rr Ce eh heal ~ ee abner purl pene ara toil aed 
art rare e eee ee iptetehubedan tr: beaut --0-O Be bah Fo Unt bette Pott et ta bel fo RetsO- 2 oe id PLP MELO Anti eal th hentai DAM AOI 
NE EAL vials ee EL DE PP HA better He Rowete i PRN eS S PP IT c heal 
wh nt rn aetee Beta aay Wit ae a sae arr ere Feet hah oh Ante De te ee EO a poke terl oh tae em oe" ets te ate at idle Matinee 
2 + nod 4  pcancde tor ede aed b- Pe tt: ; : ee ere , nfs os r. =O natn nto tha an Ri a Ot es ee ernie dated ebailetabatedeinihe Oe SebeGr Pl sb- Qumbu tal ai Hater Dn iret 
-' ied eure he 2: * 





Cen arceruntyete on pas acon re 
el Ne parses 
re e ee meaeaehen ee ~ 7 
pe pe nearey ind otto Fs hetehat sheet reba sate hie ta hi, 5 to = 


ew 
Lah Pago 


. “<7 & 

Peale 

Apres Se sor. 
“ 


Jateids }t 


: st 
sieds pee arares 
ot hdc teen Soke . « 
et tpeaaatetgeytaaetanprareeg 


toes 
4 
zt 


+> - 
Bot 
2 3% 

wes = 


as Laees 


¢ oe 


a 


ta 


7 
ww 


_ 


* 


ee Te re mag ee IS go Tae any a pa — 








REYNT! 7S HICTORICAL 
GENEALUSY VCLLECTION 


U 





Jj 


yan 
( age Be 


*» 


ry ee 
vy * ot 


pul 


> 


eee vi) io Biker 
it A # cae ie oe mi 
/ Y wT) 

) seh 





TE 


ie 











THE EASTERN SHORE 


(of Maryland) _ 


IN SONG AND STORY 


A tribute from its loyal sons and daughters 


To a pleasant Peninsula 


Edited and compiled by 
 W. C. THURSTON 
Salisbury, Mdoe y 
Nineteen hundred thirty eight 





Limited edition 


Of which this ts ING 30 6 







one MaaTeAd aH . ad 
\ {bnhahd 4) a 
YAOT2 GAA OUO? i 


: eirigusb bos enoe Inyo! 2ti mort studint Ae 
sluenias trisesslq 6 of 


$ beliqrnos bre betibs 
“woresuntt iw 
"bM ‘vada? 
irigio ytiinlt berboawel asstenil4 


~ 


; 4 


: nat x | 
Se ee Ae ie ae 
> & 


Wad SS Si . "eg Ue 
<r as Oc encarta sateen sn reel PT SOS tate, HBS» Sm ee 
ee ea cesmengr shies ee th BI A OF mene SEAN SE RE A MASP a ee 


Mase RA MENA NORE» aN ade 
cme etaneMRLNe inp WT ve 


ey Pleasant Penissula” 


; 2 3 z (Anthology) Foe 


dat Salisbury, Maryt 





_ Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2021 


https://archive.org/details/easternshoreofma0Othur 


SO eePre face 


The Shore is poetically inclined—everybody writes verse. Bartenders, babies and 
business men, none are exempt. Little children dip their pens in purple ink and write of 
sunsets on the sea. What can you do with a people like that, full of poetry and the joy 
of living? 

There is nothing to do but let them write, then assemble the material and make a 
book. Which is what we have done. It is not an unusual book, but it has been written 
for and about a most unusual place—the dear old Eastern Shore of Maryland. 

It was not designed as a textbook for students of good English, nor as an imitation 
of Carlisle or Boswell. As for commas and periods—colons and semicolons, arrange to 
suit your taste. If infinitives are split let "em alone. They are happy as they are, and 
sometimes, as you may have discovered, it pays to split em. If you don’t like the book 
write a better one. The better mousetrap is yet to be made, and the world honors the 
man who delivers the goods. 

No attempt has been made in these pages to go very deeply into the historical subject 
matter with which the Shore abounds. We have tried to picture this delightful 
section from another angle—one that we hope will be equally as interesting, and one 
which, strange to say, has been sadly neglected. 

Extensive historical research is a task far beyond our powers, and one which our 
financial resources will not allow. The history of the Eastern Shore, as a whole, is yet to 
be written; we have no desire to assume that responsibility. Nothing is more conducive 
to back-breaking labor than the persistent delving into musty files, and arranging facts and 
figures in chronological order. Incidentally, nothing offers so little in return. 

We have yet to find one volume dealing with the history of any section, State or 
county, that was not bitterly criticized questioned and contradicted, and the writer called 
all manner of names by the various street corner biographers, many of whom knew the 
Captain of the Mayflower in person. Inasmuch as a large portion of history is hearsay, 
we feel that we have had enough lambasting for one life time, without attempting at this 
late day to brave the wrath of Mrs. Jones-Jones, whose statement, by the way, flatly con- 
tradicts Mrs. Smith-Smith as to dates, events, elections, funerals, bricks from the mother 
country, and other nonessentials. 

To all places and all families that are sacrosanct, we politely lift our hat and make 
obeisance—rendering unto Caesar the things which be Caesar’s, but we never promised 
to ‘write one word of Caesar, his bridges or his barns, and there is no apology for that 
grave error, grievous as it may appear. 

The Eastern Shore is a most delightful land; the one best place, we think, in which 
to live and love and work. Many sweet singers have lifted up their voices in its praise, 
and poets have paid tribute to its loveliness in song and story. 

It is the hope of the editors that in these pages you will catch some lilt of the 
melody, and view this garden of the gods from the poetical-romantic side; leaving its 
venerable and historic monuments to bask in the sun, where they have rested comfortably 
for so many years. 


W. Ce LHURSTON, 


Page Three 


7 Bt tn 


pe 


i 


bon esided xobnonel .snov be Pt eee PEA ma 
lo atirw bae dni slqnog nt eneq todd gib anblids slid sqenaxs sre sn0a. 


yoj ort brie yxts0q Yo Hu ,suslt od ofgooq @ Minw ob uoy ons SAW ese. oa 

























n sdom bos leivsicen ot olderoeen noel idea mods x1 10d ob 8 gnision a 
vamnw nocd ead si tud dood Inuevaune ton 231 .onoh ovad ow tandw af dow 
-bnelyiel4 to nod? oaned blo web sdt—so0lq levesag teom 6 neds 
notaimiings 2g ron dleignd boog lo 2inobyte. yal doudsxa) & az bongiesh jon ais i 
a} spnens .enolosirice bas enoloo—ebonsq bag eememos tol 2A isweoll 10 shai 
bes ,216 vod) ee yqged one yodT .onole ons’ sal silge oe aevitinani 1 otees 9 
dood ois oii Ynob voy if mo’ tilge of 2y0q 9) Besoramib sed yao woy am ese 
ony monod bhow odi base ,shern od o sy at qeuseuom weed afT .ono teed & 
aboog od) avila odw: 
taydud lesmozid set otnt yiqaeb yay og oF emer — ni oben esod esd iqnratie « 
lubisdgiioh eisit swig oF ten sved oW = ahnwode syod2 ods doidw diiw 
ono bow .gamnsin as Yleups od Hiw sqod sw tnd) seo—slgne wdione aol § 
-bstoslysn elbez crrsd zed .yee of aaa 
we thidw sno bas aiswoqg ivo bao 11 deep 6 4b thasern Jmohosid 
@ joy ef slodw # a .siod@ moked of) lo yronid ofT .vrolle son Ilnw e>nuoen lebaae 
syinubaos nom 2 — diniwaeen md: sme, of nivel on oved ow ; 7 
ynigaeie baa asin peur at piviek mmasebevoey salt ancl rodel gnidend-ah q 
moto mt oil oe evsilo youiion viewasbnal asbio Isigolonmds ale 
10 41532 .coime yne to yori od? mbbw gnilesb semdov gan bad o7 307 wad os ' 
beliso tatnw of? bas .snbavoos bag bonoikoup baxisttin» cham Jon ow meld 
od? wond monty ie youm xndqergen! maw et agoingy odd yd omen tes 
Yortcorer yoga: 10.101 oq agrel cen doverenal .noensy st Yowoltycl4 Pre 
eul) 1 peviqen in Modtrw eit ofl sno wet partemdel dguens bed oved aw sedek 
ne» vlieh yew ot yd poor seodw asraleonel st to derw orl vals 
rion of) mort adend .eleroaul aansrrls aimee 2oigh of ag dstme-ciinn2. a f 
igigneersnon role bas yt ry 
oan bac sed wo ii! ylotilog aw someon ne seh eulienad Me bre enelq Ils off 
hoetnerg wo sw tud .z16ex8) od doidw aguich oft 1D aay gohsbam— 
tary 162 yyologe on zi mary bas amed ell x exgbnd sid eaenD Io now ono nw 
RIGGS "SNE Te ee aOAg Jon 2 
doidw at .doids ow only sed one SAi ; baal ivisdgilsy seam si od2 rasan’ 2 aT 
eicrg ati a esviev view qu botitarnd eIsgitte Ioveye yank. ahow bos oval — de 
 calideabalbapeietytarape- poate qt 
st to sil seme dowd Iw woy eognq s5t ai sedi evorila of} io oyod sels at al F 
asi yaivesl ;sbie sitmemortarieeq xdi mont zhoy adv do nobreg aide wore bei ? 
videnolmes beren s¥ad yodh ey me old ai rele o7 ainwnuoum snomid bag be av 


MOT2AUHT 2 .W ; ee yt . 


vortT ayed 7 pan? - prs 2h 
owt art} ‘ese oP _ Uae 


ex >. 


‘ee 


+: 
Une shor: 


mn 


Dedication 


Dedicated to the sons and daughters of the Eastern Shore, whose 


support and encouragement made possible its publication. 


If I could write as a poet shouid, 

I’d take the green of the hills; 

The waving pines of the quiet wood, 

And the musie of rippling rills; 

All these I’d weave in a verse sublime, 
With colors of the morning’s glow, 


‘Then dedicate that faltering rime 


To the dear old Eastern Shore. 


Page Four 


nornw siodé mows oct to condguel bat eaoe ods 01 hail, 


noiteullug ext aidineoy sbemn tesmayenmrosns bos noqqus™ “55 













noitooibeGs aa 


eal 


ao aly me, 
’ .biveds soq 2 84 ote Blane b 1 7 


-eitth ont Yo moot of oslas bt 

boow jslep of? to esalq paivew oAT 

.ais gatlaqis to teoms edz baA 

swiidue emery o ni senew b' oem) IA 
wols ©gulotvdt ef) 16 6loo orn i 

pray gustronth gad) otngthgh megT 

ode widen, hijo th ods of 


Z 
‘@. 4 
X 
/ 
e 
mi ; 
be * aay 
poy 
, * 


Gntroductio 


About sixteen hundred and ten, when Geerge Calvert, Baron Baltimore, visited 
Virginia as a member of the company in charge of that colonizing project, we are led 
to believe that he gave the country north of the Potomac mere than casual inspection. 
He found here a noble bay, indented with numerous, navigable streams, abounding in 
sea-food; an ideal temperate climate; ampié forests; a kind end fertile soil; and, above 
all, well disposed natives. All this mnust have deeply impressed this enterprising and 
far- sighted statesman and made him resolve to make this terrain the site of a colony of 
his own planning. Here he planned to form a society of free-holders, unhampered_ by 
crown or vatican, blessed with freedom of thought and action where life and a living 
were vouchsafed to every worthy volunteer colonist. Very fortunately, his ae ee did 
not ignore his previous valuable services for he granted Calvert his province and graci- 
ously” allowed him to write the terms of his own charter. This marked the foundation 
of Lord Baltimore’s bifurcated palatinate. 


Alfred Henry Lewis, in his Life of Theodore Rocsevelt, well describes the American 
pioneer. I quote from memory,—those who sought a new life in a new world must have 
been the very best of the people in their respective communities, who realized how they 
were hampered at home and saw no future jor their offspring. 


For the persistent and industrious, in the new world was opened a vista of oppor- 
tunity, a home of contentment, a life unharrassed by the whims of a capricious monarch 
or heartless nobility where honest worth and perseverance would guarantee a home and 
the joy and reward of effort. They foresaw, too, tne hazerds which lurked athwart an 
unknown pathway to their ambitions: shipwreck, accident, massacre, and exposure of 
their wives and bairns to bitter hardship; but brave hearts will take a chence when the 
goal marks success, and their wives added enthusiasm to the new enterprise. 


These were the men and women who cemprised the early settlers. of Maryland, and 
it did not take long for the welcoming streams, fields, and meadows of the Eastern Shore 
to become a focus of their Hiteaiant 


Thither came Huguenots from France, Or akers from England, Puritans frem 
Virginia, and Covenanters from Scotland and Nerthern Ireland. Political exiles who 
had been men of rank and distinction 1 in the old world were to find here the haven of 


liberty. 


The overwhelming passion was to own and control their own homes. We can see 
this passion predominant among their descendants to this day. Were I to select a phase 
of progress which has distinguished my own people from the Sasscfras to the Pocomoke, 
it would be the stressing of home and neignbors, and the high tribute to the man 
who has passed to the great beyond is “He was a good neighbor.” 


s 


The men on the Eastern Shore, as | know them, after a generation spent in their 
midst, are candid, plain-spoken, aftcble, and self-respecting. Its women are endowed 
with grace, charm, and natural beauty, and the matron who presides at the foot of the 
table is nice and kind, qualities which mark a beautiful cheracter. 


I have changed my skies, but my heart is still stirred with loyal devotion when I 
recall my neighbors of long ago on the Eastern Shore. 


THOMAS H. SPENCE 
October, 1936 


Page Five 


= 
4 









































ee 
. 


aout 


bomey ‘aeeielall nod wey syne oihw aot bee bontionrd assis 
bol om 2” .neajura yrivinolos sf) to ayints mi yoyo? St fo doom oi 
MOT Ie fone ) nnd? som Seraoto'l off to Aen vrinuos odd S¥ey of yee 
at yoibnueds meow slusyrean acowmen thw bornabni ,ved sidon 5s nod 
svewic bre «free afisrs} un’ ate 4 “eel sigs ‘orcmils ad Sle lnobi et 
bac gnrnqioine url) boessriqerit wits 4b oval Boro ent) UA aorta boeogail Uh 
fo ynuloo ¢ le ote oft mien eidt often of evils snid sbem bos neoeweR e 
1d tmoqrrday yoblod-omt lo won: ¢ anol up beacnudt of st ginny = 
enivil oc bae shil sodw nous ban rh: evod? Ye mrubosl dirw beteld jester w 1 
bik doawnamn 2 tid vionnunel wse¥ .inelos meinwley ydnow yisve oF Tt 
bon sonivory eid movie) beteerg od 108 esafnee sldeuley svorme aid 
ntiebevol od) boducn adT anes owe etd Io entry oh sinw oF mid 

anbelen Lacnulid znomigled & 


nxonems. od zedimesb How ulsveroed orvohboodT Yo SRD aid ci vend ‘onal b: 1 
oved xeum bhow won e¢ oi whl aa 6 idguoe ottw sepilie-=gromem mor sui. . d 
gli wod bexilen ow .stimumimoes stooge Wal mm alqerq oflt lo wad ov orld: 

pyran unk 10] mut of yer bre sero 


TOHHGO 10 Eely & Lomo «hw bhow woa ah a 2uormnbai bac ditasei279q a ae 


boot 


(ISHN twMINGk> 6.40 en ticle sels vd ¢ jocniatiod of! « Jaomuasiam lo smod & 
bas smed oc minenuy Lluew mse] bane few pened nodw vithdon walneod ¥ 
ac ecvedta beau! dowhw zbiscerl off oad eee cot} rolls to boewsn brs Yor | 
lo saumenas bne seem Jesbray dboorwael cecmitidern vials of cowering Mme 


ly stad r © sites Nive arned svind al “ihend ssid of ancicd bas eave | 
yan of? of theeudias babhe eoerweaiod bas ,22229ue thie 


te .bnelyvonl/ jo «rele ghos adp-bo svegee 2» otw oomew bre moon adi now sett 
nol’ wineedt al) io ewobem box tld zee goigaglew olyot gool s4si Joe 

frodaats tiodt bo eww 
cont) veethwd .baelynd mod erdenQ sonkYl aio HonsuyvH omnes 7 
otw vetoes leovileol clentnt ovdneA tne boelier? cnet) apmemvod 
is overt oc set bait o oraow bhee blo oft at nostenitnb bac dam jo asm 


ye aca W 2amad mao wedi losneo bone awo ot eee mony gaunladraie 4 
etry ¢ tools ot | aeW “4b zids wi uinibeowsh fod) paoine Ingniene 

adommoul sds of ent) 2ag@ oct enon} olyoog mevo en bedeigaiaih end did 
oom of) of studs dyil okt Loe 2rodigion ne seed to Yeiernte oils 


audrgivn boog s caw 3H" af bnoysd deorg oda o7 hovenq end 01 


tial) oi tog ooversnog « taals woontt wood | ee wed? mond ond) oo nom " 


bowelen ome sade ul -yrtity sqervthe bar ldsits .emlege-niely ,bibmes ae) 
sii to lool oh Ts eslore stg ow pov odd bn ‘Qucsd lerwma bor ii aw 
aissrot> julinsesd 6 shen daidve ssitileup bail bas sale 


I nodw nobovsl level itiw bertits Mise et read yon bog 
nose avotent grit ‘luau osttgiel 


- ae 


v4 


wy MM 2ANMUCMT " 
eI aslonwO mt 


oi? aged 


Acknowledgements 


For encouragement, friendly cooperation, and material assistance in many ways, we 
are deeply indebted to those whose names are here appended. In the pleasant task of 
compiling this little volume we found loyal supporters in every town on the Shore. For 
their good will and kindly interest we are stncerely grateful. 


James M. Bennett, Salisbury, Md. Mrs. Howard Melvin—Denton Journal, 
Sid Dougherty, the veteran printer of the) Denton, Md. 
Times, Salisbury, Md. Miss Merlyn Kern, Denton, Md. 


Thomas W. H. White, Jr., Salisbury, Md. Miss Elizabeth W. Dixon, Chestertown, Md. 
Miss Anne H. Matthews, State Teachers Col-|Mrs. Nell C. Westcott, Chestertown, Md. 





lege, Salisbury, Md. Burton Bostwick, Easton, Md. 
Miss Mable Waller, Salisbury, Md. William Roger Phipps. Easton, Md. 
Mrs. Ronie B. Venables, Salisbury, Md. Frank Ruth, Galena, Md. 
Miss Frances Parsons, Salisbury, Md. Vivian Carroll, Cambridge, Md. 
Elmer F. Ruark, Salisbury, Md. Mrs. Jonathan Wheatley, Cambridge, Md. 
P. Dale Wimbrow, Whaleyville, Md. Rear Admiral Thomas Holliday Hicks, Cam- 
Mrs. Clemie Hearne West, Delmar, Del. bridge, Md. 
Prof: W. N.. Willis; Delmar, Del. Robert L. Swain, Jr., Baltimore, Md. 
Mrs. Clarence L. Long, Crisfield, Md. The Bentztown Bard—The Balto. Sun, Balti- 
Mrs. Katie M. Quinn, Crisfield, Md. ° more, Md. 


We differ with the Baltimore Sun politically—consistently, strenuously and bitterly. 
We differ with it daily—-hourly and weekly. We'll probably never agree with it on 
questions of State—political economy, or who struck Billy Patterson, but we acknowledge 
with grateful appreciation their courteous permission to use anything we wanted from 
the Sun—especially the delightful poems of the Bentztown Bard. Without the Bard we 
could not have completed this book. Strength to his arm, and long may he live to sing 
the praises of the Shore, and bask in the sincere affection of its people. 


We are indebted to Miss Anne Matthews, of the faculty of the State Teachers College, 
for our title. “The Eastern Shore in Song and Story” was a phrase of her coining, but 
so aptly did it describe our collection of Eastern Shore poems and other tributes to this 
section, we appropriated it to our own use without permission or apology. Having since 
made our peace with Miss Matthews, all is forgiven and there'll be no action at law. 


For some of the bad poetry in this book we make no apologies. In fact we are 
rather proud of it. It took skill of a very high order to maim, twist, turn and pervert 
the King’s English as a few of our contributors have done. However, to those who wrote 
the bad poetry, it was a great accomplishment, and who are we to criticise or change 
their lines; With reference to our own effusions, they might exclaim “physician, heal 
thyself.” 

EDITOR. 


Page Six 














ee . 
oy pithy a 
c hal | = 7 oe 
pron: wav 
: saul atte i ¢.% 
. ae § A et. io 
) | ON 
AL NOMIBDAWONPD a 
ow ayew yoann At sancRieee. Inivom bas s0derqo09 bn vd iets Be cuant E 
Jo dert ingens oris-al.bsbaaqqe saad 216 agen [20m fy on baniotent 
204 mod2 ods no nwod Tey? oF manegque Ingal bauot ow Ba, fai > 


dudoterg yloroume 218 2 OSE 


Jenwol soias—civiolh biewoH walk bM 
bi wore 4 lo winhg Ae 


bi soe .ro aghslt 2h af aaa ; 
KA nwoteresd) coi] Wi dtedasilt seit. bM -codeile? , aaah 
hI nwormred) .onReW Oui el-teD> nedaneT i 

bM. cored abiweed none 
bM comes 2qqidl 1907 nally 

bIL sealsO aot Ant 

bM .saberdmad lomnsD asivi¥ 

bM .sabodmcl elicen'H natlisnot 21¢, 

nk) wat ysbulloH ecmodT tetmbA 709) 

bM stilted al ninwe .i nedell 

ine8 «ue oiled of T bred nwormued sdT 
5 bit som 





whond bar tleouanie: ,ybastiznos—yleauilog ny2 vromiilel od? drew ISR SE ) 
ivien tdedewy WoW .uldoow bie vhuod—yich ff thiw whl 
ey Gh Aowtts orfw 10 jcerema lorlog—s1e0@ bo ned 
mont fotlnew sw gairzgne 220 Gf Morris ties Val) sousmanqqe ae 
wotu¥/ ine awostnoll oft do amen iwtirigieb adi yblerag 
yar oF svi ait ye ynol bem run zifl of dryaowe alyord aus boislqniaa he! 

io nore: srsante sth a deed baw ord ot jo eae 


Ho dive sage 
sghotwond.e 24 fod 0 


sve based or! 


SiOx i 


ht A A PA AD 


sqalloD arsdoesT 20892 oes Jo qilaaeh ott lo anal! onnk 

tod yt a> rol jo woeily & cue “yrole bas yaad ni 70 : : At” hai 
sid: of estudio sadio has emmoq unde urmct lo valley odin at bib: 
ae gaivell .~goleqe to gometnray wor tie su nero wi ut ii be woiqgys 
‘weil 1 noite on od Ifoxeds bas aaigiod 2 te vem baci tf w 39 : 

; qh ow 

i] 

> "> — a ae 


; oe : 
me ow sot al saryokans on aitain 94 ond sid ot seen, bed 8 IR 
avrg bs nid sya ene OF aabio_dyid air 6 I ds i 1. hk 
sorw ody sods of 7779 noli .onob oval motudnanas we to & - tril, 


a ; 
+8 )* aT 4 ¢ i a Wa 

symeds to siwitD OF sw 28 ore bac Jtopadiiqnoie troy 6 eR At a bs 1 
jeod .aeiviegdqg” misled agent pi zaneulie NWO WO OF Jor jen: 


ACTION 





Je 
J 
4 


x 


ist of Contributors 


The following contributors have had a hand in shaping the contents of this volume. 


herein good poetry and bad nestle side by 
your editor wrote some of it himself. 


each. The term “bad” is used advisedly— 


But, dear reader, in the reading thereof if you find 


your nose taking an upward turn, weight it down with modesty until you can find a 
pen and scribble your own version of what is good. 
When you have finished the perfect rhyme, measured the stanzas and counted the 


beats, your ego will shrink and your nose 


will function as before. These contributors 


have given you their best, read what you like and be chary of your criticism. No poem 
or prose selection, however crude, that sings the praises of the Eastern Shore can be 


wholly bad. 


Thomas Humphrey Spence, College Park, Md. 

Robert L. Swain, Jr., Baltimore, Md. 

Marjorie C. Wright, Hebron, Md. 

P. Dale Wimbrow, Whaleyville, Md. 

Lucy Meachem Thruston, Baltimore, Md. 

Maria Louise Ellegood, Salisbury, Md. 

Sara Spencer Roe, Sudlersville, Md. 

Lorena J. Hitch, Portsmouth, Va. 

Imogene Caruthers, Salisbury, Md. 

Nell C. Westcott, Chestertown, Md. 

Elsie Rebinson, Courtesy—Balto. News Post. 

Alexander A. Piper, Weaverville, N. C. 
(Formerly of Mardela) 

Marie L. Sherwood, New Orleans, La. 

Margaret Perry, Easton, Pa. 

Lyndon Hess, Upper Fairmount, Md. 

Grace Davis Vanamee, New York, N. Y. 

Jimmie Snow, Salisbury, Md. 

Ethel R. Raney, Salisbury, Md. 

Myrtle Jackson, Parsonsburg, Md. 

Lillian Watson, Salisbury, Md. 

Rosalind Messick, Hebron High School. 

Mary Davis Todd, Fort Brown, Texas. 

William N. Willis, Delmar, Md. 

Wilson M. Tylor, Easton, Md. 

Dr. George W. Jarman, Princess Anne, Md. 

Lynn Perry, Easton, Md. 

A. Everett Williams, Salisbury, Md. 

Ruth Eloise Downing, Salisbury, Md. 

Mabel Eugenia Waller, Salisbury, Md. 

Thomas W. H. White, Sr.. Salisbury, Md. 

Thomas W. H. White, Jr., Salisbury, Md. 

Nathan Cherry. Salisbury, Md. 

Hazel Elliott, Salisbury, Md. 

Margaret Black, Salisbury, Md. 

Lawrence Freeney, State Teachers College. 

Evelyn Vincent, Salisbury, Md. 

S. Kerr Slemons, Delmar, Delaware. 

Ronie B. Venables, Salisbury, Md. 

Clarence L. Peasley, Williamsport, Pa. 

Salisbury Times, Selection. 

Charles A. Hearne, Jr., Salisbury, Md. 

Lin Allen, Connellsville, Pa. 

Rev. J. W. Wootten, Pocomoke City, Md. 

Edna Bentley Hancock. Pocomoke City, Md. 

Jeff Milbourn, Baltimore, Md. ° 

Katherine Powell, Pocomoke City, Md.’ 

Mrs. Richard L. Heward, Snow Hill, Md. _ 

Marylander & Herald, Princess Anne, Med: 
(selected) ; 

Mrs. J. F. Somers, Crisfield, Md. 
(contributed) 


ia 


Elmer F. Ruark, Salisbury, Md. 

L. P.. Bowen, D.. D., Berlin, Md. 

Katie M. Quinn, Crisfield, Md. 

David L. Quinn, Crisfield, Md. 

Rev. Roland Nelson, Crisfield, Md. 

Steve Ward, Crisfield, Md. 

Joseph McGrath, Crisfield, Md. 

John S. Holland, Crisfield, Md. 
(Courtesy Crisfield Times) 

Plain Bill Simpson, Philadelphia, Tenn. 

Sarah J. Whittington, 

Rev. Edgar T. Read, Fawn Grove, Pa. 

William Roger Phipps, Easton, Md. 

William Bromwell, Trappe, Md. 

Howard Hammond, Royal Oak, Md. 

b.2M:. GC. Easton, Md. 

Easton Star Democrat. (selected) 

Mrs. Joseph B. Seth, Easton, Md. 

Lewis M. Cross, Greensboro, Md. 

History of Caroline County, Selection. 

Mrs. Mahlor Stanley, Chesapeake City, Md. 

Orvilla Adele Gilpin, Elkton, Md. 

Clemie Hearne West, Delmar, Del. 

Edward Snead, Cambridge, Md. 

F. Arthur Laskowski, Cambridge, Md. 

“Gath” George Alfred Townsend, 

Amelia B. Welby, St. Michaels, Md. 

Queenstown News, Queenstown, Md. 

Madeline L- de Fries Dion, Federalsburg, Md. 

Frank Ruth, Galena, Md. 

James A. Higgins, Vienna, Md. 

S. R. Henry, Mardela, Md. 

Glen Campbell, Salisbury, Md. 

Mrs. E. A. Archer-burton, Salisbury, Md. 

Mrs. Samuel Schoenfeld, Salisbury, Md. 

Norris Watson, Salisbury, Md. 

Eastern Shore Nurseries, Easton, Md. 
Selected. 

Joycelyn Branham, Chestertown, Md. 

Mrs. Lucy Cutright, Berlin. Md. 

Laura Melvin, Denton, Md. 

Caroline Redden, Denton. Md. 

Merlyn Kern, Denton, Md. 

W. S. Crouse, Denton, Md. 

Josephine Barry, Denton, Md. 

Mrs. H. F. Ramsdell, Denton, Md. 

L. M. Kaplan, Salisbury, Md. 

George FE. Kennerly. Salisbury, Md. 

The Bentztown Bard, Baltimore, Md. 

W. C. Thurston, Salisbury, Md. 

W. Alford Boggs, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Lillian Bard, Lancaster, Pa. 


Page Seven 












































































coh As | 
is “ uy 


oecuilor aids 26 emnateor 5d) griqnde ab i bacd'e bad sved been 
dbsavbs bez et “bed” mist sfT sions sl obie olen ager 
baa woy li toad) gniben ol) oi best yesh gol Alissa 936 Shoe 
& Gari nus voy lunw yebom diw owob titdyiew mut brew no geile mom: 

.boog 2 tadw lo sovmer mao woy ohidiee bee 

sit batnuosa bos zesnete sry Usu2eorm myn elie uh dodzindt: sverl not wie 

* comdninos sail ols! cc nononut Miw son MI bac Anivde tive og? oe 
mooq eV! meiviinn woy lo yes odebne adil uoy sedw ben Jed tier) ver movie 

x) moo viod2 monet oll lo aimq edi tyeie yods chur wvewed noise 

‘ bad 

. 62 Aveu 7 sot bt aint systloD. song endgranl | 


siive8 1 CG neve! 9 2) LM  somith’d tb niswe J vod 
bit bist) nnivO A sled 5M novisH ThahW 3 sina 
bi dledai) 4 mnie | hive bM olfivvsladW .woadiniV/ sieG Ts 
bM + ls4 bation .vsh BM aromiticd te steal F muons, tm 
bM bleh bull geste bit soudeite2 ,\beogsllid seivet 
hit bis >. liars Madera]  bM olliverstbue son me 
bM bls bnallaH 2 adof AY siivermnod gad 14 
ami fei woh) bi .oudeis? 2rd? s 
not sidqtsialilt qe (ha aint b34 imotrstesd> nove OT 
it | ier? eel ees oylell-- catia) omnis Sie 
9 sve nwel best .T ve . 9A stir W osqt .A whan 
Moan 1 rani vag ¢ di (sluice Yo viene 
bM. ane nora pig f g.J angshO wor pee J nn 
le { brnwol! cl ore] one Ieee 
| bIA umvormind aq azesht bag. 
2 aoe ( Vi atoY wat sonmansV eve ae 
yen! 2th hit vruceile? Mone oleantt 
) WN aw bi wwdele? vans dt 
bi¥ 64 .anedas 
/ fy ine foric’ 
) lett? Agi natdoH donee DA 
oninstt alewsid anaot cvrantl 10} haly oT zivel 0 Dh 
heen? by oT bM .weniet]) elhi'W A oi 
’ : : 1H) if : ni Ui notwes4 ioleT A 1s hd 
bat tf A sot) “de” BA sank seca ween! |W ™ ; 
Wo azbseddil 1 vdisW & aifemas bi nome saw ave 
b ; ’ ; terre) hlA .vierlsi or emcilli VW tare? 
ic] | ob .t onilohel’, bM viuedeils? sninwo) sel ay ir 
« < f a Por ; bd (it rivet) of 629i te “ cononed: fs 4“ 
anei/ eni | A etna LW rwdsilce ..12 lth 4 OW epee 
DIA clohreltA vine WA Sih vsyedeilne al stidW s ascnodT 
bM 'o2@ iedaragD aslo bM sweeile? Ay / 
viurizilead wanliued-rads A A 23 volt bth eredeil i 
bit vuwedeite® bletnorutis? lsanmae off bM wt udeilae : 
bM .\viudsile? oe amo = saslint) mrsfoneT stele ven 1 x 
bY. owotesd sneer sve? nveiead hilé wurdeilee ‘tnssal'? w + : 
borosiae smewelsQ jambG snemelé not J 
bid tyotea') medaerd avlevsal ble wrardaitn? vadenge a ‘sin 
be ‘nihse wiaivius)> vou) ff | TN ee ont si 
b a He io) .nbviolA ete 2 sibvels ; it re tech 
bit 9 umibiest enilown bM soudeitee ol anes 
P a bl ‘nese ned myvheaty, nd 2 ik arial Pa 
bM etm sued @ WW bi wid sdomeel pe 2 si 


iM pom 96d saliqwel ube vid eet sone! alin neabe 
OM. .cognaC) Slatstrnest oT Lb avd ovaenined ace 
bit vindetle? melgn® 1 Li id ee ae 

hl vudeile? vivanagpl 61 see) Ll? win won? Sew Me nae 
hi, stoma toed wevontnel afT  b 5 wml, nears ‘hho a 
a ade aol broth, Wt 

59 sttqlshe ae 0 
Toremnel joel atid - — 


roti a  en _ | 





_ Gastern Shore 


DOWN ON THE EASTERN SHO’. | 


Where hearts are kind and-friends are true— 
Where the latchstring hangs outside for you, 
Down on the Eastern Sho’. 


Where the best of life and joy and mirth 
Are found in the finest towns on earth— 
Down on the Hastern Sho’. 


Where the old are voung and the young are fair, 
Where gloom’s unknown and grief is rare— 
Down on the Eastern Sho’. 


Where the doors are open to all who’ll come, 
And take if they will—a place in the sun, 
' Down on the Eastern Sho’. 
Where the sign reads, ‘‘ Welcome,’’ on every door; 
Where plenty abounds and none are poor— 
Down on the Eastern Sho’. | 


Where Work meets Laughter with jest and song, 
And opportunity mingles with the passing throng— 
Down on the Eastern Sho’. 


Where the march of progress the long day thru 
Is calling ‘‘come,’’ ves, calling vou 
Down on the Eastern Sho’. 


To a land so fair—so richly blest, 
That the wide world owns it is still the best— 
Down on the Hastern Sho’. 


Where hearts are kind and friends are true— 
Where the latchstring hanes outside for you, 
Down on the astern Sho’. 


W. GeTHuRSTON. 


Page Eight 




























¥ » 7 


of 


nt ee 
i tad Qs 
SONG MIB 
OHA ZWATAAM ANT 10 7YPOR 


A - : 
7 


— 
we - _ 
ont ate ebnort) bie bail osmatrnodl vod WT, - 
nov sot obieino eae gairialotabodlt evo 
f2 «totes oll 00 avo 


OU 


disiat ban ot fein til to teed oft grolW 


“line fo eirwot jaontt off nt Heol atA 


? v9 “ Tt 
‘od4 wiotasd ol ao wwoU . AD 


ov allt ban wives o1n blo oll sro 
21 Wire bern wvowdan a moolkg 91h 


Ona mien olf ao awod 


or? iF ipo wth #'T oh oftorlT 


alee a—llie gol? Ti one bat 


ao *’ steele 1 ahve aye trate oft iol 
wa ebowxla gitolq 19 


‘ 4 7 = 
2 bre : aie it "* yi rer : a osc sit Wil yor Ww » 
—onordd weciseng ohh thw vobeuiat eine) oqqo bok. 
‘af mpeten’t oft ao tet] rt 


vitof att -avrgon) to terqnrentt o1ohe 
sot gnitler jenre *" gatoo** urttlino al 


‘of otesA wh mo well a 


ra 
a gp) 


Jjaold vito oe—rint on hunt wot Ay 
rood odd Hida ei ti ceca bhiow ohive ot Ya 
‘ole wroten oft 0 wed 


wie Mer owt 
- 


‘ Sa@ 7 

_opet) orn aba? bun brid om abiied orl 
u07 tot obieluo egutntl wititiedotal ait gral e 
“old wvatentl oft no wwol ‘pate 


> 


5 
, attain 





“ores aT YY UW 


Gastern Shore—-Continued 


A DISCOVERY 


Distance lends enchantment, and men fare forth for adventure. But one need not 
travel far on a voyage of discovery. A little journey thru the sunlit lands of the Eastern 
Shore was a great adventure. Around and about us are undiscovered beauties—acres 
of diamonds in our backyard, and always a kuman interest story. 


Across the street is tragedy—darker than any Shakespeare ever pictured. Around 
the corner is adventure stranger than a tale from the Arabian Nights. 


Aroused from my lethargy, I realized that my own town was an unexplored world. 
The people of the Shore were strange people because I had not taken the trouble to know 
them. I had neglected to learn the language they speak—and interpret the longings of 
their souls; thus I began my voyage of discovery. 


These are my people; I exclaimed, Their sorrows and joys ore mine—their hopes 
and fears, and their ambitions, are all mine. We are one in spirit—one in that touch of 
sympathy that makes all men kin. The injunction to “Love thy neighbor as thyself,” 
means that you should know him as well. And in the knowing you will find much to 
love and little to hate. 


The greatest adventure of all time was the three years’ ministry of Him who was 
born in Bethlehem of Judea. The darkest tragedy of all history was His crucifixion on 
Calvary. But when His life is understood, and we learn to put into our everyday lives 
the eternal truths He taught—then will Golgotha’s hill heve become the beacon light of 
the world. * 


The Man of Sorrows ministered to men and healed them because He loved them. 
He loved them because He learned to know them. With Him the great adventure was 
found not far from the manger that cradled His baby form. The great Tragedy was 
enacted only a few miles from the shop where he had toiled with His father as a Car- 


penter. 


With these thoughts in mind, I determined to gird up my loins and seek adventure 
at home. I did not find acres of diamonds, but I found the soul and heart of a people 
among whom I live. In touching hands with my neighbors, in breaking bread with my 
fellowman, I learned that “Whatsoever ye seek that also shall ye find.” I found the 
good and true; even the spirit of the Christ, indwelling in the hearts of His followers. 


I found love and kindness —fellowship and good cheer. I found warm. hearts 
ministering to the weak. I found much good and little bad. I found a people strug- 
gling upward to the light. I found earnest teachers and loving mothers. I found in- 
dustrial activity. I found progress—cooperation, and Christian fellowship. I discovered 


the Eastern Shore. 
EDITOR. 


Page Nine 









2 wv \ we - ; ai a a 
’ rr 
howntsnoSebeyeaes 


YATVOIACG A 


ton besa ono 108 pee wl dinot ne) gent bene Jerenaevattana thin 9 hae « 

mates’ oli do zbnel ica od ands genie oinll A yvosibed 

imon—eniead broveriban, sraceu. iuoda ban bauok 4 eae 
ok waetal ered eo eyowln hoe begdond Ve oT 


brave, .bawtiq va seqeadad2 yoe pudt waleb— (loge apm B 
; tiie a 





dpi anideaA ods ernt olen c ead vagamie 


ybhow bmolqyaai aa ww newer ao ven Saul tasiinn | -rarechtal qm erent 
word of shine sé ander mn bed ) sco! algoug ognews si90 sede aren 
to eyniynol ah ompsint bac—desg? cont vgeugael oft mesl a 
F Yvorxibh lo aynyor qt naged 

eoqod tisdit—spum ay ego, bar 2wone wedT -bominlezs | lq Go oe 
to divert tot ai sto~—sniae ot no 2 SW onion Te ne 2ootihus vied) fae 
“Yoevd: ec coddeion vd? oval” of naimnujat sAT .oid nom Me open sold 9 
«) deur: bad iw uoy netword sh pt bad llow an aad word bleasds i jen 

med at vl 
















enw odw mili to vitetinim ‘yi ov ocr) of: euw oot He bo stuypterrebe ROA IY AT 
no fexnibun «H anw wow Ils In eboeen tatrch odT weobol to eveeolelioll f 
aovil yebyiove two of? tq of we) ow her .boomwebaw 2 oi) al nv so8f 1 
lo tips coated ods omoow! sect Mid @edioglod: Mw ost-—tdygues oH eden leet 


mats bovol oH seucood mods Yeltet bne on of bovinim srono2 Jo nab atF, 
tow unaovbs tens wh mio hiW ure wond of lame! oh named B® 

ow vboyerT seng of T ted yliel aiff folie tors weee sc) mod scl teat-6 
“1k oem vorlte) ei drive holes bad sdf arse qorde ot mont elim wel dm bo 


‘uinovbe dove bee 2cie! yra qu brig af bemenetb T bain mi atedguinty 
siqecq « to new! ben deo’ oft Load (wil bnomeib joes bad me 


yr doce bead anidiod ni sediigion yn divw ebned ps al it iy 
wt bavot I “.bast oy Nade oele sedi dos ov tarc0eed WW" suds 


arsvollol 2iH to ened olf nt gaillowbai Send dy Yo tip ais nore wt bre bo 
oneod ont brut Evel hoog bar sate comb | beth srt ae 


‘yume skyooq « bavel T bed alvil ban. boog si r hyo 
<i bawet | - 2redion yaton| ban erwtons- 5; 5) ! ‘alle 4 
lersvowib | .qitewulist nein ber a iat $1 


AOTIOSN 


oy. 





onikt aged ge 


Saste rr Shore ———Continued 


THE SHORE—I!TS HERITAGE 


Upon the banks of the Chesapeake, comprising one of the rost delightfully unique 
sections of our country, lies Maryland’s Eastern Shere, universally admired as the jewel 
of the State. Full of glamour and rich in legends, aiundantly endowed by nature, the 
history of the Eastern Shore is one long epic, Its story is filled with stirring and fasci- 
nating incidents. There is something vital about its proud traditions and this something 
never fails to impress all who come from far and near to see this zarden spot for them- 
selves. - 

It is this background of legends and traditions which gives the Eastern Shore such 
_ @ warm place in the minds and hearts of all who know it. There js something stirring 
in the pageantry of its past. No section of America has been more true to basic American 
principles and ideals. Its influence has, indeed, been borne by the tides to other shores; 
its prestige has patterned the thought and action of other peoples; its tradition has been 
in touch with the most profound movements from which our national life has come. 

The early beginnings of the Eastern Shore are intermingled with the life and work 
of one of the most notable characters of Colonial history, the first Lord Baltimore. 
Created a Baron in the Irish peerage, Cecilius Calvert wrung from the King a grant of 
land in America to fulfill his dream, an ambition to found an haven for religious free- 
dom; an ambition that was greater in an age when hatreds vied with hatreds in prosecut- 
ing human rights. A colony to tolerate faiths, no matter what the circumstances, was 
plain fanaticism—nevertheless, it was made the basic plan of a strong man. 

To be exact, as one should, the heritage of the Shore goes way back to 1623 when 
“Kentish Isle” was coveted by Captain Claiborne as a parcel of the neighboring Colony 
of Virginia. And it was the unfurling of the orange and black banner at St. Mary’s 
City in 1634 that heralded the growth of the Eastern Shore. 

The small band of Governor Leonard Calvert, with self-sacrificial devotion, the 
soundest brand of courage, the most human of man’s instincts—that of adding to the 
happiness of mankind—risked limb and fortune that the convictions of Lord Baltimore 
may be given life and vigor in Maryland. The ideals of the State, born in Mother 
England, cradled in Southern Maryland, and nourished on the Eastern Shore, are seen 
as the roots of the State from which have grown institutions, true to the fundamentals of 
liberty and to the traditions of America. 

The destinies of the Colony in their hands, the pioneers of Maryland, alive to the 
advantages of the Eastern Shore over mosquito-ridden St. Mary’s, veered to the outlying 
regions courageously but earnestly, all the while sowing behind them the seeds of free- 
dom of conscience as they planned for the years ahead, each sharing in the civilizing 
scheme, and each doing his best toward the creating of a new land in the wilderness. 
The Shore was to them—the blazers of Maryland—rich in opportunity and quiet in the 
ways of peace. : 

Starting with Kent in 1642, county after county quickly took shape. Talbot in 
1662, Somerset 1666, Dorchester 1669, Cecil 1674, Queen Anne’s 1706, Worchester 1742, 
Caroline 1773, and ending with Wicomico as late as 1867. Here and there settlements 
and towns sprang up, conferring practical benefits upon all. Deep Point on Manokin 
River 1668, New Yarmouth upon the banks of Gray’s Inn Creek 1675, and Canterbury 
in Kent county 1684. Their places were, in the space of time, taken up by Chestertown 
on the Chester River, Cambridge on the Choptank, Crisheld on Tangier Sound, Easton 
at the head of the Tred Avon, to be climaxed with the founding of Salisbury in 1732 
as the metropolis of the Eastern Shore. ; 

The labor of years was transformed from challenges to triumphs, from achieve- 
ments to progress and by 1682 the charm of the British Isles was captured with amazing 
faithfulness on the Shore in form of manors and farms, some spacious and some primitive. 
Woodlawn, Cherry Grove and Bohemia Manor in Cecil; Huntingfeld, Wickcliffe and 


Page Ten 






it fe pay e 


a) 


Pr | ar 




















































a 
on re 
hound 





~ + 


ies : , 
iat, ease, ee, A 
AOa TINIAN 2TI—AROH? FE e (OU amas 

“ebluiaines silence’? wile eined oi cog 

supina yHettigileh teart ols to any peurqinea- oa wager st Yo eine! eta 
lows ods 26 feontanlon qihee sedi aril mand Phortaralé vail | 
ot wisn yd bswobns vliceledds aba Rigor bax wcdr f 
inert ns goinsite doe hollft e: te, el nie grat a0 & TRE S sd ‘ 
att hae ecoliten bade imetie [pee gerviiernon a nol atob 


én) o0° 69 veo GAG wl met owen od iis eeaaqert of abimd W 


yhiclrocen 

madi tol soya nohny . 

lous vrod@ avons] ont exeky dotdw amaiibey hne ebisygs! bo re as vids aa” 
ww 


yeti gnidiwrus 4 ott pod ofw ile %6 ented bre atom : 3 aoxlq bbe 
wu now asstemb one sole of weg el io aergs 


we : i - | 4 hin ont ved setgel woot bodhnt zat route: 2d] inky brie esiqh 
09 i da a1 oii :eeinoxy Torito. 9 uriien bee Wooo oft boaraiveg and oye air 
» ond slit Taseten tuo datdw fon Sasmevom bauocteny om ods ity duuson mit 
Jury boc ov) ody iw Uslqaainsial se sade womnd ob io «yninamad yivee af 7 
cH fal wed oh ,vrorid lemon to. eames ideson mor ht io one lo 
F ii ou gauTu node 20itne) Qe] fT ot mi nod £ "Ts 
ooved ne bawel o} neritiers mh of gal +f Alut of nia. a 34) 
} no { fern vv zboasael wor Bi 0 i UWAOTH ty rH) nuredons NR 7A Le 
m SoTL ) tothe vera of ziltiet qaaies o ‘ dgtt comud got 
; te & to nelly -gietal odd oboe enw ti ,azdiorire naeidusdel a iq 
mn j iy | eine odt .b'votle 279 2m JORRD ad oT 
wn ; if 12 () amignJ Latves vow “Sl divs 


ae 4 docld ‘ener oft to aniinind off aw a bnA Se 


oi ott Jo dren adi boblinsd vide POE a 
TP bew .ov1kD ben “Mimeven) do | Home ofT 7 
; » Jord : T ? Io <hern ' ) JRO : beer teh i at 
ish ba YS; yun! tan 4 saan m to vwrqqen- 
}/ wie 4 ; ianhvrnly wiv Dr } rsvig od yo 
el odd fo bodeit tas ewlytnM arsed | lous bashonih 
> > avert duulw ened 2232 ot lo B0et dee. 
giteid. to enoviben wh @ bn yee 
“4 | / moon 20) .zbasa! werh o walk} arty Ye sinitenb iw . 
Tf wt 42 Li-ativowln we wolé areed of} Te erga 
; aly at 1 bre npvoe oleh } theo tu] qlewaoee revo 
guiviivia oda ot gauide sono Dag 01 bennwly ¢oee en cotiene ae on 
seorebliw ola wu been! Ae WW windy > yh bowen teed eal ynoh fons bent aris 


aly fi ap brag viited niyo ot flan lens, ncls te memeld oily iow! of ew seni v4 
orien te 
ai diel conde doo yhbbiup yvanuos Tin ytiwo Sl ai sno cit 
anon rw hac neH 46) an selae ovitt@i/ dite ynibqo bee AW on or 
nigensM vo sai qo ls avqu eilened leviiag yoinslnws qu once evo Tm 
yweshotas) bas ,eVal dao nal aun? ty AF woe dinate’ wa, Boat y 
vohnened® vd qu node: .grtis to soege sic einig tiodT Ob gis a 308 Ad 
eat janet rsigniT ao hi WAD teasqod? oni noe opbodlieD aol voter 1 ao 
: ar nhudele® Yo gribnan) ss cliew boxes of a work, bail oft to bani oh 
7 ved2 crienti ods lo erry 
visite met ydgmuits «et exynsllath cml Lorene eaw mea Wo. todel ¢ 
garseni. ditvw barnes sow rolel Avil oft to reeds orly SAAT yl hee weorgeney on aunie 
viinng amor bos even seo cancel bas oniia ie eel a edd oly ve eseludeliiy 
bee oBibdaW ,bligaimvH jfoeD mi roa cintadell hos sve? esol awiihon 
- . : ‘? 
_ > 7 - a: i 7 x i : 


= a - 



























aie 





Continued 


Gastern Shore 


Stephney in Kent,. Wye Heights, Ratclifle Manor, and The Anchorage in Talbot; 
Warwick Fort Manor, Rehoboth and Weston in Dorchester; The Hermitage, Coursey’s 
Neck and Chester-on-Wye in Queen Anne’s; Frazier’s Flats House, Richardson’s Folly, 
and Skellington’s Right in Caroline; Clifton, Beckford and Revel’s Grove in Somerset; 
Cherry Hill, Pemberton Hall and Handy Hall in Wicomico, and Ingleside, Ivy Hill and 
Beverly in Worchester. Parishes were laid out and churches erected, the image of the 
ivy-covered churches of rural England, peaceful as a scene from Gray’s immortal “Elegy 
in a Country Churchyard.” St. Paul’s and Shrewsbury in Kent, 1692; Old White Marsh 
Church in Talbot, 1658; Trinity Church in Dorchester, 1680; Old Green Hill Church in 
Wicomico, 1733; Rehoboth Church in Somerset, 1706; All Hallows Church in Worchester, 
1739; Frazier’s Chapel in Caroline; and, St. Stephen’s Church in Cecil, 1692. 

As the years sped on, as the Shore became great in numbers, grew in wealth and 
gained training in political acumen, as it began to divert more of its zeal to the building 
of Maryland, the settlers of the new generation, one by one, were thrown into a struggle 
with the forces of the day—not with practical aims but between the immediate and remote 
aims; and those who overcame them were thrust with the mantle of leadership. Kent 
produced Ringgolds and Wickes’, Talbot the Tilghmans and Lloyds; Dorchester the 
Goldsboroughs and Murrays; Queen Anne’s the Wrights and Emorys; Somerset the Chases 
and Waters; Caroline the Hardcastles and Potters; Cecil the Veazeys and Hollingsworths; 
Worchester the Decaturs and Dennises; and Wicomico the Handys and Gunbys. From 
meadowlands, villages, and the quiet cloisters of plantations went forth these men to 
heed the call of life, to the Halls of Congress, to the fields of battle, to the blackrobed 
judiciary, entrusted with problems, to guide and counsel America through stress and 
storm, and placing liberty above life itself. Not only were they Shoremen but the archi- 
tects of the State as well as the builders of the nation. Here they laid the social and 
economic foundations and constructed the political fiber of the State. Here they nailed 
down for posterity in the structure of Maryland the principles of Lord Baltimore, which 
are as immortal as they were yesterday. 

Just so far as changes, vast and far-reaching, transformed the Eastern Shore uncon- 
sciously and consciously to a land flourishing with culture and prosperity that reached 
above the necessities of life, and just so far as these changes worked great impetus upon 
the setup of the country and the well-being of others, the Eastern Shore dedicated itself 
to the enrichment of the American civilization. 

From Kent Free School in Chestertown, rose Washington College in 1782, proud 
of the distinction as the oldest institution of higher learning in Maryland and the eleventh 
oldest in the United States. Far in the woods of Cecil, within view of the Susquehanna, 
under the hand of Samuel Finley, D. D., grew in 1741 America’s oldest preparatory 
school, West Nottingham Academy. 

Before the Revolution reared its head against the tyranny of the Mother country, the 
Eastern Shore was more English than England, gay and merry; but down deeper, its 
impulsive force was behind the march for a new order, and its elastic qualities in the 
fight to conserve and protect the integrity of democratic institutions, and to contribute 
to the betterment of America that other Americas might grow. 

The Eastern Shore is a legend that stirs every true Marylander, wherever he may 
be on the face of the earth; not because the State once depended on the virility of the 
Shore, but because it was the blood of its men that baptized Maryland with freedom and 
the pursuit of happiness. 

Keep unsullied the inspiring, if not inspired, heritage of the Eastern Shore, keep 
alive its glories today and for tomorrow, and perpetuate tor generations yet to come all 
that the Shore was meant to be. 

—ROBERT L. SWAIN, JR. 

From the Shoreman— 

Courtesy of Chestertown Enterprise. 


Page Eleven 













































JodleT nv opsroroad. sfT be aon ollie deb a. ” 
ewe. »yetiteH sfT -yeteadatoh ami woraW bac doled somtt nod ¥ TAL 
Wot caotrebih enokt ell p'sotert g’eagh aseu() a TEST > one") 
Heerswmoe ni gro e‘fveA bre brotilssll worl’) :oniloi) nb tik “cote dz 
bre WH yv) jsbiealgal bne .oienesi VW? at Melt ybachi bas lett worradcery hadi 
od! to oyemi oni heer eorlvuds bas wo biel av sdaneT one ai ehorett 
vgola” ferornent ym mond ope 6 46 hited ,basignd Jew bo esdryd a 
feos anil DO sf08l- ans ni yuideooté bad elyct™s Be wage oh 4s 
at oud Int aso bIO 0801 gonadal ai doaud:) yiini't (REM soll hr 
wakatinoW ni dowd ewalleH ILA OTE seemed nt dud? didodod :£6T% or HOD 
001 les ai dad geedqatd 22 bine ponilouwl) ai loqadD vosevt RENE 
baw liv a wng erdinua ni mony omeed mode sls 26 no tore ereoy oly ~~ 
goibliud ont o7 leas 21 lo nom navib at angenl Hi an ose e leressioey wh scours vont 
wggie & ote: awed vow sno vd ane oMeRnsg, wan ods ig axsliszendls, 
sioret bee siiboruni si rosatod sod genie inoitonee ttiw 109—eeb set ip eased sat we 
mA .gutlersbesl to shina sth Aiew daunde aay mtls orumsieeo oder. ead bast is 
of redo] cebyoll bir ensendghtt. ads todleT esdoiW/. pas ciloyyaidl - banuboy 
end) orl terenied :eyiom” bun atgnW of 2'onnk pseu sever bale nm 
arinowepnillol! bas evexesS s4 lizx) ses900C ban zolteiobickd od? sallow? ee 
mort ede) bas eybest! oft epimastW ban capenat) hoe occ) oflpae 10 
ws Sew hol Inve enciemizlg to avateiols Inup wl» bur .2syeiliv athe at 
bomassld st) of .olited to cilod ant on aeaunoc) Jo-alleH ov) on stil Ie Nay ade 
ban wove dqueid mines: league bas shiey of versidonn rin bonuses yee ti 
ine of! tod aon wl? vad) now (ino 104 . teen sti) szede ginsdil yonale baw a 
bat leisoe alt biel vod) maki .coinn sep loowrshtiod ot ee llow es 21602 ot to foe” 
atten cult stl .o12 act Io ide Iesitilag sly betoyemsion bas 2nciehnged of 
verb snontiiled tial to esiyisning adt brehosl te surmise ooh ci Cirraseoqy tol aw 
gelaersy sw pods ec lenomeni se 
nox mod? mored oft boolean goideen bas wey wogned> ae val on ee 
berianoy niet yitiogzmd bag mules dieu yoirknuoll bael e o: yeuoiznas bag one 
nope entonint testy Ladiow zagae> seul) 26 geh.oe sae} bao abil to adizionsaan oly . 
lisesi toroibeb node aisied od) zvoc In ystiodliow adi bee (ingoo oth to qusce” ’ 
4 . af 





s 
B 4 
o> 


ae 


novestien cxmanemA aly to inom 
beam) SEV) of spslia> notyaitinW oset ,avanoteadk) ni lens? onl 1mA 
ingests ot bon baal, ni yeimedl tad te momssitens Jette ab 22 nosey 
Mtondmpene oft Yo esis aittsrr: Jigt) Yo aboow at nied = .ena2 bain) ody ai 
ommepngq Roblo aeomemA 1°71 aj wary AT 1 .yolast fone? Jo breed ody yet 
wabah madyninoA seo We fe 
ods ertauey s2dsol4 ads Yo ranmys sit eninge bred ai been iiaitulorstl oly owed 
om aqesh wwob wd ; yom bane rbaslgod assis dttynd nom acu vada wit . 
ony ed cadiles piteals 27: be pay a & wi = batded eon snot vent 
vedios of bag @nonvicen siezomsb to, ai i a tav%meq bas ovene oF ity 
wary idginn By ie 1 ih means. le monneusd: 

vem ot tertodw ssbreliel/ sow 79 ane tole bhaysl & oh saed2- ' 

wilt to gilniy od no babavysh soe gee ode wurood jon jtliwws ad) bogeehyade ie : 
bas mobsa) viiw tnel elt Lasisqed teil ase 291 to hook) adi 24% sical Te nal 


, 
ba | 

2 
ia’ 
iar K 
& 


2 

















*. 


eaeigyed te 
yo28 nol? mised sly Yo ogtunsd .bosiqgeni jon Ui eninignas ody bull 
fie geno of Joy enolerensy Wi Meuxsy Lae gronome: wl bas 


. de ad 0) IHeramR 
AM YAR? 1 THINOA— . 





7 
Eas fern Shor 2—--—-Continued 


THE EASTERN SHOREMAN 


You must have seen the glory die 
Where golden sunsets tint the sky; 
You must have seen the sunlight rest 
On Maryland’s fields 30 richly blest, 
Ere you can fully understand 
The pride with which this loyai band 
Accepts the name— 
“BWastern Shoremen.”’ 


You must have seen the doors spread wide, 
And known the Shore’s boast and pride 
Is in her hospitable homes. and seen 

Her greetings to her guests T ween, 

Ere you can understand 

- The pride with which this loyal band 
Accepts the name— 
“Bastern Shoreman.’’ 


You must have felt the friendly touch 

Of friendly hands that mean so much 

Of honest interest, and shows 
The love that with their life-blood flows, 
Ere you can fully understend 
The pride with which this loyal band 
Accepts the name— 
4 “Eastern Shoreman.” 


They know; they’ve seen the glory die 

Where gorgeous sunsets tint the sky, 

They’ve seen the ripening fields of grain 
That cover hills and lowland plain; 
And so my friend, you’ll understand 
The pride with which this loyal band 
Accepts the name 

“Bastern Shoreman.’”’ 





It tells of living links of love 

That rate all sordid gain above; 

It tells of hearts they've left behind, 
Whom they forever bear in mind; 
And so we’re sure you'll understand 
The pride with which this loyal band 
Accepts the name— 

“Hastern Shoreman.” 


Adapted from the ‘“Down-Homer.” 


Page Twelve 





= ¢ 
: - is 
: h ee a 
Weoniaing-- SEA Co TVWt9F 
- Pris 
CLIAROHS FANT che ART a 
- 
oh cioly «ii Neste oT eet, 
Cae GH? BAL ptpRite it 
Jao. Shsitiy ail) pose avd 
Jeeld “dobry os ale a britcralt 
be ileyohenn. IE gay ude 
bund jogo! alts iat jjiw shitg 
fitdir oli “iqoasA 
7 neasoge dvoteaa" 
hiv, baad: +oeh ef) aoe. vied of 
hws Ban gaged Warede of) woe 
toss Heth chimed aldalifbod wsd 
isew I wreerm wool'o? banat 18 
bial tehin ts, moy oF 
ind devel i490 dandy Alte obtta off «+ 
——Sir cd Oe elyou7k 
unimeqode miafaut'* 
ftouvod “fhaeelyl a1 el. overt Jeu gay 
Hou of feet 164% ehoudl «thao iO 
rworts tin davtul 
ero boald-ph. vsiht ANS tat) ovol off 
bretat shin Yibey oho, foe ott 
baad [eget aiar dota hw eff eat 
~irini ad) elpaass 
‘“Jonmed2 apeiea’’ 
Vb MtOly Of) steee avvett .wond ; 
é “ale a nn 4 hianiva aug: ar ie : 
lewd Yo Saige sds We aria 
badly a ol Nits subd toevda tad? j 
hamretaiie i ite’ faery) vid Oe aA 
bre? inal ah wes sp ehing eft 
= af! aigeriaA 
* gemdied2 Pipe 
a «rol Yo ealglt soivit Yo ef! 


ar . 
, wrodn aaa hilvide Ifa otay ~ 
Ahaivies Sh4! av zed Anied a ait 


shui nioeod 6991 Cul 
inerecteredorney WY ong Site ov - tow 


hand trval atds al eae ar 
ody po tee 
" naservede ‘erence 


‘sonmoH-awoll off? vent sla aid 






ti ; 
i's 


imutton 16 ’ 7 




















< 
a 


és 
Wa 






5 


aoa 








Continued 


Gastern Shore 


HOW IT HAPPENED 
A Legend— 


There is a legend to the effect that when Adam and Eve had been driven from the 
Garden of Eden, and the flaming sword forever barred man’s entrance into that lost 
Paradise, God, whose name is Love, was ‘sorry. His great heart softened, and looking 
with tender compassion upon His erring children—as we look upon erring children 
today; He resolved that He would build another Eden—bigger and better, fairer and 
nner than the first. 

And God built for the sons of Adam a land of peace and plenty. He surrounded 
it with huge bodies of sparkling water, and tempered it with cooling breezes. He filled 
it with fruits and Howers, and traced it with winding streams of surpassing beauty. 
He covered the open spaces with fields of ripening grain and dotted its hills with forests 
of oak and pine; then He watered it with gentle rains, blessed it with His love and gave 
His angels charge concerning it. 

When the workmen of the Lord had laid out and completed this second Paradise 
on earth; when they hed rested under the shade of its trees and bathed in its crystal 
waters; when they had breathed the perfume of its flowers, and spread their wings on 
its mellow air, they did not know its name. 

Pleased one their w ork—they dipped the end of a a Leon in a fleecy cloud, per- 
fumed it with a rose, watered it with a babbling brook, and left it for all time to Cech 
and inspire world-tired men and women. Men call this land the EASTERN SHORE. 


“MAKE YOURSELE TO HOME.” 
—LKastern Shore Style— 
It’s a homely—cheerful greeting 
That goes right to the heart; 
And you want to Keep on living, 
And play your little part. 
Of course, the chronic grouch— 
Who always wears a frown, 
Would miss the friendly note, 
And the music in the sound. 
But who cares for a grouch 
With his twisted—bitter smile, 
When a ‘‘make yourself to home” 
Lights up the weariest mile. 
And I know of nothing finer 
’Neath the blue enameled dome, 
Than the God-blest country greeting— 
“Make yourself to home.’’ 
We C.. THURSTON: 


TWILIGHT SILENCE ON THE SHORE. 
Twilight shadows hung around the creek, 
And hid the marshy shore in deepening gloom; 
I could not answer her or even speak— 
For something held my throat a silent tomb. 
I felt a quietness known to sacred things. 
The twlight calm that gives the world to sleep; 
I felt the throbbing pain such beauty brings, 
And knew myself alone upon the deep. 

SARA SPENCER ROE, 
Sudlersville, Md. 


Page Thirteen 





































dt ined asin mood hat 97 hay iw) etoeby 

ae! tlt aim sonevies> » mien baal. weg) | oli 

andes! bos .benatio: rus jetty ae Soe ene rola 
— nmblits git noga dol gw a— a nw efi 


218 wut juited bac iasted—wba torfone od blue 


beonuonue of -yanslq brs ong. 26 boat 5 canbA lo knoe sels wot Hind 
feel hed sti 25 rnd gatlow daw Hi Leargegresaa bow -loitw gotbbverge We asibod s1 
View gunn jo aus yeithaiw di a fer) bie errno —— n 
eel dirw elliot ant boviols bas omy gainone do tlisih ditir esonep nxYyo 5 129400 
Ivey bree aval ald diiw ub pencils pti od tive n burn sH nly = ban 30 
i onion: : 7 
ctiberel bavvvse sith borkyvey bow tue “biel Bed brad od: to eee ot 7 
Gee an ii boda bos eon ai ta abede oh than been bad garg! sine ao 
yor! node car 


ma enw Th base biog «wwok asl to ortiet yxy ots bearlinsdd be o 
weil oh woud son bib yada othe well 

mq sbuols yooh s oi wewliuna @ Th bie oils Lvaegpity qoel—— drow dacs dares bores 7 

Henin or seria in ret si sto! bem doosd quiliided aorbiw ti boone aor a Alte % bore 


4AOH? “AAT@AR sd) bone! dds thea Ws oomen bac nom Loia-bhow nigel bag 


. 
“SCH OF WAM ae ae 
ule vin nine 
walls Meirodo-— shamed # ag 
‘Pred of! oy digit ee0g tedT 
oil Go Gree OF lagw poe hoa 
nq ol agit yaly DOA . 
-—Hopeis dauids 81804 10 
440) 2» Stew crete wie 
Stent ghey] rota Dine g Da 
late ek at “bad 
{30012 « tt eeres Obw < 
Ofte toi! —bulglws sth dy 
‘sled Ot Two eater’ a ol WT 
tin sa ew yf u oer 
TAH anition dy th | bod 
mel belyuctie ould ad) des 
2ai3e18 YO jnold-had rs Be ed 


“witod oF Jlonaag = " 
YOTZAURT 9 OW . ; 


AUTOM AWE 20 C9 ee Te 


9599 ae ech nde iutai 
imooals aulioegasl a ayo Ute vor bid bad 
yl RoR i ; sowean (300 bipos I 7 
Nunes Het 6 IN ye bhed gatdtouen 10% 
“onli bloke ot OVONA seenritap a diet § 
qeeld-oy hee oll eet tel Miso dtviiw) ofT — 
aL gap hove dah wet oti teat 
ho ui Aste Ml Need wae baa 











SO UWIAAGS ANAS 
AM sneislbee 





Gastern Shore 


FAMILY HISTORY OF 


Taking history by and large, 
It is rather dry and musty, 
And like the family Bible— 
The books get mighty dusty. 


So it occurred to yours truly, 

In the good old summer time, 
To write a little history 

And set it down in rime. 


When Adam got his walkin’ papers, 
He had nowhere to go; 

There wern’t no trains a’running— 
And no busses on the Sho’, 


God squared accounts with Adam— 
And said, ‘“‘Get out you bum, 

And take that woman with you— 
Trouble maker number one.” 


But in His heart God was sorry 
That old Adam had to go, 

And right there and then was born 
The idea of the Sho’. 


This is authentic family history— 
Which can be clearly proved; 

Adam did not lose his Eden— 
He and Eve only moved. 


Which same reminds us here 
Of each Eastern Sho’ town, 
Not many people know it— 


But they’re built on hallowed ground. 


And the sins you’ve heard about, 
That old Adam left behind 
Not a trace of one is left— 
So far as we can find. 


Thus the beauty of our women— 


With their smiles and witching ways, 


Date right back to mother Eve 
In the good old garden days. 


In fact this is a better place 
Than the old original plan, 
Where snakes went prowling ’round, 
And talking like a man. 


Page Fourteen 





Continied 


WE EASTERN SHORE 


The first iden was a tryout, 
But Ged found it wouldn’t do: 
The soit was sovud for apples—— 
But they got Eve in a stew. 


So the God of ali the mountains— 
The rivers and the sea, 
Built another fairer garden 
Well known to you and me, 





Of course, you won’t believe it 
But this is gospel truth, 

It is better tnan the old one—— 
For it liolds the fount of youth. 


That’s why our sons and daughters 
Are the fairest of the fair, 

In this iand of love and beauty— 
And fiower scented air. 


God smiled when He made it— 
And blessed it with His love; 
Said He—‘‘There’s nothing better— 

Over, under or above.”’ 


So if we are slightly highbrow 
You’ll Know the reason why; 

We’re just first family—all, 
Here’re the facts to prove it by. 


Adam was our first granddad, 

His wite was grandma Eve, 
When others brag of ancestry 

We are laughing up our sleeve. 


We are still very fond of apples— 
And we'll lie a little too, 

Which we feel is proof conclusive 
That this little tale is true. 


And with our Christian virtues— 
Kept snugly on a shelf, 

There's a lot of natural goodness 
That induce to sleep and health. 


And we’re really not so bad 
When you take us all in all, 
For we still living on in Eden— 

Unaffected by the ‘‘fall.’’ 


W. C. THURSTON. 


a 


ob Noidiow i hepa pote 208 
--¢eigqs +i coe ve oe ol 
vole o mi ot 
eer trrny. aT ve bod ptt oe 
ive of) bin ene ait 


—aobred Yoihed savlioten: sieeet 
sal bas wor of wvond Dew 


Mt svulied Snow nee Serde oO 
Jeet? bigeom@ a ail) se 

sho Dio of) teit aehtatoat 4! 
ite Jo iawad af) abladoi 4604 


at 
Wwidgoel tre ane too Ce aod? 


sTHAT SH) Yo Werte onbt-gaé 
Ouse hin aval fo han wie? it 
ae betos “w 1WwoR bua 


-1) abem olf aethw elise p00 
rol ett a) i boweeld bar 
pied sain) va taratt'*. Le hlad 

avotn w gabe tavO 


rtsin viilohs on ee Ios 

“cil foxes: off werd pet 
Jia ina) ert fant oe 

td i sven 01 elual edt oes 


ist Tit saw 

eva wich go oii olf 
ty Sutil eta te: et 97 
ita tira qu saitalal ote BW 


pobDoONLTS 


liu iitti 


aglqqn Jo hic) tine [1% ote ol 
ou! ol 8 of) (few bead 
oviebigtos Towttg ab fan) sw 
ptt wt afes stil «lt in 


sandy catieted2 awe SR 
Merde.o ae Viger 

seanboun tetivien Io Jol w as 

(itinot hus qoole of gopiat a 


hint ax ‘Sou thao oee 
Jin at Us av edkd wor won 


—#9bH nt ao avlyit = ae: 
“He ald 40 


MOTHRUNT 0 


. 
fay 
ao 


tine. eee eer 
CY CARA OT IO eno Oat al 
Meg) - aw aube Had one | 


adois bewWeollad oo Sind 





Pate iag oe ¥ 
ae | ; 
» ene 



















prpek 
storsd ‘otliww aba 
jog 67) 

— pili nage p 

oak ont ome: ne * 
~-WnbA ditw a r 

rnd go% peter 

as —. fjiw n 


“ao rea ele 
TV10e 40% bot asd ot 


» me. oy 


6% of bed mahi = 
wied 2aw ted) bus ' 
“ol? add to 


~~—todeid eee? oaedine a 
Reve rinsls od waa 
——aebS ets! veol fom 
orem viao eva 


etol eo shalaies.s 
owe ol@ wetaaat 
~~) woud slqorg 


ised o7'oo¢ anla @ 
bedded ial aaa, bio -& 


Eastern Sapo. Gained 


Dale Wimbrow 


on 


“THE GOOD OLD EASTERN SHORE” 


We're like everybody else. Our trees and grass are green, our Howers come in assorted 
colors, and smell in assorted Havors. We get hungry, mad, discouraged, blue, happy, 
excite: and sleepy like all the rest of our far flung brotherhood. We have blessings, 
but boast of them less than you’d expect; we have hardships, but bewail them as little as 
possible. In the main we take what we’ve got—which means that in the main we’ve 
got what it takes. 

We have trees, but so do Maine, Missouri, Michigan, Massachusetts, Montana, 
Mississippi, and Minnesota. We might also transplant palm trees like California, but 
we will dispense with the Palms if fate will omit the earthquakes. We can even grow 
oranges, lemons, and limes—under glass. They really look much better in a hot house 
than in a hurricane. 

No digging is required to find our natural resources—they all lie above ground. 
We have no coa! mines; but plenty of warm hearts. Our iron, manganese, lime, sulphur, 
copper and phosphorous, grows on the surface—only we call it spinach, lettuce, beans, 
celery, peas, tomatoes, and onions. We have no diamond mines; but did you ever eat 
diamond-back terrapin? Our people do not need salt deposits—they’re the salt of the 
earth. 

We have freezing zero winters and sweltering, humid summers. Thank the Lord 
for that. At least we don’t have to endure monotony. Our skies are not hypocritical— 
they reflect God’s mood and warn when trouble is ahead. We have droughts, but it 
eventually rains; we have rains but sooner or later the sun always shines. 

We haven't any ranches, haciendas, or plantations—Just plain farms—But they raise 
peaches, pears, peppers, pigs and potatoes. Our fruit may not be prettier than other fruit, 
but when you eat one of our peaches you immediately know it is not an avocado. And 
you know why—which is more than you know when you eat an avocado. 

Our sea food tastes like food of the sea; and not brine pickled hamburger. Our 
oysters are not a Western apology; nor our crabs a Pacific Coast atrocity. Our lobsters 
have biters like any self-respecting lobster should, and not mere wasted, anemic fore-paws 
from lying too Piaee in luke warm water over coral sands. The same Marlin, Tuna, 
and Blue Fish that laugh at the sportsmen off Miami and Palm Beach, chuckle their 
way up the lazy Gulf Stream to Ocean City—and find the laugh on the other side of 
their face. 

Take one session with beaten biscuit, corn on the cob, sweet potatoes and gravy, 
home grown fried chicken with cream dressing, green tomato chow-chow—top it off 
with a slab of gooseberry, blackberry, blueberry, peach or apple pie, and you're ours. 
Eat one dish of our strawberries and cream; you save up to buy a farm. 

Our women are not the most beautiful; nor our men the most handsome—but the 
divorce court docket is a dusty, musty thing. 

If we lack the lam of scenic beauty, we have lakes, rivers, and bays that more 
than compensate. e don't need the majesty of mountains to teach us humility of soul— 
we've got religion. sos don’t need catastrophies to teach us the equality of all creeds and 
races. We've got Swedes, Germans, Negroes, English, Irish, Scotch. Indians, Jews, Gen- 
tiles. Catholics, and Protestants—but from the gateway to the Shore where Francis Scott 
Key got his biggest thrill the Star Spangled Banner still waves. 


Page Fifteen 


TO ee Pee 












=-eS i oe 
"@AOH2 “ALTAR Glo dood are 


jot . banoes ot omen aval in ossry sth may bas ecu wO sels 9 


ers ‘ . 

- equal utd wKbetitniene dep samen My OW neve bororek sere bre aks 

egal svel 57 feuded! gap 16) awe jo sen ods ie geet: og be 

eG oi9i:! ea mvaely Hoes) tol riche yun ow iesxs b voy neds to 5 Bs 

3794 ntiam or) tu teh eneora asniw— 104 ov ow julw slat ow neces rp was 

ancl murat neqideitt iia ninth ob o: jad Ars aad 3¥ 

tm sini) 34 sont tinge sogmgennss ole idgum 3'/ oeomlh Bo ers 

worg nave neo 3 joAnpdines sete How satel Yi aeled oft ibe see 

stuod jod «& mi treed dann AGol li wat eenly tabao—-eaanil bre ~2aernol 
oniniaud 6 1 ao 


-bnnorg svods uh ih: gorh--coxtenier lemgen wo dina of boiupet al anigaib oh 


























dudgive sil seonsuie cot. wit) aihedd unew 30 wuele wd cesaien lage f 
H , i! : ’ 

and ~ sisal aft PPAR 3} 34 Vino Jenlzuez nis fete) erry eunnorlgenty a 

wa ove woy bib aa! jeorine leet og duel oW ene bine A CTIOD BENE GN 

ads to tee ont a ywh—-etonst tine-Deem ton ob atqnog mi  Saievest 


ital oft doolT .mome|rme bird ainmaleve bos semniw often yin wed oW 
the gEag? 3 (don Th eae wO .pornein sulle OF svcd Tnol aw tens] SA, Jotlt é 


ted dua ove oi pete a oltum aviw mew bow bout wheelie ny 
eurite eqaeole time sth tel yo wnove ned soem aod ew paid . 
wim volt wi—enret aide a\|—enrareinale 10 arhtomul 2visee vos tose 
ditt tare cork mihnsd tan vec canbe) odtator hue egy cy RIE os 
wv. .obnsovn fe A tt wont (sikahanrwni nay rotten ufo ‘oe ono Téa oy ork 


obawerk ns tae Koy Code eal way nocd some Aobder—yehor wened tia 

ust? oyidenud boldvia onitd movin Gete Selb Yo bent whl rm bool em wt 

erates Gewe woo oye © ale we wh izpolaqe moe © OWS EB 2 

Wpoiat ycchte, (Laser aver: tone deta bhoeds aaskabed quiver tae yoo oti etond oem 
T anal smi od T bia Ineo V0 aew mew dol ai susingie 

Wdouds dow rile bee iui, Ho aspen adi oe Aywel tosh nel 


fa sbie radio ode n6 ihyuel oly bind hie—~gid aeok? os nteone Yad ¢sal odo 10 we 


% 


i) 
Tet 


ceitg bas esomag yore dos ot, 0 moo sluoeid mained dit niece Sab ode 
fe 1 qoi—wode-wolls otemet nomy .gniketb mas Abia nalvide bind 
eo sruor bane .siq sage 10 donsq -aredsald doald <(n>ise00g to 

; msl b iwd of qu gee vy jens bag einadwer wo to deb - 
alt tud-~9moalsiad rom ad? nom yn we dulitunsd’ wom sft son m6 soe wt 

. -Rowl) gteomn sneub 6 et adiak tae ; 

orn Jel) evod hoe «ye edad aver se onsd vine te tcl 2 Apal av U1 
——duor lo wilt) 20 Ase oe smmrmem WO edie att Lown ‘nak SRA NIENOD | 
ben chon He to ptilesps sel ay dnaees evitqertentes boa cook Fe ” 





‘= 





see 






fe soneyt awiyw nei? allin A. aE sift Yue) tot —egnsitesren'l . u 


7 bd j 


romthi® oped een 
peers 





Gastern Shore 


DOWN ON THE EASTERN SHO’. 


White folks say to colored folks— 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 

“Don’t be sparin’ of the ham and eggs, 
We got a plenty more.”’ 


Colored folks say to the white folks— 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 

“Dis chicken am mighty tender— 
Won’t you have some more?”’ 


Husbands say to their good wives— 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 

“Don’t buy one hat, get two, my dear, 
The milliner’ll have some more.’”’ 


Old folks say to the young folks— 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 

“Go on honey, and spend your money, 
Strawberries will bring us more.’’ 


Everybody says to everybody else 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 

“We can’t spend all-the money we got, 
What’s the use of making more?” 


White folks and the colored folks 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 

Enjoy so many the blessin’s of life, 
They never ask for more. 


Here’s a tip to the folks outside— 
If your funds are runnin’ low, 
Grab your hat and comé on down 
To the good old Eastern Sho’. 


If you’re broke and busted—all of that, 
And don’t know where to go, 

You’ll find a plenty and some to spare 
Down on the Eastern Sho’. 





This is the land of milk and honey— 
And it ain’t so doggone slow; 

Automobiles—girls, and fat fried chickens 
We got ’em on the Eastern Sho’. 


W. C. THURSTON. 


Page Sixteen 


"That God 


Continued 





SPRINGTIME ON THE SHORE 


When you hear a gentle rapping— 
As of waters softly lapping, 

Like a friend or neighbor tapping, 
Tapping lightly on your door; 
When this old familiar token— 
By its mystery has spoken, 

That the winter’s back is broken, 
It is springtime on the Shore! 


When you hear a gentle humming, 
Like soft guitars a-thrumming, 
To the tune of ‘‘we are coming, 
To play around your door; 

When a burst of song is ringing 
From throats in gladness singing; 
When the birds are homeward winging, 
t is springtime on the Shore; 


coming, 


When your heart leaps up in gladness— 
To forget its pain and sadness, 

And make merry in the madness 

That is just outside your door; 

Then you know without a doubt— 
That oid winter’s down and out, 

And with glad exultant shout—— 

It is springtime on the Shore; 


When there comes a peaceful feeling, 
O’er your senses softly stealing, 
As if vesper bells were pealing 
Their music ’cross the moor; 
When the lights are flashing clear 
With hope and love and cheer; 
And our eager hearts are whispering 
is very near, 
It is springtime on the Shore. 

Wt Ce THURSTON: 





ts 






















haunnitwnst—e SMOELE ; | 2, rated 


HONE 0 2h CTT ~ one a no 4 
‘ i © 6 


——snla@n aliaoy 5 160i ony ~—atlol, en 


Maiqast titer e41 Yo WA . per “A 
salqget madgien ro birahit # oth! ‘Aaao boa “ai am 


1b wor wo Wie adlqgat : 
todos telllecl blo eit aedy ~——whlol — o} ¢ 
aviow sed erable ab oo oe aaah 


oder «: doad se 1saniw oid isd? “Yul eloa 


‘orada of! ao ate tauinige #1 
- -  ——iigviw boom iedy 


vd? wietesth. 


animal “ass 2. wail nan 
. ? ae _y s eh tw or) 308 Jad ono tm Ta) ‘g 
ariel» eralg Noe aai\ roa @iide ove ie 


adiates .2almow eth ow" Jo sont ea? of 


ote 


-200b isow haetow ealq oT —atfol anvor ody of rs! ae 
acinnit si phoe Yo feud wast ode wiwiee® ods " 
. ‘Gem Wee baie btw ay , 
anigiwe szofitila 7) aed mor4 ‘som av nait Ulw eobedi 
yaloaiw bv ewan. etn abvid aft aad 


-ootd2 of! wo anirantvds a 32 eels thod¢reve of wena 
ore amwienll ely 
08 ow qanots oi) Ia bogey 


sgebule il qo eyes! haen sor Want ‘trom gnidam lo sue 
oopbee bie oleq = Mant of 
wiona eds ni cit sheet Dee mila?l betolos oft bas ae 
ooh Tok ‘ange yeah sf 188 (One uisiend wt 


iil 16 a otewsld add 


nfuobh « ywvediiw wout voy ned? a7oas 201 Aen 


ano has awod e o1alw Mo iat 


shoe faajlioxs bahy ditw haa — izle o atlot adi ote 

s19HB § no einkt a ox we ‘alvaur oA 

viedza od) intiqgaihyea Bn oiigiendtade 
002 wrotesd blo 


oleae! (lees « sino aed? aod 
‘Qnifhet ¥i%o« seace thoy w'O «tails se ta onan hoa 
aniineq wtow allo’ r9qpev Hak OR OF VAY 
160m dt wero’ oivem tind't | PARE OP berg i Kon 
—tasle antideat ot aidail sity nodW : 

vwed> bee ove haa sqodt dW = —_enod ak Fiftn Yo” 
athiaqeldy om aneed wane wwe hen (8s We OMRON Ce 
een ere at bem ved gi fees 1 ee 

e1od2 od) oo omiianiiqe wf 

VOTanI HT av AGTEAUAT OW 


ed ° 
a@es ea 
he - 


Gastern Shore 


Continued 





HIGH JINKS ON THE CHESAPEAKE 


in 


THE SCHOONER NETTIE LEE 


Sing of the Schooner, Nettie Lee, 
that floated on the tide 

Commanded by tall Billie North 
of long and lanky stride. 


This Captain Bill could spin a yarn 
from poorest grades of wool; 

And when the yarn was finely spun 
you felt his canny pull, 


The ship was loaded to the rail, 
her bowsprit cut the foam; 

With hatches soaped and battened down 
the captain steered for home. 


The mate came back to walk the poop, 
his face was glazed with fear; 

“A mutiny is brewing, sir, 
the sailors all act queer, 


“The cook has killed our leanest pig 
and swears its curly tail 

Has tweaked our compass south-south-east 
and caused the winds to fail. 


“The carpenter has made a box 
no bigger than a mouse 

“And swears it’s larger than our ship 
and is a haunted house, 


“The bo’sn leans against the mast 
and weaves a tale of air; 

“He braids the ends of sta’-sail ropes 
and calls it Nellie’s hair. 


“But worst of all, I must report, 
the men who climb the shrouds 

“Say that the masts have grown so tall 
they reach into the clouds. 


“What is there, sir, a mate can do 
when bucking such a tide, 
“Except to stay upon the ship 
and ride and ride and ride? 


“This morning, sir, the cabin boy 
was leanin o’er the rail, ; 
“And when I thought to make him stir 

he held a Mermaid’s tail. 


“The Mermaid sang bewitchingly, 
the boy’s eyes were bright; 

“And when I thought to catch him, sir; 
he dived quite out of sight. 


“T saw them rise a hundred yards 
or more away from ship; 

“She held him tight within her arms 
and glued onto her lip. 


“And then she sang a siren’s song 
cf coral lips and waves: 


“Tow Mermaids tive beneath the sea 


in coral tinted caves. 


“IT swear by yonder dapper moon 
I’d nave juniped into the sea 

“Tf she had beckoned with her hand 
or smiled oue smile at me. 


“Gur second mate has smcked a pipe 
three days without an end; 

“He says that ships are hatched from eggs 
and eggs one cannot mend; 


“That our good ship, it smells so bad 
of rotten things like slum 

“That he must always smoke his pipe 
and drink and drink your rum, 


“Our windlass, sir, has been reversed 
by some unthoughtful clown; 

“For when we weigh the anchor up, 
we weigh the anchor down. 


“What shall I do, good captain, speak— 
our ship is in distress! 

“Unless we bring our men about, 
{ fear a fearful mess.’”’ 


“My barrels of ale, my barrels of ale!” 
was all Bill could reply; 

“My barrels of ale, my barreis of ale! 
I’ll bet my weather eye!”’ 


he pulled his hair, he beat his chest; 
he cursed the drowsy crew; 

And bellowing like a bull he stormed: 
“Vili show you what to do!” 


Belaying pins, belaying pins 
went flying thru the air 

Like snow-flakes falling in a storm 
on Mount McKinley’s hair. 


The seamen all were brought about 
and not a jib was jibed; 

And then tall Captain Billie North 
upon his log inscribed: 


“This is the schooner Nettie Lee; 
in ballast now we sail 

“Because the crew, in three days, drank 
one thousand barrels of ale,’’ 


All book rights reserved. Copyright 1938 by Alexander Abbey Piper, Mardela, Md. 


Page Seventeen 


— 


va” wT, 


7, 


a 







AACS AO YO eee wor 


: een we nn 


yore enews a oe 
avy mar late oa - 
eee off’ Ajaieted avip I laa 
weve Bora fatse ai 


vom wyqah huey “6 a i” 
er of? olmt Dogue SY BT 
baud wil Witiw teeter aad abe n” 


























ec de Sligte a0 mie) 
lay eft 6? bebsot | 
eqiq oc bodeome vod alow »* no} oft J06 F 
‘pie as soodila € an owob huustiad baw 


outed tw bersehe tegao 


qong ed? slew o) asad omas 

had oz sileme 2 «ile boey tau et? rue) dilw ae 
aude o4il cacti auiien ko (wae pa i be 

agi: ett wifodts eyowls mm ed godt” . ‘weUp Dk hae 


ae te Aah bos aatvh Awe aly iseancl wo bsiltd ead 

fie! this el 

bearsrst dood xd we eRe aOO” jens-dsuoe-dibos enngines Iwo Ym 
Leoly Wwiphenw(ier qos. cd dial o1 abolw off bowtea | 

Qu tadous ots Aulny ow podw. +04” a 
Dwob tod ol dalew ew fod « obam 2ed iilgeg. 

eutom « and? 4 sid 6 


daoge belies boog .ob | (ede ad @ike veo Hed) Waste! #3! ernowe & 

‘weaudel ol el ihe tire avodl betoded a ft & 

Vode Wet Iau yom ow exsslay 
“seo lutiael = teak | 


2an%0 tot) bedemd ove egide tet ne ght” 
,bie@m Joaahs O16 Hake 


main ott jeticans enool ma'od © 
iin le vist. s @vnew 


eago? liteax to chao of) ebietd Ol 
“tole to xierind var «in to Shere! oa” ‘ied eeilioh 1 afl 


digg bittos DT Ue sew 
ele le aiemad yo! +le Yor elostad cla 
‘loves twine’ var md WT 


410607 fava | Je lo 
howe off dite ofW 
iia} o8 awers otod steam od? 
teody eid sped of ain aid bolle aad sheets odd oral donee ge, 
[weed vVaworh offi beams ed : 
bogmotle wf Mad « oil eniwohed GRA 
“fob wi icdw poy woda wt” 


naig. yaiyeled .eniq yolyeiodl 

ve oi) wll anigh saw 
mole « tt gullln)] sedeh-wots edil 
tted 2 yolniAoik moe ao 


souds Idguvotd etew Me none aif 
.bodit caw dit «fam tee 

fiiio% «ili elaiqw) Wai words bwA 

: 5 #0) eid fogn 


;o0.) offieK% tonooddss od) al aT 
Hae ow wod tenld a 
taeth weed oor) wi puts vill avabeate”! 
“elu Vo slevind biusened) oino 


DM aber songtl gehts thera ve 


rogtnoved oga9 


Eastern Shore—continued 


THE EASTERN SHORE. 


A tribute from the Benztown Bard 
Evidencing his affection for the Shore and its people. 


Written especially for this publication, 


I know what you mean by the Eastern Shore, 
I know what you say when you say ’tis fine; 
I know it with love that is more and more, 
Like the love one has for an old, old wine, 

_ When they wanted a spot to make their stand, 
The spot they chose was our Maryland, 
And out of it seeking, their eyes fell here 
On this Eastern Shore that is all so dear. 


Why, the birds themselves in their flight stood still 
On poising wing; and the bees did, too, 

And said this land is of God’s own will, 

The fairest we’ve seen ’neath His skies of blue. 
And the blossoms, wafted in seed and floss, 

Fell here and were happy, and day by day 

The beauty of life lifted every cross, 

And joy came sailing to river and bay. 


Culture and romance and figures of time 

In history, statesmanship, letters and art, 

Of this loved Shore, with its gentle clime, 
Have come through the decades to be a part. 
The old plantations, historic homes, 

Fashions and customs of grace and worth— 
Here is the land where tradition roams, 

This is the fairest of God’s green earth. 


THE BENTZTOWN BARD— 
(Folger McKinsey) 


Page Eighteen 




























A 
' t won 


; j 
at = 
7 a all . - i 
* ~~ 2% — inte eu 


av 
rn, aa | - 
: 4 
a Ul ee 7 “= 
AROMA FANTAIL ANT Stet Mb ake is 
pte haber wal siodh ed 
viqoeq =i bos v0 Sf tol Moltoota etl gation 


ai 


noi tesiidwg eth 16) eliaiosaes aise 


e008 s1kegG off 4d ane voy inte woad I 
oul 9 (ae ge cedw Oe so, Ied® woud P 
stot Dee ia #l lai e¥ol iw 1 woad 1 —? 
eum ble blo 10102 end aqo éyol od} ofl 
aot tod) gdgm Of Joqe 2 botnew vod) aod W 
Liberal 10 4iw seo vod! Joga oAT 
etod Is? eoxs tied .salddee 1 to too BAA’ 
tk0h O@ fin wt jud! s0d@ aveimadt cids dO 


litte boore stath vipdt mi eevienmeds vtyrid eds 4dW 

oo! bth sed of) bone 7antWw guiziog 00 

iw ane 2 hop lo alhexi aid? bias BoA 

sui in ave eb ined’ cape ov'ow jeotte) 4A? 

“0 Dae toes a! bestow .saeaeold od? baA 

ro) ta teh ban .qygad owe bus eag HoT 

eet VIS6ve hol af Ye <eaed oAT 

wad bn 7 of gatiies ym yot had ; 

5 ‘ a al ee el 

citi? te att bitg soremet baa sraile> 

Tio Gite eTli6t qi ideGenmeetale cidlaid af -~ 

vil alee 21 itr .rett bevel 4790 

stag ¢ ! Of epbposh oft dapand? sags ovat 

omen osoin enolate bo ad é 

—inow bun-osst4 lo emtomps bas gnolisst 

. atrnen nebiben sodw bani eo owl : 
. ste 10913 209 Yo tet iat eT ng 


ar : 
—IHisAa “VVOTST4ade GHT ; 
(XonalMolé s9s10%) a 





Gaste rn Shore—contin ued 


“THE GOOD OLD EASTERN SHORE” 
Dedicated to Ged’s Cuuntry by Dale Wimbrow 


There’s a land and it ain’t Cabiornia. 

Where I’ll park myse!f no more to roam; 
The people down there now call it ‘“Del-Mar-Va’’—- 
Still to me it’s just my home sweet home 

So take me to the shores of cld Virginia, 
Or Delaware or sunny Maryland, 
And when you get me there 
Just leave me anywhere; 
Because I know Ill find a welcema hand. 


CHORUS: 


On the good old Eastern Shere, 

The good old Eastern Shore. 

From the ocean to the gates of Baitimore, 
Where the good folks stick together 

Like the good folks ought to do. 

They took the sun from ‘‘Sunny Scuth’’ 
And stole the climate, too, 

And cherries—(shout)—Hey! 

And berries—(shout)—Say! 

They’ve got ’em like you never saw before. 





They’ve got the sweetest peaches there that ever could be found, 
They fall right off the tree and then get up and walk around 


On the good old Hastern Shore 
On the good old Eastern Shore, 
They’ve got so much they couldn’t ask for more. 


(PATTER) 


We're right next door to Dixie, 
In Maryland, My Maryland, 
And Delaware, too, 

I pine for you-— 

So carry me back—to— 


CHORUS: 


The good old Eastern Shore, 
The good old Eastern Shore. 
To the land across the bay trom Baltimore 
I hate to hear a boaster, but the truth just must be told— 
The very dirt we walk upon is worth it’s weight in gold, 
And farmers—-(shout Hey!) 
And charmers—(shout)—Say! 
They’ve got ’em like you: never saw before. 
Now Greeley was a great man, 
May his ashes rest in peace, 
But if be were alive today, he’d say; 
“Young man, go East’’ 
To the good old Eastern Shore, 
To the good old Eastern Shore, 
That’s all there is; there isn’t any more 








NOTE:—-This theme song of the Eastern Shore, a catchy melody, is 
sheet music. 
Copyright applied for, July 25, 1926 


obtainable in 


Page Nineteen 


pave? 
hive re 


mi sidqutaito st “(bole viloisy # 0? gietend af) to gnde ¥ 





od hives wove bod) aOR? eedvaed Inetowws ads joy ov’ yor? 
tivw hia ov tog fon) bite oon of) No Ida iad yosT 


—biet od Jew jeu, Min ods ® wsed of ; 
ingot wibglew att arrow st Ae ow sith eee 





















eeoded vein 1 bank 


| So at Meas ey 


ip 

wens 2 Yo es10de off? 
Snatvieh wadue to 
wielll om ton voy af 
iotwyis oat 







i 


bout omosiew » bed 1) woud Te ; eed @) 
MAEMO 
tone atsiecA ble bows 
sons greshad t ho 2,2 a 
a on Parry oi ©) wee5o os 


4] dole wAlol bowg ods 
Sh ot 1dpve pllul boog oft sothl 
“Aer ¥yoanue” 65! ava od) doo! vost 
ov! otentily of) oldte ba A 
'yolH—-\ prode)—-aotrieds baA 
}tHe— inode) —asited 
a1e}e Why WOYeK YOY VAI uy’ Jog ov 


0828 avetea’ blo boog 643 2O 
sede ayeieea bla boog 5113 a0 
ron TY dal  abinos vol) doom o& 103 ov' yodT 


(HwTTAL) 


witht of took Java igi ae W 
bamireit 4 Naeigialt of. 
0) arawaletl BOA 
~et sol oniq I 
—us ged ot res 624 
“ARON 


ied? ataiaa’ bio 
wie wise bla boo 
qnomilnl west gad 913 eagtoa re om! of 


ye eo 
ied Whe Tevet 20% sil mo’ 30% OF 
7 (er bag, amitan ak a 


faut bin. hewn’ | 
A Ralies ee 
e10agt yan Viral o19il) jal 


Of4t .h2 Whol sed tele tdybrege'd 


Gastern Shore—Continued 


HERE AND THERE ON THE SHORE 


Rambling around the Shore in search of material and subscribers was a delightful 
experience. There were a few unpleasant incidents, but they happen even in politics. 
Occasionally we'd meet a Lordly male whose cerebellum was soured, but that was all 
in the day’s work. “This old world we live in is mighty hard to beat, you get a thorn 
with every rose, but ain’t the roses sweet?” 

Disclaiming any intention of mixing folklore and legend with commercialism, one 
of the bright spots of our journey was the Cambridge Bakery. Which, by the way, 1 
not a Bakery at all, but a Fairyland of good things to eat that are not sold for ore 
The proprietor is an artist—the dinner table is his canvas, and spread across its snowy 
surface, in graceful repose are the samples of his art. 

The real romance of life lies not with yesterday, but today. Prosaic commercial 
transactions are tempered with the poetry of living, and the teeming millions to be happy 
must be fed. All men have to eat; even young lovers nibble a ‘sandwich occasionally, 
and blue eyed babies—little mites from the Celestial Kingdom, complain bitterly when 
nourishment is not forthcoming. 

Our reference to the Garnbridge Bakery is not tainted with commercialism. Our 
thoughts are drifting back to generous slices of golden brown cake—and something else— 
until we visualize the sparkling Choptank as a creamy mixture of milk and flour and 
sugar and eggs crystalizing in a huge collation fit for a King. 

Cambridge is a town that takes you to its heart. The most courteous man we met 
in all our travels was a Cambridge banker. May time deal gently with him and his 
tribe increase. There was a man—in another town, who barked and bit us twice on 
the same leg. It. was our good leg, too, and the Doctor is still treating it. 

Our next point of attack was Easton. Easton that once called itself the “Heart of 
the Shore.” For that statement we hold no briet, (we live at Salisbury) but there are 
big hearts in Easton, and bright “good mornings” said with a smile. Lo and behold! 
whorshoulds we) méet dat an old acquaintance who hitched up his gasoline buggy 
and took us around to see the folks. Another young man of about 80 gave us his last 
dollar (maybe he was joking) and then presented us with one of his best books. We 
have pleasant memories of Easton. The stalwart sons of both Cambridge and Easton 
were Gentlemen before the Mayflower engaged in the furniture business, "and their fine 
qualities have not detericrated with the years. 

Denton is the unforgettable town. It is full of things historical, old houses and old 
memories—dear to those who cherish them. Even the river at Denton is old, older than 
the town itself. But the friendliness of Denton—sweet as the fragrance of new mown 
hay, is the oldest of all. It came down from the sermon on the mount. The essence of 
the Master’s teaching lives and abides in the hearts of its people; need we say more? 
We could build a book around Denton, but there are other places to be mentioned, and 
Denton is not selfish. 

Chestertown has a “Rock of Ages” house, an Eastern Shore atmosphere, and a 
hospitality that is practical—we were invited out for dinner. Our biggest booster lives 
at Chestertown—a fair daughter of the Shore who tvped two stories for us when we 
needed only one. Lots of interesting things happened on our ramble thru the Shore. 
There was a banker at Chestertown who did not talk to us thru a grated window and 
shuffle"his papers while he talked. In the privacy of his sanctum we chatted of the 
poetry of the Shore, and his name goes down in our book of “immortals.” 

Centreville received us coolly, told us goodbye cordially, and expressed the hope that 
we would live to a ripe old age. Approaching 65, with Centreville’s prayers, perhaps 
we can make it. 


Page Twenty 





i a ne I 





















































ie, 


OH 


camming 
= 7 of - 


hie Aw x 


oy, 


ie 


yAOH2 LAY 40 Mag a*%A ae 1a 


lvisteiiclh « env atedinedtie bie lens do tose mm sold ott te 
ap\toy ce tte eterna YOR) ae) Fo (Ort Jgrteek aiqstn wt «a aaa 


lhe enw sali tod tenor ~ ut ths oye} oi, pect olnit il wd Ne 
mom? oC ist igy Jeu oF Viti reds juvl © nr ant au biois ? | ta et * 
; Siopvee eget vill Paes an tos dt 
sinacactes dav broy! Nas stlbel Skin te nonnon gant yaien: 
w sat A's) x | subedipg td att any yom, he ie expe niyind wi 
: \ wo | ‘jon a ins OF mes i firpersy io Tate ied © lee Ta 3s ois e we 
Yyronte 2H worn | tye by uyungy eG. SIAL) tort oft — ira On. BT wasiqeTq: it 
ne 7uf9o eolymmg off ou seoyn lig al ote 





my, crests remet ] mp borsy (| «ebro diw fad sod st)! lo gone lan oT 
‘Miran wt iti “ll & ume! ID Nae ly stv bosoeqpliad OTe MOI eaters 
tenon dotebe ikea “yvral mayey m/e fhe: eed cern TA del ad ot 
Peed ree) bE Tae i A intesisD : nat susie ofsnl—eoklid bays wuld t 
| 4 minel a pis OF 
vm laine tyottiad Jun (oy hyal idee) sh ot cneyier wD 
o j 1 xpvila 2uToesy on 4 gnutinh ore asd 
be in rriyt> 6 al ged’) y ats o0ilkareie ov lope 
t Ww oo yur uxiloserT> 4g? ban + 
your 4 eur oA lj aba ryaor ond wats yybindmaD 
an ¢ ' beccyt my welé ~AneH wy crim) « seve eleva wo Un a 
no 2% foc nina « eew nadlT oon 36 
: a) ; ’ ? ae Doo Ie 26w TI got wn 
nok i hil i nened wit seer dapat to 10i04 1x00 wO 


ton 19s 11 |=“ ode 

. , ; wid be rel mt encod } 

soiid ut { onvw aston eo bh as we tom + bluode ator 

j 1 unui Tall #alal ot bavows es doo a0 

1 aod eid bo orev atiw ep Doseoedoe stg bore gris aww od odynen) 

‘wit, Previa dT noted je ut mom ltecesly ove 

: rsvrgied nord nonelines) son 

dt ete eosmoneush yoo aed eile 

blo toe om slo Ageia oi jo Botecal ved) aidetiagaoinu uh ao aciwtt ‘ 

nant table wlilo oy roger ioéey vid a rA ei feredls Onn sell oF 1h eoe Tet 

nem wou to soagett df xc Meve-enontiel 16 ersnatbrrver? ~, wt = Ahsaah ewes 3 ' 

ts Soreeeo of cmon odd oo monrise or anit avd Sis 7 “Tn bo reshlo ohh zt 

noi vea ov been seek pr 1 to aed oft a eebele ban “ei anid erased | 

bas .bonoitnom sd ot esclg isto on nora eG bower dood « bliad blue» y 

Mattice ron 2 aginst 

% bose siedqeoints nod? core nt sed “zag Jo Goof” © anil Gwar) — 

wel reread vagus of) cena 1) io Deve ow c= lysacig ai deel ailn 

vw noefiw ay tol <uinale wees ‘, rv) tive pert? of) jo watdyenlk ped ede rath 

wied4 sd) uw) sltinna we ic ; tape nit egret) Ganesan Jo eal ane dine +vao 

bas wobaiw borage ved) 1 op Bnd ron bh if duthay never) te Kya Ne ; 

sity to byaticats gat pmitortue etd do ESeeite| gli al -bexAles ‘orb olirber ay 
"haremene’ yo fete weowi aaele esoy cone eid ban soil? 

vers qed ots Loewe tay labios aio eu bor , (lows an lestiven tae 


apihsg aro ung asllivernsl div 20 geidsuonygh am * ayn 6 OF 


pens 








Gastern OTe Continues 


St. Michaels is a name to conjure with. Democratic and kindly disposed, there is 
a peace and calm in and about its quiet streets that invites the traveler to linger and 
chat. There is also a banker at St. Michaeis, friendly and human, who is not ashamed 
‘nor afraid to open the door of his private ofhce and say ‘come in.” Naturally, the 
etmosphere of St. Michaels inspires the literary minded to flights of poetic fancy; for in- 
stance, “The roughhewn ugliness of things,” evolved by a St. Michaels poet. 

The Shore has a number of picturesque little 1owns, each so attractive in its natural 
setting that one would be puzzled to make a choice bere them. 

Latevin Sunny Maryland began for us at Crisfeld. That’s where we were initiated 
into the great Fraternity of Eastern Shoremen—just twenty six years age. It was a great 
occasion, and we've never ceased to be grateful te Crisfeld for receiving us into full 
fellowship with the best people on earth. 

Pocomoke City is all that any-one could desire. Sentenced to spend the remainder 
of our days in Pocomoke, we would exclaim with the poet—‘“God’s in His heaven—all’s 
right with the world!” We had a proposal of marriage at Pocomoke, but being busy 
with the book we forgot the lady’s name—and thus, another broken romance. Pocomoke 
City has two poets, scratch around in these pages until you find their contributions. 

Berlin is a fine little city, full of history, romance, haunted houses and many dear 
delightful people. It has a number of fair women who know their history backward— 
forward, crossways and before breakfest. But the dear souls contradict each other con- 
sistently—continually, weeks days and Sundays. Berlin is strong on history and pro- 
nunciation, especially where the neme of the town is involved. It has a Presbyterian 
minister who turns out a new book every month or so; a fine Mayor who encouraged 
our undertaking, and the second rudest male individual on the Shore. Being a Pres- 
byterian—doubtless the sweetness of his nature was predestined before the morning stars 
sang together. Berlin has one unusual attraction; on the Harrison plantation is a tree, 
a scion of the original—by direct descent, from which Eve procured her first party dress; 
no snakes are in evidence. The demand for leaves far exceeds the supply, but Eve 
dresses simply these days, and one fig leaf is enough for anybody. 

Our fellow poet at Federalsburg_ w ould have none of us, and Federalsburg 1 is such a 
pretty little town! He did not say “scat”, but he felt it and showed it; we caught the 
idea and scatted accordingly. Our Federalsburg sketch was written by the famous 
LORELEI of the “Rural—Main Street” column in the Federalsburg Times. 

Delmar and Ocean City treated us like “homefolks,” and furnished their full quota 
of subscribers. 

To the postmasters—preachers and poets in a number of places we were unable to 
visit, we wrote long letters asking for cea and moral support. A few replied, others 
did not, but after a few tears we forgave them as we hope to be forgiven. Therefore, 
dear friends, if you look for a story on Whiteoak Swamp and don’t find it, you will 
know that the Mayor of that placid stream was too busy to send us any material. 

But it was a grect trip: we kad a grand and glorious time. To know the Eastern 
Shoreman in his natura! habitat is a high privitepe: to visit his home and break bread 
with him is a benediction and a blessing. And the women, bless their hearts! Without 
their friendly assistance our little publication would not have gone over. "Iwas ever 
thus! To woman, lovely woman, we owe everything that 1s fine and sweet and good 
and true in this topsy-turvy world! 


EDITOR. 


Page Twenty One 

















































4, 


2f pyar) .b wageib floc bens sberoerst! fiw oimine> of when © 2 oi oni 
We Toea wy volves oft esthcii tory otowtte mip en ronda ne a calus ] ’ 
loviden ton a ohw anted Say Hhewe wisolatlt 22 w redeed 6 wile af 
why wieu ey ‘nr -oares” ee Bee siti aero ail io rab att, ” by 
1 al Sani aating to odgift ot tvabpiien ‘qui sly rnicwat elontilé 32 to hd saan 
tomy eiondil’ 3@ ¢ vd beetove “again jo soniye nepaddguey of EP 
imate eiont svi or toes emer sheiit SMigiestir tar] ralmen & ead noid of T 
co) noowd wanly 6 salu oo botseng sd Bw sine sed 
Lome der Now ow monn <del fois: ) i, 2H Ye! naz: at lan slepa : “yore ni “y 
mm oc rcwal von eu AW Vino? 2sil—aoitnnte maieo4 jo qnenaierl Inorg 1¢ 
ia) Pen grivess ool blew) ot ie af ot bent wen Soe bee 
iire2 no viejo read arts date Sonali 
betsmo) odt boxwp of bewesest Jee blue sien it The et gi per 
Te -navaed ett ny e'bo" 900 qi ity mints blaow +7 sonal # 
ue gel ud efor Je sgenvetd To hedge «bud oW “Thier ang 
Ann cen nodonl maa, 2d lito 2 ybel ot og ow seed ae 
} ine tredt bot wey labia Zonity sory en: bruce dete Se ral | overt ond ¥ 
199b venie hee esavod Loiient one .aalelt So oo vie oil anit py 
Ha nwo oll wood Onw nsoewW We te vad ec wat at alge | 
rit! » Joberion elie ey oily suf laut »vidlot hea aeeeene 
cig wy : foo tre at opttiell 2¥hwine lo, corel sleww 7 heneniae 
fonaiveen’ rc act a bovlnvat et eraopeoed? Fa Sita whl wresely (lintvaqes 
, ‘ cll, - 704 30 tne 7wve*sewd vel 4 joo ceo ome 
ae ij iZ ot mo donee aloes wok rm Dacre wy byrne: yard 
: fh ssf) ayied tyres by eee Bde ail jo wove nve odd esl ly Ut 
qaovicrekl ef of stieernvic lhyeuety ris} rey! iis 
' tere of be int + 4 ronhe fart basso seve 7a Ane thy 
yey 1 #bssurs ye! coves) at Doeeteb sf -.ovslivs a oa 
; ‘nn wi iguvonS ina! ur so boc vych seat 
uz eisiolero wi flue .-@ Jo ron sen bla wertbels. wiiod 1 nog 


~~ 


yu lit¢ } r-lyowortle twik ty ah - orl supet q ao) ye ine On hell Hi 'hwot s 
aurlivv7 Civ “AF Per that leials 1 st) aby ft es piste i € 
wT wurde wh at anatle “pe? siflé—levdt? aie tie br 
Heap ful wal bakonet lee "aaidomed” off en bamew ‘W neva beam om 
0) giieny sew ov soonlg lo sede & ni dison bre senbarotg-—eiaye edt 


Je 


emte -balyn wot A ayeqaue lees Gin, letaraee wy anidel moral : 
otvead T Aavignal x! ot sqod sw as ino aegelow neat wo) © varte 
Vive voy witout took bey amend Acouii ne not ec wl Bool Ai Pet 

monte Oe zu gee et qeard cay as rope belly gulr ils 
nsomed ole wud a ape NTS hone ‘ymin biel a0 xen Spee 
lino! Anew! bie meee ag dete of . sali iegy Api «s ar ided Loutia 


— 


tuoi! 'ehoud woes station ott lath > enema x jen rub w , di 
wo aw Eve Aine aves fot Lleoe qobiguildiies shud sae our je cas 
leing bas. tsowe lng ant 4 wh gouliness spo ow Jaleo: ii stapes oa oT ley 
Thigowe 909 un ba 

AOTIAR ) id 


ry 
Pe « 
Dips Ad. 
i a< : 
ke rac 


ite 





Gastern Shore 


THE HISTORICAL SOCIETY 


Continued 


I like old things that otters do not need— 
Old memories on which the heart can feed; 
Old friends and orchen chairs 
Old books to read; 

Old songs to sing—and they are sweet; 

Old clothes to wear-—old homes that stand 
On some quiet street; 

The quaint old things— 7 

Like grandma’s Dibie and old wedding rings, 
The time-wcrn steps of ether days-— 

I love old things! 








The fleeting pleasures of todav are trivial compared with the cherished memories of 
the past. Time provides the only true perspective. Our judgment today is warped and 
biased, and reason is toppled from her throne. But tomorrow we weigh and measure 
and learn properly to evaluate what seems of so little worth today. 

If the future is judged by the past, then the past is irrevocably linked with the 
present, and the present but foreshadows the future. The milestones along the highway 
of life—carved from the rock of endurance and sanctified with the blood of martyrs, 
were erected in the past, yet they are a part of the living, vital present. 

Poor indeed is that people who have no past te venerate; no cherished memories to 
treasure, no shrines at which to worship. Into the valley of death rode the six hundred, 
but they live today in the hearts of their countrymen. The story of their valor goes 
marching on. 

In the forty eight States of the union are many counties. But each county has a 
history of its own. Each has its venerable Church—ancient and ivy-clad, filled to the 
brim with stirring memories of strong men, who, in a new land built an altar to the 
living God, and defended the right to worship with their heart’s blood. 

Again, each of these counties has something—carefully preserved, that was peculiarly 
its own. Quaint architecture—agricultural implements, manufactured products, books, 
and even prosaic pots and pans. Many of them have broken walls and crumbling chim- 
neys, but around and about them is woven the sentiment of a hardy race—a peace-loving 
people, who, having put their hand to the plow did not look back, 

Provincial, did you say? The story of our country is the story of great sections 

developing individual characteristics under the pressure of social and economic conditions, 
and then by the sheer force of local pride and distinctiveness, reacting upon other sections, 
and. thus shaping into unity that complex result which we call national character. 
The outstanding achievements of the great intellects of the world have been the work 
of those who loved their home lands. 
_ Would you destroy the Lincoln cabin? Would you take from the English language 
those immortal lines, “With justice to all and malice to none.” Would you take from 
the Bible that most sublime expression in all history, “Father forgive them for they know 
not what they do.” 

Would you erase from Maryland history the story of Francis Scott Key and the com- 
position of the star spangled banner? Would you level the walls of Jerusalem—and take 
from the Holy Land all its sacred associations with the sweet and ennobling influence it 
has exerted on the hearts of men? No, you would not! It is only history today, but 
it is history that is saving men and teaching the great lesson of universal Brotherhood. 

How many of us had aught to do with the making of the county in which we live? 


Page Twenty Two 


— 






























































bontril 


YVaIsoe PAWAOraN wee 


“bos Mt aByetteaiic Inf «ands hip ome 
jbue: aoe Joep ah ubistta. a0’ nonreer fh 
Shs tea bre shoelt) Bie 

this o) hood MO 

owe eve YoY Pitte-——yale oF sande BP 

ni tail? «sie ifa-—-jyaw oF irate bt. 
Joule bidd i nuor ao is 

ids ito iectone ef? 

tbhew fie fem sANS ew eethaen ophl 

; Tada In fae np rw-sattt od? 
‘lamer BI vil -T 


“ie 

ip 24) i? () iw boatnines WMivind son veld: lo sored iq grueeb aT 
. > mo » 4 ¥ 
litt F ttle lie) y * nye te 918) ) Ti?) white ng nha ae J 


yeni tia , wires val fuMl TTTME:T Wel : ntti?) 2t tM brie a 
ithe) drew offense bo envade geri sinulévs af ehoquiq gal Mu 


dvi v! ent) Of) aside deb sete yet lee 4) 2: tee ods U 
} it: ‘ sf a) wah ot: evrhbsresie ted tm Pog oy bne (tae 7 
tonne fears. mite in door oft mond) boven io 
fet rb vil ail © ote 9 veg wt ot beers oes 
fOftrsi NMTSSY OT Jeb - ) tort «t beabad god : 
ibawl » men wh amet .quleew ot ov im ond on @yiaell 


2 } ’ ; My VAL 1 i ze “ velo) avi vod) sud 
0 goidan nm 

yin ’ { 1 ‘ fo 2atnie selois 1 nal Brit] al : 

A i. rortey en ai) decd nwa anh to (0 tit 
: crive Jftorn nk in 3119 f yom Ohiw mine 


ideiour aw? filer sy fal ts bate bow mam 5 
: urevvtoes iSornge eed eric wordt to d 63 sgh we 
mud tee —a1 8. ne inew) 2.009 
ic dl dio je elt enop ban atog MRO (DVS 


b= 9504 el 3 raittive Get. averw ef foods pew! 


ce bos bowene iad eee 

i) vibewelq oft od Lnewd tio joy gnived odw, sigue 

32 retiy iu it) Witale ‘Ty © ver Lica bib ovnivort 

ra ntper ) ai ay ceeld vhiketey asuerisiniveds le livibni nigalayv b 

nou yniooo zeae bat Shae ined) te seb weorde ols b pie vine 

itatigty lnnotcd Tia om doi tives velqntes tod? yinw oi yoigede sud bee 
ow silt avd veel bhow ot to syeffd tery off to emnemarsidce ynibariziuo + aT 
. sbos! sod" riadr boval odw omndt te 

ogeunakl (hyadt adi root oder uoy bloe'W Snides niloanit od? yoursh woy blue 
mot oder vev blyeW “saan of sila Bar Me of soiteui dV?” soil lseoemen 4 oft 
vond vorlt vol reeset sept vaist” ywoteid [le ni noieengzs omildue sow nds aldif ods 


“sob york smile den 








es ait bet. oA tot ae ia now ods word bachos) mos) wees gay hinoW 
ote bir—rvicanst bo fry ofl leysl voy blue'W tt rnned Lolenaae wee lo on. 
7 cd +. 7° 


nt sanaifini ge'dones Lae oowe ole shiw eneiminorn bene wi Me bee 
Wel enbot viowcl vino et al len Whiew wor eZ Sane Jo aneot at no 
-boodrarltoywd ‘wasting to. ceegol too od? yoithest bee dom gainer a aed 
Sarit eg itl ae vienies ah lo evita od) dive ob of igen hand ae do youn 
















vs 









a 
‘fe > 





| 
a 


1 






Eastern Shore——Continued 


We did not lay out its boundaries, few of us have planted its trees. We found it when 
we came—carved out of the wilderness by strong men and noble women, who have left 
the impress of their lives upon its buildings, 2nd the work of their hands upon its fields. 

They bequeathed to us a glorious heritage. Shall we not tenderly cherish and pre- 
serve the relics of that past from which we emerged? We who are writing the history 
of the future, eagerly turn to the book of the past, and within its sacred pages find 


wisdom, strength, and a renewed faith in God. 


W. C. THURSTON. 





TEL eLelbgot ORY OF THE SHORE 


Take the name (The Eastern Shore) with you, 
Take it everywhere you go; 

Take its glory, fellow traveler; 
Tell the story o’er and o'er. 


Take its roads of magic beauty— 
Take the beat of ocean’s roar; 

Take the fields of waving grain; 
Fertile gold mines of the Shore. 


Take the note of—‘Hello, Stranger! 
Glad to meet you, come again;” 
_ Take the white sails of the Chesapeake 
Beating out to open main. 


Take the blessings God has given— 
Clustering ’round its fertile shores, 
Take the welcome that awaits 
Visitors to this home of yours. 


’ Take her peaches—ruby tinted, 
Take the strawberries—glistening red, 
Take the rose whose blush outrivals 
Those that bloom where Caesar bled. 


' Take the glory of her skies— 
Blue as ever skies were blue; 
Take her people happy hearted, 
‘True as ever men were true. 


Take the witchery of the moonlight, 
And the cattle on the moor, 
Take the spires of noble structures— 

And the welcome open door. 


Take the name (The Fastern Shore) with you; 
Take it everywhere you go; 

Take the glory and the greatness 
Of the marvelous Fastern Shore. 


WC TERS DON 


Page Twenty Three 































tadw 3st howl oi zon 2) he ger! ato wot vest 


iol svar ody womaw aklon. tems 2 ed eeonysbliw 
ablad en ooqge ehond vil Ye wy ( jud ot 
nq ben drial yhobaar 6A ow | tad aupivoly a, 


giomel off yatnaw a6 ody wy Skeagroms ow sividder ord 
hawk 2oyeq boven a oui hee greg air Fo dood sett. o 
© Sbop ni died bovemn & 








“OTeEAUBT D..W 


AMO? IMT 1O TROT FHT LAT 
vor div (node atid alT) omen ods odeT = 





(Oy wy weduigeys 1 ode T ) 
alae wally oly ot aleT ek ees: 
A¥o bas vo yume wii HsT 7k 
—“nied srgem do chen ai odsT 
wate G8990 tO Teed oft adn T —— 
ont Qoivew de zbled od ole — 


sion 2436 zeit flay shins 


"rages? jolsl"—Io aon ol) ole T 
“Vga wet .woy der o7 bal) 

Jempieo ol Yo whine sitive sel) ol T 
Anh 30 61100 gaidestl 


~—fntng 2hd bOky eyntveskd ada aoleT 
vol sitet eit bauer’ gahored> 
ene dors Srsculaw oh oleT 
enw te srctmal’ 2itls ot croaei'V 


wborind ydor-Sewtseed aot aabeT ie 
her parhaialy -2abelvenae Mae 
Amviviag thitd seoriw orn ot sdeT 
-Loid ree) siedy moO) tcf: seod'T 
~ tats ral To. yroly oint ; 
sould tagw asic 19¥D be) we Pa 
Ua Sin ao aeye pre: * wal 





ZOTEHUNT .O 


- 


a ree ve | 


Gastern Shore sage: Continued 


ADIOS, GOOD OLD BASTERN SHORE 


Land of my ancestors t am icath that we 
should peri, 

And to say farewell most sincerely 
I deplore, . 

For you have kindied burning fires deep 
within my heart-— 

And I have learned to love you, 

Geod Old astern Shore! 


Tho’ the cold, bleak winter-time may rob 
you of your sheen, 

Cloak your weaith of warmth with snow, 
ice-inerust your shore. 

Hide the grandeur of your foliage and 
fade its green; 

It cannot mar your beauty, 

Good Old Hastern shore! 


That beauty so rich and rare that comes 
with early spring, 

When the whistling Northwind becomes a 
Zephyrous score— 

And sad, discouraged snow-birds retreat 
on quickened wing: 

There’s naught that can surpass you, 

Good Old Eastern Shore! 


Altho’ winter smiles upon the sturdy 
sprouts of wheat— 

And other ‘‘truck’”’ is safely tucked away 
in store, 

Spring-time will enhance your farms and 
make them more replete— 

And by far more bountiful, 

Good Old Eastern Shore! 


Enchanted Wicomico, majestically 
serene, 

Seems to whisper legends of ancient 
Ind’an lore, 

Echoes them among the pines, along 
its winding stream—— 

Then returns them to your heart, 

Good Old Eastern Shore! 


But the Friendships that you offer, 
loyal and sincere, 

Enduring Friendships that will cling 
forever more, 

Make you appear more beautiful and 
by far more dear, 

Because you gave me I‘viends like these, 

Good Old Eastern Shore! 


MARIE L. SHERWOOD 
New Orleans, La. 2/11/3 
(Dedicated to the Eastern Shore of the Deimarvian Peninsula) 


Page Twenty Four 





















AO TER A EO AOOD 3 

oe wif Seek wad wrebeonas Om ‘ 
ag 

eroreottia ont Hnwedah. 46 

qiebh eorh mathaared 


ox ob 


‘wiolh widdeke Ri) noo? 


dor ‘cnet sett ieiiete steele Doo si) ott 
“ enle so to ore. 

june aliw dvinw Ye diinew aioe te08D 
eons wie 2ubvent-oot 

vin sata? m6 10 teehee oti oft 
ety ab oball 


4 a tes Monn I 
tear Pcie bio Lbow 


wae $4: offi bie M608 yhised suit 
: sant? vives vite 

y eo; ivmeliton sari ect doit? 
<i alnat iiaes 

iasiiot epald-wooe Dageioo!b. tie bod 
=a ‘git betetatup fo 

uot exaqaue Heo (geld dgied n'aveniT 

‘none nee BIO heap 


tbi0%« aft nogs Agia salary *ouahtA 
; —-jwwie to suoTda 
iawn boteows cides al “shout! taijo bod 


2 a 
bas septa? 10% vec asers dita opitt-yritsg® 
ads vronit qiteal? sabes 
Jehned ey wi ud bad 
‘witha a ad pom) ; 


vile metodt cohen W batuntnS 


J 


lasjomk Vhs abneunt ‘wayetiw o! eutous 
- rab av hol 
yiola oui af? pabntE 4 
- Mibetie ’e a 


a 
fc 

Jed vite er Hot ase? 
‘wide cra oon 













ban Witte So Tea tee wf 
r- eet eo) 


oor Ail coi a 
Towsilt, ieep 

OW TAMA Lie ; or: 
eel wl WhO ear e ; 
i aiuanitot cubetaeh Bi Io ool arsed edror 





Gastern Shore 


EASTERN SHORE INSPIRATIONS 
BY MARGARET PERRY 


Continued 


Ivy. 


If I could choose from all the plants that grow 
The rarest bloom, the loveliest of them all, 
The fairest rose, or aster in the fall, 

The orchid strange, or crocus in the snow, 
The lily of the valley, or a row 

Of stately hollyhocks against a wall, 

Not one would be my choice. Instead I’d call 
To mind the ivy and on it bestow 

The accolade of favorite. To see 

It drip, like water green, all cool and crisp, 
From withered tree, is to behold a sight 

So restful and so pleasing that to me 
Naught can be fairer. No, not e’en a wisp 
Of floating cloud reflecting heav’nly light. 


LANDSCAPE. MOCKING BIRDS. 
The night is hot. 

A thin mist veils 

The wooded outline 

Of the farther shore, 
While in between 

The waters of the creek 
Lie calm and listless 
And discouraged blue. 


How am I roused from out my sleep? 
’Tis call of bird——a tiny cheep 
So faint my heart stands still to hear 
The joyous note. In panic fear 
I listen, lest in dark night deep 
The bird affrighted fail to keep 
Sudden a beam of light The promise made, <A joy to reap! 
Jrradiates the surface Such heav’nly sounds break on my ear! 
Of the silent water. How am I roused! 
- poet ane glows The bird sings on. With glorious sweep 
1 mae Ao wine calm The pattern grows. From out the steep 
But stretching far Of pine tree old the mate sings clear; 
A vibrant palpitating Their voices blend in song so sheer 

Of aching rapture that I weep— 


Sheet of gold, 
] ickening light 
piagyePigers: 0) ae ne 2 How am I roused! 


Of the full June moon. 


EARLY SPRING. — RAIN JEWELS. 


The elm tree stands fair 
Decked with the jewels of rain. 


Peach blossoms blooming, 
The myriad drops 


Despite the cold that lingers 
To kiss young Spring. 


Cling to the budding bare boughs 
Like precious pearls from the deep. 


Page Twenty Five 


niria tad 


hewntiwe. 


cKOUT AST MAOH MATTERS 
YAI TAHA YO 


6 
iia ater ! 
AM 


AOofte a 


liaw on ten 
ites ht fue 


. 


riiste 


1 oft jerf) 


{ary : 
scf5i! 












eas 


jnola “ip the moto itnoo 11 
To teallaves elt nea tee ofT 
od! Ob a¥ten 1 tor wetted saT 
1) ith 01 A eae bidow sat 
wor 2.10 ,eeliae ot) Jo zit oft 
Sagia ree tisiata 10 

vert mak itow sir te, 
wiheyd 6 Ves vv our haim oT 
oe OF altibvel tu tbeloote adT 
loony La s90ed. aster ait ixh 31 
a bidod of =] ett boweiite cord 
aes on brn lolianr 08 


vu gon yale) Od ok) tdguav 


Unt FIA ie 
mule we ito mat feseot ) mn won 
1s 13 #-—=fitrd Jo ao at 
ail it sod vor nied a2 
ta tul si wogmbart 
qes Aish) gi tend fatal 7 
ra of panoivita hall wit 
wy VOL i obut salmon? gnT 
1 dear! ahatioe vii aod dae 

hh ] ink wwii 
7 : iLO “iis tid ef 
fFon0 (uN Sot uaa etT 
inelo watie ainia 471) ble goal oilg w 
mene on ance ol bush pabloveied? 


gosh silt 





qaaw 1 sata 


‘Beano | 


vutger golden 10 


ms woH 


AIAWAL 


v7 


FY 


/teyrease 


cist in alin 


adavod 


wt! 


mer) 


avid ying sy69 
hua 


in a 


7 


a we 


Via 


+99! mtg aT 


od) ila feds 
aque alitnn fT 
utblatd: ay al ani 


q polar Praree 


via veer gallseier teols aatrach. 20 


AP wea 


od # idata ofT 
‘eftev tele old? A 
eulline hehboow sdT 
ioe todrial »ft IO 
neowsod ai sid 
4997 94) Yo 215)0w ofT 
Pe eirg bes alan okt 
depanueceb bak 
YY» tfe0d « a9 
a ac Aon oti apiath 
Tain Inotle odd 
*wolg has exolg 
tel ow f 
ini ould (lub awed? 
11 paldysovta Joy 
a luetdivy A 
,hieg to / 
wiait auitstolup odt ede 
00m cael Uet ad? 


- 27098 Linas 
Bateoott agoreold doe 

evbyatt 18) blor ott ¢ 
, se ee 






















: Eastern Shore—Continued 


AN HASTERN SHOREMAN’S 
TOAST TO HIS WIPE. 


If I have you thru storm and stress— 
Your hand to guide—your love to bless; 
Your smile to light the way along— 
Your voice to sing love’s sweetest song; 
T’ll walk with nobler purpose true— 
Life’s weary way because of you; 

Nor ever will the light grow dim 

Of high resolve to fight and win. 


Bravely I’ll face what comes of rue, 

My soul undaunted because of you; 

If I have you—tho seas be wide, 

Tho wind and wave and treacherous tide, 
Break o’er me with resistless sweep— 
As deep as Fundy’s tides are deep, 

Ill swerve not from a purpose true, 
While chart and compass, sweet, are you. 


W. C. THURSTON. 


PEERLESS WOMAN 


Dedicated to the fair daughters of 


the Eastern Shore 


Peerless—incomparable woman; 
Sweet flower of fair design; 
Man forever thy devotee— 

Your heart forever his shrine. 
Naught but beauty and charm 
Could wield so great a power; 
Where in Nature’s luxuriance— 
Blooms so sweet a flower? 
Gracious—incomparable woman; 
Sweet flower of fair design; 

Of the earth a part—to heayen akin, 
Both human and divine. 


W. C. THURSTON. 


Page Twenty Six 


THE GIRL FROM 
THE EASTERN SHORE. 


Of all the laughing lassies— 

And beauties by the score, 

The sweetest—fairest of them all 
Is the girl from the Hastern Shore. 





Her name? well, it doesn’t matter, 
But her smile—the brightest ever, 
Is a flashing dart none could resist, 
So kind is she—and clever. 





Her girling grace and youthful charm 
Of womanly all-completeness, 
Enthralls and holds us one and all, 
In the spell of her natural sweetness; 


Old fashioned? not a bit of it, 

Just kind and thoroly human, 

A child unspoiled in the count of years, 
With the tender soul of a woman. 


Ah, Little girl from the Eastern Shore, 

You brighten each weary mile 

With the cheering rays of your winsome . 
ways 

And the sunshine in your smile. 


W. C. THURSTON. 


TO A DAUGHTER OF THE SHORE, 


Her voice held healing 
In its cadences; 

Her smile uplifted 

And her touch beguiled. 
Perhaps somewhere 

She walks in beauty yet, 
Admiring angels 
Following her steps. 


LYNDON HESS, 
Upper Fairmount, Md. 


ne cca 


$A 


VO 11 ART 
aoe LOTS aT 


soieent anttidaal off He Io 

ster al “eb = “Th era hitéA 

fbn cpadd? Ps tevminl—leetaoe oT 
yrods: wt af #4) mov Wie } at 


ofan Sf owob 3) taw sudiebi ead 

1077 iostsinivad eff Atfage orl 3 
Jie, blo eaen Neh wdidest 2 af 
tuyely boa-—dda aba oe 


oryeds twidhwot Don soe aA aOR 
eniaiel itor ie ¢ Oamiow 10 

ite hoa ant aébied he at{eitina 
Mtloewe Leurton Tet Yo Howe sil? at 


Ji Yo th w ton Thenaitiend 10 

conmy vloyod) ary hea eet 

ifs? Yo javo af) at hatiognna Dit 
smtow € Wo itda rebatol off 114 


104 Jaa «dt aio) inhe aifttd fA 

or eraew sas gonidinad wot 

iaauniw ites Yo avae anthroallas off re 
ata 


afitge toey aiadideaoe ef) hak 


vorTrextut  .w 
One TT TO. eTPHeETA ROOT 


gittzetl bho ostey tHe 
‘Heeb wih ol 
berilija ullite webs, 
.bolicas foray red AoA 
sileentes sqedret 

Joy erretd of edlaw afB 
eleyne gubtimbA 

pe sed gniwatiot 


aed AOWAV 
DM juuorrniad seqyth. 


dirt 978 Joowe enautoe baa sree) 


ion atelnoH arts 



















eto: hnteive savel aie eo 

sn) egg pt 
{HOY Yor outtnoed 

ori waves ninth out t 

iw bane sieht at schon 


eit To asttos Jailw on wis 

toy Yo setnoed bonmabam ft 
able od ease of —toe 4 

obit seyedyepw bos ovew bas 

-—19owe seolitiess GW ee 
qeeb ue aebh wehes@ es 

tt esiqted @ avert Jom 


woreauut ow 


Yo etetdgdah aaY 


‘ seamen em iterate 


shh ioe ane 4 
onivib & 
MOTrenuH? 0. Oe dain 


1 aa’ ay 


Gastern Shore 





ISLE 0’ ‘TYEAL 
By GRACE PAVIS VANAMEE 


O Isie o’Deal, O Isle o’Deal, 

I long for you tonight, 

I long to see your curving shore, 
And that far distant light; 

To hear again your lapping waves 
Right at our very door, 

As oft in fancy far away 

I hear them o’er and o’er. 


Chorus 


O Isle o’Deal, O Isle o’Deal, 
I cannot tell you all I feel, 
Or all you mean to me; 

But this I know, 

Where’er I go, 

My heart returns to thee, 
My heart returns to thee. 


O Isle o’Deal, O Isle o’Deal, 

What joy your waves to ride, 

And there with foam-flecked rod and 
line 

Fish out a flooding tide; 

Or maybe at the twilight hour 

To find some darkening pool, 

And cast for rock, just hoping that 

Your luck may bring a school. 


O Isle o’Deal, O Isle o’Deal, 

I know your stormy hours, 

Your thunder and your lightning, 
And your sudden, pelting showers. 
I’ve sailed your bay with seas so rough 
We had to run to port, 

But all the same—dear Chesapeake, 
Your roughest seas are sport. 


O Isle o’Deal, O Isle o’Deal, 

The tears are near my eyes 

When I recall the happy days 
Beneath your changing skies; 

I know not which I love the most, 
Your dawns, or sunsets rare, 

But this I know, each passing hour 
Is sweet beyond compare, 


O Isle o’Deal, O Isle o’Deal, 

I love you day or night, 

For when your Southern sun is high 
You are a bonny sight; 

But when the moon with silver sheen 
Is lacquering your sand 

There is no fairer spot on earth 

Than moon-kissed Maryland, 


U Isle o’Deai, O Isie o’Deal, 

Your charms are manifold, 

But though of sea and sky I’ve sung 
The halt has not been told; 

For after all the secret lies 

In love and friendship dear, 

And there’s an Island home I know 
That radiates good cheer, 


O Isle c’Deal, Q Isle o’Deal, 

fo veur loved Eastern shore 

Whea my kind friends have left it, 
I shal] return no more; 

They gave me of their very best, 

A love that hallowed all the rest, 
And made that Island home at Deal 
In very truth a Land o’Leal. 


Epilogue to “ISLE O’ DEAL” 


O Isle o’Deal, O Isle o’Deal, 

Your skies are dark tonight 

For she who made you dear to us 

Has passed beyond our sight; 

No more her welcoming voice we’ll hear 
Nor see her outstretched hand, 

For she has passed the portal 

Into the better land. 


Seven happy years she gave to us 
A royal welcome here; 

Seven years she grew to be to us 
A friend both near and dear, 
And now our hearts are aching 
With those she loved the best 
And together we are praying 
God give her endless rest. 


The “Isle O’Deal’’ was written in 1925 
and dedicated to Mrs. May Anderson who 
was then the proprietor of the Anderson 
Hotel on Deal Island, Maryland. Deal 
Island is in the Tangier Sound of Chesa- 
peake Bay, and a part of the picturesque 
Eastern Shore Section. 

The Epilogue to the “Isle O’Deal” was 
written in memory of Mrs. Anderson on 
the night of her death, October 18, 1932. 


--G. D. V. 


Page Twenty Seven 





yew singe ’ ae 


Aa 'O ates 7 p 
WIMARAT B40 A TOAD Al 


a 


aiat-O tutte ofef-y 
bisjinem ste whois Wet 

gi ov't 2h a5é¢ Yo Agtods 16k 
ihe at forte eet Mad oils 
i! i4vgee odd, He satan 

neh gitehostitt bab praia 
mua bildfe)} nee moa) hither 
soils BoOg RAIRThOT watt 


Aacti'o afel DO jnett's ofl Oo 
gr niomRea feral soe wT 


Jnuito 


Vihsiad 


el svat adbaoltt beth ya ure 
nett Ol GUS i a i 
jaa! toov tied’ to-om eva eee 

vw 1} howabllid jail avatar 
funtl 3 got Duotel tly oho Aaa 
inet o DAL a iin era ii 

PAM 'O OLLI of senting 
te » ulal O neta ofaDo 
> i ‘7 stay wey 
ives obudr oul ante fa 
ins hiaved 744 Shh 
: 4 f ie) in| a o% 
14 To “r} cae Wot 
eng ts Deer eyit nt ae 
hial vwtied add alat 
iv i avea gua ieee Omi (. n97ar 
; Te Bia did lye A 
ue wir if invie 
j ; { ii tied tae vied 4 
sit in -tygoil se wen hud 
| iesVal atte ewadl ny 
and dn + Wihiene) hea 


ven vod ovta hul 


. 1297 Beut 


cShl of nevlnw ecw “‘teetl’O olel” odT 
ole voesBnA vel olf o) hateolbob dna 
iomebaA «elt To tolabnpod off madd xn 
Iyott bootiviol \Paetel feetl vo long 
-ot Yo hittoe veiganT off mb wt Basta 
erpratwiila sia iy deta o lite en osbeen 
Hutt ee pied wetland 
dow “tat OQ sisi" otf ir niqoitentd oftT 
a) poriubasA eM Wi grommet al aobtfay 


Ef@! 4! s4donO .spash tod To teeln Oat 


Vas? 


novee yicoawT oped 




























- 


store aaty 
reba 
sever aeiquyal m8, 


neue a0 “ 


oe here sth ga 
erin) 
laed'a otal © 


tow The #04 
isd a) : 


- worl? o} aqui 
ail) OF aut 


Jinet!’o elal © 
hit Go) tevaw THe" 
bap ber hedivetmad? die vedi 


‘ahi! agibeot a 400m 

“ipod Jetylliwa ed) te edqam - 
Juoq patondrab a(toa ban « 

iar! antigen me) oo To? teas” 
jogos « ncixd “au doui 


jwet'o olet O Jnod'o olal O 

some rent0d4 THe 3 

soldat aweoy baa teh 

evade aiiiieg mehhue 

deuce eens Die vad ise hel 
ted of at oF 

‘s8n9q 009 seab—omne off: 

Drege via aso | 


Jeed’a lal O notte 8 
eyo Vik Won oes 
aead waned of} | 


aia eat dave t 
Jevor at ovol 








Eastern Shore 


Continued 
FAIR EASTERN SHORE OF MARYLAND BACK TO THE EASTERN SHORE 
How often does the little babe When the subtle charm of springtime 


Long for its mother’s tender care; 


/ Comes stealing thr 
At eve, how welcome is the nest . Sp heygooy, 


To the fowl of the sea and air: It stirs my heart to memories—happy 
The weary man—dying with thirst, memories 

Whose soul once parched, Of the dear old Eastern Shore. 
Now thrives again; 

What thinks he of God’s all-wise power, I see again the whitecaps break, 
That saved him with a shower of rain? And hear old ocean’s roar, 

As a babe longs for its mother’s care, Where tossing pines their vigil keep 
As shelter to the birds of air; Down on the Eastern Shore. 

As man to God with soul set free, 

So does my heart e’er long for thee, A small white cottage, I recall, 

Fair Eastern Shore of Maryland! With roses around the door; 


My happy home of childhood days 


How often do the faint at heart Gnithedcariold Wastern Shore 


Long for a day of rest and ease, 
In spring, how welcome is the thought— 


Of Nature’s gift of flowers and trees, And when I come to the long trail’s end, 





The man, whose sight once failed to serve, Do this before I go, 
Who lived in darkness, morn till night, Carry me back to the land I love 
How does he long to worship Him, Back to the Eastern Shore. 


Who restored once more the gift of sight. 

There let me rest beneath the soil 
As the Leg opl seek for days of ease, Whose name I proudly bore, 
As man with Nature's gifts is pleased, : Zz 
As those once blind, now rejoice to see, And lay my tired body down 


So does my heart rejoice in thee, To sleep on the Eastern Shore. 
Fair Eastern Shore of Maryland! 


ETHEL R. RANEY Bye aALMY 2 SNOW? 
Maiwier Gf acuity Pennsylvania Military College, 


Salisbury Elem. School No. 2. Chester, Pa. 





MOMENTS OF PEACE 


Weary and worn, I stole a moment to sit on my kitchen doorstep while the evening 
meal was cooking. Quietly, so unlike his usual boisterous self, my dog came and sat 
down beside me—resting his head on my knee. 

The slanting rays of the setting sun had vividly etched against the gold of the 
western sky, an outline of the village. It was a beautiful picture. From within the 
house came the homey smell of cooking food; beside me my dog sat in silent companion- 
ship. My weariness was forgotten. 

For the quict hour in which to meditate, and the love and companionship of the 
faithful dog; for the glory of the setting sun—the peace and calm of the countryside; for 
the cosy home nestling among the trees, and the tea kettle singing its age-old song, I was 
grateful. It was one of life’s rare moments of peace. 


MYRTLE JACKSON, Parsonsburg, Md. 





Page Twenty Eight 





i. 
MAO cis.” 5 me by ¥A' P 


WHA ZiATALe GMT OF BDA OF RATALIW os iene 





















































mitacinios te aves sitdwe oft petwW or oh. 
7 f)} yvdi2 aattiwge amano . : Da aa acy 
erga Jsiowreimn of tyged vit erie sie sede oy i \s : 
; ita nem etl) die aniehb—anm 
maint bin taah off 10 =a el 
Alege @ a wind » 
di ie sit) alage ese | 19w0q vaiw-ile e’ bell fo od xtutily Si 


txod BoA Totur to Tw oie a Alive mig 
an! oY ered ¥/ vein 2 ‘yee et! 202 nynot 
no wel tle lo shrid edt ar + 


hye 


297) Son tba asiw hot? ‘oi ‘nat 
itor Gains A rol) 10) geet to'o FORO Ve ae 
cary: ‘buakrials V6 HOE eivshy 
gaa ALA 


ny a true tn jotal of) OF 
wi? 20) hon lev’ to Tab 
ek ) [7 «i sanrwlow wo 

- ) Tf : wwon aT. nis a 

i982 of balla] sone idan eect 

: : ' : 1 cent somal oF 
eT ; rH qiderow of gaef on 
' Jilata Ye Vite el! som oone boro 


‘ : 7. to eveh ta ee 7 7 
ort 2. i . 
{ 7 . ' yj uttiy wine eh semen 
Tie; Pa: al weve nila ete ~~ } 
ar . 4 4 “ST | 4 treed <M 
"biralvielé tn @ 702 wred 
TS440 A IFRS 
1 Jen med lo qdoneV io 
7 & 6% leodo® .1e6l@ ¥ venta 
oe ge ae! 
SOLAN FO @TAsaMoM r 
amases alt oh qaseoob aodaid 7m ao tie oF tnsmom slow | ewe 2 
ixet bre Sifiis eoly ‘fl VM 4ua't etod laaseu aid stilou ol uh nut) Le boy sa 


Fr 


sand yen no bed. gid 3 LN 


mt dey Liog orly eligi bodys vihiviv bed au ynitioe ot In ever ary 
mM oduw mol .myig lulaedin sen a saallee of: to sniftue Me, gale 


ApMegmp) tsi at tse yoloven opt abies :book ynideos to Maen toriad oft 
ao wl aw sat 

2 Yo ve vol id bee iatibom o doiive ai wort dois 

1 solikya att Ter erties. bot aogect Sele anit od? to qolgearle 


env | ‘Hilim IhO ope 2 ynininne slned wai 9A bate eat oct yRorris seen sa 
’ cate | 14 ammom nin 2H ig ano | on 3 


; 4 
bhM ude: AOeA ALF. raw Je a ne 
. 


Eastern Shore—Continued 


EATIN’ (ROUND ON THE KAST’?RN SHO’, 


Eatin’ ’round on the EKast’rn Sho’ An’ don't forget—chicken and waffles, 


Is plumb choc full o’ pleasure, But I ain’t halfway thru, 

Cookin’ down there is one o’ the arts, Fresh eggs for breakfast—country ham, 
An’ the meals are made to measure. - An’ lots of other goodies, too. 

I like the way they go about it— Writin’ a book an’ paintin’ a pictur’ 
Down on the East’rn Sho’, May be the highest art, 

Now take Miss Lindy, gosh, she’s cute! But the grub they cook on the East’rn 
An’ her smile says “have some more?”’ Sho’ 


Gets closer to the heart. 
Berlin—Salisbury—Cambridge town— 


Or any o’ them pictur’ places; You c’n find them eatin’ places 
Soft crabs—fish, fried chicken—gee! Anywhere ’round on the Sho’ 
Your stomache kicks o’ the traces, Right spick and span—and neat and trim, 
Most anywhere you go. 








I disremember ali the names, 


But one is the English Grill, Watermelons in season, an’ cantaloupes 
An’ darn my cats, if what they serve Sweet an’ fine; 
Ain’t wuth just twice the bill! Just grab a spoon and dig in, boy, 


It’s good clear down to the rine, 
Talk about sump’n good to eat— 


You ain’t had no eatin’ a tall An’ when Miss Lindy comes (the waitress) 

Till you taste that food on the East’rn Lookin’ like a sunkissed peach, 
Sho’, 4 You tell her quick—but kindly like, 

Winter—spring or fall. “Say, Kid, keep out o’ my reach.’’ 
Say, man, I’m tellin’ you true— Eatin’ ’round on the East’rn Sho’ 

That’s the place to feed; Is what makes life wuth livin’, 
Where you always get your belley full— An’ this ain’t a lot of boost and brag, 

An’ the kind o’ food you need. It’s just a tip I’m givin’. 


Fresh fish—potatoes—Maryland biscuit, All right then, if you doubt my word, 


Wait, just let that car go by, Before you raise any shindy, 
An’ country ham and turnip greens Just eat a meal at the English Grill— 
Topped off with apple pie. And swap a smile with Lindy; 


Note: this classic was received thru 
the mail—-author unknown. Presumably 
.the place referred to is the English Grill— 
formerly Thompson’s, at Salisbury. 








“Here’s to the Enemies of the Eastern Shore; may they al’ays sail in leaky 
’ chunks, with choked pumps, tempest tossed, compass lost, moldy bread and windy 
head—and on a winter’s coast! And as for the man who won’t drink this toast, ° 
may he sink at sea in an open boat and be swallowed by a whale and the whale by the 
devil and the devil in hell with the doors locked and the keys lost and a blind man 
hunting for them. And there may he sit, on a cold stone in the sou’west corner of 
hell, with a nor-easter blowing ashes in his face for all eternity! G....d.... his 
soul!”’ 





NOTE: We don’t know who penned this classic, and if we did, we wouldn’t tell. 


Page Twenty Nine 






































launbieo 


Oe var nee: anew wait 


waMew fia as (Aosta) Veoh hs 
uN Yowhind Pein 1 jon 
ad 2nne iecitanoddl 4 “aa 
vo) asiioos. radiate esal “2A + SOI Geen 


vig o ‘niswing ‘on dood oat 
is teniwt of) wd va 
243 of) nu Whoo 45aF thong Bela ao 2 one aa 4 
“are “To10m emor overt pt 
eet at ut yenuls haw 
-—A FO? sebirdarg)> 


*yyuliy ‘itu oly Red oS Boe ; sedi 3a 
ofm oft ao tent’ @roriwyeel +S8—10s vido hated aan 
puta) 4 ti nei Opi wets hits a) Tie jdgint Brat Sy ods * o eave 


ea day ottece ol 


aentea of) Ua.) 
Wtcisjuc ft feu @) etelegrtin vy] thy deilgad “ee 
‘ont “Ge sree aviee Yous Jndw Ml ates 
wd (Ol gib besa tdhoge a hela feel = ‘itd od) oolwd Jaut 


ani “3 os nob wiéie bode we ha 

-~—ite OF boos f'qmia. 

J) sedtoo “boll el oedvetnnk Us! » ‘aliag of bed’ 

inoog be<viditve u oat! Riood cateed el) ae bool. sedg ee 
Lefti 3 hi—iiobton Ved ilef poy 

ri (no qpod bial yu lal to ashien- 


“A si) go bunor ‘atad out) wow “alile: ot eee, 
i atin | fan Jad al heel of ooelq ony i-% 
® Tut yal] iy) BO 2 ie edt EA, ily) galled iow ea #1 5M 1e wOR 
jivie wd ai) ; bt eH 400 vat bool 'o babi adf! ’ 
ny doh nor TH fet fdalr HA Sita Inailya elt —es01830q-—<talt 33 
tan Salat (OF stale 7 #8 ws ods dol seat 
iia -# Ta ety da Loi eres Jet 4U0%%S diuve! bue mad 


rout whi offi « Quwe baAé la shieqge ditiw 20" boana a 


fired : ‘suo! cow feenio, wis iatok 
guar 29 ‘agnALY tidiieinm addy 
Hfiat della lt 2) OF ho@TrSie% soelq ods 
ive Je « aoegmedT? year 


bids 
(dest ni lige ea le weil) qem ;s1od2, dupe eH 90 asiaia@ eth oF 
(vam fire heagd vblonwt ol iquioo ouket leeqate? anerity bodort» 
tesor wdt Ath Tier oily da ot) WOT Sh GA Manos weesew a aed 
- aft vel win wowl) ban oludw neds a ual bie Jnod aoqe aa ol coe 
taw bpitd & bis 24) avod oolt Dua bedgol efagh and tise led ai esh 
ld 450 af Ae oll my Ausils hie? & GO dial he anode bik v a py ge wages 
tite... ...,9 >oONee ie mb cial zi of patten sarrold tlw, ; ‘ 


Le 2 ae Mes 
7 3s 


- 


a4 
Met Sabliien of” ith ow 1 tar leant eb bedney odw word raub 


ont vinewT age4 





Gastern Shore 


I’M GLAD I'M LIVING YHR, SWEET T4TER—SWHET. 
ON THE EASTERN SHORE. 
Frercth fried potatoes may tempt you, 


-Continued 


I’m glad I’m living on the Eastern Shores; And such « delectable dish; 
This second Paradise with an open door. Q; potatoes aa gratin—- 
The beautiful scenery—the weather so fiae, Or ereamed, if you please, 
Fashioned, I know, by a hand divine. They all go weli with the fish; 
It’s a fisherman’s delight for’ a record .- 
ate Abe But the best of ’em ail 
And a sportsman’s joy that none can Wher you dig in the fall 
match, fn . . 


And store ’em away in the bin, 
Is the sweet tater grand— 
Be ijt Hayman or Yam— 
Theat would tempt an archangel to sin 


Oh if I were only an Edgar Guest— 
That I might find words to truly express 
The beauty and splendor around my door, 
Of this dear land——the Eastern Shore. 


I am glad I’m living on the Eastern Shore, Nea ae ae Wie pag crs 

Where the folks are real, and what is tere was plenty to eat, 
more, Tho mankind was due for a fall, 

Where hospitality just can’t be beat Bere Ue or al aay Slaton) 

In the old-time style—that was such a G04 made the sweet tater, 





treat. And that was the best of ’em all. 
There’s a cheerful greeting—-where e’er 

you be, And dewn on the Sho’ 
A handclasp strong, and a smile, you see; Where the sweet taters grow, 
From all the good folks, old and young, And ithe women are lovely and sweet, 
With a southern drawl on every tongue. The juice of the vine 
There’s joy in living to love and adore, Might get you a fine— 
This dear old land——the Eastern Shore. But you’re safe 


With the sweet tater-sweet; 
LILLIAN WATSON, 
Salisbury; W. C. THURSTON. 


A TRIBUTE FROM TENNESSEE TO THE SHORE 





I come from the hills—where the purple peaks outlined against the sky—salute 
the morning sun. Where little children gather flowers on the jagged mountain side, 
and love is found in humble cabin homes. 

Born amidst the monarchs of the range, I knew the paths across the mountain, and 
the rocky road that led to the sunlit valley below. Inured to the rugged life of the 
mountaineer, and the labyrinthian trails of the forest primeval, I was happy. 

Reluctantly I left my native State to take up a residence in Maryland. But I came— 
I saw, and I was conquered. The wide expanse of cocean filled me with wonder and awe. 
The wanderlust left my soul—a willing captive. I surrendered to the charms of this 
delightful Peninsula, and here I have made my home. 

Back in Tennessee the eternal hills are keeping watch and ward over the ashes of 
my ancestors—a sturdy home-loying folk who never knew the tang of the sea. 

Your State—and mine, have bound me with the ties of love and friendship. Here I 
have met splendid women—and strong men who go down to the sea in ships. In this 
flower spangled bit of Eden is deep rooted my vine and fig tree. 

With Ruth I can say—your people shall be my people and your Gods shall be my 
Gods. And when the day’s at end—when I have crossed the great divide, if perchance 
I am ushered in thru the golden gates, Ill ask the angels to sing in lieu of any heavenly 
song—simply “Maryland—My Maryland.” 


Excerpt from an address delivered by the late “Plain Bill’ Simpson 
| ms. y the i > 
at Crisheld—twenty five years ago. 


Page Thirty 





FOX 


io eorler 


bryce 


' 
Wwhnow 


oe 


oft as70 | 


' 


£6 ont 
: nat 4! beads 
tz ont 
fh oid ied 
i] sr Gi 
) Yiasveodd ity, OL 
Hoenriiie 'f 





PATE —RADAT THAWS A 


4 wectuing heivh godéra 
satudied + Aaak BHA SDTewkes peapee 


si be 


‘7 


ORR eine svit Gea —-blateis de 
























































UG 7S 


be epetlbata “0 1690. 0960 0H 
Mian AG Sale tonind ae 

iw iiew om Ue vad wal ben qo, 
+ baquey « ol itatteb. 2 


re i tev oft ivi 


a fue Poa ou ehonm saat vot » Hamatro 


> saa weet iat ~- teeg® veal wa ola TY 
nine sew Seer tye) od ahaaw, Dall de 

ay ns ‘ooh cu Sooots sobnalga bas eis wr 

Tie. sede n1otaad onie-=bernl Ueb 


wa’ win? ofetentl eft a6 auth rt "ld f 
: rt twit bon .inet ote enfot anf 


7 
= 
Iso 
a. 
f 
ne 


: few ‘,aueas odT * 
, fd pire! ad ;* mao je nt ‘ikastanod: ‘as 

rae » £1 268 jedi—olah omt)-blo- a 

’ al rf j 


‘ 
ory 


o's notw—golieoy tutreeds -s q 
bi) od oe 
on 7 ye I , atina « } te gno0Tk pen yhorras 
fi hens. anus, | blo .wllel boom of) Ma s 
4 tvagul tier~ go werk Atetiiam an 


‘M IAai yu ture ovo] ated at Yok: ad 
f wit 4 fi ae ! if nal ble 7 
! : ' ny : 
} / , LJ LJ : 
1 
OY Al2@22MKaAT MOR STAT A * 
“ ‘7 
ily q susie oft morlw 1 ol: sun) oon T 
ese 13H ag robbie : di iw be ueintod | 
mort ' is ie 
seni aidics are " binwol ei ove ; 
ie { wend ) aor wit oe vb al 


whit) witleyv 3 wh co bol tert bea yah 

M9 test of) lo iret tiniil seared if ould beta soothe 

sit Lis het OF Oe ayn dim tho! I Dnatow it 

ett i6eyeo to Saympe> sbtw ofl hones ad th te 
bombo 1 vies salle o—juoe yor Bol seubealls 

smod ‘vi, slant vved 1 otal nes aaa 

c ibm antigyad oti lid laranss orl ) ovement ni 


206) wh won 13 vast offs? Hot saprolsme wf cba £—2101 
io ~7ol fo volt sift iw sane! sre aint 2 green 
iif on oferta anu bue—esrew 
2021 gl bee setter Get feteny gash at rob 4 te 2d bolyer 

ey Lik aug Yana Htedle. Gt are: HOY ——Vle "J I out i 
» ks iy Uezoty aan? qoelev—lers 16 ev ody testy hy 

n yor of «lpane Ji Sie a" 29tGy wiley at nator 

"dub 4 —beeleveh” tre 

meld se! ot vd hop atleb eenbhe oe mel Ts ae ) 


ee 
ele . 


> = 


Continued 





Eastern Shore 


LEGENDS OF THE EASTERN SHORE 


The story is told that when Mason & Dixon were establishing the famous “Mason 
& Dixon’s line,” a litthke Dutch boy with the outfit swallowed a valuable chronometer. 
Unable to dislodge it, and suffering no discomfort, he grew to manhood with the 
chronometer merrily ticking in his breast. 


When he married, his wife was curious to know the cause of the constant tick-tick 
mingled with the beat of his heart. He told her that if she would listen closely, each 
tick would say “love.” His explanation was satistactory—and they lived happily together 
for many years. 


After his death a faint ticking was heard coming from the depths of the tomb. He 
sleeps in an old graveyard in Newark, Del., but to this day the ticking can still be heard. 








One Judge Whaley of Kent County, accusing his wife of being untrue to him, drove 
ner from his home, denying that he was the father of her infant son. He had no love 
for this child, but the boy was fond of his tather, and when he heard the true story of 
his parents’ separation, he set out to find his mother and prove her innocence. He suc- 
ceeded—with the result that his mother and father were re-united, and all was happiness 
again in what had been a stricken home. The years went by, and death called them to 
another sphere, but to this day occupants of the old house in which they lived, say that 
moans and sighs, followed by laughter are heard. The spirits of the departed re-enacting 
the scenes of the past. 





Before the coming of the pale face to the Eastern Shore, two Indian tribes—the 
Wicomico and the Iroquois, lived in what is now known as Wicomico county. Evi- 
dently there was enmity between them, but when Winona, daughter of the Chief of the 
Iroquois, met the son of the Chief of the Wicomico’s it was a case of love at first sight. 
They met clandestinely, as all lovers do, but the old Chiet discovered his daughters dis- 
affection, and shot an arrow that pierced the heart of each, pinning them together in a 
last embrace. The Indians came to pay homage to the dead lovers, and as each passed 
by the grave, he threw.a twig, or small branch on their last resting place. Perhaps the 
ceremony was repeated from year to year—no one knows, but there is a large mound near 
Salisbury which is reputed to be the grave of these unfortunate lovers. 








. “French Joe’s” light is still seen on the Wicomico river when it is stormy. Accord- 
ing to tradition, an Indian maiden first saw this light from her tent—a huge ball of fire 
in the sky that slowly disappeared. French Joe, the victim of a wreck was found by her 
next day on the beach. Utterly exhausted from suffering and exposure, he was nursed 
back to health by this kindly Indian maiden, and to her he gave his heart—receiving hers 
In return. 

But there came a day when French Joe had to leave, promising to return in a short 
time. Six weeks after his departure the light appeared again, and his sweetheart 
exclaimed “French Joe is dead.” It was true, but from that day to this the light always 
appears on stormy nights. The watermen on the Wicomico river can give no explana- 
tion for it—other than it is known as “French Joe's” light. 


Page Thirty One 




































bowriineD i nvtobed AN 


va 
cme? cdi WO VRaTena MET 40 eval 


auf” esunk) ad) peptiitiow ow aoxitl 2 noel nov Ta 
yy enonmmd, oldugloy q Levallone sip ge diy wad dontt onl 
sft dtve boorlfidm of wots { yWiemeseh oy Brinziive - ban , 

ool vida of ae 


pit-dat tentene } ’ fond of PugMs enw atin | bse od a ah 


» vise! tr, 4 tcodt ved Dhar off row aii TO toatl oly dviw roby wn 
+ vienter! ; mtu ewe aavenklyzs iH ae yne blow dois 
wt yen 
Hj edrro ; { ria Brood «ew arudow ral © itgab wd wal ” 
ry 1 SIMI , byt | ,at neal. i cysvarg t ble ne aie 


d wiltusos vier? 13 lo lel sgbal Sa, | 
toy cy 9d Jet Tt wood etl arond 
fio brant = it tue Dtirta ait 1 
1 Gy too Ris . ‘noheg a 


iG worl) yon 2h) dupe aha am, 


58 ; > ¢ moo! bas tale mn atk r 
lo wld lu a) - Atv teal ssvariqa eo 
1: Taldgual 9 reile! adge bee annem 

ee, olt lo eonaoe oil 


Le ae «sit noid 
; pal ols bas evimnesi wh 
sid sch egoathiod ysis ein see Sal 
f ‘ » tenld way : ak Pn .eup 

ut ) blo ab nwt ob ave! He 2s .“boiteobogls San god 
v3 ee Hywt seer, tor rey ore bre othe 

inn iz] OF odes af tent ~<f ogrdens nel b 

ic werd? o 1 27879 outs G 


mi ott o VORA SHO Gft-—ila¥ oO) wee molt boisoqer sew WAG 
; nator soci to Sig srlt sd 7 t ya 2 did ae - 
ee 5 ee ae S: 


bok “enor aan nodW orn ditnet A at noongse Tie oi digit “es sk doen 
nr to ied ognd g—1097 > ror) Uigtheids gice deta nobiem anthal ne a rine a a7 
‘gl vil linens) ‘wihe i, hits? ort vol 7! Tieah | bots, scedwrals viveole ders fer 


Lorn «iw of athéetrys bor enalios raat beleive ~— J Hind see 
aeort yeti rey inad ¢ P ml ot bee Jasbitie neibrd vilwad aids gd dilesi vee sed © 
mom 

aS nwtiy & A) IDOE of aang oes o- bel sol dsae notl, feb » otras mods ioth 
) nidiweve «id bos ite letiagy ac att omnia ee volt eohow wie a een + 
zqrmin aigil ods avi: oF vols sade nol ied os tea a “ed a Get duet” be “7 
Lobes On ov Ato Te" Bethe aff uo > cinidiaaRe sit ulyin (teeta toe . 
| JAul “¢ sel thay gndwond.a i nud sar be yp wos 


err 








Gastern Shore 


The Shore abounds with these old legends. A large Colonial home in Somerset 
county is said to be haunted by the ghost of its former owner, who hanged himself 
because he had killed one of his slaves by harsh and brutal treatment. Tenants are hard 
to find for this old home, because of the cries that apparently come from the chimney— 
with a sound resembling “goodbye, goodbye.” 


Continued 





Trappe has its legend of buried treasure, guarded by the spirit of the departed. 
A Mr. Castleton, leaving for some unknown reason, buried his gold. To his old servant 
he said, “Jim, you know that I have buried my treasure here; I am leaving, but my 
spirit will brood above it. If any one tries to steal it, my spirit will appear. All! attempts 
to locate the buried treasure have been fruitless. Lights are seen, apparitions appear, and 
the treasure seekers are frightened away. 





Again we have a story of buried gold. A true story this time—entirely removed 
from legendary happenings. 


A farmer in Somerset county was told by his father, who was on his death bed, that 
a certain plantation, of which he was over-seer during the Civil War, was the hiding 
place of thirty thousand dollars in gold. It seems that the owner of the plantation had 
told his over-seer of this buried money, but failed to mention the exact spot. However, 
the plantation owner had said that it was buried on a certain tract. ? 


The farmer set about to find a machine of some kind that would be of assistance in 
locating metals under ground. He enlisted the aid of a young man, who told the story 
to a friend of his in Salisbury. The man from Salisbury knew some one who had just 
such a machine; a deal was made, and a day appointed. Two days before the day set for 
the adventure, the owner of the machine was accidentally killed. 


Later, the Salisburian was telling the story to the brother of the man who: had been 
killed. “Why,” said the brother, “I can work that machine.” Another deal was made, 
another day appointed to search for buried treasure—which, by the way, happened to be 
Sunday. On Friday evening the house in which the machine was stored burned to the 
ground. The gold-detecting machine was a mass of twisted metal, and thirty thousand 
dollars—think of it! still rests beneath the daisies in Somerset county. 


It is there today—go and get it if you want it. The tale is straight. The planta- 
tion owner confided in his over-seer, and dying soon after, never made any attempt to 
retrieve the gold. His over-seer regarded it as a trust and therefore would not make a 
search for it. 

Courtesy of the Hebron High School, 


—MISS ROSALIND MESSICK. 


Page Thirty Two 


























hawniino— HOW 


Daweac o: ane lindo) sgt A 2h Glo smdy aie 


uid ) Othe crow yA) an t6 pony il? of bornannel 
bind oan etyenaT  eaentegt Tamil bet yfegadl 20 eee oa ei 


diva 
i # 


verity oft muri otnoy vitnenngan tlt Sale ‘ody ta wield , ib % 
oylbien redloag! psc anon ' 
— re at 





J 
borne sl : qe ofl gd bobriey .owebort Ward 16 bevagal a ext 

beri bl jal -bley eid LeawhjaGenn coromltu Stee cer pat ea) 
‘ti mo “ors itn | mori Vico Wh Leosrrud svorl | WH ny wns ow f 
tne, YOorpye Civ) Mee Te aE ie ot yn) ont vac I Bhi srs 


bak 7 hosnqges se sae! pe Wir nxt ove! von’ band 
Pree 4 Lonstrinivd nie erbeee 





his vers piINId—ail ui wor wou / How bonud lo vue oc We oe 

qinnogar | 

tuth il by mvt 1 7 ole rain! A} ref bijou ace Yaltien remind wi 
this ay | 1 os yooh “wore vo on dohiw lo el 


bist tor : rij _ io 3 i lar eMok i} les thi niutlol lupeol poe ee 


nus) mo on) gevnernol ballad sud aoe bunnd if) to weoetove eit Bh 


») » oO betdd ary fed! line bed yerwecll : 
i ooepraly wr ted! dnajd sek fo setiggn mle syed one naratest! 
x cers nba ia} ‘im St baits 39 luvory ashing, eto 


: + 9 4 ysuclete? ment oe aif " Gece oy Pry to 
. Wi Hol avcbowl detoqhe yeh bag Shen env des s 
ia vifetcr book ae servers sls le tonvig B¥s 3 


wane. ub nln! tht orgpane eds anit cove cnbnairile? git 
‘ ' # * ”- 4) 
in <eve j hyente/ ; sor dent) Ae ano ft row alt bine “yay ye 


«os lyatteytynel yyow oil) yd oe ivr —aaweuats Lorvud vik thee ot Lowi vad f 
of lewind Laos enw sien oft danke ni oeuod och gninas ¥ : f 


bane? yooh bre - lore lope val to een» eer ontieisnen siti yaobe wae 
‘ * 4 o- . WI 
Wituies jsztomod ni eaiaich ald riteoersl aac ine lag 


cinniqg off sdgeewe cf okt OFT aragigg aoe ti ty bine 2 eta ty 
Of IMaie UG YURI 3945 L. Jorn coo nang bre . woe T3700 ail it : : 

4 ¥ Se “ 

whist sort Blow’ atid bee wanted baby tee) BE Bag. St 


uloé HE Ainidoll ols to vested 
AMAA OATIACOA 2enta— 


Gastern Shere-—Continued 


THE TIE THAT BINDS 


Eastern Shoremen: are clannish. 


Any son of the sou will admit it, which is to his 


credit. “Lives there a man with soul so dead who ne’er to himself hath said—this is my 
own, my native land.” The whole Shore might be likened to a mutual admiration 
society, but it is better so. “Kind words are more than coronets and simple faith than 
Norman blood.” Clannishness is more cf a virtue than a vice. 

The real members of the clan are the adopted sons and daughters of the Shore. 
They are the ones who sing her praises, and shout ner virtues from the housetops. 

Speak of kindness—courtesy, good cheer, hospitality, homogeneity, boost and brag, 
and you have the correct definition of the term “Eastern Shoreman.” If brag offends 
any sensitive ear, we hasten to say that this is the simon pure article. 

We have bragged of the Shore for the past twenty-five years, and aided and abetted 
by her loyal sons and daughters, native born and adopted, we expect to keep it up for 
twenty-five more. Every dog must wag his owa tail. Theretore, go on good people, and 
brag to your heart’s content; everybody else does. 

Brag on your town, your neighbors, your dog, your wife and your little ones. 
Bragging is only a day-dream, and after all, the wonder and glory of life hover around 
and about our own doorstep. Dream on, oh fellow purveyor of brag and boost, and 
then go out and make your dreams come true! 





THE OLD HOME TOWN 


(Yours and Mine) 


It is just a homey Country town 
That has grown to man’s estate, 

But we are calling it a city now, 
Tho ten o’clock is late. 


Our streets are like primeval paths 
That ever wind and wind; 

But here we know our neighbors 
And every heart is kind. 


Comes the stranger to our town 
To call it, ‘““Home, sweet home.’’ 

Some subtle spell has caught him |. 
That allays the itch to roam, 


Beneath the shade of noble trees 
Little children laugh and play, 
And song is mixed with happiness 

Each joyous, gladsome day. 


We haven’t put on city airs 
Nor left our smiles at home, 
And of all the favorite spots 
"Neath the blue enameled dome, 


There is no fairer, lovelier place 
Than the town we call our own, 
This peppy, prosperous, rare old burg, 
We Know as ‘‘Home, sweet home;” 


To Uncle Sam and all his folks— 
Including ‘‘poor relations,”’ 

Our word is this—there’s room for you— 
Don’t wait for invitations. 

It is just a homey Country town—— 
The fairest of all lands— 


Where friends are true—and fellowship 
Is more than touch of hands. 


MG Oat be 


Page Thirty Three 


pontine Nee 


VTA PANT Wir aT 


#til. oy 2 fl qipfay. Mt firth. 
yity 2 arth) —dotwe etl eect) 0 aR one ly 


noid a CMR ; ey > pOise 


yet™ me te 


ier Tues Tq mie Wer, - acer. 
Lables Ge bene thsew 
dorenan lewinn uw yal od THgier Jane aeoet-y sof 


nw: diol stern bee 2ontres, well oi. gin elnow ae irs 
i! & Cea any @ To sien 2? at 


vm och oft Yo evadetem 


u 
1) tot) ecu ert tae abe AD bith eeaeth wy tatl % Lage 
! indent! pete 293) Loon Bi”, 












ee 75 


a Gor 
lex: + ae 


anrstes cal 43 iunsote movie” wi ot qo wolldeh naned oS oe 
TE 21 AOU on mn cis? thelt (ee oO tvateurl <t 3 
grad 3 
lnoted> Nine HAbre bie ,ewoy a7 wea rei, arly. TeY srod@ ofls Yo b all 
Ol Ue ogd a) tae RO 3 Lorgohin ink itech ava rdguah bas i 


bate ool booe fo of cw fT iat avi eee ae hom gel gov oom 
E _" as ye 

ea (¥i +! sav bore slow wep asblh way undies may vo? 16o% un 3 ci 
it ying a sil 

ty: ; mth iq yiolg Lat of eee, et Th 1936 tori, a avulr yal & 

ao cuor > inahoney veo We er. 

rer stro unin woy ote bam Joerg 


o -setne gf tf iO Ww rea /OITSL TG 


SuoT SOM (10 THT 


cit Duan eed) 


rin Wo toe Seta sae 

‘ ; iO Trol Jo3o%. 

ttoge, offfeval vl) Haile het. 
hreioniaus Old wee AT 


iadé ol te 5) wih et oteT 
fliv ew ove ati ant 
idl + WL, BU’ pee cae eat 


ijiud “ewe wield’ Hy were at? 


wife? eid ian bore Mees.otontl of 
“se; olisiot Too" salbeel 

vie tO) ule aed aint af brow 40 
apottwival 101 time Peott 


wos “tee “ofan « sent el vl 
ahita! Ua Yo Jaotler adf 

cilewolte) bey —soqote alah FW 
“lo dae.) eet) wont al 


godt yiiAT sped 


























vas 


thenkyuses sisters ry 


ry 


"wor crue’) wnod # 
one» tie o) avery 
wan Gh eH alle 
cre 
ont gt ws 


“uiiveqg lavaming eAlf ou a 
‘hulw ove belw 

erornulem we Lswic 
bet al naw wae 


aval wo oO) 198ne1 
“201 Mews ~mohh” at f 
min nignes ert TF 


iaaot 0? stati 9h eget. Ie 


ses olden Yo 

Awe bow denn! oe J 

easuiqqad ditw bart i 
veh ome 


ees 


ogy 


Eastern Shore—Continued 


MANITOU CALLS Before us will come trophies of the chase; 
A The turkey rustling in the shade, 
By Wm. N. WILLIS Wild geese on high seeking a nesting 


\ \ lace; 

Proud Nanticokes, Manitou calls us now; These cor our vision will never fade. 
Bids us here no longer tarry; 
To the white man’s dominion we must 

bow; 
Leave this great arid ours meant to be. 
Manitou knows best, so it must be well 
That he bids us come to his side, 
In yonder happy hunting grounds to dwell, 
Where good cheer and plenty abide. 


Proud happy warrior, happy hunters we’ll 
be 

In lands beyond the starry sky; 

Gracious Manitou has willed it freely; 

On his promise we can rely. 

Yet still feelings of sadness fill our hearts 

We will never forget this Eastern Shore, As from this Shore we’re called to go; 


With us even in the spirit land, Something fond and dear from our souls 
Memories will come of the days gone be- departs, 
fore; Which we trust over there to know. 





THE EASTERN SHORE INDIANS 


Our best account of the early Eastern Shore Indians is found in Capt. John Smith’s 
“General Historie.” 

Capt. John Smith in 1608, with some twenty fellow adventurers from the James- 
town Colony, set out to explore the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries. He gives a 
vivid account of the Indians they met on the Eastern Shore. On a well drawn map he 
locates the principal camp sites and gives names to many rivers and regions. He notes 
particularly the Wicomicoes, the Pocomokes, the Nantaquaks, the Ozinies, and the fierce 
Susquehannocks and Lenni-Lenape (Delawares) swooping down from the north upon 
their mortal enemies, the Nanticokes. 

The last remnant of the Nanticokes herded themselves together for their last stand 
on the banks of the Indian River in Sussex County, Delaware, where a small band 
largely of mixed blood may still be found. Heckewelder states that the main body of 
remaining Nanticokes migrated north to join friendly tribes in 1748. 


Their spirits still haunt our torests and streams, 
Their cries re-echo in legendary lore, 


They. come and they go like phantoms in our dreams, 
To roam thru the forests of the Kastern Shore. 


WILLIAM N. WILLIS. 





There is a tradition to the effect that Indian Town—near Snow Hill was the last 
camping-ground of the Indian tribes on the Eastern Shore. 

It was the custom of certain tribes not to bury their dead, but to place them on ele- 
vated stretchers suspended from tall tree stumps. These stretchers were high enough 
from the ground to prevent the mutilation of the body by prowling animals. Presuma- 
bly, the dead were also protected from carnivorous birds by guards stationed near the 
scene for that purpose. 

Former generations of Indians buried in mounds. The Pocomokes and Nanticokes 
were subjects of the six nations. The Accomacks paid tribute to Powhatan. 


NOTE: The above is merely tradition, and no claim is made for its historical 


correctness, <3 Seed 
The signed article by W. N, Willis, is, we believe correct in every detail: Mr. 
Willis is an authority on Indian Lore in this section.—-HDITOR. 


Page Thirty Four 







































: 
a 
i 
9 | 
Yi 1 a ~> -) 7 
sve tyt x05 6 fvisier o ; 
| R ol py 0 , 
seeedo sit le ealityow santos JEW sere =, ‘ . - 
. bande ods a) suite vane? 4a oa 
Wniean os ynidaie dan go se80y HT RELY v Po 7 E 
. ‘ahaa ‘ he 
: : e yal tevead liiw meiaiy 10 aigti asetT wo ku alino watt aie sai bu 


a lem ow notnlm@eGy ee oak : * 


o 6.60 'n) ‘tne ie | yuma i 9 
iihew reassini ripwal wriisvwy Vag il hung ¥ r . 
a . -« , ' iinw of Jeom oe 4 


| bie sit Of 2a) ae bid 6: ia 
; a, ‘en ,3 dlewb oF ebawerg saitenll Lae y0 Oye 
- cane higan: athe ohida Geely bite hatin anna a 








. ineth «A ode cy rie nisi? roto} waite we, 
; aT ; : ; piifotoe tt J lye ort? cf oove 
| ey 1 mipeed | son Sosy ef) to 60s Tw 
v7 dso 
os —e 
. ‘AINE QROMe VAATeAS SHAT 
oil 2 rsd vine ods To “wie tend 2H oO 
" since te as 
drive BOL ui rien ne ro) 
y : ij at 2 ) siatgzs 2s in toe ¥ ‘ 
| bs y od wh ag n vorty aneibed off te sine 4 


/ eign 2a barre 2902 Afri int] BL | cult 2 
, ys : | } surn iW ocls * ehaloal 


ue ah te (toting! tcnal-ipnat ‘bane paul 
. P | oe 
: yy jiu) al? Nitie ir) lennon 09 
( senouaEe! ; tonnes deal sd 
tt ) kqerned i : ' to edoed = 
he Hie tal a nue ot tite yen beold- bewinn Ye 


by) ’ : 1X Tt Paes nua gnunieet 


aT "iO ‘uo typad tite srrmliae tiedT = 
’ F sigl rm? ae oe hs iy tieiT 'Y 


MRL A MATL 


reel. acy 2ow (bl. * wan—ovel eneks Ay tests 6! Oo) te wotbaw 6 ab 379 i 
“ noe mrss ie tw 2edew anihal oul lo bnworg-e ak 
slo ao ered) soahq ot ind .besb tisdtaéd.o: ron ent ninsios to more> ali eave dl Ps 
fguone dail aw moro sell aqme sou llet mont bebrsqee eonstete bot 
a » eiefitpess | torn cstaope vd vial anf io wuosel urn ol) 1M Ig oF ees K 
xen Leno nig vd shard -ueevniem mont bese ols ow heab ‘ 
: woqug sud2 Fo 
idoutne4 bre stowotal ofl ahetvom Hi beaut enecibal to 2HOULTIAIG wane 
~ nota oF otudiyt hing zune atl .anenen xe alt Jo ennidue om 


lavitoi=ld 231 20) =bam ef ahimis Gn Laon nb? cher a! evoda oi? ere ‘ 


wv 4) SE OK OW oad elatrea boas 6 ont 


HOPMIA—. ubrese “an fil Wal auido So UHORINs aK nt at 


: 7 —_ 


af 


¢ ' 
rieis 449 ‘phe LL j mete wyalou 


~ 





1VO3G3L6 


Easte rn Shore—Continued 


“CIVIL WAR DAYS ON THE EASTERN SHORE” 
By MARJORIE C. WRIGHT 


During the Civil War (1861-1865) sentiment on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, a 
tract of land situated in a country in which abolition in one section and the continuance 
of slavery in the other had the unfortunate effect of sharply accentuating the difference 
more or less inherent in the two sections, was, like the factions it separated, acutely 
divided. There are, even today, remnants of the divided sentiment on the shore. In the 
home of Dr. E. W. Humphreys’ widow, Salisbury, is a large picture of General Lee, 
which Mrs. Humphreys’ mother, a Confederate, sewed in a featherbed in order to hide 
it from the Yankee soldiers when they ransacked her home. In several other homes, on 
the other hand, can be found discharges which grandfathers and great-grandfathers 
received from the Union Army. 

It was this assemblage and fusion of differences on the “Shore” which made it 
truly representative of the social and economic life of the country in the 1860's. 

Inasmuch as the Eastern Shore is now designated as the “Land of Milk and Honey,” 
it was, during the Civil War period, just as appropriately termed the “Land of Corn and 
Whiskey,” for at that time corn was the main basis of most food, while whiskey was the 
beverage consumed for medicinal purposes and for purely personal gratification. Apple- 
jack and peach brandies and hard cider were also found in abundance along with the 
corn and rye whiskey. 

Chief among their foodstuffs were corn pone, corn cakes, corn fritters, berries, fish, 
pork, and fowl, both tame and wild. When visitors came, fried ham and eggs were con- 
sidered a good repast, while cheese, which was brought to the plantation from Baltimore 
about twice a year, was a luxury which shocked the neighbors. 

There were few delicacies, and flour bread was never served more than twice a week. 
Single families were forcd to buy flour and mackerel by the barrel because they were 
rarely obtainable in smaller quantities. Food was cooked almost wholly béfore the fire- 
place in ovens, in iron pots suspended on cranes over the fire, and in the “spider and lid.” 

Most people lived near a river or a pond and raised ducks and geese as well as 
pigeons, chickens, and a few turkeys. Water was obtained chiefly from open wells 
or springs. : ; 

Coffee was bought green and roasted before the fire; prior to the invention of the 
coffee mill it was brayed ‘in a vessel known as a mortar with an implement called a 
pestle. Corn and wheat were occasionally pounded in a like manner, but more often they 
were ground at a water mill. “Lunch” did not exist until after the “Yankees” added it 
to our vocabulary; meals were simply called “breaktast,” “dinner,” and “supper.” Like- 
wise, there was no “afternoon”; it was “morning,” “evening,” and “night.” 

One, moreover, finds the dress of those days quite interesting and quite different 
from that of today. The direly uncomfortable but truly fascinating clothes of the fairer 
sex were indeed conspicuous. The tightly laced corset over the proper seventeen inch 
waist was rightly called a “board,” for it was an intricately woven garment of heavy 
steels. Over the corset was worn a mass of stiffly starched peticoats which extended the 
twelve-yard hoop-skirt to such a degree that ladies rarely saw their petite feet which were 
protected by yarn stockings and high-laced shoes. Over the thick and long suit of hair 
was worn, on Sundays, a kind of bonnet called a “shaker,” made of straw with a cur- 
tain, and on week-davs was worn a “slat” or “sunbonnet” made of calico or gingham. 

In summer the men wore illy-fitting suits of flax web and in winter of hemp web, 
which, previous to its wearing, was dipped in the pond to be brightened. A little later 


Page Thirty Five 


tii 


“"ROH? VARA MET WO ere 
THO SY ARIOULLA @ 9 


a Jjinindvanté in ywon? nvoend od: ao tetiinne (ANY: tae) —s iD adr 
syhouotinos off Lok noliow ano af noiilede Mike Gi winelp hai tie” 
noehib gt pring elton to bolls wynwetbinn . dives’ ; 
¢i3rlG Whe. 4 2008. tly oll ee ,2neiss oO) wt ao 
ai) nl sie ort. co cheAeno bibvib oA efteuretn vebos aes 
2.) Iara Ye win! cbteloo ap yyainletee abe Betines, 
Lal ot yahoo om Ledreiteal c a bawe ,rerobeldtoD «sede 
“ie eoriod rdie lieve. Ol seed auth lealosenes goes aocdiy 


2rahis i bntry 1c71g he erulmtheney vieher enyinttoeib 
prod, noid ody 


it shen dotdve “sole” =f) 90 pewilil lo now bee yells eth ener sl 
2 OAR sets ni engl Atte ail wmndness boc tebe ody to setae 
worol bas dhl’ to leer 2” «hd on balmy Teste Ot e old anton ont 
lie @0D to bent” arf) borarer yeep a Rut Dons wiW lvoe ge 
if ac vadeidue slnttw bacl ota dir aed (iad ot aor ae one Teele 
sherk  nosttariiiay len rip oetoring 107 bn eeeqiee Innicibees to) Teenie 
ult ilaive goals aornbawl, 1 bavel Gla ww who tied bee Gib 
wade 

Lit vain! asaht mo 2sdes moo Shoq dey ow eMovbeel siok. are 
d At sri shies ly blew ban sam oe ood ‘ 
{sl wien) doitome!y orld oi tehotiord save oun poms Hedy seeps 
wveldgiat ott lagloads doit ywenl « ew 297 OS 
doo s soni mult cent bow ooh eter yen quolt bee poesia se oe 








































wi? sullttod Jit afi (3 ison line ayok gud a! how? new . 
nil oh nerd vlaty Beetle bojgos ew lat sonieenp salle Ai sian 
* bbl bopes drpe dia: bee snl db aowe Aah te bealrroqeere 27204 now nu 


sey Jan dou bata bee bag © 10 v9 9 ream bavil 
ie cnt fier bedielo ov an vate wal « bre eet 


evel open dei i olondied boven bee oxng Iyved emer 

& lates Jriasigerh ce bry ighent & 4 Wand lower © of Loved saad 
£37)1 Avfio nom jue 30eRM san b ne bohtiver (lenoisca0 sa sand bas so 
ii bsbbe “eodee (” off vole Juey Ree On DI “dsoul” lim yew 6 he 
iT gq” Tne “asorub” "serbian! bollas hyn peew altaen + 
“ardgin” bre “golness” “Wanteneri” enw 9) s" noone” on enw 

mnshib aiip tits anitesraay stup aaah seailt to ns ot) cba axvenom ¢ 
VriKl ads ie 231 org ru (quitaee) yloo 114 *Manoline sit viowbl oft Stead 
doin casi GRE ad vy0-Tanies betel via AT eee 
yea too Tianine 2 Magy dsikinint ie aw % tor “Artest” i" 
da belwisse Bale ARE IT ith hodawi yiifie lo wen & mow enw an hy 
aww thiiw sy oneq ron Yer vow aaibel saily angel 5 due 0? Nikequedt ten 
til Io aw: anol bas dork) ot we eens Dooel-iyed ae agnor aiey xd baby 
9 © iiw via de shear asdade” 4 belies raved to band a aepehene | 


dnulen.p 1¢ Oils te olen “fenodane” 90 “ele” 2 aw een avebols 


dow qant Je asta en dow xolt Wp ithe yaritret-yili swe ee i so 
vsinl sil A .Laderdged od or baeq off at bogyih auw peng ity a 





svit yitidT aye9 ey, 


Easte rn Shore—Continued 


their trousers were “Kentucky jeans” which “wore like iron.’ Paper and celluloid 
collars were also included in every gentleman’s wardrobe. The cloth for most of these 
garments was corded and spun into webs at home; that worn by the negroes was coarse 
as tow-sacks, while that worn by the whites was a small degree finer known as fustian. 

Cooperative marketing was unknown in Civil War days on the Eastern Shore, for 
there was little exporting or importing. Of the few imports, eggs were shipped in barrels 
or hogsheads and packed in oats or straw, which was also sold by the merchant. 

Transportation, even to Baltimore, was entirely by water; the record-holding speed 
of the steamboat was a round trip from the lower Eastern Shore to Baltimore in a week. 
The northern part of the “Shore” enjoyed the railroad before the southern, for in 1860 
there was only one short track in the latter section. It was the Delaware line from 
Delmar to Salisbury. In 1860 its construction was interrupted by the Civil War, and it 
was not extended to Cape Charles until after the close of the war. With the excep- 
tion of the telegraph line through Salisbury, which carried many messages from the 
Yankees to the Confederates, there was little communication on the “Shore.” Mail was 
brought on horseback or by steamer about twice a week, while a weekly paper was 
received every Saturday night or Sunday morning. Yelling from the woodpile was the 
common method of communicating with the neighbors. 

Few towns boasted of lighted streets, and in those few, light was furnished by 
means of lamps burning sperm oil or candles and hanging from high poles. 

The crude farming implements, then considered efhcient, consisted of the “Minor 
Harding Plow,” a cultivator with wooden brakes and a fluke, the common hoe, rake, 
and fork. Oxen were used in the fields to a great extent. 

Industry, as we know it, did not exist, the principal occupations being farming, 
wood-cutting, hunting, fishing, and trading on a small scale. This absence of large 
business does not infer that the people were dull or lacking in initiative, for they were 
truly a thrifty and industrious group who strived to make their homes comfortable. 

The houses were built according to no architectural plan, but extra rooms were added 
where and when it seemed necessary, a fireplace being added with each room. The 
handmade furniture was made of pine hewn at home. In the homes of the wealthy 
there was fine English furniture, but such dwellings were uncommon. On the beds 
were wheat or straw mattresses, featherbeds, homespun yarn blankets, and patch-work 
quilts. . 

Each farm had its milk house, which was embedded two or three feet deep in the 
soil in such a way as to allow the water from the spring or pond to cool the butter, 
milk, or cream. Here, too, was found the ice house, which was also underground and 
insulated with sawdust, and ice cut from the frozen stream in winter was packed here 
for future use. 

Education was still in the primitive stage. A school-teacher was simply required to 
be able to teach reading, writing, and a little ciphering. Both teacher and pupils had 
much to combat, for the poorly constructed one room was, as a rule, foo well ventilated 
with large cracks and holes. Co-education did not appear until after 1867. There were 
a number of private schools and at least one military academy in the northern part of 
the “Shore.” 

Medicine also was in a rudimentary state. If a man became ill, his arm was bound 
and a quart of blood extracted. This was not practiced on women, for it was believed 
that their offspring needed the blood. Midwifery was a common practice, and women 
“died like flies” of child-bed fever. Medicines such as molasses and sulphur, rhubarb and 
other herbs were found in every home. Warts were “talked off” by local magic workers. 


Page Thirty Six 


ne eee se 


Hosta St: 


ut vir 2 “en ofl oe” Mauly “ena ohana aw “um 
) etn 1 Mot of T sdeebew es trimers tva/> 0 bebuloni osle ve ORE 
a ane cream ip yl hyew SE eeaed sadtow oni nage bok babray ite 109 
rey Sey Wd, ( Puls aaiucbl’ ate pew ranibee ‘9c3) el muy nals abitiwe oe 
‘ A ! : oP 


LU OE Ty ade Ondo, 2aw gaits nen suitors oe 
, detes uh beiguh stair agey “neue wat aaa) Sumoqi t ynitoges shyih 




































ie of) #7 Gite ole ebay “loatiw ower aw 1 MH Lot ong bent wip 
Hor oa) a otew vl Shey sy ene of aes Bote ft 
1, ; Mal ) omni? qaoterd 4 yee sax pide) i”! bate 2 Pe teodrni nate 


: Siig (scr botin wl herve mode" of? lo req modnen ot 

is rwvapiel | aly “oot aelel a) ni socw node snd rw Ss 
D> sabe ve UTI WY adluuaAes an OART a ytudale2 of per! 

MLA di A lo “bois. seh vag » batts sol yiat’) qt of bobnaite seer 


) 


evi Fill phi Goth Pudalee Aguestely sail Aeyergatay only in| 
fs morke”’ ofr ho nehiseneis abyil ane: wo) .venbsinn? si oF adn 
¥ . é ye Mw yerey © , Wu de IWRL a2 vd 37 Asudszwd no iT 7 9 
4 wit alae SyaNet gabe wo tvigin vobwuKee wore be 
. ; rdisisn ofl dyes nnhc ttarngrserte » to bedper oe 
lotiwann ty wind ost seouht oF Bre wtate leprdail Jo. bassecd aie 
' ‘ 


LAT Vie 20> (Ose niuniid equrtal do. 
nae OS SNE Mae lyinia a inpud shins adi 9 


ult tu © bo nm tahoe Aw supzil os “wel 
is3) POX 4 Gt 2b lara i key giow noxt) . 
j it th. ep tory beth its vrunad 30 tlh ue 
hey bee “atten yoniseesl “pati 
ali 


‘ nt 


hil 4 Bole watt jor ylot ton soab 


; al 
Ve ie qotg son bo bhe Gis 


ats | Od Jud sels HEN OO) Ba ba: oe thd now egewod oT 
; tirw) sup bagel 9 Tueroonn levies 3 aaah baw: adh 
/ ; wu ii wugu (Work oni | to oer enw au tvith) bar “ 
fy sO NFA — eirtlisvts Hy rye Mrrirte detlyny tye ww 7 

: fy! infested plyedysebsi *MéMauiliemn Wek %% Inovive 

m) Jos) out 4 rifns, one Aagiby ued ae oti bed ans dowd a 

ao @) Here vo on wp 797 — tiw oh walle ar  yiw & daua ni 


Vistas ovin caw Mbedlys eas 


: wt bagel sew oot ssh ANGI 0 5 
srl ty da, AO! WOT iM thier ment Slt ttl tuo wa Sim witbve dip t 


Deep ists 
yuupa Ylyme eer yortsumtdouhe / 


*hu oviheruay ofl) nt lite vow ani : 
ehijuq bor wees deli canheddi alait «lane Sunny .gailme Hast of ol rade 
huiahsesy Now of ‘WM 8 2h 26 wim vam he weno qh Gory sri? tal dedines o1 4 3 
er nil eye | IVL “Gen CoO faa. la ae nies) 2aod bet doen yrel ce 


ets 
hat 


Gh 2 PRO! te bop elooptye ewig a ot oe 


bawed cow roe eid ol siived net a Hope weierrdtee eal env wale onisiboM 
borsiicd sew 1 1? sinew HO bey tie wa EN alt Licpuedy beokl je 3 


nine hie aire a aes nape, & Aer. eualinals av hewibel sds lptficemry mene 
Lees tito ieee (i, 2’ un An roa ay 2 ain iZ <vern behdstiks tr * “poll : 
ctodurw sige teal vd “Ro bell” saaw anc i eo, qos We eat nw: whad 


lo nay miviinon oes ni tole b 


Eastern Shore—Continued 


One hears much concerning the superstitions which were so prevalent during these 
days. Perhaps the most prominent belief was that women should not visit on New Year’s 
Day. If one made his exit by a door different from that by which he entered; if he 
dropped a knife; if he sailed on Sunday; if he began a new task on Friday; or if he met 
a negro shortly after leaving home, he was destined to have ill luck. 

In 1861 there were still many remnants of colonial society on the Eastern Shore. The 
horse and buggy, the carriage used in those halcyon days of yore—both were character- 
istic of the Civil War years, which though years of war, were not exactly unhappy years 
on the Eastern Shore, as there was no immediate danger in the neighborhood. 

By vessel, wagon, and oxcart people flocked to the fairs which were a combination of 
everything, social and commercial in the district. There the young Shoreman saw his 
first foreigner, usually the Italian, for there wes no foreign element on the “Shore.” 

In 1860 formal cotillions were the rage throughout the countryside; parallel to the 
cotillion was the barn-dance, where the piano and fiddle played the newest music— 
“Shortnin’ Bread,” “Turkey in the Straw,” “Goin’ Down to Pelly’s,” and “Branberry 
Cross.” 

The little town was the popular rendezvous of the country folk on a Saturday night, 
and a fight or two, to liven up the evening, was not uncommon. In fact, the little son 
usually asked his father returning from town: “Pa, who “fit?” 

Then there were camp meetings and revivals with much shouting and many testi- 
monials. Corn-huskings, taffy-pullings, and quilting parties where “Garden of Eden,” 
“Star of Bethlehem,” “Tree of Paradise,’ and “Plantation Belle” quilts were carefully 
made—all these gatherings helped unite the country folk and spread the gossip of the 
neighborhood and the latest news of the war. 

On many of the ox-cart rides the people encountered the gypsies who camped 
throughout the “Shore” and told fortunes. 

Such was the life of the common Eastern Shoreman in the 1860's, a life which, 
though seemingly dull to us, was stimulative and productive, establishing on the “Shore” 
a precedent of superstition, amusement, pacific progress, and prosperity. 


Reference: “The American Guide’’—Federal Writers’ Project. 

Personal Interview with: W. C. Thurston, L. Irving Pollitt. 

Civil War Contemporaries:—James Wright, Mrs. Josephine Humphreys, and 
Mrs. Alfonso Dix. 





NOTE: This essay won for Miss Wright the “Old Home Prize’ of the Hebron 
High School. 





: - POETS 


Dreams are theirs and hunger—cold; 
Aspirations, love untold. 
Music throbbing softly sweet 
In each heart’s tempestuous beat. 
Calm and storm, the keenest pain; 
Sunshine, clouds, and April rain. 
Peace is theirs, and sorrow, too; 

: Morning light and hope anew. 
Toil is theirs, and recompense— 
In dreams fulfilled— 
d oy intense 
ae. Ww...c. THURSTON 


Page Thirty Seven 











Py F rome mane of wr4T wtermeth alt oi isianinenos bank iow 


Séue tbintsée ie Alot sou]: sdf Ie zoovsshingd 1 HO wii ew awol aluil adT 
no afyae] sla ] } | WS te ae ap teloev > oy as vo nl o) nm » rhe at . 


hi erettemoh stil t tre tein auimol—- -=sitkiogm@arnad in. 
2a 






































senrty usiioh Mote’ fit?) oz sy daihy enitivetayue wis yMinysanes 
c100f wa aeoie jon hivors comely tnt tte tote! Insoimmg Rem 
sf 47 -fiayiag of dant va tH i rett tena aol « ed tizg hee 
wa aH tae sabi no dem cron & teed get svnbaue no. bali 
e att i ovedl at yariiagsly ex w oil ed ee 
' neie rayter | art) ao (772 luituadeny | De 2tanation va: : = ses 
yeoouts saw ditd<—soy. dn. aves neve seek ny Leow SUMTER ies nn 0 
nov vaqeden Vises jan 27 Coe I6 hay Ayes | lassh we etesY wy ml tos 
bowhoqdtzem ot a rayne Sinikeromi po «cw sods ac ode a + 
lait om @ stb sidlyr eR) ston baghok ole: oo] hIeO Lariee , Cuangsew, 


wf am Jools ‘rasp on 20 ot rot ventiot] orb yllnaee on F 


yf Mo iSihea ery ly, VTIMIG ann neat sents yy sat Stua 2norllitos leeorwl 6 
—icun seven Sleek Stub be asteny 2b. sodw jwocherved Se ane aw v0 : 
; i“ ( _ pa 
j noi” fh ‘vilor a fi ener Ce ‘ork oft ao: yohwT ‘bent ihstanidh s 
*, . OF Je ey 


: a. 
fA ofw wt” -swo mor unkninin yedtnd aul bodes. xl 


$ vnern bad urapeede thar eli oh (eo ite eur y¥orn psy Wav oraz 
eb 4a wilvrel) 4 surat esis pists -biers ‘mr tihereg-y The esi deur moa. af 
hy > ash atin Ho poli oe hore oa aE, ‘l t oovT” “ eesdolitedl to 2 
3 lo 9 Gest 1) SI wuitiow ony shew hh Seiad agurrding woh I 


iw wh lo«von sopel od) bare bee 


won ci? m1. nvivary steps oi!) it Jtae> eu arly jo vitaen 
ime bier toe “modé” adap 


Hoty ctl a « O08b offs a: meappode eed) deraime> st to oT ods, ene 
» eonly ~ ober bow sean ary an or Tb viene 


seul lus vos jade: EY AN OL ty EET. Apa le Fy ” 


ered “eye Tash ehioh MeomermtA eft ’ 
109 seivd uD eed OW one wolvional 4 


ip ii aaa 


Hi od) Jo “ssh omoH DIO” of? J4QI8VF eeil4 50? Row Taran maby 


® 
AHO a “4 
‘hloo—Tyediet Niet eid wen ened of 
seat we 8 ; Moity oval enolate A — Gnas ae 


Jrwavex Hiae wud: lei a | 
tod -ananjedqus) ated ong’ 
Hd Daoige tl SD eto ele nit 

tet tings hia aiurels erie 
“O0) WoT tie hie aiteds 23 ; 
wide aon bile pss a 


dail cid “ela i 


MOTAHIAT 9 lw 





Gastern Shore 


BROTRBERHOOD 


Continued 


I recognize no caste or craen 

No distinction of races or clan: 

If they be sons of oer Father-God 

I meet them a!] as taan to man. 

That which is true brotherhocd 

Would take no theugnt of hate or spleen; 
The very humblest may walk today-— 
With contrite heart and clean. 

What are power ard place—--and noble birth, 
When God anove—the Christian’s code, 
Shall judge man by tis worth? 

One dressed in rags might nearer be 

To Him who reigns above, 

Than those who scorn the rank and file— 
And glibly prate that Gee is love. 





W.Cy THURSTON: 





a ra 


For this beautiful tribute to the Jewish peopie, we are indebted to Elsie Robinson’s 
“Listen World,” column—King Features Syndicate—Baltimore News Post. 

It is reproduced here as a fitting testimonial to that little band of patriotic Jewish 
citizens, who are good Eastern Shoremen, good aeighbors—good friends and 100% 
Americans. 

If America is the “Promised Land,” and the Shore a miniature Garden of Eden, it is 
natural that the Jew should find here a Haven of Peace and a “House of Refuge.” 

Tho it.is borrowed copy—the editor makes bold to incorporate it in these pages as a 
slight token of his affection and esteem for an ever widening circle of tried and true— 
Jewish friends. 


EDITOR. 





STHROWCOUL. THE JEWS? 


So they’re going to dissolve all the Free and Masonic Lodges in Germany, rewiite 
the ritual and drop the Jews? Wonder what they’re going to do about Jesus of Nazareth? 
But he—Mr, Hitler would undoubtedly retort—-was the Son of God; not a Jew. 

That is as it may be. But even so, Jehovah’s seed was cased in flesh that came 
straight from the House of David. And the gentie face that bent above the manger on 
that starry night was a Jewish face. And the kindly, calloused hands that taught a 
stripling boy to use hammer and plane and saw were Jewish hands. And the little home, 
where the candles burned on the Sabbath night, and the white light of a splendid tradition 
flamed throughout the week, was a Jewish home. 

Yes—even more! 

Thirty-three years He was to live, and of those years only three were spent in minis- 
try. But those few months have left their mark on all the world. And why? Because 
He was the Son of God? Yes; but also because He was the Son of all His earthly fathers 
--of Abraham and Moses, David and Solomon, valiant old Isaiah, brooding Hosea, with 
a face like a thin bright flame. He was their son, as well as the Son of God. They 
broke the trail His feet were to follow. They reared the temple His hands were to serve. 
They lit the torch that blazes now throughout all Christendom. 

“Throw out the Jews?” 


Page Thirty Eight 


~ 
















































we 
D 





<= 





7 
Lon sitacD— QO ' 


yet? 1G Slee on sxiay 

Kid, EN wpta lo 2o 
booted WH wee: a anode al 

a ay itn made 
bomiraiait onal 2t dalle 

Hari 1 Si Ww enon oa «dad 
- tibet Mug Vert stoma ree 
st6olo he deed »2)1 aad 

rid vider biti pala iia awed om f 
in, ® ‘wptienitd Sar s¥ods hot} ) 
bt Bo a “i igi onhiyt Hana ‘ye | 

ott Tet iia lanee wn! mt borneol anO 
5 ot@ atatha ofw mM of. 





—t bee Api 01 cviok odw oad) neat 
del a hot jedi watq dite bad 
VOTBHIAT D .W 
F in 
= ame mn =) 
‘torial sally cts folr: omy. SW bie jog cdatyy A ati of srudixa Iuli aod : a 


20,1 caw sermithsll- diab (. enue! aes —-neptos “ bhoW 
flares! sented io hod ainil joes cy leucertnest gait « eb seal oe 
2S01 Lng ebanith loog—creldyion bong Loxienode mrad body 
ia) colt to noineD dhe cigne ah svn? oft ae ens bovumneor)” orl? #/ coemnA 2 
‘weciat 4a uted Hts ling somvl do wseedd 2 ose boll lbiveneda we oh reed Ie 
6 esting Ain 4 vprond of bled ester. retuby an ee bowertex! a mh a 
ae 


sf 213 seth ibis aove ne 16) modes hae rei iro The zd lo i 


nt 


<2vl WHT YO woutT (irae 


fmm m <ohe.t ’ ne oot 3 Th. shah a yay ea 
, te “uel Dele ob yey on yatlt telwashne? \ewsl od) qo Be 
vol 6 tot cold 4o ned olteew— ris gibstioubaw bhrow sshitt me: 
jer) cleohogt iboroo ew. lize @ duqemlad ye Gore wut ad cart Ht ae aio 


ne woyonn oh wodt wnxb tile ae sDog ony in, biel lo wool orld nal 3 a™ 
= tows? ed? et i Leumica ind off bok sont deives] « cow dyin we” 
emo slvil oh bot. 2baed Veteol now Wee Boe onulq har rmmed oe at ) 








. rondilaans Gokiies ito Sigil suidy di bag telgen dinddee ot go baad 
| AME iiebeh 6. sn seu oft sagan 

a 4 

+ <i Bb Te se sisw vault Hay {That only do bat vil wi wey 3H Rico: FINI 
‘-aneigaeetl- (abv? beef. ..lilyewes welt iy no Avan rigels fist oz edison wert 10 a 
i. exodus ghinns abt We lot ods vo SEE Yhiieedan ie nid not Shen? ho et ott j 
ive ewok voibguad sleiel ble dunes dninalnd Tine bi , 
qtt bord to tod ary ec Maur zh ante a a 
. arise on oe about etl ah orl teaser nohlot on 

tibteuend ly Mn ” 








Gastern Shore 


But it was Jewish wisdom that gave that first Ciristian His knowledge of men 
and life. 

And it was Jewish tenderness ans love of justice that made Him despise the 
cruelty of Rome, the viciousness of His own corrupt Sanhedrin Machine. 

AND IT WAS JEWISH COURAGE—BLOOD HERITAGE OF ALL THOSE 
TORTURED, DRIVEN SOULS WHO HAD GONE BEFORE—WHICH GAVE 
aM PME STRENGTH TO;DIE FOR-THEsTHING*HE, LOVED-AND, DYING, 
GASP: “FATHER FORGIVE THEM: THEY KNOW NCT WHAT THEY DO!” 

Iam nota Jew. But I ama Christian. And for all that Christianity means to me 
or to the world I must be grateful not only to that young Jew of Nazareth, but to all 
Jewry. . 
For, while the rest of humanity worshipped its little mud idols with obscene rites, 
lusted and looted like the jungle beasts which they were, the fews took the law from 
Sinai, built the Altar, kept the Faith. 

Through desert exile, through incredible persecution, still the candles burned. While 
the power that was Egypt scattered like her desect sands, and the glory that was Rome 
sprawled, a putrid corpse, in her stone gutters, the Jews, without wealth, without power, 
without a nation, still held on. And today our civilization rests on the traditions which 
were taught that little Hebrew boy in the shabby home of a Jewish carpenter. 

Corruption and conniving amongst Jews? Where isn’t there corruption and con- 
vining? What race has a monopoly on that? But against that record, put this—What 
trace has given to the world such beauty, such song, such vision, such sensitive commun- 
ing with the Eternal Mysteries as the Jew? 

AND WHERE IN ALL THE LENGTH AND BREADTH OF CHRISTEN- 
DOM, CAN YOU FIND A SETTLEMENT WHERE THE HOME LIFE OF THE 
JEW DOES NOT SHAME THE HOME LIFE OF OTHER. CITIZENS? 

“Throw out the Jews?” 

It can’t be done. Thank God it can’t! For the Jew is more than a man of certain 
faith or certain blood. He is a symbol—the Sign, made manifest in flesh, of a dream 
which has filled the heart of man since God first breathed His fire into a lump of clay. 
And as long as our hearts shall grope for beauty and order, for love and law, the Jew 
will go on—until at last there is no Jew and no Geutile, only all Sons of God. 


ELSIE ROBINSON 


Continued 


(Copyright, 1933, King Features Syndicate, Inc.) 





JUST GOING ABOUT 


I read 
Ke t. ie In a book 
IF WISELY CHOSEN Where a man called 
: le Beers ate 5 Lar eA a Christ 
Books are keys to wisdom’s treasure; Wet Teboute Avie ee OOd, 


Books are gates to lands of pleasure; It-is very disconcerting 


Books are paths that upward lead; To me 
Books_are friends-—come, let us read. That I am so easily 
Satisfied 


With just 
Going about. 


Page Thirty Nine 


-_—we 






aweq torr : wMilive 2 i 3A 2 uy : : i a 32 1 bintug Rg sk 


7 
yieives } moo an) som ‘wal off wo MW'nes 2 bod) an tt nob od tea 







fe Oi 
bonaiiass— SHON ats 


nom to sybstwond eM setendt) tere oe vay lads miobeiw - ai a It € 

~ ee 

oy seiqesb all slam woul ~via ty sual bee eonwbess tat ors| caw vi bah 

sone nobus? spare) ae te @ paseo. “oh omost jo | on 

JCOHT LA WO 4AOATHOth GOO IIs. TOD Hanay 2AW TI a“ Ne 

AVA HOTAW— 390148 ¢4O0 GAN OMW 21U0e “AVIS a 101 

O4TTO O44 GAVOL Aid QYINT SHT A004 410 OT HT yAaaT2 AMT } i. 
“OW YAIWT TAN W TOY WORAR Y4HMT 44aNT AvViDgOR AHHT AT” 18a 
moot ener ywanwnd ted Ue wt bak cositmind:) « med mfbocwel 5 tor ms 1 

; whsastcVs jo wal y ate Yet oi view fon ‘ulsvewy >»! teu | bhow oft m1 

. ~ 

nm snseedo d j tert sige? ety bes pazete row vitnnmud jo Fee] orld odistur 0 1 

mere | | vis (of dander ence’ slynuj ods oil basool bas Balled 

diet on) sod ala ods tiud i We 

aid WW bona t i] Nob pare 4] ibersne dusrowth lize nweb dguedT 


rail boven saved eow Jedi wwe 




















































Wrath 
divin 2G Yeo bas no lod Iki im nonin £3 " 


: O stor yee a yod vendold old tad) aigee oe 
nas | . vill 3 now Sens RyRomn grivinneo bas nolqana 
‘ ; mun tall “sort noe 4» 6 sul som ww 5 ar 
j ivi ino wire (lot VIGQhS jew Wie ols oj aovrig a 0 

"wal oft ce tony leno oar dsiwrg ga 

rn i “i USHW (IAs 
A THAMSAITTI2 A OY JOY VAD MOd 

) Ms AMO AH Matte TOU 240d at 
“Sowo| ot 3uo wor 


Heli nt Hi Ni oben! ge? oh—lodenye wet oH .boold. nian so dee 
: : [ by ; wernt ye nes : to new ants balla and A 
i vr, yrs! yal tats farle ete an! Tuo Re ynol 26 ba. 

} 4 / jane) on bre » H Off H 319 c luau—o be: 4 


mal eibare esmesl yok fel sdgnyqoD) 


OC LLL I ett 










§ 
Th OFIOD TAIL ie 
hasy I 
Youd #2 al oe > 4 7 
bofisd dain g wa CAROHD TIAA 7“ 
mira 
: . : : “OTs 
von Hote yun hide “a5 V7 TUHNST) a orObsiW of waa om ede 
SO aeneh wor et setveaG Yo sbusl af e109 STR a ot 
” sae am OF {heel bruway ted} niligd pay gHoet 
aa t. 
clixege on aro | tadT beet at tol hiatal si 
y fieitaa oe) 
« reid nny t ~~ pa 






Juody anise 








i ea al 





Eastern Shore 


THE EPITOME OF HOSPITALITY 


Near Pittsville—on the road to Gumboro, lived Benjamin Farlow. Mr. Farlow, a 
hospitable soul, became slightly annoyed at being called ur at night with requests from 
passing travelers for lodging. Theretore he caused to be erected a special wing, or room, 
in which he placed a light, a bed, food, and a jug of rum. 

For many years that room was open to all belated travelers seeking lodging for the 
night. No charge was made for either food or lodging. 


Continued 





A CURIOUS COINCIDENCE 


The late Dr. Edwin E. Tull of Princess Anne, was an avowed agnostic; he took 
violent issue with all sects and religious bodies, and died in that belief. 

A part of the farm on which he lived had formerly belonged to an old mission, a 
branch of Somerset Parish, probably dating back to about 1738. 

Dying suddenly, the Dr. was interred on the site of this old mission—as proved by 
the old foundations upturned when his grave was dug; thus the Dr. all thru life, entirely 
at variance with the Church—was buried in consecrated ground. 

We are indebted to Dr. George W. Jarman, whose farm adjoins that of Dr. Tull, 
for this story. 





ANTIQUES— 


Antiques abound on the Eastern Shore—everything is antiquated but the Shore itself. 
Theat is always new—forever changing—a shifting panorama of unending loveliness. 
Spring and summer, fall and winter, nature is busy making new pictures—changing her 
setting, carving new frames—and continually creating new forms of bewildering beauty. 
Speaking of antique shops, what delightful places they are! Crisfield, Snow Hill, Easton, 
Salisbury, Chestertown, all have antique oe In one corner grandiathers clock icles 
out the time, in another corner is the bed that George W ashington did not sleep on; 
under the sofa is a genuine Strad, made in Germany and brought over on the Mayflower. 





STRAY BITS OF GOSSIP 
Picked up here and there 





The most fun we have in life ‘s talking about our neighbors—and ourselves. Ratb- 
ling thru the Shore we picked up a few choice bits of gossip, which are herein set down 
for your delectation. 


* Dr. Sartorious at Pocomoke City says that Dr. Sartorious 1s the best fisherman in 
Worcester County. (The other Doctors are good fellows even if they can’t catch fish.) 


Gene Maddox opines that Wilfred Ross (Snap) of the same city, is a gentleman—a 
scholar. a good fellow, and a good Mayor of a great town. Far be it from us to contra- 
dict our elders. 


Crisfield has two Chambers of Commerce, Senior and Junior. The city water will 
relieve any form of stomach trouble, It has a new spirit—a new vision, and a determin- 
ation—due to Chamber of Commerce activity, to shortly reach out and annex Princess 
Anne, Fruitland and Salisbury. 





Wiis 


































walet we walter + sireatentl howl prs ul brew 
ment 2 HAYS; hie LL wi tu tothe anigd, in lmvonns “ola: 
(1007 16 NW oes hetoss> oth wt lvsreaies St solved T y| iy 
min le aop et bow bont Lod a, 

of sot parghal gaitow sstavi, baintad Bevo nyo «ne com ctl & 
yisi 1 boo} wilt wil seam 282M 





JOA ACIOAION 2UOLTIO A tad pimp cent > ' 
Joo! od coirongn teu nk tow nw eepant to Hed 2 abel a ose of 


Jolst jet ov both bre wathed, tha gitar bum atoee iy : 
ge noize dilo ab or | aint: viened Tad oval onl ‘boule aware att lo neg A. 
71 inode-gialend prinl aidetoaq ont Y We : 
vd baverq enon bho dda Io ote SID ta farsa oun 1 of lasbboe y in 
Asta old ost Te 1 vel) sud cyl pee wey Had crathe ancien venisbauaed 
vocn bseipend ob behwd eew—doawdd Rate die f 


Huf oC jo tah antoiie “neu Seon sion WF ops oo ml 








—~2T INT vis. : 
ieeti nol? ofp ond Lomnpnns 4 Lnitwiava—modet trate? spf no brnada * cP. 
eoniiovas yh Dio 1 Aire uate sede h-~yrigrnds 19 siol—woe, pre ec ; 
wt wnisvesd>—eowth vet sable peel at gion ear bos Tel sone baw nak 
Anmed conobliood ia eartel ven gens vipaatine bar—eominl yon gate 
noted ALT went tenvrnD » orl) esate, letelgelel nedw aquiels supa wat ever 
vidiois Jiols ae ety 1947 ie P* aiyote spunk ovead He ,woroted) 7 
“no rile ,idb reogordes'? oye?) aon bel edt sicvontin aodsene of lamb 
sswallvalt si neo oe ldgued Tn yin a sbaie be 7 wmnAyy 6 tt clod ati 
> aos ie } ex, | 
{12200 AO ZT TANTS! : Sp ot 
silt birn sind qu bali 

find yviszi0© be jon tow tule unidint 2) abil im sred ov ou) RonY fT 


iWob 2 firevtotl tic 1? Kien « Patti yo Wiul & equ lrod oney yn siodd shy ads 
Jrotcnalsb a: 


ei nemrsrbt teod ol rorone? «C1 sot ever WO sdereel re awentne! 20 i 
Sel dotie tam i4 vollet bog an easel] yao edT) ° vinweD tm 





@ 8 


ae “mgs al ora ®t vio ore Oe do (putt) aod Leal) sale eon patron 
BSancrs or ul meses yal wrod Nery & ty vnepdlt bony wp byte “ol. nts 





lier weer ve wf soiling) ban anne? sn 9 iw hl om a 


ino «bas cal) wo ey vot ee YH olden 
« @ } 
eeoons') “atte Dae tue an Tod ot Caan says ty 


5 
{ 


s ae ia is a ae ae 


Continued 





Eastern Shore 


PLACE NAMES ON THE SHORE HAVE A RHYTHMIC QUALITY 


I found in traveling down the Eastern Shore last week that I was passing through 
many places whose names had often attracted my attention in the columns of the weekly 
papers—names based cften upon ancient traditions, or names inspired by some plainly 
local characteristic—like Rockawalkin, for instance, and Tyaskin, and Mardela in 
Wicomico. In Wicomico County, too, there is a Quantico, White Haven, Hebron, 
Riverton, Nanticoke. Somerset county has an Oriole. 

Queen Anne’s county is not to be outdone by any of them in the matter of place 
names. It has such beauties as Ingleside, Busic, Crumpton, Marydel, Wye Island, Wye 
Mills, Sudlersville, Dominion and Barclay. Kent has Rock Hall and Still Pond, Better- 
ton, Worton, Millington, Kennedyville, and to go back to Wicomico I found also Fruit- 
land, Bivelve, Mount Vernon, Gumboro, White Haven, Powellville and Double Mills. 
Many of the counties have names that duplicate each other; there is a Double Mills in 
Talbot, for instance, and a Hebron in several of the counties. 

Of course, in Dorchester one strikes Vienna almost first of all because of the tang of 
romance in its name; but there are other place names there that are rather interesting, 
such as Hurlock, Secretary, Madison, East New Market and the like; though when I 
want euphony and lyric ring I go back to Kent, where I find Fairlee, for instance, with 


its liquid sibilance. 
And now I am bound to Kitzmiller! 


BENTZTOWN BARD 
In Baltimore Sun 





SPRING ON THE BEAST’RN SHO’. 

Has you seen spring come to de Eastern 
Sho’, 

Wid de yaller jonquils dancin, 

Shinin gold-like ever-wich-a-way you look, 

An de tulips struttin sassy, an de crocus 
peekin shy-like, 

An a sorter smilin at you from every little 
nook? 

Has you smelled de purple lilac, 

When de sun am jes a showin, 

An de rain has fallen gentle in de night? 

Seen wisteria bendin graceful on de wall 

aroun de garden? 

You kin travel fur and not see sich a sight! 

Has you listened, settin lazy, 

On de sunny side de wall, 

To de robin red-breas, chirpin low and 
sweet? 

As de sun gits wahm and wahmer, an your 
haht swells up inside you, 

You kin jes see spring a rompin down de 
street 

I feels sorry for dese youngstahs 

What thinks dey has to roam, 

An go off to furrin pahts to settle down; 

For when de spring time calls em, I know 
dey eraves dey home, 

An to loaf aroun de streets of dis heah 
town. 

You kin have de hills in summah, 

When old Sol im hittin hardes, 

You kin likewise choose de mountains in 
de fall; 


But I’se heah to tell you, Honey, an dese 
ol eyes has seen a passel, 

Twell you’ve seen spring come to de Eas- 
tern Sho’ 

You a’n’t seen no spring at all. 


LORENA J. HITCH, 
Portsmouth, Va. 


SPRING 


I have no time for trivial words-— 
The air is filled with the song of birds. 


Along the open country road 
The hidden sparrow sings his ode. 


The bluebird, perched upon a wire, 
Has notes that rival the ancient lyre. 
The redbird sways upon the reed 
And sends his call across the mead. 


I should not wish to lose by talk 
The music heard throughout our walk. 


SARA SPENCER SROE, 
Sudlersville, Md. 
(Random Notes—Detroit News) 


Page Forty One 







































YELIAUG SIM Ceti ti bam vo 


De ar 
dgquowls soweey ee | mh sbosy mi a ae 
video vals Ye: enrol ol} oi fig ane 1 ci 3 aie fo saath 

¥ 






nici xii vd bevtp vigsts Salta w ‘ 
ar wobhatt bn wideoyt Bia ache “billcoatat. 
2H wcll wii. ain a aon nue) oF 
onh? nn as Aish rm 
22tly lo raver odd ai coors lo Vie ve sHobiue ol oe ton 2 
HW onekloue! Noo! ,oktrmnD edd wbhieslaal ve eiuesd tous aaa 
rorto doma'l Mi? Bar feb doe cate bag wedi hits SS mene 
m4 aen badet | aiusnow WT apt ay born wolhy ihyantee , nurgaillhe ara 
4NB4 sidgoC) bone 9'ly/!sn04 rsa AHA? ude) nents “mde, yin z 
mt clitZ olelaotT c& at oeols fyariity ee yinsilqieh meh zormin sont esismnion de WO ert 
yetieo stile tary si nds « bee some — 
lo yrs? oil! io ceeee’ Ip to no ageedna? sedi seo ysis? ae 
ebevion ‘ortin sy. inflt stall) eorneA ‘bani rio om8 Snarly tod ora’ 
| Aodw aaod) codil oh Lee beh wort well ateabald nein? , 
tw senygent wet elu bed 1 ovadve ans at asad on 1 yan ony! bee 


aide 


ALY AVWOTARIMAN ‘solic A @ baved ms 1 Woe 


— me 





seal os mnudH woz t'at A) theed ani fon “One 4 T2048 SHY LO 


fog nh teary fo 


towed sb Ot enya gatiqa Staal 
eof ah. o) on ; 4 Oe aie FisaeT baat 
vie” erm : -artnh elnprnl nit iw 
fe 30 Sait 1 ts to's v0 eel pov vew~tutoiweisys oA -hiow 
revieens yvbaer eit aeons ob a ees alias agtiog 
KV Darema valf-eda 


ai ereve tor? goy se ilies 


el ofqayg of beflngte a 

yar hiwoede A est oa tre ob i 
, TqGie ih mi olen avllo? end ato 

Hew sh no (Wiest aihsed elioselw 


it on svat] 


. ‘eobtet #6 @ 
ahatd ww mtr Win Dollt et ie OP (le we dole coe sed bas 11? fo 
= ‘sel aivtee bo ne 
Deor wie coun 4A gaolh ita ob white ab 
ty tel wn norpione wshoMt sit han wot wi tits herd. ; & 
. 1ior ne yomdew baw adaw asty preg 
sw 2 uean b uy .pritentd oft ' : 
oy ohlew qn 


S77! Inoinan of) Iovit Jedi #alon enlh ob awob sigaigt & satitqe oom: t La . 
hoot etl nogy azeve bridhet off eaten nite. sea 0? heyy “~ 


' erry ; eee: Mo ado) sad" 
hadia O19 eaa2on [lie eid ahaa THA saver 412} 09 | = .. 2. 
~ word 4 tine een ; 
Hint vd Seoler Heiv Jow Plunile * 


iy _— ‘ 
Minw ave inodgaoit! bias dae oAT feat ath Yo staat ag 2 a 
: xi Pe Vir ee, 


BON NAMATA .FlA2 in ee Se a yoy 
DM ores ibn? ni’ Sienna cite Gee a ‘aro 
(awelt jiovts—esto% vioboatt) Cela met ‘tat 6 


7h. 





Continued 


Eastern Shore 


THE BENTZTOWN BARD— WHEN THE BENTZTOWN BARD CAME 
Dedicated to Maryland’s Best Loved Poet DOWN TO THE EAST’RN SHO’ 


If you’re grouchy in the morning, To the Editor of The Sun—Sir: 
And the task at hand is hard, 

Those stirring spring-time melodies The Bentztown Bard was homesick— 
From the cheerful Bentztown Bard, ~ Homesick for the East’rn Sho’— 

Will scatter the clouds that hover So he packed his bag and locked his desk 
About your troubled head, And left Miss Baltimore 

And the hours—looming darkly, For the sights and sounds, 
Will be diamond tipped instead. The rivers and streams 


Of the dear old EKast’rn Sho’. 
For words with sunshine sprinkled, 
And comfort, love and cheer, 
His pen has never failed us 
For lo this many a year. 


An’ such a time you never saw— 
The wires were gayly hummin’ 
With the gladsome news in every town, 


: z “The Bentztown Bard is comin’.’’ 
eee) 7 may, Wome (be distant, The P.-T. A. and the Lions Club 


The flash of a snowy wing, Put their heads together, 


oN ae eee Nha ers * fairer land—yro> a welcome that would warm his heart 
ee a Wr eee In any kind o’ weather. 


Then uv from the Shore the flowers 


Will come with words of praise, I’m tellin’ you ’twas a scrumptious time 
A sorrowing people’s tribute When the Bentztown Bard came down 
To the beauty of his lays. To the East’rn Sho’ and made a speech 

And down in “Ole Virginny,’’ And sort o’ visited ’round, 
Where men revere his name, With a handshake and a smile. 
There’ll be buds and blossoms fragrant For the good folk in our town. 


With the story of his fame. 


An’ this is our word to the Bentztown 
Bard, 
Best loved on the East’rn Sho’: 
Whenever you can, come back again— 
Come down from Baltimore— 
To find a smile on every face 
And a weleceme at every door. 


Now, in the jovful springtime, 
When there’s music in the air, 

Place on his brow the laurel wreath— 
Our poet beyond compare, 

Here’s luck to you across the miles, 
And stressing our true regard, 

The great big heart of the Eastern Shore 


Sends love to the Bentztown Bard, W. ©. THURSTON. 


Wie CATHURSTON: Salisbury, Md., April 5. 





ONE GOOD FELLOW TO ANOTHER 


A columnist for thirty-one years on the same paper! That is the record of the 
Bentztown Bard and it is little wonder that his faithful fans turn out to greet him in 
person when the rare opportunity presents itself as it did this past week for Eastern 
Shoremen. And we little columnists who struggle with our weekly work marvel how 
any one can keep up the pace day in and day out with never a dull, tired, Aah re 
note creeping into his lines. Well, it 1s that type of Rock-of-Gibralter person with whic 
this sorry old world is blest, that makes easicr going for the rest of us. They are the 
ones who can and do give the words to “stiffen up our backs” and we owe them a 
big debt that can only be paid by stiffening up our own backs and passing on the word 
to the next one who needs it. Among any list of occupational classifications I don't 
believe the classification of “back-stiffener” is given, yet who shall say that it is not a 
mighty noble and important occupation. And the Bard ranks high in that profession. 

NELLFOOAVESPCOIT, 
Chestertown Enterprise. 


Fage Forty Two 






















































i= " % 
. 
| wre 
; see 20 |S .= es e ow -1%. x ‘e aX > : 
; awh Oma ZLUOVSTEAR TD CUTE TA £HO 5 
‘one 4wTaes ANT OT YHOG foot hovod fet wbmnteral of bots 
’ : ‘wn - a 
“te —nv8 ofT Jo sO ert oT aahrionr ods at edovorm eves 
baad et a6. Me aia Apps 
~ aoleemot env hie awosstied woAT esibolom sath 1A Ba 
'‘ahZ at eat «iit 40) st ge bd oa ro jul 
Heel) ehl howtoo! he get vid heteag s wrod tnt # 2 
y wtormtliinth eallé birt /bosd beldecw aw 
H sboves bon edi 1% Setabe ett 
amor bon etouly vdT -basteat beqel) bag iW 
“ode ot tana ilo Veoh af) 10 Se a 
bottaliqu calteney site bre 
WHA VA¥8K bor onan A Afowa ‘WA ian 1sv9 . ty 4 
it@mpid vert oew taal agT ° a tise abs ol 
) wor WSs fi svo0 omodhaie wey <a wes aay dll ined 
| tt eat ny ee ae Janieth od quot at Sane 
(old eGoikt oa) mi nit > ae ent 
748920) aint we aatw «wont # to deaR ‘ 


“yh 
neod ald tau hicow ail) eafestiem e sorg baal rolled 5 gd vol ow spor vet ' 


wToiiwow ‘o bald ve al avis Uiw gage yoteevs, - 
: erro ef! sof? aft aro 
sinh? evoliqaniime 4 eewl wee “life ant oninig Yo abiow dai enzaa af 
awvob seas bre ‘wiisigeS amy walW vindins e'eiqoog, anh J 
dasete a about Gn 's a'taest ans of wth! =? Jo Woned odd r 
bitvet” bojlely ‘oe frow bad “ (onterlV «fO”" ai awoht z 
sikoe u bon sd odabaall 2. tw mea eld stove gem essedW 
nwo? 210 wl #ie? heta af) 409 luargast? einotsold hne ehad od FT 


oumat aid to tote od) AND 
mwoeiaicoth of) of ow tho el Md “oA 


| 
| 


rat saiignings loreot any 
of? av lan «di no hevnl deel Te 9) al olewun oneds oo 
—alene Aved soo 0 vor qweastye ~—~Mideste lowwal ad) woud. sid a6 ie 
—aemP at mon iwhh ame) — Orage: bragad es ee 
oon? lave oo oliqm a hal OF ‘wollig ad} 490794. DOE Gb Jam 
1000 VIAV5 } mmoviow a DHA Lilia owns 100 % 
; s10t@ aistead od} Yo reed eis 
AOT2ZH0nT ) Ww NE) OW SIEIRS. O85 Ga 
¢ iivqéA 0M eumaiiad KMOTSHUINT 2 .W ee 





AIM TOMA OT WOOL GOOD AAO 


Hi i eT Se oom Sty to ereoy oto-ytind) wi 
mM ipat Jone oF too in) 2nd latdiicl etd edi wehaoy, aud 2] ti bn A ai 
mate! rot dyow sen zit bib a ae Meet Mmzety vinuTedge sy of} nov 
wo! Iometi show yidosw suo date sigue ake seannylay siisilovee brady . 
bageiroxb. .bovixy ful «¢ 19090 dite duo web bee at yeh x96q ont qu qzaad fe> ono Yn 
Hise ar sitive noes rstlordit) ede te sper deel) i st LW? zoel ef Gink eninge Me 
wi sve vel wen do wap aed eet nring wrens 2odem ied eld ab throw blo mn a 
ea ovo on Bk wl wo qu nollie” oF elnow od? ang ob bes mer odveowse 
now sft oo ante Lot 2dond avy W6.qu yninohin vd Bagisd no tna ted shal 
Tob | snonbariieegly lntonequeve ie Ril gan ynons. i pee iw 300 Ip 
b de ai ti tort ese Needs webs roy .wovtg ef “Ye82lin-doed” Je moeanenek > 
Hen cieng wa inten eal bel sdebek .nouepe | 
FrOSTeAY. Qian | | 
 wngand nwonswedD  - 


’ 
287) © [G79 


ay 





aout baa 


Easte if Shore ——Continued 


CALM ON THE CHESAPEAKE 


The bay spreads out to yonder misty shore 
Without a ripple on her breasts, : 
Nor flush of whitecaps ‘long the tidal flow, 
Nor curling wave with snow-white crest. 


But silver streaks, and darker breadths 
Of blue, and here and there a gleam, 
As if the sparkling sun fashed back 


From jewels bosomed in the stream. 


Across the sweep of blue lie boats becalmed; 
Their white sail mirrored in the deep 
Shine in the distance like the wings 
Of giant butterflies asleep. 





Down by the line where sea and sky are one, 
Their curling clouds close huddled lie; 
As if the Master painter—whites and grays are done— 


Had lightly drawn His brush across the sky. 
LUCY MEACHAM THRUSTON, 





A MARYLAND ROAD— LAND OF THE EVERGREENS 
Onward and outward the white road beck- Here’s to the land where the evergreens grow, 
ons, In the summer’s sun and the winter’s snow: 

Out where the shadows lie; Here’s to the land where the oyster thrives, 

Thru fertile fields of ripening grain— Where the terrapin crawls and the wild duck 

Under the arching sky. flies; 
i River. ribbon’ that lightly. holds Where the crebs abound in Chesapeake 

The hills in a soft caress; ea ae ' 
Pein pat atta eaemanced? nds ee pride of Maryland’s sons and daughters; 

Fe ER RO er ere’s to the land where skies are bluest— 


Home ties are strongest—hearts are truest; 
Here’s to the sweetest land I know: 
The dear homeland—the Eastern Sho’! 


Flashes of light and cooling shade 
That lighten the heavy load; 
A vista of beauty—a work of art— | 


Such is a Maryland road. MARIA LOUISE ELLEGOOD 
W. C. THURSTON. 


Salisbury. 





Mr. L. M. Kaplan of Salisbury, had gone Sign near the High School: 
along for years an never had a bit of “Pedal Extremities Artistically lubricated 
trouble; then one day he bought an auto- and Illuminated for the Infinitesimal Re. 
mobile. muneration of Ten Cents per Operation.” 


Page Forty Three 






































Ao siqgh o 
(@oR lab st oar potts to 


. aes oil pene dibn one gnihus 2 Binre ; 


ech baat b brs, desu vovlie nih» lee 

enol ae ac no bre ald 1 ne _ - - 
Aud bodegls ave geil dreqe nds wae " 

unwom aft at boroesd alawoy mia) oo he 


4docnteawl ged sit ovld to sis aaa 0 eedle 
quab aly ei bere bez omdw viel w AE 
eyni@ ott adil sonnsetl ott ai aatde a 
quole 2 vodbrojiod iaHtg 7 ; ; ips OF 
one otk wilt bee ase syordw oni! ots yd awe] * a 
ot beibbunt sees ehuols ynihue redT 
oh we ever hey ante —reemg veto ody eA 


Vie at een hvala oven yliigil bat ; 
YVOTZUANT MAADARH Yout os 





—- 


2AAtSONAVIA SMT WO chAd _anOn GUAITAAM A 


of 
- id 

potyaaie a sodw boel diana ed hem sty ab bene bee Ge 

iaidcey ofr bij flere Scorers wip ae 





ds) iswvo off veiw boel off ao vee a! ewobade odd 
ty bliw ont ben ehvss atv ott oli —mere gninegin Io chlo sitet 
wan le yoridare ont 9 
yareraon) TH Duis us ae alton eisetgel read aoddiy 
- ‘ ; 
; boss hot of esti foe @ mt allid of 
TSH IYAED WAS VOR FAUT Tilt. 10 Bey ~vbndl bemations uel Ai 
resale tle oi hoe! also Fae % eit "g gninide J 
= oe . Jeottsd ¢ oem Te —f 
jeou) Fe ? 10th ®e tn one 
unk | t | je opoadle ony aw 2’ sx shle anilons bee redyil bee 
ad? awed ob —beednet) ma ont fbnol yread ols T 
—rne to drow o= we ‘ 
QOOOTIT AAO] ATAAM bine feb th ebuat ) 
odeiled : VOTAAUHT 3 OW i 
tin : 4 
ae Poa f ee : ris “J 48 


sloude2 dgrecolt ano oud ions bed “anita tot a 
buestdul vlowed souinenme | Yo tt 9 bed wr88 Fn "7 
of Iteorrelal od wet lvenirulll. Site «alue ac iynad bri Be * 
"nota tq eine) mah gp auimrdilage 


Gastern Shore——Continued 


EASTERN SHORE Gini 


Why do people Jove the Eastern Shore? Whar is that intangible something that 
grips and holds the visitor from far or nears So far as we know the secret has never 
been divulged. It has been attributed to blue skies and sparkling waters-—the fields white 
with harvest, and white ribbon roads that lead to enchanted spots. But these were all 
wrong. Perchance if there was one who dimly realized the real reason, modesty—a 
marked characteristic of the Eastern Shoreman--forbade that it be void. 

- But the time has come to speak out in mecting, and teli the world that the charm 
of the Shore is the Eastern Shore girls. There, the secret is out! You may have suspected 
it before, but here in plain black and white we write it down that he who runs may read, 
and woe be unto him who dares take issue with the truth we have revealed. One ha’' 
only to see these girls to have all doubts dispelled. 

Who could depict their youthful grace and charm—their sweet wild ways—with 
smiles that break and ripple over faces fair as summer flowers? Not we. If the un- 
believer still doubts—let him come and meet Virginia, Florence, Nettie, Dorothy, Isabel, 
Hazel, Alice, Grace, Mildred, Pauline, Jeanette, Ruth, Ardis, Nancy, Aline, Evalyn, 
Bernice, Elaine, Beatrice, Bernese, Merrill, Mamie, Mzud. Helen, Iva, Ida, Ann, Gertrude, 
Meredith, May, Frances, Elsie, Julia, Juanita, Josephine, Marion, Peggy, Bobbie, Marietta, 
Elizabeth, Margaret, Laura, Madeline, Caroline, Louise, Elva, Louella, Hilda, Edith, 
Aleine, Esther, Mary Jane. Sarah, Eunice, Willye, Katherine, Alma and many others 
whose faces are just as foir. Their last names? Oh well, that is a different matter. 
These are all Eastern Shore girls, renresenting the finest womanhood in the world. 

And what if they do smoke their cigarettes, take a glass of beer occasionally, and 
wear queer little hats perched on the beck of their heads—or rakishly leaning over the 
right ear! Those minor quirks of conduct in no wise reflect on their natural charm, 
nor mar the purity of their sweet unsullied womanhood. Bless their hearts, all of ’em! 
With dimpled cheeks and smiling eves, any man’s heart is safe in their care. Soon they 
will all marry and settle down to live havpily forever afterward. And maybe in the 
years to come, some sprightly little miss will dig this book out of the basement—or 


bring it down from. the attic, and exclaim “The idea of anybody raving about grand- 
mother like that!” ; 





PROGRESS AND PLENTY 


A number of Eastern Shoremen own automobiles. Sometimes the garage 1s larger 
than the dwelling, and occasionally the automobile is larger than the garage, “In that 
event, the dog sleeps in the garage and the car roosts outside. 


% 





Idle hours mean empty pockets; if you — Selfishness is the cohesive power that holds 
want monéy youll have to go out and get it the molecules of humanity together. 
—the world will not bring it to your door. L. M. Kaplan 
136; leveland White 


Page Forty Four 


es 


Lawrie} —— 

























nist aNowe VATTOAA et 


ted! yoidernce vidygeanini, Ht a int WF “wad? pr nt le 
raved ted tose oft wend ow an tebe Samed w ret 
ytithw eblect sul~--tatew grill Ama bre eyide suid of bandit o * 


Ih. stow earl il atoqe Lespedams at besl art) cbuer nod pt 
o—ywrobon aoe Inst od? basilen gimib ofw ptt ow « 


los ol nn 1eat dade) ~—narnrode m 


metres ot sort) bhow wh Het ban ge taber ai ano dnoge a= 
bemsscaue weed vor ue “en ae peRise ah ed chy sada 
Lussi Ver? enut of? seb vemiy wnoh - 1 sw aw vite bn adoald ntala 
éof oo) .belese over! ow Apoye offt finiy otter oiler covet) orlw oe told ou ° 
Seilloqeis -iduab tle vem on @ cult ote 
Kievr-venw bliw owe iied+-ompatie Bae sey luidmoy sind ant 
ou oft Wo ow to “opowelt poeniaue es tial esac evo slaniy bee drond tr ~ 
sdeal wvrhowl ome” sansrolt aaniyal? mot bie sone tft 29h ‘Tite 1: 
aylivd wilf, pant ily vty sevens wontloed Jonbild som 
jerens) .ad/ me crt sole uel, sine flaw)? seed soneall 
wyoirkt/ ouldoll vga jon, sollevel cotten] tly] shi asa yer 
(aba abhi “ate vel oi sawed solloves) onilsheld ryt sen 
: vivort nip. on ih DB wilh cinwa ofeset® cael wel 
ie wrest e@ a int live AD teen wel tied? titel an uy 7. 
ilrow of) at booraemow teSan ot gtisetersreton vhag snare aveaed the : 
b Minow wed lo actin ft oat oP HEINE, vis Yer) sdoere ah vote Hi rng 
sli y ono vislvider to-~—etiun d sicoelt 19 dowd orlt ( leds end oad 1 
Jims ier ark one ral sre on. nt Thee 16 aie ron 
‘oes Go fin encod vinlt col o bondapmiw hadloqwe mse yard jo vinwa 
ft i? aio vied ai fee need enim yon aor got bee oe oe 
4) ont ofjern has Incwistig ovate viewed svi or aweb sin baa 
inomaeat ot ic nwo ded aft ath Wiy mim oinil wludwined ‘oniee 
fn guivny vieefvon W pale ott” minises hee cits orl eoatl 





VIVA OY4A 22a00084. 


wenn! oF omany oft eomuimne? olidemoatws ave momnoed? mace 
iat al ogemity oft ool rsnapl ef alidemioiae 9 vilcndiees pep 
hie anon rast hak onceg oft ni equale gob sav 





ehlort inelt ievemy asizattny oslp zi seagslertle? wor Vi ;# 
raflioge! viinncwil Ww eslalan odt Teg bar joo 
4 be a00l qwoy at tt 
Re J Pe | - “9 
ondW ba 


Eastern Shore 


THE EASTERN SHOREMAN 


If there’s anything that happens that is 
really worth your while, 

If there’s anybody doing anything to ms#ke 
another smile 

If there’s anybody helping to move the 
world along, 

If there’s anybody righting any kind of 
human wrong, 

If there’s anybody setting times and places 
in a roar— 

You can bet your bottom dollar he is from 
the Eastern Shore. 


If there’s anything that cheers you with 
its comfort and its glow, 

If there’s anything that helps you to 
develop and to grow, 

If there’s anything that’s singing all the 
day of light and cheer, 

If there’s anything that holds you to the 
beautiful and clear, 

If there’s anything of good in our dear 
old Baitimore, 

You can bet your bottom dollar it is from 
the Eastern Shore. 


If there’s anybody praising some woman’s 
charm and grace, 

If there’s anybody crazy over an old time 
mother’s face, 

If there’s anybody dwelling on the right- 
eous and the sweet, 

If there’s anybody bubbling over things 
we have to eat, 

If there’s anybody speaking of a land of 
charm and lore, 

You can bet your bottom dollar that he 
means the Eastern Shore. 


Editor’s note: 

The author of this beautiful tribute to 
the irrepressible Hastern Shoreman is un- 
known to us. However, we strongly sus- 
peet it was the Benitztown Bard, Whoever 
it was, all honor to his name! 


THE LAND I LOVE. - 


I am part and: parcel of all that is 
Of the land in which I live; 

Iam flesh and bone and heart and soul, 
And all that a man can give 


To the city, the county and the State 
In which he makes his home; 

I’m a son of the soil and here I’ll stay— 
Nevermore to roam, 





Continued 


I am one with all that buds and blooms, 
I’m fellow to the trees, 

I’m one with the flowers and grassy slopes 
One with the birds and bees. 


I’m one with the forests and fertile fields, 
And the winding little streams; 

My pulses throb with her vibrant life; 
Iam part of her hopes and dreams. 


I’m a son of the soil—whose fruitful yield 
Is a gracious gift of God, 

I am root and branch and all that grows 
From the sun-kissed mellow sod. 


I am fruit and fiower and bud and tree, 
And loyal to the very core; 
I’m one of the Clan—you may have 
guessed, 
I’m from the Eastern Shore 


W. C. THURSTON. 


OLD MARYLAND ROADS 


Old Maryland roads in my memory dream 
And with me their vine-tangled borders 
ride; 
Wherever my roads, by desert or stream, 
Old Maryland roads in my memory 
dream. 
Her laughing waterways glance and gleam, 
All her vagrant perfumes drift at my 
side— 
Old Maryland roads in my memory dream 
And with me their vine-tangled borders 
ride. 
The dreaming roads of my Maryland go 
To bless the roads where I ride or rest— 
Where the orderly elm-arched = streets 
drowse slow 
The dreaming roads of my Maryland go; 
And their fall-flaming sumac and maple 
glow 
Pass the swamp’s gray moss, past the 
pine’s tall crest 
The dreaming roads of my Maryland go 
To bless the roads where I ride or rest. 





MARY DAVIS TODD, (A Marylander) 
Fort Brown, Texas. 


For this exquisite bit of verse we are 
indebted to ‘Interludes,’ a_ delightful 
resume of Maryland poetry, formerly pub- 
lished by William James Price, Baltimore, 
Md. Editor. 


Page Forty Five 








emoold bane ebud rads (ie rhe nite” AV } 
eer sf! of WolisT my 
aeqola yaeata bin arswell sl thw ae 
yed how eireted ode nylw ee 


2 
« 


abjo® offhe bes meee? oft Oily ono my 


pest no vTe git auifi'w 9m) ik 
avi Jueudie iol dove del) ane ge 





















































stem of oid 
edt evorm gi 


extasth bits eiqod wil fo seq OF lo bait qos anisdare 
biety tattlon) seoltw— five odt lo tran a ay aornly Bus anisitink’ 
Jaa) Yo ti anernmg 4 4 ; « 
eworm dads i) Haase Bao Bor wth} atotd eft od 16lob anothod 
bow sear Pesetd-iue oT 270m 
tel 
a13 bow bud hoe owen haa uw we iiiw age aod, ‘aad3 vale 
e155 7% + incl Oth wolg wi . 
wri j i*) ‘ Yo ant ol of voy aglod Jest? wat 7 
bvneul 
jodt2 ween sat atoila'd od) itu aniante sends yal f 
: wedo baa Sigil, 6 4 
“weyremilirne 3 WW out oF thor shiog dec? Io bak tae wrod? 
: Jesls ban tas es 
"aob 19 mm beew Yo suldnn § 4 + 
ae 7 toes 
won) #f Ji 1alloh mened reee ded 
rode. aveiedlly te 
SOLOR Use HAM CLTO 
virminoy omer gale vhodcan e# 
anesh veo 2 ; . ba niniatt tO @onia baa ; 
wwhiiad tidmdal Wy thy Das sil blo ga 198T0. ¥20T eben tem, a9 
; 308) at 
0° yviedW? -)falt «di ao aciilewh ebodzas & 
4 Ho Joews elf boa 
i ganiidy sw7o soilddud “(bodens & : 
j boa ut } rol napk eae ov 3 
: iri rt nit TA jo Basi c lo galkaoue t{hodvaw 4 ! 
siyla rol bae aes 
ftranth yuna rool eh Acre) MO. ot tedt callob mavod mee tod Bae 
ind | al anit? Wi aft wv A siodk avons ong sate 
i“ i vat Au itatuteeth wAT ‘10a an 
mat at af A80F mo otuditt tatiiwaed aid! to 40d%pe 
vil | [nob ct ret amd = gaged? wend otdfemigerd 
at th -sue ihatiov®s ow «ovewoH af 6) aw 
ou bus! awt iy onl” ya7sedW bial avomdot od) eaw 1: 
invert wareh-let the hak . tomen vid of 1omOd Ne asm 
ii nia ¢ 
Mu ! “32 w1hw nti? ran ————— 
} 1 teat = ott i 
» burnly yo vin YO eis Nouty oAT ” #7011 @7A1 Gar 
jeor co oles | gvaile sham ratd at 
ai avel ifa lo tewiaq bee Ee 
ebanierate, A) GGOT etvic TiPA evil | dotaw at on a 
nowy waved nw aliox bits. riaod bya oe 
evig 965 anim aan 
win we aware Jo Hd etieienxe sid? Tot 7 
invietieh on ‘sebrieerci: of « tek -gite oll! bua u0D | 


~+pale Fralg sel, Jo omrken 
gdinet aoe ad hee 
ipo. WHE 


ei itip vitontet , 


poradatt 


ra Mabel wii 


3 
poe ww 






-ourod 


vi bs 
wate 1 ome baat wer 


wan ain Sa bay 


Eastern Shore 


SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT 
Crisfield feeds the King of England— 


Kent County is the oldest county oa the 
Shore—Wicomico County is the youngest— 
and deports herself accordingly. 


Charles J. Truitt, former editor of the 
Times, was the youngest editor in the State 
and the youngest historian. 


The prettiest baby on the Shore—except 
yours, is the editor’s grandson. 


Two women on the Shore are said to be 
responsible for their respective husbands 
being elected to office. Names on applica- 
tion. 


The best bootlegger on the Shore lives in 
Worcester county. 


The biggest liar on the Shore lives in 
Salisbury. 


The finest woman on the Shore lives in 
Berlin. 


The best coon dog on the Shore is owned 
by Judge Johnson. 


The biggest fish ever caught got away. 


Mrs. Jones—never mind the town, said to 
her husband— 


“Night before last you came home yesterday, 
Last night you came home today, 
If you come home tonight tomorrow, 
I am going home to mother.” 


Where grit and muscle are needed— 
Where brain and brawn are tound,. 

You can bet on an Eastern Shoreman 
Being the first man on the ground. 


BRIGHT SAYINGS OF THE 
OLDER CHILDREN 


“There are only two of us,” said George 
Kennerly, when honest men was the sub- 
ject of discussion. 


Profits and poverty are twin sisters 


L. M. Kaplan 


Page Forty Six 


-Continued 





History is Galy a brass plate which we con- 
sistentiy polish in order to see cur own re- 


flectien. L. M. Kaplan 


Life is just one automobile payment after 
another. 1 Nien Wa 


Life is a shifting panorama of rainbow 
tinted dreams that never come true. 


Wace. 


To destroy any man make him feel im- 
portant. As soon as he begins to feel his 
importance his brain shrinks and his head 


swells. LM Kk. 


Religion in its fullness simply means right 
living. Dr. Hamilton: P. Fox 


The man who is a slave to John Barley- 
corn has a pint bottle mind. Selected 


History is a glorification of crime at its 


worst. Heel bel ee 


Man can’t change anything but himself, 


and that’s the hardest job he has to do. 


WiC. 1s 


Signboard on the Eastern Shore— 
This is God’s country—don’t drive like 
hell! 


Great men change their minds—their 
wives make ’em. 


It takes two to make a bathing suit im- 
modest—one to wear it and one to look at it. 


One sweet thing to another—“Are you 
going to return my book on etiquette, or 
will I have to come over there and lam you 
one?” 


“Dear Lord”, prayed the fair young co-ed 
at the State Teachers College, “I don’t ask 
anything for myself, just give mother a son- 
in-law.” 


Heardeut a Pat Ay Mecringe.a1 chad 
rather have him say ‘I ain't seen’ if he ain't 
seen sompthin’ than to have him say ‘I ain’t 
saw’ when he ain’t saw nothin’.” 


venrmn setae! ani ithe esitnsesinstnn 
en eee pc ch nn A Rt ttre 


a ¢. 
- - ae 


oo 


“Nos a lide staily anal = (its gi atone 
“91 AWO WO 392%) iobi9 Hi ikilag pon ns 


anigpa WM ll 
tote tnontyeq sliders tat Depa ade 
je cradles 
Heda 3a RAIGION hg yurtlirke & ti ot) 
ont stqes joven wht neath Gost 
ee id 


atid oder gan vue N@beb of 


ui toad oF afin! of cc note SA opted 
beat aid bee edanvle cinrd cet sopistabepeist 
A NM a! alone 


mosey vigreris 2eonllu) eh nb nope 


oft 4 note 3 nivil 


Misii 


rae adel er orale wn ep ove cern oF 
D 4 Lown siyod sam ¢ etal om, 
271 ' min io naenn wiry i t rowH 
rims ; Jeow 
tit) ~ vy 3 iid nes onbf 
ts of ctat ol rihy sestnad off cguls dine 
r 2 WwW 
2107/2 Axend oft qo. breedtigi2 
| iyhy 9 00 mide) whee adf 
isd 
1j3—ehorrt els 4 ih ru jen 
no stam 2oNTH 
uw 3 Moi) & 3A OL OM zon i 
Te wi hun 1 1ce" Of oth—vebom 
Way of’ vali Oo} yrint steve on 


auod yt mun al yoy 


ye ated haé sar) osve sinew or seed Thy 


“Lone 
body onitoy wi) Daving “thal yl" 
S4, 1 kif, ol eroitzesT wet? orlt me 
fibe n vefisoen. vuabe slant IOV sgavirbaigane 

webai 
bed 1° suonmeM 4. .P A & of thet 
Tour atl ti oe. dan T° vee etd ved aonb 
Yan I’ vie whi sve] ap vent “nite Nop? 


"often vee tie of nodér “Were 


























Snadon= tp 
ols mm vine oa . 
—-wIYyNVEY oe a =m 


ois o it a 
eat ee 1 


apoxr—syode ily a yded 
, 2 
oi at bire 6 nod? calf 


ebasdeud svmaqen tied 
-<oilggs no zine watfe ore 


ai wv nod2 wh oo raygale 


ai esvil sed2 ofa ag gel § 
m eovel worl? sdt.no nemow 


lamwe «i nod? oli mo gob £003 | 


mele 


“ewe jon theese tave Wea 


Of lise wrod) oft} Kolm 


vobroteoy orto orn voy deal 
‘ibe otaed senna oo set 
rence? woinel 


“witeen on seed yaiog stig 1 


—iilern dn sheam bate 

dive on awed bas ated 
cerned? moteed ac no tod nap 

bowery si ae nein mal os ye . 


THT FO @Ovrthe 
“AAG AAC 

omoe) Liha "an Ie ows foo a a 
dle ot) een, teeny ee 


a 
a ele aoe 1 


oly A I od 


Continued 





Eastern Shore 


FAITH AND AN OPERATION 


The party who told this story positively refused to state whether the Doctor involved 
was Dr. Dick of Salisbury, or Dr. Norris of Crisfield, but he did vouch for the truth of 
it as herein related. 

An old colored woman was being prepared for an operation. As they rolled into 
the operating room, the old lady inquired-—“Doctor, is you a Church membah?” “Yes, 
Tam.” “I’s a membah, too. Doctor, can I pray?” “Yes.” “I’se gwine to pray out 
loud.” “Go to it,” said the Surgeon; and this was her pra ryer—"Lawd, dis is Tildie, 
I’s in the horspital, up on the foth floh in de operatin’ room, gwine to be op’rated on. 
The Doctor’s gwine to op’rate on me. I h’ar he is a good Doctor, an’ I trust him—but, 
Lawd, I wants you here to strengthen his knees, and guide de hand dat holds de knife; 
yours truly, Lawd, Amen!” 

The operation was a success. 





TALL STORIES 


In the old days bicycle riding was great sport. Bicycles had no brakes in those days 
and sometimes ran away; especially when going down hill. 

Descending a long grade a Gentleman’s bicycle got beyond his control; noting a 
path that veered to the sight he managed to steer his eet earit bike up the steep one 
that led to a cottage on the hill. Still going at great speed—he noticed a large board 
resting on the edge of the roof sloping penly to “Me ground. Up this board he went, 
climbed the roof ae rolled down on the other side. As he came bouncing down on 
that side it so happened that the old lady and her daughter were shaking out a large 
rug—on which he landed, bounced once or twice, and then rode on around the house 
and continued his journey without losing his seat or his dignity. 





ANOTHER TRUE STORY 


There is an old superstition to the effect that rats can read. Drifting down thru 
the years, it finally became an accepted fact that if one was troubled with rats, and would 
write them a polite note, requesting that they take their departure, the rats would very 
obligingly do so. 

The story gained credence in Salisbury, and one dear woman, whose home was 
over-run with the pests, decided to take action. In pursuance thereof, she penned a brief 
note to the rodents, asking them to vacate the premises. She suggested as a new location 
that they move over to Mrs. B.’s home. Mrs. B. by the way was a former neighbor with 
whom she had had some difhculty. 

Lo and behold, tn a tew days every rat was gone. The cats had to be fed with raw 
meat and fresh fish, or they would have left also. 

The sequel of the story is quite interesting. Several weeks after the departure of the 
rats, a neighbor called who lived close to Mrs B. “By: the: way,’ «she remarked; “Her 
house has suddenly become infested with rats; they run all over everything”. Mrs. A 
smiled‘and said she was serry. 

We had this story at first hand from Mrs. A. herself, who is perfectly willing to 
vouch for its authenticity, and it is passed on to our readers tor what it is worth. 

If rats bother you, well, here’s the stcry, and Mrs. A. says she will stick to it. 


Page Forty Seven 





Veaseether 


nape . “se 






































pete aoe 
exsissidlaieanen avs HUANG) 


bevidvad yoru) oft isitioder one Be ere bac hr ty Lilow ave we ; 
to ituny sdt vol dovev bib of sul”, fod 7tde ee 3 4 ; al ‘: 
bai ly al ib Qnied ‘een ire » nea 
oii beller yartt «/. .aguinsdd ne Wi baiggety fer DIO Ae 
aar" “Shiai dad 2 usy i Anno E—leritupni rel t 7 rr t 
nia gg or amg gel” “eo Gapag f nka,,oraCl a ni a 
viblil +i rib bet —asyerq seed aeme 2 ate Fon oft ble | i OF, 0% 
0 hens le HY |nyOl ‘aitetajo ob or doft ritet ods ao ¢ tht Swe . 
Jud ford wi | if HG boo & at od wed J oon no er'qa a we, ere ef 
‘shind sh eblod smh band ob obiurgy bra zvbed art! worlryesee of nal wor ohn Lowes 
“toomA ,bwil hig ame 


ee A ee NOs 


p 


> 






ae * - - 


itteeenemnnneenatietinatinmtcnsemadenamne a 


@MAOT? TIAT ’ 
eveh aoumds a idind on bed alayoitl Frog? i319 ana nih ni aloyoid ea! be 


‘Til aavobs ying naib glintoxges ; yous pnt 


6 pation lone eul bnuysd cog SByahd eaihrealine n abme gaol « 
H : Wiis qos) oft qu sdkd inenisiqen sheer a bh yuenam of ‘ios ond of bapeer 
’ Ditad sumet © Loon hooye Inety.?e Dien Ia? lid ot no geno ges bol i 
ingve srl bre “hal eur st ot (lips geidéle Yor ody Vo sgl od7 ho * 
we awAb 3 ceri > wieh vob wore asst no ovrob baila: base too adi 
Boum yarlode soon ctl gunh aod Tak ye tile orkt sere desqqed oe at shin 
ol sn! site) Sheet ) bes ~one ay) sone leiaued \bebnal od dotdve oe 


y i ‘ . a on ae 
ub ano jem eA gneal nerhinw yomuos zd bounune> ’ 


—— 





j 
‘AOT? TUAT SAETOMA "5 


ri . (1 tien aim om aid Susilo oto dorasqua blo an al watt 
iiia ry, AP iW, ri iv gu Te See pal byatepo ace, im “nteeoel viloam sw 


bigow Joi 0 .wwhigl) ved adn gold gl LNA en weg & 

2 Ub ¥ 
enw rh nid .cocioe lash afO Dae rutile ov snbata Eeniiy ome 
tend «lor : Wie<Wwarsi seu iu i! .qoitze odes oF lscolatcouly soa ie 
HICH) Won hn 20 15 uu Se meal Seals, alt he? Gl m iy yates oti ¢ 
dita aed rigton win? ow Viw orl} yl AL, settod 24 iM ay 1970 SVRRU GO Snee 


wolf. gure burl b 


Wt daiiv? luot off of bert en # bh White ak ta fyo"9 eveb wot i te, er er me - 


eke Fol vrert Uluciee” gel ae 


wh to auanqah ott tpletdeow Inyoree ae a Sup 2i OED jon an 

tabi" penne Nn ole “Sawn stl Yh at © ola teaeal cabeyy a ua gion , end 
4a. guides cave lle eet oadt jeter Te bewslal, senoail dp t Ls 

ne oe 

oF undliy yitavtial ecco \ihoetid Ae tell burned watt 1 16) 

Ayitey 2b wal aie eT) THO). he gare “a $! a 


Ji oy dv Tre ade eine 1 ol tins _ 


a prqwe2 ytio? nef 


Pe st 2 
a 5 5 se coal oe 





Aerlin 


Berlin traces its beginnings back to a tract of land called “Burley,” granted to 
Colonel Stevens in 1677. J. S. Purneli and his wite, im i834 built Burleigh Cottage, 
a stately and roomy edifice surrounded by a mass ef shrubbery, and shaded by beautiful 
trees. Burley Cottage e, as it is still called, contains many interesting relics of the Colonial 
period, and is now occupied by the erand-daneliery of the orginal owner. 

An old sketch of the town reveals the fact that the country around Berlin was 
trodden by the first Europeans that ever entered what was to be the Colony and State 
of Maryland. In common with her sister towns, the section around Berlin abounds with 
historical data, far more than this brief sketch wii! allow. According to Prof. Harry S. 
Covington, now deceased, Verrazanno, an ftalian cavigator, landed in Sinepuxtent Bay 
in 1624, and called the country “Arcadia,” because of the beauty of its trees. His ship— 
the Dauphine, preceded the Mayflower by ninety seven years. 

At South Point, the end of the Sinepuxent Neck, lived and died the regicide Major- 
General Edward Whaley, a cousin and officer of Oliver Cron well, and one a the Judges 
that brought Charles the First to the block. After the restoration, Whaley fled with a 
price on his head to New England, finally settling near Berlin on the Sinepuxtent Bay. 
He was known as the “Gray Eagie,” of the seaside, and his descendants still live in 
Berlin and Whaleyville. 

On what is known as the “Decatur Farm” Commodore Stephen Decatur was born. 
The old house in which he first saw the light of day is still standing. 

Of legend and tradition in and around Berlin, there is no end. Ghost stories are 
still heard, end the colored Gentleman hurries home at night when his way leads past 
the graveyard. But ordinarily Berlin is a quiet and sedate little city. The pioneer spirits 
of the past sleep peacefully: beneath the moss-covered stones that mark their last resting 
place. They were all good men and true, but no glorious past has ever produced two 
finer charecters—and none more beloved, than the late Dr. L. P. Bowen and Dr. Charles 
A. Holland. 

Dr. Bowen was the poet of the Shore, and no man has sung her praise in sweeter: 
verse. He was God's Nobleman. 

Dr. Holland, who was living when these sketches were begun, was the typical 
conscientious physician, with broad sympathies and a heart of gold, who gave his life 
that others might live. “Greater love hath no man than this.” 

As this is written another man—made in the image of his Maker, is lying 
upon a bed of pain. He, too, sacrificed many years of his lite in unselfish service to his 

Buddies.” Berlin remembers her illustrious dead—she is proud of her past, but she is 
not ashamed of the tears that were shed tor her beloved Dr. Holland. 

The soul of a city is the heart beat of its people. Berlin is filled with tragedy, and 
romance and self sacrifice, and over it. all broods the spirit of noble womanhood. But 
that will net be history until tomorrow. If ten men ce save a city, there are two 
women in Berlin—tender, compassionate, and pure of heart, whose splendid lives could 
make amends for all its sins—past and present. 

Berlin vigorously protests any connection whatsoever with the capital of Germany. 
The stage route leading from the Virginia counties thru Maryland, and what is now 
Delaware, had their stables for changing horses on the Burleigh Plantation. There a 


blacksmith shep was built end the little town started. It took the plantation name of, 


Burleigh, which in time was abbreviated to Berlin, retaining the accent on the first 


syllable. 


Fage Forty Eight 


—_—. 


ee 


FonalT owsemell YWyishwil st ge dad sanyerdy Yebaskbets vied bud 4 
(fo sec contany oft door al eye ayes sini! oft has linet ener vite ef 



































or bamag “yah” beatles Sah is kt & OF And i 
ayushol) dy —o Hud feet galtve 2th baw Heaw | eA Te Ione gator ak 
lutguasd vd Tobe cbt a aie he ain't vd ra e2 or 
idinele) wit te oir aaitess aie war eningnas .bolins lite @ tt 
ionwe Innigine 37 Io Towhgath-biey oft vot c omg 

ev dio baiji. wianes a ud om! alevin nwa 
ai? bre gnolod od) sd ob ane ede Beisine yore seild e 1 
Aiiw ehmistds 5 «pa Lanoe Oaduga oft ferteen tetele rod elite ; 
énell tol @ vochraw, .wolettiw diet tod aft ache 
(nil HiaTKNQ ae im ‘oe AON a | tf, owns , . 

ile ald 2eelio myesd ent6 sane “ mbenk” runes sit Balled 


2h aes yori ed remattel orl rege | ase 
iofilY, shivfyo: ony bob line beyll sit suo anal oly +o bos ors 


t ot 16 sto bes Jhwien ‘HapniG % ravito Lue oretas £ eed Ww brewebl te 
v lat volo .eoliaidéat of A abeld od op sed oft elm 

Diu ie Sn) nO u lint Ths! prilitze ueaa bwelgod wot aj bod 

iis mies ent ban aio: 0 lo “.iged ymO” ons op owondl 

; allivgotad Wt 

ine “1 norhyore syehomunoD “ree smell" ods 2c nwo hans 

wie Wise a 2th io tleilars wre wo od did ai, 

mre hold bes on a sed hed bavere bos ab nosibew- bee 

pafrol gow sd net tdgin ie sal eimed rtemsban. boolos od boay 

elas vow, all va vbnal ytibioe Dag janie 6 44 tihoth yinenilao of ok 

a tt it avon lol eae Litereeedir od? dinaead vllotlooesg, qoale ae 

muti ‘ Bil Jere ev onohy ™! Tt) nw We aon Loy fle ove 

shine] uu FA | 341 stint als aerlt ovoled s30cn suan ba ‘ 


j tor gour cdf diate on Gane enedé ot to oq oft ew ana 
nmoldaA chon mew ae 


‘y .ovtol new sadspdbowels nab grin! ecw ofw ,palieoi 
ody nol b hvinestheqare bend min acing aan 
deggie oF dks! avel ratenid" covil sige e 
1: eh al yor Sf nt olent~-urn teres aoniew spedinl 
ant ut wiewe Aelieenn. »! Date mee fiom beviitow «oo 3H nian to ‘.. 


fuel aq ert to We 7 t 4tle—bash evortealli md aden abe sid Ly . 
nilial) ae lesivehal al ot baile ow rei’ eon ool To eek 

ack ,vbourdubiv boll a ya yeeg 21 to 6d neo oils ai side vera 
wil ~bowldtimow sidan ¥ hire wh vhaod Wn ove bee hier tse: tome aot 
a7 on go ono 6 owe Digog étage WT woenomer Tang t od ane 
hinos <o7il Uilalqe seodw ott Jo Ta br, “aneivanyine> , 
toe beck maq—aalpest 

(antives) lon wh dite yyy nelieare yon seer 
Hen a sake bie ielasl/ tev sop ptt! adr mow 


tzu! orf io Yiroose els eres nol ol lLetgre adele sew omit ais 





24449 Was 
Co 
_— 


Aerlin ——-Contirued 


EASTERN SHORE GRKRAVEYVARDS 


Oh, the epics and elegiacs and lyrics and thivenodies uf the Eastezn Shore graveyards! 

Ossian might well sing here again his songs ot Morven. Breathe it in—the filial 
poesy, for its humanizing and uplitting. We need relief from the material, the selfish, 
the humdrum. We need our dead! Zhey make heaven real and close. This ts the true 
poetry of life—the rhyming together of the past and the present and the future. Thus 
the soul gets its refinements and its pinions. 


The old plantation graveyards where lie the murmuring dead, 

Where moved the slow procession and the sundered heartstrings bled 
Where rose the supplication ard the bymmns of love and faith, 

And preachers talked of heaven and the (riumpn over death. 


The old plantation graveyards where in the solitudes 

The plaintive spirit of past days still like a presence broods, 
And floats about the scene like mist that lights and disappears, 
The friendships of the fathers and the loves of vanished years. 


The old plantation graveyards the owners passed away, 

The waving wheat and silking corn in onr ancestral day, 

And then the tread of strangers, where low the coast wind moans, 
The plowshare grating ruthlessly above dishonored bones. 


The old plantation graveyards—it can not hurt the dead, 
The hurt is to the living, the finer instincts fled; 

The voices of the hoary past, the treasuries of time, 
The badge of immortality and of sentiment sublime. 


Excerpt from Dr. L. P. Bowen’s Makemieland. 





POEMS 


Poems are not made to order; they are not on tap like water. No poet—however 
great, can call at will and have them answer “here.” , 

At times they crowd in like children trooping home from school. Again, all the 
King’s horses and all the King’s men couldn't coax one from its hiding place in the cosmos. 
Inspiration—moods? A rose by any other neme would smell as sweet. The critics are 
all wrong. Poety is not an interpretation—it is the inner man, the overflowing of some 
little fount that bubbles in his heart. 

With the greater poets it is a rushing torrent, like the waters of Ladore, plunging 
madly and hay on. 

With those of lesser talents it is but a tiny stream trickling down from the unseen 
heights, but just as surely finding its way to the grect sea of life. It is a shallow stream 
and ships may not ride upon its bosom, but in the dark it sings—even sweeter than the 
great rushing river. 

30th have the same mission—both are serving to fill some part in the divine plan. 
Epic, classic, or simple rime, each has its place, and each in a far land on a fairer shore, 
may be welcomed by the great Poet of the universe. 


THURSTON: 


Page Forty Nine 





ws 





































COLHA SAV AS? BAOHE VSS 
‘ehiecray notlé aired oA Gu eabladenidy len eft rte 


mun aly a nowies) jw po a ont mings viod ame f tow iD) 7 let 
Jletige oils Jenonen ott mint bi bee a geviq’ bees 
ou ait e: eal wal ex lease served aotacte vraift ‘lesb duet 


eafP .orvivt ont bow taseteg ort Lwih: Sent sth Yo gi i eee: ce ~— 


ang an bre 


hOoh gotta abt a ered ghinporety aus av 
Dold obaitvatrindt howsbouvs a? th vdlwoord wols ogy 
(is bith avyeol Ww sila’ {a yeh? Deas ochasiquas wld “nor aan 
fob mie eyae'y> Sho8 need 10 Pialeromerg anh a 
buidos et! ub atotw abisvevera aolvetnalg 


shootd « (t-ag s aal (ie eqah tenq To Ihiqg i 
‘wodD Litt aged: Ieee aaftl ons ets coeds 
ates fodeteus Yo HovGb oil) lige etedsat od) Jo eqh 


(hws beteiep gietae oft abraqevoty noltajanlg blo a 

tal r Vette THO af icras tultiis bru iesdw a0ivew bd 

‘ihone beiw suv oft Rul sodw «teagaeie Yo beow off aad 
sid helotogeh 4eGdh cleesidiyys Adie iadewolg ae a 

bash oilt Te hut #e7 h—~aebreyev arg cetzeJagiq bie oat 

hf ehutgagt fon od? oxy vt silt of et od oiT 

itis To eaPiPkeotl wiht . fang cinod #dt Yo ssdlov efT 

nice 7awntioes jo hes Viielome lo sgbhbed ef® 





2 w 
fred A woud | .f + frodld leteor 
? - 44 
2104 
ry a] Or win 340 40) oO jon Ste varts pobre of ober 108 eal 


"aa tener woods vved bg iw ic tes neo oh 
of. in Aint lanvioe «cuit seed urine) foil oft) ae ewer yorlt sort 3 


penrisa 1? Sofa. eri (teri wu ray t ablaes nue eyntA ol? iia hia ae 
16. 250) L .ityev< 20 loot Viatw oibin yee inc vd son AS . 
ern ov ad Oe Wate ae te nlteestial ag moe a 
Anes! eal an bs 
naive swhel 16 esti oh stile BHitein & 2 Tt pisoy bes 


Tavenn wit mat atwel, unlldu one wegen an ening onene 
mir eollule fiat ot] lo a fake seeeoiee an yarn elie ee 


ial well sister neve Pita dreds eld tg - mo ai ye — aati 





ntly oenzih a it! ie octiie Mit Od yrnivie owe dtd tevienten Sitti Pet 
wire rn & ne btcl ww mi Hosoi costly 9 end dita mn 


severing oth te wel wary at 
MOTRIN 2) Ww ; 


Z ae ht re VT 


; | Perlin-—continued 


THs PASSING OF SUMMER ON THE 
EASTERN SHORE OF MARYLAND 


’Neath the density of late foliage, 
The shadows darkly lie; 

The sunshine falls more golden, 
And we hear the cricket’s cry; 

By and by the leaves are drifting, 
Drifting into heaps of gold; 

Heaps of gold and crimson beauty, 
And the summer’s growing old. 


Growing old but lingering still, 
Rarest days of gold and blue, 
Reflected in the laughing waters, 
Are their beauties mirrored too, 
Laughing waters warm, inviting, 
In the Indian Summer haze; 
How all beauty loves to linger, 
In this land between the bays. 


Weeks pass by. Pines are tossing, 
Along the coast the billows foam; 

And the twinkling hearthfires lighted, 
Cheerfully invites you home. 

Gunners dreaming of the wild fowl, 
And the sporting days once more, 

Cold rains sweep across the marshes, 
Summer’s gone from the Eastern Shore. 


LUCY CUTRIGHT, 
Berlin, Md. 





BOOKS 


From the prolific pen of Rev. I. Marshall Page, pastor of Buckingham Presbyterian 
Church, Berlin, Md. two delightful books have made their appearance with the past 
two years. The first is “Old Buckingham by the Sea, on the Eastern Shore of Maryland.” 
A most engaging sketch of Presbyterianism in this section. 

It also contains a great deal of subject matter relating to the early history of Wor. 
cester and adjoining counties. 

Mr. Page was a great admirer of the late Dr. L. P. Bowen, that lovable old Gentle- 
man—whom many of us had the pleasure of knowing. He quotes Dr. Bowen as saying 
that the secret of his long life, as told to one of the Professors at Johns Hopkins, was 
summed up as follows—‘I refuse to worry, | am in love with God’s great outdoors. 
I will not impose upon my stomache, I always look on the bright side of things, and J 
have boycotted all Doctors and their miserable drugs.” To which the Professor replied, 
“Dr. Bowen, you should live forever.” 

Mr. Page’s second book “The lite story of Rev. Francis Makemie,” is dedicated to 
Dr. L. P. Bowen. 

The secret of a long life is keeping busy. When Mr. Page has completed another 
book, which he ts very likely to do, he will be younger than he is today. The Shore is 
greatly indebted to him for the two excellent books he has written. Both are a valuable 
addition to the Americana of this section—and both should find a place in the library 
of every true Eastern Shoreman. 


EDITOR. 


Page Fifty 


sonnets es i st Ns Sn teen 
een hE 


a 


| 





‘oO byceiboh a ‘otraydnlt etsaetl wail ie ums ait off" dood — 









ath ed ol! ieed ow bad 






























WD @ Sear 
BOT 926 eevwsl of) «d : 
lug lo #qeed oant sais —% 
asia noWinim baa bios to eqaoe / - 
blo anime. sr4nvmue sil! baA 3 
1% gatmguil iud blo salwmdD - 7 
ould ban Blue lo qe teva 


sauwtidaont of a besetet ®  #e- 
007 ‘bwiettim zettased ‘ue! «tA 
ROUT .iew cwolew anidanad 
o2ad fie .w4aihel od) ol = 
gen ot. astet Yuuaod Na walt . 
av sad 483 tewited lun! eit) al 


zilneo) om eeald oad eang sdaeW 
tet) welt ll geqoo od) perddaA 
boifall awridsvean antituiws off DAA 
vintdd vot 28tirif! vllulsesdD 
Jeo Tite vile Yo auberieth ewened 
"out 4900 22u aniiode oft baA 
‘L101 off #2ut34e qeowe ante bioD 





wit niome’l off ser) onog ene ‘ 
WOLTI fu 
4 uitiskt 
2AQUE 
tayden'l cintipnidsull every ous) Tntheyelt 1 729A lo aoq aflilorg oht cor 
ea tr) tiv) 250A eOQKE 1 ins if ght zou) ae ow: AM aihed , 
wivtT 6 510 vt} ; ? Loe sit Alt tans LO” a teu #fT 
oie enh ty Menineiydenl ta doodle yomemey woe. 
If , Hike tytn toi tu. ead gong euiuines dale ue 
sti aitinunjtes thine WRX 
Sside) | Winwet sed) soawell Tf athoaet sey Ya avriebs tae, 2a teak aM : 
aongne an owl aCletoup all .yaivend lo oes sd) bed ae to Yaames 
ty «tia i 20do! ic croabel site she op tifer 2e.stil gual ad to roe wht 


oobiua toy ébow dh ovol et noe b ew onion I —ewollal a 
| bhe .oauh la ola Ideind oi) ne deol 10K | Siluntom ven 


pus Werehar) oft Moin o| : ne alehya seven tratty teert; ovat te bane 
So Saroret ove tlaarle 





- mae a 

Tthons bihijnes end sett ale well an yninsed 2 ot gaol sto mas 9 

at note of T pleas al ft Tor re oh Hive af ob 09 lel anes 

shdculey com diol croton cil 4d deed idetlothe tren og prea Inno 
unease sas vi bi 


frtiedlit sft) ni sably #4 bn Digaile tioef trier rp Droe vials te 


MOTICIA 


J 
le 2 fe oy @ 





Berlin 


THE HOUSE OF FRIENGLY WANDS 


Continued 


(The Cedars » 


Down in sunny Maryland where soft sea breezes blow; 
Tucked in between broad lawns of green—— 
On the famous ‘“‘Eastern Sho’.’’ 


Is a restful spot—romantic, where heauty greets the eye: 
And happiness it seems, dreaming her golden dreams— 
Blest it as she went by. 


A wistful something lingers on the flcwer laden air; 
Recalling other days of blossom bordered ways, 
When men were true and women fair! 


Serene among its setting in a grove of nobie trees, 
Is a home of simple beauty—a skrine of love and duty; 
God give us more of these! 


Shouts of childish laughter that make it sweetly human; 
A mother’s crooning song, a nandelasp that is strong; 
The graciousness of woman! 


Dignified—impressive, but beneath the arching dome, 
No place is quite so fair—-nowhere a charm so rare 
As this aristocratic home. . 





Of that something ‘round about it—nameless if you will; 
Friends who come to stay, say the house was built that way— 
Each room with love to fill. 


Enchanting and alluring, you’re cantive to its spell; 
It can boast of high estate, but what makes it truly great 
Is not for me to tell! : 


Untouched by worldy vices—it knows no foolish pride; 
It nobility it lives, and to mankind freely gives 
A welcome, true as it is wide. 


Down in sunny Maryland where gentle zephyrs blow, 
Is the house of friendly hands—the fairest of all lands; 
We know it as the CEDARS—on the ‘‘Eastern Sho’.” 


Wee Cr LEWISTON: 


Harrison’s Nurseries at Berlin occupy quite a unique place in the community. One 
of the largest industries of its kind in the world, over 400 varieties of trees, plants and 
shrubs are grown. 

On reliable authority it is stated that one may find among this amazing assortment 
of native flora a scion of the original apple tree that bloomed in Eden. However, Mr. 
Harrison desires to make it known that the purchaser must furnish his own snake. | 

Thru many transplantings, it is understood that che apples have lost nothing of their 
original flavor. 


Page Fifty One 






















. : | : 7 : 
ee ee 
‘ + bs iy oA) a : i 


s ‘ : 7 
Jwold acseetd fee Now sted, bautenslt 
- ~fosta 16 heen haond “uta baa ; 
i “ ‘ode mies | 


sto oft 29079 Yineed etal oluentor edge folie eel 
a ibe 


7a 


zenoth ashing wd gnimingaah cures 
Ud bnew ode 


ws nehol wereph af} nee eonl.eifiemes ithe A 
tae Goiebred azeseold to ebb teito ee 
“hel aaiiow Itc os otew nom 


ati) sifogGoerory 4 it waives oo geome a 
Ui0h bos svol Yo satis p—— vised afqatte lo emod 


fooolls lo wrom eo ovtg 


Gompd Cioowe dH stain ted) tore Aathlide to gone 


saotsa #! lodt Weainhnad « ston stinewnm a tedsom 
inantonw lo seeitagotoaty 


sob aiiisid ei. Ateeisd iil -viseoT tll ——belingiId 
“iat os Mths Giedwou-~itet oF Pike al voaig OM 
: ston o)aindtaiig elf} BA CC 


lw voy Tl seelonrete—f Ivods Lowe agtttegqron tadi 10 
tow Inuit tliud naw oanorl a) gue tela of emtoy ofw aboot? 
JH1 6! svol Milv moor daat 


lug 43) ol aviigges ay'yoy .snitnila bon galicadoall p 
fests {lind i estan Judw rl oteuo aaid Yo leaod aay of ; 
‘Ii#) of oof sol jon af ; 


oti? ceilon) on BORE Jl—#ooty 4hhiow ed Wedorod 
v's “whoo heGlaen oF bee sevit Ho aided 


obhiv al il en oo) wugeglew a 
¢ 
rola cilges SOliee tiada6 bingvweslt vanes wh 


abate! ui to Jauitny oll-—abaod vila) te euped 
‘oad rTalaat* oni ne 2A LSD mit) Ag n a 
















i a te 
ant)? wemeatos acl ni soelq oupin & 2tup Yqusso pile ue eine " renee 
ban dinaly 23517 Jo: dsilyisey OOF 1oy0 dow oli wi Latl ai Ge Caples th ame 


ni 







INSANE ViTiN erie vif hens Lnel VEST) Sit ¥ 
AM oat! abl ni iymeol! qudy gna loa 
dune veo ant ceismut streg astd ug Atcls sca 

riots 4p yanbosn Jeo} saved eotyqe adv feds Looheaalieu sin Hoclqeosnt eran wt 
Py 







' ieep 40 qin 


os 


sa ytht ogeS = : 


i © 
3 ee oe ; 
‘ oe, oa ee ver i 


— Rerlin 





Continued 


PALS & COMRADES 


He drifted in from old Kentuck’ 
With a face like rainy weather; 
But som’thin’ about the lazy cuss 
Made us pull together. 


I scribbled bits of trashy verse 
For printing at his shop; 

A partnership of type and talent, 
Till hard times called a stop, 


He’d always take a little drink, 

I smoked a good cigar; 

But that didn’t matter, we pegged along 
Without a jolt or jar. 


When business went to the bow wows, 
We hit the road together; 

One of poet—-two of tramp; 

Broke, and birds of a feather, 


I took the lead and acted boss, 

He trailed along behind, 

But he read my verse, which naturally, 
Revealed a splendid mind. 


We shared our trouble and our ties; 
Our shirts and shoes and hose. 
Fifty-fifty, I said to him, 

O. K. says he, fifty-fifty goes. 


He was just a plain and ornery chap, 
But square as God could make him, 
If now and then I damned his soul— 
’'Twas proof I’d never forsake him. 


Sometimes he’d hit the bottle, 
Sometimes he’d rush the can, 
But six foot two of that lanky frame, 


~“Was square-jaw honest man. 


Some day we'll hit the pike again, 
Dependin’ on the weather; 

And fifty-fifty, fast or feast, 
We’ll pull along togetner. 


I doubt if you would like him— 

His manners might offend; 

But take it from me, he’s six foot two 
Of comrade—pal and friend. 





W. CoeTHURSTON, 


Dedicated to 
CARL RATCLIFFE 


(with the Eastern Shore Times, Berlin, 
Md.) Born in old Kentucky. Long a resi- 
dent of the Shore. The roots of his family 
tree go back to the first settlers of Mary- 
land. 


He is the Editor’s friend— 
A Gentleman by birth, 
A printer by trade— 
The kindest—straightest man 
God ever made. 








OUR HERITAGE. 


Only 32 years after the discovery of this continent by Columbus in 1492 another 
Italian voyager, Verrazzano, anchored his carayal Dauphine in Sinepuxent Bay. Thus 
84 years before the chivalrous John Smith appeared at Jamestown and 96 years before 
the Mayflower landed at Plymouth, our own Eastern Shore was greeted by Europeans. 

The first American Indian mentioned in History and in an act of hospitality, wel- 
comed the Explorer. Thus too, long betore William Penn distinguished himself by his 
fairness with the Aborigines, perfect concord began and continued between the Penin- 
sular Whites and the Redmen. The hospitality ot old Eastern Shore 1s no new thing. 

It is little known that our beautiful Maryland coast was the first to be visited from 


Europe and that they with enthusiasm reco 


“a 


ager tells us that he “called the country 


gnized its attractions. In his Journal the Voy- 
Arcadia because of the beauty of the trees.” 


Thus it became the Namesake of the most charming Province of ancient Greece, sung 
by the poets as the home of Nymphs and Goddesses. 


Page Fifty Two 


DR«LEP. BOWEN: 


nee eet ett te ahs ie nite Da 


Tee 


| 
| 
| 









































Mod of) thd bod gap 

ay oilt dean hed x 

Gini “win. 194 In ows Jo) Be i 
thin Perr wo etiipe! # 


asse odlg of? tid How Ag ee 


o> 


isilicowadh ao “Ah +70 
Ist? 40 Jee? CoP bind Jiete? ba 
Totes) Saela Moy ifew em gt a4 ue 
aid oil! Minow poz tt tdgob 1 dub sin a win ' 
Hiv to Jin shia ane “ ~weals S bedou 
OW! joot xia a ttt atten) ipnay te anoles bousg ow 1s i 
busi) bus log—obeigine 10 tal O- ® trod 
YOTSAUHT 9 ow NW wood oat oF Indy aa 
71sftggo! fh nd a4 
‘q@ett lo owl feng To 


Oo? Hbilesibedl 


yertleo) a Yo «bald 


weed bolon bre hast nda doe 
4TTLIOTAR JK battod y boltaxs 


nts dshdw news Tin 










baer Ci 
crt ions siete. wd chia -bolm hibaotqe at ‘e 
at & au ir iett Lilo dl ae be. Deal j 
etna to wioor afT stu add lo Juab Teo) Tho Dae oliver 1w0 bevada : 
rtell 16 ereljioe tor od} 6) dool ae eee sod haa wade bas etida wt 
bitnl atid oF btee T ews 
veog CITH-“a of ever 
rot? mrs ij el oH , 
 ndnpedyat) a i402 "1os70 boe olaiq « deel saw a 
ti Wi yoltthid A : fet ede blues bod es vieupa Ing 
Osi apixe--eehyal dt - aAlT “foe «if heowebl T aod) bas 
i" Hv» hop “nit sfsera! roven 6'T Jona 
4m 
" 
- teeta deter saeeeee ‘ 
ADA HUQ a 
“7 
tailjong COL ¢ 2udinuio’) wl iw; “tine ely Yo Tis ih orly wits 21637 te yin > 
mn, | (th-onseuenis Ai riggeth dices 2id havodon onexseng 


waqm@at ad turnin ven wok? momedenep Aue nani? te tsbaal 
Teyigy ‘Mdetigen ae i it Laake “rom Ht barons nadboyd neon l oft 

td vel teeth boreiyniteiy tical rindi, 4reiad yuol ,ootealt . oly t 
tina] ari Seve! Gases bine, iteedtuuAds oahq nigh él diiw tsk 
wars weston 2 syorleaoncl We tA ilesipeod oT trevabsAl ole be eon W nt 
mos) bertely show tow sel caer tenay heshitel. Ltiinesd yee weghp eeveontl oberil ai 
tet oily Tamed cul ot llgivansen ey LOStogorn ineew cis dtbw orks sade bre > oma: 
“2799 oft to gmned ont jo wut alah mint ott batley” od ww ul: ws 
dnb 427 Ibieds to somven'l umeinely ot) do ydgeoene ole. sertetved 91 Zep 
“tbh d tes lq te new galt en. | 


vogeqor anil 
Noted cacy 08 ber aweteortme! te barkag¢n Mime nitol auvestevids oly ua clea 3 
r , Pn a 







> 
hes 










ASWOU a) 





| Cambridge 





re SNe, 
a £ 








Sed 





wa 






¥ 
Pee 


13 
Pa gee | es 
ie eee ee 







4; 


“4? 










ert 





‘ 
t 
‘ 

vi t 

is Ss BS: sarees GES ee 





res: 


\ 
ry 
$ 
if 
{ 
i 
; 
{ 
‘ 
tf, 
Ls 
ie 
any 
; 
\ 
\ 
cabh seeie 


THE CITY BEAUTIFUL 


Cambridge, the county seat of Dorchester Co. situated on the lovely Choptank river, 
is one of the oldest cities in America. Its inception dates back to 1684. An Act author- 
izing the building of the Courthouse on the site where Cambridge now stands, was 
passed in 1686. The original settlers were highly cultured people. .To Cambridge came 
those who sought asylum from the persecution of European tyranny. From sunny 
France they came, and from old England as well as Scotland. 

Followers of the Prince of Orange and the Duke of Marlboro lie buried in the old 
tombs of the ancient cemetery. As Gentlemen and Gentlewomen—they lived and loved. 
Warriors who were famed thruout the civilized world lived and died in the Cambridge 
of the past. 

They were gallant, chivalrous, cultured and hospitable; and they left behind them 
descendants who have kept themselves true to the illustrious traditions of their forebears. 
Viewing the Cambridge of today one can easily vision a past in which old rose gardens 
figure. Old fashioned rose gardens and old fashioned girls, courtly Gentlemen beseeching 
the favor of the next quadrille of some beruffled dame attired in hoop skirts. 








HERE’S TO ANOTHER THIRTY THREE! 


For thirty three years the Bentztown Bard’s pen has enlivened the columns of the 
Sun. Thirty three years the poet laureate of the Shore! 


Page Fifty Three 








. 
. 
i 
H 


ae . 


Sea a 


ene 












jASHTIUAT YTID THT 


vie aoe ) vlovelord? of hottie .aD rieekret) tems, qinw82 a 3 
. vi 41 ot toed eaieh coiysoni 2H .eSnamA at ebis Robie 
ew .bagte von gullies) othe ie wit no suodndo) o3 Yo : 
ot ad iol banasios Wieid ew evsttise lentyno sAT ORME 
age mat (ria.% mul Wo HOtoaeiny als ront inulyas idguoe « 
f iene ey How ze bralyn T blo cis? beer xt ns 
blo adi ni bond si! oolAY iu sdet? Se bare agen) to svnn off lo Hew a. 
SOREN UT HOA ESI— soe moO bale Teed) 24, onsioonss Iasies se te 
sgbndei > srl: in Hoi fay Levi tol revive haste od) svourwls bora} naw other 
mais Diet gol yas bow jaldeiteot how dvaniiys .uelevide dn a8 
awe) iad) tg snoitther) cvonteptli git ap oust e9vleersd) sqoch eyed 
coainkg owt blo duinvs ai weqes held jiitt> nae ono yebos do oghivdans ork 
guiibin x) a remagiues) /inuos ¢highenotiia fla bos aoabeg seanbos 


’ Dude | vee nr Leaines oan’ flied senoe io alnkeap 1x3 ait 


Raat Soy Meese : ork: wal 4 
ee ae waa = te 8 : —2 ta . = 
a “* _ 


au 


en, 














eis TAM? MITOUA OT cama 


oi to “itrulos wt bonavilas =. n> 3 eta cvuernol sdf x 
aT Yo srecrnigsd neq 





Continued 


Cambridge 


ON THI CHOPTANK— 


White sails and chugging steamers 
That ply the peaceful bay, 

With twinkling lights of red and green 
To mark the right of way. 


Friendly trees that shade the streets— 
Immaculately clean; 

And flowers that twine their tendrils ’round 
Broad lawns and green. 


The rhythmic hui of cars enroute 
To north and south and west; 
The honest workman homeward bound 
With merry quip and jest. 


The spires of Churches gleaming 
Against a sunlit sky; 

The friendly spirit and ready smile 
For the stranger passing by. 


The laugh of happy children 
Tripping home from school, 

Where “rule of three’ is taught by love; 
Truly a golden rule. 


White waves that break in whiter foam 
Upon a sandy shore, 

And sturdy seamen unafraid 
Bending lightly to the oar. 


But finer still than all of these, 

Where the whitecap breaks and foams, 
More beautiful than sea or sky— 

Are the homes, the happy homes. 


Homes that crown the quiet streets 
_ Where little children play, 
And strong men own their treasures there 
When comes the close of day. 


Cambridge, bright city by the sea! 
Where every home is a castle strong, 
And the murmur of the rolling deep 
Is sweet as an old-time song. 


W.. Ce THURSTON, 





Taking into consideration the ancestor worship that prevails in certain sections, one 
is moved to ask what would happen if some of our ancestors could come back and meet 
their descendants? 


Page Fifty Four 








‘ sah? han vitea ogee - 
" aseta sie Ted yes 


a. dt 
ae ~~ 
zew WO Stal agitate ig = 
—#ivevtia oft Obgie taill eset ——- 5 Bie 
ly ¥ 






































paasty “toroliuece 
birwou’ sfithaed itor ould) tad) aewwok bak 
490g has enwal heal 


enone 200 Jo mud onilteds att” 
ise fire toc bas Atton of r 

Logo? bi woued nutdiow eed ef? ire 
eet bas qhip yriem At > 4 


unify astorvd? lo astiqa ofT 
(tae silane & leche 

silme uboes bas Jitics vibneltiedT 
7TH gaieag THRAOU att trOF 


avvitids «ahad to dave! odT 
ott GT) amon sang? 

yrol vd sade st “Seas Yo efor” gredW 
: iit asbleg &@ clurT 


moo) isitde of deo Jedi sovew oid 
woe chaite a aod 

bfaTting monteor “ira bed 
“ee sf ol vivdull aafinedt 


Sea) do Ha andi its wok Jot 

mice! bite say aaiatide of) aretyt 
—‘tie 1 Gee curds Won srolf : 
ol ‘afrad wild como ef) até : 


12971 'vipe od) nwer tad! adeno 
velqa webs afi woth 
jnanot! Weal Awe Gem osHote BRA 
ob To eeoly ait nenoo doll'W 
‘roy of) ud ute ddelcd «9fitdene 
uiuwe uly £ et Amon gers sed W 
web aailioa off 70 wate ad) OA é 
athe oortt-Blo cai Toows of | ihe 


A0OTZADHT .O .W 





OHO PISA FNS ne, chevomy sadly qilengus (F82908 ah 
is3it) bas 2ood emo. Dlue? aolane 10 To pitiee Th moqqud Whew 


ts 





Cam bridge ——Continued 


A BAYSIDE IDYLL 
By “Gath” 


Basking on the Choptank picasant Cambridge lies 

In the humid atmosphere under fluttered Skies, 

And the oaks and the willows their protecticn fling 
Round the court house cluster and the public spring. 


There the streets are cleanly, and they meet oblique, 
Forced upon each other by the villuge creek. 
Winding round the ancieut lawns, till the site appears 
Like a moated fortress crum»iing down with years, 


Round the town the oysters grow within the coves, 
And the fertile corn fields bearing yellow lIcaves; 
And the wild ducks flying o’erv tne parish spire 
Fall into the graveyard when the feowlers fire. 


There the old armorial stones dweliers seldom read; 
There the ivy clambers like the rankest weed 

There sometimes the Cambridze lawyers scale the wall 
To the grave of Helen loveliest of all. 


Even here the fairest of the little band 
Strangers call the fairest girls in Maryland, 
Like the peach her color ere its dyes are fast, 
And her form as slender as the virgin mast. 


Like a vessel gliding with a net in tow, 

Up the street of evening Helen seemed to flow, 
Leaving light behind her and a nameless spell 
Murmured in the young men like an ocean shell. 


Made too early conscious of her power to charm, 
Still unconscious ever love of men could harm, 
Voices whispered to her: ‘‘Beauty rare as thine 
Princes in the city never drank in wine.” 


“Hide it not in Cambridge.’”’ Cross the Bay and see 
How a world delighted hastes to honor thee, 

Seek the fortune teller and thy fortune hear; 
There is empire yonder; there is thy career.” 


Oh, the sad ambition and the speedy dart! 

He, the fortune reader, read poor Helen’s heart; 
And a face created for a hearthstone’s light— 
Fishers tell iis ruin as they scud by night. 


Whisper, whisper, whisper! leaf and wave and grass; 
Look not sidewise, maiden as you pass, 

If you hear a restless spirit as you pray, 

’'Tis the voice that tempted Helen o’er the bay. 


GEORGE ALFRED TOWNSEND. 





If the passing years pay tribute 
To the good deeds you have done, 
The laurel wreath of victory 

Will be yours at set of sun. 


Page Fifty 


Five 





cial lca 
m 


GATe4L WOT USA FOROS 


a ; hae 


see 


ae ian ay 


sal! Sho) ere ta neneig santqad? 4 
iba 













































sie" Dotson yebav «sedqeomis than 
amit mottesogy tads wircitive ody Dig aM 
ang viding’ oi) bi setkei4 sepod phn wins 


UNICO touut tos Dag elpesis eve ninothe odd 
WHS TD Stuliiy eit ai salto dean toga 


cay >i be ort? [fbs iwi) sheng 40! firtwor aa F 
ive eWay woe iis) eset iuisoa & 






aihilw Wer «ic ett owe edt hapgeR 
WOla® Suivand fof stes aftita? off baAé : 

febiagstt sa'y gute® adonh filtw a haa 7 
i tiglwot wil aodw biwyerad® of? opal ee 


mo1 (cablon =iaifowp esate lalrottiria ble af vedtT 
4 WORT OMS SHI epntonele qvt sd) seme 

TOY wu aot! eine) \' eomitemos watt 

lit ly gaeviinvol ao i lc orava off oF 


120 at) YO Jee wy f? saa nevil 

i of Abia foonel off lea wroaneil 

tis i doweq offi adi 

on ithksly add olisls 46 rye! 14 Dod 


7U3 wi Jon w& ative nil@ loasev 2 sth 
hoantven ietoll saia in seodia ody qgU 
wep om UNA aod rider! fei! portvead 
ma abel iti Vom Dbesvenwif 
’ fi rey : ras oe? obaM 


/e “4v0alennjng ili 
Net paxiAw at ny 
ivan YM of? al spond 8 


-) al toa 3) abiii™ 
7 THe f lob blow s woll 
nite) HY tts thei noniot ed? dasa 
nz Trae ivtiday Tit ti«s ei eveniT 


Mel {Oot 1 bas cothine bea sit? BO 
eit TOME Toad .hao4 onyaead af oH 
2"ado mul) 10) my) oom) ¢ baa 

tu «" Die ye) 2n alos ot] Hod evedeke 


iW ONE Mend Siogeid reqelilw »ssqaldW 
Haag 04 ee nobtom .oxtvebta joa dent 
CNG MOL Fe Ss Avoliony 9 ined gee 
1) 4e"y meine: fie ijnies In79 eotey ads aT’ 











_— . af 
td aagt ‘ . q ee 
Audi Ysa} Make yrtizeny ods Al + ipa 
one yall gov este hoon ody oT 
hited Lt 
Matas docrppory basved aA 






Ae lo Reetwe, al WW 





Cam bridge-— Continued 





= Oe ee se eS 


A : t. o's te ev 
ae na : Pea Ae — Ww? ox Wat ny 
ree ay Pion ae i es : 





In the Parish of Dorchester is old “Trinity Church,” which is described in the 
following part of this chapter. 


THE OLD CHURCH 


In a picturesque spot on the Little Choptank River and on the narrow creek to 
which it has given its name, stands old Trinity, known until the middle of the nineteenth 
century as “The Church in Dorchester Parish,” and familiarly known to the present 
generation as “The Old Church.” 

So long ago was this ancient little edifice built that all record of its date has been 
Jost, the most diligent and careful search having so far failed to throw any light on the 
subject. 

In the year 1690 there were already in existence in the colony of Maryland thirty 
parish churches and many “Chapels of Ease.” 

We find from the colonial records that the Old Church was situated at “Dorchester 
Town,” as the inhabitants of this Parish were instructed to worship at Dorchester Town, 
upon the division of the county, and the inhabitants. of Great Choptank Parish to worship 
in Cambridge, where the use of the Court House was given for divine service, until such 
time as it should be convenient for them to buiid their church, which they did not do 
until 1696 or later, as in that year Mr. Philip Pitt and other vestrymen petitioned the 
Assembly for the privilege of building a church, which was granted them. 

Tradition says that this and other early churches were built of bricks brought from 
England, but a close searching of the records fails to bring to light any verification of 
this oft-told tale. 

There is every reason to believe that the bricks were made by the English brick- 

makers, who were brought into the colony and who were contracting for bricks as early 
as 1649, in which year one Cornelius Can: ad: iy made an agreement to Gneilee and deliver to 
Mr. Thomas Cornwallis twenty-eight thousand bricks within two years. 

An old red velvet cushion, which bears the stemp of royal quality, is said to have 
been sent over by Queen Anne for a prayer cushion in this early church. Indeed, tradi- 
tion goes so far as to claim that the good queen knelt on it at her coronation. It is 
certainly the exact shape and size of those used on such occasions. 

There still remains one large silver communion cup, inscribed “To the Church in 
Dorchester Parish,” which bears the English Hall marks of long ago. 


Fage Fifty Six ; 


a ae li tN et i aT 


tt 


. 





@ duno word of ao bax wwiSl dane od) olint dt saw soqge a & 

















ston lnoeoh eo: onedly vinnud> it oi blo 2 voters et] Yo deine ods a 
raryars zl to seq 


HOASIHD G10 FHT 


inoosonn ot) to sibbne sft long nena -fnnrl blo ebante .ornan end i 
i! ; 2. 2 aente EPS, * peal" a q dst dior af 
ise ; Noawurk vie? Ore lee ssteslaz ai t en 


“lol BIO oT” a6 aot 
ood 4 Mio ours pert siped swith sti! insane etd enw oye yool 08 
inur eue veoh os bollel vel or gnived dates: lates bas thegilih mom only ie 
grads heel TL it sane. nm? ght: sow sedi ODE » oh al 
“sen Yo elocyuctf>" yriniry tarts pos ws 4 


73 ‘ c lve ait) GND ei tetl! alte: fytrakvs ote cng bait 
" } oly IOs i iy ysawiut ae ene! sik te eirtnyitinchens atl a 
tithe oo) dere) dint Vico?) Meetostvelediae Sap tne vite ot do doveib odd an 
lowe liv rer i el (oy eo S200 R aug) snp tomey alt onsbhw. oie 
Ob Jan | ; ryt wh ni) diel at ait 70) Jodrarniis * ut 
offs boris og Mart eite ruite tie at nit BIL tH iat mt ms. Ags 

vat 


0 heaiiesy cre ety (httende & brilsbiod tos 
mov vty hood edad qo tiind naw envi vibe wile tient’ : 
jlo ROME Yin al oy wn wl or ali: a) thrueo ott to it al pele ite 
ha bossa ai 
“Asin eign st yd ober aroha eh deed oyailod a nore yisve @ oe 
(hes <a edind 10) ynitowtinas sie Geer Lane ynblos od) ean igeead odw g 2 
OF Isvilsb Hn hh oh Ness fits obnittuynbune:) anew wae ai Wt 
ewisy vied rthbies raund foxpimerenyty ify yaa pr tbo 

S7td oF Line +i veri! up jovi Ta cereste ia, eaoel thidw onan rato bon blo a 
‘they boobnl obtods hey i ae weulay, wageny & vol wank aod 
“31 (hucienoros iodo te on od Had ry. Vinx wht Jel? csnily ot * 

piven (side Hi sew 'S Fo nee iptie 
a fowdD odd OT bodiment que avlenwot sale ogre ony 

oye gaol io edroce Mebt retlyast ors 
















Ca m br ide C-——--Continued 


The other pieces of the service have disappeared. There 
church records of the presentation of the communion service, 
also was presented by Queen Anne, the Hali marks indicate a 


d 


s ne mention made in the 


and while tradition says it 
period later than her reign. 
Standing like a sentinel ameng the graves of revolutionary heroes, is a beautiful 
Oo 2 4 SNE o | 2 $ ? ? 
monument. Deep cut in its shining side is the following inscription-—- 


“Erected to Dr. Thomas King Carroll by the people who held in loving 
remembrance his fidelity to duty, his untiring devotion to his patients, and 
his heroic self sacrifice in a time of pestilence. “I was sick and ye visited me.” 


Born at Kingston Hall, Somerset County, Md. 


August 31st, 1821. 


Died at his home—Walnut Landing, Dorchester Co., Md. 


January 9h, 1900. 


OLD TRINIVY 


Oh, hallowed spot beside this quict stream, 


Where ’neath thy ancient shade I come to dream 
Of bygone days when these, thy children sought 
The peace, that only Thou, Oh God, hast taught. 


Beneath these weathered stones wnere now they lie, 
Are souls whose glorious deeds will never die, 

For Thou, oh God, gave unto them the light 

That never dims, nor let them falter from Thy sight, 


Within the walls of this, Thy ancient shrine— 
Hushed by Thy sacred presence, Oh Lord, divine, 
They found like us that peace and sweet tranquility-— 


Thy gift, oh God, to those of true humility. 


F. ARTHUR LASKOWSKI, 





TOAST TO AN OLD HOUSE 


Here’s to old houses 
Patient and wise 
Under the guarding 
.Pitying skies, 

Under the blessing 
Of sunshine or rain, 
Hlere’s to old houses 
Who wait life again. 





My faith sustains— 


Cambridge, Md. 


What e’er befalls I know ’tis best; 
I do my part—God does the rest; 


Each day the burden’s lighter. 


Page Fifty Seven 























x1 ai cbem neeam da 2) aif jhe Bo 
7 evne rronibast alzpley bog yi Te i i ee 

ayia asl erty vem! boar - ategtise 4 
lntifynsed | angiod Neen iow 






Tal wi 
niwo! t Bid ody separ, why, vd . 
bas a (one aif ut wonerrob aid Pale “i 


in Loiern ov Bim oot. aan f . 


. 5M .vayod Meohed Nel nonwyaiZl 1s me! \ 
ATBE tel enyuad f 


DM 0D someett ‘ern iuale?/ —senod tit as bald 


Maynal ri) 


LCMVINT 10 


areette tol sld4 otitaed tow bevroltad AO ~ 
mostD o) vioo | ahede joshua dd done" eid W 


1uguos pethhiiter eds —_ iteiw evob sacawd YO 
esau end DOD AO omT elie seat .s780q oT 


1.7D On OetwW anfole betedinew seal) diaegelt 
ob wept Ibe shed epolely ones ser aoe m4 
9) 31 ined) Ginn «vay bod do wont és 
jdgie “al tov) tote) nfl? rol con nmi teven Set 


— nts iitsiouwe “dt 2 to elew ode aw 

irth bral Wi ,ooteevta hetoss «dP ud bodigh 
Cian) Lowe Dan sate sed? eo stil bowel yea 
Hiiuaud 5a) 30 seadi ot od to Alia edt 


lAAWOABAL SUUATHA. 4 ia. 
nie .aabtulaaD 


———<eeme 





4ASOH ONO 44, OF TekOT 







shanti! blo —) «wah » 2q 
aulfeaiai te bert ae -~ 
aot Berei" Tk 
; wer * by ata + ae 
‘ings OME Yikes. te 
‘- —— tierra | 
- 264 ra’ 


imod air ond Ta 
Het ath asth tne 
rad eohoud 


ey ee Oe ool 


Cambridge 


CAMBRIDGE HAS THE SPIRIT 


Cambridge has the spirit 
Of the Maryland way of life— 
Contented and with valor 
To confront the daily strife: 
For there beside her river 
With the singing beauty born 
She wears the smile of patience 
And she lears the voice of morn. 


All around her lie the harvests, 
And the meadows, and the peace 
Of the lovely Dorset country 
Where the flocks and herds increase: 
Cambridge has the spirit 
Of the Maryland way of love— 
And her waters shine in glory 
As the stars shine down above. 


Her avenues of homesteads, 
Where the trees are so divine; 
Her touch of Maryland beauty 
And her taste of morning wine: 
Cambridge has the spirit 
Of an old town born anew 
To the progress of the moment 
And the principles so true. 


ala 18h 





Continued 


“HERRING TIME” 


Herring time is here 

And ’pon the placid Chesapeake, 
Nets are dipt—then pulled to trap 
Each wary silver streak, 

Later comes a Kingly feast, 

With corn cakes on the side, 

But not till after each vendeur 
His priceless ware has cried. 


“Herrin’ man’s about, 
Herrin’ n’ no trout; 
Herrin’ man’s around, 
All the way 

From Herrin’ town.’’ 


EDWARD SNEAD, 


Cambridge, Md. 





THE EASTERN SHORE 


Oh, land o’ mine, that lies ’tween bay and sea, 

That land of smiling fields and flower decked lea, 
With sparkling creeks and beauteous sun-kissed bays, 
Oh, land o’ mine, that home of boyhood days! 


Oh, land o’ mine, where first I learned to toil, 
Before, I plunged in life’s stern, ruthless whirl, 
You taught me strength to hold head high in life, 
But, land o’ mine, how bitter’s been the strife. 


But, land o’ mine, when work of life is done, 

And soon IJ] leave behind that which I’ve won, 

There’s one one more boon I’ll ask—-and then no more, 

Oh, land o’ mine, ’tis you to see, my home—-The Eastern Shore! 


F, ARTHUR LASKOWSKI, 
Cambridge, Md. 





All sorts of things happen on the Sho’. Unexpected things, nice things, glad things, 
the most surprising things; and nobody grows old or goes hungry unless he wants to. 





The Charm of the Eastern Shore cannot be put on paper; it is too elusive, too subtly 
sweet to be caught between the pages of a book. 


Page Fifty Eight 





bE : aabin Inte 


ean help 2gnid) sin apatils atssyantd “eile wilt uo met a 


% i ie J ’ 








































Ca ae ere 


“na? ovis 


ated a @ 

deoqreod) hls 
qurtt a) fallin @ini-— Iq’ 
Mewts arelio Vinw. 
e Jeol iat « aaa: 
oe shiz at) no sawh? gen) 

ipvbney dono tele Ty Jee a relat teal 

-boito ead seenw aeal 1007 Th : 
, : ae sixovtad off af 
dnodn g\anet aire osasq ay bine 


‘WoW ou ‘a ‘Hine VTIve> Ieetat 
nyo “wir ‘aba : serena! abt baw at 
iitiaa oif) 






tay nal ii 


‘awol ‘altel wom “vet lo Van healer 
ce oly at eoide poor thee 
CAS“S GOTAWAaR etods awob oalda erate eA 


ehaotasmod Yo mune 9 
.ealvib of s1q @s9m3 
Tnaed a Yo 1 0H 
onthe ina o a DMM 
‘figs ait gad gubtsdatad 
eon mod uwol ble as 10 
tuentomt of! lo seernotg ef! 
uu) On solginniig of} Bak 
A A-— 





MHOHe ZAWTaAM Ae 


aot Dae ‘tad gee? eof ind) <nim “o Haat AO 

9) ()Siiseh ‘poh pian ehlel cotter ta bea! tedT 

d peemtd+ oe eles fic <to0nm guilitoe rw 4 
'2tah boedted ty aited led) aim “o beet AO 


lol o) fantned 1 tech wiedw soles baal Oo 

thy ldiud mieit.'oUl ai bapanly 1 oetell 
tii a) doht Geet Mad ol dvenwrts om Tityead 

ithe ob tout) ayer. worl ote ‘eo fees, 


moh 4-4 de drew nite that ‘a beret 
“ow 99) weiter gud hulls eves itl A : 
TOO aa han— Mee ry ood svont’ ah oa 2 
‘eTtods aie a T—omad ane foun os sai aly att 






LtevVioneAd A ‘TITAS ma! 
HM .Sablrdtmad 





OD atin IF Palas eranod 20ny vor blarewerry whedon Bite 


“idize 001 ovizuls-oot 21 a0 1ipey! AO sum Se rota sul mt 
doe 2:40 shee 's 





Cecilton 


The absence of Cecilton subject matter is deeply regretted. Being old and lame, 
it was well nigh impossible for us to visit the towh in person. Of course, barring the 
lack of transportation facilities, walking was good, but these Eastern Shore roads are so 
long. Borrowing a few stamps, we wrote to this one and the other one, begging piteously 
for something about Cecilton. Perhaps they wil! reply in the early spring, we haven’t 
heard from them yet. In many places civic a is been run down and killed by an 
automobile; which may not be true of Cecilton. We hope for the best. 

However, there are several items to the credit a) that picturesque section which will 
serve for an example to the other counties. First, we have in our possession a highly 
prized volume—The Poets and Poetry of Cecil County, edited by George Johnston, and 
published at Elkton in 1887. We know of no other county on the Shore that has a similar 
volume. The book also contains a brief biographical sketch of Folger McKinsey—the 
Bentztown Bard, but we wouldn’t dare print it for fear of revealing his age. We might 
say that he was born in Elkton, and his first published poem was “Satana Victo”, written 
in blank verse. The book is filled with good poems—many of them are nationally known 
and have been reprinted from time to time. No, we will not lend it to anybody, not 
even to the Pope. It is a part of our Americana—one of the treasured volumes of a 
small library, which constitutes our sole wealth. It has survived the usage of fifty years; 
any assurance that the Eastern Shore In Song & Story would live that long, would com- 
fort our declining years. 

Maybe some time, when the tide’s at the flood, when the wind’s in the east, and all’s 
right with the world, we'll build another book—All about Cecilton and Cecil county, and 
fill it with prose and poetry from the pens of her talented sons and daughters. 

There is also a history of Cecil county, but that volume is not in our collection. 
Having so little material on the subject, makes us rather curious to know more about 
Cecil and the good people who write such good poetry. The next time we build a book 
- folks, we'll come to Cecil first, and after the rivers and trees, the old homes, and the old 
traditions have been properly treated, what’s left over in the way of space will be devoted 
to the rest of the Shore. 





DOWN TRROUGH CECIL 


It looked like Sunday morning as I came 
elong today 

Through lovely Cecil county into Kent- 
land’s fields of May— 

The sun so brightly shining and the hills 
and meadows fair 

In the kiss of whispering beauty in the 
balsam-laden air. 


Below the old Elk river, after Elkton came 
the spell 

Of hylas in the marshes—they had lots of 
news to tell. 

How the soggy fields are dying for the 
plowmen who await! 

The musie of the tractor swinging Mi uae 
the barnyard gate. 


So I waved to wood 


Every moment some fresh wakening of the 
life of field and glade 

Seemed apparent as I traveled, and my 
heart was unafraid. 

Oh, it sang, and in the singing came such 
echoes one can meet 

In the memorized lanes of beauty o’er the 
leagues of winter wheat. 


All the little towns seemed waiting for 
some magic to come back 

With the spring’s abundant promise down 
the old familiar track; 

Chesapeake beside the water of the old 
canal, and then 

The Cecilton that gave us memory’s greet- 
ing once again. 


and water, waved 


to every lovely stream, 
Bohemia and the Sassafras——and then the 


Chester’s dream: 


The Chester by the 


Chestertown that 


old wharves of the 


lies 


’'Neath the spell of Kentland beauty and 
the kiss of springtime skies. 


—B. B. 


Page Fifty Nine 


. “AS a at 





































ome bas blo gts § bags 4 
oth note ies 0 eters rd 
oe me ebro: silt mamed venill suatt . fi 
genostiq yrigesd ooo wedi odd dae ony oe ge righ o mod y 
Mrovad sv .yainge yl. vet ie eiqpy f eqerrsl  .noae toda gridismnoe 
ag yd bollid bok aah ru, artiod eed bing, at eonlq yen n iocaen 
jiexl oft ot squd aw ‘side lo ou od Jam Your ms ' 
Me on “ nalts Th ae apn ay tanh Qo fibres ond ms eerai loves 3 " i ra0s we H 
¥ingin 2 coneeSaor-auo fy sigl ove geri’. 27 UO wie ais or on 
bog ,commdel sajp08) 9 Labo vine ied to vite bee etl; J rapt rt besh 
nuiovie c enc suds mol? ol! oa Qneros Tore on to wend (A & w fase! varia ue 
ohs——rram AW \yagle'd Yo hoodle instdlqaagaid fond 6 eigndiar culty wo OWE ortvah 
tiniin 3/7 990 28 wilin ee Yo wel 2et 1 Seiq onch aio oie tad “oh toh ae 
mving “oil een” ex vase Bareildog tet eat bas ordi ob Sy - 
mood giinneiian wie dedi To yout ~ivoy booy diw bolld 21 dood adi o 137 dnl 
Mut VORA YIIR OF Ji bin tan lire sere av. TD a) vers ened bagerriqgsy ed 
to minnloy bomen od: io vao-—soe tA wo To neq 6 etal sepia oe 
Heo viin to adeen alt bavivrue zen al Miles sloc 140 contac ak ov 
noo biyow .paol jadt 2vil blavow rare A sued i] made mtrersd ody york new ¥ 
; amy enallok 
"He bee Jer fh ek wy dt fekw Jboofl adi de 2 thu oh aonb oon Se. 


vas ——s 
acetal a 
é.. 






ay 


bie .yinues fio bine moilive) toad Uf, —aioed terion Shed Tse bhow-ode al 
beh Ls be] hy law code Desisint aad to ti aI oily rion q1s0q bnk aa | isn al 
Murowiion 1 tise 2t SmmuUley yal hy eMinies fo) to voted « oale 2 xodT | 
julia soi word as vivo wom ge eodniee soul? wl: ap lnivssncet oltnl os nivel 
lite) c@ hl sw on Sit at! CV] bow four sino odn whoo Leag ads bag Itz 
iQ : in wormrtod lilo oft .2zow Eee pigs ods wits baw wernt losD of somes Iow 
yo iw » to Yew olf at toverital Wel ‘uetton (hago moad svad enepibe 
wnedé ail] eo rn onl 
9 16 waloetaw des ieatront Wave 1139 HDVIONAT ZWO0Od 
ijnte toa ; i Jo of 
rr f yn b-eviend. 2: Sal ry its hoes C8869 I en yaiadtom whan agi! iil 
higribaidtery i ere totes gros atrots : 
dove 16> “tiaote of) nl bes cde nO nal old vines Tine? Yiewet see 
Droop )Tt ini Titi) - ae (A 10 abot ebant 
16) in ys : 5 ee ul minog & ij nl atte ad has 9a! fils thane oa gue _ 
eode w4inhy 7 ad tbs at | : , ual swohaew ; 
oil] ai ¢sueod anitogetde Ye : 
te 
103 aniiiuw bomase xnwol oil aif GEA 


MT c Stoo of wae ithe ss sna 078124 1atte* are aif tage ons 









ivfoh s{iagq Inehanidal, surtiqe shy An ee ge ey 
48! Ydittigsa ble od Ip atol bed vodt —eadeinin ‘odd 
bio oft to stew odd ahindil ol MOD Hes ‘sah wo 
li94) fea Tiga edi 1) anith ova ehlod —— 
“atm es 140rorm eu oyna Saill poi) ant 'tiewe one 
Ath tage ani adi Muxorits airineiwe vi , 4 ' 
vay sew Gon ; oy hovaw 7 of 
nae? i Yaaws a9 
ai) asf) bes-~—eavin 1 base stale 
a : 
out Yo sev onw: ihe 4d wleod) 
aiptf erential’) neRy, otame- 


fue Vinned paaly ir , : 
291k8 oailtat 
31 a 


a, = oe ‘ =, oe a 


Chestertown 






1 


3 ae ‘pee aR = * 


ibs Neos. 


tae 


- e 


nape & Be cats et SPOS ur wi a a tei 


Old Custom House 


Tread softly, stranger, lest you wake these heroes of a far gone past, who were of 
Chestertown. They knew her and were a part of her in days of “taxation without 
representation,” in the days when the British Goliath sought to deprive the Colonial David 
of his rights. Battleships were built here with which naval victories of importance were 
won. Customs were levied here by the British government, in direct contravention of 
the rights of the American Free Man. 


The custom house built in 1694, still stands, along with many of its architectural’ 


contemporaries. The old buildings reminiscent of the past are carefully preserved. The 
Chester river 1s probably Bnecol, the world’s: most ‘beautiful waterways. Chestertown 
rests like a jewel on its verdant banks. Stately old oaks shade the quiet streets and lend 
dignity to an almost perfect setting. Here was located one of the first free schools in 
American Colonies, and from the one in Kent county sprang Washington College— 
established in 1782. 

Chestertown was a place of importance long before it-was laid out in 1706. When 
the Custom House was built the site of the present town was made a port of entry for 
Kent county. In 1695 it was decided to. remove the Kent county Courthouse from New 
Yarmouth, where it had been built in 1679, to a site on the Chester river where Chester- 
town now stands. In 1706, the town, then called New Town, was laid out and covered 
a grant of land known as Stepney, that had been left to the Wilmer family by Miss 
Tilghman who died in 1688. 

In 1774, like the people of Boston, the inhabitants of New Town staged a Tea Party, 
when they boarded a boat at anchor in the harbor and threw all the tea overboard as a 
protest against high taxes. In 1780 the charter of New Town was revised and the com- 
munity given the name of Chestertown. 

Prominent among its old buildings are the Palmer house—the oldest house in town, 
the home of W. W. Hubbard, built in 762. and the Kent News building, erected in 1827, 

Chestertown was originally designed to be the “Baltimore,” of the colonies—the 
chief port of entry of the realm of the Calverts, 


Page Sixty 


scan iL AACR AN RNA aR Ant it Slane ic amt ANNAN nt hai ene 
enti cate ts i nlal nara ideabeie YS 
enter ts lanai ane 


ge a OT Ae 





a 
ie oA 


: 
ae 4) 2 


S 
iar Ts 
‘ode . 


~¢ 


m ‘ 





Hola 









tied 


‘<i 11% 


hat 


=... es eS 2 +. _ Ses 
sonlt mower bio a 


> dtoicdie si ont thud omw acidestoall wages 


Y loti tort over oh OT) el 26a vee ae 


: 
7: to antes ont HET) ah eee dae 
; 5 .awWena wih: ") 40 ane ad) ag oie 


nlite sve-eondl did he ahve fe ; 


oft “4 of Lrearaggler nb Teenage Ww ae a 


1 -sy4cdr adv 1 wo! .rgeene lfloe ben 
) irr? ti; . tJ 4 \ af word ear fer 
Hur? dein’ iidw evel) odo ni “ynolntiases 


o> 























+. 
y devitl ot yd sort boiwsl gw emote) tae 
jf YF omnes 4dt Wo ode om 

ine ect of ied seoel pio 


rae y(tt oid tla ofl baal 


» Vid aa | al mvh 


") facet qealeray et a nw lowest 2 off 
sf } - ; ? mi & “aT ifn ar al 
i mol bné 2otnelsD me 


RTT mi teodbelld 

af ry » snl a “” ae 

mo gh io gw oh thaid sew qo 
(not leliasl ee ge ON al see 

vie gd Moe ey Se AS i bed i oote Moone a 
wi Dad sods . fone ye ar ool baal Wo store 
ame ai bah’ orm rocilyl 

jiniided 43 novel 4a if ong : wiht sil, aot ae 
heal: oi sorkage Mf rer) & by sbsrciet ¢odts 




















ly bags Sal A gal close“ VW te 













anwleD oft jo mips Fie to “ake 







Chestertown 


PARADISE 


When the first true picture of Eden 
Was painted in panel of gold, 
The tale of its wondrous conception 
Remained thru the ages untold. 


E’en He who had fashioned the garden— 
Who did its perfection direct, 

Left never the slightest suggestion 
Where one would its presence suspect. 


The picture in all its rare beauty 

Was finished with consummate skill; 
Awakened the laudable comment 

Of laymen and critic until 


’T was a theme indelibly written 
On tablets, and graven on stone, 
As a treasure released to the future 
With name of the artist unknown. 


For ages man’s futile endeavor 
Has remained unceasingly keen 
To discover the model as pictured, 
But none have located the scene. 


Which the Master with infinite wisdom 
Had chosen for actual worth, 

As the promising, bounteous HEden— 
Most salubrious part of the earth. 


Now, I’ve thought to unravel this mystery 
By noting the similitude 
Of the painting to scenes which acquaint- 
ance 
Has led me at iast to conclude. 


That grandfather Adam ,meandered 
The paths I have frequently trod; 
Knew the same Lordly gift of fruition 
I’ve known from the flora and sod. 


The hills everlasting still flourish 

With flowers—with fruitage——with vine, 
And I’m glad father Adam hag left me 

A part of this Eden as mine. — 








Continued 


lis grandeur, its bountiful acres 
Repiete with the need of mankind, 

ts the model, indeed, for the picture 
Of course, by the Master designed. 


So this wonderful picture of Eden 
Was painted, uo doubt, as Ive said, 
From the scenes with which I’m familiar— 
From scenes which uever misled, 


The judgement of alien or native— 
They all with ecstatic consent, 
Are sure that the Garden of Eden 
VW73s really the county of Kent. 
FRANK ROUTH, 
Galena, Md. 


LITTLE MARYLAND ROSE 


Oh, my litile honey, she’s a-playin’ all the 
mornin’ 
Down where the trumpet-creeper grows, 
Scarcely takin’ heed of her old Mammy’s 
warnin’, 
Dancin’ on her bare little toes. 
Racin’ in to dinner—such a lovin’ little 
sinner, 
When the noon-day saw mill whistle 
blows, 
Teilin’ where the fairies hid, chirpin’ like 
a katy-did, 
Mammy’s little Maryland rose. 


Ches’peake country’s in the gloamin’, 
fishin’ boats are homin’ 
And the sun is sinkin’ ‘cross the bay; 
Shadows fallin’ kinda creepy, bed-time 
comes, she’s sleepy, 
After such a busy, happy day; 
Comes a-snugglin’ to her Mammy, tired 
little Jiaambie, 
“Mammy, please 
clo’es,”’ 
Soon she is a-dreamin’, all the time she 
is a seemin’, 
Just the sweetest thing that Maryland 
grows. 


unbutton Baby’s 


NELL ©. WESTCOTT: 





The native Eastern Shoreman is a great booster—especially of the Eastern Shore. 
If his tendency to boost is a weakness nobody holds it against him. That every knock 
is a boost is the oldest lie in creation. The way to boost is to boost, and that is all there 


is to it. 


Page Sixty One 

































estes iiVavead ett iA 

baidnanm Ww leew ad) dhiw 

etgiety oft W9 stoebuel fopesiit er a 
-boiuiategb uahpere teal? Wl RTOS 


aebA Yo aehivene Wiliwnaow ots od 
(bteae ov) an J4n0h on be eee oa 
tilimel mt dohiw dtow epoese oH 
-loleitn Yoveu @sidw eeueek (eg 





—o7lian 20 Helle lo thoneabohs ioeqese eon 
eT etary geidetnd abt (le re 
aeba-Yy aolekh vdeGadl ele ak “Junad oany ail 
-nazl 3o. 2m a ‘tas aeey thine Teneo 
NTUA HWHAHT NIMTCS OFC 
a 6M aasied 
. oi axes aatthww vidilebut 
. 4 5 7 ry iv _" , < 
O87 GZAATHEY MATT miiedes aah ave t 
“ ; ets) anf! oF boaselen: iran) 
: if a Ht 8 €& oie , You; bath ‘ neal 
aoe . ner : ae #0 Tomi tite a Yo wana ot 
Ros ’ ya) iran) 4i) % [we fi 
& Cinerat . ; atl ne bs a ‘ibiet staetaoll rer uuhite sg’ sani 
‘wate iol -ytwody beaten 
2003 wlffll sind qe fo “ites bora ae looms edt 
e133; aivoi + [LA ~ramott uy Gi ittunti CERI? = ; beinsol ovad re 
tech Wink wit) selusn ea qmotelw yttniett at godeana® 
; . al it ils (IT jactew 90) nea 
“eri “Ssitie? od suri “nihey “Se DS stay nitangat abel aor | yd 
seciieii Wraith i eee sity si To Ha, ronda 
i <a cateun out) Iommi wi eed 
‘otro! fy i) > a eee ila aod) a leiettihedte wt 
aierod 37) es “arittatd UA pon totte tonel8 OF galiNipgs 
ante’ “stig at nee ofF Dk 
10409 elk nth opada shatonan of inui je ae 
‘prhia « Site itis? 
b vad ay © : miIyA pi *bithomt agsbaA hihi 
Tyanidy fimeam ail wi rrr ue » @aigtey? wed ‘Chugpportt oe nel. 
hein PT doses ilo iy vifwet 
2 viel qetrmiliin sade diy iain nit" shoe frre wien 4m) may © 
“evo J 
MA sie? oft [mk ,ttneiebhew «i dade wh08 deiipolt Hie 3 1 
te! : eee ain orn ge 
rittave ut oitive Bah ve. ~opedighel gt yaaa id 4 
Henleys, jad) gnid) peatorws adv, tant tt fle! cust aabh 38) Dali x Be " 
i701 oui ai 4 ~ &€ 
FTQGOTSEUY 2 LAA > 
Rede" HyitekA sit ' to Whine peo my t 71 re rns a 
Mend yess yC mish seritnay A eblogb, vtiodun eoodnsw 4 
styl) Nie ei marly bie rol ot 21 koud oo yew afl nai pny 
j 
/ 





Chestertown 


Continued 













ee : 

< pe PS ter Sed 
senate A fs 
aft oy Syd 


* 











hed et et. che 
Slay As go 2 AD al na 





Dio 


lec polenta t Ju 


SE ih 


Gea 






pad 


or: 


: 
last 








fy mee 
bea: 


iy Pe, 
a 


William Smith Hall—-Washington College 
(Established 1782). 


HONORABLE HISTORY AND TRADITION! 


Washington College is the oldest college in Maryland; the eleventh oldest in the 
United States. Many great men and women have gone through its halls in the 153 
years of its life. Great names are linked with its foundation—for example, George 
Washington, who gave it his name and active support. 

Among her alumni, Washington has counted United States Senators, and Congress- 
men; Governors, state legislators, great jurists, ministers and bishops in several denomi- 
nations, military heroes, college presidents and professors, scientists, captains of industry, 
leaders in all businesses and professions. 

An unbroken tradition of more than a century and half has given Washington College 
a unique and a noble history. 


Page Sixty Two 





| 
. 





+ : 
RR BA SR NR NN A A I SEN RA Se a 
pe 
ai 
» ms —_ . ’ _— “ ~ ? 
wor 
[44 


th yet: an eid ew ih; conn Bats saul mien bee nam re 















+S 


ce 


we 
a? 
’ ' ry 

- ‘ ‘ | 

n -" 5° : 
t a ; a 
7 os 
* ; 
¥ 7 _ 

“hres -e 


= Bed 6 

e = a 
t 2 s 4 . bs 

Pie ectar « peer wT er pst ; : , 
auolle) oliaouder dd. “ti adh diiare. cuit 

oars bodaitdiiaat | 

‘YOVTIGAHT GUA TAHOTAIH JIRAHOMON 

ai} mu seoblo divyzale ot sbawheeit AY aialie, webia oil a sl 





ig 


Myre) able AER Sot voor ae ie texdail aw 


Sf orien bane : 
zenuno h barn 2romniye ranks onietl cel aul 
“igties cea firprse me ve adind baw, tobi wen, Moy 


snetin to ence 2h egg tae a0 


Ch (AN) fe r to W N——Continued 


earmrne—e 


L 





~ z . ‘ 
Sas bf ct why ‘ "fe ae! Sap es deb “ ‘ Ne ey a t aie eee aT, hoe): 
sachs oar ge Pg ine RA GS cS ES as oe SE ae RE ne ENR DN sree Se eT A RS a a ei 


Gymnasium—wWashington College 


“The College is an integral part of Maryland. It is builded into its inmost fabric. 
It is an indissoluble part of the history of the state. Its graduates today are in the halls 
of the national congress; in both houses of the legislative assembly of Maryland; at the 
bar and on the bench; in the pulpits of the leading denominations; in places of honor 
in the Army and Navy; in commerce and in industry; in state and county educational 
administration; in college and university faculties. This is the Washington College 
ideal, as it was my privilege to define it on another public occasion a year ago; at which 
time I said: 


“Our training of youth must be not alone for the present as we know it, nor 
yet merely for their generation; but more largely for the future—even in the far 
distance—as we have reason to believe it will be. The masterful administration of 
the unforeseen must be the measure of our greatest success. 

“These are human and vital beings who compose this College body. They must 
not be content merely to live in the future; they must contro! it. For it 1s certain 
that the common denominator of all trainings, educations, and professions must 
without fail be intelligent citizenship.” 


: —PRESIDENT GILBERT W. MEAD. 


THE SMALL COLLEGE 


“Sometimes I think the sun of promise never shines so brightly as through the plain 
gless windows of the small college, and the moonlight of association never sleeps so 
sweetly as on the narrow, dusty paths of small-college learning. What is Oxford but a 
collection of small, even tiny, colleges? The state universities are noble department 
stores. “The small colleges are ‘gift shops. After all, a boy or girl who goes to college 
can read only one book at a time, listen to only one teacher at a time, Jearn only so many 
facts in a day, whether the college be large or small.” 

—Washington College Bulletin. 


Page Sixty Three 


























svealia vorgihise W—indieen mee 


» 

| vids} vortsi ai ori baliud zeal stinghgigl4 to: neq lergaint ase pene 
j 2Gil on? fi sti VEOO? iLtoMme eal i att! lo yrosiitl yttt lo oe a peerage 
ilk , Ort Vv. a 7 ied salah ot) to . yew sAsgwl nm eons 
. vache i wine wobeeh sae do ey lag od? om planed sar aoe 
fae viii vt Woda: te bab vA unt» ct ee bas enh 
Te Li AC rotate vine hee oy 7ilor ni [monet 
W116 Gua we! Bo . oldu mfitonn ao. 1 aitteb oF wl ig Vm enw yi 
i word dw ye} it onols ton od Jeu tives to yinaiign wO* = - 
| : oy) Ol Wiehe gio yd TAME ASY veoh w) ayo Io 
to mrousarvenuiectl Wun [ cw! Ue nt ovstlylonl moags oved ow 
m2SjuUe Tevlhate 100 lo een sili #] um 
raven vot ybeet agatigld aid gees och Spied Tae ee iene ae 
nin i moo ap faved. geome voit) sti? a eee Nig ; 
ua anon ; Amides een isi To LIAN RO pomrnos reds 
“qidenosea 305 anit al in mori 


OAaAM 2 THO THO 


(OALIOD. LIAM2 SET a 


sing iy dencnile an lee dyer) ue 2H yout opinion] jo nore oes doidds } somite”. 

: oa ceprabe Vy) tt neided> oak. Wy wl galavoest pelt tiny, say atlag fharwe acl poe ogg 

6 tid Task” a ml animshoysiliotiene ‘9 mead veab ,werme saermn odd ne ae oglts 

warwuash obien a, eaviaravicuw ale wile Jrauslle, son ave axis lone 

squids, of 420g civ Hey ae ga ie rant “aye nig? Herne of E ni 
wnkene ye eow ini! nin £ Ie Fa ay! ano claw me teil on see ¥ 

“Isms th Syiel xt a , 

mizalull ogetlas deargsyitet Wl, sua 0 Gas + tcl 


—* ws fi. 
ey ee 1 can i Faye 









“a 


if) ys 





Ch CS fe r to W 1——Continued 


THE STORY OF KITTY KNIGHT 


We were passing through the pretty town of Georgetown sometime ago, and there, 
perched on a hill was the Kitty Knight house. It is now used as an Antique shop, a very 
fitting use for that historic relic. “Oh tell me the story of Kitty Knight,” said one so I 
am going to tell it to you just as I heard it from one who in her childhood knew her and 
who lived near her. 

Kitty was a very beautiful woman and her proud father took her up to Philadelphia 
when she was eighteen. The Continental Congress was assembled there that winter, and 
in spite of the War of the Revolution, ev erything was very gay. One evening at one of 
the balls, George Washington came up to her, as she stood surrounded by scores of ad- 
miring young men, and said, ‘ ‘I want to see the young lady who is setting all my young 
officers “crazy,” and then@and there she ‘danced the stately minuet with him. It was 
something that Kitty never forgot and to the end of her life she would love to tell her 
listeners of that great winter. But the war was over and then another war was being 
fought with England about our rights on the high seas, the war of 1812. Admiral 
Cochran of England with her fleet was anxious to get into Philadelphia so he sailed 
up the Sassafras River, hoping to find a way through there. Then he spied the little 
village of Georgetown nestling among the hills, “Go,” he said to his men, “go and burn 
every house there. His men went to obey his command and soon the peaceful scene was 
changed to a scene of burning houses and fleeing women and children. But when they 
came to Kitty’s house she refused to stir. “If you burn the house, you burn me with it” 
she said. And so she stood her ground. The men, who did not fear to face a cannon’s 
mouth, did quail before her Hashing eyes and queenly bearing. So they went back and 
told their commander. “Are you afraid of a woman?” he said. “I will go myself.” 
And so he went. But when he encountered Kitty he, too, held back. “Leave this house 
standing,” he called to his men. Then turning to Kitty, he laughed and said, “When 
the war is over I will come back and marry you.” 

Kitty, of course, had many admirers, but her sharp tongue drove many away. 
Colonel Spencer, handsome and well born, sought her in marriage and Kitty loved him 
very dearly. In vain the Colonel’s friends wz arned him of her violent temper. She was 
sweet and docile with him. But one fateful day when she was expecting her lover a 
servant did something to displease her very much. So she emptied the vials of her 
wrath upon him not hesitating to use oaths. Alas, a horseman came riding up and heard 
the fair maiden. 

He turned his horse’s head and rode away again, so thus did Kitty lose the man she 
loved. 

And so she lived on, in the old house, until she was over ninety years. She grew 
very penurious in her old age. Yo the last she retained her flashing black eyes and 
her fiery temper.commanded and was obeyed. It has been many years since then, but 
as long as Georgetown stands on the shores of the Sassafras, so long will the story of 
Kitty Knight be told to passers by. 


CHESTER RIVER ATTRACTIONS 
The Chester River Yacht & Country Club at Chestertown is probably the only ex- 
clusive Eastern Shore Club in the nine counties. With 150 members, all from the Eastern 
Shore and -Kent County, the Club is housed in a commodious building on the Chester 
river, and a fine golf course invites the devotees of that sport to try their skill. The Club 
is affiliated with the American Power Boat Association and the Chesapeake Bay Yacht 
Racing Association. 





Page Sixty Four 


an 


aK 


Rm ag RRS REN SN TT Rn Mle 
H 





a3 


’ Va) 








ay 
f] 


peu 





THOWeD ert 4O qnote ane 


red bor .oysiomibsmos cvrossoo to ewer iron addy . Ot sat ee 
nev ¢ qortz supind, ng eh Loew won ai al seta dyin yt i orit eer Hart » bon 
Toe one bene “Urlyin 2h euiah lo yaa ade om Tet 10" .ottee oh me} ae ni 
bin tod view b nvadblids vor! at och sn stent Tbecol | an mo a to og 
an 


ratte! balidl of qutod doop wirifed hyo vad bc nesnow Intitansd ue 4 
ns tinea soto leaklersae¢ eave 2 reutgnoo humana sdT 
1 Sh Je ninats ont) ai ¢12V ary gridit) nonuley st otis Yo 18 ai 
5 lo ene ud babruemu heer afege aod of qu oie qonaiieny 
wre7)< mite, gtr ef ody vial gimey ort ax oF ie T° tee Bea ‘oom 00 
Lew. it wd itive ipucin vigetepads Goorieb site — lute opi: baw R 
19H lis) oF seal blawi sife-oid tad 10 bits of) oo Lng joy yr ies 2 
jrire! envy we gafijons asi bee WYO: 2h Ow sii wi eter wate 
eumid, -S14h to rew off! atodget ont no ety we idede 
stirs onl oo cidglobaled’ om J OF euorets aw jock iad dibw 
a4] 5 , coll Tb) Asgansrels (én & bow or gniqed sori wlan 


mood bas ou” ,eoen aul ov bire of a” ailad odt gyno goileon a 
te ladle vil aoe hoe eens Fal ixlo oi tadw pom 7h seo eae 
rath carter mw highs how amen yrigst hac. evuor yiomud to ont € of bong 

it iw sit fab Lin iod od: atwebpoyv a" core ot tyeetiin ork aeved oyu one 
x meer : B 338) OF 4 Ji i its and 4 71310 wit -houony ror | ice otiz Ls 4 bad. , Dt oe 
bac dyed snow voir 08 +.g0ne . dinasap biz ato Qrindeelt wed noted line bib 
isevin oO ; bers ad “tanmow ¢ te bite vey a/.” apboeminoe ve 
Pht | wd Lisd werish mn woman wl aodw wa saew od . 
vai f/ i cwvinuel of $A oF dead nalt nom ado balles od.™ bax 
“06% 2tuun ban dow! cmos ting J vivo a 9 
ears im 3/0 quow! oer wd md ame voem bad. swop do ie 
tid | ; yiti/L bah oer 1 fr tae whyyor 760% 4 bed bas omeoslbededd /39tae 
ite ee a & rout bones eboter ¢lonolol) os cies abo 
Tel re cattle vbbolylsid. one toll mid dive adigeh bas” 
is [yabdtrrn ? avta TY wr Peakpil of goittames Tb 

n & 4 « H 

tl ep tA, wedltio seu OF quitgtieorl son mid haga: 





am 

































+ noid 


. —" 


sd 
e~ 
ia 


+5 
"aay 


d2 amar ads ovel wuz bib cael oe .diege yuvre dbor bas bagel a’ otod ziek veces Ht 
iG a2 Roe ‘etoieeh 4 cen wh fonw enol blo oft ni xo bovil afte 0 ba 
ie 7 id gontalt yt Lowtegsa oft denb adr oT = .oub ble ted ae keoaeea ss 
idl hy oe rnéer weal costal Ayeyado ¢ bine Leb 

id it zit vn ai cosh f 139 eew Lite Rar bong 

in view oily Trew gnol ot »utineeht Se) do eyraadle orl no abnete 


vd eryaugq on blot sd sali 


. VOW INITTA AIVEA AATAAHD 
ao ving oll Yidminig a wHuremel? IeahD ue, % Ion’ ravill 
nied ath cml Ils aig teeters Ge 1 hae Fh ea anita orl ai del 

vere?) od) ao galled noite 6 at Wome xi dal ark wgawe)). 
tuk? ofl _Oohe aiovl) saeoa dene ted? laipheeub sds antival souer, Hog 50a « be 
jdon tT entt abi i Tt Lie yinyored. Kul wweo'l fiheyivaety vt dave 





ve® 


~*~ 
: 


Continued 





Chestertown 


THE ANN McKIM 
By NELL C. WESTCOTT 


if I had the skill of an artist 
I would paint a picture true 
Of a pioneer ship of long ago 
That sailed the Chesapeake blue, 
The Ann McKim, oh, the Ann McKim, 
The first of the Baltimore clippers, 
Begotten was she of a master mind 
And adored by all the skippers. 


Picture her white in the morning light 
With her snowy sails all set, 
Or darkened against a red, round sun, 
A glorious silhouette. 
Skimming the bay with gallant ease 
To the sea, full-rigged and trim 
And rounding the treacherous Horn with speed. 
The beautiful Ann McKim, 


Riches she bore from foreign lands, 
The chanteys must have been gay 
As the sailors neared the great home port 
Far up the Chesapeake Bay. 
Once the pride of the merchantmen, 
She sailed to the earth’s farthest rim, 
Now all that remains is the memory 
Of the beautiful Ann McKim. 


The Ann McKim was the first American clipper, in fact she was the first clipper 
ship of all ages, built to embody both speed and cargo capacity. Although she sailed the 
seas for a dozen years aiter she was launched, in 1832, outsailing all the vessels engaged 
in the China trade, it was not until 1844 that the first real clipper with the long hollow 
water line and the sharpening of the forward body and the stern was built. 

No one had ever attempted to reproduce the lines of a small swift vessel in a large 
one, until in 1832 Isaac McKim, a wealthy merchant of Baltimore, commissioned Ken- 
nard and Williamson of Fell’s Point, Baltimore to build a ship embodying as far as 
possible the lines of the famous Baltimore clipper brigs and schooners. This ship, named 
in honor of the owner’s wife, was the Ann McKim, of 493 tons register, a large vessel 
for those days. She measured: length, 143 feet; beam, 31 feet; depth, 14 feet; and drew 
17 feet aft and 11 feet forward. She possessed many of the striking features of the Balti- 
more clippers of that period; namely, great dead-rise at her midship section, long easy 
convex water lines, now free-board, and raking stem, stern-post and masts, and was really 
an enlarged clipper schooner rigged as a ship. Her frames were live oak and her bottom 
was sheathed with red copper imported for this purpose. The flush deck was fitted with 
Spanish mahogany hatch combings, rail, companions and skylights. She mounted twelve 
brass guns, and was equipped with brass capstan heads, bells, etc., and carried three sky- 
sail yard and royal studding sails. She sailed in the China trade for a number cf years, 
and upon the death of Mr. McKim in 1837 was purchased by Howland and Aspinwall 
of New York. 

The Ann McKim, from the fact that no ship had ever been built like her, offered an 
object of considerable interest in the maritime world, and it is certain that during the 
years following her appearance, more determined effort was made in the United States 
to improve the model and sailing qualities of ships. She ended her days under the 


Chilian flag. 


Page Sixty Five 

















































flo ,wloV re Oo) @iacant 

teh ai2 30 wh OOP Om ee 
be i ote aw erate 

‘a td botabs Cc » . 

Jitoll antetrog sit ci tides sod ore 

foe te alae wvrohs 180d ws ea 

vue Hanon at o jeulean bon 15 0 


varfovostite a ae Ph 
saa Jialug tain tad ont : » : 
mits hin hogelilint no od) oP ; 

bweqe ablye — rytone ort aulbaug BoA ) 2 

“ waiA ivitineod ofT é 

tbat Aaisqol (wet wed ofa seotst o¢- 

‘iu nao oven Sein eeoitadoe eAfT P 

frog cardi dbots sl) hoped siidaer ao? aA& . 

Ua. stiqantD odt qe 108 i 


hamingtiviat ait Ww ating of sonO 
cit fsetiivny wWilhine os Ob Bolin of 
conten ot bt aniaino Will He work 
To WEA Tossed adi 10 


wyais tert of) exw ole onl of oaggils emul tera odt ew OOM AAA 
“Ai Balice ore duuewhlA  rucetey ones tae taoqe shed zlasders os Sel cog lle Ye 
beguuns vleergy Set In wroliieten 2 Fal ri clewhaen! ecxv ok poke eevy ossob ® 
wolleul suol oda Ative aveqyila for fA alt dads PPD Ing Jon see fh be soit Sf 
jlind sow sate odd Das thod barioat ail) lo yinasgisds ails bas sail 33 
gay » OY Vomeey Iw il & fo earth oly cuboTiTA oO tt rove bad mg ¢ An 
‘woe orotic jo sedogay pdilpow « alae sen! SERY af Te 
u ofviweiire ql « blvd on aH gels alot Jo: meant,  & 
bowtan vue sit ¥en oul) fe god yap nth evorwal Sef To earl 
1S2e%'7 srruwm ef ter in wild mt/, oii eee siew eseneo oli to OF 
wo jen i .digoh pidot Le were) crodt BF) due! ‘tenuesom ofZ 
Win orb Jo ennieol quote sie gitste foweemeog od@ Jbrawrol sb 1: 
Y2iS on i sonia i! icdaun sot 1 Seibel) oa , ratice {berar jel to 
Yiliet se bay .wrenit bee von aya roe Bey Lietss ‘ivind onl won .zortit + 
motel rit! ne xe0 wil Row 2amialser Gide bac bopen ianoorse reqqils 
bigs bouR eew aoeb cauli alt , cepa eit tl barra jitii 19qqo> bar dhiiw ws 
winwd bateudv sic -etigiedk bas 2st DANGER Hitt «ycidengs pina : nea 
“ae anti barns bon om 2ibd sabes Heh > arard risies baqqibps : any 
nese i) radifun «363 clu) perdol ane sit? ~ tine pL revto 
Di eh bin banhyalt hig ‘ver snuey asia Cit at ro 


fae i vito, 11! sae thine iiood waa bedi qisle ian drat 250) ol a 
of}, gninuwb aids gti i 1 bas bow 
eoind? fimin’) oft a? chen coy ois 


sf alii <ul) 19d bebine ae aaele. : 7 pri pay 


tee 
ahs 
“ihe AR 
he el 
“ 


vet fis 
b ole moquy be 
= ‘ts 
aa 
veoliol 





\ 


haa @ a a 


Ch CS te i fo W fi——Continued 





i a Fe “ 
ae rs eas 
» Ces eas 
~ m % % % 
$ fis Pat Se 
bess Y: 4 ; 
ess " 
3 a aoe. A, Ke 
featestites tee DE sete > Ra: Fk wes A 

— 





OLD FRIENDS’ DAY AT ST. PAULS 


Quietly the people move out into the Churchyard, and then comes the social phase of 
the gathering—greetings renewed, smiles end bows and the courtly graces and amenities 
8 : Re 4 
interchanged as young and old commingle in gladness of the happy and auspicious 


occasion. 





THE TREES OF OLD ST. PAUL'S 
NELL C. WESTCOTT 


Massive oaks, whose great wide sheltering 
arms 
Tower above the ancient ivied walls— 
Two hundred years or more—one halt 
their life 
They’ve breathed a blessing over Old 
St. Paul’s. 
Before the church was built those trees 
were old 
And like a faithful priesthood they have 
served, 
Through generations passed and turned to 
mold 
Yet, never trom their mission have they 
swerved. 


Within this church, the prayers have 
never ceased, 
Tradition lives 
these, 
The oldest parish names still live today, 
Descendants worship here beneath the 
trees. 
A venerable shrine is this: the trees, 
The church, the holy dead beneath the 
sod 
And over all there rests a sense of peace 
As though touched by the loving Hand 
of God. 


no transient people 





Chestertown Enterprise, 


Old St. Paul’s, Kent County, 1698, 


Page Sixty Six 


BENTZTOWN BARD, 


In the Baltimore Sun. 


TO AN OLD HOUSE 


It is a pleasant thing to step inside 

A house where age is but a friendly ghost 

Who greets one with the portals swinging 
Wide 

And wears becomingly a perfumed host 

Of memories, A ghost who goes unseen 

Yet I have felt her brush across my way 

To leave behind her, as within a dream, 

The coolness of a long forgotten May. 

And I have heard her steps upon the 
stairs— 

A fairy sound of one forever young— 

And I have heard upon the empty air 

The whisper of a song that she has sung; 

She would not go, she does not ask re- 
lease— 

She holds the magic of a distant star. 

Perhaps today, I’ll thank her for my peace 

And leave a rose within the empty jar, 


JOYCELYN BRANHAM, 
Chestertown, Md. 


—_~ 

















2iU 44 72 TA YAG ‘20“a184 ai0 
lo sburly bntsoe aly ear park bid bre yien td orl) ofni Ive svort akong ould yt 
inom boe g7c1g 7/uoy sey fy awed Une eolime .bewens tgnits: vole 
wotiqeus bus yoosd ol jo reid is alghionrio> blo boa ynvey alls 319 
. nA AWOTNTYA ay 
uy routed EP at ) 
SS ee 
CUITAT Te 2 chlo 10 rca & 
TrooTaaw mo | U 
| satvezioda oblw jnoig ssodw 
. S200 Gu ZA OF -" —aiiew heivt tuetsne ede 
Med *t#e—s10m 140 ats 
bisa Tore wy * ? lireanwety a ei af 
j Jenne vibstong a hid a noiw arene A tO teve guleesid 2 ber 4 
; aulyili ve Getvog whi dilly oo siete enw 8 
(biw fom? seo: ed pew dots 
ia ? 


SI Mey ££ “Lanne! athe dee bio 
thieha it v4 ON? Feons * , swine y tad “ol! hoodmeig Jotdslale 
Cay val enon Head ri} itot ave) toe 
mach i itnatily ui. bales Liatiind ovitel oT o7 bene) boa homeaq 

TOV. Nash ano! n ye eegninas oAT 
Sd! oyu ejose vad Dated samt tT fede ed) evead aolasins teas 
—tinte 
‘Sitog I9ve70) odo Io Nndew yer A i 
Jims a) toqu bteotl opt lb hnA even neretq €23 
Shit eoldcs todd wide. le wT 
“ot Hes Jo seoh ons on ton blagw oe slgoeg Jooleaat 









heey @ 




















~ 


toedial « 
Tele Jacteib wolo styumt od! shia -tHhod sil [ite 
ea ‘Cia te soit Se tt eahaay Sapleel on) dingasd wted 


ThE 2iMrere ac? wnt ies seo ware [A 


A BP a7 - 
AINA, VYIAOYOE od! A3snened | 
HM av or luadD ze 


eoKoq tO sanaw! &: 
hae pated vas 


a: - y alt a ee ~e ; nig 7‘) 
| 2637 vonwed , ie ih ai ny 
: ; PP. a : os = 


a 





Ch es te ni fo W fi-—--Continued 


PLANTS THAT GREW IN COLONIAL GARDENS 


American Holly Honey Locust Sweet Bay 

Red Cedar Beech Pomegranate 

English Yew Cucumber ‘ree Sabie Bush 

Irish Yew Southern Macnolia Lilac 

Tree Box Eurepean Linden English Ivy 

Bush Box Americen Elm Cross Vine 

‘Colonial or English Box Weeping Willow . Periwinkle 

Mimosa Sweet Shrub Virginia Creeper 

Red Bud Crape Myrtle Figs 

White Dogwood Courtesy of Easton Shore Nurseries, Inc. 
English Hawthorne Easton, Md. 





MANY HAPPY RETURNS, MR. BARNES! 


Young couples seeking a divorce—and disgruntled employees considering a change, 
‘should meet Mr. John W. Barnes of the Chestertown Transcript. His record is 67 years 
as an active employee of the Transcript. 

In 1875 George A. Hanson, of Radcliffe Hall, Kent County, began to write his 
“Old Kent” which was published serially in the Transcript, and Mr. Barnes set the type 
by hand. In 1936 a revised edition cf this book was republished by R. H. Collins & 
Sons, the present owners of the Transcript, and Mr. Barnes was there to lend a hand. 
61 years had elapsed since he set the type for the first book. Showing slight traces of 
wear, at 82 he is still considered a “good printer.” 


LOOK NOT. UPGN: THE WINE WHEN TT: IS RED 


A certain thrifty housewife in Kent ccunty wes making wine—just a little for the 
stomach’s sake. She threw the fermented pulp out in the parc, where it was eagerly 
gobbled up by a flock of hungry turkeys. Lo and behold, when the lady looked out 
every turkey wes prone on his back—dead te the world. Thinking her turkeys were 
killed, she immediately plucked all their feathers—still thrifty, saving what she could, 
and threw the dead turks down the hill. Next morning every turkey c came walking home 
with not a feather to his back. The turkeys were merely drunk. Winter was coming 
on—turkeys bring money—so the lady was forced to make red flannel jackets for 29 
turkeys in order to protect them against the frost of autumn. No fatalities were reported. 








THE, ECCENTRIC MR. WICKS 


In the good old days—maybe forty years ago, maybe longer, a very eccentric individ- 
ual named Tom Wicks kept a general store in Chestertown. For some reason he re- 
fused to take out a trader’s license, ond the city fathers refused to let him sell his mer- 
chandise. Not at all abashed, Mr. Wicks hired a clerk, opened the store every morning 
at nine o'clock, closed at three and enjoyed himself immensely. 

Once he treated his attorney to a cigar, but refused to let him smoke it in the store. 
He took his meals with a colored woman because the rattle of spoons in the restaurant 
annoyed him. 








The Sho is full of surprises; something doing every minute by the clock. Even the 
weather has a habit of changing its mind, and the darkest morning will give way to a 
beautiful sunshing day that makes you glad you're living. 


Page Sixty Seven 










































‘a sah 





seayamne’l Fi das 
hail shown tani wien? 
sited meh assed 
eri lai Paar aebni.) ncoqgourt 
ini'¥ ese) ; wi asonameé. 
Seat wolliW yaoi W 
Imp) sminst'/ dude weve 
ei atrvyiA 2019 
! 2.sitemwA svodé nor oe ” ene 
GIA noted ad a 
ee 
2I~HAM SM 2eaoTat 145 YAAM 
weds « prnabienon iqetts lyalt: witigeits Lee—mavib « yerisiose 


= TB 21 bodot a4 oeteyT iaseieei) ah to aan W adel aM vase | 
AtimocnerT sdt-te sa 28 as 

ad sow of neged inne) maA Teh sfitisbat jo wiceastl A synod set 34 
stget ault ynveit 4 tw saree fT ods nt yllense brodevtihuy exe doiutw “oA b 
9 anid T4 St wil bot fener gun dood eule lo monies bere e ore al -bnad x 
Dia ry O2 S750! + yore al tae ga wn T oll % 2eawe Inoeng ah 
lo zxcot iigile univiod4 dove! sertt ofl tal ov) orls ase ork ooniz beagals bed 
“quit beog” » lewhinod Mig a od SB eg 


~~ 





IH a Tt VARW S4IW aT “WOW TOK AOO] 


Win yoda ew Whew wed oi saliwswed ylinds pjckae* 
. fy om sao thoy Leta ol words ode edema 


io bavlool ybef or) eodw Slots Tegel ened praaud lo doo « yd qu t olddo 
; 1 /OAI opted) Sutetw orf lar leeh—docd 2id pa snoig, ew 
i » jorbo unin rte) ES aeaipea? veer ae byst-vale visi bertent ste | 
ncidlnw onieas voIbu) ovo Sel wot lid al) wwob eh beob oil : be 
Mexia r vari FF ih (Ung ste” evedve off heed aid ep wediasl oa 
wit 2SADu wy wes anil tema) vay elnil oh Of -—"(Hod anid >», 


bolrena cow emlent oA jotted Baa) ol feaiage wads DOTY GF 





2417 .AM OATAIIOA AUT 


biviboroolagns Yio & oounel adgvne Ope Bay ynel ofyom—eyeb ral 

304 porns Sine? WO OTM mh em lemarg n god ahiW 

sorty perl. Usb rice og) ot abe racial via st bas oe rcapal * yobing hb tuo odes on be 

yitingeyn pee mol 2) uals bityls eo banid hit 7 ol oodesis fle i ; 
: + SiS rye J nite Gear oid lei vous all 7 

sibie Silt ti 0h lane f(t tol wy lpoemiaa rail Tho & ot Yoerie. 

Winther why da emmy: IO ghyaics oes} oe utoat Homew teavtlen ® 





> ee oe | 

ath ard = tvelo wile a gh ae ehh Shiutronnie pried et 
go yey 97g Uw umn wadreboodt bay doer 2 gil b ia A 
penvil over buly woe 





Crisfield 





t 3 eee ay | 
FE faa hee REE: = feiriei ns aoa 






e. x 
5 — s rae en 

© Ses Sep Rey, 
ae ETA ON % 








Crisfield Harbor at Noon 


“On February 10, 1663, ‘“Emmesox’ (Annemessex) containing 300 acres was surveyed 
for Benjamin Summers.” 

That tract is still partly within the city limits. “Summer’s (Somers’) Cove” is men- 
tioned in early. records, including “The Life of Joshua Thomas”, published in 1823. 

About 1845, the oyster industry began to flourish in these parts, and hence a greater 
settlement around the Cove (that secticn north of the Jersey Bridge here). An old map 
which I recently saw, showed the storehouse of Michael Somers, at the mouth of the 
Annemessex River, about twe and a half miles toward Tangier Sound, from the present 
steamboat wharf, and called the settlement “Somers’ Cove.” At that time, however, 
mail coming here was directed to “Lankford’s Store” which stood near the present water 
works. 

In 1866, when the railroad lines were extended to the village, the postmark “Crisfield” 
was first used. Crisfeld was incorporated in 1872. Petitioners for charter were William 
“Delaware” Holland, Edward Tawes, Thomas Riggin, Col. Thos. S. Hodson, and Dr. 
Gordon T. Atkinson. The last-named is the only surviving member of the group. 

William P. Horsey, now 83, brought mail to Lankford’s Store from the end of the 
mail route, when a lad. Mail was dispatched to and from here by horseback to Roach- 
vilie, near St. Peter’s Church, two and a half miles from Lankford’s Store. 


JOSEPH McGRATH. 


Artistically etched against the blue waters of the Annamessex river, Crisfield possesses 
a certain natural charm that makes it especially interesting to visitors. 

Here one meets again the Ancient Mariner, and listens to his story. In and about 
its environs are found some of the finest examples of Colonial architecture in the State. 

Its lack of ostentation, the simple but adventurous lite of its hsher-folk lends an inde- 
finable charm that captivates and holds the most sophisticated traveler. 

Unique in many ways, it is a Mecca for those who delight in exploring odd corners 
of the earth and reveling in scenes of rustic beauty. 

For the disciples of Isaac Walton, Crisfield is a drezm come true. Its waters abound 
in fish. Tangier Sound offers one of the finest courses in the world for yacht or motor 
boat racing. A straight stretch of fitty miles with no detour or stop signs on the way. 

Another striking feature of this delightful little town is her $13 mules of shell streets. 
Crisfield began in the water and grew out to solid ground. Onginally the home of the 


Page Sixty Eight 


CT St ni le ae A. 


a nn ee in eB ae Sil dca | 





we 

























106% Jo tov, biedain) 


® 


, -— PNA 
beyovine en erice WE uoinioine (xoxzamocnt,} ‘xomramd’ £001 01 erecrdod AQ". 
“ene amos 


fom 2 2/0 (ornd2) e2aagmye? titel iio st aidsive vinngy Yi 4 new 
Clb a budvihlag “eset consol jo att oft enitbuloni ,abopses. 
‘ity F it tyes eee sears dealt Oo) i yx +tivubeets 9279 ody eet : 


Bihia aA. otal 4obaN went Side Alen poise tops) 9109 ods Lewows: a0 


ti mas ermic. | a i Iq s8thvierus ol) bewode wm qhasm by 
insesiq 4dz sony 1 rhb D bxesror *slun titi] « hae owt suode 9vi8l xesene 
ee wd task = * ws etantee” Yasroins odd bolles bee hadw ie 3] 
Tol y* tort: Seer out dvd “spit #broitant” ot hero cow aad aa 
)” -Arsestzou off) woualley silted trabirstea wiow soni! beonkter sch nodw Oe al 
LW H whith) wr etouliteh: Snel hastoywani zew bhewienD | base 
CT bute eholl 2 ood 100) ie ui tempat aswkTl Inewhd sooadlots Naty 
nt Lee viet oar et beserewe teed od crear, coe 
fy. tent aini2 2] teed vl hieen tituow .§# won waaohl 9 enoilfi¥ 7 
* Avedesiort Ge! siod oat brat cy Tyarkss: serio see tie hal 5 aenw 
fare ar. 4 ron elie te: in bug wi lnudd vast A 2 
HVTANDsld H4a20) ) 


esee emmy Lloret vin yoo WANA te atjnw sald sy nainys boshora 
litiesy ()) Hearts tei augers ni ever pod ona hate 6 

tage baie al cre itl on nada Ab Aetna mscwd. vets fuegG pe 4 
Mad wa sthtosiulsw ly: hole’) Vy sohgenens seonit oft te eos twugl « 
shin ak ebniel sit ed 2gt iol siorinaseby vied y\pusie at ,notainoiee I 
) ovat? Nsdeouaitqee Sieh att stud bas. eg 


mane? bia ofiewlgy aint wlectuly ody erty 19) mM. « et a Pp wise a a 


eh We ip a 
bpried: roca atl jours ants enh op i) none 
Talo 1h Irey 70) leo sil nt xed anit wand act, jo wh 


ae F- wit if ae : v) bay 7? ue rs oe i bape i 
es09iTe Lote Ju gol +. & wl2L Whe a] 

: peg, aytialiver r90 7 —- 
a Io seed sds yleonAO -bayerg hilos g u > - 
: — ar 
a 7) " 





Crisfield 


Red man, Indian relics abound, and thriiling stories are told of buried gold, and “sure 
~’nough” ghosts that haunt the fine old mangisins ef ante bellum days, 

Only shipwrecks and the tragedies of the sea mar the quiet life of those excellent 
people. Hospitable and kind, to the stranger they extend a hearty welcome. Of Crisfield 
it has been said that there is no other place just like it in al! the forty eight States. 

It is full of human interest; rich in tradition, and filled with much that is unusual 
and alluring. Unspoiled by the rush and roer of modern life, it pursues the even 
tenor of its way. : 

Known as the seafood Capital of the U. S. shipments of the luscious Tangier oysters 
have been made direct to Buckingham Palace, Engiand. 

Its menfolk go down to the sea in ships and return at nightfall to the comfortable 
homes that dot the countryside. 

They have what gold could never buy—peace, contentment, and rugged health. 


EDITOR 


Continued 





OUR BURIED TREASURE 


In Memory of Lorie C. Quinn, Jr., who passed away three 
years, az0,,0n May 29th)” “Buried in ‘st. Paul’s, Church Yard, 
June Ist, 1931. 


Where gray seas crimson with the dawn, 
And mountains rear their summits cold, 
To greet the Sun-God hastening on, 
Men search for Pearls and Gold. 


But in this quiet shady spot, 
So dear to misty human eyes, 
Where sleeps the dead, by some forgot, 
Our buried treasure lies. 


So little of earth lies here between, 
Yet we shall always seek in vain 

The touch of gentle hands that mean 
The solace of our pain. 


And we shall never cease to miss 

The cheery voice, the smiling face; 
The gentle hand-clasp, and the step 

That seems to echo yet, tnrough space. 


Three years have gone, oh son so dear, 
We miss you every night and day; 
We cannot think of you as dead, 
But that you’ve only gone away. 


The Robins in the tree tops sing, 
The gentle breezes whisper low; 
The sun and showers of pulsing Spring, 
All nature seems with life aglow. 


And still upon this grassy sod 
Where pale leaves scatter year by year, 
Our tears must fall; oh tender God! 
Our Treasure’s buried here, : 
Mother and Father, 


Page Sixty Nine 








ee 
o eins 7 
















































i » feet : “4 
‘ * i. — al 
uz" bos ,bloy bond lo bleu we svitom yeild bre | naar tn bcs pote 
evel muthai same to oe blo onal ors srused tect wtendh 

talldoys sod? lo ai! Isiup wid Yet HOR . ns : atanteqicle le 
blorlam 2) -smoolew yiworl = heteatito, youll toguni 201 oF .bnid bae oldbiiqeok a: 


roe ityes ynotwh ls oi un od 


ite TEX : a 
2Tokvo_ rma avormen! os Jo eneperdy 2 7) ors jo letiqn) bootie sft ee te 
= - Py A « ii Fi te 
banigad aaclet ricrlynidoutos tamib sbam nad 3 

sidntolnes ot or Halidgig m meige bas ice a ese oct ot avvob og dlolnom n 
} 4 a. ’ y 

biaynues od? tab pad 

Aled bean A ORE JN Seg —¥ wl qoven lugs biey darling avail 


ROTICN ; 


> we 


ee ed 





— 





AVIZASANT Q4tTIA ATO ; ; 
~ le 
ij oiv .o- attiv® 2 +10] Yo wiomel af wl 
Ah od") r #2 a h wil mstl qa co ona easy : 
-18@1 Jet enat 
» a) ASW teentiis roo “ong sted W 
; ja veel? het eattelai t baA 
ii tél seyel arty ‘eid ® 17 hee BD | of ; 
lv) ba Wve wt seoe weld 
/ 
Jone ef mite aif) al Jo 
Wo Motgud tim os tae of ~ 
‘ion. 2d. buelh of] eqeaia oad W 
owt vivecot) belred wO (a 
. 
oe wiolt stan eetf fixce Yo af931l of 
atsy it} Waa evawia if ‘ ew ley : 
aos Jul) shear! alien ic dood otk r 
Hidg wea lo eocion oAT ; 


tht of Swe) teaver flade ww bak : S 
a) tile of? oevy varus olT 

Pils of) De ,cenis-hand siiaag odT 
is mown) oy OSs OF antooa SadT 


1h90 O82 S08 £0 .sion «+708 PLAS. esvdT : 
ch bie tain goers voy csint ow p 1 
hash #8. 90% lo daid) Jonna eW 
(awa sung Ylge 47 wo. Jad) tod 


ule 990) Gu! of) o} eqidoH oAT 
taqeldw aexsowd oliueg adT 

ueiva® gateieg Yo mewods bao aus ode - 
wolun ali] dtiw amtess sivten WA 


“-awol 


boa (wat eid] noqa Ha baad Lew 4 
‘180% Cd In9% yOSlaue <ayeel olny gied'W > 
'poOd “ohael do <ifs? saim’ ataes gore 
ora! bohiad #oivesstT a0 ye 
i (art) ee *,. 
eid usp . 
: » ; 7 a . ge = ' 


.s i; - 
~~ 
: : i - 





19f%6% bas yodiolé 















Cr isfie (hg patra 


THI UNKNOWN DAG 


I came from the billowy Chesaneake 

When her waves were a-dance in the spring, 
My sail was oue of a thousand sails 

That skipped like a euli on the wing: 

I rode from the Prairie’s dusty face, 
When the lone star paled in morn: 

I left my hoe in the frugrant egnth 

Alone in the Kansas corn. 


Who savest his life shall lose it, 

’Tis a part of the iniinite plan; 

My life was ‘lost in the fields of death, 

And now I am God that was man. 

I came from the roar of the mil! and shop, 
From the swirling smoke and the grime, 

My face was streaked from the furnace heat, 
My hands with its iron slime. 


I came from the mine and the lumber camp, 
From parent, and wife, and the maid, 
From blood of my blood that was dearer than life, 
I came with a smile unafraid. 
Who loses his life shall saye it— 
From the carnage of war flaming red; 
I am a nation’s living soul, 
I am—the unknown dead. 
DAVID L. QUINN, Crisfield, Md. 
Reprint from Crisfield Times. 





MISS CRISFIELD 


The sweetest girls in all the world 
Live down on the Eastern Shore, 
But the sweetest of these—-— 
Pay attention, please, 
In office or shop or store, 
Is the Crisfield girl 
With form petite—with sparkling eyes 
And shapely feet, 
And a manner so doggone—dazzling sweet, 
That you forget your town and street, 
When every little dear you meet, 
Is just the sweetest of the sweet. 
mhese Crisneld. 2inis=— 
Bobbed hair or curls, 
Lord knows my head just whirls 
And whirls; 
I may be old—my feet are flat; 
My hair is gray—I have no hat, 
But gee, my heart goes pitty-pat, 
Whenever I see those damsels sweet, 
Those Crisfield girls with form petite 
Come gayly tripping cown the street. 


THE MAN FROM MAINE. 


Page Seventy 





an 


7 = 
anol ewoenrs unr 
¥ 
S27 3h iid wd) mor oun 1 
aie at! on PO 22" sovew 16d aa ¥ 


s trom farmesed) « lo oe aay tien. M 
iuulw efi gu ile o stl! boqulde AT 

ooh) Leah eetiionl od: aroy) ohar I 

ww Al beluq cele onol 449 god® 


vies TBH ods oi vod Um Not te 


009 aseneA ofl ni saolA 


1) oegl fade oii! cid teovan ofW 

dag Sttehai «0 lo reg aw 

Line te eiteR off) ut s20l eew ofb UM 
Hata eew ted} bod me I won bok 

* bee “iver ef) Je wor «4! motd ontas I 


wif! optw ealont« 


uu aut? a3 (ey bexcows eew sont XM 
ate mort att Adblw ehand vi 
donut ott ban agio ot! mot sargo tT - 
a of) bre #liv hea aed movt 
orit « 4 Hh tew 1882 healt vor to boold mort 
: hiraein altrae « dikw eras 2 
i eae tiagl ri] i aesol of VF 
bow gride taw bw o eo wf! atest 
ee Gali nollan «a oa lt 
huel awonday adj—amas I 
f) ‘ed Af 


en 





CLEQEWRIT) were 


it fg wi w4is Jaoteowe od T 
sei ait oo awob avi 

werd) th jeeloupwe i} 308 
Ona Teta tad 

"Tih ta node ww «illo ni 


hte hietheis’) art) al 

eons PENNY iy inva? Aitw 
A > an a : ty bal 

vA iE ‘Avpadh az-Tens a nha 
HOt yur vz rautT 


land toy pie alytll vis7s wert W 
ve oll Ip jevtouwa onf7 jeut af 
shila Biehvin) onotT - 
ity fo tint boddor 
iifw sen fife var awond bread 
we -jalatew bak 
seh ates) gyt Sel ac ‘earn I 
lad On, ofp de-garay a) vied ral A 
St teqie- eee wee faed we voy tH | 
“pera wirnd ade ove !  wiyeten Ve 
4lhoy vivebhwdie altin hiettais? eoolP 
Joote alt avet Mitaei «ling ema 


SMIAM VO AM GT 


wolitiwe off mort 


+ 


















































Continued 





Crisfield 


LEGEND 


A West Indian trading schooner arrived in Somers’ Cove, and the Captain and the 
crew, frightened almost speechless, managed to stammer out a strange story. It was a 
little after dark when they came near Tangier. What was their surprise to see several 
campfires burning where the British had camped years before. The blaze lit up the 
deserted and dilapidated forts. But not a thine soul was in sight. The sailors thought 
it strange at first, and a moment later the absence of human beings took on the aspect of 
the supernatural: For clear and strong on the air came the sound “of mauy voices in song. 
When the vessel came closer to the Island the voices suddenly hushed and the fires were 
suddenly extinguished like so many candles in a draught. Then a band began to play. 
The music became louder and louder. In horror the sailors realized it was coming nearer 
the ship. Then above the music they were able to hear the sounds of a bugle, the beats 
of a drum, and the shuflling footsteps of a marching army. The Captain and the crew 
were almost petrified with fear. Straight on the water toward the ship the vast, invisible 
army marched. But it passed on by, and finally the shuf fling of footsteps was eee the 
moan of the wind. Nevertheless the band, though faint, could still be heard until the 
vessel was almost to Somers’ Cove. A week later another freighter landed a terrified crew, 
who told precisely the same story. 

It was not long before every mariner dreaded to pass Tangier Island. The British 
settlement was Gapted. Each evening after dark the graves opened and the dead British 
soldiers rose. Campfires quickly appeared. Around the magical fires the invisible soldiers 
gathered and lustily sang martial songs. At a certain time the fires vanished as suddenly 
as they appeared. The soldiers fell into line. Then amid the playing of bands, the 
tapping of drums, and the blasts of bugles, the phantom army marched over the bay 


straight toward Baltimore. 
Excerpt from “The Unpolished Diamond” by R. Nels. 


The Unpolished Diamond is a novel built around the life and times of Joshua 
Thomas, the ‘‘Parson of the Islands;’’ The British fleet anchored off Tangier during 
the war of 1812, and the British soldiers were camped for a time on the Island. 
Parson Thomas predicted the defeat of the British forces at Baltimore, Mr. Nel’s 
book is a stirring narrative of that turbulent period, in which Joshua was a central 
figure, Whether or not the ghostly figures of the defeated British still haunt the 


waters of the bay, we are not in a position to say. 


THE EASTERN SHORIE— 


The angels smiled upon it— And when at last ’twas finished, 
For it lay so peaceful there— And lacking nothing more, 
They filled with air with perfume They knelt in silent prayer 


From the rose and lilacs rare, Before the beauties of the Shore, 


They mirrored the lakes with silver, 

And sprinkled it o’er and o’er I know not when the call shall come, 

With stardust from the skies—- When I have run my race, 

Down on the Eastern Shore. But I know what e’er befalls me— 

I’ll cherish this dear old place, 

And thus my prayers ascend each day 

They bathed it in golden moonbeams To knock at heaven's door; 

With colors of every hue, And when my spirit leaves the flesh— 

Then draped the rivers with lilies, May it ever roam and still call home. 

Where the Chesapeake lies blue. This dear old Eastern Shore. 

STEVE WARD. 
Crisfield, Md. 


Page Seventy One 



























of} bos ater od bax ¥0D me 
pew ono sytem 6 tuo Toe a Bem 


Whaat: xoliee NT adyiz oi ews toge ivi 
do Degree a) fe au epniod comud Yo oe xa10! Inomom f 8 Jan 
giite in eonov gunn do Dintios od? oes unl ae Rrente bas wale wi oa. oly 
sew af oft bon lerkad winsbber sant odd Hrncded oft oF reals oemne beer 2 ” Ww 
“hig os asged byad « aedT igual a abaslbors yon onodil . : 
TettaNn yainos ew a bewilen oolssdigeted al oobjol Bae tebitel smessd siewm 
nd off olyud & to ebnvoe sft te9f as alda se" voi. citum alt syods ot | qi ona 
wey ovlt bas aimiqe2 aT ye yeeiaee «lo eqaeoo! gnilfiude ols base unt @ » 
idizivnt deer ont era ocd: laewas vonkw ort no tossed ost dw bsainteg romin 
oH) wi deb! enw avyaty kot le yirtht higle orlt lend twig od no Loaeng rT twfl -borloism 
a1 ligne breed ad Vin bLluo» snist dyueords Led alt eesladnavel haw at to 
weno bot « bebrrel widoigel radinns. vial doen A arn) “eee 6) nomi, enw . 
‘fiote mea ahr ylseioog bled o¢ 
mon wil teal wigeeT acoq op bolieoth aonien yiavs seated yal ton cow a 
Hand brob oti ine inaoqe mre od dip date yevoove cond .botmmed 2ew Sasens 
armalilo idiervai veld ast Page aly berry devas ‘dsp enigmeD So » : 
Viesbhi ac Lotleiney eayit Sele ond tiie o TA goo loomera Rrke vliteul bas bats 
oft Zhned to univelq of} Line aod nll omi fis) sible: of T -horssqqa vods 2p 
yal of? 19 bodvem yrs rotary sal} 22'yud to wecld ond baw amitb to aniees 
momulnl bigwot 34 


got A ved “be mart Lalulapal) 4iT” mati igre 


cml! bax Tl! sey Detootk Mgt leven # «i Rao ct] hedulogall ont. vy 
Halt WIs0eT Te De odes tao devi ete *-shealal ans. to woated” oil! an 
Ri | wo) fo Soft) a2 wo? fh “(ias po hee #13tlas Haiiira ai) ban rar Jo "9 > 
Mery i Termipbal ay tos Welt Sp Ip Teste ad) bolvihetg asmodT 
Wits) 8 new nae Avie ab dobwig Seiad? dal) io avitsirta gotriite 6 at 
add Juuad Hite dellint? berasion aiff fo MAVEN Useoda os tou 10 wihtiedW 
Ht Oo) Olina 4 Hl Jen ee ow send edd Yo 


—TAORE CURTAES SUT 


borvlelait eow! tesl Je pedwa —ii ange beltate ai 
awit soldion qaltoal lek TO? depermngy vce 
ov tuetie wl Mel dott aay toeg diw ate e 
nion ey io esltaded af) aiplalt 207 esnlil bas ose, 
reviie iiw adel edd ten 


ites (lide eo ef) gadw ton wondlt vo'e bon we 
wt 


S01 “tt uv4-evad J ada oft 
—vit listed 19's jatw wogat T- a yiicd 


“ontq lise analy aides 2 
20: dae bie r+ leony yaad! 
>to = davooit +8 Ryo 
lao atl) 2avgat ibis in 
smed iles ite has haat 674 
hMie core hl veoh. 
CUMEN s95tre 
SM .blolinizD 








i= 


orn ra 
‘tld S08 doe 


on yinewa? sy69 


Cr isfie babes continence 


MYTHS & STORIES OF OUR FCREFATHERS 


We often wonder what was here before we came. From iales told, which have 
passed from one generation to another, we learn maay interesting things of facts about 
the people who lived in this part of the country before the white man came—for this 
land of ours was once the home of the Red Man. We suli find their arrow tips or darts 
and other stone weapons buried in the mud near the banks of the streams. 

A story is told of the early settlers. Among them was a minister who won the fairest 
_ princess of the tribes and married her, according to the white man’s customs. Their 
descendants still live in our midst—on the same spot where the tepee or wigwam once 
stood, and adhere to many of the traits of this almost forgotten people. 

Another story is 2s follows: The long winter was drawing to a close, when, one day, 
there came to the home of one of my ancestors, an Indian Brave, in all his painted glory, 
with staring eyes—sunken, like two dark pools hidden in a forest—-reflecting only too 
well the untold story of hunger. Pointing over the frozen river, which he had crossed, to 
the banks of the wooded shore on the other side, he made his host understand by signs 
and with the usual gutteral “ughs” that all his people were without food and were 
starving. He was asked to enter, but he sadly shook nis head and again, by signs, told 
that he must return at once to his people. Food and drink were supplied. He refused 
to eat until a sleigh, drawn by oxen, was filled to overflowing with ground corn, salt 
meat and cider. ‘Then, he partook of the food, and guided the white men back to his 
village. The river had been ice-bound the entire winter. No food from the waters could 
the Red Men get. Their corn had given out and the deer had fled—so was the story 
he told—as they plodded along through snow and over the ice to his people. The tribes 
were found huddled in groups around their campfire; squaws with their papooses, braves 
with bow and arrow—ready for another fruitless nunt. When they saw the food and 
drink, they began one wild dirge as it seemed, and circled ’round and ’round their fires 
in a dance to their gods. They were left in a state of ecstacy. 

Not long after, this same “Brave” came back to the door of his “Palefaced” friend, 
and with a smile that is so seldom seen on the face ot this stolid race, threw into the room 
of his benefactor a wild turkey, touched his forehead, as a sign of partially repaid gratitude, 
and then departed. 

Years passed by—then came slavery. Many sorrowful stories are told. One especial- 
ly, (in the minds of all mothers) what seems most brutal, was the selling of a small child 
from its mother. A whisper went from home to home that there would be an uprising 
among the slaves; that they were armed and were going to attack the whites during the 
night. As soon as the report reached the county officer, all slaves were searched, and their 
little huts, which dotted the plantations, as well—only to find a few farm implements. 
The report grew out of a slave girl’s treachery. She had tried to sur up strife among 
the slaves by telling them that they were to be sold and sent far into the South. After 
learning that there was no foundation for the report, in punishment for her act, her child 
was put on the block and sold. Her mind went blank, and she could often be heard 
crooning a lullaby to her lost babe: 


“Look up at me, honey! “To me you’se jes de lubly 
Jes’ one li’l smile. As de white folks ober dar, 
Dey calls you pic-a-ninny, An’ when dey goes up Yondah, 
But you’se mammy’s li’l chile, We’ll travel jes’ as far. 
“T lubs to comb yo’ knotty head “He'll take us up to lib wid Him 
An’ polish yo’ brown skin, An’ wash us pure an’ white, 
An’ see you eat de melon So, what need we to care, my chile 
'Till de rind am thin. If we’re as black as night.” 


JOHN S. HOLLAND, 
Courtesy—Crisheld Times. 


Page Seventy Two 









































sved rhidw cblop estes mov emes 4 
senda asl lo epnidy _oisesomi | 
ead? 1clk--sitins nam sede ont oH ae 
annih mm ei: var sede bal Hess ] 
aman ot ty tid ade aoe 
Perit os now offw ren © rw ang ne 
Wott arom 2nom ome orf wt t 


ili hee 
on benim ona 


lina orks 


; sauitachelie | m90 40 eases a 


6d MMe in prone ots seedebor Neiga® gery, 7 he—prhimn moO ma 
ine; conome? penne di to ehent oO edeytee en or sabe te 
(eh) sno .osdve sels 6 of ¢ ira SS all gral sft 


Mole boning sit Me nom chal id aaateand ver Ww sae to ate’ 
og ylao guitedtinne tout soo) nebbidialveg shel) ows adil oda 

ibistanas bed af reife aa0%y a9NOr sdivea getioT raped te poe 1 90) Hiv 
angie vd Biwtersbet seodd +d ery ad Abie dea 0 anode Babin ste Sand 30 
: sioy bos bunol teoiiw v9 wqasty zit Me trirls “ergy” levathiy leuew sar te iw bate 
; tint .eriger 9d’ nivge hoc bred ale doe vlbre onl ted or cf bole eew SA suv 
boeudst oF fs Levee so donk fees Yeo shjgeq cid o: sono 18 midesy Tea Hf sees 
; Jim: 71203 bao + fitw nnives Jp eh oO Esl fet 20w .acK0 we wash Haiste & f - a 
. zi @) Abed cov otivtw oft hobiy bw aol odt lo doome, od oodT Shee 


blans srovew alt crott bool of sniw oieiee Se bauedes fod bed HR ST 
. era only ese ar—toll bel qoal, oft be tat mori bed ates tefl asy ne 3 
iT: R. wob arid feuood la £ bbolq poe 
: MITT} si Sipe) 20) 6. Bol Sri WS Lae Witte iiuc 7 WN te) youl 2: ° ™ 

yrijeel aoe ae HN wce gan ee mines woe? hier vigony ol halbbud® t re 
. ag Land ot vee yorb od’ sal eel vilions 1383 thax—vwone bess 


vl tial banov bee baem’ heb han ieee Fi en ogni Bliw ono negod out f 
(hey io gi fit rte wow vadT 2bog tisd 6) sonal 

babi “hestole?" sid ) ocho Aagd ates “overt” ome zit atte gnol A 7 
fTieny) 4) oh werk may late euly te att “rll nO Haw stobice mR a darks. slisne o slsive be 


t 


ty! Mn binaat veer 10 44 GPO Leadlayat earl Geel ed esaliu) boliwe & os > 


cbonssab a te 

ea lui ronan yOmtA ceyele ora wols— 1K 
hick Wh elo yatilor olt oo v load Ratti rtelw (2eecec fle to.cbaien 4 
morse os ot blverr over: abet oereiehoe Giger) deveer wyeso A anaes 
vw geruh eilw ol) etn ol goloy gee liieg Doren ax yods sath seevele seb 
M1 Lit bein dew Poole vate phan Sat bison reoyn oli en vera 
Histinyas! sayhi Yoh a bart 3! tao bheyeay can wpensinslg wis haneb toivdion 
yaone sink quawe oat fay bg wl? eyodlonsys hy vvole ce dy tu 

mith .iuwor ‘=f eri: Te te hee bite Se oF 25% com ters amity 


£ 
+ 
~ 
bal 
be 
~~ 
a 


Blirls wet .oe sod ql aL aiEoy litle VE aa eh) ott ot novinboruat owl “ow ovat) a 
. bread od mujo thuns oe bur lobed — Lonticrs nH Lior bas Avobl sdf 
» 
Shee awh “! Lidge ab aah a a wed all 
; ab wae aig aide ‘ak ; 
dubuet ar +t Cyl) re nA 
TAY eb ‘nol Joven Weyer atids I 
saat] Syke, ELL est ape dear aida eH" had 
odie ‘te wut aa HAiew “IPA. ft 


Bilise Zt Pye oo) OVE eet Teil .OB) 
“Hinid en donid ao stew 


U4ALION & VO] 
aol bistlein>—yesnveD 


Cr is fie [ele Continued 





a: ig 
AG : 
f she aes 
p is 
t ea = 
I i «re 
F 1 ‘ 
: 
a qe 
5 or" 
E ee 





cont seammuper imme oer ; 
se i ee. 3 Re RE 
REM oe re SS TRS eee Pe C2. we ees 
Uh co neces, 1 ae sence tegen mets at an RN til — mabe a> wamneoe cms sees 2 Seana =< rng} 


THE CROW’S NEST 


Far from being a crow’s nest, this stately old homestead, still hale and hearty tho 
well over 100 years old, is one of the most delightful places imaginable. The property 
of Mr. I. C. Sterling, (Uncle Lum) who has lived there for 83 years, it has always been 
owned by the same family. 

The last occupant before Uncle Lum, bought it from his wife’s family. This pur- 
chaser, by the way, was the second husband of the first owner of the property; all of 
which provides a very interesting little story. The first owner was brought home sick 
by one of his friends; the illness was fatal, and in due course of time, this good Samaritan 
married the widow of the man whom he had assisted to his home. The widow, who 
must have been a very charming woman, had six children at the time of her second 
marriage. Of the second union four children were born, and despite the fact that she 
was thirteen years her husband’s senior, the couple lived happily together for many years. 

The Crow’s Nest was originally part of a land grant to one Benjamin Somers. It is 
now occupied by Uncle Lum Sterling and his two nieces—Misses Gertrude and Harriet 
Somers. The house is filled with many beautiful oil paintings—the work of Miss 
Gertrude. A sister of Uncle Lum is now in her 94th-year. The lawn is adorned with 
beautiful shrubbery—many rare plants and trees, and giant boxwood: bushes—long past 
the age of 100, lend a Colonial touch to the spacious lawn and flower garden. 





A LEGEND OF OLD SOMERSET 


In the year quiet reigned on land and sea. There was a lee—after wretched 
days and nights of the horror of warefare, and one could lie down in peace, knowing that 
their scalp vantld be in the same place as on retiring. Folk went abroad on horse back, 
roaming the forest and fields. It was the passing of the month of Thunder Moon that a 
drought lay waste the fields. Vegetation died, feathered songsters drooped for the want 
of water. Cattle sickened. 

On the estate of Capt. was a well where one could see the springs filtering 
through the side of the moss covered brick. The fame of the old well was known far and 
wide. -Travelers stopped to quench their thirst and water their steed. A fragment of a 
once mighty tribe of Indians on their way to the famous Black Water River (Pocomoke) 
where the water freshened when it ‘reached inland, stopped to ask for water from the well 
to fill their bottles of skin. 








Page Seventy Three 





ois 


LSS 5 oa 
T2av 2WORD JHT 

om} vines! bha alan Ife be steountod | bfe dlanm sheds Pe 7 6] “wor 5 gaind mond 4 

maxing aT theater aly lr taeligitshs. wit sily le snd xt blo 6sy 001 seve fh 

ned cyowls cnt a esney F% vol oroeld beovilenil aber (ed sb) otha O ta 

thrant serve ody yd 


we atl vlc) ety yl trond gh igual yomad salon sxoted Insqinne nal oT S 
ia Se viedo alt Je awe cent a 1p Daedead bacee ssly etwjyew ord wd 

































JCMS, JEM. 2) WH wid oll wore aliget ynUsstoIN voy & 7 

nmenmce bouy wi pont lo sewn ath ap pen lese) enw zesatli ods :ebnond aid Jo oe 
on vobow ak oerorl ef ot Detean ti ad modw ceo ol) do wobiw sAftheae 7 
D4 id ta git ony is toler 2 Beal ieee gotaneds srsy eigesd oral me 

le veel “eth Loe coeds peblils yet soiaw: baose sds 10) : hi 
my (ohn sol eyo vinquul bowl ghyaty sap pense basdend ad ensy ase il} ea 


A eae sie soo Ting bent £46 neqivilomne dew 12971 a wore Aye 
abit enul’—.rme Oa od tne gmiind ant sba vd borg 4 


. - A 4 ie 
He ometou) he Helene yin vbiw bella a sped sdf 

ier whe eo oAel al iY qarl ah won ¢i ftivu.) sion io asthe A 

maiey path i tmoevor! Iva hee att baeedenhy oom ¢nen—vrsddopele 


~ 

~ 

< 
— 
ue 


nn von avolunge i ot daued lxinalo) « baat O08 to 





‘Tded (M@E CAO WO GAR A : 
srry 39 liar sal) ee hee Hind ne beeuiey TBHP 
el anrvond ober si ievab «fl bhves oneban elvew to sonnel si dete { 
Aiud seed. no eek, eee A Qtaiot ates sgely sew ody ab odbc 


bin eel, whiniad iy aimee oy to, ayer oft 452: 31, ular bine, ant. oi 
new ant tot bs jOor> eToday teu bornirest Aveth hannrege ¥ bhaalt ah at 


ghia i TALS i 992 ty Wy ait ade bye. w ew a. . YY, kc * 

ban it) pvrood ener Mow biol? wy ae oe oAlyind lass 2640 oe ee ) 40 
6.10 tab) 4 | bee tier Tone Kiew wind tide Aap ot . 12 T~ ot 
faders Tl) soe oll ar tj wh ar ogen vinll f : r : 3 Vinew - 


How sft nwa) ont jel eg ot lo quunte eile Ades h Woy. rit soe 4 WN ova 
; 5 beeitl stake 1 


7 
| od eee 


ae 


Cor isfie lid: = pesunicd 


The master ordered them to move along. His little doughter overheard her father’s 
refusal, ran after them and brought them back te fill their bottles with cool water from the 
well. They continued their journey to the river. On account of the intense heat and 
drought an epidemic of fever raged. The little girl was a victim. Grief stricken parents 
and servants kept vigil, waiting for the end. 

Suddenly on the still night the soft beat of the tom-tom was heard. Capt. was 
very angry and again was about to order the Red Men to move on, when the tender hand 
of his wife pointed to the sick child. They watched from the window to find out what 
these painted warriors wanted, and saw them sit down in a circle about the well asking 
the Great Spirit that the life of the child be spared. To the muffled beat of the tom-tom 
that was kept up all through the night, until the crimson gold rays of the sun pierced thru 
the pines, that looked like sentinels. There was a tiood of glorious dawn above the trees. 
The Great Spirit had answered their prayer. The iittle girl would recover, the crisis 
had passed. These silent friends of the little girl crept away. Their mission had been 


fulfilled. 





JOHN S. HOLLAND, Crisfield, Md. 











ERP 





aoe4 
wait! 

iis 
ite. 


v 
albeit ST 


4 
/ 
es 
et 
saat 





. 


lH 


‘ 
k 
i 
f 
r 
* 
* 
wf 
% 
? 
H 
re 
® 
& 
ki 
} 
i 
i 
r 
& 





MAKEPEACE 

Makepeace was built by John Roach, immediately following a survey of the property 
made in 1663. The building was occupied by the Roach family for a number of years, 
and then passed by purchase to one Robert Moore, who in turn sold it to Jacob James 
Cullen. It was owned by the Cullens and their descendants until the third generation, 
after which it was sold to Capt. Elijah Sterling, whose son Luther inherited it, and whose 
widow, the late Mrs. Mary Chelton, occupied it until her death in 1936. 

It is now owned by her sons—Edmond and Elijah. The families who have been 
connected with Makepeace are the Roaches—Gumbys, Atkinsons, Cullens, Cheltons and 
Sterlings; all prominent names in Somerset county. 

The glazed bricks used in the building were brought over from the mother country. 
It has immense chimneys, with fireplaces at both ends of the building. 

When this old mansion was built there was an Indian settlement across the creek 
composed of three hundred or more members of the historic Pocomoke Tribe, and Make- 
peace derived its name trom an Indian Princess named Manoka—which means “Make 


peace.”—contributed by 


KIRK STERLING, Crisfield, Md. 


Page Seventy Four 


aa a a ae RR OO a) oe 


his gene ens 





nie cree cameramen 


anette 















yond vod brnsehie sc yotdegete. 
ah wot} TaN lone die ea ait 
bis trad semmiey oil? to srootse p.: 
esetoteg itodaitty Tain  ripenis 6 een by 


Sviz tH o8 dd tA Mieneeiiatinda oat 
aa : ) : oe ae 

att bogr wh te 3 

- 23 10l yee 


ve! a, 
ee —— gn) .Drasd cow nO-erot SAF To dexd Toe ols wom ; a ¢h 
: teria: : rere, 


»! 













“A 
Lewd vatines! ody coasts ‘fo oon ot ald, BA oth wake 03 mols. ‘ 7 
jathy sue ban or pobprd ads ino barlyticn went bliss dota oalt 
utides How ode toode aloriy 5 reno te mod wee Low .bonew 
mormor afy to jepl tolflum at of distiate xi bhido ots Yo off 
exuly laataigy fire ott te ah how aoreiy ot finery Anyi ody 
eo473 38) svods niwah euonealy io Leste hGH stl ebsriserse Au ; 
zi4ht> wit 4veteos, few ia stil aT Boma viet Pooweng bed tinige 
n99d bal noteitn andl pap pas Nix alivif ors 20 sbusint inalie sea0 


WM lth YA LION 2 viior 

























TOAAWHAAM 


wareolin? vistmbérn) tdenet adi 1d ihieed eee | 
aT oy fired) ybeod ode “a baits ad unibligd wiT tx 4 4 
main) Unesl aon bine pron aa rao ayedatt sen 61 welling ed borane eal’) 
(MONET besarf 2 Jeng Alacbre rah revel beans enaliy) ort? vd bonvre 4 ew t 
on ban Jc heist roduc gee gente uniliet deg: | 298°)-ot blow dabsiaie 3 
FO) oy neh rma Tone 7) besingaras«s HOD wrt 04 gail okt ‘veil 
a sabi oa yay ll a hitota-—se x34 ed nten eme a 
bak enatiatD sill) nner Ue —rwhscod oly oe asad ith Bh oer 
YNtWOR Meteo? 4) epee : . Me h 
Cer VaR 37 sate Iiguend ie Kitbhied vas tow adond es ee Tt 
-puabhienel seht to thas ited: erealnit. dive jae ; 
oa alt eenog Soorislpe: aotlinbune alee see Aiipel ter fein qe , 
sell Lia aint Dato some srlt ; "| : wons ‘is ae : - 
tel encan did cdewinl Berlin. neous L rshud ay ton amcucei bespiesly! r 
f r 


» ; yt 
SM bine OMLIATT. AMA A © 


IA oy To yor 


. . 4 
} Myaetis7 ‘ 14 






1 
4 
° ‘il : 
eta 
i} } } fas - of 





, e 6 
Crisfield 
PHILOSOPHY & REMINISCENCE 


Surely, de good Lord visits Somerset 


In de early spring, 
When de cherry trees are bloomin’, 
An’ de early robins sing. 


For de new earth smells o’ sweetness 


Dat is holy to de touch; 


An’ I know de Lord loves Darkies— 


Dat’s why dey’ve got so much. 


Now I’s a poor old nigger 
What is drawnin’ nigh de graye, 
But I loves my Eastern Sho’ lan’ 
*Cause I wuked here as a slave. 
An’ I ain’t got no complainin’ 
Of dis humble life o’ mine, 
Wid its sunshine and its shadow 
Dat I’m puttin’ down in rime. 


My Ole Massa was de finest 
Dat ever owned a farm, 
An’ de colored folks all loved him 
For he never did ’em harm. 
An’ de nigger buyers travelin’ 
To de South thru Princess Anne, 
Could never tempt Marse Henry 
To sell one colored man. 


An’ den dere was Miss Lizzie— 
Who was sweet as honey dew, 

In fact, she was most an angel, 
Just puffect thu and thu. 

She used to call me “Elzy,’’ 
An’ to wuk for her was joy— 


’Cause she had de whitest manners 


For de darkest colored boy. 


Now when de evenin’ shadows 
Steal across de Eastern Sho’, 
And creep in thu de windows 
To paint de cabin flo’, 
Dey make de tear drops sparkle 
In dis ole darkey’s eyes, 
While he strums upon de banjo 
Dem ole southern lullabies. 


Marse Ford’s long gone to Jesus, 
An’ sweet Miss Lizzie too, 

An’ soon I’s goin’ to jine ’em— 
Maybe ’fore de season’s thru, 
For de good Lord visits Somerset 

In de early spring, 


When the cherry trees are bloomin’ 


And de early robins sing. 





Continued 


LITTLE ARBUTUS 
A Song 
ih 


Little Arbutus, fragrant Arbutus, 
Hiding your modest heads 
Neath leaves and mold in the woodland 
old, 
Where my beautiful love lies dead. 
How often together in bright spring 
weather 
We have hunted your blossoms sweet, 
Where pink and white you blushed out of 
sight, 
Neath the dead leaves under our feet; 
I know you must love her growing above 
her, 
For your radiant faces show 
You have not forgot the time and the spot 
Where we plighted our troth long ago. 


Chorus: 


Little Arbutus, fragrant Arbutus, 


(Ford) lHarliest blossoms of Spring, 


Of my love and I in days gone by 
What memories you bring. 
I only pray that some glad day, 
Somewhere beyond the skies, 
In bright Spring weather we may pick you 
together, 
In the gardens of Paradise. 


9 
oO 


Little Arbutus, fragrant Arbutus, 
Your tiny sweet faces seem 

So coy and bright so flushed with delight, 
An emblem of youth's sweet dream. 

But the bunch that I press to my lips today 
Is faded and withered and dead, 

A mate to the one that lies hidden away, 
Under the casket’s lid: 

But the roots come through when sunshine 

and dew 

Come wooing the yvoung green sod, 

And I faney she’s planted Arbutus to grow 
In the beautiful Gardens of God. 


KATIE M. QUINN, 
Crisfield, Md. 


Page Seventy Five 















































eIT IAL AITO 
yuuee@ A 


P we er a 
I ca ¥ «tt 

apace seotpel udm Ini amsaroows ‘O 

thied 1-siom! ang . 

bnaihaox of) wi blom Bre gonad et pelea 


bio... TOUT of lou a7" 
boob ¢6tt evel intend cap 
autiqge jadalid 4 1 Fane z Tayule hf 


these Tats Ob Agla ‘ai 
oowe Boromenhd ae? he ned avad wy ‘mal ‘oe ave 
to Ito Hedeuld wor stitiw bap a aren Ww vale & a8 919d 
‘Malalqrros ou the. 


i947) Wire Thaw e467 nol fins ab 4 f egitim ‘oa shit 
"woln wniwoxe ‘tot evel mans “uy wond 1 vobade ati bas enh 


ted onli al awob Perea 
Hote e602 Juelber ie WO : : 
loqe of) bon viii) «ty yom) iy Ve Ae” deenh ob anw ato” 
OBR Btw 8709) 7 fi siiatle ow oped Artal « baawe wre 4 
ait’ bevel Ue edfG) bereloo b “a 
marco? ‘ red ite’ bil teven ed : 
‘alleys eeecded 14 ? 
/uUtA onoyeer) «onde si 2004 seeonlyd wid) din ‘ob OT 
anitos ju sotenelt a (fuet? vast sasalé jqitet yen: io 
sO ecnh-ai T hue avobagn 36 2am berolos ono T 
iff ¥ solloniven % 
vob Dobe vined tt) Cele ee | ——stssil mil asw eteb gs 
eelde Of hanwa own woh <2n0d ep sera aaw ¢ 
4 2g? Jigind ai 4930n O6 leon aww ode 
admger >, vidi boe oe) foot 
ember lo adobeag off ul ‘ania om Ilao oF 
oud éew sod 1) dw ot 
‘ stoaumn teoldow 66 bat 
YP. + 0) an % 200 Go19loe Seow sb 
sar TS Sana 90 dete ewtid 
ive 1 wow? gail sa07 evobsda ‘nlaaye oh uodicdd 
aiteh Wliw fete ne nieied Ae ees oe ote wietees oh e201 E 
Ish 19002 bu, Wo sealers ok evobuiw ob ods at 
bor eqil (itl 0) eotg I ted? dod eds set “O8 cided oh 
heey hie bavaddiw baw fat all oldiage eq07b taet ob 
‘ons wabhiad ear, Jd | "ty ait aT wai A 39S a‘ i 
iti! aredeas off) cabs otosd ob aoqu : ou 
sHifance node Pfesutidt) ones aoe wh 38 oldaligl ave alo 
wap hits, Ad 
Spe dey ahttes oft guile veel of enog WRN: 
FOG Of aetiudth levy xi) * cite ie 


Ane <n aie 
bow Ve eusbuly libre oily 


A4ATID WU AITAR 
HW .ieketi) : 


Continued 





Crisfield 


THE OLD STONE STEP 
BY MRS. SARAH J. WHITTINGTON 


Many the years that have come and gone, 
Since last I looked on the dear old home— 
Home of my childhood—and now once more 
I stand on the threshold again as of yore; 
Many the storms that o’er it has swept 

Since last I stood on the old stone step. 


How vivid the memories now crowding my brain, 
As I gaze on the dear old home once again; 

Time, the destroyer, has left not a trace 

Or sign of the past in the dear old place; 

Nothing but ruin around me is strown, 

Nothing is left but the old step stone. 


Silence and solitude now linger here, 

No sound of a voice or a footstep is near; 

Call, and the sound rolls on, and still on, 

And echo alone answers, all are now gone; 
And thru my sad heart the shadows have crept, 
As I cross once more the old stone step. 


The trees are all gone, and the cool pleasant shade, 
Where oft in the days of my childhood I played; 

The walls are now crumbling where the ivy then clung, 
The windows are shattered where the wild roses hung; 
Its wings are all gone, deserted, alone, 

No reminder is left but the dear old stone. 


Where are my friends, and can it now be 
The dear loving faces I no more shall see? 
This hall by their voices with music was filled, 
Their voices now silent, that music now stilled. 
The halls are now empty, the music has flown, 
There’s nothing remains but the old step stone. 


Their footsteps o’er this stone oft would clink; 
The family chain is now severed link by link; 

Their once active feet no noise shall e’er make, 
They in the sleep from which none ever wake. 
With a sad breaking heart, and eves that wept, 
I laid my head down on the old footworn step. 


This old stone step a memento shall be, 

It carries the mark of a century; 

Time, frost nor floods can never erase 

Those footmarks engraved in its rugged face. 
On my heart thou art graven forever to dwell, 
Old footworn stone, a long farewell! 


Contributed by MRS. RENA C. DAUGHERTY, 
Crisfield, Md. 





VERSES BY 
W. C. THURSTON 


The joy that fills today To write the smallest poem 

With bright and sunny spots, Requires a master hand, 

Is a sign that God remembers But our Savior wrote His message 
And sends—For-get-me-nots. On a heap of shifting sand. 


Page Seventy Six 


-__ 





mornin Ait alb7vii tary iid tie Brie: § - a ioetsy uu ” WoW). Su 














ba Rid ‘aie 
aaa LHARAR 2G 


S02 bor odies even ied? wine ~~ A J 
—orned Do (nh ef) no Souner’ ta 
won Boe wha Bite—-booMbiilis yim 
510% Io un Wada bic aha oil) 
Shane ead 1 19'o Jad? aevtete SMS tnale ¢ % 


‘Gee. 20008 blo ott co boot] Sent ay 


vid (an geihyes wau mcoiment od: bivie welt. oh 
iN Sate wo bio 18h wat avonepleA le 
O01) 2 toa tot aed eyoueob ed) emliT 
007 Din tool of: m taeg off- le apta : oi) 4 
Levis 4: sin buses wet tod yada un ¢ 

7028 Geta blu sf: bod Pal et galdionw ge? 









































4 


2990 toonll woo »buttloe bus eon . 
(ote! detail» ww oviov 6 Yo buves oH. 
WO 112 Bee 40 ullon buuos of} bas fled. 
te wOn Vie Ha .21evens suola ooo had : 
sa79 6FGi ewohtne of: iveed bee een ord BoA 
(jue stidéle Blo eld gin «sao seven 1 aa 


tyre fa.7 


ool) 1009 a1) baa oa ils o1n geet) efT 7 
iolq T Deodbitite vie lo «exab of) ut No medW ¥ 
. / a 7 a : o¢ 
uti ‘vi gt aredve saliduaa #00 918 shaw efT ; 
Ditw od} gpady bewsliades o18 evobalw edT 


‘Ole  Beligee) 0007 He a14 aaalw et! 
ute blo seeh ext! sod Nel af balater oY 


iH deo bee .chbosiv) wa s1an r)etW 

m letle vives “« I geen!) sulvol seb eodT 
nut Miiw a ’ tiedt wa Uaed eer 

sont jew) jusita wou eastoy WeaT 

faite oi .tiqain wea ots alla aT 

ita od? till eciewei anidion soredT 


> 


; Po) oFOtR art 1'’e aeqetajcol tiedT ‘ 
7 val A SV yon pe: si ninds Vita auf'T y 
Lh a2?) Of F049 vires gone sistT 


aoiide wow grate ods ab cont tis 
} .) Dien’ jTe94] 2 iol hes « diwW é 
iete weowipel fle glt-oc avoh haed wae bial b awe 
6 One 
“I lade Clement » asia anole ble nidt my 


; tte) 6 Yo Ate ot? alas nH oo 

OPT? 1979n he eLook wa jet eat 

¥ % Gai ft wi ff WSteigus edveantan er a 
‘hoOt so 9e4AT feet tre wo) trae va #D 
MY WiNel. adol » .»oute niowion) SO 


TTHAMOSAT DY AMS BRIE eet heledivede) 


(0 saben 
yererittT 9 Ww 
mong teetteme ods atn OF :  ‘tehes i ty 
esa io tenn i ett ae *10q2 roune bine 66 





















Joona subi to gaad «O 4a win jeg te —~e 





| Delmar 


Delaware—Maryland 








Main Street 


As an incorporated town, Delmar is deserving of more than passing notice. In fact 
Delmar is two towns in one. It is about evenly divided between Delaware and Maryland, 
and takes its name from the two states. It was born in 1859, at which time the railroad 
extended its tracks to that point. 


The town has two Mayors, two city councils, two schoolboards and everything else 
in duplicate appertaining to the unique situation of two towns in one—and everybody 
happy. 

State street is the dividing line between the two States, and down its center runs 
the old Mason & Dixon’s line, which has probably been referred to more than any survey 
in the U. S. Delmar has been jokingly reterred to as “Yankee Doodle and Dixie.” As 
early as 1859 there were doubtless some heated discussions between Secessionists and 
Abolitionists, but the years rolled on. In the fullness of ttme the Johnny Rebs died off— 
the Yanks intermarried with their southern neighbors, and now, with the exception of the 
invisible State line, Delmar is all one family. 


The Blue Hens chickens are still loyal to the mother State, and pictures of Robt. E. 
Lee and Stonewall Jackson are treasured by many of the older residents. But the war 
is over, peace abides, and this quiet little city with many charming homes and beautiful 


Churches, pursues the even tenor of its way. 

As to why the town was not built in either one State or the other, no one seems to 
know. 

NOTE: To State Senator S. N. Culver of Delmar, Delaware, we are indebted for 
the information that Delmar’s divided allegiance is due to the fact that the Railroad 


originally stopped at the Delaware line, and homes were built here and there without 
any thought of a future incorporated town. 


Page Seventy Seven 





















- 
oe 


7 
- i 


ey Me re 2m We 
a | “ Po 








¢ 


— _ ae I I a nn ce 


foots malt : 


riety 08th) ower to yeumaeh @ yom wo) beisioqibont as eA 
inlyialy, | revi) novi! bahar yiiavs weda ait ane ot emwol ows a4 
tir atl ont donlw te 08) on ie eee leobete ow? ort mea) omen at aodey k 
tog feds of eaisesd ati bobe 


nivbeerers by Tedinole own gis yrs ows creel ows 2c awor oft o 
ovo bac on su ove) Jo SOHO span ui ot quinine sacilqub : 


ree) | vite OW) sit nogwied sil guibivil ods ai wort ome 
merit conja'or aoe) GnMOAeY Hel eicdw oni) enazitl & pols b 
hoot) ood O° a8 of Dai Yeates ard 2ed rab 2 5 odes 
roe jaws niu h Betta amis 2esbdual aove-orads O28) an Pe) 
ol vented ol oper peel oft gl one bievtlor ryeoy Sal mand atten ilo 
10 toiquers av) ctw wrote Doe hold yisn Mofhene visds Aire botnets ang 3 
-Hinat ono Ue at reemboG .onib ore sk wee 
; le 2 ELE) is) née ,2rite or oen a) ea Teyal Hue 716 ensdvntda sott oul oT a 
va a dealea) oblo oft 10 1th td Tieption an ania Vewsaad bne sal 
witumed bak @omioil grails yeti aie aaa mip aft bac 2abidp. sssq ave) 
MEW <1 105) Kove of) awewug rcbnedl 


O) ative QO Of Sunt alps sab vyeltie bo: tliud ton sew wwor addy ye of 2A > 


~~ 






1? batiohai «14 ow .ewelott compas : 
benlskA of) peut Jou? off) wh anh i % a 
oltie oicth fut vod itl ew oy 


Heye2 yineva? one 


wT 


Page Seventy Eight 


Delmar 


DELMAR 


Continued 





Delaware - Maryland 


Delmar is a town with two faces— 
Nestling on the Mason-Dixon’s line, 
And a dear old homey place it is 
Where everybody’s generous and fine. 


One side lies in bonnie Delaware— 
And the other’s in Sunny Maryland, 
But one side or the other 

Is nome-sweet home, 

And home is always grand. 


To you it’s just a Railroad center 
Where you run to catch the train, 
But we, who know and love it, 
Wouldn’t trade it— 

For “‘Frankford on the Main.”’ 


On either side are splendid schools 

Both modern and complete, 

Where boys and girls with dreamy eyes, 
Make ready 
The outside world to meet. 





And would you think in our town 
Where the trains go rumbling thru, 
That students are winning scholarships, 
Aye, and medals for merit, too. 


We have the usual community Clubs 
That do their bit in many ways, 

And no petty jealousies come between 
To mar the peace of perfect days. 


We are proud of our Railroad town, 
And ready any time to take its part; 
And who can blame a Railroad man-— 
When he says a train—his train, - 
Has the first place in his heart. 


CLEMIE HEARNE WEST. 
Delmar, Delaware & Maryland. 








The Eastern Shore strawberries; 
Are the sweetest that grow. 
None other can equal them 
And this much we know; 
The garden wasn’t closed; 
It moved to the Sho’. 
Transplanted from Eden 
(When Eve lost her flowers) 
Father Adam first tasted 
These berries of ours. 


re ern CAT NL AN 


——_ 


ee Ri — 


+ pee 


—293n) ows dite avo! a@ al 


samniol 
oul mat od) vo gailmeA. 
ut M teellle’ eeenod -bie 129b @ bmA 


e080 ban eudiegeg wybod (eve 


—") eineod ai eel! ebla oaO 
Atnler Yaune al euidio of? bak 
wdlo gift w obla eno as 
.Sittod: joow. 
tama eyewls a net 


199ne0 Daehn a iavl o'r pay we 
land Popeyes Piao o} ae vey ore 
at svol ban wood odw jw 4 
— jt shat? rah 
“ int ef4 ow broldnett" 107 


elooifss Bihwelqe ate shla 29d)le «0 


; sofek 4s bee atebom fio 
2040 yuaeoth ae as hee evod sted W 
—<‘tbeeat oAnld 

Jeet of hiiow ebledwo of T 


owed wo Of Zeid) wor bivew baAé 
oudt pitldee oxcenied off) ated 7 
aq) letalodee Saigitiw ete ninehwsa isdT 
00] Jefe 16? slabem baw eA 


edulD Viieuntias (net of? aved oW 
eqey Uthat al ed ited? oh sadT 
nvow)od oatey siizacias{ eteq om bak 
aveh foulreq jo auneq alt tea of 


awe!t beortiakt wwe Yo buen o1¢ oW 
‘ieq #f eae grt) Yas ybaw bad 
from peelioda « ootuid ash ow HK 
tien ald—fiset « evea od not 
area ald pi dsnlq mA a3 .22H 


Tea WMA SteckID 


baal¢wuelé & erawaledl yoimietl 





iTreivewe od? newed of f 
wong 1G) Meise ott nA 

eeraitt Inaipemes rarlte sao 
wwond we dyuni gids bad, 
lrmals Tra aslacg dT 
Jon? Sit ot bevorn a1 


ie et 
bowe mins. r9beet 
ase Ye ened send TE 























De lm OQ f-———Continued 


THE CHURCBES GF DELMAR 


Once upon a time a well known cynic said that the Usbie was the only book a man 
would be ashamed to be caught reading. A sad commentary on the faith of those who 
profess to believe in the old book from “kiver to kiver.” 

Therefore it was refreshing when a little note came in from Delmar with the plaintive 
’ request, “Won't you say something avout our Churches.” Who could resist an appeal 

like that? 

The Churches of Delmar are not ivy covered—they have all been built since 1859. 
Some of them are small, but they are dear to those who iook to them for spiritual comfort. 
Delmar says “We are a little town of many Churches.” And Delmar is proud of them. 
The denominations represented are six in number. The Methodist Episcopal, the Meth- 
odist Protestant, the Old School Baptist, the Missionary Baptist, the Episcopal and the 
Holiness. 

They have a common faith—they are all hoping for the same eternal home. And 
the fact that Delmar is proud of her Churches is suthcient proof that they are all working 
toward the realization of their hopes and dreaws—sustained by a faith almost sublime— 
that has remained undimmed thru the ages. 

There is nothing unusual about the Churches of Delmar except the fact that they are 
proud of them. The buildings are kept in good repair; they are well attended, but there 
is nothing to distinguish them from the average Church in the average community-— 
unless it is their love—thcir loyalty and devotion to the cause for which they stand that 
led them to pen the little note—“Say something about our Churches.” 

If the Churches of Delmar are enshrined :n the hearts of the people, they were not 
built for show. 

There is around and about them a mysterious something that we cannot weigh nor 
measure. Some invisible power that binds and holas, and sustains them in their hour of 
need. Well might Delmar be proud of her Churches. 

“According to your faith so be it unto you.” Delmar flings her challenge to the world 
and to all the hosts of evil—when she sends her message thus—‘Say something about 
our Churches.” 

This is the message of the Delmar Churches to all the sons of men— 


“To those who mourn and comfort need— 

To every man of every creed; 

To all the friendless who need a friend; 

To all who tire ere the journey’s end; 

To all the.homeless—to all who pray, a 

To all who’d walk with Him the way; 

To all who’ve sinned— 

From Calvary’s hill 

Is heard again—‘‘Whosoever will” 

Finds here a welcome—and open wide 

The door to peace—with love to bide. 

There is a name—there’s only one, 

To this—His Church, He bids you come 

And kneel with us in prayer and praise; 

In the name of Jesus, it’s He who says 
WELCOME To the Churches of Delmar.} 





Page Seventy Nine 





2 
, 



































agen «¢ Aood yluo ol: tew silat ods ight rae nwoud low a oe 
orer eos to dint oft no YEG Caer yiben idguk> 9 
“wid oven" rao! alood blo ah gh 
svidielg ods cdiw iemls ment at seg oom alll 2 node suiderdan ae . 
laoqgqe as rien bluog od\V “astm sid toude gaidesmae ee voy 


281 sone Hind assd Ie seed coed) asaya: ¥" 300 o%86 Ismmiol: to eects 
oti Inuinnge rol reeyhi of Jooi tlw seeds oF iiols nu vod) jud dleowe sa sooty 
fied te phys. ei rernloG bak “enbaudD yom Yo nvwol sinil s & a4 i ane 
toll deqoxqd yibodnlt od f comida ai aie 6 ; 

eo BY 6 ii lage eegad orb) Jeugel yismoerid om aeaqgell foods? bIO ‘als 


baA mer Ieaiate ome srl vol guided tik se eaits—dlsint aomnmes & saved ¥ 
gnissow Ux a = teth toorg anigsaPame: eedoril) 22d to buoy zi tele 27 
sicikdve seorale dzioi « “a boutieue—ewgeah bag zoqun ainrs te novssxilast os 
oyk otf urd bemmibau boniams as: 
soe yors rer iowt ond) xyoo%9 setloQ) be eeedoned) oes vodn leweuau gaidion a oodT 
adi jud .bebasne low se yards jreeget Hoag ai iqsd oe eyniblind sdT coors toh 
{Lunes syetave oct oy thet) ogeove of not mod: deiugeinth os on 
sasls brnte york iba w .ol saeco sdf at noiiosb bar vilerel tiodt—svol tee) a: 37 ele 
“aadwd) avo ipede gnuiemee qc —san sisal ody noq o mods i 
imi 7IOwW corks ole 790 2 10 ain aly Fb benindens TibL inmiol] le wodlnudD ads 
-wode rt | 
a dgiaw songs oe Jer) soidemel euohomngin c mer? tually fing bao a sich 
yowort wads os med! omeree bas plod Sa aba sett owe aldizivai smed 
ulnar ied te hunw od ieeriv selyien tt besa 
bhow at of sgwalluds at eyeilt vomit “aby oni 9) ad ra ad ibroo3 A" 
late t! Hie ene +n , Weer pol ybicites one aolw—-ivry Ve zteorl Pod ia. 


_ 


ie 


ae 


wn te ence os He op eadbtD geqelet) ods to omsazont oleh pe 


Leon Polaos hate quid odwW saods oT 
thevt) 9a0¥s 16 nem trove of 
‘bnoitl) & Deon Ow tee bash) ad) ile oT - 
bas « amined aif 70 dit ow Ue OT 4 
to14 of Ile ol—anploutoi.edi le ot y 
(ow od? met thw Haw D'odw Na of ; 
—buitits 67'odw ia of 
Mid «vrevlaD mova 
“ite yom Rageape ei Lins al 
bi wr cetbepy sev fF na fi ge: : 
ab oF Ove =i a? (ook fT tr 
- ilo shite Bb ianacto Fe hei ove : 
onan tiv ebie eee: H~~elsty a Alls 
eden baa tomate — ea bur 4 
Rete OW poor rate re , 
seth te wale oils : 


ori) yinave® oye 


Denton 


By MRS. H. E. RAMSDELL 


= 


Denton, the county seat of Caroline county, located on the east. bank of the Choptank 
river, was originally named Edenton, in honor of Sir Robert Eden, proprietary Governor 
of Maryland. When Sir Robert failed in loyalty to the colonies, the “E” was dropped 
and the town became Denton, It is a coincidence that the county was named for Sir 
Robert’s wife, Lady Caroline a sister of Frederic Calvert, the first Lord Baltimore. 

The county had several different locations, as well as nemes. The first was Melvin’s 
warehouse, about one and a half miles north of the present site. Here was located the 
Courthouse and a tobacco warehouse, as well as a jail, store, and a few other houses. Here 
great hogsheads of tobacco were received from the planters, weighed, stored, and stamped 
for shipment. Court was held here from March 1774 until October 1777, when Bridgeton, 
now Greensboro, succeeded in having it moved there. Later it was moved back to Melvin’s 
warehouse for a short time, when a permanent location was decided upon. 

Four acres were bought at Pig Point and the name was changed to Edenton and then 
to Denton. In 1790 all the belongings of the county Court were moved to Denton and a 
Courthouse built soon after. The building was modeled after Independence Hall in Phila- 
delphia, and was in use for a hundred years. Just a short distance away a building was 
erected for a market place, where green produce, eggs, beef and pork were sold. Here 
also slaves may have been sold. 

In 1813 a number of citizens prayed to establish a bank in Denton, and the general 
Assembly enacted the proper measure. Denton has three banks at this time. The first 
factory located here in 1835; it manufactured plows. Today the industrial life of the 
city is represented by several canneries, flour mills, a button and a garment factory. 

In the early days it was necessary to open two or three gates to traverse the length of 
Market Street, which then ended at Fifth St. To cross the river, ferries were used as there 
was no bridge. The first bridge was built about 1811. A causeway between the town and 
the river had been built about 1792. This first structure was a tollbridge to all persons not 
residents of Caroline county. 

Sometime before 1860 there was a stage line started between Easton and Felton, Dela- 
ware, with Denton as one of the stops. The first steamboat came up the Choptank river 
before 1850. When the Negroes saw it coming they all hid—tor fear the waves would 
drown them. 

The first Academy was organized in 1826, and was conducted in the hall over the 
market house until a building was erected in 1835. The next building, later used for a 
primary school, is now a Club house. In 1901 a brick high school building was erected, 
which is now the primary school. The present high school building was built about twelve 
years ago. 4 oH i é 

In the year 1801, Quakers living near Denton asked for the privilege of erecting a meet- 
ing house which was built the next year. It was called the “Neck Meeting House,” and 
was used for services until about 1890... It is still standing. 

The first Methodist Church was called Moore’s Chapel, and stood just back of the site 
of the present building. The first sermon in this Church was preached by James Moore, 
for whom the Church was named. It had a gallery for the use of slaves. ; 

Records show that a Catholic mission existed in this section prior to the erection of St. 
Elizabeth Catholic Church, which was built before 1831, the le nd for which was deeded by 
Benjamin, Denny to Ambrose Marshall in 1824. From Bohemia Manor in Cecil county, and 
from St. Joseph’s Chapel in Talbot, Jesuit fathers came to serve the mission. Other Churches 
sn the town are the Methodist Protestant, the Brethren, the Pilgrim Holiness and two 
colored. 


Page Eighty 















































































: 
Anm@qodD ot to daed mes lt on tactnali Iavey elo] to tnoe noawos ee 
IOfIevO) 7IETy Iga fob howtos nz je: mu ne nobal homan t* TiTh Late as us ai 
b epyoab eo “ae ols 2OIOD oly of witeeo! mi bvolixd nado vie nod aod be =e 
H2 yh Lorna ecw ynisoy. ot eld saneaitaaion s2 if ponte 
nocnite bral rit ats pele saetrnT lo r92ie 6 oniloig.). oa she wet 
4 eMivisl4 zew tan olT oman ee iw 2h 2Ronc a Mi stot ith. jarzr3e, bad Liana sate 
oy bam ecw sori aoe tore itp. offi lo rien extimn ilad bas 2n0- ats 
a ee ie an a sista. I on Tw ac revo ios & bne avons 
mri =. ese st « bre .syde tie) pee sw VONDIRW O33 n Mat 
boner bre bso ,borlyrow at aie od aro! bowi eT IW ogaedoa to abaakey 
eutoghsil be SUTL asdesO hone TUE dtel4 mont sted bled exew nua) ana 
ivf, os dond be tated ~ atetlt bevom. n paired ot bobooawe ort 
| aa) ; |, sour gottmel Hi MMI & Maw mretty) rode « yr « 
sf! bot cotfisl j : ; 'y ecw sone wit bas wrin'l nil te triuod 34 cae ot 
i O98 fois oF wey + pro? Vitiuers le ah y ool sel walt ite Oe | al 
; oll ov lied - . robal wtte baller ew o dl wiedT safle node slusd 
ai eee shiase ‘ note 6 Bul .o0w ywiud « ta) RY OL ecw Ste 7 
msi = .bice oraw droog .b (ayo ould woo1y vray ” sonlq ive 2H 
i biog need oval yan eave 
. . fo: aX! «a dned 5 dailies or boyurqg enositis to down 2 CIB al Fs 
2 wid , ; wie een cela LUeKIY TOR ors bys 27609 ida “ 
. i i A. : : fur fins lias 221 fy nod Lomel neim 
oviud & all fm wo nowess leva7w yd baersenqsy. ix 
u dite : . 17-76 OW HYO Oo 4 on cow Ti eyeb xlsns oe} me 
neal i 1ist4 se bolas nods dhsirive Jong fh 
: j (41 suede aie a Mybnd son odT x bnd ont 
t | zi ' . 7, utoitie seu! eal T “Vo 1 qwoeds ihud nood lynrd yore * 
; nue sails to ait sty 
| bai ce outi 3 betw sod) OGRL oalod sens : 2 
-) vine seu0t 2 wl} jo so 26 aorastl di a 
: esti itye § wer, ° 1 38 iyi OPAL» 
sol ee 
bas 254!) a: bexineey ” ymobeok, tev» : 
; f | bisev o@ a $l iu: betsts ecw unlitusd « finyw senor Phin 
pies eboe aul | dond «2 100! al .ved dol 6 won a loortse rece ( 
; te duit vardry ofl viz emng a) won a a: it 
' : oh he 
‘oom & units pric) oft wal bodes opetl qosn jet! msde) 1081 rey ely 
bné “enokl yi if sho | bolte ctw 3) otouv van Sd: Hind eew Asides « f 
abode idee sl ARYA prod: finn eoareyee wi ‘ seu f 
2 2) do deed mtiy Lowie by veya 2 eg belles cov dowd nibodwl mn 
wool4 acre] vl bs my 4 oye? eit ni dnwnw sod ofT -yniblicnd 4 Kigeg ; 
> ie 1 9 oF Wad evallee & twat 9] Jeane thw drut) oals te a 
’ 12 to wntoots of) et 26a epitose 20h te. Bateiey nolein sini «sof walk shines 
4) lobes con duty aol boo sdpg bt) svetad shed eave oad thaudD othoise> ade 
ban otter le otcencl( aieedaibnot Gal a: Ueda mondial, of — inmasl 
evbaud) rod) .nowerte alt 97382 of shay Boel toes! alien hae) + lqaew Ra 
wit! Lee cevtloAl miitgh"? ode ,ttedendl oft nasecatost piltaebealll ads wth one 





Continued 





Denton 
TREASURES ALONG DENTON BY-WAYS 


A by-way is a friendly sort of road—a place to meditate and linger in and visit again. 
Such are the white sand roads about Denton—not the highways but the by-ways, reflecting 
something of the kindly hospitality of the town itself. 

They are leizurely roads that wind about through a garden country where the palate 
is continuously titillated by visions of luncheons in Schraffts, for the fields nourish the 
makings of salads; strawberries, peas, cucumbers, tomatoes, melons, Even the material for 
biscuits and cake is not lacking for acres of golden wheat stand ready for harvest. But a 
trip to Schraffts will be unnecessary for a visit to the nearest farm-house will almost 
invariably send one forth with a full basket. 

So genuine is the hospitality of these folk that one is loath to wander on along the 
roadway. The glass of milk has been so refreshing, the Maryland biscuit so appetizing. 
But the coil of road urges one on to discover the treasure around the next bend. 

And now the way leads from fields to woodland, from sunlight to shadow, from salads 
to symphonies—for here in the woods there is a quiet harmony of sense, especially in the 
early hours of a summer morning when the breeze is freighted with the perfume of 
magnolia, when the dew-swept foliage flashes with a myriad jewels in the long shafts of 
sunlight and the air is a-quiver with bird-music. Then it is that the spirit, spellbound, 
cries with Edna St. Vincent Millay,—“Lord, I do fear : 

Thou’st made the world too beautiful this year. 
My soul is all but out of me, —”’ 


But new surprises are waiting. An onening glimmers light among the trees and a 
grassy trail leads far back within the woods—an old lumber road cut by the farmer 
years ago to haul out the winter firewood. The age of the trail may be judged by the 
extent to which it has been obliterated. How gently the wild reclaims its own, wooing 
back, the first years with fine grasses and moss interspersed with yellow cinquefoil and 
violets, assuredly a carpet too delicate for mortal feet. Perhaps it is the path to Happy 
Valley and if I wait I shall discover fairies dencing in the moonlight. 

Farther along the trail the moss and violets are replaced with trailing vines of black- 
berry and wild grape, and then again through successive seasons by pink moccasin flowers, 
baby pines and the shrubs of jaurel and azalea. Pass along an old woods trail on a summer 
noonday when the air is warm with the fragrance of pine and wild grape blossoms and 
breathe the breath of Arcady! 

The colors in the carpet of the lumber trail possess the magical property of never 
fading, but only changing dye, for when summer is gone with its festoons of great white 
morning-glories which creep among the pine needles, over the sunken trails, even twining 
abour the trunks of the pines, autumn has come with spirals of goldenrod and blazing 
star and mushrooms of varied hue. In winter, red partridge berries glisten through the 
snow and there are glimpses of delicate fern moss and minute lichens—some, the cladon- 
aea, candelabra-shaped, with fiery red tins, others with the delicate unt of coral. 

Reluctantly I leave the old wagon-track and take my homeward way. But 1 know 
that I may return again and feel confident of the same bounty and friendliness, whether 
it lies within the home of the farmer or among the moss-covered remnants of a half- 


forgotten trail in the heart of the woods. 
; JOSEPHINE BARRY, 


Third St., Denton, Md. 


Page Eighty One 


hvountiaed - 
- he | w reytaaee 
evaw-Ta HOT AAC HOLA 2: wes 


say 
y hittin 
tous tiv bne pit weal bas iusilars. on somley n~—bacn Io pera a 
yaitsofin wyew-yd ods sud alia. ah to0—nomneC! wode zbeort bane ssicw 1 ; 


. sed wre ott to yilgsiqued ylbaiad s 


stuleq ad aroriw ava " obrey be pio dood baie sary ebsor 









































































at) denuen eblod ah rot ,tiadp2enk ematbeil jo anviziv. vd. baaliae vi 
wi leoatera, of) ave poms Awan) tines, 2099 .2isdway 5 webelee eye 
¢ iw = .evied yo! vheor back seo & sblng Yo err26 10! yoidssl om 21 odev bow - 
leotic lirw seuo | mncoa ot ab tary & val vreeeoo—naw ad ilive 2tFies . 
vlee! Nod a diow dined sno bse y 
ao wb i aa onto gah ah ts to vtilatiqéork ont 2) SoimAgs a 
Wis Doelyicté ods uividesrion oz avot esd alien to only of Ps a 
. 1! i Louotk nusenia) oh avoxwtbh oF ao sa0-a9giu beor to hoo a, 
. mort .wobed Inutioue mottghnnlbouws of ebloit marl ebesl ww onl) wor or 
. it mn vlineoges ; a Imi ai 4 sit aboowr ol) a mt vol—sa0nel Y 
i ae yintl #: oxeaw! oy totlw yrurmom wemue «a Joon 
rhe . berry « dw aarlich sprit yavenab ods modi of 
: un mont eae (hw vaviup-m et tin ode heed pile 
asi ob | val : hit insomtY 22 sabal din ee 
“10? tuitiensd oor Shiow ef? eham Ja'yodT - _ 
“im So he i Ue 2) ives YM < 
, sid i Serer of ijovs me Ra oes won 
h ) beor dirt blo imge-2boov od? nivlsiw dond ta) cheal, lem 
“itl Mies vaminw "7 wo lued ot 8 
ry vol stayaldde aso apd si oid of 3 
ui eae : ty oF ny lary if EWES Pests | ods. «he 
"1 ost fepem wi bb aon yee vibarueag | volar 
nh yCmash sort rye fede { shew | Hi ding ratte 
2 ote atelory line ore ovts fiewt od) goon gedquaae, 
: VEE Jt hi eyesst | C frpery heres, atta | bli 2 bar 
hi unola 2eal 4 ini » awe lo edundz * bas eee q a! 
) tO o9iitvget) orl) dirw onew Hvis ort note (eb 
. z : : ‘'ybaotéA is dimond ot 
i) aenzon jinw veivant ol! to toate 20a ab moles it 
: witty #: Tait Rew yo! ah unignaia ylno vid , yaik : 
i ye £1) nodnue oF yeve: elles ong alt woos qoaia doudes eonal ; 
‘abl v2 MFR ofiny aeal aime . soi, oct fo sown 1 
| oybnied ber aniw nl wood bemer to anootdeuem a 
: 12 Wh .oitite : aten by zen wes) atyitst hi eescoul sin viola Lan we 
Bib, ty ortp chow aperin .otst Len (1H i began feckaly Bs 
ores 1 til any ioe ( vt otna hea doo ete ee dies ’ 
1 vi. ibtyeend lat woe see tl Io probes ‘So! ba " avira 


Und) Leve7 220e 3) SHOE 10 rernill wht Yo ores oily ai 
ebouw di Te mead ods ni a 


Las, 


YASAR ANAT 
LM not] 28 WHat bead 






99 etdgid ill | 
oar —_ 


3 De n to ft-—-Coxiinued 


DID IT EVER OCCUR TO YOU? 
Dedicated to the 
DENTON JOURNAL 


Once upon a time a stranger 

In a strange land 

Walked with weary feet 

-The streets of a city 

hat knew him not 

And cared less. 

Sick at heart with that malady 

Which attacks the stranger 

in strange places, 

He longed for old friends 

And familiar faces. 

He missed the triendly handclasp 

And cheery greeting of those 

Who loved him despite his faults. 

Seeking consolation— 

He wended his way 

Among the hurrying throng 

To the post office 

And asked for his mail. 

Thru the grated window 

The obliging clerk passed out 

An oblong package wrapped in brown 
paper 

And tied with ““O, N. T.” 

Eagerly he broke the wrapper 

And unfolded to his delighted gaze 

The DENTON JOURNAL, 

It was only a small-town newspaper, 

But it was a good paper 

That told about calves for sale, 

And carried advertisements 

Of saltfish wedged in between 

Marriage notices. 

But it was a clean. paper— 

Filled with the little homey things 

That touch the heart 

And make life worth living. 

It brought home nearer 

And revived sweet memories 

Of days gone by. 

The stranger smiled 

And hummed softly to himself 

A little tune 

As he tramped the streets 

With lighter heart. 

And all good impulses that kept 

His feet from straying— 

Came crowding back, 

Because his home paper 

Came in the mail 

Wrapped in brown paper 

And tied with ‘“‘O. N. T.” 


Wa C.oDHURSION: 


Page Eighty Two 


BOXWOOD 
Oh, grand old boxwocd, 
Steunding sedate 
On the last remopant 


- OF an old estate; 


Do you sigh, as you stand 
So patiently there, 

For the hoop-skirted ladies 
With powdered hair; 

The gallant lads 

With their steeds so fine; 
The music, the dancing, 
Laughter, wine? 


Perchance, instead, 

Your memory dwells 

On the enchanted tinkle 

Cf silvery belis 

On wintry nights; 

As aown the lane 

The merry parties of sleighers came 
With cheeks aglow 

From a dashing ride 

Far over the snowy country side. 
And when summer moon 

Bathes the earth with light, 

Do you go back 

In memory’s flight, 

To the limpid tones 

Of an old guitar, 

As on the river drifting far 

Down the winding, sporting stream 
The lovers floated, 

in moon mellowed gleam? 


All, all, are gone, 

And you stand alone, 

Hearing the airplane’s muffled drone; 
Or the impatient honk 

Of a hurrying car, 

Hushed. is the song 

Of the old guitar, 

But still you grow proudly there 
Bathed in the same sweet smelling air, 
The moon is as bright 

As in days of yore, 

The same wild birds 

About you soar. 


In winter, you wear 

The same mantle white; 

In summer, the flowers 

Are unchanging bright. 

It must be with all of these; 

And your beautiful ancient memories 
You’re able to stand with dignity— 
The symbol] of stability. 


CAROLINE PHILLIPS REDDEN, 


Denton, Md. 


ee ci arene tn ie etsesneindnriebenneeuesni ccna sine enn ARREARS eStats en 


i ee eee 


bM .aoiastl 
























jatates big wh 
huste Hoy ea dale 


tom? YI a 
esibal be jtide-qood 
,tiad bows 


; ebal jillag 
jou os abeota thea fat 
@nigneb off clea 

« Tosiw ,1oMt 


Deeien sonmmdyet 


cllowb qromenr inov oe 
oliatt betuatsde & elohnsd Ubasly ait I 
vied we seo} 
wisia wie gO Sinat aid esigaab 
suel walt awoh aA = 
omtso siedgiel: lo sityaq Tris o IPN 
ian -atords antyrunt at 
obit quidesth o ute? svito 
obin Yano twous s4).19870 Waa tisar zit 102 
iat 7 wobatw betary 
ROV iM 7S uh Ue iotw bad igo hoxanq ECE} go 


dul! Ajiw divas any e2asna twiid ai bequaye aagadonq 
doad of poy ofl rede = 7 

tdgllt ayreniiam iT “\T % .O” ditw bat 
«eo! biqntil of? oF Toque rw sift stay. off 





























‘ottea blu ae YO a ie 
182 yurisIiah oul he 108A en nee kvanbe races aoa af 
gitsiie BAdliIode ,adibalw mh age ithatietelcdemmens a vine a 


bordel Aaveb ant. 


: b a 
Turmoly bewollow oom MM alee vo} | ving tenance 
9805 one tte TRA alneevelsig¢ bab 
oaola haute voe bik Udew tu » 


s00th heltWum weanlarla at antredH 9 
dau ioatpeqae of? 10 —Tsqag aesls be 
io paieriad @ 90 eal) gomod olsll oda dilw, 1” 
anue oft al Dade Siac ett ae ’ 
iiiien Ho of 10 nivit dAtow allt seo 
sian? ylbuoig wire wert Hite pO W1ben omod 
(116 gotliease toowe sew of) - al fodgell “home joows 
iilyias an ab doo of? _. a 
ot to ayeh al holiga 
ebule Diw® ofeke & Weenmid oF dios 


thie ot t20dhA 


teow to¢ sebitow af 
dv slinnam ane oat 
ero vod ot) 1eadtimal 
tdaiad anigesiony ath 
, eee po Geb dare ont: Basie 
amomeant Hehe tel wel) wee 
--ipgih dytw bate 6f alia 


wiidem io tenebectiza cS) 
“AIGCHW BLISS WALIGRAD 


Denton 


“AN ARTIST IN LIVING” 


In and about the lovely little town of Denton there is much of which the people 
are rightly proud— the natural beauty which is hers, the traditions of an honored past, 
promises for the future. With a pardonable pride quite maternal, she flaunts the achieve- 
ments of her children, who “rise up and call her blessed.” 

One of these is Sophie Kerr, the novelist, to whom Denton still is home. The rormance 
of “Painted Meadows” is not one whit more interesting than the human interest story of 
Miss Kerr’s own life. Both romance and heroism figure in the long years of work and 
study that marked her upward climb to fame. 

Her publishers describe her as “An Artist in Living; what greater art could one 
acquire? On the outskirts of the town, reposing in quiet dignity, her childhood home is 
pointed out. Carefully preserved against the ravages of time, and surrounded by the 
arbor vitae and holly hedges planted by her father, the magnolia and judas trees still 
flower in fragrant profusion. 

Unspoiled by success, this gifted writer loves it all. In the world of letters her 
place is secure and, in her heart, there is a place no less dear—the hometown in the green 
land along the Chesapeake that will ever prize her famous daughter, Sophie Kerr. 


Continued 








AN OLD MILL AND AN OLD TOMBSTONE IN OLD CAROLINE 


One of the most interesting things I was taken to see on my visit to the Shore last 
week was an old mill on Linchester Lake, near Preston, once known as Murray’s mill. 
It was built in 1681 and is still operating by water power from the lake and from Hunting 
creek. In a great flood some years ago it was washed away from its original site on the 
far side of the lake to its present location on the near side and was set up and put in 
operation again right where the flood landed it. The old mill stones and cogs and grind- 
ing machinery are still in use, and the day of my visit Miller Langrell was grinding both 
corn and wheat—and, ah, what a fragrance filled the dusty atmosphere floating up and 
lost amid the dark beams and rafters fastened together with wooden pegs! 

As we passed on to Preston from our visit to the mill a pause was made to show me a 
tombstone reclining near the road that had been rescued recently from a nearby swamp, 
the inscription showing that it was the tomb of Sophia Dickinson, grandmother of Charles 





Dickinson, who was killed in a duel with Andrew Jackson in Kentucky. Beeb, 
THE LADIES’ AID SOCIETY But He did not call the angels 
Of Denton And send them down to earth, 
No, He chose a better way— 
When God had made the world— He knew a woman’s worth. 
And rested in the shade 
Of the trees that bloomed in Eden, And there in lovely Eden, 
Ere the earth knew plow or spade. As He rested in the shade, 
. He designed a task for woman— 
He looked upon the firmament— . There was born the Ladies’ Aid. 
The twinkling stars and sun, 
And knew there yet remained From that great day to this 
Great work that must be done. They have nobly played their part, 
And God, who loves them, knew 
He knew that potent forces He could trust a woman’s heart. 


Must strive with might and main, 
Where man had lost his paradise 





And when comes the final reckoning— 


To bring him back again. With hosts in white arrayed, 
Close by the throne you'll find ’em. 
He needed loyal helpers— For God loves the Ladies’ Aid. 
Strong, brave, and unafraid, 
Who would give their hearts to him— W. C. THURSTON. 


Willing, cheerful, undismayed. 


Page Eighty Three 



























































‘goog ody unde Me doen a 

Jeaq, boroned ma To enomibav . 
ovvition od cenurnlt ode dnserst A | &q 8 

a mt tis. has qn sit” oni 

wenden wf! ood 2 Tike manne cvotlys @) tetloven: ody mod 3 

™ Jo nme wowin oemud a edd yoieonesord tidy one'tod 2h "% 

ban drow to mney gaol orb ot omg@ attioned bre seme doll a 

| ame) @ devils brswaw, york ba: 

210 blues Ne 3eIy ae *- otal ai mind cA” ec wd sditaeeb catia st 

“u omod boodbhiis id .ynegth miup gi gatéoqy: sw v08 sit Jo enidenio sd nO on 

wi) 4d boeboworive bate sett to. -2yayte ~ aisye bovinest lito) m9 

ie esow zehaj bee silongnen oe 1306) 3 1 vd botaclg raybarl yllod bas. a yh : 

-nevruliong Ine ' 

toi awel jo bh iit ol the ge aswel andiew bovine aide zed yd waliog r 

: AeA wil me oWwealorn —IESO Ree ott soLiq & 2 ~" i psd yor al bas: 23 

mA sidgoe astdguaob Mite we ving tvs tin sek saeogneed oh goals 

7 od 


MIIORAD GIO Al AMGTAAMOT GIO VA GUA LIM pres 


_ Rg me 





nod jl : 90] if oo om a) rede we 1: if ninile sI3Ini Lom si3 Yo 90 
“venuld es wend +4 Jrutest) aca ods! xioresrloail ao im blo us a 
; i : { ‘Wty Iie ve) Briikisge Sie ei Loe [Rat at diuge 
| ae pro ai moi yew bork egw If ops war smnoz booll JEITy au a en 


oh ; r teem » yeoa of foe nore 1 Sey 23 i, a ode! on to : 





i a « Yo 
aol a babacl boult ot sadw ddgi aisge ee 
ace] TotllA aeiv yet jo yeh at) bow seu ai (lie nn nonidoee 
Ay etl sont o wdw .de on—teodw ‘be p 
rHim@uet easiest cain bas ernasd Aiab orl) bi a x 
wi YY ; Shae litt S47 OF Rare qwo eriotk norman of ne bosesq owe A 
. . ‘ bust need bed. per) beer ods BT Mit | gasilsdr on DASE 
Cl piling to dens od) enw ti sede yao: nodaiamt 
nevdanl wavhew, dybw foub « ai bollid sew onde? Onl 
: oe — _ Je _ 
7 ih ot aed YTUMGe Gh eae a oi 
hate hath perqutrl HW 
ia ah | it ay “sg 
wo werd OB bivow ods oben bat boD angy 
soba te -off nt boteot BRA 
eS siavol uw) ayant? boA Heb’ ai beineoid Pee epee) | ws 
hude« b i (H ah ibage to welt woud are 9 
neioa - 300 gfeub 9H 
f a n* av great —tno mary ot) sti plod 
Lia b 8 fiGelA ae a At 
“witht af tit erm Lar ares ® MST 7 atop vi 
tai 9 ') usrtaie Vide vad volT edub “vl yen tH saul 4 re ta i 
+ vod hol) awent ow BOO bak 
fon! @ ena mau bh a aera wetog f 
Hien bao tei 
-ailucdvo lon 643 sare golly Dak -—veilbeteg ah 
bevatie wildw no aead ay 4 ’ oa 


os bed Toe? ooond: wh) cl dad 
{ ‘sutbnl oft aveet ba sot 





MOTCHUAT .O WW 





. 


: Ee titon 


REFLECTION 


When the mists roll back 

From the river, 

And the sun comes crashing thru! 
’Tis then nature’s searchlight 

Is turned on my neighbor 

On the farther bank, 

I see her little home— 

Its cozy porch—vine covered; 


-The line of clothes 


Already out to dry; 

Her cows, her goats, her sheep, 
Her new planted shrubbery; 
Her boat held securely 

At its tiny mooring place; 

And then I hear the guineas, 
The turkeys, the chickens, 

The ducks. Hark! I also hear 
Tne voices of children; 

Yes, they are coming out 

To do their simple chores 
Before they start to school. 
All is security! 

But what does my neighbor see 
When she looks across 

At my dwelling place? 

Solitude and orderly monotony; 
I was not chosen 

For the big things of life! 


CAROLINE PHILLIPS REDDEN, 
Denton, Md. 


I WISH I HAD A KITCHEN 


I- wish I had a kitchen 

All shiny white and green— 

A very little Kingdom 

Where I could reign as Queen— 


A pair of handy cupboards 
Full of glowing pots and pans, 
And room for flour and spices 
In rows of little cans— 


And a broad low window near, with 
Ruffled curtains, trim and white, 
And a glorious red geranium - 
Stretching upward to the light— 


I’d cook our meat and spinach 
And make little cakes and such, 
And even washing dishes 


Wouldn’t matter very much! 


MRS..GAIL F. COOPER, 
Denton, Md. 


From the Loom—-1932. 


Page Eighty Four 





Continued 


JIMMY KNOTTS’ BIRTHDAY 


I know a certain little boy, 

Just six years old today; 

His cheeks are red, his eyes are blue, 
His spirit bright and gay. 


The Knottsy look I see in him 
Is so much like his father! 
The Smithy look I also see 
Belongeth to his mother, 


The first grade boy has started out 
To learn his lessons well; 

He’ll learn to write, he’ll learn to read, 
He'll even learn to spell. 


’Twould be a joy to teach this boy; 

To train his little mind, 

To teach him things he ought to know, 
The treasures where to find. 


Now, baby ways are far behind 

And small-boy ways are wrong; 
The bat and ball, the shout and call, 
To big-boy ways belong. 


A spirit bright will guide this boy 

On to the upward quest! 

He’ll know the right, he’ll know the wrong, 
pee know which way is best. 


The part I think this boy will take 

Will be the better part; 

For I know his training, sound and sure, 
Will guide his youthful heart. 


LAURA NELYVIN, Teacher, 
Denton, Md. 


‘ TWILIGHT AT SEA 


The twilight hours like birds flew by— 
As lightly and as free; 
Ten thousand stars were in the sky, 
Ten thousand in the sea. 
For every wave with dimpled face 
That leaped upon the air, 
Had caught a star in its embrace 
And held it trembling there, 


AMELIA B. WELBY. 
Born at St. Michaels, Md., Feb. 3, 1819, 
Died Louisville, Ky., May 3, 1852. 


Contributed by Mrs. Howard Melvin, 
Denton, Md. 


a 


: RA ie ova : 
a 
», a er ibs 


5 as ass | 
‘ai spoons Cy ns iif 






7 + 


¥ 













CANT ‘“eTPTOLA THE. AD 


vod e131] aintzao & 

iwaboj bie etsy 

20id o12 esyo vid Nor ore)etosds- 
ta bite Jdagind jialge 


mind at ee2 T doo! witont otT 
'wetie? «id ott! dowap oe 

oom ovale 1 tool editest® off / bereves 

19f)oin aid of Lisanotea 


two berraisz asi vod shears jah 
iHow eocezel ald meet tredditide be 


-beer of ateel ile oti7e of mash ifen Prete ke hod * j 
dieqe 5) a vest aeve Wald “pt 

par. ~~ vb plier: 

od aid) finae/ o! vot « od SitewT’ pres Bop 


* , 
-baim strait aid nist) of wod osta I tail Bae 
wousk of idgvo od «xaid) mid dosed of :Met1bilils lo aa3lev 
bul} oJ sisdiw eoiweaets aT ive 4alm0o #ie Youd 









| 
a 


asede vad, a a 
2 





































baited 1a) o18 evaw uded wer a. ol slain tt oy 
“BHOIW etc aueew (od-lamae bak !elttwoee at ye 
lino bus tvode wilt ed bas ind ea? oon 10cm Un seo sede “a 
auoled ecew yod-aid of nein adlool ode aad We. 
Tao 

you atd3 sbiug tliw jduied Siolge A :AOOuOME Pal, tlle va 08 

fttourp brawyy ef} ef #O 19e0d9 Jo@ @: 

200TwW Of) wound il’ed .idait on) wound i'el 


teed al ew dolilw wand en) | ‘ati! Jo wgutatd ald ity 
ota) Thor od cid) dnd) I drag oa SCS saidatite SuLIORAD 


‘They «thet od) od OW” bil wolaed 
ite him bawoe .aviaiant) ed woad 1 37 oF it ce eee : 
7 AJiged [lovey wd obing LW 4HBOTEE & GEM I Haw 
| " 7 notosid s bad 1 dai 
weieneT .ATAISA AWA ~~ Pos 
bM noted ; usovs bite athdw 


siobaalA el wer 
——~HieouD 24 agion Kino 4 


CATE THOT ebinodqus ‘beamed, et 


-—~"d wah ebvid off exeod sitytliws edt ote nae ae nk 
79601 eo bas fsa oA 10 ae a 
elle oll nk viow erele honepod) gat —r aha oll 


ove on? ai basecod). at oat +e 
8) belgaih diiw orew, gots i AW tase wohaiw wor ba 


Tle wit) mnogu baquel jadT iw ban mit re: “(tw ’ 
peda afi rice @ dane bald “aliete, bet D 
etait aaglidavrw i bled eA, —1 gil oni ob & 

YaIGW  @ ATIGICA on Ga bas tae t 

P28 f sted be steadath 12 tg a0 Aes ow 
228i © Ye .2H .ollivetuod boid tsudt ior 
aiview buwell gi wd theivdinided “oe 
5M nosed 


~ Denton 


THE GREAT CHOPTANK 


Beautiful river, winding away 

From Caroline’s uplands down to the Bay; 

Thy banks set in green when Summer is 
on, 

In yellow and russet when Summer is 
gone. 

Now aimlessly swirling ’mong barnacled 

piles, 

Now stealthily creeping ‘round low-lying 
isles, 

Washing the roots of great poplars that 
lean 

Where lily-pads float, a carpet of green. 


Flow gently old river, theme of my song, 

In vision thy current bears me along 

To the years of the past, to ages long 
spent, 

Ere mortal beheld thee, and solitude lent 

A charm unenjoyed. Thv banks were as 
green 

And lily-pads laid under great pines that 
lean 

A flower-flecked carpet, and wide marsh- 
es spread 

A banquet at which the wild life was fed. 


Thou wert old ere the Indian his shell 
mound began, 

When by his squat village thy deep wa- 
ters ran. 

From thy shelly depths he sustenance 
drew, 

On thy bosom—his highway—he impell- 

. ed his canoe, 

He heard the dull boom of the drumfish 
afar. 

The ery of the loon the night silence jar, 

He saw the grim hawk poised over thy 
tide, 

The silent brown otter from th’ reedy 
bank slide. 





The swish of his arrow, the twang of his 
: bow, 

The waterfowl fluttering the red deer laid 
low, - 

The gliding canoe, the rude _ paddle’s 
splash, 

The stealthy approach, the death-dealing 
flash 

Of his spear, flint-tipped, delighted the 
heart 

Of the savage, of rude nature a part. 

He came, lived, and vanished, leaving only 
a trace 





Continued 


In legends and relics—a mystical race. 

The charm of thy beauty his rudeness 
o’ercame, 

And his poetic fancy gave thee a name. 


At all times, in all seasons, beauty is thine. 

In color reflected, in wide sweeping line, 

When thy fair bosom the morning mists 
veil, 

When reflecting the cloudlets that over 
thee sail, 

When the moon’s silver sickle hangs low 
in the west, 

Or full tips with gold every dancing wave’s 
crest; 

In movement majestic, obeying a power 

Above thee, felt but unseen when lower 

The storm clouds, but benign, full of 
grace, 

When in the far blue she shows her calm 
face. 


O river of romance, to me shalt thou be 

A type of humanity, as in thee I see 

A beginning obscure in the shadowy glades 

Of the forest, so the primeval shades 

Of the unexplored years curtain from 
men 

Man’s beginning. The twilight of legend, 

The poetic myth, to man’s origin lend 

A mystical charm, till history’s pen 

Links present and past. What future 
will be 

In eternity’s lost, as thy stream in the sea, 

W..9S. CROUSE, 
Contributed by Mrs. Crittenden Harper, 
St. Michaels, Md. 


TREASURES— 


This book is like a treasure-chest, 
Where riches can be found, 

For every word is like a gem 
Within these pages bound 


They’re polished bright with feeling, 
And glow in shining praise, 

Their worth is in their truthfulness 
Which deep within them lays. 


Genuine facts of history, 

3its of old folk-lore, 
Illustrations, verse and song— 
All are treasures from the Shore. 


MERLYN KERN. 
Denton, Maryland. 


Page Eighty Five 








*~ 7 = er : 
5 wie de el) eta oa 
+ State AR Wy btw 


oe lmiiaeym a—-eole: bik 
eevdiehen eid yisteed git Yo tt 
2 
eed & ood! ovny yone) eog ait Baa 


sain al Yluaed 2dozse a at cools lin TA 
251, gaiqteowa obiw af .beiosNet yolea af 
acim gatotom efi morod tie) 4d) ad 


Jjtey 

Tero jada «taihwokh of) galiosiet goadW 
ine apely 

wol eyoed oldote tevile «noon af) aed 
Jeow afi al 

WW getoneh Yter biox ditw aqid itv x0 
, e819 

Weg & Bhivedo sit#otan iieeruvotd 

towel nonw meena tnd tio) ead) ua ; 

lo Net ialged fad zbwols mio eat 
o989R 

mies tad swore oda etid in) odd at nodW 
rent 

ed sor? ticde om of .onamor ta wave O 

oe | go) ni es winsing dl lo ORT A 

ashais Ywobada od} at or edo saigateel A 

obada Invermiig of on ertod any 16 

mot) gipmvs eaer bsiolaxene 44] 10 
neal 

-boeyel Jo tdalliws 6aT welcutwed wan 

bowl ciglhto ete ot diam olfeo ee 

rq «iolnd Ul) .omeds leslie 

“wind inlwW auq Hah t/ha wanif 
od itfa 

mee pt? a) amore ta on Jen] & etineete al 


AZJORD 2 W 
eM aobast7nO wilh wd 


tlt 


beiodiviae) 
sounds 322 


—AM IAs SLT 


##a-s7)(2007) a 4eil ei dood wdT 
hovel ») on aed aoAdW 
mex 4 49) «i brew eve HT 
bivud wetuq geod ald 


5 
aaiies) diiw mtelrd hasteleg of gett 
aelbig atte at woli-had 
smontuldwsd tied! nt al dinow tad? 
2t0l gied: olds qoah dot 


“10teld Jo aon? snigasis 


‘ od We Al) hia lo vi 
a. bre otinv ,<potrwidaall 
sede of) mtrtl eotmesoy sin A 


4H49H KV INaAN 
bealvoel cetgadl 


aaa 


af Qoob Ul) egalliv, ree: eid. ved | 














































ae 6d! of awob « 
Tom iuwe nae 


wt marmue node soucers 
“904 24, 
belosatnd daeat aalintwe Jennie 
patd-wol Gaver: alqoers frat 
dadd gr: alqog mom to: wom 
mooTg lo jequaAD #. seoh f 
2408 70 to emed!t ze7lt bios 
‘Bu0ln em #teed-Jasi199 
anol esna of Jenq aff) Yo 


mol ebustion bas ,adt blotted: 
eh @19w sdaond “AT (be 


tad! walq ineta t9obay Biel 
~hman obtw ban sequno bed 
-bel caw olil blbw odd dolido te 


{lode eld eetbal edt ets dio g 
.oeged bavom 


2 


at eoy 
“ediqob etiods edt 


a 

sqm! od—yewdald sid—smonod 
-  ,9Qonn9 bo 
detimeih of? Yo anood itob an 


Tht eonetin Idgia od} nool ont ‘ 
“Ad tevo beetag Awed mista @ is 


theses ‘di mo) beastaad sword a 


aiff to aonws ot works ait Yo dal: 
hiel web her edi gubettwh tue aw 
volbbaq oba dt awegns B ly 
antiowb-dined ft dies rage m7 ot 


¥ 


a ty 
» 


Soin )e ie od 


het Poy > 






@ 
ay ® 


; 59 poste: 


ae 
Easton 
TALBOT COGN EY 


With shores bathed by the sapphire waters of the Chesapeake Bay, its fertile fields 
penetrated by broad salt water rivers, Taibot County is a panorama of fertile fields, mag- 
nificent highways and pine-clad reaches of woodland. Easton, its capital, is in very truth, 
“the delightful city.” 


Settled a century and a half before American independence, once the chosen dwelling 
place of the Indians, whose graves and implements alone remain as relics of a dead past, 
the heaven of mariners from all over the warld, as well as the “rendezvous ideal” of 
buccaneers, Talbot County is indeed a iand of legends; legends that have sprung from the 
passing panorama of life, romance and reality. Today this garden spot of the Shore is 
inhabited by a hospitable, progressive people who will remember its pasc as long as 
grave stones, legend and fireside records keep memory alive. 


Originally known as Talbot County Courthouse, Easton’s history began as early 
as 1700. At one time Oxford was an aspirant for the Courthouse privileges but Easton 
was finally chosen. In March 1785, an act was passed to build a town. A new Court- 
house was built some years later on the site of the old one, and was not completed until 
1794. On the 17th day of June 1712, the first Court was held in the old original building. 
A tavern or “Ordinary” was established for those who attended the sessions of the Court. 
This caused a settlement to spring up, but it was not incorporated until 78 years after the 
erection of the original Court building. 


On the 25th day of November, 1765, the people assembled to attend Court, but this 
was the year of the passage by the British parliament, of the celebrated stamp act which 
with other oppressive measures brought on the rupture between the colonies and the 
mother country. The Court refused to hold its regular session, thereby refusing to recog- 
nize or comply with the act, which required that all Court papers have the obnoxious 
stamps afhxed. 


The first person to conduct a hotel in Easton was Elizabeth Winkles. In those 
days Easton boasted a population of 428 whites and 212 blacks. 10 miles from Easton 
is Wye Mills and the famous Wye Oak. The age of this noble tree is estimated te be 
about 400 years. It is 18 feet in diameter, has a horizontal spread of 140 feet and its 
height is 89 feet. 

Among the outstanding places of interest in the vicinity of Easton are Radcliffe 
Manor, built in 1749, the Old Friends Meeting House, built in 1684, and the famous 
Wve House which was one of the early estates, and which is perhaps one of the most 


beautiful places on the Peninsula. 


Easton is rich in folklore and tradition. It is a city of homes; reverently it honors a 
glorious past, and yet keeps step with the progress of the present. 


Page Eighty Six 


aes 
oR 


ek 


worn ody le dno annfling 2 onder bene amu ¢ites ae 


























ehion olin? ei voll atesqeani.) sais wo i drtrlqne ahh 
geet 2bbstt slinot Jo amercaiy 2 ef yee sodieT movi wotew ghee 
hunt yor ai zi dexiqna ai nored ‘vatboow to ioen beb-oniq 


gnillewh meods oft sence onsbasasbni nea mah soloed Ned x b f 
Jeeq beoh ev to ecilsa zn cium anole adorn obey pens bra -veny wodragualiiallle 
“leit weovsebasr™’ aft en Itew en Jbbeow off aso Ie mont soniteen % 
orl? mond gases oval dt el aayal sabia Yo bie « beabni a wnwoD todlel 200 . 
1 s1edé ods ta soar mobeey cid yeboT uileot ban ssnamop sil Ye yoives 
26 gaol es seeq el wadrnocan [iw op shjea. svizecrgerq .oldatiqzad syd | 

ovile yredrm qasd sbiosn sbieni bas biog! 


vives en maged qorid 2'noned senetinueD ynweD iwolleT 2& mwond <b 
HoReT Ind eoyoliving aeucdnued ah wi testes oe cow bidiz®) amu: ano. JA. - 
ne wean A wo) 6 bltod of tage ge ton on 2801 dove al sods: 
lnau betaiqeee joo eew bas ,ono Hho Sif Ym sit ols Ao rte! ze5y soe ihiud an 

-2atbfid lenigno ble od: nm bled zn tye peo) SII onul to vab att oh nO” 
muol oft lo nore oft bobriank ay worl wi boadaikinses aw “yianibi" yo A 
otis vaiin ena? 8% Jonu boimoavee sa aw 8 dod .au panne op teroenaless s eta aT 


.geibliad nao Isnigho ods Yo fi pit 


zit od jival) bnstte Oo holderisesn shycsry ott AOT1 .rodemevalf Yo yah dize ony ra 7 
doris 326 get batardelas owl) to sromsibeg Hettindl otis vd sgeeng ody to 897 
wi! bee mianlos odi nssartod nuk sd) ne tiguword eTUeHON ovizeaiqgo dt he 
goon} yitzvlo yds owes welogan en Bldd of fezudo: nuod sfT. cepauede 
vorxonds oft se eraqen neo) le seh Watiipor rhidw ase oft rhe ge 
-boxifig 
vol ml vide? dixlexitt soy comet af lated « nubnos on noniaq Ria oft 
Noted mon lun Ol 2doeld S18 bas assitiw 40% jo noteluqog « bomeod 2 : 
sj of Lolgertttes of a0 skdon 2h) In agp SAT et) ov enomel ‘ort boe effi hte 
2) bas tol Of bo bene lnmnosned o aad aera ni gst Bf ei a ae 


=? 


a 


tilbe se sows jo winnie wh al teeta jo zouely yy 
evortal wh) ben PROT ai slid eel gael elnsitl bo ad re 


6 meno tt vbaviaen jzomed to yo gai .Aaitibew ‘bes awolilah i tis 


Jmungq sit to eargoig 64 dines (yae aad 9: Fre 1 


> 2 a i = | ave 


——Crontinued 






at a a ee 
53 5%, 
op : 
rag 


Ae; 





at 
* 
3 
4 


ee 


SP 


mriet 


vp 
eee 
=a 








OLD FRIENDS MEETING HOUSE 
Easton, Md. Erected in 1682 


Probably the most interesting Church building in the State is the Third Haven 
Meeting House of the Friends at Easton, in Talbot “County: The charm of this ancient 
Church is found in its utter simplicity. Begun in 1682, two years were consumed in 
its construction. The rafters and clapboards were hewn out of the forest with a broadax. 
- Small and unpretentious, it has endured for over 250 years. 

Some of the windows still contain the originel! hand-made glass—bulging and 
irregular on its surface. There is an atmosphere of spirituality about it that speaks louder 
than the splendor of stone and steel—or brick and concrete. Its plain wooden walls and 
rough- hewn rafters testify to something invisible and enduring. 

Records of marriages, births end deaths have been kent continuously from 1676 to the 
present time. ‘These pecores are filled with many interesting incidents of a day long gone, 
couched in curious old English words and phrases. Estates’ of deceased“ members. were 
administered upon thru thie business meeting, and any differences between members 
adjusted. 

William Penn visited this Church in 1700, and letters and epistles from him were 
afterward received and read in the meeting. The record also reveals that the Indians 
often came and sat in reverent silence—seemingly to feel at home in the peaceful atmos- 
phere. 

Surely, this religious society of Friends has not lived in vain; for its influence has been 
far-reaching—even unto the ends of the earth. It has become a shrine, and tourists 
eagerly seek it out when visiting the Eastern Shore. During the past several years over 
four thousand pilgrims have signed their names in the visitor's book. Regular quarterly 
meetings are still held in this ancient edifice. 

“Tf love and truth and dauntless faith 
Can shed an influence round, 


Then these are consecrated walls— 
And this is hallowed ground.” 





JUST A DRUG STORE 


There is a drug store at Easton. Nothing unusual about that except that it is a drug 
store. It does not sell hardware, hard liquor, soft drinks, or serve lunches. It operates as 
a drug store. 

The proprietor is Percy P. Cox, who has been in the same store for 44 years. It was 
first established in 1869. No slot machines, radios, or other nerve-racking devices lumber 
up the place. It is eminently respectable and reliable—as a drug store. 


Page Eighty Seven 





















= okt Se AA hbo’ 
20H OAITSaM 20435184 10 
20 ai hymn .bM nord, ‘ 


. 


povmlHi boardT of) 2) stc12 of ite j wd dimud2 QE Ron sil? Oe ) 

insane 2 le aterls of T a ei wells T ai ton fe ebrand orl Yo Ue, ua 

ni bunvenon-st9w 2incy ov) ROE mi myst §_yrinilqenie tes an ni bauel 

zebcord & dinw terol ods to woonwad grew ehinodaals bam emer sdT une / 
roy 0 yee 20) Lowber and t. 2v0Basingag ie 

bac gntulud—escls sbam-bned [signe of) migstor Iie eweobainw ort do. 


; 


volwcl ewes sad ty suode vilestnige to syedeeomnie ak at sit oghie ati an) liry 
has elisw moboow nicl: 1) .stereite tine dond yo—-loon bine show io robnsiqz t 

 2enubnas bet aMiecre youl of Vines aones + 
at .o8 A141 mot! viewouriines yeool assed qed eins ba ednid aogemiss toaly 
oreg yool yeb 6 to anehon: yoiteorsial vain tin bell 26 abness seed lami i 
‘vw ecorrwn boeasosh le sone etthiln bie zinow detignd blo auvenun ait 
mirror coxsvied meonnehib van bile $arwm esqeud add ures aon D319! 


Sy 


, 


raw mid coot zeiriqs line zen) has ROS ni dod cy baie nest? mee 
achat orld sett eluovo: ore bowven wT uptiigoen odt ob. tae cbae, fevigens 
eeuniie fyisoete ole at onod t losbar Yenins-snle soos a1 Jez bag 


i) 


19) oe! oonmgultai ef tol sniny of Levi tom aan eben Yo vasizee enoigilor ei hae 
unuot Leg onisde « onnoced end i live olf Yo sbne ot) conn ni ; 
40 c16oy lelevae Neg wt peo) cope gantead od) gaia aodiy 100 db a ” 2g 
(Tantup rcloyod dood « wattece oft ai gommet sine Longie aved eenny . f 
ithe snsone cide bled te 
dled zenlirumb bor 1) Dae evel MY - 
‘bute? soieahat wa bede aad 


—#itew bofarmapo ota oxedd oodT ‘ft rT 
“ pote hewollad wi eid? hod 





MNOTA DUAL ATAU =| 


gb i 2 i anh 192079 tells mods lenawan yao” .nmecd % nor guab « i nod 
ch eyitiodo i] zoel ova yo want flee aon pil brad igyeled Tse on enh 


ashi : 
A = ' piers 
aon tl ieee BE aot note sence selon od odn 20D FE eat ny ond 
wir! menob anidsers/rn ioe ww iin gonidocm tole OFF POAT ai weeny 2 
. nose yunb & e&e—oideiloy baw sldenoqes qhmonin 2 a oval 
"" o > : 





> 


reovee yiig’2 oye 





Continued 


Gaston 


SONG OF THE EASTERN SHORE 


De sof’ crab cum fum Marylan’, 

En as dat stall ah pas’, 

Ah smack mah lips, he ulk so gran’, 
All packed in green sea gras’, 

He seem to say: Oh! Gum away 
From the hot en fuss¥ town; 

Why doan yo’ go to de Eastahn Sho’— 
Way down by Tangah Sound? 


De Eastahn Sho’, De Eastahn Sho’, 

En de ol blue bay wheh de salt wins blow, 

En de sof’ crab swim when de high tides flow— 
Oh! cah-hy me bac to de Hastahn Sho’, 


Ol terrapin lay on his bac’, 

In de market-house today; 

He peep et me fro a teensy crac’ 

When he see me pas’ dat way, 

En he seem to call from de market stall, 
Ah’m dess from Marylan’, 

Why doan yo’ go to de Eastahn Sho’, 
“Wid its beach ob yellah san’? 


De Eastahn Sho’, De Eastahn Sho’! 

De terrapin cum from deh Ah know, 
He start dem homesick dreams to flow, 
Oh! cah-hy me bac’ to de Eastahn Sho’, 


Oh! de Eastahn Sho’ am de Mastah’s Lan’, 
Eden wan’t so nice; 

De good Lawd made dis spect so gran’ 

It’s dess lak Paradise, 

Fish en crab in de summah-time, 

An de sof crab grow so fat; 
Wintah an de oystah’s prime 
Wil’ duck an mus’rat. 





Oh! de Eastahn Sho’, De Eastahn Sho’! 
A shanty home an an ole bateau; 
Gimme dem—an de town may go. 
De Lawd’s own lan am de Eastahn Sho’. 





Author unknown 
Contributed by R. B. DIXON, JR., 
Easton, Md. 








God’s moments are our centuries; 
His flats are our mysteries; 

Time writes a never ending scroll, 

We read one line as though ’twere all, 
And make that line enough, forsooth, 
To satisfy our quest for Truth, 


Two centuries and a-half have flown, 
Third Haven’s scroll still writ upon; 
This meeting house to passing host 


Upon Time’s scroll must not be lost, 
And thankful they who worship here 
This building stands from year to year. 


God writes upon the living scroll 

His message to the human soul. 

The house not made by human hand 
Is where He vids man understand 
That, with attentive inner ear, 

His still small voice each one can hear. 


These beautiful hymns, sung to the tune of ‘‘Faith of Our Fathers,’ were writ- 
ten by Mr. Wilson M. Taylor, for the Third Haven Meeting House of the “friends” 


at Easton. 


‘Page Eighty Eight 


































“Al fode ndeseaie 
wold entw itea ab w tad auld fo ab 
—wo eebit dgid eb itiwe dav ‘lor ob caf 
018 andere Wi os ood ot td-des 10 


{ 
; "ond eid ao val giqattes [0 
{yabo! sevod-rediam ob al ; ) 
‘81D WROSS? @ oT? oot ie qaeq oH i- 
taw tkh ‘°aq om ove ad a9tW 
tlae Josten ob ios) lens of wose od n@ 
waheie cioit 2zeobh add 
one Wiese wh »! os ‘oy onob YAW 
tfiwe, deer do doaed alt bIW 


‘od? mite of ode adajsedt of 

vouk AL 1) feel muo ciqariad off 

c wot of nteat® Whee wie Mes oH 2 
042 atletnaG 2b oF “ned om ~d-deo 1dO hd 


‘g4.1 ofatanMm ob aie ‘0d? ofalend ob 1dO 
: jwein o¢ asw uoebat 
‘Revs on Jaqe eib shar hwel hody ef A 
Je borst sal 2eebd afl Aj 
anh taigum® ob et daw os daa 
:4u1. t@ Wova dw los ob aA 
~suntag afters ob ta daiatW ' “4 
let fois an tout aw" é 


‘ot? edotesa off “adh tndaied ob Wo 








: ‘doetnd sii iin om emed wierada “A 
j -o8 Yam away ob no—imol ommtd 
| ‘ofa adwwnd ob tiv val awa wiwad of = 
iwonuton «omtimaA- .~ 
: 1. “ORIG A OM «dt belvdiaeD 
| 6M .ooOfeas 
tan! of Jon teumm Moin 2 emit? gage ieolieing® Yo ete siaemem | 
: s1o ygitleiow odw vod: iwistwed : aN Ieta TNO O18 
189% 0) Tov mot) ehosie solhiigd jtortine aatbie TaveG @ aabtw 
Jia ovew)' dawedi ea ent! ono 
iiotee anivil ad) nogd seliaw tet Aieemo) Aewens suit 
jvos oéitud off of smear ; aor? oO) jeoup WoO 
has sf neiond ul ebem toa Say) 
haviviehban agin «hid off ule | awed ‘ie 
100 tan! ovitiotia i ae 
eed a4 eno ithe solov (ome 


“titwW wtow votiet 20 Ie dig to cf eer bs unwe 
“Shuey” ody lo oanett antiastl waeetl Wee ous \oke ¢ 





Easton—continued 


ST. MICHAELS IN 1812 


Here’s a story of old St. Michaels 

Down on the Eastern Shore , 
A tale many a reader I feel quite sure 
Has never heard before. 


Of how, when news was received that the 
British 

Were coming to fire the town 

The patriots were up and ready 

To defy the British Crown, 


“Let every man light a lantern 
We’ll hang on limbs of highest trees’”’ 
Sang out the patriot leader 

And we'll not give a sneeze. 


Well the stately ships of the red coats 
Halted just long enough 

To waste their ammunition 

And thought they’d treated us rough 


As they fired their old nine pounders 
And then sailed quietly on 

Thinking that old St. Michaels - 

Was ieveled and dead and gone. 


But reader don’t you believe it 

For while balls came hot and quick 
The only bull’s eye that they hit 
Was one of few houses of brick. 


When tourists visit St. Michaels— 
They are very likely to call 

At the house which is always known 
As the ‘‘House of the Cannon ball’’. 


A few days after the Red Coats 
Had made that illustrious call 

A patriot found embedded in earth 
A British Cannon ball. 


Which was taken a few miles from St. 
Michaels 

And hung on a great big oak 

And to this day there’s a little town 

Which is called the Royal Oak. 


By E. M. C. 
Easton, Md. 


OUR ATTIC 


How we loved that dear old attic 
How I loved to climb that stair 
How the shades of the departed 
Seem to linger everywhere 


“Granny gzreats’’ wheel in the corner 
Almost hear its whirring now 

See my granny with her knitting 

And her same unwrinkled brow. 


Tucked away in distant corner 
Is the little trundle bed 

Then a chair I’ll always cherish 
Could I now but rest my head. 


Rest in silence and in memory 

Or by old melodian stand 

While our Mother played and we sang 
Moses in the ‘‘Promised Land’’. 


“Go down Moses’’ we adored it 
Then the chests and boxes there 
Filled with priceless quilts and linens 
Do you wonder that we’d stare 


At each piece and at the china 
Lowestoft not valued then 
Relegated to that attic 

Naught to them but later when 


% * * * 


Some would come who knew their value 
Parcel out with care and thought 

All the things in that old attic 

Oh the thrills that each piece brought! 


In that attic when as children 

We dressed up in silks and lace 
Played charades and sang in ‘‘Opera”’ 
Deemed it then as no disgrace. 


To haul out those lovely blankets 
For our curtains, grope around 
Into the cloth covered boxes 

Till the things we’d wanted found. 


So we now in retrospection 

On that happy childhood dwell 

And the memories lingering with me 
Out the pale of words to tell, 


By HeaMa Gc: 
Easton, Md. 


Page Eighty Nine 






































' OITA avo 
. ot338 blo .0eb tend) bevol aw 
tase. Jat) dotiio ot bevel ES 
; - beiieqgsbh of! lo esbuda edi 
Swdweievs wanll oF; 
TetTO> ane ai footw “einete hetk ef? Sad ape nadw 
; You. gahvitdw ot teed feowlh 
aatsiad yor Atiw psi fo cone ba 
woud beldahwae sae 

. ' slid 4 
; temoD Jnagiell ni awa hedtyut ‘ 
hed oibawt? otpill of wvinel a tdgll ono 

faiteds echwia (i'l vied @ “aoe1) tevdgid Yo adm! ad : 
basd ‘qu teor dud wom Tf ‘ 7 J 
. - ,o8¢ona o ovl® Jon I 


. Cumen a! bur sonatie At Tagg . 
Sania usibolorm bio wi TO etaes ber or) Yo eqide yletaza 


Rtine ow ban betalq tetlolM twos ‘ al fzuene gaol tout tal 
badl beslmorvt off of Bee ‘ poltiqumuta vedt 9 
davon «0 hajnew Bb yedt tdawortt 
i herebs ow “asso nwa Aan 
ad) asxod ban aleeds 487 G evebavoqg sala No wed? bea ta 
anondii bxa silinp veelesg ditiw henry ao vijsiup beltaz aed? & 
viata bow Jed) whaow ver of vlonittit 32 blo sad? yr 
. - econ boa bash baa belovel: 
aatds of) te bem evetq dona TA on 
aed; bortey ion Niddeawod tt eveifed wor #a0b 1shaet 
Hoe tell of A ausion toleo bes tod gare aliad olidw 4 
ned? wiel ied wod7 of Gandy tld YOR! ded9 ove a'ilud ving 


.tottd lo esaued ws) to sao 889 


2 % _ . ee 
—elsadyll{ 2 shetr sialsoot 
suler tie! wand ofw ontes bivew enon Heo of ¥felll yer 
siuvodts hoa suas stilw jad. lage awond evewia ef daidw oan 
"tin fie geet? at. sie tt i “tied godie on) Yo oavoH” 
‘idég_uoid ofatq dvds tad) eile eh) aD 
eieoD hel od) 199)a aad 
ribo 2a ae Win tegy al ‘Hes euéliadlin) Jad) sbam ti 
onl site adie al qu boeenth oH dixvsa al nohhonme beve? 
‘aaseO” fp Sime bate evberng> Rode iled sonaet) ¢ 
wonigath oo na edit 9 


48 mov! notin wat eo aeted iew Hot 
todeuld givval send) vo leaf OT - a 
DTA aOTs 0 te Tot dao aid jew » a ce 
skridt beerroo dtoln edt obpl awot sii » aout cog ae rae 
beeut Bomaw Wew eanaids oft 1 aw ioqon. on? 


Oloogzette! ui Wen ewe | > or om all ‘ot aap 
ilowh boadbiide “aged jad? eb on 

ort ti} ” 2ohtonnlf #aliontenr we 

tod ’ flat OF eine Tu vteg oft 


OD MW OW 2a 
$M .aoieos 








Continued 


Gaston 


THE BIRD THAT SANG IN MAY 


< A little bird came to my window-shutter 
One lonely morning at the break of day, 
And from his little throat did sweetly utter 
A most melodious lay. 


‘He had no language for his joyous mission, 
No solemn measure nor artistic rhyme, 

Yet no devoted minstrel e’er did fashion 
Such perfect tune and time. 


It seemed of thousand joys, a thousand stories, 
All gushing forth in one tumultuous tide, 

A hallelujah to the morning-glories 

That blossomed on every side. 


And with each canticle’s voluptuous ending 
He sipped a dew-drop from the dripping pane, 
Then heavenward his little bill extending 
Broke forth in song again. 


I thought to emulate his wild emotion, 

And pour thanksgiving from a tuneful tongue, 
But human heart ne’er uttered such devotion, 
Nor human lips such song! 


At length he flew and left me in my sorrow, 
Lest I should hear those tender words once more, 
And though I early waked for him each morrow 
He came not nigh my door. 


And though from early dawn to twilight hour 

I hear the hoarse woodpecker and the noisy jay, 
In vain I seek through leafless glade and bower 
The bird that sang in May. 


But once again, one silent summer evening, 

I met him, hopping in the new-mown hay; 

But he was mute, and looked not up to heaven, 
The bird that sang in May. 


And such, methinks, are childhood’s dawning pleasures, 
They charm a moment, and then fly away. 

In vain we sigh and seek those missing treasures, 

The birds that sang in May. 5 


This little lesson, then, my boy, remember: 
To seize each bright-winged blessing in its day, 
And never hope to find in cold December 
The bird that sang in May. 
WILLIAM BROMWELL 
(Trappe, Maryland). 
Contributed by WM. R. PHIPPS, 
Easton, Md. 


Note: William Bromwell, the author of ‘“‘The Bird that Sang in May’’ was born 
at Trappe, Maryland. He was a tutor at ‘“‘Wye Heights” and also in the Golds- 
borough family whose family-seat is ‘‘Otwell” in Talbot County. Governors Phillip 
Francis Thomas, elected in 1847, and who served also in the cabinets of Pierce and 
Buchanan, took Bromwell to Washington as his private secretary, Here Bromwell 
made the acquaintance of Judah P. Benjamin, United States Senator from Louisiana. 
He later became the Secretary of State of the Confederacy and took Bromwell with 
him. Mr: Benjamin forsook this country and went to reside in London. Later 
Bromwell, who had been entrusted with the Seal of the Confederacy, joined him. 
Benjamin cared for him until his death. There is a jegend that the true Seal was 
never returned to this country. However, when one visits Richmond, Virginia, 
one is faced with facts to the contrary. 


Page Ninety 


a 


Rt 


qHlidt growtave) .¢igneD sodig? af “thew ef 5 as anode 
bid engi Me, gientitas ct) a one Levype ofw bay FRE fi batoote , 


a ~ 
i J 


























21! bas sag) toslneg 
wahiote fh # .rrol barevold Yo" revenge 
had auth at eee titeu,y VA 
a od? hod Hat slot, 
bia cers no bea 







atibas a wowsquloy a’ototinas done » seat baa 
.o08q a! uot? qorb-web « beqaia 
ut Hitd ofssll eid brewnevecd 
a thoge goo ol A102 odor 


a Siw eid etalon oF Idauol) ra - 

agnor I 3 2 wor anivigednads iwog baA 

Jtoljoveb sous baveytn aon ined uoined Jo 
‘aeoa dove aq aagwd wh _ 


wortoz tet at om tel bue we od dignel gA. 
10m sonm eb1ow tolhwe) seod) te0f bisodal teal = * 
wortom done mtd vot bolew visee Pdgoodt bak | o! 
Tob «in dale jon earan oH 


110d Idgiilw? of wwab. ¢ise6 joort dagails BAA : 
ct veled of? ban wadseqghoow seine of} raed T | 
iowod baa Sbaly azefee! ¢avords dose 1] wiay ol 
tall a! anne dedd brid of T 


Brine write Insle ene ,wiage aono Inf 
tel awoittewon ol) af galqqed anid jou I 
norsen OF aw tea bottool ban .siom aaw od 308 
40 4) pene Sand brid odT 


7ivess!" sotoweB a hyodbiide au .«duidien dows bad “ 
cown WR wollt bite teenie a orvits 
uiseqwtt melee atody oes bas daia ow alav af 
Ue. wl gone jad) abiid odT all 


sodeote: cod ym mt) oenel efit elt? « 
".¥a® en) pt sepieeiiel baneiv-rityind fone tine OT. 
vdieo) bid» ni bell of.aqod 1980 bok © 
“nif oft ,0@e tads boiid aT 

















ry 


AIS WMOTH MALLITW J 
(DaaivwaM .eqqe1T) e cust. 

A99TRY A MW td betedintad) eos 
bY .cofesa > = 


wrod anw “enlt of ane? sats bua ox Tle ywutus aft Mewaortt eat 
-2bloB of? ai ota ban “arinieft ag?’ tn cote? » een 6 lbaa! 


Hawiurortl tr Sore e601 aA an acoutded ww Iw enone 
oudinion! met rolense wes olin wiamloall , Tage onthe to 

djie Mewar doo ban towbe) ohne 

Viel ..wobaod af oblast of thew & wees aids woonel 


mid hestot oeagoboleo? ods.do bee diiw Did Be cae 

aa” thom onvt-adt tadt boegei @ Ad i hash wid 

ig’? ,boemdiot attaiv eno a seven f 
‘tise oa on ! 





Ea § i O fi-—Continued 


A TRIBUTE 


In many respects the outstanding citizen of Eastow, Maryland, is Wilson Moore Tylor. 
His quiet, intrusive manner and engaging presence mukes one soon realize that he is 
in the company of a Christian gentleman and a scholar of rare gifts. 

Mr. Tylor is naturally reticent and shuns publicity; but the facts of his life testify 
to his descent from a line of Hollanders ov: his mother’s side and an equally respected line 
of English Quakers on his paternal side. He inherited from bis mother the artistic and 
poetis gifts, and from his father the deep sense of religious values. He was born in 
Caroline County but has spent a large part of ts life in Talbot County. He has been a 
teacher—in the public schools, and principal of Marshall Seminary, Saratoga, N. Y., and 
principal of a school in Easton. For many years he has been in the editorial association 
with the Easton Gazette; and is the author of books and numerous articles, and a poet of 
rare gifts. 

As a spiritual force Mr. Tylor’s life has courted large in his community. Associated 
for a life time with the Third Haven Meeting he has been an inspiring leader, chiefly by 
the quiet but intense fervor of his deep religious exnerience. A man who walks with God, 
in peace and serenity, and knows the exceeding abundance of joys the world cannot take 
away. 

To know Wilson Tylor is a blessing: and to be able to say “He is mv friend,” is to 
feel an enrichment in one’s life that gladdens and insvires. I rejoice that Wilson M. 
Tylor is my friend. 

EDGAR T. READ, Fawn Grove, Pa. 





WHERE HOPE BEGINS 


Where Hope begins, beyond despair: 
A brighter clime and softer air, 

A greener grass and firmer ground, 
Where nature-voices sweeter sound, 
And wider skies are blue and fair. 


Strange flowering trees their blossoms bear 
O’er roaming peacocks free from care; 
In peaceful acres these abound, 

Where Hope begins. 


Hope catches hearts in Beauty's snare, 

And banishes Sorrow to her lair; 

Only Youth and Joy are found; 

Anger’s voice in Mirth is drowned, 

And Love reigns o’er this kingdom rare, 
Where Hope begins. 


WILLIAM RODGERS PHIPPS 


Note: This poem was written in September, 1930, and dedicated to Mrs. William 
J. Starr, the owner of ‘‘Hope”’, a beautiful estate in the Miles River section of Talbot 
County. In commenting on the rondeau, the old French form of verse in which this 
poem was written, and which happened to be a favorite form of Mrs. Starr, she said 
that the poem seemed to catch the essential quality which she had tried to infuse in 
life’at ‘‘Hope’’ 


Page Ninety One 























oe 

ral¥T seqi4 nodiV/ st baabyunté wrong: bans 
ai od jars oxilemn now ono aden 30 2 ahaa 

2niy nav to ioe tae nsiind> @ 
vinies otif eid to atel ody teal sysini 
ottil barssqesr yileups ne bas sbie z“rediom eid ae abouliot 
bas queries od) yore 2id mod botrsini sf vobic lanysisa ir) no ‘ 
ni mod aw 9H aoales wwe sitton to sen aon ett r9dted aid o . see 
e nox eat oA gioco’) iodleT nf olif ath do tiem ourel c sarsige etel a0 ba 
bre .¥ A ,cyonas2 .yicaunsé Yard de laqhaciq ban 2looria olianc a 
nvieizos laiosibs adt ni sod zed od euay¢ vorm 101 .somed am bokeae 
to te0q 6 bas 2alsine evoiomun boo edge Goaorme st *i ban ieee) nanny 2 


tioatt 
[arenes wWinuerimes aid ni ore betes and Jl 20olvT aM snl feu ai 
vd pAoids sabes! gnaeeea os nod en ad aanolt asechi baetT ods daiw semis ait 
bed dew 2dinw adw nem A ooo eunipilay tich eid Yo roy) 2aaini ud 
idtd tonnes blew-ads eyoj lo 9 sail cide grtibeeots od) evond bas wings -bae 9 


mai “bnoivd ven e metal vee of sida of of bon spnpeokd « et rly aceliiitcaand sits ee 
M aowliW sarnt sini | oviceni bee sc7bbely fed? stil sono at insendsinns ng 
* bat} om uy 
| sf svn) raed CAAA .T AAOGE ) bewes biu 


tae 


fr 















nal ‘ 
U 








¥ 
27410987 WION AANHW 


‘iiedeobh feeved .aised sqoH ered WW 
tle t6%Toe hon omilo widslod A 
boyvets ein Bn sen7e tenentTe A - 
Datos telewite aestet-erlaa owed W 
ie) bere alld oe amide veblw DOA 


toot emoreld «ems geet! anirewell onsale 
(tho MOT GO) wets” atiarait yO 


Fess sod Wiens at i 
iad sor ovat a 


OTAna A ¥vitnen al ete@et satotes ago Se, 
thal wed of wotto# sorfeiond 
\buae) ara wl bax dinot x 
bunwotl at (Ii ut svtov ateRtA 
eT eresabeg th wtih ts". patsion ae ae : & 
* .wrrdasd 


eatin 290N00T MALILITW a 


maltiiw 2st oF holoihes ban Ofer . 
ionlieT Yo aoiiooe youl eft att al 
at? virw wl wey de moet tenet ie ae 


hint ade crcl? 29M Yo prvod wtiroval rin 
i saniel of beret tut ee dote@w wileup fh 


| Ea S to N'—Continued 


THE OLD HOUSE WITH THE INDIAN WINDOWS 


- There are still to be found in Talbot County, Maryland, a number of old and very in- 
teresting houses whose buildings and traditions carry one back to the early days of our 
colonial life. I saw one such recently. It is undoubtedly about three hundred years old. 
Its heavy brick walls are sound to this day and the hipped roof suggests an Englishman 
as its builder and first owner. The house stands on the brow of a beautiful gentle 
slope, at the foot of which flows the Choptank River deep and strong in its currents. It is 
about one quarter of a mile wide at this point and twenty eight miles from the mouth of 
the fine old river. As one enters the house the really fine paneling impresses one at once. 
This is in excellent condition and gives an air of distinction to the old rooms. Three of 
the rooms are beautifully paneled. How well those men of long ago built their homes. It 
would seem that they had given to the work some strength and courage and patience from 
their own spirits and so built in this case a house that has had courage to stand these three 
hundred years and still is firm and strong. The wife of the present occupant as she 
let us in asked, “Have you seen the Indian Windows?” We replied, we had not, and 
were much thrilled by the prospect. As we approached the panelling seemed to be 
closed and firm but when touched in the right way opened and back of it about two feet, 
eight inches, we saw the brick outside the wall, the space between the two making a roomy 
closet. In the outside wall had been cut a small window which was closed with a thick 
wooden shutter. There was a similar window in the second floor room immediately 
above. These she told us were the Indian Windows. They hugged close to the broad 
brick chimney. At once we could picture the anxious care which the builder of the 
house placed these secret windows so that they would command a long view of the 
Choptank River. In this closet concealed from those without and within the house he 
could watch for any enemy approaching and if need be shoot him down from his 
sheltered post. There were those he knew who might steal upon this home that he had 
built which held all of his possessions and all those he held dearer than life. Doubtless 
this early settler was one of Claiborne’s men who came in 1627 to these shores. It is 
believed that the old house stands on what was an Indian camping ground as so many 
of their camp utensils and arrows have been turned up when the fields have been tilled. 
The times were very unsettled. He might be attacked by Indians who still believe them- 
selves rightful owners of these beautiful hunting grounds. The savage might at any 
time float up the river and attack him. Besides the Indians, he knew the armed forces 
under Giles Brent sent by Governor Calvert of the Maryland colony to: dispute by force 
Claiborne’s title to the large grant of these lands which had been given him by the 
Virginia Colony; might steal upon him and attempt to dispessess him of his home and 
land. If either Brent or the Indians should succeed he and his family would be driven 
off homeless and desperate, so we standing there three hundred years later could see very 
clearly what a safeguard these Indian Windows had been to the brave settler and his 
family. Ne 

Our visit and examination of the old house brought up the past very vividly and 
reminded one that this great busy nation of today was three hundred years ago very 
simple in its habits of living and that its brave citizens frequently had to defend their 
homes and loved ones with their lives. ' 

On our return to town after seeing this old house in its quiet peaceful surroundings 
and heard the constant noise of the passing automobiles or the roar of an airplane over- 
head it ‘seems almost impossible that we are not now more than three hundred years 
away from those days of simple living and high adventure. Could the Claiborne settler 
return to the scene of his home he would find that the land that slopes so gently to the 
old river has been planted as an orchard. 


MRS. JOSEPH B. SETH, Easton, Md. 


Page Ninety Two 


-Viev- age-2wey feabowd sod? eon tris loo mater. vand misty eis tera hahied nien 






re ip nae i 


. 


sy Bheak 
bo nkte of 


's r ., 
zwoaviw “AlGut —_ pat. A2UOF ato" 


= 


“trey bre ble to drown ¢ beanie vedas tole T ai baad és Vite ove oroe 

196 to 2veb vheo oy ob ded ono Yes afonrben bee rynibliud seotw 2 = “Svs 
ble weay boaheuel oid? socio vibswdwobew aia) view dow ane wre af bot 
oreuvleilynd mh eeougiwre tout bogie od) bas val auts aa bree Te edtww doled eral 
yitmey latinvesd lo wot odi no aban seyedodT asewe 2h oo i 
eral .2te2n > efi ni ane b ne qual wi sdeqod®. ols ewok dob to wot 2 





























































9 Muon of coord colin 219 vinwwi ban idiog vids 1¢ sbiw olin ete 3 

2nO I one 2 rym sition anf vileot ach Sanodd oct eroirs ono 2A rit ya 

lo soul roar blo ods os noun Jo aie oe erp bes aanilna wielisyte one 

) aa wl xisily thid xno! to meet geedt law wohl bol 2G Vlinwesd nmeen 
ott sonaiieg bine soraves bis deandte Seam grow oft erase my bed yods re ’ 2 

mid? seeds bn 1009 bed eed seitsagad ao cams vids gi ied o2 ban oiiqa wwe 


e Insqux~; 4 stiw sfF gm bos mad 2 fie bee enor b 
bra ton het W ty Vi ‘ ‘ wobarW eaten! oelt i732 ov svnH” wbsdee ni ; 
d ot bone yeilhesq ol) botoemqge a cA os ah ory qd bolliveds dove ma 


: 1 ioe 4 Peete mo ww tly 2 wi wthayot godw wd cnt bet 
. bern oh iger ort obiesuo donb orks wee oe rortuai J Ee 
Apiths « diver boewls enw ‘do nobatve Wate a 9 Otel llew sbriwe sdionl ts 
Vorloemnm ; i b > oh ot Wolinew welenie 6 anw soodT  .rertadda 
al ode of a raobncd? amber! wh oe as blofodeseedT 
» gyal rij | eoRe 2A awison o ov sere JA yonrnids 
tio v coed sats swobniw rove send bsonly 
: Of) tele seo mwoly ety nl svi adn 
tee rol i 2 boon hh Bas ynilacow j& voIono He 1} stew b 
BS ts, ere ow veoresl uit yey sont Og b n 
. ; d of svat He bac’ yeu itl lo ie blod d>idve glia 
; ‘ i ) to ono ecw alive yes zie 
rt ; ii ae aw 3 ft t) #ioetinge sound blo rly rary ove 
ie ; ; ; yy Bentws aed ove swerve bee elenwe qmas Ts i “i 
| this bast] s al aiyica off byslss read yiov crow eonnif of 
* ie igun 4 tne wot twiitees! sett lo monwo lodgin egal 
= ai slat] nn dette ba svn oly qu seo « 
ate movie) senor vd vie tand eli 4 
lw ; ui wha shoal wiht Io im r aan! sft oi slid 2 on oli ) 
bas fe ; te ates W viftrele bad aid led Le eat iigua svaoleD Lory . 
vn . al al f wi beooowe Lluetie enntbnl ort tas rortia 2” baal 


; 7 

oy gee blisweao al ( Wosbead suet yale pepeleccae var Oe mmeeb bas wolora dF 

tin) baz volte svexd of) ot uted hed enobnTW neil zontt lyvmureotce ‘ trl vhes 
- ; ss 


. SUTTER 


boas vibiviv vese ry ; wi? aw inane uOH Lin oli lo actenionnzs bag sieiz hertz 


viol: basish o} bed yHeaups) soso avind gi ieds bas yareil lo vided wi ai 4 qrn 
eat zovil yeadi shiow eone bevel bar ott 

eaatinwenus luriasese Iuvp eli ni sevod ble sid} urntiete ale mwror ok mii UO | 10. 
12> ontlein ne Io yoor si te 24 velomune goa oi Yo Rion Iie ete oly tneord § 
uiy beohwud oonds meni sor wen fon) an oa incl sidizeoneni reonnlg enon be 
tiie oeredieh) ody hive vanwvhe dail bnew sarzil alge Io een 2a 
oo) yt oe voqele ont bevel aplp sesh La Sheen of geno eid do de Rab 


-brarlao ne ee betwelg ae tal 1 
OM ook HTA2 & HV2O1 2AM ho. teas 





7 


Easton 


Continued 





THE NURSE 


When God made a nurse that rib wouldn’t do, 
So He took from the sky a bit of its blue, 


From an angel He borrowed the purest of white, 
To fashion a robe of shimmering light; 


The fragrance of flowers and the strength of the vine, 


With a tender compassion did her fairness entwine, 


The hush of the twilight and the beauty of dawn, 
The soul of a mother and the grace of a fawn; 


Of fire and snow—and stardust and light, 
The mist of the valley and the quiet of night; 


The roundness of moon and the quiver of leaf, 
The softness of touch that banishes grief, 


Of these-——the Lord God, in the first blush of time, 
Created a woman in His image—divine. 


Then freed from all sin and removed was the curse, 
When God made the woman whom we know as a nu 


Dedicated to that distinguished company—The Nurses of the Shore 





rse. 


W. C. THURSTON. 





ODE TO TALBOT COUNTY 


In good old Talbot County 

On ‘the Eastern Shore, I trow, 
Where the nabob lives in clover, 
And the farmer drives the plow. 


Where the golden sun in setting, 
Paints the landscape far and wide, 
And the closing day of summer 
Draws her mantle—as a bride; 


Where the moonbeans rest in splendor 
On the ever rolling wave, 

And the nights are turned to gladness, 
As the shadows they enslave; 


Where the mocking bird and robin, 
Sing anon their silvery lay, 

And the whippoorwill and owlet 
Chant the closing of the day; 


Where the roses and the violets 
Give their fragrance to the air, 
And the dewdrop on the lily, 
Paints it fairest of the fair; 


Where the woodlands on the hillside 
Glisten with rustic hue, 
And the meadows and the valleys 
Give to the poet his cue; 





Where the fields are ever teeming 
With bounteous crops of grain, 
And the peal of distant thunder 
Portends the coming rain; 


Where the rivers rushing onward 
Have a mission to perform, 
And the foaming crests above them 
Seem trembling with alarm; 


In this land of milk and honey 
With its doors thrown open wide, 
It is here that we are resting 

On the crest of life’s full tide. 


“mis here that weary man may find 
The bliss for which he sighs, 
Where sorrow never lives— 
And friendship never dies.” 


HOWARD HAMMOND, 
Royal Oak, Md. 


Page Ninety Three 

















































Lm oe | 
ie v 
7 
f. 
| nhs a 7 * 
-_ 
ab-7'ablaow ply ih wean ev shew p00 eng : 
‘» Ould ele Hd avdleed) montoolisH ot. 
,eiiitw To maring at! hewovred off sane as we a 
. - byt! pulte@entivie Yo sdot 4 noldea) OT ' 
y : 4 
% of) Yo diguatie wit Ban exewar Yo sountee efT Ps 
a ‘Ine eacnvi ne yy! bih AolaAaR jimoas wba adniw - oo 
; nveb lo vive odd rig’ ' spelen ef; Io deund eff ~~. 
a : uwhi o lo S9ntR ver | indjod «Jo loos eaT y! 
* Se ee ») < F _” ae “ft neg e 
, ; lia ial! boa Seubté “hite—wone baa of YO 
. -idgin Io toni one bis collay otf: Jo selmi ofT - 
>{ ovitip «45 bitn aguvom lu eaeabauor edT : 
fairy Svilelited pad) douc) to ssemitoe of T 
si@l faut fi wt thet)? | ont. send? bie 
vi) vb —“apom) 21H of nentow # BelestD 7 
Set yoorey fin gia [in : i hoot aedT 
ma . we ~ mole opto w 4 wa bod asedW 
| * . 7 
{ - i 
Pa As 
. ] : 
shiallid off} ; hy 1 owt ILI) TORIA® OF Gao 
st ; i? ils) ue 
=f ro ; ) how juno. 1 jodiaT bla boos 
i . . .? 9 4 ] TiodZ atslena 
a TS70i) of ervat dedaa of§ grail 
pian - woly 9d) eeyivb  wirtal odd 
: i¥¢ 
, uA an » vl ona moblos ad) oral 
aE “oly Ses tal oqevebaal oft 4intee 
as * - Tempe lo wb saizolo od) bak 
binw ' , moe , an WT » 
; fe ss a hind 8 se—oliaoer ved 
oe emia eee ae aobasigs al 9 sansdaoom ads rede 
nile a elias = Va RZalllot w¥s oft ag 
vAnwi Was ) i ait) ate 2 abala of L, auiws 96 pile n ont i. a 
BATA) . , eV i’ OS) 2B 
pL Wat 2elll } rm alt ao Jrifot bas tid salvo vt 
tal Crevite Usd peda ake 
bat Yen acm woow said i at?’ tetwo bas slwroodt iD; 
eiale off Mae Woy caild of f ‘(ab odd Ie aaitols ads in 
—~«#vit wven worms. etedw 
“auth teran difebosit? boa alsloty orf) ban eenor ail? & 
: : Ue eff) of suqate 


MA40OKMAH THAWOR Ui edd no tare i 
be teeon * p1ls) gilt to — ‘ae 


Le 


ri esi sy oh 





Elkton 


Elkton was a place of importance many years before the revolution. It was a 
grain-shipping center, and because of its location at the head of the Elk river, was known 
as the “Head of Elk.” The town ‘was officially incorporated as Elkton in 1787. The 
postoffice was established about 1809. 

Elkton is distinguished by the fact that « was the birthplace of the Bentztown 
Bard, which event occurred—says our informant, in a log house on Bow street. One is 
not surprised, it was just like the Bentztown Bard to do a thi ing like that. America’s 
greatest sons were born in log cabins, and it is eminently fitting that the best loved man 
in Maryland—the sweet singer of the Sun, should have chosen for his eatrance into this 
world, that staunch symbol of America—the log cabin. | 

The very atmosphere of Elkton seems to be conductive to poetry. Quoting Mr. 
McKinsey, “Elkton was at one time the center fer a colony of exceedingly efficient literary 
aspirants.” “Here came Emma Alice Browne, the poetess, to meet friends and relatives. 
Here came Amelia Welby, who had immortalized the Chesapeake Bay with her poem, 
“Storm on the Chesapeake.” There were other distinguished names, weli known in the 
business and social life of that time. 

Among the old places of outstanding interest. there are Partridge Hall, built before 
1750. Tobias Rudolph House, built in 1768. WHoily Hall, built in 1802. It is now a 
modern progressive little city, but the Bentztown Bard says of it, “It is a town so sweet 
with fragrant memories that there is ieally no room for conventional history.” 

Maryland is essentially a land of poets, and picturesque Elkton has furnished her 
quota. Among the many well known writers of verse residing in Elkton, may be noted 
Miss Orvilla Gilpin, who was signally honored by being asked to contribute a poem to the 
King Edward VIllth, Coronation Book of Verse. Mrs. David Frazer, and others. Miss 
Mollie Howard Ash is the well known Genealogist ot the city. At Chesapeake City Mrs. 
Mahlor Stanley writes her declaration of independence—“One Hundred Per Cent Mary- 
lander.” Bless her heart, we feel the same way about it; so does the Bentztown Bard, 
Miss Gilpin, Mrs. Eimer. and all others whose ‘good Seu it is to live under the blue 





skies of Sunny Maryland. 
CHESAPEAKE TWILIGHT 


Sunset has ringed the world with mist, 
The bay is touched with amethyst, 

The day is almost done 

For, two by two, the grey cranes go 

To harbor in the marsh, below, 

Across the setting sun. 


Each silver schooner lies at rest 

Her tall spars black against the west, 

Each weary sail is furled, 

Above the wind, a last gull calls 

While night like benediction, falls 

God’s blessing on His world. 5 
GENEVIEVE HINMAN FRAZER, 

Elkton, Md. 


EASTERTIDE 
By ORVILLA ADELE GILPIN 


Deep in the presence of the Pastertide 
The promise of new hope and peace abide; 
he flowers of the field whose beauty last 

The woodland’s call whose notes in joy 
are cast. 

The sunlight and the mountain top are 
mine 

The moving sea and shadows of the pine 

And trees that lift my soul to Heaven, 
stand 


Page Ninety Four 


To lead me on across the burning sand. 

As night to morning turns, and then the 
day 

Again becomes the darkness on its way, 

So life in its full beauty, too, shall fade 

In order that a greater crown be laid 

And with it sheaves of lilies from their 
fold 

For whiter altars at the Cross of Gold. 


ONE HUNDRED PER CENT 
MARY LANDER 
I live in a quaint little village down in 
Maryland 
With the Elk river flowing by my door; 
There are many other streams, 
But always in my dreams 
It’s the dear old Eastern Shore. 





I was born and bred in Dixie, 
Where the Red Man’s arrows used to fly, 
Now it’s streamed line cars— 
And way up in the stars, 
The airplanes go droning by. 
When my work is done in Dixie, 
Let me rest with the Red Man gone before, 
Neath the weeping willow tree 
Will be Paradise to me 
Down on the Kastern Shore. 
MRS. MAHLOR STANLEY, 
Chesapeake City, Md. 


’ 
| 






oi Rte ol ben! bos avd saw I a 
(eh ds “bent eRbies. o WA DOR dF orenal att) GIA Akt ' 
-—e1sh sall bona: si wat ebtirotgnd afd Yo Ponsa ai ; 


S30)u! -s08 cai belt wdt dite tect em ted 



































* 2 ae 7 

8 enw 1 .nonulove: si noid emg, eo ae st do coal, nw 
mwend enw wn Mt ois Yo leewtl ont te aiel #1 bo 3 swucosd t a sate nq qt 
off = .S8Ul at eel eo baepenal Ptescuiiter esr rierar | 0” bea” 
cat se Sal me ack 

awaisiasd adj lo gonigdinud ods pew ay todo gank oot itch podeiergaimib 2i ass 
#onf) svue woll no sod yol & a Mermelns wie evoe—horms90 3 [> a 4 
eeomomA snds a grids 6 ob 03 Bielh fwerytnstl ott ail ey ke eins 
ane bovol texd ori) tor geo ri ylinoninne a it bas andes gol at i pred | 
at) alti sanevics cid 10d movoro ova blonde saws orld Jo 1oyaw toowe 
sude> yol ode—r yaw to fodmye ~Loe f 

al yenout) ¥itveq oF rt isaulyney OC} eit ria Ye nodqronite nov : 
Visio storie ¢ beh Joye Hoo # Tabamtass sc) 201) sno is eon eordld” 5 
2ovilsin bus ebaenl tom of zenedg aff sami 2A emma sme alt” ; 
ort rel Dy (OH saan oft Gidhisision prii« lined othr yellow ailornA rm 
whi awond ow zit bysrlesny ystiteils tate mew ood sdtoqeeadD ods ¢ 
o- mt yds YH stil leer’ bas’ ex i 

suis! tied lish oybounnl ne seeks owie: yotbus.sezu0 to esonlq blo od) nue aA 
swore i .O08! ni sled eH vioH Bot! ni tliud suo dqlobu A ecidoT 
i3 me wold & 3 . yee brett wwe oh wd wis stil wiengnd @ vob 
Celi Isnonnoynes ial men @n vile a sod) pels zonomsmn ney teh, 


} 
} 


vod borlzinis! eed ox : qupe yess me ~P20g ID bed u ciasnsar zi baaly 


heen ad yan ys [oi gripe sev lo eri owed Tow ymem sd3 gnomA (am 
silt o7 x} & sudiNINO OF bodes yried vd banoeod om aye enw ondw sialiod alli oan 
sit c3 ; ; Tl ; alt wJ9716/ 40 dnuil ul tanoral) aulliv tnowbad GT 
21M yuO sdaoqezod } » WH jo Reyolkonv) avons ths w oth 21 dzA hbnawok 






































(wa 305 : ; tl Le, mnsbneesbar to as veld yor esirrw yolnnie 
banat : ot] le 3+ Suenia vaw pe orl: loa? ow need x00 eeolll “ ot. 
auiG ort yobs N 4 onunat boog sealw maiso iit bas soxevd 2 a oi 
-basigeM ynoue joa 
ha s weseirti : 0 1 hao! uT rooris wr BUAATABA 
ref pai? : oY} JdBin wA 5 
raid) Jel iw bhnow oft begait sat 
» od eomoosn sume detiivers dttw Lodovot at gag 4 
? ti at slit oF snob oats a the 
; g : joes »; al Of somn19 TOrg ot ,owy Yd <¢ 
say 4 alii In « a 9) y tea woled sytem of) of 1ode 
: io} ive yattios stor 
t «) +a ij Mi Taeti v 4 
ae leat Ja aoll toao0odes 2 he 
va) Hat CMNaZ IA AYO Jevw of) tenlegu Asuld wteqe § 
HAGZAATHAIE .beinut #f fine vis 
Hl agWod gRality ofJjth Inicup a2 ni evil J ao ilog Jesl « .baiw edi «@ 
ha ioe al tay .ololbaued eAll . 
7005 tit “6 zaiwef wir dIG oft A bho ei so witie 
kee osdio yaem om eat AHASART ZAAMAL AVAIVEYE 
. 6A AOA bh i eyewhs sou bine orld ; y 
Py “WWIaHhs ey i blo teh ott 2H 2? dypep oe) © ORM 


ast Tere Cm 


@tsie ot) ai qe (ew hah = jehids eseuq han a Roe Andy 
14 gainoTh on senmigti 48T deel zidead seal ww 
WRT gt eneh al diew vor noiW = 86yet al enton peat w eb son 


i wolliw sehyovw off dee? ‘ete Gos nintenok eb ae | 
ent of ehibstaY ad fj 


wote aeseell wd) go wvoll > locas od by eae 





SRIAATC HOIHAM .2NM 
RM ooo aOR, 





aot 


Federalsburg 


- Federalsburg, Maryland, U. S. A—a little Fastern Shore vewn, like thousands of 
other little towns—but because it is the one in which I live, I think it is ever so much 
nicer. And also, because I love to wrap ali iay icelings in dreams of the past and of the 
future, even as I walk along ovr modern Main Street. | sometimes think how it must 
have looked when, instead of pretty houses, busy stores, churches, bridges, neatly clipped 
lawns and all sorts of friendly folks, Federalsburg was only an Indian settlement with 
tepees and camp fires, squaws with papooses sizapped on their backs,—Indian braves in 
all their war paint sitting around their fires on the banks of the little stream , 
There is nothing here now to remind us of these far off days, but even so, there is some- 
thing rather unusual about our town. Perhaps it is the way it is laid out—with the long 
Main Street beginning at the foot of Hillcrest Cemetery and ending at the Railroad 
station—rather symbolic, like the beginning ana tne end of life. I love the thought of 
Hillcrest, standing guard as it were, over the town, from its gently sloping hill, so 
comfortingly close to the teeming life of the town—like a reassuring reminder to the 
folks, that when they must go, they will not have to go very far and will remain forever 
a part of the soil they loved. 

Federalsburg is a town of everyday folk, the kind that goes to make the backbone 
of a great nation—a town of laughter arid tears, of hard work, little loves and little 
feuds, pretty babies and naughty kids, struggling youth, handsome middle age and 
satished old folks, lovely girls, attractive women, strong men—a sprinkling of would be 
wickedness—only skin deep—, a rather wistful hankering after sophistication that looks 
slightly ridiculous to more experienced eyes—but a town also altogether able to pass 
the test of courage and fortitude and endurance, of floods and fires and epidemics. A 
chimney catches fire and immediately the Volunteer Fire Company turns out en masse 
to help—someone is ill and the whole community is concerned—there is a flood and every- 
one takes it bravely on the chin and helps his neighbor and makes light of his own 
misfortune. 

Stull, all this does not make Federalsburg really different from other small towns, but 
there.are-other things, ... «+... 

Federalsburg has a Mayor who is a real Philanthropist—a man who has served the 
community in his official capacity for more than twenty-five years on a nominal salary 
which he turns back immediately into the public exchequer, for the express benefit of his 
pet philanthropy! the happiness and welfare and safety of the youth of the town. He has 
donated great strips of land and had them converted into lovely parks, with play grounds, 
swimming pools, lovely walks—a place where children can play safely away from danger- 
ous traffic—and we are so used to the kindness and generosity of our Mayor that I fear 
we are taking it altogether too much for granted. 

And on our Main Street, there is a house, a pretty, old fashioned house, which 
shelters countless treasures of antique furniture, old glass, priceless china, hand made quilts 
and hand woven rugs of exquisite patterns and workmanship—delicate carvings and en- 
gravings, but most astonishing of all a RUSSIAN SAMOVAR. A real one, which bears 
an inscription in Russian and upon which are engraved two likenesses of Russian Czars. 
A beautiful, incongruous thing, something before which one wants to draw a chair, and 





relax and dream . . . A person could easily be hypnotised by the dull gleam of its 
brass, into seeing figures, moving like shadows of the past . . . for who knows whence 


this beautiful thing came from, what happiness or tragedies it has been a witness to. 
Couldn’t it have been the last Romanofis themselves who drank tea poured from. its 
paunchy little brass tea pot—whose aristocratic hands tended the charcoal fire—? T can 
see gentle faced Nicholas II sitting before an open tire in his summer palace of Tzarkoie- 


Page Ninety Five 


on Aan issn miso pirat nth ti enn a 





























































| a? * 
be ‘ ae aa aS 


to ebacevors oti wave wal? te sh Ahk an: 

dowen oz yov9 i Hi dos | .ovil T Asidw al ste ads we vasabad tual 
a43 to hae teu orl to-amonb ni eu niles (ha Ye aerw o) ovol | a 
ramen ti ward Joiidls eeeudonabien 1 son nie weston: 10 yoole lew 
Layqiis ylisa yoybrd zdowds 2am youd pawn yng to beseni rsd 


diaiee snsteiiiee ncibal ne vino sew grisdel shyt ale? (busi do’ enoe He bi 


a esverd neibol— «dord old ne bop come?) diiw eweype 2h qaves bi 

, mea simi od: lo aa a +t wo V9 wai) bavow gninsie sted” vew vie od? 
omer tr spor? .ae nove sud .2vels Po aed soit oe bron of won joed yoidion a at of 
gteol arid rh) ‘ne brel 2 gv odd 20H ering irwor we tueds Igueunty wade 9 ni dt 
bworlrcd 


aft in gathers bie nommsD dlild te stood sdpte gninnigad iene nie 
19 thywors ode seal 1+ old 16 bad oA¥ oe Pirnwienod old sail otlodtnys 799 n1- j 
ar {lid gmqole yvline mont swat 3) tye sow ta leg guiboae ae hie 
28) OF SLANT gANteaKe 24:1—nwes st to oli! ueitnasar odd? a) ols v 

iowwrot msrin fiw bus ist ov og-of sve Gon Uiw vores oy umn yods nodw aedvy 
-bevol yods live oy Yo 


nod uoext acts 0 y tert beed sft gliet vebewivs lo aor & zi yrurdeler ae 
ian baer esvol sofiil jira is: to atf2) bun yidauel-io mwot e—noiian isorg + 
t , : retuey ilwpiuyty a Oriousn bre sided YitStE 
thrower 3 wryzl 7 4 NNW LIST svuse! hry visvol wala blo baal 
sical md) Te iwéncd lelwiw werllcr 2 —aqssb atde yluo—seanbadsit 
ee ; : rs 1 tu 6579 beonenegz> samt oF evolusibis ybdgi 
é > ii Doe 2 tio .ontivinie bes sburinal baa BRIO to i 4 
enn 1 ) yoarned nl weenie oh yierhormmi bas nf edi el nth 
4zk ‘ f yor? e venti shoriw as ine ih 2 >rornoe—qled ay 
neew ent te ideil elem bre wd ( wilod baw 1 


wiiy of} oO (lovind it edad re 
Snooth 

yal yy ii its ror ”~mn 7 WielGyobod ode ton esob adi ie hs 7 

. =gaids rordlto om 

bow l odw ner roanAinalidl lnn & & odw vovel4 & Pr grudelesbFT 


Cele . yt molt olen Yet yWioegns Tatoo ed ob yin 
otra sepwe: 130! ,t9 laxe aildad adi ofan ylorottorment soed emo ad 
t galt Yeo tere aed peice bith tilow baw eesasqgqud oft lyqorsiiinl 
aha y vale ritear ea ‘Ol ote Givi aro? bed ban bakl de air teanyg Be 
iogneh mot vows ¥ feiq ano ttorllids née sonle o—~-edtew viovol zinc yoiener 
vest | toc town wo bo gtieossesg brn esclinit od: on bow of See" Sw hets——il 


bxtimty tel dour ony tarlisvorls. ii ynial st vets 
diy seved bevoidest blo .uewy «6 sthel wm s13d1 soe gialh sue ao bad 


ciiun esbom leet asi ony 2enly blo. owtieny) spins io zene eeobingo3 
to DIM etunvdny on (leeusabeerw been: efile] shensipZs lox UM) tovew heses-ts 
cued foutw sna ti AK 3 AAVOM Fa A ie 72° 3H « lic to qrtideinicites worn judd 


6x) neiezuA lo wmeonsdil owt baviogys oie dyulw ogy bas nee A mi avian 
lax itt b vert os elated one diohidien 3 nots Lula yards PUOMIBNAMT clushie 
en Wy nisl : Tih sry vas sporty oa lives Dives mewrwe 4 a minh bas 
ireiy evond one rol . lexq ot te ¢#obade oi! patvom anuyht tao Ott 
oo vem 6 oped rol a eotheyew wo seanigged tech anol ome 5 late od 
-a) ato) bow gw dnl aie ~yviverawh 2lionnrnod tant ode nied ovull ‘an yh 


nea b S~-ont begets ot holes ebred AMO rie aa eo setae y Rasy, ud) 












“wares to oaliq Waters vl ot ant Mage me sod yaiatic TY { 


a - ag ; ae 
i wal md : ; : ! 







ot ian ag 





Continued 


Federalsburg 


Selo—his pretty daughters grouped around him—a tall Cossack entering the shadowing 
room, carrying in his strong arms the precious burden of the frail heir to the tottering 
Russian throne, the young Czarevitch—and I can see the beautiful, sad eyed Czarina 
hovering around the boy as he is being lowered into a soft couch—and there is a little 
laughter, a babble of young voices—a pretty maid in Russian National costume manipu- 
lates the Samovar, fills the tank with water, and the tea ball with fragrant tea picked and 
packed especially for the Czar’s family And soon the little gauge jumps up and 
down, steam whistles insistently, the water is boiling and poured over the tea and the 
first draught of the amber liquid is for the Great Czar of all Russians—and he smiles 
kindly as he takes the tall glass in its silver holder—a rather pitiful smile—his eyes 
look upon this beloved family of his with deep tenderness and aftection—and his black 
beard hides the weakness and irresolution of his mouth and chin . . . All this and 
so much more I can see in the gleaming sides of the Samovar on Main Street . . . . 

And in our town there is a man who built himself a tiny castle into which he has 
piled his dreams—helter skelter—a tiny castle with a pointed roof, stained glass windows— 
an open fire place, queer paintings and drawings on the walls—a grand piano heaped up 
with a strange medley of music sheets, hymn books—Chopin Sonatas and Army songs— 
there is an incense burner that fills the room with a pungent mist and spreads drowsiness 
around while the bright flames in the fire place lick the dark recesses of the chimney-— 
small treasures are scattered all around—trom far away places—India, China, Africa, 
Turkey, Mexico, South America . . . The castle is too small for its occupant and his 
fantastic dreams and they spill out into a yard filled with bright concrete blocks—vividly 
painted bird’s houses, colored stones—tiny pools—weeping willows, Howering shrubs— 
like the castle of the Dwarfs in Snow White 

And at the other end of the town, there is another dreamer, who lives in a stately 
mansion, with pillars and arches and porticos and conservatories . . . a house also 
filled with art treasures, jealously guarded—dreams that are not allowed to go forth and 
' ee 

Things like that make me love this town—for although it appears cynical and hard 
boiled and rather common place, I do know that it holds dreams, and visions—and hearts 
capable of great love and lofty aspirations—great devotion and all these things that go 
into the making of history and romance—things that will eventually find their rightful 
place, later, in the musty records of the history of our times—to be read by future 
generations. 





MADELINE L. de FRIES DION, 
Federalsburg, Md. 





Good impulses come knocking at my 
heart 

With every morning sun, 

And I am happy all the day 

If I open just to one. 

Bid every doubt and fear begone, 

Put by all foolish pride; 

Where love is King no caste or creed 

Can e’er our hearts divide. 


Page Ninety Six 


ee pete , ‘ cm Je goblivuy emos dosivgal bood ~ pW 
me PA eee . 4 “f 
Bee ee 2 anu cea 





yaiwoberle ods geizosere domeeoD: Mat aegurid havohe. bs 
goiisves sci od rind liett oz to mold 2 ott acre, 
ashes boys bez Juisuced oft sae ned | ae doaiven ns: 
alk 6 2i s107) bor—dgaoo tore one t yaiod 2 
-<uqiaem omuseo> lenounA aseewd mi. Wing &—e22I0" 1 
bre bedoig wa Inerget! thiw Med ems galt faiew rhiw dow 
ib qu ayia, AUER aba ads apoe binds a. . honed 2 wx2 > 
ody bac sot adi rx70 bawoy bas a rote orl “thn 
clin of bas—encieeawh Ile jo = yen wit, wi a fog, 
woy> vid-—slione luting vols e—tldod srl ai ni 6 
Aredia aid bae—ooisitc bne zeanidbmas geob duw zi to pig emia 
maeab lA . . . ols bos dtvem td jo sonvlorni hes. 
‘ yond ault uo mroamed oth le eal yaicaly odd ai a02 neh 
etsl on dotdw oan slveo youd 9. Mode sled ody oon & 2i-orodt es 
ewobniw aeely bonice ,toor bsinieg @ diiw shee yaoi o-—r lode 13 
q¥ boqsod oasig bausg o—ellew out cy egnivr boe syniaing 1p saul 2 
—zance yimA bas astcac2e oyodD-edoad gewql ztade oauth to yslborn. 
nonwenb ebenge bre tien Jnognug w dive soon orld ellit ted3 waned goa 
yoni st lo eorxzeo0m sreb silt dal sanlg awi ald nt zunali Idgind ais 2 
worms umd tbal—esaelq yeves 18 mott—bevore Un bogies oe. 
id bre inequoze a tad llerne oot ai sthugs oA T .. . @aomsé dru2d 
(ibtviy—edsok) siamo idgnd dtiw doll Brey & om two flige gods base 
~whinde ganswoli 2velliw gaiqoaw—eleag pni—csaor baolos jeer 'b 
: md woud ni 2ewCl ont do Je he: 
(lagta e ni coil edn oomesnb robene ab ged) .nwvor oft tebee adro ols 30 bm 
peuori . enaenevno bis eetitieq bax ais bas avlliq : 
lure ssvat on oF ‘tewolls jon oe tal, ae bobyaug venole >; ASE yoy 


bored bee laaays ocoqgqe n dgaordile aal-nwor els val om sagem aad) all : 
net brae—anori Loo zmestl ebhk shag worl ob | conky aanuior vedi fend 

ny duel egos seal Il Lae aouersh weigveoncuiqze wlol bos sel 16913 ‘4 
iaitdan sind bet glisutesve [ive sere ayult—sroene bam noni to gat 
mut vd ben od otemrnp we to vuend odt lo elnoon wenn sdb ni: 


MOM 2404 ob iw SVLINCAM 
bM wdelpsbol 




























= 





} 


om tin wqqed onl head 
ho OF 


a9 
bwet> 10 Seay on pial al o ‘ 
bib Caos wd 194 OOD 


> * 
ae 


Galena 


Galena was incorporated in 1858. It was known as “Downs’ Cross Roads” as earlv 
as 1763, and was later called “Georgetown Cross Roads.” (1803.) Never knew why it 
was called Galena. 


FRANK RUTH 


OLIVET 
The M. BE. Cemetery, Galena, Md. 


Tread lightly, I pray thee, ye sons of the earth, 
Refrain from indulgence in frivolous mirth; 
As here on these marbles you view the last page 
Of Life’s fitful drama—last act on its stage. 
God’s acre—ah yes—where the past looms above 
All else of the world with a passionate love; 
Where mem’ry flits over a cycle of years, 
Recalling their pleasures—their deluge of tears. 
God’s acre—ye sacred, ye bless-ed retreat, 
Who dare would pollute thee with unhallowed feet? 
No voice from your fastness—no tongue ever calls— 
The Echoes are quiet—a dread silence falls. 
A silence supreme, ’tis the hush of the dead 
That lulls the night winds as they sweep over head. 
The stars hold their vigil through summer and frost, 
Keep watch o’er our loved ones—the friends we have lost. 
The birds of the forest and those of the glen 
Sing sweetest when ’bout thee; and often ‘’tis then 
The owl in the gloom from his perch up above 
Gives heed to the slumber of those that we love. 
Our loved ones lie here ’neath the turf and the rose, 
As they sleep through Eternity’s quiet repose; 
The angels seem present, seem hovering near 
The sod that enshrouds them-—protecting them here. 
Sleep on my belov-ed,—no dreams come to you 
Of him who is waiting reunion with you; ; 
About us, between us the deep Hidden Mist, 
Through which we’ll soon meet in one long endless tryst. 
Sleep on my belov-ed,—nor trouble nor fear 
Disturbs the calm rest of the Glorified here; 
Sleep on through the ages where years you have lain 
Awaiting the day when I’m with you again. 
God’s acre—ye blessed, ye holy retreat, 

. How near you must be to God’s merciful seat; 
I love thee, ah yes, ‘tis your dust and your mold, 
The bond that affection will never withhold. 
So,—-bring me at last to this spot on the hill, 
When to me the Old World has forever grown still; 
Just lay me aside of my kindred, my own, 
For here would I rest with the loves I have known. 





FRANK. H. RUTH. 
Galena, Md. 


Page Ninety Seven 


Or — 


eee Es 


vhe> es 
lt vow 


(JA AMAAA 


HT JA 


“eheod zeoa’) ‘2nwoll” 
wood va 


owen avwil D sevel 


H AVART 














 - oe 
ae Paes» ecw wf 2781 ni boleiogio 
(.€081) “cheatl saad alana: banal botien vot 


~~ teh 


wraps 


<)> = 








































































4“¢ ° 


i f = AD nal 
TH 7810 P 
bM .anstie® .v1etens? 9 .M dt 
J 

ood) yeiq U “idail best 
srsaivbat mory ciation by 
diag gead) oo sted eA 
daele atone tho Jenl--smath tosh aethh YO./ 
vt sInOGl teeqg of) siedw -—#0% d&-—1ns a hod 
‘val otantinesy ao filw Blow ef) lo eale 1A 
Hiewe ro eloyo a 19¥0 4A erent aad WT 


rine af) Ww enor az 
finite etolevin? 
sanq Jeni eit weiv wor a 


1293 jo saniel sied}- tenth tied! gaiflawsaA © 4 
inetie’ be-sesld ay .botomy ot--91928 ahead ot 
1 bewolladay dliw eed: sialiog binow sisb ofVi _ b 
ites 7978 GUAR) off-—sz9 Jee) toe mori etic? OA 7 
lind s9aette baetbh s—ieinp ots avodea edT 


anb of} to Meod od) 2! menage goualia A 
heod fo eevee te) as aboiw tdgin ed) allel sedT. ~ 


aa 4 iWe devoid listv aed) blod aigte odT 
heeiud outs 1 boval wo 18'o dolew qooxwt 
tela of? Io saret S& e570) SHY Yo gbitd sdT 
' » wit Hi ben . veil! ood’ pede tegdeawe gn. 
ju doisg at) mont aools od) at lwo ed? 
w tne) iv ivedictile ad? a) beed esvit) abs 
atta! eli diaen’ sted all esa0 hs70! 190 


1 IMWp eyes dayerd: qasla yod) aA 


anlievod mess o1g mess alopun of T 3A 
' a10%" tee tani bos «fT 
C1 ao aieth oF hy-roted yar 10 qeala 
wot dw whiner sattixe a@& odw min 10! 


bOI? qoub att) av oovwtad an inetaA 
low daldw dave? 
be-voled yat go qaata@.-- 
ered Letina ods lo i997 wlan off sdanield 
ad voy rtANE Veiw axae on! Manat? no quale 
ingen bot Bliw ia'l weitlw web ods goitlewaA, ~ 
Jovtion qlod sq .bereel! ey—ens «be 
iao2 tay viva! ¢ bul) ») od teem wet i808 WoH 
hbevn woyY bite Jeoh iwoy ati’ % te #seni avol I 
bioddirw 19ve0 tliw oolrvatiw peas brood odT 
ATH af) ay doje eis of seal te oot gaitd —oB 
lida wwotes te¥S903 bod fino WwW BTO ed? om of aedW 
ane tn betboit wt te ables on Yel seyh 
lt hw seed bivow-eied wt 


‘ 


2 "hit? ay Jere ji rene 


Leland) wanes 


sor1 Wil 


q 





-b sasisd 


Greensboro 


In November 179] the General Assembly of Maryland authorized the purchase of 
“any quantity of land not exceeding one liindred acres contiguous to Choptank bridge.” 
This was to be surveyed and erected uxto a village te be called Greensboro and takes in 
what was originally known as Bridgetown. Bridgetown was the site of the county court 
which was held there for four sessions->-November, Dec. 1778, june 1779, Oct. 1779, 
March 1780. These sessions were said to have been held in the Almshouse. 

On the Main street of Greenskcro adjacent to Four Corners stand two Ailanthus trees, 
separated by less than six feet, their sturdy trunks and towering tops telling of the passage 
of time. The story goes that almost 2 century ago when the house was built what is now 
the sidewalk formed a narrow front yard. ‘The owner brought home his young bride and 
together they planted two slender trees, one on either side of the gateway. 

Time passed and the slender trees grew until their massive trunks and overhanging 
branches formed an archway beneath which swung the gate. As the years rolled on the 
hand of time rested heavily on the house, on the inmates, on all save the trees, which stand 
like faithful sentinels casting their shadows on tne third generation who stand beneath at 
the Ailanthus gateway. One of the oldest buildings in Greensboro is the Tilden House, 
probably erected about 1844. 








THE FRIENDS MEETING HOUSE 


On the South side of the town along Maple Avenue may be seen a plot of ground 
marked by two marble slabs—these are of a comparatively recent date—1862 and 1864, 
but they serve as a landmark and carry the mind back to the days of long ago. Folklore 
tells of the burying ground—The God’s Acre of the Quakers—that lay there. 

Greensboro is rich in history, folklore and legend, but space is not available here to 
tell the story. For these brief excerpts we are indebted to “The History of Caroline 
County,” edited by Edward M. Noble at Denton, Md. 





THE GOOD OLD DAYS 


Gone are the good old days— 

Long dead the ‘‘Rubes’’ and ‘‘Hicks; 
Town lots are now for sale 

In what was once the “‘Sticks.’’ 


” 


The bootleggers have a union— 
And all the girls drink booze; 
Cows give prophylactic milk, 
And pug dogs are wearing shoes. 


We swallow our days in capsules, 
And the race is on with time, 

It is “‘hello,’’ ““whowdy,’’ “‘goodbye all!”’ 
A dollar is less than a dime, 





The women are wearing mustaches 
: The men are shedding their legs; 
Only one thing’s left of the good old days—— 
Thank God for ham and eggs! 


Page Ninety Eight 


enc sp tet ea a A STAC LI 




































wait gs 





to watauq >it besinoritue boalinl le ew edo aft 1 | ve ss 
"aghind dnniqod) 01 azo: 2yinn? ean hentoaet gay ynibosoxs ph noew) 
m zode7 bre avotlts noni) lrelea od of ogely ¢ duu Lorne bae “ 29 

UG? YH uit Wo ote oft pow nove bist MVOtsgQhAd es awond : nig) 


: 
: 
; 
j 
‘ 
OU 2) UT! onrts | AVE a Tadeo ets: 1 vol 919 aoe 
| ’ seuodaen!A ot ai bled teagel 2fen o ‘ice hadad enone 
aso) eortingshA owt baer eemc) va ow moreibs oodenonD to Joe night ods nO 
. ogeercq alt to grille eqo: univer bing eda ple ried toot aie aed aesl yd bat 1 
won a tet thod enw 1 now Gon THis) & teomile tert 290g TOR sft nd ke 
bes sbnd ynuoy eid smod iduuod enw sat tae’ dnc) woven & beemol ser yt! 
TOwwns » i? abe F989 fo oo 2957) wlohe ow? bornnly Lag 9 
gaiynedovo bare anu nem tis tog AY 29011 eal oy bus bse 
ols no bsilon e1ee% 5 , ay xis gnaw duty dite nad yewdnes ns boanol yar: 
bnew sisi come oils lle no .2.eek BB ne 200; ie ne ¢livesd boss smi. 30 tin 
: is ditons! boast ofv the y tain oh ao sheeonrhe sacl) ynies> elonitnsa husteaied 
evokt nmoblt tT sets 2x « ; ye) wernt sbaniel walla oft to onO Vewoley erg ds 
. FPRT quodh bates yldeder 





. _ —— — oe 
| 


JOH OMITAAM 20OVA181 FHT 


hnweorn kh lj # ma52 of fi ustovs. ted enol vai wl to shim diwode sry nO 
. 4 -] Poepe : sict 7 vel Verna &£& tT Shi Pe ri ly slice owl yd baat 


olttcl os | dond bate att en ce Aembed 6 ee vie odem 
' vorid tas y~—q () witte ot xl ) afl r. oe olnad oily Jo alla 
! ai 7 a if ! hee wmolvlol snot fm doin ti orodensnD) 


snilens’} Ye worl! adi : | ; Ma oy eiqiooxe iow! sew a6 pot ode ie 
“elt .neeet oe ido Iv haewbal wel bons "wine 





















a 
oa 


(7.0 40 TO) AT 


‘nh fie Boog otf? ote onoD 

istti’ toe “sedah a? beel arr.) 
sue WO won on esl nwet 

atolia” al) Geen eaw tadw al 


~tiohaw a sad giecashood fT 
opon® suith altia 4d) Ue hah -- 
alii 44aleheoig aevta ewodD 

aocde gtiieeW en apeb ave bHA 


anwégna mi agmh ine sollgee ow 
ott aiiw no et sort oft bad 
“tHe otibeeg” ~ thwoad™ * oll ioul™ al $7 7 
> * atih « va aol @ rettod A 


cedoatmm 2uhtnew «16 somow edt 
tepel weil) gaihbedes orn nei eth - 25° ae om 
~wieb blo boo fi. de fet ean) eae vind 
tera bun wud ve) bel) daedT r 





. 


Greens boro—continued 


; TIDEWATER TOWN 


Past the sleeping town, the sleepy river flows, 

Flows and ebbs in turns of lazy tides. 

High banks and alternating lowland meadows lie 

On either hand, and marshy islands, old river bottoms. 
Spring time trails the sweet arbutus over banks, 

Sweet perfumes and bird calls fill the sweet drugeed air. 
The herring from the sea return to their homeland; 

And many blunder into fish nets set 

Cleverly in the cluttering well staked hedges. 


High on the bank the town’s hfe ebbs and flows— 
A pleasant, sluggish current of unhurried business. 
High tide on week-end nights, 

Low tide on hot midsummer afternoons 

When the hot sun glares and whitens 

Antique buildings ’round the old ‘‘ Four Corners.’’ 


The children grow, but few escape to the 
Brisk, clear air of Northern cities: 
They learn to dream in Tidewater Town. 
Long lazy afternoon the little shavers stroll, 
Learn river lore, practice shooting, 
Drift on Mother Choptank, poling ancient boats. 
Leaning on the bridge rail, fire-fly-flecked nights, 
They wonder, wonder, and dream their lives away. 
Little they care—life’s tide seems always full 
By our sleepy river, ‘‘Stream of Many Curves.”’ 
Lewis M. Cross, 
Greensboro, Md. 








Goldsboro 


Goldsboro, near neighbor to Greensboro, had its inception in the completion of the 
Railroad in 1867. Despite its newness—as compared with the older towns, Greensboro 
is not lacking in that peculiar charm associated with the Eastern Shore towns. Slightly 
digressing, where else but on the Eastern Shore would you find a name as musical as 
“Dogwood College.” Reading it, one does not visualize austere schoolmasters and dry-as- 
dust lectures, but ivy covered buildings come to mind, low rambling structures flanked by 
masses of dogwood blossoms, more beautiful because of the cross made by the Devil's 
teeth. “Barcus” is a name to conjure with, Charles Dickens comes back from the past, 
and the age-old query of “What's in a name?” answers itself in “Bee Tree.” The 
Caliph of Bagdad would have enjoyed a stroll thru Caroline county. 


Page Ninety Nine 


a a 
eee a= 


abe 


























oil ewobsodt birnl wot gutter ratte ben 2 
eittohiod ‘rovit hilo ehutishad ile wet ban Da 
#dned 1970 eutadin Jove old alin) of 

The bongu’ th toowe ot A ative btid haw e 
; busisaroil aod) ot stmt poe ond pre 

toa eton daft otni sobanid-ynautt 

soho haddte lew guitottnils sult mi yl ® 


—v volt bits edd oil 2 wot odt dned oft a6 igi 
eouiend betrimda To teorius deiggula jase a 
@lilgin buo-deow ao abit . 
enoormtis somnrnebio tod wo abil we 
siotliw baw 2etely use dod od) codlW 
 e1sato) 110% ble silt bust sgaiblind supitaA 


of) of oaaee wot ind ~vorg uetblideo ofT 
, #9ith mrailinoZ% Yo tin tale deine 
| oT setwersbiT «i meth of wae vodT oo 
. diotta eommie Sit af) noonteite yal gnol’ — 
| ait foddle oth MST] tol vi 
wisod lovions aide Jantqoad) quhiolh a0 Nin 9 
ehigin bodoaleghonit. fin oghind od? no gained.” 
(ows #9vil til aeseth bes «obuew aehnow yodT 
(let =virwle aoe ship estilo vod? sittil 
‘aevi) tell To mee sovin yqoola a0 Yeh 

wenn) ft alrwaal 

bY ,orodenset) 


——e 


orodablo 


2h? lo naveslqetes ad) nt novi 2h, bed saeeleeen) of veddyron 3.90 
mxboarne wave reblessds diw bores 2e—ee we a ariel Oat 





* i. 






viiigte snwen nodé mon of) diiw beminee coeds me perposd agie' a 
te levkutn es onca & bail voy Liuew siode miviwed sdf no sud } 

aewb bin eotemnloothe nus safle sin = aeremuctaes oon 90 

id Ievinolt emumeue yeild wol bist of sitios fees ihaes ” 

2 liv] ode vd ohare eecs och fo heer aunckiold boowyab No “ed 

ey od) mnt docd exes eet ohedD dite thin siren & at “vane” A 

afT “sor sof" ot thet aswens “Somer & ot 2 tad” i 7 | “f ek a 1 

E fom colonel eae Sane bebged - 


Ci or a 


ordi yteniA oget ; Me 


Flebron 


Hebron was established in 1890, it was named by the late General Joseph B. Seth, 
of Easton. While it is a town of brief history, it is not unmindful of the traditions of the 
past. 

Two venerable landmarks standing nearby, the old Spring Hill Church in which 
services are still held, built in 1773, and old Green Hill Church, erected the same year, 
are well preserved to the present day. 

Bishop Stone served the Spring Hill Church for many years. This weatherbeaten 
structure was the center of intellectual, moral and social life of a high order in early 
Colonial days. The Church contains the antique altar, furniture, high box pews and 
balcony for slaves used during the ante-bellum period. Spring Hill Church is officially 
known as St. Paul’s P. E. Church. 

Quantico, six miles from Hebron, according to tradition, was once an Indian village. 
The name means “A Place of Dancing.” 

Quantico has a haunted house, but the ghost has not appeared for several years. 
Ghosts do not thrive in progressive communities. After the burning of the old Tavern 
at Quantico—where the Virginia Reel and the stately minuet engaged the attention of 
the landed Gentry, and a duel was likely to be fought at any time, the ghosts vanished. 
Ghosts must have an atmosphere. No self respecting ghost would live for a minute amid 
the din of commercialism—the tooting of automobiles, and the constant hum of the 
wheels of industry. Enter progress—exit ghosts, goodbye peace, and enter strife. Hebron 
is of the present—Quantico follows suit. 

With every gain there is a loss. Around and about the old Churches flows the 
swelling tide of commercialism. Progress stalks the streets in seven league boots. Sky- 
scrapers appear as if by magic. Walk-a-thons and the tin horns of modern invention 
bellow their raucous message to the denizens of Sodom and Gomorrah. Bank balances 
mount—and everything is on the “up and up?” but the ghosts are gone—they departed 
with the lazy elegance of a day Jong past. 





A bright sunshiny morning—— 
And goodbye, care, you’re gone; 
To the music of our heartbeats 
The world is moving on. 





O happiness my heart 
Is filled to the very brim; 
When the door to love was opened 
Happiness walked right in. 
Once cares encamped about me 
Until my heart was sore, 
But now I’ve learned a little trick; 
I won’t let ’em in any more. 








There’s nothing finer here below 
When things have gone amiss, 
3 Than the light that shines 
From your cottage door 
And a woman’s welcome kiss. 





Page One Hundred 


pallens 2 ae ee ee 


y : saan ‘oa a 


” get ewolt zandoterd’) bie alt svode fae lene A zeal & at susdy niey 



















“( es “ 
us : . 7 
os 
oe a i 

~ Pe . esl eee, 


Eph at AL 


°F 





Tr : 


% ARBE 


132 A riqovol ference) oval oda gd — 
bind 9c 


ot lo covisibeu ads do Iuibniman jog & 


dotdw-ai saod WH yng? ble sap qeibas whenbnst 
dso ome odt be vinudD Wi blo bas 2°01 ai shind , 


web harp 
notesdiadigow aifT jetecy yore ot dod thie gnnge . 


thes a: rab dyid ¢ to stil lnmes baé Toon icumollsan jo noe WS 
bas ewoq vod dui atiowl antl, ee xb 2nininos, dant 
(iciite ei dowd WH gange -Lotraq: mullsd-ome odd gangb beui wre 


tnddd F41 a 
sgeliy nsibal as sone exw nopibay es ghitrovn. unde mont 2olie xik 
‘ganneG to self A* enesen 
aresy ler yot baneqqs jon sad ody ‘gn ted euod botausd & sade 
mavel ble oft to yoimud oft vA piingrotnes pam, ni avinuly ton ob # 
io aonsie od? bagegns Don lois ott bag too cinigniY ods 
-bodainrey neath, at ens yan Ie rebyatort xd ot vioslil eww Joub & eit 30 
bite wenim @« wi sil bluow worlg pny thy of soriqzormis a vied num 2 
ot to mu lh Inssenor ot bne vlidertamye by ynitoo: sdi—meiluiismmos. Io : 
note slew yas bas ona »vdboog Jhody NLD —HeTIBONW vind denetee per 
. tine avoltal paren Spee 






















"a0 jeinod su; ie aarse ni ersovia oda alles org ference jo agi 
nomaevea: ambon io enmod alu ett bas enoid}-o-Alie 7 hen yd ha Tegqs 
zaertalod dnefl Ae nono) hen mobae to ane titvab ants og Wgeteorss oan isd 
lesaqah yuli—on y ie zeady of Sud “ay | ink qu” od} no ai 


Wary gaol rob i Yo Sangals sel 9 


\7 


7 a 


? 





<aiinvont taidenve idahd A - : 
onon oa'0O4 1 .ydbo0o, bad 
sinaiied Ud lo seum edt of 
20 guivom 2# birow efT 





heed tm weniqqad O . 
ahd asf) of Bollf af 





bunsgg anw @ yoob af) aodW ; 
tigi hestiaw seoaiqqaH 
-— “— eo189 


iw. ited cor te: > ea 
;Mokws alin be baaroel ov wom See" 
7+ gibi agstes ae 


4 


panacea) ee —s 







. r , kad aes a ae 
erie. | was <3 agenio sehegotd 
n 


Deere © ot ¢ - sch aides 


He b PO 1-—-Continued 





REV. G. ERNEST WUNDER 


Rev. G. Ernest. Wunder might be just an average preacher-—be that as it may, there 
is a colorful highlight in his career, a human interest story well worth the telling. 


Placed in a home near Hebron in his early youth, he was adopted by Purnell B. 
Melson, and grew to manhood in the neighborhood of Rockawalkin’. He attended the 
little country school, and that, together with life on the farm, constituted his educational 
advantages. 


As a young man he had the usual run of jobs such as railroading, and clerking 
in a country store. But something stirred in the depths of his soul, and he determined to 
enter the ministry. How he did it, no one knows; he says little about it, but he graduated 
from the Theological Seminary at Westminster and took over his first small charge. 
After several successful pastorates, he was assigned to the Methodist Protestant Church at 


Hebron. 


If there were lifted eyebrows when it became known that “Ernest” Wunder was the 
new pastor—no one mentioned it. “One of the boys” was coming back to the only home 
he had ever known. But not as a bov—not as a wanderer or a prodigal, he was return- 
ing as the pastor of an established Church. He was coming back to preach to his old 
schoolmates, to become the spiritual leader of boys with whom he had played on the 
streets of Hebron. 


The good people rallied to his support. His work prospered. In two years time the 
income of the Church was doubled, and 140 new members were added. The parsonage 
was improved at considerable cost, and the debt paid in full. Plain and unpretentious, 
his life is an inspiration to any stucious ambitious boy. 


Loved and respected by all who knew him, the one-time barefoot boy playing in 
the streets of Hebron, is today the loved and honored pastor of one of its best Churches. 
He enjoys the unique distinction of being a prophet with honor in his own country. 


Page One Hundred One 




























7 had 7 = 
sone Ua a 


iad ar 
fae iid &- “~ 


; > , Sor wry en 
~4@? geri a 





AAIMOW T2EVKI .O VaR 4 el 


, 
snort. enee th ee sends ode Tabesq sgeevn “6 mui sd Ttpien dha Wesel’ nile 
‘aaille: od: dnow ito yon sant nemud ¢ tones tid ni idyiligid | 


AW Usew x bainobs zew od viru whine sid o nowlH 13m amon «2 ot be 
of) babar oH - wWAlewessoA to baathaddeisa odr ni Loodasm of bas‘ 


‘wg 
lactis wil bonvttamen 181 oft ao ahi! Aten i7ilopot sar bas wee cn 


amihels bas .ynibeotiz: ec doue abut le Were leary ott bad sd nem yAnoY A 
of harinrratsh sel tee Jjuoe eid de rdsqeb oft nit Levi paidigeme: suf or yin 
tetouhrve od nal MH tterds olad rvee of: wend onc on ji bib od wold _aniaun uv 

nis) eid 1976 Adoot bar raienieites! 1 noni? here 1 mer 


ie aul) saempIorT sibolisM od as fgmigieen any cf scored lylesoue looms 


svinds Here 


wi enw ished W “noe” serlt nwond soteeed ode swrardos botlil sow sods 
omeod vine ads ai let erinseo cow “peal oh Ye om” 6 bsaniteon 10 « 


moim bev of Jenihen 4] 


1 6 10 phnew hah Gi—erdl & 46 tod wl mona ws 
(lot rhaemq oF dood animes coy WA. punk bvizildems as to Tohkeng ait, 
2 no bogey bed od modw dee erod Yo robes! thu sinieye os aineved phat 


te A 
ri 
‘ 


-horoqaerg show gif neqqee sil of boille 4 =a 
ehbobhe ao aan wen OF bas Loldiualy 208 tnodD 
voOuASS a bas well Slab ga hing seed edt linn .eap akinobanos m 


yod sutitiliets +woibune tas OF aslomienal or ok . 
mi gaivehj yor loolnnd 2irtH-2010) wi ent word ore the od hatsoqear hae b 


sori) teod ati lo Sao io rowee) bond bie boxe! of MorbH jo atezy 
¥inwes mo zi ai yond Atiw jel 8 xfiad Yo oss sopeon oja> 


2} anh me9¥ owt nl 


7. Gey dT 








lett on 


“NEW ST. GILES” 


The Eastern Shore of Maryland is full of strange contradictions, and almost every 
community has at least one spot which carries the imagination of the traveller back to the 
leisurely and gracious mode of. living ofa bygone day. Such a place in Hebron is 
New St. Giles”, the lovely home of Mr. and Mrs. George C. Bounds. So let us enter the 
older part of the garden by way of an old iron gate and passing through an arbor built of 
native cypress and covered by grape vines, view the original garden which is admirably 
adapted to its surroundings. Natural resources have been utilized by outlining several 
flower beds with boxwood, and grouping them about the few old apple trees which are 
the sole survivors of a former orchard, and are now covered with ivy. This garden is 
rather formal in design, and similar to those found in many parts of England. The 
velvety grass and beautiful shrubbery, among which is to be found tulip and star mag- 
nolias, willows and honeysuckle, contributes to the English aspect of the scene. 


Continued 


To one side of this garden is found a small sunken garden which is paved with old 
red bricks and which one enters by way of an aperture in the surrounding brick wall, 
which is covered with honeysuckle vines. This is a charming retreat in the summer, with 
its splashing fountain and sheltering apple trees. Passing to the end of the old garden, 
we pass under an arch and crossing a tiny rustic bridge which spans an irregular pool, 
we enter the newer garden. Another arbor of native cypress traverses the entire length 
of this section, and is covered with luxuriant rambling roses and Virginia creeper, with 
honeysuckle covering the fence along one side. Various shrubs are planted at intervals 
along this arbor, such as magnolias and the decorative white flowering peach trees. As we 
emerge from the far end of this arbor, the sunlight falling on the well kept grass and 
bright colored flowers presents a vivid contrast to the shade we have just left. The owner 
feels that a completed garden is a tragedy, and will probably continue to add to this until 
it covers a large portion of “Old St. Giles”, of which it is a part. The garden presents 
a brilliant panorama of color from earliest spring, when the first crocuses and cowslips 
contribute their delicate blossoms until late fall when magnificent chrysanthemums break 
forth into a stirring symphony of color. 


Midway of the newer part of the garden is a silvery gazing globe mounted on a 
pedestal which serves as a focal point and from which one can look down long vistas of 
sunlight and shadows to either end of the long, narrow garden. Two rows of perfect 
retinsporas march in soldierly precision down the entire length of the center of this 
garden, and at the far end, near the older part, is another pool of formal design, with an 
urn at either corner and a bird bath at one end. We again cross the little rustic bridge, 
and entering the older garden, we find our way to the little sunken garden, where we 
pause for a moment in contemplation. 


As we linger for a little in this secluded spot, a wave of nostalgia sweeps over us and 
we think wistfully of the days when this very garden was a part of “OldiSt: Giles,” the 
original grant of which is in the owner's possession. However, the shadows are pes 
across the grass giving the garden that air of intimacy which comes only at twilight and 
dawn, and so we leave this enchanted place with the feeling of having spent an hour in 


Maryland of two centuries ago. 
Sine ELMER F. RUARK, Salisbury, Md. 


Page One Hundred Two 











































eo | = Va ‘ue, 
. vias 
‘ | Pa 
; 
ig "25.10 .T2 wan" 
ge 
nove worl, bee 2noipibminos agrem ast zi bnelyreM io. — 
oc} 03 bres nillovew orl? jo Aotsaryemi off ean dotthe soqe oneal soe 
 nowieH at s2clq & oa veh saegyd 2 Ole goivil io shom evoiay “tas. on 
oft tins eu tol 02 3«2bnuell 2 sgros ni bine aM to omod ylovol ot .“20iD wt 
; to lusd txire of dguowlt yowesq bak oem non Lio ne lo yew yd aalneg wht to 3 3 
. yideriente 2i Aside leninixa odd ovale eon v ogeig vd bersves bae ze1q¥ ver 
; Inverse yuinilwe yd bexilue ased swed eipaesy tial a2gnibavenue vi of baie 
vvc doulw 299) shone | wrot orl) joota feed? Bit pur baa’ boovwwxod lyrer chad +2 
; nen aad T yyr Cie 703 won Be. bone brn mo wemrel £ jo nov ivr OR val 
ed T -bonlend 40 eieq yom nt bone jt -seodi co) velirnk bare sigieob ni leanvol ots 
5 hes qilu? bawol od at yw gaorne .viedduide lutoussd bos were tov: 
| anew ocd Yo Prous | lead silt ar estudiuin0> shisueysnerd bag ewolltw ga 
hlo drive boveq a coinlw ooboey asa Hoven é bnvol ei aobreg eids lo sha sno @ 
. hind gruben ; Tiss AR le Vote ~] sv2Ine ono doidw bas aa a 
diiw 2 tre 4a) ni tRe912 Inte a we sony he ewonorl dsrw_botwvae ai dow 
| fioines | wil 2 So gown 131 Idk vise bow nicinvol ynirlent 
hs or ak d 2ukw vat nm BnizzorD ‘Was time ae sna és a 
. tite arly ave nao svc de vedw: verlonA asl Iney town Selt.x9gme 
7 yy: ) bet cv inenure 1 Losves et bas eoisase ae) 
; / shiz ono grole so09) od) yairsvor slags ie 
; wu d wimdeoal ort bas varlonyem es pte nodie alt yook 
2 ig ; ia ont silt bo bao xt ot mort J 
. [ bork ody on terdoo hivie 6 ens evo betolos gid 
lew ber vlonew o ef aslep Lorlqmos s reddy 18 
2100esy fron ; i dordor te "eh ue bi" Fo noineq oqral & 2 19s 
i en tiny qwrga Pelco mutt wiles jo EM RIO on, ; se 
murnodia gern fedw Wed omel lonu copoesoled spzilsb tind oti ine 
tolos to ynodqenrye gamin « omni at 
: y vrovlie 1 (ting sit tn nq swan sty lo vewbit 
i tit tiny > fife a) ting toy bool © ae errs Hoirha tere se 
iasiser fi "4 Li6 sion .gwal sly to bas wehig a8 ewobsde bas lodaye 
sult Ie w2IAnw oA fryeol nine wht web mowiene visiblee ai dove esvounae 


an Aliw yi imo! to leeq vorevne a yeep Table att 1eem Jinis 28? orls de. bea wn oly 
ogord yeu oil at) eon oinge OW ts oho 30 died bid a bow wene dadiies 
( vontw .oboeg apinue olnil odt a ywe ae bal ww ainey vablo ot peas 
nemelqmgines af inamenm & 4 
















: ’ 


Dan 24 %8¢e tasewe eruleron io svitw & Jape Bobiulow vivid ail sipil « wt » anil swe 
ot “aa 2 DIO” Jo neq 6 cow ashes gy ft wile eyo ody We deine a ch 
g0ille) axe 2urnbede ot ~sowoll iqieseio Stace oa distor to mrg th ~- 
bas drpiiws x ylno esti doiske yoeetiane 1 1m Jef a aling ods yniviy OT. 7 
a) wot on taege paired to ynilswt odt die souhy Lonedons eile 9 ow oe bag ir 
. oye hws wt to baely 

-bM pudeile? AAAUA A ANIMAS 









Where the Roads Cross 


When the B. C. & A. Railroad crossed a branch line of the Pennsylvania at a certain 
lovely spot on the Shore, a name was needed for this union of the rails—known in rail- 
road parlance as a “Junction.” Such outlandish terms as “Oshkosh” and “Waxahachie” 
being unknown in that section of the civilized worid, those in authority very sensibly 
decided to use a name of local color. According to tradition a choice was made in this 
manner. 


There were two large landholders in the neighborhood, Mr. Andrews and Mr. 
Hurlock; two oak trees of equal size were selected, and Mr. Andrews and Mr. Hurlock 
were each given an axe and told to chop. The first ene felling a tree was to be the name 
chosen. Mr. Andrews had a sharp axe, but Mr. Hurlock’s tree was the first to fall. There- 
fore we have a delightful little town of Hurlock named for one of the sturdy sons of the 


Shore. 


That’s the way to name a town—why name cities for dead Kings and forgotten 
Queens? The better plan is to pick out a good man—or woman in the community and 
then go ahead with your naming. Hurlock displayed more good sense than many of her 
sister towns on the Shore. Think of the good Eastern Shore names that might be utilized 
in naming future cities. For instance, the old relisble cognomen of Brown—there you 
have Brownsville; easy to say and very respectable. Gordy—Gordyville. Even Governor 
Nice would lend a hand—Niceville would be a beautitul name. The Sterlings in Crisfield 
—there’s a name to conjure with—Sterlingtown—think of all the splendid qualities it 
implies. Crisfield—home of the Sterlings, is another town that was rightly named. John 
W. Crisfield fell in the river at that peint, shook the salt water from his broad cloth coat, 
and remarked that he had been baptized in its service. Thereafter the place was Crisheld. 
Then we have the Whites—what would be better or more appropriate than White City? 
Think of the soft alliteration of Toulson’s Town; follow that with Pusey’s Pike and you 
are getting somewhere. Speaking of patriotism, civic pride and other abstract virtues 
that look well on paper, why not make a practical application of it in naming our towns 
and cities. Let the name of your home-town mean something. Of course, we have a 
Goldsborough and a Hurlock, but local names are conspicuous by their absence in a great 


many places. 


Page One Hundred Three 










Os > Ae rite 4 


on) 
A 





t 


7 










* 


























aio") abaon od} wea 


mnt & te rianviveansT srt Yo apil dona » Poeeom beolish A 2 Ps) A oth ) dX 
ftw ae nword—elicr sdi Io noiny elt wt Tebeen anv ormon @ ode al ao ie y 
vitthoedexc ¥/" bne “Avot” a& 4st cethaes last) tld " conoaul” & 22 w ofa , 
Wien nav vinous ni sted) Jihay Gexilive si lo notice Indi ai merod nu 9 
aids nt shem exw -miors & noitiber at guilness/. .roloo level lo omen & tu « ; 


* 
2 


4 
— 


7 bas weninA si dotholiginn ole mi eshlodbaal sgial owt ; 
TsehaHt aM bose ewsrhnd wv tan tones en ox leupe ja 27 dno ow? qiboh 
uve oi) od o} ecw 991 & qnillel sua jeu oA gods of blon bra oxa ne avy 2 sd 

gral tet ot md ods ee sort ¢ dab SM gud ove qride a bed uM 
4 10. #noe yburk ott to sno vot lene dah jo nveossleil adit a veh 
F “ 7 Peat 


rl 


+ x 


‘oteget bag zgm2t beob x) ssh Satin vhw—nvot c omen op yaw oly ovedT 
wit (HOVERING Wi 01 ALithOWw W--—aede hao h to Aig 0) at nulq rsiiod oT S: 
vad to yume oe sen hoop som lawdeull SeohwH -yatiman wor dive best 
bocdiiu od wig tl) 2otee sod ered dede ole to hol. svod2 adt no 
roy vod—wnowl ta awnonnes didcilin Bhp eerm wl ae sont 
rosin) aovd ileryina —~inal Adie 150 bre yoo 1 Yao 7 4 
bisten) si egmbhoe oT women tones eed binew sherri —Lond 6 bast 
% 2dip bebraiqe ol) ia lo Anult-—reeomnihoe—-ditw xuinos oF sate gel 
tdel bores yitdyin cw tect ewes eben wusulwed oct to oroth—tladais 
ter Minky bend 21d riod yoraw Slee wht. alerts Hovey sel Ip tevin ods ni I rlorkein 
bismn”) YEU sar ley oslt rere T SRA en it hesin yal trond rr r 
"yh stl ceslt stehqmaqe see dh vee of Liew bath 
voy bon hl <eeuiedinn ted) wool saweT *nwlueT Io nobsratilbe wi 
runiv susnede voeie fave vb) ae ember to weiihnan2 ornbifoetits 
Hrwol wo pein nh saaeeRche:? it & odom Jon | Weg 10 

& ond ow aemeo 10 .noidinine neem merenseruul Wor Yo omen aft $0. 


root 4 mi sored tied YU suonvinetas se zogen lel tad shohuld ¢ hie dt rorod 


P me 
Mee 


«Fa 


: EG tlo 1 agro 


. Delmar is sensible—named for two States. 
Fruitland is not bad, and Berlin is good, but your scribe knows some tongue twisters in 
the State that could with impunity be re-molded accres to the heart’s desire. 

Easton is a soft and pleasing seund, but ii could have just as well been Nobleton— 
Nobletown, or just plain Noble. And Cambridge? that Rose of Sharon on the bank of the 
Choptank could have had a choice of many names—whkat would you suggest? Are we 
overlooking Salisbury? no indeed. Salisbury’s crooked streets and narrow avenues might 
have been included in Balltown—Busterville, Wailers Wish, or whatnot. Centercross 
would have been fine—or just plain Speecville—Speedway, or Killer’s Corner; to these 
might be added Noisy Nell—Hold Fast & Brag, or Preachers’ Peace. Something’s got to 


be done about our misplaced names, and the sooner the legislature acts the better. We 
propose to make a national issue ovt of the whole thing. The election of the next 


President of the U. S. will depend upon names—just plain names. Pocomoke City has 


changed hers so many times she is probably recdy for a new one. As for Snow Hill— 


there never was any hill and very little snow. Snow Hill is deserving of a name in 
keeping with the rose-garden fragrance that is exclusively hers. 


Speaking of names, the old folks knew their stufl—just keep on reading; 





Sharptown 


Sharptown is one of those young-old places that are still growing up. It is consider- 
ably over one hundred years older than the county in which it is located. Thus it will be 
seen that the Nanticoke river and Sharptown, on which it 1s situated, were both in place 
and doing business at the same old stend long before the county arrived. The Nanticoke 


of course, is the oldest of the trio, but her exact age is unknown. 


Sharptown was named for Horatio Sharp, Provincial Governor of Maryland from 
1753 to 1769. It was founded in 1760. 


JERRY 


I have a littie pussy cat, 

And Jerry is his name, 

We fill him fuli of Calo, 

But he’s hungry just the same. 


He lies beneath my father’s chair 
And doesn’t wink an eye, 

And if my father steps on him 
He doesn’t even cry. 


Jerry is a nice cat, 

1 am sure you will agree; 

He wishes both his face and hands, 
As every one can see. 


He prowls around the neighborhood 
Almost every night, ; 
And comes home in the morning 

As soon as it is light, 


NOREEN NICHOLS, 
Age 10. 


Page One Hundred Four 


“Ocean City is correctly designated. 


i —— TT == EA Ne 
























-borengiesh yitsones af yD nee? ome ares wi . 
mi aoe) sUyNO! amor ewond wie WOT @ nih 
eb ened ait wasn al nf 
—nonmide aed low zu nul aed ype hem 
sly to Aneel od1 no porn? ta gees! andi & 
oer mA Sveopgua woy hluew tedw—esman 
pire aucore worsen Lek eon bedeam 2) 
eosas Jsontnlw 1 de 2 ysllW y Mane ‘e ni 
wort of soar ¢lliA vo vewhaoh2—callvehein® ainlq aa 
104 egaidtrmed 207 ‘acianT 1 Se det pir 7 
9V/ ranted ods cram graselermol onl vanes, alt dine pamen lysoniqeien wo 4 Jods onob % 
won od? io nono adf conic -slothw ofitdie two suet lenaiten & sdto oF 300 
eel 21) odomexw’wT were ciela teepeettien Hequ basqsb Hiwae .U odt Jo 
-lliH won@ wl eA ano won c wot ybem gideduig «: oe zomin ye oF aod I 
si omen & lo yoivisesb ei (iH wond ene stnil qv ban id yor ew none rv 
ied viovieuloxs at dell) sancrgert oshing-eo1 ot diiw gok 
igoibem so q7ed ruj—ltur edi waad olloi blo oft 2ormen to gnilesgé 
i 





i Ge dogee 


AWOIQIDAS _ a ; 


Ate 



















vohene? ei 1 .qu anrworg [lie me tent raul blo-ynuay seorlt To smo ef aworned 
x iliw sew botavol ci of roidw oi yoo alt aed ablo c1nsy trviDheerd sina: dlahill 
poiq wi died ew oinwile 2 doutvr no aweiqedl? bee vevis sdososl odds 
shove of T evere vinvor od) wobsd gael bate bio same adpeearsaitod 
awoadnu a yye same ded ud on? adp te seablo oft zi 

wit baelvielA to vomaved lnisnivor) ed aperold vl been Yaw 
JOT nv bobavead eaveakh .@aUl 


THTAL - 


Lm 


a ‘“aeve S107 o oved I 7 
aes At qisot bRA | “of? a 
oi Tif? amid (18 aw > 
ont ot) Teel etgend “al 9A 


viado eedtnl yn digenod esl! off 
oto AO Waly farcoh baw, 

aid i sande weiiel ccm V-beté. 
099 neve taevob al 


‘ino eoltt & al e718 aes 
apes faite one poz oie mail Gh 
ago Hot-epderw 68 ew 

‘ ae me 9 ono ore aA 


Froaavoitiiamie bd Robots swat am ee 
beta , 
anlawimt, 


 -NMardela 


To Mr. S. R. Henry—the poet, lawyer, farmer and philosopher of Mardela, our thanks 
are tendered for a very comprehensive sketch of that delightful little town. “Mr. Henry 
says— 

Mardela has a book full of history if one had time to write it. It has changed its name 
many times thru the years, and was originally part of a land grant to Lord Baltimore in 
1632. It was settled by English Catholics—Episcopalians, about 1634. 

It was first named Baron Crook—then called Barren Creek, and finally took the name 
Mardela because of its proximity to the Delaware line. Mardela has a mineral spring, the 
waters of which are said to cure everything except a bad disposition. Mr. Henry very 
obligingly wrote out the analysis of this magic water, but the terms were too technical. 
But on the dark of the moon, if one will dai nie of the water at Mardela springs he will 
have good fortune for a year anal a day. 

In Colonial days the Indians would journey to the springs of Barren Creek, on the 
old Oxford City trail, now known as Mardela Springs, to bathe in the waters which were 
supposed to possess Hedical properties. The name was changed to Mardela Springs be- 
cause of the proximity of the springs to the Maryland- Delaware boundary line. 

The story is told of an old man in the neighborhood who had lived to such an ad- 
vanced age that he tired of life, and requested his two sons to move him out in the 
country vice he would be beyond the reach of the magic waters that were keeping him 
alive against his wishes. They very obligingly did so, bnduin afew days the old fellow 
passed peacefully away. 

Returning home with the body, the boys crossed a little stream that trickled from the 
springs. When the front wheels of the wagon touched the water the old man revived, 
raised up in his coffin, and _ sadly remarked—“You hadn't oughto done it, boys, you 
hadn’t oughto done it.” 

One touch of the magic water on the wheels had brought him back to life. Whether 
he made another journey in quest of death, our informant did not say. More than likely 
he became reconciled to his fate and is living to this day. 


Oxford 


Oxford is reputed to have been first settled in 1635. Legendary data has become so 
timeworn that these figures can not be verified. The settlement was possibly made a few 
years earlier. The original name was Thread Haven, English merchants being the first 
settlers. This also was the original name of the river on which the port of Oxford was 
located. The name became shortened and slurred in provincial speech until Tred Avon 
was the accepted term. 

Oxford was originally laid out by a woman, Mrs. Margaret Lowe. Mrs. Lowe was a 
philanthropist of unbounded charity and when she died was buried with military honors. 
The town is reputed to be the birthplace of Robert Morris, the revolutionary financier, 
who so loyally aided Washington in his time of great need. Near Oxford is a “Lover's 
Spring,” so called because of the fact that those who drink of the waters will love the one 
who offers the potent draught. This is not generally known as the townspeople desire to 
keep it a secret. They fear a congestion of trafhe resulting from a race by the love-lorn 
to reach these magic waters. 





Page One Hundred Five 


Gata SL be a, Pec yr, 


oh 


~! 







etadds uo .clobicl¥ jo vaiqoeolidg 
est aM .avot init Inladyilsb 


wenen oft door yllend bas aon) asnedl 
wf) .genen lenin @ aed elobight  onil 


my Wash aif .nottogeb bad ¢ kemaee ytd? (uov> sau> a) bine ore didw oO " 
noinities? 001 now eeiad sift gud Jee ann 2nd to cizvlens ore seo % Ugnigi 
litw sd egninge Bhsbyel in vine orl tocttnabe: Ilive snort «ager 39 la theb 
oeb « hee ey 9 26) savin hee nad. 
ult ae tend neve Yo zqarrae off om teen bluow znmibal oft ayeb Isinolod a ig 
s13w thotilw eratew off at adied of 2yonne nlbrel4 2 awond wor Jims YO inol o 
od eying? sioinal4 as bogned> sew omen od T eouraqerq Lestbem ce220q OF 1 
201) Wubnwed navel hanna sdb o tgninge ad) to yimizonq oft Yo seus 
-be ae Ase of beeril bed ody boododdgra ot a: nem blo as to blo? 2i yas oft 
3 nt ive rol som or ente owt yi holesopn bis iho bait off anh 3ge 6 av 
min uniased now edi eoinw ayer wit io tops sls booysd »} bluow ao sioner vite #02 
wolial blo ort eyeb wi c of bee on bb Ylanigilds gay wT esdaiw vid eomgs avi 
ews yiludoomsq beac 
2) mort Loldoins tert atesue shil-¢ beeeons eqod okt .ybox} ols cttw ommod goin 
dein nem blo oi wew od? bodones nogmn wl) io hod Ino oft oodW 14) 
Hg. 2yod 3: seub otdnwo s'nbnd v0” Lane vibes baa o> 2id_ pi qe sei 
“di onob oulyue sal 
ied W oti! op dom! mid fiynod bed asewe'Sa) ao sew 2igem ali lo donat of * ea 
Hoa! and si0)/ (ez ton hb inermota we slimely Yo “oup ni Prmuoj vadioag 2 her 
-qots eitis oF geivil si bo 20) aid af balraeen swnaaed 


brotx® 


¢ anos) red neh yrobnogst 2801 af hele win goed sved batuqn 2i bryelxO 
“ol § doen Coneoy wow jaamalise TT delay of ion RS muga seords sed , 
wit odd gad wonton deilyad och beney ty sone lenigne ofT . 
enw lnetv® to ny od) dsidw fo weh Sa6 8 oleen lemigiro ort eew ‘oels dT: 
iovA teal tomy Hoaaeye aparveng ot bene tine bonsrorle anny! omen dT 


ae 
i'll 
soy beige 4 ay 
renew onal ahh awoet hed aA ines ¢ el to bial i awe. z; 
newed matin dw baited eew bel, alle walle Tn ylisnely to v 


nruend CTEAMMINI 158 aly Ainols ‘sedadl Jo, o2vsleyrttviel otha ad @ hangar ai avrod > 
“in70,1" b rr brodkt) 1 .bgon 3 tw tiny viii fi] f W Lobin . 4 aa 
ane 21) 20! Iw easter ait to tein oak Bald sft tock sat Yor suytoad baling ae nm 
© s120b slquoyerwet oli ee AWwond feautay wei ai ied T Jrigierb Instog 3 2 pe 

. malsoval srt 4 aoe «& mid youluen ailiear, io Nore ayes o£ wo wall aioe & Y 


a)" 




























, 


oe 


Ocean City 


The chiid-heart cf America 


A Fairy city of Make-Belioeve. 

Where the pov that lives in every man 
May bury his toes in the shifting sand, 

And laugh again the old clear note 
That echoed across the pasture lot 

When he dreamed of being a man, 


A land where memeries come drifting back 

From honeymoon days—adown a shining track; 
When the world was bathed in a golden glow 

And hearts were young in the long ago. 


A magic city by a shining sea--— 
That captures and holds the heart of me: 
The capital of fun in a weary land— 
And the laugh of the world 
On a stretch of sand. 


A city of homes like unto all 
American cities—-large or small; 
But a certain something it holds in fee 
Makes it a land of mirth and glee. 
What is the secret? Why, can’t vou guess? 
Try once more, is it food or dress, 
Or the miles and miles of laughter and smiles, 
Or the laughing—chaffing, hurrying crowd, 
Or the stately dames on the boardwalk proud? 


No, you haven’t the answer yet; 

It’s the child-heart spirit, 
Where the fume and fret 

Are banished with care and vain regret; 
While youth comes back adown the years 

To quicken the pulse and dry your tears. 


It’s the boy again in every man; 

The lure of the sea that breaks on the sand, 
It’s tender memories to man and maid—— 

It’s youth renewed and time’s hand stayed; 


And best of all——it’s the welcome true, 
To America’s children—-to me and to you, 
From a beautiful city that Queenly stands 
With open arms and outstretched hands 


To welcome all to her shining sands. 
W. Cs THURSTON 


Page One Hundred Six 





























cam TIOVe ah BOVE DaMt vod oft ote Wee | ‘aes 5, 
base gnistideess? ni e907 eld vind YM = 7 
“lon anole Se en? nlans saual baké ‘thw gle oo 

jol sigaKeq wf? seov26 beoroe satT 
nein & gnied to bemes:h od nodW runt & 


Anad gnittixb aves eolroncou oradw bogl A 

iMoay) suicide 2 owobe—egah eoonryonod mort ao 
wose asblog & al Geilind saw birow eds nodW 

ae anol els a) gage view eriaed bad 


~wee aniaide o ud Wis olgent A 
emt lo treed of) Abfod bua voistqes JadT 
—bael (low a di au? Yo letiqaa oa? 
bhi oft le daucl-qdt boa hd 
buss to da391e 4 GO a ae 


itk obo o4i! eomod to vito A - 

} Nace 10 6428! —-eviJio navhremA - oi 
oa) al sbfod 8 paldieutoa miaites 2 WH ©. . 
; 


. eel bas fitim to baci « 9) aedalt ov 
‘weun wOY Yano WOW reves od? gl daw i~ 4 
2to7b yo boo) Bet etam ooae ort 
line bee svoldggat W elim boo asl od) 1O 
bwow aoitviwd aalindio-—-caiduunl as 40 
"buctq. sawGraod af #6 semah Yletein odd 40” 


16) 19¢ace od} I'nevad wot of 
APikee eet-Olido add a) 
yee) foe song) of) orsdW 
sine ulev bis orn Hiw bodsingd oA 
wisot of) awohe Aoml eomoo divoy aw 
amms! ioe Yb hee Selig od! wodsiop of . ‘a 


rt Q7ve at alage cod off att 

bans of! no edeeted igi) aoe of) Yo otal ogT 
- bla bie apa @F esitomem wWhiel aT 
boyale Load wom baa bewened divoy wil Ae 
2% om Seuteih 
ur! samnoivw of? x H—Ille to leod baA wae 
OT of fre ott obegtblins enhentA a so 
aboais “inven tad) clo lolhiuaed « arent freee we 
shoal bedniyttelun bre ene wsqo HA 


abitne gutta yd 02 Nia secontow ie ny mM 
COVENT DW 1? uae kok 


q i vo 


Pocomoke City 


Pocomoke City is the most delightful place imaginable—in which to work or loaf 
or play. It has a few ghost stories, but they are like ghost stories everywhere—shopworn 
and musty. There may be buried treasure—there usually is, but Pocomoke City’s most 
precious metal is the gold in the hearts of her people. The coinage of kindness and 
courtesy may not be legal tender, but it passes anywhere. 


“Some take their gold in minted mold— 
And some in harps hereafter, 

But give me mine in tresses fine— 

And keep the change in laughter.’’ 


A natural tendency to rime is responsible for the above verses, but Pocomoke is both 
historic and poetical. If all history was seasoned with a little poetry it would not be such 
dry and tiresome reading. According to Mr. Edward J. Clark, the youthful editor 
of the Worcester Democrat, Pocomoke City had no Boswell to record its beginnings, and 
perhaps it is better so. If anything conspires to make Jack a dull boy, to our way of think- 
ing, it would be idly turning the pages of the past. Mr. Clark even hints that the 
pioneers—the first fathers of Pocomoke City, might not have been well educated. On that 
we agree, and we hazard the guess that none of them ever saw a graded school. It is well. 


If they were not familiar with the fine arts, they knew the worth of honest labor. 
They tilled the soil and builded homes; they erected Churches; they practiced the simple 
virtues, and left to their descendants the Pocomoke City of today. As they left it, it was a 
city in the making, but they laid a foundation on which their children’s children are stil! 


building. 


It appears that a certain Colonel William Stevens, in the latter part of the seven- 
teenth century, received a grant of land from Lord Baltimore, and was the first owner of 
the ground on which Pocomoke City now stands. In 1670 Col. Stevens established what 
was known as Stevens Ferry, and boats transported the people from bank to bank. 
Stevens Ferry was the center of business for the whole section of county—known then as 
Somerset. 


There is another story to the effect that a New England trader came up the river 
with a load of rum and cheese, and the good people dreve him off. Very likely a true 
story—Pocomoke people don’t like rum to this day. But the yankee trader moved his 
vessel to a higher point, and pitched his tent on what is still known as bat Bofou SN Rae FT 
presumed that the settlement grew from this cclitary invader, and in 1683, or thereabout, 
the name of Meeting House Landing was adopted, because a Presbyterian house ol 
worship was erected on the lot now occupied by Clogg’s Garage. “This house, according to 
tradition, was built by Francis Makemie. 


About 1700 a tobacco warehouse was built, and the name of the settlement became 
alternately known as Warehouse Landing, and Meetinghouse Landing. In 1848, the 
name was again changed to New Town. 


In 1878, by a petition to the general Assembly ol Maryland, it ere i ae 
. ‘ 9 1 > 
City. Pocomoke—an Indian name, means “Abounding in Fish,” or Muddy Waters. 
Another version gives it as “Troubled Waters.” The story 1s also current that the 
Pocomoke river—in certain dark and troubled spots—has no bottom. Any city that has 
changed its name 5 times and still prospers, is deserving of more than passing interest. 





Page One Hundred Seven 






wi Dae ‘ 


isol yo show or rdointw a 
nsowqotle- “mailvyiors zener noty odif 
wor 2°49 sdomesoG sud 2i “lsoin 

bint reonbniad fe syeniog odT qoaq. to _— ora ai 


, , raat 7 wf 
le a awd asbom i 


—biom benim, at vied! stat it. 
tet ‘stied at cist > 
—on eae? Wl vein ott ad 

* 1)itanal al sanity ei qo9. bn. 





































trod ut sdomowsT jud 2997 svode off yw oltienoqen & amin of yonsbest 
ne $0 son Whar ti vitsod siod o Aw Weneence 2H wieneid eit Jesiss0q bre: 
Hibs lwidiwes ods chal) | hehe AM on gnilnesnsA -geiben ONT: 
ie oyvinonged et brow: of Toweeth on bed wil) sdlommoct smsoaxt! minneW 
ints Jo vw a0 @ ocd lub « dol silage Of zaTIK2NND qridrzen il sm satted ab q pat: 
wi? past ene eyo Awl) Al’ géeq gt lo esued all gains yibi = bliow ti 
tert) 0) .bereowhs low good oved Joti etulegr Wi) rdornavoT lo erodial seri - 
Naw a 4] a Ls! bety & rez 199 mots te anon tort Fy av lansed ov bra. 


1odni azonord jo drow oft wond val oie antl ol) dow vedio jon si74 vols 3 
slamix od winston: vodanud> Niretg wort samod bablivd bar lo: ody holla’ af 
c yor vi ch ttel yor) cA wvabor to wetd savant | ots Hoanbowneb vind? 0? Ho! bag, é ut 
Mite ayn oonblids 2 aide ved! Maniv oo noielniuel « biel vodd oud .ontgem set it 


2 . ae 

“779 oft to tre yotial ols. ni eer rage egalte W lsngleDd OinsI22 4 yards eTeIge 

lo yoervo fern oft enw hun . rons lull taal trent hex! Ve JIRBTQ, & bovison ves " 

tative bowlerldutes enavot? to O81 af -ailiee vom iD saomnesct dodo: ao b c. 
ured oF Aned roomk shyoon ods benegaiad eteod hag ced eegvol? en r 

6 fasts nworak—ormcs to nonae dled oat tel Genie) Yo wine of) tow yRSe 


syn of) qe ome whi backend wal 6 ae Hslls od) oF yiow yorliona et on Tt 
nM 6 Yload ts lio runt svorth vequmey bax whe brie are bres races: ie rr 
an! bevem lia adn 7 ot) wal re ib att at cue sAil rant é rr 
as” SH ol Tl” ex anand Hise ci susdhr pum derye ail borlanq ae = 6 03 bob 
10dnnod? 10 £40! at Len sheerot vrei all aroni wore inonoliee orl7 
in ouod cdonomedrl &. seunasd Ladeyatee en yoibnct sevebl gaint bw ae 
i gmbiooss sevod enlT onc) eyyelt vd baiquose won tol od) no basses c 
amudelt conta’ ad tlied ese joie 


omnia inane ol to omen oft lige olde wav anohew oedo oc vod A 
od 681 AS gathonl wwodygaield hae unitiak! »uodnceW on Me 

. nOT Wea Of “bagels ange ex 
scbeasycrnesT eee mod on Traghnld lo aheherrsmad, dhdanseteds Jeong ony er-puitien £ td bal 
rn dbus’ “ser om 


F984, ve “le se thom men anibol 
ont ines ones dele ay vieite eb Mido FE! ages Hera i 


rnd wes win yn. .nertiod un eal —einge boldwow bas Aob ninnes 
enani goweog merit ssn to yirrtizl 4 veg (ise be vali tah: anntke 


a 





Continued 





Pocomoke City 


IN THE GOOD OLD DAYS 


The author of this delightful sketch, the late Jefl Milbourne, was born at Shelltown, 
near Pocomoke City, September 21st, 1846. A resident of Baltimore for over sixty years, 
“Uncle Jeff” never wavered in his affection for the Shore. It was his life-long dream to “go 
back home,” but the old plantation was gone—the triends of his youth were dead. and 
the Shore that he knew—the simple leisurely ways of living, had changed with the 
changing times. He died several years ago at the home of his daughter in Baltimore. 
—EDITOR. 


Dancing 


The old fashioned square dances, waltz, polka, marzurka, barn dance and the old 
Virginia reel were the popular dances on the Eastern Shore during my boyhood days and 
from the newspaper accounts they are again becoming popular in Europe. They were 
perfectly harmless and differ vastly from some of the dancing of today. 


The Winters 


The winters back in the davs of my early boyhood were no doubt much colder, 
earlier and longer than they are at present. Snow storms were greatly more severe and 
frequent, altho I was but nine years old I distinctly remember the great snow storm 
during the extremely cold winter of 1855-56. It was similar but much more severe than 
the winter in Baltimore 1917-18. Pocomoke river and sound were frozen over so thick 
that the people drove double teams over it from Williams Pend at the mouth of the 
river across the sound to Saxes Island on the Virginia side. The people built ice boats in 
the shape of small scows with iron runners propelled by using the sails of other boats. 
They would make from 40 to 60 miles or more an hour-—it was great sport. We would go 
down on the sound end cut holes in the ice (which was eight or more inches thick) and 
tong up oysters. We had a blinding snow storm lasting for several days with a terrible 
gale of wind and drifting snow almost completely covering up the houses and had to 
cut and dig our way out to get to our store, stables, barn, chicken coop and other out 
door buildings. After a few days we had a heavy rain on top of the snow which froze so 
hard that you could drive double teams and sleighs over it with safety. Ice skating in 
those days was much more popular than now. People in Balumore at that time would 
skate and drive double teams on the ice on the bay to Annapolis. No doubt but what 
the city folks suffered more than the country ones, but why should the latter worry about 
the bad weather when they had so many beautiful things to make them happy and look 
on the bright side, with little to do but to look after the stock, ete. and have a good tme, 
no worry about bank accounts and the falling due of notes, but plenty of corn meal, 
flour and potatoes in the barn, smoked hams, dried beef and salt fish, etc. in the smoke 
house, poultry and eggs in the chicken coop and nice fat cows in the barn yard to 
furnish plenty of milk and butter. Diamondback terrapins, barrels of fruit and oysters, 
kegs of apple jack, cider and home made wine in the celler and a number of muskrats 
hanging out on the outer to be made tender and sweet. Old Aunt Priss, our grand old 
cook in the kitchen, with plenty of hickory, oak and pine wood in the yard, the open 
fire places ‘to toast our toes, bake sweet potatoes, roast oysters, ash and johney hoke 
cakes, play checkers or dominoes, tell stories, sip a little sweet cider, read the Bible, have 
family prayers, go to bed, one little happy family with no cares and sleep like a top. 


Page One Hundred Eight 


ae 

































frpailod2 16 ro? 26" amvedii 
#169% Par 1920 101 s0mulefi to 


oy” of mamb yaol-olil atdaew 1, 
bin .beeb now dive aid to ebnont a aoitainnlg c mam 
ol) thw boyneds bed .anivil to eyewt vlowizi vlowizisl Pearse viata a reel 


norte m rdgush eid lo omod set te age ccoy levavoe. boils att zomid gn 
AOTIGS-- 


grtiovnaC] , io 
a — 
bloods bes soneb med! .edesem dln eilea pte: naupe beaai of 
bre eveh boedyed ym yninwbh sed2 aged sds no esonnb teluqeq odo.seome § 
mow al cogs oi telvqoqvapiimeal cimue se. yords enODE 
ysbo) to yniseeh lt te ontce mond ylnay Rib. baa« 
_ = ent ofT ’ 
a~sblos donm sduoh on sow boordvod vin 7m to ptt oii ni dard ras 
bias wevse mom yitesT, now eno Wonk Jiwang 16 oe wot nerlt xegea0l £ 
wre WOM ImIg1y ei yodrasmnin vloaheib I hla cree one sad sow I atthe 4 : 
ned?.sv2 aon dour jud rslimie zew . ABPPAL 16 reat bles wie ] 
Avil) oz we nos] maw bouee bee tv lomo (2TICh mamtilel nb 
of) Yo don + old ae ") St 2enailli¥/ mort 1 evo eres oiduoh ovob slqqag, 
1k ene shied alge ; iT aie cateyat ? wit ne luckl esxn2 oF bawoe oat fas 
ned 45 be » WY zhita ah sna vi bella oecow nod driv swor etre 
on Glucw 9 V/ TMS ILD thw t— -reyuael ie own éeslien i) ar OF inom) oolken b 
ben (tod? acrlont iam iw ii (o's cow ai Pee) 7 of nh 2atod tH han aa v2 
didnot 6 diiw evech Imo iol gniteel mete wone unibnthd 2 bed oW ee (0 4 
G) bet ne eseued of! ou gnivsvos qielgmes wemle one yan ban on We 
ty Wino bAR qoos and all wed sldote one owe oF ye @ io yr Wo vib ba 
ce osuT) doviiw wore ott bo qa? no wien waeed w her ow exch wole eA 2am 
ni ynuede aol vraiee sore nh tet0-aigiale bas 2mper shdwab-senb -blua> 0% 4 
bfun rae oneniy Sale % aucilell mi slgest sven med? tluqen ses dead. 

v axl wluoh of 2ilonasnd of ved alt soot adt do amast-aldual. avinbs he 6 
iin voow wete! ode hla vdve sad on0 vilewo of] neds nom borhiwe @ | vsio 
foal ban gent enorlt salt or eyvcile, lntanod vivo on let yor mater aedie . 
mit boog = ated br 1: 09 hyo aah afte doelc: unbob os stn disve solvie se dod 
Jeon mag lo ytnolq tod 2won te sob sittlhet off bine. etpuooe ine dole 
sane off ut .o39 oh tee bee teed Detth 2rd Dede .ind xl a mic ns 
or Tray msl of} om evron st sole bat qoos mdvith ah af RD « ca alls ine 


> see Seay oe é 


ee 


T9240 bn c ful to alovied ela Adriane otra! how af wy rol 
‘grin le redeyua 6 bas whoo aft ab sai cham doll lnk Stays 
blo bag ive 22nT tual, WO. awe dae volenss slam hab ai vs 
soyo lt dame ols ni boow ong. hum. dee rwdsiel Yo me » ai 
otod rule; bun das avnevo wher 2a ION tose ofl asce re 


veut olds okt bnopsabia toxve alivih a ettg eee tay pre ores4 ds 
“yore oalil qaala brats «are ome olsen abizrhgs qyqeal obtaal py woe x q4 


Locomoke ili Gontinued 


During the above storm, my father had an imported sew with thirteen pigs. The 
storm! completely covered the pen and it was scveral days before they could dig ‘him out 
and instead of finding them frozen to death, but their breath had melied the snow around 
them making a cozy little house, they were all alive sad comfortable except one little pig 
we could never find. 

My father was a dyed in the wool Democrat and often entertained the party leaders. 
I remember on one occasion during a presidential campaign he gave an oyster and clam 
bake. The people came from all directions in their horse and buggys, some by foot. It 
was a great day for Shelltown. They met about four o'clock in the afternoon, opened 
their meeting. Speeches were made by Hon. john W. Crisheld, Hon. Isaac D. Jones and 
Hon. James W. Dennis of Princess Anne and Hon. Doctor George R. Dennis of Kingston 
and a humorous address by Wm. H. Riggin better known as “Devil Bill” of Shelltown. 
He was noted as the story teller of the Eastern Shore a perfect mimic and a terror to his 
neighbors in playing all manner of jokes on the:n. I remember a little toast given by 


Mr. Crisfield. 


| 


Here’s champagne to our reel friends 
And real pain to our sham friends. 


At night he had bonfires on the main street or road of Shelltown about one-fourth mile 
long from one end to the other and baked oysters and clams by the cart loads with plenty 
of Maryland biscuits, ginger cake, crackers, roasted sweet potatoes, hard and sweet cider, 
apple jack, home made wine, etc., all had a jolly good time until after ten o’clock. 

We celebrated our victory as we did our Christmas and fourth of July with oyster 
and clam bakes, bonfires, shooting crackers and bering large holes in big chunks of logs 
of wood filling the holes with gun powder and applying the torch, which could be heard 
many miles. 

The first naval battle on the inland waters of America was fought at the mouth of 
Pocomoke river near Shelltown. Trouble arose between the territory of the colony of 
Virginia and that of Maryland. The two expeditions met at the mouth of the river and 
the first battle was fought. Maryland scored a victorv. It is claimed that this victory was 


the first time Maryland’s flag floated to the breeze. 
JEFF MILBOURN. 





THE ARTISTIC IRONWORK ON THE DOORWAYS OF 
THE OLD BEVERLY MANSION NEAR POCOMOKE 


The lovely lantern overthrow of “Beverley” on the Pocomoke, Maryland, has 
furnished inspiration for gates, overthrows and railing groups in all sections of our country. 
From Charleston to Boston you will find eighteenth century and early nineteenth century 
designs that owe their origins to this entrance group. 

The ironwork at “Beverley” dates from 1775. It is beautifully wrought of Genuine 
Puddled Wrought Iron and is in a perfect state of preservation after 162 years. The 
quaint bird’s head finals on the newels are one of iis interesting features. The sturdy but 
verv ornamental brace which extends from the overthrow to the wall, across the railing, 
is unusual. 

We are told that this ironwork was made in Fngland, a special order for the owner 
of “Beverley.” If we did not have this information we might think that it was the 
work of S. Wheeler, who made the graceful South Gate of Christ Church, Philadelphia, 
and was proud enough of his excellent work to sign and date it, “S. Wheeler, 1795." That 


Page One Hundred Nine 


a 


oni babrwH oO oped 










ri 
ta a ra / 2 a 
% Sip 
ben ahinod—— J 
«ti hy > i +? 4 


odT -egiq asanidly dtiw woe bonoqent om Ied yeild yor arom | 
10 reel) yib bloon ee ee 4. srg onde be 
hnuers wone 943 bolo bed Aiesad seat” wash an 250 ered 
ej 21] no 1q20K oidanotims bes stile lees yards see in 
>. 

2vbext yneq oh -boaiariny astio baw seaport), losv ode ni boy obidths 

ish bae .oryo ne ovny 3d eyiequrs isielvenq © yn poles sno He 

1.00} yd ornoe zypged bun s2t0d Nise Ai eaubmoib Tle mont sees mo; 
Lonaqo .noomstis od? at dalse wel meds som yvotT voile ¥ yo 
bas eaol .Cl omnal .aoH bliin .W ado} well vd abe maw esthasg® nv 
wseyniA to vinns A sec) ronell wokt One snetA eesonirT to zinnxtl .W 2 : 
awoalled2 to “lit lived" es wwoad ssid my 1 .aW yd enbbe auc 
ei oy Yon) & hae sleimny wha h S142 cient oni to yallot yrtie ot = 













{oc 
—. ’ 
oe 4 é 


cd noviy senor sini] 2 ident 1 ase ao doi to tonncen Me yore = ¢ 


ie 


- 


abnor! Laan tuo 03 eirpequrad> s'steH 
abuasiv? iteda wed a) Wiag Inet BHA 























) Anwoteono tuods awortfbd2 to been 1 Ie nin oi ao emnaod bed sd 
yovig diw ebeot x2 offi vd ernols bie aye bode! baeqordio srs 09 bas ote 4 
tabia toowe bra bred .290tni0q ts9we boven ayaa dio Teynig 2wiuoid baal 

4000 a2 jotle [pou st beogeyiies & hart Me wots joniw sbem smod 
raizyo dtiw ylul jo dro) hac eerie?) dyo bib sw ax TOMY Wwe betewdslss 
‘gol to ealouib yid a rslod ay l gained ne avediem ‘yniscods aniinod evded ov x 
breed of bloeo doidw ido) odds gerdqge bis rebwaq auy driw eslodd oelt gnilla bee a 


io digorn od? Is Viguel aaw moomA hp amen beelai wht ao slvad leven Jari * Pi 


fo qAglo 27 lo Wot! ah asowied gone skiveT awosllede ses tevin sala a0 ‘ 
bits Wyn sit io dwornt ol) de tom soni bev 5 wer of T bralyinl4 to 1643 bone aahe 
tow any suls jad) bomial ci J] edie bore bnelyre Aigqual amy sind E 


ci * % 


sand sd) at bool ef e’bockirnM smnis ofr 


“ADORE TTS 


arr 





-_ 


1O eYAWAOOW ANT “AO ASOWMOR OITeITHA BHT 
TAOMOOO4 KAY AORN CRAVED CIO SEE 


(ate 
eet .bashoslt domosl ah go “yohovell” io wondnsve mesial vievel « 
Ceo) Tun ta eno gc le mt equeny goilien Leetonia 4aled 101 monmiqeni bes 
Cuinss dnsisme yhe2 bee ues dinasedyin ban lin woe andlor nosshedl 


ee, apeerine ant ad enigive risdiestve seas iam 
stun) jo Idyumw yilviwueed et ah LETTE pron) vainh “yahovell” 1 sdhownost orf 


oT =e SOl rhe omiey72e21 to eEnte natn *& ot 2 bas ak igen WI o vbw 
wi vinuv.odT .anutesl Qaienatn) el We oto vic alswon alt no elead ad e'tnidh ait 
a0jiiin ah aor. lev $c. 03. wold ods coy) claro doidw ooned lisee 

a B 7 “ ee 


r ee 










mewe oi wih who lax « .bashgad ni aha exw Arowneni cide se 
als row Motels Anids sdyim ow Holsnmolad sim oved Gon hike owe 2 "Vy 
Hdqlobhat sack rad Jo on diva de ods sham wdliy ak Pe ae: 
Io “LUNE alow Wh ol baw aye OF Juans Luar 





i. *eocomoke City ——contines 


is, if Mr. Wheeler also made the elaborate wrought iron suspension rod, with its 
anit cross, which was put up in the same church some years betore the South Gate. 
Beneath the cross is a length of chain which ends in a hook. Avd the “hook” is the 
elongated neck and head of this same strange bird. It seems an odd decoration for a 
church, though it is a gracetul hook, as hocks go. If the bird is a swan, this must be 
the ugly duckling. 

A similar Briel is perched atop the stand tor the bell on Sheaff House, Fort Washing- 
ton, Pennsylvania. This bird has the same head, an attenuated neck, and long-{ feathered 
wings and tail. The bell is on the Gutside of the house and was used for calling the farm 
help—cerresponding to our Southern plantation belis, which are still used. It is of Penn- 
sylvania-German workmanship. 

It would be interesting to learn how many ot these bird designs there are in our early 
iron work—and just what inspired them. The birds at Westover are part of the crest, but 
these birds have no apparent armorial significance. 

The very ornamental lantern overthrow is particularly suitable for the straight, 
square brick house of “Beverley.” The curve follows the line of the fanlight, and “the 
scrolls are very effective, seen against the brick. 


READING PUDDLE BALL 





ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR THE EASTERN SHORE 


One hundred per cent for the Wastern Shore— 
And not an ounce short weight; 

One hundred per cent for the land we love— 
Say, folks, the feeling’s great! 


One hundred per cent for the Hastern Shore— 
And proud to own her name, 

One hundred per cent from coast to coast, 
That’s the way to play the game! 


One hundred per cent for the Wastern Shore-— 
The garden.spot of the State, 

I’m doing my best to measure up— 
And, say, the feeling’s great! 


One hundred per cent for the Eastern Shore— 
In affection warm and true, 

One hundred per cent is the mark I’ve set, 
Say, neighbor, what about you? 


W.-C. THURSTON 


Page One Hundred Ten 


enn eas Sa Oe es 


manent tains i irl ena tt a rn At tA IU i ie IC Neri 


a 





watt 


- 







































Yisastet tte ——" 


ons 
x hiv de noenepue aos rare eric ‘silt sham 
ie) dived oft weed aaeny otnoe dnusls oette oil oi qu jury cow thy 
urls 21 “door” of1 boA «dood » ot chap dahiw roath to Angle n> a 
cs 70} aounowb bbo os earn ab nid om eult io bred bas : 
Sd seu eis awe gm bind oi Teg ex dood ludsrerg & 2i Si lye 
-. vfnilds 
yoitec'W noF seo Reed2 no Usd ods sat buwe ort com bora at btid x 
= nana! sane dum door batuastie ay ghuad Minne veld enh btid eiiT- -. ; 
tht o> yrulice toi tyme Bet bax seven oe Jo eLiztuo adit no a rs liga Pe 
— jo ee cbsew Mie at dois aie ween: cy nei 190 oF yoibnoge 4 
.qidensensrow no0-ningy 
viins wo nm nh ‘ort 7 engizob bud secul to qoen wod mel of govern ad b ndton~ » 
led eat ott to Moy oe wvansW ie ee edt warsity botig¢n Yew ruj bas—sh "a 
satioM@agh \shome Jaxnsage on sived zinid oe 
Jip off9 2d offfetina chinks atria # wosdnsro a 19!tnal leinammento eroT_ 
ots hos sdyilaet of) to ail ort) evendil ayes fT “howell” Yo spuod slob yo 
ried 31; isiege oge +ovidoalia Yi. < : 
Jji/8 AIO QVIGARA 


é 





, 


SHOWS /HAT#AR ST MOW Teo) nor Q4nadvUH AVO 


niod® isgead) af 4ol Ineo 19q betbaed end 
Jdziow nails souco ac Jon BaA 

vvOl ew baiel GM Voldvao sag Dotbeed ong) 
‘)he'h Seeilee? a? inl ae 


w= nioient ed) wed taeo see beibaud an0 ‘ 
aie) tf wwe) of boo GA 

incom Gt Ima MON) Kes cq bethusd og y 
‘omg i. valy oF tow oe) 2 iadT 


awte mrtenG wh 1 s990 tq borhan ond ‘ 
“tnt ont lo toge ootuws odT oF 
Oe oye oF raed Cor galob art : 

'yeogn o guile) a) .cas bah 
— nent off 492 Ine oq berbuud sa0 7 
sow hele nine notte Al © 
Jon orl Wine. oi at tus> yq bnband a0 ——— 

fue Mead voddatia eae ds 

ve 4 \ ; ee . 
’ iow 4 are - 
| ges Wy 


YOTRAA INT 





=a 
=» 





Continued 


Pocomoke City 


> SOUL-GLOW 
(Dedicated to the memory of Edith Stevenson) 


Gently, sweetly, softly, with spirit born of light, 
She followed life’s well-beaten path 
And made its borders bright. 


One may be sure she never dreamed how exquisite, 
how rare, 
Her quiet poise, her sunny smile, 
Her love of playing fair. 


Beams of warmth and beauty unconsciously were 
shed 
Where’er she went, whate’er she did; 
From her the shadows fled. 


H’en the darkest shadow, to mortals known as 
death, 
Retreats behind a shining veil, 
A vapor,—time’s spent breath. 





Bright, so bright her spirit’s glow! Living 
still, its flame 
Leads us, too, back with her 
To God from whom it came. 


EDNA BENTLEY HANCOCK, 
Berlin, Md. 








WAR 
Flags flying—banners waving We today have lived that story 
Men in Khaki marching by Not a dream but true and real 
Beat of drums and bugles playing When our heads with age are hoary 
Spirits soaring low and high We will still its memory feel 
Souls yearning—hearts breaking We would fain forget the sadness 
Thus they ieft us for the fray : From the Past which is no more 
Courage flaunting through leave taking And would fill our hearts with gladness 
They. were sent to save the day As we fasten Memory’s door 


Shrapnel flying—-bombs exploding 
Life a veritable hell 

Horrors ending—signal floating 
War is over—all is well 


But the memory lingers—lingers 
Leaving with it lessons too 
Pointing out with many fingers 
All the things that we should do 


Flags fiyving—-banners waving 





Men in Khaki marching by Let us then be rid of War 
Beat of drums and bugles playing Rid of all the hate and greed 
Spirits soaring low and high Send our Dove of Peace afar 


Bearing Love—the World’s great need. 
hearts breaking 





Souls yearning 


Men returning—but not all MRS. KATHERINE POWELL, 
Courage flaunting—through heart aching 
Even though the worst befall Sept. 17, 1937 Pocomoke City, Md. 


Page One Hundred Eleven 


a 







ae 
‘Gale wee r " a — 


(mbeasvel2 Aba YW Cegme ot) of sea ide a 


i | 
Aduil.le mod twee itw. aires 


Alan asteed-liew 2" i bewollo? oo ae OAT 
Jidgind ieee een baal Larsen ha 
shetvpze wod benterb teeen ode owe ot waen0 
-21eT wod ty 






























i 
bie 


ret Ae 
lm yneue dod wZelog ssicp 19H bs — 
al sutenig Yo to 4vol 19H 7 - 
eww tlevotssmonass bas siarew Yo sped 9 ae 
La a® 
‘Dib ene wate Jnew ode w'e1dW — + 


bah ewotwde ef) sod aror'd 
a8 uwoudt alestoul @) -wObmdes jeodreh od) 06's 
dined 


. 
Jiev goicide @ Dulided sisov8ed 
Heed sunge BON —-,1oqav A ; 
yaivht 'wotg «'iitiuw aed tained o8 dull — 
“eB at tee 
wi dtiw doud 06? wv abawl 
2ano Tt medw am bod oT 


— 
AQIOO“ZAH YRITAZSS Ava ; 
bu .cttisee ; 
Lae te ee ten 
as 
conta tad) bovil evad yebol OW Raivew erenced 
lavt Dan ooul jvd mand 6 10% “td anidewd fone at 
nent S'8 see Aw «booed ted net salvatq eeland baa amu71b to t > 
cure ail ttt iw OW faid bas wol suitaoa sha (2 
etm off) Jagval atal bluew-off malAnwad atinsd-—gal 
eto oan #) soldw tent oi} ura orl em) tor eu Heal vod) and 
Keonhiiia dilw esmowt tao TA Aieete bath pnidas oval dhawoidy anaunh ‘ t0! 
mab «vom niet ww ah. vab Ss eves 0% jase oR) ” 
ste 4tl-—minanll yoo eta awd) aatbolaxe mimnd— pb pp een p- 
OOF Hunmesl J) (iw gale hargix bas @ i 
sTvgnn vacm ditw tno guia anthsok } ae Piya * 
ob bitewds ow sad) endl) off . -» 


bean 


bM cD atone THCE TE signe 


neveld boibruld en o909 


in tw hit od wot Riel 
boot bine chat off te 


Hu 
- tbs even’ Je ovaey v0 tang, 
lem “bli 683—era) 2g 


whi VO AVINSNTAH 2a 






fin 
flan need dango 
Rat 


Locomoke 


~ THE MARYLAND TREE 


[ like a good old shady place 

On a long, hot summer day; 

When the sun is staring you in the face— 
Whether you work or play; 

When the maple leaves are moving not— 
And the sand is fairly scorching hot, 

I’ll tell you what, it’s nice to be 

In the shade of a Maryland Maple tree. 


I like a good old shady place 

Like most of the people do; 

The shade of a tree just suits my face 

Between the hours of nine and two. 

When the locust in the tree yells out, 

And the temperature stands one hundred 
about, 

I’ll tell you what, it’s nice to be 

In the shade of a Maryland Maple tree, 


I like a good old shady place 

When I get a little lazy, 

And the bees are humming with airy grace 
And flirting with the daisy; 

When the hottest summer days have come, 
Working man or just plain bum, 

I’]] tell you what, it’s nice to be 

In the shade of a Maryland Maple tree. 


I iike a good old shady place, 

And no better was ever made, 

Where you can rest and cool your face 

And sleep for an hour in the shade; 

The soft green grass is just the stuff, 

And the ground, you know, is warm 
enough; 

I'l] tell-you what, it’s nice to be 

In the shade of a Maryland Maple tree, 


I like a good old shady place, 

And I guess I always will, 

The shade, you know, just suits my taste, 
When the days are hot and still; 

When you come home from work at noon 
And it’s just the hottest day in June, 
I’ll tell you what, it’s nice to be 

In the shade of a Maryland Maple tree. 


I like a good old shady place— 

That God set aside for me, 

And I am so glad He didn’t waste 
That great big Maple tree, 

Now if I die on a summer’s day, 
When I am buried and put away, 

I want my grave right there to be 

In the shade of a Maryland Maple tree. 


REV... W. WOOTTEN; 


Page One Hundred Twelve 


City 


Continued 





THE POCOMOKE FAIR 


I’ve just returned from the Pocomoke 
Fair, 

And although they say ‘‘There’s nothing 
out there 

But the merry-go-round, a good horse race, 

The same exhibits in the same old place, 

Some cheap fakirs’ tents, a black minstrel 
show, 

A dance to which decent folks do not go, 

A new place to eat where the food’s a 
treat, 

And a chance old acquaintances to meet,”’ 

I saw there much that my interest stirred, 

And read some life stories not told in 
word; 

For the hand of time writes in every face 

Tales God Himself hasn’t power to erase. 


Thought and emotion with exactness fine 
Record the true taies that our characters 


sign. 

Amid the mixed throng were faces which 
beamed, 

While others there were with lines of care 
seamed. 


I saw the sure poise of the victor’s soul; 

Traces of weakness, unlearned self-con- 
trol; 

Virtue’s rare beauty, with spirit serene; 

Marks of strange viciousness, brutal and 
mean; 

Charity sweet and real kindness of deed; 

Lines of injustice and miserly greed; 

Truth making radiant the plainest face, 

And lack of it marring appealing grace. 


I noted the etching of wisdom keen, 

And that of ignorance with haughty mien; 

Old age in youth, and youth in old age— 

Nature demanding her just wage. 

For, ‘““What a man soweth, that shall he 
reap.”’ 

The harvest is sure though memory sleep. 

Despite regrets and all penitent tears, 

Ev’ry seed grows in the field of the years. 

Regardless of anguish and earnest prayers, 

We can not reap wheat when we have 
sown tares. 

Volumes of victory, and of lives misspent 

I read as alone through the crowd I went. 

The Law Immutable was written there 

In letters of life at the Pocomoke Fair. 


EDNA BENTLEY HANCOCK. 


AE ie a 


anaemia eemtte «cane tnennanenecion. 


ee ae 


sUAM BAOWOIOT ANT 


siomosel of} most beaiwies Jett ov 
tet 
rad} dauodtie bap 
ny ino 
‘Triem of} 98 
lidzxe omae oT 
‘etlia qaeds suod 
.woitls 
iw ot} aonnd A 
gisdiw ie of asSaiq wan 
Jari 
9mnd> o 
UeTTLIe JA Teta ¥ win s 


gaidjoa a'otsiT" vas 
¥ a 61S 
eiod boon 4 bavuot-o3-* 


asala io otha afd al etis 


Rite) 


A 
“de naa 
eis weal 
2 ao bitA 
‘biew 
baad aus Sr | 
e#ie. 6] teaweq Vasacd UsentiH bat sale? 


favodT 


bites 
rts 


etoddy 


fid WwW 
VINES 

wie | 
aooarTTr 


YOu 

» evomwley 
ie I 
wed aagt 
Teh91 wl 


iv 
r 

lun siale wa 

v sini giveniil 


4 sotomosot edilte ail 
* 


io Ff 


| AIOOKAH YAIT“SAEA AVG 


rs Ys 4 ‘ 
Te). ; * y 
vaustiteo— AND 









’ * 
4 


~~ 


“sites 
—#oud oft at Yor a Hi 
cS iealq-to dow al 
—Jon shtvost sis. aovaai of 


4 

od gnidotoce titel af & 
od oF soln on mies 

9913 olgslf baaivialk « to ob i,- 




















































eoslq Ybata blo boos & 
[Ob elqoeq ed? to J a 
‘ect efhte Jeul oort-a to obs 
“1 bee oslo to ewod ali s 
per alley so07) ond ai Janoolt oF 


— 


beibawd avo ebasts oitiategates eff 
ed of eoln el Jaw wo 

#91) olg@a2M baalywilt @ lo: Fi. ¢ 

eoaly ybarde blo booy " 7 

exo! elsttt 8 jeg a 

eoe7g tle fihy gulmmed oo aged off 


weinh eff) alin aalnil 
mos ovad ayab t9earmue Jesizod 
mod alata Jexl 16 uA 7 
d of eola #7) pedw vor LS 
gs busine « Yo one 


eonlg ybate bio boos a em 
Sham ove sew i9ijed Om) 
5 t fo@o bus i491 nao HOt) ote 
P de oni of t00d us tol @ 
tote odd Jaut ef eenty noestg a i 
; ‘woad go¢ ,hanow vel rs 
datos 
© esis att jade goy.tie 
riqall beatles, o lo obatkke 
eogig whada bio hoaa 
Jiiw scowls | eeorg? Bm 
ine sel aomd vax abs v ph 
iiije baa jod ete eusb « 
sow mov? emol sates Hoe 
mul @) (ab Jeotjod ods teh 
“! O} ool at Jade wo 
elgeal baatyrel. 2 to oh 


—asaiq ¢bede bio i 
2 101 shies Jon. 
omew Jablb 4H hale oe 
oot wlqaid gid ras 
‘tab s'isinaoe #£ go sib 
tows jug has bettad | ae 
ed 9) ovsds | gpg erate be 
.4ev) elqalh bualeta 


“aTTOOW Wt ‘ae. S 


Hans 7 


= 


oo 





Preston 


ad 
oh 


ng 
7 
7 be 
cS 





oe Spay 


C= 


————— 
et 


eS 


8 hs 





Main Street 


Preston is deserving of a better slogan than “The Biggest Little Town In The 
U.S. A. That snappy phrase might have served :ts purpose had not Newton jackson 
applied it to Salisbury ten years ago. Perhaps, in the fuliness of time, the bigness of 
Salisbury outgrew its smallness, and Preston acquired the copyright in fee simple. Be 
that as it may, the frisky Miss Salisbury is indebted te Preston tor one of her best citizens, 
our highly efficient “gaurdian of the peace”, A. C. Hubbert. Salisbury’s rapid growth is 
attributed to the fact that she is constantly importing good men from eyery town on the 
Peninsula. Doubtless she hopes in time to recruit additional material from Preston, not 
excepting the versatile Max Chambers. 

Whether or not Preston is the biggest small town in the U. S. A. remains to be 
seen, but her Chamber of Commerce membership—106 out of a population of 401, is a 
record not equalled by any town in the world. Preston has another record-breaking 
achievement to her credit, the breezy litle circular issued by the Chamber of Commerce 
under the name of “Proof.” It is the most concise-—-informative, easy to read and at- 
tractive brochure of its kind ever published. Reading it, one begins to realize the signift- 
cance of the statement-—“The Biggest Little Town In The U. S. A.” Platitudinous as 
it may sound the indications are that Preston is right. It is not an old town, it is not a 
metropolitan center, but there is bigness in Preston that cannot be measured in terms of 
dollars and cents. 

There is progress in Preston, the broad perspective of a happy home-loving people. 
In and about its environs are many places of historic interest; beautiful colonial homes 
with ancient boxwood gardens where legends of the past still live. And “Everywhere on 
the Shore is only a breath away.” 

In the naming of the town there is romance and human interest. Quoting the 
Secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, “Preston derived its name from a Baltimore 
lawyer who came to town about 1856 during a political campaign. He so impressed the 
natives that they immediately petitioned the post office department for a permit to change 
the town’s name from Snow Hill to Preston, as there had been considerable conflict with 
the mails between Caroline Snow Hill and Worcester’s Snow Hill.” 

The town received its charter in 1893. Its origin dates back to 1848. The name 
of the town’s newspaper—the youngest on the Shore—is the Preston News, established 
in 1937, 

The religious life of the community 1s represented by the following Churches—Church 
of the New Jerusalem, Methodist Episcopal, Protestant Episcopal, Lutheran, and Friends. 
The story is told that treasure hunters. have found gold coin along the banks of Huntung 
Creek—not far from the old Nanticoke Indians Trail. But the real wealth of Preston 1s 
in the fertile fields that skirt the borders of the town. There is gold, gold in abun- 
dance—far exceeding in value the yellow metal, the pure gold of moral soundness in the 


hearts of her people. 
Page One Hundred Thirteen 


a A | 



































Sepia ateM 

146 J 
oT cl nweTt slit regi off meds negole roused 2 to garncesb a notent 
nowdyn| sow jon bed seoquty er Bowes ved iigin semdqy yqqea: dT WA 


: oe 
to ezsoyid sey .5i lo womtlud SAF fi yegerioT = .ope any ant yuidaile? oo Be 


H iris? 33! envyqos a1 bsimpos none! bos weonllama agi WTO - and 
iDsilis lasd 3 x 10} now ot berdabas 2 yudeilee sei yademd ob Yorn 1 ee 
drwory bine + if Welt OA ."s909q odtde nattiven” Jonioity vide 

sit ia ; i aon be 2 APINeuaN VYlneizuo et sre gnc) inal acl) ot by acd 
; teoy*! ion lknouiobe siisyot of omnis ni expod ode eehduotl sea 
; med xe slimerey only ning 
inom A. .2 .U ad) nionewot Were teeteid sie si nasesr'l jon 20 yDehe ee 
2) 10% to noiteluqog « Yo tue WOT —nideeders 1 sorgme. to wsdemad tod aud ,a 
teswd-brosn odor fs | bhiew ot ni awen yan yd bollexp> som tue 
: 2 1 whist shy: aod sels sibs woe oF th nova 
SP Os ri b vi tl 6“ toorT™ Jo 376 oF 7 eeelt 
flinpe « | iged on aritlmad ‘deq wave baid 3h Jo mudoond gee 
£6 20 L ni mot 300.) weyyil of "teense orl Jo's 
ab gs ar et mea’! sede se enolianba’ sly ba : ¥en 
+ ai -beww, 0 eit? wonreyT ai wevaged ai sodt ud sons) anil OOT 
2m bre ang 
of.9en ; / Met ay teow wh tulesd *] ti aegTQOIg zu node 
Potey indlan | www) Io zou /Her OM eteeves 2 juoded if 
F ; ie tee t to eleiog si tlw roby borw7od insiong f 
sg diand e yloo si sede 
dt ay QO acinud bas sangeet ei sodi awe ait jo gaimen ds 7 

20) n 2) bona moenT” once ge rwlenad)> sey bt a2 

wi? oranigent oe oH retina levistiewy « gery G41 wade (Tro! oF ome orl aa 

agnads of Ney © 26) Inomnogeh sae Jeary iti Lenoiting woisihoment yods sede eae 
fy miltina + F - 


1 rrow! be stort! #e -ttetesr tT of il vrone toot amen 26 nol 
“lbH wond eyne'W bux Th word Sti. hs 2, stage tal 2 ' 

ann oft BPHL «3 dood tnly nigra el FRR ni wetted ai iar ae - 
Loefatbl ares Jevr  novestl srl si—sol2 od) no segnooy SS — hag 7 3 ry 















\3 


iiweatlo) ody vd bomraesreon ce. vltnucrene Shh lo if Ty} yi 
abravd bas ,aevsdsy! lugeserg dl memosorf Jaqerein sy Yeiberiol ral any: , 
ynvnutl to 2Anedl aly anole nian Ding banal sved 2ranusd guage reds bales » no 
“1 nowart to diliww feo ol wed te T ancilint sdooanA ble one wnt tH) Jon 
‘tude ni bloy ,blox a sodT srwos oat te avainod oly nide seh alsa slins 
ath oi sesnbauce leon Yo blog seq ods tes 1 sulky ai. ga 

oy 7nq 9 shesroes woolly oad if pnts 
maenidT bebeuM anO age? eee 

‘ : a f + _ a q i" ; 

r ‘ 7 a : 


‘ 
ice 


A Yar —2orl yk) m 













5 
a) 


Bis 9 ii ot SEP 


cee 


ae 
: 








Washington Hotel 


Princess Anne 


(FOUNDED IN 1694) 
FAMED IN HISTORY AND ROMANCE 


LIFE AT PRINCESS ANNE 


Few country towns are more delightful places in which to be than Princess Anne, 
first settled because of the meeting there of trails which led between the sparse little settle- 
ments in the great wilderness that was Maryland. Records have been kept from 1605 and 
among the earliest firms established there was Stewart and Gale, later Stewart, Gale & 
Jackson. 

Princess Anne 1s a picturesque little town, with an air of elegance and long estab- 
lishment. Residences there have wide and beautiful lawns about them and there is a sense 
of cheerful business activity conducted without bustle. Pleasant courtesy marks the de- 
meanor of young and old. 

The Delmarva Trail passes thru the town and the traveler may alight and find a 
welcome at the Washington Hotel, which was an inn betore the Revolution, and sleep 
in a bedroom built in 1775. 

As early as 1694, the court of Somerset county ordered a plat of 200 acres of the Beck- 
ford estate bought, upon which there might be built a governing town for the county. 
The records tell that 25 acres were actually purchased in 1732, and that was the nucleus 
of the beautiful place today. It is beautiful. Prince William Street is two city blocks in 
length. At the head is the East Glenn estate which somehow has failed to gain the notice 
of searchers. At the other end of the street, or the foot, stands the Teakle Mansion. This 
great old place, built before 1800 is today a show place of colonial America. It should 
never be forgotten by Marylanders that it was the owner of the home who gave to the 
country Thomas Jefferson, and all for which he stood. John Dennis, the builder of 
Teakle House, went into the convention that nominated Jefferson for the Presidency in 
1800. When he arrived as a delegate, the meeting was at a deadlock. The Marvland 
delegation was a tie. Dennis, without hesitation, cast the vote that nominated Thomas 
Jefferson and made possible his election. 


Romance Cast in Teakle Mansion 


It was within the walls of the Teckle Mansion that the Judge Curtis family lived, 
and here Townsend cast nearly all of his famous romance. Every man, woman and child 


Page One Hundred Fourteen 


nr 


a a eR 


— 





ino ompyoiden W 


























anno @293st1e 


(2009 KE GMAZIO4) te 2 7. 
qO“AMOR GAA YAOT2IH Ul GaIMAT e. 


—— oan 
HAMA 22q0VNAt TA SALI 
eonk eonn tl ne of op doitw at ssvelq lelerlgiish nom ste eonwor ywnvos 
stitse olyil oe Ler? 1) nawnsx | bol dowlw else lo s19n) § yiliisoen si} Jo seunred | 
bers 400f muni wan ated 9% d zebras al aglyaté gow Jerks eesnrabliw mary hil 
2 ae mew? asisl sleD Lac mews ate gisds bodethlaes semnaosesibees odd 


dates yoo! bas sqeysls Yo tie ae dive Vewos chai! supenotig # et san wont 2 F 
senoe 6 a rod? baw mod inéde exon (tia ban sbive ovul gros einsbiaol 2 
hy of} eden @2nua inv!) old Woh bonuhsod Yivine weaked! 
; -ble bas gnuoy 16 
bud bee wgiie gern wlo/er oct bee Ane wets eseeney fierT srremiyC ar 
jy bre .waonule7an 11 a0! do oant on 2a doiriw JstoH dwosgauthee W onl 1% 4 os 
2TT1 nb aliud: mmootbed » 
lasth ort to enue UOT to telq @ bevishxo (Ate Beamoe2 to nves olp $001 se yhese 
rue 114) awe al NIT Oy é tad ai tehaim arses Ad noqu i Te ; 
woloun sel enw polt bee 2 os Dee Yilateas wow aoe OL tods ; 
n raed (iD ered 41 FORME ents wihW sel Jotred 2 ol geben aelq HE Eat. 7 
son ait My o8 bralint ctl worbsprine otrhy Sete aael) wel of a brodd winah t 
znf} wore’ atdesT ote elrtamwe soot wilt. owe sri to bn rerliowds 1A aan 
Livwk 3! .minarnd. lninoles to sonky wade s yebos e O08) noted slid ere sory 
wm Ol o7kE ofa sted att lo vee ols ae on onde erabrrel ald ed od 
io yabirue = sume) oo Awl laa od ide wi [lc hes Sreersital: vat 
Ait votisbtes ads 48 nor tiol boventmrom Wdt aotineynos set Canis (3 . 
bralvtalé ve Asolbuobh oe te ee OWeern oh eR" dob © an: bovine a 
zero |: Lasenining soap omy ott len ited mwedira \ 


-noitaats rs sarge int 


goisnnt spkteT ni wD sachet a 


doveal virial «iD gybel, oe teh) roisnutt dawnt oly Yoo ally aif 
bit bee venow wom fed omen spires to He vbnon 4a 


= le uley 


: 
iv - oy ph oe 


f? ri ncess Anne—Cont inued 


of Princess Anne knows in just which 100m each of the gts of that drama were pictured. 

Teakle Mansion, one is told, is 2 porticn of the origina! Becktord grant, on which 
there is now standing the original manor house erectsd by Peter Dent in 1679. Standing 
before this wonderfully preserved relic, it is almost inconceivable that it has stood there 
alone for more than two and one-halt centuries. From Beckford’s door, there has gone 
someone in every need of America. In every one of the calls of the recurring wars, there 
has been an answer. Many of the plans of the United States in the making were con- 
ceived and shaped in this old place. 


Courthouse is Mast Perfect 

As a visitor wanders about Princess Anne, he notices the straight line of Prince 
William Street, and if he remarks upon it, he is told that the original line of the street 
was the shortest distance between the knobs on the front doors of Teakie House and East 
Glenn. This same Prince William street crosses the mzin thoroughfare or the Maryland 
State road at the Somerset County court house, which 1s the most perfect of any in rural 
Maryland. It is of a pure straight-line architecture, bunt of brick, with a colonial doorway 
in the front and porticoes upon the side. 

Inside the records of Colonial life are treasured with mother-like care, and how very 
proud the Register of Wills and the Clerk of the Circuit Court are of their priceless parch- 
ments! In the courthouse they speak of the 160 period with familiarity, while the 
Fighteenth century is as but yesterday. 





TRIBUTE TO JOSHUA W. MILES 


ByeDRS LAP. BOWEN 
(written in bis 96th year.) 
Both Dr. Bowen and his friend, Joshua W. Miles, are affectionately remembered by 
many people on the Shore. The venerable old Preacher and Poet did not long survive the 
Passing of his life-long friend. 


Strong men have founded Churches— 

Strong men have planted schools, 

Strong men nave built Courthouses, 

Where jurisprudence rules; 

With homes that thru the years have 
stood, 

Adorned with peerless womanhood. 


A man of force and character— 
Our native orator; 
His going has left a vacancy 
Upon the Eastern Shore; 
The loftiest oak in time must fall; 
Death comes alike to one and all. 


Since first, fine old Judge Stevens 
Towered by the Pocomoke, 
And incoming civilization 


Miles joins the great procession 
Of men of mark that rise, 
And grace the generat:ons 


The Western wilds awoke, 
The light has never failed us yet; 
Strong men have lived in Somerset. 


That filed into the skies; 
A Christian lawyer that has stood 
Defending too—the law of good. 


Farewell, my friendly Joshua, 
Farewell awhile to you, 


Who always 


my heart to preach 


When you were in the pew; 
A noble sampie of a man-—— 
A worthy son of Princess Anne. 


Contributed 
Crisfield, Md. 


irs: line SONLELS: 


Page One Hundred Fifteen 































. ® 

| i i * Pe a a! 

-borwrig sw Gencib tnd to 2% els mew ate 

faiiw ne oat Inotdsll lanigke: to mining 6 at; ” 
airboas® OVO at tel wot ot 2 oewod woKM 


nor now yolxkecr od? oF zotere basin dh to analy ont Yo ven , | a 
rate 0M ti sevodnv0D ; 
wand jo onil wlyisie sd) even SE enA eeoaivT ioode aobniw yoliew @- 
monte 30? Jo onitlalcnigie ode-gers Blan ee od 51 noqu whens of h brewons@ nm i 
wed bas 20H sidexT to eoob soot oHiwe zdond ad? qaavurted sonnel sare 2 oth 
barlieM si 10 stetdyuoods nice WB BOM mow mailliW sand ore 2 is 
foun nt yw lo nh 120m ‘odds asaloide sedod faios WeueD tronomoe sdt ie bees 
rewro0h Isinoles « diiw sland dn Hibd etusssiot:, snilinyime suq ¢ to al, 
bie alt nou esoorhog bas inc 2 
(iv wod bas 21 siiliottom dale heaversy onc oil lsinoloD to ehinos1 ost) ot an 
r ety vealvang words fo ne Iual) 13D or) to trolD Se) bas aiiW to Togo ott 
wt ohdw .ynsilinccl rhiew ‘bors SOM ont Yo dooge yor sevodnyor ody ite 
vebramesy thi! ae zt Ceuta din: 7 
———— LT Tt tetera ‘ 

eli .W AUHZO! OF FRUSIAT 


ViIWOe 1 1 A ya 

(-1e9% G88 tid wi eominw) 
Wl Leradentarn yn Visinnowosiia on cali dA Ww tivo] jbrset-ed bna nowolf ad 
iff svi pool son bib oF ba, imlasaT Ilo aldmoney sAlT vsrod2 sc) no 


dbrisind qredcstil aitk’s 







IMUM bobauot eved aunt avowed —watomtads bas 99 - 
NOONE by yenmhe, svid seul gaonie Tos@T6 }é 
ASsaponhou) Nivd svad oom Anise VORnony 4: 14) ead 
~wainy Soeb atone arene pon . 
eveaed ainey off wilt lad! eomet AH us aaman tole 
eau earl, Ano 
-hoodasmow eeltioug Hiw banebA tas hit eae G1 gitila woe 
nolvasio™m Jeetg off eee anllle ‘Geren! eabut bio af 
oxtt Sndy A pear ta ens 16 Atameost ads we 
To eon ni) voewe hin OG Asilivig D078 
“iis of) afitt hoff : edowa abit ae rh 
baste and in) Wwewhi uljaitll’) A (ay eu footie) 19790 sed ® 
-ba0g Yo wa! ad ' eo) quiineeiag JOrioe al bovit vad ote | 






“ deeaek cipal) con 

. | gt Mt ODL 

oes MHonvth ty Rw Hogtat 
(Wag ott ai 


i vega es S86 





? rincess Stt if --—-Continued 


PRINCESS ANNE 


There’s a little country village down upon the Hastern Shore, 

Far away from noisy cities with their rattle and cheir roar; 
England’s flag was proudly waving 9’er the land when it was built, 
And the blood of English brothers had by brother’s hand been spilt. 


Then the English King was ruier, amd the settlers to a man—— 
Were so loyal that they named their little village Princess Anne. 
She was ever smail and dainty, and the girls were very sweet, 
And the men were honest citizeus, as ever oie would meet. 


The streets were wide and shady, and the gentle summer breeze, 
Brings coolness as it wanders thru the tengled green of trees; 
And her houses stand in dignity, each one apart—alone, 

With its green lawn all about it, like a Monarch on his throne. 





But the years are bringing changes, for the old familiar face 

Of full many a dear old citizen is missing trom its place. 

And the quaint old shop which once held all that one might well desire, 
Have been eaten by the flaming teeth of many a raging fire. 


Much is altered—something lingers—and I wander back again, 


But I now must walk down ‘‘Main Street,’’ and I loved the old town lane. 


And the tides of Manokin river flow a trifle weak, 
Yet it seems to me but yesterday I fished along the creek. 


The “Beckford” house is standing yet, enwreathed by stately trees, 
And the “‘Teackle Mansion” also, but to counterbalance these, 

You've two modern fireproof structures handling cash for one and all, 
And they’re hardly things of beauty—-neither is your new town hall. 


And the stately old brick Courthouse. where we used to have our shows, 
And the mossy-roofed ‘“Clerk’s Office’ by its side; well, so it goes. 
You’ve a gorgeous modern building where the legal ducks may quack, 

But it’s rather new and shiny, and I want tbe old one back. 


Both of us are older, village, and as down life’s track I roam, 

‘T’ve a kind of sneaking feeliug that I ought to come back home. 

For the most of those I knew are resting ‘neath the Church yard sod, 
And I miss the well known footsteps from the paths their feet have trod. 


Then when age comes calling to me, and I enter the last race, 

I’m sure I’d meet him gladly with a smile upon my face; 

If he beckoned me frem paths wherein my youthful footsteps ran, 

I would rest in dreamless slumber there in dear old Princess Anne. 


Author unknown, 


Contributed by MRS. J. F. SOMERS, 
: Crisfield, Md. 


Page One Hundred Sixteen 


. 




















20d2 orNined ods nwob ssallly yipwoo: 
wai Slot; bag snide seas ajiw evitio yalon: 


Jitd eow tt 1edw bent of: ae salvew ylboow | 
Aliga ceed baad sssd)boid ed ben éteAsowd dattantd Yo | boo! hive viper 


—aa » OF eaveliion of) Dee srolut sew gull @ et) 
tA aeacuitd ogallly apes sil ventag tedy dady Layo! oe 
Jeowe vee vrew albsig od) bee vivliah ban Ueme seve 
» Joon Divgv e800 19V0 8 .euetliio leened mew mom 


a 
Se 


wood vemaus oligen 49) hae cbode bas abtw crew vey sere See eal 
‘ eovr! lo use7g boleeal aff uid! erohbosw 91 ee eeonl 
| Sole —naqe end doae ciiesglb at bala pense 1d 1A 
snotd) ait no doventel @ edil 9) joode Ne owal see1g eft IW 
: i> 3a 
oon) vollliae? blo of 20) 2eneds unlenind ote etaee odd “ . 
soniq e: oot Rebdteors 57 #) pesinid tio web 2 ie ul big 
ecb liew Idetee ovo tnd) Ue Bled sone dsidw qude blo jnincp eo ‘bia fe 
y1h Buize1 eo Une Ww aise; gaimat off ed oles aed | ott 
4 i 
tinge woud 1ebcew | bee—ersgel!l paidioonoe— beraite al dow 
ial owol Blo oft bevol J Aan “ Joule nie” owob dew tena won I ine > 
teow ofits) » Woh seth abfoanlt Yo esbid of) BHA 
weot> od) anoles Sodeh | yehusliesy ted om of garess 1 oY 


vii) tad 












toott Wwlets «d botigoiwat Tey aethdute a eenod “Moline” sit 
weet) sctatotivianes OF tod ,olu “notin, aidsneT eft bade) 
Hse bie soo 10) dane anilbwed aye tour te lewiqowa avboar ows ov'so 


liad awo! wea tuoy at isdiient —Yloeed le egal “ibted et" ygods tA 




















swote sho eved «3 fnew w o1hdw ommmodines) vot Mo tiaseise ad 
eo0m Tia ow (oble-s! qe SRO @sivelD” Beleorwvesee a|rfy 
Asnup Yor etoub legal ed! quel antbliod webem emgeyiog a av's 

And ono ble od? aude D bag aalde bed wousediar Pa 


f Msot 1 tonw e' ol Weeb te bee .opalliy wabhlo ote en to 

ndod vead enias “a ify 1 1h) Sulioe) galdtweane lo bold @ o 
; bon baat dood ef! deo Yule at woad | aeonty Yo jaom ons 4 
bent ovat joo) tiuds ading of} muh eqaleroo! ewond Hewedt eden Pt 


20) Jent of) 209 T Ite Om o: vailies eettod ose done 
sont za nee oi es Miw 2 beatw mit reat ly ” 

Hor ay ition) LM ge Mend w edit goad gar 
onus, eevonil ble ineh af Sian! vedwuuta caste al ters 


“ ~ siwoHeknn OSHA as : ee. 
A aac 
SHaMO8 TL 2AM wd beadinne> __ ; 7 
bit htelvie) - rs i 
' oben 


1 ced ot 





pegOe 


1 ‘ 
: _ 


Continued 





Princess Anne 


ST. ANDREW’S P. E. CHURCH (1692) 


Miles and miles of fragrant real old-country roads. First you rise to imitation hilltops 
from which peaceful pastoral stretches unroll to meet a distant blue-veiled skyline and 
then suddenly, you roll into the beautiful little historical town of Princess Anne, down on 
the Eastern Shore of Marylend, the “Garden Svot of the World” to all true Marylanders. 

This is a preface to a visit to old Saint Andrew’s Protestant Episcopal Church at 
Princess Anne—that venerable shrine of Eniscovalian history. 

St. Andrew’s is one of those rare, beautiful edifices, not so often visited because it is 
away from the beaten track. It is just a square or so from the Teagle House and stands 
in the midst of the stones marking the place where former worshippers are sleeping. It 
is, of course, brick, with the regulation cone roof and gables and with a later day tower. 
In accord with the spirit of the town, every little essential to worship is placed so that 
every chord of harmony is touched. Looking toward the white marble altar, backed by 
the field of gold, the Mosaic of Magi, created by Gorhams, of New York, is in perfect 
lighting. The Three Wise Men and the Mother and the Child are each clear and 
distinctly outlined. | 

Queen Anne Gave Communion Set 


Once a year a vestryman goes to a safe deposit vault at one of the banks and brings 
to the church the communion service, presented by Queen Anne to this congregation in 
appreciation of the honor done her daughter in the selection of her name for the little 
Colonial town. Never is this precious relic left alone while it is without the safety 
of the vault. 

Gaunt, austere, yet benevolent with age, rises the great tall tower of the church 
against the blue of the summer sky. It catches your breath and your imagination. 

The massive church boasting the tall cross-like tower, its turrets and ancient windows 


and its beautiful arched lines of architectural beauty seems to tower over the little Somer- - 


set County seat at its feet with everlasting quality of a mountain. Men may come, and 
men may go, but it broods on forever. 

Founded around the year 1692, Old Saint Andrew’s Church is today the Parish 
Church of Somerset Parish. Ivy covered and sombre the venerable old structure stands its 
head raised with pride over the green fields of Old Somerset County and winding 
Manokin River. 

Sheepskin Ledger 

When Princess Anne was laid out in Colonial days, the Washington Hotel was built 
on lot 15, by John Doan, and evidently for an inn. Zadok Long, before buying the house 
in 1797, had rented the property and conducted it as a tavern. An old ledger made of 
sheepskin and kept by Long, was found in the attic of the hostelry and now is kept in 
the safe as a valuable relic. 

‘The ledger bears the date 1780 and contains the names of some of the original 
settlers of Princess Anne. Their scores for entertainment were sometimes paid in pounds, 
shillings and pence, or in “hard money” as it was then called, or in farm products and 
among notable persons who have enjoyed the hospitality of the old house was the famous 
barrister, Luther Martin, the first Attorney-General of the State of Maryland; Samuel 
Chase, the “Signer” who came with his father the Rev. Thomas Chase, rector of Somerset 
Parish in 1740; Governor Carroll and Governor Winder. It was while sojourning at 
the Washington Hotel that George Alfred Townsend wrote his fascinating romance of 
Eastern Shore life, “The Entailed Hat.” 

Upon the walls of the lobby of the Washington Hotel hang 
Presidents of the United States from George Washington to Calvin Coolidge. 


yortraits of all the 


Page One Hundred Seventeen 


a dst 


































(S032) fauna 4 WAAQAK 7 
eqoillid ‘notissin of 9211 voy ta wthens enecr-blo lin 
bar snilvde bolisvould ineRib 6 tn oF 


‘1 it oeunzed batiziv matto of ton 23sels ldibtuecd 2 edt to ono 2 
zhare bas swoH olpe’T dy mort oe w sthupe = iui 2 eur rh ult oe 

HW .ynigqossle om aoqqitnew rare ata oxala onli gnid¢iein eno od Dun | 
-I97W0) val ate! « dry bet zoldeg bine don 21> nonelugn ods chive a ee 
wei) ox bavely at qidzrow of tnitnses siti! ereys rey add to tiniqe orlt ati rs 
9 bodsed jet: oldinsn aidw od? bammes ordeal barbara ynornned to. rant 
whe oe hoy . vs io emethhend broteers ignt4 Yo viseold only og to bk 
be wolx doce om blid’)) ody ban helt adi bar wo iW soll ofl x 


r “s rad 
«bonilive ¥ 
i292 noicommoD se0 sanA osu) X 
egond bas edaed ad: to 20 16 tee wank vine 6 on 2504 nemyriesy & & rant 


Mm fousgsTgne: etl? at onnA nosed Beanies osha nolntnames aly Aad 
vii silt rob-omen iil lo mditeskes off at Taiigesh 1d cneb reo ort to 
sehen 


(tater oli sueclsive af i sfiAw onal 


ee ae Wipe Pee 
& Mel silt even ett ei wet wor ewok 


Anus ols Yo tower thio 31g ont ana oye ative insjoraasd 15y sue? ine we 
nonenigemi wey bnen dies mwOy eens i] .ywle qememue ody Yo auld ela pes 
ewobniw jowson bre erniud 2 vv) Gideon ies lt ynisenc! d-nuds svizzem oT 
tomo, oisil aft 1970 wa) OF acre nid lousrostidomn to escil bora Iutimesd a 
bne .mc ven oo .wintnworn ¢ ie (tinap Rortenitavs diiw $0) chi 36 Inge 2 
: mail ao abood si 10d .om vem 

sworbal, pied belt). cea veoy oli bane | 


leive"h ayty web? 2 dm’) 


’ - : : & 
MMe NotI blo cidersnsy sei yubytine brik Lesa ‘a yvl Mevred ioerorned oe 
aeihanw bee yinwo) meme? bi) We aie nosy ott revo shiv dit beh f 
; TO 


toyhnT nisbende 
Hind exw IowoH norgnicdesW sels Heeb 1ntiehe) oi sm biel zw sand a2ooniyT nod 
evo 21 yaiyud noted nod debe oc cecal vSnobivy bee sipo€l) hol 4 is 


Ts 1 1sybe!l blo aA .avevus & ee ai tisesrtbene> foes vroqorq sil) botany bed 
mod ei won bae vilsod ody le sink 4As pi have) ew aol 


ails ie & em oes 
OTe ete) oly io ono jo 7mnin only ATU NINOS beg ORT wal orls ined : ik 
elosisrety, Crk bing Porites wey Seer UNTAMED 1) Oo tind T minh, z 
bas ‘ube pote! at 10 bolle wort nw Hh an "ronene byeeel” em, |] Sam ene 
enone ses eww “wisonl blo ol) Ie vtttesqaead ody hovers anothe wen sa ne 
urine teeleehh le sue adi te lane. Myon wes only ined tol wom 
taevatnoe to yori aD fern T Sil lt salle) cut dae seine orbue 2” oelt 9 
iG ti (URE) Leetp ee slirhy 7i&w il rahi We were) beens llonnl) 10600) . 
io soonener yaitenided eid dover heesienrweT batt > owls lorokt 
"nd baheandt oT oi 


ob Ne jo atime evel fatoht mergniten Ve oct) jn wital adi to sb ag 
sybdeod nivie oF aexgeisten'W Yg1021) damn sonra bodies a3 

3 
ay : ae 


é_ 
; 













nesinove? bebrwh aD age 





Princess Anne 


Continued 


SOMERSET COUNTY AND THE EASTERN SHORE 


Somerset county was in the beginning known as the “Eastern Shore,” and included 
all the land lying below the Choptank river. In 1666 this county was created and it was 
given the name of Somerset County in honor of our ‘Deare Sister. The Lady Mary Somer- 
set.’ Its boundaries were set out exactly in the proprietary proclamation: ‘Bounded on the 
South by a line drawn from Watkin’s Point to the Ocean on the East; Nanticoke river 
on the north and the Sound of the Chesapeake say on the West.’ In 1742 the county 
of Worcester was created on the seaboard side of Somerset, and again in 1867, land was 


taken from our county for the erection of Wicomico. Somerset may indeed be called the 
‘Mother County’ south of the Choptank. 


The Teackle Mansion 


Across the west end of Prince William street stands the Teackle Mansion, built in 
1801 of brick and after the design of an English castle. The mansion stands on land that 
was originally part of “Beckford,” bought by Littleton Dennis Teackle, president of the 
Bank of Somerset, who built the mansion which is about 200 feet across the front and a 


fine example of early American workmanship, not only in construction but in interior 
decoration. 


The house has a central building and two imposing wings. As unusual as its archi- 
tecture, is the fact that the mansion belongs to three different families, each owner 
holding a deed to his individual part. 


A Presbyterian Pioneer 


A patron saint of Somerset county is Francis MaKemie, “Father of the Presbyterian 
Church of America,” who came from Ireland as a pioneer missionary in 1683, and whether 
he established the first Presbyterian church in Snow Hill (then Somerset county), or 
Rehoboth, always has been a matter of friendly rivalry between these two places. 


At any rate he established five churches and Snow Hill is proud of Makemie 
Memorial Church, a church which Presbyterians all over the United States united with 
the people of Worcester County in building as a monument to one whose name stands 
for intrepid courage and piety. Frencis Makemie worked his way through Maryland 
and settled at Onancock, Accomac County, Va. A monument and funeral cairn have 
been erected near Jenkins Bridge, at the spot where he and his wife, Naomi, and his 
tamily are believed to have been buried. The figure represents the celebrated divine with 
his hand raised in blessing. 


Family History 


The Teackle mansion reaches back into the dim recesses of the past, but the last is 
irrevocably linked with the future. In the building of this little book, we acknowledge 
with grateful appreciation the support and encouragement of one of Salisbury’s fair 
Matrons, -whose mother was born in the old Teackle Mansion. 


Ed. 


Page One Hundred Eighteen 


~ 


LE AeA ORC, i A A A a olan 6 me 
ee Ne NE HR CR. NN at SO nee UE 

ene nib a ai ec le NS i an RCRD a Same name ah 2 

cave anne i COLT EDL LARA ELA LADIES 


—— ATT Se > 


a 


iii =e: 



































1-9 84, * -WIaet 


AAOH2 UAATZAS atk GHA.YTVUGO TH l@ 


bebulant bar “jsed2 atemed” oft ee onondt gainnigad os 4 
cow Ti baw bomen sew ynuos etd 0A Al a9viK 

jemee yelt, ybol odT opid snl we de gonad ni wiawo) 43 1 
Sr) no hsbrved’ :ronsmehong nemnqesg 3b mi Uroene m0 toe ny? 

wn stesunnY :Rel od} no asx oft an intel 2 aidisW mow ¢ 
wns ais SATE at “WW ods ao poll saleeqezdD on) To bewee on 
so bred OAL nt niegs bar asemed Io obie- linedes adrino beter 
ods balize od baaten yun Maismod oxienianiY jo -noiszn3 od7 20 5 
AtasrgodD sedi Jod or 


noianeM sbioeaT odT | = 


ni tliud .noiamel4 sidonsT ons ebogme rome nmi V/ sant Yo bes iebe os A 
te? linet no ebnenw ooknen ofT jolacgetilgad as lo niga adi y98e bas Aand ¥ a 
ot. to Insbieng ,oldacsT ent norlnid (a idgued “bretdaof” Jo neq yilenis 
¢ bee igo ort ezowsn ino) OOS rvoris a Agile: aonnem 241 Sind aries, danrammag ae 


tonal oi Jud coimuueee Ai Yeo jon <alaneehew asnsimA “ies To 


dre 
: ty 
permis: 
| : 
vidons 231 en Inveuau 24, agar ynoga) owl baw gaiblind lextaz « zed saad 2 iy 
werwo ose silimad senoltib said of eynolsd noianamm get ser tet orks a “ey 
‘neq leybivibni aid on boob a ae 


a 


mone aeheydent A 7 


pied cc sham’ <i viawes mermed To mine nore A 
iftoiw Don Cad in nidorvenn werem Bee bevertorn mor! wags ody * ‘ured 4 {owt 
1 (waved “Teme? on ; WH word ai dvuds cunsaedentl tn ode boda Jame 
mrciq uws sz: ty narvaepwl vilerer Wins te ioNem & nox and prs 


“ip. , 


aarwh lo buon et Ihtt wand here weeds sen Leordeldanrs ‘ol be 38 | yas 
diy ny esst? baninU ad) revo Ue aneheydesvl doinw dvds & sind 
ee oman swolhw one 6) INStneENGM f Ae Pr i Wie, tava le: 
basalyret A Agua in yew @ t bedrow sempdel ziveorl vip bas sgmuor bic 
sred mus hae) bas insmunomn A 2 ines saath wboonen on bel 
ef bon .non4 liw af bes od stodw Joqe wir ie .gbndbantdesfqasa) be 
chiw garvib bayeviviss oh unoenqa sag off Lond aoed sved ot Lsvpiled 
| ytieesid at beeied 
: Fe ee ce 
woah linet 

2) Tent oft seed senq ofpolo 2oeeso0t ib odt oii dond oda 
sgbolwondss: ow dood vind zit te utildued od? al .oxmaul ay 
vial eeudeibee te ono to Jromegemenm bor maqqae. off 
borasl4 siizseT lite ont nt pood exe. 

ba 


Queenstown 


The Queenstown News of April, 1999, carried a very comprehensive historical sketch 
of “Old Queenstown,” by Rev. G. Croft Williams. We are ereatly indebted to the Fditor 
of the News for the loan of such an interesting Cocumeit. It is a matter of ee that we 
can not print the sketch in full, but no attenipe has been made in these pages to go verv 
deeply into the history of the Shore. The subiect is inexhaustible, 


Queenstown, like Princess Anne in Somerset, is older than history. Quoting Mr. 
Williams—“The first settlers in this part of the country prebably emigrated from Kent 
Island during the dispute waged between Claiborne and Lord Balaroe: From the 
situations of hie oldest settlements and the lay of the old highways we conclude that 
Queenstown was the center from which population radiated more than two and a half 
centuries ago.” 


“In 1706 the General Assembly created Queen Anne’s County out of Talbot and 
Kent, this part of the county formerly belonging to Kent. 


The county-seat was named Queens Town in honor of Queen Anne, the English 
sovereign, for whom the county was also named. 


There were great doings in those days, and according to our historian “Executions 
were conducted in Gallows Field, whose name remains as the only reminder of the 
exercise of the law in those days.” We also learn that a whipping post was erected in 
Queenstown, and on Aug. 26th, 1718, an unfortunate woman was given twenty lashes 
on her bare back till the blood appeared. Other implements of punishment were the 
stocks, the pillory and the branding irons. 


In 1748, a man stood in the pillory with the word “cheat” on his back, while he was 
pelted by the populace. His crime was giving “short reasure.” The branding irons were 
seldom used, but according to the stern code ‘of that veriod, they were considered neces- 
sary. Inasmuch as the year 1748 wes before the day of anesthetics, one is led to be- 
lieve that the branding process was not altogether painless. The offenses for which men 
might be branded were perjury, seditious libel, manslaughter and thievery. 


Tobacco was the medium of exchange, and in 1713, one Samuel Hunter conveyed to 
Richard Hammond lot No. 42, the purchase price was 15,000 pounds of tobacco. 


The Free School made its appearance in Queen Anne about 1732, erected as near the 
center of the County as possible. “Visitors were appointed to direct the school and were 
instructed to purchase 100 acres of land and erect on it a schoolhouse and residence for 
the master.” The salary was $100.00 per year. 


“Had you stood on Prospect Hill, on a certain day in 1817, you would have seen 
what was then a strange sight. A little boat with side paddle-wheels came puffing up 
the river. The “Surprise” was her name, a very appropriate one, commanded by Capt. 
Spencer. This was the first stearm-boat to enter Chester river. 


Another interesting item states that “Joseph Hartley,” an itinerant Methodist preacher, 
was apprehended in Queen Anne’s county, on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, for preach- 
ing the gospel; he gave bond and security for to stand his trial at court. He was then 
obliged to desist from preaching in that county; but he would attend his appointments, 
and after singing and praying, he would stand on his knees and exhort the people ull his 
enemies said they had as lieve he should preach on his feet as on his knees.” 


Page One Hundred Nineteen 


Ro sete 


ood) xew oH .nuoo 1 Isn cid ee od sob ere bnew hood seeyeond 






































dotodz Invporul avensdonamns 197 6 mg 1 

void ors or baxdsivai Witeorny ae kK) 

oy Jed? toys lo wer eet Hh tu ‘hl 

VIS¥ OY GO) 29NET Ser tone ote mt nied 75 wpregtte on won i 
Vedodevedyoni ai tout WT nod 


4 gattou) ovoid cade whlevedyemasmne? ai onnhy waite? oa 

109A moni bosayins yidedurg wanes be non aid ab 
oh met nemnteh trad-bae sesedial® ete boynw wh 
jefy sahbulone ow evex dgid tlo sh te gal ont bow etnornobsrse robles 
led & bas ow? esis som tromibey taeda ‘doirks mont toned Set mm 


4 . a < 


ban todlkT Yo tuo winuwod esand ay? lores. yldareeA leisaeD srs oOT! al®™ 
“1037 oF geignoled ~Asenict yas sy Io big ds I 


wit ody sank nxuO to roned af aweT ans bomen dew Inseam 
Aborran cele cow piaues ody mortar vol 


t~monunAxA” Aghonid wo o3 ytiinons tum 2yeh seals m 2gat0b 1614 mI 
21 lo wsbaims: yino sdf eb enianin senan seodw ‘Lb ewolleO. at bow 
fi beter etw nog xoiqgidw s i.4i ool cele off =“ aveb sods ai wel odds ins 
eorlenl yinows fovl1y sow femow genenwing as Att! iat uA no bare ,¢ 0 
wi) 399W. Inarnileimud to edetIT alti) vee) -lrameqgqe boold ols tls dond op i 

sou goiboerd si) baw yiolfiq ; 1 


caw on oliciw toed 2id ao “teeds" brow wali pier holley ad: ai boos aso« APL 
vIIW anon satin ead od “ nuzeor node” waive ane seniv ai -2aeluqoe ols 
orivenos naw yorlt bona rede 1G Shes cate ot of ynilnose sud been a 

o oF hol 2: ono 2autens jo yab-odt syitsd aca BRT weg sci es low 
‘wot “ow iwi eszaohe od T eolning yedtrperls.. so eeus ee] Robnrad only 
Gavel) bne riguelenam Jorkl asoitibos une new bobnerd ¢ 


a! Lovovaws wel lovme2 ono FIST ab Wide 2cothns Yo mutbom dt sew ox 
op2ado! to eLaueg OOF! see wg salnug od £+ of tol baonmeH § 


2) inate betom fT iveds onA asaQ) nl sonmesqne an Slinm Toole? ort 3 
mov bas loos: sit tosh oF Loin eapege Row poten / Wdizvag a yinueD odd 9 
10} o2kien bas sevorlonde a 1 ate head bee! in asiae OOF sendy * 

‘wert ry OOLO1E sew “Sproles ol 


noe vent bluew. vor S18] ai veb met « ao li treyaorl ae boor 
qu yarfiug somes zie wil ier, obra iw mod sian! F. JIlgte: TqO ETE ‘& mois 


248) vd fsbaermos .se0 WoNGQNWIGs Vis’ & won tad ecw ” 


Jovn sasestventir Seusotepae qh ott enw eif 


aadseng tibodioM ynersniti ne "ohh desea] seek Seek ate : A 
‘ase ro} baste Yo 20d2@ mowed ofp Ro aves vans, mpnQ ani b ar 


anominionge aid baoie blag sh sud sptemes tot ai aida ta ab ot ta 
eit Ilit slqaod of} nodes bat @ond sid ne hime blow od .yneveny bag vats % 
“esond eid no 26 deat aih oo Howse lluenie sd ovoil eo | a 

P a 

‘ " 7 7 oe a v i. | 

master’ berbnuHt an aga aA of 





a tar 


Salisbury 


Beautiful, serene, charming, and altogether fair, Salisbury sits proudly on a slight 
eminence overlooking the lazy waters of the Wicomico. 

Strength and wisdom, and grace and beauty are hers. The roses of love are twined 
in her hair—her eyes are fixed on the heights ahead. 

Achievement is hers; progress is hers, and to none does she crook the pregnant 
hinges of the knee that thrift may follow fawning. 

Independence is hers—so far as independence may be achieved. Wealth is hers, and 


from her loyal sons and daughters, love in its fullness abides and blesses. 


Advance criticism of this publication was to the effect that it would be “top-heavy 


d 


with Salisbury.” Why not? if Salisbury has been favored—there’s a reason. Salisbury is 
home, and what is dearer to a man than his home! No one knows better than we the sin 
and shame that hedge her about; and no one knows better the inherent kindness of her 
great heart—the strong under-current of religious feeling that beats. in her breast. 

No one knows better her virtues and her vices, and no one is quicker to forgive her 
faults and sing her praises, than we who have lived within her bounds for the past twenty 
five years. 

Without her wholehearted cooperation this little book could not have been built. 
We do not hold that she is any better; that her streets are wider or her grass any greener. 
We only know that we love her because her name spells home. She is a living, vital part 
of the Shore—all of which is fair enough to tempt any man to build his home within 
its bounds, and say with conscious pride—“Thy people shall be my people and thy Gods 
shall be my Gods.” 

Every town and hamlet; every lake and stream, and every flower bordered nook is 
ours. We hold it in common as a gift from heaven, and the high privilege is ours to call 
it home. 

With a full heart, we echo the sentiment of that poetic soul, who exclaimed—“The 


Chesapeake Bay on the West, the Atlantic Ocean on the East, and God’s Country in 


between. EDITOR. 


Pa ge One . Hundred Twenty 


dealt: te 


ines. eee 


ee ee ee rineg indy We restiniee ade odoo-ow ,nnod Tha a 










idgile # ao ylbuorq 2 qodeiln2 inl er ious, = se 


ost sir te sol oils a ieee EN 


inal ye” 
boniwy s16 2vol to 22201 oT rod nis pte” a's SInTY bas unobeiw b 


-busds atilgind 2d 10 bax oe aha 

inengsaq oth. dow oz 2b snon of bas aisd a eengorq id ron: 
-gnitrand vrollod tev Hinds second . 

bre aro ai ritleoW .bovoidon sd yn soebregabni es tet o2—vtorl ai sonsbnoqaball 
eed bos 2bide eeallal ai ai ovol sidgueb bas enor Inyo! xsd 





















yvest-qor” od Bluew 1) tc ioe od? of tow nojexidug ult to menitns sonevbA 

ti yrudetleé nwoeks « e'nali—lenovel aad andl guedaifee Ti Soon ydW  “ynedeied? 

vie ods ow oertt yore evond sao of !smod eid aad nem 6 of amssb zi Jadw bap om 

tol do meaabnid ianodni od) tatod evond ano oa bog ;nvodn tod Suborl tart omnsile bate ‘ 
fecowl rod ni eiecd tad ‘gnifsel euomyiln to mirquossbae gaowe odi—neod. a 

iar! s¥ig ol oF raaloinp ef one on bas .2sei yall bom eseniv dosed ewoad sano < 

yo! tanQ eit vol abnued ted cisbiw bsvil ved aelw ow ands aoaigiq rorl annie bas alus 7 


tied ooxl sved tom biudo dood sinil sha) ootmageus bansatolodw sat wow , 
16 mg wd yo wobiw ste esoite aod tent sored gan a ace torli blord ton ¢ ¥ / 
Sth nivil sei od2 vor elfoqe Seast tof seueosd eel oval ow ted wordy , 
udltiw ootod aid blud of asm (ne tat oF dguer> rie) & doidw to ie—norl2 
ebow) yeti bre slqosq ym oi are signa yd" —abing avomznes ditw yne bas. abe 
: “ebod ym Tarde 
toon bavabad yewoll ove baie .oeste bas adel move doled bane nwo cow a 
les of eure 2) ss idy " oi aa a mort ay & 26 MOMUMOD i Tt blod 2 a 


1 De hh e450 & a 


ee « , 
be og BP 


ai yuqueD 2 be? brie .6el odt no we seorbA ode se W odt noiynll 


gue 
ey = mt 


ie. 


AOTIA 





ih 


Sa lis b uU l Y— Continued 


eit 1732—1938 


Salisbury is a young thing—petted, loved and hated by her fair sisters of the Shore. 
‘ : ‘) e ef 
Salisbury Town,” for that was her charter name, was born Aug. 8th, 1732. With a 
colorful pageant—long to be remembered, her 200th anniversary was celebrated Aug. 8th, 


1932. 


From Miss Maria Ellegood’s delightful little book—A Sketch Of The Early History 
Of Wicomico County And Salisbury, we learn that the town charter is ancient, unique, 
and interesting. George Washington and Salisbury should have been schoo]mates—they 
were born the same year. 


Salisbury has been located in three counties, and one of its older residents declared 
that he had lived in three counties, and yet had always lived in Salisbury. 


No attempt has been made to incorporate in these pages any considerable amount of 
historical subject matter. This has been fully covered by Charles J. Truitt’s “History of 
Salisbury,” and the accurate and informative sketches found in Miss Ellegood’s smaller 
edition already referred to. 


According to the late Dr. William J. Holloway, many native Salisburians may trace 
their origin back to the Celtic inhabitants of Britain prior to the Roman conquest. Today 
there is the purest strain of Anglo-Saxon blood flowing in the veins of the inhabitants of 
this city and county than may be found elsewhere in the United States. It is to be hoped 
that Salisbury appreciates this testimony to the blueness of her blood, and will govern 
herself accordingly. 


Further quoting Dr. Holloway, whose unremitting labor brought to Salisbury the 
State Teacher’s College—“When the Emperor Claudius invaded Britain A. D. 43, Roman 
Legions established on the grassy hills Belage (Later Wiltshire) A mighty fortress which 
they called Sorbiodium. Cerdic, founder of the West Saxon Kingdom, fixed his seat of 
government there. In the beginning of the 6th century, by the Celtic element, this 
settlement was called Sarum; by the Saxons, Saresbury; and eventually by the English, 
Salisbury. 


About 1220 the inhabitants of old Sarum moved down into the fertile Avon Velley, 
two miles distant, and there established about the new Cathedral a New Sarum, or 
Saresbury. In such manner was the modern city of Salisbury, Wiltshire, England, 


founded. 


After Charles IT ascended the throne and following the abortive Penrudocke rising 
on his behalf in 1665, many prominent residents of Salisbury and Wiltshire—some of them 
leaders under Cromwell—emigrated to America and settled on the lower Eastern Shore 
of the Palatinate of Maryland, that they might enjoy peace. personal liberty and happiness. 
Joined by their countrymen. who at first had settled in other provinces, they sought to 
perpetuate here the customs, mannerisms and names familiar to Anglo Saxon history. 
The story_of their achievements forms a colorful chapter in American history, and parallels 


the history of the city of Salisbury.” 


Page One Hundred Twenty One 


trac tN nati A A 5 i i ni ethene nite ste sie. 


ate cae sein cama nme sien et el messin omental isin ibid is dan sth sen Sart masini bt ian 





“node orlt to 212012 Vie) tad ed doped ae bevel boreq—gnidy 
edn SEL hk geek aod cow pmee rorepls, Ww serlt 
ti .gué, Lomdolss aew gienavinas AOE yd indmonn od-cs 


; 























are 


Qowilt vyhed aT 30 doisde 4.--dowd algeit leldgileb e'boogslF she wil @ "4 

Aupita Joos uw wheds nvwot sft aeds aves! ta inept ie ak vnue) note ot 

coor—emamlouhe osed syed Lived yd bos noTynides ego) oy nes tt 
"* 3099 oma odd aod 


Lynaioeb atnsbies isblo. 231 Jo one bre Naas sad) iy) bargool. need anil . 
“qudeilsé ai bevil eqewle Ged av bee eonnves saids ni bovil bed 


Invern sdmabirnos yne eeseq ses) a Sieoqiwon! oF sham nox. sed 1qmoNe & ) 
© QowH” eomerl | eohatD vd bsves yihit med end 2tT o:iteen ysoedoe basi 
seme a’ boopslit 221M ni bavet esdataile sybeenolni iam ote “sel 7 


a < 


.! bonsin ybents ag 


sons) vern enchudeile2? sven ynem -vewolloht mci ¥2. 20 sas! ods on gaiby 323A 


(chal  revpnos nemall oder os Ton men to emoarieledni 21s act of oond als ino" 


te 2inemdnda: ods to enry orl)-ni unreal boold nh wicéclynk lo aisue ol. i: rt 
wea od od etl ese? bovin oni at Sesthwsels bauocl od yer nel tae tan vio ate 
arvoy liw i ,beald wed jo zzrosnded sas Oo) ytomuien} ztrly aseanayn nudeile: ee 

-vlgounooga thse 


U veils 0 tnvcow weal “Urea peurhw vewollolt aq gniloup. = h) a be 
minmon + OO A niet 1H bsbevan cohuntS Vero 4 sels ns —<99aflo : 


se) 
I #¢ 


sy ; 


~ 


inal wtgun A (ovisteslW vated) agatotl ollid yeeete adi no brorlaildates 2 roigs 
“ul heed .niolmain force jeoVi arts lo brnval oatas> nuiboidyo2 291 an © 
ay sled sft vd oes MA oA In aninaiged od; nl .siod? snsenees 


theiton { orft vd vilausages bos woderme i aA arly vd imnuied bolle enw Hit " sly 


roleY novAé slings) ods era) aval borat afin? file wo einetidnidai opty Ossi md, 7 
wr wrne? wet ¢ lobed wear aly nitele Dotrikiiaey seedy bere wines ele . 
baaignl  ithsli  eidaile2 Yo otis asim ors tee tonne door al . yam 


vin sdioluensl svinods oft enrroled fine anol aids bebrrssen UT 2s! ith? 79 \ 
mont to anes bas vudailee Fe-etnsien onineng yom SOP oF isd am 
nace wind weal ody ne Loatsrse het sore t, ot beteryinre-—llsvrenenl? mu bi 
eon rent baa vial Ingen .o1090q Youle radi 1003 .baclril4 Yo stenitelet ode 
cH Iduuoe yyely asaya jolie ni Loli hed not ge ode weorrenatiens siotkt yd 3 
nomid mince alpat. op acilirne’l spnan foe enviaaneen amgzu? Wi wen ie 
rolling bes conid nosis. ob raends hiolos » aml anaitrvecitse ris Ay or 
“erudeile? Yo ‘yin onl Yo. oe 


he 
a 





Continued 





Salisbury 


Thomas W. H. White, Sr. (“Capt. Tem.”) was an original character. Born in 
Wicomico County Mav. 1831, he was lumberman, sailor, farmer and noet. His Books. Of 
The Bible Condensed In Verse was prebably written in his 80th year. A men of strong 
convictions, his homely vhilosonhvy is stil! quoted. His name was a synonym for honesty 
and integrity, and no man in the county was held in higher regard. His death occurred 
in September, 1923. 


THE BOOKS OF THE BIBLE CONDENSED IN VERSE 
THE OLD TESTAMENT 


We have Genesis and Exodus, with Leviticus and Numbers, too, 

With Deuteronomy—five books of Mosaic teachings true; 

Also Jeshua, Judges and Ruth, with First and Second Samuel, F 

First and Second Kings, and First and Second Chronicles, with Ezra showing 
Immanuel. 


Nehemiah. Esther, Job, with Psalms and Proverbs many; 

By Ecclesiastes, the Son of Solomon, and Isaiah taught to any; 
Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel and Daniel true, 

With Hosea, Joel and Amos—great things are brought to view. 


Also Obediah’s prophecy and Jonah’s indiscretion, 

With Micah’s word of God and Nahum’s Lordly vision, 
Habakuk and Zephaniah, while Haggai asks addition, 
Zechariah exhorteth repentance and Malachi religion. 


THE NEW TESTAMENT 


St. Matthew, St. Mark and St. Luke make display of facts, 

Then we have St. John and his teachings through the Acts. 

Next comes Epistle to the Romans, with First and Second Corinthians, 
Gaiatians, Ephesians, and letter to the Philippians. 


Colossians, First and Second Thessalonians, First and Second Timothy seen 
With Titus, Philemon and Hebrews, Paul’s letters are fourteen. 

Then comes Epistle of James, First and Second Peter’s version, 

First, Second and Third John, with Jude and Revelation. 


The object of this writing is to so condense in rhyme 
That the Books of the Bible can be learned in little time; 
And what additions I have made through this rhyming course 
Is done as points to memorize and press the mind with force. 
OED VIATK. 


(GAPD). THOMAS We Ho. WHITE 


Page One Hundred Twenty Two 


AT A SRN NR leant ns sth eases cnc en HS. 


_— : = a 


kel - * - TEA’ be 
4 iv ee ee 














































oi moh commends Inaipmo on enw Pee ae”) 2 ovid HW? cen 
12) zdoofl i 00 bn etre? xl steeredmn! ewer of PERT 
gnonk lo n-ne A .1es¢ dOR aid at asi witedein aw see nl te 9 
nesned tol rrrnony few senna 3 | JBototr [lie i vrleoolirks wleciid ai 

bonne dish eifl tnegn vodpiAd mt blset enw einuos sd? nit nom on bas 4 


e “ai, aaa 
aenaT 41 ONe7adyve> wai — 40 noon aur 


TAAMATZAT G10 ae 


oof .2tediteYt Bite @5i vol ditw iboxt! bae etesied Wrai 

.913 egnishenet sineol to edood ovit—tmonowiped 4 

leonias?@ beooe® bie teria dthw en bre sonbul . 

silwods ows diiw .eeloinow!) bweseB bie jet bus opal weer 
oa 


oernd edvevort bos eoterd Aiiw dol tedied deta 

7(os8 of Jd_0e? GARET baw nomole? to wok ols 
sir Whol bas sidext eoovaiaomp. 

.wely of Idsootd ea enrids josie eae baa lool 


solterribn eitseel bas wedqorq #' deihadOlost 

nolefy thial fade’ dna bod to Mow eda dvi 
Oni bbe ate leaucH athtw ,datandiqsS ban ee . 
.noigiley ifealal, bas ssaatneqs: diariodxs d 


o. 


‘ee 7a 
TASMATAAT WAX 4UT 


2007 Yo elqalh adam oft. 42 baa ale 52 poral 

tie’, of) Rapin? efidtvet gid bee odo. 2 evade 

mada mo buoosd bis eA Aliw ~«nemon of} @) aijaiqa 
aneiqqhia? eff of 17itel bas amatesdg 


tose YllomlT fro! Dre tel eawlioleseedT buoted® bag sett 
-woolhiwo) eta eteisel fest «cdelH baw nomelidd 

noi’ emied bupove bore tatit 2ogmk Jo sfteied as 

uotalevel hae ebal iiiw .wlal bid baa bre 


sareta al eauobier o8 0) al galthrw vith Yo Joe 
vi!) etl of Genwi! of nm olditl os lo aneat 
geinu» yolucuds elds tapords obam Sra 1 semanas’ 
rig ifetie bunt wl) rsorq ban ashomew as mabe 





aon 


HAT a0 : 
ATHIW OW @AMONT (THAD) 


Sa lis b Ur Y— Continued 





Robt. P Grier, Sr. Theodore Roosevelt 


WHEN T. R. CAME TO SALISBURY 


WHAT'S IN A NAME? 


‘In the days when surveyors used white oak stumps, fence posts, and ditches, as guides 
in laying out and describing land for court records, the owners of those tracts in Wicomico, 
Worcester and Somerset counties added to the color of the proceedings by the names and 
titles they gave their property. 

Names such as “Punishment”, “Hard Luck,” “Taylor’s Hardship,” “Chance,” or 
“Puzzle,’—which appear on deeds of property in these counties—may have reflected the 
quality of the land or the moods of the owners. In that case there is evidence that some 
of the tracts brought prosperity to their owners who gave their farms such titles as 
“Choice,” “Dale’s Delight,” “Lankford’s Delight,” “Buck in Time,” or “Pointers Gift to 


»”» 
. 





Purnel 
The deed on “Punishment” on record in Wicomico County courthouse is dated 1867, 


bearing the names, William R. Parker from John White. Another, “James Choise” was 


dated 1868. 


Fruitland’s early history is brought to light in a deed on the property of George W. 
Rider, described in a record dated 1868 as “three-quarters of a mile of Forktown.” That 


was Fruitland’s original name. 
A certificate and plat of a water survey for Nathaniel Covington dated 1868 is typical 


of the surveys made to determine areas for oyster planting in the Nanticoke River. C. C. 
Donaho figured as one of the early surveyors. 


Page One Hundred Twenty Three 









AF an a 
baitho—f 








aie ¢ 2. 4 A coe” 
{ Oo? : Ibe 
' we) ‘ 


i 























e ie 
| - 
| os! ae 7 ehy 
1 WP ins 
= ree | - 
ay ( 





} » 
L , ; 
4 
1 Fs 
p (cs) £§ 
. aud | 
: c an 
: J 
: an 
. ; 
_— = lien —_ bid han, Afi esti te 
72 welt) ‘I ido 
‘Sha inwW : 
» 
rrAt A Al 2 ALivy wy 
ih .? it, 4 ee sirlue | 12 Pera uive 2veby sett ale 
" J fy a7 wi f ttidrrs 25h bac hid bat E ai 
; m wh os “10> jortomod bar astesete We 
fhaqenq wordt ovey vod? 2sin 
; ef ut heed romana” ee douse. eorte 
mm } : 43 » vivo ‘fr el Oo nO Insqqe dyvaw—"* lai 
Si} Waroiivs e ) . : rl peers ui! ; 4 Lore ois Ww bs scl oely lo vileug 
rin) doy TI) Wty ¥) ivr 2TONWO heh al vict “en q idevorl mn ody ie 
of Yitw erainied” a0 T ai Aull” “4 igiist! a’bnoidant” “ads gill 2 olatl” “is A” 
- c WT 
wh 2t savodhn ue) our WF wt ides no af Re no bash dT = 
ow “setod) vormral” va j a adel qunl wohed = wine wht goin aT 
aah hg 
Mf saint Yo Prrneq salt no ho eon idyel ay rdnwond *s RSA AME ebnuliatt * 
mit svete] de olin ¢ In ranLup- ww" e¢ MOAT bowh tno 6 fi batliasesb | bi 
oman loaigho eheeltin eow 
a lnpiqgy? 2) AG beth ant nario) loicodieVY-ral yarnwe rotew 6 lo tely bos ani A 


42.2 asd sdosiinsY ‘oh mm unstack sopeye Te) zion onterPish of shen ever od 


worse yiyee orl Jo 9n0 26 — 


pte 


ie eT YinowT cel iad am, 
i han 






da lis b uU fr Y—Continued 


Deeds of property near the Pocomoke swamp and the Pocomoke River section show 
dates of 1695, 1741, on up to the late 1800's. A deed for “Nothing Worth” owned by 


Francis Joyce was dated 1695, 


It was a tract of 225 acres. 


Others of this period and later in the Pocomoke area included “Bachelor's Adven- 


29 66 


ture, 


2? ‘ : a , . . . . 
Puzzle” owned by James Ward, “Potatoe Swamp” Nathaniel Brittingham, “Piney 


” : : 3 ; 7 tc rs 
Heap,” Ezekiel Brownhill, “Job’s Chance,” and “Long Island. 
“ T ” . a 2 bd 
‘ Smaller Neglect showing a patent date of 1814 was owned by Peter Smullen and 
Rotten Quarter” owned by Nathaniel Brumley, was dated 1759. 


Courtesy of the SALISBURY TIMES. 





i 
3 
: 





Page One Hundred Twenty Four 





ae 


» 


x ng 
ne skal at... 


i! 


ls Bs 


Pio 
ow 


THE LONE PINE 


Where the waters of Wicomico river 
Lazily wash the sands, 

Lashed by the storm and winds— 
An old pine stands; 


For one hundred vears or more, 
It has stood erect and strong, 
Watching the seagulls pass— 
Hearing the whippoorwill’s song; 


There on its lofty perch 
Overlooking the friendly river, 

It stands—untouched by time, 
As tho ’twould live forever. 





Like a sentinel at his post, 
So straight—-so strong and tall, 
I say for thee, oh noble tree, 
Pray God, you’ll never fall. 
THOMAS W. H. WHITE, JR. 


AUTUMN ON THE FARM 
OF EUGENE M. WALSTON 


When golden autumn days have crowned 
The trees with red and yellow, 
And apple boughs are bending down 
With fruit all ripe and mellow, 
The farmer, then sits at his ease, 
His joy is running over, 
When looking upon the fields——he sees 
The great dark heaps of clover. 
The spacious fields of Indian corn— 
Their ripened stalks are waving. 
And heavy ears are bending down 
All ready for the saving. 
RONIE B. VENABLES, 
Eugene Walston homestead, 
Mount Hermon, Md. 


ene eatear at RR Ns a ena ins RIN Nh tee a 


Al. ATINW FH OW SA VOuT 


bere 


BAIHALAY 4 AYZOR 
baateontad voteliaW anenoR 


DV 





worm) eve avab amaivn oebleg aadW 



















% 
nina —A 1 deh \De 


vote qoirre wil sda ot) bra Gace adoro ry 1298 
yi bonwe “dne'W gnidie7" roi hash A 20081 sal ae 40 
aorse PEC Yo row & enw aT 
-eovbA >"volorlonfl” Bobulsai tore stone ods ni — bra 
ywit” wnedgoinnd loinc! "Gens? sense?” bac emenl pana xs 
“bork! yoal* bem “jsonndD 2'dol* jidawerth bides 
bas aslluen® rasoF vd pal nw *1AD Yo sinh sor0q —— 
27! bomh tee .vslann lsinedin yd 


2AMIT YAUA2LI4.2 sds to yeateD 








a719 S2ZOt ANT 


9h osintoslW jo malcw of) oredW 
ehaes of) denw vilsal 

—#bulw bes evrote off vd hodand 
:@bonja oulq blo aA 


stom 10 etast hathaud eno tHe" 
auotls has Ino boolte sad sf 
eteq ellvanse of) aoldotsW 
[R008 Wilierreoqqidw off anitanH 


is19q Whol ath no oer 
vevit vihisint off enidoolw 


ammii-yd Bsedovolaw—eboeka 
feveTO! evil hinow?s off aA 


jeoq eid ito lentinge @ ethl 

Met bos stone of-—tdalette o@ 

Ast eido@ do sedi 10) ta T 
Jia) wren Ivor hod yard 


var’ GAT FO YVICITVA 
OTSA WM AZAD IA AO 


.olles Doe bor die soot tT 
vob acibaed ete slgued slags bad 
wollec Par i Pe {fn thud iw 
sense ahf ta xhle wolf? tence? od? 
mvo antnows eb 4ot aH 
tone od —-shieR eft nogu gaidoal ged 
mano to equed siah tang oAT 

—ato® Aéihol in effeh enotoage @ 
nariew aie alfa heasqis tledT 
‘“twobl saibasd otk m165 tyroed or 


adiver wi? 102 ¢heet 


momial java 


Salishury— 


Continiuzad 





MOUNT HERMON CHURCH 


ihe fiftieth anniversary of Mount Hermon M. P. Church was celebrated in Oct. 


1938. Rededication services were held in the Church, and.a delicious dinner was served 
at 12-30 o'clock. Fifty years is not long as we measure time, and the staunch little Church 
is not 1vy-covered nor gray with age, but it is well beloved by those who find within its 
walls that peace which comes to the children of God. Bravely and nobly it is playing its 
part in spreading the gospel of the lowly Nazarene. 

Many prominent families connected with the early history of the Mt. Hermon Church 
still are well-known names in the county. This includes the Walstons, Smiths, Fooks, 
Hammonds, Parkers, Perdues, Hastings, Collins and Tilghmens. The Rey. Frank M. 
Volk of Pittsville is pastor of the church. 

It was during the pastorate of the late Rev. George McCready in the year 1886, that 
the members of Parker's Chapel reatized that they needed a larger church, end they 
decided to build a new edifice instead of enlarging the old building. When it was dis- 
covered that the Methodist Protestant Conference had no legai right to the land upon 
which the chapel stood, Mr. Eugene M. Walston, superintendent of the Sunday School, 
gave the congregation a deed for an acre of land from his farm. It was upon this tract 
of land that the present church was erected. 


A TRIBUTE TO THE EASTERN SHORE § The blushing rose, its dainty leaf, 


Were I to journey in foreign lands, 
And to roam the wide world o’er, 
No tairer home would I desire 
Than Maryland’s Eastern Shore. 


’'Tis a goodly land, ’tis a favored spot, 
'Tis the garden of the world; 

On a better land, in a fairer clime, 

No banner is yet unfurled. 


Its beauties, too many are yet untold, 
But they lure on every side— 
By the verdant hill, the gentle stream, 
And down by the ocean wide. 


In bowers of festive green, 
In sturdy oaks and stately pines, 
Its grandeur dwells serene. 


The searlet berry in springtime comes, 
The lucious peach in June; 

The golden wheat and melon sweet 

In their turn to follow soon. 


With fragrance fills the air; 
While lilacs wild and violets sweet 
Are nestling everywhere. 


Here sports and pleasures too abound, 
peneath the pale moon’s light; 
Under beaming rays of summer sun, 
As clotned in a mantle white. 


Their names on fame’s historic roll 
It’s noble sons have traced; 

While stations high and banquet halls, 
tts daughters too, have graced. 


Its lovely maids of modest mien, 
Their beauty rich and rare, 

In country, village, or town I ween, 
Are the fairest of the fair, 


The homes where love and peace abide, 


Which discord ne’er comes o’er, 
Are next to Eden in thelr joys 
On the beautiful Fastern Shore. 
S. KERR SLEMONS, 


(Written in 1897) Delniar, Md. 


Page One Hundred Twenty Five 


a eee a eal A le 
ae 


ner a cnn mei tires eet aniiad hs stein 


ee nm a a ne Alege 


“YOMAI2 Wine A , joowe nsiom 
bM “tuted (Peer ot meni W) 









A reoe 
| 46 «at 
“4 ws wig 1 

a 4 4 Kee “ 

















































HOARD 4OMATH TAUOM 
WO i bwmdsiss 207 «nodD 4 JM pmensld jncol4 to yiesevinns dia 
havin agw ronal enroile wy © brs aad) ati on Lied NSA rive nore 


Ave) sit tenant odt bre sorrel MR IH th EMO tad al e1G3y Pan ti | waals'o 0 

en autuve brn ow seurs 1d bavoled dlew a ti ned nye deve {Hig ten box ¥ 

an grrcaty ai on vidon bus slvr aril hap fe wotbiluds ods 0) 491805 douhe 33699 J 
amaeene ysvrol ot Ye loqeo im 2d shibenaiel i 

ht.2 wereld 1A ol) do wroteon vhie»s a: titre bots anes soiled krwimoiq ie 


eavot ete erovloW ah) esbuliel BHF .eawos ot nt eseen eretun a-ow 
WM dnot vel oAT  ancrodelif hae enilied agave gaia, araadiel ibe am 
tonurts od! Jo yorenq ei ollivenil oJ y 

ult MHA] anev sel) gi ¥henDiM -~ysenh) v3 aaal orl te We lomeLy x ya aw a 
tod lara lotus — & lobes york) sed? boxiins loqedD Pysdied Yo siedae | ones 
eb enw st aol Conthtind tile ot yotitlas jo Lowen sibs won £ bliud os bebisg 
u Sit oft at lett fensl an Lad vane) toctannT miborlioM alt andy L PIV 
Moe “bbageé orl? jo rsbnoinnsqwe ele 1 oyu aM ,boow leas od don 
a eed? ioe aww 1 nei el ded Binal do arc an al hesb s nol 


BND 
dates cen dans inseng oly pater 


inl VeeikD =P eet aaidantil vet SNONe AHUTCAS SMD OT ATY 
Vin wil) ail) sonurand? HW 
ctulaky ban bliw aol slew “bust agiotot mt Yoru « 
Hw Gees Refinen oth 19'0 bhow shtw od) tm 

. etlasd 1 binow Lepapewhd 

side ones a basally 


vel} 


j oO #o0 tensa bag arroye ssa 
git een ateq wd) Hie 










cy (0 ais Je «L068 KOiee! yoann Ji&qe betovad « a .banl vihe 
wily sinew a ul betiete oA ‘binow oad! Yo ashy 
ligt ci7Ginidt 2"sttal do aoman ale? omtifs qeitet Boal peal ae, 
hewitt oveud wien vidon @u -beiraay 49k, ato 
wileit trap! bee doit enultpiy 
hove vtad oe) state empl aM blotsw Soe 978 rel 948 
oun eit ip «bilan clowdl dl set olingy ods itd a eee 
th Dp gAds {1 ae 
et Deeeiwd eipead way biw ig9o. ila 
ae bared Idee “eas «4 4 
Th) iP Yor Jeurgnt eab zg 
ort hes ateein 
SHAK sxn0q hak ot aoitw sonia one &  aetes at ws 
VY, ands 4A'aa Meal ouda 
etol tied) nt pail of teem atk _ PMO. enn 4 se 
rele wit (a livoued ei a ~ 





avid vinewT babu an ogu4 


Sa lis b u lr Y—Continued 


AN OLD FAVORITE 


The people nowhere feel so bright 
As on the Eastern Sho’. 

And troubles nowhere seem so light 
As on the Eastern Sho’; 

The Chesapeake comes rolling by— 
All kinds of game is soaring high, 

And sportsmen here are very nigh— 
Around the Eastern Sho’. 


The days are nowhere quite so dear 
As on the Eastern Sho’, 

Nor birds so filled with song and cheer 
As on the Eastern Sho’; 

The flowers nowhere bloom so sweet—_ 
And nowhere maidens dress so neat 

For style and beauty seem to meet 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 


The people here all treat you right, 
Down on the Eastern Sho’, 
The skeeters even are polite 
Down on the Eastern Sho’: 
The place to live—if you can? 
That heaven prepared for mortal man, 
Is surely fashioned on the plan 
Of the good old Eastern Sho’! 


ANONYMOUS 


Everybody, it seems, takes his pen in hand and writes of the Eastern Shore. Eastern 
Shore poems came to us by the score—two score. They came from far and near—white 
and colored, old and young; we found ’em stuck under the door—jammed in the mail 
box, and every day a new one arrived. Some were good and others just half good, but 
with one accord they all sang of the Eastern Shore. “Sang in tones of sweet emotion—- 
songs of love and songs of longing.” 


Whatever may be said of the Eastern Shoreman, irrespective of where he is, or whe 
he married, where he lives or what he does, he is loyal to lis native land. He feels—and 
rightly so, that the world revolves around the Shore. 


- To him the “Golden Shore,” is the Eastern Shore, and all the beauties of the 
“Promised Land,” were fashioned after a pattern borrowed from Sunny Maryland. 


There is something about the Shore that makes people love it; it can not be defined, 
nor weighed or measured, but it is here. Staid old Yankees from New England—highly 
sophisticated New Yorkers, and big broad shouldered sons of the middle West, feel it 
coming on just as soon as they cross the Mason & Dixon’s line. 


The National Convention of the Quota Club made the Welkin ring with the tuneful 
strains of “The Good Old Eastern Shore” in Denver, Colorado. P. Dale Wimbrow, red 
headed, freckled face son of the soil, author of the rollicking melody referred to, who was 
born in Whalleyville and lived everywhere, has lifted up his Whalleyville baritone and 
sang it to forty million music lovers—from Maine to the Everglades of Florida. According 
to Dale, there are only two people in the U. S$. who haven't heard it—one 1s deaf and the 
other has no radio. 


Page One Hundred Twenty Six 











































—xd werilin moo 4#soqase8D aa 
git guitnes a atray to shold MA Z 
—ifpin wit Fred vuseltogs Dah - : : 

“od meteed oi) batoTR, 


2aeb o8 site ewilwon sta wteb oT 
“ote wresect dt ao ah” 
999 bee Beane a) Ww ball oe ebuid ton 
“602 werent off no ek x 
—ouws ov moetd «tofwou evywoR efT 
esa oe eaoth anebinm siotwon BOA 
leon of etree Taeed bas olvta 04 
‘Ode arstanta «d+ tro awotl 


Jdait woe Jaev) ia oxed elqoaq ofT 
ote tietent «di oo owod 
alilug «ta pove <19ledda ofT 
os8 praia ot) vo wrod : qe ee 
°heo BOY T--ovi! of ofniq ofT sil 
nen ienom 10) bogeqetg neveed JadT = 
~ aatq oadt ao beadidea? Uetiee al 
‘ode wretena big tooy ad) 10 - 
BUOMYAQAA . 


moved wl? avened ont to estive bat bred ni coq af codes erase i gt 
ide-—reon bine vel mol seo yotT are owt—sieoe sit yd zoos sma 
line oft mi hornmeperoob aly whee Sie vio” Gavel ow rpawoy’ bap blo (be 
ud .boon Werl teuj eredio ban boce saw amet |jede one wane patho 
hike tewe io ze) hi Ante” sd? growed ay ie Tyftne lis yorls a) 

“ yargaol Jo egace bas ovol 


whee YO .21 oF yoy 3 0 svilo9geaTy cTmaeegenle, nr gen a to bine od yen +3 


boe—-elos) off cbetel ovuan ed of legal ae a! eval) wl sgt ao astil od grec 
ned? oft lnvow rvlovs: bhow ody tedds pe 


alt jo ryttuned od: lin ban ved? speed aft «i “snod2 asbleD” ods « 
-boalymd4 ynnud tent bowonod svn © ile beneisesd tow, "baad 


Ph 
boatel sf goa and i oh vol stuee eset sedi snol2 och ode grridtyamion | sod ET 
dwt Daglyad wot mol enet blo bie ced 4 i wud betwen 70 & 
i bgt seaW olbbim ons io nee bawlifverls beord gid baw 2achoY welt } 

odal ¢ neil. a deeal/ orbt enor yorlr an nooe a8 ma 


luisewr oda sew gon atl W ot oboe duld put) att to novnsvan) | 

byes rd Wi sath: 4 wheal aovaxt mt "wal mame 0 bose a" 
new odlve ot lanier ybolsen yeviatacllin adi to vorhwe foe one on 
bas cantnwl ollrvgolled¥/ au) qu dessiil eed »ancdo pe neta oe See 
yribnanA .ebriotl do rabrlysov alta onic matt onal nel on 
alt boe lah ef sno breed Pinovad new 2. ody ol siqooquewme 7 e | 
Ld naaere >a 2th 

a7 


Cr ao ened : Hime 
rs 


eas: 
ar 


a a 


7. 





i 


Continued 





Salisbury 


If you talk to Dale about the Eastern Shore his voice gets husky; he’s a sentimental 
cuss despite his 190 pounds. If you deride the Shore his face gets red, and to continue 
at any length would be dangerous. When Dale is dead he'll be famous in Whalleyville— 
which is something to look forward to. He is so typically Eastern Sho’ that you can’t 
tell the two apart. He is just as lovable as the Shore itself—and more unreliable than the 
weather; (Eastern Sho’ weather) but he’s got that Eastern Sho’ way about him that 


makes you like him whether you want to or not. 


Speaking of the weather, if the day is fair, it is “regular East’rn Sho’ stuff,” but if it 
is bad it is not SO bad, and anyway, it is only the tail-end of a storm that drifted in from 
the South or middle West; Same thing with Dale; when he dons his company manners 
and is just himself, he is the most genial—the gentlest and kindnest soul on earth. Ask 
him to twang the Six string Uke (his own invention) when he wants to write a poem 
and he will tell you to go somewhere. But like the weather, he soon clears up, his 
freckles disappear, the tintinnabulation of his Ukulele fills the air with sweet sounds, and 
everybody is happy. 


Dale is the Shore’s greatest asset, but the Shore doesn’t know it. From Boston to 
Baltimore they are fighting over a handful of dust that was once Edgar Allen Poe. He 
got $10.00 for writing the Raven. Dale may never write so rythmically of a bird with 
sable plumage, but he can do more things than Edgar Allen ever heard of. 


Does he play the violin? he does. Did he make his own instrument? he did. Does 
he write his own radio programs? he does. Does he write both words and music to his 
songs? he does. Does he paint in oil? he does. Does his artistic ability include carving 
in wood? it does. Has he any other accomplishments besides those mentioned? He has, 
details upon application. Will he ever marry and raise a family? He is already married 
to a superb woman, and they have two lovely children, One, by the way, is Peter Dale 
Wimbrow, Jr. 


Is he popular? if you know him, you like him; dig down a littlhe—just beneath the 
freckles, and you'll find the gold of his character untarnished. Become well acquainted 
with him, and you'll love him as your own son, or brother, or as one Eastern Shoreman 
to another; and that is sufficient. Will he ever grow up? no, he is the eternal boy. 


He is the Shore’s own son, and never—nowhere, has he ever been ashamed to own 
her cause or blushed to speak her name. And why all this about him? to save the 
expense of chipping in on the cost of a marble sarcophagus when he dies. These are his 
flowers—right now and here, lavishly spread at his feet and carelessly thrown at his 
head, by one who has laughed with him and sorrowed with him; one who has supped 


with him when “a sardine and a cracker” were a royal feast. 

Friend of his? always and forever; reserving the friendly privilege to lambast him— 
upbraid him, argue with him, contradict him, hate him one minute and love him the 
next. 


I understand the varmint— 
Sometimes he saveys me; 
5 And that’s what makes a man your friend, 


So far as I can see. 
EDITOR. 


Page One Hundred Twenty Seven 


rete | ory ove brs monie ono coil sed ood tuiberinos nid w egee aid bi ; 


. es : r 
te * te. 5 ’ 4 





i. 
<i eat 
» 7 




















































’ mavtaet! ¥@ 7 
leanomitnse o e'sd sydeur oy 2104 2id nol erxowed ods mods sl 
ouminos oF bne bin yoy syet eid roe A hed wo i 2b 
livyollcAW at auomel 4 Usd hesb a4 Cnet’ store 
Yat soy turk “od? maser vilesiqu: a2 4 3H 3 Inewrot a 
ot nar oldailiinu sworn bac—leesi nodd oft ea oliweal ee oj 
‘eli mid wods yew ‘od? aystecd inl tog e964 pud ( xy 
JOD OF Ini! VOT mid 


tt ti sud “ Flase “od2 av tecd veluegon” #8 rial ei -yab ods Hy a at lo 
mou ai botink aul mor « 30 bastig 2} ylno 2 3: yewyne bas bed O82 ton 2i ti be 
eSSHAuRT YEO) ein enob sul aod coke Abe gridit seme 72907 albbien 1 ATO oa 
def, tines no luce reonbaid bne deol nay th—loinsy tear Se) 2iod Alsecnid uj ai bee 
20g & Sw Gl tinevw od notiw (aOnRSER Awe aid) slJ guna nid only gosw) oF mig 
A 

atl qu mesls noo of rodteow afi oad awe ier smnor og or uoy Ler Hive of a" 
nme twee sore ire is oy alld ohhh aif te noucludentinain arly Aexiqeib of: x t 
. “aqed ai ybodk 

of} nexzo8 mort i wond tuesch ss0d® Sb god Goes emery vnode ods 2t sig 
2H ew) aollA uyhd sano enw iad) BOBO bllintA 6 tv5 haidaa oh yori 9700n: Is 
fad 6 jo Ysoundy: oe saw tose vim sletl sxsvedhnds goin rol 00.018 sa 
fo Bicod soto goll/. vegbS analy agerisl nocvob nes od iod ognenily sidee 


2000] bib sd ‘inamureni awe zit salem od bi] “.200b od Smiloiv ods valq od aol . 
4 oF 220m bas zlnow sited sinew od eT cooly ont ‘ammeryeng oibs: awo zd ditw ¢ 
eqee> sialon ylides vigeine end exo) andy ol ‘lie ns teneq od 220] .290b of See 2 
eri wht Shrnoinar: seats dn scetetlgmeusss, milo ene ah echt .220b 5) thee io ; 
erm Yorole at OH Tylivwed 6 seas berg Wa wove of UW -Natesilqes its 
Md 43999 21 yew oft (© 2nQ warvablidogigval ent oral yous bes. siumenow drque 
i 


ai 
Oyiwe 


ot cditsned wsi—slnil go awob vib :oapd all @oy .chid vod coy hi S 
: 4 : 


: : ‘ = 

USNNGubo Low wim -berdensiung tater wid ia bitey wa bon If' voy ban ,zob; 7 
aemewnie avin sno eq 10 .to/end 36 OF 7H WUGY 2h fredyt Ay Il woy bats" nig f 
Yoo letsgs Sel} 2: wi On qu WOT Tes on ik tarseat tase u inetd bina. weiilie)s! 


oy . 
ivi t oH 


~4 


wonindes iad rove od eal lee aeyen bas woe awe 2'sod2 ods ai 
ME 94h A Sem lwode. aha Ue oiw dA, connie voi Aus of boviewld to « 
wd 6 seed T 2zib od nod aupihienes ahem Io gens wis ao ti yriqgitls Io sunt i 
ad Je sured? ybaolnes bas toot and fe fosege giedervad rod bag wea idgn—er: 
wegen zi ow ono smelt diiw bowen bac mid diiw bodyual endl orlw 30) G di 


‘62! ley eaw “roe © beeonibiee oe” asder ont 
cit Fesslirel of aystrring vibeoitt offs yates peo! bas. 





<5 


o otha; : as si 
ad ff 


Triste of) baawrebay By 6 |) ace 


i eworte od wopals wie te 4 
basht wor Ame & etme Jatw edaily Py, ae Ly 
woe ako Das tt — 


t DGG Py a eT) 7) 
“9 ae 
, - ‘4 

e r i a 7 

rd 1s 


Li} - 


HOoTIdg 


¢ 








,_@ 








Continued 


Salisbury 


STRADIVARI REINCARNATED 


Years ago John Hopkins bought a fiddle—an ordinary red fiddle with four strings. 
When Mr. Hopkins played (he was not a professor then) the neighbors filed a protest. 

The fiddle had a squeak in it, and John, as he is known to his friends, had an ear for 
tones. He took that fiddle apart to see what made it tick and why it squeked when it 
should have made sweet sounds. Maybe he found out; maybe he didn’t, but he learned 
something about fiddles. Finally, he decided to make one. Stradivari made good fiddles, 
why not he? 

From that unpretentious beginning the Hopkins Master Tone fiddles evolved, ucy 
pardon, we should have said violins. From old houses and musty lofts he gathered choice 
pieces of curly maple and well seasoned spruce. Slowly the Hopkins Master Tone 
violins emerged. The neighbors ceased to complain and the mocking birds hushed their 
singing to listen. 

From far and near music lovers, and those who like to tuck a fiddle under their 
chins, came to finger the Hopkins Master Tone—full fashioned by hand from back to 
belly, everything except the strings. here is one that he will not part with—caught in its 
graceful lines is the soul of Stradivari. 

He has discovered the secret of the ancient violin makers, and is reproducing today 
the sweet thrilling tones of the old masters; aye, even to Stradivari himselt. Who knows 
but what he is Stradivari reincarnated. 





WONDERS WILL NEVER CEASE 


In January of this year—1938, some ladyfolk of Salisbury had a party. There were 
twenty four present, and a good time was had by all. But no drinks were served—no 
cigarettes were smoked, and no swear words were sweared. The good ladies were alli 
comparative young women—and in no wise prudish or old maidish. Salisbury is always 
breaking a record on something. 





On one of his visits home, the versatile Dale Wimbrow was persuaded to give a 
concert for the benefit of a small struggling colored Church. Being highly appreciative 
of his effort in their behalf—and determined to give him the beneht ot “all his entitle- 
ments,” their advance notices referred to him as “The Honorable Mr. Peter Dale Wun- 
brow, Esquire.” 





fe he A c : ang: 

Uniting with the Church when he was ten years of age, the late Eugene M. Walston, 
participated in the congregational singing for a period of 75 years. He also gave the 
land on which stands the little Church at Mount Hermon. 


A woman was moaning the loss of her husband—who had left her bag and baggage— 
She was assured by the fortune teller to whom she appealed—that he would come back. 
Two friends discussing the situation—One of them—He will not come back,” And why, 
asked the other—did you see him, No was the reply, but 1 saw the woman. 


Page One Hundred Twenty Eight 


a 

= 

ae retcccipreeticeetenctmeene - 4 
re ee ee 



































CAA NAVIGATE i ahi ae 


zyniar wot dw olbba bo penile ne—sibbit 1 ylywod at ube: >! 

‘noteng & bola coddgion ods (eda rosin 6 lon enw od) | . bed oluba 3 : 
rol 2k ne bed ebmon’l eid ot awoad eepd 2 atlol bare Ji at deous : 
1) moulve Lo daupe n yw bee dois si olpatte saathve 320) Hroqe 9. a : 
bomesl sd tud .pabib od adver ; ud brarct oil wyelh annie 7 " 
eatlbba beeg sbam nevibene ooo adam ot Bebioel of iT 
gx) beviovs zulbbr snot zomsh4 enidyoH ois yninnigsd woitasqay 
sinds baradiny sl esto! yur bre eseword blo mort .2ailetv. bise sved Live 

iol yeael4 aniseoH od: ylwol@. aaoting: boners Hews bas pe a qh 
tis) Dodewd ebved pasbem sh bom-aishpias or imens eroddyina 


vinds sshetw slbbet e dou o9 sot aefar seoeds bere: giavol ohm 14690 eee 

at joed mort brad yd bacoident til—gaeT yorel4 anialgoH 9d a9gait oF | na i. 
asi a Jdguer—iiw t10q Jon icv ont seetf one a over F agnrue orl 1999%3 gat 3 

. nevibrue to luce ods, 2. 

yobos guinuborqy: «i bas 2iodarn aileiy lasek ot Jo dae ody barevonetb & 

evond od W load hevibe2 oF aan oye jerateent ble odds io esnor gaillindns 

.bormmain insvibmud ai ods 


J t 
me 
42AMdD AAVAM SITW ea#aauiOw , ug 


sow stedT | oyttery & bed yrudealet Hatghel senor B21 —re94 zidds o-4 
on-—-bevess ow atanb en wd) lle yl ee cow one boag & bose tages. 
in oopw eotbal boo, of T .bowswe tow bnew ese om bas ,bodom? se 
eqewls et. yusdeine detbien bie yo dei sere, an nm bas—somow pavey ove 
-gnidimee oo tren 


ee 


— 








riy ut bebritene enw worwlanW ole glitermy oy tned 2iare tid Do. 
UcomIQae ule boict gore tort bateles aitel rine sess @ to antonod vty 
hina cad Ue" 10 Irtonad odd onl seg a Bonemib bas—iedsd ae nl ek 
moi ¥/ alot! 1301 24 sldmonoHl sf” as muiel of bansio soir seins esis! 


~~ 





ole JA snegud ot! oi ope 16 ate nol caer of ody doawitD ol driw 
oh avey ole shi .issy C1 lo Latiey & wil yung ott 


nomiht jolt se dad? 


aieiniiel bare sal avd ttol bee ode-dliptilags ton 
xed aettoo bivew od. tede—b sile rrortve at 
wihw liad. “deed senos ron tlie oad to 


ye 
aarmow atti wee £ ied, glepoy oglt ene ‘mallee wort 


- al . ny 7 ar 


Sa lis b U lf Y—Continued 






LORE P ARNE 
UND RE 






Sgn tend : 


ayieg ; ca F a2 








Jail yard where Patty Cannon was buried 


PATTY CANNON 
— SLAVE TRADER — 


Character in “Entailed Hat” 


Comely in appearance and possessed of unusual strength, Patty Cannon was a well 
known figure on the Eastern Shore 100 years ago. The story of her life is a strange 
medley of pathos, humor, romance and tragedy. The place of her birth is not known, 
but it is thought that she was born on Canadian soil. 

Her father was the son of an English Lord who succumbed to the charms of a 
Gypsy woman, whom he married. This rash act so angered the Lordly father that he 
drove his wayward son from the palatial mansion, and forbade him ever to enter it again. 
Emigrating to the U. S. the scion of nobility and his Gypsy wife engaged in smuggiing, 
but were soon betrayed by one of their own number. Patty's father assassinated his spying 
friend, and was hanged for the act. 

The parental combination of Gypsy and royal blood throws an illuminating light 
upon the career of this extraordinary woman, who captivated nearly every man she met. 

Alonzo Cannon fell victim to her charms and married her. After their marriage 
the young couple built a house on the Delaware-Maryland Jine, a part of which: is 
still standing, not far from Federalsburg, Md. 

Patty enjoyed a reputation for making good men bad and bad men worse. The 
meagre record of her activities fully justifies the description. One of her chief pastimes 
was robbing the mail. This was a comparatively easy matter in the old stage coach 
days. As a counterfeiter of money she had no equals, but her safest and most profitable 
enterprise was stealing and selling slaves. 

She trained her henchmen to steal Negroes in Maryland and Delaware, and ship 
them to the slave markets of the south. The heart-breaking separation of mother and 
child, or husband and wife, was all in the days work; and yet, strange as it may seem, 
she was a devoted lover of children. 

The root of all Patty’s crimes was the love of money. She negotiated to sell her 
own granddaughter into slavery tor $500.00 but the plan became known and the girl 
fled to safety. Patty, enraged at the disappointment, called at the slave dealer's door 
and pretended to have the girl in her charge. As he opened the door and stepped for- 
ward into the darkness of the night, Patty thrust a huge horse pistol against his heart 
and pulled the trigger. 


Page One Hundred Twenty Nine 


pe cn remnacheis ani thanSnmee tirana tans casas ain unins Neeiadeintnsisestinatnansiitisaniasmenan nal 


a 


RE 
































ae ee 
¥ ee an | 


beitid sew comme Yet otadw briwe fal 


VOUMAD YTTAY ; 
— saan “The wey 


"tsH belintald® wi wore) 


lisw © aww toate) viet Anges nike Inveunw to besresez0q Bas vmetRagqa ni v TaD 
jamie s a: ol wd to yor ofT .oge eiesy 00 cond? wiened Sdy ab Sue | bes: 
a sworn jon 2 dinid 19d jo soalq oT (hago. bat. sontemo poured ore ; 2 
Jor agibenk) ne mod mw sila tad) te ai Ww 
& fo ertand>s oft of bodrnuwsaue oie load deilgad as io aoe ods eew aocdsed oH 
i weld soritat vibrowd ocls bersyne o Jae ani ad T bone od moldy .onrnow vey 
CeGe 2 YIiNs OS. 3979 LtIH luxhal bag jiternan or ad oon aoe: taewyow ef ae Ls 
yn gyume ai Loyegas ow veqy ent hod ghiden jo aokoneads 2 JU ods os gets jin 
aide id bowers ovlel ued oad me usds town yd beymeed moos « ye Ii 
is eee . 
gecennull on ewer) beald leg bop wav) lo meieridenad intaoreg : 
ohe ALA YIWVO ahr. bata “uqna othn hats Te tubaqeaxs aie) do 139189 
em: tol wots, 4d Lomem base emeidly wil ot miniv Io) aonasd ox Drie 
et thulw Yo tw 6 hall brilyuM-mewelt] wh ny sat @ Siud alquos 40 1" 
AM. yaudsliaha opt} A yx goibe 
wit = .omew nam bed bie bed aon boag yhidem: wil paiiesugyt & bayojna ary 
eoutsizng Wisin tot lo on Nargn seb ot earthen vila evviton id Yo | hie 


4 


GUO2 oyhke Lie 30) AL OEM Yee (evacapnos seowadl lic ons § 
wing feote bas Rates ied jud zlewpo On Dell Sie yomnen do yarisbesaues 6 2A 
ane youll bas ony th 3th 

yk boc wtwebkl bos bade of em loom of wed bona 
bee tater! to noomngs: gadkodteed, ott dior sete de Aen ovele 9 . 
ane (on Ji ee synewe Joy bas fhew = oy ai ile eu ai bee based 
? Se'Ssuul ak) sain, pomalip lie tase ae 

god tse oy basitoghi site “gantoun 1 eo est au + on, 
ig of? ban nwond senza auly oft tod OOL00R2 108 ney decathenu 


web ¢idush ovile od) se bolles Jcnningereib sly 1 we i ne 
100 bows bak yeob ods bynsqe od 24 ouinsda 19d as fyi ada yeed. on 
taal | vi maimye lutewy sector! qua & Yeoh ORT ody ‘ dyia oil Yi aie 








aul yinewT beabewH enO aged 


Sa lis b oh i Uj——-Centinued 


She was finally apprehended by the authorities, arrested and put in jail at George- 
town, Delaware where she was kept in chains. But Patty never came to trial. She was 
determined not to let the law take its course, and swallowed a poison which she had 
concealed beneath her clothes. The body was buried in the jail vard, but was dug up 
about twenty years ago. Some of the people in Georgetown claim to possess parts of her 


backbone; a gruesome relic of the past. 





OLD SCHOOL BAPTIST CHURCH 
ERECTED 1820 


No one ever sang a song about it: 

The charm and quiet of its sacred sod: 

Its plain brick walls and straight-bached 
benches; 

And over all the silent peace of God. 

About it lie the well worn streets; 

Where patient hands, now long at rest, 
have wrought, 

The shadows fall with soft caressing 
touch, 

And on the breeze a scent of pine is 
brought, 

Here are level graves with low white head- 
stones, 

Where wild birds sing and flowers bloom 
and nod; 

Here with hopes fulfilled, loved forms lie 
sleeping— 

Who sought and found the matchless 
peace of God. 


Adapted from the ‘‘Friend’s Meeting 
House at Pennsdale.’’ By Clarence L. 
Peasley. 


SILOAM BAKE 


Be Advised-—All Saints and Sinners— 

Let all who sleep, Awake, 

Send word to the Biscuit Eaters 

And those whoa love Good Cake— 

Ard cross young husbanas erying 

For Fies like mother-used-to-make, 

And everybody and all their foiks 

With a grouch and a bellyache— 

Take notice, please, tho the bank might 
break, 

The rivers run dry and the old Earth 
quake, 

Right here on Saturday, 

We ave holding a BAKE. 

Ten o'clock Sharp is the hour and the date, 

And remember folks, it is not a Wake, 

But Glory be—A great big BAKE. 

Things to Eat and things to Sell, 

Things to Eat and things to Smell 

You are invited—Now don’t be Late. 

But count your money and get it straight, 

Then drop in Saturday to the BAKE. 


The Siloam Bake, conducted by the Ladies of Siloam Church—near Salisbury, is a 
time-honored institution. In any emergency, pastor’s salary, or Church carpet, these de- 


vout women can be depended upon to hold a beke and raise the money. And the food, 
why say more? it 1s true Eastern Sho’ cooking. One taste, and you'll never miss a BAKE. 
Siloam Church is situated in that Fairyland of fertility—*Down on the Wicomico river.” 
- They are good people—regular East’rn Shoremen, and ye editor is proud of the fact that 
many of them are his friends. 





REALLY ANGRY 


He entered the newspaper office with a fury of gait and manner that suggested 
murder. 

He reached the ccunter and took a newspaper from an iiner pocket. 

“T was intensely shocked this morning to read in this wretched journal an intimation 
of my engegement,” he said. 

The clerk behind the counter looked at him with some concern. 

“T aim almost beside myself with rage,” the agitated man went on. “I cannot tell 
you how angry Tam. I am worried. My fancee is worried. [am dreadiully annoyed. 
My fiancee is dreadfully annoyed. We are all annoyed. Give me fitty copies of the 


paper.” 


Page One Hundred Thirty 


An Ate. om 


~~ 


ida doed off od} oeeslq solion giet 


Seb of! ban tyod od) of qrade Asolo'o asT 


RiP tr eee '9f file Yeuam woe Intuon Jen .bod Yo 


0%) 3s lish ai joy barn boxerr swsbhodiwe oly 
cow oi2 Inmet oF omco yovon vn se antes ai 34% pene PY 
bed oe doulw aeeiog ® bovrallow: fing eee 43% pet wel: 
qu gub exw tud ,brny hay ade as Irorresd ane hod of T ” 
19 40 @ Lay eroeoy of mith LvroMnot Ab stort ot to omoz oR 
Jiug ads Jo giler 
































AHMAD Wenne ; HOA THD 


—tiencia® bas asmie® ita- busivhé. off , 
wAnwA .qoeke ofw ite ta SH leeds 3008 bh guna 1970 
aos HM i ad! o§ prow baote®. . bom bov9se al To Jolop be 


— oP i } bowit r7ol od ead) hud he A: pant -~Iigter2z bn allaw told 
unig soasdend gewoy 2anto Bok 
Ahin-o}-bealroriom oil! alt we 500 Yo esaoq Jaolia off) tn 
edi) tied) la ban ~bo0edviseve Bak i#lestia mow ilow od? off 4191 Ty 
~ofonviled « bos dotowg a MW = .jaet Ja gool won .«bued jnelag @ 


Jdquorw 

saw uoiexsiao oe dtiw fal rwobade 
iste blo of? bas tbh sui eisvit ant 
. ang, #i eaig to Swone & SOseotd of} ‘ao 8 
tebinie!? oo s1ed iia or 
4AAM o aniblet oa We <beed sidw wol dite 297835. level 10 90 
oaaW tow #i 3] .avio)d tetinismiesy BA mould evowoR baa gala abiid — on 5 
SAAR wid taota A—od qr0lD t0@ 
Ne of excita! bes ted 0} agehtT ~§66ff eamtod Bevel .befifinl roger m7 
emt of aucids bas Jad of aneidT * 

Jo. of Prob wo4-—bollyni ova doe apeldoiem ef) banol bas ‘ids Py ao 


LA of) of eolbtate? at qorh gael? 


















antieo™% @hootre* ot smott DA 
1 cot? “4. "olebaaagt . oe 


s # .v2udeile? tmea—deodd’d ne Ohi Feo eothecd sett vd bert betwo ole moolid see i 

SU wh ixpes il) vo scl 2 TIRE] MONEYS VAG al nomrttenn b " 

eat alt hws yonom ts sim bane shade tiling of Herzl Lesbaraqol od neo romow 

AAEM ura vevon voy bee tect on) conte ‘ol? nyodensl ouweidi fers 
lave oonmon 4! ot ao awotl”—ypilitd te haba tedd ni hosnutie *t lbp 

furi) tat alt to bung et youle 2 bone fevers vod 2 ment ved 

#bnon) ei ma 





YAQVA YAIILASH 4 —— 
botwugur tut asetem bae tity to ye? B dite sifie TxyRqewon _ bowim 


odor wont th ond TA On © too bak vwinuey odds t 1 
Goinrnitn, mp leery Lado w 2i) at beer a1 gnimony aie blood yea 


tr9ne2 orice ire coil i bodool Whe nicks shes . rd 
toon T° oy ew nett Lorrie: at “ane dithw Yoagra: obusd pombe ; e. 


=? ~~ 


ah tiluiivewh mt) |banmtew eemeait wl, diinew endl ned agasewed 
ols Ww apes yin wht a2) eyonne The mu, S/ deyortha luther as “ 

SPALY ol i 139 
a 





or 


Continued 





Salisbury 


This poetical tribute to the popular Wicomico was submitted by a member of the 
traveling fraternity, who prefers to remain incog. Traveling men, it seems, always do 


the right thing. 
THE WICOMICO HOTEL 


Out all day in the cold— 
Facin’ the wind and rain, 

Workin’ for the wife and kiddies, 
Hungry to see ’em again. 


Hittin’ the pike since mornin’ 
Luggin’ a sample case, 
Seven salesmen on ahead— 
’ Seven more in the race. 


Night unrolls her curtain 
As soft as thistle down; 
And thru the mist is shinin’ 
The lights of a friendly town. 


Salisbury, good old Salisbury! 
And right around the block, 
Is the hotel Wicomico-—— 
The place for a man to stop. 





Good old Wicomico hotel 
Where a man can rest his feet, 
Where the coffee’s worth the drinkin’ 


And the food is good to eat. And I’m hopin’, fondly hopin’ 


For the sienal, “All is “well,” 
Some day—may it long be distant, 
I’ll travel—not by car— 


To a country new and strange 
To a distant land and far. TRAVELER. 


For Salisbury’s good hotel. 











OF PERFECT THINGS 


A poem is a hope 

Surging as the everlasting sweep of stars 
Across the sky; 

Singing not of things as they are now, 
But dreaming how they should be 

When the time we need them comes. 


It dreams of perfect trees that brush the sky, 

Of perfect birds that sing as others never sang, 

Of melodies that live in minds that cannot speak, 
Of shades that live in hearts that cannot paint; 

It dreams of love firm as thunder heard, 

Yet softly kept a dim remembered roll. 


A poem is the power 
Of perfect things to cluster in a breath, 
An image never caught 
- Until we starve aloud for beauty we had passed... 
And now it comes to star our span. 


IMOGENE CARUTHERS. 


Page One Hundred Thirty One 


3ut even there I’m goin’ to be homesick — 


ee 
. 

































otis to aedaoet oo yd batjiedue 2ew onleniW veluqog. oes of sin nygncnnsee oq xi L 

ob avewls arti th nem ynileeaT math : ON «| ' ae *" 
: i BLL 

\eghe v ie 


| “ or ‘so a .. i. ae 


« OMDMS bas ety ects 
_ ieee oe" ¢ 
simroin goat tla od 


: . Token 
i eet of? at 


sisiipo isd siloras oe 

awob sleds es Nomad 
“piaida al. Jel ond 

wot tibmelt? a lo atdeltes 


'yendeltad blo hoog ; 

adoald ed) havovs idaty 
—eotmoalW ts1od od 

qole od peut a 70) eon! 


a 
iesed eolmoolW blo the 

fee) wid 3491 Cao net a 

: ‘cideith of} dinow «sete add 

‘atqod vihwot “nlgod a’? BAA ; jaw 0} boog a! bool eff 






) ke 
jeeet ay, 
estate 42° 


‘“lIlow af ILA” leaele of? V4 a 
isteamod sd oa! ‘cios atl wert? weve 508 Jontelh ed gool i Yem-—pab ee 
: iod boos a ytedsiteR 14 —te. wd joa—lovad IF 

—SgtkTiz baa Woeu Vit 
RAIS VAR ml bos baal Jaetelh 


" 


ms 


q 





KOZ TMH AO 


eqod .«. et uvog A 
eins 10 Ge9We Stiteciiere of? ac. galqee A, nel 
‘tae af) anom2é ow 

wut ste ivi? Ae apaitiy to tom polgala 

al Bivona todt wod nnlawwwb intl 

aeiney mic? boon ow sunht ed) nodW 


«ie off! denuded? eee) po9lreq to 'anteoebd 3 - 
Biba even Wedie ee pave jad) wltid dostreq 10 
dacqe moves ted? Whine 4) ori 1609 eeibolemt 10 
Joloqg toma itt etwed of evil tedp-eobada IO... 
wbinet whew? ~. avid ato] Yo amagch 41. ~~ 
lot betademore: mob ws oq9t Unoe e¥ 


voawrong ott et = 
"diane Bt weteulis an Se eush aoaneneiie +? ; y 
iignad s%% 


oann 
.. bBeneoq bed ow vitteed wt wolfe aw ; A. 
tieya THO 16% OF ssi i won 


eve ® rare 
ANA NTIAA SKAOOIE! 


Continued 





Salisbury 


. SALISBURY IN “YE OLDEN TIMES” 
By LIN ALLEN of Connellsville, Pa., (a former Allen resident) 


When it had its big fire... And the hospital was at West Main and Fitzwater 
Streets .. . And the fire engine house was back of the jail... And there were red and 
green fancy bottles in drug store windows ... And the busses met all trains .. . And 
the City Limits were where the pavement met the sand... And a wooden Indian stood 
in front of tobacco stores . . . And the Saturday night fights at the old depot... And 
the Cranberry bog was in “California” ... And there were hitching posts on Main 
Street ... And the bar rooms with their sickening smell .. . And the gas lighted streets 
... And the Italian organ grinder and the monkey ... And Humphreys water mill and 
the beautiful pond... And well dressed men wearing ascot ties and walking sticks . 

. And awnings in front of every store... And there were only two police—one day and one 
night .. . And tonsorial parlors were barber shops and headquarters tor gossip ... And 
gasoline was only used to take the grease spots out of the Sunday suit and to hurry a 
hire along on a non-paying building ... And life size dummies stood in front of clothing 
stores, so natural that a “half stew’ often attempted to hold a conversation or obtain 
information from them . .. And, when a boy, 1 could go to town and buy a suit of 
clothes and get a baseball and bat, a neckue and a pair of “galluses” thrown in for good 


count . .. And it was easier to get in a poker game than it was to stay out... And 
there were no moving picture shows—no automobiles—no telephones—no electric lights— 
no garages—no radios—“All we knew was what we read in the papers” . . . And there 


were no BEAUTY PARLORS, our women folk were all “as is’—if they were pretty 
they were pretty and it they wernt, they wer’nt ... And there were no alarm clocks— 
you either stayed awake or trusted to luck . . . And memory takes us back to the 
original families who contributed liberally to making Salisbury what it 1s today, some 
of whom were The Grahams—the Whites—The Parsons—The Gordy’s—The Jacksons 
—The Humphreys—The Powells—The Toadvines—The Todds—The Tilghman’s—The 
Lecnards and many others. Many of whom are gone but not forgotten. 





MERRY CHRISTMAS 


Note: To the credit of the Eastern Shore’s fair daughters, bless their hearts! 
they all like poetry. And when what is more—when occasion requires they lightly 
dip their pens. in rainbow ink and write exquisite verse. W hen Christmas time 
arrived, Miss Hazel Elliott, President of the Business and Protessional W omen’s 
Club of Salisbury, decided to ignore the “Five and Ten’’ and send the members of 
her Club a Christmas greeting of her own composing. To show there is no hard 
teelings, it is reproduced here—with the editor’s thanks to Miss Plliott. 


Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas! 
I shall say it once again, 


For I want to send the best of 
thoughts to an old club friend. 


It’s been a joy to work with you 
and know you better and better. 


So may I send you one big wish, 
I’ll spell it letter by letter— 
M-E-R-R-Y C-H-R-I-S-T-M-A-S! 


HAZEL ELLIOTT 
Deco wei 3a- 


Page One Hundred Thirty Two 


hed . G24 101 eenerpbesd bas eqode yadied saa noley leinoenor bah wwe 










































“20MiT YIGso 3" WE 2. 
7 >a Ww LIA VLE Ya 
(sasbien asllA ron0b 6) £4 ee AALL N Wins 


inwsiil bas ninth zo ye cow lestmpod wilt bnA ws ii 
bar be sow sind) bnA .. . licj ods to died exw sevod —- ni } “3 
baA ... eniew Ue som pate al bak... ewobniw mow yutb poms 
Soo osibal msboow t DAA... linea ot fom roi ot a ond 
a . doqob blo only ae ely aigin yabruane ort bind. 5 ee 

6M op zeoq yrboil sow “ort HA, . - “savbliey” . 

Home bonigd sey ot bod. .« Home grinadoiz weds dirw Mae! prin ane 
bag thet satew eysidiqemld binA , +» yadaom sft bas wbeiny’ Tethpete 
... dotte yaidlew bow soit Joos ydigew mon: Loremb Mow boaA -. . ‘ 

bas ya ono—silog owt yloe sro snetlt bad... . on ars $0 Jad abe 


ee 


ze (nud of bog size yeboud oft io go eOge Secor ol) sAgr or boed doo 
quirtols to 2aui ni boo sincub ox atl boA . . . gniblind yaiyaq-fon & no y 
mistdo 1% Hodenyiicog & biod Oo basen sie nile wow ied g serli lense oe 
fo sive & Yud bas nwor ot og bivos 4 vod c aed bak.) . mort moda 
boog 10) a: awoul! “enulley™ io teq & baw sddven 6 Hal ‘ns Hudseod toy t 
bral . uO yale GO) 2nw hh medi sang wedog & Oi Joy @t 2286 2ew 1 ba a} 
eluil senses ¢ on tO itjaio? on—eslatormotas on—ewors suing Ynivom oa: 
noch boA tua odd tei best ow sede sew vroad ow Hedin o a 
yang now vols i— ei eo” Ne ow diel nome quo ZAOTAAG YTUASA ¢ 
whol anaes on now sel bal... aoe yodd Ja'vew yor i bas yieng oF 


ar 


ot 0) Aoed eu dei omen bok... dal a boxuw ww adews -boyete 3dt 
wie yoo! a 3 Jonw oudeduc yaar o1 yllewd:! betudinaes aw esilicnat t . 
engedonl oli —se yiwwd of) —eoomd sdl—aonlW sdt—emadmd) sd aw nodve: 3 
wT 2 nartidg (iT of l—ebboT 24 T—eontvbeol ad l—aliswotedT— 


ashegiot ton sud niOy 26 souly lo yeah athe yaem bas 





A 0CVATAI) “CITE 


areest tied) aasid #iptdgsah sia) soya weetend off Jo sibotw.ed) oT -oi6t) 
(lial qed erilivpst welenso nody-withn # jedw aeitlw bad. pesioog oifil it 
“et! ganttal “ cet «nev otiehfpre etew aoe dal wodalat nt ene 
a #omov/ om awe 14 Bue aeontenll en) Yo iwobhsensd Nola lezsh asilt 
le #tedinam off boot baw “ae beet ove" off etowst of beblagh werudatie® 
fie on e] sare wach. oT Seion nwn pou te aniioerg eamdaind? @ >” 

NollA eallZ of clued? SwONbe at) diw—-ared Seonbouwe af 3 


leesstziad g9eM ‘eammisd) yiel 
dtlage sooo fi wow Made 1 
lo tae ad? fune oft eorw TF ‘on ie j 
baehtY del bio us af a 
Ho, Mitw dew ©) vot 4 need BIL Wy a 
* aehed hag wited vet woud wey 

dabw gid eno vey base T (em o8 vane 
iil Wf widet H Htsqe tt 7 
Behe EBL t-H~D ¥-i-A-td-M 


TTOLIIM JGRAM 
TEGL .2L 90 





Continued 


Salisbury 
THE CHRISTMAS SPIRIT 


As set forth in this Christmas Will and Testament 


A prominent young attorney of the Eastern Shore believes in being original. Platitu- 
dinous Christmas cards weary him. He determined to evolve something different. In 
legal verbiage he conveyed to his friends at Christmas (1937) all the joys of the season 
to be equally divided under the terms of his will. This unique document is submitted 
for your perusal. 

What he has up his sleeve for 1938 is a matter of speculation among his friends. 
It may be a codicil to his Christmas Will, or he may issue to them a license to practice 
law—present them with divorce decrees—no alimony, or he may have the Sheriff serve 
them with a warrant for horse stealing. 


CHRISTMAS WILL and WISHES OF—— 
IN THE NAME OF CHRISTMAS; GREETINGS 


I, being of sound mind and disposing memory, do hereby make and publish this my 
Christmas WILL and TESTAMENT, in order, justly as I may, to distribute friendliness 
and good cheer among those who call me friend. 

FIRST: That part of my estate which is known among men and recognized in the 
sheep bound volumes of the law as my property, being inconsiderable and of doubtful 
worth, I make no account of in this my WILL and TESTAMENT. 

SECOND: Of the finer values of life, as hereinafter set forth, I now proceed to 
devise and bequeath, with equal proportions of my affection and esteem, to be justly 
divided in the spirit of PEACE ON EARTH GOOD WILL TO MEN. 

THIRD: I bequeath to you—my very good friend, Ere the sun sinks low and the 
day’s at end, 


Your equal share of those homely joys 
That stir the hearts of girls and boys. 


All the sweets of life it is ours to woo, 
In this my WILL—I give to you. 


Together with hope-——as your good friend, 
That happiness walk with you to the ena; 


A portion of faith—that too, I give, 
To quiet the heart and help you to live; 


And work that is honest I assign to you, 
In tasks that are hard—but nobly true; 





That Peace on earth to men good WILI- 
The message sent from Calyary’s hill— 
With love overflowing your heart to fill, 
I bequeath to you-—in this my WILL. 


As witness my hand and seal this twenty-fifth day of December, 1937 


(Seal) 


Page One Hundred Thirty Three 


Pre mt oianhinn thssegiatisdeticssnisahyoe 


. Ragese silt jo zeyor oe) Me (\ECL) geamendD me. eba 
























iasmee2T has HW apemteindD eidt ni dre ? 

‘wield = lsaiyno gaied ni esvsiled ade peter od) io ro ; , Mronimag | 

el ianoelb gnidtarnoe svlov> oF Loninamb <1 ne cae | . 
ad atl op 


arr 


banimndue a womusb supine 2d  ffive sid to ects alt rohne. baberib: leper 


oe) 


ebooni eid proms coivcluzoqe Yo valieth & 2 2601 il svoske aid qu eer on tei 

suis61q OF sevingil c mod? of Sueel yarn $f to JW epmzpdD md of liniboo, & J 

ovr lined@ ont oved yarn od 40 ,ytomile on-—exnasb snovil dite onsls | 
cymleor soed v0) insnew «dé 


—~10 24H bie 107 2ATeIHO 
2O.ITIITO 2AM TEIMD TO AMAM SAT Mt 


yen air) Metldur bar odem «dood ob wee grivogeib- bhe bain bauoe to or ri 
eestibnstl siudiveib ot yarn | ee yliemt aabso at. TAMA TOAD bnew die 32, 
sbeit) om liso odw ovods gnome s99to & 

wit wy besterpoosy base nom qnome nero 2 dowiv stn yen Yo neq sell TS: 
lutidueb io bne sidmabienonai’ unisd “nega yin ee wel oly Io 2omulev bawed ; 
TYAMAT@AT hae SAW ra zie ni Yo Ingovs on ate Dae 

ni besor woo 1 ,dno) tx riicnised mm lil to coulee wnt. sde IO :aAvoo 42 © 
(muy od @ .moors bos ooitelic. vie We eoimeqeg fuups cdibe aeons bne seiv 
VA OF JIIW (GOGO WTA 40 JDAS9 Yo shine oft ail 

sat ns wal sdeie Aue oth nd ,bosist buoy xisv yo-—goy oo dinouped | CATH 


. > 7 


i= 


#vol vlentot ernie Yo erate teens w00Y 
tod base elnip Ly atignd wii ata jedi? 


OW OF we af th) ob le aieowe aw) LA /@ 


= 


ony OF ovtg I~ 1007 aa aids nt i¢ 


© ait 
bush? hoiw ee ai ad dale yediogeT 
/dom oft 0! OOy Diiw alow reculgqged sadT 4 
a 
OVE T Ot poft-—dint to golmag A ot m= 
Ovi of wot Gh ban timed of) jainp oF i? 


Hoy OF Ilewe Piwetied #) 1d) tiow bad 
007) (on titt—-triad «in 9d) eden? al 


—LUIW bees gi of does ap Sone jadT 
int » yiavie® goal 1008 ogee edt 


“Mm oy gu04 fabwottere tol ay 
ALITY ‘Cah itt nto ag (inouped t vm 
VER! wedriest] Jo veh Afaeeora: vith jew ‘hno bred UM pont 2 r 
{ lmse)} . ;> = 
i) a 


Salisbury 


——Crontinued 


STATE TEACHERS COLLEGE AT SALISBURY 
J. D. BLACKWELL, President 


ica a a le ha ee 





= 8 =\ 


st 
A * Sie eA 8 > x a Pee! 
MAA LO iL SONS Ua A eae 





Rs = ge a Salisbury College, school of gracious beau- 
eee aii BS? ge ty, thy portals stand—-an open door 

es. ake at i a } Thru which we enter lives of deeper wis- 
Er alan dom, 
be a retest | Oh we shall love thy name for-ever-more.’ 
Reena Boao | | bias 
ay Bi ed | | =H MARGARET H, BLACK. 

Loe y. 





SENS fu 
bel ee 
7 veh, 
i a 
i 
: 


he 


ATS 
t 





Sass eS eee anes 


“And gleaming columns 
Radiant in the sun.”’ 


ALMA MATER 


Oh Alma Mater, standing wise and stately, 
We dedicate our song to Thee; 

A song of praise, a song of deep devotion, 
A song of love, and endless loyalty, 


Formally opened in September 1925 as one of the State’ s three normal schools for the 

training of teachers for the white elementary schools, the State Teachers College at 
Salisbury has steadily grown in physical plant, in curriculum offerings, and in service 
to the community and to the State. 

The present beautiful colonial structure was completed in 1932. The first appro- 
priation made possible only the completion cf the north wing in which the present 
College had its beginnings. The second, the central portion, the administrative unit 
including the auditorium which was dedicated by the late Senator Charles R. Disharoon 
in 1928, the third, the south wing including the social hall and dining room, now recog- 
nized for their architectural beauty and simplicity, and the spacious auditorium, one of 
the largest on the Shore. 

The curriculum has met chenges from time to tme demanded by Marvland’s educa- 
tional growth, and the College now cflers a four year curriculum leading to a B. S. 
degree in + eect 

Dr. J. D. Blackwell. a member of the State department of education in Maryland 
for twelve wes “Ras been President of the Eastern Shore College since 1935. 


Page One spurned Thirty Four 


Cletate hua osiw goibast 510 amtaA dO 


nolovsd qeeb lo gu6¢ 4 .selatq Jo gnome & . 
riiovol eeelhas bas .evol lo anon A 
-Viied ewolonrg to loonos .»aoiloD eiudeliad a 
toulb fead oé—hoare alroq ds vi ¥ . 
-atw veqesh Yo e6vil wine ew dsidw amt ra 

toh 

eTolm-teve-tol smiag ydi evol llade ow &0 x > 

AODAJIG .H TARAURAM Me 

Ti 

\ 4 
















WATAIM FIMATR 


somlT oF auce two elatihed OW 


eopreios galmcola baad” 
“cwe aff al tratbell 


oh wi «loose lores vorrd eater? ody Wo ofa ee FLO! tole! nt bonaqe vine 
yg2ilaD eodoeoT ores of) loose yuninomats srubw odt pol eae Yo gat 
vrem ot bane «eonslo mulusina? ni Sernley irateyeig mn so (ibpor end 
4 ato} bas yingmmod: 

omqe to of T — at benlqmoas sew stutter einubos hy tinesd lawng dT 
irnewuy oft douhw at uri thon off ls noeiqme oy ine aid izeogy sham noi 
fiw winewenionks olt .worned loa ath Aveurine wif 2yninaiysd an bed oye rer 
wormed) A eafeds) wines stef alt wd fretevibel eeu doi munonbue, at x tibyt: 
ROT Wall Oe nein bre Mee ae od onblalont a Mina duo only ebriddt ot BSL 
jo ono ,truhotivie Riser ATR ull beg vglesilegensis Law cugad pine yor vol &§ 


rawhe 2 barlywl, yd idieladil om) of srtvlt eriort eageinda. tom andl pcos oat , 
2 As ot goilesl mulosinum yew thol & asHo won ayalled arls bar 


bell! ot melee le usenet ote sbtdy radon o eeronlll i: Aa x ae 
CECT aonte syalinD s1od@ arvieed ort to snabiend ngad anh anesy ovlow 


a ae 


~ 


Salisbury——continued 


a THE GRIEF OF ISKRSEEL 
IN MEMORY OF ROBERT M. WHITE 


By a Fellow Student tu S. T.-C.; May 27, 1937 


Winged Israfel and his celestial choir, 

When first they heard this mournful mortal plaint, 
Of how an worthless one bright smiles did taint 
With death, were saddened, strumming slow their lyre. 
They did not find it needed te inquire 

Of tearful brother what had madé things so, 

For but to see them parted was enow. 

Sad countenance, sad melodies inspire. 

So Israfel, up where his like dc dwell, 

Is chanting still, to tell the heavenly throng 
That all with those below them is not well, 

And they by singing may abate this wrong, 
Though great it be. And then a glerious swell 


Floats down: the orbs themselves have joined the song. 


LAWRENCE FREENEY 
Class of 1939 


TO A CYNIC ee. 


I watched a star be 
In the deepening sky ; 
Watched it twinkle, af 
Watched it die. Py ie Se 
I watched a moth h s 
Fly near a flame, aru takes > a 
Flirting with death, re 3 : oie : 
As men do with fame. phe oes 5 ; 
I watched young loves, ys: -s, 5 seruntperpenyrence 
Turn quickly to hate, | rae 2 a es oes ee 
Watched lonely dreamers he faethe, ER Ment A ac ARNO lg Ach 3 
Find dreams—too late. £ ; 
I watched the world thru’ oe Ey =: a . 7 
a cynic’s eye, pene sii cat oa I PT f 
And I watched the soul of moe oes 
that cynic die. FNS ts 


EVELYN VINCENT. 





Shi Ls NANA ac WIV as LAI OE 


rt 
Fi 
* 
+ 
t 
j 
i 


Class of 1941. 


Page One Hundred Thirty Five 



























i> eat; SPAT utATe: 
aTINW Me TRABeA tw THOME “Er 


Teer tf eM 9.9 2 a Jaeber® wottet « y@ 


tele talisato> ‘old kak iglewal ae « Oka 
jaislq laiiog Inwiween aid: bieed qed) fark mak. 
inte) biS eeltase sdgind ono residinow an wod 1» Si 
ory! vist? wole goveutstie honshhas orew diese AW 
a a oveal of beboon t) bof ton bib wedT 
oe saad ohew bed yetw yedtord fulabs 10 
waee caw bering mod) son 0) sod OT 

vUgant ettholom bas uUnneiaves bae 

Howb ob sali ett evedw qa fotal of 

001d) Viaeveed adr itu: of Je galfande al 

Jivw lon at anod) woled sso? iw te jadT 

auctTw “ids eieds Yon gtlgnia wd qodd bad 

lowe evchiolg » med) bak od 4 Seog HapotT 

i102 ods buniol ovad eovionniagls obid adi :awob suc! 


git 0c Bi ae | SIASA WAST 
"C804 to seat 


OMxD A OT i 


wile aulusqooh oft a 
altaiwt J). hed: 


oie) ditew boo 
vol BNO 
ern oF 
omar viemal: 


' 216! 00)-—angtngth 
wae pee? ‘ % "whds bliow oy Anis 7 

. , Bey! <9 to noe ot bufolew i ba 

pa a ; odin ah eae 

' , a i _ tae yy 


TASOANL. wre 
alle! 808 80 aa 











here> 
X 9% 1 tx sa aa 
of ot ned ae patapy 
a idle 






r 7 


oil vivicfT bevbould orO aged oh, ; ) : - 7 


Sa lis b Ur Y—Continued 











ie EX é dance Coe Ree te 
Se se iat SOS soa pre ent 


gts oe yieey ena nor mB er rn ae A 4 
Beg: x5 7 OR fea os Pig > Ps 
ZA Pye 3 poate y ; 








Seine” esol 


we: 
fe 
ne 
P 


Ly 





TWIN LAKES 


Residence of J. Howard Johnson, Salisbury, Md. 


No other house is like it— 
And none could ever be, 


For a part of him who builded 
This cottage by the sea— 


Is somehow interwoven 
With the walls and roof and dome, 


And the soul of him is traced 
In this little house—called Home. 


Ah, but it’s a sturdy structure— 
And true in every part, 


Its graceful lines revealing 
The Master builder’s art. 


Page One Hundred Thirty Six 


Close by—a lazy river 
Winds slowly out to sea, 


Past a lake with lilies covered 
Where the wind is blowing free, 


From strong and rugged timbers— 
With brick and wood and _ stone, 


With skillful hand he fashioned 
A strong man’s house and home. 


No extra touch is needed 
But it lingers just the same, 


In the fireplace that sparkles, 
And a dog who knows his name. 


iW. CerTHURSTON 





A oe CL A EA A TT Pt ee LT Ae AS ee eR a 


i 


i 


; ; 
\' 
: 
“aig 
“ea 
4 a 
+4, Ma - _ ( 
hn ie ~«* iy 
= ="s Pree et 
? 


' 


f 


— 


1 FER 
- ‘ 
a 
4 


.. 
— 

. . 
— 


an 
eens 


Sy 

%. = ote 

= 7 ait... —?. 
. ip 

OES, =e 

- : - ~~ te 

a — oe ar aiy 

Be; 


bM  ourdeile2 noendol trove .| lo ssasbrodl 


tovly veal a—ved eagi> 
fon 0) Joo viwok analy 


beieves zallil diiw edal « teat 
sett uniwold 2] boiw al) ered 


rede) lbeonaut- base gaomwe aor 
oom boa boow ban don Ae 


bedntdes) of bred twilitde av7 
mod bee oacol “nam erota A 


beheoa ei dowo! eres Oo” 


stim ett deut ereaqall to we 


avidrege tet sontygorl «dt? ol 
ited “id wroad ofw, 906 B DHA 


YVOTaAUHT O .W 





21LAAL AIWT 




















—ti odlt st eavod iedte oF 
od ive bitos sno B 


hobliad odw aiid Yo si 
— pou och? vd ma! 

‘ 7 at) 
aovowysin: wodsite ? 

emob bas loot bra slew. . 


4-8 - 
heont) # mid lo tuoe od 
sacl balino—sered elt ahha 


—Migtouwe Ybwde we) ed, 

aq Teve aloud & 

ry Pj v a ak 6. 6. 

zalinover esall lujeoatg 
tie aMobiind rotent 





Continued 





Salisbury 


THAT LITTLE ROOM UNDER THE ROOF 


We two little brothers are just the same age, 
We sleep in the very same bed 

‘In a queer little room where the ceiling is low, 
And the plaster is cracked overhead. 


Sometimes in our dreams we hear voices that call, 
And sometimes we rudely awake; 

For the shutters are gone and the wind howls so loud 
That the windows all rattle and shake. 


We boys simply stop up our ears when it rains, 
It makes such a terrible noise, 

It bangs on the shingles and beats on the panes, 
And hours of our slumber destroys. 


Our room has no paper or paint on the walls; 
Our floor is as rough as a street; 

We have to be careful when walking around 
That splinters don’t get in our feet. 


Our closet is tiny and gloomy and low; 
Our clothes hang in one little line; 

I often come out with Ray’s clothes on my head, 
And Ray comes out covered with mine. 


In what kind of house is this queer little room, 
In winter so bitterly cold? 

It’s a cheap little house on a bleak little farm, 
And nearly a hundred years old. 


Our cousins came down from the city one day 
In a car with our rich Uncle Ned, 

When we showed him our room he just turned up his nose 
And gave a long whistle and said— 


“Your room is no good but for storing old junk,” 
But really, that isn’t the truth; 

It’s a queer little room, but a dear little room-— 
That little room under the roof. 


MABEL EUGENIA WALLER 
Salisbury, Md. 





A unique feature of Asbury Methodist Episcopal Church at Salisbury is the fact that 
it contains what is said to be the only Church memorial window in the world dedicated 
to a railroad company—the Pennsylvania system. 


Page One Hundred Thirty Seven 


EO AAA AANA NRO A ae A OCCA CE OU USS Natt ete a ae illite ats ts ine 
- Retetetincmiateieee 


~ 


nl 
niente aia aie 


4g 


soci $09 onl i viweleilee se dud’) lenerseint vebodiel4 wudeA to 
Letevtobh bhow ay ai wolniw Isroaet en, taudD vito alt od. on, 


FPAAIAW AIVSDIG JI9@AAM 
bM ertinilae 


> — i 7 







cn ; : . uv A : - ie 
Le ie Neate he oe oo ' oer be eet 
j 5 be 


wear 
hawt coS— F day 


soon ANT A4UKY Koon 
228 smtnn on) Sent va Eee a 


bod auiea yiov 2d) ot m 
Wl ai. gatlian ad? s19edw jroo oft aed ~ 
-Daod7a¥0 bedoa:7 at ySieaiq odd 
Hao sans avolo® raed ow ameetb 1H at eeniitormoa 
‘etewe YWebur ow- womnbeomoe baa 


buol oa alwod halw ad) bin -sa0y sre wrsiiude ont 10 
SAada One ofitest ta — od) int 

































cist nedw mad ino au qota elena axod oW | 
Salou eiditie2 « dove aedam 93 
‘n8T 68) ad slated bas eolgoide os 00 egnad i 
SOD Wdinele 1nd 6 BiwOd BAA 


law od! #6 tmlag 19 1oqeq of aed moo1 wO 
S998 4 ee Hanot ee 2 10On WO 
buvota galdiaw nedw [ote od of svat 6W 
J901 190 a tea l'cob ewetatiga jedT 


iwol bow Yoteot, bas yal) ab Joudlo wo 
sei! SI eco ol xeed eodlols 100 
Dor a ti no aedjoly eyes diiw suo omoo aefto I 
orlea dire fhewrves tuo esmtos eae bok 


foot wil tee att) et onved 1 babe jadwent - 
"hin yliertid oe wiatw al 

atvnl eli! deed «de ouvod oiif qoolo a ett 
bio z7e0% berbicud « Ufieen baA 


tab one ¢tio od) mow) uwob ents eniewoo wo 
ho sloaT Melis two dilw tao 2 ot 

seo ald qu bows tev ed itood 16 mid bewods sw oedW 
“bins hie olteliw 001 e eras bad | 


“don Blo actiaia do) 166d boos on el moor yay” 
ifn?) ot Pet ded) efiee p08 

vtioot AOI 9b « ied woo ltl weep A ae 
oot of? whee moor ofl yAT 


ree : as 


ee 
bige,2i anchy | 
odt-—yneqeney 







ine tineshannd 


1 


aw (oom = A 
; iyfd \ sie Satie a 





Sa lis b uU lr YU -——Continued 










: ae aR gg Sm iS RE og eg > aarp ef 
* eek 4 #4 
Peg paaey 
: *. A i 7 
: ; aa i 
a | 
eg 1. «Roa. 
‘ é | Weg 
¢ nae Ee 
: ‘ c \ £4 
ae See « { 
: 33) 
pete ae 
== =? ere 4 t ; 
“a ae a E 
“Bui: Me f 
{> re t 
4 : 


+, 
= 
* 


K 
i 
ea a 


ah, 
pron, 


aaa eee 
5 


ons ANE pb 
x ts. cence eects NeaetOO LAT AO ENS EARN SL A 
aeie SNR TATE 


REMARKS ON THE OLD JAIL 


Salisbury, suddenly afHicted with a building boom, erected a new jail—the latest 
thing in jails. It was rumored that $50.00 was paid to the first prisoner. Be that as it 
may, while the old landmark was being demolished many wept silently. 


THE PASSING OF THE OLD JAIL 


What memories cluster ’round it—-what nights of bitter tears; 
What tragedy of broken lives—shattered hopes and guilty fears; 


And who will mourn its passing, and who is here to weep? 
Aye, who would dig a grave for it—or one memento keep? 


In all its crowded sixty years what service did it render? 
Of that great host who came and went—did one go out with heart more tender? 


Where thousands came to meet their fate and feel the law’s hard fetter, 
Was there just one to say—“‘Its four walls made me better?” 


What high purpose did it serve-—what work did it do well? 
And those it harbored——did they turn to God, or keep the road to hell? 


W. C. THURSTON. 


Page One Hundred Thirty Eight 










I ee 









iff ey rs eT} fi 
; ee 





a tes 
aw Rl Bese 
SGiva eo oo, *e 5 














nN A TN 
f 
4 —* r= 2 
~~ _ 
a 
a aaad 


JIA] G10 AMT VO 2AuAMaA 


izoint slp——deey m & bomen faced ysvibalrerd 6 nie bros viffle ulaabbue ¥ 
y ines off Moen ton oh op ramet ene OU? roth baomes- enw Jf i 
‘imeie waow prom badeflenss vou! eww dheathasl blo odt's 


A124 G40 SH WO PVieee! aT 


sete! told Yo ertalg fete fino? retails eshoe 
wié0) “tious bee eed bevthdle—ar7ll ato Yo 


Tocew o cued al ow Dae .anlenug an mom Hie 
"geed ofoemem ono w-—i 10) 97e08 2 sib bioow 


tinhaws BODIb oolties tadw ema; ede Sebnen 
Trea svat Mh it pve Jue O@ atte bib- new baw omnmo of tao 


ores) bead evant of fat baw ec) viedo dee Ot oatas 
“*sosjed oan ebom slew yuo) oil"-tun auto. 


cHtow obi Gib How indwo-ovion WD Bib aid | 
"Ile of Dao ni qvet Ath) bop, ol moe voll hib—~heoded it on 


a 


AOTAAUNT O W 


Continued 





Salisbury 


at a 
, 7 
5 ‘ 
t 4 a 
ant ’ 
eH 
$3 
+ 
} 
+ 




























. 

kg QL ; ; wt 

tae 3 $ a ; 

eee ae Sica 

Ai pao He 3 

ts BS were OT Sal eee ; 

ep Ey eee Ce OA SH : 

aye’ 7} im | f 3} ra ‘ y 

ae Beers Bes 

4 ry i ae ae 4 Matin tee 

pl a Oo ea fj 

HS) ced eal lod I 

Bi 4 3 a i rf }} z —| a 

Fea ad ad oi a 

eset Ag 2 te ei 4 be a 

i ive ss eo 3 

a? pica, Ses mates y Ti ta ot 

fl dose ee OF 

f. ; 3 e { 2 i 

a au ai a ea 

Paced we Ss eet 4 i 4 
an ‘ pa Poe 

Maron 97 en ey ar . ; 
———— i oath 4 Spe ask abies ee TARO NCenteomeee 





A POEM IN BRICK & STONE 
(Malone & Williams, Architects) 


This new county building—en addition to the old Court House, built in 1874, is a 
work of art. Even the jail—on the third floor, modern in every particular, comes in 
for a word of praise. 


According to Wicomico countians, the structure is symbolic of the new Salisbury, the 
city that is to be. Built on the site of the old jail, it is linked with the past, but in 
beauty of design, simplicity of construction, and dignity of bearing it is the County Com- 
missioners’ poetical contribution to the “Eestern Shore In Song & Story.” 


There is beauty in brick and mortar; there is art in stone and marble. Building is a 
noble work. 


When our book is but scrap paper in the wastebasket of time, this building—de- 
signed by native sons of the Shore, will still be standing—-an enduring picture the 
architects have deftly etched upon the background of a beautiful city. 


Page One Hundred Thirty Nine 


tee 
=~ 










1 
: ; 
: 
a F . y ; a 
P y a? Y : 4 wy, Ag oe nittad neal 
A 
“ 
) ae 
10T?2 AQIS YA MIOT A 
/ f - 1 S/ + } 
isd hy ae pee 
¥ : : % maori "2912 jinael vinuo? wit sid T shoe a 
m® esmon ,rluoined ‘2 at ate! et hairtt och inj oft} eovd ne to tow” 


-szie1q Jo now «10 

wy wi rte n orl) lo :ilockeye a: onerpenete cet annuinun onal os gnitmowA: © 
1 wll Artin | ‘int blo oie WS 34 tt no Sod .od a: st Jedd Vin 

7 j q ‘7 ’ x’ { yy b, bur PM aisiseiii : rot i ! 

¢) ) contd 21 Hi 3 thy tena, aot noo to. ytoilgenia aryieeb to ued 


al ovwlé «med ol) m conedonnos Isvise0g ‘anole | 


7 
1 Lf : 
4 if a ir rr & Mol ' 


nh aah penom bine dnd oi ened ai oidT ». 
A  dhow tom 
b--naiblwd cd: ait lo fodeedovew edi oi. xeqen qe sod «i dood ane aed >| 
ws sow, yrowbas os-—yoibaer od tite Hiw .sworl? ofp Yo ante svittn ed bongie 
MID lutivesd « to bran sad oft ig bedut litob vend a1a0t ir & 
, A 4 


7 





Continued 


Salisbury 


OLD GREEN HILL CHURCH 
(St. Bartholomew’s) 


Old Green Hill Church, a dozen miles down the river from Salisbury, was the 
Parish Church of one of the 30 parishes established by an act of the Maryland Assembly in 
1692. The Church is known today as St. Bartholomew's, this particular designation 


dating back about twenty five years, when an annual observance of St. Bartholomew’s 
Day, Aug. 24th, was instituted. 


The Church derived its name from “Greene Hill Towne,” which was laid out on the 
banks of the Wicomico where the Church now stands. The building is located only a few 
yards from the river which formerly was the chief avenue of approach; parishioners 
sailing to Church and tying their boats at the wharf. 


A feature which sets olé Green Hill apart is the fact that it has carefully preserved 
thru the vicissitudes of 200 years, the original high backed boxed pews. Each pew is 
rectangular in shape, having seats on three sides. A canopy or sounding board which 


projected the voice of the Cleric in Colonial days is still intact and performs the same 
service. 


Built of brick with eighteen inch walls, this historic old edifice, after two centuries, 
is still in an excellent state of preservation. Inlaid in the rear wall with bricks of a 
different color, is the date of its erection—1773. 


In the Churchyard a number of graves are hidden by pine needles and vines, and 
only a few small stones are visible. Several large pine trees, appearing as old as the 
Church itself, stand guard over the building and its graves. 


Not far from the Church is the birthplace of Samuel Chase, one of the signers of 
the Declaration of Independence, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Maryland, and 
later Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the U. S. 


Situated in a beautiful grove, one has only to visit this historic spot to realize the 
existence of tangible links in brick and stone with the hardy spirits of the past. 


The tombstone of a Capt. John Parker bears the following epitaph: 


“This world is a city full of crooked streets, 
Death is a market place where all men meet; 

If life was merchandise that men could buy 

Then the rich would ever live and the poor die.” 





MISS SALISBURY : A flashing glance 
From orbs of brown; 
This is Miss Salisbury Deep wells of truth-— 
Of Salisbury town; Where never a frown 
A demure little maiden Mars the beauty 
With eyes cast down— And perfect grace 
Peeping shyly between Of the woman’s soul 
Long lashes that veil, In a lovely face. 
Like a shadowy screen— 
The sparkle and mirth We Ge THURSTON: 


Of sweet sixteen. 


Page One Hundred Forty 


ek. bet 0 men No Me Tol ek 


ee a aeeeneenael anes 


moon. #, 


a ee 


















ot enw \udsile2? mot wv oe awob ike aaseb. «ened Ae 
ni vides. bootie: sf lo ng on yd badetlderes eadeneg to on0 
nonergieals rele riety at 2 -wanolodedl 22 ‘os vebos pees “donadd 
ewomeledncll 12 lo snevieedo lapang at oarchw aon ova wwoda 
aa 


stl? no ave bie! 2ew doidw “sawo'T Ti sand” ciate Ai havinel in 

wa « vino beso! 2 eniblivd af T heres vron darodD ott adver ont ‘mahi 

aonoidaney giyomqys lo anvve Tol ort cow vhannot Abide wy ier 
hed od) uw otcod ved gai bee donde 


bovisest viliristcs eed wo ted? moet sft zi neoe 1H And blo ate Asides 
zt wrod doa a reraq be sod bodved Agui leninire orl) #UEIY oot lo » : ' a2 
fouta toed onibauce 10 yqoom A yesh oth no aiiese anivest per ni aT b 
nee od) arsnetieg bre Jogi Nie at eysh leiewloD ai sink ott Yo sroy ocly 


j ra 


ih: 
15039 @w1 otle .sortibe blo siostl aids flew dyni opsidyis sdiw abad i 


& 30 adond diow Haw rex stip i bitlel .cuderisey fo srnse paireemite 
: AV | nortven ei to steboods 2i sxe mh 


hes 2oniv bor 2lbead onin vd asbbid se eyo bo mdiewn t lnevdoue in to 
wit an bla re yanesqqy aos onig ayel fesse aldieiv ox somone | fee 1 
eaverg 2h bak gniblied ot 29v0 bisug bose Jee 


Wn morryie of) lo ono ,serd]) bum? We sellnid ody Avy) silt ere? 
baa ,basiyir to nue onmnqué off te simu! ist) .sonshinsqsbal to aos y 
& MS att to nad seaequ2 ods tO witen] smite 





















of} ssilast of soqe siomid zidt meiv os yine eed ono .ovorm Idituesd & at bs use 
tem orl: lo aituice yb wed sdvvitiw one baa doind oi etal okdignas to 23m: 


vhysiee umeediol oft aed rhe adel 4qe) 6 to ceotdmot 


eels headed to tient lo « ab binow ald?’ 
Jeon oon Ie wredw svily tocana 6 al 
“it blue» aem td) sei bower gew Gl TI 
“9ib 100q of} bow evil weva bluew dott edt nedT 





sonalg aalideeh A TAINALIAA 
iawow Yo wdio mova nu y 
——vtint! Jo allew qed vrudailue eal al 
avo'l » teven eotW + awot 


Cunod of! esol asblaw 
ooes—3 fositeq haA —fwhb teas 
soe a tomtow of) 1 

poet ylevol « al 


AOTAR INT 3 OW 





Sa lis b Uu lr Uj ——Continues 


THE PRICELESS INGREDIENT 


In writing of the Eastern Shore one is tempted to begin with Salisbury, that miniature 
Metropolis, which holds so much of hunian interest—so much that is heart-warming, and 
so much that is fine and true. 


Three centuries have passed since the white man first set foot upon these Shores. The 
intervening years were filled with all the hardships and heroism that falls to the lot of the 
pioneer. But the dominant spirit of the early settlers was not deterred by difficulties. 
Theirs was a new spirit and a new visiou. Their perspective was broad as the horizon of 
the new land upon which they had settied. 


America was fast becoming a haven of refuge for the oppressed of ail lands, and the 
act of religious toleration, first promulgated here, was as a beacon light in the darkness of 
persecution. To all the right hand of fellowship was extended, and that friendly gesture 
prevails to this day. 


We, of foreign extraction, born and bred in America, are loyal—even unto death, 
to the stars and stripes; we are Americans first. But, like a father’s love for his favorite 
child, there is in our hearts an abiding affection for the Shore, a real love for its people, 
and a deep appreciation of the friendships we have made. 


Those who have traveled far and wide boldly assert that there is no place like the 
Eastern Shore in all this broad land. To the new-comer—to the visitor, there appears 
to be an invisible something that bids him welcome—that takes him by the hand as a 
friend and brother, and freely shares with him a crust or a feast. Call it atmosphere 
if you will; call it whatever you like, but it is here. Is it any wonder then, that men love 


the Eastern Shore? 
NATHAN CHERRY, Salisbury. 





Church of our fathers, Wicomico, 
Oh dream of beauty and art; 

To the glory of God you were builded, 
To the service of Him set apart. 


BEAUTIFUL WICOMICO 
Dedicated to 
Wicomico Presbyterian Church 


Oh Church of my heart, Wicomico, 
Nob_y fashioned and true; 
Faith whispers the sweet assurance— 


God speaks to His people through you. 


Sercne in thy beauty, Wicomico, 
Under the arching sky; 

As a light in the window thou art, 
Where the race of men go by. 


Strong are thy walls, Wicomico, 
To shut out all sorrow and sin; 
Wide are thy doors, Wicomico, 
To open and let love 1h 0p 


Peace is thy mission, Wicomico, 
With charity that covers all sin; 
The banner of the cross thy standard, 
The heart of the world to win. 


Oh stately and beautiful Wicomico, 
Deep rooted in the womb of the sod; 
Long may you stand as a symbol of love, 
To draw men closer to God. 


Wel  LHORS DON: 
Salisbury, Md., May 1928. 


Page One Hundred Forty One 


tt ee tact tnt Seance ht ta htt aa St lan asi shea ne 
Re 


——— 
——— 
ee 


a — 


ee 































bountne— AQ sdet ay isd 
24ND a wm. 
TATA eA eT 


muncroien teh pucaile? dire niyod os banger ai ono ode avspan’ bx 
bas .ouinen esd a nds poum oo Band ia, doesn eee 


3!T 2x? seokt noqu toot I5¢ writ anh Sirlw ot sani are av 
tld to So! oes op alled ance onziorort bnew enidetiricd och (le dtiw we ye 


exdiuorttily yd tursteb yon exw eroittngi elses ols ie siaige Jasnienab, ads. A Yoon 
lo aoxnod ott as heimnd 2ew mina tianT noir won « bas tiniqa won a ® 


rm a shoitrae, had yods doidw moqu baal 44 
ods bar 2bnel fin lo boesrqqo od7 10) Salfin 1 advad' se per weed ahw 8: 
0 eondrab od3 ni slyil gozesd © ee exve ened Lowyte tout novels euoiy 
vunroy Vileort tod bes bobowx> amwugidewolls) in bard idyir oly Ue hes 


veh aids of 


Hesh ome ast tnyal me orm gt Gerd Lice mod ,nditsenzs ngistol to By a 
Anorct aul wi wv apg 6 odd ud otra aneanomsA a6 ow oqnie bane rete 9 « 

yuo 2 wl veel | 1 8 voilé of) x6) polly pribsle na ened we mi ‘ak aonly 1uN 

Shera saved ow eqiriebasinh ot lo noitenegqe.qaob | bam 

oly odil a0 Kt om 2: onary yesh morew ¢ihded shiw hae wd bolsve Sved ode an “2 
Teo: are Rte wiasy of) O)—-190O9 von wi oT bal brood eiads ife mu mode or 


5 et han oe yet oid 2ode) Jevt—oenegiowe apeisl 2bid sachs usidemoe sidizivni ae-sdyay 
qeomas 1 Uk el 6 1 wet 6 cd diy enor: gond bas coho bas. basta 
co, Wa) jel art wbaow yoe a el seed af nD dud ail aay rovaindw ti Mu jllive 


Soong m 
quduee CAADHD VAHTAM 


———_—— teenie oem 


Otmol WT .rediel spa te aneddD OOMAOOTY AJQITUARS. 
ie Thee Yodo Ya Weed dQ oi 
{ fi af pie vi eiay (peuat bai \ hols wit oT bplezibess 
ieqn tov a Jo oolvioe off of dosuit> pamnaetehe s: a 
ovine VW ,coleadar elt al = YP teeta fa can tas 30 
tik Ile eseves tad) Yilions dr 
ihakie wt scons od! 16 Tenbed atT ~—T SUSTURER JOSWS GUS eToqnlw. 


aivw oF ariow adj io senpad oT Fiend dyporms ofgeog wilt ar 
oslatgat, 
ovmnonW? lothuned bak vbataie a0 our 3 nes aren 


(bore oil) le dinow all og) b4etairn qos 
rol ly fodniye 6 oa Mg ioe, ewe Smet - 
bu) OF (eeR fon watb OT 


YOTAHUNT °° aw 
2i¢L walk bh .vowdalisg 








ieee é 


a0 ye? borhnuH onO sp04 


Sa lis b u ft Y—Continued 


, “YOU SHOULD VISIT SALISBURY” 
(Courtesy of Coastal Topics) 


Salisbury—a typical modern city with all the glitter and gloss of a gay Metropous, 
has many interesting features that will commend it to the average visitor. Geographically 
situated in the center of a “Pleasant Peninsula,” it is usually referred to as the “Hub” of 
the Shore. The diversified highways leading out of the city in every direction, fully 
justifies the use of the term. 

Many of these delightful roads were Indian trails—cow paths, and circuitous routes 
that followed the steps of the primeval calf. Today they are white ribbon avenues of 
travel—“the road to home,” and the open sesame to many romantic spots. 

To the sight-seer, the Eastern Shore (pronounced Sho’) is an enchanted land. 
Historical places abound. Ancient Churches and old homes, with boxwood gardens and 
venerable trees, are nestled here and there—serene in their quiet setting; apparently 
immune to the touch of time. 


Originally an English settlement, the city was named for Salisbury, England, and ~ 


many old English customs still prevail. A number of the old Churches—especially those 
of the Presbyterian and Episcopal faith, proudly displey carefully preserved relics of 
Colonial days; gifts trom the mother country. Among these may be noted Altar Cloths, 
Baptismal Fonts, and huge Bibles. The object of tender solicitude on the part of the 
communicants, these ivy covered structures of the long ago still serve as places of worship. 

Nearly all the numerous waterways of the Eastern Shore bear Indian names. 
“Wicomico” meaning a place of houses. When the white settlers came the friendly 
Indians retreated farther and farther into the forest, leaving their quaint and musical 
nomenclature to become the property of the pale face. 

Salisbury—the largest town on the Peninsula—south of Wilmington, takes itself 
seriously, but its people are the soul of hospitality and friendly in the extreme. It is not 
unusual in the city, if a stranger inquires the way to some place, for the native Salisburian 
to reply; “Our streets are so confusing, and cut on the bias that you would never find it, 
get in my car and [ll take you around there.” 

One amazed New Yorker—having been treated to this remarkable exhibiticn of 
native hospitality, exclaimed, “I have long heard of southern hospitality, but this is the 
genuine article.” And yet this happened in a hustling modern city of 15,000 people 
who are wont to boast that its natural growth is pushing back the city limits several feet 
daily. 

Keenly interested in everything pertaining to the commercial development of the 
municipality, and receptive to any move that makes for progress, the townspeople have 
never lost their simple democratic ways, and what is more to be admired, their inherent 
friendliness, their cordiality and courtesy to the stranger. 

Within the city limits, Salisbury has little of historic interest to offer. Granted a 
provincial charter the same year George Washington was born, there 1s no record extant 
that the father of his country ever set foot in Wicomico county, or spent a night in 
Salisbury. ‘That in itself is a distinguishing feature of the proud little city, and delight 
fully refreshing because ot the preponderance of those pride-stricken burgs where George 
Washington slept all over the place. 

Salisbury is ultra modern and thoroughly sophisticated. Yet with all its sophistica- 
tion, its metropolitan atmosphere, and splendid hotel, while it hes frequently taken the 
man from the country, it has never been able to take the country out of the man; all of 
which adds to its natural charm, and makes it one of the friendliest and most desirable 


spots on earth. 





Page One Hundred Forty Two 


. 


nowdot ult Joinbe of of sree 2) sede: ban seven seroma) peeve 1 


osteehtnI——AG 1S 
ni’ se) 



































(tiga lates Nv yeaa) 


anogousl( yeg 2 te ake bas vanily adi Me hire yoo 1 Imiqa 
vlxsiriqetyov®) rotkiv symeove oddon at Leona. [iw taf, cnuteal Znite: 
to “dulf® odz 28 09 bers yilewme ai ft” cluaninel taczeolT” 6. 2 alan 9 
‘ut .noimetib eve ni qin at to me ynibesl eyewdgid f 
eee 


sium sovinotis bac eden Weeseliow nuihel sw 2beot TiAstpilb oesdi de’ 
jo wuusve Ooddh sulw oe yt gsboT Ales lavamngeod) do eqete orl be 
vioge wineno Yat 09 sone noqe alphas “med bean 
bocl barmardons aa ei God2 bepawanow) none arstecd ods ‘ 
hoe anobrep becwxod div 2omed blo bus rortnwdD ininnk .bnwods 
yUomeqge ;yquI. Ip 1iod? al sHarse-—srory bas sod bolteon stn 
Setit Yo’ hier ah 
bae entyed snudedee wl bomen eew ris oc) tosraslinse “detlgndl na ¥ 
ors yileieqes—eordD blo oft 3 wdmwe A lever Mie emori deiiyt 
io esile bevisesr: viluime>d (leah vYibumgq kt lixyonenga bas osizo! 1e Te 
Ato) mils Loon od yom send gromA otaue: readied orl) amon eslig. So 
oft le moy ort no shusnilor ishkas lo Deoplo ofl 2clditl opud bas winets 
«rile # 40 29 alg en drioe Mime ge wl ora lo emutowir boise Pea sear nes aym 
zomen asilal ised mod@ aviged oft to evewisiew avoromen sd a, Aes 
ylbnant st omes erie sistw oft nol = .2nned 10 oalq a yninesnr 
lnovuen bao inieup ied) yoivesl seat ed: om todd bac tsdnel borestt 
srwd sor ont to enaqee odd smored oF ott 
tices cond .rotgeumli7/ lo divoe—-tlueanussl sft fo wo roar 
ton ai Ho .certes oi os YLaedtl Bag yilletijeod lo luoa Sei ote aiqoxy est ude ‘ 
arusleing oviten od} yol song see G8 Yew 4rh eTepat Taye tr vats Sele g 
at bar wen bivew vor recht aad edit Ag Pry bone enol o Ne eos wO” x 
“nolt hnwow voy odes 11 bas 1 ¥ “a 
elirixa oblachenmn eis of Bote cowl gairud—iaahol wa, boxams. 9 
; ait tu .wilenqeoed oeduew te biee! gaol sved TP .homighss wile 
moog OOO jo yin omban paid «i Lisnsewanal zi) tov bal. “bing s 
root leravee etenril gio ods dood gaidewd a drvoty lowissi ei sactlt rewod 0) 00" 


tg 


rey 


oh lo monryolovsh leis oh at yamiensy, gotieneve a bss 
( slyowperaror ont 2evmgonq vot esdem tad vem aime oF oviiquost bas 


ooyae od) ot venues bas. cilsitnes 
, bane) asic os seated snomid ev Sigil att neilee ationil gion 
jn own on a nods snod enw molgentheni/ ayrgau) 7694 orine och) > 
ni rigin © insye ro. “wos oonmoor Hig tye) tse 199 Lig te of a 
1dyflsb bre om obi Li sii to nuitest powleugeie «eh ioe ai K 
IW SW. aA ved) m™ Ayre dig owed Lo~ssani soliienpon fe rete ne ines 

vaulq gli xove the ae 

eriviiqa: at He diva 19% lyaaitidgoe yl gomeds bac av, ® ea ai 
ol? nodes Yleoupat esd a offi (ited bibtolye baw yor 
to tie seiner orl? to Ie yaletes odd odes oF aide nod Soyom were panna 
sidmesl tem Las sevilbavnt oft to sna i eodom bas sosetls tauren 2s 







vot 
oat aon 


~ 





4 
4 


ive UA’ alt a. 


Sa lis b Ul LY -——Continued 


What it lacks in the way of historic shrmes is amply made up for by the Shore as a 
whole. With headquarters in Salisbury, the devotee of haunted houses, the lover of 
beauty, the artist, and all others can make short excurswas into tne delightful countryside, 
and leave behind the cares that infest the dav. To enumerate them here would require 
more space than is available. The proper mode of procedure would be to settle down at 
the Wicomico hotel, get a souvenir booklet cf the Shere, and after a good East’rn Sho’ 
breakfast proceed to ramble. 

If one likes the water, Ocean City is only thirty miles away. Historic Princess Anne 
is fifteen miles down the road. The George Washington hotel-—where they ‘sure feed 
you,” is rich in priceless relics of a glorious past. A stranger motoring thru the Shore, 
inquired of one of the colored heip the age of the town? “Man, sir,” he replied, “Princess 
Anne is older than history.” Just below Princess Anne is Pocomoke City—where the 
river has no bottom. Whether that be true or not, the Pecomoke is known as a “Man 
hater,” and its waters are dark and troubled—as if they guarded some awful secret. 

But the A. B. C. of the Shore’s attractions are yet untouched. Indian legends—war- 
time stories, and the folklore found in quaint little villages—half hidden from the main 
highway, invite the inquisitive traveler to stop and rest his soul. 


Tiring of the day’s rcutine, he may turn the nose of his Ford—or Packard toward 
Salisbury or Ocean City, and dispert himself on the smooth turf of the Golf Course. 

In the cool of the evening he may drive to Crisfield and back after dinner. Crisfield 
does not admit of any extended description; it is just different. Main street is built of 
oyster shells, and it is the largest seafood center in the world. It has a “Terrapin tarm,” 
which heads the list of many quaint and curious things. 

One need not be lonesome on the Ezstern Shore. When the sight-seeing is over— 
“when day is done and darkness falls from the wings of night,” be of good cheer. No 
one ever died on the Eastern Shore from ennui. There is always a dance—a speaking, 
a lecture, a meeting. or something else just as good. Strange to say, there is still the 
old-time prayermeeting on Wednesday evenings; strangers are cordially invited. Going 
from the sublime to the ridiculous—there have been whispers—very faint, that a crap 
game could be found around the corner. Doubtless it is untrue. rae 

Books could be written, in fact one has already been compiled by the former Editor 
of the Salisbury Times, Charles J. Truitt, telling all about Salisbury. It is a very inter- 
esting book, and the visitor to the city may buy or borrow it—just as he prefers. 

The guest is always right in Salisbury—even against the parking laws. Any membe1 





of the courteous Police force waves his hand with a “go ahead,” “thanks,” calls out the 
traveler, and the incident is closed. : . 

There isn’t any sign on the outskirts of the city, extending the usual welcome. 
Salisbury doesn’t take very favorably to signs. The tourist or traveler finds his welcome 
when he arrives at the hotel. But there is no gushing display of company manners; 
just made comfortable, end incidentally, made to feel at home 





guests are not fussed over 
~ which every traveler knows is the acme of comtort. . 
Salisbury modestly claims to have all the Virtues, and a few otf the vices. Some ot the 
virtues are slightly shelf-worn, and a few of the vices have lost their potency; but take it 
all in all, there is an indefinable charm about the place—an intangible something that is 
felt rather than seen. As much as the word has been abused—Salisbury has an atmos- 
phere; a certain elusive something not found elsewhere. $s. ee 
She is industrially minded, but the hum of commerce 1s not the pad we me 
sought to portray. There is another side to this picturesque little city: Tesetved for thew 
homely virtues of everyday living. The friendly side, the kindly side, 
Go and see for yourself; meet these sons and 





who appreciate the . 
the sentimental and the neighberly side. Gc and 
sters of the Shore—descendants of the first settlers in Maryland. Hunt tor antiques 
hosts in some old house built betore the revolution; you will find both. 


W. C. THURSTON 
Reprinted by permission, From Costal Topics, Charleston, S. C- 


daugl 
and listen tor g 


Page One Hundred Forty Three 


anwar brestoe® 4 





. | hasnt 
6 26 nodé adi vd 10) qu abues pfigecth kina ae 
lo isv0l sets aoe Lunesd to — . “9 
Sbeqavestutidgiles sat oxi eno na . PISO He boa 
i vie bluoov ti ol sown 6T ial) oi | ' ; ld ene am 
2 awob alice a sl bluew subsoag Jo shoea teqany iT joldehern . 
‘ode met Looy s rin ban od? ods ty tobdond vingvuge i p dozier 


oe 
vain’, eaonnd snoriH .yvnwe elie vividly vine > vid arnO stew sip ead 900 Th 
bow) awe" york st5thw—-lotod aomnidesW sya oAT be odio: wh 
cto? “arly revit ynhorom tyrew. A URE etonola © lo zilsy x5 a » a 
enn” ,hoilqat od “vie eh” Snwor sd Ye gue ort qisd bolus gt Yo ; ‘Yo tianit pa 
x s19tw—ri> somand 2 sank es wivT volo see] “wrod andy rsblo i ote 
as” £ ae owosst a sdomuneT oft Youds sn 2d snd rorlrod VF notiod on od wy. 
Inve lulwe hebinuy yor? tt eboiived bie sheh oe edie oi bag” 1908 
isw—-ebasnsl atin! odo a 19” sam anoles 2's1ed2 sty Io WO ALK ont ty hy 
nam ods mort mobbed ttnd—eogeliry abseil anise at bnwel srebilel ont bag zone oni 
wor eit len bos game os xloven suRinpant offs sivnt owns 


ul to 3200 se teu) ver od satu evth ort Jo gani be 



















































Tt) fo qr oe 
oO lic t 


3210.) 114) ait Jo hat sheerme oh Veet norvily ine (19 ne20 1 yudeital 
leten’) nib i. bisttast? a aviv vor od eninovs oft Yo loos ail at ; 
; tt 1971 ald, inh Jeuy ao jaatiqnoesh bebesiys yne i tia ton ab 
nist” so how ork oi saieee bewlese woudl sdrel i bak 2llsrie tomys 
aril worire fue reine p yom lo teil ons eheorl vith 
13¥0 ale ae nt fle mista. 4 oh no arncenuel se ten tesa on) ; 
Vv wis. boay to, ad", eyo ofp (ies! elict senmbtb bas se0b a yob node 
ls anb 2 avovle iT Jets nent node ose ods no bil 197s 3H 
wl> ‘line ei 1) .voe al ooy 46 Meir vel vridttortie Base Rg, Hol « 
tive) i) ylleibre ure epainays anbe WW ne yattooensyng vid-ble 
wha “y eulusibn ort oF omildije ody mont 
Wy t 4 iA | ; no wi) baworm bagol od blyvea mney 
oo 190d vinemip ard .ono het a nnw al blues edoofl 
2 juede Ue yaillos sterl | ahead) som? qudeiln2 ak Ye 
werd’ ofl ce ftrui t ri! 40 vu) cin Pie of? a ronmery sls bas dood oi 7 
ds ence tee —Hrelod wm slyly eqewle rouwy WIT © 
a “hanes” Oy” & lity Dead ei even gna) soiled eosin. sap io 
Jneols at taobront aes hon. Astoveg 
) Ta antieio adi nomi’ yee frei dedT < 
wnerisy et ebet Dlevew vo ttuod oT aephe oF villeoved veer sales "nesob yrudeites 
rene b) yauiewg on et yest sett epad ol} 1e esvinig oq’ uly 
5 so] nm vintebeo: base »idenivees aban tur——¥970 baezu? OM STG ROU 
Notenas Io-onrn ats ct ewond qwlveas yisvs / 
x9 bo what. 20 wit hos wuniy ole oven of emials yinstion nudes? ” 
n oe) wh) pyoetod wed wo! a exo st le oral « bers, sie Abort thitgile oe 2 ia 
wd Bototre ated itt Wu mby od) inods: Mics AdenAobni “6 “ ad? Me oi Me 
3 1b apie. qurdeili ' Leg udt cox sof dade ody 2h. Moai 2A {me tines taeda - ot 


svad ov wide odes 1? ot 
seurit Mi lb 
abe vibe ads obe vibasnd sd’f 


bic anes sewlt teat silos 10 obese BY shi thoddaton oi bine teinseiines 


rc 













rrakvoals bywel vA yeudtsmoe ‘vizuis Aintte # ; 7 at 
ane? Se mnil-sds youd (bobkiay yieietbai “i ‘ome 
Ve ho SAT oop I aig 2ith} oO gb rong zt modT | minog ot. e 


xii yebrior> to eotniv: qlee 9 oei9s 


1 Lee 
a 
s On i 


uote 10t intedd | 


aber, cv eraliewe’ tebdd gels in Hnchne wah sos att to asthe 
Yad tort tie wy yaaboran od: waited tied ud ble Senee on 
4OT2HUMT 2 .W i | 


Of noted 
> 






reed a 7 x . { J 
26 mowolid gomeaT tuto min noieinnay ~d barning 
at | wae So. 









Salisbury 


AN AUTUMN FOREST 
ON THE EASTERN SHORE 


Tinted leaves of wondrous hue, 
Red teaberries peeping thru 
Mossy beds and pine cones, too. 


Brown persimmons, luscious, sweet, 
Falling, beckoning, at your feet; 
Old stumps offering you a seat. 


Stately trees, sedate and tall, 





Continued 


Hie then to this magic land 
Tinted by a wondrous hand, 
Join the woodland’s happy band, 
On the Eastern Shore. 


A. EVERETT WILLIAMS, 


Salisbury. 


¢ 


INTERLUDE—ON THE EASTERN 





ney rr epepeeaheneenetreneenneenen 


Swaying proudly over all SHORE 
Nature’s beauty of the Fall. j 
; , ; A drowsy afternoon in Maryland, 

Squirrels climbing recklessly, A springtime lull in the midst of May; 

Leaping high from tree to tree; Dreamy voices come from far away, 

Hiding nuts from you and me. The very breezes wait around and stand 

With feet in velvet grasses 

Rabbits scrambling for their dens, Idling the long, long day. 

Thru the bushes, in the fens, 

Caring naught for poet’s pens. The growing season is now satiated, 

; The day is filled with the tide of spring, 

Winter birds their festive song, A tew more hours of growth will bring 

Never fearing winter long; Summer in all maturity created; 

Warbling gaily in their tongue. And spring will be gone with liquid grace 

And fluttering wing. 

Here in forest solitude 

Nature cries that God is good Now comes this drowsy afternoon in May, 

To His creatures in the wood. With field and orchard seeming half asleep 

And half dreaming, mysterious and deep, 

If He marks the sperrow’s fall, A lull, a languid spell for just one day 

He will hear His children call— H’er the swelling tide of summer begins 

For His love is over all. Again with ceaseless sweep! 

In his Kingdom of the trees RUTH ELOISE DOWNING, 

God will put your soul at ease, Salisbury, Maryland. i 

Who His every creature sees. 

PERSONAL TRIBUTES | 

The personal tributes appearing in these pages just crept in—we couldn't keep them i 
out. The Shore has produced so many fine characters, strong men and noble women, we 
felt that these modest tributes to their worth would not be misplaced. 

Many of them are with us at this tme only in memory and the charm of a gracious 
personality that lives on and on. It is not true that the good men do is interred with 
their bones; those listed here are especially remembered for their Christian virtues and the 
good that lives after them. 

For those who are living, and with whom we are privileged to touch hands every 
day—nothing else need be said. We are glad to honor them before they pass beyond 
our ken, and to leave embodied in these pages some slight tribute to their useful lives. 

“High thoughts and noble 

In all lands, help me; 

My soul is fed by such, 

But ah the touch of human hands, | 
Warm, vital, close, 
Life’s symbols dear, 
These need I most— ) 
And now and here!’”’ 


Page One Hundred Forty Four 


ttl nD tS 


ee 


A a i Cer em 


a ie ll ec 


-tridetiee 


Jjiw boven, 2 ob nem bowe ot tart sew Foo #1 sl oo bac ne asvil wild % 






































baal cigar sift ot ands 
band evoibaow «a “a 


boad vqqed e'bontboow. sft ae 
won ares od) 


BMARLINW TTAHAVE .A 


> 


ZANT2LA BHT 7O—A0 1.019 R) 


anoue 
- ie, odd Yo Ge 
bariyrel{ ot aoomalle yeroth A 


:velf Yo jabias a! at ink eciygeiage A vlesoldost galdatils slevits 
‘tawve tel rev) ames sooley Yatee1G (9912 09 O97! mott a sa . 
buete bua bavow jlew eesooud aev BAT om bar voy mov) alua ae 
eoeena toviey al Jost div aa 
woh gaol .,ool 6d% gulibi eteb siod! 10% gaildarers af 
trol off af sodaud off 
botaline wou el soease gahworg BAT aro eJeoq tod ifavan 
eclane Jo obit ot dilw belld af Yah ant 
auitd Iliw diwows to eto stem Wel A acces evivaol vied} aba 
berust» viingiem iis at yeotmve saaol erate 
onte blupit dilw owog od iw goitas bak eugnos sed) nl am 


gniw adisenea bas ; 
ehattios jeota? a 


ed 


“al iw «fF peod?eia yvawo lb ei) semeos wow 7 boog al bod. andi polio Piiart 
gesies Vind ents 1oa0 Distioio bas pish dary .boow ail) ot aoitasty 
gueoh ban euoliorewm ,asimasth Ned bak a 
600 teri tol legs ‘bland n jtel A {tut eworsqs od) eAtent 
enbsed eat io «6b 6 6anitiowe ods seu .~ {tao awibitds ait yaod 
‘qeows absieases dw cies tip yeve et wvel al 
NvMIMWOR ASIOI2 ATUA aoe? ety lo mobanleat she 
buelvasid .crudeliag ooe9 In Ivor te0e Juq Tie 


e208 otHleSst> (1979 





24 TUSIAT SAVORS 

newt sed i ableos xw—e pga Seup eogeq seed) ab gamsagqs enudis lenge. a 
mw cormew sidon bone asm grote Arnwaeds car TNE oF boanbog sod mied2 2 
booekyun od Jom bluaw dnow ie) on estudid xobom aa 

2uoming le avo od? bas qed melon? ada team diye ore ap ai 


adi? bre rsgee ocux AD wads ol biedmeen vileipeqe 216 ge ve sort 2 
malt otis ai 
yowo abned avo ov boysleing amb eee soils diya bing sail ’ "i 


bewryod rea oc) soled owl aamedoon Lely 216 WW 
aril Joie veut @b sivdin tale ome 2syoq sett ni ede ? 





PS a l 1 $ b Ul i* £ ———-Continued 


Salisbury’s “Grand “Seldom is it given 


to a man to look back 
along the path of his 
career to see it light- 
ed from all sides by es- 
teem, trust and affec- 
tion. Seldom is _ it 
given to a people to 
recognize how much 
the life of such an one 
has influenced the 
course of their thought 
and their institu- 
tions.’’ 


Old Man’’—A record 
unexcelled in the State 
—Mr. Gunby has been 
engaged in active work 
for three score and 


eleven years. 





AN APPRECIATION 
Dedicated to L. W. GUNBY 


There is nothing more worth while than to build one’s character into the life of a 
community. It seems to me that so many of the fine things that make Salisbury what 
it is bear the hallmarks of both the genuiness and generosity of Louis W. Gunby. 

What is the secret of a life so useful? 

I have often sat with him in his home at the end of a day quietly watching the 
setting sun splashing its colors above a far-flung horizon. In the silence of that fellowship 
there was a revelation of life to life. His soul glistened with that without which nothing 
is good or great—I mean loyalty. Loyalty has moved his life into those deeds that merit 
the tribute of his friends and fellow citizens. Loyalty to the highest and. best makes: his 
life, as he stands in the midst of years, a citadel of strength from which float the banners 


of faith. 
W. ALFORD BOGGS. 





IN AFFECTIONATE REMEMBRANCE 
OF DR, THOMAS H, SVPENCK 


“Here was a man whose heart was good, 

Who walked with men and understood; pas 
His was a voice that spoke to cheer, 

And fell like music on the ear. 

His was a smile men loved to see, 

His was a hand that asked no fee 

For friendliness or kindness done; 

And now tnat he has journeyed on, 

His is a fame that never ends, 

And leaves behind uncounted friends.” 


Page One Hundred Forty Five 


cena naindcnes nin neath eal nn te enn tS rience neh het ee tn meni en ein nent netics 


ne acai sci ctessnemreasalssh seh nass e 


— ——*0- 


ttevig Ji ei moist" 
dood Hool G) isa 4 01 
nid Yo diag ods poole 
iiwit 31 aox 0) SaTHS 
«ee Yd eebie (la mort he 
“fm Hua Jew mies) 
‘) #! utobier aol 
0) siqouqg # 0) 19718 
dover wont  ssifimosr: 2 

onan ot ME -o% dogtesjo, oli of) oe ay 
ug basoontuil aad 


















diow eviios ot 


bas e098 


} 

Jdavod) tied) lo erives 7 om 
titan vgs nite 7 “ 

* saol) 





-— ss pan A ~~ p olaee a lea 


YOTTADIDSAATWIA VA 

YAWUO W Do buesibot 
¢ Yo SU a) omni 199 evad 2onu bhud of nédeclide dAnow nom yaidson au nod 
produc? odim ter exocds ond ot 1o-veern oe iat sat oF eniser of 
(dow) OW eivel Jo wrewronen bie eerie ot tod 36 2dineilled sili 
Sluloww ov dtl a lo toss ol at ted 


yiifivew vioiup veb e lo bas ot mm oemod el as ead htew te nore oved 
wieedlbyl wultte socal oft ol .noxted gpa! & sradenidlos wi gaiseelqe nue | 
il durhy jodi tod dinw bwnwiinp iow aH ott oF stil ia nouelsyar & 
1cli ebool ood? ota: oti! aid boven: warh vilnyed. .ytleyol anem 1 eag vo Boe 


d zodvon vod bas wotgd ods op vilewad sanasivi wellylokac «boon etd to onudiny of 
vonacd! ods qeoll doibw mod Arynsie jo Ishivin & 22eKy7 Io bina adi ni sens 


hk yOu CIHOFLIA . 





SOV EASICAW AR WTELYORTRANYMA ZI 
A/S 8 1 @GAMOnNYT 210 SO a 


boog any New BHO HAE & PAW BIDEET for mene | o 
eed, lhodivisham bas fom Win botiaw of WT 
tan Se _ ede Of ohoge ted? sotoy & sew BIT . 
ican) -’ : ae at? we aevin ott] Het baa oo’ 
208 of bevel oem olime a cow Si 
aot on ee jars paul 

sone0b wmesnhwsk to- wasnt : = 

no berorieol end af sont w ai 
etovent ted) wae? & fot 
‘thash) blame 


Sa lis b u lr Y —Continued 


HERE'S TO DGCTOR DICK! 


Forty years we’ve called him friend; 
And tho’ he’s cross as a soretail cat— 
Rough as a rasp and grouchy, too, 
Believe it or not— 

There’s brains beneath his hat. 


Day in—day out, thru rain or shine, 

He had little time to eat or rest, 

But pain-racked bodies who felt his touch, 
Knew there was a heart within his breast. 


A blinding flash—a wreck and a scream! 
“Somebody do something quick’’ 

The road was long and the night was dark, 
But just the same—came Dr. Dick. 





He’s mended our legs and sewed up our cuts, 
And hearkened to the cry of pain; 

And he’s gone to bed at 2 A. M. 

To be called right out again. 


He’s brought our babies one by one; 
And cured our aches and ills; 

He’s dosed us with the darndest stuff, 
And given us lots of sugar pills. 


He’s been with us in joy and sorrow— 
And almost—he’s worn his life away—— 
In service, just plain service, men, 
Without one thought of pay. 


Swiftly the busy years roll on 

To touch with gray the hair once brown; 
And cross as a cat, but still on the job, 
He Doctors the whole darn town. 


We learned his grouch was just a bluff, 
And in that manly breast-—— 

Was the kindest heart man ever wore, 
Beating strong beneath his vest. 


For he’s a man only God could have made; 

The best ever born of woman; 

Tho he snaps and snarls and grunts and growls, 
Deep down inside he’s human. 


If we could ask of heaven today 
One gift supreme for the Eastern Shore, 
We'd simply say give us Dr. Dick 
For another forty years and more. 
Here’s to the gray in your hair, Doc, 
And here’s to the fire in your heart; 
And death to the man who dares to say 
That you have not done your part. 
God knows you have, and love is yours 
From lives you’ve touched te the quick, 
And here’s to you——with a heart of gold; 
: God bless you, Doctor Dick! 
Ww. C. THURSTON 
To Dr. J. MacFadden Dick, June 1st, 1936, upon the occasion of his being honored 
by the Salisbury Chamber of Commerce for his life of service to this community. 


Page One Hundred Forty Six 


RT 


- 


hetoned galed eid Jo nolesa20 off) apgd .O8AT vel $ilk: 300) en tpt 
“UhetteD eid) of solviee Yo ott! att wt sahleatamns ww a sae 


LON BOT IOG OF eT 


beady Ladeieas vain ja 
—-t0o. etree a aa 8079 a’od ‘ots & 
003 ,wdovotg hus qezt 4 ap ig 
—ion “t st ovotfe 

Jad “id dicowed aniad ws 


nyse 
ontde 1 wer uidt jo ¥ ath ted 


Jae wo 09 OF wml Olas bad of 


tooo! ald te) ort eolhed holo ns-stng 
Jeootd ed ohdilwe rieod « eaw ered) wond 


lrrasi98 @ Dae Hoorw a—resh gaiballd & 


“sop yuldiomoe ob yhodento2*’ 


‘'te6b sew dealin uf! bae anol eew beot eiT 


‘ 


fol 20 ontns—onres of? Jeol Ton 


js» 190 qt bewee bac opel ive bebuom ae 


jieq Jo 45 54) of bapodiaed BrA 
A 2 3s bed of onog e'od baA 
Niage ivo idutt beiles ed oT 


7n0 Yd suo esldad 1#0 Idguoid ae 


ly Bus aodoe 106 bets BAA 

Rute teabevwelh oc! dhe ea baaab e'eoh 
alliqg tayue lo sto! ay govig boA 
worvroa bia col wm! eu diiw good a'sH 


tcwa 27 aif miew a od-—teomls BoA 
vai ,@atviee cinliq teut »otvwme ol 
“ug to riguornt eno jugdiivy 


no tla my yaud edi villiwd 
1 sono Wer od) cary Aiw Aso oT 
ij no This Jed jeo 8 46 fao719o DAA 


wal utAD vid¢dw ad) e1otooll oH 


id aul saw dovete did fenmtiael a 
-teeend Yani jadi nl BAA 

7 49th Won toed jeehoiad att ea V7 
feov aid diagued aug galiacll 

it bheoe DoD clue cam A ead 10% 
‘noomw Yo arod reve teed edT 
nus bao alvane buon epane 4 OT 
Hamed aod obtaal awob qed 
‘ebo) waveon Yo gan Dives ow TT 


e10d2 westeed ef) 401 exsiaique Dita onO 


aot 1 zu ovla vee vqinte b'oW 
10m bite es40¢ thiol rillena 104 
20 “ier aie “nie of) of ae teH 
oom! 720% oi oth of1 wt sored bUaA 
a) a®ielh aiw nomen) of diesh BHA 


Jtuqd sot snub ton avail voy JadT 


a1ney at ove bos ved Bot swoud boy 
lotup ot) at bedowe) ov'vey eovll mort 


‘blog Yo Paet @ Mtv «vor of eed bad 


'dolt Laat .0o¢ esvld eee 





i a: 4 

























































1 


Sa lis b Ui lY ——-Coniinued 


TWESTY FIVE YEARS 


Twenty five years you plugged along--~ 
Sticking close to the task at hand, 

And -it wasn’t aH laughter—ligut ane seng, 
*"Twas just plain work-—well mixed with sand. 


You made the grade ané tonped the hill 
And when the road was rough, 

You kept on going hy ferce of will 
Like a regvlar man-—you did your stuff. 


, 





Your star and compass was honest work—- 
That showed your tracks ov the road, 
A sign to the man inclined to shirk 
To step up and carry jiis load. 


Congratulations, you splendid fellow— 
On the honorable record you made, 
Your scratches and scars are far from yellow 
And you didn’t get them in the shade. 





Here’s best wishes and health tc you; 
And strength to your geod right hand, 
Our hats are off—for that’s your due, 
To a much esteemed and worthy man. d 
W. C. THURSTON. 


To Harold C. Hearn, on the occasion of his twenty fifth anniversary with work. 





A TRIBUTE TO 
MRS. CAROLINE GOETZ HIGGINS 


THY VILLAGE POET PENS A TRIBUTE 
TO FATHER DOUGHERTY 
Into our midst there came 


We shall miss her in the morning; A Priest in sombre garb: 


There'll be tears at close of day, 
We who loved her will be grieving 
For a friend who’s gone away. 


How short the happy years, since she, 
A smiling—blushing bride, 

Came with us to live and love— 

And in our hearts abide. 


Sweet and gentle—kind and true; 

A loving-faithful wite, 

She walked with God from day to day, 
A consecrated Christian life. 


None spoke ill of her—her smile 
Revealecu ad heart so warm, 

That love was hers from every one 
To shield her from all harm. 


We shall miss her in the morning, 
And when the lights are dim 
There’ll be tears, and in our prayers 
Each heart will be remembering. 


A FRIEND. 


Frieudly and pleasant spoken— 
riz words concealed no hidden barb 
Each day his ready smile 
F.ashed a message true, 
That serving God was love to men— 
Ave, even unto you. 
So human one might call him friend, 
NOr Gian ate aieal sand Mo Pard’?: 
Content to serve-—and caring naught 
For wordly wealth or fame, 
God drew closer to our hearts 
When Father Dougherty came. 

Wis Om El ULES LOIN. 


A GOOD WOMAN 
Dedicated to Mrs. Nettie B. White 
Hers is not glory—- 

Nor the high peaks of fame; 
But this is the story— 

She bears but one name— 
The truest and best 

Of traits that are human; 
What more can be said? 

She is just a good woman, 

We GC. THURSTON: 


Page One Hundred Forty Seven 


— 


A EN RL A EE A A 


iow dilw vreetevtans ditt yvesws all Jo nolensco odd oo..p309H .D bloisH oF ) 


‘ 
MTT A AZAN THO ADLALITY GANT OT ATIJAINT A 
ITHANW ION NHANTAA OT _4471TOOLM TIO AZLIONAD 
wmu8) eto iii ; 
“d st peti a ae ; ;aahrtor od} ated eater il 
navtod ianeiq boa vibueht’4 <eb la seolo Ja etaet od I 
nad aebbid oo belegsaos ehtew com mi vovim ed Iw agit bevol 
mlige Ybao sid veh Coad “Wie s anos @adw baoit? & 
ouvl oaneeein 2 bodue 
fein oi ovol 2uw bot) suivie8s Sod ods epale ieee yYuged od] node 
nov oluu eve 224 Shird galdevid— a 
Lasts} offd theo tdgim ono wanied 6B ~-9¥al ban svif oo) av date 9 
band bap is'l* ta tianp we sbide atissd wo al ba ? 


pened, eh NT AR MI Te ie . 






are) aa ae a ie 
ils ya 


schieregaa 
ite ae oe aa 


anee bas iifall—edgedi Me fp 
-base dttw bez iew~-ahrew alalq loan ow ay? 


Jtid ad) beqgot Bue s6219 off obait wat i) 
query t baos od) codw bnA “Ty 
—tHiw to eo10) yd gnieg no Jqod, sqod OY * 

Rule tnoe bid HOt-anat waloget es oul « 


stow Jesnod_ sew eacqmos. baa rsie ApOT 
.bs01 of) vo aigetf 1901 bewods.2 

divide oF hauifou! vem off of gia A vA 

.baol ald eqetas bad qu gota oT 


wollte) bibnelge vot ssolisinijatgnod 
bom vot fesse oidotonod of} aO 
wolley won) 18? 4B Abode hus eodoietee 0 
shore ot) ai ofeit 6a J ubib voy BAA 


‘not of difeed fee aedeiw iaod. aera 
bood Itgis bOog 4O8 OF dane BRA 
20h 1)8? eiedi-iot-—-fo wa ead 180 
cau wiriow baw bemesies dosum a oT 
VOTZHUHT O .W 













































¥ 





ifavac votes: biia--—oviva OF San)ee) 
omen 10 Miieew uUbow wi ; " 

ettced anc of toeolo wath bed rong Das aay sage bas 

emes Wiodgnod ydhiet asd; yOitw. Au d3)s}- 7 
VOTaNNHT 9 .wW teh of 4ab atot? bol ditw hedlaw 
ee ie 41k aaiisiidD boar . 


ViMOH GOOD A vliiae 194— wal Io Hi edoun's 
sth A ettie% 21M of bstatho — Aigw oa dined 2 
yioly jon el — ond Tote ord 
‘otal Yo wdnog daid of) YOK ane ia 
-~¥ile oa] al eid) Jot m -- gle a 
~-¢iane euo tod atsed 648 aaigrom sii ni wd xaint 
jxod box toni! off oem ont 
tuted 9tm jad) alle 10 rioestq 4 haa xtn0t od f 
Thime yd on soe Ind W ant 91 thw 
unMnow hoa eo deat el ofé M spt tis ; a Baa 9 
AOTAAVAT OW © avait a meme 


i 
; = 


; 7 a 


re 
v1 






Salisbury 





Continued 


J. WOOLFORD JOHNSON, 40 YEARS A PYTHIAN 


J. Woolford Johnson had been forty years a Pythian. Constant as the earth around 


the sun. 


His fellow Pythians felt that something ‘should be done about it. The man was 
strong and healthy—seemed like there was no chance ot his dying, so his Lodge brothers 
decided to hold the funeral anyway, and give him his flowers while he was living. 

They decided on a surprise party; on the occasion of his birthday, about twenty or 
his Pythian friends knocked at the door and solemnly filed in. 

With lugubrious faces, they announced that they came to prefer charges against him. 
One of their number was delegated to read the charges, which he proceeded to do. 
After a long preamble the specific charges cgainst him were enumerated as follows; 

“J. Woolford Johnson, twenty members of the Pythian Order solemnly state that you 
are guilty of a deep and abiding loyalty to the Pythian Lodge. You are furthermore 
accused of being a good fellow—a good Pythian, and by the grece of a good mother and 
a faithful wife, one of the men whom God made. Are you guilty or not guilty? 

Mr. Johnson was then presented with a beautiful purse—suitably inscribed, and 
containing a crisp one dollar bill, which, the committee informed him was to be used 
to give him a new start in life. The birthday poem was then read by one of the 


members. 


“Three score and two, brother Johuson, 
Have touched you but lightly, it seems. 


While the years took toil of your youth— 


They left you fond hope and your dreams. 

’Twas a long——hard road, brother 
Johnson, 

’Twould be foolish to say it’s not so. 

But there were bright stretches of 
beauty—- 

And the leaven of iovye’s tender glow. 

To wish you many happy returns 

Would spoil what we're trying to say. 

For somehow, our old hearts are touched 


With the sadness and the joy of today. 
J. Woolford, our friend and our comrade, 
Unafraid—you are facing the west. 

And today—tho it only be wishes— 
For you they are of the heart’s best. 

We present a little gift—it is small, 

But it means our affection and esteem; 
Kind God, we are saying, let us keep him, 
And share in his hope and his dream. 

So here’s to your health, J. Woolford, 
For your honest old heart—-a sweet song. 
And lest you should be needing our love, 
To make sure, we brought it along.” 





Dedicated to the 
PYTHIAN CASTLE 
And the Knights of the Shore 


Strong are the walls, oh castle, 
As tho with iron bands— 

For friendship girts thee ‘round 
With the strength of many hands. 


A golden chain of love 
These many years have held, 
The Knights in a stronger bond 
Than any the Smith can weld. 


Within thy ancient portals 
A sacred fire glows, 


Page One Hundred Forty Eight 


Bright with the friendly radiance 
That every Pythian knows. 

Guard well thy secrets, oh castle, 
Where friend and brother meet, 

And kindle anew your sacred flame 
To guide their faltering feet. 


Strong are thy walls, oh castle, 
To bind the hearts of men 
In the mystic links of brotherhood, 
That does not change nor dim. 
Here dwells the spirit of Pythias, 
Who pledged his life for another; 
In friendship——caution and bravery— 
Who wears the spurs is your brother. 


Was. THURS 2ON 


ee ee wks alae peek Ae Al it A At SN AS aN a NN NA a A! A nS Nt tN Re RD NARA LE A te PR ONAN Un Ash mn 
. LR 


ee 


LT ER Sema mmm 


ge a 


ee ee 


5 
















































mee = 1s mid sath oP 
 . 
{eg tountiee—= YUE 


VAIHTY4 A @HARY OF HOSAHOL aso4 00% 


ted 


bavom Ann ody es toctane .neidl & mex, ta one bed veri 


ay 


caw gain odT 3 tude snob od blupila’ gnidtemoe teil ita precy tr wol . 
risshiord soboS zid oe .enivb aid Jo somes ee eew cases oil barsxe—ydileod ba nd 
gar! ec od slulw caval dul maak ovig bom yeertne Iona ont blod oF 

wods .vebdinid el Jo doivasie att no pyheq pefieprue a no bobmeb ¥ 
11 boll vinerskee bie woob sof) $8 boabead ebaand ne ane 
l tenicge esyiels isis of ore gars gael) bosnwdank Yort 2d euondugul ser ; 
ob of baboon of thidwe 2oysdds ot bes of bateyslsh 2ew Godmun winded 


a a 

;ewollet ea boimornuas ow ane Peaiags 21 ars witeeqe ad? sidranoy yitl : 

{ J { 
avy 


uO" sex ylorasloe y2inO anidtyd ads lo evedinocn yinsw) ,noentol bioilooW , 5 
momrmdiwt sie uot anbect axidryT adi a olevol ynithide bas qasb ¢ to lk “a 
bie yotiom boog « lo so uli yd beg .oxidsyl Loog p—wolls) booy « ynied to baer 
Syviliey 2 » ilwy soy 7A .Sharm bow mode com si to sH0  albw lui 
bns ai vidusiu: vq lyidueed 2 dive bomnseng asds eew sono] aM 
boy xf oF eew cd beenolai sotiimines alt ,coniw thd asilob sno qos 2 yn 
: » aol «ow moog yvabdnad oafT .shleni mew won ex mid ee 
jn easaobaan off dgid/ noeagdol todtoid ,ow? bas evoos este 
{ ue hy tloo // | 2 138 iH tidal! wd noy bodowos fe 
/ 7 vo ¢———binter ds Mock wey to lio) HOO? Hae sdT@ ilk 
ty suhot has nitteéerb HOV bas equ bao) way 10 pe ay 
vei3 wae wd ssliatd ,bsot biad—~-sool as) & 
6 inbawtg oT rortdot 
a : u wer fi Tus t ou atl var oF dalloa) ed Sle » 
0 Tue oo antes thew bod bain: io eedolewte idaind stow otedes 
: hi ; "ode. bol -—Ooe 7 i, 
ban y : an oo st vised we wola Tobias s'evai lo navasl or ns 2 
— . ' : ‘ Ou "4 tal ty tqqed Voom 0% 
od ' hae 4 oF nuigu etey Jedw loge ® 
bus a oT betpvet ere arrasd 616 tuo wed ction 
LF LOA AE SEP SR 
soneifes vbnets) od) dibe idee ef! of belasibed, 
GUAITs Tere see _ SITRAD ZANT YTS 
{ : { j ty apats > ; 
Me eae Tae ew wae wrote off to etigiadl att 
' i) beet husit! medW 
en ee oe ee — Seay do slaw 661 on 
WA ach ray! ore & —abasd gor djiw, of) 
ijens do ,«llaw ! eth @aOTIa hacot soft aftip. alizhé 
tert lo atioet off bald oF band yinm Jo digavite is 
sbomitediowd To alait olleqer ed us} ; why SE 


‘ 


eval Yo alate mirod: 
lod oved <ie9% tanm bar 

haod wWanetia a a! etiginA & 

blow oso isi od! Yow apd? 


7 ot 
aigitog Inehona git ep si 
MOTAATAT © J \ awoly o10 The 


set 


ih von »sanad> gon esoh tadT 


isvitege 103 sll eid begiiotlas efW 
—wvievnot bite acdiivnas—-yidebasn) al 
aedtowl oor al e1uge off? mine w oT 


emidigsh Yo sulqa ail) alewh ote 
1 


ry 





Salisbury 


WINDOW—CHATS 


Dedicated to Miss Laura Lee Wailes 


A wayside flower at the office window 


Tea table chats are restful, 
And a confab here and there— 


Is a lifted straw from the camel’s back— 


To lighten our load of care. 


A tete-a-tete at the garden gate— 
In the twilight’s peace and calm, 
Is an anodyne of ills forgot;— 

A friendly healing balm. 


But daily passing to and fro— 
Trudging the weary miles, 
A girl at the office window 
Nods her head and smiles. 


Fireside chats when winter comes, 
Or a walk in the early fall; 

These are fine—-but a window chat— 
Say, that is the best of all! 


The zest of life in a friendly chat; 

A bow, a smile and a nod, 

And what is heaven—when all is said, 
But a little chat with God. 


The prince of Peace invites you 
To stop and chat a while; 

And I’m sure He’li wait 

At the golden gate— 

To welcome all with a smile. 


WwW. C. THURSTON: 





SMILES 


Smiles help—that’s certain, 
Frowns never do; 





Deep inside you’re hurtin’ 
Feelin’ worse than blue; 


Some one smiles-—and then, 
You are smiling too. 


So many thing to hurt 
And keep our tempers riled; 


But when God had made the earth— 
He rested—then He smiled. 


W. C. THURSTON. 


Continued 





SILVER WINGS 
To a Lieutenant in the Lafayette Escadrille 


High, high, up in the sky, 
Over the mountain’s crest, 
Low, low, swoop on the foe, 
Beating the hawk, at its best! 
Silver wings, 

Wonderful things! 

Borne on a brave boy’s breast. 


Dart, and dash! quiver and flash! 
Swifter than eagles’ flight, 

Sending the enemy down with a crash! 
Now hiding deep in the night. 

Silver wings, wonderful things! 

Guide my brave boy aright! 


Silver wings, wonderful things! 

Soon may the glad day come, 

No more to rove from the land of his love. 
When you bring my brave boy home, 
Silver wings, 

Wonderful things! 9g 

To his mother’s arms, and Home! 


By B.A, B: 
(Mrs. Archer-Burton) 


“Silver Wings’, written during the tur- 
bulent days of the world war, was dedi- 
cated to Lieutenant Alexander T. Grier, 
then in the U. S. Aviation Service, and 
presented to his father and mother, Mr- 
and Mrs. Robt. D. Grier of Salisbury, by 
Mrs, BE. A. Archer-Burton, whose book of 
verse, published in 1929, bore the same 
title. 


After the war, Lieutenant Grier was the 
recipient of two distinguished service 
medals awarded by the government. One 
was the “Silver Star of Merit, sana tne 
other-—the much coveted Croix de Guerre 


EDITOR. 


a 


"on 


“Man” is mentioned in the Bible 4.332 
times while “woman” is mentioned only 
536. This seems to bear out the fact 
that men wrote it. 


Page One Hundred Forty Nine 


en eli alr EINER iA Tt Atlant alert Pete le 


7 ONE Ml 5 SRNL a ay i 5 URN 


Bites Te ee 


ORL | 


ae 


Sie laa, si eR ante 


pect scspeia ppl hie atin eek Ueda 6 bea ee IN ad A tl ahh 
















































( 
; 
é 
: : : > pt eee 
ROVIW AAT _ BTAHO--WoakIW 
: ’ Tacx 8 re oo Px 
Hhsbeved otto cabal off ml seme): hd % oT eolla uw onl wom 
tie od) cl au .duid .dnilt wien ooo of! | sa label Biden aw 
> Jeets a‘aiaiowem adi tev) 
oo) of? ao qaowe vol wal Jdtieo, on elas site ! 
jeod afl dn wael odd weiteatl —s1et bee sted delaos 
21h sevlle-—dosd a'lemss ef) mot weve, ptt 
Sour 4s (vwinvebao VW TRS Yo bwol two 7 ‘ 
i:ietd 2’ yo (aid & oo sp70H " Die 
: —*lsy notviag orld Ja eleses P) 
‘Hanh ho vlien i ddel ben eeee also bon aaneq asdtalliwl a 
j 2 ‘init * bes ; ne an ayibhed = —_- eal alti lo sathor ‘0a, 
i ; 12 a div b unete.ad) gatbase ited galleed Ubon 
Tinta « tt qaoh anihld wok em 
WN loteihdew “saan sevite —onl has o3 wateaag xf 
ai va ovat 77 sbind pl ions YUSeW 0 $3 ae 
wobalw eno of} js 
. — aieieie’ anata @ollime bas’ basd “ai 
' weal ald Wo haul ad? Mor? rat aa somos roJaiw aedw ears obi at 
: attinal ies tet wa) aa aH 7a? thas edi al ding *.) 
) yalw qorlle fers wobule s tIvd-——eah 916 ¢ 2a 
, 1 lees has ey ‘ite to Jed ons af Seda 
em a ee tibastit 4 at tlt to mene 
fA den bon & ban eiime a 
in ot 7 bine et On cetivw—oevecd ei — - 
bod dtiw tado elisib- 3 u 
wot eelival osa6tt. to soatig aif” 
; in r sewha .sltiw a teto bos qo 
; velind Jiew i'sH otun m't § 
- : Oo? Hebes ss ~—slia feb on 4 rh 4 f 
; at gv) alias a djlw Uo ema; , 
ae - HT oO Ww ® 
; 
thd wetay — 7 
iti? 
F _ PATI 
{ . craig Ar ih OI aid ype Ser Mtianes ejadi—qlod sella 
: ' — 2 i vli2" off cuw : Tob teven af ova 
7F ‘ ¢ 7 PPL | mm tet 7 &. -1 1) 
f : nal ‘anad o1voy obledl qa “a 
imoTuta ould aad) sei0ow “a sh 
7 od) baa--selinta ono on of 
t os gaiiline ™, as Y 
} 7 ne fhiud oF antdy ana oa 
: ‘ Pree theif: arequpes 10 Goat & nd 
bie ? 4/4. -alt ni. henetia “uy = “nee” —- Mites el ebom bail ‘hod got 
ay? beatin ww ‘tenaw’ eligdw sani? bettas ol neds—b 
‘eh o@! tite dead oF aness: off whe : 
Noaioww weet Gaul: VOTaRURT .D » oe — i 
*: 
i. _ oni vival evbewsH and oy4 






r he a 


Sa lis b Ur Y —Continued 


PICTUR’S IN LHE WINDOW When they all came to see 
The chap who was tempted— 
Paging Mrs. C. M. Freeman Not by Eden’s red fruit, 
But a punkin’ pie mixture 

“Jes’ pictur’s in the window”, With flavors to suit. 
Jim Smith, he ‘lowed to me; I was thrust in a furnace, 
But Jim ain’t got no vision— And rolled in the sand— 
His eyes wern’t made to see : Then banished forever 
That them pictur’s in the window To a desolate land 
Is what the folks call art; Where the people ate pie 
An’ there’s sump’in’ ’round, about ’em, For a year and a day, 
That goes right to the heart. Just plain punkin’ pie 
Them flowers tooked so natur’l Covered over with whey. 
I could almost see ’em grow, Dear Lady, your pie 
An’ nod their heads to the breezes Was sweeter than cake, 
That ’round the corner blow. But it gave me, oh Lady, 
And that there little pup— Such a large stomach ache, 
With them honest eyes o’ his, That never again, oh Lady, will I 
Why, I remarked to Jim, Eat a dark brown conccction 
“T could buy him as he is.’’ That is called punkin’ pie! 


I ain’t got no education— 
An’ I ain’t setting’ up as smart, 
But them pictur’s Mrs. Freeman painted WHEN YOU UNDERSTAND A FELLOW 
Is my idee of art. 
W.C. THURSTON Dedicated to the husband of the woman 
who made the “‘punkin’ pie” 


PUNIKUIN’ PIE When you understand a fellow 
And like him just the same; 

Dear Lady, your pie— When you leave off all his titles 
Filled with sugar and spice, And call him by his name. 
And a wee bit of punkin’, 
Was really very fine When your friendship stronger grows 
A delectable edible— Thruout the passing years; 
And a morsel most tasty; And you overlook his failings, 
A delicious concoction— And share his joys and tears. 
(Now don’t think I’m hasty) 
That would tempt any mortal When you meet on common ground 
To ask for a bite, As one man to another; 
But sad was my fate— And you’ve reached that friendly plane 
I ate it at night! Where you understand each other. 
And I dreamed of blue devils 
Who screamed in their wrath When you know whatever happens 
Because of the sins He’ll be with you to the end, 
Of my unsavory past. Then thank the God who made you 
I was drowned in the ocean For His one best gift— 
And hanged on a tree, A FRIEND. 
To be scorned of creation— W. CA THUR STON 





DALE AND DAVIS EXCHANGE VIEWS 


“Time,” solemnly said Professor P. Dale Wimbrow, “is a mystery which in itself 
is.ut an immense eternal motionless present, wherein all that takes place, takes place 
immediately, in which tomorrow, save in the ephemeral mind of man, is indistinguish- 
able trom yestercay and today.” 

“T presume so,” agreed Oscar Davis. “At any rate, it is what politicians fill with 
sound, fury, froth and musical fHapdoedle, instead of horse sense and honest endeavor 
to make themselves useful to the public, and it is also what all you fellows consume a 
great deal of in relating utterly pointless reminiscenses of your abysmal doings 

After this exchange ef views they adjourned to the broadez isung station, WSAL 
on E. Main St. 


Page Cne Hundred Fifty 


ee ee a ee Tet I ee 
ee Ce ee ee 


~ 


— 


, gaa of omens > ite tons note 
—potqaret eow odw qudo otT 
Stand ber «abt yd fo% 
orntzive siq ‘aldndg @ ue 
Jina of eroval Any! 
oan) « at tent saw T 
boxe efi af ballot baa 
. wysie) .badeluad o9dT . 
baal ajeloasb o oT 
aiq ota of_oeq of! ated 
hb 68 baa 148%.4 104 
| ‘eldaagq otalg saat 
qadiw dtiw ‘oO bemvoD 
' “ot “bal 1Aa9 
8AB9 ny 44 cove aa 7 


J a evan 3l 108 

he sist 
Wr tt : sovoud JLaT 
i ) 4 if 7 > Jag 
he tes al Jatt 


WOKING £ AZETAHAIAT I) OE 


caciow #4) Ja Dr ey oft) of 
“sty ‘nisvod of} afhedt oaw 


} 7 < ! 


- , 
iad De 


retala , a9 +" : ; r oa? 


“ ; raynitw we 
(si of Of 


- 


7a 


hotasl peti 


my aady 
mit GAA 


iv aw 


‘ oat 

5 

muy si is 1) wot 
ip { 7 





~~; 













—nolaiv on = 84 at 
set of sham cages 2nN® 


waobuiw ans al xuit9! q mor 4 


ae” juvoda- buues’. 


aasssitd of} of ebaad 


batniag 


AOTSAUHT DO .W 


,eolge baa 


..golisew lo bemioss od oT 





F zieend mI 
win fai 


haow thed? al bomasiwe of W 


















































i128 no allo pee 
‘utiq °a 
Jisod 983 ot ae og Fh 
I'wiew o@ bedont erowol a 
.worg ico’ ove teomlae t 10> 
todr | ot a. 
wold tartes ods bavow Jad 
*—fuq ati oro Ye an 
eid "o eave jacnod medi ad 
wit o} bedsanmaes i e 

"st of an sid xed blo 
—noliasebe om ton be 
Necte ea gu ‘gallos Tale De 
namoe1d .2iM 2 1Hiolq mod) 3m 
18 to eohi a 


er 


® 


ard ‘“Iaee4 iy 
bd ole, mRON bad rash)” 
mye dslw boilit - 
"nibawern Yo Nd sew o bad 

eal viev vile aaW 

-—4ldibe aldatseleb A 
:viaa! Jeon feetom « DHA 
—— (Fol j209009 anoiotiob Ao al 
fois Saab wor) - 


1om vate tant! binew —_ : 
lid a tol das o a 


—-sisl yor eaw bas Jo 
‘idgian ja H oia DB 
b suld Yo bameoth I baA 


etic of? to eevacél 

Jaag Yoveeny tt 10. 
saeco ed3 at heawoth row 1 
oor) o wo begaed bak 





S 
WAIT ADVAHMOKS 21VACG GMA AIAG ‘— 

Heo ai dotdw nelhym 6 ee wouleni Wi sled] . | remaster bine ylnervalee "een T™ ae 
yye lop covet ested serls Ie nisi trperiy 22 sinned Ien.289 SEN DETNTAN, ne ime 
-deiugnivil a .nem to bain levomeige sdt mi ore MOVOTO dude rn edornil one 

: “yabor bas B ipe so nt d 
rarw snarstiiog tury a1) oie Ye A” cont PD ieeOD bonge “, ve Ricoes Uy re 
Tovnebrae Ben fd tne senor snr wl to brweni ahoobaah lerieim that dio) ew : 


& arsine flay @yrey Nyt 


- ; 
Lika inscenly 


o 


U2 vise gaueobeod odd on bawwejbe yore ewer jo syeed 


‘a ‘Ps | 


ve le senko ela at Low arth wt aft op Inioew aostavetrod : 
wor jy mrmoaan eealiney ¢howu gniths of to ley bm 







mS pied 


Sa lis b Ui lh U—--Continued 


The Students of Temple Univessity Henor Dr. Wuiles 


DEDICATED TO GEORGE HANDY WAILES UPON THE FORTIETH 
ANNIVERSARY OF HIS ORDINATION INYO THE CHRISTIAN MINISTRY 


Ordained to the ministry forty years ago this week. Congratulations, Dr. Wailes; 
May we say a few words of appreciation, an appreciation which nas grown steadily over 
the past six years. You are one of those rare personalities energing at intrequent inter- 
vals that live in the thoughts and the hearts of those around you; whose very presence 1s 
an inspiration; whose scholarship changes the pattern ef men’s minds from smallness to 
greatness; whose quiet sincerity reaches instantly the souls of those with whom contact 
is made in classroom, pulpit or on the highways and byways of life itself. 

Forty years of service and the greater part of 1t given to molding the youth tripping 
in and out of the doors of Temple University. We love yeu, Dr. Wai ‘les; We know you 
love us. 

Here in the tasks of every aay, 

Here in your loving human wey, 

Your ideals new Edens build, 

Your teaching helps them to rise fulfillec, 
Your vision reaching beyond the sky 
Brings down to us our God en high. 


F, LEONARD WATLES 


They call him Counselor who came 

To learn the rules of life’s hard game; 

To get, to noid, and then devise 

The things which men most highly prize; 

Broad lands, bright gold and pride of 
name. 

Symbols of earth’s illusive fame; 

Rewards for him with less allure 

Than those which for all time endure. 


They called him Man who came to feel, 
The temper of his spirit’s steel; 

Who in life’s drama heard him read 
The lines expressive of his creed; 
Who in that drama saw him play 

A noble part from day to day. 

And when a brother’s courage waned, 
By word-and deed his hope sustained. 


They called him. Christian, they who saw 
The faith which was his guiding law, 
And noted his calm confidence 

That Time would yield full recompense. 
His early-charted course he steered, 

And from its object never veered: 

To reach at last man’s fairest goal, 

The satisfactions of the soul. 


They called him Enemy who stood 

Opposed to justice, truth and good, 

# And knew that ere they could advance 

They needs must break his valiant lance. 

Unmindtful of the world’s applause 

He fought to aid the righteous cause, 

Its wrongs to right, its truths defend, 

And we who loved him called him Friend. 
A FRIEND. 


Note: Mr. Wailes passed away Novem- 
ber 29th, 1935. 


Page One Hundred Fifty One 


quvitiniiminctes 






ok ae 
ans hei W--=|Y I 


BF 
- iv) a pe ' 
7 eli. Wd ene pieeovia atqens 
HTAITAOD Fir YOT 2aTAWw YOY ao y 
YAT2I“IM WATTeIaMy HT oOr“i Saeee 20.08 ra 28: 


ralicW Ch enoitglumena’) stegey ‘eldt ya ereov ynol (Cueinise is . 
wvo yi lilygote rere Bri: wt hoituizangeye oe. viiiorngge. toe eSngWe wal 
“t3ili InhQupsint 1 EASY 29 Jilen WIM] Jie worlt 3 1Q ano 6 UY “ast, 
a: Sawa Vie seovkw "woy boos sends | i) aticod owl bae partner p+ ‘a wit 
) eeonilamne mow zimim 2‘nem do ae ott en menetd qitertlodae sory 7108 
inion modw din swat Yo plijos Wu gitarvat eodoen Qitsoiie isi aeodae een 
Alsen a1! to 2¢nwyd baie evevrdtgid ods 90 20 ualug inaneeshs aie Due 
grain Aiuey ods yniblec of aay ie f to ne " korg ots bag salve Yo eesy 7 
voy wond 7V/jesligh! at) uae 'sval 3W - iets rin alqmsT to noob 'sdi to 




































































(4& Wteve to a#ans off al sisi 


caw nemo sorvol wey ol omH 
bfivd aeeba wee alaobl s90¥ 
Dolihio? seit af med) gied saidoas] wo0Y 
(ka of) Beaged snideast motety woY ry 
izid ae hot) so a0 of awob egaha nwt 
SATA WW ONEVOAA | 
tw til4entio? min [aes youT . a 
"ail #'4iil Yo luv od? @inel oT 
: fat) t ion a) Jeg of 
14 ‘lilaid Mom fom doldw eanidd od T a 
bs bien idalod »ebhael Heol x 
: scree 1 
eviawtli a's » to elodarve 7 
; ul atiw ol emaweh 
1% ui? {in 10? ddw aeodtd gsadT rn 
rel of ; nly elf mid belles vedT 
e titty, to ToGMNe! ofT 
wt! emath «sil at of W a. 
mm aid } viezsvaqxe aonit edt 1 
iq mi w emer ted) at of W . a 
h OF wah m7) Sq slton A 
: iw ie - hot « vedw oA ; 
nine aod al! fool bon hoew vil’ ~ ro aif 
it Satara} ris f sIlar vedT 7 
: tthiws ( 2a” doidw djlea) aT ‘7s 
ssnrenhhines mics eid Phatlua baA (An 
: fiat iMety bhuow anit snd? a) 


199te af stvidn hositedo-<iie6. al 

bateer r9ven TMehde ett orovt baA 

le ‘aotin? wnat teal Ja douet of ; 
frroe avtir 6 enolihoalatiius of? 


boote odw vmuent mid ballan yodT 

00% bee Mut oxttert of bosongO 

eore7ba bigos telt ats tedt wea baad 
o@et Joviley HH dowd ment sheen yetT 
oauniqgs @bhlidw eft To lwiiinwinad 7 at 

anes avoeitaly adi his ot isluual oH : : ; 

basleb adit) ef Jdart ob mantote an 
-basia"l mtd Wetian min bavol ote ow bak r. 
MASING Ki — 


gi ® Ty 7 


of a 


= 
pe 





a 


u 
“198vo" ewe bonang aoliaW 3M. :oloK 
abe Aves 


Pita 















Sa lis b Bi i Uf-—-Gontinued 


: THE LADY OF THE TELEPHONE 


She is more than five feet tall; she is 95°% unmarried, She is neat-——she is quick, 
she is never deaf nor dumb. She is invisible when most effective--she is the girl who 
must be consulted befere you can get the telephone you want. 

Though not much of a mathematician, she deals in numbers: whclesale and retail. 
She adds and subtracts with lightning like rapidity. The Government experts find she 
can answer 225 calls a minute without making a break. Gone are the days when she 
-gave you the wrong number three times, and caused apoplexy at both ends of the line. 
She is Miss Efficiency personified. She is neither indifferent nor impatient; tho she 
deals with many men of many tongues and most irascible tempers. She is a modern 
muracle, and yet is not an automatum. She is just 2 plain human being who fully appre- 
ciates the same courtesy she is required to extend. 

There she sits, this Lady of the Telephone, celm, polite, like Patience on a monu- 
ment, smiling at rage and returning good for evil. From out the ruin and the wreck of 
worlds, comes undistributed her even tones--“Number, please.” Frequently she is the 
bread winner of the home; In times of flood and fire she is a hero; she may be a mother, 
a sister or wife; she has never been treated with the respect that is due her—not fully 
appreciated by those inflated egos who bawl her out if she is one second late. God 
bless her and keep her from harm; She does more to facilitate big business than all the 
congressmen in Washington. 








GOODBYE, MR. HASS Concledin’ these remarks, 
(Charley W. Hass) Which are doubtless shy on tact, 
We are hopin’, Charley Hass, 
When a fellow comes to town— You'll soon be comin’ back. 
To shake your hand and rent a house,In true friendship, and esteem 
And kind’a settle down You rated mounta’n high, 
Among us democrats and others And to tell the truth, it hurts, 
Who iive here on the Sho’; It really hurts— 
When he proves his manly worth, That we-ve got to say goodbye. 
nasures up, by gosh! 

sortie Na vaaes tien go. References: Employes of the C. & P. 


Telephone Co., Salisbury. 
But things will run contraywise— 
Good fellows come and go; 
Our children marry and move away, ¢ 
Life’s a ceaseless ebb and flow. 
So I’m sayin’ once again— 


When a fellow comes to town— MY DOG AND I 

An’ makes his mark among the folks, 

And kind’a settles down— My dog and I are the best of pals; 
We play all through the house 

It dims the brightest day Until the rugs are In a heap, 

To lose his friendly smile, And then we're still as a mouse. 

And say goodbye to fellowship Sure, better pals you’vye never seen 

Tat we had known a while: Throughout the Eastern Shore, 

But what's the use of grievin’ Than me and my dog 

And lettin’ your feelin’s show; That answers to the name—Pluto. 

It’s sentimental maybe, . 

But we are sorry—downright sorry, GLEN CAMPBELL, 

To see a good man go. Aged 10. 404 KE. Isabella St. 


Page One Hundred Fifty Two 





- 






wohl 4 wn fe 
“Yuntinod 















































ad j f ‘ ie 
mmouwsst aur qo TOA1 # ar - 


abigp ei ‘ole—tton af 342 betreinny) RO a ode ist 
onw him ot 2i ofle---svitseto Rom asdvr sidixirrsi 2i ale ath : 
ineyw wore ww role A st el 3aQ 163 shiek 4 path 5 ; 

Jigs bar sleslodw :amimun nr sa one thinitomsdtern @ to Senos danedl T 
ole bast stioqxe vaswtet rion) ofT vibagers oat! gmail dbiw 2roertdes bas ebb 6 de 
ole -nodve aveh od? nu anow Toe & ynistecn Iwodtiw Stic # elina!tSS wlan 
soil ods lo ebno dyed in yesinoye boeecs bas 2onit ni edme geotw orl) 19 eon 
one ods ginsveqmi yon jamolbba ween 4 afd Bei Ese be | yous eailh 
roca sidicect enh Ban exrando vriarmn Yo nom D pene’ esive te 

convd nin © uj et SA? omuasmows omson at oyban, — 
«nets of hatiupsy ai ore yesrues ommae Seid de 


ua » v0 srilog umiss ,abodelsT srl Io ybmd eld aie ode vol 


to gasiw ot sd} uo mrovd Jive sel boog gain bar ager se a 
a3 2] ocle viineupo4 : ahrj aedmut—eane) nov. aad buudnkkibau 2o7Tio2 
sdyocn « od wun ole coor c ef ate nit trae book Yo eens al ;smod ot Yo wonniw | 
eA son-——aed sub af tors tovceo: off Aiea Dena x! taven aed sede ; stiw w ie 
wn) .aisl baox zi ade U wo tek bod odw eogs boskhiai sects yd borates 
xis oll 3 | tilioc? oF tet e6b 412 sremnd mod wd qoed bas veel a 
\ notgoueeW oi conmengan 
4 1 oeedd ‘nifulone 1200 £1 2 TudoOD 
jond me (x gaolidwob oie AoldW ' {aaah .W gota) 
‘ ; ' if e368 ef? , 
cm uot —tW0} of aemo> wolls) # as iw 
, 1s ber! im? saa? al.escod « tadt bas hued wo8Y oAsia. oF 
wit nine 5 boray ooY awob efties a bald bak 
an | ti ins @ : » AA ; eiedio bun alatoowtebh an aanom 
sud sor 3 ;‘od2 of) ao oted evil« 
ocdb aj to w jodT now vinnm ald esvog od aad h 
ideos ed .qe vowasom baA 
oe | % wd? Yo f ’ ; jen oR mii sou of anit raob- Ri 
7 } ileT 
—eoaiwyatinos ant fiw enmids M € 
;02 fate omoo wwolis? heee 
é Awe stout baa voam nothiida ww 
wolt bas dde aeclouses 2 Bet 
—flingn esan ‘niga 
{ tava DOU TH wo) oF aonto> wolle? a ae 
nailer ‘ort aooms Aygo aid sone ee 
‘elo Yo taed of) sie I bose Boh UM —awob aoliice sbatd & 
yoru of} duvoids Ite velq oF 7 
. anil ni oon enor ocr Hay tah teotrlaind off amb 
: snout 6 ec (ite o1ow aods) Dek voltae vlbuott? aid seal er 
a Wis , - along tatied 008 _ @idewallo) of e7dboog Yen bai 
; wied2 mois’ oft Jaodgueitt cotidw 2 owond bad ow uN 
j - " ob uh boa om antT ‘aheaita Yo oun of? eindw det 
. _oigid—omnu olf -Q) meweao Sedt :woda «alleot wot ‘alttef hi 
_ adignm Wnvaoesitee 
elIGSIMAD VAIO .wrtoe ialtawoh—-criot ota 
12 allodaal 4 +0} ft bona ; oA nem boom 6 aon ¢ 





ir 


at 


| Sa lis b Ur Y —Continued 


THE BABY 
5 LILA RUTH 


There were endless months of waiting— 


With mingled pain and joy, 
And the ever-present wonder 
Would you be a girl or boy? 
And then one lovely night 
Into the world you came; 
The weary travail ended— 
And forgotten was the pain. 
You winsome welcome wee one. 
Your first faint cry, 
Told me I’d hold you, darling, 
In my arms bye and bye. 


And then as each day passed— 

How the wonder grew, 
Each day—a leaf unfolding— 

You were up to something new, 
And how I loved your smile— 

And your eyes so big and blue. 
And I’d be waiting—waiting 

For your Daddy to come home, 
To tell him all the nice things 

That happened when he was gone. 


The first weeks of your little life 
Have been the best in mine; 
And I’m praying God to keep— 

And guide you 
With His love Divine. 





MRS. SAMUEL SCHOENFELD, 
Salisbury, Md. 


DR. HARRY C. TULL 


To whom these lines are dedicated 
while he is living. 


The preacher saves our souls— 

The lawyer writes our wills, 

But Dr. Tull, God bless the man, 

He cures our aches and ills! 

With soothing touch and kindly hand, 
He gives us pills of pink, 

And makes us feel before he leaves 
We are not so sick as one would think. 
Old in the game, but young in years, 
He answers every call. 

A dollar here and a dollar there— 
To some no charge at all. 

He does not boast of religion, 

But he walks by the side of right, 
And little children lisp his name 
When they say their pravers at night. 
The preacher saves our souls-—— 

The lawyer writes our wills, 

But Dr. Tull, God bless the man, 

He cures our aches and ills! 


W. C. THURSTON 





WITH THE POETS 


(The Editor gets a few flowers). 


AN APPRECIATION 


We’ve sung the praises of nurses and Docs. 
Of urns and vases and old town clocks, 


And forgotten the poet—-who for many a year— 
In sunshiny rimes brought comfort and cheer, 


Where is the eulogy—-where is the pride 





With love that’s his due—for the old Village scribe. 


S. NORRIS: PILCHARD—— 
Ton We Cl. THURSTON: 


TO MR. W. C. THURSTON 


May the happy way 

In which you say 
To friends—“‘How do you do”! 
May the friendly things— 

The kindly things 
That every day you do— 
Return in joy and happiness 
To bless you every day— 
And bring you joy unending 
For the things you do and say. 


LILLIAN BARD, 
Laneaster, Pa. 


Page One Hundred Fifty Three 


sere chen esi denise cb ncn tnt a pC A tt ne 


en ne cn Rn an te 


stint itiaaeatitbc ts 


a ey 


+br 
iA } aude a4 


OS & 
itm 




















































ay ‘ow S re AN Py \ 
a? 2 8 i - = om 
ADIT ) @nnaw mite - - bd 7 Sade o 
ae _—-" 
bujacibeh via aeott eased? montw oT aalliow Yo eines antheyrien ot 
zntvil at od olldw “ot Baw. pple AC oa ts bay 
; a ye a] 
elnes To ae%ne tefisestq efT ; rod lod Ita. s as btw pe 
xiliw: mo eotten savwael of TT - jigia alotol 200 me 
am. ou) eevid boD eT 1G sue 7oineo WOY BliowW od} at 
a. ' base a {9 100 Bau eH ( —-bebine Ite’ een 
-brrert yiboiad bas dove) paidioos AN iisq ot enw meMogro? f 
nig Yo alllq ao 2ovhy oH 80 sew antontaw senna oY 
esvs9l of oreled Iue] eu seta DOA : 19 jated peut — 
ald? bivow eso ee 4 on 10a oven OW suited .wex blod bl om bioT 
1eeu ol muntoz Wiss en: at BIO evd bos sed ene waar 
SED TIES FEpwen t on + —Hesenq vab dons al*nod! } 
“" it) 18 ‘. ie a p79 yvellob A were sobgow oa ott 
. ig 3h SANend on Saree OF sciblolaw tnel a—enbd ds 
BOBS 10 188 On Reon atl wen gnittemoe 0) qa e108 uot. 
; Aalst Ao.a! SON) Uh 281 @y i iu@ —sitere toy bevel 1 won bad 7 
. oinad ttt ibiido spat bus wid baw gid On eave 100% bal ply 
os a Seen aie iaatniatede a yalitew—suitiew ed BT bal 
. igs alk eediieabas aa crod emou Ob ebbad WOE 4OT © 
; ; ote a ae t are vast sin) sole edt He mid item Tr 
» ate he ioe iain metas. ae suoy aaw od wodw beneqgad JadT 
= 1 unit 3 1wOyY lo aloow Jah oT 
YOTSRAUHT . VW gic mi Jas add need evel 
ee ; : ; goo 6} boD gntivetq m'l hod 
ee ; . voy oblug bod 
. .snivid evot aH dnw 
ALIAY“ZAOHD4 TSUMAS 2M 
hi/ rrudaila2 
PTA AWT AT tehinnee & 
of wol 4 sien Mita efT) 
“UUTADAAWIE ZA. : 
lo) eerie? er! aune ave 
t blo boa soec’ bee sang 40 i 
"Ae asm tol ofw 1999 ef) astiogio? Bahk = 
% bio nolan Nianewd esarm voldeawe al Py 
hbita ads ef of ay -vaolge oni et eid - 
if bio aid) wei—enb eid 2 ledt evel G7 
UAAHOUMT BIHHOA 2 
YAITSSI or WT wo] 
, ° . - AS 
FOTHWV INT 28 OW Ae OT 
* : tay ayed od} tat ; i 
(aa. way dnidw al 4 /* 
: ‘ob voy ob welt’’——ebruitl of a AA 4 
r be =) —aaiid) gibasitt oft ee ; a . 
; eanida tibeis oAT tee 
—-0b soy yab vreve JadT J A 
ansciqqed. Ban vot ul minien ata 
—txb tivva nox enutd oT 
caihnuntl Zot GaN aatiied bas . 
408 ban ob voy agnid) aft wa a 


QH AH VALI 
21 .yedenonad 








a ovtT yt bebavkt anO sya? 
7 : a -—- , a a 
ar 


Sa lis b Uu PU) -—-Continued 


A BIRTHDAY PARTY--i9 YEARS AGO 


Sept. 30th, 1928, the Jate Levin W. 
the usual birthday party—to which 


Perman celebrated his eightieth birthday with 
all his rriends in the city a 


and county were invited. 


A native of the county, he had lived in Salisbury sixty two years, and at that time was 
still active in the business which he established in 1886. 

The poetical tribute to Mr. Dorman, who was loved by everyone whe knew him, was 
written by the village scribe for the occasion. 


It is reprinted by request. 


TO MR. LEVIN W. DORMAN 
Eighty years of righteous living— 
Fourscore years of purpose true; 
Comes a town to do you honor— 
Saying, ‘‘We had need of you.’’ 
Was it storm—you met it bravely; 
Was it trouble—still you smiled. 
Strong you were as men are strong; 
Tender were you as a child. 

Was it service to friend or neighbor— 
When duty called you did not shirk; 
The close of each day saw it filled 
With your share of love and work. 
Fourscore years of useful labor 
Mark each milestone on the way, 
Where you walked so close to God 
That we honor you today. 


Mr. Dorinan died October 5th, 


193%, 


Our debt to yeu can not be reckoned; 
We can only pay in part; 

In affection—deep, abiding, 

From the weilsprings of the heart. 
Come we today as friends and neighbors, 
Ouse by cone and two and two, 

Asking God to keep you with us 

For the good that you ean do. 

Still by precept and example. 

By a life that’s free from guile, 

Stir ovr hearts to great endeavor; 
Cheer us with your friendly smile. 
Down the pathway of the years 

Ve can glimpse a purpose true; 

Not that time would stay its hand, 
But that God had need of you. 


W. C. THURSTON. 





TRIBUTE TO AN EAST’RN SHORE 
MOTHER 


What shall I give thee mother, 
To cheer and bless thee now? 
Stern time has all too roughly laid 
His hand upon thy brow. 
No jeweled coronet can make 
That brow to me more fair 
Yet J would fain some charm bestow 
To smooth the wrinkles there. 


What shall I give thee mother, 
Broad lands and coins of gold? 
Nay, Nay, the precious gift I bring, 

Was never bought or sold. 
Iday it lowly at thy feet, 
~ All wealth, all price above, 


Tis a daughter’s fervent love, mother, 
A daughter’s fervent love. 
ANONYMOUS 


Page One Hundred Fifty Four 


THE TRAVELING MAN 


(Members of the E. S. T. A. and others) 
Here’s to the wife of the traveling man, 
The woman who totes the load; 

And here’s to the marvelous love of her 
For the man out on the road; 

Here’s to the faith she has in him— 

The faith that keeps him straight, 

And here’s to the wonderful love of her 
That some day he’ll be great. 


Here's to the charity in her soul 

That covers his every sin, 

And here’s to the smiles across the miles 
That helps a fellow to win; 

So, here’s to the wife at home tonight, 
The women who carries the load, 

And here’s to the load she has to tote, 


The man out on the road! 
ANON. 


! 
7 — 





vA 






- 7 . ‘ ’ 
— 4A, “ae; in ts oy > 
4 ay. i pat : 


2. taurine —-AY TI G 2 42r\ 


OOA CAAA Ci--TTIHAS ¥ 


dit yebrdnic droog et! heetdsios nea . 


cbstivai s19ew yaw | 


eew om ert se le 
ew fue vrona orlw 


mor 


I & ,fu¢ 


big xtix ols mt ehasel uid 
© .neoy owl yitie yudeile? ai bovil bad od, 
PBT ai Sediilons afl doisdw zean 

saoviov> wd bevel eww od ,nsenel aM op po ead 
noter.co ond 108 oditoe- spelliy ode y 

hic wots boil b nsenot al 































































vid vad sel arly 
lle tboirlw or—vrreg 


Jroupan yd botany 2 


yorodoe od Jou mao wo4,03 dub 100 CAVA LIF VITAL ae vr 
hiagd ul 8G “uo ass evi alt 
1eeh-—nolisete ul —gitivil svostiats lo ere a? der 
Jiaod ed) lo aunitgeliow off mrori Pi yen saoqiug to eiaey ¢ 
odédsisea han ehnsiid 4e vaho) ef sme) ~ronon voy ob a3 Bwe! ne 
wt ban ow) | 0. Xd sa ‘not lo besn bad aye 
mai oy qeed oF bod Saidad >tievard 3 tom poe tends T i an 
> woe tad! boog «ft 109 befima voy Hite—siduort | 
hae tqee0n Yd hie nove 832 VOM 2a Few OY one 
14 ied? otti «a +A _ | -bitdo ese got stow % 
“a Of alt 1 ytrey sitet iodfgien to Bbielt) of éolvi4ae here 
fi i) tu0y Aw ep to6dD : int la Jon bIb nee bellan Woh w 
tnq 20) wwod] A1A 3) wae usb domo lo seole eff 
uy) ened R oeqin ‘mo OW y10w bas ovel lo o1ada Tay Mp 
bras tale ) sly Jaitll 10K sodal (wiees lo a1n0% 9t07 a 
» beeu bad bod tad) ef _ .tew of) no enotesticn done, ; Salhi 
boi) af aeols os bedlaw voy 1084 
HT | .W abo) toy waod ow 5 
eg - 
ee r ' 
om 
THONS FZATALA ZA OTF aTyA aT 
} TARY we. : : NANTOUW >. 
(erdio t r lo rad) onion aed? evia I iede temy 
woo oad! aeold boa waede of 
tect ’ aw 1 o} satel bial widsecs oof (fa aot oa) o : 
{i «a tt ofve aameaw aff wood vd) ronu hard >, 
124 Yo aval levioea oof ») e'eaad bak otew ten Jacors helew t oF 
i wo tne poem edt ie ‘inl eto0r oc oF word tae a 
, ev le diia? of)? oF aoa wwiesd tvinds o1dce cial Dinow th 7 
fitaine i dosti diiel of T eve? aeliuiivw sd? dioode | sate 
vor le “vol [tirebaow i} a) coved bas m 
faorn ad Il'ed web sivoa indiT 19d som oot ovig I Made 4 7 
‘biog Yo eslos ben eins! feo” 
fee tod al vilieds ad! of sonal -witivd 1 itig svolseig oft .tev ws 
rie vaeve elf eteven Salt -blos to Iduwod tevan en% Af 
asllin 4A? a40" fivea ort) of waved Buk 1001 7? ta ¥bwol 1 veh 


oo} vroliol « anfed talT 
bdipianns ta Shw ofl oF «aged oe 

Deol 4) seltiae odw qsntaw oT 

stot of aud oe beo!l off? of sa7ed Gad 
'beor off no too hain OAT 

MOZA 


radtem “val Inmav1el 2 











27oda colt a Witeve 1k 
“midaneb ‘al’ 


ral Maevtsl e'9) a 


RVOMUTLO“VA 


Continued 





Salisbury 


THE POETRY OF THE SHORE 


The Eastern Shore Poets; their name is legion. Many are writing exquisite verses; 
others are living their poetry; a few are preaching it; some are weaving it into the day’s 
work—skillfully mixing with pots and pans—and pills and potions, the poetry of un- 
selfish service. 

Poetry is not a narrow restricted term, it is broad as the universe and its ramifica- 
tions are limitless. It is subject to a thousand interpretations. Not all of it is confined 
to the mere riming of words. Sweet, wholesome and pure, it is found in the lives 
of mothers—in the gentle grace of unsullied womanhood. 

The whole Shore is a poem—majestic in its grandeur—rhythmic in its sweep, all 
embracing in its beauty, and musical as the harps of heaven. Don’t turn up your nose at 
poetry; look for it in the wash on the line—in the curve of a road, in the tangled mass 
of ruins that was once a home, in the blue of Maryland’s skies, and the love of an 
Eastern Shoreman for his native heath. 

Look, and you will find it in the hearts of a home-loving people—surging, throbbing 
day after day as the waves beat upon the shore. Tune your heart to the lilt of its melody, 
soar with the lark and lift your soul in exaltation, grateful for the blessings that are yours, 
and feel at peace with God who made a world so fair. o> We Coch. 


WHEN I AM AT GRACE ARTHUR WARD 
Grace M. E. Church at Salisbury 
, Arthur dropped out the other day— 
When I’m at Grace—that sacred shrine— fo take a long, long rest; 
Oh Thou, whom men and angels laud, Game to the end—the same old smile. 
I hold communion joy divine, “Bye, folks,” he said, “I’m goin’ west.” 
With Thee my savior and my God! 
To dwell beneath her hallowed dome— 
On earth I ask no sweeter place; 
Somehow I feel I’m nearer home 

When I’m at Grace! 





He didn’t leave a million— 
Except in friendship’s gold, 
But that was his in heaping measure— 
All that the heart could hold. 


When I’m at Grace Thy holy word age ; 
I hear from lips touched by Thy truth; The world’s apostle of sunshine— 








Such preaching as I have there heard Good humor and wholesome cheer, 
Will save the gray-head and our youth. He ieft a smile on every face, 
Her blessed walls attuned to prayer But never a sign of a tear, 
By those who run the Christian race, 
Will breathe a benediction fair He laughed at life—and with it, 
When I’m at Grace! But none ever called him yellow; 
He was always a boy—and friend and foe 
When I’m at Grace Thy alter rail Knew him as a regular fellow, 
Doth flood my soul with memories sweet; 
Oh what a host here took the trail Arthur left us the other day, 
That leads from sin to Jesus’s feet! But his boyish laugh will ring 
That precious thing once bathed in tears—Far down the years—till the balm of time 
Where sinners first of heaven taste, Takes from death its sting. 


May it remain my heart to cheer 


5 © ' x : 
When I’m at Grace: There must have been in a brighter world, 


A child heart Jone and sad, 
And they needed Arthur’s laughter 
To make the little one glad. 


When I’m at Grace dare I describe 
7Each scene, and give to Thee its name; 
Nay, I would fail if I but tried, 
N gue can tell——my pen is lame. 
eer ae Fe ee her aeeiee pray Arthur dropped out last week— 
_ ae aed Tas j . 7 on . 
Her sins, Oh God, do Thou erase; Wearing a smile to the end;" 
Lord “ast l’ll feel Thy power always In a fairer land—-where laughter lives 
hy When Pm at Crace! ; We'll meet him around the bend. 
< T « . 


H. NORRIS WATSON. W. C. THURSTON. 


Page One Hundred Fifty Five 


SZ 
a 





_ 
ra a " 
errr sdatl 


. 5 " 
. BS, “3a0H@ SAT eee oe T 


jewersv steiupes gnitive ae yon nora! a omen sinds waro0TT i oe = 
vyeb od} oni Ji yniveow win conor jh yaidoeniy ane wate 1AISSY SiS 
nu to yueaq oli 2noing bas alliq hae-ensq bas oq sive Hbbed 






~~ fe 
































































‘ 
A ree | 


-exheua aii bos sevavine ods ac bord 2b 37 Lani baiiteat worn & 
bongtrive 2) % Yo lle 0 2qOUGIsIqIaINt hntenorts & of reoylure awd. 
_ esvil ora oi braved a si soma bas onoazslodw stave rhnow Yo unit 2 
.boodaamow tei flescs 3 lo sorry shndg odin > 

He ,qoswe en nt aedtyd)—quobperg ati os sbeslem- mooq & ti stodd alodw sd 


i wen woy qu aun fret! .svesd 1 ai ed sti) 28 lanham bar Cuasd ai ai gai He a9 
veo! bolaast ort aj .beor 2 to sytus Sap Aion oes no. dena ol}. i ti wi doal. ; es 
: ae i sval 3ft3 Lens Pa a hasinah io Sui ods it “omit & yh 2eve rors anit 
dicod svinen git 20 aenvmod2 revstes 
tj videh mn? .% raya? aie of rave mT or h 20 whiers! orl} mt tr ban thiew uoyv bar toed) 
.Vbsalor ta sel iN ory Woy Sn, FIOM os Haq 3: od Paes Ld ols 26 vah vals | ‘ 
“21004 216 Jers eure ; luting MNeivsliers a: lwo wy ruil bee del adds daiw 3 
P i me Ww iki OF bhra ¥ ¢ rhe Tl or lve | Lae 2 dire TI69] 3% feat a 
{ - 7 : 
GHAW waiersis Ihe Th UA 1 4a a 
Cu(-ile@ ye dowet) 2 I ead - 
——s i heqqoth tednA ; 4 . me 
oT anil 38e Joti1—eaetD Ja m't aw a 
~~ t emad hu ‘oagt« ban mant modw .wodT oO 
* pie ‘4 toh. .ova” ulvib vol nolmumaos blof 1 
‘hoo vat hie tolvea ein sodT aie 
[ ebih of ~—e11oD bowollad 144 ieusd lowk oF, 
i] - 4 “y { it 
. ree a beoatl: ‘would i00Ws On aes T divse aQ, 
ap of tevsed am’t feet I wodonted 
“yt a ‘aoe Jn al ced W 
.. biow Wod vit ead sa ar] aodW 
\ 0% W371) ¥ sh (4 bedouod eqil mor sa9d ¥ 
ne , i sed} aved | ag guidose.g dome 
’ jel oH is . : ” whe” a 
“ ’ O¢ THe bas fsod-yary od) ovine TW 
! a’ otf NG PANG OF be: iuiie wlisw beaeold + H 
oo88 eet edt ont odw oeod) xo 
oh tial wolisibensd a eiesid ul a 
i hethes + non taf ‘out 8 wl aad » 
! t G f It anw oH 
. # en mid weed int sont ‘a iT aomd ja al hod’ 
‘Jnewa seriom tle thee cor bootl dia 
i) we Piel worded Liaw! off} ‘devo sted teod & innew ¢ rr 
wat w gue! dalvod «id 108 - ‘Sool #4ve8l of ale matt sbaol san 
; Py A ri of! cwob 126s! a! belied snee anidt evotleeiq yas § 
matte att Hine , soda +iee) aeveodl lo teyf zenths wre 
tood> OF dinod Yar alamo 10 ye al 
birew MJIftaind «6 on! coed avad Lapagh | AT roomy 7 aa ms t aoa Wi ms 
) ia ; - i anul J i. : & 
inied candinh doteek Ge odivonsh J ota samt) Ja\ a’) ned 
i: Pic agiae ‘ip oot asta oe omen ett oodT of vig bnew ba%5e if wn 
teaia iy will wu ’ th holy tod 1 +7] ttn? tivow bd y, 


v4 } wel ef aoq Tose wks snRih 
—Awen teal ito boqaoh awates trig 1 won vel Beoid Jodie we ; 
bus iff o§ climes a pane ;mee vortT ob .bof dO .antie wht 


eovll vatduwal stedw —~ hata read s al evewta THrI0q “aT feo) i'l jnavg fh io 
beed of! HNanorn wid toom ov ‘weet? da atl aodw 
MOTARUHT .O Ww Moaraw aiaaon any 
j 


ow] yti® bovbnutt 900 ome 
’ 


Snow Aill 


Snow Hill, as the county seat of Worcester County, has many distinguishing features. 
Taking its name from a division of London, England, it is significant that there is no 
hill in the whole section, and very little snow. Herbert Kaufman, a well known writer 
who formerly spent his summers at Ocean City, said that he had traveled the world 
over, but he had never found a street with the atmosphere of Federal street in Snow Hill. 

ane quiet peace and the enticing beauty of this shaded avenue, flanked by broad 
lawns and masses of flowers, can not aie put on paper. Snow Hill is no young upstart 
flirting with every commercial traveler. The dignity of age is hers, and the pardonable 
pride of a noble ancestry. The year of her birth was 1642, lant ake déartedvher frst party 
dress—to receive her charter and be made a port of entry, on October 26th, 1686. 

The first plat of Snow Hill was made by virtue of an Act of Assembly of the State 
of Maryland, November 2nd 1792. This plat showed 12 streets, which are the principal 
streets today. By Acts of Assembly of 1706 Commissioners and a Town Clerk were 
provided to govern the town, and certain building restrictions adopted, including the 
provision that a House should cover 400 square feet of ground, and have at least one 
brick chimney. 

The Act also provided that each possessor of a lot taken up and built upon should 
pay “One penny sterling per annum to the Right Honorable Proprietary and his heirs 
forever,” and further—that “no person living within the town shall on any pretense, keep 
‘any swine or geese within the town limits nde: penalty of ten shillings.” Thus Snow 
Hill got her start in life and set up housekeeping with a clean sheet. ‘Berit said. to. her 
credit that no breath of scandal has touched her fair name from that day to this. 

Her history is replete with many changes which can not be recorded here. Calm 
and serene in her setting of stately trees and lovely flower gardens, Snow Hill is essentially 


a city of homes. 
“T like to live in a little town 
Where the trees meet over the street, 
And you wave your hand and say ‘‘Hello”’ 
To every one you meet. 
I Jike to stop a minute 
Outside a grocery store, 
And hear the kindly gossip 
Of the folks moving in next door. 
For life is interwoven 
With the friends you like to know, 
And you feel their joys and sorrows 
As they daily come and go. 
So I’m glad to live in a little town 
And care no more to roam, 
For every house in a little town 
Is more than a house—it’s home. 


SUNSHINE MAGAZINE. 


” 


And that is Snow Hill, the Snow Hill of yesterday and today. Her people are kind and 
courteous; they are neighborly—they teke time to live. The homes are not for show, but 
for plain unpretentious living that makes for happiness. The venerable old Church— 
All, Hallows, is kept open for visitors. An antique shop awaits the collector—where 
grandfather’s clock still ticks merrily away. The shade trees invite you to linger, and 
the flower gardens actually smile—es if they were trying to say “Howdydo.” Snow Hill 
has her Lae rosy cheeked girls are finished poems, and no itinerant scribbler would 
dare attempt to improve upon the lines. 

There is no fuss and feathers in Snow Hill; no one will rave over your coming or 
going, in this cultured community the refinements of life are taken for granted, and the 


2 


stranger is welcomed with an easy grace characteristic of a hospitable people. 


Page One Hundred Fifty Six 


ec 


See 





a: 
vee 4 - 
a oy 
= ao « 























































2 


f 





; ° 74. ae 
oo. ee 


eh a 

2 oH F ' 
aowits griidehagane wer endl vs avi wor oft 2 
on zi oer) sort inmoitingiz ei 1 Lnéigad soba do aonivit enor 
whw mond sw s nerdiesA nodheH owonm sini! yw bne noir: 4 
how oli belover? bard sd Jedd bine .yiD) azsdO Se arora zich niq2 yhomta 
HiH wan2 ai i022 lersbs4 jo srodqeamnte old duw tom 6 bagel oro ty dod 9 c 
beend vel boanel .ucevtbobnde «vt Ge Tuna yobs ont. bas son9q iup of T 
neequ gavey oa & [ih wend oqe@ ao me od ton nk zrwol ror one an 
aidsnebicg ott bre 212d 2) ye to yiieylb of? .valevenr inion. yO73 duet Ur 
yneg tet 19d bennol) ore bag SHO) eeve Aid tor Yo vey ol T _yutesoae | re lo sh 
0! Oo wedo1O0 ne .fuas te neq © shen od bas weds sell Seis oer 

2832 orl) to yldmeeA to oA na lo supe yd shen aw WA w6a2 Io iekq sat oT 


” 
» 


leqianing ods sae dotthe 2h £1 Gowods tely aidT OU bintisdensiot sbeebyrel 
mow chal avoT « Lae eononemmeD BOT! to (idiveeA, to eA yA Len 33 2393 
1) porbuloni .bstqehs enonmimen geibliod aistiey bae .awos Srl nrovoy of bebive 


1 Rel te sved bre .baverg to ts) Saupe 00F asv0> blbore sevoH « teats a pied 


- 
~ 
re 


F 


: sd 
hivorle moqu iliud bas qu aodes tol @ Yo rorsncq dose tnd? bobivong ols galt adel 
al bas wuenegorl sidcionoH sbgiAl ott os mune ix grihee yaneq saQy 
; Hesle nvrot ot aniltiw wares nogoy on” sadtt—rodirul bre “a997 
won? wudT “anaillide nov to! wleneg vebew eimil aves oft nithiw soy 20 oniwé yn 
rod oo . I & iw griqesdaued au ise bo oil ni me ood done 
mott > v tint tod bod vw 2nd icbnesw Yo Arend on tert tabs 
; ) ibitty esyrads yacm, dave stalqar a corid, 5 
‘ : f i | 


WPL fy) who ithe eau visikR to RAIN 2344 ai a > » it 
“uwo) alfiil » at evil of adit * 
sf) y8Ve ain ano od) ete VW 
‘ne bua bord tteoy evaw uevV biuwA 
jong? ue’ ene yvave oT 
vila a qol* of sat T 
stole Tricot & obizinO 
qieeon Vibes 6d? 1n6d bad 
tcoh txen a! we ' aHio? of) 1O 
mrTowr inl al atil to 
i oj 1 oov eabweii! os 177 
worTtase bigw ev tied? (903 por ba A 
o bag otros viin® wort? aA 
awe! oi «of oi of bala ml 08 
1607 Gf eieet oa efa5 hbitA 
avo) “fill a al anwod Tisv79 wot 
“tmod a3i-—sanad « nant e1om el 


SVIRADAM SuIHaKnue “4 


bne bard oe olqooq oH .yebos bog yvelonsy to (HH won ory HH wond ae is f 
tod .warls wl jon nt eormod odT yovil ap om she yd —yhodrdyisn bar oes UG Daas 
tnd? blo slderonsy ofT zesniqand to! 2edusn tndi goivil ovina aitge 

yohw—saisaiios of} etigpwe anode Supiinn aA .0teiv Vel naqe Iqod et ewoll ae 5 
l, tage! of vor stint 2001 Sbede oT —vewe vlinrorn esis lite doalo 2‘ rors 
uh wan “vobybwoli” ee or gain naw rit hi 2o—alinne qleuton ensbiey » 
bivew widdin sextant an ban ghee bedeait oe ahig emt rorl—ety 
200d ac} none rouge op a 
”% Yio auev 130 ove Nin sno on SM won tit potent bane on ai 
20? hme bxaery wl modet ne iil to eemoniios ode eimunnes bavusles td 
aiqory sidsiqeod & to simnsinerels ery yeas ao Miw beanplg 

‘ ee 
af Sa age 


ii, = : a 





edad 


Sn OW gee) iM Sed Shae 


MAPLETON 


The Garden Clubs of Maryland concluded their fourth pilgrimage May the 8th, 
b23/, at the hospitable home of Misses Winifred and Nellie Payne in Snow Hill. That 
old English settlement, with its shady streets and spacious lawns, is in very truth the 
garden spot of the Shore. “Mapleton Gardens,” is a scene of bewildering beauty, which 
is graciously shared with neighbors and friends, by the two lovely women who own the 
delightful old home known as “Mapleton.” 

This roomy mansion was built in 1881 by George S. Payne, father of the two sisters 
who are the present owners. Mr. Payne was President of the Commercial National Bank 
for many years, and at the time of his death, which occurred in 1927, at the advanced 
age of 92 years, he was the oldest bank President at that time in the United States. The 
maternal grandfather of the Misses Payne was Irving Thomas Matthews, the first Cashier 
of the First National Bank of Snow Hill—who also owned “Sunnyside,” across the 
street from Mapleton. Mapleton was named for the old Matthews home at the “Old 
Furnace,” not far from Snow Hill. 

Mapleton is elegantly furnished with antique furniture—which includes a mahogany 
desk, and a French bed more than two hundred years old. Many valuable oil paintings 
adorn the wails; one of these is a portrait ot Mr. Payne, painted by a well known French 
artist. . 

Mapleton was built on a part of the original “Ingleside,” tract, which is now known 
as “Box Haul.” It was on this site that a battalion of Federal troops was stationed in 
1861 under the command of Major Dukes. It is said that their presence in the community 
caused much inconvenience, and aroused the indignation of a large number of Con- 
federate sympathizers in the town. 

Jt is interesting to note that the first station of the famous “Southern Underground 
Railway,” was situated on the bank of the Pocomoke river about eight miles below Snow 
Hill. Miss Winifred Payne tells an interesting story of the slaves who were found on 
one of her father’s ships—trying to make their escape. There is another story relating 
to the old colored coachman, who is still living at the age of 105. He had been a former 
minister and was fond of using big words; one day Mrs. Payne remarked upon the 
delightful weather, and Uncle William promptly rephed—“Yes mam, it am sure nufl 
balmy over head, but it ain’t so salubrious under foot.” 

The flower garden at Mapleton beggars description. Two fine southern magnolias 
stand at the entrance to the path which leads to the pool and the pergola, which 1s 
covered by American Beauty Ramblers and Thousand Beauty roses. Embedded in the 
walk that leads to the pergola, are two large millstones which came from an old Virginia 
water mill; these are said to be more than two hundred years old. Beyond the pergola ts 
a semicircle formed by shrubbery, in which is placed a comfortable seat from which 
one may view the panorama of beauty that meets the eye. To the east of the pergola ts 
the more formal section of the garden. Here one may see many rare shrubs and trees, 
including coral berries—or Indian currants; wild plums, Japanese Magnolias, Mimosa 
trees, the ginko tree, or a maiden hair fern. In addition, there are many native plants, 
such as the crepe myrtle and a screen of native pines. 

Another attractive feature is the small formal rose garden which is cleverly arranged, 
and many symmetrical rows of jonquils and daffodils. Several large black walnut trees 
are found here and there, and these have an interesting story all their own. The nuts 
from which they sprouted were picked up near Washington’s tomb many years ago by 


WwW 


Mr. Payne, who planted them at Mapleton. They thrived, and several of the small 


Page One Hundred Fifty Seven 





a eae Oa 





—_— 
@ 4 


a. 


ri? Is: 





































i 
blo 
mi payed .2 297690) ved TPA? ai sind eey noviKin Yon edT 
tne] Inno feimemmoD od) Yo sasbiewh sew savtd al avo InaeNG oft ne ¥ 
beane y br “ely 1G Sel m bovis if) foudw ineb aid ja Sau oth In bas 21 B9Y you 2 1 
AT te3¢ bere!) ods ni omni terls 26 terse dacd moblo si gow of eimsy £2 to 

idee sett ort 2wortcld econodT univ equ orev Ll ese2ilh orl? io todiclbagyg feevry nN 
om atenon “obeyanv2?” benwo os atw—IH wane to Ane lsnoneVi si odt Be 


ar 


d 1a one roimcM blo oly sot Benen sow noriqa .nersiaaeM mont in fe 
TEL wore mort wi joa "s0an ee 

nore o estu ividlweoy ting wypling din bodeimul ybntysls “i rorsiqald Al 
anion fio sider mali bio 249 boiband ov mont mora bed doand « bas ob 


(ant nwond How & vd bosmieg ved AM IG timinoy 5 ef seeds to ano sellew orks wie om 
: RE j 

_ Tanrgne s47 io meq 6 no thud 2ew notsigeM - ee 
Douoiale enw “ny isiobed to noilenind ao Ved? oie eid) ao zew af “lush 20” s 
tnénos ot mi s9e3eo1q Tiordy ted) biee gi M1 zsadyC] soiel4 to Baemenes ocd webay fa 
I lo tedmwa onal 6 | coyibat 20% Levon bas sonsiasvaeont doum bee 
4 ort of mowiceqenye simabsl 

worse? orlt do jet afl) Jarl) como} gnitesrsony 2i M1 

uote 19/7 somo welt lo Anad sy no besmutie aow " vavliad 

cl 'o Ook goiter ne eller saved bobiniW ail dit 


; yeseo wo? odnr of yetiviuti—eqide a’redsed y9d- Jo see” 

Th t bail 5H 45 oy 16 yeayel lige as arly yneredoeos bavelos blo odie 
i i ao sel *! unvo jo bnol sew bas sieinis 7 

bevel . MW stontT bine’ oAieow lylsdye b 

wo! yoore alendule oe Tria TK iu, bed v0 yenfed 
nor , wT Tt Veo cage aanlgelA 19 oncy weoll ofT 
nHowiog od) he M “id on abe botel # Hy sd ot Soman ody in b 
, oth bocevrodT baw eekjmed Yurel nconomA td bx 

» tlovel wuseilun opal ws mg legac ot of ebnsl gneds ofl w 
Voloywq ad? baoysll ay Loarbnud aw) aids oon od oF bine a6 seoils <llira v9 fl 
laeehw ' EMGiinGds & 22] 4 AoW 7 ‘durele yd homo) dori g 


» 


j , | oh} te geo oc) oT 249 4 eto00n antl! vinnesd jo LATO by ul) WOLY Ysa no. 

' Viti UU Me YnKA y3y (on 200 set uolens g 213 Jo noite learn 20m 4 hy 
wilt agilongelt seoneges| emulq blew epee’ nbal 1— eed eos goibulsgi, 
Minit) dren ion TA ls rie i skye ql a7 earl nobeuen ¢ ™ 201) odncy wh ou 


27a Sian to oie ke bne lovee mysID uly en dow 

‘ 6 Grrieks 8 darnvw tolreg eon lea) ene ors al NU, SHewE ratbonk : | 
er) iuniew Auld sal love 2hibeeh bac éhupnoy te een inant torunye vaen ban 
tind ot) avo volt The for yutesieal ae sre wots bos ids bas mod bawoi ou 
‘iy youn dined e comnite Vl Yeon qu lealvig ow betuorye yor doit mow 

inre od) Yo lessee tue ovads yal T -haralgelh Mu aot bogioly pilve s wy aM 


id ita 










74 ous 


— 


tieas 


Vy OOt He A heey 
Se 


U 
fo ole i 
° ie 
: 


1 


ru je 
’ 


2 





7 


Rien NF bastinuHt oO oye 
A ae e 7 7 


_ - 





Sn OW Ai ak See 


trees were sent to Snow Hill, England by a former Reztor of All Uallows Church. 
Nothing was heard of them for severel years, but recently word was received that one 
of them had borne fruit for the firs¢ time. 

Thus Snow Hill, Maryland, and Snow Hill, England, were linked together by a 
walnut that came from the estate of the Commander in Chief of the American Revolution. 

It is certain that one can not find anywhere a more heppy combination of a beautiful 
garden, a perfectly appointed home, and a mere cerdial reception than that found at 
Mapleton. One is reluctant to leave this Howery bit ef Eden, and say goodbye to the 
gracious hostesses whose charm of manner 1s unexcelled. 


ELMER F. RUARK, Salisbury, Md. 





“GABE” PLEADS GUILTY IN SNOW HILL COURT 


Judge Spence was presiding at the trial of an old darky for selling liquor at a local 
“vendue” or sale, in Worcester County. When asked to plead guilty or not guilty, the 
old darky exploded in appeal to the presiding Judge, “Cos’ I’se guilty, tain’t no use 
for me to say that I ain’t ‘cause the Judge thar knows I’m guilty, for didn’t he come 
right up that carriage house loft and pay me good money for a dipper of my liquor, and 
didn’t he say, “Gabe, that’s darn good whiskey for contraband.” 

The Judge didn’t bat so much as an eyelid. He pronounced the sentence $10.00 
and costs, then turning to the clerk, he said, “charge this to my personal account, Mr. 


Clerk.” 





MY “MENAGERIb” OF FLOWERS 


Do you know that in my garden 
I’ve a ‘‘Menagerie”’ of flowers— 
Just the nicest kind of animals 
To make glad the summer hours. 


They’re all so nice aud docile, 
Of them you’ll have no fear. 
Come and take a walk with me, 
You’ll find them very near. 


There stand TIGER lily, Sentinel, you see, 
And by its side is FOX glove, stately as can be; 
Snap DRAGONS, royal white and pink, 
COW slips bending low, 
RABBIT larkspur all around, 
With colors bright aglow. 
Many other ‘'sprises my garden has for yeu. 
Come and take a walk with me 
And I will show you thru. 
MRS. RICHARD L. HEWARD, 
Snow Hill, Md. 


Page One Hundred Fifty Eight 








4; re * 


a \) 


~ aes . >. <o ened 
| feu, Ah ‘ae 


tounitne— fae 









































te i ahs lA jo ror2fl nab & i baxigad Mi 
get Q bovis esw biew neon tid aise? fase mors te 

ae mn cen otly yor + 3 sk 
a yd torlispor betoil sre darigad iH wood bar bowler | 
novulovsil nesimoms, oi adkas wi mi dalsaaens mo. ot jo Bses ( 
luinwunes c lo aovernidrtias =A nega @ atvevae bo ton as ides 
te bavel ged? ands noisqoan eibros sont ¢ bne mod berhiaqqn 
ot o9 s¥dbooy que bane .x2obd lo sed Yrewolt uidr Srest oi inessulsy zt on 


bolltsday ei <onnetht to ovuds seorw searreey h-> 


bl: penedetle? .AAAUS..4 AA 


‘ 








TAVUOO JJTH WoOV?2 VA YT ITJO @GAa “SEGAD" 
levol a.3n youpi priilice 301 gb bh hia me %o leret sett fe onibresy tew snitsqe, ee 
os , 1 vila iq ot badee nodl’// nwo IsiertoW hi ne 70 “SHR 
ditt 1 20” .sylul ge | str oF lnoqqe ai Lebaiqzs be 
59 b un ov] ewoud wad? 5 sit sauna’ Joie 1 tard yee OF 
bin MED ral Youor boug cr yeoq boa sol saved NHI tar q 
. 10> ti vodety boty teh eed edn” .yerr d #a 
: tt Lacon HE bileys : ; founr os tod Tabib aghut 3 : 
mprais” L .Avolo ol) oF gaitiies oot eee 
z * 


204 7 O81 WO “AINSDSLZAALY Yi 


fr ‘wi vt Jed) wood vey off 
rowan “eliopaneM* Bp ev'l 
stercian to fetd hesota off peut 
fod vemuiuw od? bely eden of 


.S@iiseb bua eota oa Us ov redT 

j ‘pgen’ sted I vow atentt 10 
om dafiw vlaw ida} bas sure 

: en vIa¥ meds bat aeacr 


uot Jjuaimet <1 ASOT baaie o19dT on 
ee viuiade Seelea ZO at ofies oli vd OMA : 
! Analg, bite Stidtw iar ZOOKNG qaene aT i 
: wa iM sasbood eqité Arey iil 
; boven tia vegetal THE yy 
os : wil ae Wight ssatas fy rH ‘ 
. uot 10) ead webIGe vid seeinaa’ ree Yel 
ow diw dinw # otal bos oi0D " 
. wids wow wode Illw TF OnA ’ 
SIRAWGR .1 ONANDIA BAe ‘i Pad 
bi. JM woue 





Sn OW SACL IE fim ret 





ALL HALLOWS EPISCOPAL CHURCH 


All Hallows Church, which stands in ancient dignity on an eminence, corner of 
Church and Market streets, in Snow Hill, is the oldest, most permanent, and most signifh- 
cant landmark left standing today of the early lite, history, and civilization of Wor- 
cester County, on the seaboard side of the Maryland colony. At the time its construction 
was authorized, in 1748, there was only one brick building in Snow Hill. 

A unique feature in connection with All Hallows is the location of the bell. Weaken- 
ing timbers forced the removal within recent years, of both bell and belfry. Two staunch 
pines which grow near the walls solved a problem. A stout beam was placed across their 
branches and the bell was suspended there. For the years since it has remained in that 
shelter, its mellow tones unimpaired by changes of weather. The original levy for the 
building of the Church was 80,000 pounds of tobacco. 

Touches of the older days are still evident—notably in the memorial tablets upon 
the western wall, and in far greater measure the Bible which Queen Anne presented to 
the parish, which is carefully preserved in a glass case near the door. Great trees flank 
it, the solemn beauty of the pine pre-eminent among them. Over the walls of brick, 
mellowed by age, an English ivy has flung 2 protecting mantle, the shoots of which were 
borne by a loving friend from the mother country. The busy tides of life touch lightly 
the quiet beauty of the old town on the Pocomoke, but the old Church stands today a 
mute but eloquent witness to the eternal truth which it has so faithfully upheld. 


Berlin and Snow Hill are just fifteen miles apart, but the Purnells in Berlin are not 
related to the Purnells in Snow Hill. Both are old and honored names—prominent in 
the annals of a proud county. But, strange to say, Purnell in Snow Hill is pronounced 
just as it sounds—accent on the last syllable. In Berlin Purnell is pronounced Purn'll, 
accent on the first syllable, and wee be unto the man who accents the last. In Snow Hill 
Berlin is pronounced Berlin—just as it is spelled, accent on the last syllable. But, lo 
and behold! when you get to Berlin the pronounciation changes to Burl'in, accent the 
first syllable hard, and soft pedal the second. A rose by any other name would smell as 
sweet—in any other place, but not in Berlin and Snow Hill. 

It is assumed that these attractive little towns—neighbors and friends, are strictly 
within their constitutional rights in deciding pronounciations to suit themselves. Eastern 
Shoremen usually do that anyway, and it is doubtiul if any effort will be made to 
harmonize the pronunciation differences between Berlin and Snow Hill at this late date. 


Page One Hundred Fifty Nine 


le 


ee 















































ia : ae to 


hon rtinod——4 


» 
, ¢ 
af. 
Y as 
a ‘ 
> 
£ way, ‘ 
— 
. : 4 .. 
s “ 
f ‘ 
‘f 
| 
< 


Ee 


HOAUHD ..ATOD2I9a 2VW7 OTSA. .LIA 
IO? tenis as no yiagil yaowne ab ecbente doulw_ ,dpud) evollgki uA 


1 nom bret rorti “i m3 lo oi er ANH word ni tise iyhalt bas dotegs oy 
sol io noiasilitis | snorid oh! vias od to wher yatboum tol Aiembasl ang 


moasoti Te _ ry 3/ nol Lankvrsfh «s4 vz losodese oll oo “doug ¥ 299 
it . ii i] doixd one vieo ecw stad) SFL nit dasnodus & %; 
law i be ly py olleld WA. dirw coitozonnos oF sites Dupin A rs 
ow'l lod rood Jo .21esy fosesr : w Invoorn ont boxtol 2edmi gat 

. , ¥ ; { , 4 ‘ teeing bos la es sri 198 WOE doidw a bof 

Vw bobnoqeue 2ow Hed ods bne zedzasw 


: lo zopreeid w nisgmiay eno wollorn 23i ral de 
pedos jo ebm: 06.0% eaw drudD os to goiblit " 
oo | 1 pA td —Inebrys ifr é » roblo oli to 2 wbuoT _ 
1 won) doubw + t 9) 9 nev ist abbas dlaw maow ¢ 
{ } Weave } ori + Sas shy & ot bevisesny villi 2f aide ‘ane 


mi NIU AG jy oily 1o Yue ! omsloe od) 


: { oO zio i ; ham & teptiitl zatl yvi deaths nod A ye eel bevroll 
i poves stil ; yeu fiw welion 34) oil berroand garvol & vd : od 
a ebnanw dow i blo ads med cdormool add ne awer ble ars to (uBed Joi iy 
biodqu ylividiet o: zal mn doubw avant lneras od! @) eeontrw Nispols wud 3 7 
jon wie welyotl ai alloca] ol) sud .neoe eo aan it uj ot HH woad bras aihsd 
Ni InQuMIowtp—r9N bnoned ban | ne dott Jhtl won? nt ello odi of bots a 
Po os0t3 vy et ileh4 fone fit “ow @ vot Lars 2 Jue iia buon} & to dnann + 
Ifow beonweama 2 Home oholl vl- ieihy fé el ol! no tarne—ebnuce Ji 26 Ret 
ls word al eel sdt atreoce ow none ort ofnaw af cow bar idellye sm ody no stese 


ol path = oldailye yes 11 10 Ina ,beflede at ti ee weejp-nibroll haonunorarey ca] niliot 
oi toe .afhwil of 2yast conteavenor alt adil ad tag noe asitw ‘hloded bas 
76 Ione bluew omen idte yon vd wor A mibnesse ode int or bas ied aldallye 3 
JH wow bad nihotl ni joa tod erula vo4lto se bie Tee 
thank 2g 2beand ber neddyian-~<aetes obnil ove sek t0dt hommes ts 7 
overs 2otlered) fue of enor WMT uebivob i zulyn Introdmnritatind ve 
ot abom of ew nets ge Ub luixlveb a it bak -gewyan Seth ob 9 
ch ota cul) se Tb won? bae nihot neowied eonnelith panenons 


_Y 





“i ane aon 


‘i. > 


oO ane 








St. Mic A Ge Pie Tontinued 


AMELIA 3. WELBY 


Mrs. Amelia B. Welby, nee Coppuck (1819-1552), daughter of William Coppuck, 
one of the Old Defenders in the Battle of North Point against the British in the War 
of 1812, was born in St. Michaels, Talbot County where her early life was spent. When 
she married she moved to Kentucky. i 

Her= poem, “THE GREEN .MOSSY BANKS WHERE THE BUTTERCUPS 
GREW”, records her early days’ fond recollections of St. Michaels and historic Miles 
River near the town, along whose banks she loved to play when a little child. Her 
famous poem “PULPIT ELOQUENCE” was the result of her memories of a sermon, 
heard at a great revival in St. Michaels by the noted Methodist divine of that day, Rev. 
Thomas Stockton. 

Mrs. Welby was considered one cf the sweetest singers in the whole Southland in 
her day. She received the most unstinted praise trom Geo. D. Prentice, the leading 
literary critic of the first half of the nineteenth century. 





THE GREEN MOSSY BANKS WHERE THE BUTTERCUPS GREW 


O my thoughts are away where my infancy flew, 

Near the green mossy banks where the buttercups grew 
Where the bright silver fountain eternally played 

First laughing in sunshine, then singing in shade; 
There oft in my childhood I’ve wandered to play. 
Flinging up the cool drops of the light falling spray, 
Till my small naked feet were all bathed in bright dew, 
As I played on the bank where the buttercups grew. 


How softly that green bank sloped down from the hill 
To the spot where the fountain grew suddenly still; 

How cool was the shadow the long branches gave, 

As they hung from the willow and dipped in the wave; 

And then, each pale lily, that slept on the stream, 

Rose and fell with the wave, as if stirred by a aream, 
While my home ’mid the vine leaves rose soft Gn my view, 
As I played on the bank where the buttercups grew. 


The beautiful things! how I watched them unfold, 

'Till they lifted their delicate vases of gold! 

O, never a spot since those days have I seen 

With leaves of such freshness and flowers of such sheen! 
How glad was my spirit! for them there was naught 

To burden its wing, save some beautiful thought 

Breaking up from its depths with each wild wind that blew 
O’er the green mossy banks where the buttercups grew. 


The paths I have trod £ would quickly retrace, 

Could I win back the gladness, that looked from my face 
As 1 cooled my warm lip in that fountain, I love 

With a spirit as pure as the wings of a dove— 

Could I wander again where my forehead was starred, 
With the beauty that dwelt in my bosom unmarred, 
And calm as a child in the starlight and dew, 

Fall asleep on the bank where the buttercups grew. 


P-ge One Hundred Sixty 









Be AG. 
aa ; pres ta ce te 
bi Sostn—2 ondoitt NS. 


ee 7 Psi t. Jee 


“Yaw Ai ALTIMA 


a mwaqaqo) rach W 7 rh)el 2 job (See 1e1) douneqat? on ,ydlaW (mu 

mW oly nt deiti, oft semiu ae 104 ANGY Vo sloell ott ni peck 

aolW  ansqe enw Stil ¢itas rod oyodyy ypu sodlaT lsat ple — 
used on ode bait 

2QUOAITTUA AMT ASUHW AAMAS YeeoM “vaso unoog 9H 

lil. onorid bas elsndaM 0@ in enotteliloon baot ‘tyeb yhoo id ehwam WE 

a now calq ot bewul ore edaed szodw gnole ,awor si) seem 


-f08 oa ce to @eihomem ted do slucor aft anw a: WSUOOL TIV.IUS" m30q @ 




























































TAL 


iA 


vo ,yeh sed? do snivib wibodet baton ods yd donot 32 at levivm mony & 
ist An as * % # co nordsoie 
ni baskdiao?: Slane ! oye leePrasr, 1s to sno bawhienes sew ydisW a 
tibsol a sovanT ood mot sang bornisenm Soom orld Govino a2 ed. 


Quite diasstsain ol) to ind sevit ort to sind oF 


_ SE TT 


WAN S24 Foal su AMT AHA 2AAAL Cee0lk ZAR TT ae 


. Yotelal wa wot yows $14 aldgeod) ya O 
: ; i} ony axes rOin iteverg el) ine 
; cllarieis minias | wevide gu aid od) swotW " 
i Balada As nitteuse af gnisterel tert 
sep} av'l boowbDiide via pi Ale s1edT ‘ 
ldimii of9 1 ib loos edi qu auigaia 
jad tie ff ree! bedaad awe vio HIT 
yiesdiv ') ~etw vied of) no tboyeiq 1 @A 
b ber tnad gostg Judi yilos woh 
j ed? otedw jone ads oT 
nad x ft wohwils add vow looy wo % 
beqail cow ed? aro? aned yed) A 
“4 rol i ¥ul Leg siowe {neds Brit: 
rita Vi # a) diiw Hed bus eso 
we sa HO Tee 1 evvest outtv ot) Gin’ omod yor ali 


a ed? otorw Aged of) uo bayilq { 2A 


b “edd botloiaw 1 word ‘apulds liiinged o1T 
‘bien lo eves’ eingileb aed) belli vedo iT’ 
ieee | aved 2/66 s#on? oottla Joge a isan .O 
fe douse Yo evewoR Dua 2 idewt) douse lo eovaal diiW 
duunt saw wari moult wy ‘livigs ver enw bala woH D 
ia my tovigu kvd otaida ovee .natw eff aabiud oT oD 


Cem 
ald jad | y bliw a ms dilw edtqeh af) mol ae nuldeoill z 
3 agugiajiod ots aedw eilond yanom ogetR efi w'O j “i 
vaibidiete 1 ¥btoltp blvow ) bow ovad T antag atT ne 

a? Ye mgt hedool ads szoubaly vidi Hosd atwibived © 
avet [4 rtatavot 2%) ai gil mrmew ver aloes Tans |) 

e7ob o Wo eeltiw edt ee otdg ee Siviga gn 4:00/ 

bi Tala saw bawlewl «at stedw ninne whasw T bine) 
borratan etoend ‘ia ab stowb jadr Uoned oud ny 
.wob Woe riulliare off al Dtifo w eo mies HHA 
wets squotsitud of: siedw dead od) ao geaies die | 


; 
[ 
| 7 
— Pa ) D (* aha vee 
| ‘tf Ai oman Ad 
‘ ; 






NOW I LAY ME 





St. Michaels 


THE MIRACLE HOUSE AT CLAIBORNE 


Continued 


Oh little house of wondrous love, 
Surely the Master came, 

And gave His blessing to those who built 
A Temple in His name. 


Hushed was the wind in the tossing pines, 
And stilled was the restless sea, 
When He spoke again to the sons of men— 

“Let the little ones come unto me.’’ 


Oh Miracle House by the Chesapeake Shore, 
We know the Master came— 

To touch with love some spark divine 
And kindle it into flame. 


A miracle house in word and deed, 
No more can the white plague harm; 
When the soft sea breeze— 
And the tossing pines 
Lend of their healing balm. 


Oh little house of wondrous love— 
So long as flows the sea, 
May the children come to laugh and play— 
From care and pain set free. 
W. C. THURSTON 





YOUR BLESSINGS 


Health and God’s own sunshine, 
Work to go with these; 

A erust of bread at meal-time, 
A chubby hand to squeeze. 

A mother’s smile to cheer you— 
A home however small, 

Then count life’s blessings over 
To find you have them all. 

; Mie Cae bEnLin = RON. 





Ah, those scenes of happy childhood, 
Graven in my mem’ry deep 


Softly ebbs the gentle twilight 
Silver stars gleam one by one, | 
Peace and rest come stealing o’er me, 
Now the busy day is done. 
Kneeling by the snowy bedside, 
While tired eyelids droop and peep; 
Children’s voices lisp the story: 
“Now I lay me down to sleep.” 


Simple’words of faith, most holy, 
Blessings asked for days to come, 

Thanks to God for mercies given, 
For their parents, and their home. 


Are the little drowsy murmurs: 
“Now I lay me down to sleep.” 


Back through years that seem like ages, 
Mem'ry haunts me like a wraith; 
And my heart’s forever yearning 
For my childhood’s simple faith. 
Ah, when life is near its closing. 
When the shadows round me creep; 
May I use the same old story; 
“Now I lap me down to sleep.” 


AUTHOR UNKNOWN. 


Page One Hundred Sixty One 


jemi chasse lem assem arpa ec gehen stern tideiaiahinenlsseashcintetie silt Siatinen-cinteiciis 
- a 


ape a pt 


=: aie mains 2199 





pa svotbaoe eke pF 
iliud odw oeody So's cata ain o ere | 


outed ai} «i sane: - Lay 


eoiiq galagod ont P bulw odds enw. me 
290 eealians aft gow botlile bak a 

—deim lo 8uos of) OF aloue odode 6H aotw Se 
“9 claw emod aeno sffsil sot Ve and oben 
7 non 2 ve 
wiod8 eoleeqasedD ed) ud na oH-sloeitMdO- ont wae . 
—9iso Wee ol} woud avr . a 7 7 
ealvid Ayhys. ates ovol Ailw dayo} of vo if 
oie dini 31 Sibalt BaA bags 






























-bseb bas biow a: oawod sloniim A itt 
‘orrad oirgalq etidw ati ge9 om OX - ify? 
—dseetd bea Jloa old natW - 
esntig gileao3 offi DOA 
uttad gntleod tied? Io baad 


—vol eierhhow lo seved 02s. AO 7 
-ooa of) ewok ao gunol o8 
— alq bor dgcel of amas nerhliidie of! ual 
ort! Jee niag boa e140 mod 
YOT2HUNT © .W 





HO IARAME AIOT 


.oeidenue nwo abo0 bua dileeH ‘ 
jomed) diiw og of a20W "6 
omis-loem tu fnew Yo Jeavs A ¢ 
esocnpa OF bowd vddodo A 
— 0% tote of alter eyediog? A 
Jisme sovewed enmod A 7 
7570 wanieeald wall janes wedT 
lta aveds evad wo4 bal of 
4OTZHUNT 0 Sf 





buotblids zqqad To aenson srodi A aM Yaa T wou 


qaeb vr otem tin of weve 


eum veworb sly! adt aA iAgiliwt #19 om ma iit 
“qoele of} nveb om Yel | wert Ste td ono im —_, 2 
wm 196 Golesi seo JavT 
none Goff wreae 344) mae Aavotd) soak ned al ‘eth gem 










‘ew a ofll om eatin Vi mem Sbabed wwom 
Baie? resol a reed Gin DRA | :qooq base Hootb ebil 


Attia? siqinte 2 boodbiids ym wa oye “wilt | miler a 
aleolo eft yor ol! wow A “ quote of sd, at 
*qov's ain hiwor ewohate ot) ae 


ote blo cutie oft sey Deak 
“.qoule of nwoh om gel Y wo 





“VOLAAD AOHTIUA 


enO yiki? babow sa oped 


St. Michaels 


St. Michaels, the second oldest town in Talbot County, appears to have been built 
around the picturesque Miles River. With stately old homes, and beautiful shade trees, 
the peaceful atmosphere of the place invites the traveler to linger and rest his soul. 

The year 1672 is as far back as there is any record of the town being inhabited, yet the 
place was settled some years previous to that time. It was incorporated i in 1804, when, by 
an act of the General Assembly, the following were made the first town commissioners, 
Robt. Dobson, James Bold, John Dorgan, Imcey Dawson and Thomas L. Haddaway. 

St. Michaels also has the Hisenielionict being the home of Amelia Welby, the sweet 
singer of Maryland. The home where she was bern is one of the revered places of the 
town. It was when she was far from the scenes of her childhood that she wrote the 


beautiful poem, “A Maryland Village by Moonlight,” with her recollections of St. 
Michaels as her inspiration. 





; in distance away 
Rolled the foam-crested waves of Chesapeake Bay, 
While bathed in the moonlight the village was seen, 
With the Church in the distance, that stood on the green. 


The soft-sleeping meadows lay brightly unrolled, 
With their mantles of verdure and blossoms of gold; 
And the earth in her beauty forgetting to grieve, 
Lay asleep in her bloom on the bosom of eve. 


The time is long past, yet how clearly defined, 
That Bay, Church and Village float up to my mind, 
I see amid the azure the moon in her pride 

With the sweet little trembler that sat by her side, 
I hear the blue waves as she wanders along 

Leap up in their gladness and sing her a song. 


r] 









Ce ie) 
SM bok Waco? 


me 


rhe 








i 


Dida Vee 2! 


: 
if 

' 

. 
3 


ee 
b 


; 
Ga ie 


come ue, 





Page One Hundred Sixty Two 





dunt; i. 


iliud nood avad of mesqqe .zinwoD aise to a 

























aon sberle lijiunsd bas .<omed 
luoe 2id ov bre ot of iisvew ads eatizni song ort 

a1) IY » heaitbesten yitred wel ob tones YOE odds 26 spud sehen al S900 
vd cad PUBL ai bateroquoati act HL. gee) dueld on 2uoivaig oy bie fy 
aznoRarame? mre. peut ob olen, save ge'walled odd, ad to. 

wewebbeH oI enmott bas aoreeG yaoenl pole Gey Te yo} 
owe ot ,ydie nilomA to senor odt gobo Yo crorsariisetly oft earl ovale 2h 
arly lo e2o0lq benever oft Yo! one et Enid aew Se nodW “Sena ofT ‘brcahsahd 
sry ssorw orle mds Loodblids todd jo.esuene oh) enor) wd enw ode node enw a 
2 to enoimallown id diw “pdgilnee yd sgelli¥ “banhield A” uneoq fh 

notertiqeut rad 





‘% 


TSWe sinetslh nt ~-. 
(6H edanqesed) lo povéw boleerto-maol ‘orl bellow 
Joe aaw ogellit off Idgilwood off) nb Pedsad slhlw 
tev1g ef) oO hoote mit .serntateih adé af domdD off diy 


hellotwae ¢Usdeled 4el ewebeood ‘stiqesiatiog eAT, 
:bloa to emomold han oul vey Yo selinem sheds it we 
eveitg o} galitesie) «need wad al disse of) BAA 
ove lo mueod ot av asoold tod ob goles tad 


.baohet vhtests wod ser tenq gaol ef ented eAT 
bolm ve oa) ar cof eualli¥ bus dvd) 408 satT 
hing ts @) cet oh) ciesn ef) Bims soe I 

soble ted ve dee Beal? eoldiaoes o190l Jeowe oft iW 
roles wretwew ode ee eovew eald of) 18d I na 

ator » td aale bie esethaly tied al qo quad 


i % 
: 

t Ab 

a 17 

f= = of 

tna © 

= ' 

‘er ‘ 
E 


mipe=t: 


, 
kb 
i 

¢ 


. “Vienna 


THE ROSE OF MARYLAND 


Maryland, my Maryland! 

Her name so dear to me, 

With majestic, towering mountains, 
Mighty rolling billows, sea; 

Coal mines, bays and rivers, 
Amazing sources otf wealth; 

Soil and climate for production; 
Quintessence of good health. 

The Eastern Shere, her garden spot, 
Where the milk and honey flows; 
A Peninsula of peace and plenty, 
Vienna her blooming rose. 


As you approach Vienna over the Rhodesdale road, there is a tablet bearing this 
inscription; “Annocokoossimmon, Emperor of the Nanticoke Indians, lived about 1677 at 
Chicacone, an ancient Indian town, north of this point. The Indian reservation was 
laid out by an act of Assembly, 1698, containing 516644 acres.” Vienna, a part of this 
acreage and known as Emperor’s Landing. Commission appointed to lay out ports and 
towns in Dorchester County, met in Cambridge, ye second day of July, in the fifth year 


of the reign of our Sovereign Lady Anne of England, Anno domini 1706. Present Mr. 


Hugh Eccleston, Walt Campbell, John Rawlings, Francis Hayward, Joseph Ennalls, 
John Kirk, Tobias Pollard, Thomas Hicks, Jacobs Lockerman, Clerk. 

The Christening of Vienna, then known as the Town on the Nanticoke River, took 
place on July 11, 1706. At this meeting all commissioners agreed, on motion of Mr. 
Lockerman, that the said town be named Vienna, and the name cut in a board and 
nailed to a post. 

After this proceeding, on July 22, 1706, and by virtue of the act referred to, Col. 
Thomas Ennalls, the surveyor, laid out about 100 acres, including a resurvey of about 20 
acres for Vienna Town—square form, with five streets, one in center, and lots; Each 
street about 1000 feet long. 

The period mentioned, 1706, was, of course, when all the lands were under control 
and disposition of the Lord Proprietory, Charles Calvert. 

The entire 100 acres bought by Mr. Anderson for 5,000 pounds of tobacco, then 
equivalent to ten shillings, approximately $1.45, amounting to the enormous sum ot 
$72.50. 

Communication from county to county by ferries, one at Vienna across to Somerset 
county; Ferryman’s annual salary 4000 pounds of tobacco in casks; about $45.00. Money 
locally not used at that period. In fact for nearly a century after, tobacco was the only 
currency in all public exchange and transactions. 


Excerpts from Dr. Elias Jones’s History of Dorchester County, Town of Vienna, 
Prior to 1709 


1742-—Six tribes of Indians conspired to massacre the whites, but failed. 


1744—Indians began leaving the county. 
1763—Building public warehouse at Vienna for tobacco; Inspectors salary 4800 


pounds; about $69.50. Ls, 
1776—Vienna a thriving place when British gunboats ascended the river, and fire 


shot at the town. 


Page One Hundred Sixty Three 


lee aio red) , 































OF ALAA © anon sae 


 buabeueRe uw 
a 07 ue ) 
adleicdem anltewa! .stestem dit 
* fiee pwollid priertine fe' ; 
-eiovit bas axed fecha lwo 9 ee 


Hels hav pep Par tae” SF 
: Moljouborwg ojemils bas - 
dttesd bear to osmtonandicty ” a . Pe +i 
Joge netiay et orole otetes@ gdT 
;ewoR ‘oud bas tila ot} oraVt. “ih | nt ah 
‘“aolg bee 6oaeq to slvanineal A - 
onot gatmoold tod aculY 6 > 


ali panned ekdei 2 # srl) ,beor alebeshordit ott tav0 sansiY dosogge wor 2 
te VOL twode bovil ache! sdosine od? 6 yorsqend .momenizzoodosoanA” ; 
ecw noitcviaesy muibol od .saioq etd? to davon ewer osibol ta2ias as ond 
vas to neq & wiastY “ane {0018 gainistacs 201 ,yidemeA to be as yd ue 

ban thog tuo vil at haiiiog in nomeurnmea am thal 2yornqmad a5 avord bon 9 

weoy asia oh ai .ylul lo yeh boom a Sabian ot ror awe Well ni 3 
1 01 ininoh onaA .brelgad i and (bet nginaved wo) io eyin 


" 


a 


M. tnerorl 
Haennd dqool ,newyell tioned ,geilwedl alot .lisdqmeD deW eames 
: : Hol ,acenedoead ado) walult sed? (bislloG enidet GhiAl 

Anos wv sdosimel adi no awol oft eo mwond walt cena To yoinamitit 
4 fo nonem no bei NG 279 eee tha heron eis) 1A, OOF . am > | tio} 0 
bos baad « ar uo omen ot bog meet) lecen od avrot bine salt sod) monnse 
oq & ot § 
J oF bonstn Jos od to sunty yd bare OTF £0 vol go .unibetiooy aifis rash 
> te 10 vovIOrS 6 yrrelesloens Pes) 4 Os tuunle gue hrel oy7r uA oh alicand 2 
el j2ol bre .5te. ni spe ghee oh ditw ,nel smupe—nwol sand / 
_nool tsk 0001 mode sams 
loryjnes whew stew 2bos! orl He oodw geo le ae 00Tl ,boaovasm borteq dT 
Novis eheil .worsngerl bial od to noitroqeib t 
nod? .xsgient to abreisscocy 000,€ 101 nomsbak oh ed steered exe OOL s3i3n2 ad T ee 
lo inue evomons oft of yainvomn ,th1G gvermmoqe agaillide as op riu 


t 
*) 


dps 


enw “ia Oo} ome thn ¥ 3 Ono: zis va TOF “OF Vibes? mo nolesinummol = 

gory, Ltt? suede jedecs nt evsedor lo chung (OOF qrelex levones gacengnel tg -_ 

gies sily' caw onli vale wuwinw « yhiee wh met al .boneq sds me bow yong 
znomnn bee syandexs sildug tHe ni | 


aantahd lo awoT ,yauoD isesdnod lo yrowifl ¢egot ecift ad 


QOTE of rote Ms 


byalin) ‘judd siti od): sino! - - beniqenot aeidifint io soci 2h 
‘pave qtr gnivest neysd. 
OOSF yrolee tots spat siilides ww! enn sad sectoiteacelh 






“Vie 1 7) Q——Conatinued 


1812—Town prepared for defense with breastworks—company milita organized, but 
the enemy did not attack. 

1828—Bridge built across the Nanticoke; (wood construction;) it was then the main 
highway and old stage coach line from Cape Charles, Va. to Baltimore and other places. 

1791 to 1866—Vienna was a port of entry with the usual Collector of customs. A 
period of 75 years. The old custom house is still standing; The Woman's Club placed a 
suitable placard on this old landmark. 

Due to the abundance of white oak timber, Vienna was once the center of a great 
ship-building industry. Many swift and shapely vessels plying the Chesapeake bay and 
the Atlantic Ocean were built at Vienna. in those days the oxen used in hauling the 
timber, were shod with heavy iron shoes to keep them from slipping on the ice. 

Believe it or not, before Baltimore was founded in 1729, the site of Vienna was 
intended for Baltimore. 

The old hospitality still prevails, and Vienna invites all lovers of quiet rivers, historic 
shrines, and the charm of pastoral scenes, to come and visit her. 


Note: Vienna, according to Mr. James A. Higgins, the Poet-Historian of this 
charming little town on the Nanticoke River, is the oldest town in the State. 





THE BEST THING IN LIFE 


The best thing in life is life itself; 

The joy of living—the thrill of love 

and work; the peace that comes at eventide. 

Nothing is sweeter than life—-the wonder OLmits 

Its pain and pleasure; the glory of it. God’s greatest 

gift to man was the gitt of iife. Life is power 

And achievement-——it is walking hand in hand with God— 
Co-worker with the Creator of the universe. 


— 





The best thing in life 
Is) the joy inelivinges 
The service to God 
In sharing and giving. 
To work—to rest— 
Drawing strength from above; 
And thank Him each day 
For the blessing of love. 
To conquer weakness with faith, 
In sharing and giving; 
The best thing in life 
: Is the joy in living. 


Page One Hundred Sixty Four 


Oo ss 
haararit 0 
























ied .bosinemo milim ynoqmes— —ehownend dive tn 


my ope 
riom oft molt ecw n (;nosuniends boow jadlovinant 9d oe pe 
exonlq todio bax neniulel oF 2 eh “ae mond < sola a ae 
A aimee to tolled lnoew aesiatiiw gins to Nog 4 ane 
6 booelq dul) ensrauW od (ypiheete Hee seuod tnosiable ofl ayery O 
vet blo el) no 
lnvty ¢ lo wes cd ono zew enanf ged deo aidwe Yo suanbaude oat ¢ 
bis yod sole my Ne? AQ oma ynivig elenew wisgens ban sire you, « .yueubai ab 
of} unilucd ai teen nao ‘ody eveb worry ol .cansiV t¢ sliud mew nes ne 
a ot no youygile mont mort qed or sods mow yvied ehiw bole + 
cow cami’. do opie orl: OST) ot bobawol scw siormilell moied goa wd 
worislell 10) bel 
Novis avin totup to emyol Uk esivat aaesiY bee zlicveng Iie qilmiqend tle 
aod nev Liew sto: of words leans to anus sdr ba 
sid) Jo taltotelH-iovT of) salgalll A. eemal 1M) 03 Sa sharon 3e 
o)are ot ol owod jesblo od) et 29418 odosijuaZ off? no nwos,olsill; 





td “Zl OZIKY Tad AKT 


; Newt otf! ei ott] at auld? trod adT - 

svol.to lited) odi---gaivll ta bod 

‘bijmev9 Ys sommes Vail! sonog on) ; 
it lo tebetow efi—olll nid) 1eleswe Saad 
lasiaotg @ bev 31 lo yvely od) *o1ganslq’ bas soar en 

iswog alevlild wl) lo tia od! eew mem os Jig t 
——bov Miw buen ol boned geiew 2: i —teeteveuse bud uid 
owovian od) 16 Wiese 941 d3tw redtow-o0_ 





sll at aakds saod odT : 
taaivil wl vol of? ak ye 
bet) oF soivtee ofT murs (eo 46 
R0iviy bos “oivade al 


Net ij—-AIOW ; ; ’ 
evoda mon) Higwite gaiwer 6 (8) ape, 
teh tseo wii dand? DOA 
eval lo yideasld ont poy 
ley ibe stondvew qaupins Of 9 oOo OOTY 
5 — me Ae Re ae ee 7 jew ™ 
a) paid dad mags kf 
hariit.at ‘ot re ae a 


The Last Word 





This book was built by the J. W. Stowell Printing Co., Federalsburg, Mad., who are 
noted for their excellent workmanship. For Mr. Stowell’s protection, it behooves us to 


say that be did not write the copy. 


Our thanks are tendered to Mr. J. P. Mowbray for his painstaking work in setting up 
pages and otherwise making a good job out of bad copy. 


Giving credit where credit is due, the whole shop seemed to take a personal interest in 
the book, which also includes Mr. Stowell, the big boss himself. His eagle eye was quick 
to catch the slightest error, and if that error was not corrected, the roof of the building 
was perceptibly shaken. 


If the book is not accepted as a classic, don't blame the printers. They did the best 
they could with the material at hand. 


To the linotype operators—-the pressmen—the office boy and all and everybody included, 
we say “Thank You’—May your shadow never grow less. 


To Federalsburg, delightful Federalsburg—with cosy homes and shady streets—with 
kindly hearts and friendly folk, we say “Good Bye,” but not for long, we'll be back—maybe 


to build another book, if not, we'll be back anyway just to see the town. 


Best wishes, Federalsburg, and may you always retain that sweet simplicity of living, 
that friendly hospitality to the stranger within your gates—which make one take you to bis 


heart and love you ever more. 


W. C. THURSTON. 





























ks an ie, 
si 454 H2.e7 


_ 
1 


— not Hd SE 


ot Ola LW amadelemliod oD geipv) Bauroit Of .\) oft, Od. Mied cent dood dT 
o} in ewroded tt tuslseteng a iivani2 «MWA qihasnediveer” tasltanes ved yah 
= . ie: > am 
~qoo wit vitvz low bib od 

e 

je griites mi drot gwidnlowna vid vol gavdamih | Ath ot levsbes! sve cdendt wh 0 
c7o> Worl Yo te dot bong a gwitkeut atturedio bare 


oa 
al 


mt tevestet Inorg p vdot of luis qude shots =A oul ab tibes onde thers grieD 
pve views ai) \bstend send ged wil Sinarol4 10 agbelion othe Asitur and 

githiterd 941 lo loot sda balseteis tow ave ver todd |) hee sory testdgile ofl dain _ 
; whol cidiiqaaing 


; : = 
M bib coll rvelityt 5 weld Leh Guenla o op Veiqvomm tow vt daod sdt WO 


Lmod to luiwetow sA8 Alvar bleas 


ff 


39 Bit) aat a See's ley in Ghee ood an \is wilt Ayia yA }- “EMR 9G afeiquerl ait of y _ 7 
124) OV Tere wrobint ¢ Tare avi" wo'f dun 1" "oe 2 


Wire ‘Thais Sis cured wiwk Wineapralwws) lw \giish> gaiedtinte4 of nme 
dreds wd Wve gwul wot ime toad “et Glee” ene ear AlN SAGs have vied tbe 

ware) »Oi set Gt tony vere Rend od Meu ton tp dead rriltone ling et 
Came Your lei) nein ecwale meng gon ben spuds veletee, denM 
ol wwe wanl ato sda diitae—eteg vee, WR Haber od of ¢ciilahqaod ¢Vowsixl saat 
Om ves dee seal ban ‘yaw 














~~ = 2.7 ¢. perm NAS 
PIO PPD Da PPO EPO - = 4 ot ee oa Dold ee E SS a i Pa es tae ~ wd 7. 
» ae tee ++ ts eet , me Fone) a : 26 ys a ae ant es 


== 405 400 / 
Fn POAT pe a 


POF rer Perr Pe - << Ary a 
- sat ee ee eT aes ta geen er apa: tae DA Baeek Soe HHO A Day fae 


ae ie ~ 
WA VEO rs 2 
Sadat atan tis Oana’ 





