I Economies  of  Relation 

LU 

I Money  and  Personalisnn 

CD 

I in  the  Lusophone  World 


> 

fO 

T” 

o 

c 

S .5 

M J g 

coq^‘5 

SS8 

oj| 

0 C 0 
Q.  (Q  0 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2016 


https://archive.org/details/economiesofrelatOOsans 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies 

23/24 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 

MONEY  AND  PERSONALISM 
IN  THE  LUSOPHONE  WORLD 


Roger  Sansi 
Guest  Editor 


Tagus  Press 
UMass  Dartmouth 
Dartmouth,  Massachusetts 


UMASS  DARTMOUTH 


Center  for  Portuguese  Studies  and  Culture 
University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth  (UMD) 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  (PLCS)  23-24 

PLCS  Editor:  Victor  K.  Mendes,  UMD 

Guest  Editor:  Roger  Sansi,  Goldsmiths,  University  of  London 

Managing  Editor:  Mario  Pereira,  UMD 

Assistant  to  PLCS  editor:  Fernando  Beleza,  UMD 

Assistant  to  the  Managing  Editor:  Melissa  Costa,  UMD 

Manuscript  Editing  and  Proofreading:  Richard  Larschan,  Valeria  M.  Souza, 

Eufrida  da  Silva,  Michelle  Marie  Santos,  Mark  Streeter,  Fernando  Beleza 

Graphic  Designer  and  Cover:  Spencer  Ladd,  UMD 

Typesetter:  Ines  Sena,  Lisbon 

Publisher 

Frank  E Sousa,  UMD 

Editorial  Board 

Joao  Cezar  de  Castro  Rocha,  Universidade  do  Estado  do  Rio  de  Janeiro 
Phillip  Rothwell,  Rutgers  University,  New  Brunswick 

Advisory  Board 

Vitor  Manuel  de  Aguiar  e Silva,  Universidade  do  Minho 

Onesimo  Teotonio  Almeida,  Brown  University 

Abel  Barros  Baptista,  Universidade  Nova  de  Lisboa 

Francisco  Bethencourt,  King’s  College,  London 

Dario  Borim,  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth 

Joao  Camilo  dos  Santos,  University  of  California,  Santa  Barbara 

Luiz  Costa  Lima,  Universidade  do  Estado  do  Rio  de  Janeiro 

Antonio  Costa  Pinto,  ISCTE,  Lisbon 

Francisco  Fagundes,  University  of  Massachusetts  Amherst 

Antonio  M.  Feijo,  Universidade  de  Lisboa 

Bela  Feldman-Bianco,  UNICAMP/IFCH 

Ana  Paula  Ferreira,  University  of  Minnesota 

Hans  Ulrich  Gumbrecht,  Stanford  University 

Anna  M.  Klobucka,  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth 

Ana  Mafalda  Leite,  Universidade  de  Lisboa 


Helder  Macedo,  Kings  College,  London 

Antonio  Machado  Fires,  Universidade  dos  Azores 

George  Monteiro,  Brown  University 

Jose  N.  Ornelas,  University  of  Massachusetts  Amherst 

Phyllis  Peres,  University  of  Maryland 

Isabel  Pires  de  Lima,  Universidade  do  Porto 

Carlos  Reis,  Universidade  Aberta 

Maria  Alzira  Seixo,  Universidade  de  Lisboa 

Karl  Erik  Schollhammer,  Pontiffcia  Universidade  Catolica  do  Rio  de  Janeiro 
Boaventura  de  Sousa  Santos,  Universidade  de  Coimbra 
Miguel  Tamen,  Universidade  de  Lisboa 
Nelson  Vieira,  Brown  University 

Regina  Zilbermann,  Universidade  Federal  do  Rio  Grande  do  Sul 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  is  a multilingual  interdisciplinary 
peer-reviewed  journal  published  semi-annually  by  the  Center  for  Portuguese 
Studies  and  Culture  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth.  The 
journal  addresses  the  literatures  and  cultures  of  the  diverse  communities  of 
the  Portuguese-speaking  world  in  terms  of  critical  and  theoretical  approaches. 

Manuscript  Policy 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  (PLCS)  welcomes  submission  of  original 
and  unpublished  manuscripts  in  English,  Portuguese,  or  Spanish  appropriate 
to  the  goals  of  the  journal.  Manuscripts  should  be  in  accordance  with  the 
MLA  Style  (latest  version)  with  parenthetical  documentation  and  a list  of 
Works  Cited.  The  author  is  responsible  for  the  accuracy  of  all  quotations, 
titles,  names,  and  dates.  Font  and  sizes  as  close  as  possible  to  the  style  of 
the  previous  issue  of  PLCS  should  be  used  throughout  the  text.  All  of  the 
information  must  be  in  the  same  language  (e.g.,  abstract,  body  of  the  article, 
bio-blurb).  Updated  specific  guidelines  for  submission  of  manuscripts  to 
PLCS  (articles,  short  articles,  review-essays,  and  reviews)  are  available  at  www 
.portstudies.umassd.edu/PLCS/.  PLCS  encourages  submission  of  manuscripts 
in  the  form  of  an  attached  single  MS  Word  file. 

Volume  Price  Information 

This  volume  (double  issue)  of  Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  may  be 
purchased  for  $24.95. 


Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth 
w'w^v.  portstudies.umassd.edu 
© 2013  Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth 
All  rights  reserved 

Maiudactured  in  the  United  States  of  America 

Tagus  Press  books  are  produced  and  distributed  for  Tagus  Press  by  University 
Press  of  New  England,  which  is  a member  of  the  Green  Press  Initiative.  The 
paper  used  in  this  book  meets  their  minimum  requirement  for  recycled  paper. 

For  all  inquiries,  please  contact: 

Tigus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth 
Center  for  Portuguese  Studies  and  Culture 
285  Old  Westport  Road 
North  Dartmouth  MA  02747-2300 
Tel.  508-999-8255  Fax  508-999-9272 
www.portstudies.umassd.edu 

Advertising 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  accepts  advertising  that  is  of  interest  to 
scholars  in  the  field  of  Portuguese,  Brazilian,  and  Luso-African  Studies  and 
Critical  Theory.  Further  information  is  available  by  contacting  the  Center  for 
Portuguese  Studies  and  Culture,  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth. 

This  volume  was  made  possible,  in  part,  by  a generous  grant  from  Sovereign 
Bank/Santander  Universities. 

Cover  image:  Stacks  of  Golden  Coins  © Gregor  Schuster/Iconica/Getty  Images. 
ISSN:  1521-804X  ISBN:  978-1-933227-14-6 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data  available  upon  request. 


5 4 3 2 1 


This  volume  is  dedicated  to  the  memory 
of  John  Russell-Wood  (1940-2010). 


Contents 


XV  Introduction:  Money  and  Personalism 

in  the  Lusophone  World 

Roger  Sansi 

1 Does  Money  Bring  Happiness?  Comparing  Brazil 

and  the  United  States 

Ruben  George  Oliven 

15  Brazilian  Gold  and  the  Commercial  Sector 

in  Oporto,  1710-1750 

A.  J.  R.  Russell-Wood 

27  Trabalho,  fortuna  e mobilidade  de  negros,  crioulos 

e mestizos  no  Brasil  do  seculo  XVIII 

Eduardo  Franga  Paiva 

55  Remittances,  Welfare  Solidarity,  and  Monetarization: 

The  Interaction  between  Personal  and  Economic 
Relations  in  Cape  Verde  during  the  Colonial  Period 

Joao  Estevao 

75  State-Sponsored  Indemnification,  the  Materiality 

of  Money,  and  the  Meanings  of  Community  in 
Salvador,  Brazil's  Pelourinho  Cultural  Heritage  Center 

John  F.  Collins 


93  A procissao  do  Senhor  dos  Passes  da  Sapataria: 

Fun^ao  economica  e reorganizagao  da  ordem  social 

Maria  Margarida  Paes  Lobo  Mascarenhas 

103  Coins  for  the  Dead,  Money  on  the  Floor: 

Mortuary  Ritual  in  Bahian  Candomble 

Brian  Brazeal 

125  Dm  caloteiro  devoto:  A contabilidade  moral 

em  Dom  Casmurro 

Bluma  Waddington  Vilar 

173  Religion  and  the  Everyday  Life  of  Money  in  Brazil 

Roger  Sansi 

199  The  Personal  Significance  of  Impersonal  Money 

Keith  Hart 

SHORT  ESSAYS,  SHORT  STORIES,  AND  POEMS 

223  From  the  Stones  of  David  to  the  Tanks 

of  Goliath 

Jose  Saramago 

Translated  and  introduced  by  George  Monteiro 


227  Do  imemorial  ou  a dan^a  do  tempo 

Eduardo  Lourengo 

233  The  Cell  Phone 

Joao  Melo 

Translated  by  Luisa  Venturini 

239  Herberto  Helder,  from  Flash 

Translated  by  Alexis  Levitin 

245  Four  Poems 

Margarida  Vale  de  Gato 

Translated  by  Ana  Hudson  and  Margarita  Vale  de  Gato 

OTHER  ARTICLES 

263  Brazilian  Masculine  Identity  in  Mario  Prata's 

Album-Novel  Buscando  o seu  mindinho: 

Um  almanaque  auricular 

George  Arthur  Carlsen 

279  "Tradigoes  evanescentes":  A ficcionalizagao 

do  discurso  cientffico  racialista  no  regionalismo 
literario  brasileiro 

Luciana  Murari 


295  Wasting  Away:  (De)Composing  Trash 

in  the  Contemporary  Brazilian  Documentary 

Steven  F.  Butterman 

305  Pressupostos  esteticos  do  academicismo  literario: 

A literatura  brasileira  no  inicio  do  seculo  XX 

Mauricio  Silva 

315  Os  livros  de  linhagens  da  idade  media  portuguesa: 

Os  livros  manuscritos  medievais  e sua  rede 
de  poderes 

Jose  D'Assungao  Barros 

331  Rewriting  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus: 

Editing  as  Translating  in  Quarto  de  despejo 

Frans  Weiser 

343  Portingale  to  Portugee 

George  Monteiro 

361  Camoes  revisitado  na  visao  mitopoetica 

de  Manuel  Alegre 

Pedro  Carlos  Louzada  Fonseca 


371  Portuguese  Short  Takes:  Three  Storytellers 

in  Portugal's  Post-Revolution  Years 

Rui  Zink 

389  Literary  Abodes:  Machado  de  Assis  on  Interiors 

Estela  Vieira 

399  Photobook  of  the  City:  Eduardo  Gageiro's  Lisboa 

no  cais  da  memoria 

Paul  Melo  e Castro 

409  The  Blindness  of  Meirelles 

Alessandro  Zir 

419  La  retorica  del  poder:  El  discurso  ideologico 

de  Salazar  a traves  de  sus  aforismos  politicos 

Alberto  Pena-Rodriguez 

441  Fernando  Beleza  on  Anibal  Frias's  Fernando  Pessoa 

et  le  quint-empire  de  I'amour 


Introduction:  Money  and  Personalism  in  the  Lusophone  World 


Roger  Sansi 


Triste  Bahia,  oh,  quao  dessemelhante 
Estas  e estou  do  nosso  antigo  estado! 
Pobre  te  vejo  a ti,  tu  a mi  empenhado 
Rico  te  vejo  eu  ja,  tu  a mi  abundante 

A ti  tocou-te  a maquina  mercante 
Quern  tua  larga  barra  tern  entrado 
A mim  vem  me  trocando  e tern  trocado 
Tanto  negocio,  e tanto  negociante 


Gaetano  Veloso’s  song  Triste  Bahia  starts  with  these  quartets  of  Gregorio  de 
Matos.  In  other  poems  grouped  in  the  same  section,  Santos  Unhates,  de  Matos 
complains  about  the  privileges  of  (Portuguese)  foreigners  over  Brazilians,^ 
denounces  the  hunger  in  the  city  while  the  fleet  takes  all  the  food  supplies,^ 
and  questions  the  monetary  policy  of  depreciation^  and  the  unequal  exchange 
between  colony  and  metropolis.'^  We  can  see  that  inflation  in  Brazil  is  not  a 
recent  phenomenon;  and  the  awareness  of  the  dependent  situation  of  the 
country  in  world  trade  is  not  new  either.  The  problem  of  Brazil  has  never  been 
its  backwardness;  on  the  contrary,  the  “merchant  machine”  of  capitalism  has 
always  been  central  to  its  formation.  During  Gregorio  de  Matos’s  time  (these 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  xv-xxvi. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


XV  i 


verses  are  dated  in  1686)  the  policy  of  depreciation  of  the  currency  was  part 
ol  a strategy  of  the  Portuguese  crown  to  stem  the  outflow  of  domestic  coins — 
and  the  gold  and  silver  they  were  made  of — to  northern  European  countries. 
By  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century,  however,  it  was  clear  that  this  outflow 
was  a result  of  an  unfavorable  trade  balance,  and  that  devaluation  had  done 
little  to  stop  it  (see  Macedo,  Silva,  and  Sousa,  and  Almodovar  and  Cardoso). 
As  Brazil  was  dependent  on  Portugal,  so  Portugal  was  becoming  aware  of  its 
dependence  on  the  new  and  powerful  northern  European  economies. 

In  order  to  understand  the  discourses  and  narratives  around  money  in  the 
lusophone  world,  it  may  be  useful  to  start  by  acknowledging  the  centrality  of 
the  “merchant  machine”  that  has  constituted  it,  so  poignantly  described  by 
de  Matos  both  as  its  living  force  and  its  curse:  his  beloved  and  loathed  city  of 
Bahia  is  founded  on  money,  but  this  same  money  keeps  her  captive  of  foreign 
powers.^  The  promise  of  wealth  is  the  motor  of  colonization,  but  it  also  brings 
affliction — because  it  is  dangerous  to  be  an  enthusiast  of  money  “sem  real 
autoridade” — without  being  in  command  over  it.  De  Matos  questioned  the 
enthusiasm  of  Bahians  for  a measure  of  value,  the  Real,  that  they  did  not  coin 
or  control,  but  that  was  made  far  away,  by  El-Rey  in  Portugal.  And  yet,  the 
Portuguese  court  was  also  unable  to  manage  its  outflow;  despite  the  pro-active 
policies  of  the  court  to  keep  it  under  control,  limiting  its  circulation,  the  Real 
was  running  away  from  their  hands,  and  their  country.  Money  is  unpredict- 
able, volatile,  and  tricky. 

“Money  does  not  bring  happiness”  (“O  dinheiro  nao  traz  felicidade”). 
For  Roberto  DaMatta,  this  saying  embodies  the  mistrust  of  money  in  Bra- 
zil. Brazilians  are  suspicious  of  money  in  contrast  to  personal  relations:  what 
brings  happiness  is  friendship,  not  material  wealth.  In  Georg  SimmePs  Phi- 
losophy of  Money,  money  is  the  ultimate  tool  of  individualization.  Through 
money,  people  become  autonomous  individuals;  all  social  interactions  can 
be  transformed  into  impersonal  services,  in  which  no  personal  acquaintance 
is  required,  because  money  becomes  a universal  mediator.  For  DaMatta,  this 
model  of  absolute  individualism  is  precisely  what  Brazilians  resist  in  their 
suspicion  of  money;  Brazilians  don’t  want  to  be  autonomous  individuals,  but 
gregarious  persons  (where  a person  is  defined  in  relation  to  other  people,  not 
in  relation  to  his/her  objectives,  like  the  individual).  Brazilian  culture  privi- 
leges personal  relationships  over  impersonal  commoditized  exchange. 

What  are  the  origins  of  this  “personalism”  of  Brazilian  society  for  Da- 
Matta? The  Catholic  religion  and  a general  lusophone  or  even  Iberian  cultural 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


xvii 


framework  seem  to  be  at  its  roots.  In  any  case,  DaMatta  always  counterpoises 
the  Brazilian  cultural  model  to  that  of  the  United  States,  the  more  accom- 
plished example  of  individualist  modernity. 

The  objective  of  this  collective  volume  is  to  question  the  limits  of  this 
model.  Is  this  “personalism”  something  really  specific  of  lusophone  cultures, 
as  opposed  to,  say,  Protestantism  or  Anglo-American  cultures?  Isn’t  it  also  a 
common  saying  in  English  that  “money  doesn’t  bring  happiness”?  In  more 
general  terms,  does  money  stand  in  contradiction  to  personal  relations?  Is  that 
the  reason  why  money  doesn’t  bring  happiness?  The  papers  in  this  volume 
address  these  questions  at  several  levels,  bringing  different  insights  from  the 
fields  of  literary  criticism,  cultural  studies,  history,  and  anthropology. 

Drawing  on  Roberto  DaMatta’s  argument,  Ruben  Oliven  explores  the 
contrasting  relationship  to  money  in  everyday  life  in  Brazil  and  in  the  United 
States.  Looking  at  Brazilian  and  American  proverbs  and  at  samba  lyrics, 
Oliven  shows  how  money  in  Brazil  is  described  as  polluting,  while  in  the 
US  it  is  poverty  that  is  filthier.  Although  the  Biblical  root  of  the  connection 
between  money  and  sin  is  common  to  both  countries  (“The  love  of  money 
is  the  root  of  all  evil”  [1  Tim.  6.10,  KJV]),  Oliven  shows  how  the  sinfulness 
of  money  has  been  ironically  subverted  in  everyday  American  sayings  such  as 
“Money  is  the  root  of  all  evil — but  has  anyone  ever  discovered  a better  route?” 
In  the  same  way,  “money  doesn’t  bring  happiness”  has  been  transformed  into 
“happiness  doesn’t  bring  money.”  This  subversion  of  the  sinfulness  of  money 
is  partially  a result  of  the  embrace  of  capitalism  by  Weber’s  famous  Protestant 
ethic,  which  is  hegemonic  in  the  US,  as  opposed  to  the  Catholic  aversion  to 
money  in  Brazil.  Oliven  shows  how  Franklin  and  Emerson  describe  money  as 
an  expression  of  human  power  over  time  and  nature.  But  he  also  qualifies  this 
historically:  there  are  different  relations  to  money  in  northern  and  southern 
states  in  the  US.  According  to  Oliven,  the  cultural  heritage  of  slavery  is  com- 
mon to  Brazil  and  the  “Old  South”:  the  negative  attitudes  towards  work  and 
money  are  partially  an  inheritance  of  a landed  gentry  with  aristocratic  ideals, 
who  despised  work  and  the  accumulation  of  money,  as  opposed  to  leisure  and 
the  liberal  expense  of  wealth  in  social  events.  Oliven  presents  a Brazilian  tradi- 
tion of  social  thought,  from  Buarque  de  Hollanda  and  Vianna  to  DaMatta,  for 
whom  Brazilians  would  have  a pre-capitalist  mentality,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that 
materially  the  country  is  fully  capitalist.  This  pre-capitalist  mentality  would 
not  just  be  a patrimony  of  the  elites  but  would  also  be  predominant  in  the 
popular  classes:  the  former  slaves  would  reject  work  because  it  was  associated 


INTRODUCTION 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


xviii 


with  slavery  and  aspire  to  a life  of  leisure,  like  their  masters.  This  would  be 
the  origin  of-  the  mythological  figure  of  the  malandro,  the  rogue,  wonderfully 
described  by  Antonio  Candido  and  DaMatta. 

Therefore,  Catholicism  and  slavery  would  be  keys  to  understanding  the 
Brazilian — and  perhaps  more  generally  lusophone — contradiction  between 
a capitalist  economy  and  a pre-capitalist  culture.  But  several  papers  in  this 
volume  question  these  assumptions.  In  his  article  on  work,  fortune,  and  the 
mobility  of  blacks,  creoles,  and  mestizos  in  Brazil  in  the  eighteenth  century, 
Eduardo  Franca  Paiva  questions  the  “slave  mentality”  that  would  generate  an 
aversion  to  work  and  a “rogue  culture”  in  the  Brazilian  popular  classes.  By 
looking  at  the  trajectories  of  freed  slaves  in  eighteenth-century  Minas  Gerais, 
Paiva  shows  how  many  of  them,  after  attaining  freedom — most  of  the  time 
not  by  an  act  of  grace  but  by  buying  it  themselves  with  their  own  work — 
would  not  fall  into  idleness,  as  the  myth  of  the  rogue  “malandro”  would  pre- 
sume, but  instead  became  entrepreneurs  and  business  owners.  In  many  of 
these  cases,  their  predisposition  and  ability  to  save  and  capitalize  money  is 
unquestionable.  This  contradicted  the  discourse  of  the  political  elites,  who 
described  the  freed  slaves  as  “dangerous”  anti-social  elements.  For  Paiva,  this 
concern  of  the  establishment  was  a reaction  against  the  social  and  economic 
success  and  adaptation  of  their  former  slaves,  which  questioned  their  own 
authority.  The  myth  of  the  freed  slave  as  an  idler  and  a rogue,  vadio  and 
malandro,  finds  its  roots  in  the  venomous  denunciations  of  a traditional  elite 
that  was  afraid  of  being  overcome  by  their  former  slaves  in  their  own  system: 
a capitalist  economy  in  full  expansion.  This  myth,  however,  survived  the  end 
of  slavery  and  acquired  the  status  of  historical  and  sociological  truth  in  the 
twentieth  century,  when  many  historians,  anthropologists,  and  sociologists 
described  the  unsuccessful  adaptation  of  “blacks”  to  the  new  class  society  as  a 
result  of  their  “slave  culture”  (Fernandes  1965). 

The  eighteenth  century  provides  a good  counterpoint  to  the  presentism 
of  certain  approaches.  The  discovery  of  gold  in  Minas  Gerais  at  the  end  of 
the  seventeenth  century  gave  a boost  to  the  Portuguese  Empire  and  a second 
chance  to  take  control  over  its  economic  growth.  John  Russell-Wood’s  paper 
on  “Brazilian  Gold  and  the  Gommercial  Sector  in  Oporto  (1710—1750),” 
which  follows  the  trajectories  of  the  gold  bullion,  shows  how  the  city  of  Oporto 
was  not  just  a stopping  place  but  an  active  participant  in  a European  trade 
network  that  greatly  benefited  from  this  trade,  both  culturally  and  socially: 
not  all  the  gold  was  pouring  out  of  the  empire.  The  Portuguese  Empire  was 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


always  involved  in  the  emerging  world-system  of  trade  that  would  later  be 
defined  as  “capitalism.”  As  we  know,  this  “second  chance”  of  the  eighteenth 
century  did  not  finally  shake  the  Portuguese  Empire  from  its  dependency  on 
northern  European  powers.  The  “Reformas  Pombalinas”  are  the  first  case  of  a 
self-conscious  program  of  “modernization,”  a recurrent  obsession  of  the  elites 
in  the  next  two  centuries  (what  Faoro  called  the  “impetus  de  moderniza^ao”), 
and  which  in  all  cases  will  only  be  partially  successful.  These  modernization 
programs  seemed  inevitably  destined  to  fail  since  they  do  not  acknowledge 
that  the  problem  is  not  just  the  reform  of  the  State  as  much  as  the  renegotia- 
tion of  its  relations  with  the  world-system,  as  dependency  theorists  showed 
some  time  ago.^  The  discourse  on  the  “backwardness”  and  “pre-capitalist” 
culture  of  the  lusophone  world  also  finds  its  roots  in  these  reformist  pro- 
grams. But  how  can  the  lusophone  world  be  pre-  or  anti-capitalist  if  the  “mer- 
chant machine”  is  at  its  foundations? 

In  her  meticulous  and  enlightening  reading  of  Machado  de  Assis’s  Dom 
Casmurro,  Bluma  Waddington  Vilar  shows  the  complexity  with  which  Assis 
was  approaching  the  topic  of  “money  doesn’t  bring  happiness.”  At  one  level, 
Vilar  shows  how  in  many  of  his  novels,  reproduction  and  familial  well-being 
are  contradictory  to  material  wealth,  or  better,  material  wealth  is  tarnished  by 
sterility.  And  yet,  at  another  level,  the  reversibility  between  economy,  religion, 
and  kinship  as  systems  of  value  is  based  on  an  economic  logic,  the  logic  of 
debt,  which  is  common  to  all  of  them,  what  Vilar  calls  a “moral  account- 
ability.” Like  the  economy,  the  ritual  exchange  of  the  religious  promessa  is 
sarcastically  described  in  terms  of  accountancy,  and  so  is  the  relationship 
between  fathers  and  sons.  In  that,  Machado  is  a wonderful  example  of  how 
the  nineteenth-century  “realist”  bourgeois  novel  contained  what  in  the  twen- 
tieth century  would  become  “realist”  sociological  theories  that  would  describe 
the  social  man  essentially  as  a bourgeois  accountant,  always  seeking  to  accu- 
mulate capital  in  different  forms — not  just  economic,  but  also  cultural,  reli- 
gious, or  symbolic  capital  (Bourdieu  1972).  And  yet  Machado,  through  his 
use  of  multiple  voices  (is  Dom  Casmurro’s  cynical  vision  of  moral  account- 
ability Machado’s  view,  or  just  one  aspect  of  it?)  shows  a much  more  complex 
picture  than  any  critical  sociology  could  have,  by  presenting  characters  who 
in  all  their  complexity  try  to  reduce  and  control  the  world  through  numbers, 
and  yet  are  always  overcome  by  emotions  that  cannot  be  accounted  for:  love, 
hatred,  rage  . . . which  is  precisely  what  “accounting”  is  all  about  in  Dom  Cas- 
murro'. hiding  your  real  thoughts  and  emotions.  The  scene  in  Dom  Casmurro 


INTRODUCTION 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


where  he  pays  his  “son’s”  trip  to  the  Near  East,  hoping  to  “pay  for  his  leprosy,” 
so  that  he  dies  on  this  trip,  gives  a sad  and  shocking  impression  of  the  misery 
of  this  “accounting  man”  that,  curiously  enough,  has  become  the  model  of  the 
social  man  for  many  contemporary  social  theorists. 

Catholicism  is  the  other  factor  that  seems  to  forge  an  irredeemable  con- 
tradiction between  lusophone  personalism  and  capitalist  attitudes  toward 
money.  What  to  do  then  with  the  uses  of  money  in  traditional  Catholic  fes- 
tivals like  the  procession  of  Nosso  Senhor  dos  Passos  da  Sapataria,  celebrated 
in  Lisbon  up  to  this  day?  In  her  article,  Maria  Mascarenhas  shows  how  the 
procession’s  commission  capitalizes  the  remains  of  the  procession’s  expenses  in 
a bank  account,  reinvesting  the  interest  for  the  next  year.  This  practice  could 
be  justified  because  the  commission  is  constituted  by  secular  members  of  the 
congregation  and  not  by  ordered  priests;  yet,  one  has  to  acknowledge  the  rel- 
evance of  secular  brotherhoods  in  the  popular  Catholicism  of  the  lusophone 
world,  and  the  centrality  that  the  accumulation  and  display  of  material  wealth 
have  always  had  in  these  brotherhoods.  In  wider  terms,  Mascarenhas  shows 
the  centrality  of  money  in  everyday  rituals  like  the  promessas,  inscribed  in  a 
dialectics  of  reciprocity. 

In  his  paper  about  axexe  funerary  rituals,  Brian  Brazeal  also  shows  the 
diverse  ritual  uses  that  money  can  have  in  the  Afro-Brazilian  religion  Can- 
domble.  In  these  rituals,  money  in  the  form  of  coins  is  used  to  “pay  off” 
the  spirit  of  a deceased  person.  This  ritual  indexes  the  passage  from  the  par- 
ticular living  person  to  the  generic  dead  spirit  (Egum).  According  to  Brazeal, 
“The  coins  for  the  dead  work  on  the  principle  of  the  universal  equivalence 
of  money  to  transform  a particular  relationship  into  a generalized  one”:  the 
members  of  the  cult  “purge  themselves  of  their  personal  relationship  to  the 
deceased”  by  rubbing  their  body  with  coins  and  then  throwing  them  into  a 
clay  bowl  (alguidar).  The  money  then  becomes  sacralized  and  may  only  be 
used  for  paying  ritual  services  (although,  as  we  see  in  this  particular  case,  this 
can  be  interpreted  rather  generously).  In  another  ritual,  in  the  sacrifices  to  the 
gods  (Orixas),  money  is  distributed  in  a ceremonial  manner  (on  the  floor) 
amongst  the  participants,  but  in  very  different  terms:  “Unlike  the  coins  for 
the  dead,  which  sever  kinship  relations,  the  ritual  transaction  of  money  on  the 
floor  reaffirms  them.” 

Both  Mascarenhas  and  Brazeal  show  how  money  can  acquire  a ritual  value, 
both  in  Catholicism  and  Candomble.  Both  authors  emphasize  reciprocity 
and  redistribution  as  central  to  the  uses  (or  at  least  the  discourses)  of  money 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


xxi 


in  these  ritual  events.  By  looking  at  these  religious  practices  with  money,  we 
can  see  that  the  discourse  of  “personalism”  is  in  fact  not  contradictory  in 
terms  of  money,  but  that  money  can  be  used  to  constitute  and  reproduce  per- 
sonal relations.  However,  we  could  also  argue  that  money  in  these  ritual  uses 
loses  one  of  its  fundamental  qualities:  its  universality  and  impersonality  as  a 
measure  of  value,  because  it  becomes  attached  to  the  reproduction  of  a com- 
munity and  cannot  be  used  out  of  this  ritual  context.  Moreover,  we  could  say 
that  the  values  of  these  rituals  are  pre-  or  anti-capitalist,  because  their  object  is 
to  reinforce  communities  and  not  to  increase  the  wealth  of  single  individuals. 

But  aren’t  there  money  rituals  that  aim  to  increase  the  wealth  of  indi- 
viduals, formalizing  the  magical  capacity  of  money  to  reproduce  itself,  the 
“magic  of  capitalism”?  Michael  Taussig’s  The  Devil  and  Commodity  Fetishism 
in  Latin  America  (1980)  described  the  production  of  new  money  rituals  and 
mythologies  of  wealth  with  the  arrival  of  new  forms  of  capitalism.  This  is  also 
one  of  the  issues  that  Roger  Sansi  deals  with  in  “Religion  and  the  Everyday 
Life  of  Money  in  Brazil.”  One  of  the  points  that  Sansi  makes  is  that  these 
ritual  practices  of  “money  magic”  are  not  particularly  new  in  Brazil  or  the 
lusophone  world;  rituals  that  seek  the  multiplication  of  money  can  be  found 
in  popular  Catholic  practice  as  well  as  in  African  rituals,  and  in  the  diverse 
inter-penetrations  of  the  two,  beginning  in  the  early  stages  of  colonization. 
This  argument  is  a necessary  prelude  to  discuss  the  practices  of  the  Neo-Pen- 
tecostal  churches  in  the  lusophone  world.  The  astonishing  expansion  of  these 
churches  in  the  last  few  years  has  been  interpreted  by  many  anthropologists 
and  sociologists  of  religion  as  a result  of  the  encounter  with  capitalism  in  its 
late  phase:  neo-liberalism.  These  new  churches  would  incorporate  this  foreign 
“magic  of  capitalism”  into  their  ritual  practices,  promoting  a Gospel  of  Pros- 
perity. In  contrast,  Sansi  argues  that,  on  the  one  hand,  there  is  nothing  foreign 
or  new  to  this  magic  in  the  lusophone  world;  on  the  other  hand,  he  proposes 
that  there  is  something  more  than  the  pursuit  of  material  wealth  behind  the 
Neo-Pentecostal  ritualization  of  money:  there  is  also  a project  of  political  and 
religious  hegemony.  This  statement  has  to  be  understood  in  the  context  of 
the  “authoritarian  monetarism”  that  Brazil  has  suffered  in  the  last  decades, 
in  which  the  State  has  kept  the  circulation  of  money  under  rigorous  control, 
since  the  strength  of  the  country  is  closely  associated  to  the  strength  of  its 
currency  (the  “Brazil  risk”^).  By  sanctifying  money,  the  Neo-Pentecostals  are 
actually  proposing  to  build  a Christian  economy  anchored  to  the  only  truly 
stable  “standard  of  value,”  one  much  better  than  the  dollar:  God  himself 


INTRODUCTION 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


One  ot  the  central  questions  that  these  papers  on  religion  raise  is  the 
personalization  of  money — how  it  becomes  an  index  of  particular  persons, 
networks,  or  communities,  and  a tool  for  their  reproduction.  But  that  is 
of  course  not  an  issue  limited  to  religious  practices.  Joao  Estevao’s  paper 
describes  the  introduction  of  the  colonial  currency  in  Cape  Verde.  The  pro- 
cess of  monetarization  of  the  economy  in  the  archipelago  did  not  result  in 
a growing  impersonalization  of  social  relations;  on  the  contrary,  it  was  con- 
stituted by  (and  was  constitutive  to)  kinship  networks  of  migrants.  These 
migrants  sent  remittances  in  foreign  currencies  that  were  then  exchanged  into 
Cape  Verdean  escudos,  stabilizing  the  currency  as  a result.  This  transfer  from 
the  kinship  network  to  the  colonial  state  occurred  through  complex  processes 
that  involved  formal  and  informal  instances,  mainly  the  relationship  of  local 
merchants  with  families  of  migrants.  The  local  merchant  would  act  as  a medi- 
ator between  the  family  and  the  bank,  receiving  the  remittances  from  the 
migrants  and  transforming  them  into  groceries  and  cash  in  the  local  currency 
for  the  family.  “The  personal  and  economic  relations  were  thus  complemen- 
tary with  each  other.” 

John  Collins  describes  a rather  less  successful  story:  the  expropriation  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  historical  center  of  Salvador  de  Bahia,  the  Pelourinho.  The 
population  of  that  neighborhood  was  seen  as  marginais  and  malandros,  danger- 
ous crooks.  Many  years  after  the  eviction  in  1992,  Collins  describes  how  the 
former  neighbors  reconstituted  their  lives  from  that  second  start,  when  they 
found  themselves  in  the  street  and  with  an  indemnification:  “the  exchange  of 
money  for  dwellings  has  both  destroyed  a neighborhood  and  reconstituted  a 
somewhat  different  community  in  its  place”:  a community  of  memory.  The 
stories  of  this  second  start — stories  of  success  or,  in  most  cases,  failure — deal 
with  the  ability  of  these  marginais  to  transform  money  into  a new  life. 

How  to  avoid  wasting  money?  How  can  we  transform  impersonal  money 
into  a personal  value?  How  can  we  capitalize  to  build  a better  life,  to  build 
people,  social  relations,  and  communities?  The  theme  of  the  personalization 
of  money  is  relevant  to  many  papers  in  this  volume,  and  is  also  addressed  in 
the  concluding  article  by  Keith  Hart.  Money  is  always  both  impersonal  and 
personal;  there  is  no  such  a thing  as  absolutely  abstract,  impersonal  money 
because,  first,  many  monetary  transactions  involve  credit,  which  implies  a 
social  relation  of  recognition,  a personalization  of  the  participants  in  the 
exchange.  Personal  credit  is  becoming  one  of  the  dominant  forms  of  eco- 
nomic transaction  in  our  society  (through  cards,  telephone  and  internet 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


xxiii 


payments,  loans,  and,  of  course,  mortgages).  Money  becomes  more  personal- 
ized: the  credit  we  have  depends  on  who  we  are;  we  pay  with  our  individual 
signatures,  IDs,  and  passwords;  we  need  endorsers.  But  that  does  not  imply  so 
much  a “re-personalization”  of  the  economy  as  a re-negotiation  of  its  personal 
and  impersonal  aspects,  in  which  nation-states,  as  issuers  of  “impersonal” 
national  currencies — and  guarantors  of  their  value — seem  to  lose  pace.  The 
result.  Hart  predicts,  could  be  a new  “feudalism,”  in  which  what  you  have 
depends  on  who  you  are — your  wealth  is  related  to  your  “fame” — your  good 
reputation  or  good  credit  record. 

Portugal,  since  its  integration  with  the  Euro,  apparently  has  managed  to 
overcome  uncertainties  and  monetary  fluctuations;  yet,  after  the  last  credit 
crash,  its  integration  with  the  Euro  has  begun  to  appear  as  a mixed  bless- 
ing, and  rumors  about  Portugal  “defaulting”  and  “being  kicked  out”  of  the 
Eurozone  were  constant  by  the  time  this  introduction  was  written  (March 
2012).  Portugal  is  being  cast  aside  with  other  European  PIGS  (Portugal,  Ire- 
land, Greece,  and  Spain),  poor  countries  that  seemed  to  become  rich  thanks 
to  the  European  Union,  but  apparently  had  only  become  heavily  indebted. 
The  media  discourse  on  the  PIGS  (even  in  these  same  countries)  is  often 
astonishingly  moralistic,  rather  than  economic:  the  PIGS  are  often  defined  as 
“unreliable,”  not  being  “serious,”  not  “doing  their  homework,”  needing  to  be 
supervised  by  “serious”  Germany  as  a kind  of  father/mother  figure,  because 
they  are  unable  to  manage  money  ...  perhaps  because  of  their  “culture,”  and 
their  religion?  Because  they  are  not  Protestants?  What  and  who  generated 
the  debt  crisis  in  the  first  place — the  credit  crunch  perpetrated  by  essentially 
Anglo-American  (and  therefore  Protestant?)  banks  seems  to  be  totally  forgot- 
ten in  these  highly  moralistic,  and  sometimes  even  racist  narratives. 

The  fate  of  other  countries  in  the  lusophone  world,  like  Brazil  and 
Angola,  seems  to  have  been  radically  different:  both  Brazil  and  Angola  have 
grown  exponentially  in  the  last  decade  thanks  to  their  powerful  exportations 
of  raw  materials  and  commodities.  Nobody  seems  to  remember  today  the 
“backwardness”  of  these  countries,  or  their  “culture,”  by  the  same  token.  They 
appear  as  perfectly  proficient  “capitalist”  economies.  But  is  their  situation 
stable  now?  Do  they  have  “credit”?  By  March  2012  Brazil  has  become  the 
world’s  seventh  largest  economy,  surpassing  the  alpha  and  omega  of  capital- 
ism, the  UK.  But  still  today,  in  Brazil,  credit  operations  have  excruciatingly 
high  interest  rates  (9.75  percent  in  Brazil  as  opposed  to  1 percent  in  the 
Eurozone  in  January  2012),  a result  of  decades  of  authoritarian  monetarism 


INTRODUCTION 


KXIV 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


and  uncertainty  over  the  future  of  the  currency  and  the  economy  in  general — 
the  “Brazil  risk.”  Since  the  nineties,  these  high  interest  rates  have  attracted 
international  banks,  which  have  generated  an  expansion  of  credit  that  could 
eventually  result  in  an  extremely  violent  local  “crunch”  because  of  the  excru- 
ciatingly high  interest  rates.  Angola,  on  the  other  hand,  after  the  brutal 
hyperinflation  of  the  nineties,  a result  of  the  war  and  of  the  Russian  crisis,  is 
booming,  thanks  to  the  construction  sector  and  exportations  of  raw  materials, 
especially  oil,  in  particular  to  China  (which  buys  40  percent  of  its  exports).  In 
fact  Angolan  business  is  heavily  investing  in  Portugal,  in  a process  that  inevi- 
tably has  the  sentimental  undertones  of  a “reverse  colonization.”  But  still,  the 
interest  rates  in  Angola  are  also  excruciatingly  high,  higher  than  in  Brazil  (10 
percent),  and  its  economy  is  very  dependent  on  the  fluctuations  of  the  world 
market;  a crisis  in  China  could  have  devastating  effects  for  Angola. 

All  these  considerations  bring  us  to  a more  general  question:  to  what 
extent  is  the  distrust  of  money  in  lusophone  countries  not  just  the  result  of  a 
“personalist”  culture  but  of  the  dominated  position  of  these  countries  in  the 
world-system?  At  this  point  we  need  to  re-frame  the  problem  of  the  “person- 
alization” of  money  in  relation  to  its  “impersonalization.”  What  does  it  mean 
that  money  is  “impersonal”?  It  means  that  it  is  a means  of  exchange,  that  it 
can  be  used  to  buy  anything  in  a market,  but  also  that  money  is  a standard 
of  value,  that  it  is  “a  token  of  society,”  as  Hart  says:  “it  must  be  impersonal 
in  order  to  connect  each  individual  to  the  universe  of  relations  to  which  they 
belong.”  This  “standard  of  value,”  in  the  last  centuries,  was  issued  by  the  State, 
as  the  embodiment  of  “society.”  This  double  character  of  the  impersonality 
of  money,  what  Hart  called  its  “heads  or  tails”  {Cara  ou  coroa  in  Portuguese), 
makes  of  money  the  embodiment  of  a perhaps  more  fundamental  dichotomy 
than  the  “personal”  and  the  “impersonal”:  the  dichotomy  of  markets  and 
states.  This  dichotomy  is  not  necessarily  a contradiction — markets  can  work 
for  the  benefit  of  states  and  states  can  ensure  the  conditions  of  development 
of  markets:  such  is  the  fundamental  principle  behind  classical  liberal  political 
economy.  But  the  fact  remains  that  “all  markets  are  in  a sense  world  markets, 
in  that  they  link  specific  places  to  a proliferating  network  of  universal  scope.” 
By  participating  in  a market,  persons,  communities,  “societies,”  States  take 
the  risk  of  being  unable  to  control  the  standards  of  exchange.  This  is  probably 
one  of  the  central  questions  behind  the  suspicious  character  of  money,  not 
just  its  impersonal  character  but  its  ambiguously  key  position  in  the  dialectics 
of  the  global  and  the  local,  its  identity  as  a token  of  the  world-system,  its 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


XXV 


uncontrollable  otherness.  The  lusophone  world,  in  the  long  run,  has  had  a 
subaltern  and  dependent  role  in  the  distribution  of  this  world-system,  and 
money  has  been  one  of  the  more  powerful  tools  of  its  compliance  with  inter- 
national markets.  This  subaltern  dependency  has  produced  extreme  hardships 
in  the  everyday  lives  of  people  in  lusophone  countries,  who  have  had  to  suffer 
the  consequences  of  depreciation,  hyperinflation,  and  economic  crises  from 
1686  to  1986,  and  beyond.  In  these  conditions,  there  is  plenty  of  proof  that 
“money  does  not  bring  happiness,”  or  better,  that  money  cannot  be  easily 
controlled;  it  is  difficult  to  plan  one’s  future  happiness  by  counting  on  it.  Still, 
nowadays,  the  “merchant  machine”  is  both  the  driving  force  and  the  curse  of 
the  lusophone  world. 


Notes 

’ Senhora  Dona  Bahia,  / nobre,  e opulenta  cidade,  / madrasta  dos  Naturals,  / e dos  Estran- 
geiros  madre. 

^ Toda  a cidade  derrota  / esta  fome  universal,  / uns  dao  a culpa  total  / a Camara,  outros 
a frota:  / a frota  tudo  abarrota  / dentro  nos  escotilhoes  / a came,  o peixe,  os  feijoes,  / e se  a 
Camara  olha,  e ri,  porque  anda  farta  ate  aqui,  / e cousa,  que  me  nao  toca;  / Ponto  em  boca  (from 
pt.wikisource.org,  last  visited  18  February  2008). 

^ Tratam  de  diminuir  / o dinheiro  a meu  pesar,  / que  para  a cousa  baixar  / o melhor  meio 
e subir:  / quern  via  tao  alto  ir,  / como  eu  vi  ir  a moeda,  / Ihe  prognosticou  a queda,  / como  eu 
lha  prognostiquei:  / dizeni,  que  o mandou  El-Rei,  / quer  creiais,  quer  nao  creiais.  / Nao  vos 
espanteis,  que  inda  la  vem  mais. 

^ Vira  a frota  para  o ano,  / e que  leve  vos  agouro  / senao  tudo  a peso  de  ouro,  / a peso  tudo 
de  engano:  / nao  e o valor  desumano,  / que  / a cada  oitava  se  da  / da  prata,  que  corre  ca,  / pelo 
meu  fraco  conceito,  / mas  ao  cobrar  fiel  direito,  / e obliquo,  quando  pagais;  / Nao  vos  espanteis, 
que  inda  la  vem  mais. 

^ Bern  merece  esta  cidade  / esta  afli^ao,  que  a assalta,  / pois  os  dinheiros  exalta  / sem  real 
autoridade:  / eu  se  / hei  de  falar  verdade,  / o agressor  do  delito  / devia  ser  so  o aflito:  mas  estao 
tao  descansados,  / talvez  que  sejam  chamados  / nesta  frota,  que  esperais;  / Nao  vos  espanteis, 
que  inda  la  vem  mais. 

^ See  for  example  Cardoso  and  Faletto.  For  an  interesting  interpretation  of  Cardosos  later 
conversion  to  “modernization,”  read  Rocha. 

^ Concerning  the  “Brazil  risk,”  see  Garcia  and  Didier. 


INTRODUCTION 


xxvi 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Works  Cited 

.AJmodovar,  Antonio,  and  Jose  Luis  Cardoso,  eds.  A History  of  Portuguese  Economic  Thought. 
New  York:  Routledge,  2002.  Print. 

Bourdieu,  Pierre.  Esquisse  d’  une  theorie  de  la  pratique.  Paris:  Ed.  Droz,  1972.  Print. 

Candido,  Antonio.  Dialetica  da  malandragem.  Sao  Paulo:  Instituto  de  Estudos  Brasileiros,  1970. 
Print. 

Cardoso,  Eernando  Henrique,  and  Enzo  Faletto.  Dependency  and  Development  in  Latin  America. 
Berkeley:  U of  California  P,  1979.  Print. 

DaMatta,  Roberto.  Carnivals,  Rogues,  and  Heroes:  An  Interpretation  of  the  Brazilian  Dilemma. 

South  Bend,  IN:  U of  Notre  Dame  P,  1991.  Print. 

Faoro,  Raymundo.  “A  questao  nacional:  a moderniza^ao.”  Estudos  Avangados  G.\  A (1992):  7-22. 
Print. 

Fernandes,  Florestan.  A integracdo  do  negro  na  sociedade  de  classes.  Sao  Paulo:  Dominus,  1965.  Print. 
Garcia,  Marcio  G.  P,  and  Tatiana  Didier.  “Very  Fligh  Interest  Rates  and  the  Cousin  Risks:  Brazil 
during  the  Real  Years.”  Textos  para  discussao  441,  Department  of  Economics  PUC-Rio, 
2000.  Web.  18  Feb.  2008.  <www.econ.puc-rio.br/pdf/td44l.pdf>. 

Holanda,  Sergio  Buarque  de.  Raizes  do  Brasil  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Jose  Olympio,  1969.  Print. 

Holy  Bible,  I6l  1 King  James  Version.  Web.  5 Jan.  201 1.  <http://www.kingjamesbibletrust.org/>. 

Macedo,  Jorge  Braga  de,  Alvaro  Ferreira  da  Silva,  and  Rita  Martins  de  Sousa.  “War,  Taxes,  and 
Gold.  The  Inheritance  of  the  Real.”  Transferring  Wealth  and  Power  from  the  Old  to  the  New 
World:  Monetary  and  Eiscal  Institutions  in  the  17th  through  the  19th  Centuries.  Cambridge, 
UK:  Cambridge  UP,  2001.  187-230.  Print. 

Rocha,  Geisa  Maria.  “Neo-Dependency  in  Brazil.”  New  Left  Review  16  (2002):  n.p.  Web.  18 
Feb  2008.  <www.newleftreview.org/?page=article&view=2397>. 

Simmel,  Georg.  The  Philosophy  of  Money.  London:  Routledge,  1978.  Print. 

Taussig,  Michael.  The  Devil  and  Commodity  Fetishism  in  Latin  America.  Chapel  Hill:  U of 
North  Carolina  P,  1980.  Print. 

Vianna,  Francisco  Jose  de  Oliveira.  Histdria  social  da  economia  capitalista  no  Brasil  Belo 
Horizonte/Rio  de  Janeiro:  Itatiaia/UFF,  1987.  Print. 

Weber,  Max.  The  Protestant  Ethic  and  the  Spirit  of  Capitalism.  London:  Unwin  Hyman,  1 930.  Print. 


Roger  Sansi  (PhD,  University  of  Chicago,  2003)  is  senior  lecturer  in  the  Department  of 
Anthropology,  Goldsmiths,  University  of  London.  His  recent  publications  include  Fetishes 
and  Monuments:  Afro- Brazilian  Art  and  Culture  in  Bahia  (Berghahn,  2007)  and  Sorcery  in  the 
Black  Atlantic  with  L.  Nicolau:  U of  Chicago  2010).  Email:  ans01rsr@gold.ac.uk 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


Does  Money  Bring  Happiness? 
Comparing  Brazil  and  the  United  States 


Ruben  George  Oliven 


Abstract:  This  article  compares  attitudes  towards  the  relation  between 
money  and  happiness  in  Brazil  with  those  existing  in  the  United  States. 
Money  is  examined  through  language  expressions,  proverbs,  popular 
music,  and  scholarly  and  non-scholarly  articles.  It  is  analyzed  in  relation  to 
blood,  sperm,  slavery,  free  labor,  saving,  Catholicism,  and  Protestantism. 
Whereas  in  America  money  is  outspoken,  in  Brazil  there  is  frequently  a 
diffident  attitude  towards  it.  While  in  Brazilian  society,  money  is  seen 
as  polluting  and  leading  to  unhappiness,  in  North  American  society  it  is 
seen  as  something  cleaner  and  as  part  of  self-realization. 


Money  is  the  message 

Money  is  a means  of  exchange  not  only  of  economic  values  but  also  of  social 
values.  Through  money  cultures  communicate  beliefs,  mainstream  ideas,  and 
feelings  about  what  is  proper  and  improper.  It  is  therefore  important  to  com- 
pare different  societies  as  regards  money.  The  United  States  and  Brazil  are 
two  interesting  examples  in  the  sense  that  their  rhetoric  about  money  differs. 

Whereas  in  America  money  is  outspoken  (Oliven,  “Looking”),  in  Brazil 
there  is  frequently  a diffident  attitude  towards  it.  There  are  several  expressions 
in  the  United  States  directly  related  to  money.  “To  add  my  two  cents  to  the 
discussion”  means  you  want  to  voice  your  opinion  as  regards  a subject  that  is 
being  debated.  “They  don’t  buy  it”  means  they  don’t  agree  or  accept  the  idea. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  l^llA  (2012):  1-1 4. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


2 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


“I  would  put  my  money  on  this”  means  that  this  is  what  is  going  to  happen 
in  the  hiture  as  regards  a certain  trend.  “For  one’s  money”  means  “according 
to  one’s  preference  or  opinion”  {New  Lexicon  1458).  And  “a  penny  for  your 
thoughts”  implies  that  theoretically  everything  is  for  sale  including  your  most 
intimate  leelings.  In  Brazil  you  buy  a discussion  {comprar  uma  discussao)  and 
you  buy  a fight  {comprar  uma  brigd),  both  having  a conflictive  meaning. 

In  Brazil  money  is  Ireqtiently  shameful  to  discuss.  The  polite  way  to  ask  for 
money  there  is:  “Can  you  lend  me  some?”  ( Voce pode  me  emprestar  algum?) . In 
the  States  money  is  more  easily  seen  as  an  integral  part  of  the  person.  Thus  the 
saying  “Not  a penny  to  my  name.”  In  America,  when  referring  to  the  amount 
of  wealth  a person  owns,  newspapers  frequently  use  the  expression  “Mr.  X is 
worth  so  many  million  dollars.”  In  Brazil  one  would  not  want  to  believe  that 
a person  could  be  defined  by  the  money  attached  to  him  or  her  in  spite  of  or 
because  of  the  fact  that  social  inequality  is  greater  there. 

In  English  you  pay  attention,  you  pay  a visit,  you  pay  a compliment,  you  pay 
your  respects,  you  pay  your  way,  and  you  pay  lip  service.  In  Brazil  you  pay  for  your 
sins  {pagar  seus  pecados)  and  you  pay  promises  {pagar  promessas).  Whereas  in  the 
United  States  you  will  ask  a person  if  you  can  buy  him  or  her  a drink,  in  Brazil 
you  would  ask  if  you  can  get  or  offer  someone  a drink.  In  Brazil,  asking  if  you  can 
buy  someone  a drink  would  implicitly  mean  that  you  are  trying  to  buy  the  person. 

In  Brazil,  money  is  regarded  as  more  polluting  than  in  the  States.  Actually, 
in  Brazil,  when  a person  is  totally  out  of  money  he  or  she  is  “clean”  {limpo), 
and  when  a gang  robs  a bank  they  “clean”  it.  But  when  a person  is  very  wealthy, 
he  or  she  is  “rotten  rich”  {podre  de  rico),  the  equivalent  of  the  American  “stink- 
ing rich.”  In  Brazilian  slang  the  word  poupanga  (savings)  is  used  to  refer  to  the 
buttocks.  And  when  you  are  totally  out  of  money  you  can  say:  “I  haven’t  got  a 
whorish  penny”  {Estou  sem  um  puto  tostao). 

In  America,  however,  it  is  poverty  that  is  filthier.  In  this  respect  one  can  be 
“dirt  poor.”  There  are  other  expressions  relating  poverty  to  dirt  in  English: 
something  can  be  “dirt  cheap”  (again  the  dirt  is  in  the  lack,  not  in  the  abundance 
of  money).  On  the  other  hand,  pay  dirt,  according  to  the  dictionary,  is  “earth 
containing  enough  ore  to  be  profitably  worked  by  a miner”  or  “something  which 
turns  out  to  be  a valuable  source  of  information”  {New  Lexicon  738).  Notice  how 
money  (gold)  breeds  from  dirt.  Referring  to  American  society,  Knight  argues 
that  “Today  poverty  is  recognized  as  an  evil  and  money  as  the  potential  means  of 
much  good — of  enjoying  the  arts,  education,  travel,  medical  care,  philanthropy, 
as  well  as  the  material  necessities  and  comforts  of  life”  (11). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


3 


Some  American  proverbs  attest  to  the  idea  that  money  in  America  is  seen 
as  less  dirty  than,  for  example,  in  Brazil:  “All  money  is  clean,  even  if  it’s  dirty,” 
“Money  doesn’t  get  dirty”  (Mieder,  Dictionary  415),  and  “Money  doesn’t 
smell.”  Some  proverbs  compare  money  to  feces  but  the  classical  Freudian  equa- 
tion between  these  terms  (see  Freud  and  Ferenczi)  is  weak.  Thus,  the  parody 
“Money  talks,  bullshit  walks,”  makes  money  the  strong  element  and  feces  the 
weak  one.  The  payment  day  is  “when  the  eagle  shits.”  Although  here  there  is 
an  association  between  money  and  leces,  the  animal  that  provides  people  with 
money  is  not  the  filthy  pig  but  the  eagle,  the  symbol  of  the  United  States. 
And  there  is  an  instance  of  a direct  equation  of  money  to  feces:  “Money  is  like 
manure:  it’s  only  good  when  spread  around”  (Mieder,  Dictionary  WG) . But  the 
element  that  is  stressed  is  the  fertilizing  aspect  of  feces.  Since  in  the  earth  feces 
are  not  “matter  out  of  place,”  to  quote  Douglas’s  (1966)  expression,  in  this  par- 
ticular circumstance  money  and  manure  can  not  be  considered  dirty. 

Actually,  there  is  a strong  incidence  of  American  proverbs  that  lend  a posi- 
tive connotation  to  money.  To  give  some  examples:  “Money  talks”;  “Money 
makes  the  mare  go”;  “Make  money  honestly  if  you  can,  but  make  money”; 
“Money  is  power”;  “Money  is  the  sinew  of  trade”;  “Money  must  be  made,  or 
we  should  soon  have  the  wolf  at  the  door”;  “Nothing  but  money  is  sweeter 
than  honey”;  “Nothing  makes  money  faster  than  money.”  There  seem  to  be 
fewer  negative  proverbs  about  money.  Among  them  are:  “Money  can’t  buy 
happiness,”  and  “Money  isn’t  everything.”  But  even  the  biblical  proverb 
“Money  is  the  root  of  all  evil”  is  frequently  transformed  into  a parody  that 
negates  its  statement:  “Money  is  the  root  of  all  wealth”;  “Money  is  the  root 
of  the  Bank  of  America”;  “Money  is  the  root  of  all  evil  and  man  needs  roots”; 
“Money  is  the  root  of  all  evil  but  it  does  seem  to  grow  some  mighty  fine 
plants”;  “Money  is  the  root  of  all  evil  but  it’s  still  number  one  as  the  root  of  all 
idylls”;  “Money  is  the  root  of  all  evil  but  has  anyone  ever  discovered  a better 
route?”;  “Money  is  the  root  of  all  evil  and  also  of  a good  many  family  trees.” 
In  the  same  way,  “Money  can’t  buy  happiness”  is  transformed  into  “Flappi- 
ness  can’t  buy  money.”  And  “Money  isn’t  everything”  becomes  “Money  isn’t 
everything,  only  half”  “Virtue  is  its  own  reward”  becomes  “Money  is  its  own 
reward”  (Mieder  Proverb^. 

Franklin,  Emerson,  and  triumphant  capitalism 

Benjamin  Franklin  (1706-1790),  frequently  hailed  as  “the  first  civilized  Ameri- 
can” and  “the  apostle  of  modern  times”  and  who,  among  other  things,  was  a 


RUBEN  GEORGE  OLIVEN 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


successhil  inventor  and  businessman,  became  famous  also  for  his  “proverbs.” 
He  published  an  almanac  from  1733  to  1758  that  sold  about  10,000  copies 
each  year  and  which  “next  to  the  Bible  [...]  might  well  have  been  the  most 
frequent  reading  material  in  the  colonies”  (Mieder,  Proverbs  129).  Although 
most  ol  the  proverbs  in  his  Poor  Richard's  Almanack  yvtxt  not  invented  by  him, 
as  he  himself  made  clear,  they  were  associated  with  his  person.  “The  Way  to 
Wealth,”  a short  article  Franklin  published  in  1758,  is  an  example  of  Puritan 
ethics  rendered  through  105  proverbs  and  has  become  a classic.  In  it  Franklin 
goes  on  mentioning  proverbs  such  as  “God  helps  them  that  help  themselves”; 
“It  is  foolish  to  lay  out  money  in  a purchase  of  repentance”;  “It  is  hard  for  an 
empty  bag  to  stand  upright”;  “At  the  working  man’s  house  hunger  looks  in, 
but  dares  not  enter.”  In  Advice  to  a Young  Tradesman,  written  in  1748,  he  says: 
“Remember,  that  time  is  money  [...].  Remember,  that  credit  \s  money  [...]. 
Remember,  that  money  is  of  the  prolific,  generating  nature.  Money  can  beget 
money,  and  its  offspring  can  beget  more,  and  so  on  [...].  Remember  this  say- 
ing, The  good  paymaster  is  lord  of  another  mans  purse'  (qtd.  in  Weber  48—49). 
Franklin  represents  the  idea  of  the  self-made  man,  the  colonist  who  does  not 
wait  for  others  to  do  things  for  him. 

Ralph  Waldo  Emerson,  who  lived  a century  later  (1803-1882),  is  fre- 
quently considered  “the  last  puritan”  (Porte;  Santayana).  He  can  be  seen  as  a 
champion  of  the  virtues  of  capitalism,  stressing  the  ideas  of  thriftiness,  of  free 
enterprise,  etc.  In  his  essay  “Wealth,”  published  in  The  Conduct  of  Life,  he 
makes  an  apology  for  money  when  he  says:  “The  world  is  his,  who  has  money 
to  go  over  it”  (Emerson  994).  It  is  interesting  that  he  relates  wealth  to  nature. 
He  argues  that  “Wealth  is  in  applications  of  mind  to  nature;  and  the  art  of 
getting  rich  consists  not  in  industry,  much  less  in  saving,  but  in  a better  order, 
in  timeliness,  in  being  at  the  right  spot”  (989).  He  also  stressed  that  “Men  of 
sense  esteem  wealth  to  be  the  assimilation  of  nature  to  themselves,  the  con- 
verting of  the  sap  and  juices  of  the  planet  to  their  incarnation  and  nutriment 
of  their  design”  (993).  Emerson  goes  on  in  his  analogy  and  argues  that: 

It  is  a doctrine  of  philosophy,  that  man  is  a being  of  degrees;  that  there  is  nothing 
in  the  world,  which  is  not  repeated  in  his  body;  his  body  being  a sort  of  miniature 
or  summary  of  the  world:  then  that  there  is  nothing  in  his  body,  which  is  not 
repeated  as  in  a celestial  sphere  in  his  mind:  then,  there  is  nothing  in  his  brain, 
which  not  repeated  in  a higher  sphere,  in  his  moral  system.  Now  these  things  are 
so  in  Nature.  All  things  ascend,  and  the  royal  rule  of  economy  is,  that  it  should 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


5 


ascend  also,  or,  whatever  we  do  must  always  have  a higher  aim.  Thus  it  is  a 
maxim,  that  money  is  another  kind  of  blood.  Pecunia  alter  sanguis',  or,  the  estate  of 
man  is  only  a larger  kind  of  body,  and  admits  of  regimen  analogous  to  his  bodily 
circulations.  (1010;  emphasis  added) 

Speaking  about  fluids,  one  could  also  speculate  about  the  relation  of 
money  to  sperm.  In  this  perspective,  money  could  be  seen  as  something 
essentially  masculine  that  has  to  be  invested,  preferably  in  different  places  in 
a similar  way  to  the  reproductive  strategy  used  by  some  male  animals.  Actu- 
ally, Time  Magazine  featured  an  article  about  human  sexual  behavior  that  had 
on  its  first  page  a drawing  of  a plowed  field  in  which  men  are  simultaneously 
sowing  spermatozoids  and  one  dollar  bills  (Wright  44-45).  It  is  significant 
that  there  is  something  called  seed  money,  which  is  money  donated  to  be  used 
as  capital  that  will  bear  fruit,  that  is,  will  create  more  money. 

Blood  and  sperm  are  of  course  kept  in  blood  banks  and  sperm  banks.  And  a 
euphemistic  way  of  saying  you  are  going  to  urinate  is  to  say  you  are  going  “to 
spend  a penny.”  Bodily  fluids  end  up  being  tied  to  a debt  and  credit  system. 

In  a sense,  American  money  is  related  to  God.  Indeed,  on  all  American 
coins  and  bills  it  is  written,  “In  God  we  trust,”  in  a clear  association  between 
the  Almighty  and  money.  Former  Brazilian  President  Sarney  (1985-1990) 
decided  to  have  a similar  saying  on  Brazilian  bills  so  that  now  all  of  them  say 
“God  be  blessed”  (Deus  seja  louvado).  Considering  Brazil’s  staggering  inflation 
rate,  which  followed  the  new  currency  he  created,  making  money  worthless 
shortly  after  it  was  issued,  some  Brazilians  joked,  saying  that  the  sentence 
should  be  reversed  to  “God  help  us!”  (Deus  nos  acudaf).  But  the  fact  that 
money  bears  the  name  of  God  in  the  States  does  not  transform  it  into  a 
sacred  object.  In  fact,  you  can  see  in  several  tourist  spots  machines  that  press 
coins  until  they  become  unrecognizable  and  print  another  saying  on  them. 
In  Brazil,  bills  and  coins  belong  to  the  government  and  people  who  have 
them  are  only  their  bearers.  To  willfully  destroy  money  is  a legal  offense  in 
Brazil,  money  having  a status  similar  to  the  national  flag.  When  you  want  to 
say  someone  is  nuts  in  Brazil  you  would  say  he  or  she  is  burning  money.  In 
America,  there  is  something  called  mad  money.  According  to  the  dictionary 
it  is  the  “carfare  carried  by  a girl  on  a date  to  provide  a means  of  escaping  her 
escort  in  the  event  of  unwanted  familiarities;  broadly,  a small  sum  carried  by 
a woman  for  emergency  use”  (New  Lexicon  1357).  The  term  is  also  used  for 
money  you  spend  freely  without  any  financial  worry.  It  is  interesting  to  note 


RUBEN  GEORGE  OLIVEN 


6 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


that  the  definitions  given  by  the  dictionary  associate  the  mad  use  of  money 
with  women.  The  expression  “almighty  dollar”  might  sound  blasphemous 
and  contradictory  to  the  sentence  that  appears  on  American  money.  It  sug- 
gests, however,  that  the  power  entailed  in  money  is  a kind  of  manna  because 
of  its  qualities  of  power.  Money  talks! 

Things  are  different  in  the  United  States  South 

Franklin  and  Emerson  were  both  born  in  Boston.  Their  attitudes  towards 
money  represent  a more  capitalist  and  northern  view  of  a society  that  was 
based  on  free  labor  and  the  idea  of  the  self-made  man,  giving  equal  pos- 
sibilities to  everybody.  Analyzing  southern  folkways  prior  to  the  Civil  War 
regarding  money,  Ogburn,  in  an  article  originally  published  in  1943,  shows 
that  things  were  different  in  the  Old  South,  which  did  not  have  a very  devel- 
oped money  economy  because  farmers  were  mainly  self-sufficient.  Accord- 
ing to  him,  although  the  South  changed  after  the  Civil  War  and  money 
became  much  more  widely  used,  “some  ideas,  characteristic  of  the  days  of 
self-sufficing  plantation  economy,  have  persisted  into  the  industrial  civiliza- 
tion of  the  twentieth  century”  (199).  Examples  of  the  survival  of  attitudes 
of  a moneyless  economy  are  the  resistance  to  the  use  of  money  in  settling 
personal  differences,  the  fact  that  it  would  be  rude  to  come  quickly  to  busi- 
ness matters  without  any  preliminaries,  the  fact  that  tipping  would  be  less 
widespread  as  a custom  than  it  is  in  northern  cities,  expressions  such  as:  “this 
is  something  money  cannot  buy,”  etc.  Ogburn  argues  that  these  attitudes 
have  a lot  to  do  with  an  aristocratic  society  whose  wealth  is  based  on  land  not 
on  money,  and  which  looks  down  at  merchants  and  businessmen.  He  draws 
a comparison  with  seventeenth-  and  eighteenth-century  Europe,  which  was 
not  yet  a fully  monetary  economy:  “The  attitudes  of  the  aristocrats  were 
like  the  attitudes  of  a moneyless  economy.  They  high-hatted  tradesmen  and 
people  who  worked  for  money”  (203). 

Sure,  “money  is  making  an  inroad  into  such  personal  transactions,  but 
slowly  and  with  resentment”  (Ogburn  203).  Ogburn  sees  these  attitudes  as 
survivals  that  sooner  or  later  will  disappear: 

[S]everal  of  the  manners  and  customs  of  the  South  become  clearly  understood 
when  they  are  seen  as  survivals  of  attitudes  of  a moneyless  society.  Money  appears 
first  in  a limited  sphere  of  transactions  in  a society.  But  gradually  it  penetrates 
into  wider  and  wider  circles  of  exchanges  and  relationships.  But  in  doing  so, 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  7 

it  is  opposed.  Many  of  these  attitudes  of  the  South  after  the  Civil  War  are  best 
understood  as  oppositions  to  this  wider  use  of  money.  In  the  course  of  time,  these 
survivals  will  disappear,  and  the  adoption  of  money  will  be  as  complete  in  the 
South  as  elsewhere.  (206) 

Why  should  we  save? 

Some  of  the  attitudes  about  money  mentioned  by  Ogburn  as  applying  to  the 
Old  South  can  also  be  noticed  in  Brazil.  Being  one  of  the  last  countries  to  abol- 
ish slavery  (in  1888),  Brazil  has  no  tradition  of  valuing  work,  mainly  manual 
labor.  To  toil  in  Portuguese  is  mourejar,  something  that  according  to  the  Por- 
tuguese should  be  left;  to  the  moors.  A racist  expression  referring  to  hard  work 
is  trabalho  para  negro  (“work  for  a Negro”),  a direct  reference  to  slavery.  But 
even  after  the  abolition  of  slavery  and  introduction  of  wage  labor  in  factories, 
work  has  never  been  very  valued,  because  the  social  order  has  continued  to 
be  highly  exclusive.  Until  the  thirties  Brazil  was  an  essentially  rural  society. 

When  industrialization  and  urbanization  started  to  become  more  important 
in  the  thirties  there  was  a strong  reaction  against  working  and  the  growing 
monetization  of  life.  At  that  time  one  could  find  the  same  “resentment  against 
expressing  values  in  money”  about  which  Ogburn  speaks  in  relation  to  the 
Old  South  (205).  The  horror  ao  batente  (“hatred  of  manual  work”)  developed 
into  malandragem  (“idleness”),  which  can  be  seen  simultaneously  as  a survival 
strategy  and  a conception  of  the  world  through  which  some  segments  of  the 
lower  classes  refused  to  accept  the  discipline  and  monotony  associated  with 
the  wage-earning  world. 

Not  surprisingly,  an  important  Brazilian  icon  is  Macunaima,  the  Hero  with- 
out Character,  from  the  homonymous  modernist  novel  by  Mario  de  Andrade. 

Not  only  has  he  no  character  but  he  is  already  born  lazy.  Instead  of  being  a 
sin,  sloth  becomes  a genetic  and  cultural  trait  in  the  Brazilian  imagination. 

The  negative  side  of  labor  is  reflected  in  Brazilian  popular  music.  As  I have 
shown  elsewhere  (“A  malandragem”),  during  the  thirties  and  forties,  when 
an  urban-industrial  society  was  in  the  making  in  Brazil,  samba  composers 
used  to  eulogize  idleness.  Malandragem  developed  into  a way  of  life  and  a 
way  of  regarding  life.  Instead  of  developing  a work  ethic  (in  the  Weberian 
sense),  Brazilians  were  developing  a malandro  ethic.  This  was  so  widespread 
that  during  the  1937-45  dictatorship  the  State  decided  to  intervene  through 
its  censorship  department,  prohibiting  songs  that  praised  malandragem  and  at 
the  same  time  giving  prizes  to  those  that  praised  work. 


RUBEN  GEORGE  OLIVEN 


8 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


The  same  composers  who  praised  malandragem  also  depicted  money  as 
something  ignoble  and  as  something  generally  demanded  by  women  who 
didn’t  understand  that  the  men  from  whom  they  were  asking  it  had  some- 
thing much  more  precious  to  offer  them:  their  love  (Oliven,  “Money”).  Of 
course  one  can  see  here  a “sour  grapes  complex”:  knowing  they  would  never 
make  much  money  no  matter  how  hard  they  tried,  those  men  looked  down 
at  the  vil  metal  (“filthy  lucre”).  But  on  the  other  hand,  in  several  of  the  lyrics 
of  these  songs  one  can  notice  that  money  is  a realin^  from  which  one  cannot 
escape  in  a monetized  society.  Yet  all  of  this  is  seen  in  a melancholic  fashion. 
Nobody  is  happy  to  work.  And  money  after  all  is  vety  destructive:  it  ends  love 
and  friendship,  and  it  invites  falsehood  and  treason.  As  Noel  Rosa,  perhaps 
the  greatest  of  all  the  composers  of  the  thirties,  put  it  in  the  song  “Fita  Ama- 
rela”  (“Yellow  Ribbon”)  in  1933:  “I  haven’t  got  any  heirs  / and  I don’t  own  a 
single  penny  / I lived  owing  to  evetybody  / But  I didn’t  pay  anybody  back” 
{Ndo  tenho  herdeiros  / Nem  possuo  um  so  vintem  / Eu  vivi  devendo  a todos  / Mas 
ndo  paguei  a ninguerri).  Or,  as  another  composer  of  the  period,  Wilson  Batista, 
put  it  in  a song  called  “Meu  mundo  e hoje,  Eu  sou  assim”  (“My  World  is 
Today,  I’m  like  that”),  composed  in  1968  shortly  before  his  death:  “I  feel  sorty 
for  those  / Who  squat  until  the  floor  / Cheating  themselves  / For  money  or 
positions  / I have  never  taken  part  / In  this  huge  battalion  / Because  I know 
that  besides  the  flowers  / Nothing  else  goes  with  you  in  the  coffin”  (“Tenho 
pena  daqueles  / Que  se  agacham  ate  o chao  / Enganando  a si  mesmos  / For 
dinheiro  ou  posicao  / Nunca  tomei  parte  / Neste  enorme  batalhao  / Pois  sei 
que  alem  das  flores  / Nada  mais  vai  no  caixao”). 

Work  in  and  of  itself  has  never  been  something  to  be  proud  of  in  Brazil, 
even  if  most  of  the  population  works  more  hours  than  does  the  North  Ameri- 
can population.  If  you  ask  a Brazilian  what  he  is  doing  there  is  a strong  likeli- 
hood he’ll  reply:  “Nothing.”  Actually,  “to  do  nothing”  is  a native  categoty  that 
perhaps  makes  little  sense  in  English  but  which  is  full  of  meaning  in  Portuguese. 

Of  course,  people  in  Brazil  work  vety  hard  and  are  interested  in  money. 
Rebhun,  who  carried  out  ethnological  field  work  in  Brazil,  argues  that 

[..•1  impoverished  and  working  class  Northeast  Brazilians  claim  to  believe  in  a sharp 
moral  divide  between  (love)  and  what  they  call  interessesox  economic  interests. 
However,  in  practice,  the  two  are  inextricably  intertwined.  Especially  today,  in  this 
impoverished  region  characterized  by  a fractured,  unstable,  h\q)er  inflated  economy, 
the  depth  of  love  is  increasingly  measured  in  terms  of  the  worth  of  generosity.  In 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  9 

addition,  the  weakness  of  cash  makes  the  emotionally-loaded  relations  of  family  and 

social  network  increasingly  important  as  avenues  of  access  to  goods  and  services.  ( 1 ) 

Money  is  also  very  relative:  for  years  Brazil  had  a huge  foreign  debt  and 
every  Brazilian  who  was  born  already  owed  approximately  a thousand  dollars, 
if  one  divided  the  Brazilian  foreign  debt  by  the  number  of  inhabitants.  When 
Tancredo  Neves,  elected  President  in  1984,  was  asked  how  Brazil  would  pay 
its  foreign  debt  he  said  that  debts  have  to  be  paid  with  money,  not  with 
lives.  This  was  a message  to  the  moneylenders  of  the  world:  our  blood  is  not 
available!  Which  of  course  did  not  mean  our  money  was.  According  to  this 
idea,  large  debts  have  to  be  administered,  not  paid.  If  you  owe  a bank  a lot 
of  money,  it  will  certainly  respect  you.  The  Duke  of  Caxias,  patron  of  the 
Brazilian  army,  and  considered  a model  of  rectitude  (hence  the  half-deroga- 
tory word  “caxias”  for  anybody  excessively  serious),  becomes  a parody.  When 
fighting  the  war  against  Paraguay  in  the  last  century,  he  used  to  say  O dever 
acima  de  tudo  (“Duty  above  everything”),  to  which  the  people  nowadays  say 
Dever  [to  owe]  acima  de  tudo.  In  contrast,  an  American  bumper  sticker  says  “I 
owe,  I owe,  so  off  to  work  I go.” 

The  main  discovery  of  a North  American  Nobel  laureate  in  economics 
was  basically  that  people  invest  to  be  safe  when  they  grow  old.  This  of  course 
has  to  do  with  the  predictability  of  the  American  economy  and  long-term 
preparation  for  the  future.  Considering  the  high  rates  of  money  devaluation 
Brazil  has  experienced  in  the  past,  with  inflation  sometimes  reaching  50  per- 
cent a month,  money  is  always  slipping  out  of  your  hands.  So  the  best  thing 
you  can  do  with  money  in  Brazil  is  to  spend  it.  As  Brazilians  say,  “money  was 
made  to  be  spent”  {dinheiro  foi  feito  para  gastar).  In  these  circumstances,  the 
idea  of  investing  does  not  make  much  sense.  Actually,  several  Brazilian  eco- 
nomic plans  aimed  at  increasing  savings  had  the  opposite  effect.  Once  people 
have  a little  bit  more  money  they  immediately  spend  it,  buying  commodities 
because  they  suspect  that  with  inflation  the  value  of  their  savings  will  sooner 
or  later  be  eroded.  And  then  there  is  always  the  possibility  of  the  government 
freezing  all  savings  (as  it  did  for  eighteen  months  in  March  1990),  or  simply 
not  paying  back  compulsory  loans  built  into  the  price  of  cars  or  of  fuel. 

Catholics  versus  Protestants 

Saving  and  investing  leads  us  to  the  question  of  a “Catholic”  versus  a “Protes- 
tant” view  of  money.  In  his  letter  to  Timothy,  the  apostle  Paul  says  that  “The 


RUBEN  GEORGE  OLIVEN 


10 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


love  of  money  is  the  root  of  all  evil”  (1  Timothy  6.10).  We  know  that  usury  was 
condemned  by  Thomas  Aquinas  and  could  only  be  practiced  in  the  Middle  Ages 
by  non-Christians,  that  is,  Jews  (Le  Goff).  But  with  Protestantism,  more  specifi- 
cally with  Calvinism,  came  the  conception  that  success  (measured  by  profit)  was 
the  indication  that  the  chosen  vocation  pleased  God.  Dislike  of  work  was  seen  as 
a sign  of  failure  displeasing  to  God.  As  Weber  has  shown  in  The  Protestant  Ethic 
and  the  Spirit  of  Capitalism^  Calvinism  allowed  and  in  a sense  consecrated  the 
drive  to  become  rich,  thus  reconciling  wealth  with  a good  conscience. 

It  is  of  course  difficult  to  make  generalizations  about  Catholic  versus  Prot- 
estant views  of  money.  Schama  shows  that  in  Holland  in  the  Golden  Age 
“riches  seemed  to  provoke  their  own  discomfort,  and  affluence  cohabited 
with  anxiety.”  For  him: 

The  official  creeds  of  both  Calvinism  and  humanism,  then,  were  agreed  that  lucre 
was  indeed  filthy,  and  that  devotion  to  its  cult  constituted  a kind  of  polluting 
idolatry.  In  its  extreme  forms  of  avarice  and  cupidity  it  could  unhinge  the  con- 
science and  reason  and  turn  the  free  souls  into  fawning  slaves.  This  strong  sense 
of  the  reprehensible  nature  of  money-making  persisted,  even,  while  the  Dutch 
amassed  their  individual  and  collective  fortunes.  The  odd  consequence  of  this 
disparity  between  principles  and  practice  was  to  foster  expenditure  rather  than 
capital  accumulation,  as  a way  to  exonerate  oneself  from  the  suspicion  of  avarice. 
Admittedly,  the  forms  of  such  expenditure  had  to  be  collectively  sanctioned  and 
regarded  as  morally  unblemished  by  clergy  and  laity  alike.  (334) 

Catholicism  is  frequently  seen  as  an  important  influence  on  Brazilian  cul- 
ture. Moog  has  even  tried  to  discuss  the  Weberian  thesis  in  a comparison 
between  Brazil  and  the  United  States.  Whereas  Brazilian  culture  would  be 
characterized  by  the  “dislike  of  useful  work  and  all  that  is  connected  to  it: 
initiative,  organization,  cooperation,  and  the  technical  and  scientific  spirit,” 
in  North  American  culture,  “the  sanctity  of  debt  and  the  dignity  of  labor  are 
notions  that  neither  the  Puritan,  nor  the  Yankee  or  the  crypto-Yankee  are 
disposed  to  let  perish”  (Moog  210,  154). 

As  a matter  of  fact,  Brazilian  authors  who  wrote  in  the  thirties  frequently 
argued  that  Brazil  was  not  a capitalist  society.  Thus  Holanda,  who  coined  the 
term  “cordiality”  to  explain  Brazilian  society,  maintained  that  it  was  char- 
acterized by  social  relations  that  were  personalized,  affective,  particularistic, 
and  clientelistic.  In  a similar  perspective,  although  from  a different  political 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  11 

Standpoint,  Vianna  maintained  that  in  Brazil  there  prevailed  what  he  called  a 
pre-capitalist  mentality  or  spirit,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  materially  the  coun- 
try was  capitalist  (see  Vianna;  and  Gomes  “Dialectica”  and  “Etica”). 

Dumont  establishes  a contrast  between  what  he  calls  hierarchical  societ- 
ies and  egalitarian  societies.  The  first  are  based  on  the  concept  of  person, 
whereas  the  second  are  based  on  the  concept  of  a free  individual.  India  would 
be  the  classical  example  of  a hierarchical  society  whereas  America  would  be 
the  most  developed  example  of  an  egalitarian  one.  Drawing  on  Dumont’s 
model,  DaMatta  argues  that  today  Brazil  is  somehow  in  between  hierarchi- 
cal and  egalitarian  societies.  Whereas  the  United  States  tends  to  be  a society 
very  much  based  on  the  egalitarian  individualistic  model,  Brazil  is  closer  to 
the  hierarchical  and  personal  model.  We  would  have  a dilemma  between  the 
adherence  to  an  impersonal  individualistic  model  that  exists  formally  in  Bra- 
zilian laws,  and  the  day-to-day  tendency  to  constantly  revert  to  personal  rela- 
tions. Hence  the  greater  aversion  to  deal  directly  with  money  and  the  more 
face-to-face  relations  involved  in  transactions. 

DaMatta  also  goes  into  the  Catholicism  versus  Protestantism  question. 
Commenting  on  the  expression  dinheiro  nao  traz  felicidade'  (“money  does 
not  bring  happiness”),  he  argues  that  it  “adds  to  the  underlying  cultural  equa- 
tion that  tells  how  work  corresponds  to  punishment  and  how  the  accumula- 
tion of  wealth  equals  something  dirty  or  illicit”  {Carnivals  181).  Analyzing 
the  cultural  matrix  of  Brazilian  inflation,  he  argues: 

[0]f  course  we  want  to  have  money,  but  we  can  compensate  for  its  absence 
through  the  presence  filled  with  the  value  of  friends,  of  health,  of  “education” 
and,  above  all,  of  “happiness.”  This  incapacity  to  regard  money — and  above  all 
the  possession  of  money — as  a positive  activity,  as  a hegemonic  measure  of  com- 
petence and  success,  as  the  aim  of  all  things,  creates  areas  of  tolerance  and  of  social 
compensation  that  seem  important  in  the  Brazilian  case.  {Conta  172) 

The  future  is  not  ours  to  say 

Brazil  is  a society  of  immense  social  and  economic  inequalities  and,  according 
to  data  from  the  World  Bank,  has  one  of  the  worst  income  distributions  of 
the  world,  the  minimum  monthly  wage  being  approximately  one  hundred 
and  fifty  dollars.  It  is  a society  that  has  experienced  a “conservative  modern- 
ization,” in  which  the  traditional  has  been  combined  with  the  modern  and 
change  articulated  with  continuity  (Oliven,  “Anthropology”).  Since  Brazil  is 


RUBEN  GEORGE  OLIVEN 


12 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


an  urban  society,  its  population  has  to  deal  constantly  with  money.  Although 
access  to  money  (and  goods  and  services)  varies  enormously  according  to 
social  class,  money  is  a reality  that  cannot  be  avoided,  in  spite  of  what  the 
samba  composers  at  the  beginning  of  the  last  century  wished.  But  although 
the  monetization  of  life  has  increased,  there  is  a lot  of  resistance  to  accepting 
money  as  a central  value.  This  can  be  seen  either  as  the  “sour  grapes  complex” 
that  I mentioned  when  referring  to  popular  music  or  as  a domination  model 
based  on  a cultural  tradition  that  tries  to  give  a negative  connotation  to  mate- 
rial things.  This  is  part  of  an  ongoing  debate  in  Brazil  about  the  question  of 
our  national  identity.  All  sorts  of  intellectuals  have  at  some  point  joined  this 
debate,  which  is  constantly  brought  up  and  deals  with  the  question  of  defin- 
ing our  main  traits  (Oliven,  “State”). 

Some  recent  events  point  in  the  direction  of  a growing  monetization  of 
life  in  Brazil.  The  number  of  credit  cards  has  increased  in  an  impressive  way. 
In  2005  there  were  61  million  credit  cards  and  158  million  debit  cards  (Mat- 
tos  Bl).  There  is  an  estimate  that  by  the  end  of  2006  there  will  be  77  million 
credit  cards  {Folha  B8). 

Until  the  end  of  the  eighties,  Brazilian  credit  cards  could  only  be  used 
inside  the  country.  This  was  a way  of  controlling  foreign  currency  expendi- 
tures. When  finally  the  government  allowed  credit  cards  to  be  used  abroad, 
several  banks  started  operating  with  international  companies  like  Visa,  Mas- 
terCard, American  Express,  etc.  In  1995,  the  government-controlled  Banco 
do  Brasil,  Brazil’s  largest  bank,  had  an  advertisement  about  their  Visa  card, 
which  is  called  Ourocard.  It  said:  “Visa  Ourocard,  your  international  iden- 
tity.” There  is  a double  message  here.  The  advertisement  points  to  the  fact 
that  if  you  are  rich  and  can  afford  to  travel  abroad  and  show  your  Visa  Ouro- 
card you  will  have  established  your  identity  as  a respectable  consumer.  On  the 
other  hand,  it  hints  that  being  national  is  no  longer  a question  for  Brazilians; 
what  is  important  in  a globalized  world  is  to  be  international,  and  the  credit 
card  does  it  for  you. 

The  United  States  is  frequently  depicted  as  a country  where  monetiza- 
tion— the  increase  in  the  proportion  of  all  goods  and  services  bought  and 
sold  by  means  of  money — has  taken  place  fully.  In  reality,  this  process  is  much 
more  complex,  as  Zelizer  shows  when  she  argues  that  there  are  different  sorts 
of  monies  in  America:  gift  certificates,  Christmas  savings  accounts,  food 
stamps,  etc.  But  America  is  probably  the  place  where  commoditization  is  a 
process  that  has  extended  to  all  spheres  of  life.  In  this  sense  it  vindicates  Marx’s 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


13 


idea  of  Vergeldlichung  (monetization)  of  society.  It  has  become  a central  value 
about  which  no  bones  are  made.  But,  as  I have  tried  to  show,  in  countries 
with  different  cultural  traditions  like  Brazil,  although  capitalism  is  holding 
sway,  money  is  not  (yet?)  the  driving  force  that  shapes  behavior  and  senti- 
ment. One  can  only  speculate  if  monetization  is  a trend  that  sooner  or  later  is 
going  to  take  place  in  countries  that  are  going  through  economic  growth  like 
Brazil  or  if  their  cultural  specificities  will  work  as  counter-balancing  checks. 


Works  Cited 

Andrade,  Mario  de.  Macunaima:  o heroi  sem  nenhum  cardter.  Belo  Horizonte:  Villarica,  1993. 
Print. 

DaMatta,  Roberto.  Carnivals,  Rogues,  and  Heroes:  An  Interpretation  of  the  Brazilian  Dilemma. 
South  Bend:  U of  Notre  Dame  P,  1991.  Print. 

. Conta  de  mentiroso.  Sete  ensaios  de  antropologia  brasileira.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Rocco,  1993. 

Print. 

Douglas,  Mary.  Purity  and  Danger:  An  analysis  of  Concepts  of  Pollution  and  Taboo.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1966.  Print. 

Dumont,  Louis.  Homo  Hierarchicus.  The  Caste  System  and  Its  Implications.  Chicago:  U of 
Chicago  P,  1980.  Print. 

Emerson,  Ralph  Waldo.  Essays  and  Lectures.  New  York:  Literary  Classics  of  the  United  States, 
1983.  Print. 

Ferenczi,  Sandor.  “The  Ontogenesis  of  the  Interest  in  Money.”  Sex  in  Psychoanalysis.  New  York: 
Dover,  1956.  Print. 

Freud,  Sigmund.  “Character  and  Anal  Erotism.”  Collected  Papers.  London:  Hogarth,  1953.  Print. 

Gomes,  Angela  de  Castro.  “A  dialetica  da  tradi(;ao.”  Revista  Brasileira  de  Ciencias  Sociais  5.12 
(1990):  15-27.  Print. 

. “A  etica  Catolica  e o espirito  do  pre-capitalismo.”  Ciencia  Hoje^.'b'l  (1989):  23-8.  Print. 

Holanda,  Sergio  Buarque  de.  Raizes  do  Brasil.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Jose  Olympio,  1969.  Print. 

The  King  James  Bible  1957  (1611). 

Knight,  James  A.  For  the  Love  of  Money.  Human  Behavior  and  Money.  Philadelphia:  Lippincott, 
1968.  Print. 

Le  Goff,  Jacques.  Your  Money  or  Your  Life.  Economy  and  Religion  in  the  Middle  Ages.  New  York: 
Zone,  1988.  Print. 

Mattos,  Adriana.  “Comercio  impoe  limite  a uso  de  cartoes.”  Folha  de  Sao  Paulo  26  June  2006: 
B 1.  Print. 

Mieder,  Wofgang.  American  Proverbs.  A Study  of  Texts  and  Contexts.  New  York:  Lang,  1989. 
Print. 

. A Dictionary  of  American  Proverbs.  New  York:  Oxford  UP,  1991.  Print. 

Moog,  Clodomiro  Vianna.  Bandeirantes  and  Pioneers.  New  York:  George  Braziller,  1964.  Print. 
New  Lexicon  Webster’s  Dictionary  of  English  Language.  New  York:  Lexicon  Publications,  1988.  Print. 


RUBEN  GEORGE  OLIVEN 


14 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Ogburn,  William  F.  “Southern  Folkways  Regarding  Money.”  On  Culture  and  Social  Change. 
Chicago:  U ot  Chicago  P,  1964.  Print. 

Oliven,  Ruben  Ceorge.  “Anthropology  and  Brazilian  Society.”  Current  Anthropology  30.4 
(1989):  510-14.  Print. 

. “Looking  at  Money  in  America.”  Critique  of  Anthropology  18.1  (1998):  35-59.  Print. 

. “A  malandragem  na  musica  popular  brasileira.”  Latin  American  Music  Review  5.1 

(1984):  66-96.  Print. 

. “Money  in  Brazilian  Popular  Music.”  Studies  in  Latin  American  Popular  Culture  18 

(1999):  115-137.  Print. 

. “State  and  Culture  in  Brazil.”  Studies  in  Latin  American  Popular  Culture  5 (1986): 

180-85.  Print. 

Porte,  Joel.  Representative  Man.  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  in  His  Time.  New  York:  Oxford  UP,  1979. 
Print. 

Rebhun,  L.  A.  “Love  and  Interests.  Negotiating  the  Value  of  Cash  and  Sentiment  under 
Economic  Disruption  in  Northeast  Brazil.”  Paper  presented  at  the  92nd  Annual  Meeting  of 
the  American  Anthropological  Association,  1993.  Print. 

Santayana,  George.  The  Last  Puritan:  A Memoir  in  the  Form  of  a Novel.  New  York:  Scribner, 
1936.  Print. 

Schama,  Simon.  The  Embarrassment  of  Riches.  An  Lnterpretation  of  Dutch  Culture  in  the  Golden 
Age.  New  York:  Knopf,  1987.  Print. 

“Uso  de  cartoes  de  credito  e debito  cresce  40%. ” Folha  de  Sao  Paulo  5 May  2006:  B 8.  Print. 

Vianna,  Francisco  Jose  de  Oliveira.  Histdria  social  da  economia  capitalista  no  Brasil.  Belo 
Horizonte/Rio  de  Janeiro:  Itatiaia/UFF,  1987.  Print. 

Weber,  Max.  The  Protestant  Ethic  and  the  Spirit  of  Capitalism.  New  York:  Scribner’s,  1958.  Print. 

Webster’s  Unabridged  Third  New  International  Dictionary  of  the  English  Language.  Springfield, 
MA:  Merriam-Webster,  1986.  Print. 

Wright,  Robert.  “Our  Cheating  Hearts.”  Time  15  Aug.  1994:  44-52.  Print. 

Zelizer,  Viviana  A.  The  Social  Meaning  of  Money.  New  York:  Basic,  1994.  Print. 


Ruben  George  Oliven  is  professor  of  anthropology  at  the  Federal  University  of  Rio 
Grande  do  Sul  in  Porto  Alegre,  Brazil,  and  member  of  the  Brazilian  Academy  of  Sciences. 
He  received  his  PhD  from  the  University  of  London  (London  School  of  Economics  and 
Political  Science)  and  has  been  a visiting  professor  at  several  universities,  among  them  the 
University  of  California  at  Berkeley,  Brown  University,  Dartmouth  College,  University 
of  Paris,  and  University  of  Leiden.  He  was  the  president  of  the  Brazilian  Anthropological 
Association  and  of  the  Brazilian  Association  for  Graduate  Studies  and  Research  in  Social 
Sciences.  He  has  won  the  Erico  Vannucci  Mendes  Prize  for  Distinguished  Contribution  to  the 
Study  of  Brazilian  Culture.  He  is  the  author  of  Tradition  Matters,  published  by  Columbia 
University  Press.  His  research  interests  are:  symbolic  meanings  of  money,  national  and 
regional  identities,  and  popular  music.  Email:  oliven@uol.com.br 


Brazilian  Gold  and  the  Commercial  Sector  in  Oporto, 
1710-1750 


A.  J.  R.  Russell-Wood 


Abstract.  In  the  historiography  on  the  Atlantic  in  the  Early  Modern 
period,  Oporto  has  been  primarily  associated  with  emigration  and 
the  export  of  wine.  This  is  an  essay  in  compensatory  history  in  that  it 
argues  that  Oporto,  already  the  major  city  of  northern  Portugal  and 
a major  emporium,  became  a preferred  (with  Lisbon)  destination  for 
consignments  of  Brazilian  gold.  As  a player  in  the  Atlantic  bullion- 
carrying trade,  Oporto  became  an  active  participant  in  a European 
network  of  institutions,  merchants,  bankers,  and  individuals,  which 
disseminated  Brazilian  gold  from  Portugal  to  northern  Europe  and  as 
far  east  as  Italy.  Oporto  was  the  hub  from  which  consignments  were 
distributed  throughout  northern  Portugal.  Based  on  ships’  manifests, 
which  indicate  consignors  and  consignees  (individual,  institutional, 
lay,  and  clerical),  this  essay  focuses  on  recipients  identifiable  as  part 
of  the  commercial  sector  in  Oporto  and  provides  new  information 
on  partnerships  of  British  businessmen,  on  Portuguese-Brazilian 
collaboration,  and  on  resident  Dutch  and  German  merchants.  Brazilian 
gold  contributed  to  an  urban  florescence  that  embraced  art,  architecture 
and  the  fine  arts,  social  philanthropy  and  public  health,  and  urban 
infrastructure  in  the  first  half  of  the  eighteenth  century. 


The  period  from  1695  to  1750  was  characterized  by  C.  R.  Boxer  as  the 
“golden  age”  of  Brazil.  In  the  1690s,  alluvial  gold  had  been  found  in  the 
Rio  das  Velhas  region.  The  next  half  century  witnessed  multiple  gold  strikes 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23124  (2012):  15-26. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


16 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


in  many  regions,  especially  in  Minas  Gerais,  Mato  Grosso,  and  Goias;  gold 
rushes  in  seriatum\  measures  for  the  administration  and  fiscalization  of  gold 
production;  mining  encampments;  chartered  towns;  and  new  captaincies  to 
impose  royal  government.  Overall,  gold  production  increased  through  the 
1750s,  but  already  in  the  early  1740s  in  Minas  Gerais  there  were  signs  of 
decline.'  The  impact  on  Portugal  was  both  positive  and  negative.  During  the 
reign  of-  Dom  Joao  V (1706-50),  Portugal  was  represented  at  international 
coLincil  tables  and  the  king  was  admired  in  the  courts  of  Europe.  Lisbon  was 
a major  European  gateway  to  the  wider  world.  Internationalism  was  a promi- 
nent feature  of  Portugal  during  his  reign.  Unfortunately,  much  of  this  gold  left 
Portugal,  notably  for  England  both  legally  and  clandestinely,  and  for  northern 
Europe,  to  pay  for  imports,  or  was  spent  on  royal  palaces,  coaches,  and  the 
king’s  extravagant  lifestyle,  and  was  not  invested  in  building  a strong  national 
financial  infrastructure.  The  unquestioned  preeminence  of  Lisbon  made  it 
almost  synonymous  with  Portugal,  and  part  of  my  purpose  here  is  to  engage 
in  an  essay  in  compensatory  history  by  focusing  on  the  north  of  Portugal  and 
the  great  city  of  Oporto,  which  achieved  new  glories  in  the  eighteenth  century. 
Connections  between  the  north  of  Portugal  and  Brazil  may  be  expressed  in 
two  words:  emigration  and  commerce.  The  former  has  received  much  schol- 
arly attention;  less  has  been  paid  to  the  relationship  between  Brazilian  gold 
and  Oporto’s  commercial  sector. 

Oporto  was  the  major  demographic,  administrative,  commercial,  and 
urban  center  of  northern  Portugal.  It  was  an  episcopal  see,  and  counted  a 
Court  of  Appeals  (Relagao),  fine  churches,  impressive  public  buildings,  and 
imposing  private  residences.  In  the  eighteenth  century  there  was  demo- 
graphic growth.  Provisional  data  suggest  that  the  city’s  population  increased 
from  16,086  souls  in  1623  to  24,883  in  1732,  and  more  than  doubled  over 
the  next  half  century.  In  1710  the  city  was  divided  into  two  bairros,  one  with 
four  parishes  and  the  other  with  three.  Location  on  the  right  bank  of  the 
River  Douro,  a harbor  bar,  and  rock-infested  passage  from  the  mouth  to  the 
port  did  not  stop  Oporto  from  being  an  emporium  with  a multi-national 
merchant  community  and  strong  maritime  links  to  northern  Europe.  This 
period  saw  a shift  of  the  commercial  center  from  the  Rua  dos  Mercadores 
to  the  Rua  Nova  and  foundation  of  the  British  Factory.  Commodities  from 
Brazil  flooded  into  Portugal:  sugar,  molasses,  manioc  flour,  honey,  fish  oil, 
cotton,  coffee,  cacao,  tanned  hides  and  skins,  tobacco,  construction  and  fine 
woods,  resins  and  gums,  and  drogas  do  sertao.  These  found  a ready  market  in 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


17 


Oporto  and  were  also  distributed  throughout  northern  Portugal.  Exports  to 
Brazil  included  salt,  olive  oil,  codfish,  cloth,  tools,  ironware,  manufactured 
goods,  items  of  personal  adornment,  and  religious  objects.  One  commodity 
associated  specifically  with  Oporto  was  wine,  already  being  exported  to  Brazil 
in  the  seventeenth  century.^ 

The  thesis  posited  in  this  essay  is  that  Brazilian  gold  made  Oporto  part  of 
a network  of  bullion  consignments  that  embraced  Brazil,  Portugal,  northern 
Europe,  and  extended  eastwards  to  Italy.  The  focus  is  on  the  commercial  sec- 
tor in  Oporto.  This  essay  also  calls  attention  to  a source  underutilized  by  social 
historians.  This  is  the  collection  of  Manifestos  das  naus  in  the  Casa  da  Moeda 
in  Lisbon.  For  the  period  1710-1750,  these  number  756  bound  volumes 
containing  between  200,000  and  250,000  individual  declarations.^  Consign- 
ments of  gold,  silver,  and  precious  stones  had  to  be  declared  in  manifests  of 
vessels  originating  in  Brazilian  ports  and  bound  for  Portugal.  Such  declara- 
tions were  made  prior  to  departure  or  on  board.^  Consignments  were  of  gold 
coins  struck  in  colonial  mints  in  Brazil;  of  gold  bars  forged  and  registered  in 
colonial  foundry  houses;  of  gold  dust  and  nuggets;  of  gold  jewelry  and  per- 
sonal objects  such  as  toothpicks  and  buttons;  and  of  religious  objects  such  as 
crosses  and  medallions  of  Nossa  Senhora  da  Concei(;ao.  There  were  also  silver 
coins,  bars,  and  objects  worked  in  silver,  originating  in  Spanish  America. 

Manifests  identify  consignors  and  consignees.  The  consignor  was  the  per- 
son who  delivered  the  consignment  on  board  in  a Brazilian  port.  This  per- 
son might  be  acting  on  his/her  own  behalf,  as  agent  for  another  person  in 
Brazil,  or  as  agent  for  the  consignee  who  would  take  delivery  in  Portugal. 
Persons  returning  from  Brazil  to  Portugal  often  traveled  on  the  same  vessel 
as  their  consignments.  The  consignee  was  the  person  to  whom  final  delivery 
was  made.  Consignees  not  resident  in  Lisbon  named  an  agent  to  act  on  their 
behalf  References  to  the  place  of  residence  of  a consignee  or  his/her  agent 
were  as  general  as  “morador  no  Porto”  or  as  specific  as  “Porto  em  o lugar 
do  ouro.”^  Manifests  also  record  the  name  of  the  person  at  whose  financial 
risk  the  consignment  was  sent.  This  could  be  the  consignor,  consignee,  or  a 
third  party.  Often  unclear  is  whether  a consignor  was  acting  on  his  behalf  or 
on  behalf  of  an  institution.  Delivery  of  consignments  to  mints  in  Lisbon  or 
Oporto  was  registered  by  the  respective  officials;  unrecorded  is  whether,  once 
they  left  the  mints,  consignments  were  delivered  to  consignees. 

Most  vessels  sailing  to  Brazil  had  Lisbon  as  their  home  port  but,  especially 
before  1720,  there  are  examples  of  vessels  whose  home  port  was  Oporto.  Their 


A.  J.  R.  RUSSELL-WOOD 


18 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


destinations  were  most  frequently  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Salvador,  and  Pernambuco.^ 
Even  when  vessels  leh  Oporto  tor  Brazil,  their  first  port  of  call  on  return  was 
Lisbon.  Captains  from  Oporto  followed  procedures  outlined  in  this  exam- 
ple. On  24  May  1713,  Manuel  Saldanha  Marinho,  captain  and  master  of  the 
Bom  JesLis  e Sao  Domingos  e Nossa  Senhora  do  Bom  Sucesso,  went  to  the 
mint  in  Oporto  and  received  a book  for  manifests  from  Pedro  da  Costa  Lima, 
Superintendent  of  the  Casa  da  Moeda  and  variously  styled  as  Superintendente 
das  fabricas  d’ElRei  da  Ribeira  do  Ouro  or  Superintendente  das  fabricas  dos 
galioes  da  Ribeira  das  Naus.  The  book  had  been  signed  and  pages  numbered 
by  the  Desembargador  Manuel  da  Cunha  Sardinha,  in  his  capacity  as  an  offi- 
cial with  jurisdiction  in  fiscal  matters  concerning  the  royal  treasury.  Marinho 
sailed  for  Pernambuco.  Homeward-bound,  on  12  July  1714  at  5*^  North  and 
42°  20’  West,  he  posted  on  the  main  mast  an  edital  informing  passengers 
and  crew  who  had  not  yet  declared  consignments  of  gold  to  do  so.  On  14 
August  the  captain  closed  the  vessel’s  manifest  and  no  more  declarations  were 
accepted.  Officials  came  on  board  in  Lisbon.  Penalties  were  imposed  on  those 
found  in  possession  of  undeclared  gold.  Consignments  were  delivered  to  the 
mint.  Those  consignments  for  Oporto  continued  on  board  and  were  delivered 
to  the  mint  in  Oporto  for  final  clearance.^ 

The  paradigm  of  consignor-consignee  for  consignments  from  Brazil  to 
Oporto  differed  significantly  from  the  model  for  consignments  to  Lisbon.  A 
substantial  proportion,  both  by  numbers  and  value,  of  consignments  for  final 
delivery  in  Lisbon  were  institutional.  These  fell  into  three  categories:  consign- 
ments for  the  royal  exchequer;  for  institutions  under  the  royal  protection;  and 
consignments  from  overseas  provinces  of  religious  orders  and  of  the  Society  of 
Jesus  to  procurators  in  Lisbon.  Rarely  are  any  of  these  categories  represented  in 
consignments  to  Oporto.^  Thus,  most  consignors  in  Brazil  of  consignments  to 
Oporto  were  individual,  rather  than  institutional.  They  were  predominantly 
male,  reflecting  emigration  patterns  from  the  north  of  Portugal  to  Brazil.^ 
Many  were  priests,  a reflection  also  of  the  disproportionate  number  of  young 
men  from  the  north  of  Portugal  who  took  their  vows.  Rarely  were  consignors 
identified  other  than  by  name,  but  the  context  shows  that  often  they  acted  on 
behalf  of  individuals  in  Brazil  or  as  agents  for  individuals  or  business  partner- 
ships in  Oporto.  The  small  amount  of  silver  suggests  that  their  commercial 
networks  did  not  include  trade  with  Spanish  America. 

There  was  also  the  practice  of  designating  a person  to  be  responsible  for 
handing  in  consignments  in  a Brazilian  port,  making  a declaration  of  their 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


19 


value  and  nature,  and  then  accompanying  these  himself  as  a passenger  on 
the  same  vessel  to  Lisbon  and  even  on  to  Oporto.  An  example  of  bundling 
together  a number  of  consignments  was  the  case  of  Joseph  Teixeira  e Sousa, 
a native  and  resident  of  Oporto.  Teixeira  e Sousa  was  a passenger  homeward- 
bound  from  Salvador  in  1721.  He  made  individual  declarations  for  the  fol- 
lowing consignments  of  gold  on  vessels  of  the  fleet  on  which  he  was  traveling: 
10,000  gold  moedas  valued  at  4$800  reis-,  1 1,000  moedas",  a further  7650 
moedas\  9843  oitavasoi gold  dust,  divided  among  58  packages  (embrulhos)  of 
different  individuals;  54  packages  totaling  7580  oitavaso^ gold  dust  for  vari- 
ous people;  a further  1299  oitavas  of  dust  at  the  risk  of  a consortium  in  Vila 
do  Conde.'®  Teixeira  e Sousa’s  role  was  limited  to  delivering  consignments 
on  board,  making  the  respective  declarations,  and  taking  delivery  on  arrival 
in  Lisbon.  He  was  not  financially  liable  for  the  above  consignments.  Other 
than  a consignment  of  1130  moedas  and  6379  oitavas  of  dust,  where  risk  was 
assumed  by  persons  in  Recife  and  Bahia,  in  all  other  cases  risk  was  assumed 
by  persons  in  Portugal.  Teixeira  e Sousa  had  receipts  for  consignments  and 
recorded  each  consignment  in  a caderno,  but  there  is  no  indication  of  whether 
or  not  consignees  were  in  the  commercial  sector.  His  only  personal  interest 
was  in  a consignment  of  467.5  moedas  that  he  handed  in  and  of  which  he 
would  take  delivery,  for  which  he  shared  the  risk  with  the  heirs  of  Francisco 
Dias,  a sometime  resident  of  Oporto,  and  with  other  consignees  in  Oporto, 
and  further  consignments  of  250  moedas,  of  939.5  oitavas,  and  of  400  moedas 
respectively  for  which  he  personally  assumed  sole  risk.'^  A fellow  passenger 
was  Captain  Manuel  do  Vale  de  Carvalho,  a resident  of  Oporto  who  handed 
in  a consignment  of  350  moedas,  for  which  he  had  receipts  for  individuals  in 
Entre  Douro  e Minho  who  assumed  risk,  and  of  which  he  would  take  delivery 
in  Lisbon. Marq:al  de  Lima  Veiga,  returning  in  1722,  handed  in  2152  moe- 
das of  4$800  reis  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  at  the  risk  of  third  parties,  and  intended 
to  take  delivery  in  Lisbon  in  his  role  as  carregador  detvA  then  make  final  delivery 
in  Oporto.  Aware  of  the  dangers  of  an  Atlantic  crossing,  he  made  provision 
that,  in  his  absence,  the  consignment  be  delivered  to  Pe.  Domingos  Alvares 
da  Veiga  or,  failing  him,  to  the  Procurador  da  mercancia  da  cidade  do  Porto. 
There  are  also  examples  of  persons  handing  in  consignments  in  Brazil  and 
later  taking  final  delivery  in  Oporto.  Naval  personnel  were  also  involved  in 
such  consignments.  The  pilot  on  the  Santa  Cruz,  homeward-bound  from 
Salvador  to  Oporto  in  1713,  was  responsible  for  consignments  of  gold  dust, 
a gold  bar,  and  coins  for  delivery  in  Oporto.  Manuel  da  Silva,  ship’s  surgeon 


A.  J.  R.  RUSSELL-WOOD 


20 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


on  the  Santa  Cruz  das  Portas  from  Salvador  in  1715,  declared  consignments 
of  gold  dust  and  a gold  bar  for  delivery  in  Oportod^ 

Consignments  were  of  gold  dust,  bars,  and  coins.  Gold  dust  was  weighed 
in  oitavas{\  oitava  = 72  graosov  grains)  and  in  1724  fluctuated  between  1$515 
rmand  1$520  reis  per  oitava.  Bars  were  forged  in  Brazilian  smelting-houses 
from  gold  on  which  the  royal  fifth  had  been  paid.  Each  bar  was  stamped 
with  the  royal  seal  and  numbered  and  a matching  certificate  issued  stating  its 
weight.  Gold  coins  were  the  most  common  form  of  consignment.  Most  fre- 
quent were  moedas  of  4$800  reis  struck  in  Brazil;  less  frequent  were  dobroeso^ 
24$000  reis  (known  as  dobroes  grande^  and  dobroesoi  12$800  reis  or  12$000 
reis  (known  in  Brazil  as  meio  dobroes).  This  gold  was  transported  in  containers, 
packages,  and  sewn  wrappings.  The  27,800  oitavas  of  gold  dust  destined  for 
Ventura  de  Azevedo  in  Oporto  were  contained  in  a small  trunk. 

By  volume  and  by  value,  the  lion’s  share  of  consignments  had  Lisbon  as 
their  final  destination,  but  manifests  show  Oporto  as  the  final  destination  for  a 
considerable  amount  of  bullion.  Consignments  for  Oporto  were  transshipped 
in  Lisbon  or  continued  on  in  the  same  vessel  in  which  they  had  crossed  the 
Atlantic.  It  was  not  unusual  for  all  consignments  on  a vessel  whose  home  port 
was  Oporto  to  be  exclusively  for  delivery  there.  Much  in  evidence  was  the  large 
number  of  consignments  of  gold  dust  for  delivery  in  Oporto,  especially  on 
vessels  from  Pernambuco  prior  to  1720,  but  most  fleets  from  Rio  de  Janeiro 
and  Salvador  also  carried  consignments  of  gold  dust  for  Oporto.  A passen- 
ger returning  home  from  Pernambuco  to  Oporto  in  1714  accompanied  three 
consignments  of  gold  dust.  Likewise,  Joseph  Domingues  Maia  of  Oporto,  a 
passenger  on  Nossa  Senhora  da  Palma  e S.  Pedro  from  Salvador  to  Lisbon  in 
1721,  declared  6804.5  oitavas  gold  dust,  of  which  he  would  take  delivery  in 
Lisbon  and  which  would  then  be  delivered  to  various  locations  as  per  receipts. 
Domingues  Maia  was  also  accompanying  four  consignments  totaling  15557.5 
moedas.  An  alternative  to  take  delivery  of  two  of  these  consignments  totaling 
5974.5  moedasyN2&  the  ubiquitous  Joseph  Teixeira  e Sousa.*^ 

The  use  of  ships’  manifests  as  sources  of  information  on  commercial  prac- 
tices in  Oporto,  and  on  the  merchant  community  in  particular,  presents  a 
challenge.  Unless  the  occupation  of  the  consignor  or  the  consignee  is  explic- 
itly stated,  it  is  impossible  to  differentiate  a merchant  or  businessman  {homem 
de  negocios)  from  a person  with  no  commercial  interests.  Nor  is  there  suffi- 
cient information  to  reconstruct  a hierarchy  of  merchants,  ranging  from  those 
engaging  in  oceanic  or  long-distance  trade  to  humble  shopkeepers.  Some 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  21 

consignments  involved  large  amounts  of  bullion  but,  even  when  the  name  of 
a consignee  is  available,  this  fact  alone  does  not  permit  identification  of  such  a 
person  as  a member  of  a mercantile  elite.  Oceanic  commerce  was  the  preroga- 
tive of  a few  merchants  in  each  port  who  had  sufficient  capital  accumulation 
to  dominate  all  sectors — supply  and  distribution,  finance,  insurance,  making 
loans,  and  even  naval  construction — of  the  market  and  commerce,  and  to  act  as 
points  of  articulation  between  domestic  and  oceanic  trade  networks.'^  Only 
rarely  do  manifests  indicate  the  nature  of  a transaction,  of  a commodity  being 
bought  or  sold,  or  of  a service  being  remunerated.  Notwithstanding  such 
caveats,  manifests  contain  information  on  commercial  practices,  merchants, 
and  traders  in  Oporto. 

Merchants  tried  to  maximize  their  trading  and  purchasing  potential  by 
forming  partnerships  or  having  collaborative  arrangements  with  Brazilians.  In 
1720,  Joao  Carneiro  da  Silva  & Cia  delivered  on  board  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  and 
manifested  consignments,  mostly  of  gold  bars  and  gold  dust,  for  delivery  to 
Verissimo  Mendes  da  Fonseca  in  Lisbon.  Risk  was  shared  by  members  of  the 
partnership  in  Brazil  and  by  residents  in  Lisbon,  Oporto,  and  Rio  de  Janeiro. 

Unstated  is  whether  Joao  Carneiro  da  Silva  & Cia  was  acting  merely  as  agent 
for  Mendes  da  Fonseca.  Another  example  concerned  shared  liability  for  a con- 
signment in  1727  from  Brazil  to  Portugal.  Risk  was  assumed  equally  by  Cap- 
tain Antonio  Nunes  da  Silva  in  Oporto  and  Manuel  Barbosa  of  the  Engenho 
da  Birinoga  in  the  parish  of  Ipojuca  in  Pernambuco.^^ 

Another  option  was  for  a businessman  resident  in  Oporto  himself  to 
travel  to  Brazil.  This  may  have  been  for  solely  personal  reasons,  but  he  was 
open  to  accepting  commissions  to  defray  part  of  his  costs.  Nossa  Senhora  do 
Pilar,  homeward-bound  from  Salvador  in  1716,  carried  on  board  Antonio 
de  Campos.  He  was  described  as  an  “homem  de  negocios”  and  “morador  do 
Porto.”  Campos  declared  consignments  of  moedas  and  gold  dust  that  he  was 
accompanying  for  delivery  to  consignees  in  Lisbon  and  Oporto.  There  are  also 
examples  from  other  sources  of  merchants  in  Portugal  encouraging  a son  or 
relative  to  take  up  residence  in  Brazil,  represent  family  interests,  and  thereby 
further  their  own  careers.^ ^ 

As  for  consignees,  most  consignments  whose  final  destination  was  not 
Lisbon — including  those  for  Oporto  and  northern  Portugal — were  delivered 
to  an  agent  in  Lisbon.  He  ensured  that  they  reached  their  final  destination, 
either  by  transshipping  them  to  another  vessel  or  overland.  Usually  consignees 
are  identified  by  name,  but  some  preferred  to  use  a third  party.  This  practice 


A.  J.  R.  RUSSELL-WOOD 


22 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


seems  to  have  been  institutionalized  in  the  creation  of  the  post  of  “procurador 
dos  homens  do  negocio  da  cidade  do  Porto”  referred  to  in  1724.^^ 

1 he  name  that  appears  most  often  among  commercial  consignees  in 
Oporto  is  “vitiva  Aylvarde  & Cia”  (probably  a variant  on  the  English  Aylward). 
Rare  was  the  Heet  from  Brazil  between  1720  and  1729  that  did  not  have  on 
board  two  or  more  consignments  for  this  commercial  house  in  Oporto.  Such 
consignments  were  invariably  in  gold  moedas  of  4$800  reis  and,  for  the  most 
part,  were  carried  on  fleets  from  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Consignments  from  Salvador 
can  be  counted  on  one  hand,  although  Salvador  provides  the  only  example 
of  a consignment  of  gold  dust:  423.5  oitavas  in  1722.^^  In  1725  and  again 
in  1727  Diogo  Aylward  is  designated  by  name  as  the  consignee,  and  in  1727 
Margarida  Aylward  is  named  as  a consignee  of  150  moedas?^  It  appears  there 
was  a change  of  ownership  or  management.  After  years  of  being  designated  as 
“Viuva  Aylvarde  & Cia,”  in  1726  and  subsequently  the  company  is  referred 
to  as  “Viuva  Aylvarde  e Arcediago.”  The  latter  referred  to  one  Pedro  Arce- 
diago.  In  1728,  774$400  reis  from  Rio  de  Janeiro  consigned  to  “Aylvarde  e 
Arcediago”  were  handed  to  Pedro  Arcediago  with  the  agreement  of  Margarida 
Ariardo,  widow  of  Ricardo  Ariardo.^^  For  the  years  1720—29  inclusive,  the 
manifests  show  that  the  business  received  consignments  from  Rio  totaling 
some  17879$000  reis  before  the  merger  in  1726  and  6456$000  rek  after- 
wards, and  from  Salvador  some  1200$000  rmand  423.5  oitavas  to  1726 
and  a further  256$000  reis  after  the  merger. 

The  tantalizing  question,  namely,  why  consignments  clearly  of  a business 
nature  were  made,  remains  largely  unanswered.  The  manifest  for  a consign- 
ment of  31  dispatched  from  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  1722  notes  that  risk  was 

assumed  by  a consortium  referred  to  as  Amigos  do  Norte.  This  consortium 
dealt  in  flanelette  and  other  cloths.  Two  consignments  were  sent  on  the  fleet 
from  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  1722  for  delivery  to  investors  with  business  interests 
in  the  vessel  Bom  Jesus  da  Gaia.  Each  was  of  387  moedas  and  each  was  on  a 
different  vessel.  This  was  a common  strategy,  presumably  to  avoid  loss  should 
one  vessel  founder  at  sea.  A consignment  of  108$800  reis  from  Salvador  in 
1 740  was  for  delivery  to  Andre  Teixeira  in  Oporto.  Teixeira  assumed  risk  and 
was  identified  as  a “boticario”  who  had  presumably  dispatched  potions  or  pills 
to  a client  in  Bahia.^^  Such  occupational  identification  is  rare  for  consignees 
in  Oporto,  despite  a lively  community  of  persons  in  the  “mechanical  trades.” 
Manifests  for  consignments  of  bullion  from  Brazil  to  Portugal  have  a 
strong  international  component.  Places  of  residence  of  consignees  range  from 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  23 

London,  Hamburg,  and  Paris,  to  Barcelona  and  Genoa.  By  the  eighteenth 
century  there  was  a thriving  international  merchant  community  in  Oporto. 
Wholesale  and  retail  sectors  of  the  economy  attracted  not  only  Portuguese 
investment  but  foreign  merchants:  Flemish,  French,  and  English.  In  the  first 
half  of  the  eighteenth  century  a vigorous  exchange  continued  of  products 
from  northern  Europe — foodstuffs,  cloth,  and  manufactured  goods — for 
Portuguese  fruits,  wax,  honey,  vinegar,  and  two  products  especially  identi- 
fied with  the  region  of  the  River  Douro:  sumac  and  wine.  The  British  were 
prominent  in  the  commercial  life  of  Oporto  and  England  was  a major  market 
for  the  product  already  known  as  Port  Wine.  Members  of  this  community 
appear  as  consignees  for  bullion  consignments  from  Brazil,  their  names  often 
appearing  as  Portuguese  adaptations.  Nothing  indicates  what  generation  of 
expatriates  they  were  or  their  length  of  residence  in  Oporto.  In  the  decade 
between  about  1722  and  1732,  John  Stevenson  & Co.  appears  frequently  as 
consignee  for  shipments  of  moedaso^ 4$800  rmand  invariably  on  fleets  from 
Salvador.  Only  once,  in  1722,  was  he  named  as  consignee  of  400  oitavas  of 
gold  dust.  A ship’s  manifest  recorded  the  consignment  on  the  Nossa  Senhora 
da  Concei^ao,  homeward-bound  from  Rio  de  Janeiro  and  which  arrived  in 
the  Tagus  in  November  1737,  of  126$000  reis,  “bens  do  defunto  Joao  Ste- 
venson.”^^ The  Hopman  family  name — Sibrando,  Reinaldo,  and  Arnoldo — 
was  associated  with  consignments  from  Brazil  for  more  than  20  years:  other 
than  a consignment  from  Pernambuco  in  1714  of  a gold  bar  of  119  marcos 
for  Sibrando,  subsequent  consignments  were  in  moedas  from  Rio  de  Janeiro. 

This  pattern  did  not  change  when  a Hopman  entered  into  a partnership  with 
Arnold  Vanzeller  in  1733.^^ 

Other  British  partnerships  make  fleeting  appearances  in  manifests:  Benja- 
min Tilden  & Co.,  for  a consignment  of  1008$000  reis  from  Rio  in  1720, 
another  consignment  in  coin  in  1730,  and  another  of  moedas  from  Rio,  this 
time  in  1733  and  in  partnership  with  Daniel  Hunt  and  Richard  Lance  in  Lis- 
bon. In  1740  the  partnership  of  Acland,  Young,  and  Palmer  in  Oporto  received 
two  consignments  in  coin  from  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Francis  Milner  in  Oporto  was 
the  consignee  for  three  consignments  of  coins  from  Salvador  and  Rio  de 
Janeiro  respectively  in  1721  and  1740.^^  Other  British  names  are  scattered 
through  the  manifests  as  consignees:  Jorge  Clarque  (Clark),  Timothy  Harris, 

John  Lee,  Samuel  Palmer,  John  Hitchcock,  Richard  Thompson,  John  Paige 
& Co,  and  Cristovao  Croft.  Pedro  Beasley  in  Oporto  was  probably  related 
to  Guilherme  Beasley,  a commercial  partner  of  Benjamin  Jones  in  Lisbon.^® 


A.  J.  R.  RUSSELL-WOOD 


24 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Despite  their  roles  as  consignees,  there  is  not  sufficient  evidence  from  this 
source  alone  that  persons  of  British  birth  or  descent  in  Oporto  intensively  or 
consistently  engaged  in  trade  with  Brazil  in  this  period. 

Manifests  indicate  that  merchants  of  Oporto  had  relationships  with  their 
counterparts  elsewhere  in  Europe.  A consignment  on  the  fleet  from  Salvador 
in  1721  referred  to  a consignment  of  64  moedas.  Risk  was  assumed  by  Joao 
Burmestre  (Johan  Burmeister)  of  Hamburg  and  delivery  was  to  be  made  in 
Lisbon  to  the  order  of  “Joao  Brestins  e Venduque”  (Dutch  van  Diyk?)  resident 
in  Oporto.  There  are  also  references  to  risk  being  assumed  by  a merchant  in 
Hamburg  for  consignments  of  gold  dust  and  moedas  from  Salvador  in  1724 
for  final  delivery  in  Oporto.  In  1721  a Raymundo  Ritte  (German  Ritter?)  and 
his  son  were  residents  in  Oporto  and  receiving  consignments  from  Brazil. 

The  most  visible  evidence  of  a Brazilian  presence  in  Oporto  was  the 
superbly  gilded  and  carved  talha  executed  in  the  church  of  Sao  Francisco  in 
the  early  1750s.  The  years  after  1731  also  saw  Nicolo  Nasoni  at  the  height 
of  his  creative  powers  in  the  city.  Gold  is  a great  enabler,  with  the  capacity 
to  be  both  the  instrument  and  the  catalyst  for  change:  promotion  of  music 
and  the  fine  arts;  new  architectural  styles;  enhanced  support  for  social  phi- 
lanthropy; public  health  in  the  form  of  cemeteries,  hospitals,  and  foundling 
wheels;  distinguished  private,  public,  and  religious  buildings;  public  services 
such  as  fountains,  roads,  bridges,  and  streets;  and  as  the  engine  to  drive  local 
economies  and  commercial  networks  whose  development  could  have  positive 
ramifications  for  the  res  publica. 


Notes 

’ See  Boxer  {Golden  Age)  and  Russell-Wood  (“Colonial  Brazil”  547-600). 

^ See  Luis  A.  de  Oliveira  Ramos  {Histdria  do  Porto  264-66)  and  Russell-Wood  ( Um  mundo 
198-200,  205-6). 

For  a description  of  the  1 386  volumes  of  Manifestos  das  naus,  23  volumes  of  Manifestos  das 
visitas  do  ouro,  and  32  volumes  of  Receita  do  1 por  cento  de  ouro,  see  Leme  (“O  Arquivo”  47-56). 

^ See  Russell-Wood  (“As  frotas”  701-17);  for  the  international  dimension  of  this  trade,  see 
Russell -Wood  (“An  Asian  Presence”  148-67). 

^ Arquivo  da  Casa  da  Moeda  de  Lisboa  (hereafter  ACML):  vol.  1784  #476. 

^ See  Pinto  (O  ouro  brasileiro  133-85). 

^ ACML:  vol.  1666.  For  other  examples  of  Oporto-based  vessels  traveling  to  Brazil  in  1713 
and  1714,  see  vols.  1665,  1671,  1675,  1685,  1686,  1692,  1695,  and  1702. 

® See  Russell-Wood  (“Floly  and  Unholy  Alliances”  815-37). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


25 


^ See  Donald  Ramos  (“From  Minho  to  Minas”  639—62). 

‘0  ACML:  vol.  1783  #528  and  #1021;  vol.  1784  #219;  vol.  1785  #136,  #264,  #265. 
ACML:  vol.  1784  #378. 

12  ACML:  vol.  1783  #666;  vol.  1784  #379;  vol.  1785  #266;  vol.  1786  #114. 

'3  ACML:  vol.  1784  #400. 

ACML:  vol.  1799  #73,  #74,  #97. 

’5  ACML:  vol.  1653;  vol.  1693,  fols.  I4v-17v. 

*6  ACML:  vol.  1679,  fol.  36r. 

’2  ACML:  vol.  1692;  vol.  1666;  vol.  1787  #39. 

‘8  ACML:  vol.  1786  #137,  #382,  #383,  #388. 

Cited  in  Fragoso  (//omew  253-303). 

20  ACML:  vol.  1754  #87;  vol.  1916  #357. 

2'  ACML:  vol.  1714.  Also  see  Furtado  {Homens  de  negocios  G\—G2) . 

22  ACML:  vol.  1828  #6. 

23  From  Rio:  ACML:  vol.  1747  #42;  vol.  1748  #244,  #245,  #249;  vol.  1756  #62;  vol.  1757 
#31;  vol.  1792  #15,  #16;  vol.  1800  #71,  #111,  #112,  #113;  vol.  1812  #114;  vol.  1821  #75; 
vol.  1849  #55;  vol.  1853  #36;  vol.  1855  #216;  vol.  1871  #37;  vol.  1879  fol.  109v;  vol.  1885 
#115;  vol.  1892  #13;  vol.  1893  #129.  From  Salvador:  ACML:  vol.  1788  #95;  vol.  1809  #70; 
vol.  1810  #6;  vol.  1939  #7. 

2^  ACML:  vol.  1849  #55;  vol.  1871  #18;  vol.  1894  #237;  vol.  1901  #212. 

25  ACML:  vol.  1892  #13;  vol.  1894  #241;  vol.  1901  #211;  1921  #361;  vol.  1939  #97;  vol. 
1921  #361. 

26  ACML:  vol.1798  #69;  vol.  1792  #13;  vol.  1800  #109;  vol.  2162  #195. 

22  See  Luis  A.  de  Oliveira  Ramos  {Historia  do  Porto  281-287).  ACML:  vol. 1788  #21;  vol. 
1789  #22;  vol.1860  #156;  vol.1936  #158;  vol.  2000  #151;  vol.2095  #51. 

28  ACML:  vol.l686fol.  21r;  vol.  1902  #170-71;  vol.  1980  #199;  vol.  2012  #241. 

29  ACML:  vol.  1747  #30;  vol.  1963  #300;  vol.  2012  #287;  vol.  2147  #38;  vol.  2149  #326; 
vol.  1785  #46;  vol.  2144  #1074;  vol.  2149  #44. 

30  ACML:  vol.  1761  #21;  vol.  1686;  vol.  1719,  fol.  50r;  vol.2 180  #71;  vol.1936  #167;  vol. 
2000  #150;  vol.  2239  #97;  vol.  2000  #149;  vol.  2135  #115;  vol.  2143  #71,  #343. 

31  ACML;  vol.  1784  #98;  vol.  1835;  vol.  1836  #125;  vol.  1783  #1 12. 


Works  Cited 

Boxer,  C.  R.  The  Golden  Age  of  Brazil,  1695—1750.  Berkeley  and  Los  Angeles:  U of  California 
P,  1962.  Print. 

Fragoso,  Joao  Luis  Ribeiro.  Homens  de  grossa  aventura:  acumulagao  e hierarquia  na  praga  mercan- 
til  do  Rio  de  Janeiro,  1790-1830.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Arquivo  Nacional,  1992.  Print. 

Furtado,  Jiinia  Ferreira.  Homens  de  negocios.  A interiorizagao  da  metropole  e do  comercio  nas 
Minas  setecentistas.  Sao  Paulo:  Flucitec,  1999.  Print. 

Leme,  Margarida  Ortigao  Ramos  Paes.  “O  arquivo  da  Casa  da  Moeda  de  Lisboa:  seu  inter- 
esse  para  a historia  do  Brasil  colonial,  1686-1822.”  Acervo:  Revista  do  Arquivo  NacionalT,. 
(1997):  47-56.  Print. 


A.  J.  R.  RUSSELL-WOOD 


26 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Pinto,  \’irgilio  Noya.  O ouro  brasileiro  e o comercio  anglo-portugues.  2nd  ed.  Sao  Paulo: 
Companhia  Editorial  Nacional,  1979.  Print. 

Ramos,  Donald.  “From  Minho  to  Minas:  The  Portuguese  Roots  of  the  Mineiro  ¥zm\\y." Hispanic 
American  Historical  Review7?>A  (1993):  639-662.  Print. 

Ramos,  Liu's  A.  de  Oliveira,  ed.  Historia  do  Porto.  Porto:  Porto  Editora,  1995.  Print. 

Russell-Wood,  A.  J.  R.  “An  Asian  Presence  in  the  Atlantic  Bullion  Carrying  Trade.”  Portuguese 
Studies  17  (2001):  148-67.  Print. 

. “Colonial  Brazil:  The  Gold  Cycle,  c.  1690-1750.”  Colonial  Latin  America.  Ed.  Leslie 

Bethell.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  UP,  1985.  547-600.  Print.  Vol.  2 of  The  Cambridge 
History  of  Latin  America.  1 985-2008. 

. “As  frotas  do  ouro  do  Brasil,  1710-1750.”  Estudos  EcondmicosyAW  (1983):  701-17. 

Print. 

. “Holy  and  Unholy  Alliances:  Clerical  Participation  in  the  Flow  of  Bullion  from  Brazil 

to  Portugal  during  the  Reign  of  Dom  Joao  V (1706-1750).”  Hispanic  American  Historical 
Review  m. A (2000):  815-837.  Print. 

. Um  mundo  em  movimento.  Os  portugueses  na  Africa,  Asia  e America  (1415-1808). 

Lisbon:  Difel,  1998.  Print. 


A.  J.  R.  Russell-Wood  (1940-2010)  was  the  Herbert  Baxter  Adams  Professor  of  History  at 
The  Johns  Hopkins  University.  His  latest  books  were:  The  Portuguese  Empire,  1415—1808 
(1998),  Government  and  Governance  of  European  Empires,  1450—1800  (2000),  and  Slavery 
and  Freedom  in  Golonial  Brazil  (2002). 


Trabalho,  fortuna  e mobilidade  de  negros,  crioulos 
e mestizos  no  Brasil  do  seculo  XVIII 


Eduardo  Franga  Paiva 


Abstract.  In  eighteenth-century  Brazil,  more  specifically  in  the  urbanized 
slave  areas  of  Minas  Gerais,  labour  and  increase  of  wealth  often  were 
aspects  that  were  intricately  related  to  personal  and  collective  relations. 
This  favored  economic  and  social  accession  of  freedmen  (mostly  freed- 
women)  and  their  descendants,  who  knew  how  to  take  advantage  of  all 
possibilities  created  by  a society  that  was  strongly  marked  by  a physical 
and  social  mobility,  by  biological  and  cultural  miscegenation,  and  by  an 
intense  economic  dynamism.  The  examples  presented  in  this  text  are 
only  some  of  the  many  registered  cases  in  the  extensive  documentation 
that  exists  on  this  period  and  that  has  fostered  the  profound  renewal  of 
Brazilian  historiography  since  the  1980s. 


Durante  o seculo  XVIII,  em  Minas  Gerais,  Brasil,  assim  como  em  outras  areas 
urbanizadas  de  regioes  escravistas  da  America,^  o acumulo  de  valores  materials — 
dinheiro  cunhado;  ouro  em  p6  e em  barra;  prata  lavrada  e em  barra;  joias  e 
acessorios;  objetos  de  uso  cotidiano,  como  porcelanas,  talheres  e espelhos;  tecidos 
caros — , bem  como  de  creditos  e de  debitos — pode-se  dizer,  quase,  que  todos 
deviam  a todos,  inclui'dos  brancos,  negros,  crioulos  e mestigos,  livres,  libertos  e 
escravos^ — nao  aparecem,  na  documentagao  geral,  como  aspecto  contraditorio 
ou  em  oposigao  as  relagoes  pessoais.  Ao  contrario,  na  maioria  dos  casos,  sobretudo 
os  observados  em  testamentos  e em  inventarios  post-mortem  do  pen'odo,  uma 
coisa  e outra  se  encontravam  intimamente  vinculadas,  sem  que  isso  provocasse 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  25124  (2012):  27-54. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


28 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


cheque  de  consciencia  individual,  nem,  tampouco,  reprova^ao  religiosa  ou  erica. 
De  maneira  muito  semelhante,  outre  desses  mites  que  vem  atravessando  seculos 
deve  ser  revisto.  N4uitas  vezes,  inclusive,  ele  aparece  associado  ao  primeiro,  tanto 
de  torma  explicita,  quanto  implicitamente.  Trata-se  da  ideia  generalizante  e sim- 
plificadera  de  que  o trabalho  era  genericamente  desprezado  pela  popula^ao  livre 
e que  era  igualmente  negado  pelos  ex-escravos  que  conseguiam  a alforria,  o que 
significa  afirmar,  come  se  afirmou  durante  muito  tempo,  que  a primeira  coisa 
que  o forro  fazia  era  opor-se  ao  trabalho  e que  liberdade  e trabalho  eram  aspectos 
contraditorios  nessas  sociedades  escravistas  colonials.  Novamente,  a analise  mais 
pormenorizada  da  extensa  massa  documental  dispomVel  e as  analises  da  histo- 
riografia  chamada  “revisionista” — esta  que  se  desenvolveu  depois  de  1980,  no 
Brasil  e em  outros  paises — comprovam  o equiVoco  de  axiomas  como  esses,  frutos 
de  metodologias  que  aplicavam  modelos  ideais  (quase  sempre  etnocentricos)  a 
qualquer  regiao  e a qualquer  epoca,  e que  for^avam  as  realidades  historicas  a se 
enquadrarem  em  categorias  teoricas  pre-concebidas.^ 

As  historias  compreendidas  nesses  textos  mostram  exatamente  como  essas 
“contradi^oes,”  em  grande  medida,  nao  existiram  no  dia-a-dia  desses  agentes 
historicos.  Elas  demonstram,  inclusive,  que  as  sociedades  escravistas,  sobre- 
tudo  em  sua  dimensao  urbana,  estiveram  longe  do  “engessamento”  produzido 
por  meio  de  categorias  de  analise  e de  juizos  de  valor  aplicados  a posteriori. 

Trajetorias  individuals — historias  coletivas 

A se  julgar  pelas  opinides  das  autoridades  colonials  e metropolitanas  sobre 
escravos  e sobre  forros,  e sens  descendentes  nascidos  livres,  negros,  crioulos"^ 
e mestizos,  eles  formavam,  realmente,  agrupamentos  socials  que  traziam 
grande  incomodo  a toda  a sociedade  ou,  pelo  menos,  a parte  mais  ordenada 
dela.  Roubavam,  matavam,  vadiavam,  desacatavam  as  normas  e corrompiam 
o establishment.  Acusa^oes  semelhantes  existiriam  por  todo  o seculo  XVIII  e 
foram  comuns  em  varias  regioes.^  Mas,  se  eram  tao  nocivos,  por  que  o Estado, 
centralizado  e fortificado  na  Capitania  das  Minas  Gerais,  onde  se  havia  encon- 
trado  muito  ouro  e diamantes,  e onde  se  conformou  enorme  popula^ao  escrava 
e liberta,*^  nao  logrou  impedir  tantos  danos  causados  por  eles?  Parte  da  resposta 
tinha  sido  apresentada  ja  no  im'cio  do  seculo  XVIIl  pelo  entao  governador,  o 
Conde  das  Galveas:  sem  o trabalho  deles,  os  reals  quintos  (imposto  cobrado 
pela  coroa)  sofreriam  notavel  avaria.  Mas  nao  era  apenas  isso.^ 

E preciso  separar,  desde  ja,  a interpreta^ao  dos  administradores  sobre  esses 
agrupamentos  socials  e a realidade  que  envolvia  esses  homens  e mulheres  nao 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


29 


brancos.  Muitas  vezes,  nao  foi  o fato  de  transgredirem  a lei  que  os  transfor- 
mava  em  individuos  indesejaveis.^  Em  boa  medida,  o que  causava  esse  inco- 
modo  era  o fato  de,  entre  eles,  haver  varios  que,  gera<;ao  apos  gera^ao,  logra- 
vam  ascender  economicamente  e conquistar  status  social  e,  tudo  isso,  com 
certa  facilidade.  Mais  ainda:  essas  trajetorias  nao  infringiam,  pelo  menos  clara 
e abertamente,  a legisla^ao  e os  costumes  vigentes.  O mundo  que  os  libertos 
construi'ram  para  si  e para  seus  descendentes,  tambem  ele  cheio  de  facetas, 
pleno  de  tradi^oes  preservadas,  de  adapta^oes  processadas  e de  descontinui- 
dades,  e o que,  enfim,  maior  desconfian^a  e desconforto  gerava  entre  a camada 
mais  rica  da  popula^ao.  Junto  a isso,  claro,  a mesti^agem  biologica  e cultural 
entre  brancos  e negros  contribuia  muito  para  que  o universo  dos  forros  viesse  a 
ser  visto  pela  elite  branca  como  arnea^a  direta  a sua  hegemonia.  Afinal,  a cada 
dia  aumentava  a quantidade  de  filhos  mulatos  e pardos,  de  pele  aclarada,  que 
exigiam  o amparo  das  mesmas  condi^oes  privilegiadas  de  seus  pais  brancos  e 
desconsideravam  varias  das  restri^es  legais  impostas  aos  nao  brancos. 

Os  discursos  oficiais  e os  proferidos  pela  elite  colonial,  no  seu  inverso, 
acabavam  por  demonstrar  a enorme  dimensao  alcan^ada  pelas  praticas  de 
alforria  naquela  sociedade  escravista.  Alem  disso,  constatavam  as  reduzidas 
possibilidades  de  reverter  o quadro  ou  mesmo  de  estanca-lo.  Dai  as  acusa- 
0es  de  atrevimento  e de  indolencia.  Evidentemente,  as  pequenas  rebelioes 
existentes  e outras  que  nao  chegaram  a ser  concretizadas;  as  fugas;  os  roubos 
e as  atitudes  violentas  contra  proprietarios  e familiares  deles  e a formaqao  de 
quilombos^  contribuiram  decisivamente  com  uma  certa  legitimidade  desses 
discursos.  Contudo,  a maior  parte  dos  escravos,  dos  forros  e dos  nao  brancos, 
nascidos  livres  das  Minas,  permaneceu  nas  vilas  e arraiais,  onde  moravam  e 
trabalhavam  e onde  estabeleceram  relacionamentos  de  variada  especie  com 
outros  de  iguais  “condi^ao”  e “qualidade,”  bem  como  com  brancos.^® 

Os  libertos  e as  libertas  moradores  das  areas  urbanas,  fossem  eles  africanos, 
crioulos  ou  mestizos,  levavam  uma  vida  mais  ou  menos  pacata,  sem  intentar 
promover  profundas  altera^oes  na  logica  do  mando  escravista.  Afinal,  trat- 
ava-se  de  libertos  vivendo  em  uma  sociedade  escravocrata,  onde  era  preciso 
enfrentar  o estigma  deixado  pela  antiga  condi^ao.  E claro  que,  diante  dessas 
condi^oes,  tornar-se  senhor  de  escravos  era  um  dos  objetivos  naturalmente 
perseguidos  pelos  forros.  Para  uma  significativa  parcela  deste  grupo,  isto  e, 
para  os  africanos,  o cativeiro  era  condi^ao  inclusive  ja  conhecida  nas  terras 
de  origem.  Mesmo  sem  alcanqar  a mesma  dimensao  e sem  conhecer  a mesma 
dinamica  desenvolvidas  no  Novo  Mundo,  a escravidao  ja  era  institui^ao 


EDUARDO  FRANgA  PAIVA 


30 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


praticada  ha  seciilos  em  varias  regioes  africanas  (tambem  na  Europa  e no  Ori- 
ente),  assim  como  as  liberta^oesd  ’ 

Na  pratica,  contndo,  os  libertos  ja  vinham,  ha  tempos,  for^ando  o sistema 
escravista  a adapta^oes  e adequa^oes  em  rela^ao  aos  ritos  cotidianos  da  vida  no 
Brasil.  E isto,  mesmo  qiie  de  maneira  pouco  percepnvel  na  epoca,  representou 
modifica^oes  notaveis  nas  rela^oes  socials  ali  vivenciadas.  A grande  quantidade 
de  alforrias  pagas,  em  boa  medida,  e uma  das  adapta^oes  for^adas  de  baixo  para 
cima.  Ao  final  do  seculo  XVIII  ainda  mais  escravos  pagavam  por  suas  alforrias 
e,  assim,  a poptila^ao  forra  tornou-se  quase  tao  grande  quanto  a escrava.  Mais 
alguns  anos  e a inversao  concretizar-se-ia:  em  pleno  dommio  escravagista,  no 
auge  das  importa^oes  de  africanos,  o grupo  de  alforriados  tornava-se  maior  do 
que  o dos  cativos  nas  Minas  Gerais  e,  provavelmente,  isso  se  repetiu  em  outras 
areas  colonials  igualmente  urbanizadas.  Atraves  de  acordos  estabelecidos  direta- 
mente  com  os  proprietarios  foi  possfvel  a esses  individuos  alcan^ar  a liberta9ao  e 
aqui  esta  outra  caracteristica  dessas  rela^oes  escravistas  marcadamente  urbanas. 
A maioria  dos  libertos  e libertas  nao  havia  ganhado  a manumissao,  como  diziam 
seus  moribundos  senhores,  mas  havia  conquistado  essa  nova  condi^ao.  No  pro- 
cesso  de  tais  conquistas  foi  necessario  que  ambas  as  partes  praticassem  alguma 
tolerancia  e que  desenvolvessem  certa  cumplicidade.  Afinal,  havia  vantagens  de 
diferentes  tipos  a serem  auferidas  por  senhores  e por  escravos. 

Em  regioes  como  as  Minas  Gerais,  que,  alem  das  caracten'sticas  ja  res- 
saltadas,  conheceram  economia  diversificada  e intensa  atividade  comercial, 
provocando,  inclusive,  a dinamiza^ao  cultural  entre  a popula^ao  de  distinta 
origem,  esses  homens  e mulheres  libertos  experimentaram  condi^oes  de  vida 
especiais,  em  pleno  contexto  escravista.  Eles  formaram,  senao  a maior,  uma 
das  mais  importantes  concentra^oes  de  ex-escravos  e de  descendentes  diretos 
ja  conformada  no  mundo,  ate  aquela  data.  Alem  disso,  ainda  constituiram  o 
que  se  poderia  chamar  de  camada  media  urbana.  Isso  significou,  entre  muitas 
outras  coisas,  a forma^ao  de  pujantes  espa^os  de  sociabilidade,  o forjamento 
de  mercados  de  consumo  espedficos,  que  nao  se  restringiram  a operates 
financeiras,  mas  que  vincularam  economia  e cultura,  assim  como  o fomento 
da  mesti^agem  biologica  e cultural.  Alguns,  como  se  vera  a seguir,  chegaram 
mesmo  a conquistar  condi^oes  de  vida  desconhecidas  por  grande  parte  da 
popula^ao  branca  de  todo  o imperio  portugud  e pela  maioria  dos  negros  que 
permaneceu  nas  Africas.  Nesse  sentido,  e imprescindivel  atentar  para  o fato  de 
que  esses  agentes  historicos  nao  apenas  conseguiram  atuar  na  modelagem  da 
sociedade  na  qual  se  inseriam,  como  dessa  maneira,  possibilitaram  tambem  a 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  31 

implementa^ao  e o desenvolvimento  de  conexoes  materiais  e culturais  impor- 
tantes  entre  distances  regioes  do  planeta,  verticalizando  ainda  mais  e,  paralela- 
mente,  ampliando  o fenomeno  da  mundializa^ao. 

Entre  ser  escravo  e tornar-se  liberto  e a vida  depois  da  alforria 

Durante  muitos  anos,  as  imagens  sobre  escravos  e libertos,  construidas  no 
seculo  XIX,  sobretudo  apos  1850,  permaneceram  quase  intactas  na  historiogra- 
fia  brasileira.  O mesmo  ocorreu  no  imaginario  sobre  a escravidao,  que  ainda  se 
faz  tao  presence  no  dia-a-dia  dos  brasileiros.  Uma  dessas  verdades  incontestaveis 
preconiza  que,  apos  serem  alforriados,  os  antigos  escravos  negavam  o trabalho, 
entregavam-se  a vadiagem  e depois,  sem  recursos  e incapazes  de  gerenciar  sua 
liberdade,  voltavam  as  “fazendas”  dos  senhores,  onde  suplicavam  por  ajuda.  As 
trajetorias  dos  libertos,  na  verdade,  diferenciaram-se  bastante  desse  axioma  oito- 
centista  e de  cunho  abolicionista,  inaplicavel  ate  mesmo  naquela  epoca. 

No  seculo  XVIIl,  a maioria  das  alforrias  e coarta^oes  ocorreu  nas  areas 
urbanas  e nas  propriedades  localizadas  nos  arrabaldes  das  vilas  e arraiaisd^ 

Alem  disso,  ao  contrario  da  incapacidade  de  buscar  meios  de  sobrevivencia 
sugerida  por  aquela  enganosa  imagem,  os  libertos  aproveitaram  todas  as  pos-- 
sibilidades  oferecidas  pela  realidade  social  e inventaram  outras.  E claro  que 
isso  nao  significa  afirmar  que  todos  eles,  homens  e mulheres,  experimentaram 
ascensao  economica  e aproveitaram,  com  tranqiiilidade,  o resto  de  sens  anos. 

Muitos  entre  eles,  talvez  mesmo  a maioria  deles,  nao  conheceu  condi^oes 
de  vida  muito  favoraveis,  mas,  tambem,  nao  voltaram  flagelados  aos  antigos 
proprietarios,  suplicando  ajuda. 

Ora,  nas  duas  comarcas  mineiras  estudadas  aqui,  a do  Rio  das  Velhas  e a do 
Rio  das  Mortes,  uma  propor^ao  de  libertos,  variando  minimamente  entre  30% 
e 40%,  pagaram  suas  cartas  de  alforria,  tanto  atraves  da  coarta^ao,  quanto  a 
vista. Os  dados  arrolados  a partir  de  testamentos  e de  inventarios  post-mortem 
de  moradores  das  duas  regioes  sao  bastante  reveladores.  Dos  6656  escravos  e 
escravas  pertencentes  a testadores  e a inventariados,  592  (8,89%)  foram  alfor- 
riados e outros  340  (5,10%)  foram  coartados.  Somados,  alforriados  e coarta- 
dos,  representaram  14,14%  do  total  de  escravos  encontrados  na  documenta^ao. 

Mesmo  considerando-se  a existencia  de  uma  significativa  quantidade  de  forros  e 
forras  que  nao  aparecem  na  documenta^ao  investigada,  posto  que  haviam  con- 
seguido  a liberdade  bem  antes  da  morte  do  proprietario,  os  resultados  finais  nao 
seriam  mais  baixos.  A media  semelhante  encontrada  para  as  duas  regioes,  a par- 
tir de  um  conjunto  documental  com  caracten'sticas  distintas,  acaba  por  endossar 


EDUARDO  FRANCA  PAIVA 


32 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


as  taxas  aprescntadas.  Ha  outro  fator  que  serve  de  base  para  essa  constata^ao: 
trata-se  do  reduzido  niimero  de  pagamentos  realizados  a vista  pelos  escravos  ou 
por  terceiros  e assim  identificados  nos  documentos  senhoriais.  Assim,  expressoes 
como:  “men  escravo  que  foi”;  “a  quern  passei  carta  de  liberdade  ha  tempos” — 
habitualmente  encontradas,  podem  estar  encobrindo  alforrias  pagas  de  uma 
vez  apenas.  Estes  casos  for^ariam,  inclusive,  o atimento  das  taxas  medias  finais 
encontradas  e apresentadas  aqui.  Contudo,  acabam  por  compensar  as  impre- 
cisoes  que  sempre  acompanham  as  amostragens  quantitativas. 

O importante  e ressaltar  que  uma  popula^ao  liberta  de  dimensoes  tao 
amplas,  que  conseguiu  comprar  tantas  alforrias,  nao  encontrou,  no  geral, 
dificuldades  tao  mais  acentuadas  para  continuar  sustentando-se  no  pos- 
cativeiro.  Isso,  sem  considerar  todos  aqueles,  e nao  foram  poucos,  que  nao 
precisaram  trocar  oitavas  de  ouro^"^  pela  manumissao  e que  ainda  herdaram 
local  de  moradia,  instrumentos  de  trabalho  e outros  bens  materials  de  sens 
proprietarios.  Nao  foram  poucos  os  senhores  que  deixaram  heran^as,  afora 
a alforria,  para  seus  escravos,  e,  principalmente,  para  aqueles  que  estavam 
sendo  libertados  ou  coartados  em  testamento.  Isso  e constatado  no  quadro 
apresentado  a seguir; 

Quadro  1.  Testadores  e inventariados  que  deixaram  heran^a  material  para  escravos  e 
coartados  nas  Comarcasdo  Rio  das  Velhas  (1720-1784)  edo  Rio  das  Mortes  (1716-1789). 


Com.  do  Rio 
DAS  Velhas 

Com.  do  Rio 
DAS  Mortes 

Soma  das  Comarcas 

Homens  Livres 

79 

30 

109 

Homens  Forros 

1 

0 

1 

Total  de  Homens 

80 

30 

110 

Mulheres  Livres 

5 

2 

7 

Mulheres  Forras 

14 

6 

20 

Total  de  Mulheres 

19 

8 

27 

TOTAL  GERAL 

99 

38 

137 

Fonte:  Testamentos  e inventarios  post-mortem  do  APM  (Arquivo  Publico  Mineiro,  Belo  Hori- 
zonte), do  MO  (Museu  do  Ouro,  Sahara)  e do  MRSJR  (Museu  Regional  de  Sao  Joao  del  Rei). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  33 

Esses  137  individuos  que  legaram  bens  materiais  a sens  cativos  represen- 
tam  21,5%  do  total  de  testadores  e inventariados  proprietarios  de  escravos 
arrolados.  Quase  1/4  dos  senhores  mineiros  setecentistas  deixaram,  portanto, 
alguma  heran^a  para  um  ou  mais  de  sens  escravos(as).  E a maioria  desses 
legatarios  nao  se  inclui  entre  os  cativos  que  compraram  suas  cartas  de  liber- 
dade  e que,  entao,  ja  tinham  alguma  experiencia  em  captar  recursos  prestando 
servi9os  diversos.  Isso  significa  que,  diferentemente  desses  ultimos,  nao  car- 
regaram  uma  diVida  durante  anos,  nao  tiveram  que  despender  eventuais  eco- 
nomias  e que  come^aram  a viver  como  libertos  contando  com  algum  suporte 
material  que  tambem  nao  Ihes  custou  oitavas  de  ouro.  Houve  casos,  contudo, 
em  que  uma  parte  dos  legados  foi  ganha  e a outra  foi  paga.  For  exemplo,  em 
1751,  na  vila  de  Sahara,  o celibatario  pintor  portugues  Miguel  Lobo  de  Souza 
escrevia  em  seu  testamento  que  possui'a  uma  morada  de  casas  que  dividiam 
com  a capela  de  Santa  Rita  e “com  a casa  de  Antonio  Lobo  de  Souza,  preto 
forro  [um  de  seus  testamenteiros],  casado  com  Antonia  Loba  de  Souza,  minha 
escrava  que  foi,  cuja  casa  me  compraram  pelo  seu  justo  valor  e que  estou  pago 
e satisfeito.”’^  As  tintas  e equipamentos  do  oficio  de  pintor,  o testador,  tudo 
legava  ao  “preto  Antonio  Lobo  de  Souza,”  que  deveria  pagar  somente  duas 
partes  do  valor  do  material  e com  ele  ganhar  sua  vidad^’ 

Tudo  leva  a crer  que  o casal  de  libertos  foi  escravo  de  Miguel  e nao  apenas 
a forra,  como  ele  registra.  Talvez  uma  falha  causada  pela  proximidade  cotidi- 
ana  entre  o testador  e o forro,  que,  inclusive,  tinha  o mesmo  sobrenome  e o 
mesmo  oficio.  A casa,  adquirida  pelo  “justo  valor,”  pode,  na  verdade,  ter  sido 
vendida  com  algumas  facilidades  adicionais,  como  prazo  de  pagamento  e um 
pre^o  que  nao  computava  qualquer  especula^ao  imobiliaria.  Mestre  e apren- 
diz,  ou  ajudante,  moravam  entao  lado  a lado.  Isso  facilitava  a organiza^ao  do 
trabalho  conjunto  e,  tambem,  alguns  tipos  possiVeis  de  pinturas.  Alem  disso, 
desenvolveu-se  entre  eles  uma  confian^a  que  acabou  ficando  externada  junto 
a escolha  de  Antonio  como  um  dos  testamenteiros  indicados  por  Miguel.  O 
casal  de  forros,  muito  antes  da  morte  de  seu  antigo  senhor  e “benfeitor,”  havia 
conquistado  a confian^a  e o afeto  do  portugues,  assim  como  as  alforrias,  o 
local  de  moradia  e os  meios  de  trabalho  e de  sustento.  E o liberto  apropriara- 
se,  ainda,  de  um  conhecimento  bastante  especializado. 

Outro  casal,  Caspar  e Anna,  beneficiaram-se,  tambem,  de  alguns  bens 
deixados  pelo  antigo  senhor,  o portugues  e celibatario  Felix  Saraiva,  morador 
no  arraial  das  Sete  Lagoas,  onde  fez  seu  testamento,  em  1784.  A origem  de 
ambos  nao  foi  registrada,  mas  outros  onze  escravos  pertencentes  a Felix  eram 


EDUARDO  FRANgA  PAIVA 


34 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


africanos  (oriundos  de  Angola,  Bengiiela  e Congo)  e apenas  um  era  cabra,  o 
qiie  aumenta  as  chances  do  casal  tambem  ter  cruzado  o Atlantico  em  direq:ao  a 
America  portiiguesa.  Caspar  ficou  liberto  em  testamento,  por  pagar  200$000 
reis  (duzentos  mil  reis)  e Anna,  escreveu  o testador,  foi  libertada  “pelo  amor  de 
Dens  e pelo  muito  bem  qiie  me  serviu  sempre.”’^  E continuou: 

Declaro  que  todos  os  mens  trastes  de  casa,  como  cavalo  capao  selado  e enfreado 
deixo  ao  meu  Caspar  [...].  Pe^o  ao  meu  testamenteiro  que  favore^a  ao  dito  meu 
Caspar  e a sua  mulher  Anna  porque  espero  deles  Iho  merecerao  e em  quanto  aos 
mais  [escravos]  rogo  pelo  amor  de  Deus  ao  meu  herdeiro  e testamenteiro  Ihe  de 
todos  os  sabados  livres  nos  sens  servi^os  para  se  poderem  aumentar  de  alguma 
forma  e todo  aquele  que  o merecer  e poder  dar  um  moleque  por  si  pe^o  ao  meu 
testamenteiro  Iho  aceite  e Ihe  passe  sua  carta  de  liberdade  pelo  amor  de  Deus, 
pelos  bons  servi^os  que  me  tern  feito.'*^ 

Fica  esclarecido,  nesse  caso,  como  o escravo  Caspar  havia  conseguido 
ajuntar  200$000  reis  para  comprar,  com  eles,  sua  alforria,  expediente  que, 
de  resto,  foi  usado  por  muitos  outros  senhores  e escravos  no  setecentos  min- 
eiro.  Este  e,  inclusive,  um  bom  exemplo  daquilo  que  se  chamou  de  “brecha 
camponesa”  e que,  na  verdade,  nunca  teve  carater  excepcional,  alem  de  ser 
pratica  recurrence  nas  areas  urbanasd^  O casal,  certamente,  havia  aproveit- 
ado  de  maneira  eficaz  a oportunidade  aparentemente  oferecida  sem  qualquer 
resistencia  pelo  antigo  proprietario.  Para  ampliar  suas  conquistas,  eles  nao 
hesitaram  em  ganhar  uma  maior  simpatia  do  portugues.  Anna,  por  ser  a linica 
mulher  do  conjunto  de  cativos  possufdo  por  Eelix,  deve  ter  desempenhado 
papel  especial  nesse  jogo  de  mutuos  interesses.  O resultado  e obvio:  alem  da 
liberdade,  um  cavalo  selado,  trastes  da  casa  e a promessa  de  favorecimento, 
Nao  era  pouca  coisa  para  quern  safa  do  cativeiro. 

Legados  mais  ricos  foram  deixados  pela  preta  forra  Antonia  Nunes  dos 
Anjos,  natural  da  Cidade  da  Bahia,  filha  de  “pais  naturais  da  Vila  da  Mina,” 
moradora  em  Sahara,  em  1740,  quando  seu  testamento  foi  redigido.  A testa- 
dora  declarava  logo  no  inicio  do  texto:  “[...]  sou  forra  ha  vinte  e cantos  anos 
e me  forrei  no  Caminho  da  Bahia,  vindo  para  estas  Minas,  pela  quantia  de 
duas  livras  de  ouro,  entregues  a Manoel  Nunes  Velho,  como  consta  de  minha 
carta  de  Liberdade.”  Solteira,  sem  filhos  e dona  de  um  notavel  patrimonio 
material,  Antonia  mantinha  negocios  com  varios  homens  livres  em  outras 
vilas  e arraiais  mineiros  e no  Rio  de  Janeiro.  A compra  e venda  de  escravos 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


35 


fazia  parte  de  suas  transa^oes  financeiras.  Ela  mesma  possuia  cinco  escravos: 
Luiza  Mina  e os  filhos  dela,  a mulata  Jozepha,  a crioulinha  Antonia  e Jacob, 
alem  da  courana  Thereza,  que  deveria  ser  vendida.  Os  outros  quatro,  ao  con- 
trario,  foram  alforriados.  Mas  a testadora  dedicava  aten^ao  especial  a mulata 
Jozepha  e declarava:  “[•••]  a criei  e e forra  por  carta  de  alforria  que  Ihe  passei,  a 
qual  deixo  por  esmola  seis  pares  de  botoes  de  ouro,  uma  cruz  de  diamantes  e 
toda  roupa  de  meu  uso  E nao  parava  ai.  Ordenava  aos  testamenteiros 

a compra,  no  Rio  de  Janeiro,  de  “um  casal  de  moleques  de  Na^ao  Angola  ou 
Benguela,  no  valor  maximo  de  160$000  reis  ambos,”  a ser  entregue  a mulata 
Jozepha,  “caso  se  case.”  E casando-se,  se  o marido  quisesse  ir  para  a Bahia,  os  tes- 
tamenteiros deveriam  dar  a Jozepha  a “dita  quantia,  para  que  na  Bahia  adquira 
o que  for  de  seu  desejo.”  A mulata,  que  ja  havia  recebido  sua  alforria,  mas  con- 
tinuava  a viver  sob  o teto  de  Antonia,  perto  da  protetora  e,  tambem,  da  familia, 
tinha  realmente  despertado  o afeto  da  proprietaria.  E a familia  inteira  desfrutou 
de  tal  prestfgio.  Essa  era  uma  historia  que  a propria  Antonia  poderia  ter  viven- 
ciado  antes  de  comprar  sua  alforria.  Talvez  tenha  sido  por  meio  de  mecanismos 
e estratagemas  semelhantes  que  ela  conseguira  se  forrar  “no  caminho  da  Bahia, 
vindo  para  estas  Minas,”  como  fizera  questao  de  ressaltar. 

Outro  bom  exemplo  encontra-se  registrado  no  testamento  da  preta  forra 
Maria  de  Freitas  Barracha,  natural  da  Costa  da  Mina,  “de  onde  vim  paga,”  como 
salientava,  e batizada,  continuava,  assistindo  “na  Igreja  Grande  de  Sahara.” 
A testadora,  entretanto,  era  moradora  da  vila  de  Sao  Joao  Del  Rei,  em  1770, 
data  do  testamento.  Nao  era  casada,  nao  tinha  filhos,  nem  parentes.  A consid- 
erar  os  escolhidos  por  ela  para  receberem  sens  legados,  os  relacionamentos  mais 
proximos  que  desenvolvera  envolviam  mulheres  escravas  e forras.  Somados,  seus 
bens  valiam  quase  200$000  reis,  inclufdos  tres  escravos,  um  “Angola,  velho, 
doente,”  uma  crioula  e uma  africana  da  Mina  que  encontrava-se  coartada. 
A casa  em  que  vivia  ja  tinha  sido  vendida  e nao  entrava  no  monte  dos  bens. 
Depois  de  saldadas  suas  diVidas  e efetuados  seus  legados  pios,  a fortuna  de 
Maria  deveria  ser  repartida  igualmente  entre  a preta  Gertrudes  de  Freitas,  forra, 
antiga  escrava  da  testadora,  que  tinha  “mais  de  vinte  e cinco  anos,”  a crioula 
Rita  de  Freitas,  forra,  antiga  escrava  de  Maria,  que  tambem  tinha  “mais  de  vinte 
e cinco  anos,”  e a parda  Roza  de  Mello,  orfa,  filha  de  Jozefa  de  Mello,  “de  quinze 
anos.”  Envolvidas  numa  rede  de  solidariedade  feminina  e de  grupo  social, elas 
herdariam  da  amiga  desde  len9ois  de  linho,  toalhas,  roupas,  moveis  e objetos  de 
cozinha,  ate  tres  sopeiras  de  barro,  uma  chocolateira  de  cobre,  um  estrado,  espe- 
tos  e balan9a  de  ferro  e um  oratorio  com  a “Senhora  da  Concei9ao  de  barro. 


EDUARDO  FRANCA  PAIVA 


36 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Como  se  ve,  aqLielas  imagens  comentadas  acima,  depreciativas  e desquali- 
Hcadoras  dos  libertos,  nao  achavam,  no  dia-a-dia,  de  modo  geral,  qualquer 
SListenta^ao  no  secLilo  XVIII  mineiro.  E apenas  isso  ja  e suficiente  para  denun- 
ciar  sen  emprego  indevido  para  o periodo  escravista  brasileiro  e para  as  tao 
diferentes  regioes  da  Colonia  e do  Imperio. 

Libertos  e libertas  sorveram  daquela  sociedade  escravista  todas  as  opor- 
tunidades  existentes  de  trabalho,  de  onde  retiravam  os  recursos  financeiros 
necessarios  para  a vida  no  dia-a-dia.  Outras  vezes,  diante  de  interdi(;6es 
impostas,  inventaram  e exploraram  outras  possibilidades  de  sobreviven- 
cia  cotidiana.  Claro  e que  nem  todos  tinham  muito  o que  legar  ou  mesmo 
que  testar  diante  da  iminencia  da  morte.  A maioria  dos  forros  nao  chegou 
a conhecer  outra  condi^ao  material  de  vida  que  nao  tenha  sido  a pobreza. 
Contudo,  souberam  gerenciar  suas  liberdades  e nao  pereceram  suplicando  a 
piedade  e a condolencia  dos  ex-proprietarios  nas  soleiras  das  casas  senhoriais. 
Houve  os  que,  ao  contrario,  chegaram  mesmo  a deixar  legados  materiais  para 
os  antigos  senhores.^^ 

Entre  os  antigos  escravos  que  ajuntaram  alguma  fortuna,  alguns  conta- 
ram,  portanto,  com  legados  feitos  por  terceiros,  desde  ex-senhores  ate  amigos. 
Mas,  na  maior  parte  dos  casos,  o conjunto  de  bens  foi  adquirido  ao  longo  dos 
anos  e atraves  do  trabalho  realizado  pelos  proprios  forros  e por  sens  cativos. 
As  vezes,  tal  esfor^o  ficou  frisado  nos  escritos  testamentais.  A Mina,  Maria 
de  Freitas  Barracha,  citada  imediatamente  acima,  deixou  registrado:  “[...] 
todos  os  bens  que  possuo  foram  por  mim  adquiridos.”^"^  Ja  Quiteria  Alves  da 
Fonceca,  preta  Mina  forra,  solteira,  compradora  de  sua  carta  de  liberdade  e 
moradora  em  Santa  Barbara,  em  1774  dizia  nao  possuir  herdeiros:  “[•••]  nem 
dentro  nem  fora  do  quarto  grau  e de  serem  todos  os  bens  que  possuo  todos 
adquiridos  pelo  meu  trabalho,  servi^o  e industria  e por  isso,  usando  desta 
faculdade,  nomeio  e instituo  por  meu  legitimo  herdeiro 

E o pardo  forro  Manoel  da  Fonceca  Pereira  faz  declara^oes  semelhantes 
apos  esclarecer  que  era  filho  natural  do  Coronel  Manoel  de  Afonceca  Pereira 
e de  Marianna  de  Aragam  Pereira,  crioula  forra,  ja  falecida  naquele  tempo. 
Manoel  morava  no  arraial  de  Sao  Gon^alo  do  Rio  Abaixo  de  Santa  Barbara, 
termo  de  Vila  Nova  da  Rainha,  em  1777.  Ele  instituiu  como  testamenteira  a 
propria  esposa,  fato  duas  vezes  raro.  Afinal,  quase  nunca  essa  tarefa  foi  assum- 
ida  por  uma  mulher  e muito  menos  por  uma  forra.  O testador  deixou  nas 
entrelinhas  que  nada  ou  quase  nada  ganhara  de  seu  pai  e nao  esconde  uma 
certa  magoa.  Dizia  ele  entao: 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  37 

Declaro  que  os  bens  que  possuo  nao  foram  herdados,  mas  sim  adquiridos  pelo  men 
trabalho  e indiistria  e de  minha  mulher,  que  e Quiteria  da  Comceip^ao,  preta  forra, 
natural  da  Costa  da  Mina,  com  a qual  contrai  o Sacramento  do  matrimonio,  a qual 
pertence  a metade  de  minha  fazenda,  depois  de  pagas  as  diVidas  que  devemos.^*" 

Declara^oes  como  as  reproduzidas  acima,  quando  feitas  por  forms,  deman- 
dam  leituras  especiais.  No  caso  da  africana  Maria,  talvez  signifique  dizer  que 
nao  dependera  de  algum  homem — marido,  ex-proprietario  ou  algum  prote- 
tor — para  ascender  economicamente  e conquistar  certo  status  social,  mesmo 
que  apenas  entre  um  pequeno  agrupamento  de  forras.  Quiteria,  que  conse- 
guiu  tambem  acumular  variado  conjunto  material,  parece  ter  tido  objetivo 
semelhante  ao  de  Maria.  Entretanto,  fazia  absoluta  questao  de  ostentar  a 
capacidade  de  orientar  sua  propria  vida,  o que  ela  nomeava  “faculdade.”  Ja 
para  o pardo  forro  e bastardo  Manoel,  palavras  quase  identicas  pareciam  tor- 
nar  publico  que  ajuntara  certo  cabedal  com  a mulher,  e independentemente 
da  ajuda  ou  de  doa^oes  do  pai  coronel.  E para  a preta  forra  vinda  da  Costa 
da  Mina,  Joseffa  Fires,  declara^es  parecidas  explicitam,  com  certo  brio,^^  a 
autonomia  pessoal  e a autoridade  matriarcal  adquiridas  ao  longo  dos  anos. 
Moradora  no  arraial  de  Santa  Barbara  em  1771,  escolheu  cinco  homens  para 
integrar  sua  lista  de  testamenteiros:  os  maridos  de  duas  de  suas  netas,  dois  de 
seus  netos  e,  finalmente,  seu  linico  filho,  que  morava  nas  Minas  do  Paracatu. 

Antes,  porem,  no  inicio  do  testamento,  registrara  por^ao  de  sua  trajetoria  de 
vida.  Joseffa  dizia,  entao,  que  saira  da  Costa  da  Mina  em  dire^ao  a “Cidade 
da  Bahia  de  Todos  os  Santos,”  onde  havia  sido  comprada  e transferida  para 
as  Minas  Gerais.  Foi  batizada  “no  sertao  onde  chamam  o Rio  das  Contas”  e 
continuava  dizendo  que  “pela  gra^a  de  Deus  [era]  crista”  e que  havia  pago  o 
seu  valor  por  sua  carta  de  alforria.^^  Registrava  finalmente: 

[...]  nunca  fui  casada,  sempre  me  conserve!  no  estado  de  solteira,  tenho  sim  um 
filho  [...]  pardo  [...]  e assim  mais  tenho  duas  filhas  [uma  parda  e outra  crioula 
forra]  [...],  aquele  e estas  sao  meus  filhos  nas  Gerais  e a todos  tres  os  nomeio  e 
instituo  por  meus  legftimos  e vivos  herdeiros  nas  duas  razoes  dos  meus  bens  [...]. 

Declaro  que  os  bens  que  possuo  foram  adquiridos  pelo  meu  trabalho  e industria 
nestas  Minas. 

Os  bens  materials  possuidos  por  Joseffa  nao  chegaram  a ser  arrolados  em 
seu  testamento.  Contudo  foram  listados  seus  7 escravos,  alem  de  esmolas  no 


EDUARDO  FRANQA  PAIVA 


38 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


valor  de  36$000  reis  legadas  as  irmandades  de  Nossa  Senhora  do  Rosario  e 
de  Santo  Antonio  do  arraial  e a Santa  Casa  de  Jerusalem.  Isso  sugere  que  a 
testadora  havia  conseguido,  entao,  contabilizar  alguma  fortuna  no  final  de 
SLia  vida.  Em  nenhtim  momento,  ela  fez  qualquer  referenda  aos  pais  de  seus 
filhos.  Sua  vida  tinha  sido  organizada,  pois,  sem  a interferencia  direta  e sem  o 
siistento  material  desses  homens. 

Registros  como  os  precedentes  devem  ter  sido  realmente  importante 
para  esses  forros  expeditos  que,  como  tantos  outros,  nao  esperaram  ganhar 
liberdade  e condi(;6es  materiais  de  vida,  mas  as  conquistaram  no  dia-a-dia, 
desde  o periodo  de  cativeiro.  Para  conquistarem  esses  espa90s  de  autonomia 
dentro  do  universo  escravista  colonial  foi  preciso,  evidentemente,  encarar  os 
mais  diversos  tipos  de  trabalho.  Muitos  libertos  continuaram,  apos  obten^ao 
da  Carta,  nas  ruas  e pranas,  oferecendo  mao-de-obra  avulsa  para  quase  toda 
tarefa.  Permaneciam,  entao,  a trabalhar  como  os  escravos  de  ganho,  categoria 
que  inumeros  forros  conheciam  muito  bem,  por  meio  da  qual  haviam  ajun- 
tado  o peculio  usado  na  compra  da  liberdade."^® 

Algumas  ocupa^oes  foram  assumidas  tanto  por  homens,  quanto  por  mul- 
heres.  Era  o caso  dos  cozinheiros(as)  e vendeiros(as)  ambulantes  de  bebidas, 
de  frutas  e de  outros  alimentos.  Da  mesma  forma,  repartiram  entre  si  tare- 
fas  contratadas  nas  ruas,  tais  como  entregar  recados,  carregar  agua,  transportar 
objetos  e lavar  urinois.  Assim,  embora  fossem  forros,  esses  homens  e mulheres 
misturavam-se,  no  cotidiano,  com  os  escravos  e os  coartados,  que  exploravam  as 
mesmas  possibilidades  de  auferir  recursos — e com  livres  pobres,  brancos  e nao 
brancos,  que,  por  nao  terem  recursos,  executavam  tarefas  identicas.  A troca  de 
experiencias  e de  conhecimentos  tecnicos  ocorria  inevitavelmente,  assim  como 
as  disputas  e desaven^as.  Mas  a demanda  por  esse  tipo  de  trabalhador  foi  grande 
o suficiente  para  manter  esse  mercado  vigoroso  durante  todo  o seculo  XVIIL 

Houve,  tambem,  certa  divisao  sexual  de  trabalho  entre  os  forros.  As  mul- 
heres dominaram  o pequeno  comercio  de  secos  e molhados,  isto  e,  as  vendas, 
embora  existissem  homens,  livres  e forros,  que  se  ocupassem  dessas  bitacas.^' 
Lima  descri^ao  dos  objetos  que  compunham  essas  vendas  foi  feita  em  um 
inventario  post-mortem  do  portugues  Antonio  da  Silva  Reis,  em  1762,  na  vila 
de  Sao  Joao  Del  Rei.  Embora  nao  seja  venda  de  proprietaria(o)  negra(o),  os 
itens  arrolados  na  bitaca  do  portugues  sao,  praticamente,  os  mesmos  encon- 
trados  esparsamente  nos  documentos  dos  forros  envolvidos  nessa  atividade. 
Entre  instrumentos  de  trabalho,  objetos  de  uso  cotidiano,  bebidas  e alimen- 
tos, tudo  avaliado  pelos  inventariantes,  Antonio  contara  entao  com: 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


39 


quatro  frascos  de  aguardente  do  Reino 

3$600  [reis]^^ 

meio  frasco  de[i] 

$700 

quatro  frascos  de  vinagre  do  Reino 

2S400 

dezoito  frascos  de  vidro  vazios 

2S700 

oito  cascos  de  barris  vazios 

2S200 

tres  copos  pequenos 

$450 

uma  balan^a 

1S200 

uma  balanga  de  folha  de  Flandres 

1S200 

tres  j arras 

$450 

tres  fornos\f\  de  medidas 

1S200 

[?]  [?]  de  barro 

$600 

um  prato 

$600 

meia  [?]  de  toucinho 

[?] 

um  alqueire  de  farinha 

$300 

quatro  alqueires  de  feijao 

$4502^ 

Seguiam  sendo  listados  e avaliados  outros  objetos,  esses  de  uso  domestico 
do  testador,  como  “uma  coberta  de  papa — 1$500;  quatro  len^ois  de  pano  de 
linho  usados — 3$600;  um  colchao  de  linhagem — $900;  tres  pratos  peque- 
nos — $750;  um  catre  tosco — 1 $200;  dois  mochos  e uma  banquinha — 1 $200; 
um  bufete  de  pau — 2$400;  um  banco — $600.”  Nada  mais  que  isso  e apenas 
um  escravo  Angola  “que  se  acha  por  pagar  todo,”  alem  de  varias  outras  divi- 
das,  de  alguns  creditos  e de  82  oitavas  de  ouro  em  p6.  Como  era  de  costume, 
a venda  funcionava  na  propria  casa  do  portugues.  A mistura  entre  os  objetos 
pertencentes  a ela  e o parco  mobiliario  e demais  itens  de  uso  pessoal,  feita  no 
seu  inventario  post-mortem,  atesta  essa  situa^ao  comum  tambem  entre  os  for- 
ros  e forras  vendeiros.  E Antonio  evidenciava  esse  habito  em  seu  testamento: 
“Declaro  que  ao  presente  possuo  uma  venda  nas  casas  onde  moro  com  os 
efeitos  que  dela  constar 

Entre  os  pertences  da  venda  de  Quiteria  Gomes  Ferreira,  preta  forra  natu- 
ral da  Costa  da  Mina  e moradora  em  Santa  Luzia,  em  1779,  constavam: 


[...]  um  tacho  de  cobre  grande,  cabendo  aproximadamente  tres  barris  de  agua,  outro 
tacho  de  cobre  com  capacidade  de  um  barril  de  agua,  uma  bacia  de  cobre  de  capaci- 


EDUARDO  FRANgA  PAIVA 


40 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


dade  de  dois  barris  de  agua,  uma  bacia  de  doce,  [...]  dois  pratos  grandes  de  estanho 
e varies  trastes  de  casa,  trastes  e medidas  sortidas  de  venda  e assim  mais  algumas 
dividas  que  da  venda  se  me  deve  por  rol  e alguns  bilheres  que  constarem 

Novamente,  casa  e venda  funcionavam  juntas,  confundindo-se,  uma  ser- 
vindo  e dando  suporte  as  atividades  desenvolvidas  na  outra.  Aos  olhos  atentos 
das  atitoridades  colonials  essa  fusao  entre  publico  e privado  amea9ava  a orde- 
na^ao  social  em  vigor. 

As  vendas  das  mulheres  forras  foram  tao  numerosas  nas  areas  urbanas 
mineiras  e o ajuntamento  de  escravos  e forros  nesses  endere^os  foi  tao  intenso 
que  houve  legisla^ao  especialmente  repressoria  desses  casos.  As  medidas,  nem 
sempre  muito  eficazes,  tentaram  coibir,  tambem,  as  atividades  das  negras  de 
tabuleiro,  isto  e,  vendeiras  ambulantes,  que  por  vezes  possuiam  vendas  fixas 
oil  estavam  vinculadas  aos  donos  das  vendolas,  tantos  os  livres,  quanto  os  for- 
ros  de  ambos  os  sexos.^^ 

Alem  do  pequeno  comercio  de  alimentos,  as  libertas  ocupavam-se  com 
as  costuras,  os  teares,  a lava^ao  de  roupa,  a amamenta^ao  remunerada,  os 
partos,  a cria9ao  de  enjeitados  paga  pelas  Camaras  das  vilas  e,  tambem,  com  a 
prostitui9ao.  Um  exemplo  extraordinario  de  enriquecimento  e de  autonomia 
foi  deixado  pela  forra  Gracia  Dias  de  Oliveira,  natural  de  Angola  “e  batizada 
na  cidade  dos  Congos,”  moradora  no  arraial  do  Sutil,  termo  da  vila  de  Sao 
Joao  Del  Rei,  em  1762,  data  de  seu  testamento.  Gracia  nao  tinha  filhos,  era 
casada  com  o preto  Joao  Francisco  de  Mira  e,  para  realizar  o matrimonio  “em 
face  da  Igreja,”  o havia  comprado  por  duas  livras  de  ouro  (aproximadamente 
128  oitavas  de  ouro  ou  192$000  reis)  e o alforriado.  Dai  a enorme  autonomia 
demonstrada  por  ela  com  rela9ao  a disposi9ao  dos  bens  do  casal,  que,  efetiva- 
mente,  mais  parecem  ter  sido  dela — as  roupas  de  uso  do  marido,  por  exemplo, 
nao  constavam  da  listagem.  O montante  inventariado,  inclufdos  sete  escravos, 
gado  vacum,  bens  moveis  e imoveis,  alcan9ava  1.210$783  reis  (um  conto, 
duzentos  e dez  mil,  setecentos  e oitenta  e tres  reis).  Nao  se  encontram  com- 
putados  ai  os  creditos  que  dizia  possuir — “uma  morada  de  casas  das  que  pos- 
suo,”  legadas  “a  Nossa  Senhora  do  Rosario  desta  dita  vila” — nem  outras  duas 
casas,  deixadas  a duas  mulheres  solteiras  que  eram  orfas  de  pai,  “para  ajuda  de 
seus  dotes.”  Um  dos  detalhes  importantes  desse  documento  e a constata9ao 
de  que  a testadora  e seu  marido  tinham  optado,  assim  como  varios  dos  mais 
ricos  testadores  livres,  pela  diversifica9ao  das  atividades  economicas.  A op9ao 
dera  resultado  aqui  tambem.  O casal  ou,  talvez  seja  melhor  insistir,  Gracia 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  41 

possuia  mais  de  uma  morada  de  casas,  que  alugadas  possibilitariam  alguma 
renda.  Na  casa  que  moravam  contavam  com  planta^es  na  chacara  e criavam 
seis  cabe^as  de  gado  vacum,  alem  de  provaveis  porcos  e galinhas  que  nao  entr- 
aram  no  inventario.  Objetos  tais  como  balan^as  de  pesar  ouro  e “de  folhas  [de 
Flandres,  certamente]  com  peso  de  ferro,”  frascos  de  vidro,  cascos  de  barril, 
caixao  de  madeira  “de  guardar  mantimentos,”  varios  pratos  de  estanho,  sendo 
dois  deles  “de  meia  cozinha”  e tachos  de  cobre  sugerem  a existencia  de  uma 
venda.  Alem  disso,  possuia  “parte  das  terras  e aguas  minerals  ditas  na  paragem 
do  Sutil,”  a propriedade  individualmente  mais  cara,  avaliada  em  400$000 
reis.  Trata-se,  portanto,  de  fato  ainda  pouco  estudado  pela  historiografia:  uma 
africana  forra  possuidora  de  servi^os  de  minera9ao. 

O afilhado  e as  quatro  afilhadas  da  angolana  Gracia,  e ainda  os  filhos 
de  amigos  da  testadora,  todos  protegidos  por  ela,  atestam  a influencia  e a 
importancia  alcan^ada  por  ela  entre  forros  e os  livres  habitantes  da  mesma 
regiao.  Gracia,  assim  como  outras  forras,  foi  notavel  construtora  e usuaria  de 
espa^os  de  sociabilidade  em  Sao  Joao  del  Rei,  exemplo  certamente  seguido 
por  cativas(os)  e por  libertas(os)A^ 

Os  homens  forros,  por  sua  vez,  vincularam-se  a ocupa^oes  majoritariamente 
masculinas.  A mineraqao  e faisca^ao  foram  algumas  dessas  atividades  pratica- 
das  por  homens  livres,  libertos  e escravos.  A angolana  Gracia  era  proprietaria 
das  lavras,  mas  nao  trabalhava  nelas.  Mulheres  raramente  eram  empregadas  no 
processo  direto  de  extra^ao  mineral  (nao  obstante  existirem  registros  sobre  isso, 
inclusive  iconograficos),  embora  pudessem  desempenhar  tarefas  perifericas  e 
dar  suporte  complementar  atraves  de  seus  tabuleiros,  da  presta^ao  de  servi^os 
gerais  e ate  do  contrabando.  Na  documenta^ao  colonial  sao  mesmo  os  homens 
que  aparecem,  na  maioria  das  vezes,  vinculados  a essas  atividades  extrativas. 

O preto  forro  Ventura  de  Barros,  por  exemplo,  morador  em  Sao  Joao  Del 
Rei,  em  1750,  quando  faleceu  ab  intestato,  dependia  da  minera^ao  para  sus- 
tentar  a numerosa  e modesta  familia.  Ele  trabalhava  junto  com  dois  escravos 
seus  na  Cata  do  Corrego  Seco,  pertencente  ao  coronel  Joze  de  Barros,  seu 
antigo  senhor.  Sua  mulher,  a preta  forra  Leonor  Cardoza,  ocupava-se  dos  seis 
filhos  do  marido,  dos  quais  dois  apenas  havidos  com  elaA^ 

Os  homens  forros  e escravos  dominavam  outra  sorte  de  trabalho:  os  oficios 
mecanicos7^  Eram  ferreiros,  carpinteiros,  pedreiros,  alfaiates,  pintores,  entre  out- 
ros  tipos.  Pedro  de  Almeida  Faria,  pardo,  incluia-se  nesse  grupo.  Natural  e mora- 
dor de  Sahara,  ele  declarou  em  testamento  datado  de  1764  que  tinha  oficio  e 
aprendiz,  embora  nada  mais  tenha  especificado.  Contudo,  uma  boa  quantidade 


EDUARDO  FRANQA  PAIVA 


42 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


de  moveis,  iilguns  teitos  em  jacaranda  e torneados,  foi  listada  no  testamento, 
alem  das  ferramentas  Lisadas,  que  eram  formoes,  serra  bra^al,  serrote  e machado. 
Estes  detalhes  demonstram  que  Pedro  era  carpinteiro  ou  carapina,  termos  usados 
habitualmente.  O aprendiz  pode  ter  sido  um  de  seus  dois  escravos:  o crioulo 
Benedito  oli  o “moleque  novo,  ainda  bo^al,”  que  nao  foi  nomeado.^® 

Havia  alguns  forros  que  se  dedicavam  ao  comercio  tambem.  O preto  Mina 
Bernardo  Correa,  negociante  de  mercadoria  miuda  na  vila  de  Sao  Joao  Del 
Rei  e na  regiao  proxima,  foi  assassinado  nos  arrabaldes  da  vizinha  Sao  Jose  Del 
Rei,  talvez  cobrando  alguma  diVida.'^'  Outro  Mina,  o forro  Manoel  da  Costa, 
viveu  menos  infortunios  que  o seu  colega.  Conheceu  alguma  fortuna  material 
nas  minas  do  Paracatu,  arraial  onde  residia  em  1776.  Logo  de  inicio,  declara 
no  testamento  ter  pago  seu  valor  ao  antigo  dono,  de  quern  recebeu  a carta  de 
allorria.  Manoel  nao  era  casado,  nao  tinha  filhos  e sua  unica  herdeira  era  a irma 
de  “pai  e mae,”  a forra  Roza  Pinto  da  Trindade,  que  fica  instituida  herdeira  do 
irmao.  Entre  os  bens  de  Manoel  achavam-se  quatro  moradas  de  casas,  das  quais 
pelo  menos  tres  eram  cobertas  de  telha,  “umas  lavras  no  morro,  [...]  parte  de 
Sao  Domingos  do  qual  [tinha]  titulo  delas  em  [seu]  poder,  [...]  uma  chacara  na 
paragem  chamada  a Costa  da  Mina  e mais  uma  ro^a  em  Santa  Isabel,  na  qual 
[era]  socio  com  Antonio  da  Costa,”  onze  escravos,  todos  homens  africanos  e 
creditos  derivados  de  negocios  “fiados,”  realizados  na  venda  que  possuia."^^  Nao 
aparecem  listados  no  testamento  os  bens  de  uso  cotidiano  desse  africano  forro, 
que  saudoso  e brioso  de  sua  identidade,  nao  hesitou  dotar  a chacara  brasileira 
com  o mesmo  nome  da  terra  de  origem  (melhor  seria  dizer,  porto  de  origem), 
situada  alem-mar,  Alem  disso,  vemos  aqui  um  registro  raro  de  manuten9ao  de 
la^os  familiares  africanos  em  terras  da  America  portuguesa  e,  sem  duvida,  um 
testemunho  ainda  mais  raro  da  reinven^ao  da  Africa  na  America  e da  incorpora- 
9ao  identitaria,  por  parte  de  africanos,  de  uma  certa  Africa  inventada  pelos  por- 
tugueses,  no  seculo  XV — a Mina.  Mas  esse  tema  foge  ao  escopo  do  texto,  nao 
obstante  sua  enorme  importancia.  Voltemos  ks  condi^oes  de  vida  e as  atividades 
produtivas  as  quais  forros  e forras  das  Minas  Gerais  setecentistas  se  vinculavam. 

O comercio  associava-se,  intimamente,  a mobilidade  social,  no  que  se 
refere  a possibilidade  de  ascensao  economica,  e tambem  ao  transito  entre 
diversas  regioes.  Jose  Machado  Affon^o  demonstrou  isso  claramente  em  seu 
testamento,  redigido  em  1770.  No  documento,  feito  no  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Jose 
Machado  esclarecia:  “Declaro  que  sou  natural  e batizado  em  Angola  [...] 
livre  e liberto  sem  obriga^ao  alguma  e por  hora  assisto  no  Taquara^u,  junto  a 
Capela  de  Nossa  Senhora  da  Penha  [termo  da  vila  de  Sahara]  [...].”'^^ 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  43 

O forro  dizia,  ainda,  ser  “viandante,  com  seus  negocios”  e,  mais  a frente, 
complementava  as  informa^oes  declarando  ter  algumas  poucas  diVidas  na 
Cidade  da  Bahia  e ter  “negocios  de  cavalos”  entre  Minas  Gerais  e Pernambuco. 
Finalmente,  ordenava  que  “todos  os  bens  e trastes  de  roupa  de  uso,  objetos 
[em]  prata  e ouro  se  repartirao  com  os  pobres  ou  em  especie  ou  em  valor.” 

Assim,  evidenciava  a existencia  de  uma  fazenda  suficientemente  alargada  para 
que  ele  proprio  se  diferenciasse  dos  pobres  a quern  legava  seus  bens.^"^ 

Em  varias  oportunidades,  libertos  e libertas  alugaram  alguns  de  seus  escra- 
vos.  O recurso,  tambem  usado  pelos  senhores  livres,  servia  aos  que  nao  que- 
riam  e nao  precisavam  se  ocupar  com  o trabalho  manual,  mas,  tambem,  aos 
que  vislumbraram  ai  uma  maneira  de  aumentar  o rendimento  domestico. 

Maria  Cardoza  da  Silva,  vinda  da  Costa  da  Mina  e alforriada  mediante  paga- 
mento,  foi  usuaria  dessa  formula.  Ela  nao  tinha  muitos  bens  alem  do  rancho 
de  capim  onde  morava  em  Sao  Joao  Del  Rei  e de  um  segundo,  coberto  do 
mesmo  material,  situado  “na  paragem  chamada  Luanda”;  outra  referenda  a 
localidades  no  Brasil  que  recebiam  nomes  de  regioes  africanas.  Possuia,  ainda, 
cinco  escravos:  uma  mae  africana  com  duas  filhas  crioulas  e outros  dois  crio- 
ulinhos,  dos  quais  alugava,  pelo  menos,  uma  das  mulheres.  No  testamento 
aprovado  em  1778  ela  acusava  ter  um  credito  com  um  tal  Joao  Gonsalves,  no 
valor  de  “duas  oitavas,  tres  quartos  e dois  vintens,”  procedido  de  “jornais  de 
uma  escrava  minha.”^^ 

No  caso  do  aluguel  de  escravos  do  sexo  masculino,  a destina^ao  deles  era, 
em  muitos  casos,  a mesma:  lavras  e catas  minerals.  Esse  setor  absorvia  nas 
Minas,  desde  meados  do  setecentos  pelo  menos,  mao-de-obra  escrava  alugada 
e nao  faltaram  proprietarios  livres  e forros  interessados  no  negocio.^^  A per- 
nambucana  Marianna  do  Rego  Barros,  parda  forra,  moradora  em  casas  cober- 
tas  de  telhas,  situadas  na  Rua  Direita  da  vila  de  Sao  Jose  Del  Rei,  em  1760,  era 
senhora  de  tres  escravos.  O unico  homem  do  grupo,  Manoel  Angola,  trabal- 
hava  nas  lavras  de  um  certo  Angelo  Martins.  Manoel  encontrava-se  alugado  e 
os  rendimentos  de  Marianna  eram,  portanto,  aumentados  com  os  jornais,  isto 
e,  o valor  das  jornadas  de  trabalho,  pagos  a ela  pelo  contratador.^^  De  forma 
parecida  procedera  o preto  forro  Ventura  de  Barros,  citado  acima.  Ele  trazia 
dois  escravos  alugados  ao  seu  antigo  senhor,  na  cata  do  Corrego  Sego,  onde  o 
proprio  Ventura  trabalhava  minerando."^^ 

Os  senhores,  entre  eles  os  forros  e os  descendentes  livres  desses  forros,  con- 
tavam  com  outras  formas  de  auferir  lucros  com  o trabalho  prestado  por  seus 
escravos  a terceiros.  Pelo  menos  duas  delas  foram  muito  comuns,  sobretudo 


EDUARDO  FRANgA  PAIVA 


44 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


nas  areas  mais  urbanizadas  da  America  portuguesa  e das  Minas  Gerais,  onde 
a demanda  de  mao-de-obra  era  maior.  Trata-se  dos  escravos  de  ganho  e 
dos  coartados,  qiie,  de  tato,  nao  tinham  ainda  abandonado  a condi^ao  de 
escravos.  Uns  e outros  transferiam  sens  ganhos  para  os  senhores,  parcial  ou 
integralmente.  E os  individuos  incluidos  em  ambas  as  categorias  acabavam 
envolvendo-se  em  atividades  muito  semelhantes  e experimentando  mobili- 
dade  tambem  parecida. 

Dificilmente,  portanto,  libertos  e libertas  deixaram  de  trabalhar,  mesmo 
quando  possuiam  escravos.  Evidentemente  houve  exce^oes  e o afastamento 
do  trabalho  manual  nesses  casos  pode  ter  ocorrido  tanto  por  conta  da  fortuna 
acumulada,  quanto  por  impedimentos  causados  pela  idade  e pela  doen^a. 
Mas  a maioria  dos  forros  teve,  durante  quase  toda  sua  vida  em  liberdade,  que 
buscar  o sustento  cotidiano  ocupando-se  de  inumeras  atividades  economi- 
cas. Nas  Minas  Gerais  setecentistas,  sobretudo  nas  regioes  urbanas,  eles  e 
elas  engajaram-se  no  trabalho  de  maneira  eficaz  e criativa,  como  varios  deles 
deixaram  registrados  em  seus  testamentos.  E em  muitos  casos  emerge,  clara- 
mente,  a importancia  da  familia,  nuclear  e/ou  extensa,  como  condi^ao  basi- 
lar para  que  essa  situa^ao  social  se  conformasse,  aspecto  que  ainda  precisa 
ser  mais  bem  investigado.  Situa^oes  como  essas  se  repetiram  em  varias  out- 
ras  regioes  escravistas  do  Novo  Mundo,  desde  o seculo  XVI,  e,  antes  disso, 
cidades  como  Lisboa  e Sevilha,  entre  outras,  ainda  que  em  menor  dimensao, 
ja  haviam  se  transformado  em  espaq;os  privilegiados  para  o desenvolvimento 
dessas  possibilidades,  algumas  delas  transpostas  para  a America.  Desde  ai,  e no 
Novo  Mundo  de  forma  ainda  mais  alargada,  nao  ha  evidencias  que  permitam 
generalizar  a oposi^ao  entre  fortuna  acumulada  e rela^oes  pessoais,  inclusive, 
baseadas  em  solidariedades,  parentesco,  afetividade  e gratidao.  Enriquecer- 
se  ou  ascender  economicamente,  mesmo  para  ex-escravos  em  sociedades 
escravistas,  nao  significou,  em  absoluto,  desumanizar  as  rela^oes,  o que  nao 
significa  idiliza-las,  nem,  tampouco,  exterminar  dessa  realidade  os  conflitos, 
as  praticas  de  domina^ao  e os  exerdcios  do  poder. 

Conclusao 

Os  casos  tratados  nesse  texto  nao  devem  ser  vistos  sob  a formula  da  exce^ao. 
Eles,  definitivamente,  nao  o sao.  Na  verdade,  eles  sumariam  a dinamica,  a 
complexidade  e a pujan^a  da  sociedade  escravista  na  America  portuguesa  e, 
mais  especificamente,  nas  Minas  Gerais.  Mais  ainda,  os  relatos,  impressoes, 
indica^oes,  declara^oes,  observances,  insinuanoes  e legados  deixados  por  esses 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


45 


homens  e mulheres  evidenciavam  elementos  com  os  quais  eles  e muitos  out- 
ros  conviveram  no  cotidiano  e que  foram  produzidos  no  proprio  processo  de 
desenvolvimento  da  sociedade  colonial. 

Ha  mais  de  uma  decada,  os  estudos  sobre  a escravidao  no  Brasil  vem 
empreendendo  uma  grande  revisao  de  “verdades  historicas”  construidas, 
as  vezes  sem  base  em  qualquer  evidencia  empirica,  desde  o seculo  XIX,  e 
incorporadas  pelos  historiadores  do  seculo  XX,  sem  as  devidas  precau^oes. 
O “imaginario  do  tronco,”  como  venho  designando  esse  conjunto  de  ima- 
gens,  de  interpreta^oes,  de  valores  e de  juizos,  nem  sempre  compatfveis  com  a 
realidade  complexa  e polissemica  do  passado  escravista,  acaba  por  simplificar 
demasiadamente  processos  absolutamente  dinamicos,  multifacetados  e pro- 
vocadores  de  mudan^as  sociais  profundas,  que  envolveram  escravos,  forros 
e livres  do  Brasil  escravista  e pos-escravista.  Os  resultados  apresentados  pela 
historiografia  “revisionista,”  nao  obstante  representarem  um  avan^o  imenso 
no  conhecimento  que  hoje  temos  sobre  a sociedade  escravista,  e,  mais  ampla- 
mente,  sobre  as  sociedades  coloniais,  ainda  nao  repercutem  da  forma  como  se 
deseja,  tanto  no  saber  geral  sobre  o tema  e o pen'odo,  quanto,  mesmo,  entre  os 
estudiosos  fora  do  Brasil,  guardadas,  claro,  as  exce^oes.  Isso  abarca  nao  apenas 
os  resultados,  mas,  tambem,  os  aspectos  metodologicos  e conceituais  que  vem 
permitindo  a dinamica  renovadora  de  uma  historiografia  pujante,  mas  escrita, 
grosso  modo,  em  lingua  que  sofre  restri^oes  de  leitura  no  circuito  internacional. 

Foi-se  um  tempo  exageradamente  marcado  por  preceitos,  paradigmas  e 
outros  filtros  ideologicos,  que  acabou  impondo  reducionismos  e simplifica^oes 
a Historia,  via  imposi^ao  de  modelos  pre-estabelecidos,  de  aplicabilidade  pre- 
tensa  e equivocadamente  generalizada.  Contra  tais  procedimentos,  em  grande 
medida,  se  irrompeu  o revisionismo  historiografico  no  qual  esse  texto  se  inspira 
e do  qual  ele  e parte.  Forros  e escravos  nao  sao  tornados  aqui  nem  como  coisas 
(objetos  da  Historia,  instrumentos  de  trabalho,  itens  de  comercio  e de  nego- 
cia9oes,  sem  vontade  propria),  nem  como,  exclusivamente,  vitimas  da  historia. 
A atua^ao  deles  foi  muito  mais  complexa  e instigante  que  certas  duplas  con- 
ceituais, ainda  com  emprego  amplo — vitima  X algoz;  vencido  X vencedor; 
dominado  X dominante;  explorado  X explorador — , permitem  vislumbrar. 

Conceitos  mais  flexi'veis,  construfdos  e adaptados  no  proprio  processo  de 
constru^ao  historiografica,  sao  essenciais  nessa  nova  historia  da  escravidao  na 
America  portuguesa,  assim  como  o sao  para  outros  temas,  pen'odos  e regioes. 
Alguns  deles  foram  empregados  aqui  e possibilitaram,  desde  a pesquisa  real- 
izada  junto  a documenta^ao  colonial,  descortinar  historias  protagonizadas 


EDUARDO  FRANCA  PAIVA 


46 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


por  homcns  c miilhcres  qiie  assumiram,  mesmo  sem  assim  se  designar,  os 
papeis  de  agentes  historicos,  co-construtores  de  seu  proprio  tempo,  da  socie- 
dade  onde  vivlam.  Trata-se,  nesse  texto,  do  transito  material  e cultural,  da 
mobilidade  fisica,  da  conlorma^ao  de  espa^os  de  sociabilidade  e da  autonomia 
de  agao  que  africanos  e seus  descendentes,  tanto  escravos,  quanto  libertos 
e nascidos  livres,  experimentaram  enquanto  contribuiam  para  a organiza^ao 
daquele  universo  e para  a constru^ao  daquele  mundo  colonial.  Transformados 
em  conceitos  instigadores,  esses  elementos  da  yivencia  do  passado  ajudam  o 
historiador  de  hoje  a entender  melhor  a America  portuguesa  (nao  apenas  ela, 
evidentemente),  suas  peculiaridades,  sua  inser<;ao  no  Imperio  portugues,  e, 
ainda,  a sua  existencia  no  processo  de  mundializa^ao"^^  desde  o seculo  XVI. 

A partir  de  parametros  renovados  e mais  flexiVeis,  portanto  mais  proxi- 
mos  a propria  dinamica  historico-cultural  vivenciada  no  passado  e hoje,  ficou 
menos  complicado  se  estabelecer  um  dialogo  historico  e historiografico  com 
genre  que  viveu  no  seculo  XVIII.  Esse  dialogo  entre  o conceito  e a evidencia, 
formula  proposta  ha  decadas  por  E.  P.  Thompson, acabou  possibilitando 
minha  aproxima^ao  com  o passado  escravista  americano.  O contato  com  esses 
agentes  historicos  continuam  me  revelando  aspectos  cotidianos  esclarecedores 
da  complexidade  social  constituida  na  regiao.  A africana  Mina,  Quiteria  Alves 
da  Fonceca,  mulher  solteira  e forra,  mencionada  em  pagina  anterior,  ja  regi- 
strava  com  certo  orgulho,  em  1774,  que  prezava  sua  trajetoria  de  mobilidade, 
compartilhada  com  outras  tantas  ex-escravas,  e que  cultivava  a autonomia 
conquistada  com  o passar  dos  anos.  Pedagogicamente,  pode-se  dizer,  demon- 
strou  na  pratica  e escreveu  no  testamento  que  uma  escrava  africana  podia 
ascender  economica  e socialmente  em  uma  sociedade  escravista  e misogina, 
sem,  necessariamente,  prostituir-se  e submeter-se  irremediavelmente  aos  dese- 
jos  e ao  poder  masculinos.  Ela,  como  varias  outras,  tornou-se  proprietaria  de 
escravos  (possuia  6 cativos)  em  plena  sociedade  escravista.  Alem  disso,  para 
marcar  entre  seus  parentes  e amigos  aquilo  que  ela  chamava  de  “faculdade,”  e 
para  legar  esse  perfil  a posteridade,  fez  constar  em  seu  testamento  toda  auto- 
nomia e toda  mobilidade  experimentadas  por  ela.  Para  tanto,  afirmava  que 
havia  conquistado  tudo  isso  por  seu  “trabalho,  servi^o  e industria.” 

Em  que  medida  exemplos  como  o de  Quiteria  repercutiram  junto  a outras 
mulheres  que  buscavam,  desde  o cativeiro,  possibilidades  de  ascensao  social 
e economica?  Como  esses  casos,  que  se  contavam  em  dezenas  em  cada  vila  e 
arraial  setecentista,  impactaram  aquela  sociedade?  Em  que  medida  esses  casos 
sao,  tambem,  por^oes  das  metamorfoses  produzidas  pelo  proprio  escravismo 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


47 


americano?  Como  escravos  e forros,  mas,  tambem,  livres  incorporavam  essa 
dinamica  escravista  na  America  portiiguesa?  Como  os  africanos  escravizados 
e os  libertos  se  inseriam  em  processo  tao  complexo  e,  ao  mesmo  tempo,  tao 
menos  n'gido  que  o experimentado  por  eles  em  algumas  regioes  africanas? 

Ainda  ha  muitas  indaga^oes  e muito  que  se  estudar,  principalmente,  em 
perspectiva  comparada,  aproximando-se  realidades  escravistas  do  Brasil,  com 
outras  similares  na  Africa,  na  America  espanhola,  nos  Estados  Unidos  e em 
outras  colonias  europeias  na  America  e,  tambem,  na  Europa  e no  Oriente. 
Conhecer  melhor  a historia  desses  personagens  nao  serve,  apenas,  para  se  reaf- 
irmar  a condi9ao  de  agentes  historicos  que  eles  assumiram  no  passado,  mas  se 
trata  de  estudar  algumas  das  matrixes  de  nossas  sociedades  e de  nossos  univer- 
sos  culturais  contemporaneos. 

Um  dos  tra^os  marcantes  dessa  historia  de  muitas  faces  e,  sem  diivida,  a 
mobilidade  que,  de  certa  maneira,  liga  o passado  e o presente,  pois  foi  larga- 
mente  cultivada  nesses  universos  de  outrora  e continua  marcando  o dia-a- 
dia  atual  de  varias  dessas  sociedades.  Evoquemos,  novamente,  um  de  nossos 
protagonistas,  ja  apresentado  antes,  para  que  com  suas  palavras  e com  seu 
apre90  em  rela9ao  a mobilidade  vivenciada  possamos  encerrar  esse  texto.  Jose 
Machado  Affon9o,  em  testamento  registrado  no  Rio  de  Janeiro,  em  1770, 
demonstrava  em  uma  frase  curta  como  transitara  entre  mundos  e condi9oes 
distintas,  como  se  transformara  em  um  autentico  passeur  culturel‘^''  e como  o 
fizera  com  alguma  desenvoltura:  “[•..]  declaro  que  sou  natural  e batizado  em 
Angola  [...]  livre  e liberto  sem  obriga9ao  alguma  e por  hora  assisto  no  Taqua- 
ra9u  [arraial,  na  capitania  de  Minas  Gerais] 


Notas 

Parte  deste  texto  Integra  o capi'tulo  IV  (ainda  inedito)  de  minha  Tese  de  Doutoramento:  Por 
meu  trabalho,  servigo  e industria:  historias  de  africanos,  crioulos  e mestizos  na  Coldnia — Minas 
Gerais,  1716-1789,  apresentada  ao  Programa  de  Pos-gradua^ao  em  Historia  da  Universidade  de 
Sao  Paulo,  em  1999.  Estao  inclufdos  neste  texto  resultados  de  pesquisas  que  venho  desenvolvendo 
nos  liltimos  anos,  como  bolsista  de  produtividade  do  Conselho  Nacional  de  Desenvolvimento 
Cientifico  e Tecnologico-CNPq — a partir  do  projeto:  Do  escravismo  a civilizagao:  representagoes 
do  arcaismo  e da  modernidade  nacionais  em  autores  da  Brasiliana  / Colegao  Brasiliana:  escritos  e 
leituras  na  nagao  ( 1931—1941) — e como  bolsista  da  CAPES  de  Pos-doutoramento — 2006—2007. 
E necessario  registrar,  ainda,  que  versao  modificada  deste  artigo  foi  publicada  na  Revista  Terra 
D'Africa  (Universita  dell’Aquila,  Italia),  v.  XIV,  de  2005. 

* Um  panorama  bem  elaborado  sobre  a presenga  e sobre  as  atividades  de  negros,  crioulos  e 
mestizos  na  America  espanhola  e encontrado  em  Bernard,  Bernard  e Gruzinski,  Queija  e Stella. 


EDUARDO  FRANCA  PAIVA 


48 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Registros  iconograficos  relativamente  fieis  a essas  realidades  coloniais  e a esses  agentes  historicos 
podem  ser  vistos  em  Katzew,  Majluf  e Saiz). 

’ Ver  o esclarecedor  trabalho  de  Santos. 

Urn  recente  esforgo  coletivo  de  repensar  questoes  relacionadas  ao  trabalho  escravo  e ao 
trabalho  livre  na  epoca  moderna  foi  realizado  em  torno  de  um  acordo  estabelecido  entre  a Uni- 
versity ot  Nottingham  e a Universidade  Federal  de  Minas  Gerais,  que  envolveu  pesquisadores 
de  varias  nacionalidades  e institui^oes  de  pesquisa.  Resultou  dai  o livro  organizado  por  Libby 
e Furtado. 

Desde  muito  cedo,  o termo  foi  empregado  no  Novo  Mundo  e segundo  o Inca  Garcilaso  de 
la  Vega:  “[...]  es  nombre  que  inventaron  los  negros  y asi  lo  muestra  la  obra.  Quiere  decir  entre 
ellos  negro  nascido  en  Indias;  inventaronlo  para  diferenciar  los  que  van  de  aca,  nascidos  em 
Guinea,  de  los  que  nacen  alia,  porque  se  tienen  por  mas  honrados  y de  mas  calidad,  por  haber 
nacido  em  la  patria,  que  no  sus  hijos,  porque  nacieron  em  la  ajena,  y los  padres  se  ofenden  si  les 
llaman  criollos.  Los  espanoles,  por  la  semejanza,  han  introducido  este  nombre  en  su  lenguje  para 
nombrar  los  nacidos  alia.  De  manera  que  al  espanol  y al  guineo,  nacidos  alia,  les  llaman  criollos 
y criollas”  (cit.  em  Arrom). 

^ Ver:  Anastasia  e Paiva,  em  Berrnand. 

^ Ver,  sobre  o tema,  Paiva  {Escravidao  e universo  cultural). 

^ O discurso  do  Conde  das  Galveas  ficou  registrado  em  mais  de  um  codice  e arquivo. 
Encontrei-o  no  APM/CMOP — codice  35,  L 1 18-1 18v — ’’Registros  de  editais,  cartas,  provisoes 
e informa^oes  do  Senado  de  peti^oes  e despachos — 1735-1736.”  Sobre  os  discursos,  em  geral, 
e para  se  acessar  alguns  exemplos,  ver,  entre  outros:  Anastasia;  Mattos;  Oliveira;  Paiva  {Escravos 
e libertos)-,  Souza. 

^ Ou,  tomando  de  emprestimo  algumas  expressoes  arroladas  por  Mattos  (121-123),  mais 
comuns  para  o seculo  XIX,  mas  que  podem  bem  dimensionar  o pensamento  senhorial  mineiro 
no  seculo  anterior:  “vadios”;  “a  pobreza”;  “a  mais  vil  canalha  aspirante”;  “rale  de  todas  as  cores.” 

^ Sobre  o tema  ver,  para  Minas  Gerais,  Guimaraes,  Gomes  e os  varios  textos  sobre  o tema 
em  Reis  e Gomes. 

'‘^Termos  empregados  na  epoca.  “Condi^ao”  designava  se  a pessoa  era  livre,  liberta  ou  escrava; 
enquanto  que  “qualidade”  as  distinguia  entre  branca,  negra,  crioula,  mulata,  parda,  mestiga,  cabra, 
entre  outras  categorias  que  mesclavam  cor  de  pele  e caracten'sticas  biologico-culturais. 

' ' Ver  sobre  este  tema,  entre  outros  estudos:  Davis;  Lovejoy;  Mauny;  Medina  e Henriques 
(90-99);  Petre-Grenouilleau;  Thomas  (73-86). 

A coarta(jao  foi  um  costume  ao  qual  se  recorreu  com  freqiiencia  nas  areas  escravistas 
urbanizadas.  Era  um  acordo  diretamente  acertado  entre  proprietarios  e escravos,  que  permitia 
aos  ultimos  se  afastarem  do  dominio  cotidiano  dos  primeiros  e durante  anos  pagarem  parcelas 
semestrais  ou  anuais  de  sua  alforria  e,  nao  raramente,  das  alforrias  de  seus  filhos  tambem.  Trat- 
ava-se  de  um  sistema  de  credito  costumeiro  e,  em  grande  medida,  informal.  Ver  sobre  o assunto 
Gonsalves;  Paiva  {Escravos  e libertos-,  Escravidao  e universo  cultural)',  Rodrigues  {Sentenga  de  uma 
vidd)-,  Souza.  Para  a America  espanhola,  ver  Berrnand  e Scott. 

Comarca  era  uma  das  divisoes  administrativas  existentes  no  seculo  XVIII  brasileiro.  Em 
Minas  Gerais,  ao  final  do  seculo  XVIII,  existiam  quatro  comarcas:  a do  Rio  das  Velhas,  cuja  sede 
era  Vila  Real  de  Nossa  Senhora  da  Concei^ao  do  Sahara;  a do  Rio  das  Mortes,  cuja  sede  era  Vila  de 
Sao  Joao  Del  Rei;  a do  Ouro  Preto,  cuja  sede  era  Vila  Rica  de  Nossa  Senhora  do  Pilar  (Ouro  Preto), 
que  era,  tambem,  a sede  da  Capitania  das  Minas  Gerais,  e a comarca  do  Serro  do  Erio,  cuja  sede  era 
Vila  do  Principe  (Serro).  Em  1 8 1 5 foi  criada  a comarca  do  Paracatu,  cuja  sede  era  Vila  de  Paracatu. 

Oitavas  de  ouro  era  uma  medida  muito  usada  para  o ouro  em  p6,  que  circulava  como 
moeda.  Durante  o seculo  XVIII  o valor  da  oitava  de  ouro  variou  entre  1.200  e 1.500  reis. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


49 


Arquivo  Publico  Mineiro/Camara  Municipal  de  Sahara — codice  20,  f.  73v-75  (74v). 
Testamento  de  Miguel  Lobo  de  Souza — Sahara,  02  jul.  1751. 

APM/CMS — codice  20,  f.  73v-75  (74v).  Testamento  de  Miguel  Lobo  de  Souza — Sahara, 
02  jul.  1751. 

A moeda  em  vigor  nessa  epoca  era  o Real,  cujo  plural  era  reis. 

APM/CMS — codice  73,  f.  9v-l4.  Testamento  de  Felix  Saraiva — Arraial  das  Sete  Lagoas, 
07  abr.  1784. 

Ver  sobre  o assunto,  principalmente,  Cardoso.  Brecha  camponesa  e um  conceito  em 
desuso  atualmente,  pois,  na  verdade,  as  praticas  que  possibilitaram  a elabora^ao  dele,  isso  nos 
anos  80  do  seculo  XX,  periodo  ainda  fortemente  marcado  por  perspectiva  marxista,  revelaram- 
se,  com  o desenvolvimento  de  novas  pesquisas,  nao  serem  nem  brechas  (exce^oes),  nem,  muito 
menos,  camponesas,  pois  eram  muito  comuns,  tambem,  nas  areas  urbanas.  Afastados  de  para- 
digma  e filtros  marxistas,  libertados  do  jugo  da  “contradi^ao,”  ficamos  de  frente  a praticas  muito 
comuns  em  grande  parte  do  periodo  de  escravidao,  que,  em  nada,  anunciavam  o capitalismo, 
como  se  interpretou  em  decadas  passadas.  Essas  praticas  eram,  acima  de  tudo,  acordos  estabe- 
lecidos  entre  escravos  e senhores  (muitos  deles  ex-escravos)  e direitos  costumeiros,  respeitados 
pela  sociedade  colonial.  Em  alguns  casos,  quando  o acordo  foi  desrespeitado  pelo  senhor,  escra- 
vos chegaram  a recorrer  a Justiqia  e ha  casos  em  que  suas  demandas  foram  aceites,  em  detrimento 
dos  interesses  dos  proprietarios.  Nas  areas  rurais  os  escravos  cultivavam  terras  cedidas  pelos 
senhores,  plantavam,  colhiam,  consumiam  a produ9ao  e,  eventualmente,  comercializavam  o 
excedente.  Nas  areas  urbanas  esses  acordos  se  transformaram  em  autonomia  relativa  dos  cativos, 
que  saiam  para  as  ruas,  distante  do  dommio  direto  do  proprietario,  onde  prestavam  todo  tipo 
de  servigo,  cobrando-os  dos  que  os  contratavam.  O peculio  acumulado  servia  para  pagar  ao  pro- 
prietario o valor  previamente  acertado,  relativo  as  jornadas  de  trabalho;  o excedente  servia  para 
a manuten^ao  desse  “escravo  de  ganho”  e para  o pagamento  da  alforria,  muitas  vezes  via  sistema 
de  coarta^ao,  que  significava,  como  ja  assinalei,  o pagamento  parcelado  da  Carta  de  Liberdade. 

Museu  do  Ouro/Cartorio  de  Primeiro  Ofkio-Testamentos — codice  13,  f.  15v-18  (I6v). 
Testamento  de  Antonia  Nunes  dos  Anjos — Sahara,  06  ago.  1740. 

Ver  sobre  este  assunto:  Priore,  principalmente  o Capitulo  1 da  segunda  parte.  Ver,  tam- 
bem, Paiva  {Escravos  e libertos  1 1 1—157;  Escravidao  e universo  cukurat)\  Priore. 

Museu  Regional  de  Sao  Joao  del  Rei/Inventarios — caixa  26.  Inventario  post-mortem  de 
Maria  de  Freitas  Barracha — Sao  Joao  Del  Rei,  07  out.  1770. 

Um  deles  foi  o pardo  forro  Pedro  da  Costa,  que  exigia  do  pai  e ex-senhor  o reconhecimento 
de  paternidade  para  que  pudesse  receber  os  legados  materiais  do  filho  bastardo — ^APM/CMS — 
codice  24,  f.  122v-124v.  Testamento  de  Pedro  da  Costa — Rio  de  Janeiro,  19  nov.  1744.  Encontrei 
outros  19  casos  semelhantes  na  documenta^ao  pesquisada.  Por  exemplo,  Catharina  de  Payva,  uma 
forra  natural  da  Guine,  instituiu  o antigo  senhor,  o Reverendo  Padre  Matheus  de  Payva,  seu  her- 
deiro  universal — MO/CPO-TEST — codice  1,  f.  133-136v.  Testamento  de  Catharina  de  Payva — 
Sahara,  09  jul.  1721.  Ja  o forro  Ignacio,  natural  da  Costa  da  Mina,  mesmo  tendo  comprado  sua 
alforria  e a de  sua  mulher,  acabou  deixando  um  moleque  de  Na^ao  Benguela  e mais  dez  oitavas 
de  ouro  para  o antigo  proprietario,  o capitao  Manoel  de  Araujo — MO/CPO-TEST — codice  11, 
f 133v.  Testamento  de  Ignacio  de  Araujo  dos  Santos — Santo  Antonio  do  Rio  das  Velhas  Acima, 
28  dez.  1743.  Estes  legados  testamentais  foram  raramente  acompanhados  de  expressoes  habitu- 
almente  usadas  nas  situa^oes  contrarias,  isto  e,  quando  os  senhores  deixavam  heran^a  para  algum 
escravo.  Refiro-me  a bordoes  do  tipo  “por  esmola”  e “pelo  amor  de  Deus.”  Uma  exce9ao  a regra  e 
o caso  da  preta  forra  Gracia,  mais  a frente  reproduzido — MR/INV — caixa  29 1 . Inventario  post- 
mortem de  Gracia  Dias  de  Oliveira — Sao  Joao  Del  Rei,  01  jan.  1762. 

MR/INV — caixa  26.  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Maria  de  Freitas  Barracha — Sao  Joao  Del 
Rei,  07  out.  1770. 


EDUARDO  FRANQA  PAIVA 


50 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


MO/CPO-TEST — codice  50,  t.  1 1 1-1 16v  (1 1 Iv).  Testamento  de  Quiteria  Alves  da  Fon- 
ceca — Santa  Barbara,  04  mai.  1774. 

MO/CPO-TEST — codice  50,  f.  54-59  (54v).  Testamento  de  Manoel  da  Fonceca  Pereira — 
Sao  Gon^alo  do  Rio  Abaixo  de  Santa  Barbara,  25  ago.  1777.  Ressalvas  identicas  foram  feitas  tam- 
bem  por  testamenteiros  livres,  sobremdo  pelos  homens.  Ver,  ainda,  Oliveira  (47-51)  e a transcri^ao 
da  carta-codicilo  da  crioula  forra  Rosa  Maria  de  Paiva  Aleluia  Lima  incorporada  a esse  texto. 

Uma  certa  soberba  dos  africanos  vindos  da  Costa  da  Mina  foi  imagem  comum  no  Brasil 
escravista.  Em  meados  do  seculo  XIX,  o viajante  norte-americano  Thomas  Ewbank  escrevia, 
apos  observances  realizadas  por  ele  na  cidade  do  Rio  de  Janeiro:  “Os  monambicanos  contam-se 
entre  os  melhores  escravos.  Tao  inteligentes  e mais  padficos  que  os  minas  (da  Costa  do  Ouro), 
fieis  e de  confianna,  alcannam  um  pre^o  alto”  (195).  Ver  tambem  Reis  sobre  os  escravos  e for- 
ros  islamicos,  vindos  da  regiao  da  Mina  para  a Bahia,  que  participaram  da  rebeliao  dos  males 
de  1835.  Ver,  ainda:  Paiva,  (“Bateias,  carumbes,  tabuleiros”;  “Milices  noires  et  cultures  afro- 
bresiliennes”);  Raymundo  Rodrigues. 

O caminho  que  ligava  o porta  de  Salvador  a area  de  mineranao  foi  muito  usado  pelos 
negociantes  de  escravos  durante  todo  o seculos  XVIII.  Dois  pontos  importantes  desse  caminho 
eram  a Vila  de  Rio  de  Contas  e o povoado  de  Caetite,  que  continuam  merecendo  maior  aten^ao 
da  historiografia.  Ver  Pires. 

MO/CPO-TEST — codice  48,  f.  64-69  (64v).  Testamento  de  Joseffa  Pires — ^Arraial  de 
Santa  Barbara,  12  mar.  1771. 

Escravo  de  ganho  foi  categoria  muito  comum  na  historia  da  escravidao  no  Brasil.  A 
atividade  “de  ganho”  ou  “ao  ganho”  era  desempenhada  tanto  por  homens,  quanto  por  mul- 
heres,  principalmente  nas  areas  mais  urbanizadas  da  America  portuguesa,  tornando-se  ainda 
mais  freqiiente  a partir  do  seculo  XVIII.  Geralmente,  esses  escravos  trabalhavam  nas  ruas,  longe 
dos  proprietaries,  e ao  final  do  dia  ou  da  semana  (jornada),  conforme  acordo  estabelecido,  eles 
entregavam  ao  senhor  uma  quantia  em  dinheiro  ou  em  ouro  em  p6  (oitavas  de  ouro)  previa- 
mente  combinada.  Se  o escravo  de  ganho  conseguisse,  durante  a jornada,  ganhar  mais  que  o 
estipulado  com  o respective  proprietario  ele  poderia  guardar  consigo  esse  excedente,  que  seria 
empregado,  quase  sempre,  na  alimentanao,  roupas,  cuidados  com  saude  e,  evidentemente,  na 
compra  da  alforria.  Ver  sobre  o tema,  entre  outros:  Algranti;  Figueiredo;  Mattoso;  Reis,  Liana 
Maria;  Oliveira;  Paiva  {Escravos  e libertos\  Escravidao  e universo  cultural). 

Em  certas  regioes  da  Africa  negra  de  onde  sai'ram  escravos  para  o Brasil,  a Costa  da  Mina,  por 
exemplo,  o pequeno  comercio  de  alimentos  foi,  tradicionalmente,  explorado  pelas  mulheres,  assim 
como  o fizeram,  tambem,  no  Caribe  escravista.  Ver  Bush  (48^9)  e Blier  (126-127).  Esta  ultima 
autora  fez  reproduzir  no  seu  livro  desenhos  que  retratam  essas  mulheres  nas  ruas  de  cidades  africanas, 
como  os  do  viajante  ingles  T.  E.  Bowdich,  publicados  originalmente  em  1 817  no  livro  A Mission  from 
Cape  Coast  Castle  toAshantee.  Ver,  tambem,  Pantoja  (45-67)  e Paiva  {Escravos  e libertos). 

A moeda  era  o Real;  o plural,  reis.  LGse,  portanto,  tres  mil  e seiscentos  reis. 

MR/INV — caixa  299,  f 5-9  (6v).  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Antonio  da  Silva  Reis — Sao 
Joao  Del  Rei,  19  fev.  1762. 

MR/INV — caixa  299,  f 5-9  (6v).  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Antonio  da  Silva  Reis — Sao 
Joao  Del  Rei,  19  fev.  1762. 

MO/CPO-TEST — codice  50,  f 39v-45  (40v).  Testamento  de  Quiteria  Gomes  Ferreira — 
Santa  Luzia,  08  jan.  1779. 

Sobre  as  negras  vendeiras  e sobre  a legisla(;ao  repressora  de  suas  atividades  ver,  entre  outros 
trabalhos:  Andrade  (141—143);  Dias;  Figueiredo;  Karasch;  Mattoso;  Oliveira  (1 1-21);  Paiva  {Escravos 
e libertos  140-143;  Escravidao  e universo  cultural)',  Ramos  (226-41);  Liana  Maria  Reis;  Silva. 

MR/INV — caixa  291.  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Gracia  Dias  de  Oliveira — Sao  Joao  Del 
Rei,  01  jan.  1762. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


51 


MR7INV — caixa  30.  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Ventura  de  Barros — Sao  Joao  Del  Rei, 
21  abr.  1752. 

Sobre  escravos,  libertos  e oficios  mecanicos  no  pen'odo  colonial,  ver  Flexor  {Oficiais 
mecdnicos\  “Os  oficiais  mecanicos  (artesaos)  de  Salvador  e Sao  Paulo”);  Martins;  Meneses;  Trin- 
dade;  Vasconcellos. 

APM/CMS — codice  24,  f.  102-104  (103).  Testamento  de  Pedro  de  Almeida  Faria — 
Sahara,  18  jan.  1764. 

MR/INV — caixa  65.  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Bernardo  Correa — Sao  Joao  Del  Rei, 
30  abr.  1736. 

MO/CPO-TEST — codice  51,  f.  159v-167  (160  e 165).  Testamento  de  Manoel  da 
Costa — Paracatu,  03  jun.  1776. 

MO/CPO-TEST — codice  52,  f.  58-62v  (58).  Testamento  de  Jose  Machado  Affon^o — 
Rio  de  Janeiro,  27  out.  1770. 

MO/CPO-TEST — codice  52,  f.  58-62v  (59v).  Testamento  de  Jose  Machado  Affon^o — 
Rio  de  Janeiro,  27  out.  1770. 

MR/INV — caixa  354,  f.  6-9v  (8v).  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Maria  Cardoza  da  Silva — 
Sao  Joao  Del  Rei,  18  nov.  1778. 

Sobre  o tema,  embora  para  o seculo  XIX,  ver  Libby  ( Trabalho  escravo-,  Transformagdo  e 
trabalho). 

MR/INV — caixa  30.  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Marianna  do  Rego  Barros — Sao  Jose  Del 
Rei,  10  set.  1760. 

MR/INV — caixa  30.  Inventario  post-mortem  de  Ventura  de  Barros — Sao  Joao  Del  Rei, 
21  abr.  1752. 

Sobre  esse  conceito  ver:  Gruzinski;  Paiva  (“Africans  in  Portuguese  America”). 

Ver  Thompson  (49). 

Sobre  esse  conceito  ver:  Gruzinski  {La pensee  metisse)\  Paiva  (“Bateias,  carumbes,  tabuleiros”); 
Tachot  e Gruzinski  {Passeurs  culturels). 

MO/CPO-TEST — codice  52,  f.  58-62v  (58v).  Testamento  de  Jose  Machado  Affon^o — 
Rio  de  Janeiro,  27  out.  1770. 


Obras  Citadas 

Algranti,  Leila  Mezan.  O feitor  auzente:  estudos  sobre  a escravidao  urbana  no  Rio  de 
Janeiro — 1808—1822.  Petropolis:  Vozes,  1988.  Impresso. 

Anastasia,  Carla  Maria  Junho.  A geograjia  do  crime — violencia  nas  Minas  setecentistas.  Belo  hori- 
zonte:  EdUFMG,  2005.  Impresso. 

Andrade,  Maria  Jose  de  Souza.  A mao-de-obra  escrava  em  Salvador,  1811-1860.  Sao  Paulo: 
Corrupio,  1988.  Impresso. 

Arrom,  Jose  Juan.  “Criollo:  definicion  y matices  de  un  concepto.”  Hispania  34.2  (Maio  1951): 
172-76.  Impresso. 

Bernard,  Carmen.  Negros  esclavosy  libres  em  las  ciudades  hispanoamericanas.  Madrid:  Fundacion 
Historica  Tavera,  2001.  Impresso. 

Bernard,  Carmen  e Serge  Gruzinski.  Historia  del  Nuevo  Mundo.  Los  mestizajes,  1550-1640. 
Mexico:  Fondo  de  Cultura  Economica,  1999.  Impresso. 

Blier,  Suzanne  Preston.  L art  royal  ajrican.  Paris:  Flammarion,  1998.  Impresso. 


EDUARDO  FRANCA  PAIVA 


52 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Bowdich,  T.  E.  A Mission  from  Cape  Coast  Castle  to  Ashantee.  Londres:  John  Murray,  1817. 
Impresso. 

Bush,  Barbara.  Slave  Women  in  Caribbean  Society — 1650-1838.  Kingston:  Heinemann 
Publishers,  1990.  Impresso. 

Cardoso,  Giro  Flamarion  S.  Escravo  ou  campones?  O protocampesinato  negro  na  America.  Sao 
Paulo:  Brasiliense,  1987.  Impresso. 

Dias,  Maria  Odila  L.  S.  Quotidiano  e poder  em  Sao  Paulo  no  seculo  XIX.  Sao  Paulo:  Brasiliense, 
1984.  Impresso. 

Ewbank,  Thomas.  Vida  no  Brasil  ou  didrio  de  uma  visita  a terra  do  cacaueiro  e da  palmeira — com 
um  apendice  contendo  ilustragdes  das  artes  sul-americanas  antigas.  Belo  Horizonte/Sao  Paulo: 
Itatiaia/EdUSP,  1976.  Impresso. 

Figueiredo,  Luciano.  O avesso  da  memoria:  cotidiano  e trabalho  da  mulher  em  Minas  Gerais  no 
seculo  XVIII.  Rio  de  Janeiro/Brasi'lia:  Jose  Olympio/EdUnB,  1993.  Impresso. 

Flexor,  Maria  Helena  Ochi.  Oficiais  mecdnicos  na  cidade  de  Salvador.  Salvador:  Prefeitura 
Municipal  de  Salvador,  1974.  Impresso. 

. “Os  oficiais  mecanicos  (arresaos)  de  Salvador  e Sao  Paulo  no  pen'odo  colonial.”  Revista 

Barroco  17  (1996).  139-154.  Impresso. 

Gomes,  Flavio  dos  Santos.  A hidra  e os pdntanos:  macambos,  quilombos  e comunidades  de  fugitivos 
no  Brasil  (seculos  XVII-XIX).  Sao  Paulo:  UNESP,  2005.  Impresso. 

Gonsalves,  Jener  Cristiano.  Justiga  e direitos  costumeiros:  apelos  Judicials  de  escravos,  forros  e livres 
em  Minas  Gerais  (1716-1815).  Diss.  UFMG,  2006.  Impresso. 

Gruzinski,  Serge.  la  pensee  metisse.  Paris:  Fayard,  1999.  Impresso. 

. Les  quatre  parties  du  monde:  histoire  d’une  mondialisation.  Paris:  Editions  de  la 

Martiniere,  2004.  Impresso. 

Guimaraes,  Carlos  Magno.  Uma  negagdo  da  escraviddo:  quilombos  em  Minas  Gerais  no  seculo 
XVIII.  Sao  Paulo:  leone,  1988.  Impresso. 

Karasch,  Mary.  Slave  Life  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  1808-1850.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press, 
1987.  Impresso. 

Katzew,  Ilona.  Casta  Painting,  Images  of  Race  in  Eighteenth-Century  Mexico.  New  Haven:  Yale, 
2004.  Impresso. 

Libby,  Douglas  Cole.  Trabalho  escravo  e capital  estrangeiro  no  Brasil:  o caso  de  Morro  Velho.  Belo 
Horizonte:  Itatiaia,  1984.  Impresso. 

. Transformagdo  e trabalho  em  uma  economia  escravista:  Minas  Gerais  no  seculo  XIX.  Sao 

Paulo:  Brasiliense,  1988.  Impresso. 

Majluf,  Natalia,  ed.  Los  cuadros  de  mestizaje  el  Virrey  Amat:  la  representacion  etnogrdfica  em  el 
Peru  cobnial.  Lima:  Museo  de  Arte  de  Lima,  1999.  Impresso. 

Martins,  Judith.  “Dicionario  de  artistas  e artifices  dos  seculos  XVIII  e XIX  em  Minas  Gerais.” 
Revista  do  Patrimonio  Historico  e Artistic o Nacional 27 .1  (1974).  Impresso. 

Mattos,  Umar  RohlofF.  O tempo  saquarema:  a formagdo  do  Estado  imperial  Sao  Paulo:  Hucitec, 
1990.  Impresso. 

Mattoso,  Katia  M.  de  Queiros.  Bahia:  a cidade  de  Salvador  e seu  mercado  no  seculo  XIX.  Sao 
Paulo/Salvador:  Hucitec/Secretaria  Municipal  de  Eduaca9ao  e Cultura,  1978.  Impresso. 

. Testamentos  de  escravos  libertos  na  Bahia  no  seculo  XIX:  uma  fonte  para  o estudo  de  men- 

talidades.  Salvador:  Centro  de  Estudos  Baianos/UFBa,  1979.  Impresso. 

Meneses,  Jose  Newton  Coelho  de.  Artes  fabris  e servigos  banais:  oficiais  mecdnicos  e as  Camaras  no 
final  do  Antigo  Regime.  1750—1808.  Diss.  PPGH-UFF,  2003.  Impresso. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


53 


Oliveira,  Maria  Ines  Cortes  de.  O liberto:  seu  mundo  e os  outros.  Salvador,  1790/1890.  Sao  Paulo: 
Corrupio/CNPq,  1988.  Impresso. 

Paiva,  Eduardo  Franca.  Escravos  e libertos  nas  Minas  Gerais  do  seculo  XVllI:  estrategias  de  resisten- 
cia  atraves  dos  testamentos.  Sao  Paulo:  Annablume,  1995.  Impresso. 

. For  men  trabalho,  serv^o  e industrial  historias  de  africanos,  crioulos  e mestizos  na 

Colonia — Minas  Gerais,  1716—1789,  Diss.  USP  1999.  Impresso. 

. Escravidao  e universo  cultural  na  Colonia:  Minas  Gerais,  1716—1789.  Belo  Horizonte: 

EdUFMG,  2002.  Impresso. 

. “Bateias,  carumbes,  tabuleiros:  minera(jao  africana  e mesti^agem  no  Novo  Mundo.” 

O trabalho  mestdo:  maneiras  de  pensar  e formas  de  viver,  skulos  XVI  a XIX.  Org.  E.  E Paiva 
e Anastasia,  C.  M.  J.  Sao  Paulo/Belo  Horizonte:  Annablume/PPGH-UFMG,  2002.  187- 
207.  Impresso. 

. “Revendications  de  droits  coutumiers  et  actions  en  justice  des  esclaves  dans  le  Minas  Gerais 

du  XVIIIe  siecle.“  Cahiers  du  Bresil  Contemporain.  EHESS  53/54  (2003):  1 1-29.  Impresso. 

. “Africans  in  Portuguese  America.  Crossroads  between  Worlds  and  Practices  of  Anti- 
globalisation.” Image  & Narrative  1 1 (2005).  Web. 

. “Milices  noires  et  cultures  afro-bresiliennes:  Minas  Gerais,  Bresil,  XVIIIe  siecle.” 

DEsclaves  a soldats.  Miliciens  et  soldats  d’origine  servile  XJIIe-XXle  siecles.  Coord.  Carmen 
Bernard  e Alessandro  Stella.  Paris  : L’Harmattan,  2006.  163-174.  Impresso. 

Pantoja,  Selma.  “A  dimensao  atlantica  das  quitandeiras.”  Didlogos  ocednicos:  Minas  Gerais  e as 
novas  abordagens  para  uma  historia  do  imperio  ultramarino  portugues.  Org.  Junia  Ferreira 
Furtado.  Belo  Horizonte:  UFMG,  2001.  Impresso. 

Pires,  Maria  de  Fatima  Novaes.  O crime  na  cor:  escravos  e forros  no  alto  sertao  da  Bahia  (1830- 
1888).  Sao  Paulo:  Annablume,  2003.  Impresso. 

Priore,  Mary  Del.  Ao  sul  do  corpo:  condigao  feminina,  maternidades  e mentalidades  no  Brasil 
Colonia.  Rio  de  Janeiro/Brasflia:  Jose  Olympio/Edunb,  1993.  Impresso. 

Queija,  Berta  Ares  e Alessandro  Stella,  coord.  Negros,  mulatos,  zambaigos:  derroteros  africanos  em 
los  mundos  ibericos.  Sevilla:  Escuela  de  Estiidios  Hispano-Americanos/Consejo  Superior  de 
Investigaciones  Ciennficas,  2000.  Impresso. 

Ramos,  Donald.  A Social  History  of  Ouro  Preto.  Stresses  of  Dynamic  Urbanization  in  Colonial 
Brazil  1695-1726.  Diss.  University  of  Florida,  1972.  Impresso. 

Reis,  Joao  Jose.  Rebeliao  escrava  no  Brasil:  a historia  do  levante  dos  males  (1835).  Sao  Paulo: 
Brasilense,  1986.  Impresso. 

Reis,  Joao  Jose  e Flavio  dos  Santos  Gomes,  org.  Liberdade  por  um  fio:  historia  dos  quilombos  no 
Brasil.  Sao  Paulo:  Companhia  das  Letras,  1996.  Impresso. 

Reis,  Liana  Maria.  “Mulheres  de  ouro:  as  negras  de  tabuleiro  nas  Minas  Gerais  do  seculo 
XVIII.”  Revista  do  Departamento  de  Historia  UEMG  8 (1989):  72-85.  Impresso. 

Rodrigues,  Raymundo  Nina.  Os  africanos  no  Brasil.  6®  ed.  Sao  Paulo/Brasilia:  Companhia 
Editora  Nacional/EdUnB,  1982.  Impresso. 

Rodrigues,  Tiago  de  Godoy.  Sentenga  de  uma  vida:  escravos  nos  tribunals  de  Mariana  (1830— 
1840).  Diss.  UFMG,  2004.  Impresso. 

Saiz,  Marfa  Concepcion  Garcia.  Las  castas  mexicanas:  un  genero  pictorico  americano.  Mexico: 
Olivetti,  1989.  Impresso. 

Santos,  Raphael  Freitas.  Devo  que pagarei’:  sociedade,  mercado  e prdticas  creditkias  na  comarca  do 
Rio  das  Velhas,  1713-1773.  Diss.  UFMG,  2005.  Impresso. 

Scott,  Rebecca  J.  Emancipagdo  escrava  em  Cuba:  a transigdo  para  o trabalho  livre,  1860— 1899.  Rio 
de  Janeiro/Gampinas:  Paz  e Terra/Ed. Unicamp,  1991.  Impresso. 


EDUARDO  FRANCA  PAIVA 


54 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Silva,  Marilene  Rosa  Nogueira  da.  Negro  na  run:  a nova  face  da  escravidao.  Sao  Paulo:  Hucitec, 
1988.  Impresso. 

Souza,  Laura  de  Mello  e.  “As  Camaras,  a exposi^ao  de  crian^as  e a discrimina^ao  racial.”  Normas 
e confUtos:  aspectos  da  historia  de  Minas  no  seculo  XVIII.  Belo  Horizonte:  EdUFMG,  1999. 
63-79.  Impresso. 

Tachot,  Louise  Benat  e Serge  Gruzinski,  dir.  Passeurs  culturels:  mecanismes  de  mkissage.  Paris: 
Presses  universitaires  de  Marne-la-Vallee/Editions  de  la  Maison  des  sciences  de  I’homme, 
2001.  Impresso. 

Thompson,  E.  P.  A miseria  da  teoria  on  um  planetaria  de  erros:  uma  critica  ao  pensamento  de 
Althusser.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Zahar  Editores,  1981.  Impresso. 

Trindade,  Conego  Raimundo.  “Ourives  de  Minas  Gerais  nos  seculos  XVIII  e XIX.”  Revista  do 
Patrimdnio  Histdrico  e Artlstico  Nacional  \2  (1955):  109-149.  Impresso. 

Vasconcellos,  Salomao  de.  “Oficios  mecanicos  em  Vila  Rica  durante  o seculo  XVIII.”  Revista  do 
Patrimdnio  Histdrico  e Artlstico  Nacional  A (1940).  Impresso. 


Arquivos 

APM/CMOP:  Arquivo  Publico  Mineiro/  Camara  Municipal  de  Ouro  Preto 
APM/CMS  : Arquivo  Publico  Mineiro/Camara  Municipal  de  Sahara 
MO/CPO-TEST:  Museu  do  Ouro/Cartorio  de  Primeiro  Offcio-Testamentos 
MR/INV:  Museu  Regional  de  Sao  Joao  del  Rei/Inventarios 


Eduardo  Franca  Paiva  is  a professor  in  the  History  Department  of  the  Federal  University 
ot  Minas  Gerais  (Brazil)  and  researcher  of  CNPq  (National  Council  of  Scientific  and 
Technological  Development).  He  is  currently  working  on  the  topic  of  Cultural  History 
of  Slavery  and  Metissage.  He  is  the  author  of  Escravidao  e universo  cultural  na  Coldnia; 
Minas  Gerais  (17l6-1789)\  “Revendications  de  droits  coutumiers  et  actions  en  justice  des 
esclaves  dans  les  Minas  Gerais  du  XVIIIe  siecle”  {Cahiers  du  Bresil  Contemporain  53-54), 
and  “Milices  noires  et  cultures  afro-bresiliennes:  Minas  Gerais,  Bresil,  XVIIIe  siecle”  in 
D’esclaves  a soldats.  Miliciens  et  soldats  d'origine  servile  aux  Xllle-XXIe  siecles. 


Remittances,  Welfare  Solidarity,  and  Monetarization: 

The  Interaction  between  Personal  and  Economic  Relations 
in  Cape  Verde  during  the  Colonial  Period 


Joao  Estevao 


Abstract.  This  article  proposes  a reading  of  the  colonial  monetary 
phenomenon  in  Cape  Verde  through  the  interaction  of  personal  relations 
and  formal  economic  relations.  It  begins  by  analyzing  the  genesis  of 
colonial  money  and  its  affirmation  as  an  autonomous  institutional 
phenomenon,  as  well  as  the  impacts  of  emigration  on  the  archipelago’s 
economy,  in  order  to  consider  the  effects  of  remittances  as  an  instrument 
of  welfare  solidarity,  monetarization,  and  the  stabilization  of  Cape 
Verdean  money.  The  combination  of  these  effects  generated  a complex 
whole  of  personal  and  economic  relations,  whose  interaction  supported 
the  expansion  of  money  and  its  social  acknowledgment  as  a universal 
measure  of  value.  There  was,  therefore,  a degree  of  complementarity 
between  personal  relations  and  formal  economic  relations,  which  was 
synthesized  through  Cape  Verdean  money. 


Introduction 

The  phenomenon  of  colonial  money  was  created  externally  and  corresponded 
to  a process  involving  currency  unification  and  the  monetary  integration  of  the 
colonies  by  the  metropolis.  In  the  Portuguese  African  colonies,  monetary  cir- 
culation was  unified  throughout  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  and 
the  supply  of  money  was  entrusted  to  banking  institutions,  thus  establishing 
a close  relationship  between  the  currency  of  the  colonies  and  the  currency  of 
the  metropolis.  The  colonial  monetary  system,  developed  from  the  start  of  the 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  55—73. 

© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


56 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


twentieth  centtiry,  hinctioned  in  a relatively  stable  manner,  and  its  evolution  led 
to  the  creation  ot  particular  currencies  in  each  colony,  with  their  own  reserves, 
their  own  means  of  issuing  money,  and  their  own  circulation  space,  but  where 
each  currency  was  merely  a simple  manifestation  of  the  metropolitan  currency. 

Researches  on  currency  in  Portuguese  colonies  have  always  been  almost 
exclusively  based  on  the  problem  of  adapting  the  monetary  and  banking  sys- 
tem to  the  needs  of  colonization,  with  the  debate  being  centered  on  a dis- 
CLission  concerning  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  choice  offered 
between  a single  currency  and  a particular  currency  for  each  colony.  Only 
more  recently  have  other  aspects  of  the  colonial  monetary  phenomenon 
begun  to  be  analyzed. 

Torres  analyzed  the  currency  in  Angola  as  revealing  “social  gaps  and  the 
distribution  of  economic  and  political  power  both  within  Angola,  as  well  as 
its  relationship  with  the  metropolis”  (257).  In  “Moeda  e monetariza^ao”  and 
Moeda  e sistema  monetdrio,  Estevao  studied  the  colonial  monetary  system  in 
the  Portuguese  colonization  of  Africa  (1852  to  1974)  and  concluded  that  the 
colonial  currency,  although  being  just  a “representation”  of  the  metropolitan 
currency,  achieved  the  status  of  a “perfectly  identifiable  institutional  phenom- 
enon and  a socially  recognized  measurement  instrument  of  value  and  circula- 
tion” (“Moeda  e monetariza^ao”  226). 

The  approach  carried  out  by  Estevao  in  the  two  above-mentioned  texts,  in 
particular  the  analysis  of  the  monetarization  process  in  Cape  Verde,  brought 
up  some  important  questions  concerning  the  role  of  emigration  and  remit- 
tances as  part  of  this  process.  One  aspect  underlying  this  analysis  was  the  role 
that  remittances  played  in  the  construction  of  relationships,  both  relation- 
ships between  the  emigrants  and  their  communities  of  origin  as  well  as  the 
relationships  within  the  communities.  But  given  that  remittance  is  a mon- 
etary flow,  firstly  in  the  form  of  foreign  exchange  and  then  converted  into 
local  currency,  it  involves  a more  complex  framework  of  relations  in  which 
it  is  necessary  to  understand  the  way  the  personal  relationships  interact  with 
the  formal  economic  relations  established  both  between  emigrants  and  their 
community  and  within  their  own  community. 

To  understand  this  interaction,  this  article  traces  a path  leading  from  the 
nature  of  the  colonial  monetary  system  to  the  role  that  emigration  and  remit- 
tances had  in  the  construction  of  those  relationships  and  in  the  stability  of  the 
colonial  money.  Thus,  the  first  section  provides  a synthesis  of  the  construction 
process  of  the  monetary  system  in  the  Portuguese  African  colonies,  showing 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  57 

that  the  system  not  only  enabled  its  use  as  an  instrument  of  sovereignty  and 
economic  integration  but  also  led  to  the  emergence  of  colonial  money  as 
a formally  autonomous  institutional  phenomenon  and  a socially  recognized 
measurement  of  value.  The  second  section  briefly  considers  the  effects  that 
Cape  Verdean  emigration  has  had  on  the  structure  of  landholding,  on  the 
reconfiguration  of  personal  and  economic  relations,  and  on  the  expansion  of 
the  monetary  and  mercantile  space  within  the  archipelago,  effects  that  have 
led  to  a greater  development  of  monetary  structures  and  a deepening  of  mon- 
etary relationships  between  individuals.  The  third  section  analyzes  the  inter- 
action that  has  developed  in  Cape  Verde  between  the  dimension  of  economic 
relations  and  the  dimension  of  personal  relations,  based  on  a three-level 
approach  to  analyzing  remittances  from  emigrants:  as  an  instrument  of  wel- 
fare solidarity  between  the  emigrants  and  their  family  members;  as  an  instru- 
ment involving  the  mercantilization  and  monetarization  of  society;  and  as  an 
instrument  to  stabilize  the  Cape  Verdean  currency.  The  last  section  presents 
some  concluding  remarks  concerning  the  complementary  nature  of  formal 
economic  relations  and  personal  relations  in  the  monetarization  process  of 
the  Cape  Verdean  economy. 

Money  and  the  colonial  monetary  system^ 

Until  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  monetary  circulation  in  the  Portu- 
guese colonies  had  never  shown  the  same  unitary  nature  nor  the  institutional 
dimension  that  it  would  come  to  possess  during  the  twentieth  century,  due 
mainly  to  the  permanent  shortage  of  metal  coins  and  the  absence  of  a mone- 
tary policy  specified  by  the  colonial  power.^  But  with  the  colonial  system  hav- 
ing been  implanted  from  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  onward, 
the  situation  changed  completely.  The  currency  was  gradually  unified  and 
its  supply  entrusted  to  banking  institutions  created  for  this  purpose,  thus 
establishing  a close  relationship  between  the  currency  of  the  colony  and  the 
currency  of  the  metropolis. 

With  the  establishment  of  the  new  colonial  system,  it  became  necessary 
to  guarantee  the  homogeneity  and  regularity  of  monetary  circulation,  as  well 
as  its  immediate  exchangeability  into  the  metropolitan  currency  at  a fixed 
rate.  The  currency  thus  gained  an  institutional  dimension,  with  a status  of 
its  own,  and  became  an  important  instrument  of  economic  integration  and 
commercial  protection.  The  evolution  of  the  colonial  monetary  and  banking 
system  accompanied  the  deepening  of  relations  between  the  metropolis  and 


JOAO  ESTEVAO 


58 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


the  colonies,  reflecting  not  only  the  expansion  of  the  monetary  relationship, 
but  also  the  need  for  a system  of  credits  and  capital  mobility  within  the  impe- 
rial economic  space.  Besides  this,  the  system  was  shown  to  possess  great  stabil- 
ity down  through  the  years  (Schuler  5). 

The  first  attempts  at  harmonizing  monetary  circulation  within  the  Por- 
tuguese African  colonies  date  from  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century 
and  involved  a vast  set  of  colonial  policy  measures  that  sought  to  globally 
ensure  and  protect  the  actual  occupation  of  possessions  and  to  construct  a 
colonial  commercial  infrastructure — measures  establishing  a customs  policy 
(commercial  protection),  establishing  a public  and  financial  administration, 
and  steps  towards  monetary  unification.  An  important  instrument  for  the 
unification  of  monetary  circulation  was  the  creation  of  the  Banco  Nacional 
Ultramarino  (BNU),  in  1864,  seeking  to  combine  its  condition  of  being  a 
commercial  bank  in  the  metropolis  with  its  exclusive  role  concerning  banking 
activities  within  the  colonies.  It  was  patterned  on  the  French  model  of  colo- 
nial banks,  with  the  difference  that  it  was  a private  bank,  with  its  head  office 
and  board  in  Lisbon,  and  it  was  given  a set  of  privileges  extending  through 
all  the  colonies  with  the  exception  of  Macao. ^ The  BNU  was  introduced  and 
argued  for  as  being  an  instrument  to  bring  together  capital  for  the  colonies, 
with  the  ability  to  resolve  serious  problems  involving  credit  and  to  dynamize 
the  development  of  the  colonies.  However,  it  was  also  seen  as  an  important 
instrument  for  the  unification  of  the  colonial  currency,  above  all  through  the 
exclusive  right  that  it  had  been  granted  to  issue  fiduciary  money. 

Despite  all  the  steps  taken,  the  monetary  situation  experienced  in  the  colo- 
nies had  practically  not  undergone  any  change  by  the  end  of  the  century.  The 
failure  of  these  measures,  which  corresponded  to  a slow  progression  of  the  colo- 
nial monetary  area,  was  a symptom  of  the  difficulties  of  Portuguese  commercial 
advances,  the  fragility  of  the  Portuguese  commercial  system  itself,  and  the  dif- 
ficulties of  military  penetrations  and  effective  occupation  of  the  territories. 

From  the  1 890s  onward,  there  was  a significant  change  in  currency  inter- 
vention mechanisms.  There  was  in  fact  an  attempt  to  increase  the  circulation 
of  paper  money  issued  by  the  BNU,  to  increase  the  circulation  of  Portuguese 
silver  currency,  and  to  completely  substitute  the  foreign  metal  currency  that 
was  in  circulation  in  the  colonies.  The  main  objective  was  to  make  silver  cur- 
rency the  basis  of  the  monetary  system  of  the  colonies,  as  would  come  to  be 
approved  in  1901.  The  monetary  system  was  thus  established,  based  on  the 
Law  of  27  April  and  the  contract  signed  between  the  Portuguese  State  and 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  59 

the  BNU,  which  contained  the  following  fundamental  features:  circulation  of 
the  same  silver  currency  as  legal  tender  in  the  metropolis  and  in  the  colonies; 
circulation  of  banknotes  exchangeable  into  silver  currency  and  as  legal  tender 
restricted  to  the  colonies  in  which  they  were  issued;  exchange  of  banknotes 
at  the  headquarters  in  Lisbon,  with  a transaction  fee  based  on  the  level  of  the 
freight  and  insurance  costs."*  This  is  similar  to  that  of  the  international  gold 
standard,  adapted  to  the  Portuguese  empire,  with  the  free  circulation  of  the 
same  silver  coinage  and  with  the  silver  convertible  to  the  banknotes  issued  by 
each  of  the  colonies.  I named  it  the  silver  standard  colonial  monetary  system 
(“Moeda  e monetariza^ao”;  Moeda  e sistema  monetdrio  48-52). 

The  system  functioned  between  1901  and  1914,  during  which  time  the 
BNU  would  always  guarantee  the  exchange  of  banknotes.  This  situation  was 
possible  because  the  volume  of  colonial  commerce  was  relatively  modest, 
because,  furthermore,  the  importance  of  the  BNU  as  a commercial  bank  in  the 
metropolis  enabled  it  to  guarantee  the  convertibility  of  the  paper  money  which 
it  kept  in  the  colonies  in  circulation,  and  because,  whenever  necessary,  the  BNU 
would  transfer  reserves  from  some  colonies  to  others,  in  order  to  cover  the  exist- 
ing deficits.  With  the  disappearance  of  the  silver  currency  in  1914,  however,  the 
system  entered  into  a period  of  decadence  that  lasted  until  1929. 

In  1929,  a new  contract  was  signed  between  the  Portuguese  State  and 
Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino,  with  some  important  consequences  for  the 
colonial  monetary  system.^  The  contract  maintained  the  privative  nature  of 
the  issuing  of  banknotes,  the  circulation  limit  of  which  was  to  be  separately 
established  for  each  colony;  the  exchange  with  Lisbon  was  maintained,  now 
dependent  on  the  financial  and  economic  condition  of  each  of  the  colonies; 
but  a new  system  of  monetary  reserves  was  established,  made  up  of  banknotes 
from  the  Bank  of  Portugal  and  some  others  with  unlimited  discharging 
power,  money  assets  from  the  BNU  on  order  to  any  credit  institution,  and  the 
gold-bonds  of  the  Caixa  Nacional  de  Credito.  However,  the  BNU  was  still 
obliged  to  establish,  by  August  1935,  a reserve  fully  made  up  of  gold-values, 
but  preferably  with  gold-exchanges. 

The  objective  was  thus  the  construction  of  a gold-exchange  standard  sys- 
tem. However,  the  impossibility  of  establishing  reserves  as  laid  down  led  in 
1943  to  the  first  amendment  of  the  1929  contract,  which  stated  that  the 
banknotes  represented  escudos  (the  Portuguese  currency)  and  were  reimburs- 
able in  banknotes  from  the  Bank  of  Portugal,  after  deducting  the  transaction 
fee.  In  practice,  this  led  to  an  escudo-exchange  monetary  system. 


ovAgisa  ovor 


60 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


A new  contract  between  the  Portuguese  State  and  Banco  Nacional  Ultra- 
marino,  in  1953,  introduced  important  changes  concerning  the  monetary 
standard  and  the  exchange  regime.^  Colonial  banknotes  became  representa- 
tive ol  gold,  but  reimbursable  in  bills  of  exchange  based  on  the  metropolitan 
escudo,  alter  deducting  the  transaction  lee.  The  BNU  had  to  establish  a 
single  monetary  reserve  to  cover  all  the  colonial  circulation  it  was  respon- 
sible lor,  made  up  of  banknotes  from  the  Bank  of  Portugal,  securities  from 
the  Portuguese  State,  and  gold  and  fine  silver.  However,  the  reserve  had  to 
be  chieliy  made  up  of  metropolitan  escudos,  or  values  representing  these,  in 
accordance  with  the  rule  of  the  third. ^ As  regards  the  regime  of  currency 
exchange,  the  contract  abandoned  the  principle  of  a feeless  exchange  of 
banknotes  between  the  colonies  of  Western  Africa,  with  these  now  being 
covered  by  the  legislation  concerning  transfers;  in  addition  to  the  fee,  there 
was  a commission  established  in  accordance  with  the  Government  Com- 
missioner for  the  Bank. 

Another  important  modification  was  the  establishment  of  an  Exchange 
Fund  {Fundo  Cambiat),  a public  fund  operating  freely  within  the  BNU, 
which  was  awarded  its  management  and  the  responsibility  for  the  amounts 
contained  therein.  The  Exchange  Fund  was  an  instrument  to  centralize  for- 
eign exchange  received  by  each  colony,  which  was  exclusively  earmarked  to 
assure  their  external  payments.  But  the  BNU  operated  it  exclusively  as  an 
exchange  mechanism,  exchanging  foreign  currency  for  colony  banknotes  and 
vice  versa,  making  foreign  currency  available  in  exchange  for  banknotes  of 
the  colony.  The  Fund  gave  the  BNU  the  possibility  of  modifying  the  amount 
of  currency  besides  the  rule  of  the  third,  increasing  the  money  supply  with 
an  increase  in  foreign  exchange  inflow,  or  reducing  it  with  an  increase  in  the 
demand  of  foreign  exchange  by  the  economic  agents  of  the  colony. 

Legislation  concerning  the  Escudo  Zone  reaffirmed  the  nature  of  the  colo- 
nial monetary  system,  defining  the  escudo  as  the  monetary  unit  for  all  the 
colonies  and  the  convertibility  of  colonial  escudos  into  metropolitan  escudos,  a 
convertibility  that  should  have  been  assured  by  the  issuing  banks,  with  suit- 
able currency  corrections  and,  where  necessary,  with  the  mutual  support  of 
the  exchange  funds. ^ There  was  a notable  worry  concerning  exchange  and 
assuring  the  external  solvency  of  the  national  currency,  which  led  to  the  rein- 
forcement of  the  centralization  tendency  of  the  reserves  begun  with  the  leg- 
islation of  1953 — the  creation  of  a system  established  by  the  Central  Reserve 
Bank  (the  Bank  of  Portugal)  and  by  a network  of  all  the  Exchange  Funds. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


61 


An  important  modification  introduced  by  the  set  of  laws  of  1961-63 
(Escudo  Zone)  was,  indeed,  the  autonomy  granted  to  the  Exchange  Fund 
and  its  institutionalization  as  a central  reserve  bank  of  the  colony,  with  func- 
tions concerning  the  centralization  of  monetary  reserves,  guaranteeing  the 
value  of  the  currency,  and  the  coordination  of  external  payment  operations. 
The  issuing  of  colonial  banknotes  continued  to  be  carried  out  through  cred- 
its from  the  Fund,  up  to  its  own  amount,  after  which  a reserve  would  be 
established  of  at  least  a third,  preferably  in  metropolitan  escudos,  or  values 
representing  these.  What  is  more,  the  banknotes  continued  to  be  reimburs- 
able in  metropolitan  escudos,  the  unit  of  account  of  the  Portuguese  economic 
space.  The  external  assets  obtained  by  the  Fund,  insofar  as  they  were  not 
necessary  for  the  liquidation  of  operations  concerning  external  payments, 
could  be  kept  in  the  BNU,  or  handed  over  to  the  Bank  of  Portugal  to  credit 
the  reserves  account  of  the  colony. 

We  can  highlight  three  main  aspects  in  this  story:  the  progressive  trans- 
formation of  the  monetary  system  into  a system  in  which  the  metropolitan 
currency  was  established  as  the  objective  standard — escudo  standard  colonial 
monetary  system  (Estevao,  “Moeda  e monetariza^ao”;  Moeda  e sistema  monetdrio 
73-77);  the  existence  of  a process  involving  the  centralizing  of  foreign  exchange 
that  did  not  affect  the  monetary  standard;  and,  furthermore,  the  power  of  the 
BNU  through  the  Exchange  Fund  to  issue  money  beyond  the  rule  of  the  third 
absolutely  guaranteed  by  the  foreign  exchange  acquired  by  the  colony.  Such 
power  of  issuing  became  an  essential  element  of  the  monetary  stability  in  Cape 
Verde,  because  the  colony  benefited  from  the  entry  of  a significant  quantity  of 
foreign  exchange  mainly  due  to  the  remittances  of  its  emigrants. 

The  metropolitan  exchange  standard  system  was  such  that  it  simultaneously 
enabled  its  use  as  an  instrument  of  protection  and  sovereignty  as  well  as  an 
instrument  of  economic  integration.  However,  the  system  also  allowed  for  the 
emergence  of  colonial  money  as  a perfectly  identifiable  institutional  phenom- 
enon and  a socially  recognized  measure  of  value  and  circulation  instrument, 
while,  in  essence,  it  was  nothing  more  than  a simple  representation  of  the  met- 
ropolitan currency.^  Its  social  recognition  and  its  convertibility  into  the  metro- 
politan escudo  contributed  not  only  to  support  the  process  of  economic  integra- 
tion with  the  metropolis  but  also  to  promote  a relative  integration  with  the  rest 
of  the  world  (Schuler  4),  thus  favoring  the  development  of  an  intense  relation- 
ship between  emigrants  and  their  families,  which  would  result  in  important 
economic  and  social  consequences  for  Cape  Verdean  society. 


JOAO  ESTEVAO 


62 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Remittances,  monetary  expansion,  and  monetarisation 

Emigration  has  been  a permanent  feature  in  the  history  of  Cape  Verdean 
society.  However,  it  was  during  the  early  nineteenth  century  onward  that  it 
became  an  important  factor  of  social  and  economic  change  (Estevao,  “Cabo 
Verde”  185),  not  only  due  to  its  size  and  ongoing  flux,  but  also  due  mainly 
to  the  link  established  between  the  archipelago  and  the  “economies”  of  the 
Atlantic  Ocean.  The  deep  causes  of  this  migratory  movement  were  the  sharp- 
ening of  the  economic  decline  of  the  islands  as  well  as  the  increasing  social 
conflict  associated  with  it.  Crises  relating  to  drought  and  the  lack  of  crops  had 
worsened  the  economic  decline  and,  as  they  became  more  frequent,  they  con- 
tributed to  deepening  the  rupture  of  the  ecological  balance  and  to  a fall  in  agri- 
cultural production,  thus  drastically  increasing  the  poverty  of  the  archipelago. 
The  mid-century  decades  were  particularly  affected,  and  it  was  precisely  in 
this  period  that  emigration  started  to  become  a large-scale  movement. 

The  first  phase  of  modern  Cape  Verdean  emigration  extended  throughout 
the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century  until  the  second  decade  of  the  twentieth 
century,  a period  characterized  by  the  large  size  of  the  migratory  flux  that  headed 
toward  the  United  States  of  America.  The  available  statistical  data  (for  just  the 
twentieth  century)  show  that,  between  1900  and  1920,  departures  to  the  United 
States  of  America  represented  61.7  percent  of  the  total,  much  greater  than  the 
flux  to  any  other  region.^®  Emigration  to  North  America  was  not  only  the  most 
important  in  quantitative  terms,  but  also  that  which  most  contributed  to  a per- 
manent flow  of  financial  transfers  (emigrant  remittances)  to  the  archipelago,  hav- 
ing a decisive  effect  on  the  evolution  of  the  Cape  Verdean  economy  and  society. 

This  emigration  phase  affected  Cape  Verdean  society  in  three  different 
ways:  In  the  first  place,  the  transfers  were  an  essential  instrument  for  the 
monetarization'^  of  the  agriculttiral  islands  and  for  the  expansion  of  internal 
trade;  in  the  second  place,  they  formed  an  indispensable  support  for  external 
payments  and  an  important  source  of  currency  stability  for  the  colony;  and, 
in  the  third  place,  the  income  obtained  through  emigration  enabled  many 
returning  americanos^^  to  be  able  to  purchase  part  of  the  lands  of  the  former 
classe  senhorial  (“landlord  class”),  whose  decline  had  significantly  increased  in 
the  first  decades  of  the  twentieth  century. 

The  first  of  these  effects  was  decisive  in  the  reconfiguration  of  the  personal 
relationships  that  Cape  Verdean  society  experienced  from  the  first  decades  of 
the  twentieth  century  onward,  this  within  a framework  of  the  expansion  of 
the  mercantile  economy.  An  illustrative  example  of  this  reconfiguration  was 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


63 


the  market  of  foreign  exchanges  that  took  place  beyond  the  formal  supervi- 
sion of  the  Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino  and  which  led  to  new  forms  of  rela- 
tions that  took  root,  above  all,  in  the  agricultural  islands,  the  main  centers  of 
emigration  for  the  United  States  of  Americad^  The  parallel  market  of  foreign 
exchange  functioned  on  the  basis  of  the  personal  relationship  that  was  estab- 
lished between  the  local  merchant  and  the  emigrant,  leading  to  an  almost 
exclusive  commercial  relationship.  The  emigrant  (or  his  family  members) 
paid  for  their  purchases  in  foreign  exchange,  or,  indeed,  opened  a current 
account  with  the  merchant,  which  enabled  them  to  purchase  their  supplies 
and  groceries  and,  whenever  necessary,  obtain  money  in  the  form  of  colonial 
currency  to  carry  out  other  family  or  market  operations.  In  return,  they  gave  the 
merchant  the  legal  power  of  attorney  to  receive  and  open  their  correspondence 
and  to  credit  their  checks  in  their  current  account.  This  was  a commercial  rela- 
tionship that  was  able  to  avoid  formal  supervision  very  easily.  However,  this 
type  of  relationship  was  decisive  in  the  expansion  of  local  commerce,  and  the 
development  of  a new  layer  of  merchants  who  flourished  with  the  growth  of 
the  emigrant  remittances  and  with  the  widening  of  monetary  relations  (mon- 
etarization)  in  the  various  agricultural  islands,  and  at  the  same  time  established 
a very  particular  complementary  relationship  between  personal  and  mercantile 
relationships  in  the  development  of  Cape  Verdean  society. 

The  foreign  exchange  received  by  the  colony  through  the  remittances, 
along  with  others  that  entered  in  return  for  the  rendering  of  services  (port 
services  and  submarine  cables),  were  always  very  important  to  ensure  the  sta- 
bility of  the  Cape  Verdean  currency  and  to  assure  its  external  payments.  A 
typical  example  of  this  situation  was  the  inflow  of  a great  number  of  Angolan 
banknotes  to  Cape  Verde  at  the  beginning  of  the  1 920s.  The  strong  devalua- 
tion that  had  taken  place  with  the  Angolan  currency  saw  its  banknotes  move 
to  other  African  colonies,  and  in  particular  to  Cape  Verde,  in  search  of  foreign 
exchange  and  taking  advantage  of  the  fact  that  colonial  banknotes  were  mutu- 
ally exchangeable  without  the  payment  of  a fee.  Following  an  evaluation  of 
the  effects  on  the  Cape  Verdean  escudo,  Portaria  No.  50  of  the  Government  of 
the  Colony,  of  30  May  1924,'^  concluded  that  Cape  Verdean  currency  could 
no  longer  continue  to  be  harmed  by  the  devaluation  of  the  Angolan  currency, 
given  that  it  was  the  only  legal  tender  in  the  colony  and  that  it  was  well  pro- 
tected through  the  size  of  its  existent  holdings  of  foreign  exchange.  According 
to  the  Portaria,  more  than  8 million  Angolan  escudos  had  entered  Cape  Verde, 
at  a time  when  the  average  circulation  of  Cape  Verdean  banknotes  was  in  the 


JOAO  ESTEVAO 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


order  of-  4.5  million  escudos.  What  is  more,  the  colonies’  external  balance  rep- 
resented a surplus  of  around  4 million  Cape  Verdean  escudos,  the  result  of  an 
important  vohime  ot  foreign  exchange  generated  from  the  submarine  cables 
and  coal  companies,  tax  revenue  received  in  the  Porto  Grande  of  the  city  of 
Mindelo,  and,  above  all,  from  the  remittances  of  Cape  Verdean  emigrants, 
which  made  Lip  around  4l  percent  of  the  total  foreign  exchange  revenue. 

The  third  effect  mentioned  was  a consequence  of  the  increase  in  revenue 
arising  from  emigration,  and  also  from  the  decadence  of  the  landlord  class, 
which  had  been  taking  place  since  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century. 
The  successive  droughts  and  the  loss  of  importance  of  the  main  agricultural 
exports  of  the  archipelago  had  led  to  a prolonged  economic  decline  of  the 
former  classe  senhorial.  Furthermore,  the  abolition  of  the  morgadio^^  in  1864 
had  introduced  the  possibility  of  the  purchase  and  sale  of  land  and  opened 
the  way  to  eventual  changes  in  the  legal  structure  of  property.  But  it  was  at 
the  turn  of  the  century  that  those  changes  started  to  be  visible,  when  the 
major  landholders,  greatly  indebted,  had  to  sell  parts  of  their  land  to  rich 
merchants  and  to  emigrants  returning  from  America.  As  Henrique  Teixeira  de 
Sousa  has  stated,  it  was  a highly  favorable  situation  for  the  emigrants:  “With 
the  money  saved  in  America,  they  bought  properties,  built  tiled  houses,  dug 
reservoirs,  purchased  livestock  and  a mule  for  traveling”  (“A  estrutura”  44). 

The  second  emigration  phase  lasted  from  the  1 920s  until  the  end  of  the  Sec- 
ond World  War  and  was  mainly  characterized  by  a significant  fall  in  the  num- 
ber of  departures.  However,  the  flows  to  South  America,  Europe,  and  Africa 
increased,  though  far  from  corresponding  to  the  fall  in  departures  to  the  United 
States  of  America.  It  was  in  fact  the  restrictions  imposed  by  the  North  American 
authorities  on  the  entry  of  new  immigrants  that  were  the  main  reasons  for  the 
decline  in  Cape  Verdean  emigration,  to  which  could  be  added  other  factors 
such  as  the  economic  crisis  of  1929  and,  later,  the  Second  World  War. 

After  1946,  emigration  once  again  became  a major  factor  in  Cape 
Verdean  society,  being  transformed  into  a “great  exodus”  (Carreira  107)  at  the 
end  of  the  1960s.  Around  142,100  people  left  the  archipelago  between  1946 
and  1973'^:  with  large  annual  fluctuations  between  1946  and  1962  (around 
3052  people  a year);  a visible  growth  trend  between  1963  and  1969  and  a 
quite  high  average  annual  departure  rate  (around  5438  people  per  year);  and 
there  was  a dramatic  rise  from  1970.  In  that  year  1 1,802  people  left  Cape 
Verde,  rising  to  17,029  in  1973,  with  an  annual  departure  average  of  15,143 
people. A fundamental  characteristic  of  this  third  phase  of  Cape  Verdean 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  65 

emigration  was  its  strong  movement  towards  Western  Europe,  in  particular 
Portugal,  Holland,  France,  and  Italy,  with  the  departures  to  the  United  States 
of  America  amounting  to  considerably  fewer  people. 

Emigration  during  this  phase  had  an  even  greater  impact  on  the  Cape 
Verdean  economy.  Above  all,  it  reflected  an  accentuated  growth  in  the  inflow 
of  private  currency  transfers:  Between  1967  and  1972,  for  example,  the  trans- 
fers accounted  for  in  the  balance  of  payments  went  from  89  to  169  million 
Cape  Verdean  escudos — that  is,  they  increased  almost  90  percent  (Estevao, 

“Moeda  e monetariza^ao”  App.  4).  Besides  this,  the  growth  in  transfers  brought 
about  a greater  increase  in  foreign  exchange  and,  as  a result,  a growth  in 
demand  for  local  currency  and  a major  increase  in  the  money  supply. 

Whilst  there  was  a relatively  stagnant  production  rate,  monetary  cir- 
culation started  an  interrupted  growth  cycle,  which  received  an  important 
increased  impetus  from  1963  onward.  In  1929,  the  contract  between  the  Por- 
tuguese State  and  Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino  had  fixed  a maximum  limit 
of  20  million  escudos  for  the  circulation  of  banknotes  in  Cape  Verde,  at  a time 
when  the  annual  average  circulation  was  of  the  order  of  1 1 million  escudos.  In 
1950  alone  this  limit  was  reached,  with  the  circulation  of  banknotes  a little 
more  than  20.01  million  escudos  with  the  money  supply  being  27.5  mil- 
lion. From  then  on,  growth  was  swift  and  the  money  supply  almost  tripled 
between  1950  and  1960.  However,  it  was  after  1963  that  the  major  accelera- 
tion in  growth  occurred,  to  such  an  extent  that  in  1973  the  money  supply  was 
around  sixteen  times  larger  than  that  in  1950,  having  quadrupled  between 
1963  and  1973  (Estevao,  “Moeda  e monetariza<;ao”  276-277). 

As  has  been  observed  above,  the  contract  in  1953  between  the  State  and 
BNU  enabled  the  bank  to  issue  the  necessary  banknotes  for  the  payment  of 
foreign  exchange  credited  in  the  exchange  fund,  independently  of  the  cir- 
culation limit  in  force.  The  1963  contract  altered  the  nature  of  this  issue, 
establishing  the  Exchange  Fund  and  specifying  the  amounts  credited  in  its 
account  as  the  main  counterpart  to  the  issuing  of  banknotes.  That  is,  the 
BNU  had  to  issue  banknotes  secured  by  the  foreign  exchange  credits  up  to 
their  amount,  and  was  obliged  to  establish  a monetary  reserve  (of  a third)  just 
for  the  values  above  this  amount.  Data  show  that  it  was  the  credit  expansion 
of  the  Exchange  Fund  that  was  the  main  element  responsible  for  the  increase 
in  money  supply  in  Cape  Verde  in  the  final  decades  of  the  colonial  period. 

In  1963,  the  Exchange  Fund  credits  represented  17.5  percent  of  the  money 
supply,  and  this  became  42.8  percent  in  1964  and  rose  up  to  69.3  percent  in 


JOAO  ESTEVAO 


66 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


1971  (Estevao,  “Moeda  e monetariza^ao”  280).  The  emigrant  transfers  were  a 
main  contributor  to  the  growth  in  the  credit  values  of  that  fund. 

Cape  Verdean  monetarization  during  the  colonial  period  was  essentially 
due  to  external  sources  and  associated  with  the  development  of  the  balance  of 
payments,  with  emigration  being  one  of  its  most  dynamic  elements.  Emigra- 
tion created  a How  ol  transfers  to  the  colony,  which  led  to  an  important  inflow 
ol  foreign  exchange  and,  as  a result,  a growth  in  demand  for  local  currency. 
This  growth  in  turn  led  to  an  expansion  of  the  monetary  space  and  created 
excessive  ptirchasing  capacity  in  relation  to  the  domestic  productive  capacity, 
which  made  possible  the  expansion  of  commerce  in  general  and  import  trade 
in  particular.  On  the  other  hand,  the  expansion  of  commerce  was  reflected  in 
the  greater  development  of  monetary  structures  within  the  domestic  economy 
and,  through  this,  a deepening  of  monetary  relations  between  individuals. 

Remittances,  welfare  solidarity,  and  monetary  stability 

Just  as  we  have  seen  above,  the  monetary  system  established  in  Cape  Verde 
allowed  the  emergence  of  colonial  money  as  an  institutional  phenomenon  and 
a socially  recognized  measure  of  value,  which  favored  the  development  of 
economic  and  personal  relationships  between  individuals  and  their  commu- 
nities. What  is  more,  it  was  these  relationships,  and  in  particular  the  relations 
between  the  emigrants  and  their  communities  that  were  very  important  in 
deepening  the  monetarization  of  Cape  Verdean  society,  so  as  to  guarantee 
monetary  stability  and  to  increase  the  social  recognition  of  the  colonial  money. 

Considering  the  evolution  of  the  monetary  phenomenon  in  Cape  Verde 
and  the  role  that  the  remittances  have  played  in  this  process,  we  can  dis- 
tinguish three  levels  of  analysis  that  help  us  to  understand  the  interaction 
between  economic  and  personal  relationships:  the  analysis  of  remittances 
(1)  as  an  instrument  of  welfare  solidarity  between  the  emigrants  and  their 
families;  (2)  as  an  instrument  of  mercantilization  and  monetarization;  and 
(3)  as  an  instrument  of  monetary  stabilization. 

The  literature  analyzing  the  remittance  determinants  has  been  oriented 
toward  the  individual  motivations  of  emigrants  and  it  is  usual  to  distinguish 
three  main  elements:  altruism,  self-interest,  and  implicit  family  contractual 
arrangement}'^  These  motives  are  of  course  not  mtitually  exclusive,  given  that 
the  remittances  may  simtiltaneously  involve  the  three  elements,  each  partially 
explaining  the  value  of  the  transfer.  They  all,  to  a greater  or  lesser  degree,  reflect 
the  solidarity  nature  of  emigrant  remittances. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


67 


The  first  motive,  altruism,  occurs  when  emigrants  send  remittances  to 
their  families  with  the  immediate  objective  of  improving  their  well-being. 
With  the  additional  income  they  receive,  their  family  members  can  increase 
their  consumption  level  and,  in  the  case  of  rural  family  members,  increase 
their  integration  into  the  mercantile  economy.  The  expansion  of  domestic 
trade,  the  increase  in  the  activity  of  local  merchants,  and  the  strong  growth  in 
the  import  of  consumer  goods,  mainly  from  the  beginning  of  the  1960s,  per- 
fectly illustrates  the  consumer  effect  of  emigrant  remittances  in  Cape  Verde. 

The  second  motive,  self-interest,  occurs  when  the  emigrants  send  part  of 
their  savings  to  purchase  durable  consumer  goods,  real  assets  (houses,  lands, 
etc.),  or  even  financial  assets.  The  acquired  assets  can  be  managed  by  the  fam- 
ily, which  acts  as  trustworthy  agents,  especially  when  the  emigrant  considers 
the  possibility  of  returning.  As  was  mentioned  in  the  previous  section,  this 
emigrant  behavior  played  an  important  role  in  the  transformation  of  the 
structure  of  landholdings  in  Cape  Verde,  both  following  the  emigration  to 
America  and,  later,  in  the  context  of  post-war  emigration.  However,  it  also 
played  an  important  role  in  the  urban  expansion  witnessed  from  the  1960s 
onward,  with  the  construction  of  dwellings  in  the  main  cities  of  the  archi- 
pelago and  the  consequent  migration  of  family  members  to  the  cities.  All  this 
means  that  the  impacts  of  remittances  associated  with  this  second  objective 
occur  essentially  through  their  investment  effect  in  the  local  economy. 

The  third  reason  involves  different  variations  on  a mutually  beneficial  contrac- 
tual arrangement  (Stark  and  Lucas  904)  implicit  in  the  relationship  between  the 
emigrant  and  his  family  members.  Some  studies  have  taken  the  family — instead 
of  the  individual — to  be  the  main  unit  of  analysis,  leading  to  an  approach  that 
sees  the  remittances  as  part  of  an  implicit  and  intertemporal  contractual  arrange- 
ment between  the  emigrant  and  his  family.  A variant  of  the  theory  considers 
an  investment  (Stark  and  Lucas)  or  a loan  element  (Poirine)  in  the  relationship 
between  members  of  the  family,  so  as  to  explain  the  reason  for  the  remittances. 
In  such  a case,  the  transfers  act  as  a repayment  of  expenses  made  by  the  family  to 
finance  both  the  education  of  the  emigrant  and  the  cost  of  his  emigration.  How- 
ever, the  remittances  may  also  form  an  important  financing  element  to  assure 
the  education  of  other  members  of  the  family  (children,  or  younger  brothers  and 
sisters,  for  example),  prolonging  family  solidarity  into  the  successor  generations, 
such  as  has  happened  in  Cape  Verde  in  recent  decades.  Another  variant  of  the 
theory  introduces  an  element  of  co-insurance  (Stark  and  Lucas)  into  the  relation- 
ship between  the  emigrant  and  his  family.  In  this  case,  the  emigration  is  seen  as 


OVA31S3  ovor 


68 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


a srrateg}'  tor  economic  risk  diversification  (or  sharing).  Just  as  capital  and  insur- 
ance markets  are  incomplete,  the  emigration  of  some  members  of  the  family 
may  constitute  a strategy'  to  find  alternative  sources  of  income  in  such  a way  as  to 
diversify  risks.  The  emigrant  members  may  thus  support  the  family  in  the  more 
difiicult  moments  and,  reciprocally,  this  may  constitute  an  element  of  insurance 
tor  those  who  have  emigrated,  if  they  find  themselves  in  a difficult  situation. 

Besides  the  remittances  as  an  important  instrument  of  welfare  solidarity 
between  emigrants  and  their  families,  they  also  had  significant  effects  on  the 
mercantilization  and  monetarization  of  Cape  Verdean  society. 

As  was  mentioned  above,  one  of  the  most  visible  aspects  of  the  evolution  of 
the  Cape  Verdean  economy  at  the  end  of  the  colonial  period  was  the  accentu- 
ated growTih  in  the  money  supply,  mainly  from  the  beginning  of  the  1960s.  The 
issuing  of  money  based  on  the  credits  of  the  Exchange  Fund  brought  about  a 
strong  expansion  of  local  currency,  accompanying  the  growing  inflow  of  for- 
eign exchange  originating  mainly  from  emigration.  It  was  indeed  this  monetary 
expansion  that  sustained  the  growth  and  enlargement  of  commerce  in  the  archi- 
pelago: On  the  one  hand,  the  emigrant  transfers  increased  the  purchasing  power 
of  families  who  increasingly  utilized  domestic  commerce,  which  thus  grew  and 
expanded  to  rural  areas;  on  the  other  hand,  the  growth  in  domestic  trade  led  to 
pressures  on  importation,  which  grew  rapidly  because  the  foreign  exchange  sur- 
plus was  able  to  guarantee  external  payments.  This  effect  of  the  remittances  on 
monetar)^  expansion  and  the  monetarization  of  the  Cape  Verdean  economy  can 
be  anal\^ed  on  two  levels,  that  of  the  formal  emigrant-bank-family  relationship 
and  that  of  the  informal  emigrant-merchant-family  relationship. 

The  first  type  of  relationship  is  developed  at  the  level  of  the  formal  econ- 
omy, in  which  the  relationship  between  the  emigrants  and  their  local  fami- 
lies was  intermediated  by  the  banking  institution,  both  when  a transfer  was 
directly  carried  out  through  the  formal  banking  system,  and  when  the  fam- 
ily received  the  remittance  in  an  informal  manner  and  went  to  the  bank  to 
exchange  it  for  local  currency.  Here,  the  personal  relationship  between  the 
emigrant  and  the  family  is  directly  expressed  through  the  formal  economic 
relationship  (transfer  and  discounting  by  the  bank),  which  is  to  say  that  the 
personal  relationship  is  synthesized  through  money,  as  a universal  measure  of 
value  that  is  based  on  a formal  and  impersonal  legal  system. 

The  second  type  of  relationship  includes,  on  the  one  hand,  the  relationship 
between  the  emigrant  and  the  local  merchant  and,  on  the  other,  the  relation- 
ship between  the  local  family  and  the  merchant.  The  latter  would  receive  the 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  69 

remittances  and  establish  a current  account  with  the  emigrants  family,  thus 
supplying  it  with  the  groceries  that  they  needed  and,  whenever  necessary,  local 
currency  that  would  be  needed  to  carry  out  other  economic  operations.  This 
involves  a combination  of  personal  relationships  that  are  intermediated  and 
synthesized  by  money.  The  informal  relation  between  the  merchant  and  the 
family  was  completed  by  a set  of  formal  relations  established  by  the  merchant 
with  the  bank,  which  provided  in  local  currency  the  counterpart  of  the  foreign 
exchange,  and  with  the  import  trade,  which  provided  him  with  the  necessary 
consumer  goods  to  be  sold  to  the  community.  The  personal  and  economic  rela- 
tions were  thus  complementary  with  each  other. 

Finally,  the  remittances  constituted  an  extremely  important  instrument  for  the 
stabilization  of  the  Cape  Verdean  currency.  From  a macroeconomic  point  of  view, 
remittances  have  two  kinds  of  effects  on  the  domestic  economy:  they  increase  the 
inflow  of  foreign  exchange,  and  they  allow  the  disposable  income  of  the  house- 
holds to  grow.  Both  effects  introduce  modifications  in  the  structure  of  domestic 
demand  (consumption  and  investment)  and,  in  this  way,  they  have  a significant 
influence  on  economic  growth  and  the  structural  change  of  the  economy. 

As  we  have  seen  above,  the  significant  volume  of  remittances  that  Cape 
Verde  received  following  post-war  emigration  enabled  it  to  guarantee  the  sta- 
bility of  the  money,  insofar  as  the  foreign  exchange  assured  the  external  pay- 
ments caused  by  the  growth  in  the  imports  of  consumer  goods.  The  money 
was  stable  because  the  remittances  were  concentrated  and  held  by  the  bank- 
ing system  in  the  form  of  foreign  exchange  (North  American  dollar,  Dutch 
florin,  Portuguese  escudo,  etc.)  and,  through  the  Exchange  Fund,  they  formed 
a stable  counterpart  to  the  issuing  of  local  currency.  In  other  words,  the  grow- 
ing supply  of  escudos  that  was  circulating  in  the  Cape  Verdean  economy  kept 
a stable  value  relationship  with  the  other  currencies  and  this  stability  was 
chiefly  ensured  by  the  remittances  of  the  emigrants. 

The  private  transfer  flows  directly  increase  the  income  of  the  households. 

This  increase  has  a short-term  effect  concerning  economic  growth  due  to 
consumption,  the  growth  of  which  raises  domestic  demand  and  leads  to  an 
increase  in  supply  (domestic  and  imported).  It  furthermore  has  a long-term 
effect  due  to  the  growth  in  savings  and  investment  in  the  economy.  Given 
the  conditions  of  a small  island  economy,  the  consumer  effect  is  much  more 
significant  than  the  investment  effect  and  usually  leads  to  a rapid  growth  in 
domestic  commerce  and  in  import  trade.  This  growth,  as  we  saw  above,  cor- 
responded in  Cape  Verde  to  a simultaneous  process  of  market  enlargement 


JOAO  EST£vAO 


70 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


and  monetarization  deepening — that  is  to  say,  it  reflected  the  growing  social 
recognition  of"  the  Cape  Verdean  currency  as  a universal  measure  of  value. 

We  can,  in  tact,  consider  two  kinds  of  effects  from  the  remittances  on  the 
Cape  Verdean  money.  As  the  expression  of  the  foreign  exchange  received  and 
held  by  the  banking  system,  the  remittances  constituted  a source  of  stability  for 
the  Cape  Verdean  escudo,  as  a tmiversal  measure  of  valtie,  or  money-of-account 
tor  the  colony.^®  Converted  into  local  currency  and  as  values  of  exchange,  or 
medium  of  exchange  {money-proper),  the  remittances  were  a basis  for  the  devel- 
opment of  economic  and  personal  relationships  within  the  community. 

Concluding  remarks 

This  article  proposes  a reading  of  the  colonial  monetary  phenomenon  in  Cape 
Verde  through  the  interaction  of  personal  relations  and  formal  economic  relations 
and  the  way  in  which  this  interaction  was  influenced  by  the  flows  of  remittances. 

The  starting  point  was  that  the  monetary  system  established  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  twentieth  century  led  to  the  emergence  of  colonial  money  as  an 
autonomous  institutional  phenomenon  and  as  a socially  recognized  universal 
measure  of  value,  but  that  the  main  source  of  monetary  stability  observed 
throughout  the  century  came  from  the  ongoing  flow  of  foreign  exchanges 
received  by  the  colony.  Given  that  the  remittances  from  emigrants  constituted 
a main  element  of  these  flows,  they  did  play  a key  role  in  stabilizing  the  colo- 
nial economic  and  monetary  system. 

The  monetary  transfers  that  Cape  Verde  received  led  to  three  main  kinds  of 
effect:  First,  they  functioned  as  an  instrument  of  welfare  solidarity  between  the 
emigrants  and  their  families,  driving  the  expansion  of  domestic  consumption 
and,  to  a lesser  degree,  the  grovva:h  of  the  investment;  second,  they  played  their 
part  in  nurturing  the  mercantilization  and  monetarization  of  the  archipelago, 
through  the  growing  integration  of  the  emigrants’  families  in  the  mercantile 
economy  and  the  intensification  of  formal  monetary  relations;  thirdly,  the  trans- 
fers were  the  main  source  of  the  stability  of  the  Cape  Verdean  escudo,  through  the 
accumulation  of  foreign  exchange,  which  acted  as  the  main  counterpart  to  the 
issuing  of  money.  The  combination  of  these  effects  generated  a complex  whole 
of  relations,  whose  interaction  enabled  the  system  to  be  balanced. 

The  remittances  thus  constituted  a base  for  the  development  of  personal 
and  economic  relations,  which  intertwined  and  sustained  the  expansion  of 
the  colonial  money,  thus  contributing  to  consolidate  its  recognition  at  a 
social  level.  There  did,  however,  exist  a degree  of  complementarity  between 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  71 

(informal)  personal  relations  and  (formal)  economic  relations,  a complemen- 
tarity that  was  synthesized  through  the  money.  We  can  thus  state  that  Cape 
Verdean  money,  as  a universal  measure  of  value,  was  an  abstraction,  whose 
social  recognition  resulted  in  its  capacity  to  involve  the  actual  relationships 
that  it  mediated  and,  due  to  this  very  fact,  to  synthesize  complex  relationships. 


Notes 

I would  like  to  thank  Jochen  Oppenheimer  and  Joana  Pereira  Leite  for  their  helpful  com- 
ments and  Maria  Joao  Estevao  for  her  support. 

' This  section  summarizes  some  of  the  results  of  a research  project  carried  out  some  years 
ago  on  the  Portuguese  colonial  monetary  system  in  Africa  and  on  its  implications  concerning 
Cape  Verdean  monetarization  at  the  end  of  the  colonial  period.  The  key  elements  of  these 
results  are  to  be  found  in  Estevao’s  “Moeda  e monetariza^ao”  and  Moeda  e sistema  monetdrio. 

^ See,  for  example,  both  Vilar  and  Galbraith  concerning  the  colonies  of  North  TVnerica, 
Ramos  concerning  Argentina,  and  Romano  regarding  Chile. 

^ The  Portuguese  colonies  included  Cape  Verde,  Portuguese  Guinea,  Sao  Tome  and  Prin- 
cipe, Angola  and  Mozambique  in  TVfrica,  Goa,  Damao,  and  Diu  in  India,  and  Macao  and  Timor 
in  East  Asia. 

^ See  “Contrato  entre  o Governo  e o Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino  para  a emissao  de  notas  e 
obriga^oes  prediais  no  Ultramar”  (Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino,  Leis,  estatutos  e normas  1:  102-121). 

^ See  “Clausulas  e condi(;6es  do  contrato  celebrado  em  3 de  Agosto  de  1929  entre  o Gov- 
erno e o Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino  para  o exercicio  do  privilegio  e exclusivo  da  emissao  de 
notas  nas  colonias  de  Cabo  Verde,  Guine,  S.  Tome  e Principe,  Moijambique,  India,  Macau  e 
Timor”  (Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino,  Leis,  estatutos  e normas  1:  131-1 54). 

^ See  “Clausulas  a que  se  refere  o artigo  unico  do  Decreto-lei  n°  39221”  (Banco  Nacional 
Ultramarino,  Leis,  estatutos  e normas  y.  126—140). 

^ The  volume  of  reserves  being  at  least  equal  to  one  third  of  the  banknotes  in  circulation. 

® See  the  Decreto-Lei  44.016  of  8 November  1961  {Decreto  da  integragao)  and  the  set  of 
complementary  laws  published  between  1961  and  1963.  The  1961-63  measures  underwent  sig- 
nificant changes  during  the  1960s,  and  they  were  later  incorporated  in  the  Decreto-Lei  478/71 
of  8 November  1971,  which  reformulated  some  aspects  of  the  system’s  functioning  without 
altering  its  main  mechanisms. 

^ On  the  nature  of  colonial  money,  see  for  example  Estevao  {Moeda  e sistema  monetdrio 
171-186). 

Percentage  calculated  on  the  basis  of  data  from  Carreira,  Table  XLIII  (284).  An  English 
version  of  this  book  is  available  with  the  title  The  People  of  the  Cape  Verde  Islands:  Exploitation 
and  Emigration,  published  in  London  by  C.  Hurst  (1982)  and  in  Hamden  (Connecticut)  by 
Archon  Books  (1983). 

' ' The  concept  of  monetarization  here  expresses  the  effect  of  the  extension  of  the  monetary 
space,  both  as  a consequence  of  enlarging  the  mercantile  sphere  of  the  economy,  as  well  as 
the  consequence  of  the  development  of  monetary  functions  (reserve  value,  credit).  See  Estevao 
(“Moeda  e monetariza^ao”)  and  Saint-Marc  {Monnaie  znd  “Notes”). 

The  Cape  Verdean  emigrants  in  the  United  States  of  America  were  usually  known  in 
Cape  Verde  by  the  name  of  americanos  (‘Americans”). 


JOAO  ESTEVAO 


72 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


'■^This  reconfiguration  may  be  captured  through  the  reports  of  the  subsidiaries  of  the  Banco 
Nacional  Ultramarino  and  through  the  various  letters  that  the  subsidiaries  addressed  to  the 
Governor  of  the  BNU,  from  the  first  decades  of  the  century  until  the  beginning  of  the  1960s, 
protesting  against  the  informal  market  of  foreign  exchanges  that  was  carried  out  by  the  mer- 
chants of  the  islands  (Estevao,  “Moeda  e monetariza^ao”  ch.  7). 

A letter  from  one  correspondent  on  the  island  of  Fogo  to  the  subsidiary  in  Santiago  put  it 
thus:  “As  for  its  supervision,  as  has  previously  been  communicated  some  time  ago,  this  is  almost 
impossible,  because  each  competitor  has  the  power  of  attorney  of  its  clients  to  receive  their  cor- 
respondence, whether  normal  or  registered  mail,  just  as  we  have,  and  thus  to  open  the  letters 
containing  checks,  and  to  pass  these  on  to  any  destination,  without  knowledge  of  this  or  the 
ability  to  fiscalize”  (qtd.  in  Estevao,  “Moeda  e monetariza^ao”  237—238). 

Between  1923  and  1924,  the  governor  of  the  colony  published  a set  of  decrees  on  the 
situation  concerning  the  circulation  of  Angolan  banknotes,  which  resulted  in  the  decision  to 
ban  the  circulation  of  these  notes.  These  decrees  have  been  reproduced  in  Paixao  {Cem  anos  do 
Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino  IV:  612-617). 

Form  of  inalienable  and  singular  landholding  only  transferable  to  the  first  masculine  heir 
(the  morgado),  the  siblings  of  whom  only  had  the  right  to  a part  of  the  income  of  the  morgadio. 
This  system  was  mainly  laid  down  in  the  first  inhabited  islands,  but  entered  into  disuse  with 
the  economic  decline  of  the  morgados.  Usage  of  the  land  had  been  gradually  shared  with  the 
mestizos  (“mestizos”)  and  libertos  (“free  slaves”),  who  in  this  way  acquired  land  as  tenant  farmers. 

The  statistical  information  concerning  emigration  is  again  based  on  Carreira. 

The  total  population  of  the  archipelago  was  around  1 82,000  people  in  1 940  and  27 1 ,000 
in  1970.  In  1970,  those  leaving  amounted  to  around  4.4  percent  of  the  total  population,  whilst 
in  1973  they  represented  6.2  percent.  The  data  of  total  population  are  from  the  Cape  Verdean 
Institute  of  Statistics. 

References  of  this  literature  are,  for  example,  Lucas  and  Stark,  Stark  and  Lucas,  Poirine, 
Brown,  and  McNabb  and  El-Sakka. 

Money-of-Account  and  Money-Proper  are  concepts  defined  by  Keynes  in  A Treatise  on 
Money.  “[M]oney-of- account  is  the  description  ox  7/V/f  and  the  money  {money-proper\  is  the  thing 
which  answers  to  the  description”  (Keynes  1:  3-4). 


Works  Cited 

Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino.  Leis,  estatutos  e normas  regulamentares  de  um  seculo  de  actividade 
(1864—1964).  3 vols.  Lisbon:  BNU,  1964.  Print. 

Brown,  Richard  P.  C.  “Estimating  Remittance  Functions  for  Pacific  Island  Migrants.”  World 
Development 25. 4 (1997):  613—626.  Print. 

Carreira,  Antonio.  Migrates  nas  ilhas  de  Cabo  Verde.  2nd  ed.  Praia:  Instituto  Cabo-Verdiano  do 
Livro,  1983.  Print. 

Crump,  Thomas.  The  Phenomenon  of  Money.  London:  Routledge  & Kegan  Paul,  1981.  Print. 

Estevao,  Joao.  “Cabo  Verde.”  Nova  Histdria  da  expansdo  portuguesa.  O Imperio  Africano  1825- 
1890.  Vol.  X.  Lisbon:  Estampa,  1998.  167-210.  Print. 

. “Moeda  e monetariza(;ao  colonial.  Uma  aproxima(jao  ao  caso  cabo-verdiano  no  fim  do 

periodo  colonial  (1961-1973).”  Diss.  Technical  University  of  Lisbon,  1989.  Print. 

. Moeda  e sistema  monetario  colonial.  Lisbon:  Escher,  1991.  Print. 

Galbraith,  J.  K.  Money:  Whence  It  Came,  Where  It  Went.  London:  Andre  Deutsch,  1975.  Print. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


73 


Keynes,  John  Maynard.  A Treatise  on  Money.  The  Pure  Theory  of  Money.  London:  MacMillan, 
1953.  Print. 

Lucas,  Robert  E.  B.,  and  Oded  Stark.  “Motivations  to  Remit:  Evidence  from  Botswana.”  The 
Journal  of  Political  Economy  ^5. 5 (1985):  901-918.  Print. 

McNabb,  Robert,  and  M.  I.  T.  El-Sakka.  “The  Macroeconomic  Determinants  of  Emigrant 
Remittances.”  World  Development  27 (1999):  1493-1502.  Print. 

Paixao,  Braga.  Cem  anos  do  Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino  na  vida  portuguesa,  1864-1964.  4 Vols. 

Lisbon:  Banco  Nacional  Ultramarino,  1964.  Print. 

Poirine,  Bernard.  “A  Theory  of  Remittances  as  an  Implicit  Family  Loan  Arrangement.”  World 
Development 2‘b. 4 (1997):  589-611.  Print. 

Ramos,  Angel  M.  Quintero.  Historia  monetaria  y bancaria  de  Argentina  (1500-1949).  Vol.  1. 
Mexico  City:  FMI/BID/Centro  de  Estudios  Monetarios  Latinoamericanos,  1970.  Print. 

Romano,  Ruggiero.  “Une  economie  coloniale:  le  chili  au  XVIIIe  siecle.”  Annales.  Economies, 
Societes,  Civilisations  15.2  (1960):  259-285.  Print. 

Saint-Marc,  Michelle.  Monnaie,  espace,  incertitude.  Theorie  de  la  monetarisation.  Paris:  Dunod, 
1972.  Print. 

. “Notes  sur  la  monetarisation  et  la  mesure  de  ses  relations  avec  le  developpement.” 

Revue  Economique  2\  .?>  (1970):  467-479.  Print. 

Schuler,  Kurt.  Monetary  Institutions  and  Underdevelopment:  History  and  Prescriptions  for  Africa. 
2003.  Web.  10  Jan.  2011.  < http://users.erols.com/kurrency/afhist.htm>. 

Stark,  Oded,  and  Robert  E.  B.  Lucas.  “Migration,  Remittances,  and  the  Family.”  Economic 
Development  and  Cultural  Change  30. d (1988):  465-481.  Print. 

Sousa,  Henrique  Teixeira  de.  “A  estrutura  social  da  ilha  do  fogo  em  1940.”  Claridade  5 (1947): 
42-44.  Print. 

. “Sobrados,  lojas  & funcos.”  Claridade  % (1958):  2-8.  Print. 

Torres,  Adelino.  O imperio  portugues  entre  o real  e o imagindrio.  Lisbon:  Escher,  1991.  Print. 
Vilar,  Pierre.  Or  et  monnaie  dans  I’Histoire,  1450-1920.  Paris:  Flammarion,  1974.  Print. 


Joao  Estevao  is  PhD  in  economics  and  professor  of  development  economics  at  ISEG 
(Institute  of  Economics  and  Management),  Technical  University  of  Lisbon.  His  current 
research  includes  development  economics,  institutional  economics,  economic  history 
(particularly  the  economic  history  of  Portuguese  colonization)  and  small  island  economies. 
His  last  publications  on  Cape  Verde  issues  are:  “A  economia  cabo-verdiana  desde  a 
independencia:  uma  transiqao  lenta”  (“The  Cape  Verdean  economy  since  independence: 
a slow  transition”);  “A  economia  cabo-verdiana  30  anos  apos  a independencia:  uma 
transiqao  dificil”  (“The  Cape  Verdean  economy  30  years  after  independence:  a difficult 
transition”);  “O  desenvolvimento  de  Cabo  Verde  e o modelo  de  integraqao  economica 
internacional”  (“Cape  Verdean  development  and  the  model  of  international  economic 
integration”);  “Cabo  Verde,  o acordo  de  cooperaqao  cambial  e o Euro”  (Cape  Verde,  the 
exchange  cooperation  agreement,  and  the  Euro).  Email;  jestevao@iseg.utl.pt 


JOAO  ESTEVAO 


i 


■ ir-i> 

'♦r^'T  ' 


: ■:  /.  v<4t^3  ' ■“ 

> • - * 
liJ^y.-’  '■■■,  - I ■ -i';  ' 


«Vai'}^'  ('■«  r*.  -.i"  ' _ 

.v\W' 

• ..irr/*i>b!r;.. 

' >itH, «.«?'  • t . 


ikHlil! 


State-Sponsored  Indemnification,  the  Materiality  of  Money, 
and  the  Meanings  of  Community  in  Salvador,  Brazil's 
Pelourinho  Cultural  Heritage  Center 


John  F.  Collins 


Abstract.  This  paper  is  an  ethnography  of  state-citizen  relations  around 
the  exchange  of  money  for  working-class  Brazilians’  living  spaces  coveted 
by  the  state  in  its  efforts  to  establish  a UNESCO  World  Heritage  Site. 

It  argues  that  money,  as  a material  sign  of  experience  and  suffering,  has 
become  a mnemonic  and  a source  of  insightful  analyses  of  state  power  on 
the  part  of  people  subject  to  the  indemnification  process  from  1992  to 
the  present. 

In  August  of  2004  I returned  to  the  Pelourinho  Historical  Center  in  the  Bra- 
zilian city  of  Salvador,  Bahia,  after  an  absence  of  two  years.  I did  so  to  visit 
friends  and  to  share  a book  manuscript  based  on  their  fierce  battle  to  hold 
on  to  their  homes  in  the  face  of  the  states  attempt  to  remove  occupants  and 
reconstruct  these  edifices  while  transforming  the  neighborhood  into  a prop- 
erly historical  and  sanitary  UNESCO  World  Heritage  Site.  As  we  reminisced, 
a woman  asked  about  “Dois  Pes,”  a dance  teacher  she  used  to  tease  due  to  his 
supposedly  effeminate  occupation.  I responded  that  I saw  Dois  frequently  in 
New  York  and  that  he  had  been  unable  to  visit  because  of  green  card  prob- 
lems. I told  them  with  a bit  of  malice  that  Dois’s  proof  of  residency  had 
been  printed  incorrectly.  When  specifying  sex,  the  government  had  inserted 
an  “F”  for  female.  He  returned  the  document  and  could  not  travel.  This 
thrilled  my  audience  since  these  capoeira  fighters,  aluminum  can  collectors. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  75-92. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


76 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


tourist  hustlers,  construction  workers,  reggae  musicians,  domestic  serv^ants, 
and  small-time  drug  dealers  I was  visiting  had  long  teased  Dois  about  his  lack 
of-  macho  swagger. 

In  response  to  this  news,  a man  I call  Ordep  announced,  introducing  this 
article’s  concerns  with  the  results  of  the  exchange  of  money  for  living  quarters, 

Coitado  de  Dois.  Eu  lembro  quando  a genre  foi  pegar  fila  no  Baneb  pra  pegar  a 
indeniza9ao.  Dois  estava  falando  do  servico  militar,  que  era  fusileiro  naval,  e o pra^a, 
aquele  que  fica  no  canto  pra  eles  nao  levar  o cofre,  ele  olhou  pra  Dois  e falou  “Pare 
de  rebolar,  que  porra  e isso,  rapaz?  Eles  nao  Ihe  ensinaram  como  Hear  em  pe  na 
marinha?!?  Voce  vai  deixar  o dinheiro  cair  se  nao  dar  urn  jeito.”  Coitado  de  Dois. 


[Poor  Dois.  I remember  when  we  were  standing  in  line  together  to  cash  our 
indemnification  checks  at  the  Baneb  (Banco  do  Estado  da  Bahia).  Dois  was  tell- 
ing me  about  sersdng  in  the  marines  and  that  cop,  you  know  the  one  who  stands 
on  the  corner  to  make  sure  they  don’t  rob  the  place,  he  looked  at  Dois  and  said 
“Stand  straight,  what  the  hell  is  wrong  with  you,  man?  Didn’t  they  teach  you  how 
to  stand  in  the  marines?!?  You’re  going  to  drop  all  your  money  if  you  don’t  fix 
that!”  Poor  Dois!] 

Soon  the  group  began  to  recall  Dois’s  foibles  as  part  of  stories  about 
the  removal  of  Pelourinho  residents  during  the  neighborhood’s  mid-1990s 
reforms.  They  remembered  how  he  came  home  wobbling  after  taking  a 
depressant  and  had  his  pocket  picked  by  a street  child.  And  then  they  laughed 
more  as  they  remembered  how  Dois  had  tried  to  avoid  rent  on  a room  he 
occupied  after  receiving  a government  indemnification  and  moving  out  of 
his  condemned  quarters  in  the  Pelourinho.  He  had  tried  to  plead  poverty  to 
a landlord  who  broke  into  his  room  and  confiscated  his  clothing.  But  when 
Dois  paid  and  retrieved  the  clothes  he  found  that  the  almost  R$1000  indem- 
nification he  had  hidden  in  a pocket  was  gone. 

Dois’s  friends  found  it  hilarious  that  he  had  tried  to  be  esperto,  or  a suc- 
cessful trickster,  and  ended  up  “quebrando  a cara”  (“breaking  his  face”).  This 
led  them  to  recall  the  Pelourinho’s  1992-2002  indemnification  process  that 
had  forced  them  to  give  up  homes  in  exchange  for  payments  that  ranged 
from  US$800  to  $2000.  They  talked  of  the  binges,  parties,  and  commodi- 
ties that  this  windfall  allowed  them.  Soon  a rosy  feeling  filled  the  room  as  we 
remembered  with  glee  the  pratfalls  of  drunk  neighbors  or  people’s  pride  in 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  77 

new  outfits  that  appeared  “xique”  (“chic”)  at  the  time  but  that  we  now  found 
“brau”  (“tasteless”).  Nonetheless,  the  effect  was  one  of  connection  as  people 
talked  of  events  they  had  understood  as  difficult  and  trying  when  their  com- 
munity was  being  ripped  apart  by  the  combined  forces  of  cultural  heritage 
officials,  police  who  enforced  the  culture  managers’  dictates,  and  the  tempta- 
tions of  cash  money. 

Yet  as  nostalgia  took  over,  these  former  residents  who  frequently  fought 
bitterly  and  usually  argued  that  they  were  individuals  and  not  a group,  found 
themselves  united  by  a structure  of  feeling  that  pointed  to  the  fact  that  they 
had  lived  together  for  decades.  And  this  emanated  from  an  experience  with 
state-directed  evaluation,  pricing,  and  eventual  takeover  of  their  living  spaces. 

It  is  worth  pointing  out  here  that  a significant  body  of  social  scientific  works 
in  and  of  Latin  America,  as  is  true  elsewhere,  approaches  money  as  a source  of 
anomie  and  thus  a threat  to  personal  relations.  Yet  in  the  Pelourinho,  together 
with  our  friend’s  perceived  weaknesses,  money  appeared  to  serve  as  a mne- 
monic and  a source  of  communion  among  old  friends.  Of  course,  this  locus 
of  good  feeling  was  not  quite  money.  Rather,  the  group  came  together  around 
memories  of  money  or,  put  slightly  better,  the  human  relations  associated 
with  or  counterposed  to  its  circulation. 

At  the  center  of  this  article  lie  issues  that  emanate  from  Marx’s  now  para- 
digmatic treatment  of  commodity  fetishism  and  the  relations  between  pro- 
duction, exchange,  and  consumption.  Through  social  scientific  research  and 
cultural  heritage  management  I wish  to  examine  what  I term  a “commodifica- 
tion of  humanity  itself”  and  begin  to  assess  the  sorts  of  insights,  divergences, 
and  group  identifications  that  arise  in  light  of  this  process  closely  related  to 
the  forms  of  alienation  that  Marx  identified  as  responsible  for  the  abstractions 
and  misrecognitions  that  are  so  much  a part  of  capital’s  exploitation  of  labor 
in  the  modern  world.  This  paper  is  thus  a consideration  of  a specific  ethno- 
graphic problem  in  the  Pelourinho  as  well  as  a broader  process  of  capital  accu- 
mulation around  the  production  and  marketing  of  multicultural  identities.  It 
engages  the  cultural  specificity  of  Brazilian  working-class  approaches  to  capi- 
tal as  well  as  historically  situated  subject  production  around  money  without 
reifying  something  like  a “Brazilian”  approach  to  cash  and  commodification. 

Instead,  it  examines  a cultural  heritage  zone,  a site  of  self-consciously  Bra- 
zilian production  of  culture  as  a commodity,  as  a means  of  mapping  shifts  in 
the  value  of  culture  and  the  role  of  money  in  the  forms  of  everyday  life  girded 
by,  and  productive  of,  such  new  cultural  manifestations  (Collins,  “Culture”). 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


78 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


In  short,  1 argue  here  that  fetishism  is,  in  the  Bahian  historical  center,  a cul- 
tural discourse  that  may  be  employed  for  various  ends  and  that  may  result  in 
defetishizations  that  reveal  novel  perspectives  on  historical  processes.  In  doing 
so,  I offer  a discussion  of  the  theoretical  bases  for  this  approach.  Next  I give 
an  outline  of  Pelourinho  social  relations  and  Bahian  history  before  moving  to 
the  ethnographic  investigation  that  forms  the  paper’s  backbone. 

Neo-liberalism,  Bahia,  and  their  forms  of  community 

The  Pelourinho  reveals  processes  of  great  interest  in  response  to  recent  calls 
for  “new  combinations  of  community  and  market”  (Gudeman  163).  In  this 
neighborhood,  class  status  and  capital  accumulation  depend  in  a variety  of 
ways  on  the  performance  of  blackness.  In  other  words,  although  social  scien- 
tists have  long  examined  how  the  production  of  a nation  and  a people  gird 
state  formation,  in  Bahia  today  the  grooming  of  a symbolic  national  people  in 
a cultural  heritage  center  has  given  rise  to  a type  of  human  export  commod- 
ity. This  is  something  I have  explored  at  length  elsewhere  (Collins,  Revolt) 
and  here  I would  like  to  examine  in  detail  one  aspect  of  this  process,  namely 
the  bureaucratic  interactions  so  much  a part,  and  the  results,  of  state-citizen 
negotiation  of  government  payments  to  residents. 

One  of  the  most  basic  results  of  the  state-sponsored  indemnification  of 
Pelourinho  residents  in  the  1990s  is  related  to  Hacking’s  “looping  effect,”  or 
“how  the  structure  and  implementation  of  knowledge-framing  relate  to  the 
validation  of  current  experience”  (Guyer  21).  In  the  Pelourinho  of  the  1990s, 
this  was  a process  whereby  sanctioned  representations,  even  if  they  bore  little 
actual  resemblance  to  practices  “on  the  ground,”  returned  to  provide  cognitive 
models  and  patterned  cultural  schemas  much  utilized  by  people  in  making 
sense  of  their  world.  Thus  the  categories  employed  in  ascertaining  the  social 
features  and  habits  of  the  often  unruly  population  of  the  Pelourinho — Salva- 
dor’s red-light  zone  since  1945 — as  that  state  struggled  to  make  it  into  a sym- 
bol of  national  pasts,  reappear  in  discussions  of  that  process.  The  objectifica- 
tions fomented  by  the  state  gain  new  lives  when  refracted  and  redeployed  by 
the  people  subject  to  them.  And  this  co-production  of  social  types  demystifies 
aspects  of  the  commodification  process  and  provides  remaining  residents  with 
a contradictory  but  nonetheless  powerfully  effective  notion  of  community. 
It  does  so,  however,  through  a quite  iconoclastic  treatment  of  money.  Thus 
the  exchange  of  money  for  dwellings  has  both  destroyed  a neighborhood  and 
reconstituted  a somewhat  different  community  in  its  place. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


79 


This  argument  turns  on  a recognition  that  “representations  are  [indeed] 
social  facts”  (Rabinow)  and  that  their  facticity  provides  subaltern  populations 
with  labile  resources  for  refashioning  futures  (Scott).  It  builds  on  the  recogni- 
tion that  specific  commodities  have  lives  of  their  own  (Appadurai;  Parry  and 
Bloch).  But  this  is  tempered  by  the  realization  that  studies  have  focused  for 
the  most  part  on  exchange  rather  than  objects’  circulation  and  that  too  often 
in  social  thought,  “once  conceptually  removed  from  circulation,  commodities 
and  money  are  also  removed  from  the  space  and  time  of  their  genesis”  (Eiss 
293;  Lemon;  Maurer).  But  what  happens  when  subalterns  interpret  their 
state’s  actions  as  generative  of  human  commodities  and  those  people/com- 
modities  continue  to  circulate  within  sanctioned  and  unsanctioned  spaces 
of  historical  representation?  As  these  people  move  about  the  city,  and,  espe- 
cially, the  Pelourinho’s  carefully  groomed  plazas,  what  sorts  of  interpretations 
do  they  put  together  of  the  process  of  commodification  and  monetarization 
of  their  everyday  habits,  or  vernacular  “culture,”  that  in  turn  generates  that 
landscape  through  cultural  heritage  management?  How  does  this  give  rise 
to  alternative  histories  of  Brazil  and  of  the  making  of  commodities  around 
money  and  exchange,  and  how  does  it  reproduce  the  official  stories  told  by 
the  Bahian  state  in  the  Pelourinho? 

For  Marx,  money  is  a homogenizing  force  without  a history  in  itself  Its 
history  is  one  of  the  progressive  appropriations  of  the  value  of  human  labor 
and  its  illusory  crystallization  as  an  apparently  inert  yet  circulating  object 
divorced  from  contextual  specificity  and  human  being.  From  this  perspec- 
tive, money  is  unable,  unlike,  for  example,  “the  cow,  symbolic  or  substantial, 
to  embody  a biography,  let  alone  bear  with  it  an  entire  grammar  of  social 
relations”  (Comaroff  and  Comaroff  151).  Yet  when  one  examines  the  rela- 
tions between  money,  culture,  and  the  Pelourinho  resident  constructed  by  the 
Bahian  state  as  a living  representative  of  national  origins,  it  appears  that  both 
people  and  money  contain  and  stand  metonymically  for  particular  histories 
in  Bahia’s  cultural  heritage  zone  today. 

The  invention  of  tradition,  the  undoing  of  degeneracy,  and  the  control  of  ter- 
ritory: Pelourinho,  1967-2006 

Until  the  mid-1990s,  “respectable”  Brazilians  avoided  Salvador’s  downtown 
Maciel.  This  region  of  crumbling  buildings  and  soiled  cobblestones  much 
photographed  by  outsiders  exhibited  extremely  high  rates  of  crime.  This 
changed  in  1992  when  the  state  began  to  remove  the  residents  so  as  to  declare 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


80 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


eminent  domain  over  buildings,  restore  these  landmarks,  and  lease  them  to 
the  tourist  industry.  This  was  conceptualized  as  a “recuperation”  of  Salvador, 
the  nation’s  birthplace  and  oldest  major  city.  It  represented  an  attempt  to 
make  tourism  and  culture  a linchpin  of  the  state’s  economy  and  their  profits. 
And  it  was  possible  because  since  1985  the  Maciel,  which  is  now  known  as 
the  PeloLirinho,  has  been  classified  as  a UNESCO  World  Heritage  Site.  This 
is  due  to  its  several  hundred  Portuguese  baroque  buildings  and  to  the  effer- 
vescence of  its  residents’  cultural  production.  And,  given  UNESCO’s  involve- 
ment, the  state  came  to  focus  on  the  safeguarding  of  “traditional”  Bahian 
culture  and  the  provision  of  security  to  visitors.  This  has  involved  a social 
science-based  governmentality  in  which  the  careful  nurturing  of  gendered 
moralities,  health,  and  cultural  production  has  allowed  the  state  to  occupy  a 
region  that  for  most  of  the  second  half  of  the  twentieth  century  was  out  of  its 
direct  control.  For  this  reason,  among  many  others,  the  payment  of  indemni- 
fications so  as  to  remove  more  than  4000  residents  was  a fraught  process  that 
has  remained  an  area  of  concern  for  both  the  state  and  those  who  received,  or 
failed  to  receive,  indemnifications.  Yet  such  payment  was  not  the  first  step  in 
remaking  the  Pelourinho. 

The  Bahian  state  set  out  in  1967  to  reassert  control  over  this  neighborhood 
that  had  been  abandoned  by  elites  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century  by 
establishing  the  Bahian  Institute  for  Artistic  and  Cultural  Patrimony  (IPAC). 
IPAC  employed  social  scientific  methods  to  map  the  Maciel/Pelourinho  and 
establish  it  as  a community  that  might  be  associated  with  Bahian  and  Brazil- 
ian identity  (Collins,  “X  Marks”).  This  mapping  during  the  1970s  and  1980s 
became,  by  the  1990s,  a form  of  quantifying  the  value  of  the  real  estate  occu- 
pied by  working-class  Bahians  often  involved  in  the  drug  trade,  prostitution, 
or  informal  services  for  tourists.  A concern  for  the  family  structures,  health, 
and  gendered  morality  of  a population  was  mobilized  to  construct  an  image 
of  state  care  of  groups  configured  as  problematic.  And  this  resulted  in  the  re- 
appropriation  of  a section  of  the  city  that  had  been  effectively  off-limits  to  the 
bourgeoisie  and  out  of  its  direct  control  for  decades.  But  the  careful  ethno- 
graphic and  sociological  mapping  of  the  Pelourinho  in  the  1970s  and  1980s 
is  most  important  to  understanding  what  happened  in  the  1990s  because  it 
accustomed  residents  to  the  workings  of  social  science. 

Residents,  accustomed  to  interacting  with  IPAC,  interpreted  data  produc- 
tion in  preparation  for  indemnification  as  but  another  iteration  of  a long  line 
of  attempts  to  know  them.  People  did  not  treat  the  payment  as  conceptually 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  81 

new  but  as  part  of  a long  line  of  interactions  with  IPAC.  Nonetheless,  many 
were  excited  about  the  possibility  of  receiving  monies.  Others,  however,  were 
less  sanguine.  How  this  process  played  out  in  the  mid-1990s,  and  the  lessons 
about  interactions  with  state  bureaucracies  and  the  value  of  their  everyday 
habits  to  that  states  political  economic  policies,  have  much  to  do  with  the 
role  of  money  in  the  construction  of  community  in  the  Pelourinho  as  cultural 
heritage  center,  as  opposed  to  red  light  zone. 

Indemnification:  a source  of  ideal  types? 

The  payment  of  indemnifications  may  appear  at  first  glance  to  have  ripped 
apart  a threatened  community  of  people  who  struggled  to  survive.  Nonethe- 
less, this  has  not  been  the  case  over  the  long  run.  Before  detailing  how  indem- 
nification helped  define  community  and  hence  certain  forms  of  solidarity 
among  working-class  Bahians,  I examine  the  disruptions  generated  by  this 
process  in  the  mid-1990s.  And  my  fieldnotes  contain  graphic  evidence  of 
such.  On  14  May  1999,  I wrote,  after  visiting  a building  in  which  a majority 
of  residents  had  been  indemnified  even  as  a core  group  held  out  for  higher 
indemnifications  or  possession  of  the  building  under  Brazil’s  usufruct  laws: 

Got  in  touch,  for  first  time  in  over  a week  [with  the  residents  of  number  18 
Saldanha  da  Gama  Street]  since  when  I went  by  last  Tuesday  I found  only  Fabio 
and  Roberto  around.  The  place  is  now  a mess,  with  empty  wallets  and  diarrhea 
sprayed  all  over.  Everyone  in  the  “Rasta  Resistencia”  has  now  given  up  hope,  has 
decided  that  they’re  gonna  run  and  get  the  money  before  it  is  lost.  Mandela  and 
Garimpeiro  are  desperate  to  get  their  hands  on  the  loot  and  Ze  Eduardo  says  that 
he  doesn’t  want  to  be  living  in  a place  like  this,  in  which  there  are  huge  fights  in 
the  courtyard  at  night,  “altas  divisoes  (or  was  it  divisa  he  said?)  de  roubo,  pedra,  a 
barreira  toda.  E os  caras,  so  porque  voce  e mais  esclarecido,  tern  fe  em  Jah  mesmo, 
acha  que  voce  e covarde,  que  tern  medo  de  agir.”  [“They  come  here  to  split  up  the 
loot  [...]  the  spoils  of  robbery,  crack  cocaine,  the  whole  gang  is  here.  And  those 
guys,  just  because  you’re  a bit  more  informed,  you  believe  in  Jah,  they  think  that 
you’re  a coward,  that  you’re  afraid  of  acting.”] 

Garimpeiro  agrees,  saying  “John  [2  second  pause]  tern  cada  treita  de  madru- 
gada  [1  second]  nao  da  nem  pra  dormir.  E muita  onda  aqui  neste  lugar  de  noite.” 

[“John,  late  at  night  shit  happens.  You  can’t  even  sleep.  There’s  a lot  of  trouble  in 
this  place  at  night.”] 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


82 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Due  to  the  rates  of  violence  inside  the  building,  its  deteriorating  physi- 
cal state,  and  the  threat  that  IPAC  would  stop  paying  indemnifications  to 
those  who  failed  to  accept  offers,  residents  felt  pressured  to  turn  over  their 
spaces.  Yet  many  did  not  want  to  leave  their  homes  in  the  center  and  end  up 
in  impoverished  neighborhoods  where  jobs  and  the  excitement  of  the  cin^ 
center  would  be  difficult  to  find.  As  people  insisted,  “o  dinheiro  nao  corre  no 
bairro”  (“There  is  no  money  in  the  neighborhood”).  Due  to  resistance,  IPAC 
social  serv’ice  professionals  worked  to  tailor  a moving  package  to  each  family 
or  individual.  At  the  center  of  this  process  was  the  negotiation  of  the  amount 
of  money  to  be  paid,  but  residents  also  received  the  ser\nces  of  a moving  truck 
and  help  in  opening  bank  accounts  and  obtaining  identit)^  documents  so  that 
they  could  cash  government  checks. 

Despite,  or  perhaps  because  of,  the  emphasis  on  indemnification,  residents 
talked  incessantly  of  the  monies  they  would  receive  from  the  state.  Many  tried 
to  collect  more  than  one.  People  would  sign  over  their  homes,  cash  their  checks, 
and  then  quickly  set  up  house  on  an  adjoining  block  only  to  greet  IPAC  teams 
happily  as  those  social  scientists  expanded  their  mapping  and  quantification 
of  the  neighborhood.  Residents  also  worked  diligently  to  slip  family  or  friends 
onto  the  lists  of  people  indemnified  and  they  would  divide  up  these  monies 
between  the  person  named  and  the  person  who  signed  up  that  individual. 

IPAC  calculated  indemnifications  with  a formula  it  would  never  release 
to  me.  They  claimed  it  was  based  on  time  of  residence,  area  occupied,  family 
size,  and  the  uses  to  which  the  space  was  put.  Yet  the  most  important  determi- 
nants of  indemnifications  were  residents’  previous  relationships  to  IPAC,  state 
agents’  perceptions  of  residents’  contact  or  friendships  with  populist  politi- 
cians or  police,  and  inhabitants’  ability  to  blackmail  or  negotiate  with  IPAC 
employees.  The  result  of  this  lack  of  clarity,  together  with  the  conversion 
of  previous  IPAC  research  activities  into  more  narrowly  focused  attempts  to 
understand  what  it  would  take  to  dislodge  residents,  was  increasing  strife  and 
distrust  between  community  members  and  in  regards  to  their  state. 

For  example,  on  10  May  1999,  the  head  of  IPAC  legal  ser\nces,  Lucia 
Sepulveda,  called  to  her  office  recalcitrant  residents  of  18  Saldanha  da  Gama. 
One,  an  Evangelical  Christian,  summed  up  the  meeting  as  “Jesus  Cristo  fez 
ela  ver  a luz.  Ela,  com  o espfrito  de  Jesus  Cristo,  deu  para  entender  melhor  a 
nossa  situa^ao  e disse  que  possivelmente  fa  reaver  a nossa  situa(;ao,  fa  ver  se 
dava  para  conseguir  uma  reloca^ao  depois.  E ela  ofreceu  uns  2 conto  para  cada 
um  de  nos”  (“Jesus  Christ  made  her  see  the  light.  She  was  able  to,  with  help 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  83 

from  the  spirit  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  understand  our  situation  a bit  better 
and  she  said  that  perhaps  she’d  be  able  to  reconsider  our  situation.  She  was 
going  to  see  if  she  could  relocate  us.  And  she  offered  about  R$2,000  to  each 
of  us”).  This  person  had  fought  so  as  not  to  have  to  give  up  his  home  and  it 
seemed  to  him  that  IPAC  had  relented  and  would  grant  not  only  R$2000, 
but  the  right  to  return  to  live  following  the  reconstruction.  However,  the 
same  man  went  back  the  next  day  with  all  the  building’s  holdouts  and  found 
that  the  offer  had  changed.  He  reported:  “O  diabo  fez  ela  endurecer.  Nao 
tinha  mais  aquela  proposta  que  ela  colocou  no  outro  dia”  (“The  devil  made 
her  take  a harder  line.  That  proposal  from  the  other  day  was  now  off  the 
table”).  The  deal  was  off  and  a man  I will  call  Cabore  offered  the  following 
explanation:  “Na  hora  da  reuniao  cada  um  vem  com  uma  fala  diferente,  vai 
cortando  a conversa  do  outro,  a genre  fica  brigando  entre  nos,  e ela  so  sentada, 
oh,  espiando,  esperando,  sentada  ah'  pra  espalhar  as  treitas”  (“At  the  moment 
we  meet  everyone  comes  in  with  a different  speech,  cutting  one  another  off, 
and  we  end  up  fighting  between  ourselves,  and  she’s  just  there  sitting  there 
watching,  waiting,  and  getting  ready  to  make  our  petty  squabbles  bigger”). 

The  problem,  he  continued,  is  that  there  is  no  unity  among  the  members  of 
the  community  or  even  of  the  residents  of  his  one  building. 

An  example  of  this  lack  of  unity  exacerbated  by  easy  money  took  place  the 
next  week  when  the  residents  returned,  again,  to  see  what  they  might  extract 
from  Sepulveda  and  IPAC.  Perhaps  sensing  their  disunity,  she  discussed  the 
possibility  of  offering  R$20,000  to  the  group  so  that  they  could  buy  a house 
together.  Not  only  did  such  houses  cost  much  more  at  the  time,  but  another 
resident  claimed  this  would  result  in  death  since  whoever  got  the  check  would 
steal  the  entire  amount  and  either  skip  town  or  kill  the  others  for  their  shares. 

For  this  reason  all  agreed  that  such  a plan  would  never  work.  Instead,  each 
preferred  to  go  off  and  build  their  own  place. 

The  residents  were  eventually  dislodged  by  a police  patrol.  A number  won 
indemnifications  for  themselves  and  even  for  family  members  who  never  lived 
in  the  building.  Nonetheless,  people  talked  about  this  money  as  if  it  were 
cursed.  They  argued  that  it  was  impossible  to  hold  on  to,  that  it  caused  death, 
destruction,  and  divorce,  and  that  their  neighbors  wanted  to  rob  them  of  it.  But 
most  agreed  that  one  way,  and  perhaps  the  only  way,  to  hold  on  to  money  was 
to  buy  a house.  As  Dona  Pio  told  me,  she  was  one  of  two  residents  in  her  build- 
ing on  the  Ladeira  do  Mijo  able  to  buy  a house  upon  leaving  the  Pelourinho. 

She  explained  that  the  previous  owner  told  her  it  was  65,000  cruzeiros. 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


84 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


“[...]  mas  meu  dinheiro  demorou  uns  15  dias  para  sair  e quando  voltei  para  pagar 
o homem — que  eu  rinha  visto  a casa  e eu  disse  ao  dono  que  quis,  que  fa  pagar  ele 
quando  eu  recebia  meu  dinheiro  ele  disse  ‘agora  e 80,000.’  Por  causa  da  inflacao 
que  foi  na  epoca  do  cruzeiro  e as  coisas  subiam  toda  semana.  Mas  o que  eu  fiz  era 
meter  a mao  no  bolso.  Peguei  esse  80,000.” 

“A  senhora  recebeu  mais  de  80,000  do  governo?”  interrompe  o Joao. 

“Recebi.  Sim.  [nodding  her  head  a lot,  but  matter-of-factly]  E os  outros,  que 
colocaram  o dinheiro  na  poupan^a.  Hoje,  nao  tern  nada.  Foram  mexendo,  foram 
pegando  para  comer  e [...].” 

[(...)“but  my  money  took  15  days  to  be  paid  and  when  I went  back  to  pay  the 
man — you  see.  I’d  seen  the  house  and  told  the  owner  that  I’d  pay  him  when  my 
indemnification  came  out,  he  was  like  ‘Now  it’s  80,000.’  Because  it  was  the  days 
of  the  cruzeiro  and  inflation  made  it  go  up.  But  what  I did  was  stick  my  hand  in 
my  pocket.  I got  that  80,000.” 

“Ma’am,  you  received  80,000  from  the  government?”  interrupts  John. 

“Yes  I did.  And  the  others,  those  who  put  their  money  in  savings  accounts. 
Today  they  have  nothing.  They  went  and  touched  their  money,  taking  out  some 
to  eat,  and  (...).”] 

As  we  shall  see  below,  families  able  to  hold  on  to  money  and  purchase  prop- 
ern" in  far-off  neighborhoods  have  played  a significant  role  in  a general  appreci- 
ation of  the  restored  Pelourinho  in  working-class  Salvador.  But  for  the  moment 
it  is  worthwhile  to  focus  on  the  effects  of  the  indemnification  process. 

On  13  May  1999,  a resident  I call  Cabore  responded  to  my  question  about 
who  it  was  who  received  indemnifications  and  of  what  size,  with  the  claim  that, 

John,  aqui  tern  cinco  tipos  de  pessoas  que  recebe  a grana.  Primeiro,  rem  os  sad. 
Depois  vem  o pessoal  que  nunca  nem  pisou  seus  pes  aqui  e vem  de  Brasilia,  do 
interior,  para  assinar  [the  indemnification  agreement  with  IPAC];  o pessoal  que 
vende  drogas  e esta  quebrado,  querendo  pegar  nessa  grana  para  levantar  seu  guia 
de  novo;  o pessoal  que  esta  devendo  seu  advogado;  e por  final  quern  nao  tern  onde 
morar  mas  nao  aguenta  mais  morar  nesta  bagun9a,  nao  quer  os  filhos  no  meio  das 
covardias  que  rolam  aqui. 

[John,  there  are  five  wpes  of  people  here  who  receive  money.  First,  there  are 
crackheads.  Then  there  are  those  who’ve  never  even  set  foot  here  and  come  from 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  85 

Brasilia,  from  the  countryside  in  order  to  sign  (the  indemnihcation  agreement 
with  IPAC).  Then  there  are  the  drug  traffickers  whose  business  is  bad  who  want 
to  get  a hold  of  some  capital  to  set  themselves  up  again.  Then  there  are  those  who 
owe  their  lawyers.  And  finally,  there  are  those  who  don’t  have  anywhere  else  to  live 
and  don’t  want  to  stay  in  the  middle  of  these  dirty  dealings  any  more.] 

The  word  sad  is  slang  for  a crack  cocaine  abuser.  And  as  should  be  clear 
from  Cabore’s  statement,  he,  like  his  neighbors,  painted  a picture  of  a neigh- 
borhood faced  with  a lack  of  solidarity,  people  who  engaged  in  illegal  activi- 
ties, and  those  who  struggled  to  leave.  Cabore  made  this  statement  about 
“Pelourinho  types”  in  relation  to  indemnifications.  For  Cabore,  the  struggle 
to  receive  state  monies,  or  the  choice  of  not  receiving  and  instead  facing  police 
violence  and  eviction,  defines  the  people  of  the  Pelourinho.  But  it  does  much 
more  than  establish  a population  as  a group  that  “corre  atras”  (“chases  after”) 
indemnifications.  It  delineates  attitudes  toward  indemnification  in  a manner 
that  provides  a taxonomy  for  differentiating  the  group.  This  man  who  has 
lived  his  adult  life  in  the  city  center  creates  an  array  of  types  around  indem- 
nification that  thus  becomes  a diacritic  for  differentiating  people  by  defining 
their  morality  in  relation  to  cash.  There  are  hardworking  people  who  just 
want  the  money  so  as  to  escape  the  neighborhood’s  dangers.  And  there  are 
those  who  owe  money  and  treat  the  apparent  largesse  as  a source  of  liquidity. 

There  are  the  failed  dealers  unable  to  protect  their  capital  and  hence  unable  to 
finance  future  business  opportunities.  And  finally,  before  and  below  all  other 
human  types,  are  the  sads. 

Indemnification  allows  for  the  differentiation  of  these  people  into  not- 
quite-ideal  types.  That  money  allows  for  the  separation  of  orders  of  human- 
ity is  not  novel.  But  what  is  new  is  the  extent  to  which  money,  rather  than 
functioning  simply  as  an  objectifying  and  homogenizing  force,  permits  also 
the  narration  and  analysis  of  this  process.  And  as  the  following  section  will 
demonstrate,  it  is  not  just  money’s  function,  but  its  form  that  brings  to  the 
fore  these  analyses  of  Pelourinho  social  life  and  historical  process. 

Defetishization:  remembering  and  analyzing  indemnification 

Money  has  come  to  play  a critical  role  in  the  constitution  of  the  contemporary 
Pelourinho  community  and  hence  in  defining  interpersonal  relations.  This  has 
happened  not  only  in  relation  to  the  filters  provided  by  memories  and  the  bitter 
divisions  among  residents  who  received,  or  failed  to  receive,  monies.  Rather,  in 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


86 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


the  struggle  to  put  together  a cultural  heritage  center,  to  expel  the  majority  of 
that  neighborhood’s  seemingly  unruly  poptilation,  and  to  do  so  by  exchanging 
money  for  their  personal  spaces,  the  State  Government  of  Bahia  managed  to 
create  admittedly  complex  forms  of  solidarity.  This  is  not  to  say  that  the  com- 
modification of  PeloLirinho  residents’  everyday  habits  during  this  process  did 
not  result  in  a variety  of  dislocations  and  feelings  of  estrangement  among  those 
subject  to  the  process.  Rather,  it  is  to  claim  that  via  this  process  of  reifying  social 
relations  as  things  certain  new  conceptions  of  community  and  identity  were  put 
together  in  the  terrain  of  state-citizen  exchanges. 

One  way  to  understand  what  happened  is  to  look  closely  at  the  uses  to 
which  money  is  put.  I do  not  mean  its  deployment  in  the  purchase  of  goods, 
but  rather,  following  Eiss,  its  function  as  a symbol  circulated  among  people. 
For  example,  a former  prostitute  I call  Dinda,  now  married  to  a retired  police- 
man and  living  in  a home  in  the  suburb  of  Boa  Vista  do  Lobato,  told  me. 

What  they’re  really  doing  is  paying  us  for  our  “pessoa”  [“personhood”].  IPAC 
would  go  and  check  us  out  and  then  decide  what  we’re  going  to  get.  Every  time  I 
look  at  my  house  now  I am  content.  I know  that  I was  smart  enough  to  divide  up 
my  family  and  make  everyone  eighteen  or  older  receive  a separate  indemnification 
as  a “chefe  de  familia”  [“head  of  household”].  Then  we  put  them  together  and 
bought  this  place.  I paid  9000  [cruzeiro^  to  a mason  to  erect  the  “laje”  [“second 
floor”]  you  see  there  and  that’s  where  my  sons  live  with  their  families.  Every  time 
I look  at  this  house  I know  that  I was  smart  enough  to  understand  what  IPAC 
was  doing  with  indemnification.  They  didn’t  want  to  help  us.  They  never  help  the 
poor.  But  I was  smart  enough  to  help  myself  and  I convinced  them  that  I was  the 
right  type  to  receive  [adequate  government  monies]. 

Dona  Dinda  claims  to  be  able  to  perceive  much  by  looking  at  her  house, 
a symbol  and  a property  she  bought  with  indemnification  money.  This  com- 
modity, purchased  with  cash  money,  becomes  a symbol  in  the  account  above 
of  her  ability  to  see  through  the  historical  process  of  indemnification.  This 
knowledge  of  what  happened  complements  what  she  presents  retrospectively 
as  a similar  ability  to  understand,  at  the  time  of  indemnification,  the  moral 
criteria  on  which  IPAC  paid  out  monies.  Dona  Dinda  told  me  she  argued 
that  she  was  a mother,  a head  of  household,  and  an  upstanding  member  of 
the  community  who  rented  out  rooms,  took  in  wash,  and  prepared  meals  for 
neighbors.  By  presenting  herself  in  a vocabulary  readily  understandable  to 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


87 


social  scientists,  who  usually  recognized  in  discussions  with  me  the  impor- 
tance of  what  they  called  the  Pelourinho’s  “informal”  economy,  Dinda  com- 
bined economics  and  morality  to  argue  for  inclusion  in  payments.  And  her 
way  of  tracking  the  material  results  of  this  history  of  her  influencing  of  gov- 
ernment policy  is  a glance  at  the  home  that  she  associates  with  money. 

Significantly,  Dona  Dinda  argued  to  me  on  many  an  occasion  that  she 
felt  at  home  in  her  new  neighborhood  because  it  was  filled  with  former 
Pelourinho  neighbors  as  well  as  people  who  never  lived  downtown  but  who, 
nonetheless,  “respect  me  because  they  know  me  from  the  ‘mangue’  [‘red-light 
zone’].  They  know  that  I bought  my  house  with  money  the  state  paid  me  for 
my  suffering  there,  downtown.”  Here  she  makes  clear  the  importance  of  the 
Pelourinho  as  red-light  zone  in  mid-twentieth-century  Bahian  self-represen- 
tations, and  hence  the  power  of  the  people  who  controlled  its  brothels,  streets, 
stores,  numbers  operations,  and  drug-dealing  locations.  Similarly,  whenever 
I visited  Salvador’s  prison  I noted  that  inmates  from  downtown  earned  respect 
from  those  from  peripheral  areas,  in  part  due  to  these  people’s  involvement  in 
the  circulation  of  products,  ideas,  and  news  throughout  the  city  of  Salvador. 

Dinda,  who  considers  herself  an  upstanding  citizen  and  opposes  the  prac- 
tices that  lead  many  to  serve  time  in  Salvador’s  jails,  bragged  to  me  that  her 
son  had  opened  up  a Bar  do  Reggae  in  her  new  neighborhood.  A Bar  do 
Reggae  is  significant  because  Salvador’s  first  reggae  bars  were  established  in 
the  Pelourinho  to  celebrate  a marginalized  musical  form  much  liked  by  its 
residents.  They  were  much  maligned  by  IPAC,  middle-class  visitors  scared  of 
black  youth,  and  hence  the  police  (Sansone,  Blackness',  “O  Pelourinho”).  The 
spread  of  reggae  bars  is  thus  a diffusion  of  Pelourinho-based  practices. 

Through  the  diffusion  of  the  people,  and  the  practices,  of  the  Pelourinho 
the  state  contributed  inadvertently  to  the  memorialization  of  the  pre-restora- 
tion historical  center.  But  this  argument  is  not  simply  a demographic.  Rather, 
it  is  about  ways  of  analyzing  the  world.  The  same  well-known  and  highly 
symbolic  (as  resistant,  as  black,  and  as  marginal yts.  essential  to  the  city’s  com- 
merce in  ideas  and  money)  people  who  were  removed  from  the  city  center  on 
the  basis  of  indemnification  came  to  analyze  this  process  through  the  idiom 
of  indemnification  and  the  token  of  money.  Thus  their  understanding  of 
state  power  woven  around  the  expressive  culture  of  Afro-descendent  people 
as  part  of  a UNESCO-inspired  heritage  development  project  emanated  from 
that  state’s  mode  of  dislodging  them.  And  even  as  they  were  removed  their 
neighborhood  came  to  grow  even  more  in  popular  consciousness  throughout 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


88 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Salvador.  This  took  place  due  to  former  residents’  dispersal  throughout  the 
city  and  in  terms  of  experience  as  these  people  carried  with  them  the  knowl- 
edge oi  hghting  for  indemnification  that  generated  in  turn  shrewd  analyses 
ot  the  operations  of  their  state  government  around  territory,  race,  and  their 
everyday  habits,  or  what  IPAC  defined  as  Afro-Bahian  culture. 

A scene  in  June  of  1999  in  the  building  on  Saldanha  da  Gama  Street  rein- 
forces this  contention.  Visiting,  I was  surprised  to  find  three  normally  absti- 
nent residents  using  powdered  cocaine.  They  were  embarrassed  as  they  had, 
as  a group,  often  condemned  such  behavior.  One  looked  at  me  and  began  to 
justify  his  actions: 

Look  what  were  doing  with  IPAC’s  money.  I mean  our  money.  We  earned  it  by 
caring  for  these  buildings  while  “gente”  [“people”]  turned  their  backs  on  us  and 
the  historical  center.  And  we  answered  all  those  stupid  questions  for  years  by  the 
IPAC  guys  wanting  to  figure  out  how  much  to  pay  us  to  get  out.  We  also  deserve 
it  for  being  the  historical  center.  We  are  the  historical  center.  And  what  we  get  for 
being  patrimony  is  this  shit.  Cocaine.  Its  vice,  it’s  ruin,  and  it’s  death.  It’s  a drug. 

I know  that.  But  IPAC  is  like  this  [rolled  up]  bill  I’m  using  to  snort.  It’s  the  road 
to  perdition.  It’s  the  funnel  that  allows  us  to  experience  that  which  they  want  for 
us  but  which  we  know  is  wrong. 

In  an  important  transposition,  the  pink  R$10  that  the  men  employed  to 
ingest  cocaine  became  a symbol  of  the  facilitation  of  residents’  ill-conceived 
behavior.  The  bit  of  money  itself  came  to  define  the  talk  of  immorality  and 
unhealthy  temptation  that  residents  used  to  represent  IPAC’s  unhealthy  “car- 
rot,” as  they  called  it,  dangled  so  as  to  dislodge  them.  Thus,  even  as  money 
ripped  apart  the  community,  its  materiality  helped  residents  represent  this  pro- 
cess as  immoral,  or  at  very  least  it  provided  an  excuse  for  their  illegal  activities. 
They  were  able  to  mark  its  historical  unfolding  through  such  symbols  of  cor- 
ruption even  as  they  found  themselves,  like  these  men  guiltily  abusing  cocaine, 
embroiled  in  and  unable  to  escape  them.  And  as  this  process  pushed  people 
out  of  the  Pelourinho,  their  analyses  of  IPAC,  and  by  extension  their  state  in 
general,  became  a widely  diffused  aspect  of  working-class  discourse  in  Salvador. 

I will  not  detail  how  Pelourinho  residents’  claims  about  state  power  were 
received  and  reinflected  in  the  neighborhoods  to  which  they  moved.  Rather, 
I emphasize  simply  that  the  interpretations  forged  in  the  Pelourinho  traveled 
throughout  the  city  and  they  did  so  in  large  part  due  to  residents’  discussion  of. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  89 

and  experiences  with,  money  paid  by  their  state  in  exchange  for  their  domestic 
spaces.  The  materiality  of  money  in  this  process  is  reinforced  by  a final  example. 

One  night  in  June  of  1999,  as  I sat  at  the  tables  set  up  by  the  beer  sellers 
on  the  Pelourinhos  Ladeira  da  Pra^a,  a black  Mercedes  roared  up  and  a well- 
dressed  man  jumped  out.  He  sat  down  at  the  edge  of  our  group  and  engaged 
me  in  conversation.  I did  not  speak  much,  wary  of  this  drunk  man  driving  an 
expensive  car  on  a street  known  for  drug  dealing.  But  one  of  my  companions 
looked  up  from  conversation  and  said,  “Alligator!  How  ya  doing?  What  brings 
you  down  here  to  the  ghetto?!?!”  as  the  two  clapped  one  another  on  the  back. 

The  interloper  was  the  producer  of  one  of  Brazil’s  best-known  musical  groups 
and  he  and  my  friend  told  me  they  knew  one  another  from  the  “old  days”  of 
the  Maciel.  The  producer  offered  to  buy  us  a round  of  beer  but  my  companion 
declined,  standing  up  and  pulling  a R$  1 0 bill  from  his  pocket.  He  announced, 

“Here  it  is.  My  last  bit  of  cash  from  IPAC.  You,  Alligator,  who  know  me  ‘da 
antiguidade’  [‘from  the  old  days’l,  know  what  I suffered  through  to  earn  this. 

Let  me  buy  you  a drink  and  let’s  not  forget  what  it  is  to  be  from  the  Maciel.” 

This  claim  is  quite  extraordinary  in  the  extent  to  which  it  encourages 
communion  between  an  impoverished  resident  and  a producer  who,  before 
he  became  a success,  frequented  the  Maciel.  And  the  sign  of  the  now  quite 
different  men’s  mutual  experiences,  and  of  the  role  of  analysis  of  state-directed 
practices  in  this  recognition  of  common  ground,  was  a R$  1 0 bill  that  would 
purchase  a libation  to  be  consumed  communally.  Yet  the  marking  of  the  bill 
as  special  suggests  that  its  power  is  not  generalized,  homogenized,  and  a func- 
tion of  the  goods  and  services  it  may  purchase  as  an  ostensibly  neutral  arbiter 
of  value  or  price.  By  means  of  this  material  token  my  friend  materialized  his 
link  to  people  that  most  Brazilians  would  be  hard  pressed  to  imagine  would 
have  been  regulars  in  the  old  Maciel  and  would  spend  their  nights  at  the  end 
of  the  1 990s  cruising  the  stigmatized  28th  of  September.  The  knowledge  prac- 
tices developed  in  the  Maciel/Pelourinho  were  exported  to  far-off  neighbor- 
hoods via  the  state-directed  indemnification  of  the  Pelourinho  residents.  But 
it  also  suggests  the  extent  to  which  the  use  of  money  instantiates  a memory  of 
this  process  and  hence  recognition  of  what  the  Pelourinho  is,  and  was.  Money 
is  thus  a mnemonic  that  carries  with  it  traces  of  past  lives  in  the  Pelourinho. 

Conclusion 

The  valorizing — some  would  say  fetishizing — of  moral  attributes  and  living 
spaces  established  by  IPAC  in  the  1990s,  a form  of  “pricing  the  planet”  with  a 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


90 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


nLimber  of  problematic  implications,  nonetheless  resulted  in  a critical  perspec- 
tive on  this  process  on  the  part  of  those  subject  to  it.  Residents  who  managed 
to  stay  on  after  the  1 992  reforms,  either  by  resisting  or  accommodating  their 
state,  have  come  not  only  to  constitute  themselves  as  a community  in  great  part 
through  talk  of  money,  but  also  to  read  this  process  as  a historical  unfolding. 
And  they  do  so  on  the  basis  of  such  money.  Money  becomes  a material  sign 
of  their  struggle  to  understand  what  their  state  is  working  to  produce  in  the 
Pelourinho  through  the  banishment  of  most  of  the  population  to  outlying  areas 
and  the  careful  celebration  and  archiving  of  aspects  of  their  everyday  lives.  In 
other  words,  for  the  most  part  IPAC  has  replaced  Afro-Bahians  with  represen- 
tations of  these  same  people’s  former  lives  in  the  historical  center.  Yet  this  is  a 
conclusion  that  is  fairly  clear  to  those  involved  in  the  process. 

By  and  large  the  hundreds  of  residents  of  the  Pelourinho  with  whom  I 
have  lived  and  worked  for  more  than  a decade  manage  to  produce  a remark- 
ably sophisticated  reading  of  state  power  and,  especially,  the  actions  of  IPAC. 
And  one  of  the  tools  for  doing  so  is  money.  This  money  allows  them,  para- 
doxically, to  defetishize  the  role  of  the  very  medium — money — that  induced 
a majority  of  them  to  leave  their  homes  in  the  city  center.  Today  they  return 
to  sell  wares,  look  for  work,  visit  friends  and  family,  and  to  enjoy  themselves, 
often  at  the  original  Bar  do  Reggae  located  in  the  Pelourinho.  With  them 
come  thousands  of  similarly  underemployed,  Afro-descendent,  and  often 
angry  youth  who  desire  the  symbols  of  global  consumption  available  in  the 
Pelourinho  (Sansone).  Yet  money  as  employed  by  the  state  to  bring  about  this 
conjuncture  contains  a biography  and  carries  traces  of  its  workings  and  sym- 
bolic re-appropriations  by  common  people  (Eiss).  This  money  spread  the  resi- 
dents of  the  Pelourinho  out  all  over  Salvador,  and  even  the  interior  of  Bahia. 
Many,  like  Dona  Dinda,  started  bars  do  reggae  in  their  neighborhoods.  And 
they  continue  to  enlist  new  neighbors  to  head  back  downtown  with  them. 

Thus  the  reading  of  money  in  the  Pelourinho  is  not  just  a matter  of  rich  and 
poor,  of  who  has  money  and  who  does  not.  It  is  rather,  as  in  Cabore’s  hands 
when  he  constructs  a typology  of  Pelourinho  types  around  money,  an  argument 
about  the  ways  that  money  responds  to  people’s  abilities,  or  inability,  to  work 
the  system.  Money  is  thus  an  arbiter  of  abilities.  But  it  is  something  more. 
Although  configured  as  essentially  unjust  during  the  removal  of  people  in  the 
1 990s,  by  the  first  years  of  the  new  millennium  money  came  to  be  understood 
as  a form  of  understanding  the  state’s  logic.  And  it  did  so  through  its  very  mate- 
riality and  its  ability  to  conjure  up  images  through  signs  of  its  own  materiality. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  91 

As  the  discussion  of  bills  itself  indicates,  as  a bearer  of  supposedly  abstract  or 
objectified  value,  money  is  reinterpreted  by  people  as  a sign  of  particular  his- 
tories of  struggle,  popular  agency,  and  reinflection  of  government  programs. 

Perhaps  this  continual  resignification  of  money  will  work  to  provide  not  just 
new  interpretations  of  state  practices,  but  forms  of  modifying  those  policies  that 
might,  in  the  future,  prevent  the  removal  of  another  4000  people  from  spaces 
supposedly  dedicated  to  the  shared  heritage  of  the  Brazilian  nation. 


Works  Cited 

Appadurai,  Arjun,  ed.  The  Social  Life  of  Things:  Commodities  in  Cultural  Perspective.  New  York: 
Cambridge  UP,  1986.  Print. 

Collins,  John.  “Culture,  Content,  and  the  Enclosure  of  Human  Being:  UNESCO’s  ‘Intangible’ 
Heritage  in  the  New  Millennium.”  Radical  History  Review  109  (201 1):  121-135. 

. The  Revolt  of  the  Saints:  Memory  and  Redemption  in  the  Twilight  of  Brazilian  ‘Racial 

Democracy  ”T>\xr\\zm:  Duke  UP.  Forthcoming. 

. ‘“X  Marks  the  Future  of  Brazil’:  Protestant  Ethics  and  Bedeviling  Mixtures  in  a 

Brazilian  Cultural  Heritage  Center.”  Off  Stage/On  Display:  Intimacy  and  Ethnography  in  an 
Age  of  Public  Culture.  Stanford:  Stanford  UP,  2004.  192-221.  Print. 

Comaroff,  John,  and  Jean  Comaroff  Ethnography  and  the  Historical  Imagination.  Boulder: 
Westview,  1992.  Print. 

Eiss,  Paul.  “Money,  Meat  and  the  Memory  in  Tetiz,  Yucatan.”  Cultural  Anthropology  17.3 
(2002):  291-330.  Print. 

Gudeman,  Stephen.  The  Anthropology  of  Economy,  Community,  Market  and  Culture.  Malden, 
MA:  BlacWell,  2001.  Print. 

Guyer,  Jane.  Marginal  Gains:  Monetary  Transactions  in  Atlantic  Africa.  Chicago:  U of  Chicago 
P,  2004.  Print. 

Hacking,  Ian.  The  Social  Construction  Cambridge:  Harvard  UP,  2000.  Print. 

Lemon,  Alaina.  ‘“Your  Eyes  are  Like  Green  Dollars’:  Counterfeit  Cash,  National  Substance  and 
Currency  Apartheid  in  1990s  Russia.”  Cultural  Anthropology  13.1  (1998):  22-55.  Print. 

Maurer,  Bill.  “Chrysography:  Substance  and  Effect.”  Asia  Pacific  Journal  of  Anthropology  3.1 
(2002):  49-74.  Print. 

Parry,  Jonathan,  and  Maurice  Bloch,  eds.  Money  and  the  Morality  of  Exchange.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  UP,  1989.  Print. 

Rabinow,  Paul.  “Representations  are  Social  Facts:  Modernity  and  Postmodernity  in 
Anthropology.”  Writing  Culture:  The  Poetics  and  Politics  of  Ethnography.  Berkeley:  U of 
California  P,  1986.  234-261.  Print. 

Sansone,  Livio.  Blackness  without  Ethnicity:  Constructing  Race  in  Brazil.  New  York:  Palgrave 
Macmillan,  2003.  Print. 

. “O  Pelourinho  dos  jovens  negro-mestigos  de  classe  baixa  da  Grande  Salvador.”  Pelo 

peld:  Historia,  Cultura  e cidade.  Salvador:  EDUFBA,  1995.  59-70.  Print. 

Scott,  David.  Refashioning  Eutures.  Princeton:  Princeton  UP,  1999.  Print. 


JOHN  F.  COLLINS 


92 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


John  F.  Collins  received  his  PhD  from  the  University  of  Michigan  in  2003  and  is  associate 
professor  of  anthropology  at  Queens  College  and  the  Graduate  Center  of  the  City 
University  of  New  York.  His  first  book,  The  Revolt  of  the  Saints:  Memory  and  Redemption 
in  the  Twilight  of  Brazilian  "Racial  Democracy"  is  forthcoming  from  Duke  University 
Press.  He  is  currently  at  work  on  new  projects  on  the  extinguishing  of  the  slave  trade  in 
nineteenth-century  Brazil  and  the  cultural  politics  of  deer  hunting  in  the  modern  United 
States.  Please  do  not  hesitate  to  contact  the  author  with  comments  or  suggestions  at  john. 
collins@qc.cuny.edu 


A procissao  do  Senhor  dos  Passes  da  Sapataria: 
Fungao  economica  e reorganizagao  da  ordem  social 


Maria  Margarida  Paes  Lobo  Mascarenhas 


Abstract.  The  Catholic  procession  of  Nosso  Senhor  dos  Passos  of  Sapataria 
in  Lisbon  is  a yearly  ceremony  of  penitence  and  prayer  for  the  local 
community.  This  article  shows  how  money,  exchange,  and  the  capitalization 
of  donations  are  integral  to  the  organization  of  this  ceremony,  building  an 
interrelation  between  religious  and  economic  values. 


O entendimento  do  comportamento  social,  enquanto  forma  de  interaegao  ou 
cultura,  conduz  a uma  visao  dinamica  do  modo  como  os  indivfduos  integra- 
dos  em  grupos  vao  resolvendo  os  problemas  com  que  se  deparam,  numa  adap- 
ta9ao  as  mudangas  temporals  sofridas  pela  conjuntura  social.  E neste  contexto 
teorico  que  se  justifica  esta  analise  da  fun^ao  economica  do  ritual  da  procissao 
do  Senhor  dos  Passos  da  Sapataria,  bem  como  do  seu  sistema  de  prestagao  de 
dadivas.  Os  dados  utilizados  foram  obtidos  atraves  de  entrevistas,  conversas 
informais,  da  observaq:ao  directa  dos  preparativos  e dos  ritos  propriamente 
ditos,  com  base  em  apoio  teorico  obtido  atraves  de  bibliografia. 

A freguesia  da  Sapataria  pertence  ao  Concelho  de  Sobral  de  Monte  Agrago, 
o mais  pequeno  do  distrito  de  Lisboa,  e Integra  a denominada  regiao  Oeste. 
Neste  contexto,  realiza-se  anualmente  no  quarto  Domingo  da  Quaresma, 
desde  ha  cerca  de  400  anos,  a procissao  do  Senhor  dos  Passos,  numa  reconsti- 
tui9ao  dos  Passos  do  Calvario  (O  trabalho  e as  tradigoes...  453). 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23124  (2012):  93-102. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


f 


94  PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 

No  que  respeita  a inten^ao  deste  ritual,  ficou  apurado  que  em  tempos  a 
comiinidade  da  Sapataria  pretenderia  obter  a chuva  indispensavel  a uma  agri- 
ciiltiira  de  siibsistencia,  acreditando,  com  estes  ritos,  suprir  as  necessidades 
economicas  dos  produtores.  Com  o inkio  da  economia  de  mercado,  a maior 
parte  dos  habitantes  da  Sapataria,  alguns  proprietarios,  otitros  trabalhadores 
agn'colas  assalariados,  ainda  se  encontravam  totalmente  dependentes  da  terra 
e,  por  conseqtiencia,  do  clima.  Hoje,  a popula^ao  ja  nao  vive  da  agricultura 
(sobretudo  da  de  siibsistencia),  tendo-se  desenvolvido  outros  sectores  de  pro- 
du^ao  (industrial,  sobretudo  de  transforma^ao  de  produtos  agricolas  e pecua- 
rios),  assim  como  o comercial,  numa  modifica^ao  da  conjuntura  economica, 
o que  produziu,  como  e evidente,  altera^oes  sociais  com  consequencias  no 
ambito  dos  rituais  desenvolvidos  pela  comunidade. 

O itinerario  deste  ritual  ci'clico  tern  sofrido  altera^oes,  consistindo  actual- 
mente  numa  volta  a igreja  e noutra  trajectoria  circular,  no  sentido  dos  pontei- 
ros  do  relogio,  que  dando  a volta  a freguesia  regressa  posteriormente  a igreja. 

A organiza^ao  do  ritual  e as  tarefas  respeitantes  a igreja  tern  sido  desem- 
penhadas  pelo  casal  constituido  pelo  sacristao  e sua  esposa,  fun^ao  passada  de 
gera^ao  em  gera^ao,  e por  uma  Comissao  Fabriqueira,  constitufda  por  quatro 
casais  com  tarefas  distribuidas  numa  divisao  sexual  do  trabalho — enquanto  os 
homens  se  responsabilizam  pela  gestao  financeira,  as  quatro  mulheres  com- 
pete a manuten^ao  da  igreja  ao  longo  de  todo  o ano,  no  que  respeita  a limpeza 
e as  flores.  Esta  comissao  tern  um  mandato  de  cinco  anos,  devendo  cada  casal 
que  sai  encontrar  outro  para  o substituir,  de  entre  os  parentes  e vizinhos. 

No  terceiro  domingo  da  Quaresma,  a Comissao  Fabriqueira  arranja  qua- 
tro homens  para  fazer  a “pedida”  (peditorio)  por  toda  a freguesia,  excepto  no 
lugar  de  Pero  Negro,  com  o qual  mantem  uma  grande  rivalidade,  estando  em 
disputa  o lugar  ideal  para  sede  da  freguesia. 

E na  “pedida”  que  os  homens  da  comunidade  que  pretendem  integrar  a i 
procissao  devem  fazer  um  donativo,  cujo  valor  mi'nimo  era  em  2002  de  7,5€, 
que  Ihes  concede  o titulo  de  mordomo,  recebendo  em  troca,  de  imediato,  um 
pacote  de  amendoas  de  200g;  o titulo  de  meio  mordomo  e obtido  pela  oferta 
de  metade  dessa  quantia,  recebendo  entao  lOOg  de  amendoas.  Todos  os  mor- 
domos  recebem,  ainda  hoje,  uma  opa  (capa)  roxa  e antigamente  quern  desse  o 
maior  donativo  tinha  a honra  de  levar  na  procissao  a vara  de  juiz,  mas  hoje  em  ^ 
dia  “ate  ja  e dificil  encontrar  quern  de.”  Todas  as  dadivas  sao  registadas  numa 
lista  com  referencia  ao  lugar,  ao  nome  do  ofertante  e respectivo  quantitativo 
recebido  pela  comissao. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


95 


Para  Maiiss,  a recusa  de  se  receber  mais  nao  e do  que  recusar  a alian^a  entre 
os  homens:  “[...]  les  echanges  de  cadeaux  entre  les  hommes,  [...]  incitent  [...] 
les  dieux  a etre  genereux  envers  eux”  (165). 

A contra-dadiva  das  amendoas,  que  so  e excep^ao  no  caso  das  ofertas  feitas 
por  promessa,  e realizada  “ha  um  numero  de  anos  desconhecidos,”  consti- 
tuindo  sem  diivida  uma  marca^ao  cerimonial  deste  ciclo,  intervindo  na  reite- 
ra^ao  periodica  das  rela^oes  sociais.  Leal  afirma-o:  “O  modo  como,  em  mui- 
tos  casos,  estas  dadivas  (refei^oes  cerimoniais)  se  estendem  informalmente  a 
outras  unidades  domesticas  de  parentes,  vizinhos  ou  amigos,  deve  ser  olhado 
a luz  da  mesma  perspectiva,  [...]  liga-se  tambem,  por  intermedio  do  compasso 
pascal,  a ideias  de  reafirma^ao  de  la^os  sociais  mais  amplos,  como  aqueles  que 
se  prendem  com  a perten9a  a comunidade”  (264). 

Para  alem  da  comissao,  o sacristao  e a mulher  tern  competencias  especi- 
ficas  neste  ritual,  tratando  de  todos  os  preparativos  de  4°  a 6^  feira  da  ultima 
semana,  nos  quais  se  incluem  o arranjo  dos  fatos  dos  anjinhos,  os  canticos  das 
virgens  e da  Veronica,  o tapar  dos  altares  com  panos  roxos,  o arranjo  ritual  das 
imagens,  bem  como  o “escangalhar”  da  igreja.^  Ao  sacristao  compete,  devido 
ao  seu  cargo,  dar  o no  ritual  na  tunica  do  Senhor  dos  Passos,  segundo  um 
saber  transmitido  pelo  antigo  sacristao,  pai  de  sua  mulher. 

No  proprio  dia  da  cerimonia,  na  estrada  a saida  do  adro  da  igreja,  sao 
erguidas  duas  tendas  toscas,  uma  de  venda  de  bebidas,  explorada  por  um 
particular,  que  no  caso  do  negocio  Ihe  render  devera  pagar  duas  mordomias 
(15€),  caso  contrario  so  paga  metade.  A segunda  tenda,  que  vende  produtos 
alimentares  (amendoas,  mel,  bolos),  e explorada  por  um  padeiro  da  regiao  a 
quern  compete  pagar  25€  pelo  espa^o  que  utiliza.^ 

Essa  mesma  manha  e aproveitada,  por  muitas  pessoas  das  redondezas,  para 
por  flores  e tratar  das  campas  no  cemiterio  da  freguesia,  localizado  por  detras 
da  igreja,  lugar  para  onde  se  dirigem  posteriormente,  a fim  de  fazer  o seu 
donativo  ao  Senhor  dos  Passos.  Estas  verbas  sao  recebidas  directamente  por 
um  dos  elementos  masculino  da  comissao,  que  regista  o nome  e o valor  da 
oferta,  retribuindo  com  um  pacote  de  1 OOg  de  amendoas  (a  excep^ao  das  ofer- 
tas feitas  devido  a promessa,  pois  estas  sao  ja  a contra  dadiva  do  favor  obtido). 
Ainda  na  parte  da  manha,  dois  mordomos  acompanhados  pelas  mulheres  da 
comissao,  juntamente  com  o sacristao  e a sua  mulher,  vao  “fazer  os  Passos.” 
Ramos  de  palmeira,  quadros  (com  pinturas  representando  os  Passos  do  Cal- 
vario)  retirados  das  paredes  da  igreja,  flores  para  enfeitar  e para  cada  Passo, 
uma  mesa  com  uma  jarra  de  flores  e uma  bandeja  para  receber  as  ofertas — sao 


maria  margarida  paes  lobo  mascarenhas 


96 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


estes  os  objectos  essenciais  para  a constru^ao  dos  sere  Passes.  Pelas  onze  boras 
da  manha,  seis  homens,  ja  com  as  suas  opas  (capas)  vestidas,  transportaram 
o andor  da  Senhora  das  Dores  para  um  local  previamente  preparado,  onde 
permanecera  escondido  ate  ao  sermao  do  Encontro,  enquanto  o sacristao  toca 
o sino  sem  parar  (e  um  saber  ritual,  “so  ele  toca  bem.”)  A passagem  do  andor, 
os  homens  descobrem  a cabe^a  e benzem-se.  Na  venda  dos  bolos,  tapam-nos 
com  lima  toalha  branca. 

A tarde,  por  volta  das  16  boras,  depois  da  missa,  o padre,  escolhido  pelo 
paroco  para  ser  o Pregador  deste  ritual,  inicia-o  com  o primeiro  sermao- 
— o Pretorio, — a que  se  segue  a procissao;  no  terceiro  Passo  o Pregador  faz  o 
segundo  sermao — o Encontro  (da  Senhora  das  Dores  com  o seu  filho) — e e um 
momento  de  enorme  dramatismo.  Apos  a reorganiza^ao  do  cortejo  e a passa- 
gem pelos  restantes  Passes,  a procissao  regressa  a igreja  para  o setimo  e ultimo 
Passo,  em  que  se  ouvira  o terceiro  sermao — o Calvario.  No  final  os  penitentes 
circulam  a volta  da  imagem  do  Senhor  dos  Passes,  fazendo  ofertas  em  dinheiro.^ 
Esta  apresenta^ao  de  caracter  etnografico  ja  possibilita  a analise  de  varias 
questoes  pertinentes,  de  entre  as  quais  se  salienta  a problematica  da  manu- 
ten^ao  do  ritual  ao  longo  de  centenas  de  anos.  Para  alem  da  fun^ao  essencial- 
mente  economica,  este  mantem-se,  por  um  lado,  pela  crenga  e necessidade 
de  satisfa^ao  de  promessas  e,  por  outro,  devido  ao  interesse  da  comunidade 
em  manter  esta  tradi^ao  antiquissima.  No  que  respeita  a cren^a,  que  tern  por 
base  a devo(;ao,  esta  e sustentada  por  ideias  de  perdao  e reconcilia^ao  com  a 
divindade,  num  processo  de  regenera^ao  espiritual.  Tambem  o ritual  afecta 
a rela(;ao  entre  o crente  e a divindade,  revestindo-a  de  afectividade,  como  se 
pode  verificar  pela  utiliza(;ao  de  expressoes  como:  a “roupinha  do  Senhor”  e 
o “vestidinho  de  sair,”  ao  referirem  as  vestes  para  serem  usadas  na  procissao 
pelas  imagens  do  Senhor  dos  Passos  e da  Senhora  das  Dores. 

A reformula^ao  permanente  das  normas,  numa  actualizaq:ao  indispensavel 
a continuidade  do  ritual  ao  longo  dos  anos,  e realizada  pela  mulher  do  sacris- 
tao, apesar  de  Ihe  competir  a manuten^ao  do  cumprimento  tradicional  dos 
ritos  e das  suas  interdigoes.^ 

A problematica  espa^o-tempo  e tambem  fundamental  para  esta  analise. 
Durante  todo  o dia,  sobretudo  na  parte  da  tarde,  o espa^o  onde  vai  passar  a 
procissao  sofre  uma  altera^ao,  transfigura-se.  Os  caminhos,  irreconhedveis 
com  a marca^ao  dos  Passos,  parecem  todos  convergir  para  a Sapataria,  na 
direc^ao  da  igreja,  tambem  esta  previamente  “desmanchada”  e preparada  para 
o ritual.  Podem-se  considerar  diversas  circularidades  em  todo  aquele  espa^o. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  97 

como;  a volta  a igreja;  a volta  a freguesia;  a volta  ao  andor;  a roda  do  circulo 
de  vizinhos,  para  realizar  as  pedidas  e constituir  nova  comissao. 

Tambem  e possiVel  ver  a circularidade  do  tempo,  na  repeti^ao  anual  da 
procissao.  O andar  de  todos  os  penitentes,  vestidos  de  cores  escuras  num  pro- 
cesso  de  identifica^ao  da  sua  dor  com  a da  divindade,  e cadenciado,  lento, 
compassado  pelo  som  da  banda  e pelo  toque  repetido  do  sino.  O ritual  e 
tempo  de  reencontro  de  parentes,  amigos  e vizinhos;  ha  uma  paragem  do 
quotidiano,  pois  as  rivalidades  sao  ignoradas  (tambem  ca  estao  as  gentes  de 
Pero  Negro)  e opera-se  como  que  uma  ruptura  nas  rela^oes  complementares 
entre  os  dois  sexos,  ficando  reservado  para  as  mulheres  o papel  de  penitentes 
ou  assistentes,  numa  clara  inversao  das  rela^oes  em  termos  de  unidade  domes- 
tica.^  Neste  tempo,  as  situa^oes  de  silencio  e evitamento  quotidiano  entre 
parentes  sao  anuladas  e substituidas  por  outras  opostas,  caracterizadas  pelo 
dialogo  e pela  aproxima^ao,  reformulando  as  rela^oes  socials. 

Tambem  e possiVel  analisar  o ritual  da  procissao  do  Senhor  dos  Passos 
segundo  a sua  fun^ao  economica,  fun^ao  esta  que  o ritual  sempre  teve  e ainda 
tern  hoje,  efectivamente:  se,  por  um  lado,  a Comissao  Fabriqueira  movimenta 
bens,  quer  monetarios,  quer  de  caracter  religioso,^  por  outro,  ela  propria 
angaria  dinheiro,  tanto  directamente  junto  dos  penitentes  e de  toda  a comu- 
nidade  (durante  a “pedida”  de  porta  em  porta),  como  recebendo-o  indirecta- 
mente  das  vendas.  Poder-se-ia  pensar  que  nao  ha  excedentes  desses  bens,  mas 
a situa9ao  e exactamente  a oposta,  pois  o objectivo  de  todas  as  comissoes  e 
conseguir  que  apos  as  despesas  pagas,  todos  os  anos,  haja  capital  que  possa  ser 
depositado  numa  institui^ao  bancaria,  a fim  de  que  possa  voltar,  mais  tarde,  a 
comunidade,  acrescido  de  juros,  sob  a forma  de  novos  bens  (arranjos  e obras 
de  manuten^ao  da  igreja).  Recorde-se  o significado  do  adjectivo  fabriqueiro: 

“[•••]  diz-se  da  igreja  que  tern  fabrica  de  sacristia  ou  de  igreja,  isto  e,  rendas 
aplicaveis  as  despesas  de  culto  e de  repara^oes”  (Machado  63) — e isto  mesmo 
que  acontece  na  Sapataria.  A comissao,  numa  fun^ao  inequivocamente  eco- 
nomica, obteve  no  ano  2000  um  lucro  de  2850€,  depois  de  pagar  todas  as 
despesas,  depositando  o dinheiro  num  banco,  a fim  de  render  juros. ^ 

Para  compreender  este  circuito,  e pertinente  questionar  se,  na  verdade,  sao 
so  os  habitantes  da  Sapataria  que  “mandam  na  sua  igreja,”  como  afirmam  o 
sacristao  e a mulher.  A investiga^ao  mostrou  que  o facto  de  o Paroco  nao  residir 
na  freguesia  contribui  em  muito  para  o seu  afastamento  da  comunidade,  tendo 
como  consequencia  directa  uma  desresponsabiliza^ao  da  igreja  sobretudo  em  ter- 
mos financeiros,  visto  o templo  ser  gerido  autonomamente  pela  Comissao  Fabri- 


maria  margarida  paes  lobo  mascarenhas 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


queim.  Esta  situa^ao  pode  ser  confirmada  pelo  paroco  da  freguesia,  aquando  da 
entrevista  que  Ihe  foi  feita,  escusando-se  a dar  informa^oes  acerca  de  um  ritual 
que  dizia  desconhecer  por  completo,  visto  nunca  ter  estado  presente.  Estas  afir- 
magoes  assiimem  particular  importancia  quando  se  sabe  que  este  mesmo  padre 
intervem  directamente  neste  ritual,  pois  estabelece  proibi^oes  (como  o afixar 
notas  na  veste  do  Senhor  dos  Passes),  obriga  a fazer  alteragoes  (como  a mudan^a 
da  ordem  no  desfile  das  alkias  religiosas)  e designa  o Pregador.  E evidente  que, 
desta  forma,  o Patriarcado  aproveita  todos  os  lucres  decorrentes  da  realiza<;ao 
da  procissao,  abstendo-se  de  participar  com  as  verbas  necessarias  a manuten^ao 
e obras  da  igreja  como  e da  sua  competencia:  “[•••]  em  80  anos,  so  uma  vez  foi 
precise  os  de  Lisboa  mandarem  dinheiro  para  ca,”  informou  o sacristao.^ 

Constata-se  deste  mode  que  este  ritual  nao  se  caracteriza  somente  por  uma 
economia  de  bens  simbolicos,  mas  tambem,  e sobretudo,  por  uma  economia 
mercantil:  a moeda  funciona  como  meio  de  pagamento,  medindo  o valor  dos 
bens  que  circulam  segundo  preq:os  que  constam  de  tabelas  (estas  estabelecem 
o custo  das  mordomias,  das  meias-mordomias  e do  direito  de  venda  das  comi- 
das  e bebidas),  com  a finalidade  da  obten^ao  de  lucre,  sendo  tudo  registado 
numa  contabilidade  organizada. 

Quanto  a verdadeira  razao  e ao  real  interesse  em  se  pertencer  a uma  Comis- 
sao  Eabriqueira,  o facto  e que,  sendo  da  sua  inteira  competencia  a gestao  dos 
fundos,  consoante  o capital  obtido  no  fim  de  cada  ano  e sobretudo  no  final  do 
mandate,  os  sens  membros  verao  o seu  valor  aferido  por  toda  a comunidade, 
forma  esta  de  reconhecimento  dos  indivfduos  socials,  a que  Bourdieu  denomi- 
nou  de  capital  simbolico:  “A  segunda  propriedade  correlativa  (da  economia  pre- 
-capitalista)  e a transfiguraQo  dos  actos  economicos  em  actos  simbolicos  [...]. 
Terceira  propriedade:  nesta  circula^ao  [...]  produz-se  e acumula-se  uma  forma 
particular  de  capital  a que  chamei  capital  simbolico  [...]”(132). 

Outro  dos  objectos  em  analise  deve  ser  o sistema  de  presta^ao  de  dadivas 
presente  neste  ritual;  veja-se  o que  nos  dizem:  Godelier  diz  que  “dar  e instituir 
simultaneamente  uma  dupla  relaQo  entre  quern  da  e quern  recebe.  Uma  rela^ao 
de  solidariedade  [...]  e uma  relaQo  de  superioridade.  [...]  [A]ssim  a dadiva  apro- 
xima  [...]  e afasta  (os  protagonistas)  socialmente”(21);  Godbout  acerca  do  valor 
da  dadiva  considera  que  este  e de  mVel  relacional  (por  oposiQo  ao  valor  de  uso  e 
de  troca) — “En  circulant,  le  don  enrichit  le  lieu  et  transforme  les  protagonistes. 
Le  don  contient  [...]  quelque  chose  de  plus  que  la  gratuite  essaie  de  nommer. 
[...]  La  plus-value  e’est  [...]  la  transformation  d’une  valeur  de  lieu  en  valeur 
d’echange”  (245).  O pagamento  de  promessas,  que  assume  inumeras  formas 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  99 

(dinheiro,  objectos  religiosos  ou  certos  sacrificios  como  fazer  o “perambulatio” 
descal^o)  e que  se  destina  a retribuir  uma  gra^a  concedida,  normalmente  em 
circunstancias  graves  da  vida,  insere-se  num  sistema  de  diVidas  que  nunca  pode- 
rao  deixar  de  ser  saldadas;  segundo  nos  informaram:  tern  que  ser,  e promessa. 

Mas  a verdade  e que,  na  pratica,  nem  sempre  se  observa  esta  obrigatoriedade, 
pois,  curiosamente,  muitas  promessas  nao  sao  cumpridas,  ficando  em  “diVida.” 

Nestes  casos,  por  vezes  sao  os  familiares  quern,  apos  a morte  dos  parentes  ou 
mesmo  em  vida  deles,  se  sentem  obrigados  a faze-lo,  como  que  numa  extensao 
das  rela^oes  familiares.  O paroco,  o mesmo  que  afirma  desconhecer  este  ritual, 
sugere  alternativas  ao  incumprimento  das  promessas  como  por  exemplo  o paga- 
mento  de  missas,  a compra  de  ex-votos  a igreja  (ve-se  que  o lucro  nao  esta  muito 
arredado  destas  sugestoes)  ou  a pratica  de  ora^oes. 

Podemos  considerar  aqui  duas  situa^oes  diferentes:  a primeira  e o paga- 
mento  da  promessa  que  fica  cumprido  no  momento  em  que  se  vai  na  pro- 
cissao;  a segunda  consiste  no  aluguer  dos  fatos  para  o ritual,  que  e feito  em 
moeda,  ao  pre^o  da  tabela  e que  no  futuro  sera  contabilizado,  devendo  tam- 
bem  concluir  a troca.  Mas,  na  verdade,  se  se  trata  de  uma  simples  rela^ao  de 
troca  (ainda  que  temporaria)  de  moeda  por  bens  (cargos  ou  fatos),  donde  vem 
a obrigatoriedade  de  se  receber  um  pacote  de  amendoas?  Porque  nao  basta  dar 
e receber  o que  esta  estabelecido?  As  amendoas  que  se  recebem  fazem  exceder 
os  termos  da  troca.  Nao  poderao  constituir  como  que  uma  mais-valia?  Neste 
caso  a rela^ao  nao  flea  equivalente  e se  o dador  recebe  mais  do  que  os  bens  que 
pagara,  fica  em  “diVida.”  Outra  das  hipoteses  e ser  necessario  receberem-se  as 
amendoas  pois  constituem  a verdadeira  contra-dadiva,  visto  que  os  fatos  tern 
de  ser  devolvidos.  Mas,  os  cargos  e as  honras  que  eles  trazem  aos  individuos  (o 
capital  simbolico)  nao  podem  ser  considerados  como  contra-dadivas?^ 

Quando  a comissao  realiza  a pedida  (peditorio),  nao  o faz  na  aldeia  de 
Pero  Negro  devido  a um  antigo  litigio  acerca  da  localiza^ao  da  sede  da  fregue- 
sia,  situada  na  Sapataria.  Mas,  sendo  o objectivo  a angaria^ao  de  fundos,  por- 
que nao  os  irao  ai  recolher?  Sera  porque  a comunidade  da  Sapataria  nao  quer 
aceitar  o dinheiro  ou  nao  quer  ser  obrigada  a retribuir  a oferta?  E interessante 
analisar  o que  acontece  por  ocasiao  das  Festas  de  Verao  de  Pero  Negro,  altura 
em  que  a aldeia  necessita  para  uma  procissao  de  pedir  emprestadas  a Sapataria 
algumas  alfaias  religiosas,  solicita^ao  que  e aceite  anualmente,  talvez  devido  a 
serem  objectos  sagrados,  contrariamente  ao  dinheiro  recebido  na  colecta  para 
a procissao  do  Senhor  dos  Passos.  Pensamos  que  a comunidade  da  Sapata- 
ria cede  os  bens  (sagrados),  mas  nao  pretende  permitir  qualquer  retribui^ao 


MARIA  MARGARIDA  PAES  LOBO  MASCARENHAS 


100 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


aqiuindo  do  peditorio  para  o ritual.  Deste  modo,  obriga  Pero  Negro  a bear 
permanentemente  em  diVida,  acentuando  a ruptura  entre  as  duas  povoa^oes, 
como  que  numa  renova(^ao  da  rela^ao  de  rivalidade. 

Considere-se,  de  segiiida,  a divisao  social  do  trabalho,  uma  das  bases  fun- 
damentals da  ordem  social,  cuja  “verdadeira  fungao  e criar,  entre  duas  ou 
varias  pessoas,  um  sentimento  de  solidariedade”  (Durkheim  71).  Mas,  serao 
as  rela^oes  de  solidariedade  criadas  pelo  ritual  caracterizadas  pela  igualdade? 
Certamente  que  a resposta  e negativa.  Apesar  de  qualquer  individuo  poder 
integrar  a procissao  da  Sapataria,  a comunidade  de  Pero  Negro  nao  o pode 
fazer,  pois  nao  tern  possibilidade  de  adquirir  os  cargos  que  o permitem  e que 
dao  prestigio.^®  Ficam  assim  com  deficit  de  capital  social,  ou  seja,  permane- 
cem  numa  posi^ao  de  inferioridade  em  rela^ao  aos  habitantes  do  resto  da  fre- 
giiesia.  De  facto,  a igualdade  nao  e um  factor  que  esteja  presente  neste  ritual, 
pois  existe  uma  hierarquiza^ao  estabelecida  segundo  os  diversos  graus  do  saber 
ritual  e consoante  os  cargos  desempenhados.  Se,  por  um  lado,  os  mordomos 
proporcionam  a subsistencia  economica  do  ritual,  situando-se  na  base  da  hie- 
rarquia,  por  outro,  os  membros  da  Comissao  Fabriqueira  gerem  os  fundos  e 
velam  pela  manuten^ao  da  igreja  (segundo  uma  divisao  sexual  das  tarefas,  os 
homens  responsabilizam-se  pelo  dinheiro,  as  mulheres  pela  limpeza  da  igreja), 
mantendo-se  a meio  da  piramide  hierarquica.  Por  sen  lado,  o par  constituido 
pelo  sacristao  e stia  mulher,  ao  deterem  as  fungoes  principals,  ou  seja,  todo  o 
saber  e poder  ritual,  posiciona-se  no  topo  da  referida  hierarquia. 

Podemos  entao  extrair  algumas  conclusoes  desta  analise.  Ao  longo  deste  texto, 
foram  real<;adas  propositadamente  no^oes  como  diVida,  ruptura  e hierarquia,  pois 
a observa^ao  concreta  da  vida  social  permitiu  apercebermo-nos  nao  so  das  retri- 
bui^oes  mas  tambem  das  diVidas,  das  solidariedades,  e tambem  das  rupturas,  de 
determinadas  paridades,  porem  sobretudo  de  desigualdades  e hierarquias. 

Detectou-se  reciprocidade?  So  quando  havia  interesse  na  circula^ao  de 
pessoas  e bens.  Mauss,  nas  conclusoes  do  Ensaio  sobre  a dddiva,  referiu  as 
no(;6es  de  lucro  e interesse  material  como  factores  explicativos  da  circula^ao 
das  riquezas  (186),  o que  ja  Marx  e Engels  tinham  afirmado. 

O moderno  poder  de  Estado  e apenas  uma  comissao  que  administra  os  negocios 
comunitarios  de  toda  a classe  burguesa.  [...]  A burguesia,  la  onde  chegou  a domi- 
na^ao,  destruiu  todas  as  relates  feudais,  patriarcais,  idilicas  [...].  Resolveu  a digni- 
dade  pessoal  no  valor  da  troca,  e no  lugar  das  inumeras  liberdades  bem  adquiridas 
e certificadas  pos  a liberdade  unica,  sem  escrupulos  de  comercio.  (38-39) 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  101 

Segundo  esta  perspectiva,  as  rela^oes  economicas  de  liga^ao  ao  capital 
estao  subjacentes  a toda  a interac^ao  social,  mesmo  para  os  sistemas  de  presta- 
0es  de  dadivas,  em  que  o valor  de  troca  se  veio  j untar  ao  valor  de  uso. 

Segundo  Mauss,  “cada  mercadoria  so  tern  importancia  na  medida  em 
que  o seu  uso  e a base  de  um  valor  de  troca  e que  este  se  metamorfoseia 
em  dinheiro  que  produz  dinheiro,  em  capital”  (87).  A analise  do  ritual  da 
Sapataria  permite  verificar  as  trocas  economicas  com  liga9ao  ao  mercado  pre- 
sentes  no  sistema  de  presta<;ao  de  dadivas.  Sao  os  proprios  individuos  sociais 
quern  introduz  altera9oes  aos  seus  ritos,  que  se  deveriam  manter  inalteraveis, 
numa  manipula^ao  das  relates  sociais,  com  a finalidade  de  as  adaptar  as 
novas  estruturas  dominadas  pela  economia,  numa  reformula^ao  conjuntural 
que  vao  prolongando  ao  longo  do  tempo. 


Notes 

* Os  tradicionais  sete  anjos  desta  procissao  sao  hoje  em  mimero  indeterminado,  apre- 
sentando-se  acompanhados  por  homens,  pais,  avos,  tios  ou  padrinhos.  Nesta  regiao  e comum  o 
compadrio  como  forma  de  reafirma^ao  dos  vmculos  de  parentesco  ou  estabelecimento  de  fortes 
la(;os  sociais  entre  parentes  e vizinhos. 

^ Segundo  alguns  informantes,  a generalidade  das  pessoas  da  freguesia  so  come  amendoas 
naquele  dia,  nao  as  considerando  como  alimento  a ser  consumido  na  epoca  Pascal. 

^ O cortejo  integra,  com  lugar  reservado,  um  grupo  de  pessoas  que  prometeram  fazer  o Per- 
ambulatio  (percursoj  descal^as  e que  e normalmente  constituido  por  mulheres  idosas  e jovens 
maes  que  o fazem  transportando  os  filhos  nos  bravos. 

^ Aceita  raparigas  para  o papel  de  Virgens,  sem  indagar  se  elas  o sao,  condi^ao  antes  indis- 
pensavel,  o que  nao  acontece  hoje,  devido  a falta  de  jovens. 

^ Sobretudo  no  que  respeita  ao  transporte  das  alfaias  religiosas  durante  a procissao. 

^ Como  alfaias  religiosas  (objetos  em  ouro,  prata,  etc.)  que  Ihe  sao  entregues  como  contra- 
dadivas  de  promessas,  retribuindo  uma  graq:a  obtida. 

^ No  rol  das  despesas  estao  os  pagamentos  ao  Pregador,  a banda  (acrescido  de  um  lanche) 
e ao  sineiro,  para  alem  das  contra-dadivas  em  amendoas  (a  todos  os  mordomos,  meios-mor- 
domos,  anjinhos  e outros).  As  receitas  sao  provenientes  das  verbas  obtidas  pelo  pagamento  das 
promessas,  de  ex-votos,  da  doa^ao  de  objetos  diversos,  do  recebido  nas  pedidas  e ainda  do  apu- 
rado  pelo  “aluguer”  das  vendas  das  bebidas  e das  comidas. 

® O sacristao  refere-se  ao  Patriarcado  de  Lisboa,  pretendendo  mostrar  a independencia 
financeira  da  comunidade. 

^ Afirmaram-nos  que  ninguem  gostava  de  ser  meio-mordomo,  o que  e bastante  sintomatico 
do  interesse  dos  cargos. 

Devido  a nao  se  realizar  a pedida  em  Pero  Negro. 


maria  margarida  paes  lobo  mascarenhas 


102 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Obras  Citadas 

Bourdieu,  Pierre.  Razdes  prdticas.  Oeiras:  Celta,  2001.  Impresso. 

Durkheim,  Emile.  A divisao  do  trabalho  social.  Vol.  1.  Lisboa;  Editorial  PreseiKja,  1977.  Impresso. 
Godbout,  Jacques  T.  L’esprit  du  don.  Paris:  Editions  la  Decouverte,  1992.  Impresso. 

Godelier,  Maurice.  O enigrna  da  dadiva.  Lisboa:  Edi(;6es  70,  2000.  Impresso. 

Leal,  Joao.  As  festas  do  Espirito  Santo  nos  Azores.  Lisboa:  Publica^oes  D.  Quixote,  1994.  Impresso. 
Machado,  Jose  Pedro.  Grande  diciondrio  da  Lingua  Portuguesa.  Amadora:  Ediclube,  1990. 
Impresso. 

Marx,  Karl,  and  Friedrich  Engels.  O manifesto  do  partido  Comunista.  Lisboa:  Edi^oes  Avante, 
1997.  Impresso. 

Mascarenhas,  Maria  Margarida  Paes  Lobo.  A procissao  do  Senhor  dos  Passos  da  Sapataria.  Lisboa: 
ISCTE,  2001.  Impresso. 

Mauss,  Marcel.  Ensaio  sobre  a dddiva.  Lisboa:  Edi^oes  70,  2001.  Impresso. 

O trabalho  e as  tradi^oes  religiosas  no  distrito  de  Lisboa.  Lisboa:  Governo  Civil,  1991.  Impresso. 


Maria  Margarida  Paes  Lobo  Mascarenhas  is  a teacher  and  received  a BA  in  anthropology 
at  the  Institute  de  Ciencias  do  Trabalho  e da  Empresa  (ISCTE)  in  Lisbon.  She  has  pub- 
lished in  collaboration  with  Joao  Cravo:  “Encontro  de  Culturas:  uma  experiencia,”  in 
Cadernos  de  Educagao  de  Infdncia,  number  3 1 , July  1 994.  She  has  done  extensive  fieldwork 
on  the  Sapataria  for  many  years. 


Coins  for  the  Dead,  Money  on  the  Floor:  Mortuary  Ritual 
in  Bahian  Candomble 


Brian  Brazeal 


Abstract.  This  paper  examines  the  exchange  of  money,  commodities,  and 
services  among  religious  adepts  and  between  humans  and  their  ancestors 
in  a Candomble  mortuary  ritual  in  Cachoeira,  Bahia,  Brazil.  In  the  axexe, 
profits  from  secret  ceremonies  fund  communal  devotions.  Communal 
devotions  tie  initiatic  kin  together  through  reciprocity.  Mortuary  rituals 
sever  these  ties  when  initiatic  family  members  die.  Parties  in  the  service  of 
benevolent  deities  bring  fame  to  houses.  Fame  attracts  clients.  Clients  pay  to 
undo  the  malfeasance  of  their  enemies  or  to  make  them  suffer.  Their  money 
in  turn  funds  communal  devotions.  Evil  underwrites  good.  Concealment 
underwrites  spectacle.  The  dead  become  the  livelihood  of  the  living. 


Ela  ja  vai  embora 

Brasilina  Queiroz  de  Almeida  was  born  in  Cachoeira  on  22  March  1950  and 
died  on  23  February  2005  in  Feira  de  Santana,  Bahia,  Brazil.  She  died  of  a 
heart  attack  related  to  her  diabetes.  No  one  seemed  to  know  her  full  name 
before  then.  She  was  simply  Brasilia.  Or  perhaps  not  so  simply  since  at  dif- 
ferent times  she  was  also  the  Ere,  Flor  do  Dia,  Caboclo  Oxossi,  Yansan,  and 
Yemanja.'  Maria,  a mae  de  santo,  or  Candomble  priestess,  had  seated  these 
Orixas  in  Brasilia’s  head  fifteen  years  before  in  the  Ketu  initiation  ritual.  Long 
before  that  Marias  father,  Sr.  Justo,  had  performed  a series  of  obrigagoes,  or 
rituals  of  allegiance  to  the  Orixas,  that  wedded  Brasilia  to  the  life  of  the  Prison 
Alley  terreiro,  an  old  temple  of  Candomble  in  Cachoeira,  Bahia. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  2H2A  (2012):  103—123. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


104 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


-^1 


The  connection  would  prove  durable.  For  as  long  as  I knew  her,  Brasilia 
was  Maria’s  most  devoted  and  loyal  filha  de  santOy  or  daughter,  in  Candom- 
ble’s  ritual  kinship  system.  And  this  connection  would  last  for  generations. 
Her  daughter  Rita,  known  for  the  past  few  years  as  lyawo  de  Oxossi,  under- 
went initiation  at  Maria’s  hands,  as  did  her  granddaughter  Sheila,  now  known 
as  lyawo  de  Yansan.  But  the  mortuary  rituals  that  Maria  would  undertake 
were  destined  to  sever  the  personal  connections  between  Brasilia  and  the  sur- 
viving members  of  her  ritual  family. 

Brasilia  died  during  Lent.  Maria  suppressed  her  grief  and  launched  into 
logistical  action,  calling  friends,  relatives,  and  ritual  kin  to  notify  them  of  the 
death  and  assembling  the  money  that  she  would  need  to  put  on  the  funeral. 
She  told  Valdeci,  her  second  in  command  at  the  temple,  to  get  the  oldest  razor 
and  pair  of  scissors  from  the  roncor,  or  initiation  chamber.  These  were  pre- 
sumably the  ones  used  in  Brasilia’s  initiation  to  the  cult  of  the  Orixas.  She  also 
instructed  her  to  cook  up  hominy  and  the  steamed  pyramids  of  white  corn 
flour  called  acagd.  These  would  go  into  an  ebo,  or  propitiatory  sacrifice,  that 
would  be  cast  into  the  Paraguassii  River  that  runs  through  Cachoeira.  It  was 
the  first  of  a series  of  sacrifices  that  would  set  things  right  after  Brasilia’s  death. 

The  next  day  a huge  procession  accompanied  Brasilia’s  coffin  from  her 
house  in  the  Rua  da  Feira  (Road  of  the  Market)  to  the  cemetery  on  the  Rua 
da  Saudade  (Road  of  Longing).  It  was  led  by  a phalanx  of  Orixas  in  the  bod- 
ies of  her  brothers  and  sisters  de  santo,  who  scattered  hominy  and  acagd  at 
every  crossroads.^  The  coffin  was  borne  through  the  streets  by  ogans,  the  male 
officiants  of  Candomble,  as  well  as  male  friends  and  family.  A doleful  crew  of 
mourners,  mostly  dressed  in  white,  brought  up  the  rear. 

Preta,  another  Candomble  priestess  and  inheritor  of  the  oldest  Ketu  tem- 
ple in  Cachoeira  proper,  led  the  singing.^  At  the  graveside,  as  the  coffin  was 
lowered  into  the  red  massape  soW  she  sang: 

Ela  ja  vai,  ela  ja  vai,  ela  ja  vai 

Ja  vai  embora. 

[She  is  now  going,  she’s  now  going,  she’s  now  going 

She’s  going  away] 

This  was  more  of  a hopeful  exhortation  to  the  undeparted  soul  than  a 
statement  of  fact.  To  send  Brasilia  away  in  proper  style  would  require  an  axexe, 
a series  of  mortuary  rituals  that  dislodges  an  initiate  to  Candomble  from  this 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  105 

world  and  transforms  her  into  a benevolent  Egum,  or  ancestral  spirit,  in  the 
temple’s  private  pantheon.'^ 

Two  nights  before  Brasilia  died,  Maria,  Jana  (another  of  Marias  filhas  de 
santo),  and  I all  had  dreams  that  were  interpreted  to  have  presaged  her  passing. 

One  of  Marias  many  responsibilities  as  mae  de  santo  is  to  interpret  the  dreams 
of  people  in  her  community.  She  looks  for  communications  from  the  divini- 
ties of  Candomble  about  their  lives  and  those  of  the  rest  of  her  ritual  family. 

Maria  dreamt  of  dirty  clothes,  which  are  supposed  to  signify  a corpse.  Jana 
dreamt  of  Marias  deceased  mother  saying  that  someone  would  soon  join  her. 

I dreamt  of  winning  a lot  of  money  shooting  dice.  The  money  was  all  in  coins. 

Coins  also  signify  death  in  dreams  in  Candomble  because  of  their  association 
with  Eguns  and  the  axexe. 

Death  and  the  transformation  of  value 

The  axexe  is  a mortuary  ritual  performed  for  senior  members  of  Candom- 
ble initiatic  hierarchies.  It  effects  a transformation  in  the  subjectivity  of  the 
deceased  from  a potentially  dangerous  wandering  spirit  invested  with  the 
powers  of  Candomble  to  an  Egum  cultivated  in  the  temple  compound,  con- 
trolled and  invoked  in  instrumental  earthly  work.  It  is  the  ultimate  transfor- 
mation of  the  personhood  of  an  initiate  to  Candomble  and  it  completes  a 
cycle  begun  many  years  before. 

The  path  to  Candomble  initiation  usually  begins  with  a problem,  perhaps 
a sickness  or  malaise  not  susceptible  to  medical  treatment.  This  leads  the  sick 
person  to  seek  out  a Candomble  priestess.  The  priestess  performs  a divina- 
tion ceremony  called  the  jogo  de  buzios,  or  shell-throwing.  This  divination  is 
intended  to  discover  the  root  of  the  problem  that  is  afflicting  a person’s  life. 

It  is  performed  by  a mae  de  santo  at  the  behest  of  a client  and  is  usually  paid 
for.  Often  the  client’s  problem  can  be  resolved  with  a sacrifice  (called  an  ebo) 
to  the  slave  deity  Exu  or  to  an  Egum,  an  herbal  bath,  or  an  offering  to  one  of 
the  Caboclos,  a pantheon  of  backland  cowboys  and  Indians.  But  in  a small 
number  of  cases  an  Orixa  lets  it  be  known  through  the  shells  that  the  client 
must  be  initiated  into  their  cult  and  serve  them  through  the  rest  of  her  life. 

The  Orixas  are  the  high  gods  of  Candomble,  a pantheon  of  deities  related 
to  those  worshipped  by  Yoruba-  and  Gbe-speaking  peoples  of  West  Africa. 

Initiation  to  their  cult  entails  a radical  transformation  in  the  subjectivity 
of  the  initiate.  It  involves  a long  period  of  confinement  and  training,  and 
lengthy  prohibitions  on  eating  certain  foods  and  engaging  in  sexual  activity. 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


106 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


It  also  involves  sacrifices  of  animals,  other  foods,  and  elements  of  the  initiates’ 
own  body.  She  is  adopted  into  a ritual  family  with  strict  rules  of  hierarchy, 
delerence,  and  submission.  Initiates  to  the  role  of  vodunsi  or  filha  de  santo  give 
over  their  bodies  to  the  Orixas  to  whom  they  have  been  consecrated.  These 
deities  possess  them  in  public  and  private  ceremonies.  Initiates  owe  periodic 
obligations  to  their  tutelary  Orixas.  These  take  the  form  of  private  sacrifices 
followed  by  public  leasts  and  spirit-possession  parties.  Initiates  also  have  obli- 
gations of  deference  and  submission  to  the  senior  members  of  their  ritual 
families.  Public  and  private  ceremonies  for  the  Orixas  trace  and  reinforce  the 
contours  of  ritual  hierarchies. 

In  return  for  these  elaborate  and  expensive  honors  rendered  to  the  Orixas 
and  their  superiors,  the  initiate  gains  the  power  to  enjoin  the  deities  of  Can- 
domble  to  work  on  her  behalf  on  earth.  The  Orixas  themselves  do  no  work 
but  they  extend  their  divine  mantle  of  protection  over  their  devotees.  Work  is 
done  by  Exus  who  are  problematically  identified  with  the  Christian  Devil,  as 
well  as  Egum  ancestral  spirits  and  Caboclo  cowboys  and  Indians.  Candomble 
adepts  marshal  their  divine  powers  through  their  own  offerings  or  with  the 
mediation  of  their  mae  de  santo  or  ritual  mother. 

Sometimes  Candomble  adepts  are  sought  out  to  perform  spiritual  work 
for  others.  When  instrumental,  earthly  work  is  undertaken  for  clients,  it  can 
bring  profit  to  the  practitioner.  Money  earned  through  such  magical  manipu- 
lations should  be  reinvested  in  part  in  the  cult  of  the  Orixas.  Values  are  trans- 
formed from  the  spiritual  plane  to  the  temporal  one  and  back.  Ritual  action 
is  work.  In  the  communal  ceremonies  for  the  Orixas  it  reproduces  ritual  fami- 
lies. In  the  individualized  services  for  Exits,  Eguns,  and  Caboclos,  it  produces 
value  for  practitioners. 

This  essay  explores  the  transformations  of  value  entailed  in  expenditures 
for  mortuary  rituals  and  the  use  of  coins  in  the  axexe.  I borrow  the  phrase 
“transformation  of  value”  from  Nancy  Munn,  who  uses  it  in  reference  to 
exchanges,  mortuary  rituals,  and  witchcraft  on  the  Melanesian  island  of 
Gawa.  In  Munn’s  formulation,  prestations  of  cooked  foods  are  the  first  term 
in  a series  of  exchanges  that  allow  Gawans  to  extend  their  reach  and  their 
influence  across  ever-widening  domains  of  space  and  time  in  the  regional 
Kula  ring.  In  my  formulation,  exchanges  with  deities  allow  Candomble  devo- 
tees to  expand  their  earthly  powers.  In  both,  value  has  strong  positive  and 
negative  poles.  Exchanges  undertaken  with  care  and  savvy  can  potentially 
bring  fame  and  fortune  to  those  who  initiate  them.  But  those  who  refuse  to 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  107 

give  trading  partners  their  due  or  who  are  overambitious  leave  themselves 
open  to  the  depredations  of  supernatural  forces.  It  is  only  through  generosity 
with  the  products  of  one’s  own  labor  that  one  can  advance,  either  as  a Gawan 
Kula  trader  or  as  a practitioner  of  Candomble. 

Axexh  are  extremely  expensive  endeavors.  But  they  are  necessary  to  maintain 
the  good  will  of  the  family  dead  and  the  working  relationship  that  allows  the 
living  to  mobilize  their  power  in  rituals  of  healing.  Uncared-for  ancestors  can  be 
dangerous,  especially  those  who  were  initiated  into  Candomble  during  their  lives. 

They  can  return  to  the  realm  of  the  living  as  malevolent  Eguns  that  sicken  and 
even  kill,  or  close  off  people’s  paths  to  financial  success,  love,  and  happiness. 

But  well-cared-for  Eguns  are  powerful  allies.  Their  influence,  when  mobi- 
lized through  ebos,  can  counteract  the  malfeasance  of  wandering  spirits  of  the 
dead  on  behalf  of  the  living.  They  can  bring  in  clients  for  priestesses  and  offer 
wise  counsel  to  their  descendants  through  dreams  and  apparitions.  They  pro- 
vide a link  to  the  power  of  the  past  that  Candomble  practitioners  can  ignore 
only  at  their  own  peril. 

Exchange  and  the  obligations  it  creates  harness  divine  powers  in  the  ser- 
vice of  everyday  undertakings.  This  essay  examines  the  multiple  logics  of 
exchange  at  work  in  the  axexe  mortuary  ritual.  Marketplace  transactions  for 
foods,  animals,  and  durable  goods  are  necessary  to  prepare  for  an  axexe.  Some 
of  these  objects  and  animals  are  rendered  to  the  dead,  through  blood  sacri- 
fice and  destruction.  The  ritual  use  of  money  commercializes  relationships 
between  living  members  of  the  temple  community  and  their  ancestors.  Token 
payments  for  ritual  services  among  the  living  participants  in  an  axexe  the 
outlines  of  temple  hierarchies.  Propitiations  of  Exiis  and  Orixas  guarantee  the 
benevolence  or  benign  neglect  of  these  pantheons.  And  the  quid  of  the  dead 
repays  practitioners  for  all  of  their  labor  and  sacrifice. 

Different  logics  of  exchange  characterize  practitioners’  relationships  with 
the  different  pantheons  of  deities  in  Candomble  and  different  moments  in  an 
initiate’s  lifecycle.  Candomble  adepts  make  promises  to  Catholic  saints,  fulfill 
obligations  to  the  Orixas,  feed  Caboclos,  demand  services  from  Exu  and  pay 
for  them,  and  there  are  even  rumors  of  pacts  with  devils.  Exchanges  with 
Orixas,  especially  those  entailed  by  initiation,  follow  the  reciprocal  logic  of 
the  Maussian  prestation.  Instrumental  sacrifices  to  Exii  look  more  like  com- 
mercial transactions.  This  essay  focuses  on  exchanges  with  Eguns,  which  are 
perhaps  the  most  complex  of  all.  Webs  of  ritual  kinship  built  up  through 
years  of  communal  sacrifice  to  the  Orixas  must  be  dissolved  lest  they  become 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


dangerous  to  survivors.  The  relationships  among  family  members  that  were 
once  reciprocal  and  cemented  by  ritual  commensality  must  be  transformed 
into  a commercial,  working  relationship  with  the  Egum.  This  is  accomplished 
through  the  ritual  rendering  of  coins  to  Egum  in  the  axexe. 

The  public  face  of  Candomble’s  devotions  are  the  ceremonies  in  honor  of 
the  Orixas.  At  these  lavish  parties  the  gods  possess  their  devotees  and  appro- 
priate their  bodies  to  dance.  They  are  adorned  in  the  finest  cloth  and  feted 
in  the  finest  style  that  their  humble  children  can  afford.  Animals  slaughtered 
for  the  Orixas  are  cooked  and  distributed  to  members  of  the  ritual  family  and 
their  guests.  But  the  business  of  Candomble,  the  daily  work  of  healing  and 
witchcraft,  is  carried  out  with  Eguns  and  Exus.  These  spirits  are  called  upon 
to  afflict  or  assuage  priestesses’  clients  or  their  clients’  enemies.  Clients  pay 
dearly  for  these  services.  These  payments  underwrite  the  cult  of  the  Orixas. 

Rituals  for  healing  and  witchcraft  are  called  ebos.  They  are  carried  out  in 
private  and  often  in  secrecy.  Clients  usually  want  to  keep  their  own  participa- 
tion hidden  from  the  public  eye.  Candomble  is  a much  maligned  religion  and 
private  visits  to  priestesses  are  held  by  the  laity  to  be  solicitations  for  malicious 
magic  or  the  undoing  of  its  effects.  The  deities  that  priestesses  call  on  in  ebos 
are  Exiis  and  Eguns.  They  are  not  the  Orixas  who  are  worshipped  in  public  cer- 
emonies. Priestesses’  services  are  compensated  with  cash.  The  deities  are  com- 
pensated with  their  favorite  sacrificial  offerings  and  token  payments  of  coins. 

Feasts  for  the  Orixas  are  public,  spectacular,  communal,  and  commensal. 
Non-initiates  attend  without  fear  since  Orixas  are  not  implicated  in  works  for 
evil.  But  ebos2se^  private,  hidden,  powerful,  and  potentially  dangerous  affairs. 
Eguns  and  Exiis  may  harm  as  well  as  help  and  in  either  case  they  must  be 
carefully  controlled  by  the  priestess  and  her  flock.  The  two  types  of  ritual  are 
interdependent.  Money  made  in  rituals  for  Egum  underwrites  the  ceremonies 
for  the  Orixas.  The  aim  of  the  axexe  is  to  transform  a late  friend  and  ritual 
relative  into  a powerful  spirit  with  whom  one  can  work. 

Ebos  for  Exii  can  be  made  to  further  some  earthly  project  such  as  finding 
a job  or  seducing  a lover.  But  Eguns  cannot  be  put  to  work  in  this  man- 
ner. They  only  afflict.  Sacrifices  to  Egum  are  either  propitiations  intended  to 
purge  a person  of  Eguns’  deleterious  influences  or  else  willful  acts  of  sorcery 
intended  to  plague  the  life  of  the  client’s  chosen  victim.  Ebos  of  the  first  type 
invoke  the  powers  of  Eguns  of  the  house,  those  who  have  been  brought  into 
the  priestesses’  personal  pantheon  through  the  axexe.  Ebos  of  the  second  type 
call  on  Eguns  of  the  road,  the  unquiet  and  dangerous  deceased. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  109 

Juana  Elbein  dos  Santos  has  argued  that  the  effects  a transformation 
in  the  relationship  of  the  deceased  person  to  the  members  of  her  initiatic 
family.  A living  initiate  to  Candomble  is  enmeshed  in  a web  of  reciprocal  obli- 
gations to  deities  and  members  of  her  temple  community.  These  particular, 
earthly  relationships  are  severed  by  the  axexe^  which  moves  the  deceased  from 
the  earthly  plane  of  particular  existence  to  the  spiritual  plane  of  generalized 
existence.  Their  personality  is  dissolved.  The  deceased  mae  (“mother”),  irma 
(sister),  or  filha  de  santo  becomes  simply  Egum. 

The  axexe  is  the  most  important  in  a series  of  mortuary  rituals  designed 
to  sever  the  reciprocal  connections  between  an  initiate  and  her  temple  com- 
munity. These  connections  are  built  through  years  of  communal  sacrifices  to 
the  Orixas.  But  after  an  initiate’s  death  these  personal  connections  become 
dangerous.  A person  who  was  once  a partner  in  a reciprocal  relationship 
becomes  a sacrosanct  and  dangerous  deity  with  whom  one  enters  into  con- 
tractual obligations  through  the  ebo.  I argue  that  this  transformation  is 
effected  through  the  exchanges  between  the  living  members  of  the  temple 
community  and  the  spirit  of  the  deceased.  Some  exchanges  symbolize  the 
personal  relationships  that  are  being  severed;  others  create  the  generalized 
relationship  of  contractual  obligation  that  ought  to  exist  between  an  Egum 
and  the  membership  of  a terreiro. 

Objects  in  the  first  category,  those  that  symbolize  the  individual  nature 
of  the  deceased  person  and  her  particular  relationships  to  the  kin  that  survive 
her,  are  like  Weiner’s  inalienable  possessions.  They  carry  in  them  some  facet 
of  the  personhood  of  the  deceased.  In  the  axexe  these  include  dresses,  beaded 
necklaces,  ritual  implements,  photographs,  and  other  trinkets  of  an  earthly  life 
now  ended.  These  are  delivered  to  Egum  in  forests,  rivers,  and  cemeteries  and 
exposed  to  the  depredations  of  time,  weather,  and  water.  Their  slow  destruc- 
tions destroy  the  personhood  of  the  deceased  and  her  claims  on  the  living. 

Objects  in  the  second  category,  those  that  establish  a generalized  relation- 
ship between  the  deceased  and  the  temple  community,  include  the  standard 
fare  of  Candomble  sacrifices:  food,  drink,  fowl,  and  especially  money.  The 
living  give  coins  to  Egum  to  keep  themselves  safe.  David  Graeber  says  that 
“money  presents  a frictionless  surface  to  history”  (94).  It  is  pure  potential 
and  as  such  it  is  anonymous.  Social  identities  need  not  play  any  part  in  a 
transaction  involving  money.  “Rather  than  serving  as  a mark  of  distinctive- 
ness, it  tends  to  be  identified  with  the  holder’s  generic,  hidden  capacities 
for  action”  (Graeber  94).  Money  rendered  to  deceased  friends  and  family 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


no 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


renders  them  generic  and  hidden.  Their  capacities  for  action  are  mobilized 
through  the  ebo,  which  is  more  like  a commercial  transaction  than  a favor 
lor  a friend  or  relative. 

The  personal  claims  of  the  dead  on  the  living  are  dangerous  and  require 
ritual  means  to  sever.  Countless  people  in  Bahia  find  themselves  sickened  by 
the  proximity  of  loving  but  overly  attached  dead  relatives.  The  ritual  transac- 
tion of  money  between  the  living  and  the  dead  dissolves  these  claims.  The 
coins  for  Egum  move  the  spirit  from  the  kin-based  realm  of  general  reciprocal 
exchange  and  the  relationships  it  entails  to  the  balanced  realm  of  exchanges 
mediated  by  money  between  an  individual  and  a powerful,  dangerous  deity. 

We  can  see  in  this  unending  cycle  of  exchanges  a system  for  the  transfor- 
mation of  value.  Profits  from  secret  ceremonies  fund  communal  devotions. 
Communal  devotions  tie  initiatic  kin  together  through  reciprocity.  Mortuary 
rituals  sever  these  ties  when  initiatic  family  members  die.  Parties  in  the  ser- 
vice of  benevolent  deities  bring  fame  to  houses.  Fame  attracts  clients.  Clients 
pay  to  undo  the  malfeasance  of  their  enemies  or  to  make  them  suffer.  Their 
money  in  turn  funds  communal  devotions.  Evil  underwrites  good.  Conceal- 
ment underwrites  spectacle.  Contractual  transactions  underwrite  reciprocity. 
The  dead  become  the  livelihood  of  the  living. 

Shopping  for  Egum 

The  axexe  could  not  begin  until  Lent  and  the  violent  revelry  of  Good  Friday 
had  passed.  As  the  date  approached,  Maria  was  already  more  than  seven  hun- 
dred reals  in  debt.^  The  expenses  of  the  funeral,  some  of  the  locally  available 
supplies  for  the  axexe,  and  everyday  expenses  like  the  phone  bill  (higher  than 
usual  because  of  all  the  calls  she  had  to  make  after  Brasilia  died)  had  depleted 
her  already  meager  savings.  And  so  many  expenditures  remained.  She  traveled 
to  Feira  de  Santana  to  buy  the  full  complement  of  fowl  that  would  be  sacri- 
ficed in  the  axexe.  White  doves,  guinea  hens,  white  ducks,  and  white  chickens 
are  all  more  expensive  because  merchants  know  that  white  fowl  are  in  high 
demand  for  Candomble. 

Then  came  the  crockery:  she  had  to  buy  porcelain  plates  and  clay  bowls  to 
hold  the  offerings  and  the  clay  vases  and  platters  that  stand  in  for  the  drums. 
Several  of  these  disposable  musical  instruments  would  be  broken  each  night 
of  the  ceremony.  Cloth,  beans,  grains,  calabashes,  palm  oil,  olive  oil,  honey, 
alcohol,  cachaga,  conhaque,  wine,  candles,  kola  nuts,  and  fire  fans  were  all 
purchased  for  the  dead  and  the  Orixas  and  Exiis  who  accompany  them.^’ 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


And  the  living  must  be  fed  as  well.  She  would  call  her  scattered  filhos  de 
santo  together  and  they  would  eat  and  sleep  in  her  house  for  at  least  three 
days.  She  would  bring  in  a crew  from  another  terreiro  more  experienced  in 
this  kind  of  ritual.  They  would  also  need  to  be  fed.  The  axexe^Nouid  end  with 
a breakfast,  luxurious  and  delicious,  and  as  expensive  and  important  as  any 
other  phase  of  the  process.  She  would  need  cases  of  beer  and  liters  of  liquor. 
There  must  be  plenty  to  drink  during  an  axexe.  Finally,  she  would  need  to 
rent  a van  to  bring  it  all  home  to  Cachoeira. 

Her  ogans  and  filhos  de  santo  bought  up  meters  and  meters  of  white  poplin 
cloth  in  the  market.  They  set  aside  any  five  cent  coins  that  came  their  way 
and  traded  their  real  notes  for  coins  to  numbers-runners  of  the  jogo  de  bicho 
gambling  network.  Dona  Tuca,  another  of  Maria’s  filhas,  stayed  up  late  sewing 
the  new  white  clothes  that  her  ritual  kin  would  have  to  wear.  She  expected 
no  recompense  and  received  little.  But  this  was  her  contribution  to  the  axexe 
since  her  straitened  financial  circumstances  precluded  a monetary  donation. 

On  the  morning  of  the  day  the  axexe  to  begin,  Maria  was  in  Salvador, 
scouring  the  Sao  Joaquim  market  for  the  imported  African  items  she  would 
need.  One  of  these  was  raffia  palm  fiber.  This  would  be  braided  into  the  con- 
traegum  bands  that  would  chafe  our  arms  and  protect  us  from  wayward  souls.^ 

Her  ogans,  filhos,  and  friends  began  to  trickle  up  the  hill.  Maria  canvassed  them 
for  contributions.  One  who  lives  and  works  in  Salvador  was  asked  for  twenty  reals 
and  gave  fifty.  Another  who  sells  clothes  in  the  market  came  up  with  ten.  No  one 
had  much  to  spare.  Everyone  did  what  they  could.  Collaboration  came  from  as  far 
away  as  Mundo  Novo  in  the  sertao  (Bahia’s  desert  interior)  and  Sao  Paulo  where 
people  who  would  not  attend  made  wire-transfers  into  Maria’s  bank  account.  Ini- 
tiation to  Candomble  creates  a bond  of  kinship  not  just  between  the  filhade  santo 
and  her  mdehux.  to  an  entire  ritual  lineage  and  the  entire  family  of  its  descendants. 
People  contributed  not  only  because  of  their  affection  for  Brasilia  but  because 
their  house  and  the  ritual  and  social  life  it  anchored  were  at  stake. 

The  hurly-burly  of  preparations  eclipsed  some  of  the  sadness  about  Brasil- 
ia’s death.  Even  her  daughter,  lyawo  de  Oxossi,  could  be  coaxed  into  smil- 
ing. Beans  and  grains  were  toasted,  corn  was  popped.  One  of  the  dresses  of 
Brasilia’s  Orixas  and  some  of  her  other  personal  effects  were  placed  in  the 
center  of  the  barracao,  or  public  area  of  the  temple.  The  food  offerings  were 
arrayed  on  porcelain  plates  around  them.  Clay  bowls  called  alguidares  were 
filled  with  amaci,  a broth  made  from  macerated  leaves  used  for  ritual  cleans- 
ing. Calabashes  were  placed  inverted  in  clay  bowls.  These  would  take  the 


112 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


place  ol^  the  riimpi  and  runle,  the  two  smaller  drums  of  the  Candomble  per- 
cussion ensemble.  A large  clay  vase,  half  filled  with  amaci  and  played  with  a 
fire  fan  would  take  the  place  of  the  rum,  or  largest  component  of  the  drum 
orchestra.  These  instruments  would  be  destroyed  and  left  in  the  forest.  Noth- 
ing used  in  the  axexe  could  remain  in  the  temple  once  it  was  over.  When  the 
assemblage  was  complete,  they  covered  it  with  a new  white  cloth  and  waited 
for  the  arrival  of  Preta  and  her  crew  from  the  temple  He  Axe  Alaketu  Oxum. 

Pads  and  axexe 

Preta  cut  an  imposing  figure  as  she  lumbered  out  of  a broken-down  car.  Her 
sharp  tongue,  her  jovial  nature,  and  her  obscene  sense  of  humor  did  nothing 
to  diminish  her  position  as  the  ranking  mae  de  santo  in  Cachoeira.  The  older 
women  of  her  terreiro  rode  up  the  hill  in  a car  while  the  men  who  would  cut, 
carry,  drum,  and  dance  trudged  up  behind. 

Preta’s  arrival  galvanized  everyone  into  action.  We  donned  our  white 
clothes  and  scrounged  up  the  first  night’s  portion  of  coins.  Brasilia’s  blood 
relatives,  for  whom  dancing  would  be  too  dangerous,  crouched  on  straw  mats 
in  the  corner.  The  axexe  began  with  this  song  for  Exu: 

Ina  ina  mojuba  e e ina  mojuba 

Ina  ina  mojuba  e 

Ina  mojuba.^ 

The  ceremony  opened  as  many  Candomble  ceremonies  do,  with  a pade 
for  Exu.  The  pade  is  a propitiatory  offering  that  ensures  Exu’s  benediction 
for  and  noninterference  in  the  ceremony  that  was  to  follow.  The  Egum  offer- 
ings were  uncovered.  The  Candomble  rhythms  were  played  slow  and  solemn 
on  the  calabashes  and  the  vase  that  stood  in  for  the  atabaque  drums.  High- 
ranking  female  initiates  scattered  manioc  flour  mixed  with  oils,  water,  and 
honey  in  front  of  the  terreiro  and  down  the  street  for  twenty  meters.  Neigh- 
bors saw  that  the  ceremony  was  in  progress  and  pulled  their  children  inside. 
In  the  barracdo,  the  ritual  was  performed  with  the  tense  urgency  of  an  ebo. 
Exu’s  acceptance  or  rejection  of  this  first  offering  would  portend  well  or  ill  for 
the  outcome  of  the  next  three  nights  of  ritual  labor.  Preta  performed  the  first 
divination  by  cutting  a kola  nut  into  quarters  and  throwing  it  on  the  floor. 
The  quarters  all  landed  on  their  convex  backs.  This  meant  that  the  offering 
had  been  accepted.  We  clapped  with  palpable  relief  but  the  night  was  young. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 1 3 

Exu  and  the  white  owl  of  death  were  praised,  propitiated,  and  sent  on 
their  way.  We  began  to  sing  for  Egum. 

Axexe  axexe  onan. 

Preta  danced  first  and  placed  coins  in  the  percussion  instruments  as  well 
as  in  the  alguidar  (“clay  bowl”)  that  sat  at  the  head  of  the  offering.  People 
danced  in  order  of  seniority,  women  before  men.  As  a non-initiate  in  ambigu- 
ous relation  to  the  temple  hierarchies,  I danced  last.  As  each  person  danced, 
the  others  brought  coins  that  they  passed  over  their  bodies  in  the  motions  of  a 
limpeza  and  put  them  in  the  dancer’s  hands. ^ Each  person  took  their  turn  at 
dancing  by  saluting  the  door  and  the  central  rafter  post  and  then  genuflecting 
in  front  of  the  person  dancing.  That  person  would  then  throw  a few  of  her 
coins  into  the  alguidar  at  the  foot  of  the  offering,  give  the  rest  to  her  substi- 
tute, and  throw  some  of  the  fine  beach  sand  from  a little  pile  over  the  offering. 

Someone  said  to  me  years  ago,  after  another  axexe,  that  “when  you’re  doing 
an  axexe,  Egum  is  there,  on  his  feet  in  front  of  you.  No  one  wants  to  dance 
with  Egum  empty-handed.”  The  coins  protect  the  dancer  from  Egum’s  influ- 
ence while  she  is  dancing,  but  she  offers  them  on  behalf  of  others.  The  Egum 
with  whom  she  dances  is  the  particular  Egum,  ripe  with  power  and  danger  for 
the  person  he  confronts. The  dancer  starts  off  empty-handed  and  receives 
coins  from  others  as  she  goes.  Everyone  knows  the  dangers  attending  on  their 
participation  in  the  axexe  2Lnd  they  use  their  coins  to  periodically  purge  them- 
selves of  Egum’s  influence  as  they  go.  The  dancer  confronts  Egum,  “on  his 
feet”  in  front  of  her.  She  carries  the  coins  laden  with  the  burdens  from  the 
bodies  of  her  brothers  and  sisters  and  remits  them  to  Egum  in  his  calabash. 

The  danger  here  derives  from  the  personal  relationships  between  the  liv- 
ing members  of  the  temple  community  and  the  deceased.  These  relationships 
are  born  of  blood  kinship  and  the  ritual  kinship  cemented  through  the  blood 
sacrifices  of  Candomble  initiation.  They  are  reinforced  through  commensal- 
ity  in  the  rituals  of  obligation  to  the  Orixas  that  punctuate  the  life-cycle  of 
an  initiate.  Currency  is  passed  over  the  body  in  an  attempt  to  sever  these  ties. 

Offerings  of  coins  move  the  relationship  from  the  commensal  to  the  commod- 
ified. The  balanced  nature  of  the  commercial  transaction  takes  the  place  of  the 
reciprocal,  kin-based  nature  of  the  communal  meal  in  the  presence  of  the  gods. 

But  it  was  only  the  first  night  of  the  ceremony  and  Brasilia  was  not  yet 
banished  from  the  realm  of  the  living.  She  was  glimpsed  by  the  dancers  at 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


114 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


I 


the  head  ot  the  offerings  as  they  danced.  The  most  adventurous  of  the  ogans 
clowned  around  and  made  faces  as  they  danced  to  amuse  Egum  and  show 
their  own  fearlessness.  Other  deceased  members  of  the  temple  were  sighted  by 
ogans  standing  watch  at  the  door.  This  was  no  joking  matter.  The  officiating 
priestess  dispatched  Orixas  and  Caboclos  to  patrol  the  street  in  front  of  the 
temple  with  dende  palm  fronds  to  keep  other  departed  souls  away  from  the 
ceremony  in  Brasilia’s  honor. 

The  first  night  of  the  axexe  ended  with  songs  for  Yemanja,  Brasilia’s  per- 
sonal tutelary  Orixa,  and  Oxala,  the  high  god  of  the  Candomble  pantheon. 
Then  participants  adjourned  for  sweet  coffee  and  Brazilian  vodka.  The  pres- 
ence of  such  distinguished  liquor  at  Brasilia’s  mortuary  ritual  was  held  up  as 
evidence  of  her  earthly  splendor. 

Money  on  the  floor 

Maria  showed  up  at  my  door  the  next  day.  For  once  she  was  not  there  to  give 
me  cryptic  warnings  from  her  dreams  but  just  to  get  out  of  her  house  and  get 
a few  things  off  of  her  chest.  Who  could  blame  her?  She  had  a house  full  of 
tired,  scared,  mourning,  and  angry  people  to  deal  with  all  day  and  all  night. 
My  house,  two  doors  up  from  the  temple,  offered  a measure  of  solace. 

She  had  asked  Valdecf  to  call  and  collect  from  two  of  her  clients  from  the 
desert  interior  west  of  Cachoeira  for  whom  she  did  a trabalho  in  October.’^ 
They  hadn’t  paid  her  yet.  Like  so  many  other  clients,  the  couple  is  more  regu- 
lar in  their  needs  for  her  services  than  in  their  payments.  I don’t  know  what 
the  price  she  set  was  but  it  must  have  been  something  in  excess  of  300  reals 
since  Maria  was  willing  to  settle  for  that  if  they  could  get  it  to  her  immedi- 
ately. She  needed  the  money  to  pay  the  floor  the  next  day  when  they  would 
perform  the  sacrifice  for  Egum.  Preta  was  not  charging  her  but  Maria  cannot 
kill  on  that  scale  without  paying  the  floor. 

Dinheiro  do  chao,  or  “money  for  the  floor,”  is  the  ritual  payment  that  must 
accompany  any  blood  sacrifice  to  Orixas,  Exits,  or  Eguns.  It  is  a payment  to 
the  deities  that  inhabit  the  floor  of  the  house  and  a guarantee  of  the  contin- 
ued power  of  the  spirits  that  dwell  therein.  The  money  is  placed  on  the  floor 
while  the  sacrifice  is  being  performed.  The  bills  are  often  speckled  with  blood. 
When  the  sacrifice  is  complete,  the  mae  de  santo  divides  the  money  among 
the  ogans,  ekedis,  and  filhas  de  santo  according  to  their  participation  in  the 
sacrifice.'^  The  ogan  who  does  the  actual  cutting  usually  gets  the  most,  while 
smaller  shares  are  parceled  among  those  who  hold  the  animal  as  it  is  being 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


cut,  those  who  carry  the  offering,  those  who  become  possessed,  and  those  who 
sing,  prepare  the  food,  and  care  for  the  Orixas  who  may  appear. 

The  eventual  distribution  of  dinheiro  do  chao  among  participants  does 
not  take  the  form  of  payment  for  services  rendered.  Money  from  the  floor  is 
an  agrado\  “gratuity”  might  be  the  closest  English  translation.  It  is  a gesture 
of  thanks  and  good  will.  The  floor  is  sacred  space  in  a Candomble  temple, 
consecrated  to  the  tutelary  Orixa  of  the  house.  A Candomble  house  must 
have  certain  secret,  sacred  objects  buried  in  its  foundation  before  it  can  be 
opened.  Placing  money  on  the  floor  pays  obeisance  to  the  deities  that  inhabit 
the  ground.  This  guarantees  not  only  the  continued  financial  success  of  the 
temple,  but  the  harmony  among  its  members  that  is  as  tenuous  as  it  is  neces- 
sary to  the  temples  functioning. 

When  a mae  de  santo  gives  one  of  her  flock  a share  of  the  dinheiro  do 


chdo,  she  places  it  on  the  floor  in  front  of  her.  The  money  must  not  change 
hands  directly.  The  filha  asks  her  ritual  mothers  blessing  and  only  picks  up  ^ 

the  money  after  receiving  it.  This  keeps  the  exchange  from  taking  on  the  char-  J 

acter  of  a commercial  transaction  or  the  alienation  of  commodified  labor.  The 

'ii 

begging  of  blessings  and  the  ritual  prostration  that  often  accompanies  it  is  the  ^ 

most  common  way  to  demonstrate  submission  to  one’s  superiors  in  the  Can-  'p 

domble  hierarchy.  Prostration  puts  the  receiver-of-blessing’s  body  in  contact 
with  the  floor,  which  is  the  dwelling  place  of  the  ancestors  and  tutelary  Orixa  ? 


of  the  temple.  The  way  in  which  a person  begs  a blessing  depends  upon  and 
also  signals  the  relationship  with  the  person  whose  blessing  is  being  begged.  It 
underscores  differences  in  initiatic  age  and  rank  as  well  as  generational  differ- 
ences between  initiating  priestesses  and  their  ritual  children.  Unlike  the  coins 
for  the  dead,  which  sever  kinship  relations,  the  ritual  transaction  of  money  on 
the  floor  reaffirms  them. 

Maria  wanted  at  least  277  reais  to  put  on  the  chao  on  the  last  day  of  the 
axexe  when  the  killing  would  take  place.  This  was  not  a payment  to  Preta. 
When  Preta  travels  to  other  towns  or  to  the  capital  to  perform  axexes  her  fees 
run  to  the  thousands.  But  Maria  and  Brasilia  were  cherished  friends  of  hers 
and  her  late  mother’s.  She  had  waived  the  fee  for  herself  and  her  flock.  How- 
ever, Preta  had  no  right  to  waive  the  payment  to  the  floor  in  the  Prison  Alley 
temple,  even  though  she  would  receive  the  money  and  distribute  it  as  she  saw 
fit.  The  floor  had  to  be  paid  out  of  respect  to  the  powers  of  Maria’s  own  house. 
Maria  herself  had  to  come  up  with  the  money  or  else  risk  the  wrath  of  the 
gods  she  serves,  or  worse,  their  negligence. 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


116 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


The  coins  for  the  dead  work  on  the  principle  of  the  universal  equiva- 
lence of  money  to  transform  a particular  relationship  into  a generalized  one. 
As  coins  are  deposited  in  her  calabash,  Brasilia  slowly  ceases  to  be  Brasilia 
and  becomes  simply  Egum.  But  the  money  on  the  floor  traces,  highlights, 
and  strengthens  the  reciprocal  relationships  among  the  living  members  of  the 
temple  community.  They  receive  a grateful  token  payment  for  the  work  they 
have  performed.  Its  distribution  follows  the  axes  of  Candomble  hierarchy. 
The  way  in  which  it  is  received  underlines  the  submission  of  the  receiver  to 
the  mde  de  santo  who  is  doling  it  out.  She  must  ask  her  blessing,  as  Bahian 
children  do  of  their  parents,  slaves  once  did  of  their  masters,  and  juniors  do 
of  their  seniors  in  Candomble. 

By  the  same  token,  accusations  of  improper  distribution  of  the  dinheiro  do 
chdo  can  be  the  source  of  great  rancor  between  ogans  and  mdes  de  santo.  If  the 
ogans  feel  that  their  services  and  their  position  in  the  temple  are  not  ade- 
quately recognized  with  ritual  payments  they  may  threaten  to  withdraw  their 
services,  or  even  the  shrines  to  their  Orixas  from  the  terreiro. 

Men,  candles,  and  beer 

The  third  and  final  night  of  Brasilia’s  axexe  began  and  ended  with  a holo- 
caust.^^ The  heap  of  fowl  Maria  had  purchased  had  their  blood  spilled  over 
the  shrines  of  the  family  Eguns  and  the  new  shrine  for  Brasilia.  All  of  us  pres- 
ent brought  plenty  of  coins  and  tied  fresh  strands  of  shredded  palm  fronds 
(called  mario)  around  our  wrists  to  protect  ourselves  from  Eguns.  When  the 
cutting  was  done  we  threw  our  coins  and  improvised  bracelets  into  the  algui- 
dar  that  would  go  into  a new  basket  with  the  corpses  of  the  birds. 

When  an  animal  is  sacrificed  in  an  offering  to  an  Orixa,  an  Exu,  or  a Cabo- 
clo,  its  blood  is  let  over  a shrine  and  the  internal  organs  that  constitute  its  axe 
are  arrayed  around  the  seat  of  the  god.^"*  The  rest  is  usually  eaten  with  great 
gusto  by  the  participants  in  the  ceremony.  The  only  exception  is  when  a bird  is 
used  in  a ritual  cleansing.  But  beasts  rendered  to  Eguns  must  rot  in  cemeteries 
or  stands  of  bamboo  or  be  carried  away  by  rivers.  No  one  wants  to  eat  with 
these  fearsome  entities.  Hubert  and  Mauss  identify  the  sharing  of  food  in  the 
presence  of  the  god  as  the  climax  of  a sacrifice.  Obrigagoes  to  the  Orixas  in  this 
house  culminate  with  participants’  heads  being  anointed  with  the  blood  of  the 
sacrificed  animal  and  with  the  sharing  of  food  in  the  festival  that  follows.  But 
blood  sacrifice  for  Egum  is  for  Egum  alone.  The  refusal  of  ritual  commensality 
is  one  way  in  which  ties  formed  through  initiatic  sacrifice  are  severed. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


117 


The  pade  and  divination  ceremony  were  carried  out  as  before,  but  when 
we  began  to  sing  for  Egum,  someone  turned  out  the  electric  lights.  Two  lonely 
candles  would  illuminate  the  barracao  until  dawn.  It  was  not  long  after  we 
started  when  midnight  struck.  We  took  a break  and  had  another  drink  to  let 
this  dangerous  hour  pass. 

We  reconvened  and  sang  a cycle  of  seven  songs  for  each  of  seven  Orixas 
before  the  second  holocaust  began.  Some  sang  the  songs  that  had  accompa- 
nied Brasilia’s  coffin  to  her  grave  while  others  smashed  the  plates,  calabashes, 
and  the  clay  pots  that  had  contained  the  offerings  to  Egum  and  served  as  his 
percussion  instruments.  They  gathered  the  palm  fronds  that  had  protected 
the  doors  and  the  peregun^^  leaves  that  had  adorned  the  walls.  They  swept 
the  floor  to  catch  any  scraps  and  dirt  collected  during  the  axexe.  They  dis- 
carded the  palm-frond  brooms  and  tied  them  up  along  with  the  offerings 
and  everything  else  in  a big  white  sheet.  No  trace  of  the  offerings  rendered  to 
Egum  could  remain  in  the  terreiro  once  the  axexe  over.  Those  who  were 
not  involved  in  breaking  and  gathering  up  the  offerings  cowered  facing  the 
wall,  covering  their  heads  with  their  arms.  The  Eguns  were  on  the  loose  and 
despite  all  the  ritual  precautions  they  still  posed  a danger  to  the  living  at  the 
climax  of  the  ritual. 

There  was  just  a hint  of  gray  light  in  the  east  when  they  tied  up  the  bundle 
and  sent  the  ogans  to  carry  it  down  the  valley.  It  was  awkward  and  weighed 
well  over  fifty  kilos  but  there  were  six  or  seven  able-bodied  ogans  and  a well- 
intentioned  gringo  to  carry  it.  We  went  down  the  steep,  muddy  path  to  the 
Caquende  creek  at  a jog,  in  the  rain,  in  the  dark  with  the  bundle  wrapped  in 
white  cloth  and  slung  from  a wooden  pole. 

Our  instructions  were  to  bring  it  to  a stand  of  bamboo  next  to  the  creek, 
where  it  would  not  attract  undue  attention.  Everyone  was  falling  all  over 
themselves  on  the  mud  and  wet  rocks  so  we  did  not  go  far.  We  left  it  at  a 
suitable  clump  of  bamboo  in  a part  of  the  valley  that  does  not  get  too  much 
traffic.  The  ogans  and  I took  a quick  bath  in  the  stream,  counting  on  the  flow- 
ing water  to  wash  away  traces  of  our  offering  to  Egum.  Then  we  headed  back 
up  the  hill,  chilly  and  relieved. 

At  the  door  of  the  terreiro  we  passed  water  over  our  heads  and  threw  it  on 
the  ground  to  remove  any  lingering  influence  of  Eguns  and  Exiis.  Then  we 
sat  down  for  another  round  of  drinks.  There  was  the  usual  animated  post- 
ebo  conversation  among  the  men  and  anxious  questioning  about  whether  the 
bundle  had  gone  to  a suitably  discreet  location  from  Maria  and  Preta. 


r 

> 

0) 

'I 

D 

T, 

? 

c 

c 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


118 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


We  drank,  smoked,  dozed,  snacked,  and  sipped  coffee  as  the  day  broke. 
The  Padre  had  promised  to  say  a Mass  for  Brasilia’s  soul  at  Maria’s  chapel 
never  materialized,  but  Maria  is  more  than  capable  of  performing  Catholic 
services  herself  Maes  de  Santo  are  often  leaders  of  the  popular  Catholic  devo- 
tions of  their  local  communities.  These  ceremonies  are  integral  parts  of  Can- 
domble  mortuary  ritual  in  Cachoeira.  Maria  does  not  consecrate  the  host  but 
she  led  her  flock  in  prayer  for  Brasilia’s  soul.  When  the  “Mass”  was  over  we 
got  back  together  for  a giant  breakfast  of  traditional  Bahian  foods.  Brasilia’s 
plate  went  under  the  table  next  to  a lighted  candle.  She  received  her  food  on 
the  floor,  the  symbolic  dwelling-place  of  Orixas  and  ancestors. 

A delegation  of  ogans  was  dispatched  to  the  woods  to  get  the  leaves  and 
branches  that  would  be  used  to  cleanse  Maria’s  house  and  the  participants  in  the 
ceremony.  We  lunched  on  fish  and  white  rice;  Brasilia’s  plate  again  went  under 
the  table.  Then  the  housecleaning  began  to  the  sound  of  a doleful  chorus: 

Sarayeye  ibokunum 

Sarayeye  bojoiim. 

This  couplet  was  repeated  over  and  over  in  call  and  response  between 
Preta  and  everyone  else  present  for  more  than  half  an  hour.  Eight  men  made 
their  way  through  the  several  houses  of  Maria’s  compound  scattering  popcorn 
and  hominy,  beating  the  walls  and  the  corners  with  branches,  and  swabbing 
a young  rooster  around  the  house.  These  would  absorb  traces  of  the  Eguns’ 
influence  into  themselves  and  out  of  the  house. 

Then  the  ogans  took  a fresh  pile  of  branches  and  formed  a gauntlet.  We 
lined  up  in  order  of  seniority.  Ekedis  prepared  dishes  of  the  same  types  of  dry 
foods  used  in  the  ebo  de  Egum,  each  with  a coin  in  it.  We  all  underwent  a lim- 
pez.a  or  ritual  cleansing.  The  ekedis  passed  the  dishes  over  us.  The  ogans  beat 
us  with  the  branches  with  great  enthusiasm  and  hilarity.  When  it  was  all  over, 
the  consecrated  foodstuffs  and  the  young  rooster  were  swept  up,  bundled,  and 
brought  to  the  river  by  another  delegation  of  ogans.  Lingering  influences  from 
all  Eguns  were  purged  from  the  temple  and  the  participants  in  the  ceremony. 

The  axexe  was  complete.  The  mood  was  self-congratulatory.  Brasilia  had 
gotten  her  due.  Exhaustion,  camaraderie,  and  alcohol  showed  in  everyone’s 
good  spirits.  Meanwhile,  Preta  had  collected  all  of  the  coins  that  had  been 
tossed  into  the  calabash  as  we  danced  over  the  previous  three  nights.  The 
dinheiro  do  chao  had  already  been  discreetly  distributed. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


119 


I had  been  to  axexes  before  and  enjoyed  the  moment  when  the  coins  for 
the  dead  were  handed  out.  Each  person  who  had  cut,  carried,  or  become 
possessed  was  entitled  to  a share.  Each  person  knelt  before  the  mde  de  santo 
and  asked  her  blessing  before  receiving  theirs.  But  the  coins  they  received  still 
bore  the  stain  of  their  association  with  Egum.  You  could  not  just  spend  them, 
or  even  mix  them  in  your  pockets  with  other  coins.  Coins  for  Egum  had  to 
be  set  aside,  but  spent  quickly.  The  only  thing  you  could  buy  with  them  was 
candles,  to  be  lit  for  Catholic  or  Candomble  santos. 

Candles  for  the  Saint  {velas pro  santo)  is  a euphemism  often  used  for  money 
received  in  exchange  for  Candomble  work.'^  It  implies  that  the  money  received 
will  be  rendered  directly  to  the  Orixas  and  illuminate  their  altars.  But  in  this 
case  the  meaning  was  literal.  Risky  undertakings,  from  participation  in  axexes 
to  the  performance  of  black  magic,  require  that  participants  do  something  to 
shield  themselves  from  potential  negative  effects.  An  offering  to  one’s  tutelary 
Orixa  may  absolve  or  at  least  ameliorate  the  ill  effects  of  the  business.  Those 
who  deal  with  Eguns  and  Exiis  to  the  neglect  of  their  Orixas  do  so  at  their  own 
peril.  The  coins  in  the  axexe\}t\ws>  serve  a double  protective  purpose.  They  shield 
singers  and  dancers  from  contact  with  Egum  while  the  ceremony  is  in  prog- 
ress. Then  they  purchase  candles  for  Catholic  and  Candomble  santos  who  will 
extend  their  protection  to  their  devotees  after  the  ceremony  is  over. 

Here  we  see  one  of  the  principles  of  the  transformation  of  value  in  Can- 
domble writ  small.  Money  earned  in  the  service  of  Eguns  and  Exiis  must  be 
funneled  into  the  cult  of  the  Orixas.  Through  this  spiritual  money  launder- 
ing, the  power  and  danger  and  the  inherent  capacity  for  evil  in  the  cult  of 
these  deities  is  tamed  and  made  safe  for  the  practitioner  and  the  community 
of  which  she  is  a part.  Those  who  fail  to  do  so  are  liable  to  accusations  of 
shirking  their  obligations  to  the  Orixas  and  even  of  charlatanism.  This  par- 
ticular set  of  coins  was  so  suffused  with  the  influence  of  Egum  that  they  could 
not  be  used  for  anything  but  this  sort  of  spiritual  prophylaxis. 

Preta  surveyed  the  crowd  who  had  participated  in  Brasilia’s  axexe.  She  did 
a quick  and  dirty  calculation  of  how  many  people  were  owed  shares  of  the 
take  in  coins  as  she  counted  up  the  pile  of  currency.  Each  share  would  be  quite 
small,  not  enough  even  to  purchase  a packet  of  candles.  Eurthermore,  people 
were  already  disappearing  back  to  their  jobs  and  their  beds.  So  she  made  an 
executive  decision  to  ensure  parity  even  if  it  implied  a break  with  tradition.  In 
life,  Brasilia  was  sweet,  friendly,  and  benign.  No  one  had  any  reason  to  expect 
different  from  her  in  death.  Her  axexeyN2&  complete,  beautiful,  and  performed 


c 

<: 

> 

0) 

'h 

a 

s 

T, 

c 

c 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


120 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


with  a good  heart.  Those  who  took  part  in  it  had  nothing  to  fear.  An  inequi- 
table distribution  of  the  meager  stack  of  coins  could  give  rise  to  rancor  and 
gossip.  She  decided  that  the  candles  for  the  saints  could  be  forgone.  With  the 
heavy  work  of  the  axexe  completed,  the  day  could  proceed  in  a festal  rather 
than  a devotional  atmosphere.  But  the  logic  of  the  blessing  that  underlies 
religious  hierarchies  at  the  end  of  the  axexe  co\AA  not  be  forgotten. 

Preta  traded  the  coins  from  the  axexe  for  a case  of  cold  beer  from  a bar 
down  the  street.  Then  she  let  those  who  had  worked  receive  their  cups  and 
her  blessings  one  by  one. 

Life  after  death 

It  has  now  been  more  than  two  years  since  Brasilia  died.  Soon  her  bones 
will  be  exhumed  from  her  rented  plot  in  Cachoeira’s  ornate  and  segregated 
cemetery  and  destroyed.  But  her  connection  to  the  Prison  Alley  terreiro  will 
last  much  longer  than  her  remains.  She  will  always  be  fondly  remembered 
by  the  members  of  her  ritual  family,  which  includes  her  blood  daughter  and 
granddaughter.  But  her  connection  to  the  temple  goes  much  further  than 
that.  Brasilia  has  become  Egum.  She  is  now  a sacrosanct  deity  in  the  temple’s 
private  pantheon.  Her  powers  can  and  will  be  mobilized,  along  with  those  of 
Maria’s  father  and  the  rest  of  the  family  dead,  to  cure  the  sick  and  afflicted 
clients  who  arrive  at  Maria’s  door. 

The  axexe  that  we  performed  on  her  behalf  transformed  her  subjectiv- 
ity in  a manner  as  radical  as  the  transformations  involved  in  her  feitura  or 
initiation  to  the  cult  of  the  Orixas.  In  initiation  her  head  was  consecrated  as 
the  vessel  of  Yansan  and  Yemanja  and  the  Ere  and  Caboclos  who  accompany 
them.  The  blood  of  sacrifice  that  was  shed  on  her  body  and  on  her  behalf  was 
transmuted  into  the  Active  blood  of  ritual  kinship,  making  her  a daughter  and 
a sister  to  the  members  of  the  Prison  Alley  terreiro.  These  relationships  were 
renewed  and  reaffirmed  in  countless  communal  ceremonies  where  the  fam- 
ily united  in  the  service  of  the  Orixas.  Together  they  cured  the  sick,  afflicted 
the  unjust,  and  came  together  in  worship.  Webs  of  mutual  obligation  united 
them.  Brasilia’s  individuality  and  her  personhood  were  expressed  in  and  cre- 
ated through  her  unique  position  in  the  temple’s  complex  hierarchies. 

However,  upon  her  demise,  her  personhood,  her  individuality,  and  her 
multiple  connections  to  the  members  of  her  blood  and  ritual  families  could 
become  dangerous,  even  deadly  to  her  survivors.  In  the  axexe,  the  members 
of  Maria’s  temple  united  to  sever  them.  Brasilia  was  dead  but  not  gone.  Her 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


121 


continued  proximity  was  a constant  danger.  They  ameliorated  this  danger 
with  money. 

The  ritual  rendering  of  coins  to  the  dead  monetizes  what  were  once  recip- 
rocal, familial  relationships.  The  coins  of  the  axexe  sever  kinship  ties  created 
through  blood  sacrifice.  Relatives  are  not  paid;  they  are  given  gifts.  Payments 
rendered  terminate  obligations  and  destroy  interpersonal  relations.  Gifts,  as  we 
have  long  known,  create  obligations  and  sustain  interpersonal  relations.  Money 
is  the  universal  equivalent  and  as  such  it  is  anonymous  and  impersonal.  The 
dancers  in  the  axexe  rub  coins  over  their  bodies  and  toss  them  into  Egums 
calabash.  They  purge  themselves  of  their  personal  relationship  to  the  deceased. 
They  pay  her  off.  She  was  once  Brasilia,  beloved  sister,  daughter,  and  mother. 
She  is  now  Egum,  a generalized,  anonymous  force  to  be  called  upon  in  ebos. 

As  one  relationship  is  severed,  others  are  reaffirmed.  Brasilia  is  dead.  What 
made  her  Brasilia  must  be  destroyed.  But  the  Prison  Alley  terreiro  lives  on. 
The  relationships  and  the  obligations  that  unite  its  living  members  must  be 
maintained  in  the  face  of  crisis.  This  is  accomplished  through  a very  different 
ritual  transaction  of  money:  the  distribution  of  dinheiro  do  chao,  or  money 
on  the  floor.  The  floor  itself  is  crucial.  It  is  the  dwelling  place  of  the  gods  of 
the  temple,  the  Orixas  who  anchor  the  system  of  ritual  kinship  that  unites 
its  human  members.  Dinheiro  do  chao  is  placed  on  the  floor  in  homage  to 
them.  Money  changes  hands,  but  not  directly.  It  is  not  a payment  for  services 
rendered  among  humans.  It  is  a payment  to  the  gods  themselves  in  recogni- 
tion for  all  they  provide  to  their  devotees.  Only  afterwards  can  it  be  gratefully 
collected  by  its  humble  final  recipient. 

The  way  she  receives  the  money  recognizes  and  reaffirms  her  place  in  the 
temple  hierarchy.  She  prostrates  herself  and  begs  the  blessing  of  the  priestess 
who  gives  it  to  her.  This  ritual  of  submission  underscores  her  devotion  to  the 
family  of  which  she  is  a member.  The  money  she  picks  up  from  the  floor  is  a 
token,  a gratuity,  a gift  and  one  that  carries  plenty  of  obligations. 

The  rendering  of  coins  for  the  dead  and  money  on  the  floor  are  two  moments 
in  an  unending  cycle  of  transformations  of  value  between  human  and  divine 
realms.  Reciprocal  ritual  kinship  is  underwritten  by  commercial  transactions  of 
ritual  services,  between  priestesses  and  clients,  and  between  devotees  and  the 
gods  they  serve.  One  uses  the  anonymous  power  of  money  to  sever  family  ties. 
The  other  uses  moneys  pure  potential  to  reproduce  ritual  hierarchies  and  fami- 
lies. Preta  transformed  the  coins  from  Brasilia’s  axexe  into  a case  of  beer.  I am 
sure  Brasilia  would  have  approved.  The  underlying  logic  is  preserved.  We  took 


c 

s 

> 

{!) 

I'rt 

V/ 

0 

c 

c 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


122 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


oiir  blessings  with  our  cups,  prostrate  on  the  floor  as  she  sat  huge  and  haughty 
on  a stool.  The  relative  positions  of  the  members  of  the  ritual  hierarchy  were 
reaffirmed  and  the  ties  that  unite  us  were  celebrated  with  beery  effervescence. 


Notes 

I grateKilly  acknowledge  the  support  of  the  Fulbright-Hays  fellowship  that  enabled  me 
to  conduct  Brazilian  held  research  and  the  Carter  G.  Woodson  Institute  at  the  University  of 
Virginia  that  provided  write-up  funding. 

' These  are  the  deities  that  would  take  over  Brasilia’s  body  in  Candomble  Ceremonies.  The  Ere, 
Flor  do  Dia  or  Flower  of  the  Morning  is  the  spirit  of  a baby.  Caboclo  Oxossi  is  a West  African  Orbca 
reinciirnated  as  a Caboclo  or  Brazilian  Indian.  Yansan  and  Yemanja  are  Brasilia’s  tutelary  Orixas. 

^ Irmdos  de  Santo  are  those  initiated  to  the  same  Candomble  ritual  family. 

^ Ketu  is  a nation  '"na^ao"  or  ritual  variant  of  Candomble  that  arrived  in  Cachoeira  in  the  1930s. 

An  Egum  is  a spirit  of  a deceased  person  in  Candomble  parlance.  The  plural  is  Eguns. 

^ The  Real  (pi.  reals)  is  the  unit  of  Brazilian  currency.  On  25  February  2005  it  was  worth 
.38  USD. 

^ Cachaga  is  a liquor  distilled  from  sugarcane.  Conhaque  is  another  cane  liquor  mixed  with 
grape  brandy  and  other  flavorings  to  imitate  cognac. 

^ The  contraegum  (also  called  a moca)  is  braided  from  raffia-palm  hber,  dipped  in  a mixture 
of  herbs  and  blood  (called  abd),  and  tied  tightly  around  the  biceps,  hips,  and/or  ankles  to  pro- 
vide protection  from  Eguns. 

® I do  not  try  to  replicate  modern  Yoruba  orthography  in  my  transcriptions  of  songs  in 
Candomble’s  liturgical  language  called  lorubd,  nor  do  I provide  translations.  The  people  who 
sang  these  songs  are  not  familiar  with  modern  Yoruba  orthography  and  are  not  able  to  provide 
word-by-word  translations  of  their  songs.  This  song  pays  homage  to  Exii  in  preparation  for  the 
ceremony  for  Egum. 

^ A limpeza  is  a ritual  cleaning  to  remove  the  influences  of  Exus  and  Eguns  from  the  body 
of  an  afflicted  person.  Offerings  to  the  spirits  are  passed  over  the  arms,  legs,  trunk,  and  head 
of  the  client. 

I use  the  male  personal  pronoun  for  Egum  because  Egum  takes  the  masculine  article  in 
Portuguese.  Eguns  in  general  are  referred  to  as  masculine  but  specific  female  ancestors,  when 
referred  to  by  name,  take  feminine  articles  and  pronouns. 

” Trabalho  means  work,  in  this  case  a ritual  service  calling  on  Exii. 

Ekedis  are  the  female  counterparts  of  ogans.  They  are  initiated  officiants  in  Candomble 
ceremonies  who  do  not  become  possessed  by  the  gods. 

1 use  holocaust  in  its  original  sense  of  a sacrifice  that  entails  the  complete  destruction  of 
its  victim. 

Axe  means  a lot  of  different  things.  Here  it  refers  to  the  life  force  of  an  animal  contained 
in  its  blood  and  internal  organs  used  to  replenish  the  shrines  of  the  Orixas. 

15  Pgregun,  also  called  nativos,  {Dracaena  fragrans,  English:  corn  plant)  is  nailed  to  the  walls 
of  Candomble  temples  to  ward  off  Eguns  (cf  Voeks  125). 

Santo  here  can  refer  equally  to  the  saints  of  the  Catholic  pantheon  and  to  the  Orixas. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


123 


Works  Cited 

Graeber,  David.  Toward  an  Anthropological  Theory  of  Value:  The  False  Coin  of  Our  Own  Dreams. 
New  York:  Palgrave,  2001.  Print. 

Hubert,  Henri,  and  Marcel  Mauss.  Sacrifice:  Its  Nature  and  Function.  Trans.  W.  D.  Halls. 
Chicago:  U of  Chicago  P,  1964.  Print. 

Matory,  J.  Lorand.  Black  Atlantic  Religion:  Tradition,  Transnationalism  and  Matriarchy  in  the 
Afiro-Brazilian  Candomble.  Princeton:  Princeton  UP,  2005.  Print. 

Mauss,  Marcel.  The  Gift:  Forms  and  Functions  of  Exchange  in  Archaic  Societies.  Trans.  Ian 
Cuninson.  New  York:  Norton,  1967.  Print. 

Munn,  Nancy.  The  Fame  ofGawa:  A Symbolic  Study  of  Value  Transformation  in  a Massim  (Papua 
New  Guinea)  Society.  Durham:  Duke  UP,  1986.  Print. 

Santos,  Juana  Elbein  dos.  Os  Nago  e a morte:  Fade,  Asese  e o culto  de  Egun  na  Bahia.  Petropolis: 
Vozes,  1986.  Print. 

Voeks,  Robert.  “Sacred  Leaves  of  Candomble.”  The  Geographical  Review .2  (1990):  1 18—131. 
Print. 

Weiner,  Annette.  Inalienable  Possessions:  The  Paradox  of  Keeping  While  Giving.  Berkeley:  U of 
California  P,  1992.  Print. 


Brian  Brazeal  is  assistant  professor  of  anthropology  at  California  State  University,  Chico. 
He  has  conducted  ethnographic  fieldwork  with  practitioners  of  Afro-Brazilian  religions  for 
over  ten  years.  He  has  published  “The  Music  of  the  Bahian  Caboclos”  in  Anthropological 
Quarterly  7 ?>{A)  Fall  2003,  “A  Goat’s  Tale:  Diabolical  Economies  of  the  Bahian  Interior”  in 
Activating  the  Past:  Latin  America  in  the  Black  Atlantic,  “Dona  Preta’s  Trek  to  Cachoeira” 
in  Africas  in  the  Americas:  Beyond  the  Search  for  Origins,  and  “The  Fetish  and  the  Stone: 
A Moral  Economy  of  Charlatans  and  Thieves”  in  Occupied  Lands,  Owned  Bodies:  The 
Work  of  Possession  in  Black  Atlantic  Religions,  forthcoming  from  the  University  of  Chicago 
Press.  He  also  directed  the  award-winning  ethnographic  documentary  “The  Cross  and 
the  Crossroads,”  Lala  and  Bala  Productions  2005.  His  current  research  focuses  on  the 
international  trade  in  emeralds.  Email:  bcbrazeal@csuchico.edu 


BRIAN  BRAZEAL 


. '■^  M 


■ i •*  ■ 


' ’>/“  * 


^ ^ — '•  WTW' 

'■'‘V.  '?“‘l  .»*'  i ^ /<« - ■^■« 


•*'  ..r'\.i 


) 


}^-  ~ 


•’  *j-  . ,- 

j i ‘^ 

.Si 

».  * PM':  w 
4-*HUt  »b  A 


, ■ ?5  ■ J • . 

- 


4 . Uii^  \ ‘J’j  fi\i  t‘t  ?r-  *i 


^Vxn^  * i-  r*-  I- 

# ■-  - 4 • »f-->">  ,r  . ■ _c:.  V -. 

f#,Vs25; ■^  ''  ' ■'‘■■■•■si**^'‘‘ '* ''---V*  *-’^  •• 


.VV, 


i-^  ,■'■■»  :■■  ":t* 

.St>;j,^.:,-;,  ..  - ,_X 


< it; 


Um  caloteiro  devoto:  A contabilidade  moral 
em  Dom  Casmurro 


Bluma  Waddington  Vilar 


Abstract.  This  essay  studies  the  metaphors,  comparisons,  images,  and 
situations  related  to  the  domain  of  money  and  accountancy  in  Machado 
de  Assis’s  Dom  Casmurro.  It  examines  how  such  tropes  and  imagery  which 
describe  emotions  and  behavior  express  a specific  view  of  the  individual 
and  of  human  actions  from  a moral  standpoint,  by  incorporating  the 
logic  of  economics  into  the  moral  and  emotional  spheres  on  the  level 
of  stylistics.  It  also  reveals  the  association  between  money  and  sterility, 
wealth  and  annihilation  of  life,  affluence  and  lack  of  children,  of  trust,  of 
happiness,  experienced  by  the  main  characters  in  this  novel. 


Este  e um  estudo  das  metaforas,  compara^oes,  imagens,  reflexoes  e situa^oes 
ligadas  ao  universo  do  dinheiro  em  Dom  Casmurro.  A exemplo  do  que  ja 
sucedia  em  Memorias  postumas,  no  setimo  romance  de  Machado  de  Assis,  as 
metaforas  pecuniarias  tambem  estao  vinculadas  ao  tema  do  favor  e ao  tema 
mais  geral  das  rela^oes  assimetricas,  ou  seja,  rela^oes  em  que  um  dos  ter- 
mos  estabelece  ou  confirma  uma  superioridade  qualquer  sobre  o outro.  Alem 
disso,  tal  repertorio  de  metaforas  contribui  decisivamente  para  que  se  formule 
nos  romances  da  maturidade  do  autor  certa  visao  do  indivfduo  e das  a^oes 
humanas  em  sua  dimensao  moral.  A analise  exposta  a seguir  permitiu  escla- 
recer  o efeito  dessas  metaforas  e figuras  sobre  os  sentimentos  e a conduta  que 
elas  descrevem,  evidenciando  como  a logica  da  economia  e incorporada  as 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  125-172. 

© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


126 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


esferas  moral  e afetiva  no  proprio  piano  do  estilo.  Ocorreria,  portanto,  uma 
contamina^ao  dessas  esferas  por  valores  mercantis,  e esse  contagio  decorreria 
menos  dos  atos  das  personagens  e das  situa^oes  por  elas  vividas  que  da  lingua- 
gem  urilizada  pelo  narrador-protagonista. 

O agregado 

Em  termos  sociais,  a diVida,  de  natureza  material  ou  moral,  introduz  assi- 
metria  na  rela^ao  entre  os  indivi'duos  ou  acentua  desigualdade  ja  existente. 
No  caso  do  favor  que  um  proprietario  rico  faz  a alguem  de  condi(;ao  social 
modesta  ou  menos  privilegiada,  ao  torna-lo  agregado  em  sua  propriedade,  a 
assimetria  previa  e refor^ada  e particularizada.  O agregado  e inferior  a classe 
dos  proprietarios  em  geral,  mas  sobretudo  a um  representante  dela  em  par- 
ticular, com  quern  fica  em  diVida.  E uma  vez  devedor,  sempre  devedor,  eis  o 
padrao.  Por  mais  que  preste  servi^os  ao  proprietario  que  o acolheu,  em  troca 
desse  favor,  o agregado  e um  eterno  inadimplente.  A diVida  situa  o benefi- 
ciado  em  posigao  nao  apenas  social,  mas  tambem  moralmente  menos  elevada 
que  a de  seu  benfeitor,  dada  a nobre  generosidade  deste  em  socorre-lod  Alem 
de  moralmente  inferior,  sua  posi^ao  e irremediavelmente  suspeita,  como 
vemos  na  passagem  a seguir,  em  que  o narrador  fala  de  Jose  Dias — retirada  de 
um  capitulo  que  se  intitula  “O  agregado,”  a diferen^a  dos  demais  capitulos 
dedicados  as  outras  pessoas  da  casa  e batizados  com  o nome  proprio  das  per- 
sonagens, “Tio  Cosme,”  “Dona  Gloria,”  “Prima  Justina”: 

Teve  iim  pequeno  legado  no  testamento,  uma  apolice  e quatro  palavras  de  louvor. 
Copiou  as  palavras,  encaixilhou-as  e pendurou-as  no  quarto,  por  cima  da  cama. 

' Esta  e a melhor  apolice,'  dizia  ele  muita  vez.  Com  o tempo,  adquiriu  certa  auto- 
ridade  na  familia,  certa  audiencia,  ao  menos;  nao  abusava,  e sabia  opinar  obede- 
cendo.  Ao  cabo,  era  amigo,  nao  direi  otimo,  mas  nem  tudo  e otimo  neste  mundo. 

E nao  Ihe  suponhas  alma  subalterna;  as  cortesias  que  fizesse  vinham  antes  do  cdlculo 
que  da  indole.  (Assis,  Dom  Casmurro  73;  italicos  nossos) 

As  palavras  indicativas  de  apre^o  sao  “a  melhor  apolice.”  No  contexto  da 
rela^ao  entre  um  agregado  e seu  protetor,  esse  tipo  de  metafora,  sem  duvida 
um  lugar-comum,  deixa  de  ser  inocuo,  nao  so  recuperando  expressividade, 
mas  ganhando  tambem  especial  relevancia.  Desse  modo,  o agregado  Jose  Dias 
equipara  algo  cujo  valor  e espiritual  aquilo  que  representa  um  valor  material 
ou,  no  vocabulario  economico-jun'dico,  um  valor  mobiliario,  isto  e,  pagavel 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 27 

ao  portador,  como  a^oes,  apolices  da  diVida  publica,  letras  de  cambio,  notas 
promissorias  e outros  papeis  ou  certificados  do  genero.  Em  suma,  tudo  sao 
apolices — e canto  a apolice  metaforica  quanto  a propriamente  dita  tern  valor  de 
mercado.  Embora  ja  fosse  eternamente  devedor  do  pai  de  Bentinho,  Jose  Dias 
possuia,  como  bom  agregado,  “o  dom  de  se  fazer  aceito  e necessario”  (73)  e aca- 
bou  ganhando  beneficios  extras,  nao  previstos  no  contrato  original,  por  assim 
dizer,  mas  acrescentados  gramas  ao  testamento.  Esse  “pequeno  legado”  da  a ele 
o gosto,  igualmente  diminuto,  de  ser  proprietario  de  duas  apolices,  uma  real  e 
outra  figurada,  vivendo,  portanto,  a experiencia  do  credor.  A primeira  apolice 
atesta  a soma  devida  pelo  Tesouro  Piiblico;  a segunda  garante,  por  determina^ao 
testamentaria  do  falecido  patriarca,  a estima  devida  pelos  Santiagos.  No  entanto, 
sabendo-se  antes  de  mais  nada  devedor,  o prudence  Jose  Dias  nao  se  permite 
esquecer  sua  fragilidade  enquanto  credor:  “[..•]  adquiriu  certa  autoridade  na 
familia,  certa  audiencia,  ao  menos;  nao  abusava,  e sabia  opinar  obedecendo.” 

No  fim  da  passagem,  o narrador  adverte  o leitor,  confirmando  a suspeita 
permanentemente  lan9ada  ate  mesmo  sobre  os  atos  e palavras  mais  louvaveis 
do  agregado,  em  decorrencia  da  posi^ao  inferior  que  este  ocupa:  “E  nao  Ihe 
suponhas  alma  subalterna;  as  cortesias  que  fizesse  vinham  antes  do  calculo 
que  da  indole.”  Tal  ressalva  constitui  um  enaltecimento  da  independencia  de 
espirito  e um  elogio  indireto  da  dissimula^ao,  da  hipocrisia,  ao  menos  como 
forma  de  resguardar  a autonomia  de  pensamento  numa  situa^ao  de  depen- 
dencia  material.  Como  estrategia  de  sobrevivencia,  o servilismo  simulado  esta 
longe  de  ser  corajoso,  mas  e defensavel:  alem  de  requerer  autocontrole  e habi- 
lidade,  favorece  a manipula^ao  ou,  no  lexico  machadiano,  o “calculo,”  talvez  o 
principal  recurso  das  personagens  do  autor  para  inverter  o efeito  das  posi^oes 
sociais,  transformando  controladores  em  controlados  e momentaneamente 
virando  em  sentido  oposto  a assimetria  da  rela^ao. 

Casamentos  e sorte  grande 

O capitulo  7,  “Dona  Gloria,”  e dedicado  a mae  de  Bentinho,  precocemente 
viuva  aos  3 1 anos,  e tambem  as  lembran^as  vagas  e falhas  que  o protagonista 
tern  do  pai  e da  vida  conjugal  de  ambos.  Nesse  capitulo,  destaco  duas  passa- 
gens.  A primeira  e esta: 

Ora,  pois,  naquele  ano  da  gra^a  de  1857,  Dona  Maria  da  Gloria  Fernandes 
Santiago  contava  quarenta  e dous  anos  de  idade.  Era  ainda  bonita  e mo(;a,  mas 
teimava  em  esconder  os  saldos  da  juventude,  por  mais  que  a natureza  quisesse 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


I 


128  PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 

preserva-la  da  agdo  do  tempo.  Vivia  metida  em  um  eterno  vestido  escuro,  sem 
adornos,  com  um  xale  preto,  dobrado  em  triangulo  e abrochado  ao  peito  por  um 
camafeu.  {Dom  Casmurro  62;  italicos  nossos) 

Aos  42  anos,  restavam  a Dona  Gloria  “saldos  da  juventude.”  Se  “saldo” 
e,  em  contabilidade,  a diferen^a  entre  receitas  e despesas,  aqui  se  trataria, 
se  quiserem,  do  remanescente  na  conta  da  mocidade  apos  os  debitos  lan- 
^ados  nela  pelo  tempo.  Por  isso  mesmo,  esse  saldo  e temporario,  devendo 
desaparecer.  Em  Memdrias  postumas,  o tempo  e figurado  como  “um  velho 
diabo”  que  subtrai  moedas  do  peciilio  da  vida,  transferindo-as  para  o saco  da 
morte,  enquanto  registra:  “ — Outra  de  menos  [...]”  (Assis  185).  Eis  a “a9ao 
do  tempo”:  gasta  a infancia,  a juventude,  a idade  madura,  a velhice,  calhando 
demorar  mais  nessa  tarefa,  no  caso  de  um,  e menos,  no  caso  de  outro.  Dai 
o provisorio  excedente  de  Dona  Gloria  no  aspecto  fisico.  O fato  de  a viiiva 
Santiago  estar  sempre  “metida  em  um  eterno  vestido  escuro”  nao  deixa  de  ser 
um  modo  de  por  no  saco  da  morte,  o mais  eterno  dos  vestidos,  “os  saldos  de 
juventude”  restantes,  abreviando  assim  o intervalo  que  ainda  a separava  do 
finado  marido.  Outra  metafora  contabil  referente  a idade  e a a9ao  temporal 
e a utilizada  pelo  Gonselheiro  no  Memorial  de  Aires  para  nao  escrever  nem 
revelar  precisamente  quantos  anos  tern:  o total  exato  “basta  que  [...]  va  sendo 
contado  pelo  Tempo  no  livro  de  lucros  e perdas”  (Assis  159).  Ou  seja,  por 
que  escrever  o montante  da  perda,  se  o tempo  ja  o registra  com  pontualidade 
britanica  no  livro  de  contabiliza9ao  da  vida. 

O vestido-ataude  da  viuva  Santiago,  essa  tentativa  simbolica  de  reduzir 
a distancia  temporal  entre  ela  e o falecido  esposo,  vinha  acompanhar  outra 
medida,  da  mesma  natureza,  para  diminuir  a distancia  espacial,  corporea, 
segundo  observamos  no  come90  do  capitulo:  Bento  esclarece  que  a mae, 
depois  de  enviuvar,  permaneceu  na  cidade  do  Rio  de  Janeiro,  em  vez  de  retor- 
nar  a fazendola  em  Itaguai,  pois  “preferiu  bear  perto  da  igreja  em  que  [s]eu  pai 
fora  sepultado”  {Dom  Casmurro  75-76).  E,  permanecendo  na  casa  de  Mata- 
cavalos,  “onde  vivera  os  dois  liltimos  anos  de  casada”  (76),  tambem  preferiu  o 
passado  recente,  ou  seja,  mais  proximo.  So  faltava  aproximar  o futuro,  dai  o 
desejo  de  impedir  que  a juventude  se  prolongasse,  de  apressar  seu  fim,  encer- 
rando-se  num  “vestido  escuro,  sem  adornos,”  cuja  inten9ao  e reiterada  por 
um  “xale  preto,”  “abrochado  ao  peito  por  um  camafeu,”  a guisa  de  cadeado. 

Embora  a fidelidade  de  Dona  Gloria  ao  marido  se  estenda  alem  da  morte  e 
seu  luto  se  eternize,  ela  esta  longe  de  desprezar  a vida:  concentra-se  no  amor  ao 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


129 


filho  e entrega-se  a administra^ao  da  casa,  a economia  domestica:  “Lidava  assim, 
com  os  seus  sapatos  de  cordavao  rasos  e surdos,  a um  lado  e outro,  vendo  e 
guiando  os  servi^os  da  casa  inteira,  desde  manha  ate  a noite.”  E onze  anos  antes, 
ao  ficar  viuva,  a mae  de  Bentinho  ja  havia  tornado  uma  serie  de  providencias  de 
natureza  economica  para  manter-se  proxima  do  falecido:  “Vendeu  a fazendola 
e os  escravos,  comprou  alguns  que  pos  ao  ganho  ou  alugou,  uma  duzia  de  pre- 
dios,  certo  numero  de  apolices,  e deixou-se  estar  na  casa  de  Matacavalos”  (76). 

A segunda  passagem  desse  mesmo  capitulo  7 que  gostaria  de  destacar  e esta 
outra:  “Tenho  ali  na  parede  o retrato  dela,  ao  lado  do  marido  [...].  O que  se  le  na 
cara  de  ambos  e que,  se  a felicidade  conjugal  pode  ser  comparada  a sorte grande, 
eles  a tiraram  no  bilhete  comprado  de  sociedade  (76;  italicos  nossos). 

O narrador  nao  deduz  a “felicidade  conjugal”  dos  pais  de  suas  rarefeitas 
lembran^as,  conforme  revela  no  paragrafo  seguinte — “Se  padeceram  moles- 
tias,  nao  sei,  como  nao  sei  se  tiveram  desgostos:  era  crian^a  e comecei  por 
nao  ser  nascido”  (76-77).  Baseia-se  sobretudo  nos  dois  retratos  pintados,  na 
“impressao”  que  Ihe  transmitem  estes,  afinal,  segundo  ele,  “valem  por  origi- 
nais,”  “[s]ao  como  fotografias  instantaneas  da  felicidade”  (77).  A expressao 
dos  pais  de  Bentinho  nesses  retratos  da  juventude  e apresentada,  desse  modo, 
quase  como  prova  documental  da  harmonia  de  seu  casamento,  comparando- 
-se  indevidamente  a natureza  posada  da  pintura  a espontaneidade  do  flagrante 
fotografico.  Alem  disso,  como  pode  o narrador  afirmar  a semelhan^a  com  um 
original  remoto  e falhado  na  memoria,  tanto  do  ponto  de  vista  do  relaciona- 
mento  do  casal  quanto  de  sua  aparencia  fisica? 

A referencia  a sorte  grande,  ao  bilhete  de  loteria  premiado,  quer  em  meta- 
foras,  quer  em  similes,  e um  cliche  utilizado  com  freqiiencia  por  Machado. 
Em  Dom  Casmurro,  aparece  mais  tres  vezes  (duas  compara^oes  associadas  a meta- 
foras,  no  capitulo  52,  “O  velho  Padua,”  e no  capitulo  134,  “O  dia  de  sabado;”  e 
uma  metafora  no  capitulo  63,  “Metades  de  um  sonho”)  e duas  vezes  em  situates 
que  envolvem  bilhetes  de  loteria  (uma  concreta,  no  capitulo  16,  “O  administra- 
dor  interino,”  e outra  onirica,  no  capitulo  63,  “Metades  de  um  sonho”). 

Na  segunda  passagem  do  capitulo  7,  citada  acima,  o narrador  compara  a 
“sorte  grande”  (o  premio  maior  da  loteria)  a felicidade  conjugal  e menciona 
que  Dona  Gloria  e o marido  “a  tiraram  no  bilhete  comprado  de  sociedade.” 
Em  sentido  figurado,  a expressao  “tirar  a sorte  grande”  significa  tanto  “enri- 
quecer  de  modo  repentino  ou  imprevisivel”  quanto  “ser  muito  afortunado 
em  determinadas  circunstancias”  (Aurelio).  O exemplo  mais  corriqueiro  desse 
ultimo  significado  diz  respeito  a institui^ao  do  casamento,  segundo  ilustram 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


130 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


nossos  dicionarios:  “Tiroii  a sorte  grande,  com  o marido  que  tern!”  {Aureli6)\ 
“com  aquele  casamento,  ele  rirou  a sorte  grande”  {Houaiss).  Embora  consti- 
tiiam  elogios  ao  marido  on  a mulher  eleita,  nao  e incomum  ouvir  tais  frases  no 
primeiro  sentido,  como  insiniia^oes  do  carater  venal,  mercenario  de  um  dos 
consortes.  Individualmente,  os  futuros  pais  de  Bentinho  ja  haviam  “tirado  a 
sorte  grande,”  por  terem  nascido  em  familias  ricas.  E a uniao  de  duas  condi- 
^oes  privilegiadas  sem  duvida  e uma  fortuna  ainda  maior.  Porem  o narrador 
ja  estabelece  de  sai'da  a correspondencia  entre  “felicidade  conjugal”  e “sorte 
grande,”  qiiando  bastaria  o uso  do  plural  “eles  a tiraram,”  para  entendermos 
que  se  trata  de  sentimentos  sinceros  e nao  inconfessaveis.  Nao  ha  um  sor- 
tudo,  mas  sim  dois  premiados  na  “sociedade”  em  questao,  isto  e,  um  casa- 
mento religioso,  linico  com  validade  juridica  numa  epoca  anterior  a separa^ao 
entre  Igreja  e Estado  no  Brasil.  O termo  “sociedade,”  entretanto,  e comum  ao 
direito  civil  e ao  direito  comercial.^  De  qualquer  modo,  importa  ressaltar  que 
a escolha  de  metafora  ligada  a esfera  do  dinheiro  cria  uma  ambigiiidade.  Pode 
sugerir  um  casamento  originalmente  motivado  por  razoes  de  ordem  econo- 
mica e de  prestigio  social,  pois  unia  “Pedro  de  Albuquerque  Santiago”  {Dom 
Casmurro  75)  e Maria  da  Gloria,  “filha  de  uma  senhora  mineira,  descendente 
de  outra  paulista,  a familia  Fernandes”  (76).  Em  casamentos  desse  tipo,  o 
amor  e uma  aposta  tao  incerta  quanto  um  bilhete  de  loteria. 

Mas  a metafora  utilizada  pode  tambem  indicar  uma  uniao  entre  criaturas  ja 
enamoradas,  cujo  romantismo  os  interesses  socioeconomicos  so  teriam  fortale- 
cido.  Em  A Princesa  de  Cleves,  Mme.  de  Lafayette  explicitava:  num  meio  como  a 
corte  de  Henrique  II,  na  Franca  do  seculo  XVI,  “I’amour  etait  toujours  mele  aux 
affaires  et  les  affaires  a I’amour.”'^  Casamento  era  em  primeiro  lugar  um  nego- 
cio,  quando  nao  um  assunto  de  Estado.  Na  escolha  matrimonial,  guardadas 
as  diferengas  entre  a nobreza  quinhentista  francesa  e a alta  burguesia  brasileira 
do  Imperio,  considera^oes  socials  e economicas  sempre  precederam  motivos  de 
qualquer  outra  ordem,  exceto  os  politicos,  as  razoes  de  Estado. 

Ja  nas  unices  realizadas  no  seio  da  pequena  burguesia,  como  e o caso  dos  pais 
de  Capitu,  nao  ha  fortunas  a somar  ou  dividir,  mas  antes  infortiinios,  dai  a iro- 
nia  do  nome  da  mae  da  personagem.  Dona  Fortunata,  casada  com  um  modes- 
tissimo  funcionario  publico,  segundo  nos  informa  o narrador  no  capitulo  16: 

Padua  era  empregado  em  reparti^ao  dependente  do  Ministerio  da  Guerra.  Nao 

ganhava  muito,  mas  a mulher  gastava  pouco,  e a vida  era  barata.  Demais,  a casa 

em  que  morava,  assobradada  como  a nossa,  posto  que  menor,  era  propriedade 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  131 

dele.  ComproLi-a  com  a sorte  grande  que  Ihe  saiu  num  meio  bilhete  de  loteria,  dez 

contos  de  reis.  {Dom  Casmurro  88;  italicos  nossos) 

Com  o premio,  Padua  quis  “atir[ar]-se  as  despesas  superfluas,”  repetindo 
o que  fizera  ao  substituir  interinamente  o administrador  de  sua  reparti^ao,  e 
ganhar  os  honorarios  do  novo  cargo.  A mulher,  porem,  aconselhou-o  a “com- 
prar  a casa  e guardar  o que  sobrasse  para  acudir  as  molestias  grandes.”  Depois 
de  muito  hesitar,  Padua  enfim  cedeu  ao  alvitre  da  mae  de  Bentinho,  a quern 
Dona  Fortunata  apelara:  nao  “deu  joias  a mulher,”  nao  “foi  visto  em  teatros,” 
nem  “chegou  aos  sapatos  de  verniz”  (89),  como  antes.  O narrador  faz  ques- 
tao  de  recordar  o episodio  anterior,  enfatizando  assim  a vaidade  do  vizinho 
e a solicitude  materna  ja  naquela  oportunidade.  A ambi^ao  tolhida  do  pai 
de  Capitu  e seu  desejo  frustrado  de  ostentar  ficam  evidentes,  em  todo  o seu 
ridi'culo,  quando  ele  se  lastima  a Dona  Gloria.  Declara-se  pronto  a cometer 
suicidio,  por  nao  suportar  a humilha9ao  decorrente  da  perda  de  um  cargo 
“temporario” — nao  admitia  a vergonha  de  descer  na  escala  social,  retornando 
com  a familia  ao  patamar  dos  remediados. 

No  capftulo  52,  “O  velho  Padua,”  o pai  de  Capitu,  vai  a casa  dos  San- 
tiagos  despedir-se  de  Bentinho,  as  vesperas  da  ida  deste  para  o seminario. 

Talvez  julgando  haver  o dedo  de  Jose  Dias  no  cumprimento  da  promessa  de 
Dona  Gloria,  que  destinara  o filho  a vida  eclesiastica,  Padua  assegura  a grande 
estima  de  sua  familia  pelo  rapaz  e menciona  possiveis  intrigas,  cuja  autoria 
acaba  imputando,  sem  maiores  sutilezas,  ao  agregado.  Busca  mostrar-se  eco- 
nomica e moralmente  superior  ao  inimigo,  embora  menos  bem-sucedido  em 
seus  propositos:  “Nao,  eu  nao  sou  como  outros,  certos  parasitas,  vindos  de 
fora  para  desuniao  das  familias,  aduladores  baixos,  nao;  eu  sou  de  outra  espe- 
cie;  nao  vivo  papando  os  jantares  nem  morando  em  casa  alheia...  Enfim,  sao 
os  mais  felizes!”  (I4l). 

Finda  a esperan^a  de  que  o namoro  entre  a filha  e Bentinho  prosperasse  em 
casamento,  Padua  agarra-se  a possibilidade  de  la90s  posti^os,  extraoficiais,  entre 
sua  familia  e Bentinho.  Nao  podendo  ser  sogro,  propoe  ao  jovem  Santiago  outra 
associa9ao,  sem  deixar  de  reconhecer  prudentemente  sua  inferioridade  social: 

“ — Mas,  como  ia  dizendo,  se  algum  dia  perder  os  seus  parentes,  pode  contar 
com  a nossa  companhia.  Nao  e suficiente  em  importdncia,  mas  a afei9ao  e imensa, 
creia.  Padre  que  sej a,  a nossa  casa  esta  as  suas  ordens”  (141-42;  italicos  nossos). 

Pobres  em  dinheiro  e prestigio,  os  Paduas  ofereceriam  a compensa9ao  da 
riqueza  afetiva.  Para  quern  sempre  acalentou  o sonho  da  ascensao  social,  o 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


132 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


ingrcsso  de  Bentinho  no  seminario  e Lim  duro  golpe:  “Tinha  os  olhos  limi- 
dos  deveras;  levava  a cara  dos  desenganados,  como  quern  empregou  em  um 
so  bilhcte  todas  as  suas  economias  de  esperan^as,  e ve  sair  branco  o maldito 
niimero,  — um  niimero  tao  bonito!”  (142). 

Nada  tern  de  inocente  essa  compara^ao  com  o apostador  que  investe  tudo 
de  que  dispoe  num  bilhete  loterico,  quantia  expressa  pela  metafora  “todas 
as  suas  economias  de  esperan9as,”  em  que  o sentimento  subjetivo  de  confiar 
na  realiza^ao  de  um  desejo  ganha  materialidade  de  moeda,  gramas  ao  uso  do 
plural  “economias.”  O segundo  plural  “esperan^as”  apenas  reitera  tal  concre- 
tude.  Mediante  a compara^ao  e a metafora  monetarias,  o narrador  desquali- 
fica  a afei^ao  propalada  pelo  pai  de  Capitu,  porque,  nesse  caso,  a esperan^a 
de  tirar  a sorte  grande  pode  ter  um  obvio  sentido  pecuniario.  Dai  a “beleza” 
do  niimero  do  bilhete,  tao  bonito  como  o sonhado  casamento  com  Benti- 
nho ou  como  o proprio  noivo  potencial,  cuja  formosura  e assinalada  mais  de 
uma  vez."^  Antes,  cabe  lembrar,  a atitude  interesseira  de  Padua  so  havia  sido 
apontada  por  Jose  Dias.^  Aqui,  o proprio  narrador  endossa  o diagnostico  do 
agregado.  Reduzindo  o afeto  a conveniencia,  aviltando  o pai  de  seu  eterno 
objeto  de  amor  e odio,  Dom  Casmurro  atinge  tambem  Capitu.  Se  a fruta  ja 
estava  dentro  da  casca,  se  a Capitu  adulta  ja  estava  na  Capitu  menina,  aqui 
e SLigerido  precisamente  se  nao  um  trago  hereditario,  ao  menos  um  modelo 
familiar  de  comportamento,  a influencia  do  ambiente  em  que  fora  educada. 
E os  maus  exemplos  domesticos  nao  se  limitam  a figura  paterna.  Sugestao 
semelhante,  embora  mais  sutil,  tambem  e feita  em  rela^ao  a mae.  No  capitulo 
34,  “Sou  homem!,”  Dona  Fortunata  entra  na  sala  onde  Capitu  e Bentinho 
tinham  acabado  de  dar  seu  primeiro  beijo,  na  famosa  cena  do  penteado.  Uma 
vez  que  passos  no  corredor  tinham  anunciado  a aproxima(;ao  da  mae,  Capitu, 
ja  recomposta  e sem  o menor  embara^o,  mostra-se  ate  capaz  de  zombar  da 
inabilidade  de  Bentinho  como  cabeleireiro.  Igualmente  inabil  em  disfar^ar 
sua  como^ao,  o adolescente  permanece  mudo  diante  de  ambas.  Ao  narrar  o 
episodio,  Dom  Casmurro,  bem  mais  versado,  nao  deixa  de  realgar  o contraste 
entre  a perturba9ao,  a impericia  de  Bentinho  e a desenvoltura,  o talento  dissi- 
mulador  de  Capitu,  que  nao  faria  mais  do  que  seguir  o exemplo  materno.  Eis 
como  o narrador  descreve  a rea^ao  de  Dona  Fortunata  as  explica^oes  da  jovem 
sobre  o que  ali  se  passara  em  sua  ausencia:  “Olhava  com  ternura  para  mim 
e para  ela.  Depois,  parece-me  que  desconfioLi.  Vendo-me  calado,  enfiado, 
cosido  a parede,  achou  talvez  que  houvera  entre  nos  algo  mais  que  penteado, 
e sorriu  por  dissimulagdo.."'  (1 16;  italicos  nossos). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 33 

Tal  mae,  tal  filha.  Seja  herdada,  seja  copiada,  a capacidade  de  autocontrole  e 
dissimula^ao  e a caractenstica  que  o narrador  procura  sublinhar  em  Capitu,  nem 
sempre  de  maneira  negativa  a primeira  vista,  embora,  ao  atribuir-lhe  essa  fei9ao 
precoce,  esteja  preparando  a fiitura  acusa^ao  de  adulterio,  que  partita  dessa  pre- 
missa  do  fingimento,  entre  outras.  E inevitavel  lembrar  a celebre  advertencia  do 
pai  de  Desdemona  a Otelo,  quando  descobre  que  a filha  casou  sem  seu  consenti- 
mento:  “Abre  teus  olhos,  Mouro,  e se  bem  cauteloso:  Se  ela  enganou  o pai,  pode 
enganar  o esposo”  (Shakespeare,  Otelo  63).  Ou  seja,  se  Capitu  dissimulava  em 
menina,  que  dira  depois  de  adulta  e experiente.  Alias,  no  capftulo  32,  anterior  ao 
do  primeiro  beijo  e no  qual  o narrador  formula  a cdebre  metafora  dos  “olhos  de 
ressaca,”  Bentinho  fita  Capitu  justamente  para  ver  se  ela  possufa  mesmo  “olhos 
de  cigana  oblfqua  e dissimulada,”  como  afirmara  Jose  Dias. 

Passemos  entao  a “situa9ao  onfrica,”  que  inclui  um  bilhete  de  loteria, 
e a “metafora  da  sorte  grande,”  presentes  no  capftulo  63,  “Metades  de  um 
sonho.”  Esse  sonho  e efeito  do  segundo  abalo  que  sofreu  o amor  de  Bentinho 
por  Capitu,  com  a maldosa  resposta  de  Jose  Dias,  futuro  lago  arrependido,  a 
indaga^ao  do  jovem  seminarista  sobre  a mo^a:  “Aquilo  enquanto  nao  pegar 
um  peralta  da  vizinhan^a  que  case  com  ela...”  Desperta  assim  em  Bentinho 
“um  sentimento  cruel  e desconhecido,  o puro  ciume”  {Dom  Casmurro  157), 
segundo  identifica  o proprio  narrador.  Vamos  ao  sonho: 

Quanto  ao  sonho  foi  isto.  Como  estivesse  a espiar  os  peraltas  da  vizinhan9a,  vi 
um  destes  que  conversava  com  a minha  amiga  ao  pe  da  janela.  Corri  ao  lugar,  ele 
fugiu;  avancei  para  Capitu,  mas  nao  estava  so,  tinha  o pai  ao  pe  de  si,  enxugando 
os  olhos  e mirando  um  triste  bilhete  de  loteria.  Nao  me  parecendo  isto  claro,  ia 
pedir  a explica^ao,  quando  ele  de  si  mesmo  a deu;  o peralta  fora  levar-lhe  a lista 
dos  premios  da  loteria,  e o bilhete  saira  branco.  Tinha  o niimero  4004.  Disse-me 
que  esta  simetria  de  algarismos  era  misteriosa  e bela,  e provavelmente  a roda 
andara  mal;  era  impossivel  que  nao  devesse  ter  a sorte  grande.  Enquanto  ele  falava, 

Capitu  dava-me  com  os  olhos  todas  as  sortes  grandes  e pequenas.  A maior  destas  devia 
ser  dada  com  a boca.  E aqui  entra  a segunda  parte  do  sonho.  Padua  desapareceu, 
como  as  suas  esperan^as  do  bilhete,’  Capitu  inclinou-se  para  fora,  eu  relanceei 
os  olhos  pela  rua,  estava  deserta.  Peguei-lhe  nas  maos,  resmunguei  nao  sei  que 
palavras,  e acordei  sozinho  no  dormitorio.  (159;  italicos  nossos) 

Ao  contrario  do  casal  Santiago — os  “dois  bem  casados  de  outrora,  os  bem- 
-amados,  os  bem-aventurados,  que  se  foram  desta  para  a outra  vida,  continuar 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


134 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


urn  sonho  provavelmente”  (76;  italico  nosso) — , ao  menos  na  visao  de  Dom 
Casmurro,  o casal  Bentinho-Capitu  nao  teve  a mesma  felicidade.  Fadado  a 
tcrminar,  sen  sonho  amoroso  e interrompido  a primeira  vez  pela  ida  do  rapaz 
para  o seminario,  conforme  decidira  sua  mae  numa  promessa,  deliberada- 
mente  relembrada  por  Jose  Dias  e cujo  cumprimento  o agregado  a princi'pio 
incentiva.  No  sonho,  o ciume  se  manifesta,  mas  nao  o impede  de  viver  um 
breve  idi'lio  com  Capitu.  Esse  coloquio  amoroso,  exclusivamente  visual,  pro- 
mete  outro  mais  proximo  e palatavel:  “Enquanto  ele  falava,  Capitu  dava-me 
com  os  olhos  todas  as  sortes  grandes  e pequenas.  A maior  destas  devia  ser 
dada  com  a boca.”  Mas  o sonho  bruscamente  se  interrompe,  e Bentinho  nao 
obtem  o premio  maior  do  beijo,  embora  ja  segurasse  as  maos  de  Capitu  nas 
suas  e estivessem  sos.  Essa  interrup^ao  tanto  repetiria,  no  piano  onirico,  o 
obstaculo  provisorio  da  ida  para  o seminario  quanto  prefiguraria  o fracasso 
definitivo  da  rela^ao  do  casal  algum  tempo  depois  do  casamento,  quando  o 
ciiime  se  converte  em  obstaculo  intranspomVel,  capaz  de  envenenar  o amor  e 
inviabilizar  a vida  conjugal.  Coincidentemente,  no  livro,  os  casamentos  feli- 
zes  ou  bem-sucedidos,  ao  menos  do  ponto  de  vista  funcional,  sao  aqueles  em 
que  nao  ha  assimetria  socioeconomica  entre  os  esposos,  sao  casamentos  entre 
pares  nesse  sentido  particular.  Nessa  categoria,  estariam  o casal  Santiago,  o 
casal  Padua,  como  vimos,  e,  por  fim,  o casal  Escobar.  A simetria  acha-se  ape- 
nas  no  niimero  do  bilhete  sonhado,  4004,  nao  na  realidade  social  de  Bento 
e Capitu.  Quando  o sonho  acaba,  restam  os  fatos  e tambem  os  equiVocos 
reais.  A simetria  inexistente  no  piano  socioeconomico  na  verdade  poderia 
ser  apontada  no  modo  como  se  inicia  e se  encerra  a relaQo  amorosa  dos  pro- 
tagonistas.  Nesse  caso,  porem,  nao  se  trata  de  uma  circunstancia  propkia  a 
harmonia  do  casal,  cuja  relaQo  come9aria  nao  num  duo,  mas  sim  num  quar- 
tern— Capitu-Bentinho-Dona  Gloria-Jose  Dias — , e chegaria  ao  fim  noutro 
quartern,  Bentinho-Capitu-Escobar-Ezequiel,  talvez  menos  objetivo  que  o 
primeiro,  exceto  para  Dom  Casmurro.^ 

A pobreza  cantada  num  pregao 

No  capitulo  1 8,  “Um  piano,”  quando  Bentinho  enfim  comunica  a Capitu 
que  entrara  no  seminario,  sucede  um  episodio  significativo  com  um  vende- 
dor  ambulante  de  cocadas.  O preto  que  as  apregoava  oferece  a mercadoria  a 
Capitu,  esta  recusa  e manda-o  embora.  Bentinho  ainda  assim  compra  duas, 
mas  termina  por  come-las  sozinho: 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 35 

Vi  que  em  meio  da  crise,  eu  conservava  um  canto  para  as  cocadas  a minha 
amiga,  apesar  de  equilibrada  e liicida,  nao  quis  saber  de  doce,  e gostava  muito  de 
doce.  Ao  contrario,  o pregao  que  o preto  foi  cantando,  o pregao  das  velhas  tardes, 
tao  sabido  do  bairro  e da  nossa  infancia: 

Chora,  menina,  chora 
Chora,  porque  nao  tern 
Vintem, 

a modo  que  Ihe  deixara  uma  impressao  aborrecida.  Da  toada  nao  era;  ela  a sabia 
de  cor  e de  longe,  usava  repeti-la  nos  nossos  jogos  da  puerkia,  rindo,  saltando, 
trocando  os  papeis  comigo,  ora  vendendo,  ora  comprando  um  doce  ausente. 

Creio  que  a letra,  destinada  a picar  a vaidade  das  crian^as,  foi  que  a enojou  agora, 
porque  logo  depois  me  disse: 

— Se  eu  fosse  rica,  voce  fugia,  metia-se  no  paquete  e ia  para  a Europa.  {Dom 
Casmurro  93-94) 

Mais  uma  vez,  enfatiza-se  a assimetria  social  entre  a familia  Padua  e a 
familia  Santiago,  e a consciencia  que  tern  Capitu  dessa  inferioridade  socioe- 
conomica e suas  implica^oes.  O episodio  ecoa  o fim  do  capitulo  52,  quando 
Padua,  ao  despedir-se  do  futuro  seminarista,  aparenta  uma  tristeza  que  o nar- 
rador  maliciosamente  associa  (pois  nao  o faz  de  forma  direta  como  Jose  Dias, 
preferindo  a linguagem  metaforica)  a desilusao  de  perder  a unica  chance  de 
conseguir  um  genro  rico,  para  sempre  desperdi^ado  no  sacerdocio.  Apesar  do 
descontrole  e da  franqueza  de  sua  rea^ao  inicial  a notkia,  quando  se  enfurece 
contra  Dona  Gloria,  a quern  chama  de  “beata,”  “carola”  e “papa-missas”  (91), 

Capitu  e bem  mais  controlada,  inteligente  e habil  que  o pai.  Nao  chora,  mas 
fica  contrariada  em  ver  sua  situa<;ao  pessoal  descrita  num  pregao,  desde  a 
infancia  tao  familiar,  tao  conhecido  no  bairro.  A inesperada  semelhan^a  expoe 
de  forma  crua  e dolorosa  sua  condi^ao  social  e sua  impotencia  para  muda-la: 
para  escapar  as  limita^oes  materials,  culturais,  sentimentais  e morals  por  ela 
implicadas.  Naquele  momento,  a oportunidade  de  mudan^a,  isto  e,  a possibi- 
lidade  de  ascensao  social  pelo  casamento,  estava  seriamente  amea9ada. 

E revelador  o modo  como  Capitu  se  mostra  inconformada  com  a reso- 
lu9ao  de  Dona  Gloria  de  mandar  Bentinho  para  o seminario  e com  sua  pro- 
pria situa9ao:  “ — Se  eu  fosse  rica,  voce  fugia,  metia-se  no  paquete  e ia  para  a 
Europa.”  Capitu  nao  diz  “nos  fugiamos,”  mas  “voce  fugia.”  E possiVel  enten- 
der  esse  uso  do  “voce”  em  lugar  do  “nos”  como  um  sinal  de  desprendimento, 
de  amor  altrui'sta,  pois,  na  ausencia  de  uma  voca9ao  religiosa,  o fundamental 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


136 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


seria  livrar  Bentinho  da  carreira  eclesiastica.  No  entanto,  tambem  e possiVel 
inrerpreta-Io  de  modo  essencialmente  egoista,  ja  qiie  a riqueza,  alem  de  poder 
Hnanciar  a tuga  para  a Europa,  permitiria  a Capitu  dispensar  orgulhosamente 
o casamento  com  Lim  noivo  rico.  Nessa  liltima  hipotese,  ela  preferiria  vingar- 
-se  da  mac  de  Bentinho,  mediante  o afastamento  geografico  do  filho,  em  vez 
de  roLiba-lo  a rival  casando-se  com  ele,  on  seja,  rouba-lo  por  intermedio  da 
mesma  Igreja  a que  rccorrera  Dona  Gloria  para  tira-lo  dela.  Nesse  caso,  abrir 
mao  do  matrimonio  com  Bentinho  significaria  que  superar  sua  fragil  e pre- 
caria  condi^ao  de  classe  e mais  importante  que  viver  o amor  pelo  amigo  de 
infancia.  Se  Capitu  fosse  rica,  isto  e,  se  fosse  um  excelente  partido,  esse  amor 
talvez  nao  passasse  de  uma  grande  afei^ao,  uma  vez  que  ela  teria  outros  pre- 
tendentes,  tao  ou  mais  cultos  e endinheirados  que  o filho  de  Dona  Gloria. 
Enfim,  o eleito  seria  de  fato  uma  escolha,  nao  a linica  salva^ao.^ 

No  tocante  a tematica  do  dinheiro  e das  circunstancias  e interesses  econo- 
micos,  cumpre  mencionar  o ensaio  '"Dom  Casmurro  e os  farrapos  de  textos,” 
de  Wellington  de  Almeida  Santos,  no  qual  o autor  estuda  “aspectos  da  micro- 
estrutura  narrativa,”  em  “tres  areas  semanticas  distintas  {status  soci2i\,  erotismo 
e religiao).”^  Almeida  Santos  comenta  o episodio  do  vendedor  de  cocadas  e 
observa  que  a toada  do  pregao  atravessa  toda  a vida  de  Bento  Santiago — 
— “infancia,  adolescencia,  maturidade  e a propria  velhice  de  Dom  Casmurro.” 
O autor  discute  as  repetidas  referencias  ao  pregao  nos  capftulos  60,  “Querido 
opusculo,”  110,  “Rasgos  da  infancia,”  e 114,  “Em  que  se  explica  o expli- 
cado.”  Desse  ultimo  capftulo  serao  analisadas  mais  adiante  duas  passagens 
cujas  metaforas  economicas  importa  ressaltar. 

Ezequiel,  herdeiro  de... 

Por  ora,  examinemos  o capftulo  1 10,  dedicado  a episodios  da  infancia  de  Eze- 
quiel, ou  seja,  da  vida  dos  protagonistas  ja  casados  e pais  de  um  menino  de  cinco 
anos.  Nesse  capftulo,  o narrador  ja  demonstra  a tendencia  a associar  comporta- 
mentos  e caracterfsticas  do  filho  a mae  e a seu  amigo  Escobar,  real^ando  exclu- 
sivamente  semelhan^as  entre  os  tres.  Vejamos  o segundo  paragrafo  do  capftulo: 

Aos  cinco  e seis  anos,  Ezequiel  nao  parecia  desmentir  os  meus  sonhos  da  Praia  da 
Gloria;  ao  contrario,  adivinhavam-se  nele  todas  as  vocaqoes  possfveis,  desde  vadio 
ate  apostolo.  Vadio  e aqui  posto  no  bom  sentido,  no  sentido  de  homem  que  pensa 
e cala;  metia-se  as  vezes  consigo,  e nisto  fazia  lembrar  a mae,  desde  pequena.  Assim 
tambem,  agitava-se  todo  e instava  por  ir  persuadir  as  vizinhas  que  os  doces  que 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 37 

eu  Ihe  trazia  eram  doces  deveras;  nao  o fazia  antes  de  farto  deles,  mas  tambem 
os  apostolos  nao  levam  a boa  doutrina  senao  depois  de  a terem  toda  no  cora^ao. 

Escobar,  bom  negociante,  opinava  que  a causa  principal  desta  outra  inclinagao,  tal- 
vez  fosse  convidar  implicitamente  as  vizinhas  a igual  apostolado,  quando  os  pais  Ihe 
trouxessem  doces;  e ria-se  da  propria  gra^a,  e anunciava-me  que  o faria  sen  socio. 

{Dom  Casmurro  217;  italicos  nossos) 

No  leque  de  inclina^oes  do  filho,  o narrador  identifica  a voca^ao  para 
“vadio,”  num  extremo,  e para  “apostolo,”  no  outro.  “Vadio”  e termo  cujas 
acep^oes  sao  quase  todas  negativas,  excetuando-se  talvez  aquela  em  que  e sino- 
nimo  de  “vagabundo,”  no  sentido  de  individuo  “que  leva  uma  vida  errante; 
que  vagueia,”  como  registra  o didonario  Aurdio  (1999).  No  entanto,  ate  esse 
nomadismo  pode  ter  conota^oes  reprovaveis,  se  pensarmos  em  individuos, 
grupos  ou  povos  itinerantes,  como  os  ciganos,  e na  reputa^ao  geralmente 
associada  a eles.  Na  epoca  de  Machado,  a palavra  podia  nao  ter  carater  tao 
pejorativo  quanto  possui  hoje,  mas  era  obviamente  depreciativa.  Do  contra- 
rio,  nao  se  justificaria  a especifica^ao:  “Vadio  e aqui  posto  no  bom  sentido,  no 
sentido  de  homem  que  pensa  e cala.”  Se  bom  sentido  ha,  decerto  nao  e este, 
inventado  pelo  narrador — alias,  muito  semelhante  ao  que  ja  inventara  para 
o termo  “casmurro,”  no  primeiro  capitulo,  no  qual  explica  o titulo  do  livro: 

“Nao  consultes  dicionarios.  Casmurro  nao  esta  aqui  no  sentido  que  eles  Ihe 
dao,  mas  no  que  Ihe  pos  o vulgo  de  homem  calado  e metido  consigo.”^ 

Mas,  se  reconhece  ter  “habitos  reclusos  e calados,”  que  desagradam  aos 
vizinhos,  responsaveis  por  ter  dado  curso  a alcunha  de  “Dom  Casmurro,” 
por  que  apontar,  nessa  atitude  de  “meter-se  consigo,”  uma  semelhan^a  apenas 
com  a mae?  Talvez  porque,  alem  do  habito  de  ensimesmar-se,  refletir,  que  o 
ocio  do  “vadio”  permitiria  cultivar,  estao  em  jogo  as  verdadeiras  acep^oes  do 
termo.  Se  considerarmos  “vadio”  o individuo  entregue  a “vadiagem,”  estare- 
mos  falando  de  uma  contraven^ao  penal  no  vocabulario  juridico  brasileiro 
contemporaneo.  Sem  esquecer  correlatos  indesejaveis  como  “cigano,”  no  sen- 
tido figurado  de  “individuo  boemio,  erradio,  de  vida  incerta”  {Aurelid)  e nos 
usos  pejorativos  de  “aquele  que  trapaceia;  velhaco,  burlador”  e “aquele  que  faz 
barganha,  que  e apegado  ao  dinheiro;  agiota,  sovina”  (Houaiss).  Nessa  passa- 
gem,  entao,  o narrador  teria  encontrado  uma  forma  obliqua  e dissimulada 
de  repisar  a defini^ao  que  deu  Jose  Dias  dos  olhos  e do  carater  supostamente 
trai^oeiro  de  Capitu.  E nao  so  pela  via  indireta  do  termo  “vadio.”  Ate  quando 
parece  designar  o ato  da  reflexao,  tambem  esta  aludindo  a dissimula9ao. 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


138 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Afinal,  qiicm  “pensa”  a respeito  de  algum  assiinto  e “cala”  sua  opiniao,  com 
silencio  on  palavras,  nao  esta  dissimiilando?  Ai  residiria  a diferen^a  entre  a for- 
niLila  com  qiie  descreve  a si  mesmo — “homem  calado  e metido  consigo” — e a 
formula  utilizada  para  definir  Ezeqiiiel — “homem  que  pensa  e cala,”  formula 
aplicavel  tambem  a Escobar  e Capitu,  pois  a reflexao,  aqui  desvirtuada  em  fin- 
gimento  e logro,  e caracteristica  creditada  a ambos  pelo  narrador.  Em  suma, 
a primeira  formula^ao  seria  moralmente  neutra,  por  assim  dizer,  limitando-se 
ao  ensimesmamento;  ja  a segunda  se  revelaria  ambigua,  equiVoca,  astuciosa. 

No  extremo  oposto  ao  do  “vadio”  no  arco  das  voca^oes  de  Ezequiel,  o nar- 
rador situa  o apostolo.  Claro,  se  o “vadio”  e o que  “pensa  e cala,”  o apostolo  e o 
que  ere  e fala.  Fala  para  defender  a causa  em  que  ere,  seja  a difusao  da  palavra 
de  Deus,  da  fe  crista,  como  no  caso  dos  doze  discipulos,  seja  quaJquer  outra 
causa,  inclusive  a sua  propria,  o interesse  pessoal  e,  em  principio,  intransferi- 
vel — ao  menos  ate  persuadir  outros  de  que  tambem  tern  a ganhar  em  favorecer 
o apostolo,  ainda  que  na  realidade  nao  tenham,  ou  que  se  trate  de  uma  troca 
de  favores,  que  acabara  por  beneficiar  tanto  ao  pregador  quanto  aos  que  Ihe 
derem  ouvidos.  Assim,  o narrador  conta  em  tom  blasfematorio  o empenho  do 
filho  em  convencer  as  vizinhas  a provar  os  doces  trazidos  pelo  pai,  uma  vez 
que  ja  se  fartara  de  tanto  come-los,  e,  desse  modo,  daria  a eles  uma  utilidade, 
fazendo-os  render:  serviriam  para  “convidar  as  vizinhas  a igual  apostolado”  e 
realizar  o milagre  da  multiplicaq:ao  das  guloseimas.  Blasfemias  a parte,  como 
“bom  negociante,”  Escobar  logo  reconheceu  o talento  mercantil  de  Ezequiel  e, 
com  bom  humor,  declarou-se  disposto  a oferecer-lhe  sociedade  nos  negocios. 
O tino  comercial  seria  mais  uma  semelhan^a  entre  o filho  e o melhor  amigo. 

Dessa  maneira,  o narrador-protagonista  afasta  habilmente  as  afinidades 
entre  ele  e Ezequiel  que  tanto  o polo  do  vadio  quanto  o do  apostolo  poderiam 
sugerir.  Recordemos  o pecado  capital  por  ele  admitido  no  capftulo  20,  vkio 
assegurado  sem  maiores  restri^oes  apenas  a membros  da  aben^oada  elite  pro- 
prietaria,  como  Bento  Santiago:  “Mas  vao  la  matar  a pregui^a  de  uma  alma 
que  a trazia  do  ber^o  e nao  a sentia  atenuada  pela  vida!”  (Dom  Casmurro  96). 
Salvo  engano,  aqui  se  afirma,  entre  outras  coisas,  uma  voca^ao  para  vadio. 
Recordemos,  por  outro  lado,  o treinamento  precoce  para  o sacerdocio  cato- 
lico,  ainda  que  pouco  ortodoxo,  a ponto  de  incluir  outro  pecado  capital  e 
largas  doses  de  profana9ao: 


Em  casa,  brincava  de  missa,  — um  tanto  as  escondidas,  porque  minha  mae  dizia 
que  missa  nao  era  cousa  de  brincadeira.  Arranjavamos  um  altar,  Capitu  e eu.  Ela 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


139 


servia  de  sacristao,  e alteravamos  o ritual,  no  sentido  de  dividirmos  a hostia  entre 
nos;  a hostia  era  sempre  urn  doce.  No  tempo  em  que  brincavamos  assim,  era  muito 
comum  ouvir  a minha  vizinha:  ‘Hoje  ha  missa?’  Eu  ja  sabia  o que  isto  queria 
dizer,  respondia  afirmativamente,  e ia  pedir  hostia  por  outro  nome.  Voltava  com 
ela,  arranjavamos  o altar,  engrolavamos  o latim  e precipitavamos  as  cerimonias. 
Dominus,  non  sum  dignus...  Isto,  que  eu  devia  dizer  tres  vezes,  penso  que  so  dizia 
uma,  tal  era  a gulodice  do  padre  e do  sacristao.  Nao  bebiamos  vinho  nem  agua;  nao 
tmhamos  o primeiro,  e a segunda  viria  tirar-nos  o gosto  do  sacrificio.  (8 1 ) 

Ainda  no  capitulo  1 10,  e preciso  assinalar  a exorta^ao  de  Bento  a Capita: 
quer  que  ela  toque  para  Ezequiel  ao  piano  o pregao  do  vendedor  de  cocadas  de 
Matacavalos.  Capita  havia  esquecido  a toada,  nao  guardara  a melodia  nem  as 
palavras.  Bento  tampouco.  Mas,  como  um  professor  de  miisica  em  Sao  Paulo 
fizera-lhe  o obsequio  de  transcreve-la,  recorreu  a esse  registro,  e Capita  pode 
mostrar  a toada  ao  filho;  “Capita  achou  a toada  um  sabor  particular,  quase 
delicioso'y  contou  ao  filho  a historia  do  pregao,  e assim  o cantava  e teclava.  Eze- 
quiel aproveitou  a musica  para  ‘pedir-me  que  desmentisse  o texto  dando-lhe 
algum  dinheiro”  (218;  italicos  nossos). 

Se  a reaq:ao  de  Capita  foi  nessa  circunstancia  bem  diversa  da  narrada  no 
capitulo  18,  nao  e dificil  deduzir  o motivo.  “Livre  da  amea^a  de  pobreza,” 
como  anota  Almeida  Santos  (119),  Capita  pode  nao  so  toca-la  e canta-la,  mas 
tambem  aprecia-la,  achar-lhe  um  sabor  “quase  delicioso,”  em  vez  do  gosto 
amargo  da  adolescencia.  Ao  pedir  ao  pai  que  “desmentisse  o texto  dando- 
-Ihe  algum  dinheiro,”  Ezequiel  repete  a Capita  adolescente.  Nessa  “reedi^ao,” 
contudo.  Bento  de  fato  corrige,  desmente  o texto,  atendendo  ao  pedido, 
correspondendo  a expectativa,  ao  desejo  do  filho,  um  filho  que,  segundo  ele 
mesmo  diz  no  comedo  do  capitulo,  “nao  parecia  desmentiros  [s]eus  sonhos  da 
praia  da  Gloria”  (Dom  Casmurro  217;  italico  nosso).  Ao  menos  ate  ali. 

Ainda  no  tocante  a condi^ao  social  de  Capita,  Almeida  Santos  chama  aten- 
9ao  para  a insistencia  do  narrador-protagonista  em  registrar  com  minucia,  em 
diversas  ocasioes,  detalhes  da  indumentaria,  dos  cuidados  com  o corpo  e a apa- 
rencia,  especificando  acessorios  e produtos  utilizados  pela  adolescente.  Eis  o 
que  diz  o ensaista  ao  citar  e comentar  tais  passagens  dos  capitulos  32,  “Olhos 
de  ressaca,”  33,  “O  penteado,”  39,  “A  voca^ao”  e 13,  “Capita,”  nessa  ordem: 


No  capitulo  em  que  narra  o encontro  que  culmina  com  o primeiro  beijo,  o narrador 
nao  deixa  de  ver  ‘um  espelhinho  de  pataca  (perdoai  a barateza)  comprado  a um 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


140 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


mascate  italiano,  moldura  tosca,  argolinha  de  latao’  pendurado  na  parede  da  sala  de 
Capitu.  ObservT-se  que  Dom  Casmurro  desculpa-se  pela  modestia  do  ‘espelhinho 
de  pataca,’  e nao  pela  indiscri^ao  de  exibi-lo  publicamente.  Diante  desse  pobre  espe- 
lhinho, Bentinho  penteara  Capitu,  numa  das  cenas  mais  carregadas  de  erotismo  de 
todo  o livro,  o que  nao  impede  o narrador  de  informar  ao  leitor  que,  para  atar  as  duas 
traumas,  havia  em  cima  da  mesa,  um  triste  peda^o  de  fita  enxovalhada.’ 

Quando  Capitu  vai  cumprimentar  o padre  Cabral  pelo  titulo  recebido  (proto- 
notario  apostolico),  o narrador  nao  deixa  de  anotar  que  ela  ‘trazia  um  vestidinho 
melhor  e sapatos  de  sair’,  pois  se  tratava  de  uma  ocasiao  especial. 

Encerremos  esta  parte  com  a mais  ampla  e minuciosa  descri^ao  do  corpo  e 
dos  trajes  de  Capitu.  Dom  Casmurro  demora-se  extasiado  na  contempla^ao  [...] 
daquela  figura  tao  humilde,  mas  tao  sensual  [...]: 

Nao  podia  tirar  os  olhos  daquela  criatura  de  quatorze  anos,  alta,  forte  e cheia, 
apertada  em  um  vestido  de  chita,  meio  desbotado.  Os  cabelos  grossos,  feitos  em 
duas  tran^as,  com  as  pontas  atadas  uma  a outra,  a moda  do  tempo,  desciam-lhe 
pelas  costas.  Morena,  olhos  claros  e grandes,  nariz  reto  e comprido,  tinha  a boca 
fina  e o queixo  largo.  As  maos  , a despeito  de  alguns  ofkios  rudes,  eram  curadas 
com  amor;  nao  cheiravam  a saboes  finos  nem  aguas  de  toucador,  mas  com  agua 
do  P090  e sabao  comum  trazia-as  sem  macula.  Cal^ava  sapatos  de  duraque,  rasos 
e velhos,  a que  ela  mesma  dera  alguns  pontos.  (119) 

Dessa  descri^ao,  Almeida  Santos  conclui  primeiramente  que,  embora  o 
narrador  afirme  o contrario  no  capitulo  59,  “Convivas  de  boa  memoria,”  sua 
memoria  nao  so  e boa,  como  e capaz  de,  passados  mais  de  quarenta  anos, 
reconstituir  em  detalhes  precisos  tanto  as  fei^oes  e o porte  da  namorada  quanto 
aspectos  ligados  a sua  condi^ao  social,  indices  de  sua  pobreza.  “A  outra  con- 
clusao,”  acrescenta  ele,  “refere-se  a insistencia  com  que  Dom  Casmurro  intro- 
duz,  mesmo  recordando  momentos  de  intensa  emo^ao  vividos  por  Bentinho, 
nota^oes  relevantes  sobre  a situa^ao  economica  de  Capitu”  (120).  Apesar  de 
consciente  das  diferen<;as  sociais  entre  ambos,  ele  nao  teria  resistido  a sedu^ao 
da  mo^a,  segundo  o critico.  A repeti^ao  dessas  referencias  a condi^ao  social 
de  Capitu  evidenciaria  nao  apenas  a consciencia  que  o protagonista  tinha  da 
assimetria  entre  eles  e a importancia  por  ele  atribui'da  a esse  fato,  mas  tambem 
o objetivo  do  narrador  em  repisa-lo,  sobretudo  se  este  admire,  como  faz  no 
capitulo  31 , “As  curiosidades  de  Capitu,”  que  a reitera^ao  e um  recurso  eficaz 
no  convencimento  do  leitor:  “Ha  conceitos  que  se  devem  incutir  na  alma  do 
leitor,  a for^a  de  repeti^ao”  {Dom  Casmurro  111).  Desse  modo,  o narrador  vai 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  141 

sugerindo  uma  contamina^ao  do  relacionamento  amoroso  entre  os  dois  pelo 
presumido  interesse  de  ascensao  social  da  parte  de  Capitu.  Tornando  uma 
coisa  indissociavel  da  outra,  esse  narrador  casmurro  revela  ao  mesmo  tempo 
seu  “parti  pris,”  a desconfian^a  que  desde  sempre  moldou  sua  visao. 

Em  The  Brazilian  Othello  of  Machado  de  Assis:  A Study  ofDom  Casmurro 
(1960),  Helen  Caldwell  ve  em  Bento  Santiago  uma  fusao  das  personagens 
shakespearianas  de  Otelo  e lago,  ou  seja,  um  Otelo  que  e lago  de  si  mesmo, 
e comenta,  no  segundo  capitulo  do  livro,  o tema  do  dinheiro  e a forma  como 
esse  tema  se  apresenta,  sua  expressao  lingui'stica,  no  romance  em  questaod* 

Diz  a autora  no  inicio  de  sua  breve  e pioneira  analise: 

Nao  e somente  a Escobar  que  Santiago  atribui  um  excessivo  interesse  em  dinheiro, 
mas  tambem  a Capitu,  com  sua  perola  de  Cesar  e as  dez  libras  esterlinas,  Padua, 

Jose  Dias  e talvez  ate  a prima  Justina.  Mas,  e quanto  a Santiago? 

lago  acusa  Cassio  de  ‘calculista,’  quando  na  verdade  e ele,  lago,  que  coloca 
as  joias  de  Rodrigo  na  propria  bolsa.  As  falas  de  lago  aludem  constantemente  ao 
assunto  dinheiro.  Da  mesma  forma,  Santiago,  alem  de  suspeitar  que  todos  tern 
um  olho  na  fortuna  de  sua  familia,  esta  sempre  falando  de  dinheiro.  Ele  reduz  a 
rela9ao  mais  sagrada  entre  Deus  e o homem  ao  calao  dos  negocios  financeiros — 
comprar,  vender,  emprestar,  ganhar  na  loteria.  Ainda  em  tenra  idade,  come^a  a 
comprar  favores  celestes  usando  oraches  como  moeda  [...].  (36—37) 

Santiago  se  importa,  sim,  com  dinheiro,  conclui  Caldwell,  embora  so  atri- 
bua  tal  preocupaqao  aos  outros.  E a ensai'sta  americana  lembra  a passagem  do 
capitulo  108,  “Um  filho,”  na  qual  o narrador  procura  contrapor  o pragma- 
tismo  de  Escobar,  para  dizer  o mmimo,  a seu  suposto  idealismo,  sua  falta  de 
objetividade:  “[...]  desciamos  a praia  ou  ao  Passeio  Publico,  fazendo  ele  os  seus 
calculos,  eu  os  meus  sonhos”  {Dom  Casmurro  215).  Alias,  atribuir  apenas  ao 
outro  modos  de  ver,  sentir  e agir  que  tambem  Ihe  sao  proprios  e caracten'stico 
desse  narrador  casmurro.  Ele  assim  o faz  nao  so  em  rela^ao  ao  interesse  pecu- 
niario,  mas  tambem  em  rela^ao  a curiosidade,  ao  ensimesmamento  e a trfade 
calculo,  dissimula^ao,  malicia. 

Um  caloteiro  devoto  e seu  deficit  moral 

Ha  em  Dom  Casmurro  um  expressivo  conjunto  de  metaforas  economicas  apli- 
cadas  a esfera  religiosa:  o narrador-protagonista  descreve  a rela^ao  do  indivf- 
duo  com  Deus  como  rela^ao  de  diVida.  Alem  de  criador,  Deus  Pai  e credor. 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILA.R 


U2 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


E nos,  criaturas  devedoras  por  excelencia.  Entre  as  varias  formas  de  endivida- 
mento  possiVeis,  Dom  Casmurro  enfatiza  de  maneira  comica  e profanadora  a 
diVida  com  o ceu,  ou  seja,  com  o Credor  maior  e definitivo.  Passemos  entao  a 
analise  de  algumas  dessas  metaforas  pouco  catolicas  no  tratamento  da  materia 
religiosa,  mais  materia  que  espi'rito,  conforme  veremos. 

O capi'tulo  20,  “Mil  padre-nossos  e mil  ave-marias,”  mostra  clara  e exem- 
plarmente  em  que  termos  se  da  a rek(;ao  de  Bentinho  com  Deus.  Por  ser 
composto  de  uma  sucessao  de  metaforas  pecuniarias  articuladas  entre  si,  vai 
aqui  transcrito  na  mtegra; 

Levantei  os  olhos  ao  ceu,  que  comecava  a embruscar-se,  mas  nao  foi  para  ve-lo 
coberto  ou  descoberro.  Era  ao  outro  ceu  que  eu  erguia  a minha  alma;  era  ao  meu 
retugio,  ao  meu  amigo.  E entao  disse  de  mim  para  mim: 

— Prometo  rezar  mil  padre-nossos  e mil  ave-marias,  se  Jose  Dias  arranjar  que  eu 
nao  vd  para  o sanindrio. 

A soma  era  enorme.  A razao  e que  eu  andava  carregado  de  promessas  nao 
cumpridas.  A ultima  foi  de  duzentos  padre-nossos  e duzentas  ave-marias,  se  nao 
chovesse  em  certa  tarde  de  passeio  a Santa  Teresa.  Nao  choveu,  mas  eu  nao  rezei  as 
oracdes.  Desde  pequenino  acostumara-me  a pedir  ao  ceu  os  sens  favores,  mediayite 
oracdes  que  diria,  se  eles  viessem.  Disse  as  primeiras,  as  outras  foram  adiadas,  e a 
medida  que  se  amontoavam  iam  sendo  esquecidas.  .Assim  cheguei  aos  mimeros 
vinte,  trinta,  cinqiienta.  Entrei  nas  centenas  e agora  no  milhar.  Era  um  mode  de 
peitar  a vontade  divina  pela  quantia  das  oracoes-,  alem  disso,  cada  promessa  nova  era 
feita  e jurada  no  sentido  de  pagar  a divida  antiga.  Mas  vao  la  matar  a pregui^  de 
uma  alma  que  a trazia  do  berco  e nao  a sentia  atenuada  pela  vida!  O ceu  fazia-me 
o favor.,  eu  adiava  a paga.  .Aiinal  perdi-me  nas  contas. 

— Mil,  mil,  repeti  comigo. 

Reaimente,  a materia  do  beneficio  era  agora  imensa,  nao  menos  que  a salvacao 
ou  o naufragio  da  minha  existencia  inteira.  Mil,  mil,  mil.  Era  preciso  uma  soma 
que  pagasse  os  atrasados  todos.  Deus  podia  muito  bem,  irritado  com  os  esqueci- 
mentos,  negar-se  a ouvir-me  sem  muito  dinheiro...  Homem  grave,  e possiVel  que 
estas  agitacoes  de  menino  te  enfadem,  se  e que  nao  as  achas  ridi'culas.  Sublimes 
nao  eram.  Cogitei  muito  no  modo  de  resgatar  a divida  espiritual  Nao  achava  outra 
especie  em  que,  mediante  a intencao,  tudo  se  cnrmpnsse,  fechando  a escrituracdo  da 
minha  comciencia  moral  sem  deficit.  Niandar  dizer  cem  missas,  ou  subir  de  joelhos  a 
ladeira  da  Gloria  para  ouvir  uma,  ir  a Terra  Santa,  tudo  o que  as  velhas  escravas  me 
contavam  de  promessas  celebres,  tudo  me  acudia  sem  se  fixar  de  vez  no  espirito. 


ECONOMIES  OF  REU^TION  143 

Era  muito  duro  subir  uma  ladeira  de  joelhos;  devia  feri-los  por  for(;a.  A Terra  Santa 
ficava  muito  longe.  As  missas  eram  numerosas,  podiam  empenhar-me  outra  vez  a 
alma...  {Dom  Casmurro  \ italicos  nossos) 

O capitulo  principia  com  uma  a^ao  objetiva — o ato  de  olhar  para  o ceu, 
que  come^ava  a bear  sombrio,  coberto  por  nuvens  escuras.  Esse  gesto  sina- 
liza  outro  menos  aparente  e palpavel:  Bentinho  nao  levanta  somente  os  olhos 
ao  ceu  concreto,  ergue  tambem  a alma  “ao  outro  ceu.”  O verbo  erguer  e o 
primeiro  de  uma  serie  de  termos  designativos  de  a^oes,  realidades  ou  caracte- 
n'sticas  concretas,  que  sao  aplicados  a objetos  abstratos  nesse  capitulo.  E,  ao 
erguer  a alma  ao  outro  ceu,  ao  “amigo”  que  julga  ter  em  Deus,  nao  Lhe  faz 
um  simples  pedido,  faz  uma  promessa,  isto  e,  pede  oferecendo  uma  contrapar- 
tida,  propoe  a Ele  uma  troca.  Nesse  sentido,  toda  promessa  religiosa  tern  uma 
dimensao  mercantil.  E,  nesse  comercio  com  Deus,  o mais  freqiiente  talvez  seja 
solicitar  benefkios  concretos,  em  troca  de  atos  nao  menos  tangiVeis,  como 
“[mjandar  dizer  cem  missas,”  “subir  de  joelhos  a ladeira  da  Gloria  para  ouvir 
uma,  ir  a Terra  Santa.”  Bentinho  prefere  algo  menos  publico  e espetacular — 

— “rezar  mil  padre-nossos  e mil  ave-marias,”  mas  tal  preferencia  nao  se  deve 
a modestia  ou  a qualquer  outro  motivo  nobre.  Suas  razoes  sao  de  natureza 
fisica — subir  uma  ladeira  de  joelhos  fere  o corpo — e economica — ir  a distante 
Terra  Santa  ou  mandar  rezar  cem  missas  ferem  o bolso,  o adolescente  nao 
teria  como  viajar  sem  a autoriza9ao  da  mae  nem  como  pagar  as  despesas  de 
uma  viagem  ou  de  missas  encomendadas  sem  o custeio  materno.  Ainda  que 
ja  fosse  dono  do  proprio  nariz  e do  proprio  dinheiro,  haveria  outro  obstaculo: 
segundo  confessa  o narrador-protagonista,  seu  pecado  capital  nao  e a avareza, 
mas  sim  a preguiqa. 

No  conto  “Entre  santos,”  publicado  na  Gazeta  de  Noticias  (1886)  e mais 
tarde  recolhido  em  Vdrias  histdrias  e que  se  trata  de  conciliar  a devogao 

com  a algibcird'  (Assis,  “Entre  santos”  72;  italicos  nossos):  ali  a avareza  leva  a 
op^ao  por  esse  tipo  de  promessa  que  e pago  em  ora^oes.  Nesse  conto,  entao,  o 
“usurario  e avaro”  Sales  pede  a Sao  Francisco  que  salve  a vida  de  sua  mulher,  cuja 
infec^ao,  “uma  erisipela  na  perna  esquerda”  (70),  so  se  agravava.  Para  assegurar 
a gra<;a,  nao  quer  se  limitar  a pedir  e primeiro  lhe  ocorre  prometer  ao  santo  uma 
perna  de  cera,  caso  ele  interceda  junto  a Deus  pela  esposa  doente: 

— Quando  pensou  em  vir  pedir-me  que  intercedesse  pela  vida  da  esposa,  Sales 
teve  uma  ideia  especifica  de  usurario,  a de  prometer-me  uma  perna  de  cera.  Nao  foi 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VIL4R 


144 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


o crente,  que  simboliza  desta  maneira  a lembran^a  do  beneficio;  foi  o usurario 
que  pensoii  em  forgar  a graga  divina  pela  expectagao  do  lucro.  E nao  foi  so  a usura 
que  hiloii,  mas  tambem  a avareza-,  porque  em  verdade,  dispondo-se  a promessa, 
mostrava  ele  querer  deveras  a vida  da  mulher — intui^ao  de  avaro;  — despender  e 
documentar.  so  se  quer  de  coragao  aquilo  que  se paga  a dinheiro,  disse-lho  a conscien- 
cia  pela  mesma  boca  escura.  Sabeis  que  pensamentos  tais  nao  se  formulam  como 
outros,  nascem  das  entranhas  do  carater  e beam  na  penumbra  da  consciencia.  Mas 
eu  li  tudo  nele  logo  que  aqui  entrou  [...].  (72;  italicos  nossos) 

Na  passagem  acima,  Sales  atribui  ao  proprio  Sao  Francisco  um  amor  ao 
lucro  semelhante  ao  seu,  talvez  porque,  para  o muquirana,  este  seja  o motor  da 
humanidade,  ate  mesmo  de  sua  parcela  canonizada.  Semelhan9a  existe  antes 
entre  o intuito  dessa  personagem  de  “format  a gra9a  divina  pela  expecta9ao 
do  lucro”  e a inten9ao  do  menino  Bentinho  de  “peitar  a vontade  divina  pela 
quantia  das  ora9oes.”  O verbo  “peitar”  ainda  acentua  o sentido  degradante  ja 
presente  na  promessa  imaginada  por  Sales.  Nao  custa  recordar  a acep9ao  desse 
verbo  aqui  tornada  blasfematoria:  “dar  uma  coisa  (bem,  valia,  dinheiro  etc.) 
para  que  se  fa9a  outra,  ih'cita;  subornar  com  peita(s);  corromper  com  dadivas 
etc”  {Houaiss).  Assim,  em  sua  tentativa  de  subornar  Deus,  Bentinho  superou 
Sales,  mero  corruptor  de  santos.  A avareza  do  antecessor  dificulta  as  coisas: 

Prestes  a formular  o pedido  e a promessa  nao  achava  palavras  idoneas,  nem  apro- 
ximativas,  nem  sequer  dubias,  nao  achava  nada,  tao  longo  era  o descostume  de  dar 
alguma  coisa.  Afinalsaiu  o pedido\  a mulher  ia  morrer,  ele  rogava-me  que  a salvasse, 
que  pedisse  por  ela  ao  Senhor.  A promessa,  porem,  e que  nao  acabava  de  sair.  No 
momento  em  que  a boca  ia  articular  a primeira  palavra,  a garra  da  avareza  mordia- 
-Ihe  as  entranhas  e nao  deixava  sair  nada.  Que  a salvasse...  que  intercedesse  por 
ela...  (“Entre  santos”  73;  italicos  nossos) 

Sales  chega  a ter  uma  alucina9ao  na  qual  ve  a perna  de  cera  e “a  moeda  que 
ela  havia  de  custar.”  Depois  so  enxerga  a moeda  de  ouro,  '"redonda,  luzidia^' 
girando  e se  deslocando  tao  rapido  a ponto  de  parecer  que,  como  a meia- 
-dobra  achada  por  Bras, multiplicava-se  a si  mesma'  (73;  italicos  nossos);  com 
uma  diferen9a — em  Memdrias  postumas,  a multiplica9ao  simboliza  lucro,  um 
lucro  moral;  no  conto,  representa  despesa,  uma  despesa  material. 

Ao  fim.  Sales  consegue  passar  do  pedido  a promessa,  uma  vez  que  esta  nao 
implicara  gastos  concretos: 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  145 

Aqui  o demonio  da  avareza  sugeria-lhe  uma  transa^ao  nova,  uma  troca  de  especie, 
dizendo-lhe  que  o valor  da  oragao  era  superfino  e muito  mais  excelso  que  o das  obras 
terrenas.  E o Sales,  curvo,  contrito,  com  as  maos  postas,  o olhar  submisso,  desam- 
parado,  resignado,  pedia-me  que  Ihe  salvasse  a mulher.  Que  Ihe  salvasse  a mulher, 
e prometia-me  trezentos,  — nao  menos,  — trezentos  padre-nossos  e trezentas  ave- 
-marias.  E repetia  enfatico:  trezentos,  trezentas,  trezentos...  Foi  subindo,  chegou 
a quinhentos,  a mil  padre-nossos  e mil  ave-marias.  Nao  via  essa  soma  escrita  por 
letras  do  alfabeto,  mas  em  algarismos,  como  se  ficasse  assim  mais  viva,  mais  exata,  e 
a obriga^ao  maior,  e maior  tambem  a sedugao.  [...]  [A]  palavra  saia-lhe  mais  rapida, 
impetuosa,  ja  falada,  mil,  mil,  mil,  mil...  (74;  italicos  nossos) 

Dessa  forma,  Sales  entra  num  leilao  consigo  mesmo  pela  vida  da  mulher 
e chega  a fazer  um  lance  de  duas  mil  ora^oes.  Mas  voltemos  ao  romance. 

Por  mais  espiritual  que  se  considere  a tarefa  proposta  por  Bentinho  de  rezar 
mil  padre-nossos  e mil  ave-marias,  sua  dura^ao  e objetivamente  longa,  e sua 
quantifica^ao,  assim  como  a da  promessa  de  encomendar  missas,  necessaria. 
Ironicamente,  a tarefa  de  Deus  e impedir,  por  intermedio  de  Jose  Dias,  a ida 
do  rapaz  para  o seminario  e sua  conseqiiente  ordena^ao,  dispensando  assim 
um  futuro  servidor  seu,  em  regime  de  exclusividade.  Na  verdade,  nao  se  tor- 
nar  seminarista,  que  dira  padre,  e bem  mais  que  uma  mudan^a  concreta  de 
carreira,  significa  a possibilidade  de  ser  feliz  com  a mulher  amada.  No  inicio 
do  ultimo  paragrafo  do  capitulo,  explicita-se  o valor  da  gra^a  esperada  aos 
olhos  de  Bentinho:  “a  materia  do  beneficio  agora  era  imensa,  nao  menos  que 
a salvagdo  ou  o naufrdgio  da  minha  existencia  inteira."  Reitera-se  desse  modo 
a correspondencia  entre  elementos  concretos  e circunstancias  mais  abstratas  e 
espirituais.  O ceu  acima  das  cabe^as  com  sua  promessa  de  chuva,  e o futuro 
a amea^ar  o diluvio.  Iria  ele  naufragar  no  celibato  da  carreira  eclesiastica  ou 
entrar  na  Area  com  Capitu?  Como  ja  tinha  afastado  a possibilidade  de  chuva 
numa  tarde  de  passeio,  mediante  a ultima  promessa,  nao  paga,  de  rezar  qua- 
trocentas  ora^oes,  quern  sabe  nao  conseguiria  um  deficit  pluviometrico  domi- 
ciliar,  evitando  que  seu  projeto  de  vida  a dois  fizesse  agua? 

No  terceiro  paragrafo,  o narrador-protagonista  comenta  o total  de  orates 
afian^ado  na  promessa:  “A  soma  era  enorme.”  “Soma”  (substantivo  que  designa, 
entre  outras  coisas,  o resultado  de  uma  adi^ao,  a propria  opera^ao  aritmetica  e 
uma  quantia  de  dinheiro)  e aqui  o primeiro  termo  a aliar  a concretude  a ideia  de 
contabilidade.  O adjetivo  “carregado”  enfatiza  a materialidade  ja  sugerida  por 
“soma.”  Embora  a carga  em  questao  nao  seja  material,  o participio  passado  de 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


146 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


“carrcgar”  acenrua  a ideia  fisica  de  peso,  como  circunstancia  ou  condi9ao  carac- 
teristica  da  materia:  uma  arvore  carregada  de  frutos,  por  exemplo.  A gravidade 
do  problema  em  sentido  abstrato  flea  assim  impregnada  de  seu  significado 
concreto,  newtoniano.  Bentinho  “andava  carregado  de  promessas  nao  cumpri- 
das,”  e seu  futuro  andava  tao  carregado  quanto  o ceu  ao  qual  levantou  os  olhos 
no  momento  da  promessa.  Enquanto  ceu  e futuro  prometiam  chuva,  Benti- 
nho prometia  preces,  duas  mil  delas.  Ele  conta  ter  adquirido  desde  pequeno  o 
habito  de  recorrer  a promessas  de  ora^oes  que  diria,  se  obtivesse  do  ceu  os  favo- 
res  pedidos.  Reconhece  tambem  sempre  ter  sido  mau  pagador,  mais  devoto 
do  calote  que  do  Altissimo:  “Disse  as  primeiras,  as  outras  foram  adiadas,  e a 
medida  que  se  amontoavam  iam  sendo  esquecidas.  Assim  cheguei  aos  numeros 
vinte,  trinta,  cinqiienta.”  Repare-se  o uso  de  um  verbo  como  “amontoar,”  que 
imprime  uma  concretude  espacial  as  ora^oes,  e note-se  a enumera^ao  de  cifras 
especificas  “vinte,  trinta,  cinqiienta.”  O trecho  seguinte  ja  deixa  clara  a ideia  de 
contabilidade,  alem  de  configurar  a relacao  entre  a personagem  e Deus  como 
um  rapport  entre  devedor  e credor:  “Entrei  nas  centenas  e agora  no  milhar. 
Era  um  modo  de  peitar  a vontade  divina  pela  quantia  das  ora^oes;  alem  disso, 
cada  promessa  nova  era  feita  e jurada  no  sentido  de  pagar  a diVida  antiga.  [...] 
O ceu  fazia-me  o favor,  eu  adiava  a paga.  Aiinal  perdi-me  nas  contas.”  “Perder- 
-se  nas  contas,”  “adiar  a paga,”  “promessa  nova,”  “diVida  antiga,”  “quantia  das 
ora^oes,”  “peitar  a vontade  divina” — todos  esses  sao  sintagmas  que  mesclam 
a relacao  com  Deus  o mundano,  o mercantil,  o pecuniario  e o contabil,  asso- 
ciando  abstrato  e concreto.  E tanto  a ideia  traduzida  pela  palavra  “promessa” 
quanto  o proprio  vocabulo  circulam  ha  tempos  pelo  universo  economico- 
-juridico,  segundo  atestam  expressdes  corriqueiras  como  “nota  promissoria,” 
“promessa  de  compra  e venda.”  A promissoria,  alias,  nao  e outra  coisa  senao 
um  documento  escrito  que  registra  uma  diVida,  concedendo  ao  credor  ou  favo- 
recido  o direito  de  receber  aquele  valor,  na  data  ali  estipulada.  Na  defini^ao  do 
Diciondrio  Houaiss,  nota  ou  letra  promissoria  e uma  “promessa  de  pagamento 
emitida  pelo  devedor  em  favor  do  credor,  que  devera  ser  cumprida  no  venci- 
mento  convencionado.”  O mesmo  dicionario  assim  define  o sentido  religioso 
de  “promessa”:  “oferta  de  pagamento  futuro  (em  ora^oes,  sacriffeios,  peniten- 
cias,  dinheiro,  ex-votos  etc.)  feito  a Deus,  a virgem  Maria  ou  aos  santos,  para 
obter  alguma  gra9a  ou  beneftcio;  voto.”  O vencimento,  na  promessa  religiosa, 
e logo  apos  a obten9ao  da  gra^a.  Com  a promessa,  portanto,  a gra^a  deixa  de 
ser  de  gra9a.  E os  mans  pagadores,  como  Bentinho,  sempre  podem  alegar  que 
so  estao  restabelecendo  a gratuidade  da  gra9a. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  147 

Na  esfera  economica,  promessa  sem  duvida  e diVida.  Aqui,  obedecendo 
ao  ditado,  promessa  tambem  vira  sinonimo  de  di'vida.  Desde  cedo,  entao,  o 
protagonista  revela-se  um  descumpridor  de  promessas,  ou  seja,  um  caloteiro. 

Embora  nao  o recomende  ao  Banco  da  divina  Providencia,  tal  historico  nao 
inibe  o rapaz  de  faze-las.  Alem  da  necessidade  de  assegurar  novos  pedidos  a 
Deus  por  meio  delas,  a propria  existencia  de  promessas  nao  cumpridas  leva 
nosso  inadimplente  espiritual  a assumir  novos  compromissos  que  permitam 
saldar  os  anteriores:  “Era  preciso  uma  soma  que  pagasse  os  atrasados  todos.” 

A conjetura  que  vem  em  seguida  nao  deixa  duvida  quanto  a utiliza^ao  da 
prece  como  meio  de  troca,  moeda:  “Deus  podia  muito  bem,  irritado  com 
os  esquecimentos,  negar-se  a ouvir-me  sem  muito  dinheiro..r  Pouco  depois, 
vem  a passagem  em  que  a concep^ao  de  contabilidade  moral  mais  se  explicita: 

“Cogitei  muito  no  modo  de  resgatar  a diVida  espiritual.  Nao  achava  outra 
especie  em  que,  mediante  a inten^ao,  tudo  se  cumprisse,  fechando  a escri- 
tura^ao  da  minha  consciencia  moral  sem  deficit"  A terminologia  economica 
e contabil — “resgatar  uma  di'vida,”  “escritura^ao”  e deficit — combina-se  aos 
termos  da  esfera  moral  e espiritual,  impondo  a este  campo  os  valores,  o modus 
fiaciendi,  os  codigos  de  funcionamento  daquela  outra  esfera.  No  piano  reli- 
gioso,  exploram-se  precisamente  os  aspectos  mais  afins  com  o universo  eco- 
nomico,  como  o recurso  da  promessa,  cujo  carater  mercantil  sobressai  gramas 
a essa  vizinhan^a  terminologica  e ao  contexto  despudoradamente  comercial 
em  que  o narrador-protagonista  a insere. 

Segundo  o Houaiss,  escriturar  e “anotar  de  maneira  organizada,  sistematica 
(contas  comerciais);  fazer  a escritura^ao  de,”  alem  de  “assumir  obriga^oes  e 
deveres  por  meio  de  escritura  piiblica.”  Simplificadamente,  “escritura^ao”  e 
a contabilidade,  o ato  de  escriturar  nos  livros  competentes,  sao  os  proprios 
livros  e registros  contabeis.  A meta  declarada  pelo  protagonista  e “fecha[r]  a 
escritura^ao  da  [sua]  consciencia  moral  sem  deficit"  zerar  as  contas.  A con- 
tabilidade moral  presente  em  Memdrias  pdstumas  tinha  objetivo  semelhante, 
expresso  pela  metafora  da  “equivalencia  das  janelas.”  Segundo  esse  princi'pio, 

“o  modo  de  compensar  nmz.  janela  fechada  e abrir  outra,  a fim  de  que  a moral 
possa  arejar  continuamente  a consciencia,”  impedindo-a  de  “ficar  sufocada” 
ou,  nos  termos  de  Bento  e Bras  combinados,  evitando  seu  deficit  respiratorio. 

A diferen^a  reside  no  fato  de,  em  Dom  Casmurro,  as  questoes  morais  envol- 
verem  diretamente  a dimensao  religiosa  e os  valores  catolicos.  A complica^ao 
inicial  da  trama,  vale  lembrar,  baseia-se  na  promessa  da  mae  devota,  a fim 
de  assegurar  o nascimento  do  filho,  de  quern  faria  um  padre  se  fosse  varao  e 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


148 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


viiigasse.  “Um  cochilo  da  fe,”  segundo  nosso  advogado,  teria  resolvido  tudo 
tavoravelmente  a ele,  “mas  a fe  velava  com  o seus  grandes  olhos  ingenuos” 
{Do?n  Casmurro  179).  Como  bem  observa  Therezinha  Mucci  Xavier,  a pro- 
pria geraq:ao  do  protagonista  e narrador  do  livro  (ou,  se  quisermos  ser  mais 
precisos,  sua  propria  existencia,  uma  vez  que  a interven^ao  divina  seria  poste- 
rior a concep^ao)  deve-se  a um  favor  de  Deus  (ao  menos  para  Dona  Gloria). 
Eis  um  fato  (ou  uma  hipotese)  que  nao  deixa  de  ter  conseqiiencias  contabeis; 
alem  de  revelar-se  perdulario  no  uso  do  verbo  prometer,  Bentinho  ja  teria 
nascido  endividado.  Com  o tempo,  o vicio  das  promessas,  verdadeira  com- 
pulsao,  rendeu-lhe  elevada  “diVida  espiritual.”  O linico  meio  de  resgata-la, 
cumprindo  todas  as  promessas  pendentes,  era  fazer  nova  promessa  em  que  “a 
quantia  das  ora^oes  igualasse  ou  superasse  “os  atrasados  todos.”  Desse  modo, 
“mediante  a inten^ao,”  formula  ideal  para  os  que  falham  sempre  na  realiza^ao, 
o pregui(;oso  protagonista  conseguiria  fazer  sua  consciencia  moral  sair  do  ver- 
melho  e ainda  contar  com  o favor  do  ceu  num  momento  crftico. 

Antes  de  mencionar  outros  capitulos  ilustrativos  da  contabilidade  moral 
que  atravessa  o romance,  vejamos  duas  passagens  relativas  ao  valor  monetdrio 
da  intengdo,  por  assim  dizer,  e algumas  outras  localizadas  nos  mesmos  capitu- 
los. A primeira  encontra-se  no  capitulo  67,  “Um  pecado,”  no  qual  Bentinho 
confessa  ter  desejado,  por  uma  fra^ao  de  segundo,  a morte  da  mae  que  adoe- 
cera  gravemente:  “Foi  uma  sugestao  da  luxiiria  e do  egoismo.  A piedade  filial 
desmaiou  um  instante,  com  a perspectiva  da  liberdade  certa,  pelo  desapareci- 
mento  da  dlvida  e do  devedof  (Dom  Casmurro  165).  Mas  a passagem  referente 
a inten^ao  como  moeda  e esta  outra,  no  fim  do  capitulo: 

Entao  levado  do  remorso,  usei  ainda  uma  vez  do  meu  velho  meio  das  promessas 
espirituais,  e pedi  a Deus  que  me  perdoasse  e salvasse  a vida  de  minha  mae,  e eu  Ihe 
rezaria  dous  mil  padre-nossos.  Padre  que  me  les,  perdoa  este  recurso;  foi  a ultima 
vez  que  o empreguei.  A crise  em  que  me  achava,  nao  menos  que  o costume  e a 
fe,  explica  tudo.  Eram  mais  dous  mil;  onde  iam  os  antigos?  Nao  paguei  uns  nem 
outros,  mas  saindo  de  almas  Candidas  e verdadeiras  tais  promessas  sao  como  a moeda 
fiducidria,  — ainda  que  o devedor  as  nao  pague,  valem  a soma  que  dizem.  (166) 

Nessa  passagem,  o protagonista  se  mostra  um  irrecuperavel  quebrador  de 
promessas,  nem  quando  as  faz  por  causas  decisivas,  por  uma  razao  literalmente 
de  vida  ou  morte  como  nesse  caso,  chega  a cumpri-las.  Dai  o subterfugio  de 
valorizar  a inten^ao  de  paga-las,  a pretensa  sinceridade  com  que  foram  feitas. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


149 


Para  isso,  o narrador  compara  as  promessas  descumpridas  ao  engenhoso  instru- 
mento  economico  da  moeda  fiduciaria,  ou  seja,  qualquer  meio  de  troca,  qual- 
quer  meio  de  pagamento,  moeda,  em  suma,  “cujo  valor  nao  decorre  do  valor 
intrmseco  de  um  lastro  (p.ex.,  papel-moeda,  moeda  metalica  cunhada  em  liga 
de  valor  inferior  ao  valor  de  face),  mas  do  valor  que  Ihe  e atribuido  pelo  orgao 
emissor,  e que  e aceite  como  bom  pelos  usuarios”  {Houaiss).  Nao  havendo 
um  “correspondente  lastro  de  metal  precioso  em  poder  do  emitente”  como 
garantia,  a aceita^ao  da  moeda  fiduciaria  “se  baseia  na  confian^a”  {Aurelio), 
segundo  o proprio  adjetivo  indica. 

As  “almas  Candidas  e verdadeiras”  seriam  emitentes  confiaveis,  mais  que 
dignas  de  fe,  e as  promessas  por  elas  “emitidas”  dispensariam  o cumprimento, 
assim  como  a moeda  fiduciaria  dispensa  a garantia  do  lastro:  “[...]  ainda  que 
o devedor  nao  as  pague,  valem  a soma  que  dizem.”  O fato  de  nosso  can- 
dido  devedor  nunca  as  ter  pagado  nao  deve  abalar  a confian^a  na  verdade 
de  sua  inten^ao  de  pagar,  no  valor  dessa  inten^ao,  sempre  sincera,  segundo 
ele.  Em  vez  de  “inten^ao  de  pagar,”  talvez  fosse  mais  correto  dizer  “inten^ao 
pagadora,”  pois,  aos  olhos  de  nosso  sutil  economista,  a propria  inten^ao  ja 
vale  como  pagamento.  Dessa  forma,  o narrador  inaugura  a comoda  catego- 
ria  das  promessas  religiosas  que  deixam  a fun(;ao  executiva  toda  a cargo  da 
outra  parte,  a todo-poderosa.  No  mundo  profano,  no  reino  das  promessas 
civis,  a incumbencia  assumida  pode  ser  unilateral,  nao  ha  duvida.  Mas  essa 
unilateralidade,  ao  que  se  saiba,  sempre  se  referiu  ao  lado  de  quern  promete, 
nao  ao  outro.  Abolindo  a reciprocidade  das  presta^oes,  nosso  especialista  em 
economia  espiritual  eliminou  a diferen^a  entre  promessa  e simples  pedido,  ou 
melhor,  travestiu  o pedido  de  promessa. 


Teoria  dos  pecados  e das  virtudes:  a contabilidade  moral 

No  capitulo  68,  “Adiemos  a virtude,”  o narrador  explica  a conduta  moral  dos 
individuos  por  uma  teoria  sua: 

Nao  so  as  belas  a^oes  sao  belas  em  qualquer  ocasiao,  como  sdo  tamhem  possiveis  e 
provdveis,  pela  teoria  que  tenho  dos  pecados  e das  virtudes,  nao  menos  simples  que 
clara.  Reduz-se  a isto  que  cada  pessoa  nasce  com  certo  numero  deles  e delas,  aliados 
por  matrimonio  para  se  compensarem  na  vida.  Quando  um  de  tais  conjuges  e mais 
forte  que  o outro,  ele  so  guia  o individuo,  sem  que  este,  por  nao  haver  praticado 
tal  virtude  ou  cometido  tal  pecado,  se  possa  dizer  isento  de  um  ou  de  outro;  mas 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


150 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


a regra  e dar-se  a prdtica  simultdnea  dos  dous,  com  vantagem  do  portador  de 

ambos,  e alguma  vez  com  resplendor  maior  da  terra  e do  ceu.  {Dom  Casmurro 

166;  italicos  nossos) 

A teoria  dos  pecados  e das  virtudes  do  narrador-protagonista  nao  deixa 
de  ser  uma  teoria  da  probabilidade.  Na  concep^ao  de  Dom  Casmurro,  a 
dualidade  moral  e inerente  ao  homem;  somos  potencialmente  virtuosos  e 
pecadores,  e a imensa  maioria  realizara  ambas  as  possibilidades,  pois,  via  de 
regra,  o que  se  constata  e “a  pratica  simultanea  dos  dois.”  Tal  freqiiencia  de 
virtudes  praticadas  e pecados  cometidos  so  evidencia  nossa  natureza  ambi- 
valente  ou,  na  metafora  conjugal  desse  capitulo,  que  tambem  e quantitativa 
e contdbiU  “cada  pessoa  nasce  com  certo  numero  deles  de  delas,  aliados  por 
matrimonio  para  se  compensarem  na  vida''  Seja  em  nossas  atitudes  e a^oes 
tomadas  em  conjunto,  seja  em  cada  um  delas  isoladamente,  ha  e um  predo- 
minio  do  bem  ou  do  mal:  “Quando  um  de  tais  conjuges  e mais  forte  que  o 
outro,  ele  so  guia  o indivi'duo.”  Nem  por  isso,  alguem  se  pode  dizer  “isento” 
de  “tal  virtude”  ou  “tal  pecado.” 

Recordemos  o famoso  capitulo  9,  “A  opera,”  no  qual  o narrador  resume 
as  palavras  com  que  um  velho  tenor  italiano  Ihe  apresentou  sua  narrativa  da 
cria^ao  do  mundo  como  obra  tanto  de  Deus  quanto  do  Diabo.  Nessa  versao 
hibrida,  a cria^ao  se  converte  na  mise-en-scene  de  uma  opera  que  tern  Deus 
como  libretista,  o Diabo  como  compositor  e o planeta  como  palco.  Satanas, 
jovem  maestro  de  grande  talento,  e expulso  do  conservatorio  do  ceu,  por 
tramar  uma  rebeliao.  Vai  para  o inferno  levando  “um  libreto  de  opera”  escrito 
por  Deus,  mas  posto  de  lado,  uma  vez  que  “tal  genero  de  recreio”  pareceu 
ao  autor  “improprio  da  sua  eternidade.”  La  compoe  a partitura  que  decide 
levar  ao  Altissimo,  movido  pela  vaidade  de  “mostrar  que  valia  mais  que  os 
outros”  e tambem  pelo  proposito  de  “reconciliar-se  com  o ceu”  (78).  Pede  ao 
Senhor  que  a emende  e a fa^a  executar.  Caso  Este  a julgue  “digna  das  alturas,” 
suplica-lhe  que  o readmita  com  ela  em  Sen  reino.  Deus  inicialmente  se  recusa 
a ouvir  a miisica,  mas,  levado  tanto  pela  misericordia  quanto  pelo  cansa^o, 
acaba  permitindo  que  opera  seja  executada  fora  do  ceu.  Para  isso,  cria  “um 
teatro  especial,  este  planeta”  e “uma  companhia  inteira,”  porem  se  nega  a 
ouvir  qualquer  ensaio.  Seja  reproduzindo  um  comentario  do  tenor  Marco- 
lini,  seja  expressando  uma  opiniao  propria,  o narrador  entao  observa:  “Foi 
talvez  um  mal  esta  recusa;  dela  resultaram  alguns  desconcertos  que  a audiencia 
previa  e a colaboragdo  amiga  teriam  evitado”  (79;  italicos  nossos). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RE^TION 


151 


Embora  inevitavel,  a colabora^ao,  entretanto,  nao  pode  ser  “amiga.”  Ou 
nao  existiriam  os  desacordos,  os  “lugares  em  que  o verso  vai  para  a direita  e 
a musica  para  a esquerda,”  os  iniimeros  trechos  em  que,  segundo  os  amigos 
do  poeta,  “a  partitura  corromp[e]  o sentido  da  letra  e [...]  e absolutamente 
diversa  e ate  contraria  ao  drama”  (79).  Em  suma,  nas  proprias  palavras  de 
Deus  ao  rival,  no  fim  do  conto  “A  Igreja  do  diabo”:  “[•••]  e ^ eterna  contradigao 
humand'  (Assis  42;  italicos  nossos).  Aos  olhos  dos  “imparciais,”  precisamente 
ai  reside  a “beleza  da  composi^ao”  (Dom  Casmurro  79).  Naquele  conto  de 
“Historias  sem  data”  (1884),  vale  lembrar,  evidencia-se  a necessaria  impureza 
das  a^oes  humanas:  nenhum  ato  e totalmente  virtuoso  ou  totalmente  mau, 
assim  como  nenhum  homem  o e.  A humanidade,  portanto,  seria  inteiramente 
composta  de  mestizos  morais  cuja  bondade  ou  cuja  maldade  teriam  sempre 
carater  provisorio:  alguem  so  poderia  considerar-se  bom  se,  numa  atitude  ou 
numa  a^ao  particular,  os  motivos  nobres  preponderassem  sobre  os  mesqui- 
nhos  e egoistas,  ou  se  sua  contabilidade  moral,  seu  balan^o  de  pecados  e virtu- 
des  registrasse  saldo  positivo.  Do  contrario,  seria  mau,  ao  menos  ate  segunda 
ordem,  porque  so  se  poderia  ser  uma  coisa  ou  outra  interinamente. 

Essa  teoria  da  dualidade,  da  ambigiiidade  moral  constitutiva  do  homem, 
proposta  por  Dom  Casmurro  no  capitulo  68,  nao  deixa  de  encontrar  cor- 
respondencia  na  propria  estrutura  narrativa  do  romance,  uma  vez  que  este 
tambem  mostra  uma  ambigiiidade  constitutiva,  organizando-se  de  modo  que 
nao  se  possa  resolver  a questao  do  adulterio  de  Capitu.  Ha  assim  uma  redupli- 
ca(;ao  no  piano  literario  dessa  concep9ao  dinamica  da  estrutura  moral  como 
estrutura  ancorada  numa  natureza  dual,  ambigua,  plastica.  Dai  a necessidade 
de  escritura^ao,  de  registros  contabeis  que  permitam  avaliar  o carater  dos  indi- 
viduos,  ainda  que  qualquer  juizo  dessa  especie  seja  provisorio. 

Jeova,  um  Rothschild  mais  humano 

“Um  dos  gestos  que  melhor  exprimem  a minha  essencia  foi  a devo^ao  com  que 
corri  no  domingo  proximo  a ouvir  a missa  em  Santo  Antonio  dos  Pobres” — 
assim  come9a  o capitulo  69,  ‘A  missa.”  Nele  se  confirmam  que  a conscien- 
cia  moral  e a religiosidade  do  protagonista  sao  movidas  sobretudo  pela  culpa 
e pelo  interesse.  Bentinho  vai  a missa  a fim  de  “reconciliar-[se]  com  Deus, 
depois  do  que  se  passou  no  capitulo  LXVII”  {Dom  Casmurro  167),  quando 
quis  a morte  da  mae.  A passagem  seguinte  nao  so  explicita  a devo^ao  interes- 
sada  do  rapaz,  mas  tambem  torna  a mesclar  religiao  e economia  em  metafora 
divertidamente  profanadora: 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


152 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Nem  era  so  pedir-lhe  perdao  do  pecado,  era  tambem  agradecer  o restabelecimento 
de  miiiha  mae,  e,  visto  que  diga  tudo,  faze-lo  renunciar  ao  pagamento  da  minha 
proniessa.  Jeovd,  posto  que  divino,  ou  por  isso  mesmo,  e um  Rothschild  muito  mais 
hurnano,  e nao  faz  moratorias,  perdoa  as  dividas  integralmente,  uma  vez  que  o deve- 
dor  queira  deveras  emendar  a vida  e cortar  nas  despesas.  (167;  italicos  nossos) 

Dens  aqiii  e identificado  a um  homem,  mais  precisamente,  a um  ban- 
queiro  alemao  de  origem  judaica,  fundador  do  imperio  bancario  dos  Roths- 
childs, com  uma  diferen^a  em  rela^ao  a essa  figura  historica,  sinonimo  de 
capitalista  internacional:  a de  set  “muito  mais  humano.”  A escolha  do  adjetivo 
so  torna  a metafora  mais  irreverente,  uma  vez  que,  alem  de  compreensivo, 
piedoso,  “humano,”  significa  o que  e proprio  do  homem,  ou  designa  o que 
nao  e divino.  Alias,  se  os  banqueiros  tivessem  um  Deus,  nao  e improvavel  que 
fosse  Rothschild.  Jeova  nao  seria  um  bom  candidato  ao  titulo,  justamente 
por  essa  “humanidade”  mais  pronunciada.  Ou  seja,  Deus  e um  credor  mais 
transigente  e tolerante,  nao  se  limitando  a dilatar  o prazo  de  quita^ao  das  diVi- 
das  mediante  moratorias,  mas  chegando  a perdoa-las.  A misericordia  divina 
e assim  reduzida  a perdao  de  dividas  pecuniarias,  e o pecador  arrependido  a 
devedor  que  resolveu  “cortar  nas  despesas.”  A transposi^ao  da  logica  contabil 
para  o campo  da  moralidade  assim  se  revela  nesse  conjunto  de  metaforas — 
Jeova  como  um  Rothschild  pouco  ortodoxo  em  sua  bondade,  anticapitalista 
mesmo,  por  preferir  perdoar  dividas  a fazer  moratorias;  o pecador  como  deve- 
dor que  precisa  reduzir  gastos,  isto  e,  cometer  menos  faltas,  e,  alem  disso, 
praticar  atos  virtuosos  em  quantidade  suficiente  para  aumentar  a receita  e 
garantir  um  saldo  moral  positivo  ou  ao  menos  equilibrar  as  contas. 

No  capitulo  80,  “Venhamos  ao  capitulo,”  a palavra  “promessa”  ganha 
outros  sinonimos  alem  de  “divida,”  alternando-se  com  “contrato”  e “letra,” 
ambos  termos  economicos  cuja  proximidade  de  significado  com  “promessa,” 
sobretudo  no  sentido  religioso,  e nitida.  Contrato  e todo  “pacto  entre  duas 
ou  mais  pessoas,  que  se  obrigam  a cumprir  o que  foi  entre  elas  combinado 
sob  determinadas  condi(;6es”  {Houaiss),  a defini^ao  propriamente  juridica 
do  termo,  nesse  dicionario  como  no  Aurelio,  supondo  assim  “um  acordo  de 
vontades  entre  as  partes”  envolvidas.  A palavra  “contrato”  figura  no  primeiro 
e no  antepenultimo  paragrafo  do  capitulo  {Dom  casmurro  178,  180).  Como 
Dona  Gloria  fizera  a promessa  sem  dizer  nada  a ninguem,  especialmente 
ao  marido,  a quern  so  revelaria  o acerto  com  Deus,  quando  Bentinho  fosse 
para  escola  (80-81),  terminou  enviuvando  antes  disso  e ficando  “diante  do 


a 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 53 

contrato,  como  linica  devedora  (179).  So  apos  a morte  do  esposo,  nao  que- 
rendo  separar-se  do  filho,  mas  tampouco  desejando  quebrar  a promessa,  jul- 
gou  necessario  “apertar  o vinculo  moral  da  obriga^ao,  confi[ando]  os  seus 
projetos  e motivos  a parentes  e familiares”  (178).  Note-se  o emprego  do  verbo 
“apertar”  em  mais  outra  metafora  cujo  efeito  de  concretiza^ao  do  abstrato  e 
uma  das  constantes  estilfsticas  do  autor,  como  apontou  Dirce  Cortes  Rie- 
del. Embora  procurasse  adiar  a entrada  de  Bentinho  no  seminario,  Dona 
Gloria  fazia-o,  ao  contrario  dele,  por  acreditar  que  “promessas  se  cumprem” 

(179):  seriam,  no  vocabulario  economico-juridico,  contratos  bilaterais,  ou 
seja,  aqueles  em  que  “ambas  as  partes  tern  obriga^oes”  {Houais^.  Ja  o filho  da 
viiiva  Santiago  advogava  promessas  segundo  o modelo  do  contrato  leonino — 

“aquele  em  que  uma  das  partes  leva  todas  as  vantagens,  ou  a maioria  delas, 
em  detrimento  da(s)  outra(s)  partes”  {Aurelio). 

A palavra  “letra”  aparece  no  segundo  paragrafo,  duas  vezes,  quando  o nar- 
rador  discorre  sobre  esse  adiamento  de  sua  ida  para  o seminario: 

E o que  se  chama,  comercialmente  falando,  reformar  uma  letra.  O credor  era 
arquimiliondrio,  nao  dependia  daquela  quantia  para  comer,  e consentiu  nas  trans- 
ferencias  de  pagamento,  sem  sequer  agravar  a taxa  do  juro.  Um  dia,  porem,  um 
dos  familiares  que  serviam  de  endossantes  da  letra,  falou  da  necessidade  de  entre- 
gar  o prego  ajustado  Minha  mae  concordou  e recolhi-me  a Sao  Jose.  {Dom 
Casmurro  179;  italicos  nossos) 

Em  sua  visao  mercantilizada  da  esfera  religiosa  e da  vida  como  um  todo, 
o narrador  descreve  tanto  sua  rela^ao  pessoal  com  Deus  quanto  a de  sua  mae 
em  termos  comerciais,  apesar  da  flagrante  diferen^a  de  atitude  entre  ambos  em 
materia  de  religiosidade.  Repete-se,  com  variances,  a mesma  linguagem  que  se 
apropria  do  vocabulario  economico  em  metaforas  de  tom  comicamente  sacrf- 
lego.  Deus  e Pai,  nem  por  isso  deixa  de  ser  credor  de  seus  filhos,  mas  um  cre- 
dor benevolo,  porque  “arquimiliondrio”:  “[...]  consentiu  nas  transferencias  de 
pagamento”  (ao  se  “reformar  uma  letra,”  um  titulo  de  diVida  e substituf-lo  por 
outro,  de  igual  valor  ou  nao,  por  ocasiao  do  vencimento,  como  forma  de  esten- 
der  o prazo  para  pagar)  e fez  isso  sem  aumentar  os  juros!  Em  suma,  Deus  e 
capitalista,  ma  non  troppo.  O movimento  de  concretiza^ao  do  piano  espiritual 
e divertidamente  envilecedor  e atinge  seu  ponto  maximo  com  a justificativa 
de  que  Deus  podia  ser  prodigo,  porque  “nao  dependia  daquela  quantia  para 
comer.”  Essa  referencia  ao  ato  concreto,  fisiologico  e trivial  de  satisfazer  a fome. 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


154 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


ingerindo  o iiecessario  para  manter-se  vivo,  tern  obvio  efeito  dessacralizante: 
humaniza  Deus,  mas  tambem  o avilta.  Assim  sao  caracterizadas,  e,  ao  mesmo 
tempo,  dimiiiLiidas,  achincalhadas,  a generosidade  e a bondade  divinas.  Embora 
soe  como  tal,  a expressao  “endossantes  da  letra,”  diga-se  de  passagem,  nao  e mais 
Lima  das  metaforas  economicas  do  trecho  analisado,  uma  vez  que  “endossantes” 
aqui  nao  tern  qualqLier  rela^ao  com  o sentido  tecnico  do  termo  (ao  menos  atual- 
mente),  significando  “testemtinhas  da  obriga^ao”  {Dom  Casmurro  ^\) , que  esti- 
mulassem  ou  ate  mesmo  forgassem  Dona  Gloria  a cumpri-la.  Nessa  qualidade, 
portanto,  seriam  comparaveis  as  figuras  do  avalista  e do  fiador. 

Passemos  entao  ao  trecho  desse  mesmo  capitulo  80  que  trata  do  valor  de 
troca  da  inten^ao.  O narrador  continua  a especular  sobre  o que  teria  sentido 
e pensado  sua  mae,  imaginando  que  ela  teria  apostado  na  possibilidade  de  o 
amor  entre  Bentinho  e Capitu  tornar  o filho  “incompatiVel”  com  a carreira 
eclesiastica,  levando-o  a abandonar  o seminario: 

Neste  caso,  eu  romperia  o contrato  sem  que  ela  tivesse  culpa.  Ela  ficava  comigo  sem 
ato  propriamente  seu.  Era  como  se,  tendo  confiado  a alguem  a importdncia  de 
uma  divida  para  leva-la  ao  credor,  o portador  guardasse  o dinheiro  consigo  e nao 
levasse  nada.  Na  vida  comum,  o ato  de  terceiro  nao  desobriga  o contratante,  mas  a 
vantagem  de  contratar  com  o ceu  e que  intengao  vale  dinheiro.  ( 1 80;  italicos  nossos) 

Aqui,  novamente,  o que  institui  a divida — modalidade  preferencial  de 
relacionamento  com  Deus  para  o narrador-protagonista — e um  “contrato.” 
Ocorre-lhe  a hipotese  da  quebra  de  contrato,  especialidade  sua  ja  conhecida 
do  leitor,  uma  quebra,  porem,  que  eximisse  a mae  de  “culpa.”  Como  o cum- 
primento  do  contrato,  o pagamento  da  divida,  depende  tanto  dela  quanto 
dele,  nosso  advogado  compraz-se  em  argumentar,  aparentemente,  a favor  de 
Dona  Gloria,  a quern  atribui  tal  raciocinio  ou,  em  suas  palavras,  a “esperan^a 
I'ntima  e secreta”  (180)  de  que  isso  viesse  a acontecer.  Compara  o rompimento 
aventado  a atitude  do  portador  desonesto  de  bear  com  o dinheiro  que  deveria 
entregar  ao  credor,  saldando  a divida,  em  nome  do  devedor.  A promessa  feita 
para  ser  cumprida  por  terceiro  tambem  poderia  ser  quebrada  pelo  terceiro  em 
questao,  claro,  sem  que  o proponente  permanecesse  em  divida.  O argumento, 
entretanto,  nao  se  aplica  a “vida  comum,”  na  qual  “o  ato  de  terceiro  nao  deso-  \ 
briga  o contratante,”  esclarece  o narrador.  Nos  assuntos  do  espirito,  segundo 
ele,  a logica  seria  outra,  muito  embora  trate  a vida  espiritual  da  maneira  mais 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 55 

prosaica,  mais  destituida  de  eleva^ao,  pautando-a  por  criterios  comerciais  e 
sonegando-lhe  honestidade,  conforme  ilustra  a afirmativa:  “[...]  a vantagem 
de  contratar  com  o ceu  e que  inten^ao  vale  dinheiro.”  Resta  saber  se  ele  de 
fato  a teve  alguma  vez.  Mas  examinemos  melhor  essa  conclusao  de  Dom  Cas- 
murro.  Na  hipotese  de  Bentinho  romper  o contrato  deixando  o seminario  por 
iniciativa  propria,  Dona  Gloria  nao  teria  se  limitado  a intengao  de  pagar  a pro- 
messa,  cumprir  o contratado,  ela  teria  passado  a a^ao,  realizado  o prometido, 
na  parte  que  Ihe  cabia.  Como  vimos,  agir  sempre  foi  uma  dificuldade  do  pro- 
tagonista,  nao  de  sua  mae.  Sendo  assim,  a distin^ao  estabelecida  pelo  narrador 
entre  a logica  te’rrena  e a celestial  nao  derivaria  do  raciocinio  que  a antecede. 

O exemplo  do  portador  desonesto  mascara  parcialmente  essa  impropriedade: 
nesse  caso,  o combinado  nao  se  realiza,  a diVida  nao  se  paga,  porque  o media- 
dor,  a terceira  parte  envolvida,  nao  chega  a cumprir  seu  papel  executivo.  Ao 
contrario  do  portador  imaginado,  Bentinho  teria  cumprido  o seu,  ao  menos 
temporariamente,  caracterizando  o ato  de  pagamento  da  diVida  pela  mae.  Na 
verdade,  nem  o devedor  ludibriado  teria  ficado  so  na  inten^ao.  Alem  disso, 
no  exemplo  proposto,  a participa9ao  de  terceiro  nao  e indispensavel,  sendo 
necessariamente  maior  a responsabilidade  do  devedor. 

Escobar,  Capita,  ideias  aritmeticas  e libras  esterlinas 

No  capitulo  93,  “Um  amigo  por  um  defunto,”  Bentinho  recebe  a visita  de 
Escobar  e apresenta  o rapaz  a fami'lia.  Ao  relatar  a opiniao  do  agregado  e dos 
familiares  sobre  seu  novo  amigo,  o narrador  reproduz  tambem  a conversa  que 
manteve  com  eles  depois  que  Escobar  passou  a freqiientar  a casa: 

Todos  ficaram  gostando  dele.  Eu  estava  tao  contente  como  se  Escobar  fosse  inven- 
<;ao  minha.  Jose  Dias  desfechou-lhe  dous  superlativos,  tio  Cosme  dous  capotes,  e 
prima  Justina  nao  achou  tacha  que  Ihe  por;  depois,  sim,  no  segundo  ou  terceiro 
domingo,  veio  ela  confessar-nos  que  o meu  amigo  Escobar  era  um  tanto  metedigo 
e tinha  uns  olhos  policiais  a que  nao  escapava  nada. 

— Sao  os  olhos  dele,  expliquei. 

— Nem  eu  digo  que  sejam  de  outro. 

— Sao  olhos  refletidos,  opinou  tio  Cosme. 

— Seguramente,  acudiu  Jose  Dias;  entretanto,  pode  ser  que  a senhora  Dona 
Justina  tenha  alguma  razao.  A verdade  e que  uma  cousa  nao  impede  outra,  e a 
reflexdo  casa-se  muito  hem  a curiosidade  natural.  Parece  curioso,  isso  parece,  mas... 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


156 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


— A mim  parece-me  um  mocinho  muito  serio,  disse  minha  mae. 

— ^^liistamente!  confirmou  Jose  Dias  para  nao  discordar  dela.  {Dom  Casmurro 
193;  italicos  nossos) 

As  caracterisdcas  salientadas  aqui — curiosidade  e reflexao — sao  precisa- 
mente  aquelas  que  o narrador  procura  realgar  ao  longo  do  livro  em  Capitu 
e,  no  caso  da  tendencia  reflexiva,  tambem  em  Ezequiel.  Vale  recordar  uma 
passagem  do  capitulo  31,  “As  curiosidades  de  Capitu”: 

Capita  era  Capitu,  isto  e,  uma  criatura  mui  particular,  mais  mulher  do  que  eu  era 
homem.  Se  ainda  o nao  disse,  ai  fica.  Se  disse,  fica  tambem.  Hd  conceitos  que  se 
devem  incutir  na  alma  do  leitor,  a forga  de  repetigao. 

Era  tambem  mais  curiosa.  As  curiosidades  de  Capitu  dao  para  um  Capitulo. 

Eram  de  varia  especie,  explicaveis  e inexplicaveis,  assim  uteis  como  imiteis,  umas 
graves,  outras  InVolas;  gostava  de  saber  tudo.  (Ill;  italicos  nossos) 

Alem  da  curiosidade  e do  destemor  de  Capitu,  o narrador-protagonista 
sublinha  aqui  sua  propria  estrategia  narrativa:  incutir  no  leitor  conceitos  “a 
for9a  de  repeti^ao,”  conforme  assinalado  em  se^ao  anterior  deste  capitulo.  A 
caracteristica  meditativa  acresce,  como  vimos,  a argucia  de  Capitu,  Escobar  e 
Ezequiel  no  trato  com  o dinheiro.  Quanto  ao  filho  de  Bento  e Capitu,  ja  se 
comentou  aqui  o capitulo  1 10,  “Rasgos  da  infancia.”  O capitulo  106,  “Dez 
libras  esterlinas,”  ilustra  bem  esse  aspecto,  no  que  se  refere  a Capitu,  e a asso- 
cia  secretamente  a Escobar  numa  transa^ao  financeira,  conferindo  “for^a  de 
repeti^ao”  ao  capitulo  113,  “Embargos  de  terceiro,”  no  qual  Bento  encontra  o 
melhor  amigo  em  sua  casa,  ao  voltar  de  uma  opera  no  fim  do  primeiro  ato,  pois 
estaria  preocupado  com  a mulher  que,  adoecida,  nao  o acompanhara.  O nar- 
rador-protagonista inicia  o capitulo  106  dizendo  que  Capitu  era  “poupada 
[...]  nao  so  de  dinheiro  mas  tambem  de  coisas  usadas,  dessas  que  se  guardam 
por  tradi^ao,  por  lembran^a  ou  por  saudade,”  e cita  o exemplo  de  uns  sapa- 
tos  dela  quando  crian^a,  “os  liltimos  que  usou  antes  de  calcar  botinas.”  Em 
seguida,  anuncia:  “Quanto  as  puras  economias  de  dinheiro,  direi  um  caso  e 
basta”  (21 1).  O caso  consiste  nas  dez  libras  esterlinas  que  Capitu  juntara  em 
segredo,  “sobras  do  dinheiro”  que  recebia  do  marido  “mensalmente  para  as  ^ 
despesas”  (212).  A rea^ao  de  Bento  contrasta  com  a austeridade  monetaria  de 
Capitu,  como  se  so  ela  desse  importancia  ao  dinheiro  e ele  valorizasse  mais 
a iniciativa  de  ajudar  no  or^amento  domestico  que  a quantia  assim  gerada: 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  157 

— Nao  e muito,  dez  libras  so;  e o que  a avarenta  de  sua  mulher  pode  arranjar,  em 
alguns  meses,  concluiu  fazendo  tinir  o ouro  na  mao. 

— Quern  foi  o corretor? 

— O seu  amigo  Escobar. 

— Como  e que  ele  nao  me  disse  nada? 

— Foi  hoje  mesmo. 

— Ele  esteve  ca? 

— Pouco  antes  de  voce  chegar;  eu  nao  disse  para  que  voce  nao  desconfiasse. 

Tive  vontade  de  gastar  o dobro  do  ouro  em  algum  presente  comemorativo, 
mas  Capitu  deteve-me.  Ao  contrario,  consultou-me  sobre  o que  haviamos  de  fazer 
daquelas  libras.  (212) 

E Bento  acaba  por  tornar  ocioso  o esfor^o  de  Capitu,  pois  primeiro  dis- 
pensa  as  economias  afirmando  que  sao  dela  e,  diante  da  replica  da  mulher  de 
que  eram  do  casal,  confia-lhe  a guarda  das  libras,  em  vez  de  utiliza-las. 

Ainda  no  capitulo  93,  e preciso  destacar  alguns  pontos:  os  elogios  enfa- 
ticos  de  Escobar  a mae  de  Betinho,  seu  manifesto  interesse  no  patrimonio 
imobiliario  e nos  escravos  da  viuva  Santiago,  alem  da  tendencia  a ostentar,  ate 
mesmo  certo  prazer  nisso,  da  parte  de  Bentinho,  que  nao  so  vai  apontando  e 
identificando  um  por  um  os  negros  de  propriedade  da  familia,  mas  tambem 
sai  enumerando  os  imoveis  de  Dona  Gloria,  como  quern  faz  um  inventario 
de  todos  esses  bens: 

Contei-lhe  o que  sabia  da  vida  dela  e de  meu  pai.  Escobar  escutava  atento,  per- 
guntando  mais,  pedindo  explica9ao  das  passagens  omissas  ou  so  escuras.  Quando 
eu  Ihe  disse  que  nao  me  lembrava  nada  da  ro^a,  tao  pequenino  viera,  contou-me 
duas  ou  tres  reminiscencias  dos  seus  tres  anos  de  idade,  ainda  agora  frescas.  E nao 
contavamos  voltar  a ro<;a? 

— Nao,  agora  nao  voltamos  mais.  Olhe,  aquele  preto  que  ali  vai  passando,  e 
de  la.  Tomas! 

— Nhonho! 

Estavamos  na  horta  da  minha  casa,  e o preto  andava  em  servi^o;  chegou-se  a 
nos  e esperou. 

— E casado,  disse  eu  para  Escobar.  Maria  onde  esta? 

— Esta  socando  milho,  sim,  senhor. 

— Voce  ainda  se  lembra  da  ro^a,  Tomas? 

— Alembra,  sim,  senhor. 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


158 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


— Bern,  va-se  embora. 

Mostrei  outro,  mais  outro,  e ainda  outro,  este  Pedro,  aquele  Jose,  aquele  outro 
Damiao... 

— Todas  as  letras  do  alfabeto,  interrompeu  Escobar. 

Com  efeito,  eram  diferentes  letras,  e so  entao  reparei  nisto;  apontei  ainda 
outros  escravos  [...]. 

— E estao  todos  aqui  em  casa?  perguntou  ele. 

— Nao,  alguns  andam  ganhando  na  rua,  outros  estao  alugados  Nao  era  possi- 
vel  ter  todos  em  casa.  Nem  sao  todos  os  da  ro9a:  a maior  parte  ficou  la. 

— O que  me  admira  e que  D.  Gloria  se  acostumasse  logo  a viver,  em  casa  da 
cidade,  onde  tudo  e apertado;  a de  la  e naturalmente  grande. 

— Nao  sei,  mas  parece.  Mamae  tern  outras  casas  maiores  que  esta;  diz  porem 
que  ha  de  morrer  aqui.  As  outras  estao  alugadas.  Algumas  sao  bem  grandes,  como 
a da  Rua  da  Quitanda... 

— Conhe^o  essa,  e bonita. 

— Tern  tambem  no  Rio  Comprido,  na  Cidade-Nova,  uma  no  Catete... 

— Nao  Ihe  hao  de  faltar  tetos,  concluiu  ele  sorrindo  com  simpatia.  (194-95) 

Tanto  essa  conversa  se  assemelha  a um  inventario  informal,  que,  no  capf- 
tulo  seguinte,  Escobar  calcula  de  cabega  nao  o valor  das  casas,  mas  de  seu 
aluguel,  a pretexto  de  provar  a superioridade  das  “ideias  aritmeticas”  e sua 
destreza  em  maneja-las:  “ — For  exemplo...  de-me  um  caso,  de-me  uma  por^ao 
de  mimeros  que  eu  nao  saiba  nem  possa  saber  antes...  olhe,  de-me  o numero 
das  casas  de  sua  mae  e os  alugueis  de  cada  uma,  e se  eu  nao  disser  a soma  total 
em  dois,  em  um  minuto,  enforque-me!”  (196). 

Escobar  alia  a inclina^ao  comercial  a habilidade  para  a matematica,  fato 
que  os  capitulos  94,  “Ideias  aritmeticas,”  e o 96,  “O  substituto,”  evidenciam. 
No  capitulo  94,  citado  acima,  assinalem-se  ainda  estas  outras  passagens: 

Nao  digo  o mais,  que  foi  muito.  Nem  ele  sabia  so  elogiar  e pensar,  sabia  tambem 
calcular  depressa  e bem  [...].  Nao  se  imagina  a facilidade  com  que  ele  somava  ou 
multiplicava  de  cor  [...].  A voca^ao  era  tal  que  o fazia  amar  os  proprios  sinais  das 
somas,  e tinha  esta  opiniao  que  os  algarismos,  sendo  poucos,  eram  muito  mais 
conceituosos  que  as  vinte  e cinco  letras  do  alfabeto. 

— [...]  Mas  onde  a perfeigao  e maior  e no  emprego  do  zero.  O valor  do  zero  e, 
em  si  mesmo,  nada;  mas  o oficio  deste  sinal  negativo  e justamente  aumentar.  Um  5 
sozinho  e um  5;  ponha-lhe  dous  00,  e 500.  Assim,  o que  nao  vale  nada  faz  valer 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  159 

muito,  cousa  que  nao  fazem  as  letras  dobradas,  pois  eu  tanto  aprovo  com  um  p 
como  com  dous  pp.  (195-96;  italicos  nossos) 

Assim  como  um  agregado,  que  depende  da  familia  a qual  se  vincula,  e,  ao 
vincular-se,  comprova  o status  ou  o valor  social  desta,  o algarismo  zero  adquire 
valor  quando  posto  a direita  de  outro  algarismo  ao  mesmo  tempo  que  con- 
fere  valor  a esse  algarismo.  Alem  disso,  quanto  mais  habil  e perspicaz,  mais 
esse  agregado  “faz  valer”  sua  associa^ao  a proprietarios  ricos.  Noutras  palavras, 
aquele  que  socialmente  nada  vale  se  beneficia  da  vizinban^a,  da  proximidade 
com  aquele  que  tern  valor  socioeconomico.  Escobar  e como  um  zero  que  valo- 
riza  a si  proprio  ao  se  aproximar  de  proprietarios  ricos  como  Bento  Santiago  e 
sua  mae.  Tanto  ba  uma  equivalencia  entre  o procedimento  de  Escobar,  a “ami- 
zade”  que  cultiva  com  Bentinho,  e o comportamento  de  alguem  que  se  associa, 
como  agregado,  a uma  familia  rica,  que  essa  analogia  e sugerida  no  inicio  do 
capitulo  95,  “O  papa”:  “A  amizade  de  Escobar  fez-se  grande  e fecunda;  a de 
Jose  Dias  nao  Ihe  quis  bear  atras”  (197).  Nesse  capitulo,  alias,  Jose  Dias  diz  a 
Bentinho  ter  encontrado  um  meio  de  faze-lo  sair  de  vez  do  seminario — iriam 
os  dois  a Roma  “pedir  a absolvi9ao  do  papa”  (198).  Ao  detalhar  seu  piano,  Jose 
Dias  mescla  considera^oes  pecuniarias  a outras  religiosas  e formais: 

— Quern  tern  boca  vai  a Roma,  e boca  no  nosso  caso  e a moeda.  Ora,  voce  pode 
muito  bem  gastar  consigo...  Comigo,  nao;  um  par  de  calgas,  tres  camisas  e o pao  didrio, 
nao  precise  mais.  Serei  como  Sao  Paulo,  que  vivia  do  oficio  enquanto  ia  pregando 
a palavra  divina.  Pois  eu  vou,  nao  prega-la,  mas  busca-la.  Levaremos  cartas  do 
intermincio  e do  bispo,  cartas  para  o nosso  ministro,  cartas  de  capuchinhos...  Bem 
sei  a obje^ao  que  se  pode  opor  a esta  ideia;  dirao  que  e dado  pedir  a dispensa  ca 
de  longe;  mas,  alem  do  mais  nao  digo,  basta  refletir  que  e muito  solene  e bonito 
ver  entrar  no  Vaticano  e prostrar-se  aos  pes  do  papa  o proprio  objeto  do  favor,  o 
levita  prometido,  que  vai  pedir  para  sua  mae  ternissima  e dulcissima  a dispensa  de 
Deus.  (198;  italicos  nossos) 

Referindo-se  ao  poder  de  conquista  de  quern  sabe  se  comunicar,  o conhe- 
cido  proverbio  aqui  troca  o poder  da  comunica9ao  pelo  poder  do  dinheiro, 
que  fala  mais  alto  — a boca,  no  caso  deles,  e a moeda  que  nao  os  levaria  ape- 
nas  a uma  Roma  metaforica,  mas  a Roma  propriamente  dita,  ao  Vaticano, 
facilitando,  pela  posi^ao  socioeconomica  dos  Santiagos,  a obtenq:ao  de  “cartas 
do  internuncio  e do  bispo”  e financiando  a viagem  que  daria  pompa  e apelo 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


160 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


dramatico  ao  pedido  de  dispensa,  e,  ao  mesmo  tempo,  realizaria  o sonho  de 
Jose  Dias  de  ir  a Etiropa. 

Gramas  a refiexao  e ao  talento  para  os  negocios  de  Escobar,  encontra-se  a 
etetiva  solu^ao  para  tirar  Bentinho  do  seminario  e cancelar  seu  futuro  eclesias- 
tico,  sem  descumprir  o prometido  por  sua  mae.  Na  verdade,  Escobar  altera 
parcialmente  o teor  da  promessa,  despersonalizando  nao  o alvo  da  gra9a,  mas  o 
objeto  destinado  ao  sacerdocio.  Recordemos  o conteiido  original  da  promessa: 
“Tendo-lhe  nascido  morto  o primeiro  filho,  minha  mae  pegou-se  com  Deus 
para  que  o segundo  vingasse,  prometendo,  se  fosse  varao,  mete-lo  na  igreja” 
(80).  Vejamos  a solu^ao  proposta  por  Escobar  no  capftulo  96,  “Um  substituto”: 

— Nao,  Bentinho,  nao  e preciso  isso.  Ha  melhor,  — nao  digo  melhor,  porque  o 
Santo  Padre  vale  sempre  mais  que  tudo,  — mas  ha  coisa  que  produz  o mesmo  efeito. 

— Que  e? 

— Sua  mae  fez  promessa  a Deus  de  Ihe  dar  um  sacerdote  nao  e? 

Pois  bem,  de-lhe  um  sacerdote,  que  nao  seja  voce.  Ela  pode  muito  bem  tomar 
a si  algum  mocinho  orfao,  faze-lo  ordenar  a sua  custa,  esta  dado  um  padre  ao 
altar,  sem  que  voce... 

— Entendo,  entendo,  e isso  mesmo. 

— Nao  acha?  continuou  ele.  Consulte  sobre  isto  o protonotario:  ele  Ihe  dira  se  nao 
e a mesma  coisa,  ou  eu  mesmo  consulto,  se  quer  e se  ele  hesitar,  fala-se  ao  Sr.  bispo. 

Eu,  refletindo: 

— Sim,  parece  que  e isso;  realmente,  a promessa  cumpre-se,  nao  se  perdendo 
o padre.  (200) 

Escobar  faz  referencia  a proposta  de  Jose  Dias  como  quern  fala  de  dinheiro: 
do  mesmo  modo  que  a nota  de  valor  mais  alto  na  escala  monetaria,  o papa, 
“vale  sempre  mais  que  tudo,”  mas  nao  e preciso  tanto  para  conseguir  o que 
se  deseja,  com  bem  menos  ja  se  obtem  a dispensa  almejada.  Analogamente, 
Bentinho  vale  mais  na  hierarquia  social  que  um  “mocinho  orfao,”  e e mais 
valioso  para  sua  mae  que  qualquer  outro  adolescente;  mas  para  ser  padre, 
basta  ser  homem.  Assim,  depois  de  reformulada  por  Escobar,  a promessa  passa 
a ter  um  custo  menor.  Do  ponto  de  vista  propriamente  economico,  o amigo 
seminarista  ainda  argumenta  que  o custo  seria  equivalente:  “Escobar  observou 
que,  pelo  lado  economico,  a questao  era  facil;  minha  mae  gastaria  o mesmo  que 
comigo,  e um  orfao  nao  precisaria  grandes  comodidades.  Citou  a soma  dos 
alugueis  das  casas,  1.070$000,  alem  dos  escravos...”  (200;  italicos  nossos). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  161 

Obviamente,  essa  solu^ao  implica  um  gasto  adicional,  que  e o de  sustentar 
alguem  de  fora  da  famflia.  De  qualquer  modo,  toda  a argumenta^ao  de  Esco- 
bar, assim  como  sua  idda  de  saida,  ja  estao  impregnadas  da  logica  economica. 

A passagem  acima,  e o aniincio  que  a ela  se  segue  de  que  Escobar  deixaria  o 
seminario  junto  com  Bentinho,  porque  sua  inten^ao  era  tornar-se  comerciante, 
apenas  confirmam  tal  orienta9ao:  “ — You  melhorar  o meu  latim  e saio;  nem 
dou  teologia.  O proprio  latim  nao  e preciso;  para  que  no  comercio?”  (200). 
t 

I O purgatorio  como  casa  de  penhores 

I No  capitulo  114,  “Em  que  se  explica  o explicado,”  o narrador-protagonista 

* recorda  mais  uma  vez  o artiffcio  por  ele  usado,  ja  como  estudante  de  direito 

em  Sao  Paulo,  “para  nao  faltar  ao  juramento”  {Dom  Casmurro  223)  feito  a 
Capitu,  quando  ainda  estava  no  seminario  e juraram  um  ao  outro  nao  esque- 
cer  o pregao  cantado  por  um  vendedor  ambulante:  recorreu  a um  professor  de 
musica,  que  Ihe  escreveu  a toada  num  peda^o  de  papel. 

O Diciondrio  Houaiss,  cujo  verbete  “juramento”  decalca  parcialmente  o de 
“serment”  do  “Petit  Robert,”  assim  define  o termo:  “[...]  afirma9ao  ou  pro- 
messa  solene  que  se  faz  invocando  como  penhor  de  sua  boa-fe  um  valor  moral 
reconhecido.”  Segundo  o Caldas  Aulete,  dicionario  que  Machado  consultava, 
juramento  e “a  formula  com  que  se  jura,  promete  ou  afirma  tomando  a Deus 
por  testemunha  ou  invocando  o nome  de  coisa  que  se  reputa  sagrada.”  O 
narrador  considera-o  uma  categoria  imoral  de  promessa,  uma  vez  que  “nin- 
guem  sabe  se  ha  ou  nao  de  manter  um  juramento.”  “Cousas  futuras!”  {Dom 
Casmurro  223),  exclama  ele,  enfatizando,  com  essa  expressao  biblica,  a impos- 
sibilidade  de  controlar  o que  esta  por  vir,  assim  como  os  limites  da  propria 
memoria.  O juramento,  quer  se  atribua  a ele  carater  religioso,  quer  nao,  so 
garantiria  a sinceridade  de  quern  o faz,  sua  inten^ao  de  honra-lo.  Por  tomar 
Deus  como  testemunha,  ou  invocar  um  valor  moral  reconhecido  como  garan- 
tia,  em  prindpio,  oferece  mais  seguran^a  quanto  a seu  cumprimento  que  a 
promessa  e,  por  isso  mesmo,  seria  moralmente  mais  condenavel.  Na  verdade, 
so  a simples  afirma^ao  seria  de  fato  honesta  nessa  perspectiva:  “Portanto,  a 
nossa  constitui9ao  politica,  transferindo  o juramento  a afirma<;ao  simples,  e 
profundamente  moral.  Acabou  com  um  pecado  hornVel”  (223). 

No  im'cio  da  digressao,  o narrador  tacha  de  “pecado  hornVel”  assegurar 
a realiza^ao  de  alguma  coisa  sobre  a qual  nao  se  tern  tal  controle  e que  pode 
perfeitamente  levar  quern  jura  a descumprir  sua  palavra.  No  juramento,  nao 
ha  mentira  no  sentido  do  logro,  do  embuste,  mas  tanto  esse  tipo  de  promessa 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


162 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


quanto  qiialqiier  outro,  qiie  nao  dependa  exclusivamente  da  vontade  e da  I 
determina^ao  de  qiiem  as  faz,  seriam  mentirosos,  ao  menos  potencialmente. 

Ao  jurarem  nao  esquecer  a toada,  Capita  e Bentinho  teriam  mentido.  Ate 
pelo  kto  de  ter  pedido  qiie  Ihe  transcrevessem  a toada  enquanto  ainda  a recor- 
dava,  o protagonista  acabou  por  esquece-la.  Ao  fingir  nao  ter  esquecido  o 
pregao,  teria  mentido  Lima  segunda  vez  e acusa-se  por  isso:  “Mas  has  de  crer 
que,  quando  corri  aos  papks  velhos,  naquela  noite  na  Gloria,  tambem  me  nao 
lembrava  ja  da  toada  nem  do  texto?  Fiz-me  de pontual ao  juramento,  e este  e que 
foi  0 meu  pecado\  esquecer,  qualquer  esquece”  (223;  italicos  nossos). 

O narrador  prossegue  na  orienta^ao  religiosa  que  da  a discussao,  asso- 
ciando  mais  uma  vez  a moral  a economia  e a contabilidade: 

Faltar  ao  compromisso  e sempre  infidelidade,  mas  a alguem  que  tenha  mais  temor 
a Deus  que  aos  homens  nao  Ihe  importard  mentir,  uma  vez  ou  outra,  desde  que 
nao  mete  a alma  no  purgatorio.  Nao  confundam  purgatorio  com  inferno,  que  e 
o eterno  naufragio.  Purgatorio  e uma  casa  de  penhores,  que  empresta  sobre  todas  as 
virtudes,  a juro  alto  e prazo  curto.  Mas  os  prazos  renovam-se,  ate  que  um  dia  uma 
ou  duas  virtudes  medianas  pagam  todos  os  pecados  grandes  e pequenos.  (223-24; 
italicos  nossos) 

Dom  Casmurro  admite  entao  que  ate  mesmo  um  individuo  temente  a 
Deus  nao  se  incomodaria  em  mentir  “desde  que  nao  mete  a alma  no  pur- 
gatorio.” Como  ja  se  assinalou  antes,  esse  e mais  um  exemplo  de  metafora 
concretizadora,  procedimento  caro  ao  autor  e que  ja  prepara  a metafora  pecu- 
niaria  do  purgatorio  como  casa  de  penhores,  metafora  essa  que  se  desdobra 
ate  encerrar  o capitulo.  Embora  tal  ressalva  que  consente  na  mentira  venha  i 
logo  apos  uma  referenda  a infidelidade  de  faltar  a um  juramento,  parece  antes  i 
referir-se  a mentira  de  tdlo  cumprido,  a simulada  pontualidade  do  protago- 
nista. A metafora  pecuniaria  desse  capitulo  envolve  um  novo  tipo  de  contrato- 
— o emprestimo  obtido  em  casa  de  penhor,  isto  e,  “um  estabelecimento  que 
empresta  dinheiro  a juros,  recebendo,  como  garantia,  objetos  de  valor”  (Hou- 
aiss).  Nessa  concepqao  do  purgatorio,  as  virtudes  sao  os  itens  de  valor,  deixa- 
dos  em  garantia  do  emprdtimo  que  se  destina  a pagar  as  diVidas  dos  pecados. 

Se,  na  linguagem  comum,  a expressao  ''pagar  os  pecados”  significa  sofrer  as 
conseqiiencias  de  algum  ato  praticado,  expiar  alguma  falta  ou  simplesmente 
padecer,  aqui  sugere  uma  compensaqao  contabil:  o credito  proveniente  das 
virtudes  salda  o debito  constituido  pelos  pecados,  numa  equivalencia  que 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


163 


pouco  tern  a ver  com  a realidade  economica  do  mercado,  como  se  os  juros  se 
acumulassem  em  proveito  do  devedor  e nao  contra  ele. 

Conclusao 

No  livro  Metdfora,  espelho  de  Machado  de  Assis  (1974),  Dierce  Cortes  Riedel 
dedica  um  breve  e agudo  capi'tulo,  intitulado  “Lucros  e perdas,”  a comentar  em 
Dom  Casmurro  e Memorial  de  Aires  o mesmo  campo  tematico  aqui  discutido: 

Na  curva  da  freqiiencia  dos  motivos  machadianos,  um  lugar  de  realce  e ocupado 
pela  ideia  de  ‘contrato’  e de  ‘promessa,’  a qual  rege  o comercio  dos  homens. 
Obrigaq:6es  para  com  Deus,  para  com  a sociedade,  para  com  a consciencia;  pro- 
messas  feitas  com  fervor,  ou  meramente  convencionais;  letras  reformadas  com  ou 
sem  juros,  contratos  rompidos  ou  mantidos... 

A solu^ao  temporaria  do  que  parece  ser,  a primeira  vista,  a complica^ao  do 
enredo,  vem  por  intermedio  de  um  sacerdote,  o protonotario  Cabral,  que  acha  um 
meio:  se,  no  fim  de  dois  anos,  Bentinho  nao  revelasse  voca^ao  eclesiastica,  seguiria 
outra  carreira.  A concessao  clerical  sugere  a barganha,  com  a releva9ao  da  diVida, 
e o narrador  opera  metaforicamente,  com  jogos  de  palavras  da  area  semantica 
‘debito/credito’ — ‘Era  uma  concessao  do  padre.  Dava  a minha  mae  um  perdao 
antecipado,  fazendo  vir  do  credor  a releva^ao  da  diVida.’ 

E a base  de  tais  transa^oes  que  se  vai  desenrolando  a historia  de  D.  Casmurro, 
o qual,  como  narrador,  compoe  a estoria  do  romance:  negocia-se  o pagamento  das 
dfvidas,  inventando-se  caminhos  varios,  para  que  as  consciencias  se  mantenham 
tranqiiilas  e mtegras.  (73,  75-76) 

As  observa^es  da  autora  nesses  paragrafos  ja  foram  suficientemente  com- 
provadas  aqui.  Convem  enfatizar,  no  entanto,  a finalidade  das  transa9oes  que 
pontuam  o romance,  segundo  Riedel:  visam  a manter  as  consciencias  “tran- 
quilas  e integras.”  Desse  modo,  as  ideias  afins  de  promessa,  contrato,  favor, 
divida,  todas  as  transagoes,  enfim,  que  dominam  a interagao  das  personagens 
em  Dom  Casmurro  estariam  subordinadas  a ideia  de  contabilidade  moral,  eis 
uma  das  hipoteses  de  leitura  que  gostaria  de  sugerir.  Entre  os  capitulos  que 
mais  explicitam  essa  contabilidade,  destaco  o 20,  o 68,  o 69  e o 114,  todos 
comentados  aqui. 

PrevisiVel  em  autobiografias  ou  fic^oes  de  autobiografia,  a ideia  de  balan^o, 
de  contabilidade  e mais  abrangente  em  Dom  Casmurro,  estendendo-se  ao  piano 
metalingiiistico,  metanarrativo,  tao  caro  ao  autor  nos  romances  da  segunda  fase. 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


164 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Na  se^ao  intitulada  “contabilidade  narrativa,”  do  capitulo  dedicado  a Dom 
CasmurrOy  em  scli  livro  Os  leitores  de  Machado  de  Assis:  o romance  machadiano 
e 0 publico  de  literatura  no  seculo  XIX  (2004),  Helio  Guimaraes  observa  que 
“a  materialidade  do  processo  literario  esta  representada  de  maneira  bastante 
explicita”  nessa  obra,  com  a peculiaridade  de  um  narrador  empenhado  em 
quantificar  e atribuir  valor  pecunidrio  a tal  processo,  vinculando,  desse  modo 
particular,  a escrita  a considera^oes  editorials  e recepcionais: 

O procedimento  metadiscursivo  consiste  em  participar  o leitor  das  escolhas  reali- 
zadas  para  a arquitetura  do  relato  em  fun^ao  das  implica^oes  disso  sobre  o tama- 
nho,  a apresenta^ao  e ate  mesmo  o pre^o  que  as  palavras  e os  episodios  narrados 
terao  ao  chegar  a sua  forma  final  [...].  Essas  pondera^oes  nao  se  fazem  em  torno 
de  questoes  esteticas  ou  morals,  mas  a luz  do  numero  de  paginas  ou  capitulos  que 
a narra<;ao  de  um  determinado  fato  viria  a ocupar.  A quantifica^ao  [...]  evidencia 
a necessidade  de  pesar  bem  o interesse  da  historia  em  funqao  do  tempo  que  ela 
tomara  do  leitor.  (225) 

Dai  o escrupulo  comercial  do  narrador-autor  na  seguinte  passagem: 
se  alguem  tiver  de  ler  o meu  livro  com  alguma  atenq:ao  mais  da  que  Ihe  exigir 
o prcgo  do  exemplar,  nao  deixe  de  concluir  que  o diabo  nao  e tao  feio  como  se 
pinta”  {Dom  Casmurro  192;  italico  nosso).  A materialidade  do  livro  aparece 
aqui  mais  explicitamente  ligada  ao  dinheiro  e ao  comercio,  trata-se  do  livro 
como  produto  suscetiVel  de  ser  vendido  a um  comprador,  ao  qual  em  princi- 
pio  deve  agradar  e nao  repugnar.  O capitulo  92,  que  ja  traz  no  titulo  o prover- 
bio  citado,  encerra  uma  serie  em  torno  da  morte  penosa  e da  existencia  nao 
menos  sofrida  de  Manduca,  vizinho  pobre  e leproso  do  protagonista  na  ado- 
lescencia.  E como  se  Dom  Casmurro  nao  quisesse  quebrar  o “contrato”  com 
esse  leitor-comprador  que  espera  uma  narrativa  cujo  interesse  ou  cuja  capa- 
cidade  de  sedu^ao  seja  no  mi'nimo  proporcional  ao  pre^o  pago  pelo  livro.  Na 
infancia  e na  adolescencia,  ele  descumpria  todos  os  contratos  firmados  com 
Deus  em  suas  promessas.  Depois  de  adulto  e casado,  aparentemente,  honra 
sens  compromissos,  ao  contrario  da  esposa,  segundo  acredita  e quer  fazer  crer. 
Assim,  a tendencia  de  concretiza9ao  do  abstrato,  assinalada  por  Riedel  no 
piano  do  estilo,  tambem  se  veriflca  em  diversos  pianos  tematicos,  incluindo  o 
da  metalinguagem,  em  sentido  amplo.  No  mVel  do  conteudo,  qualquer  que 
seja  o piano  tematico,  a tendencia  a concretiza^ao,  a enfase  na  materialidade 
estao  associadas  ao  dinheiro,  ao  valor  pecuniario,  ao  aspecto  mercantil.  Se  esse 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  165 

e o aspecto  decisivo,  o empenho  em  “concretizar”  o mundo  espiritual,  moral 
e afetivo,  assimilando-o  ao  material,  corresponderia  ao  desejo  de  tornar  seus 
elementos,  suas  realidades,  mais  facil  ou  claramente  avalidveis. 

Tudo  o que  se  expos  ate  aqui  ilustra  bem  a afirma^ao  de  Paul  Dixon, 

I em  seu  fundamental  Retired  Dreams-.  Dom  Casmurro,  Myth  and  Modernity 
(1989):  “In  Machado’s  novel,  money  comes  into  play  both  literally  and  figu- 
ratively. In  either  case,  its  symbolism  is  supercharged:  it  becomes  a matter 
of  life  and  death. Uma  das  ocasioes  em  que  isso  acontece  e precisamente 
quando  se  encontra  um  meio  de  honrar  a promessa  de  Dona  Gloria  sem  sacri- 
ficar  Bentinho.  Como  salientou  Dixon,  ao  custear  o seminario  e a ordena^ao 
de  um  orfao  no  lugar  do  filho,  a mae  do  protagonista:  “[...]  pays  off  her  figu- 
rative debt  in  literal  currency. Sem  esquecer  outros  exemplos  nos  quais  se 
trata  literalmente  de  vida  ou  morte,  e nao  apenas  de  algum  aspecto  decisivo. 

Um  primeiro  exemplo,  ja  analisado  aqui,  e o do  capftulo  67,  no  qual  Dona 
Gloria,  muito  doente,  de  fato  corre  risco  de  vida,  e Bentinho  pede  a Deus  que 
a salve,  gra^a  a ser  paga  por  ele  em  dinheiro  espiritual,  dois  mil  padre-nossos. 

Como  a promessa  nao  e paga,  o devedor  cinicamente  a considera  moeda  fidu- 
ciaria — aquela  que,  mesmo  sem  lastro,  pode  ser  aceite.  Um  segundo  exem- 
plo esta  no  capftulo  133,  “O  dia  de  sabado.”  Lembremos  a passagem  desse 
capftulo  na  qual  Bento  Santiago  narra  o que  sentiu  quando  trazia  consigo  o 
veneno  recem-comprado,  morte  portatil  como  um  relogio  de  bolso.  Nessa 
passagem,  a eternidade  e a incorruptibilidade  da  morte  sao  expressas  em  mais 
outra  metafora  pecuniaria: 

Sei  que  escrevi  algumas  cartas,  comprei  uma  substancia,  que  nao  digo,  para  nao 
espertar  o desejo  de  prova-la.  A farmacia  faliu,  e verdade;  o dono  fez-se  banqueiro, 
e o banco  prospera.  Quando  me  achei  com  a morte  no  bolso  senti  tamanha  alegria 
como  se  acabasse  de  tirar  a sorte  grande,  ou  ainda  maior,  porque  o premio  da 
loteria  gasta-se,  e a morte  nao  se  gasta.  {Dom  Casmurro  244) 

Ate  a morte — “premio”  que  nao  se  gasta — pode  ser  comprada  numa  trivial 
farmacia.  Nesse  papel,  de  fornecer  um  meio  nao  para  salvar  a vida,  mas  para 
extingui-la,  a farmacia  tambem  teria  falido,  falhado  em  seu  proposito  ultimo. 
Coincidentemente,  quando  ha  uma  ameaqa  a vida,  uma  “falencia”  da  farma- 
cia, as  finanqas  florescem:  o boticario  virou  banqueiro  prospero;  Bentinho 
se  tornou  adulto  e assim  capaz  de  dispor  de  seu  proprio  dinheiro  como  bem 
entendesse,  ate  mesmo  para  se  matar.  A morte  pode  ser  comprada,  esta  ao 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VIU\R 


166 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


alcance  do  bolso,  e,  do  mesmo  modo  que  o dinheiro,  e posta  na  algibeira  pelo 
protagonista.  Dessa  forma,  o dinheiro  real  compra  a possiVel  solu^ao  definitiva 
para  a infelicidade  de  Bento  Santiago.  No  capitulo  137,  “Segundo  impulso,” 
o desejo  suicida  do  protagonista  cede  lugar  a um  I'mpeto  assassino.  Depois  de 
misturar  veneno  ao  cafe  trazido  pelo  copeiro,  Santiago  resolve  aguardar  que  a 
mulher  e o filho  saiam  para  a missa,  mas  Ezequiel  entra  no  gabinete  do  pai  e 
corre  ate  ele.  A vista  do  menino  Ihe  da  “outro  impulso,”  o de  matar  a crian^a 
a quern  oferece  a xicara  de  cafe  envenenado.  Como  se  arrepende  do  gesto  a 
tempo,  ainda  nao  e nessa  ocasiao  que  se  ve  livre  do  filho  de  uma  vez  por  todas. 
Mais  adiante,  no  capitulo  145,  “O  regresso,”  Ezequiel,  ja  adulto,  retorna  da 
Europa,  onde  tinha  vivido  ate  a morte  de  Capitu.  Apos  seis  meses  na  casa 
do  pai,  o rapaz  Ihe  fala  de  uma  “viagem  cientifica”  que  tencionava  fazer  com 
dois  amigos  a Grecia,  ao  Egito  e a Palestina.  Santiago  decide  financiar  o peri- 
plo  arqueologico  do  filho,  com  a esperan^a  secreta  de  que  ele  contraia  lepra, 
doen^a  que  nao  so  tinha  desfigurado  o rosto  de  Manduca,  como  tinha  matado 
o rapaz.  Assim  desejando  ou  apagar  da  cara  de  Ezequiel  as  fei^oes  semelhantes 
as  de  Escobar  ou  dar  cabo  da  suposta  prova  viva  do  adulterio  de  Capitu  com  o 
melhor  amigo,  Santiago  reconhece  intimamente  o proprio  rancor: 

Prometi-lhe  recursos,  e dei-lhe  logo  os primeiros  dinheiros precisos.  Comigo  disse  que 
uma  das  conseqiiencias  dos  amores  furtivos  do  pai  era  pagar  eu  as  arqueologias 
do  filho;  antes  Ihe pagasse  a lepra...  Quando  esta  ideia  me  atravessou  o cerehro,  senti- 
-me  tdo  cruel  e perverso  que  peguei  no  rapaz,  e quis  apertd-lo  ao  coragdo,  mas  recuei; 
encarei-o  depois,  como  se  faz  a um  filho  de  verdade,  os  olhos  que  ele  me  deitou  foram 
ternos  e agradecidos.  (257) 

No  capitulo  seguinte,  “Nao  houve  lepra,”  quando  o desejo  de  ver  Ezequiel 
morto  se  realiza  por  meio  de  outra  molestia,  Dom  Casmurro  mostra  a tenaci- 
dade  de  seu  ressentimento  (admitir  que  o ciume  talvez  tivesse  sido  infundado 
significaria,  se  nao  odiar  a si  mesmo,  ao  menos  recriminar-se  severamente  e 
arrepender-se): 

Nao  houve  lepra,  mas  ha  febres  por  todas  essas  terras  humanas,  sejam  velhas  ou 
novas.  Onzx  meses  depois,  Ezequiel  morreu  de  uma  febre  tifoide,  e foi  enterrado 
nas  imedia^oes  de  Jerusalem,  onde  os  dois  amigos  da  universidade  Ihe  levantaram 
um  tiimulo  com  esta  inscri<;ao,  tirada  do  profeta  Ezequiel,  em  grego:  ‘Tu  eras 
perfeito  nos  teus  caminhos.’  Mandaram-me  ambos  os  textos,  grego  e latino,  o 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  167 

desenho  da  sepultura,  a conta  das  despesas  e o resto  do  dinheiro  que  ele  levava\  paga- 

ria  0 triplo  para  nao  tornar  a ve-lo.  (257-58) 

Convem  recordar  que  Santiago  ja  tinha  recorrido  ao  dinheiro  para  perder 
Capitu  e Ezequiel  de  vista,  exclui-los  de  seu  conviVio,  bancando  os  estudos  do 
menino  e a permanencia  de  ambos  na  Europa  por  tempo  indefinido,  numa 
especie  de  morte  simbolica. 

Outro  ponto  importante  com  rela^ao  ao  simbolismo  do  dinheiro  nao  ape- 
nas  em  Dom  Casmurro,  mas  tambem  em  outros  romances  e contos  da  matu- 
ridade  do  autor,  e a freqiiente  associa^ao  entre  riqueza  material  e esterilidade, 
entre  prosperidade  e aniquila^ao  da  vida,  entre  dinheiro  e ausencia  de  filhos, 
de  confian9a,  de  felicidade,  no  que  diz  respeito  aos  protagonistas  desses  textos. 

No  capi'tulo  95  de  Memorias postumas,  Bras  morre  sem  deixar  filhos,  como  ele 
mesmo  faz  questao  de  frisar  na  celebre  negativa  que  encerra  o livro.  A unica 
possibilidade  de  vir  a ser  pai — se  e que  o amante  Bras,  e nao  o marido  de 
Virgilia,  era  mesmo  responsavel  por  sua  gravidez — , logo  se  desfez,  pois  a mae 
perdeu  o bebe  “apos  algumas  semanas  de  gesta9ao”  (Assis  238).  Ironicamente, 
se  esse  filho  nascesse  nao  teria  o sobrenome  Cubas  nem  herdaria  sua  fortuna. 

Em  Quincas  Borba  (1891),  capitulo  14,  Rubiao  herda  todo  o patrimonio  do 
criador  do  humanitismo  que,  nao  tendo  filhos  e nao  podendo  deixar  esses 
bens  para  seu  cao  homonimo,  lega-os  a seu  dedicado  enfermeiro,  desde  que 
cuidasse  do  animal  como  se  fosse  o proprio  dono  ja  falecido.  Alem  da  heran9a 
material,  Rubiao  de  certa  forma  herda  tambem  o destino  de  Quincas  Borba, 
morrendo  louco  e sem  filhos.  Em  Esau  e ]acd,  Pedro  e Paulo,  filhos  gemeos 
de  um  rico  capitalista  e diretor  de  banco, apaixonam-se  pela  mesma  mo9a. 

Flora,  que  adoece  com  uma  febre  e morre.  Sem  esquecer  outro  novo-rico, 

Nobrega,  que  chega  a pedi-la  em  casamento  pouco  antes  da  doen9a  fatal.  No 
pemiltimo  capitulo  do  romance,  os  gemeos,  que  passaram  a vida  brigando 
um  com  o outro,  perdem  a mae,  vitimada  pelo  tifo.  No  Memorial  de  Aires,  o 
abastado  gerente  de  banco  Aguiar e a esposa  nao  conseguem  ter  descenden- 
tes,  e essa  “orfandade  as  avessas,”  como  diz  o conselheiro,  so  encontra  “um 
paliativo”  em  dois  filhos  nao  “de  verdade,  mas  so  de  afei9ao,”  Tristao  e Fidelia. 

O pai  da  mo9a,  um  barao  do  cafe,  rompe  com  a filha  quando  esta  desposa 
o filho  de  seu  inimigo  e continua  recusando-se  a ve-la  ate  mesmo  depois  de 
saber  que  ficou  viuva.  A reconcilia9ao  entre  Fiddia  e o velho  barao  de  Santa- 
-Pia  so  se  faz  quando  ele  sofre  uma  “congestao  cerebral”  que  termina  por 
leva-lo  a morte.  No  conto  de  Historias  sem  (1884),  “Anedota  pecuniaria,” 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


168 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


o avarento  milionario  Falcao  nao  so  nao  se  casa  e nao  tern  filhos,  mas  ainda 
“vende”  as  duas  sobrinhas  que  sucessivamente  toma  como  filhas  adotivas.  No 
conto  de  Vdrias  histdrias,  “Entre  santos,”  ja  discutido  aqui,  o rico  muquirana 
Sales  e casado,  sua  familia,  porem,  resume-se  a esposa  agonizante. 

Em  Dom  Casmurro,  a associa^ao  mencionada  ja  se  verifica  no  caso  dos 
pais  do  protagonista.  Como  assinalou  Paul  Dixon,  enquanto  a fortuna  dos 
futuros  pais  de  Bentinho  aumentava,  sua  felicidade  era  abalada  pela  falta  de 
filhos  (117).  Para  que  o segundo  bebe  nao  nascesse  morto  como  o primeiro, 
Dona  Gloria  prometeu  tornar  esse  filho  padre  se  ele  fosse  homem,  o que  equi- 
vale  a uma  castra^ao.  Embora  tivesse  permitido  cancelar  o futuro  eclesial  de 
Bentinho,  pagando  as  despesas  de  um  orfao  pobre  que  entraria  no  seminario 
e se  ordenaria  padre  no  lugar  dele,  o dinheiro  nao  garantiria  a perpetua^ao  do 
nome  da  familia.  Por  acreditar  que  tinha  encontrado  substituto  tanto  na  car- 
reira  eclesiastica  quanto  na  conjugal.  Bento  Santiago  desejou  matar,  ora  lite- 
ral, ora  simbolicamente,  aquele  filho  que,  biologico  ou  nao,  tinha  sido  criado 
por  ele  ate  entao  e tinha  recebido  seu  sobrenome.  E assim,  Dom  Casmurro, 
herdeiro  rico  e advogado  de  sucesso,  renunciou  a uma  paternidade  antes  tao 
ansiada  e que  demorou  a vir.  Recordemos  estes  dois  trechos  do  inicio  e do  fim 
do  capitulo  104,  “As  piramides”: 

Ao  fim  de  dois  anos  de  casado,  salvo  o desgosto  grande  de  nao  ter  um  filho,  tudo 
corria  bem  [...]. 

Como  eu  um  dia  dissesse  a Escobar  que  lastimava  nao  ter  um  filho,  replicou-me: 

— Homem,  deixa  la.  Deus  os  dara  quando  quiser,  e se  nao  der  nenhum  e que 
os  quer  para  si,  e melhor  sera  que  fiquem  no  ceu. 

— Uma  crian(;a,  um  filho  e o complemento  natural  da  vida. 

— Vira,  se  for  necessario. 

Nao  vinha.  Capitu  pedia-o  em  suas  ora^oes,  eu  mais  de  uma  vez  dava  por 
mim  a rezar  e a pedi-lo.  Ja  nao  era  como  em  crianga;  agora  pagava  antecipadamente, 
como  os  alugueis  da  casa.  {Dom  Casmurro  208-9;  italicos  nossos) 

A respeito  dessa  passagem  final  do  capitulo,  cito  a valiosa  observa^ao  de  Paul 
Dixon,  segundo  a qual:  “[...]  antes  de  Bentinho  sair  do  seminario  e se  casar  com 
Capitu,  os  protagonistas  sao  retratados  como  devedores  que  tentam  pagar  uma 
imensa  divida,”’^  contrai'da  por  Dona  Gloria  antes  mesmo  de  o filho  nascer. 
“Depois  do  casamento,”  prossegue  Dixon,  “essa  diVida  parece  ter  sido  paga,  e 
os  protagonistas  passam  a posi^ao  oposta  de  poupadores  que  pagam  adiantado 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  169 

em  suas  transa^oes  espirituais.”^^  E o mesmo  cntico  acrescenta:  “Antes  do  casa- 
mento,  ele  esta,  figurativamente  falando,  endividado.  No  entanto,  o dinheiro 
simboliza  sua  esperan^a  de  felicidade.  Depois  do  casamento,  suas  diVidas  estao 
pagas,  mas  o dinheiro  de  que  ele  agora  dispoe  come9a  a hear  associado  a amar- 
gura  e a angustia.”^^  Essa  mescla  recorrente  de  assuntos  espirituais  a conceitos 
ou  fatos  do  universo  economico,  mescla  que  antes  permitiu  a Bentinho  conver- 
ter ora^oes  em  moeda,  agora  permite  ao  protagonista  ja  casado  ver  o ato  de  rezar 
pedindo  um  filho  como  pagamento  antecipado.  A compara9ao  com  o paga- 
mento  dos  “alugueis  da  casa”  nao  deixa  de  ser  sugestiva,  se  pensarmos  que  esse 
pagamento,  ainda  que  antecipado,  nao  torna  a casa  propriedade  do  inquilino, 
assim  como  as  repetidas  ora9oes  feitas  por  Bento  antes  de  Capitu  engravidar  nao 
tornam  Ezequiel  filho  dele,  ao  menos  a sens  olhos. 


Notas 

’ Veja-se  a “teoria  do  benefkio”  proposta  por  Quincas  Borba  no  capitulo  149  de  Memorias 
postumas  de  Bras  Cubas. 

^ Juridicamente,  “sociedade”  designa  o “contrato  consensual  pelo  qual  duas  ou  mais  pessoas 
se  obrigam  a reunir  esfor^os  ou  recursos  para  a consecu^ao  dum  fim  comum”  {Aurelio).  “Socie- 
dade civil”  e toda  “associa(;ao  nao  estabelecida  por  leis  comerciais,  logo  sem  visar  lucro,  regida 
pelo  Codigo  Civil”  {Houaiss),  ou  toda  “associagao  que  nao  tern  por  objeto  atos  de  comercio” 
{Aurdio).  “Sociedade  comercial”  e um  “contrato  em  que  duas  ou  mais  pessoas  estipulam  por  em 
comum  os  seus  bens,  total  ou  parcialmente,  ou,  ainda,  a sua  industria,  para  praticar  habitual- 
mente  atos  de  comercio  e dividir  os  lucros  e perdas  que  houver”  {Aurelio). 

^ Em  La  Princesse  de  Cleves,  de  Mne  de  Lafayette  le-se:  “[...]  o amor  estava  sempre  mistu- 
rado  aos  negocios;  e os  negocios,  ao  amor”  (56;  traduq:ao  minha).  Coincidentemente,  o termo 
“comercio”  e empregado  nesse  romance  da  autora,  inumeras  vezes,  no  sentido  figurado  de  rela- 
9oes  interpessoais  ou  relacionamento,  sem  carater  pejorativo. 

^ No  capitulo  12,  “Na  varanda,”  lemos:  “Capitu  chamava-me  as  vezes  bonito,  mocetao, 
uma  flor”  {Dom  Casmurro  82).  No  capitulo  35,  “O  protonotario  apostolico,”  afirma  Dona  Glo- 
ria acerca  de  Bentinho:  “ — Ha  de  ser  padre,  e padre  bonito”  (120).  No  capitulo  97,  “A  saida,” 
diz  o narrador,  cheio  de  si:  “[...]  sentia  ja,  debaixo  do  recolhimento  casto,  uns  assomos  de  petu- 
lancia  e de  atrevimento;  eram  do  sangue,  mas  eram  tambem  das  mo^as  que  na  rua  ou  da  janela 
nao  me  deixavam  viver  sossegado.  Achavam-me  Undo,  e diziam-no;  algumas  queriam  mirar  de 
mais  perto  a minha  beleza,  e a vaidade  e um  principio  de  corrup(;ao”  (201). 

^ Eis  o comentario  de  Jose  Dias  a respeito  do  desafeto:  “ — [...]  em  segredinhos,  sempre 
juntos.  Bentinho  quase  que  nao  sai  de  la.  A pequena  e uma  desmiolada;  o pai  faz  que  nao  ve; 
tomara  ele  que  as  cousas  corressem  de  maneira,  que...  [...]  [A]  senhora  nao  ere  em  tais  calculos, 
parece-lhe  que  todos  tern  a alma  Candida...”  {Dom  Casmurro  70). 

^ Segundo  o narrador-protagonista,  a vida  so  teria  de  fato  principiado  para  ele  com  a denun- 
cia  de  Jose  Dias,  com  essa  “revela^ao  da  consciencia  a si  propria”  {Dom  Casmurro  83),  revela^ao 
na  qual  o adolescente  se  descobre  apaixonado.  E Jose  Dias  so  pode  denunciar^emyrAvo  a familia 
e a si  mesmo  porque  a mae  do  rapazinho  de  1 5 anos  prometera  faze-lo  padre  caso  vingasse,  ao 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


170 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


contrario  do  primeiro  filho,  nascido  morto.  Portanto,  a “opera”  Dom  Casmurro — ver  “A  opera” 
(78)  e “Aceito  a teoria”  (80) — nao  come^a  pelo  duo  Bentinho-Capitu,  nem  pelo  trio  Dona 
Gloria-Bentinho-Capitu,  em  que  o contralto  e o soprano  lutam  pelo  tenor,  mas  ja  se  inicia 
pelo  quarteto  Jose  Dias-Dona  Gloria-Bentinho-Capitu,  em  que  o agregado  se  associa  a mae  de 
Bentinho,  cuja  di'vida  com  Deus  e cuja  autoridade  manipula  em  beneficio  proprio  e tambem 
contra  sen  rival  Padua,  ou  seja,  contra  a alian^a  entre  a “filha  do  Tartaruga  (70)  e o filho  da 
viuva  Santiago.  Acerca  da  disputa  entre  Capitu  e a mae  de  Bentinho,  ver:  (91-92,  94);  (97-98); 
(28);  (33).  Cito  apenas  um  paragrafo  desse  ultimo  capitulo:  “ — Se  voce  tivesse  que  escolher 
entre  mim  e sua  mae,  a quern  voce  escolhia?”  (133).  Sobre  a rivalidade  entre  Jose  Dias  e Padua, 
ver:  (70);  (87);  (90);  (4l). 

^ Remeto  aqui  ao  indispensavel  ensaio  de  Roberto  Schwarz,  “A  poesia  envenenada  de  Dom 
Casmurro"  no  qual  destaco,  em  particular,  sua  analise  comparativa  dos  comportamentos  de 
Jose  Dias  e Capitu,  sua  descriq:ao  da  conduta  de  Bento  Santiago,  pouco  propenso  a rela^ao  entre 
iguais,  bem  como  a discussao  minuciosa  de  passagens  deste  (24-27)  e de  outros  capitulos. 

® Varias  das  passagens  aqui  discutidas  sao  tambem  analisadas  por  esse  autor.  Julgo  desne- 
cessario  assinalar  os  pontos  de  contato  e as  diferen^as  ou  complementaridades  entre  nossos 
estudos,  atendo-me  as  observances  desse  autor  que  me  pare^a  conveniente  sublinhar.  O mesmo 
vale  para  a analise  realizada  por  Therezinha  Mucci  Xavier,  no  livro  Verso  e reverso  do  favor  no 
romance  de  Machado  deAssis,  cujo  capitulo  “Favores  espirituais:  suporte  de  Dom  Casmurro'  cito 
mais  adiante. 

^ Sobre  a inven^ao  desse  significado,  que  o narrador  indevidamente  atribui  ao  vulgo,  escre- 
veram  Helen  Caldwell  e Marta  de  Senna.  A autora  americana  pergunta:  “Mas  o que  acontece 
se  consultarmos  dicionarios?  A defininao  que  ele  nao  deseja  que  vejamos  e esta:  ‘aquele  que  e 
teimoso,  implicante,  cabegudo.'  Talvez  porque  pudessemos  achar  que  a defininao  padrao  antiga 
se  aplica  melhor  a Santiago  do  que  aquela  que  ele  fornece.”  Em  nota,  Caldwell  acrescenta:  “Em 
anos  mais  recentes,  os  dicionarios  de  portugues  ampliaram  a defininao  de  ‘casmurro’  de  modo 
a incluir  o significado  especial  dado  por  Santiago”  (O  Otelo  brasileiro  de  Machado  de  Assis:  um 
estudo  de  Dom  Casmurro  20,  21).  “Na  primeira  edi^ao  do  dicionario  Caldas  Aulete,  de  1884, 
possivelmente  o que  Machado  teria  em  casa  (apesar  de  nao  constar  do  inventario  de  Jean-Michel 
Massa),”  so  ha  a primeira  acep^ao,  observa  Marta  de  Senna,  para  em  seguida  comentar  numa 
nota:  “E  curioso  como  Machado  e Sterne  se  comprazem  nessa  especie  de  brincadeira  lexicogra- 
fica.”  C Dom  Casmurro-.  a loucura  obliqua  e dissimulada”  95).  No  decimo  capitulo  de  seu  livro, 
Caldwell  lembra  que  Machado  consultava  o Caldas  Aulete,  segundo  atesta,  por  exemplo,  sua 
cronica  de  “A  Semana,”  publicada  na  Gazeta  de  Noticias,  em  25  de  Novembro  de  1894,  na  qual 
cita  esse  dicionario. 

No  primeiro  capitulo  do  livro,  ja  se  enuncia  tal  hipotese  interpretativa:  “O  titulo  desse 
capitulo  e ‘Uma  ponta  de  lago’;  desse  ponto  em  diante,  o Otelo-Santiago  toma  para  si  tambem  o 
papel  de  lago,  manipulando  sens  proprios  len^os  para  ati^ar  o furor  de  seu  proprio  ciume.”  Vale 
recordar  ainda  o fim  de  um  paragrafo  crucial  do  segundo  capitulo,  intitulado  justamente  “O 
len^o  de  Desdemona,”  por  desdobrar  a hipotese  mencionada:  “Na  pega  de  Shakespeare,  o amor 
de  Otelo  e atacado  de  fora  pela  inveja,  o odio  e o dolo  de  lago.  Em  Dom  Casmurro,  a disputa 
tern  lugar  dentro  do  mesmo  homem”  (Caldwell,  O Otelo  25,  4l). 

' * Veja-se  O Otelo  brasileiro  de  Machado  de  Assis:  um  estudo  de  Dom  Casmurro,  de  Helen 
Caldwell  (36-38).  A assimilanao  do  narrador-protagonista  a lago  tern  conseqtiencias  para  sua 
caracterizanao  no  aspecto  pecuniario,  como  veremos  na  leitura  de  Caldwell. 

Veja-se  “Favores  espirituais:  suporte  de  Dom  Casmurro,"  de  Therezinha  Mucci  Xavier 
(72).  No  capitulo  80  do  romance,  o narrador  recorda  ao  leitor:  “[...]  a minha  carreira  eclesiastica 
era  objeto  de  promessa  feita  quando  fui  concebido.”  Alem  disso,  atribui  retrospectivamente  a 
Dona  Gloria  um  hipotetico  questionamento  a respeito  do  favor  divino  (sempre  em  conformi- 
dade  com  seu  interesse,  claro),  questionamento  que  termina  narrando  nao  como  suposi^ao  dele 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


171 


sobre  o que  iria  pela  cabe^a  da  mae  na  epoca,  mas  como  fato:  “Por  que  e que  Deus  a puniria 
negando-lhe  um  segundo  filho?  A vontade  divina  podia  ser  a minha  vida,  sem  necessidade  de  lha 
dedicar  ab  ovo.  Era  um  raciocinio  tardio;  devia  tersido  feito  no  dia  em  que  fui  gerado”  (178-79). 

A aurora  anota  exemplos  romanescos  desse  tra^o  estilfstico  recorrente  em  Machado — as 
“metaforas  concretizadoras  que  apalpam  a experiencia  do  cotidiano,”  como  estes  dois  de  Dom 
Casmurro,  entre  outros:  “desde  que  nao  mete  a alma  no  purgatorio”  (223);  “Jose  Dias  desfechou- 
( -3lhe  dous  superlativos”  (193).  Veja-se  Metdfora,  o espelho  de  Machado  de  Assis,  de  Dirce  Riedel 
Cortes  (74-75). 

“No  romance  de  Machado,  o dinheiro  entra  em  jogo  tanto  literal  quanto  figurativamente. 
Em  ambos  os  casos,  seu  simbolismo  esta  carregado  de  emo^ao:  ele  se  torna  questao  de  vida  ou 
morte”  (Dixon  116;  traduq:ao  minha). 

“Paga  sua  dfvida  espiritual  com  dinheiro  vivo”  (Dixon  118;  traduq:ao  minha). 

Sobre  a situaq:ao  financeira  privilegiada  dos  filhos  de  Natividade  e Agostinho  Santos, 
ver  Esau  e ]ac6\  “Que  eles  eram  ja  doutores,  posto  nao  houvessem  ainda  encetado  a carreira  de 
advogado  nem  de  medico.  Viviam  do  amor  da  mae  e da  bolsa  do  pai,  inesgotaveis  ambos”  (211). 

Sobre  o cabedal  de  Aguiar  ver  Memorial  de  Aires-.  “Nao  falei  das  a^oes  do  Banco  do  Sul, 
nem  das  apolices,  nem  das  casas  que  o Aguiar  possui,  alem  dos  honorarios  de  gerente;  tera  uns 
duzentos  e poucos  contos”  (85). 

Tradu^ao  minha.  No  original,  le-se:  “Before  departure  from  the  seminary  and  before 
Bentinho’s  and  Capitu’s  marriage,  the  protagonists  are  portrayed  as  debtors,  trying  to  pay  off  a 
formidable  obligation”  (Dixon  120). 

Tradu^ao  minha.  No  original,  le-se:  “After  the  marriage,  the  debt  appears  to  have  been 
satisfied  in  full  and  the  protagonists  are  in  the  contrary  position  of  being  savers  and  paying  cash 
in  advance  for  their  spiritual  transactions”  (Dixon  120). 

Tradu^ao  minha.  No  original  le-se:  “Before  his  marriage  he  is,  figuratively  speaking,  in 
hock.  Yet  Money  symbolizes  his  hopes  for  happiness.  After  marriage,  his  debts  are  paid  but  the 
money  He  now  possesses  begins  to  acquire  the  associations  of  bitterness  and  anxiety”  (Dixon  120). 


Obras  Citadas 

Assis,  Joaquim  Maria  Machado  de.  “A  igreja  do  diabo.”  Historias  sem  data.  Rio  de  Janeiro: 
Civiliza<;ao  Brasileira,  1975.  57-65.  Impresso. 

. “Anedota  pecuniaria.”  Historias  sem  data.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza(;ao  Brasileira,  1975. 

146-55.  Impresso. 

. Dom  Casmurro.  2®  ed.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza^ao  Brasileira,  1977.  Impresso. 

. “Entre  Santos.”  Vdrias  historias.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza^ao  Brasileira,  1975.  67-74. 

Impresso. 

. Memorial  de  Aires.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza^ao  brasileira,  1975.  Impresso. 

. Memorias  postumas  de  Brds  Cubas.  2®  ed.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza^ao  Brasileira,  1977. 

Impresso. 

. Quincas  Borba.  2®  ed.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza^ao  Brasileira,  1975. Impresso. 

. Obra  completa.  Vol.  1.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Aguilar,  1959.  Impresso. 

Caldwell,  Helen.  O Otelo  brasileiro  de  Machado  de  Assis:  um  estudo  de  Dom  Casmurro.  Trad. 
Fabio  Fonseca  de  Melo.  Sao  Paulo:  Atelie  Editorial,  2002.  Impresso. 

. The  Brazilian  Othello  of  Machado  de  Assis:  A Study  ofDom  Casmurro.  Berkeley  and  Los 

Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1960.  Impresso. 


BLUMA  WADDINGTON  VILAR 


172 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


“Contrato.”  Def.  Diciondrio  AurHio  eletrdnico,  seculo  XXI.  Versao  3.0.  1999.  Web. 

. Def.  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

Dixon,  Paul.  Retired  Dreams:  Dom  Casmurro,  Myth  and  Modernity.  West  Lafayette,  Indiana: 
Purdue  University  Press,  1989.  Impresso. 

“Escriturar.”  Def  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

Guimaraes,  Helio  de  Seixas.  ''''Dom  Casmurro  e o leitor  lacunar.”  Os  leitores  de  Machado  deAssis: 
0 romance  machadiano  e o publico  de  literatura  no  seculo  XIX  Sao  Paulo:  Nankin  Editorial, 
2004.  215-38.  Impresso. 

Lafayette,  Mme  de.  La  Princesse  de  Cleves.  Paris:  Larousse,  1995.  Impresso. 

“Moeda  fiduciaria.”  Def  Diciondrio  Aurelio  eletrdnico,  seculo  XXL.  Versao  3.0.  1999.  Web. 

. Def  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

“Peitar.  ” Def  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

“Promessa.”  Def  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

Riedel,  Dirce  Cortes.  “Lucros  e perdas.”  Metdfora,  o espelho  de  Machado  de  Assis.  2®  ed.  Sao 
Paulo:  Erancisco  Alves,  1979.  73-79.  Impresso. 

Santos,  Wellington  de  Almeida.  "Dom  Casmurro  e os  farrapos  de  textos.”  Machado  deAssis,  uma 
revisdo.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  In-F6lio,  1998.  s.d.  Impresso. 

Schwarz,  Roberto.  “A  poesia  envenenada  de  Dom  Casmurro."  Duas  Meninas.  Sao  Paulo: 
Companhia  das  Letras,  1997.  7-41.  Impresso. 

Senna,  Marta  de.  "Dom  Casmurro:  a loucura  obh'qua  e dissimulada.”  O olhar  obliquo  do  bruxo: 
ensaios  em  torno  de  Machado  de  Assis.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Nova  Fronteira,  1998.  s.d.  Impresso. 

Shakespeare,  William.  Otelo.  Trad.  Onestaldo  de  Pennafort.  3“  ed.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza^ao 
Brasileira,  1968.  Impresso. 

“Sociedade.”  Def  Diciondrio  Aurelio  eletrdnico,  seculo  XXI.  Versao  3.0.  1999.  Web. 

. Def  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

“Sorte.”  Def  Diciondrio  Aurelio  eletrdnico,  seculo  XXI.  Versao  3.0.  1999.  Web. 

. Def  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

“Vadio.”  Def  Diciondrio  Aurelio  eletrdnico,  seculo  XXI.  Versao  3.0.  1999.  Web. 

. Def  Diciondrio  eletrdnico  Houaiss  da  lingua  portuguesa.  Versao  1.0.  2001.  Web. 

Xavier,  Therezinha  Mucci.  “Favores  espirituais:  suporte  de  Dom  Casmurro!  Verso  e reverso  do 
favor  no  romance  de  Machado  de  Assis.  Vi^osa:  Imprensa  Universitaria  da  Universidade 
Federal  de  Vi^osa,  1994.  71-79.  Impresso. 


Bluma  Waddington  Vilar  is  a translator  and  a writer.  As  a postdoctoral  fellow  at  Funda^ao 
Casa  de  Rui  Barbosa  / CNPq,  she  has  worked  on  a research  project  about  money,  ethics, 
and  figurative  language  in  the  last  five  novels  of  Machado  de  Assis.  She  has  articles  on  the 
work  of  Machado  published  in  journals  such  as  Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  and 
Machado  de  Assis  em  linha:  revista  eletrdnica  de  estudos  machadianos.  She  is  also  the  author 
of  a book  for  children,  Ideias  de  um  menino  cismado  (2004).  Email:  bwv@terra.com.br 


Religion  and  the  Everyday  Life  of  Money  in  Brazil 


Roger  Sansi 


Abstract.  A long  tradition  of  social  scientists  has  defended  that  in  Brazil, 
money  and  social  relations  are  in  contradiction,  partially  as  a result  of 
Catholicism.  This  article  shows  how,  on  the  contrary,  money  has  always 
been  present  in  Brazilian  popular  religion.  This  argument  leads  to  a second 
point:  Brazilian  Neo-Pentecostal  churches  have  been  openly  criticized  for 
their  ritual  use  of  money.  Social  scientists  have  interpreted  these  practices 
as  a foreign  “money  fetishism,”  and  these  churches  are  often  described 
as  agents  of  Neo-Liberalism.  I argue  that  Neo-Pentecostals  in  Brazil 
appropriate  money  not  just  for  economic  ends  but  also  with  the  political 
project  of  Christianizing  the  country.  In  more  general  terms,  the  article 
introduces  a different  perspective  both  from  the  classical  discourse  on 
money  as  an  agent  of  globalization  and  modernity  on  the  one  hand,  and 
a more  recent  literature  on  the  personalization  of  money  and  alternative 
currencies,  on  the  other.  In  both  of  the  discourses  on  modernity  and 
personalization,  nation-states  are  increasingly  marginal.  But  the  nation  is 
still  very  much  at  the  center  of  the  Brazilian  Neo-Pentecostal  project. 


One  day  I was  on  the  bus  in  Bahia,  paying  my  ticket  to  the  cobrador,  the 
ticket  collector.  I gave  him  the  exact  change,  to  hurry  up.  He  gave  me  back  a 
piece  of  paper  that  looked  like  a check.  The  “check”  belonged  to  the  “Salva- 
tion Bank.”  The  amount  was  “your  life,”  “A  personal  and  non-transferable 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  173-197. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


174 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


salvation,”  assigned  to  the  “sinner  who  woLild  ask  forgiveness.”  I could  cash  it 
in  the  “evangelical  church  closer  to  home.” 


Fig.  1.  Cheque  Ouro,  Banco  da  Salvagao. 


This  was  not  the  first  time  somebody  in  the  street  gave  me  one  of  these 
checks.  But  in  the  hands  of  the  bus  collector,  what  before  was  just  a simple  act 
of  propaganda  had  become  a sophisticated  conceptual  game.  The  everyday 
ritual  of  looking  for  change  in  the  bus  had  become  a reflection  on  the  value 
of  money  and  its  relation  to  the  sacred. 

But  I do  not  want  to  suggest  that  this  conceptual  game  implies  a particu- 
larly exotic  or  strange  form  of  giving  value  to  money,  that  there  are  radically 
different  traditions  or  ways  of  giving  value  to  money  in  Brazil  and  Europe  or 
the  US,  different  money  “cultures.”  In  fact,  this  has  been  held  by  many  social 
scientists,  including  Oliven,  for  whom,  as  opposed  to  Americans,  Brazilians 
have  a “strong  resistance  to  face  money  as  a central  value”  (27).  Brazil  would 
have  a “personalist”  culture,  where  personal  relations  and  status  are  more 
important  than  money.'  One  of  the  central  components  of  this  “personalism” 
would  be  the  religious  hegemony  of  Catholicism,  as  opposed  to  the  “Protes- 
tant Ethics”  of  capitalism  (Oliven  25—26). 

One  of  the  objectives  of  this  article  is  to  show  that,  on  the  contrary,  money 
has  always  had  a “central  value”  in  everyday  religion  in  Brazil.  Arguing  that 
Brazilians  despise  money  because  of  their  Catholicism  and  “personalism”  can 
result  in  a certain  bias  in  the  interpretation  of  everyday  religious  practices. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


175 


This  is  especially  evident  in  relation  to  the  emergence  of  Neo-Pentecostal 
Christianity  in  Brazil  in  the  last  decades.  The  ritual  use  of  money  and  the 
“Gospel  of  Prosperity”  in  these  churches  has  been  the  object  of  enormous 
scholarly  concern,  partially  because  it  questions  these  models  of  Brazilian 
“personalism”  and  its  Catholic  backbone  (Prandi  and  Pierucci).  The  emer- 
gence of  these  churches,  especially  the  Church  of  the  Kingdom  of  God  (Igreja 
Universal  do  Reino  de  Deus,  lURD),  is  commonly  described  as  the  result 
of  global  capitalism  and  neo-liberalism  (see  Campos;  Guareschi;  Jardilino; 
Mariano;  Oro;  Kramer;  Comaroff  and  Comaroff).  The  lURD  in  particu- 
lar has  not  only  been  incredibly  successful  in  Brazil  but  has  had  an  enor- 
mous success  in  Africa,  Portugal,  and  among  African  lusophone  migrants  in 
Europe.  This  expansive  “globalized”  pattern  gives  more  reasons  to  argue  for 
its  “anti-brazilianness.” 

Not  only  Brazilian  scholars  have  been  interested  in  these  churches;  they  have 
also  become  a central  case  study  for  “global”  anthropologists  like  the  Coma- 
roffs,  who  describe  the  lURD  as  a prime  example  of  “millennial  capitalism,” 
where  “Neo-Pentecostalism  meets  neoliberal  enterprise”  (314).  They  describe 
this  unlikely  mixture  as  a sign  of  the  times,  a precarious  “local”  re-appropriation 
of  a “global”  force,  an  inevitably  doomed  “cargo”  cult.  In  the  context  of  a global 
economy  led  by  “arcane”  and  “frightening”  forces,  ordinary  people  express  their 
“panic”  in  “religious  movements  that  pursue  instant  material  returns”  (Coma- 
roff and  Comaroff  316),  mimicking  the  magic  of  capitalism. 

This  identification  with  “cargo  cults”  underestimates  the  rationalization 
and  strategic  planning  of  these  churches.  These  are  not  just  opportunist, 
ready-made  prophets  that  take  advantage  of  the  despair  of  the  wretched  of 
the  earth.  They  have  become  massive  organizations  with  a faithful  member- 
ship, overcoming  the  “millennium”  quite  successfully.  Their  ends  are  not  just 
“instant  material  returns”;  they  have  long-term  plans.  And  these  plans  are  not 
just  economic,  but  also  political.  Especially  in  Brazil,  the  lURD  has  clear  and 
well-designed  political  goals.  In  spite  of  its  “globalization”  or  “cosmopolitan- 
ism,” the  lURD  is  very  concerned  with  the  nation.  In  fact,  in  many  ways  it 
looks  like  it  wants  to  take  over  the  nation  and  remake  it  in  its  own  image. 

The  centrality  of  money  in  the  religious  practice  of  the  lURD  has  a clear  politi- 
cal and  national  meaning.  This  is  an  important  point  and  it  may  need  a more  gen- 
eral consideration.  Since  Marx,  Weber,  and  Simmel,  money  has  been  described  as 
the  main  agent  of  modernity  as  a process  of  growing  abstraction,  rationalization 
of  social  relations,  and  individualization.  It  is  “a  god  among  commodities,”  “the 


ROGER  SANSI 


176 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Liltimate  objectifier”  (Zelizer  7)  in  commodity  fetishism.  Money  is  the  weapon 
dirough  which  transnational  capitalism  overcomes  local  cultures. 

The  Comarofh’  description  of  “millennial  capitalism”  is  very  much  in  line 
with  this  classical  and  venerable  tradition  of  modernity  theory,  adding  the 
observation  that  this  modernity  can  be  multiple:  Western  commodity  fetish- 
ism spreads  locally  in  different  ways,  resulting  in  a myriad  of  “millenarian” 
movements  that  make  explicit  the  ideologies  that  capitalism  disavows.^  Thus, 
the  “money  fetishism”  of  the  lURD  would  only  be  an  explicit  version  of  the 
disavowed  “commodity  fetishism”  of  capitalism.  But  in  the  last  decades  many 
authors  have  shown  that  the  opposite  can  also  be  true:  money  is  not  just  an 
agent  of  transnational  modernization,  even  if  this  modernization  is  “mul- 
tiple”; it  is  also  used  in  everyday  life  to  make  and  renew  social  and  personal 
relations  (see  Hart,  “Heads”  and  Memory,  Bloch  and  Parry;  Zelizer)  that  can 
be  more  enduring  than  chiliastic  “cargo”  cults.  In  other  terms,  money  is  not 
only  a tool  of  alienation,  but  it  can  be  re-appropriated  to  build  persons  and 
communities:  it  can  also  be  a tool  of  self-creation. 

The  question  of  the  re-appropriation  of  money  has  become  especially  rel- 
evant in  the  last  years  as  a consequence  of  technological  changes  that  have 
produced  new  money  forms  that  can  potentially  become  more  personalized 
and  autonomous,  like  electronic  money  (Hart,  Memory)  or  the  emergence  of 
alternative  currencies  and  exchange  networks  that  have  emerged  in  reaction  to 
globalization  (Maurer).  But  my  point  in  this  article  is  slightly  different.  I am 
not  arguing  that  the  lURD  re-appropriates  money  just  to  build  its  own  com- 
munity. Their  objective  is  more  ambitious.  They  want  to  redefine  the  original 
source  of  money  value.  As  Hart  argued  in  “Heads  or  Tails?,”  money  is  not  just  a 
commodity,  but  also  a token  of  political  authority,  a token  of  the  state.  Putting 
money  at  the  center  of  their  ritual  practice,  evangelical  Christians  are  also  mak- 
ing a political  statement:  They  are  investing  in  a currency,  and  they  are  giving  it 
a superior  form  of  value,  a sacred  value.  In  so  doing,  their  objective  is  not  just 
to  sanctify  their  money,  but  to  sanctify  the  country:  appropriating  money  is  a 
necessary  step  in  the  direction  of  transforming  Brazil  into  a Christian  nation. 

To  summarize,  it  is  not  enough  to  describe  this  phenomenon  as  a “local” 
response  to  a “global”  process.  The  lURD  is  deeply  engaged  in  its  country 
of  birth,  Brazil,  and  it  has  to  be  understood  within  the  cultural,  economic, 
and  political  history  of  Brazil.  In  this  article  I would  like  to  contextualize  the 
question  of  the  relation  between  money  and  religion  in  Brazil  by  considering 
the  larger  social  and  historical  context. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


177 


First,  it  is  necessary  to  say  that  money  has  always  had  a place  in  the  every- 
day religious  life  of  Brazil.  The  uses  of  money  in  contemporary  evangelical 
ritual  are  not  inconsistent  with  the  religious  traditions  of  the  country.  These 
religious  traditions  were  shaped  in  the  context  of  world  trade,  colonialism, 
and  slavery;  Brazilian  society  is  a “cosmopolitan”  society  in  many  ways  since 
its  very  foundation,  a result  of  a process  of  “globalization”  that  we  can  trace 
back  to  its  discovery. 

Nevertheless,  it  is  true  that  Brazil  has  been  through  extraordinary  transfor- 
mations in  the  last  twenty  years.  These  transformations  have  been  particularly 
visible  at  least  in  two  fields:  money  and  religion.  On  the  one  hand,  Brazil 
has  been  through  an  enormous  economic  crisis:  it  has  survived  hyperinfla- 
tion, and  has  changed  currencies  several  times.  It  could  be  argued  that  this 
is  a result  of  contemporary  processes  of  “globalization,”  although  to  be  more 
specific  we  should  talk  about  the  imperialist  policies  imposed  by  the  IMF. 
On  the  other  hand,  Catholicism  is  losing  its  hegemony  in  Brazil,  and  Neo- 
Pentecostalism  is  emerging  as  a powerful  force  in  the  public  sphere.  It  would 
be  too  easy  to  draw  a direct,  causal  link  between  the  two  series  of  events.  But 
it  is  evident  that  Brazilians  have  lived  both  processes  in  their  everyday  lives 
and  that  in  some  ways  one  must  have  informed  the  other,  and  vice  versa. 

Yet  this  mutual  influence  cannot  be  understood  solely  in  religious  or  eco- 
nomical terms;  it  also  has  to  be  described  politically.  The  second  central  point 
of  this  article  is  that  the  centrality  of  money  in  evangelical  churches  in  Brazil 
has  a political  meaning.  The  political  projects  of  these  churches  in  Brazil,  as 
elsewhere,  take  the  national  state  very  seriously.  They  are  not  renouncing  their 
national  identity  to  embrace  globalization;  on  the  contrary.  Their  objective, 
in  the  middle  or  long  term,  is  to  shape  the  nation  to  their  own  image,  to  their 
project  of  a Christian  nation. 

In  the  next  pages,  I will  address  these  questions  starting  with  a description 
of  the  pervasive  presence  of  money  magic  in  Brazil  since  colonial  times.  After 
that,  I will  introduce  the  monetarist  policies  of  the  Brazilian  state  in  the  last 
twenty  years,  and  the  consequences  this  has  had  on  everyday  life.  This  will 
lead  up  to  my  final  discussion  of  the  political  relevance  of  money  in  Neo- 
Pentecostal  ritual  nowadays. 

Money  magic  in  Brazil 

For  the  historian  Laura  de  Mello  e Souza,  “the  divinization  of  the  economic 
world”  and  its  objects  in  colonial  Brazil  is  anything  but  surprising  (1 46). 


ROGER  SANSI 


178 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


After  all,  the  Brazilian  colony  was  based  on  the  exploitation  of  slavery,  the 
economic  objectification  of  people,  and  the  maximization  of  profits  in  trade. 
Before  being  a nation,  Brazil  was  a market,  and  a factory.  Since  the  very 
beginnings  of  the  colonization  of  Brazil,  we  have  accounts  of  enchantments 
and  disenchantments  in  which  money  played  a central  part.  The  Inquisition 
records  describe  rituals  where  coins  were  used  to  “clean”  bodies  of  spiritual 
influences.^  Still  today,  in  the  house  of  the  Afro-Brazilian  religion  Candomble 
in  which  I did  fieldwork  in  Bahia,  coins  are  used  in  body  limpezas  (“cleans- 
ings”) and  then  are  carregados  (“charged”)  with  the  spirits  or  influences  that 
were  harming  the  body.  After  that,  the  coins  have  to  be  despachado  (“dis- 
patched”), sent  away,  to  lose  their  exchange  value.  In  the  axexe,  a funeral 
ritual  of  the  Afro-Brazilian  religion  Candomble,  people  pass  coins  around 
their  heads  and  then  throw  them  in  a pot  {cuid)  in  the  center  of  a closed  room 
where  the  funeral  ritual  is  celebrated.  According  to  Elbein,  with  this  gesture, 
people  give  themselves  to  the  dead  person.'^ 

Coins  can  be  conductors  or  embodiments  of  spiritual  entities,  they  can 
embody  “the  distributed  person”  (Cell  96-154).  Coins  can  absorb,  conduct, 
and  provide  the  spiritual  agency  called  Axe  in  Candomble,  just  like  animals 
in  sacrifice.  When  money  acquires  sacrificial  value,  when  it  is  “sent  away,”  it 
can  no  longer  be  used  as  money.  Taking  it  from  an  offering  would  bring  a 
curse,  like  taking  the  sacrificial  remains  of  an  animal  once  it’s  been  offered  to 
a “saint”:  it  would  be  like  stealing  the  “saint.”  Furthermore,  if  it  is  the  result 
of  a ritual  “cleansing,”  when  an  evil  spirit  has  been  removed  from  someone, 
one  would  risk  absorbing  the  influence  of  this  evil  spirit. 

The  ritual  use  of  coins,  however,  is  not  restricted  to  Candomble  but  is  also 
present  throughout  many  forms  of  popular  religion.  Coins  are  commonly 
found  in  magical  amulets,  not  only  in  Candomble,  but  also  in  popular  Cath- 
olic belief,  such  as  the  patuds  or  amulets  one  can  find  in  the  church  of  the 
miraculous  Nosso  Senhor  de  Bonfim  (Fig.  2).  The  use  of  these  patuds  ohtys 
the  same  logic:  In  the  same  way  that  a coin  can  embody  a dead  spirit,  it  can 
also  protect  you  from  it — it  can  help  you  fechar  o corpo  (“close  your  body”). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


179 


Fig.  2.  Patuas  (annulets)  of  Nosso  Senhor  do  Bonfim.  The  one  to  the  left  makes  refer- 
ence to  the  Orixa  Ogum;  the  cowry  shell  was  once  a currency  in  Africa,  but  the  histori- 
cal memory  of  this  fact  has  been  lost  in  Brazil.  The  one  to  the  right  contains  a Catholic 
prayer  to  Bonfim,  and  one  cent. 


If  money  is  used  in  sacrifice  or  put  in  an  amulet  it  loses  one  of  its  essential 
qualities:  it  is  no  longer  a means  of  exchange.  It  could  be  argued,  on  the  other 
hand,  that  the  magic  of  capitalism  is  specifically  oriented  to  make  money  with 
money,  to  renew  its  circulation,  as  opposed  to  the  “sacrifice”  of  money. 


INCENSO  COMPLETO 

J 

J 
a ” 

A 

DO  f 


Fig.  3.  "The  Money  Fire"  incense  box. 


ROGER  SANSI 


180 


PORTUGUESE  UTERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23;74 


But  money  is  not  used  ritually  just  for  sacrifice:  People  commonly  ask  for 
luck  in  their  financial  life  from  saints^  or  the  Orixas  of  Candomble.  In  the 
shops  of  religious  objects,  we  can  find  incense  that  attracts  money  (Fig.  3). 
The  “magic  of  capitalism”  is  also  present  in  many  forms  in  ever^'day  reli- 
gious practices,  and  it  was  probably  so  well  before  “capitalism”  was  theorized. 
Orixas,  saints,  and  spirits  help  people  find  money.  Helena,  the  Candomble 
priestess  I worked  with,  often  said  that  she  dreamt  of  numbers  to  play  in  the 
lottery",  inspired  by  her  guiding  spirit,  a Caboclo  (Indian) — and  she  would 
win.  There  are  countless  magical  practices  oriented  to  prospering;  for  exam- 
ple, writing  prayers  on  bills  that  then  are  distributed  and  reproduced,  using 
the  ver}^  profane  technique  of  the  “chain  message.”  Some  contain  prayers  to 
Saints  Cosmos  and  Damian  with  messages  like  this:  “’'^Tien  you  get  this  bill 
you  will  have  a lot  of  money  from  Saint  Cosmos  and  Saint  Damian.  Write  on 
6 bills  like  this  and  give  them  out”  (Fig.  4).^ 


Fig.  4.  Bill  with  a prayer  to  Saints  Cosmos  and  Damian. 


Saints  Cosmos  and  Damian  are  nvo  nvin  children.  They  are  syncretized  in 
Candomble  with  the  criancas  or  erh.  childish  spirits,  ver\^  talkative  and  play- 
ful (the  root  of  the  word  ere  comes  from  the  Yoruba  term  for  “play”).  They 
love  parties  and  are  ver\'  generous,  although  sometimes  uncontrollable  and 
wild — like  children. 

The  practice  of  writing  messages  on  bills  is  based  precisely  on  the  prin- 
ciple opposite  to  sacrifice:  They  do  not  transform  money  into  an  image  of  the 


II; 

ECONOMIES  OF  RELTMION  181 

sacred  (sacrifice)  but  transform  an  image  of  the  sacred  into  money  (produc- 
tion). Not  only  are  popular  saints  like  Cosmos  and  Damian  associated  with 
prosperity  and  the  circulation  of  money,  some  Orixas  are  as  well,  for  example, 
f Xango,  who  was  once  a rich  and  generous  king.  Once  I was  in  a Candomble 
house  and  a coin  fell  down  from  my  pocket.  Somebody  said,  laughing,  that  it 
was  “for  Xango”  because  Xango  wants  money  to  circulate,  “to  fall  like  water.” 

On  another  occasion,  I convinced  Helena  to  come  with  me  to  the  market. 

After  she  bought  a load  of  things,  she  said:  “I  didn’t  want  to  come  because 
I have  no  money,  but  obviously  Xango  wanted  me  to  come.”  Money  goes 
because  Xango  wants  it  to,  and  people  don’t  seem  to  have  much  control  over  it. 

Another  spirit  that  is  centrally  associated  to  money  is  Exu,  the  trickster, 
the  master  of  theft  and  magic.  Exu  is  also  an  ambiguous  character;  he  “works” 
and  makes  spells  for  money,  but  he  is  not  very  reliable:  he  can  always  turn 
against  his  employer  and  work  for  somebody  else  who  pays  him  more.  Curi- 
ously enough,  Exu  is  sometimes  called  the  “slave”  because  he  “works  for 
money,”  according  to  Helena,  which  means  that  he  is  not  loyal  but  interested 
only  in  material  gains. ^ 

It  could  be  argued  that  this  money  magic  doesn’t  have  much  to  do  with  the 
supposedly  “Protestant  ethics”  of  capitalism.  Money  magic  is  based  on  luck, 
the  notion  that  the  alliance  with  divine  entities  can  lead  objective  chance  in 
one’s  favor.  These  entities,  however,  are  voluble,  ambiguous,  fluid,  and  fun- 
gible, like  money  itself  This  is  not  the  same  as  the  idea  of  predestination,  that 
enrichment  by  means  of  constant  work  is  a proof  of  God’s  will.  No  sign  of  the 
sanctification  of  work  exists  in  lottery  dreams. 

In  fact,  one  of  the  essential  dogmas  of  Protestant  churches  in  Brazil  is  the 
banning  of  their  members  from  playing  lotteries.  This  may  give  us  a clue  to 
understand  what  is  implied  in  the  message  I found  on  one  of  these  written 
bills:  “Essa  e de  Deus”  (“This  one  belongs  to  God”).  This  was  written  very 
probably  by  a Neo-Pentecostal  Christian.  “This  one  belongs  to  God”  means 
that  there  are  no  tricks,  no  deals,  and  no  chains;  it  makes  a statement  with 
regards  to  others  who  write  to  lesser  entities,  like  saints,  Orixas,  and  other 
idols.  This  is  not  about  having  good  luck.  This  belongs  to  God  exclusively, 
like  the  believer  gives  himself  to  God.  And  God  is  the  measure  of  all  value  for 
him.  It  sets  God  as  its  sole  standard  of  value,  an  unbeatable  one. 

Maybe  that  is  what  makes  the  difference  from  traditional  forms  of  money 
magic  in  popular  religious  practice  and  the  new  Protestant  churches  of  Brazil: 

Money  is  not  just  an  unruly  entity  in  the  hands  of  fortune,  but  it  can  be  a sign 


ROGER  SANSI 


182 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


of  God.  However,  before  going  into  that,  we  should  consider  in  more  general 
terms  the  complicated  history  of-  money  in  Brazil  in  the  last  decades,  and  the 
transformations  in  everyday  life  that  this  may  have  produced.  It  is  important  to 
understand  this  economic  conjuncture  in  order  to  avoid  falling  into  superficial 
references  to  “globalization,”  “neoliberalism,”  and  the  “casino  economy.” 

Disciplinary  monetarism  in  Brazil:  Fighting  the  dragon  of  inflation 

In  Brazil,  the  nation  is  a project,  something  in  the  making;  Brazil  is  the  “country 
of  the  future,”  as  Stefan  Zweig  said  in  1942.  But  in  the  1980s,  the  “lost  decade,” 
this  belief  often  turned  to  deception,  and  many  people  started  saying  that  “este 
pais  nao  vai  dar  certo”  (“this  country  is  not  going  to  turn  out  right”).  Brazil’s 
dramatic  economic  history  for  the  last  twenty  years  seems  to  give  good  argu- 
ments for  its  citizens  to  distrust  the  reliability  of  their  state.  The  central  conun- 
drum of  the  state  in  the  last  twenty  years  has  been  monetary  policy,  building  a 
strong,  reliable  currency,  in  face  of  the  recession  and  the  “dragon  of  inflation” 
that  destroyed  the  country  in  the  eighties,  reaching  1320  percent  in  1989. 

Inflation  has  been  common  in  Brazil  since  the  Empire,  but  never  before 
had  it  reached  this  level.  The  first  oil  crisis  of  the  early  seventies  hardly  affected 
the  Brazilian  economy.^  But  the  abandonment  of  the  gold  standard  and  the 
US  policy  of  fixed  interest  rates  had  a strong  impact:  The  second  crisis  of 
1979  was  accompanied  by  the  rise  in  interest  rates  on  the  Dollar,  in  order  to 
finance  its  own  deficit.  From  a situation  of  excess  liquidity  in  international 
financial  markets,  the  world  economy  went  into  a situation  of  extreme  scar- 
city. The  credits  to  peripheral  countries  like  Brazil  were  denied,  and  the  debts 
accumulated  were  claimed;  it  was  the  beginning  of  the  “crisis  of  the  foreign 
debt,”  and  the  Brazilian  currency,  the  Cruzeiro,  suffered  a devaluation  of  30 
percent.  It  was  at  that  time  that  the  IMF  started  acquiring  the  shape  and 
power  it  has  nowadays,  by  managing  the  “debt.”  Countries  like  Brazil  were 
forced  to  follow  the  economic  policies  of  the  IMF,  which  from  that  time  fol- 
lowed the  set  of  ideological  assumptions  that  many  afterwards  called  “neolib- 
eral.” The  IMF  argued  that  the  crisis  of  the  peripheral  countries  was  due  to 
an  excess  of  demand.  Peripheral  states  should  limit  their  expenses;  they  had  to 
shrink  their  economies,  to  deepen  the  crisis.  The  Brazilian  state  “contained” 
its  expenses  and  as  a result  the  country  went  into  a bigger  crisis  ...  but  inflation 
kept  on  rising  to  unprecedented  levels  (Filgueiras  75).  Inflation  not  only  had 
its  own  dynamics,  not  only  was  it  “alive,”  but  it  was  a monster,  a “dragon,”  as 
the  media  called  it  (Gurgel  and  Vereza). 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


183 


Inflation  stretched  social  inequalities  in  the  country,  dividing  the  popula- 
tion between  those  who  had  a bank  account  and  those  who  didn’t.  Savings 
accounts  were  rewarded  with  high  interest  rates  and  all  accounts  had  monthly 
corrections  indexed  with  inflation.  People  without  bank  accounts  were  stuck 
with  the  value  of  the  cash  they  had  in  hand,  the  “living  money”  as  it  is  called 
in  Brazil,  dinheiro  vivo.  People  with  bank  accounts  used  checks  more  than 
cash,  foreseeing  that  prices  would  rise  before  their  checks  were  cashed.  Shops 
and  businesses  would  make  installments  to  their  accounts  once  or  twice  daily 
to  avoid  having  any  cash  in  hand.  Social  differences  were  not  only  growing 
between  the  people  who  had  money  and  those  who  didn’t,  but  between  those 
who  only  had  cash  and  those  who  had  bank  accounts. 

In  this  situation,  Brazil  elected  a new  government  in  1990:  Fernando  Col- 
i lor  came  to  power  with  a populist  discourse  in  which  he  presented  himself 
as  a young,  handsome  outsider  to  the  traditional  elites  (although  he  was  a 
powerful  landowner  and  political  chief).  After  several  unsuccessful  plans  and 
several  changes  of  currency,  the  Collor  administration  started  to  apply  thor- 
oughly the  draconian  measures  proposed  by  the  Washington  Consensus  to 
stop  inflation.  The  state  started  dismantling  and  selling  public  companies  to 
pay  the  debt.  But  most  important,  the  administration  confiscated  all  financial 
activities  in  the  country,  including  all  savings  accounts,  in  a measure  that 
anticipated  the  corralito  in  Argentina  some  years  later.  The  idea  behind  it 
was  to  reduce  drastically  the  liquidity  of  money — by  reducing  materially  the 
volume  of  money  in  circulation. 

The  imposition  of  a “neoliberal”  policy  in  Brazil  came  through  this 
extremely  authoritarian  measure.  Still  nowadays,  people  remember  the  Collor 
plan  with  horror.  In  fact,  the  Collor  government  didn’t  last  long.  Accusations 
of  corruption  against  the  government  generated  a massive  popular  movement 
for  the  impeachment  of  Collor,  who  was  obliged  to  resign. 

At  the  end  of  the  Collor  administration,  distrust  in  politics  and  the  state 
was  at  its  peak  in  Brazil,  although  the  impeachment  saved  in  a way  the  belief 
that  democracy  in  Brazil  was  still  possible.  But  ultimately,  the  brutality  of  the 
Collor  plan  helped  the  next  government  to  open  a path  to  “neoliberal”  reforms. 
And,  at  least  for  the  time  the  bank  accounts  were  confiscated,  inflation  was 
reduced  radically;  but  then  the  poverty  it  generated  was  also  radical.  Whatever 
the  next  government  did,  it  could  never  be  worse  than  Collor’s  initial  shock. 

The  next  and  last  plan  was  the  Real  Plan,  designed  by  Fernando  Hen- 
rique  Cardoso,  once  an  internationally  famous  sociologist,  leading  scholar  of 


ROGER  SANSI 


184 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


dependency  theory,  and  now  a finance  minister  ready  to  apply  the  Washington 
Consensus.  The  Real  was  “anchored”  to  the  Dollar — which  guaranteed  its  “real” 
value. ^ The  new  currency  was  accompanied  by  other  monetarist  measures — 
imposing  a 5 percent  “provisional”  tax  over  financial  movement  (IPMF)  that 
still  exists  today,  continuing  and  extending  the  privatization  program  of  Collor 
to  pay  the  debt,  and  acquiring  a massive  reserve  of  dollars  for  the  Central  Bank 
(almost  $40  billon),  declared  “autonomous”  from  the  government. 

But  what  changed  radically  in  the  early  nineties  from  the  previous  decade 
was  international  finance.  Partially  due  to  technological  change,  but  also  to 
the  new  resources  that  financial  institutions  had  found  through  promot- 
ing “pension  funds”  and  “popular  capitalism”  amongst  the  middle  classes 
of  wealthy  Western  countries,  as  well  as  their  access  to  the  privatization  of 
public  corporations,  the  nineties  were  destined  to  be  the  decade  of  financial 
“globalization.”  As  opposed  to  the  lack  of  liquidity  of  the  previous  decade, 
international  financial  capital  was  in  a situation  of  excess  liquidity,  in  which 
“emergent”  markets  like  Brazil  became  an  interesting  objective  ...  so  long  as 
the  government  guaranteed  high  interest  rates.  In  this  situation,  international 
finance  decided  to  “bet”  on  the  Real.  In  July  1994,  the  “Real”  currency  was 
finally  issued,  just  before  the  elections,  which  Cardoso  eventually  won. 

The  Real  was  quite  successful  in  keeping  inflation  under  control  for  several 
years,  but  in  exchange  for  maintaining  the  high  interest  rates  that  attracted 
international  financial  capital,  paying  its  debts  to  the  IMF,  and  privatizing  its 
industries.  The  high  price  of  obtaining  credit  arguably  limited  the  produc- 
tive growth  of  the  national  economy  and  its  ability  to  generate  employment. 
The  popular  classes  benefited  initially  from  the  stability  of  the  Real — as  I 
mentioned,  the  worst  victims  of  hyperinflation  were  the  people  without  bank 
accounts.  But  after  the  Russian  crisis  of  August  1998,  the  policy  of  high  inter- 
est rates  was  not  enough.  International  currency  speculation  turned  against 
the  Real,  which  lost  its  parity  with  the  Dollar — in  a month,  it  lost  half  its 
value.  In  the  next  years,  the  rate  would  go  to  3 and  4 Reals  for  1 US  Dollar. 

The  crisis  came  about  right  after  the  second  election  of  Cardoso.  Despite 
the  fact  that  inflation  didn’t  rise  dramatically  as  in  the  previous  decade,  the 
high  levels  of  unemployment,  the  decapitalization  of  the  state,  and  the  con- 
stant high  interest  rates  made  the  Cardoso  administration  immensely  unpop- 
ular, opening  the  path  for  the  final  victory  of  Ignacio  Lula  da  Silva,  of  the  PT 
Labour  Party,  running  on  a nationalist-leftist  discourse  opposing  “neoliberal- 
ism” and  international  financial  capital.  But  nothing  seriously  changed  in  the 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 85 

Lula  administration:  Interest  rates  are  still  extremely  high  in  Brazil  nowadays, 
and  the  government  Is  paying  back  the  debt  to  the  IMF. 

The  central  conundrum  of  the  Brazilian  state  in  the  last  twenty  years  has 
been  monetary  policy,  building  a strong,  reliable  currency.  This  policy  has 
been  labeled  “neoliberal,”  and  it  is  unquestionable  that  at  least  since  the  early 
nineties  neoliberal  ideology  has  been  hegemonic  in  the  administration;  but  it 
has  to  be  clear  that  this  neoliberalism  is  basically  a state  affair.  It  is  not  just  the 
“casino  economy,”  as  some  authors  such  as  the  Comaroffs  seem  to  imply,  but 
involves  the  active  intervention  of  the  state  in  the  economy  through  authori- 
tarian monetary  policies  backing  transnational  capital.  International  finan- 
cial capital  may  take  the  shape  of  a casino,  but  its  stakes  are  guaranteed  by 
states  and  international  organizations  like  the  IMF.  This  alliance  of  state  and 
finance  has  assured  the  stability  of  imperial  currencies  like  the  Dollar  as  uni- 
versal standards  of  value,  and  has  condemned  peripheral  countries  like  Brazil 
to  endemic  dependency  on  international  financial  capital,  and  to  failing  to 
provide  an  autonomous,  stable  currency.  Although  the  “dragon  of  inflation” 
seems  dormant,  other  more  powerful  dragons  have  appeared  in  the  economic 
landscape:  with  their  speculative  attacks,  the  dragons  of  global  finance  keep 
Brazil  captive  and  unable  to  have  agency  over  its  own  economy — its  own  life. 

"Living  money"  in  everyday  life 

Monetarist  policies  have  been  concentrated  in  controlling  the  flux  of  money, 
the  “living  money,”  limiting  its  offer  to  control  its  outrageous  overflows — “the 
dragon  of  inflation.”  But  these  policies  seem  condemned  to  lose  any  sense  in 
a situation  where  the  new  electronic  means  of  multiplying  the  demand  of 
money  rule  over  the  offer  of  money  that  monetarism  tries  to  control.  In  this 
context  of  the  dematerialization  of  money,  personal  credit  and  not  just  mate- 
rial accumulation  seem  to  be  the  measure  of  social  power  in  our  society.  In 
many  ways,  personal  credit  is  nothing  else  than  status  (see  Irrougine,  and 
Hart,  Memory)\  it  is  not  just  about  what  you  have,  but  who  you  are,  what 
determines  your  position.  The  question  is  not  just  having  or  not  having.  It  is 
also  being  or  not  being.  In  other  words,  money  can  be  seen  as  the  objectified 
form  of  our  agency,  our  “distributed  person”  (Gell);  through  money,  people 
can  extend  their  agency  through  space  and  time,  which  can  extend  it  beyond 
their  immediate  presence. 

This  has  always  been  true,  in  a way,’®  but  it  is  becoming  clearer  today  as 
money  is  increasingly  personalized  and  dematerialized,  and  associated  with 


ROGER  SANSI 


186 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


credit.  Blit  what  happens  then,  when  one  has  no  money?  In  “popular  neigh- 
borhoods” in  Brazil,  the  expectations  to  find  any  kind  of  work  are  precarious. 
Unemployment  in  the  city  ol  Bahia  is  almost  24  percent,  and  informal  labor  at 
43  percent,  hall  of  them  earning  under  the  line  of  social  exclusion  (Carvalho, 
Azevedo,  and  Almeida).  The  jobs  that  the  underclass  can  expect  to  achieve  in  the 
city  center  are  almost  inevitably  informal  services:  house  cleaning  for  women, 
house  repairs  or  street  selling  for  men  {biscate).  The  pay  for  these  services  is 
ridiculously  low,  irregular,  and  almost  inevitably  paid  on  hand  in  cash.  The 
work  is  often  intermittent  so  that  many  families  don’t  have  any  regular  source 
of-  income.  In  these  sitLiations,  sometimes  getting  complementary  money  is 
extremely  difficult,  involving  asking  for  an  advance  from  the  “masters,”  offer- 
ing extra  services,  begging  for  money,  playing  the  legal  and  illegal  lotteries,  not 
to  mention  petty  theft.  Not  having  a regular  income,  most  people  can’t  have 
a bank  account,  not  to  mention  a savings  account.  Poor  people  in  Bahia  are 
condemned  to  informality,  irregularity,  and  marginality.  They  have  no  savings 
or  credit,  and  can  hardly  make  any  plans  for  the  immediate  or  distant  future. 
They  don’t  exist  in  the  world  of  money.  If  people  can’t  save,  and  don’t  have 
credit,  they  may  feel  like  they  don’t  have  much  of  an  agency  over  their  own  lives. 

All  these  things  are  quite  obvious,  but  they  are  important,  because  these  are 
the  things  that  common  people  say  when  they  talk  about  money:  that  it’s  hard 
to  get,  yes,  but  also  that  it  is  easy  to  lose:  dinheiro  vivo,  cash  in  hand,  “living 
money,”  is  unruly,  fungible;  it  can’t  be  contained,  it  flies  away.  Essentially,  it  is 
difficult  to  print  one’s  own  agency,  one’s  own  value  on  it,  take  money  for  one’s 
own  ends.  This  is  the  essential  problem  that  the  recent  literature  on  the  “appro- 
priation” of  money  as  a tool  of  social  construction  (Zelizer;  Hart,  Memory, 
Maurer)  should  face.  Zelizer,  for  example,  makes  very  clear  how  the  practices 
of  “earmarking”  in  family  economies  “re-embed”  the  fungible  and  impersonal 
value  of  money  into  personal,  social  values.  But  the  communities  that  authors 
like  Zelizer  are  discussing  are  affluent  communities,  where  money  is  increas- 
ingly available,  and  therefore  easy  to  use.  But  how  to  “earmark”  money  when 
one  does  not  have  any?  The  desperate  messages  on  the  bills  reflect  this  concern. 
How  to  transform  money  into  my  money — how  to  transform  the  transient, 
fungible  value  of  money  into  some  enduring  value  I can  control? 

A common  discourse  on  the  capitalization  of  value  in  Bahia  would  be  built 
around  the  house.  Houses,  in  popular  neighborhoods,  are  almost  inevitably 
self-built.  People  build  them  little  by  little,  adding  up  bricks,  cement,  and 
paint  when  they  have  some  money.  Many  of  my  informants,  when  explaining 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  1 87 

how  they  built  their  houses,  talked  about  little  savings  they  make  in  their 
everyday  life:  “If  I eat  a sandwich  instead  of  a full  lunch,  with  the  money 
I save  I could  buy  some  pounds  of  cement.”  Every  little  sacrifice  adds  up;  the 
house  is  worth  it.  According  to  Marcelin,  the  house  in  the  popular  neighbor- 
hoods of  Brazil  is  more  than  a good  to  be  sold,  a thing,  or  an  ideology;  it  is  a 
practice  and  a symbolic  matrix  from  which  the  family  is  born  (36).  In  many 
ways  it  is  a model  of  and  a model  for,  to  follow  the  Geertzian  expression.  It  is 
around  the  house  that  the  family  is  constituted  and  reconstituted,  more  than 
the  other  way  around.  It  is  to  the  house  that  husbands,  sons,  and  daughters 
come  and  go.  When  a son  or  daughter  gets  married,  new  rooms  are  built  on  the 
house  for  the  newlyweds:  The  house  is  a place  and  a process  at  the  same  time. 

Putting  money  in  the  house  is  one  of  the  only  ways  that  the  poor  in  Brazil 
have  of  exercising  their  agency  to  control  the  fluidity  and  indeterminacy  of 
money.  This  model,  I think,  is  quite  important  to  understand  the  religious  use 
of  money  in  Neo-Pentecostal  churches,  as  I will  explain  in  the  next  section. 

Money  and  the  House  of  God. 

The  rise  of  the  Igreja  Universal  do  Reino  de  Deus  and  other  Neo-Pentecostal 
churches  is  one  of  the  more  astonishing  and  relevant  phenomena  in  the  recent 
history  of  Brazil,  both  a sign  of  the  enormous  contradictions  and  the  cultural 
transformations  of  this  country.  The  lURD  has  occupied  very  public  spaces, 
like  old  theatres,  to  perform  their  spectacular  ritual  sessions.  It  has  bought 
radio  stations  and  TV  channels.  This  public  presence  has  assured  a wide  suc- 
cess, particularly  amongst  the  lower  classes,  offering  a shelter  for  the  victims  of 
violence,  alcoholism,  drug-dependency,  and  poverty  in  general.  In  exchange, 
the  lURD  asks  for  two  things:  first,  the  economic  help  of  its  followers  in  the 
form  of  10  percent  of  their  earnings,  the  tithes  (Fig.  5);  second,  an  extreme 
combativeness  against  other  religions,  Catholicism  and  Candomble,  accused 
of  “idolatry”  and  Devil  worship  (see  Macedo). 

Money  is  central  to  the  ritual  practice  of  the  church.  In  this  regard,  the 
literature  is  divided  between  those  who  defend  the  church  as  a community  of 
believers  who  use  money  as  a sacrificial  gift  in  order  to  build  up  solidarity  in 
the  community  (Apgaua),  and  those  who  accuse  the  lURD  of  being  a com- 
modity fetishism  that  sanctifies  capitalism  (Campos;  Guareschi;  Jardilino; 

Mariano;  Comaroff  and  Comaroff),  a religion  of  money  led  by  entrepreneur- 
ial priests  who  take  advantage  of  the  believers,  managing  these  churches  as 
businesses  (Oro,  Avango). 


ROGER  SANSI 


188 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Fig.  5.  Envelope  for  the  tithes.  Note  the  Bible  quote  of  Malachi  3.10. 


Among  those  who  see  the  Gospel  of  Prosperity  as  a sacralization  of  capital- 
ism, Prandi  states  that,  in  the  Brazilian  tradition.  Catholics  were  not  respon-  ‘ 

sible  for  the  funding  of  its  church  (Prandi  and  Pierucci  266).  For  Prandi,  the  j 

act  of  paying  the  church  is  seen  as  an  investment,  with  the  certainty  that  it  ! 

will  come  back,  increased.  It  is  possible  to  make  God  a partner  in  business  ^ 

and  to  achieve  prosperity  without  limits  (Prandi  and  Pierucci  270).  For  the  ' 

Comaroffs,  this  ritual  of  prosperity  seems  to  mimic  “millennial  capitalism,”  j 

the  “casino  economy”  of  globalization,  in  which  money  does  not  come  as  a 
result  of  hardworking  Protestant  ethics  but  from  an  immediate  lucky  strike.  i 
Both  perspectives  are  right,  in  a way,  but  they  are  both  limited.  It  is  true  : 
that  the  official  discourse  of  the  lURD  emphasizes  the  “sacrificial”  value  of 
money  and  the  construction  of  a communion  with  God  through  it.  On  the  J 

other  hand,  money  and  prosperity  are  central  to  the  lURD.  One  perspective  ; 

is  based  on  the  commodity  (give  something  in  exchange  for  something),  the  | 

other  on  the  gift  (give  something  to  create  social  bonds).  Now,  both  things  ! 

are  not  necessarily  incommensurable,  as  “commodity”  and  “gift”  exchange.  It  |j 

is  just  a matter  of  temporality.  i 

The  tithes  are  not  simply  conceived  of  as  a “gift.”  In  the  words  of  Pastor  j* 

Ramos,  “Nobody  gives  tithes  to  the  Lord.  The  tithes  belong  to  the  Lord,  and  [: 

f. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


it  is  our  duty  to  give  it  back.  We  cannot  give  what  does  not  belong  to  us.  We 
do  not  give  money  to  the  government:  we  pay  taxes”  (9).  On  the  other  hand, 
the  tithes  are  not  a passport  to  prosperity:  “God  does  not  promise  to  trans- 
form poor  believers  into  rich  people,  just  because  they  pay  the  tithes.  What 
he  promises  is:  ‘Never  will  I leave  you:  never  will  I forsake  you’”  (31).^^  The 
members  of  the  lURD  don’t  necessarily  explain  stories  from  rags  to  riches. 
One  of  the  cases  on  the  lURD  TV  show  “Portrait  of  Faith”  can  help  us  under- 
stand this  point:  “Paulo”  had  a good  job,  but  he  didn’t  manage  his  money 
well.  The  money  went  away  in  drink,  playing,  women,  which  was  taking  him 
far  away  from  his  family.  Through  the  Church,  he  learned  to  “administer,” 
to  manage  his  money.  The  church  has  given  him  a frame,  a project,  and  a 
perspective.  In  other  terms,  it  has  taught  him  how  to  deal  with  money  and 
control  its  fungibility.  Other  cases  often  quoted  by  pastors  in  reference  to 
these  matters  try  to  make  the  same  point:  Pastor  Ramos  talks  about  Miguel,  a 
humble  worker  who  has  not  become  rich,  but  has  no  debts,  and  has  managed 
to  send  his  sons  to  college  (Ramos  17).  The  management  of  the  household, 
together  with  the  renunciation  of  adultery,  drugs,  and  gambling,  is  commonly 
cited  by  Neo-Pentecostals  as  the  major  benefit  of  their  conversion  (Fernandes 
et  ah).  Conversion  gives  the  believer  an  “economic”  perspective,  in  the  more 
traditional,  Aristotelian  sense  of  the  term,  a socially  “embedded”  management 
of  the  household  (Polanyi)  acquiring  agency  over  their  resources. 

The  constant  act  of  giving  money  to  the  church  through  the  tithes  is  not 
contradictory  with  this  “embedded”  economy;  on  the  contrary.  The  tithes  do 
not  necessarily  imply  an  immediate  return.  It  is  not  like  betting  on  the  lottery. 
Some  people  do  expect  immediate  return;  but  if  this  would  be  the  expectation 
of  all  the  believers,  the  church  would  not  last  long.  And  the  church  is  seen  pre- 
cisely as  something  that  has  to  last,  because  it’s  the  common  house,  the  house 
of  the  Lord.  The  fragment  of  the  Bible  that  is  always  quoted  (see  Figure  5) 
explicitly  makes  this  point: 

Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine  house, 
and  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  LORD  of  hosts,  if  I will  not  open  you  the 
windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room 
enough  to  receive  it.  (Malachi  3.10) 

There  has  to  be  a certain  delay  in  the  return  of  the  money.  In  a way, 
what  the  believers  are  buying  is  time  and  space  in  the  house  of  the  Lord; 


190 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


the  possibility  of  building  a long-term  strategy  for  their  lives;  a perspective, 
a project,  a structure,  getting  out  of  the  vicious  fluidity  and  ephemerality  of 
fungible,  “living  money.”  The  believers’  gift  of  money  is  neither  a bet  on  the 
stock  market  or  pure  sacrifice.  It  is  a long-term  investment  in  a stable,  secure 
value;  it  is  more  like  investing  in  real  estate,  a pension  fund,  or  paying  taxes,  as 
Pastor  Ramos  says.  They  are  buying  security.  They  are  not  worshiping  money, 
but  trying  to  control  its  living  force.  The  tithes,  actually,  are  the  radical  oppo- 
site of  money:  “Money  is  one  thing,  tithes  is  another.  Money  is  Mammon,  the 
god  of  the  century;  tithes  are  the  retribution  of  love”  (Ramos  62). 

In  general  terms,  to  say  that  the  lURD  is  a radically  new  “globalized” 
religion  of  money  capitalism  is  limited,  I think,  in  at  least  two  senses.  First, 
it  is  not  true  that  money  played  no  part  in  traditional  Catholic  religion  in 
Brazil,  as  we  have  seen  previously.  Second,  both  the  notion  that  authors  like 
Prandi  and  the  Comaroffs  have  of  money  as  “payment”  and  “investment”  and 
the  notion  that  believers  seek  God  as  a “partner  in  business”  are  a bit  limited. 
Money  is  not  just  a means  of  payment,  but  also  a standard  of  value — money 
can  be  seen  as  an  expression  of  trust  in  a shared  value — giving  credit  to  this 
value,  as  Mauss  and  Simmel  argued  (Hart,  Memory).  By  giving  money  to 
the  church  the  believers  may  not  be  just  seeking  a business  investment  and  a 
partnership,  they  may  be  building  upon  a common  value,  giving  credit  to  this 
common  project.  In  other  terms,  this  is  not  a religion  of  money,  a “money 
fetishism,”  a religion  that  says  that  money  is  God;  on  the  contrary,  it  says  that 
God  can  also  be  found  in  money — that  money  ultimately  belongs  to  God, 
and  not  the  other  way  around. 

The  believer  writes  “this  one  belongs  to  God”  on  the  bill,  as  he  belongs  to 
God.  And  that  gives  the  money  a secure,  stable  value  beyond  the  phantasma- 
gorical  values  of  the  world.  The  believer  is  “anchoring”  money  to  a standard  of 
value  that  is  much  more  stable  than  the  Dollar:  “For  the  true  believer,  the  tithes 
mean  that  God  is  the  Lord  of  everything,  despite  the  fact  that  people  believe  in 
the  economic  power  of  the  Dollar”  (Ramos  2).  She  is  not  simply  worshiping  the 
market,  but  states  that  the  hidden  hand  of  the  economy  is  not  just  an  imper- 
sonal law  of  nature.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  the  personal  hand  of  God. 

Is  this  an  instance  of  the  Weberian  “Protestant  Ethic”?  Are  we  witnessing 
the  birth  of  a “bourgeois  subject”?  Not  necessarily.  The  Pentecostal  churches 
do  not  seem  to  be  too  concerned  with  the  “disenchantment”  of  the  world. 
On  the  contrary,  in  their  ritual  practices  they  invoke  the  “enchanted”  spirits 
of  Afro-Brazilian  religions;  they  practice  exorcisms,  and  stage  spiritual  battles 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  191 

to  get  rid  of  these  personalized  entities,  these  spirits  of  everyday  life  that  con- 
strain the  full  development  of  the  person,  limiting  the  autonomy  of  indi- 
viduals, sucking  the  energy  from  their  bodies.  This  is  a Holy  War,  and  these 
churches  act  as  armies  of  God.  Still,  in  this  confrontation,  the  existence  of 
these  enchanted  spirits  in  the  world  is  recognized.  This  is  what  distances  Pen- 
tecostal churches  like  lURD  from  traditional  Protestantism,  and  what  brings 
them  closer  to  the  system  of  ritual  exchange  on  which  Candomble  and  popu- 
lar Catholicism  are  based:  the  former  patrons,  saints,  and  Orixas  have  been 
substituted  by  a higher  patron,  God.  Thus,  the  lURD  is  not  so  much  giving 
individual  freedom  to  the  convert  as  substituting  one  form  of  dependence  by 
another,  replacing  slavery  to  the  Orixa  with  the  militant  Church  of  God.^^ 

On  the  other  hand,  this  is  not  just  a spiritual  world,  but  also  a political  world. 

The  religion  of  the  Pentecostals  is  not  a private  ascetics;  it  fights  for  recognition 
in  the  public  sphere.  The  believer  is  not  only  using  his  money  to  build  her  own 
house,  and  the  House  of  the  Lord.  They  are  not  just  trying  to  build  their  own 
private  or  “alternative”  economy.  Ultimately,  the  project  of  the  lURD  is  much 
more  ambitious:  to  transform  the  value  of  money  at  its  source,  the  state. 

The  long-term  investment  of  the  Neo-Pentecostal  churches  is  not  only  an 
economic  investment,  but  also  a political  one.  Their  ultimate  project  is  noth- 
ing less  than  bringing  God  to  the  center  of  politics  (Oro,  “Polftica”;  Ma- 
chado). In  the  last  years,  the  lURD  has  actively  sent  several  of  its  pastors  to 
the  political  arena  (Oro,  “Polftica”).  Its  current  leader,  Bispo  Crivella,  is  an  MP 
in  the  Federal  Congress.  The  lURD  does  not  have  its  own  party;  its  members 
are  present  in  several  parties.  This  is  quite  effective  on  a general  scale  because 
politics  in  Brazil,  in  a landscape  of  countless  political  parties  linked  to  national, 
regional,  and  local  pressure  groups,  is  not  just  about  partisan  confrontation, 
but  also  about  mediation  and  alliances.  The  lURD  radically  opposed  Lula 
and  the  PT  in  the  early  nineties,  when  they  called  for  the  vote  for  Collor.  But 
in  the  last  years,  Bispo  Crivella,  head  of  the  lURD,  belongs  to  a party  (PL) 
that  has  been  allied  with  the  PT  government  of  Lula.  At  first  sight,  this  may 
look  like  an  outrageous  change  but  in  reality  it  is  quite  understandable  in  the 
context  of  Brazilian  parliamentary  politics.  Since  the  early  nineties,  both  the 
lURD  and  the  PT  have  become  “moderate”;  they  have  abandoned  ideological 
arguments  for  more  pragmatic  positions.  Lula  invokes  God  in  his  discourses 
and  the  lURD  politicians  talk  about  the  need  to  fight  poverty. 

What  brings  together  all  Neo-Pentecostal  politicians?  Their  self- assigned 
moral  righteousness  in  frontal  opposition  to  corruption,  seen  as  an  image  of 


ROGER  SANSI 


192 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


the  Devil.  They  claim  that  they  can  control  money — that  they  won’t  let  them- 
selves be  taken  by  the  devilish  agencies  of  “living  money.”  Their  promise  is  not 
only  to  regenerate  politics  but  also  to  regenerate  the  country. The  lURD,  and 
Bispo  Crivella  personally,  are  leading  a project  of  economic  development  in  one 
of  the  poorest  regions  of  the  country,  the  Projeto  Nordeste.  The  church  is  build- 
ing new  settlements,  like  the  Fazenda  Nova  Canaa  (New  Canaan  Farm).  These 
new  settlements  are  built  on  the  model  of  Israeli  Kibbutz.  According  to  Cri- 
vella, in  the  Kibbutz,  “the  land  belongs  to  the  state,  that  is  to  say,  to  all  citizens; 
the  benefits  must  be  reinvested  in  the  Kibbutz.  There  are  no  rich  or  poor,  they 
are  all  comrades.”  In  these  projects,  the  church  seems  to  take  the  shape  of  the 
state  itself,  as  a corporate  entity  that  provides  for  and  plans  all  the  needs  of  its 
citizens.  It  is  a model  of  the  state  that  also  has  to  be  managed  like  a household. 
This  is  indeed  very  different  from  a neoliberal  state,  but  is  it  is  not  very  different 
from  the  former,  traditional  corporatist  model  of  the  Brazilian  state.  According 
to  Machado,  once  in  office,  Pentecostal  politicians  use  the  same  populist  dis- 
courses on  social  welfare  as  traditional  politicians  in  Brazil,  as  well  as  the  same 
patronage  systems,  enhanced  perhaps  by  the  networks  of  the  church.  What  is 
different  though  is  that  for  Crivella  faith  is  more  important  than  economic 
development;  faith  is  what  will  change  Brazil. In  the  middle  term,  it  is  not 
unthinkable  that  Crivella  present  his  candidacy  for  the  presidential  election. 

Conclusion:  Money,  religion,  and  politics  in  Brazil 

In  this  article,  I have  exposed  some  common  misconceptions  on  the  rela- 
tionship of  money  and  religion  in  Brazil.  First  of  all,  I have  shown  how  the 
supposedly  radical  contradiction  between  traditional  religious  practices  and 
money  in  that  country  is  a false  premise.  Money  and  the  market  have  been 
present  in  everyday  religion  in  Brazil  from  its  very  origins.  This  is  an  impor- 
tant precedent  to  the  second,  main  argument  I have  presented,  concerning 
the  value  of  money  in  the  Neo-Pentecostal  churches.  Many  authors  have 
argued  that  the  centrality  of  money  in  these  churches  is  the  result  of  “glo- 
balization,” “neoliberalism,”  and  “commodity  fetishism.”  Going  back  to  the 
economic  history  of  money  in  Brazil,  and  the  discourse  of  these  churches,  I 
have  shown  how  the  story  is  a bit  more  complicated  than  that.  More  than 
money  fetishism,  the  Universal  Church  re-appropriates  money,  transforming 
it  into  an  instrument  of  divine  agency. 

But  further  than  that,  I have  also  argued  that  the  use  of  money  at  the 
Universal  Church  does  not  stop  at  the  re-appropriation  of  money  for  religious 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  193 

purposes.  Its  final  objective  is  to  transform  the  very  source  of  production  of 
money,  Brazil,  into  a Christian  country. 

This  case  has  interesting  implications  for  the  literature  on  the  re-appro- 
priation  and  the  personalization  of  money.  This  literature  is  interested  in 
indicating  how  everyday  forms  of  using  money  (Zelizer),  new  technologies 
that  dematerialize  money  (Hart,  Memory),  and  alternative  currencies  (Mau- 
rer) show  the  limits  of  the  state  as  the  sole  standard  of  value.  The  state,  it  is 
argued,  is  not  the  sole  provider  of  the  “universal  equivalent,”  the  “ultimate 
objectifier.”  What  we  have  seen  in  the  case  of  the  Neo-Pentecostals  is  slightly 
different.  For  the  lURD,  the  state  is  still  central.  They  are  not  simply  giving 
an  “alternative”  value  to  money,  but  they  are  hoping  that  the  sacred  value  they 
give  to  money  finally  prevails  in  the  whole  country. 

Will  they  effectively  succeed  in  this  objective?  With  time,  it  becomes  obvi- 
ous that  some  of  the  righteous  politicians  of  the  lURD  are  as  perfectly  cor- 
rupt as  others.  And  believers  realize  that  the  spiritual  bank  where  they  put 
their  money  is  not  so  reliable,  and  the  priests  are  not  sharing  their  riches  with 
the  people.  Or,  more  simply,  they  can’t  afford  it;  they  are  not  able  to  control 
their  money;  they  are  not  able  to  control  their  life.  In  these  situations,  faith 
weakens  and  many  return  to  the  old  beliefs,  the  old  practices.  My  main  infor- 
mant in  Bahia,  in  fact,  was  a Candomble  priestess  who  for  many  years  had 
been  a member  of  the  lURD.  The  forces  of  living  money  and  the  saints  were 
stronger  than  the  church  for  her. 

I know  people  who  are  not  active  members  of  the  lURD  but  who  go  to 
the  church  now  and  then,  and  don’t  give  the  tithes  regularly.  They  performed 
a particular  ritual:  they  gave  the  Bible  to  be  blessed  to  the  pastor  with  some 
bills  in  it.  The  idea  is  that  the  money  in  the  blessed  Bible  would  multiply.  I 
am  not  aware  that  this  practice  is  sanctioned  by  the  dogmas  of  the  church. 

But  the  fact  is  that  it  is  perfectly  coherent  with  forms  of  money  magic  in 
Candomble  or  popular  Catholicism,  as  we  have  described  them.  The  political 
project  of  the  lURD  is  re-appropriated  by  everyday  magic;  maybe  it  is  not 
inevitable  that  the  Kingdom  of  God  comes.  Brazil  might  remain  a nation 
of  money-worshippers,  as  it  has  always  been,  like  many  other,  presumably 
“modern”  nations,  who  have  also  been  formed  on  the  grounds  of  slavery,  the 
objectification  of  people,  and  the  fetishism  of  commodities. 


ROGER  SANSI 


194 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Notes 

' “Ot  course  we  want  to  have  money,  but  we  can  compensate  for  its  absence  with  the  full 
presence  ol  our  friends,  health,  ‘education,’  and  above  all,  ‘happiness.’  Such  inability  to  see 
money — and  especially  the  possession  of  money — as  a positive  activity,  as  the  objective  of  all 
things,  creates  zones  ol  tolerance  and  social  compensation  that  seem  important  in  the  Brazilian 
case”  (DaMatta  172).  For  DaMatta,  Brazil  would  not  be  exactly  an  egalitarian  society  but  is  par- 
tially a “hierarchical”  one,  following  Luis  Dumont’s  model  (Oliven  26).  But  the  idea  that  Brazil 
is  a traditional,  hierarchical,  and  personalist  society  has  a long  and  illustrious  tradition  in  Brazil- 
ian social  thought,  since  Gilberto  Freyre,  Oliveira  Vianna,  and  Sergio  Buarque  de  Hollanda. 

^ The  ComarofFs  are  obviously  not  the  only  authors  to  discuss  the  relationship  between 
modernity  and  religion  in  Africa;  for  an  excellent  review  of  the  literature  on  the  subject,  see  Meyer. 

^ For  example,  in  the  records  of  the  Inquisition:  “[Vjeio  3 vezes  uma  preta  chamada  Teresa 
Sabrina,  que  ouviu  dizer  morava  em  Santo  Antonio  do  Carmo,  no  mes  de  Setembro  de  1758, 
entrou  no  Convento  a curar  a uma  religiosa  chamada  Maria  Teresa  Josefa  com  abusos  de  sua 
terra,  pondo-lhe  o pe  em  cima  de  uma  caveira  de  carneiro,  lavando  o pe  e cantando  a sua  lingua 
e mandando  esfregar  o corpo  da  religiosa  com  um  tostao  de  cobre”  (qtd.  in  Mott). 

In  the  axexe,  everybody  leaves  money  in  the  central  cuia.  Afterwards,  the  priests  will 
take  the  cuia  outside,  where  it  will  sit  besides  the  other  assentos  of  the  deceased.  “Cada  uma 
sauda  o exterior,  a cuia,  os  presentes  e dan^a  em  volta  da  cuia  colocando  moedas  que  passam 
previamente  por  sua  cabe^a,  delegando  sua  propria  pessoa  ao  morto  [...].  Todos  os  presentes 
estao  obrigados  a despedir-se  do  morto  e delegar-se  nele  por  meio  das  moedas  que  colocam  na 
cuia-emissario”  (Elbein  231-232). 

^ For  example,  in  the  Church  of  Sao  Lazaro  and  Sao  Roque  in  Bahia,  a woman  was  asking 
for  the  return  of  her  man,  and  something  else:  winning  the  lottery. 

^ “A  pegar  nesta  nota  voce  vai  ter  muito  dinheiro  de  Sao  Cosme  e Sao  Damiao.  Escreva  6 
notas  iguais  a esta  e distribua.” 

^ The  figure  of  Exu  certainly  reminds  one  of  Taussig’s  The  Devil  and  Commodity  Fetishism 
in  Latin  America.  However,  the  association  of  Exu  with  money  and  theft  is  not  the  result  of 
modern  industrial  capitalism.  It  can  be  traced  back  to  Africa  (see  Verger).  Maybe  we  could  rec- 
ognize that  nineteenth-century  Yoruba  were  also  modern  “commodity  fetishists.”  But  then  one 
of  Taussig’s  assumptions — that  “Latin  Americans”  and  maybe  “Africans”  lived  in  pre-capitalist 
societies  until  not  so  long  ago — wouldn’t  make  much  sense  in  that  case. 

^ Inflation,  and  deficits,  are  not  a particularly  recent  problem  in  Brazil.  Since  the  Empire 
had  its  first  budget,  it  was  evident  that  the  state  had  a deficit.  The  economy  being  based  on 
agricultural  exports,  most  manufactured  goods  had  to  be  imported  from  European  countries: 
Brazil  was  a dependent  country.  But  after  the  1930s,  Brazil  sought  to  overcome  the  circuit  of 
dependency  by  planning  a policy  of  import-substitution-industrialization,  giving  support  to 
industries  and  initiating  welfare  policies  geared  towards  the  rising  working  class.  These  develop- 
ment policies  culminated  in  the  late  fifties  with  the  construction  of  Brasilia,  the  new  capital,  lit- 
erally in  the  middle  of  nowhere.  Deficits  and  inflation  continued  rising  throughout  this  period, 
but  they  were  not  necessarily  seen  as  a problem  for  the  economy — but  as  indexes  of  growth.  If 
more  money  was  needed,  more  money  was  made.  The  dictatorship  that  ruled  Brazil  from  the 
mid-sixties  to  the  mid-eighties  didn’t  substantially  change  the  policy  of  import-substitution- 
industrialization.  They  would  cut  the  social  budget,  but  they  went  on  getting  indebted  to  orga- 
nize monumental  industrial  and  technological  projects,  like  the  space  station  in  Alcantara. 

^ The  Real  Plan  in  many  ways  combined  different  ideas  from  previous  plans,  the  first,  that 
inflation  was  partially  inertial,  and  that  this  could  be  solved  by  replacing  it  with  a new  currency. 
But  this  time  the  new  currency  wouldn’t  replace  the  old  one  at  once.  First,  before  the  Real  was 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


actually  distributed  to  replace  the  Cruzeiro  Real  (a  currency  that  lasted  one  year!  1993-1994), 
before  it  was  actually  “real,”  if  I am  allowed  the  cheap  joke,  financial  transactions  would  be 
presented  in  the  two  currencies — Cruzeiro  Real  and  the  new  currency,  then  still  called  URV 
(Unidade  de  Referenda  de  Valor),  Unit  of  Value  Reference.  The  URV  was  counted  in  relation 
to  the  US  Dollar — it  was  “anchored”  to  the  Dollar,  but  the  Brazilian  government  didn’t  go  so 
far  as  to  guarantee  the  total  convertibility  to  the  Dollar — the  “currency  board”  strategy  favored 
by  the  IMF  (Filgueiras  190).  The  URV  was  a sort  of  incomplete  money:  not  yet  a means  of  pay- 
ment and  reserve  of  value,  but  already  an  accounting  unit  (like  the  Euro  in  Europe  some  years 
later).  More  specifically,  the  objective  was  that  the  URV  would  gradually  replace  the  Cruzeiro, 
in  a way,  to  “erase”  the  memory  of  the  previous  currency. 

The  personal  character  of  money  was  already  evident  for  Simmel.  As  he  said  once,  money 
is  the  purest  form  of  the  tool:  “Just  as  my  thoughts  must  take  the  form  of  a universally  understood 
language  so  that  I can  attain  my  practical  ends  in  this  roundabout  way,  so  must  my  activities  and 
possessions  take  the  form  of  money  value  in  order  to  serve  my  more  remote  purposes.  Money  is 
the  purest  form  of  the  tool  [...,]  it  is  an  institution  through  which  the  individual  concentrates  his 
activity  and  possessions  in  order  to  attain  goals  that  he  could  not  attain  directly”  (Simmel  210). 

" In  the  last  years,  a so-called  “credicard”  is  being  offered  in  low-income  shopping  malls 
and  by  phone.  This  “credit  card”  gives  some  credit  (sometimes  200  or  300  reais  per  month) 
at  the  expense  of  an  excruciatingly  high  interest  rate  (30  percent  according  to  my  informants; 
people  from  the  Credicard  company  refused  to  give  me  any  specific  information  or  copies  of  the 
contract  forms).  Despite  this,  people  use  it  in  emergency  situations,  when  they  don’t  have  any 
cash  in  hand — which  is  quite  often. 

^^The  full  quote  of  Hebrews  13.5  is:  “Keep  your  lives  free  from  the  love  of  money  and  be  con- 
tent with  what  you  have,  because  God  has  said,  ‘Never  will  I leave  you;  never  will  I forsake  you.’” 

The  fact  is  that  this  fight  against  the  Devil  is  difficult  to  carry  on,  and  very  often  is  unsuc- 
cessful, not  only  because  the  convert  doesn’t  meet  the  economic  requirements  of  the  Church 
but  also  because  the  exorcisms  are  often  ritually  ineffective,  and  the  Orixas  resist  abandoning  the 
body  of  their  former  initiates  (Birman,  “Cultes”).  It  is  common  in  Candomble  circles  to  boast 
of  how  many  evangelicals  come  secretly  to  the  terreiros  to  ask  for  magical  cures  for  their  spiritual 
and  material  problems.  And  a number  of  people  have  returned  to  their  “Obligations”  in  Can- 
domble, because  their  Orixas  refuse  to  let  them  go.  On  a more  practical  level,  one  cannot  so 
easily  avoid  talking  to  one’s  own  neighbors  and  family;  even  if  people  remain  in  the  church,  they 
become  more  relaxed  and  diplomatic  after  their  initial  process  of  conversion.  Saying  that,  I don’t 
want  to  suggest  that  Candomble  is  striking  back  and  that  Pentecostals  are  losing  their  Holy 
War.  There  are  signs  that,  at  least  in  the  media,  it  is  getting  tougher.  I only  want  to  suggest  that, 
besides  the  war  in  the  media,  there  are  a lot  of  people  that  have  changed  sides  more  than  once. 

“Os  espfritos  que  atuam  na  polftica,  disse  recentemente  o Bispo  Rodrigues,  sao  os  espfri- 
tos  dominadores,  os  principes  das  trevas”  {Jornal do  Bmsil2^  Oct.  2001).  “O  diabo  esta  alojado 
dentro  do  Congresso  Nacional,  criando  leis  injustas  e erradas”  {Folha  Universal  302  18  Jan. 
1998)  (see  Oro,  “Polftica”). 

“[E]m  meio  a tantas  falcatruas  e espertezas  [que  vigora  na  polftica  do  pafs]  os  homens  e 
mulheres  que  levam  o nome  de  Deus  [subentende-se  a bancada  parlamentar  da  lURD]  nao  se 
deixaram  contaminar  pela  pratica  comum  da  corrup^ao.  Os  nossos  candidatos  mostraram,  na 
pratica,  o que  e verdadeiramente  a etica  na  polftica”  (Rodrigues  7-8). 

“Em  Israel,  o princfpio  do  kibutz  e:  a terra  pertence  ao  governo,  ou  seja,  a todos  os 
cidadaos.  O lucro  que  se  tern  e reinvestido  no  kibutz.  Nao  ha  ricos  nem  pobres  e todos  sao 
companheiros — diz  o bispo  Crivella”  (www.igrejauniversal.com.br). 

“Bispo  Crivella  lan^a  sua  biografia.”  Area  Universal  28  Apr.  2005  (www.igrejauniversal. 
com.br). 


196 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Works  Cited 

Apgaua,  Renata.  “A  dadiva  Universal — reflexoes  em  urn  debate  ficcional.”  Diss.  UFMG,  1999. 
Print. 

Birman,  Patricia.  “Cultes  de  Possession  et  Pentecotisme  au  Bresil:  passages.”  Cahiers  du  Brhil 
Contemporain  55 3G  (1998):  185-208.  Print. 

. “Imagens  religiosas  e projetos  para  o futuro.”  Religiao  e espa^o  publico.  Ed.  Patricia 

Birman.  Sao  Paulo:  Attar,  2004.  234-254.  Print. 

Bloch,  Maurice,  and  Jonathan  Parry,  eds.  Money  and  the  Morality  of  Exchange.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  UP,  1989.  Print. 

Campos,  Leonildo  Silveira.  Teatro,  templo  e mercado:  organizagao  e marketing  de  um  empreendi- 
mento  neo-pentecostal  Petropolis:  Vozes,  1997.  Print. 

Carvalho,  I.  M.  M.,  P.  H.  Azevedo,  and  J.  S.  C.  Almeida.  “Dinamica  metropolitana  e estrutura 
social  em  Salvador.”  Tempo  [Rev.  Sociol.  USP,  Sao  Paulo]  13.2  (2001):  89-1 14.  Print. 

Comaroff,  Jean,  and  John  Comaroff.  “Millennial  Capitalism:  First  Thoughts  on  a Second 
Coming.”  Public  Culture  12.2  (2000):  291-343.  Print. 

DaMatta,  Roberto.  Conta  de  mentiroso.  Sete  ensaios  de  antropologia  brasileira.  Rio  de  Janeiro: 
Rocco,  1993.  Print. 

Elbein  dos  Santos,  Juana.  Os  Nago  e a morte:  Fade,  Asese  e o culto  Egun  na  Bahia.  Petropolis: 
Vozes,  1976.  Print. 

Fernandes,  R.,  P.  Velho  Sanchis,  O.  C.  Piquet,  C.  L.  Mariz,  and  C.  Mafra.  Novo  nascimento:  os 
evangelicos  em  casa,  na  politica  e na  igreja.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Mauad,  1998.  Print. 

Filgueiras,  L.  A.  M.  Historia  do  piano  real:  fundamentos,  impactos  e contradigoes.  Sao  Paulo: 
Boitempo,  2000.  Print. 

Cell,  Alfred.  Art  and  Agency.  London:  Clarendon,  1998.  Print. 

Cuareschi,  P.  A.  “Sem  dinheiro  nao  ha  salva^ao:  ancorando  o bem  e o mal  entre  os  neopente- 
costais.”  Textos  em  representacoes  socials.  Petropolis: Vozes,  1995.  191-223.  Print. 

Curgel,  M.  C.  L.,  and  S.  C.  Vereza.  “O  dragao  da  infla^ao  contra  santo  guerreiro:  um  estudo  de 
metafora  conceitual.”  Intercambio5  (1996):  165-178.  Print. 

Hart,  Keith.  “Heads  or  Tails?  Two  Sides  of  the  Coin.”  Man  21.4  (1986):  637-656.  Print. 

. The  Memory  Bank:  Money  in  an  Unequal  World.  London:  Profile,  1999.  Print. 

Irrougine,  Bouzid.  “Teoria  e politica  monetarias  e as  novas  formas  de  moeda  e pagamento.” 
Unpublished  manuscript,  2005.  Print. 

Jardilino,  Paulo.  “Neo-pentecostalismo:  religiao  na  fronteira  da  modernidade.”  Reves  do  Avesso 
(Nov.-Dee.  1994):  42-50.  Print. 

Kramer,  Eric.  “Possessing  Faith:  Commodification,  Religious  Subjectivity,  and  Community  in  a 
Brazilian  Neo-Pentecostal  Church.”  Diss.  U of  Chicago,  1999.  Print. 

Macedo,  E.  Orixds,  caboclos  e guias:  deuses  ou  demonios.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Universal  Produ^oes, 
1987.  Print. 

Machado,  M.  D.  C.  “Existe  um  estilo  neo-pentecostal  de  fazer  politica?”  Religiao  e espago 
publico.  Sao  Paulo:  Attar,  2003.  283—308.  Print. 

Marcelin,  Louis  Herns.  “A  linguagem  da  casa  entre  os  negros  do  reconcavo  bahiano.”  MANA 
5.2  (1999):  31-60.  Print. 

Mariano,  Ricardo.  “Os  neopentecostais  e a teologia  da  prosperidade.”  Novos  Estudos  44  (Mar. 
1996):  24-44.  Print. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


197 


Maurer,  Bill.  Mutual  Life,  Limited:  Islamic  Banking,  Alternative  Currencies,  Lateral  Reason. 
Princeton:  Princeton  UP,  2005.  Print. 

Meyer,  Birgit.  “Christianity  in  TVfrica:  From  7\frican  Independent  to  Pentecostal-Charismatic 
Churches.”  Annual  Review  of  Anthropology  (2004):  447—74.  Print. 

Mott,  L.  “Cotidiano  e vivencia  religiosa:  entre  capela  e o calundu.”  Historia  da  vida privada  no  Brasil: 
cotidiano  e vida  privada  na  America  portuguesa.  Sao  Paulo:  Editora  Schwarcz,  1997.  Print. 

Oliven,  Ruben  Jorge.  “De  olho  no  dinheiro  nos  Estado  Unidos.”  Estudos  Historicos  27  (2001): 
1-29.  Print. 

Oro,  Ari  Pedro.  Avan^o  neo-pentecostal  e reagao  catolica.  Petropolis:  Vozes,  1996.  Print. 

. “A  pohtica  da  Igreja  Universal  e sens  reflexos  nos  campos  religioso  e politico  brasileiros.” 

18.53  (2003):  53-69.  Print. 

Polanyi,  Karl,  ed.  Trade  and  Commerce  in  Early  Empires.  Glencoe,  IE:  Free  Press,  1957.  Print. 

Prandi,  R.,  and  Antonio  Flavio  Pierucci.  A realidade  social  das  religioes  no  Brasil.  Sao  Paulo: 
Hucitec,  1996.  Print. 

Ramos,  Osvaldo.  Dizimos  e bengaos.  Sao  Paulo:  Vida,  1994.  Print. 

Rodrigues,  Bispo  Carlos.  A igreja  e a politica.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Universal,  1998.  Print. 

Simmel,  Georg.  The  Philosophy  of  Money.  London:  Routledge,  1990.  Print. 

Souza,  Laura  de  Mello  e.  O diabo  e a Terra  de  Santa  Cruz.  Sao  Paulo:  Companhia  das  Letras, 
1986.  Print. 

Taussig,  Michael.  The  Devil  and  Commodity  Eetishism  in  Latin  America.  Chapel  Hill:  U of 
North  Carolina  P,  1980.  Print. 

Verger,  Pierre.  Orixds.  Salvador  de  Bahia:  Corrupio,  1981.  Print. 

Zelizer,  Viviane.  The  Social  Meaning  of  Money.  Princeton:  Princeton  UP,  1997.  Print. 

Zweig,  Stefan.  Brazil,  pats  do  futuro.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civiliza9ao  brasileira,  1942.  Print. 


Websites 

wvwv.biblegateway.com 

vwvw.igrejauniversal.com.br 


> 

:n 

:)■ 

T, 

C 

c 


Roger  Sansi  (PhD,  University  of  Chicago  2003)  is  senior  lecturer  in  the  Department  of 
Anthropology,  Goldsmiths  University  of  London.  His  recent  publications  include  Fetishes  and 
Monuments:  Afro-Brazilian  Art  and  Culture  in  Bahia  (Berghahn,  2007)  and  Sorcery  in  the 
Black  Atlantic  {co-tdlmd  with  L.  Nicolau:  U of  Chicago  P,  2010).  Email:  ans01rsr@gold.ac.uk 


ROGER  SANSI 


The  Personal  Significance  of  Impersonal  Money 


Keith  Hart 


Abstract.  Money,  as  a token  of  society,  must  be  impersonal  in  order  to 
connect  each  individual  to  the  universe  of  relations  to  which  they  belong. 
The  economists  capture  this  aspect  of  money  in  their  abstract  models  of 
universal  exchange.  But  people  make  everything  personal,  especially  their 
relations  with  the  conditions  of  their  collective  existence.  Anthropologists 
and  sociologists  are  sensitive  to  the  meaning  of  money  in  the  context  of 
peoples  lives.  We  need  ways  of  extending  everyday  knowledge  to  reach 
the  parts  we  don’t  know.  A synthesis  of  the  sort  pioneered  by  Mauss  is 
therefore  urgent. 


Money,  society,  religion 

Money  is  often  portrayed  as  a lifeless  object  separated  from  persons,  whereas 
in  fact  it  is  a creation  of  human  beings,  imbued  with  the  collective  spirit  of 
the  living  and  the  dead. 

Money,  as  a token  of  society,  must  be  impersonal  in  order  to  connect  each 
individual  to  the  universe  of  relations  to  which  they  belong.  It  is  this  aspect 
of  money  that  the  economists  capture  in  their  abstract  models  of  univer- 
sal exchange.  But  people  make  everything  personal,  especially  their  relations 
with  the  conditions  of  their  collective  existence.  Anthropologists  and  sociolo- 
gists are  sensitive  to  the  meaning  of  money  in  the  context  of  people’s  everyday 
lives.  The  unity  of  this  two-sided  relationship  is  universal  (Hart,  “Heads” 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  (20 1 2):  1 99—2 1 9. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


200 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


and  Hit  Man^,  loLir  its  incidence  is  highly  variable,  providing  a thread  for  the 
study  of  human  history  as  a whole  and  in  all  its  diversity. 

The  ways  we  combine  the  personal  and  impersonal  aspects  of  money  have 
much  in  common  with  religion.  Religion,  following  the  word’s  Latin  etymol- 
og)^  binds  each  of  us  to  an  external  force,  lending  stability  to  our  meaningful 
interaction  with  the  world  and  providing  an  anchor  for  our  volatility.  What 
we  know  intimately  is  our  own  everyday  life,  the  mundane  features  of  our 
personal  routines;  but  this  life  is  subject  to  larger  forces  whose  origins  we 
do  not  know — natural  disasters,  social  revolutions,  and  death.  We  recognise 
these  unknown  causes  of  our  fate  to  be  at  once  individual  and  collective; 
religion  is  the  organised  attempt  to  bridge  the  gap  between  the  known  and 
the  unknown,  between  the  world  of  ordinary  experience  and  an  extraordinary 
world  that  lies  beyond  it.  Durkheim  held  that  what  is  ultimately  unknown  to 
us  is  our  collective  being  in  society  {Elementary  Forms).  The  chaos  of  everyday 
life  thus  attains  a measure  of  order  to  the  extent  that  it  is  informed  by  ideas 
representing  the  social  facts  of  a shared  existence.  The  object  of  religion  is  “the 
holy”  and  holiness  is  whole  (Rappaport,  Ritual  and  Religion).  Humanity’s  task 
today  is  to  assume  responsibility  for  life  as  a whole  on  this  planet  and  religion 
is  indispensable  to  that  end. 

Given  the  obscene  inequality  and  destructiveness  of  a world  society  whose 
driving  force  is  capitalism,  it  is  not  surprising  that  many  consider  the  system  of 
money  today  to  be  the  opposite  of  religious  or  at  least  to  constitute  a false  reli- 
gion whose  priests  are  the  economists.  Indeed,  religion  itself  has  a fairly  murder- 
ous reputation.  But  I argue  here  that  markets  and  money  are  essential,  indeed, 
universal  means  of  connecting  the  everyday  life  of  each  individual  to  the  widest 
horizons  of  our  collective  existence.  They  form  a field  of  social  experience  where 
the  personal  and  the  impersonal,  the  inside  and  the  outside,  the  known  and  the 
unknown  inevitably  are  joined,  requiring  us  to  devise  effective  ways  of  bring- 
ing them  together  as  a meaningful  whole.  This  may — probably  should — entail 
making  a break  with  the  organisation  of  money  as  we  know  it.  But  it  will  do 
us  no  good  to  repudiate  money  or  markets  as  such,  since  they  are  central  to 
human  civilisation,  past,  present,  and  future.  I attribute  this  position  to  Marcel 
Mauss,  whose  work  has  often  been  interpreted  rather  differently  (Hart,  “Marcel 
Mauss”).  It  is  well  known  that  Mauss  considered  The  Gift  {\925)  to  embody 
personal,  social,  and  spiritual  ties  in  economic  life,  but  he  also  aimed  to  show 
how  impersonal  money  and  markets  already  contain  these  qualities  and  might, 
with  appropriate  social  engineering,  develop  them  more  fully. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


201 


Mauss  on  money  and  markets 

Malinowski  says,  of  Trobriand  kula  valuables,  “ Currency  as  a rule  means  a 
medium  of  exchange  and  standard  of  value,  and  none  of  the  Massim  valuables 
fulfill  these  functions”  (13).  But  Mauss  replies: 


On  this  reasoning  [...]  there  has  only  been  money  when  precious  things  [...]  have 
been  really  made  into  currency — namely  have  been  inscribed  and  impersonalized, 
and  detached  from  any  relationship  with  any  legal  entity,  whether  collective  or 
individual,  other  than  the  state  that  mints  them  [...].  One  only  defines  in  this  way 
a second  type  of  money — our  own.  {Gift  100-102) 

He  argues  rather  that  primitive  valuables  like  those  used  in  kula  are  like 
money  in  that  they  “have  purchasing  power,  and  this  power  has  a figure  set  on 
it”  (101).  He  also  takes  Malinowski  to  task  for  reproducing  in  his  typology  of 
transactions  the  ideological  opposition  between  commercial  self-interest  and 
the  free  gift,  which  has  subsequently  been  attributed  by  Anglophone  anthro- 
pologists to  Mauss  himself  (Hart,  “Mauss”;  Sigaud). 

Emile  Durkheim,  in  seeking  to  refute  the  utilitarian  individualism  of  En- 
glish economics  in  The  Division  of  Labour  in  Society,  claimed  that  this  approach 
obscured  the  social  glue  of  “the  non-contractual  element  in  the  contract”  that 
made  the  economy  possible — a combination  of  law,  state,  customs,  moral- 
ity, and  shared  history  that  it  was  the  sociologist’s  task  to  make  more  visible. 
Thirty  years  later,  his  nephew  and  collaborator,  Marcel  Mauss,  had  to  take  a 
position  on  the  Bolshevik  revolution  and  its  aftermath;  he  did  so  while  draw- 
ing explicitly  on  sociological  method  (Mauss,  Ecrits).  He  was  highly  critical  of 
the  Bolsheviks’  coercive  resort  to  violence,  especially  against  the  most  active 
classes,  and  of  their  destruction  of  the  market  economy  along  with  confidence 
and  good  faith.  He  advocated  an  “economic  movement  from  below”  in  the 
form  of  syndicalism,  co-operation,  and  mutual  insurance.  His  greatest  hopes 
were  for  a consumer  democracy  driven  by  the  co-operative  movement.  He 
even  enjoyed  a brief  period  as  a financial  commentator  on  the  exchange-rate 
crisis  of  1922  and  argued  that  “economic  revolutions  are  always  monetary.” 
This  economic  movement  from  below  was  for  him  a secular  version  of  what 
can  be  found  in  the  religions  of  archaic  societies,  as  well  as  in  the  central 
phenomena  of  exchange  described  in  The  Gift.  They  are  all  “total  social  facts” 
in  the  sense  that  they  bring  into  play  the  whole  of  society  and  all  its  institu- 
tions— legal,  economic,  religious,  and  aesthetic. 


KEITH  HART 


202 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Against  the  contemporary  move  to  replace  markets  with  authoritarian 
states,  Mauss  insisted  that  the  complex  interplay  between  individual  freedom 
and  social  obligation  is  synonymous  with  the  human  condition  and  that  mar- 
kets and  money  are  universal,  if  not  in  their  current  impersonal  form,  because 
they  give  vent  to  this  interplay  He  concluded  that  the  attempt  to  create  a free 
market  for  private  contracts  is  utopian  and  just  as  unrealizable  as  its  antith- 
esis, a collective  based  solely  on  altruism.  Human  institutions  everywhere  are 
founded  on  the  unity  of  individual  and  society,  freedom  and  obligation,  self- 
interest  and  concern  for  others.  Modern  capitalism  rests  on  an  unsustainable 
attachment  to  one  of  these  poles  and  it  will  take  a social  revolution  to  restore 
a humane  balance. 

Perhaps  the  chief  message  of  The  G/yf  concerns  method.  Mauss  claims  that 
he  has  studied  societies  in  their  dynamic  integrity,  not  as  congealed  states  to 
be  decomposed  into  analytical  instances  of  rules  pertaining  to  law,  myth,  or 
value  and  price. 

By  considering  the  whole  together,  we  have  been  able  to  perceive  the  essential,  the 
movement  of  everything,  the  live  dimension,  the  fleeting  moment  when  society 
or  rather  men  become  aware  of  the  common  feelings  they  have  for  themselves 
and  others.  This  concrete  observation  of  social  life  gives  us  the  means  of  discov- 
ering new  facts  that  we  are  just  beginning  to  glimpse.  Nothing,  in  our  opinion, 
is  more  urgent  and  fruitful  than  this  study  of  social  facts.  (“Essai”  275-276;  my 
translation) 

We  must  follow  the  example  of  the  historians  and  observe  what  is  given, 
rather  than  split  up  social  phenomena  into  separate  abstractions.  The  reality  is 
always  a concrete  person  acting  in  society — “the  middle-class  Frenchman,  the 
Melanesian  of  this  or  that  island”  (274).  Then  sociologists  and  anthropolo- 
gists will  furnish  psychologists  with  material  they  can  use,  while  maintain- 
ing their  distinctive  pursuit  of  the  social  whole  and  of  group  behaviour  as 
a whole.  This  is  Marcel  Mauss’s  manifesto  for  how  he  will  carry  forward  his 
uncle’s  academic  legacy. 

The  impact  of  money  on  traditional  societies 

Every  anthropology  student  today  knows  that  money  undermines  the  integ- 
rity of  cultures  that  were  hitherto  resistant  to  commerce.  Although  Paul 
Bohannan’s  articles  on  the  Tiv  have  come  in  for  substantial  criticism  by 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


203 


regional  specialists  (see  Giiyer),  they  remain  the  main  reference  for  anthro- 
pological discussion  of  money-driven  markets  and  their  presumed  antithesis. 
Before  being  colonised  by  the  British  around  1900,  the  Tiv  maintained  a 
mixed  farming  economy  on  the  fringe  of  trade  routes  linking  the  Islamic 
civilisation  of  the  North  with  the  rapidly  westernising  society  of  the  coast. 
Bohannan  argues  that  the  pre-colonial  Tiv  economy  was  organised  through 
three  “spheres  of  exchange,”  arranged  in  a hierarchy;  like  could  normally  only 
be  exchanged  with  like  within  each  sphere.  At  the  bottom  were  subsistence 
items  like  foodstuffs  and  household  goods  traded  in  small  amounts  at  local 
markets.  Then  came  a limited  range  of  prestige  goods  linked  to  long-distance 
trade  and  largely  controlled  by  Tiv  elders.  These  included  cloth,  cattle,  slaves, 
and  copper  bars,  the  last  sometimes  serving  as  a unit  of  account  and  means  of 
exchange  within  its  sphere  (“special-purpose  money”).  The  highest  category 
was  rights  in  persons,  above  all  women,  ideally  sisters,  exchanged  in  marriage 
between  male-dominated  kin  groups. 

The  norm  of  exchanging  only  within  each  sphere  was  sometimes  breached. 
Conversion  upward  was  emulated  and  its  opposite  was  disgraceful.  The 
absence  of  general-purpose  money  made  both  difficult.  Subsistence  goods  are 
high  in  bulk  and  low  in  value;  they  do  not  transport  easily  and  their  storage 
is  problematic  (food  rots).  Prestige  goods  are  the  opposite  on  all  counts.  How 
many  peas  would  it  take  to  buy  a slave?  Moreover,  the  content  of  the  spheres 
had  changed:  sister  exchange  had  been  largely  replaced  with  bridewealth;  slav- 
ery was  abolished  and  the  supply  of  metal  rods  had  dried  up.  Yet  Bohannan 
still  insists  that  Tiv  culture  was  traditionally  maintained  through  this  separa- 
tion of  compartments  of  value. 

The  introduction  of  modern  money  (“general-purpose  money”)  was  a 
disaster,  according  to  him.  Anyone  could  sell  anything  in  small  amounts, 
accumulate  the  money,  buy  prestige  goods,  and  enter  the  marriage  circuit  on 
their  own  terms,  regardless  of  the  elders.  This  amounted  to  the  destruction  of 
traditional  culture.  It  is  as  if  the  technical  properties  of  modern  money  alone 
were  sufficient  to  undermine  a way  of  life.  The  contributors  to  Parry  and 
Bloch’s  volume  subscribe  to  a different  view,  holding  that  indigenous  societ- 
ies around  the  world  take  modern  money  in  their  stride,  turning  it  to  their 
own  social  purposes  rather  than  being  subject  to  its  impersonal  logic.  The 
underlying  theory  is  familiar  from  Durkheim.  There  are  two  circuits  of  social 
life:  one,  the  everyday,  is  short-term,  individuated,  and  materialistic;  the 
other,  the  social,  is  long-term,  collective,  and  idealised,  even  spiritual.  Market 


KEITH  HART 


204 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


transactions  fall  into  the  first  category  and  all  societies  seek  to  subordinate 
them  to  the  conditions  of  their  own  reproduction,  which  is  the  realm  of  the 
second  category.  For  some  reason,  which  they  do  not  investigate,  money  has 
acquired  in  western  economies  a social  force  all  of  its  own,  whereas  the  rest  of 
the  world  retains  the  ability  to  keep  it  in  its  place. 

So  here  too  we  have  a hierarchy  of  value  where  modern  money  comes  sec- 
ond to  the  institutions  that  secure  society’s  continuity.  The  picture  becomes 
clearer  if  we  apply  the  spheres  of  exchange  concept  to  western  societies.  As 
Alfred  Marshall  wrote  in  his  foundational  textbook.  Principles  of  Economics 
(1890),  it  is  not  uncommon  for  modern  consumers  to  rank  commodities 
according  to  a scale  of  cultural  value.  Other  things  being  equal,  we  would  pre- 
fer not  to  have  to  sell  expensive  consumer  durables  in  order  to  pay  the  grocery 
bills.  And  we  would  like  to  acquire  the  symbols  of  elite  status,  such  as  a first-rate 
education.  If  you  asked  a British  person  how  many  toilet  rolls  a BMW  is  worth 
or  how  many  oranges  buys  an  education  at  Eton,  they  would  think  you  were 
crazy.  Yet  all  these  things  have  been  bought  with  money  for  longer  than  we  can 
remember.  So  the  universal  exchangeability  introduced  by  modern  money  is 
compatible  with  cultural  values  denying  that  all  goods  are  commensurate.  Nor 
is  this  just  a matter  of  ideas;  there  are  real  social  barriers  involved.  It  does  not 
matter  how  many  oranges  a street  trader  sells,  he  will  not  get  his  son  accepted  at 
Eton.  And  the  gatekeepers  of  the  ancient  universities  insist  that  access  to  what 
they  portray  as  an  aristocracy  of  intelligence  cannot  be  bought. 

This  gives  us  a clue  to  the  logic  of  spheres  of  exchange.  The  aristocracy 
everywhere  claims  that  you  cannot  buy  class.  Money  and  secular  power  are 
supposed  to  be  subordinate  to  inherited  position  and  spiritual  leadership.  In 
practice,  we  know  that  money  and  power  have  long  gained  entry  into  ruling 
elites.  De  Tocqueville  praised  the  flexibility  of  the  English  aristocracy,  unlike  the 
French,  for  readily  admitting  successful  merchants  and  soldiers  to  their  ranks. 
One  class  above  all  others  still  resists  this  knowledge,  the  academic  intellectuals. 
And  so  we  line  up  with  Tiv  elders  in  bemoaning  the  corrosive  power  of  modern 
money  and  vainly  insist  that  traditional  culture  should  prevail. 

Markets  in  time 

Markets  are  constituted  by  reciprocal  acts  of  sale  and  purchase  that  econo- 
mists collapse  into  a single  moment  when  the  two  sides  achieve  equivalence. 
If  we  look  more  closely,  however,  the  moment  is  always  embedded  in  social 
processes  both  preceding  and  succeeding  it.  Thus  the  commodity  being  sold 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  205 

had  to  be  produced  and  brought  to  the  point  of  sale;  once  it  is  bought,  it 
is  taken  away  to  be  consumed  by  the  buyer.  The  chain  linking  production 
to  consumption  may  be  called  into  question  for  any  number  of  reasons,  as 
when  the  buyer  has  a complaint  against  the  seller  or  original  producer  if  the 
goods  prove  to  be  faulty.  Moreover,  market  relations  involve  money.  In  Marx’s 
classic  formulation  of  simple  commodity  exchange,  a seller  exchanges  com- 
modities for  money  and  later  uses  that  money  to  buy  commodities.  But  the 
money  involved  is  also  subject  to  complex  social  procedures.  The  seller  may 
offer  credit,  allowing  the  buyer  to  delay  payment.  Or,  if  cash  is  handed  over, 
there  is  a time  when  the  seller  is  holding  money  that  can  be  put  to  alternative 
uses,  ranging  from  personal  consumption  to  investment  in  other  forms  of 
enterprise.  It  therefore  does  considerable  violence  to  social  reality  to  assume 
that  the  moment  of  sale  can  be  frozen  in  time  as  an  isolated  event.  Put  simply, 
in  the  real  world,  markets  and  money  entail  considerations  of  time  and  social 
complexity.  In  the  process  they  are  made  personal. 

As  Mauss  pointed  out,  many  of  the  contracts  central  to  modern  economy 
have  a time  element  built  into  them  expressing  the  variable  social  relations 
between  buyers  and  sellers.  Have  you  ever  considered  why,  if  you  work  for 
wages,  you  only  get  paid  after  you  have  done  the  work;  or  why,  if  you  rent 
accommodation,  you  normally  have  to  pay  before  you  use  it?  This  inequal- 
ity reflects  the  social  superiority  of  employers  and  landlords,  their  ability  to 
decide  who  bears  the  risk  of  non-payment.  But  time  and  social  inequality 
enter  modern  economies  most  strongly  in  the  form  of  finance,  the  market 
for  money  itself  The  essence  of  credit  is  that  a buyer  initially  gets  something 
for  nothing  and  pays  later,  usually  with  interest.  This  may  take  the  form  of 
a loan  of  money  or  an  advance  of  goods.  In  either  case,  time  is  built  into  the 
transaction  and  the  ensuing  social  relations  of  credit  and  debt  are  fraught  with 
difficulty.  We  have  all  experienced  the  social  embarrassment  of  a loan  that  was 
not  repaid.  Credit  inevitably  invokes  the  personal  side  of  market  transactions, 
in  a way  that  impersonal  purchases  with  cash  need  not. 

Modern  markets  are  often  stereotypically  contrasted  with  “primitive 
exchange,”  “peasant  markets,”  or  “the  oriental  bazaar”  in  terms  of  the  latter’s 
reliance  on  personalised  transactions  (typified  by  bargaining)  that  have  largely 
been  displaced  from  the  capitalist  economy.  Thus,  in  many  non-industrial 
societies  it  is  normal  for  individuals  to  form  longstanding  partnerships  based 
on  the  loyalty  of  customers  to  particular  traders.  Yet  even  casual  inspection 
reveals  that  such  a personal  approach  to  market  relations  is  not  foreign  to 


KEITH  HART 


206 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


industrial  societies.  Think  of  all  those  who,  feeling  vulnerable  as  a result  of 
their  dependence  on  an  essential  machine,  such  as  a car  or  computer,  try  to 
build  a sense  of  interdependence  with  particular  companies  and  persons.  It 
is  nevertheless  the  case  that  the  personal  dimension  of  economic  life  is  more 
obvious  in  many  non-western  societies. 

When  1 carried  out  field  research  in  the  slums  of  Ghana’s  capital,  Accra, 
during  the  1960s,  1 was  slow  to  recognise  how  general  recourse  to  credit 
altered  the  working  of  market  relations  (Hart,  “Kinship”).  For  example,  a 
small  number  of  women  brewers  catered  at  weekends  for  the  drinking  needs 
of  young  male  migrants  to  the  city.  Their  profit  levels  at  first  seemed  to  be 
staggering.  I worked  it  out  that  the  value  of  sales  of  millet  beer  was  eight  times 
the  costs  of  production.  Like  everyone  else,  I assumed  that  these  women  must 
be  rich;  but  they  were  not.  The  vast  bulk  of  sales  were  on  credit  and  the  rate 
of  payment  was  so  poor  that  the  women  often  found  it  difficult  to  raise  the 
cash  to  buy  the  ingredients  for  another  brew.  Instead,  they  had  a large  retinue 
of  regular  customers  in  their  debt,  young  men  whom  they  could  call  upon  for 
various  services.  Some  of  these  women  were  politically  influential;  they  had 
substantial  investments  in  social  ties,  but  they  had  little  more  cash  to  spend 
than  the  majority  of  their  customers. 

In  truth,  most  people  in  our  world  do  not  have  enough  cash  in  hand  for 
markets  to  function  effectively  without  widespread  extension  of  credit  facili- 
ties. Levels  of  commercial  activity  are  depressed  in  many  poorer  regions,  and 
buying  now  in  order  to  pay  later  is  indispensable  to  maintaining  even  those 
levels.  In  Ghana  a fruit  or  vegetables  trader  would  typically  sit  in  a part  of  the 
market  surrounded  by  women  selling  the  same  commodity.  She  would  take 
her  supply  for  the  day  and  put  one-third  in  a basket  under  the  table.  The  rest 
would  be  divided  into  small  bundles  for  a few  pence  each,  adding  in  total  to 
a sum  that  left  her  some  margin  of  profit  over  her  costs.  Every  customer  paid 
the  same  amount,  but  she  would  use  the  stuff  in  the  basket  to  give  extras  to 
regulars  or  as  a way  of  attracting  new  customers.  Gontrary  to  western  stereo- 
types, haggling  was  rare  under  these  circumstances  and  a high  proportion  of 
sales  were  on  credit,  with  each  customer’s  record  locked  away  safely  in  her 
capacious  memory. 

Everyday  comestibles  like  food  were  bought  and  sold  in  this  way.  The  obvi- 
ous interest  of  the  client  was  in  gaining  access  to  regular  supplies  even  when  he 
had  no  money  (which  was  normal)  or  when  supplies  were  scarce  (which  was 
often).  The  trader’s  interest  lay  in  attracting  a stable  clientele  from  competitors 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  207 

and  in  having  a regular  outlet  even  when  the  market  was  oversupplied  and 
prices  would  otherwise  tumble.  One  reason  for  traders  sticking  together  in 
the  same  place  is  that  they  can  pool  information  about  credit  risks  and  are  less 
likely  to  be  played  off  against  each  other  by  cheating  customers.  You  do  not 
usually  haggle  when  relations  are  circumscribed  in  this  way.  Bargaining  tended 
to  occur  when  people  made  occasional  purchases  of  consumer  durables,  such 
as  a chair.  Here  a long-term  association  between  buyer  and  seller  is  unneces- 
sary and  the  business  of  getting  the  best  possible  deal  can  take  up  a lot  of  time. 

In  sum,  models  of  supply  and  demand  require  prices  to  adjust  up  and 
down  for  markets  to  clear.  There  is  no  need  for  this  process  to  involve  direct 
haggling  between  individual  buyers  and  sellers,  yet  such  bargaining  would  be 
a natural  expression  of  the  conflicting  interests  of  the  two  sides.  In  economic 
orthodoxy,  however,  emphasis  is  placed  on  competition  between  sellers  and 
the  idea  of  conflict  between  buyer  and  seller  is  associated  with  less  developed 
markets.  This  assertion  is  clearly  ideological,  since  it  abstracts  from  social  rela- 
tions over  time  that  inevitably  arise  in  modern  markets.  Credit,  wherever  it 
occurs  (and  it  is  indispensable  to  the  functioning  of  markets  everywhere), 
introduces  a bias  towards  greater  co-operation  between  buyer  and  seller  and 
reduced  competition  between  sellers.  These  patterns  of  association,  taken  to 
be  anomalous  in  economic  theory,  are  intrinsic  to  the  way  markets  work. 

Why  then  are  markets  supposed  to  be  subversive  of  traditional  social 
arrangements?  In  essence  it  is  because  commerce  knows  no  bounds  and  most 
local  societies  are  predicated  on  maintaining  a measure  of  control  over  their 
members.  All  markets  are  in  a sense  world  markets  in  that  they  link  spe- 
cific places  to  a proliferating  network  of  universal  scope.  In  the  face  of  this 
unknowable  extension  of  human  sociability,  the  ruling  elements  of  local  soci- 
eties seek  to  keep  markets  and  those  who  specialise  in  them  at  arm’s  length 
(Weber;  Polanyi,  Transformation).  Often  the  concrete  symbol  of  the  threat 
posed  by  markets  lies  in  merchants’  greater  command  of  money,  which  in 
turn  is  just  a measure  of  their  access  to  a wider  world.  Markets  likewise  offer 
a potential  means  of  escape  to  the  dominated  classes:  women,  young  people, 
serfs  and  slaves,  ethnic  minorities.  In  this  sense,  the  money  to  be  gained  from 
buying  and  selling  offers  relative  freedom  from  local  social  obligations,  while 
at  the  same  time  making  much  wider  social  connections  possible.  In  history, 
the  power  of  long-distance  merchants  has  frequently  modified  the  autonomy 
of  local  rulers,  and  markets  have  not  always  been  peripheral,  as  the  latter  may 
have  wished.  Rather,  the  dialectic  of  local  and  global  economy  defined  the 


KEITH  HART 


208 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Struggle  between  these  interdependent  interests  long  before  it  emerged  as  a 
prominent  feature  of  how  we  perceive  the  modern  world. 

The  decades  aroLind  1900  saw  the  first  department  stores,  concentrat- 
ing under  one  roof  a wide  range  of  goods  that  would  previously  have  been 
sold  in  separate  shops.  This  is  where  fixed  prices  came  from.  The  general 
shift  at  this  time  towards  more  impersonal  forms  of  economic  organisation 
had  important  consequences  for  marketing.  Bureaucracies  limit  the  personal 
discretion  of  employees,  hedging  their  activities  around  with  rules  that  can 
only  be  broken  at  risk  of  dismissal.  In  the  new  stores,  customers  dealt  face- 
to-face  with  assistants  who  had  no  power  to  negotiate.  That  power  rested 
with  owners  and  managers  who  were  now  removed  from  the  point  of  sale, 
unlike  the  small  shopkeeper.  The  main  imperative  of  management  was  to 
control  subordinates,  and  this  ethos  stretched  back  to  the  production  lines 
as  well  as  outwards  to  an  anonymous  market  of  consumers  whose  tastes  were 
manipulated  by  public  advertising.  The  transition  came  suddenly.  The  novel- 
ist Arnold  Bennett  describes  for  the  English  potteries  the  appearance  of  the 
phenomenon  of  fixed  posted  prices.  People  were  used  to  engaging  with  shop- 
keepers personally;  and  each  purchase  took  place  under  particular  circum- 
stances, involving  variable  price,  quality,  and  credit  terms,  all  of  them  based 
on  the  specific  relationship  between  trader  and  customer.  Bennett  recalls  the 
shock  of  encountering  for  the  first  time  goods  identified  by  little  white  cards 
with  non-negotiable  prices  on  them.  That  was  little  more  than  a century  ago, 
yet  most  western  consumers  today  find  sliding  prices  to  be  almost  as  threaten- 
ing as  beggars  in  the  street. 

Remarkably,  the  economists  chose  the  moment  of  this  bureaucratic  revo- 
lution to  reinvent  their  discipline  as  the  study  of  individuals  making  decisions 
in  competitive  markets.  In  this  way  they  took  the  oriental  bazaar  as  a model 
for  understanding  economies  dominated  by  states  and  corporate  monopolies 
(Geertz,  '' Peddlers”  2ind  “The  suq”).  It  is  a short  step  from  there  to  an  ideol- 
ogy that  represents  the  modern  world  as  a competitive  market  driven  by  the 
independent  decisions  of  a mass  of  individuals. 

Impersonal  money  and  its  institutionalist  critics 

So  where  did  impersonal  money  and  markets  come  from  and  how  impersonal 
are  they?  Money  was  traditionally  impersonal  so  that  it  could  retain  its  value 
when  it  moved  between  people  who  might  not  even  know  each  other.  If  you 
drop  a coin  or  banknote  on  the  floor,  whoever  picks  it  up  can  spend  it  just 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  209 

as  easily  as  you  can.  Money  in  this  form  is  an  instrument  detached  from  the 
person  who  uses  it.  The  expansion  of  trade  often  depended  on  this  objectivity 
of  the  medium  of  exchange  and  economists  have  long  debated  whether  mon- 
ey’s value  derives  from  its  being  a scarce  commodity  or  from  the  guarantees 
made  by  states  who  issued  it  (Hart,  “Heads”).  Bank  credit  on  the  other  hand 
has  always  been  more  directly  personal,  being  linked  to  the  trustworthiness 
of  individuals  and,  in  the  case  of  paper  instruments  such  as  cheques,  issued 
by  them.  The  idea  that  transactions  involving  money  are  essentially  amoral 
comes  from  its  impersonal  form,  but  until  recently,  in  most  societies,  the  bulk 
of  economic  life  was  carried  out  by  people  who  knew  each  other  and  were 
able  to  discriminate  between  individuals  on  the  basis  of  experience. 

J.  M.  Keynes  held  that  modern  money  was  as  old  as  the  invention  of  cit- 
ies and,  with  them,  the  State  (which  he  always  capitalised)  as  old  as  agrarian 
civilisation: 

The  State,  therefore,  comes  in  first  of  all  as  the  authority  of  law  which  enforces  the 
payment  of  the  thing  which  corresponds  to  the  name  or  description  in  the  contract 
[...].  [I]n  addition,  it  claims  the  right  to  determine  and  declare  what  thing  cont- 
sponds  to  the  name,  and  to  vary  its  declaration  from  time  to  time — when,  that  is  to 
say,  it  claims  the  right  to  re-edit  the  dictionary.  This  right  is  claimed  by  all  modern 
States  and  has  been  so  claimed  for  some  four  thousand  years  at  least.  (4) 

Bank  money  is  almost  as  ancient,  but  it  took  on  renewed  significance  for 
western  economic  history  in  the  Renaissance  (De  Roover).  Modern  national 
currencies  are  the  result  of  a merger  of  state  and  banking  systems,  leading 
authors  such  as  Aglietta  and  Orlean  to  stress  the  importance  of  sovereignty  in 
the  making  of  impersonal  money. 

This  strand  of  thinking  is  very  much  in  a minority  today,  when  the  mar- 
ket model  of  an  eighteenth-century  revolution  in  political  economy  (Smith) 
holds  undisputed  sway,  especially  in  the  English-speaking  world.  We  have 
already  touched  on  this  above  in  the  section  on  “markets  in  time.”  In  liberal 
ideology,  money  is  a commodity  just  like  any  other;  its  payment  in  exchange 
releases  buyer  and  seller  from  the  need  for  any  ongoing  relationship,  allowing 
both  the  money  and  what  it  buys  to  be  separated  from  their  owners  as  private 
property.  The  parties  to  the  exchange  are  conceived  of  as  individuals  devoid  of 
social  or  cultural  ties.  The  origin  of  such  markets  is  said  to  lie  in  the  “natural 
economy”  of  primitive  barter,  where  the  only  thing  missing  is  the  money. 


KEITH  HART 


210 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


which  appears  later  ro  make  good  the  inefficiencies  of  the  older  system.  The 
impersonality  of  money  and  of  the  transactions  it  facilitates  is  here  derived 
not  from  a universal  sovereign,  but  from  the  anonymity  of  homogeneous 
individuals  meeting  in  the  marketplace,  with  price  resolving  their  superficial 
differences.  The  value  of  commodities  is  traced  to  a common  origin  in  human 
labour.  This  is  less  a description  or  analysis  of  money  and  markets  than  an 
ideological  programme  for  displacing  states  from  their  central  position  in  the 
economy,  a programme  that  was  later  reversed  in  the  alliance  between  states 
and  corporations  that  spawned  the  bureaucratic  revolution  of  national  capi- 
talism (Hart,  Memory). 

Mainstream  economics  has  always  had  its  critics,  led  by  Karl  Polanyi  who, 
in  The  Great  Transformation,  developed  a line  of  attack  on  liberal  capitalism 
and  the  economists  that  proved  to  be  remarkably  durable  (Hann  and  Hart). 
For  him,  impersonal  markets  and  money  have  only  recently  displaced  more 
humane  institutional  arrangements  from  the  social  organisation  of  economy. 
These  were  society’s  way  of  ensuring  material  provisioning  for  its  members 
and  they  subjected  exchange  to  moral,  i.e.,  personal  considerations.  The  self- 
regulating market  dehumanised  exchange.  This  would  be  bad  enough  if  it  were 
limited  to  what  people  make,  like  hats  and  shoes;  but  the  market  principle 
was  extended  to  the  conditions  of  our  collective  existence  and  these  are  not 
consciously  made  by  human  beings — Nature,  Society  (in  the  form  of  Money), 
and  Humanity,  reduced  to  the  “fictitious  commodities”  of  land,  capital,  and 
labour.  Impersonal  markets  thus  threatened  human  survival  itself  and  inevita- 
bly provoked  a social  reaction  in  the  form  of  people’s  numerous  attempts  to 
restore  a measure  of  personal  and  collective  control  over  their  lives. 

Polanyi  later,  in  “The  Economy  as  Instituted  Process,”  modified  his  cri- 
tique to  a plea  for  a division  of  academic  labour  in  the  study  of  economies 
across  time  and  space,  reserving  for  economics  the  “formal”  study  of  capitalist 
markets  and  the  rest,  where  “substantive”  economy  of  the  non-capitalist  sort 
still  prevailed,  for  history,  anthropology,  and  sociology.  He  drew  on  the  exam- 
ples of  ancient  Greece  and  pre-colonial  West  Africa  to  show  the  historical  lim- 
its of  homo  economicus.  In  both  cases,  marketplaces  were  peripheral  and  rela- 
tions within  them  were  social  and  personal.  Money,  as  in  Bohannan’s  example 
of  the  Tiv  above,  was  largely  restricted  to  “special-purpose”  forms,  with  “gen- 
eral-purpose money”  being  associated  with  the  European  capitalist  powers. 
Although  he  did  not  use  the  term  often,  his  approach  has  subsequently  come 
to  be  identified  with  the  claim  that  the  economy  in  non-industrial  societies  is 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  211 

“embedded”  in  social  institutions  and  that  “the  great  transformation”  of  the 
nineteenth  century  consisted  in  the  self-regulating  market  becoming  “disem- 
bedded”  from  society.  The  idea  of  “embeddedness”  has  become  the  calling 
sign  of  all  those,  especially  economic  sociologists,  who  reject  the  impersonal 
model  of  money  and  markets  offered  by  mainstream  economics  (Beckert). 

Chief  of  these  is  Viviana  Zelizer,  whose  The  Social  Meaning  of  Money  takes 
the  fight  to  the  core  of  contemporary  capitalism,  the  United  States,  at  a time 
when  the  dollar’s  national  monopoly  was  being  forged,  the  decades  follow- 
ing the  civil  war.  The  dollar’s  chequered  history  is  a remarkable  story  in  itself 
(Weatherford  1 1 1-77),  but  Zelizer  shows  that  the  achievement  of  centralised 
control  over  money  had  to  overcome  a plethora  of  institutional  alternatives 
and  sustained  political  resistance.  Moreover,  even  when  the  idea  of  a single 
currency  had  been  more  or  less  accepted,  American  commerce  still  spawned 
parallel  currencies  in  the  form  of  trading  tokens  and  the  like,  as  a way  of 
dividing  the  market  through  particularistic  ties.  Her  main  finding,  however, 
is  that  people  in  general  refused  to  treat  the  impersonal  money  in  their  pos- 
session as  an  undifferentiated  thing,  choosing  rather  to  “earmark”  it  for  their 
own  purposes,  keeping  some  separate  for  paying  the  food  bills,  some  as  sav- 
ings for  a holiday,  and  so  on.  Her  focus  is  mainly  on  areas  that  remain  invis- 
ible to  economists’  commercial  gaze:  domestic  transactions,  gifts,  charities. 

Later  Zelizer  extended  this  perspective  to  other  social  currents  of  money  that 
largely  escape  statistical  monitoring,  such  as  migrant  remittances  to  regions 
like  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  (“Missing  Monies”).  There  is  an  intel- 
lectual industry  in  France  concerned  with  the  “boundaries”  placed  around 
money  by  people  and  institutions  (Blanc). 

There  can  be  little  dispute  that  people  everywhere  personalise  money, 
bending  it  to  their  own  purposes  and  devising  numerous  social  instruments 
to  do  so.  To  the  extent  that  the  functioning  of  money  and  markets  is  under- 
stood exclusively  in  terms  of  impersonal  models,  the  neglect  of  this  dimen- 
sion is  surely  significant.  But  institutionalist  critique  sometimes  comes  with  a 
claim  that  the  economists’  impersonal  approach  is  irrelevant  or  even  harmful 
to  human  interests.  The  economy  exists  at  a number  of  levels  and  not  just 
those  of  the  person,  the  family,  or  local  groups.  The  more  inclusive  levels  are 
made  possible  to  a substantial  degree  by  the  relative  impersonality  of  money 
and  markets.  It  will  not  do  to  replace  one  pole  of  a dialectical  pair  with  the 
other.  We  are  today  more  than  ever  aware  of  our  economic  interdependence 
in  a world  of  markets  and  money  that  has  been  increasingly  unified  by  a 


KEITH  HART 


212 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


digital  revolution  in  communications.  We  need  to  understand  this  emerging 
universe  of  virtual  abstraction  in  order  to  make  meaningful  connection  with 
it  f-rom  the  perspective  of  our  everyday  lives. 

Money  in  the  digital  revolution 

The  world  economy  is  being  transformed  once  more  by  radical  reductions  in 
the  cost  of  producing  a basic  commodity,  in  this  case  the  transfer  of  informa- 
tion. There  was  a time  when  commodities  traded  internationally  were  things 
extracted  from  the  ground  and  services  were  performed  locally  in  person. 

Now  the  person  answering  your  business  call  could  be  located  anywhere 
in  the  world  and  a growing  number  of  service  jobs  are  exposed  to  global 
competition.  Vast  profits  are  to  be  made  in  entertainment,  education,  the 
media,  finance,  software,  and  all  the  other  information  services.  But  the  digi- 
tal revolution  poses  specific  problems  for  accumulation.  The  saying  goes  that 
“information  wants  to  be  free,”  and  certainly  there  is  continuous  downward  | 

pressure  on  prices  in  this  sector  arising  from  the  ease  of  copying  proprietary  | 

products.  And  there  is  another  aspect  of  this  revolution  that  bears  directly  on  , 
the  relationship  between  the  personal  and  impersonal  dimensions  of  social 
life  (Hart,  Memory  Hit  Man^. 

The  cheapening  of  the  cost  of  information  transfers  has  considerable  con- 
sequence for  the  character  of  long-distance  market  relations.  The  era  of  mass 
production  and  consumption  may  be  ending  as  a result.  It  is  now  possible  to 
attach  to  transactions  at  distance  a lot  of  information  about  individuals.  For 
example,  amazon.com  keeps  a record  of  every  book  bought  from  them  and 
they  make  recommendations  for  new  purchases  on  this  basis.  This  is  similar 
to  the  small  bookseller  who  reserves  a book  for  a favourite  customer,  but  now 
it  all  takes  place  anonymously  at  distance.  Some  firms  are  already  moving 
towards  a system  known  as  Customer  Relations  Maintenance  (CRM)  based 
on  data  banks  that  know  no  limit  in  scope.  This  enables  them  to  target  buy- 
ers who  generate  above  average  revenues,  to  remind  them  of  the  need  to  buy 
something  for  their  wife’s  birthday  and  so  on.  Nowhere  has  this  process  gone 
further  than  in  the  market  for  personal  credit.  A generation  ago  only  one’s 
bank  manager  could  extend  personal  purchasing  power  through  making  an 
overdraft  available.  Now  the  number  and  variety  of  financial  instruments  on  « 
offer  is  growing  exponentially  and  these  are  often  customised  to  individual 
needs.  It  is  not  quite  the  same  as  ordering  a suit  from  Savile  Row  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  but  the  trend  is  definitely  to  restore  personal  identity  to 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  213 

what  were  until  not  long  ago  largely  impersonal  contracts.  Of  course,  power- 
ful organisations  have  access  to  huge  processors  with  which  to  manipulate  an 
often  unknowing  public,  and  rich  individuals  have  always  experienced  mar- 
kets and  money  as  personalities  in  their  own  right  (Hart,  “Persuasive  Power”). 

But  at  the  very  least,  for  many  people,  these  developments  have  introduced 
new  conditions  of  engagement  with  the  impersonal  economy.  What  matters 
is  to  recognise  that  the  line  between  personal  and  impersonal  society  is  shift- 
ing, with  significant  implications  for  individual  and  collective  agency. 

Twentieth-century  society  was  based  on  impersonal  economic  institutions 
that  made  most  people  feel  largely  powerless.  The  idea  is  now  slowly  taking 
root  that  society  is  less  an  oppressive  structure  out  there  and  more  a subjec- 
tive capacity  that  allows  each  of  us  to  learn  how  to  manage  our  relations  with 
others.  Money  is  a good  symbol  of  this  shift.  It  first  took  the  form  of  objects 
outside  ourselves  (coins)  of  which  we  usually  had  a greater  need  than  the 
available  supply,  but  of  late  it  has  increasingly  been  manifested  as  personal 
credit,  in  the  form  of  digitalised  transfers  mediated  by  plastic  cards  and  tele- 
phone wires,  thereby  altering  the  notions  of  economic  agency  that  we  bring 
to  participation  in  markets.  If  modern  society  has  always  been  supposed  to  be 
individualistic,  only  now  perhaps  is  the  individual  emerging  as  a social  force 
to  be  reckoned  with.  This  claim  rests  on  a single  overwhelming  fact,  that  large 
amounts  of  information  concerning  the  individuals  involved  in  economic 
transactions  can  now  be  processed  cheaply  at  any  distance,  thereby  making 
possible  the  repersonalisation  of  complex  economic  life.  In  the  process,  the 
assumptions  that  supported  mass  society  for  a century  are  being  undermined. 

To  speak  of  “repersonalisation”  is  probably  misleading,  since  society 
and  the  individual,  the  impersonal  and  the  personal,  are  equally  necessary 
to  human  existence,  and  working  out  specific  ways  of  combining  them  is 
durably  problematic.  We  have  to  take  society  as  it  comes,  but  we  can  also 
try  to  make  it.  If  repersonalisation  means  the  declining  effectiveness  of  the 
bureaucratic  powers  with  which  we  are  familiar,  it  also  opens  the  way  perhaps 
to  a new  feudalism  (Hart,  Hit  Man^.  That  is  why  we  should  not  think  of  the 
present  as  a shift  from  the  impersonal  to  the  personal  but  rather  as  a change 
affecting  the  construction  of  the  relationship  between  the  two.  If  economy 
in  the  twentieth  century  became  more  impersonal,  responding  in  part  to  the 
increased  scale  and  complexity  of  exchange,  this  does  not  mean,  as  we  have 
seen,  that  the  personal  basis  of  economic  relations  has  been  displaced,  nor 
indeed  that  the  dialectic  of  individual  and  collective  agency  was  ever  absent 


KEITH  HART 


214 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


from  societies  in  which  modern  money  and  markets  were  traditionally  mar- 
ginal. Economic  history  is  dialectical.  Most  people  are  quite  anxious  about 
being  economically  dependent  on  impersonal  and  anonymous  institutions. 
This  is  an  immense  force  for  reversing  the  historical  pattern  of  alienation 
on  which  the  modern  economy  has  been  built.  Consequently,  any  renewed 
emphasis  on  human  personality  and  concrete  social  relations  in  economic 
life  must  go  hand  in  hand  with  the  search  for  forms  of  impersonal  society 
appropriate  to  such  a goal. 

Conclusion:  What  is  money? 

What  then  is  money?  All  the  textbooks  give  the  same  definitions:  it  is  a means 
of  payment;  a unit  of  account;  a standard  of  value;  a store  of  wealth  (Bannock 
et  ak;  Foley).  These  conventions  do  not  capture  the  most  important  feature 
of  money,  its  evolution  as  a means  of  human  interaction  in  society.  Money 
is  made  by  us,  but  for  most  people  it  has  long  been  something  scarce  that  we 
take  passively  whenever  possible,  without  any  sense  of  its  being  our  collective 
creation.  From  having  been  an  object  produced  by  remote  authorities,  it  is 
becoming  more  obviously  a subjective  expression  of  our  own  will;  this  devel-  | 
opment  is  mirrored  in  the  shift  from  “real”  to  “virtual”  money.  In  the  last  300  ! 

years  or  so,  the  money  form  has  evolved  from  metallic  coins  and  ledger  entries 
through  paper  notes  to  electronic  digits.  In  the  process,  money  is  becoming  ; 
dematerialised,  losing  any  shred  of  a claim  that  it  is  founded  on  the  natural 
scarcity  of  precious  metals.  Even  the  authority  of  states,  which  stamped  coin-  ' 

age  and  issued  the  notes  with  which  we  are  still  most  familiar  as  money,  cannot  | 

long  survive  the  electronic  blizzard  that  is  money  in  the  age  of  the  internet.  j 

Money  is  a universal  measure  of  value,  but  its  specific  form  is  not  yet  as  | 

universal  as  the  method  humanity  has  devised  to  measure  time  all  round  the  j 

world.  It  is  purchasing  power,  a means  of  buying  and  selling  in  markets.  It  | 

counts  wealth  and  status.  It  is  a store  of  memory  linking  individuals  to  their  ; 

various  communities,  a kind  of  memory  bank  (Hart,  Memory),  and  thus  a i 

source  of  identity.  As  a symbolic  medium,  it  conveys  information  through  a I 

system  of  signs  that  relies  more  on  numbers  than  words.  A lot  more  circulates  j 

with  money  than  the  goods  and  services  it  buys.  Money’s  significance  lies  in 
the  synthesis  it  promotes  of  impersonal  abstraction  and  personal  meaning,  ♦ 
objectification  and  subjectivity,  analytical  reason  and  synthetic  narrative.  Its 
social  power  comes  from  the  fluency  of  its  mediation  between  infinite  poten-  j 
tial  and  finite  determination  (Hart,  “Persuasive  Power”).  i 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


215 


In  The  Memory  Bank,  I sketched  a possible  scenario  of  financial  history 
that  leads  from  state-made  money  to  greater  reliance  on  personal  credit.  This 
does  entail,  to  a degree,  a repersonalisation  of  economic  life,  as  exchange 
absorbs  more  and  more  information  about  persons.  Plastic  credit  cards  are 
just  the  first  step  in  this  process.  But  if  this  could  be  represented  as  a step 
towards  greater  humanism  in  economy,  we  need  to  recognise  also  that  it 
entails  increased  dependence  on  the  impersonal  organisation  of  governments 
and  corporations,  on  impersonal  abstraction  of  the  sort  associated  with  the 
computing  operations  and  on  the  need  for  impersonal  standards  and  social 
guarantees  for  contractual  exchange  of  wide  scope.  If  persons  are  to  make  a 
comeback  in  the  post-modern  economy,  it  will  not  be  on  a face-to-face  basis, 
but  as  bits  on  a screen  that  sometimes  materialise  as  living  people  in  the 
present.  In  the  process  we  may  become  less  weighed  down  by  the  concept 
of  money  as  an  objective  force,  more  open  to  the  idea  that  it  is  simply  a way 
of  keeping  track  of  complex  social  networks  that  we  each  generate  as  active 
individual  subjects.  This  should  give  reason  for  optimism  that  money  could 
once  again  take  a wide  variety  of  forms  compatible  with  both  personal  agency 
and  human  interdependence  at  every  level  from  the  local  to  the  global.  But  we 
should  not  imagine  that  such  a process  is  likely  to  be  achieved  soon  or  easily. 

Marcel  Mauss  was  far-sighted  when  he  sought  to  trace  the  foundations  of 
the  modern  economy  to  its  origin  in  the  archaic  gift,  rather  than  in  primitive 
barter  as  the  liberal  myth  holds.  The  idea  of  money  as  personal  credit,  linked 
less  to  the  history  of  state  coinage  than  to  the  acknowledgement  of  private 
debts,  is  consistent  both  with  Mauss’s  emphasis  and  with  my  argument  here. 
If  the  meaning  of  money  lies  in  the  myriad  acts  of  remembering  that  link 
individuals  to  their  communities  (Hart,  Memory),  the  need  to  keep  track  of 
proliferating  connections  with  others  is  enabled  by  money  in  its  many  forms 
as  the  principal  instrument  of  collective  memory.  To  an  increasing  extent,  it 
will  be  possible  for  people  to  enter  circuits  of  exchange  based  on  voluntary 
association  and  defined  by  special  currencies  of  the  sort  pioneered  in  LETS 
schemes  (Blanc).  At  the  other  extreme,  we  will  participate  as  individuals  in 
global  markets  of  infinite  scope,  using  international  moneys-of-account,  such 
as  the  dollar  and  euro,  electronic  payment  systems  of  various  sorts,  or  even 
direct  barter  via  the  internet.  In  many  ways,  it  will  be  a world  whose  plurality 
of  association,  even  fragmentation,  will  resemble  feudalism  more  than  the 
Roman  empire.  This  is  an  unsettling  prospect,  for  who  would  want  to  be  prey 
to  personal  rule  by  gangsters  unrestrained  by  impersonal  law?  That  is  why  we 


KEITH  HART 


216 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


urgently  need  to  harness  the  potential  of  current  economic  trends  to  develop 
more  effective  impersonal  institutions  (“the  state”)  at  the  level  of  world  soci- 
ety as  well  as  below  (Frankman;  Robotham).  In  money’s  potential  to  sustain 
universal  connection  lies  one  indispensable  means  to  that  end,  but  this  will 
not  be  realised  if  it  retains  its  modern  form. 

We  live  in  a rapidly  urbanizing  world  of  great  complexity  and  increasing 
connection  whose  affairs  cannot  be  managed  by  means  of  handouts,  either  on 
a bureaucratic  or  on  a customary  basis.  Apart  from  the  obvious  issue  of  hier- 
archy entailed  in  this  method,  people  will  expect  to  use  any  economic  free- 
dom they  win  for  themselves  to  calculate  the  costs  and  benefits  of  the  many 
contracts  they  enter  into  in  the  course  of  normal  daily  life.  We  cannot  afford 
to  oppose  collective  and  individual  solutions  to  our  common  human  dilem- 
mas. If  I turn  to  markets  and  money  as  a focus  for  social  reform,  it  is  because, 
by  emphasizing  the  means  of  extending  social  credit  to  responsible  persons, 
we  may  be  able  to  address  more  effectively  the  causes  and  remedies  of  what 
makes  contemporary  society  so  unequal.  The  sociologists,  anthropologists, 
and  alternative  economists  will  not  get  far  by  harping  on  about  how  people 
already  impose  personal  and  social  controls  over  money  and  exchange.  That 
is  the  everyday  world  as  most  of  us  know  it.  We  need  ways  of  reaching  the 
parts  we  don’t  know  and  of  averting  the  ruin  they  could  bring  down  on  us  all. 

It  is  relatively  easy  to  debunk  religion,  but  to  understand  its  social  force 
one  has  to  enter  the  minds  of  believers.  Searching  for  the  significance  of 
money  or  for  its  wider  social  meaning  is  like  asking  why  anyone  would  believe 
in  God.  Of  course  we  made  Fiim  up,  just  as  we  made  and  make  Money  up. 

We  believe  because  we  have  to — and  faith  is  the  glue  sticking  past  and  future 
together  in  the  present.  Since  our  ephemeral  economic  transactions  depend 
on  using  money,  it  seems  to  be  more  stable  than  the  relations  it  expresses, 
even  though  at  heart  we  know  it  isn’t.  Whether  we  like  it  or  not,  money  is 
the  ocean  we  swim  in  these  days.  Despite  or  because  of  this,  its  role  in  human 
affairs  continues  to  be  demonised  and  the  attempt  to  return  it  to  the  marginal 
role  it  was  confined  to  in  agrarian  civilisations  (Polanyi,  Great  Transforma- 
tion) always  finds  a ready  audience.  Money  surely  generates  value  and  signifi- 
cance in  human  interactions  as  much  as  it  erodes  them.  It  is  a symbol  of  each 
person’s  relationship  to  society.  This  relationship  may  be  conceived  of  as  a * 
durable  ground  on  which  to  stand,  anchoring  identity  in  a collective  memory 
whose  concrete  symbol  is  money;  or  it  may  be  viewed  as  the  outcome  of  a 
more  creative  process  in  which  we  each  generate  the  personal  credit  linking  us 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


217 


to  society  (Simmel).  The  second  view  requires  us  to  abandon  the  notion  that 
society  rests  on  abstract  grounds  more  solid  than  the  transient  exchanges  we 
participate  in.  Few  people  at  present  are  prepared  to  take  that  step.  When  the 
meaning  of  money  is  seen  to  be  what  each  of  us  makes  of  it,  we  may  be  less 
inclined  to  think  of  Money  as  the  somewhat  archaic  God  of  capitalism  that 
it  has  become. 

i 

! 

i Works  Cited 

Aglietta,  M.,  and  A.  Orlean.  La  monnaie  souveraine.  Paris:  Odile  Jacob,  1998.  Print. 

Bannock,  G.,  R.  Baxter,  and  E.  Davies.  The  Penguin  Dictionary  of  Economics.  3rd  ed. 
Harmonsworth:  Penguin,  1984.  Print. 

Beckert,  J.  “The  Great  Transformation  of  Embeddedness:  Karl  Polanyi  and  the  New  Economic 
Sociology.”  Market  and  Society:  The  Great  Transformation  Today.  Gambridge:  Cambridge 
UP,  2009.  38-55.  Print. 

Blanc,  J.,  ed.  Exclusion  et  liens  financiers — monnaies  sociales:  rapport  2005-2006.  Paris: 
Economica,  2006.  Print. 

Bohannan,  P.  “The  Impact  of  Money  on  an  African  Subsistence  Economy T Journal  of  Economic 
History  19  (1959):  491-503.  Print. 

. “Some  Principles  of  Exchange  and  Investment  among  the  Tiv  of  Central  Nigeria.” 

American  Anthropologist  51  (1955):  60-70.  Print. 

De  Roover,  R.  Money,  Banking  and  Credit  in  Medieval  Bruges:  Italian  Merchant-Bankers, 
Lombards  and  Money-Changers:  A Study  in  the  Origins  of  Banking.  London:  Routledge, 
1999.  Print. 

De  Tocqueville,  A.  The  Old  Regime  and  the  Trench  Revolution.  New  York:  Doubleday,  1955. 
Print. 

Durkheim,  E.  The  Division  of  Labor  in  Society.  Glencoe,  IL:  Free  Press,  1960.  Print. 

. The  Elementary  Eorms  of  the  Religious  Life.  Glencoe,  IL:  Free  Press,  1965.  Print. 

Foley,  D.  “Money  in  Economic  Activity.”  New  Palgrave  Dictionary  of  Economic  Theory  and 
Doctrine.  Vol.  3.  London:  Macmillan,  1987.  519-525.  Print. 

Frankman,  M.  World  Democratic  Eederalism:  Peace  and  Justice  Indivisible.  London:  Palgrave, 
2004.  Print. 

Geertz,  C.  Peddlers  and  Princes.  Chicago:  U of  Chicago  P,  1963.  Print. 

Geertz,  C.,  H.  Geertz,  and  L.  Rosen.  “The  Suq."  Meaning  and  Order  in  Moroccan  Society. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  UP,  1979.  Print. 

Guyer,  J.  Marginal  Gains:  Monetary  Transactions  in  Atlantic  Africa.  Chicago:  U of  Chicago  P, 
2004.  Print. 

Hann,  C.,  and  K.  Hart,  eds.  Market  and  Society:  The  Great  Transformation  Today.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  UP,  2009.  Print. 

Hart,  K.  “Heads  or  Tails?  Two  Sides  of  the  Coin.”  Manll  (Dec.  1986):  637-56.  Print. 

. The  Hit  Mans  Dilemma:  Or  Business,  Personal  and  Impersonal  Chicago:  Prickly 

Paradigm,  2005.  Print. 


KEITH  HART 


218 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


. “Kinship,  Contract  and  Trust:  The  Economic  Organization  of  Migrants  in  an  African 

city  Slum.”  Trust:  Making  and  Breaking  Co-operative  Relations.  Oxford:  Blackwell,  1988. 
176-193.  Print. 

. “Marcel  Mauss:  In  Pursuit  of  the  Whole.”  Comparative  Studies  in  Society  and  History 

49.2  (Apr.  2007):  1-13.  Print. 

. The  Memory  Bank.  London:  Profile,  2000.  Print.  (Republished  as  Money  in  an  Unequal 

World  New  York  and  London:  Texere,  2001.  Print.) 

. “The  Persuasive  Power  of  Money.”  Economic  Persuasions.  New  York:  Berghahn,  2009. 

136-158.  Print. 

Keynes,  J.  M.  A Treatise  on  Money.  2 vols.  London:  Macmillan,  1930.  Print. 

Malinowski,  B.  “Primitive  Currency.”  Economic  Journal  M (1921):  1—16.  Print. 

Marshall,  A.  Principles  of  Economics.  London:  Macmillan,  1979.  Print. 

Marx,  K.  Capital:  The  Critique  of  Political  Economy.  Vol.  1.  London:  Lawrence  and  Wishart, 
1970.  Print. 

Mauss,  M.  Ecrits politiques.  Paris:  Fayard,  1997.  Print. 

. “Essai  sur  le  don:  forme  et  raison  de  I’echange  dans  les  societes  archaiques.”  Sociologie  et 

anthropologic.  Paris:  Presses  Universitaires  de  France,  1950.  143-279.  Print. 

. The  Gift:  Eorm  and  Reason  for  Exchange  in  Archaic  Societies.  London:  Routledge,  1 990. 

Print. 

Parry,  J.,  and  M.  Bloch,  eds.  Money  and  the  Morality  of  Exchange.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  UP, 
1989.  Print. 

Polanyi,  K.  “The  Economy  as  Instituted  Process.”  Trade  and  Market  in  the  Early  Empires. 
Glencoe,  IL:  Free  Press,  1957.  Print. 

. The  Great  Transformation:  The  Political  and  Economic  Origins  of  Our  Times.  Boston: 

Beacon,  1944.  Print. 

Rappaport,  R.  Ritual  and  Religion  in  the  Making  of  Humanity.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  UP, 
1999.  Print. 

Robotham,  D.  Culture,  Society  and  Economy:  Bringing  Production  Back  In.  London:  Sage,  2005. 
Print. 

Sigaud,  L.  “The  Vicissitudes  of  The  Gift."  Social  Anthropology  10.3  (2002):  335-358.  Print. 
Simmel,  G.  The  Philosophy  of  Money.  London:  Routledge,  1978.  Print. 

Smith,  A.  An  Inquiry  into  the  Nature  and  Causes  of  the  Wealth  of  Nations.  London:  Methuen, 
1961.  Print. 

Weatherford,  J.  The  History  of  Money.  New  York:  Three  Rivers,  1997.  Print. 

Weber,  M.  General  Economic  History.  New  Brunswick,  NJ:  Transaction  Books,  1981.  Print. 

Zelizer,  V.  “Missing  Monies:  Comment  on  Nigel  Dodd’s  ‘Reinventing  Monies  in  Europe.’” 
Economy  and  Society  I> A. A (2005):  584-588.  Print. 

. The  Social  Meaning  of  Money.  New  York:  Basic,  1994.  Print. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  219 

Keith  Hart  is  professor  of  anthropology  emeritus  at  Goldsmiths  University  of  London 
and  honorary  professor  of  development  studies  at  the  University  of  Kwazulu-Natal, 

Durban  and  of  Social  Anthropology  at  the  University  of  Pretoria.  He  is  the  author  of  The 
Memory  Bank:  Money  in  an  Unequal  World  (2000),  The  Hit  Mans  Dilemma:  Or  Business, 

Personal  and  Impersonal  (2005),  and  (with  Chris  Hann)  of  Economic  Anthropology:  History, 
Ethnography,  Critique  (201 1).  He  founded  the  Open  Anthropology  Cooperative  and  his 
blog  is  at  www.thememorybank.co.uk.  He  is  co-editor  of  Market  and  Society:  The  Great 
Transformation  Today  (2009)  and  The  Human  Economy:  A Citizens  Guide  (2010).  Email: 
keith@thememorybank.co.uk 


KEITH  HART 


Short  Essays,  Short  Stories,  and  Poems 


1 


From  the  Stones  of  David  to  the  Tanks  of  Goliath 


Jose  Saramago 
Translated  and  introduced  by 
George  Monteiro 


[Among  other  worthy  purposes,  receiving  the  Nobel  Prize  for  Literature  in 
1998  served  to  increase  multifold  the  novelist  Jose  Saramago’s  audience  for 
his  straightforward,  bully-pulpit  commentary  on  world  affairs  and  problems. 
It  was  in  recognition  of  his  serious  concerns  for  the  inhumane  treatment  of 
peoples  that  he  was  invited  to  visit  Palestine.  In  March  2002,  he  published  an 
essay  in  El  Pats^  “De  las  piedras  de  David  a los  tanques  de  Goliat,”  in  which 
he  excoriated  the  Israeli  nation — its  army  was  then  blockading  the  Palestin- 
ian city — for  forgetting  or  dismissing  what  their  people  had  suffered  in  the 
concentration  camps.  Saramago’s  essay,  which  immediately  raised  an  inter- 
national furor,  has  had,  and  continues  to  have,  a polemical  life.  The  English 
translation,  published  for  the  first  time  in  these  pages,  was  done  shortly  after 
Saramago’s  essay  was  published  in  El  Pals. — G.  M.] 


Some  authorities  in  biblical  matters  affirm  that  the  First  Book  of  Samuel  was 
written  either  in  the  time  of  Solomon  or  in  the  period  immediately  following 
it,  in  any  case,  before  the  Babylonian  captivity.  Other  scholars,  no  less  com- 
petent, argue  that  not  only  the  First  but  the  Second  Book  of  Samuel  as  well 
were  reworked  after  the  Babylonian  exile,  their  composition  being  in  obedi- 
ence to  that  which  is  called  for  by  the  historical-political-religious  structure 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  223-226. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


224 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


of  the  deuteronomist  scheme,  which  is,  successively,  God’s  alliance  with  his 
people,  the  people’s  infidelity,  God’s  punishment,  the  people’s  supplication, 
and  God’s  forgiveness.  If  this  venerable  work  of  scripture  dates  from  the  time 
of  Solomon,  we  can  say  that  to  date  there  has  passed  over  it,  in  round  num- 
bers, some  three  thousand  years.  If  the  work  of  its  redactors  was  done  after  the 
Jews  returned  from  exile,  then  some  five  hundred  years,  give  or  take  a month, 
can  be  subtracted  from  that  number. 

My  preoccupation  with  temporal  rigor  has  as  its  only  purpose  the  putting 
before  my  reader’s  comprehension  the  idea  that  this  famous  biblical  legend  of 
the  combat  (which,  by  the  way,  never  took  place)  between  the  small  shepherd 
David  and  the  Philistine  giant  Goliath,  told  to  children  for  at  least  twenty- 
five  or  thirty  centuries,  has  been  told  badly.  Over  that  length  of  time,  parties 
with  different  interests  in  the  matter  have  created — with  the  uncritical  assent 
of  more  than  a hundred  generations  of  believers,  including  Christians  no  less 
than  Hebrews — a deceptive  mystification  of  inequality  in  force  separating  the 
fair  and  delicate  David’s  fragile  physical  complexion  from  the  bestial  Goliath’s 
four  meters  of  stature.  Such  inequality,  enormous  in  all  its  appearances,  was 
compensated  for,  and  soon  overturned  in  favor  of  the  Israelite,  because  David 
was  an  astute  little  boy  and  Goliath  but  a stupid  mound  of  flesh.  So  astute 
was  David  that  before  going  out  to  confront  the  Philistine  he  scooped  up  five 
smooth  stones  from  alongside  a nearby  brook,  which  he  put  into  his  bag,  and 
so  stupid  was  the  other  one  that  he  didn’t  notice  that  David  had  armed  him- 
self with  a pistol.  But  it  was  not  a pistol,  lovers  of  sovereign  mythical  truths 
will  protest  indignantly,  it  was  simply  a sling,  a poor  shepherd’s  sling,  like  the 
one  that  had  been  used  since  time  immemorial  by  the  slaves  of  Abraham  who 
led  and  looked  after  cattle.  Yes,  in  fact  it  did  not  look  like  a pistol;  it  had  no 
barrel,  stock  or  butt,  no  trigger,  no  cartridges.  What  it  did  have  was  two  slen- 
der resilient  cords  tied  at  their  ends  to  a small  piece  of  flexible  leather,  into  the 
pocket  of  which  the  expert  hand  of  David  placed  the  stone  that,  from  a dis- 
tance, was  hurled,  rapid  and  powerful  as  a bullet,  at  Goliath’s  head,  dropping 
him,  and  putting  him  at  the  mercy  of  the  point  of  his  own  sword,  already  in 
the  fist  of  the  dexterous  slinger.  It  was  not  because  he  was  the  more  astute  that 
the  Israelite  succeeded  in  killing  the  Philistine,  giving  victory  to  the  army  of 
Samuel  and  the  living  God;  it  was  simply  because  he  carried  with  him  a long- 
range  weapon  that  he  knew  how  to  use.  Historical  truth,  modest  and  not  at 
all  imaginative,  contents  itself  with  teaching  us  that  Goliath  didn’t  even  have 
a chance  to  put  his  hands  on  David.  Mythic  truth,  an  eminent  fabricator  of 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  225 

fantasies,  has  soothed  us  for  thirty  centuries  with  the  marvelous  tale  of  the 
small  shepherd’s  triumph  over  the  bestial  giant  of  a warrior,  to  whom,  finally, 
his  heavy  bronze  helmet,  cuirass,  leggings,  and  shield  are  of  no  use.  Such  is 
it  that  we  are  authorized  to  conclude  from  this  edifying  episode  as  it  unfolds 
that  David,  in  the  many  battles  that  made  him  King  of  Judah  and  Jerusalem 
and  that  extended  his  power  to  the  right  bank  of  the  Euphrates,  never  again 
resorted  to  sling  or  rocks. 

Nor  does  he  use  them  now.  Over  the  last  fifty  years  David  has  grown  to 
such  a point  in  strength  and  size  that  between  him  and  the  haughty  Goliath  it 
is  no  longer  possible  to  see  any  difference;  it  might  even  be  said,  without  insult- 
ing the  obfuscating  clarity  of  the  facts,  that  he  has  turned  into  a new  Goliath. 

For  David,  today,  is  Goliath,  but  a Goliath  who  has  left  off  bearing  heavy  and 
finally  ineffective  weapons  made  of  bronze.  The  fair  David  of  yore  crosses 
over  occupied  Palestine  territory  in  helicopters  that  discharge  missiles  against 
defenseless  targets;  the  delicate  David  of  yore  mans  the  world’s  most  powerful 
tanks,  smashing  and  shattering  everything  in  their  way;  the  lyrical  David  who 
sang  songs  of  praise  to  Bath  Sheba,  embodied  now  in  the  gargantuan  figure 
of  that  war  criminal  called  Ariel  Sharon,  issues  the  “poetic”  message  that  it 
is  necessary  first  to  smash  the  Palestinians  before  negotiating  with  what  then 
will  be  left  of  them.  In  a word,  this,  since  1948,  with  slight  variations  that  are 
merely  tactical,  has  been  Israel’s  political  strategy.  Mentally  intoxicated  with 
the  messianic  ideal  of  a Great  Israel  that  will  at  last  realize  the  expansionist 
dreams  of  the  most  radical  Zionists;  contaminated  by  the  monstrous,  rooted 
“certainty”  that  in  this  catastrophic  and  absurd  world  there  exists  one  people 
chosen  by  God,  to  whom,  therefore,  it  is  automatically  justified  and  autho- 
rized, in  the  name  as  well  of  past  horrors  and  present  fears,  to  take  any  and  all 
actions  stemming  from  an  obsessive  racism  that  is  psychologically  and  patho- 
logically exclusivist;  trained  and  schooled  in  the  idea  that  no  matter  what 
suffering  they  have  inflicted,  do  inflict,  or  will  inflict  on  others,  particularly 
the  Palestinians,  it  will  still  fall  short  of  their  suffering  in  the  Holocaust,  they 
scratch  interminably  at  their  own  wounds  so  as  to  keep  them  forever  bleed- 
ing, making  it  impossible  for  them  to  heal,  and  show  them  forth  to  the  world 
like  flags.  Israel  has  made  its  own  the  terrible  words  of  Deuteronomy:  “To  me 
belongeth  vengeance  and  recompense.”  Israel  wants  us  to  feel  blame — all  of 
us,  directly  or  indirectly — for  the  horrors  of  the  Holocaust;  Israel  wants  us  to 
renounce  our  most  elementary  critical  intelligence  and  transform  ourselves 
docilely  into  an  echo  of  its  will;  Israel  wants  us  to  recognize  de  jure  what  for 


JOSE  SARAMAGO 


226 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


its  people  already  exists  de  facto:  absolute  impunity.  From  the  point  of  view 
of  its  people,  Israel  can  never  be  brought  to  judgment,  its  people  having  once 
been  tortured,  gassed,  and  incinerated  in  Auschwitz.  I ask  myself  if  those  Jews 
who  died  in  the  Nazi  concentration  camps,  those  Jews  who  were  persecuted 
throughout  History,  those  Jews  who  were  murdered  in  pogroms,  those  Jews 
who  rotted  away  in  the  ghettos — I ask  myself  if  that  immense  multitude  of 
unfortunates  would  not  feel  shame  at  the  infamous  acts  committed  by  their 
descendants.  I ask  myself  if  their  having  suffered  so  much  might  not  be  the 
best  reason  for  their  ceasing  to  cause  so  much  suffering  to  others. 

David’s  stones  have  changed  hands;  now  it’s  the  Palestinians  who  throw 
them.  Goliath  is  on  the  other  side,  armed  and  equipped  as  no  other  soldier 
has  ever  been  in  the  history  of  warfare,  save,  of  course,  for  his  North  Ameri- 
can friend.  Ah,  yes,  there  is  the  horrendous  killing  of  civilians  brought  about 
by  the  so-called  terrorist-suicides....  Horrendous,  yes,  without  a doubt;  con- 
demnable,  yes,  without  a doubt;  but  Israel  still  has  much  to  learn  if  it  finds 
itself  incapable  of  understanding  the  reasons  that  can  bring  human  beings  to 
transform  themselves  into  bombs. 


Jose  Saramago  (1922—2010)  was  the  celebrated  author  of,  among  other  novels,  Baltasar 
and  Blimunda  and  Blindness.  He  was  the  recipient  of  the  Nobel  Prize  in  Literature  (1998). 
Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  6,  On  Saramago,  guest  edited  by  Anna  Klobucka, 
was  devoted  to  his  work. 

George  Monteiro  is  professor  emeritus  of  English  and  of  Portuguese  and  Brazilian 
studies  at  Brown  University.  Among  his  books  and  editions  are  Robert  Frost  & the  New 
England  Renaissance,  The  Correspondence  of  Henry  James  and  Henry  Adams,  The  Presence  of 
Camoes,  Stephen  Crane's  Blue  Badge  of  Courage,  The  Presence  ofPessoa,  Fernando  Pessoa  and 
Nineteenth-Century  Anglo-American  Literature,  Conversations  with  Elizabeth  Bishop,  and 
Stephen  Crane:  The  Contemporary  Reviews.  In  press  are  Love  and  Fame  in  Fernando  Pessoa: 
Five  Chapters  and  Elizabeth  Bishop:  Brazil  & Elsewhere. 


Do  imemorial  ou  a danga  do  tempo 


Eduardo  Lourengo 


Durante  tres  seculos,  sem  desfalecimento,  o homem  ocidental  tomou  de 
assalto  o barco  em  que  ate  entao  tinha  seguido  pilotado  pela  Providencia.  Fe-lo 
em  nome  da  Humanidade,  como  o D.  Joao  de  Moliere.  De  uma  Humanidade 
capaz  de  se  dirigir  sozinha,  nao  para  o paraiso  de  onde  se  supusera  expulsa, 
mas  para  um  futuro  cada  vez  mais  liberto  dos  medos,  das  opressoes,  dos  males 
que  desde  a chamada  noite  dos  tempos  se  infligiu  a si  mesma. 

Nunca  houve  outro  ator  do  seu  destino  que  ela  propria,  mas  as  mascaras 
que  inventou  para  endossar  a Outrem  a sua  responsabilidade,  nao  so  fazem 
parte  desse  destino,  como  sao  a unica  leitura  dela  que  o ilumina.  O que  fomos 
com  essas  mascaras,  deuses,  demonios,  anjos,  Deus,  quando  esse  destino  tinha 
um  sentido  que  se  confundia  com  o proprio  existir,  esta  tao  vivo  hoje,  que  as 
perdemos  ou  rejeitamos,  como  sempre  esteve. 

O tempo  da  “Humanidade”  que  nao  foi  tao  humano  como  o sonharamos, 
ja  estava  esgotado  quando  o seculo  XX  acabou.  Tempo  da  razao,  tempo  do 
progresso,  tempo  da  historia  a si  mesma  transparente,  tempo  da  utopia  com 
fim  plausi'vel,  nao  recebia  so  de  si  mesmo  a sua  faustica  energia,  mas  daquele 


Nota  do  editor.  Este  ensaio  foi  publicado  em  ingles  como  “The  Dance  of  Time”  em  Eduardo 
Louren^o,  Chaos  and  Splendor  & Other  Essays.  Ed.  Carlos  Veloso.  Dartmouth,  MA:  University 
of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth  [Center  for  Portuguese  Studies  and  Culture],  2002.  173-178. 
Impresso. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  I'SllA  (2012):  227-232. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


228 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


tempo  que  com  tanta  determina^ao  recusava.  Quando  o dispensou  e parecia 
que  lamos  entrar,  de  olhos  bem  abertos,  naquele  espa^o  que  desde  Platao  des- 
ignamos  como  o da  plena  claridade,  por  oposi^ao  as  aparencias,  descobrimos 
qtie  o novo  tempo,  este  nosso,  e precisamente  o da  caverna.  De  uma  caverna 
perpetLiamente  iluminada,  mais  fascinante  que  todos  os  ceus  supostos,  o dos 
detises  ou  o da  razao.  O antigo  tempo  do  ser  transcendente,  natural  ou  sim- 
bolico,  converteu-se  em  tempo  da  aparencia  e nela  esta  encerrado.  Neste  novo 
tempo  sem  raiz  alguma  no  memorial  onde  todos  os  antigos  tempos  repousa- 
vam,  podemos  reciclar,  como  meros  tempos  virtuais,  todos  os  passados  que 
sem  memoria  nao  sao  tempo  de  ninguem. 

E nos,  de  quern  somos  o tempo,  neste  comedo  de  um  terceiro  milenio 
ainda  de  evoca^ao  crista,  pelo  menos  no  Ocidente?  Anjos  definitivamente 
caidos  e quase  contentes  de  nos  ter  libertado  da  tutela  de  um  deus  que  nunca 
prometeu  vir,  nem  mesmo  existir,  para  nos  tirar  dos  ombros  o peso  de  uma 
liberdade  imaginaria  e do  cora^ao  um  sonho  de  felicidade  nao  menos  imag- 
inaria?  Ou  meros  animais,  como  os  evocados  num  texto  cdebre  de  Ernst 
Jiinger,  que  desde  ha  milhares  de  anos  estao  inventando  Deus  por  ser  mais 
facil  que  suportar  a ideia  de  que  nunca  serao  mais  do  que  simples  homens  que 
se  creem  deuses? 

De  uma  maneira,  ate  hoje  inedita,  pelo  seu  excesso,  nao  sabemos  quern 
somos,  nem  onde  estamos.  Ao  menos  nos,  ocidentais  que  tmhamos  a pre- 
tensao  de  o saber  e para  isso  inventamos  todos  os  romances  sobre  as  origens 
e outros  mais  brumosos  sobre  um  impensavel  fim.  Sem  diivida  que  sabemos 
mais  que  todas  as  gera^oes  passadas  sobre  essa  origem  e que  o futuro  e tao 
inimaginavel  como  o foi  sempre.  Talvez  por  isso  estejamos  parados  no  meio  de 
um  cosmos  de  que  desvendamos  quase  todos  os  misterios,  salvo  os  nossos  de 
passageiros  em  transito  para  lado  algum  realmente  pensavel,  salvo  como  apoc- 
alipse  domesticado,  como  em  “Independence  Day.”  Mesmo  a Morte  perdeu  a 
sua  fun^ao  de  espelho  onde  de  uma  vez  para  sempre  tmhamos  aprendido  que 
eramos  mortals  sem  nos  resignar  a sAlo.  Nada  e mais  novo  neste  comedo  de 
milenio  que  este  sentimento  de  ja  nao  termos  uma  morte  credivel — colectiva 
ou  individual — depois  de  a ter  tido  tanto  e em  fun<;ao  dela  termos  inventado 
os  deuses.  E,  depois  da  sua  glosada  fuga,  a Arte  com  que  douramos  a sua  aus- 
encia.  A sua  definitiva  ausencia.  Nao  e por  acaso  que  nos  ecras  onde  vivemos 
a nossa  vida  simbolicamente  imortal  ha  tanta  morte.  Ou  antes,  tanto  morto 
sem  morte.  Um  morto  com  morte,  a maneira  antiga,  uma  morte  onde  se 
morria  ou  no  silencio  oco  do  cora^ao  ou  na  pra^a  publica,  como  se  um  deus 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  229 

acabasse  de  desaparecer,  e um  luxo  reservado  a poucos.  Digamos,  aos  Ken- 
nedys,  ou  Marylins,  figuras  recorrentes  do  poder  e da  gra^a. 

Somos  anonimamente  imortais,  mas  sem  aquela  inocencia  que  parece  ter 
sido  a nossa  quando  eramos  historicamente  e naturalmente  pagaos,  como  os 
gregos  e os  romanos  de  outrora.  Foi  neste  tempo  sem  morte  propria  que  nos 
entramos  sem  sequer  nos  darmos  conta  disso.  E esta  uma  das  leituras  do  tao 
falado  “fim  da  historia,”  em  todo  o caso  da  que  foi  a nossa,  ate  que  os  relogios 
onde  liamos  um  destino  com  rosto  ainda  humano  pararam  ao  mesmo  tempo, 
numa  aldeia  da  Polonia  e numa  cidade  do  Japao.  Este  acontecimento  nao  foi 
como  a batalha  de  Waterloo  ou  a inven^ao  da  maquina  a vapor,  um  momento 
de  historia  e da  Historia,  mas  uma  outra  especie  de  tempo,  uma  eternidade 
vazia,  modelo  de  todo  o tempo  futuro  vivido  de  olhos  inutilmente  abertos.  O 
horror  puro  e invisivel. 

For  fora,  vivemos  e consumimos  um  tempo  realmente  planetario,  como 
se  fossemos  todos,  e nao  apenas  os  ocidentais  que  estenderam  a leitura  do 
seu  tempo  proprio  ao  mundo  inteiro,  o primeiro  ator  da  historia  digna  desse 
nome.  For  dentro,  vivemos  simultaneamente  uma  temporalidade  virtual  e 
real  sem  rela^ao  alguma  com  o que  foi,  nos  tempos  arcaicos,  tempo  circular,  e 
nos  tempos  cristaos,  uma  temporalidade  ressentida  como  desejo  ou  nostalgia 
ativa  do  tempo  de  Deus.  Fodemos  organizar  todas  as  festas  para  nos  lem- 
brar  que  tivemos  um  nascimento  e uma  vida  memoraveis,  pudemos  mesmo, 
nao  acreditando  um  segundo  em  tao  exaltante  inven^ao,  que  um  Jubileu  nos 
devolva  ainda  viva  a memoria  de  um  destino  analogo  ao  nosso  quando  pensa- 
vamos  ser  “filhos  de  Deus.”  Nenhuma  magia  virtual  nos  restituira  esse  mundo 
que  ja  nem  como  historia  somos  capazes,  ou  temos  interesse,  em  revisitar. 

Estamos  numa  outra  historia  onde  a urgencia  do  presente  a si  mesma  se  basta. 

Tempo  indiscermVel  da  sua  propria  interpreta^ao,  sufocados  e prisioneiros 
dela,  como  a abelha  no  seu  mel  ou  Creso  no  seu  ouro. 

Fara  quern  nao  e ocidental,  herdeiro  de  um  passado  sem  cessar  aspirado 
pelo  futuro,  da  ordem  transcendente  ou  apenas  utopica,  esta  imobilidade 
na  plenitude,  nao  so  nao  Ihe  causara  estranheza  como  talvez  um  justificado 
contentamento.  Com  riqueza  a mais,  nos  chegamos,  penosamente,  onde  eles 
nos  esperaram  sempre,  a um  mundo,  filho  do  Ceu  e da  terra,  sem  metafora 
alguma,  cheio  das  tragedias  banais  da  humanidade,  mas  sem  tragico  interior 
por  nao  haver  razao  alguma  para  o ser.  O que  tanto  custou  a imaginar  e a 
viver  a Nietzsche  e,  no  Oriente,  um  dado  natural.  E e de  supor  que  tambem 
sera  daqui  em  diante  para  nos,  tao  grande  e a sedu^ao  da  quietude  budista  no 


EDUARDO  LOURENgO 


230 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


mundo  ocidental.  Aceitamos  agora  nao  ter  vindo  de  nenhum  paraiso  de  onde 
tivessemos  sido  expulsos,  nem  ir  para  nenhum  “alem  mundo”  que  magica- 
mente  no-lo  devolva.  Devemos  viver  a legenda  como  a verdade  e a verdade 
como  um  sonho  para  sempre  adiado.  So  assim  entraremos  no  tempo  onde  ja 
estamos,  um  tempo  onde  o fdolo  Historia,  que  durante  dois  seculos  tomamos 
por  Deus  ou  o sen  anjo  ambiguo,  deixou  de  emitir  sinais. 

A inocente  formula  anarquista,  “nem  deus  nem  senhor,”  nao  escandaliza 
nem  surpreende  ninguem,  e uma  carta  de  visita  que  recebemos  no  ber^o  antes 
de  abrir  os  olhos  na  caverna  celeste  da  televisao  onde  noite  e dia  reciclamos 
extases  e terrores  virtuais  que  nos  tocam  menos  que  os  da  antiga  vida  inscrita 
no  circulo  da  “morte,”  “inferno”  e “paraiso.”  Estamos  obrigados  a inventar 
uma  imagem  de  nos  mesmos  como  se  nunca  a tivessemos  tido,  ou  a tives- 
semos para  saber,  sem  ilusao  alguma,  que  nao  e aquela  que  ja  somos  sem 
ter  nome  para  ela.  Nem  barbaros,  nem  gregos,  nem  pagaos,  nem  cristaos, 
nem  filhos  da  razao,  nem  intimos  das  trevas,  nem  vencedores  nem  vencidos 
de  combates  de  seculos,  subitamente  tornamo-nos  personagens  de  jogos  de 
video,  nem  mais  nem  menos  reals  que  os  das  aventuras  intergalacticas.  Aquilo 
que  somos  e o navio  sem  piloto  onde  singramos  deixou  o cais  de  um  tempo 
que  imaginavamos  conhecer,  como  conhecemos  o espa^o,  e aborda  agora, 
como  se  fossemos  todos  colombos  de  nos  mesmos,  o linico  continente  onde 
sempre  estivemos  pensando  navegar  no  oceano  de  Deus;  o do  Imemorial. 

Nos  romances  de  cavalaria  o heroi  a procura  de  si  mesmo  deparava  no  seu 
caminho  com  moradas  simbolicas  sobre  a invoca^ao  de  virtudes  que  o confor- 
tavam  no  seu  sentimento  de  nao  estar  de  todo  perdido.  No  nosso  ex-destino 
de  peregrinos  de  uma  Historia  concebida  como  uma  sucessao  de  carruagens 
cada  vez  mais  perfeitas — tempos  barbaros,  tempos  imperials,  idades  medias, 
renascen^as,  barroquismos,  luzes,  progressos  sem  fim,  democracia  perpetua, 
paraiso  igualitario — cada  etapa  nos  aproximava  daquele  tempo  dos  tempos, 
o nosso,  fllho  de  todos  os  outros  e revela^ao  do  seu  sonho  de  esperan^a  sem 
cessar  diferidos.  Desde  o seculo  XVIII  vivemos  na  convic9ao  de  sermos,  final- 
mente,  os  hospedes  de  um  mundo  que  sabia  o que  queria  e para  onde  ia,  pois 
ninguem  nos  impunha  fins  que  nao  fossem  da  nossa  inven^ao  e responsabi- 
lidade.  Mas  chegamos  a este  tempo  onde  os  tempos  esperavam  por  nos  para 
saberem  quern  foram,  e nada  nos  mostra  que  tenhamos  nele  uma  imagem, 
uma  identidade,  uma  existencia  mais  humana  para  nos  mesmos  que  o dessa 
serie  de  tempos  dedicados  cada  um  a um  altar  diferente  e a uma  so  adora^ao, 
a nossa  de  simulacros  de  Deus. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  231 

Sem  mais  Deus  que  a sua  ausencia  vivida  como  uma  festa,  nem  por  isso 
deixamos  de  ser  simulacros,  agora  de  nos  mesmos.  Simulacros  virtualmente 
eternos,  clones  do  deus  que  nao  somos,  multiplicando  sem  fim  o nosso  esplen- 
dor  de  imortais  por  que  tanto  almejamos.  Sem  a ironia  biblica,  temos  de  nos 
habituar  a ser  como  “deuses,”  nao  por  receber  existencia  e sentido  de  um 
Outro,  nosso  semelhante  inacessivel,  mas  por  poder  reproduzir,  como  Andys 
Warhols  sarcasticos,  a nossa  vida  reduzida  a imagem  de  si  mesma.  De  certo, 
nao  resolvemos  ainda  males  tao  universais  e tragedias  como  as  que  todos  os  dias 
nos  dao  o sentimento  de  ser  como  outrora  “bichos  da  terra  vis  e tao  peque- 
nos,”  mas  vivemo-los  como  se  nos  interessassem  menos  que  todos  os  jogos  e 
concursos  inventados  para  nos  distrairem  deles  e nos  confirmar  na  nossa  nova 
existencia  de  deuses  virtuais.  As  proprias  vitimas  sonham  com  este  Las  Vegas 
planetario  que  as  deixa  menos  sos  nos  sens  infernos,  sem  outros  Dante.  Que  os 
fotografos  que  no-los  metem  pelos  olhos  dentro  sem  que  nos  comovam. 

Com  o fim  de  um  tempo  como  Historia,  e memoria  dentro,  e o sujeito  cul- 
tural dele  que  desaparece.  Quer  dizer,  a Europa.  Neste  fim  do  milenio  e comego 
de  outro,  o “espirito  do  mundo”  chama-se  America  que  so  tern  tres  seculos  de 
vivida  memoria  ritualizada.  Para  ela  tudo  o mais  Ihe  e fabula,  como  o foram 
para  nos  a Grecia  ou  Roma,  antes  de  as  assumirmos  como  nossas  por  voluntaria 
viagem  nos  sens  livros  ressuscitados.  Nada  indica  que  a America  possa  fazer 
connosco  o que  fizemos  com  a Grecia  e depois  com  todos  os  Egitos  e Babilonias 
perdidos.  Nao  o precisa,  mas  tambem  nao  tern  interesse  em  recuperar  e univer- 
salizar  um  passado  onde  mal  existiu.  E no  seu  tempo  e em  fiin^ao  dele,  como 
nos  fazi'amos  para  refor^ar  a nossa  imagem  de  gregos  e cristaos,  que  a America 
vive  e e ele  que  tentara  impor,  sem  pena,  como  paradigma  universal. 

Tudo  recebera  leitura  do  lugar  e tempo  onde  o “sentido”  da  aventura 
Humana  se  produz  e concentra:  o dessa  mesma  America.  E o que  ha  de  ver- 
dade  no  diagnostico  de  Fukuyama:  o seu  “fim  da  historia”  e o fim  do  para- 
digma europeu  e o inicio  de  um  outro  “indiferente  a historia”  como  intencio- 
nalmente  universal  e concretamente  europeia. 

Isto  nao  nos  deve  escandalizar  mais  do  que  a antiga  convic^ao  de  que  a 
Europa  e o Mundo  eram  sinonimos.  Devemos  aprender  a viver  neste  novo 
tempo  onde  a vontade  de  poderio  europeu,  em  todas  as  ordens,  nao  regula 
todos  os  relogios  do  mundo,  se  alguma  vez  os  regulou.  Mas  nao  devemos 
esquecer  que,  enquanto  tal,  o “tempo  americano”  e um  tempo  de  tipo  novo 
que  desconhece  o travo  de  inquietude  que  Santo  Agostinho  comunicou  a 
temporalidade  crista,  e a esse  titulo  um  “antitempo”  europeu.  Desde  que 


EDUARDO  LOURENgO 


232 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


nasccii,  a America  e um  mundo  salvo  das  aguas  europeias.  Nao  ha  nenhum 
mito  que  Ihe  seja  mais  congenital  qiie  o de  Moises.  O nosso  foi  e e ainda 
o de  Ulisses,  mas  na  realidade  e vestido  de  americano  que  Ulisses  continua 
viajando  nos  espagos  que  se  nos  tornaram  inacessiVeis.  Como  se  a America 
viajasse  neles  para  se  encontrar,  temendo  nao  ser  ninguem  como  heroi  de 
Homero,  enquanto  nos,  como  o mesmo  Ulisses,  num  tempo  gloriosamente 
parado,  nao  temos  mais  vida  que  a da  nostalgia  de  uma  Historia  que  tinha  o 
nosso  rosto  e ja  nao  o tern. 


Eduardo  Louren^o  is  the  most  distinguished  cultural  critic  in  Portugal.  Among  his 
many  books,  which  include  the  influential  Pessoa  revisitado  (1973),  are  two  collections  of 
essays  in  English  translation.  Chaos  and  Splendor  and  Other  Essays  (2002)  and  This  Little 
Lusitanian  House:  Essays  on  Portuguese  Culture  (2003). 


The  Cell  Phone 


Joao  Melo 

Translated  by  Luisa  Venturini 
Revised  by  Russell  Hamilton 


Chiquinha  Setenta  left  her  home  earlier  than  usual.  She  had  to  take  care  of 
some  money  concerns.  A mixed-race  female  crook  from  Ui'ge  owed  her  five 
hundred  dollars  for  some  garments  she  had  brought  from  Rio  de  Janeiro,  a 
month  ago,  and  she  hadn’t  been  able  to  receive  the  money.  Every  time  she 
sent  word  to  the  woman  the  latter  would  reply  that  she  would  settle  the  mat- 
ter by  next  week.  But  so  far  she  hadn’t!  Whenever  Chiquinha  went  to  where 
the  woman  lived  she  was  never  there,  or  she  would  send  word  saying  that  she 
wasn’t.  So  on  this  occasion  she  decided  to  get  out  really  early  to  catch  that  bitch 
(obviously,  Chiquinha  Setenta’s  wording  was  ruder. . .)  while  she  was  still  in  bed. 
That  mixed-race  woman  should  give  her  the  five  hundred  dollars  on  that  very 
day,  for  better  or  for  worse,  because  Chiquinha  had  just  bought  a cell  phone 
from  a neighbor,  and  she  had  to  pay  for  it.  As  a businesswoman  she  obviously 
needed  to  own  a cell  phone  and,  what’s  more,  she  could  not  afford  to  have  a 
reputation  as  someone  who  didn’t  pay  her  bills  on  time  or  had  bad  credit. 

When  Chiquinha  thought  about  the  cell  phone  she  discreetly  patted  her 
purse  to  confirm  that  the  new  possession  was  where  it  should  be.  The  rea- 
son for  her  concern  was  quite  basic:  she  was  sitting  in  a cab.  For  those  who 
have  never  ridden  in  a cab  in  Luanda,  let’s  say  that  taxis  in  that  city  may  be 
less  comfortable  than  those  in  New  York,  but  are,  perhaps,  more  exciting. 
Chiquinha  was  squeezed  in  between  a peddler,  carrying  a basin  filled  with 
okra  and  jimboa,  a student  with  a swollen  head  and  straightened  hair,  whose 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  TillA.  (2012):  233-237. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


234 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


armpits  emitted  a fierce  odor,  and  an  albino  with  strange  scales  on  his  face.  And 
right  behind  her  a policeman  moved  his  hands  nervously  and  leaned  against  her 
neck  every  time  the  car  went  over  a bump  in  the  road.  Chiquinha  Setenta,  most 
likely  to  get  rid  of  such  a discomfort,  decided  to  start  mentally  constructing  the 
summary  statement  of  her  life,  beginning  with  the  nature  of  her  own  name: 

I haven't  been  a virgin  since  1970!  That's  why  everybody  calls  me  Chiquinha 
Setenta  [Seventy].  I was  born  in  Benguela,  in  Bata  Farta,  but  have  been  in 
Luanda  since  I was  a child.  In  my  earliest  years  I lived  with  uncles,  but  then 
I decided  to  take  to  life.  I met  many  men,  had  several  abortions,  and  never  got 
married.  I have  two  sons  and  not  even  I know  who  their  father  is.  But  what  does 
that  matter!  After  Angola  gained  its  independence  I became  a revolutionary  (I 
was  completely  nuts!. . .)  and  I joined  FAPLA  [the  People's  Armed  Forces  for  the 
Liberation  ofAngola[.  Fortunately  I managed  to  drop  out  of  the  party.  Now,  Lam 
a businesswoman!  I travel  to  Brazil,  South  Africa,  and  Namibia  and  purchase 
clothes  and  other  goods  in  order  to  sell  them  in  Luanda  and  elsewhere. 

Chiquinha  Setenta  patted  her  purse  again,  just  to  make  sure  that  the  cell 
phone  bought  from  one  of  her  neighbors  (to  facilitate  her  business  contacts, 
some  being  international  ones)  was  still  there.  Just  by  way  of  example,  the  next 
day  she  would  be  calling  her  kinswoman  Aparecida  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  to  inquire 
about  the  purchase,  ordered  last  month,  of  women’s  panties  (a  daring  type  with 
an  erotic  heart-shaped  opening  in  the  front,  which,  according  to  her  own  expe- 
rience, would  meet  with  a lot  of  success  among  her  customers).  By  one  of  those 
unsolvable  mysteries  of  the  human  brain,  remembering  that  task  reminded  her 
of  the  Ufge  mulatto  woman.  However,  the  thought  could  not  be  more  sca- 
brous: For  sure  that  damn  retarded  woman  does  not  even  wear  panties! 

The  cab  was  just  arriving  at  the  spot  where  Chiquinha  would  get  out.  She 
couldn’t  help  being  startled  when  she  understood  that  the  albino  was  about 
to  exit  at  the  same  stop.  A risky  driver’s  maneuver — passing  two  rows  of  cars 
and  then  bluntly  pulling  to  the  right,  then  speeding  up  resolutely  while  inside 
the  car  the  student  with  straightened  hair  and  foul  odor  was  yowling  hysteri- 
cally— caused  Chiquinha’s  startlement  to  dissipate,  but  not  for  long,  as  we 
shall  see.  In  fact,  when  it  came  to  her  mind  that  she  had  left  home  while  her 
children  were  still  sleeping,  she  decided  to  call  them  to  make  sure  everything 
was  ok.  The  albino  came  back  into  her  thoughts  when  she  understood  what 
was  going  on: 

Oh  no!  My  cell  phone!  Who  stole  my  cell  phone!!  Someone  took  my  cell  phone!. . . 
Hey  you,  driver!  Stop!  Goddamn  it! 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  235 

Another  theft  in  Luanda.  The  local  members  of  the  petty  bourgeoisie 
believe,  and  I do  not  know  why,  that  this  beloved  (no  matter  how  jaunty  and 
how  irresponsible)  city  of  ours,  more  than  four  hundred  years  old,  can  at  times 
be  seen  as  being  similar  to  Rio  de  Janeiro  and  Salvador.  So  one  more  robbery 
or  another  does  not  add  to  nor  diminish  Luanda’s  image.  Furthermore,  on  that 
same  day,  and  despite  the  fact  that  it  was  not  yet  seven  in  the  morning,  the  sun 
seemed  even  brighter,  the  sky  even  bluer,  and  even  the  landscape  vividly  colored 
(sorry  about  the  poetry).  Nevertheless,  Chiquinha  Setenta  could  see  darkness 
before  her,  and,  while  screaming,  she  could  not  help  watching  the  albino: 

Hey,  you,  you  damned  albino!  Where  is  my  cell  phoned 
As  soon  as  the  taxi  stopped,  its  worn-out  brakes  painfully  screeching, 
Chiquinha  Setenta’s  intention  was  to  assail  the  albino,  who  looked  at  her  with 
terrified  eyes,  perhaps  thinking  about  all  the  tribulations  people  of  his  “racial” 
group  have  endured  (and,  believe  me,  will  continue  to  endure).  A most  asser- 
tive voice  from  behind  held  her  back.  It  was  a voice  used  to  giving  orders: 

Wait!  Lady!  Wait!  Do  not  do  that!  Here,  I am  the  authority! 

This  was  the  policeman.  Making  his  way  among  the  other  taxi  passengers  he 
attempted  to  reach  the  door,  while  ordering  that  no  one  leave.  As  the  security 
and  public  order  officer  he  would  be  in  charge  for  that  purpose.  How  convenient 
was  his  presence,  one  should  say.  Without  his  presence  things  would  be  even 
worse.  However,  his  efforts  to  reach  the  door  could  not  be  more  useless.  The 
situation  really  had  become  chaotic.  The  albino  was  held  back  by  the  woman 
street  peddler.  I swear,  however,  that  I don’t  know  if  that  would  be  evidence  that 
gender  solidarity  is  not  a mere  fiction  of  modern  politics.  The  female  student 
with  straightened  hair  had  been  literally  flattened  against  the  inner  wall  of  the 
cab.  Chiquinha  Setenta  had  put  her  purse  completely  upside  down  to  let  all  of 
its  contents  out.  These  items  do  not  need  any  identification  because  the  contents 
of  every  female’s  purse,  whether  in  Angola  or  Cochin-China,  are  among  human- 
kind’s greatest  mysteries.  Because  she  was  crying  so  loudly  and  in  such  despair  it 
would  seem  as  if  Chiquinha  were  losing  her  hymen  for  the  second  time. 

It  was  in  here!  Really,  it  was  really  in  here! 

She  was  referring  of  course  to  the  cell  phone.  Even  so,  the  policeman,  who 
could  not  progress  in  his  legal  and  well-intended  attempt  to  reach  the  door  to 
get  in  charge  of  the  situation,  dared  to  ask: 

What  was  in  there,  madam?  You  really  had  a cell  phone?  Or  you  are  just  will- 
ing to  disturb  everybody?  And  why  would  you  decide  to  pick  on  an  albino?  That 
is  discrimination!  According  to  the  Constitution. . . 


JOAO  MELO 


236 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


For  many  years  now  Chiquinha  Setenta  had  lost  her  patience  for  any 
number  of  reasons. 

You  son  of  a bitch! — she  said.  Would  you  dare  to  think  that  I cannot  afford  a 
cell  phone?  Look,  lam  a businesswoman,  1 can  even  buy  you  and  all  your  family!. . . 
Come  and  arrest  that  damned  albino!  He  was  the  one  who  stole  my  cell  phone!. . . 

Until  then,  the  only  person  in  the  cab  to  remain  completely  silent  and 
not  make  even  the  tiniest  sound  (if  we  add  to  the  words  exchanged  and  the 
comments  of  most  passengers  the  yowling  of  the  student  with  the  straight- 
ened hair  and  smelly  armpits),  was  the  driver.  He  abstained  from  anything 
other  than  driving  the  car,  dangerously  overtaking  other  vehicles  while  greet- 
ing other  drivers  most  effusively,  and  provocatively  honking  against  all  those 
unwary  drivers  who  had  dared  to  face  the  chaotic  and  violent  city  traffic  that 
day.  When  the  chaos  caused  by  the  missing  cell  reached  its  maximum  the 
driver  immediately  stopped  the  car  and  discreetly  nodded,  out  of  all  oth- 
ers’ view,  at  the  fare  collector  who,  unseen  by  all,  locked  the  exit  door  for 
passengers.  A few  minutes  later,  as  the  argument  went  on  and  on,  around 
and  around,  getting  hotter  and  hotter,  he  took  his  own  cell  phone  out  of  his 
pocket  and  directed  a question  to  Chiquinha  Setenta  (after  all,  one  should 
bring  to  an  end  that  heated  discussion  in  the  kimbundu  language  because  the 
day  was  just  beginning  and  he  would  have  long  working  hours;  and  more  or 
less  for  the  same  reasons  the  narrator  needs  to  end  this  report  somehow...): 

Madam,  your  cell  phone  number,  please? 

The  story  of  the  security  and  public  order  officer  who  stole  Chiquinha 
Setenta’s  cell  phone  is  still  well  known  in  the  city.  However,  nobody  knows 
why  it  is  still  mentioned  as  “the-case-of-the-boot-that-answered-phone-calls.” 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  237 

Joao  Melo  (b.  1955,  Luanda,  where  he  lives)  adds  to  his  activities  as  an  author  those  of  a 
journalist,  publicist,  professor,  and  member  of  the  Angolan  Parliament.  He  is  a founder  of 
the  Angolan  Writers  Association.  His  works  include  poetry,  short  stories,  chronicles,  and 
essays,  and  have  been  published  in  Angola,  Portugal,  Brazil,  and  Italy.  He  was  awarded  the 
2009  Angola  Arts  and  Culture  National  Prize  in  literature  by  the  Ministry  of  Culture  of 
Angola.  In  2008,  he  was  awarded  the  most  important  journalistic  tribute  in  Angola,  the 
Journalism  Maboque  Prize.  Works  in  poetry:  Definigao  (1985);  Fabulema  (1986);  Poemas 
angolanos  (1986);  Tanto  amor  (1988);  Cangao  do  nosso  tempo  (1991);  O cagador  de  nuvens 
(1993);  Limites  e redundAncias  A luz  minima  (2001);  Todas  as palavras  (2004);  Auto- 

retrato  (2007);  Novos  poemas  de  amor  (2009).  Short  stories:  Imitagao  de  Sartre  e Simone  de 
Beauvoir  ( 1 999);  Filhos  da pdtria  (200 1 );  The  Serial  Killer  e outros  contos  risiveis  ou  talvez  nao 
(2004);  O dia  em  que  o Pato  Donald  comeu  pela  primeira  vez  a Margarida  (2006);  O homem 
que  nao  tira  o palito  da  boca  (2009).  Essay:  Jornalismo  e politica  (1991).  “The  cell  phone”  was 
published  in  The  Serial  Killer  e outros  contos  risiveis  ou  talvez  nao  (2004). 


Luisa  Venturini  has  thirty  years  of  experience  translating  into  Portuguese,  Spanish,  and 
English.  Nabokov,  Gabriel  Garda  Marquez,  Manuel  Carmo,  Daniel  Mendelsohn,  Joseph  t. 

Stiglitz,  Robert  Schiller,  and  Alberto  Manguel  are  among  the  authors  whose  works  she  has  ^ 

translated,  in  addition  to  regular  translation  services  to  museums,  foundations,  and  other  ): 

entities.  Email:  luisa.venturini@gmail.com  | 


JOAO  MELO 


Herberto  Helder,  from  Flash 


Translated  by  Alexis  Levitin 


IV 

Mouth. 

Brulure,  blessure.  Where 

the  many  channels  disembogue,  as  the  word  has  it. 

Pure  consumption,  or  in  a murmur, 

amidst  venous  blood,  or 

a trace  of  flame.  Gangrene, 

music, 

a bubble. 

The  awful  art  of  passion. 

A monstrous  pore  that  breathes  the  world. 

In  it  the  dark,  the  breath, 
burnt  air  are  crowned. 

Gold,  gold. 

Sonorous  tube  through  which  the  body  filters. 

All  of  it,  flowing  away. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  239—244. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


240 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


IX 

I wouldn’t  want  you  broken  by  the  four  elements. 

Or  caught  by  touch  alone; 
or  smell, 

or  Hesh  heard  beneath  the  working  of  the  moons 
in  the  water’s  deepest  mesh. 

Or  to  watch  the  operation  of  a star  between  your  arms. 

Or  that  falconry  alone  darken  me  like  a blow, 
the  quivering  noLirishment  among  linens  piled 
high 

upon  the  beds. 

Magnificence. 

It  raised  you  up 
in  music,  a naked  wound 
— terrified  by  richness — 

that  black  jubilation.  It  raised  you  up  in  me,  a crown. 

It  made  the  world  tremble. 

And  you  burned  my  mouth,  pure 
spoon  of  gold,  swallowed 
alive.  Our  tongue  glittered. 

I glittered. 

Or  else  that,  nailed  together  into  a single,  on-going  nexus, 
a marble  stalk  of  cane 
be  born  from  a unity  of  flesh. 

And  someone  passing  cut  the  breath 

of  braided  death.  Anonymous  lips,  in  the  gasping 

of  arduous  male  and  female 

intertwining,  creating  a new  organ  within  order. 

That  they  might  modulate. 

With  flickering  tips  of  flames,  faces  throbbed,  bursting  into  plumage. 
Animals  drank,  filling  themselves  with  the  rushing  of  water. 

The  planets  closed  themselves  in  that 
forest  of  sound  and  unanimous 

stone.  And  it  was  us,  this  violent  splendor,  transformer 
of  the  earth. 


Name  of  the  world,  diadem. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


241 


Untitled 

I swallowed 

water.  Deeply-water  dammed  within  the  air. 

A maternal  star. 

And  I am  here  devoured  by  a sobbing, 
weightless  from  my  face. 

The  glass  made  of  star.  The  water  so  powerful 
in  the  glass.  My  nails  are  black. 

I grab  hold  of  that  glass,  drink  from  that  star. 

I am  innocent,  uncertain,  quivering,  potent, 
tumescent. 

The  illumination  that  the  stationary  water  draws  from  me 
from  my  hands  to  my  mouth. 

I enter  spacious  places. 

— The  power  of  an  unknown  food  to  shine 
in  me;  my  face, 

when  a dark  hand  grazes  it,  above 

the  shirt  sodden  with  blood, 

below  hair  dried  by  moonlight.  I swallowed 

water.  The  mother  and  the  demonic  child 

were  seated  on  the  red  rock. 

I swallowed  deep 
deep  water. 


HERBERTO  HELDER 


242 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Untitled 

I cannot  listen  to  such  icy  singing.  They  are  singing 
about  my  life. 

They  have  brought  forth  the  taciturn  purity  of  the  world’s 
vast  nights. 

From  the  ancient  element  of  silence  that  devastating 

song  arose.  Oh,  ferocious  world  of  purity, 

oh,  incomparable  life.  They  are  singing  and  singing. 

I open  my  eyes  beneath  silent  waters, 

and  I see  that  my  memory  is  the  furthest  thing 

of  all.  They  are  singing  icily. 

I cannot  listen  to  their  song. 

And  if  they  were  to  say:  your  life  is  a rosebush.  See 
how  it  drinks  in  the  anonymity  of  the  season. 

Blood  drips  from  you  when  it’s  the  time  for  roses. 

Listen;  aren’t  you  lost  in  wonder 

at  the  subtlety  of  the  thorns  and  the  tiny  leaves? 

— If  they  were  to  say  something,  I would  be  graced 
with  a boundless  name. 

Do  not  sing,  do  not  blossom. 

I cannot  feel  life  filling  up  this  way 
like  an  icy  song  and  a rosebush 
so  spread  out  in  me. 

It  could  be  this  season  of  the  year  remained  untouched, 
and  my  existence  suddenly  was  flooded 
by  all  that  fervor. 

I see  my  ardent  sharpness  drain  until  it  merges  with  maturity 
in  a confluent 

summer’s  minute. — Would  I now  be 
complete  for  death? 

No,  do  not  sing  that  memory  of  everything. 

Neither  the  rosebush  on  blood-streaked  fragile 
flesh,  nor  summer  with  its 
symbols  of  ferocious  plenitude. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


243 


I would  like  to  think  my  fingers,  one  by  one, 
a zither  dropped  into  my  work. 

All  of  sadness  like  an  admirable  life 
filling  up  eternity. 

Songs  like  ice  leave  me  a desert,  and  the  rosebush 
sows  discord  among  recoiling 
roses.  Listen:  in  the  sadness  of  enormous  summer 
the  oneness  of  my  blood  collapses. 

I myself  cold  sing  a masculine  name, 
my  entire  life 

so  strong  and  sullied,  so  filled  with  the  heated  silence 
of  what  we  do  not  know. 

It  isn’t  sung,  it  doesn’t  blossom.  No  one 
ripens  in  the  middle  of  their  life. 

Slowly  one  touches  a suspended  part  of  one’s  body 
and  a high  sadness  purifies  one’s  fingers. 

For  a man  is  not  a song  of  ice  or 
a rosebush.  He  is  not 
a fruit  as  if  among  inspiring  leaves. 

A man  lives  a deep  eternity  that  closes 
over  him,  but  there  his  body 

burns  beyond  all  symbols,  without  a soul  and  pure 
as  an  ancient  sacrifice. 

Upon  icy  songs  and  terrifying  rosebushes, 
my  connected  flesh  nourishes  the  miraculous  silence 
of  a vast  life. 

It  could  be  that  all  is  well  in  the  pluralness 

of  an  intense  world.  But 

love  is  a different  power,  flesh 

lives  from  its  absorbed  permanence.  The  life 

of  which  I speak 

does  not  drain  away  or  feed  our  daily 
superlatives.  Unique, 

eternal,  it  hovers  above  the  hidden  fluidity 
of  all  motion. 


HERBERTO  HELDER 


244 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


— A rosebush,  even  though 

incomparable,  covers  everything  with  its  crimson  distraction. 
Behind  the  night  of  drooping 
roses,  the  flesh  is  sad  and  perfect 
like  a book. 


Herberto  Helder  (b.  1930),  Portuguese  of  Jewish  descent,  is  one  of  the  most  influential 
poets  after  the  modernist  Fernando  Pessoa.  The  first  edition  of  his  collected  poetry,  Poesia 
toda,  appeared  in  1981;  several  new  editions  have  been  published  since  then.  In  recent 
years  he  published  A faca  nao  corta  o fogo.  Sumula  e inMita  (2008),  and  Oficio  cantante 
(2009).  His  short-story  collection  masterpiece.  Os passos  em  volta,  was  published  in  1963. 

Alexis  Levitin  teaches  English  at  SUNY-Plattsburgh,  has  published  over  twenty  volumes 
of  translations,  including  Forbidden  Words:  Selected  Poetry  of  Eugenio  de  Andrade  (New 
Directions,  2003),  and  is  working  on  a Selected  Poems  for  Sophia  de  Mello  Breyner 
Andresen  and  Herberto  Helder.  Email:  levitia@plattsburgh.edu 


Four  Poems 


Margarida  Vale  de  Gate 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  245-260. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


246 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Intercidades 


galopamos  pelas  costas  dos  montes  no  interior 
da  terra  a comer  eiicaliptos  a comer  os  entulhos  de  feno 
a CLispir  o vento  a cuspir  o tempo  a cuspir 
o tempo 

o tempo  que  os  comboios  do  sentido  contrario  engolem 
do  sentido  contrario  roubam-nos  o tempo  men  amor 

preciso  de  ti  que  vens  voando 
ate  mim 

mas  voas  a vela  sobre  o mar 

e tens  espa^o  asas  por  isso  vogas  a deriva  enquanto  eu 
vou  rastejando  ao  teu  encontro  sobre  os  carris  faiscando 
ocasionalmente  e escrevo  para  ti  meu  amor 
a enganar  a tua  ausencia  a claustrofobia  de  cortinas 
cor  de  mostarda  tu  caminhas  sobre  a agua  e agora 
eu  sei 

as  palavras  valem  menos  do  que  os  barcos 

preciso  de  ti  meu  amor  nesta  solidao  neste  desamparo 
de  cortinas  espessas  que  impedem  o sol  que  me  impedem 
de  voar  e ainda  assim  do  outro  lado 
o ceu  exibe  nuvens  pequeninas  carneirinhos  a trotar 
a trotar  sobre  searas  de  aveia  e trigais  aqui  nao  ha 
comemos  eucaliptos  eucaliptos  e igrejas  caiadas 
debru^adas  sobre  os  apeadeiros  igrejas  caiadas 
meu  amor 

eu  fumo  um  cigarro  entre  duas  paragens  leio 
o Lobo  Antunes  e penso  as  pessoas  sao  tristes  as 
as  pessoas  sao  tao  tristes  as  pessoas  sao  pateticas  meu 
amor  ainda  bem  que  tu  me  escondes  do  mundo  me  escondes 
dos  sorrisos  condescendentes  do  mundo  da  comisera^ao 
do  mundo 

a noite  no  teu  corpo  meu  amor  eu 

tambem  sou  um  barco  sentada  sobre  o teu  ventre 


sou  um  mastro 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  247 


Intercity 

(Trans.  Ana  Hudson) 

we  ride  down  the  backs  of  hills  inside 
the  earth  eating  eucalyptus  eating  haystacks 
spitting  out  the  wind  spitting  out  time  spitting  out 
time 

time  the  trains  gulp  the  opposite  way  going 
the  opposite  way  stealing  our  time  my  love 

I need  you  who  are  flying 
to  me 

but  you  fly  unfurling  sails  over  the  sea 

you  have  wing-space  you  hover  you  drift  while  I 

keep  crawling  towards  you  along  the  rails 

with  occasional  sparks  I write  to  you  my  love 

cheating  your  absence  the  claustrophobia  of  the  mustard 

coloured  curtains  you  walk  on  water  and  now 

I know 

words  are  less  worthy  than  boats 

I need  you  my  love  in  this  loneliness  this  forsakenness 
of  thick  curtains  preventing  the  sun  preventing  my 
flight  and  nevertheless  on  the  opposite  side 
the  sky  boasts  little  lamb  clouds  hopping 
hopping  on  oats  and  wheat  fields  there  are  none  here 
we  eat  eucalyptus  eucalyptus  and  whitewashed  churches 
leaning  over  level-crossing  whitewashed  churches 
my  love 

I smoke  a cigarette  in  between  two  stops  I read 

Lobo  Antunes  I think  people  are  sad  people 

are  so  sad  people  are  pathetic  my 

love  just  as  well  you  hide  me  from  the  world  you  hide 

me  from  the  world’s  patronising  smiles  the  world’s 

self-righteous  consent 

by  night  on  your  loins  my  love  I 

am  also  a boat  sitting  on  top  of  your  body 

I am  a mast 


MARGARIDA  VALE  DE  GATO 


248 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


preciso  de  ti  meu  amor  estou  cansada  doi-me 

em  volta  dos  olhos  tenho  vontade  de  chorar  mesmo  assim 

desejo-te  mas  antes  antes  de  me  tocares  de  dizeres  quero-te 

meu  amor  has-de  deixar-me  dormir  cem  anos 

depois  de  cem  anos  voltaremos  a ser  barcos 

eu  estou  so 

Portugal  nunca  mais  acaba  comemos  eucaliptos 

eucaliptos  interminaveis  longos  e verdes 

comemos  eucaliptos  entremeados  de  arbustos 

comemos  eucaliptos  a dor  da  tua  ausencia  meu  amor 

comemos  este  calor  e os  caminhos  de  ferro  e a angiistia 

a deflagrar  combustao  no  livro  do  Lobo  Antunes 

comemos  eucaliptos  e Portugal  nunca  mais  acaba  Portugal 

e enorme  eu  preciso  de  ti  e em  sentido  contrario  roubam-nos 

o tempo  roubam-nos  o tempo  meu  amor  tempo 

o tempo  para  sermos  barcos  e atravessar  paredes  dentro  dos  quartos 

meu  amor  para  sermos  barcos  a noite 

a noite  a soprar  docemente  sobre  as  velas  acesas 


barcos. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


249 


I need  you  my  love  I am  tired  I ache 

close  to  where  my  eyes  are  set  I feel  like  crying  still  I 

desire  you  but  before  before  you  touch  me  before  you  say 

I want  you  my  love  you  shall  let  me  sleep  a hundred  years 

a hundred  years  from  today  we’ll  be  boats  again 

I am  lonely 

Portugal  is  everlasting  we  eat  eucalyptus 

everlasting  eucalyptus  lean  and  green 

we  eat  eucalyptus  interspersed  with  shrubs 

we  eat  eucalyptus  the  ache  of  your  absence  my  love 

we  eat  this  heat  and  the  railtracks  and  anguish 

set  ablaze  inside  Lobo  Antunes’s  novel 

we  eat  eucalyptus  and  Portugal  is  everlasting  Portugal 

is  huge  and  I need  you  and  in  the  opposite  way  they  are  stealing 

time  it’s  our  time  they  are  stealing  my  love  it’s  time 

time  for  us  to  be  boats  and  sail  through  walls  inside  rooms 

my  love  to  be  boats  at  night 

at  night  to  blow  oh  sweetly  blow  into  full  sail 


boats. 


MARGARIDA  VALE  DE  GATO 


250 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Mulher  ao  mar 


MAYDAY  lan(;o,  porque  a guerra  dura 
e esta  vazio  o vaso  em  que  parti 
c cede  ao  fundo  onde  a vaga  fura, 
suga  a fissura,  uma  falta  - nao 
um  tarro  de  corrida  que  vogasse; 
especifico:  e rerracota  e fractura, 
e eu  sou  esparsa,  e a liquidez  maci^a. 
Tarde  sei,  sera,  se  vier  socorro: 
se  transluz  pouco  ao  escuro  este  sinal, 
e a agua  nao  preve  qualquer  escritura 
se  jazo  aqui:  rasura  apenas,  branda 
a costura,  fara  a onda  em  ponto 
lento  um  manto  sobre  o afogamento. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  251 


Woman  Overboard 

(Trans.  Ana  Hudson  and  Margarida  Vale  de  Gato) 

MAYDAY  I break  out:  the  hard  war  endures; 
empty  is  the  vessel  from  which  I part — 
it  slacks  in  the  deep,  bored  by  the  sway, 
a leaking  slit,  a lack — not  in  the  least 
a cork  pail  with  pores  made  to  drift. 

I specify:  it’s  terracotta,  it  cracks 
and  I am  sparse  in  dense  fluidity. 

Too  late,  I know,  help  will  come,  if  ever 

so  feebly  I flash  in  obscurity 

and  the  writing  does  not  stay  on  water; 

here  I lie:  hardly  an  erasure,  less 

than  a seam  the  wave  will  slowly  stitch 

a slumbering  quilt  over  where  I sink. 


MARGARIDA  VALE  DE  GATO 


252 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Cat  People 


Ciiriosa  a tribo  qiie  formamos,  sos 
que  somos  sempre  e a noire  pardos, 
tuzis  os  olhos,  garras  como  dardos, 
mostrando  o nosso  assanho  mais  feroz: 

quando  me  ataca  o cio  eu  toda  ardo, 
e pelos  becos  fa^o  eco,  a voz 
esfor^o,  estico  e,  como  outras  de  nos, 
de  susto  dobro  e fico  um  leopardo 

ou  ando  nas  piscinas  a rondar  - 
e perco  o pe  com  ganas  sufocantes 
de  regressar  ao  si'tio  que  deixei 

julgando  ser  mais  fundo  do  que  antes. 
A isto  assiste  a morte,  sem  contar 
as  vidas  que  levei  ou  ji  gastei. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


253 


Cat  People 

(Trans.  Margarida  Vale  de  Gato) 

So  odd  the  tribe  we  make,  lonesome  that 
we  always  are,  and  swarthy  in  the  night, 
muskets  our  eyes,  spears  our  claws,  we 
show  how  fierce  we  are  to  get  excited. 

When  I am  in  heat  I wholly  burn, 
my  echo  down  the  alleys,  the  struggle 
and  strain  of  my  voice,  as,  like  my  sisters, 

I bend  in  fright  and  into  a leopard  turn 

or  else  I sneak  around  the  swimming  pool 
and  I lose  my  foot  with  a gasping  urge 
that  I might  return  to  the  places  I left 

imagining  now  they’d  reach  further  depth 
and  death  watches  all  the  while,  albeit 
the  lives  I’ve  led,  or  already  have  spent. 


MARGARIDA  VALE  DE  GATO 


254 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Amtrak 


Somando  tudo  ja  dei  um  par  de  vezes  a volta 
ao  mundo  agora  outra  vez  enamorada  outra  vez 
desengomada  e tao  de  veludo  e tensa  e tenra 
e OLirra  vez  um  muito  semelhante  cansa^o  de  urgencia 
impossivel  nao  comparar  este  relate  de  me  deslocar 
ate  ti  com  um  poema  de  amor  de  ha  dezasseis  anos 
escrito  em  turbilhao  e certeza  onde  maldizia 
de  avaro  e com  que  ironia  hoje  o tempo 

e pensar  isto  e pensar  que  muito  se  medita  mas  ja  se  preve 
que  nao  e desta  que  termina  a correria 
e Outono 

outra  esta^ao  outro  pais  outra  idade  tu 

falas  outra  lingua  tens  a pele  anilada 

que  herdaste  de  pais  que  vieram  da  India 

e esta  carruagem  que  me  leva  ja  vem  do  Canada  ha 

o Hudson  que  bordeja  em  serpentina  sem  eucaliptos  nem  igrejas 

desta  vez  como  num  sonho  crepitante  ha 

folhas  de  acer  lembrando  nos  tres  dedos 

patas  de  asas  curtidas  em  peles  secas  e ocres  e rugiriam 

se  pisadas 

embora  condiga  a paisagem  com  mais  doces  imagens 

de  resto  que  perfeito  isto  ate  o frio 

ca  dentro  nao  se  sente  e coa-se  o ocaso 

e eu  deslizo  para  ti  e um  outro  continente  ha 

tantas  horas  viajo  que  quase  tudo  esqueci 

menos  o quanto  aben<;oadamente 

menos  esta  ternura  coberta  de  fadiga 

mesmo  se  suspeite 

que  sub-repticia  mova  a vertigem  e o impossivel  nao  dure 

e de  repente  tenho  vinte  e um  anos  outra  vez  ha 
pouco  tempo  sou  outra  vez  maior 

visto  que  chego  esta  noite  e tudo  indica  que  faremos  amor 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  255 


Amtrak 

(Trans.  Margarida  Vale  de  Gato) 

All  in  all  a couple  of  times  I’ve  been  around 
the  world  now  once  again  I am  elated  once 
again  disheveled  velvety  terse  and  tender 
once  again  the  all  too  familiar  weariness 
of  eagerness  and  I cannot  but 
compare  this  account  of  moving  toward  you 
with  a love  poem  of  sixteen  years  penned 
down  with  restless  conviction  crossing 
oh  what  irony  the  meanness  of  time 

And  to  think  this  is  to  think  for  all  meditation  you 

figure  the  running  is  yet  to  stop.  It’s  fall 

a different  season  a different  country  a different  age  yours 

a different  tongue  your  blue  dyed  skin  from  East  Asian  folk 

and  this  wagon  carrying  me  came  from  Canada  where 

the  Hudson  runs  is  winding  without  eucalyptus  or  churches 

this  time  like  a glistening  dream  the 

maple  leaves  recalling  with  their  three  fingers 

the  claws  of  scalped  wings  in  seared  yellow  skins 

that  might  growl  under  one’s  step 

though  mellower  images  become  the  landscape 

quite  divine  in  fact  even  the  cold 

not  felt  inside  as  the  sun  settles 

and  I glide  toward  you  on  a different  continent  where 
I’ve  been  crossing  for  so  long  I almost  forgot 
but  for  all  bliss 

but  for  this  tenderness  clothed  with  fatigue 
yet  I suspect 

the  edge  is  an  undercurrent  where  ultimacy  won’t  last 

And  suddenly  I am  twenty-one  again  I am 
just  of  age 

because  I will  come  tonight  we  are  sure  to  make 

love  I flew  over  the  water  to  you  I withstood  this  friction 


MARGARIDA  VALE  DE  GATO 


256 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


voei  sobre  a agua  ate  ti  suporto  este  atrito  ate  ti 

devoro  as  copas  do  acer  no  Otitono  para  me  deitar  junto  de  ti 

contanto  desta  vez  adivinhe  - ou  ja  percebi  - 

que  sao  lindas  promessas  mas  dificilmente  nos  perseguimos 

ate  ao  fim  sequer  a nos  proprios  porque  a viagem 

tern  esta  coisa  de  nos  provar  que  ja  nao  somos  o que  fomos 

e porque  haveriamos  de  ser  separados  de  vidas  anteriores 

e colocados  em  lados  contrarios  do  globo 

- amor  que  tudo  move  como  iludes  na  verdade  - 

quero  perscrutar  pelo  grande  vidro  deste  vagao 

a noite  e descubro  o meu  reflexo  sedentario 

mas  ja  nao  sou  quern  podia  nao  ter  usado  o bilhete 

na  bifurca^ao  alem  deixei-o  para  tras 

e se  compreendo  o que  antigamente  era  e 

agora  a luz  da  America  e de  ti 

amor  com  desenlace  iminente 

e de  todos  os  registos  e testemunhos  e gritos 

de  vidas  por  esse  exigente  caminho  fora 

sem  treguas  mas  com  contempla^oes 

se  compreendo  isto  e porque  compreendo  dizia  talvez 

o tempo  aqui  por  esta  faisca  em  frente  no  espa^o; 

e preciso  contar  ao  pormenor  e repetidamente 

o que  vivemos  e por  que  ansiamos  e onde  chegamos 

pois  e na  medida  em  que  nos  movemos  que  mudamos 

e basta  deslocarmo-nos  para  divergirmos  tu 

soubeste  antes  de  mim  - evidencia  que  me  surge  com  algum  choque  - 
quando  voltaste  para  ai  depois  da  proposta  que  foste  fazer-me 
onde  eu  estava  tiraste-me  de  la  amor 
e respiraste-me  ao  ouvido  Vai 

fazendo  com  isso  logo  com  que  um  pouco  eu  te  perdesse 

e sera  assim  para  sempre  repetir  constantemente  por  onde  passamos 

quern  foram  os  nossos  pais  e quern  julga  neste  momento 

Vossa  Majestade  que  eu  sou  quern  nao  seremos  jamais  eu 

envelhe^o  falta-me  a mao 

para  escrever  e para  errar  quanto  mais  viver 

importa  portanto  esta  noite  ir-te  amar 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


257 


toward  you  I ate  the  maple  treetops  to  lie  by  you 

even  if  by  now  guessing  or  realizing 

that  these  are  sweet  pledges  but  we  hardly  follow 

ourselves  to  the  end  and  the  journey  is 

thus  the  evidence  that  we  no  longer  are  we 

And  why  should  we  have  been  separated  at  birth 

and  willfully  disposed  of  onto  opposite  sides  of  the  globe 

— thou  love  that  all  hath  moved,  how  true  art  thy  delusions — 

I want  to  peer  through  the  big  glass  of  this  wagon  window 

into  the  night  and  I find  my  unflinching  reflection 

but  no  longer  am  the  one  who  might’ve  not  used  the  ticket 

and  if  I understand  what  once  I was  it  is 

now  in  the  light  of  America  and  of  you 

my  love  of  imminent  resolution 

in  the  light  of  all  statements  and  journals  and  logs 

of  lives  along  this  demanding  way 

without  truce  but  some  contemplations  now  and 

then  if  I understand  this  as  I said  it  may  be 

because  I understand  time  through  this  chip  of  light  before  space: 

one  must  tell  all  over  and  in  detail  our  life 

story  what  we  yearned  for  where  we  got 

because  how  we  change  depends  on  where  we  move 

and  it  takes  just  a slight  shift  to  drift — you  knew 

before  me — as  I am  somewhat  shocked  to  realize — 

when  you  went  back  there  after  that  which  took  you  so  long 

to  propose  back  where  you  took  me  away  love  and  breathed  Go 

and  for  that  I lost  you  a little  even  then 

and  it  will  be  the  same  forever:  to  say  all  over  where  we  went 

who  were  our  parents  and  who  does  Your  Highness 

imagine  I am  right  now  I will  be  no  more  I 

grow  old — I miss  the  gift 

of  writing  and  failing  let  alone  living 

And  so  it  matters  that  tonight  I’m  coming  to  love  you 


MARGARIDA  VALE  DE  GATO 


258 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


va  o pensamento  com  o movimento  e o cansa^o 
e algiim  frio  qLie  se  levantOLi  desde  ha  bocado 
nao  haja  aspereza  de  palavras  ou  pedidos  se 
o que  escrevo  a cada  quadrado  de  janela  nao  flea  se 
modihea  e passa  se 

expira  a intensidade  e o vazio  a agarra  - tanto 
mais  acerbo  quanto  ela  for  real  - insisto 
por  ti  por  amor  que  me  movi 
em  quatro  sentidos  seja  total 
a gra^a  a noite 

e nos  no  final 

um  poLico  apos  a luz  ainda  unidos 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


259 


Let  go  the  thought  along  the  way  and  the  weariness 

and  the  cold  that  has  crept  in  since  Let  no 

harsh  talk  or  demands  surface  if  what  I write 

will  not  remain  on  every  square  inch  of  the  changing  pane 

If  I breathe  depth  in  and  emptiness  out — the  deeper 

the  hallower  I insist 

for  you  for  love  that  I have  moved 

in  four  directions  let  bliss 

be  full  tonight 

and  may  we  together  steal  a while 
away  from  the  end  of  light. 


MARGARIDA  VALE  DE  GATO 


260 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Margarida  Vale  de  Gato  (b.  1973)  received  her  PhD  in  North  American  Literature  from 
the  University  of  Lisbon.  She  is  a poet  and  literary  translator  (mainly  from  English  and 
French  into  Portuguese).  /Vmong  her  many  well-received  translations  are  MarkTwainss  The 
Innocents  Abroad  and  Poes  complete  poetry.  Her  poetry  collection  Mulher  ao  mar  (2010) 
has  been  received  as  one  of  the  most  innovative  in  recent  years.  Email:  mvgato@gmail.com 

Ana  Hudson  is  a poetry  translator.  She  is  the  editor  of  the  website  Poems  from  the 
Portuguese  <http://poemsfromtheportuguese.org/>  where  translations  into  English  of 
poetry  written  since  2000  by  living  Portuguese  poets  are  published. 


Other  Articles 


I 


i 


f- 


't 


-* 


I 


«' 


), 


/' 


i 


Brazilian  Masculine  Identity  in  Mario  Prata's  Album-Novel 
Buscando  o seu  mindinho:  Um  almanaque  auricular 


George  Arthur  Carlsen 


Abstract.  This  article  explores  Mario  Pratas  use  of  an  album-novel  writing 
strategy  in  Buscando  o seu  mindinho-.  Um  almanacjue  auricular  (2002)  to 
subvert  stereotypes  of  exaggerated  Brazilian  masculinity.  This  album-novel 
subverts  notions  of  Brazilian  masculinity  through  the  phallic  metaphor 
of  the  little  finger  or,  in  the  case  of  the  narrator,  its  lack.  By  mimicking 
the  fragmented  and  hypertextual  appearance  of  Internet  writing  in  a paper 
novel,  Prata  challenges  readers’  expectations  about  the  role  of  the  author 
by  suggesting  that  his  narrator,  Mindinho,  is  as  much  an  assembler 
as  he  is  a writer. 


Mario  Pratas  novel  Buscando  o seu  mindinho:  Um  almanaque  auricular  (2002) 
appropriates  and  interacts  with  Internet-writing  practices  and  demonstrates 
an  album-novel  narrative  strategy.  This  technique  is  manifested  in  the  life 
story  of  an  editor/narrator  who  compiles  stories,  anecdotes,  screenplays, 
histories,  scientific  facts,  and  more,  some  invented  by  the  author  and  some 
skimmed  from  blogs  and  Web  pages.  These  fragments  find  outlet  through  an 
editorial  presence  that  pastiches  various  texts  together,  some  from  the  Internet 
and  some  of  his  own  creation.  In  this  study  I propose  that  Pratas  album-novel 
breaks  down  traditional  categorizations  of  high  and  low  art  and  questions 
stereotypes  of  Brazilian  masculinity  by  making  the  little  finger  a metaphor  to 
parody  and  subvert  phallogocentrism.  The  mimicry  of  online  content  in  this 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  I'bllA  (2012):  263-277. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


264 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


album-novel  indicates  technical  changes  that  broaden  the  genre  of  the  Brazil- 
ian novel  in  the  twenty-first  century  and  point  toward  the  enduring  allure  of 
print  publication  even  as  readership  is  moving  online. 

Mario  Alberto  Campos  de  Morals  Prata  of  Sao  Paulo  began  writing  short 
stories  and  also  for  television  and  film  in  the  1970s,  including  his  most  suc- 
cessful work,  the  script  for  the  award-winning  film  Besame  mucho}  Since  then 
he  has  published  fifteen  novels  and  hundreds  of  cronicas  in  various  literary 
supplements.  While  he  has  published  a great  deal,  Prata’s  works  have  been 
viewed  as  more  commercial  than  critical  and  have  drawn  little  academic 
attention.  Prata  is  widely  known  for  being  the  creator  of  the  telenovela  Bang- 
bang  that  was  canceled  by  Rede  Globo  after  only  a few  months.  In  Buscando 
0 sen  mindinho,  published  before  Prata  began  production  with  Globo,  a frag- 
ment also  entitled  “Bangue-bangue”  appears  as  a predecessor  to  the  unsuc- 
cessful telenovela?  Criticism  on  Buscando  o seu  mindinho  is  limited  to  a small 
number  of  reviews  in  cultural  supplements  in  newspapers  such  as  Veja  Sao 
Paulo,  though  scholars  of  communications  such  as  Alex  Primo  and  Maria 
Carmem  Jacob  de  Souza  have  analyzed  Prata’s  telenovelas. 

Buscando  o seu  mindinho  revolves  around  a protagonist  called  Mindinho  and 
his  ailing  wife  Gloria.  The  text  has  several  diegetic  levels;  the  author  Prata  begins 
with  a fictional  version  of  himself  receiving  the  pieces  of  the  album  as  edited  by 
Mindinho,  who  is  himself  an  autobiographical  character  in  a number  of  the  frag- 
ments. Each  fragment  of  text,  whether  copied  from  the  Internet  or  invented  by 
Mindinho,  is  preceded  by  an  introduction  that  relates  some  of  Mindinho’s  experi- 
ence of  losing  his  wife  to  cancer.  The  first  segment,  “Introduzindo  o Mindinho; 
Leitura  indispensavel,”  is  a foreword  to  the  album,  written  by  a fictionalization 
of  the  author  who  states  that  his  old  friend  from  school,  Mindinho,  had  recently 
passed  away  from  cancer.  At  the  funeral,  all  of  Mindinho’s  old  friends  attend  to 
bid  farewell  to  their  friend  nicknamed  after  his  lack  of  a mindinho  (“little  finger”). 
At  the  service,  Mindinho’s  son  Fabricio  hands  Prata  a shoebox  left  by  Mindinho 
to  him  containing  a jumble  of  texts  all  related  to  the  little  finger.  In  the  first  frag- 
ment from  the  shoebox,  Mindinho  explains  that  as  Gloria  became  increasingly 
feeble,  he  began  to  distract  himself  by  researching  all  things  related  to  the  little 
finger  and  to  his  own  personal  genealogy  as  they  interrelate.  Having  over  the  years 
accumulated  a series  of  short  stories,  screenplays  for  telenovelas  and  movies,  as 
well  as  plays,  poetry,  essays,  emails,  and  other  odds  and  ends  that  were  summarily 
rejected  by  the  publishing  and  broadcasting  establishment  in  Brazil,  he  decides  to 
include  all  of  the  fragments  of  his  failed  writings  in  the  shoebox  given  to  Prata. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  265 

Mindinho  is  characterized  by  professional,  physical,  and  hereditary  fail- 
ure. In  the  first  fragment  he  claims  that,  in  spite  of  his  greatest  efforts,  he 
failed  to  publish  any  of  his  works:  “Mandava  para  Deus  e o mundo.  Nunca 
obtive  uma  resposta  deles,  os  chamados  produtores  de  fic^ao”  (17).  Mindinho 
blames  all  of  his  failures  on  his  missing  finger.  The  spelling  of  Mindinho’s 
legal  name  Fabrico  shows  an  absence  similar  to  the  physical  form  of  his  right 
hand.^  The  lack  of  the  second  letter  “i”  in  his  name  changes  Fabrfcio  to  Fab- 
rico: the  eu  conjugation  of fabricar.  Immediately  after  explaining  the  missing 
letter,  Prata  describes  in  detail  his  missing  appendage,  making  it  seem  no 
coincidence:  “O  problema  dele  era  na  mao  direita.  Ele  nao  tinha  o dedo  min- 
dinho. E,  o mais  estranho,  e que  ele  nao  havia  tambem  o lugar  onde  deveria 
ter  o dedo  mfnimo”  (12).  The  lack  of  the  finger  and  the  lack  of  the  letter  in 
his  name  frustrate  normalcy  as  a child  for  Mindinho  and  he  begins  to  prefer 
his  nickname,  capitalizing  on  the  absences  rather  than  suffering  from  them. 
Mindinho  claims  in  his  letter  to  Prata  that  the  act  of  writing  and  fabricating 
stories  allowed  him  a measure  of  peace  from  his  disfigurement: 

[E]  claro  que  eu  tinha  que  ter  problemas  psicologicos  com  essa  mao  direita  tao 
esquisita.  Isso  me  inibiu  na  vida.  Eu  disfar<;ava,  voce  sabe.  Mas  acho  que  nunca 
dei  muito  certo  por  causa  disto.  Mas,  desde  que  comecei  a me  dedicar  ao  assunto, 
a procurar  tudo  que  havia  sobre  o dedinho,  ganhei  uma  nova  vida.  (18) 

The  themes  of  failure  and  denial  lie  heavy  on  the  text,  and  they  frequently 
interact  with  notions  of  inflated  patriotism  and  chauvinism  as  a coping  mech- 
anism. By  creating  an  encyclopedic  album  of  all  Internet  content  related  to 
the  little  finger,  Mindinho  searches  to  find  meaning  for  his,  and  metaphori- 
cally Brazil’s,  failures.  The  fragments  ultimately  decline  in  relevance  to  his 
pursuit,  but  he  discovers  that  the  very  act  of  searching,  writing,  and  compil- 
ing provides  his  life  with  meaning  and  a sense  of  value  to  posterity. 

Between  his  failed  literary  works,  Mindinho  includes  loosely  related  frag- 
ments taken  from  the  Internet  using  mindinho  as  a search  term.  Every  result 
includes  the  topic  word  at  least  once,  but  may  or  may  not  be  of  any  use  what- 
soever to  his  encyclopedic  project.  In  the  novel  Prata  creates  a version  of  him- 
self as  an  extra-diegetic  compiler  of  the  text  and  attributes  to  himself  only  the 
foreword.  The  extremely  un-technological  shoebox  that  Fabrfcio  hands  him  at 
the  funeral  is  the  unassembled  text  and  parodies  the  high-tech  electronic  frag- 
ments contained  therein.  While  the  album  style  of  the  novel  and  the  website 


GEORGE  ARTHUR  CARLSEN 


266 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


attributions  mimic  the  experience  of  online  reading,  at  the  bottom  lies  a lin- 
ear story.  The  reader  of  Buscando  o seu  mmdinho  is  presented  with  the  finished 
product  of  semi-organized  narrative  fragments,  the  shoebox,  that  are  relevant 
to  the  life  story  of  Mindinho,  Gloria,  his  son  Fabrfcio,  his  ancestors,  and  his 
perceived  inheritance  of  failure  with  his  disability  and  his  Brazilian  identity. 

An  example  of  the  Internet  search  employed  in  the  novel  appears  in  “Car- 
tas ao  jornal  Expresso,  de  Portugal.”  Mindinho  explains  in  his  preface:  “Isto 
tambem  e da  Internet.  Sao  cartas  de  leitores  para  o jornal  Expresso,  de  Lis- 
boa. Ate  la,  fui  achar  um  mindinho”  (185).  This  fragment  is  nothing  more 
than  a pair  of  online  comments  posted  by  Internet  readers  of  the  Portuguese 
newspaper.  The  first  online  contributor  to  the  newspaper  uploads  a nostal- 
gic eulogy  for  the  disappearing  art  of  Fado  music  in  Portuguese  culture  and 
suggests  renaming  Lisbon’s  Ota  airport  after  the  singer  Amalia.  The  letter 
does  not  have  anything  to  do  with  the  little  finger  or  Mindinho’s  search  for 
meaning  and  its  tangential  inclusion  can  only  be  explained  by  its  single  use 
of  the  word  mindinho.  Email  correspondence  represents  a large  portion  of 
the  album-novel.  In  the  spirit  of  Internet  chatter,  the  emails  are  tangential 
to  Mindinho’s  search  for  knowledge  about  the  little  finger.  He  explains  that 
he  had  emailed  a number  of  authors  about  the  uses  of  the  little  finger  and 
provides  a response  from  Joao  Ubaldo  Ribeiro  (53).  Ubaldo  informs  him 
that  many  people  use  their  little  fingers  to  clean  their  ears,  belly  buttons,  and 
anuses.  In  a footnote,  Prata  states  that  he  did  not  believe  the  email  exchange 
to  be  real,  so  he  himself  contacted  Ubaldo  Ribeiro  to  verify  whether  the  letters 
were  true.  Ubaldo  misinterprets  Prata’s  question  and  replies  that  he  himself  does 
not  employ  his  little  finger  for  any  of  those  uses.  The  exchange  demonstrates  the 
frequent  errors  of  attribution  and  anonymity  found  in  Internet  content. 

The  next  fragment  is  an  anonymous  email  written  to  “Querido  senhor 
Mindinho”  (57).  The  writing  is  a microcosm  of  the  novel;  a number  of  seem- 
ingly random  statements  in  free  association  result  In  a connection  to  the  little 
finger  and  a description  of  Brazil’s  troubled  past.  First,  the  correspondent 
relates  breaking  his  or  her  finger  and  the  high  cost  of  medical  care  in  Brazil, 
then  mentions  the  film  Bonnie  and  Clyde  in  order  to  evoke  how  Clyde  cut 
off  his  little  finger  to  avoid  military  service.  The  author  then  returns  to  his/ 
her  own  injury  and  mentions  how  breaking  a digit  made  him/her  fear  for  the 
nineteen  others.  (S)he  subsequently  relates  how  Bill  Clinton,  when  meet- 
ing Gabriel  Garcia  Marquez,  wore  tennis  shoes  because  leather  shoes  had 
led  to  his  many  foot  problems.  The  seemingly  errant  email  proceeds  with  an 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  267 

anecdote  about  how  Pierre  Trudeau,  when  visiting  the  leaders  of  the  dictator- 
ship in  Brazil  also  wore  tennis  shoes  and  that  Fidel  Castro  sported  a pair  to 
protect  his  toes.  Finally,  the  email  relates  the  story  of  an  ex-torture  victim  at 
the  hands  of  the  dictatorship  who  tracks  down  the  famous  military  interroga- 
tor Otavinho  and  shoots  him  with  a shotgun,  selecting  that  weapon  over  a 
pistol  due  to  the  fact  that  Otavinho  had  cut  off  his  index  and  little  finger,  thus 
making  the  use  of  a small  firearm  difficult. 

This  kind  of  writing,  bouncing  from  one  topic  to  another,  each  time 
loosely  related  to  the  overall  point  of  the  text,  is  demonstrative  of  Web  writing 
in  general.  Prata  includes  this  as  a microcosm  of  his  greater  project.  Though  it 
seems  unconnected,  the  various  paragraphs  are  all  related  to  a political  world 
of  capitalism,  power.  North  American  hegemony,  and  iconic  figures  where 
the  most  salient  example  of  the  victim  of  global  capital  is  the  old  man  seeking 
vengeance  with  an  improvised  weapon.  The  damaged  hand  seeking  revenge 
suggests  the  social  activists  of  the  1960s  and  1970s,  who  were  brutally  sup- 
pressed by  the  government  and  have  been  marginalized  ever  since.  As  a meta- 
phor, it  could  also  be  read  as  the  damaged  margins  of  the  body  politic. 

Many  of  the  sections  are  attributed  to  people  that  Mindinho  claims  to 
have  corresponded  with  in  online  chat  rooms.  One  fragment  is  the  result 
of  a Google  search  provided  by  ChrisAngel,  an  anonymous  Web  handle. 
Mindinho  claims:  “A  ChrisAngel  eu  tambem  conheci  num  chat”  (64).  In  her 
search,  ChrisAngel  notes  the  many  children’s  nursery  rhymes  that  feature  the 
little  finger.  The  Internet  search  sifts  through  a myriad  of  information  or  chat- 
ter to  locate  a few  useful  bits  of  information,  in  this  case,  the  little  finger  as  a 
topic  of  nursery  rhyme.  While  the  previous  email  exchange  dealt  with  politics 
and  social  problems,  this  one  takes  the  same  theme,  the  little  finger,  and  finds 
a harmless  children’s  use  for  the  word. 

The  second  half  of  the  album-novel,  titled  “Pesquisas  de  seu  mindinho,” 
is  compiled  from  the  results  of  Mindinho’s  Web  searches.  For  example,  one 
fragment  is  a list  of  nicknames  beginning  with  the  letter  M.  Its  only  connec- 
tion is  that  two  of  the  many  names  are  Mindinho.  Yet  another  fragment  is  a 
list  of  translations  of  Mindinho  into  languages  “[d]o  Esperanto  ao  Japones” 

(200).  He  acts  as  an  intelligencer,  linking  together  the  disparate  pieces  in  his 
prefaces  in  his  search  for  personal  meaning.  This  section  of  fragments  mimics 
the  appearance  of  hypertext.  “Hypertext”  is  defined  by  George  Landow  and 
Paul  Delaney  as  the  computerized  manifestation  of  a text,  with  new  capabili- 
ties and  characteristics:  “We  can  define  Hypertext  as  the  use  of  the  computer 


GEORGE  ARTHUR  CARLSEN 


268 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


to  transcend  the  linear,  bounded  and  fixed  qualities  of  the  traditional  writ- 
ten text”  [Hypermedia  3).  Landow  and  Delaney  describe  a process  that  has 
become  prevalent  in  Internet  culture.  New  media  differentiates  itself  from 
conventional  writing  in  that  it  has  active  links  to  other  texts  that  allow  the 
user  to  make  choices  about  how  they  will  read  the  narrative.  Landow  and 
Delaney  explain: 

Unlike  the  static  form  of  the  book,  a hypertext  can  be  composed,  and  read,  non- 
sequentially;  it  is  a variable  structure,  composed  of  blocks  of  text  (or  what  Roland 
Barthes  terms  lexia)  and  the  electronic  links  that  join  them.  Although  conven- 
tional reading  habits  apply  within  each  block,  once  one  starts  to  follow  links  from 
one  block  to  another  new  rules  and  new  experience  apply.  (3) 

A hypertext,  following  this  argument,  is  not  restricted  to  traditional  prac- 
tices of  reading  and  writing.  Buscando  o seu  mindinho  prints  its  hypertext 
links  and  the  reader  has  no  ability  to  adjust  the  reading  path;  nevertheless,  the 
description  of  the  hypertext  is  relevant  to  a discussion  of  Pratas  novel  because 
his  novel  mimics  the  appearance  of  hypertext. 

An  example  of  this  mimicry  is  a fragment  of  Buscando  o seu  mindinho  sup- 
posedly taken  from  a blog  with  the  source  websites  listed  in  case  the  reader 
should  like  to  continue  reading.  While  these  citations  do  mimic  the  action  of 
hypertext,  as  a paper  document,  the  citation  demonstrates  the  limitations  of 
paper.  In  one  preface  Mindinho  informs  the  reader:  “Este  site  www.bpiropo. 
com  tern  coisas  geniais  escritas  pelo  Piropo.  Vai  aqui  uma  mostra.  A Glorinha 
vive  entrando  nele.  No  site,  nao  no  Piropo!”  (201).  The  link  is  only  mimed  in 
the  paper  album-novel,  and  even  in  the  literary  device  of  the  shoebox  the  notion 
of  including  hyperlinks  is  absurd.  Furthermore,  this  mimicry  presupposes  that 
the  reader  will  have  a computer  with  Internet  access  at  hand.  While  this  mim- 
icry is  problematic,  it  also  comes  packaged  with  the  readers’  expectation  that 
the  novel’s  content  will  reflect  the  wide  mixture  of  media,  genre,  and  narrative 
sources  such  as  disparate  high  and  low  art  forms  common  to  online  content. 

The  mixture  of  high  and  low  art  found  in  various  fragments  of  the  novel  is 
a technique  common  in  recent  years,  though  it  is  roots  can  be  traced  through 
myriad  previous  Latin  American  authors.  Speaking  about  the  use  of  high 
and  low  art  in  the  McOndo  writers  and  La  Onda  in  Spanish  America,  Ana 
Maria  Amar  Sanchez  affirms  that  “‘counterculture’  manifested  by  charac- 
ters and  responsive  to  the  mediating  imaginary  of  the  day  is  distanced  by  a 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


269 


technical-formal  display  reminiscent  of  some  works  of  the  Boom”  (“Deserted 
Cities”  210).  In  many  of  the  experimental  novels  of  the  1990s  and  2000s, 
the  novel  is  written  in  the  language  of  media  where  popular  culture  is  not  a 
referent  of  high  prose,  but  rather  coexists  or  even  overshadows  it.  This  album- 
novel  is  an  example  of  a mixture  of  media  that  refuses  an  easy  hierarchy  of 
high  art  exploiting  popular  culture.  Mindinho  is  not  self-conscious  about  his 
compilation  of  disparate  chatter  into  an  album-novel.  As  an  intelligencer,  he 
takes  that  which  is  useful  to  him  in  the  moment.  As  is  noted  by  Amar  San- 
chez, contemporary  Latin  American  authors  increasingly  approach  popular 
art  and  mass  culture  as  defining  referents  in  their  texts.  Prata  does  not  exhibit 
low  art,  popular  art,  or  mass  media  from  the  perspective  of  high  art,  but 
rather  blurs  genres  and  refuses  to  privilege  the  traditional  hierarchy  of  art  over 
mass  media  or  popular  culture. 

An  example  of  the  loose  positioning  of  high  art  with  low  art  is  the  place- 
ment as  the  last  two  fragments  of  the  novel  of  a poem  by  Federico  Garda 
Lorca  after  a treatment  of  “As  aguas  vao  rolar”  (79),  a telenovela  that  Min- 
dinho claims  is  designed  for  Rede  Globo.  The  plotline  of  the  proposed  tele- 
novela  revolves  around  two  rival  cities;  Das  Pedras,  a modern  and  industrial 
city  on  the  other  side  of  a river  from  Rio  Bonito,  a refined  city  proud  of  its 
traditions.  The  rivalry  between  the  cities  is  exacerbated  by  the  visitation  of 
an  alien  who  impregnates  Stella  Maris,  the  most  beautiful  girl  in  Das  Pedras. 
The  resulting  child’s  only  tell-tale  sign  that  she  is  part  alien  is  a blue  little 
finger.  The  story  then  abounds  with  seductions  and  backstabbing  among  a 
plethora  of  stock  characters.  The  storyline  is  full  of  options;  Mindinho  pro- 
vides detailed  lists  of  possible  outcomes  for  the  many  characters  explicitly 
naming  plot  devices  from  Citizen  Kane,  Romeo  and  Juliet,  and  Lysistrata.  The 
plot  mimics  the  way  the  telenovela  genre  appropriates  popular  narratives  into 
large  webs  anchored  by  a few  central  characters  and  a peripheral  constellation 
of  secondary,  two-dimensional  characters.  On  the  heels  of  the  screenplay  for 
the  telenovela,  and  in  contrast  to  its  popular  origins,  is  a fragment  of  the  poem 
“Menino  mudo”  by  Garda  Lorca.  The  word  mindinho  is  the  only  connection 
to  the  other  fragments  and  the  poem  appears  to  have  been  translated  by  the 
narrator  to  serve  as  a capstone  to  the  entire  work:  “Nao  a quero  para  falar;  / 
farei  com  ela  um  anelzinho  / que  o meu  silencio  levara  / no  dedo,  no  seu  dedo 
mindinho'  (241-2).  The  lack  of  self-consciousness  on  the  part  of  the  editorial 
voice  to  note  the  contrasts  in  style  is  demonstrative  of  a process  of  blurring 
the  boundaries  of  high  and  low  art;  the  telenovela  is  made  equal  to  canonical 


GEORGE  ARTHUR  CARLSEN 


270 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


poetry,  and  this  contrast  demonstrates  the  trend  in  Latin  American  novels 
since  the  1990s  to  freely  mix  high  and  low  art,  languages,  genres,  and  media. 

Across  the  many  disparate  fragments,  some  common  themes  emerge,  such 
as  the  questioning  and  ridiculing  of  a conflation  of  Brazilian  national  identity 
as  composed  solely  of  European  roots  and  extreme  heteronormativity.  Brazilian 
national  character  is  explored  in  many  of  the  fragments  of  text  either  under  the 
guise  ol  a sexual  fantasy  or  as  a historical  fiction.  Mindinho  collects  fragments 
that,  in  their  sum,  describe  a people  hypocritically  exporting  hyperbolic  myths 
of  sexual  potency  and  control  while  constantly  subverting  their  own  sexual  rules 
and  prohibitions.  Brazilian  history  is  seen  in  this  light  as  potential  carnival  boil- 
ing under  the  surface  of  facades  of  Brazilian  male  sexual  dominance. 

A distinct  Brazilian  nature,  characterized  by  Portuguese  traditions  and 
rabid  sexual  desire  muffled  by  half-hearted  morality  is  depicted  in  the  final 
two  fragments  of  part  one.  The  erotic  story  “O  Carneirinho”  (133),  attrib- 
uted to  a fictitious  Cabo  Verdian  Germano  Almeida,  describes  the  sexual  con- 
fusion of  a visiting  Brazilian.  Carneirinho  is  a Brazilian  visiting  the  narrator 
of  the  story  in  Cabo  Verde,  a place  “conhecido  em  todo  o mundo  pela  sua 
morabeza,  sua  ternura  e mulheres  boas  e onde  tu  mesmo  reconheces  que  a 
bunda  abunda”  (134).  Their  conversation  drifts  towards  broad  categoriza- 
tions of  Brazilian  high  sexual  self-esteem  versus  Cabo  Verdian  high  sexual  self- 
esteem. Germano  affirms  that  Carneirinho  “estava  apaixondado  por  mim, 
ascrescentando  de  seguida  que  ficasse,  porem,  descansado  porque  ele  nao  era 
bicha”  (134).  Germano  challenges  Carneirinho’s  sexual  boasting  and  invites 
his  friend  Marta  to  be  the  judge  of  a sexual  duel.  Marta  gladly  accepts  but  is 
disillusioned  by  Carneirinho’s  refusal  to  compete: 

[L]amentou  o reacionarismo  sexual  do  Carneirinho.  Os  brasileiros  tern  tantas 
manias  de  que  sao  bons,  disse  ela,  passam  o tempo  a afirmar  que  sao  uns  machoes 
de  primeira,  e este  aqui  tern  a oportunidade  de  o provar  e recusa  participar  uma 
menage  a trios  em  competi^ao  directa  com  um  caboverdeano.  (135) 

Disappointed,  Marta  begins  to  taunt  Carneirinho:  “[A] final  o Brasil  e 
so  futebol  e telenoveld'  (135).  When  Carneirinho  accepts,  his  sexual  perfor- 
mance with  Marta  is  a disaster.  With  Marta’s  assistance,  the  narrator  begins 
a step-by-step  tutorial  for  the  Brazilian’s  benefit,  which  culminates  in  Car- 
neirinho demanding  to  be  penetrated  by  the  impressive  Cabo  Verdian.  The 
political  metaphor  occasions  the  pornographic  content. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  271 

While  in  most  cases,  the  metaphoric,  situational  vehicle  of  an  erotic  story  is 
of  negligible  importance  to  the  libidinal  intent,  this  story,  in  its  context,  is  the 
reverse.  The  tropes  of  pornography  are  parodied  by  these  characters.  The  flimsy 
set-up  to  the  graphic  sexual  encounter  is,  in  fact,  the  point  of  the  story.  Carneir- 
inho  is  a metaphor  for  the  export  of  Brazilian  national  identity.  As  a representa- 
tive Brazilian,  he  describes  himself  as  being  virile,  unwaveringly  heterosexual, 
and  more  than  just  “futebol  e telenovela'"  The  reality,  as  discovered  by  the  narra- 
tor, is  that  Carneirinho  demonstrates  an  inhibited  facade  of  stereotypes  in  spite 
of  being  thoroughly  bisexual.  The  story  serves  as  a parody  of  Brazilian  national 
identity  by  demonstrating  that  the  trope  of  the  virile  Brazilian  male  is  a fantasy. 

In  a great  number  of  the  fragments  of  the  text,  female  sexuality  is  dealt 
with  in  an  objectified  and  exaggerated  manner.  The  notion  of  sexuality  in 
general  is  an  urgent  topic  for  Mindinho  and  he  specifically  describes  his 
sexual  prowess  in  a fragment  he  refers  to  in  his  preface  as  “minha  historia 
policial,”  entitled  “Mindinho — bom  de  cama”  (118).  This  detective-fiction 
parody  describes  his  interrogation  as  the  accused  in  the  murder  of  Dona  Ana 
Blanche,  an  adulterous  housewife.  Doutor  Capella,  the  hardnosed  prosecu- 
tor, begins  Mindinho’s  interrogation  with  an  accusation  of  guilt  in  the  sexual 
assault  and  stabbing  of  Dona  Ana  that  mimics  the  ubiquitous  scene  of  police 
questioning  that  is  an  essential  component  of  the  genre  of  detective  fiction. 

Doutor  Capella  growls: 

Meu  amigo,  a dona  Ana  Blanche  foi  esfaqueada  brutalmente.  No  quarto  dela 
foram  encontradas  mostras  de  esperma  (muitas!)  por  todo  lado.  Porra  sua,  porra! 

No  cabelo,  no  nariz,  nos  seios,  no  umbigo,  nas  costas.  Impressao  digital  ate  no 
congelador.  Voce  esta  fodido,  cara!  ( 1 20) 

In  his  own  defense,  Mindinho  describes  why  his  DNA  could  be  found 
all  over  the  victim  and  the  room:  “Para  me  safar  daquilo  eu  deveria  contar 
algo  muito  I'ntimo,  o meu  segredo  de  alcova,  o meu  segredo  de  bom  de  cama. 

O meu  segredo  de  levar  as  mulheres  a orgasmos  hipermiiltiplos”  (121).  Mindi- 
nho then  describes  how  he  had  been  having  an  ongoing  affair  with  Dona  Ana. 

The  story  is  a fantasy  of  sexual  prowess  that,  in  its  extremity,  implies  a deep 
sexual  insecurity.  He  admits  to  the  detective  that  he  is  not  well  endowed  but 
that  his  special  hand  and  handiwork  have  made  him  a success  among  women; 
though  he  is  left  to  satisfy  himself  post-act.  The  fragment  clearly  parodies 
the  genre  of  pornography  and  points  toward  the  underlying  metaphor  of  an 


GEORGE  ARTHUR  CARLSEN 


272 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


impotent  finger  in  the  place  of  a phallus.  The  character’s  sexual  insufficiency 
is  made  up  ffir  by  the  fantasy  prosthesis  and,  by  extension,  the  myth  of  the 
insatiable  and  potent  Brazilian  male  lover  is  ridiculed. 

Shortly  thereafter,  Mindinho  provides  an  essay  in  homage  to  a pioneer 
of  the  feminist  movement  in  Portugal  titled  “Quern  tern  medo  de  Florbela 
Espanca?”  (125).  The  essay  catalogues  Florbela’s  accomplishments  as  a poet 
and  artist  during  the  1920s.  While  in  previous  fragments,  male  sexual  prow- 
ess is  hyperbolized  and  ridiculed,  this  fragment  chronicles  the  writings,  mar- 
riages, and  sex  scandals  of  a pioneering  female  artist.  As  an  epitaph  for  Flor- 
bela, Mindinho  quotes  her  final  words: 

Sou  paga  e anarquista,  como  nao  poderia  deixar  de  ser  uma  pantera  que  se  preza. 

Nem  saude,  nem  dinheiro,  nem  libertade.  A Pantera  esta  enjaulada  e bem  enjau- 

lada,  ate  que  a morte  Ihe  venha  cerrar  os  olhos....  (131) 

Mindinho’s  essay  is  profoundly  sympathetic  to  Florbela;  indeed,  he  empa- 
thizes with  Florbela’s  inability  to  succeed  with  her  artistic  endeavors  during 
her  lifetime.  Florbela  became  an  important  writer  only  after  her  death,  and 
her  poems  were  reappraised  as  masterpieces.  As  time  passes,  her  fame  in- 
creases, and  Mindinho  chronicles  her  enshrinement  into  the  literary  establish- 
ment: “Em  1964,  finalmente,  o arcebispo  de  Evora  reconhece  Florbela  como 
uma  grande  escritora”  (131).  Her  entrance  into  the  canon  after  her  death  is 
depicted  in  glowing  terms,  even  gaining  the  approval  of  the  Catholic  Church, 
which  had  previously  condemned  her  for  her  scandalous  love  life.  Mindinho 
sees  Florbela  as  a role-model.  The  disastrous  events  of  her  life,  poor  health, 
and  many  romantic  upheavals  all  aid  her  in  the  construction  of  her  texts, 
which  are  richer  for  her  misery.  Mindinho  lauds  Florbela  and  reveals  a similar 
desire  for  celebrity  and  success.  The  act  of  compiling  the  failed  artistic  works 
of  a lifetime  into  a shoebox  and  begging  for  them  to  be  published  as  a last 
request  before  death  denotes  a desperation  and  a hope  to  follow  Florbela  into 
achieving  social  relevance,  albeit  post-mortem. 

Mindinho’s  body  is  a site  for  the  expression  of  parody  of  national  identity. 
His  genealogical  research  leads  him  through  an  account  of  escape  from  slavery 
in  his  search  for  the  first  instance  of  the  inherited  trait  of  the  missing  finger. 
Mindinho  provides  a family  history  about  his  ancestors,  who  arrived  in  Brazil 
near  the  end  of  the  importation  of  slaves.  In  his  preface,  Mindinho  claims  that 
his  great  grandfather,  Vo  Brico  (short  for  Grandfather  Fabrkio),  born  in  1850 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


273 


and  deceased  in  1920,  was  a slave  on  a plantation  near  Rio  de  Janeiro.  His  job 
on  the  fazenda  was  to  impregnate  slave  women  whose  children  were  then  sold. 
The  story  itself,  “As  margens  do  Rio”  (21),  is  attributed  to  the  great  grandfather, 
though  Mindinho  claims  to  have  updated  the  prose  in  some  places. 

After  a child  is  born  without  a little  finger,  the  slave  owner  beats  Brico  and 
places  him  in  domestic  service  where  he  came  into  contact  with  his  daugh- 
ter Sinhazinha.  Brico  and  Sinhazinha  illicitly  have  a little-fingerless  child 
together  and  flee  to  Rio  de  Janeiro,  where  Sinhazinha  leaves  him  with  the 
child.  Vo  Brico  reflects  on  his  mulato  children  and  grandchildren,  who  range 
from  black  to  white,  but  all  missing  the  little  finger  on  their  right  hand.  Meta- 
phorically speaking,  Prata  is  describing  a Brazilian  society  that  has  not  yet  fin- 
ished processing  its  history  of  injustice  as  represented  by  the  hereditary  miss- 
ing little  finger.  The  endlessly  missing  little  finger  is  a psychological  scapegoat 
that  blinds  the  characters  from  appreciating  their  own  agency  in  their  future. 

Mindinho  simultaneously  posits  that  the  missing  little  finger  is  descended 
from  Portugal  in  the  section,  “A  procissao  dos  nus.”  In  this  story,  set  in  fif- 
teenth-century Portugal,  a young  doctor  goes  on  a religious  pilgrimage  where 
all  of  the  pilgrims  walk  nude  to  visit  the  tomb  of  a saint.  The  young  doc- 
tor, lacking  a little  finger,  is  interested  in  joining  the  procession  to  see  naked 
women.  He  states:  “[Cjome^aram  a rolar  tanta  indecencia,  galhofa  e riso  e 
todo  tipo  de  sacanagem”  (143).  A religious  event  subverted  into  a libidinous 
sexual  holiday  corresponds  to  Bakhtin’s  notion  of  the  carnival  and  is  poignant 
when  speaking  of  a Brazilian  culture  where  carnival  is  the  most  important 
event  of  the  year.  Bakhtin  avers:  “[A]  11  were  considered  equal  during  carnival. 
Here,  in  the  town  square,  a special  form  of  free  and  familiar  contact  reigned 
among  people  who  were  usually  divided  by  the  barriers  of  caste,  property, 
profession,  and  age”  (10).  The  prurient  story  tells  how  the  young  doctor 
tricks  an  attractive  woman  by  rubbing  goat  feces  on  her  aching  belly  and  sug- 
gesting that  he  provide  a sexual  remedy  to  her  pains.  They  marry  and  raise  a 
family:  “Ao  nosso  primeiro  filho,  o concebido  na  epoca  de  esterco  de  cabra, 
demos  o nome  de  Cabral.  Cabral  Pedro  Alvares  que,  desde  pequeninho,  gos- 
tava  de  brincar  com  barquinhos  de  papel  e madeira”  (148).  The  Portuguese 
conquistador  and  founder  of  the  political,  economic,  and  religious  colony  of 
Brazil,  Pedro  Alvares  Cabral,  according  to  this  story,  is  the  product  of  carni- 
val. The  European  side  to  Brazil’s  history  is  implied  to  be  based  in  carnival 
and  sexual  mischief  The  inference  to  be  drawn  is  that  from  the  slaves  to  the 
conquistadors,  all  of  Brazil  lacks  the  little  finger. 


GEORGE  ARTHUR  CARLSEN 


274 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


The  nature  of  the  little  finger-failure  metaphor  is  explored  in  another 
fragment  in  which  Mindinho  relates  a story  told  to  him  by  the  ex-governor 
of  Pernambuco  about  the  origin  of  the  habit  of  letting  one’s  little  fingernail 
grow  out.  In  1 888,  according  to  the  story,  a self-proclaimed  professional  heir, 
Zeca  Junqueiro,  lets  his  fingernail  grow  long  to  demonstrate  that  he  has  never 
worked  with  his  hands.  To  his  friends  Zeca  brags: 

Senhores,  isso  aqui — e hirtava  o mindinho,  orgulhoso,  soberbo — e a prova 
definitiva  que  eu  continuo  a nao  trabalhar.  E um  simbolo.  E a marca  registrada 
da  ociosidade  de  nos,  os  ricos,  os  que  podemos.  Aconselho-os  a fazer  o mesmo. 
Assim,  ao  nos  verem,  pensarao:  ali  esta  um  brasileiro  bem-sucedido:  nunca  traba- 
Ihou!  Status,  amigos.  (49) 

While  in  the  story  the  rich  hyperbolically  grow  out  their  little  fingernails 
to  demonstrate  their  laziness,  the  transcriber  of  the  anecdote,  Mindinho,  does 
not  even  have  a little  finger.  The  narrative  parodies  the  elite  with  their  use- 
less fingernails,  but  it  also  parodies  Mindinho’s  despondency.  While  the  rich 
proudly  flaunt  the  symbol  of  their  idleness,  Mindinho  believes  that  he  cannot 
succeed  at  any  job  because  of  the  curse  of  his  missing  finger.  This  notion  of  a 
psychological  block  based  on  a physical  trait  (the  finger  and  slavery)  that  pre- 
vents any  progress  is  confronted  by  Gloria  and  by  Mindinho  himself  as  they 
near  death.  Mindinho  recalls  Gloria’s  last  words  before  succumbing  to  cancer: 
“A  Glorinha,  na  vespara  de  morrer,  depois  de  dias  em  coma,  abriu  os  olhos 
e — olhando  no  fundo  de  mim — disse:  ‘Nao  deixe  o Fabricio  ter  complexos. 
Isso  vai  acabar  com  a esposa  dele”  (46).  Her  concern  for  Fabricio  is  a reflection 
of  metaphoric  concern  for  the  continuity  of  a psychological  problem  passed 
down  from  the  father.  If  Mindinho  is  the  failed  present,  Gloria  fears  Fabricio 
will  follow  in  his  father’s  ways.  The  fact  that  Mindinho  has  asked  for  the  prof- 
its of  the  publication  of  his  neurosis  to  be  used  by  Fabricio  in  his  education 
implies  that,  while  the  trait  is  indeed  passed  on,  the  psychological  trauma 
associated  with  the  lack  of  the  little  finger  need  not  be  extended  to  his  son. 

The  notion  of  a Brazilian  identity  superior  to  that  of  other  Latin  Ameri- 
can nations  is  parodied  in  a screenplay  for  an  American  western  cowboy-style 
telenovela  entitled  “Bangue-bangue”  attributed  to  Prata’s  pseudonym  Gampos 
de  Moraes."^  The  annotated  screenplay  includes  camera  instructions  and  scene 
changes.  The  only  relationship  to  the  little  finger  is  that  there  are  characters 
named  Mindyn  and  Moreno  who  own  a saloon  named  “Mindyn&O.”  The  story 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


275 


is  full  of  the  usual  old  west  character  tropes  and  parodies  Western  plotlines  and 
situations.  In  parody  of  the  Lone  Ranger,  the  new  sheriff  Ben  Silver  approaches 
Albuquerque  with  his  sidekick,  Pablo.  Pablo  is  a Mexican  servant  and  parodies 
the  character  Tonto  from  the  Lone  Ranger  television  show.  The  character  speaks 
Spanish  and  is  described  as  dirty,  lazy,  and  cowardly.  After  a long  ride,  he  tells 
his  boss:  “A  mi,  me  gustaria  mucho  drumir  tod  el  dia,  senor  Silver”  [sic],  to 
which  Ben  Silver  authoritatively  responds  in  Portuguese:  “Estamos  ainda  muito 
longe  de  nosso  destino,  Pablo.  Andiamos!”  (161).  By  sleight  of  hand,  the  supe- 
rior figure  of  the  Western  stereotype  becomes  a manly  Brazilian  and  the  Hispanic 
sidekicks  inferiority  becomes  a joke  on  the  traditional  xenophobia  and  bigotry  of 
the  racist  Western  genre.  The  reader  is  in  on  the  joke  that,  by  making  Ben  Silver 
both  an  extremely  masculine  Brazilian  and  a racist  American  cowboy,  the  easy 
parody  of  the  cowboy  extends  to  cover  the  notion  of  Brazilian  heteronormativity. 

The  casting  of  the  character  of  Big  Mother,  the  strong-willed  black  mammy 
of  Ben  Silver  s love  interest  also  subverts  the  Western  genre  in  addition  to  the 
stereotype  of  Brazilian  machismo.  Mindinho  suggests  in  an  author’s  note: 
“Big  Mother — uma  preta  velha...  que  poderia  ser  interpretada  pelo  Grande 
Otelo....  Uma  dupla  muito  engra^ada”  (163).  Grande  Otelo  (who  died  in 
1993)  is  one  of  the  most  famous  Brazilian  actors  of  the  twentieth  century 
and  played  the  title  role  in  the  1969  movie  adaptation  of  Mario  de  Andrade’s 
1928  national  epic  Macunaima,  which  is  itself  a novel  that  parodies  many 
tropes  of  Brazilian  nationality.  Notions  of  heterosexual  masculine  dominance 
conflated  with  national  identity  are  ready  targets  for  Prata’s  parody. 

In  conclusion,  as  an  album-novel,  Buscando  o seu  mindinho  employs  the 
technique  of  bricolage  to  mimic  the  hypertext  format  of  Internet  writing. 
In  this  critique,  I have  proposed  that  Prata’s  fragmented  texts  of  multimedia 
content  threaded  together  can  be  recognized  as  an  album-novel.  In  a more 
linear  narrative  it  would  be  difficult  to  relate  a historical  anecdote  about  the 
origins  of  the  long  fingernail,  a chronicle  of  slavery,  a pornographic  short 
story,  and  a Portuguese  carnival.  All  of  the  fragments  relate  the  little  finger  to 
notions  of  Brazilian  historical  and  contemporary  culture,  achieving  a critique 
of  Brazilian  national  identity,  its  colonial  roots  and  enduring  myths  of  male 
sexuality.  Mimicry  of  the  hypertext  allows  Prata  to  subvert  a multitude  of 
traditional  tropes  and  genres  and  to  merge  high  and  low  art.  The  unifying 
thread  between  so  many  disparate  pieces,  the  little  finger,  signals  lack  and 
failure;  nevertheless,  it  also  represents  difference  and  celebrates  postmodern 
sexual  contradictions  and  genre  breakdowns. 


GEORGE  ARTHUR  CARLSEN 


276 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


There  are  some  unresolved  questions  regarding  Prata’s  choice  to  write  in 
this  manner.  For  example,  why  does  Prata  only  mimic  the  randomness  of 
the  hypertext?  Why  does  he  finally  publish  on  paper  what  he  has  already 
made  available  online?  One  of  Landow  and  Delaney’s  conclusions  regarding 
paper  and  pixel  is  that  paper  publication  provides  the  author  with  control 
and  remuneration.  The  fact  that  Prata  extracted  a section  of  the  album  and 
sold  the  telenovela  treatment  “Bangue-bangue”  to  Rede  Globo  reinforces  the 
commercial  underpinnings  of  the  narrative.  Buscando  o sen  mindinho  demon- 
strates the  changing  role  of  the  author  as  a compositor,  an  editorial  presence 
who  assembles  as  well  as  creates  fiction. 


Notes 

' Besame  mucho  won  awards  for  best  script  in  the  Gramado,  Cartagena,  and  Figueira  da  Foz 
Film  Festivals  in  1991. 

^ The  myriad  fan  groups  who  clamored  for  a change  of  direction  in  the  plot  of  the  televi- 
sion show  represent  the  largest  body  of  critics  of  Mario  Prata’s  work,  numbering  into  the  thou- 
sands on  website  fan  communities  such  as  Orkut.  Maria  Carmem  Jacob  de  Souza,  in  a study 
of  telenovela  fan  groups  known  as  fas,  describes  the  notoriety  of  Prata’s  firing  from  Bang-bang. 
Jacob  de  Souza  affirms:  “Um  outro  episodio,  tambem  fresco  na  memoria,  e a demanda  por 
um  ‘escritor’ — autor  de  sucesso  do  horario  das  sete  da  TV  Globo  para  enfrentar  problemas  de 
audiencia  na  telenovela  ‘Bang-bang,’  para  muitos  agravados  com  a saida  do  autor-escritor  logo 
nas  primeiras  semanas  [...].  [Pjroblemas  na  equipe  de  escritores  relacionam-se  ao  ‘abandono’  de 
Mario  Prata  que  nao  resguardou  a equipe  dos  erros.” 

^ On  page  12  Prata  explains  the  misspelling  of  Fabricio,  which  would  have  been  Mindinho’s 
legal  name,  had  the  local  authorities  not  written  down  Fabrico  by  mistake. 

^ “Bangue-bangue”  was  produced  in  2006  as  Bang-Bang  by  TV  Globo  and  has  been  noted 
as  one  of  the  most  disastrous  productions  in  Brazilian  telenovela  history  by  Marla  Carmem  Jacob 
de  Souza. 


Works  Cited 

Amar  Sanchez,  Ana  Marla.  “Deserted  Cities:  Pop  and  Disenchantment  in  Turn-of-the-Century 
Latin  American  Narrative.”  Latin  American  Literature  and  Mass  Media.  Ed.  Edmundo  Paz 
Soldan  and  Debra  A.  Castillo.  New  York:  Garland,  2001.  Print. 

Bakhtin,  Mikhail.  Rabelais  and  His  World.  Austin:  U Texas  P,  1982.  Print. 

Jacob  de  Souza,  Maria  Carmem.  “Fas  de  autores  de  telenovelas  brasileiras.”  Associa^ao  Nacional 
dos  Programas  de  P6s-Gradua(;ao  em  Comunica^ao,  UNESP,  Bauru,  Sao  Paulo.  9 July 
2006.  Published  conference  paper,  PDF  file.  Web. 

Landow,  George,  and  Paul  Delaney.  Hypermedia  and  Literary  Studies.  Cambridge:  MIT  Press, 
1991.  Print. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


277 


Prata,  Mario.  Buscando  o seu  mindinho.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Editora  Objetiva,  2002.  Print. 

Primo,  i\lex.  “Quao  interativo  e o hipertexto?:  da  interface  potencial  a escrita  coletiva.” 
Fronteiras:  Estudos  Medidticos  5 .2  (2003):  125-142.  Print. 


George  Arthur  Carlsen  is  an  assistant  professor  of  Hispanic  studies  at  Pepperdine 
University  in  Malibu,  California.  He  teaches  Latin  American  literature,  culture,  and 
language.  He  has  previously  published  on  Bruna  Surfistinha’s  use  of  technology  in  the 
creation  of  celebrity  and  legitimacy  of  authorship.  Carlsen’s  current  research  interests 
include  border  studies  and  the  narrative  of  Roberto  Bolano  as  well  as  continuing  work 
on  album-style  narratives  in  both  Hispanic  America  and  Brazil.  Email:  George.carlsen@ 
pepperdine.edu 


GEORGE  ARTHUR  CARLSEN 


li 


‘I'- .‘"J-iW  ■ '■• 


i 


• ♦ 

♦v- w** , 


I 


r»if. 


"Tradigoes  evanescentes":  A ficdonalizagao  do  discurso 
cientifico  racialista  no  regionalismo  literario  brasileiro 


Luciana  Murari 


Abstract.  This  article  examines  the  assimilation  of  racial  discourse  in 
Brazilian  regionalist  literature  in  the  first  decades  of  the  twentieth  century, 
focusing  on  the  convergence  between  the  discourses  of  sociology  and 
literary  fiction.  By  virtue  of  its  incorporation  into  literary  plots  concerned 
with  describing  the  practices,  attitudes,  and  ways  of  life  of  the  poor  in 
the  Brazilian  backlands,  the  discourse  of  the  social  sciences,  transformed 
into  a popularized  and  diffuse  worldview,  participated  actively  in  the 
construction  of  the  image  of  the  people  by  the  country’s  intellectual 
elite.  This  image,  with  its  stress  on  the  mestizo  condition,  questioned  the 
racially  mixed  poor’s  ability  to  adapt  to  modernity. 


Tradi^oes  evanescentes 

A chamada  “gera9ao  de  1870”  brasileira  adotou  como  programa  a supera^ao 
do  pensamento  metafisico  e da  forma^ao  filosofica  ecletica  ate  entao  predo- 
minantes  nas  institui^oes  de  ensino  superior  do  pais,  em  prol  da  difusao  do 
moderno  conhecimento  cientifico.  A partir  do  uso  de  urn  instrumental  teo- 
rico  baseado  em  escolas  como  o positivismo,  o spencerismo,  o darwinismo 
social  e a antropologia  criminal,  esta  elite  letrada  assumiu  o grande  projeto 
de  reinterpretar  o Brasil,  nao  mais  a partir  da  tradi^ao  imperial  e da  continui- 
dade  com  as  origens  lusitanas,  mas  por  meio  de  formula^oes  pretensamente 
objetivas,  fundamentadas  na  manipula^ao  de  teorias  explicativas  naturalistas. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  279-294. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


280 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


baseadas  no  principio  da  iinicidade  entre  sociedade  e natureza.  A defini^ao 
da  idcntidade  nacional  passoii  a ser  condicionada  pelo  olhar  cientifico,  que 
buscava  descrever,  explicar  e,  desta  forma,  transformar  o Brasil,  de  modo  a 
integra-lo  a dita  “civiliza^ao.” 

Apropriado  pelos  intelectuais  como  fonte  de  conceitos  e modelos  a serem 
adaptados  ao  caso  brasileiro,  o cientificismo  europeu  acabou  por  tornar-se 
Lima  visao  do  mundo  ampla  e imprecisa.  A partir  do  final  do  seculo  XIX,  che- 
goii  a atingir  inclusive  um  publico  de  instru^ao  mais  limitada,  sobretudo  nas 
cidades,  condensando-se  em  torno  de  alguns  conceitos  genericos  apreendidos 
principalmente  atraves  de  obras  de  divulga9ao  e da  imprensa.  Na  decada  de 
1 880,  quando  o Realismo-Naturalismo  tornou-se  o paradigma  da  produ^ao 
literaria,  a fic^ao  passou  a convergir  decisivamente  com  o pensamento  cientf- 
fico,  como  campo  para  a expressao  de  ideias,  representa9ao  e significa^ao  da 
realidade.  Neste  texto,  trataremos  da  ficcionaliza^ao  de  um  dos  temas  maiores 
do  debate  da  epoca:  a dinamica  racial  do  povo  brasileiro,  que,  no  caso  especf- 
fico  da  literatura  regionalista,  tern  como  cenario  as  comunidades  rurais. 

Num  momento  de  grandes  inflexoes  poh'ticas  e sociais,  notadamente  a 
aboli9ao  da  escravatura,  em  1888,  e o advento  da  repiiblica,  no  ano  seguinte, 
a ciencia  converteu-se  em  uma  linguagem  capaz  de  conferir  a realidade  brasi- 
leira  uma  nova  inteligibilidade.  A perspectiva  da  formagao,  doravante  de  longa 
permanencia  na  vida  intelectual  do  pafs,  implantou-se  a partir  do  exame  de 
sens  condicionamentos  ambientais  e raciais.  Embora  o chamado  determi- 
nismo  geografico  tenha  tido  uma  repercussao  nao  desprezfvel  como  modelo 
para  a interpreta^ao  da  realidade  brasileira,  o aspecto  racial  foi  de  fato  privi- 
legiado,  em  fun^ao  da  extin^ao  do  regime  servil  e do  estfmulo  a imigra^ao 
europeia,  que  impunham  a urgencia  de  refletir  sobre  a presen^a  do  negro  e 
sobre  a mudan^a  no  perfil  etnico  da  popula^ao  do  pafs.  Alem  disto,  a presen^a 
dos  descendentes  indfgenas,  e de  sens  mestizos,  tornava  ainda  mais  complexo 
o panorama  racial  brasileiro. 

A obra  Os  sertoes,  de  Euclides  da  Cunha,  publicada  em  1902,  e um  marco 
da  fixa^ao  do  discurso  raciologico  entre  a intelectualidade  brasileira.  O autor 
constroi  stia  interpreta^ao  da  guerra  de  Canudos,  ocorrida  entre  1896  e 1897, 
a partir  de  princfpios  cientificistas  que  explicavam  a determinaq:ao  exercida 
pelas  condi9oes  geograficas  e raciais  sobre  a dinamica  das  sociedades.  Sua 
interpreta^ao  do  conflito  entre  a popula^ao  do  Arraial  de  Canudos  e o exercito 
republicano  foi,  ainda,  fortemente  influenciada  pela  psicologia  das  multidoes 
e pelas  teorias  criminologicas,  subgenero  do  darwinismo  social  entao  bastante 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  281 

em  voga  entre  a elite  letrada  brasileira.  Euclides  da  Cunha  nao  se  limitou  a 
narrar  a guerra,  pois  buscou  elaborar  uma  leitura  cientifica  propria  acerca  do 
problema  nacional  brasileiro,  centrada  na  dualidade  entre  o “sertao” — termo 
amplo  que  designava  as  regioes  insuladas  do  interior  brasileiro — e o “lito- 
ral”— definidor  das  regioes  de  economia  mais  dinamica  e dos  nucleos  urbanos 
da  costa.  Esta  oposigao,  fundamentada  nas  analises  geografica  e etnica,  traduz, 
decerto,  uma  contraposi(;ao  entre  a tradi9ao  e a modernidade. 

A ruptura  da  visao  unitaria  da  realidade  brasileira  causou  profunda  impres- 
sao  entre  os  contemporaneos  de  Euclides  da  Cunha.  Os  intelectuais  brasileiros 
assumiram,  a partir  de  entao,  a tarefa  de  incorporar  estes  sertoes  a cultura  nacio- 
nal, na  perspectiva  do  processo  de  moderniza^ao.  Mas  o fazem  de  modo  bastante 
dubio.  Ao  mesmo  tempo  em  que  recrimina  a violencia  do  exercito  republicano 
contra  a popula^ao  de  Canudos,  a obra  de  Euclides  da  Cunha  implanta  a ideia 
de  que  sua  destrui^ao  era  inevitavel,  dado  seu  atraso  cultural,  sua  instabilidade 
etnica,  e sua  decorrente  incapacidade  de  sobreviver  ao  processo  modernizador: 

O jagun^o  destemeroso,  o tabareu  ingenuo  e o caipira  simplorio  serao  em  breve 
tipos  relegados  as  tradi^oes  evanescentes,  ou  extintas. 

Primeiros  efeitos  de  variados  cruzamentos,  destinavam-se  talvez  a forma^ao 
dos  principios  imediatos  de  uma  grande  ra<;a.  Faltou-lhes,  porem,  uma  situa^ao 
de  parada,  o equilibrio,  que  Ihes  nao  permite  mais  a velocidade  adquirida  pela 
rrtarcha  dos  povos  neste  seculo.  Retardatarios  hoje,  amanha  se  extinguirao  de 
todo.  {Os  sertoes  ^5) 

Esta  “senten^a  de  morte,”  verdadeira  expressao  de  um  inamoviVel  credo 
civilizador,  resumia  o sentimento  da  elite  letrada  brasileira  acerca  das  popu- 
la^oes  rurais  do  pais.  O livro  de  Euclides  da  Cunha  seria  lembrado  tanto 
por  sua  valoriza9ao  da  bravura  sertaneja — tributaria  de  uma  interpreta^ao 
racialista  em  torno  da  estabiliza^ao  da  mesti^agem — quanto  por  este  senti- 
mento de  urgencia  associado  a moderniza^ao,  que  teria  como  contrapartida 
a necessidade  de  registro  dos  modos  de  vida  tradicionais,  puramente  brasileiros 
em  sua  essencia,  e pretensamente  fadados  ao  desaparecimento.  Por  um  lado,  o 
interior  brasileiro  denotava  atraso,  obscurantismo  e resistencia  ao  progresso.  Por 
outro,  este  mesmo  interior  era  visto  como  a fonte  da  originalidade  nacional, 
um  “Brasil  profundo,”  livre  da  influencia  corruptora,  alienante  e dissolvente  da 
cultura  moderna.  Este  dilema  nada  tinha  de  especificamente  brasileiro,  refle- 
tindo  a percep9ao  do  advento  da  modernidade  e a busca  da  incorpora9ao  dos 


LUCIANA  MURARI 


282 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


rebrenres  tradicionais  a cultura  nacionalista,  como  patrimonio  coletivo  enrai- 
zado  na  no^ao  de  ancestralidade.  A literatura  rural  escreveu  a longa  despedida 
das  tradi<;6es  rurais  do  pais,  mantendo  o sentimento  de  dubiedade  de  Os  sertoes. 

A reflexao  sobre  as  popula9oes  brasileiras  assumiu  estas  referencias  basicas 
estabelecidas  por  Euclides  da  Cunha,  e teve  como  meio  privilegiado  de  expres- 
sao  a literatura  ficcional.  Para  a analise  da  incorpora^ao  do  temario  racialista  a 
fic^ao  brasileira,  abordaremos  textos  devotados  aos  tipos  humanos  caracteris- 
ticos  de  distintas  regioes  brasileiras:  o centro-sul  de  Monteiro  Lobato,  o Nor- 
deste  de  Rodolfo  Teofilo,  a Amazonia  de  Alberto  Rangel  e o pampa  gaiicho 
de  Alcides  Maya.  Saliente-se  que  o tipo  mais  caracten'stico  desta  literatura  e 
o mestizo  indigena,  tido  como  mais  representativo  da  popula^ao  interiorana 
que  o negro,  em  fungao  do  menor  dinamismo  economico  das  areas  rurais  nao 
incorporadas  a economia  exportadora. 

Ra^a  de  cabocio 

A mais  celebre  representa^ao  do  mestizo  de  origem  indigena  na  literatura 
brasileira  das  primeiras  decadas  do  seculo  XX  e,  sem  diivida,  o Jeca  Tatu,  de 
Monteiro  Lobato,  criado  em  1914.  Em  registro  tragicomico,  o escritor  fez 
uma  descri9ao  mordaz  da  figura  do  homem  pobre  do  centro-sul  rural  do  pais, 
criando  um  arquetipo  que  se  tornaria  uma  das  mais  duradouras  represen- 
ta^oes  do  homem  interiorano  na  cultura  brasileira.  Apelando  para  um  tom 
caricatural  que  deixa  subjacente  o conteudo  raciologico,  o escritor  anotou 
os  principais  elementos  caracten'sticos  dos  modos  de  vida  da  popula^ao  rural 
nesta  regiao:  o nomadismo,  a escassez  material,  o trabalho  esporadico,  a exis- 
tencia  improvisada,  a recusa  a cria^ao  de  animals,  a submissao  do  trabalhador 
pobre  a autoridade  dos  proprietarios,  a incapacidade  de  cria^ao  de  riquezas, 
a dependencia  em  rela9ao  aos  recursos  naturals  imediatamente  dispomVeis,  a 
religiosidade  riistica  e o fundo  supersticioso  de  sua  mentalidade. 

No  que  toca  ao  problema  do  nomadismo,  sabemos  que  a extrema  pre- 
cariedade  das  tecnicas  agn'colas  no  pais,  sobretudo  a generalizada  pratica  da 
queimada,  promovia  um  rapido  esgotamento  da  fertilidade  do  solo,  conver- 
tendo  regioes  de  floresta  em  matagais  inferteis  no  espa90  de  alguns  anos,  o que 
for9ava  as  popula9oes  a periodicos  deslocamentos  em  busca  de  novas  terras. 
A condi9ao  de  infixidez  dos  homens  do  campo  era  ainda  determinada  pelo 
cerceamento  de  seu  acesso  a propriedade  territorial,  o que  os  tornava  susce- 
tiVeis  as  imposi9oes  dos  proprietarios,  que  poderiam  expulsa-los  das  terras 
as  quais  se  incorporavam.  A mobilidade  era,  ao  mesmo  tempo,  necessaria 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


283 


a cria^ao  de  alternativas  de  subsistencia,  ja  que  sua  inser^ao  na  agricultura 
comercial  era  residual  e provisoria.  Para  o escritor,  no  entanto,  o caboclo, 
mestizo  indigena  retratado  na  figura  do  Jeca  Tatu,  era  “nomade  por  for^a  de 
vagos  atavismos,”^  ou  seja,  seu  comportamento  era  determinado  por  um  tra^o 
caracteristico  da  primitiva  cultura  do  nativo  (Lobato,  Urupes  I4l).^  Mobili- 
zando  um  dos  conceitos  chaves  do  darwinismo  social,  o escritor  confere  ao 
tipo  caipira  uma  trajetoria  involutiva,  ao  reves  do  progresso,  representado  pela 
renova9ao  tecnologica  e pelo  ingresso  do  imigrante  italiano. 

Outro  aspecto  enfatizado  pelo  autor  em  sua  caracteriza^ao  do  tipo  caboclo 
e a extrema  carencia  de  objetos  de  conforto  e bem-estar  material.  A rustici- 
dade  de  sua  moradia,  precariamente  construida  a partir  de  recursos  naturals 
dispomVeis,  era,  de  fato,  coerente  com  a curta  permanencia  de  seu  morador, 
o que,  na  visao  de  Monteiro  Lobato,  explicava-se,  entretanto,  pela  ausencia 
de  disposi^ao  para  o trabalho  e para  a acumula^ao  de  bens,  a “lei  do  menor 
esfor^o.”  Lobato  nao  ve  na  vivencia  caipira  nada  que  classifique  como  cultura 
e,  menos  ainda,  como  arte,  sendo  o caboclo,  segundo  ele,  totalmente  insen- 
sivel  a beleza  e ao  sentimento.  “So  ele  nao  fala,  nao  canta,  nao  ri,  nao  ama.” 
A modinha,  can^ao  popular  tipicamente  brasileira,  e tida  por  ele  como  “obra  do 
mulato,  em  cujas  veias  o sangue  recente  do  europeu,  rico  de  atavismos  esteticos, 
borbulha  d’envolta  com  o sangue  selvagem,  alegre  e sao  do  negro”  (155). 

Em  contraste  com  esta  descri^ao  comparativamente  simpatica  ao  tipo  mulato, 
o caboclo  de  Monteiro  Lobato  e abordado  a partir  de  uma  intrinseca  inferioridade 
fisica,  que  pode  ser  resumida  pelo  termo  “fronteiri^o.”  No  mesmo  livro  em  que 
veio  a publico  este  arquetipo  do  “Jeca,”  ele  foi  encarnado  por  duas  personagens 
ficcionais.  Um  deles  e o Urunduva,  caboclo  “amarelo,  inchado,  a arrastar  a perna” 
(87).  Neste  conto,  o escritor  opoe  o aspecto  da  personagem  a grandiosidade  da 
paineira,  beli'ssima  arvore  que  o caipira  pretendia  vender  para  que  ela  fosse  derru- 
bada  e entao  extraida  sua  libra  natural.  Num  outro  conto,  o Jeca  e representado 
por  Joao  Nunes,  caboclo  indolente  e constantemente  bebado  que  decide  derrubar 
uma  peroba  para  construir  um  monjolo  e assim  melhorar  suas  condiq:6es  mise- 
raveis  de  vida,  vencendo  o invejado  vizinho  bem-sucedido.  Acaba,  entretanto, 
derrotado  em  suas  pretensoes,  seja  por  sua  propria  incapacidade  tecnica  e despre- 
paro  para  o trabalho,  seja  pelo  chamado  “feiti90  do  pau”:  a supersti^ao  sertaneja 
afirmava  que  cada  floresta  tinha  uma  arvore  vingativa  que  castigava  a maldade 
dos  homens  que  a destruiam  (52).  Mais  uma  vez,  o que  define  o homem  pobre 
do  sertao  e seu  conflito  destrutivo  com  a grandiosa  flora  tropical,  tida  por  Mon- 
teiro Lobato  como  em  tudo  superior  ao  raqultico  homem  da  regiao. 


LUCIANA  MURARI 


284 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


O hindo  raciologico  da  cria9ao  de  Lobato  nao  e,  entretanto,  explkito, 
conhindindo-se,  no  caso  da  personagem  Urunduva,  com  a malaria,  e,  no  caso 
do  Nunes,  com  o vi'cio  da  embriaguez.  Mas  se  ha  alguma  duvida  acerca  disco, 
num  artigo  da  mesma  epoca  o escritor  condenava  o uso,  pela  lingua  escrita, 
do  dialeto  do  caipira,  definido  como  “residuo  racial  que  vegeta  nos  sertoes” 
(“Bibliografia”  638).  Entretanto,  em  1918,  quatro  anos  depois  da  cria^ao  do 
Jeca  Tatu,  Lobato  escreveu  um  artigo  em  que  pedia  desculpas  a ele.  Informado 
a respeito  das  endemias  que  grassavam  pelo  meio  rural  brasileiro,  passou  a 
defender  o saneamento  dos  sertoes,  vendo  no  abatimento  do  Jeca  os  sintomas 
de  males  fisicos  perfeitamente  curaveis,  e nao  de  uma  fatalista  degenera^ao 
racial  (“Problema”).  A personagem  Jeca  Tatu  continuou  sendo,  durante  mui- 
tos  anos,  uma  das  mais  recorrentes  representa^oes  do  brasileiro,  expressando 
ao  mesmo  tempo  uma  visao  derrisoria  do  homem  do  povo  e uma  afei^ao 
difusa  por  sua  inocencia  e passividade  ou,  alternativamente,  por  sua  malkia 
ou  esperteza.  Ao  mesmo  tempo,  o insucesso  das  poh'ticas  de  “salva^ao  nacio- 
nal”  por  meio  do  higienismo  e a manuten^ao  de  bolsoes  de  miseria  no  meio 
rural  brasileiro,  mesmo  em  periodos  de  intensa  moderniza^ao,  mantiveram 
viva  no  imaginario  brasileiro  a imagem  do  caboclo  abatido  e indolence. 

Um  mestizo  superior 

As  secas  que  atingiram  o sertao  nordestino  nas  ultimas  decadas  do  seculo  XIX 
e nas  primeiras  do  seculo  XX  foram  um  objeto  privilegiado  da  literatura  de 
tematica  rural  do  perkdo,  sob  o influxo  da  onda  naturalista.  Decerto,  o tema 
darwinista  da  luta  pela  vida  em  um  ambience  de  recursos  escassos  adequava-se 
com  perfei^ao  a formula  realista-naturalista.  Muitas  das  narrativas  sobre  as  secas 
representam  a emigra^ao,  em  dire^ao  as  cidades  litoraneas  ou  as  regioes  mais 
umidas  do  sertao,  trajetoria  de  desumaniza^ao,  de  decadencia  moral  e fisica  na 
luta  pela  sobrevivencia.  Em  seu  romance  O paroara,  o escritor  cearense  Rodolfo 
Teofilo  narra  uma  destas  historias  de  desenraizamento,  acompanhando  a tra-  j 
jetoria  do  protagonista  Joao  das  Neves,  que  se  perdera  da  familia  durante  o 
exodo  na  seca  de  1 877,  e que,  ja  adulto,  retorna  a casa  da  familia,  no  Ceara.  Na  | 

visao  do  escritor,  o proprio  fato  de  haver  demonstrado  apego  a terra  de  origem,  i 

desejar  constituir  familia  e fixar-se  como  pequeno  agricultor  era  um  sinal  de 
que  ele  podia  ser  definido  como  um  “mestizo  superior,”  ou  seja,  aquele  cuja  | 
constitui^ao  fisica  e moral  tenderia  para  a ra^a  branca.  De  fato,  segundo  Teofilo,  j 
apesar  do  tipo  geral  indfgena,  seriam  nele  visfveis  tra^os  do  homem  europeu:  j 

um  tom  de  pele  mais  claro,  os  olhos  menos  oblfquos,  os  cabelos  mais  finos,  o | 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  285 

tamanho  das  maos  e os  dedos  desiguais.  E,  sobretudo,  “a  estas  manifesta^oes  da 
ra^a  branca  comprovando  a lei  do  atavismo,  se  juntavam  outras  psiquicas  de  nao 
menos  valor:  Joao  das  Neves  tinha  alma  afetiva,  era  capaz  de  amar”  (O  paro- 
ara  19).  Observa-se,  neste  ponto,  a sobreposi^ao  entre  a caracteriza^ao  racial  da 
personagem  e uma  tipificaqao  de  ordem  moral,  o que  faz  com  que  a condi^ao  de 
mestizo  indigena  do  protagonista  seja  parcialmente  atenuada,  e com  que  possa 
ser  estabelecida  a minima  empatia  entre  o autor  e o protagonista. 

As  firmes  disposi^oes  de  Joao  das  Neves  em  estabelecer-se  como  agricultor 
sedentario  foram,  entretanto,  colocadas  a prova  por  um  novo  pen'odo  de  seca. 

Em  que  pese  todo  o seu  trabalho  arduo  e disciplinado,  a instabilidade  clima- 
tica  fe-lo  perder  toda  sua  produ^ao,  amea^ando  a sobrevivencia  da  familia.  No 
entanto,  depois  de  ocupar-se  por  longos  capitulos  a narrar  os  ingentes  esfor^os 
do  protagonista  para  estabelecer-se  como  agricultor,  demonstrando  sua  incan- 
savel  luta  contra  as  condi^oes  irregulares  do  meio  fisico,  o escritor  nao  atribui  as 
causas  ambientais  o fracasso  da  personagem,  e sim  a sua  constitui^ao  racial  de 
mesti90.  Em  sua  visao,  nao  foi  a perda  da  safra,  apos  o sistematico  investimento 
de  todos  os  sens  recursos,  que  conduziu  Joao  das  Neves  a uma  trajetoria  invo- 
lutiva,  da  agricultura  para  a ca9a  e a pesca,  e sim  seus  instintos  atavicos,  que  o 
impulsionavam  a atividades  mais  coerentes  com  a indole  primitiva. 

Nesta  mesma  linha,  a tendencia  do  mestizo  indigena  a errancia  explicava, 
segundo  o escritor,  a decisao  do  protagonista  de  emigrar  para  a Amazonia, 
para  trabalhar  na  extra^ao  da  borracha.  De  fato,  sobretudo  a partir  da  grande 
seca  de  1877,  que  coincidiu  com  o ini'cio  da  grande  expansao  da  extra^ao 
seringueira,  aflui'ram  a Amazonia  levas  significativas  de  imigrantes  nordes- 
tinos,  provenientes,  em  sua  maioria,  dos  estados  do  Ceara,  Maranhao  e Rio 
Grande  do  Norte.  Joao  das  Neves  personifica  um  destes  imigrantes.  Na  visao 
do  escritor:  “O  nomadismo  da  raqa  vermelha,  transmitido  por  atavismo  a 
popula^ao  mesti^a,  a qual  constitui  talvez  quatro  quintos  dos  habitantes  do 
Ceara,  e o fator  principal  do  despovoamento  da  terra  cearense.  Este  instinto 
de  vagabundagem  inato  no  mesti9o  e alimentado  por  causas  secundarias,  entre 
as  quais  as  secas  e as  irregularidades  das  esta9oes  ocupam  o primeiro  lugar” 

(187).  Alem  disto,  como  seus  conterraneos,  tambem  agricultures  pobres,  Joao 
das  Neves  ter-se-ia  deixado  seduzir  pela  imagem  paradisiaca  de  uma  terra  de 
abundancia  e amenidades,  segundo  o autor  movidos  todos  pelo  desejo  do 
maravilhoso  e pela  mistifica9ao,  proprios  aos  mesti90s.^ 

Entretanto,  ao  contrario  da  maior  parte  de  seus  companheiros,  que  nao  hesi- 
taram  em  abandonar  suas  terras  para  seguir  rumo  ao  “eldorado,”  como  “mesti90 


LUCIANA  MURARI 


286 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


superior”  Joao  das  Neves  sentiu  “revoltarem-se  com  a sua  ingratidao  algumas 
gotas  de  sangue  de  outra  ra^a  que  nao  era  a vermelha”  (214).  Ou  seja,  sua  resis- 
rencia  a abandonar  a lam  ilia  e lida  como  manifesta^ao  da  parcela  branca  de  sua 
biologia,  a iinica  capaz  de  estabelecer  relates  afetivas.  Apesar  desta  rebeldia  do 
homem  branco  que  tinha  dentro  de  si,  escreve  Teofilo,  ele  seguiu  seus  instintos 
e partiu  para  a Amazonia,  onde  viveria  uma  experiencia  de  cruel  explora9ao  do 
trabiilho,  peniiria  material,  perigo  constante  e exposi^ao  a doen^as. 

Ao  retornar  ao  Ceara,  dois  anos  depois,  desiludido,  ainda  que  dispondo  de 
razoaveis  recursos  financeiros,  Joao  das  Neves  encontrou  a mulher  agonizante; 
os  quatro  lilhos  haviam  morrido  de  fome.  E a malaria,  que  o torturaria  para 
sempre,  era  acompanhada  pelo  remorso  de  haver  abandonado  a famflia,  puni- 
9ao  moral  que  o escritor  imaginou  como  forma  de,  mais  uma  vez,  condenar  o 
que  seria  o atavico  instinto  nomade  do  caboclo.  O contrassenso  em  que  recai 
o romance  e patente,  ao  lan^ar  sobre  a popula^ao  mesti^a  uma  generalizada 
censura,  ignorando  suas  reals  condi^oes  de  sobrevivencia.  Isto  se  torna  par- 
ticularmente  descabido  em  fun^ao  do  dramatico  pano  de  fundo  da  seca  e da 
explora^ao  desumana  do  trabalho  na  Amazonia.  Rodolfo  Teofilo  nao  abando- 
naria  esta  perspectiva:  em  um  livro  de  1922,  imaginou  um  reino  ideal  regido 
pela  racionalidade  ciennfica,  em  que  um  Estado  totalitario  estava  encarregado 
de  ordenar  a vida  privada,  promovendo  o aperfei^oamento  da  especie  humana 
(O  reino  83).  O apelo  a eugenia,  que  ja  havia  sido  defendida  em  O paroara, 
duas  decadas  antes,  demonstra  a longa  dura^ao  do  pensamento  racialista,  e 
seus  derivados,  no  Brasil,  ao  mesmo  tempo  em  que  ilustra  a centralidade  do 
argumento  racial,  que  se  impoe  a todas  as  demais  ordens  de  fatores,  mesmo 
que  as  custas  da  minima  coerencia  narrativa. 

A terra  prometida  as  ragas  superiores 

A borracha  consolidou-se,  nos  ultimos  decenios  do  seculo  XIX,  como  um 
dos  principals  insumos  da  industria  moderna,  sendo  a Amazonia  o unico  for- 
necedor  do  mercado  mondial  ate  a primeira  decada  do  seculo  XX,  o que 
representou  sua  insergao  no  capitalismo  internacional.  Este  foi  um  dos  mais 
conturbados  periodos  de  sua  historia,  sem  ter  havido,  entretanto,  qualquer 
altera^ao  substantiva  em  sua  estrutura  de  produ^ao  e comercializa^ao  (Weins- 
tein, A borracha  na  Amazonia  91).  A viagem  de  Joao  das  Neves,  protagonista 
da  obra  de  Rodolfo  Teofilo,  para  a Amazonia  remete  as  expressivas  levas  de 
trabalhadores  que  acorriam  a regiao  em  busca  de  trabalho,  em  fun9ao  das 
secas  que  atingiam  o Nordeste  brasileiro. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


287 


O desconhecimento  da  realidade  amazonica  nao  permitiu  aTeofilo,  entre- 
tanto,  uma  narra^ao  mais  apurada  da  experiencia  da  personagem  naquela 
regiao.  O ficcionista  amazonico  mais  notavel  do  periodo  foi  Alberto  Rangel, 
engenheiro  que  conhecia  profundamente  a Amazonia  e que  foi  capaz  de  con- 
verter em  enredos  literarios  os  sens  conflitos.  Na  coletanea  de  contos  Inferno 
verde,  publicada  em  1908,  estes  dramas  humanos  traduziam  uma  conturbada 
dinamica  racial,  na  qual  descendentes  dos  indi'genas  nativos,  imigrantes  do 
Nordeste  brasileiro  atingido  pelas  secas,  brancos,  negros  e mestizos  de  todos 
os  matizes  lutavam  entre  si  e contra  o meio  fisico  que,  por  sua  exuberancia  e 
instabilidade,  impunha  os  mais  dolorosos  obstaculos  a conquista  do  territorio. 

Na  visao  de  Rangel,  o caboclo  exerceria  neste  contexto  uma  fun^ao  de 
equilibrio,  por  sua  excepcional  capacidade  de  extrair  da  floresta  os  meios  de 
sobrevivencia,  e por  sua  obstina^ao  em  resistir  aos  desastres  naturals  carac- 
teristicos  da  regiao.  Sua  visao  do  tipo  local  e positiva,  especialmente  por  sua 
permanencia  no  meio  de  origem  e por  seu  “carater  reservado,  onde  paira  certa 
tristeza  de  exilado  na  propria  patria,”  na  qual  atuava  como  um  “moderador 
feliz  e inabalavel”  frente  aos  elementos  adventi'cios  que  buscavam  o “eldo- 
rado”  da  borracha  (Inferno  verdeA’y).  Os  contos  amazonicos  de  Alberto  Ran- 
gel sao  a expressao  ficcional  e pedagogica  de  uma  concep^ao  ampla  acerca 
do  momento  historico  em  curso  e do  futuro  da  regiao,  escrevendo  a luta  do 
homem  contra  o meio,  mas  negando  a ele  qualquer  protagonismo  na  con- 
du^ao  de  seu  destino.  Suas  personagens  sao  caracteristicamente  malfadadas 
em  sua  resistencia  contra  os  incontaveis  obstaculos  impostos  pela  natureza, 
sobretudo  a exuberancia  das  formas  de  vida  e a fertilidade  “excessiva”  da  terra. 
Estas  submetiam  o trabalhador  ao  esfor^o  incansavel  de  conter  o avan^o  da 
floresta,  que  rapidamente  retomava  os  espa^os  abertos  pelas  pequenas  colo- 
nias  de  trabalhadores  agn'colas. 

Neste  sentido,  sao  dadas  como  simbolicas  trajetorias  ficcionais  como  a 
do  caboclo  Jose  Cordulo:  trabalhador  diligente  e disciplinado,  em  um  raro 
momento  de  descanso,  vai  com  a familia  a uma  festa  nas  redondezas  da  colo- 
nia  em  que  vivia,  mas  quando  retorna  para  casa  nao  e mais  capaz  de  reconhe- 
cer  seu  proprio  terreno.  Remando  pelo  rio,  ao  chegar  ao  espa^o  onde  deveria 
estar  seu  porto,  nao  encontra  mais  nada  de  seu,  embora  reconhecesse  sem 
hesita^ao  o lugar  onde  havia  construido  sua  moradia,  estabelecido  sua  plan- 
ta^ao  e sua  cria^ao  de  animals.  Ele  havia  sido  vftima  da  “terra  caida,”  feno- 
meno  da  dissolu^ao  da  terra  nas  aguas  dos  rios,  que  naquele  momento  haviam 
engolfado  o resultado  de  cinco  anos  de  labor  constante.  Isto  demonstrava. 


LUCIANA  MURARI 


288 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


na  visao  do  escritor,  que  nao  havia,  na  Amazonia,  base  solida  para  a cria^ao 
de  uma  sociedade  baseada  no  trabalho  regular  e sedentario,  superior  sempre 
a for^a  da  natureza  aos  esfor^os  do  homem,  mesmo  os  mais  heroicos  como 
os  da  personagem  do  conto.  A conclusao  a que  conduz  a narrativa  volta-se, 
assim,  para  o elogio  da  ingloria  obstina^ao  do  mestizo  amazonico; 

No  dia  seguinte,  o sol  nado,  a vitima  era  urn  vencedor.  O caboclo  rodeado  da  mulher 
e dos  filhos,  plantava  no  chao,  ao  alto  da  ‘terra  cai'da’,  o esteio  de  sua  nova  habita^ao. 

Esse  pau,  colhido  por  ele  na  queimada  rodeante,  era  um  pendao  de  triunfo.  A terra 
podia  desaparecer,  o caboclo  ficava.  Acima  das  convulsoes  da  natureza,  acima  da 
fraqueza  da  terra,  estava  a alma  do  nativo  com  tranqiiilidade  e Fortaleza.  (91) 

Logo,  em  sua  luta  de  “Sisifo  invertido,”  o caboclo  da  fic^ao  de  Alberto 
Rangel  e um  elemento  diminuto  no  cosmos  amazonico,  onde  o equilibrio 
natural  necessariamente  seria  restabelecido,  mas  independentemente  do 
homem.  Ao  lado  do  mestizo  nativo,  destacam-se  em  sens  contos  os  nordesti- 
nos,  como  o Joao  das  Neves  do  livro  de  Rodolfo  Teofilo,  que  abandonavam 
a regiao  das  secas  para  buscar  a sobrevivencia  na  Amazonia.  Lembre-se  que, 
alem  da  luta  ingloria  contra  o meio,  os  homens  recrutados  para  o trabalho  nos 
seringais  tinham  que  lutar  contra  o sistema  social  opressivo  que  os  condenava 
a uma  condi^ao  de  semiescravidao,  num  contexto  de  completa  ausencia  de 
institui^oes  legais  que  representassem  um  efetivo  limite  a violencia  de  uma 
sociedade  convulsa,  instabilizada  pelos  heterogeneos  elementos  que  acorriam 
a ela  e pelo  que  o escritor  define  como  “o  resultado  dos  interesses  do  Capital 
que  institufra  a sua  propria  defesa”  (Rangel,  Inferno  verdel^l). 

E sobre  este  pano  de  fundo  que  se  ficcionalizam  destinos  tragicos  como 
o de  Sabino,  que  troca  sua  mulher,  a cabocla  Maibi,  pelo  saldo  da  dfvida 
que  o prendia  ao  patrao,  mas,  enlouquecido  de  ciume,  termina  por  sacrifica- 
-la,  amarrada  a uma  seringueira  e sangrada  como  se  sangrava  a arvore  para  a 
extra9ao  do  latex.  O martfrio  da  cabocla  expressa,  aqui,  nao  apenas  a incapaci- 
dade  do  mestizo  de  dominar  suas  paixoes,  como  a loucura  coletiva  da  barbara 
industria  da  borracha. 

Estes  tipos  etnicos,  o mestizo  nativo  da  Amazonia  e o mestizo  egresso 
do  Nordeste,  estariam,  entretanto,  como  os  demais  tipos  regionais  brasilei- 
ros,  condenados  ao  aniquilamento.  Isto  porque,  segundo  Rangel,  o brasileiro 
estaria  destinado  a constituir,  um  dia,  um  unico  tipo  racial,  fruto  da  fusao  de 
elementos  distintos  capaz  de  produzir,  a partir  da  condi^ao  predominante  de 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


289 


desordem  e instabilidade,  o equilibrio  etnologico  capaz  de  fundir,  “num  so 
corpo,”  estas  tendencias  discrepantes,  deixando  de  ser  “um  desfalecido  meio 
para  o transito  transfusivo  de  ra^as”  (Inferno  verde  48).  Afinal,  na  visao  do 
escritor,  a Amazonia  era  o destino  da  civiliza^ao,  “terra  prometida  as  ra<;as 
superiores,  tonificadoras,  vigorosas,  dotadas  de  firmeza,  inteligencia  e provi- 
das  de  dinheiro”  (281).  A realidade  presente  era,  portanto,  apenas  um  provi- 
sorio  momento  de  luta  e morte,  necessario  para  o saneamento  do  territorio,  a 
imposi^ao  da  agricultura  sobre  o solo  da  floresta,  e o estabelecimento  de  uma 
urbe  onde  naquele  momento  apenas  havia  o acampamento  dos  conquistado- 
res.  Necessaria  se  mostrava  tambem,  consequentemente,  aquela  popula^ao 
instavel  e mesti^a  que  ganhava  para  os  futuros  donos  do  territorio,  as  “ra^as 
superiores,”  o dommio  sobre  a terra.  O vigor  fisico,  os  dons  morais  da  obsti- 
na^ao  e do  amor  a terra  nao  sobreviveriam,  na  visao  do  escritor,  senao  residu- 
almente,  a medida  que  incorporados,  e assim  anulados,  por  tipos  tidos  como 
mais  fortes,  caracterizados  como  portadores  da  civiliza^ao. 

Restos  de  velhas  ragas 

A ideia  da  iminente  extin9ao  das  etnias  mesti^as  do  interior  brasileiro  foi  tra- 
duzida  para  o ambiente  social  do  Rio  Grande  do  Sul  pelo  romance  Ruinas 
vivas,  de  Alcides  Maya,  publicado  em  1910.  As  peculiaridades  historicas  do 
estado  em  parte  explicam  o tema  do  romance:  localizado  no  extremo  meri- 
dional do  pais,  o Rio  Grande  do  Sul  viu-se,  desde  sua  forma^ao,  envolvido  em 
disputas  de  fronteira,  inicialmente  em  fun^ao  do  estabelecimento  dos  limites 
entre  as  possessoes  territoriais  de  Portugal  e Espanha;  no  Brasil  independente, 
imiscuiu-se  nos  conflitos  da  regiao  platina,  tornando-se  a provincia  mais 
militarizada  do  pais.  Alem  disto,  sustentou  por  dez  anos,  de  1835  a 1845, 
o mais  longo  movimento  revolucionario  da  historia  brasileira,  em  defesa  de 
seus  interesses  politicos  e comerciais,  e uma  sangrenta  guerra  civil,  no  im'cio 
do  pen'odo  republicano,  entre  suas  duas  grandes  fac9oes  politicas,  de  1893  a 
1895.  Esta  longa  historia  bdica,  que  peculiarizou  o Rio  Grande  do  Sul  no 
conjunto  dos  estados  brasileiros,  foi  sustentada  pela  coopta9ao  das  camadas 
rurais  pobres,  que  atuavam  no  trabalho  das  estancias,  nos  pen'odos  de  paz,  e 
como  soldados  nos  pen'odos  de  guerra. 

O autor  de  Ruinas  vivas  concebeu  o romance  como  uma  ilustra9ao  de  que 
esta  tradi9ao  belicosa  estaria  destinada  a extinguir-se,  condi9ao  necessaria  a inte- 
gra9ao  das  for9as  sociais  do  estado  e a sua  moderniza9ao.  A mentalidade  mar- 
cial  desviaria  o Rio  Grande  do  Sul  de  uma  desejada  trajetoria  progressista,  ao 


LUCIANA  MURARI 


290 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


mesmo  tempo  em  que  atrasaria  sen  desenvolvimento  institucional.  Estas  ideias, 
expressao  de  Lima  intensa  militancia  polftico-partidaria,  foram  traduzidas,  no 
romance,  de  acordo  com  a linguagem  racialista,  defendendo-se  que  a etnia  gau- 
chesca  que  havia  sustentado  a historia  belica  do  estado  degradava-se,  marginali- 
zada  em  um  sistema  produtivo  ineficiente  marcado  pela  extrema  concentra^ao 
da  propriedade,  nao  restando  a ela  qualquer  espa^o  no  futuro  do  estado.  Este 
futuro  seria  construido  pelo  fortalecimento  das  institui^oes,  pela  cria^ao  de  uma 
infraestrutura  produtiva  atualizada  e pela  educa9ao  das  classes  populates. 

O protagonista  de  Ruinas  vivas  e o mesti90  Miguelito,  neto  de  uma  India  e 
de  um  velho  guerreador  dos  tempos  heroicos  da  historia  do  estado,  por  parte 
de  mae,  e,  por  parte  de  pai,  filho  natural  renegado  de  um  rico  herdeiro  das 
tradicionais  elites  brancas.  A descri^ao  do  carater  de  Miguelito  e construida 
a partir  dos  principios  da  ciencia  raciologica,  sendo  sua  natureza  de  mestizo 
definida  como  anarquica  por  essencia  e desprovida  de  controles  morais,  con- 
duzida  apenas  pela  imposi^ao  da  for^a.  Por  atavismo,  guardaria  vivos  os  ins- 
tintos  belicos  que  teriam  marcado  a forma^ao  do  tipo  gaucho,  guerreiro  por 
indole  e por  impulso,  e nao  pela  luta  por  qualquer  causa  abstrata.  Fiel  as 
no^oes  evolucionistas  que  associavam  o homem  primitivo  a pratica  da  ca^a, 
o escritor  descreve  seu  protagonista  como  um  ca^ador  espontaneo,  dotado  de 
“uma  intensa  animalidade  primeva”  {Rutnas  vivas  A?)).  A barbarie  do  homem 
miscigenado,  associada  ao  comportamento  animal,  e uma  imagem  recorrente 
na  constru(;ao  de  uma  personagem  caracterizada  pela  manifesta^ao  descontro- 
lada  dos  instintos,  embora  nao  fosse  negada  a Miguelito  uma  certa  capacidade 
de  compreensao  do  mundo  e de  interpreta^ao  de  sua  condi^ao  de  vida:  “Ao 
turvamento  do  espirito  correspondiam  desordens  fisionomicas  alarmantes: 
dominavam-lhe  a alma,  de  roldao,  impulsos  contraditorios  e sensa^oes  diver- 
gentes;  no  auge  da  como^ao  sobrepujava  a colera;  o facies  envelhecia;  apagava- 
-se-lhe  no  olhar  esfuriado  a cintila  adolescente;  e arremangava  ligeiramente  os 
labios,  como  para  morder...”  (57). 

Na  visao  do  autor,  o sangue  indigena  do  protagonista  o conduzia  tambem 
ao  nomadismo,  a dificuldade  de  aceitagao  do  trabalho  rotineiro,  a incons- 
tancia  do  espirito,  aventureiro  e imprevidente,  apesar  de  sua  habilidade  inata 
nas  praticas  campeiras,  inspiradas  pela  heran^a  do  nativo.  Ate  ai  o escritor 
estaria  apenas  reproduzindo  principios  etnologicos  vulgarizados  acerca  da  sel- 
vageria  latente  no  homem  miscigenado,  nao  fosse  o protagonista  do  romance 
tambem  um  descendente  da  elite  estancieira,  nao  apenas  uma  elite  branca, 
mas  uma  elite  dotada  pelo  autor  de  tra^os  aristocraticos,  caracterizada  pelo 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  291 

“instinto  domestico  de  predommio,  for(;a  de  seu  grupo  etnico”  (82).  Temos, 
portanto,  na  personagem,  um  mestizo  que  “tambem  pertencia  a ra9a  dos  for- 
tes, corria-lhe  tambem  nas  veias  o sangue  dos  autoritarios”  (159).  Se,  por  um 
lado,  esta  hibridez  selvagem-aristocrata  o colocava  “acima  da  instintiva  besta 
forte  de  prazer,  de  coragem  e de  destrui^ao,”  tornando-o  capaz  de  comporta- 
mentos  nobres,  por  outro  lado  sua  ambi^ao  congenita  de  superioridade,  seu 
desejo  de  for^a  e de  poder,  fazia  dele  um  paria  entre  os  demais  mestizos,  com 
os  quais  nao  se  identificava  plenamente: 

Existia  nele,  contudo,  um  elemento  qualquer  de  idea^ao,  latente,  insito,  pro- 
fundo,  que  faltava  aos  demais  da  sua  idade  e igualha:  era  diferente  dos  que  o cer- 
cavam  e,  embora  nao  tivessem  a no^ao  dessa  dessemelhan(;a,  destacava-se  de  todos 
no  pago  por  motivo  dela.  Arrebatado,  violento,  encruelecido  na  solidao  nativa 
pela  inclemencia  pastoril,  desenvolvera  em  si  mesmo,  naturalmente,  faculdades 
de  sonho,  revelando  por  vezes  delicadezas  de  sentimento,  mostrando-se  generoso, 
capaz  de  pequenos  sacrifkios,  amoravel  de  trato.  (24—25) 

Esta  peculiar  caracteriza9ao  etnologica  do  protagonista  conduz  o escritor 
a considera-lo  duplamente  inviavel,  em  fun^ao  das  “duas  intui^oes  que  o tur- 
bavam,  as  duas  personalidades  que  o dividiam”  (173):  como  mestizo  indigena 
tipicamente  gauchesco,  era  parte  de  uma  etnia  fadada  ao  desaparecimento, 
pela  emergencia  de  uma  sociedade  moderna  em  que  o guerreador  perderia  seu 
espa^o;  e,  como  mesti90  branco,  descendente  das  autoritarias  elites  sulinas, 
havia  sido  renegado  por  elas  como  filho  ilegitimo.  O romance  encena,  na  extin- 
9S0  do  tipo  guerreiro,  o fim  do  ciclo  belico  no  Rio  Grande  do  Sul,  negando  ao 
homem  pobre  do  campo  o espa90  tradicionalmente  dedicado  a ele.  No  entanto, 
por  tras  do  aparente  pessimismo  do  escritor,  que  so  ve  restos,  “de  velhas  cren- 
9as,  de  velhas  constru9oes,  de  velhas  ra9as,”  existe  tambem  a exigencia  de  um 
novo  modelo  de  incorpora9ao  das  classes  pobres,  cuja  condi9ao  de  miseria  e 
marginaliza9ao  e denunciada  (175).  O racialismo  adotado  pelo  escritor  turva, 
entretanto,  a expressao  desde  espirito  de  critica  poh'tica  que  faz  de  Ruinas  vivas, 
de  qualquer  modo,  um  precursor  do  “romance  social”  na  literatura  brasileira. 

Etnografia  e autobiografia 

A ado9ao  do  paradigma  cientifico  racialista,  que  vimos  aqui  como  estrutura 
teorica  de  um  discurso  de  inferioriza9ao  do  homem  do  campo,  ficcionalizado 
pela  literatura  regionalista  brasileira,  e apenas  um  capitulo  do  que  poden'amos 


LUCIANA  MURARI 


292 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


chamar,  de  acordo  com  as  ideias  de  Walter  Mignolo,  “a  constru^ao  ideolo- 
gica  do  racismo”  {La  idea  de  Ammca  Latina  40).  De  acordo  com  as  ideias 
do  autor,  o pensamento  racista  hierarquizou  a humanidade,  estabelecendo  a 
hegemonia  do  poder  europeii  sobre  os  povos  coloniais,  definida  nao  apenas 
pela  deten^ao  do  poderio  politico,  economico  e tecnologico,  mas  sobretudo 
pelo  controle  das  formas  de  pensar  o mundo,  e que  classificavam  a huma- 
nidade a partir  de  um  modelo  ideal.  Para  nossos  objetivos,  o mais  impor- 
tante  e observar  o que  o autor  chama  de  “estruturas  de  colonialismo  interno 
do  mundo  moderno  colonial”  (71),  qual  seja,  a transferencia  deste  modelo 
de  enuncia^ao  para  a constru^ao  do  discurso  das  elites  da  America,  o que 
consistiu,  basicamente,  em  implantar  e manter  a perspectiva  hierarquica  do 
pensamento  europeu,  capaz  de  conduzir  a “marginaliza^ao  e desumaniza^ao” 
dos  povos  indigenas,  negros  e orientais  (73).  Ainda  que  inferiorizadas  pelas 
matrizes  europeias,  apos  sua  autonomiza^ao  poh'tica,  as  elites  latino-america- 
nas  construfram  uma  nova  autoimagem,  tomando  posse  do  discurso  colonial 
europeu,  e assim  relegando  as  popula^oes  locals  a condi^ao  de  inferioridade 
racial  que  endossava  sua  condi^ao  de  submissao  politica.  O estabelecimento 
do  paradigma  cientifico  deu  impulso  a essas  concep^oes,  a medida  que  natu- 
ralizou  os  dados  da  cultura,  da  moral  e da  historia,  estabelecendo  o domi'nio 
da  biologia  como  a medida  das  potencialidades  humanas. 

No  caso  brasileiro,  ao  menos,  a flexibilidade  das  posi(;6es  de  poder  na 
sociedade  escravista  e pos-escravista  tornou  bastante  complexa  e vacilante 
esta  hierarquiza^ao  social,  mas,  grosso  modo,  reproduziu  o discurso  racista 
que  aqui  vimos  dramatizado  pela  literatura  de  fic^ao  rural,  proclamando  seus 
lugares-comuns:  a indolencia,  a indiferen^a  a vida  e a morte,  a incapaci- 
dade  de  estabelecer  vinculos  afetivos,  a tendencias  nomades,  a instabilidade 
emocional,  a dependencia  e a pertinencia  em  rela^ao  ao  mundo  da  natu- 
reza,  a instintividade  animalesca  e,  sobretudo,  a ausencia  de  possibilidades  de 
futuro,  por  sua  incapacidade  de  adapta<;ao  a modernidade,  o que  representa- 
ria,  afinal,  a aniquila<;ao  desses  tipos  humanos  primitivos,  “tradi^es  evanes- 
centes.”  Na  maior  parte  dos  casos,  contudo,  devemos,  por  outro  lado,  atentar 
para  a complexidade  desta  produq:ao  cultural  devotada  a representa^ao  das 
sociedades  rurais,  uma  vez  que,  frequentemente,  esta  expressao  etnologica  da 
diferen^a  sobrep6e-se  ao  proprio  esfor^o  de  incorpora^ao  das  peculiaridades 
locals  e regionais  a cultura  hegemonica  e,  acima  de  tudo,  de  forma^ao  de  um 
espa^o  de  representa^ao  da  experiencia  capaz  de  promover  a negocia^ao,  o 
dialogo  e o intercambio  entre  o popular  e o erudito,  em  dic^ao  autobiografica 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


293 


1- 

capaz  de  revelar  o transito  entre  o rural  e o urbano,  e promover  a negocia^ao 
. entre  a tradi^ao  e a modernidade.  Alem  de  expressao  do  discurso  racialista, 
esta  literatura  foi  muitas  vezes  tambem,  paradoxalmente,  o espelho  atraves  do 
qual  a cultura  brasileira  olhou  para  si  mesma,  consagrando  identidades  socials 
f incorporadas  ao  patrimonio  coletivo. 

[ 


Notes 

' O conceito  de  atavismo  diz  respeito  a manifesta^ao,  nos  tipos  humanos  degenerados, 
de  comportamentos  caractensticos  do  homem  primitivo,  como  urn  tipo  de  retorno  as  fases 
primitivas  da  evolu^ao  da  especie.  Uma  frase  de  Maya  ilustra  esta  concep^ao,  ao  descrever  os 
sentimentos  violentos  de  Miguelito  como  “algo  de  alheio,  de  anterior  a ele,  de  sobrevivente  nele” 
{Rutnas  vivas  173). 

^ Apesar  de  possuir  origem  racial,  o termo  “caboclo,”  mestizo  de  branco  e indigena,  des- 
colou-se  paulatinamente  de  seu  sentido  estrito,  adquirindo  significados  predominantemente 
culturais,  ao  designar  os  participantes  dos  modos  de  vida  caracteristicos  do  interior  brasileiro,  na 
regiao  centro-sul,  tornando-se  assim  similar  ao  termo  “caipira.” 

^ O termo  “paroara”  designa  o imigrante  contratado  pelos  produtores  para  retornar  ao  Nor- 
deste  e recrutar  novas  levas  de  trabalhadores  para  a Amazonia,  por  meio  de  um  discurso  do 
enriquecimento  facil  e do  elogio  a abundancia  amazonica. 


Obras  Citadas 

Cunha,  Euclides  da.  Os  sertoes.  Sao  Paulo:  Brasiliense,  [1907]  1982.  Impresso. 

Lobato,  Monteiro.  “Bibliografia.  Meu  sertao.  Catullo  da  paixao  cearense.”  Revista  do  Brasil  4 
(1918):  638-639.  Impresso. 

. “Problema  vital.”  Mr.  Slang  e o Brasil  e problema  vital.  Sao  Paulo:  Brasiliense,  [1918] 

1946.  221-340.  Impresso. 

. Urupes.  Sao  Paulo:  Brasiliense,  [1918]  1982.  Impresso. 

Maya,  Alcides.  Ruinas  vivas.  Porto  Alegre:  Movimento;  Editora  UFSM,  [1910]  2002.  Impresso. 

Mignolo,  Walter.  La  idea  de  Amhica  Latina.  La  herida  colonial y la  opcion  decolonial.  Trad.  Silvia 
Jawerbaum  e Julieta  Barba.  Barcelona:  Gedisa,  2007.  Impresso. 

Rangel,  Alberto.  Inferno  verde:  scenas  e scenarios  do  Amazonas.  Tours:  Arrault,  [1908]  1927. 
Impresso. 

Teofilo,  Rodolfo.  O paroara.  Ceara:  Louis  Cholowie^ki,  1899.  Impresso. 

. O Reino  de  Kiato.  Sao  Paulo:  Monteiro  Lobato,  1922.  Impresso. 

Weinstein,  Barbara.  A borracha  na  Amazonia-,  expansao  e decadencia  (1850-1920).  Trad.  Lolio 
Louren^o  de  Oliveira.  Sao  Paulo:  Hucitec,  1993.  Impresso. 


LUCIANA  MURARI 


294 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Luciana  Murari  is  a professor  in  the  graduate  program  in  Literature,  Culture,  and 
Regionalism  at  the  University  of  Caxias  do  Sul,  Rio  Grande  do  Sul,  Brazil.  She  holds 
a PhD  in  social  history  from  the  University  of  Sao  Paulo  (2002)  and  has  published  the 
monographs  Brasil,  ficgao  geogrdfica.  Ciencia  e nacionalidade  no  pais  d'Os  sertoes  (2007) 
and  Natureza  e cultura  no  Brasil  1870—1922  (2009),  as  well  as  many  articles,  including 
“O  espirito  da  terra:  a teoria  da  cultura  brasileira  de  Araripe  Jr.”  {Luso- Brazilian  Review 
2007).  She  is  currently  researching  the  political  bias  of  regionalist  literature  in  Brazil's  First 
Republic,  as  evidenced  in  the  works  of  writers  from  Rio  Grande  do  Sul.  Email:  lmurari@ 
hotmail.com 


Wasting  Away:  (De)Composing  Trash  in  the  Contemporary 
Brazilian  Documentary 


Steven  F.  Butterman 


Abstract.  This  essay  examines  the  metaphor  of  garbage  in  contemporary 
Brazilian  documentary  to  problematize  issues  of  race,  class,  and  gender, 
focusing  especially  on  Marcos  Prado’s  feature-length  Estamira  (2004). 
Utilizing  the  postmodern  decomposition  of  antropofagia  {coprofagid) , 
theorized  by  Brazilian  poet  and  cultural  critic  Glauco  Mattoso  as  well  as 
considerations  of  recent  feminist  thought,  this  essay  will  examine  how 
the  motif  of  lixo  in  recent  Brazilian  film  serves  to  critique  contemporary 
Brazilian  social  and  economic  policies  by  revealing  a society  that  dis- 
covers itself — and  ironically,  its  own  value  and  values — through  the 
garbage  it  produces. 


In  the  preface  to  his  recent  philosophical  essay  on  the  ontology  of  trash,  Greg 
Kennedy  examines  waste  from  the  perspective  of  life  in  a so-called  “throw- 
away society,”  arguing  the  following:  “If  we  look  at  trash  from  the  right  angle, 
we  start  to  see  something  more  than  a dirty  collection  of  processed  fibers, 
minerals,  petroleum,  and  food  scraps.  Images  of  ourselves  begin  to  emerge, 
uncanny  images  we  could  not  otherwise  behold  except  through  this  outside 
medium.  By  virtue  of  its  sheer  volume,  trash  now  offers  us  the  single  greatest 
means  for  observing  ourselves”  (Ontology  of  Trash  x). 

Recent  Brazilian  films  have  focused,  somewhat  obsessively,  on  lixo  (“trash”) 
in  its  relationship  to  Brazilian  society  and,  by  extension,  to  the  development 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23124  (2012):  295-304. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


296 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


of  social  and  political  ineqtialities.  While  not  a documentary  per  se,  Heitor 
Dhalia’s  O cheiro  do  ralo  (2006)  articulates  a complex  if  sardonic  philosophi- 
cal theory  of  garbage  in  relation  to  humankind.  One  of  the  most  compelling 
scenes  in  Sergio  Bianchi’s  Cronicamente  invidvel  (2000)  is  a two-minute  clip 
that  ilhistrates  man’s  inhumanity  to  man  by  depicting  an  elegant  restaurant 
staff  member  physically  driving  away  starving  beggars  who  are  attempting 
to  open  the  lids  of  the  garbage  cans  outside  the  establishment  in  search  of 
food.  In  a bitingly  sarcastic  revision  of  the  scene,  which  follows  immediately, 
the  staff  member  offers  the  same  scraps  of  wasted  food  to  a couple  of  wild 
dogs.  The  brilliant  eleven-minute  short  piece  Ilha  das  Flores  (1989)  uses  and 
abuses  the  traditional  technique  of  documentary  narration  to  provide  a scath- 
ing criticism  of  excessive  waste  and  subsequent  social  injustice  in  the  city  of 
Porto  Alegre,  where,  according  to  the  film,  approximately  one  million  citizens 
prodtice  some  500  tons  of  garbage  on  a daily  basis.  The  film  criticizes  the 
tendency  to  transport  garbage  far  away  from  the  urban  centers  in  which  it  is 
produced,  making  it  geographically  invisible  in  a futile  attempt  to  erase  its 
existence  (and  the  consequences  of  its  use  and  misuse)  from  our  collective 
consciousness,  where  it  only  accumulates  and  causes  serious  problems:  “[O] 
lixo  e levado  para  determinados  lugares  bem  longe  onde  possa  livremente 
sujar,  cheirar  mal,  e atrair  doen^as.”  The  final  scenes  of  the  film  show  the  ema- 
ciated and  sickly  residents  of  ironically  named  Ilha  das  Flores,  who  nurture 
themselves  by  consuming  the  garbage,  the  only  sustenance  at  their  disposal. 

Winner  of  thirty-three  film  awards  internationally,  mostly  for  best  docu- 
mentary in  2004,  2005,  and  2006,  the  film  Estamira  recreates  the  life  story 
of  its  namesake,  a 63-year-old  woman  who  has  lived  and  worked  for  over  20 
years  in  the  Aterro  Sanitario  de  Jardim  Gramacho,  which  receives  more  than 
8,000  tons  of  garbage  daily  from  the  inhabitants  of  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Through 
2005,  the  lixdo  of  Jardim  Gramacho,  located  in  the  municipality  of  Duque 
de  Caxias  and  surrounded  by  a small  favela  plagued  with  drug  trafficking,  the 
site  occupied  an  area  of  more  than  1,200,000  square  meters.  It  is  here  that 
about  85  percent  of  urban  trash  produced  in  Rio  was  deposited  every  day  over 
a course  of  more  than  25  years. 

The  director,  Marcos  Prado,  shadowed  and  observed  Estamira  for  a period 
of  two  years.  In  a fascinating  interview,  Prado  states  what  he  had  learned 
as  a result  of  his  two-year  journey,  relating  that:  “Aprendi  mais  tarde  que  o 
contingente  humano  do  Aterro  funcionava  como  um  termometro  social.  Ex- 
traficantes,  ex-presidiarios,  ex-domesticas,  ex-trabalhadores,  velhos  e jovens 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  297 

desempregados:  todos  juntos  se  misturavam  ali  em  busca  do  sustento  vindo 
do  lixo  e,  muitas  vezes,  em  busca  do  alimento  que  ali  encontravam.”  This 
observation  raises  a number  of  interesting  questions,  perhaps  the  most  dis- 
tressing and  disturbing  of  which  is  the  following:  Upon  the  impending  clo- 
sure of  Gramacho,  more  than  15,000  inhabitants  who  work  with  recycled 
goods  will  no  longer  be  able  to  support  themselves,  an  interesting  and  sober- 
ing twist  on  the  idea  of  dependency  upon  trash,  rather  than  dependency  on 
consumerism  via  material  goods  in  pre-consumption  status.  In  fact,  some 
sociologists  estimate  that,  in  Brazil,  there  are  two  million  people  who  base 
their  livelihood  primarily  on  the  collection  and  recycling  of  aluminum  cans. 

Framed  in  another  way,  the  inevitable  and  ironic  question  becomes:  What 
will  happen  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  Gramacho  when  they  are  deprived  of 
their  livelihood  of  nurturing  or  nourishing  themselves  on  its  waste?  This  con- 
cern brings  up  a larger  question  of  social  disparity  or  inequality:  These  invis- 
ible (or  worse,  rejected,  or  rather  e-jected)  Brazilian  citizens,  without  access  to 
basic  human  rights  and  services,  have  become  dependent  on  consuming,  both 
metaphorically  and  literally,  the  waste  that  the  overall  “legitimized”  society  at 
large  has  produced.  Therefore,  we  cannot  overlook  a very  complex  econom- 
ics of  the  circulation  and  the  consumption  of  trash  that  accompanies  equally 
important  concerns  about  the  role  of  creative  and  consistent  recycling  in  a 
heavily  polluted  and  contaminated  environment. 

One  might  write  an  essay  entirely  devoted  to  the  cinematographic  tech- 
niques in  the  film,  for  they  are  quite  interesting  and  complex.  In  the  begin- 
ning of  the  movie,  the  viewer  sees  grainy  textured  images  produced  by  a 
Super-8  camera.  These  Super-8  images  alternate  with  35  mm  images  in  black 
and  white  and  finally  with  35  mm  images  in  color.  In  essence,  the  viewer  is 
exposed  to  several  levels  or  layers  of  photography,  used  rather  strategically,  as 
we  shall  see,  throughout  the  film,  alternating  from  frames  of  a grainy  texture 
to  spotty,  rather  messy  shades  of  black  and  white,  mimicking  the  appearance 
of  the  antique  reels  of  film  characterizing  the  old  black-and-white  documen- 
tary genre,  to  a far  more  lucid  and  uncluttered  black  and  white,  to  full  color. 

While  it  is  not  within  the  scope  of  this  essay  to  examine  specific  cinemato- 
graphic techniques,  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  this  variance  of  perception, 
while  serving  as  a metaphor  for  the  need  to  perceive  differently,  also  chal- 
lenges traditional  notions  of  “objectivity”  surrounding  documentary  film  and 
is  perhaps  somewhat  deceptive  (and  most  certainly  biased)  in  its  attempt  to 
literally  “color”  the  life  of  Estamira  in  ways  that  may  or  may  not  be  realistic 


STEVEN  F.  BUTTERMAN 


298 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


or  even  honest.  When  she  talks  about  herself  and  her  life,  for  example,  the 
camera  filters  the  scene  from  grainy  to  a dull  black  and  white  and  finally  to  a 
vivid  and  clear  black  and  white. 

Estamira,  the  assumed  product  of  accumulated  trash,  is  elevated  in  sta- 
tus to  become  the  queen  or  even  the  diva  of  trash.  I argue  that  Estamira  is 
essentially  “trashed”  in  every  way  possible — she  is  used,  abused,  “jogada,” 
“jogada  fora,”  rejected  (twice  in  marriage),  and  is  transformed  into  trash  and 
ultimately  incarnates  the  queen  of  trash,  where  she  becomes  empowered  to 
assume  a leadership  role  in  her  community  of  catadores  (“trash  collectors”).  It 
seems,  therefore,  that  there  is  a semi-carnivalesque  quality  merging  with  the 
sublime  sense  of  abject(ion). 

Who  is  Estamira  and  for  whom  does  she  speak?  Estamira  represents,  on 
one  hand  and  quite  literally,  wasted  human  potential.  Journalist  Ana  Lucia 
Prado  argues  that  Estamira’s  actions  as  well  as  her  philosophical  viewpoints  are 
reflections  of  the  rejected/dejected/ejected  parts  of  ourselves  that  we  refuse  to 
confront  or  to  claim,  writing:  “Em  suas  andan^as,  [Estamira]  segue  vagando 
em  peda^os  que  deixamos  de  nos,  daquilo  que  desfazemos,  que  ensacamos 
e expelimos,  do  que  rejeitamos,  mergulha  nessa  nega^ao  e ve  o mundo  ao 
contrario.  Ao  contrario  do  que  nao  vemos  ou  nao  queremos  ver.  Ela  junta 
os  nossos  restos  e nos  devolve  em  metaforas.”  For  me,  this  evaluation  clearly 
mirrors  cultural  coprofagia  a la  Glauco  Mattoso.  The  idea  of  wasted  poten- 
tial is  revealed  by  Estamira  to  the  consumers  who  have  deposited  their  so- 
called  trash  to  be  transformed,  somewhat  anthropophagically,  at  the  hands  of 
a nurturing  woman  like  Estamira,  who  reinscribes  these  discarded  products 
with  concrete  value,  or  one  may  even  say,  concrete  valuei',  in  the  plural.  The 
reference  to  anthropophagy  is  quite  clear,  as  is  the  allusion  to  coprophagy.  In 
Glauco  Mattoso’s  “Manifesto  Goprofagico,”  the  reader  is  (mis)treated  to  a 
post-modern  rendition  of  Oswaldian  anthropophagy.  To  appropriate  and  sub- 
vert this  modernist  literary  strategy,  Mattoso  engages  in  a parodic  re-working 
of  Oswald’s  already  satirical  “Manifesto  Antropofago,”  which  was  presented 
on  a single  page  in  a journal,  the  Revista  de  Antropofagia,  itself  reflecting 
the  visual  presentation  of  a large-scale  mainstream  newspaper.  To  reiterate, 
Oswaldian  anthropophagy  essentially  involves  a devouring  of  First  World  cul- 
ture, after  which  a process  of  selective  digestion  occurs,  in  which  some  of  the 
colonizer’s  culture  becomes  integrated  into  Brazilian  culture.  This  cultural 
residue  subsequently  combines  with  other  elements  to  transform  itself  into 
something  new  and  distinct  and,  in  the  final  product,  uniquely  Brazilian.  The 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  299 

undesirable  traits  of  the  devoured  and  digested  culture,  for  their  lack  of  appli- 
cation or  relevance  to  Brazilian  society,  are  spit  out — discarded  rather  than 
appropriated,  and  Mattoso,  a self-acknowledged  “sub-product”  of  Oswald  de 
Andrade,  and  a few  generations  removed,  has  created  a manifesto  to  treat 
the  residue,  the  by-products,  so  to  speak,  of  Oswaldian  anthropophagy.  Tak- 
ing up  one  of  Brazilian  Modernism’s  most  subversive  aesthetic  projects  with 
irony  and  humor,  Mattoso’s  preoccupations  begin  where  Oswald’s  end:  If  the 
anthropophagist  has  eaten  somebody,  our  cannibal  will  undoubtedly  experi- 
ence a bowel  movement.  Mattoso’s  multiple  poetic  voices  receive  the  waste 
deposits  of  culture  with  a hearty  appetite,  eating  the  feces,  or  metaphorically 
ingesting  “undesirable”  or  perhaps  “un-in-corpo-rable”  cultural  elements  that 
have  been  consumed  and  rejected  (or  ejected).  In  a postmodern  anti-aesthetic 
re-working  of  Oswaldian  anthropophagy,  Mattoso  proudly  and  angrily — but 
with  tongue-in-cheek — identifies  himself  as  a revolted  member  of  the  colo- 
nized Third  World  (Butterman,  Perversions  on  Parade  1 19—20). 

Similarly,  throughout  the  progressive  development  of  Estamira’s  character 
and  the  presentation  of  her  eccentric  insights,  the  spectator  begins  to  see  (and 
gradually  cannot  but  see)  that  Estamira  represents  the  human  potential  and 
determination  to  survive  by  blending  and  mixing  rejected  or  ejected  objects 
(even  if  abject)  to  create  new  significations  and  propose  alternate  uses  that 
could  not  be  conceived  prior  to  these  products  having  undergone  decomposi- 
tion. I see  this  process  as  a somewhat  postmodern  metaphor  for  reconstitut- 
ing subjectivities  on  the  basis  of  fragments  of  fixed  identities  that  have  been 
recycled  into  new  (or  better,  renewed)  possibilities. 

Estamira  provokes  the  viewer  to  reflect  on  the  cliched  maxim:  “You  are 
what  you  eat,”  which,  in  the  case  of  this  film,  is  appropriately  replaced  with 
“You  are  what  you  waste.”  Both  the  main  character  and,  it  seems,  the  per- 
spective of  the  hlmmakers  of  Estamira  theorize  that  a society  becomes  most 
acquainted  with  itself  through  the  trash,  garbage,  waste  that  it  produces.  The 
detritus  is  inscribed  with  those  ingredients  that  are  devalued  in  society  or  even 
relegated  to  the  status  of  filth,  and  consequently  perceived  as  anti-hygienic. 

As  Stallybrass  and  White  contend  in  their  classic  piece.  The  Politics  and  Poet- 
ics of  Transgression:  “Disgust  always  bears  the  imprint  of  desire  [...].  [L]ow 
domains,  apparently  expelled  as  ‘Other,’  return  as  the  object  of  nostalgia, 
longing  and  fascination”  (191).  Similarly,  the  discarded  is  always  inscribed 
with  the  mark  of  the  cherished,  the  valued,  the  abundant,  since  the  item  in 
question  was  used  (and  sometimes  abused)  to  the  (usually  grossly  incomplete) 


STEVEN  F.  BUTTERMAN 


300 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


end.  The  residual  waste  and  its  destiny  are  what  become  personified  as  Esta- 
mira.  I agree  with  critics  like  Liane  Barros  who  view  Estamira  exclusively  as  an 
outsider,  as  among  the  world’s  esquecidos,  writing:  “Estamira  e uma  outsider, 
bz  parte  da  comunidade  dos  que  vivem  do  lado  de  fora,  os  esquecidos  do 
mundo,  vivendo  as  ciistas  dos  restos  e descuidos  de  uma  civiliza^ao,  que  deles 
nada  quer  saber.”  However,  I believe  that  Estamira  also  reflects  precisely  the 
opposite:  Metaphorically,  she  is  an  “insider”  in  the  most  intimate  of  terms 
because  she  has  ultimately  studied  and  transformed  the  products  of  the  intes- 
tines (or  perhaps  the  internal  workings)  of  the  Brazilian  body.  However,  in 
this  light,  I would  like  to  argue  that  Estamira  successfully  fragments  or  slices 
through  the  detritus  to  reformulate  a politics  and  a philosophy  of  “incorpora- 
tion” (which  I would  like  to  now  slice  and  dissect  into  its  three  constitutive 
parts):  in-corpo-ration.  What  is  not  rationed  is  wasted  and  becomes  /megrated 
im.o  the  Brazilian  physical  body  and,  by  extension,  its  psyche.  In  this  sense, 
Estamira  does  not  allow  us  to  forget  the  material  literally  at  our  disposal  nor 
the  remnants  we  choose  to  dispose  of,  as  she  reintroduces  them  with  new 
meanings  and  even  constitutes  her  own  existence,  her  own  survival,  on  the 
foundation  of  this  so-called  “waste.” 

Scatological  analysis  has  played  an  important  role  in  feminist  thought 
through  the  1980s  and  1990s,  figuring  prominently  in  the  works  of  writ- 
ers like  Julia  Kristeva,  Judith  Butler,  and  Iris  M.  Young.  In  The  Powers  of 
Horror:  An  Essay  on  Abjection,  Julia  Kristeva  conceptualizes  excrement — or 
that  which  has  been  discharged  from  the  body — as  indicative  of  the  body’s 
boundaries;  that  is,  the  body’s  definition  of  elements  internal  and  external  to 
itself  The  discharge  comes  to  represent,  then,  the  construction  of  an  “Other” 
(3—4,  71).  Yet  it  is  important  to  realize,  as  Judith  Butler  points  out  in  Gender 
Trouble.  Eeminism  and  the  Subversion  of  Identity,  that  the  contents  that  have 
been  ejected  from  the  body  are  undergoing  a process  of  transformation  that 
reconceives  “something  originally  part  of  identity  into  a defiling  otherness” 
(133).  As  such,  elements  at  one  time  in-corpo-rated  and  imbued  with  subjective 
identification  have  become  alienated  from  the  subject’s  perception  of  itself  Iris 
M.  Young,  in  Justice  and  the  Politics  of  Difference,  applies  Kristeva’s  theories  of 
abjection  to  notions  of  sexism,  homophobia,  and  racism,  viewing  the  body’s 
sex,  sexuality,  or  color  as  elements  to  be  ejected;  then,  once  differentiated  and 
therefore  autonomous  from  the  subject’s  bodily  boundary,  these  expelled  identi- 
ties can  be  conceived  with  disgust.  While  Young  portrays  the  repulsed  viewer 
as  one  who  owns  a hegemonic  identity,  I believe  this  process  may  also  be 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  301 

psychoanalytically  extended  to  encompass  a projection  of  the  self  in  its  denunci- 
ation and  therefore  compulsion  to  expel  its  own  “abject”  qualities.  Internalized 
homophobia,  or  self-censorship  on  a more  general  level,  may  be  examples  that 
are  symptomatic  of  the  seifs  perhaps  unconscious  role  in  its  own  detachment 
from  characteristics  that  define  it,  aspects  that  society  has  labeled  as  foreign  to 
the  cleanliness  of  the  body  and  therefore  relegated  to  the  status  of  filth, 

Judith  Butler  concisely  summarizes  the  notion  of  bodily  boundaries  that 
establish  acceptable  elements  of  identity  and  that  exclude,  for  the  ultimate 
purpose  of  domination,  facets  deemed  to  be  alien: 

What  constitutes  through  division  the  ‘inner’  and  ‘outer’  worlds  of  the  subject  is 
a border  and  boundary  tenuously  maintained  for  the  purposes  of  social  regula- 
tion and  control.  The  boundary  between  the  inner  and  outer  is  confounded  by 
those  excremental  passages  in  which  the  inner  effectively  becomes  outer,  and 
this  excreting  function  becomes,  as  it  were,  the  model  by  which  other  forms  of 
identity-differentiation  are  accomplished.  In  effect,  this  is  the  mode  by  which 
Others  become  shit.  For  inner  and  outer  worlds  to  remain  utterly  distinct,  the 
entire  surface  of  the  body  would  have  to  achieve  an  impossible  impermeability 
[...].  This  sealing  of  its  surfaces  would  constitute  the  seamless  boundary  of  the 
subject;  but  this  enclosure  would  invariably  be  exploded  by  precisely  that  excre- 
mental filth  that  it  fears.  (134) 

Ultimately,  in  this  perspective,  the  threat  of  contamination  by  difference 
or  “Otherness”  is  not  only  a powerful  one  but  a reality  that  transcends  any  of 
the  subject’s  vain  attempts  to  construct  a boundary  to  prevent  reincorporation 
into  its  subjectivity.  The  security  of  a cleansed  “inner”  world  that  has  tempo- 
rarily succeeded  in  expelling  abject  qualities  is  a false  one  that  will  not  be  able 
to  permanently  uphold  its  artificial  borders  and  will  have  to  ultimately  accept 
the  difference  that  terrifies  it,  or,  to  reiterate  Butler’s  metaphor,  risk  destruc- 
tion by  explosion.  Mattoso’s  insistence  on  eating  the  cagada  is  enhanced  by 
his  acknowledgment  that  the  supposedly  rejected  remnants  have  the  potential 
to  provide  a feast  of  difference,  a veritable  banquet  of  societally  rejected  truths 
with  which  the  author  is  attempting  to  re-nourish  Brazilian,  and  by  exten- 
sion, post-modern  consciousness. 

The  rejected  elements,  also  known  as  waste,  are  ironically  the  best  access 
to  understanding  the  core  values  of  any  society,  and  Estamira’s  role  in  this 
process  of  self-revelation  is  thus  critical.  It  is  not  surprising  that  she  would  be 


STEVEN  F.  BUTTERMAN 


302 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


condemned  to  “Otherness”  (in  this  case,  perceived  as  insane)  because  of  the 
threat  that  her  dominion  over  trash  represents  to  the  collective  unconscious, 
thus  prompting  her  further  marginalization  and  removal  from  perceived 
“normalcy.”  As  Kennedy  contends: 

Waste  embarrasses  and  shames  us  because  it  confronts  us  with  a reflection  of  our 
own  shortcomings  [...].  On  the  strength  of  this,  we  could  make  two  plausible 
hypotheses.  First,  any  society  [...]  that  generates  gross  amounts  of  waste  must 
have  correspondingly  gross  inadequacies.  Where  the  average  person  [in  the  US] 
creates  nearly  flve  pounds  of  garbage  per  day,  the  human  failure  must  also  be 
proportionately  massive.  Second,  a society  preoccupied  with  concealing  its  wastes 
must  have,  so  to  speak,  something  important  to  hide  from  itself  (4) 

The  notion  of  living  among  waste  and  constructing  novelty  out  of  the  dis- 
carded reflects  the  fact  that  Estamira  is  quite  aware  of  the  fact  that  most  of  her 
surroundings  have  been  relegated  to  the  status  of  “waste”  simply  from  lack  of 
use,  discontinued  use,  partial  use,  or  even  misuse,  prompting  her  to  remark: 
“Isto  aqui  e um  deposito  dos  restos.  As  vezes  vem  tambem  descuido  [...].” 
Estamira’s  self-proclaimed  mission  is  to  reveal  society  to  itself,  and  she  conse- 
quently suffers  the  high  price  of  marginalization  and  the  medical  diagnosis  of 
schizophrenia.  Nevertheless,  it  is  important  to  remind  ourselves  that  Estamira 
does  not  function  exclusively  as  victim  or  victimized  but  rather  has  staked  out 
and  proudly  adopted  her  role,  adapting  amazingly  well  to  life  in  the  dump 
and  embracing  its  value.  At  one  crucial  and  especially  lucid  moment  in  her 
interviews,  she  states:  “Eu,  Estamira,  sou  a visao  de  cada  um  [...].  Ninguem 
pode  viver  sem  Estamira  [...].” 

It  is  interesting  and  relevant  to  examine  the  motif  of  relativity  of  (in)san- 
ity:  Estamiras  world  is  ironically  more  stable  and  controlled  inside  the  trash 
dump  than  it  would  be  in  an  institution  or  in  mainstream  society  at  large, 
where  she  is  deemed  to  be  invisible.  I think  the  film  also  purports  that  both 
of  these  “microcosms” — inside  or  outside  of  the  trash  bin — are,  quite  frankly, 
crazy-making.  The  notion  that  Estamira  is  mentally  disturbed,  as  the  film 
relates  at  several  points,  and  even  suffers  from  schizophrenia,  as  we  discover 
at  another  point,  is  indicative  of  another  level  of  marginalization.  One  of  the 
many  criteria  for  social  exclusion  is  the  pronouncement  and  ultimately  the 
diagnosis  of  loucura.  In  viewing  and  reviewing  the  film,  I have  found  that  the 
most  compelling  reason  to  explain  why  Estamira  may  be  deemed  psychotic 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  303 

is  the  fact  that  she  confuses  luxo  with  lixo,  romanticizing  and  re-envisioning 
the  material  value  and  wealth  of  the  discarded  goods  that  she  subsequently 
revives  with  new  life. 

The  film  struggles  to  persuade  the  spectator  to  believe  that  Estamira’s  rejec- 
tion of  her  family  and  her  choosing  to  live  in  an  enormous  garbage  dump  over 
the  possibility  (despite  repeated  invitations  and  opportunities)  of  reuniting 
with  family  in  a more  “civilized  home”  setting  is  symptomatic  of  her  psycho- 
sis. However,  without  meaning  to  romanticize  the  harshness  and  the  cruelty 
of  the  life  that  Estamira  leads,  she  states  repeatedly,  during  many  moments 
of  the  film,  that  she  takes  pride  in  making  items  relegated  to  garbage  usable 
again.  In  the  process  of  recomposition,  Estamira  reinvests  herself  with  a criti- 
cal utilitarian  role  within  the  community  (read:  family)  she  has  chosen  to 
adopt.  As  she  provides  an  overall  assessment  of  her  life  in  Gramacho,  Estamira 
relates:  “Adoro  isso  aqui.  A coisa  que  eu  mais  adoro  e trabalhar.”  This  com- 
ment powerfully  subverts  the  notion  that  the  marginal  or  the  marginalizado! 
marginalizada  is  either  not  able  to  find  or  not  willing  to  engage  in  fixed  work, 
trashing,  if  you  will,  the  prejudiced  notion  that  the  impoverished  or  the  “for- 
mally” unemployed  cannot  or  will  not  work  for  a living. 

For  Estamira  and  in  Estamira,  the  economics  of  the  circulation  of  trash 
becomes,  then,  a metaphor  for  living  a richer,  fuller  life  and  a condemnation 
of  wasted  potentialities.  One  of  the  most  salient  observations  Estamira  makes 
is  the  following:  “O  homem  esta  aqui  para  conservar,  proteger,  limpar,  e usar 
mais  [...]  o quanto  pode  [...].  Economizar  as  coisas  e maravilhoso.  Porque 
quern  economiza,  tern.  Entao  as  pessoas  tern  que  prestar  atenq:ao  no  que  eles 
usam,  no  que  eles  tern  [...].” 

It  is  from  this  garbage  that  Estamira  constructs  her  own  home,  staking  out 
her  own  vocation  in  the  world,  with  steadfast  pride  and  total  self-determina- 
tion. As  such,  Estamira’s  plight  can  also  be  seen  as  queer  in  the  sense  that  her 
struggle  represents  freedom  from  societal  standards,  norms  and  expectations, 
as  the  diva  of  the  dump  works  laboriously  and  conscientiously  to  construct  a 
new  sense  of  place  and  a leadership  position  in  an  adopted  community  with 
no  ties  to  her  biological  family,  from  whose  members  she  has  experienced 
repeated  rejection  and  harsh  judgment. 


STEVEN  F.  BUTTERMAN 


304 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Works  Cited 

Butler,  Judith.  Gender  Trouble:  Feminism  and  the  Subversion  of  Identity.  New  York:  Routledge, 
1990.  Print. 

Butterman,  Steven  F.  Perversions  on  Parade:  Brazilian  Literature  of  Transgression  and  Postmodern 
Anti-Aesthetics  in  Glauco  Mattoso.  San  Diego:  San  Diego  State  UP,  2005.  Print. 

Cronicamente  invidvel.  Dir.  Sergio  Bianchi.  Agravo  Produ^oes  Cinematograficas/RioFilme, 
2001.  Film. 

Btamira.  Dir.  Marcos  Prado.  RioFilme,  2000.  Film. 

Ilha  das  Flores.  Dir.  Jorge  Furtado.  Casa  de  Cinema  de  Porto  Alegre,  1989.  Film. 

Kennedy,  Greg.  An  Ontology  of  Trash:  The  Disposable  and  Its  Problematic  Nature.  Albany:  SUNY 
Press,  2007.  Print. 

Kristeva,  Julia.  The  Powers  of  Horror:  An  Essay  on  Abjection.  Trans.  Leon  S.  Roudiez.  New  York: 
Columbia  UP,  1982.  Print. 

O cheiro  do  ralo.  Dir.  Heitor  Dhalia.  Gera^ao  Conteudo,  Primo  Filmes,  and  RT  Features,  2006. 
Film. 

Stallybrass,  Peter,  and  Allon  White.  The  Politics  and  Poetics  of  Transgression.  Ithaca,  NY:  Gornell 
UP,  1986.  Print. 

Young,  Iris  Justice  and  the  Politics  of  Difference.  Princeton,  NJ:  Princeton  UP,  1990.  Print. 


Steven  F.  Butterman  is  associate  chair,  associate  professor  of  Portuguese,  and  director  of 
the  Portuguese  Program  in  the  Department  of  Modern  Languages  and  Literatures  at  the 
University  of  Miami.  His  publications  include  Perversions  on  Parade:  Brazilian  Literature  of 
Transgression  and  Postmodern  Anti- Aesthetics  in  Glauco  Mattoso  (San  Diego  State  University 
Press,  2005);  “Cinema  marginal:  subversao  e reconstru^ao  da  identidade  nacional  brasileira 
nos  filmes  Matou  a famllia  e foi  ao  cinema  e Orgia,  ou  o homem  que  deu  criaf  an  invited 
essay  in  the  edited  collection  Miradas  al  margen:  cine y subalternidad  en  America  Latina y el 
Caribe  (2009);  and  ‘“I  Can  See  Queerly  Now — the  Reign  is  Gone’:  The  Path  to  Liberation 
and  the  Development  of  Homoerotic  Themes  in  Pureza  Canelo,  Andrea  Luca,  and  Ana 
Rossetti”  {Rocky  Mountain  Review  of  Language  and  Literature,  Fall  2001).  Dr.  Butterman  is 
currently  working  on  an  article  entitled  “Referring  and  Refereeing  Alternative  Sexualities: 
The  Sociopolitical  Climate  of  the  LGBT  Movement  in  Brazil  Today,”  and  on  a single- 
author monograph  entitled  Experimental  Film  During  Brazilian  Dictatorship:  Internal 
Dialogues  Between  Cinema  Novo  and  Cinema  Marginal.  Email:  butterman@miami.edu 


Pressupostos  esteticos  do  academicismo  literario: 
A literatura  brasileira  no  infcio  do  seculo  XX 


Mauricio  Silva 


Abstract.  This  paper  analyzes  the  cultural  context  of  pre-modernism  in 
Brazil,  highlighting  the  process  of  canonization  of  authors  by  literary 
historiography,  among  other  aesthetic  and  literary  aspects  of  Brazilian 
literature.  Furthermore,  this  paper  analyzes  the  possible  relationships 
between  pre-modernist  authors  and  the  Academia  Brasileira  de  Letras  in 
the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries. 


Sob  o influxo  das  mais  diversas  reformas  e transforma9oes,  a Capital  Fede- 
ral vivia,  nos  anos  que  norteavam  a passagem  do  seculo  XIX  para  o XX,  um 
periodo  de  siibito  esplendor:  nao  apenas  a cidade,  mas  tambem  a sociedade  se 
renovava  e se  modernizava;  a tecnologia— impulsionada  pela  recente  Segunda 
Revolu9ao  Industrial — ganhava  igualmente  foros  de  novidade  perene,  com 
seus  automoveis,  avioes,  maquinas  diversas  e inven^oes;  levava-se  adiante  um 
processo  civilizatdrio  excludente,  caracterizado  por  uma  singular  febre  de  sanea- 
mento  publico;  os  simbolos  mais  acabados  do  novo  estilo  de  vida  que  se  inau- 
gurava  com  a virada  do  seculo  espalhavam-se  por  toda  parte,  indo  desde  as 
famosas  confeitarias  e saloes,  as  ruas  e avenidas  mais  frequentadas,  sem  deixar 
de  contar  com  os  teatros,  cinemas  e casinos  que  surgiam  por  toda  a cidade. 

Gloria  e esplendor  superficiais,  e verdade,  ja  que  procuravam  esconder — 
sob  o manto  diafano  ddijoie  de  vivre — os  sintomas  tipicos  de  uma  aguda  crise 
social  e economica,  que  revelariam  a face  mais  cruel  da  incipiente  republica. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  305-314. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


306 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Assim,  nao  obstante  set  o elemento  superficial  que  contava  para  uma  sociedade 
niLindana  cada  vez  mais  atuante  no  comando  das  decisoes  polfticas  e adminis- 
trativas  do  estado,  entrevia-se,  no  bojo  desse  entusiasmado  desenvolvimento, 
uma  serie  infindavel  de  processos  marcadamente  decadentes,  refletindo  um 
estilo  de  vida  caracterizado  por  crises  de  toda  especie,  mas  sobretudo  pelo 
esgar^amento  do  tecido  social,  ocasionado  por  um  desenvolvimento  urbano 
marginalizador,  que  se  manifestava  pelo  aumento  do  consumo  de  drogas, 
expansao  da  carestia,  problemas  de  moradia,  alargamento  da  prostitui^ao, 
crescimento  da  violencia  urbana,  dilata^ao  do  desemprego  etc.,  aspectos  mar- 
cantes  da  vida  social  brasileira  e que  foram — na  sua  maioria — retratados  pela 
literatura  do  perfodo,  academica  ou  nao. 

Dessas  contradi^oes  socials,  nasce  uma  necessidade  de  evasao,  de  fuga  da 
opressora  realidade  circundante,  enfim,  de  sublima^ao  dos  percal^os  socials 
por  meio  de  uma  literatura  que  se  consolidasse  mais  do  que  como  reflexo  de 
um  pretenso  lado  “humano”  da  sociedade,  como  instrumento  de  cria^ao  de 
uma  realidade  artificialmente  forjada.  Por  isso,  literariamente  falando,  esse 
perfodo  foi  marcado  em  profundidade  por  uma  concep9ao  mais  ou  menos 
padronizada  da  expressao  artfstica,  visao  esta  perfeitamente  sintetizada  na 
considera^ao  da  literatura  como  o sorriso  da  sociedade. 

As  instancias  legitimadoras  do  perfodo — como,  por  exemplo,  o jorna- 
lismo — , a par  da  ideologia  veiculada  por  periodicos  e dos  discursos  academi- 
cos,  deram  sustenta^ao  social,  por  assim  dizer,  a um  singular  academicismo 
literario,  composto  pela  produ9ao  ficcional  de  diversos  autores,  direta  ou  indi- 
retamente  vinculados  a Academia  Brasileira  de  Letras.  Essa  produ^ao,  mol- 
dada  por  uma  pragmatica  literaria  rigidamente  regulada,  era  composta  por 
obras  e autores  que  valiam,  sobretudo,  pelo  modo  como  revelavam  tramas, 
enredos  e formas  literarias,  isto  e,  pelos  recursos  formais  e estilfsticos  empre- 
gados  em  suas  produ^oes.  Em  outros  termos,  o que  acabava  contando  mesmo 
era  uma  especie  de  modus  faciendi  institufdo  pela  Academia  como  referenda  a 
uma  praxis  estdica  a ser  seguida. 

A estetica  academicista,  para  efeito  de  compara^ao,  opunha-se  diametral- 
mente  aquela  literatura  util  de  que  fala  Curvelo  de  Mendon^a,  cujo  principal 
proposito  era  a veicula^ao  do  ideario  anarco-comunista  entre  a classe  media 
urbana  (Rio,  O momento  literdrio\  Luizetto;  Leal).  Fabio  Lucas  entende  essa 
literatura  como  uma  espdie  de  expressao  estetica  contida  numa  denomina^ao 
mais  generica  de  ficqao  social  a qual  se  divide  em  romance  social,  em  que  o cole- 
tivo  ocupa  o primeiro  lugar  na  trama,  romance  politico,  em  que  predomina  o 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


307 


individuo,  e romance  proletario,  que  reflete  o ponto  de  vista  do  trabalhador  nas 
rela^oes  sociais  (Lucas;  Hardman,  “Engenheiros,  anarquistas,”  “Antigos  moder- 
nistas”).  Curiosamente,  embora  possamos  ver  a literatura  academicista  como 
oposta  a essa  literatura  militante  e utilitaria,  de  cunho  marcadamente  social,  elas 
se  igualavam  no  seu  pragmatismo:  enquanto  aquela  adotava  uma  pragmatica  da 
autopreserva^ao  burguesa,  esta  se  empenhava  por  uma  pragmatica  da  denuncia 
da  exclusao  social,  ambas  devidamente  simbolizadas  por  um  modo  particulari- 
zado  de  fazer  literatura.  Assim,  para  a literatura  academicista,  no^oes  como  as  de 
diletantismo  literario,  preciosismo  vocabular,  cosmopolitismo,  artificialismo  e 
outras  constituiam  um  verdadeiro  programa  estetico,  aprioristicamente  definido 
e tra9ado  sob  os  auspi'cios  da  Academia  e seus  membros. 

Desse  modo,  o pragmatismo  parecia  ser  o linico  ponto  de  contato  com  a 
literatura  social — em  tudo  minoritaria — , produzida  pelos  escritores  ligados 
ao  ideario  anarco-comunista  no  Brasil  daquela  epoca.  De  resto,  sua  natureza 
estava  muito  mais  proxima  de  um  ideario  burgues,  sustentado  pelo  poder 
politico  estabelecido  e por  uma  pratica  cultural  institucionalizada.  Trata-se, 
como  ja  sugerimos  antes,  de  uma  literatura  oficializada,  produto  de  uma  bur- 
guesia  em  ascensao,  desdobramento  estetico  do  patriarcado  que  se  burocrati- 
zava.  Para  Brito  Broca,  em  celebre  estudo,  com  a Academia  tornava-se  quase 
que  necessario  o aburguesamento  do  escritor  {A  vida  literdria  no  Brasil)  e, 
para  Francisco  Foot  Hardman,  durante  a Primeira  Republica,  “a  literatura 
foi  um  dos  principal  veiculos,  senao  o principal,  da  ideologia  dominante” 
(“Palavra  de  ouro”  80;  Prado  “Nacionalismo  literario”). 

Essa  equa^ao  que  aliava,  num  mesmo  campo  intelectual,  prestigio  social  e pro- 
du^ao  literaria,  cultura  oficial  e estiliza^ao  artistica  revelou-se  de  grande  sucesso 
para  a maioria  dos  academicistas,  al^ando-os  a categoria  de  principals  represen- 
tantes  da  literatura  brasileira  durante  a passagem  do  seculo.  Tal  equa^ao  pode 
ser  resumida  nessas  palavras  bastante  sugestivas  de  um  estudioso  do  periodo: 

os  intelectuais  gozavam  de  um  prestigio  invulgar,  envoltos  na  aura  da  gloria. 
Paralelamente,  seu  poder  de  fogo  critico  e criativo  se  acha  encolhido,  estando  as 
vezes  anulado,  quer  pela  co-opta^ao,  quer  por  manipular  a literatura  com  o propo- 
sito  de  ascender  socialmente  e tirar  proveito  das  benesses  proporcionadas  pela  con- 
di^ao  de  escritor,  fazendo  da  cria^ao  literaria  uma  atividade  frivola  e inocua,  simples 
lazer  [...].  [A]  literatura  detinha  a palma  na  area  cultural.  Mas  nao  seria  preciso 
espeta-la  para  perceber  que  estava  murcha,  insossa,  ‘sorriso  da  sociedade’.  Vigora 
um  neo-parnasianismo  ja  baga^o,  estilo  por  excelencia  das  camadas  dirigentes,  com 


MAURfCIO  SILVA 


308 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


seu  versejar  virtuosistico,  sua  linguagem  empolada,  pendurada  com  os  berloques  das 

tiradas  de  eteito,  sens  ditos  galantes,  suas  chaves  de  ouro.  (Reis  106-108) 

Evidcntemente,  o fato  de  vigorar  entre  os  academicos  uma  estetica  mar- 
cada  por  efeitos,  na  sua  maioria,  ornamentais  nao  significa  que  esses  mesmos 
academicos  deixassem  de  perceber  a a^ao  deleteria  de  tais  efeitos  sobre  a pro- 
dii9ao  literaria.  Representantes  de  destaque  de  uma  literatura  entre  diletante  e 
laudatoria,  entre  afetada  e artificial,  com  pouca  a^ao  romanesca  e demasiada- 
mente  palavrosa,  com  enredos  simplorios,  padronizados  e com  virtuosismos 
linguisticos,  alguns  academicos,  numa  atitude  de  quase  autofagia,  deblateravam 
contra  um  pretenso  depauperamento  da  literatura  nacional:  enquanto  Hum- 
berto de  Campos  chamava  a aten9ao  para  o fato  de  a expressao  literaria  carecer 
de  autores  verdadeiramente  originais,  caracterizando-se  antes  por  “sugadores” 
de  ideias  alheias  {Mealheiro  deAgripa  53);  Alvaro  Guerra,  membro  da  Academia 
Paulista  de  Letras,  apontava,  em  1916,  para  o mesmo  problema,  diagnosticando 
a carencia  cronica  de  originalidade  na  produ^ao  estetica — “gravissimo  e talvez 
insanavel  morbo  da  literatura  no  Brasil”  (127).  Mais  radical  em  suas  posi9oes 
a respeito  dessa  questao,  outro  ilustre  membro  da  Academia,  Medeiros  e Albu- 
querque, em  entrevista  a Joao  do  Rio,  afirma  mesmo  ser  impossivel  pensar  em 
literatura  nacional  pela  propria  ausencia  de  uma  nacionalidade  brasileira  (cit. 
em  Rio,  O momento  literdrio  68).  Enfim,  Joao  do  Rio,  em  texto  publicado  pos- 
tumamente,  apontava  para  a peniiria  literaria  numa  na^ao  obsessivamente  “a 
espera  de  ideias  estrangeiras”  (O  momento  literdrio  70). 

E certo  que  a critica  veiculada  pelos  academicos  de  primeira  linha  soava 
algo  leviana,  fazendo  parte  de  um  discurso  vazio  e sem  impacto  e impondo-se 
mais  como  exercicio  de  retorica;  em  outras  palavras,  representava  uma  teoria 
que  nao  tinha  correspondencia  efetiva  na  pratica  de  sua  produ^ao  literaria, 
revelando-se  um  conglomerado  de  frases  de  efeito  e caindo  no  mais  absoluto 
esquecimento.  Basta  recordarmos  algumas  opinioes  veiculadas  pelos  literatos 
oficializados  em  sens  discursos  academicos,  como  aquelas  que  defendem  a 
preserva^ao  do  vinculo  da  literatura  brasileira  com  a tradi^ao  literaria  euro- 
peia,  o que  vai  de  encontro  a suposta  falta  de  originalidade  dos  literatos. 

Mas  se  os  proprios  academicos  emergiam  como  criticos  de  uma  situa^ao 
pela  qual,  em  grande  parte,  eles  mesmos  eram  os  responsaveis,  com  muito 
mais  razao  essa  situa^ao  era  criticada  por  aqueles  escritores  e intelectuais  do 
periodo  que  assumiram  um  posicionamento  ideologico  e estetico  de  franca 
oposi9ao  ao  academicismo  vigente. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  309 

E o caso  de  Lima  Barreto,  o mais  fervoroso  dos  antiacademicos,  ao  criticar 
o corporativismo  que  campeava  no  meio  literario  nacional;  ou  de  Gilberto 
Amado,  que,  num  gesto  de  insatisfa^ao  com  a situa^ao  da  literatura  do  peri- 
odo,  afirma  peremptoriamente: 

o que  nos  calharia  no  momento  actual,  do  ponto  de  vista  literario,  seria,  por  assim 
dizer,  uma  agita^ao  romantica  no  sentido  que  essa  expressao  pudesse  comportar 
de  exalta^ao  febril  da  imagina^ao  creadora,  de  desprezo  ostensivo  das  formas  con- 
sagradas,  de  arrancada  gloriosa  para  o novo,  o nunca  dito,  o interessante  [...]•  E 
e evidente  que  nao  pode  ser  com  academicismos,  linguismos  e bobagismos,  que 
havemos  de  constituil-a.  (52) 

Ha,  e certo,  muito  de  rancor  inconsequente  e despeito  em  algumas  das 
criticas  veiculadas  por  contundentes  e obstinados  antiacademicos  do  periodo, 
mas  o que  importa  mesmo  e que  se  trata  de  evidencias  constatadas  no  calor  da 
bora  de  acontecimentos  responsaveis,  como  aludimos  ha  pouco,  pelo  emprego 
de  recursos  literarios  (diletantismo,  preciosismo,  cosmopolitismo,  artificia- 
lismo,  etc.)  e atitudes  socioculturais  (afetaqao,  frivolidade,  virtuosismo,  etc.), 
advindas  da  moldura  institucional  do  discurso  literario  academicista. 

Mas  talvez  nenhuma  outra  marca  estetica  caracterize  tanto  o academicismo 
literario  como  seu  apego  incondicional  ao  formalismo,  o qual  preenche,  como 
poucos  conceitos,  a condiqao — ja  aludida  por  Humberto  de  Campos  no  pre- 
facio  a antologia  de  textos  e discursos  proferidos  na  Academia  Brasileira  de 
Letras — de  autentico  “modelo  academico”  (Antologia  da  Academia  Brasileira  12) 
sob  o qual  impera  uma  especie  de  mistica  parnasiana  da  forma.  Em  termos 
gerais,  ela  se  define  pela  completa  submissao  a plasticidade  de  imagens  literarias, 
construidas  a partir  do  apego  incondicional  ao  perfeccionismo  linguistico  ou  do 
exagero  preciosista  dos  torneios  frasicos.  Enfim,  por  uma  deliberada  e absoluta 
apologia  da  forma,  quase  sempre  em  detrimento  do  conteiido. 

Os  autores  academicistas,  nesse  sentido,  viviam  uma  especie  de  dramatica 
contradiqao,  marcada  pela  dicotomia  forma/ fundo:  de  um  lado,  eram  torna- 
dos por  uma  smdrome  da  linguagem  purista  e do  formalismo  contemplativo; 
de  outro  lado,  eram,  nao  poucas  vezes,  levados  a tratar  de  temas  de  extraqao 
popular,  pouco  condizente  com  o retoricismo  em  que  eram  vazadas  prosa  e 
poesia  academicistas.  Oposiqao  que  raramente  alcanqava  um  equacionamento 
positivo,  resultando  em  obras  de  fundo  mundano,  assentadas  sobre  uma  lin- 
guagem pretensamente  erudita,  a qual  se  constituia  em  fator  de  diferenciaqao 


MAURfCIO  SILVA 


310 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


entre  as  cscritas  academica  e jornalistica,  esta  ultima,  curiosamente,  respon- 
savel  pela  consolidac^ao  do  academicismo  no  Brasil,  divulgando  os  autores  e 
tornando-os  profissionais  da  escrita. 

Mas  esse  apego  incondicional  ao  formalismo  literario  ja  vinha  de  longe;  ape- 
nas  se  adensara  com  a emergencia  da  estetica  parnasiana  no  final  do  seculo  XDC 
e com  a prevalencia  dos  academicos  na  passagem  para  o seculo  XX,  alias,  decla- 
rados  cultores  do  Parnasianismo  literario.  Neste  sentido,  alguns  indkios  atestam 
que  essa  tendencia  ao  formalismo  teria  encontrado  suas  primeiras  manifesta^oes 
relevantes  na  Colonia,  com  o modelo  educacional  entao  adotado,  como  sugere 
Fernando  Azevedo,  para  quern  a educa^ao,  naquela  epoca,  estava  intimamente 
relacionada  a famflia,  a Igreja  e ao  poder  politico-economico.  O ensino,  por- 
tanto,  misturava  o gosto  pela  sociedade  aristocratica  e o empenho  dos  padres  na 
difusao  do  conhecimento,  segundo  as  premissas  da  religiao.  O piilpito,  com  sua 
linguagem  particular,  tornava-se,  logo,  a arena  das  discussoes: 

de  fato,  desse  ensino  que  se  completava  com  a escolastica  e a apologetica,  provie- 
ram  nao  somente  o interesse  pela  vernaculidade  e o pendor  para  dar  a tudo  expres- 
sao  literaria,  como  tambem  o amor  a forma  pela  forma,  o requinte  e os  rebusca- 
mentos,  e o gosto  das  disputa^oes  que,  mais  tarde,  no  Imperio  e na  Republica, 
pela  associa(;ao  do  espirito  literario  e do  espfrito  juridico,  deviam  prolongar-se  nas 
controversias  gramaticais  e filologicas,  como  nas  polemicas  literarias.  (Azevedo  20) 

Dando  continuidade  a essa  especie  de  tradi^ao  do  formalismo  ligado  a 
eloquencia  por  vezes  vazia  e verborragica,  poder-se-iam  apontar  as  academias 
no  seculo  XVIII;  aquela  “poesia  retorica,”  de  fundo  moralizante  e pedago- 
gico,  detectada  por  Alfredo  Bosi  (90)  entre  os  pre-romanticos,  na  passagem 
do  XVIII  para  o XIX;  ou  a oratoria  de  um  Rui  Barbosa  na  passagem  do  seculo 
XIX  para  o XX. 

Como  sugerimos,  esse  “amor  a forma  pela  forma”  pode  ser  facilmente 
detectado  na  produqao  literaria  da  passagem  do  seculo,  ocorrendo  nao  de 
modo  inconsciente,  mas  como  resultado  de  uma  deliberada  assunqao  dos 
preceitos  esteticos  provenientes  do  Parnasianismo,  fato  evidenciado  pela  lite- 
ratura  da  epoca  e confirmado  pelas  varias  tentativas  de  historicizar  nossa  pro- 
du<;ao  literaria  no  calor  da  bora  dos  acontecimentos.  E assim  que — apenas  a 
ntulo  de  exemplo — um  academico  do  porte  de  Gra^a  Aranha,  em  conferencia 
realizada  no  Atheneu  Argentino  (Buenos  Aires,  1897),  tra^ando  um  panorama 
da  literatura  brasileira  do  pen'odo,  proferia  estas  representativas  palavras,  num 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  311 

discurso  que  em  tudo  pode  ser  tornado  como  uma  especie  de  diagnostico 
oficial  da  literatura  entao  produzida: 

somos  um  povo  de  homens  de  letras:  nao  quer  isto  dizer  que  sejamos  grandes 
escriptores,  grandes  poetas  ou  oradores;  apenas  significa  que  temos  em  aka  dose, 
talvez  com  prejufzo  de  mais  vitaes  energias,  a sensualidade  da  frase  [...]•  Vivemos  da 
forma.  Para  saboreal-a  melhor,  separamol-a  do  pensamento,  e com  que  delicia  nao 
contemplamos  as  transforma^oes  por  que  passou  a frase  antiga,  simples,  lapidaria, 
limpida,  ate  chegar  ao  complicado  periodo  moderno,  em  que  a palavra  e feita  de 
musica,  impregnada  de  pintura,  e carregada  de  electricidade.  (181-213;  grifo  meu). 

Forma  separada  do  pensamento:  talvez  tenhamos,  ai,  a sintese  de  um  dos 
aspectos  esteticos  mais  representativos  da  literatura  academicista,  com  seus 
torneios  verbais,  sua  “sensualidade  da  frase,”  seu  exagero,  seu  preciosismo 
linguistico,  sua  plasticidade  na  composi^ao  de  imagens,  seus  rebuscamentos 
vocabulares,  sua  acuidade  gramatical,  seu  lusitanismo  vernaculo,  enfim  sua 
obstinada  literatizagao  da  propria  literatura,  num  flagrante  privilegio  da  forma 
em  detrimento  do  pensamento,  pela  incorpora9ao  de  pressupostos  literarios 
proprios  da  estetica  parnasiana. 

Com  efeito,  e no  Parnasianismo  que  os  escritores  academicistas  foram 
buscar  muitos  dos  elementos  esteticos  que  comporiam  seu  peculiar  modus 
faciendi,  ja  que  e por  meio  dessa  estetica  que  o culto  a forma  alcanna  o paro- 
xismo.  Para  um  critico  como  Pericles  Eugenio  da  Silva  Ramos,  o Parnasia- 
nismo pode  ser  considerado  o “reino  das  formas  fixas”  (317)  e para  um  critico 
nao  menos  atento,  como  Tristao  de  Athayde,  ele  era  marcado  pelo  “amor 
das  formas  cheias  e das  rimas  ricas”  (cit.  em  Lima  81).  Mesmo  entre  aqueles 
criticos  que  presenciaram,  no  calor  da  bora,  o auge  da  estetica  parnasiana, 
percebe-se  essa  tendencia  a vincula^ao  da  expressao  parnasiana  ao  rigor  for- 
mal: para  Araripe  Junior,  por  exemplo,  os  parnasianos  ficariam  conhecidos, 
na  historiografia  literaria,  como  os  “cultores  da  forma  impecavel”  (108) 

De  fato,  eram  exatamente  aspectos  como  a precisao  vocabular  {mot juste), 
a plasticidade,  a corre^ao  gramatical,  a impassibilidade  das  imagens  e outras 
marcas  parnasianas  que  os  academicistas — cuja  forma^ao  literaria  tinha,  em 
muitos  casos,  se  consumado  durante  a vigencia  do  Parnasianismo — cultiva- 
vam  (Pacheco;  Cidade;  Broca,  Naturalistas,  parnasianos).  Essa  adora^ao  quase 
mi'stica  da  forma  pode  ser  percebida,  por  exemplo,  nas  profissoes  de  fe  dos 
mais  representativos  autores  e/ou  criticos  academicistas,  como  e o caso  de  um 


MAURiCIO  SILVA 


312 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Olavo  Bilac,  para  quern  a pena  “Corre;  desenha,  enfeita  a imagem,  / A ideia 
vestc:  / Cinge-lhe  ao  corpo  a ampla  roupagem  / Azul-celeste  / (Pois)  Minha 
pena  / Segue  esta  norma,  / Por  te  servir,  Deusa  serena,  / Serena  Forma!”  (“Pro- 
fissao  de  fe”  06);  ou,  ainda,  de  um  Coelho  Neto,  que  igualmente  numa  pro- 
fissao  de  fe  sugestivamente  intitulada  “A  forma,”  confessa:  “por  ella  o meu 
sangLie,  toda  minh’alma  para  resguardal-a:  e o meu  amor,  e o meu  idolo,  e o 
meu  ideal — a Forma”  {Rapsodias^). 

Chega  a ser  curioso  como,  para  os  academicistas — cultores  confessos  do  for- 
malismo  parnasiano — , a forma  se  apresenta  como  uma  especie  de  vestimenta 
da  ideia,  perspectiva  ja  presente  nos  versos  citados  de  Bilac  e que  prolifera  por 
outros  escritores  do  periodo,  sobretudo  Coelho  Neto,  para  quern,  no  final  das 
contas,  “a  Forma  e o revestimento  artistico  da  phrase”  {Compendio  33). 

Trata-se,  evidentemente,  de  concep^oes  bastante  singulares  do  que  seja  a obra 
de  arte,  principalmente  a obra  de  arte  literaria,  afirmando-se  como  uma  perspec- 
tiva assumidamente  tributaria  do  mais  puro  esteticismo  parnasiano  de  origem 
francesa.  Em  seu  curioso  e verborragico  livro  Nos,  as  abelhas  ( 1 936),  por  exemplo, 
Martins  Fontes — devoto  um  tanto  tardio  do  Parnasianismo — , defende  a ideia 
de  que  essa  estetica  teria  servido  como  elo  de  liga^ao  e,  nas  suas  proprias  palavras, 
“commLinhao  sacerdotal”  entre  franceses  e brasileiros,  fazendo,  parnasianamente, 
a seguinte  compara^ao:  “o  quid  divinum  e a inspira^ao,  o fogo  sagrado;  o quid 
humanum  e o trabalho,  a arte,  a technica,  a forma”  (284). 

Essa  distin^ao  entre  o que  e inspira^ao  e o que  e tecnica  reverbera  algumas 
percep^oes  da  epoca,  como  aquela  lastimada  por  Francisca  Julia,  a maior  das 
poetisas  parnasianas,  de  que  sentia  “presa  a imagina^ao  no  limite  da  rima” 
(07)  Lamenta^oes  como  essa,  provindas  de  figuras  eminentes  do  Parnasia- 
nismo brasileiro,  nao  constitufam  propriamente  uma  afronta  a expressao  estC 
tica  parnasiana,  mas  deixam  em  aberto  um  flanco  para  todo  tipo  de  ataques 
contra  o que  era  considerado,  por  muito  crfticos  e artistas  do  periodo,  um 
excessivo  apego  ao  formalismo  estilfstico  em  detrimento  do  conteudo. 

Com  efeito,  nao  foram  poucas  as  cn'ticas  contra  os  abusos  esteticos  dos 
parnasianos  de  primeira  hora,  compreensivelmente  associados  as  mais  relevan- 
tes  figuras  do  academicismo  literario.  Num  texto  instigante  e inteligente,  por 
exemplo,  Gilberto  Amado,  fazendo  uma  especie  de  diagnostico  da  situa<;ao 
cultural  do  pafs,  ataca  esse  excessivo  apego  a forma  literaria,  em  detrimento 
da  mensagem;  critica,  assim,  a deleteria  influencia  do  classicismo  anatoliano, 
incitando  os  jovens  autores  ao  “desprezo  ostensivo  das  formas  consagradas” 
(52).  Opiniao  semelhante  a esta,  com  o mesmo  teor  crftico,  pode  ser  encon- 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


313 


trada  em  Elysio  de  Carvalho,  posi^ao  ate  certo  ponto  estranha  num  radical  de 
ocasido  integrante  de  minorias  ilustradas,  (Candido;  Prado,  ''Laurels  inslgnes’) 
mais  afeito  as  superficialidades  da  vida  mundana  e aristocratica  do  que  a uma 
autentica  literatura  militante:  condenando  os  parnasianos  por  “reduzir(em)  a 
arte  a uma  simples  questao  de  forma,”  constata  que  por  substitui'rem  “o  culto 
da  Idea  pela  Idolatria  da  Forma,  nunca  foram  nem  serao  artistas”  (Carvalho 
54).  Finalmente,  Lima  Barreto  afirma-se,  tambem,  como  um  dos  mais  acir- 
rados  criticos  do  formalismo  parnasiano  adotado  pelos  academicos,  defen- 
dendo  a ideia  de  que  a beleza  nao  se  encontra  propriamente  na  forma  literaria, 
mas  antes  em  seu  conteudo  e substancia;  semelhante  constata^ao  o levaria, 
imbui'do  daquele  sarcasmo  que  Ihe  era  caracterfstico,  a proferir  esse  pouco 
lisonjeiro  diagnostico:  “entre  nos,  nao  ha  nada  mais  parecido  com  um  poeta 
parnasiano  do  que  outro  poeta  parnasiano”  (284-85). 


Obras  Citadas 

Amado,  Gilberto.  Apparencias  e realidades.  Sao  Paulo:  Monteiro  Lobato  & C.,  1922.  Impresso. 

Aranha,  Gra^a.  “A  literatura  actual  do  Brasil.”  Revista  BrazileiraTomo  Decimo  Terceiro,  1898. 
Impresso. 

Araripe  Junior.  O movimento  literdrio  do  am  de  1893.  Obra  critica  de  Araripe  Junior.  Vol.  III. 
Rio  de  Janeiro:  Ministerio  da  Educa^ao  e Cultura/Casa  de  Rui  Barbosa,  1963.  Impresso. 

Azevedo,  Fernando.  Mascaras  e retratos.  Estudos  literdrios  sobre  escritores  e poetas  do  Brasil.  Sao 
Paulo:  Melhoramentos,  1962.  Impresso. 

Barreto,  Lima.  Impressoes  de  leitura.  Sao  Paulo:  Brasiliense,  1956.  Impresso. 

Bilac,  Olavo.  “Profissao  de  fe.”  Poesias.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Tecnoprint,  s.d.  Impresso. 

Bosi,  Alfredo.  Historia  concha  da  literatura  brasileira.  Sao  Paulo:  Gultrix,  1988.  Impresso. 

Broca,  Brito.  A vida  literaria  no  Brasil  1900.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Jose  Olympio,  1960.  Impresso. 

. Naturalistas,  parnasianos  e decadistas.  Vida  literaria  do  Realismo  ao  pre-Modernismo. 

Campinas:  Unicamp,  1991.  Impresso. 

Campos,  Humberto  de.  Antologia  da  Academia  Brasileira  de  Letras.  Trinta  anos  de  discursos 
academicos.  1897-1927.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  W.  M.  Jackson,  I960.  Impresso. 

. Mealheiro  de  Agripa.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Jose  Olympio,  1936.  Impresso. 

Candido,  Antonio.  “Radicais  de  ocasiao.”  Teresina  etc.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Paz  e Terra,  1980.  83-94. 
Impresso. 

Carvalho,  Elysio  de.  As  modernas  correntes  estheticas  na  literatura  brazileira.  Rio  de  Janeiro: 
Gamier,  1907.  Impresso. 

Cidade,  Hernani.  O conceito  de poesia  como  expressao  da  cultura.  Sua  evolugdo  atraves  das  literatu- 
ras  portuguesa  e brasileira.  Sao  Paulo:  Livraria  Academica,  1946.  Impresso. 

Pontes,  Martins.  Nds,  as  abelhas  (reminiscencias  da  epocha  de  Bilac).  Sao  Paulo:  J.  Fagundez,  s.d. 
Impresso. 


MAURfCIO  SILVA 


314 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Guerra,  Alvaro.  Palestras  com  a mocidade.  Sao  Paulo:  Pocai  Weiss  & C.,  1916.  Impresso. 

Hardman,  Francisco  Foot.  “Antigos  modernistas.”  Tempo  e Historia.  Org.  Arauto  Novaes.  Sao 
Paulo:  Companhia  das  Letras/Secretaria  Municipal  de  Cultura,  1992.  289-305.  Impresso. 

. “Engenheiros,  anarquistas,  literatos:  sinais  da  Modernidade  no  Brasil.”  Sobre  o pre- 

Modernismo.  Eds.  Jose  Murilo  de  Carvalho  et  al.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Fundaq:ao  Casa  de  Rui 
Barbosa,  1988.  23-30.  Impresso. 

. “Palavra  de  ouro,  cidade  de  palha.”  Os  pobres  na  literatura  brasileira.  Org.  Roberto 

Schwarz.  Sao  Paulo:  Brasiliense,  1983.  Impresso. 

Julia,  Francisca.  Esphinges.  Sao  Paulo:  Monteiro  Lobato  e Cia.  Editores,  1903.  Impresso. 

Leal,  Claudia  F.  B.  “Literatura  litil.  Um  estudo  sobre  tres  textos  de  fic^ao  literaria.  1900-1902.” 
Projeto  memoria  de  leitura.  Unicamp:  Campinas,  2001.  Web.  <http://www.unicamp.br/iel/ 
memoria/ensaios/baeta.html>. 

Lima,  Alceu  Amoroso.  Primeiros  estudos  I.  Contribuigdo  a historia  do  Modernismo  literdrio.  O 
pre-Modernismo  de  1919  a 1920.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Agir,  1948.  Impresso. 

Lucas,  Fabio.  O cardter  social  da  ficgao  do  Brasil.  Sao  Paulo:  Atica,  1985.  Impresso. 

Luizetto,  Flavio.  “O  recurso  da  fic^ao:  um  capitulo  da  historia  do  anarquismo  no  Brasil.” 
Libertdrios  no  Brasil.  Memorias,  lutas,  cultura.  Org.  Antonio  Arnoni  Prado.  Sao  Paulo: 
Brasiliense,  1987.  131—149.  Impresso. 

Neto,  Coelho.  Compendio  de  literatura  brasileira.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Francisco  Alves,  1913.  Impresso. 

. Rapsodias.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Gamier,  s.d.  Impresso. 

Pacheco,  Joao.  A literatura  brasileira.  O Realismo  (1870-1900).  Sao  Paulo,  Cultrix,  1971. 
Impresso. 

Prado,  Antonio  Arnoni.  Laurels  insignes  no  roteiro  de  22.  Diss.  FFLCH/USP,  1979.  Impresso. 

. “Nacionalismo  literario  e cosmopolitismo.”  America  Latina.  Palavra,  literatura  e cul- 
tura. Emancipagdo  do  discurso.  Org.  Ana  Pizarro.  Vol.  2.  Sao  Paulo/Campinas:  Memorial/ 
Unicamp,  1994.  597-613.  Impresso. 

Ramos,  Pericles  Eugenio  da  Silva.  “Consciencia  estetica  e aspiragao  a forma.”  America  Latina. 
Palavra,  literatura  e cultura.  Emancipa^ao  do  discurso.  Org.  Ana  Pizarro.  Vol.  2.  Sao  Paulo/ 
Campinas:  Memorial/Unicamp,  1994.  Impresso. 

Reis,  Roberto.  “Por  uma  arqueologia  do  Modernismo.”  Letrasdl  (1988):  101-1 14.  Impresso. 

Rio,  Joao  do.  Celebridades.  Desejo.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Patria  Portuguesa  e Lusitana,  1932.  Impresso. 

Rio,  Joao.  O momento  literdrio.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Funda^ao  Biblioteca  Nacional/Departamento 
Nacional  do  Livro,  1994.  Impresso. 


Mauncio  Silva  holds  a PhD  from  the  Universidade  de  Sao  Paulo  and  is  director  of  graduate 
studies  at  the  Universidade  Nove  de  Julho  and  editor  of  the  academic  journal  Dialogia.  He 
published  A helade  e o suburbio.  Confrontos  literdrios  na  Belle  Epoque  carioca  (Sao  Paulo: 
Edusp,  2006),  Sentidos  secretos.  Ensaios  de  literatura  brasileira  (Sao  Paulo:  Altana,  2008), 
and  O novo  acordo  ortogrdfico  da  lingua  portuguesa  (Sao  Paulo:  Contexto,  2008).  With  Rita 
Couto  he  edited  Fernando  Bonassi.  Um  escritor  multiplo  (Sao  Paulo:  Annablume,  2012). 
Email:  maurisil@gmail.com 


Os  livros  de  linhagens  da  idade  media  portuguesa: 

Os  livros  manuscritos  medievais  e sua  rede  de  poderes 


Jose  D'Assungao  Barros 


Abstract.  This  article  intends  to  examine  some  questions  referring  to 
the  relations  between  power,  book  production,  and  reading  in  the  time 
of  medieval  book  manuscripts,  reflecting  on  this  question  through  an 
analysis  of  Portuguese  ancestry  books  of  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth 
centuries.  In  the  first  part  of  the  article  I examine  the  relationship 
between  power,  society,  and  the  book  manuscript.  In  the  second  part,  I 
analyze  the  relationship  between  power,  society,  and  the  book  as  an  object 
submitted  to  social  forms  of  control. 


O que  eram,  na  Idade  Media — epoca  em  que  os  livros  eram  manuscritos  e cada 
copia  tinha  uma  existencia  unica — os  processos  de  produzir,  possuir  e ler  um 
livro?  Que  poderes  se  entrincheiravam  entre  este  gesto  de  escrever  o livro,  deter 
a sua  posse,  da-lo  a ler,  e,  finalmente,  oferta-lo  a pratica  da  leitura.  Que  posi^oes 
ocupam  o autor,  o editor  e o leitor  nesta  complexa  rede  de  liberdades  e limi- 
tes — que  poderes  se  exerciam  sobre  eles,  e de  que  poderes  eles  mesmos — autor, 
dono  da  obra,  leitor — participavam  com  os  seus  gestos  de  escrever  e ler  um 
livro  manuscrito  disponibilizado?  Chegaremos  a estas  questoes  a partir  de  uma 
reflexao  sobre  os  livros  medievais  que  tomara  como  fontes  os  chamados  livros 
de  linhagens — genealogias  produzidas  em  Portugal  entre  os  seculos  XIII  e XIV. 

Comegaremos  por  dizer  que  um  livro,  nao  importa  qual  seja,  insere-se 
necessariamente  em  uma  complexa  rede  de  poderes  e micropoderes.  Como 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  315-330. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


316 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


texto  literario,  torna-se  facilmente  espa^o  de  acesso  e de  interdi^es  a compe- 
tencias  leitoras  varias,  fechando-se  ^ueles  que  nao  compreendem  seus  codi- 
gos  oil  qLie  nao  compartilham  o idioma  comum  a comunidade  linguistica  de 
seus  leitores  preferenciais,  ao  mesmo  tempo  em  que  se  entreabre,  nos  seus 
diversos  mVeis,  ^ueies  que  podem  apreender  alguns  de  seus  sentidos  possi- 
veis.  Como  objeto  mesmo,  o livro  se  oferece  menos  ou  mais  generosamente 
aqueles  qtie  podem  adquiri-lo  ou  toma-lo  emprestado,  ou  aqueles  que  podem 
suportar  ou  sentir-se  confortaveis  diante  das  estrategias  editoriais  que  Ihe 
dao  forma  e materialidade.  Como  depositario  de  um  discurso,  na  verdade  de 
muitos  discursos,  o objeto-iivro  mostra-se,  por  fim,  interferente  e interferido, 
relacionando-se  ao  jogo  de  poderes  e micropoderes  que  afetam  a sociedade 
que  contextualiza  a sua  produ^ao  e circula^ao. 

Se  tal  ocorre  com  o livro  ja  perfeitamente  inserido  na  rede  de  mercado  livresco 
tipica  de  uma  sociedade  capitalista,  onde  o texto  materializa-se  em  um  objeto-iivro 
que  se  reproduz  mil  vezes,  dez  mil  vezes,  quinhentas  mil  vezes,  o que  nao  diremos 
para  os  livros  de  periodos  mais  recuados?  Que  sistemas  de  controle  e constran- 
gimento  nao  afetarao  os  universos  livrescos  de  tiragens  mais  modestas,  ou 
mesmo  os  livros  que  nao  eram  ainda  bem  livros,  como  os  incunabulos  impressos 
com  tipos  moveis?  Mais  ainda,  a que  sistemas  de  poderes  e contra-poderes  nao 
estarao  sujeitos  aqueles  livros  manuscritos  que,  sem  desaparecerem  totalmente 
com  a entrada  dos  tempos  modernos,  imperavam  no  perfodo  medieval? 

Para  alem  do  jogo  de  poderes  e de  lutas  de  representa^oes  que  o afetam 
consideravelmente  em  vista  do  fato  de  que  ele  e antes  de  mais  nada  um  livro- 
-texto,  o livro-manuscrito  encerra  uma  serie  de  outros  espa^os  de  interdi^oes  e 
acessos  que  se  definem  precisamente  porque  ele  e tambem  um  livro-objeto  de 
tipo  manuscrito,  com  poucas  copias,  por  vezes  ocorrendo  mesmo  ser  objeto 
unico.  Assim,  a edi^ao,  a posse,  o uso,  a leitura  de  um  livro  manuscrito  sempre 
abrigam,  nas  suas  miiltiplas  modalidades,  singulares  espa^os  de  poder — e isto 
e particularmente  valido  para  os  chamados  livros  de  linhagens  medievais.  E a 
este  genero  textual,  associado  a uma  forma  manuscrita  especifica,  que  dedica- 
remos  as  considera^oes  a seguir,  de  modo  a refletir  sobre  a rede  de  poderes  e 
micropoderes  que  podiam  afetar  os  livros  manuscritos  medievais. 

Antes  de  mais  nada,  vejamos  o que  eram  os  chamados  livros  de  linhagens. 
Temos  aqui  uma  modalidade  de  texto  que  deve  ser  inserida  no  ambito  das  gene- 
alogias.  Os  textos  genealogicos,  na  sua  forma  mais  irredunVel,  correspondem  a 
uma  sequencia  de  nomes  e de  relates  entre  os  nomes  que  constituem  uma  rede 
familiar  ou  linhagistica,  e seu  objetivo  mais  visiVel  e o de  perpetuar  a memoria 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  317 

e a historia  de  uma  sucessao  familiar,  de  uma  linhagem,  ou  mesmo  de  uma 
rede  de  historias  familiares  que  se  entrecruzam.  Quando  a genealogia  refere-se  a 
familias  que  sao  propostas  como  aristocraticas,  ou  que  a si  mesmas  atribuem  um 
status  nobreza,  encontramos  com  frequencia  a denomina^ao:  nobiliarios.  Na 
Idade  Media  portuguesa,  entre  os  seculos  XIII  e XIV,  os  nobiliarios  eram  conhe- 
cidos  mais  habitualmente  como  livros  de  linhagens,  e assumiram  fei^oes  muito 
espedficas.  Diferentemente  das  genealogias  dos  demais  paises  europeus  do  oci- 
dente  medieval,  as  genealogias  ou  livros  de  linhagens  de  Portugal  neste  periodo, 
e na  verdade  da  peninsula  iberica,  tinham  a clara  peculiaridade  de  alternarem 
a modalidade  genealogica  propriamente  dita — a mera  listagem  de  nomes,  por 
assim  dizer — com  narrativas  mais  alentadas,  de  diversos  tamanhos  e teoresd 

Por  outro  lado,  em  comum  com  as  demais  modalidades  genealogicas — tao 
recorrentes  nos  diversos  paises  europeus  do  ocidente  medieval — os  livros  de 
linhagem  tambem  costumavam  desempenhar  um  papel  de  primeira  ordem 
para  a reconstru^ao  social  da  memoria  familiar,  notadamente  no  seio  da 
nobreza  feudal.  Reconstruir  uma  lista  de  antepassados,  de  parentes  e contra- 
parentes,  de  rela^oes  entre  um  homem  e os  herois  ou  traidores  familiares  que 
o precederam,  era  inserir  este  homem  em  um  vasto  sistema  de  valores  e con- 
travalores.  Atraves  da  linhagem  que  se  tornava  visiVel  a todos  atraves  dos  nobi- 
liarios, os  diversos  individuos  pertencentes  a nobreza  viam-se  oportunamente 
inseridos  em  uma  rede  de  alianq:as  e solidariedades,  e ao  mesmo  tempo  em  um 
sistema  de  rivalidades  que  contrapunha  os  individuos  atraves  de  odios  e anti- 
patias  ancestrais  que  eram  herdados  tao  concretamente  como  as  propriedades 
fundiarias  ou  os  brasoes  de  familia.  As  linhagens,  e atraves  delas  os  nobiliarios 
que  as  registravam  por  escrito,  conferiam  ao  individuo  pertencente  a nobreza 
um  tra^o  fundamental  de  sua  identidade,  explicitando-lhe  sens  espa90s  de 
inclusao  e de  exclusao  social,  as  suas  conexoes  com  o mundo  social  e histo- 
rico,  e sobretudo  a sua  inser<;ao  e tipo  de  inser^ao  em  uma  complexa  rede  de 
entrecruzamentos  familiares  a linhagisticos. 

Conforme  se  disse,  muitas  vezes  as  genealogias  europeias  nao  passavam  de 
longas  listagens  familiares,  com  um  minimo  de  material  narrativo,  apresen- 
tando  uma  ou  outra  explica^ao  que  se  fazia  necessaria  para  o acompanhamento 
de  uma  determinada  historia  familiar  atraves  de  uma  dada  sucessao  de  casa- 
mentos  e filia^oes.  Contudo,  e precisamente  nos  reinos  ibericos  dos  seculos 
XI  ao  XIV,  e mais  particularmente  ainda  no  Portugal  dos  seculos  XIII  e XIV, 
que  as  genealogias  assumiram  ainda  esta  caracteristica  bastante  singular:  ten- 
deram  a deixar  de  ser  meras  listas  de  casamentos  e filia^oes  para  constituirem 


JOSE  D'ASSUNgAO  BARROS 


318 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


urn  gcnero  hibrido  que  misturava  a cronica  a genealogia  propriamente  dita. 
Assim,  nesta  especie  de  texto,  um  dpo  de  discurso  genealogico  em  forma  de 
lista  f-amiliar — que  vai  descrevendo  passo  a passo  uma  cadeia  linhagistica  atra- 
ves  dos  sens  sucessivos  desdobramentos — ve-se,  de  momentos  em  momentos, 
entrecortado  por  um  discurso  narrativo  que  e interpolado  a lista  genealogica 
para  pretensamente  caracterizar  o individuo  ou  a familia  descrita. 

Para  facilitar  a compreensao  deste  carater  hibrido  do  texto  linhagistico,  con- 
sideraremos  em  seguida  um  segmento  extraido  do  Livro  de  linhagens  do  conde 
D.  Pedro — o mais  bem  acabado  livro  de  linhagens  da  Idade  Media  portuguesa: 

Este  dom  Rodrigo  Gon^alvez  era  de  vinte  annos,  e com  seu  poder  foi  em  mui- 
tas  fazendas,  e diziam  por  el  as  genres  que  nunca  virom  taes  vinte  annos.  [...] 
[Prossegue  por  uma  enumera^ao  e nomea^ao  dos  descendentes  de  dom  Rodrigo 
Froiaz  e de  dom  Rodrigo  Gon^alvez  de  Pereira,  seu  neto,  donde  descendem  os 
Pereiras,  chegando  por  fim  a dom  Rodrigo  Gonsalves.] 

Este  dom  Rodrigo  Gon^alvez  foi  casado  com  dona  Enes  Sanches.  Ela  estando 
no  castelo  de  Lanhoso,  fez  maldade  com  uu  frade  de  Boiro,  e dom  Rodrigo  Gongalvez 
foi  desto  certo.  E chegou  e cerrou  as  portas  do  castelo,  e queimou  ela  e o fade  e homees 
e molheres  e bestas  e caes  e gatos  e galinh as  e todas  as  cousas  vivas,  e queimou  a camara 
e panos  de  vistir  e camas,  e non  leixou  cousa  movil.  E alguus  Ihe  preguntarom  porque 
queimara  os  homees  e molheres,  e el  respondeo  que  aquela  maldade  havia  XVII  dias 
que  se  fazia  e que  nom  podia  seer  que  tanto  durasse,  que  eles  nom  entendessem  algua 
cousa  em  que  posessem  sospeita,  a qual  sospeita  eles  deverom  descubrir. 

Depois,  foi  este  dom  Rodrigo  Gon9alvez  casado  com  dona  Sancha  Anriquiz 
de  Porto  Carreiro,  filha  de  dom  Antique  Fernandez,  o Magro,  como  se  mostra  no 
titulo  XLIII,  dos  de  Porto  Carreiro,  parrafo  3°,  e fez  em  ela  dom  Pero  Rodriguez 
de  Pereira  e dona  Froilhi  Rodriguez.  Este  dom  Pero  Rodriguez  de  Pereira  lidou 
com  dom  Pero  Poiares,  seu  primo  [...].  (21G1 1;  italicos  nossos) 

O trecho  em  italico  corresponde  a um  segmento  narrativo  que  interrompe 
o discurso  genealogico  simples — mera  descri^ao  de  nomes,  casamentos  e des- 
cendencias.  Aqui,  o genealogista  deixa  de  descrever  exclusivamente  as  rela^oes 
de  parentesco  para  passar  a narrar  um  pequeno  caso  que  envolve  o liltimo 
individuo  mencionado  na  lista  genealogica.  Pela  narrativa,  sabemos  que  o 
nobre  em  questao  fora  traido  pela  esposa  adiiltera,  mas  que  tambem  se  vingou 
exemplarmente — nao  apenas  dos  amantes  adulteros,  como  tambem  de  uma 
pequena  popula(;ao  conivente  com  a transgressao.  A narrativa  funciona  em 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  319 

multiplas  dire^oes.  Antes  de  mais  nada  confirma  a honra  do  nobre  vingador, 
ajudando  a delinear  a sua  personalidade  e reafirmando  o seu  valor  no  uni- 
verso  simbolico  linhagistico — isto  ao  mesmo  tempo  em  que  deprecia  a honra 
da  esposa  adultera,  e talvez  de  sens  eventuais  filhos  e netos  (que  alias  nao 
sao  mencionados  na  sequencia  genealogica).  Como  o nobre  em  questao  foi 
casado  uma  segunda  vez,  segundo  a descriq:ao  genealogica  que  se  segue,  ve-se 
algo  valorizado  este  novo  ramo  linhagistico  por  contraste  com  o primeiro 
ramo,  manchado  pela  antepassada  adultera. 

Ora.  Este  ramo  que  parte  do  segundo  casamento  e precisamente  aquele 
que  vai  desembocar  na  fami'lia  dos  Pereiras,  patrocinadora  de  um  refundidor 
do  Livro  de  linhagens  que  em  1382  introduz  no  texto  a narrativa  interpolada. 

Por  ai  e possiVel  vislumbrar  algo  das  motiva^oes  enaltecedoras  e depreciativas 
de  que  pode  vir  carregado  um  relato  como  o que  acabamos  de  examinar,  mor- 
mente  quando  inserido  em  uma  sequencia  genealogica  especifica.  Por  outro 
lado,  a narrativa  justifica,  talvez,  uma  violencia  praticada  por  um  nobre  contra 
toda  uma  aldeia  (uma  violencia  que  tera  efetivamente  ocorrido  ou  uma  vio- 
lencia que  se  coloca  como  passivel  de  ocorrer  no  mundo  imaginario).  Mas, 
sobretudo,  a narrativa  transmite  aos  sens  leitores-ouvintes  um  exemplum — 
oferecendo  um  padrao  de  moralidade  que  fixa  parametros  cavaleirescos  e que 
estabelece  interditos  de  varias  especies. 

As  interferencias  narrativas  podiam  se  apresentar  de  modos  diversificados 
nos  nobiliarios,  constituindo  desde  comentarios  sobre  o valor  ou  contravalor 
de  tal  ou  qual  nobre,^  ate  trechos  mais  longos  como  o que  acabamos  de  ler, 
chegando  mesmo  a narrativas  de  extensoes  consideraveis.  Narrativas  diver- 
sas  costumam  aparecer  em  cada  um  dos  tres  livros  de  linhagens  portugueses, 
configurando  portanto  uma  pratica  corrente  de  alternar  o registro  familiar 
restrito  com  relatos  de  menor  ou  maior  dimensao  e de  naturezas  diversas. 

Ha  ainda  casos  em  que  um  refundidor  posterior  interpola  comentarios  ou 
novos  segmentos  narrativos  em  uma  narrativa  ja  estabelecida  no  documento 
original.  Deste  modo,  o proprio  texto  linhagistico  converte-se  em  espa^o  para 
multiplos  enfrentamentos  sociais  e tensoes  implicitas. 

Compreendida  a forma  tipica  desta  modalidade  literaria  que  era  o livro  de 
linhagens,  poderemos  aprofundar  em  seguida  uma  nova  questao,  que  se  refere 
ao  jogo  de  poderes  e micropoderes  que  interferiam  nao  apenas  na  elabora^ao 
e circula^ao  do  texto  linhagistico,  como  na  propria  constitui(;ao  e uso  do  livro 
de  linhagens  como  objeto  manuscrito.  Sera  necessario  compreender,  de  saida, 
que  tinham  origens  diversas  as  narrativas  que  eram  interpoladas  nos  livros  de 


JOSe  D'ASSUNgAO  BARROS 


320 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


linhagens  para  esclarecer,  enaltecer  ou  depreciar  aspectos  familiares  concer- 
nentes  aos  varios  membros  da  nobreza  portugiiesa  e iberica  (ja  que  na  verdade 
os  livros  de  linhagens  portiigueses  referiam-se  nao  apenas  a familias  nobres 
portugiiesas  como  tambem  a outras  linhagens  hispanicas).  Muitas  vezes,  uma 
narrativa,  que  depois  se  veria  interpolada  em  um  livro  de  linhagens,  tinha  vida 
propria  e previa  atraves  de  uma  circula^ao  oral  na  qual  os  trovadores  medie- 
vais  desempenhavam  um  papel  central. 

Nosso  objetivo  sera  discorrer,  a partir  daqui,  sobre  as  estrategias  que  aflo- 
ram  na  passagem  das  versoes  orais  das  narrativas  linhagisticas  para  as  versoes 
escritas  dos  nobiliarios — ou,  ainda,  na  passagem  de  outras  versoes  narrativas 
ja  escritas  para  estas  versoes  escritas  que  constituem  o material  linhagistico. 
Com  alguma  liberdade  no  uso  desta  expressao,  falaremos  aqui  das  estrategias 
editoriais  envolvidas  nestas  passagens. 

Obviamente  que  um  livro  de  linhagens — bem  cultural  da  era  dos  manus- 
critos — deve  ser  diferenciado  nas  suas  estrategias  de  publica^ao  de  um  livro 
qualquer  inserido  na  era  dos  livros  impressos.  O livro  impresso,  por  exemplo, 
circula  mediante  uma  grande  quantidade  de  copias  tipograficas  e vai  ao  seu 
publico,  sendo  que  neste  caso  o editor  ira,  em  fun^ao  disto,  direcionar  as  suas 
estrategias  editoriais  para  captar  o interesse,  as  expectativas,  a competencia 
cultural  de  um  grande  publico.  Frequentemente  buscara  formulas  para  reunir 
em  um  unico  feixe  alguns  interesses  diversificados,  com  o que  podera  almejar 
captar  simultaneamente  faixas  distintas  do  publico  consumidor.  Podera  lidar 
nao  apenas  com  a publica^ao  impressa  de  textos  originals,  mas  tambem  com 
a publica^ao  popularizada  de  grandes  obras  ja  conhecidas — para  o que  achara 
Ikito  promover  opera^oes  diversas.^ 

Ja  um  livro  de  linhagens  medieval,  por  exemplo,  nao  vai  ao  seu  publico  sob 
a forma  de  inumeras  copias,  e nem  pode  ser  adquirido  no  mercado.  O publico 
e que  deve  ir  ao  livro  de  linhagens — e isto  ja  coloca  problemas  de  acesso  ao 
exemplar  unico  ou  as  copias  restritas  de  um  manuscrito  original.  Em  tempo: 
a reda(;ao  de  um  livro  mostra-se  um  empreendimento  sofisticado  na  Idade 
Media,  o que  torna  o exemplar  manuscrito  nao  apenas  um  bem  cultural  de 
luxo,  mas  tambem  um  instrumento  de  poder.  Quern  tern  o poder  neste  caso 
sao  aqueles  que  simultaneamente  controlam  o acesso  ao  livro  e definem  os  sens 
usos,  abrindo  o seu  tesouro  manuscrito  para  variadas  praticas  de  leitura  que  Ihes 
darao,  cada  uma  delas,  um  tipo  diferente  de  oportunidade  de  poder. 

A alguns  o dono  permitira  que  folheiem  o livro,  e a outros  nao.  Aos  mais 
chegados,  ou  aos  mais  importantes  no  seu  circuito  de  alian^as,  permitira 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  321 

uma  leitura  intensiva  do  livro  ou — ainda  que  lance  mao  do  conteiido  de  sen 
manuscrito  para  a cria^ao  de  novos  livros — a investiga9ao  sobre  as  informa- 
9oes  ou  sobre  a sabedoria  nele  contidas.  Em  outras  oportunidades,  ira  oferecer 
o seu  livro  para  a leitura  coletiva  em  voz  alta,  o que  ira  tanto  difundir  a sua 
imagem  de  homem  de  cultura  como  ainda  Ihe  assegurara  uma  nova  oportuni- 
dade  de  poder,  vinculada  ao  seu  direito  de  indicar  o que  sera  lido  (e  portanto 
o que  os  outros  poderao  conhecer  ou  nao  de  seu  livro).  Podera  ainda  permitir 
que  trovadores-narradores  ou  outros  difusores  culturais  memorizem  algumas 
das  passagens  do  seu  manuscrito  para  uma  posterior  difusao  ou  recria^ao, 
que  sera  posta  a correr  mediante  os  mecanismos  da  oralidade.  Quern  detem 
o livro,  por  fim,  pode  autorizar  nele  novos  acrescentamentos,  convocando 
refundidores  para  continuar  a obra  ou  completar  um  conteiido  que  ainda  nao 
se  esgotara  (e  o caso  dos  nobiliarios,  que  pretendem  registrar  uma  continui- 
dade  linhagistica  que  ultrapassa  o periodo  de  vida  dos  seus  editores). 

Estas  sao  as  estrategias  pertinentes  aquele  que  detem  a posse  do  manus- 
crito, que  pode  ou  nao  ter  sido  o empreendedor  de  sua  edi^ao  (o  livro,  de 
tao  precioso,  e objeto  de  heran^a)."^  Existem  tambem  as  estrategias  editoriais 
propriamente  ditas,  mediante  as  quais  o empreendedor  da  confec^ao  do  livro 
definira  o tipo  de  suporte,  o modo  como  o livro  e escrito,  os  materiais  a serem 
incluidos  (no  caso  de  uma  obra  aberta  como  os  nobiliarios),  as  altera^oes  a 
serem  efetivadas,  o mVel  de  linguagem  a ser  buscado,  os  recursos  para  permi- 
tir que  o livro  abrigue  duas  ou  mais  formas  de  leitura,  a presen^a  ou  nao  de 
iluminuras.  Com  todas  estas  dimensoes  cujo  controle  detem  no  processo  de 
edi^ao,  o empreendedor  do  manuscrito  joga  com  expectativas  e competencias 
textuais  a atingir,  com  mVeis  de  eficacia  a serem  alcan9ados,  com  mecanismos 
de  inclusao  ou  exclusao  de  leitores  (e,  no  caso  dos  nobiliarios,  tambem  com 
mecanismos  de  inclusao  e exclusao  daqueles  que  serao  citados  nas  narrativas  e 
listas  genealogicas).  Mesmo  a escolha  do  suporte  define  certas  oportunidades 
de  poder  e possibilidades  de  uso:  o livro  de  bancada,  por  exemplo,  nao  pode 
ser  transportado  sem  uma  certa  solenidade,  e folhear  as  suas  paginas  implica 
uma  outra  relaq:ao  de  aproxima^ao  entre  o seu  conteiido  e o seu  leitor  que  nao 
aquela  pertinente  aos  livros  de  facil  manuseio. 

Todo  este  poder  editorial,  naturalmente,  e aqui  elaborado  de  uma  maneira 
ainda  intuitiva  (estamos  muito  longe  do  mundo  das  estrategias  de  publici- 
dade).  Mas  e de  fato  um  poder  a mais  no  jogo  politico,  e os  grandes  homens  de 
cultura  da  Idade  Media  sabiam  lidar  com  estes  recursos  de  poder  assegurados 
pelo  vies  da  cultura.  Os  reis-sabios  ibericos  (como  um  Afonso  X de  Castela  ou 


JOSE  D'ASSUNgAO  BARROS 


322 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


um  D.  Dinis  de  Portugal)  ou  os  grandes  nobres  promotores  de  cultura  (como 
urn  conde  dom  Pedro),  certamente  nao  estavam  alheios  a possibilidade  de  uti- 
liza^ao  destes  poderes.  Em  vista  disto,  foram  grandes  promotores  da  feitura 
de  cronicas,  livros  de  linhagens  e cancioneiros.  Controlar  o livro,  palco  litera- 
rio  para  narrativas  e cantigas  imobilizadas  sob  a forma  manuscrita,  mostra-se 
quase  tao  importante  quanto  controlar  um  sarau  trovadoresco,  palco  concreto 
para  a expressao  de  cantigas  e narrativas  atraves  da  oralidade  ou  do  imbrica- 
mento  entre  oralidade  e escrita.  E verdade  que  existe  a diferenga  de  que  o palco 
trovadoresco  pode  acessar  ainda  as  faixas  iletradas  de  publico  (mas  o livro  tam- 
bem  pode,  e bem  verdade,  nas  suas  leituras  sociais  em  voz  alta). 

Com  isto  devemos  considerar  que  a constitui^ao  da  forma  e conteiido  de 
um  nobiliario,  a partir  do  duplo  tran^ado  da  descri^ao  genealogica  e da  rede 
de  relatos  linhagisticos,  nao  esta  isenta  da  interferencia  dos  sens  miiltiplos  edi- 
tores — no  caso  os  coletores  de  narrativas  e de  informa^oes  genealogicas,  os 
organizadores  e compiladores  do  material  linhagistico  por  eles  fornecido,  os 
promotores  do  empreendimento,  e todo  um  grupo  de  escrivaes  e homens  de 
cultura  que  se  escondem  sob  o autor  nominal  do  nobiliario  (no  caso  do  Livro 
de  linhagens)  ou  sob  nome  nenhum  (no  caso  do  Livro  velho  e do  Livro  do  dead). 

Os  nobiliarios,  como  dizi'amos,  recolhem  o seu  material  narrativo  tanto  da 
produ^ao  oral  circulante  no  pa^o  e nos  meios  senhoriais,  como  tambem  de  ver- 
soes  ja  escritas  que,  podemos  conjeturar,  circulavam  tambem  em  cadernos  e folhas 
individuals.  A existencia  destas  folhas  individuals  deve  ser  presumida  a partir  de 
uma  reflexao  sobre  os  diversos  mecanismos  possiVeis  para  a prepara^ao  ou  reali- 
za^ao  de  uma  performance  narrativa  oral.  Examinemos  algumas  possibilidades. 

A performance  oralizada  de  uma  narrativa,  em  alguns  casos,  deve  ou  pode 
se  sustentar  previamente  em  um  texto  de  base  utilizado  ou  como  roteiro  de 
orienta^ao  ou  como  texto  rigoroso  para  a memorializa^ao.  Podemo-nos  refe- 
rir  ainda  ao  caso  da  leitura  em  voz  alta  de  um  texto — seja  a partir  da  folha 
pertencente  ao  orador,  ou  entao  a partir  de  um  livro  ja  estabelecido  (no  caso, 
e bom  lembrar  que  o Livro  velho,  bem  como  algumas  das  cronicas  que  foram 
fontes  para  os  outros  dois  nobiliarios,  eram  contemporaneas  dos  saraus  pala- 
cianos  onde  circulavam  oralmente  as  narrativas  que  mais  tarde  seriam  inseri- 
das  no  Livro  do  deao  e no  Livro  de  linhagens  do  conde  dom  Pedro,  e deste  modo 
a leitura  do  Livro  velho  podia  tambem  fazer  parte  das  atividades  culturais 
ai  desenvolvidas).  Nada  disto  exclui,  naturalmente,  a co-presen^a  da  perfor- 
mance oralizada  mais  pura,  inclusive  aquela  que  vem  carregada  de  elementos 
de  improvisa(;ao  e de  intera9ao  com  o publico. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


323 


Existem  significativas  implicagoes  na  passagem  para  um  corpus  narrativo 
de  narrativas  que  antes  estavam  isoladas.  Seja  uma  versao  narrativa  que  se 
acha  registrada  isoladamente  em  uma  folha  ou  caderno  individual,  ou  seja 
uma  narrativa  que  faz  parte  do  repertorio  de  um  trovador  que  a apresenta 
eventualmente  no  espetaculo  trovadoresco,  a passagem  destas  pe^as  isoladas 
para  o corpus  do  nobiliario  as  transforma  de  imediato,  sobretudo  porque  estas 
narrativas  passam  a estar  contaminadas  pela  proximidade  das  outras  narra- 
tivas, pela  sua  alternancia  com  uma  lista  genealogica,  por  novas  conexoes 
que  ate  entao  nao  podiam  ser  imaginadas.  Coabitando  o mesmo  corpus  que 
outros  textos,  a narrativa  antes  isolada  passa  a dispor  de  novas  vozes.  Mas, 
de  maneira  inversa,  pode-se  dar  que  a narrativa  seja  tambem  separada  de  um 
corpus  anterior,  de  menores  ou  maiores  dimensoes,  para  ser  reintroduzida  em 
um  novo  corpus — e nesta  opera^ao  novos  sentidos  tambem  Ihes  sao  surpreen- 
dentemente  acrescentados.  Pode-se  dar  ainda  que,  em  casos  como  este,  algo  se 
cale  na  passagem  de  um  para  o outro  corpus^  ou  que  uma  mensagem  que  antes 
era  explkita  torne-se  agora  implicita,  suplicante  por  complexas  decifra9oes 
que  antes  seriam  dispensaveis. 

Em  smtese,  o editor-compilador  detinha  uma  boa  margem  de  manobra 
para  a manipula^ao  do  material  linhagistico  que  se  propunha  a registrar.  Com 
suas  estrategias  editoriais  visava  uma  determinada  eficacia,  o cumprimento 
de  um  programa  voltado  para  objetivos  especificos  (como  aquele  registrado 
no  prologo  do  Livro  de  linhagens),  bem  como  a ja  mencionada  competencia 
cultural  do  publico  receptor  a que  buscava  atingir  (no  caso  dos  nobiliarios  era 
a nobreza,  ou  certos  setores  da  nobreza,  que  primeiramente  se  tinha  em  vista). 
Do  mesmo  modo,  o editor-compilador  orientava  as  suas  estrategias  discur- 
sivas  e editoriais  tambem  conforme  as  expectativas  deste  receptor,  ou  ainda 
conforme  os  usos  que  poderiam  ser  dados  ao  seu  texto  ou  a partes  isoladas  de 
seu  texto  (a  leitura  individual  privada  ou  a leitura  social  em  voz  alta,  a con- 
sulta  de  base  para  performances  orais  ou  para  a composi^ao  de  novas  cronicas 
e nobiliarios,  e assim  por  diante).  Por  fim,  inseria  em  um  jogo  socio-politico, 
que  Ihe  podia  ser  favoravel,  todas  estas  oportunidades  de  poder  oriundas  do 
direito  de  definir  e de  escolher  as  multiplas  dimensoes  envolvidas  na  compo- 
si^ao  do  texto  e de  seu  suporte. 

O jogo  de  leituras  possiveis  (e  audi^oes  possiveis)  e a dimensao  que  com- 
pleta  este  complexo  circuito.  Atendo-nos  as  praticas  e modos  de  leitura  dos 
nobiliarios,  podemos  imaginar  um  nivel  mais  superficial  de  leitura  que  isola 
os  episodios  narrados  de  sua  totalidade  (portanto  desligando-os  ou  nao  per- 


JOSE  D'ASSUNCAO  BARROS 


324 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


ccbendo  a SLia  intcrtextualidade  possiVel).  Ha  tambem  uma  leitura,  ainda 
superficial,  que  se  atem  exclusivamente  aos  exempla  oferecidos  pelos  episodios 
lidos  de  maneira  isolada  (ignorando  portanto  as  conexoes  linhagisticas  pro- 
priamente  ditas,  e nao  percebendo  as  miiltiplas  deprecia^oes  e enaltecimentos 
que  se  voltam  contra  individuos  e linhagens  concretas).  Este  tipo  de  leitor 
educa-se  no  ideal  cavaleiresco,  mas  nao  nas  secretas  e maliciosas  artimanhas 
das  operagoes  genealogicas. 

Ha  o leitor  de  listas  familiares,  que  nao  se  interessa  ou  a quern  e interdi- 
tada  a leitura  mais  demorada  das  narrativas,  e que  se  concentra  apenas  nas 
referencias  genealogicas.  Este  apenas  beneficia  de  uma  compreensao  da  sua 
propria  inser^ao  familiar-linhagistica,  bem  como  das  dos  outros  nobres,  mas 
Ihe  escapam  outras  dimensoes  a serem  compreendidas  a partir  do  conteudo 
narrativo  interpolado.  E existe  por  fim  a leitura  totalizada,  que  capta  o texto 
na  sua  integridade  complexa  e habilita  o leitor  a compreender  conexoes  impli- 
citas  entre  as  varias  narrativas,  percebendo  adicionalmente  as  depreciagoes  e 
exalta^oes  que  se  escondem  nos  intersticios  da  intertextualidade,  e captando 
tambem  de  uma  maneira  mais  plena  as  li^oes  cavaleirescas  agora  concedidas, 
nao  apenas  pelas  narrativas  isoladas,  mas  pela  mega-narrativa  que  se  confunde 
com  a intera^ao  entre  todas  as  narrativas  nos  sens  secretos  dialogos  internos. 

Por  ora,  fica  registrado  que  a existencia  de  mVeis  e modos  de  leitura  dife- 
renciados  a partir  do  material  linhagistico,  bem  como  o acesso  a estes  diferen- 
tes  mVeis  e tipos  de  leitura,  criam  hierarquias  adicionais  entre  os  diversos  lei- 
tores  e ouvintes  dos  nobiliarios.  Aquele  a quern  e somente  concedida  a leitura 
ou  a audi^ao  do  episodio  isolado  ve-se  enclausurado  em  um  mVel  de  percep- 
^ao  mais  restrito  ao  entrar  em  contato  com  o material  narrativo-linhagistico,  e 
portanto  Ihe  e proposto  um  lugar  mais  modesto  na  escala  de  leitores  e ouvin- 
tes. Incluem-se  aqui  aqueles  a quern  e oferecida  a leitura  mais  esporadica  das 
paginas  do  nobiliario,  aqueles  que  somente  tern  acesso  a folhas  individuals  de 
narrativas,  ou  aqueles  que  sao  convidados  muito  eventualmente  para  os  espe- 
taculos  trovadorescos.  Naturalmente  que  nem  todos  eles  podem  ser  situados 
no  mesmo  mVel,  uma  vez  que  ha  muitos  outros  interferentes  que  desnivelam 
as  capacidades  individuals  de  entender  e perceber  os  multiplos  aspectos  de  um 
texto — inclusive  a propria  competencia  textual  conquistada  na  experiencia 
individual  de  cada  um.  Mas,  enfim,  o importante  aqui  e dar  a perceber  que 
o acesso  ao  livro  (e  a qualidade  do  acesso  ao  livro)  educa  para  novos  modos 
de  leitura  deste  livro — e que  a interdi^ao  ou  restri^ao  de  seu  acesso  impede 
a possibilidade  de  o individuo-leitor  enriquecer  seu  repertorio  de  modos  de 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  325 

leitura  de  um  livro  (o  mesmo  vale  para  o espetaculo  trovadoresco,  que  meta- 
foricamente  pode  ser  considerado  como  um  livro  interativo  aberto  para  as 
praticas  do  espetaculo  e da  oralidade). 

No  outro  extremo  do  continuum  de  competencia  textual  localizam-se  o leitor 
intensivo  do  nobiliario  e o ouvinte  frequente  dos  saraus  palacianos  e senhoriais, 
que,  tendo  um  maior  acesso  as  varias  partes  do  mega-texto  linhagi'stico,  podem 
come(;ar  a desenvolver  uma  aprendizagem  de  sua  totalidade.  Mas  e em  todo 
o caso  necessario  lembrar  que  a compreensao  plena  do  conteudo  linhagi'stico 
inclui  ainda  uma  especie  de  inicia^ao,  que  pode  ser  facilitada  atraves  de  con- 
versas  a que  se  tenha  acesso  nos  ci'rculos  de  leitores  e ouvintes  mais  experientes. 

Por  fim,  considere-se  que — dadas  as  multiplas  naturezas  dos  varios  conteiidos 
narrativos  presentes  nos  livros  de  linhagens — um  m'vel  maximo  de  competencia 
textual  pode  ser  buscado  naquele  leitor  que  realiza  aquilo  que  Roger  Chartier 
chamou  de  uma  leitura  plural  (“Textos,  impressos,  leituras”  123).  Este  leitor 
e capaz  de  distinguir  com  eficacia  o comico  do  serio,  o anedotico  do  mora- 
li'stico,  o didatico  do  meramente  enaltecedor  ou  depreciativo,  o fantastico  do 
cotidiano,  e nestas  opera^oes  se  apropriar  de  conteiidos  que  podem  favorecer  a 
sua  experiencia  individual  e a sua  posi^ao  na  luta  de  representa^oes  enfrentada 
na  vida  cotidiana.  Aqui  temos  ainda  um  leitor  que,  tal  como  exemplificare- 
mos  adiante,  possui  certas  chaves  de  intertextualidade  que  outros  desconhecem. 

E alguns  dentre  eles  chegarao  mesmo  a perceber  a pluralidade  de  sentidos  ofe- 
recidos  pelos  diversos  m'veis  narrativos,  e quiga  estarao  aptos  a captar  algo  das 
muitas  vozes  que  habitam  o discurso  linhagi'stico,  o que  de  resto  os  habilitara  a 
tirar  partido  dos  usos  abertos  a cada  narrativa. 

Esta  capacidade  mais  plena  de  leitura  do  material  linhagi'stico,  propor- 
cionadora  de  uma  visao  de  profundidade  e de  conjunto  vedada  a maioria 
dos  leitores,  podia  se  tornar  o tesouro  de  uns  poucos  que,  em  todo  o caso,  so 
podiam  receber  certas  chaves  mais  secretas  para  a compreensao  do  texto  na 
base  de  uma  transmissao  pessoal  da  informa^ao,  e isto  quando  tinham  acu- 
mulado  uma  competencia  textual  suficientemente  adequada  para  recebe-la. 
Circulando  por  fora  do  ci'rculo  dos  leitores-ouvintes  da  leitura  ou  da  audi- 
gao  fragmentada,  da  intertextualidade  nao-percebida  porque  nao-revelada, 
da  recep9ao  isolada  de  uma  narrativa  que  se  desagrega  das  outras,  este  leitor 
especial  podia  se  situar  em  uma  posi9ao  privilegiada  para  a compreensao  do 
texto  ou  do  espetaculo.  Tudo  isto  tambem  era  poder,  atraves  do  qual  aqueles 
que  o detinham  podiam  estabelecer  alian9as  de  identidade  uns  com  os  outros 
ao  mesmo  tempo  em  que  se  separavam  daqueles  que  careciam  da  informa- 


JOSE  D'ASSUNCAO  BARROS 


326 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


gao  inteira.  Pcnetrar  em  mais  um  compartimento  de  significado  era  portanto 
penetrar  em  Lim  novo  mundo,  em  uma  nova  classe  de  leitor,  em  um  novo 
recinto  de  poder  ao  qual  nem  todos  tinham  acesso.^ 

No  mais,  acrescente-se  que  a possibilidade  de  imaginar  cada  leitor  em  afi- 
nidade  com  um  modo  de  ler — ou  em  um  lugar  (nao  necessariamente  fixo)  no 
continuum  da  competencia  de  leitura — nao  nos  isenta  (como  nao  isentava  os 
editores-compiladores  que  elaboravam  as  suas  diversas  estrategias)  de  avaliar 
as  inumeras  praticas  de  leitura  possiveis  de  serem  partilhadas  por  um  niimero 
significativo  de  leitores  (e  ouvintes)  de  mVeis  diversificados.  Aproveitando 
algumas  reflexoes  ja  desenvolvidas  por  Roger  Chartier,  podemos  vislumbrar  a 
variedade  destas  praticas  que  permitiriam  que  os  usos  de  um  texto  circulassem 
“entre  leitura  em  voz  alta,  para  si  e para  os  outros,  e leitura  em  silencio,  entre 
leitura  de  foro  privado  e leitura  de  pra^a  publica,  entre  leitura  sacralizada  e 
leitura  laicizada,  entre  ‘leitura  intensiva’  e ‘leitura  extensiva’”  (“Textos,  impres- 
sos,  leituras”  131).^  Tudo  dependia,  no  caso  da  epoca  dos  nobiliarios,  de  que 
o dono  do  livro,  senhor  do  texto  entesourado,  o trouxesse  a luz  destas  praticas 
em  ocasioes  especiais  (como  quern  tira  as  joias  do  cofre  na  ocasiao  da  festa),  ou 
que  atendesse  em  algumas  ocasioes  menos  ou  mais  frequentes  as  solicita^oes 
dos  diversos  tipos  de  leitores,  exercendo  o seu  poder  de  conceder  ou  interditar 
o acesso  ao  texto  e de  em  certos  casos  definir  o seu  modo  de  leitura/ 

E precisamente  uma  sutil  rede  de  micropoderes  que,  veremos,  se  estabe- 
lecer  na  confluencia  do  ato  de  conceder  a um  leitor-ouvinte  o acesso  ao  texto 
(na  sua  materialidade,  por  assim  dizer)  e do  ato  de  conceder  aberturas  para 
este  ou  aquele  modo  ou  mVel  de  leitura.  Exemplificaremos  com  a men^ao  a 
Aristoteles  que  aparece  como  um  pormenor  do  prologo  do  Livro  de  linha- 
gens  do  conde  dom  Pedro.  A certa  altura  da  sua  introdu(;ao  ao  seu  livro  de 
linhagens,  o organizador,  menciona  uma  pequenissima  passagem  extraida  do 
pensamento  do  filosofo  grego,  registrando  ai  uma  marca  de  intertextualidade. 
Trata-se  esta  de  uma  informa^ao  a que  nem  todos  tern  acesso  no  mundo  dos 
leitores-ouvintes  linhagisticos  (muitos  nao  serao  convidados  a ler  o prologo, 
outros  nao  perceberao  a importancia  desta  men^ao  para  compreender  a erica 
com  a qual  se  dialoga,  outros  serao  meros  ouvintes  desatentos  de  narrativas 
isoladas  nos  saraus  palacianos,  e assim  por  diante).  Examinando  a questao  por 
este  vies,  uma  leitura  de  fundo  plenamente  consciente  pode  ser  pressuposta 
como  monopolizada  por  aqueles  que  se  mostrassem  capazes  de  estabelecer 
as  devidas  conexoes  intertextuais — certamente  o conde  D.  Pedro  e provavel- 
mente  alguns  leitores  privilegiados  por  um  conhecimento  previo  da  Etica  a 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  327 

Nicomaco  e das  inter-rela^oes  ocultas  entre  o nobiliario  e o texto  grego  (ou 
outras  conexoes  intertextuais  para  alem  desta). 

Quern  controla  urn  maior  niimero  de  chaves  para  a compreensao  de  urn 
texto  pode  ser  considerado,  naturalmente,  mais  poderoso  no  universo  dos 
fruidores  habituais  e esporadicos  de  urn  livro.  E ha  urn  duplo  poder  ai  envol- 
vido:  o poder  de  compreender  melhor  o que  outros  vagamente  compreendem 
ou  mesmo  ignoram,  e o de  conceder  esta  compreensao  aos  leitores  que  se 
quer  privilegiar  em  dado  momento,  o que  obviamente  ira  ocorrer  de  acordo 
com  interesses  do  proprio  concessor.  A informa^ao  e aqui  um  elemento  de 
poder.  Quern  pode  concede-la,  senao  aquele  que  controla  os  segredos  autorais 
e editorials  do  livro,  que  detem  a totalidade  de  chaves  para  a sua  compreensao, 
e que  por  outro  lado  tern  acesso  a um  certo  numero  de  bens  culturais  que 
incluem  os  livros  que  devem  ser  postos  em  intertextualidade? 

Deter  ou  conceder  a informa^ao  de  que  o Livro  de  linhagens  pode  ser  lido 
em  conexao  com  a Etica  a Nicomaco  e,  se  assim  se  decidir,  mostrar  um  exem- 
plar da  propria  obra  de  Aristoteles  aquele  leitor  que  se  pretende  privilegiar, 
neste  tempo  em  que  os  exemplares  sao  raros  porque  manuscritos — eis  aqui 
um  poder  exercido  que  concede  novos  poderes.  Afinal,  oferecer  a um  leitor 
uma  nova  chave  para  a compreensao  do  texto  sera,  neste  caso,  permitir  que  ele 
tenha  acesso  a um  compartimento  do  texto  que  ate  entao  permanecia  secreto. 

Depois  de  abrir  uma  nova  porta  no  texto,  de  penetrar  no  compartimento 
oculto,  de  adentrar  uma  passagem  secreta  que  conduz  a uma  rede  intertextual 
que  ate  entao  se  desconhecia,  a leitura  entao  ja  nao  sera  mais  a mesma — e o 
leitor  ter-se-a  transmudado  em  um  leitor  ele  mesmo  mais  poderoso,  agora 
acrescido  de  uma  nova  competencia  textual  e da  posse  de  uma  pequena  chave 
que  tambem  ele  guardara  como  um  tesouro. 

Entrevemos  aqui  como  o Livro  dc  linhagens  tambem  traz  consigo  possibi- 
lidades  nao  declaradas  de  hierarquizar  atraves  da  leitura,  de  excluir  ou  incluir 
o leitor-ouvinte  em  uma  ou  outra  classe  de  leitor,  de  criar  padroes  de  identi- 
dade  e separa^ao  conforme  as  capacidades  de  penetra^ao  nos  sentidos  da  obra. 

O livro,  suporte  solene  de  acesso  restrito,  e a informa9ao  extratextual,  lugar  de 
multiplas  mensagens  de  acessos  sutilmente  controlados,  mostram-se  aqui  dois 
tesouros  diferenciados.  Em  suma,  aqueles  que  manipulam  os  usos  do  livro  e as 
informa<;6es  sobre  o livro  atuam  potencialmente  em  diversos  ambitos.  A deter- 
mina^ao  daquilo  que  se  conhece,  quando  se  e um  nobre  atualizado  nos  parame- 
tros  cavaleirescos,  confere  a este  grupo  sociocultural  seu  modo  de  identifica^ao 
e distin^ao  (portanto  seus  criterios  de  exclusao) — e eis  aqui  um  primeiro  poder. 


JOSe  D'ASSUNCAO  BARROS 


328 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Mas,  para  dentro  deste  circulo  mais  amplo,  quantos  poderes  determinados  pela 
diversidade  de  possiVeis  saberes!  Uma  pe^a  mais  rara  no  quebra-cabe^as  da  infor- 
magao,  um  signo  a mais  no  repertorio  da  ostenta^ao,  um  segredo  ciosamente 
guardado  para  a tradu^ao  da  informa^ao  codificada,  uma  chave  capaz  de  abrir 
um  portal  de  intertextualidade. . . em  quantos  caminhos  o poder  vaza  o livro! 

Avan^aremos  por  uma  ultima  questao.  Alem  de  controlar  o acesso  a lei- 
tura,  aquele  que  detem  a posse  fisica  do  nobiliario  e tambem  o dono  de  um 
livro  inacabado,  o que  desde  ja  traz  novos  acrescimos  as  suas  possibilidades 
de  poder.  Ao  se  mostrar  como  o organizador  e proprietario  de  um  livro  em 
aberto  que  esta  em  permanente  constru^ao,  e que  aceita  novos  materiais  que 
vao  sendo  gradualmente  incorporados  ao  texto,  o dono  do  nobiliario  ou  do 
cancioneiro  controla  tambem  um  novo  espa^o  de  inclusao  e exclusao.^  O 
conde  D.  Pedro,  detentor  de  um  Livro  de  cantigas  e de  um  Nobiliario,  con- 
verte-se  por  exemplo  em  uma  expressao  deste  poder.  Com  o cancioneiro,  que 
indica  autorias  das  varias  cantigas,  lida  com  a inclusao  / exclusao  dos  autores, 
definindo  quern  ira  e quern  nao  ira  participar  da  coletanea  e,  em  um  segundo 
momento,  demarcando-os  com  estrategias  editorials  de  hierarquiza^ao  (clas- 
sificando  como  jogral  ou  trovador,  elogiando  ou  depreciando  atraves  de  rubri- 
cas).  Com  o nobiliario,  cujas  narrativas  sao  anonimas,  controla  a inclusao  / 
exclusao  dos  personagens  que  serao  mencionados  pela  literatura  linhagistica. 

Quase  seria  a pior  ofensa  para  um  nobre,  avido  de  prestigio  social,  ser 
ignorado  ou  nao  ter  os  sens  antepassados  mencionados  nas  paginas  de  um 
nobiliario  que  se  propoe  a ser  um  livro  da  nobreza  hispanica — nao  houvesse 
ainda  a situa^ao  mais  desagradavel  de  ser  lembrado  como  traidor  ou  covarde, 
como  o marido  traido  que  nao  vingou  a sua  honra,  como  o individuo  mali- 
cioso  que  engana  a sua  propria  parentela  para  alcan^ar  objetivos  mesquinhos, 
como  o raptor  que  desonra  viuvas  e donzelas  de  boa  linhagem.  Controlar  o 
acesso  e a qualidade  de  acesso  dos  personagens  a literatura  dos  nobiliarios, 
e o acesso  e a qualidade  de  acesso  dos  autores  as  paginas  dos  cancioneiros,  e 
participar  de  maneira  excepcional  do  poder  de  definir  o perfil  social  de  um 
conjunto  importante  de  individuos.  Aquelas  folhas  em  branco  em  um  nobili- 
ario ou  cancioneiro  sao  amea^adoras,  porque  sao  espa^os  de  futura  inclusao  e 
de  exclusao — espa^os  onde  serao  registradas  as  vozes  e os  silencios  dos  atores 
socials.  Lugares  da  memoria  ainda  nao  escrita,  e portanto  lugares  de  poder. 

Quanto  ao  mais,  o fenomeno  da  leitura  (e  tambem  o da  audi^ao)  mostra-se 
sempre  riquissimo  de  praticas  criadoras  das  quais  pudemos  apenas  mencionar 
uma  pequena  parte.  Sera  pertinente  atentar,  quando  possiVel,  para  os  modos 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


329 


como  a leitura  pode  afetar  o proprio  leitor,  embora  muitas  vezes  tenhamos  que 
nos  contentar  apenas  com  conjecturas  para  este  periodo  medieval  que  investi- 
gamos.  Em  ultima  instancia,  “cada  novo  leitor  e afetado  pelo  que  imagina  que 
o livro  foi  em  maos  anteriores”  (Manguel,  Uma  histdria  da  leitura  28).  Nao  e 
dificil  imaginar  a quantas  transforma^oes  se  abre  o leitor  que  folheia  o livro 
que  ele  mesmo  sabe  ter  sido  manuseado,  em  outras  ocasioes,  pelo  rei  ou  por 
um  nobre  de  saber  reconhecido.  Reconhecer-se-a  como  um  homem  especial, 
em  tao  especial  companhia,  ou  sentir-se-a  pequeno  e ocasional  ao  se  conectar 
com  os  ilustres  leitores  imaginarios  que  oprimem  o seu  privilegio  de  folhear  o 
imponente  manuscrito?  Sob  o peso  de  tais  constrangimentos,  e sob  a opressao 
do  momento  ou  da  sala  de  leitura  em  que  foi  introduzido,  conseguira  ele 
refletir  enquanto  os  olhos  revelam  o sentido  das  palavras?  Ou  dirigir-se-a  ao 
seu  anfitriao — o dono  do  livro — na  busca  de  comentarios  ou  esclarecimentos 
que  terminarao  por  orientar  a sua  propria  leitura  para  uma  dire^ao  que  ela  nao 
teria  se  estivesse  na  sua  propria  sala  de  leitura?  Que  mecanismos  de  inclusao 
e de  exclusao,  de  deforma^ao  ou  manipula9ao,  podem  qui9a  ser  entrevistos 
nesta  experiencia  tao  singular  de  ler  e dar  a ler  um  livro  de  linhagens! 


Notes 

* Os  livros  de  linhagens  foram  compilados  em  momentos  diversos  entre  o seculo  XIII  e XIV, 
sofrendo  sucessivas  interpola^oes  ate  assumirem  sua  forma  definitiva.  Sao  conhecidos  basicamente 
tres  livros  de  linhagens:  o Livro  velho,  o Livro  do  deao  e o Livro  de  linhagens  do  conde  D.  Pedro,  que 
aqui  chamaremos  de  Livro  de  linhagens.  Os  pen'odos  presumiveis  para  as  suas  compila^oes  vao  de 
1282  a 1290  para  o Livro  velho,  de  1290  a 1343  para  o Livro  do  deao,  e de  1340  a 1343  para  o 
Livro  de  linhagens.  As  tres  fontes  ja  possuem  edi(j6es  diplomaticas  importantes:  (1)  os  Livros  velhos 
de  linhagens  (incluindo  o Livro  Velho  e o Livro  do  deao)  e (2)  Livro  de  linhagens  do  conde  D.  Pedro. 

^ O segmento  genealogico  que  acabamos  de  examinar  inclui  de  saida  um  comentario  deste 
tipo,  ao  afirmar  que  “[e]ste  Rodrigo  Gonsalves  era  de  vinte  annos,  e com  seu  poder  foi  em 
muitas  fazendas,  e diziam  por  el  as  genres  que  nunca  virom  taes  vinte  annos.”  Em  seguida  a este 
comentario  curto,  recome^a  a descri^ao  genealogica. 

^ Sobre  estas  possibilidades  de  estrategias  editoriais  para  livros  impressos  do  passado,  veja- 
se  os  ensaios  de  Roger  Chartier.  No  caso,  o historiador  frances  aborda  as  publica(;6es  do  corpus 
de  Troyes  (seculo  XVII)  e a chamada  Bibliotheque  bleue,  do  seculo  XVIII.  O capitulo  “Textos, 
impressos,  leituras”  introduz  uma  discussao  geral  sobre  o tema  (121-139). 

^ Por  ocasiao  de  sua  morte,  o conde  dom  Pedro  doa  seu  Livro  de  cantigas  a seu  amigo, 
Afonso  XI  de  Castela. 

^ Podemos  considerar  as  palavras  de  Foucault  em  A ordem  do  discurso,  mais  concretamente: 
“nem  todas  as  regioes  do  discurso  sao  igualmente  abertas  e penetraveis;  algumas  sao  altamente 
proibidas  (diferenciadas  e diferenciantes),  enquanto  outras  parecem  quase  abertas  a todos  os 
ventos  e postas,  sem  restri^ao  previa,  a disposi^ao  de  cada  sujeito  que  fala”  (37)  e,  pode-se  acres- 
centar,  a disposiq:ao  do  sujeito  que  le  ou  escuta. 


JOS£  D'ASSUNgAO  BARROS 


330 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


^ E importante  ressalvar  que  hoje  em  dia  e admitida  a ideia  de  que  a leitura  individual  tendia 
a ser  no  perfodo  medieval  uma  leitura  em  voz  baixa  para  si  mesmo,  constituindo-se  em  exce^ao 
a leitura  silenciosa  propriamente  dita:  “A  leitura  envolvia  assim  um  movimento  do  aparelho 
fonador,  no  minimo  batimentos  da  glote,  um  cochicho,  mais  comumente  a vocaliza^ao,  geral- 
mente  em  voz  alta.”  Mas  e certo  tambem  que  “desde  o seculo  XIII,  o crescimento  consideravel 
do  numero  de  fontes  dispomVeis  modificara  a pratica  privada  dos  eruditos;  no  seculo  XIV,  as 
universidades,  tendo  institui'do  as  bibliotecas  abertas  aos  estudantes,  sao  levadas  a emitir  regula- 
mentos  que  exigem  a leitura  silenciosa”  (Zumthor,  A letra  e a voz  105). 

^ O ‘dono  do  Livro’  nao  precisa  ser  aqui  um  linico  indivfduo  (como  o rei  ou  o conde  D. 
Pedro).  Pode  ser  uma  institui<;ao  como  o Mosteiro  do  Santo  Tirso,  uma  linhagem  como  a dos 
Pereiras,  uma  ordem  ou  confraria. 

^ O processo  de  edi^ao  do  Livro  de  linhagens  pode  dar  uma  ideia  deste  carater  de  ‘obra  em 
constru^ao’:  entre  1325  e 1340  procede-se  a recolha  de  materiais  e a uma  primeira  reda^ao; 
entre  1340  e 1344  empreende-se  uma  segunda  reda^ao.  Decadas  depois,  efetivam-se  duas  ou 
tres  refundi^oes. 


Obras  Citadas 

Aristoteles.  Etica  a Nicomaco.  Sao  Paulo:  Abril  Cultural,  1973.  Impresso. 

Chartier,  Roger.  “Textos  e edi^es:  a ‘literatura  de  cordel.’”  A historia  cultural — entre  praticas  e 
representa(;6es.  Lisboa:  Difel,  1990.  166-187.  Impresso. 

. “Textos,  impressos,  leituras.”  A historia  cultural — entre  praticas  e representa^oes. 

Lisboa:  Difel,  1990.  121-139.  Impresso. 

Foucault,  Michel.  A ordem  do  discurso.  Sao  Paulo:  Edi^es  Loyola,  1996.  Impresso. 

Livro  de  linhagens  do  conde  D.  Pedro.  Ed.  Jose  Mattoso.  Lisboa:  Academia  de  Ciencias  de  Lisboa, 
1980.  Impresso. 

Livros  velhos  de  linhagens.  Ed.  Jose  Mattoso  and  Joseph  Piel.  Lisboa:  Academia  de  Ciencias  de 
Lisboa,  1980.  Impresso. 

Manguel,  Alberto.  Uma  historia  da  leitura.  Sao  Paulo:  CIA  das  Letras,  1997.  Impresso. 
Zumthor,  Paul.  A letra  e a voz.  Sao  Paulo:  Cia.  das  Letras,  1993.  Impresso. 


Jose  D'Assun^ao  Barros  holds  a PhD  in  history  from  the  Universidade  Federal  Fluminense 
(Brazil).  He  teaches  as  a visiting  professor  at  the  Universidade  Federal  de  Juiz  de  Fora  and 
as  a tenured  professor  at  the  Universidade  Severino  Sombra  de  Vassouras.  Among  his  books 
are  O campo  da  historia  (2004),  Cidade  e a historia  (2007),  and  Raizes  da  musica  brasileira 
(2008).  This  paper  was  made  possible  by  a grant  from  the  Gulbenkian  Foundation  of 
Lisbon  for  a research  project  at  the  Real  Gabinete  Portugues  de  Leitura  in  Rio  de  Janeiro. 


Rewriting  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus:  Editing  as  Translating 
in  Quarto  de  despejo 


Frans  Weiser 


Abstract.  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus’s  Quarto  de  despejo  catalogues  her 
experiences  living  in  a Sao  Paulo  favela.  De  Jesus  sought  personal  agency 
via  the  writing  and  publication  of  her  diaries,  yet  whether  through  the 
editing  choices  of  reporter  Audalio  Dantas  or  translator  David  St.  Clair, 
her  voice  was  mediated  and  determined  by  third  parties.  Both  men 
engage  in  translation,  understood  in  its  broadest  sense  as  rewriting,  in 
order  to  market  the  diaries.  As  a comparison  of  Dantas’s  intervention  with 
Elizabeth  Bishop’s  contemporary  translation  of  Helena  Motley’s  diaries 
suggests,  Dantas  translated  de  Jesus  for  the  Brazilian  public  via  his  editing. 


Upon  its  publication  in  1960,  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus’s  Quarto  de  despejo: 
didrio  de  uma  favelada  became  the  bestselling  book  of  all  time  in  Brazil.  Just  two 
years  later,  an  English  edition  titled  Child  of  the  D^r^was  published  and  widely 
adopted  by  North  Aanerican  universities.  The  following  analysis  suggests  that 
the  editorial  mediations  involved  in  both  versions  of  the  text  are  comparable  as 
projects  that  seek  to  translate  de  Jesus  as  a narrator  and  as  an  author,  functions 
that  are  often  purposefully  conflated  in  critical  readings  of  her  work. 

A chronicle  of  de  Jesus’s  hardships  in  a Sao  Paulo  favela.  Quarto  de  despejo 
was  an  instant  sensation,  and  the  dramatic  manner  in  which  de  Jesus  was 
“discovered”  by  a young  journalist,  Audalio  Dantas,  only  further  legitimated 
the  authenticity  attached  to  her  collected  diaries.  After  overhearing  de  Jesus 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  lillA  (2012):  331-342. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


332 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


threaten  to  put  the  misbehavior  oi  neighboring  adults  into  the  book  she  was 
writing,  Dantas  gained  her  trust  and  ran  segments  of  her  diaries  in  the  news- 
paper O Cruzeiro  (1958-60),  before  editing  and  publishing  them  together 
as  a single  text.  As  an  impoverished  black  woman,  the  gender,  racial,  and 
socioeconomic  marginalization  de  Jesus  experienced  made  her  transition  into 
a literary  sensation  all  the  more  exceptional,  although  the  acceptance  she 
had  hoped  for  proved  elusive.  Just  as  quickly  as  she  had  catapulted  to  fame, 
de  Jesus  was  also  dropped  from  the  public  spotlight,  her  subsequent  books 
largely  ignored.  She  was,  in  fact,  forced  to  return  to  foraging  for  paper  to  sur- 
vive, the  very  activity  she  poignantly  describes  in  Quarto  de  despejo.  She  died 
in  obscurity,  forgotten  by  the  literary  and  media  establishments  that  lauded 
the  sensational  pronouncements  of  her  writing  persona  yet  never  accepted  de 
Jesus  into  the  middle-class  lifestyle  for  which  she  had  struggled. 

In  an  authorial  aside  near  the  beginning  of  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus:  uma 
escritora  improvdvel  (2009),  Joel  Rufino  dos  Santos  submits  that  de  Jesus’s 
story  has  been  retold  many  times,  though  mostly  in  fragments.  The  most 
comprehensive  accounts  of  her  experience  are  still  to  be  found  in  her  own  wri- 
ting, yet  dos  Santos  cautions  against  assuming  that  de  Jesus  and  her  narrator 
completely  overlap:  “A  personagem  [da  Carolina]  esta  nas  entrelinhas  dos  sens 
livros;  sua  autora,  nos  sens  escritos;  a mulher,  nos  fatos  de  sua  vida,  que,  como 
foram  narrados  pela  autora  Carolina,  nos  dao  a imagem  da  pessoa,  nao  a sua 
Verdadeira’  realidade”  (21;  emphasis  in  the  original).  If  only  one  biography 
exists  about  de  Jesus’s  life  according  to  dos  Santos,  he  is  quick  to  highlight 
that  his  own  book  is  neither  a biography  of  de  Jesus  nor  a historical  portrait 
of  Brazil  before  and  under  the  dictatorship.  As  he  confesses,  “Minha  Carolina, 
e,  em  boa  medida,  uma  personagem  que  criei”  (21). 

His  descriptions  touch  upon  two  important  issues  with  regard  to  de  Jesus’s 
own  writing,  for  Quarto  de  despejo  also  confuses  easy  genre  classification,  hav- 
ing been  called  many  things — diary,  testimonio,  anthropological  account — 
anything,  in  other  words,  but  “literature,”  for  the  debate  surrounding  the 
general  reluctance  to  confer  literary  status  upon  the  book  continues  (Ferreira, 
“Na  obra  de  Carolina”  103).  In  fact,  well  after  de  Jesus’s  death,  a few  crit- 
ics still  maintain  that  the  diaries  are  a fraud  perpetrated  by  reporter  Audalio 
Dantas  (Levine,  Unedited  12-13).  Yet  perhaps  more  than  evoke  questions 
surrounding  the  discursive  value  of  Quarto  de  despejo,  dos  Santos’s  claim  to 
invent  his  own  de  Jesus  invites  revisitation  of  her  self-fashioning  within  the 
diaries.  Her  autobiographical  writing  is  interpreted  by  sympathetic  critics  as 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


333 


a strategic  means  of  coping  with  poverty  and  marginalization  while  seeking 
both  literary  and  social  agency,  yet  we  may  ask  whether  the  de  Jesus  who 
exists  between  the  lines  of  her  text  has  not  always  been  a character  “created”  or 
mediated  by  others.  In  Quarto  de  despejo  and  its  English  translation,  editorial 
and  translational  interventions  clearly  determine  the  meaning  of  her  work  for 
audiences  and  limit  the  extent  of  her  self-expression. 

Historians  Robert  Levine  and  Jose  Meihy,  in  large  part  responsible  for 
rescuing  de  Jesus’s  work  from  obscurity  in  the  1990s,  have  examined  the  ways 
in  which  her  words  have  been  mediated  for  her  relative  publics,  criticizing 
aspects  of  David  St.  Clair’s  English  translation  Child  of  the  Dark.  Levine  also 
interrogates  the  role  Dantas  played  as  editor  of  the  diaries,  refuting  claims 
that  the  newspaper  reporter  fabricated  de  Jesus’s  text.  Such  mediation  is  dis- 
tinct from  the  celebrated  history  in  Brazilian  literary  circles  of  source-text 
manipulation.  Vieira  points  to  the  reemergence  of  cultural  anthropophagy  via 
the  Tropicalismo  Movement  in  the  1960s  as  informing  a specifically  Brazilian 
“postmodern  translational  aesthetics,”  where  translation  is  not  understood  as 
a process  to  create  source  and  target  language  equivalence,  but  rather  a sub- 
versive means  of  devouring  and  transforming  the  original  text  (“Postmodern 
Transnational”  66-7).^  There  is  little  doubt  regarding  the  importance  that 
translations  had  for  de  Jesus’s  work  both  within  and  outside  the  country; 
her  posthumous  Didrio  de  Bitita,  for  example,  was  published  in  French  in 
1982,  four  years  before  it  was  ever  made  available  to  a Brazilian  audience  in 
Portuguese  (Levine,  Life  and  Death  74).^  Nonetheless,  while  the  self-reflexive 
approach  to  translation  that  Vieira  details  involves  a playful  irreverence,  the 
then-contemporary  translations  of  Quarto  de  despejo  demonstrate  none  of  this 
conscious  subversion,  instead  enacting  a desire  on  the  parts  of  Dantas  and  St. 
Clair  to  create  popular  texts  for  consumption  by  national  and  international 
publics,  rather  than  consuming  the  book  as  translators  interrogating  the  origi- 
nality of  a cultural  object.  To  what  extent,  then,  can  both  men’s  interventions 
be  qualified  in  terms  of  translational  aesthetics? 

Basnett  and  Lefevere  seek  to  expand  the  traditionally  understood  scope  of 
translation  as  merely  signaling  the  conversion  of  a source  text  into  a target  lan- 
guage by  instead  arguing  that  translation  encompasses  any  means  of  “rewrit- 
ing” an  original  text.  Based  on  the  cultural  norms  and  ideological  motivations 
that  must  inform  attempts  to  rewrite,  they  stress  that  its  practice  is  never  inno- 
cent or  transparent,  as  translation  typically  results  in  an  asymmetrical,  rather 
than  equal,  exchange  of  discursive  power  (“Proust’s  Grandmother”  10-11). 


FRANS  WEISER 


334 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Moreover,  there  are  multiple  types  of  translation;  in  addition  to  the  interlin- 
gual kind  that  occurs  between  distinct  languages,  intralingual  translation  per- 
forms an  important  function  as  a form  of  rewording  that  takes  place  within 
the  same  language  (Jakobson,  “On  Linguistic  Aspects”  429).  While  St.  Clair 
engages  in  the  interlingual  type  more  typically  associated  with  translation,  then, 
Dantas’s  editions  may  be  seen  to  constitute  an  intralingual  form. 

The  importance  of  Dantas’s  positionality  with  respect  to  the  text  cannot  be 
downplayed,  for  in  many  ways  Quarto  de  despejo  represents  his  own  intellec- 
tual project  to  create  social  awareness.  Meihy  wonders,  “[C]ould  Carolina  have 
existed  without  Audalio?  All  of  the  events — the  newspaper  series,  the  book,  the 
magazine  coverage,  Carolina’s  public  appearance,  seemed  part  of  an  intercon- 
nected web”  {Life  and  Death  17).  Maldonado  Class  suggests  that  Dantas’s  and 
de  Jesus’s  cooperative  relationship,  along  with  Dantas’s  explanatory  introduc- 
tion, in  which  the  reporter  inscribes  himself  onto  the  project  before  allowing  de 
Jesus’s  voice  to  be  heard,  act  as  a model  for  the  blossoming  genre  of  Hispanic 
American  testimonio  in  the  decades  that  followed  {El intelectuall'55,  280).^ 

Although  Levine  criticizes  the  extent  of  Dantas’s  omissions  and  active  cen- 
soring, he  recognizes  that  international  reading  audiences  would  not  have 
adopted  de  Jesus  as  a symbolic  oppressed  heroine  had  Dantas  published  her 
diaries  in  their  original  form  {Unedited 221).  The  phrase  quarto  de  despejo  is 
in  fact  a complex  metaphor  that  is  culturally  specific,  operating  on  multiple 
levels.  Literally  denoting  a “garbage  room,”  the  phrase  references  a back  room 
or  enclosed  porch  in  Brazilian  homes,  but  it  also  alludes  to  de  Jesus’s  mode  of 
survival  in  which  she  picked  up  trash  and  paper  to  earn  money  via  recycling; 
thus,  “the  published  diary’s  title  refers  to  a nondescript  place  in  the  back  where 
castoffs  and  garbage  were  allowed  to  accumulate — just  as  human  castoffs  and 
people  considered  rubbish  were  allowed  to  accumulate  in  the  growing  shanty- 
towns of  Brazil’s  cities”  (Levine,  Life  and  Death  46).  The  lack  of  an  equivalent 
metaphor  in  English  perhaps  explains  Dutton  Publishing  House’s  choice  to 
shift  the  American  edition’s  title  to  Child  of  the  Dark  as  a means  to  allude  to 
de  Jesus’s  emergence  from  difficult  origins  while  still  maintaining  the  sense  of 
marginalization  present  in  the  Porttiguese  title.  This  alteration  reflects  more 
than  just  a titular  shift,  however;  it  is  also  symptomatic  of  the  markedly  dis- 
tinct manners  in  which  de  Jesus’s  work  was  consumed  by  her  national  and 
international  reading  audiences.  While  part  of  her  success  stemmed  from  her 
portrayal  of  the  human  condition,  her  story  also  lent  itself  to  various  ideo- 
logical interpretations;  for  socialist  bloc  countries  her  situation  represented 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  335 

the  contradictions  of  capitalism,  though  in  Europe  and  the  United  States  her 
experiences  were  read  as  the  unjust  consequences  of  centuries  of  colonial- 
ism {Life  and  Death  1 Ironically,  within  Brazil,  her  success  stemmed  from 
Dantas’s  presentation  of  her  work  in  a way  that  neither  threatened  middle- 
class  readers  nor  specifically  called  for  reform  (Levine,  Unedited  2^7) . Thus, 
unlike  their  international  counterparts,  the  Brazilian  Intellectual  Left  rejected 
her,  for  they  perceived  that  her  individualistic  writing  did  not  attempt  to  col- 
lectively speak  for  feminist  rights  or  against  poverty. 

Yet  Dantas  not  only  polished  de  Jesus’s  image;  he  defined  it  by  choosing 
to  publish  only  her  diaries,  whereas  she  had  wanted  to  see  her  fiction  in  print. 

Indeed,  despite  the  overwhelming  success  of  her  diaries,  which  provided  suf- 
ficient financial  support  for  de  Jesus  to  move  out  of  the  favela  with  her  three 
children  and  into  a middle-class  neighborhood  that  never  accepted  her,  she 
had  incredible  difficulty  publishing  any  of  her  creative  writing.  In  her  diary 
she  relates  how  a shoemaker  warns  her  that  “nao  e aconselhavel  escrever  a 
realidade”  {Quarto  91),  but  this  is  the  only  mode  of  writing  to  which  she 
would  have  access.  When  de  Jesus  first  invited  Dantas  into  her  home  to  see 
her  writing,  she  initially  presented  her  short  stories,  but  Dantas  ignored  “the 
childlike  novels”  (St.  Clair,  Diary  12),  interested  only  in  her  testimony  of 
favela  life.  In  his  introduction  to  Quarto  de  despejo,  Dantas  repeats  sections  of 
a favorable  review  of  the  diaries  (written  by  poet  and  critic  Manuel  Bandeira), 
which  suggests  that  “Carolina  tern  bastante  talento  literario  para  nao  fazer 
literatura”  (n.  pag.).^The  compliment  is  double-edged,  and  sadly,  subsequent 
editors  appear  to  have  followed  suit.  De  Jesus’s  second  collection  of  diaries, 

Casa  de  alvenaria  (1961),  fared  poorly  on  the  market,  signaling  that  her  cul- 
tural currency  had  already  peaked.  A book  of  her  personal  proverbs  had  to  be 
published  at  her  own  expense,  and  the  novel  she  wrote  about  her  grandfather’s 
life  as  a slave,  Escravo,  was  never  successful  in  finding  a publisher  (Levine, 

Life  and  Death  73-4).  Having  faced  such  a battle  to  bring  any  of  her  fiction 
writing  to  the  market,  there  is  no  little  irony  in  de  Jesus’s  third  collection  of 
diaries,  published  posthumously  as  Didrio  de  Bitita,  being  classified  as  fiction 
by  the  publisher.  In  fact,  the  only  associations  of  de  Jesus  with  fiction  have 
represented  attempts  to  discredit  her  work,  as  when  detractors  charged  that 
Dantas  had  fictionalized  or  invented  the  accounts  of  Quarto  de  despejo. 

In  North  America,  de  Jesus’s  book  has  been  used  as  a point  of  departure 
to  discuss  poverty  in  Brazil.  Levine  expresses  surprise  that  the  book  continues 
to  be  used  in  university  classes,  wondering  if  Brazilianists  do  not  comprehend 


FRANS  WEISER 


336 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


how  dated  the  kvela  lifestyle  that  de  Jesus  lived  is.  He  also  directly  criticizes 
St.  Clairs  translation  of  the  work,  Child  of  the  Dark,  “which  has  been  in  print 
for  more  than  thirty-five  years  and  is  known  to  a generation  of  university  stu- 
dents in  Latin  American  Studies,  [but]  contains  many  errors,  missed  shadings 
of  words,  and  missed  emphases”  {Unedited  A-5) . And  yet,  St.  Clair’s  is  simply 
another  in  a string  of  ideologically  charged  translations,  both  literary  and  filmic, 
which  have  “crafted  a Carolina  for  First- World  consumption”  (Kraay,  “Docu- 
menting Carolina”  163).*^  The  notion  that  multiple  Caro  Unas  adst  presupposes 
an  original  text  to  be  rewritten,  though  the  Dantas-edited  Portuguese  text  that 
St.  Clair  translated,  for  example,  was  by  no  means  an  “original.”  There  was  pres- 
sure on  de  Jesus  to  rewrite  some  of  her  entries,  though  it  is  not  clear  whether  she 
ultimately  did  revise  any  segments  at  Dantas’s  behest.  Nonetheless,  she  may  also 
have  reacted  to  the  knowledge  from  1958  onward  that  he  would  publish  her 
work  by  writing  new  diary  entries  with  him  as  an  intended  audience,  shifting 
the  focus  from  private  to  public  production  (Maldonado  Class  251). 

In  his  translator’s  preface  to  Child  of  the  Dark,  St.  Clair  relates  Dantas’s 
claim  that  he  limited  his  editing  to  the  deletion  of  repetitious  scenes:  “1  did 
not  rewrite  [. . .].  The  words  and  ideas  are  Carolina’s.  All  1 did  was  edit”  (Diary 
13).  Dantas’s  politically  oriented  preface,  however,  is  absent  from  the  En- 
glish version,  replaced  by  St.  Clair’s  preface,  in  which  the  language  is  relatively 
neutral  and  only  glosses  de  Jesus’s  relation  to  Dantas.  Although  his  intro- 
duction erases  much  of  Dantas’s  presence  within  her  text,  toning  down  the 
political  nature  of  the  Brazilian  reporter’s  words,  St.  Clair’s  role  in  the  cre- 
ation of  de  Jesus’s  enduring  diary-image  is  much  more  invisible.  He  claims 
to  focus  instead  upon  the  authenticity  of  the  images  de  Jesus  narrates  rather 
than  upon  their  social  implications,  suggesting  that  “Carolina’s  words  are  the 
words  of  the  street  [...].  None  of  this  has  been  altered  in  the  translation,  for 
to  do  it  would  be  to  alter  the  woman  itself”  (Diary  14-15),  a claim  to  faith- 
fulness with  which  Levine  would  take  issue.  St.  Clair  is  of  course  modifying 
her  words,  though  his  above  claim  betrays  a critical  slippage,  a tendency  to 
read  de  Jesus’s  body  and  text  as  overlapping.  To  modify  de  Jesus’s  language,  in 
other  words,  would  amount  not  only  to  a translation  of  her  textual  persona, 
but  also  of  her  public  self 

Nearly  twenty  years  after  her  mother’s  death,  de  Jesus’s  daughter  granted 
Levine  access  to  the  personal  cache  of  unedited  diaries  that  de  Jesus  had  main- 
tained. Putting  to  rest  claims  that  Dantas  had  written  the  diaries,  the  archive 
provided  insurmountable  proof  that  “every  single  word  she  wrote  was  hers” 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


337 


{Unedited 2).  At  the  same  time,  the  unedited  diaries  did  provide  a means  to 
gauge  the  extent  of  Dantass  impact,  which  involved  the  deletion  of  two- 
thirds  of  her  writing  to  create  his  abridged  version.  Levine  concludes: 

Dantas’  deletions  were  so  extensive  that  the  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus  who  emerges 
from  the  pages  of  Quarto  de  despejo,  the  international  bestseller,  was  a different 
woman  from  the  one  that  emerges  from  the  pages  of  her  unedited  diaries.  The  for- 
mer was  docile,  wistful,  and  seemingly  reluctant  to  comment  on  the  gritty  realities 
of  Brazilian  politics.  Dantas  presented  her  through  his  editing  as  a woman  who 
was  aware  of  her  miserable  condition  but  who  stood  at  a curious  distance  from 
the  events  she  lived  through  [...].  The  real  Carolina,  revealed  in  her  unedited 
writings,  was  feisty,  opinionated,  and  quick  to  blame  politicians  and  officials  for 
the  wretched  conditions  in  which  the  poor  were  forced  to  live.  (15) 

Levine  is  primarily  concerned  with  the  reductive  reading  of  de  Jesus  that 
is  produced,  rather  than  the  effect  an  “alteration  of  words”  would  have  upon 
the  completeness  of  her  documentation  of  favela  conditions.  This  may  be  a 
consequence  of  critical  focus  that  has  tended  to  emphasize  de  Jesus’s  body  or 
image  rather  than  the  content  of  her  words,  a strategic  tactic  employed  by 
journalists  who  have  attempted  to  undermine  other  female  Latin  American 
testimonial  writers.^  Even  so,  de  Jesus’s  work  did  fare  better  in  Brazil  than  that 
of  most  other  contemporary  woman  authors  writing  from  marginalized  social 
positions,  which  often  simply  fell  through  the  cracks.  Even  narrative  stances 
that  were  not  as  confrontational  as  those  in  Quarto  de  despejo  were  ignored, 
as  “Brazilians  during  the  1970s  and  1980s  showed  little  interest  in  women 
writing  about  their  difficult  lives”  {Unedited  11). 

Her  success  may  partially  be  traced  to  how  Dantas  and  St.  Clair  man- 
aged to  create  an  accessible  narrator  for  distinct  audiences.  In  order  to  sug- 
gest that  the  practices  and  motivations  that  guided  the  two  men  are  not  as 
distant  as  might  initially  appear,  it  may  help  to  illustrate  Dantas’s  relation  to 
the  text  by  comparing  it  with  the  strategies  employed  in  the  contemporary 
translation  from  Portuguese  to  English  of  another  Brazilian  woman’s  diary, 
that  of  Helena  Morley.  Despite  the  obvious  differences  inherent  in  interlin- 
gual and  intralingual  mediation,  a brief  comparative  examination  of  the  issues 
involved  in  this  project  will  illustrate  the  shared  goals  to  recast  each  diary 
writer,  though  this  is  in  no  way  to  suggest  that  Morley  and  de  Jesus  narrated 
similar  issues  or  grew  up  in  similar  socioeconomic  conditions. 


FRANS  WEISER 


338 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


In  1958,  on  the  cusp  of  de  Jesus’s  publication,  the  sales  in  Brazil  of  Hel- 
ena Morley’s  Minha  vida  de  menina  were  nearly  that  of  the  previous  sixteen 
years  combined  (Machado,  “Elizabeth  Bishop’s  Translation”  130).  The  diary 
covered  Morley’s  childhood  from  1893  to  1895;  first  published  in  1942  by 
her  socialite  husband,  the  jump  in  popularity  in  Brazil  followed  Elizabeth 
Bishop’s  English  translation  of  the  diary  as  The  Diary  of  Helena  Morley.  In  an 
analysis  of  Bishop’s  structural  alterations  to  the  text,  Maria  Teresa  Machado 
is  struck  more  by  the  conscious  marketing  strategies  evoked  than  the  specific 
linguistic  issues  involved,  noting  that  for  Bishop  “it  is  the  paratext,  not  the 
text,  which  is  most  revealing  in  terms  of  commercial  expectations  and  mar- 
keting strategies.  The  paratext  comprises  the  title  of  the  work,  author’s  names, 
prefaces,  notes  and  other  such  things  which  encircle  [Morley’s]  text”  (125). 
Indeed,  a quick  examination  of  the  features  that  Machado  identifies  reveals 
that  in  addition  to  sharing  a desire  to  create  a marketable  commodity  of  the 
texts  in  their  hands,  Dantas  and  Bishop  also  follow  similar  courses  in  their 
enactment  of  their  goal. 

As  Bishop’s  personal  communication  makes  clear,  her  plan  to  create  a “book 
of  the  month”  sensation  with  Morley’s  text  included  attempting  to  link  the 
book’s  title  with  that  of  Anne  Frank’s  diary,  a political  and  emotive  tactic.  The 
mediator’s  self-inscription  upon  the  text  becomes  an  important  element  for  both 
Bishop  and  Dantas.  Machado  notes  that  Bishop’s  alteration  of  the  diary’s  original 
title  graces  the  bookcover  with  Morley’s  name  for  clarification  purposes,  as  well 
as  marking  it  as  a “diary”  for  her  North  American  audiences,  yet  it  also  leaves  a 
void  for  Bishop’s  own  name  as  translator  to  appear  immediately  below  it. 

It  is  in  Bishop’s  long  introduction,  which  competes  with  Helena’s  diary, 
where  connections  become  most  salient  regarding  how  each  respective  editor 
stakes  a claim  to  mediate  the  diaries  of  Morley  and  de  Jesus.  Bishop  explains 
that  when  she  visited  Helena  Morley  in  Brazil,^  Morley’s  husband  revealed 
that  he  was  in  fact  the  editor  of  the  diaries,  having  decided  to  “put  together 
all  the  old  scraps  and  notebooks  and  prepare  them  for  publication”  {Helena 
Morley  xii).  He  also  decided  to  limit  the  diaries  published  in  order  to  omit 
his  presence  in  her  life.  Like  Dantas,  the  invisible  hand  of  Morley’s  husband 
performed  an  act  of  omission  via  his  decision  regarding  what  aspects  and 
which  years  of  Morley’s  experience  to  use  as  parameters  for  the  publication. 
For  Bishop,  the  primary  concern  in  Morley’s  diaries  is  that  really  hap- 
pened, everything  did  take  place  [...]  just  the  way  Helena  says  it  did”  (xxvi; 
emphasis  in  the  original).  This  obligation  to  justify  or  claim  the  veracity  of 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  339 

the  text  mirrors  Dantas’s  own  introduction,  which  champions  the  authentic- 
ity of  de  Jesus’s  book,  lauding  it  over  fiction,  since  “romances,  quase  sempre, 
sao  relatos  ingenuos,  sem  os  elementos  capazes  de  interessar  a alguem  que  nao 
seja  o proprio  autor.  Ora,  Carolina  nao  escreveu  um  romance,  mas  sim,  um 
depoimento  que,  partindo  da  angiistia  individual,  expos  as  angustias  de  toda 
uma  comunidade”  (n.  pag.). 

A paradoxical  relationship  develops  between  the  desire  for  the  translator’s 
visibility  via  the  introduction  and  invisibility  within  each  set  of  diaries;  for  both 
Bishop  and  Dantas  the  most  salient  aspect  of  their  involvement  concerns  omis- 
sion. In  Bishop’s  translated  version,  thirty-eight  of  Motley’s  diary  entries  have 
been  completely  deleted,  while  within  the  entries  preserved,  entire  paragraphs 
are  missing,  representing  possible  censorship  of  comments  deemed  unsettling 
for  her  North  American  audience.  Machado  does  not  take  issue  with  the  liber- 
ties that  Bishop  herself  has  taken,  but  rather  her  silence,  her  invisibility  with 
regard  to  this  “extensive  pruning,”  which  is  not  acknowledged  in  any  way  in 
the  introduction  to  educate  the  reader  (129).  Although  Dantas  in  his  introduc- 
tion does  confess  to  having  deleted  phrases  in  order  to  defend  himself  against 
charges  of  fraud,  he  does  not  specify  the  degree  of  the  deletion.  He  claims  to 
merely  minimize  repletion,  though  potentially  troubling  commentary  was  simi- 
larly omitted.  He  frequently  condensed  eight  pages  into  a single  paragraph, 
and  at  one  point,  more  than  one  hundred  pages  of  de  Jesus’s  diaries  were  cut 
to  a mere  four  pages  (Levine,  Unedited  186).  Nonetheless,  the  packaging  as  a 
testimonial  work  was  successful:  “[T]his  is  not  to  say  that  [as  a book]  Quarto 
suffered  because  of  the  deletions:  its  simple  brevity  contributed  to  its  power  as 
a social  document  and  testimony.  But  the  edited  notebooks  projected  an  image 
of  the  author  that  short-changed  her  personality”  (206). 

The  point  of  Bishop’s  appropriative  strategies,  argues  Machado,  is  to 
appeal  to  a mass  audience,  and  the  manner  in  which  her  translation  liter- 
ally rewrites  Motley’s  persona  and  text  helps  put  into  perspective  Dantas’s 
alterations  in  his  own  appeal  to  mass  readership.  With  her  disproportionately 
long  introduction.  Bishop  manages  to  bring  her  own  presence  into  the  read- 
er’s focus.  And  for  all  the  brevity  of  Dantas’s  words,  his  presence  too  marks 
de  Jesus’s  text.  In  his  marketing  role  as  editor,  he  enacts  similar  strategies  to 
that  of  Bishop  as  translator — he  assumes  the  role  of  de  Jesus’s  first  translator, 
though  certainly  not  her  last.  In  newspapers,  the  very  medium  that  allowed 
for  her  exposure  and  subsequent  success,  journalists  would  continue  to  medi- 
ate de  Jesus’s  words  to  the  public,  editing  and  constructing  her  words  as  they 


FRANS  WEISER 


340 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


saw  In  doing  so,  they  treated  de  Jesus  in  very  similar  fashion  to  the  way 
that  Bishop  imagines  Brazil  in  her  translation;  the  country  never  emerges  as 
a subject,  but  rather  as  a medium  or  vehicle  to  discuss  social  tensions  (Cuci- 
nella,  “Representing  and  Translating  Brazil”  113).  There  is  truth  in  Dantas’s 
claim  that  the  central  subject  of  Quarto  de  despejo  is  not  de  Jesus  herself  (he 
claims  that  hunger  is),  though  perhaps  not  in  the  sense  that  he  intends.  It  may 
be  equally  possible  to  suggest  that  within  Dantas’s  text  de  Jesus  also  serves  as 
a vehicle  rather  than  as  a subject. 

The  battle  over  de  Jesus’s  words  continues.  Levine’s  and  Meihy’s  publica- 
tion of  her  unedited  diaries  in  1999  is  intended  as  a corrective  to  the  last- 
ing image  of  the  author  of  Quarto  de  despejo  by  “setting  the  record  straight.” 
Unlike  dos  Santos’s  claim  to  write  a book  about  the  female  author  that  is 
neither  personal  biography  nor  public  history,  Levine  and  Meihy  aim  to  do 
both  things  by  restoring  de  Jesus’s  own  words  (Unedited  17).  In  addition  to 
analyzing  intellectuals’  motivations  for  misrepresenting  her  and  her  work,  the 
book  attempts  to  undo  the  de  Jesus  that  Dantas  created  through  his  massive 
omissions  in  order  to  better  demonstrate  her  contradictions  and  complexities. 
Additionally,  their  retranslations  seek  to  correct  the  errors  in  St.  Clair’s  ver- 
sion, although  this  would  seem  to  only  be  the  first  step  in  a necessarily  long 
project;  de  Jesus’s  image,  already  constructed,  will  be  difficult  to  disturb  or 
rewrite.  Importantly,  a variety  of  forms  of  translation  are  once  again  the  key 
vehicle  for  uncovering  de  Jesus,  though,  ironically,  while  the  two  historians 
attempt  to  be  as  faithful  to  her  words  as  possible,  they  admit  that  they  too  are 
forced  to  edit  and  delete  sections  in  order  to  present  representative  samplings 
of  the  real  individual  and  her  work. 


Notes 

' Vieira  utilizes  the  work  of  Augusto  de  Campos  and  Haroldo  de  Campos  as  examples  of 
“transtextualization.” 

^ Ferreira  notes  that  the  original  title,  Um  Brasil  para  brasileiros,  was  altered  by  the  editors 
to  include  de  Jesus’s  childhood  nickname  “Bitita,”  but  also  infantilized  the  work  in  the  process, 
changing  the  emphasis  from  nation  to  personal  memories  (106). 

^ Just  as  Rigoberta  Menchii  would  later  seek  to  discredit  the  editorial  intervention  of  anthro- 
pologist Elisabeth  Burgos-Debray  in  Me  llama  Rigoberta  Menchii,  y ast  me  nacio  la  conciencia 
( 1 982),  there  also  existed  tensions  between  de  Jesus  and  Dantas,  which  the  former  wrote  about, 
and  which  may  have  been  suppressed  by  Dantas.  For  excellent  analyses  of  Latin  American  and 
North  American  intellectuals’  stake  in  the  success  of  Quarto  de  despejo,  see  both  Maldonado 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


341 


Class’s  El  intelectual y el  sujeto  testimonial  en  la  literatura  latinoamericana  and  Paulino  Bueno’s 
“Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus  in  the  Context  of  Testimonios." 

^ Given  the  reception  of  de  Jesus’s  work  in  Europe,  the  British  version  published  by  Souve- 
nir Press  is  curious,  as  the  translation  by  St.  Clair  is  rendered  as  Beyond  All  Pity,  prompting  the 
reader  to  question  who  or  what  is  exactly  beyond  all  pity.  Is  it  the  collected  diaries  or  de  Jesus? 
In  such  a case  it  would  serve  as  an  ironic  reference  to  Brazilian  society’s  treatment  of  de  Jesus 
once  her  initial  success  faded  from  the  national  spotlight. 

^ For  a discussion  of  the  literary  qualities  in  Quarto  de  despejo,  see  Vogt’s  “Trabalho,  pobreza 
e trabalho  intelectual.” 

^ Kraay  laments  the  one-dimensional  nature  of  de  Jesus’s  representation  in  a review  of  one  of 
the  few  film  projects  about  her  to  survive  beyond  its  planning  stages,  Favela:  Das  Leben  in  Armut 
(1972).  Much  as  Levine  argues  about  the  one-dimensional  image  of  de  Jesus  that  Dantas’s  editing 
created,  Kraay  believes  that  this  packaging  for  international  readership  comes  at  the  expense  of 
the  complexity  with  which  she  treats  the  favela  “condition”  in  her  work. 

^ The  “chain”  of  originality  is  complicated  even  within  the  translation.  St.  Clair  does  not  iden- 
tify the  source  of  the  citation,  though  he  may  well  be  referring  to  a line  from  Dantas’s  own  intro- 
duction to  the  Portuguese  edition  where  the  reporter  quotes  Manuel  Bandeira’s  literary  review  in 
self-defense  of  his  role  in  the  diary’s  publication:  “Este  declarou  no  prefacio  que  selecionou  trechos 
dos  cadernos  de  Carolina,  suprimiu  frases.  Mas  nao  enxertou  nada.  Acredito”  (n.  pag.). 

® Valdivia  analyzes  journalistic  attempts  to  minimalize  the  impact  of  Nobel  Peace  Laureate 
Rigoberta  Menchu  via  focusing  upon  her  image  rather  than  her  message  (“Gendered  Silence”  117). 

^ Helena  Morley  is  the  pseudonym  under  which  Alice  Dayrell  Brant  wrote. 

In  a diary  entry  from  1961,  de  Jesus  mentions  she  is  at  work  on  a novel  Diabolic  Woman 
{Quarto  111).  Unfortunately,  the  book  suffered  the  fate  of  her  other  works  of  fiction,  never 
seeing  the  light  of  day.  As  de  Jesus  relates,  her  work  was  interrupted  by  a female  reporter  from 
Rio  de  Janeiro  who,  instead  of  listening  to  de  Jesus’s  answers,  wanted  something  sensational 
and  tried  to  convince  de  Jesus  to  claim  she  was  in  the  midst  of  a love  affair. 


Works  Cited 

Basnett,  Susan,  and  Andre  Lefevere.  “Proust’s  Grandmother  and  the  Thousand  and  One 
Nights:  The  ‘Cultural  Turn’  in  Translation  Studies.”  Translation,  History,  and  Culture.  Eds. 
Susan  Basnett  and  Andre  Lefevere.  London:  Pinter’s,  1990.  1-13.  Print. 

Bueno,  Eva  Paulino.  “Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus  in  the  Context  of  Testimonios-.  Race,  Textuality, 
Exclusion.”  Criticism  A\ .1  (Winter  1999):  257-284.  Print. 

Cucinella,  Catherine.  ‘“Not  One  Word  More  Apt  or  Bright?’  Representing  and  Translating 
Brazil  in  the  Diary  of  ‘Helena  Morley.’”  The  Art  of  Elizabeth  Bishop.  Eds.  Sandra  Regina 
Goulart  Almeida  et  al.  Belo  Horizonte,  Brazil:  Universidade  Federal  de  Minas  Gerais, 
2002.  113-123.  Print. 

Ferreira,  Deborah.  “Na  obra  de  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus,  um  Brasil  esquecido.”  Luso-Brazilian 
Review  5^.1  (Summer  2002):  103-119.  Print. 

Jakobson,  Roman.  “On  Linguistic  Aspects  of  Translation.”  Language  in  Literature.  Cambridge, 
MA:  Belknap,  1987.  428-35.  Print. 

Jesus,  Carolina  Maria  de.  Child  of  the  Dark:  The  Diary  of  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus.  Trans.  David 
St.  Clair.  New  York:  Mentor,  1963.  Print. 


FRANS  WEISER 


342 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


. Quarto  de  despejo:  didrio  de  uma  favelada.  Sao  Paulo:  Livraria  F.  Alves,  1963.  Print. 

. The  Unedited  Diaries  of  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus.  Eds.  Robert  Levine  and  Jose  Carlos 

Sebe  Bom  Meihy.  Trans.  Nancy  P.  S.  Naro  and  Cristina  Mehrtens.  New  Brunswick,  NJ: 
Rutgers  UP,  1999.  Print. 

Kraay,  Hendrik.  “Documenting  Carolina:  Favela:  Life  of  Poverty."  Luso-Brazilian  Review  ?>G.\ 
(Summer  1999):  163-164.  Print. 

Levine,  Robert,  and  Jose  Carlos  Sebe  Bom  Meihy.  The  Life  and  Death  of  Carolina  Maria  de 
Jesus.  Albuquerque,  NM:  U of  New  Mexico  P,  1995.  Print. 

Machado,  Maria  Teresa.  “Elizabeth  Bishop’s  Translation  of  the  Diary  of ‘Helena  Morley.’”  The 
Art  of  Elizabeth  Bishop.  Eds.  Sandra  Regina  Goulart  Almeida  et  al.  Belo  Horizonte,  Brazil: 
Universidade  Federal  de  Minas  Gerais,  2002.  124-131.  Print. 

Maldonado  Class,  Joaquin.  El  intelectual y el  sujeto  testimonial  en  la  literatura  latinoamericana. 
Madrid:  Editorial  Pliegos,  2008.  Print. 

Morley,  Helena.  The  Diary  ofEIelena  Morley.  Trans.  Elizabeth  Bishop.  New  York:  Ecco,  1977. 
Print. 

Santos,  Joel  Rufino  dos.  Carolina  Maria  de  Jesus:  uma  escritora  improvdvel.  Rio  de  Janeiro: 
Garamond,  2009.  Print. 

Valdivia,  Angharad.  “Gendered  Silence  and  Resistance:  Rigoberta  Menchu  Reaches  the  Global 
Arena.”  A Latina  in  the  Land  of  Liollywood  and  Other  Essays  on  Media  Culture.  Tucson,  AZ: 
U of  Arizona  P,  2000.  107-124.  Print. 

Vieira,  Else  Ribeira  Pires.  “A  Postmodern  Transnational  Aesthetics  in  Brazil.”  Translational 
Studies:  An  Interdiscipline.  Eds.  Mary  Snelly  Hornby  et  al.  Amsterdam:  J.  Benjamins,  1994. 
65-72.  Print. 

Vogt,  Carlos.  “Trabalho,  pobreza  e trabalho  intelectual.”  Os  pobres  na  literatura  brasileira.  Ed. 
Roberto  Schwarz.  Sao  Paulo:  Editora  Brasiliense,  1983.  204—213.  Print. 


Frans  Weiser  is  a postdoctoral  fellow  in  the  Department  of  Hispanic  Languages  and 
Literatures  at  the  University  of  Pittsburgh.  His  current  research  concerns  hemispheric 
American  historical  fiction,  Latin  American  intellectual  history,  and  transnational  film. 
Email:  frw5@pitt.edu 


Portingale  to  Portugee 


George  Monteiro 


For  Victor  Mendes 


Abstract.  Still  employed  derisively,  particularly  in  certain  locales  and 
in  specific  situations,  the  variously  spelled  term  “portagee”  has  a long 
history.  Beginning  with  a relatively  naive  confusion  over  the  English 
pronunciation  and  spelling  of  the  singular  and  plural  forms  of  “portugues” 
and  “portugueses,”  the  word  “Portuguese”  turned  (by  a sort  of  back- 
formation)  into  “Portugee.”  Significantly,  the  term  “portagee”  seems 
not  to  have  started  out  as  a derisive  ethnic  slur,  but  became  one,  almost 
exclusively,  over  three  or  four  centuries.  It  was  even  used,  interchangeably 
with  the  term  “Dago”  at  times,  to  refer  to  “dark”  foreigners,  usually  taken 
to  be  of  southern  European  origin. 


Vagrancy  is  a crime  unknown  in  the  Azores,  it  being  the  natural  habit  of  the 
population. 

“Winnowings.”  Cincinnati  Daily  Enquirer  14  April  1872:  2. 

Evening  Bulletin  [San  Erancisco]  20  April  1872:  4. 

Of  one  very  noticeable  feature  of  the  present  commercial  convulsion,  we  really 
have  some  reason  to  be,  as  a people,  ashamed.  After  vaunting,  for  years,  in  the  face 
of  all  mankind,  our  wonderful  “practical  sense,”  and  our  unparalleled  cleverness 
in  regard  to  things  material,  we  no  sooner  find  ourselves  in  the  midst  of  a financial 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  343-359. 

© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


344 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Storm,  than  we  lose  our  wits  and  set  up  a confused  outcry  of  incoherent  exclama- 
tions, which  would  disgrace  a Portuguese  crew  driving  on  a lee  shore.  Nobody  can 

be  found  to  take  or  to  hold  the  helm 

“The  Clerg)^  and  the  Crisis.”  New  York  Times 
14  Oct.  1857:  4. 

The  Spaniards  and  Portuguese  have,  more  perhaps  than  any  other  people,  been 
the  subjects  of  that  John  Bull-ish  kind  of  prejudice  which  looks  upon  all  foreign- 
ers as  “outland  dogs,”  whom  the  honour  of  their  own  country  requires  them  to 
despise  and  misrepresent. 

“Portuguese  Hospitality.”  Cincinnati  Literary  Gazette 
5 Feb.  1825  [3]:  42. 

Strip  a Spaniard  of  his  virtues  and  the  residuum  will  be  a Portuguese. 

Hartford  Courant  16  Oct.  1900:  18. 

The  word  ’Gee  {g  hard)  is  an  abbreviation,  by  seamen,  of  Portuguee,  the  corrupt 
form  of  Portuguese. 

Herman  Melville.  “The  ‘Gees.’”  Harper’s  New  Monthly 
Magazine  1856  [12]:  507. 

The  Captain  says,  “Curs  don’t  grow  out  of  lions’  cubs;  you  can’t  turn  a white  boy 
into  a nigger;  and  a Portugee,  as  every  sailor  knows,  is  a Portugee  by  birth.” 
Walter  Besant  and  W.  J.  Rice.  By  Celia’s  Arbor, 

Appletons  Journal  M.2lx.  1878  [4]:  237. 

The  swarthy  skins  and  dark,  glancing  eyes  that  betokened  the  Portuguese  or  the 
“greaser”  were  there  in  plenty,  while  here  and  there  throughout  the  crowd  could 
be  seen  the  heavier  forms  and  duller  features  of  the  German  and  Swede. 

Viola  Bruce.  “On  the  Gonzales  Ranch.”  Overland 
Monthly  Oci.  1899  [34]:  327. 

“Look  at  all  the  children!”  Saxon  cried.  “School’s  letting  out.  And  nearly  all  are 
Portuguese,  Billy,  not  Porchugeeze.” 

Jack  London.  The  Valley  of  the  Moon.  New  York: 

Macmillan,  1913:  303. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


345 


The  Anglos  called  this  zone  the  Portuguese  Flats  {Porta-geeze  was  the  way  they 
said  it),  which  may  have  meant  some  Portuguese  once  had  lived  there,  or  may 
simply  have  implied  that  it  was  filled  with  greasers. 

Richard  Ben  Cramer.  Joe  DiMaggio:  The  Hero’s  Life. 

New  York:  Simon  & Schuster,  2000:  17. 

One  Frenchman  will  beat  two  Portugee  / And  one  Englishman  will  beat  all  three. 
English  Sailors  Phrase  (1824).^ 

The  Captain  of  a whaler  to  his  mutinous  crew:  “I  haven’t  a bit  of  confidence  in 
Portugese.  Good  wages  and  kind  treatment  have  no  effect  on  them.  They  are 
born  cutthroats.  There  is  not  a man  of  you  that  would  not  disgrace  a yellow  dog 
by  his  company.” 

Biloxi  Herald  15  Oct.  1892:  3. 

“Even  if  I placarded  my  name  on  my  back  and  what  I did,  ’taint  likely  I’d  have 
to  face  a grand  jury  for  running  a knife  into  a mongrel  Portuguee  way  out  in  the 
South  Sea  a score  of  years  ago.” 

Louis  Becke.  The  Ebbing  of  the  Tide,  quoted  in  The  Book 
[New  York]  1 July  1896  [13]:  370. 

If  the  Bermuda  farmer  is  a “Portagee”  (which  he  frequently  is  when  he’s  not  a 
Saban  or  a Turks  Islander,  or  a colored  person),  when  the  weeding  takes  place,  all 
the  family  from  the  cradle  to  the  grave  assist  at  the  ceremonial. 

Fianna  Rion.  “A  Few  Kind  Words  about  the  Bermuda  Onion.” 

The  Craftsman  1 June  1911  [20]:  326. 

“I  have  sailed  the  high  seas,  touched  the  coast  of  Africa,  went  up  the  Amazon 
when  I was  a cabin  boy,  talked  with  frog-eaters,  Portogees,  Lascars,  greasers,  spig- 

goties  and  one-eyed  Swede  captains ” 

Richard  Washburn  Child.  “The  A and  B of  Little  Jess.” 

Hampton  Magazine  \flzw  Yos\P[  Feb.  1912  [27]:  14. 

“‘Yup,  I don’t  care  much  for  whale’s  meat  ...  fer  eatin’  purposes  . . . it’s  almost  as 
bad  as  jellyfishes  which  no  animal  will  eat  ...  except  a Portyguese,  and  they  goes 
bughouse  about  ’em....” 

Glenn  Fi.  Mullin.  Adventures  of  a Scholar  Tramp. 

New  York  & London:  Century,  1925:  264-5. 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


346 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


We  once  discussed  which  were  the  cleanest  troops  in  trenches,  taken  by  nation- 
alities. We  agreed  on  a descending-order  list  like  this:  English  and  German 
Protestants,  Northern  Irish,  Welsh  and  Canadians;  Irish  and  German  Catholics; 
Scots,  with  certain  higher-ranking  exceptions;  Mohammedan  Indians;  Algerians; 
Portuguese;  Belgians;  French.  We  pur  the  Belgians  and  French  there  for  spite;  they 
could  not  have  been  dirtier  than  the  Algerians  and  the  Portuguese. 

Robert  Graves.  Good-bye  to  All  That.  1929.  New  York: 

Anchor  Books/Doubleday,  1985:  182. 

The  community  is  eminently  Portuguese — that  is  to  say,  it  is  slow,  poor,  shiftless, 
sleepy  and  lazy. 

“Mark  Twain’s  Description  of  the  Azore  Islands.” 

San  Francisco  Daily  Bulletin  22  Aug.  1867:  1. 

Ev’ry  time  I write  some  Portugee 
The  wise  ginks  start  to  kinnin’  me. 

Don’t  matter  if  ’taint  the  best  there  be. 

They  all  wanter  stop  a-kiddin’  me. 

I could  slip  you  many  a wheeze 
If  I’d  be  let  do  it  in  Portugeez. 

So  tell  them  guys  they’d  better  cheese 
Diggin’  into  my  Portugeez. 

M.  G.  “Stop  Kidding  Mack-Gaffney’s  Portuguese.” 

Chicago  Daily  Tribune  17  Mar.  1912:  Cl. 

The  Buffalo  Express  in  a ribald  spirit  remarks:  “Judging  from  the  way  Dom  Pedro 
scooted  through  Chicago,  we  fancy  he  had  heard  of  King  Kalakaua’s  experience 
with  Mayor  Colvin  and  the  Board  of  trade.  There’s  no  telling  what  Colvin  would 
have  said,  but  the  playful  young  men  of  the  Board  of  trade  would  undoubtedly 
have  hailed  him  as  ‘Old  Brazil-Nuts,’  and  have  urged  him  to  ‘pull  down  his  vest,’ 
in  the  choicest  Portugee.” 

Chicago  Daily  Tribune  2'5  Apr.  1876:  4. 

The  White  Dawn  follows  the  adventures  of  three  American  whalers  trapped  on 
Canada’s  frozen  Baffin  Island  after  their  boat  capsizes  and  their  companions 
drown.  The  three  are  an  odd  lot:  Billy,  a roughneck,  impetuous  brawler;  Daggett, 
a sensitive,  inquisitive  young  man  and  Portagee,  a good-natured  black. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


347 


Gene  Siskel.  “Truth  Blows  in  On  Gale-Force  Wind.”  Chicago  Tribune  23  Aug. 

1974:  Bl. 

I know  they  call  Spanish-speaking  people  Spicks.  But  what  do  you  call  the  Portuguese? — 

We  call  them  Pricks,  of  course. 

Anonymous  [1968]. 

In  the  state  of  New  York  newspapers  offer  references  to  “Flenry  Portugee”  ( The 

Cabinet  [Schenectady]  10  Feb.  1824:  4),  “William  A.  Portugee”  {Kingston  Daily 

Freeman  26  Nov.  1883:  2),  and  “Eliza  Portagee”  {Kingston  Daily  Freeman  4 Jun. 

1923:  1). 

The  Elizabethan  Age  knew  the  name  of  the  country  running  down  the  west- 
ern side  of  the  Iberian  peninsula  as  Portingal  and  its  denizens  as  Portingales, 
terms  that  over  time  turned  into  Portugal  for  the  nation,  Portuguese  for  its 
inhabitants.  The  latter  soon  became  problematic  to  some,  who  seemed  unable 
to  negotiate  the  fact  that  the  word  “Portuguese”  was  both  singular  and  plural, 
with  the  upshot  being,  by  some  sort  of  back-formation,  that  while  Portuguese 
retained  its  value  as  a plural,  Portugee  became  the  colloquial  term  for  the  sin- 
gular. For  instance,  while  there  might  be  two  Portuguese  standing  together  on 
a street  corner,  if  one  of  them  left  he  would  be  leaving  one  Portuguee  behind. 
Inevitably,  the  second  “u”  dropped  out  of  the  spelling  (the  American  poet, 
Elizabeth  Bishop,  who  spent  nearly  two  decades  living  in  Brazil,  invariably 
spelled  the  word  “Portugese”),  and  the  term  was  spelled  in  various  ways,  run- 
ning through  all  the  vowels  and  then  some — Port(7?)gee,  Port(^’)gee,  Port(/) 
gee,  Port(<?)gee,  Port(z/)gee,  Port(y)gee,  Porteg(/?)ee  (as  in  Charles  Dickens’s 
novel  Little  Dorrii),  and  Portag(/?)ee.  And  to  form  the  plural  of  this  colloquial 
singular  all  that  was  necessary,  naturally,  was  the  addition  of  the  final  “s.” 
What  is  important  to  note  is  that  there  is  no  evidence  to  indicate  that  the 
word  was  first  coined  as  a pejorative  term,  one  meant  to  slur  or  insult  natives 
of  Portugal.  In  fact,  its  use  in  stories  and  essays  throughout  the  centuries  is 
descriptively  neutral  at  least  as  often  as  it  is  pejorative.  Of  pertinence  here  is 
the  following  paragraph,  published  in  1910: 

“Portuguese”  is  one  of  those  words  which  have  been  a constant  pitfall  to  our 

English  tendency  toward  false  singulars  and  plurals,  says  the  London  Chronicle. 

To  the  sailor  man  one  Portuguese  is  inevitably  a “Portugee,”  just  as  one  Chinese 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


348 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


individual  is  a “Chinee.”  And  before  the  end  ot  the  seventeenth  century  our  fore- 
fathers seem  to  have  been  unable  to  speak  of  several  Portuguese  at  once  other  than 
as  “Portugeses”  or  “Portuguezes.”  Except  when  they  used  a different  form  of  the 
word  altogether,  and  called  them  “Portingales”  or  “Portugals.”  It  is  rather  a pity 
that  “Portingale”  has  not  survived  so  that  neither  a single  nor  plural  Portuguese 
should  worry  the  English.^ 

“Portingale”  (with  or  without  the  “e”  at  the  end)  has  a long  English  life. 
“Old  Robin  ol  Portingale”  is  the  sad  story  of  an  old  man  who  takes  a young 
wife.  It  survives  as  a child  ballad.  Chaucer,  in  the  fourteenth  century,  knew  the 
country  at  the  western  end  of  the  Iberian  peninsula  as  “Portyngale.”  Impressed 
by  the  “intrepid  Portingals  who  had  sailed  with  Ferdinand  Magelhaens”  and 
who  “had  brought  back  strange  tales  of  Patagonia  and  the  inhabitants  of  those 
storm  latitudes,”  Shakespeare  may  have  conceived  of  his  Prospero  ( The  Tempest) 
as  “a  Portingale  Merchant.”^  It  was  recalled  that  well  before  the  Pilgrims  landed 
in  Massachusetts  “Portingals” — Portuguese  fishing  vessels — visited  the  Isles  of 
Shoals  off  the  coast  of  what  is  now  called  Maine.^  By  1824,  however,  when 
“Portingale”  shows  up  in  his  poem  Don  Juan  (xvi,  I4),  Lord  Byron’s  use  of  the 
word  can  be  described  only  as  quaint  or  antiquarian,  although  articles  about  the 
Elizabethan  Age  continued  to  quote  Holinshed,  the  sixteenth-century  chroni- 
cler on  “delicates  ‘wherein  the  sweet  hand  of  the  sea-faring  Portingale  is  not 
wanting.’”^  Rare  exceptions  were  Dorothea  L.  Ramsbottom,  who,  in  letters  to 
The  Albion  in  the  1820s  and  30s,  insisted,  somewhat  anachronistically,  on  refer- 
ring to  Portugal  as  “Portingal.”*^  Bravely  quixotic,  then,  is  the  only  way  one  can 
describe  the  effort  in  1981  to  resurrect  the  term  by  the  Fall  River-born  poet, 
Thomas  J.  Braga,  who  chose  to  call  his  first,  saudoso  book  of  poems,  Portingales J 
The  subject  of  this  article  is  not  “Portingale,”  however,  but  “Portugee,”  a term 
with  shadowy  beginnings  and,  as  we  have  seen,  various  spellings.^  One  can  only 
speculate  that,  at  least  at  first,  “Portugee”  was  based  on  a misunderstanding  of  the 
term  Portuguese.  In  the  Portuguese  language  “Portugueses”  is  the  plural  for  “Por- 
tugues”;  in  English,  however,  the  term  “Portuguese”  serves  as  both  singular  and 
plural,  though  there  is  evidence  that  the  Portuguese  originals  were,  rather  awk- 
wardly, translated  directly  into  English.  In  1708  the  translator  of  Bartholomeu 
Leonardo  de  Argensola’s  History  of  the  Discovery  and  Conquest  oftheMolucco  and 
Philippine  Islands  Y2\\2im\y,  if  clumsily,  referred  to  the  “Portugueses.” 

What  seems  to  have  happened,  however,  as  I have  already  indicated,  is  that 
with  the  term  “Portuguese”  (understood  as  plural,  ending  In  “s”)  came  “Portugee” 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  349 

as  a popular  form  of  the  singular,  with,  eventually,  “Portugees”  becoming  a plu- 
ral. As  the  Oxford  English  Dictionary  explains,  “Portagee”  represents  “a  spurious 
‘singular’  form  of ‘Portuguese’”  (adjective  and  noun),  “this  being  regarded  as  a 
plural.”  In  due  course,  however,  its  common,  pejorative  function — both  as  sin- 
gular and  plural — ^was  to  express  disdain  for  the  Portuguese. 

“I  read  that  novel — The  Portygee — and  there  wasn’t  one  Portuguese  native 
or  Portuguese  descendant  in  the  whole  book,”  a colleague  once  complained. 
Published  in  1920,  The  Portygee  sx2iS  the  work  of  Joseph  C.  Lincoln  (1870- 
1944),  a prolific  writer  of  fiction  with  a Cape  Cod  setting.  What  my  colleague 
had  missed  then,  evidently  (but  was  clearly  implied  in  the  novel),  was  that 
Lincoln’s  choice  of  title  was  based  on  the  then  common  usage  among  Cape 
Cod  sea  captains  of  the  term  “Portygees”  to  refer  to  all  foreigners.  Since  for 
Lincoln  the  term  was  generic,  as  he  indicates  in  the  dust-jacket  blurb,  he 
could  use  it  precisely  without  worrying  about  its  ultimate  derivation.  As  a 
generic  term  for  “foreigner,”  moreover,  Portygee  was  even  broader  in  coverage 
than  the  term  Dago,  which  several  decades  ago  referred  commonly  not  only 
to  Italians  but  to  other  southern  Europeans  as  well,  particularly  the  Spanish 
and  Portuguese.^  It  was  “a  crowd  of ‘Dagos’”  that  English  visitors  to  Madeira 
encountered  when  they  went  ashore,  according  to  an  English  ship’s  chaplain 
in  1872.’°  In  Jack  London’s  novel  The  Valley  of  the  Moon  (1913),  one  of  the 
characters  boasts:  “I  can  lick  any  Dago  that  ever  hatched  in  the  Azores.”” 

And  in  W.  H.  Macy’s  “Leaves  from  the  Arethusa’s  Log”  (1868),  the  terms 
Portuguese  and  Dago  are  used  interchangeably,  the  latter  mainly  in  the  dia- 
logue.” Certainly  a high  point  in  the  use  of  the  term  came  when  in  the  1920s 
the  noted  American  writer  Malcolm  Cowley  referred  honorifically  to  the  sac- 
rificed Italian  anarchists,  Sacco  and  Vanzetti,  as  “dago  Christs.”” 

It  is  clear  that,  like  the  word  “Dago,”  “Portugee”  often  lost  its  denotative 
specificity  as  a term  employed  exclusively  for  the  Portuguese.  Thus,  at  times, 
“Portugee”  came  to  be  used  to  refer  to  any  foreigner  or  outsider  subject  to 
suspicion,  derision,  disdain,  and  inferior  status  precisely  because  of  his  “out- 
siderness.”  It  was  not  only  the  word  “Portugee”  that  was  used  to  “put  down 
the  Portuguese,”  however.  “Dagos”  was  also  so  employed.  One  observer,  writ- 
ing in  the  Southern  Literary  Messenger  m 1852,  notes: 

Monuments  of  Portuguese  glory  stand  prominently  on  almost  every  chart  or  map 
of  any  portion  of  the  southern  hemisphere,  in  the  Portuguese  names  borne  by 
islands,  capes,  coasts,  towns  or  cities;  but  neither  these  names,  nor  those  of  the 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


350 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Albuquerques,  ot  Vasco  de  Gama,  who  led  the  way  round  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope; 
of  Magellan,  whose  starry  clouds  attract  the  gaze  of  the  southern  voyager,  whose  ves- 
sel  was  the  first  to  circumnavigate  the  earth;  nor  Os  Lusiadas,  the  epic  of  Camoens; 
nor  the  poesias  of  Antonio  Ferreira  have  been  enough  to  secure  respectful  consider- 
ation for  the  Portuguese  by  Anglo-Saxons  of  the  present  day.  Whether  in  Europe, 
Africa,  India,  China,  or  Brazil,  members  of  the  mass  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  race,  when 
visiting  Portuguese  settlements,  speak  of  the  inhabitants  among  themselves  under 
the  name  of  Daygoes,  “Diogos”  that  is — ^Jimmies,  somewhat  contemptuously  used, 
as  the  epithet  “Yankee,”  or  “Jonathan,”  was  once  freely  applied  to  all  Americans  by 
the  English,  the  term  Yankee  is  not  now  very  frequently  employed  in  that  sense. 

More  commonly,  however,  “Dago”  was  used  to  include  the  members  of 
several  different  ethnic  groups.  In  Forest  and  Stream  in  1894,  for  instance,  we 
read:  “The  occupants  this  morning  [on  the  wharf  in  Biloxi]  were  a couple  of 
dagos,  as  all  Italians,  Sicilians,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  and  Austrians  are  indis- 
criminately called  hereabouts,  who  were  dozing  in  the  sunshine. In  Los 
Angeles  in  1908,  we  read  of  complaints  of  “the  market  seiners,  mostly  Por- 
tuguese and  other  ‘Dagoes,’”  who  “have  made  sad  havoc  with  the  alongshore 
fishing  by  destroying  the  young  of  corbina,  yellowflns,  croakers  and  other 
breaker-loving  varieties  wholesale.” 

It  was  with  this  more  generalized  meaning,  possibly,  that  Mark  Twain 
employed  the  term  in  naming  two  characters  in  minor  works  “Portugee  Joe” 
(“American  Claimant”)  and  “The  Portygee”  (“My  Debut  as  a Literary  Per- 
son”). It  is  unlikely,  however,  that  it  is  with  this  broader  reference  that  the 
servant  Abel  Stebbins  employs  the  term  in  Oliver  Wendell  FJolmes’s  novel 
Elsie  Venner  (1861)  when  he  voices  suspicion,  “I  can’t  help  mistrustin’  them 
Portagee-lookin’  fellahs. The  Mormon  prophet  Joseph  Smith  employs  the 
term  “Portugee”  as  a pejorative  in  a letter  from  Illinois,  where  Portuguese 
from  Madeira  had  settled. When  the  novelist  FJenry  James  employs  a vari- 
ant of  the  term  in  The  Ambassadors  (1903),  moreover,  there  can  be  no  mis- 
take. “I  think  I make  out  a ‘Portagee,’”  one  of  his  characters  says,  referring, 
seemingly  and  rather  casually,  not  simply  to  a native  of  Portugal  but,  prob- 
ably, to  a Sephardic  Jew.^® 

In  addition  to  the  examples  from  Mark  Twain  and  Holmes,  American 
writing  offers  a wealth  of  evidence  of  the  presence  of  the  term  “Portugee”  in 
the  culture.  In  essays  and  stories  there  are  characters  whose  identity  carries 
with  it  the  nickname — “Portegee  John,”  “Portugee  Jake,”  “Portugee  Frank,” 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  351 

“Joe,  the  Portugee,”  “Portugee  Joe,”  “Portugee  Manuel,”  “John  the  Portugee,” 
or  “Peter  Portugee. A sailor  out  of  Saybrook,  Connecticut,  one  who  has 
seen  Portugal,  might  be  called  “Portagee  Jack”;  and  in  Fort  Lee,  on  the  New 
Jersey  side  of  the  Hudson  River,  there  was  a legend,  with  the  ruins  of  a house 
to  lend  it  credence,  about  one  “Moll  Portagee”  (or  “Portuguese  Moll”).^^ 

And,  of  course,  there  was  the  western  territory’s  John  “Portugee”  Phillips — an 
Azorean  immigrant  born  on  the  island  of  Pico — who  became  famous  for  hav- 
ing made  the  long  and  dangerous  “ride  to  Fort  Laramie”  to  report  on  “the  Fet- 
terman  disaster”  perpetrated  by  warring  Indians  in  1866.^^  That  “Portugee” 
may  have  been  the  accepted  term  to  refer  to  the  Portuguese  in  Wyoming  is 
suggested  in  the  statement,  made  in  1918  in  the  Wyoming  State  Tribune 
the  “sardines  of  the  Portugee”  are  packed  in  tin-plate  “made  in  America. 

Other  figures  were  known  only  as  “Portugee,”  constituting,  thereby,  a 
type,  in  fiction,  essay,  or  news  account,  one  not  calling  for  further  identi- 
fication by  given  or  family  name.  In  Savannah,  Georgia,  in  1781,  there  was 
a slave  named,  simply,  “Portagee. It  was  “an  unfortunate  Portugee”  who 
stayed  behind  at  St.  Urbes,  reported  an  American  sea  captain  in  1811.^*^  One 
Brazilian  coffee-planter  was  described  as  a “greasy  Portugee.  Sometimes  a 
seaman  was  worse  than  a “Portugee” — he  was  a coward — or  sometimes  it  was 
the  “Portugee”  who  was  the  coward  or  he  was  a thieving,  murderous  villain; 
at  other  times  he  was  merely  an  “unprincipled”  being,  “a  Loafer,”  a “wild” 
one,  or  an  incompetent.^^  Of  the  last  named,  consider  the  views  of  the  satis- 
fied housewife  living  in  “Blank  Falls,  Massachusetts,”  whose  account  of  her 
“Portugee”  female  help  deserves  quoting  at  some  length: 

I have  tried  having  help  and  tried  doing  my  own  work,  and  have  decided  that 
it  is  cheaper  to  have  help.  I get  a “green  Portugee”  (as  we  call  them)  girl  for  two 
dollars  a week.  That  is  $104  a year.  That  sounds  cheap  to  some  that  pay  three  or 
four  dollars  a week  to  help,  but  the  patience  that  is  needed  to  get  on  with  these 
green  girls  can’t  be  calculated  In  dollars  and  cents.  None  of  them  know  anything 
about  cooking,  most  of  them  never  saw  a stove,  and  I have  had  some  who  had 
never  seen  stairs,  and  would  only  go  up  and  down  them  on  their  hands  and  knees. 

Of  course  they  don’t  know  any  English,  and  as  soon  as  they  have  learned  a little 
they  generally  think  they  are  worth  more  wages  and  leave  me.  I do  almost  all 
my  own  cooking,  but  the  “Portugees”  are  good  at  washing  and  ironing,  first-rate 
scrubbers,  and  like  to  work  in  the  garden,  so  that,  having  all  the  heavy  work 
done,  I can  give  my  time  to  sewing 1 do  like  my  house  to  look  well,  and  to 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


352 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


keep  things  up,  so  every  year  I allow  $35  for  repairs.  One  year  the  money  will  go 
mostly  for  a new  carpet  for  the  sitting-room,  and  the  next  year  for  something  else. 

It  always  all  goes,  for  the  “Portugees”  are  great  smashers. 

Besides  being  ignorant,  the  “Portugee”  was  also  superstitious.^®  But  occa- 
sionally, a “Portugee”  was  capable  of  being  helpful,  even  if  the  captain  of 
“a  Portugee  whaler”  was  guilty  of  “a  big  Portugee  swear.”^^  Or  a “Portugee” 
might  act  out  of  loyalty  or  heroism;  one  had  manned  a lighthouse  under 
extremely  dangerous  conditions,  for  example.^^  At  times  a “Portugee”  might 
even  warrant  consideration  as  just  “a  real  good  feller.”^^  “Portugees”  might 
even  be  praised  and  admired  for  their  canniness,  as  were  the  Azoreans  who, 
making  the  best  of  their  indentured  service  in  Hawaii,  left  for  the  city  when 
their  contracts  were  up,  or  he  might  be  valued  for  his  skill  and  dependability 
as  a farmer  or  as  a cook  aboard  ship.^"^  A “Portugee”  might  come  from  many 
different  places:  the  island  of  Brava  (as  he  does  in  Herman  Melville’s  sketch 
about  the  Capeverdean  presence  in  American  whaling)  or  Jamaica,  Fayal  or, 
more  generally,  the  so-called  Western  Islands. 

It  was  rather  late  in  the  “Portugee”  naming-game  when  John  Steinbeck 
put  forth  his  morally  deficient  “Portagee  Joe”  in  Tortilla  Flat  (1935) — a 
characterization  that  enabled  the  actor  Spencer  Tracy,  who  had  learned  the 
term  “Portugee”  for  his  role  as  a Gloucester  fisherman  in  Captains  Courageous 
(1937),  the  film  based  on  Rudyard  Kipling’s  1897  novel,  to  bring  it  to  perfec- 
tion in  the  movie  version  of  Steinbeck’s  novel  in  1942.  For  what  it’s  worth,  let 
me  throw  in  something  from  the  reviews  of  three  other  movies.  In  Primrose 
Path  (1940),  Ginger  Rogers  is  faced  with  “‘Portugee’  rivals  for  the  coveted 
attention  of  Joel  McGrea”;  in  Deep  Waters  (1948),  Caesar  Romero  is  rather 
“silly”  as  “a  light-hearted  Portugee  fisherman”;  and  in  The  World  in  His  Arms 
(1973),  Anthony  Quinn  plays  a character  “called  ‘Portugee,’”  who  smiles  a lot 
and  says  things  like  “‘Heh,  Heh,  Heh,  some  day  I keel  you,  Boston  Man.’”^® 
The  term  “Portugee”  also  appears  as  a modifier  in  ethnic  references — 
not  always  pejoratively.  The  “Portuguese-man-of-war” — “any  of  several  large 
marine  organisms,  having  long,  stinging-tentacles  hanging  down  from  a 
bladderlike  float” — finds  itself  referred  to  as  “Portigee  men-of-war”;  further,  a 
magazine  article  in  1879  (“Bush-Life  in  Queensland”)  gushes,  “How  charm- 
ing to  watch  the  minute  ‘Portugee  men-o’-war,’  each  little  bark  cruising  on 
its  own  account,  and  commissioned  in  the  admiralty  court  of  nature,  in  the 
name  of  nature’s  God!”^^  More  amusing  is  the  version  of  the  expression  “a  la 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


353 


I. 

r 

I Portugaise”  that  appears  in  an  advertisement  in  the  New  York  Times  in  1854 

I touting  a book  called  Forecastle  Yarns.  One  chapter  is  called  “A  Portuge  Break- 

fast.”^^ In  the  1840s  one  “Dr.  A.  M.  Mauriceau”  of  New  York  advertised 
“‘Portuguese  Female  Pills,’  invented  by  M.  Desomeaux,  M.D.,  of  Lisbon, 
j-  Portugal,  which  never  fail  in  effecting  a cure  in  all  cases  of  irregularities,  stop- 
pages, or  retention  of  the  menses. 

There  are,  of  course,  many  less  neutral  or  poetic  uses  of  “Portugee”  (or 
“Portuguese”).  A “Portuguese  parliament,”  according  to  sailors,  is  a gather- 
I ing  where  everyone  talks  but  nobody  listens. Seamen  defined  a “Portugee 
devil”  as  someone  “when  good,  too  good.”"^^  When  a person  is  confused  and 
doesn’t  know  where  to  begin  telling  his  story,  he  is  said  to  be  in  a “Portu- 
guese pigknot.”^^^  A “Portagee  gate”  is  a lazy  man’s  version  of  a gate — a rope 
thrown  over  a stake.'^^  “Portugee  time,”  translated  from  Portuguese  a hora 
portuguesa,  singles  out  the  national  inclination — it  is  believed — for  arriving 
late  for  appointments,  solemn  occasions,  etc.  “Portugee  colonial”  (or  “Immi- 
grant Chic”)  refers  to  poorly-made  “modern”  furniture  foisted  on  the  unsus- 
pecting recent  immigrant;  and  a goat  is  “a  Portugee  lawnmower.”  “Portagee 
overdrive”  is  the  ''gear”  used  when  coasting  downhill  in  neutral  to  save  fuel.  In 
California  “Portugee  lift”  is  a longshoreman’s  way  of  criticizing  anyone  who 
avoids  carrying  his  share  of  the  load."^"^ 

The  social  import  of  such  combinations  has  not  been  gauged.  Yet  while 
“the  derisive  adjective,  either  as  a term  or  pattern  is  not  important,”  it  has  been 
noted  that,  when  “placed  within  a cultural  context,”  it  ‘'may  indicate  qualita- 
tively, long-held  prejudices  and  cultural  antagonisms.”"^^  This  is  manifestly  so, 
for  example,  in  the  case  of  the  “Portagee  lift.”  Heard  on  San  Francisco  docks 
for  as  long  as  anyone  could  remember,  the  term  popped  up  in  1 977  in  a TV 
documentary  about  Eric  Hoffer,  a well-known  writer  at  the  time,  who  used 
the  expression  with  no  sense  of  its  prejudicial  nature. The  “Portugee”  long- 
shoreman appears  in  references  by  the  comic  Johnny  Carson,  who  pretended 
to  insult  a person  in  his  audience  by  describing  him  as  having  seen  “his  mother 
in  a stag  movie  with  five  Portuguese  longshoremen”  (“Tonight  Show”  22  May 
1979).  Dick  Martin  told  a similar  joke  involving  an  Aunt  Martha  who  was 
delighted  to  find  herself  the  only  female  shipwrecked  with  a boatload  of  Por- 
tuguese sailors  (“Tim  Conway  Show”  19  April  1980).  Heading  Steve  Martin’s 
list  of  things  to  be  thankful  for  on  the  eve  of  Thanksgiving  Day  in  1981  is  “the 
Atlantic  Ocean  because  without  it  a lot  of  Portuguese  would  be  walking  into 
my  living  room”  (“My  Best  Show  Ever”  25  November  1981).  Here  the  joke  also 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


354 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


reflects  the  xenophobic  feelings  about  immigration  overall.  On  another  occa- 
sion Martin  presented  as  one  of  the  “Bizarre  Oddities  of  the  World”  a bit  about 
the  Portuguese  dentist.  Standing  before  two  persons  jumping  up  and  down  on 
a trampoline  and  speaking  into  a hand  mike  and  wearing  a trench  coat,  Martin 
reports:  “B  you  are  thinking  of  going  to  Portugal  this  year,  be  sure  to  have  your 
cavities  filled  because  here  in  Portugal  they  still  practice  the  art  of  trampoline 
dentistry”  (“Comedy  Is  Not  Pretty”  23  January  1982). 

Then  there  is  the  “Portugee  joke.”  Let  us  end  this  survey,  not  with  a bang 
but  a few  groans. 

(1)  There  is  a five-dollar  bill  on  the  ground.  Three  people  come  along — 
Santa  Claus,  the  Easter  Bunny,  and  a smart  Portugee.  Who,  of  the  three, 
will  get  to  it  first? — Nobody.  There  is  no  Santa  Claus,  there  is  no  Easter 
Bunny,  and  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a smart  Portugee. 

(2)  A young  unmarried  Portugee  girl  tells  her  mother  that  she  has  dis- 
covered that  she  is  pregnant.  Her  mother,  concerned,  asks  hopefully  (if 
desperately),  “But  are  you  sure  the  baby’s  yours?” 

(3)  Want  to  sink  a Portugee  ship?  Put  it  in  water. 

(4)  Portugal  is  the  only  country  in  the  world  where  a Portugee’s  mistress 
is  uglier  than  his  wife. 

(5)  Hear  about  the  new  Portugee  bank?  You  give  them  a toaster  and  they 
give  you  $500. 

(6)  “Put  two  Portygees  on  a rock  in  the  ocean  and  they’ll  be  rich  in  ten 
days.  How?  By  stealing  from  each  other. 

(7)  “A  Portuguese  poet  asks:  ‘How  do  I love  thee?’  and  concludes,  in  his 
last  line,  ‘I  shall  love  thee  better  after  death.’  He  must  have  seen  her  in  a 
bathing  suit.”"^^ 

(8)  What  is  the  longest  bridge  in  the  world?  The  Braga  Bridge — it  links  Por- 
tugal to  the  U.  S.  of  A.  That  same  slippery  span  over  the  Taunton  River  con- 
necting Somerset  with  Fall  River  is  known  to  truckers  as  the  “Portugee  slide.” 

Oddly,  even  when  the  intention  has  been  to  defend  the  Portuguese  in 
America  something  will  go  awry.  Consider  the  following  paragraph  culled 
from  the  Boston  Transcript 'm  1910: 

“Three  men  and  a Portagee”  was  the  description  of  his  schooners  crew  by  an  old 
Cape  Cod  “cap’n,”  the  implication  being  that  the  “Portagee”  was  somewhat  less 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  355 

than  a full  man.  This  provincial  ignorance  and  conceit,  however,  have  been  pretty 
well  worked  out  of  the  Cape  Cod  Yankees  by  this  time.  They  now  see  all  about 
them  the  best,  it  might  almost  be  said  the  only,  farming  worthy  of  the  name,  as 
fitted  to  the  peculiar  situation — namely,  the  intensive  cultivation  of  small  fruits 
and  early  vegetables — done  by  the  skilled  and  industrious  Portuguese,  although 
the  “Bravos”  may  first  have  arrived  on  the  New  England  coast  as  sailors  and  fish- 
ermen. In  many  of  the  old  towns  of  the  cape,  and,  indeed,  all  down  along  the 
coast  to  the  farthest  “harbors”  of  Maine,  the  best  places  in  the  town,  and  in  some 
instances  the  larger  part  of  the  land,  are  now  the  proud  and  prospering  possessions 
of  the  little  dark  people.  Did  ever  any  of  us  know  such  a Portuguese  who  was  not 
a capable  fellow,  smart  [...],  but  smart  in  figure — if  a woman,  what  the  French 
mean  by  “chic” — neat  in  working  clothes,  even  and  neat  handed  in  work,  quick 
to  apprehend  and  industrious  and  faithful  in  sticking  to  and  finishing  up  a job?"^^ 

There’s  little  need  to  italicize  for  emphasis  the  vestige  of  the  “Portagee”  epithet 
in  the  well-meaning  description  of  the  Portuguese  as  these  “little  dark  people.” 

Perhaps  the  best  way  to  conclude  this  survey  of  the  term  “Portugee”  and 
its  various  appearances  is  with  a personal  anecdote.  Once  while  my  cousin 
Manny  Cabral  was  recovering  from  heart  surgery,  he  was  visited  in  the  hos- 
pital by  two  of  his  non-Portuguese  golfing  buddies.  I was  witness  to  this 
exchange.  As  his  friends  were  taking  their  leave,  one  of  them  said;  “Well,  we 
miss  you  out  there  on  the  golf  course;  so  you  better  get  better  fast,  Portu- 
gee.” To  which  Manny  replied,  amiably  but  pretending  to  take  the  high  road, 

“Thanks;  but  to  you — I am  Mr.  Portugee.” 


Notes 

General  editor’s  note.  Unless  otherwise  noted,  the  reference  “Print”  is  implicit  in  all  bib- 
liographical items. 

' “L’Hermite  en  Italie.”  Museum  of  Foreign  Literature,  Science,  and  Art  1 Apr.  1824  [4j:  308. 
A similar  bit  of  doggerel  is  explained  as  “the  comfortable  lie” — with  increased  numbers — that 
“one  Englishman,  by  reason  simply  of  being  an  Englishman,  was  the  equal  of  two  French- 
men, three  Spaniards,  or  five  Portugee”  (Hamilton  Drummond,  “How  Martin  Hughes  found 
Manoa-land,”  English  Illustrated  Magazine ]\x\y  1899  [190]:  323).  See  also:  “Pungent  Salts,”  All 
Year  Round!  Nov.  1868  [20]:  526;  “Napoleonic  Caricatures,”  New  York  Times  17  Aug.  1884:  9; 
“Some  Old  British  Ballads,”  Chambers's  Journal  A\x^.  1888  [5]:  504;  and  “Our  Naval  Increase,” 
Chambers’s  Journal  Mzy  1896  [13]:  328. 

^ “Portuguese  in  English,”  Dallas  Morning  News  13  Dec.  1910:  11. 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


356 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


^ “Stories  of  Adventure — Shakespeare,”  New  York  Times  1 1 Nov.  1894:  22;  M.  D.  Conway, 
quoted  in  The  Critic  Ti  Apr.  1893  [17]:  531. 

^ John  Scribner  Jenness,  “The  Isles  of  Shoals,”  The  Friendly  Oct.  1873  [47]:  74;  Jenness, 
The  Isles  of  Shoals,  Cambridge:  Hurd  and  Houghton,  1873:  12. 

“The  England  of  Elizabeth”  [from  the  Edinburgh  Review],  LittelTs  Living  Age  [5  th  series] 
8 Sept.  1877  [19]:  585;  Charles  Dudley  Warner,  “The  People  for  Whom  Shakespeare  Wrote,” 
Atlantic  Monthly  ]\xnt  1879  [43]:  738;  “Strange  Food”  [from  the  Cornhill  Magazine],  LitteWs 
Living  Age  [5th  series]  17  Aug.  1889  [67]:  432.  See  also  the  poem:  “Mr.  Barney  Maguire’s  His- 
tory of  the  Coronation,”  The  Albion  15  Sept.  1838  [6]:  296. 

^ Dorothea  L.  Ramsbottom,  “Letter  from  Mrs.  Ramsbottom,”  The  Albion  30  Aug.  1 828 
[7]:  92;  6 Dec.  1828  [7]:  205;  and  10  Dec.  1831  [10]:  215. 

^ Thomas  J.  Braga,  Portingales,  Providence,  Rl:  Gavea-Brown,  1981.  See  also:  Alison 
Macleod,  The  Portingale,  London:  Hodder  and  Stoughton,  1976. 

® Except  in  direct  quotations  I shall  use  “Portugee”  throughout.  Different  plays  on  the  word 
“Portuguese”  include  “Pork  Chops,”  “Porkacheese,”  “Pork  & Cheese,”  and  “Portugoose.”  The 
last  of  these  terms  has  a history  going  back  to  the  nineteenth  century  at  least.  The  following 
exchange  is  reported  in  the  Chicago  Tribune  in  the  nineteenth  century: 

“Would  you  say  ‘Portugee’  if  you  wanted  to  speak  of  one  inhabitant  of  Portugal?”  asked  the 
golf  editor,  looking  up  from  his  work.  “You  wouldn’t  call  one  a Portuguese,  would  you?” 
“Of  course  not,”  said  the  tiddledewinks  editor.  “You’d  call  him  a Portugoose.”  (“Another 
Question  Settled,”  Philadelphia  Inquirer  2G  Psrpx.  1896  [134]:  35) 

“Porta-goose”  and  “Portageese”  were  favored  terms  of  derision  employed  liberally  by  the 
American  poet  Ezra  Pound;  lor  a list  of  examples  taken  from  Pound’s  Cantos  see:  Norwood 
Andrews  Jr.,  The  Case  Against  Camoes,  New  York:  Peter  Lang,  1988:  53.  “Portugoose”  also 
appears  in  A.  A.  Roback’s  A Dictionary  of  International  Slurs,  Cambridge,  Mass:  Sci-Art  Pub- 
lishers, 1944:  59;  reissued  in  lacsimile  by  Maledicta  Press,  Waukesha,  Wisconsin,  in  1979. 
Common,  too,  is  “Pork  Chops.”  Which  brings  us  to  Frank  “Porky”  Vieira,  a legendary  athlete 
and  long-time  baseball  coach  at  the  Univeristy  of  New  Haven,  in  Connecticut,  who  explains 
that  his  enduring  nickname  evolved  out  of  “Portugee,”  his  original  nickname.  Portuguese 
water-dogs,  lately  receiving  general  attention  due  to  the  Obamas’  interest  in  them  as  pets, 
are  known  as  “Porties” — a nickname  that  is  not  hostile  but  skirts  dangerously  close,  as  I hear 
it,  to  “Portugees.” 

^ Roback’s  opinion  that  “Dago”  was  “originally  a nickname  for  Spaniards  only,  deriving 
from  Diego  (James)”  {Slurs  26)  is  supported  by  information  from  the  New  Orleans  Times  Pica- 
yune in  1896:  “The  word  ‘Dago,’  now  commonly  applied  to  the  Italians  all  over  the  coun- 
try, came  originally  from  Louisiana,  where  it  at  first  referred  only  to  people  of  Spanish  origin, 
but  was  later  applied  to  Italians  and  Portuguese  as  well.  The  word  is  a corruption  of  ‘Diego,’ 
(James,)  which  is  a common  Spanish  name,  San  Diego  being  the  patron  saint  of  the  Spaniards” 
(“Origin  of  Popular  Phrases,”  Times  Picayune  2A  Feb.  1896:  2). 

“Leaves  from  a Chaplain’s  Log,”  Zions  Herald 4 Jan.  1872  [49]:  2. 

’’  Jack  London,  The  Valley  of  the  Moon,  New  York:  Macmillan,  1913:  310. 

W.  H.  Macy,  “Leaves  from  the  Arethusa’s  Log,”  Flag  of  Our  Union  4 July  1868:  430.  The 
following  joke  was  culled  from  the  London  journal  Puck 

Little  Tim — Father,  I’m  going  to  take  up  manual  training. 

Murphy — Don’t  ye  dere!  Ye  see  what  happened  to  him,  don’t  ye?  Ye  kin  follow  Emp’ror 
Willyum  or  the  Mike-doo  of  Chiny,  but  Oi’ll  not  have  ye  imitatin’  that  Portygese  dago — 
Manuel.  {Evening  News  [San  Jose,  California]  21  Aug.  1911:  6). 

Quoted  in:  Barry  Werth,  The  Scarlet  Professor,  New  York:  Anchor  Books,  2002:  40. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


357 


“Notes  and  Commentaries,  on  a Voyage  to  China,”  Southern  Literary  Messenger]\Ay  1852 
[18]:  393-94. 

L.  J.  M.  “How  ’Ras  Fools  the  Divers,”  Forest  and  Stream  24  Mar.  1894  [42]:  244.  This 
reminds  me  of  a “Portugee”  riddle  current  some  twenty  or  more  years  ago:  “What  do  you  call  a 
guy  who  sleeps  in  a car?  A ‘car-dosa.’” 

Edw.  L.  Hedderly,  “Southern  California  Fishing,”  Forest  and  Stream  23  May  1908  [70]: 

820. 

Notably,  however,  in  his  first  letter  on  the  Azores  when  the  excursion  ship  Quaker  City 
stopped  there  in  1867,  Mark  Twain  referred  to  “a  Portughee  of  average  intelligence,”  a reference  that, 
when  he  converted  his  travel  letters  into  the  book  The  Innocents  Abroad,  he  changed  to  “a  Portuguese 
of  average  intelligence.”  See:  Traveling  with  the  Innocents  Abroad:  Mark  Twains  Original  Reports  from 
Europe  and  the  Holy  Land,  ed.  Daniel  Motley  McKeithan,  Norman:  U of  Oklahoma  P,  1958:  5,  10. 

Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Elsie  Venner — A Romance  of  Destiny,  Boston:  Houghton  Mifflin, 
1889:  424. 

Joseph  Smith  [Letter  from  Nauvoo,  Illinois],  Deseret  News  [Salt  Lake  City,  Utah]  1 Apr. 
1857  [7]:  4. 

Henry  James,  The  Ambassadors,  ed.  Leon  Edel,  Boston:  Houghton  Mifflin,  1960:  127. 
See  the  OED. 

William  M.  Turner,  “Daisy’s  Mission,”  Overland  Monthly  and  Out  West  Magazine  Dec. 
1873  [11]:  515;  Henry  S.  Brooks,  “The  Crazy  Professor,”  Overland  Monthly  and  Out  West  Maga- 
zine h\x^.  1884  [4]:  130-31,  137;  Ninetta  Lames,  “Staging  in  the  Mendocino  Redwoods,”  Over- 
land Monthly  and  Out  West  Sept.  1892  [20]:  274;  “The  Romance  of  a Post-Office:  The  Story 
of  a Mining  Camp,”  New  York  Times  18  Dec.  1898:  SMI 4;  Luella  Pierce  Churchill,  “Vailima, 
the  Home  of  Stevenson,”  New  York  Times  26  Feb.  1899:  IMS  12;  “A  Professor’s  Holiday,”  New 
York  Times  5 Oct.  1924:  BR8;  Lieut.  Thomas  W.  Symons,  Report  of  an  Examination  of  the  Upper 
Columbia  River  and  the  Territory  in  its  Vicinity  in  September  and  October,  1881,  to  Determine  its 
Navigability,  and  Adaptability  to  Steamboat  Transportation,  Washington:  Government  Printing 
Office,  1882:  1 19;  “A  Roving  Printer”  [J.  D.  Jones],  Life  and  Adventure  in  the  South  Pacific,  New 
York;  Harper  & Bros.,  1861:  34;  “Boiler  Let  Go,”  Grand  Forks  Daily  Herald  14  Sept.  1897  [16]: 
1 ; “Lost  in  the  Jungle,”  All  the  Year  Round  Oct.  1861  [6] : 88;  “The  Log  of  the  Wanderoo,”  London 
Society  Stpi.  1882  [42];  288;  “Up  a Tree,”  All  the  Year  Round ]\Ay  1870  [4]:  130. 

Henry  M.  Lyman,  Hawaiian  Yesterdays:  Chapters  from  a Boys  Life  in  the  Islands  in  the 
Early  Days,  Chicago;  McClurg,  1906:  71-72;  Thomas  Dunn  English,  “Fort  Lee  on  the  Hudson, 
Second  Paper,”  Appletonsfournal  16  Dec.  1871  [6]:  690. 

Hoffman  Birney,  “Round-Up  on  the  Western  Range,”  New  York  Times!  Oct.  1951:  234; 
and  “Marine  List,”  Connecticut  Gazette  ^ Feb.  1792  [29]:  3.  See  also:  A.  M.  Anderson,  Portugee 
Phillips  and  the  Fighting  Sioux,  Chicago:  Wheeler,  1956. 

24  “Yin  Plate  Tariff  Tale,”  Wyoming  State  Tribune  M July  1918:  4. 

“Georgia,”  Royal  Georgia  Gazetted  Feb.  1781  [102]:  2. 

“Extract  from  a Letter  from  an  American  Captain,  at  St.  Urbes,  to  the  editor  of  the  Rep- 
ertory,” Concord  Gazette  Ti  Apr.  1811  [4]:  3. 

K.  and  Hesketh  Prichard,  “The  God  of  the  Lagoon,”  Windsor  Magazine  Dec.  1899  [1 1]:  58. 

Biloxi  Herald  1 5 Oct.  1892  [9]:  3;  Virginia  W.  Johnson,  “A  Palace  of  Cobweb,”  Harper’s 
New  Monthly  Magazine ]u\y  1875  [51]:  270-71,  274;  The  Athelings;  or.  The  Three  Gifis  [from 
Blackwood’s  Magazine],  Living  Age  20  ]\xne  1857  [53]:  730;  “Sketches  in  the  East  Indies — Pulo 
Pantang,”  Harper’s  New  Monthly  Magazine  1855  [11]:  330;  Jones,  Life  and  Adventure-. 
34;  G.  H.  Ballow,  “Monomy,”  Harper’s  New  Monthly  Magazine  ¥ch.  1864  [28]:  309;  A.  D.  H. 
“Some  Incidents  on  a Whaler,”  Forest  and  Stream  29  Mar.  1877  [8]:  110. 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


358 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


i 


Mary  Dash,  “A  New  England  Letter,”  Harper s Bazaar  Au^.  1906  [40]:  756. 

W.  Burt  Foster,  “The  Bo’Suns  Pipe,”  Duluth  News  Tribune  A Dec.  1897  [17]:  6. 

Joseph  M.  Rogers,  “The  Yarn  of  the  Ancient  Mariner,”  Philadelphia  Inquirer  10  Feb. 
1895  [132]:  2. 

Gustav  Kobee,  “Life  in  a Lighthouse  (Minot’s  Ledge),”  Century  Magazine ]zn.  1894  [47]:  369. 

H.  C.  Bunner,  “Crazy  Wife’s  Ship,”  Harper’s  New  Monthly  Magazine  Dec.  1892  [86]: 
1 17;  W.  FI.  Bishop,  “Fish  and  Men  in  the  Maine  Island,”  Harper’s  New  Monthly  Magazine  Stpi. 
1880  [61]:  505. 

Haole,  “Sunshine  and  Shadows  of  Hawaii:  A Bird’s-Eye  View  of  America’s  Blighted  Paradise,” 
New  York  Times  1 8 Feb.  1 906:  SM 1 ; “Sea  Cook  Tries  Mutiny,”  New  York  Times  9 Jan.  1 903:  2. 

Herman  Melville,  “The  ’Gees,”  Harper’s  New  Monthly  Magazine  Nidit.  1856  [70]:  507—9; 
Frank  R.  Stockton,  “Pomona’s  Bridal  Trip,”  Scribner’s  Monthly  Nizv.  1879  [17]:  693;  Sarah  Orne 
Jewett,  “The  Foreigner,”  Aug.  1900  [86]:  1 54;  Thomas  Wentworth  Higginson, 

“The  Haunted  Window,”  Atlantic  Monthly  Apr.  1867  [19]:  434;  Bishop,  “Fish  and  Men”  505. 

“Concerning  Certain  Cinematic  Chat,”  New  York  Times  2A  Mar.  1940:  111;  “Missed  the 
Boat,”  New  York  Times  I'd  July  1948:  12;  Caryl  Rivers,  “I  Fell  in  Love  with  Montgomery  Clift,” 
New  York  Times!  Sept.  1973:  7. 

Lauchlan  Bellingham  Mackinnon,  Atlantic  and  Transatlantic;  Sketches  Afloat  and  Ashore, 
New  York:  Harper,  1852:  222;  “Bush-Life  in  Queensland”  [from  Blackwood’s  Magazine],  Littell’s 
Living  Age  2A  ]zn.  1880  [144]:  219. 

New  York  Times!  June  1854:  5. 

An  example  of  this  advertisement  by  “A.  M.  Mauriceau,  Professor  of  Diseases  of  Women,” 
with  an  office  on  Broadway,  taken  from  the  New  Orleans  Times  Picayune,  reads:  “The  celebrated 
‘Portuguese  Femail  Pills,’  invented  by  M.  Desomeaux,  M.D.,  of  Lisbon,  Portugal,  which  never 
lail  in  eflecting  a cure  in  all  cases  of  irregularities,  stoppages,  or  retention  of  the  menses,  (for 
which  Dr.  A.  M.  Mauriceau  has  the  exclusive  agency  for  this  country,)  can  be  sent  by  mail  to  any 
part  of  the  United  States.  Price  $5  a package — postage  10  cents.  All  letters  must  be  post-paid, 
and  addressed  to  Dr.  A.  M.  Mauriceau,  Box  1224,  Post  Office,  N.  Y.”  (27  April  1847:  3).  See 
also:  Ely  van  der  Warkle,  “The  Detection  of  Criminal  Abortion,”  Journal  of  the  Boston  Historical 
Society  1870:  4-5;  qtd.  by  Malcolm  Potts,  “History  of  Contraception,”  Gynecology  and  Obstetrics, 
ed.  John  W.  Sciarra,  Philadelphia:  Harper  & Row,  1982:  7. 

Roback,  Slurs  59;  Frank  Shay,  A Sailor’s  Treasury,  New  York:  Norton,  1951;  178.  See  the  OED. 

“Steam  on  the  Propontis  and  Hellespont,”  London  Saturday  Journal]2ca.  1840  [3]:  26. 

Roback,  Slurs  59.  He  also  lists  “Portuguese  pumping,”  but  does  not  define  it,  saying  only 
that  it  is  “a  phrase  of  uncertain  but  unquestionably  questionable  meaning,  in  the  opinion  of 
both  Ware  and  Partridge”  (59). 

Charles  Reis  Felix,  Through  a Portagee  Gate,  Dartmouth:  Center  for  Portuguese  Studies 
and  Culture/ University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth,  2004. 

These  last  two  terms  are  listed,  respectively,  by  Hanley  and  Green.  Roberta  Hanley, 
“Truck  Drivers’  Language  in  the  Northwest,”  American  Speech  1961  [36];  273.  Archie  Green, 
“John  Newhaus:  Wobbly  Folklorist,” of  American  Folklore  1960  [73]:  21 1. 

Ed  Cray,  “Ethnic  and  Place  Names  as  Derisive  Adjectives,”  Western  Folklore  ]zn.  1962 
[21]:  34. 

“Eric  Hoffer:  The  Crowded  Life.”  P.B.S.-TV. 

Horace  P.  Beck,  “Folklore  in  Rhode  Island,”  Northeast  Folklore  VzW  1959:  37.  The  basic 
joke  was  told  in  the  nineteenth  century  at  the  expense  of  others — not  the  Portuguese.  (1)  “Two 
Mississippi  River  gamblers  who  began  one  night  with  a dime  each  [. . .]  before  morning  had  won 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


359 


from  each  other  a hundred  dollars  apiece.”  John  Hay,  “Kane  and  Abel,”  Frank  Leslies  Illustrated 
Magazine  22  Apr.  1871:  86.  (2)  In  Irving  Bacheller’s  novel  Eben  Holden:  A Tale  of  the  North 
Country,  there  is  a reference  to  big  talkers  among  the  Yankees  who,  when  alone,  succeed  in  out- 
talking themselves  (Boston;  Lothrop,  1900:  139). 

“Local  Items,”  Chicago  Tribune  G Apt.  1884:  15. 

“Portuguese  Cape  Codders,”  Colorado  Springs  Gazette  25  Dec.  1910:  30. 


George  Monteiro  is  professor  emeritus  of  English  and  of  Portuguese  and  Brazilian 
studies  at  Brown  University.  Among  his  books  and  editions  are  Robert  Frost  & the  New 
England  Renaissance,  The  Correspondence  of  Henry  James  and  Henry  Adams-,  The  Presence  of 
Camoes-,  Stephen  Cranes  Blue  Badge  of  Courage,  The  Presence  of  Pessoa-,  Fernando  Pessoa  and 
Nineteenth-Century  Anglo-American  Literature,  Conversations  with  Elizabeth  Bishop-,  and 
Stephen  Crane:  The  Contemporary  Reviews.  In  press  are  Love  and  Fame  in  Fernando  Pessoa: 
Five  Chapters  and  Elizabeth  Bishop  in  Brazil  and  After:  A Poetic  Career  Transformed. 


GEORGE  MONTEIRO 


'^-  ’ ■ ' '.^1  .(  '<kti\  ' . ' . 

‘ .*  *_•<<}!  vjfi  ,->^r  r,  . ,\*  V .'  I.  I , ■ 


r 


' ■ V$'.'.‘;.W  ' 


Camoes  revisitado  na  visao  mitopoetica  de  Manuel  Alegre 


Pedro  Carlos  Louzada  Fonseca 


Abstract.  This  comparative  study  traces  the  formal  and  substantive 
influence  of  Camoes’s  sonnets  and  some  passages  from  Os  Lustadas 
(1572)  on  Manuel  Alegre’s  Com  que pena  (1992).  Using  the  concepts  of 
dialogism,  intertextuality,  and  mythopoetics,  it  aims  to  demonstrate  that 
contemporary  Portuguese  poetry,  as  exemplified  by  Alegre,  undertakes  a 
formally  and  thematically  revisionist  approach  to  the  classical  Camonian 
model.  In  Alegre’s  work,  this  task  of  reinterpretation  is  directed  at  a 
legitimation  of  his  poetry  through  an  alignment  with  the  literary  value 
represented  by  Camoes  and  with  the  central  themes  of  Portuguese  literary 
and  cultural  history. 


A teoria  literaria  reconhece,  na  gesta9ao  de  um  texto  literario,  a presen^a  de  uma 
relativa  influencia  de  textos  culturais  que  exercem  a sua  motiva^ao  estetica  e 
ideologica  no  texto  produzido  (Kristeva  111).  Esse  procedimento  dialogico  tern 
as  suas  particularidades  e propriedades  especificas  (Bakhtin  85-106).  Uma  delas 
diz  respeito  ao  fato  de  o autor,  pot  meio  dessa  dialogia  intertextual,  poder  se 
distinguir  como  criador  original,  quando  capaz  de  manipular  de  forma  criativa 
o material  utilizado  de  outras  fontes  (Brownlee  and  Stephens  1-19). 

Tendo  por  base  no^oes  desse  tipo,  este  estudo  da  presen^a  de  Camoes  em 
Manuel  Alegre  consiste  num  exame  de  aspectos  formais  e conteudisticos  da 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  25124  (2012);  361-369. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


362  PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 

poetica  camoniana,  que,  submetidos  a um  tratamento  estetico  inovador,  cons- 
rituem  o cerne  do  fazer  poetico  de  Manuel  Alegre.  Essa  especie  de  apropria9ao, 
baseada  na  intertextualidade,  tern  como  resultado  a produ^ao  da  nova  poesia 
de  Alegre  por  meio  da  reinterpreta^ao  da  antiga  poesia  de  Camoes  (Brownlee 
109-27).  Alem  de  preservar  o valor  do  seu  modelo,  do  seu  “proprio  poetico,” 
(Castro  5-23,  69-77,  129-166)  a poesia  de  Alegre  reinterpreta-o  com  origi- 
nalissima  recriatividade,  tornando-o  atual  na  medida  em  que  reavalia  e recons- 
troi  as  suas  ideias  e sentimentos  originals  (Brownlee  109-27).  E nesse  sentido 
que  talvez  possam  ser  entendidas  as  palavras  de  Borges  ao  comentar  que  “cada 
escritor  crea  a sus  precursores”  (128). 

Essa  releitura  de  Alegre  consiste  numa  verdadeira  reatualiza9ao  temporal 
de  Camoes,  na  medida  em  que  resgata  a sua  poesia  a propriedade  de  inspirar 
e de  dar  forma  e modo  de  ser  a atual  visao  do  poetico  expressa  por  Alegre. 
Apesar  de  situados  em  diferentes  momentos  historico-culturais,  as  condi9oes 
dos  respectivos  tempos  vividos  pelos  dois  poetas  apresentam  problematicas 
analogas,  tornando-se  a visao  e a imagem  camonianas  motivo  para  Alegre 
redimensionar,  em  moldes  transfigurados,  a visao  camoniana  na  sua  propria. 
Alegre  professa  essa  correspondencia  com  um  pacto  de  fidelidade  a Camoes, 
expondo,  no  poema  “Criptografia”  do  seu  livro  Com  que  pena  (1992),  o seu 
proposito  inter  e metatextual  de  fazer  a sua  poesia  enquanto  “leitura-cons- 
tru9ao”  (Todorov  420),  de  forma  transubstanciada,  do  seu  modelo  elegido, 
sugerindo  mesmo  uma  disposi9ao  de  mistifica9ao  psicografista: 

Da  rosacea  de  enxofre  nasce  o pacto 
da  magia  da  formula  do  rito 
vai-se  a ver  e Camoes  e o proprio  acto 
de  passar  a poema  o nunca  dito. 


Tern  cornos  que  nao  vem  no  retrato 
tern  pes-de-cabra  e o fogo  do  maldito 
e quanto  mais  disperso  mais  intacto 
val-se  a ver  ele  dita  e eu  passo  a escrito. 


Intertexto  intervida  intersemantica 
alquimia  alquimia  escrita  quantica 
vai-se  a ver  e Camoes  e a voz  que  dita. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


363 


E ja  nao  sei  se  escrevo  ou  se  sou  escrito 

e a magia  o fogo  o signo 

cripto- 

grafia  de  uma  escrita  em  outra  escrita.  (Alegre  49) 

A influencia  e o reaproveitamento  do  modelo  camoniano  na  literatura 
portuguesa  e uma  realidade  tradicional,  bastando  aqui  apontar  como  razao 
precfpua  disso  o fato  de  Camoes  ter  escrito  numa  epoca,  de  forma  inigualavel, 
propicia  para  definir  as  bases  fundadoras  do  que  veio  a se  conhecer,  de  forma 
peculiar,  como  sentimento  lirico  e espirito  epico  da  indole  racica  portuguesa. 
Haja  vista  disso  o exemplo  de  Pessoa,  o super-Camoes  de  Mensagem  (1934), 
obra  pretendida  como  uma  replica  lirica  a epica  de  Os  Lusiadas  {\‘b72).  Com 
intento  semelhante  ao  de  Pessoa  em  resgatar  valores  eticos  do  glorioso  passado 
portugues  refletido  por  Camoes,  os  poemas  de  Com  que  pena  de  Alegre  apre- 
sentam-se  nos  limites  de  uma  ironica  utopia,  na  medida  em  que  a sua  lirica, 
invocando  o canto  da  autenticidade  historica  lembrada  por  Camoes,  enaltece 
sentimentos  e idealiza^oes  inconformados  com  critica  realidade  do  seu  tempo. 

Colocada  em  destaque  impar  a genial  magnitude  da  revisita9ao  de  Camoes 
por  Pessoa,  Alegre  e um  dos  muitos  poetas  da  modernidade  portuguesa  que, 
cada  um  a seu  modo,  recorreram-se  a ilusao  de  transput  e ultrapassar  as  li^oes 
do  mestre  quinhentista.  Entretanto,  essa  vontade  de  supera^ao  desse  “peso” 
camoniano,  intentada  por  esses  poetas,  esbarra  em  questoes  que  tern  a ver  com 
a forma^ao  dos  chamados  mitos  da  cultura  nacional  (e  Camoes  e um  deles), 
panteonizados,  desde  a tradi^ao,  por  seu  valor  literario  e poetico,  cujo  alcance 
cosmovisivo  e estetico  adquirem  a qualidade  de  valores  intemporais  e universal. 

Manuel  Alegre  e um  poeta  que,  consciente  disso,  faz  a sua  poesia  como  lei- 
tura-constru^ao  colada  em  Camoes,  num  processo  simbiotico  de  remitifica^ao 
do  seu  modelo,  descobrindo  nele  situa^oes  de  alcance  significativo  para  avaliar 
poeticamente  a sua  propria  epoca.  Reinterpretando  a figura  do  poeta  e da  sua 
obra,  Alegre  subintitula  o seu  livro  Com  que  pena  com  a apologetica  dedica- 
toria  “Vinte  poemas  para  Camoes.”  O primeiro  poema  da  coletanea  lembra 
Os  Lusiadas,  invocando  e equivalendo  Camoes  ao  proprio  heroi  dessa  epopeia 
(Vasco  da  Gama),  recordando,  assim,  a invocatio  da  epopda  classica.  Atra- 
ves  deste  processo  metonimico,  Alegre  assume-se,  por  transposi^ao,  como  um 
novo  bardo  ao  feitio  camoniano,  responsavel  pela  continua^ao  do  tradicional 
legado  poetico  e historico  portugues.  Invoca,  para  tanto,  o canto  camoniano  a 


PEDRO  CARLOS  LOUZADA  FONSECA 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 

inspirar-lhe  como  singradura.  Por  meio  dessa  estrategia  retorica,  Alegre,  ao  se 
colocar  como  sujeito  da  enuncia(;ao  de  um  mito,  confere  a si  proprio  conota- 
^oes  mitificantes,  na  medida  em  que  se  torna  provedor  de  um  mito. 

Entretanto,  a mitopoetiza^ao  de  Camoes  por  Alegre  obedece  teoricamente 
a certos  procedimentos  poeticos  e estilisticos.  O primeiro  deles  e o uso  da 
niLisicalidade  e de  imagens  mitificadoras  (Friedrich  17-40).  Outro  recurso  e 
o emprego  de  uma  linguagem  metaforica  de  alta  densidade  simbolica,  que 
conota  uma  temporalidade  imune  a organiza^ao  da  razao  logica  (Frank  15-17). 
Trata-se  de  um  tempo  que  adquire  a dimensao  da  intemporalidade  anterior  ao 
logos  (Blumenberg  38).  Ao  fazer  uso  desses  procedimentos  mitificantes,  Alegre 
recorre  ao  proprio  estilo  e propriedades  poeticas  de  Camoes.  Dessa  forma,  ao 
tratar  do  hipotexto  camoniano  de  forma  mitopoetica,  Alegre  confere  a sua 
propria  poesia  um  estatuto  mitico  aproximado  ao  seu  modelo. 

Para  assim  proceder,  o primeiro  elemento  a ser  aproveitado  por  Alegre  refere- 
-se  ao  ritmo  melodico  e a cadencia  vocabular  empregada  por  Camoes  nos  sens 
sonetos  e na  sua  poesia  epica.  Concomitante  com  essa  reelabora^ao  estilfstica, 
Alegre  vai  estruturando  as  ideias  tematicas  da  sua  cosmovisao  poetica  consubs- 
tanciada  na  interpreta^ao  da  vivencia  de  Camoes  enquanto  homem  e poeta, 
conforme  pode  ser  notado  nos  seguintes  versos  de  Com  que pena: 

Desterro  desconcerto  desatino 
vai-se  a vida  em  palavras  transmudada 
vai-se  a vida  e cantar  e um  destine 
pagina  a pagina  de  pena  e espada. 


Conjura  desengano  ma  fortuna 
oxala  so  vocabulos  mas  nao 
a escrita  nao  se  cinde  e a vida  e um 
cantar  e sem  perdao  sem  perdao. 


Quebrar  a regra  nenhum  verso  e livre 
outra  e a norma  e a frase  nunca  dita 
la  onde  de  dizer-se  e que  se  vive. 


Cortando  vao  as  naus  a curta  vida 
transforma-se  o que  escreve  em  sua  escrita 
Lusiadas  e a palavra  prometida.  (43) 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  365 

Este  poema  de  Alegre,  atraves  da  metatextualidade  construida  com  base  na 
apropria^ao  do  texto  camoniano,  constitui  uma  verdadeira  biografia  poetica 
de  Camoes.  A fidelidade  foco-emblematica  da  constru9ao  textual  de  Alegre  faz 
uma  mimesis  estetica  do  discurso  poetico  original  em  todos  os  seus  mVeis:  estru- 
tural,  estilfstico,  semantico  e tematico.  Em  termos  de  substrato  mitopoetico,  o 
texto  camoniano,  repoetizado  por  Alegre,  mitifica,  em  grandeza  epico-ideolo- 
gica,  a nacionalidade  historica  portuguesa  decantada  literariamente,  recordando, 
dessa  maneira,  a tradi^ao  da  mentalidade  lusitana  da  equivalencia  entre  Patria 
e cultura  literaria,  genialmente  concebida  e marcada  para  a posterioridade  por 
Fernando  Pessoa  ao  dizer:  “A  minha  patria  e a lingua  portuguesa”  (17).  Recu- 
perar  o sentido  da  grandiosidade  passada  atraves  da  missao  do  escritor,  que  se 
imola  em  fun^ao  da  escrita  patriotica,  parece  ser  o significado  do  mito  camo- 
niano entrevisto  por  Alegre.  O verso  final  do  soneto  de  Alegre,  “Lusiada  e a pala- 
vra  prometida,”  reflete  claramente  a nostalgica  esperan^a  que  todo  mito  encerra 
na  disposi^ao  de  sua  reatualiza^ao  temporal  (Blumenberg  17). 

A seguir,  algumas  considera^oes  mais  pontuais  merecem  ser  feitas  para  se 
verificar  essa  mitopoetiza9ao  de  Alegre  decalcada  no  texto  camoniano.  Den- 
tre  iniimeros  outros  versos  retrabalhados  por  Alegre  com  base  na  poesia  de 
Camoes,  os  seguintes  “Cortando  vao  as  naus  a curta  vida”  e “transforma-se  o 
que  escreve  em  sua  escrita”  constituem  uma  referencia  metatextual  aos  versos 
“Cortando  vao  as  naus  a larga  via”  e “Transforma-se  o amador  na  coisa  amada,” 
respectivamente  de  Os  Lusiadas  (1X.51)  e do  soneto  camoniano  que  principia 
por  aquele  mesmo  verso.  Entretanto,  o que  poderia  ser  aqui  tornado  como 
vulgarmente  parodistico  possui  a seriedade  de  um  sentido  ironico  e reflexivo, 
pois  corresponde  a ideia  de  efemeridade  historica  do  destino  do  poeta  e da 
gloria  da  sua  na9ao  Quinhentista  a ideia  de  perenidade  mitico-simbolica  em 
que  tal  gloria  e destino  se  transformariam  na  posteridade. 

A reapropria9ao  de  Camoes  por  Alegre  e,  em  todos  os  seus  aspectos,  de 
uma  coerencia  estetica  e ideologica  quase  que  perfeita.  Para  uma  maior  con- 
vergencia  dos  temas,  Alegre  apura-se  inclusive  na  imita9ao  estilistica  do  seu 
modelo.  Nesse  sentido,  o ritmo  melodico  de  Alegre  reproduz  o estilo  camo- 
niano da  cadencia  encontrada  no  decassilabo  de  incidencia  tonica  regular- 
mente  feita  na  sexta  e decima  silabas,  conforme  pode  ser  notado  nos  seguintes 
versos:  “Desterro  desconcmo  desarmo,  / vai-se  a vida  em  pa/^ras  transmu- 
dadd.''  Alegre,  para  demonstrar  a sua  consciencia  da  adequa9ao  entre  estilo  e 
ideia,  muda  esse  esquema  ritmico  no  verso  em  que  ele  fala  do  livremetrismo. 

Assim,  em  “Quebrar  a regra  n^nhum  verso  e //vre,”  de  decassilabo  o verso  passa 


PEDRO  CARLOS  LOUZADA  FONSECA 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


para  endecassilabo,  e a tonicidade  recai  na  setima  e na  decima  primeira  si'labas. 

Outro  elemcnto  detcrminanre  da  melodia  poetica  de  Camoes,  reapro- 
priado  por  Alegre,  e a repeti^ao  na  forma  do  polyptoton,  isto  e,  o emprego 
lexical  e/ou  sintatico  de  termos  de  varia^oes  cognatas.  Dentre  os  varios  casos 
deste  recLirso  em  Camoes,  destacam-se  os  seguintes: 

MucLim-se  os  tempos,  mudam-se  ^s  vontades, 
mudn-se  o ser,  muda-se  a confian^a; 
todo  o mundo  e feito  de  mudan^a. 

Tomando  sempre  novas  qualidades.  (Camoes  102) 

Alegre  utiliza  esse  mesmo  recurso  como  indiretas  referencias  a Camoes, 
como  nos  seguintes  exemplos  de  Com  que pena\  ''vai-se  a vida  [...]  / vai-se  a 
vida  [...]  / cantar  e sem  perddo  e sem  perdao  / [...]  transforma-se  o que  escreve 
em  sua  escritd'  (43).  Esse  recurso  da  repeti(;ao  garante  a musicalidade  natural 
da  lingua  (Friedrich  27),  tornando-se  um  elemento  essencial  para  a consolida- 
^ao  do  efeito  mitopoetico.  Se  a constru^ao  mitopoetica  de  Camoes,  feita  por 
Alegre,  se  baseia  num  dialogo  intertextual  e se  o dialogo  se  caracteriza  pelo 
uso,  dentre  outros  recursos,  da  repeti^ao  enquanto  produ^ao  de  um  envol- 
vimento  emocional  (Tannen  48),  entao  esta  explicada  a disposi^ao  emotiva 
com  a qual  Alegre  dialoga  com  Camoes  na  sua  poesia.  Tal  disposi^ao  dialogica 
da  mitopoetiza^ao  camoniana  de  Alegre  pode  ser  empaticamente  notada  nos 
seguintes  versos  de  Com  que  pena:  “teu  canto  e tu  sao  nossa  rima  e nosso  ritmo 
/ decassilabos  em  volta  do  planeta”  (10). 

No  afa  de  elevar  Camoes  a simbolo  cultural  da  nacionalidade  portuguesa, 
Alegre  corresponde  ou  amplia  o canto  literario  do  poeta  renascentista  a pro- 
pria melodia  da  voz  popular: 

Talvez  soubesse  [Camoes]  o que  mais  tarde 
Eliot  havia  de  formular:  a miisica 
da  poesia  e a musica  latente  do  falar 
corrente  [...].  (32) 

E bastante  conhecido  o sentimento  nostalgico  dos  velhos  e autenticos  valo- 
res  da  ra^a  portuguesa,  que  Camoes  expressa  para  censurar  os  desmandos  mate- 
rialistas  responsaveis  pelo  declinio  cultural,  moral  e politico  de  um  Portugal  na 
epoca  do  seu  imperio  ultramarino;  sentimento  esse  associado  a sua  cosmovisao 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  367 

poetica  e filosofica  do  estado  caotico  e desconcertado  do  moderno  mundo  em 
que  vivia.  No  terreno  mitico,  declfnio  e desconcerto  constituem  a contraparte 
disforica  do  modo  de  ser  das  constru^oes  miticas  (Bollack  67-116).  Alegre,  da 
mesma  forma  que  Camoes,  expressa  uma  nostalgia  do  passado  portugues  tra- 
dicional,  revela  um  sentimento  nostalgico  da  passada,  porem  profetizada  por 
Camoes  como  fatua  e efemera,  gloria  de  um  Portugal  da  epoca  das  conquistas 
e expansao  alem-mar,  podendo-se,  com  essa  aproxima^o,  afirmar  que,  para  a 
mentalidade  e cultura  portuguesas,  o binomio  patria-poesia  constitui-se  essen- 
cialmente  baseado  na  memoria  do  passado.  Nesse  sentido,  podem  ser  lidos  os 
seguintes  versos  de  Com  que pena\ 

Vai-se  a India  em  vogais  e consoantes 
o resto  e morrer  de  pequenez 
Camoes  porque  poema  nunca  dantes. 

Maldivas  Madagascar  Mozambique 
nao  mais  can^ao  um  ritmo  portugues.  (47) 

Como  nota  final  dessa  nostalgica  reconstru^ao  mitopoetica  de  Camoes, 

Alegre  testemunha  o realizar  da  profetica  intui^ao  camoniana  ao,  paradoxal- 
mente  (porque  misto  de  euforia  e fatalismo),  conceber  a funda^ao  heroica  da 
identidade  nacional  ja  continente  dos  motivos  e das  causas  germinais  do  seu 
proprio  fim.  Dessa  epoca  passada — de  cujas  reencarnazoes  o Mito  do  Sebas- 
tianismo  tornou-se  a expressao  mais  autentica — o que  resta  e so  a literatura, 
o heroico  poetico  da  epica  camoniana.  Mesmo  a sua  imortal  grandiloquencia 
passa  com  a morte  do  seu  autor,  num  povo  que  perdeu  a sua  cultura,  tornando- 
-se  na  “gente  cega  e muda  [que]  somos  nos”  (41).  Devido  a isto,  Alegre  pede 
que  o hipotexto  mitopoetico  de  Camoes  fale  atraves  de  si,  da  sua  poesia  de 
Com  que pena,  isto  e,  com  a pena  (instrumento)  da  escrita  de  ambos  e a pena 
(sofrimento)  por  ambos  sentida  pelo  destino  historico  e cultural  do  seu  povo. 

Na  sua  absoluta  fidelidade  poetica  e idearia  a cosmovisao  camoniana,  Ale- 
gre, ressentido  com  a condiqao  do  seu  proprio  tempo  cultural  e historico,  con- 
tinua  incansavelmente  a tecer  e a destecer — Penelope  ulissiaca  a espera  do  seu 
Portugal — o tecido  textual  de  Camoes,  flamula  da  identidade  nacional.  Assim 
e que  Alegre — com  o sentimento  do  desconcerto  dos  versos  do  seu  inspirador 
(“Mudam-se  os  tempos,  mudam-se  as  vontades”),  mas  sem  perder  a tipica 
amorosidade  (“[Amor]  e dor  que  sente  sem  doer”) — finalmente  endere^a  a 
Camoes  o seu  apelo  apostrofico: 


PEDRO  CARLOS  LOUZADA  FONSECA 


368 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Com  que  voz  nos  diria  com  que  voz? 
O tempo  se  mudou  mas  nao  o sen 
talas  connosco  as  vezes  quase  a sos 
e o que  te  doi  nos  dizes  sem  doer.  (41) 


Dada  a densidade  do  poder  de  intertextualiza^ao  e metatextualiza^ao  de 
Alegre,  resta  conckiir,  pergLintando  a outro  poeta  do  mais  genumo  sentimento 
portugLies  e universal — o Fernando  Pessoa  da  “Autopsicografia” — o que  ele 
diria  da  dor-sentimento  de  Camoes  refletida  no  verso  de  Alegre:  “e  o que  te 
doi  nos  dizes  sem  doer”  (41). 


Obras  Citadas 

Alegre,  Manuel.  Com  que  perm:  vinte  poemas  para  Camoes.  Lisboa:  Publica^oes  Dom  Quixote, 
1992.  Impresso. 

Bakhtin,  Mikhail.  The  Dialogic  Imagination.  Trans.  Caryl  Emerson  and  Michael  Holquist. 
Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1990.  Impresso. 

Blumemberg,  Hans.  “Wirklichkeitsbergrif  und  Wirkungspotential  des  Mythos.”  Terror  und 
Spiel.  Ed.  Hrsg.  von  Manfred  Fuhrmann.  Miinchen:  W.  Fink,  1971.  Impresso. 

Bollack,  Jean.  “Mystiche  Deutung  und  Deutung  des  Mythos.”  Terror  und  Spiel.  Ed.  Hrsg.  von 
Manfred  Fuhrmann.  Miinchen:  W.  Fink,  1971.  Impresso. 

Borges,  Jorge  Luis.  “Kafka  y sus  precursores.”  Otras  inquisiciones.  Buenos  Aires:  Ediciones  del 
Sur,  1963.  Impresso. 

Brownlee,  Kevin,  and  Walter  Stephens.  Introduction.  Discourses  of  Authority  in  Medieval  and 
Renaissance  Literature.  Ed.  Kevin  Brownlee  and  Walter  Stephens.  Hanover  and  London: 
University  Press  of  New  England,  1989.  Impresso. 

Brownlee,  Maria  Scordilis.  “The  Counterfeit  Muse:  Ovid,  Boccaccio,  Juan  Flores.”  Discourses  of 
Authority  in  Medieval  and  Renaissance  Literature.  Ed.  Kevin  Brownlee  and  Walter  Stephens. 
Hanover  and  London:  University  Press  of  New  England,  1989.  Impresso. 

Camoes,  Luis  Vaz  de.  Poesia  lirica.  Ed.  de  Isabel  Pascoal.  Lisboa:  Editora  Ulisseia,  1980.  Impresso. 
Castro,  E.  M.  Melo  e.  A literatura portuguesa  de  invengao.  Sao  Paulo:  DIFEL,  1984.  Impresso. 

Frank,  Manfred.  “Die  Dichtung  als  ‘Neue  Mythologie.’”  Mythos  und  Moderne.  Frankfurt  am 
Maim:  Suhrkamp,  1983.  Impresso. 

Friedrich,  Paul.  The  Language  Parallax.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1986.  Impresso. 
Kristeva,  Julia.  The  Kristeva  Reader.  Ed.  Toril  Moi.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1969. 
Impresso. 

Pessoa,  Fernando.  O livro  do  desassossego.  Lisboa:  Editora  Atica,  1 982.  Impresso. 

Tannen,  Deborah.  Talking  Voices.  New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1989.  Impresso. 
Todorov,  Tzvetan.  “La  lecture  comme  construction.”  PoetiquelA  (1975):  413-26.  Impresso. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


369 


Pedro  Carlos  Louzada  Fonseca  is  professor  of  Portuguese  literature  at  the  Federal 
University  of  Goias  (Brazil),  where  he  serves  as  the  editor  of  Signotica,  the  journal  of 
Graduate  Studies  in  Letters  and  Linguistics.  His  publications  include  numerous  articles 
published  in  Brazil  and  in  the  United  States  on  such  topics  as  the  medieval  bestiary  and 
Luso-Brazilian  colonial  literature.  His  book  Bestidrio  e discurso  do  genero  no  descohrimento 
da  America  e nacolonizagao  do  Brasil  (Sao  Paulo:  EDUSC)  appeared  in  2010.  Among 
his  research  interests  are  misogynistic  and  pro-women  discourses  in  medieval  literature. 
E-mail:  pfonseca@globo.com 


PEDRO  CARLOS  LOUZADA  FONSECA 


* 


1 


* J 


s ':  ht .. 


V 


■,f^,  ■'> 


',  . 


’Pi 


Portuguese  Short  Takes:  Three  Storytellers  in  Portugal's 
Post-Revolution  Years 


Rui  Zink 


Abstract.  How  does  literature  map  a nation’s  issues — namely,  in  the 
Portuguese  case,  the  colonial  war,  women’s  role,  and  gay  rights?  The  novel 
has  been  fiction’s  most  successful  form  for  the  last  two  centuries,  yet  a case 
may  be  argued  for  a more  compact  form  to  convey  modern-day  conflicts. 
Joyce  Carol  Oates  says  that  short  stories  are  “a  form  ideally  suited  for  the 
expression  of  the  imagination.”  Mario  de  Carvalho,  Teresa  Veiga,  and 
Miguel  Vale  de  Almeida  wrote  stories  that,  by  the  way  they  deal  with 
issues  and  their  mastery  of  the  form,  help  to  map  contemporary  Portugal. 


Establishing  a canon  for  the  short  story 

Anyone  slightly  familiar  with  publishing  is  aware  of  it:  though  readers  have  less 
and  less  time  to  read — given  the  huge  competition  from  other  media — longer 
novels  still  tend  to  be  more  successful  than  short  story  collections.  And  even 
great  short  story  masters  like  John  Cheever  or  Truman  Capote  are  better  known 
for  their  longer  writings,  Raymond  Carver  and  Jorge  Luis  Borges  being  rare 
cases  of  authors  who  gained  high  appraisal  while  writing  only  stories. 

Portuguese  post- 1974  fiction  is  no  exception,  with  Saramago’s,  Cardoso 
Pires’s,  Bessa  Luis’s,  and  Lobo  Antunes’s  novels  as  the  best-known  (and  deserv- 
edly so)  pillars  of  the  country’s  literary  prose  in  the  democracy  years. 

However,  short  stories  are  important.  Joyce  Carol  Oates  considers  them 
“a  form  ideally  suited  for  the  expression  of  the  imagination”  {Oxford  Book 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23124  (2012):  371-388. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


372 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


of  American  Short  Stories  4).  It  could  be  said  that  an  incisive  short  story  can 
be  like  a knife  whose  cut  disembowels  before  one  even  notices.  The  writers 
mentioned  knew  it  too,  for  without  exception,  as  a kind  of  sabbatical  between 
writing  their  novels,  over  the  years  they  often  published  stories  in  magazines 
and  in  major  newspapers’  summer  editions. 

Admittedly,  writing  a good  short  story  is  easier  than  writing  a good  novel. 
Size  matters,  as  Russian  critic  Boris  Eickenbaum  acknowledged  in  1925 — for 
size  in  a literary  work  is  a measure  of  breath,  rhythm,  melody,  that  is  to  say, 
form.  A novel  demands  a long  stance  that  is  not  for  the  meek,  even  in  this  era 
when  from  beneath  every  stone  the  unexpected  writer  seems  to  pop  up.  How- 
ever, the  same  cannot  be  said  about  a great  story  or  an  outstanding  novella. 
The  same  goes  with  poetry:  to  write  a good  poem  may  be  in  anyone’s  grasp, 
but  to  write  a great  poem  is  another  matter.  And  if  one  were  to  try  to  design 
a canon  of  important  Portuguese  stories  that  would  trace  a map  of  Portugal’s 
last  four  decades,  one  might  look  for  other  writers  than  the  usual  suspects. 

Why  1974-2001? 

Prose  fiction  somehow  deals  with  reality.  It  has  been  said  that  fiction  searches 
for  an  epoch’s  inner  truth,  free  as  it  is  to  avoid  the  lies  of  factual  events.  It 
takes  its  pulse  from  real  life  and  reflects  its  tensions  like  a violinist  tuning  the 
strings  of  his  instrument.  Thus,  a canon  of  Portuguese  short  fiction  should 
deal  both  with  the  work  on  the  language — the  very  key  to  literature — and 
the  texts’  connection  with  the  outside  world  they  somehow  represent.  Paul 
Ricoeur  elegantly  defined  literature  as  “the  quasi-world  built  by  interactive 
literary  texts”  {Du  texte  a V action  viii),  and  when  one  talks  about  national 
literatures  we  picture  the  relationship  between  these  two  semi-worlds,  the  one 
made  by  texts  and  the  one  defined  by  geographical,  historical,  metaphysical, 
and  mythical  borders. 

25  April  1974  is  a defining  moment  in  Portuguese  twentieth-century  his- 
tory. It  ought  to  be  a very  acceptable  landmark  to  any  sensible  critic.  Where 
should  we  put  the  other  landmark?  Maybe  11  September  2001.  One  may 
argue  that  the  latter  is  not  of  such  a national  importance  as  the  former.  Then 
again,  one  may  also  argue  that  if  April  1974  sent  the  Portuguese  on  a quest  for 
democracy  and  its  promised  benefits — freedom,  the  abolishment  of  censor- 
ship, wealth,  optimism — 9/1 1 hurt  the  perception  of  democracy’s  overwhelm- 
ing power  in  more  than  one  sense.  To  say  the  least,  security  seems  nowadays 
a more  common  word  than  freedom.  Another  argument  in  defense  of  this 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


373 


paradigm:  if  Salazar  could  say  “We  are  proudly  alone,”'  joining  democracy’s 
family  (namely  joining  the  EEC  in  1986)  meant  “alone  nevermore.” 

Censorship 

Jacinto  Prado  Coelho  points  out  censorship  as  one  of  the  main  traits  of  Por- 
tuguese literature’s  character — not  only  during  Salazar’s  dictatorship  (1926- 
1974)  but  also  during  other  regimes  through  about  four  centuries,  with  the 
religious  Index,  the  Royal  Censors,  and  so  on  ( Originalidade  da  literatura  por- 
tuguesd).  It  may  go  as  well  for  any  regime — it  remains  as  a pressure  on  Portu- 
guese literature.  Nonetheless,  print  was  very  much  alive,  and  writers  tried  to 
do  their  best.  Only  censorship  was  more  than  present,  it  was  present.  Writers 
got  so  used  to  seeing  their  books  apprehended,  or  fearing  that,  they  learned 
to  deal  with  it  by  writing  between  the  lines,  insinuating  more  than  expressing 
directly,  for  fear  of  imprisonment. 

This  state  of  affairs  leads  to  at  least  two  things:  the  omnipresence,  in  writ- 
ers’ minds,  of  the  censor  (not  necessarily  the  fear,  but  at  least  a sort  of  annoy- 
ing, sometimes  exciting,  background  noise),  and  the  longing  for  foreign  read- 
ing material  to  learn  from.  In  fact,  since  the  eighteenth  century  o estrangeiro 
was  something  more  than  a daring  place  filled  with  cultures  and  artifacts  not 
fully  understood — it  was  a world  filled  with  promise,  where  ideas  circulate 
freely.  In  a Western  world  too  sure  of  its  “superiority,”  Portuguese  (and,  among 
them,  Portuguese  artists  and  intellectuals)  tended  to  be  something  other  than 
xenophobes,  they  were — they  still  are — enthusiastically  xenophiles. 

In  literary  terms,  this  means  being  open  to  outside  influences.  An  inter- 
esting project  would  be,  for  instance,  to  compare  the  formative  readings  by 
American  and  Portuguese  writers.  Naturally,  this  could  be  extended  to  other 
nationalities.  In  a less  developed  form,  it  is  easier  to  do  so  than  one  would 
expect,  simply  based  on  a corpus  of  interviews  from  printed  sources  in  a given 
time.  For  the  moment,  this  unproven  assumption  should  be  enough:  Portu- 
guese writers  learn  their  trade  not  only  from  the  writers  who  forged/formed 
the  Portuguese  language  and  mind  frame,  but — in  a variable  though  signifi- 
cant amount — from  outside  sources.  For  instance,  one  can  trace  in  Saramago 
the  Colombian  Garda  Marquez’s  influence  more  than  that  of  any  Portuguese 
writer.  As  for  Lobo  Antunes  it  would  be  Faulkner;  for  Mega  Ferreira,  the 
Argentinean  Borges;  for  Diniz  Machado,  American  hard-boiled  detective 
stories  and  cinema  noir.  This  is  not  a problem,  just  a hint  at  the  variety  of 
influences  on  Portuguese  writers — which,  somehow  curiously,  might  lead  to  a 


RUIZINK 


374 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


lack  ot  communication  among  them.  One  of  the  not-so-beneficial  side  effects 
of  this  nearly  automatic  search  for  other  literatures  leads,  sometimes,  to  an 
under-nourishment  of  mutual  references. 

A canon 

A canon  is  not  much  more  than  a proposal — a tentative  reader.  If  the  reader’s 
organizer(s)  to  do  their  best,  in  the  most  honest  and  informed  way,  it  is  up 
to  others  to  check  whether  that  very  reader  is  useful  or  not.  When  one  deals 
with  controversial  canons  of  contemporary  fiction,  like  that  by  Harold  Bloom 
( Western  Canon),  disagreement  and  disappointment  are  inevitable:  Does  any- 
one agree  with  Bloom’s  choices?  That’s  not  the  point,  though.  The  point  is, 
in  fact,  two  points:  (1)  a canon  is  a useful  tool  to  organize  thought  about 
literature;  (2)  thanks  to  Mr.  Bloom’s  appraisal  I happened  to  be  able  to  read 
Cormac  McCarthy  long  before  Oprah  found  him.  And  I’m  grateful  to  Mr. 
Bloom  for  that. 

Thinking  about  a Portuguese  short  story  reader,  what  texts  from  which 
authors  would  one  choose?  Would  such  a book  be  coherent?  What  would 
be  the  criteria?  But,  of  course,  literary  quality,  what  else?  The  problem  is 
that  literary  quality  is  hard  to  grasp.  And  although  literary  quality  can  have 
its  judges,  its  award  juries,  its  prestigious  publishing  houses,  the  so-called 
literary  circuit  (Bourdieu  would  call  it  the  “literary  economic  system”  [Rules 
of  Art]),  it  is  still  a ghost  being  chased  by  fools,  especially  when  one  tries  to 
find  it  in  contemporary  texts,  failing  to  obey  a simple  mathematical  axiom: 
the  member  of  a group  cannot  contain  the  very  group  to  which  it  belongs.  If 
we  translate  “contain”  by  “evaluate  objectively”  the  analogy  becomes  clearer. 
Of  course,  the  alternative — that  scholars  only  devote  their  time  to  texts  from 
the  past — would  not  only  be  sensible,  it  would  also  be  unfair  and  pernicious. 
Unfair,  because  living  artists  should  not  pay  for  others’  limitations,  pernicious 
because  literary  studies  follow  Sisyphus’s  lesson:  to  keep  trying,  even  if  the 
possibility  of  success  is  unlikely. 

Such  a book  should  be  based  on  a machine — what  sort  of  machine?  As 
always,  it  would  be  the  reader’s  organizer(s)’s  choice,  plus  its  literary  value: 
each  story’s  connection  both  with  Portuguese  language  and  literature,  how 
it  adds  to  what  has  been  written  before.  But  I’d  say  each  story  should  also  be 
considered  by  the  way  it  addresses  Portuguese  reality  as  well  as  the  human 
condition.  This  could  be  asserted  because,  although  it  “represents  a con- 
centration of  imagination”  (Oates  5),  a story  also  answers  (echoes,  distorts. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  375 

subverts)  reality — it  just  can’t  help  it.  Thus,  Portuguese  stories  to  be  inserted 
in  such  a canon  should  also  be  considered  by  the  way  they  report  (in  the 
very  largest  sense  of  the  word)  Portuguese  themes — in  one  way  or  another. 

Of  course  one  cannot  exclude  novelists.  But  one  is  not  compelled  to  include 
them  on  account  of  their  success  as  novelists. 

My  reader  is  still  a work-in-progress,  but  I know  about  a few  stories  (and 
their  authors)  I’d  like  to  include  and  can  reasonably  justify.  For  instance, 
stories  by  Guilherme  de  Melo,  Eduardo  Pitta,  Lidia  Jorge,  Teolinda  Gersao, 

Pedro  Paixao,  Ines  Pedrosa,  Helia  Gorreia,  Luisa  Gosta  Gomes.  Or  outsiders 
like  Adilia  Lopes’s  narrative  poem  “Autobiografia”: 

Os  meus  gatos 
Gostam  de  brincar 
Com  as  minhas  baratas  (72). 

[My  cats 
like  to  play 

with  my  cockroaches.] 

From  Lobo  Antunes  I would  choose  one  of  his  cronicas,  namely,  the  one 
about  a day  at  the  mall,  a tiny  tale  where  he  catches  the  essence  of  Portuguese 
suburban  life  in  modernity.  The  same  goes  for  Miguel  Esteves  Gardoso,  one 
of  the  pillars  of  Portuguese  contemporary  writing,  influencing,  both  in  a good 
and  a not-so-good  way,  generations  of  promising  writers  with  his  humorous 
and  British  approach  to  Portuguese  culture. 

The  concept  of  this  reader  would  be,  “one  author,  one  shot,”  a difficult 
task,  for  some  writers  have  a world  of  wonderful  stories — Borges  for  one. 

Still,  it  can  be  done — it  has  been  done.  Although  not  always  fair,  it  allows  us 
to  hear  many  voices.  Afterwards,  we  can  look  more  closely  at  authors  who  got 
our  attention  and  find  out  more  about  their  work.  In  early  Japanese  Karate, 
championship  matches  were  decided  by  shobbu  ippon — one  strike  that  in  real 
combat  could  be  deadly.  (Of  course,  one  has  to  imagine  that.)  I rather  like 
the  concept  applied  to  writing:  one  tale  to  make  the  difference.  Actually,  one 
should  be  enough — and  if  our  mind  is  aroused  by  a story  in  such  a way  that 
we  want  to  look  up  other  works  by  its  writer,  so  much  the  better.  In  a way,  any 
anthology  implies  the  possibility  of  hypertext:  connections  and  ramifications 
born  from  each  text. 


RUI  ZINK 


376 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Reality  calls:  Three  outstanding  storytellers 

The  three  authors  discussed  below  are  not  necessarily  the  most  important. 
Their  stories,  however,  are  particularly  interesting  both  from  a strictly  literary 
point  ot  view  and  the  way  they  deal  with  reality  calls,  i.e.,  contemporary  issues. 
Mario  de  Carvalho  confronts  the  Portuguese  colonial  war  (1961-1974),  Teresa 
Veiga  and  Miguel  Vale  de  Almeida  approach  gender  issues.  Veiga  tends  to  pic- 
ture a womans  fate  as  a trap  set  up  before  her  time  and  into  which  eventually 
she  will  fall,  mainly  when  born  in  a provincial  area.  AJmeida  approaches  with 
both  accuracy  and  sensitivity  the  social  and  intimate  implications  of  gay  life. 

In  Mario  de  Carvalho  the  plot  device  is  the  backbone  of  his  work:  the 
composition  is  there,  perfectly  set,  before  the  writing  takes  place.  The  same 
follows  for  Almeidas  work.  And  after  the  frame  is  set,  the  writer  only  has  to 
insert  the  words  in  their  most  appropriate  places — fill  in  the  blanks,  as  it  were. 

Teresa  Veiga  is  more  serpentine.  Composition  is  there,  as  well  as  struc- 
ture— but  it  is  not  the  main  thing.  Veiga  is  about  the  voice,  usually  a cynical 
young  woman’s  voice — like  a grown-up  Alice  with  an  M before  the  A. 

As  for  Miguel  Vale  de  Almeida,  he  uses  a clear,  straightforward  style,  and 
he  is  definitely  the  least  literary  of  the  three,  his  body  of  work  being  mainly 
in  anthropology. 

We  have  then:  (a)  a powerful  tale  about  Portuguese  colonial  war  on  several 
fronts  (Angola,  Mozambique,  Guine,  Cabo  Verde,  Timor,  S.  Tome);  (b)  a 
dreamlike  tale  about  a woman’s  coming-of-age;  (c)  a sharp  glimpse  at  gay 
subjects  in  post-democratic  Portugal. 

Mario  de  Carvalho 

Mario  de  Carvalho  (Lisbon,  1944)  is  one  of  Portugal’s  best-loved  writers — by 
readers  as  well  as  by  other  writers.  In  fact,  one  could  say  it  would  be  difficult 
(though  not  impossible,  as  human  nature  obliges)  to  find  a reader  who  doesn’t 
have  warm  feelings  towards  Carvalho  and  his  work.  This  sort  of  information, 
negligible  for  long-dead  artists,  has  its  value  when  one  knows  how  personal 
relations  affect  publishing  success,  mainly  in  small  countries  where  the  liter- 
ary circles  are  yet  smaller.  Carvalho’s  work  is  respected,  has  found  its  readers 
across  a thirty-year  career,  and  has  been  the  object  of  critical  appraisal  and  the 
recipient  of  some  important  awards. 

“Era  uma  vez  um  alferes”  is  not  only  a brilliant  story,  it  also  deploys  a very 
simple,  effective  plot  device  that  becomes  a powerful  metaphor  about  Portu- 
gal’s colonial  war:  a soldier  steps  onto  a landmine  and  can’t  move. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


377 


If  it  were  a play  we  could  call  this  the  first  act.  Then — beginning  of  second 
act — comes  a superior,  a captain,  who  helps  him  endure  the  wait  until  help 
comes.  The  alferes  is  an  ensign,  a junior  officer  rank,  and  constitutes  the  part 
of  the  army  who  actually  triggered  the  1974  Carnation  Revolution  in  Portu- 
gal: non-professional  low-grade  officers  (i.e.,  young  men  with  college  studies, 
a plus  in  Salazar  s Portugal)  sent  to  the  battlefront  as  cannon  fodder,  while  the 
professionals  knew  better.^  As  for  his  superior,  a captain  (and  a career  offi- 
cer), he  is  not  only  loyal  to  the  regime  but  also  a man  reputed  for  his  cruelty. 
However,  in  the  course  of  events  (or  non-events)  he  shows  both  unexpected 
bravery  and  compassion,  as  he  is  willing  to  help  his  fellow  in  trouble. 

We  then  have  a young  officer — unwilling,  in  spite  of  himself,  for  we’ll  come 
to  know  he  fled  to  Paris  at  a certain  moment  of  his  youth — leading  his  men 
across  the  savannah,  when  suddenly  he  hears  a click  and  realizes  he’s  stepped  on 
a mine.  Now,  like  Portugal  in  that  war,  he  can’t  move,  neither  forward  or  back- 
wards. The  only  thing  he  can  do  is  wait,  wait  for  the  mine  brigade.  But,  to  his 
surprise  (and  his  comrades’),  it’s  not  the  mine  experts  who  come  but  a captain, 
this  one  a professional  officer,  known  for  his  rigidity,  his  cruelty,  his  allegiance 
to  the  regime,  his  cold  distance  towards  the  soldiers.  However,  surprisingly 
enough,  this  captain  now  appears  nearly  shockingly  agreeable:  “ — Entao,  nosso 
alferes,  um  contratempo  irritante,  ha?  C’est  la  guerre  [...]”  (114)  [“ — My,  my, 
lieutenant,  what  do  we  have  here?  Quite  an  upset,  hmm?”]. 

One  does  not  need  to  be  an  expert  in  irony  to  see  the  ambiguity  in  these 
words.  Three  possible  meanings  come  to  mind:  (a)  the  captain  is  not  aware 
yet  of  how  serious  the  situation  is;  (b)  he  is  trying  to  lighten  things  up,  as 
a doctor  would  do  to  cheer  up  a patient’s  spirits;  (c)  he  is,  for  some  reason, 
teasing  the  alferes. 

However,  one  doesn’t  know  why,  and  both  soldiers  and  reader  may  admire 
his  courage.  Though  slightly  annoying,  he  seems  fearless  and  genuinely  willing 
to  help  the  lieutenant.  Maybe  he’s  not  so  bad,  after  all.  He  volunteers  to  keep  the 
younger  officer  company.  Well  both  bbw  up,  if  it  comes  to  that,  says  his  behavior. 
He’s  even  compassionate,  as  if  saying:  Hold  my  hand,  soldier:  do  not  despair. 

The  alferes  has  trouble  balancing  the  captain’s  presence  with  what  he  has 
heard  about  him  before.  Flashbacks  and  the  present  situation  intertwine,  never 
losing  the  tension.  It  is  a compact  tale,  in  spite  of  this  double-sided  structure. 

Anti-personnel  landmines  were  a soldier’s — or,  after  the  war,  a child’s — 
nightmare,  especially  in  Angola.  In  1996,  Angola  was  labeled  the  country 
with  the  largest  amount  of  such  mines  in  the  world.  One  of  the  rumors  about 


RUI  ZINK 


378 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Princess  Diana’s  death  had  to  do  with  such  reality — her  fight  against  these 
mines  forgotten  in  Angolan  soil  long  after  the  colonial  war  ended. 

For  these  anti-personnel  mines  didn’t  necessarily  kill,  they  could  take  off 
a limb  or  two. 

From  this  departure  point — stepping  on  a mine — unfolds  the  rest  of  the 
story.  Through  fiashbacks,  the  life  of  the  lieutenant  as  a college  student,  his 
flight  to  Paris  where  he  lived  in  exile,  and  a portrait  of  a young  man  as  a clumsy 
rebel  in  a country  that  seems  like  a huis  clos.  Back  to  the  present  moment, 
nothing  has  changed.  The  soldiers  are  clueless  until  the  captain  arrives. 

Thus  we  have  two  main  characters:  the  alferes  and  the  captain,  whose 
interaction  is  somehow  like  that  of  Othello  and  lago.  And  two  secondary 
characters;  no,  not  the  medic  or  the  other  soldiers  (I’d  call  them  the  chorus, 
as  in  Greek  tragedies).  The  two  secondary  characters,  actually  both  invisible, 
are  Africa  (its  life,  its  “freedom  fighters,”  its  richness,  its  beauty,  its  strength, 
its  inhabitants)  and  the  landmine. 

[O]  alferes,  uma  vez  mais,  deu-se  a profanar  urn  poema  entredentes.  Eram  versos 
de  Sedar  Senghor  que  gera^oes  sucessivas  de  oficiais  universitarios  haviam  virado 
do  avesso:  J’ecoute  le  chant  de  I'Afrique  lointaine  et  le  chant  de  ton  sang[...].  J’ecoute 
le  sang  de  I’Afrique putaine  et  le  chant  de  ton  sein  [...].  (99) 

[(O)nce  again,  the  alferes  found  himself  mumbling  a poem.  Verses  by  Sedar 
Senghor  twisted  by  generations  of  officers  with  a college  education:  / listen  to  the 
song  of  far  away  Africa  and  the  song  of  your  blood  (...).  / listen  to  the  blood  of  fucking 
Africa  and  the  song  of  your  tit 

This  version  of  original  verses  by  Senegal’s  president-poet  and  indepen- 
dence hero,  Leopold  Sengar  Senghor — the  only  mark  of  a black  African  in 
the  story — appear  without  translation.  No  need.  In  the  70s  and  80s,  a cul- 
tured Portuguese — as  the  main  character  and  the  potential  reader — would 
read  French  fluently  (nowadays  English  has  replaced  it).^ 

Besides  this  poem,  whose  verses  are  maliciously  twisted  as  children  often 
do  to  lyrics  of  known  songs,  there  are  no  Africans — and  no  turras — in  this 
war  story  set  in  Africa.  ( Turras  is  another  word  for  terroristas  [“terrorists”],  and 
it  has  somehow  a nearly  comic  sound.)  The  black  guerrillas  are  a present  fear 
but  absent  as  ghosts,  or  present  only  as  ghosts.  Well,  there  is  the  mine — the 
mine  represents  them,  is  their  work,  a mark  of  their  presence  as  droppings  are, 
in  safari  parks,  sometimes  the  only  sign  of  nearby  beasts. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


379 


However,  this  reasoning  comes  undone  when  we  realize  that  actually  there 
is  no  mine — and  whatever  it  was,  it  was  not  put  there  by  the  turras  (materi- 
ally) or  by  Africa  (symbolically).  What  seemed  like  war — in  Africa,  against  a 
fearsome  enemy — ends  up  being  a completely  Portuguese  affair,  a monologue 
of  the  colonizer  with  himself,  or  a dialogue  inside  that  monologue,  between 
two  opposite  sides  of  the  same  coin:  the  young,  idealist  alferes  trapped  in  a 
situation  he  didn’t  ask  for,  and  the  captain,  unable  to  accept  that  the  way  he 
sees  things  is  outdated,  if  not  utterly  wrong. 

Kafka  and  Beckett  can  be  considered  strong  influences  in  Mario  de  Car- 
valho’s work,  although  he  stays  closer  to  common  ground  than  them.  In  other 
works,  Carvalho  will  show  a benevolent  humor  (however  aggressive  it  might 
pretend  to  be)  that  will  eventually  reach  its  peak  in  the  1992  novel  Era  bom 
que  trocdssemos  algumas  ideias  sobre  o assunto,  in  which  a frustrated  middle- 
aged  man  tries  to  become  a member  of  the  Portuguese  Communist  Party,  not 
because  of  some  ideological  sudden  illumination,  but  because  he’s  hurt,  his 
life  seems  a failure,  and  the  PCP  seems  like  a nice,  cozy  place  where  the  elderly 
are  treated  with  respect. 

In  the  end,  hours  pass  and,  for  some  reason,  the  experts  are  late.  They  will 
not  come,  and  we  will  know  that  the  captain  never  called  them  in.  The  alferes 
faints  and — nothing  happens.  When  the  soldiers  check  on  the  alferes  they 
realize  he  died  of  a heart  attack,  of  exhaustion,  of  fear.  He  died.  The  mine 
was  never  there  or,  another  possibility,  it  was  a fake,  put  there  on  purpose  as 
someone’s  idea  of  a bad  joke. 

They  go  back  to  the  fort.  There  the  rumors  spread.  The  captain,  by  him- 
self, calmly  smokes  a cigarette.  The  medic,  drunk,  screams  in  tears,  “Sadico, 
sadico  do  Caracas!”  [“Sadistic,  sadistic  shit!”]  until  others  take  him  in. 

Discussing  this  story  in  public  libraries,  I noticed  it  is  not  clear  for  some 
readers  whether  it  was  the  captain  who  prepared  the  whole  scene.  It  is  clear 
for  me.  But  it  says  two  things:  Carvalho  could  write  a tale  that  summarizes 
the  very  nature  of  the  Portuguese  colonial  war,  and  the  debate  about  it  is  still 
there  and  wounds  are  not  yet  entirely  healed. 

Teresa  Veiga 

Teresa  Veiga  (Lisbon,  1945)  has  published,  so  far,  five  collections  of  stories 
and  novellas,  plus  one  (not  so  good)  novel.  When  Histdria  da  bela  fria  came 
out  as  a comet,  in  1992,  nobody  knew  what  to  say.^  Teresa  Veiga  was  a mature 
writer  publishing  her  third  collection  of  stories  as  humbly  as  a struggling 


RUIZINK 


380 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


writer  should  do — however,  with  an  empowered  style  one  could  expect  to 
see  only  in  masters.  Very  well,  we  can  cope  with  that:  she  waited  as  long  as 
needed,  Lintil  she  was  in  full  control  of  her  art,  before  publishing  whatever 
she  thought  worth  publishing.  Not  just  a collection  of  stories  but  a selection 
ot  stories.  And  these  were  long  stories,  nearly  novellas  some  of  them.  The  sen- 
tences were  accurate,  classical,  the  paragraphs  were  long  without  the  forced 
length  ot  some  Latin  American— influenced  magical  realism.  They  were  long 
in  a nineteenth  century  way,  elegant,  sober.  She  seemed  to  be  someone  who 
was  writing  with  leisure  on  her  hands,  and  for  an  educated  reader  who  has  no 
time  to  lose  with  rubbish  but  who  can  afford  an  hour  or  two  of  sheer,  old- 
fashioned  reading  pleasure. 

The  titles  of  some  stories  such  as  “A  amante  de  Kropochine”  (“Kropo- 
chine’s  lover”)  may  remind  us  of  Russian-born  Nina  Berberova.  And  yes,  I 
feel  (but  it  can  be  an  illusion)  echoes  of  Berberovas  Astachev  a Paris  and  Le 
mal  noir.  Berberova  (191 1-1985)  was  a descendant  of  White  Russians,  whose 
wonderful  gems  of  novellas  were  (re-) discovered  only  very  late,  in  a similar 
(but  less  spectacular)  way  as  Hungarian  Sandor  Marai.  Did  Teresa  Veiga  read 
those  same  books?  1 would  say  so,  though  1 can  hardly  prove  it.  As  it  happens, 
I can’t  even  prove  that  Teresa  Veiga  is  Teresa  Veiga! 

She  must  also  have  read  Agustina  Bessa  Luis  (1924),  but  then  again  every 
Portuguese  writer  read  and  loved  (or  jealously  loathed)  Agustina’s  torrential 
and  ironical  and  wise  fiction,  full  of  aphorisms,  genial  glimpses  at  the  human 
mind  and  behavior.^  From  Agustina  she  takes  the  humor,  the  bitter  irony,  the 
cruel  detail.  Not  the  form,  though.  Where  Agustina  has  been  criticized  for  the 
lack  of  editing  in  her  books,  one  can  say  nothing  about  the  clean,  clear  waters 
of  Veiga’s  discipline. 

We  say  she  but,  until  now,  nobody  but  her  publisher  really  knows  Teresa 
Veiga’s  identity.  Is  it  a real  name?  Is  it  actually  a woman?  Would  she  really 
nowadays  be  in  her  sixties  as  Wikipedia  attests?  Who  knows?  Some  tinker 
with  the  idea  of  her  being  the  alias  of  a renowned  writer,  and  I would  not 
discount  that  possibility.  Her  publisher  definitely  knows.  And,  of  course,  she 
knows — if  she  is  a she. 

All  the  stories  in  Histdria  da  bela  fria^iYt  in  the  first  person.  First  person  tends 
to  favor  the  idiosyncrasies  of  a personal  voice.  Though,  it  goes  without  saying, 
the  option  for  this  narrative  mode  doesn’t  necessarily  translate  immediately  into 
a search  for  an  authorial  voice.  However,  it  does  promote  such  a search.  It  could 
be  Narrative  101:  the  third  person  is  an  easier  tool  to  outline  events;  the  first 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


381 


person  privileges  the  voice,  and  makes  us  rely  on  (the  reader  either  accepts  it 
or  stops  there)  the  narrator’s  idiosyncrasies,  manias,  style,  etc.  Even  when  the 
narrator  is  distinct  from  the  author — and  in  fiction  it  seldom  happens — there 
is  still  a connection  between  them,  and  the  author’s  first  imaginative  task  is  to 
interiorize  (and  then  exteriorize)  the  narrator’s  voice.*^ 

Veiga’s  narrators  are,  nearly  always,  women.  As  for  the  tale,  it  tends  to  be 
apparently  trivial,  though  filtered  through  the  narrator’s  voice,  who  is  slightly 
unreliable  (no  reason  not  to  trust  her,  but. . .)  for  she  is  not  always  sure  of  the  way 
she  tells  things  (thus  making  the  reader  feel  less  secure):  “Talvez  eu  devesse  ter 
come9ado  por  contar  [...]”  (13)  [“Maybe  I should  have  begun  by  telling  (...)].” 

One  single  exception  in  Histdria  da  beta  fria  is  “O  Poeta  do  campo”  (“The 
provincial  poet”),  in  which  the  fait  divers  is  a remembrance  from  a town  judge 
of  his  first  professional  ordeal.  However,  it  soon  gains  the  tonalities  of  a perverse 
children’s  tale  and  the  telling  of  a vague  pedophilic  seduction  doesn’t  avoid — on 
the  contrary — the  characteristics  of  a traditional  oral  tale.  And  the  magistrate 
gets  lost  in  his  tale:  “Culpada  ou  inocente?  A verdade  e que  nao  consign  chegar  a 
uma  conclusao”  (58)  [“Guilty  or  innocent?  Truth  is,  I can’t  reach  a conclusion”]. 
It  is  a trait  of  Veiga’s  narrators:  no  matter  how  clear  minded  they  are,  or  even 
cruel  (and  cruelty  can  be  a sort  of  pragmatism  in  the  real  world),  they  get  lost  in 
their  own  tale,  or  we  may  say  they  get  lost  chasing  their  own  tale.  They  stumble, 
they  get  more  (or  less)  than  what  they  asked  for,  and  therefore  they  usually  lose. 
There  is  always  something  missing,  a bitter  taste  in  the  mouth,  the  feeling  that 
the  human  capacity  to  truly  enjoy  emotional  victories  is  overrated. 

Veiga’s  subject  is  frustration — frustration  allied  to  a sort  of  tenacity,  a capac- 
ity for  endurance  that  demands  a sacrifice.  To  put  it  plainly,  her  stories  are  about 
that  knowledge  of  defeat  that  seems  to  be  the  very  condition  of  a woman’s  fate 
in  a certain  Portugal  that  might  have  gone  free  but  whose  real  life,  mainly  in  its 
provincial  environment,  still  has  its  roots  in  a frozen  time.^  “Historia  da  bela 
fria”  and  “Consequencias  do  processo  de  descoloniza^ao” — my  two  favorite 
Teresa  Veiga  stories — deal  precisely  with  events  that  might  occur  anyway,  but 
our  feet  (well,  her  heroines’  feet)  may  be  imprisoned  in  dry  mud,  and  therefore 
it  is  too  late  for  them.  One  could  remember  Fernand  Braudel’s  lesson:  ideas  take 
a long  time  either  to  go  or  to  settle,  and  episodic  events  (for  instance,  a revolu- 
tion) are  not  going  to  change  that  from  one  day  to  the  next. 

Veiga’s  narrator  is  not  exactly  an  unreliable  teller — on  the  contrary,  she 
always  tells  what  she  thinks  actually  happened.  The  thing  is  she’s  not  always 
sure  of  what  exactly  did  happen.  She  doesn’t  know  how  to  wrap  up  a story 


RUIZINK 


382 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


either.  In  both  stories,  “Historia  da  bela  fria”  and  “Consequencias,”  there  is  no 
real  closure.  But,  ot  course,  that  is  exactly  where  Veiga  wants  us.  No  real  closure. 

Historia  da  bela  fria's  first  story  has  that  very  same  title.  It  won’t  take  long 
lor  the  reader  to  realize  that  both  book  and  story  are  one  single  manifesto',  of 
a tone,  a pace,  a willingness  not  to  take  prisoners. 

The  structure  is  intriguing.  One  tale  is  boxed  inside  the  other,  and  there 
is  a lack  oI  leverage  that  creates  a strange  effect,  for  it  seems  it  is  badly  orga- 
nized, yet  we  know  (since  page  1)  that  the  authorial  voice  is  the  master  of  the 
narrative  events. 

First  we  have  the  narrator’s  learning  of  life  circumstances  from  eavesdrop- 
ping on  her  mother’s  friends’  confidences.  Then,  all  of  a sudden,  she  gets 
stuck  in  one  of  the  stories — oddly  enough  not  one  she  heard  from  them. 
From  the  moment  she  knows  Aline  she  becomes  obsessed  and  for  half  of  the 
story  (1 1 pages  out  of  21)  we  listen  to  Aline  telling  her  mother’s  story  and, 
soon,  her  father  and  stepmother’s  tasteless  tragedy  (i.e.,  operatic  in  a kitsch 
way).  Like  a story  depicted  on  a lady’s  fan,  “bela  fria”  is  just  the  name  of  a 
villa  but  also  a synecdoche  for  three  other  betas  friasr.  Aline,  her  father’s  second 
wife,  the  narrator,  and,  yes,  also  the  author.  It  is  indeed  a statement,  a war  cry: 
watch  out,  folks,  here  comes  the  bela  fria,  the  ice-cold  beauty. 

Two  main  references  pop  out  at  me,  one  literary,  the  other  cinematic: 
the  in-boxing  of  One  Thousand  and  One  Nights,  and  the  narrative  mistake 
in  Fiitchcock’s  Psycho,  when  for  half  the  film  we  follow  one  story  and  then  it 
is  taken  away  from  us  and  we’re  thrown  forcefully  into  a very  different  one. 

Unless  the  reader  accepts  the  several  tales  as  part  of  a single  puzzle,  all  these 
women  are  ice-cold  beauties.  Given  the  circumstances — provincial,  well-off 
hypocritical  families  in,  let’s  say,  the  second  half  of  Portugal’s  twentieth  cen- 
tury— that  might  be  the  only  way  out  for  a clever  woman 

As  for  “Consequencias  do  processo  de  descoloniza^ao,”  the  book’s  other 
great  story,  it  is  a title  leading  straight  to  ambiguous  readings.  In  the  literal 
one  we  have  a scholarly  text  on  the  consequences  of  the  decolonizing  process. 
Otherwise  we  must  approach  this  title  suspicious  of  irony  and  wonder  where 
it  will  lead.  What  is  it?  Such  blunt,  “unattractive”  titles  are  not  that  uncom- 
mon in  twentieth-century  literature.  After  all,  literature  is  a tension  between 
faith  and  suspicion  in  the  power  of  words  to  mean  what  they  say,  and  one  can 
argue  that  in  this  resides  its  power. 

Once  again,  as  often  recurs  in  Veiga,  we  enter  a world  where  a pragmatic 
young  woman  (16?  26?  both  possibilities  are  likely),  with  a slightly  cynical 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


383 


and  disenchanted  view  of  the  world,  faces  a situation  she  can’t  control — in 
which  she’s  powerless — but  only  up  to  a certain  point.  Events  unfold  in  a 
trivial,  though  somehow  oneiric,  mode. 

The  subject  of  this  tale  is  quite  plain:  the  narrator  spends  the  summer  in 
a vacation  hotel  as  a chaperone  for  her  unmarried  cousin.  There  they  meet  a 
family  of  retornados  (people  who  came  back  from  the  colonies)  and  become 
daily  acquaintances.  The  father  is  an  unpleasant  former  military  man  and  the 
first  sentence  opens  with  him:  “Um  tipo  nojento,  o coronel,  sempre  a cagar 
senten^as”  (61)  [“A  disgusting  man,  the  colonel,  always  full  of  shit”]. 

Then  we  meet  the  mother,  a composed  lady,  very  uptight,  although  “diari- 
amente  fornicada”  (61)  [“Daily  attended  to  in  bed”],^  and  Semiramis,  the  beauti- 
ful daughter.  However,  these  are  just  the  preliminaries:  neither  the  title,  nor  the 
colonel,  nor  the  mother,  nor  the  seductive  Semiramis  are  the  main  characters  or 
what  the  story  is  about.  We  are  finally  introduced  to  the  son:  a midget  who  some- 
how didn’t  develop  as  his  parents  expected  (unheard  of  in  the  colonel’s  family, 
filled  with  competent  males),  and  stays  “prisoner”  in  his  room,  studying  to  enter 
the  university,  to  compensate  for  his  obvious  physical  incompetence. 

Miguel  Vale  de  Almeida 

Miguel  Vale  de  Almeida  (Lisbon,  1960)  has  been  for  years  a respected  voice 
in  the  Portuguese  public  arena  and  is  a major  contributor  on  gender  issues, 
as  well  as  a gay  rights  activist.  His  books  on  anthropology  are  translated  into 
English,  and  he  has  been  a visiting  professor  in  American  universities.  Of  the 
three  writers,  he’s  the  one  who  currently  follows  more  actively  the  European 
tradition  of  the  intervening  intellectual  (though  Carvalho  was  exiled  in  Swe- 
den until  1974).  At  the  same  time,  he  belongs  to  a new  generation — those 
who  were  teenagers  during  the  revolution — whose  cultural  center  is  no  longer 
Paris  but  New  York.  There  is  a clarity,  effectiveness,  and  economy  in  his  sto- 
rytelling that  owes  a debt  to  outstanding  twentieth-century  American  fiction 
both  in  written  and  cinematic  form. 

Quebrar  em  caso  de  emergencia  was  published  in  1 996  by  a small  publish- 
ing house,  Olhapim,  now  vanished.  Almeida  had  published  only  one  novel. 
Euronovela  (1997),  a political  tale  awarded  the  prestigious  Premio  Caminho  for 
best  science  fiction.  That  work,  written  both  before  and  after  some  of  the  sto- 
ries in  the  collection,  identifies  Almeida’s  main  targets  as  a fiction  writer,  as  an 
anthropologist,  and  as  a citizen:  gender  issues,  the  frail  and  strenuous  building  of 
a sexual  identity,  and  tensions  between  individual  choices  and  social  acceptance. 


RUIZINK 


384 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


There  is  a portrait  of  Portugal  in  the  80s  when  Almeida  himself  was  a 
young  man  and  then  a full-grown  adult,  and  a sharp  glimpse  into  the  slow 
social  building  oi  a gay  identity  that  is  now  understood  to  be  part  of  an  open 
society.  There  had  been  books  (not  many)  on  the  subject  of  homosexuality, 
but  Almeida’s  short  stories  have  an  agenda.  Without  being  polemics,  they  do 
have  a clear  and  sound  ideology. 

As  with  Carvalho,  in  “Uma  razao  para  tudo”  we  have  a simple  situation  from 
which  the  amplification  of  meaning  derives.  A social  worker  questions  a juvenile 
delinquent  accused  of  a petty  theft  in  a hotel  room.  The  boy  is  a punk  in  more 
than  one  sense:  not  only  is  he  jobless  and  mainly  living  in  the  streets,  he  is  also 
close  to  being  a male  prostitute  of  the  lowest  kind — the  ones  picked  up  on  street 
corners.  (Sociological  fact:  Portugal  being  a country  of  bom  costumes,  homosexual 
prostitution  in  some  parts  of  the  country  has  been  for  decades  at  once  illegal,  like 
all  other  kinds  of  public  exposure,  and  accepted,  that  is,  ignored.)^  As  with  Car- 
valho and  Veiga,  the  reader  perceives  an  author  fully  in  charge  of  his  tale. 

The  title — “A  reason  for  everything” — quotes  the  main  question  the  social 
worker  asks  the  boy:  “Tern  de  haver  uma  razao  para  tudo!”  (106)  [“There  is  a 
reason  for  everything!”]. 

The  social  worker  seems  to  try  to  understand  the  boy’s  motives  and  inquires 
about  them.  But  it  soon  becomes  apparent  that  she  is  not  only  disinterested 
but  also  devoid  of  genuine  empathy  and  the  intelligence  necessary  to  grasp 
the  boy’s  inner  drama.  Her  disinterest  in  really  wanting  to  know  why  he  stole 
the  wallet  represents  the  lack  of  concern  of  a system  both  intellectually  blind- 
folded and  emotionally  comatose.  The  question  is  eventually  answered — not 
by  her  but  by  the  reader.  Though  the  wrongdoer  himself  is  reluctant  to  answer 
the  clumsy  social  worker,  he  nevertheless  conveys  to  us  what  it  was  like  deal- 
ing with  his  sexuality  in  a small  town.  Almeida’s  style  is  precise  and  sensitive 
yet  able  to  put  bluntly  things  that  make  the  reader  understand  the  mixture  of 
shame,  loneliness,  and  inevitability  that  the  boy  faced  growing  up: 

O beto  e rabo!  O Beto  e puta!  (110) 

[Beto  takes  it  in  the  ass!] 

Eventually  we  do  find  out  what  went  on  in  that  hotel  room.  There  was 
a theft,  the  theft  of  a man’s  wallet.  Only  the  motive  was  not  money — but 
something  else.  After  a businessman  had  picked  up  the  boy  in  the  street  they 
went  to  the  man’s  hotel  room,  where  the  man  allowed  himself  to  engage  in 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


385 


sex.  But  when  Beto  tried  to  kiss  the  man  he  was  rejected — violently  and  with 
disgust. 

In  the  end,  the  juvenile  delinquent  gives  an  answer  that  satisfies  the  social 
worker’s  need  for  a logical  explanation: 

Foi  para  roubar? 

Ya.  (113) 

[Was  it  to  steal? 

Yeah.] 

Such  an  answer  is  satisfying  in  the  way  it  keeps  the  system  safe — and 
everybody  safe  from  troubling  questions:  What  was  the  boy  doing  with  that 
good  citizen?  Why  would  he  be  there?  Why  do  people  do  such  things?  Hypoc- 
risy is  the  key:  as  long  as  they  keep  to  themselves,  things  run  smoothly.  It  was 
a robbery,  a simple  robbery  motivated  by  monetary  needs  and  not  by  love 
betrayed.  The  man  didn’t  want  to  kiss  Beto,  for  it  was  safer  to  his  identity  to 
maintain  things  as  a financial  transaction  rather  than  as  an  emotional  one: 

Deslizei  um  bocadinho,  para  Ihe  dar  um  beijo,  dois  beijos,  sei  la,  apetecia-me 
beijar-lhe  os  labios.  Esbugalhou  os  olhos  e empurrou-me  para  o lado,  a bruta. 
“Alto  e para  o baile!  [...]  E melhor  ires-te  embora.  Va.  Quanto  e que  levas?  Nem 
me  deste  tempo  de  perguntar.”  (112) 

[I  moved  slightly,  to  give  him  a kiss,  two  kisses,  I don’t  know,  I felt  like  kissing 
him.  He  widened  his  eyes  and  brutally  pushed  me  aside.  “Now  you  wait!  [...] 

You  better  go  now.  Go.  How  much  was  it?  You  didn’t  even  give  me  time  to  ask.”] 

In  fact,  the  title  is  ironic  (as  usual  with  Veiga),  and  in  its  normalcy  pro- 
motes a second-degree  reading  in  which  the  reader  does  indeed  access  the 
true  motive  for  the  boy’s  crime. 

Vale  de  Almeida  shows  his  sensitivity  in  talking  about  what  is  not  sup- 
posed to  be  discussed.  Playing  off  with  the  title  of  one  of  Raymond  Carver’s 
best  known  stories,  “What  we  talk  about  when  we  talk  about  love,”  perhaps 
an  invisible  presence,  we  could  say  that  this  story  is  about  what  we  talk  about 
when  we  steal  our  one-night-stand  lover’s  wallet. 

What  do  we  know  about  that  young  man?  We  know  he  met  his  partner/ 
client/victim  in  some  shady  street.  The  man  was  probably  a married  busi- 
nessman passing  by  and — although  he  did  things  with  the  boy — he  couldn’t 


RUI  ZINK 


386 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


withhold  his  contempt  when  a tender  kiss  was  attempted.  There’s  the  motive: 
a lack  of  emotional  connection. 

We  redize  now  we  let  ourselves  fall  into  the  trap  of  prejudging.  Maybe  the 
boy  was  not  a juvenile  delinquent  after  all.  Not  a chronic  thief,  at  least.  He  was 
indeed  an  outsider.  That  condition  does  exist  and,  in  simple  strokes,  Almeida 
makes  it  clear  to  us:  growing  different,  enduring  contintious  bullying,  being 
marginalized,  and  slowly  pushed  into  a side  world  with  its  sordid  aspects. 

Miguel  Vale  de  Almeida  was  elected  to  Parliament  in  October  2009,  the 
first  gay  Portuguese  MP  in  35  years  of  democracy.  In  October  2010  Portugal 
was  the  third  European  nation  to  approve  gay  marriage. 

Imagination  and  the  imaginary 

Three  authors  and  three  stories  that  express  three  major  issues  in  contem- 
porary Portugal:  the  ghost  of  the  colonial  war,  the  shifting  status  of  women, 
alternative  sexualities. 

Short  stories  involve  us  because  they  connect  myth  and  experience,  and 
do  so  in  incisive  ways.  Literature  entails  imagination,  but  it  is  more  effective 
when  it  conveys  reality,  not  when  it  flees  it.  Are  there  more  realistic  stories 
than  Kafka’s  The  Metamorphosis  or  Grimm’s  fairy  tales?  The  way  things  are 
today,  1 look  forward  to  reading  an  excellent  story  about  the  current  eco- 
nomic crisis  that  adds  to  the  ever-evolving  canon.  For,  as  Kafka  would  put  it, 
reality  is  needed.  Or,  to  misquote  Beckett:  one  doesn’t  need  to  be  a realist  in 
order  to  grab  reality  by  its  horns.  Or  its  tail,  Picasso  might  have  added.  Portu- 
guese fiction  is  the  result  of  both  a collective  and  individual  work-in-progress. 
Its  answers  might  be  given  by  individual  authors,  but  once  published  they 
belong  to  the  realm  of  literature.  They  belong  to  us. 


Notes 

' “Estamos  orgulhosamente  sos.”  Although  Salazar  died  in  1969,  the  authoritarian  regime 
lasted  until  1974.  EEC:  European  Economic  Community.  Later  it  became  only  EC,  European 
Community. 

^ Data  about  Portugal’s  lack  of  literacy  until  1974  vary,  but  it  is  accepted  that  the  illiteracy 
rate  was  high,  between  30%  and  40%  of  the  adult  population,  uncommon  in  Europe. 

^ Portuguese  writers,  like  Portuguese  readers,  appear  to  be  more  open  to  the  world  than,  for 
instance,  French.  Fhough  not  scientifically  proven,  I believe  that  Portuguese  writers  tend  to  be 
fluent  and  active  readers  of  several  other  languages.  In  my  experience,  minor  languages  or  those 
with  little  political  influence  tend  to  promote  such  multilingualism. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


387 


A first  collection  of  stories,  published  ten  years  earlier,  had  a very  discreet  career.  Same  for 
O ultimo  amante  {\990) . 

^ Saramago  more  than  once  acknowledged  Agustina’s  genius,  in  a generosity  towards  a fel- 
low writer  not  always  easily  shared  by  writers  in  quest  of  immortality. 

^ Martin  Amis  has  been  often  accused  of  letting  his  own  voice  show  in  his  first-person  sto- 
ries (and  nearly  all  of  them  are  first  person):  no  matter  who  tells  the  story — an  American  police- 
woman, a Russian  old  man — they  all  sound  like  Amis. 

^ The  same  could  be  said  about  men,  but  in  Veiga  they  are  usually  too  plain  to  endure 
significant  metaphysical  pains. 

® To  put  it  mildly. 

^ Salazar’s  “mild  customs.” 


Works  Cited 

Almeida,  Miguel  Vale  de.  Euronovela.  Lisbon:  Caminho,  1998.  Print. 

. Quebrar  em  caso  de  emergencia.  Lisbon:  Olhapim,  1996.  Print. 

Berberova,  Nina.  Astachev  a Paris.  Trans.  P.  Y.  Bertrand.  Arles:  Acres  Sud,  1988.  Print. 

. Le  mal  noir.  Trans.  Luba  Jurgenson.  Arles:  Acres  Sud,  1 994.  Print. 

Bloom,  Harold.  The  Western  Canon:  The  Books  and  School  of  the  Ages.  New  York:  Harcourt 
Brace,  1994.  Print. 

Bourdieu,  Pierre.  Rules  of  Art:  Genesis  and  Structure  of  the  Literary  Field  [Les  regies  de  Part,  1 992] . 
Palo  7\lto,  CA:  Stanford  UP,  1996.  Print. 

Carvalho,  Mario  de.  “Era  uma  vez  um  alferes.”  Os  alferes.  3rd  ed.  Lisbon:  Caminho,  2000.  Print. 
. Era  bom  que  trocdssemos  algumas  ideias  sobre  o assunto.  Lisbon:  Caminho,  1995.  Print. 

Carver,  Raymond.  What  We  Talk  About  When  We  Talk  About  Love.  New  York:  Knopf,  1981. 
Print. 

Coelho,  Jacinto  Prado.  Originalidade  da  literatura  portuguesa.  Lisbon:  Instituto  de  Cultura  e 
Lingua  Portuguesa,  1 977.  Print. 

Grimm,  Jacob,  and  Wilhelm  Grimm.  The  Complete  Fairy  Tales  of  the  Brothers  Grimm.  Trans, 
and  intro.  Jack  Zipes.  New  York:  Bantam,  2003.  Print. 

Kafka,  Franz.  The  Metamorphosis,  In  the  Penal  Colony,  and  other  stories.  Trans.  Willa  and  Edwin 
Muir.  New  York:  Shocken,  1988.  Print. 

Lopes,  Adilia.  Dobra.  Poesia  reunida  1983—2007.  Lisbon:  Assi'rio  & 7\Jvim,  2009.  Print. 

Oates,  Joyce  Carol,  ed.  The  Oxford  Book  of  American  Short  Stories.  New  York:  Oxford  UP,  1992. 
Print. 

Ricoeur,  Paul.  Du  texte  a Paction.  Paris:  Seuil,  1 986.  Print. 

“Teresa  Veiga.”  Wikipedia.  2011.  Web.  15  Aug.  2012. 

Veiga,  Teresa.  Histdria  da  bela  fria.  Lisbon:  Cotovia,  1992.  Print. 


RUI  ZINK 


388 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Rui  Zink  (Lisbon,  1961)  is  a writer  and  a professor  of  Portuguese  literature  at  the 
Universidade  Nova  de  Lisboa.  Among  his  books  are  Hotel Lusitano  (1986)  and  O Anibaleitor 
(2010).  In  2009  he  was  Helio  and  Amdia  Pedroso/FLAD  Endowed  Chair  and  writer-in- 
residence  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth,  and,  in  2011,  writer-in-residence 
at  the  Middlebury  Language  School,  Vermont.  His  main  current  interest  is  the  interaction 
between  fiction  and  essay  in  contemporary  fiction.  Website:  http://ruizink.com 


Literary  Abodes:  Machado  de  Assis  on  Interiors 


Estela  Vieira 


Abstract.  This  article  looks  at  how  the  arrangement  of  domestic  interiors 
and  interior  decorating  become  increasingly  important  topics  of  cultural 
inquiry  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century.  This  cultural  and  social 
phenomenon  is  specifically  intertwined  with  the  development  of  narrative 
and  has  an  important  influence  on  the  work  of  Machado  de  Assis. 

This  essay  examines  important  biographical  information  and  some  of  the 
author’s  personal  correspondence  in  order  to  analyze  Machado’s  relation 
to  houses,  furnishings,  and  interiors.  Machado  develops  in  his  narrative  a 
discourse  concerning  interior  settings  and  their  contents  that  interrogates 
what  it  means  to  inhabit  space  and  to  have  space  inhabit  the  novel. 

The  author’s  experience  with  rooms,  furnishings,  and  objects  suggests  that 
dwelling  revealed  something  to  him  about  the  problematic  mode  of  both 
existence  and  poetics. 


It  is  hard  to  find  a late  nineteenth-century  novel  that  is  not  fascinated  with 
dwellings  and  with  their  interiors  in  particular.  One  has  only  to  recall  Henry 
James’s  The  Spoils  ofPoynton  to  be  reminded  of  the  ubiquitous  trend  of  many 
of  these  narratives  to  turn  not  only  homes  into  protagonists,  but  also  the 
contents  of  houses  into  major  characters  of  a story.  Mrs.  Gereth,  who  is  intro- 
duced to  us  as  a woman  “who  had  been  kept  awake  for  hours  by  the  wallpaper 
in  her  room”  (2),  epitomizes  the  furniture-  and  object-crazed  characters  of  this 
period,  who  ultimately  convince  readers  that  there  is  indeed  a lot  at  stake  in 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  389-398. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


390 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


their  tables  and  chairs.  No  more  than  a cursory  look  at  the  cultural  and  lite- 
rary studies  of  this  time  reveals  that  domesticity  and  interior  decoration  were 
widespread  topics  of  inquiry.  Generally  speaking,  however,  studies  on  the 
interiors  of  dwellings  immediately  focus  on  the  rising  exchange  economy,  the 
growing  capitalist  and  mass  production  of  commodities,  and  the  increasing 
fascination  with  material  culture  and  fetishism,  concluding  that  the  cultural 
obsession  with  interiors  is  simply  a byproduct  of  these  characteristically  bour- 
geois phenomena.  My  study  of  interiors  in  the  work  of  Machado  de  Assis,  E^a 
de  Queiros,  and  Leopoldo  Alas’  has  led  me  to  discover  that  the  intricate  pri- 
vate settings  that  turn  up  in  fiction  time  and  again  do  a lot  more  than  mirror 
or  satirize  social  norms.  Beyond  serving  the  novel  thematically  the  interior  is 
a fundamental  formal  component  indicating  larger  ontological  and  cultural 
changes.  This  topos  reveals  that  specific  philosophical  and  social  transforma- 
tions, which  take  place  at  this  time  and  rely  on  our  sense  of  inhabiting  space, 
are  intertwined  with  the  development  of  narrative. 

In  other  words,  interiors  have  meta-fictional  and  metaphysical  qualities. 
Furnishing,  designing,  and  inhabiting  an  interior  setting  become  activities 
akin  to  the  writing  of  narrative.  It  is  only  since  the  nineteenth  century,  when 
important  developments  in  the  culture  of  the  interior  took  place,  that  such  an 
analogy  between  novelistic  endeavors  and  the  arrangement  of  interiors  begins 
to  emerge.  To  give  two  emblematic  examples:  Edgar  Allan  Poe  writes  an  essay 
in  1 840  entitled  “The  Philosophy  of  Furniture”  in  which  it  becomes  clear  that 
Poe  is  not  only,  as  Walter  Benjamin  observes,  the  first  physiognomist  of  the 
domestic  interior,  but  also  one  of  the  earliest  writers  to  give  furnishings  and 
the  enclosed  setting  a narrative  life  of  their  own.  Edith  Wharton’s  1897  The 
Decoration  of  Houses  is  widely  accepted  as  one  of  the  initial  and  most  influen- 
tial doctrines  on  interior  design  as  we  conceive  of  it  today.  This  ground- 
breaking architectural  treatise,  however,  can  also  be  read  as  a narrative  poetics 
in  the  sense  that  Wharton  connects  the  writer’s  task  to  that  of  the  decorator’s. 
Both  Poe  and  Wharton  imply  that  in  rooms  as  in  fiction  ornament  is  not 
independent  of  structure.  While  these  nineteenth-century  writers  begin  to 
reassess  the  qLialities  of  space,  twentieth-century  philosophical  thought  ques- 
tions how  interior  dwelling  enlightens  our  understanding  of  the  workings  of 
the  imagination  and  how  our  ontological  situation  relates  to  inhabiting  space. 
In  his  phenomenology  of  the  domestic  shelter,  Gaston  Bachelard  shows  how 
a philosophy  of  the  imagination  or  of  the  poetic  is  necessarily  also  a poetics  of 
space.  As  Diana  Fuss  explains  in  The  Sense  of  an  Interior,  if  Bachelard  sees  in 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


391 


a house  a poem,  Martin  Heidegger  reads  poetry  as  a special  kind  of  building 
(4).  Heidegger,  in  his  essay  “Poetically  Man  Dwells,”  and  to  a certain  degree 
in  his  major  work.  Being  and  Time,  reads  human  dwelling  as  a primordial 
testament  to  human  existence  and  to  the  nature  of  the  poetic  imagination.  In 
other  words,  to  be  is  also  to  inhabit,  and  to  inhabit  is  to  narrate  or  to  imagine. 
As  Walter  Benjamin  famously  explains  in  The  Arcades  Project,  the  “phantas- 
magorias of  the  interior”  become  the  condition  of  nineteenth-century  exis- 
tence and  this  illusory  interior  begins  to  define  modernity  (9).  The  attention 
nineteenth-century  fiction  pays  to  interiors  anticipates  in  important  ways  the 
fascination  with  interior  life  so  prevalent  in  twentieth-century  philosophical 
thought  and  modernist  narrative. 

Most  critics  agree  that  Machado  de  Assis  is  a transitional  figure  who,  while 
writing  primarily  in  the  nineteenth  century,  anticipates  twentieth-century 
modernity  on  the  levels  of  both  content  and  form.  So  it  is  not  surprising  to 
discover  that  he  too  cultivates  a sense  of  interior  space  throughout  his  life  that 
affects  his  philosophical  views  of  the  world  and  his  understanding  of  writing. 
Machado  develops  in  his  narrative  a discourse  of  interior  settings  and  their 
content  that  inquires  about  what  it  means  to  inhabit  space  and  to  have  space 
inhabit  the  novel.  But  Machado’s  own  experience  with  rooms,  furnishings, 
and  objects  also  seem  to  suggest  that  dwelling  revealed  something  to  him 
about  the  problematic  mode  of  both  existence  and  poetics.  Thus,  in  this  essay 
I would  like  to  take  a brief  look  at  the  importance  Machado  attributes  to  inte- 
rior space  in  his  own  relation  to  private  life,  and  highlight  what  importance 
this  has  in  his  writing.^ 

Rio  de  Janeiro  is  the  predominant  setting  for  Machado  de  Assis’s  (1839- 
1908)  fiction  and  life,  although  he  moved  a significant  amount  within  the 
capital  of  the  Brazilian  empire.^  Machado’s  father,  a mulatto  artisan,  and 
his  working-class  Azorean-born  mother  were  dependents  or  agregados  of  a 
wealthy  family  that  owned  most  of  Livramento  Hill.  The  property’s  owner, 
Maria  Jose  de  Mendon^a  Barroso  Pereira,  was  also  Machado’s  godmother, 
and  between  his  family’s  poorer  dwellings  and  the  wealth  and  refinement 
of  his  protector’s  home,  the  writer  probably  experienced  vastly  contrasting 
interior  settings  as  a young  boy.“^  An  early  and  successful  career  in  the  print- 
ing, publishing,  and  journalistic  worlds  led  to  his  constantly  relocating  as 
his  social  status  improved.  In  the  1860s,  already  a respected  journalist,  critic, 
and  poet,  Machado  lived  with  his  Portuguese  colleague  Francisco  Ramos  Paz, 
of  whose  extensive  library  he  partook.^  He  married  the  sister  of  a Portuguese 


ESTELA  VIEIRA 


392 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


friend  and  poet  in  1869,  and  with  Carolina  Augusta  Xavier  de  Novais  lived 
in  various  middle-class  homes  in  the  center  of  town  until  finally  settling  in 
a chalet  on  Rua  Cosme  Velho,  number  18.^  Most  critics  and  biographers 
consider  Cosme  Velho  the  main  domestic  space  that  encompasses  Machado’s 
private  life,  habits,  and  thoughts,  and  although  the  building  itself  has  not 
survived,  the  house  remains  part  of  Brazil’s  cultural  patrimony  since  many  of 
its  significant  contents  are  today  museum  pieces. 

A 1997  protocol  enlarged  the  Brazilian  Academy  of  Letters’  original  col- 
lection of  Machado’s  belongings,  books,  and  writing  desk  with  other  furniture 
and  objects  that  originally  belonged  to  Machado  and  Carolina.  The  exhibi- 
tion, entitled  “Cosme  Velho,  18,”  displays  a large  part  of  the  interior  contents 
of  the  couple’s  former  home;  it  houses  furniture,  books,  and  decorative  objects, 
and  attempts  to  recreate  the  author’s  interior  ambience,  drawing  one  closer 
to  Machado’s  material  surroundings.  The  study  Rua  Cosme  Velho,  18  provides 
historical  background  for  the  various  furnishings  and  details  the  efforts  in- 
volved in  their  restoration.  According  to  this  study,  most  of  Machado’s  furni- 
ture adheres  to  the  tendency  of  the  time  to  reproduce  French  styles  in  national 
factories,  to  adopt  what  the  authors  call  “uma  conduta  sobretudo  imitativa,  e 
nao  criadora”  (40).  Curiously,  Machado  expresses  much  more  confidence  in 
the  national  production  of  furniture  than  do  the  authors  of  this  study.  They 
quote  an  August  16,  1895  chronicle  where  Machado  is  clearly  enthusiastic: 

As  nossas  grandes  marcenarias  estao  cheias  de  moveis  ricos,  varies  de  gosto;  nao  ha 
so  cadeiras,  mesas,  camas,  mas  toda  sorte  de  trastes  de  adorno,  fielmente  copiados 
dos  moveis  Franceses,  alguns  de  nome  original,  o bijou  de  salon,  por  exemplo,  outros 
em  lingua  hibrida,  como  o ^01x2.- bibelots.  Entra-se  nos  grandes  depositos,  fica-se  des- 
lumbrado  pela  perfei^ao  da  obra,  pela  riqueza  da  materia,  pela  beleza  da  forma.  (39) 

Machado  is  impressed  by  the  formal  beauty  of  the  national  furniture  pro- 
duction, and  by  its  ability  to  inspire  new  linguistic  modes.  Another  striking 
detail  in  this  study  concerns  the  fact  that  the  couple’s  matrimonial  bed  is  an 
exception  to  the  imitative  norm  since  it  is  an  original  piece  imported  from 
England.  Choosing  such  a high-quality  intimate  furnishing  seems  not  only  to 
reinforce  the  closeness  of  the  couple  but  also  to  highlight  certain  qualities  that 
Machado  and  Carolina  gave  precedence  to  when  it  came  to  their  interior. 

The  way  Machado  relates  to  things  and  places  explains  how  homes  become 
such  dominant  leitmotifs  in  his  fiction,  and  why  he  calls  a house  a symbol 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


393 


of  his  life  experience  and  turns  it  into  a kind  of  fictional  theater/  Luciano 
Trigo  claims  that  Machado  and  his  wife  “iam  mudando  de  casa  a medida  que 
Machado  avan^ava  na  carreira  burocratica”  (21)  and,  on  one  level,  the  fre- 
quent relocating  suggests  how  social  class  is  inevitably  implied  in  dwelling.  But 
Machado  always  understood  the  association  between  interiors  and  social  status 
ironically.  One  of  his  wry  journalistic  chronicles  begins,  “Fui  ontem  visitar  um 
amigo  velho,  Fulano  Publico,  e achei-o  acabando  de  almo9ar. ...  A casa  em  que 
mora,  e um  resumo  de  todas  as  habita^oes,  desde  o palacio  ate  o corti^o,  para 
exprimir — creio  eu — que  ele  e o complexo  de  todas  as  classes  socials”  (3:  449). 
Despite  the  sarcasm,  it  becomes  clear  that  for  Machado,  the  home  reflects  an 
individual’s  values  and  contradictions,  including  his  own.  Although  Francisca 
de  Basto  Cordeiro’s  personal  account  of  her  experience  with  the  couple  lacks 
accuracy  and  is  at  times  biased,  the  testimonial  does  include  two  important 
portraits  of  the  couple’s  interiors.  The  first  describes  an  apparently  barren  and 
modest  home  on  the  Rua  do  Catete  and  seems  to  contrast  the  more  luxurious 
setting  at  Cosme  Velho.  Despite  Cordeiro’s  efforts  to  draw  distinctions,  the 
details  actually  reveal  that  the  furniture  mostly  stayed  the  same.^  Liicia  Miguel 
Pereira  gives  a more  modest  description  of  Cosme  Velho: 

A casa  seria  mais  confortavel  do  que  a dos  primeiros  anos  do  casamento,  com  duas 

criadas,  moveis  simples  e comodos,  um  ou  outro  quadro,  bons  livros,  algumas 

edi^oes  de  luxo,  mas  o ambiente  era  o mesmo,  de  aconchego  e de  simplicidade 

digna.  Tudo  tranqiiilo,  decente  e fino.  (183) 

Machado  valued  above  all  the  emotional  protection  that  his  home  and  wife 
provided,  for  the  two  were  intertwined  for  him.  And  in  fact  Carolina  devoted 
herself  extensively  to  the  enrichment  of  their  interior  space.  Cordeiro  refers  to 
Carolina’s  “personalidade  arti'stica”  and  “espirito  engenhoso”  in  describing  her 
commitment  to  interior  decor,  and  from  Cordeiro’s  descriptions  and  details, 
it  is  probable  that  Carolina  would  have  designed  her  own  patterns  and  some 
furniture  pieces  (31).  Carolina  developed  an  interest  in  the  arts  and  crafts  and 
Machado  in  acquiring  and  collecting  meaningful  objects  and  artworks.  This 
combines  with  the  couple’s  carefully  considered  design  of  the  floor  plan  with 
which  they  sought  to  create  a conscientious  sense  of  their  space,  so  that — more 
than  their  social  progression — consistent  aesthetic  concerns  impacted  their 
interior  improvements.  Machado’s  study  was  purposely  isolated  from  the  rest 
of  the  house  and  from  the  exterior  world.  Cordeiro  explains  that  in  it  “A  porta. 


ESTELA  VIEIRA 


394 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


para  a varanda,  fora  inutilizada  por  urn  armario  envidra<;ado”  (33).  The  brighdy 
lit  and  cheerhilly  adorned  sleeping  quarters,  on  the  other  hand,  opened  up  on 
the  garden,  and  the  fabrics  and  upholstery  are  full  of  representations  of  nature. 
The  modern  individual  dwells  and  fashions  his  or  her  subjectivity  in  a designed 
space  that  at  the  same  time  both  wards  off  and  opens  onto  the  world.  Machado 
is  able  to  bring  the  world  inside  his  private  spaces,  transforming  them  into  the 
protected  center  of  his  identity  and  imagination. 

With  Carolina’s  death,  Machado’s  sense  of  the  space  they  inhabited  together 
intensifies.  Cordeiro  tells  us  that  toward  the  end  of  his  life,  Machado  preferred  to 
sleep  in  Carolina’s  sewing  room,  where  he  would  have  felt  closer  to  her  creative 
environment.  The  creative  fictional  process,  which  is  present  in  both  Carolina’s 
crafts  and  in  Machado’s  writings,  thus  stands  for  Machado  as  a synecdoche  for  the 
way  in  which  the  modern  world  is  inhabited.  Furthermore,  Machado  shared  with 
his  closest  friends  some  of  his  melancholy  and  ideas  about  the  connection  between 
his  interior  and  the  memory  of  his  wife.  In  a letter  thanking  Joaquim  Nabuco 
for  his  condolences,  Machado  writes:  “Aqui  me  fico,  por  ora  na  mesma  casa,  no 
mesmo  aposento,  com  os  mesmos  adornos  sens.  Tudo  me  lembra  a minha  meiga 
Carolina”  (3:  1071).  In  a response  to  Jose  Ven'ssimo’s  positive  reviews  of  Esau  e 
Jaco  (1904)  he  explains:  “Ca  vai  o volume  para  o pequeno  movel  onde  guardo 
uma  parte  das  lembran^as  dela”  (3:  1073).  According  to  Pereira,  this  small  piece 
of  furniture,  located  by  Machado’s  bedside,  contained  the  couple’s  personal  cor- 
respondence (later  burned)  and  Carolina’s  jewelry  and  other  personal  items  worn 
on  her  wedding  day.  Just  as  many  of  his  characters  showcased  mementos,  relics, 
and  symbolic  objects,  Machado  also  collected  and  displayed  certain  meaning- 
ful pieces.  The  famous  gift  from  Joaquim  Nabuco,  “o  galho  do  carvalho  de 
Tasso,”  is  clearly  a prized  possession.  He  writes  to  Nabuco:  “O  proprio  galho, 
com  a sua  carta  ao  Gra^a,  ja  os  tenho  na  minha  sala,  em  caixa”  (3:  1075). 

Machado’s  involvement  with  the  Academy  of  Letters  also  demonstrates 
how  important  the  inhabiting  of  an  interior  is  for  the  development  of  a mean- 
ingful ideal.  The  first  president  of  the  Brazilian  Academy  of  Letters,  Machado 
had  the  difficult  task  of  finding  a house  for  the  institution.  He  wanted  to 
create  an  organization  to  advance  a national  literature  but  also  to  build  a mee- 
ting space  for  the  Brazilian  intelligentsia.  The  first  chapter  of  Josue  Montello’s 
study  of  Machado’s  work  in  the  Academy  is  very  appropriately  titled  “A  casa 
de  Machado  de  Assis.”  Machado  is  evidently  enthusiastic  and  good-humored 
with  respect  to  this  undertaking:  he  writes  to  Joaquim  Nabuco,  “A  Academia 
vai  continuar  os  seus  trabalhos,  agora  mais  assidua,  desde  que  tern  casa  e 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  395 

moveis”  (3:  1075).  The  first  temporary  setting  that  Machado  finds  for  the 
Academy  is  a shared  space  with  the  Academy  of  Medicine: 


Temos  enfim  uma  sala  no  Pedagogium  [...].  Fui  ver  a sala,  e vasta,  tern  mobilia  e 
serve  bem  aos  nossos  trabalhos.  Naturalmente,  os  retratos  e bustos  que  la  estao  sao 
de  medicos,  mas  nos  ainda  os  nao  temos  de  nossa  gente,  e aqueles,  ate  porque  sao 
defuntos,  nao  nos  porao  fora.  Entendi-me  tambem  para  obtermos  um  lugar  em 
que  possamos  ter  mesa  e armario  para  guarda  dos  nossos  papeis  e livros.  (3:  1050) 

Like  his  own  characters,  Machado  also  reads  and  transforms  the  space  around 
him,  bringing  to  life  inanimate  portraits  and  busts  of  dead  illustrious  men. 

These  penetrating  ideas  about  objects  and  spaces  resurface  in  Machado’s 
evolving  concept  of  narrative  creation  and  its  connection  to  national  iden- 
tity. What  Machado  called  a “certo  sentimento  I'ntimo”  in  his  infamous  1873 
essay  is  represented  in  his  concept  of  interior  space  (3:  804).^  Anticipating  the 
thoughts  of  Walter  Benjamin,  who  wrote  that  the  private  individual  brings 
together  “remote  locales  and  memories  of  the  past”  (19)  and  “the  far  away 
and  the  long  ago”  (9),  Machado  too  claimed  that  the  author  can  speak  of 
“assuntos  remotos  no  tempo  e no  espa^o”  and  be  Brazilian  in  one’s  inner  self 
(3:  804).  Roberto  Schwarz  argues  convincingly  that  Machado  was  able  to 
observe  and  represent  the  complexities  of  Brazilian  society  once  he  achieved 
a certain  social  status.^®  In  other  words,  once  he  had  his  own  private  space, 
or  his  own  fictional  theater,  he  could  in  his  writing  more  effectively  compose, 
destroy,  and  build  up  again  different  social  and  fictional  spaces. 

Machado  interiorizes  a sense  of  nationality  while  developing  an  aesthetic 
sensibility  of  his  private  self  The  interior  world  provides  the  intellectual  free- 
dom that  motivates  him  to  experiment  technically  and  allows  his  philosophi- 
cal audacity.  By  enclosing  himself  in  his  study  behind  the  glass  armoire  full 
of  books,  Machado  ironically  feels  freer  to  reach  his  inner  mind  and  sense  of 
what  to  him  defines  his  nation.  This  turning  inward  is  already  evident  in  his 
early  writing.  Many  of  his  first-person-narrated  chronicles  begin  by  describing 
the  comfort,  silence,  and  particularities  of  a private  salon  or  study,  which  then 
inspires  philosophical  reflection  or  debate  with  a similarly  comfortably  seated 
interlocutor.  In  his  novels  it  becomes  increasingly  evident  how  Machado  relies 
on  the  house,  the  drawing  room,  and  the  private  quarters  as  a rhetorical  tool 
not  only  to  explore  the  interior  lives  of  his  characters  but  also  to  frame  many 
of  his  narratives’  thematic  concerns. 


ESTELA  VIEIRA 


396 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


The  interior  is  also  an  important  topos  in  a number  of  short  stories.  To 
conclude  I would  like  to  take  as  an  example,  D.  Concei^ao  from  “Missa  do 
Galo.”  Her  relation  to  her  interior  space  brings  out  important  conflicts  that 
she  f-aces  with  hersefl  and  others.  Often  in  Machado  interiors  reveal  the  frus- 
tration ot  the  f-emale  character,  yet  they  also  demonstrate  the  challenges  of  the 
writer.  Not  unlike  the  novels,  Machado’s  short  stories  focus  on  the  writing 
ol  fiction  and  become  meta-literary  constructions  that  depend  formally  on 
interior  spaces.  For  example,  the  nocturnal  domestic  setting  that  structures 
“Missa  do  Galo”  1-unctions  to  seduce  both  the  narrator  and  the  reader.  The 
whole  narrative  consists  of  a conversation  the  first-person  narrator  remembers 
having  had  years  ago  with  his  hostess,  D.  Concei9ao,  in  her  sala  de  visitas.  In 
a middle-class  home  such  as  this  one  on  the  Rua  do  Senado,  the  sala  da  frente 
is  typically  the  best  situated  and  most  elaborately  decorated  room.  Here  is 
where  the  narrator  waits  for  midnight  mass,  reading  at  a table  in  the  center 
of  the  room  until  he  is  interrupted  by  D.  Concei^ao.  The  reader  supposes 
that  D.  Concei(;ao  is  attempting  to  seduce  Sr.  Nogueira  because  of  the  way 
she  sensually  interacts  with  the  room’s  furnishings.  Trying  to  get  closer  to  the 
narrator,  D.  Concei^ao  moves  from  one  piece  of  furniture  to  another,  using 
her  body  to  touch  different  objects. 

It  is  also  from  this  interior  movement  that  the  reader  probes  the  mind  of 
D.  Concei^ao.  Once  she  sits  in  the  chair  where  the  narrator  originally  sat  her 
thoughts  take  a turn.  The  narrator  is  forced  to  confer  center  stage  to  the  female 
protagonist.  From  her  position,  D.  Concei^ao  looks  into  a mirror  that  stands 
above  the  narrator.  Therefore,  she  sees  the  narrator  and  herself  as  one.  The  true 
narrator  of  the  story,  then,  D.  Conceigao  begins  to  reflect  on  how  her  life  with 
an  unfaithful  husband  is  symbolically  represented  by  what  surrounds  and  faces 
her.  She  attempts  to  indirectly  communicate  her  feelings  to  Sr.  Nogueira  and 
the  reader  by  discussing  the  two  paintings  that  hang  over  the  canape  and  then 
deliberating  on  whether  or  not  to  get  new  wallpaper.  D.  Concei^ao’s  impatience 
and  anxieties  surface  in  her  engagement  with  her  interior,  prompting  her  not 
only  to  seduce  the  apparently  unaware  and  unresponsive  narrator  but  also  to 
self-reflect.  The  narrator  seems  blind  to  this  metaphoric  interior  and  exercise 
that  clearly  stands  for  both  D.  Concei^ao’s  desires  and  the  story  itself  The  short 
story,  like  D.  Concei^ao,  is  also  self  reflective,  finding  its  real  source  in  the 
woman  and  her  story.  This  highly  complex  text,  whose  vocabulary  reinforces  a 
sense  of  confinement,  constructs  a dreamy  atmosphere,  and  mixes  erotic  sym- 
bols with  religion  and  the  imagination,  is  an  excellent  example  of  how  Machado 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


397 


begins  to  develop  narrators  that  inevitably  lose  control  of  their  narration  and 
misread  the  intentions  of  other  characters.  The  narrator  unwittingly  gives 
prominence  to  D.  Concei^ao  and  her  interior  setting. 

Machado  understood,  as  contemporary  readers  should  as  well,  that  trac- 
ing the  thresholds  and  configurations  of  the  novelistic  abode  equates  to  the 
reading  of  our  time.  His  works  invent  and  shape  complex  relations  between 
an  inner  and  an  outer  dimension  of  space  that  constitutes  the  core  of  their 
narrative  world-making.  What  gains  visibility  in  his  writing  is  the  existential 
shift  of  modern  subjects  towards  the  cultivation  of  the  interior.  The  interior 
realm  inspires  the  development  of  his  fictional  worlds  and  serves  the  author  as 
a point  of  departure  for  his  imaginative  spaces,  while  also  drawing  him  closer 
to  his  inner  self,  and  inspiring  the  critical  questions  that  governed  his  view  of 
reality  and  his  sense  of  history  and  cultural  identity. 


Notes 

' See  Interiors  and  Narrative,  my  forthcoming  book  on  these  three  figures  from  Bucknell 
University  Press. 

^ For  more  on  this  topic,  see  the  introduction  to  my  forthcoming  book. 

^ Machado  claims  frequently  in  his  correspondence  and  writings  that  he  was  destined  to  live 
and  die  in,  and  never  travel  far  from,  Rio  de  Janeiro.  In  1897  he  writes  to  Jose  Verissimo:  “Eu 
sou  um  peco  fruto  da  capital,  onde  nasci,  vivo  e creio  que  hei  de  morrer,  nao  indo  ao  interior 
senao  por  acaso  e de  relampago”  (3:  1042). 

^ See  Jean-Michel  Massa’s  biography  for  Machado’s  early  years. 

^ According  to  Lucia  Miguel  Pereira’s  biographical  study,  Machado  de  Assis.  Estudo  critico  e 
biogrdfico,  Machado  most  likely  lived  with  Ramos  Paz  between  1860  and  1869. 

^ The  couple  first  lives  in  Rua  dos  Andradas  1 19  in  the  center  of  town  until  1873.  Then  for 
shorter  periods  from  1873  to  1874  on  Rua  Santa  Luzia  54,  on  a second  floor  of  Rua  da  Lapa  96 
from  1874  to  1875,  and  from  1875  to  1878  at  the  Rua  das  Laranjeiras  4.  They  move  to  Rua  do 
Catete  206  in  1878,  the  year  during  which  they  spend  three  months  in  Nova  Friburgo,  and  live 
there  until  1883  before  moving  to  Cosme  Velho. 

^ See  Beatriz  Berrini’s  “A  casa:  uma  em  Machado,  outra  em  E^a.” 

^ Cordeiro’s  brief  description  begins:  “Na  sala  da  frente,  havia  apenas  uma  modesta  mobilia 
de  palhinha  (sofa,  2 cadeiras  de  bra(;o  e outras  comuns),  estantes  de  ferro  com  livros  e uma 
escrivaninha  onde  papeis  e jornais  se  amontoavam.  As  paredes,  nuas.  Nada  embelezava  o 
modesto  ambiente  onde  a instavel  felicidade  elegera  domidlio”  (20).  It  is  important  to  note 
that  when  the  couple  moved  to  the  Catete  they  were  already  married  nine  years,  which  would 
seem  to  contradict  Cordeiro’s  reference  to  an  “instavel  felicidade.”  Cordeiro  provides  a lengthy 
description  of  the  interior  of  Cosme  Velho  (31-33). 

^ The  essay  is  entitled  “Noti'cia  da  atual  literatura  brasileira:  instinto  de  nacionalidade.” 
Roberto  Schwarz  develops  these  ideas  in  his  essay  “Duas  notas  sobre  Machado  de  Assis.” 


ESTELA  VIEIRA 


398 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Works  Cited 

Assis,  Joaquim  Maria  Machado  de.  Obras  completas.  3 vols.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Aguilar,  1962.  Print. 

Bachelard,  Gaston.  The  Poetics  of  Space.  Translated  by  Maria  Jolas.  Boston:  Beacon  Press,  1994. 
Print. 

Benjamin,  Walter.  The  Arcades  Project.  Translated  by  Howard  Eiland  and  Kevin  McLaughlin. 
Cambridge,  MA:  Belknap  Press  of  Harvard  UP,  1999.  Print. 

Berrini,  Beatriz.  “A  casa:  uma  em  Machado,  outra  em  E^a.”  Recortes  machadianos.  Ed.  Ana  Salles 
Mariano  and  Maria  Rosa  Duarte  de  Oliveira.  Sao  Paulo:  EDUC,  2003.  277-295.  Print. 

Cordeiro,  Francisca  de  Basto.  Machado  de  Assis  na  intimidade.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Pongetti,  1965. 
Print. 

Fuss,  Diana.  The  Sense  of  an  Interior:  Four  Writers  and  the  Rooms  that  Shaped  Them.  New  York: 
Routledge,  2004.  Print. 

Heidegger,  Martin.  “Poetically  Man  Dwells.”  Poetry,  Language,  Thought.  Trans.  Albert 
Hofstadter.  New  York:  Harper  Collins,  1971.  Print. 

James,  Henry.  The  Spoils  of  Poynton.  Ed.  David  Lodge.  Middlesex,  UK:  Penguin,  1987.  Print. 
Massa,  Jean-Michel.  A juventude  de  Machado  de  Assis  (1839—1870).  Trans.  Marco  Aurelio  de 
Moura  Matos.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Civilizagao  Brasileira,  1971.  Print. 

Pereira,  Liicia  Miguel.  Machado  de  Assis.  Estudo  critico  e biogrdfico.  5th  ed.  Rio  de  Janeiro:  Jose 
Olympio,  1955.  Print. 

Poe,  Edgar  Allan.  “The  Philosophy  of  Furniture.”  The  Unabridged  Edgar  Allan  Poe.  Philadelphia: 
Running  Press,  1983.  641-646.  Print. 

Rua  Cosme  Velho,  18:  relato  de  restauro  do  mobilidrio  de  Machado  de  Assis.  Rio  de  Janeiro: 
Academia  Brasileira  de  Letras,  1998.  Print. 

Schwarz,  Roberto.  “Duas  notas  sobre  Machado  de  Assis.”  Que  horas  sdol  Ensaios.  Sao  Paulo: 
Companhia  das  Letras,  1987.  Print. 

Trigo,  Luciano.  Viajante  imovel.  Machado  de  Assis  e o Rio  de  Janeiro  de  seu  tempo.  Rio  de  Janeiro: 
Record,  2001.  Print. 

Wharton,  Edith,  and  Ogden  Codman,  Jr.  The  Decoration  of  Houses.  New  York:  W.  W.  Norton, 
1997.  Print. 


Estela  Vieira  is  assistant  professor  of  Portuguese  and  Spanish  at  Indiana  University, 
Bloomington.  Her  forthcoming  book.  Interiors  and  Narrative,  studies  the  spatial  poetics  of 
Machado  de  Assis,  E^a  de  Queiros,  and  Leopoldo  Alas.  She  has  published  on  varied  topics 
and  authors  such  as  Fernando  Pessoa,  E^a  de  Queiros,  and  the  Lisbon  Earthquake,  and 
works  comparatively  on  Lusophone  and  Hispanic  literatures  and  cultures.  Email:  evieira@ 
indiana.edu 


Photobook  of  the  City:  Eduardo  Gageiro's  Lisboa 
no  cais  da  memoria 


Paul  Melo  e Castro 


Abstract.  In  this  article  I examine  the  representation  that  Eduardo 
Gageiro’s  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria  makes  of  Salazarist  Lisbon  in  the 
post-war  period  up  until  the  Carnation  Revolution.  I look  at  how  the 
works  anchorage  and  its  obvious  generic  affiliation  as  humanistic  street 
photography  set  up  a particular  reading  of  the  work  for  the  reader.  I then 
consider  how  the  text’s  photobook  format  works  to  convey  the  sorts  of 
meanings  associated  with  this  type  of  photography  and  creates  a city-like 
space  in  which  the  reader  can  follow  the  footsteps  of  the  flaneur/street 
photographer  into  the  historical  space  and  time  in  question. 


Published  in  2003,  Eduardo  Gageiro’s  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria  re-groups 
photographs  of  the  Portuguese  capital  taken  by  the  Portuguese  photographer 
between  1957  and  1974,  dating  in  the  main  from  the  first  half  of  this  period. 
Perhaps  Portugal’s  foremost  photojournalist,  Gageiro  has  produced  many 
photobooks,  often  in  collaboration  with  important  Portuguese  writers.  He 
worked  on  Gente  with  Jose  Cardoso  Pires  (whose  introduction  to  this  work 
provides  a perceptive  albeit  short  analysis  of  Gageiro’s  style),  Lisboa  operdria 
with  David  Mourao-Ferreira,  and  Olhares  With.  Antonio  Lobo  Antunes,  just 
to  name  those  texts  whose  thematics  dovetail  with  the  work  under  analysis 
here.  Indeed,  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria  contains  images  extracted  from  all  of 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  399-407. 

© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


400 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


these  previous  works,  and  performs  an  anthological  function  in  relation  to 
Gageiro’s  work  concerning  Lisbon. 

The  images  in  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria  show  the  enmeshment  of  ordi- 
nary people  in  the  environment  of^  history.  Synthesised  into  a sequence  of 
photographs,  the  photobook  tells  the  story  of  the  city  in  the  post-war  period; 
there  is,  however,  no  unbroken  linear  chronology  or  topology.  Instead,  the 
images  are  organised  into  thematic  strands,  though  there  are  short  sequences 
dealing  with  discreet  events.  The  book  starts  with  two  prefatory  texts,  one  by 
a former  president  of  Portugal,  Jorge  Sampaio,  and  one  by  journalist  Antonio 
Valdemar  (a  democratically  elected  head  of  state  and  an  independent  journal- 
ist both  being  eloquent  symbols  of  the  changes  in  the  country  since  the  period 
Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria  represents).  In  the  first  Sampaio  declares  that  the 
work  “e  um  depoimento,  um  testemunho,  um  documento  e uma  memoria. 
Por  ele  passam  o tempo  individual  e o tempo  colectivo,  o tempo  da  alegria  e 
o tempo  da  tisteza,  o tempo  da  opressao  e o tempo  da  liberdade”  (n.  pag.).  In 
the  second  Valdemar  states  “a  figura  humana  voltou  a ser  o elemento  nuclear 
da  objectiva  atenta  de  Eduardo  Gageiro”  and  that  the  book  “representa  uma 
interpela^ao  e demincia  do  quotidiano”  (n.  pag.). 

For  the  ensuing  photographs  these  texts  serve  as  what  Roland  Barthes 
termed  anchorage  (39).  This  term  refers  to  textual  material  that  acts  as  a sign- 
post for  the  reading  of  images.  Sampaio’s  text,  with  its  conflation  of  individual 
experience  and  collective  history,  of  happiness  and  sorrow,  indicating  a con- 
flicting historiography  of  the  period,  is  one  such  signpost.  Valdemar’s  noting 
of  the  human  and  everyday  as  foci  is  another.  Together  these  two  pieces  point 
us  towards  a reading  of  the  photobook  as  representing  a city  where  human 
life,  though  fettered,  flourished  nonetheless  in  a period  of  political  inertia  and 
great  social  and  environmental  change. 

For  this  meaning  to  be  enabled,  however,  these  signposts  must  be  followed 
by  a corresponding  interpretation  on  the  reader’s  part.  I want  to  look  at  how 
the  photographs — considered  in  the  light  of  genre  affiliation  and  expecta- 
tions and  the  way  the  images  are  concatenated  into  a photobook — enable  the 
interpretation  ordained  in  their  anchorage.  The  images  in  Lisboa  no  cais  da 
memoria  fit  the  genre  of  street  photography,  the  vast  majority  of  the  pictures 
having  been  taken  in  the  public  space  of  the  city.  Westerbeck  and  Meyero- 
witz  characterise  street  photography  as  centring  around  “candid  pictures  of 
everyday  life”  based  on  “errant  details,  chance  juxtapositions,  odd  non  sequi- 
tors,  peculiarities  of  scale  and  the  quirkiness  of  life  in  the  street”  (34).  It  is 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  401 

photography  at  street  level,  on  the  part  of  a pedestrian,  attentive  to  the  life 
and  emotions  of  the  people  encountered  whilst  crossing  the  city.  This  being 
so,  we  can  construe  Gageiro’s  photobook  as  the  record  of  an  individual  trajec- 
tory through  the  collective  time  and  space  of  the  Salazar-era  city.  Gageiro’s 
photographs  are  identified  and  identifiable  as  taken  in  particular  places  and 
in  particular  years,  ranging  in  space  from  the  traditional  dockside  neighbour- 
hoods to  the  incipient  urban  sprawl  to  the  north  and  west  of  the  city  and  in 
time  from  the  impoverished  city  in  the  1960s  pulled  apart  by  emigration  and 
the  colonial  wars  to  the  human  landslide  of  liberation  in  1974. 

Westerbeck  and  Meyerowitz  go  on  to  characterise  street  photographers  as 
bystanders 'who,  in  their  understanding,  are  “people  who  come  to  bear  witness. 

They  are  those  who  are  there  expressly  for  the  purposes  of  making  observa- 
tions, which  in  this  context  is  almost  the  same  thing  as  making  observances, 
as  if  taking  the  photograph  were  a ritual  fulfilment  of  a moral  obligation” 

(34).  If  we  accept  this  engagement  as  an  implication  of  the  genre,  the  fact 
that  the  images  contained  in  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memdria  are  evidently  street 
photography  implies  a certain  humanistic  attitude  to  what  is  represented,  one 
similar  to  the  position  described  in  Sampaio’s  prefatory  statement. 

As  well  as  having  an  affiliation  with  a certain  genre  of  photograph-taking, 

Lisboa  no  cais  da  memdria  can  also  be  classified  according  to  the  format  in 
which  its  photographs  are  presented,  a factor  that  is  just  as  important  as  genre 
in  analysing  how  Gageiro’s  work  represents  the  city.  Rather  than  being  dis- 
played in  a studio  exhibition  or  catalogue,  Gageiro’s  photos  are  arranged  in  a 
photobook,  which  can  be  defined  simply  as  a work  in  which  the  primary  mes- 
sage is  created  by  a sequence  oh  photographs.  In  their  history  of  the  photobook, 

Parr  and  Badger  quote  Prinz  as  stating  that  therein  “the  photographs  lose  their 
own  photographic  character  as  things  in  themselves  and  become  parts,  trans- 
lated in  ink,  of  a dramatic  event  called  a “book”  (7).  It  is  in  this  respect  that 
the  photobook  becomes  a historiographical  approach,  by  articulating  histori- 
cal material  to  create  a dramatic  event,  a sort  of  narrative  discourse. 

It  is  a commonplace  that  the  act  of  photography  severs  image  from  space 
and  time.  Eduardo  Gadava  sees  the  image  thus  sundered  as  a citation  of  his- 
tory (xvii).  The  organisation  of  photographs  into  a photobook  has  the  effect 
of  artificially  re-introducing  a potential  time  and  a definite  space,  creating  a 
loose  narrative.  John  Berger  claims  that  “an  instant  photographed  can  only 
acquire  meaning  insofar  as  the  viewer  can  read  into  it  a duration  extending 
beyond  itself”  (89).  Here  this  duration  is  created  by  the  concatenation  of 


PAUL  MELO  E CASTRO 


402 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


images,  using  the  images  to  signify  the  wider  reality  from  which  they  were 
captured:  the  everyday  life  of  a particular  city  during  a certain  period.  Parr 
and  Badger  argtie  that  “in  the  true  photobook  each  picture  may  be  consid- 
ered a sentence,  or  a paragraph,  the  whole  seqtience  the  complete  text”  (7). 

I would  say  that,  just  as  the  photobook  occupies  a grey  area  between  the 
film  and  the  novel,  it  would  perhaps  be  more  accurate  to  see  the  composing 
images  of  the  photobook  as  hovering  somewhere  in  between  the  literary  word 
and  sentence  and  the  cinematic  shot  and  sequence. 

Whilst  events,  people,  and  places  are  depicted,  and  a narrative  created 
through  mise-en-sequence,  there  is,  however,  no  clear  plot.  How  then  does  Lis- 
boa no  cais  da  memorial,  historiography  work?  For  Berger,  “if  photography  does 
narrate,  it  narrates  through  montage,”  going  on  to  suggest  that  the  photobook 
employs  an  Eisensteinian  montage  of  attraction.  This  I argue  is  what  we  can  see 
at  work  within  this  photobook,  the  emotivity  of  the  Eisensteinian  attractions 
sitting  well  with  street  photography  as  I have  described  it.  In  a montage  of 
attraction,  each  image  should  attract  that  which  follows  and  vice-versa.  Berger 
goes  on  to  say  that  “the  energy  of  this  attraction  could  take  the  form  of  a con- 
trast, an  equivalence,  a conflict  or  a recurrence.  In  each  case,  the  cut  becomes 
eloquent  and  functions  like  the  hinge  of  a metaphor”  (287).  Thus,  discrete  ele- 
ments are  stitched  together  to  form  a whole  and  construct  a narration. 

Here  it  is  useful  to  look  at  an  instance  of  montage  in  order  to  see  how  this 
process  functions  in  practice.  The  sequence  in  question  shows  the  5 October 
1960  protests  by  the  M.U.D.  (Movement  for  Democratic  Unity)  against  the 
Salazar  government.  The  first  image  (280)  shows  a group  of  protesters  amassed 
before  a public  building.  The  building  flies  a Portuguese  flag,  shrouded  in 
shade.  Directly  below  it  a member  of  the  crowd  holds  aloft  another  national 
flag,  highlighted  in  brilliant  sunshine.  Two  versions  of  Portugal  are  about  to 
confront  one  another.  The  next  image  (281)  “cuts”  in  closer  (though,  from 
the  background  it  would  appear  that  we  have  moved  to  another  location), 
picking  out  several  members  of  the  throng  who  are  identified  as  key  protago- 
nists in  the  accompanying  caption.  They  are  Arlindo  Vicente,  a member  of 
the  Seara  Nova  group  and  democratic  presidential  candidate  in  1958,  Adao 
e Silva,  a lawyer  from  Lisbon  and  one  of  the  dictatorship’s  staunchest  oppo- 
nents, and  Azevedo  Gomes,  chair  of  the  M.U.D.  Behind  them  an  illuminated 
Portuguese  flag  is  again  brandished  by  an  anonymous  protester. 

The  way  the  next  images  are  linked  is  interesting.  The  following  photo- 
graph (282)  doesn’t  date  from  1960  but  rather  from  1966.  It  depicts  what 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


403 


appears  to  be  a police  parade  through  one  of  Lisbon’s  main  squares.  In  a 
strong  diagonal  stretching  from  the  bottom  left  upwards,  a row  of  uniformed 
policemen  march  imposingly,  each  being  led  by  a police  dog.  The  effect  is 
intimidating,  not  least  because,  in  the  strong  sunlight,  each  policeman’s  eyes 
are  in  shadow  below  the  brim  of  his  helmet.  At  the  far  end  of  their  rank,  peer- 
ing from  the  pavement,  hemmed  in  between  a police  vehicle  and  a prohibitive 
street  sign,  stand  the  public,  constrained  and  cowed.  The  next  image  (283) 
shows  the  protest  march  under  way.  In  contrast  to  the  policemen  in  the  previ- 
ous picture,  the  protestors,  many  of  whom  are  looking  around  them  in  trepi- 
dation, are  assembled  into  a loose  cluster.  Despite  their  evident  nervousness, 
the  illuminated  flag  again  makes  its  appearance  in  the  centre  of  the  image, 
embodying  the  hope  for  positive  change  perhaps.  The  two  sides  literally  meet 
in  the  following  image  (284),  which  shows  a protester  and  a policeman.  The 
protester  rolls  back,  one  arm  raised  as  a shield  whilst  the  officer’s  truncheon 
swoops  down.  The  contrast  between  the  clenched  posture  of  the  policeman 
and  the  supine  position  of  the  protester,  as  well  as  the  obvious  inequality 
between  the  officer’s  official  weapon  and  the  prone  man’s  woeful  shield  tell  us 
all  we  need  to  know  about  the  relationships  enacted  in  this  incident,  as  do  the 
dismayed,  impotent  attitudes  evinced  by  two  onlookers.  The  prepotency  of 
the  state  at  this  juncture  couldn’t  be  clearer. 

Here,  in  the  depiction  of  protest,  power,  and  repression,  there  is  something 
approaching  a plot.  Not  all  the  images  in  the  photobook  entertain  this  type  of 
flowing  relation  between  one  another,  however.  Lisboa  no  cats  da  memdria  is 
divided  up  into  seven  sections,  each  of  which  deals  loosely  with  a theme.  Each 
of  these  sections  is  prefaced  by  an  extract  from  a poem  and  a picture  of  a job- 
bing photographer  taking  portraits  in  the  streets,  symbolising  the  immersion 
of  the  reporter-photographer-^?z^’?^r  into  the  everyday  lives  of  the  people  he 
depicts.  The  first  section  deals  with  a cross-section  of  the  city,  both  topologi- 
cal and  social.  It  introduces  the  reader  to  the  traditional  infrastructure  of  the 
Lisbon  around  the  Castelo  de  Sao  Jorge  and  the  Alfama,  as  well  as  the  new 
Avenidas  Novas  areas  into  which  the  city  expanded  after  the  Second  World  War. 
The  image  on  page  24  shows  a shepherd  and  his  flock  walking  from  left  to  right 
over  rough  ground,  whilst  the  new  urbanisations  of  Areeiro  stretch  out  in  the 
distance.  The  divergence  and  co-existence  of  old  and  new  is  made  patent. 

The  second  strand  concentrates  on  children  and  activities  of  the  street. 
Whilst  the  focus  is  on  the  simple  joys  of  childhood  and  their  picturesque 
aspect,  there  is  a more  sombre  undercurrent  in  these  images.  For  Cardoso 


PAUL  MELO  E CASTRO 


404 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Pires,  all  Gageiro’s  shots  of  children  represent  “a  imagem  da  infancia  trafda” 
{Gente  n.  pag.)  by  the  political  and  social  situation  in  Lisbon.  One  image 
{Lisboa  67)  shows  a young,  brooding  man  cradling  an  infant  whilst  a group 
of  children  and  women  congregate  by  a doorway.  Whilst  we  cannot  read  the 
exact  events  surrounding  the  situation,  consternation  and  what  we  might 
imagine  as  a fear  for  the  baby’s  future  are  clear  on  the  man’s  face.  Another 
image  (70)  shows  a group  of  children  careening  down  a hill  through  a bank 
of  smoke.  The  setting  is  Casal  Ventoso,  traditionally  one  of  the  city’s  most 
impoverished  neighbourhoods.  Whilst  the  children  charge  along  with  a care- 
free air,  the  smoke  could  be  said  to  represent  the  uncertainties  of  their  future. 

The  third  theme  deals  with  the  everyday  life  of  the  city,  the  traditional 
working  life  of  people  that  “mourejam  por  ferias  e por  cidades,  ocupando 
o breve  espa^o  da  patria  que  Ihes  cabe”  (Gente  n.  pag.)  and  the  changes  this 
existence  is  undergoing.  Many  depict  the  traditional  portside  activities  of  the 
city,  to  which  images  of  the  construction  of  the  Ponte  Salazar  are  contrasted. 
Another  image  shows  a small  fishing  boat  against  the  backdrop  of  the  newly 
built  bridge  (Lisboa  107),  contrasting  the  modern  and  the  traditional,  but 
also  highlighting,  via  their  position  mid-river,  the  time  the  fishermen  shown 
still  had  to  wait  before  the  bridge  received  its  current  name,  Ponte  25  de 
Abril.  The  fourth  concentrates  more  closely  on  traditional  life  in  the  streets 
“inland.”  Images  proliferate  of  people  in  the  midst  of  their  routines.  The  fifth 
strand  continues  the  theme  of  the  third  and  fourth,  but  in  a more  quirky  vein, 
depicting,  amongst  other  things,  a great  many  shots  of  people  waiting,  espe- 
cially old  people,  conveying  a feeling  of  historical  inertia.  For  Cardoso  Pires, 
Gageiro  “regista,  sim,  o velho  que  esta  dentro  de  cada  adulto”  (Gente n.  pag.), 
waiting  and  old  age  being  an  indirect  way  to  represent  the  unfortunate  lon- 
gevity of  Salazar’s  premiership.  The  sixth  shows  the  activities  and  pastimes  of 
the  city,  music  and  bars,  bullfighting  and  football,  religious  events  and  proces- 
sions and  provides  a re-working  of  the  way  in  which  these  were  portrayed  at 
the  time  by  the  regime.  Football,  for  example,  is  shown  as  both  a tool  used 
by  the  regime  (255),  with  Salazar  shaking  Eusebio’s  hand  after  the  country’s 
relative  success  in  the  World  Cup  of  1966,  and  as  a potential  locale  for  politi- 
cal mobilisation  in  an  image  of  protest  banners  held  aloft  by  students  during 
the  Academica-Benfica  cup  final  of  69.  The  seventh,  coming  after  the  years  of 
inertia  and  protests,  shows  the  revolution  and  its  immediate  aftermath. 

These  more  loosely  connected  thematic  strands  are  constructed  and  must 
be  approached  in  a different  way  than  the  smaller  narrative  sections  that  exist 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  405 

within  them.  Their  relative  disconnection  means  that  the  photobook  does 
not  work  in  the  same  way  as  film  and  has  two  effects  on  the  way  in  which  the 
montage  of  attraction  functions.  The  first  is  that  instead  of  causing  the  nar- 
rative to  flow,  in  Berger’s  words,  “such  an  energy  [the  energy  of  the  attraction 
between  images]  then  closely  resembles  the  stimulus  by  which  one  memory 
triggers  another,  irrespective  of  any  hierarchy,  chronology  or  duration.”  The 
second  effect  is  that  this  subverts  the  linear  notion  of  sequence,  creating  a 
situation  in  which  “the  sequence  has  become  a field  of  co-existence  like  the 
field  of  memory”  {Another  Way  288).  As  well  as  particular  narratives  about 
certain  events  then,  the  loose  groupings  cause  the  book  to  act  as  a sequence  of 
memories  of  certain  aspects  of  the  city. 

For  Cadava,  photographs  transform  time  into  space  (59).  If  we  accept 
the  preceding  premises,  we  can  argue  that  the  sequential  thematic  arrange- 
ment of  images  makes  possible  a spatial  representation  of  the  city,  a space  of 
co-existence  and  commemoration,  which  can  be  moved  through  by  a reader/ 
viewer.  Bearing  in  mind  the  street  photography  in  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria, 
we  can  even  say  that  this  journey  takes  place  on  foot  and  can  follow  different 
trajectories.  There  is  a linear  organisation  of  the  work  into  themes,  which  are 
traversed  horizontally  so  to  speak.  However,  there  are  other  routes  and  short- 
cuts possible,  which  take  a more  associative  direction.  Unlike  a film,  in  which 
the  spectator  is  borne  along  by  the  flow  of  time,  in  the  photobook  time  is 
under  control.  At  any  moment,  by  flicking  forward  or  backwards  (an  activity 
that  the  loose  narrativity  of  the  photobook  encourages)  the  reader  can  bring 
two  different  images  into  contact.  This  could  take  the  form  of  comparing  the 
same  place  at  different  times,  similar  figures  in  different  situations,  or  even  just 
the  serendipitous  juxtaposition  of  disparate  images:  a sort  of  vertical  traversal. 

One  way  of  conceptualising  this  process  would  be  to  compare  the  con- 
struction of  sentences  in  language  to  this  manner  of  traversal.  The  horizontal 
traversal  can  be  said  to  work  in  the  same  way  as  a paradigmatic  chain,  insofar 
as  each  image  gains  significance  though  its  divergence  from  a similarly  themed 
“vocabulary”  of  photographs.  The  vertical  traversal  can  be  compared  to  the 
syntagmatic  chain,  in  that  the  meaning  of  an  image  is  enacted  by  its  selection 
to  follow  a particular  image  and  the  tenor  of  the  ensuing  photograph.  An 
example:  At  random  I can  open  the  book  and  see  a dishevelled  and  impov- 
erished man  cooking  his  dinner  over  a small  fire  on  the  street  (178).  If  I turn 
back  a page  I can  see  Cardinal  Cerejeira,  the  bishop  of  Lisbon  and  a supporter 
of  the  regime,  inspecting  a kitchen  before  a presumably  lavish  official  dinner 


PAUL  MELO  E CASTRO 


406 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


(176).  This  woLild  outline  the  iniquity  of  the  times.  If  I look  at  the  photo- 
graph on  the  opposite  page,  on  the  other  hand,  I can  see  a group  of  seemingly 
content  women  eating  their  meagre  meal  together  on  the  street  and  perhaps 
think  that  despite  the  deplorable  poverty  there  did  exist  companionship  and 
solidarity  (179).  While  I am  constructing  this  sequence,  I might  bear  in  mind 
the  young  soldiers  embarking  for  the  colonial  wars  (272,  273,  274,  275)  or 
the  crowd  of  chimney  sweeps  as  an  explanation  for  the  absence  of  men  at  the 
street  meal  (exigencies  of  war  or  traditional  divisions  of  labour)  or  instead  the 
image  on  page  248  of  a procession  of  Santo  Antonio,  1966  (the  importance 
of  Catholicism  in  the  life  of  the  city).  With  around  300  photographs  in  the 
photobook,  the  number  of  such  trajectories  is  manifold. 

The  arrangement  of  motionless  photographs  into  sequences  and  the  move- 
ment needed  to  traverse  these  introduce  an  unresolved  tension  between  still- 
ness and  motion  in  Gageiro’s  work.  It  is  through  this  relation  that  the  city  of 
Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria  is  constructed.  While  the  flow  of  a film  may  intro- 
duce an  element  of  a “here  and  now”  into  the  narrative  and  hurry  the  specta- 
tor along,  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria  remains  resolutely  in  the  static  “there  and 
then,”  as  it  is  the  reader/viewer  who  strolls  through  it.  A telling  translation  for 
the  Portuguese  title  would  be  “Lisbon  in  the  Dock  of  Memory.”  In  this  way, 
as  well  as  being  the  portrait  of  a port  city,  by  taking  the  other  meaning  of  the 
word  dock  the  work  can  also  be  seen  as  a place  of  extended  judgement  from 
a humanist  point  of  view  where  various  aspects  of  the  city’s  history  are  tried, 
then  acquitted,  such  as  the  simple  communality  of  the  people,  a disappearing 
way  of  living,  or  condemned,  like  the  repression  of  the  regime,  eventually 
swept  peacefully  away  in  1974. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


407 


Works  Cited 

Barthes,  Roland.  Image-Music-Text.Tizns.  Stephen  Heath.  London:  Fontana  Press,  1977.  Print. 
Berger,  John,  and  Jean  Mohr.  Another  Way  of  Telling.  London  and  New  York:  Writers  and 
Readers  Cooperative  Society,  1982.  Print. 

Cadava,  Eduardo.  Words  of  Light.  Theses  on  the  Photography  of  History.  Princeton,  New  Jersey 
and  Chichester,  West  Sussex:  Princeton  UP,  1997.  Print. 

Gageiro,  Eduardo.  Lisboa  no  cais  da  memoria.  Lisbon:  Edi^ao  do  Autor,  2003.  Print. 

Parr,  Martin,  and  Gerry  Badger.  The  Photobook.  A History.  Volume  One.  London:  Phaidon  Press, 
2004.  Print. 

Pires,  Jose  Cardoso,  and  Eduardo  Gageiro.  Gente.  Lisbon:  Editorial  O Seculo,  1971.  Print. 

Westerbeck,  Colin,  and  Joel  Meyerowitz.  Bystander.  A History  of  Street  Photography.  London: 
Thames  and  Hudson,  1994.  Print. 


Paul  Melo  e Castro  holds  a PhD  in  Portuguese  from  the  University  of  Cambridge.  He  is 
a lecturer  in  Portuguese  at  the  University  of  Leeds.  His  single-author  monograph  Shades 
of  Grey:  1960s  Lisbon  in  Novel,  Film  and  Photography  was  published  in  2011.  Among  his 
interests  is  the  representation  of  1960s  Lisbon  in  works  by  Eduardo  Gageiro,  Jose  Cardoso 
Pires,  and  Fernando  Lopes.  Email:  P.M.Castro@leeds.ac.uk 


PAUL  MELO  E CASTRO 


! 


. f 


'■  [.  if  J'lie 

:v 


The  Blindness  of  Meirelles 


Alessandro  Zir 


Abstract.  The  main  idea  of  this  essay  is  that  any  successful  translation  of  an 
artistic  masterwork  must  in  some  way  rescue  the  whole  poiesis  that  sustains 
the  original  work  as  an  aesthetic  phenomenon.  If  the  translation  does  not 
succeed  in  doing  this,  it  simply  fails.  What  has  to  be  translated  is,  first  of  all, 
not  the  content,  ideas,  story,  or  even  formal  characteristics,  but  the  tension 
that  brings  all  of  the  elements  together.  This  is  especially  visible  when  the 
translation  is  done  from  one  medium  to  another,  such  as  when  a literary 
masterpiece  is  brought  to  the  cinema.  Fernando  Meirelles’s  adaptation  of 
Jose  Saramago’s  Ensaio  sobre  a cegueira  is  a failure  in  this  sense. 


The  movie  begins:  an  extreme  close-up  into  the  pinstriped  and  reflective 
traffic  lights  oscillates  with  another  close  into  blurry  cars  driving  by.  This 
is  enough  to  prove  the  possibility  of  expressing  visually  the  texture  of  an 
oppressive — if  white  and  symbolic — blindness.  Even  after  the  frame  opens, 
the  angles  are  still  a little  slanted,  jammed.  The  cars  keep  crossing  in  front  of 
the  camera,  out  of  focus,  cutting  between  the  scene  and  the  spectators,  almost 
knocking  them  down.  It  is  a very  good  start.  Unfortunately,  the  tension  gen- 
erated by  the  discerning  use  and  subtle  selection  of  cinematographic  resources 
does  not  last  through  the  end  of  the  movie.  It  is  outstripped  by  the  narrative, 
or  worse,  by  the  content  of  the  narrative,  by  what  the  director  wants  to  say,  by 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (2012):  409-418. 

© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


410 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


the  heaviness  of  a message.  The  narrative  collapses  in  the  exact  measure  that  it 
loses  the  opportunity  of  revealing  itself  in  the  same  way  in  which  the  title  of 
the  movie  is  announced:  submerged  in  a milky  reflection  that  gets  unfolded 
by  being  reverted,  inverted  in  a slanted,  moving  surface  of  glasses  and  mirrors. 
And  in  this  context,  the  original  cinematographic  resources  collapse  as  well. 
The  bright  light  that  in  some  passages  of  Meirelles’s  The  Constant  Gardener 
smelled  of  marketing  cliche,  superficially  embellishing  the  hardly  convincing 
intimacy  of  love  scenes,  is  extremely  effective  here  in  expressing  a blindness 
that  is  the  excess  of  vision.  The  problem  is  that  the  tension  generated  by  all 
the  technical  resources  is  insufficient  to  sustain  a narrative  that  pedagogically 
and  didactically  deforms  itself  into  something  that  the  director  seems  to  be 
condescendingly  and  horribly  forced  to  say  at  its  expense.  The  director  is 
betrayed,  possibly  by  himself 

To  come  back  to  the  pertinence  of  the  resources,  there  are  the  audible 
as  well  as  the  visual  ones,  as  the  ingenious  mix  of  tires  screeching,  car  horns 
tooting,  and  an  electronic-chromatic  rustling  that  tracks  the  unbalanced, 
helpless  spinning  of  the  first  blind  man — wide-open  arms  over  a vertiginous 
pedestrian  crossing,  still  at  the  beginning  of  the  movie.  Minutes  later,  there 
is  the  scuffling  and  whispering  unfolding  of  an  iris  cleared  away  in  a tac- 
tile, plicate  mechanism  of  an  unseen  peephole.  Also  unfolded  and  cleared 
away,  muffled,  are  the  set  of  curious  bells  that  play  along  with  the  husky 
countertenor  voice  of  the  maiden  with  sunglasses,  when  she  walks  towards 
a love  transaction  in  a hotel  room,  before  she  goes  blind.  There  are  triangles 
and  buzzers,  crackles  and  swishes.  In  the  middle  of  the  movie,  the  scene  in 
which  a table  is  erased  and  redrawn — another  example  of  an  outstanding 
visual  resource — unexpectedly  resurges;  pushing  the  boy  with  a thump  is  a 
masterly  example  of  an  insightful  and  discerning  combination  of  the  direc- 
tor’s audible  and  visual  creativity.  This  is  what  can  be  said  about  the  audible 
effects,  but  the  use  of  music  is  entirely  different.  It  does  nothing  more  than 
punctuate  certain  points  already  too  formulaic  in  the  narrative,  exaggerating 
their  cliche-like  character  and  collapsing  into  a total  nonsensical  slush.  One 
example  is  the  melodious  and  sighing  reunion  of  the  first  blind  man  with  his 
wife  when  she  arrives  at  the  hospital.  Another  example  would  be  the  conde- 
scending musical  moment  when  the  jewels  are  collected.  The  actors  are  also 
weakly  directed,  which  makes  some  of  the  dialogue  hardly  convincing,  not  to 
mention  the  crying  scenes.  The  first  example,  and  perhaps  the  most  glaring, 
occurs  in  the  clinic  of  the  physician,  where  sentences  such  as  “do  you  think 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


411 


I’m  lying?”  and  “I  know  how  to  get  to  the  hospital”  become  pathetic  due  to 
a lack  of  inner  rhythm.  The  performances  of  Julianne  Moore,  Mark  Ruffalo, 
and  Alice  Braga  are  potent,  but  they  do  not  withstand  the  implausibility  of 
their  own  characters,  the  predictable  linearity  of  the  script. 

The  weakness  of  the  movie  becomes  patent  when  it  is  compared  to  Sara- 
mago’s  book.  The  point,  however,  is  not  that  Saramago’s  book  is  aesthetically 
superior,  but  that  a deficient  approach  to  the  text,  to  Saramago’s  story,  under- 
mines the  constitutive  elements  of  the  movie  itself  The  movie  comes  apart 
independently  of  any  comparison.  There  are  elements  and  gaps  in  the  movie 
the  alchemy  of  which  is  unfortunate  in  terms  of  their  fictional  plausibility, 
while  in  the  case  of  the  book,  on  the  contrary,  such  alchemy  is  extremely 
effective.  The  movie  does  not  succeed  in  attaining  that  minimal  dimension  of 
autonomy  in  relation  to  actuality  that  would  enable  it  to  become  something 
in  itself  The  movie  does  not  emerge  as  a work.  It  would  always  be  possible 
to  opt  for  a poetical  construction  completely  different  from  the  one  exhibited 
in  the  book.  But  the  criticism  that  is  made  here  is  that,  different  or  not,  the 
problem  is  that  the  chosen  construction  doesn’t  work,  and  perhaps  exactly 
because  the  movie  remains  too  much  attached  to  the  book,  but  in  a terribly 
ineffective  way  in  terms  of  its  own  construction.  And  this  is  completely  inde- 
pendent from  the  ingenuity  and  richness  of  the  resources  contrived. 

What  subverts  the  movie  is  an  immaculate  didacticism  in  a setting  in 
which  people  will  continually  step  both  in  their  own  shit  and  on  deceased 
people.  In  relation  to  this  point,  Fernando  Meirelles  shows  indeed  he  is  not 
only  creative  and  discerning  but  has  guts.  The  movie  has  passages  undeni- 
ably disgusting  in  the  best  sense.  One  does  not  have  to  be  entirely  satisfied, 
however,  since  Saramago’s  book — with  its  feces,  deceased  people,  vomit,  snot, 
and  all  sort  of  bad  smells  and  viscosities — could  give  rise  to  myriad  Pasolinian 
Saids.  Of  the  five  senses,  vision  and  even  its  absence  are  not  what  prevails,  but 
the  sense  of  smell,  permanently  oppressed  by  all  sorts  of  stenches.  Maybe  one 
cannot  see,  but  it  is  impossible  not  to  smell  that  when  diffused  in  such  a reek- 
ing and  genuine  miasma  any  linear,  well  meant,  pedagogic  solution  is  fated  to 
self-putrefaction.  No  matter  if  Blindness,  in  terms  of  dirtiness,  seems  to  favor 
smut  over  secretions.  It  is  Children  of  Men  rather  than  giornate  di  Sodoma. 

The  concept  of  white  blindness  as  something  underlying  some  sort  of 
benign  illumination  has  a basis  in  Saramago’s  book.  It  can  be  inferred,  for 
instance,  from  the  passage  in  which  is  described  the  outbreak  of  blindness 
in  the  man  who  initially  helps  and  then  steals  the  car  of  the  first  blind  man. 


ALESSANDRO  ZIR 


412 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Eyes,  turned  to  the  inside,  as  mirrors,  are  able  to  “explicitly  show  what  we  were 
trying  to  deny  with  the  mouth.”  They  are  “a  consciousness  with  teeth  ready  to 
bite”  (Saramago  26).'  Or,  as  is  said  later,  the  blindness  is  “a  luminous  glory” 
(94).  However,  especially  in  this  latter  expression  suggested  by  the  narrator,  there 
is  a caustic  irony.  The  luminous  glory  is  also  feces,  because  “light  and  bright- 
ness” smell  to  the  physician  exactly  like  shit,  when  he  cannot  even  clean  himself 
because  there  is  no  paper  for  the  toilet  towards  which  he  has  crawled,  groping 
over  a sticky  floor  (96-7).  It  is  actually  a “hideous  white  tide”  (115)  of  “a  fright- 
ened horse,  a horse  with  eyes  wanting  to  jump  out  of  their  sockets”  (131).  It  is 
“the  eye  that  refuses  to  recognize  its  own  absence”  (129).  It  is  as  well  the  pos- 
sibility of  returning  to  a thing-like  state,  a kind  of  remission,  an  eschatological 
regression  that  transfigures  the  symbolic  by  a process  of  thing-like  specification: 
“[To]  cross  the  visible  skin  of  things  passing  into  their  inner  side,  into  their  glow- 
ing and  irremediable  blindness”  (65) — this  is  the  desire  of  the  physicians  wife. 

The  movie  lacks  this  ambiguity,  as  well  as  the  irony  and  coldness  that 
articulate  and  sustain  the  story  in  the  book,  as  in  the  passage  in  which  the 
narrator  confesses  that  “the  grotesque  of  the  spectacle  would  have  made  the 
most  sobering  observer  laugh  his  head  off,  it  was  hilarious,  many  blind  crawl- 
ing forward,  their  faces  close  to  the  floor  like  swine”  (105).  It  is  this  detach- 
ment of  the  narrator  that  gives  to  the  book  the  undertone  of  a parody  of  itself 
without  which  the  story  proposed  by  Saramago  would  be  empty.  Is  it  really 
possible  to  make  a movie  out  of  it?  How  to  create  in  cinematographic  terms 
the  gibe  of  a narrator  who,  knowing  that  the  physician’s  wife  is  not  blind, 
treats  her  as  an  exemplary  model  of  blindness  with  “frontal  vision”  (87)?  How 
to  create  in  cinematographic  terms  the  cynicism  of  a narrator  who  jocosely 
allies  himself  with  the  food  thieves,  characterizing  them  as  “the  hand  [. . .]  that 
feeds”  (162)?  Or  who  says  about  the  blind  making  noise  in  order  to  distract 
the  attention  of  the  gang  of  rapists:  they  “were  like  lady  mourners  in  a trance” 
(202)?  Or  who  says  about  the  blind  who  turn  back  to  see  the  nude  breasts  of 
the  physician’s  wife  that  they  do  so  too  late,  because  she  had  already  covered 
herself  with  a coat  (228)?  Or  who  makes  the  following  comment  about  the 
panic  unleashed  by  the  discovery  that  the  image  of  the  saint  inside  the  church 
was  also  blindfolded:  “[Ojne  has  to  be  really  kind  not  to  burst  out  laughing 
in  view  of  this  grotesque  entanglement  of  bodies  searching  for  arms  to  release 
them  and  legs  to  run  away”  (303)?  But  no  kindness  can  forgive  the  director 
for  not  realizing  that  without  this  lampooning  of  the  narrative  in  relation  to 
the  narrative  itself — of  the  narrator  in  relation  to  the  spectacle  that  he  himself 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  413 

depicts — whatever  could  be  saved  from  the  story  would  be,  in  the  end,  as 
implausible  as  a Dracula  performed  by  a toothless  actor.  Such  a lampoon 
could  be  rescued  with  resources  not  much  more  complicated  than  the  intro- 
duction of  a narrator,  as  has  been  done  in  some  classics  of  Robert  Bresson, 
and  in  Plata  quemada.  Meirelles  delays  the  use  of  this  resource  until  the  last 
minutes  of  the  movie,  when  he  avails  himself  of  the  voice  of  the  blindfolded 
old  man,  but  it  is  then  too  late. 

A glowing  example  of  immaculate,  nonsensical  didacticism  is  the  speech 
made  by  the  physician,  when  he  says  that  he  would  not  mind  prostituting  his 
own  wife  since  they  were  all  fated  to  starve  to  death.  The  movie  gives  here 
the  mistaken  impression  that  the  disarray  of  the  whole  situation  might  derive 
from  the  lack  of  some  fundamental  or  basic  necessity,  which  could  have  been 
previously  and  predictably  attended  to.  Meirelles  does  nothing  other  than 
to  repeat  literally  what  is  written  in  the  corresponding  passage  of  Saramago’s 
book,  and  yet  the  departure  from  Saramagos  book,  taken  as  a whole,  of  its 
spirit,  of  the  marrow  of  its  text  and  poiesis,  couldn’t  be  larger.  In  an  essay 
published  in  the  newspaper  El  Pats  eight  days  after  the  twin  towers  attack, 
Saramago  says,  differently  from  Nietzsche  (for  whom  the  fact  that  God  does 
not  exist  would  imply  that  everything  is  possible),  that  for  him,  Saramago,  it 
is  rather  the  case  that,  God  apparently  existing,  all  atrocities  can  be  justified 
in  his  name.  What  is  actually  common  to  both  Saramago  and  Nietzsche  is 
the  indictment  of  the  nihilism  into  which  one  falls  when  everything  becomes 
possible — be  it  by  God  or  by  the  lack  of  God.  Their  malaise  comes  from  a 
liquidation  of  all  values.  It  could  be  said  that  this  is  exactly  one  of  the  main 
roots  of  Saramago’s  Ensaio  sobre  a cegueira.  In  the  name  of  survival,  everything 
becomes  possible.  When  the  only  thing  that  remains  is  to  survive,  we  attain 
the  ground  of  a fundamental  necessity,  or  rather  we  dissolve  the  apparently 
fundamental  status  of  such  a necessity,  in  the  name  of  which  is  perpetrated 
a general  dissolution  of  all  possible  values,  exactly  because  in  view  of  such  a 
necessity  everything  would  become  justifiable.  The  most  pressing  problem  is 
not  simply  starving  to  death,  as  it  would  be  possible  to  infer  in  a hurried  read- 
ing— not  that  starving  to  death  is  not  a problem,  but,  against  any  simplistic 
pedagogy,  to  be  able  to  satisfy  people’s  hunger  and  their  other  few  basic  neces- 
sities is  not  the  solution  for  the  blindness  at  issue  here,  especially  if  one  does 
so  at  the  expense  of  everything  else. 

What  truly  horrifies  does  not  come  from  something  concrete,  palpable. 

When  the  maiden  with  sunglasses  says,  in  the  movie,  “it  is  not  easy  knowing 


ALESSANDRO  ZIR 


414 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


that  we  have  killed  someone,  like  I did,”  this  is  just  another  example  of 
immaculate,  nonsensical  didacticism,  occasioned  by  a literal  but  myopic  repe- 
tition ot  the  words  in  the  book.  The  genuine  problem  is  not  simply  to  kill  (no 
matter  if  this  is  done  with  scissors),  as  the  viewer  might  wrongly  conclude, 
only  to  leave  the  cinema  edified  by  the  natural  goodness  of  us  all  (or  of  some 
few,  among  which  he  certainly  includes,  besides  the  maiden  with  sunglasses, 
the  physician’s  wife  and  probably  himself).  In  the  book,  when  she  is  reflecting 
over  the  fact  that  she  has  killed  the  king  of  ward  one  with  a scissors,  the  phy- 
sician’s wife  ends  by  considering  that  “it  is  necessary  to  kill  [...]  when  what 
is  still  alive  is  already  dead”  (189).  That  is,  the  genuine  drama,  the  tragedy 
of  conscioLisness  does  not  come  from  any  original  purity,  from  any  humani- 
tarian, moral  atrophy  of  the  ability  to  kill.  Much  on  the  contrary,  tragedy 
comes  from  the  discovery  of  a possible  state  of  fuzziness  between  the  alive 
and  the  dead,  this  state  of  living  death,  which  not  only  justifies  assassination 
but  demands  it,  as  a necessity.  One  must  conclude  that  what  is  legitimately 
pressing  here  is  not  the  discovery  of  a natural  ground,  but  the  instauration 
of  values,  of  distinctions  and  divisions,  as  the  ones  between  living  and  dead 
beings.  At  the  end  of  the  book,  the  same  woman  will  defend  the  importance 
of  an  order  “that  wants  the  dead  in  their  place  of  the  dead  and  the  living  in 
their  place  of  the  living,  while  hens  and  rabbits  feed  some  and  are  fed  by  oth- 
ers” (288).  It  is  the  minimal  recognition  that  not  everything  must  be  possible 
and  that  things  must  not  be  taken  as  equal  (even  if  we  are  starving  to  death). 
And  there  is  no  lack  of  irony  in  this  formulation,  mentioning  hens  and  rab- 
bits, to  warn  about  the  ambiguity  and  the  transitory  character  of  values,  but 
nothing  could  be  more  “fundamental”  than  the  contraposition,  concretized 
in  time,  of  these  reversible  differences.  The  movie  fails  in  conveying  all  this, 
it  fails  in  conveying  the  complexity  of  matters  at  issue,  and  we  are  left  with 
nothing  more  than  the  self-edification  of  the  good  and  pathetic  viewer  in  the 
armchair  of  the  cinema,  an  unsuspected  specimen  of  Alex  from  Clockwork 
Orange,  confident  in  his  hunger  and  natural  inability  to  kill. 

When,  differently,  the  director  was  bold  enough  to  create,  to  invent  a 
dialogue  that  was  not  originally  in  the  book,  the  outcome  is  effective:  “[M]ay 
I suck  on  your  nipples?  Just  a little  bit.  Here  you  go.”  These  expressions, 
uttered  in  falsetto,  among  the  guttural  roars  of  a dark  brown,  blurry  orgy 
constitute  one  of  the  most  genuine  scenes  in  the  movie.  Another  example  of 
convincing  originality  emerging  in  the  movie  is  the  character  of  the  king  of 
ward  one,  the  clownish  amoralism  of  whom  is  consummately  captured  by 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  415 

Gael  Garcia  Bernal.  It  would  be  mean  but  fair  to  consider  that  the  character 
profited  from  being  killed  in  the  first  half  of  the  movie.  All  the  other  actors  are 
forced  to  sustain,  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  the  movie,  a continuous 
idealization  that  in  the  case  of  the  character  performed  by  Bernal  would  have 
been  a priori  impossible.  In  the  book,  both  the  physician  and  his  wife  have 
defects  and  ambiguities.  For  instance,  they  retreat  every  time  they  have  the 
opportunity  to  take  a more  daring  attitude  that  could  reverse  the  unbearable 
situation  inside  the  hospital.  Very  quickly  they  accept  the  ruse  of  having  to 
pay  for  the  food  expropriated  by  the  blind  of  the  other  ward,  and  when  the 
physician  has  the  chance  of  taking  hold  of  the  firearm  of  the  thief,  he  fails,  and 
regrets  it  (147).  The  excuse,  in  this  case,  is  that  any  abrupt  reaction  against  the 
thieves  could  bring  the  whole  situation  to  an  even  worse  denouement.  Or  at 
least  it  is  this  that  the  character  says  to  himself  in  the  book.  And  it  is  not  much 
more  than  the  movie  is  capable  of  conveying  to  the  viewer.  However,  there 
are  in  the  book  other  signs  that  the  things  a character  says  to  himself — and 
this  applies  to  the  case  of  the  physician  as  well,  and  his  wife — are  to  a great 
measure  defensive  rationalizations,  resulting  less  from  an  excellence  of  reason- 
ing and  moral  purity  than  from  passivity  and  even  laziness.  The  movie  does 
not  explore  these  ambiguities,  and  because  of  this  omission  it  undermines  the 
main  characters,  the  ones  who  have  to  maintain  intact,  from  the  beginning  to 
the  end,  their  sizeable  dose  of  goodness.  It  is  true  that,  even  in  the  book,  the 
passivity  of  the  physicians  wife  is  not  a mere  defect,  yet  it  is  not  idealized,  no 
matter  if  it  is  somewhat  heroic.  It  is  “an  infinite  fatigue,  a will  to  curl  around 
oneself,  the  eyes  [...]  turned  to  inside  [...]  till  they  were  able  to  reach  and 
observe  the  interior  of  the  brain  itself,  there  where  the  difference  between 
seeing  and  not  seeing  is  invisible  to  the  simple  view”  (157-8).  There  is  no 
didacticism  here.  There  is  no  easy  pedagogy  and  edifying  solace.  Passivity  is 
also  the  possibility  already  mentioned  of  salvation  as  an  eschatological  retreat, 
the  transfiguration  of  the  symbolic  in  a thing-like  state.  Intentionally  or  not, 
Saramago  flirted  here  with  some  kind  of  Judaic  mysticism  that  is  known  to  be 
rooted  in  Portuguese  culture  since  the  late  middle  ages.  Hence  the  concrete 
essence  of  things  as  being  something  impossible  to  denominate,  as  says  the 
maiden  with  sunglasses;  “[I]nside  us  there  is  something  that  has  no  name,  this 
thing  is  what  we  are”  (262). 

The  escape  from  the  quarantine  hospital  after  the  fire,  with  the  disappear- 
ance of  the  guards  and  the  unavoidably  lampooned  and  thus  excellent  “we 
are  free,”  propels  the  movie  beyond  the  collapse  that  one  wishes  would  finally 


ALESSANDRO  ZIR 


416 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


end  it.  This  expression,  “we  are  free,”  is  not  voiced  as  a simple  cliche  but 
rather  as  a hyper-cliche,  not  merely  implausible  but  completely  nonsensical  in 
that  world  ot  nuts,  and  thtis,  accordingly,  plausible.  It  is  only  this  hyper-cliche 
that  enables  the  narrative  to  recover  its  breath  and  go  on  towards  an  end  that 
is,  unfortunately,  more  and  more  broken.  In  this  effective  scene  of  the  “we  are 
free,”  the  camera  once  more  moves  from  the  perspective  of  a claustrophobic 
frame — a crack — opening  onto  the  city’s  wreckage,  remindful,  among  other 
things,  of  the  lampooned  and  apocalyptical  atmosphere  of  classics  such  as 
Stanley  Kubrick’s  Full  Metal  Jacket.  In  this  freed  scenario,  the  “eat  something” 
said  to  the  physician  by  his  wife  after  the  struggle  to  save  the  grocery  bags  in 
the  store  stops  being  the  easy  sign  of  some  basic  necessity  that  it  would  be  pos- 
sible to  predictably  satisfy,  and  becomes  something  concrete  in  the  categorical 
poverty  of  what  one  meagerly  owns,  in  a positive  void  of  meaning  in  which 
the  word  “necessity”  is  as  meaningless  as  a wrested  piece  of  salami,  or  as  half 
of  a cereal  bar  coming  apart  between  one’s  teeth.  It  is  a scene  strong  enough 
to  capture  all  the  irony  lacking  in  the  others — a perfect  if  not  superior  version 
in  film  of  the  written  joke  that  it  is  possible  to  “heighten”  the  “perfume  of  a 
tough  bread  loaf”  to  the  state  of  “the  very  essence  of  life”  (227). 

It  is  not  bread,  however,  but  water  that  gains  primacy  at  the  end  of  the 
narrative.  In  the  book  it  even  has  an  explicit  religious  character,  as  when  the 
three  women  washing  are  presented  as  “three  graces”  and  the  narrator  speaks 
of  “soul”  and  “God”  (265-7).  Here  indeed  it  appears  that  something  lyrical 
is  demanded,  maybe  even  something  basic,  and  definitely  fundamental,  but 
that  would  only  be  annulled  by  all  the  accumulated  dirtiness,  till  then  impos- 
sible to  eliminate.  According  to  the  book,  there  is  no  water  in  the  pipes;  it  is 
impossible  to  get  clean.  One  can  change  dirty  clothes  for  clean  ones,  but  there 
is  no  way  to  wash,  except  when  the  rain  comes.  We  are  in  the  opposite  situ- 
ation in  relation  to  the  one  at  the  hospital,  in  which  one  would  do  anything, 
plunge  into  the  most  ignoble  and  stinking  dough,  just  for  a loaf  of  bread. 
This  water  is  not  a necessity  that  compels,  but  something  that  frees  one  from 
everything  that  he  or  she  was  forced  to  stand  in  the  name  of  an  alleged  neces- 
sity. In  this  sense,  water  really  is  a grace.  It  is  also,  one  should  not  forget,  cold 
water,  water  that  makes  one  tremble,  and  which  one  cannot  stand  for  very 
long.  In  the  movie,  however,  independently  from  its  temperature,  all  grace 
is  lost,  because  there  is  beneath  it  the  romantic  imperative  (in  a Rousseauian 
sense)  that  there  are  fundamental  necessities  that  would  linearly  crown  the 
lyric  core  of  some  kind  of  noble  humanism,  which  would  be  necessary  to 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


417 


rescue  by  all  means,  even  when  the  paid  price  does  not  make  up  for  what  is 
lost.  We  are  then  cheered  with  whispers,  a Bach  cantata  melody,  and  “this  is 
your  home  now  too,”  “there  is  nothing  like  clean  water,”  “human  family  and 
a dog.”  It  would  be  possible  to  respond  to  the  toast  by  complaining,  among 
other  things,  that  the  terrier  of  the  movie,  no  matter  its  wire  hair,  does  not 
convey  any  ambiguity  as  does  the  one  in  the  book,  “a  harsh  and  intractable 
dog  when  it  has  not  to  wipe  out  tears”  (230).  One  could  as  well  be  nostalgic 
of  hyenas  “with  shrunken  rumps,”  and  hens  “crazily  happy”  eating  (possi- 
bly human)  meat  (237).  To  be  entirely  fair,  one  has  to  admit  that  in  this 
final  deception  of  the  narrative,  the  creator  of  which  lacked  non-seeing  eyes, 
another  great  insight  occurred,  proving  that  we  are  still  before  the  director  of 
Cidade  de  Deus,  a masterpiece.  Saramago  was  able  to  include,  in  the  last  pages 
of  his  story,  and  in  an  almost  paradoxical  way,  the  writer  himself,  balanced  in 
a subtle  asymmetry  between  writing  and  reading.  Exactly  the  same  paradox  is 
reproduced  in  the  movie,  when  the  physician  takes  pictures,  and  in  a way  that 
is  even  more  in  accordance  with  this  blindness  that,  after  all,  seemed  to  be  the 
subject  of  them  both. 


Note 

* The  translations  are  mine. 


Work  Cited 

Children  of  Men.  Dir.  Alfonso  Cuaron.  Universal  Pictures,  2006.  Film. 

Clockwork  Orange.  Dir.  Stanley  Kubrick.  Warner  Bros,  1971.  Film. 

Full  Metal  Jacket.  Dir.  Stanley  Kubrick.  Warner  Bros,  1987.  Film. 

Meirelles,  Fernando,  dir.  Blindness.  Rhombus  Media,  2008.  Film. 

. Cidade  de  Deus.  02  Films,  2002.  Film. 

. The  Constant  Gardener.  Focus  Features,  2005.  Film. 

Plata  quemada.  Dir.  Marcelo  Pineyro.  Oscar  Kramer  SA,  2000.  Film. 

Salb  0 le  120  giornati  di  Sodoma.  Dir.  Pier  Paolo  Pasolini.  Produzioni  Europee  Associati,  1975. 
Film. 

Saramago,  Jose.  Ensaio  sobre  a cegueira.  Sao  Paulo:  Companhia  das  Letras,  1996.  Print. 


ALESSANDRO  ZIR 


418 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Alessandro  Zir  is  a journalist  and  philosopher,  with  publications  in  Brazil,  Chile,  and 
Portugal,  including  chapters  of  books,  papers,  translations,  and  fiction.  Member  of  the 
GIFHC  (Interdisciplinary  Group  in  Philosophy  and  History  of  Science),  ILEA/UFRGS 
- Brazil,  he  has  participated  in  international  symposia  in  institutions  such  as  the  Max 
Planck  Institut  fur  Wissenschaffsgeschichte  (Berlin),  and  the  Biblioteca  Municipal  de  Evora 
(Portugal).  He  is  a Capes  scholarship  holder  (Ministry  of  Education,  Brazil),  and  received 
his  PhD  in  the  Interdisciplinary  Program  at  Dalhousie  University  (Halifax,  Canada)  in 
July  of  2009.  Email:  azir@dal.ca 


La  retorica  del  poder:  El  discurso  ideologico 
de  Salazar  a traves  de  sus  aforismos  politicos 


Alberto  Pena-Rodrfguez 


Abstract.  The  Portuguese  dictatorship  of  Oliveira  Salazar  was  a corporatist 
fascist  regime  whose  propaganda  structures  were  very  much  involved 
in  the  creation  and  consolidation  of  the  New  State  (1933-1974). 

Salazars  political  project  and  his  propagandistic  discourse  were  based  on 
notions  drawn  from  his  extremely  conservative  thinking.  His  Catholic 
beliefs  regarding  God  and  Family  as  well  as  the  patriotic  tradition  were 
the  principal  ideas  of  his  political  discourse.  In  order  to  involve  the 
Portuguese  people  in  his  ideological  model,  the  New  States  Department 
of  Propaganda  and  its  official  newspaper,  the  Didrio  da  Manha,  organized 
systematic  campaigns  to  promote  Salazarist  arguments.  By  analyzing  his 
most  popular  political  aphorisms  from  the  beginning  of  the  New  State, 
this  article  attempts  to  examine  the  rhetorical  techniques  used  by  Salazar 
to  transform  himself  into  the  great  leader  of  Portugal. 


El  aparato  propagandistico  del  Estado  Novo,  creado  en  1933  a partir  de  la 
fundacion  del  Secretariado  de  Propaganda  Nacional  (SPN),  fue  muy  eficaz  en 
sus  acciones  de  control  de  la  conciencia  nacional  portuguesa;  supo  manejar 
todos  los  resortes  del  poder  para  adoctrinar  de  manera  decidida  y planificada 
a la  sociedad  lusa  utilizando  todo  tipo  de  tecnicas  comunicativas  que  pronto 
consiguieron  apagar  cualquier  tipo  de  contestacion  (Paulo,  Estado  Novo  e pro- 
paganda)} La  dictadura  fue  justificada  en  sus  inicios,  ademas,  por  intelectua- 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24  (20 12):  41 9—440. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


420 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


les  de  prestigio  como  el  escritor  Fernando  Pessoa,  que  contribuyo  a legitimar 
el  Estado  Novo  con  un  disciirso  politico  coincidence  en  muchos  aspectos  con 
el  del  propio  Salazar  en  los  inicios  de  la  dictadura  (Mendes,  “Justifying  Dic- 
tatorship”). De  manera  coordinada,  el  SPN  y el  partido  linico  del  regimen,  la 
Uniao  Nacional,  pusieron  en  marcha  multiples  iniciativas  que  consiguieron 
extender  nipidamente  la  influencia  de  las  consignas  de  la  dictadura  a todos 
los  sectores  de  la  sociedad  portuguesa  (Pena-Rodrfguez,  “Tudo  pela  na^ao” 
177-204).  Las  campanas  de  comunicacion  del  Estado  Novo  siguieron  las  mis- 
mas  pautas  que  otros  modelos  politicos  de  matriz  fascista,  en  las  que  el  Ifder 
era  el  Jefe  indiscutible  y sus  mensajes  eran  palabras  sagradas  (Matos,  Salazar 
85-97). ~ La  imagen  que  se  ofrecia  de  Salazar  en  los  anos  treinta  era  comple- 
tamente  endiosada:  protagonizaba  innumerables  reportajes  periodisticos  en  la 
prensa  lusa  que  lo  convertian  en  una  especie  de  heroe  nacional,  Salvador  de 
las  esencias  de  la  patria,  sabio  infalible  y redentor  de  Portugal  (Martins,  Olho 
de  DeusA5-5?>).  Su  prestigio,  segiin  narraba  el  Didrio  da  Manha,  habi'a  hecho 
renacer  el  “espirito  civilizador”  de  su  pais  y merecfa,  por  ello,  format  parte  del 
patrimonio  de  la  civilizacion  europea; 

Ao  seu  genio  de  doutrinario  e de  construtor;  a sua  competencia  de  financeiro  e de 
jurista;  a sua  fe  integra  e a sua  persistencia  calma;  ao  seu  rigor  nos  seus  metodos 
e a clarividencia  dos  seus  jui'zos;  a sua  for^a  de  vontade  e a sua  superior  no^ao 
do  interesse  nacional;  a sua  probidade  absoluta  de  administrador  e a sua  energia 
inquebrantavel  de  chefe.  Por  isso  mesmo,  o nome  e Salazar,  o pensamento  de 
Salazar,  as  reformas  de  Salazar,  fazem  parte  do  mais  alto  patrimonio  da  civili- 
za^ao  europeia.  E as  homenagens  ao  chefe  do  governo  portugues  acumulam-se, 
multiplicam-se,  traduzem  com  eloquencia  o valor  universal  [cursiva  en  el  original] 
do  seu  prestigio.  Prestigio  de  Portugal  e prestigio  de  Salazar — ambos  intimamente 
unidos,  numa  formula  sintetica  de  ressurgimento.  E o prestigio  de  Portugal  sera 
tanto  mais  solido,  tanto  mais  alto,  quanto  melhor  se  sinta  la  fora  a plena  estabi- 
lidade  do  seu  governo,  a progressao  serena  do  seu  esforq:o,  dentro  dos  mesmos 
principios  condutores,  sob  o mesmo  chefe  ilustrado  e consagrado  no  presente 
pelas  mais  belas  vitorias  hao-de  continuar  e frutificar  integralmente,  nas  jornadas 
da  Historia  futura!^ 

La  Constance  publicacion  de  noticias  y comentarios  elogiosos  sobre  su 
accion  poli'tica  convirtieron  a Salazar  en  una  figura  popular  e insustituible 
como  Presidente  del  Gobierno.  La  estrategia  salazarista  tenia  como  objetivo 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


421 


agrupar  a todos  en  torno  a 6\,  con  un  marcado  estilo  paternalista,  para  evitar 
las  disidencias  y las  fricciones  internas  y lograr  la  consolidacion  del  Estado 
Novo,  que  era  un  proyecto  politico,  aunque  inspirado  en  el  modelo  del  fas- 
cismo  corporativo  italiano,  creado  por  Salazar  para  Portugal  y los  portugueses 
(Torgal,  Estados  novos  287-322).  Cada  una  de  sus  decisiones  politicas,  de  sus 
propuestas  sociales,  de  sus  frases,  era  una  leccion,  era  “a  li9ao  de  Salazar.”"^  Sus 
palabras  se  revestfan  siempre  de  un  halo  divino.  La  retorica  periodi'stica  sobre 
el  prestigio  del  dictador  y su  proyecto  politico  era  el  discurso  dominante  en 
la  mayoria  de  los  medios  de  comunicacion  nacionales  en  los  anos  treinta.  La 
venta  de  retratos  suyos  era  frecuente  entre  los  afiliados  de  la  Legiao  Portuguesa 
y la  Mocidade  Portuguesa,  y la  prensa  portuguesa  publicaba  anuncios  que 
recordaban  que  la  “bela  estampa  do  eminente  chefe  Salazar”  se  podia  comprar 
en  cualquier  libreria.^ 

Los  grandes  diarios  de  difusion  nacional,  especialmente  el  Didrio  da 
Manhd,  junto  con  O Skulo,  el  Didrio  de  Noticias,  el  Comericio  do  Porto  y O 
Primeiro  de  Janeiro,  ademas  de  la  estatal  Emissora  Nacional  y otras  radios  afi- 
nes  al  Estado  Novo  y al  servicio  del  SPN  como  el  influyente  Radio  Club  Por- 
tugues,  jugaron  un  papel  muy  importante  en  la  forja  del  discurso  salazarista 
como  la  ideologia  ohcial  del  nuevo  regimen  (Adinolfi,  Ai  confini  del  fascismo 
93).  Otros  periodicos  de  referencia  nacional  como  el  Didrio  de  Lisboa  y el 
Republica  no  colaboraron  de  manera  explicita  en  las  campanas  propagandis- 
ticas  que  glorificaban  a Salazar  y sus  ideas,  pero  tampoco  pudieron  construir 
un  discurso  critico  con  la  dictadura  porque  el  ferreo  control  de  los  Servi^os  de 
Censura  lo  impidieron  (Principe,  Segredos  da  censurd).  Ademas,  el  gobierno 
del  Estado  Novo  promovio  y subvenciono  numerosas  publicaciones  de  carac- 
ter  nacionalista  (lease  salazarista)  para  galvanizar  las  directrices  politicas  del 
lider  portugues.  Entre  ellas,  podriamos  citar  como  ejemplos  resonantes,  el 
Boletim  da  Legiao  Portuguesa,  y las  revistas  Defesa  Nacional,  Alma  Nacional  y 
Acgdo:  Semandrio  Portugues  para  Portugueses. 

Prensa  y discurso  politico:  los  aforismos  de  Salazar 

El  discurso  salazarista  se  convirtio  pronto  en  la  principal  fuente  ideologica 
del  Estado  Novo  y en  la  unica  y verdadera  esencia  del  autentico  pensamiento 
politico  portugues  (Ribeiro  de  Meneses,  Salazar.  Uma  biograjid).^  Las  pala- 
bras de  Salazar  eran  una  especie  de  mandamientos  que  no  era  posible  discu- 
tir.  Desde  su  condicion  de  militante  catolico  y de  catedratico  universitario, 
podriamos  describir  sus  discursos  como  homilias  academicas  de  profundo 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRI'GUEZ 


422 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


canicrer  parriorico.  Asi,  se  hie  constriiyendo  ima  eficaz  mitologi'a  propagan- 
distica  sobre  sii  sabidiin'a,  cuya  representacion  retorica  tenia  un  sentido  peda- 
gogico  y popular  (Monica,  Educagao  e sociedade  (El —^7) . Uno  de  los  momentos 
mas  interesanres  sobre  la  popiilarizacion  y difiision  masiva  del  discurso  salaza- 
rista  hie  cuando  los  dos  principales  medios  de  comunicacion  del  regimen,  el 
Didrio  da  Manhay  la  Emissora  Nacional,  organizaron  en  marzo  de  1937  un 
concurso  nacional  sobre  los  aforismos  mas  brillantes  de  Salazar  con  el  fin  de 
divulgar  el  “pensamento  nacional ista”  del  dictador7  Los  medios  de  comunica- 
cion salazaristas  hicieron  una  campana  sin  precedences  del  concurso,  distribu- 
yendo  carteles  (incluso  de  lorma  aerea)^  por  todas  las  ciudades  y pueblos  del 
pais  encabezados  por  las  lemas  “Ouvir  a Emissora  NacionaE  y “Ler  o Didrio 
da  ManhdE  bajo  las  cuales  se  reproduda  un  perfil  de  Salazar  realizado  por 
el  pintor  Eduardo  Malta  y el  reclamo  “Grande  Concurso  Nacional.”^  Para 
adquirir  la  condicion  de  concursante  era  necesario  oir  y leer  diariamente  los 
dos  medios  publicos  durante  dos  meses,  en  busca  de  las  frases  mas  lucidas 
del  dictador,  pues  en  cada  edicion  se  publicaba  un  unico  aforismo.  Eueron 
publicados  en  total  60  esloganes  politicos  del  dictador,  que  condensaban  las 
claves  ideologicas  del  salazarismo  con  mensajes  profundamente  patrioticos, 
aderezados  de  un  catolicismo  militante,  un  profundo  anti-comunismo,  una 
defensa  a ultranza  del  corporativismo,  del  colonialismo  portugues  y del  con- 
trol de  la  opinion  publica. 

En  total  participaron  en  el  concurso  7.623  personas,  que  tuvieron  que 
escoger  y votar  por  la  jaculatoria  que  creian  mas  representativa  de  la  patrio- 
tica  sabiduria  de  Salazar.  Se  anunciaron  grandes  premios  para  los  vencedores, 
entre  ellos  un  coche  y cientos  de  regalos  donados  por  innumerables  casas 
comerciales.  Los  premios  tenian  varias  categorias,  divididas  de  forma  estratifi- 
cada  por  clases  sociales:  amas  de  casa  (cuyo  mejor  obsequio  era  una  maquina 
de  coser),  obreros  (un  seguro  de  vida),  oficinistas  (una  maquina  de  escribir), 
estudiantes  (un  traje  academico  y gratuidad  de  tasas  universitarias)  y fun- 
cionarios  publicos  (18  dias  de  vacaciones  en  los  mejores  hoteles  de  Portu- 
gal). La  hase  mas  votada  fue  “Tudo  pela  Na<;ao,  Nada  contra  a Nai;ao,” 
que  casualmente  era  el  subtitulo  del  Didrio  da  Manhd  y la  principal  divisa 
politica  del  regimen.  Resulto  elegida  por  5.982  concursantes.”  Sus  mejores 
200  maximas,  ademas,  fueron  publicadas  en  un  libro  de  edicion  inglesa  por 
el  SPN  con  un  retrato  del  dictador,  segiin  una  cronica  publicada  en  el  Didrio 
de  Noticias}^  Las  frases  completas,  que  fueron  recopiladas  una  a una  a craves 
de  las  diferentes  ediciones  de  marzo  y abril  de  1 937  en  el  Didrio  da  Manhd,  se 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  423 

reproducen  a continuacion  (segun  el  orden  cronologico  de  publicacion)  por 
su  indudable  valor  historico: 

N°  1:  “Tudo  pela  Na^ao,  Nada  contra  a Na^ao.” 

No  2;  “Temos  obriga^ao  de  sacriflcar  tudo  por  todos;  nao  devemos  sacri- 
ficar-nos  todos  por  alguns.” 

N®  3:  “Nao  ha  Estado  forte  onde  o Poder  Executivo  o nao  e,  e o enfra- 
quecimento  deste  e caracten'stica  geral  dos  regimes  politicos  dominados 
pelo  liberalismo  individualista  ou  partidario  e pelos  excessos  e desordens 
do  parlamentarismo.” 

N®  4:  “Os  homens  que  se  habituam  a cumprir  sempre  e so  o seu  dever  pouco 
se  Ihes  da  do  lugar  que  ocupam;  interessa-lhes  muito  desempenha-lo  bem.” 

N®  5:  “Se  a Fe  nao  e uma  mentira,  sera  fonte  inesgotavel  de  vida  espiri- 
tual;  mas,  se  como  virtude  e dom  de  Deus,  nem  compreendemos  que  se 
imponha  pela  for^a  nem  a vantagem  de  se  contrariar  a sua  pratica.” 

N®  6;  “Os  portugueses  que  se  aprestem  a oferecer  o seu  concurso  sabem 
que  cumprem  um  dever,  mas  nao  adquirem  um  direito,  e que  precisa- 
mente  com  a sua  ajuda  e que  Estado  vai  deixar  de  fazer  favores  a alguns 
para  poder  distribuir  justi^a  a todos.” 

N®  7:  “E  timbre  do  Governo  nao  prometer — realizar;  nao  come^ar — fazer.” 

N®  8:  “A  universalidade  de  ideia  e de  a^ao  no  curso  da  evolu^ao  catolica  e 
europeia,  dirigida  a eleva^ao  material  e moral  da  especie,  eis  a caracteris- 
tica  da  historia  da  nossa  Patria.” 

N®  9:  “Por  mais  longe  que  va  a nossa  tolerancia  perante  as  divergencias 
doutrinais  que  em  muitos  pontos  dividem  os  homens,  nos  somos  obri- 
gados  a dizer  que  nao  reconhecemos  liberdade  contra  a Na^ao,  contra  o 
bem-comum,  contra  a famflia,  contra  a moral.” 

N®  10  “Nos  temos  uma  doutrina  e somos  uma  for^a.  Como  for^a  compe- 
te-nos  governar:  temos  o mandato  duma  revolu^ao  triunfante,  sem  oposi^oes 
e com  a consagra^ao  do  Pais;  como  adeptos  duma  doutrina,  importa-nos  ser 
intransigentes  na  defesa  e na  realiza^ao  dos  prindpios  que  a constituem.” 

N®  11:  “Na  vida  publica  como  na  particular  a falta  de  sinceridade  des- 
gosta  e cansa:  nenhum  regime  politico  que  use  a mentira  como  metodo 
de  governo  ou  se  contente  de  verdades  convencionais  pode  acreditar-se  na 
alma  popular.” 

N®  12:  “O  comunismo  e,  como  sistema  e independentemente  de  algumas 
realiza^oes  materials,  a sintese  de  todas  as  revoltas  tradicionais  da  materia 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRfGUEZ 


424 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


contra  o espi'rito  e da  barbaria  contra  a Civiliza^ao.  Ele  e a grande  ‘heresia’ 
da  nossa  idade.” 

N°  13:  “O  plutocrata  nao  e nem  o grande  industrial  nem  o financeiro:  e 
lima  especie  de  hibrida  intermediaria  entre  a economia  e a finan^a;  e a ‘flor 
do  mal’  do  capitalismo.” 

N®  14:  “Nenhum  povo  no  Mundo  pode  amar  mais  Portugal  do  que 
os  portLigLieses,  nem  institui^ao  ou  Governo  pode  haver  que  melhor  os 
defenda  do  que  o Governo  da  Na^ao.” 

1 5:  “Tern  muita  forija  quern  tern  razao  e quern  nao  da  contra  si  mesmo 
razao  aos  outros.” 

N®  16:  “Para  elevar  e robustecer,  engrandecer  as  na^oes  e preciso  alimentar 
na  alma  colectiva  as  grandes  certezas  e contrapor  as  tendencias  de  disso- 
lu^ao  propositos  fortes,  nobres  exemplos,  costumes  morigerados.” 

N°  17:  “E  impossiVel  valer  socialmente  tanto  o que  edifica  como  o que 
desmoraliza,  os  criadores  de  energias  civicas  ou  morals  e os  sonhadores 
nostalgicos  do  abatimento  e da  decadencia.” 

N®  18:  “Portugal  nao  perturba  a paz  do  Mundo  nem  a ninguem  pode 
permitir  que  perturbe  a sua.” 

No  19.  “Nenhum  de  nos — nacionalista  e amante  do  seu  Pais — faz  pro- 
fissao  de  nacionalismo  agressivo,  exclusivo,  odioso,  antes,  se  apega  a no^ao 
de  patria,  e que  compreende,  por  instinto  do  corac;ao  e por  imposiq:ao  da 
inteligencia,  que  o piano  nacional  e ainda  o melhor  para  a vida  e os  inte- 
resses  da  humanidade.” 

N®  20:  “Na  organiza^ao  das  corpora^oes  economicas  deve  ter-se  em  vista 
que  os  interesses  por  ela  prosseguidos,  ou  melhor,  os  interesses  da  pro- 
du^ao,  tern  de  subordinar-se  nao  so  aos  da  economia  nacional  no  seu  con- 
junto,  mas  tambem  a finalidade  espiritual  ou  destino  superior  da  Na^ao  e 
dos  individuos  que  a constituem.” 

N°  21:  “Demos  a Na^ao  optimismo,  alegria,  coragem,  fe  nos  sens  desti- 
nos;  retemperemos  a sua  alma  forte  ao  calor  dos  grandes  ideals,  e tomemos 
como  nosso  lema  esta  certeza  inabalavel:  Portugal  pode  ser,  se  nos  quiser- 
mos,  uma  grande  e prospera  Na^ao.” 

N®  22:  “Por  cima  da  nega^ao  do  que  ha  de  mais  evidente  e palpavel  na 
nossa  obra  brilhara  sempre  o despertar  da  consciencia  nacional,  o presti- 
gio  de  Portugal  no  Mundo:  por  toda  a parte  o orgulho  de  ser  portugues 
remora  o sangue  dos  portugueses  de  hoje  e permite  repousem  tranquilas 
no  tumulo  as  cinzas  heroicas  dos  portugueses  de  ontem.” 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  425 

N®  23:  “Agora,  como  em  todos  os  momentos  criticos,  e preciso  escolher, 
saber  escolher  e saber  sacrificar — o acidental  ao  essencial,  a materia  ao 
espirito,  a grandeza  ao  equilibrio,  a riqueza  a aquidade,  o desperdkio  a 
economia,  a luta  a coopera^ao.” 

N®  24:  “Nos  queremos  caminhar  para  uma  economia  nova  (italica  origi- 
nal), trabalhando  em  um'ssono  com  a natureza  humana,  sob  a autoridade 
dum  Estado  forte  que  defenda  os  interesses  superiores  da  Na(;ao,  a sua 
riqueza  e o seu  trabalho,  tanto  dos  excessos  capitalistas  como  do  bolche- 
vismo  destruidor.” 

N°  25:  “Ha  alguns  anos  que  ja  a nossa  politica  deixou  felizmente  de  ser  o 
reflexo  de  dois  ou  tres  outros  pafses.  A experiencia  feita  tern  demonstrado 
que  a hora  nao  e das  direitas  nem  das  esquerdas:  a hora  e de  quern  sabe  o 
que  quer  e quer  na  verdade  realizar  o seu  ideal  politico.” 

N°  26:  “Quando  estivermos  bem  compenetrados  de  que  a alian^a  com  a 
Inglaterra  nao  e nem  uma  tutela  nem  uma  fian^a  da  nossa  a9ao  politica 
interna  ou  externa,  nao  recearemos  as  atitudes  equiVocas  ou  subservientes 
nem  a diminui9ao  da  nossa  a^ao  internacional,  antes  havemos  de  trabalhar 
por  valorizar  ao  maximo  aquele  apreciavel  instrumento  politico:  visto  que 
temos  de  dar,  havemos  de  saber  exigir.” 

N°  27:  “Nos  queremos  ir  na  satisfa^ao  das  reivindica^oes  operarias,  dentro 
da  ordem,  da  justi^a  e do  equilibrio  nacional,  ate  onde  nao  foram  capazes 
de  ir  outros  que  prometeram  chegar  ate  o fim.” 

N°  28:  “Ha  uma  gera^ao  sacrificada  ao  futuro  da  Patria — a nossa  gera^ao.” 

N®  29:  “A  autoridade  e um  facto  e uma  necessidade:  so  desaparece  para 
se  reconstituir,  so  se  combate  para  a entregar  a outras  maos.  E um  direito 
e um  dever — dever  que  se  nega  a si  proprio  se  se  nao  exerce,  direito  que 
tern  no  bem  comum  o seu  maior  fundamento.  E ainda  um  alto  dom  da 
Providencia,  porque  sem  ela  nem  seria  possivel  a vida  social  nem  a Civili- 
za^ao  humana.” 

N®  30:  “O  nosso  espirito  esta  aberto  as  mais  largas  reformas  no  campo 
economico  e social;  so  fazemos  exce^ao  das  que  desconhe^am  o principio 
da  hierarquia  dos  valores  e dos  interesses  e da  mais  perfeita  conjuga9ao 
destes  dentro  da  unidade  nacional.” 

N°  31:  “A  riqueza,  os  bens,  a produ9ao  nao  constituem  em  si  proprios 
fins  a atingir;  tern  de  realizar  o interesse  individual  e o interesse  colectivo; 
nada  significam  se  nao  estao  condicionados  a conserva9ao  e eleva9ao  da 
vida  humana.” 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRI'GUEZ 


426 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


N°  32:  “Nenhum  bem  me  parece  exceder  para  as  nagoes  a estabilidade  de 
Governos  capazes:  se  a permanencia  dos  nulos  se  assemelha  a estagna^ao, 
e ainda  pior  o rapido  desfile  de  sumidades  com  seus  farrapos  de  ideias  e 
pianos  e seus  empurroes  descompassados  na  maquina  governativa.” 

N®  33:  “Ha  na  vida  das  sociedades  modernas  uma  crise  mais  grave  do  que 
a crise  da  moeda,  e dos  cambios,  e do  credito,  e dos  pre^os,  e das  finan^as 
publicas,  mais  grave  porque  e mae  de  todas  elas — e a crise  do  pensamento  eco- 
nomico,  diremos,  a crise  dos  principios  informadores  da  vida  economica.” 
N°  34:  “A  adula^ao  das  massas  pela  cria^ao  do  ‘povo  soberano’  nao  deu 
ao  povo,  como  agregado  nacional,  nem  influencia  na  marcha  dos  negocios 
publicos,  nem  aquilo  de  que  o povo  mais  precisa — soberano  ou  nao — que 
e ser  bem  governado.” 

N°  35:  “Vamos  conseguindo  com  seguran^a  o metodo,  na  sequencia  da 
nossa  politica  realista  e por  meio  da  nossa  organiza^ao  corporativa,  o 
que  revolucionariamente  nao  pode  ser  executado  ainda  que  prometido,  e 
mais  longe  iremos  ainda,  quando  pudermos  nao  so  anunciar  nos  discur- 
sos  ou  inscrever  nas  leis,  mas  efetivar,  na  pratica,  os  dois  maiores  direitos 
que  ao  homem  podem  ser  assegurados:  o direito  ao  trabalho  e o direito 
a instru^ao — o pao  do  corpo  e do  espirito  para  todos  os  portugueses  de 
boa  vontade.” 

N°  36:  “Advoguei  sempre  uma  politica  de  administra^ao,  tao  clara  e tao 
simples  como  a pode  fazer  qualquer  boa  dona  de  casa — politica  comezinha 
e modesta  que  consiste  em  gastar  bem  o que  se  possui  e nao  se  despender 
mais  do  que  os  proprios  recursos.” 

N°  37:  “So  o espi'rito  do  mal  se  agita;  so  os  sem  patria  veem  com  odio 
renascer  e abrir  a flor  do  nosso  patriotismo,  afirmar-se  o nosso  sentido 
de  Na^ao,  multiplicarem-se  as  manifesta^oes  do  nosso  progresso  material 
e moral,  consolidar-se  a nossa  posi^ao  no  Mundo,  estabelecer-se  a paz 
interna  pela  Justi^a;  so  os  falsos  profetas  reincidem  nas  promessas  que 
nunca  cumpriram  e encarecem  despudoradamente  muitas  outras  que  nao 
poderiam  ser  cumpridas.” 

N°  38.  “A  nossa  posi^ao  relativamente  ao  comunismo  esta  fixada  e em 
rela9ao  aos  comunistas  tambem.  Contrariamente  ao  que  ele  faz  nao 
vamos  combate-lo  em  parte  alguma,  mas  aqui  nao  consentiremos  que  nos 
escravize  a nos.  Esta  politica  de  bondade  e tolerancia  tern  nas  fronteiras  e 
no  interior  o limite  imposto  pela  salva^ao  comum,  e esse  em  caso  algum 
sera  desrespeitado.” 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  427 

N°  39:  “Nos  e a Espanha  somos  dois  irmaos,  com  casa  separada  na  Penin- 
sula, tao  vizinhos  que  podemos  falar-nos  das  janelas,  mas  seguramente 
mais  amigos  porque  independentes  e ciosos  da  nossa  autonomia.” 

N°  40:  “O  Estado  nao  deve  ser  o senhor  da  riqueza  nacional  em  colocar-se 
em  condi^oes  de  ser  corrompido  por  ela.  Para  ser  arbitro  superior  entre 
todos  os  interesses  e preciso  nao  estar  manietado  por  alguns.” 

N**  41:  “Nao  ha  sindicato  onde  nao  existe  espirito  corporativo,  conscien- 
cia  do  valor  do  trabalho  e do  lugar  que  ocupa  no  conjunto  da  produ^ao, 
compreensao  da  necessidade  de  cooperar  com  todos  os  outros  factores 
para  o progresso  da  economia  nacional.  Onde  tais  qualidades  nao  existem, 
mas  so  o espirito  da  luta  de  classe,  nao  temos  verdadeiramente  o sindicato, 
temos  a associa9ao  revolucionaria,  a for^a  ao  servi^o  da  desordem.” 

N®  42:  “Quern  e contra  a Na^ao  nao  pode  ser  militar.” 

N®  43:  “O  Estado  Novo  deve  ser  bem  forte  e resistente  para  dominar  as 
correntes  revolucionarias,  assegurar  a unidade  nacional,  coordenar  a ativi- 
dade  de  todos  os  elementos,  enfim,  empreender  e fomentar  a verdadeira 
revolu^ao  que  tern  de  ser  esbo^ada  por  estas  geragoes  e prosseguida  pelas 
que  Ihe  sucederem.” 

N®  44:  “Se  muitos  homens  nao  disporem  para  viver  de  mais  nada  senao 
do  potencial  do  seu  trabalho,  duas  conclusoes  se  impoem:  uma  e que  e 
preciso  organizar  a economia  nacional  de  modo  a terem  trabalho  os  tra- 
balhadores;  outra  e que  o trabalho  tern  de  ser  regulado  e organizado  por 
forma  que  o salario  permita  aos  trabalhadores  viver,” 

N*’  45:  “A  heran^a  e o reflexo  na  propriedade  do  instinto  de  perpetuidade 
da  ra9a;  transmite-se  com  o sangue  o fruto  do  trabalho,  da  economia, 
quantas  vezes  de  grandes  priva9oes.” 

N®  46:  “A  Na9ao  e para  nos  uma  e eterna;  nela  nao  existem  classes  privile- 
giadas,  nem  classes  diminuidas.  O povo  somos  nos  todos,  mas  a igualdade 
nao  se  opoe  e a justi9a  exige  que  onde  ha  maiores  necessidades  ai  seja 
maior  a solicitude:  nao  se  e justo  quando  se  nao  e humano.” 

N°  47:  “A  solidariedade  de  interesses  que  esta  na  base  da  sociedade  obriga 
cada  um  de  nos  a contribuir  pela  inteligencia  ou  pela  a9ao  para  o patrimo- 
nio  comum:  o homem  que  nao  trabalha  lesa  todos  os  demais.” 

N°  48:  “Que  pena  me  faz  saber  aos  domingos  os  cafes  cheios  de  jovens, 
discutindo  os  misterios  e problemas  de  baixa  politica,  e ao  mesmo  tempo 
ver  deserto  esse  Tejo  maravilhoso  sem  que  nele  remem  e velejem,  sob  o ceu 
incomparavel,  aos  milhares,  os  filhos  deste  Pais  de  marinheiros!” 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRIGUEZ 


428 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


N°  49:  “A  ordem  e a perf-eita  corregao  dos  processos  financeiros  sao,  alem 
de  condi^ao  esscncial  do  nosso  ressurgimento,  garantia  da  independencia 
e integridade  da  Patria.” 

N°  50:  “.\lheios  a todos  os  conluios,  nao  vendemos,  nao  cedemos,  nao 
arrendamos,  nao  partilhamos  as  nossas  colonias,  com  reserva  ou  sem 
ela  de  qualquer  parcela  de  soberania  nominal  para  satisfa^ao  dos  nossos 
brios  patrioticos.  Nao  no-lo  permitem  as  nossas  leis  constitucionais;  e,  na 
ausencia  destes  textos,  nao  no-lo  permitiria  a consdencia  nacional.” 

N°  5 1 : “E  na  verdade  com  o mesmo  criterio  de  Na9ao,  agregado  social  dife- 
renciado,  independente,  soberano,  estatuindo,  como  entende,  a divisao  e 
organiza^ao  do  sen  territorio,  sem  distin^oes  de  situagao  geografica,  que 
nos  consideramos,  administramos  as  colonias.  Tal  qual  como  o Minho  ou 
a Beira,  e,  sob  a autoridade  unica  do  Estado,  Angola  ou  Mozambique  ou  a 
India.  Somos  uma  unidade  juridica  e politica,  e desejamos  caminhar  para 
uma  unidade  economica,  tanto  quanto  possiVel  completa  e perfeita,  pelo 
desenvolvimento  da  producao  e intensa  permuta  das  materias  primas,  dos 
generos  alimenricios  e dos  produtos  manufacturados  entre  umas  e outras 
partes  deste  todo.” 

52:  “A  vida  Humana  tern  exigencias  miiltiplas  e e de  desejar  que  cada 
vez  tenha  mais.  Mas  nesta  via  ascendente  de  necessidades  e de  riquezas 
acumuladas  nao  deve  esquecer-se  que  nao  ha  progresso  quando  a vida  e 
mais  rica,  e so  quando  e mais  alta,  mais  nobre  na  sua  chama  interior  e na 
sua  projecao  externa.” 

N°  53:  “Tumultuam  a nossa  roda  bastos  egoismos,  vaidades,  ambicoes  de 
mando,  sofregos  interesses  individuais  que  nao  se  subordinam  e preten- 
dem  sobrepor-se  aos  interesses  da  colectividade;  e ha  muitos  milhares  de 
portugueses  que  oferecem  a sua  dedicacao  ao  bem  comum,  que  tomam  a 
defesa  deste  como  dever  onde  quer  que  se  Ihes  indique  o lugar  da  a^ao, 
trabalhando,  obedecendo,  servindo  (cursiva  original):  estamos  vendo  coi- 
sas  novas  em  Portugal.” 

N°  54:  “Ter  bem  presente  no  espirito  que  os  homens  vivem  em  condizoes 
diferentes  e que  esse  facto  se  opoe,  por  vezes  a que  seja  uma  realidade  a 
sua  igualdade  juridica;  proteger  o Estado  de  preferencia  aos  pobres  e aos 
fracos;  fomentar  a riqueza  geral  para  que  a todos  caiba  ao  menos  o neces- 
sario;  multiplicar  as  instituizoes  de  assistencia  e de  educazao  que  ajudem 
a elevar  as  massas  populates  a cultura,  ao  bem  estar  as  altas  situazoes  do 
Estado  e da  Nazao;  manter  nao  so  abertos,  mas  acessiVeis,  todos  os  qua- 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  429 

dros  a ascensao  livre  dos  melhores  valores  sociais — isto  e amar  o povo  e,  se 
a democracia  pode  ter  ainda  urn  bom  sentido,  isto  e ser  pela  democracia.” 

N®  55:  “A  revolu^ao  do  28  de  Maio  e vincadamente  popular — pela  sua 
preocupa(;ao  de  contacto  direto  com  a alma  do  povo  e de  satisfa^ao  das 
suas  instantes  necessidades.” 

N®  56:  “Portugal  e um  Estado  que  ama  a paz,  tern  o espi'rito  civiliza- 
dor,  colabora  no  fortalecimento  da  ordem  universal,  estigmatiza  a guerra 
ambiciosa,  perfilha  a arbitragem  para  a liquida^ao  das  questoes  entre  os 
Estados,  Integra  o seu  direito  publico  no  quadro  dos  fins  superiores  da 
humanidade,  e pretende  o desenvolvimento  harmonico,  pacifico,  produ- 
tivo,  das  faculdades  dos  cidadaos,  para  o aperfei^oamento  e progresso  das 
rela^oes  internas  e externas  da  Na^ao.” 

N°  57:  “Duma  civiliza^ao  que  regressa  cientificamente  a selva  separa-nos 
sem  remissao  o espiritualismo — fonte,  alma,  vida  da  nossa  Historia.  Fugi- 
mos  a alimentar  os  pobres  de  Husoes,  mas  queremos  a todo  o transe  pre- 
servar  da  onda  que  cresce  no  Mundo  a simplicidade  de  vida,  a pureza  dos 
costumes,  a do^ura  dos  sentimentos,  o equilibrio  das  rea^oes  sociais,  esse 
ar  familiar,  modesto  mas  digno  da  vida  portuguesa — e,  atraves  dessas  con- 
quistas  ou  reconquistas  das  nossas  tradi(;6es,  a paz  social.” 

N®  58:  “Temos  em  Portugal  sacrificado  muitas  vezes  demasiadas  coisas  a 
um  humanitarismo  que  desconhece  a justi9a  devida  a grande  massa  ino- 
cente,  vi'tima  constantemente  imolada  as  furias  dos  que  esse  humanita- 
rismo absolve.  Nos  podemos  perdoar  as  penas,  mas  nao  podemos  esquecer 
as  culpas,  e criminosos  seriamos  nao  deduzindo  dessa  generosa  atitude  a 
necessidade  duma  vigilancia  mais  atenta,  duma  seguran^a  mais  firme,  e 
duma  repressao  mais  severa,  se  factos  passados  viessem  a repetir-se.” 

N«  59;  “Nos  nao  compreenden'amos — nos  nao  poderiamos  admitir — 
que  a escola,  divorciada  da  Na^ao,  nao  estivesse  ao  servi^o  da  Na^ao,  e 
nao  compreendesse  o alti'ssimo  papel  que  Ihe  cabe  nesta  hora  de  ressur- 
gimento,  na  investiga^ao  e no  ensino,  a educar  os  portugueses  para  bem 
compreenderem  e bem  saberem  trabalhar.” 

N®  60:  “Operamos  com  prudencia  e seguran^a,  com  o metodo  nosso  ja 
conhecido,  uma  transforma^ao  profunda  na  essencia  e na  organica  do 
Estado;  fazemos  da  vida  economica  elemento  da  organiza^ao  politica; 
pomos  o trabalho,  seja  qual  for  a sua  forma,  entre  os  conceitos  basicos  da 
nova  vida  social  e fazemos  guerra  a todos  os  parasitismos,  a come^ar  pelo 
da  administra^ao  publica;  pretendemos  ordenar  a economia  nacional,  sal- 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRIGUEZ 


430 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


vagiiardando  a iniciativa  privada;  qiieremos  o nacionalismo  eni  economia, 
mantendo  a bencfica  concorrencia  dos  produtores  entre  si  e destes  com  os 
dos  paiscs  esrrangeiros;  tcndemos  a organiza^ao  de  todos  os  interesses  para 
a siia  defesa  e valoriza<;ao,  mas  qiieremos  o Estado  suficientemente  digno  e 
forte  para  nao  ser  corrompido  por  eles,  para  Ihes  nao  permitir  que  abusem 
da  SLia  for^a  e para  os  coordenar  em  ordem  a realiza^ao  conveniente  dos 
fins  superiores  dos  individuos  e da  Na^ao.” 

Salazar  y el  “pai's  mas  feliz  de  Europe" 

Este  catalogo  de  aforismos  politicos  es  una  prueba  mas  de  la  intensa  propaganda 
que,  en  general,  los  medios  de  comiinicacion  portugueses  realizaban  a favor  de 
la  imagen  piiblica  del  fundador  del  Estado  Novo.  Evidentemente,  se  trataba  de 
una  natural  respuesta  del  regimen  para  blindar  el  poder  y defender  la  estabilidad 
del  gobierno  en  torno  a la  indiscutible  figura  de  su  lider;  pero  tambien  hay  una 
clara  dinamica  retorica  de  culto  fascista  al  Jefe,  alrededor  del  cual  se  crea  una 
jerarquia  corporativa  y una  estratificacion  social  oficial  (Ramos  de  O,  Anos  de 
Ferro  137-145).  Esta  defensa  a ultranza  del  salazarismo  se  debia,  segun  el  organo 
oficial  del  gobierno  salazarista,  a que  “[...]  estamos  num  tempo  em  que  aqueles 
que  defendem  uma  ideologia  politica  de  salva^ao  e engrandecimento  nacional 
precisam  de  fazer  propaganda  intensa  e continua  dos  sens  principios  e convi- 
c^oes,  como  meio  de  defesa  propria,  de  esclarecimento  alheio  e de  oposi^ao  a 
propagandas  contrarias  de  doutrinas  desnacionalizadoras 

La  propaganda  salazarista  supo  aprovechar  muy  bien  las  circunstancias 
derivadas  de  los  acontecimientos  tragicos  de  Espana  entre  1936  y 1939  para 
resaltar  el  valor  patriotico  de  la  obra  de  Salazar  frente  a una  Espana  en  guerra. 
Esta  estrategia  retorica  establecio  tambien  una  relacion  directa  entre  los  exitos 
del  franquismo  y la  dictadura  portuguesa,  pues  el  discurso  politico  del  Estado 
Novo  insistia  en  que  la  fortaleza  politica  y economica  que  Salazar  habia  conse- 
guido  para  Portugal  antes  de  julio  de  1936  era  un  espejo  en  el  que  se  miraba  la 
“nueva”  Espana  de  Franco.  El  aparato  propagandistico  retrato,  ademas,  al  dic- 
tador  portugues  como  el  verdadero  artifice  del  triunfo  militar  del  franquismo 
sobre  los  “comunistas”  espanoles,  tal  y como  afirmaba  el  editorial  del  Didrio 
da  Manhd  al  cumplirse  un  ano  del  estallido  del  golpe  militar  espanol,  bajo  el 
titulo  “Ressurrei^ao  de  Espanha”: 


Como  portugueses,  nao  esque^amos  que  se  a Espanha  verdadeira  e nobre  foi 
possiVel  reerguer-se  e caminhar  isso  se  deve  a existencia  neste  canto  do  ocidente 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  431 

da  Peninsula  de  um  Portugal  tranquilo  e firme,  segura  garantia  de  que  a fogueira 
nao  podia  alastrar,  exemplo  bem  digno  de  seguir,  capaz  de  encorajar  e de  animar. 

So  assim  seremos  justos  para  nos  proprios,  so  assim  mostraremos  ao  Mundo,  que 
nos  admira,  que  somos  gratos  ao  chefe  que  nos  dirige  e nos  comanda,  que  somos, 
como  povo,  bem  dignos  de  tal  chefe.  Orgulhosos  da  nossa  for9a,  que  nao  e afron- 
tosa  para  ninguem,  e do  nosso  prestigio,  conquistado  alegremente  com  pequenos 
sacrifkios  bem  compensados,  estaremos  melhor  para  louvarmos  quantos  tern 
marcado  por  seu  esfor^o  admiravel  e heroico  na  defesa  da  civiliza^ao.^"^ 

La  prensa  portuguesa  utilize  sistematicamente  el  contraste  con  respecto  a 
la  convulsa  situacion  politica  de  Espana  para  provocar  el  espontaneo  agrade- 
cimiento  popular  a un  lider  que  habia  restaurado  la  dignidad  y la  grandeza  de 
Portugal.  De  acuerdo  con  esta  logica  retorica,  el  artkulo  publicado  por  Joao 
Ameal  (uno  de  los  intelectuales  mas  prestigiosos  del  regimen)  en  el  Didrio  da 
Manhd  el  8 de  octubre  de  1 936  retrata  con  precision  cual  es  el  escenario  penin- 
sular: “Enquanto  a Espanha  percorre,  com  gloria  amarga,  a custa  de  mil  vitimas 
e de  mil  catastrofes,  a via  dolorosa  da  Reconquista — Portugal  segue  a sua  mar- 
cha,  dia  a dia  mais  segura  e feliz,  na  vanguarda  das  na^oes  de  Europa.  O Estado 
Novo  representou  para  nos  economia  magm'fica  de  muitas  revolu^oes — ou, 
talvez,  do  pior  de  tudo:  da  guerra  civil.  Bastar-nos-a  o sofrimento  da  Espanha 
atual  para  compreendermos  o valor  extraordinario  deste  benefkio.”^^  Por  eso, 
el  periodista  Augusto  Lima  Junior  pedia  en  un  artkulo  publicado  en  el  Didrio 
de  Lisboa  la  solidaridad  de  los  portugueses  con  Salazar,  “sentinela  da  civiliza^ao 
crista  na  Peninsula  Iberica.”^^  “Nao  acredito  que  haja  um  linico  portugues,  seja 
qual  for  o seu  matiz  politico  ou  doutrinario,  que  nao  esteja  integralmente  iden- 
tificado  com  o governo  da  sua  patria,  nestes  dias  em  que  a torpeza  bolchevista 
procura  aviltar  o nome  eterno  de  Portugal.  Havera  um  linico  portugues  que  a 
esta  hora  nao  esteja  solidario  com  Salazar?  Nao!  Nao  acredito  na  existencia  de 
portugueses  sem  vergonha,”  decia  el  informador  salazarista.^^ 

Las  pruebas  de  adhesion  a la  dictadura  eran  constantes.  En  la  prensa 
portuguesa  o por  medio  de  manifestaciones  piiblicas  que  tenian  una  amplia 
cobertura  informativa,  Oliveira  Salazar  era  entronizado  como  el  gran  Salva- 
dor; no  solo  como  el  hombre  que  habia  evitado  al  pais  de  un  cruenta  guerra 
civil  como  la  espanola,  sino  tambien  el  hombre  que  habia  colocado  a Portugal 
entre  las  naciones  mas  poderosas  del  mundo.  En  definitiva,  el  “jefe”  portu- 
gues, al  que  cada  ano  se  le  rendian  homenajes  en  el  aniversario  de  su  llegada  al 
poder  (el  27  de  abril),^^  o durante  las  conmemoraciones  del  golpe  de  Estado 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRfGUEZ 


432 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


(el  28  de  niayo)'‘^  era,  segLin  el  intelectiial  franquista  espanol  ELigenio  Mon- 
tes, el  ejemplo  a segLiir  por  Espana.^^  El  escritor  falangista  Mauricio  Karl 
apunta  tambien  que,  al  margen  de  las  diferencias  logicas  de  cada  nacionali- 
dad,  Espana  debia  seguir  los  pasos  de  la  Revolu^ao  Nacional  portuguesa.  Karl 
testimonia  asi  lo  mucho  que  su  pais  debia  al  Portugal  de  Salazar,^ ^ por  el  que 
el  presidente  del  movimiento  tradicionalista  espanol  Renovacion  Espanola, 
Antonio  Goicoechea,  tambien  expresa  su  mas  profunda  admiracion.^^ 

La  propaganda  portuguesa  convierte  a Portugal  en  un  modelo  para  la  Espana 
del  general  Franco,  quien  tambien  reconocia,  en  una  entrevista  concedida  al 
periodista  Augusto  de  Castro  para  el  Didrio  de  Noticias  al  finalizar  la  guerra, 
que  era  Lin  admirador  de  Oliveira  Salazar  (CNLNRF  241).  Declaracion  que  era 
la  confirmacion  de  otras  afirmaciones  suyas  anteriores  en  las  que  mostraba  su 
intencion  de  construir  en  Espana  un  Estado  parecido  al  portugues. 

De  este  modo,  Salazar  se  transforma  en  el  guia  nacional,  desarrollando  una 
“genial”  poh'tica  internacional  respecto  de  la  Guerra  Civil  espanola.^^  Segun 
el  periodico  oficial  del  regimen,  el  lider  del  Estado  Novo  consiguio,  gracias 
a su  perspicacia  diplomatica,  adoptar  la  posicion  mas  digna  y conveniente 
para  Portugal  y para  Espana.^^  Tras  las  revueltas  internas  mas  graves  contra 
el  gobierno  autoritario  luso  durante  la  guerra  espanola,  ocurridas  el  8 de  sep- 
tiembre  de  1936,  el  20  de  enero  de  1937  y el  4 de  julio  de  este  mismo  ano,^^ 
hechos  que  la  propaganda  oficial  relaciono  directamente  con  los  “comunistas” 
espanoles,  la  figura  de  Salazar  salio  fortalecida. 

Antonio  Ferro,  en  el  prefacio  a la  edicion  alemana  de  uno  de  sus  libros  de 
propaganda,  reconocio  en  1938  la  influencia  fundamental  de  la  guerra  espa- 
nola en  la  fama  y carisma  de  Oliveira  Salazar,  que  consiguio  crear  la  unidad  de 
la  sociedad  portuguesa  gracias  al  peso  de  su  figura: 

Creio  nao  me  enganar  se  afirmo  que  a revolu^ao  espanhola  e a guerra  civil  muito 
contribui'ram  para  a uniao  de  todos  os  portugueses  em  volta  do  seu  Chefe  Salazar, 
e para  a consolida^ao  do  regime  por  ele  criado  [...].  Portugal  nao  tern,  lembremo- 
-nos  disso,  nenhuns  outros  vizinhos  alem  dos  espanhois  ; esta  isolado  entre  a 
Espanha  e o oceano.  Sente  carregar  sobre  si  todo  o peso  do  poderio  espanhol,  do 
qual  se  desligou  politicamente  desde  o fim  do  seculo  XI,  e esse  e o poderio  de 
um  grande  pais.  Lembremo-nos  disso,  pois  ha  certos  factos  e certos  numeros  que 
sempre  devemos  ter  diante  dos  olhos.  Portugal  e cinco  vezes  e meia  menor  do 
que  a Espanha;  a Espanha  conta  22  milhoes  de  habitantes  e Portugal  seis  milhoes 
e meio  [...].  O exemplo  da  Espanha  e a conspira<;ao  comunista,  que  felizmente 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  433 

falhou,  prestaram  a Portugal  e ao  seu  chefe  um  enorme  servi^o  de  orclem  nacional 
e moral.  Nao  puseram  apenas  um  fim  a oposi9ao  e nao  estimularam  apenas  os 
hesitantes,  mas  mostraram  ainda  em  que  elevado  grau  foi  Salazar  um  homem  pre- 
vidente,  quao  necessarias  foram  as  suas  reformas  e que  lance  extraordinariamente 
feliz  nao  significava  para  Portugal  ter  conseguido  levar  a cabo  a sua  reconstru9ao 
nacional  antes  da  implanta9ao  da  republica  na  Espanha.^*^ 

El  Didrio  de  Noticias  lo  explica  con  claridad  en  su  editorial  del  21  de  enero 
de  1937:  “A  Peninsula  Iberica  e hoje  um  campo  de  batalha  e Portugal,  quer  o 
queiram  quer  nao  os  covardes  e os  traidores,  constitui  agora  a retaguarda  de  um 
exercito  em  campanha.”^^  Con  un  mensaje  nacionalista,  se  colocaba  al  dictador 
como  victima  de  una  persecucion  del  comunismo  internacional,  que  pretendia 
derrocarlo  por  todos  los  medios  sin  exito.  Segun  Salazar,  los  verdaderos  agitado- 
res  del  pais  eran  los  agentes  espanoles  al  servicio  del  bando  leal  al  gobierno  de  la 
Republica  espanola  que  pretendian  exportar  la  guerra  a Portugal.^^ 

Segun  las  consignas  oficiales,  el  reviralhismo  odiaba  a Salazar  por  su  inde- 
pendencia  y por  sus  virtudes  como  gobernante.  El  Estado  Novo  aprovecho  las 
acciones  contra  Salazar  de  sus  opositores  para  transformarlo  en  un  martir  y un 
heroe  al  mismo  tiempo.  En  este  aspecto,  uno  de  los  momentos  en  los  que  la 
propaganda  fue  mas  intensa  fue  las  semanas  posteriores  al  atentado  terrorista 
que  los  anarquistas  portugueses  cometieron  contra  6\  el  4 de  julio  de  1937  en 
Lisboa  (Farinha,  Reviralho).  Joao  Silvestre  manifiesta  en  A Voz(\\it  la  bomba 
contra  el  dictador  llevaba  el  sello  del  gobierno  espanol:  “E  o mesmo  que  estao 
fazendo  os  vermelhos  de  Madrid  no  ataque  as  posi^es  nacionalistas  da  cidade 
universitaria.  E o que  fizeram  em  Carabanchel  e o que  tambem  fazem  em 
Bilbau  para  que  fosse  pelos  ares  a cidade,  a entrada  das  tropas  nacionalistas 
[...].  Quern  ensinou  estas  artes  aos  vermelhos  de  Madrid  devem  ter  sido  os 
mesmos  mestres  que  as  ensinaram  aos  conspiradores  de  Lisboa.  Los  fraca- 
sos  de  la  oposicion,  sumados  a los  relatos  periodisticos  que  hablaban  de  un 
Salazar  invencible  que  luchaba  por  proteger  a los  portugueses  del  marxismo 
y colaborar  con  los  espanoles  en  una  cruzada  diplomatica  y propagandistica 
sin  cuartel,  aumentaron  aiin  mas  el  carisma  del  lider  portugues,  convertido  en 
una  especie  de  hombre  de  hierro  con  un  corazon  de  oro. 

La  prensa  portuguesa  informa  que  esta  postura  merecio  el  reconocimiento 
de  medios  de  comunicacion  de  todo  el  mundo.  Citando  expresamente  aque- 
llos  periodicos  de  tendencia  conservadora  o fascista  que  elogiaban  su  poli- 
tica  exterior,  Salazar  es  caracterizado  como  uno  de  los  grandes  lideres  del 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRfGUEZ 


434 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


mundo.'^®  En  Chile, Alemania,'^^  Brasil, Canada,^^  Francia,^^  Polonia,^^  u 
otros  lugares,'^^  Salazar  gozaba  de  un  prestigio  infinito.^^ 

Salazar  es  transformado  en  un  hombre  con  la  reputacion  y poder  suficiente 
para  reivindicar  su  derecho  a infiuir  en  el  destine  de  Europa.  “A  figura  de  sr.  dr. 
Oliveira  Salazar  tornou-se  popular  no  estrangeiro  e o seu  nome  tao  conhecido 
e respeitado  como  um  dos  maiores  estadistas  da  atualidade,  que  nao  e rare  che- 
garem  noticias  ate  de  homenagens  que,  espontaneamente,  os  estrangeiros  Ihe 
prestam,”  dice  el  Didrio  de  Noticias?'^  Asimismo,  era  habitual  la  publicacion  de 
testimonies  de  intelectuales  o politicos  de  diferentes  paises  que  emitian  algiin 
juicio  laudatorio  sobre  el  lider  portugues,  cuyo  talento  politico  era  inigualable 
por  ningun  otro  gobernante,  segun  estas  versiones.  Para  el  intelectual  griego 
N.G.  Politis,  amigo  personal  de  Antonio  Ferro,  el  Estado  Novo  podia  muy 
bien  ser  el  reierente  fundamental  para  la  construccion  de  un  future  Estado 
europeo."^^  El  escritor  frances  Maurice  Maeterlinck,  autor  del  prologo  de  la 
edicion  francesa  de  los  Discursos  de  Oliveira  Salazar,  expresa  que  Salazar  estaba 
“vacinado  contra  o mal,”  ya  que  su  espiritu  era  un  “verdadeiro  laboratorio”  de 
utopias."^’  Belinda  Pogaetsky  confirma  que  la  “grande  obra  patriotica”  del  dic- 
tador  luso  alcanzaba  una  fama  mundial,  y Raymod  Recouly  resalta  su  discre- 
cion  y sinceridad  a pesar  de  todo."*^  Tambien  se  publican  las  palabras  de  Pierre 
Gaxotte,  que  describe  a Salazar  como  “uma  das  mais  nobres  figuras  e dos  mais 
profundos  pensadores  da  nossa  epoca!”"^^  Segiin  estas  semblanzas  hagiografi- 
cas,  el  dictador  portugues  era  el  guia  que  conducia  a su  pueblo  por  el  camino 
correcto.  Nada  en  el  era  imperfecto  y cuando  hablaba  o actuaba  lo  hacia  por  el 
bien  de  todos,  segiin  la  literatura  periodistica  del  regimen:  “Quando  dizemos 
que  fala  Portugal  nao  nos  servimos  apenas  duma  metafora;  porque  quando  fala 
Salazar  fala  Portugal  e quando  Portugal  fala — o ouvem.”'^'^ 

Para  anular  el  efecto  de  las  criticas  que  dirigian  muchos  otros  intelectuales 
o periodicos  de  los  paises  democraticos  europeos  a Salazar  por  la  vulneracion 
de  la  neutralidad  en  el  conflicto  espanol  y su  descarado  apoyo  a los  rebeldes 
franquistas,  los  diarios  salazaristas  los  desautorizaban  catalogando  esos  comen- 
tarios  como  propaganda  comunista."^^  La  mitificacion  del  dictador  portu- 
gues, cuyo  nombre  era  utilizado  para  bautizar  bibliotecas  en  la  universidad,"^^ 
aviones,"^^  escuelas  militares"^^  o trofeos  deportivos,"^^  se  basaba  tambien  en 
el  reconocimiento  publico  que  le  tributaban  instituciones  o medios  de  comu- 
nicacion  extranjeros.  Las  noticias  de  homenajes,  tanto  dentro  como  fuera  de 
Portugal,  a la  figura  de  Oliveira  Salazar  eran  permanentes  en  la  segunda  mitad 
de  los  anos  treinta.  Entre  otras  distinciones,  Salazar  fue  nombrado  doctor 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION  435 

Honoris  Causa  en  Niieva  York  por  la  prestigiosa  universidad  catolica  de  Ford- 
ham  en  junio  de  1938^®  y socio  honorario  del  Instituto  dos  Advogados  Brasi- 
leiros  un  ano  antes.^’  Sus  meritos  eran  incontestables  y su  forma  de  gobernar 
un  ejemplo  a seguir.^^  “A  Na^ao  tern  plena  conflan^a  na  inteligencia  e na  agao 
do  sr.  Presidente  do  Conselho  porque  conhece  e aprecia  os  frutos  abiindan- 
tes  e ricos  da  sua  politica  construtiva;  o estrangeiro  admira  e respeita  a sua 
obra  porque  ela  representa  a prova  concludente  de  que  as  na^oes  sao  sempre 
curaveis  desde  que  sejam  bem  governadas.”^^  Portugal  era  un  pai's  sano  en 
una  Europa  “enferma”  gracias  a los  milagros  de  su  dictador,  segun  el  Didrio 
de  Noticias}^  Opinion  que  el  escultor  danes  Jean  Ganguin  lleva  incluso  mas 
lejos  afirmando  que  la  nacion  peninsular  era  “o  pais  mais  feliz  da  Europa. 

Este  tipo  de  comentarios  irritaban  profundamente  a los  opositores,  que  en 
alguna  ocasion  mostraron  su  perplejidad  por  la  actitud  aduladora  de  algunos 
diarios  dirigiendo  cartas  a sus  duenos  o directores.  Una  de  las  misivas  fue 
enviada  al  director  del  Didrio  de  Nottcias,  Eduardo  Schwalbach,  al  que  se 
reprochaba  en  tono  amenazante  la  actitud  sumisa  de  su  periodico  con  Salazar: 

O seu  pasquim  ate  mete  nojo.  Nao  se  pode  set  mais  baixo  nem  mais  miseravelmente 
adulador.  Se  os  artigos  nao  vem  firmados  por  voce,  sao  contudo  da  sua  responsa- 
bilidade.  Nunca  vi  incensar  tao  servilmente.  Pasmo  do  cinismo  de  que  da  provas. 

Afinal  quern  e o Salazar?  Um  astucioso  como  qualquer  outro.  Que  tern  ele  que 
outro  nao  fizesse?  Nada.  Absolutamente  nada.  Voces  os  aduladores  mesquinhos  sao 
uns  canalhoes,  mas  talvez  nao  venha  tarde  o tempo  em  que  se  hao-de  retratar  como 
qualquer  transfuga.  As  baboseiras  que  voce  tern  publicado  so  servem  para  aumentar 
o odio  e indigna^ao  daqueles  que  nao  sabem  rastejar  aos  pes  de  qualquer  ambicioso 
astuto.  Tome  cuidado  com  o futuro,  que  talvez  se  arrependa. . 

Conclusiones 

El  discurso  politico  de  Salazar  tuvo  una  extraordinaria  importancia  propagan- 
distica  para  el  adoctrinamiento  de  la  sociedad  portuguesa  y su  identificacion 
con  las  consignas  del  Estado  Novo.  Salazar  trasladaba  a la  opinion  publica  de 
manera  periodica,  sistematica  y orquestada  a traves  del  control  de  los  medios 
de  comunicacion  su  punto  de  vista  sobre  todos  los  acontecimientos  de  trascen- 
dencia  publica  que  podian  tener  consecuencias  para  la  consolidacion  de  su  pro- 
yecto  politico,  con  instrucciones  precisas  sobre  la  manera  de  actuar  en  cada  caso. 

Sus  discursos  eran  una  especie  de  “homilias  patrioticas”  cargadas  de  un  enorme 
paternalismo,  de  las  que  el  aparato  de  propaganda  del  regimen,  dirigido  por  el 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRIGUEZ 


436 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


litcmto  Antonio  Ferro,  extrafa  y publicaba  aquellos  aforismos  o lemas  que  flin- 
cionaban  como  autenticas  consignas  ideologicas  para  la  sociedad  portuguesa. 

Una  de  las  acciones  mas  singulares  de  la  propaganda  salazarista  fue  plani- 
ficada  con  la  participacion  de  los  principals  medios  periodi'sticos  del  Estado 
Novo,  el  Didrio  da  Manhdy  la  Emissora  Nacional,  que  organizaron  en  1937 
un  concurso  nacional  sobre  las  frases  mas  brillantes  de  Salazar.  Las  normas 
del  concurso  obligaban  a los  concursantes  a reunir  durante  dos  meses,  una 
a una,  60  Irases  politicas  del  li'der  portugues,  entre  las  que  los  concursantes 
seleccionaban  la  que  representaba  mas  claramente  los  preceptos  ideologicos 
de  SLi  modelo  politico.  El  aforismo  elegido  fue  “Tudo  pela  Nacao,  Nada  con- 
tra a Nacao,”  que  se  convirtio  en  la  principal  divisa  ideologica  del  salazarismo. 

Quizas  el  momento  historico  mas  relevante  en  la  forja  del  discurso  sala- 
zarista ocurrio  durante  la  guerra  civil  espanola,  durante  la  cual  la  propaganda 
del  Estado  Novo  se  esforzo  por  construir  una  imagen  heroica  de  un  Salazar 
victima  del  comunismo  internacional,  capaz  de  conser\^ar  la  paz  en  Portugal  y 
de  convertirse  en  ejemplo  para  la  nueva  Espana  de  Franco  y Europa. 

Gracias  a esta  politica  de  culto  a su  retorica  propagandistica,  que  engran- 
decio  su  figura  y transformo  sus  palabras  en  una  suerte  de  fuente  de  verdad 
sagrada,  Salazar  paso  a ser  un  heroe  nacional  practicamente  infalible  en  su 
diagnostico  de  la  realidad.  Lo  que  decia  no  podia  ser  cuestionado:  era  la  pala- 
bra  del  dictador,  la  retorica  del  poder. 


Notes 

' Sobre  el  Estado  Novo  hay  una  abundance  bibliografia.  Una  de  las  obras  mas  actuales,  que 
recoge  un  extenso  analisis  sobre  las  investigaciones  publicadas  sobre  este  campo  de  estudio  es 
la  de  Luis  Reis  Torgal:  Estados  novos,  Estado  Novo.  2^  ed.  2 vols.  Coimbra:  Imprensa  da  Uni- 
versidade,  2009.  Impreso.  Para  tener  un  conocimiento  cronologico  sobre  el  pen'odo  del  Estado 
Novo,  puede  consultarse  tambien:  Fernando  Castro  Brandao.  Estado  Novo.  Uma  cronologia. 
Lisboa;  Livros  Horizonte,  2008.  Impreso.  Para  conocer  los  personalidades  y las  instituciones 
del  Estado  Novo,  vease:  Fernando  Rosas,  y J.  M.  Brandao  Brito  (eds).  Diciondrio  de  Historia  do 
Estado  Novo.  2 vols.  Lisboa:  Bertrand  Editora,  1996.  Impreso.  Y para  conocer  la  figura  politica 
de  Salazar  vease:  Luis  Filipe  Ribeiro  de  Meneses.  Salazar.  Uma  biografia  politica.  Lisboa:  Dom 
Quixote,  2010.  Impreso. 

“ Para  comprender  en  toda  su  extension  la  importancia  estrategica  del  Secretariado  de  Pro- 
paganda Nacional  (SPN)  pueden  consultarse  las  siguientes  obras:  Jorge  Ramos  De  O.  Os  anos 
de  Eerro.  O dispositive  cultural  durante  a “politica  do  espirito”  1933-1949.  Lisboa:  Estampa,  1999. 
Impreso;  Heloisa  Paulo.  Estado  Novo  e propaganda  em  Portugal  e no  Brasil.  O SPN/SNI  e o DIP. 
Coimbra:  Minerva,  1994.  Impreso;  y Goffredo  Adinolfi.  Ai  confini  del  fascismo.  Propaganda  e 
consenso  nel  Portogallo  salazarista  (1932-1944).  Milano:  Franco  Angeli,  2007.  Impreso. 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


437 


^ Didrio  da  Manha  14  Ene.  1938  [2418]:  1.  Impreso. 

^ OSkuloll  khx.  1938  [20154]:  5.  Impreso. 

^ O SeculodQ  Mayo  [20186]:  12.  Impreso. 

Salazar  publico  en  Coimbra  sucesivas  ediciones  de  todos  sus  discursos  politicos,  con  un 
notable  exito  de  publico.  Las  referencias  son  las  siguientes:  Antonio  de  Oliveira  Salazar.  Discursos  e 
notas  politicos.  5^  ed.  Vol.  1.  Coimbra:  Coimbra  Editora,  1946.  Impreso;  2^  ed.  Vol.  2.  Coimbra: 
Coimbra  Editora,  1959.  Impreso;  2^  ed.  Vol.  3.  Coimbra:  Coimbra  Editora,  1961.  Impreso. 

^ El  SPN  contribuyo  a la  difusion  del  pensamiento  salazarista  mediante  la  creacion  de  los 
premios  literarios,  que  reconodan  principalmente  aquellas  obras  literarias  que  se  amoldaban  a 
los  presupuestos  ideologicos  del  regimen,  dentro  de  la  denominada  “politica  do  espirito.”  Para 
mas  detalles  sobre  esta  cuestion  puede  consultarse  el  libro  del  que  es  autor  el  que  fue  director 
del  SPN  desde  su  fundacion,  Antonio  Ferro,  titulado  A politica  do  espirito  e os  premios  literarios 
do  SPN.  Lisboa:  Edi^oes  SPN,  1935.  Impreso.  Para  un  analisis  academico  sobre  los  premios  lit- 
erarios del  SPN  puede  leerse  en  el  libro  de  Rui  Pedro  Pinto.  Premios  do  espirito.  Um  estudo  sobre 
os  premios  literarios  do  Secretariado  de  Propaganda  Nacional  do  Estado  Novo.  Lisboa:  Imprensa  de 
Ciencias  Sociais,  2008.  Impreso. 

Antonio  Ferro  (1895—1957)  tuvo  una  trayectoria  intelectual  muy  singular.  Desde  muy  tem- 
prana  edad,  manifesto  sus  dotes  literarias  y su  debilidad  por  el  periodismo;  se  vinculo  al  mov- 
imiento  modernista  portugues;  fue  editor  de  la  revista  modernista  Orpheu  (1915)  y publico,  en 
esta  primera  etapa,  varias  obras,  como  Misal de  trovas  ( 1 9 1 2)  o Cartas  do  Marinho  (1919),  que  era 
una  coleccion  de  sus  cronicas  publicadas  en  O Seculo.  Despues  de  una  estancia  en  Angola  como 
miliciano,  vuelve  a Portugal  con  una  disposicion  mas  participativa  en  la  vida  politica,  haciendo 
una  defensa  del  nacionalismo  y a favor  de  la  intervencion  del  Estado  en  la  cultura.  En  1921, 
dirige  la  revista  Ilustragao  Portuguesa,  donde  queda  patente  su  caracter  nacionalista.  En  1922  se 
establece  en  Brasil,  desde  donde  trabaja  como  cn'tico  teatral  del  Didrio  de  Lisboa  y escribe  su 
obra  dramatica  Mar  alto.  A su  vuelta,  en  1924,  hace  sonadas  entrevistas  a dictadores,  militares  e 
intelectuales  nacionalistas  europeos  para  O Seculo  y e\  Didrio  de  Noticias,  entre  los  cuales  estaban 
Mussolinni,  Miguel  Primo  de  Rivera,  el  general  Petain,  Gabriel  d’Annuncio,  o Clemenceau, 
que  fueron  recogidas  en  su  libro  Viagen  a volta  das  ditaduras.  Su  obra  politica  se  veria  ampliada 
con  Prefdcio  a republica  espanhola  (1933),  en  la  que  pretende  hacer  una  radiografia  de  la  vida 
publica  espanola  mediante  la  descripcion  de  algunos  de  sus  ilustres  personajes,  como  Marcelino 
Domingo,  Jose  Ortega  y Gasset,  Indalecio  Prieto  o Miguel  de  Unamuno.  Entonces  Ferro  ya 
se  sentia  identificado  con  el  proyecto  salazarista  y,  en  1932,  publica  una  serie  de  entrevistas  a 
Salazar  en  el  Didrio  de  Noticias  recogidas  en  Salazar.  O homem  e a sua  obra  (1933),  que  alcanzo 
numerosas  ediciones  en  varios  idiomas.  En  1933,  Ferro  asume  la  direccion  del  Secretariado  de 
Propaganda  Nacional  (SPN),  a traves  del  que  pone  en  practica  su  proyecto  intervencionista  en  el 
arte  y la  cultura  portuguesa.  En  1935,  desde  el  SPN,  crea  el  Cinema  Popular  Ambulante  y,  poco 
despues,  elTeatro  do  Povo.  Fue  director  del  SPN  entre  1933  y 1945,  y del  Secretariado  Nacional 
de  Informa9ao  (refundacion  del  SPN)  desde  entonces  hasta  1950.  Otras  de  sus  obras,  ademas  de 
las  ya  citadas,  son:  A Fe  e o imperio  (1935)  y Homens  e multidoes  . Referencias  academicas 

ineludibles  sobre  Antonio  Ferro  son:  Ernesto  Castro  Leal.  Antonio  Ferro.  Espaqo  politico  e imag- 
indrio  social  (1918—1932).  Lisboa:  Edi^oes  Cosmos,  1994.  Impreso;  Raquel  Pereira  Henriques. 
Antonio  Ferro.  Estudo  e antologia.  Lisboa:  Alfa  (Testemunhos  Contemporaneos),  1990.  Impreso; 
Fernanda  de  Castro.  Ao  fim  da  memoria  (1906-1997).  2 vols.  Verbo:  Lisboa,  1988.  Impreso;  y 
Cesar  Oliveira.  A preparagao  do  28  de  Maio.  Antonio  Ferro  e a propaganda  do  fascismo  1920-1926. 
Lisboa:  Moraes  Editores,  Pistas  Passado/Presente,  1980.  Impreso. 

^ Didrio  da  Manha  M Mar.  1937  [2134]:  8.  Impreso. 

^ Didrio  da  Manha  2\  Mar.  1937  [2125]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manha  2\  Mar.  1937  [2125]:  1.  Impreso. 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRI'GUEZ 


438 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Didrto  (Li  Manha  16  Jul.  1937  [2240]:  3-5.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  18  Mayo  1939  [26319]:  1.  Impreso. 

'■'  Didrio  (Li  Manhd  1\  Mayo  1937  [2184]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  18  Jul.  1937  [2242]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  ^ Oct.  1936  [1966]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Lisboa  16  Oct.  1936  [4998]:  2.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Lisboa  16  Oct.  1936  [4998]:  2.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  27  Abr.  1937  [25583]:  1.  Impreso. 

’’  El  Didrio  da  Manhd  pnhWco  en  la  celebracion  de  1938  un  suplemento  especial  dedicado  a 
la  Revolu^ao  Nacional  de  156  paginas.  Cf.:  Didrio  da  Manhd 2‘y  Mayo  1938  [2548].  Impresso. 

O Seculo  15  Mayo  1937  [19813]:  6.  Impreso. 

O Seculo  24  Aoo.  1936  [19556]:  5.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Lisboa  50  Die.  1936  [5070]:  4.  Impreso. 

Sobre  Portugal  y la  Guerra  Civil  espanola  pueden  verse  las  siguientes  referencias  bibliogra- 
ficas:  Iva  Delgado.  Portugal  e a Guerra  Civil  de  Espanha.  Lisboa:  Publica(;6es  Europa-America, 
s.  d.  Impreso;  Cesar  Oliveira.  Salazar  e a Guerra  Civil  de  Espanha.  2^  ed.  Lisboa,  Edigoes  O 
Jornal,  1988.  Impreso;  Alberto  Pena.  Salazar,  a imprensa  e a Guerra  Civil  de  Espanha.  Coimbra: 
Minerva,  2007.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  16  Abr.  1937  [2150]:  3.  Impreso. 

El  8 de  septiembre  de  1 936  se  produjo  la  revuelta  de  los  marineros  en  tres  barcos  de  guerra 
portugueses:  el  Afonso  de  Alburquerque,  Bartomoleu  Dias  y el  Dao.  El  20  de  enero  de  1937,  ocurrio 
el  atentado  anarquista  contra  varios  edificios  del  gobierno  o empresas  privadas  de  Lisboa,  entre  ellos 
el  Ministerio  do  Interior,  la  Emissora  Nacional  y el  Radio  Club  Portugu^.  El  4 de  julio  de  1937  los 
anarquistas  volvieron  a atentar,  esta  vez  contra  el  mismisimo  Oliveira  Salazar,  que  salio  ileso. 

Arquivo  Oliveira  Salazar/ Arquivos  Nacionais  Torre  do  Tombo,  CO/PC- 12,  Pasta  n°  1, 
19^  subdivision,  hojas  n°  47-52.  “Actividade  informativa  e de  propaganda  do  Secretariado  de 
Propaganda  Nacional  (1933-1943).”  Prefacio  de  Antonio  Ferro  a la  edicion  alemana  de  uno  de 
sus  libros,  sin  especificar  (1938). 

Didrio  de  Noticias  2\  Ene.  1937  [25489]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  W Sep.  1936  [1940]:  1.  Impreso. 

A Jul.  1937  [3724]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  13  Sep.  1936  [25363]:  5.  Impreso. 

A Voz22  Die.  1936  [3533]:  6.  Impreso.  El  periodico  dirigido  por  Fernando  de  Souza  cita 
un  artkulo  publicado  por  el  ministro  de  Finanzas  chileno,  Roberto  Meeks,  titulado  “Salazar, 
dictador  impersonal,”  diciendo  que  es  “motivo  de  orgulho  para  a latinidade.”  A Voz  se  refiere 
tambien  a articulos  de  intelectuales  como  el  escritor  Eduardo  Barrios. 

O Seculo  5 ]\xn.  1937  [19832]:  1-2.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  5 Nov.  1936  [25415]:  4.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  5\  Ene.  1937  [2078]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  ManhdG  Die.  1936  [2025]:  1,  7.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  16  Ene.  1937  [2063]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  25  Mar.  1937  [2127]:  8.  Impreso. 

La  delegacion  de  Oporto  de  la  Uniao  Nacional  edito  en  1949  un  libro  que  recogia  opin- 
iones  y testimonios  de  eminentes  personalidades  y periodistas  de  diversos  paises  en  la  prensa 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


439 


internacional  sobre  Oliveira  Salazar,  entre  1928  y 1948.  Vease  el  libro  Projecgdo  de  Salazar  no 
estrangeiro  (1928-1948).  Porto:  Uniao  Nacional  do  Porto,  1949.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Nottcias  29  ]\x\.  1936  125317]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Lisboa  29  Nov.  1936  [5042]:  4.  Impreso. 

O Seculo  1 Mar.  1937  [19739]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  2G  Feb.  1937  [25523]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  1 1 Die.  1937  [2386]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  2A]nn.  1937  [2218]:  1.  Impreso. 

^5  O Seculo  2G  Ene.  1937  [19707]:  1.  Impreso. 

O Primeiro  de  Janeiro  26  Abr.  1938  [115]:  1.  Impresso;  O Seculo  30  Abr.  1937  [19799]: 
1 . Impresso.  La  “Sala  Salazar”  de  la  Universidad  de  Porto  recibio  importantes  aportaciones  bib- 
liograficas  de  la  embajada  alemana  e italiana. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  2>  Abr.  1937  [2227]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  A ]\A.  1938  [2585]:  6.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  2)\  Jul.  1938  [2612]:  8.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd 22  ]\xn.  1938  [2573]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  \2>  ]nn.  1937  [2207]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  G A^o.  1936  [25325]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  da  Manhd  18  Ene.  1937  [2065]:  1.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  1 1 Mar.  1939  [26252]:!.  Impreso. 

Didrio  de  Noticias  2G  Nov.  1936  [25436]:  2.  Impreso. 

Arquivo  Oliveira  Salazar/ Arquivos  Nacionais  Torre  do  Tombo  (AOS/ANTT),  CO/ 
PC-3G,  Carpeta  n°  1,4®  subdivision,  hojas  n°  11  y 12.  Carta  anonima  enviada  al  director  del 
Didrio  de  Noticias,  09/07/ 1 937. 


Obras  Citadas 

Adinolfi,  Goffredo.  Ai  conjini  del  fascismo.  Propaganda  e consenso  nel  Portogallo  salazarista 
(1932—1944).  Milano:  Franco  Angeli,  2007.  Impreso. 

Comissao  Nacional  do  Livro  Negro  para  o Regime  Fascista  [CNLNRF].  Correspondencia  de 
Pedro  Teotonio  Pereira  para  Oliveira  Salazar  (1931-1939).  Vol.  1.  Lisboa:  Presidencia  do 
Conselho  de  Ministros,  1987.  Impreso. 

Farinha,  Luis.  O reviralho.  Revoltas  republicanas  contra  a ditadura  e o Estado  Novo  1926-1940. 
Lisboa:  Editorial  Estampa,  1998.  Impreso. 

Martins,  Moises  de  Lemos.  O olho  de  Deus  no  discurso  salazarista.  Porto:  Edi^oes  Afrontamento, 
1990.  Impreso. 

Matos,  Helena.  Salazzir.  A constru^do  do  mito  (1928-1933).  Lisboa:  Ci'rculo  de  Lectores-Temas 
& Debates,  2010.  Impreso. 

Mendes,  Victor  K.  “Justifying  Dictatorship:  The  Dictator  Salazar  in  1930  and  the  Poet  Fernando 
Pessoa  in  1928.”  Congreso  Internacional  sobre  las  Dictaduras.  Moscu,  2009.  Ponencia. 

Monica,  Maria  Filomena.  Educa^do  e sociedade  no  Portugal  de  Salazar.  Lisboa:  Presen^a,  1978. 
Impreso. 


ALBERTO  PENA-RODRfGUEZ 


440 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Paulo,  Heloisa.  Estado  Novo  e propaganda  em  Portugal  e no  Brasil.  O SPN/SNl  e o DIP.  Coimbra: 
Miner\’a,  1994.  Impreso. 

Pena- Rodriguez,  Alberto.  “ Tudo  pela  nagdo,  nada  contra  a na^do.  Salazar,  el  Secretariado  de 
Propaganda  Nacional  y la  censura.”  Hispania72-2A0  (2012):  177-204.  Impreso. 

Principe,  Cesar.  Os  se^-edos  da  censura.  Lisboa:  Editorial  Caminho,  1979.  Impreso. 

Ramos  de  O,  Jorge.  Os  anos  de  Ferro.  O dispositivo  cultural  durante  a ‘poUtica  do  esptrito,  ”1933— 
1949.  Lisboa:  Estampa,  1999.  Impreso. 

Ribeiro  de  Meneses,  Luis  Filipe.  Salazar.  Uma  biografia  politica.  Lisboa:  Dom  Quixote,  2010. 
Impreso. 

Torgal,  Luis  Reis.  Estados  novos,  Estado  Novo.  2^  ed.  Coimbra:  Imprensa  da  Universidade,  2009. 
Impreso. 


Alberto  Pena-Rodriguez  is  associate  professor  of  propaganda  history  at  the  University 
of  Vigo,  Spain,  and  chair  of  the  Propaganda,  Culture,  and  Communication  Techniques 
Research  Group.  He  holds  a PhD  in  the  European  Doctoral  Program  at  the  Complutense 
University  of  Madrid,  and  was  the  dean  of  the  Faculty  of  Social  Sciences  and 
Communication  and  the  president  of  the  International  Association  of  Communication 
History.  Pena- Rodriguez  is  the  author  of  several  books  and  articles  on  the  history  of 
propaganda  in  Iberian  relations  and  Portugal,  including  O que parece  e:  Salazar,  Franco  e a 
propaganda  contra  a Espanha  democrdtica  (2009).  He  has  also  worked  as  a journalist  in  radio, 
television,  and  print  media,  and  received  awards  in  journalism  and  research  such  as  the 
Fernandez  del  Riego  National  Journalism  Prize  (2010),  the  Barreiros  Foundation  Research 
Prize  (2009),  and  the  Galician  Government  Journalism  Prize  (1992).  He  is  the  director  of 
the  International  Iberian  Seminar  of  Communication  Research  and  is  currently  working 
on  a research  project  about  the  Portuguese  press  in  the  US.  Email:  alberto@uvigo.es 


Anibal  Frias.  Fernando  Pessoa  et  le  quint-empire  de 
I'amour:  Quete  du  desir  et  alter-sexualite.  Paris:  Petra, 
2012. 


Fernando  Beleza 


Issues  of  gender  and  sexuality  had  until  recently  occupied  an  ambivalent  posi- 
tion in  the  vast  corpus  of  Fernando  Pessoa’s  criticism,  being  at  the  same  time 
pervasively  present — since  as  early  as  the  public  reception  of  Alvaro  de  Cam- 
pos’s odes  published  in  Orpheu  (1915) — and  peripheral  to,  if  not  completely 
absent  from,  theoretical  considerations  of  the  poet’s  drama  mental.  In  recent 
years,  the  academic  interest  in  the  questions  of  gender,  sexuality,  and  corpo- 
reality in  Pessoa  studies  has  undoubtedly  increased,  contributing  to  a clarifi- 
cation of  the  importance  of  such  issues  for  a deeper  understanding  both  of 
Pessoa’s  work  and  of  Portuguese  “First  Modernism.”  Nevertheless,  as  Robert 
Brechon,  the  acclaimed  French  biographer  of  Pessoa,  states  in  the  first  lines  of 
his  preface  to  Anibal  Frias’s  Fernando  Pessoa  et  le  quint-empire  de  Pamour:  Quete 
du  dhir  et  alter-sexualite,  this  book  is  indeed  the  first  monographic  study  to 
discuss  exclusively  and  systematically  the  role  of  sexuality,  gender,  corporeal- 
ity, and  desire  in  the  work  of  the  foremost  modern  Portuguese  writer.  For  this 
reason  alone,  Frias’s  study  deserves  the  attention  of  anyone  interested  in  Pessoa’s 
work,  Portuguese  Modernism,  or  issues  of  gender  and  sexuality  in  Portuguese 
and  lusophone  studies.  Its  relevance  is  not,  however,  due  only  to  the  grow- 
ing importance  of  this  field  in  Pessoa  studies;  the  book’s  thematic  interest  is 
amplified  by  the  original  and  thought-provoking  readings  it  contains,  readings 
often  unafraid  of  problematizing  well-established  critical  positions  and  as  such 
deserving  a wide  circulation  among  the  academic  and  non-academic  public. 

At  the  core  of  Frias’s  approach  there  is  an  attempt  at  a reconstruction,  and 
consequent  reading,  of  the  unfinished  “love  cycle”  (“ciclo  amoroso”)  that  had 
been  planned  and  partially  written  by  Pessoa  from  1913  till  at  least  1930. 
Among  the  five  projected  poems  of  the  cycle,  only  the  first  two  were  com- 
pleted and  published  by  the  poet:  Antinous  and  Ephitalamium.  Of  the  other 
three,  mere  fragments  or  sketches  of  the  project  remain,  as  far  as  is  known. 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  I'd  HA  (2012):  441-443. 
© Tagus  Press  at  UMass  Dartmouth. 


442 


PORTUGUESE  LITERARY  & CULTURAL  STUDIES  23/24 


Through  a well-informed  literary  and  philosophical  approach  to  a selected 
corpus  ot  Pessoa’s  texts — illuminated  by  references  to  such  writers  and  think- 
ers as  Nietzsche,  Rimbaud,  Blanchot,  Yourcenar,  Merleau-Ponty,  Freud,  and 
Foucault — Fernando  Pessoa  et  le  quint-empire  de  suggests  a reconstitu- 

tion of  the  hve-poem  cycle,  which  is  productively  read  in  relation  to  the  poet’s 
utopian  (re)conceptualization  of  the  Fifth  Empire  in  Mensagem. 

Frias’s  book  is  divided  in  three  parts.  The  first  part  is  composed  of  a read- 
ing of  a wide  corpus  of  Pessoa’s  texts,  informed  to  a large  extent  by  post- 
structuralist thought  and  recent  gender  theory.  Refusing  psycho-biographical 
approaches — and  this  is  definitely  a critical  posture  that  strongly  marks  this 
book,  for  better  or  for  worse,  depending  on  the  reader — Frias  argues  instead 
for  an  inseparability  of  textuality  and  sexuality  in  Pessoa’s  work  that  must 
be  accounted  for,  naming  it  as  the  poet’s  t! sex! t! uality.  In  Pessoa’s  oeuvre,  he 
suggests,  the  textual  (heteronymic)  multiplications  of  a decentered  subject  in 
a constant  process  of  becoming  go  hand  in  hand  with  a questioning  of  the 
stability  of  gender  and  sexual  identities,  which  makes  Pessoa,  at  least  in  this 
realm,  postmodern  avant  la  lettre.  Even  if  some  of  the  conclusions  of  this 
first  section  are  not  totally  new,  Frias’s  well-informed  and  thought-provoking 
argumentation  offers  a crucial  theoretical  and  critical  background  for  his  sub- 
sequent (re)construction  and  reading  of  Pessoa’s  “love  cycle.” 

The  study’s  second  part  is  dedicated  to  a close  reading  of  the  poem  Anti- 
nous,  and  to  its  contextualization  in  what  Frias  considers  to  be  the  projected 
logic,  architecture,  and  dynamics  of  the  whole  “love  cycle,”  outside  of  which, 
he  argues,  each  individual  text  is  unable  to  attain  the  fullness  of  its  possible 
meanings.  Frias  rejects  both  the  tradition  of  psycho-biographic  readings  of 
Antinous  (as  his  reader  has  come  to  expect  by  this  point),  along  with  the  often 
argued  notion  of  homosexual/heterosexual  complementarity  between  Anti- 
nous  and  Epithalamium.  Instead  he  follows  Pessoa’s  lead  in  regarding  these 
texts  as  the  first  two  elements  of  a cycle  of  poems,  projected  to  reflect  on 
five  successive  cultural  moments  in  which  worldviews,  sexualities,  and  differ- 
ent desires  emerge  as  deeply  intermingled;  Greece,  Antinous;  Rome,  Epitha- 
lamium; Christianity,  Prayer  to  a Womans  Body,  modern  Empire,  Pan-Eros', 
Fifth  Empire,  Anteros.  Furthermore,  Frias’s  reading  exposes  the  relevance  to 
Pessoa’s  project  of  topics  such  as  memory,  art,  and  temporality,  which  had 
been  previously  neglected  by  the  critics. 

The  central  element  in  the  book’s  third  part  is  a hypothetical  (re)construc- 
tion  of  the  unfinished  “cycle,”  based  on  a corpus  that  ranges  from  fragments 


ECONOMIES  OF  RELATION 


443 


of  the  three  unfinished  poems  to  texts  by  Alvaro  de  Campos,  Alberto  Caeiro, 
Bernardo  Soares,  Antonio  Mora,  and  Jean  Seul  de  Meluret,  as  well  as  by 
Nietzsche  and  other  non-Pessoan  authors.  Frias’s  reading  leads  him  to  argue 
for  a similarly  organic  relationship  between  the  whole  “love  cycle”  and  the 
poet’s  Mensagem,  and  to  suggest  the  pertinence  of  a comparative  juxtaposition 
between  the  final  stage  of  the  cycle,  Anteros  (said  to  be  characterized  by  a yet 
to  be  invented  neo-pagan  form  of  love  reaching  beyond  sexuality  and  gender), 
and  Pessoa’s  idea  of  the  cultural  and  spiritual  Fifth  Empire.  From  this  read- 
ing emerges  what  Frias  boldly  names  as  Pessoa’s  “Fifth  Empire  of  love” — an 
esoteric  (or,  as  some  might  argue,  queerly  ^soi^nc) , literary  reinvention  of  love 
and  desire  pointing  towards  a realm  beyond  dualisms  and  modern  categoriza- 
tions of  gender  and  sexuality. 

Anibal  Frias’s  book  opens  up  many  new  possibilities  for  reconsidering  Pes- 
soa’s work,  not  only  in  relation  to  issues  of  corporeality,  gender,  and  sexuality, 
but  also  for  readings  oriented  by  other  critical  perspectives.  This  wide  scope 
of  prospective  critical  consequences  both  shows  the  relevance  of  this  topic  for 
a broader  understanding  of  Fernando  Pessoa’s  work  and  makes  this  book  a 
crucial  contribution  not  only  to  the  fields  of  gender  and  queer  studies  within 
Pessoa  scholarship  but  also  to  Portuguese  literary  and  cultural  studies  in  gen- 
eral. Furthermore,  Frias’s  study  is  very  well  written,  clearly  organized,  and, 
despite  the  complexity  of  the  topics  it  discusses,  reasonably  accessible  also  to 
the  non-academic  public. 


Fernando  Beleza  holds  a BA  in  Romance  literatures  from  the  University  of  Coimbra 
and  an  MA  in  comparative  literature  from  the  University  of  Porto.  He  has  published 
articles  in  peer-reviewed  publications  on  nineteenth-century  fiction  and  presented  papers 
at  international  conferences  on  Modernism,  gender,  and  queer  theory,  as  well  as  on 
Lusophone  postcolonial  topics.  He  is  currently  a PhD  candidate  in  Luso-Afro-Brazilian 
studies  and  theory  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth.  Email:  fernando. 
beleza@gmail.com 


REVIEW 


. t,  ',f 

i 


l.i 


. ;■'>*• 

' ■■■•  *L . S‘-‘  . - '•"T.jlrvif!'’ 

■ Vi’  .i  ^ V ‘ ^ 


.V 


If*  • 

,•*’ "- 

-Vv';- 


. J.<ji-t, .-  > ‘/rt^  injlfj 

- . ■>*.''• ' ^ v#i^w  * 


i t 


'^Ml.  ,f'  'J.  i*«| 


j 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies 

www.plcs.umassd.edu 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  1 
Fronteirasl Borders. 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  2 
Lidia  Jorge  in  other  words  / por  outras  palavras. 

Guest  Editor:  Claudia  Pazos  Alonso,  Oxford  University 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  3 
Pessods  Alberto  Caeiro. 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  41 5 

Brazil  2001.  A Revisionary  LListory  of  Brazilian  Literature  and  Culture. 
Guest  Editor:  Joao  Cezar  de  Castro  Rocha,  Universidade  do  Estado 
do  Rio  de  Janeiro 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  6 
On  Saramago. 

Guest  Editor:  Anna  Klobucka,  University  of  Georgia 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  7 
A Repertoire  of  Contemporary  Portuguese  Poetry. 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  8 
Cape  Verde:  Language,  Literature  & Music. 

Guest  Editor:  Ana  Mafalda  Leite,  Universidade  de  Lisboa 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  9 
Post-Imperial  Camoes. 

Guest  Editor:  Joao  Ricardo  Figueiredo,  Universidade  de  Lisboa 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  1 0 
Reevaluating  Mozambique. 

Guest  Editor:  Phillip  Rothwell,  Rutgers  University,  New  Brunswick 


Portuguese  Litemiy  & Cultural  Studies  1 1 
Vitorino  Nemesio  and  the  Azores. 

Guest  Editor:  Francisco  Cota  Fagundes,  University  of  Massachusetts 
Amherst 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  1 2 
The  Other  Nineteenth  Century. 

Guest  Editor:  Kathryn  Bishop-Sanchez,  University  of  Wisconsin,  Madison 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  13/14 

The  Author  as  Plagiarist — The  Case  of  Machado  de  Assis. 

Guest  Editor:  Joao  Cezar  de  Castro  Rocha,  Universidade  do  Estado 
do  Rio  de  Janeiro 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  15/16 
Remem  beri  ng  A ngola. 

Guest  Editor:  Phillip  Rothwell,  Rutgers  University,  New  Brunswick 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  \7 1 
Parts  of  Asia. 

Guest  Editor:  Cristiana  Bastos,  University  of  Lisbon 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  19/20 
Facts  and  Fictions  of  Antonio  Lobo  Antunes. 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  21/22 
Garretts  Travels  Revisited. 

Editors:  Victor  K.  Mendes  and  Valeria  M.  Souza, 

University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth  and  Middlebury  College 

Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  23/24 

Economies  of  Relation:  Money  and  Personalism  in  the  Lusophone  World. 

Guest  Editor:  Roger  Sansi,  Goldsmiths,  University  of  London 


Adamastor  Book  Series 

www.plcs.umassd.edu 

Eduardo  Louren^o.  Chaos  and  Splendor  and  Other  Essays. 

Edited  by  Carlos  Veloso,  New  York  University 
ISBN  0-9722561-1-3 

Producing  Presences:  Branching  out  from  Gumbrecht’s  Work. 

Edited  by  Victor  K.  Mendes  and  Joao  Cezar  de  Castro  Rocha 
Afterword  by  Hans  Ulrich  Gumbrecht,  Stanford  University 
ISBN  1-933227-22-2 

Luis  de  Camoes.  Sonnets  and  Other  Poems. 

Translated  by  Richard  Zenith 
ISBN  1-933227-26-5 

The  Traveling  Eye:  Retrospection,  Vision,  and  Prophecy  in  the 
Portuguese  Renaissance. 

Fernando  Gil,  EHESS,  Paris,  and  Helder  Macedo,  King’s  College,  London 
ISBN  978-1-933227-29-0 

Antonio  Vieira.  The  Sermon  of  Saint  Anthony  to  the  Pish  and  Other  Texts. 
Translated  by  Gregory  Rabassa 
ISBN  978-1-933227-30-6 

E^a  de  Queiros.  The  Correspondence  of  Pradique  Mendes. 

Translated  by  Gregory  Rabassa 
ISBN  978-1-933227-32-0 

E^a  de  Queiros.  The  Relic:  A Novel. 

Translated  by  Aubrey  F.  G.  Bell 
Preface  by  Harold  Bloom 

ISBN  978-1-933227-35-1  and  Ebook  ISBN  978-1-933227-38-2 


Bernardim  Ribeiro.  Maiden  and  Modest:  A Renaissance  Pastoral  Romance. 
Translated  by  Gregory  Rabassa 
Preface  by  Earl  E.  Fitz 
ISBN  978-1-933227-37-5 


Portuguese  Language  Textbook  Series 

Francisco  Cota  Fagundes.  Um  passo  mais  no  portugues  moderno: 
Gramdtica  avangada,  leituras,  composigdo  e conversagdo. 


Portuguese  in  the  Americas  Series 

Portuguese-Americans  and  Contemporary  Civic  Culture  in  Massachusetts. 
Edited  by  Clyde  Barrow,  Center  for  Policy  Analysis, 

University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth 
ISBN  0-9722561-0-5 

Through  a Portagee  Cate. 

Charles  Reis  Felix 
ISBN  0-9722561-4-8 

In  Pursuit  of  Their  Dreams:  A History  of  Azorean  Immigration 
to  the  United  States. 

Jerty  R.  Williams 
ISBN  0-9722561-6-4 

Sixty  Acres  and  a Barn:  A Novel. 

Alfred  Lewis 
ISBN  0-9722561-5-6 

Da  Cama,  Cary  Crant,  and  the  Election  of 1934. 

Charles  Reis  Felix 
ISBN  0-9722561-8-0 


Distant  Music. 

Julian  Silva 
ISBN  0-9722561-9-9 

The  Representation  of  the  Portuguese  in  American  Literature. 

Reinaldo  Silva 
ISBN  1-933227-18-4 

The  Holyoke. 

Frank  X.  Caspar 
ISBN  1-933227-20-6 

Two  Portuguese-American  Plays. 

Paulo  Pereira  and  Patricia  A.  Thomas 
ISBN  1-933227-21-4 

Tony:  A New  England  Boyhood 
Charles  Reis  Felix 
ISBN  1-933227-24-9 

Community,  Culture  and  The  Makings  of  Identity:  Portuguese-Americans  along 
the  Eastern  Seaboard 

Edited  by  Kimberly  daCosta  Holton,  Rutgers  University,  Newark, 
and  Andrea  Klimt,  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth 
ISBN  1-933227-27-3 

The  Undiscovered  Island. 

Darrell  Kastin 
ISBN  1-933227-23-0 

So  Ends  This  Day:  The  Portuguese  in  American  Whaling,  1765—1927. 

Donald  Warrin 
ISBN  1-933227-28-1 


Azorean  Identity  in  Brazil  and  the  United  States:  Arguments  about  History, 
Culture,  and  Transnational  Connections. 

Joao  Leal 

ISBN  1-933227-31-1 

Move  Over  Scopes  and  Other  Short  Fiction. 

Julian  Silva 

ISBN  978-1-933227-33-7 

The  Marriage  of  the  Portuguese  (Expanded  Edition). 

Sam  Pereira 

Foreword  by  Frank  X.  Caspar 
ISBN  978-1-933227-34-4 

Home  Is  an  Island:  A Novel. 

Allred  Lewis 

ISBN  978-1-933227-36-8 

Land  of  Milk  and  Money 
Anthony  Barcellos 
ISBN  978-1-933227-40-5 

The  Conjurer  and  Other  Azorean  Tales 

Darrell  Kastin 

ISBN  978-I-933227-4I-2 


SPCOLL  HG  832  .S26  2013  v. 
Sansi-Roca,  Roger. 
Economies  of  relation 


DATE  DUE 


HIGHSMITH 


Portuguese  Literary  & Cultural  Studies  is  a multilingual 
interdisciplinary  peer-reviewed  journal  published  semi- 
annually by  the  Center  for  Portuguese  Studies  and 
Culture  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Dartmouth. 
The  journal  addresses  the  literatures  and  cultures  of  the 
diverse  communities  of  the  Portuguese-speaking  world 
in  terms  of  critical  and  theoretical  approaches. 


Cover  image:  Stacks  of  Golden  Coins  © Gregor  Schuster/lconica/Getty  Images 


