English  Litepaiupe 

FopBoys  «^^p1s 


m 


m 


i 


m 


I! 


t/ 


M 


MciTs£^cd^ 


cH^l 


NY  PUBLIC  LIBRARY     THE  BRANCH  LIBRARIES 


3  3333  05967  0956 


•  u 


'f't- 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/englishliteraturOOmars 


ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

FOR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS 


NOTE 

The  lists  of  books  given  at  the  end  of  some  chapters 
do  not  claim  to  be  either  final  or  complete,  but  are  the 
best  for  the  purpose,  obtainable  at  a  moderate  price, 
which  have  come  under  the  writer's  notice,  and  it  is 
hoped  that  they  may  be  of  some  little  assistance  to  those 
who  choose  books  for  young  readers  to  read  in  connection 
with  the  Literature.  Where  several  editions  of  one  book 
are  given,  the  most  simple  version  is  always  placed  first. 
Occasionally  where  no  good  simplified  version  is  obtain- 
able an  ordinary  inexpensive  edition  is  mentioned. 


'IT   WAS   IN    IHt    MUNAsltklEs    IHAl    Buokb    VV  EkJi    WRllTEN    AND    COPIED.' 


ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

FOR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS 

BY   H.    E.    MARSHALL 

AUTHOR    OP  "an   island    STORY,"    "SCOTLAND'S 
STORY,"    "an    EMPraE   STORy" 

Illustrated  with  20  Drawings  in  Color 
BY   JOHN  R.  SKELTON 


NEW  YORK 
FREDERICK  A.  STOKES  COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS 


TO 

ELIZABETH  DOROTHEA  PRIAULX  TAUDEVIN 

HELEN  GERTRUDE  BAKER 

AND 

JOHN  RAYMOND  KEEN 


q  (MA 


TO  BOYS  AND  GIRLS— AN  APOLOGY 


Dear  Boys  and  Girls, — This  is  not  the  book  you  asked 
for — it  is  not  the  book  that  any  of  you  have  asked  for,  and 
I  hope  that  you  will  not  be  very  much  disappointed.  But 
in  case  you  should  be  I  will  tell  you  how  this  book  came  to 
be  written,  and  that  may  make  you  feel  less  disappointed. 

Long,  lon^  ago  I  said,  "If  ever  I  have  two  brass  farthings 
to  rub  one  against  the  other  I  know  what  I  shall  do — I 
shall  write  an  English  Literature  for  Boys  and  Girls."  But 
the  days  and  months  and  years  went  on,  and  I  never  saw 
even  one  brass  farthing.  I  wonder  if  ever  any  one  did. 
Did  you? 

Still  I  kept  the  hope  and  kept  the  wish  ready.  And  at 
last  one  day  a  Magician  came.  I  can't  stop  to  tell  you 
what  he  was  like,  but  he  wasn't  a  bit  like  any  Magician  I 
ever  read  about.  He  put  two  golden  pennies  into  my  hand 
and  said  in  a  very  solemn  voice,  "Rub  them  one  against 
the  other  and  the  first  wish  you  wish  shall  be  granted  to 
you.  Be  careful.  Remember,  only  one  wish.  So  choose 
with  thought."  Then  he  vanished.  But  of  course  I  could 
not  choose  with  thought,  for  the  wish  I  had  kept  ready  all 
the  time  just  slipped  off  my  tongue,  and  as  I  rubbed  my 
golden  pennies  together  I  said  quickly,  "I  wish  to  write 
an  English  Literature  for  Boys  and  Girls." 

So  I  had  my  wish  and  have  done  my  part.  It  is  for 
you  to  do  the  rest.  You  know  in  fairy  tales  when  peo- 
ple   get    their    wishes    they    often    find    that    instead    of 


vi  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

being  made  happy  they  are  made  unhappy  by  the  fulfill- 
ment. But  if  you  like  my  book,  then  I  can  truly  say  that 
my  wish  has  brought  only  happiness  in  its  fulfillment.  And 
if  you  like  my  book,  which  is  now  yours,  and  if  you  say 
so,  and  if  your  kind  Fathers  and  Mothers  and  Uncles  and 
Aunts  buy  it  for  you,  who  knows  but  one  day  the  Magician 
will  come  again  with  two  more  golden  pennies,  and  let  me 
wish  another  wish.     Then  I  shall  wish  to  write  the  history 

of  the  country  you  asked  for.     JNIeantime  I  am,  as 

always,  your  slave  and  friend, 

H.  E.  MARSHALL. 
Oxford,  1909. 


TO  "THE  OLYMPIANS"— AN  EXPLANATION 

This  preface,  let  me  begin  by  stating,  is  not  meant  for  my 
proper  audience  of  Boys  and  Girls,  but  for  the  "Olympians," 
those  semi-fairy  godmothers  and  godfathers  whose  purses 
ought  to  be  bottomless  as  their  kindness  is  limitless.  Hav- 
ing thus  freed  my  pen  let  me  proceed  with  my  preface,  in 
the  happy  consciousness  that  I  may  with  impunity  use  five- 
syllabled  words  should  I  so  desire. 

My  preface  is  an  explanation,  and  an  apology.  For 
every  one  who  writes  a  literature  for  young  people  begins 
with  an  apology  for  writing  it,  and  with  an  explana- 
tion of  why  they  wrote  it.  We  explain  that  in  spite  of 
the  many  excellent  literatures  published  none  exactly  suits 
our  purpose  and,  while  apologizing  for  adding  to  the  num- 
ber, we  proceed  to  write  one  to  please  ourselves.  My  po- 
sition is  the  same  as  that  of  all  those  who  have  gone  before 
me,  and  I  have  no  more  original  explanation  to  offer 
for  adding  yet  another  Literature  to  the  many  already  pub- 
lished. 

None  of  the  Literatures  which  it  has  been  my  fortune  to 
come  across  suits  my  purpose,  for  they  are  all  written  for 
use  in  schools,  while  my  desire  has  been  to  produce  a  book 
which  a  boy  or  girl  will  read,  not  as  a  task,  but  as  a  pleas- 
ure. It  is  my  belief  that  this  is  the  first  attempt  of  the 
kind  that  has  been  made,  and  whether  I  have  succeeded  or 
failed  my  young  readers  must  decide. 

vii 


viii  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  object  with  which  I  write  being  to  amuse  and  in- 
terest rather  than  to  teach,  a  great  deal  has  been  left  out 
which  must  of  necessity  have  been  included  in  a  book  meant 
for  school  use.  No  attempt  has  been  made  to  in- 
clude even  all  the  great  names.  Such  an  attempt  could 
result,  in  the  space  at  my  disposal,  in  little  more  than  a 
catalogue  of  names  and  dates.  A  selection  therefore  has 
been  made  of  the  most  representative  writers  in  the  various 
periods  treated,  and  any  one  who  loves  our  literature  will 
at  once  realize  how  difficult  such  selection  was.  I  have 
chosen  for  the  most  part  those  men  and  works  which  seemed 
best  to  illustrate  the  widening  and  deepening  of  our  litera- 
ture, but  occasionally  I  have  chosen  to  tell  of  some  work 
chiefly  because  of  its  appeal  to  young  people,  while 
others  for  obvious  reasons  have  been  passed  over  in  silence. 
In  treating  of  a  great  man  it  is  not  always  his  greatest  work 
that  I  have  emphasized,  but  rather  that  which  most  easily 
comes  within  the  grasp  of  j^oung  minds.  I  have  of  set 
purpose  treated  the  early  portions  of  our  literature  at  much 
greater  length  than  is  usual,  it  being  my  belief  that  what 
was  attractive  to  a  youthful  nation  will  be  most  attractive 
to  the  young  of  that  nation.  Lastly,  I  have,  especially  in 
the  earlier  portions,  tried  to  keep  literature  in  touch  with 
history,  and  to  show  how  the  political  development  of  our 
country  influenced,  and  in  its  turn  was  influenced  by,  the 
literary  development. 

In  writing  such  a  book  my  indebtedness  to  those  who 
have  gone  before  me  is  extreme,  but  to  make  acknowledg- 
ments to  all  who  have  helped  me  to  produce  it  would  be 
wellnigh  impossible,  for  it  would  be  to  catalogue  the  read- 
ing of  a  lifetime.    The  list  would  make  a  brave  show;  too 


PREFACE  ix 

brave  a  show  for  such  a  small  result.  The  great  among 
the  dead  I  trust  know  my  gratitude.  Should  the  great 
among  the  living  chance  to  cast  an  eye  upon  my  poor  book, 
I  pray  them  to  take  it  as  an  evidence  equally  of  my  in- 
debtedness and  my  gratitude.  My  direct  borrowings  I  have 
never  failed,  I  hope,  to  acknowledge  throughout  the  text 
by  quotation  marks  and  notes.  While  expressing  my  grati- 
tude to  others  I  must  add  one  word  of  thanks  to  Mr.  J.  R. 
Skelton,  whose  excellent  portrait-pictures  have  helped  not 
a  little  to  illuminate  the  text  and  lighten  the  task  of  expla- 
nation. 

In  concluding,  it  seems  to  me  I  can  do  little  better  than 
add  to  my  already  frequent  borrowings  by  quoting  a  few 
lines  from  John  Colet,  that  stern-seeming  but  tender-hearted 
man  who,  four  hundred  years  ago,  wrought  so  much  for 
young  folks,  and  tried  to  smooth  for  them  the  thorny  path 
of  learning. 

"I  have  made  this  lytic  boke,  not  thynkynge  that  I 
coude  say  ony  thynge  beter  than  hath  be  sayd  before,  but 
I  toke  this  besynes,  hauynge  grete  pleasure  to  shewe  the 
testymony  of  my  good  mynde  onto  the  schole.  In  whiche 
lytel  warke  yf  ony  newe  thynges  be  of  me,  it  is  alonely  that 
I  have  put  these  partes  in  a  more  clere  ordre,  and  have 
made  them  a  lytel  more  easy  to  yonge  wyttes  than  (me 
thynketh)  they  were  before.  Judgying  that  no  thynghe 
may  be  to  softe  nor  to  famlyer  for  lytel  chyldren,  specyally 
lernynge  a  tongue  onto  them  al  straunge.  In  whiche  lytel 
boke  I  have  lefte  many  thynges  out  of  purpose,  consyderyng 
the  tendernes  and  small  capacyte  of  lytel  myndes.  ...  I 
praye  God  all  may  be  to  his  honour,  and  to  the  erudicyon 
and  profyt  of  chyldren  my  countre  men,  Londoners  espe- 


X  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

cyally,  whome  dygestynge  this  lytel  warke  I  had  al- 
waye  before  myn  eyen,  consyderynge  more  what  was  for 
them  than  to  shewe  ony  grete  comiyge,  wyllyng  to  speke 
the  thynges  often  before  spoken  in  suche  maner  as  gladli 
yonge  begynners  and  tender  wyttes  myght  take  and  con- 
ceyve.  Wherefore  I  praye  you,  al  lytel  babys,  al  lytel 
chyldren,  lerne  gladly  this  lytel  treatyse,  and  commende  it 
dylygently  onto  your  memoryes.  Trusting  of  this  begj^n- 
nynge  that  ye  shal  procede  and  growe  to  parfyt  literature, 
and  come  at  the  last  to  be  gret  clarkes.  And  lyfte  up  your 
lytel  whyte  handes  for  me,  whiche  prayeth  for  you  to  God. 
To  Whom  be  al  honour  and  imperyal  maieste  and  glory. 
Amen." 

H.  E.  MARSHALL. 
Oxford,  1909. 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  PAQH 

I.  IN  THE  LISTENING  TIME 1 

II.  THE  STORY  OF  THE  CATTLE  RAID  OF  COOLEY      ...         5 

III.  ONE  OF  THE  SORROWS  OF  STORY-TELLING    .         .         .         .11 

IV.  THE  STORY  OF  A  LITERARY  LIE 16 

V.  THE  STORY  OF  FINGAL 21 

VI.  ABOUT  SOME  OLD  WELSH  STORIES  AND  STORY-TELLERS  .  27 

VII.  HOW  THE  STORY  OF  ARTHUR  WAS  WRITTEN  IN  ENGLISH  .  34 

VIII.  THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  READING  TIME       ....  42 

rX.     "THE  PASSING  OF  ARTHUR" 49 

X.  THE  ADVENTURES  OF  AN  OLD  ENGLISH  BOOK      .         .         „  54 

XL    THE  STORY  OF  BEOWULF 60 

Xn.    THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  SONG 66 

XIII.  HOW  CAEDMON  SANG,  AND  HOW  HE  FELL  ONCE  MORE  ON 

SILENCE 73 

XIV.  THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  HISTORY 79 

XV.    HOW  ALFRED  THE  GREAT  FOUGHT  WITH  HIS  PEN       .         .       87 

XVI.     WHEN  ENGLISH  SLEPT 91 

XVII.    THE  STORY  OF  HAVELOK  THE  DANE 96 

XVni.    ABOUT  SOME  SONG  STORIES 102 

XIX.    "PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN" 110 

XX.     "PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN"— corehViuei 115 

XXI.  HOW  THE  BIBLE  CAME  TO  THE  PEOPLE         .         .         .         .122 

XXII.     CHAUCER— BREAD  AND  MILK  FOR  CHILDREN       .         .         .123 

xl 


xii  CONTENTS 

CH  APTEB  PAQD 

XXIII.    CHAUCER— "THE  CANTERBURY  TALES"      .        .        .         .132 

XXIV.     CHAUCER— AT  THE  TABARD  INN 138 

XXV.     THE  FIRST  ENGLISH  GUIDE-BOOK 147 

XXVI.     BARBOUR— "THE    BRUCE,"    THE     BEGINNINGS      OF     A 

STRUGGLE 153 

XXVII.     BARBOUR— "THE  BRUCE,"  THE  END  OP  THE  STRUGGLE     159 

XXVIII.    A  POET  KING 164 

XXIX.     THE   DEATH  OP  THE  POET  KING 170 

XXX.     DUNBAR— THE    WEDDING    OP   THE   THISTLE    AND    THE 

ROSE 176 

XXXI.  AT  THE  SIGxN  OF  THE  RED  PALE 182 

XXXII.  ABOUT  THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  THEATER       .         .         .191 

XXXIII.  HOW  THE  SHEPHERDS  WATCHED  THEIR  FLOCKS    .         .     198 

XXXIV.  THE  STORY  OF  EVERYMAN 204 

XXXV.  HOW  A  POET  COMFORTED  A  GIRL 207 

XXXVI.     THE  RENAISSANCE 215 

XXXVII.    THE  LAND  OF  NOWHERE 220 

XXXVIII.    THE  DEATH  OF  SIR  THOMAS  MORE 231 

XXXIX.  HOW  THE  SONNET  CAME  TO  ENGLAND      .         .         .         .237 

XL.     THE  BEGINNING  OF  BLANK  VERSE 243 

XLI.  SPENSER— "THE  SHEPHERD'S  CALENDAR"          ...  247 

XLII.    SPENSER— "THE  FAERY  QUEEN" 254 

XLIII.    SPENSER— HIS  LAST  DAYS 265 

XLIV.     ABOUT  THE  FIRST  THEATERS 270 

XLV.     SHAKESPEARE— THE  BOY 279 

XLVI.     SHAKESPEARE— THE  MAN 286 

XLVII.  SHAKESPEARE— "THE  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE"         ,         .  293 

XLVIII.  JONSON— "EVERY  MAN  IN  HIS  HUMOUR '  ....  305 

XLIX.    JONSON— "THE  SAD  SHEPHERD  ' 314 

L.    RALEIGH— "THE  REVENGE" 819 


CONTENTS  xiii 

CHAPTEB  PAGE 

LI.  RALEIGH— "THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  WORLD'       .         .         .331 

LII.     BACON— NEW  WAYS  OF  WISDOM 339 

LIII.     BACON— THE  HAPPY  ISLAND 349 

LIV.     ABOUT  SOME  LYRIC  POETS 356 

LV.     HERBERT— THE  PARSON  POET 362 

LVI.  HERRICK  AND  MARVELI^OF  BLOSSOMS  AND  BOWERS  .     370 

LVII.     MILTON— SIGHT  AND  GROWTH 383 

LVIII.     MILTON— DARKNESS  AND  DEATH 396 

LIX.  BUNYAN— "THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS "        .         .         .         .407 

LX.     DRYDEN— THE  NEW  POETRY 420 

LXL     DEFOE— THE  FIRST  NEWSPAPERS 434 

LXII.     DEFOE— "ROBINSON  CRUSOE" 441 

LXIII.    SWIFT— "THE  JOURNAL  TO  STELLA" 448 

LXIV.    SWIFT— "GULLIVER'S  TRAVELS' 457 

LXV.     ADDISON— "THE  SPECTATOR" 465 

LXVI.    STEELE— THE  SOLDIER  AUTHOR 480 

LXVII.     POPE— "THE  RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK" 490 

LXVIII.     JOHNSON— DAYS  OF  STRUGGLE 503 

LXIX.  JOHNSON— THE  END  OF  THE  JOURNEY       .         .         .         .511 

LXX.     GOLDSMITH— THE  VAGABOND 522 

LXXI.  GOLDSMITH— "THE  VICAR  OF  WAKEFIELD"       .         .         .529 

LXXII.    BURNS— THE  PLOUGHMAN  POET 537 

LXXIII.     COWPER— "THE  TASK" 551 

LXXIV.  WORDSWORTH— THE  POET  OF  NATURE       .         .         .         .557 

LXXV.  WORDSWORTH  AND  COLERIDGE— THE  LAKE  POETS         .     564 

LXXVI.  COLERIDGE  AND  SOUTHEY— SUNSHINE  AND  SHADOW     .     575 

LXXVII.  SCOTT— THE  AWAKENING  OF  ROMANCE     .         .                  .581 

LXXVIII.  SCOTT— "THE  WIZARD  OF  THE  NORTH"      .         .         .         .589 

LXXIX.  BYRON— "CHILDE  HAROLD'S  PILGRIMAGE "        .         .         .596 


xiv  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAQB 

LXXX.    SHELLEY— THE  POET  OF  LOVE 607 

LXXXI.    KEATS— THE  POET  OF  BEAUTY 620 

LXXXII.     CARLYLE— THE  SAGE  OF  CHELSEA 633 

LXXXHL    THACKERAY— THE  CYNIC? 645 

LXXXIV.    DICKENS— SMILES  AND  TEARS 656 

LXXXV.    TENNYSON— THE  POET  OF  FRIENDSHIP     .         .         .         .668 

CHRONOLOGICAL  LIST  OP  WRITERS  NOTICED   IN  THIS  VOLUME  680 

INDEX 681 


LIST    OF    ILLUSTRATIONS 

'It  was  in  the  Monasteries  that  books  were  written  and  copied" 

Frontispiece 


AT   PAGE 


"  Minstrels  sang  of  the  famous  deeds  of  heroes  "  ...       28 

"'Csedmon,  sing  some  song  to  me'"  .....       70 

"Langland  dreamed  a  wondrous  dream"  .  .  .  .  .116 

"Expelled  from  the  University,  Wyclif  went  into  the  country  and 

there  T\Tote  and  taught"  .  .  .  .  .  .  .126 

"  It  is  a  Company  of  Pilgrims  such  as  this  that  Chaucer  paints  for 

us,  he  himself  being  of  the  Company  "  .  ,  .  .136 

"  Great  Nobles  visited  Caxton's  workshop "         ....      186 

"The  demons  were  generally  funny"  .....      196 

"Spenser  read  the  first  part  of  his  book,  'The  Faery  Queen'  to 

Raleigh" 252 

"It  was  only  Master  Shakespeare"  .....     290 

"Ben  and  his  host  had  many  a  long  talk  together,  discussing  men 

and  books"      .........     312 

"Bacon  was  generally  accompanied  by  a  gentleman  of  his  house- 
hold, who  was  ready  to  set  down  his  thoughts"  .  .      346 

"My  maid  (my  Prue),  by  good  luck  sent. 
To  save 
That  little.  Fates  me  gave  or  lent, "   .  .  .     372 

XV 


xvi  LIST    OF    ILLUSTRATIONS 

AT  PAG  a 

"Milton  sitting  in  his  garden  at  the  door  of  his  house"        .  .     406 

"  During  his  imprisonment  Bunyan  wrote  the  *  Pilgrim's  Progress ' "     418 

"  Addison  and  Steele  between  them  imagined  a  club  "         .      .       .      474 

"  *  There  is  no  arguing  with  Johnson, '  said  Goldsmith/f  or  when  his 

pistol  misses  fire  he  knocks  you  down  with  the  butt  end  of  it ' "     520 

"Wee,  modest,  crimson-tipped  flow'r, 
Thou's  met  me  in  an  evil  hour; 
For  I  maun  crush  amang  the  stoure 

Thy  slender  stem. 
To  spare  thee  now  is  past  my  pow'r. 

Thou  bonnie  gem, "        .  .  .     546 

"Scott  would  sit  and  talk  with  a  poor  man  in  his  cottage"  .     588 

"Carlyle  and  Tennyson  talked  and  smoked  together"  .  .      642 


ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

FOR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS 

CHAPTER  I 

IN  THE  LISTENING  TIME 

Has  there  ever  been  a  time  when  no  stories  were  told?  Has 
there  ever  been  a  people  who  did  not  care  to  listen?  I  think 
not. 

When  we  were  little,  before  we  could  read  for  ourselves, 
did  we  not  gather  eagerly  round  father  or  mother,  friend 
or  nurse,  at  the  promise  of  a  story?  When  we  grew  older, 
what  happy  hours  did  we  not  spend  with  our  books.  How 
the  printed  words  made  us  forget  the  world  in  which  we 
live,  and  carried  us  away  to  a  wonderland, 

"Where  waters  gushed  and  fruit  trees  grew 
And  flowers  put  forth  a  fairer  hue, 
And  everything  was  strange  and  new; 
The  sparrows  were  brighter  than  peacocks  here. 
And  their  dogs  outran  our  fallow  deer. 
And  honey  bees  had  lost  their  stings. 
And  horses  were  born  with  eagles'  wings."  ^ 

And  as  it  is  with  us,  so  it  is  with  a  nation,  with  a  people. 
In  the  dim,  far-off  times  when  our  forefathers  were  wild, 
naked  savages,  they  had  no  books.  Like  ourselves,  when 
we  were  tiny,  they  could  neither  read  nor  write.  But  do 
you  think  that  they  had  no  stories?  Oh,  yes!  We  may 
be  sure  that  when  the  day's  work  was  done,  when  the  fight 

*  Robert  Browning. 

i 


2  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

or  the  chase  was  over,  they  gathered  round  the  wood  fire 
and  listened  to  the  tales  of  the  story-teller. 

These  stories  were  all  of  war.  They  told  of  terrible 
combats  with  men  or  with  fierce  strange  beasts,  they  told 
of  passion,  of  revenge.  In  them  there  was  no  beauty,  no 
tenderness,  no  love.  For  the  life  of  man  in  those  far-off 
days  was  wild  and  rough;  it  was  one  long  struggle  against 
foes,  a  struggle  which  left  little  room  for  what  was  beautiful 
or  tender. 

But  as  time  went  on,  as  life  became  more  easy,  in  one 
way  or  another  the  savage  learned  to  become  less  savage. 
Then  as  he  changed,  the  tales  he  listened  to  changed  too. 
They  were  no  longer  all  of  war,  of  revenge;  they  told  of 
love  also.  And  later,  when  the  story  of  Christ  had  come  to 
soften  men's  hearts  and  brighten  men's  lives,  the  stories 
told  of  faith  and  purity  and  gentleness. 

At  last  a  time  came  when  minstrels  wandered  from  town 
to  town,  from  castle  to  castle,  singing  their  lays.  And 
the  minstrel  who  had  a  good  tale  to  tell  was  ever  sure  of  a 
welcome,  and  for  his  pains  he  was  rewarded  with  money, 
jewels,  and  even  land.  That  was  the  true  listening  time 
of  the  world. 

It  was  no  easy  thing  to  be  a  minstrel,  and  a  man  often 
spent  ten  or  twelve  years  in  learning  to  be  one.  There 
were  certain  tales  which  all  minstrels  had  to  know,  and 
the  best  among  them  could  tell  three  hundred  and  fifty. 
Of  these  stories  the  minstrels  used  to  learn  only  the  outline, 
and  each  told  the  story  in  his  own  way,  filling  it  in  accord- 
ing to  his  own  fancy.  So  as  time  went  on  these  well-known 
tales  came  to  be  told  in  many  different  ways,  changing 
as  the  times  changed. 

At  length,  after  many  years  had  passed,  men  began  to 
write  down  these  tales,  so  that  they  might  not  be  forgotten. 
These  first  books  we  call  IManuscripts,  from  the  Latin  words 
manus,  a  hand,  and  scrihere,  to  write,  for  they  were  all  writ- 


IN  THE  LISTENING  TIME  3 

ten  by  hand.  Even  after  they  were  written  down  there  were 
many  changes  made  in  the  tales,  for  those  who  wrote  or 
copied  them  would  sometimes  miss  lines  or  alter  others.  Yet 
they  were  less  changed  than  they  had  been  when  told  only 
by  word  of  mouth. 

These  stories  then  form  the  be -^innings  of  what  is  called 
our  Literature.  Literature  really  means  letters,  for  it  comes 
from  a  Latin  word  littera,  meaning  a  letter  of  the  alphabet. 
Words  are  made  by  letters  of  the  alphabet  being  set  to- 
gether, and  our  literature  again  by  words  being  set  together ; 
hence  the  name. 

As  on  and  on  time  went,  every  year  more  stories  were 
told  and  sung  and  written  down.  The  first  stories  which 
our  forefathers  told  in  the  days  long,  long  ago,  and  which 
were  never  written  down,  are  lost  forever.  Even  many  of 
those  stories  which  were  written  are  lost  too,  but  a  few  still 
remain,  and  from  them  we  can  learn  much  of  the  life  and 
the  history  of  the  people  who  lived  in  our  land  ten  and  twelve 
hundred  years  ago,  or  more. 

For  a  long  time  books  were  all  written  by  hand.  They 
were  very  scarce  and  dear,  and  only  the  wealthy  could  af- 
ford to  have  them,  and  few  could  read  them.  Even  great 
knights  and  nobles  could  not  read,  for  they  spent  all  their 
time  in  fighting  and  hunting,  and  had  little  time  in  which 
to  learn.  So  it  came  about  that  the  monks  who  lived  a 
quiet  and  peaceful  life  became  the  learned  men.  In  the 
monasteries  it  was  that  books  were  written  and  copied. 
There  too  they  were  kept,  and  the  monasteries  became  not 
only  the  schools,  but  the  libraries  of  the  country. 

As  a  nation  grows  and  changes,  its  literature  grows  and 
changes  with  it.  At  first  it  asks  only  for  stories,  then  it 
asks  for  history  for  its  own  sake,  and  for  poetry  for  its  own 
sake;  history,  I  mean,  for  the  knowledge  it  gives  us  of  the 
past;  poetry  for  joy  in  the  beautiful  words,  and  not  merely 
for  the  stories  they  tell.     Then,  as  a  nation's  needs  and 


4  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

knowledge  grow,  it  demands  ever  more  and  more  books  on 
all  kinds  of  subjects. 

And  we  ourselves  grow  and  change  just  as  a  nation  does. 
When  we  are  very  young,  there  are  many  books  which  seem 
to  us  dull  and  stupid.  But  as  we  grow  older  and  leayn 
more,  we  begin  to  like  more  and  more  kinds  of  books.  We 
may  still  love  the  stories  that  we  loved  as  children,  but  we 
love  others  too.  And  at  last,  perhaps,  there  comes  a  time 
when  those  books  which  seemed  to  us  most  dull  and  stupid 
delight  us  most. 

At  first,  too,  we  care  only  for  the  story  itself.  We  do 
not  mind  very  much  in  what  words  it  is  told  so  long  as  it  is 
a  story.  But  later  we  begin  to  care  very  much  indeed 
what  words  the  story-teller  uses,  and  how  he  uses  them.  It 
is  only,  perhaps,  when  we  have  learned  to  hear  with  our 
ej^es  that  we  know  the  true  joy  of  books.  Yes,  hear  with 
our  eyes,  for  it  is  joy  in  the  sound  of  the  words  that  makes 
our  breath  come  fast,  which  brings  smiles  to  our  lips  or  tears 
to  our  eyes.  Yet  we  do  not  need  to  read  the  words 
aloud,  the  sight  of  the  black  letters  on  the  white  page  is 
enough. 

In  this  book  I  am  going  to  tell  you  about  a  few  of  our 
greatest  story-tellers  and  their  books.  Many  of  these  books 
you  will  not  care  to  read  for  yourselves  for  a  long  time 
to  come.  You  must  be  content  to  be  told  about  them.  You 
must  be  content  to  know  that  there  are  rooms  in  the  fairy 
palace  of  our  Literature  into  which  you  cannot  enter  yet. 
But  every  year,  as  your  knowledge  grows,  you  will  find 
that  new  keys  have  been  put  into  your  hands  with  which 
you  may  unlock  the  doors  which  are  now  closed.  And  with 
every  door  that  you  unlock,  you  will  become  aware  of  others 
and  still  others  that  are  yet  shut  fast,  until  at  last  you  learn, 
with  something  of  pain,  that  the  great  palace  of  our  Litera- 
ture is  so  vast  that  you  can  never  hope  to  open  all  the  doors 
even  to  peep  inside. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE  STORY  OF  THE  CATTLE  RAID  OF  COOLEY 

Our  earliest  literature  was  history  and  poetry.  Indeed,  we 
might  say  poetry  only,  for  in  those  far-off  times  history 
was  always  poetry,  it  being  only  through  the  songs  of  the 
bards  and  minstrels  that  history  was  known.  And  when 
I  say  history  I  do  not  mean  history  as  we  know  it.  It  was 
then  merely  the  gallant  tale  of  some  hero's  deeds  listened 
to  because  it  was  a  gallant  tale. 

Now  the  people  who  lived  in  the  British  Isles  long  ago 
were  not  English.  It  will  be  simplest  for  us  to  call  them 
all  Celts  and  to  divide  them  into  two  families,  the  Gaels  and 
the  Cymry.  The  Gaels  lived  in  Ireland  and  in  Scotland, 
and  the  Cymiy  in  England  and  Wales. 

It  is  to  Ireland  that  we  must  go  for  the  very  beginnings 
of  our  Literature,  for  the  Roman  conquest  did  not  touch 
Ireland,  and  the  English,  who  later  conquered  and  took 
possession  of  Britain,  hardly  troubled  the  Green  Isle.  So 
for  centuries  the  Gaels  of  Ireland  told  their  tales  and 
handed  them  on  from  father  to  son  undisturbed,  and  in 
Ireland  a  great  many  old  writings  have  been  kept  which 
tell  of  far-off  times.  These  old  Irish  manuscripts  are  per- 
haps none  of  them  older  than  the  eleventh  century,  but  the 
stories  are  far,  far  older.  They  were,  we  may  believe,  passed 
on  by  word  of  mouth  for  many  generations  before  they 
were  written  down,  and  they  have  kept  the  feeling  of  those 
far-off  times. 


6  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

It  was  from  Ireland  that  the  Scots  came  to  Scotland, 
and  when  they  came  they  brought  with  them  many  tales. 
So  it  comes  about  that  in  old  Scottish  and  in  old  Irish  manu- 
scripts we  find  the  same  stories. 

Many  of  the  manuscripts  which  are  kept  in  Ireland  have 
never  been  translated  out  of  the  old  Irish  in  which 
they  were  written,  so  they  are  closed  books  to  all  but  a 
few  scholars,  and  we  need  not  talk  about  them.  But  of 
one  of  the  great  treasures  of  old  Irish  literature  we  will  talk. 
This  is  the  Leabhar  Na  li-JJidhre,  or  Booh  of  the  Dun  Com. 
It  is  called  so  because  the  stories  in  it  were  first  written 
down  by  St.  Ciaran  in  a  book  made  from  the  skin  of  a 
favorite  cow  of  a  dun  color.  That  book  has  long  been 
lost,  and  this  copy  of  it  was  made  in  the  eleventh  cen- 
tury. 

The  name  of  this  old  book  helps  us  to  remember  that 
long  ago  there  was  no  paper,  and  that  books  were  written 
on  vellum  made  from  calf -skin  and  upon  parchment  made 
from  sheep-skin.  It  was  not  until  the  twelfth  century  that 
paper  began  to  be  made  in  some  parts  of  Europe,  and  it 
was  not  until  the  fifteenth  century  that  paper  books  be- 
came common  in  England. 

In  the  Booh  of  the  Dun  Cow,  and  in  another  old  book 
called  the  Booh  of  Leiiister,  there  is  written  the  great  Irish 
legend  called  the  Tain  Bo  Chuailgne  or  the  Cattle  Raid  of 
Cooley. 

This  is  a  very  old  tale  of  the  time  soon  after  the  birth  of 
Christ.  In  the  book  we  are  told  how  this  story  had  been 
written  down  long,  long  ago  in  a  book  called  the  Great 
Booh  Written  on  Shins.  But  a  learned  man  carried  away 
that  book  to  the  East.  Then,  when  many  years  had  passed, 
people  began  to  forget  the  story  of  the  Cattle  Raid.  So 
the  chief  minstrel  called  all  the  other  minstrels  together  to 
ask  if  any  of  them  knew  the  tale.  But  none  of  them  could 
remember  more  than  a  few  verses  of  it.    Therefore  the  chief 


THE  CATTLE  RAID  OF  COOLEY     7 

minstrel  asked  all  his  pupils  to  travel  into  far  countries  to 
search  for  the  rest  which  was  lost. 

What  followed  is  told  differently  in  different  books, 
but  all  agree  in  this,  that  a  great  chief  called  Fergus  came 
back  from  the  dead  in  order  to  tell  the  tale,  which  was  again 
written  down. 

The  story  is  one  of  the  beautiful  Queen  Meav  of  Con- 
naught.  For  many  years  she  had  lived  happily  with 
her  husband  and  her  children.  But  one  day  the  Queen 
and  her  husband  began  to  argue  as  to  which  of  them  was 
the  richer.  As  they  could  not  agree,  they  ordered  all  their 
treasures  to  be  brought  before  them  that  they  might  be  com- 
pared. 

So  first  all  their  wooden  and  metal  vessels  were  brought. 
But  they  were  both  alike. 

Then  all  their  jewels,  their  rings  and  bracelets,  neck- 
lets and  crowns  were  brought,  but  they,  too,  w^ere 
equal. 

Then  all  their  robes  were  brought,  crimson  and  blue, 
green,  yellow,  checked  and  striped,  black  and  white.  They, 
too,  were  equal. 

Next  from  the  fields  and  pastures  great  herds  of  sheep 
were  brought.     They,  too,  were  equal. 

Then  from  the  green  plains  fleet  horses,  champing  steeds 
came.  Great  herds  of  swine  from  forest  and  glen  were 
brought.     They,  too,  were  equal. 

Lastly,  droves  and  droves  of  cattle  were  brought.  In 
the  King's  herd  there  was  a  young  bull  named  White- 
horned.  When  a  calf,  he  had  belonged  to  Meav's  herd, 
but  being  very  proud,  and  thinking  it  little  honor  to  be 
under  the  rule  of  a  woman,  he  had  left  Meav's  herd  and 
joined  himself  to  the  King's.  This  bull  was  very  beautiful. 
His  head  and  horns  and  hoofs  were  white,  and  all  the  rest 
of  him  was  red.  He  was  so  great  and  splendid  that  in  all 
the  Queen's  herd  there  was  none  to  match  him. 


8  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Then  Meav's  sorrow  was  bitter,  and  calling  a  messenger, 
she  asked  if  he  knew  where  might  be  found  a  young  bull 
to  match  with  White-horned. 

The  messenger  replied  that  he  knew  of  a  much  finer 
bull  called  Donn  Chuailgne,  or  Brown  Bull  of  Cooley, 
which  belonged  to  Dawra,  the  chief  of  Ulster. 

"Go,  then,"  said  Meav,  "and  ask  Dawra  to  lend  me  the 
Bull  for  a  year.  Tell  him  that  he  shall  be  well  repaid,  that 
he  shall  receive  fifty  heifers  and  Brown  Bull  back  again 
at  the  end  of  that  time.  And  if  Dawra  should  seem  un- 
willing to  lend  Brown  Bull,  tell  him  that  he  may  come  with 
it  himself,  and  that  he  shall  receive  here  land  equal  to  his 
own,  a  chariot  worth  thirty-six  cows,  and  he  shall  have 
my  friendship  ever  after." 

So  taking  with  him  nine  others,  the  messenger  set  out 
and  soon  arrived  at  Cooley.  And  when  Dawra  heard  why 
the  messengers  had  come,  he  received  them  kindly,  and 
said  at  once  that  they  should  have  Brown  Bull. 

Then  the  messengers  began  to  speak  and  boast  among 
themselves.  "It  was  well,"  said  one,  "that  Dawra  granted 
us  the  Bull  willingly,  otherwise  we  had  taken  it  by  force." 

As  he  spoke,  a  servant  of  Dawra  came  with  food  and 
drink  for  the  strangers,  and  hearing  how  they  spoke  among 
themselves,  he  hastily  and  in  wrath  dashed  the  food  upon 
the  table,  and  returning  to  his  master  repeated  to  him 
the  words  of  the  messenger. 

Then  was  Dawra  very  wrathful.  And  when,  in  the 
morning,  the  messengers  came  before  him  asking  that  he 
should  fulfill  his  promise,  he  refused  them. 

So,  empty-handed,  the  messengers  returned  to  Queen 
Meav.  And  she,  full  of  anger,  decided  to  make  good  the 
boastful  words  of  her  messenger  and  take  Brown  Bull  by 
force. 

Then  began  a  mighty  war  between  the  men  of  Ulster 
and  the  men  of  Connaught.     And  after  many  fights  there 


THE  CATTLE  RAID  OF  COOLEY     9 

was  a  great  battle  in  which  Meav  was  defeated.  Yet 
was  she  triumphant,  for  she  had  gained  possession  of  the 
Brown    Bull. 

But  the  Queen  had  little  cause  for  triumph,  for  when 
Brown  Bull  and  White-horned  met  there  was  a  fearful 
combat  between  them.  The  whole  land  echoed  with  their 
bellowing.  The  earth  shook  beneath  their  feet  and  the 
sky  grew  dark  with  flying  sods  of  earth  and  with  flecks  of 
foam.  After  long  fighting  Brown  Bull  conquered,  and 
goring  White-horned  to  death,  ran  oif  with  him  impaled 
upon  his  horns,  shaking  his  shattered  body  to  pieces  as 
he  ran. 

But  Brown  Bull,  too,  was  wounded  to  death.  JNIad 
with  pain  and  wounds,  he  turned  to  his  own  land,  and  there 

"He  lay  down 
Against  the  hill,  and  his  great  heart  broke  there, 
And  sent  a  stream  of  blood  down  all  the  slope; 
And  thus,  when  all  the  war  and  Tain  had  ended. 
In  his  own  land,  'midst  his  own  hills,  he  died."  ^ 

The  Cattle  Raid  of  Cooley  is  a  strange  wild  tale,  yet 
from  it  we  can  learn  a  great  deal  about  the  life  of  these 
old,  far-away  times.  We  can  learn  from  it  something  of 
what  the  people  did  and  thought,  and  how  they  lived,  and 
even  of  what  they  wore.  Here  is  a  description  of  a  driver 
and  his  war  chariot,  translated,  of  course,  into  English 
prose.  "It  is  then  that  the  charioteer  arose,  and  he  put 
on  his  hero's  dress  of  charioteering.  This  was  the  hero's 
dress  of  charioteering  that  he  put  on:  his  soft  tunic  of 
skin,  light  and  airy,  well  tanned,  made  of  skin,  sewn,  of 
deer  skin,  so  that  it  did  not  restrain  the  movement  of  his 
hands  outside.  He  put  on  his  black  upper  cloak  over  it 
outside.  .  .  .  The  charioteer  took  first  then  his  helm, 
ridged  like  a  board,  four-cornered.  .  .  .  This  was  well 
measured  to  him,  and  it  was  not  an  over  weight.    His  hand 

*  The  Tain,  by  Mary  A.  Hutton. 


10  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

brought  the  circlet  of  red-yellow,  as  though  it  were  a  plate 
of  red  gold,  of  refined  gold  smelted  over  the  edge  of  the 
anvil,  to  his  brow  as  a  sign  of  his  charioteering,  as  a  dis- 
tinction to  his  master. 

"He  took  the  goads  to  his  horses,  and  his  whip  inlaid 
in  his  right  hand.  He  took  the  reins  to  hold  back  his 
horses  in  his  left  hand.  Then  he  put  the  iron  inlaid  breast- 
plate on  his  horses,  so  that  they  were  covered  from  forehead 
to  fore-foot  with  spears,  and  points,  and  lances,  and  hard 
points,  so  that  every  motion  in  this  chariot  was  war-near, 
so  that  every  corner,  and  every  point,  and  every  end,  and 
every  front  of  this  chariot  was  a  way  of  tearing."  ^ 

We  can  almost  see  that  wild  charioteer  and  his  horses, 
sheathed  in  bristling  armor  with  "every  front  a  way  of 
tearing,"  as  they  dash  amid  the  foe.  And  all  through  we 
come  on  lines  like  these  full  of  color  and  detail,  which  tell 
us  of  the  life  of  those  folk  of  long  ago. 

*  The  Cattle  Raid  of  Cualnge,  by  L.  W.  Faraday. 


CHAPTER  III 

ONE  OF  THE  SORROWS  OF  STORY-TELLING 

The  Tain  gives  us  vivid  pictures  of  people  and  things,  but 
it  is  not  full  of  beauty  and  of  tender  imagination  like  many 
of  the  Gaelic  stories.  Among  the  most  beautiful  and  best 
known  of  these  are  perhaps  the  Three  Sorrows  of  Story- 
Telling.  These  three  stories  are  called:  The  Tragedy  of 
the  Children  of  Lir;  The  Tragedy  of  the  Children  of 
Tuireann;  and  Deirdre  and  the  Sons  of  Usnach.  Of  the 
three  the  last  is  perhaps  the  most  interesting,  because  the 
story  happened  partly  in  Scotland  and  partly  in  Ireland, 
and  it  is  found  both  in  old  Irish  and  in  old  Scottish  manu- 
scripts. 

The  story  is  told  in  many  old  books,  and  in  many  ways 
both  in  prose  and  in  verse.  The  oldest  and  shortest 
version  is  in  the  Book  of  JLeinster,  the  same  book  in  which 
is   found   The  Tain. 

The  tale  goes  that  one  day  King  Conor  and  his  nobles 
feasted  at  the  house  of  Felim,  his  chief  story-teller.  And 
while  they  feasted  a  daughter  was  born  to  Felim  the 
story-teller.  Then  Cathbad  the  Druid,  who  was  also  at 
the  feast,  became  exceeding  sad.  He  foretold  that  great 
sorrow  and  evil  should  come  upon  the  land  because  of  this 
child,  and  so  he  called  her  Deirdre,  which  means  trouble 
or  alarm. 

When  the  nobles  heard  that,  they  wished  to  slay  the 
new-born  babe.    But  Conor  spoke. 

"Let  it  not  be  so  done,"  he  said.    "It  were  an  ill  thing 

11 


12  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

to  shed  the  blood  of  an  innocent  child.  I  myself  shall  care 
for  her.  She  shall  be  housed  in  a  safe  place  so  that  none 
may  come  nigh  to  her,  and  when  she  is  grown  she  shall 
be  my  one  true  wife." 

So  it  was  done  as  King  Conor  said.  Deirdre  was 
placed  in  a  safe  and  lonely  castle,  where  she  was  seen  of 
none  save  her  tutor  and  her  nurse,  Lavarcam.  There, 
as  the  years  passed,  she  grew  tall  and  fair  as  a  slender  lily, 
and  more  beautiful  than  sunshine. 

Now  when  fourteen  years  had  passed,  it  happened  one 
snowy  day  that  Deirdre's  tutor  killed  a  calf  to  provide 
food  for  their  little  company.  And  as  the  calf's  blood 
was  spilled  upon  the  snow,  a  raven  came  to  drink  of  it. 
When  Deirdre  saw  that,  she  sighed  and  said,  "Would  that 
I  had  a  husband  whose  hair  was  as  the  color  of  the  raven, 
his  cheeks  as  blood,  and  his  skin  as  snow." 

"There  is  such  an  one,"  said  Lavarcam,  "he  is  Naisi  the 
son  of  Usnach." 

After  that  there  was  no  rest  for  Deirdre  until  she  had 
seen  Naisi.  And  when  they  met  they  loved  each  other, 
so  that  Naisi  took  her  and  fled  with  her  to  Scotland  far 
from  Conor  the  King.  For  they  knew  that  when  the 
King  learned  that  fair  Deirdre  had  been  stolen  from  him, 
he  would  be  exceeding  wrathful. 

There,  in  Scotland,  Deirdre  and  Naisi  lived  for  many 
years  happily.  With  them  were  Ainle  and  Ardan, 
Naisi's  two  brothers,  who  also  loved  their  sister  Deirdre 
well. 

But  Conor  never  forgot  his  anger  at  the  escape  of 
Deirdre.  He  longed  still  to  have  her  as  his  Queen,  and  at 
last  he  sent  a  messenger  to  lure  the  fair  lady  and  the  three 
brave  brothers  back  to  Ireland. 

"Naisi  and  Deirdre  were  seated  together  one  day, 
and  between  them  Conor's  chess  board,  they  playing 
upon  it. 


THE  SORROWS  OF  STORY-TELLING      13 

"Naisi  heard  a  cry  and  said,  T  hear  the  call  of  a  man 
of  Erin.' 

"  'That  was  not  the  call  of  a  man  of  Erin,'  says 
Deirdre,  'but  the  call  of  a  man  of  Alba.' 

"Deirdre  knew  the  first  cry  of  Fergus,  but  she  concealed 
it.     Fergus  uttered  the  second  cry. 

"  'That  is  the  cry  of  a  man  of  Erin,'  says  Naisi. 

"  'It  is  not  indeed,'  says  Deirdre,  'and  let  us  play 
on.' 

"Fergus  sent  forth  the  third  cry,  and  the  sons  of 
Usnach  knew  it  was  Fergus  that  sent  forth  the  cry.  And 
Naisi  ordered  Ardan  to  go  to  meet  Fergus.  Then  Deirdre 
declared  she  knew  the  first  call  sent  forth  by  Fergus. 

"  'Why  didst  thou  conceal  it,  then,  my  Queen?'  says 
Naisi. 

"  *A  vision  I  saw  last  night,'  says  Deirdre,  'namely 
that  three  birds  came  unto  us  having  three  sups  of  honey 
in  their  beaks,  and  that  they  left  them  with  us,  and  that 
they  took  three  sups  of  our  blood  with  them.' 

"  'What  determination  hast  thou  of  that,  O 
Princess?'  saj^s  Naisi. 

"  'It  is,'  says  Deirdre,  'that  Fergus  comes  unto  us 
with  a  message  of  peace  from  Conor,  for  more  sweet  is  not 
honey  than  the  message  of  peace  of  the  false  man.' 

"  'Let  that  be,'  says  Naisi.  'Fergus  is  long  in  the 
port;  and  go,  Ardan,  to  meet  him  and  bring  him  with 
thee.'  "  ^ 

And  when  Fergus  came  there  were  kindly  greetings 
between  the  friends  who  had  been  long  parted.  Then 
Fergus  told  the  three  brothers  that  Conor  had  forgiven 
them,  and  that  he  longed  to  see  them  back  again  in  the 
land  of  Erin. 

So  although  the  heart  of  Deirdre  was  sad  and  heavy 
with  foreboding  of  evil,  they  set  sail  for  the  land  of  Erin. 

*  Theophilus   O'Flanagan. 


14  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

But  Deirdre  looked  behind  her  as  the  shore  faded  from 
sight  and  sang  a  mournful  song: — 

"O  eastern  land  I  leave,  I  loved  you  well, 
Home  of  my  heart,  I  loved  and  love  you  well, 
I  ne'er  had  left  you  had  not  Naisi  left."  ^ 

And  so  they  fared  on  their  journey  and  came  at  last 
to  Conor's  palace.  And  the  story  tells  how  the  boding 
sorrow  that  Deirdre  felt  fulfilled  itself,  and  how  they  were 
betrayed,  and  how  the  brothers  fought  and  died,  and  how 
Deirdre  mourned  until 

"Her  heart-strings  snapt. 
And  death  had  overmastered  her.     She  fell 
Into  the  grave  where  Naisi  lay  and  slept. 
There  at  his  side  the  child  of  Felim  fell, 
The  fair-haired  daughter  of  a  hundred  smiles. 
Men  piled  their  grave  and  reared  their  stone  on  high, 
And  wrote  their  names  in  Ogham. ^     So  they  lay 
All  four  luiited  in  the  dream  of  death."  ^ 

Such  in  a  few  words  is  the  story  of  Deirdre.  But  you 
must  read  the  tale  itself  to  find  out  how  beautiful  it  is. 
That  you  can  easily  do,  for  it  has  been  translated  many 
times  out  of  the  old  Gaelic  in  which  it  was  first  written, 
and  it  has  been  told  so  simply  that  even  those  of  you  who 
are  quite  young  can  read  it  for  yourselves. 

In  both  The  Tain  and  in  Deirdre  we  find  the  love  of 
fighting,  the  brave  joy  of  the  strong  man  when  he  finds  a 
gallant  foe.  The  Tain  is  such  history  as  those  far-off  times 
afforded,  but  it  is  history  touched  with  fancy,  wrought 
with  poetry.  In  the  Three  Sorrows  we  have  Romance. 
They  are  what  we  might  call  the  novels  of  the  time.  It  is 
in  stories  like  these  that  we  find  the  keen  sense  of  what  is 
beautiful  in  nature,  the  sense  of  "man's  brotherhood  with 
bird   and  beast,   star  and  flower,"  which  has   become  the 

*  Douglas    Hyde.  '  Ancient    Gaelic   writing.  ^  Douglas    Hyde. 


THE  SORROWS  OF  STORY-TELLING      15 

mark  of  "Celtic"  literature.  We  cannot  put  it  into  words, 
perhaps,  for  it  is  something  mystic  and  strange,  something 
that  takes  us  nearer  fairyland  and  makes  us  see  that  land 
of  dreams  with  clearer  eyes. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

The  Celtic   Wonder   World,  by   C.   L.   Thomson.      The  Enchanted  Land    (for 
version  of  Deirdre),  by  L.  Chisholm.     Three  Sorrows  (verse),  by  Douglas  Hyde. 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE  STORY  OF  A  LITERARY  LIE 

Who  wrote  the  stories  which  are  found  in  the  old  Gaelic 
manuscripts  we  do  not  know,  yet  the  names  of  some  of 
the  old  Gaelic  poets  have  come  down  to  us.  The  best 
known  of  all  is  perhaps  that  of  Ossian.  But  as  Ossian, 
if  he  ever  lived,  lived  in  the  third  century,  as  it  is  not 
probable  that  his  poems  were  written  down  at  the  time, 
and  as  the  oldest  books  that  we  have  containing  any  of 
his  poetry  were  written  in  the  twelfth  century,  it  is  very 
difficult  to  be  sure  that  he  really  made  the  poems  called 
by  his  name. 

Ossian  was  a  warrior  and  chief  as  well  as  a  poet,  and 
as  a  poet  he  is  claimed  both  by  Scotland  and  by  Ireland. 
But  perhaps  his  name  has  become  more  nearly  linked  to 
Scotland  because  of  the  story  that  I  am  going  to  tell  you 
now.  It  belongs  really  to  a  time  much  later  than  that  of 
which  we  have  been  speaking,  but  because  it  has  to  do 
with  this  old  Gaelic  poet  Ossian,  I  think  you  will  like  to 
hear  it  now. 

In  a  lonely  Highland  village  more  than  a  hundred 
and  fifty  years  ago  there  lived  a  little  boy  called  James 
Macpherson.  His  father  and  mother  were  poor  farmer 
people,  and  James  ran  about  barefooted  and  wild  among 
the  hills  and  glens.  When  he  was  about  seven  years  old 
the  quiet  of  his  Highland  home  was  broken  by  the  sounds 
of  war,  for  the  Highland  folk  had  risen  in  rebellion  against 
King  George  ii.,  and  were  fighting  for  Prince   Charlie, 

16 


THE  STORY  OF  A  LITERARY  LIE         17 

hoping  to  have  a  Stewart  king  once  more.  This  was  the 
rebellion  called  the  '45,  for  it  was  fought  in  1745. 

Now  little  James  watched  the  red  coats  of  the  southern 
soldiers  as,  with  bayonets  gleaming  in  the  sun,  they 
wound  through  the  glens.  He  heard  the  Highland  battle- 
cry  and  the  clash  of  steel  on  steel,  for  fighting  came  near 
his  home,  and  his  own  people  joined  the  standard  of  the 
Pretender.  Little  James  never  forgot  these  things,  and 
long  afterwards,  when  he  grew  to  be  a  man  and  wrote 
poetry,  it  was  full  of  the  sounds  of  battle,  full,  too,  of  love 
for  mountain  and  glen  and  their  rolling  mists. 

The  ]Macphersons  were  poor,  but  they  saw  that  their 
son  was  clever,  and  they  determined  that  he  should  be  well 
taught.  So  when  he  left  school  they  sent  him  to  college, 
first  to  Aberdeen  and  then  to  Edinburgh. 

Before  he  was  twenty  James  had  left  college  and 
become  master  of  the  school  in  his  own  native  village. 
He  did  not,  however,  like  that  very  much,  and  soon  gave 
it  up  to  become  tutor  in  a  family. 

By  this  time  James  Macpherson  had  begun  to  write 
poetry.  He  had  also  gathered  together  some  pieces  of 
old  Gaelic  poetry  which  he  had  found  among  the  High- 
land folk.  These  he  showed  to  some  other  poets  and 
writers  whom  he  met,  and  they  thought  them  so  beautiful 
that  he  published  them  in  a  book. 

The  book  was  a  great  success.  All  who  read  it  were 
delighted  with  the  poems,  and  said  that  if  there  was  any 
more  such  poetry  in  the  Highlands,  it  should  be  gathered 
together  and  printed  before  it  was  lost  and  forgotten  for 
ever.  For  since  the  '45  the  English  had  done  everything 
to  make  the  Highlanders  forget  their  old  language  and 
customs.  They  were  forbidden  to  wear  the  kilt  or  the 
tartan,  and  everything  was  done  to  make  them  speak 
English  and  forget  Gaelic. 

So  now  people  begged  INIacpherson  to  travel  through 


18  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  Highlands  and  gather  together  as  much  of  the  0I4 
poetry  of  the  people  as  he  could.  Macpherson  was  at 
first  unwillmg  to  go.  For  one  thing,  he  quite  frankly 
owned  that  he  was  not  a  good  Gaelic  scholar.  But  at 
length  he  consented  and  set  out. 

For  four  months  INIacpherson  wandered  about  the 
Highlands  and  Islands  of  Scotland,  listening  to  the  tales 
of  the  people  and  writing  them  down.  Sometimes,  too, 
he  came  across  old  manuscripts  with  ancient  tales  in  them. 
When  he  had  gathered  all  he  could,  he  returned  to  Edin- 
burgh and  set  to  work  to  translate  the  stories  into  English. 

When  this  new  book  of  Gaelic  poetry  came  out,  it  again 
was  a  great  success.  It  was  greeted  with  delight  by  the 
greatest  poets  of  France,  Germany,  and  Italy,  and  was 
soon  translated  into  many  languages.  INIacpherson  was 
no  longer  a  poor  Highland  laddie,  but  a  man  of  world-wide 
fame.  Yet  it  was  not  because  of  his  own  poetry  that  he 
was  famous,  but  because  he  had  found  (so  he  said)  some 
poems  of  a  man  who  lived  fifteen  hundred  years  before, 
and  translated  them  into  English.  And  although  Mac- 
pherson's  book  is  called  The  Poems  of  Ossian,  it  is  written 
in  prose.  But  it  is  a  prose  which  is  often  far  more  beautiful 
and  poetical  than  much  that  is  called  poetry. 

Although  at  first  IMacpherson's  book  was  received 
with  great  delight,  soon  people  began  to  doubt  about  it. 
The  Irish  first  of  all  were  jealous,  for  they  said  that  Ossian 
was  an  Irish  poet,  that  the  heroes  of  the  poems  were  Irish, 
and  that  Macpherson  was  stealing  their  national  heroes 
from  them. 

Then  in  England  people  began  to  say  that  there  never 
had  been  an  Ossian  at  all,  and  that  Macpherson  had  in- 
vented both  the  poems  and  all  the  people  that  they  were 
about.  For  the  English  knew  little  of  the  Highlanders 
and  their  customs.  Even  after  the  '15  and  the  '45  people 
in  the  south  knew  little  about  the  north   and  those  who 


THE  STORY  OF  A  LITERARY  LIE         19 

lived  there.  They  thought  of  it  as  a  land  of  wild  mountains 
and  glens,  a  land  of  mists  and  cloud,  a  land  where  wild 
chieftains  ruled  over  still  wilder  clans,  who,  in  their  lonety 
valleys  and  sea-girt  islands,  were  for  ever  warring  against 
each  other.  How  could  such  a  people,  they  asked,  a 
people  of  savages,  make  beautiful  poetry? 

Dr.  Samuel  Johnson,  a  great  writer  of  whom  we  shall 
hear  more  later,  was  the  man  of  his  day  wdiose  opinion 
about  books  was  most  thought  of.  He  hated  Scotland 
and  the  Scottish  folk,  and  did  not  believe  that  any  good 
thing  could  come  from  them.  He  read  the  poems  and  said 
that  they  were  rubbish,  such  as  any  child  could  write,  and 
that  Macpherson  had  made  them  all  up. 

So  a  quarrel,  which  has  become  famous,  began  between 
the  two  men.  And  as  Dr.  Johnson  was  far  better  known 
than  Macpherson,  most  people  agreed  with  him  and  be- 
lieved that  ^lacpherson  had  told  a  "literary  lie,"  and  that 
he  had  made  up  all  the  stories. 

There  is  no  harm  in  making  up  stories.  Nearly  every 
one  who  writes  does  that.  But  it  is  wrong  to  make  up 
stories  and  then  pretend  that  they  were  written  by  some 
one  else  more  famous  than  yourself. 

Dr.  Johnson  and  Macpherson  w^ere  very  angry  with 
and  very  rude  to  each  other.  Still  that  did  not  settle  the 
question  as  to  who  had  written  the  stories;  indeed  it  has 
never  been  settled.  And  w^hat  most  men  believe  now  is 
that  iMacpherson  did  really  gather  from  among  the  people 
of  the  Highlands  many  scraps  of  ancient  poetry  and  tales, 
but  that  he  added  to  them  and  put  them  together  in  such  a 
way  as  to  make  them  beautiful  and  touching.  To  do  even 
that,  how^ever,  a  true  poet  w^as  needed,  so  people  have,  for 
the  most  jDart,  given  up  arguing  about  w^hether  iMacpherson 
wrote  Ossian  or  not,  and  are  glad  that  such  a  beautiful 
book  has  been  written  by  some  one. 

I  do  not  think  that  you  will  want  to  read  Ossian  for 


20  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

yourself  for  a  long  time  to  come,  for  the  stories  are  not 
always  easy  to  follow.  They  are,  too,  often  clumsy, 
wandering,  and  badly  put  together.  But  in  spite  of  that 
there  is  much  beauty  in  them,  and  some  day  I  hope  you 
will  read  them. 

In  the  next  chapter  you  will  find  one  of  the  stories  of 
Ossian  called  Fingal.  Fingal  was  a  great  warrior  and  the 
father  of  Ossian,  and  the  story  takes  place  in  Ireland.  It 
is  told  partly  in  Macpherson's  words. 


CHAPTER  V 

THE  STORY  OF  FINGAL 

"Cathullin  sat  by  Tura's  wall,  by  the  tree  of  the 
rustling  sound.  His  spear  leaned  against  a  rock.  His 
shield  lay  on  grass,  by  his  side.  And  as  he  thus  sat 
deep  in  thought  a  scout  came  running  in  all  haste  and 
cried,  'Ai-ise!  CathuUin,  arise!  I  see  the  ships  of  the 
north.  Many,  chief  of  men,  are  the  foe!  Many  the 
heroes  of  the  sea-born  Swaran!' 

"Then  to  the  scout  the  blue-eyed  chief  rephed,  'Thou 
ever  tremblest.  Thy  fears  have  increased  the  foe.  It  is 
Fingal  King  of  deserts  who  comes  with  aid  to  green  Erin 
of  streams.' 

"  'Nay,  I  beheld  their  chief,'  replied  the  scout,  'tall  as 
a  glittering  rock.  His  spear  is  a  blasted  pine.  His  shield 
the  rising  moon.  He  bade  me  say  to  thee,  "Let  dark 
Cathullin  yield."  ' 

"  'No,'  replied  the  blue-eyed  chief,  'I  never  yield  to 
mortal  man.     Dark  Cathullin  shall  be  great  or  dead.'  " 

Then  Cathullin  bade  the  scout  summon  his  warriors 
to  council.  And  when  they  were  gathered  there  was  much 
talk,  for  some  would  give  battle  at  once  and  some  delay 
until  Fingal,  the  King  of  Morven,  should  come  to  did  them. 
But  Cathullin  himself  was  eager  to  fight,  so  forward  they 
marched  to  meet  the  foe.  And  the  sound  of  their  going  was 
"as  the  rushing  of  a  stream  of  foam  when  the  thunder  is 
traveling  above,  and  dark-brown  night  sits  on  half  the 
hill."  To  the  camp  of  Swaran  was  the  sound  carried,  so 
that  he  sent  a  messenger  to  view  the  foe. 

21 


22  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"He  went.  He  trembling,  swift  returned.  His  eyes 
rolled  wildly  round.  His  heart  beat  high  against  his  side. 
His  words  were  faltering,  broken,  slow.  'Arise,  son  of 
ocean!  arise,  chief  of  the  dark  brown  shields!  I  see  the 
dark,  the  mountain  stream  of  battle.  Fly,  King  of  ocean! 
Fly!' 

'"When  did  I  fly?'  replied  the  King.  'When  fled 
Swaran  from  the  battle  of  spears?  When  did  I  shrink 
from  danger,  chief  of  the  little  soul?  Shall  Swaran  fly 
from  a  hero?  Were  Fingal  himself  before  me  my  soul 
should  not  darken  in  fear.  Arise,  to  battle  my  thousands! 
pour  round  me  like  the  echoing  main.  Gather  round  the 
bright  steel  of  your  King;  strong  as  the  rocks  of  my  land, 
that  meet  the  storm  with  joy,  and  stretch  their  dark  pines 
to  the  wind.' 

"Like  autumn's  dark  storms,  pouring  from  two  echo- 
ing hills,  towards  each  other  approached  the  heroes.  Like 
two  deep  streams  from  high  rocks  meeting,  mixing,  roaring 
ol  the  plain;  loud,  rough  and  dark  in  battle  meet  Locfalin 
and  Innis-fail.  Chief  mixes  his  strokes  with  chief,  and 
man  with  man;  steel  clanging  sounds  on  steel.  Helmets 
are  cleft  on  high.  Blood  bursts  and  smokes  around. 
Strings  murmur  on  the  pohshed  yews.  Darts  rush  along 
the  sky,  spears  fall  like  the  circles  of  light  which  gild  the 
face  of  night.  As  the  noise  of  the  troubled  ocean  when 
roll  the  waves  on  high,  as  the  last  peal  of  thunder  in 
heaven,  such  is  the  din  of  war.  Though  Cormac's  hundred 
bards  were  there  to  give  the  fight  to  song,  feeble  was  the 
voice  of  a  hundred  bards  to  send  the  deaths  to  future 
times.  For  many  were  the  deaths  of  heroes;  wide  poured 
the  blood  of  the  brave." 

Then  above  the  clang  and  clamor  of  dreadful  battle 
we  hear  the  mournful  dirge  of  minstrels  wailing  o'er  the 

dead. 

"Mourn,  ye  sons  of  song,  mourn!    Weep  on  the  rocks 


THE  STORY  OF  FINGAL  23 

of  roaring  winds,  O  maid  of  Inistore!  Bend  thy  fair 
head  over  the  waves,  thou  lovelier  than  the  ghost  of  the 
hills,  when  it  moves,  in  a  sunbeam  at  noon,  over  the 
silence  of  IMorven.  He  is  fallen!  thy  youth  is  low!  pale 
beneath  the  sword  of  Cathullin.  No  more  shall  valor 
raise  thy  love  to  match  the  blood  of  kings.  His  gray 
dogs  are  howling  at  home,  they  see  his  passing  ghost. 
His  bow  is  in  the  hall  unstrung.  No  sound  is  on  the  hill 
of  his  hinds." 

Then  once  again,  the  louder  for  the  mourning  pause,  we 
hear  the  din  of  battle. 

"As  roll  a  thousand  waves  to  the  rocks,  so  Swaran's 
host  came  on.  As  meets  a  rock  a  thousand  waves,  so 
Erin  met  Swaran  of  spears.  Death  raises  all  his  voices 
around,  and  mixes  with  the  sounds  of  shields.  Each  hero 
is  a  pillar  of  darkness ;  the  sword  a  beam  of  fire  in  his  hand. 
The  field  echoes  from  wing  to  wing,  as  a  hundred  hammers 
that  rise  by  turn,  on  the  red  son  of  the  furnace." 

But  now  the  day  is  waning.  To  the  noise  and  horror, 
of  battle  the  mystery  of  darkness  is  added.  Friend  and 
foe  are  wrapped  in  the  dimness  of  twilight. 

But  the  fight  was  not  ended,  for  neither  Cathullin  nor 
Swaran  had  gained  the  victory,  and  ere  gray  morning 
broke  the  battle  was  renewed. 

And  in  this  second  day's  fight  Swaran  was  the  victor, 
but  while  the  battle  still  raged  white-sailed  ships  appeared 
upon  the  sea.  It  was  Fingal  who  came,  and  Swaran  had 
to  fight  a  second  foe. 

"Now  from  the  gray  mists  of  the  ocean,  the  white-sailed 
ships  of  Fingal  appeared.  High  is  the  grove  of  their  masts, 
as  they  nod  by  turns  on  the  rolling  wave." 

Swaran  saw  them  from  the  hill  on  which  he  fought,  and 
turning  from  the  pursuit  of  the  men  of  Erin,  he  marched 
to  meet  Fingal.  But  Cathullin,  beaten  and  ashamed, 
fled  to  hide  himself:  "bending,  weeping,  sad  and  slow,  and 


24  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

dragging  his  long  spear  behind,  Cathulhn  sank  in  Cromla's 
wood,  and  mourned  his  fallen  friends.  He  feared  the  face 
of  Fingal,  who  was  wont  to  greet  him  from  the  fields  of 
renown." 

But  although  CathuUin  fled,  between  Fingal  and  Swaran 
battle  was  renewed  till  darkness  fell.  A  second  day 
dawned,  and  again  and  again  the  hosts  closed  in  deadly 
combat  until  at  length  Fingal  and  Swaran  met  face  to  face. 

"There  was  a  clang  of  arms!  their  every  blow  like  the 
hundred  hammers  of  the  furnace.  Terrible  is  the  battle 
of  the  kings;  dreadful  the  look  of  their  eyes.  Their 
dark  brown  shields  are  cleft  in  twain.  Their  steel  flies, 
broken  from  their  helms. 

"They  fling  their  weapons  down.  Each  rushes  to  his 
hero's  grasp.  Their  sinewy  arms  bend  round  each  other: 
they  turn  from  side  to  side,  and  strain  and  stretch  their 
large  spreading  limbs  below.  But  when  the  j^ride  of  their 
strength  arose  they  shook  the  hills  with  their  heels. 
Rocks  tumble  from  their  places  on  high;  the  green-headed 
bushes  are  overturned.  At  length  the  strength  of  Swaran 
fell;  the  king  of  the  groves  is  bound." 

The  warriors  of  Swaran  fled  then,  pursued  by  the  sons 
of  Fingal,  till  the  hero  bade  the  fighting  cease,  and  dark- 
ness once  more  fell  over  the  dreadful  field. 

"The  clouds  of  night  come  rolling  down.  Darkness 
rests  on  the  steeps  of  Cromla.  The  stars  of  the  north 
arise  over  the  rolling  of  Erin's  waves:  they  shew  their 
heads  of  fire,  through  the  flying  mist  of  heaven.  A  distant 
wind  roars  in  the  wood.  Silent  and  dark  is  the  plain  of 
death." 

Then  through  the  darkness  is  heard  the  sad  song  of 
minstrels  mourning  for  the  dead.  But  soon  the  scene 
changes  and  mourning  is  forgotten. 

"The  heroes  gathered  to  the  feast.  A  thousand  aged 
oaks   are   burning  to   the  wind.     The   souls   of   warriors 


THE  STORY  OF  FINGAL  25 

brighten  with  joy.  But  the  king  of  Lochlin  (Swaran)  is 
silent.  Sorrow  reddens  in  his  eyes  of  pride.  He  re- 
membered that  he  fell. 

"Fingal  leaned  on  the  shield  of  his  fathers.  His  gray 
locks  slowly  waved  on  the  wind,  and  glittered  to  the  beam 
of  night.  He  saw  the  grief  of  Swaran,  and  spoke  to  the 
first  of  bards. 

"  'Raise,  Ullin,  raise  the  song  of  peace.  O  soothe  my 
soul  from  war.  Let  mine  ear  forget  in  the  sound  the  dismal 
noise  of  arms.  Let  a  hundred  harps  be  near  to  gladden 
the  king  of  Lochlin.  He  must  depart  from  us  with  joy. 
None  ever  went  sad  from  Fingal.  The  lightening  of  my 
sword  is  against  the  strong  in  fight.  Peaceful  it  lies  by 
my  side  when  warriors  yield  in  war.'  " 

So  at  the  bidding  of  Fingal  the  minstrel  sang,  and 
soothed  the  grief  of  Swaran.  And  when  the  music  ceased 
Fingal  spoke  once  more: — 

"  'King  of  Lochlin,  let  thy  face  brighten  with  gladness, 
and  thine  ear  delight  in  the  harp.  Dreadful  as  the  storm 
of  thine  ocean  thou  hast  poured  thy  valor  forth;  thy 
voice  has  been  like  the  voice  of  thousands  when  they 
engage  in  war. 

"  'Raise,  to-morrow,  raise  thy  white  sails  to  the 
wind.  Or  dost  thou  choose  the  fight?  that  thou  mayest 
depart  renowned  like  the  sun  setting  in  the  west.' " 

Then  Swaran  chose  to  depart  in  peace.  He  had  no 
more  will  to  fight  against  Fingal,  so  the  two  heroes  swore 
friendship  together.  Then  once  again  Fingal  called  for 
the  song  of  minstrels. 

"A  hundred  voices  at  once  arose,  a  hundred  harps 
were  strung.  They  sang  of  other  times;  the  mighty 
chiefs  of  other  years."  And  so  the  night  passed  till 
"morning  trembles  with  the  beam  of  the  east;  it  glimmers 
on  Cromla's  side.  Over  Lena  is  heard  the  horn  of  Swaran. 
The  sons  of  the  ocean  gather  around.    Silent  and  sad  they 


26  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

rise  on  the  wave.  The  blast  of  Erin  is  behind  their  sails. 
White  as  the  mist  of  Morven  they  float  along  the  sea." 

Thus  Swaran  and  his  warriors  departed,  and  Fingal, 
calling  his  men  together,  set  forth  to  hunt.  And  as  he 
hunted  far  in  the  woods  he  met  Cathullin,  still  hiding,  sad 
and  ashamed.  But  Fingal  comforted  the  beaten  hero, 
reminding  him  of  past  victories.  Together  they  returned 
to  Fingal's  camp,  and  there  the  heroes  sang  and  feasted 
imtil  "the  soul  of  Cathullin  rose.  The  strength  of  his 
arm  returned.  Gladness  brightened  along  his  face.  Thus 
the  night  passed  away  in  song.  We  brought  back  the 
morning  with  joy. 

"Fingal  arose  on  the  heath  and  shook  his  glittering 
spear.  He  moved  first  towards  the  plain  of  Lena.  We 
followed  in  all  our  arms. 

"  'Spread  the  sail,'  said  the  King,  'seize  the  winds 
as  they  pour  from  Lena.' 

"We  rose  on  the  wave  with  songs.  We  rushed  with 
joy  through  the  foam  of  the  deep." 

Thus  the  hero  returned  to  his  own  land. 


Note. — There  is  no  book  of  Ossian  specially  edited  for  children.  Later  they 
may  like  to  read  the  Century  Edition  of  Macpherson's  Ossian,  edited  by  William 
Sharpe.  Stories  about  Ossian  will  be  found  among  the  many  books  of  Celtic 
tales  now  published. 


CHAPTER  VI 

ABOUT  SOME  OLD  WELSH  STORIES  AND  STORY-TELLERS 

You  remember  that  the  Celtic  family  was  divided  into 
two  branches,  the  Gaelic  and  the  Cymric.  So  far  we  have 
only  spoken  about  the  Gaels,  but  the  Cymry  had  their 
poets  and  historians  too.  The  Cymry,  however,  do  not 
claim  such  great  age  for  their  first  known  poets  as  do  the 
Gaels.  Ossian,  you  remember,  was  supposed  to  live  in 
the  third  century,  but  the  oldest  Cymric  poets  whose 
names  we  know  were  supposed  to  live  in  the  sixth  century. 
As,  however,  the  oldest  Welsh  manuscripts  are  of  the 
twelfth  century,  it  is  again  very  difficult  to  prove  that  any 
of  the  poems  were  really  written  by  those  old  poets. 

But  this  is  very  certain,  that  the  Cymry,  like  the  Gaels, 
had  their  bards  and  minstrels  who  sang  of  the  famous 
deeds  of  heroes  in  the  halls  of  the  chieftains,  or  in  the 
market-places  for  the  people. 

From  the  time  that  the  Romans  left  Britain  to  the  time 
when  the  Saxons  or  English  were  at  length  firmly  settled  in 
the  land,  many  fierce  struggles,  many  stirring  events  must 
have  taken  place.  That  time  must  have  been  full  of  brave 
deeds  such  as  the  minstrels  loved  to  sing.  But  that  part 
of  our  history  is  very  dark.  JMuch  that  is  written  of  it  is 
little  more  than  a  fairy  tale,  for  it  was  not  until  long  after- 
wards that  anything  about  this  time  was  written  down. 

The  great  hero  of  the  struggle  between  the  Britons 
and  the  Saxons  was  King  Arthur,  but  it  was  not  until  many 
many  years  after  the  time  in  which  he  lived  that  all  the 

27 


28  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

splendid  stories  of  his  knights,  of  his  Round  Table,  and  of 
his  great  conquests  began  to  take  the  form  in  which  we 
know  them.  Indeed,  in  the  earliest  Welsh  tales  the  name 
of  Arthur  is  hardly  known  at  all.  When  he  is  mentioned 
it  is  merely  as  a  warrior  among  other  warriors  equally 
great,  and  not  as  the  mighty  emperor  that  we  know. 
The  Arthur  that  we  love  is  the  Arthur  of  literature,  not 
the  Arthur  of  history.  And  I  think  you  may  like  to  follow 
the  story  of  the  Arthur  of  literature,  and  see  how,  from 
very  little,  it  has  grown  so  great  that  now  it  is  known  all 
the  world  over.  I  should  like  you  to  remember,  too,  that 
the  Arthur  story  is  not  the  only  one  which  repeats  itself 
again  and  again  throughout  our  Literature.  There  are 
others  which  have  caught  the  fancy  of  great  masters  and 
have  been  told  by  them  in  varying  ways  throughout  the 
ages.  But  of  them  all,  the  Arthur  story  is  perhaps  the 
best  example. 

Of  the  old  Welsh  poets  it  may,  perhaps,  be  interesting 
to  remember  two.  These  are  Taliesin,  or  "Shining  Fore- 
head," and  Merlin. 

JNIerlin  is  interesting  because  he  is  Arthur's  great  bard 
and  magician.  Taliesin  is  interesting  because  in  a  book 
called  The  Mahinogion,  which  is  a  translation  of  some  of 
the  oldest  Welsh  stories,  we  have  the  tale  of  his  wonderful 
birth  and  life. 

Mabinogion  really  means  tales  for  the  young.  Except 
the  History  of  Taliesin,  all  the  stories  in  this  book  are 
translated  from  a  very  old  manuscript  called  the  Bed 
Book  of  Hergest.  This  Red  Book  belongs  to  the  four- 
teenth century,  but  many  of  the  stories  are  far  far  older, 
having,  it  is  thought,  been  told  in  some  form  or  other  for 
hundreds  of  years  before  they  were  written  down  at  all. 
Unlike  many  old  tales,  too,  they  are  written  in  prose,  not 
in  poetry. 

One  of  the  stories  in  The  Mabinogion,  the  story  of 


WELSH  STORIES  AND  STORY-TELLERS     29 

King  Ludd,  takes  us  back  a  long  way.  King  Ludd  was  a 
king  in  Britain,  and  in  another  book  we  learn  that  he 
was  a  brother  of  Cassevelaunis,  who  fought  against  Julius 
Ceesar,  so  from  that  we  can  judge  of  the  time  in  which  he 
reigned. 

"King  Ludd,"  we  are  told  in  The  Mahinogion,  "ruled 
prosperously  and  rebuilt  the  walls  of  London,  and  encom- 
passed it  about  with  numberless  towers.  And  after  that 
he  bade  the  citizens  build  houses  therein,  such  as  no 
houses  in  the  kingdom  could  equal.  And,  moreover,  he 
was  a  mighty  warrior,  and  generous  and  liberal  in  giving 
meat  and  drink  to  all  that  sought  them.  And  though  he 
had  many  castles  and  cities,  this  one  loved  he  more  than 
any.  And  he  dwelt  therein  most  part  of  the  year,  and 
therefore  was  it  called  Caer  Ludd,  and  at  last  Caer  London. 
And  after  the  strange  race  came  there,  it  was  called 
London."  It  is  interesting  to  remember  that  there  is  still 
a  street  in  London  called  Ludgate.  Caer  is  the  Celtic  word 
for  Castle,  and  is  still  to  be  found  in  many  Welsh  names, 
such  as  Carnarvon,  Caerleon,  and  so  on. 

Now,  although  Ludd  was  such  a  wise  king,  three 
plagues  fell  upon  the  island  of  Britain.  "The  first  was  a 
certain  race  that  came  and  was  called  Coranians,  and  so 
great  was  their  knowledge  that  there  was  no  discourse 
upon  the  face  of  the  island,  however  low  it  might  be 
spoken,  but  what,  if  the  wind  met  it,  it  was  known  to  them. 

"The  second  plague  was  a  shriek  which  came  on  every 
May-eve  over  every  hearth  in  the  island  of  Britain.  And 
this  went  through  peoples'  hearts  and  frightened  them  out 
of  their  senses. 

"The  third  plague  was,  however  much  of  provision 
and  food  might  be  prepared  in  the  king's  courts,  were 
there  even  so  much  as  a  year's  provision  of  meat  and 
drink,  none  of  it  could  ever  be  found,  except  what  was 
consumed  upon  the  first  night." 


30  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  story  goes  on  to  tell  how  good  King  Ludd  freed  the 
island  of  Britain  from  all  three  plagues  and  lived  in  peace 
all  the  days  of  his  life. 

In  five  of  the  stories  of  The  Mcihinogion,  King  Arthur 
appears.  And,  although  these  were  all  written  in  Welsh, 
it  has  been  thought  that  some  may  have  been  brought 
to  Wales  from  France. 

This  seems  strange,  but  it  comes  about  in  this  way. 
Part  of  France  is  called  Brittany,  as  you  know.  Now, 
long  long  ago,  before  the  Romans  came  to  Britain,  some 
of  the  people  who  lived  in  that  part  of  France  sailed  across 
the  sea  and  settled  in  Britain.  These  may  have  been  the 
ancient  Britons  whom  Caesar  fought  when  he  first  came  to 
our  shore. 

Later,  when  the  Romans  left  our  island  and  the  Picts 
and  Scots  oppressed  the  Britons,  many  of  them  fled  back 
over  the  sea  to  Brittany  or  Armorica,  as  it  used  to  be 
called.  Later  still,  when  the  Saxons  came,  the  Britons 
were  driven  by  degrees  into  the  mountains  of  Wales  and 
the  wilds  of  Cornwall,  while  others  fled  again  across  the 
sea  to  Brittany.  These  took  with  them  the  stories  which 
their  minstrels  told,  and  told  them  in  their  new  home. 
So  it  came  about  that  the  stories  which  were  told  in  Wales 
and  in  Cornwall  were  told  in  Brittany  also. 

And  how  were  these  stories  brought  back  again  to 
England  ? 

Another  part  of  France  is  called  Normandy.  The 
Normans  and  the  Bretons  were  very  different  peoples,  as 
difl'erent  as  the  Britons  and  the  English.  But  the  Normans 
conquered  part  of  Brittany,  and  a  close  relationship  grew 
up  between  the  two  peoples.  Conan,  Duke  of  Brittany, 
and  William,  Duke  of  Normandy,  were  related  to  each 
other,  and  in  a  manner  the  Bretons  owned  the  Duke  of 
Normandy  as  overlord. 

Now  you  know  that  in  1068  the  great  Duke  William 


WELSH  STORIES  AND  STORY-TELLERS     31 

came  sailing  over  the  sea  to  conquer  England,  and  with  him 
came  more  soldiers  from  Brittany  than  from  any  other 
land.  Perhaps  the  songs  of  the  minstrels  had  kept  alive 
in  the  hearts  of  the  Bretons  a  memory  of  their  island  home. 
Perhaps  that  made  them  glad  to  come  to  help  to  drive  out 
the  hated  Saxons.  At  anj^  rate  come  they  did,  and  brought 
with  them  their  minstrel  tales. 

And  soon  through  all  the  land  the  Norman  power 
spread.  And  whether  they  first  heard  them  in  Armorica 
or  in  wild  Wales,  the  Norman  minstrels  took  the  old  Welsh 
stories  and  made  them  their  own.  And  the  best  of  all  the 
tales  were  told  of  Arthur  and  his  knights. 

Doubtless  the  Normans  added  much  to  these  stories. 
For  although  they  were  not  good  at  inventing  anything, 
they  were  very  good  at  taking  what  others  had  invented 
and  making  it  better.  And  the  English,  too,  as  Norman 
power  grew,  clung  more  and  more  to  the  memory  of  the 
past.  They  forgot  the  difference  between  British  and 
English,  and  in  their  thoughts  Arthur  grew  to  be  a  national 
hero,  a  hero  who  had  loved  his  country,  and  who  was  not 
Norman. 

The  Normans,  then,  brought  tales  of  Arthur  with  them 
when  they  came  to  England.  They  heard  there  still  other 
tales  and  improved  them,  and  Arthur  thus  began  to  grow 
into  a  great  hero.  I  will  now  go  on  to  show  how  he  be- 
came still  greater. 

In  the  reign  of  Henry  i.  (the  third  Norman  king  who 
ruled  our  land)  there  lived  a  monk  called  Geoffrey  of 
Monmouth.  He  was  filled  with  the  love  of  his  land,  and 
he  made  up  his  mind  to  write  a  history  of  the  kings  of 
Britain. 

Geoffrey  wrote  his  book  in  Latin,  because  at  this  time 
it  was  the  language  which  most  people  could  understand. 
For  a  long  time  after  the  Normans  came  to  England,  they 
spoke  Norman  French.     The  English  still  spoke  English^ 


32  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

and  the  British  Welsh  or  Cymric.  But  every  one  almost 
who  could  read  at  all  could  read  Latin.  So  Geoffrey  chose 
to  write  in  Latin.  He  said  he  translated  all  that  he  wrote 
from  an  old  British  book  which  had  been  brought  from 
Brittany  and  given  to  him.  But  that  old  British  book 
has  never  been  seen  by  any  one,  and  it  is  generally  thought 
that  Geoffrey  took  old  Welsh  tales  and  fables  for  a  founda- 
tion, invented  a  good  deal  more,  and  so  made  his  history, 
and  that  the  "old  British  Book"  never  existed  at  all.  His 
book  may  not  be  very  good  history — indeed,  other  his- 
torians were  very  angry  and  said  that  Geoffrey  "lied 
saucily  and  shamelessly" — but  it  is  very  delightful  to 
read. 

Geoffrey's  chief  hero  is  Arthur,  and  we  may  say  that 
it  is  from  this  time  that  Arthur  became  a  great  hero  of 
Romance.  For  Geoffrey  told  his  stories  so  well  that  they 
soon  became  famous,  and  they  were  read  not  only  in 
England,  but  all  over  the  Continent.  Soon  story-tellers 
and  poets  in  other  lands  began  to  write  stories  about 
Arthur  too,  and  from  then  till  now  there  has  never  been  a 
time  when  they  have  not  been  read.  So  to  the  Welsh 
must  be  given  the  honor  of  having  sown  a  seed  from 
which  has  grown  the  wide-spreading  tree  we  call  the 
Arthurian  Legend. 

Geoffrey  begins  his  story  long  before  the  time  of  Arthur. 
He  begins  with  the  coming  of  Brutus,  the  ancient  hero 
who  conquered  Albion  and  changed  its  name  to  Britain, 
and  he  continues  to  about  two  hundred  years  after  the 
death  of  Arthur.  But  Arthur  is  his  real  hero,  so  he  tells 
the  story  in  very  few  words  after  his  death. 

Geoffrey  tells  of  many  battles  and  of  how  the  British 
fought,  not  only  with  the  Saxons,  but  among  themselves. 
And  at  last  he  says:  "As  barbarism  crept  in  they  were  no 
longer  called  Britons,  but  Welsh,  a  word  derived  either 
from  Gualo,  one  of  their  dukes,   or  from   Guales,   their 


WELSH  STORIES  AND  STORY-TELLERS     33 

Queen,  or  else  from  their  being  barbarians.  But  the 
Saxons  did  wiselier,  kept  peace  and  concord  amongst 
themselves,  tilling  their  fields  and  building  anew  their 
cities  and  castles.  .  .  .  But  the  Welsh  degenerating  from 
the  nobility  of  the  Britons,  never  after  recovered  the 
sovereignty  of  the  island,  but  on  the  contrary  quarreling 
at  one  time  amongst  themselves,  and  at  another  with  the 
Saxons,  never  ceased  to  have  bloodshed  on  hand  either  in 
public  or  private  feud." 

Geoffrey  then  says  that  he  hands  over  the  matter  of 
writing  about  the  later  Welsh  and  Saxon  kings  to  others, 
"Whom  I  bid  be  silent  as  to  the  kings  of  the  Britons,  seeing 
that  they  have  not  that  book  in  the  British  speech  which 
Walter,  Archdeacon  of  Oxford,  did  convey  hither  out  of 
Brittany,  the  which  I  have  in  this  wise  been  at  the  pains 
of  translating  into  the  Latin  speech." 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

The  Mabinogion,  translated  by  Lady  Charlotte  Guest.     Everyman's  Library. 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth's  Histories,  translated  by  Sebastian  Evans. 


CHAPTER  VII 

HOW  THE  STORY  OF  ARTHUR  WAS  WRITTEN  IN  ENGLISH 

Geoffrey  of  INIoxmouth  had  written  his  stories  so  well, 
that  although  he  warned  people  not  to  write  about  the 
British  kings,  they  paid  no  heed  to  his  warning.  Soon 
many  more  people  began  to  write  about  them,  and  especi- 
ally about  Arthur. 

In  1155  Geoffrey  died,  and  that  year  a  Frenchman, 
or  Jerseyman  rather,  named  Robert  Wace,  finished  a  long 
poem  which  he  called  Li  Romans  de  Brut  or  the  Romances 
of  Brutus.  This  poem  was  founded  upon  Geoffrey's 
history  and  tells  much  the  same  story,  to  which  Wace  has 
added  something  of  his  own.  Besides  Wace,  many  writers 
told  the  tale  in  French.  For  French,  you  must  remember, 
was  still  the  language  of  the  rulers  of  our  land.  It  is  to 
these  French  writers,  and  chiefly  to  Walter  Map,  perhaps, 
that  we  owe  something  new  which  was  now  added  to  the 
Arthur  story. 

Walter  JNIap,  like  so  many  of  the  writers  of  this  early 
time,  was  a  priest.  He  was  chaplain  to  Henry  ii.,  and 
was  still  alive  when  John,  the  bad  king,  sat  upon  the 
throne. 

The  first  writers  of  the  Arthur  story  had  made  a  great 
deal  of  manly  strength :  it  was  often  little  more  than  a  tale 
of  hard  knocks  given  and  taken.  Later  it  became  softened 
by  the  thought  of  courtesy,  with  the  idea  that  knights 
might  give  and  take  these  hard  knocks  for  the  sake  of  the 
lady  they  loved,  and  in  the  cause  of  all  women. 

34 


STORY  OF  ARTHUR  35 

Now  something  full  of  mystery  was  added  to  the  tale. 
This  was  the  Quest  of  the  Holy  Grail. 

The  Holy  Grail  was  said  to  be  a  dish  used  by  Christ 
at  the  Last  Supper.  It  was  also  said  to  have  been  used 
to  hold  the  sacred  blood  which,  when  Christ  hung  upon  the 
cross,  flowed  from  his  wounds.  The  Holy  Grail  came  into 
the  possession  of  Joseph  of  Arimathea,  and  by  him  was 
brought  to  Britain.  But  after  a  time  the  vessel  was  lost, 
and  the  story  of  it  even  forgotten,  or  only  remembered  in 
some  dim  way. 

And  this  is  the  story  which  the  poet-priest,  Walter 
Map,  used  to  give  new  life  and  new  glory  to  the  tales  of 
Arthur.  He  makes  the  knights  of  the  round  table  set 
forth  to  search  for  the  Grail.  They  ride  far  away  over 
hill  and  dale,  through  dim  forests  and  dark  waters.  They 
fight  with  men  and  fiends,  alone  and  in  tounaments. 
They  help  fair  ladies  in  distress,  they  are  tempted  to  sin, 
they  struggle  and  repent,  for  only  the  pure  in  heart  may 
find  the  holy  vessel. 

It  is  a  wonderful  and  beautiful  story,  and  these  old 
story-tellers  meant  it  to  be  something  more  than  a  fairy 
tale.  They  saw  around  them  many  wicked  things.  They 
saw  men  fighting  for  the  mere  love  of  fighting.  They  saw 
men  following  pleasure  for  the  mere  love  of  pleasure. 
They  saw  men  who  were  strong  oppress  the  weak  and 
grind  down  the  poor,  and  so  they  told  the  story  of  the 
Quest  of  the  Holy  Grail  to  try  to  make  them  a  little 
better. 

With  every  new  writer  the  story  of  Arthur  grew.  It 
seemed  to  draw  all  the  beauty  and  wonder  of  the  time  to 
itself,  and  many  stories  which  at  first  had  been  told  apart 
from  it  came  to  be  joined  to  it.  We  have  seen  how  it  has 
been  told  in  Welsh,  in  Latin,  and  in  French,  and,  last  of  all, 
we  have  it  in  English. 

The  first  great  English  writer  of  the  stories  of  Arthur 


36  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

was  named  Layamon.  He,  too,  was  a  priest,  and,  like 
Wace,  he  wrote  in  verse. 

Like  Wace,  Layamon  called  his  book  the  Brut,  because 
it  is  the  story  of  the  Britons,  who  took  their  name  from 
Brutus,  and  of  Ai'thur  the  great  British  hero.  This  book 
is  known,  therefore,  as  Layamon's  Brut.  Layamon  took 
Wace's  book  for  a  foundation,  but  he  added  a  great  deal 
to  it,  and  there  are  many  stories  in  Layamon  not  to  be 
found  in  Wace.  It  is  probable  that  Layamon  did  not 
make  up  these  stories,  but  that  many  of  them  are  old  tales 
he  heard  from  the  people  among  whom  he  lived. 

Layamon  finished  his  book  towards  the  end  of  the 
twelfth  century  or  the  beginning  of  the  thirteenth.  Per- 
haps he  sat  quietly  writing  it  in  his  cell  when  the  angry 
barons  were  forcing  King  John  to  sign  the  JNIagna  Charta. 
At  least  he  wrote  it  when  all  England  was  stirring  to  new 
life  again.  The  fact  that  he  wrote  in  English  shows  that, 
for  Layamon's  Brut  is  the  first  book  written  in  English 
after  the  Conquest.  This  book  proves  how  little  hold  the 
French  language  had  upon  the  English  people,  for  although 
our  land  had  been  ruled  by  Frenchmen  for  a  hundred  and 
fifty  years,  there  are  very  few  words  in  Layamon  that  are 
French  or  that  are  even  made  from  French. 

But  although  Layamon  wrote  his  book  in  English,  it 
was  not  the  English  that  we  speak  to-day.  It  was  what 
is  called  Early  English  or  even  sometimes  Semi-Saxon. 
If  you  opened  a  book  of  Layamon's  Brut  you  would,  I 
fear,  not  be  able  to  read  it. 

We  know  very  little  of  Layamon;  all  that  we  do  know 
he  tells  us  himself  in  the  beginning  of  his  poem.  "A  priest 
was  in  the  land,"  he  says: 

"Layamon  was  he  called. 
He  was  Leouenathe's  son,     the  Lord  to  him  be  gracious. 
He  lived  at  Ernleye     at  a  noble  church 
Upon  Severn's  bank.     Good  there  to  him  it  seemed 


STORY  OF  ARTHUR  37 

Fast  by  Radestone,     where  he  books  read. 
It  came  to  him  in  mind,     and  in  his  first  thoughts, 
That  he  would  of  England     the  noble  deeds  tell. 
What  they  were  named     and  whence  they  came, 
The  English  land     who  first  possessed 
After  the  flood     which  from  the  Lord  came. 

Layamon  began  to  journey,     far  he  went  over  the  land 
And  won  the  noble  books,     which  he  for  pattern  took. 
He  told  the  English  book     that  Saint  Beda  made. 
Another  he  took  in  Latin     which  Saint  Albin  made. 
And  the  fair  Austin     who  baptism  brought  hither. 
Book  the  third  he  took     laid  it  in  the  midst 
That  the  French  clerk  made.     Wace  he  was  called. 
He  well  could  write. 

Layamon  laid  these  books  down     and  the  leaves  turned. 
He  them  lovingly  beheld,     the  Lord  to  him  be  merciful ! 
Pen  he  took  in  fingers     and  wrote  upon  a  book  skin, 
And  the  true  words     set  together, 
And  the  three  books     pressed  to  one." 

That,  in  words  such  as  we  use  now,  is  how  Layamon 
hegins  his  poem.  But  this  is  how  the  words  looked  as 
Layamon  wrote  them: — 

"An  preost  wes  on  leoden:     lazamon  wes  ihoten. 
he  wes  Leouenades  sone:     lioe  him  beo  drihte." 

You  can  see  that  it  would  not  be  very  easy  to  read 
that  kind  of  English.  Nor  does  it  seem  very  like  poetry 
in  either  the  old  words  or  the  modern.  But  you  must 
remember  that  old  English  poetry  was  not  like  ours.  It 
did  not  have  rhyming  words  at  the  end  of  the  lines. 

Anglo-Saxon  poetry  depended  for  its  pleasantness  to 
the  ear,  not  on  rhyme  as  does  ours,  but  on  accent  and 
alliteration.  Alliteration  means  the  repeating  of  a  letter. 
Accent  means  that  you  rest  longer  on  some  syllables,  and 
say  them  louder  than  others.  For  instance,  if  you  take 
the  line  "the  way  was  long,  the  wind  was  cold,"  way,  long. 


38  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

wind,  and  cold  are  accented.  So  there  are  four  accents 
in  that  line. 

Now,  in  Anglo-Saxon  poetry  the  lines  were  divided 
into  two  half-lines.  And  in  each  half  there  had  to  be  two 
or  more  accented  syllables.  But  there  might  also  be  as 
many  unaccented  syllables  as  the  poet  liked.  So  in  this 
way  the  lines  were  often  very  unequal,  some  being  quite 
short  and  others  long.  Three  of  the  accented  syllables, 
generally  tv/o  in  the  first  half  and  one  in  the  second  half 
of  the  line,  were  alliterative.  That  is,  they  began  with 
the  same  letter.  In  translating,  of  course,  the  alliteration 
is  very  often  lost.  But  sometimes  the  Semi-Saxon  words 
and  the  English  words  are  very  like  each  other,  and  the 
alliteration  can  be  kept.  So  that  even  in  translation  we 
can  get  a  little  idea  of  what  the  poetry  sounded  like.  For 
instance,  the  line  "wat  heo  ihoten  weoren:  and  wonene  heo 
comen,"  the  alliteration  is  on  w,  and  may  be  translated, 
"tfhat  they  called  were,  and  whence  they  came,"  still  keep- 
ing the  alliteration. 

Upon  these  rules  of  accent  and  alliteration  the  strict 
form  of  Anglo-Saxon  verse  was  based.  But  when  the 
Normans  came  they  brought  a  new  form  of  poetry,  and 
gradually  rhymes  began  to  take  the  place  of  alliteration. 
Layamon  wrote  his  Brut  more  than  a  hundred  j^ears  after 
the  coming  of  the  Normans,  and  although  his  poem  is  in 
the  main  alHterative,  sometimes  he  has  rhyming  lines 
such  as,  "mochel  dal  heo  iwesten:  mid  barmen  >en' 
mesten,"  that  is: — 

"Great  part  they  laid  waste: 
With  harm  the  most." 

Sometimes  even  in  translation  the  rhyme  may  be  kept, 
as: — 

"And  faer  forli  nu  to  nlht: 
In  to  Norewaieze  forh  riht." 


STORY  OF  ARTHUR  39 

which  can  be  translated: — 

"And  fare  forth  now  to-night 
Into  Norway  forth  right." 

At  times,  too,  Layamon  has  neither  rhyme  nor  allitera- 
tion in  his  lines,  sometimes  he  has  both,  so  that  his  poem 
is  a  hnk  between  the  old  poetry  and  the  new. 

I  hope  that  you  are  not  tired  with  this  long  explanation, 
for  I  think  if  you  take  the  trouble  to  understand  it,  it  may 
make  the  rest  of  this  chapter  more  interesting.  Now  I 
will  tell  you  a  little  more  of  the  poem  itself. 

Layamon  tells  many  wonderful  stories  of  Arthur,  from 
the  time  be  was  born  to  his  last  great  battle  in  which  he 
was  killed,  fighting  against  the  rebel  Modred. 

This  is  how  Layamon  tells  the  story  of  Arthur's  death, 
or  rather  of  his  "passing": 

"Arthur  went  to  Cornwall     with  a  great  army. 
Modred  heard  that     and  he  against  him  came 
With  unnumbered  folk.     There  were  many  of  them  fated. 
Upon  the  Tambre     they  came  together, 

The  place  was  called  Camelford,     evermore  has  that  name  lasted. 
And  at  Camelford  were  gathered       sixty  thousand 
And  more  thousands  thereto.      Modred  was  their  chief. 
Then  hitherward  gan  ride     Arthur  the  mighty 
With  numberless  folk     fated  though  they  were. 
Upon  the  Tambre     they  came  together. 
Drew  their  long  swords,     smote  on  the  helmets. 
So  that  fire  sprang  forth.     Spears  were  splintered. 
Shields  gan  shatter,     shafts  to  break. 
They  fought  all  together     folk  unnumbered. 
Tambre  was  in  flood     with  unmeasured  blood. 
No  man  in  the  fight  miglit     any  warrior  know. 
Nor  who  did  worse  nor  who  did  better     so  was  the  conflict  mingled, 
For  each  slew  downright     were  he  swain  were  he  knight. 
There  was  Modred  slain     and  robbed  of  his  life  day. 

In  the  fight 
There  were  slain       all  the  brave 
Arthur's  warriors     noble. 
And  the  Britons  all     of  Arthur's  board. 


40  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  all  his  lieges     of  many  a  kingdom. 

And  Arthur  sore  wounded     with  war  spear  broad. 

Fifteen  he  had     fearful  wounds. 

One  might  in  the  least     two  gloves  thrust. 

Then  was  there  no  more     in  the  fight  on  life 

Of  two  hundred  thousand  men     that  there  lay  hewed  in  pieces 

But  Arthur  the  king  alone,     and  of  his  knights  twain. 

But  Arthur  was  sore  wounded     wonderously  much. 

Then  to  him  came  a  knave     who  was  of  his  kindred. 

He  was  Cador's  son     the  earl  of  Cornwall. 

Constantine  hight  the  knave.     He  was  to  the  king  dear. 

Arthur  him  looked  on     where  he  lay  on  the  field. 

And  these  words  said     with  sorrowful  heart. 

Constantine  thou  art  welcome     thou  wert  Cador's  son, 

I  give  thee  here     my  kingdom. 

Guard  thou  my  Britons     so  long  as  thou  livest. 

And  hold  them  all  the  laws     that  have  in  my  days  stood. 

And  all  the  good  laws     that  in  Uther's  days  stood. 

And  I  will  fare  to  Avelon     to  the  fairest  of  all  maidens 

To  Argente  their  Queen,     an  elf  very  fair. 

And  she  shall  my  wounds       make  all  sound 

All  whole  me  make     with  healing  draughts. 

And  afterwards  I  will  come  again     to  my  kingdom 

And  dwell  with  the  Britons     with  mickle  joy. 

Even  with  the  words       that  came  upon  the  sea 

A  short  boat  sailing,     moving  amid  the  waves 

And  two  women  were  therein     wounderously  clad. 

And  they  took  Arthur  anon     and  bare  him  quickly 

And  softly  him  adown  laid     and  to  glide  forth  gan  they. 

Then  was  it  come     what  Merlin  said  whilom 

That  unmeasured  sorrow  should  be     at  Arthur's  forth  faring. 

Britons  believe  yet     that  he  is  still  in  life 

And  dwelleth  in  Avelon     with  the  fairest  of  all  elves. 

And  every  Briton  looketh  still     when  Arthur  shall  return. 

Was  never  the  man  born     nor  never  the  lady  chosen 

Who  knowetb  of  the  sooth     of  Arthur  to  say  more. 

But  erstwhile  there  was  a  wizard     Merlin  called. 

He  boded  with  words     the  which  were  sooth 

That  an  Arthur  should  yet     come  the  English  to  help." 

You  see  by  this  last  line  that  Layamon  has  forgotten 
the    difference    between    Briton    and    English.      He    has 


STORY  OF  ARTHUR  41 

forgotten  that  in  his  lifetime  Arthur  fought  against  the 
English.  To  him  Arthur  has  become  an  English  hero 
And  perhaps  he  wrote  these  last  words  with  the  hope  in 
his  heart  that  some  day  some  one  would  arise  who  would 
deliver  his  dear  land  from  the  rule  of  the  stranger  Normans. 
This,  we  know,  happened.  Not,  indeed,  by  the  might 
of  one  man,  but  by  the  might  of  the  English  spirit,  the 
strong  spirit  which  had  never  died,  and  which  Layamon 
himself  showed  was  still  alive  when  he  wrote  his  book  in 
English. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  READING  TIME 

We  are  now  going  on  two  hundred  years  to  speak  of 
another  book  about  Arthur.  This  is  Morte  d' Arthur,  by 
Sir   Thomas  INIalory. 

Up  to  this  time  all  books  had  to  be  written  by  hand. 
But  in  the  fifteenth  century  printing  was  discovered.  This 
was  one  of  the  greatest  things  which  ever  happened  for 
literature,  for  books  then  became  much  more  plentiful  and 
were  not  nearly  so  dear  as  they  had  been,  and  so  many 
more  people  could  afford  to  buy  them.  And  thus  learning 
spread. 

It  is  not  quite  known  who  first  discovered  the  art  of 
printing,  but  William  Caxton  was  the  first  man  who  set 
up  a  printing-press  in  England.  He  was  an  English  wool 
merchant  who  had  gone  to  live  in  Bruges,  but  he  was 
very  fond  of  books,  and  after  a  time  he  gave  up  his  wool 
business,  came  back  to  England,  and  began  to  write  and 
print  books.  One  of  the  first  books  he  printed  was 
Malory's  Morte  d' Arthur. 

In  the  preface  Caxton  tells  us  how,  after  he  had  printed 
some  other  books,  many  gentlemen  came  to  him  to  ask 
him  why  he  did  not  print  a  history  of  King  Arthur,  "which 
ought  most  to  be  remembered  among  us  Englishmen  afore 
all  the  Christian  kings;  to  whom  I  answered  that  divers 
men  hold  opinion  that  there  was  no  such  Arthur,  and  all 
such  books  as  be  made  of  him  be  but  fained  matters  and 
fables." 

42 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  READING  TIME     43 

But  the  gentlemen  persuaded  Caxton  until  at  last  he 
undertook  to  "imprint  a  book  of  the  noble  histories  of  the 
said  King  Arthur  and  of  certaine  of  his  knights,  after  a 
copy  unto  me  delivered,  which  copy  Sir  Thomas  IMalory 
tooke  out  of  certaine  bookes  in  the  Frenche,  and  reduced 
it  into  English." 

It  is  a  book,  Caxton  says,  "wherein  ye  shall  find  many 
joyous  and  pleasant  histories,  and  noble  and  renowned 
acts.  .  .  .  Doe  after  the  good  and  leave  the  ill,  and  it 
shall  bring  you  unto  good  fame  and  renowne.  And  for  to 
pass  the  time  this  booke  shall  be  pleasant  to  read  in." 

In  1485,  when  Morte  d' Arthur  was  first  printed,  people 
indeed  found  it  a  book  "pleasant  to  read  in,"  and  we  find 
it  so  still.  It  is  written  in  English  not  unlike  the  English 
of  to-day,  and  although  it  has  a  quaint,  old-world  sound, 
we  can  readily  understand  it. 

Morte  d'^lrthur  really  means  the  death  of  Arthur,  but 
the  book  tells  not  only  of  his  death,  but  of  his  birth  and 
life,  and  of  the  wonderful  deeds  of  many  of  his  knights. 
This  is  how  INIalory  tells  of  the  manner  in  which  Arthur 
came  to  be  king. 

But  first  let  me  tell  you  that  Uther  Pendragon,  the 
King,  had  died,  and  although  Arthur  was  his  son  and 
should  succeed  to  him,  men  knew  it  not.  For  after  Arthur 
was  born  he  was  given  to  the  wizard  JNIerlin,  who  took  the 
little  baby  to  Sir  Ector,  a  gallant  knight,  and  charged  him 
to  care  for  him.  And  Sir  Ector,  knowing  nothing  of  the 
child,  brought  him  up  as  his  own  son. 

Thus,  after  the  death  of  the  King,  "the  realm  stood  in 
great  jeopardy  a  long  while,  for  every  lord  that  was  mighty 
of  men  made  him  strong,  and  many  weened  to  have  been 
King. 

"Then  INIerlin  went  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  and 
counselled  him  for  to  send  for  all  the  lords  of  the  realm, 
and  all  the  gentlemen  of  arms,  that  they  should  come  to 


U  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

London  afore  Christmas  upon  pain  of  cursing,  and  for  this 
cause,  that  as  Jesus  was  born  on  that  night,  that  he  would 
of  his  great  mercy  show  some  miracle,  as  he  was  come  to  be 
king  of  all  mankind,  for  to  show  some  miracle  who  should 
be  right  wise  king  of  this  realm.  So  the  Archbishop  by 
the  advice  of  Merlin,  sent  for  all  the  lords  and  gentlemen 
of  arms  that  they  should  come  by  Christmas  even  unto 
London.  ...  So  in  the  greatest  church  of  London, 
whether  it  were  Pauls  or  not  the  French  book  maketh 
no  mention,  all  the  estates  were  long  or  ^  day  in  the  church 
for  to  pray.  And  when  matins  and  the  first  mass  were 
done,  there  was  seen  in  the  churchyard,  against  the  high 
altar,  a  great  stone  foursquare,  like  unto  a  marble  stone, 
and  in  the  midst  thereof  was  like  an  anvil  of  steel  a  foot  on 
high,  and  therein  stuck  a  fair  sword  naked  by  the  point, 
and  letters  there  were  written  in  gold  about  the  sword  that 
said  thus: — "Whoso  pulleth  out  this  sword  of  the  stone 
and  anvil  is  rightwise  king  born  of  all  England." 

"Then  the  people  marvelled  and  told  it  to  the  Arch- 
bishop. ...  So  when  all  masses  were  done,  all  the  lords 
went  to  behold  the  stone  and  the  sword.  And  when  they 
saw  the  scripture,  some  essayed;  such  as  would  have  been 
king.    But  none  might  stir  the  sword  nor  move  it. 

"  'He  is  not  here,'  said  the  Archbishop,  'that  shall 
achieve  the  sword,  but  doubt  not  God  will  make  him 
known.  But  this  is  my  counsel,'  said  the  Archbishop, 
'that  we  let  purvey  ten  knights,  men  of  good  fame,  and 
they  to  keep  the  sword.' 

"So  it  was  ordained,  and  then  there  was  made  a  cry, 
that  every  man  should  essay  that  would,  for  to  win  the 
sword.  .  .  . 

"Now  upon  New  Year's  Day,  when  the  service  was  done, 
the  barons  rode  unto  the  field,  some  to  joust,  and  some  to 
tourney,  and  so  it  happened  that  Sir  Ector  rode  unto  the 

^  Before 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  READING  TIME     45 

jousts,  and  with  him  rode  Sir  Kay  his  son,  and  young 
Arthur  that  was  his  nourished  brother.  So  as  they  rode 
to  the  jousts-ward,  Sir  Kay  had  lost  his  sword,  for  he  had 
left  it  at  his  father's  lodging,  and  so  he  prayed  young 
Arthur  for  to  ride  for  his  sword. 

"  'I  will  well,'  said  Ai-thur,  and  rode  fast  after  the 
sword,  and  when  he  came  home,  the  lady  and  all  were  out 
to  see  the  jousting.  Then  was  Arthur  wroth  and  said  to 
himself,  "I  will  ride  to  the  churchyard,  and  take  the  sword 
with  me  that  sticketh  in  the  stone,  for  my  brother  Sir  Kay 
shall  not  be  without  a  sword  this  day."  So  when  he  came 
to  the  churchyard  Sir  Arthur  alit  and  tied  his  horse  to  the 
stile,  and  so  he  went  to  the  tent  and  found  no  knights  there, 
for  they  were  at  the  jousting,  and  so  he  handled  the  sword 
by  the  handles,  and  lightly  and  fiercely  pulled  it  out  of  the 
stone,  and  took  his  horse  and  rode  his  way  until  he  came 
to  his  brother  Sir  Kay,  and  delivered  him  the  sword. 

"And  as  soon  as  Sir  Kay  saw  the  sword  he  wist  well 
it  was  the  sword  of  the  stone,  and  he  rode  to  his  father 
Sir  Ector  and  said:  'Sir,  lo  here  is  the  sword  of  the  stone, 
wherefore  I  must  be  king  of  this  land.' 

"When  Sir  Ector  beheld  the  sword  he  returned  again 
and  came  to  the  church,  and  there  they  alit  all  three,  and 
went  into  the  church.  And  anon  he  made  Sir  Kay  to 
swear  upon  a  book  how  he  came  to  that  sword. 

"'Sir,'  said  Sir  Kay,  'by  my  brother  Arthur,  for  he 
brought  it  to  me.' 

"  'How  got  ye  this  sword?'  said  Sir  Ector  to  Arthur. 

"  'Sir,  I  will  tell  you.  When  I  came  home  for  my 
brother's  sword,  I  found  no  body  at  home  to  deliver  me 
his  sword,  and  so  I  thought  my  brother  Sir  Kay  should  not 
go  swordless,  and  so  I  came  hither  eagerly  and  pulled  it 
out  of  the  stone  without  any  pain.' 

"  *Found  ye  any  knights  about  the  sword  ?'  said  Sir 
Ector. 


46  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"  'Nay,'  said  Arthur. 

"  'Now,'  said  Sir  Ector  to  Arthur,  'I  understand  ye 
must  be  king  of  this  land.' 

"  'Wherefore  I,'  said  Arthur,  'and  for  what  cause?' 

"  'Sir,'  said  Ector,  'for  God  will  have  it  so,  for  there 
should  never  man  have  drawn  out  this  sword,  but  he  that 
should  be  rightwise  king  of  this  land.  Now  let  me  see  if 
ye  can  put  the  sword  there  as  it  was  and  pull  it  out  again.' 

"  'That  is  no  mastery,'  said  Arthur.  And  so  he  put 
it  in  the  stone.  Therewithall  Sir  Ector  essayed  to  pull 
out  the  sword  and  failed. 

"  'Now  essay,'  said  Sir  Ector  unto  Sir  Kay.  And 
anon  he  pulled  at  the  sword  with  all  his  might,  but  it  would 
not  be. 

"  'Now  shall  ye  essay,"  said  Sir  Ector  unto  Arthur. 

"  'I  will  well,'  said  Arthur,  and  pulled  it  out  easily. 

"And  therewithall  Sir  Ector  knelt  down  to  the  earth, 
and  Sir  Kay." 

And  so  Arthur  was  acknowledged  king.  "And  so  anon 
was  the  coronation  made,"  Malory  goes  on  to  tell  us,  "and 
there  was  Arthur  sworn  unto  his  lords  and  to  the  commons 
for  to  be  a  true  king,  to  stand  with  true  justice  from  hence- 
forth the  days  of  his  life." 

For  the  rest  of  all  the  wonderful  stories  of  King  Arthur 
and  his  knights  you  must  go  to  Morte  d' Arthur  itself. 
For  the  language  is  so  simple  and  clear  that  it  is  a  book 
that  you  can  easily  read,  though  there  are  some  parts  that 
you  will  not  understand  or  like  and  which  you  need  not 
read  yet. 

But  of  all  the  books  of  which  we  have  spoken  this  is 
the  first  which  you  could  read  in  the  very  words  in  which 
it  was  written  down.  I  do  not  mean  that  you  could  read 
it  as  it  was  first  printed,  for  the  oldest  kind  of  printing 
was  not  unlike  the  writing  used  in  manuscripts,  and  so 
seems  hard  to  read  now.     Besides  which,  although  nearly 


BEGINNING  OF  THE  READING  TIME     47 

all  the  words  Malory  uses  are  words  we  still  use,  the  spelling 
is  a  little  different,  and  that  makes  it  more  difficult  to 
read. 

The  old  lettering  looked  like  this: — 

*'Miti)  tfjat  ^iv  ^rttur  turnetr  toitft  f)i£(  knigfyt^,  anb  s;mote 
beljinb  anb  before,  anb  eber  ^ir  ^rt^ur  toas;  in  tfje  foremost 
pxcsii  till  fjis;  fjorsie  toas;  £;lain  unber  f)im/' 

That  looks  difficult.  But  here  it  is  again  in  our  own 
lettering : — 

"With  that  Sir  Arthur  turned  with  his  knights,  and 
smote  behind  and  before,  and  ever  Sir  Arthur  was  in  the 
foremost  press  till  his  horse  was  slain  under  him." 

That  is  quite  easy  to  read,  and  there  is  not  a  word  in 
it  that  you  cannot  understand.  For  since  printing  came 
our  language  has  changed  very  much  less  than  it  did  before. 
And  when  printing  came,  the  listening  time  of  the  world 
was  done  and  the  reading  time  had  begun.  As  books 
increased,  less  and  less  did  people  gather  to  hear  others 
read  aloud  or  tell  tales,  and  more  and  more  people  learned 
to  read  for  themselves,  until  now  there  is  hardly  a  boy  or 
girl  in  all  the  land  who  cannot  read  a  little. 

It  is  perhaps  because  Morte  d' Arthur  is  easily  read 
that  it  has  become  a  storehouse,  a  treasure-book,  to  which 
other  writers  have  gone,  and  from  which  they  have  taken 
stories  and  woven  them  afresh  and  given  them  new  life. 
Since  Caxton's  time  Morte  d'Artliur  has  been  printed 
many  times,  and  it  is  through  it  perhaps,  more  than 
through  the  earlier  books,  that  the  stories  of  Arthur  still 
live  for  us.  Yet  it  is  not  perfect — it  has  indeed  been 
called  "a  most  pleasant  jumble."  ^  Malory  made  up  none 
of  the  stories;  as  he  himself  tells  us,  he  took  them  from 
French  books,  and  in  some  of  these  French  books  the 
stories  are  told  much  better.     But  what  we  have  to  re- 

*J.   Furnivell. 


48  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

member  and  thank  Malory  for  is  that  he  kept  alive  the 
stories  of  Arthur.  He  did  this  more  than  any  other 
writer  in  that  he  wrote  in  English  such  as  all  English- 
speaking  people  must  love  to  read. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Stories  of  King  Arthur's  Knights,  by  Mary  Macgregor.     Stories  from  Morte 
d' Arthur,  by  C.  L.  Thomson.     Morte  d' Arthur,  Globe  Edition. 


CHAPTER  IX 

"THE  PASSING  OF  ARTHUR" 

Four  hundred  years  after  Malory  wrote  his  book,  another 
English  writer  told  the  tales  of  Arthur  anew.  This  was 
the  poet  Alfred,  Lord  Tennyson.    He  told  them  in  poetry. 

Tennyson  calls  his  poems  the  Idylls  of  the  King.  Idyll 
means  a  short  poem  about  some  simple  and  beautiful 
subject.  The  king  that  Tennyson  sings  of  is  the  great 
King  Arthur. 

Tennyson  wrote  many  other  poems  besides  the  Idylls 
of  the  King.  Of  these  we  will  speak  later,  just  now  it  is 
only  the  Ai'thur  story  that  we  are  following. 

Tennyson  takes  his  stories,  some  from  The  Mahinogion, 
some  from  Malory,  some  from  other  books.  He  has  told 
them  in  very  beautiful  English,  and  it  is  the  English  such 
as  we  speak  to-day.  He  has  smoothed  away  much  that 
strikes  us  as  rough  and  coarse  in  the  old  stories,  and  his 
poems  are  as  different  from  the  old  stories  as  a  polished 
diamond  is  different  from  the  stone  newly  brought  out  of 
the  mine.  Yet  we  miss  something  of  strength  and  vigor. 
The  Arthur  of  the  Idylls  is  not  the  Arthur  of  The  Mahi- 
nogion nor  of  Malory.  Indeed,  Tennyson  makes  him 
"almost  too  good  to  be  true":  he  is  "Ideal  manhood  closed 
in  real  man,  rather  than  that  gray  king"  of  old. 

And  now  I  will  give  you  part  of  the  last  of  the  Arthur 
poems,  The  Passing  of  Arthur,  so  that  you  may  read  it 
along  with   Layamon's   account   of  the  hero's   death,   and 

49 


50  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

see  for  yourselves  the  difference  between  the  two.  The 
Passing  of  Arthur  is  written  in  blank  verse,  that  is  verse 
which  does  not  rhyme,  and  which  depends  like  the  old 
English  verse  on  the  accent.     Yet  they  are  not  like. 

"So  all  day  long  the  noise  of  battle  roll'd 
Among  the  mountains  by  the  winter  sea; 
Until  King  Arthur's  Table,  man  by  man. 
Had  fall'n  in  Lyonnesse  about  their  lord, 
King  Arthur.     Then,  because  his  wound  was  deep. 
The  bold  Sir  Bedivere  uplifted  him. 
And  bore  him  to  a  chapel  nigh  the  field, 
A  broken  chancel  by  a  broken  cross, 
That  stood  in  a  dark  strait  of  barren  land: 
On  one  side  lay  the  Ocean,  and  on  one 
Lay  a  great  water,  and  the  moon  was  full." 

Then  the  King  bids  Sir  Bedivere  take  his  sword  Excalibur, 

"And  fling  him  far  into  the  middle  mere: 
Watch  what  thou  seest,  and  lightly  bring  me  word. 

Sir  Bedivere  takes  the  sword,  and, 

"From  the  ruin'd  shrine  he  stept 
And  in  the  moon  athwart  the  place  of  tombs, 
WTiere  lay  the  mighty  bones  of  ancient  men. 
Old  knights,  and  over  them  the  sea-wind  sang 
Shrill,  chill,  with  flakes  of  foam.   He,  stepping  down 
By  zigzag  paths,  and  juts  of  pointed  rock. 
Came  on  the  shining  levels  of  the  lake." 

But  when  Sir  Bedivere  drew  Excalibur  and  saw  the 
jewels  of  the  hilt  shine  in  the  wintry  moonlight,  he  could 
not  find  it  in  his  heart  to  cast  anything  so  beautiful  and 
precious  from  him.  So,  hiding  it  among  the  reeds  by  the 
water's  edge,  he  returned  to  his  master. 

"Then  spake  King  Arthur  to  Sir  Bedivere: 
'Hast  thou  perform'd  my  mission  which  I  gave.'' 
What  is  it  thou  hast  seen?  or  what  hast  heard?' 


"THE  PASSING  OF  ARTHUR"  51 

And  answer  made  the  bold  Sir  Bedivere: 
'I  heard  the  ripple  washing  in  the  reeds, 
And  the  wild  water  lapping  on  the  crag.'  " 

But  King  Arthur  well  knew  that  Sir  Bedivere  had  not 
obeyed  him.  "This  is  a  shameful  thing  for  men  to  lie," 
he  said,  and  once  more  sent  the  knight  to  do  his  bidding. 

Again  Sir  Bedivere  went,  but  again  he  could  not  make 
up  his  mind  to  cast  away  the  sword.  "The  King  is  sick, 
and  knows  not  what  he  does,"  he  said  to  himself.  So  a 
second  time  he  hid  the  sword  and  returned. 

"Then  spoke  King  Arthur,  breathing  heavily: 
'What  is  it  thou  hast  seen?  or  what  hast  heard.''* 

And  answer  made  the  bold  Sir  Bedivere: 
'I  heard  the  water  lapping  on  the  crag, 
And  the  long  ripple  washing  in  the  reeds.* 

To  whom  replied  King  Arthur,  much  in  wrath: 
'Ah,  miserable  and  unkind,  untrue, 
Unknightly,  traitor-hearted  !     Woe  is  me ! 
Authority  forgets  a  dying  king.'  " 

Then,  sorrowful  and  abashed  before  the  anger  of  the 
dying  King,  Sir  Bedivere  turned,  and  running  quickly  lest 
his  courage  should  fail  him,  he  reached  the  water's  edge 
and  flung  the  sword  far  into  the  lake. 

"But  ere  he  dipt  the  surface,  rose  an  arm 
Clothed  in  white  samite,  mystic,  wonderful. 
And  caught  him  by  the  hilt,  and  brandish'd  him 
Three  times,  and  drew  him  under  in  the  mere." 

Then  Sir  Bedivere,  in  wonder,  returned  to  the  King,  who, 
when  he  saw  him  come,  cried: — 

"  'Now  see  I  by  thine  eyes  that  this  is  done. 

Speak  out:  what  is  it  thou  hast  heard,  or  seen.'''" 

So  Sir  Bedivere  told  the  King  how  truly  this  time  he 
had  cast  away  the  sword,  and  how   an  arm  "clothed  in 


52  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

white  samite,  mystic,  wonderful,"  had  caught  it  and  drawn 
it  under  the  mere.  Then  at  the  King's  bidding  Sir  Bedivere 
raised  Arthur  and  bore  him  to  the  water's  edge. 

"Then  saw  they  how  there  hove  a  dusky  barge. 
Dark  as  a  funeral  scarf  from  stem  to  stern, 
Beneath  them ;  and  descending  they  were  ware 
That  all  the  decks  were  dense  with  stately  forms, 
Black-stoled,  black-hooded,  like  a  dream — by  these 
Three  Queens  with  crowns  of  gold :  and  from  them  rose 
A  cry  that  shiver'd  to  the  tingling  stars. 
And,  as  it  were  one  voice,  an  agony 
Of  lamentation,  like  a  wind  that  shrills 
All  night  in  a  waste  land,  where  no  one  comes. 
Or  hath  come,  since  the  making  of  the  world. 

Then,  murmur'd  Arthur,  'Place  me  in  the  barge.' 

So  to  the  barge  they  came.     There  those  three  Queens 

Put  forth  their  hands,  and  took  the  King,  and  wept." 

Then  slowly  from  the  shore  the  barge  moved.  And  Sir 
Bedivere,  as  he  saw  his  master  go,  was  filled  with  grief 
and  loneliness,  for  he  only  of  all  the  brave  King's  knights 
was  left.     And  so  he  cried  in  mourning: — 

"  'Ah ;  my  Lord  Arthur,  whither  shall  I  go  ? 
Where  shall  I  hide  my  forehead  and  my  eyes? 
For  now  I  see  the  true  old  times  are  dead. 

And  I,  the  last,  go  forth  companionless. 

And  the  days  darken  round  me,  and  the  years, 

Among  new  men,  strange  faces,  other  minds." 

Mournfully  from  the  barge  Arthur  answered  and 
bade  him  pray,  for  "JMore  things  are  wrought  by  prayer 
than  the  world  dreams  of,"  and  so  he  said  farewell, 

"and  the  barge  with  oar  and  sail 
Moved  from  the  brink,  like  some  full-breajted  swan." 

Long  stood  Sir  Bedivere  thinking  of  all  that  had  come 


^  THE  PASSING  OF  ARTHUR"  53 

and  gone,  watching  the  barge  as  it  glided  silently  away, 
and  listening  to  the  wailing  voices, 

"till  the  hull 
Look'd  one  black  dot  against  the  verge  of  dawn, 
And  on  the  mere  the  wailing  died  away." 

Sir   Bedivere   turned   then   and   climbed, 

"Ev'n  to  the  highest  he  could  climb,  and  saw. 
Straining  his  eyes  beneath  an  arch  of  hand, 
Or  thought  he  saw,  the  speck  that  bore  the  King, 
Down  that  long  water  opening  on  the  deep 
Somewhere  far  off,  pass  on  and  on,  and  go 
From  less  to  less  and  vanish  into  light. 
And  the  new  sun  rose  bringing  the  new  year." 

The  poem  moves  along  with  mournful  stately  measures, 
yet  it  closes,  like  Layamon's  farewell  to  Arthur,  on  a  note 
of  hope.  Layamon  recalls  Merlin's  words,  "the  which 
were  sooth,  that  an  Arthur  should  yet  come  the  English 
to  help."  The  hope  of  Tennyson  is  different,  not  that  the 
old  will  return,  but  that  the  new  will  take  its  place,  for  "the 
old  order  changeth  yielding  place  to  new,  and  God  fulfils 
himself  in  many  waj^s."  The  old  sorrows  vanish  "into 
light,"  and  the  new  sun  ever  rises  bringing  in  the  new  year. 

BOOK  TO  READ 

Idylls  of  the  King,  by  Alfred,  Lord  Tennyson,  price  2s.  6d.  (Macmillan), 


CHAPTER  X 

THE  ADVENTURES  OF  AN  OLD  ENGLISH  BOOK 

The  story  of  Arthur  has  led  us  a  long  way.  We  have 
almost  forgotten  that  it  began  with  the  old  Cymric 
stories,  the  stories  of  the  people  who  lived  in  Britain 
before  the  coming  of  the  Romans.  We  have  followed  it 
down  through  many  forms:  Welsh,  in  the  stories  of  The 
Mahinogion;  Latin,  in  the  stories  of  Geoffrey  of  Mon- 
mouth; French,  in  the  stories  of  Wace  and  Map;  Semi- 
Saxon,  in  the  stories  of  Layamon;  jMiddle  English,  in 
the  stories  of  Malory;  and  at  last  English  as  we  now  speak 
it,  in  the  stories  of  Tennyson.  Now  we  must  go  back  and 
see  why  it  is  that  our  Literature  is  English,  and  why  it  is 
that  we  speak  English,  and  not  Gaelic,  or  Cymric,  or  Latin, 
or  French.  And  then  from  its  beginnings  we  will  follow 
our  English  Literature  through  the  ages. 

Since  historical  times  the  land  we  now  call  England 
has  been  conquered  three  times,  for  we  need  hardly  count 
the  Danish  Invasion.  It  was  conquered  by  the  Romans, 
it  was  conquered  by  the  English,  and  it  was  conquered 
by  the  Normans.  It  was  only  England  that  felt  the  full 
weight  of  these  conquests.  Scotland,  Ireland,  and,  in  part, 
Wales  were  left  almost  untouched.  And  of  the  three  it 
was  only  the  English  conquest  that  had  lasting  effects. 

In  55  B.C.  the  Romans  landed  in  Britain,  and  for  nearly 
four  hundred  years  after  that  they  kept  coming  and  going. 
All  South  Britain  became  a  Roman  province,  and  the 
people  paid  tribute  or  taxes  to  the  Roman  Emperor.    But 

54 


ADVENTURES  OF  AN  OLD  ENGLISH  BOOK  55 

they  did  not  become  Romans.  They  still  kept  their  own 
language,  their  own  customs  and  religions. 

It  will  help  you  to  understand  the  state  of  Britain  in 
those  old  days  if  you  think  of  India  to-day.  India  forms 
part  of  the  British  Empire,  but  the  people  who  live  there 
are  not  British.  They  are  still  Indians  who  speak  their 
own  languages,  and  have  their  own  customs  and  rehgions. 
The  rulers  only  are  British. 

It  was  in  much  the  same  way  that  Britain  was  a 
Roman  province.  And  so  our  literature  was  never  Latin. 
There  was,  indeed,  a  time  when  nearly  all  our  books  were 
written  in  Latin.  But  that  was  later,  and  not  because 
Latin  was  the  language  of  the  people,  but  because  it  was 
the  language  of  the  learned  and  of  the  monks,  who  were 
the  chief  people  who  wrote  books. 

When,  then,  after  nearly  four  hundred  years  the 
Romans  went  away,  the  people  of  Britain  were  still  British. 
But  soon  another  people  came.  These  were  the  Anglo- 
Saxons,  the  English,  who  came  from  over  the  sea.  And 
little  by  little  they  took  possession  of  Britain.  They 
drove  the  old  dwellers  out  until  it  was  only  in  the  north, 
in  Wales  and  in  Cornwall,  that  they  were  to  be  found. 
Then  Britain  became  Angleland  or  England,  and  the 
language  was  no  longer  Celtic,  but  Enghsh.  And  although 
there  are  a  few  words  in  our  language  which  can  be  traced 
to  the  old  Celtic,  these  are  very  few.  It  is  thus  from 
Anglo-Saxon,  and  not  from  Gaelic  or  Cymric,  that  the 
language  we  speak  to-day  comes. 

Yet  our  Celtic  forefathers  have  given  something  to  our 
literature  which  perhaps  we  could  never  have  had  from 
English  alone.  The  Celtic  literature  is  full  of  wonder,  it 
is  full  of  a  tender  magic  and  makes  us  feel  the  fairy  charm 
of  nature,  although  it  has  not  the  strength,  the  down- 
rightness,  we  might  say,  of  the  English.  It  has  been  said 
that  every   poet  has   somewhere   in  him   a   Celtic   strain. 


56  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

That  is,  perhaps,  too  much  to  believe.  But  it  is,  perhaps, 
the  Celtic  love  of  beauty,  together  with  the  Saxon  love  of 
strength  and  right,  to  which  we  owe  much  of  our  great 
literature.  The  Celtic  languages  are  dying  out,  but  they 
have  left  us  something  which  will  last  so  long  as  our 
literature  lasts. 

And  now,  having  talked  in  the  beginning  of  this  book 
of  the  stories  which  we  owe  to  our  Celtic  forefathers,  let 
us  see  what  the  Saxons  brought  us  from  over  the  sea. 

Almost  the  oldest  Anglo-Saxon  book  that  we  have  is 
called  Beowulf.  Wise  men  tell  us  that,  like  the  tales  of 
Arthur,  like  the  tales  of  Ossian,  this  book  was  not  at  first 
the  work  of  one  man,  but  that  it  has  been  gradually  put 
together  out  of  many  minstrel  songs.  That  may  be  so, 
but  what  is  sure  is  that  these  tales  are  very  old,  and  that 
they  were  sung  and  told  for  many  years  in  the  old  homes 
of  the  English  across  the  sea  before  they  came  to  Britain 
and  named  it  Angleland. 

Yet,  as  with  the  old  Gaelic  and  Cjanric  tales,  we  have 
no  very  old  copy  of  this  tale.  But  unlike  these  old  tales, 
we  do  not  find  Beowulf  told  in  different  ways  in  different 
manuscripts.  There  is  only  one  copy  of  Beowulf,  and  that 
was  probably  written  in  the  tenth  or  eleventh  century, 
long  years  after  the  English  were  firmly  settled  in  the 
land. 

As  Beowulf  is  one  of  our  great  book  treasures,  you  may 
like  to  hear  something  of  its  story. 

Long  ago,  in  the  time  when  Queen  Elizabeth,  James  i., 
and  Charles  i.  sat  upon  the  throne,  there  lived  a  learned 
gentleman  called  Sir  Robert  Bruce  Cotton.  He  was  an 
antiquary.  That  is,  he  loved  old  things,  and  he  gathered 
together  old  books,  coins,  manuscripts  and  other  articles, 
which  are  of  interest  because  they  help  to  make  us  under- 
stand the  history  of  bygone  days. 

Sir   Robert    Cotton    loved    books    especially,    and    like 


ADVENTURES  OF  AN  OLD  ENGLISH  BOOK  57 

many  other  book  lovers,  he  was  greedy  of  them.  It  was 
said,  indeed,  that  he  often  found  it  hard  to  return  books 
which  had  been  lent  to  him,  and  that,  among  others,  he 
had  books  which  really  ought  to  have  belonged  to  the  King. 

Sir  Robert's  library  soon  became  famous,  and  many 
scholars  came  to  read  there,  for  Sir  Robert  was  very  kind 
in  allowing  other  people  to  use  his  books.  But  twice  his 
library  was  taken  from  him,  because  it  was  said  that  it 
contained  things  which  were  dangerous  for  people  to  know, 
and  that  he  allowed  the  enemies  of  the  King  to  use 
it.  That  was  in  the  days  of  Charles  i.,  and  those  were 
troublous  times. 

The  second  time  that  his  library  was  taken  from  him. 
Sir  Robert  died,  but  it  was  given  back  to  his  son,  and 
many  years  later  his  great-great-grandson  gave  it  to  the 
nation. 

In  1731  the  house  in  which  the  library  was  took  fire, 
and  more  than  a  hundred  books  were  burned,  some  being 
partly  and  some  quite  destroyed.  Among  those  that  were 
partly  destroyed  was  Beowulf.  But  no  one  cared  very 
much,  for  no  one  had  read  the  book  or  knew  anything 
about  it. 

Where  Sir  Robert  found  Beowulf,  or  what  he  thought 
about  it,  we  shall  never  know.  Very  likely  it  had  re- 
mained in  some  quiet  monastery  library  for  hundreds  of 
years  until  Henry  viii.  scattered  the  monks  and  their 
books.  Many  books  were  then  lost,  but  some  were  saved, 
and  after  many  adventures  found  safe  resting-places. 
Among  those  was  Beowulf. 

Some  years  after  the  fire  the  Cotton  Library,  as  it  is 
now  called,  was  removed  to  the  British  JNIuseum,  where  it 
now  remains.  And  there  a  Danish  gentleman  who  was 
looking  for  books  about  his  own  land  found  Beowulf, 
and  made  a  copy  of  it.  Its  adventures,  however,  were  not 
over.     Just  when  the   printed   copies   were   read}-   to   be 


58  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

published,  the  British  bombarded  Copenhagen.  The  house 
in  which  the  copies  were  was  set  on  fire  and  they  were 
all  burned.  The  Danish  gentleman,  however,  was  not 
daunted.  He  set  to  work  again,  and  at  last  Beowulf  was 
published. 

Even  after  it  was  published  in  Denmark,  no  English- 
man thought  of  making  a  translation  of  the  book,  and  it 
was  not  until  fifty  years  more  had  come  and  gone  that  an 
English  translation  appeared. 

When  the  Danish  gentleman  made  his  copy  of  Beowulf, 
he  found  the  edges  of  the  book  so  charred  by  fire  that  they 
broke  away  with  the  slightest  touch.  No  one  thought  of 
mending  the  leaves,  and  as  years  went  on  they  fell  to 
pieces  more  and  more.  But  at  last  some  one  woke  up  to 
the  fact  that  this  half-burned  book  was  a  great  treasure. 
Then  it  was  carefully  mended,  and  thus  kept  from  wasting 
more. 

So  now,  after  all  its  adventures,  having  been  found,  we 
shall  never  know  where,  by  a  gentleman  in  the  days  of 
Queen  Elizabeth,  having  lain  on  his  bookshelves  unknown 
and  unread  for  a  hundred  years  and  more,  having  been 
nearly  destroyed  by  fire,  having  been  still  further  de- 
stroyed by  neglect,  Beowulf  at  last  came  to  its  own,  and 
is  now  carefully  treasured  in  a  glass  case  in  the  British 
Museum,  where  any  one  who  cares  about  it  may  go  to 
look  at  it. 

And  although  it  is  perhaps  not  much  to  look  at,  it  is 
a  very  great  treasure.  For  it  is  not  only  the  oldest  epic 
poem  in  the  Anglo-Saxon  language,  it  is  history  too.  By 
that  I  do  not  mean  that  the  story  is  all  true,  but  that  by 
reading  it  carefully  we  can  find  out  much  about  the  daily 
lives  of  our  forefathers  in  their  homes  across  the  seas. 
And  besides  this,  some  of  the  people  mentioned  in  the 
poem  are  mentioned  in  history  too,  and  it  is  thought  that 
Beowulf,  the  hero  himself,  really  lived. 


ADVENTURES  OF  AN  OLD  ENGLISH  BOOK  59 

And  now,  having  spoken  about  the  book  and  its 
adventures,  let  us  in  the  next  chaper  speak  about  the 
story.  As  usual,  I  will  give  part  of  it  in  the  words  of  the 
original,  translated,  of  course,  into  modern  English.  You 
can  always  tell  what  is  from  the  original  by  the  quotation 
marks,  if  by  nothing  else. 


CHAPTER  XI 

THE  STORY  OF  BEOWULF 

Hrothgar,  King  of  the  Spear  Danes,  was  a  mighty  man 
in  war,  and  when  he  had  fought  and  conquered  much,  he 
bethought  him  that  he  would  build  a  great  and  splendid 
hall,  wherein  he  might  feast  and  be  glad  with  his  people. 

And  so  it  was  done.  And  when  the  hall  was  built,  there 
night  by  night  the  thanes  gathered  and  rejoiced  with  their 
King;  and  there,  when  the  feast  was  over,  they  lay  them 
down  to  sleep. 

Within  the  hall  all  was  gladness,  but  without  on  the 
lone  moorland  there  stalked  a  grim  monster,  named 
Grendel,  whose  dark  heart  was  filled  with  anger  and  hate. 
To  him  the  sound  of  song  and  laughter  was  deep  pain, 
and  he  was  fain  to  end  it. 

"He,  the  Grendel,  set  off  then  after  night  was  come 
to  seek  the  lofty  house,  to  see  how  the  Ring  Danes  had 
ordered  it  after  the  service  of  beer.  He  found  them  there- 
in, a  troup  of  nobles  sleeping  after  the  feast.  They  knew 
not  sorrow,  the  wretchedness  of  men,  they  knew  not 
aught  of  misfortune. 

"The  grim  and  greedy  one  was  soon  prepared,  savage 
and  fierce,  and  in  sleep  he  seized  upon  thirty  of  the 
thanes,  and  thence  he  again  departed  exulting  in  his  prey, 
to  go  home  with  the  carcases  of  the  slain,  to  reach  his  own 
dwelling. 

"Then  was  in  the  morning  twilight,  at  the  breaking 
of  day,  Grendel's  war-craft  revealed  to  men.     Then  was 

60 


THE  STORY  OF  BEOWULF  61 

lamentation  upraised  after  the  feast,  a  great  noise  in  the 
morning. 

"The  mighty  prince,  a  noble  of  old  goodness,  sat 
unblithe;  the  strong  in  armies  suffered,  the  thanes 
endured  sorrow,  after  they  beheld  the  track  of  the  hated 
one,  the  accursed  spirit." 

But  in  spite  of  all  their  grief  and  horror,  when  night 
came  the  thanes  again  lay  down  to  rest  in  the  great  hall. 
And  there  again  the  monster  returned  and  slew  yet  more 
thanes,  so  that  in  horror  all  forsook  the  hall,  and  for 
twelve  long  years  none  abode  in  it  after  the  setting  of 
the  sun. 

And  now  far  across  the  sea  a  brave  man  of  the  Goths, 
Beowulf  by  name,  heard  of  the  doings  of  Grendel,  and  he 
made  up  his  mind  to  come  to  aid  King  Hrothgar. 

"He  commanded  to  make  ready  for  him  a  good  ship; 
quoth  he,  he  would  seek  the  war-king  over  the  swan's 
path;  the  renowned  prince  since  he  had  need  of  men. 

"The  good  chieftain  had  chosen  warriors  of  the  Geatish 
people,  the  bravest  of  those  who  he  could  find.  With 
fifteen  men  he  sought  the  sea-wood.  A  warrior,  a  man 
crafty  in  lakes,  pointed  out  the  boundaries  of  the  land. 

"The  time  passed  on,  the  ship  was  on  the  waves,  the 
boat  beneath  a  mountain,  the  ready  warriors  stept  upon 
the  prow.  The  men  bore  into  the  bosom  of  the  bark 
bright  ornaments,  their  ready  warlike  appointments. 

"The  men  shoved  forth  the  bounden  wood,  the  men 
upon  the  journey  they  desired. 

"Then  likest  to  a  bird  the  foam-necked  ship,  propelled 
by  the  wind,  started  over  the  deep  waves  of  the  sea,  till 
that  about  one  hour  of  the  second  day,  the  wreathed 
prowed  ship  had  sailed  over,  so  that  the  traveller  saw  the 
land. 

"Then  quickly  the  people  of  the  Westerns  stepped 
upon  the  plain.     They  tied  the  sea-wood,  they  let  down 


62  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

their  shirts  of  mail,  their  war-weeds.  They  thanked  God 
because  that  the  waves  had  been  easy  to  them." 

And  now  these  new-come  warriors  were  led  to  King 
Hrothgar.  He  greeted  them  with  joj^,  and  after  feasting 
and  song  the  Danes  and  their  King  departed  and  left  the 
Goths  to  guard  the  hall.  Quietly  they  lay  down  to  rest, 
knowing  that  ere  morning  stern  battle  would  be  theirs. 

"Then  under  veils  of  mist  came  Grendel  from  the  moor; 
he  bare  God's  anger.  The  criminal  meant  to  entrap 
some  one  of  the  race  of  men  in  the  high  hall.  He  went 
under  the  welkin,  until  he  saw  most  clearly  the  wine  hall, 
the  treasure  house  of  men,  variegated  with  vessels.  That 
was  not  the  first  time  that  he  had  sought  Hrothgar's  home. 
Never  he,  in  all  his  life  before  or  since,  found  bolder  men 
keepers  of  the  hall. 

"Angry  of  mood  he  went,  from  his  eyes,  likest  to  fire, 
stood  out  a  hideous  light.  He  saw  within  the  house 
many  a  warrior  sleeping,  a  peaceful  band  together. 
Then  his  mood  laughed.  The  foul  wretch  meant  to  divide, 
ere  day  came,  the  life  of  each  from  his  body." 

Quickly  then  he  seized  a  warrior  and  as  quickly 
devoured  him.  But  as  he  stretched  forth  his  hand  to 
seize  another,  Beowulf  gripped  him  in  his  awful  grasp. 

Then  began  a  terrible  combat.  The  hall  echoed  with 
cries  and  sounds  of  clashing  steel.  The  Goths  awoke, 
joining  in  the  fight,  but  all  their  swords  were  of  no  avail 
against  the  ogre.  With  his  bare  hands  alone  Beowulf 
fought,  and  thought  to  kill  the  monster.  But  Grendel 
escaped,  though  wounded  to  death  indeed,  and  leaving 
his  hand,  arm,  and  shoulder  behind  in  Beowulf's  grip. 

When  morning  came  there  was  much  rejoicing. 
Hrothgar  made  a  great  feast,  at  which  he  gave  rich  gifts 
to  Beowulf  and  his  friends.  The  evening  passed  in  song 
and  laughter,  and  when  darkness  fell  the  Danes  lay  down 
to  rest  in  the  hall  as  of  old. 


THE  STORY  OF  BEOWULF  63 

But  the  evil  was  not  over.  Grendel  indeed  was  slain, 
but  his  mother,  an  ogre  almost  as  fierce  as  he,  was  ready 
to  avenge  him.  So  when  night  fell  she  hastened  to  the 
hall,  and  carried  off  Hrothgar's  best  loved  thane. 

"Then  was  there  a  cry  in  Heorot.  Then  was  the 
prudent  king,  the  hoary  warrior,  sad  of  mood,  when  he 
learned  that  his  princely  thane,  the  dearest  to  him,  no 
longer  lived.  Quickly  was  Beowulf  fetched  to  the  bower, 
the  man  happy  in  victory,  at  break  of  day." 

And  when  Beowulf  heard  the  mournful  tale  he  com- 
forted the  King  with  brave  and  kindly  words,  and  quickly 
he  set  forth  to  the  dreadful  mere,  the  dwelling  of  the 
water-witch,  Grendel's  mother.  And  here  he  plunged  in 
ready  to  fight. 

"Soon  did  she,  who  thirsting  for  gore,  grim  and  greedy, 
for  a  hundred  years  had  held  the  circuit  of  the  waves, 
discover  that  some  one  of  men,  some  strange  being,  was 
trying  from  above  the  land.  She  grappled  then  towards 
him,  she  seized  the  warrior  in  her  foul  claws." 

Then  beneath  the  waves  was  there  a  fierce  struggle, 
but  Beowulf  in  the  end  conquered.  The  water-witch 
was  slain,  and  rejoicing,  the  hero  returned  to  Hrothgar. 

Now  indeed  had  peace  come  to  the  Danes,  and  loaded 
with  thanks  and  rewards,  Beowulf  returned  homeward. 

Many  years  passed.  Beowulf  himself  became  king  in 
his  own  land,  and  for  fifty  years  he  ruled  well,  and  kept 
his  folk  in  peace.  Then  it  fell  that  a  fearful  Fire-Dragon 
wasted  all  the  land,  and  Beowulf,  mindful  of  his  deeds  of 
old,  set  forth  to  slay  him. 

Yet  ere  he  fought,  he  bade  farewell  to  all  his  thanes, 
for  he  knew  well  that  this  should  be  his  last  fight. 

"Then  greeted  he  every  one  of  the  men,  the  bold  helm 
bearer  gi^eeted  his  dear  comrades  for  the  last  time.  I 
would  not  bear  sword  or  weapon  against  the  worm  if  I 
knew  how  else  I  might  proudly  grapple  with  the  wretch, 


64  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

as  I  of  old  with  Grendel  did.  But  I  ween  this  war  fire  is 
hot,  fierce  and  poisonous;  therefore  have  I  on  me  shield 
and  byrnie.  .  .  .  Then  did  the  famous  warrior  arise 
beside  his  shield,  hard  under  helmet  he  bare  the  sword- 
shirt,  under  the  cliffs  of  stone,  he  trusted  in  the  strength 
of  one  man;  nor  is  such  an  expedition  for  a  coward." 

Fiercely  then  did  the  battle  rage  between  hero  and 
dragon.  But  Beowulf's  sword  failed  him  in  his  need, 
and  it  was  like  to  go  ill  with  him.  Then,  when  his  thanes 
who  watched  saw  that,  fear  fell  upon  them,  and  they 
fled.  One  only,  Wiglaf  was  his  name,  would  not  forsake 
his  liege  lord.  Seizing  his  shield  and  drawing  his  sword, 
he  cried,  "Come,  let  us  go  to  him,  let  us  help  our  chieftain, 
although  the  grim  terror  of  fire  be  hot." 

But  none  would  follow  him,  so  alone  he  went:  "through 
the  fatal  smoke  he  bare  his  war  helmet  to  the  assistance 
of  his  lord." 

Fierce  was  the  fight  and  long.  But  at  length  the 
dragon  lay  dead.  Beowulf  had  conquered,  but  in  con- 
quering he  had  received  his  death  wound.  And  there, 
by  the  wild  seashore,  he  died.  And  there  a  sorrowing 
people  buried  him. 

"For  him,  then,  did  the  people  of  the  Geats  prepare 
upon  the  earth  a  funeral  pile,  strong,  hung  round  with 
helmets,  with  war  boards  and  bright  byrnies  as  he  had 
requested.  Weeping,  the  heroes  laid  down  in  the  midst 
their  dear  lord. 

"Then  began  the  warriors  to  awake  upon  the  hill  the 
mightiest  of  bale-fires.  The  wood  smoke  rose  aloft,  dark 
from  the  foe  of  wood.  Noisily  it  went  mingled  with 
weeping.  .  .  . 

"The  people  of  the  Westerns  wrought  then  a  mound 
over  the  sea:  it  was  high  and  broad,  easy  to  behold  by  the 
sailors  over  the  waves,  and  during  ten  days  they  built 
up  the  beacon  of  the  war-renowned,  the  mightiest  of  fires. 


THE  STORY  OF  BEOWULF  G5 

.  .  .  Then  round  the  mound  rode  a  troupe  of  beasts  of 
war,  of  nobles,  twelve  in  all.  They  would  speak  about 
their  King,  they  would  call  him  to  mind.  They  praised 
his  valor,  and  his  deeds  of  bravery  they  judged  with 
praise,  even  as  it  is  fitting  that  a  man  should  extol  his 
friendly  lord,  should  love  him  in  his  soul,  when  he  must 
depart  from  the  body  to  become  of  naught. 

"Thus  the  people  of  the  Geats,  his  hearth  comrades, 
mourned  their  dear  lord.  They  said  that  he  was  of  the 
kings  of  the  world,  the  mildest  and  gentlest  of  men,  the 
most  gracious  to  his  people,  and  the  most  jealous  of  glory.'' 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

stones  of  Beowulf,  by  H.  E.  Marshall.     Beowulf,  translated  by  W.  Huyshe. 


CHAPTER  XII 

THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  SONG 

Although  there  are  lines  in  Beowulf  which  seem  to  show 
that  the  writer  of  the  poem  was  a  Christian,  they  must 
have  been  added  by  some  one  who  copied  or  retold  the 
story  long  after  the  Saxons  had  come  to  Britain,  for 
the  poet  who  first  told  the  tale  must  have  been  a  heathen, 
as  all  the  Saxons  were. 

The  Britons  were  Christian,  for  they  had  learned  the 
story  of  Christ  from  the  Romans.  But  when  the  Saxons 
conquered  the  land  they  robbed  and  ruined  the  churches, 
the  Christian  priests  were  slain  or  driven  forth,  and  once 
more  the  land  became  heathen. 

Then,  after  many  years  had  passed,  the  story  of  Christ 
was  again  brought  to  England.  This  time  it  came  from 
Ireland.  It  was  brought  from  there  by  St.  Columba, 
who  built  a  church  and  founded  a  monastery  on  the  island 
of  lona.  And  from  there  his  eager,  wandering  priests 
carried  the  stoiy  far  and  wide,  northward  to  the  fortress 
of  the  Pictish  kings,  and  southward  to  the  wild  Saxons 
who  dwelt  amid  the  hills  and  uplands  of  Northumbria. 

To  this  story  of  love  and  gentleness  the  wild  heathen 
listened  in  wonder.  To  help  the  weak,  to  love  and  forgive 
their  enemies,  was  something  unthought  of  by  these  fierce 
sea-rovers.  Yet  they  listened  and  believed.  Once  again 
churches  were  built,  priests  came  to  live  among  the  people, 
and  the  sound  of  Christian  prayer  and  praise  rose  night 
and  morning  from  castle  and  from  hut. 

66 


THE  FATHER  OF  EI^GLISH  SONG        67 

For  thirty  years  and  more  St.  Columba,  the  passionate 
and  tender,  taught  and  labored.  Many  monasteries 
were  founded  which  became,  as  it  were,  the  hghthouses 
of  learning  and  religion.  There  the  monks  and  priests 
lived,  and  from  them  as  centers  they  traveled  out  in  all 
directions  teaching  the  heathen.  And  when  at  last 
St.  Columba  closed  his  tired  eyes  and  folded  his  weary 
hands,  there  were  many  more  to  carry  on  his  work. 

Then,  also,  from  Rome,  as  once  before,  the  story  of 
Christ  was  brought.  In  597,  the  year  in  which  St.  Columba 
died,  St.  Augustine  landed  with  his  forty  followers.  They, 
too,  in  time  reached  Northumbria;  so,  side  by  side,  Roman 
and  Celt  spoke  the  message  of  peace  on  earth,  goodwill 
toward  men. 

The  wild  Saxon  listened  to  this  message,  it  is  true. 
He  took  Christianity  for  his  religion,  but  it  was  rather  as 
if  he  had  put  on  an  outer  dress.  His  new  religion  made 
little  difference  to  his  hfe.  He  still  loved  fighting  and  war, 
and  his  songs  were  still  all  of  war.  He  worshiped  Christ 
as  he  had  worshiped  Woden,  and  looked  upon  Him  as  a 
hero,  only  a  little  more  powerful  than  the  heroes  of  whom 
the  minstrels  sang.  It  was  difficult  to  teach  the  Saxons 
the  Bible  lessons  which  we  know  so  well,  for  in  those  far- 
off  days  there  were  no  Bibles.  There  were  indeed  few 
books  of  any  kind,  and  these  few  belonged  to  the  monks 
and  priests.  They  were  in  Latin,  and  in  some  of  them 
parts  of  the  Bible  had  been  translated  into  Latin.  But 
hardly  any  of  the  men  and  women  of  England  could  read 
or  understand  these  books.  Indeed,  few  people  could  read 
at  all,  for  it  was  still  the  listening  time.  They  learned  the 
history  of  their  country  from  the  songs  of  the  minstrels, 
and  it  was  in  this  way,  too,  that  they  came  to  learn  the 
Bible  stories,  for  these  stories  were  made  into  poetry. 
And  it  was  among  the  rugged  hills  of  Northumbria,  by  the 
rocky  shore  where  the  sounding  waves  beat  and  beat  all 


68  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

day  long,  that  the  first  Christian  songs  in  English  were 
sung.  For  here  it  was  that  Caedmon,  the  "Father  of 
English  Song,"  lived  and  died. 

At  Whitby  there  was  a  monastery  ruled  over  by  the 
Abbess  Hilda.  This  was  a  post  of  great  importance,  for, 
as  you  know,  the  monasteries  were  the  schools  and  libraries 
of  the  country,  and  they  were  the  inns  too,  so  all  the  true 
life  of  the  land  ebbed  and  flowed  through  the  monasteries. 
Here  priest  and  soldier,  student  and  minstrel,  prince  and 
beggar  came  and  went.  Here  in  the  great  hall,  when 
work  was  done  and  the  evening  meal  over,  were  gathered 
all  the  monks  and  their  guests.  Here,  too,  would  gather 
the  simple  folk  of  the  countryside,  the  fishermen  and 
farmers,  the  lay  brothers  and  helpers  who  shared  the 
work  of  the  monastery.  When  the  meal  was  done  the 
minstrels  sang,  while  proud  and  humble  alike  listened 
eagerly.  Or  perhaps  "it  was  agreed  for  the  sake  of  mirth 
that  all  present  should  sing  in  their  turn." 

But  when,  at  the  monastery  of  Whitby,  it  was  agreed 
that  all  should  sing  in  turn,  there  was  one  among  the 
circle  around  the  fire  who  silently  left  his  place  and  crept 
away,  hanging  his  head  in  shame. 

This  man  was  called  Caedmon.  He  could  not  sing, 
and  although  he  loved  to  listen  to  the  songs  of  others, 
"whenever  he  saw  the  harp  come  near  him,"  we  are  told, 
"he  arose  out  of  shame  from  the  feast  and  went  home  to 
his  house."  Away  from  the  bright  firelight  out  into  the 
lonely  dark  he  crept  with  bent  head  and  lagging  steps. 
Perhaps  he  would  stand  a  moment  outside  the  door 
beneath  the  starlight  and  listen  to  the  thunder  of  the 
vraves  and  the  shriek  of  the  winds.  And  as  he  felt  in  his 
heart  all  the  beauty  and  wonder  of  the  world,  the  glory 
and  the  might  of  the  sea  and  sky,  he  would  ask  in  dumb 
pain  why,  when  he  could  feel  it  touch  his  heart,  he  could 
not  also  sing  of  the  beauty  and  wonder,  glory  and  might. 


THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  SONG        69 

One  night  Caedmon  crept  away  as  usual,  and  went 
"out  of  the  house  where  the  entertainment  was,  to  the 
stable,  where  he  had  to  take  care  of  the  horses  that  night. 
He  there  composed  himself  to  rest.  A  person  appeared 
to  him  then  in  a  dream  and,  calling  him  by  name,  said, 
'Caedmon,  sing  some  song  to  me.' 

"He  answered,  'I  cannot  sing;  for  that  was  the 
reason  why  I  left  the  entertaimnent  and  retired  to  this 
place,  because  I  cannot  sing.' 

"The  other  who  talked  to  him  repHed,  'However, 
you  shall  sing.' 

"  'What  shall  I  sing?'  rejoined  he. 

"'Sing  the  beginning  of  created  things,'  said  the 
other. 

"Whereupon  he  presently  began  to  sing  verses  to  the 
praise  of  God,  which  he  had  never  heard,  the  purport 
whereof  was  thus: — 

'Now  must  we  praise  the  guardian  of  heaven's  kingdom, 
The  creator's  might  and  his  mind's  thought; 
Glorious  father  of  men !  as  of  every  wonder  he. 
Lord  eternal,  formed  the  beginning. 
He  first  framed  for  the  children  of  earth 
The  heaven  as  a  roof;  holy  Creator! 
Then  mid-earth,  the  Guardian  of  mankind. 
The  eternal  Lord,  afterwards  produced; 
The  earth  for  men,  Lord  almighty.' 

"This,"  says  the  old  historian,  who  tells  the  story  in 
Latin,  "is  the  sense,  but  not  the  words  in  order  as  he  sang 
them  in  his  sleep.  For  verses,  though  never  so  Avell  com- 
posed, cannot  be  literally  (that  is  word  for  Avord)  trans- 
lated out  of  one  language  into  another  without  losing 
much  of  their  beauty  and  loftiness."  ^ 

Awakening  from  his  sleep,  Caedmon  remembered  all 
that  he  had  sung  in  his  dream.  And  the  dream  did  not 
fade  away  as  most  dreams  do.     For  he  found  that  not 

*Bede,  Ecclesiastical  Uistory. 


70  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

only  could  he  sing  these  verses,  but  he  who  had  before 
been  dumb  and  ashamed  when  the  harp  was  put  into  his 
hand,  could  now  make  and  sing  more  beautifully  than 
could  others.    And  all  that  he  sang  was  to  God's  glory. 

In  the  morning,  full  of  his  wonderful  new  gift,  Caedmon 
went  to  the  steward  who  was  set  over  him,  and  told  him 
of  the  vision  that  he  had  had  during  the  night.  And  the 
steward,  greatly  marveling,  led  Caedmon  to  the  Abbess. 

The  Abbess  listened  to  the  strange  tale.  Then  she 
commanded  Caedmon,  "in  the  presence  of  many  learned 
men,  to  tell  his  dream  and  repeat  the  verses  that  they 
might  all  give  their  judgment  what  it  was  and  whence 
his  verse  came." 

So  the  simple  farm  laborer,  who  had  no  learning  of 
any  kind,  sang  while  the  learned  and  grave  men  listened. 
And  he  who  was  wont  to  creep  away  in  dumb  shame, 
fearing  the  laughter  of  his  fellows,  sang  now  with  such 
beauty  and  sweetness  that  they  were  all  of  one  mind, 
saying  that  the  Lord  Himself  had,  of  His  heavenly  grace, 
given  to  Caedmon  this  new  power. 

Then  these  learned  men  repeated  to  Caedmon  some 
part  of  the  Bible,  explained  the  meaning  of  it,  and  asked 
hnn  to  tell  it  again  in  poetry.  This  Caedmon  undertook 
to  do,  and  when  he  fully  understood  the  words,  he  went 
away.  Next  morning  he  returned  and  repeated  all  that 
he  had  been  told,  but  now  it  was  in  beautiful  poetry. 

Then  the  Abbess  saw  that,  indeed,  the  gi-ace  of  God 
had  come  upon  the  man.  She  made  him  at  once  give  up 
the  life  of  a  servant  which  he  had  been  leading,  and  bade 
him  become  a  monk.  Caedmon  gladly  did  her  bidding, 
and  when  he  had  been  received  among  them,  his  brother 
monks  taught  to  him  all  the  Bible  stories. 

But  Caedmon  could  neither  read  nor  write,  nor  is  it  at 
all  likely  that  he  ever  learned  to  do  either  even  after  he 
became  a  monk,  for  we  are  told  that  "he  was  well  advanced 


'C^DMON,   SING   SOME   SONG  TO   ME.'" 


THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  SONG        71 

in  years"  before  his  great  gift  of  song  came  to  him.  It  is 
quite  certain  that  he  could  not  read  Latin,  so  that  all  that 
he  put  into  verse  had  to  be  taught  to  him  by  some  more 
learned  brother.  And  some  one,  too,  must  have  written 
down  the  verses  which  Caedmon  sang. 

We  can  imagine  the  pious,  humble  monk  listening  while 
another  read  and  translated  to  him  out  of  some  Latin 
missal.  He  would  sit  with  clasped  hands  and  earnest 
eyes,  intent  on  understanding.  Then,  when  he  had  filled 
his  mind  with  the  sacred  story,  he  would  go  away  by 
himself  and  weave  it  into  song.  Perhaps  he  would  walk 
about  beneath  the  glowing  stars  or  by  the  sounding  sea, 
and  thank  God  that  he  was  no  longer  dumb,  and  that 
at  last  he  could  say  forth  all  that  before  had  been  shut 
within  his  heart  in  an  agony  of  silence.  "And,"  we  are 
told,  "his  songs  and  his  verse  were  so  winsome  to  hear, 
that  his  teachers  themselves  wrote  and  learned  from  his 
mouth." 

"Thus  Caedmon,  keeping  in  mind  all  he  heard,  and, 
as  it  were,  chewing  the  cud,  converted  the  same  into  most 
harmonious  verse;  and  sweetly  repeating  the  same,  made 
his  masters  in  their  turn  his  hearers. 

"He  sang  the  creation  of  the  world,  the  origin  of  man, 
and  all  the  history  of  Genesis;  and  made  many  verses 
on  the  departure  of  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt, 
and  their  entering  into  the  land  of  promise,  with  many 
other  histories  from  holy  writ." 

As  has  been  said,  there  are  lines  in  Beowulf  which 
seem  to  have  been  written  by  a  Christian.  But  all  that 
is  Christian  in  it  is  merely  of  the  outside;  it  could  easily 
be  taken  away,  and  the  poem  would  remain  perfect.  The 
whole  feeling  of  the  poem  is  not  Christian,  but  pagan. 
So  it  would  seem  that  what  is  Christian  in  it  has  been  added 
long  after  the  poem  was  first  made,  yet  added  before  the 
people  had  forgotten  their  pagan  ways. 


72  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

For  very  long  after  they  became  Christian  the  Saxons 
kept  their  old  pagan  ways  of  thought,  and  Caedmon, 
when  he  came  to  sing  of  holy  things,  sang  as  a  minstrel 
might.  To  him  Abraham  and  Moses,  and  all  the  holy 
men  of  old,  were  like  the  warrior  chieftains  whom  he 
knew  and  of  whom  the  minstrels  sang.  And  God  to  him 
was  but  the  greatest  of  these  warriors.  He  is  "Heaven's 
Chief,"  "the  Great  Prince."  The  clash  and  clang  of  sword 
on  shield  sound  throughout  the  poem.  Banners  flutter 
and  trumpet  calls  are  heard  "amid  the  gi'im  clash  of  helms." 
War  filled  the  greatest  half  of  life.  All  history,  all  poetry 
were  bound  up  in  it.  Caedmon  sang  of  what  he  saw,  of 
what  he  knew.  He  was  Christian,  he  had  learned  the 
lesson  of  peace  on  earth,  but  he  lived  amid  the  clash  of 
arms  and  sang  of  them. 


CHAPTER  XIII 

HOW  CAEDMON  SANG,  AND  HOW  HE  FELL  ONCE  MORE 

ON  SILENCE 

One  of  Caedmon's  poems  is  called  The  Genesis.  In  this 
the  poet  begins  by  telling  of  how  Satan,  in  his  pride, 
rebelled  against  God,  and  of  how  he  was  cast  forth  from 
heaven  with  all  those  who  had  joined  with  him  in  rebelling. 

This  story  of  the  war  in  heaven  and  of  the  angels'  fall 
is  not  in  the  Bible.  It  is  not  to  be  found  either  in  any  of 
the  Latin  books  which  the  monks  of  Whitby  may  have 
had.  The  story  did  not  come  from  Home,  but  from  the 
East.    How,  then,  did  Caedmon  hear  it? 

Whitby,  we  must  remember,  was  founded  by  Celtic, 
and  not  by  Roman  monks.  It  was  founded  by  monks 
who  came  from  Ireland  to  lona,  and  from  thence  to 
Northumbria.  To  them  the  teaching  of  Christ  had  come 
from  Jerusalem  and  the  East  rather  than  from  Rome. 
So  here  again,  perhaps,  we  can  see  the  effect  of  the  Celts 
on  our  literature.  It  was  from  Celtic  monks  that  Caedmon 
heard  the  story  of  the  war  in  heaven. 

After  telling  of  this  war,  Caedmon  goes  on  to  relate 
how  the  wicked  angels  "into  darkness  urged  them  their 
darksome  way." 

"They  might  not  loudly  laugh. 
But  they  in  hell-torments. 
Dwelt  accursed. 
And  woe  they  knew 
Pain  and  sorrow, 
73 


74  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Torment   endured 
With   darkness   decked. 
Hard  retribution, 
For  that  they  had  devised 
Against  God  to  war." 

Then  after  all  the  fierce  clash  of  battle  come  a  few  lines 
which  seem  like  peace  after  war,  quiet  after  storm. 

"Then  was  after  as  before 
Peace  in  heaven. 
Fair-loving  thanes, 
The  Lord  dear  to  all." 

Then  God  grieved  at  the  empty  spaces  in  heaven  from 
whence  the  wicked  angels  had  been  driven  forth.  And 
tha^"  they  might  at  last  be  filled  again,  he  made  the  world 
and  placed  a  man  and  woman  there.  This  to  the  chief 
of  the  fallen  angels  was  grief  and  pain,  and  his  heart  boiled 
within  him  in  anger. 

"Heaven  is  lost  to  us,"  he  cried;  "but  now  that  we  ma}" 
not  have  it,  let  us  so  act  that  it  shall  be  lost  to  them  also. 
Let  us  make  them  disobey  God, 

"Then  with  them  will  he  be  wroth  of  mindj 
Will  cast  them  from  his  favor. 
Then  shall  they  seek  this  hell 
And  these  grim  depths, 

Then  may  we  have  them  to  ourselves  as  vassals. 
The  children  of  men  in  this  fast  durance." 

Then  Satan  asks  who  will  help  him  to  tempt  mankind  to 
do  wrong.  "If  to  any  followers  I  princely  treasure  gave 
of  old  while  we  in  that  good  realm  happy  sate,"  let  him 
my  gift  repay,  let  him  now  aid  me. 

So  one  of  Satan's  followers  made  himself  ready.  "On 
liis  head  the  chief  his  helmet  set,"  and  he,  "wheeled  up 
from  thence,  departed  through  the  doors  of  hell  lionlike 
in  air,  in  hostile  mood,  dashed  the  fire  aside,  with  a  fiend's 
power." 


HOW  CAEDMON  SANG  ^5 

Caedmon  next  tells  how  the  fiend  tempted  first  the 
man  and  then  the  woman  with  guileful  lies  to  eat  of  the 
fruit  which  had  been  forbidden  to  them,  and  how  Eve 
yielded  to  him.  And  having  eaten  of  the  forbidden  fruit, 
Eve  urged  Adam  too  to  eat,  for  it  seemed  to  her  that  a 
fair  new  life  was  open  to  her.  "I  see  God's  angels,"  she 
said, 

"Encompass  him 
With  feathery  wings 
Of  all  folk  greatest. 
Of  bands  most  joyous. 
I  can  hear  from  far 
And  so  widely  see. 
Through  the  whole  world. 
Over  the  broad  creation. 
I  can  the  joy  of  the  firmament 
Hear  in  heaven. 
It  became  light  to  me  in  mind 
From  without  and  within 
After  the  fruit  I  tasted." 

And  thus,  urged  by  Eve,  Adam  too  ate  of  the  forbidden 
fruit,  and  the  man  and  woman  were  driven  out  of  the 
Happy  Garden,  and  the  curse  fell  upon  them  because  of 
their  disobedience. 

So  they  went  forth  "into  a  narrower  life."  Yet  there 
was  left  to  them  "the  roof  adorned  with  holy  stars,  and 
earth  to  them  her  ample  riches  gave." 

In  many  places  this  poem  is  only  a  paraphrase  of  the 
Bible.  A  paraphrase  means  the  same  thing  said  in  other 
words.  But  in  other  places  the  poet  seems  to  forget  his 
model  and  sings  out  of  his  own  heart.  Then  his  song  is 
best.  Perhaps  some  of  the  most  beautiful  lines  are  those 
which  tell  of  the  dove  that  Noah  sent  forth  from  the  ark. 

"Then  after  seven  nights 
He  from  the  ark  let  forth 
A  palid  dove 
To  fly  after  the  swart  raven. 


76  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Over  the  deep  water. 

To  quest  whether  the  foaming  sea 

Had  of  the  green  earth 

Yet  any  part  laid  bare. 

Wide  she  flew  seeking  her  own  will. 

Far  she  flew  yet  found  no  rest. 

Because  of  the  flood 

With  her  feet  she  might  not  perch  on  land, 

Nor  on  the  tree  leaves  light. 

For  the  steep  mountain  tops 

Were  whelmed  in  waters. 

Then  the  wild  bird  went 

At  eventide  the  ark  to  seek. 

Over  the  darkling  wave  she  flew 

W^eary,  to  sink  hungry 

To  the  hands  of  the  holy  man." 

A  second  time  the  dove  is  sent  forth,  and  this  is  how  the 
poet  tells  of  it: — 

"Far  and  wide  she  flew 
Glad  in  flying  free,  till  she  found  a  place 
Fair,  where  she  might  rest.     With  her  feet  she  stept 
On  a  gentle  tree.     Gay  of  mood  she  was  and  glad 
Since  she  sorely  tired,  now  could  settle  down, 
On  the  branches  of  the  tree,  on  its  beamy  mast. 
Then  she  fluttered  feathers,  went  a  flying  off  again. 
With  her  booty  flew,  brought  it  to  the  sailor. 
From  an  olive  tree  a  twig,  right  into  his  hands 
Brought  the  blade  of  green. 

"Then  the  chief  of  seamen  knew  that  gladness  was 
at  hand,  and  he  sent  forth  after  three  weeks  the  wild 
dove  who  came  not  back  again;  for  she  saw  the  land  of 
the  greening  trees.  The  happy  creature,  all  rejoicing, 
would  no  longer  of  the  ark,  for  she  needed  it  no  more."  ^ 

Besides  Genesis  many  other  poems  were  thought  at 
one  time  to  have  been  made  by  Caedmon.  The  chief  of 
these  are  Exodus  and  Daniel.  They  are  all  in  an  old 
book,  called  the  Jiinian  MS.,  from  the  name  of  the  man, 

^Stopford   Brooke. 


HOW  CAEDMON  SANG  77 

Francis  Dujon,  who  first  published  them.  The  MS.  was 
found  among  some  other  old  books  in  Trinity  College, 
Dublin,  and  given  to  Francis  Dujon.  He  published  the 
poems  in  1655,  and  it  is  from  that  time  that  we  date  our 
knowledge  of  Caedmon. 

Wise  men  tell  us  that  Caedmon  could  not  have 
made  any  of  these  poems,  not  even  the  Genesis  of  which 
you  have  been  reading.  But  if  Caedmon  did  not  make 
these  very  poems,  he  made  others  like  them  which  have 
been  lost.  It  was  he  who  first  showed  the  way,  and  other 
poets  followed. 

We  need  not  wonder,  perhaps,  that  our  poetry  is  a 
splendor  of  the  world  when  we  remember  that  it  is  rooted 
in  these  grand  old  tales,  and  that  it  awoke  to  life  through 
the  singing  of  a  strong  son  of  the  soil,  a  herdsman  and  a 
poet.  We  know  very  little  of  this  first  of  English  poets, 
but  what  we  do  know  makes  us  love  him.  He  must  have 
been  a  gentle,  humble,  kindly  man,  tender  of  heart  and 
pure  of  mind.  Of  his  birth  we  know  nothing;  of  his  life 
little  except  the  story  which  has  been  told.  And  when 
death  came  to  him,  he  met  it  cheerfully  as  he  had 
lived. 

For  some  days  he  had  been  ill,  but  able  still  to  walk 
and  talk.  But  one  night,  feeling  that  the  end  of  life  for 
him  was  near,  he  asked  the  brothers  to  give  to  him  for 
the  last  time  the  Eucharist,  or  sacrament  of  the  Lord's 
Supper. 

"They  answered,  'What  need  of  the  Eucharist?  for 
you  are  not  likely  to  die,  since  you  talk  so  merrily  with  us, 
as  if  you  were  in  perfect  health.' 

"  'However,'  said  he,  'bring  me  the  Eucharist.' 

"Having  received  the  same  into  liis  hand,  he  asked 
whether  they  were  all  in  charity  with  him,  and  without 
any  enmity  or  rancour. 

"Thej^  answered  that  they  were  all  in  perfect  charity 


78  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

and  free  from  anger;  and  in  their  turn  asked  him  whether 
he  was  in  the  same  mind  towards  them. 

"He  answered,  'I  am  in  charity,  my  children,  with  all 
the  servants  of  God.' 

"Then,  strengthening  himself  with  the  heavenly  viati- 
cum,^ he  prepared  for  the  entrance  into  another  life,  and 
asked  how  near  the  time  was  when  the  brothers  were  to 
be  awakened  to  sing  the  nocturnal  praises  of  our  Lord. 

"They  answered,  'It  is  not  far  off.' 

"Then  he  said,  'Well,  let  us  wait  that  hour.'  And 
signing  himself  with  the  sign  of  the  cross,  he  laid  his  head 
on  the  pillow,  and  falling  into  a  slumber  ended  his  life  so 
in  silence." 

Thus  his  life,  which  had  been  begun  in  silence,  ended 
also  in  silence,  with  just  a  few  singing  years  between. 

"Thus  it  came  to  pass,  that  as  he  had  served  God  with 
a  simple  and  pure  mind,  and  undisturbed  devotion,  so 
he  now  departed  to  His  presence,  leaving  the  world  by  a 
quiet  death.  And  that  tongue  which  had  composed  so 
many  holy  words  in  praise  of  the  Creator,  uttered  its  last 
words  while  he  was  in  the  act  of  signing  himself  with  a 
cross,  and  recommending  himself  into  His  hands."  ^ 

At  Whitby  still  the  ruins  of  a  monastery  stand.  It  is 
not  the  monastery  over  which  the  Abbess  Hilda  ruled  or 
in  which  Caedmon  sang,  for  in  the  ninth  century  that 
was  plundered  and  destroyed  by  the  fierce  hordes  of  Danes 
who  swept  our  shores.  But  in  the  twelfth  century  the 
house  was  rebuilt,  and  parts  of  that  building  are  still  to 
be  seen. 

*  The  Eucharist  given  to  the  dying. 

*  Bade,   Ecclesiastical  History. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  HISTORY 

While  Caedmon  was  still  singing  at  Whitby,  in  another 
Northumbrian  village  named  Jarrow  a  boy  was  born. 
This  boy  we  know  as  Bede,  and  when  he  was  seven  years 
old  his  friends  gave  him  into  the  keeping  of  the  Abbot 
of  Wearmouth.  Under  this  Abbot  there  were  two  mon- 
asteries, the  one  at  Jarrow  and  the  other  at  Wearmouth, 
a  few  miles  distant.  And  in  these  two  monasteries  Bede 
spent  all  the  rest  of  his  life. 

When  Bede  was  eight  years  old  Caedmon  died.  And 
although  the  little  boy  had  never  met  the  great,  but  humble 
poet,  he  must  have  heard  of  him,  and  it  is  from  Bede's 
history  that  we  learn  all  that  we  know  of  Caedmon. 

There  is  almost  as  little  to  tell  of  Bede's  life  as  of 
Caedmon's.  He  passed  it  peacefully,  reading,  writing, 
and  teaching  within  the  walls  of  his  beloved  monastery. 
But  without  the  walls  wars  often  raged,  for  England 
was  at  this  time  still  divided  into  several  kingdoms,  whose 
kings   often   fought   against   each   other. 

Bede  loved  to  learn  even  when  he  was  a  boy.  We 
know  this,  for  long  afterward  another  learned  man  told 
his  pupils  to  take  Bede  for  an  example,  and  not  spend 
their  time  "digging  out  foxes  and  coursing  hares."  ^  And 
when  he  became  a  man  he  was  one  of  the  most  learned  of 
his  time,  and  wrote  books  on  nearly  every  subject  that 
was  then  thought  worth  writing  about. 

^  C.   Plumraer. 
79 


80  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Once,  when  Bede  was  still  a  boy,  a  fearful  plague 
swept  the  land,  "killing  and  destroying  a  great  multitude 
of  men."  In  the  monastery  of  Jarrow  all  who  could  read, 
or  preach,  or  sing  were  killed  by  it.  Only  the  Abbot 
himself  and  a  little  lad  were  left.  The  Abbot  loved  the 
services  and  the  praises  of  the  church.  His  heart  was 
heavy  with  grief  and  mourning  for  the  loss  of  his  friends; 
it  was  heavy,  too,  with  the  thought  that  the  services  of 
his  church  could  no  longer  be  made  beautiful  with  song. 

For  a  few  days  the  Abbot  read  the  services  all  alone, 
but  at  the  end  of  a  week  he  could  no  longer  bear  the  lack 
of  singing,  so  calling  the  little  lad  he  bade  him  to  help 
him  and  to  chant  the  responses. 

The  story  calls  up  to  us  a  strange  picture.  There 
stands  the  great  monastery,  all  its  rooms  empty.  Along 
its  stone-flagged  passages  the  footsteps  of  the  man  and 
boy  echo  strangely.  They  reach  the  chapel  vast  and  dim, 
and  there,  before  the  great  altar  with  its  gleaming  lights, 
the  Abbot  in  his  robes  chants  the  services,  but  where  the 
voices  of  choir  and  people  were  wont  to  join,  there  sounds 
only  the  clear  high  voice  of  one  little  boy. 

That  little  boy  was  Bede. 

And  thus  night  and  morning  the  sound  of  prayer  and 
praise  rose  from  the  deserted  chapel  until  the  force  of  the 
plague  had  spent  itself,  and  it  was  once  more  possible 
to  find  men  to  take  the  places  of  those  singers  who  had 
died. 

So  the  years  passed  on  until,  when  Bede  was  thirty 
years  of  age,  he  became  a  priest.  He  might  have  been 
made  an  abbot  had  he  wished.  But  he  refused  to  be 
taken  away  from  his  beloved  books.  "The  office,"  he  said, 
"demands  household  care,  and  household  care  brings  with 
it  distraction  of  mind,  hindering  the  pursuit  of  learning."  ^ 

Bede  wrote  many  books,  but  it  is  by  his  Ecclesiastical 

^  H.  Morley,  English   Writers. 


THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  HISTORY     81 

History  (that  is  Church  history)  that  we  remember  him 
best.  As  Caedmon  is  called  the  Father  of  English  Poetry, 
Bede  is  called  the  Father  of  Enghsh  History.  But  it  is 
well  to  remember  that  Caedmon  wrote  in  Anglo-Saxon 
and  Bede  in  Latin. 

There  were  others  who  wrote  history  before  Bede,  but 
he  was  perhaps  the  first  w^ho  wrote  history  in  the  right 
sjiirit.  He  did  not  write  in  order  to  make  a  good  minstrel's 
tale.  He  tried  to  tell  the  truth.  He  was  careful  as  to 
where  he  got  his  facts,  and  careful  how  he  used  them. 
So  those  who  came  after  him  could  trust  him.  Bede's 
History,  you  remember,  was  one  of  the  books  which  Laya- 
mon  used  when  he  wrote  his  Brut,  and  in  it  we  find  many 
of  the  stories  of  early  British  history  which  have  grown 
familiar   to   us. 

It  is  in  this  book  that  we  find  the  story  of  how  Gregory 
saw  the  pretty  children  in  the  Roman  slave  market,  and 
of  how,  for  love  of  their  fair  faces,  he  sent  Augustine  to 
teach  the  heathen  Saxons  about  Christ.  There  are,  too, 
many  stories  in  it  of  how  the  Saxons  became  Christian. 
One  of  the  most  interesting,  perhaps,  is  about  Edwin, 
King  of  Northumbria.  Edwin  had  married  a  Christian 
princess,  Ethelberga,  sister  of  Eadbald,  King  of  Kent. 
Eadbald  was,  at  first,  unwilling  that  his  sister  should 
marry  a  pagan  king.  But  Edwin  promised  that  he  would 
not  try  to  turn  her  from  her  religion,  and  that  she  and 
all  wlio  came  with  her  should  be  allowed  to  worship  what 
god   they  chose. 

So  the  Princess  Ethelberga  came  to  be  Queen  of 
Northumbria,  and  with  her  she  brought  Paulinus,  "a 
man  beloved  of  God,"  as  priest.  He  came  to  help  her  to 
keep  faithful  among  a  heathen  people,  and  in  the  hope, 
too,  that  he  might  be  able  to  turn  the  pagan  king  and  his 
folk  to  the  true  faith. 

And    in    this    hope    he    was    not    disapj^ointed.      By 


82  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

degrees  King  Edwin  began  to  think  much  about  the 
Christian  faith.  He  gave  up  worshiping  idols,  and 
although  he  did  not  at  once  become  Christian,  "he  often 
sat  alone  with  silent  lips,  while  in  his  inmost  heart  he 
argued  much  with  himself,  considering  what  was  best  to 
do  and  what  religion  he  should  hold  to."  At  last  the 
King  decided  to  call  a  council  of  his  wise  men,  and  to  ask 
each  one  what  he  thought  of  this  new  teaching.  And 
when  they  were  all  gathered  Coifi,  the  chief  priest,  spoke. 

"  'O  King,'  he  said,  'consider  what  this  is  which  is 
now  preached  to  us;  for  I  verily  declare  to  you,  that  the 
religion  which  we  have  hitherto  professed  has,  as  far  as  I 
can  learn,  no  virtue  in  it.  For  none  of  your  people  has 
applied  himself  more  diligently  to  the  worship  of  our  gods 
than  I.  And  yet  there  are  many  who  receive  greater 
favors  from  you,  and  are  more  preferred  than  I,  and  are 
more  prosperous  in  their  undertakings.  Now  if  the  gods 
were  good  for  anything,  they  would  rather  forward  me, 
who  have  been  more  careful  to  serve  them.  It  remains, 
therefore,  that  if  upon  examination  you  find  those  new 
doctrines,  which  are  now  preached  to  us,  better  and 
more  efficacious,  we  immediately  receive  them  without 
delay.' 

"Another  of  the  King's  chief  men,  approving  of  his 
words  and  exhortations,  presently  added:  'The  present 
life  of  man,  O  King,  seems  to  me,  in  comparison  of  that 
time  which  is  unknown  to  us,  like  to  the  swift  flight  of  a 
sparrow  through  the  room  wherein  you  sit  at  supper  in 
winter,  with  your  commanders  and  ministers,  and  a  good 
fire  in  the  midst,  while  the  storms  of  rain  and  snow  prevail 
abroad.  The  sparrow,  I  say,  flying  in  at  one  door  and 
immediately  out  at  another,  whilst  he  is  within  is  safe 
from  the  wintry  storm;  but  after  a  short  space  of  fair 
weather,  he  immediately  vanishes  out  of  your  sight  into 
the  dark  winter  from  whence  he  had  emerged.     So  this 


THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  HISTORY    83 

life  of  man  appears  for  a  short  space,  but  of  what  went 
before,  or  what  is  to  follow,  we  are  utterly  ignorant.  If, 
therefore,  this  new  doctrine  contains  something  more  cer- 
tain, it  seems  justly  to  deserve  to  be  followed.'  " 

Others  of  the  King's  wise  men  and  counselors  spoke, 
and  they  all  spoke  to  the  same  end.  Coifi  then  said  that 
he  w^ould  hear  yet  more  of  what  Paulinus  had  to  tell.  So 
Paulinus  rose  from  his  place  and  told  the  people  more  of 
the  story  of  Christ.  And  after  listening  attentively  for 
some  time  Coifi  again  cried  out,  "  'I  advise,  O  King,  that 
we  instantly  abjure  and  set  fire  to  those  temples  and 
altars  which  we  have  consecrated  without  reaping  any 
benefit  from  them.' 

"In  short,  the  King  publicly  gave  his  license  to  Paulinus 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  and  renouncing  idolatry,  declared 
that  he  received  the  faith  of  Christ.  And  when  he  in- 
quired of  the  high  priest  who  should  first  profane  the 
altars  and  temples  of  their  idols  with  the  enclosures  that 
were  about  them,  Coifi  answered,  'I;  for  who  can  more 
properly  than  myself  destroy  those  things  which  I  wor- 
shiped through  ignorance,  for  an  example  to  all  others 
through  the  wisdom  which  has  been  given  me  by  the  true 
God?' 

"Then  immediately,  in  contempt  of  his  former  super- 
stitions, he  desired  the  King  to  furnish  him  with  arms  and 
a  stallion.  And  mounting  the  same  he  set  out  to  destroy 
the  idols.  For  it  was  not  lawful  before  for  the  high  priest 
either  to  carry  arms  or  to  ride  upon  any  but  a  mare. 

"Having,  therefore,  girt  a  sword  about  him,  with  a 
spear  in  his  hand,  he  mounted  the  King's  stallion  and 
proceeded  to  the  idols.  The  multitude,  beholding  it, 
concluded  he  was  distracted.  But  he  lost  no  time,  for 
as  soon  as  he  drew  near  the  temple  he  profaned  the  same, 
casting  into  it  the  spear  which  he  held.  And  rejoicing 
in  the  knowledge  of  the  worship  of  the  true  God,  he  com- 


84  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

manded  his  companions  to  destroy  the  temple,  with  all 
its  enclosures,  by  fire."  ^ 

One  reason  why  I  have  chosen  this  story  out  of  Bede's 
History  is  because  it  contains  the  picture  of  the  sparrow 
flitting  through  the  firelit  room.  Out  of  the  dark  and  cold 
it  comes  into  the  light  and  warmth  for  a  moment,  and 
then  vanishes  into  the  dark  and  cold  once  more. 

The  Saxon  who  more  than  thirteen  hundred  years 
ago  made  that  w^ord-picture  v/as  a  poet.  He  did  not 
know  it,  perhaps,  he  was  only  speaking  of  what  he  had 
often  seen,  telling  in  simple  words  of  something  that 
happened  almost  every  day,  and  yet  he  has  given  us  a 
picture  which  we  cannot  forget,  and  has  made  our  litera- 
ture by  so  much  the  richer.  He  has  told  us  of  something, 
too,  which  helps  us  to  realize  the  rough  life  our  forefathers 
lived.  Even  in  the  king's  palace  the  windows  were  with- 
out glass,  the  doors  stood  open  to  let  out  the  smoke  from 
"the  good  fire  in  the  midst,"  for  there  were  no  chimneys, 
or  at  best  but  a  hole  in  the  roof  to  serve  as  one.  The 
doors  stood  open,  even  though  "the  storms  of  snow  and 
rain  prevailed  abroad,"  and  in  spite  of  the  good  fire,  it 
must  have  been  comfortless  enough.  Yet  many  a  stray 
bird  might  well  be  drawn  thither  hy  the  light  and  warmth. 

Bede  lived  a  peaceful,  busy  life,  and  when  he  came  to 
die  his  end  was  peaceful  too,  and  his  work  ceased  only 
with  his  death.  One  of  his  pupils,  writing  to  a  friend, 
tells  of  these  last  hours. ^ 

For  some  weeks  in  the  bright  springtime  of  735  Bede 
had  been  ill,  yet  "cheerful  and  rejoicing,  giving  thanks 
to  almighty  God  every  day  and  night,  yea  every  hour." 
Daily,  too,  he  continued  to  give  lessons  to  his  pupils,  and 
the  rest  of  the  time  he  spent  in  singing  psalms.     "I  can 

^Dr.  Giles's  translation  of  Ecdesiasilcal  History. 

'  Extracts  are  from  letter  of  Cuthbert,  afterwards  Abbot  of  Wearmouth  and 
Jarrow,  to  his   friend   Cuthwin. 


THE  FATHER  OF  ENGLISH  HISTORY    85 

with  truth  declare  that  I  never  saw  with  my  eyes,  or  heard 
with  my  ears,  any  one  return  thanks  so  unceasingly  to 
the  living  God,"  says  the  letter.  "During  these  days  he 
labored  to  compose  two  works  well  w^orthy  to  be  re- 
membered besides  the  lessons  we  had  from  him,  and 
singing  of  psalms:  that  is,  he  translated  the  Gospel  of 
St.  John  as  far  as  the  words,  'But  what  are  these  among 
so  many,'  into  our  own  tongue  for  the  benefit  of  the 
church,  and  some  collections  out  of  the  Book  of  Notes  of 
Bishop  Isidor. 

"When  the  Tuesday  before  the  Ascension  of  our  Lord 
came,  he  began  to  suffer  still  more  in  his  health.  But  he 
passed  all  that  day  and  dictated  cheerfully,  and  now 
and  then  among  other  things  said,  'Go  on  quickly;  I 
know  not  how  long  I  shall  hold  out,  and  whether  my 
maker  will  not  soon  take  me  away.' 

"But  to  us  he  seemed  very  well  to  know  the  time  of 
his  departure.  And  so  he  spent  the  night  awake  in  thanks- 
giving. And  when  the  morning  appeared,  that  is  Wednes- 
day, he  ordered  us  to  write  with  all  speed  what  he  had 
begun.  .  .  . 

"There  was  one  of  us  with  him  who  said  to  him, 
'Most  dear  Master,  there  is  still  one  chapter  wanting. 
Do  you  think  it  troublesome  to  be  asked  any  more  ques- 
tions?' 

"He  answered,  'It  is  no  trouble.  Take  your  pen  and 
make  ready  and  write  fast.  .  .  .' 

"Then  the  same  boy  said  once  more,  'Dear  Master, 
there  is  yet  one  sentence  not  written.' 

"And  he  said,  'Well,  then  write  it.' 

"And  after  a  little  space  the  boy  said,  'Now  it  is 
finished.' 

"And  he  answered,  'Well,  thou  hast  spoken  truth, 
it  is  finished.  Receive  my  head  into  your  hands,  for  it  is 
a  great   satisfaction   to  me   to   sit   facing  my   holy   place, 


86  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

where  I  was  wont  to  pray,  that  I  may  also,  sitting,  call 
upon  my  Father.'  " 

And  sitting  upon  the  pavement  of  his  little  cell,  he 
sang,  "Glory  be  to  the  Father  and»to  the  Son,  and*  to  the 
Holy  Ghost."  "When  he  had  named  the  Holy  Ghost  he 
breathed  his  last,  and  departed  to  the  heavenly  kingdom." 

So  died  Bede,  surnamed  the  Venerable. 

We  have  come  to  think  of  Venerable  as  meaning  very 
old.  But  Bede  was  only  sixty-two  when  he  died,  and 
Venerable  here  means  rather  "Greatly  to  be  honored." 

There  are  two  or  three  stories  about  how  Bede  came 
to  be  given  his  surname.  One  tells  how  a  young  monk 
was  set  to  write  some  lines  of  poetry  to  be  put  upon  the 
tomb  where  his  master  was  buried.  He  tried  hard,  but 
the  verse  would  not  come  right.  He  could  not  get  the 
proper  number  of  syllables  in  his  lines. 

"In  this  grave  lie  the  bones  of  Bede," 

he  wrote.  But  he  could  not  find  an  adjective  that  would 
make  the  line  the  right  length,  try  how  he  might.  At 
last,  wearied  out,  he  fell  asleep  over  his  task. 

Then,  as  he  slept,  an  angel  bent  down,  and  taking  the 
pen  from  the  monk's  tired  fingers,  wrote  the  words,  "the 
Venerable,"  so  that  the  line  ran,  "In  this  grave  lie  the 
bones  of  the  Venerable  Bede."  And  thus,  for  all  time,  our 
first   great   historian   is   known   as    The    Venerable    Bede. 

BOOK  TO  READ 

The   Ecclesiastical   History   of    the   English   Nation,   by   Bede,   translated   by 
Dr.  Giles. 


CHAPTER  XV 

HOW  ALFRED  THE  GREAT  FOUGHT  WITH  HIS  PEN 

While  Caedmon  sang  his  English  lays  and  Bede  wrote 
his  Latin  books,  Northumbria  had  grown  into  a  center, 
not  only  of  English  learning,  but  of  learning  for  western 
Europe.  The  abbots  of  Jarrow  and  Wearmouth  made 
journeys  to  Rome  and*  brought  back  with  them  precious 
MSS.  for  the  monastery  libraries.  Scholars  from  all  parts 
of  Europe  came  to  visit  the  Northumbrian  monasteries, 
or  sent  thither  for  teachers. 

But  before  many  years  had  passed  all  that  was  changed. 
Times  of  war  and  trouble  were  not  yet  over  for  England. 
Once  again  heathen  hordes  fell  upon  our  shores.  The 
Danes,  fierce  and  lawless,  carrying  sword  and  firebrand 
wherever  they  passed,  leaving  death  and  ruin  in  their 
track,  surged  over  the  land.  The  monasteries  were  ruined, 
the  scholars  were  scattered.  A  life  of  peaceful  study  was 
no  longer  possible,  the  learning  of  two  hundred  years 
was  swept  away,  the  lamp  of  knowledge  lit  by  the  monks 
grew    dim    and    flickered    out. 

But  when  sixty  yeaj-s  or  more  had  passed,  a  king  arose 
who  crushed  the  Danish  power,  and  who  once  more  lit 
that  lamp.     This  king  was  Alfred  the  Great. 

History  tells  us  how  he  fought  the  Danes,  how  he 
despaired,  and  how  he  took  heart  again,  and  how  he  at 
last  conquered  his  enemies  and  brought  peace  to  his  peo- 
ple. 

Alfred  was  great  in  war.    He  was  no  less  great  in  peace. 

87 


88  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

As  he  fought  the  Danes  with  the  sword,  so  he  fought 
ignorance  with  his  pen.  He  loved  books,  and  he  longed 
to  bring  back  to  England  something  of  the  learning  which 
had  been  lost.  Nor  did  he  want  to  keep  learning  for  a 
few  only.  He  wanted  all  his  people  to  get  the  good  of  it. 
And  so,  as  most  good  books  were  written  in  Latin,  which 
onlj^  a  few  could  read,  he  began  to  translate  some  of  them 
into   English. 

In  the  beginning  of  one  of  them  Alfred  saj^s,  "There 
are  only  a  few  on  this  side  of  the  Humber  who  can  under- 
stand the  Divine  Service,  or  even  explain  a  Latin  epistle 
in  English,  and  I  believe  not  many  on  the  other  side  of 
the  Humber  either.  But  they  are  so  few  that  indeed  I 
cannot  remember  one  south  of  the  Thames  when  I  began 
to  reign." 

By  "this  side  of  the  Humber"  Alfred  means  the  south 
side,  for  now  the  center  of  learning  was  no  longer  North- 
umbria,  but  Wessex. 

Alfred  translated  many  books.  He  translated*  books 
of  geography,  history  and  religion,  and  it  is  from  Alfred 
that  our  English  prose  dates,  just  as  English  poetry  dates 
from  Caedmon.  For  you  must  remember  that  although 
we  call  Bede  the  Father  of  English  History,  he  wrote  in 
Latin  for  the  most  j^art,  and  what  he  wrote  in  English  has 
been  lost. 

Besides  writing  himself,  Alfred  encouraged  his  people 
to  write.  He  also  caused  a  national  Chronicle  to  be 
written. 

A  chronicle  is  the  simplest  form  of  history.  The  old 
chronicles  did  not  weave  their  history  into  stories,  they 
simply  put  down  a  date  and  something  that  happened  on 
that  date.  They  gave  no  reasons  for  things,  they  ex- 
pressed no  feelings,  no  thoughts.  So  the  chronicles  can 
hardly  be  called  literature.  They  were  not  meant  to  be 
looked   upon   as   literature.      The   v/riters    of   them    used 


HOW  ALFRED  FOUGHT  WITH  HIS  PEN  89 

them  rather  as  keys  to  memory.  They  kept  all  the  stories 
in  their  memories,  and  the  sight  of  the  name  of  a  king 
or  of  a  battle  was  enough  to  unlock  their  store  of  words. 
And  as  they  told  their  tales,  if  they  forgot  a  part  they 
made  something  up,  just  as  the  minstrels  did. 

Alfred  caused  the  Chronicle  to  be  written  up  from 
such  books  and  records  as  he  had  from  the  coming  of  the 
Romans  until  the  time  in  which  he  himself  reigned.  And 
from  then  onwards  to  the  time  of  the  death  of  King 
Stephen  the  Saxon  Chronicle  was  kept.  It  is  now  one  of 
the  most  useful  books  from  which  we  can  learn  the  history 
of    those    times. 

Sometimes,  especially  at  the  beginning,  the  record  is 
very  scant.  As  a  rule,  there  is  not  more  than  one  short 
sentence  for  a  year,  sometimes  not  even  that,  but  merely 
a   date.     It  is  like  this: — 

"Year  189.  In  this  year  Severus  succeeded  to  the 
empire  and  reigned  seventeen  winters.  He  begirt  Britain 
with  a  dike  from  sea  to  sea. 

"Year  190. 

"Year  199. 

"Year  200.     In  this  year  was  found  the  Holy  Rood." 

And  so  on  it  goes,  and  every  now  and  again,  among 
entries  which  seem  to  us  of  little  or  no  importance,  w^e 
learn  something  that  throws  great  light  on  our  past  history. 
And  when  we  come  to  the  time  of  Alfred's  reign  the  entries 
are  much  more  full.  From  the  Chronicle  we  learn  a  gi-eat 
deal  about  his  wars  with  the  Danes,  and  of  how  he  fought 
them   both   by   land    and   by   sea. 

The  Saxon  Chronicle,  as  it  extended  over  many 
hundred  years,  was  of  course  written  by  many  different 
people,  and  so  parts  of  it  are  written  much  better  than 
other  parts.  Sometimes  we  find  a  writer  who  does  more 
than  merely  set  down  facts,  who  seems  to  have  a  feeling 
for  how  he  tells  his  story,  and  who  tries  to  make  the  thing 


90  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

he  writes  about  living.  Sometimes  a  writer  even  breaks 
into  song. 

Besides  causing  the  Chronicle  to  be  written,  Alfred 
translated  Bede's  History  into  English.  And  so  that  all 
might  learn  the  history  of  their  land,  he  rebuilt  the  ruined 
monasteries  and  opened  schools  in  them  once  more.  There 
he  ordered  that  "Every  free-born  youth  in  the  King- 
dom, who  has  the  means,  shall  attend  to  his  book,  so  long 
as  he  have  no  other  business,  till  he  can  read  English 
perfectly."  ^ 

Alfred  died  after  having  reigned  for  nearly  thirty 
j^ears.  Much  that  he  had  done  seemed  to  die  with  him, 
for  once  again  the  Danes  descended  upon  our  coasts. 
Once  again  they  conquered,  and  Canute  the  Dane  became 
King  of  England.  But  the  English  spirit  was  strong, 
and  the  Danish  invasion  has  left  scarcely  a  trace  upon 
our  language.  Nor  did  the  Danish  power  last  long,  for 
in  1042  we  had  in  Edward  the  Confessor  an  English  king 
once  more.  But  he  was  English  only  in  name.  In  truth 
he  was  more  than  half  French,  and  under  him  French 
forces  began  already  to  work  on  our  literature.  A  few 
years  later  that  French  force  became  overwhelming,  for 
in  1066  William  of  Normandy  came  to  our  shores,  and 
with  his  coming  it  seemed  for  a  time  as  if  the  life  of  English 
literature  was  to  be  crushed  out  forever.  Only  by  the 
Chronicle  were  both  prose  and  poetry  kept  alive  in  the 
English  tongue.  And  it  is  to  Alfred  the  Great  that  we 
owe  this  slender  thread  which  binds  our  English  literature 
of  to-day  with  the  literature  of  a  thousand  years  ago. 

*  Preface  of  Bcethius'  Pastoral  Care,  translated  into  English  by  Alfred. 


CHAPTER  XVI 

WHEN  ENGLISH  SLEPT 

"William  came  o'er  the  sea, 
With  bloody  sword  came  he. 
Cold  heart  and  bloody  sword  hand 
Now  rule  the  English  land." 

The  Heimskringla. 

William  the  Norman  ruled  England.  Norman  knights 
and  nobles  filled  all  the  posts  of  honor  at  court,  all  the 
great  places  in  the  land.  Norman  bishops  and  abbots 
iniled  in  church  and  monastery.  The  Norman  tongue  was 
alone  the  speech  in  court  and  hall,  Latin  alone  was  the 
speech  of  the  learned.  Only  among  the  lowly,  the  un- 
learned,  and  the  poor  was   English  heard. 

It  seemed  as  if  the  English  tongue  was  doomed  to 
vanish  before  the  conquering  Norman,  even  as  the  ancient 
British  tongue  had  vanished  before  the  conquering  Eng- 
lish. And,  in  truth,  for  two  hundred  years  it  might 
have  been  thought  that  English  prose  was  dead,  "put  to 
sleep  by  the  sword."  But  it  was  not  so.  It  slept,  indeed, 
but  to  awake  again.  For  England  conquered  the  con- 
queror. And  when  English  Literature  awoke  once  more, 
it  was  the  richer  through  the  gifts  which  the  Norman  had 
brought. 

One  thing  the  Normans  had  brought  was  a  liking  for 
history,  and  soon  there  sprang  up  a  whole  race  of  chron- 
iclers. They,  like  Bede,  were  monks  and  priests. 
They   lived   in   monasteries,    and   wrote    in    Latin.      One 

91 


92  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

after  another  they  wrote,  and  when  one  laid  down  his  pen, 
another  took  it  up.  Some  of  these  chroniclers  were  mere 
painstaking  men  who  noted  facts  and  dates  with  care. 
But  others  were  true  writers  of  literature,  who  told  their 
tales  in  vivid,  stirring  words,  so  that  they  make  these 
times  live  again  for  us.  The  names  of  some  of  the  best 
of  these  chroniclers  are  Eadmer,  Orderic  Vitalis,  and 
William  of  Malmesbury. 

By  degrees  these  Norman  or  Anglo-Norman  monks 
became  filled  with  the  spirit  of  England.  They  wrote  of 
England  as  of  their  home,  they  were  proud  to  call  them- 
selves English,  and  they  began  to  desire  that  England 
should  stand  high  among  the  nations.  It  is,  you  remember, 
from  one  of  these  chroniclers,  Geoffrey  of  IMonmouth  (see 
chapter  vi),  that  we  date  the  reawakening  of  story-telhng 
in  England. 

As  a  writer  of  history  Geoff*rey  is  bad.  Another 
chronicler  ^  says  of  him,  "Therefore  as  in  all  things  we  trust 
Bede,  whose  wisdom  and  truth  are  not  to  be  doubted: 
so  that  fabler  with  his  fables  shall  be  forthwith  spat  out 
by   us    all." 

But  if  Geoffrey  was  bad  as  a  writer  of  history,  he  was 
good  as  "a  fabler,"  and,  as  we  have  seen  in  chapter  vii., 
it  was  to  his  book  that  we  owe  the  first  long  poem  written 
in  English  after  the  Conquest. 

The  Norman  came  with  sword  in  hand,  bringing  in  his 
train  the  Latin-writing  chroniclers.  But  he  did  not  bring 
these  alone.  He  brought  minstrels  also.  Besides  the 
quiet  monks  who  sat  in  their  little  cells,  or  in  the  pleasant 
cloisters,  writing  the  history  of  the  times,  there  were  the 
light-hearted  minstrels  wlio  roamed  the  land  with  harp 
and  song. 

The  man  who  struck  the  first  blow  at  Hastings  was  a 
minstrel  who,  as  he  rode  against  the  English,  sang.    And 

*  William    of    Newbury. 


WHEN  ENGLISH  SLEPT  93 

the  song  he  sang  was  of  Roland,  the  great  champion  of 
Charlemagne.  The  lioland  story  is  to  France  what  the 
Arthur  story  is  to  us.  And  it  shows,  perhaps,  the  strength 
of  English  patriotic  spirit  that  that  story  never  took  hold 
of  English  minds.  Some  few  tales  there  are  told  of 
Roland  in  English,  hut  they  are  few  indeed,  in  com- 
parison with  the  many  that  are  told  of  Arthur. 

The  Norman,  however,  who  did  not  readily  invent 
new  tales,  was  ver}^  good  at  taking  and  making  his  own 
the  tales  of  others.  So,  even  as  he  conquered  England 
by  the  sword,  he  conquered  our  literature  too.  For  the 
stories  of  Arthur  were  told  in  French  before  they  came 
back  to  us  in  English.  It  was  the  same  with  other  tales, 
and  many  of  our  old  stories  have  come  down  to  us,  not 
through  their  English  originals,  but  through  the  French. 
For  the  years  after  the  Conquest  are  the  poorest  in  English 
Literature. 

From  the  Conquest  until  Layamon  wrote  his  Brut, 
there  Vv^as  no  English  literature  worthy  of  the  name.  Had 
we  not  already  spoken  of  Layamon  out  of  true  order  in 
following  the  story  of  Arthur,  it  is  here  that  we  should 
speak  of  him  and  of  his  book.  The  Brut.  So,  perhaps, 
it  would  be  well  to  go  back  and  read  chapter  vii.,  and 
then  we  must  go  on  to  the  Metrical  Romances. 

The  three  hundred  years  from  1200  to  1500  were  the 
years  of  the  Metrical  Romances.  Metrical  means  written 
in  verse.  Romance  meant  at  first  the  languages  made 
from  the  Latin  tongue,  such  as  French  or  Spanish.  After 
a  time  the  word  Romance  was  used  to  mean  a  story  told 
in  any  Romance  language.  But  now  we  use  it  to  mean 
any  story  of  strange  and  wonderful  adventures,  especially 
when  the  most  thrilling  adventures  happen  to  the  hero 
and  heroine. 

The  Norman  minstrels,  then,  took  English  tales  and 
made  them  into  romances.     But  when  the  English  began 


94  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

once  more  to  write,  they  turned  these  romances  back  again 
into  Enghsh.  We  still  call  them  romances,  although  they 
are  now  written  in  English. 

Some  of  these  tales  came  to  us,  no  doubt,  from  the 
Danes.  They  were  brought  from  over  the  sea  by  the 
fierce  Northmen,  who  were,  after  all,  akin  to  the  Normans. 
The  Normans  made  them  into  French  stories,  and  the 
English  turned  them  back  into  English. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  most  interesting  of  these  Metrical 
Romances  is  that  of  Havelok  the  Dane. 

The  poem  begins  with  a  few  lines  which  seem  meant 
to  call  the  people  together  to  listen; — 

"Hearken  to  me,  good  men, 
Wives,  maidens,  and  all  men, 
To  a  tale  that  I  will  tell  to 
Who  so  will  hear  and  list  thereto." 

We  can  imagine  the  minstrel  as  he  stands  in  some 
market-place,  or  in  some  firelit  hall,  touching  his  harp 
lightly  as  he  sings  the  words.  With  a  quick  movement 
he  throws  back  his  long  green  cloak,  and  shows  his  gay 
dress  beneath.  Upon  his  head  he  wears  a  jaunty  cap, 
and  his  hair  is  long  and  curled.  He  sings  the  opening 
lines  perhaps  more  than  once,  in  order  to  gather  the  people 
round  him.  Then,  when  the  eager  crowd  sit  or  stand 
about  him,  he  begins  his  lay.  It  is  most  probably  in  a 
market-place  that  the  minstrel  stands  and  sings.  For 
Havelok  the  Dane  was  written  for  the  people  and  not 
for  the  great  folk,  who  still  spoke  only  French. 

"There  was  a  king  in  byegone  days 
That  in  his  time  wrought  good  laws. 
He  did  them  make  and  full  well  hold. 
Him  loved  young,  him  loved  old. 
Earl  and  baron,  strong  man  and  thane. 
Knight,  bondman  and  swain. 
Widows,  maidens,  priests  and  clerks 
And  all  for  his  good  works." 


WHEN  ENGLISH  SLEPT  95 

If  you  will  compare  this  poetry  with  that  of  Layamon, 
you  will  see  that  there  is  something  in  it  quite  different 
from  his.  This  no  longer  rests,  as  that  does,  upon  accent 
and  alliteration,  but  upon  rhyme.  The  English,  too,  in 
which  it  is  written,  is  much  more  like  the  English  of  to-day. 
For  Havelok  was  written  perhaps  a  hundred  years  after 
Layamon's  Brut.  These  are  the  first  lines  as  they  are  in 
the  MS.:— 

"Herknet  to  me  gode  men 
Wiues  maydnes  and  alle  men 
Of  a  tale  J)at  ich  you  wile  telle 
Wo  so  it  wile  here  and  yerto  dwelle." 

That,  you  see,  except  for  curious  spelling,  is  not  very 
unlike  our  English  of  to-day,  although  it  is  fair  to  tell  you 
that  all  the  lines  are  not  so  easy  to  understand  as  these  are. 


CHAPTER  XVII 

THE  STORY  OF  HAVELOK  THE  DANE 

The  good  king  of  whom  we  read  in  the  last  chapter  was 
called  Athelwold,  and  the  poet  tells  us  that  there  were 
happy  days  in  England  while  he  reigned.  But  at  length 
he  became  sick  unto  death.  Then  was  he  sore  grieved, 
because  he  had  no  child  to  sit  upon  the  throne  after  him 
save  a  maiden  very  fair.  But  so  young  was  she  that  she 
could  neither  "go  on  foot  nor  speak  with  mouth."  So, 
in  this  grief  and  trouble,  the  King  wrote  to  all  his  nobles, 
"from  Koxburgh  all  unto  Dover,"  bidding  them  come  to  him. 

And  all  who  had  the  writings  came  to  the  King,  where 
he  lay  at  Winchester.  Then,  when  they  were  all  come, 
Athelwold  prayed  them  to  be  faithful  to  the  young  Prin- 
cess, and  to  choose  one  of  themselves  to  guard  her  until 
she  was  of  age  to  rule. 

So  Godrich,  Earl  of  Cornwall,  was  chosen  to  guard  the 
Princess.  For  he  was  a  true  man,  wise  in  council,  wise  in 
deed,  and  he  swore  to  protet  his  lady  until  she  was  of 
such  age  as  no  longer  to  have  need  of  him.  Then  he  would 
wed  her,  he  swore,  to  the  best  man  in  all  the  land. 

So,  happy  in  the  thought  that  his  daughter  should 
reign  after  him  in  peace,  the  King  died,  and  there  was 
great  sorrow  and  mourning  throughout  the  land.  But 
the  people  remained  at  peace,  for  the  Earl  ruled  well  and 
v/isely. 

"From  Dover  to   Roxburgh 
All  England  of  him  stood  in  awe. 
All  England  was  of  him  adread." 
96 


THE  STORY  OF  HAVELOK  THE  DANE    97 

IMeanwhile  the  Princess  Goldboru  grew  dailj^  more 
and  more  fair.  And  when  Earl  Godrich  saw  how  fair 
and  noble  she  became,  he  sighed  and  asked  himself: — 

"Whether  she  should  be 
Queen  and  lady  over  me. 
Whether  she  should  all  England, 
And  me,  and  mine,  have  in  her  hand. 
Nay,  he  said, 

'I  have  a  son,  a  full  fair  knave. 
He  shall  England  all  have. 
He  shall  be  king,  he  shall  be  sire.'  " 

Then,  full  of  his  evil  purpose,  Godrich  thought  no  more 
of  his  oath  to  the  dead  king,  but  cast  Goldboru  into  a 
darksome  prison,  where  she  was  poorly  clad  and  ill-fed. 

Now  it  befell  that  at  this  time  there  was  a  right  good 
king  in  Denmark.  He  had  a  son  named  Havelok  and 
two  fair  daughters.  And  feeling  death  come  upon  him, 
he  left  his  children  in  the  care  of  his  dear  friend  Godard, 
and  so  died. 

But  no  sooner  was  the  King  in  his  grave  than  the  f^lse 
Godard  took  Havelok  and  his  two  sisters  and  thrust  them 
into   a   dungeon. 

"And  in  the  castle  did  he  them  do 
Where  no  man  might  come  them  to. 
Of  their  kin.     There  they  prison'd  were. 
There  they  wept  oft  sort, 
Both  for  hunger  and  for  cold. 
Ere  they  were  three  winters  old. 
Scantily  he  gave  them  clothes. 
And  cared  not  a  nut  for  his  oaths, 
He  them  nor  clothed  right,  nor  fed. 
Nor  them  richly  gave  to  bed. 
Thane  Godard  was  most  sickerly 
Under  God  the  most  traitorly 
That  ever  in  earth  shapen  was 
Except  the  wicked  Judas." 


98  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

After  a  time  the  traitor  went  to  the  tower  where  the 
children  were,  and  there  he  slew  the  two  little  girls.  But 
the  boy   Havelok  he  spared. 

"For  the  lad  that  little  was. 
He  kneeled  before  that  Judas 
And  said,  'Lord,  mercy  now! 
Homage,  Lord,  to  you  I  vow ! 
All  Denmark  I  to  you  will  give 
If  that  now  you  let  me  live.'  " 

So  the  wicked  Earl  spared  the  lad  for  the  time.  But 
he  did  not  mean  that  he  should  live.  Anon  he  called  a 
fisherman  to  him  and  said: — 

"Grim,  thou  wist  thou  art  my  thral, 
Wilt  thou  do  my  will  all 
That  I  will  bid  thee? 
To-morrow  I  shall  make  thee  free. 
And  give  thee  goods,  and  rich  thee  make, 
If  that  thou  wilt  this  child  take 
And  lead  him  with  thee,  to-night. 
When  thou  seest  it  is  moonlight. 
Unto  the  sea,  and  do  him  in ! 
And  I  will  take  on  me  the  sin." 

Grim,  the  fisherman,  rejoiced  at  the  thought  of  being 
free  and  rich.  So  he  took  the  boy,  and  wound  him  in  an 
old  cloth,  and  stuffed  an  old  coat  into  his  mouth,  so  that 
he  might  not  cry  aloud.  Then  he  thrust  him  into  a  sack, 
and  thus  carried  him  home  to  his  cottage. 

But  when  the  moon  rose,  and  Grim  made  ready  to 
drown  the  child,  his  wife  saw  a  great  light  come  from  the 
sack.  And  opening  it,  they  found  therein  the  prince. 
Then  they  resolved,  instead  of  drowning  him,  to  save  and 
nourish  him  as  their  own  child.  But  they  resolved  also 
to  hide  the  truth  from  the  Earl. 

At  break  of  day,  therefore.  Grim  set  forth  to  tell 
Godard  that  his  will  was  done.     But  instead  of  the  thanks 


THE  STORY  OF  HAVELOK  THE  DANE    99 

and  reward  promised  to  him,  he  got  only  evil  words.  So, 
speeding  homeward  from  that  traitor,  he  made  ready  his 
boat,  and  with  his  wife  and  three  sons  and  two  daughters 
and  Havelok,  they  set  sail  upon  the  high  sea,  fleeing  for 
their  lives. 

Presently  a  great  wind  arose  which  blew  them  to  the 
coast  of  England.  And  when  they  were  safely  come  to 
land,  Grim  drew  up  his  boat  upon  the  shore,  and  there  he 
built  him  a  hut,  and  there  he  lived,  and  to  this  day  men 
call  the  place   Grimsby. 

Years  passed.  Havelok  lived  with  the  fisherman,  and 
grew  great  and  fair  and  strong.  And  as  Grim  was  poor, 
the  Prince  thought  it  no  dishonor  to  work  for  his  living, 
and  he  became  in  time  a  cook's  scullion. 

Havelok  had  to  work  hard.  But  although  he  worked 
hard  he  was  always  cheerful  and  merry.  He  was  so  strong 
that  at  running,  jumping,  or  throwing  a  stone  no  one 
could  beat  him.  Yet  he  was  so  gentle  that  all  the  children 
of  the  place  loved  him  and  played  with  him. 

"Him  loved  all,  quiet  or  bold. 
Knights,  children,  young  and  old. 
All  him  loved  that  him  saw. 
Both  high  men  and  low. 
Of  him  full  wide  the  word  sprang 
How  he  was  meek,  how  he  was  strong." 

At  last  even  the  wicked  Godrich  in  his  palace  heard  of 
Havelok  in  the  kitchen.  "Now  truly  this  is  the  best  man 
in  England,"  he  said,  with  a  sneer.  And  thinking  to  bring 
shame  on  Goldboru,  and  wed  her  with  a  kitchen  knave, 
he  sent   for  Havelok. 

"Master,  wilt  wed?"  he  asked,  when  the  scullion  was 
brought  before  him. 

"Nay,"  quoth  Havelok,  "by  my  life  what  should  I  do 
with  a  wife?  I  could  not  feed  her,  nor  clothe  her,  nor 
shoe  her.     Whither  should  I  bring  a  woman?     I  have  no 


100  ENGLISK  LITEKATURE 

cot,  I  have  no  stick  nor  twig.  I  have  neither  bread  nor 
sauce,  and  no  clothes  but  one  old  oat.  These  clothes 
even  that  I  wear  are  the  cook.'s,  and  I  am  his  knave." 

At  that  Godrich  shook  with  wrath.  Up  he  sprang 
and  began  to  beat  Havelok  without  mercy. 

"And  said,  'Unless  thou  her  take. 
That  I  well  ween  thee  to  make, 
I  shall  hangen  thee  full  high 
Or  I   shall  thrusten  out  thine  eye.'  " 

Then  seeing  that  there  was  no  help  for  it,  and  that  he 
must  either  be  wedded  or  hanged,  Havelok  consented  to 
marry  Goldboru.  So  the  Princess  was  brought,  "the 
fairest  woman  under  the  moon."  And  she,  sore  afraid  at 
the  anger  and  threats  of  Godrich,  durst  not  do  aught  to 
oppose  the  wedding.  So  were  they  "espoused  fair  and 
well"  by  the  Archbishop  of  York,  and  Havelok  took  his 
bride  home  to  Grimsby. 

You  may  be  sure  that  Havelok,  who  was  so  strong  and 
yet  so  gentle,  was  kind  to  his  beautiful  young  wife.  But 
Goldboru  was  unhappy,  for  she  could  not  forget  the  dis- 
grace that  had  come  upon  her.  She  could  not  forget 
that  she  was  a  princess,  and  that  she  had  been  forced  to 
wed  a  low-born  kitchen  knave.  But  one  night,  as  she 
lay  in  bed  weeping,  an  angel  appeared  to  her  and  bade 
her  sorrow  no  more,  for  it  was  no  scullion  that  she  had 
wed,  but  a  king's  son.     So  Goldboru  was  comforted. 

And  of  all  that  afterward  befell  Havelok  and  Goldboru, 
of  how  they  went  to  Denmark  and  overcame  the  traitor 
there,  and  received  the  kingdom;  and  of  how  they  re- 
turned again  to  England,  and  of  how  Godrich  was  pun- 
ished, you  must  read  for  yourselves  in  the  book  of  Have- 
lok the  Dane.  But  this  one  thing  more  I  will  tell 
you,  that  Havelok  and  Goldboru  lived  happily  together 
until  they  died.     They  loved  each  other  so  tenderly  that 


THE  STORY  OF  HAVELOK  THE  DANE    101 

they  were  never  angry  with  each  other.  They  had  fifteen 
children,  and  all  the  sons  became  kings  and  all  the  daugh- 
ters became  queens. 

I  should  like  to  tell  you  many  more  of  these  early 
English  metrical  romances.  I  should  like  to  tell  you  of 
Guy  of  Warwick,  of  King  Horn,  of  William  and  the 
Werewolf,  and  of  many  others.  But,  indeed,  if  I  told  all 
the  stories  I  should  like  to  tell  this  book  would  have  no 
end.     So  we  must  leave  them  and  pass  on. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

The  Story  of  Horelok  the  Dane,  rendered  into  later  English  by  Emily  Hickey. 
The  Lay  of  Havelok  the  Dane,  edited  by  W.  W.  Skeat  in  the  original  English. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

ABOUT  SOME  SONG  STORIES 

Besides    the    metrical    romances,    we    may    date    another 
kind  of  story  from  this  time.     I  mean  the  ballads. 

Ballad  was  an  old  French  word  spelt  balade.  It  really 
means  a  dance-song.  For  ballads  were  at  first  written 
to  be  sung  to  dances — slow,  shuffling,  balancing  dances 
such  as  one  may  still  see  in  out-of-the-way  places  in  Brit- 
tany. 

These  ballads  often  had  a  chorus  or  refrain  in  which 
every  one  joined.  But  by  degrees  the  refrain  was  dropped 
and  the  dancing  too.  Now  we  think  of  a  ballad  as  a 
simple  story  told  in  verse.  Sometimes  it  is  merry,  but 
more  often  it  is  sad. 

The  ballads  were  not  made  for  grand  folk.  They  were 
not  made  to  be  sung  in  courts  and  halls.  They  were  made 
for  the  common  people,  and  sometimes  at  least  they 
were  made  by  them.  They  were  meant  to  be  sung,  and 
sung  out  of  doors.  For  in  those  days  the  houses  of  all  but 
the  great  were  very  comfortless.  They  were  small  and 
dark  and  full  of  smoke.  It  was  little  wonder,  then,  that 
people  lived  out  of  doors  as  much  as  they  could,  and  that 
all  their  amusements  were  out  of  doors.  And  so  it  comes 
about  that  many  of  the  ballads  have  an  out-of-door  feeling 
about  them. 

A  ballad  is  much  shorter  than  a  romance,  and  therefore 
much  more  easily  learned  and  remembered.  So  many 
people  learned   and  repeated  the  ballads,   and   for  three 

102 


ABOUT  SOME  SONG  STORIES  103 

hundred  years  they  were  the  chief  literature  of  the  people. 
In  those  days  men  sang  far  more  and  read  and  thought 
far  less  than  nowadays.  Now,  if  we  read  poetry,  some  of 
us  like  to  be  quietly  by  ourselves.  Then  all  poetry  was 
made  to  be  read  or  sung  aloud,  and  that  in  company. 

I  do  not  mean  you  to  think  that  we  have  any  ballads 
remaining  to  us  as  old  as  the  thirteenth  or  the  beginning 
of  the  fourteenth  century,  which  was  the  time  in  which 
Havelok  was  written.  But  what  I  want  you  to  understand 
is  that  the  ballad-making  days  went  on  for  hundreds  of 
years.  The  people  for  whom  the  ballads  were  made  could 
not  read  and  could  not  write;  so  it  was  of  little  use  to  write 
them  down,  and  for  a  long  time  they  were  not  written  down. 
"They  were  made  for  singing,  an'  no  for  reading,"  said  an 
old  lady  to  Sir  Walter  Scott,  who  in  his  day  made  a 
collection  of  ballads.  "They  were  made  for  singing  an'  no 
for  reading;  but  ye  hae  broken  the  charm  now,  an'  they'll 
never  be  sung  mair." 

And  so  true  is  this,  that  ballads  which  have  never  been 
written  down,  but  which  are  heard  only  in  out-of-the-way 
places,  sung  or  said  by  people  who  have  never  learned  to 
read,  have  really  more  of  the  old-time  feeling  about  them 
than  many  of  those  which  we  find  in  books. 

We  cannot  say  who  made  the  ballads.  Nowadays  a 
poet  makes  a  poem,  and  it  is  printed  with  his  name  upon 
the  title-page.  The  poem  belongs  to  him,  and  is  known 
by  his  name.  We  say,  for  instance,  Gray's  Elegy,  or 
Shakespeare's  Sonnets.  But  many  people  helped  to  make 
the  ballads.  I  do  not  mean  that  twenty  or  thirty  people 
sat  down  together  and  said,  "Let  us  make  a  ballad."  That 
would  not  have  been  possible.  But,  perhaps,  one  man 
heard  a  story  and  put  it  into  verse.  Another  then  heard 
it  and  added  something  to  it.  Still  another  and  another 
heard,  repeated,  added  to,  or  altered  it  in  one  way  or 
another.     Sometimes   the  story   was  made   better   by   the 


104  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

process,  sometimes  it  was  spoiled.  But  who  those  men 
were  who  made  and  altered  the  ballads,  we  do  not  know. 
They  were  simply  "the  people." 

One  whole  group  of  ballads  tells  of  the  wonderful  deeds 
of  Robin  Hood.  Who  Robin  Hood  was  we  do  not  certainly 
know,  nor  does  it  matter  much.  Legend  has  made  him 
a  man  of  gentle  birth  who  had  lost  his  lands  and  money, 
and  who  had  fled  to  the  woods  as  an  outlaw.  Stories 
gradually  gathered  round  his  name  as  they  had  gathered 
round  the  name  of  Arthur,  and  he  came  to  be  looked 
upon  as  the  champion  of  the  people  against  the  Norman 
tyrants. 

Robin  was  a  robber,  but  a  robber  as  courtly  as  any 
knight.  His  enemies  were  the  rich  and  great,  his  friends 
were  the  poor  and  oppressed. 

"For  I  never  yet  hurt  any  man 
That  honest  is  and  true; 
But  those  that  give  their  minds  to  live 
Upon  other  men's  due. 

I  never  hurt  the  husbandmen 

That  used  to  till  the  ground; 
Nor  spill  their  blood  that  range  the  wood 

To  follow  hawk  or  hound. 

My  chiefest  spite  to  clergy  is 

Who  in  those  days  bear  a  great  sway; 

With  friars  and  monks  with  their  fine  sprunks 
I  make  my  chiefest  prey." 

The  last  time  we  heard  of  monks  and  priests  they  were 
the  friends  of  the  people,  doing  their  best  to  teach  them 
and  make  them  happy.  Now  we  find  that  they  are  looked 
upon  as  enemies.  And  the  monasteries,  which  at  the 
beginning  had  been  like  lamps  of  light  set  in  a  dark 
country,  had  themselves  become  centers  of  darkness  and 
idleness. 


'MINSTRELS   SANG   OK   THE   FAMOUS   DEEDS   OF   HEROES.' 


ABOUT  SOME  SONG  STORIES  105 

But  although  Robin  fought  against  the  clergy,  the 
friars,  and  monks  who  did  wrong,  he  did  not  fight  against 
religion. 

"A  good  manner  then  had  Robin; 
In  land  where  that  he  were. 
Every  day  ere  he  would  dine, 
Three  masses  would  he  hear. 

The  one  in  worship  of  the  Father, 

And  another  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
The  third  of  Our  Dear  Lady, 

That  he  loved  all  the  most. 

Robin  loved  Our  Dear  Lady, 

For  doubt  of  deadly  sin. 
Would  he  never  do  company  harm 

That  any  woman  was  in." 

And  Robin  himself  tells  his   followers: — 

"But  look  ye  do  no  husbandman  harm 
That  tilleth  with  his  plough. 

No  more  ye  shall  no  good  yeoman 

That  walketh  by  green  wood  shaw. 
Nor  no  knight  nor  no  squire 

That  will  be  good  fellow. 

These  bishops  and  these  archbishops. 

Ye  shall  them  beat  and  bind. 
The  high  sheriff  of  Nottingham, 

Him  hold  ye  in  your  mind." 

The  great  idea  of  the  Robin  Hood  ballads  is  the 
victory  of  the  poor  and  oppressed  over  the  rich  and 
powerful,  the  triumph  of  the  lawless  over  the  law-givers. 
Because  of  this,  and  because  we  like  Robin  much  better 
than  the  Sheriif  of  Nottingham,  his  chief  enemy,  we  are 
not  to  think  that  the  poor  were  always  right  and  the 
rulers  always  wrong.  There  were  many  good  men  among 
the  despised  monks   and   friars,   bishops   and   archbishops. 


106  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

But  there  were,  too,  many  evils  in  the  land,  and  some  of 
the  laws  pressed  sorely  on  the  people.  Yet  they  were 
never   without   a  voice. 

The  Robin  Hood  ballads  are  full  of  humor;  they  are 
full,  too,  of  English  outdoor  life,  of  hunting  and  fighting. 

Of  quite  another  style  is  the  ballad  of  Sir  Patrick 
Spens.  That  takes  us  away  from  the  green,  leafy  woods 
and  dells  of  England  to  the  wild,  rocky  coast  of  Scotland. 
It  takes  us  from  the  singing  of  birds  to  the  roar  of  the 
waves.  The  story  goes  that  the  King  wanted  a  good 
sailor  to  sail  across  the  sea.  Then  an  old  knight  says 
to  him  that  the  best  sailor  that  ever  sailed  the  sea  is 
Sir  Patrick  Spens. 

So  the  King  writes  a  letter  bidding  Sir  Patrik  make 
ready.  At  first  he  is  pleased  to  get  a  letter  from  the  King, 
but  when  he  has  read  what  is  in  it  his  face  grows  sad  and 
angry  too. 

"Who  has  done  me  this  evil  deed?"  he  cries,  "to  send 
me  out  to  sea  in  such  weather?" 

Sir  Patrick  is  very  unwilling  to  go.  But  the  King  has 
commanded,  so  he  and  his  men  set  forth.  A  great  storm 
comes  upon  them  and  the  ship  is  wrecked.  All  the  men 
are  drowned,  and  the  ladies  who  sit  at  home  waiting  their 
husbands'  return  wait  in  vain. 

There  are  many  versions  of  this  ballad,  but  I  give 
you  here  one  of  the  shortest  and  perhaps  the  most 
beautiful. 

"The  king  sits  in  Dumferling  toune 

Drinking  the  blude  reid  wine: 
*0  whar  will  I  get  a  guid  sailor. 
To  sail  this  schip  of  mine?' 

Up  and  spak  an  eldern  knicht, 

Sat  at  the  king's  richt  kne: 
'Sir  Patrick  Spence  is  the  best  sailor 

That  sails  upon  the  se.' 


ABOUT  SOME  SONG  STORIES  107 

The  king  has  written  a  braid  letter. 

And  signed  it  wi  his  hand. 
And  sent  it  to  Sir  Patrick  Spence, 

Was  walking  on  the  sand. 

The  first  line  that  Sir  Patrick  red, 

A  loud  lauch  lauched  he; 
The  next  line  that  Sir  Patrick  red. 

The  teir  blinded  his  ee. 

*0  wha  is  this  has  done  this  deed. 

This  ill  deed  don  to  me, 
To  send  me  out  this  time  o'  the  yeir. 

To  sail  upon  the  se? 

*Mak  hast,  mak  hast,  my  merry  men  all. 

Our  guid  schip  sails  the  morne' 
*0h,  say  na  sae,  my  master  deir. 

For  I  feir  a  deadlie  storme. 

'Late,  late  yestreen  I  saw  the  new  moone, 

Wi  the  auld  moone  in  her  arme. 
And  I  feir,  I  feir,  my  deir  master, 

That  we  will  cum  to  harme.' 

O,  our  Scots  nobles  wer  richt  laith 

To  weet  their  cork-heild  schoone; 
Bot  lang  owre  a'  the  play  wer  played 

Thair  hats  they  swam  aboone. 

O  lang,  lang,  may  their  ladies  sit, 

Wi  their  fans  into  their  hand. 
Or  eir  they  see  Sir  Patrick  Spence 

Cum  sailing  to  the  land. 

O  lang,  lang,  may  the  ladies  stand, 

Wi  their  gold  kaims  in  their  hair, 
Waiting  for  their  ain  deir  lords, 

For  they'll  see  them  na  mair. 

Haf  ower,  haf  ower  to  Aberdour, 

It's  fiftie  fadom  deip, 
And  thair  lies  guid  Sir  Patrick  Spence. 

Wi  the  Scots  lords  at  his  feit." 


108  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  now,  just  to  end  this  chapter,  let  me  give  you  one 
more  poem.  It  is  the  earhest  Enghsh  song  that  is  known. 
It  is  a  spring  song,  and  it  is  so  full  of  the  sunny  green  of 
fresh  young  leaves,  and  of  all  the  sights  and  sounds  of 
early  summer,  that  I  think  you  will  like  it. 

"Summer  is  a-coming  in. 
Loud  sing  cuckoo; 
Groweth  seed  and  bloweth  mead. 
And  springeth  the  wood  new. 
Sing  cuckoo! 

Ewe  bleateth  after  lamb, 
Loweth  after  calf  the  cow; 
Bullock  starteth,  buck  verteth,^ 
Merry  sing  cuckoo. 

Cuckoo,  cuckoo,  well  singeth  thou  cuckoo. 
Thou  art  never  silent  now. 
Sing  cuckoo,  now,  sing  cuckoo. 

Sing  cuckoo,  sing  cuckoo,  now !" 

Is  that  not  pretty?  Can  you  not  hear  the  cuckoo 
call,  even  though  the  lamps  may  be  lit  and  the  winter  wind 
be  shrill  without? 

But  I  think  it  is  prettier  still  in  its  thirteenth-century 
English.  Perhaps  you  may  be  able  to  read  it  in  that,  so 
here  it  is: — 

"Sumer  is  ycumen  in, 
Lhude  sing  cuccu; 
Groweth  sed,  and  bloweth  med. 
And  springth  the  wde  nu. 
Sing  cuccu ! 

Awe  bleteth  after  lomb, 
Lhouth  after  calve  cu; 
Bulluc  sterteth,  bucke  verteth, 
Murie  sing  cuccu. 

*  Turns  to  the  green  fern  or  "vert."     Vert  is  French  for  "green." 


ABOUT  SOME  SONG  STORIES  109 

Cuccu,  cuccu,  "vvell  singes  thu  cuccu, 
Ne  swike  tlui  naver  nu. 
Sing  cuccu,  nu,  sing  cuccu. 

Sing  cuccu,  sing  cuccu,  nu!"  -"^ 


BOOKS  TO  READ 

Stories  of  Robin  Hood,  by  II.  E.  Marshall.  Stories  of  the  Ballads,  by  Mary 
Macgregor.  A  Book  of  Ballads,  by  C.  L.  Thomson.  Percy's  Iteliques  of  Ancient 
English  Poetry   (Everyman's  Library). 

*  Ritson's  Ancient  Songs, 


CHAPTER  XIX 

"PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN" 

During  the  long  years  after  the  Norman  Conquest  when 
Enghsh  was  a  despised  language,  it  became  broken  up 
into  many  dialects.  But  as  time  went  on  and  English 
became  once  more  the  language  of  the  educated  as  well 
as  of  the  uneducated,  there  arose  a  cultured  English,  which 
became  the  language  which  we  speak  to-day. 

In  the  time  of  Edward  iii.  England  was  England  again, 
and  the  rulers  were  English  both  in  heart  and  in  name. 
But  England  was  no  longer  a  country  apart,  she  was 
no  longer  a  lonely  sea-girt  island,  but  had  taken  her  place 
among  the  great  countries  of  Europe.  For  the  reign  of 
Edward  iii.  was  a  brilliant  one.  The  knightly,  chivalrous 
King  set  his  country  high  among  the  countries  of  Europe. 
Men  made  songs  and  sang  of  his  victories,  of  Creepy  and  of 
Calais,  and  France  bowed  the  knee  to  England.  But  the 
wars  and  triumphs  of  the  King  pressed  hardly  on  the 
people  of  England,  and  ere  his  reign  was  over  misery, 
pestilence,  and  famine  filled  the  land. 

So  many  men  had  been  killed  in  Edward's  French  and 
Scottish  wars  that  there  were  too  few  left  to  till  the  land. 
Then  came  a  terrible  disease  called  the  Black  Death, 
slaying  young  and  old,  rich  and  poor,  until  nearly  half 
the  people  in  the  land  were  dead. 

Then  fewer  still  were  left  to  do  the  work  of  the  farms. 
Cattle  and  sheep  strayed  where  they  would,  for  there  were 
none  to  tend  them.    Com  ripened  and  rotted  in  the  fields, 

110 


"PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN"  111 

for  there  were  none  to  gather  it.  Food  grew  dear  as 
workers  grew  scarce.  Then  the  field  laborers  who  were 
left  began  to  demand  larger  wages.  Many  of  these  la- 
borers were  little  more  than  slaves,  and  their  masters 
refused  to  pay  them  better.  Then  some  left  their  homes 
and  went  away  to  seek  new  masters  who  would  be  willing 
to  pay  more,  while  others  took  to  a  life  of  wandering 
beggary. 

The  owners  of  the  land  had  thought  that  they  should 
be  ruined  did  they  pay  the  great  wages  demanded  of  them. 
Now  they  saw  that  they  should  be  ruined  quite  as  much 
if  they  could  find  no  one  at  all  to  do  the  work.  So  laws 
were  made  forcing  men  to  work  for  the  same  wages  they 
had  received  before  the  plague,  and  forbidding  them  to 
leave  the  towns  and  villages  in  which  they  had  been  used 
to  live.  If  they  disobeyed  they  were  imprisoned  and  pun- 
ished. 

Yet  these  new  laws  were  broken  again  and  again, 
because  bread  had  now  become  so  dear  that  it  was  im- 
possible for  men  to  live  on  as  little  as  they  had  done  before. 
Still  many  masters  tried  to  enforce  the  law,  and  the  land 
was  soon  filled  not  only  with  hunger  and  misery,  but  with 
a  fierce  class  hatred  between  master  and  man.  It  was  the 
beginning  of  a  long  and  bitter  struggle,  and  as  the  cry  of 
the  poor  grew  louder  and  louder,  the  hatred  and  spirit  of 
revolt  grew  fiercer. 

But  the  great  of  the  land  seemed  little  touched  by  the 
sorrows  of  the  people.  While  they  starved  and  died,  the 
King,  surrounded  by  a  glittering  court,  gave  splendid 
feasts  and  tournaments.  He  built  fair  palaces  and  chapels, 
founded  a  new  round  table,  and  thought  to  make  the 
glorious  days  of  Arthur  live  again. 

And  the  gi-eat  among  the  clergy  cared  as  little  for  the 
poor  as  did  the  great  among  the  nobles.  INIany  of  them 
had  become   selfish   and   worldly,   some   of   them   wicked. 


112  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

though  of  course  there  were  many  good  men  left  among 
them  too. 

The  Church  was  wealthy,  but  the  powerful  priests 
kept  that  wealth  in  their  own  hands,  and  many  of  the 
country  clergy  were  almost  as  miserably  poor  as  the  peo- 
ple whom  they  taught.  And  it  was  through  one  of  these 
poor  priests,  named  William  Langland,  that  the  sorrows 
of  the  people  found  a  voice. 

We  know  very  little  about  Langland.  So  little  do  we 
know  that  we  are  not  sure  if  his  name  was  really  William 
or  not.  But  in  his  poem  called  Tlie  Vision  of  Piers  the 
Ploughvian  he  says,  "I  have  lived  in  the  land,  quoth  I, 
my  name  is  long  Will."  It  is  chiefly  from  his  poem  that 
we  learn  to  know  the  man.  When  we  have  read  it,  we 
seem  to  see  him,  tall  and  thin,  with  lean  earnest  face,  out 
of  which  shine  great  eyes,  the  eyes  that  see  visions.  His 
head  is  shaven  like  a  monk's;  he  wears  a  shabby  long 
gown  which  flaps  in  the  breeze  as  he  strides  along. 

Langland  was  born  in  the  country,  perhaps  in  Oxford- 
shire, perhaj)s  in  Shropshire,  and  he  went  to  school  at 
Great  ^lalvern.     Pie  loved  school,  for  he  says: — 

"For  if  heaven  be  on  earth,  and  ease  to  any  soul, 
It  is  in  cloister  or  in  school.     Be  many  reasons  I  find 
For  in  the  cloister  cometh  no  man,  to  chide  nor  to  fight. 
But  all  is  obedience  here  and  books,  to  read  and  to  learn." 

Perhaps  Langland's  friends  saw  that  he  was  clever, 
and  hoped  that  he  might  become  one  of  the  great  ones  in 
the  Church.  In  those  days  (the  INIiddle  Ages  they  were 
called)  there  was  no  sharp  line  dividing  the  priests  from 
the  people.  The  one  shaded  ofl"  into  the  other,  as  it  were. 
There  were  many  who  wore  long  gowns  and  shaved  their 
heads,  who  yet  were  not  priests.  They  were  called 
clerks,  and  for  a  sum  of  money,  often  very  small,  they 
helped  to  sing  masses  for  the  souls  of  the  dead,  and  per- 


"PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN"  113 

formed  other  offices  in  connection  with  the  services  of  the 
Church.  They  were  bound  by  no  vows  and  were  allowed 
to  marr}^  but  of  course  could  never  hope  to  be  powerful. 
Such  was  Langland;  he  married  and  always  remained  a 
poor  "clerk." 

But  if  Langland  did  not  rise  high  in  the  Church,  he 
made  himself  famous  in  another  way,  for  he  wrote  Piers  the 
Ploughman.  This  is  a  great  book.  There  is  no  other 
written  during  the  fourteenth  century,  in  which  we  see  so 
clearly  the  life   of  the   people   of  the   time. 

There  are  several  versions  of  Piers,  and  it  is  thought 
by  some  that  Langland  himself  wrote  and  re-wrote  his 
poem,  trying  always  to  make  it  better.  But  others  think 
that  some  one  else  wrote  the  later  versions. 

The  poem  is  divided  into  parts.  The  first  part  is 
The  Vision  of  Piers  the  Ploughman,  the  second  is  The 
Vision  Concerning  Do  Well,  Do  Bet,  Do  Best. 

In  the  beginning  of  Piers  the  Ploughman  Langland 
tells  us  how 

"In  a  summer  season  when  soft  was  the  sun, 
I  wrapped  myself  in  a  cloak  as  if  I  were  a  shepherd 
In  the  habit  of  a  hermit  unholy  of  works, 
Abroad  I  wandered  in  this  world  wonders  to  hear. 
But  on  a  INIay  morning  on  Malvern  Hills 
Me  befell  a  wonder,  a  strange  thing.     IMethought, 
I  was  weary  of  wandering,  and  went  me  to  rest 
Under  a  broad  bank  by  a  burn  side. 
And  as  I  lay,  and  leaned,  and  looked  on  the  waters 
I  slumbered  in  a  sleeping  it  sounded  so  merry." 

If  you  will  look  back  you  will  see  that  this  poetry  is 
very  much  more  like  Layamon's  than  like  the  poetry  of 
Havelok  the  Dane.  Although  people  had,  for  many 
years,  been  writing  rhyming  verse,  Langland  has,  you  see, 
gone  back  to  the  old  alliterative  poetry.  Perhaps  it 
was  that,  living  far  away  in  the  country,  Langland  had 


114  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

written  his  poem  before  he  had  heard  of  the  new  kind  of 
rhyming  verses,  for  news  traveled  slowly  in  those  days. 
Two  hundred  years  later,  when  The  Vision  of  Piers 
the  Ploughman  was  first  printed,  the  printer  in  his  preface 
explained  alliterative  verse  very  well.  "Langland  wrote 
altogether  in  metre,"  he  says,  "but  not  after  the  manner 
of  our  rimers  that  write  nowadays  (for  his  verses  end  not 
alike),  but  the  nature  of  his  metres  is  to  have  three  words, 
at  the  least,  in  every  verse  which  begin  with  some  one 
letter.  As  for  example  the  first  two  verses  of  the  book 
run  upon  's,'  as  thus: 

'In  a  corner  season  whan  sette  was  the  *unne 
I  *hope  me  into  jhrobbes  as  I  a  shape  were.' 

The  next  runneth  upon  'H,'  as  thus: 

'In  /tabite  as  an  i/ermite  un/ioly  of  workes.' 

This  thing  being  noted,  the  metre  shall  be  very  pleasant  to 
read.  The  English  is  according  to  the  time  it  was  written 
in,  and  the  sense  somewhat  dark,  but  not  so  hard  but  that 
it  majr  be  understood  of  such  as  will  not  stick  to  break  the 
shell  of  the  nut  for  the  kernel's  sake." 

This  printer  also  says  in  his  preface  that  the  book  was 
first  written  in  the  time  of  King  Edward  iii.,  "In  whose 
time  it  pleased  God  to  open  the  eyes  of  many  to  see  his 
truth,  giving  them  boldness  of  heart  to  open  their  mouths 
and  cry  out  against  the  works  of  darkness.  .  .  .  There 
is  no  manner  of  vice  that  reigneth  in  any  estate  of  man 
which  this  writer  hath  not  godly,  learnedly,  and  wittily 
rebuked."  ^ 

I  hope  that  you  will  be  among  those  who  will  not  "stick 
to  break  the  shell  of  the  nut  for  the  kernel's  sake,"  and 
that  although  the  "sense  be  somewhat  dark"  you  will 
some  day  read  the  book  for  yourselves.  IMeantime  in  the 
next  chapter  I  will  tell  you  a  little  more  about  it. 

*  R.  Crowley  in  his  preface  to  Piers  Ploughman,  printed  in  1550. 


CHAPTER  XX 

"PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN"— confinwed 

When  Langland  fell  asleep  upon  the  Malvern  Hills  he 
dreamed  a  wondrous  dream.  He  thought  that  he  saw  a 
"fair  field  full  of  folk,"  where  was  gathered  "all  the  wealtli 
of  the   world   and   the   woe   both." 

"Working  and  wondering  as  the  world  asketh, 
Some  put  them  to  the  plough  and  played  them  full  seldom. 
In  eareing  and  sowing  laboured  full  hard." 

But  some  are  gluttons  and  others  think  only  of  fine  clothes. 
Some  pray  and  others  jest.  There  are  rogues  and  knaves 
here,  friars  and  priests,  barons  and  burgesses,  bakers  and 
butchers,  tailors  and  tanners,  masons  and  miners,  and  folk 
of  many  other  crafts.  Indeed,  the  field  is  the  world.  It 
lies  between  a  tower  and  a  dungeon.  The  tower  is  God, 
the  dungeon  is  the  dwelling  of  the  Evil  One. 
Then,  as  Langland  looked  on  all  this,  he  saw 

"A  lady  lovely  in  face,  in  linnen  i-clothed, 
Come  adown  from  the  cliff  and  spake  me  fair, 
And  said,  'Son,  sleepest  thou?     Seest  thou  this  people 
All  how  busy  they  be  about  the  mazer'  " 

Langland  was  "afeard  of  her  face  though  she  was  fair." 
But  the  lovely  lady,  who  is  Holy  Church,  speaks  gently  to 
the  dreamer.  She  tells  him  that  the  tower  is  the  dwelling 
of  Truth,  who  is  the  lord  of  all  and  who  gives  to  each  as  he 
hath  need.     The  dungeon  is  the  castle  of  Care. 

"Therein  liveth  a  wight  that  Wrong  is  called. 
The  Father  of  Falseness." 
115 


116  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Love  alone,  said  the  lady,  leads  to  Heaven, 

"Therefore  I  warn  ye,  the  rich,  have  ruth  on  the  poor, 
'^hough  ye  be  mighty  in  councils,  be  meek  in  your  works, 
For  the  same  measure  ye  meet,  amiss  or  otherwise. 
Ye  shall  be  weighed  therewith  when  ye  wend  hence." 

"Truth  is  best  in  all  things,"  she  said  at  length.  "I 
have  told  thee  now  what  Truth  is,  and  may  no  longer 
linger."  And  so  she  made  ready  to  go.  But  the  dreamer 
kneeled  on  his  knees  and  prayed  her  stay  yet  a  while  to 
teach  him  to  know  Falsehood  also,  as  well  as  Truth. 

And  the  lady  answered: — 

"  'Look  on  thy  left  hand  and  see  where  he  standeth, 
Both  False  and  Flattery  and  all  his  train.' 
I  looked  on  the  left  hand  as  the  Lady  me  taught. 
Then  was  I  ware  of  a  woman  wondrously  clothed, 
Purfled  with  fur,  the  richest  on  earth. 
Crowned  with  a  crown.     The  King  hath  no  better. 
All  her  five  fingers  were  fretted  with  rings 
Of  the  most  precious  stones  that  a  prince  ever  wore; 
In  red  scarlet  she  rode,  beribboned  with  gold. 
There  is  no  queen  alive  that  is  more  adorned." 

This  was  Lady  ]Meed  or  Bribery.  "To-morrow,"  said 
Holy  Church,  "she  shall  wed  with  False."  And  so  the 
lovely  Lady  departed. 

Left  alone  the  dreamer  watched  the  preparations  for 
the  wedding.  The  Earldom  of  Env}^,  the  Kingdom  of 
Covetousness,  the  Isle  of  Usury  were  granted  as  marriage 
gifts  to  the  pair.  But  Theology  was  angry.  He  would  not 
permit  the  wedding  to  take  place.  "Ere  this  wedding  be 
wrought,  woe  betide  thee,"  he  cried.  "Meed  is  wealthy; 
I  know  it.  God  grant  us  to  give  her  unto  whom  Truth 
wills.  But  thou  hast  bound  her  fast  to  Falseness.  ]Meed  is 
gently  born.  Lead  her  therefore  to  London,  and  there 
see  if  the  law  allows  this  wedding." 

So,  listening  to  the  advice  of  Theologj^  all  the  company 
rode  off  to   London,   Guile  leading  the   way. 


*ii 


'LANGLAND    DREAMED   A   WONDROUS    DREAM. 


"PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN"  117 

But  Soothness  pricked  on  his  palfrey  and  passed  them 
all  and  came  to  the  King's  court,  where  he  told  Conscience 
all  ahout  the  matter,  and  Conscience  told  the  King. 

Then  quoth  the  King,  "If  I  might  catch  False  and 
Flattery  or  any  of  their  masters,  I  would  avenge  me  on  the 
wretches  that  work  so  ill,  and  would  hang  them  by  the 
neck  and  all  that  them  abet." 

So  he  told  the  Constable  to  seize  False  and  to  cut  off 
Guile's  head,  "and  let  not  Liar  escape."  But  Dread  was  at 
the  door  and  heard  the  doom.  He  warned  the  others,  so 
that   they   all   fled   away   save   Meed   the   maiden. 

"Save  Meed  the  maiden  no  man  durst  abide^ 
And  truly  to  tell  she  trembled  for  fear. 
And  she  wept  and  wrung  her  hands  when  she  was  taken." 

But  the  King  called  a  Clerk  and  told  him  to  comfort 
Meed.  So  Justice  soon  hurried  to  her  bower  to  com- 
fort her  kindly,  and  many  others  followed  him.  JMeed 
thanked  them  all  and  "gave  them  cups  of  clean  gold  and 
pieces  of  silver,  rings  w^th  rubies  and  riches  enough."  And 
pretending  to  be  sorry  for  all  that  she  had  done  amiss. 
Meed  confessed  her  sins  and  was  forgiven. 

The  King  then,  believing  that  she  was  really  sorry, 
wished  to  marry  her  to  Conscience.  But  Conscience  would 
not  have  her,  for  he  knew  that  she  was  wicked.  He  tells 
of  all  the  evil  things  she  does,  by  which  Langland  means 
to  show  what  wicked  things  men  will  do  if  tempted  by 
bribery  and  the  hope  of  gain. 

"Then  mourned  JMecd  and  plained  her  to  the  King." 
If  men  did  great  and  noble  deeds,  she  said,  they  deserved 
praise  and  thanks  and  rewards. 

"  'Nay/  quoth  Conscience  to  the  King,  and  kneeled  to  the  ground, 
'There  be  two  manner  of  ]\Iecds,  my  Lord,  bj'^  thy  life, 
That  one  the  good  God  givetli  by  His  grace,  giveth  in  His  bliss 
To  them  that  will  work  while  that  they  are  here.'  " 


118  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

What  a  laborer  received,  he  said,  was  not  Meed  but 
just  Wages.  Bribery,  on  the  other  hand,  was  ever  wicked, 
and  he  would  have  none  of  her. 

In  spite  of  all  the  talk,  however,  no  one  could  settle  the 
question.  So  at  length  Conscience  set  forth  to  bring 
Reason  to  decide. 

When  Reason  heard  that  he  was  wanted,  he  saddled 
his  horse  SufFer-till-I-see-my-time  and  came  to  court  with 
Wit   and   Wisdom   in  his   train. 

The  King  received  him  kindly,  and  they  talked  together. 
But  while  they  talked  Peace  came  complaining  that  Wrong 
had  stolen  his  goods  and  ill-treated  him  in  many  ways. 

Wrong  well  knew  that  the  complaint  was  just,  but  with 
the  help  of  Meed  he  won  Wit  and  Wisdom  to  his  side. 
But  Reason  stood  out  against  him. 

"  'Counsel  me  not,'  quoth  Reason,  'ruth  to  have 
Till  lords  and  ladies  all  love  truth 
And  their  sumptuous  garments  be  put  into  chests, 
Till  spoiled  children  be  chastened  with  rods, 
Till  clerks  and  knights  be  courteous  with  their  tongues. 
Till  priests  themselves  practise  their  preaching 
And  their  deeds  be  such  as  may  draw  us  to  goodness.'  " 

The  King  acknowledged  that  Reason  was  right,  and 
begged  him  to  stay  with  him  always  and  help  him  to  rule. 
"I  am  ready,"  quoth  Reason,  "to  rest  with  thee  ever  so 
that    Conscience   be   our   counsellor." 

To  that  the  King  agreed,  and  he  and  his  courtiers  all 
went  to  church.  Here  suddenly  the  dream  ends.  Langland 
cries : — 

"Then  waked  I  of  my  sleep.     I  was  woe  withal 
That  I  had  not  slept  more  soundly  and  seen  much  more." 

The  dreamer  arose  and  continued  his  wandering.  But 
he  had  only  gone  a  few  steps  when  once  again  he  sank  upon 
the  grass,  and  fell  asleep  and  dreamed.  Again  he  saw  the 
field  full  of  folk,  and  to  them  now  Conscience  was  preaching, 


"PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN"  119 

and  at  his  words  many  began  to  repent  them  of  their  evil 
deeds.  Pride,  Envy,  Sloth  and  others  confessed  their  sins 
and  received  forgiveness. 

Then  all  these  penitent  folk  set  forth  in  search  of  Saint 
Truth,  some  riding,  some  walking.  "But  there  were  few 
there  so  wise  as  to  know  the  way  thither,  and  they  went  all 
amiss."  No  man  could  tell  them  where  Saint  Truth  lived. 
And  now  appears  at  last  Piers  Plowman,  who  gives  his 
name   to   the   whole   poem. 

"Quoth  a  ploughman  and  put  forth  his  head, 
I  know  him  as  well  as  a  clerk  knows  his  books. 
Clear  Conscience  and  Wit  showed  me  his  place 
And  did  engage  me  since  to  serve  him  ever. 
Both  in  sowing  and  setting,  which  I  labour, 
I  have  been  his  man  this  fifteen  winters." 

Piers  described  to  the  pilgrims  all  the  long  way  that 
they  must  go  in  order  to  find  Truth.  He  told  them  that 
they  must  go  through  JNIeekness;  that  they  must  cross 
the  ford  Honor-your-father  and  turn  aside  from  the  brook 
Bear-no-false-witness,  and  so  on  and  on  until  they  come 
at  last  to  Saint  Truth. 

"It  were  a  hard  road  unless  we  had  a  guide  that  might 
go  with  us  afoot  until  we  got  there,"  said  the  pilgrims.  So 
Piers  offered,  if  they  would  wait  until  he  had  plowed  his 
field,  to  go  with  them  and  show  them  the  way. 

"That  would  be  a  long  time  to  wait,"  said  a  lady. 
"What  could  we  women  do  meantime?" 

And    Piers    answered : — 

"Some  should  sew  sacks  to  hold  wheat. 
And  you  who  have  wool  weave  it  fast. 
Spin  it  speedily,  spare  not  your  fingers 
Unless  it  be  a  holy  day  or  holy  eve. 
Look  out  your  linen  and  work  on  it  quickly, 
The  needy  and  the  naked  take  care  how  they  live. 
And  cast  on  them  clothes  for  the  cold,  for  so  Truth  desires." 


120  ENGLISH  LITEPtATURE 

Then  many  of  the  pilgrims  began  to  help  Piers  with  his 
work.  Each  man  did  what  he  could,  "and  some  to  please 
Piers  picked  up  the  weeds." 

"But  some  of  them  sat  and  sang  at  ale 
And  helped  him  to  plough  with  'Hy-trolly-lolly.'  " 

To  these  idle  ones  Piers  went  in  anger.  "If  ye  do  not 
run  quickly  to  your  work,"  he  cried,  "you  will  receive  no 
wage;  and  if  ye  die  of  hunger,  who  will  care." 

Then  these  idle  ones  began  to  pretend  that  they  were 
blind  or  lame  and  could  not  work.  They  made  great  moan, 
but  Piers  took  no  heed  and  called  for  Hunger.  Then 
Hunger  seized  the  idle  ones  and  beat  and  buffeted  them 
until  they  were  glad  to  work. 

At  last  Truth  heard  of  Piers  and  of  all  the  good  that  he 
was  doing  among  the  pilgrims,  and  sent  him  a  pardon  for  all 
his  sins.  In  those  days  people  who  had  done  wrong  used 
to  paj^  money  to  a  priest  and  think  that  they  were  forgiven 
by  God.  Against  that  belief  Langland  preaches,  and  his 
pardon  is  something  different.     It  is  only 

"Do  well  and  have  well,  and  God  shall  have  thy  soul. 
And  do  evil  and  have  evil,  hope  none  other 
That  after  thy  death  day  thou  shalt  turn  to  the  Evil  One." 

And  over  this  pardon  a  priest  and  Piers  began  so  loudly 
to  dispute  that  the  dreamer  awoke, 

"And  saw  the  sun  that  time  towards  the  south. 
And  I  meatless  and  moneyless  upon  the  Malvern  Hills." 

That  is  a  little  of  the  story  of  the  first  part  of  Piers 
Ploughman.  It  is  an  allegory,  and  in  writing  it  Langland 
wished  to  hold  up  to  scorn  all  the  wickedness  that  he  saw 
around  him,  and  sharply  to  point  out  manj^  causes  of 
misery.  There  is  laughter  in  his  poem,  but  it  is  the  terrible 
and  harsh  laughter  of  contempt.  His  most  bitter  words, 
perhaps,  are  for  the  idle  rich,  but  the  idle  poor  do  not 


"PIERS  THE  PLOUGHMAN"  121 

escape.  Those  who  beg  without  shame,  who  cheat  and 
steal,  who  are  greedy  and  drunken  have  a  share  of  his 
wrath.  Yet  Langland  is  not  all  harshness.  His  great 
word  is  Duty,  but  he  speaks  of  Love  too.  "Learn  to  love, 
quoth  Kind,  and  leave  off  all  other."  The  poem  is  ram- 
bling and  disconnected.  Characters  come  on  the  scene  and 
vanish  again  without  cause.  Stories  begin  and  do  not 
end.  It  is  all  wild  and  improbable  like  a  dream,  yet  it  is 
full   of  interest. 

But  perhaps  the  chief  interest  and  value  of  Piers 
Ploughman  is  that  it  is  history.  It  tells  us  much  of  what 
the  people  thought  and  of  how  they  lived  in  those  days. 
It  shows  us  the  first  mutterings  of  the  storm  that  was  to 
rend  the  world.  This  was  the  storm  of  the  Reformation 
which  was  to  divide  the  world  into  Protestant  and  Catholic. 
But  Langland  himself  was  not  a  Protestant.  Although  he 
speaks  bitter  words  against  the  evil  deeds  of  priest  and 
monk,  he  does  not  attack  the  Church.  To  him  she  is  still 
Holy  Church,  a  radiant  and  lovely  lady. 

BOOK  TO  READ 

The  Vision  of  Piers  Ploughman,  by  W.  Langland,  done  into  modern  English  by 
Professor  Skeat. 


CHAPTER  XXI 

HOW  THE  BIBLE  CAME  TO  THE  PEOPLE 

In  all  the  land  there  is  perhaps  no  book  so  common  as  the 
Bible.  In  homes  where  there  are  no  other  books  we  find 
at  least  a  Bible,  and  the  Bible  stories  are  almost  the  first 
that  we  learn  to  know. 

But  in  the  fourteenth  centurj^  there  were  no  English 
Bibles.  The  priests  and  clergy  and  a  few  great  people 
perhaps  had  Latin  Bibles.  And  although  Caedmon's  songs 
had  long  been  forgotten,  at  diff'erent  times  some 
parts  of  the  Bible  had  been  translated  into  English,  so 
that  the  common  people  sometimes  heard  a  Bible  story. 
But  an  English  Bible  as  a  whole  did  not  exist;  and  if 
to-day  it  is  the  commonest  and  cheapest  book  in  all  the 
land,  it  is  to  John  Wyclif  in  the  first  place  that  we  owe  it. 

John  Wyclif  was  bom,  it  is  thought,  about  1324  in  a 
little  Yorkshire  village.  Not  much  is  known  of  his  early 
days  except  that  he  went  to  school  and  to  Oxford  Uni- 
versity. In  time  he  became  one  of  the  most  learned  men 
of  his  day,  and  was  made  Head,  or  Master,  of  Balliol 
College. 

This  is  the  first  time  in  this  book  that  we  have  heard 
of  a  university.  The  monasteries  had,  until  now,  been  the 
centers  of  learning.  But  now  the  two  great  universities  of 
Oxford  and  Cambridge  were  taking  their  place.  JMen  no 
longer  went  to  the  monasteries  to  learn,  but  to  the  uni- 
versities; and  this  was  one  reason,  perhaps,  why  the  land 
had    become    filled    with    so    many    idle    monks.      Their 

122 


HOW  THE  BIBLE  CAME  TO  THE  PEOPLE     123 

profession  of  teaching  had  been  taken  from  them,  and 
they  had  found  nothing  else  with  which  to  fill  their 
time. 

But  at  first  the  universities  were  very  like  monasteries. 
The  clerks,  as  the  students  were  called,  often  took  some 
kind  of  vow, — they  wore  a  gown  and  shaved  their  heads  in 
some  fashion  or  other.  The  colleges,  too,  were  built  very 
much  after  the  style  of  monasteries,  as  may  be  seen  in  some 
of  the  old  college  buildings  of  Oxford  or  Cambridge  to  this 
day.  The  life  in  every  way  was  like  the  life  in  a  monastery. 
It  was  only  by  slow  degrees  that  the  life  and  the  teaching 
grew  away  from  the  old  model. 

While  Wyclif  grew  to  be  a  man,  England  had  fallen  on 
troublous  times.  Edward  iii.,  worn  out  by  his  French 
wars,  had  become  old  and  feeble,  and  the  power  was  in  the 
hands  of  his  son,  John  of  Gaunt.  The  French  wars  and 
the  Black  Death  had  slain  many  of  the  people,  and  those 
who  remained  were  miserably  poor.  Yet  poor  though 
they  were,  much  money  was  gathered  from  them  every 
year  and  sent  to  the  Pope,  who  at  that  time  still  ruled  the 
Church  in  England  as  elsewhere. 

But  now  the  people  of  England  became  very  unwilling 
to  pay  so  much  money  to  the  Pope,  especially  as  at  this 
time  he  was  a  Frenchman  ruling,  not  from  Rome,  but  from 
Avignon.  It  was  folly.  Englishmen  said,  to  pay  money 
into  the  hands  of  a  Frenchman,  the  enemy  of  their  country, 
who  would  use  it  against  their  country.  And  while  many 
people  were  feeling  like  this,  the  Pope  claimed  still  more. 
He  now  claimed  a  tribute  which  King  John  had  promised 
long  before,  but  which  had  not  for  more  than  thirty 
years  been  paid. 

John  of  Gaunt  made  up  his  mind  to  resist  this  claim, 
and  John  Wyclif,  who  had  already  begun  to  preach  against 
the  power  of  the  Pope,  heli^ed  him.  They  were  strange 
companions,   and   while   John   of   Gaunt   fought   only   for 


124  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

more  power,  Wyclif  fought  for  freedom  both  in  rehgion 
and  in  life.  God  alone  was  lord  of  all  the  world,  he  said, 
and  to  God  alone  each  man  must  answer  for  his  soul,  and 
to  no  man  beside.  The  money  belonging  to  the  Church  of 
England  belonged  to  God  and  to  the  people  of  England, 
and  ought  to  be  used  for  the  good  of  the  people,  and  not  be 
sent  abroad  to  the  Pope.  In  those  days  it  needed  a  bold 
man  to  use  such  words,  and  Wyclif  was  soon  called  upon 
to  answer  for  his  boldness  before  the  Archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury   and    all    his    bishops. 

The  council  was  held  in  St.  Paul's  Cathedral  in  London. 
Wyclif  was  fearless,  and  he  obeyed  the  Archbishop's  com- 
mand. But  as  he  walked  up  the  long  aisle  to  the  chapel 
where  the  bishops  were  gathered,  John  of  Gaunt  marched 
by  his  side,  and  Lord  Percy,  Earl  IMarshal  of  England, 
cleared  a  way  for  him  through  the  throng  of  people 
that  filled  the  church.  The  press  was  great,  and  Earl 
Percy  drove  a  way  through  the  crowd  with  so  much  haugh- 
tiness and  violence  that  the  Bishop  of  London  cried  out 
at   him   in   wrath. 

"Had  I  known  what  masteries  you  would  use  in  my 
church,"  he  said,   "I  had  kept  you  from   coming  there." 

"At  which  words  the  Duke,  disdaining  not  a  little, 
ansv/ered  the  Bishop  and  said  that  he  would  keep  such 
mastery  there  though  he  said  'Nay.'  "  ^  Thus,  after  much 
struggling,  Wyclif  and  his  companions  arrived  at  the 
chapel.  There  Wyclif  stood  humbly  enough  before  his 
Bishop.  But  Earl  Per^y  bade  him  be  seated,  for  as  he  had 
much  to  answer  he  had  need  of  a  soft  seat. 

Thereat  the  Bishop  of  London  was  angry  again,  and 
cried  out  saying  that  it  was  not  the  custom  for  those  who 
had  come  to  answer  for  their  misdeeds  to  sit. 

"Upon  these  words  a  fire  began  to  heat  and  kindle 
between    them;    insomuch    that    they    began    to    rate    and 

^  Foxe,  Acts  and  Monuments. 


HOW  THE  BIBLE  CAME  TO  THE  PEOPLE     125 

revile  one  the  other,  that  the  whole  multitude  therewith 
disquieted   began   to   be   set   on   a  hurry."  ^ 

The  Duke,  too,  joined  in,  threatening  at  last  to  drag 
the  Bishop  out  of  the  church  by  the  hair  of  his  head. 
But  the  Londoners,  when  thej^  heard  that,  were  very 
wrathful,  for  they  hated  the  Duke.  They  cried  out  they 
would  not  suffer  their  Bishop  to  be  ill-used,  and  the  uproar 
became  so  great  that  the  council  broke  up  without  there 
being  any  trial  at  all. 

But  soon  after  this  no  fewer  than  five  Bulls,  or  letters 
from  the  Pope,  were  sent  against  Wyclif.  In  one  the 
University  of  Oxford  was  ordered  to  imprison  him;  in 
others  Wyclif  was  ordered  to  appear  before  the  Pope;  in 
still  another  the  English  bishops  were  ordered  to  arrest 
him  and  try  him  themselves.  But  little  was  done,  for  the 
English  would  not  imprison  an  English  subject  at  the 
bidding  of  a  French  Pope,  lest  they  should  seem  to  give 
him  royal  power  in  England. 

At  length,  however,  Wyclif  was  once  more  brought 
before  a  court  of  bishops  in  London.  B^^  this  time  Ed- 
ward III.  had  died,  and  Richard,  the  young  son  of  the 
Black  Prince,  had  come  to  the  throne.  His  mother,  the 
Princess  of  Wales,  was  Wyclif's  friend,  and  she  now  sent 
a  message  to  the  bishops  bidding  them  let  him  alone. 
This  time,  too,  the  people  of  London  were  on  his  side; 
they  had  learned  to  understand  that  he  was  their  friend. 
So  the}^  burst  into  the  council-room  eager  to  defend  the 
man  whose  only  crime  was  that  of  trying  to  protect 
England  from  being  robbed.  And  thus  the  second  trial 
came  to  an  end  as  the  first  had  done. 

Wyclif  now  began  to  preach  more  boldly  than  before. 
He  preached  many  things  that  were  very  different  from 
the  teaching  of  the  Church  of  Rome,  and  as  he  was  one 
of  the  most  learned  men  of  his  time,  people  crowded  to 

*  Foxe,  Acts  and  Monuments. 


126  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Oxford  to  hear  him.  John  of  Gaunt,  now  no  longer  his 
friend,  ordered  him  to  be  silent.  But  Wyclif  still  spoke. 
The  University  was  ordered  to  crush  the  heretic.  But 
the  University  stood  by  him  until  the  King  added  his 
orders  to  those  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Then 
Wyclif  was  expelled  from  the  University,  but  still  not 
silenced,  for  he  went  into  the  country  and  there  wrote  and 
taught. 

Soon  his  followers  grew  in  numbers.  They  were  called 
Poor  Priests,  and  clad  in  long  brown  robes  they  wandered 
on  foot  through  the  towns  and  villages  teaching  and 
preaching.  Wyclif  trusted  that  they  would  do  all  the  good 
that  the  old  friars  had  done,  and  that  they  would  be  kept 
from  falling  into  the  evil  ways  of  the  later  friars.  But 
Churchmen  were  angry,  and  called  his  followers  Lollards  or 
idle  babblers. 

Wyclif,  however,  cared  no  longer  for  the  great,  he 
trusted  no  more  in  them.  It  was  to  the  people  now  that 
he  appealed.  He  wrote  many  books,  and  at  first  he  wrote 
in  Latin.  But  by  degrees  he  s'aw  that  if  he  wanted  to 
reach  the  hearts  of  the  people,  he  must  preach  and  teach  in 
English.  And  so  he  began  to  write  English  books.  But 
above  all  the  things  that  he  wrote  we  remember  him  chiefly 
for  his  translation  of  the  Bible.  He  himself  translated 
the  Xew  Testament,  and  others  helped  him  with  the  Old 
Testament,  and  so  for  the  first  time  the  people  of  England 
had  the  whole  Bible  in  their  own  tongue.  They  had  it,  too, 
in  fine  scholarly  language,  and  this  was  a  great  service  to 
our  literature.  For  naturally  the  Bible  was  a  book  which 
every  one  wished  to  know,  and  the  people  of  England, 
through  it,  became  accustomed  to  use  fine  stately  language. 

To  his  life's  end  Wyclif  went  on  teaching  and  writing, 
although  many  attempts  were  made  to  silence  him.  At 
last  in  1384  the  Pope  summoned  him  to  Rome.  Wyclif 
did  not  obey,  for  he  answered  another  call.     One  day,  as 


'EXPELLED   FROM   THE   UNIVERSITY,   WYCLIF   WENT   INTO   THE    COUNTRY   AND 
THERE   WROTE   AND  TAUGHT.' 


HOW  THE  BIBLE  CAME  TO  THE  PEOPLE     127 

he  heard  mass  in  his  own  church,  he  fell  forward  speechless. 
He  never  spoke  again,  but  died  three  days  later. 

After  Wj^clif's  death  his  followers  were  gradually 
crushed  out,  and  the  Lollards  disappear  from  our  history. 
But  his  teaching  never  quite  died,  for  by  giving  the  Eng- 
lish people  the  Bible  Wyclif  left  a  lasting  mark  on  Eng- 
land; and  although  the  Reformation  did  not  come  until 
two  hundred  years  later,  he  may  be  looked  upon  as  its 
forerunner. 

It  is  hard  to  explain  all  that  William  Langland  and 
John  Wyclif  stand  for  in  English  literature  and  in  English 
history.  It  was  the  evil  that  they  saw  around  them  that 
made  them  write  and  speak  as  they  did,  and  it  was  their 
speaking  and  writing,  perhaps,  that  gave  the  people  cour- 
age to  rise  against  oppression.  Thus  their  teaching 
and  writing  mark  the  beginning  of  new  life  to  the  great 
mass  of  the  people  of  England.  For  in  June,  1381,  while 
John  Wyclif  still  lived  and  wrote,  Wat  Tyler  led  his  men 
to  Blackheath  in  a  rebellion  which  proved  to  be  the  begin- 
ning of  freedom  for  the  workers  of  England.  And  al- 
though at  first  sight  there  seems  to  be  no  connection  be- 
tween the  two,  it  was  the  same  spirit  working  in  John 
Wyclif  and  Wat  Tyler  that  made  the  one  speak  and  the 
other  fight  as  he  did. 


CHAPTER  XXII 

CHAUCER— BREAD  AND   MILK  FOR  CHILDREN 

To-day,  as  we  walk  about  the  streets  and  watch  the  people 
hurry  to  and  fro,  we  cannot  tell  from  the  dress  they  wear 
to  what  class  they  belong.  We  cannot  tell  among  the  men 
who  pass  us,  all  clad  alike  in  dull,  sad-colored  clothes, 
who  is  a  knight  and  who  a  merchant,  who  a  shoemaker  and 
who  a  baker.  If  we  see  them  in  their  shops  we  can  still 
tell,  perhaps,  for  we  know  that  a  butcher  always  wears  a 
blue  apron,  and  a  baker  a  white  hat.  These  are  but  the 
remains  of  a  time  long  ago  when  every  one  dressed  accord- 
ing to  his  calling,  whether  at  work  or  not.  It  was  easy 
then  to  tell  by  the  cut  and  texture  of  his  clothes  to  what 
rank  in  life  a  man  belonged,  for  each  dressed  accordingly, 
and  only  the  great  might  wear  silk  and  velvet  and  golden 
ornaments. 

And  in  the  time  of  which  we  have  been  reading,  in  the 
England  where  Edward  iii.  and  Richard  ii.  ruled,  where 
Langland  sadly  dreamed  and  Wyclif  boldly  wrote  and 
preached,  there  lived  a  man  who  has  left  for  us  a  clear 
and  truthful  picture  of  those  times.  He  has  left  a  picture 
so  vivid  that  as  we  read  his  words  the  people  of  England 
of  the  fourteenth  century  still  seem  to  us  to  live.  This 
man  was  Geoffrey  Chaucer.  Chaucer  was  a  poet,  and  is 
generally  looked  upon  as  the  first  great  English  poet. 
Like  Caedmon  he  is  called  the  "Father  of  English  Poetry," 
and  each  has  a  right  to  the  name.  For  if  Caedmon  was 
the  first  great  poet  of  the  English  people  in  their  new 

128 


BREAD  AND  MILK  FOR  CHILDREN     129 

home  of  England,  the  language  he  used  was  Anglo-Saxon. 
The  language  which  Chaucer  used  was  English,  though  still 
not  quite  the  English  which  we  use  to-day. 

But  although  Chaucer  was  a  great  poet,  we  know  very 
little  about  his  Hfe.  What  we  do  know  has  nothing  to  do 
with  his  poems  or  of  how  he  wrote  them.  For  in  those 
days,  and  for  long  after,  a  writer  was  not  expected  to  live 
by  his  writing;  but  in  return  for  giving  to  the  world 
beautiful  thoughts,  beautiful  songs,  the  King  or  some  great 
noble  would  reward  him  by  giving  him  a  post  at  court. 
About  this  public  life  of  Chaucer  we  have  a  few  facts. 
But  it  is  difficult  at  times  to  fit  the  man  of  camp,  and  court, 
and  counting-house  to  the  poet  and  story-teller  who 
possessed  a  wealth  of  words  and  a  knowledge  of  how  to 
use  them  greater  than  any  Englishman  who  had  lived 
before  him.  And  it  is  rather  through  his  works  than 
through  the  scanty  facts  of  his  life  that  we  learn  to  know 
the  real  man,  full  of  shrewd  knowledge  of  the  world,  of 
humor,  kindliness,  and  cheerful  courage. 

Chaucer  was  a  man  of  the  middle  class.  His  father, 
John  Chaucer,  was  a  London  wine  merchant.  The  family 
very  likely  came  at  first  from  France,  and  the  name  may 
mean  shoemaker,  from  an  old  Norman  word  chauder  or 
cJiaussier,  a  shoemaker.  And  although  the  French  word 
for  shoemaker  is  different  now,  there  is  still  a  slang  word 
chausseut\  meaning  a  cobbler. 

We  know  nothing  at  all  of  Chaucer  as  a  boy,  nothing  of 
where  he  went  to  school,  nor  do  we  know  if  he  ever  went  to 
college.  The  first  thing  we  hear  of  him  is  that  he  was  a 
page  in  the  house  of  the  Princess  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of 
Prince  Lionel,  who  was  the  third  son  of  Edward  iii.  So, 
although  Chaucer  belonged  to  the  middle  class,  he  must 
have  had  some  powerful  friend  able  to  get  him  a  place  in  a 
great  household. 

In  those  days  a  boy  became  a  page  in  a  great  household 


130  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

very  much  as  he  might  now  become  an  office-boy  in  a  large 
merchant's  office.  A  page  had  many  duties.  He  had  to 
wait  at  table,  hold  candles,  go  messages,  and  do  manj^ 
other  little  household  services.  Such  a  post  seems  strange 
to  us  now,  yet  it  was  perhaps  quite  as  interesting  as  sitting 
all  day  long  on  an  office  stool.  In  time  of  war  it  was 
certainly  more  exciting,  for  a  page  had  often  to  follow 
his  master  to  the  battlefield.  And  as  a  war  with  France 
was  begun  in  1359,  Geoffrey  went  across  the  Channel  with 
his  prince. 

Of  what  befell  Chaucer  in  France  we  know  nothing, 
except  that  he  was  taken  prisoner,  and  that  the  King, 
Edward  iii.,  himself  gave  £16  towards  his  ransom.  That 
sounds  a  small  sum,  but  it  meant  as  much  as  £240  would 
now.  So  it  would  seem  that,  boy  though  he  was,  Geoffrey 
Chaucer  had  already  become  important.  Perhaps  he  was 
already  known  as  a  poet  and  a  good  story-teller  whom  the 
King  was  loth  to  lose.  But  again  for  seven  years  after 
this  we  hear  nothing  more  about  him.  And  when  next 
we  do  hear  of  him,  he  is  valet  de  chamhre  in  the  household 
of  Edward  iii.  Then  a  few  years  later  he  married  one  of 
Queen  Philippa's  maids-in-waiting. 

Of  Chaucer's  life  with  his  wife  and  family  again  we 
know  nothing,  except  that  he  had  at  least  one  son,  named 
Lewis,  We  know  this  because  he  wrote  a  book,  called  A 
Treatise  on  the  Astrolabe,  for  this  little  son.  An  astrolabe 
was  an  instrument  used  in  astronomy  to  find  out  the 
distance  of  stars  from  the  earth,  the  position  of  the  sun 
and  moon,  the  length  of  days,  and  many  other  things  about 
the  heavens  and  their  bodies. 

Chaucer  calls  his  book  A  Treatise  on  the  Astrolabe, 
Bread  and  Milk  for  Children.  "Little  Lewis,  my  son,"  he 
says  in  the  beginning,  "I  have  perceived  well  by  certain 
evidences  thine  ability  to  learn  science  touching  numbers 
and  proportions;  and  as  well  consider  I  thy  busy  prayer 


BREAD  AND  MILK  FOR  CHILDREN     131 

in  special  to  learn  the  treatise  of  the  astrolabe."  But 
although  there  were  many  books  written  on  the  subject, 
some  were  unknown  in  England,  and  some  were  not  to  be 
trusted.  "And  some  of  them  be  too  hard  to  thy  tender 
age  of  ten  years.  This  treatise  then  will  I  show  thee  under 
few  light  rules  and  naked  words  in  English;  for  Latin 
canst  thou  yet  but  small,  my  little  son.  .  .  . 

"Now  will  I  pray  meekly  every  discreet  person  that 
readeth  or  heareth  this  little  treatise,  to  have  my  rude 
inditing  for  excused,  and  my  superfluity  of  words,  for  two 
causes.  The  first  cause  is  for  that  curious  inditing  and 
hard  sentence  is  full  heavy  at  one  and  the  same  time  for  a 
child  to  learn.  And  the  second  cause  is  this,  that  soothly 
me  seemeth  better  to  write  unto  a  child  twice  a  good 
sentence  than  he  forget  it  once.  And  Lewis,  if  so  be  I 
shew  you  in  my  easy  English  as  true  conclusions  as  be 
shewn  in  Latin,  grant  me  the  more  thank,  and  pray  God 
save  the  King,  who  is  lord  of  this  English." 

So  we  see  from  this  that  more  than  five  hundred  years 
ago  a  kindly  father  saw  the  need  of  making  simple  books 
on  difficult  subjects  for  children.  You  may  never  v/ant 
to  read  this  book  itself,  indeed  few  people  read  it  now, 
but  I  think  that  we  should  all  be  sorry  to  lose  the  preface, 
although  it  has  in  it  some  long  words  which  perhaps  a 
boy  of  ten  in  our  day  would  still  find  "full  heavy." 

It  is  interesting,  too,  to  notice  in  this  preface  that 
here  Chaucer  calls  his  King  "Lord  of  this  English."  We 
now  often  speak  of  the  "King's  English,"  so  once  again  we 
see  how  an  everyday  phrase  links  us  with  the  past. 


CHAPTER  XXIII 

CHAUCER— "THE  CANTERBURY  TALES" 

Chaucer  rose  in  the  King's  service.  He  became  an 
esquire,  and  was  sent  on  business  for  the  King  to  France 
and  to  Italy.  To  Italy  he  went  at  least  twice,  and  it  is 
well  to  remember  this,  as  it  had  an  effect  on  his  most 
famous  poems.  He  must  have  done  his  business  well, 
for  we  find  him  receiving  now  a  pension  for  life  worth 
about  £200  in  our  money,  now  a  grant  of  a  daily  pitcher  of 
wine  besides  a  salary  of  "TV^d.  a  day  and  two  robes  yearly." 

Chaucer's  wife,  too,  had  a  pension,  so  the  poet  was  well 
off.  He  had  powerful  friends  also,  among  them  John  of 
Gaunt.  And  when  the  Duke's  wife  died  Chaucer  wrote  a 
lament  which  is  called  the  DetJw  of  BlauncJie  the  Duchess j 
or  sometimes  the  Book  of  the  Duchess.  This  is  one  of 
the  earliest  known  poems  of  Chaucer,  and  although  it  is  not 
so  good  as  some  which  are  later,  there  are  many  beautiful 
lines  in  it. 

The  poet  led  a  busy  life.  He  was  a  good  business  man, 
and  soon  we  find  him  in  the  civil  service,  as  we  would  call 
it  now.  He  was  made  Comptroller  of  Customs,  and  in 
this  post  he  had  to  work  hard,  for  one  of  the  conditions 
was  that  he  must  write  out  the  accounts  with  his  own 
hand,  and  always  be  in  the  office  himself.  If  we  may  take 
some  lines  he  wrote  to  be  about  himself,  he  was  so  busy  all 
day  long  that  he  had  not  time  to  hear  what  was  happening 
abroad,  or  even  what  was  happening  among  his  friends 
and  neighbors. 

132 


"THE  CANTERBURY  TALES"  133 

"Not  only  from  far  countree^ 
That  there  no  tidings  cometli  to  thee; 
Not  of  thy  very  neighbours. 
That  dwellen  almost  at  thy  doors. 
Thou  hearcst  neither  that  nor  this." 

Yet  after  his  hard  office  work  was  done  he  loved  nothing 
better  than  to  go  back  to  his  books,  for  he  goes  on  to  say: 

"For  wlicn  thy  labour  done  all  is 
And  hast  y-made  thy  reckonings. 
Instead  of  rest  and  newe  things 
Thou  goest  home  to  thy  house  anon. 
And  all  so  dumb  as  any  stone. 
Thou  sittest  at  another  book. 
Till  fully  dazed  is  thy  look. 
And  livest  thus  as  a  hermite 
Although  thine  abstinence  is  light." 

But  if  Chaucer  loved  books  he  loved  people  too,  and 
we  may  believe  that  he  readily  made  friends,  for  there  was 
a  kindly  humor  about  him  that  must  have  drawn  people 
to  him.  And  that  he  knew  men  and  their  ways  we  learn 
from  his  poetry,  for  it  is  full  of  knowledge  of  men  and 
women. 

For  many  years  Chaucer  was  well  off  and  comfortable. 
But  he  did  not  always  remain  so.  There  came  a  time  when 
his  friend  and  patron,  John  of  Gaunt,  fell  from  power,  and 
Chaucer  lost  his  appointments.  Soon  after  that  his  wife 
died,  and  with  her  life  her  pension  ceased.  So  for  a  year  or 
two  the  poet  knew  something  of  poverty — poverty  at  least 
compared  to  what  he  had  been  used  to.  But  if  he  lost  his 
money  he  did  not  lose  his  sunny  temper,  and  in  all  his 
writings  we  find  little  that  is  bitter. 

After  a  time  John  of  Gaunt  returned  to  power,  and 
again  Chaucer  had  a  post  given  to  him.  And  so  until  he  died 
he  suffered  ups  and  downs.  Born  when  Edward  iii.  was 
in  his  highest  glorj?-,  Chaucer  lived  to  see  him  hated  by  his 
people.    He  lived  through  the  reign  of  Edward's  grandson. 


134  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Richard  ii.,  and  knew  him  from  the  time  when  as  a  gallant 
yellow-haired  boy  he  had  faced  Wat  Tyler  and  his  rioters, 
till  as  a  worn  and  broken  prisoner  he  yielded  the  crown  to 
Henry  of  Lancaster,  the  son  of  John  of  Gaunt.  But  before 
the  broken  King  died  in  his  darksome  prison  Chaucer  lay 
taking  his  last  rest  in  St.  Benet's  Chapel  in  Westminster. 
He  was  the  first  great  poet  to  be  laid  there,  but  since  then 
there  have  gathered  round  him  so  many  bearing  the 
greatest  names  in  English  literature  that  we  call  it  now  the 
"Poets'  Corner." 

But  although  Chaucer  lived  in  stirring  times,  although 
he  was  a  soldier  and  a  courtier,  he  does  not,  in  the  book 
by  which  we  know  him  best,  write  of  battles  and  of  pomp, 
of  kings  and  of  princes.  In  this  book  we  find  plain,  every- 
day people,  people  of  the  great  middle  class  of  merchants 
and  tradesmen  and  others  of  like  calling,  to  which  Chaucer 
himself  belonged.  It  was  a  class  which  year  by  year  had 
been  growing  more  and  more  strong  in  England,  and  which 
year  by  year  had  been  making  its  strength  more  and  more 
felt.  But  it  was  a  class  which  no  one  had  thought  of 
writing  about  in  plain  fashion.  And  it  is  in  the  Canterbury 
Tales  that  we  have,  for  the  first  time  in  the  English  lan- 
guage, pictures  of  real  men,  and  what  is  more  wonderful, 
of  real  women.  They  are  not  giants  or  dwarfs,  they  are  not 
fairy  princes  or  knights  in  shining  armor.  They  do  no 
wondrous  deeds  of  strength  or  skill.  They  are  not  queens 
of  marvelous  beauty  or  enchanted  princesses.  They  are 
simply  plain,  middle-class  English  people,  and  yet  they 
are  very  interesting. 

In  Chaucer's  time,  books,  although  still  copied  by  hand, 
had  become  more  plentiful  than  ever  before.  And  as 
more  and  more  people  learned  to  read,  the  singing  time 
began  to  draw  to  a  close.  Stories  were  now  not  all  written 
in  rhyme,  and  poetry  was  not  all  written  to  be  sung.  Yet 
the  listening  time  was  not  quite  over,  for  these  were  stiU, 


"THE  CANTERBURY  TALES"  135 

the  days  of  talk  and  story-telling.  Life  went  at  leisure 
pace.  There  was  no  hurry,  there  was  no  machinery. 
All  sewing  was  done  by  hand,  so  when  the  ladies  of  a  great 
household  gathered  to  their  handiwork,  it  was  no  unusual 
thing  for  one  among  them  to  lighten  the  long  hours  with 
tales  read  or  told.  Houses  were  badly  lighted,  and  there 
was  little  to  do  indoors  in  the  long  winter  evenings,  so 
the  men  gathered  together  and  listened  while  one  among 
them  told  of  love  and  battle.  Indeed,  through  all  the  life 
of  the  Middle  Ages  there  was  room  for  story-telling. 

So  now,  although  Chaucer  meant  his  tales  to  be  read, 
he  made  believe  that  they  were  told  by  a  company  of 
people  on  a  journey  from  London  to  Canterbury.  He  thus 
made  a  framework  for  them  of  the  life  he  knew,  and  gave 
a  reason  for  them  all  being  told  in  one  book. 

But  a  reason  had  to  be  given  for  the  journe}^  for  in 
those  days  people  did  not  travel  about  from  place  to  place^ 
for  the  mere  pleasure  of  seeing  another  town,  as  we  do  now. 
Few  people  thought  of  going  for  a  change  of  air,  nobody 
perhaps  ever  thought  about  going  to  the  seaside  for  the 
summer.  In  short,  people  always  had  a  special  object  in 
taking  a  journey. 

One  reason  for  this  was  that  traveling  was  slow  and 
often  dangerous.  The  roads  were  bad,  and  people  nearty 
all  traveled  on  horseback  and  in  company.  For  robbers 
lurked  by  the  way  ready  to  attack  and  kill,  for  the  sake  of 
their  money,  any  who  rode  alone  and  unprotected.  So 
when  a  man  had  to  travel  he  tried  to  arrange  to  go  in 
company  with  others. 

In  olden  days  the  most  usual  reason  for  a  journey, 
next  to  business,  was  a  pilgrimage.  Sometimes  this  was 
simply  an  act  of  religion  or  devotion.  Clad  in  a  simple 
gown,  and  perhaps  with  bare  feet,  the  pilgrim  set  out. 
Carrying  a  staff  in  his  hand,  and  begging  for  food  and 
shelter  by  the  road,  he  took  his  way  to  the  shrine  of  some 


136  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

saint.  There  he  knelt  and  prayed  and  felt  himself  blessed 
in  the  deed.  Sometimes  it  was  an  act  of  penance  for  some 
great  sin  done;  sometimes  of  thanksgiving  for  some  great 
good  received,  some  great  danger  passed. 

But  as  time  went  on  these  pilgrimages  lost  their  old 
meaning.  People  no  longer  trudged  along  barefoot, 
wearing  a  pilgrim's  grab.  They  began  to  look  upon  a 
pilgrimage  more  as  a  summer  outing,  and  dressed  in  their 
best  they  rode  comfortably  on  horseback.  And  it  is  a 
company  of  pilgrims  such  as  this  that  Chaucer  paints  for  us. 
He  describes  himself  as  being  of  the  company,  and  it  is 
quite  likely  that  Chaucer  really  did  at  one  time  go  upon 
this  pilgrimage  from  London  to  Canterbury,  for  it  was  a 
very  favorite  one.  Not  only  was  the  shrine  of  St. 
Thomas  at  Canterbury  very  beautiful  in  those  days, 
but  it  was  also  within  easy  distance  of  London.  Neither 
costing  much  nor  lasting  long,  it  was  a  journey  which 
well-to-do  merchantmen  and  others  like  them  could  well 
afford. 

Chaucer  tells  us  that  it  was  v/hen  the  first  sunshiny 
days  of  April  came  that  people  began  to  think  of  such 
pilgi'images : — 

"When  that  April  with  his  showers  sweet, 
The  drought  of  March  hath  pierced  to  the  root/' 

when  the  soft  wind  "with  his  sweet  breath  inspired  hath 
in  every  holt  and  heath  the  tender  crops";  when  the  little 
birds  make  new  songs,  then  "longen  folk  to  go  on  pilgrim- 
ages, and  palmers  for  to  seeken  strange  lands,  and  especi- 
ally from  every  shire's  end  of  England,  to  Canterbury  they 
wend." 

So  one  day  in  April  a  company  of  pilgrims  gathered  at 
the  Tabard  Inn  on  the  south  side  of  the  Thames,  not  far 
from  London  Bridge.  A  tabard,  or  coat  without  sleeves, 
was  the  sign  of  the  inn;  hence  its  name.     In  those  days 


11    IS   A    COMPAW   OF   PILGRIMS    SUCH    AS   THIS   THAT    CHAUCER    PAINTS    I  OR 
US.   HE    HIMSELF    BEING   OI"   THE    COMPANY' 


"THE  CANTERBURY  TALES"  137 

such  a  coat  would  often  be  worn  by  workmen  for  ease  in 
working,  but  it  has  come  down  to  us  only  as  the  gayly 
colored  coat  worn  by  heralds. 

At  the  Tabard  Inn  twenty-nine  "of  sundry  folk," 
besides  Chaucer  himself,  wei'e  gathered.  They  were  all 
strangers  to  each  other,  but  they  were  all  bound  on  the 
same  errand.  Every  one  was  willing  to  be  friendly  with 
his  neighbor,  and  Chaucer  in  his  cheery  way  had  soon 
made  friends  with  them  all. 

"And  shortly  when  the  sun  -was  to  rest, 
So  had  I  spoke  with  them  every  one." 

And  having  made  their  acquaintance,  Chaucer  begins  to 
describe  them  all  so  that  we  may  know  them  too.  He 
describes  them  so  well  that  he  makes  them  all  living  to  us. 
Some  we  grow  to  love;  some  we  smile  upon  and  have  a 
kindly  feeling  for,  for  although  they  are  not  fine  folk,  they 
are  so  very  human  we  cannot  help  but  like  them,  and  some 
we  do  not  like  at  all,  for  they  are  rude  and  rough,  as  the 
poet  meant  them  to  be. 


CHAPTER  XXIV 

CHAUCER— AT  THE  TABARD  INN 

Chaucer  begins  his  description  of  the  people  who  were 
gathered  at  the  Tabard  Inn  with  the  knight,  who  was  the 
highest  in  rank  among  them. 

"A  knight  there  was^  and  that  a  worthy  man. 

And  though  he  was  worthy  he  was  wise. 
And  of  his  port  as  meek  as  any  maid. 
He  never  yet  no  villainy  ne'er  said 
In  all  his  life  unto  no  manner  wight; 
He  was  a  very  perfect,  gentle  knight." 

Yet  he  was  no  knight  of  romance  or  fairy  tale,  but  a 
good  honest  English  gentleman  who  had  fought  for  his 
King.  His  coat  was  of  fustian  and  was  stained  with 
rust  from  his  armor,  for  he  had  just  come  back  from 
fighting,  and  was  still  clad  in  his  war-worn  clothes.  "His 
horse  was  good,  but  he  ne  was  gay." 

With  the  knight  was  his  son,  a  young  squire  of  twenty 
years.  He  was  gay  and  handsome,  with  curling  hair  and 
comely  face.  His  clothes  were  in  the  latest  fashion,  gayly 
embroidered.  He  sat  his  horse  well  and  guided  it  with 
ease.  He  was  merry  and  careless  and  clever  too,  for  he 
could  joust  and  dance,  sing  and  play,  read  and  write,  and 
indeed  do  everything  as  a  young  squire  should.  Yet  with 
it  all  "courteous  he  was,  lowly  and  serviceable." 

With  these  two  came  their  servant,  a  yeoman,  clad  in 
hood  of  green,  and  carrying  besides  many  other  weapons 
a  "mighty  bow." 

As  was  natural  in  a  gathering  such  as  this,  monks  and 

138 


AT  THE  TABARD  INN  139 

friars  and  their  like  figured  largely.  There  was  a  monk, 
a  worldly  man,  fond  of  dress,  fond  of  hunting,  fond  of  a 
good  dinner;  and  a  friar  even  more  worldly  and  pleasure- 
loving.  There  was  a  pardoner,  a  man  who  sold  pardons  to 
those  who  had  done  wrong,  and  a  sumpnour  or  summoner, 
who  was  so  ugly  and  vile  that  children  were  afraid  of  him. 
A  summoner  was  a  person  who  went  to  summon  or  call 
people  to  appear  before  the  Church  courts  when  they  had 
done  wrong.  He  was  a  much-hated  person,  and  both 
he  and  the  pardoner  were  great  rogues  and  cheats  and 
had  no  love  for  each  other.  There  was  also  a  poor 
parson. 

All  these,  except  the  poor  parson,  Chaucer  holds  up  to 
scorn  because  he  had  met  many  such  in  real  life  who, 
under  the  pretense  of  religion,  lived  bad  lives.  But  that 
it  was  not  the  Church  that  he  scorned  or  any  who  were 
truly  good  he  shows  by  his  picture  of  the  poor  parson. 
He  was  poor  in  worldly  goods: — 

"But  rich  he  was  in  holy  thought  and  work. 
He  was  also  a  learned  man,  a  clerk 
That  Christ's  gospel  truly  would  preach. 
His  parishioners  devoutly  would  he  teach; 
Benign  he  was  and  wonder  diligent. 
And  in  adversity  full  patient. 

Wide  was  his  parish,  and  houses  far  asunder. 

But  he  left  naught  for  rain  nor  thunder 

In  sickness  nor  in  mischief  to  visit 

The  farthest  of  his  parish,  great  or  lite  ^ 

Upon  his  feet,  and  in  his  hand  a  staff. 

The  noble  ensample  to  his  sheep  he  gave, 

That  first  he  wrought,  and  afterward  he  taught." 

There  was  no  better  parson  anj^iere.  He  taught  his 
people  to  walk  in  Christ's  way.  But  first  he  followed  it 
himself. 

>  Little. 


140  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Chaucer  gives  this  good  man  a  brother  who  is  a  plow- 
man. 

"A  true  worker  and  a  good  was  he^ 
Living  in  peace  and  perfect  charity." 

He  could  dig,  and  he  could  thresh,  and  everything  to  which 
he  put  his  hand  he  did  with  a  will. 

Besides  all  the  other  religious  folk  there  were  a  prioress 
and  a  nun.  In  those  days  the  convents  were  the  only 
schools  for  fine  ladies,  and  the  prioress  perhaps  spent  her 
days  teaching  them.  Chaucer  makes  her  very  prim  and 
precise. 

"At  meat  well  taught  was  she  withal. 
She  let  no  morsel  from  her  lips  fall. 
Nor  wet  her  fingers  in  her  sauce  deep. 
Well  could  she  carry  a  morsel,  and  well  keep 
That  no  drop  might  fall  upon  her  breast.^ 

In  courtesy  was  set  full  mickle  her  lest.^ 

Her  over  lip  wiped  she  so  clean. 

That  in  her  cup  there  was  no  morsel  seen 

Of  grease,  when  she  drunken  had  her  draught." 

And  she  was  so  tender  hearted!  She  would  cry  if  she 
saw  a  mouse  caught  in  a  trap,  and  she  fed  her  little  dog  on 
the  best  of  everything.  In  her  dress  she  was  very  dainty 
and  particular.  And  yet  with  all  her  fine  ways  we  feel 
that  she  was  no  true  lady,  and  that  ever  so  gently  Chaucer 
is  making  fun  of  her. 

Besides  the  prioress  and  the  nun  there  was  only  one 
other  woman  in  the  company.  This  was  the  vulgar, 
bouncing  Wife  of  Bath.  She  dressed  in  rich  and  gaudy 
clothes,  she  liked  to  go  about  to  see  and  be  seen  and  have  a 
good  time.  She  had  been  married  five  times,  and  though 
she  was  getting  old  and  rather  deaf,  she  was  quite  ready  to 
marry  again,  if  the  husband  she  had  should  die  before  her. 

*  It  should  be  remembered  that  in  those  days  forks  were  unknown,  and  people 
used  their  fingers.  '  Pleasure. 


AT  THE  TABARD  INN  141 

Chaucer  describes  nearly  every  one  in  the  company, 
and  last  of  all  he  pictures  for  us  the  host  of  the  Tabard  Inn. 

"A  seemly  man  our  host  was  withal 
For  to  have  been  a  marshal  in  a  hall. 
A  large  man  he  was  with  eyen  stepe,^ 
A  fairer  burgesse  was  there  none  in  Chepe/ 
Bold  was  his  speech,  and  wise  and  well  y-taught. 
And  of  manhood  him  lacked  right  naught, 
Eke  thereto  he  was  right  a  merry  man." 

The  host's  name  was  Harry  Baily,  a  big  man  and  jolly 
fellow  who  dearly  loved  a  joke.  After  supper  was  over  he 
spoke  to  all  the  company  gathered  there.  He  told  them 
how  glad  he  was  to  see  them,  and  that  he  had  not  had  so 
merry  a  company  that  year.  Then  he  told  them  that 
he  had  thought  of  something  to  amuse  them  on  the  long 
way  to   Canterbury.     It  was  this: — 

"That  each  of  you  to  shorten  of  your  way 
In  this  voyage  shall  tell  tales  tway  ^ — 
To  Canterbury-ward  I  mean  it  so, 
And  homeward  ye  shall  tellen  other  two ; — 
Of  adventures  which  whilom  have  befallen. 
And  which  of  you  the  beareth  you  best  of  all, 
That  is  to  say,  that  telleth  in  this  case 
Tales  of  best  sentence,  and  most  solace. 
Shall  have  a  supper  at  all  our  cost. 
Here  in  this  place,  sitting  at  this  post. 
When  that  we  come  again  fro  Canterbury. 
And  for  to  make  you  the  more  merry 
I  will  myself  gladly  with  you  ride. 
Right  at  mine  own  cost,  and  be  your  guide." 

To  this  every  one  willingly  agreed,  and  next  morning 
they  waked  very  early  and  set  off.  And  having  ridden  a 
little  way  they  cast  lots  as  to  who  should  tell  the  first 
tale.    The  lot  fell  upon  the  knight,  who  accordingly  began. 

*  Bright.  *  Clieapside,  a  street  in  London. 

'  Twain. 


142  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

All  that  I  have  told  you  so  far  forms  the  first  part  of 
the  book  and  is  called  the  prologue,  which  means  really 
"before  word"  or  explanation.  It  is  perhaps  the  most 
interesting  part  of  the  book,  for  it  is  entirely  Chaucer's 
own  and  it  is  truly  English. 

It  is  said  that  Chaucer  borrowed  the  form  of  his  famous 
tales  from  a  book  called  The  Decameron,  written  by  an 
Italian  poet  named  Boccaccio.  Decameron  comes  from 
two  Greek  words  deha,  ten,  and  hemera,  a  day,  the  book 
being  so  called  because  the  stories  in  it  were  supposed  to  be 
told  in  ten  days.  During  a  time  of  plague  in  Florence 
seven  ladies  and  three  gentlemen  fled  and  took  refuge  in  a 
house  surrounded  by  a  garden  far  from  the  town.  There 
they  remained  for  ten  days,  and  to  amuse  themselves  each 
told  a  tale  every  day,  so  that  there  are  a  hundred  tales  in 
all  in  The  Decameron. 

It  is  very  likely  that  in  one  of  his  journeys  to  Italy 
Chaucer  saw  this  book.  Perhaps  he  even  met  Boccaccio, 
and  it  is  more  than  likely  that  he  met  Petrarch,  another 
great  Italian  poet  who  also  retold  one  of  the  tales  of 
The  Decameron.  Several  of  the  tales  which  Chaucer  makes 
his  people  tell  are  founded  on  these  tales.  Indeed,  nearly 
all  his  poems  are  founded  on  old  French,  Italian,  or  Latin 
tales.  But  although  Chaucer  takes  his  material  from 
others,  he  tells  the  stories  in  his  own  way,  and  so  makes 
them  his  own;  and  he  never  wrote  anything  more  truly 
English  in  spirit  than  the  prologue  to  the  Canterbury  Tales. 

Some  of  these  stories  you  will  like  to  read,  but  others 
are  too  coarse  and  rude  to  give  you  any  pleasure.  Even 
the  roughness  of  these  tales,  however,  helps  us  to  picture 
the  England  of  those  far-off  days.  We  see  from  them  how 
hard  and  rough  the  life  must  have  been  when  people  found 
humor  and  fun  in  jokes  in  which  we  can  feel  only  disgust. 
But  even  in  Chaucer's  day  there  were  those  who  found 
such  stories  coarse.     "Precious  folk,"  Chaucer  calls  them. 


AT  THE  TABARD  INN  143 

He  himself  perhaps  did  not  care  for  them,  indeed  he  ex- 
plains in  the  tales  why  he  tells  them.  Here  is  a  company 
of  common,  everyday  people,  he  said,  and  if  I  am  to  make 
you  see  these  people,  if  they  are  to  be  living  and  real  to 
you,  I  must  make  them  act  and  speak  as  such  common 
people  would  act  and  speak.  They  are  churls,  and  they 
must  speak  like  churls  and  not  like  fine  folk,  and  if  j-ou 
don't  like  the  tale,  turn  over  the  leaf  and  choose  another. 

"What  should  I  more  say  but  this  miller 
He  would  his  words  for  no  man  forbear. 
But  told  his  churls  tale  in  his  manner. 
Me  thinketh  that  I  shall  rehearse  it  here; 
And  therefore  every  gently  wight  I  pray. 
For  Goddes  love  deem  not  that  I  say 
Of  evil  intent,  but  for  I  might  rehearse 
Their  tales  all,  be  they  better  or  worse. 
Or  else  falsen  some  of  my  matter: 
And  therefore,  who  so  listeth  it  not  to  hear. 
Turn  over  the  leaf  and  choose  another  tale; 
For  he  shall  find  enow,  both  great  and  small. 
In  storial  thing  that  toucheth  gentlesse, 
And  eke  morality  and  holiness, — 
Blame  not  me  if  that  ye  choose  amiss. 
This  miller  is  a  churl  ye  know  well. 
So  was  the  Reeve,  and  many  more. 
And  wickedness  they  tolden  both  two. 
Advise  you,  put  me  out  of  blame; 
And  eke  men  shall  not  make  earnest  of  game." 

If  Chaucer  had  written  all  the  tales  that  he  meant  to 
write,  there  would  have  been  one  hundred  and  twenty-four 
in  all.  But  the  poet  died  long  before  his  work  was  done, 
and  as  it  is  there  are  only  twenty-four.  Two  of  these  are 
not  finished;  one,  indeed,  is  only  begun.  Thus,  you  see, 
many  of  the  pilgrims  tell  no  story  at  all,  and  we  do  not 
know  who  got  the  prize,  nor  do  we  hear  anything  of  the 
grand  sup2ier  at  the  end  of  the  journey. 

Chaucer  is  the  first  of  our  poets  who  had  a  perfect  sense 


144  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  sound.  He  delights  us  not  only  with  his  stories,  but 
with  the  beauty  of  the  w^ords  he  uses.  We  lose  a  great  deal 
of  that  beauty  when  his  poetry  is  put  into  modern  English, 
as  are  all  the  quotations  which  I  have  given  you.  It  is 
only  when  we  can  read  the  poems  in  the  quaint  English  of 
Chaucer's  time  that  we  can  see  truly  how  fine  it  is.  So, 
although  you  may  begin  to  love  Chaucer  now,  you  must 
look  forward  to  a  time  when  you  will  be  able  to  read  his 
stories  as  he  wrote  them.  Then  you  will  love  them  much 
more. 

Chaucer  wrote  many  other  books  beside  the  Canterbury 
Tales,  although  not  so  many  as  was  at  one  time  thought. 
But  the  Canterbury  Tales  are  the  most  famous,  and  I  will 
not  trouble  you  with  the  names  even  of  the  others.  But 
when  the  grown-up  time  comes,  I  hope  that  you  will  want  to 
read  some  of  his  other  books  as  well  as  the  Canterbury  Tales. 

And  now,  just  to  end  this  long  chapter,  I  will  give 
you  a  little  poem  by  Chaucer,  written  as  he  wrote  it,  with 
modern  English  words  underneath  so  that  you  may  see 
the  difference. 

This  poem  was  written  when  Chaucer  was  very  poor. 
It  was  sent  to  King  Hemy  iv.,  who  had  just  taken  the 
throne  from  Richard  ii.  Henry's  answer  was  a  pension  of 
twenty  marks,  so  that  once  more  Chaucer  lived  in  comfort. 
He  died,  however,  a  year  later. 

THE  COMPLAYNT  OF  CHAUCER  TO  HYS  PURSE 

To  jow  my  purse,  and  to  noon  other  wight 
To  you  my  purse,  and  to  no  other  weight 
Complayne  I,  for  ye  by  my  lady  dere; 

Complain      I,    for   ye    be    my    lady    dear; 
I  am  so  sorry  now  that  ye  been  lyght, 
I  am    so    sorry    now   that   ye     be       light. 
For  certes,  but  yf  ye  make  me  hevy  chere 
For  certainly,  but    if     ye    make    me   heavy   cheer 
Me  were  as  leef  be  layde  upon  my  bere; 

I    would  as   soon  be    laid      upon  my    bier; 


AT  THE  TABARD  INN  145 

For  which  unto  j-our  mercj'  thus  I  cryc, 
For    which   unto    your    mercy    thus   I    cry, 
Beeth  hevy  ageync,  or  elles  mote  I  dye. 
Be       heavy    again,     or    else    must    I    die. 

Now  voucheth-sauf  this  day  or  hyt  be  nyght 
Now        vouchsafe         this   day  before  it    be     night 
That  I  of  you  the  blisful  sovne  may  here. 
That   I    of   you   the    blissful   sound   may    hear. 
Or  see  your  colour  lyke  the  sonne  bryght. 
Or    see    your    colour      like     the      sun       bright. 
That  of  yelownesse  hadde  neuer  pere. 
That    of    yellowness        had      never    peer. 
Ye  be  my  lyfe,  je  be  myn  hertys  stere, 
Ye   be  my     life,     ye   be     my      heart's     guide, 
Quene  of  comfort,  and  of  good  companye. 
Queen    of     comfort,     and    of     good      company, 
Beth  heuy  ageync,  or  elles  moote  I  dye. 
Be     heavy     again,      or     else     must     I     die. 

Now  purse  that  ben  to  me  my  lyves  lyght 
Now    purse    that   art    to   me   my    life's     light 
And  saveour  as  down  in  this  worlde  here, 
And     saviour     as   down    in   this     world     here, 
Oute  of  this  tovne  helpe  me  thrugh  your  myght. 
Out     of    this    town      help     me  through   your     might, 
Syn  that  ye  wole  nat  bene  my  tresorere, 
Since  that    ye     will     not     be      my    treasurer. 
For  I  am  shave  as  nye  as  is  a  fFrere ; 
For   I  am  shaven  as  close  as   is   a     friar; 
But  yet  I  pray  vnto  your  curtesye. 
But   yet  I    pray    unto   your     courtesy, 
Bethe  hevy  agen  or  elles  moote  I  dye. 
Be      heavy  again   or     else  J  must    I    die. 

L'ENVoy^  DE  Chaucer 

O  conquerour  of  Brutes  albyon, 
O      conqueror       of     Brutus'    Albion, 
Whiche  that  by  lygne  and  free  eleccion 
Who      that   by     line      and    free    election 
Been  verray  kynge,  this  song  to  yow  I  sende; 
Art       very        king,      this    song    to  you   I     send; 


•  This  is  from  a  French  word,  meaning  "to  send,"  and  is  still  often  used  for  the 
last  verse  of  a  poem.     It  is,  as  it  were,  a  "sending  off." 


146  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  ye  that  mowen  alle  myn  harme  amende. 
And    ye    that   art  able    all      my      harm      amend, 
Haue  mynde  vpon  my  supplicacion. 
Have    mind    upon   my     supplication. 

In  reading  this  you  must  sound  the  final  "e"  in  each 
word  except  when  the  next  word  begins  with  an  "h"  or 
with  another  vowel.  You  will  then  find  it  read  easily  and 
smoothly. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Stories  from  Chaucer  (prose),  by  J.  H.  Kelman.  Tales  from  Chaucer  (prose), 
by  C.  L.  Thomson.  Prologue  to  the  Canterbury  Tales  and  Minor  Poems  (poetry), 
done  into  Modern  English  by  W.  W.  Skeat.  Canterbury  Tales  (poetry),  edited 
by  A.  W.  Pollard   (in  Chaucer's  English,  suitable  only  for  grown-up  readers). 

Note. — As  there  are  so  many  books  now  published  containing  stories  frona 
Chauncer's  Canterbury  Tales,  I  feel  it  unnecessary  to  give  any  here  in  outline. 


CHAPTER  XXV 

THE  FIRST  ENGLISH  GUIDE-BOOK 

And  now,  lest  you  should  say,  "What,  still  more  poetry!" 
I  shall  give  you  next  a  chapter  about  a  great  story-teller 
who  wrote  in  prose.  We  use  story-teller  in  two  senses, 
and  when  we  speak  of  Sir  John  Mandeville  we  use  it  in 
both.    He  was  a  great  story-teller. 

But  before  saying  anything  about  his  stories,  I  must 
first  tell  you  that  after  having  been  believed  in  as  a  real 
person  for  five  hundred  years  and  more.  Sir  John  has  at 
last  been  found  out.  He  never  lived  at  all,  and  the  travels 
about  which  he  tells  us  so  finely  never  took  place. 

"Sir  John,"  too,  used  to  be  called  the  "Father  of  English 
Prose,"  but  even  that  honor  cannot  be  left  to  him,  for  his 
travels  were  not  written  first  in  English,  but  in  French,  and 
were  afterwards  translated  into  English. 

But  although  we  know  Sir  John  Mandeville  was  not 
English,  that  he  never  saw  the  places  he  describes,  that 
indeed  he  never  lived  at  all,  we  will  still  call  him  by  that 
name.  For  we  must  call  him  something,  and  as  no  one 
really  knows  who  wrote  the  book  which  is  known  as 
The  Voyages  and  Travels  of  Sir  John  Mandeville,  we  may 
as  well  call  the  author  by  the  name  he  chose  as  by 
another. 

Sir  John,  then,  tells  us  that  he  was  born  in  St.  Albans, 
that  he  was  a  knight,  and  that  in  1322  he  set  out  on  his 
travels.  He  traveled  about  for  more  than  twenty  years, 
but  at  last,  although  in  the  course  of  them  he  had  drunk 

147 


148  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  the  well  of  everlasting  youth,  he  became  so  crippled 
with  gout  that  he  could  travel  no  longer.  He  settled 
down,  therefore,  at  Liege  in  Belgium.  There  he  wrote  his 
book,  and  there  he  died  and  was  buried.  At  any  rate, 
many  years  afterwards  his  tomb  was  shown  there.  It  was 
also  shown  at  St.  Albans,  where  the  people  were  very  proud 
of  it. 

Sir  John's  great  book  was  a  guide-book.  In  those  days, 
as  we  know,  it  was  a  very  common  thing  for  people  to  go  on 
pilgrimages.  And  among  the  long  pilgrimages  the  one  to 
the  Holy  Land  was  the  most  common.  So  Sir  John  wrote 
his  book  to  help  people  on  their  way,  just  as  Mr.  Baedeker 
and  ]Mr.  ^lurray  do  now. 

It  is  perhaps  the  earliest,  and  certainly  one  of  the  most 
delightful,  guide-books  ever  written,  although  really  it  was 
chiefly  made  up  of  bits  out  of  books  by  other  people. 

Sir  John  tells  of  many  different  ways  of  getting  to 
Palestine,  and  relates  w^onderful  stories  about  the  places 
to  be  passed  through.  He  Avrote  in  French.  "I  know  that 
I  ought  to  write  in  Latin,"  he  says,  "but  because  more 
people  understand  French  I  have  written  in  French,  so 
that  every  one  may  understand  it."  Afterwards  it  was 
translated  into  Latin,  later  into  English,  and  still  later 
into  almost  every  European  language,  so  much  did  people 
like  the  stories. 

When  these  stories  appeared  it  was  something  quite 
new  in  Literature,  for  until  this  time  stories  were  always 
written  in  poetry.  It  was  only  gi'eat  and  learned  books, 
or  books  that  were  meant  to  teach  something,  that  were 
written  in  prose. 

Here  is  one  of  Sir  Jolm  IMandeville's  tales. 

After  telling  about  the  tomb  of  St.  John  at  Ephesus, 
Sir  John  goes  on:  "And  then  men  pass  through  the  isles 
of  Cophos  and  Lango,  of  the  which  isles  Ipocras  was  lord. 
And  some  say  that  in  the  isle  of  Lango  is  Ipocras's  daughter 


THE  FIRST  ENGLISH  GUIDE-BOOK       149 

in  form  of  a  Dragon.  It  is  a  hundred  foot  long,  so  men  say. 
But  I  have  not  seen  it.  And  thej^  say  the  people  of  the 
isles  call  her  the  lady  of  the  country,  and  she  lieth  in  an  old 
castle  and  sheweth  herself  thrice  a  year.  And  she  doeth 
no  man  harm.  And  she  is  thus  changed  from  a  lady  to  a 
Dragon  through  a  goddess  whom  men  call  Diana. 

"And  men  say  that  she  shall  dwell  so  until  the  time 
that  a  knight  come  that  is  so  hardy  as  to  go  to  her  and  kiss 
her  mouth.  And  then  shall  she  turn  again  to  her  own 
kind  and  be  a  woman.  And  after  that  she  shall  not  live 
long. 

"And  it  is  not  long  since  a  knight  of  the  island  of 
Rhodes  that  was  hardy  and  valiant  said  that  he  would  kiss 
her.  But  when  the  Dragon  began  to  lift  up  her  head,  and 
he  saw  it  was  so  hideous,  he  fled  away.  Then  the  Dragon 
in  her  anger  bare  the  knight  to  a  rock  and  cast  him  into  the 
sea,  and  so  he  was  lost. 

"Also  a  young  man  that  wist  not  of  the  Dragon  went 
out  of  a  ship  and  went  through  the  isle  till  he  came  to  a 
castle.  Then  came  he  into  the  cave  and  went  on  till  he 
found  a  chamber.  And  there  he  saw  a  lady  combing  her 
hair,  and  looking  in  a  mirror.  And  she  had  much  treasure 
about  her.  He  bowed  to  the  lady,  and  the  lady  saw  the 
shadow  of  him  in  the  mirror.  Then  she  turned  towards 
him  and  asked  him  what  he  would,  And  he  answered  he 
would  be  her  lover. 

"Then  she  asked  him  if  he  were  a  knight,  and  he  said 
'Nay.'  She  said  then  he  might  not  be  her  lover.  But 
she  bade  him  go  again  to  his  fellows  and  make  him  knight, 
and  come  again  on  the  morrow.  Then  she  would  come  out 
of  the  cave  and  he  should  kiss  her  on  the  mouth.  And  she 
bade  him  have  no  dread,  for  she  would  do  him  no  harm. 
Although  she  seemed  hideous  to  him  she  said  it  was  done 
by  enchantment,  for,  she  said,  she  was  really  such  as  he 
saw  her  then.    She  said,  too,  that  if  he  kissed  her  he  should 


150  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

have  all  the  treasure,  and  be  her  lord,  and  lord  of  all  these 
isles. 

"Then  he  departed  from  her  and  went  to  his  fellows  in 
the  ship,  and  made  him  knight,  and  came  again  on  the 
morrow  for  to  kiss  the  damsel.  But  when  he  saw  her 
come  out  of  the  cave  in  the  form  of  a  Dragon,  he  had  so 
great  dread  that  he  fled  to  the  ship.  She  followed  him, 
and  when  she  saw  that  he  turned  not  again  she  began  to 
cry  as  a  thing  that  had  much  sorrow,  and  turned  back 
again. 

"Soon  after  the  knight  died,  and  since,  hitherto,  might 
no  knight  see  her  but  he  died  anon.  But  when  a  knight 
cometh  that  is  so  hardy  to  kiss  her,  he  shall  not  die,  but  he 
shall  turn  that  damsel  into  her  right  shape  and  shall  be 
lord  of  the  country  aforesaid." 

When  Sir  John  reaches  Palestine  he  has  very  much  to 
say  of  the  wonders  to  be  seen  there.  At  Bethlehem  he  tells 
a  story  of  how  roses  first  came  into  the  world.    Here  it  is: 

"Bethlehem  is  but  a  little  city,  long  and  narrow,  and 
well  walled  and  enclosed  with  a  great  ditch,  and  it  was  wont 
to  be  called  Ephrata,  as  Holy  Writ  sayeth,  *Lo,  we  heard  it 
at  Ephrata.'  And  toward  the  end  of  the  city  toward  the 
East,  is  a  right  fair  church  and  a  gracious.  And  it  hath 
many  towers,  pinnacles  and  turrets  full  strongly  made. 
And  within  that  church  are  forty-four  great  pillars  of 
marble,  and  between  the  church  the  Field  Flowered  as  ye 
shall  hear. 

"The  cause  is,  for  as  much  as  a  fair  maiden  was  blamed 
with  wrong,  for  the  which  cause  she  was  deemed  to  die, 
and  to  be  burnt  in  that  place,  to  the  which  she  was  led. 

"And  as  the  wood  began  to  burn  about  her,  she  made 
her  prayer  to  our  Lord  as  she  was  not  guilty  of  that  thing, 
that  He  would  help  her  that  her  innocence  might  be  known 
to  all  men. 

"And  when  she  had  this  said  she  entered  the  fire.    And 


THE  FIRST  ENGLISH  GUIDE-BOOK     151 

anon  the  fire  went  out,  and  those  branches  that  were  burn- 
ing became  red  roses,  and  those  branches  that  were  not 
kindled  became  white  roses.  And  those  were  the  first 
roses  and  rose-trees  that  any  man  saw.  And  so  was  the 
maiden  saved  through  the  grace  of  God,  and  therefore  is 
that  field  called  the  Field  of  God  Flowered,  for  it  was  full 
of  roses." 

Although  Sir  John  begins  his  book  as  a  guide  to 
Palestine,  he  tells  of  many  other  lands  also,  and  of  the 
wonders  there.  Of  Ethiopia  he  tells  us:  "On  the  other 
side  of  Chaldea  toward  the  South  is  Ethiopia,  a  great  land. 
In  this  land  in  the  South  are  the  people  right  black.  In 
that  side  is  a  well  that  in  the  day  the  water  is  so  cold  that 
no  man  may  drink  thereof,  and  in  the  night  it  is  so  hot 
that  no  man  may  suffer  to  put  his  hand  in  it.  In  this  land 
the  rivers  and  all  the  waters  are  troublous,  and  some  deal 
salt,  for  the  great  heat.  And  men  of  that  land  are  easily 
made  drunken  and  have  little  appetite  for  meat.  They 
have  commonly  great  illness  of  body  and  live  not  long. 
In  Ethiopia  are  such  men  as  have  one  foot,  and  they  walk 
so  fast  that  it  is  a  great  marvel.  And  that  is  a  large  foot 
that  the  shadow  thereof  covereth  the  body  from  sun  and 
rain  when  they  lie  upon  their  backs." 

Sir  John  tells  us,  too,  of  a  wonderful  group  of  islands, 
"and  in  one  of  these  isles  are  men  that  have  one  eye,  and 
that  in  the  midst  of  their  forehead.  And  they  eat  not 
flesh  or  fish  all  raw. 

"And  in  another  isle  dwell  men  that  have  no  heads,  and 
their  eyes  are  in  their  shoulders  and  their  mouths  is  in  their 
breast.  .  .  . 

"And  in  another  isle  are  men  that  have  flat  faces 
without  nose  and  without  eyes,  but  they  have  two  small 
round  holes  instead  of  eyes  and  they  have  a  flat  mouth 
without  lips.  .  .  . 

"And  in  another  isle  are  men  that  have  the  lips  about 


152  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

their  mouth  so  great  that  when  they  sleep  m  the  sun  they 
cover  all  their  face  with  the  lip." 

But  I  must  not  tell  all  the  "lying  wonders  of  our  Eng- 
lish knight,"  ^  for  you  must  read  the  book  for  yourselves. 
And  when  you  do  you  will  find  that  it  is  written  with  such 
an  easy  air  of  truth  that  you  will  half  believe  in  Sir  John's 
marvels.  Every  nov\^  and  again,  too,  he  puts  in  a  bit  of 
real  information  which  helps  to  make  his  marvels  seem 
true,  so  that  sometimes  we  cannot  be  sure  what  is  truth 
and  what  is  fable. 

Sir  John  wandered  far  and  long,  but  at  last  his 
journeyings  ended.  "I  have  passed  through  many  lands 
and  isles  and  countries,"  he  says,  "and  now  am  come 
to  rest  against  my  will."  And  so  to  find  comfort  in  his 
"wretched  rest"  he  wrote  his  book.  "But,"  he  says,  "there 
are  many  other  divers  countries,  and  manj^  other  marvels 
beyond  that  I  have  not  seen.  Also  in  countries  where  I 
have  been  are  many  marvels  that  I  speak  not  of,  for  it 
were  too  long  a  tale."  And  also,  he  thought,  it  v/as  as  well 
to  leave  something  untold  "so  that  other  men  that  go 
thither  may  find  enough  for  to  say  that  I  have  not  told," 
which  was  very  kind  of  him. 

Sir  John  tells  us  then  how  he  took  his  book  to  the  holy 
father  the  Pope,  and  how  he  caused  it  to  be  read,  and 
"the  Pope  hath  ratified  and  affirmed  my  book  in  all  points. 
And  I  pray  to  all  those  that  read  this  book,  that  they  will 
pray  for  me,  and  I  shall  pray  for  them." 

BOOK   TO   READ 

The  Voyages  and  Travels  of  Sir  John  MandeviUe,  edited  by  A.  W.  Pollard. 


^Colonel  Sir  Henry  Yule,   The  Book  of  Sir  Marco  Polo. 


CHAPTER  XXVI 

BARBOUR— "THE  BRUCE/'  THE  BEGINNINGS  OF  A 
STRUGGLE 

While  Chaucer  was  making  for  us  pictures  of  English 
hfe,  in  the  sister  kingdom  across  the  rugged  Cheviots 
another  poet  was  singing  to  a  ruder  people.  This  poet 
was  John  Barbour,  Archdeacon  of  Aberdeen.  An  older 
man  than  Chaucer,  born  perhaps  twenty  years  before 
the  English  poet,  he  died  only  five  years  earlier.  So  that 
for  many  years  these  two  lived  and  wrote  at  the  same 
time. 

But  the  book  by  which  Barbour  is  remembered  best  is 
very  different  from  that  by  which  we  remember  Chaucer. 
Barbour's  best-known  book  is  called  The  Bruce,  and  in  it, 
instead  of  the  quiet  tales  of  middle-class  people,  we  hear 
throughout  the  clash  and  clang  of  battle.  Here  once  again 
we  have  the  hero  of  romance.  Here  once  again  history  and 
story  are  mingled,  and  Robert  the  Bruce  swings  his  battle- 
ax  and  wings  his  faultless  arrow,  saving  his  people  from 
the  English  yoke. 

The  music  of  The  Bruce  cannot  compare  with  the  music 
of  the  Tales,  but  the  spirit  throughout  is  one  of  manliness, 
of  delight  in  noble  deeds  and  noble  thoughts.  Barbour's 
way  of  telling  his  stories  is  simple  and  straightforward. 
It  is  full  of  stern  battle,  yet  there  are  lines  of  tender 
beauty,  but  nowhere  do  we  find  anything  like  the  quiet 
laughter  and  humor  of  Chaucer.  And  that  is  not 
wonderful,  for  those  were  stern  times  in  Scotland,  and 
The  Bruce  is  as  much  an  outcome  of  those  times  as  were  the 

153 


154  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Tales  or  Piers  Ploughman  an  outcome  of  the  times  in 
England. 

But  if  to  Chaucer  belongs  the  title  of  "Father  of  English 
Poetry,"  to  Barbour  belongs  that  of  "Father  of  Scottish 
Poetry  and  Scottish  History."  He,  indeed,  calls  the  lan- 
guage he  wrote  in  "Inglis,"  but  it  is  a  different  English 
from  that  of  Chaucer.  They  were  both  founded  on  Anglo- 
Saxon,  but  instead  of  growing  into  modern  English,  Bar- 
bour's tongue  grew  into  what  was  known  later  as  "braid 
Scots."  All  the  quotations  that  I  am  going  to  give  you 
from  the  poem  I  have  turned  into  modern  English,  for, 
although  they  lose  a  great  deal  in  beauty,  it  makes  them 
easier  for  every  one  to  understand.  For  even  to  the  Scots 
boys  and  girls  who  read  this  book  there  are  many  words  in 
the  original  that  would  need  translating,  although  they  are 
words  still  used  by  every  one  who  speaks  Scots  to  this 
day.  In  one  page  of  twentj^-seven  lines  taken  at  random 
we  find  sixteen  such  words.  They  are,  micht,  nicht, 
licht,  weel,  gane,  ane,  nane,  stane,  rowit,  mirk,  nocht, 
brocht,  mair,  sperit  at,  sair,  hert.  For  those  who  are  Scots 
it  is  interesting  to  know  how  little  the  language  of  the 
people  has  changed  in  five  hundred  years. 

As  of  many  another  of  our  early  poets,  we  know  little 
of  Barbour's  life.  He  was  Archdeacon  of  Aberdeen,  as 
already  said,  and  in  1357  he  received  a  safe-conduct  from 
Edward  iii.  to  allow  him  to  travel  to  Oxford  with  three 
companions.  In  those  days  there  was  not  as  yet  any 
university  in  Scotland.  The  monasteries  still  held  their 
place  as  centers  of  learning.  But  already  the  fame  of 
Oxford  had  reached  the  northern  kingdom,  and  Barbour 
was  anxious  to  share  in  the  treasures  of  learning  to  be 
found  there.  At  the  moment  there  was  peace  between  the 
two  countries,  but  hate  was  not  dead,  it  only  slumbered. 
So  a  safe-conduct  or  passport  was  necessary  for  any 
Scotsman  who  would  travel  through  England  in  safety. 


THE  BEGINNINGS  OF  A  STRUGGLE     155 

"Edward  the  King  unto  his  lieges  greeting,"  it  ran. 
"Know  ye  that  we  have  taken  under  our  protection  (at  the 
request  of  David  de  Bruce)  John  Barbour,  Archdeacon  of 
Aberdeen,  with  the  scholars  in  his  company,  in  coming 
into  our  kingdom  of  England,  in  order  to  study  in  the 
university  of  Oxford,  and  perform  his  scholastic  exercises, 
and  in  remaining  there  and  in  returning  to  his  own 
country  of  Scotland.  And  we  hereby  grant  him  our  safe- 
conduct,  which  is  to  continue  in  force  for  one  year." 

Barbour  was  given  two  other  safe-conducts,  one  to 
allow  him  again  to  visit  Oxford,  and  another  to  allow  him 
to  pass  through  England  on  his  way  to  France.  Besides 
this,  we  know  that  Barbour  received  a  pension  from  the 
King  of  Scotland,  and  that  he  held  his  archdeaconry  until 
his  death;  and  that  is  almost  all  that  we  know  certainly  of 
his  life. 

The  Bruce  is  the  great  national  poem,  Robert  the  Bruce 
the  gi'eat  national  hero  of  Scotland.  But  although  The 
Bruce  concerns  Scotland  in  the  first  place,  it  is  of  interest 
to  every  one,  for  it  is  full  of  thrilling  stories  of  knightly 
deeds,  many  of  which  are  true.  "The  fine  poem  deserves 
to  be  better  known,"  says  one  of  its  editors.^  "It  is  a  proud 
thing  for  a  country  to  have  given  a  subject  for  such  an 
Odyssey,  and  to  have  had  so  early  in  its  literature  a  poet 
worthy  to  celebrate  it."  And  it  is  little  wonder  that 
Barbour  wrote  so  stirringly  of  his  hero,  for  he  lived  not 
many  years  after  the  events  took  place,  and  when  he  was 
a  schoolboy  Robert  the  Bruce  was  still  reigning  over 
Scotland. 

In  the  beginning  of  his  book  Barbour  says: — 

"Stories  to  read  are  delightful, 
Supposing  even  they  be  naught  but  fable; 
Then  should  stories  that  true  were, 
And  that  were  said  in  good  manner, 

*  Cosmo  Innes. 


156  ENGLISH    LITERATURE 

Have  double  pleasantness  in  hearing. 
The  first  pleasantness  is  the  telling 
And  the  other  is  the  truthfulness 
That  shows  the  thing  right  as  it  was. 
And  such  things  that  are  likand 
To  man's  hearing  are  pleasant; 
Therefore  I  would  fain  set  my  will. 
If  my  wit  may  suffice  thereto^ 
To  put  in  writ  a  truthful  story. 
That  it  last  aye  forth  in  memory. 
So  that  no  time  of  length  it  let. 
Nor  gar  it  wholly  be  forgot." 

So  he  will,  he  saj^s,  tell  the  tale  of  "stalwart  folk  that 
lived  erst  while,"  of  "King  Robert  of  Scotland  that  hardy 
was  of  heart  and  hand,"  and  of  "Sir  James  of  Douglas  that 
in  his  time  so  worthy  was"  that  his  fame  reached  into  far 
lands.  Then  he  ends  this  preface  with  a  prayer  that  God 
will  give  him  grace,  "so  that  I  say  naught  but  soothfast 
thing." 

The  story  begins  with  describing  the  state  of  Scotland 
after  the  death  of  Alexander  iii.,  when  Edward  i.  ruled  in 
England.  Alexander  had  been  a  good  king,  but  at  his 
death  the  heir  to  the  throne  was  a  little  girl,  the  INIaid  of 
Norway.  She  was  not  even  in  Scotland,  but  was  far  across 
the  sea.  And  as  this  child-queen  came  sailing  to  her 
kingdom  she  died  on  board  ship,  and  so  never  saw  the  land 
over  which  she  ruled. 

Then  came  a  sad  time  for  Scotland.  "The  land  six  year 
and  more  i-faith  lay  desolate,"  for  there  was  no  other  near 
heir  to  the  throne,  and  thirteen  nobles  claimed  it.  At  last, 
as  they  could  not  agree  which  had  the  best  right,  they 
asked  King  Edward  of  England  to  decide  for  them. 

As  5'ou  know,  it  had  been  the  dream  of  every  King  of 
England  to  be  King  of  Scotland  too.  And  now  Edward  i. 
saw  his  chance  to  make  that  dream  come  true.  He  chose 
as  King  the  man  who  had,  perhaps,  the  greatest  right  to 


THE  BEGINNINGS  OF  A  STRUGGLE     157 

the  throne,  John  BalHol.     But  he  made  him  promise  to 
hold  the  crown  as  a  vassal  to  the  King  of  England. 

This,  however,  the  Scots  would  not  suffer.  Freedom 
they  had  ever  loved,  and  freedom  they  would  have. 
No  man,  they  said,  whether  he  were  chosen  King  or  no, 
had  power  to  make  them  thralls  of  England. 

"Oh !  Freedom  is  a  noble  thing ! 
Freedom  makes  a  man  to  have  liking. 
Freedom  all  solace  to  man  gives, 
He  lives  at  ease  that  freely  lives. 
A  noble  heart  may  have  no  ease, 
Nor  nothing  else  that  may  him  please. 
If  freedom   faileth;   for  free  delight 
Is  desired   before   all  other  thing. 
Nor  he  that  aj'e  has  lived  free 
May   not  know  well  the   quality, 
The   anger,   nor   the   wretched   doom 
That  joined  is  to  foul  thraldom." 

So  sang  Barbour,  and  so  the  passionate  hearts  of  the 
Scots  cried  through  all  the  wretched  years  that  followed 
the  crowning  of  John  Balliol.  And  when  at  last  they  had 
greatest  need,  a  leader  arose  to  show  them  the  way  to 
freedom.  Robert  the  Bruce,  throwing  off  his  sloth  and 
forgetfulness  of  his  country,  became  their  King  and  hero. 
He  was  crowned  and  received  the  homage  of  his  barons, 
but  well  he  knew  that  was  but  the  beginning. 

"To  maintain  what  he  had  begun 
He  wist,  ere  all  the  land  was  won. 
He  should  find   full  hard  bargaining 
With  him  that  was  of  England  King, 
For  there  was  none  in  life  so  fell. 
So  stubborn,  nor  so  cruel." 

Then  began  a  long  struggle  between  two  gallant  men, 
Robert  of  Scotland  and  Edward  of  England.  At  first 
things  went  ill  with  the  Bruce.     He  lost  many  men  in 


158  ENGLISH    LITERATURE 

battle,  others  forsook  him,  and  for  a  time  he  lived  a  hunted 
outlaw  among  the  hills. 

"He  durst  not  to  the  plains  y-go 
For  all  the  commons  went  him  fro. 
That  for  their  lives  were  full  fain 
To  pass  to  the  English  peace  again." 

But  in  all  his  struggles  Bruce  kept  a  good  heart  and 
comforted  his  men. 

"  'For  discomfort/  as  then  said  he, 
'Is  the  worst  thing  that  may  be; 
For  through  mickle  discomforting 
Men  fall  oft  into  despairing. 
And  if  a  man  despairing  be. 
Then  truly  vanquished  is  he.'  " 

Yet  even  while  Bruce  comforted  his  men  he  bade  them 
be  brave,  and  said:  — 

"And  if  that  them  were  set  a  choice. 
To  die,  or  to  live  cowardly. 
They  should  ever  die  chivalrously." 

He  told  them  stories,  too,  of  the  heroes  of  olden  times 
who,  after  much  suffering,  had  in  the  end  won  the  victorj^ 
over  their  enemies.  Thus  the  days  passed,  and  winter 
settled  down  on  the  bleak  mountains.  Then  the  case  of 
Robert  and  his  men  grew  worse  and  worse,  and  they  almost 
lost  hope.  But  at  length,  with  manj^  adventures,  the 
winter  came  to  an  end.  Spring  returned  again,  and  with 
spring  hope. 


CHAPTER   XXVII 

BARBOUR— "THE  BRUCE,"  THE  END  OF  THE  STRUGGLE 

"  'Twas  in  spring,  when  winter  tide 
With  his  blasts,  terrible  to  bide 
Was  overcome ;  and  birdies  small. 
As  throstle  and  the  nightingale, 
Began  right  merrily  to  sing. 
And  to  make  in  their  singing 
Sundrie  notes,  and  varied  sounds. 
And  melody  pleasant  to  hear. 
And  the  trees  began  to  blow 
With  buds,  and  bright  blossom  also. 
To  win  the  covering  of  their  heads 
Which  wicked  winter  had  them  riven. 
And  every  grove  began  to  spring." 

It  was  in  spring  that  Bruce  and  his  men  gathered  to  the 
island  of  Arran,  off  the  west  coast  of  Scotland,  and  there 
Bruce  made  up  his  mind  to  make  another  fight  for  the 
crown.  A  messenger  was  therefore  sent  over  to  the  main- 
land, and  it  was  arranged  that  if  he  found  friends 
there,  if  he  thought  it  was  safe  for  the  King  to  come,  he 
should,  at  a  certain  place,  light  a  great  fire  as  a  signal. 
Anxiously  Bruce  watched  for  the  light,  and  at  last  he  saw 
it.  Then  joyfully  the  men  launched  their  boat,  and  the 
King  and  his  few  faithful  followers  set  out. 

"They  rowed  fast  with  all  their  might. 
Till  that  upon  them  fell  the  night. 
That  it  wox  mirk  ^  in  great  manner 
So  that  they  wist  not  where  they  were. 
For  they  no  needle  had,  nor  stone, 

^  Dark. 
159 


160  ENGLISH   LITERATURE 

But  rowed  always  in  one  way. 

Steering  always  upon  the  fire 

That  they  saw  burning  bright  and  clear. 

It  was  but  adventure  that  them  led, 

And  they  in  short  time  so  them  sped 

That  at  the  fire  arrived  they, 

And  went  to  land  but  ^  mair  delay." 

On  shore  the  messenger  was  eagerly  and  anxiously 
awaiting  them,  and  with  a  "sare  hert"  he  told  the  King 
that  the  fire  was  none  of  his.    Far  from  there  beinsr  friends 

O 

around,  the  English,  he  said,  swarmed  in  all  the  land. 

"Were  in  the  castle  there  beside. 
Full  filled  of  despite  and  pride." 

There  was  no  hope  of  success. 

"Then  said  the  King  in  full  great  ire, 
'Traitor,  why  made  thou  on  the  fire?' 
'Ah  sire,*  he  said,  'so  God  me  see 

That  fire  was  never  made  on  for  me. 

No  ere  this  night  I  wist  it  not 

But  when  I  wist  it  weel  ^  I  thocht 

That  you  and  all  your  company 

In  haste  would  put  you  to  the  sea. 

For  this  I  come  to  meet  you  here. 

To  tell  the  perils  that  may  appear.'  " 

The  King,  vexed  and  disappointed,  turned  to  his 
followers  for  advice.  What  was  best  to  do,  he  asked. 
Edward  Bruce,  the  King's  brave  brother,  was  the  first  to 
answer. 

"And  said,  'I  say  you  sickerly. 
There  shall  no  perils  that  may  be 
Drive  me  eftsoons  into  the  sea; 
Mine  adventure  here  take  will  I 
Whether  it  be  easeful  or  angry.' 
'Brother,'  he  said,  'since  you  will  so 
It  is  good  that  we  together  take 
Disease  and  ease,  or  pain  or  play 
After  as  God  will  us  purvey.'  " 

^  Without.  "Well. 


THE  END  OF  THE  STRUGGLE  IGl 

And  so,  taking  courage,  they  set  out  in  the  darkness, 
and  attacked  the  town,  and  took  it  with  great  slaughter. 

"In  such  afray  they  bode  that  night 
Till  in  the  niorn^  that  day  was  bright. 
And  then  ceased  partly 
The  noise,  the  slaughter,  and  the  cry." 

Thus  once  again  the  fierce  struggle  was  begun.  But 
this  time  the  Bruce  was  successful.  From  town  after  town, 
from  castle  after  castle  the  enemy  was  driven  out,  till  only 
Stirling  was  left  to  the  English.  It  was  near  this  town,  on 
the  field  of  Bannockburn,  that  the  last  great  struggle  took 
place.  Brave  King  Edward  i.  was  dead  by  this  time, 
but  his  son,  Edward  ii.,  led  the  army.  It  was  the  greatest 
army  that  had  ever  entered  Scotland,  but  the  Scots  won 
the  day  and  won  freedom  at  the  same  time.  I  cannot  tell 
you  of  this  great  battle,  nor  of  all  the  adventures  which  led 
up  to  it.  These  you  must  read  in  other  books,  one  day, 
I  hope,  in  Barbour's  Bruce  itself. 

From  the  day  of  Bannockburn,  Barbour  tells  us,  Robert 
the  Bruce  grew  great. 

"His  men  were  rich,  and  his  country 
Abounded  well  with  corn  and  cattle. 
And  of  all  kind  other  richness ; 
Mirth,  solace,  and  eke  blithness 
Was  in  the  land  all  commonly, 
For  ilk  man  blith  was  and  jolly." 

And  here  Barbour  ends  the  first  part  of  his  poem.  In 
the  second  part  he  goes  on  to  tell  us  of  how  the  Bruces 
carried  war  into  Ireland,  of  how  they  overran  Northumber- 
land, and  of  how  at  length  true  peace  was  made.  Then  King 
Robert's  little  son  David,  who  was  but  five,  was  married 
to  Joan,  the  seven-year-old  sister  of  King  Edward  iii. 
Thus,  after  war,  came  rest  and  ease  to  both  countries. 
But  King  Robert  did  not  live  long  to  enjoy  his  well- 


162  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

earned  rest.     He  died,   and  all  the  land  was  filled  with 
mourning  and  sorrow. 

"  'AH  our  defense/  they  said,  'alas ! 
And  he  that  all  our  comfort  was, 
Our  wit  and  all  our  governing. 
Is  brought,  alas,  here  to  ending; 

Alas !  what  shall  we  do  or  say? 
For  in  life  while  he  lasted,  aye 
By  all  our  foes  dred  were  we. 
And  in  many  a  far  country 
Of  our  worship  ran  the  renown. 
And  that  was  all  for  his  person.'  " 

Barbour  ends  his  book  by  telling  of  how  the  Douglas 
set  out  to  carry  the  heart  of  the  Bruce  to  Palestine,  and  of 
how  he  fell  fighting  in  Spain,  and  of  how  his  dead  body  and 
the  King's  heart  were  brought  back  to  Scotland. 

Barbour  was  born  about  six  years  after  the  battle  of 
Bannockburn.  As  a  boy  he  must  have  heard  many  stories 
of  these  stirring  times  from  those  who  had  taken  part  in 
them.  He  must  have  known  many  a  woman  who  had  lost 
husband  or  father  in  the  great  struggle.  He  may  even 
have  met  King  Robert  himself.  And  as  a  boy  he  must 
have  shared  in  the  sorrow  that  fell  upon  the  land  when  its 
hero  died.  He  must  have  remembered,  when  he  grew  up, 
how  the  people  mourned  when  the  dead  body  of  the  Douglas 
and  the  heart  of  the  gallant  Bruce  were  brought  home  from 
Spain.  But  in  spite  of  Barbour's  prayer  to  be  kept  from 
saying  "ought  but  soothfast  thing,"  we  must  not  take 
The  Bruce  too  seriously.  If  King  Robert  was  a  true  King 
he  was  also  a  true  hero  of  romance.  We  must  not  take  all 
The  Bruce  as  serious  history,  but  while  allowing  for  the 
truth  of  much,  we  must  also  allow  something  for  the 
poet's  worship  of  his  hero,  a  hero,  too,  who  lived  so  near 
the  time  in  which  he  wrote.     We  must  allow  something 


THE  END  OF  THE  STRUGGLE  163 

for  the  feelings  of  a  poet  who  so  passionately  loved  the 
freedom  for  which  that  hero  fought. 


BOOKS  TO  READ 

There  is,  so  far  as  I  know,  no  modernized  version  of  The  Bruce,  but  there  are 
many  books  illustrative  of  the  text.  In  this  connection  may  be  read  Robert  the 
Bruce  (Children's  Heroes  Series),  by  Jeannie  I.ang;  Chapters  XXIV  to  XLIV. 
Scotland's  Story,  by  H.  E.  Marshall;  The  Lord  of  the  Isles,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott; 
Castle  Daiif/erous,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott;  chapters  relating  to  this  period  in  Tales 
of  a  Grandfather,  by  Sir  Walter  Scott;  "The  Heart  of  the  Bruce"  in  Lays  of  the 
Scottish  Cavaliers,  Ijy  Aytoun.  The  most  available  version  of  The  Brus  in  old 
"Inglis,"  edited  by  W.  M.  Mackenzie. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 

A  POET  KING 

The  Bruce  is  a  book  Avhich  is  the  outcome  of  the  history 
of  the  times.  It  is  the  outcome  of  the  quarrels  between 
England  and  Scotland,  and  of  Scotland's  struggle  for 
freedom.  Xow  we  come  to  another  poet,  and  another 
poem  which  was  the  outcome  of  the  quarrels  between 
England  and  Scotland.  For  although  Scotland's  freedom 
was  never  again  in  danger,  the  quarrels  between  the  two 
countries  were,  unhappily,  not  over. 

In  1399,  as  we  know,  Henry  iv.  wrested  the  crown  of 
England  from  Richard  ii.  The  new  King  proved  no  friend 
to  Scotland,  for  he  desired,  as  those  before  him  had 
desired,  to  rule  both  countries.  Henry  lost  no  chance, 
therefore,  by  which  he  might  gain  his  end.  So  when  in 
1405  the  King  of  Scotland  sent  his  little  son  James  to  be 
educated  in  France,  the  English  attacked  the  ship  in  which 
he  sailed  and  took  him  prisoner.  Instead,  then,  of  going 
as  a  guest  to  the  court  of  France,  the  Prince  was  carried 
as  a  25i"isoner  to  the  court  of  England.  When  the  old 
King  heard  the  sad  news  he  died,  and  James,  captive 
though  he  was,  became  King  of  Scotland. 

Those  were  again  troublous  times  in  Scotland.  The 
captive  King's  uncle  was  chosen  as  Regent  to  rule  in  his 
absence.  But  he,  wishing  to  rule  himself,  had  no  desire 
that  his  nephew  should  be  set  free.  So  through  the  reigns 
of  Henry  iv.  and  of  Henry  v.  James  remained  a  prisoner. 
But  although  a  prisoner  he  was  not  harshly  treated,  and  the 
Kings   of   England   took   care   that   he   should   receive   an 

164 


A    POET    KING  165 

education  worthy  of  a  prince.  James  was  taught  to  read 
and  write  English,  French,  and  Latin.  He  was  taught  to 
fence  and  wrestle,  and  indeed  to  do  everything  as  a  knight 
should.  Prince  James  was  a  willing  pupil;  he  loved  his 
books,  and  looked  forward  to  the  coming  of  his  teachers, 
who  lightened  the  loneliness  of  his  prison. 

"But,"  says  a  Frenchman  who  has  written  a  beautiful 
little  book  about  this  captive  King,  "  'stone  walls  do  not  a 
prison  make,  nor  iron  bars  a  cage';  the  soul  of  the  child, 
who  grew  to  be  a  youth,  was  never  a  prisoner.  Behind  the 
thick  walls  of  the  Tower,  built  long  ago  by  the  Conqueror, 
he  studied.  Guards  watched  over  him,  but  his  spirit  was 
far  away  voyaging  in  the  realms  of  poetry.  And  in  these 
thought  journeys,  sitting  at  his  little  window,  with  a  big 
book  upon  his  knee,  he  visited  the  famous  places  which 
the  Gcsta  Romanorum  unrolled  before  him.  .  .  .  The 
'noble  senator'  Boece  taught  him  resignation.  William 
de  Lorris  took  him  by  the  hand  and  led  him  to  the  garden 
of  the  Rose.  The  illustrious  Chaucer  invited  him  to 
follow  the  gay  troop  of  pilgrims  along  the  highroad  to 
Canterbury.  The  grave  Gower,  announcing  in  advance  a 
sermon  of  several  hours,  begged  him  to  be  seated,  and  to  the 
murmur  of  his  Avise  talk,  his  head  leaning  on  the  window 
frame,  the  child  slept  peacefully. 

"Thus  passed  the  j^ears,  and  the  chief  change  that  they 
brought  was  a  change  of  prison.  After  the  Tower  it  was 
the  Castle  of  Nottingham,  another  citadel  of  the  Norman 
time,  then  Evesham,  then  again  the  Tower  when  Henry  v. 
came  to  the  throne;  and  at  last,  and  this  was  by  contrast 
almost  liberty,  the  Castle  of  Windsor."  ^ 

And  thus  for  eighteen  years  the  Prince  lived  a  life 
half-real,  half-dream.  The  gray  days  followed  each  other 
without  change,  without  adventure.  But  the  brilliant 
throng   of   kings    and    queens,    of   knights    and   ladies,    of 

^  J.  J.  Jusscrand,  Le  Roman  d'lin  Roi  d'lScosse. 


166  ENGLISH    LITERATURE 

pilgrims  and  lovers,  and  all  the  make-believe  people  of 
storyland  stood  out  all  the  brighter  for  the  grayness  of  the 
background.  And  perhaps  to  the  Prince  in  his  quiet 
tower  the  storied  people  were  more  real  than  the  living, 
w^ho  only  now  and  again  came  to  visit  him.  For  the 
storied  people  were  with  him  always,  while  the  living 
came  and  went  again  and  were  lost  to  him  in  the  great 
world  without,  of  which  he  knew  scarce  anything.  But 
at  last  across  this  twilight  life,  which  was  more  than 
half  a  dream,  there  struck  one  day  a  flash  of  sunshine. 
Then  to  the  patient,  studious  prisoner  all  was  changed. 
Life  was  no  longer  a  twilight  dream,  but  real.  He  knew 
how  deep  joy  might  be,  how  sharp  sorrow.  Life  was 
worth  living,  he  learned,  freedom  worth  having,  and  at 
length  freedom  came,  and  the  Prince  returned  to  his 
country  a  free  King  and  a  happy  lover. 

How  all  this  hapj^ened  King  James  has  told  us  himself 
in  a  book  called  The  King's  Qiiair,  which  means  the  King's 
little  book,  which  he  wrote  while  he  was  still  a  prisoner  in 
England. 

King  James  tells  us  how  one  night  he  could  not  sleep, 
try  as  he  might.  He  lay  tossing  and  tumbling,  "but 
sleep  for  craft  on  earth  might  I  no  more."  So  at  last, 
"loiowing  no  better  wile,"  he  took  a  book  hoping  "to 
borrow  a  sleep"  by  reading.  But  instead  of  bringing 
sleep,  the  book  only  made  him  more  and  more  wide  awake. 
At  length  he  says: — 

"Mine  eyen  gan  to  smart  for  studying, 
My  book  I  shut,  and  at  my  head  it  laid, 
And  down  I  lay  but  ^  any  tarrying." 

Again  he  lay  thinking  and  tossing  upon  his  bed  until 
he  was  weary. 

"Then  I  listened  suddenly, 
And  soon  I  heard  the  bell  to  matins  ring, 

^  Without. 


A   POET    KING  167 

And  up  I  rose,  no  longer  would  I  lie. 
But  now,  how  trow  ye?  such  a  fantasy 
Fell  me  to  mind,  that  aye  methought  the  bell 
Said  to  me,  'Tell  on  man  what  thee  befell.' 

Thought  I  tho'  to  myself,  'What  may  this  be? 

This  is  mine  own  imagining, 

It  is  no  life  ^  that  speaketh  unto  me; 

It  is  a  bell,  or  that  impression 

Of  my  thought  causeth  this  illusion, 

That  maketh  me  think  so  nicely  in  this  wise' ; 

And  so  befell  as  I  shall  you  devise." 

Prince  James  says  he  had  ah*eady  wasted  much  ink 
and  paper  on  writing,  yet  at  the  bidding  of  the  bell  he 
decided  to  write  some  new  thing.     So  up  he  rose, 

"And  forth-with-all  my  pen  in  hand  I  took, 
And  made  a  -f"  and  thus  began  my  book." 

Prince  James  then  tells  of  his  past  life,  of  how,  when  he 
was  a  lad,  his  father  sent  him  across  the  sea  in  a  ship,  and 
of  how  he  was  taken  prisoner  and  found  himself  in 
"Straight  ward  and  strong  prison"  "without  comfort  in 
sorrow."  And  there  full  often  he  bemoaned  his  fate, 
asking  what  crime  was  his  that  he  should  be  shut  up 
within  four  walls  when  other  men  were  free. 

"Bewailing  in  my  chamber  thus  alone. 
Despairing  of  all  joy  and  remedy, 
Out  wearied  with  my  thought  and  woe  begone. 
Unto  the  window  gan  I  walk  in  haste, 
To  see  the  world  and  folk  that  went  forbye. 
As  for  the  time  though  I  of  mirths  food 
Might  have  no  more,  to  look  it  did  me  good." 

Beneath  the  tower  in  which  the  Prince  was  imprisoned 
lay  a  beautiful  garden.  It  was  set  about  with  hawthorn 
hedges  and  juniper  bushes,  and  on  the  small,  green 
branches  sat  a  little  nightingale,  which  sang  so  loud  and 

'  Living  person. 


168  ENGLISH    LITERATURE 

clear  "that  all  the  garden  and  the  walls  rang  right  with  the 
song."  Prince  James  leaned  from  his  M'indow  listening  to 
the  song  of  the  birds,  and  watching  them  as  they  hopped 
from  branch  to  branch,  preening  themselves  in  the  early 
sunshine  and  twittering  to  their  mates.  And  as  he  watched 
he  envied  the  birds,  and  wondered  why  he  should  be  a  thrall 
while  they  were  free. 

"And  therewith  cast  I  down  mine  eyes  again, 
Whereas  I  saw,  walking  under  the  tower 
Full  secretly,  new  coming  her  to  play. 
The  fairest  and  the  freshest  young  flower 
That  ever  I  saw  methought,  before  that  hour. 
For  which  sudden  abate,  anon  astart. 
The  blood  of  all  my  body  to  my  heart." 

A  lovely  lady  was  walking  in  the  garden,  a  lady  more 
lovely  than  he  had  dreamed  any  one  might  be.  Her  hair 
was  golden,  and  wreathed  with  flowers.  Her  dress  was 
rich,  and  jewels  sparkled  on  her  white  throat.  Spellbound, 
he  stood  a  while  watching  the  lovely  lady.  He  could  do 
nothing  but  gaze. 

"No  wonder  was;  for  why  my  wits  all 
Were  so  overcome  with  pleasance  and  delight. 
Only  through  letting  of  mine  eyes  down  fall. 
That  suddenly  my  heart  became  her  thrall. 
For  ever  of  free  will." 

Thus,  from  the  first  moment  in  which  he  saw  her, 
James  loved  the  beautiful  lad}^  After  a  few  minutes  he 
drew  in  his  head  lest  she  might  see  him  and  be  angry  with 
him  for  watching  her.  But  soon  he  leaned  out  again,  for 
while  she  was  in  the  garden  he  felt  he  must  watch  and  see 
her  walk  "so  womanly." 

So  he  stood  still  at  the  window,  and  although  the  lady 
was  far  off  in  the  garden,  and  could  not  hear  him,  he 
whispered  to  her,  telling  of  his  love.  "O  sweet,"  he  said, 
"are  you  an  earthly  creature,  or  are  you  a  goddess?    How 


A    POET    KING  169 

shall  I  do  reverence  to  you  enough,  for  I  love  you?  And 
you,  if  you  will  not  love  me  too,  why,  then,  have  you  come? 
Have  you  but  come  to  add  to  the  misery  of  a  poor 
prisoner?" 

Prince  James  looked,  and  longed,  and  sighed,  and 
envied  the  little  dog  with  which  the  lovely  lady  played. 
Then  he  scolded  the  little  birds  because  they  sang  no  more. 
"Where  are  the  songs  you  chanted  this  morning?"  he 
asked.  "Why  do  you  not  sing  now?  Do  you  not  see  that 
the  most  beautiful  lady  in  all  the  world  is  come  into  your 
garden?"  Then  to  the  nightingale  he  cried,  "Lift  up 
thine  heart  and  sing  with  good  intent.  If  thou  would  sing 
well  ever  in  thy  life,  here  is  i-faith  the  time — here  is  the 
time,  or  else  never." 

Then  it  seemed  to  the  Prince  as  if,  in  answer  to  his 
words,  all  the  birds  sang  more  sweetly  than  ever  before. 
And  what  they  sang  was  a  love-song  to  his  lady.  And 
she,  walking  under  the  tender  green  of  the  May  trees, 
looked  upward,  and  listened  to  their  sweet  songs,  while 
James  watched  her  and  loved  her  more  and  more. 

"And  when  slie  walked  had  a  little  while 
Under  the  sweet  green  boughs  bent, 
Her  fair  fresh  face  as  white  as  any  snow. 
She  turned  has,  and  forth  her  ways  went; 
But  then  began  my  sickness  and  torment 
To  see  her  go,  and  follow  I  not  might, 
Methought  the  day  was  turned  into  night." 

Then,  indeed,  the  day  was  dark  for  the  Prince.  The 
6eautiful  lady  in  going  had  left  him  more  lonely  than 
before.  Now  he  truly  knew  what  it  was  to  be  a  prisoner. 
All  day  long  he  knelt  at  the  window,  watching,  and 
longing,  and  not  knowing  by  what  means  he  might  see  his 
lady  again.  At  last  night  came,  and  worn  out  in  heart  and 
mind  he  leaned  his  head  against  the  cold  rough  stone  and 
slept. 


CHAPTER  XXIX 

THE  DEATH  OF  THE  POET  KING 

As  Prince  James  slept  he  dreamed  that  a  sudden  great 
hght  shone  into  his  prison,  making  bright  all  the  room. 
A  voice  cried,  "I  bring  thee  comfort  and  healing,  be  not 
afraid."  Then  the  light  passed  as  suddenly  as  it  had 
come,  and  the  Prince  went  forth  from  his  prison,  no  man 
saying  him  nay. 

"And  hastily  by  both  the  arms  twain 
I  was  araised  up  into  the  air, 
Caught  in  a  cloud  of  crystal  clear  and  fair." 

And  so  through  "air  and  water  and  hot  fire"  he  was 
carried,  seeing  and  hearing  many  wonders,  till  he  awoke 
to  find  himself  still  kneeling  by  his  window. 

A¥as  it  all  a  dream,  Prince  James  asked  himself,  even 
the  vision  of  the  lovely  lady  in  the  garden?  At  that 
thought  his  heart  grew  heavy.  Then,  as  if  to  comfort  him, 
a  dove  flew  in  at  his  window  carrying  in  her  mouth  a  sprig 
of  gilliflowers.  Upon  the  stalks  in  golden  letters  were 
written  the  words,  "Awake!  Awake!  lover,  I  bring  thee 
glad  news." 

And  so  the  story  had  a  happy  ending,  for  Prince  James 
knew  that  the  lovely  lady  of  the  garden  loved  him.  "And 
if  you  think,"  he  says,  "that  I  have  written  a  great  deal 
about  a  very  little  thing,  I  say  this  to  you: — 

"Who  that  from  hell  hath  creeped  once  to  heaven 
Would  after  one  thank  for  joy  not  make  six  or  seven, 
And  every  wight  his  own  sweet  or  sore 
Has  most  in  mind:  I  can  say  you  no  more." 
170 


THE  DEATH  OF  THE  POET  KING       171 

Then,  in  an  outburst  of  joy,  he  thanks  and  blesses 
everything  that  has  led  up  to  this  happy  day,  which  has 
brought  him  under  "Love's  yoke  which  easy  is  and  sure." 
Even  his  exile  and  his  prison  he  thanks. 

"And  thanked  be  the  fair  castle  wall 
7  Whereas  I  whileome  looked  forth  and  leant." 

The  King's  Qualr  reminds  us  very  much  of  Chaucer's 
work.  All  through  it  there  are  lines  which  might  have 
been  written  by  Chaucer,  and  in  the  last  verse  James  speaks 
of  Gower  and  Chaucer  as  his  "masters  dear."  Of  Gower  I 
have  said  nothing  in  this  book,  because  there  is  not  room  to 
tell  of  every  one,  and  he  is  not  so  important  as  some  or  so 
interesting  as  others.  So  I  leave  you  to  learn  about  him 
later.  It  is  to  Chaucer,  too,  much  more  than  to  Gower 
that  James  owes  his  music.  And  if  he  is  grave  like  Gower 
rather  than  merry  like  Chaucer,  we  must  remember  that 
for  nineteen  years  he  had  lived  a  captive,  so  that  it  was 
natural  his  verse  should  be  somber  as  his  life  had  been. 
And  though  there  is  no  laughter  in  this  poem,  it  shows  a 
power  of  feeling  joy  as  well  as  sorrow,  which* makes  us  sad 
when  we  remember  how  long  the  poet  was  shut  away  from 
common  human  life. 

The  King*s  Qiiair  is  written  in  verses  of  seven  lines. 
Chaucer  used  this  kind  of  verse,  but  because  King  James 
used  it  too,  and  used  it  so  well,  it  came  to  be  called  the 
Rhyme  Royal. 

King  James's  story  had  a  happy  ending.  A  story  with 
a  happy  ending  must  end  of  course  with  a  wedding,  and  so 
did  this  one.  The  King  of  England,  now  Henry  vi.,  was 
only  a  child.  But  those  who  ruled  for  him  were  quite 
pleased  when  they  heard  that  Prince  James  had  fallen  in 
love  with  the  beautiful  lady  of  the  garden,  for  she  was  the 
King's  cousin,  Lady  Jane  Beaufort.  They  set  James  free 
and  willingly  consented  that  he  should  marry  his  lady,  for 


172  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

in  this  way  they  hoped  to  bind  England  and  Scotland 
together,  and  put  an  end  to  wars  between  the  two  countries. 
So  there  was  a  very  grand  wedding  in  London  when  the 
lovely  lady  of  the  garden  became  Queen  of  Scotland.  And 
then  these  two,  a  King  and  Queen,  yet  happy  as  any  simple 
lovers,  journeyed  northward  to  their  kingdom. 

They  were  received  with  great  rejoicing  and  crowned 
at  Scone.  But  the  new  King  soon  found,  that  during  the 
long  years  he  had  been  kept  a  prisoner  in  England  his 
kingdom  had  fallen  into  wild  disorder.  Sternly  he  set 
himself  to  bring  order  out  of  disorder,  and  the  wilfull, 
lawless  nobles  soon  found  to  their  surprise  that  the  gentle 
poet  had  a  will  of  iron  and  a  hand  of  steel,  and  that  he 
could  wield  his  sword  and  scepter  as  skillfully  as  his  pen. 

James  i.  righted  much  that  was  wrong.  In  doing  it  he 
made  for  himself  many  enemies.  But  of  all  that  he  did  or 
tried  to  do  in  the  twelve  years  that  he  ruled  you  will  read 
in  history  books.    Here  I  will  only  tell  you  of  his  sad  death. 

In  1436  James  decided  to  spend  Christmas  at  Perth, 
a  tovvU  he  loved.  As  he  neared  the  river  Forth,  which  he 
had  to  cross  on  his  way,  an  aged  woman  came  to  him 
crying  in  a  loud  voice,  "My  Lord  King,  if  ye  cross  this 
water  ye  shall  never  return  again  in  life." 

XoAV  the  King  had  read  a  prophecj^  in  which  it  was  said 
that  a  King  of  Scotland  should  be  slain  that  same  year. 
So  wondering  what  this  might  mean,  he  sent  a  knight  to 
speak  with  the  woman.  But  the  knight  could  make 
nothing  of  her,  and  returning  to  the  King  he  said,  "Sir,  take 
no  heed  of  yon  woman's  words,  for  she  is  old  and  foolish, 
and  wots  not  what  she  sayeth."     So  the  King  rode  on. 

Christmas  went  by  quietly  and  peacefully,  and  the 
New  Year  came,  and  still  the  King  lingered  in  Perth. 
The  winter  days  passed  pleasantly  in  reading,  walking,  and 
tennis-playing;  the  evenings  in  chess-playing,  music,  and 
story-telling. 


THE  DEATH  OF  THE  POET  KING       173 

But  one  night,  as  James  was  chatting  and  laughing  with 
the  Queen  and  her  ladies  before  going  to  bed,  a  great  noise 
was  heard.  The  sound  of  many  feet,  the  clatter  of  armor 
mingled  with  wild  cries  was  borne  to  the  quiet  room,  and 
through  the  high  windows  flashed  the  light  of  many  torches 

At  once  the  King  guessed  that  he  was  betrayed.  The 
Queen  and  her  ladies  ran  hastily  to  the  door  to  shut  it. 
But  the  locks  had  been  broken  and  the  bolts  carried  away, 
so  that  it  could  not  be  fastened. 

In  vain  James  looked  round.  Way  of  escape  there  was 
none.  Alone,  unarmed,  he  could  neither  guard  the  ladies 
nor  save  himself.  Crying  to  them  to  keep  fast  the  door  as 
best  thej^  might,  he  sprang  to  the  window,  hoping  by  his 
great  strength  to  wrench  the  iron  bars  from  their  places 
and  escape  that  way.  But,  alas,  they  were  so  strongly  set 
in  the  stone  that  he  could  not  move  them,  "for  which  cause 
the  King  was  ugly  astonied."^ 

Then  turning  to  the  fire  James  seized  the  tongs,  "and 
under  his  feet  he  mightily  brast  up  a  plank  of  the  chamber,"^ 
and  leaping  down  into  the  vault  beneath  he  let  the  plank 
fall  again  into  its  place.  By  this  vault  the  King  might 
have  escaped,  for  until  three  days  before  there  had  been  a 
hole  leading  from  it  to  the  open  air.  But  as  he  played 
tennis  his  balls  often  rolled  into  this  hole  and  were  lost. 
So  he  had  ordered  it  to  be  built  up. 

There  was  nothing,  then,  for  the  King  to  do  but  wait. 
IMeanwhile  the  noise  grew  louder  and  louder,  the  traitors 
came  nearer  and  nearer.  One  brave  lady  named  Catherine 
Douglas,  hoping  to  keep  them  out,  and  so  save  the  King, 
thrust  her  arm  through  the  iron  loops  on  the  door  where 
the  great  bolt  should  have  been.  But  against  the  savage 
force  without,  her  frail,  white  arm  was  useless.  The  door  was 
biu'st  open.  Wounded  and  bleeding,  Catherine  Douglas 
was  thrown  aside  and  the  wild  horde  stormed  into  the  room. 

^  The  Dethe  of  the  Kynge  of  Scottis.  .         -       ^The  same. 


174  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

It  was  not  long  ere  the  King's  hiding-place  was  found, 
and  one  of  the  traitors  leaped  down  beside  him  with  a 
great  knife  in  his  hand.  "And  the  King,  doubting  him 
for  his  life,  caught  him  mightily  by  the  shoulders,  and  with 
full  great  violence  cast  him  under  his  feet.  For  the  King 
was  of  his  person  and  stature  a  man  right  manly  strong."^ 

Seeing  this,  another  traitor  leaped  down  to  help  his 
fellow.  "And  the  King  caught  him  manly  by  the  neck, 
and  cast  him  above  that  other.  And  so  he  defouled  them 
both  under  him  that  all  a  long  month  after  men  might  see 
how  strongly  the  King  had  holden  them  by  the  throats."^ 

Fiercely  the  King  struggled  with  his  enemies,  trying  to 
wrench  their  knives  from  them  so  that  he  might  defend 
himself.  But  it  was  in  vain.  Seeing  him  grow  weary  a 
third  traitor,  the  King's  greatest  enemy,  Robert  Grahame, 
leaped  down  too  into  the  vault,  "with  a  horrible  and 
mortal  weapon  in  his  hand,  and  therewithal  he  smote  him 
through  the  body,  and  therewithal  the  good  King  fell 
down."  ^ 

And  thus  the  poet  King  died  with  sixteen  wounds  in  his 
brave  heart  and  many  more  in  his  body.  So  at  the  long 
last  our  story  has  a  sad  ending.  But  we  have  to  remember 
that  for  twelve  years  King  James  had  a  happy  life,  and 
that  as  he  had  loved  his  lady  at  the  first  so  he  loved  her  to 
the  end,  and  was  true  to  her. 

Besides  Tlie  King's  Quair,  there  are  a  few  other  short 
poems  which  some  people  think  King  James  wrote.  They 
are  very  different  from  the  Quair,  being  more  like  the 
ballads  of  the  people,  and  most  people  think  now  that 
James  did  not  write  them.  But  because  they  are  different 
is  no  real  reason  for  thinking  that  they  are  not  his.  For 
James  was  quite  clever  enough,  we  may  believe,  to  write  in 
more  than  one  way. 

Besides  these  doubtful  poems,  there  is  one  other  poem 

*  The  Dethe  of  the  Kynge  of  Scottis.  The  same.  *  The  same. 


THE  DEATH  OF  THE  POET  KING       175 

of  three  verses  about  which  no  one  has  any  doubt.  I  will 
give  you  one  verse  here,  for  it  seems  in  tune  with  the 
King's  own  life  and  sudden  death. 

"Be  not  our  proud  in  thy  prosperite. 
Be   not  o'er   proud   in   thy    prosperity, 
For  as  it  cumis^  sa  will  it  pass  away; 
For   as  it   comes,    so   will    it   pass    away; 
Thj^  tym  to  compt  is  short,  thou  may  weille  se 
Thy    time  to    count    is   short,    thou  mayst    well     see 
For  of  green  gres  so3'n  cumis  walowit  hay, 
For    of    green   grass   soon  cometh  withered    hay. 
Labour  in  trewth,  quhill  licht  is  of  the  day. 
Labour    in     truth,      while     light   is   of   the  day. 
Trust  maist  in  God,  for  he  best  gyd  thee  can. 
Trust     most    in  God,    for   he   best  guide  thee    can. 
And  for  ilk  inch  he  wil  thee  quyt  a  span." 
And    for  each  inch    he  will   thee  requite  a  span. 

BOOKS   TO   READ 

An  illustration  of  this  chapter  may  be  read  The  Fair  Maid  of  Perth,  by  Sir 
Walter  Scott;  The  King's  Tragedy  (poetry),  by  D.  G.  Rossetti  in  his  Poetical 
Works.  The  best  version  of  The  King's  Quair  in  the  ancient  text  is  by  W.  W.  Skeat. 


CHAPTER  XXX 

DUNBAR— THE  WEDDING   OF   THE   THISTLE 
AND  THE  ROSE 

The  fifteenth  century,  the  century  in  which  King  James  i. 
reigned  and  died,  has  been  called  the  "Golden  Age  of 
Scottish  Poetry,"  because  of  the  number  of  poets  who 
lived  and  wrote  then.  And  so,  although  I  am  only  going 
to  speak  of  one  other  Scottish  poet  at  present,  you  must 
remember  that  there  were  at  this  time  many  more.  But 
of  them  all  William  Dunbar  is  counted  the  greatest.  And 
although  I  do  not  think  you  will  care  to  read  his  poems  for 
a  very  long  time  to  come,  I  write  about  him  here  both 
because  he  was  a  great  poet  and  because  with  one  of  his 
poems,  Tlie  Thistle  and  the  Rose,  he  takes  us  back,  as  it 
were,  over  the  Border  into  England  once  more. 

William  Dunbar  was  perhaps  born  in  1460  and  began 
his  life  when  James  iii.  began  his  reign.  He  was  of  noble 
family,  but  there  is  little  to  know  about  his  life,  and  as 
with  Chaucer,  what  we  learn  about  the  man  himself  we 
learn  chiefly  from  his  writings.  We  know,  however,  that 
he  went  to  the  University  of  St.  Andrews,  and  that  it  was 
intended  that  he  should  go  into  the  Church.  In  those  days 
in  Scotland  there  were  only  two  things  a  gentleman  might 
be — either  he  must  be  a  soldier  or  a  priest.  Dunbar's 
friends,  perhaps  seeing  that  he  was  fond  of  books,  thought 
it  best  to  make  him  a  priest.  But  indeed  he  had  made  a 
better  soldier.  For  a  time,  however,  although  he  was 
quite  unsuited  for  such  a  life,  he  became  a  friar.  As  a 
preaching  friar  he  wandered  far. 

176 


"THE  THISTLE  AND  THE  ROSE"        177 

"For  in  every  town  and  place 
Of  all  England  from  Berwick  to  Calais, 
I  have  in  my  habit  made  good  cheer. 
In  friar's  weed  full  fairly  have  I  fleichet/ 
In  it  have  I  in  pulpit  gone  and  preached. 
In  Dernton  kirk  and  eke  in  Canterbury, 
In  it  I  passed  at  Dover  o'er  the  ferry 
Througli  Picardv;  and  there  the  jjeople  teached." 

Dunbar  himself  knew  that  he  had  no  calKng  to  be  a 
friar  or  preacher.     He  confesses  that 

"As  long  as  I  did  bear  the  friar's  style 
In  me,  God  wot,  was  many  wrink  and  wile. 
In  me  was  falseness  every  wight  to  flatter. 
Which  might  be  banished  by  no  holy  water; 
I  was  aye  ready  all  men  to  beguile." 

So  after  a  time  we  find  him  no  longer  a  friar,  but  a 
courtier.  Soon  we  find  him,  like  Chaucer,  being  sent  on 
business  to  the  Continent  for  his  King,  James  iv.  Like 
Chaucer  he  receives  pensions;  like  Chaucer,  too,  he  knows 
sometimes  what  it  is  to  be  poor,  and  he  has  left  more  than 
one  poem  in  which  he  prays  the  King  to  remember  his  old 
and  faithful  servant  and  not  leave  him  in  want.  We 
find  him  also  begging  the  King  for  a  Church  living,  for 
although  he  had  no  mind  to  be  a  friar,  he  wanted  a  living, 
perhaps  merely  that  he  might  be  sure  of  a  home  in  his  old 
age.  But  for  some  reason  the  King  never  gave  him  what 
he  asked. 

We  have  nearly  ninety  poems  of  Dunbar,  none  of  them 
very  long.  But  although  he  is  a  far  better  poet  than 
Barbour,  or  even  perhaps  than  James  i.,  he  is  not  for  you 
so  interesting  in  the  meantime.  First,  his  language  is 
very  hard  to  understand.  One  reason  for  this  is  that  he 
knows  so  many  words  and  uses  them  all.  "He  language 
had  at  large,"  says  one  of  his  fellow  poets  and  countrymen.- 

*  Flattered.  ^  Sir  David   Lyndsay. 


178  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  so,  although  his  thought  is  always  clear,  it  is  not  always 
easy  to  follow  it  through  his  strange  words.  Second,  his 
charm  as  a  poet  lies  not  so  much  in  what  he  tells,  not  so 
much  in  his  story,  as  in  the  way  that  he  tells  it.  And  so, 
even  if  you  are  already  beginning  to  care  for  words  and  the 
way  in  which  they  are  used,  you  may  not  yet  care  so  much 
that  you  can  enjoy  poetry  written  in  a  tongue  which,  to  us 
is  almost  a  foreign  tongue.  But  if  some  day  you  care 
enough  about  it  to  master  this  old-world  poet,  you  will  find 
that  there  is  a  wonderful  variety  in  his  poems.  He  can  be 
glad  and  sad,  tender  and  fierce.  Sometimes  he  seems  to 
smile  gently  upon  the  sins  and  sorrows  of  his  day,  at  other 
times  he  pours  forth  upon  them  words  of  savage  scorn, 
grim  and  terrible.  But  when  we  take  all  his  work  to- 
gether, we  find  that  we  have  such  a  picture  of  the  times 
in  which  he  lived  as  perhaps  only  Chaucer  besides  has 
given  us. 

For  us  the  most  interesting  poem  is  The  Thistle  and  the 
Rose.  This  was  written  when  JMargaret,  the  daughter  of 
King  Henry  vii.  of  England,  came  to  be  the  w^ife  of  King 
James  iv.  of  Scotland.  Dunbar  was  the  "Rhymer  of 
Scotland,"  that  is  the  poet-laureate  of  his  day,  and  so,  as 
was  natural,  he  made  a  poem  upon  this  great  event. 
For  a  poet-laureate  is  the  King's  poet,  and  it  is  his  duty 
to  make  poems  on  all  the  great  things  that  may  happen  to 
the  King.  For  this  he  receives  a  certain  amount  of  money 
and  a  cask  of  wine  every  year.  But  it  is  the  honor  and 
not  the  reward  which  is  now  prized. 

Dunbar  begins  by  telling  us  that  he  lay  dreaming  one 
May  morning.  You  will  find  when  you  come  to  read 
much  of  the  poetry  of  those  days,  that  poets  were  very 
fond  of  making  use  of  a  dream  by  which  to  tell  a  story. 
It  was  then  a  May  morning  when  Dunbar  lay  asleep. 

"When  March  was  with  varying  winds  past. 
And  April  had,  with  her  silver  showers^ 


"THE  THISTLE  AND  THE  ROSE"        179 

Tanc  leave  of  nature  with  an  orient  blast; 
And  pleasant  May,  that  mother  is  of  flowers, 
Had  made  the  birds  to  begin  their  hours  ^ 
Among  the  tender  arbours  red  and  white. 
Whose  harmony  to  hear  it  was  delight." 

Then  it  seemed  that  May,  in  the  form  of  a  beautiful 
lady,  stood  beside  his  bed.  She  called  to  him,  "Sluggard, 
awake  anon  for  shame,  and  in  mine  honor  go  write  some- 
thing." 

"  'What,'  quoth  I,  'shall  I  uprise  at  morrow?' 
For  in  this  May  few  birdies  heard  I  sing. 
'They  have  more  cause  to  weep  and  plain  their  sorrow. 
Thy  air  it  is  not  wholesome  or  benign !'  " 

"Nevertheless  rise,"  said  May.  And  so  the  lazy  poet 
rose  and  followed  the  lady  into  a  lovely  garden.  Here  he 
saw  many  wonderful  and  beautiful  sights.  He  saw  all 
the  birds,  and  beasts,  and  flowers  in  the  world  pass  before 
Dame  Nature. 

"Then  called  she  all  flowers  that  grew  in  field. 
Discerning  all  their  fashions  and  properties; 
Upon  the  awful  Thistle  she  beheld. 
And  saw  him  keeped  ^  by  a  bush  of  spears; 
Considering  him  so  able  for  the  wars, 
A  radiant  crown  of  rubies  she  him  gave, 
And  said,  'In  field  go  forth,  and  fend  the  lave.^ 

And,  since  thou  art  a  king,  be  thou  discreet, 

Herb  without  virtue  hold  thou  not  of  such  price 

As  herb  of  virtue  and  of  odour  sweet; 

And  let  no  nettle  vile,  and  full  of  vice. 

Mate  him  to  the  goodly  fleur-de-lis. 

Nor  let  no  wild  weed  full  of  churlishness 

Compare  her  to  the  lily's  nobleness. 

Nor  hold  thou  no  other  flower  in  such  dainty 
As  the  fresh  Rose,  of  colour  red  and  white; 
For  if  thou  dost,  hurt  is  thine  honesty 


Orisons— morning   prayers.  'Guarded.  »  Rest=others. 


180  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Considering  that  no  flower  is  so  perfect. 
So  full  of  virtue,  pleasance  and  delight. 
So  full  of  blissful  angelic  beau^r, 
Imperial  birth,  honour  and  dignity.'  " 

By  the  Thistle,  of  course,  Dunbar  means  James  iv., 
and  by  the  Rose  the  Princess  Margaret. 

Then  to  the  Rose  Dame  Nature  spoke,  and  crowned  her 
with  "a  costly  crown  with  shining  rubies  bright."  When 
that  was  done  all  the  flowers  rejoiced,  crying  out,  "Hail 
be  thou,  richest  Rose."  Then  all  the  birds — the  thrush,  the 
lark,  the  nightingale — cried  "Hail,"  and  "the  common  voice 
uprose  of  birdies  small"  till  all  the  garden  rang  with  joy. 

"Then  all  the  birdies  sang  with  such  a  shout, 
That  I  anon  awoke  where  that  I  lay. 
And  with  a  start  I  turned  me  about 
To  see  this  court:  but  all  were  went  away: 
Then  up  I  leaned,  half  yet  in  fear, 
And  thus  I  wrote,  as  ye  have  heard  to  forrow,^ 
Of  lusty  May  upon  the  nineth  morrow." 

Thus  did  Dunbar  sing  of  the  wedding  of  the  Thistle  and 
the  Rose.  It  was  a  marriage  by  wiiich  the  two  peoples 
hoped  once  more  to  bring  a  lasting  peace  between  the  two 
countries.  And  although  the  hope  was  not  at  once 
fulfilled,  it  was  a  hundred  years  later.  For  upon  the 
death  of  Elizabeth,  James  vi.  of  Scotland,  the  great-grand- 
son of  Margaret  Tudor  and  James  Stuart,  received  the 
crown  of  England  also,  thus  joining  the  two  rival  countries. 
Then  came  the  true  marriage  of  the  Thistle  and  the  Rose. 

Meanwhile,  as  long  as  Henrj^  vii.  remained  upon  the 
throne,  there  was  peace  between  the  two  peoples.  But 
when  Henry  viii.  began  to  rule,  his  brother-in-law  of  Scot- 
land soon  found  cause  to  quarrel  with  him.  Then  once 
again  the  Thistle  and  the  Rose  met,  not  in  peace,  but  in 
war.     On  the  red  field  of  Flodden  once  again  the  blood  of 

^  Beforez=:already, 


"THE  THISTLE  AND  THE  ROSE"        181 

a  Scottish  King  stained  the  grass.  Once  again  Scotland 
was  plunged  in  tears. 

After  "that  most  dolent  day"  ^  we  hear  no  more  of 
Dunbar.  It  is  thought  by  some  that  he,  as  many  another 
knight,  courtier  and  priest,  laid  down  his  life  fighting  fot 
his  King,  and  that  he  fell  on  Flodden  field.  By  others  it 
is  thought  that  he  lived  to  return  to  Scotland,  and  that  the 
Queen  gave  to  him  one  of  the  now  many  vacant  Church 
livings,  and  that  there  he  spent  his  last  days  in  quietness 
and  peace. 

This  may  have  been  so.  For  although  Dunbar  makes 
no  mention  of  Flodden  in  his  poems,  it  is  possible  that  he 
may  have  done  so  in  some  that  are  lost.  But  where  this 
great  poet  lies  taking  his  last  rest  we  do  not  know.  It 
ma}'  be  he  was  laid  in  some  quiet  country  churchyard. 
It  may  be  he  met  death  suddenly  amid  the  din  and  horror 
of  battle. 

BOOKS  TO  READ  ' 

In  illustration  of  this  chapter  may  be  read  "Edinburgh  after  Flodden"  in  Lays 
of  the  Scottish  Cavaliers,  by  W.  E.  Aytoun.  The  best  edition  of  the  Poems  of 
Dunbar  in  the  original  is  edited  by  J.  Small. 

*Sir  David  Lyndsay 


CHAPTER  XXXI 

AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE  RED  PALE 

If  the  fifteenth  century  has  been  called  the  Golden  Age  of 
Scottish  poetry,  it  was  also  the  dullest  age  in  English 
literature.  During  the  fifteenth  century  few  books  were 
written  in  England.  One  reason  for  this  was  that  in 
England  it  was  a  time  of  foreign  and  of  civil  war.  The 
century  opened  in  war  with  Wales,  it  continued  in  war  with 
France.  Then  for  thirty  years  the  wars  of  the  Roses  laid 
desolate  the  land.  They  ended  at  length  in  1485  with 
Bosworth  field,  by  which  Henry  vii.  became  King. 

But  in  spite  of  all  the  wars  and  strife,  the  making  of 
books  did  not  quite  cease.  And  if  only  a  few  books  were 
written,  it  was  because  it  was  a  time  of  rebirth  and  new  life 
as  well  as  a  time  of  war  and  death.  For  it  was  in  the 
fifteenth  century  that  printing  was  discovered.  Then  it 
was  that  the  listening  time  was  really  done.  Men  began 
to  use  their  eyes  rather  than  their  ears.  They  saw  as  they 
had  never  before  seen. 

Books  began  to  grow  many  and  cheap.  More  and  more 
people  learned  to  read,  and  this  helped  to  settle  our  lan- 
guage into  a  form  that  was  to  last.  French  still,  although  it 
was  no  longer  the  language  of  the  court  or  of  the  people, 
had  an  influence  on  our  speech.  People  traveled  little,  and 
in  different  parts  of  the  country  diff'erent  dialects,  which 
were  almost  like  different  languages,  were  spoken.  We 
have  seen  that  the  "Inglis"  of  Scotland  differed  from 
Chaucer's    English,    and    the    language    of    the    north    of 

182 


AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE  RED  PALE        183 

England  differed  from  it  just  as  much.  But  when  printed 
books  increased  in  number  quickly,  when  every  man  could 
see  for  himself  what  the  printed  words  looked  like,  these 
differences  began  to  die  out.  Then  our  English,  as  a 
literary  language,  was  born. 

It  was  Caxton,  you  remember,  who  was  the  first  English 
printer.  We  have  already  heard  of  him  when  following 
the  Arthur  story  as  the  printer  of  Malory's  Morte  d' Arthur. 
But  Caxton  was  not  only  a  printer,  he  was  author,  editor, 
printer,  publisher  and  bookseller  all  in  one. 

Wilham  Caxton,  as  he  himself  tells  us,  was  born  in 
Kent  in  the  Weald.  But  exactty  where  or  when  we  do 
not  know,  although  it  may  have  been  about  the  year  1420. 
Neither  do  we  know  who  or  what  his  father  was.  Some 
people  think  that  he  may  have  been  a  mercer  or  cloth 
merchant,  because  later  Caxton  was  apprenticed  to  one  of 
the  richest  cloth  merchants  of  London.  In  those  days  no 
man  was  allowed  to  begin  business  for  himself  until  he  had 
served  for  a , number  of  years  as  an  apprentice.  When  he 
had  served  his  time,  and  then  only,  was  he  admitted  into 
the  company  and  allowed  to  trade  for  himself.  As  the 
Mercers'  Company  was  one  of  the  wealthiest  and  most 
powerful  of  the  merchant  companies,  they  were  very  careful 
of  whom  they  admitted  as  apprentices.  Therefore  it 
would  seem  that  really  Caxton's  family  was  "of  great 
repute  of  old,  and  genteel-like,"  as  an  old  manuscript  says.^ 

Caxton's  master  died  before  he  had  finished  his  ap- 
prenticeship, so  he  had  to  find  a  new  master,  and  very 
soon  he  left  England  and  went  to  Bruges.  There  he 
remained  for  thirty-five  years. 

In  those  days  there  was  much  trade  between  England 
and  Flanders  (Belgium  we  now  call  the  country)  in  wool 
and  cloth,  and  there  was  a  little  colony  of  English 
merchants    in    Bruges.      There    Caxton    steadily    rose    in 

»Harleian  MS.,  5910. 


184  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

importance  until  he  became  "Governor  of  the  Enghsh 
Nation  beyond  the  seas."  As  Governor  he  had  great 
power,  and  ruled  over  his  merchant  adventurers  as  if  he 
had  been  a  king. 

But  even  with  all  his  other  work,  with  his  trading  and 
ruling  to  attend  to,  Caxton  found  time  to  read  and  write, 
and  he  began  to  translate  from  the  French  a  book  of 
stories  called  the  Becuyell  ^  of  the  Histories  of  Troy.  This 
is  a  book  full  of  the  stories  of  Greek  heroes  and  of  the 
ancient  town  of  Troy. 

Caxton  was  not  very  well  pleased  with  his  work^ 
however — he  "fell  into  despair  of  it,"  he  says — and  for  two 
years  he  put  it  aside  and  wrote  no  more. 

In  1468  Princess  Margaret,  the  sister  of  King  Edward 
IV.,  married  the  Duke  of  Burgundy  and  came  to  live  in 
Flanders,  for  in  those  days  Flanders  was  under  the  rule 
of  the  Dukes  of  Burgundy.  Princess  Margaret  soon  heard 
of  the  Englishman  William  Caxton  who  had  made  his  home 
in  Bruges.  She  liked  him  and  encouraged  him  to  go  on 
with  his  writing,  and  after  a  time  he  gave  up  his  post  of 
Governor  of  the  English  and  entered  the  service  of  the 
Princess.  We  do  not  know  what  post  Caxton  held  in  the 
household  of  the  Princess,  but  it  was  one  of  honor  we 
may  feel  sure. 

It  was  at  the  bidding  of  the  Princess,  whose  "dreadful 
command  I  durst  in  no  wise  disobey,"  that  Caxton  finished 
the  translation  of  his  book  of  stories.  And  as  at  this  time 
there  were  no  stories  written  in  English  prose  (poetry  only 
being  still  used  for  stories),  the  book  was  a  great  success. 
The  Duchess  Avas  delighted  and  rewarded  Caxton  well, 
and  besides  that  so  many  other  people  wished  to  read  it 
that  he  soon  grew  tired  of  making  copies.  It  was  then 
that  he  decided  to  learn  the  new  and  wonderful  art  of 
printing,   which  was   already  known  in   Flanders.      So   it 

^  Collection,  from  the  French  word  recueillir,  to  gather. 


AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE  RED  PALE        185 

came  about  that  the  first  book  ever  printed  in  English  was 
not  printed  in  England,  but  somewhere  on  the  Continent. 
It  was  printed  some  time  before  1477,  perhaps  in  1474. 

If  in  manuscript  the  book  had  been  a  success,  it  was 
now  much  more  of  one.  And  we  may  believe  that  it  was 
this  success  that  made  Caxton  leave  Bruges  and  go  home 
to  England  in  order  to  begin  life  anew  as  a  printer  there. 

]Many  a  time,  as  Governor  of  the  English  Nation  over 
the  seas,  he  had  sent  forth  richly  laden  vessels.  But  had 
he  known  it,  none  was  so  richly  laden  as  that  which  now 
sailed  homeward  bearing  a  printing-press. 

At  Westminster,  within  the  precincts  of  the  Abbey, 
Caxton  found  a  house  and  set  up  his  printing-press.  And 
there,  not  far  from  the  great  west  door  of  the  Abbey  he, 
already  an  elderly  man,  began  his  new  busy  life.  His  house 
came  to  be  known  as  the  house  of  the  Red  Pale  from  the 
sign  that  he  set  up.  It  was  probably  a  shield  with  a  red 
line  down  the  middle  of  it,  called  in  heraldry  a  pale.  And 
from  here  Caxton  sent  out  the  first  printed  advertisement 
known  in  England.  "If  it  please  any  man  spiritual  or 
temporal,"  he  says,  to  buy  a  certain  book,  "let  him  come  to 
Westminster  in  to  the  Almonry  at  the  Red  Pale  and  he 
shall  have  them  good  cheap."  The  advertisement  ended 
with  some  Latin  words  which  we  might  translate,  "Please 
do  not  pull  down  the  advertisement." 

The  first  book  that  Caxton  is  known  to  have  printed  in 
England  was  called  The  Dictcs'^  and  Sayings  of  the  Philo- 
sophers. This  was  also  a  translation  from  French,  not, 
however,  of  Caxton's  own  writing.  It  was  translated  by 
Earl  Rivers,  who  asked  Caxton  to  revise  it,  which  he  did, 
adding  a  chapter  and  writing  a  prologue. 

To  the  people  of  Caxton's  day  printing  seemed  a 
marvelous  thing.  So  marvelous  did  it  seem  that  some 
of  them  thought  it  could  only  be  done  by  the  help  of  evil 

^  Another  word   for  sayings,   from  the  French  dire,  to  say. 


186  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

spirits.  It  is  strange  to  think  that  in  those  days,  when 
anything  new  and  wonderful  was  discovered,  people  at^ 
once  thought  that  it  must  be  the  work  of  evil  spirits. 
That  it  might  be  the  work  of  good  spirits  never  seemed  to 
occur  to  them. 

Printing,  indeed,  was  a  wonderful  thing.  For  now, 
instead  of  taking  weeks  and  months  to  make  one  copy  of  a 
book,  a  man  could  make  dozens  or  even  hundreds  at  once. 
And  this  made  books  so  cheap  that  many  more  people 
could  buy  them,  and  so  people  were  encouraged  both  to 
read  and  write.  Instead  of  gathering  together  to  hear  one 
man  read  out  of  a  book,  each  man  could  buy  a  copy  for 
himself.  At  the  end  of  one  of  his  books  Caxton  begs  folk 
to  notice  "that  it  is  not  written  with  pen  and  ink  as  other 
books  be,  to  the  end  that  every  man  may  have  them  at 
once.  For  all  the  books  of  this  story  called  the  Recuyell 
of  the  Histories  of  Troy  thus  imprinted  as  ye  see  here  were 
begLin  on  one  day  and  also  finished  in  one  day."  We  who 
live  in  a  world  of  books  can  hardly  grasp  what  that  meant 
to  the  people  of  Caxton's  time. 

For  fourteen  years  Caxton  lived  a  busy  life,  translating, 
editing,  and  printing.  Besides  that  he  must  have  led  a 
busy  social  life,  for  he  was  a  favorite  with  Edward  iv., 
and  with  his  successors  Richard  iii.  and  Henry  vii.  too. 
Great  nobles  visited  his  workshop,  sent  him  gifts,  and 
eagerly  bought  and  read  his  books.  The  wealthy 
merchants,  his  old  companions  in  trade,  were  glad  still  to 
claim  him  as  a  friend.  Great  ladies  courted,  flattered,  and 
encouraged  him.  He  married,  too,  and  had  children, 
though  we  know  nothing  of  his  home  life.  Altogether  his 
days  were  full  and  busy,  and  we  may  believe  that  he  was 
happy. 

But  at  length  Caxton's  useful,  busy  life  came  to  an  end. 
On  the  last  day  of  it  he  was  still  translating  a  book  from 
French.     He  finished  it  only  a  few  hours  before  he  died- 


'GREAT   NOBLES   VISITED    CAXTON'S    WORKSHOP.' 


AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE  RED  PALE       187 

We  know  this,  although  we  do  not  know  the  exact  date  of 
his  death.  For  his  pupil  and  follower,  who  carried  on  his 
work  afterwards,  says  on  the  title-page  of  this  book  that  it 
was  "finished  at  the  last  day  of  his  life." 

Caxton  was  buried  in  the  church  near  which  he  had 
worked — St.  IMargaret's,  Westminster.  He  was  laid  to 
rest  with  some  ceremony  as  a  man  of  importance,  for  in 
the  account-books  of  the  parish  we  find  these  entries: — 

"At  burying  of  William  Caxton  for  four  torches  6s.  8d. 
For  the  bell  at  same  burying  6'd." 

This  was  much  more  than  was  usually  spent  at  the 
burial  of  ordinary  people  in  those  days. 

Among  the  many  books  which  Caxton  printed  we  must 
not  forget  Sir  Thomas  Malory's  Morte  d' Arthur,  which  we 
spoke  of  out  of  its  place  in  following  the  story  of  Arthur  in 
chapter  viii.  Perhaps  you  w^ould  like  to  turn  back  and 
read  it  over  again  now. 

As  we  have  said,  Caxton  was  not  merely  a  printer. 
He  was  an  author  too.  But  although  he  translated  books 
both  from  French  and  Dutch,  it  is  perhaps  to  his  delightful 
prefaces  more  than  to  anj^thing  else  that  he  owes  his  title 
of  author.  Yet  it  must  be  owned  that  sometimes  they  are 
not  all  quite  his  own,  but  parts  are  taken  wholesale  from 
other  men's  works  or  are  translated  from  the  French.  We 
are  apt  to  look  upon  a  preface  as  something  dull  which 
may  be  left  unread.  But  when  you  come  to  read  Caxton's 
books,  you  may  perhaps  like  his  prefaces  as  much  as  any- 
thing else  about  them.  In  one  he  tells  of  his  difficulties 
about  the  language,  because  different  people  spoke  it  so 
differently.  He  tells  how  once  he  began  to  translate  a 
book,  but  "when  I  saw  the  fair  and  strange  terms  therein, 
I  doubted  that  it  should  not  please  some  gentlemen  which 
late  blamed  me,  saying  that  in  my  translations  I  had  over 
curious  terms,  which  could  not  be  understood  by  common 


188  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

people,  and  desired  me  to  use  old  and  homely  terms  in  my 
translations.  And  fain  would  I  satisfy  every  man.  And 
so  to  do  I  took  an  old  book  and  read  therein,  and  certainly 
the  English  was  so  rude  and  broad  that  I  could  not  well 
understand  it.  .  .  .  And  certainly  our  language  now 
used  varieth   far  from  that  which  was  used   and   spoken 

when  I  was  born And  that  common  English  that  is 

spoken  in  one  shire  varyeth  from  another.  In-so-much 
that  in  my  days  it  happened  that  certain  merchants  were 
in  a  ship  in  Thames,  for  to  have  sailed  over  the  sea  into 
Zealand.  For  lack  of  wind  they  tarried  at  Foreland,  and 
went  to  land  for  to  refresh  them. 

"And  one  of  them,  named  Sheffield,  a  mercer,  came 
into  an  house  and  asked  for  meat.  And  especially  he 
asked  for  eggs.  And  the  good  wife  answered  that  she 
could  speak  no  French.  And  the  merchant  was  angry,  for 
he  also  could  speak  no  French,  but  would  have  had  eggs, 
and  she  understood  him  not. 

"And  then  at  last  another  said  that  he  would  have 
eyren.  Then  the  good  wife  said  that  she  understood  him 
well.  So  what  should  a  man  in  these  days  now  write, 
eggs  or  eyren?  Certainly  it  is  hard  to  please  every  man 
by  cause  of  diversity  and  change  of  language.  .  .  . 

"And  some  honest  and  great  clerks  have  been  with  me, 
and  desired  me  to  write  the  most  curious  terms  that  I 
could  find.  And  thus  between  plain,  rude,  and  curious  I 
stand  abashed.  But  in  my  judgement  the  common  terms 
that  be  daily  used,  be  lighter  to  be  understood  than  the  old 
and  ancient  English." 

In  another  book  Caxton  tells  us  that  he  knows  his 
own  "simpleness  and  unperfectness"  in  both  French  and 
English.  "For  in  France  was  I  never,  and  was  born  and 
learned  my  English  in  Kent,  in  the  Weald,  where  I  doubt 
not  is  spoken  as  broad  and  rude  English  as  in  any  place  in 
England." 


AT  THE  SIGN  OF  THE  RED  PALE       189 

So  you  see  our  English  was  by  no  means  yet  settled. 
But  printing,  perhaps,  did  more  than  anything  else  to 
settle  it. 

We  know  that  Caxton  printed  at  least  one  hundred  and 
two  editions  of  books.  And  j^ou  will  be  surprised  to  hear 
that  of  all  these  only  two  or  three  were  books  of  poetry. 
Here  we  have  a  sure  sign  that  the  singing  time  was  nearly 
over.  I  do  not  mean  that  we  are  to  have  no  more  singers, 
for  most  of  our  greatest  are  still  to  come.  But  from  this 
time  prose  had  shaken  off  its  fetters.  It  was  no  longer  to 
be  used  only  for  sermons,  for  prayers,  for  teaching.  It 
was  to  take  its  place  beside  poetry  as  a  means  of  enjoy- 
ment— as  literature.  Literature,  then,  was  no  longer  the 
affair  of  the  market-place  and  the  banqueting-hall,  but  of 
a  man's  own  fireside  and  quiet  study.  It  was  no  longer 
the  affair  of  the  crowd,  but  of  each  man  to  himself  alone. 

The  chief  poems  which  Caxton  printed  were  Chaucer's. 
In  one  place  he  calls  Chaucer  "The  worshipful  father  and 
first  founder  and  embellisher  of  ornate  eloquence  in  our 
English."  Here,  I  think,  he  shows  that  he  was  trying  to 
follow  the  advice  of  "those  honest  and  great  clerks"  who 
told  him  he  should  write  "the  most  curious  terms"  that  he 
could  find.  But  certainly  he  admired  Chaucer  very  greatly. 
In  the  preface  to  his  second  edition  of  the  Canterbury  Tales 
he  says,  "Great  thank,  laud  and  honour  ought  to  be  given 
unto  the  clerks,  poets"  and  others  who  have  written 
"noble  books."  "Among  whom  especially  before  all  others, 
we  ought  to  give  a  singular  laud  unto  that  noble  and  great 
philosopher,  Geoffrey  Chaucer."  Then  Caxton  goes  on  to 
tell  us  how  hard  he  had  found  it  to  get  a  correct  copy  of 
Chaucer's  poems,  "For  I  find  many  of  the  said  books  which 
writers  have  abridged  it,  and  many  things  left  out:  and  in 
some  places  have  set  verses  that  he  never  made  nor  set  in 
his  book." 

This  shows  us  how  quickly  stories  became  changed  in 


190  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  days  when  everything  was  copied  by  hand.  When 
Caxton  wrote  these  words  Chaucer  had  not  been  dead 
more  than  about  eighty  years,  yet  abeady  it  was  not  easy 
to  find  a  good  copy  of  his  works. 

And  if  stories  changed,  the  language  changed  just  as 
quickly.  Caxton  tells  us  that  the  language  was  changing 
so  fast  that  he  found  it  hard  to  read  books  written  at  the 
time  he  was  born.  His  own  language  is  very  Frenchy, 
perhaps  because  he  translated  so  many  of  his  books  from 
French.  He  not  only  uses  words  which  are  almost  French, 
but  arranges  his  sentences  in  a  French  manner.  He  often, 
too,  drops  the  e  in  the,  just  as  in  French  the  ^  or  a  in  le  and 
la  is  dropped  before  a  vowel.  This  you  will  often  find  in 
old  English  books.  "The  abbey"  becomes  thahhay,  "the 
English"  thenglisli.  Caxton  writes,  too,  theiisygnementys 
for  "the  teaching."  Here  we  have  the  dropped  e  and  also 
the  French  word  enseignement  used  instead  of  "teach- 
ing." But  these  were  only  last  struggles  of  a  foreign 
tongue.  The  triumphant  English  we  now  possess  was 
already  taking  form. 

But  it  was  not  by  printing  alone  that  in  the  fifteenth 
century  men's  eyes  were  opened  to  new  wonder.  They 
were  also  opened  to  the  wonder  of  new  worlds  far  over  the 
sea.  For  the  fifteenth  century  was  the  age  of  discovery, 
and  of  all  the  world's  first  great  sailors.  It  was  the  time 
when  America  and  the  western  isles  were  discovered,  when 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope  was  first  rounded,  and  the  new  way 
to  India  found.  So  with  the  whole  world  urged  to  action 
by  the  knowledge  of  these  new  lands,  with  imagination 
wakened  by  the  tales  of  marvels  to  be  seen  there,  with  a 
new  desire  to  see  and  do  stirring  in  men's  minds,  it  was  not 
wonderful  that  there  should  be  little  new  writing.  The 
fifteenth  century  was  the  age  of  new  action  and  new  worlds. 
The  new  thouglit  was  to  follow. 


CHAPTER  XXXII 

ABOUT  THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  THEATER 

Many  of  you  have,  no  doubt,  been  to  the  theater.  You 
have  seen  pantomimes  and  Peter  Pan,  perhaps;  perhaps, 
too,  a  play  of  Shakespeare, — a  comedy,  it  may  be,  which 
made  you  laugh,  or  even  a  tragedy  which  made  you  want 
to  cry,  or  at  least  left  you  sad.  Some  of  you,  too,  have  been 
to  "Pageants,"  and  some  may  even  have  been  to  an 
oratorio,  which  last  may  have  been  sung  in  a  church. 

But  did  you  ever  wonder  how  plays  and  theaters  came 
to  be?  Did  you  ever  think  that  there  was  a  time  when  in 
all  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land  there  was  no  theater, 
when  there  were  no  plays  either  merry  or  sad?  Yet  it 
was  so.  But  at  a  very  early  time  the  people  of  England 
began  to  act.  And,  strange  as  it  may  seem  to  us  now, 
the  earliest  plays  were  acted  by  monks  and  took  place  in 
church.  And  it  is  from  these  very  early  monkish  plays 
that  the  theater  with  its  different  kinds  of  plays,  that 
pageants  and  even  oratorios  have  sprung. 

In  this  chapter  I  am  going  to  talk  about  these  begin- 
nings of  the  English  theater  and  of  its  literature.  All 
plays  taken  together  are  called  the  drama,  and  the  writers 
of  them  are  called  dramatists,  from  a  Greek  word  draii,  to 
act  or  do.  For  dramas  are  written  not  to  be  read  merely, 
but  also  to  be  acted. 

To  trace  the  English  drama  from  its  beginnings  we 
must  go  a  long  way  back  from  the  reigns  of  Henry  vii.  and 
of  Henry  viii.,  down  to  which  the  life  of  Dunbar  has 
brought   us.      We   must   go   back   to   the    days   when   the 

191 


192  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

priests  were  the  only  learned  people  in  the  land,  when  the 
monasteries  were  the  only  schools. 

If  we  would  picture  to  ourselves  what  these  first  English 
plays  were  like,  we  must  not  think  of  a  brilliantly  lighted 
theater  pranked  out  and  fine  v>'ith  red  and  gold  and  white 
such  as  we  know.  We  must  think  rather  of  some  dim  old 
church.  Stately  pillars  rise  around  us,  and  the  outline  of 
the  arches  is  lost  in  the  high  tv/ilight  of  the  roof.  Behind 
the  quaintly  dressed  players  gleams  the  great  crucifix  with 
its  strange,  sad  figure  and  outstretched  arms  which,  under 
the  flickering  light  of  the  high  altar  candles,  seems  to  stir 
to  life.  And  beyond  the  circle  of  light,  in  the  soft  darkness 
of  the  nave,  the  silent  people  kneel  or  stand  to  watch. 

It  was  in  such  solemn  surroundings  that  our  first  plays 
were  played.  And  the  stories  that  were  acted  were  Bible 
stories.  There  was  no  thought  of  irreverence  in  such  act- 
ing. On  the  contrary,  these  plays  were  performed  "to 
exort  the  mindes  of  common  people  to  good  devotion  and 
holesome  doctrine." 

You  remember  when  Caedmon  sang,  he  made  his  songs 
of  the  stories  of  Genesis  and  Exodus.  And  in  this  way, 
in  those  bookless  days,  the  people  were  taught  the  Bible 
stories.  But  you  know  that  w^hat  we  learn  by  our  ears  is 
much  harder  to  remember  than  what  we  learn  by  our  eyes. 
If  we  are  only  told  a  thing  we  may  easily  forget  it.  But  if 
we  have  seen  it,  or  seen  a  picture  of  it,  we  remember  it 
much  more  easily.  In  those  far-off  days,  however,  there 
were  as  few  pictures  as  there  were  books  in  England.  And 
so  the  priests  and  monks  fell  upon  the  plan  of  acting  the 
Bible  stories  and  the  stories  of  the  saints,  so  that  the  people 
might  see  and  better  understand. 

These  plays  which  the  monks  made  were  called  Mystery 
or  Miracle  plays.  I  cannot  tell  you  the  exact  date  of  our 
first  Miracle  plays,  but  the  earliest  that  we  know  of 
certainly  was  acted  at  the  end  of  the  eleventh  or  beginning 


THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE  THEATER    193 

of  the  twelfth  century.  It  is  not  unreasonable  to  suppose, 
however,  that  there  had  been  still  earlier  plays  of  which  we 
know  nothing.  For  the  INliracle  plays  did  not  spring  all 
at  once  to  life,  they  began  gradually,  and  the  beginnings 
can  be  traced  as  far  back  as  the  ninth  century.  In  an  old 
book  of  rules  for  Winchester  Cathedral,  written  about  959, 
there  are  directions  given  for  showing  the  death  and 
resurrection  of  Christ  in  dumb  show  chiefly,  with  just  a 
few  Latin  sentences  to  explain  it.  By  degrees  these  plays 
grew  longer  and  fuller,  until  in  them  the  whole  story  of 
man  from  the  Creation  to  the  Day  of  Judgment  was  acted 
in  what  was  called  a  cycle  or  circle  of  short  acts  or  plays. 

But  although  these  plays  were  looked  upon  as  an  act  of 
religion,  they  were  not  all  solemn.  At  times,  above  the 
grave  tones  of  the  monks  or  the  solemn  chanting  of  the 
choir,  laughter  rang  out.  For  some  of  the  characters  were 
meant  to  be  funny,  and  the  watching  crowd  knew  and 
greeted  them  as  such  even  before  they  spoke,  just  as  we 
know  and  greet  the  jester  or  the  clown. 

The  demons  were  generally  funny,  and  Noah's  wife, 
who  argued  about  going  into  the  ark.  The  shepherds,  also, 
watching  their  flocks  by  night,  were  almost  sure  to  make 
the  people  laugh. 

But  there  were  solemn  moments,  too,  when  the  people 
reverently  listened  to  the  grave  words  of  God  the  Father, 
or  to  those,  tender  and  loving,  of  Mary,  the  Virgin  Mother. 
And  when  the  shepherds  neared  the  manger  where  lay  the 
wondrous  Babe,  all  jesting  ceased.  Here  there  was  nothing 
but  tender,  if  simple  and  unlearned,  adoration. 

In  those  early  days  Latin  was  the  tongue  of  the  Church, 
and  the  IMiracle  plays  were  at  first  said  in  Latin.  But  as 
the  common  folk  could  not  understand  what  was  said,  the 
plays  were  chiefly  shown  in  dumb  show.  Soon,  however, 
Latin  was  given  up,  and  the  plays  were  acted  in  English. 
Then  by  degrees  the  churches  grew  too  small  to  hold  the 


194  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

great  crowds  of  people  who  wished  to  see  the  plays,  and  so 
they  were  acted  outside  the  church  door  in  the  churchyard, 
on  a  stage  built  level  with  the  steps.  The  church,  then, 
could  be  made  to  represent  heaven,  where  God  and  the 
angels  dwelt.  The  stage  itself  was  the  world,  and  below 
it  was  hell,  from  out  of  which  came  smoke  and  sometimes 
flames,  and  whence  might  be  heard  groans  and  cries  and 
the  clanking  of  chains. 

But  the  playing  of  Mysteries  and  Miracles  at  the  church 
doors  had  soon  to  be  given  up.  For  the  people,  in  their 
excitement,  forgot  the  respect  due  to  the  dead.  They 
trampled  upon  the  graves  and  destroyed  the  tombs  in  their 
eagerness  to  see.  And  when  the  play  was  over  the  grave- 
yard was  a  sorry  sight  with  trodden  grass  and  broken 
headstones.  So  by  degrees  it  came  about  that  these  plays 
lost  their  connection  with  the  churches,  and  were  no  more 
played  in  or  near  them.  They  were,  instead,  played  in 
some  open  space  about  the  town,  such  as  the  market-place. 
Then,  too,  the  players  ceased  to  be  monks  and  priests,  and 
the  acting  was  taken  up  by  the  people  themselves.  It  was 
then  that  the  playing  came  into  the  hands  of  the  trade  guilds. 

Nowadays  we  hear  a  great  deal  about  "trades  unions." 
But  in  those  far-off  days  such  things  were  unknown.  Each 
trade,  however,  had  its  own  guild  by  which  the  members  of 
it  were  bound  together.  Each  guild  had  its  patron  saint, 
and  after  a  time  the  members  of  a  guild  began  to  act  a 
play  on  their  saint's  day  in  his  honor.  Later  still  the 
guilds  all  worked  together,  and  all  acted  their  plays  on  one 
day.  This  was  Corpus  Christi  Day,  a  feast  founded  by 
Pope  Urban  iv.  in  1264.  As  this  feast  was  in  summer,  it 
was  a  very  good  time  to  act  the  plays,  for  the  weather  was 
warm  and  the  days  were  long.  The  plays  often  began 
very  early  in  the  morning  as  soon  as  it  was  light,  and  lasted 
all  day. 

The   Miracles    were    now    acted    on    a   movable    stage. 


THE   BEGINNING  OF   THE   THEATER  195 

This  stage  was  called  a  pageant,  and  the  play  which  was 
acted  on  it  was  also  in  time  called  a  pageant.  The  stage 
was  made  in  two  stories.  The  upper  part  was  open  all 
round,  and  upon  this  the  acting  took  place.  The  under 
part  was  curtained  all  round,  and  here  the  actors  dressed. 
From  here,  too,  they  came  out,  and  when  they  had  finished 
their  parts  they  went  back  again  within  the  curtains. 

The  movable  stages  were,  of  course,  not  very  large, 
so  sometimes  more  than  one  was  needed  for  a  play.  At 
other  times  the  players  overflowed,  as  it  were,  into  the 
audience.  "Here  Herod  rages  on  the  pageant  and  in  the 
street  also"  is  one  stage  direction.  The  devils,  too,  often 
ran  among  the  people,  partly  to  amuse  them  and  partly 
to  frighten  and  show  them  what  might  happen  if  they 
remained  wicked.  At  the  Creation,  animals  of  all  kinds 
which  had  been  kept  chained  up  were  let  loose  suddenly, 
and  ran  among  the  people,  while  pigeons  set  free  from 
cages  flew  over  their  heads.  Indeed,  everything  seems 
to  have  been  done  to  make  the  people  feel  the  plays  as 
real  as  possible. 

The  pageants  were  on  wheels,  and  as  soon  as  a  play  was 
over  at  the  first  appointed  place,  the  stage  was  dragged  by 
men  to  the  next  place  and  the  play  again  began.  In  an  old 
MS.  we  are  told,  "The  places  where  they  played  them  was 
in  every  streete.  They  begane  first  at  the  abay  gates,  and 
when  the  first  pagiante  was  played,  it  was  wheeled  to  the 
highe  crosse  befor  the  mayor,  and  soe  to  every  streete. 
And  soe  every  streete  had  a  pagiant  playinge  before  them 
at  one  time,  till  all  the  pagiantes  for  the  daye  appoynted 
weare  played.  And  when  one  pagiante  was  neare  ended 
worde  was  broughte  from  streete  to  streete,  that  soe  they 
mighte  come  in  place  thereof,  exceedinge  orderly.  And 
all  the  streetes  have  theire  pagiantes  afore  them  all  at  one 
time  playinge  togeather."  ^ 

^Harleian  MS.,  1948. 


196  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Thus,  if  a  man  kept  his  place  all  a  long  summer's  day, 
he  might  see  pass  before  him  pageant  after  pageant  until 
he  had  seen  the  whole  story  of  the  world,  from  the  Creation 
to  the  Day  of  Judgment. 

In  time  nearly  every  town  of  any  size  in  England  had 
its  own  cycle  of  plays,  but  only  four  of  these  have  come 
down  to  us.  These  are  the  York,  the  Chester,  the  Wake- 
field, and  the  Coventry  cycles.  Perhaps  the  most  interest- 
ing of  them  all  are  the  Wakefield  plays.  They  are  also 
called  the  Townley  plays,  from  the  name  of  the  family 
who  possessed  the  manuscript  for  a  long  time. 

Year  after  year  the  same  guild  acted  the  same  play. 
And  it  really  seemed  as  if  the  pageant  was  in  many  cases 
chosen  to  suit  the  trade  of  the  players.  The  water-drawers 
of  Chester,  for  instance,  acted  the  Flood.  In  York  the 
shipwrights  acted  the  building  of  the  ark,  the  fishmongers 
the  Flood,  and  the  gold-beaters  and  money-workers  the 
three  Kings  out  of  the  East. 

The  members  of  each  guild  tried  to  make  their  pageant 
as  fine  as  they  could.  Indeed,  they  were  expected  to  do 
so,  for  in  1394  we  find  the  ^layor  of  York  ordering  the 
craftsmen  "to  bring  forth  their  pageants  in  order  and  course 
by  good  players,  well  arrayed  and  openly  speaking,  upon 
pain  of  losing  of  100  shillings,  to  be  paid  to  the  chamber 
without  any  pardon."  ^ 

So,  in  order  to  supply  everything  that  was  needful,  each 
member  of  a  guild  paid  what  was  called  "pageant  silver." 
Accounts  of  how  this  money  was  spent  were  carefully 
kept.  A  few  of  these  have  come  down  to  us,  and  some 
of  the  items  and  prices  paid  sound  very  funny  now. 

"Paid  for  setting  the  world  of  fire  5d. 
For  making  and  mending  of  the  black  souls  hose  6d. 

'  Thomas  Sharp,  Dissertation  on  the  Pageants. 


THE    DEMONS    WERE    GENERALLY   FUNNY.' 


THE  BEGINNING  OF  THE   THEATER  197 

For  a  pair  of  new  hose  and  mending  of  the  old  for  the  white 

souls  18d. 
Paid  for  mending  Pilate's  hat  4d." 

The  actors,  too,  were  paid.  Here  are  some  of  the 
prices : — 

"To  Fawson  for  hanging  Judas  4d. 
Paid  to  Fawson  for  cock  crowing  4d." 

Some  got  much  more  than  others.  Pilate,  for  instance, 
who  was  an  important  character,  got  4s.,  while  two  angels, 
only  got  8d.  between  them.  But  while  the  rehearsing  and 
acting  were  going  on  the  players  received  their  food,  and 
when  it  was  all  over  they  wound  up  with  a  great  supper. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 

HOW  THE  SHEPHERDS  WATCHED  THEIR  FLOCKS 

In  this  chapter  I  am  going  to  give  you  a  part  of  one  of  the 
Townley  plays  to  show  you  what  the  beginnings  of  our 
drama  were  like. 

Although  our  forefathers  tried  to  make  the  pageants  as 
real  as  possible,  they  had,  of  course,  no  scenery,  but  acted 
on  a  little  bare  platform.  They  never  thought  either  that 
the  stories  they  acted  had  taken  place  long  ago  and  in  lands 
far  away,  where  dress  and  manners  and  even  climate 
were  all  very  different  from  what  they  were  in  England. 

For  instance,  in  the  Shepherd's  play,  of  which  I  am 
going  to  tell,  the  first  shepherd  comes  in  shivering  with 
cold.  For  though  he  is  acting  in  summer  he  must  make 
believe  that  it  is  Christmas-time,  for  on  Christmas  Day 
Christ  was  born.  And  Christmas-time  in  England,  he 
knows,  is  cold.  What  it  may  be  in  far-off  Palestine  he 
neither  knows  nor  cares. 

"Lord^  what  these  weathers  are  cold!  and  I  am  ill  happed; 
I  am  near  hand  dulled  so  long  have  I  napped; 
My  legs  they  fold^  my  fingers  are  chapped, 
It  is  not  as  I  would,  for  I  am  all  lapped 

In  sorrow. 
In  storm  and  tempest, 
Now  in  the  east,  now  in  the  west. 
Woe  is  him  has  never  rest 
Mid-day  or  morrow." 

In  this  strain  the  shepherd  grumbles  until  the  second 
comes.     He,  too,  complains  of  the  cold. 

198 


THE  SHEPHERDS'  WATCH  199 

"The  frost  so  hideous^  they  water  mine  ten, 
No  lie! 
Now  is  dry,  now  is  wet. 
Now  is  snow,  now  is  sleet. 
When  my  shoon  freeze  to  my  feet, 
It  is  not  all  easy." 

So  they  talk  until  the  third  shepherd  comes.  He,  too, 
grumbles. 

"Was  never  syne  Noah's  floods  such  floods  seen; 
Winds  and  rains  so  rude,  and  storms  so  keen." 

The  first  two  ask  the  third  shepherd  where  the  sheep 
are.     "Sir,"  he  replies, 

"This  same  day  at  morn 
I  left  them  i  the  corn 

When  they  rang  lauds. 
They  had  pasture  good  they  cannot  go  wrong." 

That  is  all  right,  say  the  others,  and  so  they  settle  to 
sing  a  song,  when  a  neighbor  named  Mak  comes  along. 
They  greet  the  newcomer  with  jests.  But  the  second 
shepherd  is  suspicious  of  him. 

"Thus  late  as  thou  goes. 
What  will  men  suppose.'' 
And  thou  hast  no  ill  nose 
For  stealing  of  sheep." 

'T  am  true  as  steel,"  says  Mak.  "All  men  wot  it.  But 
a  sickness  I  feel  that  holds  me  full  hot,"  and  so,  he  says,  he 
is  obliged  to  walk  about  at  night  for  coolness. 

The  shepherds  are  all  very  weary  and  want  to  sleep. 
But  just  to  make  things  quite  safe,  they  bid  INIak  lie  down 
between  them  so  that  he  cannot  move  without  awaking 
them.  Mak  lies  down  as  he  is  bid,  but  he  does  not  sleep, 
and  as  soon  as  the  others  are  all  snoring  he  softly  rises  and 
"borrows"  a  sheep. 

Quickly  he  goes  home  with  it  and  knocks  at  his  cottage 
door.    "How,  Gill,  art  thou  in?    Get  us  a  light." 


200  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"Who  makes  such  din  this  time  of  night?"  answers  his 
wife  from  within. 

When  she  hears  that  it  is  Mak  she  unbars  the  door,  but 
when  she  sees  what  her  husband  brings  she  is  afraid. 

"By  the  naked  neck  thou  art  like  to  hang,"  she  says. 

"I  have  often  escaped  before,"  rephes  Mak. 

"But  so  long  goes  the  pot  tO  the  water,  men  say,  at  last 
comes  it  home  broken,"  cries  Gill. 

But  the  question  is,  now  that  they  have  the  sheep, 
how  is  it  to  be  hid  from  the  shepherds.  For  Mak  feels  sure 
that  they  will  suspect  him  when  they  find  out  that  a  sheep 
is  missing. 

Gill  has  a  plan.  She  will  swaddle  the  sheep  like  a  new- 
born baby  and  lay  it  in  the  cradle.  This  being  done,  Mak 
returns  to  the  shepherds,  whom  he  finds  still  sleeping,  and 
lies  down  again  beside  them.  Presently  they  all  awake 
and  rouse  JMak,  who  still  pretends  to  sleep.  He,  after  some 
talk,  goes  home,  and  the  shepherds  go  off  to  seek  and  count 
their  sheep,  agreeing  to  meet  again  at  the  "crooked  thorn." 

Soon  the  shepherds  find  that  one  sheep  is  missing,  and 
suspecting  JNIak  of  having  stolen  it  they  follow  him  home. 
They  find  him  sitting  by  the  cradle  singing  a  lullaby  to 
the  new-born  baby,  while  Gill  lies  in  bed  groaning  and 
pretending  to  be  very  ill.  Mak  greets  the  shepherds  in  a 
friendly  way,  but  bids  them  speak  softly  and  not  walk 
about,  as  his  wife  is  ill  and  the  baby  asleep. 

But  the  shepherds  will  not  be  put  off  with  words. 
They  search  the  house,  but  can  find  nothing. 

"All  work  we  in  vain  as  well  may  we  go. 
Bother  it! 
I  can  find  no  flesh 
Hard  or  nesh/ 
Salt  or  fresh. 

But  two  toom  ^  platters." 

»  Soft.  "  Empty. 


THE  SHEPHERDS'  WATCH  201 

Meanwhile,  Gill  from  her  bed  cries  out  at  them,  calling 
them  thieves.  "Ye  come  to  rob  us.  I  swear  if  ever  I  you 
l)eguiled,  that  I  eat  this  child  that  lies  in  this  cradle." 

The  shepherds  at  length  begin  to  be  sorry  that  they  have 
been  so  unjust  as  to  suspect  Mak.  They  wish  to  make 
friends  again.  But  Mak  will  not  be  friends.  "Farewell, 
all  three,  and  glad  I  am  to  see  you  go,"  he  cries. 

So  the  shepherds  go  a  little  sadly.  "Fair  winds  may 
there  be,  but  love  there  is  none  this  year,"  says  one. 

"Gave  ye  the  child  anything?"  says  another. 

"I  trow  not  a  farthing." 

"Then  back  will  I  go,"  says  the  third  shepherd,  "abide 
ye  there." 

And  back  he  goes  full  of  his  kindly  thought.  "Mak," 
he  says,  "with  your  leave  let  me  give  your  bairn  but 
sixpence." 

But  Mak  still  pretends  to  be  sulky,  and  will  not  let  him 
come  near  the  child.  By  this  time  all  the  shepherds  have 
come  back.  One  wants  to  kiss  the  baby,  and  bends  over 
the  cradle.  Suddenly  he  starts  back.  What  a  nose! 
The  deceit  is  found  out  and  the  shepherds  are  very  angry. 
Yet  even  in  their  anger  thej'-  can  hardly  help  laughing. 
Mak  and  Gill,  however,  are  ready  of  wit.  They  will  not 
own  to  the  theft.    It  is  a  changeling  child,  they  say. 

"He  was  taken  with  an  elf, 
5  I  saw  it  myself. 

When  the  clock  struck  twelve  was  he  foreshapen," 

says  Gill. 

But  the  shepherds  will  not  be  deceived  a  second  time. 
They  resolve  to  punish  ]Mak,  but  let  him  off  after  having 
tossed  him  in  a  blanket  until  they  are  tired  and  he  is  sore 
and  sorry  for  himself. 

This  sheepstealing  scene  shows  how  those  who  wrote 
the  play  tried  to  catch  the  interest  of  the  people.     For 


202  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

every  one  who  saw  this  scene  could  understand  it.  Sheep- 
steahng  was  a  very  common  crime  in  England  in  those 
days,  and  was  often  punished  by  death.  Probably  every 
one  who  saw  the  play  knew  of  such  cases,  and  the  writers 
used  this  scene  as  a  link  between  the  everyday  life,  which 
was  near  at  hand  and  easy  to  understand,  and  the  story 
of  the  birth  of  Christ,  which  was  so  far  off  and  hard  to 
understand. 

And  it  is  now,  when  the  shepherds  are  resting  from  their 
hard  work  of  beating  Mak,  that  they  hear  the  angels  sing 
"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest."  From  this  point  on  all  the 
jesting  ceases,  and  in  its  rough  way  the  play  is  reverent  and 
loving. 

The  angel  speaks. 

"Rise,  herdmen,  quickly,  for  now  is  he  born 
That  shall  take  from  the  fiend  what  Adam  was  lorn; 
That  demon  to  spoil  this  night  is  he  born, 
God  is  made  your  friend  now  at  this  morn. 

He  behests 
At  Bethlehem  go  see. 
There  lies  that  fre  ^ 
In  a  crib  full  poorly 

Betwixt  two  beasties." 

The  shepherds  hear  the  words  of  the  angel,  and  looking 
upward  see  the  guiding  star.  Wondering  at  the  music, 
talking  of  the  prophecies  of  David  and  Isaiah,  they  hasten 
to  Bethlehem  and  find  the  lowly  stable.  Here,  with  a 
mixture  of  awe  and  tenderness,  the  shepherds  greet  the 
Holy  Child.  It  is  half  as  if  they  spoke  to  the  God  they 
feared,  half  as  if  they  played  with  some  little  helpless  baby 
who  was  their  very  own.  They  mingle  simple  things  of 
everyday  life  with  their  awe.  They  give  him  gifts,  but 
their  simple  minds  can  imagine  no  other  than  those  they 
might  give  to  their  own  children, 

'  Noble. 


THE  SHEPHERDS'  WATCH  203 

The  first  shepherd  greets  the  child  with  the  words : — 

"Hail,  comely  and  clean  !     Hail,  young  child  ! 
Hail,  maker  as  methinks  of  a  maiden  so  mild. 
Thou  hast  warred,  I  ween,  the  demon  so  wild." 

Then  he  gives  as  his  gift  a  bob  of  cherries. 
The  second  shepherd  speaks: — 

"Hail !  sovereign  saviour !  for  thee  have  we  sought. 
Hail,  noble  child  and  flower  that  all  thing  hast  wrought. 
Hail,  full  of  favour,  that  made  all  of  nought. 
Hail !  I  kneel  and  I  cower !     A  bird  have  I  brought 

To  my  bairn. 
Hail,  little  tiny  mop. 
Of  our  creed  thou  art  crop/ 
I  would  drink  to  thy  health. 

Little  Day  Star!" 

The  third  shepherd  speaks: — 

"Hail!  darling  dear  full  of  Godhead! 
I  pray  thee  be  near  when  that  I  have  need! 
Hail !  sweet  is  thy  cheer  I     My  heart  would  bleed 
To  see  thee  sit  here  in  so  poor  weed 

With  no  pennies. 
Hail!  put  forth  thy  dall.^ 
I  bring  thee  but  a  ball: 
Have  and  play  thee  with  all 

And  go  to  the  tennis." 

And  so  the  pageant  of  the  shepherds  comes  to  an  end, 
and  they  return  home  rejoicing. 

This  play  gives  us  a  good  idea  of  how  the  Miracles 
wound  themselves  about  the  lives  of  the  people.  It  gives  us 
a  good  idea  of  the  rudeness  of  the  times  when  such  jesting 
with  what  we  hold  as  sacred  seemed  not  amiss.  It  gives, 
too,  the  first  gleam  of  what  we  might  call  true  comedy  in 
English. 

>  Head.  "  Hand. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 

THE   STORY  OF  EVERYMAN 

A  LITTLE  later  than  the  Miracle  and  Mystery  plays  came 
another  sort  of  play  called  the  Moralities.  In  these,  instead 
of  representing  real  people,  the  actors  represented  thoughts, 
feelings  and  deeds,  good  and  bad.  Truth,  for  instance, 
would  be  shown  as  a  beautiful  lady;  Lying  as  an  ugly  old 
man,  and  so  on.  These  plays  were  meant  to  teach  just  as 
the  Miracles  were  meant  to  teach.  But  instead  of  teaching 
the  Bible  stories,  they  were  made  to  show  men  the  ugliness 
of  sin  and  the  beauty  of  goodness.  When  w^e  go  to  the 
theater  now  we  only  think  of  being  amused,  and  it  is 
strange  to  remember  that  all  acting  was  at  first  meant  to 
teach. 

The  very  first  of  our  Moralities  seems  to  have  been  a 
play  of  the  Lord's  Prayer.  It  was  acted  in  the  reign  of 
Edward  iii.  or  some  time  after  1327.  But  that  has  long 
been  lost,  and  we  know  nothing  of  it  but  its  name.  There 
are  several  other  Moralities,  however,  which  have  come 
down  to  us  of  a  later  date,  the  earliest  being  of  the  fifteenth 
century,  and  of  them  perhaps  the  most  interesting  is 
Everyman. 

But  we  cannot  claim  Everyman  altogether  as  English 
literature,  for  it  is  translated  from,  or  at  least  founded 
upon,  a  Dutch  play.  Yet  it  is  the  best  of  all  the  Moralities 
which  have  come  down  to  us,  and  may  have  been  translated 
into  English  about  1480.  In  its  own  time  it  must  have 
been  thought  well  of,  or  no  one  would  have  troubled  to 

204 


THE  STORY  OF  EVERYMAN  205 

translate  it.  But,  however  popular  it  was  long  ago,  for 
hundreds  of  years  it  had  lain  almost  forgotten,  unread 
except  by  a  very  few,  and  never  acted  at  all,  until  some 
one  drew  it  from  its  dark  hiding-place  and  once  more  put 
it  upon  the  stage.  Since  then,  during  the  last  few  years, 
it  has  been  acted  often.  And  as,  happily,  the  actors  have 
tried  to  perform  it  in  the  simple  fashion  in  which  it  must 
have  been  done  long  ago,  we  can  get  from  it  a  very  good 
idea  of  the  plays  which  pleased  our  forefathers.  On  the 
title-page  of  Everyman  we  read:  "Here  beginneth  a 
treatise  how  the  high  Father  of  heaven  sendeth  Death  to 
summon  every  creature  to  come  to  give  a  count  of  their 
lives  in  this  world,  and  is  in  the  manner  of  a  moral  play." 
So  in  the  play  we  learn  how  Death  comes  to  Everyman  and 
bids  him  follow  him. 

But  Everyman  is  gay  and  young.  He  loves  life,  he  has 
many  friends,  the  world  to  him  is  beautiful,  he  cannot 
leave  it.  So  he  prays  Death  to  let  him  stay,  offers  him  gold 
and  riches  if  he  will  but  put  off  the  matter  until  another 
day. 

But  Death  is  stern.  "Thee  availeth  not  to  cry,  weep 
and  pray,"  he  says,  "but  haste  thee  lightly  that  thou  wert 
gone  the  journey." 

Then  seeing  that  go  he  must,  Everyman  thinks  that  at 
least  he  will  have  company  on  the  journey.  So  he  turns  to 
his  friends.  But,  alas,  none  will  go  with  him.  One  by  one 
they  leave  him.     Then  Everyman  cries  in  despair: — 

"O  to  Avliom  shall  I  make  my  moan 
For  to  go  with  me  in  that  heavy  journey? 
First  Fellowship  said  he  would  with  me  gone; 
His  words  were  very  pleasant  and  gay. 
But  afterward  he  left  me  alone. 
Then  spake  I  to  my  kinsmen  all  in  despair. 
And  also  they  gave  me  words  fair; 
They  lacked  no  fair  speaking, 
But  all  forsake  me  in  the  ending." 


206  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

So  at  last  Everyman  turns  him  to  his  Good  Deeds — 
his  Good  Deeds,  whom  he  had  ahnost  forgotten  and  who 
lies  bound  and  in  prison  by  reason  of  his  sins.  And  Good 
Deeds  consents  to  go  with  him  on  the  dread  journey. 
With  him  come  others,  too,  among  them  Knowledge  and 
Strength.  But  at  the  last  these,  too,  turn  back.  Only 
Good  Deeds  is  true,  only  Good  Deeds  stands  by  him  to  the 
end  with  comforting  words.  And  so  the  play  ends;  the 
body  of  Everyman  is  laid  in  the  grave,  but  we  know  that 
his  soul  goes  home  to  God. 

This  play  is  meant  to  picture  the  life  of  every  man  or 
woman,  and  to  show  how  unliappy  we  may  be  in  the  end 
if  we  have  not  tried  to  be  good  in  this  world. 

"This  moral  men  may  have  in  mind^ 
The  hearers  take  it  of  worth  old  and  young, 
And  forsake  Pride,  for  he  deceiveth  you  in  the  end. 
And  remember  Beauty,  Five  Wits,  Strength,  and  Discretion, 
They  all  at  the  last  do  Everyman  forsake, 
Save  his  Good  Deeds;  these  doth  he  take. 
And  beware, — an  they  be  small. 
Before  God  he  hath  no  help  at  all. 
None  excuse  may  be  there  for  Everyman." 

BOOK  TO  READ 
Everyman:  A    Morality    (Everyman's   Library). 


CHAPTER  XXXV 

HOW  A  POET  COMFORTED  A  GIRL 

Perhaps  the  best  Morality  of  which  we  know  the  author's 
name  is  Magnificence,  by  John  Skelton.  But,  especially 
after  Everyman,  it  is  dull  reading  for  little  people,  and 
it  is  not  in  order  to  speak  of  this  play  that  I  write  about 
Skelton. 

John  Skelton  lived  in  the  stormy  times  of  Henry  viii., 
and  he  is  called  sometimes  our  first  poet-laureate.  But 
he  was  not  poet-laureate  as  we  now  understand  it,  he 
was  not  the  King's  poet.  The  title  only  meant  that 
he  had  taken  a  degree  in  grammar  and  Latin  verse, 
and  had  been  given  a  laurel  wreath  by  the  university 
which  gave  the  degree.  It  was  in  this  way  that  Skelton 
was  made  laureate,  first  by  Oxford,  then  by  Louvain  in 
Belgium,  and  thirdly  by  Cambridge,  so  that  in  his  day  he 
was  considered  a  learned  man  and  a  great  poet.  He  was  a 
friend  of  Caxton  and  helped  him  with  one  of  his  books. 
"I  pray,  maister  Skelton,  late  created  poet-laureate  in  the 
university  of  Oxenford,"  says  Caxton,  "to  oversee  and 
correct  this  said  book." 

John  Skelton,  like  so  many  other  literary  men  of  those 
days,  was  a  priest.  He  studied,  perhaps,  both  at  Oxford 
and  at  Cambridge,  and  became  tutor  to  Prince,  after- 
wards King,  Henry  viii.  We  do  not  know  if  he  had  an 
easy  time  with  his  royal  pupil  or  not,  but  in  one  of  his 
poems  he  tells  us  that  "The  honour  of  England  I  learned 
to  spell"  and  "acquainted  him  with  the  Muses  nine." 

207 


208  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  days  of  Henry  viii.  were  troublous  times  for  think- 
ing people.  The  King  was  a  tyrant,  and  the  people  of 
England  were  finding  it  harder  than  ever  to  bow  to  a  tyrant 
while  the  world  was  awakening  to  new  thought,  and  new 
desires  for  freedom,  both  in  religion  and  in  life. 

The  Reformation  had  begun.  The  teaching  of  Piers 
Ploughman,  the  preaching  of  Wj'-clif,  had  long  since  almost 
been  forgotten,  but  it  had  never  altogether  died  out.  The 
evils  in  the  Church  and  in  high  places  were  as  bad  as  ever, 
and  Skelton,  himself  a  priest,  preached  against  them.  He 
attacked  others,  even  though  he  himself  sinned  against  the 
laws  of  priesthood.  For  he  was  married,  and  in  those  days 
marriage  was  forbidden  to  clergymen,  and  his  life  was  not 
so  fair  as  it  might  have  been. 

At  first  Wolsey,  the  great  Cardinal  and  friend  of  Henry 
VIII.,  was  Skelton's  friend  too.  But  Skelton's  tongue  was 
mocking  and  bitter.  "He  was  a  sharp  satirist,  but  with 
more  railing  and  scoff  ery  than  became  a  poet-laureate,"  ^ 
said  one.  The  Cardinal  became  an  enemy,  and  the  railing 
tongue  was  turned  against  him.  In  a  poem  called  Colin 
Cloute  Skelton  pointed  out  the  evils  of  his  day  and  at  the 
same  time  pointed  the  finger  of  scorn  at  Wolsey.  Colin 
Cloute,  like  Piers  Ploughman,  was  meant  to  mean  the 
simple  good  Englishman. 

"Thus  I  Colin  Cloute, 
As  I  go  about, 
And  wandering  as  I  walk. 
There  the  peoiole  talk. 
Men  say,  for  silver  and  gold 
Mitres  are  bousrht  and  sold." 


And  a  Grain  :- 


"Laymen  say  indeed, 
How  they  (the  priests)  take  no  heed 
Their  silly  sheep  to  feed, 


^  Gporo'e  Piittenhain. 


HOW  A  POET  COMFORTED  A  GIRL      209 


But  pluck  away  and  pull 
The  fleeces  of  their  wool." 


But  he  adds : — 


"Of  no  good  bishop  speak  I, 
Nor  good  i^riest  I  decry^ 
Good  friar,  nor  good  chanon/ 
Good  nun,  nor  good  canon. 
Good  monk,  nor  good  clerk. 
Nor  yet  no  good  work: 
But  my  recounting  is 
Of  them  that  do  amiss." 

Yet,  although  Skelton  said  he  would  not  decry  any  good 
man  or  any  good  work,  his  spirit  was  a  mocking  one.  He 
was  fond  of  harsh  jests  and  rude  laughter,  and  no  person 
or  thing  was  too  high  or  too  holy  to  escape  his  sharp  wit. 
"He  was  doubtless  a  pleasant  conceited  fellow,  and  of  a 
very  sharp  wit,"  says  a  writer  about  sixty  years  later, 
"exceeding  bold,  and  would  nip  to  the  very  quick  when  he 
once  set  hold."  ^ 

And  being  bold  as  bitter,  and  having  set  hold  with 
hatred  upon  Wolsey,  he  in  another  poem  called  Why 
come  ye  not  to  Court?  and  in  still  another  called  Speahe, 
Parrot,  wrote  directly  against  the  Cardinal.  Yet  although 
Skelton  railed  against  the  Cardinal  and  against  the  evils  in 
the  Church,  he  was  no  Protestant.  He  believed  in  the 
Church  of  Rome,  and  would  have  been  sorry  to  think  that 
he  had  helped  the  "heretics." 

Wolsey  was  still  powerful,  and  he  made  up  his  mind 
to  silence  his  enemy,  so  Skelton  found  himself  more  than 
once  in  prison,  and  at  last  to  escape  the  Cardinal's  anger  he 
was  forced  to  take  sanctuary  in  Westminster.  There  he 
remained  until  he  died  a  few  months  before  his  great  enemy 
fell  from  power. 

As  many  of  Skelton's  poems  were  thus  about  quarrels 

*  Same  as  canon.  *  William  Wcbbe. 


210  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

over  religion  and  politics,  much  of  the   interest  in  them 
has  died.    Yet,  as  he  himself  says, 

"For  although  my  rhyme  is  ragged. 
Tattered  and  jagged. 
Rudely  rain-beaten. 
Rusty  and  moth  eaten. 
If  ye  take  well  therewith. 
It  hath  in  it  some  pith." 

And  it  is  well  to  remember  the  name  of  Colin  Cloute 
at  least,  because  a  later  and  much  greater  poet  borrowed 
that  name  for  one  of  his  own  poems,  as  you  shall 
hear. 

But  the  poem  which  keeps  most  interest  for  us  is  one 
which  perhaps  at  the  time  it  was  written  was  thought 
least  important.  It  is  called  The  Booh  of  Philip  Simrrow. 
And  this  poem  shows  us  that  Skelton  was  not  always  bitter 
and  biting.  For  it  is  neither  bitter  nor  coarse,  but  is  a 
dainty  and  tender  lament  written  for  a  schoolgirl  whose 
sparrow  had  been  killed  by  a  cat.  It  is  written  in  the  same 
short  lines  as  Colin  Cloute  and  others  of  Skelton's  poems 
— "breathless  rhymes,"  ^  they  have  been  called.  These 
short  lines  remind  us  somewhat  of  the  old  Anglo-Saxon 
short  half-lines,  except  that  they  rime.  They  are  called 
after  their  author  "Skeltonical." 

What  chieflj^  makes  The  Booh  of  Philip  Sparrow 
interesting  is  that  it  is  the  original  of  our  nursery  rime 
Who  Killed  Coch  Robin?  It  is  written  in  the  form  of 
a  dirge,  and  many  people  were  shocked  at  that,  for  they 
said  that  it  was  but  another  form  of  mockery  that  this 
jesting  priest  had  chosen  with  which  to  divert  himself. 
But  I  think  that  little  Jane  Scoupe  at  school  in  the  nunnery 
at  Carowe  would  dry  her  eyes  and  smile  when  she  read  it. 
She  must  have  been  pleased  that  the  famous  poet,  who  had 
been  the  King's  tutor  and  friend  and  who  had  been  both 

»  Bishop   Hall. 


HOW  A  POET  COMFORTED  A  GIRL      211 

the  friend  and  enemy  of  the  great  Cardinal,  should  trouble 
to  write  such  a  long  poem  all  about  her  sparrow. 
Here  are  a  few  quotations  from  it: — 

"Pla  ce  bo/ 
Who  is  there  who? 
Di  le  sci. 
Dame  Margery; 
Fa  re  my  my, 
Wherefore  and  why  why? 
For  the  soul  of  Philip  Sparrow 
That  was  late  slain  at  Carowe, 
Among  the  nuns  black. 
For  that  sweet  soul's  sake. 
And  for  all  sparrows'  souls. 
Set  in  our  bead  rolls, 
Pater  Noster  qui, 
With  an  Ave  Mari, 
And  with  the  corner  of  a  creed. 
The  more  shall  be  your  need. 

I  wept  and  I  wailed. 
The  tears  down  hailed. 
But  nothing  it  availed 
To  call  Philip  again. 
That  Gib  our  cat  hath  slain. 

Gib,   I  say,  our  cat 
Worried  her  on  that 
Which  I  loved  best. 
It  cannot  be  expressed 
My  sorrowful  heaviness 
And  all  without  redress. 

It  had  a  velvet  cap. 

And  would  sit  upon  my  lap. 

And  seek  after  small  worms. 

And  sometimes  white  bread-crumbs. 


^  Placebo  is  the  first  word  of  the  first  chant  in  the  service  for  the  dead. 
Skelton  has  here  made  it  into  three  words.  The  chant  is  called  the  Placebo  from 
the  first  word;  see  also  page  214. 


212  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Sometimes  he  would  gasp 

When  he  saw  a  wasp, 

A  fly  or  a  gnat 

He  would  fly  at  that; 

And  prettily  he  would  pant 

When  he  saw  an  ant; 

Lord,  how  he  Avould  fly 

After  the  butterfly. 

And  when  I  said  Phip,  Phip 

Then  he  would  leap  and  skip, 

And  take  me  by  the  lip. 

Alas,  it  will  me  slo,^ 

That  Philip  is  gone  me  fro. 

For  it  would  come  and  go. 
And  fly  so  to  and  fro; 
And  on  me  it  would  leap 
When  I  was  asleep. 
And  his  feathers  shake, 
Wherewith  he  would  make 
Me  often  for  to  wake. 

That  vengeance  I  ask  and  cry, 

By  way  of  exclamation. 

On  all  the  whole  nation 

Of  cats  wild  and  tame. 

God  send  them  sorrow  and  shame ! 

That  cat  especially 

That  slew  so  cruelly 

ISIy  little  pretty  sparrow 

That  I  brought  up  at  Carowe. 

O  cat  of  churlish  kind, 
The  fiend  was  in  thy  mind, 
When  thou  my  bird  untwined.^ 
I  would  thou  hadst  been  blind. 
The  leopards  savage. 
The  lions  in  their  rage. 
Might  catch  thee  in  their  paws 
And  gnaw  thee  in  their  jaws. 


Slay.  *  Tore  to  pieces. 


HOW  A  POET  COMFORTED  A  GIRL      213 

These  villainous  false  cats, 
Were  made  for  mice  and  rats. 
And  not  for  birdies  small. 

Alas,  mine  heart  it  slayeth 
My  Philip's  doleful  death. 
When  I  remember  it, 
How  prettily  it  would  sit, 
Many  times  and  oft. 
Upon  my  finger  aloft. 

To  weep  with  me,  look  that  ye  come. 

All  manner  of  birds  of  your  kind; 

So  none  be  left  behind, 

To  mourning  look  that  ye  fall 

With  dolorous  songs  funeral. 

Some  to  sing,  and  some  to  say, 

Some  to  weep,  and  some  to  pray. 

Every  bird  in  his  lay. 

The  goldfinch  and  the  wagtail; 

The  gangling  jay  to  rail. 

The  flecked  pie  to  chatter 

Of  the  dolorous  matter; 

The  robin  redbreast, 

He  shall  be  the  priest. 

The  requiem  mass  to  sing. 

Softly  warbling. 

With  help  of  the  red  sparrow. 

And  the  chattering  swallow. 

This  hearse  for  to  hallow; 

The  lark  with  his  lung  too. 

The  chaffinch  and  the  martinet  also; 

The  lusty  chanting  nightingale. 
The  popinjay  to  tell  her  tale. 
That  peepeth  oft  in  the  glass. 
Shall  read  the  Gospel  at  mass; 
The  mavis  with  her  whistle 
Shall  read  there  the  Epistle, 
But  with  a  large  and  a  long 
To  keep  just  plain  song. 


214  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  peacock  so  proud, 
Because  his  voice  is  loud, 
And  hath  a  glorious  tail 
He  shall  sing  the  grayle ;  ^ 
The  owl  that  is  so  foul 
Must  help  us  to  howl. 

At  the  Placebo 
We  may  not  forego 
The  chanting  of  the  daw 
The  stork  also. 
That  maketh  her  nest 
In  chimnies  to  rest. 


The  ostrich  that  will  eat 
A  horseshoe  so  great. 
In  the  stead  of  meat. 
Such  fervent  heat 
His  stomach  doth  gnaw. 
He  cannot  well  fly 
Nor  sing  tuneably. 

The  best  that  we  can 
To  make  him  our  bellman. 
And  let  him  ring  the  bells. 
He  can  do  nothing  else. 

Chanticlere  our  cock 
Must  tell  what  is  of  the  clock 
By  the  astrology 
That  he  hath  naturally 
Conceived  and  caught. 
And  was  never  taught. 

To  Jupiter  I  call 
Of  heaven  imperial 
That  Philip  may  fly 
Above  the  starry  sky 
To  greet  the  pretty  wren 
That  is  our  Lady's  hen. 
Amen,  amen,  amen. 

Gradual = the  part  of  the  mass  between  Epistle  and  Gospel. 


CHAPTER  XXXVI 

THE  RENAISSANCE 

Renaissance  means  rebirth,  and  to  make  you  understand 
something  of  what  the  word  means  in  our  literature  I  must 
take  you  a  long  way.  You  have  been  told  that  the 
fifteenth  century  was  a  dull  time  in  English  literature, 
but  that  it  was  also  a  time  of  new  action  and  new  life, 
for  the  discovery  of  new  worlds  and  the  discoveiy  of  print- 
ing had  opened  men's  eyes  and  minds  to  new  wonders. 
There  was  a  third  event  which  added  to  this  new  life  by 
bringing  new  thought  and  new  learning  to  England.  That 
was  the  taking  of  Constantinople  by  the  Turks. 

It  seems  difficult  to  understand  how  the  taking  of 
Constantinople  could  have  any  effect  on  our  literature. 
I  will  try  to  explain,  but  in  order  to  do  so  clearly  I  must  go 
back  to  the  time  of  the  Romans. 

All  of  you  have  read  English  history,  and  there  you  read 
of  the  Romans.  You  know  what  a  clever  and  conquering 
people  they  were,  and  how  they  subdued  all  the  wild  tribes 
who  lived  in  the  countries  around  them.  Besides  conquer- 
ing all  the  barbarians  around  them,  the  Romans  conquered 
another  people  who  were  not  barbarians,  but  who  were 
in  some  ways  more  civilized  than  themselves.  These 
were  the  Greeks.  They  had  a  great  literature,  they  were 
more  learned  and  quite  as  skilled  in  the  arts  of  peace  as  the 
Romans.  Yet  in  146  B.C.,  long  before  the  Romans  came 
to  our  little  island,  Greece  became  a  Roman  province. 

Nearly   five   hundred   years   later   there    sat   upon   the 

215 


216  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

throne  an  Emperor  named  Constantine.  And  he,  although 
Rome  was  still  pagan,  became  a  Christian.  He  was, 
besides,  a  great  and  powerful  ruler.  His  court  was 
brilliant,  glittering  with  all  the  golden  splendor  of  those 
far-off  times.  But  although  Rome  v/as  still  pagan, 
Greece,  a  Roman  province,  had  become  Christian.  And 
in  this  Christian  province  Constantine  made  up  his  mind 
to  build  a  New  Rome. 

In  those  days  the  boundaries  of  Greece  stretched  far 
further  than  they  do  now,  and  it  was  upon  the  shores  of 
the  Bosphorus  that  Constantine  built  his  new  capital. 
There  was  already  an  ancient  town  there  named  Bj'zantium, 
but  he  transformed  it  into  a  new  and  splendid  city.  The 
Emperor  willed  it  to  be  called  New  Rome,  but  instead  the 
people  called  it  the  city  of  Constantine,  and  we  know  it 
now  as  Constantinople. 

When  Constantinople  was  founded  it  was  a  Roman 
city.  All  the  rulers  were  Roman,  all  the  high  posts  were 
filled  by  Romans,  and  Latin  was  the  speech  of  the  people. 
But  in  Constantinople  it  happened  as  it  had  happened  in 
England  after  the  Conquest.  In  England,  for  a  time  after 
the  Conquest,  the  rulers  were  French  and  the  language 
was  French,  but  gradually  all  that  passed  away,  and  the 
language  and  the  rulers  became  English  once  more.  So 
it  was  in  Constantinople.  Bj^  degrees  it  became  a  Greek 
city,  the  rulers  became  Greek,  and  Greek  was  the  language 
spoken. 

In  building  a  second  capital  Constantine  had  weakened 
his  Empire.  Soon  it  was  split  in  two,  and  there  arose  a 
western  and  an  eastern  Empire.  As  time  went  on  the 
Western  Empire  with  Rome  at  its  head  declined  and  fell, 
while  the  Eastern  Empire  with  Constantinople  as  its 
capital  grew  great.  But  it  grew  into  a  Greek  Empire. 
Even  very  clever  people  cannot  tell  the  exact  date  at  which 
the  Roman  Empire   came   to   an  end   and   the   Greek  or 


THE  RENAISSANCE  217 

Byzantine  Empire,  as  it  is  called,  began.  So  we  need  not 
trouble  about  that.  All  that  is  needful  for  us  to  under- 
stand now  is  that  Constantinople  was  a  Christian  city,  a 
Greek  city,  and  a  treasure-house  of  Greek  learning  and 
literature. 

Thus  Constantinople  was  the  Christian  outpost  of 
Europe.  For  hundreds  of  years  the  Byzantine  Empire 
stood  as  a  barrier  against  the  Saracen  hosts  of  Asia.  It 
might  have  stood  still  longer,  but  sad  to  say,  this  barrier 
was  first  broken  down  by  the  Christians  themselves.  For 
in  1204  the  armies  of  the  fourth  Crusade,  which  had  gathered 
to  fight  the  heathen,  turned  their  swords,  to  their  shame  be 
it  said,  against  the  Christian  people  of  the  Greek  Empire. 
Constantinople  was  taken,  plundered,  and  destroyed  by 
these  "pious  brigands,"  ^  and  the  last  of  the  Byzantine 
Emperors  was  first  blinded  and  then  flung  from  a  high 
tower,  so  that  his  body  fell  shattered  to  pieces  on  the  paving- 
stones  of  his  own  capital. 

Baldwin,  Count  of  Flanders,  one  of  the  great  leaders 
of  the  Crusade,  was  then  crowned  by  his  followers  and 
acknowledged  Emperor  of  the  East.  But  the  once  great 
Empire  was  now  broken  up,  and  out  of  it  three  lesser 
Empires,  as  well  as  many  smaller  states,  were  formed. 

Baldwin  did  not  long  rule  as  Emperor  of  the  East,  and 
the  Greeks  after  a  time  succeeded  in  regaining  Constanti- 
nople from  the  western  Christians.  But  although  for 
nearly  two  hundred  years  longer  they  kept  it,  the  Empire 
was  dying  and  lifeless.  And  by  degrees,  as  the  power  of 
Greece  grew  less,  the  power  of  Turkey  grew  greater.  At 
length  in  1453  the  Sultan  Mohammed  ii.  attacked  Con- 
stantinople. Then  the  Cross,  which  for  a  thousand  years 
and  more  had  stood  upon  the  ramparts  of  Christendom, 
went  down  before  the  Crescent. 

Constantine  xi.,  the  last  of  the  Greek  Emperors,  knelt 

*  George  Finlay,  History  of  Greece. 


218  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

in  the  great  church  of  St.  Sophia  to  receive  for  the  last 
time  the  Holy  Sacrament.  Then  mounting  his  horse  he 
rode  forth  to  battle.  Fighting  for  his  kingdom  and  his 
faith  he  fell,  and  over  his  dead  body  the  young  Sultan  and 
his  soldiers  rode  into  the  ruined  city.  Then  in  the  church, 
where  but  a  few  hours  before  the  fallen  Emperor  had  knelt 
and  prayed  to  Christ,  the  Sultan  bowed  himself  in  thanks 
and  praise  to  Allah  and  Mohammed. 

And  now  we  come  to  the  point  where  the  taking  of 
Constantinople  and  the  fall  of  the  Greek  Empire  touches 
our  literature. 

In  Constantinople  the  ancient  learning  and  literature 
of  the  Greeks  had  lived  on  year  after  year.  The  city  was 
full  of  scholars  who  knew,  and  loved,  and  studied  the  Greek 
authors.  But  now,  before  the  terror  of  the  Turk,  driven 
forth  by  the  fear  of  slavery  and  disgrace,  these  Greek 
scholars  fled.  They  fled  to  Italy.  And  although  in  their 
flight  they  had  to  leave  goods  and  wealth  behind,  they 
came  laden  with  precious  manuscripts  from  the  libraries 
of  Constantinople. 

These  fugitive  Greeks  brought  to  the  Italians  a  learning 
which  was  to  them  new  and  strange.  Soon  all  over  Europe 
the  news  of  the  New  Learning  spread.  Then  across  the 
Alps  scholars  thronged  from  every  country  in  Europe  to 
listen  and  to  learn. 

I  do  not  think  I  can  quite  make  you  understand  what 
this  New  Learning  was.  It  was  indeed  but  the  old  learn- 
ing of  Greece.  Yet  there  was  in  it  something  that  can  never 
grow  old,  for  it  was  human.  It  made  men  turn  away 
from  idle  dreaming  and  begin  to  learn  that  the  world  we 
live  in  is  real.  They  began  to  realize  that  there  was  some- 
thing more  than  a  past  and  a  future.  There  was  the 
present.  So,  instead  of  giving  all  their  time  to  vague 
wonderings  of  what  might  be,  of  what  never  had  been,  and 
what  never  could  be,  they  began  to  take  an  interest  in  life 


THE  RENAISSANCE  219 

as  it  was  and  in  man  as  he  was.  They  began  to  see  that 
human  life  with  all  its  joys  and  sorrows  was,  after  all,  the 
most  interesting  thing  to  man. 

It  was  a  New  Birth,  and  men  called  it  so.  For  that  is 
the  meaning  of  Renaissance.  INIany  things  besides  the  fall 
of  Constantinople  helped  towards  this  New  Birth.  The 
discovery  of  new  worlds  by  daring  sailors  like  Columbus 
and  Cabot,  and  the  discovery  of  printing  were  among  them. 
But  the  touchstone  of  the  New  Learning  was  the  know- 
ledge of  Greek,  which  had  been  to  the  greater  part  of 
Europe  a  lost  tongue.  On  this  side  of  the  Alps  there  was 
not  a  school  or  college  in  which  it  could  be  learned.  So  to 
Italy,  where  the  Greek  scholars  had  found  a  refuge,  those 
who  wished  to  learn  flocked. 

Among  them  were  some  Oxford  scholars.  Chief  of 
these  were  three,  whose  names  you  will  learn  to  know  well 
when  you  come  to  read  more  about  this  time.  They  were 
William  Grocyn,  "the  most  upright  and  best  of  all  Brit- 
ons," ^  Thomas  Linacre,  and  John  Colet.  These  men,  re- 
turning from  Italy  full  of  the  New  Learning,  began  to  teach 
Greek  at  Oxford.  And  it  is  strange  now  to  think  that  there 
were  many  then  who  were  bitterly  against  such  teaching. 
The  students  even  formed  themselves  into  two  parties,  for 
and  against.  They  were  called  Greeks  and  Trojans,  and 
between  these  two  parties  many  a  fierce  fight  took  place, 
for  the  quarrel  did  not  end  in  words,  but  often  in  blows. 

The  New  Learning,  however,  conquered.  And  so 
keenly  did  men  feel  the  human  interests  of  such  things  as 
were  now  taught,  that  we  have  come  to  call  grammar, 
rhetoric,  poetry,  Greek  and  Latin  the  Humanities,  and 
the  professor  who  teaches  these  things  the  professor  of 
Humanity. 

*  Erasmus. 


CHAPTER  XXXVII 

THE  LAND  OF  NOWHERE 

While  the  New  Learning  was  stirring  England,  and  Greek 
was  being  for  the  first  time  taught  in  Oxford,  a  young 
student  of  fourteen  came  to  the  University  there.  This 
student  was  named  Thomas  JNIore.  He  was  the  son  of  a 
lawyer  who  became  a  judge,  and  as  a  little  boy  he  had  been 
a  page  in  the  household  of  Morton,  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 

The  Archbishop  was  quick  to  see  that  the  boy  was 
clever.  "This  child  here  waiting  at  the  table,  whoever 
will  live  to  see  it,  will  prove  a  marvellous  man,"  ^  he  would 
say.  And  so  he  persuaded  More's  father  to  send  the  boy 
to  Oxford  to  study  law. 

Thomas  remained  only  two  years  at  Oxford,  for  old 
Sir  John,  fearing  he  was  learning  too  much  Greek  and 
literature  and  not  enough  law,  called  his  son  home  and 
sent  him  to  study  law  in  London.  It  must  have  been  a 
disappointment  to  the  boy  to  be  taken  from  the  clever 
friends  he  had  made  in  Oxford,  and  from  the  books  and 
studies  that  he  loved,  to  be  set  instead  to  read  dry  law- 
books. But  Thomas  More  was  most  sunny-tempered. 
Nothing  made  him  sulky  or  cross.  So  now  he  settled 
down  quietly  to  his  new  life,  and  in  a  very  short  time 
became  a  famous  and  learned  lawj^er. 

It  was  after  More  left  Oxford  that  he  met  the  man 
who    became    his    dearest    friend.      This    was    Desiderius 

*  William  Roper,  The  Mirroxtr  of  Virtue. 
220 


THE  LAND  OF  NOWHERE  221 

Erasmus,  a  learned  Dutchman.  He  was  eleven  years 
older  than  More  and  he  could  speak  no  English,  but  that 
did  not  prevent  them  becoming  friends,  as  they  both 
could  speak  Latin  easily  and  well.  They  had  much  in 
common.  Erasmus  was  of  the  same  lively,  merry  wit  as 
JMore,  they  both  loved  literature  and  the  Greek  learning, 
and  so  the  two  became  fast  friends.  And  it  helps  us 
to  understand  the  power  which  Latin  still  held  over  our 
literature,  and  indeed  over  all  the  literature  of  Europe, 
when  we  remember  that  these  two  friends  spoke  to  each 
other  and  wrote  and  jested  in  Latin  as  easily  as  they 
might  have  done  in  English.  Erasmus  was  one  of  the  most 
famous  men  of  his  time.  He  was  one  who  did  much  in 
his  day  to  free  men's  minds,  one  who  helped  men  to  think 
for  themselves.  So  although  he  had  directly  perhaps 
little  to  do  with  English  literature,  it  is  well  to  remember 
him  as  the  friend  of  IMore.  "My  affection  for  the  man  is 
so  great,"  wrote  Erasmus  once,  "that  if  he  bade  me  dance 
a  hornpipe,  I  should  do  at  once  what  he  bid  me." 

Although  More  was  so  merry  and  witty,  religion  got  a 
strong  hold  upon  him,  and  at  one  time  he  thought  of 
becoming  a  monk.  But  his  friends  persuaded  him  to 
give  up  that  idea,  and  after  a  time  he  decided  to  marry. 
He  chose  his  wife  in  a  somewhat  quaint  manner.  Among 
his  friends  there  was  a  gentleman  who  had  three  daughters. 
]More  liked  the  second  one  best,  "for  that  he  thought  her 
the  fairest  and  best  favoured."  ^  But  he  married  the  eldest 
because  it  seemed  to  him  "that  it  would  be  both  great 
grief  and  some  shame  also  to  the  oldest  to  see  her  younger 
sister  preferred  before  her  in  marriage.  He  then,  of  a 
certain  pity,  framed  his  fancy  toward  her,  and  soon  after 
married  her."  ^ 

Although  he  chose  his  wife  so  quaintly  JMore's  home 
was  a  very  happy  one.     He  loved  nothing  better  than  to 

'  W.  Roper.  '  The  same. 


222  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

live  a  simple  family  life  with  his  wife  and  children  round 
him.  After  six  years  his  wife  died,  but  he  quickly 
married  again.  And  although  his  second  wife  was  "a 
simple  ignorant  woman  and  somewhat  worldly  too," 
with  a  sharp  tongue  and  short  temper,  she  was  kind  to  her 
step -children  and  the  home  was  still  a  happy  one. 

More  was  a  great  public  man,  but  he  was  first  a  father 
and  head  of  his  own  house.  He  says:  "While  I  spend 
almost  all  the  day  abroad  amongst  others,  and  the  residue 
at  home  among  mine  own,  I  leave  to  myself,  I  mean  to  my 
book,  no  time.  For  when  I  come  home,  I  must  commen 
with  my  wife,  chatter  with  my  children,  and  talk  with 
my  servants.  All  the  which  things  I  reckon  and  account 
among  business,  forasmuch  as  they  must  of  necessity  be 
done,  and  done  must  they  needs  be  unless  a  man  will  be 
stranger  in  his  own  house.  And  in  any  wise  a  man  must 
so  fashion  and  order  his  conditions  and  so  appoint  and 
dispose  himself,  that  he  be  merry,  jocund  and  pleasant 
among  them,  whom  either  Nature  hath  provided  or  chance 
hath  made,  or  he  himself  hath  chosen  to  be  the  fellows 
and  companions  of  his  life,  so  that  with  too  much  gentle 
behaviour  and  familiarity  he  do  not  mar  them,  and  by 
too  much  sufferance  of  his  servants  make  them  his 
masters." 

At  a  time,  too,  when  education  was  thought  little 
necessary  for  girls,  JNIore  taught  his  daughters  as  carefully 
as  his  sons.  His  eldest  daughter  Margaret  (Mog,  as  he 
loved  to  call  her)  was  so  clever  that  learned  men  praised 
and  rewarded  her.  When  his  children  married  they  did 
not  leave  home,  but  came  with  their  husbands  and  wives 
to  live  at  Chelsea  in  the  beautiful  home  More  had  built 
there.  So  the  family  was  never  divided,  and  More 
gathered  a  "school"  of  children  and  grandchildren  round 
him. 

More  soon  became  a  great  man.    Henry  vii.,  indeed,  did 


THE  LAND  OF  NOWHERE  223 

not  love  him,  so  More  did  not  rise  to  power  while  he  lived. 
But  Henry  vii.  died  and  his  son  Henry  viii.  ruled.  The 
great  Chancellor,  Cardinal  Wolsey,  became  JNIore's  friend, 
and  presently  he  was  sent  on  business  for  the  King  to 
Bruges. 

It  was  while  More  was  about  the  King's  business  in 
Belgium  that  he  wrote  the  greater  part  of  the  book  by 
which  he  is  best  remembered.  This  book  is  called  Utopia. 
The  name  means  "nowhere,"  from  two  Greek  words,  ''ou" 
no,  and  "topos,"  a  place. 

The  Utopia,  like  so  many  other  books  of  which  we  have 
read,  was  the  outcome  of  the  times  in  which  the  writer  lived. 
When  ^lore  looked  round  upon  the  England  that  he  knew 
he  saw  many  things  that  were  wrong.  He  was  a  man 
loyal  to  his  King,  yet  he  could  not  pretend  to  think  that 
the  King  ruled  only  for  the  good  of  his  people  and  not  for 
his  own  pleasure.  There  was  evil,  misery,  and  suffering 
in  all  the  land.  More  longed  to  make  people  see  that 
things  were  wrong;  he  longed  to  set  the  wrong  right.  So 
to  teach  men  how  to  do  this  he  invented  a  land  of  Nowhere 
in  which  there  was  no  evil  or  injustice,  in  which  every  one 
was  happy  and  good.  He  wrote  so  well  about  that  make- 
believe  land  that  from  then  till  now  every  one  who  reads 
Utopia  sees  the  beauty  of  More's  idea.  But  every  one,  too, 
thinks  that  this  land  where  everything  is  right  is  an 
impossible  land.  Thus  jMore  gave  a  new  word  to  our  lan- 
guage, and  when  we  think  some  idea  beautiful  but  im- 
possible we  call  it  "Utopian." 

As  it  was  the  times  that  made  More  write  his  book, 
so  it  was  the  times  that  gave  him  the  form  of  it. 

In  those  days,  as  you  know,  men's  minds  were  stirred 
by  the  discovery  of  new  lands  and  chiefly  by  the  discovery 
of  America.  And  although  it  was  Columbus  who  first 
discovered  America,  he  did  not  give  his  name  to  the  new 
country.    It  was,  instead,  named  after  the  Italian  explorer 


224  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Amerigo  Vespucci.  Amerigo  wrote  a  book  about  his 
voyages,  and  it  was  from  this  book  that  More  got  some  of 
his  ideas  for  the  Utopia. 

More  makes  beheve  that  one  day  in  Antwerp  he  saw 
a  man  "well  stricken  in  age,  with  a  black  sun-burned  face, 
a  long  beard,  and  a  cloak  cast  homely  about  his  shoulders, 
whom  by  his  favour  and  apiDarel  forthwith  I  judged  fo  be 
a  mariner." 

This  man  w^as  called  Raphael  Hj^thlodaye  and  had  been 
with  Amerigo  Vespucci  in  the  three  last  of  his  voyages, 
"saving  that  in  the  last  voyage  he  came  not  home  again 
with  him."  For  on  that  voyage  Hythlodaye  asked  to  be 
left  behind.  And  after  Amerigo  had  gone  home  he,  with 
five  friends,  set  forth  upon  a  further  voyage  of  discovery. 
In  their  travels  they  saw  many  marvelous  and  fearful 
things,  and  at  length  came  to  the  wonderful  land  of  No- 
where. "But  what  he  told  us  that  he  saw,  in  every  country 
where  he  came,  it  were  very  long  to  declare." 

More  asked  many  questions  of  this  great  traveler. 
"But  as  for  monsters,  because  they  be  no  news,  of  them  we 
were  nothing  inquisitive.  .  .  .  But  to  find  citizens  ruled 
by  good  and  wholesome  laws,  that  is  an  exceeding  rare  and 
hard  thing!" 

The  w^hole  story  of  the  Utopia  is  told  in  the  form  of 
talks  between  Hythlodaye,  More,  and  his  friend  Peter 
Giles.  And  ^lore  mixes  what  is  real  and  what  is  imaginary 
so  quaintly  that  it  is  not  wonderful  that  many  of  the 
people  of  his  own  day  thought  that  Utopia  w  as  a  real  place. 
Peter  Giles,  for  instance,  was  a  real  man  and  a  friend  of 
JNIore,  while  Hythlodaye  was  imaginary,  his  name  being 
made  of  Greek  w^ords  meaning  Cunning  Babbler.  Nearly 
all  the  names  of  the  towns,  rivers,  and  people  of  whom 
Hythlodaye  tells  w^re  also  made  from  Greek  words  and 
have    some    meaning.     For    instance,    Achoriens     means 


THE  LAND  OF  NOWHERE  225 

people-who-have-no-place-on-earth,  Amaurote  a-phantom- 
city,  and  so  on. 

More  takes  a  great  deal  of  trouble  to  keep  up  the 
mystery  of  this  strange  land.  It  was  not  wonderful  that 
he  should,  for  under  the  pretense  of  a  story  he  said  hard 
things  about  the  laws  and  ill-government  of  England, 
things  which  it  was  treason  to  whisper.  In  those  days 
treason  was  a  terrible  word  covering  a  great  deal,  and 
death  and  torture  were  like  to  be  the  fate  of  any  one  who 
spoke  his  mind  too  freely. 

But  More  knew  that  it  would  be  a  hard  matter  to  make 
things  better  in  England.  As  he  makes  Hythlodaye  say, 
it  is  no  use  trying  to  improve  things  in  a  blundering 
fashion.  It  is  of  no  use  trj^ing  by  fear  to  drive  into 
people's  heads  things  they  have  no  mind  to  learn.  Neither 
must  you  "forsake  the  ship  in  a  tempest,  because  you 
cannot  rule  and  keep  down  the  winds."  But  "you  must 
with  a  crafty  wile  and  subtile  train,  study  and  endeavour 
yourself,  as  much  as  in  you  lieth,  to  handle  the  matter 
wittily  and  handsomely  for  the  purpose.  And  that  which 
you  cannot  turn  to  good,  so  to  order  it  that  it  be  not  very 
bad.  For  it  is  not  possible  for  all  things  to  be  well,  unless 
all  men  were  good:  which  I  think  will  not  be  yet  in  these 
good  many  years." 

The  Utopia  is  divided  into  two  books.  The  first  and 
shorter  gives  us  what  we  might  call  the  machinery  of 
the  tale.  It  tells  of  the  meeting  with  Hythlodaye  and 
JMore's  first  talk  with  him.  It  is  not  until  the  beginning 
of  the  second  book  that  we  really  hear  about  Utopia. 
And  I  think  if  you  read  the  book  soon,  I  would  advise 
you  to  begin  with  the  second  part,  which  ISIore  wrote  first. 
In  the  second  book  we  have  most  of  the  story,  but  the  first 
book  helps  us  to  understand  More's  own  times  and  explains 
what  he  was  trying  to  do  in  writing  his  tale. 

At  the  beginning  of  this  book  I  told  you  tliat  we  should 


226  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

have  to  talk  of  many  books  which  for  the  present,  at  least, 
you  could  not  hope  to  like,  but  which  you  must  be  content 
to  be  told  are  good  and  worth  reading.  I  may  be  wrong, 
but  I  think  Utopia  is  one  of  these.  Yet  as  Cresacre  More, 
More's  great-grandson,  speaking  of  his  great-grandfather's 
writing,  says,  he  "seasoned  always  the  troublesomeness  of 
the  matter  with  some  merry  jests  or  pleasant  tales,  as  it 
were  sugar,  whereby  we  drink  up  the  more  willingly  these 
wholesome  drugs  .  .  .  which  kind  of  writing  he  hath  used 
in  all  his  works,  so  that  none  can  ever  be  weary  to 
read  them,  though  they  be  never  so  long." 

And  even  if  you  like  the  book  now,  you  will  both  like 
and  understand  it  much  better  when  you  know  a  little 
about  politics.  You  will  then  see,  too,  how  difficult  it  is 
to  know  when  More  is  in  earnest  and  when  he  is  merely 
poking  fun,  for  ]More  loved  to  jest.  Yet  as  his  grandson, 
who  wrote  a  life  of  him,  tells  us,  "Whatsoever  jest  he 
brought  forth,  he  never  laughed  at  any  himself,  but  spoke 
always  so  sadly,  that  few  could  see  by  his  look  whether 
he  spoke  in  earnest  or  in  jest." 

It  would  take  too  long  to  tell  all  about  the  wonderful 
island  of  Utopia  and  its  people,  but  I  must  tell  you  a  little 
of  it  and  how  they  regarded  money.  All  men  in  this  land 
were  equal.  No  man  was  idle,  neither  was  any  man  over- 
burdened with  labor,  for  every  one  had  to  work  six  hours 
a  daj^  No  man  was  rich,  no  man  was  poor,  for  "though 
no  man  have  anything,  yet  every  man  is  rich,"  for  the  State 
gave  him  everything  that  he  needed.  So  money  was 
hardly  of  any  use,  and  gold  and  silver  and  precious  jewels 
were  despised. 

"In  the  meantime  gold  and  silver,  whereof  money  is 
made,  they  do  so  use,  as  none  of  them  doth  more  esteem 
it,  than  the  very  nature  of  the  thing  deserveth.  And 
then  who  doth  not  plainly  see  how  far  it  is  under  iron? 
as  without  the  which  men  can  no  better  live  than  without 


THE  LAND  OF  NOWHERE  227 

fire  and  water ;  whereas  to  gold  and  silver  nature  hath  given 
no  use  that  we  may  not  well  lack,  if  that  the  folly  of  men 
had  not  set  it  in  higher  estimation  for  the  rareness  sake. 
But,  of  the  contrary  part.  Nature,  as  a  most  tender  and 
loving  mother,  hath  placed  the  best  and  most  necessary 
things  open  abroad;  as  the  air,  the  water,  and  the  earth 
itself;  and  hath  removed  and  hid  farthest  from  us  vain 
and  unprofitable  things." 

Yet  as  other  countries  still  prized  money,  gold  and 
silver  was  sometimes  needed  by  the  Utopians.  But, 
thought  the  wise  King  and  his  counselors,  if  we  lock  it  up 
in  towers  and  take  great  care  of  it,  the  people  may  begin  to 
think  that  gold  is  of  value  for  itself,  they  will  begin  to 
think  that  we  are  keeping  something  precious  from  them. 
So  to  set  this  right  they  fell  upon  a  plan.  It  was  this. 
"For  whereas  they  eat  and  drink  in  earthen  and  glass 
vessels,  which  indeed  be  curiously  and  properly  made, 
and  yet  be  of  very  small  value;  of  gold  and  silver  they 
make  other  vessels  that  serve  for  most  vile  uses,  not  only 
in  their  common  halls,  but  in  every  man's  private  house. 
Furthermore  of  the  same  metals  they  make  great  chains 
with  fetters  and  gyves,  wherein  they  tie  their  bondmen. 
Finally,  whosoever  for  any  offense  be  infamed,  by  their 
ears  hang  rings  of  gold,  upon  their  fingers  they  wear  rings 
of  gold,  and  about  their  necks  chains  of  gold;  and  in 
conclusion  their  heads  be  tied  about  with  gold. 

"Thus,  by  all  means  that  may  be,  they  procure  to  have 
gold  and  silver  among  them  in  reproach  and  infamy. 
And  therefore  these  metals,  which  other  nations  do  as 
grievously  and  sorrowfully  forego,  as  in  a  manner  from 
their  own  lives,  if  they  should  altogether  at  once  be  taken 
from  the  Utopians,  no  man  there  would  think  that  he  had 
lost  the  worth  of  a  farthing. 

"They  gather  also  pearls  by  the  seaside,  and  diamonds 
and  carbuncles  upon  certain  rocks.    Yet  they  seek  not  for 


228  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

them,  but  by  chance  finding  them  they  cut  and  polish 
them.  And  therewith  they  deck  their  young  infants. 
Which,  Hke  as  in  the  first  years  of  their  childhood  they 
make  much  and  be  fond  and  proud  of  such  ornaments,  so 
when  they  be  a  little  more  grown  in  years  and  discretion, 
perceiving  that  none  but  children  do  wear  such  toys  and 
trifles,  they  lay  them  away  even  of  their  own  shamefast- 
ness,  without  any  bidding  of  their  parents,  even  as  our 
children  when  they  wax  big,  do  caste  away  nuts,  brooches 
and  dolls.  Therefore  these  laws  and  customs,  which  be 
so  far  different  from  all  other  nations,  how  divers  fancies 
also  and  minds  they  do  cause,  did  I  never  so  plainly 
perceive,  as  in  the  Ambassadors  of  the  Anemolians. 

"These  Ambassadors  came  to  Amaurote  whiles  I  was 
there.  And  because  they  came  to  entreat  of  great  and 
weighty  matters,  three  citizens  a  piece  out  of  every  city 
(of  Utopia)  were  come  thither  before  then.  But  all  the 
Ambassadors  of  the  next  countries,  which  had  been  there 
before,  and  knew  the  fashions  and  manners  of  the  Utopians, 
among  whom  they  perceived  no  honour  given  to  sumptu- 
ous and  costly  apparel,  silks  to  be  contemned,  gold  also 
to  be  infamed  and  reproachful,  were  wont  to  come  thither 
in  very  homely  and  simple  apparel.  But  the  Anemolians, 
because  they  dwell  far  thence,  and  had  very  little  ac- 
quaintance with  them,  hearing  that  they  were  all  ap- 
parelled alike,  and  that  very  rudely  and  homely,  thinking 
them  not  to  have  the  things  which  they  did  not  wear, 
being  therefore  more  proud  than  wise,  determined  in  the 
gorgeousness  of  their  apparel  to  represent  very  gods,  and 
with  the  bright  shining  and  glistering  of  their  gay  clothing 
to  dazzle  the  eyes  of  the  sillj^  poor  Utopians. 

"So  there  came  in  three  Ambassadors  with  a  hundred 
servants  all  apparelled  in  changeable  colours;  the  most 
of  them  in  silks;  the  Ambassadors  themselves  (for  at 
home  in  their  own  country  they  were  noble  men)  in  cloth 


THE  LAND  OF  NOWHERE  229 

of  gold,  with  great  chains  of  gold,  with  gold  hanging  at 
their  ears,  with  gold  rings  upon  their  fingers,  with  brooches 
and  aglettes  ^  of  gold  upon  their  caps,  which  glistered  full 
of  pearls  and  precious  stones;  to  be  short,  trimmed  and 
adorned  with  all  those  things,  which  among  the  Utopians 
were  either  the  punishment  of  bondmen,  or  the  reproach 
of  infamed  persons,  or  else  trifles  for  young  children  to  play 
withall. 

"Therefore  it  would  have  done  a  man  good  at  his  heart 
to  have  seen  how  proudly  they  displayed  their  peacocks' 
feathers;  how  much  they  made  of  their  painted  sheathes; 
and  how  loftily  they  set  forth  and  advanced  themselves, 
when  they  compared  their  gallant  apparel  with  the  poor 
raiment  of  the  Utopians.  For  all  the  people  were 
swarmed  forth  into  the  streets. 

"And  on  the  other  side  it  was  no  less  pleasure  to 
consider  how  much  they  were  deceived,  and  how  far  they 
missed  of  their  purpose;  being  contrary  ways  taken  than 
they  thought  they  should  have  been.  For  to  the  eyes 
of  all  the  Utopians,  except  very  few,  which  had  been  in 
other  countries  for  some  reasonable  cause,  all  that  gorgeous- 
ness  of  apparel  seemed  shameful  and  reproachful;  in  so 
much  that  they  most  reverently  saluted  the  vilest  and 
most  abject  of  them  for  lords;  passing  over  the  Am- 
bassadors themselves  without  any  honour;  judging  them 
by  their  wearing  of  golden  chains  to  be  bondmen. 

"Yea,  you  should  have  seen  children  also  that  had  cast 
away  their  pearls  and  precious  stones,  when  they  saw 
the  like  sticking  upon  the  Ambassadors'  caps,  dig  and  push 
their  mothers  under  the  sides,  saying  thus  to  them: 
'Look,  mother,  how  great  a  lubber  doth  j^et  wear  pearls 
and  precious  stones,  as  though  he  were  a  little  child  still.' 

"But  the  mother,  yea,  and  that  also  in  good  earnest: 

*  Hanging  ornaments. 


230  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

*Peace,  son,'  saith  she,  'I  think  he  be  some  of  the 
Ambassadors'  fools.' 

"Some  found  fault  with  their  golden  chains,  as  to  no 
use  nor  purpose;  being  so  small  and  weak,  that  a  bondman 
might  easily  break  them;  and  again  so  wide  and  large, 
that,  when  it  pleased  him,  he  might  cast  them  off,  and  run 
away  at  liberty  whither  he  would. 

"But  when  the  Ambassadors  had  been  there  a  day  or 
two,  and  saw  so  great  abundance  of  gold  so  lightly  es- 
teemed, yea,  in  no  less  reproach  that  it  was  with  them  in 
honour;  and,  besides  that,  more  gold  in  the  chains  and 
gyves  of  one  fugitive  bondman,  than  all  the  costly  orna- 
ments of  their  three  was  worth;  they  began  a-bate  their 
courage,  and  for  very  shame  laid  away  all  that  gorgeous 
array  whereof  they  were  so  proud;  and  especially  when 
they  had  talked  familiarly  with  the  Utopians,  and  had 
learned  all  their  fashions  and  opinions.  For  they 
marvel  that  any  man  be  so  foolish  as  to  have  delight 
and  pleasure  in  the  glistering  of  a  little  trifling  stone,  which 
may  behold  any  of  the  stars,  or  else  the  sun  itself;  or  that 
any  man  is  so  mad  as  to  count  himself  the  nobler  for  the 
smaller  or  finer  thread  of  wool,  which  self -same  wool  (be 
it  now  in  never  so  fine  a  spun  thread)  did  once  a  sheep 
wear,  and  yet  was  she  all  that  time  no  other  thing  than  a 
sheep." 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII 

THE  DEATH  OF  SIR  THOMAS  MORE 

There  is  much  that  is  quaint,  much  that  is  deeply  wise, 
in  More's  Utopia,  still  no  one  is  likely  to  agree  with  all  he 
says,  or  to  think  that  we  could  all  be  happy  in  a  world  such 
as  he  describes.  For  one  thing,  to  those  of  us  who  love 
color  it  would  seem  a  dull  world  indeed  were  we  all 
forced  to  dress  in  coarse-spun,  undyed  sheep's  wool,  and 
if  jewels  and  gold  with  all  their  lovely  lights  and  gleamings 
were  but  the  signs  of  degradation.  Each  one  who  reads  it 
may  find  something  in  the  Utopia  that  he  would  rather 
have  otherwise.  But  each  one,  too,  will  find  something 
to  make  him  think. 

More  was  not  the  first  to  write  about  a  happy  land 
where  every  one  lived  in  peace  and  where  only  justice 
reigned.  And  if  he  got  some  of  his  ideas  of  the  island 
from  the  discoveries  of  the  New  World,  he  got  many  more 
from  the  New  Learning.  For  long  before,  Plato,  a  Greek 
writer,  had  told  of  a  land  very  like  Utopia  in  his  book 
called  the  Republic.  And  the  New  Learning  had  made 
that  book  known  to  the  people  of  England. 

We  think  of  the  Utopia  as  English  literature,  yet  we 
must  remember  that  JMore  wrote  it  in  Latin,  and  it  was 
not  translated  into  English  until  several  years  after  his 
death.  The  first  English  translation  was  made  bj^  Ralph 
Robinson,  and  although  since  then  there  have  been  other 
translations  which  in  some  ways  are  more  correct,  there 
has  never  been  one  with  more   charm.     For  Robinson's 

231 


232  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

quaint  English  keeps  for  us  something  of  the  spirit  of 
More's  time  and  of  More's  self  in  a  way  no  modern  and 
more  perfect  translation  can. 

The  JJtojna  was  not  written  for  one  time  or  for  one 
people.  Even  before  it  was  translated  into  English  it  had 
been  translated  into  Dutch,  Italian,  German,  and  French 
and  was  largely  read  all  over  the  Continent.  It  is  still 
read  to-day  by  all  who  are  interested  in  the  life  of  the 
people,  by  all  who  think  that  in  "this  best  of  all  possible 
worlds"  things  might  still  be  made  better. 

More  wrote  many  other  books  both  in  English  and  in 
Latin  and  besides  being  a  busy  author  he  led  a  busy  life. 
For  blustering,  burly,  selfish  King  Henry  loved  the  gentle, 
witty  lawyer,  and  again  and  again  made  use  of  his  wits. 
"And  so  from  time  to  time  was  he  by  the  King  advanced, 
continuing  in  his  singidar  favour  and  trusty  service  twenty 
years  and  above."  ^ 

It  was  not  only  for  his  business  cleverness  that  King 
Henry  loved  Sir  Thomas.  It  was  for  his  merry,  witty 
talk.  When  business  was  done  and  supper-time  came, 
the  King  and  Queen  would  call  for  him  "to  be  merry  with 
them."  Thus  it  came  about  that  Sir  Thomas  could  hardly 
ever  get  home  to  his  wife  and  children,  where  he  most 
longed  to  be.  Then  he  began  to  pretend  to  be  less  clever 
than  he  was,  so  that  the  King  might  not  want  so  much  of 
his  company.  But  Henry  would  sometimes  follow  JNIore 
to  his  home  at  Chelsea,  where  he  had  built  a  beautiful 
house.  Sometimes  he  came  quite  unexpectedly  to  dinner. 
Once  he  came,  "and  after  dinner,  in  a  fair  garden  of  his, 
walked  with  him  b}^  the  space  of  an  hour,  holding  his  arm 
about  his  neck."  As  soon  as  the  King  was  gone,  jMore's 
son-in-law  said  to  him  that  he  should  be  happy  seeing 
the  King  was  so  friendly  with  him,  for  with  no  other  man 
was  he  so  familiar,  not  even  with  Wolsey. 

1  W.  Roper. 


THE  DEATH  OF  SIR  THOMAS  MORE     233 

"I  thank  our  Lord,"  answered  More,  "I  find  in  his 
Grace  a  very  good  lord  indeed,  and  I  believe  he  doth  as 
singularly  favour  me  as  any  subject  within  the  realm. 
Howbeit,  son  Roper,  I  may  tell  thee,  I  have  no  cause  to 
be  proud  thereof,  for  if  my  head  would  win  him  a  castle 
in  France  it  should  not  fail  to  go." 

And  Sir  Thomas  was  not  wrong.  Meanwhile,  however, 
the  King  heaped  favor  upon  him.  He  became  Treasurer 
of  the  Exchequer,  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
Chancellor  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster,  and  last  of  all  Lord 
Chancellor  of  England.  This  was  a  very  great  honor. 
And  as  More  was  a  layman  the  honor  was  for  him  greater 
than  usual.  For  he  was  the  first  layman  to  be  made 
Chancellor.  Until  then  the  Chancellor  had  always  been 
some  powerful   Churchman. 

More  was  not  eager  for  these  honors.  He  would 
much  rather  have  lived  a  simple  family  life,  but  blufi* 
King  Hal  was  no  easy  master  to  serve.  If  he  chose  to 
honor  a  man  and  set  him  high,  that  man  could  but  submit. 
So,  as  Erasmus  says,  INIore  was  dragged  into  public  life 
and  honor,  and  being  thus  dragged  in  troubles  were  not 
slow  to  follow. 

Henry  grew  tired  of  his  wife,  Queen  Catherine,  but  the 
Pope  would  not  allow  him  to  divorce  her  so  that  he  might 
marry  another.  Then  Henry  quarreled  with  the  Pope. 
The  Pope,  he  said,  should  no  longer  have  power  in  England. 
He  should  no  longer  be  head  of  the  Church,  but  the  people 
must  henceforth  look  to  the  King  as  such.  This  More 
could  not  do.  He  tried  to  keep  out  of  the  quarrel.  He 
was  true  to  his  King  as  king,  but  he  felt  that  he  must  be 
true  to  his  religion  too.  To  him  the  Pope  was  the  repre- 
sentative of  Christ  on  earth,  and  he  could  look  to  no  other 
as  head  of  the  Church.  When  first  INIore  had  come  into 
the  King's  service,  Henry  bade  him  "first  look  unto  God, 
and  after  God  unto  him."     Of  this  his   Chancellor  now 


234  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

reminded  liim,  and  laj^ing  down  his  seal  of  office  he  went 
home,  hoping  to  live  the  rest  of  his  days  in  peace. 

But  that  was  not  to  be.  "It  is  perilous  striving  with 
princes,"  said  a  friend.  "I  would  wish  you  somewhat  to 
incline  to  the  King's  pleasure.  The  anger  of  princes  is 
death." 

"Is  that  all?"  replied  JNIore  calmly;  "then  in  good 
faith  the  diif erence  between  you  and  me  is  but  this,  that  I 
shall  die  to-day  and  you  to-morrow." 

So  it  fell  out.  There  came  a  day  when  messengers 
came  to  More's  happy  home,  and  the  beloved  father  was 
led  away  to  imprisonment  and  death. 

For  fifteen  months  he  was  kept  in  the  Tower.  During 
all  that  time  his  cheerful  steadfastness  did  not  waver. 
He  wrote  long  letters  to  his  children,  and  chiefly  to  Meg, 
his  best-loved  daughter.  When  pen  and  ink  were  taken 
away  from  him,  he  still  wrote  with  coal.  In  these  months 
he  became  an  old  man,  bent  and  crippled  with  disease. 
But  though  his  body  was  feeble  his  mind  was  clear,  his 
spirit  bright  as  ever.  No  threats  or  promises  could  shake 
his  purpose.  He  could  not  and  would  not  own  Henry  as 
head  of  the  Church. 

At  last  the  end  came.  In  Westminster  Hall  More  was 
tried  for  treason  and  found  guilty.  From  Westminster 
through  the  thronging  streets  he  was  led  back  again  to  the 
Tower.  In  front  of  the  prisoner  an  ax  was  carried,  the 
edge  being  turned  towards  him.  That  was  the  sign  to  all 
who  saw  that  he  was  to  die. 

As  the  sad  procession  reached  the  Tower  Wharf  there 
was  a  pause.  A  young  and  beautiful  woman  darted  from 
the  crowd,  and  caring  not  for  the  soldiers  who  surrounded 
him,  unafraid  of  their  swords  and  halberds,  she  reached  the 
old  man's  side,  and  threw  herself  sobbing  on  his  breast. 
It  was  Margaret,  More's  beloved  daughter,  who,  fearing 
that  never  again  she  might  see  her  father,  thus  came  in 


THE  DEATH  OF  SIR  THOMAS  MORE    235 

the  open  street  to  say  farewell.  She  clung  to  him  and 
kissed  him  in  sight  of  all  again  and  again,  but  no  word 
could  she  say  save  "Oh,  my  father!  oh,  my  father!" 

Then  Sir  Thomas,  holding  her  tenderly,  comforted  and 
blessed  her,  and  at  last  she  took  her  arms  from  about  his 
neck  and  he  passed  on.  But  Margaret  could  not  yet  leave 
him.  Scarcely  had  she  gone  ten  steps  than  suddenly  she 
turned  back.  Once  more  breaking  through  the  guard  she 
threw  her  arms  about  him.  Not  a  word  did  Sir  Thomas 
say,  but  as  he  held  her  there  the  tears  fell  fast  from  his 
eyes,  while  from  the  crowd  around  broke  the  sound  of 
weeping.  Even  the  guards  wept  for  pity.  But  at  last, 
with  full  and  heavy  hearts,  father  and  daughter  parted. 

"Dear  JNIeg,"  Sir  Thomas  wrote  for  the  last  time,  "I 
never  liked  your  manner  better  towards  me  than  when 
you  kissed  me  last.  For  I  like  when  daughterly  love  and 
dear  charity  hath  no  leisure  to  look  to  worldly  courtesy." 

Next  day  he  died  cheerfully  as  he  had  lived.  To  the 
last  he  jested  in  his  quaint  fashion.  The  scaffold  was  so 
badly  built  that  it  was  ready  to  fall,  so  Sir  Thomas,  jesting, 
turned  to  the  lieutenant.  "I  pray  you,  Master  Lieu- 
tenant," he  said,  "see  me  safe  up,  and  for  my  coming  down 
let  me  shift  for  myself."  He  desired  the  people  to  pray  for 
him,  and  having  kissed  the  executioner  in  token  of  forgive- 
ness, he  laid  his  head  upon  the  block.  "So  passed  Sir 
Thomas  More  out  of  the  world  to  God."  His  death  was 
mourned  by  many  far  and  near.  "Had  we  been  master 
of  such  a  servant,"  said  the  Emperor  Charles  when  he  heard 
of  it,  "we  would  rather  have  lost  the  best  city  of  our 
dominions  than  have  lost  such  a  worthy  counselor." 

More  died  for  his  faith,  that  of  the  Catholic  Church. 
He,  as  others,  saw  with  grief  that  there  was  much  within 
the  Church  that  needed  to  be  made  better,  but  he  trusted 
it  would  be  made  better.  To  break  away  from  the  Church, 
to  doubt  the  headship  of  the  Pope,   seemed  to  him  such 


236  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

wickedness  that  he  hated  the  Reformers  and  wrote  against 
them.  And  although  in  Utopia  he  allowed  his  happy 
people  to  have  full  freedom  in  matters  of  religion,  in  real 
life  he  treated  sternly  and  even  cruelly  those  Protestants 
with  whom  he  had  to  deal. 

Yet  the  Reformation  was  stirring  all  the  world,  and 
while  Sir  Thomas  JSIore  cheerfully  and  steadfastly  died  for 
the  Catholic  faith,  there  were  others  in  England  who  as 
cheerfully  lived,  worked,  and  died  for  the  Protestant  faith. 
We  have  little  to  do  with  these  Reformers  in  this  book, 
except  in  so  far  as  they  touch  our  literature,  and  it  is  to 
them  that  we  owe  our  present  Bible. 

First  William  Tyndale,  amid  difficulties  and  trials, 
translated  afresh  the  New  and  part  of  the  Old  Testament, 
and  died  the  death  of  a  martyr  in  1536. 

]Miles  Coverdale  followed  him  with  a  complete  transla- 
tion in  happier  times.  For  Henry  viii.,  for  his  own  pur- 
poses, wished  to  spread  a  knowledge  of  the  Bible,  and 
commanded  that  a  copy  of  Coverdale's  Bible  should  be 
placed  in  every  parish  church.  And  although  Coverdale 
was  not  so  great  a  scholar  as  Tyndale,  his  language  was 
fine  and  stately,  with  a  musical  ring  about  the  words,  and 
to  this  day  we  still  keep  his  version  of  the  Psalms  in  the 
Prayer  Book. 

Other  versions  of  the  Bible  followed  these,  until  in  1611, 
in  the  reign  of  James  i.  and  vi.,  the  translation  which  we 
use  to-day  was  at  length  published.  That  has  stood  and 
still  stands  the  test  of  time.  And,  had  we  no  other 
reason  to  treasure  it,  we  would  still  for  its  simple  musical 
language  look  upon  it  as  one  of  the  fine  things  in  our 
literature. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Life  of  Sir  Thomas  More  (King's  Classics,  modern  English),  by  W.  Roper  (his 
son-in-law).  Utopia  (King's  Classics,  modern  English),  translated  by  R.  Robin- 
son.    Utopia  (old  English),  edited  by  Churton  Collins. 


CHAPTER  XXXIX 

HOW  THE  SONNET  CAME  TO  ENGLAND 

Upon  a  January  day  in  1527  two  gaily  decked  barges  met 
upon  the  Thames.  In  the  one  sat  a  man  of  forty.  His 
fair  hair  and  beard  were  already  touched  with  gray.  His 
face  was  grave  and  thoughtful,  and  his  eyes  gave  to  it  a 
curious  expression,  for  the  right  was  dull  and  sightless, 
w^hile  with  the  left  he  looked  about  him  sharply.  This  was 
Sir  John  Russell,  gentleman  of  the  Privy  Chamber,  soldier, 
ambassador,  and  favorite  of  King  Henry  viii.  Fighting 
in  the  King's  French  wars  he  had  lost  the  sight  of  his  right 
eye.  Since  then  he  had  led  a  busy  life  in  court  and  camp, 
passing  through  many  perilous  adventures  in  the  service 
of  his  master,  and  now  once  again  by  the  King's  commands 
he  was  about  to  set  forth  for  Italy. 

As  the  other  barge  drew  near  Russell  saw  that  in  it 
there  sat  Thomas  Wyatt,  a  young  poet  and  courtier  of 
twenty-three.  He  was  tall  and  handsome,  and  his  thick 
dark  hair  framed  a  pale,  clever  face  which  now  looked 
listless.  But  as  his  dreamy  poet's  eyes  met  those  of  Sir 
John  they  lighted  up.  The  two  men  greeted  each  other 
familiarly.  "Whither  away,"  cried  Wyatt,  for  he  saw  that 
Russell  was  prepared  for  a  journey. 

"To  Italj^,  sent  by  the  King." 

To  Italy,  the  land  of  Poetry!  The  idea  fired  the  poet's 
soul. 

"And  I,"  at  once  he  answered,  "will,  if  you  please, 
ask  leave,  get  money,  and  go  with  you." 

237 


238  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"No  man  more  welcome,"  answered  the  ambassador, 
and  so  it  was  settled  between  them.  The  money  and  the 
leave  were  both  forthcommg,  and  Thomas  Wyatt  passed  to 
Italy.  This  chance  meeting  and  this  visit  to  Italy  are  of 
importance  to  our  literature,  because  the}'^  led  to  a  new  kind 
of  poem  being  written  in  English.    This  was  the  Sonnet. 

The  Sonnet  is  a  poem  of  fourteen  lines,  and  is  perhaps 
the  most  difficult  kind  of  poem  to  write.  It  is  divided  into 
two  parts.  The  first  part  has  eight  lines  and  ought  only 
to  have  two  rimes.  That  is,  supposing  we  take  words 
riming  with  loA^e  and  king  for  our  rimes,  four  lines 
must  rime  with  love  and  four  with  king.  The  rimes, 
too,  must  come  in  a  certain  order.  The  first,  fourth,  fifth 
and  eighth  lines  must  rime,  and  the  second,  third,  sixth, 
and  seventh.  This  first  part  is  called  the  octave,  from 
the  Latin  word  octo,  eight.  The  second  part  contains  six 
lines,  and  is  therefore  called  the  sextet,  from  the  Latin 
word  sex,  meaning  six.  The  sextet  may  have  either  two 
or  three  rimes,  and  these  may  be  arranged  in  almost 
any  order.  But  a  correct  sonnet  ought  not  to  end  with 
a  couplet,  that  is  two  riming  lines.  However,  very  many 
good  writers  in  English  do  so  end  their  sonnets. 

As  the  sonnet  is  so  bound  about  with  rules,  it  often 
makes  the  thought  which  it  expresses  sound  a  little  unreal. 
And  for  that  very  reason  it  suited  the  times  in  which  Wyatt 
lived.  In  those  far-off  days  every  knight  had  a  lady 
whom  he  vowed  to  serve  and  love.  He  took  her  side  in 
every  quarrel,  and  if  he  were  a  poet,  or  even  if  he  were  not, 
he  wrote  verses  in  her  honor,  and  sighed  and  died  for  her. 
The  lady  was  not  supposed  to  do  anything  in  return;  she 
might  at  most  smile  upon  her  knight  or  drop  her  glove, 
that  he  might  be  made  happy  hj  picking  it  up.  In  fact, 
the  more  disdainful  the  lady  might  be  the  better  it  was, 
for  then  the  poet  could  ^^Tite  the  more  passionate  verses. 
For  all  this  love  and  service  was  make-believe.     It  was 


HOW  THE  SONNET  CAME  TO  ENGLAND  239 

merely  a  fashion  and  not  meant  to  be  taken  seriously. 
A  man  might  have  a  wife  whom  he  loved  dearly,  and  yet 
write  poems  in  honor  of  another  lady  without  thought 
of  wrong.  The  sonnet,  having  something  very  artificial 
in  it,  just  suited  this  make-believe  love. 

Petrarch,  the  great  Italian  poet,  from  whom  you 
remember  Chaucer  had  learned  much,  and  whom  perhaps 
he  had  once  met,  made  use  of  this  kind  of  poem.  In  his 
sonnets  he  told  his  love  of  a  fair  lady,  Laura,  and  made 
her  famous  for  all  time. 

Of  course,  when  Wyatt  came  to  Italy  Petrarch  had  long 
been  dead.  But  his  poems  were  as  living  as  in  the  days  of 
Chaucer,  and  it  was  from  Petrarch's  works  that  Wyatt 
learned  this  new  kind  of  poem,  and  it  was  he  who  first 
made  use  of  it  in  English.  He,  too,  like  Petrarch,  addressed 
his  sonnets  to  a  lady,  and  the  lady  he  took  for  his  love  was 
Queen  Anne  Boleyn.  As  he  is  the  first,  he  is  perhaps  one 
of  the  roughest  of  our  sonnet  writers,  but  into  his  sonnets 
he  wrought  something  of  manly  strength.  He  does  not 
sigh  so  much  as  other  poets  of  the  age.  He  says,  in  fact, 
*Tf  I  serve  my  lady  faithfully  I  deserve  reward."  Here  is 
one  of  his  sonnets,  which  he  calls  "The  lover  compareth 
his  state  to  a  ship  in  perilous  storm  tossed  by  the  sea." 

"My  galley  charged  with  forgetfulness, 
Through  sharpe  seas  in  winter's  night  doth  pass, 
'Tween  rock  and  rock;  and  eke  my  foe  (alas) 
That  is  my  lord,  steereth  with  cruelness: 
And  every  oar  a  thought  in  readiness, 
As  though  that  death  were  light  in  such  a  case. 
An  endless  wind  doth  tear  the  sail  apace, 
Of   forced   sighs   and  trusty   f earfulness ; 
A  rain  of  tears,  a  cloud  of  dark  disdain, 
Have  done  the  wearied  cords  great  hinderance: 
Wreathed  with  error  and  with  ignorance; 
The  stars  be  hid,  that  lead  me  to  this  pain; 
Drowned  is  reason  that  should  me  comfort. 
And  I  remain,  despairing  of  the  port." 


240  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

It  is  not  perfect,  it  is  not  even  Wyatt's  best  sonnet,  but 
it  is  one  of  the  most  simple.  To  make  it  run  smoothly  we 
must  sound  the  ed  in  these  words  ending  in  ed  as  a  separate 
syllable,  and  we  must  put  a  final  e  to  sharp  in  the  second 
line  and  sound  that.  Then  you  see  the  rimes  are  not 
very  good.  To  begin  with,  the  first  eight  all  have  sounds 
of  s.  Then  "alas"  and  "pass"  do  not  rime  with  "case" 
and  "apace,"  nor  do  "comfort"  and  "port."  I  point  these 
things  out,  so  that  later  on  you  may  see  for  yourselves 
how  much  more  polished  and  elegant  a  thing  the  sonnet 
becomes. 

Although  Wyatt  was  our  first  sonnet  writer,  some  of  his 
poems  which  are  not  sonnets  are  much  more  musical, 
especially  some  he  wrote  for  music.  Perhaps  best  of  all 
you  will  like  his  satire  Of  the  7nean  and  sure  estate. 
A  satire  is  a  poem  which  holds  up  to  scorn  and  ridicule 
wickedness,  folly,  or  stupidity.  It  is  the  sword  of  litera- 
ture, and  often  its  edge  was  keen,  its  point  sharp. 

"My  mother's  maids  when  they  do  sew  and  spin. 
They  sing  a  song  made  of  the  fieldish  mouse; 
That  for  because  her  livelod  ^  was  but  thin 
Would  needs  go  see  her  townish  sister's  house. 

'My  sister,'  quoth  she,  'hath  a  living  good, 
And  hence   from  me  she  dwelleth  not  a  mile. 
In  cold  and  storm  she  lieth  warm  and  dry 
In  bed  of  down.     The  dirt  doth  not  defile 
Her  tender  foot;  she  labours  not  as  I. 
RichW  she  feeds,  and  at  the  rich  man's  cost; 
And  for  her  meat  she  need  not  crave  nor  cry. 
By  sea,  by  land,  of  delicates  ^  the  most. 
Her  caterer  seeks,  and  spareth  for  no  peril. 
She  feeds  on  boil  meat,  bake  meat  and  roast. 
And  hath,  therefore,  no  whit  of  charge  or  travail.' 


Livelihood.  *  Delicacies. 


HOW  THE  SONNET  CAME  TO  ENGLAND    241 

So  forth  she  goes,  trusting  of  all  thi«  wealth 

With  her  sister  her  part  so  for  to  shape, 

That  if  she  might  there  keep  herself  in  health, 

To  live  a  Lad}',  while  her  life  do  last. 

And  to  the  door  now  is  she  come  by  stealth. 

And  with  her  foot  anon  she  scrapes  full  fast. 

Th'  other  for  fear  durst  not  well  scarce  appear. 

Of  every  noise  so  was  the  wretch  aghast. 

At  last  she  asked  softly  who  was  there; 

And  in  her  language  as  well  as  she  could, 

'Peep,'   quoth  the   other,   'sister,   I   am   here.' 

'Peace,'   quoth  the  town  mouse,   'why   speaketh  thou  so 

loud.?' 
But  by  the  hand  she  took  her  fair  and  well. 
'Welcome,'  quoth  she,  'my  sister  by  the  Rood.' 
She  feasted  her  that  joy  it  was  to  tell 
The  fare  they  had,  they  drank  the  wine  so  clear; 
And  as  to  purpose  now  and  then  it  fell. 
So  cheered  her  with,  'How,  sister,  what  cheer.' 
Amid  this  joy  befell  a  sorry  chance. 
That  welladay,  the  stranger  bought  full  dear 
The  fare  she  had.     For  as  she  looked  ascance. 
Under  a  stool  she  spied  two  flaming  eyes. 
In  a  round  head,  with  sharp  ears.     In  France 
W^as  never  mouse  so  feared,  for  the  unwise 
Had  not  ere  seen  such  beast  before. 
Yet  had  nature  taught  her  after  her  guise 
To  know  her  foe,  and  dread  him  evermore. 
The  town  mouse  fled,  she  knew  whither  to  go; 
The  other  had  no  shift,  but  wonders  sore, 
Fear'd  of  her  life!     At  home  she  wished  her  tho'; 
And  to  the  door,  alas !  as  she  did  skip 
(The  heaven  it  would,  lo,  and  eke  her  chance  was  so) 
At  the  threshold  her  silly  foot  did  trip; 
And  ere  she  might  recover  it  again, 
The  traitor  Cat  had  caught  her  by  the  hip 
And  made  her  there  against  her  will  remain. 
That  had  forgot  her  poor  surety  and  rest, 
For  seeming  wealth,  wherein  she  thought  to  reign." 

That  is  not  the  end  of  the  poem.     Wyatt  points  the 
moral.    "Alas,"  he  says,  "how  men  do  seek  the  best  and  find 


242  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  worst."  "Although  thy  head  were  hooped  with  gold," 
thou  canst  not  rid  thyself  of  care.  Content  thyself,  then, 
with  what  is  allotted  thee  and  use  it  well. 

This  satire  Wyatt  wrote  while  living  quietly  in  the 
country,  having  barely  escaped  with  his  life  from  the  King's 
wrath.  But  although  he  escaped  the  scaffold,  he  died  soon 
after  in  his  King's  service.  Riding  on  the  King's  business 
in  the  autumn  of  1542  he  became  overheated,  fell  into  a 
fever,  and  died.  He  was  buried  at  Sherborne.  No  stone 
marks  his  resting-place,  but  his  friend  and  fellow-poet, 
Henry  Howard,  Earl  of  Surrey,  wrote  a  noble  elegy: — 

"A  head,  where  Wisdom  mysteries  did  frame; 
Whose  hammers  beat  still,  in  that  lively  brain. 
As  on  a  stithy  ^  where  that  some  work  of  fame 
Was  daily  wrought,  to  turn  to  Britain's  gain. 

A  hand,  that  taught  what  might  be  said  in  rhyme. 
That  Chaucer  reft  the  glory  of  his  wit. 
A  mark,  the  which  (unperfected  for  time) 
Some  may  approach;  but  never  none  shall  hit!" 

BOOK  TO  READ 

Early  Sixteenth-C entury  Lyrics  (Belle  Lettres  Series),  edited  by  F.  M.  Padel- 
ford   (original  spelling). 


*  Anvil. 


CHAPTER  XL 

THE  BEGINNING  OF  BLANK  VERSE 

The  poet  with  whose  verses  the  last  chapter  ended  was 
named  Henry  Howard,  Earl  of  Surrey.  The  son  of  a 
noble  and  ancient  house,  Surrey  lived  a  gay  life  in  court  and 
camp.  Proud,  hot-headed,  quick-tempered,  he  was  often 
in  trouble,  more  than  once  in  prison.  In  youth  he  was 
called  "the  most  foolish  proud  boy  in  England,"  and  at  the 
age  of  thirty,  still  young  and  gay  and  full  of  life,  he  died 
upon  the  scaiFold.  Accused  of  treason,  yet  innocent,  he 
fell  a  victim  to  "the  wrath  of  princes,"  the  wrath  of  that 
hot-headed  King  Henry  viii.  Surrey  lived  at  the  same 
time  as  Wyatt  and,  although  he  was  fourteen  years 
younger,  was  his  friend.  Together  they  are  the  forerunners 
of  our  modern  poetry.  They  are  nearly  always  spoken  of 
together — Wyatt  and  Surrey — Surrey  and  Wyatt.  Like 
Wyatt,  Surrey  followed  the  Italian  poets.  Like  Wyatt  he 
wrote  sonnets;  but  whereas  Wyatt's  are  rough,  Surrey's 
are  smooth  and  musical,  although  he  does  not  keep  the 
rules  about  rime  endings.  One  who  WTote  not  long 
after  the  time  of  Wyatt  and  Surrey  says  of  them,  "Sir 
Thomas  Wyatt,  the  elder,  and  Henry,  Earl  of  Surrey,  were 
the  two  chieftains,  who,  having  travelled  in  Italy,  and 
there  tasted  the  sweet  and  stately  measures  and  style  of 
the  Italian  poesie  .  .  .  greatly  polished  our  rude  and 
homely  manner  of  vulgar  poesie  from  that  it  had  been 
before,  and  for  that  cause  may  justly  be  said  the  first 
reformers  of  our  English  metre  and  style.  ...  I  repute 

243 


2M  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

them  for  the  two  chief  lanterns  of  light  to  all  others  that 
have  since  employed  their  pens  on  English  poesie."  ^ 

A  later  writer  ^  has  called  Surrey  the  "first  refiner"  of 
our  language.  And  just  as  there  comes  a  time  in  our  own 
lives  when  we  begin  to  care  not  only  for  the  story,  but  for 
the  words  in  which  a  story  is  told  and  for  the  way  in  which 
those  words  are  used,  so,  too,  there  comes  such  a  time 
in  the  life  of  a  nation,  and  this  time  for  England  we  may 
perhaps  date  from  Wyatt  and  Surrey.  Before  then  there 
were  men  who  tried  to  use  the  best  words  in  the  best  way, 
but  they  did  it  unknowingly,  as  birds  might  sing.  The 
language,  too,  in  which  they  wrote  was  still  a  growing 
thing.  When  Surrey  wrote  it  had  nearly  reached  its 
finished  state,  and  he  helped  to  finish  and  polish  it. 

As  the  fashion  was,  Surrey  chose  a  lady  to  whom  to 
address  his  verses.  She  was  the  little  Lady  Elizabeth 
Fitz-Gerald,  whose  father  had  died  a  broken-hearted 
prisoner  in  the  Tower.  She  was  only  ten  when  Surrey 
made  her  famous  in  song,  under  the  name  of  Geraldine. 
Here  is  a  sonnet  in  which  he,  seeing  the  joy  of  all  nature  at 
the  coming  of  Spring,  mourns  that  his  lady  is  still  unkind: 

"The  sweet  season,  that  bud  and  bloom  forth  brings, 
With  green  hath  clad  the  hill,  and  eke  the  vale, 
The  nightingale  with  feathers  new  she  sings: 
The  turtle  to  her  mate  hith  told  her  tale. 
Summer  is  come,  for  every  spray  now  springs, 
The  hart  hath  hung  his  old  head  on  the  pale. 
The  buck  in  haste  his  winter  coat  he  flings; 
The  fishes  float  with  new  repaired  scale, 
The  adder  all  her  slough  away  she  slings; 
The  swift  swallow  pursueth  the  flies  small; 
The  busy-bee  her  honey  now  she  mings ;  ^ 
Winter  is  worn  that  was  the  flowers'  bale. 
And  thus  I  see  among  these  pleasant  things 
Each  care  decays,  and  yet  my  sorrow  springs." 

^  G.  Puttenham,  Art  of  English  Poesie.  '  W.  J.  Courthopc. 

'  Mingles. 


THE  BEGINNING  OF  BLANK  VERSE     245 

Besides  following  Wyatt  in  making  the  sonnet  known 
to  English  readers,  Surrey  was  the  first  to  write  in  blank 
verse,  that  is  in  long  ten-syllabled  lines  which  do  not 
rime.  This  is  a  kind  of  poetry  in  which  some  of  the 
grandest  poems  in  our  language  are  written,  and  we  should 
remember  Surrey  as  the  first  maker  of  it.  For  with  very 
little  change  the  rules  which  Surrey  laid  down  have  been 
followed  by  our  best  poets  ever  since,  so  from  the  sixteenth 
century  till  now  there  has  been  far  less  change  in  our 
poetry  than  in  the  five  centuries  before.  You  can  see  this 
for  yourself  if  you  compare  Surrey's  poetry  with  Laya- 
mon's  or  Langland's,  and  then  with  some  of  the  blank 
verse  near  the  end  of  this  book. 

It  was  in  translating  part  of  Virgil's  Mneid  that  Surrey 
used  blank  verse.  Virgil  was  an  ancient  Roman  poet, 
born  70  b.c,  who  in  his  book  called  the  JEneid  told  of  the 
wanderings  and  adventures  of  ^neas,  and  part  of  this 
poem  Surrey  translated  into  English. 

This  is  how  he  tells  of  the  way  in  which  ^neas  saved 
his  old  father  by  carrying  him  on  his  shoulders  out  of  the 
burning  town  of  Troy  when  "The  crackling  flame  was  heard 
throughout  the  walls,  and  more  and  more  the  burning  heat 
drew  near." 

"My  shoulders  broad^ 
And  layed  neck  with  garments  'gan  I  spread, 
And  thereon  cast  a  yellow  lion's  skin; 
And  thereupon  my  burden  I  receive. 
Young  lulus  clasped  in  my  right  hand, 
Followeth  me  fast,  with  unequal  pace. 
And  at  my  back  my  wife.     Thus  did  we  pass 
By  places  shadowed  most  with  the  night, 
And  me,  whom  late  the  dart  whicli  enemies  threw. 
Nor  press  of  Argive  routs  could  make  amaz'd, 
Each  whisp'ring  wind  hath  power  now  to  fray. 
And  every  sound  to  move  my  doubtful  mind. 
So  much  I  dread  my  burden  and  my  fere.^ 

'  Companion. 


246  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  now  we  'gan  draw  near  unto  the  gate, 
Right  well  eseap'd  the  danger,  as  me  thought. 
When  that  at  hand  a  sound  of  feet  we  heard. 
My  father  then,  gazing  throughout  the  dark. 
Cried  on  me,  'Flee,  son !  they  are  at  hand.' 
With  that,  bright  shields,  and  shene  ^  armours  I  saw 
But  then,  I  know  not  what  unfriendly  god 
My  troubled  wit  from  me  bereft  for  fear. 
For  while  I  ran  by  the  most  secret  streets. 
Eschewing  still  the  common  haunted  track. 
From  me,  catif,  alas !  bereaved  was 
Creusa  then,  my  spouse;  I  wot  not  how. 
Whether  by  fate,  or  missing  of  the  way. 
Or  that  she  was  by  weariness  retain'd; 
But  never  sith  these  eyes  might  her  behold. 
Nor  did  I  yet  perceive  that  she  was  lost. 
Nor  never  backward  turned  I  my  mind; 
Till  we  came  to  the  hill  whereon  there  stood 
The  old  temple  dedicate  to  Ceres. 

And  when  that  we  were  there  assembled  all. 
She  was  only  away  deceiving  us. 
Her  spouse,  her  son,  and  all  her  company. 
What  god  or  man  did  I  not  then  accuse. 
Near  wode  ^  for  ire  ?  or  what  more  cruel  chance 
Did  hap  to  me  in  all  Troy's  overthrow?" 

^  Bright.  »  Mad. 


CHAPTER  XLI 

SPENSER— THE  "SHEPHERD'S  CALENDAR" 

When  Henry  signed  Surrey's  death-warrant  he  himself 
was  near  death,  and  not  many  weeks  later  the  proud  and 
violent  king  met  his  end.  Then  followed  for  England 
changeful  times.  After  Protestant  Edward  came  for  a 
tragic  few  days  Lady  Jane.  Then  followed  the  short,  sad 
reign  of  Catholic  Mary,  who,  dying,  left  the  throne  free 
for  her  brilliant  sister  Elizabeth.  Those  years,  from  the 
death  of  King  Hemy  viii.  to  the  end  of  the  first  twenty 
years  of  Elizabeth's  reign,  were  years  of  action  rather  than 
of  production.  They  were  years  of  struggle,  during  which 
England  was  swayed  to  and  fro  in  the  fight  of  religions. 
They  were  years  during  which  the  fury  of  the  storm  of  the 
Reformation  worked  itself  out.  But  although  they  were 
such  unquiet  years  they  were  also  years  of  growth,  and  at 
the  end  of  that  time  there  blossomed  forth  one  of  the  fairest 
seasons  of  our  literature. 

We  call  the  whole  group  of  authors  who  sprang  up  at 
this  time  the  Elizabethans,  after  the  name  of  the  Queen  in 
whose  reign  they  lived  and  wrote.  And  to  those  of  us  who 
know  even  a  very  little  of  the  time,  the  word  calls  up  a 
brilliant  vision.  Great  names  come  crowding  to  our  minds, 
names  of  poets,  dramatists,  historians,  philosophers, 
divines.  It  would  be  impossible  to  tell  of  all  in  this  book, 
so  we  must  choose  the  greatest  from  the  noble  array.  And 
foremost  among  them  comes  Edmund   Spenser,  for   "the 

247 


248  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

glory  of  the  new  literature  broke  in  England  with  Edmund 
Spenser."  ^ 

If  we  could  stand  aside,  as  it  were,  and  take  a  wide  view 
of  all  our  early  literature,  it  would  seem  as  if  the  names  of 
Chaucer  and  Spenser  stood  out  above  all  others  like  great 
mountains.  The  others  are  valleys  between.  They  are 
pleasant  fields  in  which  to  wander,  in  which  to  gather 
flowers,  not  landmarks  for  all  the  world  like  Chaucer  and 
Spenser.  And  although  it  is  easier  and  safer  for  children 
to  wander  in  the  meadows  and  gather  meadow  flowers,  they 
still  may  look  up  to  the  mountains  and  hope  to  climb  them 
some  day. 

Edmund  Spenser  was  born  in  London  in  1552,  and  was 
the  son  of  a  poor  clothworker  or  tailor.  He  went  to  school 
at  the  Merchant  Taylors'  School,  which  had  thfen  been  newly 
founded.  That  his  father  was  very  poor  we  know,  for 
Edmund  Spenser's  name  appears  among  "certain  poor 
scholars  of  the  schools  about  London"  who  received  money 
and  clothes  from  a  fund  left  by  a  rich  man  to  help  poor 
children  at  school. 

When  he  was  about  seventeen  Edmund  went  to 
Cambridge,  receiving  for  his  journey  a  sum  of  ten  shillings 
from  the  fund  from  which  he  had  already  received  help  at 
school.  He  entered  college  as  a  sizar,  that  is,  in  return  for 
doing  the  work  of  a  servant  he  received  free  board  and 
lodging  in  his  college.  A  sizar's  life  was  not  always  a 
happy  one,  for  many  of  the  other  scholars  or  gentlemen 
commoners  looked  down  upon  them  because  of  their 
poverty.  And  this  poverty  they  could  not  hide,  for  the 
sizars  were  obliged  to  wear  a  different  cap  and  gown  from 
that  of  the  gentlemen  commoners. 

But  of  how  Spenser  fared  at  college  we  know  nothing, 
except  that  he  was  often  ill  and  that  he  made  two  lifelong 
friends.     That  he  loved  his  university,  however,  we  learn 

*J.   R.   Green,  History   of  English   People. 


THE  "SHEPHERD'S  CALENDAR"    249 

from  his  poems,  when  he  tenderly  speaks  of  "my  mother 
Cambridge."  ^  When  he  left  college  Spenser  was  twenty- 
three.  He  was  poor  and,  it  would  seem,  ill,  so  he  did  not 
return  to  London,  but  went  to  live  with  relatives  in  the 
country  in  Lancashire.  And  there  about  "the  wasteful 
woods  and  forest  wide"  ^  he  wandered,  gathering  new  life 
and  strength,  taking  all  a  poet's  joy  in  the  beauty  and  the 
freedom  of  a  country  life,  "for  ylike  to  me  was  liberty  and 
life,"  ^  he  saj^s.  And  here  among  the  pleasant  woods  he 
met  a  fair  lady  named  Rosalind,  "the  widow's  daughter  of 
the  glen."  ^ 

Who  Rosalind  really  was  no  one  knows.  She  would 
never  have  been  heard  of  had  not  Spenser  taken  her  for  his 
lady  and  made  songs  to  her.  Spenser's  love  for  Rosalind 
was,  however,  more  real  than  the  fashionable  poet's 
passion.  He  truly  loved  Rosalind,  but  she  did  not  love 
him,  and  she  soon  married  some  one  else.  Then  all  his  joy 
in  the  summer  and  the  sunshine  was  made  dark. 

"Thus  is  my  summer  worn  away  and  wasted, 
Thus  is  my  harvest  hastened  all  to  rathe;  ^ 
The  ear  that  budded  fair  is  burnt  and  blasted. 
And  all  my  hoped  gain  is  turned  to  scathe: 
Of  all  the  seed,  that  in  my  youth  was  sown, 
Was  naught  but  brakes  and  brambles  to  be  mown."  ^ 

At  twenty-four  life  seemed  ended,  for  "Love  is  a  cure- 
less sorrow."  ^ 

"Winter  is  come,  that  blows  the  baleful  breath, 
And  after  Winter  cometh  timely  death."  ^ 

And  now,  when  he  was  feeling  miserable,  lonely,  desolate 
an  old  college  friend  wrote  to  him  begging  him  to  come  to 
London.    Spenser  went,  and  through  his  friend  he  came  to 

^  Faery  Queen,  book  iv.  canto  xi.  ^  Shepherd's  Calendar,  December. 

'  The  same,  December.  *  The  same,  April. 

*  Early.  *  Shepherd's  Calendar,  December. 

'  The  same,  August.  *  The  same,  December. 


250  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

know  Sir  Philip  Sidney,  a  true  gentleman  and  a  poet  like 
himself,  who  in  turn  made  him  known  to  the  great  Earl  of 
Leicester,  Elizabeth's  favorite. 

Spenser  thought  his  heart  had  been  broken  and  that  his 
life  was  done.  But  hearts  do  not  break  easily.  Life  is 
not  done  at  twenty-four.  After  a  time  Spenser  found  that 
there  was  still  much  to  live  for.  The  great  Earl  became 
the  poet's  friend  and  patron,  and  gave  him  a  post  as 
secretary  in  his  house.  For  in  those  days  no  man  could 
live  by  writing  alone.  Poetry  was  still  a  graceful  toy  for 
the  rich.  If  a  poor  man  wished  to  toy  with  it,  he  must 
either  starve  or  find  a  rich  friend  to  be  his  patron,  to  give 
him  work  to  do  that  would  leave  him  time  to  Avrite  also. 
Such  a  friend  Spenser  found  in  Leicester.  In  the  Earl's 
house  the  poor  tailor's  son  met  many  of  the  greatest  men 
of  the  court  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  On  the  Earl's  business 
he  went  to  Ireland  and  to  the  Continent,  seeing  new  sights, 
meeting  the  men  and  women  of  the  great  world,  so  that  a 
new  and  brilliant  life  seemed  opening  for  him. 

Yet  when,  a  few  years  later,  Spenser  published  his  first 
great  poem,  it  did  not  tell  of  courts  or  courtiers,  but  of 
simple  country  sights  and  sounds.  This  book  is  called  the 
Shepherd's  Calendar,  as  it  contains  twelve  poems,  one  for 
every  month  of  the  year. 

In  it  Spenser  sings  of  his  fair  lost  lady  Rosalind,  and  he 
himself  appears  under  the  name  of  Colin  Clout.  The  name 
is  taken,  as  you  will  remember,  from  John  Skelton's  poem. 

Spenser  called  his  poems  Eclogues,  from  a  Greek  word 
meaning  Goatherds'  Tales,  "Though  indeed  few  goat- 
herds have  to  do  herein."  He  dedicated  them  to  Sir  Philip 
Sidney  as  "the  president  of  noblesse  and  of  chivalrie." 

"Go,  little  book:    Thy  self  present, 
As  child  whose  parent  is  unkent. 
To  him  that  is  the  president 
Of  Noblesse  and  of  Chivalrie; 


THE  "SHEPHERD'S  CALENDAR"    251 

And  if  that  Envy  bark  at  thee. 
As  sure  it  will,  for  succour  flee 
Under  the  shadow  of  his  wing; 
And,  asked  who  thee  forth  did  bring; 
A  shepherd's  swain,  say,  did  thee  sing. 
All  as  his  straying  flock  he  fed; 
And  when  his  honour  hath  thee  read 
Crave  pardon  for  my  hardyhood. 
But,  if  that  any  ask  thy  name. 
Say,  'thou  wert  basebegot  with  blame/ 
For  thy  thereof  thou  takest  shame. 
And,  when  thou  art  past  jeopardy. 
Come  tell  me  what  was  said  of  mee. 
And  I  will  send  more  after  thee." 

The  Shepherd's  Calendar  made  the  new  poet  famous. 
Spenser  was  advanced  at  court,  and  soon  after  went  to 
Ireland  in  the  train  of  the  Lord-Deputy  as  Secretary  of 
State.  At  that  time  Ireland  was  filled  with  storm  and 
anger,  with  revolt  against  English  rule,  with  strife  among 
the  Irish  nobles  themselves.  Spain  also  was  eagerly 
looking  to  Ireland  as  a  point  from  which  to  strike  at 
England.  War,  misery,  poverty  were  abroad  in  all  the 
land.  Yet  amid  the  horrid  sights  and  sounds  of  battle 
Spenser  found  time  to  write. 

After  eight  years  spent  in  the  north  of  Ireland,  Spenser 
was  given  a  post  which  took  him  south.  His  new  home 
was  the  old  castle  of  Kilcolman  in  Cork.  It  was  sur- 
rounded by  fair  wooded  country,  but  to  Spenser  it  seemed 
a  desert.  He  had  gone  to  Ireland  as  to  exile,  hoping  that 
it  was  merely  a  stepping-stone  to  some  great  appointment 
in  England,  whither  he  longed  to  return.  Now  after  eight 
years  he  found  himself  still  in  exile.  He  had  no  love  for 
Ireland,  and  felt  himself  lonely  and  forsaken  there.  But 
soon  there  came  another  great  Elizabethan  to  share  his 
loneliness.  This  was  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  who,  being  out  of 
favor  with  his  Queen,  took  refuge  in  his  Irish  estates  until 
her  anger  should  pass. 


252  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  two  great  men,  thus  alone  among  the  wild  Irish, 
made  friends,  and  they  had  many  a  talk  together.  There 
within  the  gray  stone  walls  of  the  old  ivy-covered  castle 
Spenser  read  the  first  part  of  his  book,  the  Faery  Queen,  to 
Raleigh.  Spenser  had  long  been  at  work  upon  this  great 
poem.  It  was  divided  into  parts,  and  each  part  was 
called  a  book.  Three  books  were  now  finished,  and 
Raleigh,  loud  in  his  praises  of  them,  persuaded  the 
poet  to  bring  them  over  to  England  to  have  them  pub- 
lished. 

In  a  poem  called  Colin  Cloufs  come  home  again,  which 
Spenser  wrote  a  few  years  later,  he  tells  in  his  own  poetic 
way  of  these  meetings  and  talks,  and  of  how  Raleigh 
persuaded  him  to  go  to  England,  there  to  publish  his  poem. 
In  Colin  Clout  Spenser  calls  both  himself  and  Raleigh 
shepherds.  For  just  as  at  one  time  it  was  the  fashion  to 
write  poems  in  the  form  of  a  dream,  so  in  Spenser's  day  it 
was  the  fashion  to  write  poems  called  pastorals,  in  which 
the  authors  made  believe  that  all  their  characters  were 
shepherds  and  shepherdesses. 

"One  day,  quothe  he,   I   sat   (as  was  my  trade) 
Under  the  foot  of  Mole,  that  mountain  hoare. 
Keeping  my  sheep  amongst  the  cooly  shade. 
Of  the  green  alders  by  the  Mulla's  ^  shore: 
There  a  strange  shepherd  chanst  to  find  me  out. 
Whether  allured  by  my  pipe's  delight, 
Whose  pleasing  sound  y-shrilled  far  about. 
Or  thither  led  by  chance,  I  know  not  right: 
Whom  when  I  asked  from  what  place  he  came. 
And  how  he  hight,  himself  he  did  y-clep. 
The  Shepherd  of  the  Ocean  by  name. 
And  said  he  came  far  from  the  main  sea  deep. 
He  sitting  me  beside  in  that  same  shade, 
Provoked  me  to  play  some  pleasant  fit;  ^ 
And,  when  he  heard  the  music  that  I  made, 
He  found  himself  full  greatly  pleased  at  it." 

*  River  Awbeg.  *  Strain. 


'SPENSER    REAP   THE    FIRST   PART   OF   HIS    BOOK,     -THE    FAERV   QUEEN- 
TO    RALEIGH.' 


THE  "SHEPHERD'S  CALENDAR"    253 

Spenser  tells  then  how  the  "other  shepherd"  sang: — ■ 

"His  song  was  all  a  lamentable  lay. 
Of  great  unkindness,  and  of  usage  hard, 
Of  Cynthia,  the  Lady  of  the  Sea, 
That  from  her  presence  faultless  him  debarred. 

When  thus  our  pipes  we  both  had  wearied  well. 

And  each  an  end  of  singing  made. 

He  gan  to  cast  great  liking  to  my  lore. 

And  great  disliking  to  my  luckless  lot, 

That  banished  had  myself,  like  wight  forlore, 

Into  that  waste,  where  I  was  quite  forgot: 

The  which  to  leave  henceforth  he  counselled  me. 

Unmeet  for  man  in  whom  was  ought  regardful. 

And  wend  with  him  his  Cynthia  to  see, 

Whose  grace  was  great,  and  bounty  most  rewardful. 

So  what  with  hope  of  good,  and  hate  of  ill 
He  me  persuaded  forth  with  him  to  fare." 

Queen  Elizabeth  received  Spenser  kindly,  and  was  so 
delighted  with  the  Faery  Queen  that  she  ordered  Lord 
Burleigh  to  pay  the  poet  £100  a  year. 

"What!"  grumbled  the  Lord  Treasurer,  "it  is  not  in 
reason.     So  much  for  a  mere  song!" 

"Then  give  him,"  said  the  Queen,  "what  is  reason,"  to 
which  he  consented. 

But,  says  an  old  writer,  "he  was  so  busied,  belike  about 
matters  of  higher  concernment,  that  Spenser  received  no 
reward."  ^  In  the  long-run,  however,  he  did  receive  =£50 
a  year,  as  much  as  £400  would  be  now.  But  it  did  not 
seem  to  Spenser  to  be  enough  to  allow  him  to  give  up  his 
post  in  Ireland  and  live  in  England.  So  back  to  Ireland 
he  went  once  more,  with  a  grudge  in  his  heart  against  Lord 
Burleigh. 

*  Thomas  Fuller. 


CHAPTER  XLII 

SPENSER— THE  "FAERY  QUEEN" 

Spenser's  plan  for  the  Faery  Queen  was  a  very  great  one. 
He  meant  to  write  a  poem  in  twelve  books,  each  book 
containing  the  adventures  of  a  knight  who  was  to  show 
forth  one  virtue.  And  if  these  were  well  received  he 
purposed  to  write  twelve  more.  Only  the  first  three  books 
were  as  yet  published,  but  they  made  him  far  more  famous 
than  the  Shepherd's  Calendar  had  done.  For  never  since 
Chaucer  had  such  poetry  been  written.  In  the  Faery 
Queefi  Spenser  has,  as  he  says,  changed  his  "oaten  reed" 
for  "trumpets  stern,"  and  sings  no  longer  now  of  shepherds 
and  their  loves,  but  of  "knights  and  ladies  gentle  deeds"  of 
"fierce  wars  and  faithful  loves." 

The  first  three  books  tell  the  adventures  of  the  Red 
Cross  Knight  St.  George,  or  Holiness;  of  Sir  Guyon,  or 
Temperance;  and  of  the  Lady  Britomartis,  or  Chastity. 
The  whole  poem  is  an  allegory.  Everywhere  we  are  meant 
to  see  a  hidden  meaning.  But  sometimes  the  allegory  is 
very  confused  and  hard  to  follow.  So  at  first,  in  any  case, 
it  is  best  to  enjoy  the  story  and  the  beautiful  poetry,  and 
not  trouble  about  the  second  meaning.  Spenser  plunges 
us  at  once  into  the  very  middle  of  the  story.     He  begins; 

"A  gentle  Knight  was  pricking  on  the  plain, 
Yclad  in  mighty  arms  and  silver  shield, 
Wherein  old  dints  of  deep  wounds  did  remain. 
The  cruel  marks  of  many  a  bloody  field; 
Yet  arms  till  that  time  did  he  never  wield. 
His  angry  steed  did  chide  his  foaming  bit. 
As  much  disdaining  to  the  curb  to  yield: 
254 


THE  "FAERY  QUEEN"  255 

Full  jolly  knight  he  seem'd,  and  fair  did  sit, 

As  one  for  knightly  jousts  and  fierce  encounters  fit. 

But  on  his  breast  a  bloody  cross  he  bore, 

The  dear  remembrance  of  his  dying  Lord, 

For  whose  sweet  sake  that  glorious  badge  he  wore. 

And  dead  as  living  ever  him  ador'd; 

Upon  his  shield  the  like  was  also  scor'd." 

And  by  the  side  of  this  Knight  rode  a  lovely  Lady  upon 
a  snow-white  ass.  Her  dress,  too,  was  snow-white,  but  over 
it  she  wore  a  black  cloak,  "as  one  that  inly  mourned,"  and 
it  "seemed  in  her  heart  some  hidden  care  she  had." 

So  the  stor}^  begins;  but  why  these  two,  the  grave  and 
gallant  Knight  and  the  sad  and  lovely  Lady,  are  riding 
forth  together  we  should  not  know  until  the  middle  of  the 
seventh  canto,  were  it  not  for  a  letter  which  Spenser  wrote 
to  Raleigh  and  printed  in  the  beginning  of  his  book.  In  it 
he  tells  us  not  only  who  these  two  are,  but  also  his  whole 
great  design.  He  writes  this  letter,  he  says,  "knowing  how 
doubtfully  all  allegories  may  be  construed,"  and  this  book 
of  his  "being  a  continued  allegory,  or  dark  conceit,"  he 
thought  it  good  to  explain.  Having  told  how  he  means  to 
write  of  twenty-four  knights  who  shall  represent  twenty- 
four  virtues,  he  goes  on  to  tell  us  that  the  Faery  Queen 
kept  her  yearly  feast  twelve  days,  upon  which  twelve  days 
the  occasions  of  the  first  twelve  adventures  happened, 
which,  being  undertaken  by  twelve  knights,  are  told  of  in 
these   twelve   books. 

The  first  was  this.  At  the  beginning  of  the  feast  a  tall, 
clownish  young  man  knelt  before  the  Queen  of  the  Fairies 
asking  as  a  boon  that  to  him  might  be  given  the  first 
adventure  that  might  befall.  "That  being  gi-anted  he 
rested  him  on  the  floor,  unfit  through  his  rusticity  for  a 
better  place. 

"Soon  after  entered  a  fair  Lady  in  mourning  weeds, 
riding  on  a  white  ass  with  a  Dwarf  behind  her  leading 


256  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

a  warlike  steed,  that  bore  the  arms  of  a  knight,  and  his 
spear    in   the    Dwarf's    hand. 

"She,  falhng  before  the  Queen  of  Fairies,  complained 
that  her  Father  and  JNIother,  an  ancient  King  and  Queen, 
had  been  by  a  huge  Dragon  many  years  shut  up  in  a  brasen 
Castle,  who  thence  suffered  them  not  to  issue."  And 
therefore  she  prayed  the  Fairy  Queen  to  give  her  a  knight 
who   would    slay    the   Dragon. 

Then  the  "clownish  person"  started  up  and  demanded 
the  adventure.  The  Queen  was  astonished,  the  maid  un- 
willing, yet  he  begged  so  hard  that  the  Queen  consented. 
The  Lady,  however,  told  him  that  unless  the  armor  she 
had  brought  would  serve  him  he  could  not  succeed.  But 
when  he  put  the  armor  on  "he  seemed  the  goodliest  man 
in  all  that  company,  and  was  well  liked  of  that  Lady.  And 
eftsoons  taking  on  him  knighthood,  and  mounting  on  that 
strange  courser,  he  went  forth  with  her  on  that  adventure, 
where   beginneth   the   first  book,   viz.: 

"  'A  gentle  Knight  was  pricking  on  the  plain/  etc." 

The  story  goes  on  to  tell  how  the  Knight,  who  is  the  Red 
Cross  Knight  St.  George,  and  the  Lady,  who  is  called  Una, 
rode  on  followed  by  the  Dwarf.  At  length  in  the  wide 
forest  they  lost  their  way  and  came  upon  the  lair  of  a 
terrible  She-Dragon.  "Fly,  fly,"  quoth  then  the  fearful 
Dwarf,  "this  is  no  place  for  living  men." 

"But  full  of  fire  and  greedy  hardiment, 
The  youthful  Knight  could  not  for  ought  be  stayed; 
But  forth  unto  the  darksome  hole  he  went. 
And  looked  in:  his  glistering  armour  made 
A  little  glooming  light,  much  like  a  shade. 
By  which  he  saw  the  ugly  monster  plain. 
Half  like  a  serpent  horribly  displayed, 
But  th'other  half  did  woman's  shape  retain, 
Most  loathsome,  filthy,  foul,  and  full  of  vile  disdain." 

There  was  a  fearful  fight  between  the  Knight  and  the 


THE  "FAERY  QUEEN"  257 

Dragon,  whose  name  is  Error,  but  at  length  the  Knight 
conquered.  The  terrible  beast  lay  dead  "reft  of  her  baleful 
head,"  and  the  Knight,  mounting  upon  his  charger,  once 
more  rode  onwards  with  his  Lady. 

"At  length  they  chanced  to  meet  upon  the  way 
An  aged  sire,  in  long  black  weeds  yclad. 
His  feet  all  bare,  his  beard  all  hoary  grey. 
And  by  his  belt  his  book  he  hanging  had. 
Sober  he  seemed,  and  very  sagely  sad. 
And  to  the  ground  his  eyes  were  lowly  bent. 
Simple  in  show,  and  void  of  malice  bad. 
And  all  the  way  he  prayed,  as  he  went. 
And  often  knocked  his  breast,  as  one  that  did  repent." 

The  Knight  and  this  aged  man  greeted  each  other 
fair  and  courteously,  and  as  evening  was  now  fallen  the 
godly  father  bade  the  travelers  come  to  his  Hermitage 
for  the  night.  This  the  Knight  and  Lady  gladly  did, 
and  soon  were  peacefully  sleeping  beneath  the  humble 
roof. 

But  the  seeming  godly  father  was  a  wicked  magician. 
While  his  guests  slept  he  wove  evil  spells  about  them,  and 
calling  a  wicked  dream  he  bade  it  sit  at  the  Knight's  head 
and  whisper  lies  to  him.  This  the  wicked  dream  did  till 
that  it  made  the  Knight  believe  his  Lady  to  be  bad  and 
false.  Then  early  in  the  morning  the  Red  Cross  Knight 
rose  and,  believing  his  Lady  to  be  unworthy,  he  rode  sadly 
away,  leaving  her  alone. 

Soon,  as  he  rode  along,  he  met  a  Saracen  whose  name 
was  Sansfoy,  or  without  faith,  "full  large  of  limb  and  every 
joint  he  was,  and  cared  not  for  God  or  man  a  point." 

"He  had  a  fair  companion  of  his  way, 
A  goodly  Lady  clad  in  scarlet  red, 
Purfled  with  gold  and  pearl  of  rich  assay. 
And  like  a  Persian  mitre  on  her  head 
She  wore,  with  crowns  and  riches  garnished. 


258  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  which  her  lavish  lovers  to  her  gave; 

Her  wanton  palfrey  all  was  overspread 

With  tinsell  trappings^  woven  like  a  wave. 

Whose  bridle  rang  with  golden  bells  and  bosses  brave." 

The  Red  Cross  Knight  fought  and  conquered  Sansfoy. 
Then  he  rode  onward  with  the  dead  giant's  companion,  the 
lady  Duessa,  whom  he  believed  to  be  good  because  he  was 
"too  simple  and  too  true"  to  know  her  wicked. 

IMeanwhile  Una,  forsaken  and  woeful,  wandered  far  and 
wide  seeking  her  lost  Knight.  But  nowhere  could  she  hear 
tidings  of  him.  At  length  one  day,  weary  of  her  quest,  she 
got  off  her  ass  and  lay  down  to  rest  in  the  thick  wood,  where 
"her  angel's  face  made  a  sunshine  in  the  shady  place." 

Then  out  of  the  thickest  of  the  wood  a  ramping  lion 
rushed   suddenly. 

"It  fortuned  out  of  the  thickest  wood 
A  ramping  Lion  rushed  suddenly, 
Hunting  full  greedy  after  savage  blood. 
Soon  as  the  royal  virgin  he  did  spy. 
With  gaping  mouth  at  her  ran  greedily 
To  have  at  once  devoured  her  tender  corse." 

But  as  he  came  near  the  sleeping  Lady  the  Lion's  rage 
suddenly  melted.  Instead  of  killing  Una,  he  licked  her 
weary  feet  and  white  hands  with  fawning  tongue.  From 
being  her  eneni}^  he  became  her  guardian.  And  so  for 
many  a  day  the  Lion  stayed  with  Una,  guarding  her  from 
all  harm.  But  in  her  wanderings  she  at  length  met  with 
Sansloy,  the  brother  of  Sansfoy,  who  killed  the  Lion  and 
carried  Una  off  into  the  darksome  wood. 

But  here  in  her  direst  need  Una  found  new  friends  in  a 
troupe  of  fauns  and  satyrs  who  were  playing  in  the  forest. 

"\^^iom  when  the  raging  Saracen  espied, 
A  rude,  misshapen,  monstrous   rabblement. 
Whose  like  he  never  saw,  he  durst  not  bide, 
But  got  his  ready  steed,  and  fast  away  gan  ride." 


THE     FAERY  QUEEN"  259 

Then  the  fauns  and  satyrs  gathered  round  the  Lady, 
wondering  at  her  beauty,  pitying  her  "fair  blubbered  face." 

But  Una  shook  with  fear.  These  ten-ible  shapes,  half 
goat,  half  human,  struck  her  dumb  with  horror:  "Ne 
word  to  speak,  ne  joint  to  move  she  had." 

"The  savage  nation  feel  her  secret  smart 
And  read  her  sorrow  in  her  count'nance  sad; 
Their  frowning  foreheads  with  rough  horns  yclad, 
And  rustic  horror  all  aside  do  lay. 
And  gently  grinning  shew  a  semblance  glad 
To  comfort  her,  and  fear  to  put  away," 

They  kneel  upon  the  ground,  they  kiss  her  feet,  and  at 
last,  sure  that  they  mean  her  no  harm,  Una  rises  and  goes 
with  them. 

Rejoicing,  singing  songs,  honoring  her  as  their  Queen, 
waving  branches,  scattering  flowers  beneath  her  feet,  they 
lead  her  to  their  chief  Sylvanus.  He,  too,  receives  her 
kindly,  and  in  the  wood  she  lives  with  these  wild  creatures 
until  there  she  finds  a  new  knight  named  Satyrane,  with 
whom  she  once  more  sets  forth  to  seek  the  Red  Cross 
Knight. 

Meanwhile  Duessa  had  led  the  Red  Cross  Knight  to  the 
house  of  Pride. 

"A  stately  Palace  built  of  squared  brick. 
Which  cunningly  was  without  mortar  laid, 
Whose  walls  were  high^  but  nothing  strong,  nor  thick. 
And  golden  foil  all  over  them  displayed. 
That  purest  sky  with  brightness  they  dismayed. 
High  lifted  up  were  many  lofty  towers 
And  goodly  galleries  far  overlaid, 
Full  of  fair  windows,  and  delightful   bowers. 
And  on  the  top  a  dial  told  the  timely  hours. 

It  was  a  goodly  heap  for  to  behold. 
And  spake  the  praises  of  the  workman's  wit. 
But  full  great  pity,  that  so  fair  a  mould 
Did  on  so  weak  foundation  ever  sit; 


260  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

For  on  a  sandy  hill,  that  still  did  flit, 
And  fall  away,  it  mounted  was  full  high. 
And  every  breath  of  heaven  shaked  it; 
And  all  the  hinder  parts,  that  few  could  spy. 
Were  ruinous  and  old,  but  painted  cunningly," 

Here  the  Knight  met  Sans  joy,  the  third  of  the  Saracen 
brothers,   and   another   fearful   fight   took   place. 

"The  Saracen  was  stout,  and  wondrous  strong. 
And  heaped  blows  like  iron  hammers  great: 
For  after  blood  and  vengeance  he  did  long. 
The  Knight  was  fierce,  and  full  of  youthly  heat. 
And  doubled  strokes  like  dreaded  thunder's  threat. 
For  all  for  praise  and  honour  he  did  fight. 
Both  striken  strike,  and  beaten  both  do  beat 
That  from  their  shields  forth  flyeth  fiery  light. 
And  helmets  hewen  deep,  show  marks  of  cither's  might." 

At  last  a  charmed  cloud  hid  the  Saracen  from  the 
Knight's  sight.  So  the  fight  ended,  and  the  Knight,  sorely 
wounded,  was  "laid  in  sumptuous  bed,  where  many  skilful 
leeches  him  abide." 

But  as  he  lay  there  weak  and  ill  the  Dwarf  came  to 
warn  him,  for  he  had  spied 

"Where,  in  a  dungeon  deep,  huge  numbers  lay 
Of  caitiff  wretched  thralls,  that  wailed  night  and  day, 

m  0 

Whose  case  when  as  the  careful  Dwarf  had  told, 

And  made  ensample  of  their  mournful  sight 

Unto  his  master,  he  no  longer  would 

There  dwell  in  jDeril  of  like  painful  plight. 

But  early  rose,  and  ere  that  dawning  light 

Discovered  had  the  world  to  heaven  wide. 

He  by  a  privy  postern  took  his  flight. 

That  of  no  envious  eyes  he  might  be  spied. 

For  doubtless  death  ensued,  if  any  him  descried.'* 

When  the  false  Duessa  discovered  that  the  Red  Cross 
Knight  had  fled,  she  followed  him  and  found  him  resting 
beside  a  fountain.     Not  knowing  that  the  water  was  en- 


THE  "FAERY  QUEEN"  261 

chanted,  he  drank  of  it,  and  at  once  all  his  manly  strength 
ebbed  away,  and  he  became  faint  and  feeble.  Then,  when 
he  was  too  weak  to  hold  a  sword  or  spear,  he  saw  a  fearful 
sight : — 

"With  sturdy  steps  came  stalking  in  his  sight. 
An  hideous  Giant  horrible  and  high. 
That  with  his  tallness  seemed  to  threat  the  sky. 
The  ground  eke  groaned  under  him  for  dread; 
His  living  like  saw  never  living  eye, 
Nor  durst  behold;  his  stature  did  exceed 
The  height  of  three  the  tallest  sons  of  mortal  seed.  " 

Towards  the  Knight,  so  weak  that  he  could  scarcely 
hold  his  sword,  this  Giant  came  stalking.  Weak  as  he  was, 
the  Knight  made  ready  to  fight.     But 

"The  Giant  strake  so  mainly  merciless. 
That  could  have  overthrown  a  stony  tower; 
And  were  not  heavenly  grace  that  did  him  bless. 
He  had  been  powdered  all  as  thin  as  flour." 

As  the  Giant  struck  at  him,  the  Knight  leapt  aside  and 
the  blow  fell  harmless.  But  so  mighty  was  it  that  the  wind 
of  it  threw  him  to  the  ground,  where  he  lay  senseless.  And 
ere  he  woke  out  of  his  swoon  the  Giant  took  him  up,  and 

"Him  to  his  castle  brought  with  hasty  force 
And  in  a  dungeon  deep  him  threw  without;  remorse." 

Duessa  then  became  the  Giant's  lady.  "He  gave  her 
gold  and  purple  pall  to  wear,"  and  set  a  triple  crown  upon 
her  head.  For  steed  he  gave  her  a  fearsome  dragon  with 
fiery  eyes  and  seven  heads,  so  that  all  who  saw  her  went 
in  dread  and  awe. 

The  Dwarf,  seeing  his  master  thus  overthrown  and  made 
prisoner,  gathered  his  armor  and  set  forth  to  tell  his  evil 
tidings  and  find  help.  He  had  not  gone  far  before  he  met 
the  Lady  Una.  To  her  he  told  his  sad  news,  and  she  with 
grief  in  her  heart  turned  with  him  to  find  the  dark  dungeon 


262  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

in  which  her  Knight  lay.  On  her  way  she  met  another 
knight.  This  was  Prince  Arthur.  And  he,  learning  of 
her  sorrow,  went  with  her  promising  aid.  Guided  by  the 
Dwarf  they  reached  the  castle  of  the  Giant,  and  here  a 
fearful  fight  took  place  in  which  Prince  Arthur  conquered 
Duessa's  Dragon  and  killed  the  Giant.  Then  he  entered 
the  castle, 

"Where  living  creature  none  he  did  espy. 
Then  gan  he  loudly  through  the  house  to  call; 
But  no  man  eared  to  answer  to  his  cry; 
There  reigned  a  solemn  silence  over  all, 
Nor  voice  was  heard,  nor  wight  was  seen  in  bower  or  hall. 

At  last,  with  creeping  crooked  pace  forth  came 

An  old,  old  man  with  beard  as  white  as  snow; 

That  on  a  staff  his  feeble  steps  did  frame. 

And  guide  his  weary  gate  both  to  and  fro^ 

For  his  eyesight  him  failed  long  ago; 

And  on  his  arm  a  bunch  of  keys  he  bore. 

The  which  unused  rust  did  overgrow; 

Those  were  the  keys  of  every  inner  door. 

But  he  could  not  them  use,  but  kept  them  still  in  store." 

And  what  was  strange  and  terrible  about  this  old  man 
was  that  his  head  was  twisted  upon  his  shoulders,  so 
that  although  he  walked  towards  the  knight  his  face 
looked  backward. 

Seeing  his  gray  hairs  and  venerable  look  Prince  Arthur 
asked  him  gently  where  all  the  folk  of  the  castle  were. 

"I  cannot  tell,"  answered  the  old  man.  And  to  every 
question  he  replied,  "I  cannot  tell,"  until  the  knight, 
impatient  of  delay,  seized  the  keys  from  his  arm.  Door 
after  door  the  Prince  Ai'thur  opened,  seeing  many  strange, 
sad  sights.    But  nowhere  could  he  find  the  captive  Knight. 

"At  last  he  came  unto  an  iron  door. 
That  fast  was  locked,  but  key  found  not  at  all. 
Amongst  that  bunch  to  open  it  withal." 

But  there  was  a  little  grating  in  the  door  through  which 


THE  "FAERY  QUEEN"  263 

iPrince  Arthur  called.  A  hollow,  dreary,  murmuring  voice 
replied.  It  was  the  voice  of  the  Red  Cross  Knight,  which, 
when  the  champion  heard,  "with  furious  force  and  indigna- 
tion fell"  he  rent  that  iron  door  and  entered  in. 

Once  more  the  Red  Cross  Knight  was  free  and  reunited 
to  his  Lady,  while  the  false  Duessa  was  unmasked  and 
shown  to  be  a  bad  old  witch,  who  fled  away  "to  the  waste- 
ful wilderness  apace." 

But  the  Red  Cross  Knight  was  still  so  weak  and  feeble 
that  Despair  almost  persuaded  him  to  kill  himself.  Seeing 
this,  Una  led  him  to  the  house  of  Holiness,  where  he  stayed 
until  once  more  he  was  strong  and  well.  Here  he  learned 
that  he  was  St.  George.     "Thou,"  he  is  told, 

"Shalt  be  a  saint,  and  thine  o^vn  nation's  friend 
And  patron.  Thou  St.  George  shalt  called  be, 
St.  George  of  merry  England,  the  sign  of  victory." 

Once  more  strong  of  arm,  full  of  new  courage,  the 
Knight  set  forth  with  Una,  and  soon  they  reached  her  home, 
where  the  dreadful  Dragon  raged. 

Here  the  most  fierce  fight  of  all  takes  place.  Three 
days  it  is  renewed,  and  on  the  third  day  the  Dragon  is 
conquered. 

"So  down  he  fell,  and  forth  his  life  did  breathe 
That  vanished  into  smoke  and  clouds  swift; 
So  down  he  fell,  that  th'  earth  him  underneath 
Did  groan,  as  feeble  so  great  load  to  lift; 
So  down  he  fell,  as  an  huge  rocky  clift 
Whose  false  foundation  waves  have  washed  away, 
With  dreadful  poise  is  from  the  mainland  rift 
And  rolling  down,  great  Neptune  doth  dismay. 
So  down  he  fell,  and  like  an  heaped  mountain  lay." 

Thus  all  ends  happily.  The  aged  King  and  Queen  are 
rescued  from  the  brazen  tower  in  which  the  Dragon  had 
imprisoned  them,  and  Una  and  the  Knight  are  married. 

That  is  the  story  of  the  first  book  of  the  Faery  Queen. 


264  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

In  it  Spenser  has  made  great  use  of  the  legend  of  St. 
George  and  the  Dragon.  The  Red  Cross  of  his  Knight, 
"the  dear  remembrance  of  his  dying  Lord,"  was  in  those 
days  the  flag  of  England,  and  is  still  the  Red  Cross  of  our 
Union  Jack.  And  besides  the  allegory  the  poem  has  some- 
thing of  history  in  it.  The  great  people  of  Spenser's  day 
play  their  parts  there.  Thus  Duessa,  sad  to  say,  is  meant 
to  be  the  fair,  unhappy  Queen  of  Scots,  the  wicked  magi- 
cian is  the  Pope,  and  so  on.  But  we  need  scarcely  trouble 
about  all  that.  I  repeat  that  meantime  it  is  enough  for 
you  to  enjoy  the  story  and  the  poetry. 


CHAPTER  XLIII 

SPENSER— HIS   LAST   DAYS 

There  are  so  many  books  now  published  which  tell  the 
stories  of  the  Faery  Queen,  and  tell  them  well,  that  you 
may  think  I  hardly  need  have  told  one  here.  But  few 
of  these  books  give  the  poet's  own  words,  and  I  have  told 
the  story  here  giving  quotations  from  the  poem  in  the  hope 
that  you  will  read  them  and  learn  from  them  to  love 
Spenser's  own  words.  I  hope  that  long  after  you  have 
forgotten  my  words  you  will  remember  Spenser's,  that  they 
will  remain  in  your  mind  as  glowing  word-pictures,  and 
make  you  anxious  to  read  more  of  the  poem  from  which 
they  are  taken. 

Spenser  has  been  called  the  poet's  poet,^  he  might  also 
be  called  the  painter's  poet,  for  on  every  page  almost  we 
find  a  word-picture,  rich  in  color,  rich  in  detail.  Each 
person  as  he  comes  upon  the  scene  is  described  for  us  so 
that  we  may  see  him  with  our  mind's  eye.  The  whole 
poem  blazes  with  color,  it  glows  and  gleams  with  the 
glamor  of  fairyland.  Spenser  more  than  any  other  poet 
has  the  old  Celtic  love  of  beauty,  yet  so  far  as  we  know 
there  was  in  him  no  drop  of  Celtic  blood.  He  loved  neither 
the  Irishman  nor  Ireland.  To  him  his  life  there  was  an 
exile,  yet  perhaps  even  in  spite  of  himself  he  breathed  in 
the  land  of  fairies  and  of  "little  people"  something  of  their 
magic:  his  fingers,  unwittingly  perhaps,  touched  the  golden 
and  ivory  gate  so  that  he  entered  in  and  saw. 

'  Charles  Lamb. 
265 


266  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

That  it  is  a  fairyland  and  no  real  world  which  Spenser 
opens  to  us  is  the  great  difference  between  Chaucer  and 
him.  Chaucer  gives  us  real  men  and  women  who  love  and 
hate,  who  sin  and  sorrow.  He  is  humorous,  he  is  coarse, 
and  he  is  real.  Spenser  has  humor  too,  but  we  seldom 
see  him  smile.  There  are,  we  may  be  glad,  few  coarse  lines 
in  Spenser,  but  he  is  artificial.  He  took  the  tone  of  his 
time — the  tone  of  pretense.  It  was  the  fashion  to  make- 
believe,  yet,  underneath  all  the  make-believe,  men  were 
still  men,  not  wholly  good  nor  wholly  bad.  But  under- 
neath the  brilliant  trappings  of  Spenser's  knights  and 
ladies,  shepherds  and  shepherdesses,  there  seldom  beats  a 
human  heart.  He  takes  us  to  dreamland,  and  when  we  lay 
down  the  book  we  wake  up  to  real  life.  Beauty  first  and 
last  is  what  holds  us  in  Spenser's  poems — beauty  of  de- 
scription, beauty  of  thought,  beauty  of  sound.  As  it  has 
been  said,  "  'A  thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  forever,'  and  that 
is  the  secret  of  the  enduring  life  of  the  Faery  QueenJ"  ^ 

Spenser  invented  for  himself  a  new  stanza  of  nine  lines 
and  made  it  famous,  so  that  we  call  it  after  him,  the 
Spenserian  Stanza.  It  was  like  Chaucer's  stanza  of  seven 
lines,  called  the  Rhyme  Royal,  with  two  lines  more  added. 

Spenser  admired  Chaucer  above  all  poets.  He  called 
him  "The  Well  of  English  undefiled,"  "  and  after  many 
hundred  years  we  still  feel  the  truth  of  the  description. 
He  uses  many  of  Chaucer's  words,  which  even  then  had 
grown  old-fashioned  and  were  little  used.  So  much  is 
this  so  that  a  glossary  written  by  a  friend  of  Spenser,  in 
which  old  words  were  explained,  was  published  with  the 
Shepherd's  Calendar.  But  whether  old  or  new,  Spenser's 
power  of  using  words  and  of  weaving  them  together  was 
wonderful. 

He   weaves   his    wonderful   words    in    such    wonderful 

'Courthorpe,  History  of  English  Poetry. 
^  Faery  Queen,  book  iv.  canto  ii. 


SPENSER'S  LAST  DAYS  267 

fashion  that  they  sound  like  what  he  describes.  Is  there 
anything  more  drowsy  than  his  description  of  the  abode  of 
sleep : 

"And  more,  to  lull  him  in  his  slumber  soft, 
A  trickling  stream  from  high  rock  tumbling  down, 
And  ever  drizzling  rain  upon  the  loft 
Mix'd  with  a  murmuring  wind,  much  like  the  sound 
Of  swarming  bees,  did  cast  him  in  a  swound,^ 
No  other  noise  nor  peoples'  troublous  cries. 
As  still  are  wont  t'  annoy  the  walled  town. 
Might  there  be  heard ;  but  careless  quiet  lies 
Wrapt  in  eternal  silence,  far  from  enemies." 

So  all  through  the  poem  we  are  enchanted  or  lulled  by 
the  glamor  of  words. 

The  Faery  Queen  made  Spenser  as  a  poet  famous,  but, 
as  we  know,  it  did  not  bring  him  enough  to  live  on  in 
England.  It  did  not  bring  him  the  fame  he  sought  nor 
make  him  great  among  the  statesmen  of  the  land.  Among 
the  courtiers  of  Queen  Elizabeth  he  counted  for  little.  So 
he  returned  to  Ireland  a  disappointed  man.  It  was  now 
he  wrote  Colin  Cloufs  come  home  again,  from  which  I  have 
already  given  you  some  quotations.  He  published  also 
another  book  of  poems  and  then  he  fell  in  love.  He  forgot 
his  beautiful  Rosalind,  who  had  been  so  hard-hearted,  and 
gave  his  love  to  another  lady  who  in  her  turn  loved  him, 
and  to  whom  he  was  happily  married.  This  lady,  too,  he 
made  famous  in  his  verse.  As  the  fashion  was,  he  wrote 
to  her  a  series  of  sonnets,  in  one  of  which  we  learn  that  her 
name  was  Elizabeth.  He  writes  to  the  three  Elizabeths, 
his  mother,  his  Queen,  and 

"The  third,  my  love,  my  life's  last  ornament. 
By  whom  my  spirit  out  of  dust  was  raised." 

But  more  famous  still  than  the  sonnets  is  the  EpitJia- 
lamion   or  wedding  hymn   which   he   wrote    in    his   lady's 

*  Swoon. 


268  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

honor,  and  which  ever  since  has  been  looked  on  as  the 
most  glorious  love-song  in  the  English  language,  so  full  is  it 
of  exultant,  worshipful  happiness. 

It  was  now,  too,  that  Spenser  wrote  Astrophel,  a  sadly 
beautiful  dirge  for  the  death  of  his  friend  and  fellow- 
poet,  Sir  Philip  Sidney.  He  gave  his  verses  as  "fittest 
flowers  to  deck  his  mournful  hearse." 

Just  before  his  marriage  Spenser  finished  three  more 
books  of  the  Faery  Queen,  and  the  following  year  he  took 
them  to  London  to  publish  them.  The  three  books  were 
on  Friendship,  on  Justice,  and  on  Courtesy.  They  were 
received  as  joyfully  as  the  first  three.  The  poet  remained 
for  nearly  a  year  in  London  still  writing  busily.  Then  he 
returned  to  Ireland.  There  he  passed  a  few  more  years, 
and  then  came  the  end. 

Ireland,  which  had  always  been  unquiet,  always  rest- 
less, under  the  oppressive  hand  of  England,  now  broke  out 
into  wild  rebellion.  The  maddened  Irish  had  no  love  or 
respect  for  the  English  poet.  Kilcolman  Castle  was  sacked 
and  burned,  and  Spenser  fled  with  his  wife  and  children 
to  Cork,  homeless  and  wellnigh  ruined.  A  little  later 
Spenser  himself  went  on  to  London,  hoping  perhaps  to 
better  his  fortunes,  and  there  in  a  Westminster  inn,  disap- 
pointed, ill,  shattered  in  hopes  and  health,  he  lay  down 
to  die. 

As  men  count  years,  he  was  still  young,  for  he  was  only 
forty-seven.  He  had  dreamed  that  he  had  still  time  before 
him  to  make  life  a  success.  For  as  men  counted  success  in 
those  days,  Spenser  was  a  failure.  He  had  failed  to  make 
a  name  among  the  statesmen  of  the  age.  He  failed  to  make 
a  fortune,  he  lived  poor  and  he  died  poor.  As  a  poet  he 
was  a  sublime  success.  He  dedicated  the  Faery  Queen  to 
Elizabeth  "to  live  with  the  eternity  of  her  fame,"  and  it  is 
not  too  much  to  believe  that  even  should  the  deeds  of 
Elizabeth  be  forgotten  the  fame  of  Spenser  will  endure. 


SPENSER'S  LAST  DAYS  269 

And  the  poets  of  Spenser's  own  day  knew  that  in  him  they 
had  lost  a  master,  and  they  mourned  for  him  as  such. 
They  buried  him  in  Westminster  not  far  from  Chaucer. 
His  bier  was  carried  by  poets,  who,  as  they  stood  beside  his 
grave,  threw  into  it  poems  in  which  they  told  of  his  glory 
and  their  own  grief.  And  so  they  left  "The  Prince  of  Poets 
in  his  tyme,  whose  divine  spirit  needs  no  other  witnesse 
than  the  workes  which  he  left  behind  him."  ^ 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Tales  from  Spenser  (Told  to  Children  Series).  Una  and  the  Red  Cross  Knight, 
by  N.  G.  Royde  Smith  (has  many  quotations).  Tales  from  the  Faerie  Queene, 
by  C.  L.  Thomson  (prose).  The  Faerie  Queene  (verse,  sixteenth  century  spelling). 
Faerie  Queene,  book  i.,  by  Professor  W.  H.  Hudson.  Complete  Works  (Globe 
Edition),  edited  by  R.  Morris.  Britomart,  edited  by  May  E.  Litchfield,  is  the 
story  of  Britomart  taken  from  scattered  portions  in  books  iii.,  iv.,  and  v.  in 
original  poetry,  spelling  modernized. 


The  first  epitaph  engraved  on  Spenser's  tomb. 


CHAPTER  XLIV 

ABOUT  THE  FIRST  THEATERS 

In  the  beginnings  of  our  literature  there  were  two  men  who, 
we  might  say,  were  the  fountain-heads.  These  were  the 
gay  minstrel  abroad  in  the  world  singing  in  hall  and 
market-place,  and  the  patient  monk  at  work  in  cell  or 
cloister.  And  as  year  by  year  our  literature  gi'ew, 
strengthened  and  broadened,  we  might  say  it  flowed  on  in 
two  streams.  It  flowed  in  two  streams  which  were  ever 
joining,  mingling,  separating  again,  for  the  monk  and  the 
minstrel  spoke  to  man  each  in  his  own  way.  The  monk 
made  his  appeal  to  the  eye  as  with  patient  care  he  copied, 
painted  and  made  his  manuscript  beautiful  with  gold  and 
colors.  The  minstrel  made  his  appeal  to  the  ear  with 
music  and  with  song.  Then  after  a  time  the  streams 
seemed  to  join,  and  the  monk  when  he  played  the  miracle- 
plays  seemed  to  be  taking  the  minstrel's  part.  Here  was 
an  appeal  both  to  eye  and  ear.  Instead  of  illuminating 
the  silent  parchment  he  made  living  pictures  illustrate 
spoken  words.  Then  followed  a  time  when  the  streams 
once  more  divided  and  church  and  stage  parted.  The 
strolling  players  and  the  trade  guilds  took  the  place  both 
of  the  minstrel  and  of  the  monkish  actors,  the  monk  went 
back  once  more  to  his  quiet  cell,  and  the  minstrel  gradually 
disappeared. 

So  year  after  year  went  on.  By  slow  degrees  times 
changed,  and  our  literature  changed  with  the  times.  But 
looking  backward  we  can  see  that  the  poet  is  the  develop- 
ment of  the  minstrel,  the  prose  writer  the  development  of 

270 


ABOUT  THE  FIRST  THEATERS  271 

the  monkish  chronicler  and  copyist.  Prose  at  first  was 
only  used  for  grave  matters,  for  history,  for  religious  works, 
for  dry  treatises  which  were  hardly  literature,  which  were 
not  meant  for  enjoyment  but  only  for  use  and  for  teaching. 
But  by  degrees  people  began  to  use  prose  for  story-telling, 
for  enjoyment.  More  and  more  prose  began  to  be  written 
for  amusement  until  at  last  it  has  quite  taken  the  place 
of  poetry.  Nowadays  many  people  are  not  at  all  fond 
of  poetry.  They  are  rather  apt  to  think  that  a  poetry 
book  is  but  dull  reading,  and  they  much  prefer  plain  prose. 
It  may  amuse  those  who  feel  like  that  to  remember  that 
hundreds  of  years  ago  it  was  just  the  other  way  round. 
Then  it  was  prose  that  was  considered  dull — hence  we 
have  the  word  prosy. 

All  poetry  was  at  first  written  to  be  sung,  sung  too 
perhaps  with  some  gesture,  so  that  the  hearers  might  the 
better  understand  the  story.  Then  by  degi-ees  poets  got 
further  and  further  away  from  that,  until  poets  like  Spenser 
wrote  with  no  such  idea.  But  while  poets  like  Spenser 
wrote  their  stories  to  be  read,  another  class  of  poets  was 
growing  up  who  intended  their  poems  to  be  spoken  and 
acted.     These  were  the  dramatists. 

So  you  see  that  the  minstrel  stream  divided  into  two. 
There  was  now  the  poet  who  wrote  his  poems  to  be 
read  in  quiet  and  the  poet  who  wrote  his,  if  not  to  be 
sung,  at  least  to  be  spoken  aloud.  But  there  had  been, 
as  we  have  seen,  a  time  when  the  minstrel  and 
the  monkish  stream  had  touched,  a  time  when  the  monk, 
using  the  minstrel's  art,  had  taught  the  people  through 
ear  and  eye  together.  For  the  idea  of  the  Miracle  and 
Morality  plays  was,  you  remember,  to  teach.  So,  long 
after  the  monks  had  ceased  to  act,  those  who  wrote  poems 
to  be  acted  felt  that  they  must  teach  something.  Thus 
after  the  ]Miracle  plays  came  the  INIoralities,  which  some- 
times were  very  long  and  dull.     They  were  followed  by 


272  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Interludes  which  were  much  the  same  as  ^loralities  but 
were  shorter,  and  as  their  name  shows  were  meant  to  come 
in  the  middle  of  something  else,  for  the  word  comes  from 
two  Latin  words,  "inter"  between  and  "Indus"  a  play.  An 
Interlude  may  have  been  first  used,  perhaps,  as  a  kind  of 
break  in  a  long  feast. 

The  JNIiracle  plays  had  only  been  acted  once  a  year, 
first  by  the  monks  and  later  by  the  trade  guilds.  But  the 
taste  for  plays  grew,  and  soon  bands  of  players  strolled 
about  the  country  acting  in  towns  and  villages.  These 
strolling  players  often  made  a  good  deal  of  money.  But 
though  the  people  crowded  willingly  to  see  and  hear,  the 
magistrates  did  not  love  these  players,  and  they  were 
looked  upon  as  little  better  than  rogues  and  vagabonds. 
Then  it  became  the  fashion  for  great  lords  to  have  their  own 
company  of  players,  and  they,  when  their  masters  did  not 
need  them,  also  traveled  about  to  the  surrounding  villages 
acting  wherever  they  went.  This  taste  for  acting  grew  strong 
in  the  people  of  England.  And  if  in  the  life  of  the  Middle 
Ages  there  was  always  room  for  story-telling,  in  the  life  of 
Tudor  England  there  was  always  room  for  acting  and  shows. 

These  shows  were  called  by  various  names.  Pageants, 
Masques,  Interludes,  Mummings  or  Disguisings,  and  on 
every  great  or  little  occasion  there  was  sure  to  be  some- 
thing of  the  sort.  If  the  King  or  Queen  went  on  a  jour- 
ney he  or  she  was  entertained  by  pageants  on  the  way. 
If  a  royal  visitor  came  to  the  court  of  England  there 
were  pageants  in  his  honor.  A  birthday,  a  christen- 
ing, a  wedding  or  a  victory  would  all  be  celebrated  by 
pageants,  and  in  these  plays  people  of  all  classes  took  part. 
School-children  acted,  University  students  acted,  the 
learned  lawyers  of  Inns  of  Court  acted,  great  lords  and 
ladies  acted,  and  even  at  times  the  King  and  Queen  them- 
selves took  part.  And  although  many  of  these  shows, 
especially  the  pageants,  were  merely  shows,  without  any 


ABOUT  THE  FIRST  THEATERS  273 

words,  many,  on  the  other  hand,  had  words.  Thus  with 
so  much  acting  and  love  of  acting  it  was  not  wonderful 
that  a  crowd  of  dramatists  sprang  up. 

Then,  too,  plays  began  to  be  divided  into  tragedies  and 
comedies.  A  tragedy  is  a  play  which  shows  the  sad  side  of 
life  and  which  has  a  mournful  ending.  The  word  really 
means  a  goat-song,  and  comes  from  two  Greek  words, 
'Hragos"  a  goat  and  ''ode"  a  song.  It  was  so  called  either 
because  the  oldest  tragedies  were  acted  while  a  goat  was 
sacrificed,  or  because  the  actors  themselves  wore  clothes 
made  of  goat-skins.  A  comedy  is  a  play  which  shows  the 
merry  side  of  life  and  has  a  happy  ending.  This  word  too 
comes  from  tw^o  Greek  words,  "komosf"  a  revel,  and  "ode" 
a  song.  The  Greek  word  for  village  is  also  "komo"  so  a 
comedy  may  at  first  have  meant  a  village  revel  or  merry- 
making. "Tragedj","  it  has  been  said,  "is  poetry  in  its 
deepest  earnest;  comedy  is  poetry  in  unlimited  jest."  ^ 
But  the  old  IMoralities  w^ere  neither  the  one  nor  the  other, 
neither  tragedy  nor  comedy.  They  did  not  touch  life 
keenly  enough  to  awaken  horror  or  pain.  They  were  often 
sad,  but  not  with  that  sadness  which  we  have  come  to  call 
tragic,  they  were  often  indeed  merely  dull,  and  although 
there  was  always  a  funny  character  to  make  laughter,  it  was 
by  no  means  unlimited  jest.  The  Interludes  came  next, 
after  the  ^Moralities,  with  a  little  more  human  interest  and 
a  little  more  fun,  and  from  them  it  was  easy  to  pass  to  real 
comedies. 

A  play  named  Ralph  Roister  Doister  is  generally  looked 
upon  as  the  first  real  English  comedy.  It  was  written  by 
Nicholas  Udall,  headmaster  first  of  Eton  and  then  of  West- 
minster, for  the  boys  of  one  or  other  school.  It  was  prob- 
ably for  those  of  Westminster  that  it  was  written,  and 
may  have  been  acted  about  1552. 

The  hero,  if  one  may  call  him  so,  who  gives  his  name  to 

*  Coleridge, 


274  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  play,  is  a  vain,  silly  swaggerer.  He  thinks  every 
woman  who  sees  him  is  in  love  with  him.  So  he  makes  up 
his  mind  to  marry  a  rich  and  beautiful  widow  named 
Christian  Custance. 

Not  being  a  very  good  scholar,  Ralph  gets  some  one  else 
to  write  a  love-letter  for  him,  but  when  he  copies  it  he  puts 
all  the  stops  in  the  wrong  places,  which  makes  the  sense 
quite  different  from  what  he  had  intended,  and  instead  of 
being  full  of  pretty  things  the  letter  is  full  of  insults. 

Dame  Custance  will  have  nothing  to  say  to  such  a 
stupid  lover,  "I  will  not  be  served  with  a  fool  in  no  wise. 
When  I  choose  a  husband  I  hope  to  take  a  man,"  she  says. 
In  revenge  for  her  scorn  Ralph  Roister  Doister  threatens  to 
burn  the  dame's  house  down,  and  sets  off  to  attack  it  with 
his  servants.  The  widow,  however,  meets  him  with  her 
handmaidens.  There  is  a  free  fight  (which,  no  doubt,  the 
schoolboy  actors  enjoyed),  but  the  widow  gets  the  best  of 
it,  and  Ralph  is  driven  off. 

Our  first  real  tragedy  was  not  written  until  ten  years 
after  our  first  comedy.  This  first  tragedy  was  written  by 
Thomas  Norton  and  Thomas  Sackville,  Earl  of  Dorset. 
It  was  acted  by  the  gentlemen  of  the  Inner  Temple  "be- 
fore the  Queen's  most  excellent  Majestic  in  her  highness' 
Court  of  Whitehall  the  18th  day  of  January,  1561." 

Chaucer  tells  us  that  a  tragedy  is  a  story 

"Of  him  that  stood  in  great  prosperitie. 
And  is  yfallen  out  of  high  degree 
Into  miserie,  and  endeth  wretchedly."  ^ 

So  our  early  tragedies  were  all  taken  from  sad  stories  in  the 
old  Chronicle  histories.  And  this  first  tragedy,  written  by 
Norton  and  Sackville,  is  called  Gorhoduc,  and  is  founded 
upon  the  legend  of  Gorhoduc,  King  of  Britain.  The  story 
is  told,  though  not  quite  in  the  same  way,  by  Geoffrey  of 

*  Prologue  to  the  "Monk's  Tale,"  Canterbury  Tales. 


ABOUT  THE  FIRST  THEATERS  275 

Monmouth,  our  old  friend,  by  Matthew  of  Westminster, 
and  by  others  of  the  old  chroniclers.  For  in  writing  a  poem 
or  play  it  is  not  necessary  to  keep  strictly  to  history.  As 
Sir  Philip  Sidney,  Spenser's  friend,  says:  "Do  they  not 
know  that  a  tragedy  is  tied  to  the  laws  of  Poesie  and  not  of 
History,  not  bound  to  follow  the  story,  but,  having  liberty, 
either  to  fain  a  quite  new  matter,  or  to  frame  the  history  to 
the  most  tragical  convenience?"  ^ 

The  story  goes  that  Gorboduc,  King  of  Britain,  divided 
his  realm  during  his  lifetime  between  his  sons  Ferrex  and 
Porrex.  But  the  brothers  quarreled,  and  the  younger 
killed  the  elder.  The  mother,  who  loved  her  eldest  son 
most,  then  killed  the  younger  in  revenge.  Next  the  people, 
angry  at  such  cruelty,  rose  in  rebellion  and  killed  both 
father  and  mother.  The  nobles  then  gathered  and  defeated 
the  rebels.  And  lastly,  for  want  of  an  heir  to  the  throne, 
"they  fell  to  civil  war,"  and  the  land  for  a  long  time  was 
desolate  and  miserable. 

In  the  play  none  of  these  fearful  murders  happen  on  the 
stage.  They  are  only  reported  by  messengers.  There  is 
also  a  chorus  of  old  sage  men  of  Britain  who,  at  the  end  of 
each  act,  chant  of  what  has  happened.  When  you  come  to 
read  Greek  plays  you  will  see  that  this  is  more  like  Greek 
than  English  tragedy,  and  it  thus  shows  the  influence  of 
the  New  Learning  upon  our  literature.  But,  on  the  other 
hand,  in  a  Greek  drama  there  was  never  more  than  one 
scene,  and  all  the  action  was  supposed  to  take  place  on  one 
day.  This  was  called  preserving  the  unities  of  time  and 
place,  and  no  Greek  drama  which  did  not  observe  them 
would  have  been  thought  good.  In  Gorhoduc  there  are 
several  scenes,  and  the  action,  although  we  are  not  told  how 
long,  must  last  over  several  months  at  least.  So  that 
although  Gorhoduc  owed  something  to  the  New  Learning, 
which  had  made  men  study  Greek,  it  owed  as  much  to  the 

'  Sidney,  Apologie  for  Poetrie. 


276  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

old  English  Miracle  plays.  Later  on  when  you  come  to 
read  more  about  the  history  of  our  drama  you  will  learn 
a  great  deal  about  what  we  owe  to  the  Greeks,  but  here  I 
will  not  trouble  you  with  it. 

You  remember  that  in  the  JMorality  plays  there  was  no 
scener}^  And  still,  although  in  the  new  plays  which  were 
now  being  written  the  scene  was  supposed  to  change  from 
place  to  place,  there  was  no  attempt  to  make  the  stage  look 
like  these  places.  The  stage  was  merely  a  plain  platform, 
and  when  the  scene  changed  a  board  was  hung  up  with 
"This  is  a  Palace"  or  "This  is  a  Street"  and  the  imagina- 
tion of  the  audience  had  to  do  the  rest. 

That  some  people  felt  the  absurdity  of  this  we  learn 
from  a  book  by  Sir  Philip  Sidney.  In  it  he  says,  "You  shall 
have  Asia  of  the  one  side,  and  AfFrick  of  the  other,  and  so 
many  other  under  kingdoms,  that  the  Player,  when  he 
cometh  in,  must  ever  begin  with  telling  where  he  is,  or  else 
the  tale  will  not  be  conceived.  Now  you  shall  have  three 
ladies  walk  to  gather  flowers,  and  then  we  must  believe  the 
stage  to  be  a  garden.  "By  and  by,  we  hear  news  of  ship- 
wreck in  the  same  place,  and  then  we  are  to  blame  if  we 
accept  it  not  for  a  Rock.  Upon  the  back  of  that,  comes 
out  a  hideous  Monster,  with  fire  and  smoke,  and  then  the 
miserable  beholders  are  bound  to  take  it  for  a  cave.  While 
in  the  meantime  two  Armies  fly  in,  represented  with  four 
swords  and  bucklers,  and  then  what  hard  heart  will  not 
receive  it  for  a  pitched  field?"  ^ 

If  the  actors  of  the  Elizabethan  time  had  no  scenery 
they  made  up  for  the  lack  of  it  by  splendid  and  gorgeous 
dressing.  But  it  was  the  dressing  of  the  day.  The  play 
might  be  supposed  to  take  place  in  Greece  or  Rome  or 
Ancient  Britain,  it  mattered  not.  The  actors  dressed  after 
the  fashion  of  their  own  day.  And  neither  actors  nor 
audience  saw  anything  funny  in  it.     To  them  it  was  not 

^  An  Apologie  for  Poetrie,  published   1595. 


ABOUT  THE  FIRST  THEATERS  277 

funny  that  an  ancient  British  king  should  wear  doublet  and 
hose,  nor  that  his  soldiers  should  discharge  firearms  in  a 
scene  supposed  to  take  place  hundreds  of  j^ears  before 
gunpowder  had  been  invented.  But  we  must  remember 
that  in  those  days  dress  meant  much  more  than  it  does  now. 
Dress  helped  to  tell  the  story.  Men  then  might  not  dress 
according  to  their  likes  and  dislikes,  they  were  obliged  to 
dress  according  to  their  rank.  Therefore  it  helped  the 
Elizabethan  onlooker  to  understand  the  play  when  he  saw 
a  king,  a  courtier,  or  a  butcher  come  on  to  the  stage  dressed 
as  he  knew  a  king,  a  courtier,  or  a  butcher  dressed.  Had 
he  seen  a  man  of  the  sixth  century  dressed  as  a  man  of  the 
sixth  century  he  would  not  have  known  to  what  class  he 
belonged  and  would  not  have  understood  the  play  nearly 
so  well. 

But  besides  having  no  scenery,  the  people  of  England 
had  at  first  no  theaters.  Plaj^s  were  acted  in  halls,  in  the 
dining-halls  of  the  great  or  in  the  guild  halls  belonging  to 
the  various  trades.  It  was  not  until  1575  that  the  first 
theater  was  built  in  London.  This  first  theater  was  so 
successful  that  soon  another  was  built  and  still  another, 
until  in  or  near  London  there  were  no  fewer  than  twelve. 
But  these  theaters  were  very  unlike  the  theaters  we  know 
now.  They  were  really  more  like  the  places  where  people 
went  to  see  cock-fights  and  bear-baiting.  They  were  round, 
and  except  over  the  stage  there  was  no  roof.  The  rich 
onlookers  who  could  afi*ord  to  pay  well  sat  in  "boxes"  on 
the  stage  itself,  and  the  other  onlookers  sat  or  stood  in  the 
uncovered  parts.  Part  of  a  theater  is  still  called  the  pit, 
which  helps  to  remind  us  that  the  first  theaters  may  have 
served  as  "cock-pits"  or  "bear-pits"  too  as  well  as  theaters. 
For  a  long  time,  too,  the  theater  was  a  man's  amusement 
just  as  bear-baiting  or  cock-fighting  had  been.  There 
were  no  actresses,  the  women's  parts  were  taken  by  boys, 
and  at  first  ladies  when  they  came  to  look  on  wore  masks 


278  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

so  that  they  might  not  be   known,   as   they  were   rather 
ashamed  of  being  seen  at  a  theater. 

And  now  that  the  love  of  plays  and  shows  had  grown 
so  great  that  it  had  been  found  worth  while  to  build  special 
places  in  which  to  act,  you  may  be  sure  that  there  was  no 
lack  of  play-writers.  There  were  indeed  many  of  whom 
I  should  like  to  tell  you,  but  in  this  book  there  is  no  room 
to  tell  of  all.  To  show  you  how  many  dramatists  arose  in 
this  great  acting  age  I  will  give  you  a  list  of  the  greatest, 
all  of  whom  were  born  between  1552  and  1585.  After 
Nicholas  Udall  and  Thomas  Norton  and  Thomas  Sack- 
ville,  the  writers  of  our  first  comedy  and  first  tragedy, 
there  came: — 

George  Peel.  Francis  Beaumont. 

John  Lyljr.  John  Fletcher. 

Thomas  Kyd.  John  Webster. 

Robert  Greene.  Philip  Massinger. 

Christopher  Marlowe.  John    Ford. 

William  Shakespeare.  Thomas   Heywood. 
Ben  Jonson. 

It  would  be  impossible  to  tell  you  of  all  these,  so  I  shall 
choose  only  two,  and  first  I  shall  tell  you  of  the  greatest  of 
them — Shakespeare.  He  shines  out  from  among  the  others 
like  a  bright  star  in  a  clear  sky.  He  is,  however,  not  a 
lonely  star,  for  all  around  him  cluster  others.  They  are 
bright,  too,  and  if  he  were  not  there  we  might  think  some 
of  them  even  very  bright,  yet  he  outshines  them  all.  He 
forces  our  eyes  to  turn  to  him,  and  not  only  our  eyes  but 
the  eyes  of  the  whole  world.  For  all  over  the  world,  wher- 
ever poetry  is  read  and  plays  are  played,  the  name  of 
William  Shakespeare  is  known  and  reverenced. 


CHAPTER  XLV 

SHAKESPEARE— THE  BOY 

One  April  morning  nearly  three  hundred  and  fifty  years 
ago  there  was  stir  and  bustle  in  a  goodly  house  in  the 
little  country  town  of  Stratford-on-Avon.  The  neighbors 
went  in  and  out  with  nods  and  smiles  and  mysterious 
whisperings.  Then  there  was  a  sound  of  clinking  of  glasses 
and  of  laughter,  for  it  became  known  that  to  John  and 
IMary  Shakespeare  a  son  had  been  born,  and  presently  there 
was  brought  to  be  shown  to  the  company  "The  infant 
mewling  and  puking  in  the  nurse's  arms."  It  was  a  great 
event  for  the  father  and  mother,  something  of  an  event  for 
Stratford-on-Avon,  for  John  Shakespeare  was  a  man  of 
importance.  He  was  a  well-to-do  merchant,  an  alderman 
of  the  little  town.  He  seems  to  have  done  business  in 
several  ways,  for  we  are  told  that  he  was  a  glover,  a  butcher, 
and  a  corn  and  wool  dealer.  No  doubt  he  grew  his  own 
corn,  and  reared  and  killed  his  own  sheep,  making  gloves 
from  the  skins,  and  selling  the  wool  and  flesh.  His  wife, 
too,  came  of  a  good  yeoman  family  who  farmed  their  own 
land,  and  no  doubt  John  Shakespeare  did  business  with  his 
kinsfolk  in  both  corn  and  sheep.  And  although  he  could 
perhaps  not  read,  and  could  not  write  even  his  own  name, 
he  was  a  lucky  business  man  and  prosperous.  So  he  was 
well  considered  by  his  neighbors  and  had  a  comfortable 
house  in  Henley  Street,  built  of  rough  plastered  stone  and 
dark   strong  wood  work. 

And  now  this  April  morning  John  Shakespeare's  heart 

279 


280  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

was  glad.  Already  he  had  had  two  children,  two  little 
girls,  but  they  had  both  died.  Now  he  had  a  son  who 
would  surely  live  to  grow  strong  and  great,  to  be  a  comfort 
in  his  old  age  and  carry  on  his  business  when  he  could  no 
longer  work.  It  was  a  great  day  for  John  Shakespeare. 
How  little  he  knew  that  it  was  a  great  day  for  all  the  world 
and  for  all  time. 

Three  days  after  he  was  born  the  tiny  baby  was  chris- 
tened. And  the  name  his  father  and  mother  gave  him 
was  William.  After  this  three  months  passed  happily. 
Then  one  of  the  fearful  plagues  which  used  to  sweep  over 
the  land,  when  people  lived  in  dark  and  dirty  houses  in 
dark  and  dirty  streets,  attacked  Stratford-on-Avon.  Jolly 
John  Shakespeare  and  IMary,  his  wife,  must  have  been 
anxious  of  heart,  fearful  lest  the  plague  should  visit  their 
home.  John  did  what  he  could  to  stay  it.  He  helped  the 
stricken  people  with  money  and  goods,  and  presently  the 
plague  passed  away,  and  the  life  of  the  dearly  loved  little 
son  was  safe. 

Years  passed  on,  and  the  house  in  Henley  Street  grew 
ever  more  noisy  with  chattering  tongues  and  pattering 
feet,  until  little  Will  had  two  sisters  and  two  brothers  to 
keep  him  company. 

Then,  although  his  father  and  mother  could  neither  of 
them  write  themselves,  they  decided  that  their  children 
should  be  taught,  so  William  was  sent  to  the  Grammar 
School.  He  was,  I  think,  fonder  of  the  blue  sky  and  the 
slow-flowing  river  and  the  deep  dark  woods  that  grew 
about  his  home  than  of  the  low-roofed  schoolroom.  He 
went   perhaps 

"A  whining  schoolboy,  with  his  satchel 
And  shining  morning  face,  creeping  like  snail 
Unwillingly  to  school." 

But  we  do  not  know.  And  whether  he  liked  school  or  not, 
at  least  we  know  that  later,  when  he  came  to  write  plays,  he 


SHAKESPEARE— THE  BOY  281 

made  fun  of  schoolmasters.  He  knew  "little  Latin  and  less 
Greek,"  ^  said  a  friend  in  after  life,  but  then  that  friend  was 
very  learned  and  might  think  "little"  that  which  we  might 
take  for  "a  good  deal."  Indeed,  another  old  writer  says  "he 
understood  Latin  pretty  well."  ^ 

We  know  little  either  of  Shakespeare's  school  hours  or 
play  hours,  but  once  or  twice  at  least  he  may  have  seen  a 
play  or  pageant.  His  father  went  on  prospering  and  was 
made  chief  bailiff  of  the  town,  and  while  in  that  office  he 
entertained  twice  at  least  troups  of  strolling  players,  the 
Queen's  Company  and  the  Earl  of  Worcester's  Company. 
It  is  very  likely  that  little  Will  was  taken  to  see  the  plays 
they  acted.  Then  when  he  was  eleven  years  old  there  was 
great  excitement  in  the  country  town,  for  Queen  Elizabeth 
came  to  visit  the  great  Earl  of  Leicester  at  his  castle  of 
Kenilworth,  not  sixteen  miles  away.  There  were  great 
doings  then,  and  the  Queen  was  received  with  all  the  mag- 
nificence and  pomp  that  money  could  procure  and  imagi- 
nation invent.  Some  of  these  grand  shows  Shakespeare 
must  have  seen. 

Long  afterwards  he  remembered  perhaps  how  one 
evening  he  had  stood  among  the  crowd  tiptoeing  and  eager 
to  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  great  Queen  as  she  sat  enthroned 
on  a  golden  chair.  Her  red-gold  hair  gleamed  and 
glittered  with  jewels  under  the  flickering  torchlight. 
Around  her  stood  a  crowd  of  nobles  and  ladies  only  less 
brilliant  than  she.  Then,  as  William  gazed  and  gazed,  his 
eyes  aching  with  the  dazzling  lights,  there  was  a  movement 
in  the  surging  crowd,  a  murmur  of  "ohs"  and  "ahs."  And, 
turning,  the  boy  saw  another  lady,  another  Queen,  appear 
from  out  the  dark  shadow  of  the  trees.  Stately  and 
slowly  she  moved  across  the  grass.  Then  following  her 
came  a  winged  boy  with  golden  bow  and  arrows.  This 
was  the  God  of  Love,  who  roamed  the  world  shooting  his 

'Ben   Jonson.  'John   Aubrey. 


282  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

love  arrows  at  the  hearts  of  men  and  women,  making  them 
love  each  other.  He  aimed,  he  shot,  the  arrow  flew,  but 
the  god  missed  his  aim  and  the  lady  passed  on,  beautiful, 
cold,  free,  as  before.  Love  could  not  touch  her,  he  followed 
her  but  in  vain. 

It  was  with  such  pageants,  such  allegories,  that  her 
people  flattered  Queen  Elizabeth,  for  many  men  laid  their 
hearts  at  her  feet,  but  she  in  return  never  gave  her  own. 
She  was  the  woman  above  all  others  to  be  loved,  to  be 
worshiped,  but  herself  remained  in  "maiden  meditation 
fancy-free."  The  memory  of  those  brilhant  days  stayed 
with  the  poet-child.  They  were  sun-gilt,  as  childish  mem- 
ories are,  and  in  after  years  he  wrote: 

"That  very  time  I  saw  (but  thou  couldst  not) 
Flying  between  the  cold  moon  and  the  earth, 
Cupid  all  arm'd.     A  certain  aim  he  took 
At  a  fair  vestal,  throned  by  the  West, 
And  loos'd  his  love-shaft  smartly  from  his  bow. 
As  it  should  pierce  a  hundred  thousand  hearts; 
But  I  might  see  young  Cupid's  fiery  shaft 
Quench'd  in  the  chaste  beams  of  the  watery  moon. 
And  the  imperial  votaress  passed  on. 
In  maiden  meditation,  fancy-free. 
Yet  mark'd  I  where  the  bolt  of  Cupid  fell: 
It  fell  upon  a  little  western  flower; 
Before,  milk-white;  now,  purple  with  love's  wound. 
And  maidens  call  it  love-in-idleness."  ■■• 

Some  time  after  John  Shakespeare  became  chief 
bailifl"  his  fortunes  turned.  From  being  rich  he  became 
poor.  Bit  by  bit  he  was  obliged  to  sell  his  own  and  his 
wife's  property.  So  little  Will  was  taken  away  from 
school  at  the  age  of  thirteen,  and  set  to  earn  his  own  living 
as  a  butcher — his  father's  trade,  we  are  told.  But  if  he 
ever  was  a  butcher  he  was,  nevertheless,  an  actor  and  a 
poet,  "and  when  he  killed  a  calf  he  would  do  it  in  a  high 

*  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,,  Act  ii.  Scene  i. 


SHAKESPEARE— THE  BOY  283 

style  and  make  a  speech."  ^  How  Shakespeare  fared  in 
this  new  work  we  do  not  know,  but  we  may  fancy  him 
when  work  was  done  wandering  along  the  pretty  country 
lanes,  or  losing  himself  in  the  forest  of  Arden,  which  lay  not 
far  from  his  home,  "the  poet's  eye  in  a  fine  frenzy  rolling," 
and  singing  to  himself: 

"Jog  on,  jog  on,  the  footjpath  way. 
And  merrily  hent  the  stile-a; 
A  merry  heart  goes  all  the  day. 
Your  sad  tires  in  a  mile-a."  ^ 

He  knew  the  lore  of  fields  and  woods,   of  trees   and 
flowers,  and  birds  and  beasts.    He  sang  of 

"The  ousel-cock  so  black  of  hue. 

With  orange-tawny  bill. 
The  throstle  with  his  note  so  true. 

The  wren  with  little  quill. 
The  finch,  the  sparrow,  and  the  lark. 

The  plain-song  cuckoo  gray. 
Whose  note  full  many  a  man  doth  mark. 

And  dares  not  answer  nay."  ^ 

He  remembered,  perhaps,  in  after  years  his  rambles  by 
the  slow-flowing  Avon,  when  he  wrote: 

"He  makes  sweet  music  with  th'  enamell'd  stones. 
Giving  a  gentle  kiss  to  every  sedge 
He  overtaketh  in  his  pilgrimage; 
And  so  by  many  winding  nooks  he  strays. 
With  willing  sport,  to  the  wide  ocean."  * 

He  knew  the  times  of  the  flowers.    In  spring  he  marked 

"the  daffodils. 
That  come  before  the  swallow  dares,  and  take 
The  winds  of  March  with  beauty."  ^ 

*John  Aubrey. 

'  Winter's  Tale,  Act  iv.  Scene  ii. 

*  Midstimmer  Night's  Dream,  Act  iii.  Scene  i. 

*  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona,  Act  ii.  Scene  vii, 

*  Winter's  Tale. 


284  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Of  summer  flowers  he  tells  us 

"Hot  lavender,  mints,  savory,  marjoram; 
The  marigold,  that   goes   to  bed   wi'   the   ^"^' 
And  with  him  rises  weeping;  these  are  flowers 
Of  middle  summer."  ^ 

He  knew  that  "a  lapwing  runs  close  VY  t^e  ground, 
that  choughs  are  "russet-pated."     He  kne\*'  all  the  beauty 
that  is  to  be   found  throughout  the  couni^^T  year. 

Sometimes  in  his  country  wanderings  ^hakespeare  got 
into  mischief  too.  He  had  a  daring  spiri^'  ^^^  ^^  quiet 
dark  nights  he  would  creep  silently  about  ^^^  woods  snar- 
ing rabbits  or  hunting  deer.  But  we  ar^  told  he  was 
given  to  all  unluckiness  in  stealing  venisor^  ^^^  rabbits. 
He  was  often  caught,  sometimes  got  a  gd^d  beating,  and 
sometimes  was  sent  to  prison. 

So  the  years  passed  on,  and  we  knoT^  little  of  what 
happened  in  them.  Some  people  like  to  th^^k  that  Shakes- 
peare was  a  schoolmaster  for  a  time,  others  that  he 
was  a  clerk  in  a  lawyer's  office.  He  may  F^ve  been  one  or 
other,  but  we  do  not  know.  What  we  q^^  know  is  that 
when  he  was  eighteen  he  took  a  great  steP*  ^^  married. 
We  can  imagine  him  making  love-songs  then.  Perhaps 
he  sang: 

"O  mistress  mine,  where  are  you  roami'^S- 
O,  stay  and  hear;  your  true-love's  corf^^"S> 

That  can  sing  both  high  and  low: 
Trip    no    further,    pretty    sweeting; 
Journeys  end  in  lovers'  meeting; 

Every  wise  man's  son  doth  know,' 

What  is  love?  'tis  not  hereafter; 
Present  mirth  hath  present  laughter; 

What's  to  come  is  still  unsure: 
In  delay  there  lies  no  plenty ; 
Then  come  kiss  me,  sweet-and-twenty  • 

Youth's  a  stuff  will  not  endure."  ' 


*  Winter's  Tale.  '  Archdeacon  Davies.  '  Twelfth  Night. 


SHAKESPEARE— THE  BOY  285 

The  lady  whom  Shakespeare  married  was  named  Anne 
Hathaway.  She  came  of  farmer  folk  like  Shakespeare's 
own  mother.  She  was  eight  years  older  than  her  boyish 
lover,  but  beyond  that  we  know  little  of  Anne  Hathaway, 
for  Shakespeare  never  anywhere  mentions  his  wife. 

A  little  while  after  their  marriage  a  daughter  was  born 
to  Anne  and  William  Shakespeare.  Nearly  two  years  later 
a  little  boy  and  girl  came  to  them.  The  boy  died  when  he 
was  about  eleven,  and  only  the  two  little  girls,  Judith  and 
Susanna,  lived  to  grow  up. 

In  spite  of  the  fact  that  Shakespeare  had  now  a  wife 
and  children  to  look  after,  he  had  not  settled  down.  He 
was  still  wild,  and  being  caught  once  more  in  stealing  game 
he  left  Stratford  and  went  to  London. 


CHAPTER  XL VI 

SHAKESPEARE— THE  MAN 

When  Shakespeare  first  went  to  London  he  had  a  hard  Hfe. 
He  found  no  better  work  to  do  than  that  of  holding  horses 
outside  the  theater  doors.  In  those  days  the  plays  took 
place  in  the  afternoon,  and  as  many  of  the  fine  folk  who 
came  to  watch  them  rode  on  horseback,  some  one  was 
needed  to  look  after  the  horses  until  the  play  was  over. 
But  poor  though  this  work  was,  Shakespeare  seems  to  have 
done  it  well,  and  he  became  such  a  favorite  that  he  had 
several  boys  under  him  who  w^ere  long  known  as  "Shake- 
speare's boys."  Their  master,  however,  soon  left  work 
outside  the  theater  for  work  inside.  And  now  began  the 
busiest  years  of  his  life,  for  he  both  acted  and  wrote.  At 
first  it  may  be  he  only  altered  and  improved  the  plays  of 
others.  But  soon  he  began  to  write  plays  that  were  all  his 
own.  Yet  Shakespeare,  like  Chaucer,  never  invented  any 
of  his  own  stories.  There  is  only  one  play  of  his,  called 
Love's  Labor's  Lost,  the  story  of  which  is  not  to  be  found 
in  some  earlier  book.  That,  too,  may  have  been  founded 
on  another  story  which  is  now  lost. 

When  you  come  to  know  Shakespeare's  plays  well  you 
will  find  it  very  interesting  to  follow  his  stories  to  their 
sources.  That  of  King  Lear,  which  is  one  of  Shakespeare's 
great  romantic  historical  plays,  is,  for  instance,to  be  found  in 
Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  in  Wace's  Brut,  and  in  Layamon's 
Brut.  But  it  was  from  none  of  these  that  Shakespeare 
took  the  story,  but  from  the  chronicle  of  a  man  named 

286 


SHAKESPEARE— THE  MAN  287 

Holinshed  who  lived  and  wrote  in  the  time  of  Queen  Ehza- 
beth,  he  in  his  turn  having  taken  it  from  some  one  of  the 
earlier  sources. 

For,  after  all,  in  spite  of  the  thousands  of  books  that 
have  been  written  since  the  world  began,  there  are  only  a 
certain  number  of  stories  which  great  writers  have  told 
again  and  again  in  varying  ways.  One  instance  of  this 
we  saw  when  in  the  beginning  of  this  book  we  followed  the 
story  of  Arthur. 

But  although  Shakespeare  borrowed  his  plots  from 
others,  when  he  had  borrowed  them  he  made  them  all  his 
own.  He  made  his  people  so  vivid  and  so  true  that  he 
makes  us  forget  that  they  are  not  real  people.  We  can 
hardly  realize  that  they  never  lived,  that  they  never 
walked  and  talked,  and  cried  and  laughed,  loved  and  hated, 
in  this  world  just  as  we  do.  And  this  is  so  because  the 
stage  to  him  is  life  and  life  a  stage.  "All  the  world's  a 
stage,"   he   says, 

"And  all  the  men  and  women  merely  players: 
They  have  their  exits  and  their  entrances : 
And  one  man  in  his  time  plays  many  parts. 
His  acts  being  seven  ages."  ^ 

And  again  he  tells  us : 

"Life's  but  a  walking  shadow;  a  poor  player. 
That  struts  and  frets  his  hour  upon  the  stage 
And  then  is  heard  no  more."  " 

It  is  from  Shakespeare's  works  that  we  get  the  clearest 
picture  of  Elizabethan  times.  And  yet,  although  we  learn 
from  him  so  much  of  what  people  did  in  those  days,  of  how 
they  talked  and  even  of  how  they  thought,  the  chief  thing 
that  we  feel  about  Shakespeare's  characters  is,  not  that 
they  are  Elizabethan,  but  that  they  are  human,  that  they 
are  like  ourselves,  that  they  think,  and  say,  and  do,  things 
which  we  ourselves  might  think,  and  say,  and  do. 

^As  You  Like  It.  'Macbeth. 


288  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

There  are  many  books  we  read  which  we  think  of  as 
very  pretty,  very  quaint,  very  interesting — ^but  old-fash- 
ioned. But  Shakespeare  can  never  be  old-fashioned,  be- 
cause, although  he  is  the  outcome  of  his  own  times,  and 
gives  us  all  the  flavor  of  his  own  times,  he  gives  us  much 
more.  He  understood  human  nature,  he  saw  beneath  the 
outward  dress,  and  painted  for  us  real  men  and  women. 
And  although  fashion  in  dress  and  modes  of  living  may 
change,  human  nature  does  not  change.  "He  was  not  of 
an  age  but  for  all  time,"  it  was  said  of  him  about  seven 
years  after  his  death,  and  now  that  nearly  three  hundred 
years  have  come  and  gone  we  still  acknowledge  the  truth 
of  those  words. 

Shakespeare's  men  and  women  speak  and  act  and  feel 
in  the  main  as  we  might  now.  Many  of  his  people  we  feel 
are  our  brothers  and  sisters.  And  to  this  human  interest 
he  adds  something  more,  for  he  leads  us  too  through  "un- 
pathed  waters"  to  "the  undreamed  shores"  of  fairy- 
land. 

Shakespeare's  writing  time  was  short.  Before  he  left 
Stratford  he  wrote  nothing  unless  it  may  have  been  a  few 
scoffing  verses  against  the  Justice  of  the  Peace  who  pun- 
ished him  for  poaching.  But  these,  if  they  were  ever  writ- 
ten, are  lost.  In  the  last  few  years  of  his  life  he  wrote  little 
or  nothing.  Thus  the  number  of  his  writing  years  was  not 
more  than  twenty  to  twenty-five,  but  in  that  time  he  wrote 
thirty-seven  plays,  two  long  poems,  and  a  hundred  and 
fifty-six  sonnets.  At  one  time  he  must  have  written  two 
plays  every  year.  And  when  you  come  to  know  these 
plays  well  you  will  wonder  at  the  greatness  of  the  task. 

Shakespeare  writes  his  plays  sometimes  in  rime,  some- 
times in  blank  verse,  sometimes  in  prose,  at  times  using 
all  these  in  one  play.  In  this  he  showed  how  free  he  was 
from  rules.  For,  until  he  wrote,  plays  had  been  written 
in  rime  or  blank  verse  only. 


SHAKESPEARE— THE  MAN  289 

For  the  sake  of  convenience  Shakespeare's  plays  have 
been  divided  into  histories,  tragedies  and  comedies.  But 
it  is  not  always  easy  to  draw  the  line  and  decide  to  which 
class  a  play  belongs.  They  are  like  life.  Life  is 
not  all  laughter,  nor  is  it  all  tears.  Neither  are  Shake- 
speare's comedies  all  laughter,  and  some  of  his  trage- 
dies would  seem  at  times  to  be  too  deep  for  tears,  full 
only  of  fierce,  dark  sorrow — and  yet  there  is  laughter  in 
them  too. 

Besides  being  divided  into  histories,  tragedies  and 
comedies  they  have  been  divided  in  another  way,  into 
three  periods  of  time.  The  first  was  when  Shakespeare  was 
trying  his  hand,  when  he  was  brimming  over  with  the  joy 
of  the  new  full  life  of  London.  The  second  was  when  some 
dark  sorrow  lay  over  his  life,  we  know  not  what,  when  the 
pain  and  mystery  and  the  irony  of  living  seems  to  strike 
him  hard.  Then  he  wrote  his  great  tragedies.  The  third 
was  when  he  had  gained  peace  again,  when  life  seemed  to 
flow  calmly  and  smoothly,  and  this  period  lasted  until  the 
end. 

We  know  very  little  of  Shakespeare's  life  in  London. 
As  an  actor  he  never  made  a  great  name,  never  acted  the 
chief  character  in  a  play.  But  he  acted  sometimes  in  his 
own  plays  and  took  the  part,  we  are  told,  of  a  ghost  in  one, 
and  of  a  servant  in  another,  neither  of  them  great  parts. 
He  acted,  too,  in  plays  written  by  other  people.  But  it  was 
as  a  writer  that  he  made  a  name,  and  that  so  quickly  that 
others  grew  jealous  of  him.  One  called  him  "an  upstart 
Crow,  beautified  in  our  feathers  ...  in  his  own  conceit 
the  only  Shake-scene  in  the  countr}^"  ^  But  for  the  most 
part  Shakespeare  made  friends  even  of  rival  authors,  and 
many  of  them  loved  him  well.  He  was  good-tempered, 
merry,  witty,  and  kindly,  a  most  lovable  man.  "He  was  a 
handsome,  well-shaped  man,  very  good  company,   and  a 

*  Robert  Greene,  A  groatsworth  of  Wit  bought  with  a  million  of  repentance. 


290  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

very  ready  and  pleasant  smooth  wit,"  ^  said  one.  "I  loved 
the  man  and  do  honor  his  memory,  on  this  side  idolatry 
as  much  as  any.  He  was  indeed  honest  and  of  an  open  and 
free  nature,"  "  said  another.  Others  still  called  him  a  good 
fellow,  gentle  Shakespeare,  sweet  JMaster  Shakespeare.  I 
should  like  to  think,  too,  that  Spenser  called  him  "our 
pleasant  Willy."  But  wise  folk  tell  us  that  these  words 
v/ere  not  spoken  of  Shakespeare  but  of  some  one  else  whose 
name  was  not  William  at  all. 

And  so  although  outside  his  work  we  get  only  glimpses 
of  the  man,  these  glimpses  taken  together  with  his  writings 
show  us  Will  Shakespeare  as  a  big-hearted  man,  a  man  who 
understood  all  and  forgave  all.  He  understood  the  little 
joys  and  sorrows  that  make  up  life.  He  understood  the 
struggle  to  be  good,  and  would  not  scorn  people  too  greatly 
when  they  were  bad.  "Children,  we  feel  sure,"  says  one  of 
the  latest  writers  about  him,  "did  not  stop  their  talk  when 
he  came  near  them,  but  continued  in  the  happy  assurance 
that  it  was  only  Master  Shakespeare."  ^  And  so  if  children 
find  his  plays  hard  to  read  yet  a  while  they  may  at  least 
learn  to  know  his  stories  and  learn  to  love  his  name — it  is 
only  Master  Shakespeare.  But  they  must  remember  that 
learning  to  know  Shakespeare's  stories  through  the  words 
of  other  people  is  only  half  a  joy.  The  full  joy  of  Shake- 
speare can  only  come  when  we  are  able  to  read  his  plays 
in  his  very  own  words.  But  that  will  come  all  the  more 
easily  and  quickly  to  us  if  we  first  know  his  stories 
well. 

There  are  parts  in  some  of  Shakespeare's  plays  that 
many  people  find  coarse.  But  Shakespeare  is  not  really 
coarse.  We  remember  the  vision  sent  to  St.  Peter  which 
taught  him  that  there  was  nothing  common  or  unclean. 
Shakespeare  had  seen  that  vision.  In  life  there  is  nothing 
common  or  unclean,  if  we  only  look  at  it  in  the  right  way. 

^John   Aubrey.  =■  Ben   Jonson.  'Prof.   Raleigh. 


'IT    WAS    OXLV    MA-TER    >HAK.FsPEARE. 


SHAKESPEARE— THE  MAN  291 

And  Shakespeare  speaks  of  everything  that  touches  hfe 
most  nearly.  He  uses  words  that  we  do  not  use  now;  he 
speaks  of  things  we  do  not  speak  of  now;  but  it  was  the 
fashion  of  his  day  to  be  more  open  and  plain  spoken  than 
we  are.  And  if  we  remember  that,  there  is  very  Httle 
in  Shakespeare  that  need  hurt  us  even  if  there  is  a  great 
deal  which  we  cannot  understand.  And  when  you  come  to 
read  some  of  the  writers  of  Shakespeare's  age  and  see  that 
in  them  the  laughter  is  often  brutal,  the  horror  of  tragedy 
often  coarse  and  crude,  you  will  wonder  more  than  ever 
how  ShakesjDeare  made  his  laughter  so  sweet  and  sunny, 
and  how,  instead  of  revolting  us,  he  touches  our  hearts 
with  his  horror  and  pain. 

About  eleven  years  passed  after  Shakespeare  left  Strat- 
ford before  he  returned  there  again.  But  once  having 
returned,  he  often  paid  visits  to  his  old  home.  And  he 
came  now  no  more  as  a  poor  wild  lad  given  to  poaching. 
He  came  as  a  man  of  wealth  and  fame.  He  bought  the 
best  house  in  Stratford,  called  New  Place,  as  well  as  a  good 
deal  of  land.  So  before  John  Shakespeare  died  he  saw  his 
family  once  more  important  in  the  town. 

Then  as  the  years  went  on  Shakespeare  gave  up  all 
connection  with  London  and  the  theater  and  settled  down 
to  a  quiet  country  life.  He  planted  trees,  managed  his 
estate,  and  showed  that  though  he  was  the  world's  master- 
poet  he  was  a  good  business  man  too.  Everything  pros- 
pered with  him,  his  two  daughters  married  well,  and 
comfortably,  and  when  not  more  than  forty-three  he  held 
his  first  grandchild  in  his  arms.  It  may  be  he  looked 
forward  to  many  happy  peaceful  years  when  death  took 
him.  He  died  of  fever,  brought  on,  no  doubt,  by  the  evil 
smells  and  bad  air  by  which  people  lived  surrounded  in 
those  days  before  they  had  learned  to  be  clean  in  house 
and   street. 

Shakespeare  was  only  fifty-two  when  he  died.    It  was 


292  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

in  the  springtime  of  1616  that  he  died,  breathing  his  last 
upon 

"The  uncertain  glory  of  an  AjDril  day 
Which  now  shows  all  the  beauty  of  the  sun 
And  by  and  by  a  cloud  takes  all  away."  -^ 

He  was  buried  in  Stratford  Parish  Church,  and  on  his 
grave  was  placed  a  bust  of  the  poet.  That  bust  and  an 
engraving  in  the  beginning  of  the  first  great  edition  of  his 
works  are  the  only  two  real  portraits  of  Shakespeare. 
Both  were  done  after  his  death,  and  yet  perhaps  there  is  no 
face  more  well  known  to  us  than  that  of  the  greatest  of  all 
poets. 

Beneath  the  bust  are  written  these  lines: 

"Stay,  passenger,  why  goest  thou  by  so  fast? 
Read,  if  thou-canst,  whom  envious   Death  hath  plast* 
Within  this  monument;   Shakespeare  with  whome 
Quick  nature  dide:  whose  name  doth  deck  ys  tombe. 
Far  more  than  cost,  sith  all  yt  he  hath  writt. 
Leaves  living  art  but  page  to  serve  his  witt." 

Upon  a  slab  over  the  grave  is  carved: 

"Good  frend,  for  Jesus'  sake  forbeare 
To  digg  the  dust  encloased  heare; 
Bleste  be  ye  man  yt  spares  thes  stones, 
And  curst  be  he  yt  moves  my  bones." 

And  so  our  greatest  poet  lies  not  beneath  the  gi-eat  arch 
of  Westminster  but  in  the  quiet  church  of  the  little  country 
town  in  which  he  was  born. 

^  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona. 


CHAPTER  XL VII 

SHAKESPEARE— "THE  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE" 

In  this  chapter  I  am  going  to  tell  you  in  a  few  words  the 
story  of  one  of  Shakespeare's  plays  called  The  Merchant  of 
Venice.  It  is  founded  on  an  Italian  story,  one  of  a  collec- 
tion made  by  Ser  Giovanni  Fiorentino. 

The  merchant  of  Venice  was  a  rich  young  man  called 
Antonio.  When  the  story  opens  he  had  ventured  all  his 
money  in  trading  expeditions  to  the  East  and  other  lands. 
In  two  months'  time  he  expects  the  return  of  his  ships 
and  hopes  then  to  make  a  great  deal  of  money.  But 
meantime  he  has  none  to  s]3are,  and  when  his  great  friend 
Bassanio  comes  to  borrow  of  him  he  cannot  give  him  any. 

Bassanio's  need  is  urgent,  for  he  loves  the  beautiful 
lady  Portia  and  desires  to  marry  her.  This  lady  was  so 
lovely  and  so  rich  that  her  fame  had  spread  over  all  the 
world  till  "the  four  winds  blow  in  from  every  coast  re- 
nowned suitors."  Bassanio  would  be  among  these  suitors, 
but  alas  he  has  no  money,  not  even  enough  to  pay  for  the 
journey  to  Belmont  where  the  lovely  lady  lived.  Yet  if 
he  wait  two  months  until  Antonio's  ships  return  it  may  be 
too  late,  and  Portia  may  be  married  to  another.  So  to 
supply  his  friend's  need  Antonio  decides  to  borrow  the 
money,  and  soon  a  Jew  named  Shylock  is  found  who  is 
willing  to  lend  it.  For  Shylock  was  a  money-lender.  He 
lent  money  to  people  who  had  need  of  it  and  charged  them 
interest.  That  is,  besides  having  to  pay  back  the  full  sum 
they  had  borrowed  they  had  also  to  pay  some  extra  money 
in  return  for  the  loan. 

293 


294  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

In  those  days  Jews  were  ill-treated  and  despised,  and 
there  was  great  hatred  between  them  and  Christians.  And 
Shylock  especially  hated  Antonio,  because  not  only 
did  he  rail  against  Jews  and  insult  them,  but  he  also  lent 
money  without  demanding  interest,  thereby  spoiling  Shy- 
lock's  trade.  So  now  the  Jew  lays  a  trap  for  Antonio, 
hoping  to  catch  him  and  be  revenged  upon  his  enemy. 
He  will  lend  the  money,  he  says,  and  he  will  charge  no 
interest,  but  if  the  loan  be  not  repaid  in  three  months 
Antonio  must  pay  as  forfeit  a  pound  of  his  own  flesh, 
which  Shylock  may  cut  from  any  part  of  his  body  that  he 
chooses. 

To  this  strange  bargain  Antonio  consents.  It  is  but 
a  jest,  he  thinks. 

"Content  in  faith,  I'll  seal  to  such  a  bond, 
And  say,  there  is  much  kindness  in  the  Jew." 

But  Bassanio  is  uneasy.  "I  like  not  fair  terms,"  he 
says,  "and  a  villain  mind.  You  shall  not  seal  to  such  a 
bond  for  me."  But  Antonio  insists  and  the  bond  is 
sealed. 

All  being  settled,  Bassanio  receives  the  money,  and 
before  he  sets  off  to  woo  his  lady  he  gives  a  supper  to  all 
his  friends,  to  which  he  also  invites  Shylock.  Shylock 
goes  to  this  supper  although  to  his  daughter  Jessica  he 
says, 

"But  wherefore  should  I  go? 
I  am  not  bid  for  love;  they  flatter  me: 
But  yet  I'll  go  in  hate,  to  feed  upon 
The  prodigal  Christian." 

But  Jessica  does  not  join  her  father  in  his  hatred  of  all 
Christians.  She  indeed  has  given  her  heart  to  one  of  the 
hated  race,  and  well  knowing  that  her  father  will  never 
allow  her  to  marry  him,  she,  that  night  while  he  is  at  supper 
with  Bassanio,  dresses  herself  in  boy's  clothes  and  steals 


"THE  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE"  295 

away,   taking  with   her   a   great  quantity   of   jewels   and 
money. 

When  Shylock  discovers  his  loss  he  is  mad  with  grief 
and  rage.     He  runs  about  the  streets  crying  for  justice. 

"Justice !  the  law !  my  ducats,  and  my  daughter ! 
A  sealed  bag,  two  sealed  bags  of  ducats, 
Of  double  ducats  stol'n  from  me  by  my  daughter!" 

And  all  the  wild  boys  in  Venice  follow  after  him  mock- 
ing him  and  crying,  "His  stones,  his  daughter  and  his 
ducats!" 

So  finding  nowhere  love  or  sympathy  but  everywhere 
only  mockery  and  cruel  laughter,  Shylock  vows  vengeance. 
The  world  has  treated  him  ill,  and  he  will  repay  the  world 
with  ill,  and  chiefly  against  Antonio  does  his  anger  grow 
bitter. 

Then  Antonio's  friends  shake  their  heads  and  say,  "Let 
him  beware  the  hatred  of  the  Jew."  They  look 
gravely  at  each  other,  for  it  is  whispered  abroad  that 
"Antonio  hath  a  ship  of  rich  lading  wreck'd  on  the  narrow 
seas." 

Then   let   Antonio   beware. 

"Thou  wilt  not  take  his  flesh,"  says  one  of  the  young 
merchant's  friends  to  Shylock.  "What's  that  good 
for?" 

"To  bait  fish  withal,"  snarls  the  Jew.  "If  it  will  feed 
nothing  else  it  will  feed  my  revenge.  He  hath  disgraced 
me,  and  hindered  me  half  a  million;  laughed  at  my  losses, 
mocked  at  my  gains,  scorned  my  nation,  thwarted 
my  bargains,  cooled  my  friends,  heated  mine  enemies; 
and  what's  his  reason?  I  am  a  Jew.  Hath  not  a  Jew 
eyes?  Hath  not  a  Jew  hands,  organs,  dimensions,  senses, 
affections,  passions?  Fed  with  the  same  food,  hurt 
with  the  same  weapons,  subject  to  the  same  diseases, 
healed  by   the   same   means,   warmed   and  cooled  by  the 


296  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

same  winter  and  summer,  as  a  Christian  is?  If  you 
prick  us,  do  we  not  bleed?  If  you  tickle  us,  do  we  not 
laugh?  If  you  poison  us,  do  we  not  die?  If  you  wrong 
us,  shall  we  not  revenge?  If  we  are  like  you  in  the  rest,  we 
will  resemble  you  in  that.  If  a  Jew  wrong  a  Christian, 
what  is  his  humility?  Revenge.  If  a  Christian  wrong 
a  Jew,  what  should  his  sufferance  be  by  Christian  ex- 
ample? Why,  revenge.  The  villainy  you  teach  me,  I 
will  execute,  and  it  shall  go  hard  but  I  will  better  the 
instruction." 

Then  let  Antonio  beware. 

Meantime  in  Belmont  many  lovers  come  to  woo  fair 
Portia.  With  high  hope  they  come,  with  anger  and  dis- 
appointment they  go  away.  None  can  win  the  lady's 
hand.  For  there  is  a  riddle  here  of  which  none  knows 
the  meaning. 

When  a  suitor  presents  himself  and  asks  for  the 
lady's  hand  in  marriage,  he  is  shown  three  caskets,  one 
of  gold,  one  of  silver,  and  one  of  lead.  Upon  the  golden 
one  is  written  the  words,  "Who  chooseth  me,  shall  gain 
what  many  men  desire";  upon  the  silver  casket  are  the 
words,  "Who  chooseth  me,  shall  get  as  much  as  he  de- 
serves"; and  upon  the  leaden  one,  "Who  chooseth  me,  must 
give  and  hazard  all  he  hath."  And  only  whoso  chooseth 
aright,  each  suitor  is  told,  can  win  the  lady. 

This  trial  of  all  suitors  had  been  ordered  by  Portia's 
father  ere  he  died,  so  that  only  a  worthy  and  true  man 
might  win  his  daughter.  Some  suitors  choose  the  gold, 
some  the  silver  casket,  but  all,  princes,  barons,  counts, 
and  dukes,  alike  choose  ^vrong. 

At  length  Rassanio  comes.  Already  he  loves  Portia, 
and  she  loves  him.  There  is  no  need  of  any  trial  of  the 
caskets.  Yet  it  must  be.  Her  father's  will  must  be 
obeyed.  But  what  if  he  choose  wi'ong.  That  is  Portia's 
fear. 


"THE  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE"  297 

"I  pray  you^  tarry;  pause  a  day  or  two 
Before  you  hazard ;  for,  in  choosing  wrong, 
I  lose  your  company," 

she  says. 

But   Bassanio  cannot  wait: — 

"Let  me  choose; 
For,  as   I  am,   I  live  upon  the  rack." 

And  so  he  stands  before  the  caskets,  longing  to  make 
a  choice,  yet  fearful.  The  gold  he  rejects,  the  silver  too, 
and  lays  his  hand  upon  the  leaden  casket.  He  opens  it. 
Oh,  joy!  within  is  a  portrait  of  his  lady.  He  has  chosen 
aright.     Yet  he  can  scarce  believe  his  happiness. 

"I  am,"  he  says, 

"Like  one  of  two  contending  in  a  prize, 
That  thinks  he  hath  done  well  in  people's  eyes. 
Hearing  applause,  and  universal  shout. 
Giddy  in  spirit;,  still  gazing  in  a  doubt 
Whether  those  peals  of  praise  be  his  or  no; 
So,  thrice  fair  lady,  stand   I,  even  so; 
As  doubtful  whether  what  I  see  be  true. 
Until  confirm'd,  sign'd,  ratifi'd  by  you." 

And  Portia,  happy,  triumphant,  humble,  no  longer 
the  great  lady  with  untold  wealth,  with  lands  and  palaces 
and  radiant  beauty,  but  merely  a  woman  who  has  given 
her  love,  answers: — 

"You  see  me.  Lord  Bassanio,  where  I  stand. 
Such  as  I  am:  though,  for  myself  alone, 
I  would  not  be  ambitious  in  my  wish. 
To  wish  myself  much  better;  yet,  for  you, 
I  would  be  trebled  twenty  times  myself; 
A  thousand  times  more  fair,  ten  thousand  times 
More  rich; 

That  only  to  stand  high  on  your  account, 
I  might  in  virtues,  beauties,  livings,  friends. 
Exceed  account:  but  the  full  sum  of  me 
Is  sum  of  something:  which,  to  term  in  gross. 
Is  an  unlesson'd  girl,  unschool'd,  unpractis'd^ 


298  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Happy  in  this^  she  is  not  yet  so  old 
But  she  may  learn;  happier  than  this^ 
She  is  not  bred  so  dull  but  she  can  learn; 
Happiest  of  all,  is,  that  her  gentle  spirit 
Commite  itself  to  yours  to  be  directed, 
As  from  her  lord,  her  governor,  her  king. 
Myself,  and  what  is  mine,  to  you,  and  yours 
Is  now  converted;  but  now  I  was  the  lord 
Of  this  fair  mansion,  master  of  my  servants. 
Queen  o'er  myself;  and  even  now,  but  now. 
This  house,  these  servants,  and  this  same  myself. 
Are  yours,  my  lord." 

Then  as  a  pledge  of  all  her  love  Portia  gives  to  Bassanio 
a  ring,  and  bids  him  never  part  from  it  so  long  as  he 
shall  live.  And  Bassanio  taking  it,  gladly  swears  to  keep 
it  forever. 

"But  when  this  ring 
Parts   from  this  finger,  then  parts   life   from  hence; 
O,  then  be  bold  to  say,  Bassanio's  dead." 

And  then  as  if  to  make  the  joy  complete,  it  is  dis- 
covered that  Portia's  lady  in  waiting,  Nerissa,  and  Bas- 
sanio's friend,  Gratiano,  also  love  each  other,  and  they 
all  agree  to  be  married  on  the  same  day. 

In  the  midst  of  this  happiness  the  runaway  couple, 
Lorenzo  and  Jessica,  arrive  from  Venice  with  another  of 
Antonio's  friends  who  brings  a  letter  to  Bassanio.  As 
Bassanio  reads  the  letter  all  the  gladness  fades  from  his 
face.  He  grows  pale  and  trembles.  Anxiously  Portia 
asks  what  troubles  him. 

"I  am  half  yourself. 
And  I  must  freely  have  the  half  of  anything 
That  this  same  paper  brings  you." 

And  Bassanio  answers: — 

"O  sweet  Portia, 
Here  are  a  few  of  the  unpleasant'st  words 
That  ever  blotted  paper !    Gentle  lady. 


''THE  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE"  299 

When  I  did  first  impart  my  love  to  you, 

I  freely  told  you,  all  the  wealth  I  had 

Ran  in  my  veins,  I  was  a  gentleman; 

And  then  I  told  }■  ou  true :  and  yet,  dear  lady. 

Rating  myself  at  nothing,  you  shall  see 

How  much  I  was  a  braggart:  when  I  told  you 

My  state  was  nothing,  I  should  then  have  told  you 

That  I  was  worse  than  nothing." 

He  is  worse  than  nothing,  for  he  is  in  debt  to  his 
friend,  and  that  friend  for  him  is  now  in  danger  of  his  Hfe. 
For  the  three  months  allowed  by  Shylock  for  the  payment 
of  the  debt  are  over,  and  as  not  one  of  Antonio's  ships  has 
returned,  he  cannot  pay  the  money.  Many  friends  have 
offered  to  pay  for  him,  but  Shylock  will  have  none  of 
their  gold.  He  does  not  want  it.  What  he  wants  is 
revenge.  He  wants  Antonio's  life,  and  well  he  knows  if  a 
pound  of  flesh  be  cut  from  this  poor  merchant's  breast 
he  must  die. 

And  all  for  three  thousand  ducats!  "Oh,"  cries  Portia 
when  she  hears,  "what  a  paltry  sum!  Pay  the  Jew  ten 
times  the  money  and  tear  up  the  bond,  rather  than  that 
Antonio  shall  lose  a  single  hair  through  Bassanio's  fault." 

"It  is  no  use,"  she  is  told,  "Shylock  will  have  his  bond, 
and  nothing  but  his   bond." 

If  that  be  so,  then  must  Bassanio  hasten  to  his  friend 
to  comfort  him  at  least.  So  the  wedding  is  hurried  on, 
and  immediately  after  it  Bassanio  and  Gratiano  haste  away, 
leaving  their  new  made  wives  behind  them. 

But  Portia  has  no  mind  to  sit  at  home  and  do  nothing 
while  her  husband's  friend  is  in  danger  of  his  life.  As 
soon  as  Bassanio  has  gone,  she  gives  her  house  into  the 
keeping  of  Lorenzo  and  sets  out  for  Venice.  From  her 
cousin,  the  great  lawyer  Bellario,  she  borrows  lawyer's 
robes  for  herself,  and  those  of  a  lawyer's  clerk  for  Nerissa. 
And  thus  disguised,  they  reach  Venice  safely. 

This  part  of  the  story  has  brought  us  to  the  fourth  act 


300  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  the  play,  and  when  the  curtain  rises  on  this  act  we  see 
the  Court  of  Justice  in  Venice.  The  Duke  and  all  his 
courtiers  are  present,  the  prisoner  Antonio,  with  Bassanio, 
and  many  others  of  his  friends.  Shylock  is  called  in.  The 
Duke  tries  to  soften  the  Jew's  heart  and  make  him  turn 
to  mercy,  in  vain.  Bassanio  also  tries  in  vain,  and  still 
Bellario,  to  whom  the  Duke  has  sent  for  aid,  comes  not. 
At  this  moment  Nerissa,  dressed  as  a  lawyer's  clerk, 
enters,  hearing  a  letter.  The  letter  is  from  Bellario  recom- 
mending a  young  lawj^er  named  Balthazar  to  plead 
Antonio's  cause.  This  is,  of  course,  none  other  than  Por- 
tia. She  is  admitted,  and  at  once  begins  the  case.  "You 
stand  within  his  danger,  do  you  not?"  she  says  to  An- 
tonio. 

"Antonio.   I  do. 
Portia.   Then  must  the  Jew  be  merciful. 
Shylock.   On  what  compulsion  must  I  ?  tell  me  that. 
Portia.   The  quality  of  mercy  is  not  strained; 

It  droppeth,  as  the  gentle  rain  from  heaven 

Upon  the  place  beneath;  it  is  twice  blessed; 

It  blesseth  him  that  gives,  and  him  that  takes: 

'Tis  mightiest  in  the  mightiest;  it  becomes 

The  throned  monarch  better  than  his  crown; 

His  scepter  shows  the  force  of  temporal  power. 

The  attribute  to  awe  and  majesty, 

Wherein  doth  sit  the  dread  and  fear  of  kings; 

But  mercy  is  above  this  sceptr'd  sway, 

It  is  enthroned  in  the  hearts  of  kings. 

It  is  an  attribute  to  God  himself; 

And  earthly  power  doth  then  show  likest  God's 

When  mercy  seasons  justice.     Therefore,  Jew, 

Though  justice  be  thy  plea,  consider  this — 

That  in  the  course  of  justice,  none  of  us 

Shall  see  salvation:  we  do  pray  for  mercy; 

And  that  same  prayer  doth  teach  us  all  to  render 

The  deeds  of  mercy.     I  have  spoke  thus  much, 

To  mitigate  the  justice  of  thy  plea; 

Which  if  thou  follow,  this  strict  court  of  Venice 

Must  needs  give  sentence  'gainst  the  merchant  there. 


"THE  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE"  301 

Shylock.   My  deeds  upon  my  head !     I  crave  the  law, 

The  penalty  and  forfeit  of  my  bond. 
Portia.   Is  he  not  able  to  discharge  the  money.'' 
Bassanio.     Yes,  here  I  tender  it  for  him  in  the  court; 

Yea,  twice  the  sum:  if  that  will  not  suffice, 

I  will  be  bound  to  pay  it  ten  times  o'er. 

On  forfeit  of  my  hands,  my  head,  my  heart: 

If  this  will  not  suffice,  it  must  appear 

That  malice  bears  down  truth.     And  I  beseech  you 

Wrest  once  the  law  to  your  authority: 

To  do  a  great  right,  do  a  little  wrong; 

And  curb  this  cruel  devil  of  his  will. 
Portia.   It  must  not  be ;  there  is  no  power  in  Venice 

Can  alter  a  decree  established: 

'Twill  be  recorded  for  a  precedent; 

And  many  an  error,  by  the  same  example. 

Will  rush  into  the  state;  it  cannot  be. 
Shylock.  A  Daniel  come  to  judgement!  yea,  a  Daniel! 

O  wise  young  judge,  how  I  do  honour  thee! 
Portia.   I  pray  you,  let  me  look  upon  the  bond. 
Shylock.   Here  'tis,  most  reverend  doctor,  here  it  is. 
Portia.     Shylock,  there's  thrice  thy  money  offered  thee. 
Shylock.  An  oath,  an  oath,  I  have  an  oath  in  heaven: 

Shall  I  lay  perjury  upon  my  soul.^ 

No,  not  for  Venice. 
Portia.  Why,  this  bond  is  forfeit: 

And  lawfully  by  this  the  Jew  may  claim 

A  pound  of  flesh,  to  be  by  him  cut  off 

Nearest  the  merchant's  heart.     Be  merciful; 

Take  thrice  thy  money;  bid  me  tear  the  bond. 
Shylock.     When  it  is  paid  according  to  the  tenour. 

It  doth  appear  you  are  a  worthy  judge; 

You  know  the  law,  your  exposition 

Hath  been  most  sound;  I  charge  you  by  the  law. 

Whereof  you  are  a  well-deserving  pillar. 

Proceed  to  judgment:  by  my  soul  I  swear. 

There  is  no  power  in  the  tongue  of  man 

To  alter  me:  I  stay  here  on  my  bond. 
Antonio.   IVIost  heartily  I  do  beseech  the  court 

To  give  the  judgement. 
Portia.  Why  then,  thus  it  is. 

You  must  prepare  your  bosom  for  his  knife. 


302  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Shylock.  O  noble  judge!     O  excellent  young  man! 
Portia.   For  the  intent  and  purpose  of  the  law 

Hath  full  relation  to  the  penalty^ 

Which  here  appeareth  due  upon  the  bond, 
Shylock.   'Tis  very  true:  O  wise  and  upright  judge! 

How  much  more  elder  art  thou  than  thy  looks ! 
Portia.   Therefore^  lay  bare  your  bosom. 
Shylock.  Ay,  his  breast: 

So  says  the  bond; — Doth  it  not,  noble  judge? 

Nearest  his  heart,  those  are  the  very  words. 
Portia.   It  is  so.     Are  there  balance  here,  to  weigh 

The  flesh.? 
Shylock.   I  have  them  ready. 
Portia.     Have  by  some  surgeon,  Shylock,  on  your  charge. 

To  stop  his  wounds,  lest  he  do  bleed  to  death. 
Shylock.   Is  it  so  nominated  in  the  bond? 
Portia.   It  is  not  so  express'd.     But  what  of  that? 

'Twere  good  you  do  so  much  for  charity. 
Shylock.  I  cannot  find  it;  'tis  not  in  the  bond. 
Portia.   Come,  merchant,  have  you  anything  to  say?" 

Antonio  answers,  "But  little."  He  is  prepared  for 
death,  and  takes  leave  of  Bassanio.  But  Shylock  is  im- 
patient. "We  trifle  time,"  he  cries;  "I  pray  thee,  pursue 
sentence." 

"Portia.     A  pound  of  that  same  merchant's  flesh  is  thine; 

The  court  awards  it,  and  the  law  doth  give  it. 
Shylock.     Most  rightful  judge! 
Portia.     And  you  must  cut  this  flesh  from  off  his  breast; 

The  law  allows  it ;  and  the  court  awards  it. 
Shylock.     Most  learned  judge! — A  sentence;  come,  prepare. 
Portia.     Tarry  a  little; — there  is  something  else. 

This  bond  doth  give  thee  here  no  jot  of  blood; 

The  words  expressly  are,  a  pound  of  flesh; 

Take  then  thy  bond,  take  thou  thy  pound  of  flesh: 

But,  in  the  cutting  it,  if  thou  dost  shed 

One  drop  of  Christian  blood,  thy  lands  and  goods 

Are,  by  the  laws  of  Venice,  confiscate 

Unto  the  state  of  Venice. 
Gratiano.     O  upright  judge! — Mark,  Jew; — O  learned  judge! 
Shylock.     Is  that  the  law? 


"THE  MERCHANT  OF  VENICE"  303 

Portia.  Thyself  shall  see  the  act; 

For,  as  thou  urgest  justice,  be  assur'd. 

Thou  shalt  have  justice,  more  than  thou  desir'st. 
Gratiano.     O  learned  judge, — Mark,  Jew; — a  learned  judge! 
Shylock.     I  take  this  offer  then, — pay  the  bond  thrice, 

And  let  the  Christian  go. 
Bassanio.  Here  is  the  money. 

Portia.     Soft; 

The  Jew  shall  have  all  justice; — soft; — no  haste; — 

He  shall  have  nothing  but  the  penalty. 
Gratiano.     O  Jew!     An  upright  judge,  a  learned  judge! 
Portia.     Therefore,  prepare  thee  to  cut  off  the  flesh. 

Shed  thou  no  blood ;  nor  cut  thou  less,  nor  more. 

But  just  a  pound  of  flesh:  if  thou  tak'st  more. 

Or  less,  than  a  just  pound, — be  it  but  so  much 

As  makes  it  light,  or  heavy,  in  the  substance. 

Or  the  division  of  the  twentieth  part 

Of  one  poor  scruple, — nay,  if  the  scale  do  turn 

But  in  the  estimation  of  a  hair, — 

Thou  diest,  and  all  thy  goods  are  confiscate. 
Gratiano.     A  second  Daniel,  a  Daniel,  Jew! 

Now,  infidel,  I  have  thee  on  the  hip. 
Portia.     Why  doth  the  Jew  pause?     Take  thy  forfeiture. 
Shylock.     Give  me  my  principal,  and  let  me  go. 
Bassanio.     I  have  it  ready  for  thee;  here  it  is. 
Portia.     He  hath  refus'd  it  in  the  open  court; 

He  shall  have  merely  justice,  and  his  bond. 
Gratiano.     A  Daniel,  still  say  I;  a  second  Daniel! 

I  thank  thee,  Jew,  for  teaching  me  that  word. 
Shylock.     Shall  I  not  hare  barely  my  principal? 
Portia.     Thou  shalt  have  nothing  but  the  forfeiture. 

To  be  so  taken  at  thy  peril,  Jew." 

So,  seeing  himself  beaten  on  all  points,  the  Jew  would 
leave  the  court.  But  not  yet  is  he  allowed  to  go.  Not 
until  he  has  been  fined  for  attempting  to  take  the  life  of  a 
Venetian  citizen,  not  until  he  is  humiliated,  and  so  heaped 
with  disgrace  and  insult  that  we  are  sorry  for  him,  is  he 
allowed  to  creep  awaj''. 

The  learned  lawyer  is  loaded  with  thanks,  and  Bassanio 
wishes   to   pay    him    nobly    for    his    pains.      But    he   will 


304  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

take  nothing;  nothing,  that  is,  but  the  ring  which  glitters 
on  Bassanio's  finger.  That  Bassanio  cannot  give — it  is 
his  wife's  present  and  he  has  promised  never  to  part  with 
it.  At  that  the  lawyer  pretends  anger.  "I  see,  sir,"  he 
says : — ^ 

"You  are  liberal  in  offers: 
You  taught  me  first  to  beg;  and  now,  methinks, 
You  teach  me  how  a  beggar  should  be  answered." 

Hardly  have  they  parted  than  Bassanio  repents  his 
seemingly  churlish  action.  Has  not  this  young  man  saved 
his  friend  from  death,  and  himself  from  disgrace?  Por- 
tia will  surely  understand  that  his  request  could  not  be 
refused,  and  so  he  sends  Gratiano  after  him  with  the  ring. 
Gratiano  gives  the  ring  to  the  lawyer,  and  the  seeming 
clerk  begs  Gratiano  for  his  ring,  which  he,  following  his 
friend's  example,  gives. 

In  the  last  act  of  the  play  all  the  friends  are  gathered 
again  at  Belmont.  After  some  merry  teasing  upon  the 
subject  of  the  rings  the  truth  is  told,  and  Bassanio  and 
Gratiano  learn  that  the  skillful  lawyer  and  his  clerk  were 
none  other  than  their  young  and  clever  wives. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Among  the  best  books  of  Shakespeare's  stories  are:  Stories  from  Shakespeare, 
by  Jeanie  Lang.  The  Shakespeare  Story-Book,  by  Mary  M'Leod.  Tales  from 
Shakespeare  (Everyman's  Library),  by  C.  and  M.  Lamb. 

LIST  OF  SHAKESPEARE'S  PLAYS 

Histories. — Henry  vi.  (three  parts);  Richard  iii. ;  Richard  ii. ;  King  John; 
Henry  iv.  (two  parts);  Henry  v.;  Henry  viii.   (doubtful  if  Shakespeare's). 

Tragedies. — Titus  Andronicus;  Romeo  and  Juliet;  Julius  Caesar;  Hamlet; 
Othello;  King  Lear;  Macbeth;  Timon  of  Athens;  Antony  and  Cleopatra; 
Coriolanus. 

Comedies. — Love's  Labour's  Lost;  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona;  Comedy  of 
Errors;  Merchant  of  Venice;  Taming  of  the  Shrew;  A  Midsummer  Night's 
Dream;  All's  Well  that  Ends  Well;  Merry  Wives  of  Windsor;  Much  Ado  About 
Nothing;  As  You  Like  It;  Twelfth  Night;  Triolus  and  Cressida;  Measure  for 
Measure;  Pericles;  Cymbeline;  The  Tempest;  A  Winter's  Tale. 


CHAPTER  XL VIII 

JONSON— "EVERY  MAN  IN  HIS  HUMOUR" 

Of  all  the  dramatists  who  were  Shakespeare's  friends, 
of  those  who  wrote  before  him,  with  him,  and  just  after 
him,  we  have  little  room  to  tell.  But  there  is  one  who 
stands  almost  as  far  above  them  all  as  Shakespeare  stands 
above  him.  This  is  Ben  Jonson,  and  of  him  we  must 
speak. 

Ben  Jonson's  life  began  in  poverty,  his  father  dying 
before  he  was  born,  and  leaving  his  widow  poorly  pro- 
vided for.  When  Ben  was  about  two  years  old  his  mother 
married  again,  and  this  second  husband  was  a  bricklayer. 
Ben,  however,  tells  us  that  his  own  father  was  a  gentleman, 
belonging  to  a  good  old  Scottish  Border  family,  and  that 
he  had  lost  all  his  estates  in  the  reign  of  Queen  ]Mary. 
But  about  the  truth  of  this  we  do  not  know,  for  Ben  was 
a  bragger  and  a  swaggerer.  He  may  not  have  belonged 
to  this  Sc  ttish  family,  and  he  may  have  had  no  estates 
to  lose.  Ben  first  went  to  a  little  school  at  St.  JNIartin's- 
in-the-fields  in  London.  There,  somehow,  the  second 
master  of  Westminster  School  came  to  know  of  him, 
became  his  friend,  and  took  him  to  Westminster,  where 
he  paid  for  his  schooling.  But  when  Ben  left  school  he 
had  to  earn  a  living  in  some  way,  so  he  became  a  brick- 
layer like  his  step-father,  when  "having  a  trowell  in  his 
hand  he  had  a  book  in  his  pocket."  ^ 

He  did  not  long  remain  a  bricklayer,  however,  for  he 

*  Fuller. 
305 


306  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

could  not  endure  the  life,  and  next  we  find  him  a  soldier 
in  the  Netherlands.  We  know  very  little  of  what  he  did 
as  a  soldier,  and  soon  he  was  home  again  in  England. 
Here  he  married.  His  wife  was  a  good  woman,  but  with  a 
sharp  tongue,  and  the  marriage  does  not  seem  to  have 
been  very  happy.  And  although  they  had  several  children, 
all  of  them  died  young. 

And  now,  like  Shakespeare,  Jonson  became  an  actor. 
Like  Shakespeare  too,  he  wrote  plays.  His  first  play  is 
that  by  which  he  is  best  known,  called  Every  Man  in  His 
Humour,  By  a  man's  humor,  Jonson  means  his  chief 
characteristic,  one  man,  for  instance,  showing  himself 
jealous,  another  boastful,  and  so  on. 

It  will  be  a  long  time  before  you  will  care  to  read  Every 
Man  in  His  Humour,  for  there  is  a  great  deal  in  it  that  you 
would  neither  understand  nor  like.  It  is  a  play  of  the 
manners  and  customs  of  Elizabethan  times  which  are  so 
unlike  ours  that  we  have  little  sympathy  with  them.  And 
that  is  the  difference  between  Ben  Jonson  and  Shakespeare. 
Shakespeare,  although  he  wrote  of  his  own  time,  wrote  for 
all  time;  Jonson  wrote  of  his  own  time  for  his  own  time. 
Yet,  in  Every  Man  in  His  Humour  there  is  at  least  one 
character  worthy  to  live  beside  Shakespeare's,  and  that 
is  the  blustering,  boastful  Captain  Bobadill.  He  talks 
very  grandly,  but  when  it  comes  to  fighting,  ha  thinks  it 
best  to  run  away  and  live  to  fight  another  d?  /.  If  only 
to  know  Captain  Bobadill  it  will  repay  you  to  read  Every 
Man  in  His  Humour  when  you  grow  up. 

Here  is  a  scene  in  which  he  shows  his  "humor" 
delightfully : — 

"Bobadill.  I  am  a  gentleman,  and  live  here  obscure,  and  to  myself. 
But  were  I  known  to  Her  Majesty  and  the  Lords — observe  me — 
I  would  undertake,  upon  this  poor  head  and  life,  for  the  public 
benefit  of  the  State,  not  only  to  spare  the  entire  lives  of  her 
subjects  in  general,  but  to  save  the  one  half,  nay,  three  parts, 


"EVERY  MAN  IN  HIS  HUMOUR"        307 

of  her  yearly  charge  in  holding  war^  and  against  what  enemy 
soever.     And  how  would  I  do  it,  think  you? 

Edward  Knowell.    Nay,  I  know  not,  nor  can  I  conceive. 

BoBADiLL.  Why  thus,  sir,  I  would  select  nineteen  more,  to  myself, 
throughout  the  land.  Gentlemen,  they  should  be  of  good  spirit, 
strong  and  able  constitution.  I  would  choose  them  by  an  instinct, 
a  character  that  I  have.  And  I  would  teach  these  nineteen  the 
special  rules,  as  your  punto,^  your  reverso,  your  stoccata,  your 
imbroccata,  your  passada,  your  montanto;  till  they  could  all  play 
very  near,  or  altogether,  as  well  as  myself.  This  done,  say  the 
enemy  were  forty  thousand  strong,  we  twenty  would  come  into 
the  field  the  tenth  of  March,  or  thereabouts,  and  we  would  chal- 
lenge twenty  of  the  enemy.  They  could  not  in  their  honour 
refuse  us.  Well,  we  would  kill  them.  Challenge  twenty  more, 
kill  them ;  twenty  more,  kill  them ;  twenty  more,  kill  them  too. 
And  thus  would  we  kill  every  man  his  twenty  a  day.  That's 
twenty  score.  Twenty  score,  that's  two  hundred.  Two  hundred 
a  day,  five  days  a  thousand.  Forty  thousand;  forty  times  five, 
five  times  forty;  two  hundred  days  kills  them  all  up  by  computa- 
tion. And  this  will  I  venture  my  poor  gentleman-like  carcase  to 
perform,  provided  there  be  no  treason  practised  upon  us,  by  fair 
and  discreet  manhood;  that  is,  civilly  by  the  sword. 

Edward  Knowell.  Why !  are  you  so  sure  of  your  hand.  Captain,  at 
all  times  ? 

BoBADiLL.     Tut !  never  miss  thrust,  upon  my  reputation  with  you. 

Edward  Knowell.  I  would  not  stand  in  Downright's  state  then,  an 
you  meet  him,  for  the  wealth  of  any  one  street  in  London." 

(Knowell  say 3  this  because  Bobadill  and  Downright  have 
had  a  quarrel,  and  Downright  wishes  to  fight  the  Captain.) 

"Bobadill.  Why,  sir,  you  mistake  me.  If  he  were  here  now,  by 
this  welkin,  I  would  not  draw  my  weapon  on  him.  Let  this 
gentleman  do  his  mind;  but  I  will  bastinado  him,  by  the  bright 
sun,  wherever   I  meet  him. 

Matthew.     Faith,  and  I'll  have  a  fling  at  him,  at  my  distance. 

Edward  Knowell.     Ods  so,  look  where  he  is!  yonder  he  goes. 

[Downright  crosses  the  stage. 

Downright.  \^Tiat  peevish  luck  have  I,  I  cannot  meet  with  these 
bragging  rascals? 

*  This  and  the  following  are  names  of  various  passes  and  thrusts  used  in  fenc- 
ing.   Punto  is  a  direct  hit,  reverso  a  backward  blow,  and  so  on. 


308  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

BoBADiLL.     It  is  not  he,  is  it? 

Edward  Knowell,.     Yes,  faith,  it  is  he. 

Matthew.     I'll  be  hanged  then  if  that  were  he. 

Edward  Knowell.     Sir,  keep  your  hanging  good  for  some  greater 

matter,  for  I  assure  you  that  was  he. 
Stephen.     Upon  my  reputation,  it  was  he. 
Bobadill.     Had  I  thought  it  had  been  he,  he  must  not  have  gone  so. 

But  I  can  hardly  be  induced  to  believe  it  was  he  yet. 
Edward  Knowell.     That  I  think,  sir —       [Re-enter  Downright. 

But  see,  he  is  come  again. 
Downright.     O,  Pharaoh's  foot,  have  I  found  you.''     Come,  draw,  to 

your  tools.     Draw,  gipsy,  or  I'll  thrash  you. 
Bobadill.     Gentlemen  of  valour,  I  do  believe  in  thee.     Hear  me — 
Downright.     Draw  your  weapon  then. 
Bobadill.    Tall  man,  I  never  thought  on  it  till  now Body  of  me,  I 

had  a  warrant  of  the  peace  served  on  me,  even  now  as  I  came 

along,  by  a  water-bearer.     This  gentleman  saw  it.  Master  Mat- 
thew. 
Downright.     'Sdeath !  you  will  not  draw  then  ! 

[Downright  disarms  Bobadill  and  beats  him. 
Matthew  runs  array. 
Bobadill.     Hold  !  hold  !  under  thy  favour  forbear  ! 
Downright.     Prate  again,  as  you  like  this,  you   foist^  you.     Your 

consort  is  gone.     Had  he  staid  he  had  shared  with  you,  sir. 

[Exit  Downright. 
Bobadill.     Well,  gentlemen,  bear  witness,  I  was  bound  to  the  peace, 

by  this  good  day. 
Edward  Knowell.     No,  faith,  it's  an  ill  day.  Captain,  never  reckon 

it  other.     But,  say  you  were  bound  to  the  peace,  the  law  allows 

you  to  defend  yourself.     That  will  prove  but  a  poor  excuse. 
Bobadill.     I  cannot  tell,  sir.     I  desire  good  construction  in  fair  sort. 

I   never   sustained   the   like   disgrace,   by   heaven !      Sure   I   was 

struck  with  a  planet  thence,  for  I  had  no  power  to  touch  my 

weapon. 
Edward   Knowell.      Ay,  like   enough,   I   have   heard  of  many  that 

have  been  beaten  under  a  planet.     Go,  get  you  to   a  surgeon ! 

'Slid !  and  these  be  your  tricks,  your  passadoes,  and  your  mon- 

tantos,  I'll  none  of  them." 

When  Every  Man  in  His  Humour  was  acted,  Shake- 
speare took  a  part  in  it.  He  and  Jonson  must  have  met 
each  other  often^  must  have  known  each  other  well.     At 

^  Fraud. 


"EVERY  MAN  IN  HIS  HUMOUR"         309 

the  Mermaid  Tavern  all  the  ^vits  used  to  gather.  For 
there  was  a  kind  of  club  founded  by  Sir  Walter  Raleigh, 
and  here  the  clever  men  of  the  day  met  to  smoke  and  talk, 
and  drink  not  a  little.  And  among  ail  the  clever  men 
Jonson  soon  came  to  be  acknowledged  as  the  king  and 
leader.  We  have  a  pleasant  picture  of  these  friendly 
meetings  by  a  man  who  lived  then.  "^lany  were  the  wit- 
combats,"  he  says,  "betwixt  Shakespeare  and  Ben  Jonson, 
which  two  I  behold  like  a  Spanish  great  gallion  and  an 
English  Man  of  War:  Master  Jonson  (like  the  former) 
was  built  far  higher  in  learning;  solid,  but  slow  in  his  per- 
formances. Shakespeare,  with  the  English  jMan  of  War, 
lesser  in  bulk  but  lighter  in  sailing,  could  turn  with  all 
tides,  tack  about,  and  take  advantage  of  all  winds,  by  the 
quickness  of  his  wit  and  invention."  ^ 
Another  writer  says  in  a  letter  to  Ben, 

"What  things   have  we   seen, 
Done  at  the  Mermaid !  heard  words  that  have  been 
So  nimble,  and  so  full  of  subtile  flame 
As  if  that  every  one  from  whence  they  came 
Had  meant  to  pit  his  whole  wit  in  a  jest."  - 

And  so  we  get  a  picture  of  Ben  lording  it  in  taverns. 
A  gi-eat  good  fellow,  a  stout  fellow,  he  rolls  his  huge  bulk 
about  lajdng  down  the  law. 

So  the  years  went  on.  Big  Ben  wrote  and  fought, 
quarreled  and  made  friends,  drank  and  talked,  living 
always  on  the  verge  of  poverty.  At  length,  in  1603,  the 
great  Queen  Elizabeth  died,  and  James  of  Scotland  came 
to  the  English  throne.  All  the  way  as  he  journeyed  he 
was  greeted  with  rejoicing.  There  were  everywhere 
plays  and  feasts  given  in  his  honor,  and  soon  after  he 
arrived  in  London  a  INIasque  wTitten  by  Jonson  was 
played  before  him.     The  new  king  was  fond  of  such  enter- 

*  Thomas  Fuller,   Worthies. 

*  F.  Beaumont,  Letter  to  Ben  Jonson. 


310  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

tainments.  He  smiled  upon  Master  Ben  Jonson,  and  life 
became  for  him  easier  and  brighter. 

But  shortly  after  this,  Jonson,  with  two  others,  wrote  a 
play  in  which  some  things  were  said  against  the  Scots. 
With  a  Scottish  king  surrounded  by  Scottish  lords,  that 
was  dangerous.  All  three  soon  found  themselves  in 
prison  and  came  near  losing  their  noses  and  ears.  This 
was  not  the  first  time  that  Ben  had  been  in  prison,  for 
soon  after  Every  Man  in  His  Humour  was  acted,  he 
quarreled  for  some  unknown  reason  with  another  actor. 
In  the  foolish  fashion  of  the  day  they  fought  a  duel  over 
it,  and  Ben  killed  the  other  man.  For  this  he  was  seized 
and  put  in  prison,  and  just  escaped  being  hanged.  He 
was  left  off  only  with  the  loss  of  all  his  goods  and  a  brand 
on  the  left  thumb. 

Now  once  more  Jonson  escaped.  When  he  was  set 
free,  his  friends  gave  a  great  feast  to  show  their  joy.  But 
Ben  had  not  learned  his  lesson,  and  at  least  once  again 
he  found  himself  in  prison  because  of  something  he  had 
written. 

But  in  spite  of  these  things  the  King  continued  to 
smile  upon  Ben  Jonson.  He  gave  him  a  pension  and 
made  him  poet  laureate,  and  it  was  now  that  he  began  to 
write  the  Masques  for  which  he  became  famous.  These 
Masques  were  dainty  poetic  little  plays  written  for  the 
court  and  often  acted  by  the  Queen  and  her  ladies.  There 
was  much  singing  and  dancing  in  them,  and  the  dresses  of 
the  actors  were  gorgeous  beyond  description.  And  besides 
this,  while  the  ordinary  stage  was  still  without  any  scenery, 
Inigo  Jones,  the  greatest  architect  in  the  land,  joined  Ben 
Jonson  in  making  his  plays  splendid  by  inventing  scenery 
for  them.  This  scenery  was  beautiful  and  elaborate,  and 
was  sometimes  changed  two  or  three  times  during  the 
play.  One  of  these  plays  called  The  Masque  of  Blackness 
was  acted  by  the  Queen  and  her  ladies  in  1605,  and  when 


'EVERY  MAN  IN  HIS  HUMOUR"         311 

we  read  the  description  of  the  scenery  it  makes  us  wonder 
and  smile  too  at  the  remembrance  of  Wall  and  the  ]Man 
in  the  Moon  of  which  Shakespeare  made  such  fun  a  few 
years  earlier,  and  of  which  you  will  read  in  A  Midsummer 
Niglifs  Dream. 

Besides  his  Masques,  Jonson  wrote  two  tragedies,  and 
a  number  of  comedies,  as  well  as  other  poems.  But  for  a 
great  part  of  his  life,  the  part  that  must  have  been  the 
easiest  and  brightest,  he  wrote  JNIasques  for  the  King  and 
court  and  not  for  the  ordinary  stage.  He  knew  his  own 
power  in  this  kind  of  writing  well,  and  he  was  not  modest. 
"Next  himself,"  he  said,  "only  Fletcher  and  Chapman 
could  make  a  mask."  ^  He  found,  too,  good  friends  among 
the  nobles.  With  one  he  lived  for  five  years,  another  gave 
him  money  to  buy  books,  and  his  library  became  his 
great  joy  and  pride. 

Ben  Jonson  traveled  too.  For  a  time  he  traveled  in 
France  with  Sir  Walter  Raleigh's  son,  while  Sir  Walter 
himself  was  shut  up  in  the  Tower.  But  Jonson's  most 
famous  journey  is  his  walk  to  Scotland.  He  liked  to  be- 
lieve that  he  belonged  to  a  famous  Border  family,  and 
wished  to  visit  the  land  of  his  forefathers.  So  in  the  mid- 
summer of  1618  he  set  out.  We  do  not  know  how  long  he 
took  to  his  lengthy  walk,  but  in  September  he  was  com- 
fortably settled  in  Leith,  being  "worthily  entertained" 
by  all  the  greatest  and  most  learned  men  of  the  day.  He 
had  money  enough  for  all  his  wants,  for  he  was  able  to  give 
a  gold  piece  and  two  and  twenty  shillings  to  another  poet 
less  well  oif  than  himself.  He  was  given  the  freedom  of 
the  city  of  Edinburgh  and  more  than  £200  was  spent  on 
a  great  feast  in  his  honor.  About  Christmas  he  went  to 
pay  a  visit  to  a  well-known  Scottish  poet,  William 
Drummond,  who  lived  in  a  beautiful  house  called  Haw- 
thornden,  a  few  miles  from  Edinburgh.     There  he  stayed 

*  Conversation  of  Ben  Jonson  with  Drummond  of  Hawthornden. 


312  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

two  or  three  weeks,  during  which  time  he  and  his  host  had 
many  a  long  talk  together,  discussing  men  and  books. 
Drummond  wrote  down  all  that  he  could  remember  of  these 
talks,  and  it  is  from  them  that  we  learn  a  good  deal  of  what 
we  know  about  our  poet,  a  good  deal,  perhaps,  not  to  his 
credit.  We  learn  from  them  that  he  was  vain  and  boastful, 
a  loud  talker  and  a  deep  drinker.  Yet  there  is  something 
about  this  big  blustering  Ben  that  we  cannot  help  but  like. 

In  January  sometime,  Jonson  set  his  face  homeward, 
and  reached  London  in  April  or  iSlay,  having  taken  nearly 
a  year  to  pay  his  visit.  He  must  have  been  pleased  with 
his  journey,  for  on  his  return  he  wrote  a  poem  about 
Scotland.  ISTothing  of  it  has  come  down  to  us,  however, 
except  one  line  in  which  he  calls  Edinburgh  "The  heart  of 
Scotland,  Britain's  other  eye." 

The  years  passed  for  Jonson,  if  not  in  wealth,  at  least 
in  such  comfort  as  his  way  of  life  allowed.  For  we  cannot 
ever  think  of  him  as  happy  in  his  own  home  by  his  own 
fireside.  He  is  rather  a  king  in  Clubland  spending  his 
all  freely,  and  taking  no  thought  for  the  morrow.  But 
in  1625  King  James  died,  and  although  the  new  King 
Charles  still  continued  the  poet's  pension,  his  tastes  were 
different  from  those  of  his  father,  and  Jonson  found  him- 
self and  his  IMasques  neglected.  His  health  began  to  fail 
too,  and  his  librarj^,  which  he  dearly  loved,  was  burned, 
together  with  many  of  his  unpublished  manuscripts,  and 
so  he  fell  on  evil  days. 

Forgotten  at  court,  Jonson  began  once  more  to  write 
for  the  stage.  But  now  that  he  had  to  write  for  bread,  it 
almost  seemed  as  if  his  pen  had  lost  its  charm.  The  plays 
he  wrote  added  nothing  to  his  fame.  They  were  badly 
received.  And  so  at  last,  in  trouble  for  to-morrow's  bread, 
without  wife  or  child  to  comfort  him,  he  died  on  8th 
August,  1637. 

He  was  buried  in  Westminster,  and  it  was  intended 


■BEN    AND    Hl.s    HOST   HAD    MAiNV    A    LUNG   TALK    TOGETHKk,    DlSt  USSLNG 
MEN    AND    BOOKS.' 


"EVERY  MAN  IN  HIS  HUMOUR"         313 

to  raise  a  fine  tomb  over  his  grave.  But  times  were  grow- 
ing troublous,  and  the  monument  was  still  lacking,  when 
a  lover  of  the  poet,  Sir  John  Young  of  Great  Milton,  in 
Oxfordshire,  came  to  do  honor  to  his  tomb.  Finding  it 
unmarked,  he  paid  a  workman  Is.  6d.  to  carve  above  the 
poet's  resting-place  the  words,  "O  rare  Ben  Jonson." 
And  perhaps  these  simple  words  have  done  more  to  keep 
alive  the  memory  of  the  poet  than  any  splendid  monument 
could  have  done. 


CHAPTER  XLIX 

JONSON— "THE  SAD  SHEPHERD" 

AiiTHOUGH  Ben  Jonson's  days  ended  sadly,  although 
his  later  plays  showed  failing  powers,  he  left  behind  him 
unfinished  a  Masque  called  The  Sad  Shepherd  which  is 
perhaps  more  beautiful  and  more  full  of  music  than  any- 
thing he  ever  wrote.  For  Ben's  charm  did  not  lie  in  the 
music  of  his  words  but  in  the  strength  of  his  drawing  of 
character.  As  another  poet  has  said  of  him,  "Ben  as  a 
rule — a  rule  which  is  proved  by  the  exception — was  one 
of  the  singers  who  could  not  sing;  though,  like  Dry  den, 
he  could  intone  most  admirably."  ^ 

The  Sad  Shepherd  is  a  tale  of  Robin  Hood.  Here 
once  more  we  find  an  old  story  being  used  again,  for  we 
have  already  heard  of  Robin  Hood  m  the  ballads.  Robin 
Hood  makes  a  great  feast  to  all  the  shepherds  and 
shepherdesses  round  about.  All  are  glad  to  come,  save 
one  iEglamon,  the  Sad  Shepherd,  whose  love,  Earine,  has, 
he  believes,  been  drowned.  But  later  in  the  play  we 
learn  that  Earine  is  not  dead,  but  that  a  wicked  witch. 
Mother  Maudlin,  has  enchanted  her,  and  shut  her  up  in  a 
tree.  She  had  done  this  in  order  to  force  Earine  to  give 
up  ^glamon,  her  true  lover,  and  marry  her  own  wretched 
son  Lorel. 

When  the  play  begins,  ^glamon  passes  over  the  stage 
mourning  for  his  lost  love. 

*  Swinburne. 
314 


"THE  SAD  SHEPHERD"  315 

"Here  she  was  wont  to  go !  and  here !  and  here ! 
Just  where  those  daisies,  pinks,  and  violets  grow. 
The  world  may  find  the  spring  by  following  her, 
For  other  print  her  airy  steps  ne'er  left. 
Her  treading  would  not  bend  a  blade  of  grass, 
Or  shake  the  downy  blow-ball  from  his  stalk ! 
But  like  the  soft  west  wind  she  shot  along. 
And  where  she  went  the  flowers  took  thickest  root — 
As  she  had  sowed  them  with  her  odorous  foot." 

Robin  Hood  has  left  Maid  Marian,  Friar  Tuck,  Little 
John,  and  all  his  merry  men  to  hunt  the  deer  and  make 
ready  the  feast.    And  Tuck  says : 

"And  I,  the  chaplain,  here  am  left  to  be 
Steward  to-day,  and  charge  you  all  in  fee. 
To  don  your  liveries,  see  the  bower  dressed, 
And  fit  the  fine  devices  for  the  feast." 

So  some  make  ready  the  bower,  the  tables  and  the 
seats,  while  JNIaid  JNIarian,  Little  John  and  others  set  out 
to  hunt.  Presently  they  return  successful,  having  killed, 
a  fine  stag.  Robin,  too,  comes  home,  and  after  loving 
greetings,  listens  to  the  tale  of  the  hunt.  Then  Marian 
tells  how,  when  the  huntsmen  cut  up  the  stag,  they  threw 
the  bone  called  the  raven's  bone  to  one  that  sat  and 
croaked  for  it. 

"Now  o'er  head  sat  a  raven. 
On  a  sere  bough,  a  grown  great  bird,  and  hoarse ! 
Who,  all   the  while  the  deer  was   breaking  up 
So  croaked  and  cried  for  it,  as  all  the  huntsmen. 
Especially  old  Scathlock,  thought  it  ominous; 
Swore  it  was   Mother  Maudlin,  whom  he  met 
At  the  day-dawn,  just  as  he  roused  the  deer 
Out  of  his  lair." 

Mother  IVIaudlin  was  a  wretched  old  witch,  and  Scath- 
lock says  he  is  yet  more  sure  that  the  raven  was  she, 
because  in  her  own  form  he  has  just  seen  her  broiling  the 
raven's    bone    by    the    fire,    sitting    "In    the    chimley-nuik 


316  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

within."  While  the  talk  went  on  Maid  Marian  had  gone 
away.  Now  she  returns  and  begins  to  quarrel  with  Robin 
Hood.  Venison  is  much  too  good  for  such  folk  as  he  and 
his  men,  she  says;  "A  starved  mutton  carcase  would 
better  fit  their  palates,"  and  she  orders  Scathlock  to  take 
the  venison  to  Mother  Maudlin.  Those  around  can 
scarce  believe  their  ears,  for 

"Robin  and  his  Marian  are  the  sum  and  talk 
Of  all  that  breathe  here  in  the  green-wood  walk." 

Such  is  their  love  for  each  other.  They  are  "The 
turtles  of  the  wood,"  "The  billing  pair."  No  one  is  more 
astonished  than  Robin  Hood,  as  he  cries: 

"I  dare  not  trust  the  faith  of  mine  own  senses, 
I  fear  mine  eyes  and  ears:  this  is  not  Marian! 
Nor  am  I  Robin  Hood !     I  pray  you  ask  her. 
Ask  her,  good  shepherds,  ask  her  all  for  me: 
Or  rather  ask  yourselves,  if  she  be  she. 
Or  I  be  I." 

But  Maid  JNIarian  only  scolds  the  more,  and  at  last 
goes  away  leaving  the  others  in  sad  bewilderment.  Of 
course  this  was  not  Maid  IMarian  at  all,  but  Mother 
Maudlin,  the  old  witch,  who  had  taken  her  form  in  order  to 
make  mischief. 

Meanwhile  the  real  Maid  Marian  discovers  that  the 
venison  has  been  sent  away  to  IMother  Maudlin's.  With 
tears  in  her  eyes  she  declares  that  she  gave  no  such  orders, 
and  Scathlock  is  sent  to  bring  it  back. 

When  Mother  IMaudlin  comes  to  thank  Maid  Marian 
for  her  present,  she  is  told  that  no  such  present  was  ever 
intended,  and  so  she  in  anger  curses  the  cook,  casting  spells 
upon  him: 

"The  spit  stand  still,  no  broches  turn 
Before  the  fire,  but  let  it  burn. 
Both  sides  and  haunches,  till  the  whole 
Converted  be  into  one  coal. 


"THE  SAD  SHEPHERD"  317 

The  pain   we   call   St.   Anton's  fire. 
The  gout,  or  what  we  can  desire. 
To  cramp  a  cook  in  every  limb. 
Before  they  dine  yet,  seize  on  him." 

Soon  Friar  Tuck  comes  in.     "Hear  you  how,"  he  says, 

"Poor  Tom  the  cook  is  taken!  all  his  joints 
Do  crack,  as  if  his  limbs  were  tied  with  points. 
His  whole  frame  slackens ;  and  a  kind  of  rack. 
Runs  down  along  the  spindils  of  his  back; 
A  gout,  or  cramp,  now  seizeth  on  his  head. 
Then  falls  into  his  feet;  his  knees  are  lead; 
And  he  can  stir  his  either  hand  no  more 
Than  a  dead  stump,  to  his  office,  as  before." 

He  is  bewitched,  that  is  certain.  And  certain  too  it  is 
that  Mother  Maudhn  has  done  it.  So  Robin  and  his  men 
set  out  to  hunt  for  her,  while  Friar  Tuck  and  Much  the 
Miller's  son  stay  to  look  after  the  dinner  in  the  poor  cook's 
stead.  Robin  soon  meets  JNIother  JNIaudlin  who  has  again 
taken  the  form  of  INIaid  Marian.  But  this  time  Robin  sus- 
pects her.  He  seizes  the  witch  by  her  enchanted  belt. 
It  breaks,  and  she  comes  back  to  her  own  shape,  and 
Robin  goes  off,  leaving  her  cursing. 

Mother  Maudlin  then  calls  for  Puck-hairy,  her  goblin. 
He  appears,  crying: 

"At  your  beck,  madam." 
"O  Puck  my  goblin !     I  have  lost  my  belt, 
The  strong  thief,  Robin  Outlaw,  forced  it  from  me," 

wails  Mother  Maudlin.     But  Puck-hairj'^  pays  little  atten- 
tion to  her  complaints. 

"They  are  other  clouds  and  blacker  threat  you,  dame; 
You  must  be  wary,  and  ])ull  in  your  sails, 
And  yield  unto  the  weather  of  the  tempest. 
You  think  your  power's  infinite  as  your  malice. 
And  would  do  all  your  anger  prompts  you  to; 
But  you  must  wait  occasions,  and  obey  them: 
Sail  in  an  egg-shell,  make  a  straw  your  mast, 


318  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

A  cobweb  all  your  cloth,  and  pass  unseen. 

Till  you  have  'scaped  the  rocks  that  are  about  you. 
Maudlin.  What  rocks  about  me  ? 
Puck.        I  do  love,  madam, 

To  show  you  all  your  dangers — when  you're  past  them ! 

Come,  follow  me,  I'll  once  more  be  your  pilot. 

And  you  shall  thank  me. 
Maudlin.  Lucky,  my  loved  Goblin !" 

And  here  the  play  breaks  off  suddenly,  for  Jonson  died 
and  left  it  so.  It  was  finished  by  another  writer  ^  later  on, 
but  with  none  of  Jonson's  skill,  and  reading  the  continua- 
tion we  feel  that  all  the  interest  is  gone.  However,  you 
will  be  glad  to  know  that  everything  comes  right.  The 
good  people  get  happily  manned  and  all  the  bad  people 
become  good,  even  the  wicked  old  witch,  Mother  Maudlin. 

» F.  G.  Waldron. 


CHAPTER  L 

RALEIGH— "THE  REVENGE" 

Some  of  you  may  have  seen  a  picture  of  a  brown-faced 
sailor  sitting  by  the  seashore,  telHng  stories  of  travel  and 
adventure  to  two  boys.  The  one  boj^  lies  upon  the  sand 
with  his  chin  in  his  hands  listening  but  carelessly,  the  other 
with  his  hands  clasped  about  his  knees  listens  eagerly. 
His  face  is  rapt,  his  eyes  the  eyes  of  a  poet  and  a  dreamer. 
This  picture  is  called  The  Boyhood  of  Raleigh,  and  was 
painted  by  one  of  our  great  painters.  Sir  John  ]\Iillais.  In 
it  he  pictures  a  scene  that  w^e  should  like  to  believe  was 
common  in  Sir  Walter  Raleigh's  boyhood,  but  we  cannot 
tell  if  it  were  really  so  or  not.  Beyond  the  fact  that  he 
was  born  in  a  white-walled  thatched-roofed  farmhouse, 
near  Budleigh  Salterton  in  Devonshire,  about  the  year  1552, 
we  know  nothing  of  Raleigh's  childhood.  But  from  the 
rising  ground  near  Hayes  Barton,  the  house  in  which 
he  w^as  born,  we  catch  sight  of  the  sea.  It  seems  not 
too  much  to  believe  that  many  a  time  Walter  and  his 
brother  Carew,  wandered  through  the  woods  and  over  the 
common  the  two  and  a  half  miles  to  the  bay.  So  that 
from  his  earliest  days  Walter  Raleigh  breathed  in  a  love 
and  knowledge  of  the  sea.  We  like  to  think  these  things, 
but  we  can  only  make  believe  to  ourselves  as  Millais  did 
when  he  went  to  Budleigh  Salterton  and  painted  that 
picture. 

When  still  quite  a  boy,  Walter  Raleigh  went  to  Oriel 
College,  Oxford,  but  we  know  nothing  of  what  he  did  there, 

319 


320  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

and  the  next  we  hear  of  him  is  that  he  is  fighting  for  the 
Huguenots  in  France.  How  long  he  remained  in  France, 
and  what  he  did  there  beyond  this  fighting,  we  do  not  know. 
But  this  we  know,  that  when  he  went  to  France  he  was 
a  mere  boy,  with  no  knowledge  of  fighting,  no  knowledge 
of  the  world.  When  he  left  he  was  a  man  and  a  tried 
soldier,  a  captain  and  leader  of  men. 

When  next  we  hear  of  Raleigh  he  is  in  Ireland  fighting 
the  rebels.  There  he  did  some  brave  deeds,  some  cruel 
deeds,  there  he  lived  to  the  full  the  life  of  a  soldier  as  it  was 
in  those  rough  times,  making  all  Ireland  ring  with  his 
name.  But  although  Raleigh  had  won  for  himself  a  name 
among  soldiers,  he  was  as  yet  unknown  to  the  Queen;  his 
fortune  was  still  unmade. 

You  have  all  heard  the  story  of  how  Raleigh  first  met 
the  Queen.  The  first  notice  we  have  of  this  story  is  in  a 
book  from  which  I  have  already  quoted  more  than  once — 
The  Worthies  of  England. 

"This  Captain  Raleigh,"  says  Fuller,  "coming  out  of 
Ireland  to  the  English  Court  in  good  habit  (his  clothes 
being  then  a  considerable  part  of  his  estate),  found  the 
Queen  walking,  till,  meeting  with  a  plashy  place,  she 
seemed  to  scruple  going  thereon.  Presently  Raleigh  cast 
and  spread  his  new  plush  cloak  on  the  ground,  whereon 
the  Queen  trod  gently,  rewarding  him  afterwards  with 
many  suits  for  his  so  free  and  seasonable  tender  of  so  fair 
a  foot  cloth." 

Thomas  Fuller,  who  wrote  the  book  in  which  this  story, 
is  found,  was  only  a  boy  of  ten  when  Raleigh  died,  so  he 
could  not  have  known  the  great  man  himself,  but  he  must 
have  heard  many  stories  about  him  from  those  who  had, 
and  we  need  not  disbelieve  this  one.  It  is  one  of  those  things 
which  might  very  well  have  happened  even  if  it  did  not. 

And  whether  Raleigh  first  came  into  Queen  Elizabeth's 
notice  in  this  manner  or  not,  after  he  did  become  known  to 


"THE  REVENGE"  321 

her,  he  soon  rose  in  her  favor.  He  rose  so  quickly 
that  he  ahiiost  feared  the  giddy  height  to  which  he 
rose.  According  to  another  story  of  Fuller's,  "This  made 
him  write  in  a  glasse  window,  obvious  to  the  Queen's 
eye, 

'Fain  would  I  climb,  yet  fear  I  to  fall.' 

"Her  Majesty,  either  espying  or  being  shown  it,  did 
underwrite : 

'If  thy  heart  fails  thee,  climb  not  at  all.' 

"However  he  at  last  climbed  up  by  the  stairs  of  his 
own  desert." 

Honors  and  favors  were  heaped  upon  Raleigh,  and 
from  being  a  poor  soldier  and  country  gentleman  he  be- 
came rich  and  powerful,  the  lord  of  lands  in  five  counties, 
and  Captain  of  the  Queen's  Own  Body-Guard.  Haughty 
of  manner,  splendid  in  dress,  loving  jewels  more  than  even 
a  woman  does,  Raleigh  became  as  fine  a  courtier  as  he  was 
a  brave  soldier.  But  soldier  though  Raleigh  was,  courtier 
though  he  was,  loving  ease  and  wealth  and  fine  clothes,  he 
was  at  heart  a  sailor  and  adventurer,  and  the  sea  he  had 
loved  as  a  boy  called  to  him. 

Like  many  another  of  his  age  Raleigh,  hearing  the  call 
of  the  waves  ever  in  his  ears,  felt  the  desire  to  explore  tug 
at  his  heart-strings.  For  in  those  days  America  had 
been  discovered,  and  the  quest  for  the  famous  North-West 
passage  had  begun.  And  Raleigh  longed  to  set  forth  with 
other  men  to  conquer  new  worlds,  to  find  new  paths 
across  the  waves.  But  above  all  he  longed  to  fight  the 
Spaniards,  who  were  the  great  sea  kings  of  those  days. 
Raleigh  however  could  not  be  a  courtier  and  a  sailor  at  one 
and  the  same  time.  He  was  meanwhile  high  in  the  Queen's 
favor,  and  she  would  not  let  him  go  from  her.  So  all 
that  Raleigh  could  do,  was  to  venture  his  money,  and  fit 


322  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

out  a  ship  to  which  he  gave  his  own  name.  This  he  sent 
to  sail  along  with  others  under  the  command  of  his  step- 
brother Sir  Humphrey  Gilbert,  who  was  setting  out  upon 
a  voyage  of  discovery.  It  was  on  this  voyage  that  Sir 
Humphrey  found  and  claimed  Newfoundland  as  an  English 
possession,  setting  up  there  "the  Arms  of  England  in- 
graven  in  lead  and  infixed  upon  a  pillar  of  wood."  ^  But 
the  expedition  was  unfortunate,  most  of  the  men  and  ships 
were  lost,  Sir  Humphrey  himself  being  drowned  on  his  way 
home.  He  was  brave  and  fearless  to  the  last.  "We  are 
as  near  to  Heaven  by  sea  as  by  land,"  he  said,  a  short 
time  before  his  ship  went  down.  One  vessel  only  "in 
great  torment  of  weather  and  peril  of  drowning"^  reached 
home  safely,  "all  the  men  tired  with  the  tediousness  of  so 
unprofitable  a  voyage  to  their  seeming."  Yet  though  they 
knew  it  not  they  had  helped  to  lay  the  foundation  of 
Greater  Britain. 

Nothing  daunted  by  this  loss,  six  months  later  Raleigh 
sent  out  another  expedition.  This  time  it  was  to  the  land 
south  of  Newfoundland  that  the  ships  took  their  way. 
There  they  set  up  the  arms  of  England,  and  named  the 
new  possession  Virginia  in  honor  of  the  virgin  Queen. 
This  expedition  was  little  more  successful  than  Sir 
Humphrey  Gilbert's,  but  nothing  seemed  to  discourage 
Raleigh.  He  was  bent  on  founding  a  colony,  and  again 
and  yet  again  he  sent  out  ships  and  men,  spending  all  the 
wealth  which  the  Queen  heaped  upon  him  in  trying  to 
extend  her  dominions  beyond  the  seas.  Hope  was  strong 
within  him.  "I  shall  yet  live  to  see  it  an  English  nation," 
he  said. 

And  while  Raleigh's  captains  tried  to  found  a  new 
England  in  the  New  World,  Raleigh  himself  worked  at 
home  to  bring  order  into  the  vast  estates  the  Queen  had 
given  to  him  in  Ireland.     This  land  had  belonged  to  the 

^  Hakluyt's  Voyages.  ^  The  same. 


THE  REVENGE"  323 

rebel  Earl  of  Desmond.  At  one  time  no  doubt  it  had  been 
fertile,  but  rebellion  and  war  had  laid  it  waste.  "The 
land  was  so  barren  both  of  man  and  beast  that  whosoever 
did  travel  from  one  end  of  all  INIunster  ....  he  should 
not  meet  man,  woman,  or  child,  saving  in  cities  or  towns, 
nor  yet  see  any  beast,  save  foxes,  wolves,  or  the  ravening 
beasts.'*  And  barren  and  desolate  as  it  was  when  Raleigh 
received  it,  it  soon  became  known  as  the  best  tilled  land 
in  all  the  country-side.  For  he  brought  workers  and 
tenants  from  his  old  Devon  home  to  take  the  place  of  the 
beggared  or  slain  Irish.  He  introduced  new  and  better 
ways  of  tilling,  and  also  he  brought  to  Ireland  a  strange 
new  root.  For  it  is  interesting  to  remember  that  it  was  in 
Raleigh's  Irish  estates  that  potatoes  were  first  grown  in 
our  Islands. 

Raleigh  took  a  great  interest  in  these  estates,  so  per- 
haps it  was  not  altogether  a  hardship  to  him,  finding  him- 
self out  of  favor  with  his  Queen,  to  go  to  Ireland  for  a 
time.  And  although  they  had  known  each  other  before, 
it  was  then  that  his  friendship  with  Spenser  began. 
Spenser  read  his  Faery  Queen  to  Raleigh,  and  perhaps 
Raleigh  read  to  Spenser  his  poem  Cynthia  written  in 
honor  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  But  of  that  poem  nearly 
all  has  been  lost.  Elizabeth  was  not  as  yet  very  angry 
with  Raleigh,  still  he  felt  the  loss  of  her  favor,  for  Spenser 
tells  us: — 

"His   song  was   all   a  lamentable  lay, 
Of    great   unkindness    and    of   usage    hard, 
Of  Cynthia,  the  Lady  of  the  Sea, 
Which  from  her  presence  faultless  him  debarred. 
And  ever  and  anon  with  singults  ^  rife, 
He  cried  out,  to  make  his  undersong, 
'Ah !  my  love's  Queen,  and  goddess  of  my  life. 
Who   shal  me  pity  when  thou  doest  me  wrong?' "  ^ 

*Sobs.  ^  "Colin  Clout's  come   home   again." 


324  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

But  Raleigh  soon  decided  to  return  to  court,  and  per- 
suaded Spenser 

"To  wend  with  him  his  Cynthia  to  see. 
Whose  grace  was  great  and  bounty  most  rewardful."  ^ 

You  know  how  Spenser  was  received  and  how  he  fared. 
But  Raleigh  himself  after  he  had  introduced  his  friend  did 
not  sta}?^  long  at  court.  Quarrels  with  his  rivals  soon 
drove  him  forth  again. 

It  was  soon  after  this  that  he  published  the  first  writ- 
ing which  gives  him  a  claim  to  the  name  of  author.  This 
was  an  account  of  the  fight  between  a  little  ship  called 
the  Eevenge  and  a  Spanish  fleet. 

Although  with  the  destruction  of  the  Invincible 
Armada  the  sea  power  of  Spain  had  been  crippled,  it  had 
not  been  utterly  broken,  and  still  whenever  Spanish  and 
English  ships  met  on  the  seas,  there  was  sure  to  be  battle. 
It  being  known  that  a  fleet  of  Spanish  treasure-ships 
would  pass  the  Azores,  islands  in  mid-Atlantic,  a  fleet  of 
English  ships  under  Lord  Thomas  Howard  was  sent  to 
attack  them.  But  the  English  ships  had  to  wait  so  long 
at  the  Azores  for  the  coming  of  the  Spanish  fleet  that  the 
news  of  the  intended  attack  reached  Spain,  and  the 
Spaniards  sent  a  strong  fleet  to  help  and  protect  their 
treasure-ships.  The  English  in  turn  hearing  of  this  sent 
a  swift  little  boat  to  warn  Lord  Thomas.  The  warning 
arrived  almost  too  late.  Many  of  the  Englishmen  were 
sick  and  ashore,  and  before  all  could  be  gathered  the  fleet 
of  fifty-three  great  Spanish  ships  was  upon  them.  Still 
Lord  Thomas  managed  to  slip  away.  Only  the  last  ship, 
the  Revenge,  commanded  by  the  Rear- Admiral  Sir  Richard 
Grenville,  lost  the  wind  and  was  caught  between  two 
great  squadrons  of  the  Spanish.  Whereupon  Sir  Richard 
"was  persuaded,"   Sir  Walter  says,   "by  the  Master  and 

^CoUn  Clout. 


"THE  REVENGE"  325 

others  to  cut  his  main-sail,  and  cast  about,  and  to  trust 
to  the  saihng  of  the  ship.  .  .  .  But  Sir  Richard  utterly 
refused  to  turn  from  the  enemy,  alleging  that  he  would 
rather  choose  to  die,  than  to  dishonour  himself,  his  country, 
and  her  INIajesty's  ship,  persuading  his  company  that  he 
would  pass  through  the  two  squadrons,  in  despite  of  them." 

For  a  little  time  it  seemed  as  if  Sir  Richard's  daring 
might  succeed.  But  a  great  ship,  the  San  Philip,  came 
between  him  and  the  wind  "and  coming  towards  him,  be- 
calmed his  sails  in  such  sort,  as  the  ship  could  neither  make 
way,  nor  feel  the  helm :  so  huge  and  high-carged  ^  was 
the  Spanish  ship.  .  .  .  The  fight  thus  beginning  at  three 
of  the  clock  of  the  afternoon  continued  very  terrible  all 
that  evening.  But  the  great  San  Philip  having  received 
the  lower  tier  of  the  Revenge,  discharged  with  cross-bar 
shot,  shifted  herself  with  all  diligence  from  her  sides, 
utterly  misliking  her  first  entertainment.  .  .  .  The 
Spanish  ships  were  filled  with  companies  of  soldiers,  in 
some  two  hundred,  besides  the  mariners;  in  some  five, 
in  others  eight  hundred.  In  ours  there  were  none  at  all 
beside  the  mariners,  but  the  servants  of  the  commanders 
and  some  few  voluntaiy  gentlemen  only."  And  yet  the 
Spaniards  "were  still  repulsed,  again  and  again,  and  at  all 
times  beaten  back  into  their  own  ships,  or  into  the  seas." 

In  the  beginning  of  the  fight  one  little  store  ship  of  the 
English  fleet  hovered  near.  It  was  small  and  of  no  use  in 
fighting.  Now  it  came  close  to  the  Revenge  and  the 
Captain  asked  Sir  Richard  what  he  should  do,  and  "Sir 
Richard  bid  him  save  himself,  and  leave  him  to  his  fortune." 
So  the  gallant  Revenge  was  left  to  fight  alone.  For  fifteen 
hours  the  battle  lasted,  Sir  Richard  himself  was  sorely 
wounded,  and  when  far  into  the  night  the  fighting  ceased, 
two  of  the  Spanish  vessels  were  sunk  "and  in  many  other 
of  the   Spanish  ships  great  slaughter  was  made."     "But 

*  The  meaning  of  the  word   is   uncertain.     It  may  be  high-charged. 


326  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  Spanish  ships  which  attempted  to  board  the  Revenge, 
as  they  were  wounded  and  beaten  off,  so  always  others 
came  in  their  places,  she  liaving  never  less  than  two 
mighty  galleons  by  her  sides  and  aboard  her.  So  that  ere 
the  morning,  from  three  of  the  clock  the  day  before,  there 
had  fifteen  several  Armadas  ^  assailed  her.  And  all  so  ill 
approved  their  entertainment,  as  they  were,  by  the  break  of 
day,  far  more  willing  to  hearken  to  a  composition^  than 
hastily  to  make  any  more  assaults  or  entries. 

"But  as  the  day  increased  so  our  men  decreased.  And  as 
the  light  grew  more  and  more,  by  so  much  more  grew  our 
discomforts.  For  none  appeared  in  sight  but  enemies,  sav- 
ing one  small  ship  called  the  Pilgnm,  commanded  by  Jacob 
Whiddon,  who  hovered  all  night  to  see  the  success.  But 
in  the  morning  bearing  with  the  Revenge,  she  was  hunted 
like  a  hare  amongst  many  ravenous  hounds,  but  escaped. 

"All  the  i^owder  of  the  Revenge  to  the  last  barrel  was 
now  spent,  all  her  pikes  broken,  forty  of  her  best  men  slain, 
and  the  most  part  of  the  rest  hurt.  In  the  beginning  of 
the  fight  she  had  but  one  hundred  free  from  sickness  and 
four  score  and  ten  sick,  laid  in  hold  upon  the  ballast.  A 
small  troop  to  man  such  a  ship,  and  a  weak  garrison  to 
resist  so  mighty  an  army.  By  those  hundred  all  was 
sustained,  the  volleys,  boarding  and  enterings  of  fifteen 
ships  of  war,  besides  those  which  beat  her  at  large. 

"On  the  contrary,  the  Spanish  were  always  supplied 
with  soldiers  brought  from  every  squadron;  all  manner 
of  arms  and  powder  at  will.  Unto  ours  there  remained  no 
comfort  at  all,  no  hope,  no  supply  either  of  ships,  men,  or 
weapons;  the  masts  all  beaten  overboard,  all  her  tackle 
cut  asunder,  her  upper  work  altogether  razed,  and  in  effect 
evened  she  was  with  the  water,  but  the  very  foundation 
of  a  ship,  nothing  being  left  overhead  for  flight  or  defence. 

*  Armada  here  means  merely  a  Spanish  ship  of  war. 

*  An  arrangement  to  cease  fighting  on  both  sides. 


"THE  REVENGE"  327 

"Sir  Richard  finding  himself  in  this  distress  and  un- 
able any  longer  to  make  resistance,  having  endured  in 
this  fifteen  hours'  fight  the  assault  of  fifteen  several 
Armadas,  all  by  turns  aboard  him,  and  by  estimation 
eight  hundred  shot  of  great  artillery  besides  many  assaults 
and  entries;  and  (seeing)  that  himself  and  the  ship  must 
needs  be  possessed  of  the  enemy  who  were  now  all  cast  in 
a  ring  round  about  him,  the  Revenge  not  able  to  move  one 
way  or  another,  but  as  she  was  moved  by  the  waves  and 
billow  of  the  sea,  commanded  the  JVIaster  Gunner,  whom 
he  knew  to  be  a  most  resolute  man,  to  split  and  sink  the 
ship,  that  thereby  nothing  might  remain  of  glory  or 
victory  to  the  Spaniards:  seeing  in  so  many  hours'  fight, 
and  M'ith  so  great  a  navy,  they  were  not  able  to  take  her, 
having  had  fifteen  hours'  time,  above  ten  thousand  men, 
and  fifty  and  three  sail  of  men  of  war  to  perform  it  withal. 
And  (he)  persuaded  the  company,  or  as  many  as  he  could 
induce,  to  yield  themselves  unto  God,  and  to  the  mercy  of 
none  else,  but  as  they  had,  like  valiant  resolute  men, 
repulsed  so  many  enemies,  they  should  not  now  shorten 
the  honour  of  their  nation,  by  prolonging  their  own  lives 
by  a  few  hours,  or  a  few  days.  The  Master  Gunner 
readily  condescended  and  divers  others.  But  the  Captain 
and  the  Master  were  of  another  opinion,  and  besought  Sir 
Richard  to  have  care  of  them,  alleging  that  the  Spaniard 
would  be  as  ready  to  entertain  a  composition  as  they  were 
willing  to  oflPer  the  same.  And  (they  said)  that  there 
being  divers  suflicient  and  valiant  men  yet  living,  and 
whose  wounds  were  not  mortal,  they  might  do  their 
country  and  their  Prince  acceptable  service  hereafter. 
And  whereas  Sir  Richard  alleged  that  the  Spaniards 
should  never  glory  to  have  taken  one  ship  of  her  Majesty, 
seeing  they  had  so  long  and  so  notably  defended  them- 
selves; they  answered  that  the  ship  had  six  foot  water  in 
hold,    three    shot    under    water,    which    were    so    weakly 


328  ENGLISH  LITEKATURE 

stopped  as  with  the  first  working  of  the  sea,  she  must 
needs  sink,  and  was  besides  so  crushed  and  bruised,  as  she 
could  never  be  removed  out  of  the  place. 

"And  as  the  matter  was  thus  in  dispute,  and  Sir 
Richard  refusing  to  hearken  to  any  of  those  reasons,  the 
Master  of  the  Revenge  (while  the  Captain  won  unto  him 
the  greater  party)  was  convoyed  aboard  the  General  Don 
Alfonso  Bafan.  Who  (finding  none  overhasty  to  enter 
the  Revenge  again,  doubting  lest  Sir  Richard  would  have 
blown  them  up  and  himself,  and  perceiving  by  the  report 
of  the  Master  of  the  Revenge  his  dangerous  disposition) 
yielded  that  all  their  lives  should  be  saved,  the  company 
sent  for  England,  and  the  better  sort  to  pay  such  reasonable 
ransom  as  their  estate  would  bear,  and  in  the  mean  season 
to  be  free  from  galley  or  imprisonment.  To  this  he  so 
much  the  better  condescended  as  well,  as  I  have  said,  for 
fear  of  further  loss  and  mischief  to  themselves,  as  also  for 
the  desire  he  had  to  recover  Sir  Richard  Grenville,  whom 
for  his  notable  valour  he  seemed  greatly  to  honour  and 
admire. 

"When  this  answer  was  returned,  and  that  safety  of 
life  was  promised,  the  common  sort  being  now  at  the  end 
of  their  peril  the  most  drew  back  from  Sir  Richard  and  the 
Master  Gunner,  (it)  being  no  hard  matter  to  dissuade  men 
from  death  to  life.  The  Master  Gunner  finding  himself 
and  Sir  Richard  thus  prevented  and  matsered  by  the 
greater  number,  would  have  slain  himself  with  a  sword, 
had  he  not  been  by  force  with-held  and  locked  into  his 
cabin.  Then  the  General  sent  many  boats  aboard  the 
Revenge,  and  divers  of  our  men  fearing  Sir  Richard's 
disposition,  stole  away  aboard  the  General  and  other  ships. 
Sir  Richard  thus  over-matched  was  sent  unto  by  Alfonso 
Ba9an  to  remove  out  of  the  Revenge,  the  ship  being  marvel- 
lous unsavoury,  filled  with  blood  and  bodies  of  dead,  and 
wounded  men,  like  a  slaughterhouse. 


"THE  REVENGE"  329 

"Sir  Richard  answered  he  might  do  with  his  body 
what  he  hst,  for  he  esteemed  it  not.  And  as  he  was 
carried  out  of  the  ship  he  swooned,  and  reviving  again 
desired  the  company  to  pray  for  him. 

"The  General  used  Sir  Richard  with  all  humanity,  and 
left  nothing  unattempted  that  tended  to  his  recovery, 
highly  commending  his  valour  and  worthiness,  and  gi-eatly 
bewailing  the  danger  in  which  he  was,  being  unto  them  a 
rare  spectacle,  and  a  resolution  seldom  approved,  to  see 
one  ship  turn  toward  so  many  enemies,  to  endure  the 
charge  and  boarding  of  so  many  huge  Armadas,  and  to 
resist  and  repel  the  assaults  and  entries  of  so  many  soldiers. 

"There  were  slain  and  drowned  in  this  fight  well 
near  one  thousand  of  the  enemies,  and  two  special  com- 
manders ....  besides  divers  others  of  special  account. 

"Sir  Richard  died  as  it  is  said,  the  second  or  third  day 
aboard  the  General  and  was  by  them  greatly  bewailed. 
What  became  of  his  body,  whether  it  were  buried  in  the 
sea  or  on  the  land,  we  know  not.  The  comfort  that  re- 
maineth  to  his  friends  is,  that  he  hath  ended  his  life 
honourably  in  respect  of  the  reputation  won  to  his  nation 
and  country  and  of  the  same  to  his  posterity,  and  that 
being  dead,  he  hath  not  outlived  his  own  honour." 

This  gallant  fight  of  the  little  Bevenge  against  the 
huge  navy  of  Spain  is  one  of  the  great  things  in  the  story 
of  the  sea;  that  is  why  I  have  chosen  it  out  of  all  that  Sir 
Walter  wrote  to  give  j^ou  as  a  specimen  of  English  prose 
in  Queen  Elizabeth's  time.  As  long  as  brave  deeds  are 
remembered,  it  will  be  told  how  Sir  Richard  Grenville 
"walled  round  with  wooden  castles  on  the  wave"  bid 
defiance  to  the  might  and  pride  of  Spain,  "hoping  the 
splendour  of  some  lucky  star."  ^  The  fight  was  a  hopeless 
one  from  the  very  beginning,  but  it  was  as  gallant  a  one 
as  ever  took  place.     Even  his  foes  were  forced  to  admire 

*  Gervase   Markhani. 


330  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Sir  Richard's  dauntless  courage,  for  when  he  was  carried 
aboard  Don  Alfonso's  ship  "the  captains  and  gentlemen 
went  to  visit  him,  and  to  comfort  him  in  his  hard  fortune, 
wondering  at  his  courageous  stout  heart  for  that  he  showed 
not  any  sign  of  faintness  nor  changing  cf  colour.  But 
feeling  the  hour  of  death  to  approach,  he  spake  these 
words  in  Spanish  and  said,  'Here  die  I,  Richard  Grenville, 
with  a  joyful  and  quiet  mind,  for  that  I  have  ended  my 
life  as  a  true  soldier  ought  to  do,  and  hath  fought  for  his 
country,  Queen,  religion,  and  honour,  whereby  my  soul 
most  joyful  departeth  out  of  this  body,  and  shall  always 
leave  behind  it  an  everlasting  fame  of  a  valiant  and  true 
soldier  that  hath  done  his  duty  as  he  was  bound  to  do.' 
When  he  had  finished  these  or  other  like  words  he  gave 
up  the  Ghost,  with  great  and  stout  courage,  and  no  man 
could  perceive  any  true  signs  of  heaviness  in  him."  ^ 

Poets  of  the  time  made  ballads  of  this  fight.  Raleigh 
wrote  of  it  as  yo;i  have  just  read,  and  in  our  own  day  the 
great  laureate  Lord  Tennj^son  made  the  story  live  again 
in  his  poem  Tlie  Revenge.  Tennyson  tells  how  after  the 
fight  a  great  storm  arose: 

"And  or  ever  that  evening  ended  a  great  gale  blew 
And  a  wave  like  the  wave  that  is  raised  by  an  earthquake  grew, 
Till  it  smote  on  their  hulls  and  their  sails  and  their  masts  and  their  flags, 
And  the  whole  sea  plunged  and  fell  on  the  shot-shatter'd  navy  of  Spain. 
And  the  little  Revenge  herself  went  down  by  the  island  crags 
To  be  lost  evermore  in  the  laElvi." 

So  neither  the  gallant  captain  nor  his  little  ship  were 
led  home  to  the  triumph  of  Spain. 

It  is  interesting  to  remember  that  had  it  not  been  for 
the  caprice  of  the  Queen,  Raleigh  himself  would  have  been 
in  Sir  Richard  Grenville's  place.  For  he  had  orders  to  go 
on  this  voyage,  but  at  the  last  moment  he  was  recalled, 
and  Sir  Richard  was  sent  instead. 

'  Linschoten's  Large  Testimony  in  Hakluyt's   Voyages. 


CHAPTER  LI 

RALEIGH— "THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  WORLD" 

Soon  after  the  fight  with  the  Revenge,  the  King  of  Spain 
made  ready  more  ships  to  attack  England.  Raleigh  then 
persuaded  Queen  Elizabeth  that  it  would  be  well  to  be 
beforehand  with  the  Spaniards  and  attack  their  ships  at 
Panama.  So  to  this  end  a  fleet  was  gathered  together. 
But  the  Queen  sent  only  two  ships,  various  gentlemen 
provided  others,  and  Raleigh  spent  every  penny  of  his 
own  that  he  could  gather  in  fitting  out  the  remainder. 
He  was  himself  chosen  Admiral  of  the  Fleet.  So  at  length 
he  started  on  an  expedition  after  his  own  heart. 

But  he  had  not  gone  far,  when  a  swift  messenger  was 
sent  to  him  ordering  him  to  return.  Unwillingly  he 
obeyed,  and  when  he  reached  home  he  was  at  once  sent  to 
the  Tower  a  prisoner.  This  time  the  Queen  was  really 
angry  with  him;  in  her  eyes  Raleigh's  crime  was  a  deep 
one,  for  he  had  fallen  in  love  with  one  of  her  own  maids  of 
honor,  Mistress  Elizabeth  Throgmorton,  and  the  Queen 
had  discovered  it.  Elizabeth  allowed  none  of  her 
favorites  to  love  any  one  but  herself,  so  she  punished 
Raleigh  by  sending  him  to  the  Tower. 

Mistress  Throgmorton  was  also  made  a  prisoner.  After 
a  time,  however,  both  prisoners  were  set  free,  though  they 
were  banished  from  court.  They  married  and  went  to 
live  at  Sherborne  where  Raleigh  busied  himself  improving 
his  beautiful  house  and  laying  out  the  garden.  For 
though  set  free  Raleigh  was  still  in  disgrace.    But  we  may 

331 


332  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

believe  that  he  found  some  recompense  for  his  Queen's 
anger  in  his  wife's  love. 

In  his  wife  Raleigh  found  a  life-long  comrade. 
Through  all  good  and  evil  fortune  she  stood  by  him,  she 
shared  his  hopes  and  desires,  she  sold  her  lands  to  give  him 
money  for  his  voyages,  she  shared  imprisonment  with  him 
when  it  came  again,  and  after  his  death  she  never  ceased 
to  mourn  his  loss.  How  Raleigh  loved  her  in  return  we 
learn  from  the  few  letters  written  to  her  which  have  come 
down  to  us.  She  is  "Sweetheart"  "Dearest  Bess,"  and  he 
tells  to  her  his  troubles  and  his  hopes  as  to  a  staunch  and 
true  friend. 

We  cannot  follow  Raleigh  through  all  his  restless  life, 
it  was  so  full  and  varied  that  the  story  of  it  would  fill  a 
long  book.  He  loved  fighting  and  adventure,  he  loved 
books  too,  and  soon  we  find  him  back  in  London  meeting 
Ben  Jonson  and  Shakespeare,  and  all  the  great  writers  of 
the  age  at  the  jMermaid  Club.  For  Raleigh  knew  all  the 
great  men  of  his  day,  among  them  Sir  Robert  Bruce 
Cotton  of  whom  you  heard  in  connection  with  the  adven- 
tures of  the  Beowulf  JSIanuscript. 

But  soon,  in  spite  of  his  love  for  his  wife,  in  spite  of 
his  interest  in  his  beautiful  home,  in  spite  of  his  many 
friends,  Raleigh's  restless  spirit  again  drove  him  to  the  sea, 
and  he  set  out  on  a  voyage  of  discovery  and  adventure. 
This  time  he  sailed  to  Guiana  in  South  America,  in  search 
of  Eldorado,  the  fabled  city  of  gold.  And  this  time  he  was 
not  called  back  by  the  Queen,  but  although  he  reached 
South  America  and  sailed  up  the  Orinoco  and  the  Caroni 
he  "returned  a  beggar  and  withered"  ^  without  having 
found  the  fabled  city.  Yet  his  belief  in  it  was  as  strong 
as  ever.  He  had  not  found  the  fabled  city  but  he  believed 
it  was  to  be  found,  and  when  he  came  home  he  wrote  an 
account  of  his  journey  because  some  of  his  enemies  said 

^  Raleigh's  Discovery  of  Guiana. 


"THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  WORLD"        333 

that  he  had  never  been  to  Guiana  at  all  but  had  been  hid- 
ing in  Cornwall  all  the  time.  In  this  book  he  said  that 
he  was  ready  again  to  "lie  hard,  to  fare  worse,  to  be  sub- 
jected to  perils,  to  diseases,  to  ill  savours,  to  be  parched 
and  withered"  ^  if  in  the  end  he  might  succeed. 

Raleigh  was  ready  to  set  off  again  at  once  to  discover 
more  of  Guiana.  But  instead  he  joined  the  Fleet  and 
went  to  fight  the  Spanish,  who  were  once  more  threaten- 
ing England,  and  of  all  enemies  Raleigh  considered  the 
Spaniards  the  greatest. 

Once  again  the  English  won  a  splendid  victory  over 
Spain.  Before  the  town  of  Cadiz  eight  English  ships  cap- 
tured or  destroyed  thirty  Spanish  great  and  little.  They 
took  the  town  of  Cadiz  and  razed  its  fortifications  to  the 
ground.  Raleigh  bore  himself  well  in  this  fight,  so  well, 
indeed,  that  even  his  rival,  Essex,  was  bound  to  confess 
"that  which  he  did  in  the  sea-service  could  not  be 
bettered." 

And  now  after  five  years'  banishment  from  the  Queen's 
favor,  Raleigh  was  once  more  received  at  court.  But 
we  cannot  follow  all  the  ups  and  downs  of  his  court  life,  for 
we  are  told  "Sir  Walter  Raleigh  was  in  and  out  at  court, 
so  often  that  he  was  commonly  called  the  tennis  ball  of 
fortune."  And  so  the  years  went  on.  Raleigh  became 
a  Member  of  Parliament,  and  was  made  Governor  of 
Jersey.  He  fought  and  traveled,  attended  to  his  estates 
in  Ireland,  to  his  business  in  Cornwall,  to  his  governor- 
ship in  Jersey.  He  led  a  stirring,  busy  life,  fulfilling  his 
many  duties,  fighting  his  enemies,  until  in  1603  the  great 
Queen,  whose  smile  or  frown  had  meant  so  much  to  him, 
died. 

Then  soon  after  the  new  king  came  to  the  throne,  it  was 
seen  that  Raleigh's  day  at  court  was  indeed  at  an  end. 
For  James  had  been  told  that  Sir  Walter  was  among  those 

*  Raleigh's  Discovery  of  Guiana, 


334  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

who  were  unwilling  to  receive  him  as  king.  Therefore 
he  was  little  disposed  to  look  graciously  on  the  handsome 
daring  soldier-sailor. 

One  by  one  Raleigh's  posts  of  honor  were  taken  from 
him.  He  was  accused  of  treason  and  once  more  found  him- 
self a  prisoner  in  the  Tower.  He  was  tried,  and  in  spite 
of  the  fact  that  nothing  was  proved  against  him,  he  was 
condemned  to  die.  The  sentence  was  changed,  however, 
to  imprisonment  for  life. 

Raleigh  was  not  left  quite  lonely  in  the  Tower.  His 
wife  and  children,  whom  he  dearly  loved,  were  allowed  to 
come  to  live  beside  him.  The  governor  was  kind  to  him 
and  allowed  his  renowned  prisoner  to  use  his  garden.  And 
there  in  a  little  hen-house  Raleigh  amused  himself  by  mak- 
ing experiments  in  chemistry,  and  discovering  among 
other  things  how  to  distill  fresh  water  from  salt  water.  He 
found  new  friends  too  in  the  Queen  and  in  her  young  son 
Henry,  Prince  of  Wales.  It  was  a  strange  friendship  and 
a  warm  one  that  grew  between  the  gallant  boy-prince  of 
ten  and  the  tried  man  of  fifty.  Prince  Henry  loved  to  visit 
Raleigh  in  the  Tower  and  listen  to  the  tales  of  his  brave 
doings  by  sea  and  land  in  the  days  when  he  was  free. 
Raleigh  helped  Prince  Henry  to  build  a  model  ship,  and 
the  Prince  asked  Raleigh's  advice  and  talked  over  with 
him  all  his  troubles.  His  generous  young  heart  grieved 
at  the  thought  of  his  friend's  misfortunes.  "Who  but  my 
father  would  keep  such  a  bird  in  such  a  cage,"  he  said  with 
boyish  indignation. 

And  it  was  for  this  boy  friend  that  Raleigh  began  the 
book  by  which  we  know  him  best,  his  History  of  the  World. 
Never  has  such  a  great  work  been  attempted  by  a  captive. 
To  write  the  history  of  even  one  country  must  mean  much 
labor,  much  reading,  much  thought.  To  write  a  history 
of  the  world  still  more.  And  I  have  told  you  about 
Raleigh  because   with  him  begins   an  interest  in  history 


"THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  WORLD"       335 

beyond  the  bounds  of  our  own  island.  Before  him  our 
historians  had  only  written  of  England. 

It  gives  us  some  idea  of  the  large  courage  of  Raleigh's 
mind  when  we  remember  that  he  was  over  fifty  when  he 
began  this  tremendous  piece  of  work  for  the  sake  of  a  boy 
he  loved.  Raleigh  labored  at  this  book  for  seven  years  or 
more.  He  was  allowed  to  have  his  own  books  in  prison. 
Sir  Robert  Cotton  lent  him  others,  and  learned  friends 
came  to  talk  over  his  book  with  him  and  help  him.  And 
so  the  pile  of  written  sheets  grew.  But  the  book  was 
never  finished,  for  long  before  the  first  volume  was  ready 
the  brave  young  prince  for  whom  it  was  written  died. 

To  Raleigh,  this  was  the  cruellest  blow  fate  ever  dealt 
him,  for  with  the  death  of  Prince  Henry  died  his  hope 
of  freedom.  In  spite  of  his  long  imprisonment,  Raleigh 
had  never  lost  hope  of  one  day  regaining  his  freedom. 
Prince  Henry  just  before  his  death  had  wrung  an  unwilling 
promise  from  the  King  his  father  that  Raleigh  should  be 
set  free.  But  when  the  Prince  died  the  King  forgot  his 
promise. 

"O  eloquent,  just  and  mighty  death!"  Raleigh  says 
in  the  last  lines  of  his  book,  "whom  none  could  advise, 
thou  hast  persuaded,  what  none  hath  dared,  thou  hast 
done;  and  whom  all  the  world  hath  flattered,  thou  only 
hast  cast  out  of  the  world  and  despised;  thou  hast  drawn 
together  all  the  far  stretching  greatness,  all  the  pride, 
cruelty,  and  ambition  of  man,  and  covered  it  all  over 
with  these  two  narrow  words  Hie  Jacet. 

"Lastly,  whereas  this  book  by  the  title  it  hath,  calls 
itself,  the  first  part  of  The  General  History  of  the  World, 
implying  a  second  and  third  volume,  which  I  also  intended 
and  have  hewn  out,  besides  many  other  discouragements, 
persuading  my  silence,  it  hath  pleased  God  to  take  that 
glorious  prince  out  of  the  world,  to  whom  they  were 
directed;  whose  unspeakable  and  never  enough  hmiented 


336  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

loss  hath  taught  me  to  say  with  Job,  my  heart  is  tm'ned 
to  mourning  and  my  organ  into  the  voice  of  them  that 
weep." 

Raleigh  begins  his  great  book  with  the  Creation  and 
brings  it  down  to  the  third  ISIacedonian  war,  which  ended 
in  168  B.C.  So  you  see  he  did  not  get  far.  But  although 
when  he  began  he  had  intended  to  write  much  more,  he 
never  meant  to  bring  his  history  down  to  his  own  time. 
"I  know  that  it  will  be  said  by  many,"  he  writes  in  his 
preface,  "that  I  might  have  been  more  pleasing  to  the 
reader  if  I  had  written  the  story  of  mine  own  times,  having 
been  permitted  to  draw  water  as  near  the  well-head  as 
another.  To  this  I  answer  that  whosoever  in  writing  a 
modern  history,  shall  follow  truth  too  near  the  heels,  it 
may  haply  strike  out  his  teeth." 

Raleigh  feels  it  much  safer  to  write  "of  the  elder  times." 
But  even  so,  he  says  there  may  be  people  who  will  think 
"that  in  speaking  of  the  past  I  point  at  the  present,"  and 
that  under  the  names  of  those  long  dead  he  is  showing  the 
vices  of  people  who  are  alive.  "But  this  I  cannot  help 
though  innocent,"  he  says. 

Raleigh's  fears  were  not  without  ground  and  at  one 
time  his  history  was  forbidden  by  King  James  "for  being 
too  saucy  in  censuring  princes.  He  took  it  much  to  heart, 
for  he  thought  he  had  won  his  sjDurs  and  pleased  the  King 
extraordinarily."  He  had  hoped  to  please  the  King  and 
win  freedom  again,  but  his  hopes  were  shattered. 

At  last,  however,  the  door  of  his  prison  was  opened.  It 
was  a  golden  key  that  opened  it.  For  Raleigh  promised, 
if  he  were  set  free,  to  seek  once  more  the  fabled  Golden 
City,  and  this  time  he  swore  to  find  it  and  bring  home 
treasure  untold  to  his  master  the  King. 

So  once  more  the  imprisoned  sea-bird  was  free,  and 
gathering  men  and  ships  he  set  forth  on  his  last  voyage. 
He  set  forth  bearing  with  him  all  his  hopes,  all  his  fortune. 


"THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  WORLD"         337 

For  both  Raleigh  and  his  wife  ahnost  beggared  themselves 
to  get  money  to  fit  out  the  fleet,  and  with  him  as  captain 
sailed  his  young  son  Walter. 

A  year  later  Raleigh  returned.  But  he  returned  with- 
out his  son,  with  hopes  broken,  fortune  lost.  Many 
fights  and  storms  had  he  endured,  many  hardships  suffered, 
but  he  had  not  found  the  Golden  City.  His  money  was 
spent,  his  ships  shattered,  his  men  in  mutiny,  and  hardest 
of  all  to  bear,  his  young  son  Walter  lay  dead  in  far  Guiana, 
slain  in  a  fight  with  Spaniards.  How  Raleigh  grieved  we 
learn  from  his  letter  to  his  wdfe,  "I  was  loath  to  write,"  he 
says,  "because  I  knew  not  how  to  comfort  you;  and,  God 
knows,  I  never  knew  w^hat  sorrow  meant  till  now.  .  .  . 
Comfort  your  heart,  dearest  Bess,  I  shall  sorrow  for  us 
both,  I  shall  sorrow  less  because  I  have  not  long  to  sorrow, 
because  not  long  to  live.  ...  I  have  written  but  that 
letter,  for  my  brains  are  broken,  and  it  is  a  torment  for 
me  to  write,  and  especially  of  misery.  .  .  .  The  Lord  bless 
and  comfort  you  that  you  may  bear  patiently  the  death 
of  your  most  valiant  son." 

Raleigh  came  home  a  sad  and  ruined  man,  and  had  the 
pity  of  the  King  been  as  easily  aroused  as  his  fear  of  the 
Spaniards  he  had  surely  been  allowed  to  live  out  the  rest 
of  his  life  in  peaceful  quiet.  But  James,  wdio  shuddered 
at  the  sight  of  a  drawn  sword,  feared  the  Spaniards  and 
had  patched  up  an  imaginary  peace  with  them.  And  now 
when  the  Spanish  Ambassador  rushed  into  the  King's 
Chamber  crying  "Pirates!  Pirates!"  Raleigh's  fate  was 
sealed. 

Raleigh  had  broken  the  peace  in  land  belonging  to  "our 
dear  brother  the  King  of  Spain"  said  James,  therefore  he 
must  die. 

Thus  once  again,  Raleigh  found  himself  lodged  in  the 
Tower.  But  so  clearly  did  he  show  that  he  had  broken 
no  peace  where  no  peace  w^as,  that  it  was  found  impossible 


838  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

to  put  him  to  death  because  of  what  he  had  done  in 
Guiana.  He  was  condemned  to  death,  therefore,  on  the 
old  charge  of  treason  passed  upon  him  nearlj^  fifteen  years 
before.  He  met  death  bravely  and  smihng.  Clad  in 
splendid  clothes  such  as  he  loved,  he  mounted  the  scaffold 
and  made  his  farewell  speech  to  those  around. 

"  'Tis  a  sharp  medicine,  but  it  is  a  sound  cure  for  all 
diseases,"  he  said  smiling  to  the  Sheriff  as  he  felt  the  edge 
of  the  ax.    Then  he  laid  his  head  upon  the  block. 

"Thus,"  says  the  first  w^riter  of  Raleigh's  life,  "have  we 
seen  how  Sir  Walter  Raleigh  who  had  been  one  of  the 
greatest  scourges  of  Spain,  was  made  a  sacrifice  to  it." 

"So  may  we  say  to  the  memory  of  this  worthy  knight," 
says  Fuller,  "  'Repose  yourself  in  this  our  Catalogue  under 
what  topic  you  please,  statesman,  seaman,  soldier, 
learned  writer  or  what  not.'  His  worth  unlocks  our  cabi- 
nets and  provides  both  room  and  welcome  to  entertain 
him  ...  so  dexterous  was  he  in  all  his  undertakings  in 
Court,  in  camp,  by  sea,  by  land,  with  sword,  with  pen."  ^ 

BOOK  TO  READ 

Westward  Ho!  by  Charles  Kingsley  may  be  read  in  illustration  of  this  chapter. 


*  Fuller's   Worthies. 


CHAPTER  LII 

BACON— NEW  WAYS  OF  WISDOM 

When  we  are  little,  there  are  many  things  we  cannot 
understand;  we  puzzle  about  them  a  good  deal  perhaps, 
and  then  we  ask  questions.  And  sometimes  the  grown- 
ups answer  our  questions  and  make  the  puzzling  things 
clear  to  us,  sometimes  they  answer  yet  do  not  make  the 
puzzling  things  any  clearer  to  us,  and  sometimes  they  tell 
us  not  to  trouble,  that  we  will  understand  when  we  grow 
older.  Then  we  wish  we  could  grow  older  quick,  for  it 
seems  such  a  long  time  to  wait  for  an  answer.  But  worst 
of  all,  sometimes  the  grown-ups  tell  us  not  to  talk  so  much 
and  not  to  ask  so  many  questions. 

The  fact  is,  though  perhaps  I  ought  not  to  tell  you, 
grown-ups  don't  know  everything.  That  is  not  any  dis- 
grace either,  for  of  course  no  one  can  know  everything, 
not  even  father  or  mother.  And  just  as  there  are  things 
which  puzzle  little  folks,  there  are  things  which  puzzle  big 
folks.  And  just  as  among  little  folks  there  are  some  who 
ask  more  questions  and  who  "want  to  know"  more  than 
others,  so  among  grown-ups  there  are  some  who  more 
than  others  seek  for  the  answer  to  those  puzzling  questions. 
These  people  we  call  philosophers.  The  word  comes  from 
two  Greek  words,  pliilos  loving,  sophos  wise,  and  means 
loving  wisdom.  In  this  chapter  I  am  going  to  tell  you 
about  Francis  Bacon,  the  great  philoso^^her  who  lived  in 
the  times  of  Elizabeth  and  James.  I  do  not  think  that 
I  can  quite  make  you  understand  what  philosophy  really 

339 


340  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

means,  or  what  his  learned  books  were  about,  nor  do  I 
think  you  will  care  to  read  them  for  a  long  time  to  come. 
But  you  will  find  the  life  of  Francis  Bacon  very  interest- 
ing. It  is  well,  too,  to  know  about  Bacon,  for  with  him 
began  a  new  kind  of  search  for  wisdom.  The  old  searchers 
after  truth  had  tried  to  settle  the  questions  which  puzzled 
them  by  turning  to  imaginary  things,  and  by  mere  thinking. 
Bacon  said  that  we  must  answer  these  questions  by  study- 
ing not  what  was  imaginary,  but  what  was  real — by  study- 
ing nature.  So  Bacon  was  not  only  a  lover  of  truth  but 
was  also  the  first  of  our  scientists  of  to-day.  Scientist 
comes  from  the  Latin  word  scio  to  know,  and  Science  means 
that  which  we  know  by  watching  things  and  trying  things, 
— by  making  experiments.  And  although  Bacon  did 
not  himself  find  out  anything  new  and  useful  to  man, 
he  pointed  out  the  road  upon  which  others  were  to 
travel. 

It  was  upon  a  cold  day  in  January  in  1560  that  Francis 
Bacon  "came  crying  into  the  world."  ^  He  was  born  in  a 
fine  house  and  was  the  child  of  great  people,  his  father 
being  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Lord  Keeper  of  the  Great  Seal. 
But  although  his  father  was  one  of  the  most  important  men 
in  the  kingdom,  we  know  little  about  Francis  as  a  boy. 
We  know  that  he  met  the  Queen  and  that  he  must  have 
been  a  clever  little  boy,  for  she  would  playfully  call  him 
her  "young  Lord  Keeper."  Once  too  when  she  asked  him 
how  old  he  was,  he  answered,  "Two  years  younger  than 
your  Majesty's  happy  reign."  So  if  you  know  when 
Elizabeth  began  to  reign  you  will  easily  remember  when 
Bacon  was  born. 

Francis  was  the  youngest  of  a  big  family,  and  when  he 
was  little  more  than  twelve  years  old  he  went  to  Trinity 
College,  Cambridge.  Even  in  those  days,  when  people 
went  to  college  early,  this  was  young. 

'  James  Spedding. 


NEW  WAYS  OF  WISDOM  341 

For  three  years  Bacon  remained  at  college  and  then 
he  went  to  France  with  the  English  ambassador.  While 
he  was  in  France  his  father  died  and  Bacon  returned 
home.  At  eighteen  he  thus  found  himself  a  poor  lad  with 
his  future  to  make  and  only  his  father's  great  name  and 
his  own  wits  to  help  him.  He  made  up  his  mind  to 
take  Law  as  his  profession.  So  he  set  himself  quietly 
to  study. 

He  worked  hard,  for  from  the  very  beginning  he  meant 
to  get  on,  he  meant  to  be  rich  and  powerful.  So  he  bowed 
low  before  the  great,  he  wrote  letters  to  them  full  of 
flattery,  he  begged  and  promised. 

Bacon  is  like  a  man  with  two  faces.  We  look  at  one 
and  we  see  a  kindly  face  full  of  pity  and  sorrow  for  all 
wrong  and  pain  that  men  must  suffer,  we  see  there  a  long- 
ing to  help  man,  to  be  his  friend.  We  look  at  the  other 
face  and  there  we  see  the  gi'eed  of  gain,  the  desire  for 
power  and  place.  Yet  it  may  be  that  Bacon  only  strove 
to  be  great  so  that  he  might  have  more  power  and  free- 
down  to  be  pitiful.  In  spite  of  Bacon's  hard  work,  in  spite 
of  his  flattery  and  begging,  he  did  not  rise  fast.  After  five 
years  we  find  him  indeed  a  barrister  and  a  JNIember  of 
Parliament,  but  among  the  many  great  men  of  his  age  he 
was  still  of  little  account.  He  had  not  made  his  mark, 
in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  great  Lord  Burleigh  was  his 
uncle,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  Elizabeth  had  liked  him  as 
a  boy.  Post  after  post  for  which  he  begged  was  given  to 
other  men.  He  was,  he  said  himself,  "like  a  child  follow- 
ing a  bird,  which  when  he  is  nearest  flieth  away  and  lighteth 
a  little  before,  and  then  the  child  after  it  again,  and  so  in 
infinitum.    I  am  weary  of  it." 

But  one  friend  at  court  he  found  in  the  Earl  of  Essex, 
the  favorite  of  Elizabeth,  the  rival  of  Raleigh.  Essex, 
however,  who  could  win  so  much  favor  for  himself,  could 
win  none  for  Francis  Bacon.     Being  able  to  win  nothing 


342  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

from  the  Queen,  on  his  own  account  Essex  gave  his  friend 
an  estate  worth  about  £1800.  But  although  that  may 
have  been  some  comfort  to  Bacon,  it  did  not  win  for  him 
greatness  in  the  eyes  of  the  world,  the  only  greatness  for 
which  he  longed.  As  to  the  Queen,  she  made  use  of  him 
when  it  pleased  her,  but  she  had  no  love  for  him.  "Though 
she  cheered  him  much  with  the  bounty  of  her  countenance," 
says  an  early  writer  of  Bacon's  life,  his  friend  and  chaplain,^ 
"yet  she  never  cheered  him  with  the  bounty  of  her  hand." 
It  was,  alas,  that  bounty  of  the  hand  that  Bacon  begged 
for  and  stooped  for  all  through  his  life.  Yet  he  cared 
nothing  for  money  for  its  own  sake,  for  what  he  had,  he 
spent  carelessly.  He  loved  to  keep  high  state,  he  loved 
grandeur,  and  was  always  in  debt. 

Essex  through  all  his  brilliant  years  when  the  Queen 
smiled  upon  him  stuck  by  his  friend,  for  him  he  spent  his 
"power,  might,  authority  and  amity"  in  vain.  When  the 
dark  hours  came  and  Essex  fell  into  disgrace,  it  was  Bacon 
who  forgot  his  friendship. 

You  will  read  in  history-books  of  how  Essex,  against 
the  Queen's  orders,  left  Ireland,  and  coming  to  London, 
burst  into  her  presence  one  morning  before  she  was 
dressed.  You  will  read  of  how  he  was  disgraced  and  im- 
prisoned. At  first  Bacon  did  what  he  could  for  his  friend, 
and  it  was  through  his  help  that  Essex  was  set  free.  But 
even  then.  Bacon  wrote  to  the  Earl,  "I  confess  I  love  some 
things  much  better  than  I  love  your  lordship,  as  the 
Queen's  service,  her  quiet  and  contentment,  her  honour, 
her  favour,  the  good  of  my  country,  and  the  like.  Yet  I 
love  few  persons  better  than  yourself,  both  for  gratitude's 
sake,  and  for  your  own  virtues." 

Set  free,  Essex  rushed  into  passionate,  futile  rebellion. 
Again  he  was  made  prisoner  and  tried  for  high  treason. 
It  was  then  that  Bacon  had  to  choose  between  friend  and 

*  William  Rawley. 


NEW  WAYS  OF  WISDOM  343 

Queen.  He  chose  his  Queen  and  appeared  in  court 
against  his  friend.  To  do  anything  else,  Bacon  told  him- 
self, had  been  utterly  useless.  Essex  was  now  of  no  more 
use  to  him,  he  was  too  surely  fallen.  To  cling  to  him  could 
do  no  good,  but  would  only  bring  the  Queen's  anger  upon 
himself  also.  And  yet  he  had  written:  'Tt  is  friendship 
when  a  man  can  say  to  himself,  I  love  this  man  without 
respect  of  utility.  ...  I  make  him  a  portion  of  my  own 
wishes." 

He  wrote  that  as  a  young  man,  later  he  saw  nothing  in 
friendship  beyond  use. 

The  trial  of  Essex  must  have  been  a  brilHant  scene. 
The  Earl  himself,  young,  fair  of  face,  splendidly  clad, 
stood  at  the  bar.  He  showed  no  fear,  his  bearing  was  as 
proud  and  bold  as  ever,  "but  whether  his  courage  were 
borrowed  and  put  on  for  the  time  or  natural,  it  were  hard 
to  judge."  ^  The  Lord  Treasurer,  the  Lord  High  Steward, 
too,  were  there  and  twenty-five  peers,  nine  earls,  and  six- 
teen barons  to  try  the  case.  Among  the  learned  counsel 
sat  Bacon,  a  disappointed  man  of  forty.  There  was  nothing 
to  single  him  out  from  his  fellows  save  that  he  was  the 
Earl's  friend,  and  as  such  might  be  looked  upon  to  do  his 
best  to  save  him. 

As  the  trial  went  on,  however,  Bacon  spoke,  not  to 
save,  but  to  condemn.  Did  no  memory  of  past  kindliness 
cross  his  mind  as  he  likened  his  friend  to  "Cain,  that  first 
murderer,"  as  he  complained  to  the  court  that  too  much 
favor  was  shown  to  the  prisoner,  that  he  had  never  be- 
fore heard  "so  silly  a  defense  of  such  great  and  notorious 
treasons."  The  Earl  answered  in  his  own  defense  again 
and  yet  again.  But  at  length  he  Avas  silent.  His  case  w^as 
hopeless,  and  he  was  condemned  to  death.  He  was 
executed  on  25th  February,  1601. 

Perhaps  Bacon  could  not  have  saved  his  friend  from 

^John  Chamberlain. 


34^.  ENGLISH  LITERATUKE 

death,  but  had  he  used  his  wit  to  try  at  least  to  save  in- 
stead of  helping  to  condemn,  he  would  have  kept  his  own 
name  from  a  dark  blot.  But  a  greater  betrayal  of  friend- 
ship was  yet  to  follow.  Though  Essex  had  been  wild  and 
foolish  the  people  loved  him,  and  now  they  murmured 
against  the  Queen  for  causing  his  death.  Then  it  was 
thought  well,  that  they  should  know  all  the  blackness  of 
his  misdeeds,  and  it  was  Bacon  who  was  called  upon  to 
write  the  story  of  them. 

Even  from  this  he  did  not  shrink,  for  he  hoped 
for  great  rewards.  But,  as  before,  the  Queen  used 
him,  and  withheld  "the  bounty  of  her  hand";  from 
her  he  received  no  State  appointment.  He  did  indeed 
receive  <£1200  in  money.  It  was  scarcely  as  much  as  Essex 
had  once  given  him  out  of  friendship.  To  Bacon  it  seemed 
too  small  a  reward  for  his  betrayal  of  his  friend,  even 
although  it  had  seemed  to  mean  loyalty  to  his  Queen. 
"The  Queen  hath  done  somewhat  for  me,"  he  wrote,  "though 
not  in  the  proportion  I  hoped."  And  so  in  debt  and  with  a 
blotted  name.  Bacon  lived  on  until  Queen  Elizabeth  died. 
But  with  the  new  King  his  fortunes  began  to  rise.  First 
he  was  made  Sir  Francis  Bacon,  then  from  one  honor  to 
another  he  rose  until  he  became  at  last  Lord  High  Chan- 
cellor of  England,  the  highest  judge  in  the  land.  A  few 
months  later,  he  was  made  a  peer  with  the  title  of  Baron 
Verulam.  A  few  years  later  at  the  age  of  sixty  he  went 
still  one  step  higher  and  became  Viscount  St.  Albans. 

Bacon  chose  the  name  of  Baron  Verulam  from  the 
name  of  the  old  Roman  city  Verulamium  which  was  after- 
wards called  St.  Albans.  It  was  near  St.  Albans  that 
Bacon  had  built  himself  a  splendid  house,  laid  out  a 
beautiful  garden,  and  planted  fine  trees,  and  there  he  kept 
as  great  state  as  the  King  himself. 

Lie  had  now  reached  his  highest  power.  He  had  pub- 
lished his  great  work  called  the  Novum  Organum  or  New 


NEW  WAYS  OF  WISDOM  345 

Instrument  in  which  he  taught  men  a  new  way  of  wisdom. 
He  was  the  greatest  judge  in  the  land  and  a  peer  of  the 
realm.  He  had  married  too,  but  he  never  had  any  chil- 
dren, and  we  know  little  of  his  home  life. 

It  seemed  as  if  at  last  he  had  all  he  could  wish  for,  as 
if  his  life  would  end  in  a  blaze  of  glory.  But  instead  of 
that  in  a  few"  short  weeks  after  he  became  Viscount  St. 
Albans,  he  was  a  disgraced  and  fallen  man. 

He  had  always  loved  splendor  and  pomp,  he  had 
always  spent  more  than  he  could  afford.  Now  he  was 
accused  of  taking  bribes,  that  is,  he  was  accused  of  tak- 
ing money  from  people  and,  instead  of  judging  fairly,  of 
judging  in  favor  of  those  who  had  given  him  most  money. 
He  was  accused,  in  fact,  of  selling  justice.  That  he  should 
sell  justice  is  the  blackest  charge  that  can  be  brought 
against  a  judge.  At  first  Bacon  could  not  believe  that  any 
one  would  dare  to  attack  him.  But  when  he  heard  that  it 
was  true,  he  sank  beneath  the  disgrace,  he  made  no  resist- 
ance. His  health  gave  way.  On  his  sick-bed  he  owned 
that  he  had  taken  presents,  yet  to  the  end  he  protested 
that  he  had  judged  justly.  He  had  taken  the  bribes  in- 
deed, but  they  had  made  no  difference  to  his  judgments. 
He  had  not  sold  justice. 

He  made  his  confession  and  stood  to  it,  "JNIy  lords," 
he  said,  "it  is  my  act,  my  hand,  my  heart.  I  beseech  your 
lordships  be  merciful  to  a  broken  reed." 

Bacon  was  condemned  to  pay  a  fine  of  .£40,000,  to  be 
imprisoned  during  the  King's  pleasure,  never  more  to  have 
office  of  any  kind,  never  to  sit  in  Parliament,  "nor  come 
within  the  verge  of  the  Court." 

"I  was  the  justest  judge  that  was  in  England  these 
fifty  years,"  said  Bacon  afterwards.  "But  it  was  the 
justest  censure  in  Parliament  that  was  these  two  hundred 
years." 

Bacon's  punishment  was  not  as  heavy  as  at  first  sight 


346  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

it  seems,  for  the  fine  was  forgiven  him,  and  "the  king's 
pleasure,"  made  his  imprisonment  in  the  Tower  only  a 
matter  of  a  few  days. 

And  now  that  his  life  was  shipwrecked,  though  he 
never  ceased  to  long  to  return  to  his  old  greatness,  he 
gave  all  his  time  to  writing  and  to  science.  He  spent 
many  peaceful  hours  in  the  garden  that  he  loved.  "His 
lordship,"  we  are  told,  "was  a  very  contemplative  person, 
and  was  wont  to  contemplate  in  his  delicious  walks." 
He  was  generally  accompanied  by  one  of  the  gentlemen 
of  his  household  "that  attended  him  with  ink  and  paper 
ready  to  set  down  presently  his  thoughts."  ^ 

He  was  not  soured  or  bitter.  "Though  his  fortunes  may 
have  changed,"  says  one  of  his  household,"  "yet  I  never  saw 
any  change  in  his  mien,  his  words,  or  his  deeds,  towards 
any  man.  But  he  was  always  the  same  both  in  sorrow 
and  joy,  as  a  philosopher  ought  to  be." 

Bacon  was  now  shut  out  from  honorable  work  in  the 
world,  but  he  had  no  desire  to  be  idle.  "I  have  read  in 
books,"  he  wrote,  "that  it  is  accounted  a  great  bliss  to 
have  Leisure  with  Honour.  That  was  never  my  fortune. 
For  time  was  I  had  Honour  without  Leisure;  and  now  I 
have  Leisure  without  Plonour.  But  my  desire  is  now  to 
have  Leisure  without  Loitering."  So  now  he  lived  as  he 
himself  said  "a  long  cleansing  week  of  five  years."  Then 
the  end  came. 

It  was  Bacon's  thrist  for  knowledge  that  caused  his 
death.  One  winter  day  when  the  snow  lay  on  the  ground 
he  drove  out  in  his  coach.  Suddenly  as  he  drove  along 
looking  at  the  white-covered  fields  and  roads  around, 
the  thought  came  to  him  that  food  might  be  kept  good  by 
means  of  snow  as  easily  as  by  salt.  He  resolved  to  try, 
so,  stopping  his  coach,  he  went  into  a  poor  woman's 
cottage  and  bought  a  hen.     The  woman  killed  and  made 

*  J.   Aubrey.  *  Peter  Boerner,  his   apothecary  and  secretary. 


'BACON   WAS    GENERALLY    ACCOiMPANIED    BY    A   GENTLEMAN    Ol    HI.    IIUL BEHOLD, 
WHO  WAS   READY  TO   SET   DOWN   HIS  THOUGHTS.' 


NEW  WAYS  OF  WISDOM  347 

ready  the  hen,  but  Bacon  was  so  eager  about  his  experi- 
ment that  he  stuffed  it  himself  with  snow.  In  doing  this 
he  was  so  chilled  by  the  cold  that  he  became  suddenly  ill, 
too  ill  to  return  home.  He  was  taken  to  a  house  near 
"where  they  put  him  into  a  good  bed  warmed  with  a  pan"  ^ 
and  there  after  a  few  days  he  died. 

This  little  story  of  how  Bacon  came  by  his  death  gives 
a  good  idea  of  how  he  tried  to  make  use  of  his  philosophy. 
He  was  not  content  with  thinking  and  speculating,  that 
is,  looking  at  ideas.  Speculate  comes  from  the  Latin 
speciilari,  to  spy  out.  He  wanted  to  experiment  too.  And 
although  in  those  days  no  one  had  thought  about  it,  we 
now  know  that  Bacon  was  quite  right  and  that  meat  can  be 
kept  by  freezing  it.  And  it  is  pleasant  to  know  that  be- 
fore Bacon  died  he  was  able  to  write  that  the  experiment 
had  succeeded  "excellently  well." 

In  his  will  Bacon  left  his  name  and  memory  "to  men's 
charitable  speeches,  to  foreign  nations  and  to  the  next 
ages,"  and  he  was  right  to  do  so,  for  in  spite  of  all  the  dark 
shadows  that  hang  about  his  name  men  still  call  him  great. 
We  remember  him  as  a  great  man  among  great  men;  we 
remember  him  as  the  fore-runner  of  modern  science;  we 
remember  him  for  the  splendid  English  in  which  he  wrote. 

And  yet,  although  Bacon's  English  is  clear,  strong,  and 
fine,  although  Elizabethan  English  perhaps  reached  in  him 
its  highest  point,  he  himself  despised  English.  He  did 
not  believe  that  it  was  a  language  that  would  live.  And 
as  he  wanted  his  books  to  be  read  by  people  all  over  the 
world  and  in  all  time  to  come,  he  wrote  his  greatest  books 
in  Latin.  He  grieved  that  he  had  wasted  time  in  writing 
English,  and  he  had  much  that  he  wrote  in  English  trans- 
lated into  Latin  during  his  lifetime. 

It  seems  strange  to  us  now  that  in  an  age  when  Spenser 
and  Shakespeare  had  shown  the  world  what  the  English 

'  J.  Aubrey. 


348  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

tongue  had  power  to  do  that  any  man  should  have  been 
able  to  disbelieve  in  its  greatness.  But  so  it  was,  and 
Bacon  translated  his  books  into  Latin  so  that  they  naight 
live  when  English  books  "were  not." 

I  will  not  weary  you  with  a  list  of  all  the  books  Bacon 
wrote.  Although  it  is  not  considered  his  greatest  work, 
that  by  which  most  people  know  him  is  his  Book  of  Essays. 
By  an  essay,  Bacon  meant  a  testing  or  proving.  In  the 
short  chapters  of  his  essays  he  tries  and  proves  many 
things  such  as  Friendship,  Study,  Honor;  and  when  you 
come  to  read  these  essays  you  will  be  surprised  to  find  how 
many  of  the  sentences  are  known  to  you  already.  They 
have  become  "household  words,"  and  without  knowing  it 
we  repeat  Bacon's  wisdom.  But  we  miss  in  them  some- 
thing of  human  kindliness.  Bacon's  wisdom  is  cool,  calm, 
and  calculating,  and  we  long  sometimes  for  a  little  warmth, 
a  little  passion,  and  not  so  much  "use." 

The  essays  are  best  known,  but  the  New  Atlantis  is  the 
book  that  you  will  best  like  to  read,  for  it  is  something  of 
a  story,  and  of  it  I  will  tell  you  a  little  in  the  next  chapter. 


CHAPTER  LIII 

BACON— THE  HAPPY  ISLAND 

Atlantis  was  a  fabled  island  of  the  Greeks  which  lay 
somewhere  in  the  Western  Sea.  That  island,  it  was  pre- 
tended, sank  beneath  the  waves  and  was  lost,  and  Bacon 
makes  believe  that  he  finds  another  island  something  like 
it  in  the  Pacific  Ocean  and  calls  it  the  New  Atlantis.  Here, 
as  in  More's  Utopia,  the  people  living  under  just  and  wise 
laws,  are  happy  and  good.  Perhaps  some  day  you  will  be 
interested  enough  to  read  these  two  books  together  and 
compare  them.  Then  one  great  difference  will  strike  you 
at  once.  In  the  Utopia  all  is  dull  and  gray,  only  children 
are  pleased  with  jewels,  only  prisoners  are  loaded  with 
golden  chains.  In  the  New  Atlantis  jewels  and  gold 
gleam  and  flash,  the  love  of  splendor  and  color  shows 
itself  almost  in  every  page. 

Bacon  wastes  no  time  in  explanations  but  launches 
right  into  the  middle  of  his  story.  "We  sailed  from  Peru," 
he  says,  "(where  we  had  continued  by  the  space  of  one 
whole  year)  for  China  and  Japan,  by  the  South  Sea,  taking 
with  us  victuals  for  twelve  months."  And  through  all  the 
story  we  are  not  told  who  the  "we"  were  or  what  their 
names  or  business.  There  were,  we  learn,  fifty-one  persons 
in  all  on  board  the  ship.  After  some  months'  good  sailing 
they  met  with  storms  of  wind.  They  were  driven  about 
now  here,  now  there.  Their  food  began  to  fail,  and  find- 
ing themselves  in  the  midst  of  the  greatest  wilderness  of 

349 


350  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

waters  in  the  world,  they  gave  themselves  up  as  lost.  But 
presently  one  evening  they  saw  upon  one  hand  what 
seemed  like  darker  clouds,  but  which  in  the  end  proved 
to  be  land. 

"And  after  an  hour  and  a  half's  sailing,  we  entered  into 
a  good  haven,  being  the  port  of  a  fair  city,  not  great 
indeed,  but  well  built,  and  that  gave  a  pleasant  view  from 
the  sea. 

"And  we,  thinking  every  minute  long  till  we  were  on 
land,  came  close  to  the  shore,  and  offered  to  land.  But 
straightways  we  saw  divers  of  the  people,  with  bastons  in 
their  hands,  as  it  were  forbidding  us  to  land;  yet  without 
any  cries  or  fierceness,  but  only  as  warning  us  off  by  signs 
that  they  made.  Whereupon  being  not  a  little  discom- 
forted, we  were  advising  with  ourselves  what  we  should  do. 
During  which  time  there  made  forth  to  us  a  small  boat, 
with  about  eight  persons  in  it;  whereof  one  of  them  had  in 
his  hand  a  tipstaff  ^  of  a  yellow  cane,  tipped  at  both  ends 
with  blue,  who  came  aboard  our  ship,  without  any  show  of 
distrust  at  all.  And  when  he  saw  one  of  our  number 
present  himself  somewhat  before  the  rest,  he  drew  forth  a 
little  scroll  of  parchment  (somewhat  yellower  than  our 
parchment,  and  shining  like  the  leaves  of  writing-tables, 
but  otherwise  soft  and  flexible),  and  delivered  it  to  our 
foremost  man.  In  which  scroll  were  written  in  ancient 
Hebrew,  and  in  ancient  Greek,  and  in  good  Latin  of  the 
School,  and  in  Spanish,  these  words:  'Land  ye  not,  none 
of  you.  And  provide  to  be  gone  from  this  coast  within 
sixteen  days,  except  ye  have  further  time  given  you. 
Meanwhile,  if  ye  want  fresh  water,  or  victual,  or  help  for 
your  sick,  or  that  your  ship  needeth  repair,  write  down 
your  wants,  and  ye  shall  have  that  which  belongeth  to 
mercy.' 

"This  scroll  was  signed  with  a  stamp  of  Cherubim's 

'  staff  of  office. 


THE  HAPPY  ISLAND  351 

wings,  not  spread  but  hanging  downwards,  and  by  them  a 
cross. 

"This  being  delivered,  the  officer  returned,  and  left  only 
a  servant  with  us  to  receive  our  answer.  Consulting 
thereupon  among  ourselves,  w^e  were  much  perplexed. 
The  denial  of  landing  and  hasty  warning  us  away  troubled 
us  much.  On  the  other  side,  to  find  that  the  people  had 
languages  and  were  so  full  of  humanity,  did  comfort  us 
not  a  little.  And  above  all,  the  sign  of  the  cross  to  that 
instrument  was  to  us  a  great  rejoicing,  and  as  it  were  a 
certain  presage  of  good. 

"Our  answer  was  in  the  Spanish  tongue:  'That  for 
our  ship,  it  was  well;  for  we  had  rather  met  with  calms 
and  contrary  winds  than  any  tempests.  For  our  sick, 
they  were  many,  and  in  very  ill  case,  so  that  if  they 
were  not  permitted  to  land,  they  ran  danger  of  their 
lives.' 

"Our  other  w^ants  we  set  down  in  particular;  adding, 
'that  we  had  some  little  store  of  merchandise,  which  if  it 
pleased  them  to  deal  for,  it  might  supply  our  wants  without 
being  chargeable  unto  them.' 

"We  offered  some  reward  in  pistolets  unto  the  servant, 
and  a  piece  of  crimson  velvet  to  be  presented  to  the  officer. 
But  the  servant  took  them  not,  nor  would  scarce  look  upon 
them;  and  so  left  us,  and  went  back  in  another  little  boat 
which  was  sent  for  him." 

About  three  hours  after  the  answer  had  been  sent,  the 
ship  was  visited  by  another  great  man  from  the  island. 
"He  had  on  him  a  gown  with  wide  sleeves,  of  a  kind  of 
water  chamelot  of  an  excellent  azure  colour,  far  more 
glossy  than  ours.  Plis  under  apparel  was  green,  and  so 
was  his  hat,  being  in  the  form  of  a  turban,  daintily  made, 
and  not  so  huge  as  the  Turkish  turbans.  And  the  locks  of 
his  hair  came  down  below  the  brims  of  it.  A  reverend  man 
was  he  to  behold. 


352  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"He  came  in  a  boat,  gilt  in  some  part  of  it,  with  four 
persons  more  only  in  that  boat,  and  was  followed  by 
another  boat,  wherein  were  some  twenty.  When  he  was 
come  within  a  flight  shot  of  our  ship,  signs  were  made  to 
us  that  we  should  send  forth  some  to  meet  him  upon  the 
water;  which  w^e  presently  did  in  our  shipboat,  sending 
the  principal  man  amongst  us  save  one,  and  four  of  our 
number  with  him. 

"When  we  were  come  within  six  yards  of  their  boat 
they  called  to  us  to  stay,  and  not  to  approach  further; 
which  we  did.  And  thereupon  the  man  whom  I  before 
described  stood  up,  and  with  a  loud  voice  in  Spanish,  asked 
'Are  ye  Christians?' 

"We  answered,  'We  were';  fearing  the  less,  because  of 
the  cross  we  had  seen  in  the  subscription. 

"At  which  answer  the  said  person  lifted  up  his  right 
hand  towards  heaven,  and  drew  it  softly  to  his  mouth 
(which  is  the  gesture  they  use  when  they  thank  God)  and 
then  said:  *If  ye  will  swear  (all  of  you)  by  the  merits  of 
the  Saviour  that  ye  are  no  pirates,  nor  have  shed  blood 
lawfully  nor  unlawfully  within  forty  days  past,  you  may 
have  licence  to  come  on  land.' 

"We  said,  'We  were  all  ready  to  take  that  oath.' 

"Whereupon  one  of  those  that  were  with  him,  being 
(as  it  seemed)  a  notary,  made  an  entry  of  this  act.  Which 
done,  another  of  the  attendants  of  the  great  person,  which 
was  with  him  in  the  same  boat,  after  his  lord  had  spoken 
a  little  to  him,  said  aloud:  'My  lord  would  have  you 
know,  that  it  is  not  of  pride  or  greatness  that  he  cometh 
out  aboard  your  ship;  but  for  that  in  your  answer  you 
declare  that  you  have  many  sick  amongst  you,  he  was 
warned  by  the  Conservator  of  Health  of  the  city  that  he 
should  keep  a  distance.' 

"We  bowed  ourselves  towards  him,  and  answered, 
'We  were  his  humble  servants;  and  accounted  for  great 


THE  HAPPY  ISLAND  353 

honour  and  singular  humanity  towards  us  that  which  was 
already  done;  but  hoped  well  that  the  nature  of  the  sick- 
ness of  our  men  was  not  infectious.' 

"So  he  returned;  and  a  while  after  came  the  notary 
to  us  aboard  our  ship,  holding  in  his  hand  a  fruit  of  that 
country,  like  an  orange,  but  of  colour  betMeen  orange- 
tawny  and  scarlet,  which  cast  a  most  excellent  odour. 
He  used  it  (as  it  seemeth)  for  a  preservative  against  infec- 
tion. 

"He  gave  us  our  oath;  'By  the  name  of  Jesus  and  of 
his  merits,'  and  after  told  us  that  the  next  day  by  six  of 
the  clock  in  the  morning  we  should  be  sent  to,  and  brought 
to  the  Strangers'  House  (so  he  called  it),  where  we  should 
be  accommodated  of  things  both  for  our  whole  and  for  our 
sick. 

"So  he  left  us.  And  when  we  offered  him  some  pistolets 
he  smiling  said,  'He  must  not  be  twice  paid  for  one  labour,' 
meaning,  as  I  take  it,  that  he  had  salary  sufficient  of  the 
State  for  his  service.  For  (as  I  after  learned)  they  call 
an  officer  that  taketh  rewards,  twice  paid." 

So  next  morning  the  people  landed  from  the  ship,  and 
Bacon  goes  on  to  tell  us  of  the  wonderful  things  they  saw 
and  learned  in  the  island.  The  most  wonderful  thing  was 
a  place  called  Solomon's  House.  In  describing  it  Bacon 
was  describing  such  a  house  as  he  hoped  one  day  to  see  in 
England.  It  was  a  great  establishment  in  which  every- 
thing that  might  be  of  use  to  mankind  was  studied  and 
taught.  And  Bacon  speaks  of  many  things  which  were 
only  guessed  at  in  his  time.  He  speaks  of  high  towers 
wherein  people  watched  "winds,  rain,  snow,  hail  and 
some  of  the  fiery  meteors  also."  To-da}^  we  have  obser- 
vatories. He  speaks  of  "help  for  the  sight  far  above 
spectacles  and  glasses,"  also  "glasses  and  means  to  see 
small  and  minute  bodies  perfectly  and  distinctly,  as  the 
shapes  and  colours  of  small  flies  and  worms,  gi-ains  and 


354  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

flaws  in  gems,  which  cannot  otherwise  be  seen."  To-day 
we  have  the  microscope.  He  says  "we  have  also  means 
to  convey  sounds  in  trunks  and  pipes,  in  strange  lines  and 
distances,"  yet  in  those  days  no  one  had  dreamed  of  a 
telephone.  "We  imitate  also  flights  of  birds;  we  have 
some  degrees  of  flying  in  the  air.  We  have  ships  and 
boats  for  going  under  water,"  yet  in  those  days  stories  of 
flying-ships  or  torpedoes  would  have  been  treated  as  fairy 
tales. 

Bacon  did  not  finish  The  New  Atlantis.  "The  rest  was 
not  perfected"  are  the  last  words  in  the  book  and  it  was  not 
published  until  after  his  death.  These  words  might  almost 
have  been  written  of  Bacon  himself.  A  great  writer,  a 
great  man, — but  "The  rest  was  not  perfected."  He  put 
his  trust  in  princes  and  he  fell.  Yet  into  the  land  of 
knowledge — 

"Bacon,  like  Moses,  led  us  forth  at  last; 
The  barren  wilderness   he  passed. 
Did  on  the  very  border   stand 
Of   the   blest   promised   land, 
And  from  the  mountain's  top  of  his  exalted  wit 
Saw  it  himself  and   shew'd  us   it. 
But  life  did  never  to  one  man  allow 
Time  to  discover  worlds  and  conquer  too; 
Nor  can  so  short  a  line  sufficient  be, 
To  fathom  the  vast  depths  of  nature's  sea. 
The  work  he  did  we  ought  t'admire, 
And  were  unjust  if  we  should  more  require 
From  his  few  years,  divided  twixt  th'  excess 
Of  low  affliction  and  high  happiness. 
For  who  on  things  remote  can  fix  his  sight 
That's  always  in  a  triumph  or  a  fight."  ^ 

You  will  like  to  know,  that  less  than  forty  years  after 
Bacon's  death  a  society  called  The  Royal  Society  was 
founded.  This  is  a  Society  which  interests  itself  in 
scientific  study  and  research,  and  is  the  oldest  of  its  kind 

^  Abraham  Cowley,  To  the  Royal  Society. 


THE  HAPPY  ISLAND  355 

in  Great  Britain.  It  was  Bacon's  fancy  of  Solomon's 
House  which  led  men  to  found  this  Society.  Bacon  was 
the  great  man  whose  "true  imagination"  ^  set  it  on  foot, 
and  although  many  years  have  passed  since  then,  the 
Royal  Society  still  keeps  its  place  in  the  forefront  of 
Science. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

The  New  Atlantis,  edited  by  G.  D.  W.  Bevan,  modern  spelling  (for  schools). 
The  New  Atlantis,  edited  by  G.  C.  Moore  Smith,  in  old  spelling  (for  schools). 


*  Thomas  Sprat,  History  of  Royal  Society,  1667. 


CHAPTER  LIV 

ABOUT  SOME  LYRIC  POETS 

Before  either  Ben  Jonson  or  Bacon  died,  a  second  Stuart 
king  sat  on  the  throne  of  England.  This  was  Charles  i. 
the  son  of  James  vi.  and  i.  The  spacious  days  of  Queen 
Elizabeth  were  over  and  gone,  and  the  temper  of  the 
people  was  changing.  Elizabeth  had  been  a  tja'ant  but 
the  people  of  England  had  yielded  to  her  tyranny.  James, 
too,  was  a  tyrant,  but  the  people  struggled  with  him,  and 
in  the  struggle  they  grew  stronger.  In  the  days  of  Eliza- 
beth the  religion  of  England  was  still  unsettled.  James 
decided  that  the  religion  of  England  must  be  Episcopal, 
but  as  the  reign  of  James  went  on,  England  became  more 
and  more  Puritan  and  the  breach  between  King  and  people 
grew  wide,  for  James  was  no  Puritan  nor  was  Charles 
after  him. 

As  the  temper  of  the  j^eople  changed,  the  literature 
changed  too.  As  England  grew  Puritan,  the  people 
began  to  look  askance  at  the  theater,  for  the  Puritans  had 
always  been  its  enemies.  Puritan  ideas  drew  the  great 
mass  of  thinking  people. 

For  one  reason  or  another  the  plaj^s  that  were  written 
became  by  degrees  poorer  and  poorer.  They  were  coarse 
too,  many  of  them  so  much  so  that  we  do  not  care  to  read 
them  now.  But  people  wrote  such  stories  as  the  play- 
goers of  those  days  liked,  and  from  them  we  can  judge  how 
low  the  taste  of  England  had  fallen.  Plowever,  there  were 
people  in  England  in  those  days  who  revolted  against  this 
taste,  and  in  1642,  when  the  great  struggle  between  King 

356 


ABOUT  SOME  LYRIC  POETS  357 

and  Parliament  had  begun,  all  theaters  were  closed  by- 
order  of  Parliament.  So  for  a  time  the  life  of  English 
drama  paused. 

But  while  dramatic  poetry  declined,  lyric  poetry 
flourished.  Lyric  comes  from  the  Greek  word  Iwa,  a  lyre, 
and  all  lyric  poetry  was  at  one  time  meant  to  be  sung. 
Now  we  use  the  word  for  any  short  poem  whether  meant 
to  be  sung  or  not.  In  the  times  of  James  and  Charles 
there  were  many  lyric  poets.  Especially  in  the  time  of 
Charles  it  was  natural  that  poets  should  write  lyrics 
rather  than  longer  poems.  For  a  time  of  strong  action,  of 
fierce  struggle  was  beginning,  and  amid  the  clash  of  arms 
men  had  no  leisure  to  sit  in  the  study  and  ponder  long  and 
quietty.  But  life  brought  with  it  many  sharp  and  quick 
moments,  and  these  could  be  best  expressed  in  lyric  poetry. 
And  as  was  natural  when  religion  was  more  and  more  being 
mixed  with  politics,  when  life  was  forcing  people  to  think 
about  religion  whether  they  would  or  not,  many  of  these 
lyric  poets  were  religious  poets.  Indeed  this  is  the  great 
time  of  English  religious  poetry.  So  these  lyric  poets 
were  divided  into  two  classes,  the  religious  poets  and  the 
court  poets,  gay  cavaliers  these  last  who  sang  love- 
songs,  love-songs,  too,  in  which  we  often  seem  to  hear  the 
clash  of  swords.  For  if  these  brave  and  careless  cavaliers 
loved  gayly,  they  fought  and  died  as  gayly  as  they  loved. 

Later  on  when  you  come  to  read  more  in  English 
literature,  you  will  learn  to  know  many  of  these  poets. 
In  this  book  we  have  not  room  to  tell  about  them  or  even 
to  mention  their  names.  Their  stories  are  bound  up  with 
the  stories  of  the  times,  and  many  of  them  fought  and 
suffered  for  their  king.  But  I  will  give  you  one  or  two 
poems  which  may  make  you  want  to  know  more  about  the 
writers  of  them. 

Here  are  two  written  by  Richard  Lovelace,  the  very 
model  of  a  gay  cavalier.     While  he  was  at  Oxford,  King 


358  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Charles  saw  him  and  made  hhn  M.A.  or  Master  of  Arts, 
not  for  his  learning,  but  because  of  his  beautiful  face.  He 
went  to  court  and  made  love  and  sang  songs  gayly.  He 
went  to  battle  and  fought  and  sang  as  gayly,  he  went  to 
prison  and  still  sang.  To  the  cause  of  his  King  he  clung 
through  all,  and  when  Charles  was  dead  and  Cromwell 
ruled  with  his  stern  hand,  and  song  was  hushed  in  England, 
he  died  miserably  in  a  poor  London  alley. 

The  first  of  these  songs  was  written  by  Lovelace  while 
he  was  in  prison  for  having  presented  a  petition  to  the 
House  of  Commons  asking  that  King  Charles  might  be 
restored  to  the  throne. 

TO  ALTHEA  FROM  PRISON 

"When  love  with  unconfined  wings 

Hovers  within  my  gates. 
And  my  divine  Althea  brings 

To  whisper  at  the  grates; 
When  I  lye  tangled  in  her  haire. 

And  fettered  to  her  eye, 
The  gods,  that  wanton  in  the  aire. 

Know  no  such  liberty. 

"When   (like  committed  linnets)   I 

With  shriller  throat  shall  sing 
The  sweetness,  mercy,  majesty. 

And  glories  of  my  King. 
When  I  shall  voyce  aloud,  how  good 

He  is,  how  great  should  be, 
Enlarged  winds,  that  curie  the  flood. 

Know  no  such  liberty. 

"Stone  walls  do  not  a  prison  make. 

Nor  iron  bars  a  cage; 
Mindes  innocent  and  quiet  take 

That  for  an  hermitage ; 
If  I  have  freedome  in  my  love. 

And  in  my  soule  am  free. 
Angels  alone  that  soar  above 

Enjoy  such  liberty." 


ABOUT    SOME   LYRIC   POETS  359 

TO  LUCASTA  GOING  TO  THE  WARRES 

"Tell  me  not  (sweet)  I  am  unkinde, 
That  from  the  nunnerie 
Of  thy  chaste  heart  and  quiet  minde 
To  warre  and  armes  I  flie. 

"True :  a  new  Mistresse  now  I  chase, 
The  first  foe  in  the  field, 
And  with  a  stronger   faith  embrace 
A  sword,  a  horse,  a  shield. 

"Yet  this  inconstancy  is  such 
As  you,  too,  shall  adore; 
I  could  not  love  thee,  dear,  so  much, 
Lov'd   I   not   Honour  more." 

James  Graham,  Marquis  of  Montrose,  was  another 
cavalier  poet  whose  fine,  sad  story  you  will  read  in  history. 
He  loved  his  King  and  fought  and  suffered  for  him,  and 
when  he  heard  that  he  was  dead  he  drew  his  sword  and 
wrote  a  poem  with  its  point: 

"Great,  Good,  and  Just,  could  I  but  rate 
My  grief,  and  thy  too  rigid  fate, 
I'd  weep  the  world  in  such  a  strain 
As  it  should  deluge  once  again: 
But  since  thy  loud-tongued  blood  demands  supplies 
More  from  Briareus'  hands  than  Argus'  eyes, 
I'll  sing  thy  obsequies  with  trumpet  sounds 
And  write  thine  epitaph  in  blood  and  wounds." 

He  wrote,  too,  a  famous  song  known  as  Montrose's 
Love-song.     Here  it  is: — 

"My  dear  and  only  love,  I  pray 
This  noble  world  of  thee, 
Be  governed  by  no  other  sway 
But  purest  monarchic. 

"For  if  confusion  have  a  part 
Which  vertuous  souls  abhore. 
And  hold  a  synod  in  thy  heart, 
I'll  never  love  thee  more. 


360  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"Like  Alexander  I  will  reign^ 
And  I  will  reign  alone, 
My  thoughts  shall  evermore  disdain 
A  rival  on  my  throne. 

"He  either  fears  his  fate  too  much 
Or  his  deserts  are  small, 
That  puts  it  not  unto  the  touch, 
To  win  or  lose  it  all. 

"But  I  must  rule  and  govern  still. 
And  always  give  the  law. 
And  have  each  subject  at  my  will. 
And  all  to  stand  in  awe. 

"But  'gainst  my  battery  if  I  find 
Thou  shun'st  the  prize  so  sore. 
As  that  thou  set'st  me  up  a  blind 
I'll  never  love  thee  more. 

"If  in  the  Empire  of  thy  heart. 
Where  I  should  solely  be. 
Another  do  pretend  a  part. 
And  dares  to  vie  with  me: 

"Or  if  committees  thou  erect. 
And  goes  on  such  a  score, 
I'll  sing  and  laugh  at  thy  neglect. 
And  never  love  thee  more. 

"But  if  thou  wilt  be  constant  then. 
And  faithful  to  thy  Avord, 
I'll  make  thee  glorious  with  my  pen 
And  famous  by  my  sword. 

"I'll  serve  thee  in  such  noble  ways 
Was  never  heard  before, 
I'll  crown  and  deck  thee  all  with  bays 
And  love  thee  more  and  more." 

In  these  few  cavalier  songs  we  can  see  the  spirit  of  the 
times.  There  is  gay  carelessness  of  death,  strong  courage 
in  misfortune,  passionate  loyalty.  There  is,  too,  the 
proud  spirit  of  the  tyrant,  which  is  gentle  and  loving 
when  obeyed,  harsh  and  cruel  if  disobeyed. 


ABOUT    SOME    LYRIC    POETS  361 

There  is  another  song  by  a  cavaHer  poet  which  I  should 
like  to  give  you.  It  is  a  love-song,  too,  but  it  does  not  tell 
of  these  stormy  times,  or  ring  with  the  noise  of  battle. 
Rather  it  takes  us  away  to  a  peaceful  summer  morning 
before  the  sun  is  up,  when  everything  is  still,  when  the 
dew  trembles  on  every  blade  of  grass,  and  the  air  is  fresh 
and  cool,  and  sweet  with  summer  scents.  And  in  this 
cool  freshness  we  hear  the  song  of  the  lark: 

"The  lark  now  leaves  his  wat'ry  nest. 
And,  climbing,  shakes  his  dewy  wings ; 
He  takes  this  window  for  the  east; 
And  to  implore  your  light,  he  sings ; 
'Awake,  awake !  the  Morn  will  never  rise. 
Till  she  can  dress  her  beauty  at  your  eyes.' 

"The  merchant  bows  unto  the  seaman's  star. 
The  ploughman  from  the  Sun  his  season  takes ; 
But  still  the  lover  wonders  what  they  are, 
Who  look  for  day  before  his  mistress  wakes. 
'Awake,  awake !  break  thro'  your  veils  of  lawn ! 
Then  draw  your  curtains,  and  begin  the  dawn.'  " 

That  was  written  by  William  Davenant,  poet-laureate. 
It  is  one  of  our  most  beautiful  songs,  and  he  is  remembered 
by  it  far  more  than  by  his  long  epic  poem  called  Gondi- 
hert  which  few  people  now  read.  But  I  think  you  will 
agree  with  me  that  his  name  is  worthy  of  being  remembered 
for  that  one  song  alone. 


CHAPTER  LV 

HERBERT— THE  PARSON  POET 

Having  told  you  a  little  about  the  songs  of  the  cavaliers 
I  must  now  tell  you  something  about  the  religious  poets 
who  were  a  feature  of  the  age.  Of  all  our  religious  poets, 
of  this  time  at  least,  George  Herbert  is  the  greatest.  He 
was  born  in  1593  near  the  town  of  Montgomery,  and  was 
the  son  of  a  noble  family,  but  his  father  died  when  he  was 
little  more  than  three,  leaving  his  mother  to  bring  up 
George  with  his  nine  brothers  and  sisters. 

George  Herbert's  mother  was  a  good  and  beautiful 
v/oman,  and  she  loved  her  children  so  well  that  the  poet 
said  afterwards  she  had  been  twice  a  mother  to  him. 

At  twelve  he  was  sent  to  Westminster  school  where  we 
are  told  "the  beauties  of  his  pretty  behaviour  sinned"  so 
that  he  seemed  "to  become  the  care  of  Heaven  and  of  a 
particular  good  angel  to  guard  and  guide  him."  ^ 

At  fifteen  he  went  to  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.  And 
now,  although  separated  from  his  "dear  and  careful 
Mother"  ^  he  did  not  forget  her  or  all  that  she  had  taught 
him.  Already  he  was  a  poet.  We  find  him  sending  verses 
as  a  New  Year  gift  to  his  mother  and  writing  to  her  that 
"my  poor  abilities  in  poetry  shall  be  all  and  ever  conse- 
crated to  God's  glory." 

As  the  years  went  on  Herbert  worked  hard  and  became 
a  gently  good,  as  well  as  a  learned  man,  and  in  time  he  was 
given  the  post  of  Public  Orator  at  the  University.     This 

*Izaak  Walton. 
362 


THE  PARSON  POET  363 

post  brought  him  into  touch  with  the  court  and  with  the 
King.  Of  this  George  Herbert  was  glad,  for  although  he 
was  a  good  and  saintly  man,  he  longed  to  be  a  courtier. 
Often  now  he  went  to  court  hoping  for  some  great  post. 
But  James  i.  died  in  1625  and  with  him  died  George 
Herbert's  hope  of  rising  to  be  great  in  the  world. 

For  a  time,  then,  he  left  court  and  went  into  the  country, 
and  there  he  passed  through  a  great  struggle  with  himself. 
The  question  he  had  to  settle  was  "whether  he  should 
return  to  the  painted  pleasure  of  a  court  life"  or  become  a 
priest. 

In  the  end  he  decided  to  become  a  priest,  and  when 
a  friend  tried  to  dissuade  him  from  the  calling  as  one 
too  much  below  his  birth,  he  answered:  "It  hath  been 
judged  formerly,  that  the  domestic  servants  of  the  King  of 
Heaven  should  be  of  the  noblest  families  on  earth.  And 
though  the  iniquity  of  late  times  have  made  clergj'^men 
meanly  valued,  and  the  sacred  name  of  priest  contemptible, 
yet  I  will  labor  to  make  it  honorable.  .  .  .  And  I  will 
labor  to  be  like  my  Saviour,  by  making  humility  lovely  in 
the  eyes  of  all  men,  and  by  following  the  merciful  and 
meek  example  of  my  dear  Jesus." 

But  before  Herbert  was  fully  ordained  a  great  change 
came  into  his  life.  The  Church  of  England  was  now  Pro- 
testant and  priests  were  allowed  to  marry,  and  George 
Herbert  married.  The  story  of  how  he  met  his  wife  is 
pretty. 

Herbert  was  such  a  cheerful  and  good  man  that  he  had 
many  friends.  It  was  said,  indeed,  that  he  had  no  enemy. 
Among  his  many  friends  was  one  named  Danvers,  who 
loved  him  so  much  that  he  said  nothing  would  make  him 
so  happy  as  that  George  should  marry  one  of  his  nine 
daughters.  But  specially  he  wished  him  to  marry  his 
daughter  Jane,  for  he  loved  her  best,  and  would  think  of 
no  more  happj'  fate  for  her  than  to  be  the  wife  of  such  a 


364  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

man  as  George  Herbert.  He  talked  of  George  so  much 
to  Jane  that  she  loved  him  without  having  seen  him. 
George  too  heard  of  Jane  and  wished  to  meet  her.  And 
at  last  after  a  long  time  they  met.  Each  had  heard  so 
much  about  the  other  that  they  seemed  to  know  one 
another  already,  and  like  the  prince  and  princess  in  a  fairj'' 
tale,  they  loved  at  once,  and  three  days  later  they  were 
married. 

Soon  after  this,  George  Herbert  was  offered  the  living 
of  Bemerton  near  Salisbury.  But  although  he  had  al- 
ready made  up  his  mind  to  become  a  priest  he  was  as  yet 
only  a  deacon.  This  sudden  offer  made  him  fearful.  He 
began  again  to  question  himself  and  wonder  if  he  was  good 
enough  for  such  a  high  calling.  For  a  month  he  fasted 
and  prayed  over  it.  But  in  the  end  Laud,  Bishop  of 
London,  assured  him  "that  the  refusal  of  it  was  a  sin."  So 
Herbert  put  off  his  sword  and  gay  silken  clothes,  and  put- 
ting on  the  long  dark  robe  of  a  priest  turned  his  back  for 
ever  to  thoughts  of  a  court  life.  "I  now  look  back  upon  my 
aspiring  thoughts,"  he  said,  "and  think  myself  more  happy 
than  if  I  had  attained  what  I  so  ambitiously  thirsted  for. 
I  can  now  behold  the  court  with  an  impartial  eye,  and  see 
plainly  that  it  is  made  up  of  fraud  and  titles  and  flattery, 
and  many  other  such  empty,  imaginary,  painted  pleasures." 
And  having  turned  his  back  on  all  gayetj%  he  began  the  life 
which  earned  for  him  the  name  of  "saintly  George  Herbert." 
He  taught  his  people,  preached  to  them,  and  prayed  with 
them  so  lovingly  that  they  loved  him  in  return.  "Some 
of  the  meaner  sort  of  his  parish  did  so  love  and  reverence 
Mr.  Herbert  that  they  would  let  their  plough  rest  when 
Mr.  Herbert's  saint's  bell  rang  to  prayers,  that  they  might 
also  offer  their  devotions  to  God  wath  him;  and  would 
then  return  back  to  their  plough.  And  his  most  holy 
life  w^as  such,  that  it  begot  such  reverence  to  God  and 
to   him,   that   they  thought   themselves   the   happier   when 


THE  PARSON  POET  365 

they   carried   Mr.   Herbert's   blessing  back   with   them   to 
their  labour."  ^ 

But  he  did  not  only  preach,  he  practised  too.  I  must 
tell  you  just  one  story  to  show  you  how  he  practiced. 
Herbert  was  very  fond  of  music;  he  sang,  and  played  too, 
upon  the  lute  and  viol.  One  day  as  he  was  walking  into 
Salisbury  to  play  with  some  friends  "he  saw  a  poor  man 
with  a  poorer  horse,  which  was  fallen  under  his  load. 
They  were  both  in  distress  and  needed  present  help. 
This  Mr.  Herbert  perceiving  put  off  his  canonical  coat, 
and  helped  the  poor  man  to  unload,  and  after  to  load  his 
horse.  The  poor  man  blest  him  for  it,  and  he  blest  the 
poor  man,  and  was  so  like  the  Good  Samaritan  that  he 
gave  him  money  to  refresh  both  himself  and  his  horse, 
and  told  him,  that  if  he  loved  himself,  he  should  be  merci- 
ful to  his  beast.     Thus  he  left  the  poor  man. 

"And  at  his  coming  to  his  musical  friends  at  Salisburj^ 
they  began  to  wonder  that  Mr.  George  Herbert,  which  used 
to  be  so  trim  and  clean,  came  into  that  company  so  soiled 
and  discomposed.  But  he  told  them  the  occasion.  And 
when  one  of  the  company  told  him,  he  had  disparaged 
himself  by  so  dirty  an  employment,  his  answer  was:  that 
the  thought  of  what  he  had  done  would  prove  music  to 
him  at  midnight,  and  the  omission  of  it  would  have  up- 
braided and  made  discord  in  his  conscience  whensoever 
he  should  pass  by  that  place.  'For  if  I  be  bound  to  pray 
for  all  that  be  in  distress,  I  am  sure  that  I  am  bound,  so 
far  as  it  is  in  my  power,  to  practice  what  I  pray  for.  And 
though  I  do  not  wish  for  the  like  occasion  every  daj^  yet 
let  me  tell  you,  I  would  not  willingly  pass  one  day  of  my 
life  without  comforting  a  sad  soul  or  shewing  mercy.  And 
I  praise  God  for  this  occasion. 

"  'And  now  let's  tune  our  instruments.' "  ^ 

This  story  reminds  us  that  besides  being  a  parson  Her- 

*  Walton.  The  same. 


366  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

bert  was  a  courtier  and  a  fine  gentleman.  His  courtly 
friends  were  surprised  that  he  should  lower  himself  by  help- 
ing a  poor  man  with  his  own  hands.  But  that  is  just  one 
thing  that  we  have  to  remember  about  Herbert,  he  had 
nothing  of  the  Puritan  in  him,  he  was  a  cavalier,  a  courtier, 
yet  he  showed  the  world  that  it  was  possible  to  be  these 
and  still  be  a  good  man.  He  did  not  believe  that  any  honest 
work  was  a  "dirty  employment."  In  one  of  his  poems  he 
says: 

"Teach  me  my  God  and  King, 
In    all   things    Thee    to    see. 
And  what  I   do  in  anything 
To  do  it  as  for  Thee. 

"All  may  of  Thee  Partake: 

Nothing  can  be  so  mean 

Which  with  his  tincture  (for  Thy  sake) 

Will  not  grow  bright  and  clean. 
**A  Servant  with  this   clause 

Makes  drudgery  divine; 

Who   sweeps   a  room   as   for   Thy  laws 

Makes  that  and  th'  action  fine. 

"This  is  the  famous  stone 
That  turneth  all  to  gold; 
For  that  which  God  doth  touch  and  own 
Cannot  for  less  be  told."  ^ 

I  have  told  you  the  story  about  Herbert  and  the  poor 
man  in  the  words  of  Izaak  Walton,  the  first  writer  of  a  life 
of  George  Herbert.  I  hope  some  day  you  will  read  that 
life  and  also  the  other  books  Walton  wrote,  for  although 
we  have  not  room  for  him  in  this  book,  his  books  are  one 
of  the  delights  of  our  literature  which  await  you. 

In  all  Herbert's  work  among  his  people,  his  wife  was 
his  companion  and  help,  and  the  people  loved  her  as  much, 
as  they  loved  their  parson.  "Love  followed  her,"  says 
Walton,  "in  all  places  as  inseparably  as  shadows  follow 
substances  in  sunshine." 

^  Counted. 


THE  PARSON  POET  36T 

Besides  living  thus  for  his  people  Herbert  almost  re- 
built the  church  and  rectory  both  of  which  he  found  very 
ruined.  And  when  he  had  made  an  end  of  rebuilding 
he  carved  these  words  upon  the  chimney  in  the  hall  of 
the  Rectory: 

"If  thou  chance  for  to  find 
A   new   house   to    thy   mind, 
And  built  without  thy  cost; 
Be  good  to  the  poor, 
As  God  gives  thee  Store 
And  then   my  labor's  not  lost." 

His  life,  one  would  think,  was  busy  enough,  and  full 
enough,  yet  amid  it  all  he  found  time  to  write.  Besides 
many  poems  he  wrote  for  his  own  guidance  a  book  called 
The  Country  Parson.  It  is  a  book,  says  Walton,  "so  full  of 
plain,  prudent,  and  useful  rules  that  that  country  parson 
that  can  spare  12d.  and  yet  wants  it  is  scarce  excusable." 

But  Herbert's  happy,  useful  days  at  Bemerton  were 
all  too  short.  In  1632,  before  he  had  held  his  living  three 
years,  he  died,  and  was  buried  by  his  sorrowing  people 
beneath  the  altar  of  his  own  little  church. 

It  was  not  until  after  his  death  that  his  poems  were 
published.  On  his  death-bed  he  left  the  book  in  which 
he  had  written  them  to  a  friend.  "Desire  him  to  read  it," 
he  said,  "and  if  he  can  think  it  may  turn  to  the  advantage 
of  any  dejected  poor  soul,  let  it  be  made  public.  If  not  let 
him  burn  it." 

The  book  was  published  under  the  name  of  The  Temple. 
All  the  poems  are  short  except  the  first,  called  The  Church 
Porch.     From  that  I  will  quote  a  few  lines.     It  begins: 

"Thou  -whose  sweet  youth  and  early  hopes  enchance 
Thy  rate  and  price,  and  mark  thee  for  a  treasure. 
Hearken  unto   a   Verser,  who  may  chance 
Ryme  thee  to  good,  and  make  a  bait  of  pleasure. 

A  verse  may  find  him  who  a  sermon  flies. 

And  turn  delight  into  a  sacrifice. 


368  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"Lie  not,  but  let  thy  heart  be  true  to  God, 
Thy  mouth  to  it,  thy  actions   to  them  both: 
Cowards    tell   lies,   and   those   that    fear   the   rod; 
The   stormy-working    soul   spits    lies    and    froth 
Dare  to  be  true:  nothing  can  need  a  lie; 
A  fault  which  needs  it  most,  grows  two  thereby. 

"Art  thou  a  magistrate?  then  be  severe: 
If  studious,  copy  fair  what  Time  hath  blurr'd. 
Redeem    truth    from    his    jaws:    if    soldier. 
Chase  brave  employment  with  a  naked  sword 

Throughout  the  world.     Fool  not;  for  all  may  have. 
If  they  dare  try,  a  glorious  life,  or  grave. 

"Do  all  things  like  a  man,  not  sneakingly; 

Think  the  King  sees  thee  still;  for  his  King  does. 

Simpring  is  but  a  lay-hypocrisy; 

Give  it  a   corner  and  the  clue  undoes. 

Who  fears  to  do  ill  sets  himself  to  task. 

Who    fears   to   do   well   sure   should  wear  a  mask." 

There  is  all  the  strong  courage  in  these  lines  of  the 
courtier-parson.  They  make  us  remember  that  before 
he  put  on  his  priest's  robe  he  wore  a  sword.  They  are  full 
of  the  fearless  goodness  that  was  the  mark  of  his  gentle 
soul.  And  now,  to  end  the  chapter,  I  will  give  you  another 
little  poem  full  of  beauty  and  tendei-ness.  It  is  called 
The  Pulley.  Herbert  often  gave  quaint  names  to  his 
poems,  names  which  at  first  sight  seem  to  have  little  mean- 
ing. Perhaps  you  may  be  able  to  find  out  why  this  is 
called  The  Pulley. 

"When   God  at  first  made  man. 
Having  a  glass  of  blessings  standing  by, 
'Let  us,'  said  He,  'pour  on  him  all  we  can; 
Let  the  world's  riches  which  dispersed  lie, 
Contract  into  a  span.* 

"So   strength   first   made   way. 
Then  beauty  flowed,  then  wisdom,  honour,  pleasure; 
When  almost  all  was  out,  God  made  a  stay. 
Perceiving  that,  alone  of  all  His  treasure, 
Rest  in  the  bottom  lay. 


THE  PARSON  POET  369 

"  Tor  if  I  should/  said  He, 
'Bestow  this  jewel  on  My  creature. 
He  would  adore  My  gifts  instead  of  Me, 
And  rest  in  Nature,  not  the  God  of  Nature: 
So  both  should  losers  be. 

"  'Yet  let  him  keep  the  rest. 
But  keep  them  with  repining  restlessness; 
Let  him  be  rich  and  weary,  that  at  least. 
If  goodness  lead  him  not,  yet  weariness 
May  toss  him  to  my  breast.'  " 


CHAPTER  LVI 

HERRICK  AND  MARVELL— OF  BLOSSOMS  AND  BOWERS 

Another  poet  of  this  age,  Robert  Herrick,  in  himself 
joined  the  two  styles  of  poetry  of  which  we  have  been 
speaking,  for  he  was  both  a  love  poet  and  a  religious 
poet. 

He  was  born  in  1591  and  was  the  son  of  an  old,  well-to- 
do  family,  his  father  being  a  London  goldsmith.  But, 
like  Herbert,  he  lost  his  father  when  he  was  but  a  tiny 
child.  Like  Herbert  again  he  went  to  Westminster  School 
and  later  to  Cambridge.  But  before  he  went  to  Cambridge 
he  was  apprenticed  to  his  uncle,  who  was  a  goldsmith,  as 
his  brother,  Herrick's  father,  had  been.  Robert,  however, 
never  finished  his  apprenticeship.  He  found  out,  we  may 
suppose,  that  he  had  no  liking  for  the  jeweler's  craft, 
that  his  hand  was  meant  to  create  jewels  of  another  kind. 
So  he  left  his  uncle's  workshop  and  went  to  Cambridge, 
although  he  was  already  much  beyond  the  usual  age  at 
which  boys  then  went  to  college.  Like  Herbert  he  went 
to  college  meaning  to  study  for  the  Church.  But  according 
to  our  present-day  ideas  he  seems  little  fitted  to  have  been 
a  priest.  For  although  we  know  little  more  than  a  few 
bare  facts  about  Herrick's  life,  when  we  have  read  his 
poems  and  looked  at  his  portrait  we  can  draw  for  ourselves 
a  clear  picture  of  the  man,  and  the  picture  will  not  fit  in 
with  our  ideas  of  priesthood. 

In  some  ways  therefore,  as  we  have  seen,  though  there 
was  an  outward  likeness  between  the  lives  of  Herbert  and 

370 


HERRICK  AND  MARVELL  371 

of  Herrick,  it  was  only  an  outward  likeness.  Herbert 
was  tender  and  kindly,  the  very  model  of  a  Christian 
gentleman.  Herrick  was  a  jolly  old  Pagan,  full  of  a  rol- 
licking joy  in  life.  Even  in  appearance  these  two  poets 
were  different.  Herbert  was  tall  and  thin  with  a  quiet 
face  and  eyes  which  were  truly  "homes  of  silent  prayer." 
In  Herrick's  face  is  something  gross,  his  great  Roman  nose 
and  thick  curly  hair  seem  to  suit  his  pleasure-loving  nature. 
There  is  nothing  spiritual  about  him. 

After  Herrick  left  college  we  know  little  of  his  life  for 
eight  or  nine  years.  He  lived  in  London,  met  Ben  Jonson 
and  all  the  other  poets  and  writers  who  flocked  about 
great  Ben.  He  went  to  court  no  doubt,  and  all  the  time 
he  wrote  poems.  It  was  a  gay  and  cheerful  life  which, 
when  at  length  he  was  given  the  living  of  Dean  Prior  in 
Devonshire,  he  found  it  hard  to  leave. 

It  was  then  that  he  wrote  his  farewell  to  poetry.  He 
says : — 

"I,  my  desires  screw  from  thee,  and  direct 
Them  and  my  thoughts  to  that  sviblim'd  respect 
And  conscience  unto  priesthood." 

It  was  hard  to  go.  But  yet  he  pretends  at  least  to  be 
resigned,  and  he  ends  by  saying: — 

"The  crown  of  duty  is  our  duty:  Well — 
Doing's  the  fruit  of  doing  well.     Farewell." 

For  eighteen  years  Herrick  lived  in  his  Devonshire 
home,  and  we  know  little  of  these  years.  But  he  thought 
sadly  at  times  of  the  gay  days  that  were  gone.  "All,  Ben!" 
he  writes  to  Jonson, 

"Say  how,  or  when 

Shall  we  thy  guests 
Meet  at  those  lyric  feasts 

Made   at  the   Sun, 
The  Dog,  the  Triple  Tun? 


372  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Where   we   such   clusters   had. 
As  made  us  nobly  wild,  not  mad; 
And   yet  each   verse   of    thine 
Out-did  the  meat,  out-did  the  frolic  wine." 

Yet  he  was  not  without  comforts  and  companions  in  his 
country  parsonage.  His  good  and  faithful  servant  Prue 
kept  house  for  him,  and  he  surrounded  himself  with  pets. 
He  had  a  pet  lamb,  a  dog,  a  cat,  and  even  a  pet  pig  which 
he  taught  to   drink  out   of  a  mug. 

"Though  Clock, 
To  tell  how  night  draws  hence,  I've  none, 

A  Cock 
I  have,  to  sing  how  day  draws  on. 

I  have 
A  maid    (my   Prue)    by   good   luck   sent. 

To   save 
That   little.    Fates    me   gave   or   lent. 

A  Hen 
I  keep,  which,  creeking^  day  by  day. 

Tells  when 
She  goes  her  long  white  egg  to  lay. 

A   Goose 
I  have,  which,  with  a  jealous  ear, 

Lets  loose 
Her  tongue,  to  tell  what  danger's   near. 

A  Lamb 
I  keep,  tame,  with  my  morsels   fed. 

Whose  Dam 
An  orphan  left  him,  lately  dead. 

A  Cat 
I  keep,  that  plays  about  my  house. 

Grown    fat 
With  eating  many  a  miching^  mouse. 

To  these 
A  Tracy^  I  do  keep,  whereby 

I  please 
The  more  my  rural  privacy, 

^  Clucking.  '  Thieving.  '  His  spaniel. 


'Z  ?•  ■•' 

~1  <  s 

-   w. 

^  O  M 

-X  tl  f^ 


HERRICK  AND  MARVELL  373 

Which  are 
But  toys  to  give  my  heart  some  ease; 

Where  care 
None  is,  slight  things  do  lightly  please." 

But  Herrick  did  not  love  his  country  home  and  parish 
or  his  people.  We  are  told  that  the  gentry  round  about 
loved  him  "for  his  florid  and  witty  discourses."  But  his 
people  do  not  seem  to  have  loved  these  same  discourses, 
for  we  are  also  told  that  one  day  in  anger  he  threw  his 
sermon  from  the  pulpit  at  them  because  they  did  not  listen 
attentively.     He  says: — 

"More  discontents  I  never  had. 
Since  I  was  born,  than  here. 
Where  I  have  been,  and  still  am  sad. 
In  this   dull  Devonshire." 

Yet  though  Herrick  hated  Devonshire,  or  at  least  said 
so,  it  was  this  same  wild  country  that  called  forth  some 
of  his  finest  poems.  He  himself  knew  that,  for  in  the  next 
lines  he  goes  on  to  say: — 

"Yet,  justly  too,  I  must  confess 
I    ne'er    invented    such 
Ennobled  numbers  for  the  press. 
Than  where  I  loathed  so  much." 

Yet  it  is  not  the  ruggedness  of  the  Devon  land  we  feel 
in  Herrick's  poems.  We  feel  rather  the  beauty  of  flowers, 
the  warmth  of  sun,  the  softness  of  spring  winds,  and  see 
tlie  greening  trees,  the  morning  dews,  the  soft  rains.  It  is 
as  if  he  had  not  let  his  eyes  wander  over  the  wild  Devon- 
shire moorlands,  but  had  confined  them  to  his  own  lovely 
garden  and  orchard  meadow,  for  he  speaks  of  the  "dew- 
bespangled  herb  and  tree,"  the  "damasked  meadows,"  the 
"silver  shedding  brooks."  Hardly  any  English  poet  has 
written  so  tenderly  of  flowers  as  Herrick.  One  of  the  best 
known  of  these  flower  poems  is  To  Daffodils. 


874  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"Fair  Daffodils,  we  weep  to  see 
You  haste  away  so  soon; 
As  yet  the  early-rising  sun 
Has  not  attain'd  his  noon. 

Stay,   stay, 
Until  the  hasting  day 

Has  run 
But  to  the  Even-song; 
And,  having  pray'd  together,  we 
Will  go  with  you  along. 

We  have  short  time  to  stay,  as  you. 

We  have  as  short  a  spring; 
As  quick  a  growth  to  meet  decay. 
As  you,  or  anything. 

We  die 
As  your  hours  do,  and  dry 

Away, 
Like  to  the  summer's  rain; 
Or  as  the  pearls  of  morning's  dew. 
Ne'er  to  be  found  again." 

And  here  is  part  of  a  song  for  May  morning: — 

"Get  up,  get  up  for  shame,  the  blooming  morn 
Upon    her   wings    presents   the   god   unshorn. 
See  how  Aurora  throws  her   fair 
Fresh-quilted   colours  through  the  air: 
Get  up,  sweet  slug-a-bed,  and  see 
The  dew  bespangling  herb  and  tree, 
Each  flower  has  wept  and  bow'd  toward  the  east 
Above  an  hour  since;  yet  you  not  dress'd; 
Nay !  not  so  much  as  out  of  bed  ? 
When  all  the  birds  have  matins  said 
And  sung  their  thankful  hymns,  'tis  sin. 
Nay,  profanation  to  keep  in, 
Whenas  a  thousand  virgins  on  this  day 
Spring,  sooner  than  the  lark,  to  fetch  in  May. 

Rise  and  put  on  your  foliage,  and  be  seen 

To  come  forth,  like  the  Spring-time,  fresh  and  green 


HERRICK  AND  MARVELL  375 

And  sweet  as  Flora.     Take  no  care 

For  jewels  for  your  gown  or  hair; 

Fear  not ;  the  leaves  will  strew 

Gems  in  abundance  upon  you: 
Besides,  the  childhood  of  the  day  has  kept. 
Against  you  come,  some  orient  pearls  unwept; 

Come  and  receive  them  while  the  light 

Hangs  on  the  dew-locks   of  the  night: 

And  Titan  on  the  eastern  hill 

Retires  himself,  or  else  stands  still 
Till  you  come  forth.     Wash,  dress,  be  brief  in  praying; 
Few  beads  are  best  when  once  we  go  a-Maying." 

Another  well-known  poem  of  Herrick's  is: — 

"Gather  ye  rosebuds  while  ye  may. 
Old   Time   is    still   a-flying: 
And  this  same  flower  that  smiles  to-day. 
To-morrow  will  be  dying. 

The  glorious  lamp  of  Heaven,  the  Sun, 

The    higher    he's    a-getting, 
The  sooner  will  his  race  be  run. 

And  nearer  he's  to  setting. 

That  age  is  best,  which  is  the  first. 

When  Youth  and  Blood  are  warmer: 
But  being  spent,  the  worse,  and  worst 

Times  still  succeed  the  former. 

Then  be  not  coy,  but  use  your  time. 

And  while  ye  may,  go  marry; 
For  having  lost  but  once  your  prime. 

You  may   for  ever  tarry." 

Herrick  only  published  one  book.  He  called  it  TJie 
Hesperides,  or  the  works  both  Human  and  Divine.  The 
"divine"  part  although  published  in  the  same  book,  has 
a  separate  name,  being  called  his  Noble  Numbers.  The 
Hesperides,  from  whom  he  took  the  name  of  his  book,  were 
lovely  maidens  who  dwelt  in  a  beautiful  garden  far  away 


376  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

on  the  verge  of  the  ocean.  The  maidens  sang  beautifully, 
so  Herrick  took  their  name  for  his  book,  for  it  might  well 
be  that  the  songs  thej^  sang  were  such  as  his.  This  garden 
of  the  Hesperides  was  sometimes  thought  to  be  the  same 
as  the  fabled  island  of  Atlantis  of  which  we  have  already 
heard.  And  it  was  here  that,  guarded  by  a  dreadful 
dragon,  grew  the  golden  apples  which  Earth  gave  to  Hera 
on  her  marriage  with  Zeus. 

The  Hesperides  is  a  collection  of  more  than  a  thousand 
short  poems,  a  few  of  which  you  have  already  read  in  this 
chapter.  They  are  not  connected  with  each  other,  but 
tell  of  all  manner  of  things. 

Herrick  was  a  religious  poet  too,  and  here  is  something 
that  he  wrote  for  children  in  his  Noble  Numbers.  It  is 
called  To  his  Saviour,  a  Child:  A  Present  by  a  Child. 

"Go,  pretty  child,  and  bear  this  flower 
Unto  thy  little  Saviour; 
And  tell  him,  by   that  bud  now   blown. 
He  is  the  Rose  of  Sharon  known. 
When    thou   hast   said   so,   stick   it  there 
Upon  his  bib  or  stomacher; 
And    tell    Him,    for    good    handsel    too. 
That  thou  hast  brought  a  whistle  new. 
Made   of   a   clear,   straight   oaten   reed. 
To  charm  his  cries  at  time  of  need. 
Tell  Him,   for  coral,  thou  hast  none. 
But  if  thou  hadst.  He  should  have  one; 
But  poor  thou  art,  and  known  to  be 
Even  as  moneyless  as  He. 
Lastly,  if  thou  canst  win  a  kiss 
From  those  mellifluous  lips  of  His; 
Then  never  take  a  second  on, 
To   spoil  the  first  impression." 

Herrick  wrote  also  several  graces  for  children.  Here  is 
one: — 

"What  God  gives,  and  what  we  take 
'Tis  a  gift  for  Christ  His  sake: 


HERRICK  AND  MARVELL  377 

Be  the   meal   of  beans   and   peas, 
God  be  thanked  for  those  and  these: 
Have  we  flesh,  or  have  we  fish. 
All  are  fragments  from  His  dish. 
He  His  Church  save,  and  the  king; 
And  our  peace  here,  like  a  Spring, 
Make  it  ever   flourishing." 

While  Herrick  lived  his  quiet,  dull  life  and  wrote  poetry 
in  the  depths  of  Devonshire,  the  country  was  being  torn 
asunder  and  tossed  from  horror  to  horror  by  the  great 
Civil  War.  JNIen  took  sides  and  fought  for  Parliament  or 
for  King.  Year  by  year  the  quarrel  grew.  What  was 
begun  at  Edgehill  ended  at  Naseby  where  the  King's  cause 
was  utterly  lost.  Then,  although  Herrick  took  no  part  in 
the  fighting,  he  suif ered  with  the  vanquished,  for  he  was  a 
Royalist  at  heart.  He  was  turned  out  of  his  living  to  make 
room  for  a  Parliament  man.  He  left  his  parish  without 
regret. 

"Deanbourne,  farewell;  I  never  look  to  see 
Deane,   or   thy   warty   incivility. 
Thy  rocky  bottom,  that  doth  tear  thy  streams. 
And  makes  them  frantic,  ev'n  to  all  extremes; 
To  my  content,  I  never  should  behold. 
Were  thy  streams  silver,  or  thy  rocks  all  gold. 
Rocky   thou    art,    and    rocky    we    discover 
Thy  men:  and  rocky  are  thy  ways  all  over. 
O  men,  O  manners,  now  and  ever  known 
To  be  a  rocky  generation: 
A  people  currish;  churlish  as  the  seas; 
And  rude,  almost,  as  rudest  savages : 
With  whom  I  did,  and  may  re-sojourn  when 
Rocks  turn  to  rivers,  rivers  turn  to  men." 

Hastening  to  London,  he  threw  off  his  sober  priest's 
robe,  and  once  more  putting  on  the  gay  dress  worn  by  the 
gentlemen  of  his  day  he  forgot  the  troubles  and  the  dutie. 
of  a  country  parson. 


378  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Rejoicing  in  his  freedom,  he  cried: — 

"London  my  home  is:  though  by  hard  fate  sent 
Into  a  long  and  irksome  banishment; 
Yet  since  called  back;  henceforward  let  me  be, 
O  native  country,  repossess'd  by  thee." 

He  had  no  money,  but  he  had  many  wealthy  friends, 
so  he  hved,  we  may  believe,  merrily  enough  for  the  next 
fifteen  years.  It  was  during  these  years  that  the  Hesper- 
ides  was  first  published,  although  for  a  long  time  before 
many  peojDle  had  known  his  poems,  for  thej?^  had  been 
handed  about  among  his  friends  in  manuscript. 

So  the  years  passed  for  Herrick  we  hardly  know  how. 
In  the  great  world  Cromwell  died  and  Charles  ii.  returned 
to  England  to  claim  the  throne  of  his  fathers.  Then  it 
would  seem  that  Herrick  had  not  found  all  the  joy  he  had 
hoped  for  in  London,  for  two  years  later,  although  rocks 
had  not  turned  to  rivers,  nor  rivers  to  men,  he  went  back 
to  his  "loathed  Devonshire." 

After  that,  all  that  we  know  of  him  is  that  at  Dean  Prior 
"Robert  Herrick  vicker  was  buried  ye  15th  day  of  October 
1674."  Thus  in  twilight  ends  the  life  of  the  greatest  lyric 
poet    of   the    seA^enteenth    century. 

All  the  lyric  poets  of  whom  I  have  told  you  were 
Royalists,  but  the  Puritans  too  had  their  poets,  and  before 
ending  this  chapter  I  would  like  to  tell  you  a  little  of 
Andrew  INIarvell,  a  Parliamentary  poet. 

If  Herrick  v/as  a  lover  of  flowers,  JMarvell  was  a  lover  of 
gardens,  woods  and  meadows.  The  garden  poet  he  has 
been  called.    He  felt  himself  in  touch  with  Nature: — 

"Thus   1,  easy  philosopher, 
Among  the  birds  and  trees  confer. 
And  little  now  to  make  me  wants, 
Or  of  the  fowls  or  of  the  plants: 
Give  me  but  wings   as  they,  and   I 
Straight  floating  in  the  air  shall  fly; 


HERRICK  AND  MARVELL  379 

Or  turn  me  but,  and  you  shall  see 
I  was  but  an  inverted  tree."  ^ 

Yet  although  Marvell  loved  Nature,  he  did  not  live,  like 
Herrick,  far  from  the  stir  of  war,  but  took  his  part  in  the 
strife  of  the  times.  He  was  an  important  man  in  his  day. 
He  was  known  to  Cromwell  and  was  a  friend  of  ^Milton, 
a  poet  much  greater  than  himself.  He  was  a  member  of 
Parliament,  and  wrote  much  prose,  but  the  quarrels  in  the 
cause  of  which  it  was  written  are  matters  of  bygone  days, 
and  although  some  of  it  is  still  interesting,  it  is  for  his 
poetry  rather  that  we  remember  and  love  him.  Although 
Marvell  was  a  Parliamentarian,  he  did  not  love  Cromwell 
blindly,  and  he  could  admire  what  was  fine  in  King  Charles. 
He  could  say  of  Cromwell: — 

"Though  his  Government  did  a  tyrant  resemble, 
He  made  England  great,  and  his  enemies  tremble."  ^ 

And  no  one  perhaps  wrote  with  more  grave  sorrow  of 
the  death  of  Charles  than  did  Marvell,  and  that  too  in  a 
poem  which,  strangely  enough,  was  written  in  honor  of 
Cromwell. 

"He  nothing  common  did,  or  mean. 
Upon  that  memorable  scene. 

But  with  his  keener  eye 

The  axe's  edge  did  try: 
Nor  called  the  gods  with  vulgar  spite 
To  vindicate  his   helpless   right, 

But  bowed  his  comely  head, 

Down,  as  upon  a  bed."  ^ 

At  Cromwell's  death  he  wrote: — • 

"Thee,  many  ages  hence,  in  martial  verse 
Shall  the  English  soldier,  ere  he  charge,  rehearse; 

^  Appleton  House,  to  the  Lord  Fairfax. 

'A  Dialogue  between  two  Horses. 

'An  Horatian  ode  upon  CromwelVs  return  from  Ireland. 


380  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Singing  of  thee,  inflame  himself  to  fight 

And,  with  the  name  of  Cromwell,  armies  fright 


'» 1 


But  all  Marvell's  writings  were  not  political,  and  one  of 
his  prettiest  poems  was  written  about  a  girl  mourning  for 
a  lost  pet. 

"The  wanton  troopers  riding  by 
Have  shot  my  fawn,  and  it  will  die. 
Ungentle  men !   they   cannot   thrive 
Who  killed  thee.     Thou  ne'er  didst  alive 
Them   any  harm :   alas !  nor   could 
Thy  death  yet  do  them  any  good. 

With  sweetest  milk  and  sugar,  first 

I  it  at  my  own  fingers  nurs'd; 

And  as  it  grew,  so  every  day 

It  wax'd  more  sweet  and  white  than  they. 

It  had  so  sweet  a  breath !     And  oft 

I  blushed  to  see  its  foot  so  soft. 

And  white  (shall  I  say  than  my  hand?) 

Nay,  any  lady's  of  the  land. 

It  is  a  wondrous  thing  how  fleet 
'Twas  on  those  little  silver  feet; 
With  what  a  pretty  skipping  grace 
It  oft  would  challenge  me  to  race; 
And  when  't  had  left  me  far  away, 
'Twould  stay,  and  run  again,  and  stay; 
For  it  was  nimbler  much  than  hinds. 
And  trod  as  if  on  the  four  winds. 

I  have  a  garden  of  my  own. 
But  so  with  roses  overgrown 
And  lilies,  that  you  would  it  guess 
To  be  a  little  wilderness; 
And  all  the  spring-time  of  the  year 
It  only  loved  to  be  there. 
Among  the  lilies,  I 
Have  sought  it  oft,  where  it  should  lie 


Upon  the  Death  of  the  Lord  Protector. 


HERRICK  AND  MARVELL  381 

Yet  could  notj  till  itself  would  rise, 
Find  it,  although  before  mine   eyes; 
For  in  the  flaxen  lilies'  shade. 
It  like  a  bank  of  lilies  laid. 
Upon  the  roses  it  would  feed, 
Until  its  lips  even  seemed  to  bleed; 
And  then  to  me  'twould  boldly  trip 
And  plant  those  roses  on  my  lip. 

Now  my  sweet  fawn  is  vanish'd  to 

Whither  the  swans  and  turtles  go; 

In   fair  Elysium  to  endure, 

With  milk-white  lambs  and  ermines  pure, 

O  do  not  run  too  fast:  for  I 

Will  but  bespeak  thy  grave,  and  die." 

After  the  Restoration  Marvell  wrote  satires,  a  kind  of 
poem  of  which  you  had  an  early  and  mild  example  in  the 
fable  of  the  two  mice  by  Surrey,  a  kind  of  poem  of  which 
we  will  soon  hear  much  more.  In  these  satires  Marvell 
poured  out  all  the  wrath  of  a  Puritan  upon  the  evils  of  his 
day.  Marvell's  satires  were  so  witty  and  so  outspoken 
that  once  or  twice  he  was  in  danger  of  punishment  because 
of  them.  But  once  at  least  the  King  himself  saved  a  book 
of  his  from  being  destroyed,  for  by  every  one  *'from  the 
King  down  to  the  tradesman  his  books  were  read  with 
great  pleasure."  ^  Yet  he  had  many  enemies,  and  when  he 
died  suddenly  in  August,  1678,  many  people  thought  that 
he  had  been  poisoned.  He  was  the  last,  we  may  say,  of  the 
seventeenth-century   lyric   poets. 

Besides  the  lyric  writers  there  were  many  prose  writers 
in  the  seventeenth  century  who  are  among  the  men  to  be 
remembered.  But  their  books,  although  some  day  you 
will  love  them,  would  not  interest  you  yet.  They  tell  no 
story,  they  are  long,  they  have  not,  like  poetry,  a  lilt  or 
rhythm  to  carry  one  on.     It  would  be  an  effort  to  read 

*  Burnet. 


382  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

them.  If  I  tried  to  explain  to  you  wherein  the  charm  of 
them  lies  I  fear  the  charm  would  fly,  for  it  is  impossible  to 
imprison  the  sunbeam  or  find  the  foundations  of  the  rain- 
bow. It  is  better  therefore  to  leave  these  books  until  the 
years  come  in  which  it  will  be  no  effort  to  read  them, 
but  a  joy. 


CHAPTER  LVII 

MILTON— SIGHT  AND  GROWTH 

"There  is  but  one  Milton,"  ^  there  is,  too,  but  one  Shake- 
speare, yet  John  Milton,  far  more  than  William 
Shakespeare,  stands  a  lonely  figure  in  our  literature. 
Shakespeare  was  a  dramatist  among  dramatists.  We  can 
see  how  there  were  those  who  led  up  to  him,  and  others 
again  who  led  away  from  him.  From  each  he  differs  in 
being  greater,  he  outshines  them  all.  Shakespeare  was 
a  man  among  men.  He  loved  and  sinned  with  men,  he 
was  homely  and  kindly,  and  we  can  take  him  to  our 
hearts.  Milton  both  in  his  life  and  work  was  cold  and 
lonely.  He  was  a  master  without  scholars,  a  leader  with- 
out followers.  Him  we  can  admire,  but  cannot  love  with  an 
understanding  love.  Yet  although  we  love  Shakespeare  we 
can  find  throughout  all  his  works  hardly  a  line  upon  which 
we  can  place  a  finger  and  say  here  Shakespeare  speaks  of 
himself,  here  he  shows  what  he  himself  thought  and  felt. 
Shakespeare  understood  human  nature  so  well  that  he 
could  see  through  another's  eyes  and  so  forget  himself. 
But  over  and  over  again  in  ISIilton's  work  we  see  himself. 
Over  and  over  again  we  can  say  here  Milton  speaks  of 
himself,  here  he  shows  us  his  own  heart,  his  own  pain.  He 
is  one  of  the  most  self-ful  of  all  poets.  He  has  none  of  the 
dramatic  power  of  Shakespeare,  he  cannot  look  through 
another's  eyes,  so  he  sees  things  only  from  one  standpoint 
and  that  his  own.     He  stands  far  apart  from  us,  and  is 

'  Professor  Raleigh. 
3^ 


384  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

almost  inhumanly  cold.  That  is  the  reason  why  so  many 
of  us  find  him  hard  to  love. 

When,  on  a  bleak  December  day  in  1606,  more  than 
three  hundred  years  ago,  ISIilton  was  born,  Elizabeth  was 
dead,  and  James  of  Scotland  sat  upon  the  throne,  but 
many  of  the  great  Elizabethans  still  lived.  Shakespeare 
was  still  writing,  still  acting,  although  he  had  become 
a  man  of  wealth  and  importance  and  the  owner  of  New 
Place.  Ben  Jonson  was  at  the  very  height  of  his  fame, 
the  favorite  alike  of  Court  and  Commons.  Bacon  was 
just  rising  to  power  and  greatness,  his  Novum  Organum 
still  to  come.  Raleigh,  in  prison,  was  eating  his  heart  out 
in  the  desire  for  freedom,  trying  to  while  away  the  dreary 
hours  with  chemical  experiments,  his  great  history  not  yet 
begun.  Of  the  crowd  of  lyric  writers  some  were  boys  at 
college,  some  but  children  in  the  nursery,  and  some  still 
unborn.  Yet  in  spite  of  the  many  writers  who  lived  at  or 
about  the  same  time,  JNIilton  stands  alone  in  our  literature. 

John  jMilton  was  the  son  of  a  London  scrivener,  that  is, 
a  kind  of  lawyer.  He  was  well-to-do  and  a  Puritan.  Mil- 
ton's home,  however,  must  have  been  brighter  than  many 
a  Puritan  home,  for  his  father  loved  music,  and  not  only 
played  well,  but  also  composed.  He  taught  his  son  to 
play  too,  and  all  through  his  life  Milton  loved  music. 

John  was  a  pretty  little  boy  with  long  golden  brown  hair, 
a  fair  face  and  dark  gray  eyes.  But  to  many  a  strict  Puri- 
tan, beauty  was  an  abomination,  and  we  are  told  that  one 
of  Milton's  schoolmasters  "was  a  Puritan  in  Essex  who  cut 
his  hair  short."  No  doubt  to  him  a  boy  with  long  hair 
was  unseemly.  John  was  the  eldest  and  much  beloved 
son  of  his  father,  who  perhaps  petted  and  spoiled  him. 
He  was  clever  as  well  as  pretty,  and  already  at  the  age  of 
ten  he  was  looked  upon  by  his  family  as  a  poet.  He  was 
very  studious,  for  besides  going  to  St.  Paul's  School  he  had 
a  private   tutor.     Even  with   that   he   was   not   satisfied, 


SIGHT  AND  GROWTH  385 

but  studied  alone  far  into  the  night.  "When  he  went  to 
schoole,  when  he  was  very  young,"  we  are  told,  "he 
studied  hard  and  sate  up  very  late:  commonly  till  twelve 
or  one  at  night.  And  his  father  ordered  the  mayde  to  sitt 
up  for  him.  And  in  those  j^ears  he  composed  many  copies 
of  verses,  which  might  well  become  a  riper  age."  ^  We  can 
imagine  to  ourselves  the  silence  of  the  house,  when  all  the 
Puritan  household  had  been  long  abed.  We  can  picture 
the  warm  quiet  room  where  sits  the  little  fair-haired  boy 
poring  over  his  books  by  the  light  of  flickering  candles, 
while  in  the  shadow  a  stern-faced  white-capped  Puritan 
woman  waits.  She  sits  very  straight  in  her  chair,  her  worn 
hands  are  folded,  her  eyes  heavy  with  sleep.  Sometimes 
she  nods.  Then  with  a  start  she  shakes  herself  wide  awake 
again,  murmuring  softly  that  it  is  no  hour  for  any  Christian 
body  to  be  out  o'  bed,  wondering  that  her  master  should 
allow  so  young  a  child  to  keep  so  long  over  his  books. 
Still  she  has  her  orders,  so  with  a  patient  sigh  she  folds 
her  hands  again  and  waits.  Thus  early  did  Milton  begin 
to  shape  his  own  course  and  to  live  a  life  apart  from 
others. 

At  sixteen  Milton  went  to  Christ's  College,  Cambridge. 
And  here  he  earned  for  himself  the  name  of  the  Lady  of 
Christ's,  both  because  of  his  beautiful  face  and  slender 
figure,  and  because  he  stood  haughtily  aloof  from  amuse- 
ments which  seemed  to  him  coarse  or  bad.  In  going  to 
Cambridge,  Milton  had  meant  to  study  for  the  Church. 
But  all  through  life  he  stood  for  liberty.  "He  thought 
that  man  was  made  only  for  rebellion,"  said  a  later  writer.^ 
As  a  child  he  had  gone  his  own  way,  and  as  he  grew  older 
he  found  it  harder  and  harder  to  agree  with  all  that  the 
Church  taught — ^"till  coming  to  some  maturity  of  years, 
and  perceiving  what  tyranny  had  invaded  in  the  Church, 
that  he  who  would  take  orders  must  subscribe  slave,  and 

*  Aubrey.  '  Johnson. 


386  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

take  an  oath  withal.  ...  I  thought  it  better  to  prefer  a 
blameless  silence  before  the  sacred  office  of  speaking, 
bought  and  begun  with  servitude  and  forswearing."  Thus 
was  he,  he  says,  "church-outed  by  the  Prelates."  ^  Milton 
could  not,  with  a  free  conscience,  become  a  clergyman, 
so  having  taken  his  degree  he  went  home  to  his  father, 
who  now  lived  in  the  country  at  Horton.  He  left  Cam- 
bridge without  regrets.  No  thrill  of  pleasure  seemed  to 
have  warmed  his  heart  in  after  days  when  he  looked  back 
upon  the  young  years  spent  beside  the  Cam. 

Milton  went  home  to  his  father's  house  without  any 
settled  plan  of  life.  He  had  not  made  up  his  mind  what 
he  was  to  be,  he  was  only  sure  that  he  could  not  be  a 
clergyman.  His  father  was  well  oif,  but  not  wealthy. 
He  had  no  great  estates  to  manage,  and  he  must  have 
wished  his  eldest  son  to  do  and  be  something  in  the  world, 
yet  he  did  not  urge  it  upon  him.  Milton  himself,  however, 
was  not  quite  at  rest,  as  his  sonnet  On  his  being  arrived  to 
the  age  of  twenty-three  shows: — 

"How  soon  liath  Time,  the  subtle  thief  of  youth. 
Stolen  on  his  wing  my  three-and-twentieth  year: 
My  hasting  days  fly  on  with  full  career, 
But  my  late  Spring  no  bud  or  blossom  show'th. 
Perhaps  my  semblance  might  deceive  the  truth. 
That  I  to  manhood  am  arriv'd  so  near, 
And  inward  ripeness  doth  much  less  appear. 
That  some  more  timely  happy  spirits  endu'th. 
Yet   be   it   less    or    more,    or    soon    or    slow. 
It  shall  be  still  in  strictest  measure  even 
To  that  same  lot,  however  mean,  or  high. 
Toward  which  Time  leads  me;  and  the  Will  of  Heaven; 
All  is,  if  I  have  grace  to  use  it  so. 
As  ever  in  my  great  Task-Master's  eye." 

Yet  dissatisfied  as  he  sometimes  was,  he  was  very  sure 
of  himself,  and  for  five  years  he  let  his  wings  grow,  as  he 

^  The  Reason  of  Church   Government,  book   ii. 


SIGHT  AND  GROWTH  387 

himself  said.  But  these  years  were  not  altogether  lost, 
for  if  both  day  and  night  INIilton  roamed  the  meadows 
about  his  home  in  seeming  idleness,  he  was  drinking  in  all 
the  beauty  of  earth  and  sky,  flower  and  field,  storing  his 
memory  with  sights  and  sounds  that  were  to  be  a  treas- 
ure to  him  in  after  days.  He  studied  hard,  too,  rang- 
ing at  will  through  Greek  and  Latin  literature.  "No 
delay,  no  rest,  no  care  or  thought  almost  of  anything 
holds  me  aside  until  I  reach  the  end  I  am  making  for, 
and  round  off,  as  it  were,  some  great  period  of  my  studies," 
he  says  to  a  friend.  And  as  the  outcome  of  these 
five  fallow  years  Milton  has  left  us  some  of  his  most 
beautiful  j)C)ems.  They  have  not  the  stately  grandeur  of 
his  later  works,  but  they  are  natural  and  easy,  and  at 
times  full  of  a  joyousness  which  we  never  find  in  him  again. 
And  before  we  can  admire  his  great  poem  which  he  wrote 
later,  we  may  love  the  beauty  of  JL' Allegro,  II  Penseroso 
and  JLycidas,  which  he  wrote  now. 

L' Allegro  and  II  Penseroso  are  two  poems  which  pic- 
ture two  moods  in  which  the  poet  looks  at  life.  They 
are  two  moods  which  come  to  every  one,  the  mirthful  and 
the  sad.  L^ Allegro  pictures  the  happy  mood.  Here  the 
man  "who  has,  in  his  heart,  cause  for  contentment"  sings. 
And  the  poem  fairly  dances  with  delight  of  being  as  it 
follows  the  day  from  dawn  till  evening  shadows  fall.  It 
begins  by  bidding  "loathed  Melancholy"  begone  "  'Mongst 
horrid  shapes,  and  shrieks,  and  sights  unholy,"  and  by 
bidding  come  "heart-easing  Mirth." 

"Haste  thee,  nymph,  and  bring  with  thee 
Jest  and  youthful  Jollity, 
Quips  and  cranks,  and  wanton  wiles, 
Nods  and  becks,  and  wretched  smiles. 
Such  as  hang  on  Hebe's  cheek, 
And  love  to  live  in  dimple  sleek; 
Sport  that  wrinkled   Care  derides. 
And  Laughter  holding  both  his  sides. 


388  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Come,  and  trip  it  as  ye  go 
On  the  light  fantastic  toe. 

To  hear  the  lark  begin  his  flight. 
And  singing  startle  the  dull  night, 
From  his  watch-tower  in  the  skies, 
Till  the  dappled  dawn  doth  rise." 

These  are  a  few  lines  from  the  opening  of  the  poem 
which  you  must  read  for  yourselves,  for  if  I  quoted  all  that 
is  beautiful  in  it  I  should  quote  the  whole. 

II  Penseroso  pictures  the  thoughtful  mood,  or  mood 
of  gentle  JNIelancholy.  Here  Mirth  is  banished,  "Hence 
fair  deluding  joys,  the  brood  of  Folly,  and  hail  divinest 
Melancholy."  The  poem  moves  with  more  stately  measure, 
"with  even  step,  and  musing  gait,"  from  evening  through 
the  moonlit  night  till  morn.  It  ends  with  the  poet's  de- 
sire to  live  a  peaceful  studious  life. 

"But  let  my  due  feet  never  fail 
To  walk  the  studious  cloisters  pale; 
And  love  the  high  embowed  roof, 
With  antique  pillars  massy  proof. 
And  storied  windows  richly  dight. 
Casting    a    dim    religious    light. 
There  let  the  pealing  organ  blow 
To   the   full-voic'd   choir  below. 
In  service  high,  and  anthems  clear. 
As  may  with  sweetness  through  mine  ear. 
Dissolve  me  into  ecstasies, 
And  bring  all  Heaven  before  mine  eyes." 

In  JLycidas  IMilton  mourns  the  death  of  a  friend  who 
was  drowned  while  crossing  the  Irish  Channel.  He  took 
the  name  from  an  Italian  poem,  which  told  of  the  sad 
death  of  another  Lycidas.  The  verse  moves  with  even 
more  stately  measure  than  II  Penseroso. 

"Bitter  constraint,  and  sad  occasion  dear. 
Compels  me  to  disturb  your  season  due: 


SIGHT  AND  GROWTH  389 

For  Lj^cidas  is  dead,  dead  ere  his  prime. 
Young  Lycidas,  and  hath  not  left  his  peer : 
Who  would  not  sing  for  Lycidas?  he  knew 
Himself  to  sing,  and  build  the  lofty  rhyme. 

Fame  is  the  spur  that  the  clear  spirit  doth  raise, 
(That  last  infirmity  of  noble  minds) 
To  scorn  delights,  and  live  laborious  days; 
But  the  fair  guerdon  when  we  hope  to  find. 
And  think  to  burst  out  into  sudden  blaze. 
Comes  the  blind  Fury  with  th'  abhorred  shears. 
And  slits  the  thin-spun  life." 

It  was  during  these  early  years  spent  at  Horton,  too, 
that  Milton  wrote  his  masque  of  Comus,  It  is  strange  to 
find  a  Puritan  poet  writing  a  masque,  for  Puritans  looked 
darkly  on  all  acting.  It  is  strange  to  find  that,  in  spite  of 
the  Puritan  dislike  to  acting,  the  last  and,  perhaps,  the 
best  masque  in  our  language  should  be  written  by  a  Puritan, 
and  that  not  ten  years  before  ail  the  theaters  in  the  land 
were  closed  by  Puritan  orders.  But  although,  in  many 
ways,  Milton  was  sternly  Puritan,  these  were  only  the  better 
ways.  He  had  no  hatred  of  beauty,  "God  has  instilled 
into  me  a  vehement  love  of  the  beautiful,"  he  says. 

The  masque  of  Comus  was  written  for  a  great  enter- 
tainment given  by  the  Earl  of  Bridgewater,  at  Ludlow 
Castle,  and  three  of  his  children  took  part  in  it.  In  a 
darksome  wood,  so  the  story  runs,  the  enchanter,  Comus, 
lived  with  his  rabble  rout,  half  brute,  half  man.  For  to  all 
who  passed  through  the  wood  Comus  offered  a  glass  from 
which,  if  any  drank, — 

"Their  human  countenance, 
Th'  express  resemblance  of  the  gods,  is  changed 
Into  some  brutish  form  of  wolf,  or  bear. 
Or  ounce,  or  tiger,  hog,  or  bearded  goat. 
All  other  parts  remaining  as  they  were." 

And  they,  forgetting  their  home  and  friends,  henceforth 
live  riotously  with  Comus. 


390  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Through  this  wood  a  Lady  and  her  two  brothers  pass, 
and  on  the  way  the  Lady  is  separated  from  her  brothers 
and  loses  her  way.  As  she  wanders  about  she  is  dis- 
covered by  Comus  who,  disguising  himself  as  a  shepherd, 
offers  her  shelter  in  his  "low  but  loyal  cottage."  The 
Lady,  innocent  and  trusting,  follows  him.  But  instead  of 
leading  her  to  a  cottage  he  leads  her  to  his  palace.  There 
the  Lady  is  placed  in  an  enchanted  chair  from  which  she 
cannot  rise,  and  Comus  tempts  her  to  drink  from  his  magic 
glass.  The  Lady  refuses,  and  with  his  magic  wand  Comus 
turns  her  to  seeming  stone. 

Meanwhile  the  brothers  have  met  a  Guardian  Spirit, 
also  disguised  as  a  shepherd,  and  he  warns  them  of  their 
sister's  danger.  Guided  by  him  they  set  out  to  find  her. 
Reaching  the  palace,  they  rush  in,  sword  in  hand.  They 
dash  the  magic  glass  to  the  ground  and  break  it  in  pieces 
and  put  Comus  and  his  rabble  to  flight.  But  though  the 
Lady  is  thus  saved  she  remains  motionless  and  stony  in  her 
chair. 

"What,  have  ye  let  the  false  enchanter  scape?"  the 
Guardian  Spirit  cries.  "Oh,  ye  mistook,  ye  should  have 
snatched  his  w^and  and  bound  him  fast."  Without  his  rod 
reversed  and  backward-muttered  incantations  they  cannot 
free  the  Lady.  Yet  there  is  another  means.  Sabrina, 
the  nymph  of  the  Severn,  may  save  her.  So  the  Spirit 
calls  upon  her  for  aid. 

"Sabrina  fair, 
Listen  where  thou  art  sitting 
Under  the  glassy,  cool,  translucent  wave. 
In  twisted  braids  of  lilies  knitting 
The  loose  train  of  thy  amber-dropping  hair, 
Listen  for  dear  honour's  sake. 
Goddess  of  the  silver  lake, 

Listen  and  save." 

Sabrina  comes,  and  sprinkling  water  on  the  Lady,  breaks 
the  charm. 


SIGHT  AND  GROWTH  391 

"Brightest  Lady,  look  on  me; 
Thus   I    sprinkle   on  thy   breast 
Drops  that  from  my  fountain  pure 
I   have   kept   of   precious    cure. 
Thrice    upon    thy    fingers'    tip. 
Thrice   upon   thy   rubied   lip; 
Next  this  marble  venomed  seat. 
Smeared  with  gums  of  glutinous  heat, 
I  touch  with  chaste  palms  moist  and  cold: 
Now  the  spell  hath  lost  its  hold." 

The  Lady  is  free  and,  greatly  rejoicing,  the  Guardian 
Spirit  leads  her,  v/ith  her  brothers,  safe  to  their  father's 
home. 

All  these  poems  of  which  I  have  told  you,  Milton  wrote 
during  the  quiet  years  spent  at  Horton.  But  at  length 
these  days  came  to  an  end.  He  began  to  feel  his  life  in 
the  country  cramped  and  narrow.  He  longed  to  go  out 
into  the  great  wide  world  and  see  something  of  all  the 
beauties  and  wonder  of  it.  Italy,  which  had  called  so 
many  of  our  poets,  called  him.  Once  more  his  kindly 
father  let  him  do  as  he  would.  He  gave  him  money, 
provided  him  with  a  servant,  and  sent  him  forth  on  his 
travels.  For  more  than  a  year  Milton  wandered,  chiefly 
among  the  sunny  cities  of  Italy.  He  meant  to  stray  still 
further  to  Sicily  and  Greece,  but  news  from  home  called 
him  back,  "The  sad  news  of  Civil  War."  "I  thought  it  base," 
he  said,  "that  while  my  fellow-countrymen  were  fighting 
at  home  for  liberty,  I  should  be  traveling  abroad  at  ease." 

When  Milton  returned  home  he  did  not  go  back  to 
Horton,  but  set  up  house  in  London.  Here  he  began  to 
teach  his  two  nephews,  his  sister's  children,  who  were 
boys  of  nine  and  ten.  Their  father  had  died,  their  mother 
married  again,  and  Milton  not  only  taught  the  boj^s,  but 
took  them  to  live  with  him.  He  found  pleasure,  it  would 
seem,  in  teaching,  for  soon  his  little  class  grew,  and  he 
began  to  teach  other  boys,   the   sons   of  friends. 


392  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Milton  was  a  good  master,  but  a  severe  one.  The  boys 
were  kept  long  hours  at  their  lessons,  and  Ave  are  told  that 
in  a  year's  time  they  could  read  a  Latin  author  at  sight, 
and  within  three  years  they  went  througli  the  best  Latin 
and  Greek  poets.  But  "as  he  was  severe  on  one  hand,  so 
he  was  most  familiar  and  free  in  his  conversation  to  those 
to  whom  most  sour  in  his  way  of  education."  ^  He  himself 
showed  the  example  of  "hard  study  and  spare  diet,"  ^  for 
besides  teaching  the  boys  he  worked  and  wrote  steadily, 
study  being  ever  the  "grand  affair  of  his  life."  ^  Only  now 
and  again  he  went  to  see  "young  sparks"  of  his  acquaint- 
ance, "and  now  and  then  to  keep  a  gawdy-day."  ^  It  is 
scarce  to  be  imagined  that  a  gawdy-day  in  which  John 
Milton  took  part  could  have  been  very  riotous. 

Then  after  IMilton  had  been  leading  this  severe  quiet  life 
for  about  four  years,  a  strange  thing  happened.  One  day 
he  set  off  on  a  journey.  He  told  no  one  why  he  went. 
Every  one  thought  it  was  but  a  pleasure  jaunt.  He  was 
away  about  a  month,  then  "home  he  returns  a  married 
man  that  went  out  a  bachelor."  ^  We  can  imagine  how 
surprised  the  little  boys  would  be  to  find  that  their  grave 
teacher  of  thirty-four  had  brought  home  a  wife,  a  wife,  too, 
who  was  little  more  than  a  girl  a  few  years  older  than 
themselves.  And  as  it  was  a  surprise  to  them  it  is  still  a 
surprise  to  all  who  read  and  write  about  JSIilton's  life  to 
this  day.  With  the  new  wife  came  several  of  her  friends, 
and  so  the  quiet  house  was  made  gay  with  feasting  and 
merriment  for  a  few  days;  for  strange  to  saj^,  INIilton,  the 
stern  Puritan,  had  married  a  Royalist  lady,  the  daughter  of 
a  cavalier.  After  these  few  merry  days  the  gay  friends 
left,  and  the  young  bride  remained  behind  with  her  grave 
and  learned  husband,  in  her  new  quiet  home.  But  to  poor 
little  Mary  Milton,  used  to  a  great  house  and  much  merry 
coming  and  going,  the  life  she  now  led  seemed  dull  beyond 

*  Aubrey.  ^  Philijjs.  '  The    same.  *  The    same.  ^  The   same. 


SIGHT  AND  GROWTH  393 

bearing.  She  was  not  clever;  indeed,  she  was  rather 
stupid,  so  after  having  led  a  "philosophical  life"  for  about 
a  month,  she  begged  to  be  allowed  to  go  back  to  her 
mother. 

Milton  let  her  go  on  the  understanding  that  she  should 
return  to  him  in  a  month  or  two.  But  the  time  appointed 
came  and  went  without  any  sign  of  a  returning  wife.  Mil- 
ton wrote  to  her  and  got  no  answer.  Several  times  he 
wrote,  and  still  no  answer.  Then  he  sent  a  messenger. 
But  the  messenger  returned  w^ithout  an  ansv/er,  or  at  least 
without  a  pleasing  one.  He  had  indeed  been  "dismissed 
with  some  sort  of  contempt." 

It  would  seem  the  cavalier  family  regretted  having 
given  a  daughter  in  marriage  to  the  Puritan  poet.  The 
poet,  on  his  side,  now  resolved  to  cast  out  forever  from 
his  heart  and  home  his  truant  wife.  He  set  himself 
harder  than  before  to  the  task  of  writing  and  teaching. 
He  hid  his  aching  heart  and  hurt  pride  as  best  he  might 
beneath  a  calm  and  stern  bearing.  But  life  had  changed 
for  him.  Up  to  this  time  all  had  gone  as  he  wished. 
Ever  since,  when  a  boy  of  twelve,  he  had  sat  till  midnight 
over  his  books  with  a  patient  waiting-maid  beside  him, 
those  around  had  smoothed  his  path  in  life  for  him.  His 
will  had  been  law  until  a  girl  of  seventeen  defied  him. 

Time  went  on,  the  King's  cause  was  all  but  hopeless. 
IMany  a  cavalier  had  lost  all  in  his  defense,  among  them 
those  of  JNIary  JNIilton's  family.  Driven  from  their  home, 
knowing  hardly  where  to  turn  for  shelter,  they  bethought 
them  of  Mary's  slighted  husband.  He  was  on  the  winning 
side,  and  a  man  of  growing  importance.  Beneath  his  roof 
Mary  at  least  would  be  safe. 

The  poor  little  runaway  wife,  we  may  believe,  was 
afraid  to  face  her  angiy  husband.  But  helped  both  by 
his  friends  and  her  own  a  meeting  was  arranged.  JNIilton 
had  a  friend  to  whose  house  he  often  went,  and  in  this 


394  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

house  his  wife  was  hid  one  day  when  the  poet  came  to  pay 
a  visit.  While  Milton  waited  for  his  friend  he  was  sur- 
prised, for  when  the  door  opened  there  came  from  the 
adjoining  room,  not  his  friend,  but  "one  whom  he  thought 
to  have  never  seen  more."  Mary  his  wife  came  to  him, 
and  sinking  upon  her  knees  before  him  begged  to  be  for- 
given. Long  after,  in  his  great  poem,  IMilton  seems  to 
describe  the  scene  when  he  makes  Adam  cry  out  to  Eve 
after  the  Fall,  "Out  of  my  sight,  thou  serpent!  That 
name  best  befits  thee." 

"But  Eve, 
Not  so  repulsed,  with  tears  that  ceased  not  flowing. 
And  tresses  all  disordered,  at  his  feet 
Fell  humble,  and,  embracing  them,  besought 
His  peace;  and  thus  proceeded  in  her  plaint: 

'Forsake  me  not  thus,  Adam !     Witness,  Heaven, 
What  love  sincere,  and  reverence  in  my  heart 
I   bear   thee,   and   unweeting   have   offended, 
Unhappily    deceived !      Thy    suppliant 
I  beg,  and  clasp  thy  knees.     Bereave  me  not. 
Whereon  I  live,  thy  gentle  looks,  thy  aid, 
Thy  counsel  in  this  uttermost  distress. 
My  only  strength  and  stay.     Forlorn  of  thee. 
Whither  shall  I  betake  me?  where  subsist.'' 
While  yet  we  live,  scarce  one  short  hour  perhaps. 
Between  us  two  let  there  be  peace.' 

She  ended  weeping;  and  her  lowly  plight. 
Immovable  till  peace   obtained   from   fault 
Acknowledged  and  deplored,  in  Adam  wrought 
Commiseration.     Soon  his  heart  relented 
Towards  her,  his  life  so  late  and  sole  delight. 
Now  at  his   feet  submissive  in  distress. 
Creature  so  fair  his  reconcilement  seeking, 
His  counsel,  whom  she  had  displeased,  his  aid; 
As  one  disarmed,  his  anger  all  he  lost. 
And  thus  with  peaceful  words  upraised  her  soon." 

Milton  thus  took  back  to  his  home  his  wandering  wife 


SIGHT  AND  GROWTH  395 

and  not  her  only,  but  also  her  father,  mother,  and  homeless 
brothers  and  sisters.  So  although  he  had  moved  to  a 
larger  house,  it  was  now  full  to  overflowing,  for  besides 
all  this  Royalist  family  he  had  living  with  him  his  pupils 
and  his  own  old  father. 


CHAPTER  LVIII 

MILTON— DARKNESS  AND  DEATH 

And  now  for  twenty  years  the  pen  of  Milton  was  used,  not 
for  poetry,  but  for  prose.  The  poet  became  a  poKtician. 
Victory  was  still  uncertain,  and  Milton  poured  out  book 
after  book  in  support  of  the  Puritan  cause.  These  books 
are  full  of  wrath  and  scorn  and  all  the  bitter  passion  of  the 
time.  They  have  hardly  a  place  in  true  literature,  so  we 
may  pass  them  over  glad  that  IMilton  found  it  possible  to 
spend  his  bitterness  in  prose  and  leave  his  poetry  what 
it  is. 

One  only  of  his  prose  works  is  still  remembered  and  still 
read  for  its  splendid  English.  That  is  Ai^eopagitica,  a 
passionate  appeal  for  a  free  press.  Milton  desired  that  a 
man  should  have  not  only  freedom  of  thought,  but  freedom 
to  write  down  and  print  and  publish  these  thoughts.  But 
the  rulers  of  England,  ever  since  printing  had  been  intro- 
duced, had  thought  otherwise,  and  by  law  no  book  could 
be  printed  until  it  had  been  licensed,  and  no  man  might 
set  up  a  printing  press  without  permission  from  Govern- 
ment. To  jMilton  this  was  tyranny.  "As  good  almost  kill 
a  man  as  kill  a  good  book,"  he  said,  and  again  "Give  me 
the  liberty  to  know,  to  utter,  and  to  argue  freely  according 
to  my  conscience  above  all  liberties."  He  held  the  licensing 
law  in  contempt,  and  to  show  his  contempt  he  published 
Areopagiticsi  without  a  license  and  without  giving  the 
printer's  or  bookseller's  name.  It  was  not  the  first  time 
Milton  had  done  this,  and  his  enemies  tried  to  use  it  against 

396 


DARKNESS  AND  DEATH  397 

him  to  bring  him  into  trouble.  But  he  had  become  by 
this  time  too  important  a  man,  and  nothing  came  of  it. 

Time  went  on,  the  bitter  struggle  between  King  and 
people  came  to  an  end.  The  people  triumphed,  and  the 
King  laid  his  head  upon  the  block.  Britain  was  without 
ruler  other  than  Parliament.  It  was  then,  one  March  day 
in  1649,  that  a  few  grave-faced,  somber-clad  men  knocked 
at  the  door  of  Milton's  house.  We  can  imagine  them 
tramping  into  the  poet's  low-roofed  study,  their  heavy 
shoes  resounding  on  the  bare  floor,  their  sad  faces  shaded 
wath  their  tall  black  hats.  And  there,  in  sing-song  voices, 
they  tell  the  astonished  man  that  they  come  from  Parlia- 
ment to  ask  him  to  be  Secretary  for  Foreign  Tongues. 

Milton  was  astonished,  but  he  accepted  the  post.  And 
now  his  life  became  a  very  busy  one.  It  had  been  decided 
that  all  letters  to  foreign  powers  should  be  written  in 
Latin,  but  many  Governments  wrote  to  England  in  their 
own  languages.  Milton  had  to  translate  these  letters, 
answer  them  in  Latin,  and  also  write  little  books  or 
pamphlets  in  answer  to  those  which  were  written  against 
the    Government. 

It  was  while  he  was  busy  with  this,  w^hile  he  was  pouring 
out  bitter  abuse  upon  his  enemies  or  upon  the  enemies  of 
his  party,  that  his  great  misfortune  fell  upon  him.  He 
became  blind.  He  had  had  many  warnings.  He  had  been 
told  to  be  careful  of  his  eyes,  for  the  sight  of  one  had  long 
been  gone.  But  in  spite  of  all  warnings  he  still  w^orked 
on,  and  at  length  became  quite  blind. 

His  enemies  jeered  at  him,  and  said  it  was  a  judgment 
upon  him  for  his  wicked  writing.  But  never  for  a  moment 
did  JNIilton's  spirit  quail.  He  had  always  been  sure  of 
himself,  sure  of  his  mission  in  life,  sufficient  for  himself. 
And  now  that  the  horror  of  darkness  shut  him  off  from 
others,  shut  him  still  more  into  himself,  his  heart  did  not 
fail  him.     Blind  at  forty-three,  he  wrote: — 


398  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"When   I   consider  how  my  light  is  spent, 
Ere  half  my  days^  in  this  dark  world  and  wide, 
And  that  one  talent  which  is  death  to  hide, 
Lodg'd  with  me  useless,  though  my  soul  more  bent 
To  serve  therewith  my  Maker,  and  present 
My  true  account,  lest  He,  returning,  chide; 
'Doth  God  exact  day  labour,  light  denied?' 
I  fondly  ask:  but  Patience,  to  prevent 
That  murmur,  soon  replies,  'God  doth  not  need 
Either  man's  work,  or  His  own  gifts ;  who  best 
Bear  His  mild  yoke,  they  serve  Him  best:  His  state 
Is  kingly;   thousands   at  His  bidding  speed, 
And  post  o'er  land  and  ocean  without  rest; 
They  also  serve  who  only  stand  and  wait.'  " 

Milton  meant  to  take  up  this  new  burden  patiently, 
but  at  forty-three,  with  all  the  vigor  of  life  still  stirring 
in  him,  he  could  not  meekly  fold  his  hands  to  stand  and 
wait.  Indeed,  his  greatest  work  was  still  to  come.  Blind 
though  he  was,  he  did  not  give  up  his  post  of  Latin  Secre- 
tary. He  still  remained  Chief  Secretary,  and  others  worked 
under  him,  among  them  Andrew  Marvell,  the  poet.  He 
still  gave  all  his  brain  and  learning  to  the  service  of 
his  country,  while  others  supplied  his  lacking  eyesight. 
But  now  in  the  same  year  Fate  dealt  him  another  blow. 
His  wife  died.  Perhaps  there  had  never  been  any  great 
love  or  understanding  between  these  two,  for  INIilton's 
understanding  of  all  women  was  unhappy.  But  now, 
when  he  had  most  need  of  a  woman's  kindl}'^  help  and 
sympath}^,  she  went  from  him  leaving  to  his  blind  care 
three  motherless  girls,  the  eldest  of  whom  was  only  six 
years    old. 

We  know  little  of  Milton's  home  life  during  the  next 
years.  But  it  cannot  have  been  a  happy  one.  His 
children  ran  wild.  He  tried  to  teach  them  in  some  sort. 
He  was  dependent  now  on  others  to  read  to  him,  and  he 
made  his  daughters  take  their  share  of  this.  He  suc- 
ceeded in  teaching  them  to  read  in  several  languages,  but 


DARKNESS  AND  DEATH  399 

they  understood  not  a  word  of  what  they  read,  so  it  was 
no  wonder  that  they  looked  upon  it  as  a  wearisome  task. 
They  grew  up  with  neither  love  for  nor  understanding  of 
their  stern  blind  father.  To  them  he  was  not  the  great 
poet  whose  name  should  be  one  of  the  triumphs  of  English 
Literature.  He  was  merely  a  severe  father  and  hard 
taskmaster. 

Four  years  after  his  first  wife  died  Milton  married 
again.  This  lady  he  never  saw,  but  she  was  gentle  and 
kind,  and  he  loved  her.  For  fifteen  months  she  wrought 
peace  and  order  in  his  home,  then  she  too  died,  leaving 
her  husband  more  lonely  than  before.  He  mourned  her 
loss  in  poetic  words.  He  dreamed  she  came  to  him  one 
night : — 

"Came  vested  all  in  white,  pure  as  her  mind; 
Her  face  was  veil'd;  yet  to  my  fancied  sight 
Love,  sweetness,  goodness,  in  her  person  shin'd 
So  clear,  as  in  no  face  with  more  delight. 
But  O,  as  to  embrace  me  she  inclin'd, 
I  wak'd ;  she  fled ;  and  day  brought  back  my  night." 

With  this  sonnet  (for  those  lines  are  part  of  the  last 
sonnet  ISlilton  ever  wrote)  it  would  seem  as  if  a  new  period 
began  with  Milton,  his  second  period  of  poetry  writing. 
Who  knows  but  that  it  was  the  sharp  sorrow  of  his  loss 
which  sent  him  back  to  poetry.  For  throughout  JNIilton's 
life  we  can  see  that  it  was  always  something  outside  himself 
which  made  him  write  poetry.  He  did  not  sing  like  the 
birds  because  he  must,  but  because  he  was  asked  to  sing 
by  some  person,   or  made  to  sing  by  some  circumstance. 

However  that  may  be,  it  was  now  that  JNIilton  began  his 
greatest  work.  Paradise  Lost.  Twenty  years  before  the 
thought  had  come  to  him  that  he  would  write  a  grand  epic. 
We  have  scarcely  spoken  of  an  epic  since  that  first  of  all 
our  epics,  the  Story  of  Beowulf.  And  although  others 
had    written   epics,    INIilton    is    to   be    remembered    as    the 


400  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

writer  of  the  great  English  epic.  At  first  he  thought  of 
taking  Ai'thur  for  his  hero,  but  as  more  and  more  he  saw 
what  a  mass  of  fable  had  gathered  round  Arthur,  as  more 
and  more  he  saw  how  plain  a  hero  Arthur  seemed,  stripped 
of  that  fable,  his  mind  turned  from  the  subject.  And 
when,  at  last,  after  twenty  years  of  almost  unbroken 
silence  as  a  poet,  he  once  more  let  his  organ  voice  be  heard, 
it  was  not  a  man  he  spoke  of,  but  Man.  He  told  the  story 
which  Caedmon  a  thousand  years  before  had  told  of  the 
war  in  heaven,  of  the  temptation  and  fall  of  man,  and  of 
how  Adam  and  Eve  were  driven  out  of  the  happy  garden. 

"Of  man's  first  disobedience,  and  the  fruit 
Of  that  forbidden  tree,  whose  mortal  taste 
Brought  death  into  the  world,  and  all  our  woe. 
With  loss  of  Eden,  till  one  greater  Man 
Restore  us,  and  regain  the  blissful  seat, 
Sing,  Heavenly  Muse." 

You  will  remember,  or  if  you  look  back  to  Chapter  xiii. 
you  can  read  again  about  the  old  poet  Caedmon  and  what 
he  wrote.  It  was  in  1655  that  Junius  published  the  so- 
called  Caedmon  INIanuscript,  and  Milton,  who  was  so  great 
a  student,  no  doubt  heard  of  it  and  found  some  one  to 
read  it  to  him.  And  perhaps  these  poems  helped  to 
decide  him  in  his  choice,  although  many  years  before  he 
had   thought   of  writing   on   the    subject. 

Perhaps  when  you  are  older  it  may  interest  j^ou  to  read 
the  poems  of  IMilton  and  the  poems  of  Caedmon  together. 
Then  you  will  see  how  far  ahead  of  the  old  poet  Milton  is 
in  smooth  beautj^  of  verse,  how  far  behind  him  sometimes 
in  tender  knowledge  of  man  and  woman.  But  I  do  not 
think  you  can  hope  to  read  Paradise  Lost  with  true  pleas- 
ure yet  a  while.  It  is  a  long  poem  in  blank  verse, 
much  of  it  will  seem  dull  to  you,  and  you  will  find  it  hard 
to  be  interested  in  Adam  and  Eve.  For  Milton  set  himself 
a  task   of  enormous   difficulty   when  he   tried   to   interest 


DARKNESS  AND  DEATH  401 

common  men  and  women  in  people  who  were  without  sin, 
who  knew  not  good  nor  evil.  Yet  if  conceit,  if  self-assur- 
ance, if  the  want  of  the  larger  charity  which  helps  us  to 
understand  another's  faults,  are  sins,  then  Adam  sinned 
long  before  he  left  Milton's  Paradise.  In  fact,  Adam  is 
often  a  bore,  and  at  times  he  proves  himself  no  gentleman 
in  the  highest  and  best  meaning  of  the  word. 

But  in  spite  of  Adam,  in  spite  of  everything  that  can  be 
said  against  it.  Paradise  Lost  remains  a  splendid  poem. 
Never,  perhaps,  has  the  English  language  been  used  more 
nobly,  never  has  blank  verse  taken  on  such  stately  measure. 
JMilton  does  not  make  pictures  for  us,  like  some  poets,  like 
Spenser,  for  instance;  he  sings  to  us.  He  sings  to  us,  not 
like  the  gay  minstrel  with  his  lute,  but  in  stately  measured 
tones,  which  remind  us  most  of  solemn  organ  chords. 
His  voice  comes  to  us,  too,  out  of  a  poet's  country  through 
which,  if  we  would  find  our  way,  we  must  put  our  hand  in 
his  and  let  him  guide  us  while  he  sings.  And  only  when 
we  come  to  love  "the  best  words  in  the  best  order"  can  we 
truly  enjoy  Milton's  Paradise  Lost. 

Milton  fails  at  times  to  interest  us  in  Adam,  but  he  does 
interest  us  in  the  Bad  Angel  Satan,  and  it  has  been  said 
over  and  over  again  that  Satan  is  his  true  hero.  And 
with  such  a  man  as  Milton  this  was  hardly  to  be  wondered 
at.  All  his  life  had  been  a  cry  for  liberty — liberty  even 
when  it  bordered  on  rebellion.  And  so  he  could  not  fail 
to  make  his  arch  rebel  grand,  and  even  in  his  last  degrada- 
tion we  somehow  pity  him,  while  feeling  that  he  is  almost 
too  high  for  pity.  Listen  to  Satan's  cry  of  sorrow  and 
defiance  when  he  finds  himself  cast  out  from  Heaven: — 

"  'Is  this  the  region,  this  the  soil,  the  clime,' 
Said  then  the  lost  Archangel,  'this  the  seat 
That  we  must  change  for  heaven? — this  mournful  gloom 
For  that  celestial  light?     Be  it  so,  since  he 
Who  now  is  sovran  can  dispose  and  bid 


402  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

What  shall  be  right;  farthest  from  him  is  best, 

Whom  reason  hath  equalled,  force  hath  made  supreme 

Above  his  equals.     Farewell,  happy  fields. 

Where  joy  for  ever  dvi^ells !     Hail,  horrors!  hail, 

Infernal  world  !  and  thou,  profoundcst  Hell 

Receive  thy  new  possessor — one  who  brings 

A  mind  not  to  be  changed  by  place  or  time. 

The  mind  is  its  own  place,  and  in  itself 

Can  make  a  Heaven  of  Hell,  a  Hell  of  Heaven. 

What  matter  where,  if  I  be  still  the  same. 

And  what  I  should  be,  all  but  less  than  he 

Whom  thunder  hath  made  greater?     Here  at  least 

We  shall  be  free;  the  Almighty  hath  not  built 

Here  for  his  envy,  will  not  drive  us  hence; 

Here  we  may  reign  secure;  and,  in  my  choice. 

To  reign  is  worth  ambition,  though  in  Hell: 

Better  to  reign  in  Hell  than  serve  in  Heaven.'  " 

Then  in  contrast  to  this  outburst  of  regal  defiance,  read 
the  last  beautiful  lines  of  the  poem  and  see  in  what  softened 
mood  of  submission  INIilton  pictures  our  first  parents  as 
they  leave  the  Happy  Garden: — 

"In  either  hand  the  hastening  Angel  caught 
Our  lingering  parents,  and  to  the  eastern  gate 
Led  them  direct,  and  down  the  clift'  as  fast 
To  the  subjected  plain — then  disappeared. 
They,  looking  back,  all  the  eastern  side  beheld 
Of  Paradise,  so  late  their  hnp])y  seat. 
Waved  over  by  that  flaming  brand;  the  gate 
With  dreadful  faces  thronged  and  fiery  arms. 
Some  natural  tears  they  dropped,  but  wiped  them  soon; 
The  world  was  all  before  them,  where  to  choose 
Their  ])laee  of  rest,  and  Providence  their  guide. 
They,  hand  in  hand,  with  wandering  steps  and  slow. 
Through  Eden  took  their  solitary  way." 

INIilton  worked  slowly  at  this  grand  poem.  Being  blind 
he  had  now  to  depend  on  others  to  write  out  what  poetry 
he  made  in  his  own  mind,  so  it  was  written  "in  a  parcel  of 
ten,  twenty,  or  thirty  verses  at  a  time  b}^  whatever  hand 


DARKNESS  AND  DEATH  403 

came  next."  We  are  told  that  when  he  was  dictating 
sometimes  he  sat  leaning  back  sideways  in  an  easy-chair, 
with  his  leg  flung  over  the  arm.  Sometimes  he  dictated 
from  his  bed,  and  if  in  the  middle  of  the  night  lines  came 
to  him,  whatever  time  it  was  he  would  ring  for  one  of  his 
daughters  to  w^rite  them  down  for  him,  lest  the  thought 
should   be   lost   ere   morning. 

We  are  told,  too,  that  he  wrote  very  little  in  summer. 
For  he  said  himself  that  it  was  in  winter  and  spring  that 
his  poetic  fancy  seemed  to  come  best  to  him,  and  that  what 
he  wrote  at  other  times  did  not  please  him.  "So  that  in 
all  the  years  he  was  about  this  poem,  he  may  be  said  to 
have   spent   but   half   his   time   therein."  ^ 

But  now,  while  ]\Iilton's  mind  was  full  of  splendid 
images,  while  in  sj^ite  of  the  discomfort  and  loneliness  of 
his  misruled  home,  he  was  adding  line  to  line  of  splendid 
sounding  English,  great  changes  came  over  the  land. 

Oliver  Cromwell  died.  To  him  succeeded  his  son  Rich- 
ard. But  his  weak  hands  could  not  hold  the  scepter.  He 
could  not  bind  together  a  rebel  people  as  great  Oliver 
had  done.  In  a  few  months  he  gave  up  the  task,  and  little 
more  than  a  year  later  the  people  who  had  wept  at  the 
death  of  the  great  Protector,  were  madly  rejoicing  at  the 
return  of  a  despot. 

With  a  Stuart  king  upon  the  throne,  there  was  no  safety 
for  the  rebel  poet  who  had  used  all  the  power  of  his  wit 
and  learning  against  the  Royal  cause.  Pity  for  his  blind- 
ness might  not  save  him.  So  listening  to  the  warnings 
of  his  friends,  he  fled  into  hiding  somewhere  in  the  city 
of  London,  "a  place  of  retirement  and  abscondence." 

But  after  a  time  the  danger  passed,  and  Milton  crept 
forth  from  his  hiding-place.  It  was  perhaps  pity  for  his 
blind  helplessness,  perhaps  contempt  for  his  powerlessness, 
that  saved  him,  who  can  tell?    His  books  were  burned  by 

*  Philips. 


404  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  common  hangman,  and  he  found  himself  in  prison  for 
a  short  time,  but  he  was  soon  released.  While  others 
were  dying  for  their  cause,  the  blind  poet  whose  trumpet 
call  had  been  Liberty!  Liberty!  was  contemptuously  al- 
lowed to  live. 

Now  indeed  had  Milton  fallen  on  dark  and  evil  days. 
He  had  escaped  with  his  life  and  was  free.  But  all  that 
he  had  worked  for  during  the  past  twenty  years  he  saw 
shattered  as  at  one  blow.  He  saw  his  friends  suffering 
imprisonment  and  death,  himself  forsaken  and  beggared. 
He  found  no  sympathy  at  home.  His  daughters,  who  had 
not  loved  their  father  in  his  days  of  wealth  and  ease,  loved 
him  still  less  in  poverty.  Thej^  sold  his  books,  cheated 
him  with  the  housekeeping  money,  and  in  every  way  added 
to  his  unhappiness.  At  length,  as  a  way  out  of  the  misery 
and  confusion  of  his  home,  INIilton  married  for  the  third 
time. 

The  new  wife  was  a  placid,  kindly  woman.  She  managed 
the  house,  managed  too  the  wild,  unruly  girls  as  no  one 
had  managed  them  before.  She  saw  the  folly  of  keeping 
them,  wholly  untamed  and  half-educated  as  they  were,  at 
home,  and  persuaded  her  husband  to  let  them  learn  some- 
thing b}^  which  they  might  earn  a  living.  So  they  went 
out  into  the  world  "to  learn  some  curious  and  ingenious 
sorts  of  manufacture,  that  are  proper  for  women  to  learn, 
particularly  embroideries  in  gold  and  silver." 

Thus  for  the  last  few  years  of  his  life  Milton  was  sur- 
rounded by  peace  and  content  such  as  he  had  never  before 
known.  All  through  life  he  had  never  had  any  one  to 
love  him  deeplj^  except  his  father  and  his  mother,  whose 
love  for  him  was  perhaps  not  all  wise.  Those  who  had 
loved  him  in  part  had  feared  him  too,  and  the  fear  outdid 
the  love.  But  now  in  the  evening  of  his  days,  if  no  perfect 
love  came  to  him,  he  found  at  least  kindly  understanding. 
His  wife  admired  him  and  cared  for  him.     She  had  a  fair 


DARKNESS  AND  DEATH  405 

face  and  pretty  voice,  and  it  is  pleasant  to  picture  the  gray- 
haired  poet  sitting  at  his  organ  playing  while  his  wife  sings. 
He  cannot  see  the  sun  gleam  and  play  in  her  golden  hair, 
or  the  quick  color  come  and  go  in  her  fair  face,  but  at  least 
he  can  take  joy  in  the  sound  of  her  sweet  fresh  voice. 

It  was  soon  after  this  third  marriage  that  Paradise  Lost 
was  finished  and  published.  And  even  in  those  wild 
Restoration  daj-s,  when  laughter  and  pleasure  alone  were 
sought,  men  acknowledged  the  beauty  and  grandeur  of 
this  grave  poem.  "This  man  cuts  us  all  out,  and  the 
ancients  too,"  said  Dryden,  another  and  younger  poet. 

People  now  came  to  visit  the  author  of  Paradise  Lost, 
as  before  they  had  come  to  visit  great  Cromwell's  secretary. 
We  have  a  pleasant  picture  of  him  sitting  in  his  garden  at 
the  door  of  his  house  on  sunny  days  to  enjoy  the  fresh  air, 
for  of  the  many  houses  in  which  Milton  lived  not  one  v/as 
without  a  garden.  There,  even  when  the  sun  did  not  shine, 
wrapt  in  a  great  coat  of  coarse  gi'ay  cloth,  he  received  his 
visitors.  Or  when  the  weather  was  colder  he  sat  in  an 
upstairs  room  hung  with  rusty  green.  He  wore  no  sword, 
as  it  was  the  fashion  in  those  days  to  do,  and  his  clothes 
were  black.  His  long,  light  gray  hair  fell  in  waves  round 
his  pale  but  not  colorless  face,  and  the  sad  gray  eyes 
with  which  he  seemed  to  look  upon  his  visitors  were  still 
clear   and   beautiful. 

Life  had  now  come  for  Milton  to  a  peaceful  evening 
time,  but  his  work  was  not  yet  finished.  He  had  two  great 
poems    still   to   write. 

One  was  Paradise  Regained.  In  this  he  shows  how 
man's  lost  happiness  was  found  again  in  Christ.  Here  is 
a  second  temptation,  the  temptation  in  the  wilderness, 
but  this  time  Satan  is  defeated,  Christ  victorious. 

The  second  poem  was  Samson  Agonistes,  which  tells 
the  tragic  story  of  Samson  in  his  blindness.  And  no  one 
reading  it  can  fail  to  see  that  it  is  the  story  too  of  Milton 


406  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

in  his  blindness.    It  is  ISIilton  himself  who  speaks  when  he 
makes  Samson  exclaim: — 

"O  loss  of  sight,  of  thee  I  most  complain ! 
Blind  among  enemies:  O  worse  than  chains, 
Dungeon,  or  beggary,  or  decrepit  age ! 
Light,  the  prime  work  of  God,  to  me  is  extinct. 
And  all  her  various  objects  of  delight 
Annulled,  which  might  in  part  my  grief  have  eased. 
Inferior  to  the  vilest  now  become 
Of  man  or  worm:  the  vilest  here  excel  me, 
They  creep,  yet  see;  I,  dark  in  light,  exposed 
To  daily  fraud,  contempt,  abuse,  and  wrong. 
Within  doors,  or  without,  still  as  a  fool. 
In  power  of  others,  never  in  my  own; — 
Scarce  half  I  seem  to  live,  dead  more  than  half. 
O  dark,  dark,  dark,  amid  the  blaze  of  noon, 
Irrecoverably  dark,  total  eclipse 
Without  all  hope  of  day!" 

This  was  Milton's  last  poem.  He  lived  still  four  years 
longer  and  still  wrote.  But  his  singing  days  were  over,  and 
what  he  now  wrote  was  in  prose.  His  life's  work  was  done, 
and  one  dark  November  evening  in  1674  he  peacefully  died. 

"Thy  soul  was  like  a  Star,  and  dwelt  apart: 
Thou  hadst  a  voice  whose  sound  was  like  the  sea: 
Pure  as  the  naked  heavens,  majestic,  free. 
So  didst  thou  travel  on  life's  common  way."  ^ 


^Wordsworth. 


liA^^^i^uUlI 


'MILTOX    SnilNG   IX    HIS   GARDKX    AT   THE    DOOR   OF   HIS    HOISE. 


CHAPTER  LIX 

BUNYAN— "THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS" 

The  second  great  Puritan  writer  of  England  was  John 
Bunyan.  He  was  born  in  1628,  more  than  twenty  years 
after  INIilton.  His  father  was  a  tinker.  A  tinker !  The  word 
makes  us  think  of  ragged,  weather-worn  men  and  women 
who  wander  about  the  countryside.  They  carry  bundles 
of  old  umbrellas,  and  sometimes  a  battered  kettle  or  two. 
They  live,  who  knows  how?  they  sleep,  who  knows  where? 
Sometimes  in  our  walks  we  come  across  a  charred  round 
patch  upon  the  grass  in  some  quiet  nook  by  the  roadside, 
and  we  know  the  tinkers  have  been  there,  and  can  imagine 
all  sorts  of  stories  about  them.  Or  sometimes,  better  still, 
we  find  them  really  there  by  the  roadside  boiling  a  mysteri- 
ous three-legged  black  kettle  over  a  fire  of  sticks. 

But  John  Bunyan's  father  was  not  this  kind  of  tinker. 
He  did  not  wander  about  the  countryside,  but  lived  at  the 
little  village  of  Elstow,  about  a  mile  from  the  town  of 
Bedford,  as  his  father  had  before  him.  He  was  a  poor  and 
honest  workman  who  mended  his  neighbors'  kettles  and 
pans,  and  did  his  best  to  keep  his  family  in  decent  comfort. 

One  thing  which  shows  this  is  that  little  John  was  sent 
to  school.  In  those  days  learning,  even  learning  to  read 
and  write,  was  not  the  just  due  of  every  one.  It  was 
only  for  the  well-to-do.  "But  yet,"  says  Bunyan  himself, 
"notwithstanding  the  meanness  and  inconsiderableness  of 
my  parents,  it  pleased  God  to  put  it  into  their  hearts  to 
put  me  to  school,  to  learn  me  both  to  read  and  write." 

407 


408  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Bunyan  was  born  when  the  struggle  between  King  and 
peojile  was  beginning  to  be  felt,  and  was  a  great  boy  of 
fourteen  when  at  last  the  armies  of  King  and  Parliament 
met  on  the  battlefield  of  Edgehill.  To  many  this  struggle 
was  a  struggle  for  freedom  in  religion.  From  end  to  end  of 
our  island  the  question  of  religion  was  the  burning  question 
of  the  day.  Religion  had  Avrought  itself  into  the  lives  of 
people.  In  those  days  of  few  books  the  Bible  was  the  one 
book  which  might  be  found  in  almost  every  house.  The 
people  carried  it  in  their  hands,  and  its  words  were  ever  on 
their  lips.  But  the  religion  which  came  to  be  the  religion 
of  more  than  half  the  people  of  England  was  a  stern  one. 
They  forgot  the  Testament  of  Love,  they  remembered  only 
the  Testament  of  Wrath.  They  made  the  narrow  way 
narrower,  and  they  believed  that  any  who  strayed  from  it 
would  be  punished  terribly  and  eternally.  It  was  into  this 
stern  world  that  little  John  Bunyan  was  born,  and  just  as 
a  stern  religious  struggle  Avas  going  on  in  England  so  a 
stern  religious  struggle  went  on  within  his  little  heart.  He 
heard  people  round  him  talk  of  sins  and  death,  of  a  dreadful 
day  of  judgment,  of  wrath  to  come.  These  things  laid  hold 
of  his  childish  mind  and  he  began  to  believe  that  in  the 
sight  of  God  he  must  be  a  desperate  sinner.  Dreadful 
dreams  came  to  him  at  night.  He  dreamed  that  the  Evil 
One  was  trying  to  carry  him  off  to  a  darksome  place 
there  to  be  "bound  down  with  the  chains  and  bonds  of 
darkness,  unto  the  judgment  of  the  great  day."  Such 
dreams  made  night  terrible  to  him. 

Bunyan  tells  us  that  he  swore  and  told  lies  and  that  he 
was  the  ringleader  in  all  the  wickedness  of  the  village. 
But  perhaps  he  was  not  so  bad  as  he  would  have  us  believe, 
for  he  was  always  very  severe  in  his  judgments  of  him- 
self. Perhaps  he  was  not  worse  than  many  other  boys  who 
did  not  feel  that  they  had  sinned  beyond  all  forgiveness. 
And  in  spite  of  his  awful  thoughts  and  terrifying  dreams 


"THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS"  409 

Bunyan  still  went  on  being  a  naughty  boy;  he  still  told 
lies  and  swore. 

At  length  he  left  school  and  became  a  tinker  like  his 
father.  But  all  England  was  being  drawn  into  war,  and 
so  Bunyan,  when  about  seventeen,  became  a  soldier. 

Strange  to  say  we  do  not  know  upon  which  side  he 
fought.  Some  people  think  that  because  his  father  be- 
longed to  the  Church  of  England  that  he  must  have 
fought  on  the  King's  side.  But  that  is  nothing  to  go  by, 
for  many  people  belonged  to  that  Church  for  old  custom's 
sake  who  had  no  opinions  one  way  or  another,  and  who 
took  no  side  until  forced  by  the  war  to  do  so.  It  seems 
much  more  likely  that  Bunyan,  so  Puritan  in  all  his  ways 
of  thought,  should  fight  for  the  Puritan  side.  But  we  do 
not  know.  He  was  not  long  a  soldier,  we  do  not  know 
quite  how  long,  it  was  perhaps  only  a  few  months.  But 
during  these  few  months  his  life  was  saved  by,  what  seemed 
to  him  afterwards  to  have  been  a  miracle. 

"When  I  was  a  soldier,"  he  says,  "I,  with  others,  were 
drawn  out  to  go  to  such  a  place  to  besiege  it.  But  when  I 
was  just  ready  to  go  one  of  the  company  desired  to  go  in 
my  room.  To  which,  when  I  had  consented,  he  took  my 
place.  And  coming  to  the  siege,  as  he  stood  sentinel,  he 
was  shot  in  the  head  with  a  musket  bullet,  and  died. 

"Here,  as  I  said,  were  judgments  and  mercy,  but  neither 
of  them  did  awaken  my  soul  to  righteousness.  Wherefore 
I  sinned  still,  and  grew  more  and  more  rebellious  against 
God." 

So  whether  Bunyan  served  in  the  Royal  army,  where 
he  might  have  heard  oaths,  or  in  the  Parliamentarian,  where 
he  might  have  heard  godly  songs  and  prayers,  he  still  went 
on  his  way  as  before. 

Some  time  after  Bunyan  left  the  army,  and  while  he 
was  still  very  young,  he  married.  Both  he  and  his  wife 
were,  he  says,  "as  poor  as  poor  might  be,  not  having  so 


410  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

much  household  stuff  as  a  dish  or  a  sj^oon  betwixt  us  both. 
Yet  this  she  had  for  her  part,  The  Plain  Man's  Pathway  to 
Heaven  and  The  Practice  of  Piety,  which  her  father  had 
left  her  when  he  died." 

These  two  books  Bunyan  read  with  his  w^ife,  picking  up 
again  the  art  of  reading,  which  he  had  been  taught  at 
school,  and  which  he  had  since  almost  forgotten.  He 
began  now  to  go  a  great  deal  to  church,  and  one  of  his  chief 
pleasures  was  helping  to  ring  the  bells.  To  him  the 
services  were  a  joy.  He  loved  the  singing,  the  altar  with 
its  candles,  the  rich  robes,  the  white  surplices,  and  every- 
thing that  made  the  service  beautiful.  Yet  the  terrible 
struggle  between  good  and  evil  in  his  soul  w^ent  on.  He 
seemed  to  hear  voices  in  the  air,  good  voices  and  bad 
voices,  voices  that  accused  him,  voices  that  tempted.  He 
was  a  most  miserable  man,  and  seemed  to  himself  to  be  one 
of  the  most  wicked,  and  yet  perhaps  the  w^orst  thing  he 
could  accuse  himself  of  doing  was  playing  games  on 
Sunday,  and  pleasing  himself  by  bell-ringing.  He  gave 
up  his  bell-ringing  because  it  was  a  temptation  to  vanity. 
"Yet  my  mind  hankered,  therefore  I  would  go  to  the  steeple 
house  and  look  on,  though  I  durst  not  ring."  One  by  one 
he  gave  up  all  the  things  he  loved,  things  that  even  if  we 
think  them  wrong  do  not  seem  to  us  to  merit  everlasting 
punishment.  But  at  last  the  long  struggle  ended  and 
his  tortured  mind  found  rest  in  the  love  of  Christ. 

Bunyan  himself  tells  us  the  story  of  this  long  fight  in  a 
book  called  Gimce  Abounding  to  the  Chief  of  Sinners.  As  w^e 
read  we  cannot  help  but  see  that  Bunyan  was  never  a  very 
wicked  man,  but  merely  a  man  with  a  very  tender  con- 
science. Things  which  seemed  to  other  men  trifles  were 
to  him  deadly  sins;  and  although  he  w^as  so  stern  to  him- 
self, to  others  he  showed  a  fatherly  tenderness  which  makes 
us  feel  that  this  rough  tinker  was  no  narrow  Puritan,  but 
a  broad-minded,  large-hearted   Christian.     And  now  that 


"THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS"  411 

Biinyan  had  found  peace  he  became  a  Baptist,  and  joined 
the  church  of  a  man  whom  he  calls  "the  holy  ]Mr.  Gilford." 
Gilford  had  been  an  officer  in  the  Royal  army.  He  had 
been  wild  and  drunken,  but  repenting  of  his  evil  ways  had 
become  a  preacher.  Now,  until  he  died  some  years  later, 
he  was  Bunyan's  fast  friend. 

In  the  same  year  as  Bunyan  lost  his  friend  his  wife  too 
died,  and  he  was  left  alone  with  four  children,  two  of  them 
little  girls,  one  of  whom  was  blind.  She  was,  because  of 
that,  all  the  more  dear  to  him.  "She  lay  nearer  to  my 
heart  than  all  beside,"  he  says. 

And  now  Bunyan's  friends  found  out  his  great  gift  of 
speech.  They  begged  him  to  preach,  but  he  was  so  humble 
and  modest  that  at  first  he  refused.  At  length,  however, 
he  was  over-persuaded.  He  began  his  career  as  a  minister 
and  soon  became  famous.  People  came  from  long  distances 
to  hear  him,  and  he  preached  not  only  in  Elstow  and 
Bedford  but  in  all  the  country  round.  He  preached,  not 
only  in  churches,  but  in  barns  and  in  fields,  by  the 
roadside  or  in  the  market-place,  anywhere,  in  fact,  where 
he  could  gather  an  audience. 

It  was  w^hile  Cromwell  ruled  that  Bunyan  began  this 
ministry.  But  in  spite  of  all  the  battles  that  had  been 
fought  for  religious  freedom,  there  was  as  yet  no  real 
religious  freedom  in  England.  Each  party,  as  it  became 
powerful,  tried  to  tyrannize  over  every  other  party,  and  no 
one  was  allowed  to  preach  without  a  license.  The  Presby- 
terians were  now  in  power;  Bunyan  was  a  Baptist,  and 
some  of  the  Presbyterians  would  gladly  have  silenced  him. 
Yet  during  Cromwell's  lifetime  he  went  his  way  in  peace. 
Then  the  Restoration  came.  A  few  months  later  Bunyan 
was  arrested  for  preaching  without  a  license.  Those  who 
now  ruled  "were  angry  with  the  tinker  because  he  strove 
to  mend  souls  as  well  as  kettles  and  pans."  ^    Before  he  was 

*  Henry  Deane. 


412  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

taken  prisoner  Bunyan  was  warned  of  his  danger,  and  if  he 
had  "been  minded  to  have  played  the  coward"  he  might 
have  escaj)ed.  But  he  would  not  try  to  save  himself. 
"If  I  should  now  run  to  make  an  escape,"  he  said,  "it  will 
be  a  very  ill  savour  in  the  country.  For  what  will  my 
weak  and  newly-converted  brethren  think  of  it  but  that  I 
was  not  so  strong  in  deed  as  I  was  in  word." 

So  Bunyan  was  taken  prisoner.  Even  then  he  might 
have  been  at  once  set  free  would  he  have  promised  not  to 
preach.  But  to  all  persuasions  he  replied,  "I  durst  not 
leave  off  that  work  which  God  has  called  me  to." 

Thus  Bunyan's  long  imprisonment  of  twelve  years 
began.  He  had  married  again  by  this  time,  and  the  part- 
ing with  his  wife  and  children  was  hard  for  him,  and  harder 
still  for  the  young  wife  left  behind  "all  smayed  at  the 
news."  But  although  she  was  dismayed  she  was  brave  of 
heart,  and  she  at  once  set  about  eagerly  doing  all  she 
could  to  free  her  husband.  She  went  to  London,  she 
ventured  into  the  House  of  Lords,  and  there  pleaded  for 
him.  Touched  by  her  earnestness  and  her  helplessness 
the  Lords  treated  her  kindly.  But  they  told  her  they 
could  do  nothing  for  her  and  that  she  must  plead  her 
case  before  the  ordinary  judges. 

So  back  to  Bedford  she  went,  and  with  beating  heart 
and  trembling  limbs  sought  out  the  judges.  Again  she 
was  kindly  received,  but  again  her  petition  was  of  no  avail. 
The  law  was  the  law.  Bunyan  had  broken  the  law  and 
must  suffer.  He  would  not  promise  to  cease  from  preach- 
ing, she  would  as  little  promise  for  him.  "INIy  lord,"  she 
said,  "he  dares  not  leave  off  preaching  as  long  as  he  can 
speak." 

So  it  was  all  useless  labor,  neither  side  could  or  would 
give  way  one  inch.  Bursting  into  tears  the  poor  young 
wife  turned  away.  But  she  wept  "not  so  much  because 
they  were  so  hard-hearted  against  me  and  my  husband, 


"THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS  "  413 

but  to  think  what  a  sad  account  such  poor  creatures 
will  have  to  give  at  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  when  they 
shall  then  answer  for  all  things  whatsoever  they  have 
done  in  the  body,  whether  it  be  good,  or  whether  it  be 
bad." 

Seeing  there  was  no  help  for  it,  Bunyan  set  himself 
bravely  to  endure  his  imprisonment.  And,  in  truth,  this 
was  not  very  severe.  Strangely  enough  he  was  allowed 
to  preach  to  his  fellow-prisoners,  he  was  even  at  one  time 
allowed  to  go  to  church.  But  the  great  thing  for  us  is 
that  he  wrote  books.  Already,  before  his  imprisonment, 
he  had  written  several  books,  and  now  he  wrote  that  for 
which  he  is  most  famous,  the  Pilgrirns  Progress. 

It  is  a  book  so  well  known  and  so  well  loved  that  I 
think  I  need  say  little  about  it.  In  the  form  of  a  dream 
Bunyan  tells,  as  you  know,  the  story  of  Christian  who  sets 
out  on  his  long  and  difficult  pilgrimage  from  the  City  of 
Destruction  to  the  City  of  the  Blest.  He  tells  of  all 
Christian's  trials  and  adventures  on  the  way,  of  how  he 
encounters  giants  and  lions,  of  how  he  fights  with  a  great 
demon,  and  of  how  at  length  he  arrives  at  his  journey's  end 
in  safety.  A  great  writer  has  said,  "There  is  no  book  in  our 
literature  on  which  we  would  so  readily  stake  the  fame  of 
the  old  unpolluted  English  language,  no  book  which  shows 
so  well  how  rich  that  language  is  in  its  own  proper  wealth, 
and  how  little  it  has  been  improved  by  all  that  it  has 
borrowed."  ^ 

For  the  power  of  imagination  this  writer  places  Bunyan 
by  the  side  of  Milton.  Although  there  were  many  clever 
men  in  England  towards  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, there  were  only  two  minds  which  had  great  powers 
of  imagination.  "One  of  those  minds  produced  the  Para- 
dise Lost,  the  other  the  Pilgrim's  Progress/'  That  is 
very  great  praise,  and  yet  although  IMilton  and  Bunyan  arq 

*  Macaulay. 


414  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

thus  placed  side  by  side  no  two  writers  are  more  widelj^ 
apart.  ]Milton's  writing  is  full  of  the  proofs  of  his  learning, 
his  English  is  fine  and  stately,  but  it  is  full  of  words  made 
from  Latin  words.  As  an  early  writer  on  him  said, 
"]\Iilton's  language  is  English,  but  it  is  Milton's  Eng- 
lish." ^ 

On  the  other  hand,  Bunyan's  writing  is  most  simple. 
He  uses  strong,  plain,  purely  English  words.  There  is 
hardly  one  word  in  all  his  writings  which  a  man  who 
knows  his  Bible  cannot  easily  understand.  And  it  was 
from  the  Bible  that  Bunyan  gathered  nearly  all  his 
learning.  He  knew  it  from  end  to  end,  and  the  poetry  and 
grandeur  of  its  language  filled  his  soul.  But  he  read  other 
books,  too,  among  them,  we  feel  sure,  the  Faery  Queen. 
Some  day  you  may  like  to  compare  the  adventures  of  the 
Red  Cross  Knight  with  the  adventures  of  Christian.  And 
perhaps  in  all  the  Faery  Queen  you  will  find  nothing  so 
real  and  exciting  as  Christian's  fight  with  Apollyon.  Apol- 
lyon  comes  from  a  Greek  word  meaning  the  destroyer.  This 
is   how   Bunyan   tells    of  the   fight: — 

"But  now  in  this  Valley  of  Humiliation  poor  Christian 
was  hard  put  to  it.  For  he  had  gone  but  a  little  way 
before  he  espied  a  Foul  Fiend  coming  over  the  field  to, 
meet  him.  His  name  is  Apollyon.  Then  did  Christian 
begin  to  be  afraid  and  to  cast  in  his  mind  whether  to  go 
back  or  to  stand  his  ground.  But  he  considered  again,  that 
he  had  no  armour  for  his  back,  and  therefore  thought 
that  to  turn  the  back  to  him  might  give  him  greater 
advantage,  with  ease,  to  pierce  him  with  his  darts.  There- 
fore he  resolved  to  venture  and  stand  his  ground.  For, 
he  thought,  had  I  no  more  in  mine  eye  than  the  saving 
of  my  life,  'twould  be  the  best  way  to  stand. 

"So  he  went  on,  and  Apollyon  met  him.  Xow  the 
Monster  was  hideous   to  behold.     He   was   clothed   with 

^  Richardson. 


"THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS"  415 

scales  like  a  fish,  and  they  are  his  pride.  He  had  wings 
like  a  dragon,  feet  like  a  bear,  and  out  of  his  belly  came 
fire  and  smoke.  And  his  mouth  was  as  the  mouth  of  a 
lion.  When  he  came  up  to  Christian  he  beheld  him  with 
a  disdainful  countenance,  and  thus  began  to  question  him. 

"Apollyon.  Whence  came  you?  a'ld  whither  are  you 
bound  ? 

"Christian.  I  am  come  from  the  City  of  Destruction, 
which  is  the  place  of  all  evil,  and  am  going  to  the  City  of 
Zion." 

After  this  Apollyon  argued  with  Christian,  trying  to 
persuade  him  to  give  up  his  pilgrimage  and  return  to  his 
evil  ways.  But  Christian  would  listen  to  nothing  that 
Apollyon  could  say. 

"Then  Apollyon  straddled  quite  over  the  whole  breadth 
of  the  Way  and  said,  'I  am  void  of  fear  in  this  matter. 
Prepare  thyself  to  die,  for  I  swear  by  my  Infernal  Den 
that  thou  shalt  go  no  further.  Here  will  I  spill  thy 
soul!' 

"And  with  that  he  threw  a  flaming  dart  at  his  heart. 
But  Christian  had  a  shield  in  his  hand,  with  which  he 
caught  it,  and  so  prevented  the  danger  of  that. 

"Then  did  Christian  draw,  for  he  saw  it  was  time  to 
bestir  him,  and  Apollyon  as  fast  made  at  him,  throwing 
darts  as  thick  as  hail,  by  the  which,  notwithstanding  all 
that  Christian  could  do  to  avoid  it,  Apollyon  wounded 
him  in  his  head,  his  hand,  and  foot.  This  made  Christian 
give  a  little  back.  Apollyon  therefore  followed  his  work 
amain,  and  Christian  again  took  courage  and  resisted  as 
manfully  as  he  could.  This  sore  combat  lasted  for  above 
half  a  day,  even  till  Christian  was  almost  quite  spent. 
For  you  must  know  that  Christian,  by  reason  of  his  wounds, 
must  needs  grow  weaker  and  weaker. 

"Then  Apollyon  espying  his  opportunity  began  to 
gather  up  close  to  Christian,  and  wrestling  with  him  gave 


416  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

him  a  dreadful  fall.  And  with  that  Christian's  sword  flewi 
out  of  his  hand.  Then  said  Apollyon,  T  am  sure  of  thee 
now.'  And  with  that  he  had  almost  pressed  him  to 
death  so  that  Christian  began  to  despair  of  life.  But,  as 
God  would  have  it,  while  Apollyon  was  fetching  his  last 
blow,  thereby  to  make  a  full  end  of  this  good  man. 
Christian  nimbly  reached  out  his  hand  for  his  sword  and 
caught  it,  saying,  'Rejoice  not  against  me,  O  mine  En- 
emy! when  I  fall  I  shall  arise!'  and  with  that  gave  him 
a  deadly  thrust  which  made  him  give  back,  as  one  that 
had  received  his  mortal  wound. 

"Christian  perceiving  that  made  at  him  again,  saying, 
'Nay  in  all  these  things  w^e  are  more  than  conquerors 
through  Him  that  loved  us.'  And  with  that  Apollyon 
spread  forth  his  dragon's  wings  and  sped  him  away,  and 
Christian  saw  him  no  more." 

Bunyan  wrote  a  second  part  or  sequel  to  the  Pilgninfs 
Progress,  in  which  he  tells  of  the  adventures  of  Christian's 
wife  and  children  on  their  way  to  Zion.  But  the  story 
does  not  interest  us  as  the  story  of  Christian  does.  Be- 
cause we  love  Christian  we  are  glad  to  know  that  his  wife 
and  children  escaped  destruction,  but  except  that  they 
belong  to  him  we  do  not  really  care  about  them. 

Bunyan  wrote  several  other  books.  The  best  known 
are  The  Holy  War  and  Grace  Abounding.  The  Holy  War 
miglit  be  called  a  Paradise  Lost  and  Regained  in  homely 
prose.  It  tells  much  the  same  story,  the  story  of  the 
struggle  between  Good  and  Evil  for  the  possession  of  man's 
soul. 

In  Grace  Abounding  Bunyan  tells  of  his  own  struggle 
with  evil,  and  it  is  from  that  book  that  we  learn  much  of 
what  we  know  of  his  life. 

He  also  wrote  the  Life  and  Death  of  Mr.  Badman. 
Instead  of  telling  how  a  good  man  struggles  with  evil  and 
at  last  wins  rest,  it  tells  of  how  a  bad  man  yields  always  to 


"THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGRESS"  417 

evil  and  comes  at  last  to  a  sad  end.  It  is  not  a  pretty 
story,  and  is  one,  I  think,  which  you  will  not  care  to  read. 
Bimyan,  too,  wrote  a  good  deal  of  rime,  but  for  the 
most  part  it  can  hardly  be  called  poetry.  It  is  for  his 
prose  that  we  remember  him.  Yet  who  would  willingly 
part  with  the  song  of  the  shepherd-boy  in  the  second  part 
of  the  Pilgrimfs  Progress: — 

"He  that  is  down  needs  fear  no  fall; 
He  that  is  low,  no  pride: 
He  that  is  humble,  ever  shall 
Have  God  to  be  his  guide. 

I  am  content  with  what  I  have, 

Little  be  it  or  much : 
And,  Lord,  contentment  still  I  crave. 

Because  thou  savest  such. 

Fullness  to  such  a  burden  is 

That  go  on  pilgrimage: 
Here  little,  and  hereafter  bliss. 

Is  best  from  age  to  age." 

When  Bunyan  had  been  in  prison  for  six  years  he  was 
set  free,  but  as  he  at  once  began  to  preach  he  was  immedi- 
ately seized  and  reimprisoned.  He  remained  shut  up  for 
six  years  longer.  Then  King  Charles  ii.  passed  an  Act 
called  the  Declaration  of  Indulgence.  By  this  Act  all  the 
severe  laws  against  those  who  did  not  conform  to  the  Church 
of  England  were  done  away  with,  and,  in  consequence, 
Bunyan  was  set  free.  Charles  passed  this  Act,  not  because 
he  was  sorry  for  the  Nonconformists — as  all  who  would  not 
conform  to  the  Church  of  England  were  called — but 
because  he  wished  to  free  the  Roman  Catholics,  and  he 
could  not  do  that  without  freeing  the  Nonconformists  too. 
Two  j^ears  later  Bunyan  w^as  again  imprisoned  because 
"in  contempt  of  his  INIajesty's  good  laws  he  preached  or 
teached  in  other  manner  than  according  to  the  Liturgy  or 


418  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

practice  of  the  Church  of  England."  But  this  time  his 
imprisonment  lasted  only  six  months.  And  I  must  tell 
you  that  many  people  now  think  that  it  was  during  this 
later  short  imprisonment  that  Bunyan  wrote  the  Pilgrim's 
Progress,  and  not  during  the  earlier  and  longer. 

The  rest  of  Bunyan's  life  passed  peacefully  and  happily. 
But  we  know  few  details  of  it,  for  "he  seems  to  have  been 
too  busy  to  keep  any  records  of  his  busy  life."  ^  We  know 
at  least  that  it  was  busy.  He  was  now  a  licensed  preacher, 
and  if  the  j^eople  had  flocked  to  hear  him  before  his 
imprisonment  they  flocked  in  far  greater  numbers  now. 
Even  learned  men  came  to  hear  him.  "I  marvel,"  said 
King  Charles  to  one,  "that  a  learned  man  such  as  you  can 
sit  and  listen  to  an  unlearned  tinker." 

"May  it  please  your  Majesty,"  replied  he,  "I  would 
gladly  give  up  all  my  learning  if  I  could  preach  like  that 
tinker." 

Bunyan  became  the  head  of  the  Baptist  Church.  Near 
and  far  he  traveled,  preaching  and  teaching,  honored  and 
beloved  wherever  he  went.  And  his  word  had  such  power, 
his  commands  such  weight,  that  people  playfully  called 
him  Bishop  Bunyan.  Yet  he  was  "not  puffed  up  in 
prosperity,  nor  shaken  in  adversity,  always  holding  the 
golden  mean."  ^ 

Death  found  Bunyan  still  busy,  still  kindly.  A  young 
man  who  lived  at  Reading  had  ofl'ended  his  father  so  great- 
ly that  the  father  cast  him  off.  In  his  trouble  the  young 
man  came  to  Bunyan.  He  at  once  mounted  his  horse  and 
rode  off  to  Reading.  There  he  saw  the  angry  father,  and 
persuaded  him  to  make  peace  with  his  repentant  son. 

Glad  at  his  success,  Bunyan  rode  on  to  London  where 
he  meant  to  preach.  But  the  weather  was  bad,  the  roads 
were  heavy  with  mud,  he  was  overtaken  by  a  storm  of 
rain,  and  ere  he  could  find  shelter  he  was  soaked  to  the 

^  Brown.  ^  Charles  Doe. 


'DURING    HIS    IMPRISOXMENT    lUJNVAX    WROTE   THE    "PILGRIM'S    PROGRESS.' 


"THE  PILGRIM'S  PROGKESS"  419 

skin.  He  arrived  at  length  at  a  friend's  house  wet  and 
weary  and  shaking  with  fever.  He  went  to  bed  never  to 
rise  again.  The  time  had  come  when,  like  Christian,  he 
must  cross  the  river  which  all  must  cross  "where  there  is 
no  bridge  to  go  over  and  the  river  very  deep."  But 
Bunyan,  like  Christian,  was  held  up  by  Hope.  He  well 
knew  the  words,  "When  thou  passest  through  the  waters 
I  will  be  with  thee,  and  through  the  rivers  they  shall  not 
overflow  thee."     And  so  he  crossed  over. 

And  may  we  not  believe  that  Bunyan,  when  he  reached 
the  other  side,  heard  again,  as  he  had  once  before  heard  in 
his  immortal  dream,  "all  the  bells  in  the  city  ring  again 
with  joy,"  and  that  it  was  said  unto  him,  "Enter  ye  into  the 
joy  of  our  Lord"? 


CHAPTER  LX 

DRYDEN— THE  NEW  POETRY 

"The  life  of  Dryden  may  be  said  to  comprehend  a  history 
of  the  literature  of  England,  and  its  changes,  during  nearly 
half  a  century."  With  these  words  Sir  Walter  Scott, 
himself  a  great  writer,  began  his  life  of  John  Dryden. 
Yet  although  John  Dryden  stands  for  so  much  in  the  story 
of  our  literature,  as  a  man  we  know  little  of  him.  As  a 
writer  his  influence  on  the  age  in  which  he  lived  was 
tremendous.  As  a  man  he  is  more  shadowy  than  almost 
any  other  greater  writer.  We  seem  to  know  Chaucer,  and 
Spenser,  and  Milton,  and  even  Shakespeare  a  little,  but  to 
know  Dryden  in  himself  seems  impossible.  We  can  only 
know  him  through  his  works,  and  through  his  age.  And 
in  him  we  find  the  expression  of  his  age. 

With  ]Milton  ended  the  great  romantic  school  of  poetry. 
He  was  indeed  as  one  born  out  of  time,  a  lonely  giant.  He 
died  and  left  no  follower.  With  Dryden  began  a  new 
school  of  poetry,  which  was  to  be  the  type  of  English 
poetry  for  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  to  come.  This  is 
called  the  classical  scjiool,  and  the  rime  which  the 
classical  poets  used  is  called  the  heroic  couplet.  It  is  a 
long  ten-syllabled  line,  and  rimes  in  couplets,  as,  for 
instance : — 

"He  sought  the  storms ;  but,  for  a  calm  unfit, 
Would  stem  too  nigh  the  sands,  to  beast  his  wit. 
Great  wits  are  sure  to  madness  near  allied, 
And  thin  partitions  do  their  bounds  divide."  ^ 

^Absalom  and  Achitophel. 
420 


THE  NEW  POETRY  421 

Dryden  did  not  invent  the  heroic  couplet,  but  it  was  he 
who  first  made  it  famous.  "It  was  he,"  says  Scott,  "who 
first  showed  that  the  Enghsh  language  was  capable  of 
uniting  smoothness  and  strength."  But  when  you  come 
to  read  Dryden's  poems  you  may  perhaps  feel  that  in  gain- 
ing the  smoothness  of  Art  they  have  lost  something  of  the 
beauty  of  Nature.  The  perfect  lines  with  their  regular 
sounding  rimes  almost  weary  us  at  length,  and  we  are 
glad  to  turn  to  the  rougher  beauty  of  some  earlier 
poet. 

But  before  speaking  more  of  what  Dryden  did  let  me 
tell  3^ou  a  little  of  what  we  know  of  his  life. 

John  Dryden  was  the  son  of  a  Northamptonshire 
gentleman  who  had  a  small  estate  and  a  large  family,  for 
John  was  the  eldest  of  fourteen  children.  The  family  was 
a  Puritan  one,  although  in  1631,  when  John  was  born,  the 
Civil  War  had  not  yet  begun. 

When  John  Dryden  left  school  he  went,  like  nearly  all 
the  poets,  to  Cambridge.  Of  what  he  did  at  college  we 
know  very  little.  He  may  have  been  wild,  for  more  than 
once  he  got  into  trouble,  and  once  he  was  "rebuked  on  the 
head"  for  speaking  scornfully  of  some  nobleman.  He  was 
seven  years  at  Cambridge,  but  he  looked  back  on  these 
years  with  no  joy.  He  had  no  love  for  his  University, 
and  even  wrote: — 

"Oxford  to  him  a  dearer  name  shall  be. 
Than  his  own  Mother  University." 

Already  at  college  Dryden  had  begun  to  write  poetry, 
but  his  poem  on  the  death  of  Cromvrell  is  perhaps  the  first 
that  is  worth  remembering: — 

"Swift  and  relentless  through  the  land  he  past, 
Like  that  bold  Greek,  who  did  the  East  subdue; 
And  made  to  battles  such  heroic  haste 
As  if  on  winss  of  victory  he  flew. 


422  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

He  fought  secure  of  fortune  as  of  fame. 

Till  by  new  maps  the  island  might  be  shown 

Of  conquests,  which  he  strewed  where'er  he  came. 

Thick  as  the  galaxy  with  stars  is  sown. 

Nor  Avas  he  like  those  stars  which  only  shine. 
When  to  pale  mariners  they  storms  portend. 
He  had  a  calmer  influence,  and  his  mien 
Did  love  and  majesty  together  blend. 

Nor  died  he  when  his  ebbing  fame  went  less. 
But  when  fresh  laurels  courted  him  to  live: 
He  seemed  but  to  prevent  some  new  success. 
As  if  above  what  triumphs  earth  could  give. 

His  ashes  in  a  peaceful  urn  shall  rest; 
His  name  a  great  example  stands,  to  show, 
How  strangely  high   endeavours  may  be  blessed. 
Where  piety  and  valour  jointly  go." 

So  wrote  Dryden.  But  after  the  death  of  Cromwell 
came  the  Restoration.  Dryden  had  been  able  to  admire 
Cromwell,  but  although  he  came  of  a  Puritan  family  he 
could  never  have  been  a  Puritan  at  heart.  What  we  learn 
of  him  in  his  writings  shows  us  that.  He  was  not  of  the 
stern  stuff  v>^hich  makes  martyrs  and  heroes.  There  was 
no  reason  why  he  should  suif er  for  a  cause  in  which  he  did 
not  whole-heartedly  believe.  So  Dryden  turned  Royalist, 
and  the  very  next  poem  he  wrote  was  On  the  Happy 
Restoration  ami  Beturn  of  His  Majesty  Charles  the  Second. 

"How  easy  'tis  when  destiny  proves  kind. 
With  full-spread  sails  to  run  before  the  wind!"-*- 

So  Dryden  ran  before  the  wind. 

About  three  years  after  the  Restoration  Dryden 
married  an  earl's  daughter,  Lady  Elizabeth  Howard. 
We  know  very  little  about  their  life  together,  but  they  had 
three  children  of  whom  they  were  very  fond. 

^  Astrce   Redux. 


THE  NEW  POETRY  423 

With  the  Restoration  came  the  re-opening  of  the 
theaters,  and  for  fourteen  years  Dryden  was  known  as  a 
dramatic  poet.  There  is  little  need  to  tell  you  anything 
about  his  plays,  for  you  would  not  like  to  read  them.  Dur- 
ing the  reign  of  Puritanism  in  England  the  people  had  been 
forbidden  even  innocent  pleasures.  The  JNIaypole  dances 
had  been  banished,  games  and  laughter  were  frowned  upon. 
Now  that  these  too  stern  laws  had  been  taken  away,  people 
plunged  madly  into  pleasure:  laughter  became  coarse, 
merriment  became  riotous.  Puritan  England  had  lost 
the  sense  of  where  innocent  pleasure  ends  and  wickedness 
begins.  In  another  way  Restoration  England  did  the 
same.  The  people  of  the  Restoration  saw  fun  and  laughter 
in  plays  which  seem  to  us  now  simply  vulgar  and  coarse  as 
well  as  dull.  The  coarseness,  too,  is  not  the  coarseness  of 
an  ignorant  people  who  know  no  better,  but  rather  of  a 
people  who  do  know  better  and  who  yet  prefer  to  be 
coarse.  I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  there  are  no  well-drawn 
characters,  no  beautiful  lines,  in  Dryden's  plays,  for  that 
would  not  be  true.  IMany  of  them  are  clever,  the  songs  in 
them  are  often  beautiful,  but  nearly  all  are  unpleasant 
to  read.  The  taste  of  the  Restoration  times  condemned 
Dryden  to  write  in  a  way  unworthy  of  himself  for  money. 
"Neither  money  nor  honour — that  in  two  words  was  the 
position  of  writers  after  the  Restoration."  ^ 

"And  Dryden,  in  immortal  strain. 
Had  raised  the  table-round  again 
But  that  a  ribald  King  and  Court 
Bade  him  toil  on  to  make  them  sport. 
Demanding  for  their  niggard  pay, 
Fit  for  their  souls,  a  loser  lay."  ^ 

Had  Dryden  written  nothing  but  plays  we  should  not 
remember  him   as   one   of   our   great   poets.      Yet   it   was 

*  Beljame,  Le  Public  et  les  Ilommes  de  Lettres  en  AngUterre. 

*  Walter  Scott,  Marmlon. 


424  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

during  this  time  of  play-writing  that  Dryden  was  made 
Poet  Laureate  and  Historiographer  Royal  with  the  salary 
of  £200  a  year  and  a  butt  of  sack.  It  was  after  he  became 
Poet  Laureate  that  Dryden  began  to  write  his  satires,  the 
poems  for  which  he  is  most  famous.  Although  a  satire  is 
a  poem  which  holds  wickedness  up  to  scorn,  sometimes  it 
was  used,  not  against  the  wicked  and  the  foolish,  but 
against  those  who  merely  differed  from  the  writer  in 
politics  or  religion  or  any  other  way  of  life  or  thought. 
Such  was  Dryden's  best  satire — thought  by  some  people 
the  best  in  the  English  language.  It  is  called  Absalom  and 
Achitophel.  To  understand  it  we  must  know  and  under- 
stand the  history  of  the  times.  Here  in  the  guise  of  the 
old  Bible  story  Dryden  seeks  to  hold  Lord  Shaftesbury  up 
to  scorn  because  he  tried  to  have  a  law  passed  which 
would  prevent  the  King's  brother  James  from  succeeding 
to  the  throne,  and  which  would  instead  place  the  Duke  of 
Monmouth  there.  When  the  poem  was  published  Shaftes- 
bury was  in  the  Tower  awaiting  his  trial  for  high  treason. 
The  poem  had  a  great  effect,  but  Shaftesbury  was  never- 
theless set  free. 

In  spite  of  the  fine  sounding  lines  you  will  perhaps  never 
care  to  read  Absalom  and  Achitophel  save  as  a  footnote 
to  history.  But  Dryden's  was  the  age  of  satire.  Those 
he  wrote  called  forth  others.  He  was  surrounded  and 
followed  b}^  many  imitators,  and  it  is  well  to  remember 
Dryden  as  the  greatest  of  them  all.  His  satires  were  so 
powerful,  too,  that  the  people  against  whom  they  were 
directed  felt  them  keenly,  and  no  wonder.  "There  are 
passages  in  Dryden's  satires  in  which  every  couplet  has 
not  only  the  force  but  the  sound  of  a  slap  in  the  face,"  says 
a  recent  writer.^ 

Among  the  younger  writers  Dryden  took  the  place  Ben 
Jonson  used  to  hold.     He  kinged  it  in  the  coffee-house, 

^  Saintsburv. 


THE  NEW  POETRY  425 

then  the  fashionable  place  at  which  the  wits  gathered,  as 
Jonson  had  in  the  tavern.  He  was  given  the  most  hon- 
ored seat,  in  summer  by  the  window,  in  winter  by  the  fire. 
And  although  he  was  not  a  great  talker  like  Jonson,  the 
young  wits  crowded  around  him,  eager  for  the  honor  of  a 
word  or  a  pinch  from  the  great  man's  snuff-box. 

Besides  his  plays  and  satires  Dryden  wrote  a  poem  in 
support  of  the  English  Church  called  Eeligio  Laid.  Then 
a  few  years  later,  when  Charles  ii.  died  and  James  ii.  came 
to  the  throne,  Dryden  turned  Roman  Catholic  and  wrote 
a  poem  called  The  Hind  and  the  Panther  in  praise  of  the 
Church  of  Rome. 

But  the  reign  of  James  ii.  was  short.  The  "Glorious 
Revolution"  came,  and  with  a  Protestant  King  and  Queen 
upon  the  throne,  the  Catholic  Poet  Laureate  lost  his  post 
and  pension  and  all  his  other  appointments.  Dryden  was 
now  nearly  sixty;  and  although  he  had  made  what  was 
then  a  good  deal  of  money  by  his  plays  and  other  poems 
he  had  spent  it  freely,  and  always  seemed  in  need.  Now 
he  had  to  face  want  and  poverty.  But  he  faced  them 
bravely.  Dryden  all  his  life  had  been  a  flatterer;  he  had 
always  sailed  with  the  wind.  Now,  whether  he  could  not 
or  would  not,  he  changed  no  more,  he  flattered  no  more. 
A  kind  friend,  it  is  said,  still  continued  to  pay  him  the  two 
hundred  pounds  he  had  received  as  Poet  Laureate,  and  he 
now  wrote  more  plays  w^hich  brought  him  money.  Then, 
thus  late  in  life,  he  began  the  work  which  for  you  at  present 
will  have  the  greatest  interest.  Dryden  was  a  great  poet, 
but  he  could  create  nothing,  he  had  to  have  given  him 
ideas  upon  which  to  work.  Now  he  began  translations 
from  Latin  poets,  and  for  those  who  cannot  read  them  in 
the  original  they  are  still  a  great  pleasure  and  delight. 

True,  Dryden  did  not  translate  literal^,  that  is  word 
for  word.  He  paraphrased  rather,  and  in  doing  so  he 
Drydenized  the  originals,  often  adding  whole  lines  of  his 


426  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

own.  Among  his  translations  was  Virgil's  Mneid,  which 
long  before,  you  remember,  Surrey  had  begun  in  blank 
verse.  But  blank  verse  was  not  what  the  age  in  which 
Dryden  lived  desired,  and  he  knew  it.  So  he  wrote 
in  rimed  couplets.  Long  before  this  he  had  turned 
;^Iilton's  Paradise  Lost  into  rimed  couplets,  making  it 
into  an  opera,  which  he  called  The  State  of  Innocence. 
An  opera  is  a  play  set  to  music,  but  this  opera  was  never 
set  to  music,  and  never  sung  or  acted.  Dryden,  we 
know,  admired  Milton's  poetry  greatly.  "This  man  cuts 
us  all  out,"  he  had  said.  Yet  he  thought  he  could  make 
the  poem  still  better,  and  asked  Milton's  leave  to  turn 
it  into  rime.  "Ay,  you  may  tag  my  verses  if  you  will," 
replied  the  great  blind  man. 

It  is  interesting  to  compare  the  two  poems,  and  when 
you  come  to  read  The  State  of  Imiocence  you  will  find  that 
not  all  the  verses  are  "tagged."  So  that  in  places  you 
can  compare  IMilton's  blank  verse  with  Dryden's.  And 
although  Dryden  must  have  thought  he  was  improving 
JMilton's  poem,  he  says  himself:  "Truly  I  should  be  sorry, 
for  my  own  sake,  that  any  one  should  take  the  pains  to 
compare  them  (the  poems)  together,  the  original  being, 
undoubtedly,  one  of  the  greatest,  most  noble,  and  most 
sublime  poems  which  either  this  age  or  nation  has  pro- 
duced." 

Dryden  begins  his  poem  with  the  speech  of  Satan,  Lucifer 
he  calls  him,  on  finding  himself  cast  out  from  heaven: — 

"Is  this  the  seat  our  conqueror  has  given? 
And  this  the  climate  we  must  change  for  heaven? 
These  regions  and  this  realm  my  wars  have  got; 
This  mournful  empire  is  the  loser's  lot; 
In  liquid  burnings,  or  on  dry,  to  dwell. 
Is  all  the  sad  variety  of  hell." 

If  you  turn  back  to  page  401  you  can  compare  this  witli 
Milton's  own  version. 


THE  NEW  POETRY  427 

Besides  translating  some  Latin  and  a  few  Greek  poems 
Dryden  translated  stories  from  Boccaccio,  Chaucer's  old 
friend,  and  last  of  all  he  translated  Chaucer  himself  into 
Drydenese.  For  in  Dryden's  day  Chaucer's  language  had 
already  become  so  old-fashioned  that  few  people  troubled 
to  read  him.  "It  is  so  obsolete,"  says  Dryden,  "that  his 
sense  is  scarce  to  be  understood."  "I  find  some  people  are 
offended  that  I  have  turned  these  tales  into  modern 
English,  because  they  think  them  unworthy  of  my  pains, 
and  look  on  Chaucer  as  a  dry,  old-fashioned  wit  not  worthy 
reviving." 

Again  he  says:  "But  there  are  other  judges,  who  think  I 
ought  not  to  have  translated  Chaucer  into  English,  out  of  a 
quite  contrary  notion.  They  suppose  there  is  a  certain 
veneration  due  to  his  old  language,  and  that  it  is  little  less 
than  profanation  and  sacrilege  to  alter  it.  They  are 
further  of  opinion  that  somewhat  of  his  good  sense  will 
suffer  in  this  transfusion,  and  much  of  the  beauty  of  his 
thoughts  will  infallibly  be  lost,  which  appear  with  more 
grace  in  their  old  habit."  I  think  all  of  us  who  can  read 
Chaucer  in  his  own  language  must  agree  with  these  judges. 
But  Dryden  goes  on  to  say  he  does  not  write  for  such,  but 
for  those  who  cannot  read  Chaucer's  English.  Are  they 
who  can  understand  Chaucer  to  deprive  the  greater  part  of 
their  countrymen  of  the  same  advantage,  and  hoard  him 
up,  as  misers  do  their  gold,  only  to  look  on  it  themselves 
and  hinder  others  from  making  use  of  it?  he  asks. 

This  is  very  good  reasoning,  and  all  that  can  be  said 
against  it  is  that  when  Dryden  has  done  with  Chaucer, 
although  he  tells  the  same  tales,  they  are  no  longer 
Chaucer's  but  Dryden's.  The  spirit  is  changed.  But  that 
you  will  be  able  to  feel  only  when  you  grow  older  and  are 
able  to  read  the  two  and  balance  them  one  against  the 
other.  Dryden  translated  only  a  few  of  the  Canterbury 
Tales,  and  the  one  he  liked  best  was  the  knight's  tale  of 


428  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Palamon  and  Arcite.  He  published  it  in  a  book  which  he 
called  Fables,  and  it  is,  I  think,  as  a  narrative  or  story- 
telling poet  in  these  fables,  and  in  his  translations,  that  he 
keeps  most  interest  for  the  young  people  of  to-day. 

You  have  by  this  time,  I  hope,  read  the  story  of 
Palamon  and  Arcite  at  least  in  Tales  from  Chaucer,  and 
here  I  will  give  you  a  few  lines  first  from  Dryden  and 
then  from  Chaucer,  so  that  you  can  judge  for  yourselves 
of  the  difference.  In  them  the  poets  describe  Emelia 
as  she  appeared  on  that  May  morning  v/hen  Palamon 
first  looked  forth  from  his  prison  and  saw  her  walk  in 
the  garden: — 

"Thus  year  by  year  they  pass,  and  day  by  day. 
Till  once, — 'twas  on  the  morn  of  cheerful  INIay, — 
The   young   Emila,    fairer  to   be   seen 
Than  the  fair  lily  on  the  flowery  green. 
More  flesh  than  May  herself  in  blossoms  new. 
For  with  the  rosy  colour  strove  her  hue, 
Waked,  as  her  custom  was,  before  the  day. 
To  do  the  observance  due  to  sprightly   May; 
For  sprightly  May  commands  our  youth  to  keep 
The  vigils  of  her  night,  and  breaks  their  sluggard  sleep; 
Each  gentle  breast  with  kindly  warmth  she  moves ; 
Inspires   new  flames,  revives   extinguished  loves. 
In  this  remembrance,  Emil}^,  ere  day. 
Arose,  and  dressed  herself  in  rich  array; 
Fresh  as  the  month,  and  as  the  morning  fair, 
Adown  her  shoulders  fell  her  length  of  hair; 
A  ribbon  did  the  braided  tresses  bind. 
The  rest  was  loose,  and  wantoned  in  the  wind: 
Aurora  had  but  newly  chased  the  night. 
And  purpled  o'er  the  sky  with  blushing  light. 
When  to  the  garden  walk  she  took  her  way. 
To  sport  and  trip  along  in  cool  of  day. 
And  offer  maiden  vows  in  honour  of  the  May. 

At  every     turn  she  made  a  little  stand. 
And  thrust  among  the  thorns  her  lily  hand 
To  draw  the  rose,  and  every  rose  she  drew. 
She  shook  the  stalk,  and  brushed  away  the  dew; 


THE  NEW  POETRY  429 

Then  party-coloured  flowers  of  white  and  red 
She  wove,  to  make  a  garland  for  her  head. 
This  done,  she  sung  and  carolled  out  so  clear, 
That  men   and  angels  might  rejoice  to  hear; 
Even  wondering  Philomel  forgot  to  sing, 
And  learned  from  her  to  welcome  in  the  Spring." 

That  is  Dryden's,  and  this  is  how  Chauncer  tells  of  the 
same  May  morning: — 

"This  passeth  yeer  by  yeer,  and  day  by  day. 
Till  it  fel  oones  in  a  morwe  of  May 
That  Emelic,  that  fairer  was  to  scene 
Than  is  the  lilie  on  his  stalke  grene. 
And  fressher  than  the  May  with  floures  newe — 
For  with  the  rose  colour  strof  hire  hewe, 
I  not  which  was  the  fairer  of  hem  two — 
Er  it  were  day,  as  was  hir  v/one  to  do. 
She  was  arisen  and  al  redy  dight. 
For  May  wol  have  no  sloggardye  anight. 
The  seson  priketh  every  gentil  herte, 
And  maketh  him  out  of  his  sleep  to  sterte, 
And  seith,  'Arise  and  do  thin  observance'. 
This  maked  Emelye  have  remembraunce 
To  don  honour  to  May,  and  for  to  rise. 
I-clothed  was  she  fressh  for  to  devise, 
Hir  yelcwe  heer  was  broyded  in  a  tresse, 
Behinde  hir  bak,  a  yerde  long  I  gesse; 
And  in  the  gardyn  at  the  sunne  upriste 
She  walketh  up  and  doun,  and  as  hir  liste 
She  gadereth  floures,  party  white  and  rede. 
To  make  a  subtil  garland  for  hir  hede. 
And  as  an  angel  hevenly  she  song." 

In  this  quotation  from  Chaucer  I  have  not  changed  the 
old  spelling  into  modern  as  I  did  in  the  chapter  on  Chaucer, 
so  that  you  may  see  the  difference  between  the  two  styles 
more  clearl3\ 

If  you  can  see  the  difference  between  these  two  quota- 
tions you  can  see  the  difference  between  the  poetry  of 
Dryden's   age   and   all  that  went   before  him.     It   is   the 


430  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

difference  between  art  and  nature.  Chaucer  sings  like  a 
bird,  Dry  den  like  a  trained  concert  singer  who  knows  that 
people  are  listening  to  him.  There  is  room  for  both  in 
life.     We  want  and  need  both. 

If  you  can  feel  the  difference  between  Chaucer  and 
Dryden  you  will  understand  in  part  what  I  meant  by 
saying  that  Dryden  was  the  expression  of  his  time.  For  in 
Restoration  times  the  taste  was  for  art  rather  than  for 
natural  beauty.  The  taste  was  for  what  was  clever,  witty, 
and  polished  rather  than  for  the  simple,  stately  grandeur 
of  what  was  real  and  true.  Poetry  was  utterly  changed. 
It  no  longer  went  to  the  heart  but  to  the  brain.  Dryden's 
poetry  does  not  make  the  tears  start  to  our  eye  or  the  blood 
come  to  our  cheek,  but  it  flatters  our  ear  with  its  smooth- 
ness and  elegance;  it  tickles  our  fancy  with  its  wit. 

You  will  understand  still  better  what  the  feeling  of  the 
times  was  when  I  tell  you  that  Dryden,  with  the  help  of 
another  poet,  re-wrote  Shakespeare's  Tempest  and  made  it 
to  suit  the  fashion  of  the  day.  In  doing  so  they  utterly 
spoiled  it.  As  literature  it  is  worthless;  as  helping  us  to 
understand  the  history  of  those  times  it  is  useful.  But 
although  The  Temijest,  as  re-written  by  Dryden,  is  bad,  one 
of  the  best  of  his  plays  is  founded  upon  another  of  Shake- 
speare's. This  play  is  called  All  for  Love  or  the  World  Well 
Lost,  and  is  founded  upon  Shakespeare's  Antony  and 
Cleopatra.  It  is  not  written  in  Dryden's  favorite  heroic 
couplet  but  in  blank  verse.  "In  my  style,"  he  says,  "I 
have  professed  to  imitate  the  divine  Shakespeare,  which, 
that  I  might  perform  more  freely,  I  have  disencumbered 
myself  from  rhyme.  Not  that  I  condemn  my  former  way, 
but  that  this  is  more  proper  to  my  present  purpose."  And 
when  you  come  to  read  this  play  you  will  find  that,  master 
as  Drj^den  was  of  the  heroic  couplet,  he  could  write,  too, 
when  he  chose,  fine  blank  verse. 

Perhaps  the  best-known  of  all  Dryden's  shorter  poems 


THE  NEW  POETRY  431 

is  the  ode  called  Aleojander's  Feast.  It  was  written  for  a 
London  musical  society,  which  gave  a  concert  each  year 
on  St.  Cecilia's  day,  when  an  original  ode  was  sung  in  her 
honor.  Dry  den  in  this  ode,  which  was  sung  in  1697, 
pictures  Timotheus,  the  famous  Greek  musician  and  poet, 
singing  before  Alexander,  at  a  great  feast  which  was  held 
after  the  conquest  of  Persia.    Alexander  listens  while 

"The  lovely  Thais,  by  his   side. 
Sate  like  a  blooming  Eastern  bride. 
In  flower  of  youth  and  beauty's  pride. 
Happy,  happy,  happy  pair! 
None  but  the  brave. 
None  but  the  brave. 
None  but  the  brave  deserves  the  fair !" 

As  Timotheus  sings  he  stirs  at  will  his  hearers'  hearts  to 
love,  to  pity,  or  to  revenge. 

"Timotheus,  to  his  breathing  flute 
And  sounding  lyre, 
Could  swell  the  soul  to  rage,  or  kindle  soft  desire." 

But  those  were  heathen  times.  In  Christian  times  came 
St.  Cecilia  and  she 

"Enlarged  the  former  narrow  bounds. 
And  added  length  to  solemn  sounds. 
With  nature's  Mother-wit,  and  arts  unknown  before. 
Let  old  Timotheus  yield  the  prize. 

Or  both  divide  the  crown: 

He  raised  a  mortal  to  the  skies 

She  drew  an  angel  down." 

Dryden  was  a  great  poet,  and  he  dominated  his  own  age 
and  the  age  to  come.  But  besides  being  a  poet  he  was  a 
great  prose-writer.  His  prose  is  clear  and  fine  and  almost 
modern.  We  do  not  have  to  follow  him  through  sentences 
so  long  that  we  lose  the  sense  before  we  come  to  the  end. 
"He  found  English  of  brick  and  left  it  marble,"  says  a  late 


432  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

writer,  and  when  we  read  his  prose  we  almost  believe  that 
saying  to  be  true.  He  was  the  first  of  modern  critics,  that 
is  he  was  able  to  judge  the  works  of  others  surely  and  well. 
And  many  of  his  criticisms  of  men  were  so  true  that 
we  accept  them  nov/  even  as  they  were  accepted  then. 
Here  is  what  he  says  of  Chaucer  in  his  preface  to  The 
Fables: — 

"He  [Chaucer]  must  have  been  a  man  of  a  most 
wonderful  comprehensive  nature,  because  as  it  has  been 
truly  observed  of  him,  he  has  taken  into  the  compass  of 
his  Canterbury  Tales  the  various  manners  and  humours  (as 
we  now  call  them)  of  the  whole  English  nation,  in  his  age. 
Not  a  single  character  has  escaped  him.  All  his  pilgrims 
are  severally  distinguished  from  each  other;  and  not  only 
in  their  inclinations,  but  in  their  very  physiognomies  and 
persons.  .  .  .  The  matter  and  manner  of  their  tales,  and 
of  their  telling,  are  so  suited  to  their  different  educations, 
humours,  and  callings,  that  each  of  them  would  be  im- 
proper in  any  other  mouth.  Even  the  grave  and  serious 
characters  are  distinguished  by  their  several  sorts  of 
gravity.  Their  discourses  are  such  as  belong  to  their  age, 
their  calling,  and  their  breeding;  such  as  are  becoming  to 
them  and  to  them  only.  Some  of  his  persons  are  vicious, 
and  some  virtuous;  some  are  unlearned,  cr  (as  Chaucer 
calls  them)  lewd,  and  some  are  learned.  Even  the  ribaldry 
of  the  low  characters  is  different :  the  Reeve,  the  IMiller,  and 
the  Cook,  are  several  men,  and  distinguished  from  each  other 
as  much  as  the  mincing  Lady-Prioress  and  the  broad- 
speaking,  gap-toothed  Wife  of  Bath.  ...  It  is  sufficient 
to  say,  according  to  the  proverb,  that  here  is  God's  plenty. 
We  have  our  forefathers  and  great-grand-dames  all  before 
us,  as  they  were  in  Chaucer's  days.  Their  general  char- 
acters are  still  remaining  in  mankind,  and  even  in  England, 
though  they  are  called  by  other  names  than  those  of  monks, 
and    friars,    and   canons,    and    lady   abbesses,    and   nuns; 


THE  NEW  POETRY  433 

for  mankind  is  ever  the  same,  and  nothing  lost  out  of  nature 
though  everything  is  altered." 

The  Fables  was  the  last  book  Dryden  wrote.  He  was 
growing  to  be  an  old  man,  and  a  few  months  after  it  was 
published  he  became  very  ill.  "John  Dryden,  Esq.,  the 
famous  poet,  lies  a-dying,"  said  the  newspapers  on  the 
30th  April,  1700.  On  May  Morning  he  closed  his  eyes  for 
ever,  just  as 

"Aurora  had  but  newly  chased  the  night, 
And  purpled  o'er  the  sky  with  blushing  light." 


CHAPTER  LXI 

DEFOE— THE   FIRST   NEWSPAPERS 

To  almost  every  house  in  the  land,  as  regular  as  the  milk- 
man, more  regular  than  the  postman,  there  comes  each 
morning  the  newspaper  boy.  To  most  of  us  breakfast 
means,  as  well  as  things  to  eat,  mother  pouring  out  the  tea 
and  father  reading  the  newspaper.  As  mother  passes 
father's  tea  she  says,  "Anything  in  the  paper,  John?" 
And  how  often  he  answers,  "Nothing,  nothing  whatever." 

Although  father  says  there  is  nothing  in  the  paper 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  reading  in  it,  that  we  can  see.  And 
now  comes  the  question,  Who  writes  it  all?  Who  writes 
this  thin,  flat  book  of  six  or  eight  great  pages  which  every 
morning  we  buy  for  a  penny  or  a  halfpenny?  But  perhaps 
you  think  it  does  not  matter  who  writes  the  newspaper, 
for  the  newspaper  is  not  literature.  Literature  means  real 
books  with  covers — dear  possessions  to  be  loved  and  taken 
care  of,  to  be  read  and  read  again.  But  a  newspaper  is 
hardly  read  at  all  when  it  is  crumpled  up  and  used  to  light 
the  fire.  And  no  one  minds,  for  who  could  love  a  newspaper, 
who  care  to  treasure  it,  and  read  it  again  and  yet  again? 

We  do  not  want  even  to  read  yesterday's  newspapers, 
for  newspapers  seem  to  hold  for  us  only  the  interest  of  the 
day.  The  very  name  by  which  they  used  to  be  called, 
journal,  seems  to  tell  us  that,  for  it  comes  from  the  French 
word  ''jour"  meaning  "a  day."  Newspapers  give  us  the 
news  of  the  day  for  the  day.  Yet  in  them  we  find  the  history 
of  our  own  times,  and  we  are  constantly  kept  in  mind  of 
how   important   they   are   in    our   everyday   life   by   such 

434 


THE  FIRST  NEWSPAPERS  135 

phrases  as  "the  freedom  of  the  Press,"  "the  opinion  of  the 
Press,"  the  Press  meaning  all  the  newspapers,  journals  and 
magazines  and  the  people  who  write  for  them. 

So  we  come  back  again  to  our  question,  Who  w^rites  for 
the  newspapers?  The  answer  is,  the  journalists.  A 
new^spaper  is  not  all  the  work  of  one  man,  but  of  many 
whose  names  we  seldom  know,  but  who  work  together  so 
that  each  morning  we  may  have  our  paper.  And  in  this 
chapter  I  want  to  tell  you  about  one  of  our  first  real 
journalists,  Daniel  Defoe.  Of  course  you  know  of  him 
already,  for  he  wrote  Robinson  Crusoe,  and  he  is  perhaps 
your  favorite  author.  But  before  he  was  an  author  he  was 
a  journalist,  and  as  I  say  one  of  our  first. 

For  there  was  a  time  when  there  were  no  newspapers, 
nothing  for  father  to  read  at  breakfast-time,  and  no  old 
newspapers  to  crumple  up  and  light  fires  with.  The  first 
real  printed  English  newspaper  was  called  the  Weekly 
News.  It  was  published  in  1622,  while  King  Charles  i. 
was  still  upon  the  throne. 

But  this  first  paper  and  others  that  came  after  it  were 
very  small.  The  whole  paper  was  not  so  large  as  a  page  of 
one  of  our  present  halfpenny  papers.  The  news  was  told 
baldly  without  any  remarks  upon  it,  and  when  there  was 
not  enough  new^s  it  was  the  fashion  to  fill  up  the  space  with 
chapters  from  the  Bible.  Sometimes,  too,  a  space  was 
left  blank  on  purj^ose,  so  that  those  w^ho  bought  the  paper 
in  town  might  write  in  their  own  little  bit  of  new^s  before 
sending  it  off  to  country  friends. 

Defoe  was  one  of  the  first  to  change  this,  to  write 
articles  and  comments  upon  the  news.  Gradually  news- 
papers became  plentiful.  And  when  Government  by  party 
became  the  settled  form  of  our  Government,  each  party  had 
its  own  new^spaper  and  used  it  to  help  on  its  own  side  and 
abuse  the  other. 

Milton    and   Dryden  were    really    journalists;   Milton 


436  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

when  he  wrote  his  poHtical  pamphlets,  and  Dryden  when  he 
wrote  Absalom  and  Achitophel  and  other  poems  of  that  kind. 
But  they  were  poets  first,  journahsts  by  accident.  Defoe 
was  a  journahst  first,  though  by  nature  ever  a  story-teller. 

Daniel  Defoe,  born  in  1661,  was  the  son  of  a  London 
butcher  named  James  Foe.  Why  Daniel,  who  prided 
himself  on  being  a  true-born  Englishman,  Frenchified  his 
name  by  adding  a  "De"  to  it  we  do  not  know,  and  he  was 
over  forty  before  he  changed  plain  Foe  into  Defoe. 

Daniel's  father  and  mother  were  Puritans,  and  he  was 
sent  to  school  with  the  idea  that  he  should  become  a 
Nonconformist  minister.  But  Defoe  did  not  become  a 
minister;  perhaps  he  felt  he  was  unsuited  for  such  solemn 
duty.  "The  pulpit,"  he  says  later,  "is  none  of  my  office. 
It  was  my  disaster  first  to  be  set  apart  for,  and  then  to  be 
set  apart  from  the  honor  of  that  sacred  employ." 

Defoe  never  went  to  college,  and  because  of  this  many 
a  time  in  later  daj^s  his  enemies  taunted  him  with  being 
ignorant  and  unlearned.  He  felt  these  taunts  bitterly, 
and  again  and  again  answered  them  in  his  writings.  "I 
have  been  in  my  time  pretty  well  master  of  five  languages," 
he  says  in  one  place.  "I  have  also,  illiterate  though  I  am, 
made  a  little  progress  in  science.  I  have  read  Euclid's 
Elements.  ...  I  have  read  logic.  ...  I  went  some 
length  in  physics.  ...  I  thought  myself  master  of 
geography  and  to  possess  sufficient  skill  in  astronomy." 
Yet  he  says  I  am  "no  scholar." 

When  Defoe  left  school  he  went  into  the  office  of  a 
merchant  hosier.  It  was  while  he  was  in  this  office  that 
King  Charles  ii.  died  and  King  James  ii.  came  to  the  throne. 
Almost  at  once  there  followed  the  Duke  of  Monmouth's 
rebellion.  The  Duke  was  a  Protestant  and  James  was  a 
Catholic.  There  were  many  in  the  land  who  feared  a 
Catholic  King,  and  who  believed  too  that  the  Duke  had 
more  right  to  the  throne  than  James,  so  they  joined  the 
rebellion.     Among  them  was  Daniel.     But  the  Rebellion 


THE  FIRST  NEWSPAPERS  437 

came  to  nothing.  In  a  few  weeks  the  Duke's  army  was 
scattered  in  flight,  and  he  himself  a  wretched  prisoner  in 
the  Tower. 

Happier  than  many  of  his  comrades,  Defoe  succeeded 
in  escaping  death  or  even  punishment.  Secretly  and  safely 
he  returned  to  London  and  there  quietly  again  took  up  his 
trade  of  merchant  hosier.  But  he  did  not  lose  his  interest 
in  the  aifairs  of  his  country.  And  when  the  glorious 
Revolution  came  he  was  one  of  those  who  rode  out  to  meet 
and  welcome  William  the  Deliverer. 

But  perhaps  he  allowed  politics  to  take  up  too  much  of 
his  time  and  thought,  for  although  he  was  a  good  business 
man  he  failed  and  had  to  hide  from  those  to  whom  he  owed 
money.  But  soon  we  find  him  setting  to  work  again  to 
mend  his  fortunes.  He  became  first  secretary  to  and  then 
part  owner  of  a  tile  and  brick  factory,  and  in  a  few  years 
made  enough  money  to  pay  off  all  his  old  debts. 

By  this  time  Defoe  had  begun  to  write,  and  was  already 
known  as  a  clever  author.  Now  some  one  wrote  a  book 
accusing  William  among  many  other  "crimes"  of  being  a 
foreigner.  Defoe  says,  "this  filled  me  with  a  kind  of  rage" ; 
and  he  replied  with  a  poem  called  The  True-born  English- 
man. It  became  popular  at  once,  thousands  of  copies 
being  sold  in  the  first  few  months.  Every  one  read  it  from 
the  King  in  his  palace  to  the  workman  in  his  hut,  and  long 
afterwards  Defoe  was  content  to  sign  his  books  "By  the 
author  of  'The  True-born  Englishman.'  "  It  made  Defoe 
known  to  the  King.  "This  poem,"  he  said,  "was  the  occa- 
sion of  my  being  known  to  his  Majesty."  He  was  received 
and  employed  by  him  and  "above  the  capacity  of  my 
deserving,  rewarded."  He  was  given  a  small  appointment 
in  the  Civil  Service.  All  his  life  after  Defoe  loved  King 
William  and  was  his  staunch  friend,  using  all  the  power 
of  his  clever  pen  to  make  the  unloved  Dutch  King  better 
understood  of  his  people.  But  when  King  William  died 
and  Queen  Anne  ruled  in  his  stead  Defoe  fell  on  evil  times. 


438  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

In  those  days  the  quarrels  about  religion  were  not  yet 
over.  There  was  a  i^arty  in  the  Church  which  would  very 
willingly  have  seen  the  Nonconformists  or  Dissenters 
persecuted.  This  party  was  now  in  power,  and  the 
Dissenters  were  like  to  have  an  evil  time.  To  show  how 
wrong  persecution  was,  Defoe  wrote  a  little  pamphlet 
which  he  called  The  Shortest  Way  with  the  Dissenters. 
He  wrote  as  if  he  were  very  angry  indeed  with  the  Dis- 
senters. He  said  they  had  been  far  too  kindly  treated, 
and  that  if  he  had  his  way  he  would  make  a  law  that 
"whoever  was  found  at  a  conventicle  should  be  banished 
the  nation,  and  the  preacher  be  hanged.  We  should  soon 
see  an  end  of  the  tale — they  would  all  come  to  Church,  and 
one  age  would  make  us  all  one  again." 

Defoe  meant  this  for  satire.  A  satire  is,  you  remember, 
a  work  which  holds  up  folly  or  wickedness  to  ridicule. 
He  meant  to  show  the  High  Churchmen  how  absurd  and 
wicked  was  their  desire  to  punish  the  Dissenters  for 
v/orshiping  God  in  their  own  way.  He  meant  to  make 
the  world  laugh  at  them.  But  at  first  the  High  Churchmen 
did  not  see  that  it  was  meant  to  ridicule  them.  They 
greeted  the  author  of  this  pamphlet  as  a  friend  and  ally. 
The  Dissenters  did  not  see  the  satire  either,  and  found  in 
the  writer  a  new  and  most  bitter  enemy. 

But  when  at  last  Defoe's  meaning  became  plain  the 
High  Church  party  was  very  angry,  and  resolved  to  punish 
him.  Defoe  fled  into  hiding.  But  a  reward  of  fifty  pounds 
was  offered  for  his  discovery,  and,  "rather  than  others 
should  be  ruined  by  his  mistake,"  Defoe  gave  himself  up. 

For  having  written  "a  scandalous  and  seditious 
pamphlet"  Defoe  was  condemned  to  pay  a  large  fine,  to 
stand  three  times  in  the  pillory,  and  to  be  imprisoned 
during  the  Queen's  pleasure.  Thus  quickly  did  Fortune's 
wheel  turn  round.  "I  have  seen  the  rough  side  of  the 
world  as  well  as  the  smooth,"  he  said  long  after.     "I  have, 


THE  FIRST  NEWSPAPERS  439 

in  less  than  half  a  year,  tasted  the  difference  between  the 
closet  of  a  King,  and  the  dungeon  of  Newgate." 

The  pillory  was  a  terrible  punishment.  In  a  public 
place,  raised  on  a  platform,  in  full  view  of  the  passing 
crowd,  the  victim  stood.  Round  his  neck  was  a  heavy 
collar  of  wood,  and  in  this  collar  his  hands  were  also 
confined.  Thus  he  stood  helpless,  unable  to  protect  him- 
self either  from  the  sun  or  rain  or  from  the  insults  of  the 
crowd.  For  a  man  in  the  pillory  was  a  fitting  object  for 
laughter  and  rude  jests.  To  be  jeered  at,  to  have  mud 
thrown  at  him,  was  part  of  his  punishment. 

But  for  Defoe  it  was  a  triumph  rather  than  a  punish- 
ment.  To  the  common  people  he  was  already  a  hero. 
So  they  formed  a  guard  round  him  to  protect  him  from  the 
mud  and  rotten  eggs  his  enemies  would  have  thrown. 
They  themselves  threw  flowers,  they  wreathed  the  pillory 
with  roses  and  with  laurel  till  it  seemed  a  place  of  honor 
rather  than  of  disgrace.  They  sang  songs  in  his  praise  and 
drank  to  his  health  and  wished  those  who  had  sent  him 
there  stood  in  his  place.  Thus  through  all  the  long,  hot 
July  hours  Defoe  was  upheld  and  comforted  in  his  disgrace. 
And  to  show  that  his  spirit  was  untouched  by  his  sentence 
he  wrote  A  Hymn  to  the  Pillory.  This  was  bought  and 
read  and  shouted  in  the  ears  of  his  enemies  by  thousands 
of  the  people.  It  was  a  more  daring  satire  than  even 
The  Shortest  Way.  In  the  end  of  it  Defoe  calls  upon  the 
Pillory,  "Thou  Bugbear  of  the  Law,"  to  speak  and  say  why 
he  stands  there: — 

"Tell  them,  it  was,  because  he  was  too  bold. 
And  told  those  truths  which  should  not  have  been  told! 
Extol  the  justice  of  the  land, 
Who  punish  what  they  will  not  understand! 

Tell  them,  he  stands  exalted  there 

For  speaking  what  we  would  not  hear: 

And  yet  he  might  have  been  secure, 

Had  he  said  less^  or  would  he  have  said  more ! 


440  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Tell  them  the  men  that  placed  him  here 
Are  scandals  to  the  Times ! 
Are  at  a  loss  to  find  his  guilt. 
And  can't  commit  his  crimes!" 

But  although  Defoe's  friends  could  take  the  sting  out  of 
the  terrible  hours  during  which  he  stood  as  an  object  for 
mockery  they  could  do  little  else  for  him.  So  he  went  back 
to  prison  to  remain  there  during  the  Queen's  pleasure. 

This,  of  course,  meant  ruin  to  him.  For  himself  he 
could  bear  it,  but  he  had  a  wife  and  children,  and  to 
know  that  they  were  in  poverty  and  bitter  want  was  his 
hardest  punishment. 

From  prison  Defoe  could  not  manage  his  factory.  He 
had  to  let  that  go,  losing  with  it  thousands  of  pounds. 
For  the  second  time  he  saw  himself  ruined.  But  he  had 
still  left  to  him  his  pen  and  his  undaunted  courage.  So, 
besides  writing  many  pamphlets  in  prison,  Defoe  started  a 
paper  called  the  Review.  It  appeared  at  first  once,  then 
twice,  and  at  last  three  times  a  week.  Unlike  our  papers 
of  to-day,  which  are  written  by  many  hands,  Defoe  wrote 
the  whole  of  the  Review  himself,  and  continued  to  do  so 
for  3"ears.  It  contained  very  little  news  and  many 
articles,  and  when  we  turn  these  worn  and  yellowing  pages 
we  find  much  that,  interesting  in  those  days,  has  lost 
interest  for  us.  But  we  also  find  articles  which,  worded  in 
clear,  strong,  truly  English  English,  seem  to  us  as  fresh 
and  full  of  life  as  when  they  were  written  more  than  two 
hundred  years  ago.  We  find  as  well  much  that  is  of  keen 
historical  interest,  and  we  gain  some  idea  of  the  undaunted 
courage  of  the  author  when  we  remember  that  the  first 
numbers  of  the  Review  at  least  were  penned  in  a  loath- 
some prison  where  highwaymen,  pirates,  cut-throats,  and 
common  thieves  were  his  chief  companions. 


CHAPTER  LXII 

DEFOE— "ROBINSON  CRUSOE" 

For  more  than  a  year  and  a  half  Defoe  remained  in  prison; 
then  he  was  set  free. 

A  new  Government  had  come  into  power.  It  was 
pointed  out  to  the  Queen  that  it  was  a  mistake  to  make 
an  enemy  of  so  clever  an  author  as  Defoe.  Then  he  was 
set  at  liberty,  but  on  condition  that  he  should  use  his 
pen  to  support  the  Government.  So  although  Defoe  was 
now  free  to  all  seeming,  this  was  really  the  beginning  of 
bondage.  He  was  no  longer  free  in  mind,  and  by  degrees 
he  became  a  mere  hanger-on  of  Government,  selling  the 
support  of  his  pen  to  whichever  party  was  in  power. 

We  cannot  follow  him  through  all  the  twists  and  turns 
of  his  politics,  nor  through  all  his  ups  and  downs  in  life, 
nor  mention  all  the  two  hundred  and  fifty  books  and 
pamphlets  that  he  wrote.  It  was  an  adventurous  life  he 
led,  full  of  dark  and  shadowy  passages  which  we  cannot 
understand  and  so  perhaps  cannot  pardon.  But  whether 
he  sold  his  pen  or  no  we  are  bound  to  confess  that  Defoe's 
desire  was  towards  the  good,  towards  peace,  union,  and 
justice. 

One  thing  he  fought  for  with  all  his  buoyant  strength 
was  the  Union  between  England  and  Scotland.  It  had 
been  the  desire  of  William  iii.  ere  he  died,  it  had  now 
become  the  still  stronger  desire  of  Queen  Anne  and  her 
ministers.  So  Defoe  took  "a  long  winter,  a  chargeable, 
and,  as  it  proved,  hazardous  journey"  to  Scotland.     There 

441 


442  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

he  threw  himself  into  the  struggle,  doing  all  he  could  for 
the  Union.  He  has  left  for  us  a  history  of  that  struggle/ 
which  perhaps  better  than  any  other  makes  us  realize  the 
unrest  of  the  Scottish  people,  the  anger,  the  fear,  the 
indecision,  with  w^hich  they  were  filled.  "People  went  up 
and  down  wondering  and  amazed,  expecting  every  day 
strange  events,  afraid  of  peace,  afraid  of  war.  ]Many  knew 
not  which  way  to  fix  their  resolutions.  They  could  not 
be  clear  for  the  Union,  yet  they  saw  death  at  the  door  in 
its  breaking  off — Death  to  their  liberty,  to  their  religion, 
and  to  their  country."  Better  than  any  other  he  gives  a 
picture  of  the  "infinite  struggles,  clamor,  railing,  and 
tumult  of  party."  Let  me  give,  in  his  own  words,  a 
description  of  a  riot  in  the  streets  of  Edinburgh: — 

"The  rabble  by  shouting  and  noise  having  increased 
their  numbers  to  several  thousands,  they  began  with  Sir 
Patrick  Johnston,  who  was  one  of  the  treaters,  and  the 
year  before  had  been  Lord  Provost.  First  they  assaulted 
his  lodgings  with  stones  and  sticks,  and  curses  not  a  few. 
But  his  windows  being  too  high  they  came  up  the  stairs 
to  his  door,  and  fell  to  work  at  it  with  sledges  or  great 
hammers.  And  had  they  broke  it  open  in  their  first  fury, 
he  had,  w^ithout  doubt,  been  torn  to  pieces  without  mercy; 
and  this  only  because  he  was  a  treater  in  the  Commission 
to  England,  for,  before  that,  no  man  was  so  well  beloved 
as  he,  over  the  whole  city. 

"His  lady,  in  the  utmost  despair  with  this  fright,  came 
to  the  window,  with  two  candles  in  her  hand,  that  she 
might  be  known;  and  cried  out,  for  God's  sake  to  call  the 
guards.  An  honest  Apothecary  in  the  town,  who  knew  her 
voice,  and  saw  the  distress  she  was  in,  and  to  whom  the 
family,  under  God,  is  obliged  for  their  deliverance,  ran 
immediately  down  to  the  town  guard.  But  they  would 
not    stir    without    the    Lord    Provost's   order.     But    that 

^  History  of  the  Union  of  Great  Britain. 


"ROBINSON  CRUSOE"  443 

being  soon  obtained,  one  Captain  Richardson,  who  com- 
manded, taking  about  thirty  men  with  him,  marched 
bravely  up  to  them;  and  making  his  way  with  great 
resolution  through  the  crowd,  they  flying,  but  throwing 
stones,  and  hallooing  at  him,  and  his  men.  He  seized  the 
foot  of  the  staircase;  and  then  boldly  went  up,  cleared  the 
stair,  and  took  six  of  the  rabble  in  the  very  act,  and  so 
delivered  the  gentleman  and  his  family. 

"But  this  did  not  put  a  stop  to  the  general  tumult, 
though  it  delivered  this  particular  family.  For  the 
rabble,  by  this  time,  were  prodigiously  increased,  and  went 
roving  up  and  down  the  town,  breaking  the  windows  of 
the  jMembers  of  Parliament  and  insulting  them  in  their 
coaches  in  the  streets.  They  put  out  all  the  lights  that 
they  might  not  be  discovered.  And  the  author  of  this  had 
one  great  stone  thrown  at  him  for  but  looking  out  of  a 
window.  For  they  suffered  nobody  to  look  out,  especially 
with  any  lights,  lest  they  should  know  faces,  and  inform 
against  them  afterwards. 

"By  this  time  it  was  about  eight  or  nine  o'clock  at 
night,  and  now  they  were  absolute  masters  of  the  city. 
And  it  was  reported  they  were  going  to  shut  up  all  the 
ports. ^  The  Lord  Commissioner  being  informed  of  that, 
sent  a  party  of  the  foot  guards,  and  took  possession  of  the 
Netherbow,  which  is  a  gate  in  the  middle  of  the  High 
Street,  as  Temple  Bar  between  the  City  of  London  and  the 
Court. 

"The  city  was  now  in  a  terrible  fright,  and  everybody 
was  under  concern  for  their  friends.  The  rabble  went 
raving  about  the  streets  till  midnight,  frequently  beating 
drums,  raising  more  people.  When  my  Lord  Commissioner 
being  informed,  there  were  a  thousand  of  the  seamen  and 
rabble  come  up  from  Leith;  and  apprehending  if  it  were 
suffered  to  go  on,  it  might  come  to  a  dangerous  head,  and 

'Gates   in   the   City    Wall. 


444  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

be  out  of  his  power  to  suppress,  he  sent  for  the  Lord 
Provost,  and  demanded  that  the  guards  should  march  into 
the  city. 

"The  Lord  Provost,  after  some  difficulty,  yielded; 
though  it  was  alleged,  that  it  was  what  never  was  known 
in  Edinburgh  before.  About  one  o'clock  in  the  morning  a 
battalion  of  the  guards  entered  the  town,  marched  up  to 
the  Parliament  Close,  and  took  post  in  all  the  avenues  of 
the  city,  which  prevented  the  resolutions  taken  to  insult 
the  houses  of  the  rest  of  the  treaters.  The  rabble  were 
entirely  reduced  by  this,  and  gradually  dispersed,  and  so 
the  tumult  ended." 

Although  Defoe  did  all  he  could  to  bring  the  Union 
about  he  felt  for  and  wdth  the  poor  distracted  people.  He 
saw  that  amid  the  strife  of  parties,  proud,  ignorant,  mis- 
taken, it  may  be,  the  people  were  still  swayed  by  love  of 
country,  love  of  freedom. 

Even  after  the  Union  was  accomplished  Defoe  remained 
in  Scotland.  He  still  wrote  his  Review  every  week,  and 
filled  it  so  full  of  Union  matters  that  his  readers  began  to 
think  he  could  speak  of  nothing  else  and  that  he  was 
growing  dull.    In  his  Review  he  writes: — 

"Nothing  but  Union,  Union,  says  one  now  that  wants 
diversion;  I  am  quite  tired  of  it,  and  we  hope,  'tis  as  good 
as  over  now.  Prithee,  good  Mr.  Review,  let's  have  now 
and  then  a  touch  of  something  else  to  make  us  merry." 
But  Defoe  assures  his  readers  he  means  to  go  on  writing 
about  the  Union  until  he  can  see  some  prospect  of  calm 
among  the  men  who  are  trying  to  make  dispeace.  "Then 
I  shall  be  the  first  that  shall  cease  calling  upon  them  to 
Peace." 

The  years  went  on,  Defoe  always  living  a  stormy  life 
amid  the  clash  of  party  politics,  always  writing,  writing. 
More  than  once  his  noisy,  journalistic  pen  brought  him  to 
prison.     But  he  was   never   a   prisoner   long,   never   long 


"ROBINSON  CRUSOE"  445 

silenced.  Yet  although  Defoe  wrote  so  much  and  Hved  at  a 
time  when  England  was  full  of  witty  writers  he  was  outside 
the  charmed  circle  of  wits  who  pretended  not  to  know  of 
his  existence.  "One  of  these  authors,"  says  another  writer, 
"(the  fellow  that  was  pilloried,  I  have  forgotten  his  name), 
is  indeed  so  grave,  sententious,  dogmatical  a  rogue  that 
there  is  no  enduring  him."  ^ 

At  length  when  Defoe  was  nearly  sixty  years  old  he 
wrote  the  book  which  has  brought  him  world-wide  and  en- 
during fame.  Need  I  tell  you  of  that  book?  Surely  not. 
For  who  does  not  know  Robinson  Crusoe,  or,  as  the  first 
title  ran,  "The  Life  and  Strange  Surprising  Adventures  of 
Robinson  Crusoe,  of  York,  Mariner,  who  lived  eight-and- 
twenty  years  all  alone  in  an  uninhabited  Island  on  the 
Coast  of  America  near  the  Mouth  of  the  great  River 
Oroonoque,  having  been  cast  on  shore  by  shipwreck, 
wherein  all  the  men  perished  but  himself.  With  an  account 
how  he  was  at  last  strangely  delivered  by  Pirates.  Written 
by  himself."  In  those  days,  you  see,  they  were  not  afraid 
of  long  titles.  The  book,  too,  is  long.  "Yet,"  as  another 
great  writer  says,^  "was  there  ever  anything  written  by  mere 
man  that  was  wished  longer  by  its  readers,  except  Don 
Quixote,  Robinson  Crusoe,  and  the  Pilgrijiis  ProgressV^ 

The  book  was  a  tremendous  success.  It  pleased  the 
men  and  women  and  children  of  two  hundred  years  ago 
as  much  as  it  pleases  them  to-day.  Within  a  few  months 
four  editions  had  been  sold.  Since  then,  till  now,  there 
has  never  been  a  time  when  Robinson  Crusoe  has  not  been 
read.  The  editions  of  it  have  been  countless.  It  has  been 
edited  and  re-edited,  it  has  been  translated  and  abridged, 
turned  into  shorthand  and  into  poetry,  and  published  in 
every  form  imaginable,  and  at  every  price,  from  one  penny 
to  many  pounds. 

Defoe  got  the  idea  of  his  story  from  the  adventures 

*  Jonathan  Swift.  *  Samuel  Johnson. 


446  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  a  Scots  sailor  named  Alexander  Selkirk.  This  sailor 
quarreled  with  his  captain,  and  was  set  ashore  upon  an 
uninhabited  island  where  he  remained  alone  for  more  than 
four  years.  At  the  end  of  that  time  he  was  rescued  by  a 
passing  ship  and  brought  home  to  England.  Out  of  this 
slender  tale  Defoe  made  his  fascinating  story  so  full  of 
adventure. 

What  holds  us  in  the  story  is  its  seeming  truth.  As  we 
read  it  we  forget  altogether  that  it  is  only  a  story,  we  feel 
sure  that  Crusoe  really  lived,  that  all  his  adventures  really 
happened.  And  if  you  ever  read  any  more  of  Defoe's 
books  you  will  find  that  this  feeling  runs  through  them  all. 
Defoe  was,  in  fact,  a  born  story-teller — like  Sir  John 
Mandeville.  With  an  amazing  show  of  truth  he  was 
continually  deceiving  people.  "He  was  a  great,  a  truly 
great  liar,  perhaps  the  greatest  liar  that  ever  lived."  ^ 

Finding  that  Robinson  Crusoe  was  such  a  success,  Defoe 
began  to  write  other  stories.  He  wrote  of  thieves,  pirates 
and  rogues.  These  stories  have  the  same  show  of  truth  as 
Robinson  Crusoe.  Defoe,  no  doubt,  got  the  ideas  for  them 
from  the  stories  of  the  rogues  with  whom  he  mixed  in 
prison.  But  they  have  nearly  all  been  forgotten,  for 
although  they  are  clever  the  heroes  and  heroines  are  coarse 
and  the  story  of  their  adventures  is  unpleasant  reading. 
Yet  as  history,  showing  us  the  state  of  the  people  in  the 
days  of  Queen  Anne  and  of  George  i.,  thej^  are  useful. 

Defoe  was  now  well  off.  He  had  built  himself  a  hand- 
some house  surrounded  by  a  pleasant  garden.  He  had 
carriages  and  horses  and  lived  in  good  style  with  his  wife 
and  beautiful  daughters.  There  seemed  to  be  no  reason 
why  he  should  not  live  happily  and  at  ease  for  the  rest  of 
his  life.  But  suddenly  one  day,  for  some  unknown  reason, 
he  fled  from  his  comfortable  home  into  hiding.  Why  he 
did  this  no  one  can  tell.     For  two  years  he  lived  a  home- 

*  William  Minto. 


"ROBINSON  CRUSOE"  447 

less,  skulking  fugitive.     Then  in  1731  he  died,  if  not  in 
poverty  at  least  in  loneliness  and  distress  of  mind. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Robinson  Crusoe,  abridged  by  John  Lang.     Robinson  Crusoe,  retold  by  Edith 
Robarts,  illustrated  by  J.  Hassall,  R.  I.     Robinson  Crusoe  (Everyman's  Library). 


CHAPTER  LXIII 

SWIFT— THE  "JOURNAL  TO  STELLA" 

We  all  know  what  it  is  to  feel  hurt  and  angry,  to  feel  that 
we  are  misunderstood,  that  no  one  loves  us.  At  such  times 
it  may  be  we  want  to  hurt  ourselves  so  that  in  some 
mysterious  way  we  may  hurt  those  who  do  not  love  us. 
We  long  to  die  so  that  they  may  be  sorry.  But  these 
feelings  do  not  come  often  and  they  soon  pass.  We  cry 
ourselves  to  sleep  perhaps  and  wake  up  to  find  the  evil 
thoughts  are  gone.  We  forget  all  about  them,  or  if  we 
remember  them  we  remember  to  smile  at  our  own  foolish- 
ness, for  we  know  that  after  all  we  are  understood,  we  are 
loved.  And  when  we  grow  old  enough  to  look  back  upon 
those  times,  although  we  may  remember  the  pain  of  them, 
we  can  see  that  sometimes  they  came  from  our  own  fault, 
it  was  not  that  we  were  misunderstood  so  much  as  that  we 
were  misunderstanding.  Yet  whether  it  be  our  own 
fault  or  not,  when  such  times  do  come,  the  world  seems 
very  dark  and  life  seems  full  of  pain.  Then  think  of  what 
a  whole  life  filled  with  these  evil  thoughts  must  be.  Think 
of  a  whole  life  made  terrible  with  bitter  feelings.  That 
would  be  misery  indeed. 

Yet  when  we  read  the  sad  story  of  the  life  of  Jonathan 
Swift  who  has  in  Gulliver  s  Travels  given  to  countless 
children,  and  grown-up  people  too,  countless  hours  of 
pleasure,  we  are  forced  to  believe  that  so  he  passed  a 
great  part  of  his  life.  Swift  was  misunderstood  and 
misunderstanding.     It  was  not  that  he  had  no  love  given 

448 


THE  "JOURNAL  TO  STELLA"  44,9 

to  him,  for  all  his  hfe  through  he  found  women  to  love  him. 
But  it  was  his  unhappiness  that  he  took  that  love  only  to 
turn  it  to  bitterness  in  his  heart,  that  he  took  that  love  so 
as  to  leave  a  stain  on  him  and  it  ever  after.  He  had  friend- 
ship too.  But  in  the  hands  stretched  out  to  help  him  in 
his  need  he  saw  only  insult.  In  the  kindness  that  was 
given  to  him  he  saw  only  a  grudging  charity,  and  yet  he 
was  angry  with  the  world  and  with  man  that  he  did  not 
receive  more. 

In  the  life  of  Jonathan  Swift  there  are  things  which 
puzzle  even  the  wisest.  Children  would  find  those  things 
still  harder  to  understand,  so  I  will  not  try  to  explain  them, 
but  will  tell  you  a  little  that  you  will  readily  follow  about 
the  life  of  this  lonely  man  with  the  biting  pen  and  aching 
heart. 

Jonathan  Swift's  father  and  mother  were  very  poor,  so 
poor  indeed  that  their  friends  said  it  was  folly  for  them  to 
marry.  And  when  after  about  two  years  of  married  life 
the  husband  died,  he  left  his  young  wife  burdened  with 
debts  and  with  a  little  baby  girl  to  keep.  It  was  not  until 
a  few  months  after  his  father's  death  that  Jonathan  was 
born. 

His  mother  was  a  brave-hearted,  cheerful  woman,  and 
although  her  little  son  came  to  her  in  the  midst  of  such 
sorrow  she  no  doubt  loved  him,  and  his  nurse  loved  him 
too.  Little  Jonathan's  father  and  mother  were  English, 
but  because  he  was  born  in  Dublin,  and  because  he  spent 
a  great  deal  of  his  life  there,  he  has  sometimes  been  looked 
upon  as  an  Irishman. 

Jonathan's  nurse  was  also  an  Englishwoman,  and  when 
he  was  about  a  year  old  she  was  called  home  to  England 
to  a  dying  friend.  She  saw  that  she  must  go  to  her  friend, 
but  she  loved  her  baby-charge  so  much  that  she  could  not 
bear  to  part  from  him.  He  had  been  a  sickly  child,  often 
ill,  but  that  seemed  only  to  make  him  dearer  to  her.     She 


450  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

held  him  in  her  arms  thinking  how  empty  they  would  feel 
without  their  dear  burden.  She  kissed  him,  jealous  at  the 
thought  that  he  might  learn  to  know  and  love  another 
nurse,  and  she  felt  that  she  could  not  part  with  him. 
Making  up  her  mind  that  she  would  not,  she  wrapped  him 
up  warmly  and  slipped  quietly  from  the  house  carrying  the 
baby  in  her  arms.  She  then  ran  quickly  to  the  boat,  crept 
on  board,  and  was  well  out  on  the  Irish  Sea  before  it  was 
discovered  that  she  had  stolen  little  Jonathan  from  his 
mother.  ]Mrs.  Swift  was  poor,  Jonathan  was  not  strong, 
so  the  fond  and  daring  nurse  was  allowed  by  the  mother  to 
keep  her  little  charge  until  he  was  nearly  four.  Thus  for 
three  years  little  Jonathan  lived  with  his  nurse  at  White- 
haven, growing  strong  and  brown  in  the  sea  air.  She 
looked  after  him  lovingly,  and  besides  feeding  and  clothing 
him,  taught  him  so  well  that  Swift  tells  us  himself,  though 
it  seems  a  little  hard  to  believe,  that  he  could  spell  and  could 
read  any  chapter  in  the  Bible  before  he  was  three. 

After  Jonathan's  return  to  Ireland  his  uncle,  Godwin 
Swift,  seems  to  have  taken  charge  of  him,  and  when  he  was 
six  to  have  sent  him  to  a  good  school.  His  mother,  mean- 
while, went  home  to  her  own  people  in  England,  and 
although  mother  and  son  loved  each  other  they  were  little 
together  all  through  life.  At  fourteen  Godwin  Swift  sent 
his  nephew  from  school  to  Trinity  College,  Dublin.  But 
Swift  was  by  this  time  old  enough  to  know  that  he  was 
living  on  the  charity  of  his  uncle  and  the  knowledge  was 
bitter  to  his  proud  spirit.  Instead  of  spurring  him  on  the 
knowledge  weighed  him  down.  He  became  gloomy,  idle, 
and  wild.  He  afterwards  said  he  was  a  dunce  at  college 
and  "was  stopped  of  his  degree  for  dulness  and  insuffi- 
ciency." But  although  at  first  the  examiners  refused  to 
pass  him,  he  was  later,  for  some  reason,  given  a  special 
degree,  granted  by  favor  rather  than  gained  by  desert 
"in  a  manner  little  to  his  credit,"  says  bitter  Swift.     Jona- 


THE  "JOURNAL  TO  STELLA"  451 

than  gave  his  uncle  neither  love  nor  thanks  for  his  school- 
ing. "He  gave  me  the  education  of  a  dog,"  was  how  he 
spoke  of  it  years  after.  Yet  he  had  been  sent  to  the  best 
school  in  Ireland  and  to  college  later.  But  perhaps  it  was 
not  so  much  the  gift  as  the  manner  of  giving  which  Swift 
scorned.     We  cannot  tell. 

Soon  after  Jonathan  left  college  he  went  to  live  in  the 
house  of  Sir  William  Temple.  Temple  was  a  great  man  in 
his  day.  He  had  been  an  Ambassador,  the  friend  of  kings 
and  princes,  and  he  considered  himself  something  of  a 
scholar.  To  him  Swift  acted  as  a  kind  of  secretary.  To 
a  proud  man  the  post  of  secretary  or  chaplain  in  a  great 
house  was,  in  those  days,  no  happy  one.  It  was  a  position 
something  between  that  of  a  servant  and  a  friend,  and  in  it 
Swift's  haughty  soul  suffered  torments.  Sir  William,  no 
doubt,  meant  to  be  kind,  but  he  was  cold  and  condescend- 
ing, and  not  a  little  pompous  and  conceited.  Swift's  fierce 
pride  was  ready  to  fanc}^  insults  where  none  w^ere  meant, 
he  resented  being  "treated  like  a  schoolboy,"  and  during 
the  years  he  passed  in  Sir  William's  house  he  gathered  a 
store  of  bitterness  against  the  world  in  his  heart. 

But  in  spite  of  all  his  miseries  real  or  imaginary.  Swift 
had  at  least  one  pleasure.  Among  the  many  people 
making  up  the  great  household  there  w^as  a  little  girl  of 
seven  named  Esther  Johnson.  She  was  a  delicate  little 
girl  with  large  eyes  and  black  hair.  She  and  Swift  soon 
grew  to  be  friends,  and  he  spent  his  happiest  hours  teaching 
her  to  read  and  write.  It  is  pleasant  to  think  of  the  gloomy, 
untrained  genius  throwing  off  his  gloom  and  bending  all 
his  talents  to  the  task  of  teaching  and  amusing  this  little 
delicate  child  of  seven. 

With  intervals  between.  Swift  remained  in  Sir  William's 
household  for  about  five  years.  Here  he  began  to  write 
poetry,  but  when  he  showed  his  poems  to  Dryden,  who  was 
a  distant  kinsman,  he  got  little  encouragement.     "Cousin 


452  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Swift,"  said  the  great  man,  "you  will  never  be  a  poet." 
Here  was  another  blow  from  a  hostile  world  which  Swift 
could  never  either  forget  or  forgive. 

As  the  years  went  on  Swift  found  his  position  grow 
more  and  more  irksome.  At  last  he  began  to  think  of 
entering  the  Church  as  a  means  of  earning  an  independent 
livelihood  and  becoming  his  own  master.  And  one  day, 
having  a  quarrel  with  Sir  William,  he  left  his  house  in  a 
passion  and  went  back  to  Ireland.  Here  after  some 
trouble  he  was  made  a  priest  and  received  a  little  seaside 
parish  worth  about  a  hundred  pounds  a  year. 

Swift  was  now  his  own  master,  but  he  found  it  dull. 
He  had  so  few  parishioners  that  it  is  said  he  used  to  go 
down  to  the  seashore  and  skiff  stones  in  order  to  gather  a 
congregation.  For  he  thought  if  the  people  would  not 
come  to  hear  sermons  they  would  come  at  least  to  stare 
at  the  mad  clergj^man,  and  for  years  he  was  remembered 
as  the  "mad  clergyman."  And  now  because  he  found  his 
freedom  dull,  and  for  various  other  reasons,  when  Sir 
William  asked  him  to  come  back  he  gladly  came.  This 
time  he  was  much  happier  as  a  member  of  Sir  William's 
household  than  he  had  been  before. 

It  was  now  that  Swift  wrote  the  two  little  books  which 
first  made  him  famous.  These  were  The  Battle  of  the  Boohs 
and  A  Tale  of  a  Tub,  The  Battle  of  the  Books  rose  out  of  a 
silly  quarrel  in  which  Sir  William  Temple  had  taken  part 
as  to  whether  the  ancient  or  the  modern  writers  were  the 
best.  Swift  took  Temple's  side  and  wrote  to  prove  that  the 
ancient  writers  were  best.  But,  as  it  has  been  said,  he  wrote 
so  cleverly  that  he  proved  the  opposite  against  his  will, 
for  nowhere  in  the  writings  of  the  ancients  is  there  any- 
things  so  full  of  humor  and  satire  as  The  Battle  of  the  Books. 

Swift  imagines  a  real  battle  to  have  taken  place  among 
the  books  in  the  King's  library  at  St.  James's  Palace. 
The  books  leave  the  shelves,  some  on  horseback,  some  on 


THE  "JOURNAL  TO  STELLA"  453 

foot,  and  armed  with  sword  and  spear  throw  themselves 
into  the  fray,  but  we  are  left  quite  uncertain  as  to  who 
gained  the  victory.  This  little  book  is  a  satire,  and,  like  all 
Swift's  famous  satires,  is  in  prose  not  in  poetry.  In  the 
preface  he  says,  "Satire  is  a  sort  of  glass,  wherein  beholders 
do  generally  discover  everybody's  face  but  their  own; 
which  is  the  chief  reason  for  that  kind  reception  it  meets 
with  in  the  world,  and  that  so  very  few  are  offended  with 
it."  It  is  not  a  book  that  you  will  care  to  read  for  a  long 
time,  for  to  find  it  interesting  you  must  know  both  a  good 
deal  about  Swift's  own  times  and  about  the  books  that 
fight  the  battle. 

You  will  not  care  either  for  A  Tale  of  a  Tub.  And  yet 
it  is  the  book  above  all  others  which  one  must  read,  and 
read  with  understanding,  if  one  would  get  even  a  little 
knowledge  of  Swift's  special  genius.  It  was  the  book, 
nevertheless,  which  more  than  any  other  stood  in  his  way 
in  after  life. 

A  Tale  of  a  Tub  like  The  Battle  of  the  Books  is  a  satire, 
and  Swift  wrote  it  to  show  up  the  abuses  of  the  Church. 
He  tells  the  story  of  three  brothers,  Peter,  Martin  and 
Jack.  Peter  represents  the  Roman  Catholic,  Martin  the 
Anglican,  and  Jack  the  Presbyterian  Church.  He  meant, 
he  says,  to  turn  the  laugh  only  against  Peter  and  Jack. 
That  may  be  so,  but  his  treatment  of  Martin  cannot  be 
called  reverent.  Indeed,  reverence  was  impossible  to 
Swift.  There  is  much  good  to  be  said  of  him.  There  was 
a  fierce  righteousness  about  his  spirit  which  made  him  a 
better  parish  priest  than  many  a  more  pious  man.  He 
hated  shams,  he  hated  cant,  he  hated  bondage.  "Dr. 
Swift,"  it  was  said,  "hated  all  fanatics:  all  fanatics  hated 
Dr.  Swift."  ^  But  with  all  his  uprightness  and  breadth  he 
was  neither  devout  nor  reverent. 

When   Sir  Wilham  Temple  died   Swift  went  back  to 

^  Lord  Orrery 


454  ,       ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Ireland,  and  after  a  little  time  he  once  more  received  a 
Church  living  there.  But  here,  as  before,  his  parish  was 
very  small,  so  that  sometimes  he  had  only  his  clerk  as 
congregation.  Then  he  would  begin  the  service  with 
"Dearly  beloved  Roger,  the  Scripture  moveth  you  and 
me,"  instead  of  "Dearly  beloved  brethren,"  as  the  Prayer 
Book  has  it. 

Sir  William  had  left  Swift  some  money;  he  had  also 
left  some  to  Esther  Johnson,  the  little  girl  Swift  used  to 
teach.  She  had  grown  into  a  beautiful  and  witty  woman, 
and  now  she  too,  with  a  friend,  went  to  Ireland,  and  for  the 
rest  of  her  life  lived  there  near  Swift. 

The  strange  friendship  between  these  two,  between 
Esther  Johnson  and  Swift,  is  one  of  the  puzzles  in  Swift's 
life.  That  they  loved  each  other,  that  they  were  life-long 
friends,  every  one  knows.  But  were  they  ever  married? 
Were  they  man  and  wife?  That  question  remains  un- 
answered. 

Esther  is  the  Persian  word  for  star;  Stella  the  Latin. 
Swift  called  his  girl-friend  Stella,  and  as  Stella  she  has 
become  famous  in  our  literature.  For  when  Swift  was 
away  from  home  he  wrote  letters  to  her  which  we  now 
have  under  the  name  of  the  Journal  to  Stella.  Here 
we  see  the  great  man  in  another  light.  Here  he  is 
no  longer  armed  with  lightning,  his  pen  is  no  longer 
dipped  in  poison,  but  in  friendly,  simple  fashion  he  tells 
all  that  happens  to  him  day  by  day.  He  tells  what  he 
thinks  and  what  he  feels,  where  and  when  he  dines,  when 
he  gets  up,  and  when  he  goes  to  bed,  all  the  gossiping 
details  interesting  to  one  who  loves  us  and  whom  we  love. 
And  with  it  all  we  get  a  picture  of  the  times  in  which  he 
lived,  of  the  politics  of  the  day,  of  the  great  men  he  moved 
among.  Swift  always  addresses  both  Stella  and  her 
companion  Mistress  Dingley,  and  the  letters  are  every- 
where full  of  tender,  childish  nonsense.     He  invented  what 


THE  "JOURNAL  TO  STELLA"  455 

he  called  a  "little  language,"  using  all  sorts  of  quaint  and 
babyish  words  and  strange  strings  of  capital  letters, 
M.  D.,  for  instance,  meaning  my  dears,  ]M.  E.,  Madam 
Elderly,  or  D.  D.,  Dear  Dingley,  and  so  on.  Throughout, 
too,  we  come  on  little  bits  of  doggerel  rimes,  bad  puns, 
simple  jokes,  mixed  up  with  scraps  of  politics,  with 
threatenings  of  war,  with  party  quarrels,  with  all  kinds  of 
stray  fragments  of  news  which  bring  the  life  of  the  times 
vividly  before  us.  The  letters  were  never  meant  for  any 
one  but  Stella  and  INIistress  Dingley  to  see,  and  sometimes 
when  we  are  reading  the  affectionate  nonsense  we  feel  as 
if  no  one  ought  to  have  seen  it  but  these  two.  And  yet  it 
gives  us  one  whole  side  of  Swift  that  we  should  never  have 
known  but  for  it.  It  is  not  easy  to  give  an  idea  of  this 
book,  it  must  be  read  to  be  understood,  but  I  will  give  you 
a  few  extracts  from  it: — 

"Pshaw,  I  must  be  writing  to  those  dear  saucy  brats 
every  night,  whether  I  will  or  no,  let  me  have  what  business 
I  will,  or  come  home  ever  so  late,  or  be  ever  so  sleepy;  but 
an  old  saying  and  a  true  one, 

'Be  3^ou  lords,  or  be  you  earls, 
You  must  write  to  saucy  girls.' 

"I  was  to-day  at  Court  and  saw  Raymond  among  the 
beefeaters,  staying  to  see  the  Queen;  so  I  put  him  in  a 
better  station,  made  two  or  three  dozen  of  bows,  and  went 
to  Church,  and  then  to  Court  again  to  pick  up  a  dinner,  as 
I  did  with  Sir  John  Stanley,  and  then  we  went  to  visit 
Lord  JNIountjoy,  and  just  now  left  him,  and  'tis  near  eleven 
at  night,  young  women." 

Or  again: — 

"The  Queen  was  abroad  to-day  in  order  to  hunt,  but 
finding  it  disposed  to  rain  she  kept  in  her  coach;  she  hunts 
in  a  chaise  with  one  horse,  which  she  drives  herself,  and 
drives  furiously,  like  Jehu,  and  is  a  mighty  hunter,  like 


456  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Nimrod.  Dingley  has  heard  of  Nimrod,  but  not  Stella, 
for  it  is  in  the  Bible.  .  .  .  The  Queen  and  I  were  going  to 
take  the  air  this  afternoon,  but  not  together:  and  were  both 
hindered  by  a  sudden  rain.  Her  coaches  and  chaises  all 
went  back,  and  the  guards  too;  and  I  scoured  into  the 
marketplace  for  shelter." 

Another  day  he  writes: — 

"Pish,  sirrahs,  put  a  date  always  at  the  bottom  of  your 
letter,  as  well  as  the  top,  that  I  may  know  when  jou 
send  it;  your  last  is  of  November  3,  yet  I  had  others  at 
the  same  time,  written  a  fortnight  after.  .  .  .  Pray  let  us 
have  no  more  bussiness,  but  busyness.  Take  me  if  I  know 
how  to  spell  it!  Your  wrong  spelling,  Madam  Stella,  has 
put  me  out:  it  does  not  look  right;  let  me  see,  bussiness, 
busyness,  business,  bisyness,  bisness,  bysness;  faith,  I  know 
not  which  is  right,  I  think  the  second;  I  believe  I  never 
writ  the  word  in  my  life  before;  yes,  sure  I  must,  though; 
business,  busyness,  bisyness. — I  have  perplexed  myself,  and 
can't  do  it.  Prithee  ask  Walls.  Business,  I  fancy  that's 
right.  Yes  it  is;  I  looked  in  my  own  pamphlet,  and  found 
it  twice  in  ten  lines,  to  convince  you  that  I  never  writ  it 
before.  O,  now  I  see  it  as  plain  as  can  be;  so  yours  is 
only  an  s  too  much." 


CHAPTER  LXIV 

SWIFT— "GULLIVER'S  TRAVELS" 

During  the  years  in  which  Swift  found  time  to  write  these 
playful  letters  to  Stella  he  was  grovv^ing  into  a  man  of 
power.  Like  Defoe  he  was  a  journalist,  but  one  of  far 
more  authority.  The  power  of  his  pen  was  such  that  he  was 
courted  bj^  his  friends,  feared  by  his  enemies.  He  threw 
himself  into  the  struggle  of  party,  first  as  a  Whig,  then  as 
a  Tory;  but  as  a  friend  said  of  him  later,  "He  was  neither 
Whig  nor  Tory,  neither  Jacobite  nor  Republican.  He  was 
Dr.  Swift."  ^    He  was  now,  he  says : — 

"Grown  old  in  politicks  and  wit, 
Caress'd  by  ministers  of  State, 
Of  half  mankind  the  dread   and  hate."  ^ 

And  he  felt  that  he  deserved  reward  for  what  he  had  done 
for  his  party.  He  thought  that  he  should  have  been  made 
a  bishop.  But  even  in  those  days,  when  little  thought 
was  given  to  the  fitness  of  a  man  for  such  a  position,  the 
Queen  steadily  refused  to  make  the  author  of  A  Tale  of  a 
Tub  a  bishop. 

Again  Swift  felt  that  he  was  unjustly  treated,  and  even 
when  he  was  at  length  made  Dean  of  St.  Patrick's  that 
consoled  him  little.  He  longed  for  power,  and  owned  that 
he  was  never  so  happy  as  when  treated  like  a  lord.  He 
longed  for  wealth,  for  "wealth,"  he  said,  "is  liberty,  and 
liberty  is  a  blessing  fittest  for  a  philosopher."  And  if  Swift 
was  displeased  at  being  made  only  a  Dean,  the  Irish  people 

*Lord  Orrery.  'Cadenus  and  Vanessa. 

457 


458  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

were  equally  displeased  with  him  as  their  Dean.  As  he 
rode  through  the  streets  of  Dublin  to  take  possession  of 
his  Deanery,  the  people  threw  stones  and  mud  at  him  and 
hooted  him  as  he  passed.  The  clergy,  too,  made  his  work 
as  Dean  as  hard  as  possible.  But  Swift  set  himself  to 
conquer  them,  and  soon  he  had  his  own  way  even  in  trifles. 

We  cannot  follow  Swift  through  all  his  political  ad- 
ventures and  writings.  In  those  days  the  misgovernment 
of  Ireland  was  terrible,  and  Swift,  although  he  loved 
neither  Ireland  nor  the  Irish,  fought  for  their  rights  until, 
from  being  hated  by  them,  he  became  the  idol  of  the  people, 
and  those  who  had  thrown  mud  and  stones  now  cheered 
him  as  he  passed.  Wherever  he  went  he  was  received  with 
honor,  his  birthday  was  kept  as  a  day  of  rejoicing,  and  to 
this  day  Swift  is  held  in  remembrance  by  Irishmen  with 
gratitude.  But  even  in  his  hour  of  triumph  Swift  was  a 
lonely  and  discontented  man  as  we  maj^  learn  from  his 
letters. 

It  was  now  that  he  published  the  book  upon  which  his 
fame  most  surely  rests — Griillivers  Travels.  It  is  a  book 
which  has  given  pleasure  to  numberless  people  ever  since. 
Yet  Swift  said  himself:  "The  chief  end  I  propose  to  myself 
in  all  my  labours  is  to  vex  the  world  rather  than  divert 
it,  and  if  I  could  compass  that  design  without  hurting  my 
own  person  or  fortune,  I  would  be  the  most  indefatigable 
writer  you  have  ever  seen.  ...  I  hate  and  detest  that 
animal  called  man,  although  I  heartily  love  John,  Peter, 
Thomas,  and  so  forth.  .  .  .  Upon  this  great  foundation 
of  misanthropy,  the  whole  building  of  my  Travels  is 
erected." 

But  whether  Swift  at  the  time  vexed  the  world  with 
Gulliver  or  not,  ever  since  he  has  succeeded  in  diverting  it. 
Gulliver's  Travels  is  an  allegory  and  a  satire,  but  there  is 
no  need  now  to  do  more  than  enjoy  it  as  a  story. 

The    story   is   divided   into    four   parts.      In   the   first 


"GULLIVER'S  TRAVELS"  459 

Captain  Lemuel  Gulliver  being  wrecked  finds  himself  upon 
an  island  where  all  the  people  are  so  small  that  he  can  pick 
them  up  in  his  thumb  and  finger,  and  it  requires  six 
hundred  of  their  beds  to  make  one  for  him. 

In  the  second  part  Gulliver  comes  to  a  country  where 
the  people  are  giants.  They  are  so  large  that  they  in  their 
turn  can  lift  Gulliver  up  between  thumb  and  finger. 

In  the  third  voyage  Gulliver  is  taken  by  pirates  and  at 
last  lands  upon  a  flying  island,  and  from  there  he  passes 
on  to  other  wonderful  places. 

In  the  fourth  his  men  mutiny  and  put  him  ashore  on 
an  unknown  land.  There  he  finds  that  horses  are  the  rulers, 
and  a  terrible  kind  of  degraded  human  being  their  slaves 
and  servants. 

In  the  last  part  the  satire  is  too  bitter,  the  degradation 
of  man  too  terribly  insisted  upon  to  make  it  pleasant 
reading,  and  altogether  the  first  two  stories  are  the  most 
interesting. 

Here  is  how  Swift  tells  us  of  Gulliver's  arrival  in  Lilliput, 
the  country  of  the  tiny  folk.  After  the  shipwreck  and  a 
long  battle  with  the  waves  he  has  at  length  reached  land: — 

"I  lay  down  on  the  grass,  which  was  very  short  and 
soft,  where  I  slept  sounder  than  ever  I  remember  to  have 
done  in  my  life,  and,  as  I  reckoned,  about  nine  hours;  for 
when  I  awaked,  it  was  just  daylight.  I  attempted  to  rise, 
but  was  not  able  to  stir:  for  as  I  happened  to  lie  on  my 
back,  I  found  my  arms  and  legs  were  strongly  fastened 
on  each  side  to  the  ground;  and  my  hair,  which  was  long 
and  thick,  tied  down  in  the  same  manner. 

"I  could  only  look  upwards,  the  sun  began  to  grow  hot, 
and  the  light  offended  my  eyes.  I  heard  a  confused  noise 
about  me,  but  in  the  posture  I  lay,  could  see  nothing 
except  the  sky.  In  a  little  time  I  felt  something  alive 
moving  on  my  left  leg,  which  advancing  gently  forward 
over  my  breast,  came  almost  up  to  my  chin;  when  bending 


460  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

my  eyes  downwards  as  much  as  I  could,  I  perceived  it  to 
be  a  human  creature  not  six  inches  high,  with  a  bow  and 
arrow  in  his  hands,  and  a  quiver  at  his  back. 

"In  the  meantime,  I  felt  at  least  fifty  more  of  the  same 
kind  (as  I  conjectured)  following  the  first.  I  was  in  the 
utmost  astonishment,  and  roared  so  loud,  that  they  all 
ran  back  in  a  fright;  and  some  of  them,  as  I  was  after- 
wards told,  were  hurt  with  the  falls  they  got  by  leaping 
from  my  sides  upon  the  ground.  However,  they  soon 
returned,  and  one  of  them,  who  ventured  so  far  as  to 
get  a  full  sight  of  my  face,  lifting  up  his  hands  and  eyes 
by  way  of  admiration,  cried  out  in  a  shrill,  but  distinct 
voice,  Hehinali  degul:  the  others  repeated  the  same  words 
several  times,  but  then  I  knew  not  what  they  meant. 

"I  lay  all  this  while,  as  the  reader  may  believe,  in  great 
uneasiness:  at  length,  struggling  to  get  loose,  I  had  the 
fortune  to  break  the  strings,  and  wrench  out  the  pegs  that 
fastened  my  left  arm  to  the  ground;  for,  by  lifting  it  up 
to  my  face,  I  discovered  the  methods  they  had  taken  to 
bind  me,  and  at  the  same  time  with  a  violent  pull,  wliich 
gave  me  excessive  pain,  I  a  little  loosened  the  strings  that 
tied  down  my  hair  on  the  left  side,  so  that  I  was  just  able 
to  turn  my  head  about  two  inches. 

"But  the  creatures  ran  off  a  second  time,  before  I  could 
seize  them;  whereupon  there  was  a  great  shout  in  a  very 
shrill  accent,  and  after  it  ceased,  I  heard  one  of  them  cry 
aloud  Tolgo  pJionac,  when  in  an  instant  I  felt  above  an 
hundred  arrows  discharged  on  my  left  hand,  which  pricked 
me  like  so  many  needles;  and  besides,  they  shot  another 
flight  into  the  air,  as  we  do  bombs  in  Europe,  whereof  many, 
I  suppose,  fell  on  my  body  (though  I  felt  them  not)  and 
some  on  my  face,  which  I  inunediately  covered  with  my 
left  hand. 

"When  this  shower  of  arrows  was  over,  I  fell  a-groaning 
with  grief  and  pain,  and  then  striving  again  to  get  loose, 


"GULLIVER'S  TRAVELS"  461 

they  discharged  another  volley  larger  than  the  first,  and 
some  of  them  attempted  with  spears  to  stick  me  in  the 
sides,  but,  by  good  luck,  I  had  on  a  buff  jerkin,  which  they 
could  not  pierce." 

Gulliver  decided  that  the  best  thing  he  could  do  was  to 
lie  still  until  night  came  and  then,  having  his  left  hand 
already  loose,  he  w^ould  soon  be  able  to  free  himself.  How- 
ever, he  did  not  need  to  wait  so  long,  for  very  soon,  by 
orders  of  a  mannikin,  who  seemed  to  have  great  authority 
over  the  others,  his  head  was  set  free.  The  little  man  then 
made  a  long  speech,  not  a  word  of  which  Gulliver  under- 
stood, but  he  replied  meekly,  showing  by  signs  that  he  had 
no  wicked  intentions  against  the  tiny  folk  and  that  he  was 
also  very  hungry. 

"The  Hiirgo  (for  so  they  call  a  great  lord,  as  I  after- 
wards learnt)  understood  me  very  w^ell.  He  commanded 
that  several  ladders  should  be  applied  to  my  sides,  on 
which  above  an  hundred  of  the  inhabitants  mounted  and 
w^alked  towards  my  mouth,  laden  with  baskets  full  of  meat, 
which  had  been  provided  and  sent  thither  by  the  King's 
orders,  upon  the  first  intelligence  he  received  of  me.  I 
observed  there  was  the  flesh  of  several  animals,  but  could 
not  distinguish  them  by  the  taste.  There  were  shoulders, 
legs,  and  loins,  shaped  like  those  of  mutton,  and  very  well 
dressed,  but  smaller  than  the  wings  of  a  lark.  I  ate  them 
by  two  or  three  at  a  mouthful,  and  took  three  loaves  at  a 
time,  about  the  bigness  of  musket  bullets.  They  supplied 
me  as  fast  as  they  could,  showing  a  thousand  marks  of 
wonder  and  astonishment  at  my  bulk  and  appetite.  I 
then  made  another  sign  that  I  wanted  drink.  They  found 
by  my  eating,  that  a  small  quantity  would  not  suffice  me; 
and  being  a  most  ingenious  people,  they  slung  up  with 
great  dexterity  one  of  their  largest  hogsheads,  then  rolled 
it  towards  my  hand,  and  beat  out  the  top;  I  drank  it  off 
at  a  draught,  which  I  might  well  do,  for  it  did  not  hold  half 


462  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

a  pint,  and  tasted  like  a  small  wine  of  Burgundy,  but  much 
more  delicious.  They  brought  me  a  second  hogshead, 
which  I  drank  in  the  same  manner,  and  made  signs  for 
more,  but  they  had  none  to  give  me.  When  I  had  per- 
formed these  wonders,  they  shouted  for  joy,  and  danced 
upon  my  breast,  repeating  several  times  as  they  did  at  first 
HeMnah  degnlJ" 

And  now  having  introduced  you  and  Gulliver  to  the 
Lilliputians,  I  must  leave  you  to  hear  about  his  further 
adventures  among  them  from  the  book  itself.  There  you 
will  learn  how  Gulliver  received  his  freedom,  and  how  he 
lived  happily  among  the  little  peoj)le  until  at  length  Swift 
falls  upon  the  quaint  idea  of  having  him  impeached  for 
treason.  Gulliver  then,  hearing  of  this  danger,  escapes, 
and  after  a  few  more  adventures  arrives  at  home. 

As  a  contrast  to  what  you  have  just  read  you  may  like 
to  hear  of  Gulliver's  first  adventures  in  Brobdingnag,  the 
land  of  giants.  Gulliver  had  been  found  by  a  farmer  and 
carried  home.  When  the  farmer's  wife  first  saw  him 
"she  screamed  and  ran  back,  as  w^omen  in  England  do  at 
the  sight  of  a  toad  or  a  spider."  However,  when  she  saw 
that  he  was  only  a  tiny  man,  she  soon  grew  fond  of  him. 

"It  was  about  twelve  at  noon,  and  a  servant  brought  in 
dinner.  It  was  only  one  substantial  dish  of  meat  (fit  for 
the  plain  condition  of  an  husbandman)  in  a  dish  of  about 
four-and-twenty  foot  diameter.  The  company  were  the 
farmer  and  his  wife,  three  children,  and  an  old  grand- 
mother. When  they  were  sat  down,  the  farmer  placed  me 
at  some  distance  from  him  on  the  table,  which  was  thirty 
foot  high  from  the  floor.  I  was  in  a  terrible  fright,  and 
kept  as  far  as  I  could  from  the  edge  for  fear  of  falling.  The 
wife  minced  a  bit  of  meat,  then  crumbled  some  bread  on  a 
trencher,  and  placed  it  before  me.  I  made  her  a  low  bow, 
took  out  my  knife  and  fork,  and  fell  to  eat,  which  gave 
them  exceeding  delight.     The  mistress  sent  her  maid  for  a 


"GULLIVER'S  TRAVELS"  463 

small  dram  cup,  which  held  about  two  gallons,  and  filled 
it  with  drink.  I  took  up  the  vessel  with  much  difficulty  in 
both  hands,  and  in  a  most  respectful  manner  drank  to  her 
ladyship's  health,  expressing  the  words  as  loud  as  I  could 
in  English,  which  made  the  company  laugh  so  heartily, 
that  I  was  almost  deafened  with  the  noise.  .  .  . 

*'In  the  midst  of  dinner,  my  mistress's  favourite  cat 
leapt  into  her  lap.  I  heard  a  noise  behind  me  like  that 
of  a  dozen  stocking-weavers  at  work;  and  turning  my 
head,  I  found  it  proceeded  from  the  purring  of  this  animal, 
who  seemed  to  be  three  times  larger  than  an  ox,  as  I  com- 
puted by  the  view  of  her  head,  and  one  of  her  paws,  while 
her  mistress  was  feeding  and  stroking  her.  The  fierceness 
of  this  creature's  countenance  altogether  discomposed  me; 
though  I  stood  at  the  further  end  of  the  table,  above  fifty 
foot  off;  and  although  my  mistress  held  her  fast  for  fear 
she  might  give  a  spring,  and  seize  me  in  her  talons.  But 
it  happened  there  was  no  danger;  for  the  cat  took  not  the 
least  notice  of  me  when  my  master  placed  me  within  three 
yards  of  her.  And  as  I  have  been  always  told,  and  found 
true  by  experience  in  my  travels,  that  flying,  or  dis- 
covering fear  before  a  fierce  animal,  is  a  certain  way  to 
make  it  pursue  or  attack  you,  so  I  resolved  in  this  danger- 
ous juncture  to  show  no  manner  of  concern.  I  walked 
with  intrepidity  five  or  six  times  before  the  very  head  of 
the  cat,  and  came  within  half  a  yard  of  her;  whereupon  she 
drew  herself  back,  as  if  she  were  more  afraid  of  me." 

When  it  was  published  Gullivefs  Travels  was  at  once 
a  great  success.  Ten  days  after  it  appeared,  two  poets 
wrote  to  Swift  that  "the  whole  town,  men,  women,  and 
childi'en  are  quite  full  of  it." 

For  nearly  twenty  years  longer  Swift  lived,  then  sad  to 
say  the  life  of  the  man  who  wrote  for  us  these  fascinating 
tales  closed  in  gloom  without  relief.  Stella,  his  life-long 
friend,  died.    That  left  him  forlorn  and  desolate.    Then,  as 


464  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  years  passed,  darker  and  darker  gloom  settled  upon  his 
spirit.  Disease  crept  over  both  mind  and  body,  he  was 
tortured  by  pain,  and  when  at  length  the  pain  left  him  he 
sank  into  torpor.  It  was  not  madness  that  had  come  upon 
him,  but  a  dumb  stupor.  For  more  than  two  years  he 
lived,  but  it  was  a  living  death.  Without  memory,  with- 
out hope,  the  great  genius  had  become  the  voiceless  ruin 
of  a  man.  But  at  length  a  merciful  end  came.  On  an 
October  day  in  1745  Swift  died.  He  who  had  torn  his  own 
heart  with  restless  bitterness,  who  had  suffered  and  caused 
others  to  suffer,  had  at  last  found  rest. 

He  was  buried  at  dead  of  night  in  his  own  cathedral 
and  laid  by  Stella's  side,  and  over  his  grave  were  carved 
words  chosen  by  himself  which  tol  the  wayfarer  that 
Jonathan  Swift  had  gone  "Where  savage  indignation 
can  no  longer  tear  at  his  heart.  Go,  wayfarer,  and 
imitate,  if  thou  canst,  a  man  who  did  all  a  man  may  do 
as  a  valiant  champion  of  liberty." 


BOOKS  TO  READ 

Stories  of  Gulliver,  by  J.  Lang.  Gulliver's  Travels.  Gulliver's  Travels 
(Everyman's  Library). 

Note: — These  two  last  are  both  the  same  text  and  are  illustrated  bj'  A.  Rack- 
ham.  It  is  the  edition  in  Temple  Classics  for  Young  People  that  is  recom- 
mended, not  that  in  the  Temple  Classics. 


CHAPTER  LXV 

ADDISON— THE  "SPECTATOR" 

Swift's  wit  makes  us  laugh,  but  it  leaves  us  on  the  whole, 
perhaps,  a  little  sad.  Now  we  come  to  a  satirist  of  quite 
another  spirit  whose  wit,  it  has  been  said,  "makes  us 
laugh  and  leaves  us  good  and  happy."  ^ 

Joseph  Addison  was  the  son  of  a  Dean.  He  was 
born  in  1672  in  the  quaint  little  thatched  parsonage  of 
INIilston,  a  Wiltshire  village,  not  far  from  that  strange 
monument  of  ancient  days,  Stonehenge.  When  he  was 
old  enough  Joseph  was  sent  first  to  schools  near  his 
home,  and  then  a  little  later  to  the  famous  Charterhouse 
in  London.  Of  his  schooldays  we  know  little,  but  we 
can  guess,  for  one  story  that  has  come  down  to  us, 
that  he  was  a  shy,  nervous  boy.  It  is  said  that  once, 
having  done  something  a  little  wrong,  he  was  so  afraid 
of  what  punishment  might  follow  that  he  ran  away.  He 
hid  in  a  wood,  sleeping  in  a  hollow  tree  and  feeding  on 
wild  berries  until  he  was  found  and  taken  home  to  his 
parents. 

At  Charterhouse  Joseph  met  another  boy  named 
Dick  Steele,  and  these  two  became  fast  friends  although 
they  were  very  different  from  each  other.  For  Dick 
was  merry,  noisy,  and  fun-loving,  and  although  Joseph 
loved  fun  too  it  was  in  a  quiet,  shy  way.  Dick,  who 
was  a  few  weeks  older  than  Joseph,  was  the  son  of  a 
well-to-do  lawyer.     He  was  born  in  Ireland,  but  did  not 

*  Thackeray. 
465 


466  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

remain  there  long.  For,  as  both  his  father  and  mother 
died  when  he  was  still  a  little  boy,  he  was  brought  to 
England  to  be  taken  care  of  by  an  uncle. 

From  Charterhouse  Joseph  and  Dick  both  went  to 
Oxford,  but  to  different  Colleges.  Dick  left  the  University 
without  taking  his  degree  and  became  a  soldier,  while 
Joseph  stayed  many  years  and  became  a  man  of  learning. 

Joseph  Addison  had  gone  to  College  with  the  idea  of 
becoming  a  clergyman  like  his  father,  but  after  a  time  he 
gave  up  that  idea,  and  turned  his  thoughts  to  politics. 
The  politicians  of  the  day  were  always  on  the  lookout 
for  clever  men,  who,  by  their  w^-itings,  would  help  to 
sway  the  people  to  their  way  of  thinking.  Already 
at  college  Addison  had  become  known  by  his  Latin 
poetry,  and  three  Whig  statesmen  thought  so  highly 
of  it  that  they  offered  him  a  pension  of  £300  a  year  to 
allow  him  to  travel  on  the  Continent  and  learn  French, 
and  so  add  to  his  learning  as  to  be  able  to  help  their  side 
by  his  writing.  Addison  accepted  the  pension  and  set 
out  on  his  travels.  For  four  years  he  wandered  about 
the  Continent,  adding  to  his  store  of  knowledge  of  men 
and  books,  meeting  many  of  the  foremost  men  of  letters 
of  his  day.  But  long  before  he  returned  home  his  friends 
had  fallen  from  power  and  his  pension  was  stopped. 
So  back  in  London  we  find  him  cheerfully  betaking 
himself  to  a  poor  lodging  up  three  flights  of  stairs,  hoping 
for  something  to  turn  up. 

These  were  the  days  of  the  War  of  the  Spanish  Succes- 
sion and  of  the  brilliant  victories  of  Marlborough  of  which 
you  have  read  in  the  history  of  the  time  of  Anne. 
Blenheim  had  been  fought.  All  England  was  ringing 
with  the  praises  of  the  great  General  in  prose  and  verse. 
But  the  verse  was  poor,  and  it  seemed  to  those  in  power 
that  this  great  victory  ought  to  be  celebrated  more 
worthily,   so   the   Lord   Treasurer   looked   about  him   for 


THE  "SPECTATOR"  467 

some  one  who  could  sing  of  it  in  fitting  fashion.  The  right 
person,  however,  seemed  hard  to  find,  and  the  laureate 
of  the  day,  an  honest  gentleman  named  Xahum  Tate, 
who  could  hardly  be  called  a  poet,  was  quite  unable  for 
the  task.  To  help  the  Lord  Treasurer  out  of  his  difficulty 
one  of  the  great  men  who  had  already  befriended  Addison 
suggested  him  as  a  suitable  writer.  And  so  one  morning 
Addison  was  surprised  in  his  little  garret  by  a  visit  from 
no  less  a  person  than  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 

A  shy  boy  at  school,  Addison  had  grovrn  into  a  shy, 
retiring  man,  and  no  doubt  he  was  not  a  little  taken  aback 
at  a  visit  from  so  great  a  personage.  The  Chancellor, 
however,  soon  put  him  at  his  ease,  told  him  what  he  had 
come  about,  and  begged  him  to  undertake  the  Avork. 
"In  short,  the  Chancellor  said  so  many  obliging  things, 
and  in  so  graceful  a  manner,  as  gave  ^Ir.  Addison  the 
utmost  spirit  and  encouragement  to  begin  that  poem,  which 
he   afterwards   published    and   entitled    The   Campaign."  ^ 

The  poem  was  a  great  success,  and  besides  being 
paid  for  the  work,  Addison  received  a  Government  post, 
so  once  more  life  ran  smoothly  for  him.  He  had  now 
both  money  and  leisure.  His  Government  duties  left 
him  time  to  write,  and  in  the  next  fev/  years  he  published 
a  delightful  book  of  his  travels,  and  an  opera. 

Shy,  humorous,  courteous,  Addison  steadily  grew 
popular.  Everything  went  well  with  him.  "If  he  had 
a  mind  to  be  chosen  king  he  would  hardly  be  refused," 
said  Swift.  He,  however,  only  became  a  member  of 
Parliament.  But  he  was  too  shy  ever  to  make  a  speech, 
and  presently  he  went  to  Ireland  as  Secretary  of  State. 
Swift  and  Addison  already  knew  each  other,  and  Addison 
had  sent  a  copy  of  his  travels  to  Swift  as  "to  the  most 
agreeable  companion,  the  truest  friend,  and  the  greatest 
genius  of  his  age."     Now  in  Ireland  they  saw  much  of 

^  Budgell,  Memories  of  the  BoyJes. 


468  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

each  other,  and  although  they  were,  as  Swift  hunself  says, 
as  different  as  black  and  white,  they  became  fast  friends. 
And  even  later,  in  those  daj^s  of  bitter  party  feeling, 
when  Swift  left  his  own  side  and  became  a  Tory,  though 
their  friendship  cooled,  they  never  became  enemies. 
Swift's  bitter  pen  was  never  turned  against  his  old 
friend.  Addison  with  all  his  humor  and  his  satire  never 
attacked  any  man  personally,  so  their  relations  continued 
friendly  and  courteous  to  the  end. 

In  the  Journal  to  Stella  we  find  many  entries  about 
this  difficulty  between  the  friends,  "Mr.  Addison  and  I 
are  as  different  as  black  and  white,  and  I  believe  our 
friendship  will  go  off  by  this  business  of  party.  But  I 
love  him  still  as  much  as  ever,  though  we  seldom  meet." 
"All  our  friendship  and  dearness  are  off.  We  are  civil 
acquaintance,  talk  words  of  course,  of  when  we  shall 
meet,  and  that's  all.  Is  it  not  odd?"  Then  later  the 
first  bitterness  of  difference  seems  to  pass,  and  Swift 
tells  how  he  went  to  Addison's  for  supper.  "We  were 
very  good  company,  and  I  yet  know  no  man  half  so 
agreeable  to  me  as  he  is." 

It  was  while  Addison  was  in  Ireland  that  Richard 
Steele  started  a  paper  called  the  Tatler.  When  Addison 
found  out  that  it  was  his  old  friend  Dick  who  had  started 
the  Tatler  he  offered  to  help.  And  he  helped  to  such 
good  purpose  that  Steele  says,  "I  fared  like  a  distressed 
prince  who  calls  in  a  powerful  neighbour  to  his  aid.  I 
was  undone  by  my  own  auxiliary;  when  I  had  once  called 
him  in,  I  could  not  subsist  without  dependence  on  him." 

This  was  the  beginning  of  a  long  literary  partnership 
that  has  become  famous.  Never  perhaps  were  two  friends 
more  different  in  character.  Yet,  says  Steele,  long  after, 
speaking  of  himself  and  Addison,  "There  never  was  a 
more  strict  friendship  than  between  those  gentlemen, 
nor   had   they   ever    any    difference   but    what   proceeded 


THE  "SPECTATOR"  469 

from  their  different  way  of  pursuing  the  same  thing. 
The  one  with  joatience,  foresight,  and  temperate  address, 
always  waited  and  stemmed  the  torrent;  while  the  other 
often  plunged  himself  into  it,  and  was  as  often  taken  out 
b}^  the  temper  of  him  who  stood  weeping  on  the  brink 
for  his  safety,  whom  he  could  not  dissuade  from  leaping 
into  it.  .  .  .  When  they  met  they  were  as  unreserved 
as  boys,  and  talked  of  the  greatest  affairs,  upon  which 
they  saw  where  they  differed,  without  pressing  (what 
Piey  knew  impossible)   to  convert  each  other."  ^ 

The  Tatler,  like  Defoe's  Beview,  was  a  leaflet  of  two 
or  three  pages,  published  three  times  a  week.  The 
Review  and  other  papers  of  the  same  kind  no  doubt 
prepared  the  way  for  the  Tatler.  But  the  latter  was 
written  with  far  greater  genius,  and  while  the  Review 
is  ahnost  forgotten  the  Tatler  is  still  remembered  and 
still  read. 

In  the  first  number  Steele  announced  that: — "All 
accounts  of  gallantry,  pleasure  and  entertainment,  shall 
be  under  the  article  of  White's  Chocolate-House;  Poetry 
under  that  of  Wills'  Coffee-House;  learning  under  the 
title  of  Grecian;  foreign  and  domestic  news  you  will  have 
from  Saint  James's  Coffee-House;  and  what  else  I  have 
to  offer  on  any  other  subject  shall  be  dated  from  my  own 
apartment." 

The  coffee-houses  and  chocolate-houses  were  the  clubs 
of  the  day.  It  was  there  the  wits  gathered  together  to 
talk,  just  as  in  the  days  of  Ben  Jonson  they  gathered  at 
the  INIermaid  Tavern.  And  in  these  still  nearly  news- 
paperless  days  it  was  in  the  coffee-houses  that  the 
latest  news,  whether  of  politics  or  literature  or  sheer 
gossip,  was  heard  and  discussed.  At  one  coffee-house 
chiefly  statesmen  and  politicians  would  gather,  at 
another  poets  and  wits,  and  so  on.     So  Steele  dated  each 

» Steele  in  the  Theatre,  \2. 


470  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

article  from  the  coffee-house  at  which  the  subject  of  it 
would  most  naturally  be  discussed. 

Steele  meant  the  Tatler  to  be  a  newspaper  in  which 
one  might  find  all  the  news  of  the  day,  but  he  also  meant 
it  to  be  something  more. 

You  have  heard  that,  after  the  Restoration,  many  of 
the  books  that  w^ere  written,  and  plays  that  were  acted, 
were  coarse  and  wicked,  and  the  people  who  read  these 
books  and  watched  these  plays  led  coarse  and  wicked 
lives.  And  now  a  rollicking  soldier,  noisy,  good-hearted 
Dick  Steele,  "a  rake  among  scholars,  and  a  scholar  among 
rakes"  ^  made  up  his  mind  to  try  to  make  things  better 
and  give  people  something  sweet  and  clean  to  read  daily. 
The  Tatler,  especially  after  Addison  joined  with  Steele 
in  producing  it,  was  a  great  success.  But,  as  time  went 
on,  although  it  continued  to  be  a  newspaper,  gradually 
more  room  w^as  given  to  fiction  than  to  fact,  and  to  essaj^s 
on  all  manner  of  subjects  than  to  the  news  of  the  day. 
For  Addison  is  among  the  greatest  of  our  essayists.  But 
although  these  essays  were  often  meant  to  teach  some- 
thing, neither  Steele  nor  Addison  are  always  trying  to 
be  moral  or  enforce  a  lesson.  At  times  the  papers  fairly 
bubble  with  fun.  One  of  the  best  humorous  articles 
in  the  Tailei'  is  one  in  which  Addison  gives  a  pre- 
tended newly  found  story  by  our  old  friend  Sir  John 
Mandeville.  It  is  perhaps  as  delightful  a  lying  tale  as 
any  that  "learned  and  worthy  knight"  ever  invented. 
Here  is  a  jDart  of  it : — 

"We  were  separated  by  a  storm  in  the  latitude  of  73, 
insomuch  that  only  the  ship  which  I  was  in,  with  a  Dutch 
and  French  vessel,  got  safe  into  a  creek  of  TsTova  Zembla. 
We  landed,  in  order  to  refit  our  vessels,  and  store  ourselves 
with  provisions.  The  crew  of  each  vessel  made  them- 
selves a  cabin  of  turf  and  wood,  at  some  distance  from 

^  Macaulay. 


THE  "SPECTATOR"  471 

each  other,  to  fence  themselves  againts  the  inclemencies 
of  the  weather,  which  was  severe  beyond  imagination. 

"We  soon  observed,  that  in  talking  to  one  another 
we  lost  several  of  our  words,  and  could  not  hear  one  another 
at  above  two  yards'  distance,  and  that  too  when  we  sat 
very  near  the  fire.  After  much  perplexity,  I  found  that 
our  words  froze  in  the  air  before  they  could  reach  the  ears 
of  the  persons  to  whom  they  were  spoken.  I  was  soon 
confirmed  in  this  conjecture,  when,  upon  the  increase  of 
the  cold,  the  whole  companj^  grew  dumb,  or  rather  deaf. 
For  every  man  was  sensible,  as  we  afterwards  found, 
that  he  spoke  as  well  as  ever,  but  the  sounds  no  sooner 
took  air  than  they  were  condensed  and  lost. 

"It  was  now  a  miserable  spectacle  to  see  us  nodding 
and  gaping  at  one  another,  every  man  talking,  and  no  man 
heard.  One  might  observe  a  seaman  that  could  hail  a 
ship  at  a  league  distance,  beckoning  with  his  hands, 
straining  his  lungs,  and  tearing  his  throat,  but  all  in  vain. 

"We  continued  here  three  weeks  in  this  dismal  plight. 
At  length,  upon  a  turn  of  wind,  the  air  about  us  began 
to  thaw.  Our  cabin  was  immediately  filled  with  a  dry 
clattering  sound,  which  I  afterwards  found  to  be  the 
crackling  of  consonants  that  broke  above  our  heads,  and 
were  often  mixed  with  a  gentle  hissing,  which  I  imputed 
to  the  letter  S,  that  occurs  so  frequently  in  the  English 
tongue. 

"I  soon  after  felt  a  breeze  of  whispers  rushing  by  my 
ear;  for  those,  being  of  a  soft  and  gentle  substance, 
immediately  liquified  in  the  warm  wind  that  blew  across 
our  cabin.  These  were  soon  followed  by  syllables  and 
short  words,  and  at  length  by  entire  sentences,  that 
melted  sooner  or  later,  as  they  were  more  or  less  congealed; 
so  that  we  now  heard  everything  that  had  been  spoken 
during  the  whole  three  weeks  that  we  had  been  silent; 
if  I  may  use  that  expression. 


472  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"It  was  now  very  early  in  the  morning,  and  yet,  to 
my  surprise,  I  heard  somebody  say,  'Sir  John,  it  is  mid- 
night, and  time  for  the  ship's  crew  to  go  to  bed.'  This 
I  knew  to  be  the  pilot's  voice,  and  upon  recollecting  myself 
I  concluded  that  he  had  spoken  these  words  to  me  some 
days  before,  though  I  could  not  hear  them  before  the 
present  thaw.  My  reader  will  easily  imagine  how  the 
whole  crew  was  amazed  to  hear  every  man  talking,  and 
seeing  no  man  opening  his  mouth." 

When  the  confusion  of  voices  was  pretty  well  over 
Sir  John  proposed  a  visit  to  the  Dutch  cabin,  and  so  they 
set  out.  "At  about  half  a  mile's  distance  from  our  cabin, 
we  heard  the  groanings  of  a  bear,  which  at  first  startled 
us.  But  upon  inquiry  we  were  informed  by  some  of  our 
company,  that  he  was  dead,  and  now  lay  in  salt,  having 
been  killed  upon  that  very  spot  about  a  fortnight  before, 
in  the  time  of  the  frost." 

Having  reached  the  Dutch  cabin  the  company  was 
almost  stunned  by  the  confusion  of  sounds,  and  could 
not  make  out  a  word  for  about  half  an  hour.  This,  Sir 
John  thinks,  was  because  the  Dutch  language  being  so 
much  harsher  than  ours  it  "wanted  more  time  than  ours 
to  melt  and  become  audible." 

Next  they  visited  the  French  cabin  and  here  Sir  John 
says,  "I  was  convinced  of  an  error  into  which  I  had  before 
fallen.  For  I  had  fancied,  that  for  the  freezing  of  the 
sound,  it  was  necessary  for  it  to  be  wrapped  up,  and,  as  it 
were,  preserved  in  breath.  But  I  found  my  mistake, 
when  I  heard  the  sound  of  a  kit  playing  a  minuet  over 
our  heads." 

The  kit  was  a  small  violin  to  the  sound  of  which  the 
Frenchmen  had  danced  to  amuse  themselves  while  they 
were  deaf  or  dumb.  How  it  was  that  the  kit  could  be 
heard  during  the  frost  and  yet  still  be  heard  in  the  thaw 
we  are  not  told.     Sir  John  gave  very  good  reasons,  says 


THE  "SPECTATOR"  473 

Addison,  but  as  they  are  somewhat  long  "I  pass  over 
them  in  silence."  ^ 

Addison  and  Steele  carried  on  the  Tatler  for  two  years, 
then  it  was  stopped  to  make  way  for  a  far  more  famous 
paper  called  the  Spectator.  But  meanwhile  the  Whigs 
fell  from  power  and  Addison  lost  his  Government  post. 
In  twelve  months,  he  said  to  a  friend,  he  lost  a  place 
worth  two  thousand  pounds  a  year,  an  estate  in  the  Indies, 
and,  worst  of  all,  his  lady-love.  Who  the  lady-love  was  is 
not  known,  but  doubtless  she  was  some  great  lady  ready 
enough  to  marry  a  Secretary  of  State,  but  not  a  poor 
scribbler. 

As  Addison  had  now  no  Government  post,  it  left  him  all 
the  more  time  for  writing,  and  his  essays  in  the  Spectator 
are  what  we  chiefly  remember  him  by. 

The  Spectator  was  still  further  from  the  ordinary 
newspaper  than  the  Tatler.  It  was  more  perhaps  what 
our  modern  magazines  are  meant  to  be,  but,  instead  of 
being  published  once  a  week  or  once  a  month,  it  was 
published  every  morning. 

In  order  to  give  interest  to  the  paper,  instead  of  dating 
the  articles  from  various  coffee-houses,  as  had  been  done 
in  the  Tatler,  Addison  and  Steele  between  them  imagined 
a  club.  And  it  is  the  doings  of  these  members,  their 
characters,  and  their  lives,  which  supply  subjects  for  many 
of  the  articles.  In  the  first  numbers  of  the  Spectator 
these  members  are  described  to  us. 

First  of  all  there  is  the  Spectator  himself.  He  is  the 
editor  of  the  paper.  It  is  he  who  with  kindly  humorous 
smile  and  grave  twinkle  in  his  eye  is  to  be  seen  everywhere. 
He  is  seen,  and  he  sees  and  listens,  but  seldom  opens  his 
lips.  "In  short,"  he  says,  "I  have  acted  in  all  the  parts 
of  my  life  as  a  looker-on."  And  that  is  the  meaning  of 
Spectator — the   looker-on.     This    on-looker,   there   can   be 

^  Tatler,  254. 


474  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

little  doubt,  was  meant  to  be  a  picture  of  Addison  himself. 
In  a  later  paper  he  tells  us  that  "he  was  a  man  of  a  very 
short  face,  extremely  addicted  to  silence  .  .  .  and  was 
a  great  humorist  in  all  parts  of  his  life."  ^  And  when 
you  come  to  know  Mr.  Spectator  well,  I  think  you  will 
love  this  grave  humorist. 

After  Mr.  Spectator,  the  chief  member  of  the  Club 
was  Sir  Roger  de  Coverley.  "His  great-grandfather 
was  inventor  of  that  famous  country  dance  which  is 
called  after  him.  All  who  know  that  shire  (in  which  he 
lives),  are  very  well  acquainted  with  the  parts  and  merits 
of  Sir  Roger.  He  is  a  gentleman  that  is  very  singular 
in  his  behaviour,  but  his  singularities  proceed  from 
his  good  sense,  and  are  contradictions  to  the  manners 
of  the  world,  only  as  he  thinks  the  world  is  in  the  wrong." 
He  was  careless  of  fashion  in  dress,  and  wore  a  coat  and 
doublet  which,  he  used  laughingly  to  say,  had  been  in 
and  out  twelve  times  since  he  first  vrore  it.  "He  is  now 
in  his  fifty-sixth  year,  cheerful,  gay,  and  hearty;  keeps 
a  good  house  both  in  town  and  country;  a  great  lover 
of  mankind;  but  there  is  such  a  mirthful  cast  in  his 
behaviour,  that  he  is  rather  beloved  than  esteemed. 
His  tenants  grow  rich,  his  servants  look  satisfied.  All 
the  j^oung  women  profess  love  to  him  and  the  young  men 
are  glad  of  his  company.  When  he  comes  into  a  house  he 
calls  the  servants  by  their  names,  and  talks  all  the  way 
upstairs  to  a  visit." 

Next  came  a  lawyer  of  the  Inner  Temple,  who  had 
become  a  lawyer  not  because  he  wanted  to  be  one,  but 
because  he  wanted  to  please  his  old  father.  He  had 
been  sent  to  London  to  study  the  laws  of  the  land,  but 
he  liked  much  better  to  study  those  of  the  stage.  "He 
is  an  excellent  critic,  and  the  time  of  the  play  is  his  hour 
of  business.    Exactly  at  five  he  passes  through  New  Inn, 

^Spectator,  101. 


•ADniSOX    AND    STEELE    BETWEEN    THEM    IMAGINED    A    CLUB.' 


THE  "SPECTATOR"  475 

crosses  through  Russell  Court,  and  takes  a  turn  at  Wills* 
till  the  play  begins.  He  has  his  shoes  rubbed  and  his 
periwig  powdered  at  the  barber's  as  you  go  into  the  Rose." 

Next  comes  Sir  Andrew^  Freeport,  "a  merchant  of 
great  eminence  in  the  City  of  London."  "He  abounds 
in  several  frugal  maxims,  amongst  which  the  greatest 
favorite  is,  'A  penny  saved  is  a  penny  got.'  " 

"Next  to  Sir  Andrew  in  the  Club  room  sits  Captain 
Sentry,  a  gentleman  of  great  courage,  good  understanding, 
but  invincible  modesty.  He  was  some  years  a  captain, 
and  behaved  himself  with  great  gallantry  in  several 
engagements  and  at  several  sieges.  But  having  a  small 
estate  of  his  own,  and  being  next  heir  to  Sir  Roger,  he 
has  quitted  a  w^ay  of  life  in  which  no  man  can  rise  suitably 
to  his  merit,  who  is  not  something  of  a  courtier  as  well 
as  a  soldier.  The  military  part  of  his  life  has  furnished 
him  with  many  adventures,  in  the  relation  of  which  he 
is  very  agreeable  to  the  company,  for  he  is  never  over- 
bearing, though  accustomed  to  command  men  in  the  utmost 
degree  below  him,  nor  ever  too  obsequious,  from  an  habit 
of  obeying  men  highly  above  him. 

"But  that  our  society  may  not  appear  a  set  of  humor- 
ists, unacquainted  with  the  gallantries  and  pleasures  of 
the  age,  we  have  among  us  the  gallant  Will  Honeycomb, 
a  gentleman  w^ho,  according  to  his  years,  should  be  in 
the  decline  of  his  life.  But  having  ever  been  very  careful 
of  his  person,  and  always  had  a  very  easy  fortune,  time 
has  made  but  very  little  impression,  either  by  wrinkles 
on  his  forehead,  or  traces  in  his  brain.  His  person  is 
well  turned,  of  a  good  height.  He  is  very  ready  at  that 
sort  of  discourse  with  which  men  usually  entertain  women. 
He  has  all  his  life  dressed  very  well,  and  remembers  habits 
as  others  do  men.  He  can  smile  when  one  speaks  to  him, 
and  laugh  easily."  He  is  in  fact  an  old  beau,  a  regular 
man   about   town,   "a  well-bred,  fine   gentleman,"   yet   no 


476  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

great  scholar,  "he  spelt  like  a  gentleman  and  not  like  a 
scholar,"  ^  he  says. 

Last  of  all  there  is  a  clergyman,  a  man  of  "general 
learning,  great  sanctity  of  life,  and  the  most  exact  breed- 
ing." He  seldom  comes  to  the  Club,  "but  when  he  does  it 
adds  to  every  man  else  a  new  enjoyment  of  himself." 

This  setting  forth  of  the  characters  in  the  story  will 
remind  you  a  little  perhaps  of  Chaucer  in  his  Prologue 
to  the  Canterhiiry  Tales.  As  he  there  gives  us  a  clear 
picture  of  England  in  the  time  of  Edward  iii.,  so  Addison 
gives  us  a  clear  picture  of  England  in  the  time  of  Anne. 
And  although  the  essays  are  in  the  main  unconnected, 
the  slight  story  of  these  characters  runs  through  them, 
weaving  them  into  a  whole.  You  may  pick  up  a  volume 
of  the  Spectator  and  read  an  essay  here  or  there  at  will 
with  enjoyment,  or  you  may  read  the  whole  six  hundred 
one  after  the  other  and  find  in  them  a  slight  but  interesting 
story. 

You  know  that  the  books  many  of  your  grown-up 
friends  read  most  are  called  novels.  But  in  the  days 
when  Joseph  Addison  and  Richard  Steele  wrote  the 
Spectator,  there  were  no  novels.  Even  Defoe's  stories 
had  not  yet  appeared,  and  it  was  therefore  a  new  delight 
for  our  forefathers  to  have  the  adventures  of  the  Spectator 
Club  each  day  with  their  morning  cup  of  tea  or  chocolate. 
"Mr.  Spectator,"  writes  one  lady,  "your  paper  is  part 
of  m)^  tea  equipage,  and  my  servant  knows  my  humour 
so  well,  that  calling  for  my  breakfast  this  morning  (it 
being  past  my  usual  hour)  she  answered,  the  Spectator 
was  not  yet  come  in,  but  that  the  tea-kettle  boiled,  and 
she  expected  it  every  moment." 

Thus  the  Spectator  had  then  become  part  of  everyday, 
life  just  as  our  morning  newspapers  have  now,  and  there 
must  have   been  many  regrets   among   the   readers   when 

'  Spectator,  105. 


THE  "SPECTATOR"  477 

one  member  of  the  supposed  Club  died,  another  married 
and  settled  down,  and  so  on  until  at  length  the  Club  was 
entirely  dispersed  and  the  Spectator  ceased  to  appear. 
It  may  interest  you  to  know  that  the  paper  we  now  call 
the  Spectator  was  not  begun  until  more  than  a  hundred 
years  after  its  great  namesake  ceased  to  appear,  the  first 
number  being  published  in  1828. 

It  was  after  the  Spectator  ceased  that  Addison  pub- 
lished his  tragedy  called  Cato.  Cato  was  a  great  Roman 
who  rebelled  against  the  authority  of  Caesar  and  in  the 
end  killed  himself.  His  is  a  story  out  of  which  a  good 
tragedy  might  be  made.  But  Addison's  genius  is  not 
dramatic,  and  the  play  does  not  touch  our  hearts  as 
Shakespeare's  tragedies  do.  Yet,  although  we  cannot 
look  upon  Addison's  Cato  as  a  really  great  tragedy,  there 
are  lines  in  it  which  every  one  remembers  and  quotes, 
although  they  may  not  know  where  they  come  from. 
Such  are,  for  instance,  "Who  deliberates  is  lost,"  and 

"  'Tis  not  in  mortals  to  commana  success. 

But  we'll  do  more,  Sempronius,  we'll  deserve  it." 

But  although  Cato  is  not  really  great,  the  writer  was  per- 
haps the  most  popular  man  of  his  day,  and  so  his  tragedy 
was  a  tremendous  success.  With  Cato  Addison  reached 
the  highest  point  of  his  fame  as  an  author  in  his  own  day, 
but  now  we  remember  him  much  more  as  a  writer  of 
delightful  essays,  and  as  the  creator  or  at  least  the  per- 
fecter  of  Sir  Roger,  for  to  Steel  is  due  the  first  inventior^ 
of  the  worthy  knight. 

Fortune  still  smiled  on  Addison.  When  George  i. 
came  to  the  throne,  the  Whigs  once  more  returned  to 
power,  and  Addison  again  became  Secretarj^  for  Ireland. 
He  still  wrote,  both  on  behalf  of  his  Government  and  to 
please  himself. 

And  now,  in  1716,  when  he  was  already  a  man  of  forty- 


478  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

four,  Addison  married.  His  wife  was  the  Dowager 
Countess  of  Warwick,  and  perhaps  she  was  that  great 
lady  whom  he  had  lost  a  few  years  before  when  he  lost  his 
post  of  Secretary  of  State.  Of  all  Addison's  pleasant 
prosperous  life  these  last  years  ought  to  have  been  the 
most  pleasant  and  most  prosperous.  But  it  has  been 
said  that  his  marriage  was  not  happy,  and  that  plain 
Mr.  Addison  was  glad  at  times  to  escape  from  the  stately 
grandeur  of  his  own  home  and  from  the  great  lady,  his 
wife,  to  drink  and  smoke  with  his  friends  and  "subjects" 
at  his  favorite  coffee-house.  For  Addison  held  sway 
and  was  surrounded  by  his  little  court  of  literary  admirers, 
as  Dryden  and  Ben  Jonson  before  him. 

But  whether  Addison  was  happy  in  his  married  life 
or  not,  one  sorrow  he  did  have.  Between  his  old  friend, 
Dick  Steele,  and  himself  a  coldness  grew  up.  They 
disagreed  over  politics.  Steele  thought  himself  ill-used 
by  his  party.  His  impatient,  impetuous  temper  was 
hurt  at  the  cool  balance  of  his  friend's,  and  so  they  quar- 
reled. "I  ask  no  favour  of  Mr.  Secretary  Addison," 
writes  Steele  angrily.  During  life  the  quarrel  was  never 
made  up,  but  after  Addison  died  Steele  spoke  of  his  friend 
in  his  old  generous  manner.  Under  his  new  honors 
and  labors  Addison's  health  soon  gave  way.  He  suffered 
much  from  asthma,  and  in  1718  gave  up  his  Government 
post.    A  little  more  than  a  j^ear  later  he  died. 

He  met  his  end  cheerfully  and  peacefully.  "See  how 
a  Christian  can  die,"  he  said  to  his  wild  stepson,  the  Earl 
of  Warwick,  who  came  to  say  farewell  to  his  stepfather. 

The  funeral  took  place  at  dead  of  night  in  Westminster 
Abbey.  Whig  and  Tory  alike  joined  in  mourning,  and 
as  the  torchlight  procession  wound  slowly  through  the  dim 
isles,  the  organ  played  and  the  choir  sang  a  funeral  hymn. 

"How  silent  did  his  old  companions  tread, 
By  midnight  lamps,  the  mansions  of  the  dead, 


THE  "SPECTATOR"  479 

Thro'   breathing   statues,   then   unheeded   things. 
Thro'  rows  of  warriors,  and  thro'  walks  of  Kings ! 
What  awe  did  the  slow  solemn  ki.ell  inspire. 
The  pealing  organ,  and  the  pausing  choir; 
The  duties  by  the  lawn-robed  prelate  paid. 
And  the  last  words,  that  dust  to  dust  conveyed ! 
While  speechless  o'er  thy  closing  grave  we  bend. 
Accept  these  tears,  thou  dear  departed  Friend !"  ^ 

So  our  great  essayist  was  laid  to  rest,  but  it  was  not 
until  many  years  had  come  and  gone  that  a  statue  in  his 
honor  was  placed  in  the  Poets'  Corner.  This,  says 
Lord  Macaulay,  himself  a  great  writer,  was  "a  mark  of 
national  respect  due  to  the  unsullied  statesman,  to  the 
accomplished  scholar,  to  the  master  of  pure  English 
eloquence,  to  the  consummate  painter  of  life  and  manners. 
It  was  due,  above  all,  to  the  gi-eat  satirist,  who  alone 
knew  how  to  use  ridicule  without  abusing  it,  who,  without 
inflicting  a  wound,  effected  a  great  social  reform,  and  who 
reconciled  wit  with  virtue,  after  a  long  and  disastrous 
separation,  during  which  wit  had  been  led  astray  by 
profligacy,  and  virtue  by  fanaticism." 


BOOKS  TO  READ 
Sir  Roger  de  Coverley.      The  Coverley  Paperg,  edited  by  O.  M.  Myers. 

»T.  Tickell. 


CHAPTER  LXVI 

STEELE— THE  SOLDIER  AUTHOR 

You  have  heard  a  httle  about  Dick  Steele  in  connection 
with  Joseph  Addison.  Steele  is  always  overshadowed 
by  his  great  friend,  for  whom  he  had  such  a  generous 
admiration  that  he  was  glad  to  be  so  overshadowed. 
But  in  this  chapter  I  mean  to  tell  you  a  little  more  about 
him. 

He  was  born,  you  know,  in  Dublin  in  1671,  and  early 
lost  his  father.  About  this  he  tells  us  himself  in  one  of 
the  Tatlers: 

"The  first  sense  of  sorrow  I  ever  knew  was  upon  the 
death  of  my  father,  at  which  time  I  was  not  quite  five 
years  of  age,  but  was  rather  amazed  at  what  all  the  house 
meant,  than  possessed  with  a  real  understanding,  why 
nobody  was  willing  to  play  with  me.  I  remember  I  went 
into  the  room  where  his  body  lay,  and  my  mother  sat 
weeping  alone  by  it.  I  had  my  battledore  in  my  hand, 
and  fell  abeating  the  coffin,  and  calling  'Papa,'  for,  I 
know  not  how,  I  had  some  slight  idea  that  he  was  locked 
up  there.  My  mother  catched  me  in  her  arms,  and, 
transported  beyond  all  patience  of  the  silent  grief  she 
was  before  in,  she  almost  smothered  me  in  her  embrace^ 
and  told  me,  in  a  flood  of  tears.  Papa  could  not  hear  me, 
and  would  play  with  me  no  more,  for  they  were  going 
to  put  him  under  ground,  whence  he  could  never  come 
to  us  again."  ^ 

*  TatUr,  181. 
480 


THE  SOLDIER  AUTHOR  481 

Steele's  sad,  beautiful  mother  died  soon  after  her 
husband,  and  little  Dick  was  left  more  lonely  than  ever. 
His  uncle  took  charge  of  him,  and  sent  him  to  Charter- 
house, where  he  met  Addison.  From  there  he  went  to 
Oxford,  but  left  without  taking  a  degree.  "A  drum 
passing  by,"  he  says,  "being  a  lover  of  music,  I  listed 
myself  for  a  soldier."  ^  "He  mounted  a  war  horse,  with 
a  great  sword  in  his  hand,  and  planted  himself  behind 
King  William  the  Third  against  Lewis  the  Fourteenth." 
But  he  says  when  he  cocked  his  hat,  and  put  on  a  broad 
sword,  jack  boots,  and  shoulder  belt,  he  did  not  know 
his  own  powers  as  a  writer,  he  did  not  know  then  that 
he  should  ever  be  able  to  "demolish  a  fortified  town 
with  a  goosequill."  ^  So  Steele  became  a  "wretched  common 
trooper,"  or,  to  put  it  more  politely,  a  gentleman  volunteer. 
But  he  was  not  long  in  becoming  an  ensign,  and  about 
five  years  later  he  got  his  commission  as  captain. 

In  those  days  the  life  of  a  soldier  was  wild  and  rough. 
Drinking  and  swearing  were  perhaps  the  least  among  the 
follies  and  wickedness  they  were  given  to,  and  Dick 
Steele  was  as  ready  as  any  other  to  join  in  all  the  wildness 
going.  But  in  spite  of  his  faults  and  failings  his  heart 
was  kind  and  tender.  He  had  no  love  of  wickedness 
though  he  could  not  resist  temptation.  So  the  dashing 
soldier  astonished  his  companions  by  publishing  a  little 
book  called  the  Clmstian  Hero.  It  was  a  little  book 
written  to  show  that  no  man  could  be  truly  great  who  was 
not  religious.  He  wrote  it  at  odd  minutes  when  his  day's 
work  was  over,  when  his  mind  had  time  "in  the  silent 
watch  of  the  night  to  run  over  the  busy  dream  of  the  day." 
He  wrote  it  at  first  for  his  own  use,  "to  make  him  ashamed 
of  understanding  and  seeming  to  feel  what  was  virtuous 
and  yet  living  so  quite  contrary  a  life."  Afterwards  he 
resolved  to  publish  it  for  the  good  of  others. 

*  Tatler,  89.  '  Theatre,  11. 


482  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

But  among  Steele's  gay  companions  the  book  had  little 
effect  exce^ot  to  make  them  laugh  at  him  and  draw  com- 
parisons between  the  lightness  of  his  words  and  actions, 
and  the  seriousness  of  the  ideas  set  forth  in  his  Christian 
Hero.  He  found  himself  slighted  instead  of  encouraged, 
and  "from  being  thought  no  undelightful  companion,  was 
soon  reckoned  a  disagreeable  fellow."  ^  So  he  took  to 
writing  plaj'-s,  for  "nothing  can  make  the  town  so  fond  of  a 
man  as  a  successful  play." 

The  plays  of  the  Restoration  had  been  very  coarse. 
Those  of  Steele  show  the  beginning  of  a  taste  for  better 
things,  "Tho'  full  of  incidents  that  move  laughter,  virtue 
and  vice  appear  just  as  thej^  ought  to  do,"  he  says  of  his 
first  comedy.  But  although  we  may  still  find  Steele's 
plays  rather  amusing,  it  is  not  as  a  dramatist  that  we 
remember  him,  but  as  an  essayist. 

Steele  led  a  happy-go-lucky  life,  nearly  always  cheerful 
and  in  debt.  His  plays  brought  him  in  some  money,  he 
received  a  Government  appointment  which  brought  him 
more,  and  when  he  was  about  thirty-three  he  married  a 
rich  widow.  Still  he  was  always  in  debt,  always  in  want 
of  money. 

In  about  a  year  Steele's  wife  died,  and  he  was  shortly 
married  to  another  well-off  lady.  About  this  time  he  left 
the  army,  it  is  thought,  although  we  do  not  know  quite 
surely,  and  for  long  afterwards  he  was  called  Captain 
Steele. 

Steele  wrote  a  great  many  letters  to  his  second  wife, 
both  before  and  after  his  marriage.  She  kept  them  all, 
and  from  them  we  can  learn  a  good  deal  of  this  warm- 
hearted, weak-willed,  harum-scarum  husband.  She  is  "Dear- 
est Creature,"  "Dear  Wife,"  "Dear  Prue"  (her  name, 
by  the  way,  was  Mary) ,  and  sometimes  "Ruler,"  "Absolute 
Governess,"   and  he   "Your   devoted   obedient   Husband," 

^Apology  for  himself  and  his  Writings. 


THE  SOLDIER  AUTHOR  483 

*'Your  faithful,  tender  Husband."  ]Many  of  the  letters  are 
about  money  troubles.  We  gather  from  them  that  Dick 
Steele  loved  his  wife,  but  as  he  was  a  gay  and  careless 
spendthrift  and  she  was  a  proud  beauty,  a  "scornful 
lady,"  for  neither  of  them  was  life  always  easy. 

It  was  about  two  years  after  this  second  marriage 
that  Steele  suddenly  began  the  Tatler.  He  did  not  write 
under  his  own  name,  but  under  that  of  Isaac  BickerstafF, 
a  name  which  Swift  had  made  use  of  in  writing  one  of  his 
satires.  As  has  been  said,  the  genius  of  Steele  has  been 
overshadowed  by  that  of  Addison,  for  Steele  had  such  a 
whole-hearted  admiration  for  his  friend  that  he  was  ready 
to  give  him  all  the  praise.  And  yet  it  is  nearly  always  to 
Steele  that  we  owe  the  ideas  which  were  later  worked  out 
and  perfected  by  Addison. 

It  is  to  Steele,  too,  that  we  owe  the  first  pictures  of 
English  family  life.  It  has  been  said  that  he  "was  the  first 
of  our  writers  who  really  seemed  to  admire  and  respect 
women,"  ^  and  if  we  add  "after  the  Restoration"  we  come 
very  near  the  truth.  Steele  had  a  tender  heart  towards 
children  too,  and  in  more  than  one  paper  his  love  of  them 
shows  itself.  Indeed,  as  we  read  we  cannot  help  believing 
that  in  real  life  Captain  Dick  had  many  child-friends. 
Here  is  how  he  tells  of  a  visit  to  a  friend's  house : — 

"I  am,  as  it  were,  at  home  at  that  house,  and  every  mem- 
ber of  it  knows  me  for  their  well-wisher.  I  cannot  indeed 
express  the  pleasure  it  is,  to  be  met  by  the  children  with 
so  much  joy  as  I  am  when  I  go  thither.  The  boys  and  girls 
strive  who  shall  come  first,  when  they  think  it  is  I  that  am 
knocking  at  the  door.  And  that  child  which  loses  the  race 
tome,  runs  back  again  to  tell  the  father  it  is  JNIr.  BickerstafF. 

"This  day  I  was  led  in  by  a  pretty  girl,  that  we  all 
thought  must  have  forgot  me,  for  the  family  has  been  out 
of  town  these  two  years.     Her  knowing  me  again  was  a 

^  Thackeray. 


484  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

mighty  subject  with  us,  and  took  up  our  discourse  at  the 
first  entrance.  After  which  they  began  to  rally  me  upon 
a  thousand  little  stories  they  heard  in  the  country  about  my 
marriage  to  one  of  my  neighbor's  daughters.  Upon 
which  the  gentleman,  my  friend,  said,  'Nay,  if  Mr. 
Bickerstaff  marries  a  child  of  any  of  his  old  companions, 
I  hope  mine  shall  have  the  preference.  There's  Mistress 
Mary  is  now  sixteen,  and  would  make  him  as  fine  a  widow 
as  the  best  of  them.'  " 

After  dinner  the  mother  and  children  leave  the  two 
friends  together.  The  father  speaks  of  his  love  for  his 
wife,  and  his  fears  for  her  health. 

"  'Ah,  you  little  understand,  you  that  have  lived  a 
bachelor,  how  great  a  pleasure  there  is  in  being  really 
beloved.  Her  face  is  to  me  more  beautiful  than  when  I  first 
saw  it.  In  her  examination  of  her  household  affairs,  she 
shows  a  certain  fearfulness  to  find  a  fault,  which  makes 
her  servants  obey  her  like  children,  and  the  meanest  we 
have  has  an  ingenuous  shame  for  an  offence,  not  always 
to  be  seen  in  children  in  other  families.  I  speak  freely  to 
you,  my  old  friend.  Ever  since  her  sickness,  things  that 
gave  me  the  quickest  joy  before,  turn  now  to  a  certain 
anxiety.  As  the  children  play  in  the  next  room,  I  know 
the  poor  things  by  their  steps,  and  am  considering  what 
they  must  do,  should  they  lose  their  mother  in  their 
tender  years.  The  pleasure  I  used  to  take  in  telling  my 
boy  stories  of  the  battles,  and  asking  my  girl  questions 
about  the  disposal  of  her  baby,  and  the  gossiping  of  it,  is 
turned  into  inward  reflection  and  melancholy.'  The  poor 
gentleman  would  have  gone  on  much  longer  with  his  sad 
forebodings,  but  his  wife  returning,  and  seeing  by  his  grave 
face  what  he  had  been  talking  about,  said,  with  a  smile, 
'Mr.  Bickerstaff,  don't  believe  a  word  of  what  he  tells  you. 
I  shall  still  live  to  have  you  for  my  second,  as  I  have  often 
promised  you,  unless  he  takes  more  care  of  himself  than  he 


THE  SOLDIER  AUTHOR  485 

has  done  since  his  coming  to  town.  You  must  know,  he 
tells  me,  that  he  finds  London  is  a  much  more  healthy 
place  than  the  country,  for  he  sees  several  of  his  old  ac- 
quaintance and  school-fellows  are  here,  young  fellows 
with  fair,  full-bottomed  periwigs.  I  could  scarce  keep  him 
this  morning  from  going  out  open-breasted.'"  And  so 
they  sat  and  chatted  pleasantly  until,  "on  a  sudden,  we  were 
alarmed  with  the  noise  of  a  drum,  and  immediately  entered 
nw  little  godson  to  give  me  a  point  of  war.^  His  mother, 
between  laughing  and  chiding,  would  have  put  him  out  of 
the  room,  but  I  would  not  part  with  him  so.  I  found, 
upon  conversation  with  him,  though  he  was  a  little  noisy 
in  his  mirth,  that  the  child  had  excellent  parts,  and  was 
a  great  master  of  all  the  learning  on  the  other  side  of  eight 
years  old.  I  perceived  him  to  be  a  very  great  historian 
in  ^sop's  Fables;  but  he  frankly  declared  to  me  his  mind, 
that  he  did  not  delight  in  that  learning,  because  he  did 
not  believe  they  were  true.  For  which  reason  I  found 
he  had  very  much  turned  his  studies,  for  about  a  twelve- 
month past,  into  the  lives  and  adventures  of  Don  Bellianis 
of  Greece,  Guy  of  Warwick,  the  Seven  Champions,  and 
other  historians  of  that  age. 

"I  could  not  but  observe  the  satisfaction  the  father  took 
in  the  forwardness  of  his  son,  and  that  these  diversions 
might  turn  to  some  profit,  I  found  the  boy  had  made 
remarks  which  might  be  of  service  to  him  during  the  course 
of  his  whole  life.  He  would  tell  you  the  mismanagements 
of  John  Hickathrift,  find  fault  with  the  passionate  temper 
in  Bevis  of  Southampton,  and  loved  St.  George  for  being 
the  champion  of  England;  and  by  this  means  had  his 
thoughts  insensibly  moulded  into  the  notions  of  dis- 
cretion, virtue,  and  honour. 

"I  was  extolling  his  accomplishments,  when  the  mother 
told  me  that  the  little  girl  who  led  me  in  this  morning 

'  A  strain  of  war-like  music. 


486  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

was,  in  her  way,  a  better  scholar  than  he.  'Betty,'  says 
she,  'deals  chiefly  in  fairies  and  sprites,  and  sometimes, 
in  a  winter  night,  will  terrify  the  maids  with  her  accounts, 
till  they  are  afraid  to  go  up  to  bed.' 

"I  sat  with  them  till  it  was  very  late,  sometimes  in 
merry,  sometimes  in  serious  discourse,  with  this  particular 
pleasure  which  gives  the  only  true  relish  to  all  conversation, 
a  sense  that  every  one  of  us  liked  each  other.  I  went  home 
considering  the  different  conditions  of  a  married  life  and 
that  of  a  bachelor.  And  I  must  confess  it  struck  me  with 
a  secret  concern  to  reflect  that,  whenever  I  go  ofl*,  I  shall 
leave  no  traces  behind  me.  In  this  pensive  mood  I  re- 
turned to  my  family,  that  is  to  say,  to  my  maid,  mj^  dog, 
and  my  cat,  who  only  can  be  the  better  or  worse  for  what 
happens  to  me."  ^ 

You  will  be  sorry  to  know  that,  a  few  Tatlers  further 
on,  the  kind  mother  of  this  happy  family  dies.  But 
Steele  was  himself  so  much  touched  by  the  thought  of  all 
the  misery  he  was  bringing  upon  the  others  by  giving 
such  a  sad  ending  to  his  story,  that  he  could  not  go  on 
with  the  paper,  and  Addison  had  to  finish  it  for  him. 

The  Spectato7\  you  know,  succeeded  the  Tatler,  and 
it  was  while  writing  for  the  Sijectator  that  Steele  took 
seriously  to  politics.  He  became  a  member  of  Parliament 
and  wrote  hot  political  articles.  He  and  Swift  crossed 
swords  more  than  once,  and  from  being  friends  became 
enemies.  But  Steele's  temper  was  too  hot,  his  pen  too 
hasty.  The  Tories  were  in  power,  and  he  was  a  Whig, 
and  he  presently  found  himself  expelled  from  the  House  of 
Commons  for  "uttering  seditious  libels."  Shut  out  from 
politics,  Steele  turned  once  more  to  essay-writing,  and 
published,  one  after  the  other,  several  papers  of  the  same 
style  as  the  Spectator,  but  none  of  them  lived  long. 

Better  days,  however,  were  coming.    Queen  Anne  died, 

"■  Tatler,  96. 


THE  SOLDIER  AUTHOR  487 

and  King  George  became  king  in  1714!,  the  Whigs  returned 
to  power,  Steele  again  received  a  Government  post,  again 
he  sat  in  Parhament,  and  a  few  months  later  he  was 
knighted,  and  became  Sir  Richard  Steele.  We  cannot 
follow  him  through  all  his  projects,  adventures,  and 
writings.  He  was  made  one  of  the  commissioners  for  the 
forfeited  estates  of  the  Scottish  lords  who  had  taken  part 
in  the  '15,  and  upon  this  business  he  went  several  times  to 
Scotland.  The  first  time  he  went  was  in  the  autumn  of 
1717.  But  before  that  Lady  Steele  had  gone  to  Wales 
to  look  after  her  estates  there.  While  she  was  there 
Dick  wrote  many  letters  to  her,  some  of  which  are  full  of 
tenderness  for  his  children.  They  show  us  something  too 
of  the  happy-go-lucky  household  in  the  absence  of  the 
careful  mistress.     In  one  he  says: — 

"Your  son  at  the  present  writing  is  mighty  well 
employed  in  tumbling  on  the  floor  of  the  room,  and 
sweeping  the  sand  with  a  feather.  He  grows  a  most 
delightful  child,  and  very  full  of  play  and  spirit.  He  is  also 
a  very  great  scholar.  He  can  read  his  primer,  and  I  have 
brought  down  my  Virgil.  He  makes  most  shrewd  re- 
marks about  the  pictures.  We  are  very  intimate  friends 
and  play-fellows.  He  begins  to  be  very  ragged,  and  I 
hope  I  shall  be  pardoned  if  I  equip  him  with  new  clothes 
and  frocks."  Or  again: — "The  brats,  my  girls,  stand  on 
each  side  of  the  table,  and  JNIolly  says  what  I  am  writing 
now  is  about  her  new  coat.  Bess  is  with  me  till  she  has 
new  clothes.  JNIiss  JMoll  has  taken  upon  her  to  hold  the 
sand-box,^  and  is  so  impertinent  in  her  office  that  I  cannot 
write  more.  But  you  are  to  take  this  letter  as  from  your 
three  best  friends,  Besse,  Moll,  and  their  Father. 

"Moll  bids  me  let  you  know  that  she  fell  down  just  now 
and  did  not  hurt  herself." 

Soon  after  this  Steele  set  out  for  Scotland,  and  although 

'  In  those  days  there  was  no  Motting-paj^er,  and   sand  was  used  to  dry  the  ink. 


488  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  business  which  brought  him  could  not  have  been 
welcome  to  many  a  Scottish  gentleman,  he  himself  was  well 
received.  They  forgot  the  Whig  official  in  the  famous 
writer.  In  Edinburgh  he  was  feasted  and  feted.  "You 
cannot  imagine,"  wrote  Steele,  "the  civilities  and  honours 
I  had  done  me  there.  I  never  lay  better,  ate  or  drank 
better,  or  conversed  with  men  of  better  sense  than  there." 
Poets  and  authors  greeted  him  in  verse,  he  was  "Kind 
Richy  Spec,  the  friend  to  a'  distressed,"  "Dear  Spec,"  and 
many  stories  are  told  of  his  doings  among  these  new-found 
friends.  He  paid  several  later  visits  to  Scotland,  but 
about  a  year  after  his  return  from  this  first  short  visit 
Steele  had  a  great  sorrow.  His  wife  died.  "This  is  to  let 
you  know,"  he  writes  to  a  cousin,  "that  my  dear  and 
honoured  wife  departed  this  life  last  night." 

And  now  that  his  children  were  motherless,  Steele, 
when  he  was  away  from  them,  wrote  to  them,  always 
tender,  often  funny,  letters.  It  is  Betty,  the  eldest,  he 
addresses,  she  is  "Dear  Child,"  "]My  dear  Daughter,"  "My 
good  Girlie."  He  bids  them  be  good  and  grow  like  their 
mother.  "I  have  observed  that  your  sister,"  he  says  in  one 
letter,  "has  for  the  first  time  written  the  initial  or  first 
letters  of  her  name.  Tell  her  I  am  highly  delighted  to  see 
her  subscription  in  such  fair  letters.  And  how  many  fine 
things  those  two  letters  stand  for  when  she  writes  them. 
M.  S.  is  Milk  and  Sugar,  Mirth  and  Safety,  JNIusic  and 
Songs,  Meat  and  Sauce,  as  well  as  Molly  and  Spot,  and 
Mary  and  Steele."  I  think  the  children  must  have  loved 
their  kind  father  who  wrote  such  pretty  nonsense  to  them. 

So  with  ups  and  downs  the  years  passed.  However 
much  money  Steele  got  he  never  seemed  to  have  any,  and 
in  spite  of  all  his  carelessness  and  jovialness,  there  is 
something  sad  in  these  last  years  of  his  life.  He  quarreled 
with,  and  then  for  ever  lost  his  life-long  friend,  Joseph 
Addison.     His  two  sons  died,  and  at  length,  broken  in 


THE  SOLDIER  AUTHOR  489 

health,  troubled  about  money,  he  went  to  spend  his  last 
days  in  Carmarthen  in  Wales.  Here  we  have  a  last 
pleasant  picture  of  him  being  carried  out  on  a  summer's 
evening  to  watch  the  country  lads  and  lasses  dance.  And 
with  his  own  hand,  paralyzed  though  it  was,  he  would  write 
an  order  for  a  new  gown  to  be  given  to  the  best  dancer. 
And  here  in  Carmarthen,  in  1729,  he  died  and  was  buried 
in  the  Church  of  St.  Peter. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Essaj/s  of  Richard  Steele,  selected  and  edited  by  L.  E.  Steele.     Steele  Selec- 
tions from  the  Taller,  Spectator,  and  Guardian,  edited  by  Austin  Dobson. 


CHAPTER  LXVII 

POPE— THE  "RAPE  OF   THE  LOCK" 

As  you  have  already  guessed  by  the  number  of  prose 
writers  you  have  been  reading  about,  this  age,  the  age  of 
the  last  Stuarts  and  the  first  Georges,  was  not  a  poetic 
one.  It  was  an  age  of  art  and  posturing.  It  was  an  age 
of  fierce  and  passionate  party  strife — strife  between 
Whig  and  Tory  which  almost  amounted  to  civil  war, 
but  instead  of  using  swords  and  guns  the  men  who  took 
part  in  the  strife  used  pen  and  ink.  They  played  the  game 
without  any  rules  of  fair  play.  No  weapon  was  too  vile 
or  mean  to  be  used  if  by  it  the  enemy  might  be  injured. 

You  have  often  been  told  that  it  is  rude  to  make 
personal  remarks,  but  the  age  of  Anne  was  the  age  of 
personal  remarks,  and  they  were  not  considered  rude. 
The  more  cruel  and  pointed  they  were,  the  more  clever 
they  were  thought  to  be.  To  be  stupid  or  ugly  are  not 
sins.  They  ought  not  to  be  causes  of  scorn  and  laughter, 
but  in  the  age  of  Anne  they  were  accepted  as  such.  And 
if  the  enemy  was  worsted  in  the  fight  he  took  his  revenge 
by  holding  up  to  ridicule  the  person  of  his  victor.  To 
raise  the  unkind  laughter  of  the  world  against  an  enemy 
was  the  great  thing  to  be  aimed  at.  Added  to  this,  too, 
the  age  was  one  of  common  sense.  All  this  does  not  make 
for  poetry,  yet  in  this  age  there  was  one  poet,  who, 
although  he  does  not  rank  among  our  greatest  poets, 
was  still  great,  and  perhaps  had  he  lived  in  a  less  artificial 
age  he  might  have  been  greater  still. 

490 


THE  "RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK"  491 

This  poet  was  Alexander  Pope,  the  son  of  a  well-to-do 
Catholic  linen-draper.  He  was  born  in  London  in  1688, 
but  soon  afterwards  his  father  retired  from  business,  and 
went  to  live  in  a  little  village  not  far  from  Windsor. 

Alexander  was  an  only  son.  He  had  one  step-sister, 
but  she  was  a  good  many  years  older  than  he,  and  he 
seems  never  to  have  had  any  child  companions  or  real 
childhood.  He  must  always  have  been  delicate,  yet  as  a 
child  his  face  was  "round,  plump,  pretty,  and  of  a  fresh 
complexion."  ^  He  is  said,  too,  to  have  been  very  sweet 
tempered,  but  his  father  and  mother  spoilt  him  not  a 
little,  and  when  he  grew  up  he  lost  that  sweetness  of 
temper.  Yet,  unlike  many  spoilt  children,  Pope  never 
forgot  the  reverence  due  to  father  and  mother.  He 
repaid  their  love  with  love  as  warm,  and  in  their  old  age 
he  tended  and  cared  for  them  fondly. 

As  Pope  was  a  delicate  boy  he  got  little  regular  school- 
ing. He  learned  to  write  by  copying  the  printed  letters  in 
books,  and  was  first  taught  to  read  by  an  aunt,  and  later  by 
a  priest,  but  still  at  home.  After  a  time  he  was  at  school  for 
a  few  years,  but  he  went  from  one  school  to  another,  never 
staying  long  at  any,  and  so  never  learning  much.  He 
says  indeed  that  he  unlearned  at  two  of  his  schools  all 
that  he  had  learned  at  another.  By  the  time  he  was 
twelve  he  was  once  more  at  home  reading  what  he  liked 
and  learning  what  he  liked,  and  he  read  and  studied  so 
greedily  that  he  made  himself  ill. 

Pope  loved  the  stories  of  the  Greek  and  Roman 
heroes,  but  he  did  not  care  for  the  hard  work  needed  to 
learn  to  read  them  in  the  original  with  ease,  and  contented 
himself  with  translations.  He  was  so  fond  of  these 
stories  that  while  still  a  little  boy  he  made  a  play  from 
the  Iliad  which  was  acted  by  the  boys  of  one  of  his 
schools. 

^  S'pcnce,  Anecdotes. 


492  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Very  early  Pope  began  to  write  poetry.  He  read  a 
great  deal,  and  two  of  his  favorite  poets  were  Spenser 
and  Dryden.  His  great  idea  was  to  become  a  poet 
also,  and  in  this  his  father  encouraged  him.  Although 
no  poet  himself  he  would  set  his  little  son  to  make  verses 
upon  different  subjects.  "He  was  pretty  difficult  in 
being  pleased,"  says  Pope's  mother,  "and  used  often  to 
send  him  back  to  new  turn  them;  'These  are  not  good 
rhymes,'  he  would  say." 

There  is  a  story  told  that  Pope  admired  Dryden's 
poetry  so  much  that  he  persuaded  a  friend  to  take  him 
one  day  to  London,  to  the  coffee-house  where  Dryden 
used  to  hold  his  little  court.  There  he  saw  the  great 
man,  who  spoke  to  him  and  gave  him  a  shilling  for  some 
verses  he  v/rote.  But  the  story  is  a  very  doubtful  one, 
as  Dryden  died  when  Pope  was  twelve  years  old,  and 
for  some  time  before  that  he  had  been  too  ill  to  go  to 
coffee-houses.  But  that  Pope's  admiration  for  Dryden 
was  very  sincere  and  very  great  we  know,  for  he  chose 
him  as  his  model.  Like  Dryden,  Pope  wrote  in  the  heroic 
couplet,  and  in  his  hands  it  became  much  more  neat  and 
polished  than  ever  it  did  in  the  hands  of  the  older  poet. 

Pope  saw  Dryden  only  once,  even  if  the  story  is  true; 
but  with  another  old  poet,  a  dramatist,  he  struck  up  a 
great  friendship.  This  poet  was  named  Wycherley,  but 
by  the  time  that  Pope  came  to  know  him  Wycherley  had 
grown  old  and  feeble,  all  his  best  work  was  done,  and 
people  were  perhaps  beginning  to  forget  him.  So  he  was 
pleased  with  the  admiration  of  the  boy  poet  fifty  years 
younger  than  himself,  and  glad  to  accept  his  help.  At 
first  this  flattered  Pope's  vanity,  but  after  a  little  he 
quarreled  with  his  old  friend  and  left  him.  This  was  the 
first  of  Pope's  literary  quarrels,  of  which  he  had  many. 

Akeady,  as  a  boy,  Pope  was  becoming  known.  He 
had  published  a  few  short  poems,  and  others  were  handed 


THE  "RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK"  493 

about  in  manuscript  among  his  friends.  "That  young 
fellow  will  either  be  a  madman  or  make  a  very  great  poet,"  ^ 
said  one  man  after  meeting  him  when  he  was  about  four- 
teen. All  the  praise  and  attention  which  Pope  received 
pleased  him  much.  But  he  took  it  only  as  his  due,  and  his 
great  ambition  was  to  make  people  believe  that  he  had 
been  a  w^onderfully  clever  child,  and  that  he  had  begun 
to  write  when  he  was  very  young.  He  says  of  himself 
with  something  of  pompousness,  "I  lisp'd  in  numbers, 
for  the  numbers  came." 

Pope's  keenest  desire  was  to  be  a  poet,  and  few  poets 
have  rushed  so  quickly  into  fame.  He  received  few  of  the 
buffets  which  young  authors  have  as  a  rule  to  bear. 
Instead,  many  a  kindly  helping  hand  was  stretched  out 
to  him  by  the  great  men  of  the  day,  for  there  was  much 
in  this  young  genius  to  draw  out  the  pity  of  others.  He 
was  fragile  and  sickly.  As  a  full  grown  man  he  stood 
only  four  feet  six  inches  high.  His  body  was  bent  and 
deformed,  and  so  frail  that  he  had  to  be  strapped  in  canvas 
to  give  him  some  support.  His  fine  face  was  lined  by  pain, 
for  he  suffered  from  racking  headaches,  and  indeed  his 
life  was  one  long  disease.  Yet  in  spite  of  constant  pain 
this  little  crooked  boy,  with  his  "little,  tender,  crazy 
carcass,"  as  Wycherley  called  it,  wrote  the  most  astonishing 
poetry  in  a  style  which  in  his  own  day  was  considered  the 
finest  that  could  be  written. 

It  is  not  surprising  then  that  his  poems  were  greeted 
with  kindly  wonder,  mixed  it  may  be  with  a  little  envy. 
Unhappily  Pope  saw  only  the  envy  and  overlooked  the 
kindliness.  Perhaps  it  was  that  his  crooked  little  body 
had  warped  the  great  mind  it  held,  but  certain  it  is,  as 
Pope  grew  to  manhood  his  thirst  for  praise  and  glory 
increased,  and  with  it  his  distrust  and  envy  of  others. 
And  many  of  the  ways  he  took  to  add  to  his  own  fame, 

^  Edmund  Smith. 


494  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

and  take  away  from  that  of  others,  were  mean  and  tortuous 
to  the  last  degree.  Deceit  and  crooked  ways  seemed 
necessary  to  him.  It  has  been  said  that  he  hardly  drank 
tea  without  a  stratagem,  and  that  he  played  the  politician 
about  cabbages  and  turnips.^ 

He  begged  his  own  letters  back  from  the  friends  to 
whom  they  were  written.  He  altered  them,  changed 
the  dates,  and  published  them.  Then  he  raised  a  gi'eat 
outcry  pretending  that  they  had  been  stolen  from  him 
and  published  without  his  knowledge.  Such  ways  led 
to  quarrels  and  strife  while  he  was  alive,  and  since  his 
death  they  have  puzzled  every  one  who  has  tried  to  write 
about  him.  All  his  life  through  he  was  hardly  ever  with- 
out a  literary  quarrel  of  some  sort,  some  of  his  poems 
indeed  being  called  forth  merely  by  these  quarrels. 

But  though  many  of  Pope's  poems  led  to  quarrels, 
and  some  were  written  with  the  desire  to  provoke  them, 
one  of  his  most  famous  poems  was,  on  the  other  hand, 
written  to  bring  peace  between  two  angry  families.  This 
poem  is  called  the  Rape  of  the  Lock — rape  meaning 
theft,  and  the  lock  not  the  lock  of  a  door,  but  a  lock  of 
hair. 

A  gay  young  lord  had  stolen  a  lock  of  a  beautiful 
young  ladj^'s  hair,  and  she  was  so  angry  about  it  that 
there  was  a  coolness  between  the  two  families.  A  friend 
then  came  to  Pope  to  ask  him  if  he  could  not  do  something 
to  appease  the  angry  lady.  So  Pope  took  up  his  pen  and 
wrote  a  mock-heroic  poem  making  friendly  fun  of  the 
whole  matter.  But  although  Pope's  intention  was  kindly 
his  success  was  not  complete.  The  families  did  not 
entirely  see  the  joke,  and  Pope  writes  to  a  friend,  "The 
celebrated  lady  herself  is  offended,  and,  what  is  stranger, 
not  at  herself,  but  me." 

But  the  poem  remains  one  of  the  most  delightful  of 

*  Lady  Bolingbroke. 


THE  "RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK"  495 

airy  trifles  in  our  language.  And  that  it  should  be  so 
airy  is  a  triumph  of  Pope's  genius,  for  it  is  written  in  the 
heroic  couplet,  one  of  the  most  mechanical  forms  of  English 
verse. 

Addison  called  it  "a  delicious  little  thing"  and  the 
very  salt  of  wit. 

Another  and  later  writer  says  of  it — "It  is  the  most 
exquisite  specimen  of  filigree  work  ever  invented.  It  is 
made  of  gauze  and  silver  spangles.  .  .  .  Airs,  languid  airs, 
breathe  around,  the  atmosj^here  is  perfumed  with  affecta- 
tion. A  toilet  is  described  with  the  solemnity  of  an  altar 
raised  to  the  goddess  of  vanity,  and  the  history  of  a  silver 
bodkin  is  given  with  all  the  pomp  of  heraldry.  No  pains 
are  spared,  no  profusion  of  ornament,  no  splendour  of 
poetic  diction  to  set  off  the  meanest  things.  ...  It  is 
the  perfection  of  the  mock-heroic."  ^ 

Pope  begins  the  poem  by  describing  Belinda,  the 
heroine,  awaking  from  sleep.  He  tells  how  her  guardian 
sylph  brings  a  morning  dream  to  warn  her  of  coming 
danger.  In  the  dream  she  is  told  that  all  around  her 
unnumbered  fairy  spirits  fly  guarding  her  from  evil — 

"Of  these  am  I,  who  thy  protection  claim, 
A  watchful  sprite,  and  Ariel  is  my  name. 
Late,  as  I  ranged  the  crystal  wilds  of  air. 
In  the  clear  mirror  of  thy  ruling  star 
I  saw,  alas !  some  dread  event  impend. 
Ere  to  the  main  this  morning  sun  descend. 
But  heaven  reveals  not  what,  or  how,  or  where: 
Warned  by  the  sylph,  oh  pious  maid,  beware ! 
This  to  disclose  is  all  tliy  guardian  can : 
Beware  of  all,  but  most  beware  of  Man!" 

Then  Shock,  Belinda's  dog, 

"Who  thought  she  slept  too  long. 
Leaped  up,  and  waked  his  mistress  with  his  tongue." 

» Hazlitt, 


496  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

So  Belinda  rises  and  is  dressed.     While  her  maid  seems 
to  do  the  work, 

"The  busy  sylphs  surround  their  darling  care, 
These  set  the  head,  and  those  divide  the  hair, 
Some  fold  the  sleeve,  whilst  others  plait  the  gown ; 
And  Betty's  praised  for  labours  not  her  own." 

Next  Belinda  set  out  upon  the  Thames  to  go  by  boat 
to  Hampton  Court,  and  as  she  sat  in  her  gayly  decorated 
boat  she  looked  so  beautiful  that  every  eye  was  turned 
to  gaze  upon  her — 

"On  her  white  breast  a  sparkling  cross  she  v/ore. 
Which  Jews  might  kiss,  and  infidels  adore," 

She  was   so  beautiful  and  graceful  that  it  seemed  as  if 
she  could  have  no  faults,  or — 

"If  to  her  share  some  female  errors  fall. 
Look  in  her  face,  and  you'll  forget  them  all. 
This  nymph,  to  the  destruction  of  mankind. 
Nourished  two  locks,  which  graceful  hung  behind 
In  equal  curls,  and  well  conspired  to  deck. 
With  shining  ringlets,  the  smoothe  iv'ry  neck. 
Love  in  these  labyrinths  his  slaves  detains. 
And  mighty  hearts  are  held  in  slender  chains. 
With  hairy  springes  we  the  birds  betray. 
Slight  lines  of  hair  surprise  the  finny  prey. 
Fair  tresses  man's  imperial  race  insnare. 
And  beauty  draws  us  with  a  single  hair." 

The  "Adventurous  Baron"  next  appears  upon  the 
scene.  He,  gi'eatly  admiring  Belinda's  shining  locks, 
longs  to  possess  one,  and  makes  up  his  mind  that  he  will. 
And,  as  the  painted  vessel  glided  down  the  Thames, 
Belinda  smiled,  and  all  the  world  was  gay,  only  Ariel  alone 
was  sad  and  disturbed,  for  he  felt  some  evil,  he  knew  not 
what,  was  hanging  over  his  mistress.  So  he  gathered 
all  his  company  and  bade  them  watch  more  warily  than 


THE  "RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK"  497 

before  over  their  charge.  Some  must  guard  the  watch, 
some  the  fan,  "And  thou  Crispissa,  tend  her  fav'rite  lock," 
he  says.  And  woe  betide  that  sprite  who  shall  be  careless 
or  neglectful! 

"Whatever  spirit,  careless  of  his  charge, 
His  post  neglects,  or  leaves  the  fair  at  large. 
Shall  feel  sharp  vengeance  soon  o'ertake  his  sins. 
Be  stopped  in  vials,  or  transfixed  with  pins. 
Or  plunged  in  lakes  of  bitter  washes  lie. 
Or  wedged,  whole  ages  in  a  bodkin's  eye." 

So  the  watchful  sprites  flew  off  to  their  places — 

"Some,  orb  in  orb,  around  the  nymph  extend; 
Some  thrid  ^  the  mazy  ringlets  of  her  hair. 
Some  hang  upon  the  pendants  of  her  ear." 

The  day  went  on,  Belinda  sat  down  to  play  cards. 
After  the  game  coffee  was  brought,  and  "while  frequent 
cups  prolong  the  rich  repast,"  Belinda  unthinkingly  gave 
the  Baron  a  pair  of  scissors.  Then  indeed  the  hour  of 
fate  struck.  The  Baron  standing  behind  Belinda  found 
the  temptation  too  great.  He  opened  the  scissors  and 
drew  near — 

"Swift  to  the  lock  a  thousand  sprites  repair, 
A  thousand  wings  by  turns  blow  back  the  hair; 
And  thrice  they  twitched  the  diamond  in  her  ear ; 
Thrice  she  looked  back,  and  thrice  the  foe  drew  near." 

But  at  last  "the  fatal  engine"  closed  upon  the  lock. 
Even  to  the  last,  one  wretched  sylph  struggling  to  save 
the  lock  clung  to  it.  It  was  in  vain,  "Fate  urged  the 
shears,  and  cut  the  sylph  in  twain."  Then,  while  Belinda 
cried  aloud  in  anger,  the  Baron  shouted  in  triumph  and 
rejoiced  over  his  spoil. 

The  poem  goes  on  to  tell  how  Umbriel,  a  dusky  melan- 
choly sprite,  in  order  to  make  the  quarrel  worse,  flew  off 

'  Slipped   through. 


498  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

to  the  witch  Spleen,  and  returned  with  a  bag  full  of  "sighs, 
sobs,  and  passions,  and  the  war  of  tongues,"  "soft  sorrows, 
melting  griefs,  and  flowing  tears,"  and  emptied  it  over 
Belinda's  head.     She — 

"Then  raging  to  Sir  Plume  repairs. 
And  bids  her  beau  demand  the  precious  hairs. 
Sir  Plume,  of  amber  snuif-box  justly  vain, 
And  the  nice  conduct  of  a  clouded  cane. 
With  earnest  eyes,  and  round  unthinking  face. 
He  first  the  snuff-box  opened,  then  the  case." 

Sir  Plume,  not  famous  for  brains,  put  on  a  very  bold, 
determined  air,  and  fiercely  attacked  the  Baron — "My 
Lord,"  he  cried,  "why,  what!  you  must  return  the  lock! 
You  must  be  civil.  Plague  on  't!  'tis  past  a  jest — nay 
prithee,  give  her  the  hair."  And  as  he  spoke  he  tapped 
his  snufl'-box  daintily. 

But  in  spite  of  this  valiant  champion  of  fair  ladies  in 
distress,  the  Baron  would  not  return  the  lock.  So  a 
deadly  battle  followed  in  which  the  ladies  fought  against 
the  gentlemen,  and  in  which  the  sprites  also  took  part. 
The  weapons  were  only  frowns  and  angry  glances — 

"A  beau  and  witling  perished  in  the  throng. 
One  died  in  metaphor,  and  one  in  song. 

A  mournful  glance  Sir  Fopling  upwards  cast, 
'Those  eyes  were  made  so  killing,'  was  his  last." 

Belinda,  however,  at  length  disarmed  the  Baron  with 
a  pinch  of  snuff,  and  threatened  his  life  with  a  hair  pin. 
And  so  the  battle  ends.    But  alas! — 

"The  lock,  obtained  with  guilt  and  kept  with  pain. 
In  ev'ry  place  is  sought,  but  sought  in  vain." 

During  the  fight  it  has  been  caught  up  to  the  skies — 

"A  sudden  star,  it  shot  through  liquid  air, 
And  drew  behind  a  radiant  trail  of  hair." 


THE  "RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK"  499 

Thus,  says  the  poet,  Behnda  has  no  longer  need  to 
mourn  her  lost  lock,  for  it  will  be  famous  to  the  end  of 
time  as  a  bright  star  among  the  stars — 

"Then  cease,  bright  nymph !  to  mourn  thy  ravished  hair. 
Which  adds  new  glory  to  the  starry  sphere ! 
Not  all  the  tresses  that  fair  head  can  boast, 
Shall  draw  such  envy  as  the  lock  you  lost. 
For  after  all  the  murders  of  your  eye, 
When,  after  millions  slain,  yourself  shall  die; 
When  those  fair  suns  shall  set,  as  set  they  must. 
And  all  those  tresses  shall  be  laid  in  dust. 
This  lock  the  Muse  shall  consecrate  to  fame. 
And  midst  the  stars  inscribe  Belinda's  name." 

When  Pope  first  published  this  poem  there  was  nothing 
about  fairies  in  it.  Afterwards  he  thought  of  the  fairies, 
but  Addison  advised  him  not  to  alter  the  poem,  as  it  was 
so  delightful  as  it  was.  Pope,  however,  did  not  take  the 
advice,  but  added  the  fairy  part,  thereby  greatly  improving 
the  poem.  This  caused  a  quarrel  with  Addison,  for  Pope 
thought  he  had  given  him  bad  advice  through  jealousy. 
A  little  later  this  quarrel  was  made  much  worse.  Pope 
translated  and  published  a  version  of  the  Iliad,  and  at  the 
same  time  a  friend  of  Addison  did  so  too.  This  made 
Pope  bitterly  angry,  for  he  believed  that  the  translation 
was  Addison's  own  and  that  he  had  published  it  to  injure 
the  sale  of  his.  From  this  you  see  how  easily  Pope's 
anger  and  jealousy  were  aroused,  and  will  not  wonder  that 
his  life  was  a  long  record  of  quarrels. 

Pope  need  not  have  been  jealous  of  Addison's  friend, 
for  his  own  translation  of  Homer  was  a  great  success,  and 
people  soon  forgot  the  other.  He  translated  not  only  the 
Iliad,  but  with  the  help  of  two  lesser  poets  the  Odyssey  also. 
Both  poems  were  done  in  the  fashionable  heroic  couplet, 
and  Pope  made  so  much  money  by  them  that  he  was  able 
to  live  in  comfort  ever  after.     And  it  is  interesting  to 


500  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

remember  that  Pope  was  the  first  poet  who  was  able  to 
live  in  comfort  entirely  on  what  he  made  by  his  writing. 

Poj^e  now  took  a  house  at  Twickenham,  and  there  he 
spent  many  happy  hours  planning  and  laying  out  his 
garden,  and  building  a  grotto  with  shells  and  stones 
and  bits  of  looking-glass.  The  house  has  long  ago  been 
pulled  down  and  the  garden  altered,  but  the  grotto  still 
remains,  a  sight  for  the  curious. 

It  has  been  said  that  to  write  in  the  heroic  couplet 
"is  an  art  as  mechanical  as  that  of  mending  a  kettle  or 
shoeing  a  horse,  and  may  be  learned  by  any  human  being 
who  has  sense  enough  to  learn  anything."  ^  And  although 
this  is  not  all  true,  it  is  so  far  true  that  it  is  almost  impos- 
sible to  tell  which  books  of  the  Odyssey  were  written  by 
Pope,  and  which  by  the  men  who  helped  him.  But,  taken 
as  a  whole,  the  Odyssey  is  not  so  good  as  the  Iliad. 
Scholars  tell  us  that  in  neither  the  one  nor  the  other  is 
the  feeling  of  the  original  poetry  kept.  Pope  did  not 
know  enough  Greek  to  enter  into  the  spirit  of  it,  and  he 
worked  mostly  from  translations.  Even  had  he  been 
able  to  enter  into  the  true  spirit  he  would  have  found  it 
hard  to  keep  that  spirit  in  his  translation,  using  as  he 
did  the  artificial  heroic  couplet.  For  Homer's  poetry 
is  not  artificial,  but  simple  and  natural  like  our  own  early 
poetry.  "A  pretty  poem,  ]Mr.  Pope,  but  you  must  not  call 
it  Homer,"  said  a  friend^  when  he  read  it,  and  his  judg- 
ment is  still  for  the  most  part  the  judgment  of  to-day. 

It  was  after  he  had  finished  the  Odyssey  that  Pope 
wrote  his  most  famous  satire,  called  the  Dunciad.  In 
this  he  insulted  and  held  up  to  ridicule  all  stupid  or  dull 
authors,  all  dunces,  and  all  those  whom  he  considered 
his  enemies.  It  is  very  clever,  but  a  poem  full  of  malice 
and  hatred  does  not  make  very  pleasant  reading.  For 
most  of  us,  too,  the  interest  it  had  has  vanished,  as  many 

^  Macaulay.  '  Bentlej^. 


THE  "RAPE  OF  THE  LOCK"  501 

of  the  people  at  whom  Pope  levied  his  malice  are  forgotten, 
or  only  remembered  because  he  made  them  famous  by 
adding  their  names  to  his  roll  of  dunces.  But  in  Pope's 
own  day  the  Dunciad  called  forth  cries  of  anger  and 
revenge  from  the  victims,  and  involved  the  author  in  still 
more  quarrels. 

Pope  wrote  many  more  poems,  the  chief  being  the  Essay 
on  Criticism  and  the  Essay  on  Man.  But  his  translations 
of  Homer  and  the  Bape  of  the  Lock  are  those  j^ou  will 
like  best  in  the  meantime.  As  a  whole  Pope  is  perhaps 
not  much  read  now,  yet  many  of  his  lines  have  become 
household  words,  and  when  you  come  to  read  him  you 
will  be  surprised  to  find  how  many  familiar  quotations 
are  taken  from  his  poems.  Perhaps  no  one  of  our  poets 
except  Shakespeare  is  more  quoted.  And  yet  he  seldom 
says  anything  which  touches  the  heart.  When  we  enjoy 
his  poetry  we  enjoy  it  with  the  brain.  It  gives  us  pleasure 
rather  as  the  glitter  of  a  diamond  than  as  the  perfume 
of  a  rose. 

In  spite  of  his  crooked,  sickly  little  body  Pope  lived 
to  be  fifty-six,  and  one  evening  in  May  1744  he  died 
peacefully  in  his  home  at  Twickenham,  and  was  buried 
in  the  church  there,  near  the  monument  which  he  had  put 
up  to  the  memory  of  his  father  and  mother. 

There  is  so  much  that  is  disagreeable  and  mean  in 
Pope  that  we  are  apt  to  lose  sight  of  what  was  good  in 
him  altogether.  We  have  to  remind  ourselves  that  he 
was  a  good  and  affectionate  son,  and  that  he  was  loving 
to  the  friends  with  whom  he  did  not  quarrel.  Yet  these 
can  hardly  be  counted  as  great  merits.  Perhaps  his 
greatest  merit  is  that  he  kept  his  independence  in  an  age 
when  writers  fawned  upon  patrons  or  accepted  bribes 
from  Whig  or  Tory.  Pope  held  on  his  own  way,  looking 
for  favors  neither  from  one  side  nor  from  the  other. 
And  when  we  think  of  his   frail  little   body,  this  sturdy 


502  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

independence  of  mind  is  all  the  more  wonderful.  From 
Pope  we  date  the  beginning  of  the  time  when  a  writer 
could  live  honorably  by  his  pen,  and  had  no  need  to 
flatter  a  patron,  or  sell  his  genius  to  politics  or  party. 
But  Pope  stood  alone  in  this  independence,  and  he  never 
had  to  fight  for  it.  A  happy  chance,  we  might  say, 
made  him  free.  For  while  his  brother  writers  all  around 
him  were  still  held  in  the  chains  of  patronage,  Pope  having 
more  monej^  than  some  did  not  need  to  bow  to  it,  and 
having  less  greed  than  others  did  not  choose  to  bow  to 
it,  in  order  to  add  to  his  wealth.  And  in  the  following 
chapter  we  come  to  another  man  who  in  the  next  genera- 
tion fought  for  freedom,  won  it,  and  thereby  helped  to 
free  others.  This  man  was  the  famous  Dr.  Samuel 
Johnson.  — 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Pope's  Iliad,  edited  by  A.  J.  Church.     Pope's  Odyssey,  edited  by  A.  J.  Church. 

Note. — As  an  introduction  to  Pope's  Homer  the  following  books  may  be 
read: — 

Stories  from  the  Iliad,  by  Jeannie  Lang.  Stories  from  the  Odyssey,  by  Jeannie 
Lang.  The  Children's  Iliad,  by  A.  J.  Church.  2'he  Children's  Odyssey,  by  A,  J. 
Church. 


CHAPTER  LXVIII 

JOHNSON— DAYS  OF  STRUGGLE 

Samuel  Johnson  was  the  son  of  a  country  bookseller, 
and  he  was  born  at  Lichfield  in  1709.  He  was  a  big, 
strong  boy,  but  he  suffered  from  a  dreadful  disease 
known  then  as  the  King's  Evil.  It  left  scars  upon  his 
good-looking  face,  and  nearly  robbed  him  of  his  eyesight. 
In  those  days  people  still  believed  that  this  dreadful 
disease  would  be  cured  if  the  person  suffering  from  it 
was  touched  by  a  royal  hand.  So  when  he  was  two, 
little  Samuel  was  taken  to  London  by  his  father  and 
mother,  and  there  he  was  "touched"  by  Queen  Anne. 
Samuel  had  a  wonderful  memorj^,  and  although  he  had 
been  so  young  at  the  time,  all  his  life  after  he  kept  a  kind  of 
awed  remembrance  of  a  stately  lady  who  wore  a  long 
black  hood  and  sparkling  diamonds.  The  touch  of  the 
Queen's  soft  white  hand  did  the  poor  little  sick  child  no 
good,  and  it  is  quaint  to  remember  that  the  great  learned 
doctor  thought  it  might  be  because  he  had  been  touched 
by  the  wrong  royal  hand.  He  might  have  been  cured 
perhaps  had  he  been  taken  to  Rome  and  touched  by  the 
hand  of  a  Stuart.  For  Johnson  was  a  Tory,  and  all  his 
life  he  remained  at  heart  a  Jacobite. 

At  school  Samuel  learaed  easily  and  read  greedily 
all  kinds  of  books.  He  loved  poetry  most,  and  read 
Shakespeare  when  he  was  so  young  that  he  was  frightened 
at  finding  himself  alone  while  reading  about  the  ghost  in 
Hamlet.      Yet   he    was    idle   at    his    tasks    and    had    not 

£03 


504  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

altogether  an  easy  time,  for  when  asked  long  years  after 
how  he  became  such  a  splendid  Latin  scholar,  he  replied, 
"My  master  whipt  me  very  well,  without  that,  sir,  I  should 
have  done  nothing." 

Samuel  learned  so  easily  that,  though  he  was  idle, 
he  knew  more  than  any  of  the  other  boys.  He  ruled 
them  too.  Three  of  them  used  to  come  every  morning 
to  carry  their  stout  comrade  to  school.  Johnson  mounted 
on  the  back  of  one,  and  the  other  two  supported  him, 
one  on  each  side.  In  winter  when  he  was  too  lazy  to  skate 
or  slide  himself  they  pulled  him  about  on  the  ice  by  a 
garter  tied  round  his  waist.  Thus  early  did  Johnson  show 
his  power  over  his  fellows. 

At  sixteen  Samuel  left  school,  and  for  two  years  idled 
about  his  father's  shop,  reading  everything  that  came  in 
his  way.  He  devoured  books.  He  did  not  read  them 
carefully,  but  quickly,  tearing  the  heart  out  of  them. 
He  cared  for  nothing  else  but  reading,  and  once  when  his 
father  was  ill  and  unable  to  attend  to  his  bookstall,  he 
asked  his  son  to  do  it  for  him.  Samuel  refused.  But 
the  memory  of  his  disobedience  and  unkindliness  stayed 
with  him,  and  more  than  fifty  years  after,  as  an  old  and 
worn  man,  he  stood  bare-headed  in  the  wind  and  rain 
for  an  hour  in  the  market-place,  upon  the  spot  where  his 
father's  stall  had  stood.  This  he  did  as  a  penance  for  that 
one  act  of  disobedience. 

Johnson's  father  was  a  bookworm,  like  his  son,  rather 
than  a  tradesman.  He  knew  and  loved  his  books,  but 
he  made  little  money  by  them.  A  student  himself,  he 
was  proud  of  his  studious  boy,  and  wanted  to  send  him  to 
college.  But  he  was  miserably  poor  and  could  not  afford 
it.  A  well-off  friend,  however,  offered  to  help,  and  so  at 
eighteen  Samuel  went  to  Oxford. 

Here  he  remained  three  years.  Those  years  were 
not  altogether  happy  ones,  for  Johnson's  huge  ungainly 


DAYS  OF  STRUGGLE  505 

figure,  and  shabby,  patched  clothes  were  matters  for 
laughter  among  his  fellow-students.  He  became  a  sloven 
in  his  dress.  His  gown  was  tattered  and  his  linen  dirty, 
and  his  toes  showed  through  his  boots.  Yet  when  some 
one,  meaning  no  doubt  to  be  kind,  placed  a  new  pair  at 
his  door,  he  kicked  them  away  in  anger.  He  would  not 
stoop  to  accept  charity.  But  in  spite  of  his  poverty  and 
shabby  clothes,  he  was  a  leader  at  college  as  he  had  been 
at  school,  and  might  often  be  seen  at  his  college  gates 
with  a  crowd  of  young  men  round  him,  "entertaining  them 
with  wit  and  keeping  them  from  their  studies."  ^ 

After  remaining  about  three  years  at  college,  Johnson 
left  without  taking  a  degree.  Perhaps  poverty  had  some- 
thing to  do  with  that.  At  any  rate,  with  a  great  deal  of 
strange,  unordered  learning  and  no  degree,  and  with  his 
fortune  still  to  make,  Samuel  returned  to  his  poverty- 
stricken  home.  There  in  a  few  months  the  father  died, 
leaving  to  his  son  an  inheritance  of  forty  pounds. 

With  forty  pounds  not  much  is  to  be  done,  and  Samuel 
became  an  usher,  or  under-master  in  a  school.  He  was 
little  fitted  to  teach,  and  the  months  which  followed  were 
to  him  a  torture,  and  all  his  life  after  he  looked  back  on 
them  with  something  of  horror. 

After  a  few  months,  he  left  the  school  where  he  had 
been  so  unhappy,  and  went  to  Birmingham  to  be  near 
an  old  schoolfellow.  Here  he  managed  to  live  somehow, 
doing  odd  bits  of  writing,  and  here  he  met  the  lady  who 
became  his  wife. 

Johnson  was  now  twenty-five  and  a  strange-looking 
figure.  He  was  tall  and  lank,  and  his  huge  bones  seemed  to 
start  out  of  his  lean  body.  His  face  was  deeply  marked 
with  scars,  and  although  he  was  very  near-sighted,  his  gray 
eyes  were  bright  and  wild,  so  wild  at  times  that  the}^ 
frightened  those  upon  whom  they  were  turned.     He  wore 

*  Boswell. 


506  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

his  own  hair,  which  was  coarse  and  straight,  and  in  an  age 
when  every  man  wore  a  wig  this  made  him  look  absurd. 
He  had  a  trick  of  making  queer  gestures  with  hands  and 
feet.  He  would  shake  his  head  and  roll  himself  about,  and 
would  mutter  to  himself  until  strangers  thought  that  he 
was  an  idiot. 

And  this  queer  genius  fell  in  love  with  a  widow  lady 
more  than  twenty  years  older  than  himself.  She,  we  are 
told,  was  coarse,  fat,  and  unlovely,  but  she  was  not  without 
brains,  for  she  saw  beneath  the  strange  outside  of  her  young 
lover.  "This  is  the  most  sensible  man  that  I  ever  saw 
in  my  life,"  she  said,  after  talking  with  him.  So  this 
strange  couple  married.  "Sir,"  said  Johnson  afterwards, 
"it  was  a  love-marriage  on  both  sides."  And  there  can  be 
no  doubt  that  Samuel  loved  his  wife  devotedly  while  she 
lived,  and  treasured  her  memory  tenderty  after  her  death. 

INIrs.  Johnson  had  a  little  money,  and  so  Samuel 
returned  to  his  native  town  and  there  opened  a  school. 
An  advertisement  appeared  in  the  papers,  "At  Edial, 
near  Lichfield,  in  Staffordshire,  young  gentlemen  are 
boarded  and  taught  the  liatin  and  Greek  languages,  by 
Samuel  Johnson."  But  Johnson  was  quite  unfitted  to  be 
a  teacher,  and  the  school  did  not  prosper.  "His  school- 
room," says  another  writer,  "must  have  resembled  an 
ogre's  den,"  and  only  two  or  three  boys  came  to  it.  Among 
them  was  David  Garrick,  who  afterwards  became  a  famous 
actor  and  amused  the  world  by  imitating  his  friend  and 
old  schoolmaster,  the  great  Sam,  as  well  as  his  elderly 
wife. 

After  struggling  with  his  school  for  more  than  a  year, 
Johnson  resolved  to  give  it  up  and  go  to  London,  there 
to  seek  his  fortune.  Leaving  his  wife  at  Lichfield,  he 
set  off  with  his  friend  and  pupil,  David  Garrick,  as  he 
afterwards  said,  "With  twopence  halfpenny  in  my  pocket, 
and  thou,  Davy,  with  three  halfpence  in  thine." 

The   days   of   the   later   Stuarts   and   the   first   of   the 


DAYS  OF  STRUGGLE  507 

Georges  were  the  great  days  of  patronage.  AVhen  a 
writer  of  genius  appeared,  noblemen  and  others,  who 
were  powerful  and  wealthy,  w^ere  eager  to  become  his 
patron,  and  have  his  books  dedicated  to  them.  So 
although  the  dunces  among  writers  remained  terribly 
poor,  almost  every  man  of  genius  was  sure  of  a  comfortable 
life.  But  although  he  gained  this  by  his  writing,  it  was 
not  because  the  people  liked  his  books,  but  because  one 
man  liked  them  or  was  eager  to  have  his  name  upon  them, 
and  therefore  became  his  patron.  The  patron,  then, 
either  himself  helped  his  pet  writer,  or  got  for  him  some 
govermiient  employment.  After  a  time  this  fashion 
ceased,  and  instead  of  taking  his  book  to  a  patron,  a 
writer  took  it  to  a  bookseller,  and  sold  it  to  him  for  as 
much  money  as  he  could.  And  so  began  the  modern  way 
of  publishing  books. 

But  when  Johnson  came  to  London  to  try  his  fortune 
as  a  writer,  it  was  just  the  time  between.  The  patron  had 
not  quite  vanished,  the  bookseller  had  not  yet  taken  his 
place.  Never  had  writinng  been  more  badly  paid,  never 
had  it  been  more  difficult  to  make  a  living  by  it.  "The 
trade  of  author  was  at  about  one  of  its  lowest  ebbs  when 
Johnson  embarked  on  it."  ^ 

Johnson  had  brought  with  him  to  London  a  tragedy 
more  than  half  written,  but  when  he  took  it  to  the  book- 
sellers they  showed  no  eagerness  to  publish  it,  or  indeed 
anything  else  that  he  might  write.  Looking  at  him  they 
saw  no  genius,  but  only  a  huge  and  uncouth  country  youth. 
One  bookseller,  seeing  his  great  body,  advised  him  rather 
to  try  his  luck  as  a  porter  than  as  a  writer.  But,  in  spite 
of  rebuffs  and  disappointments,  Johnson  would  not  give 
in.  When  he  had  money  enough  he  lived  in  mean  lodgings, 
when  he  had  none,  hungry,  ragged,  and  cold,  he  roamed 
about  the  streets,  making  friends  with  other  strange,  for- 
lorn men  of  genius,  and  sharing  their  miseries. 

'  Carlyle. 


508  ENGLISH  LITERTURE 

But  if  Johnson  starved  he  never  cringed,  and  once  when 
a  bookseller  spoke  rudely  to  him  he  knocked  him  down 
with  one  of  his  own  books.  A  beggar  or  not,  Johnson 
demanded  the  respect  due  to  a  man.  At  school  and 
college  he  had  dominated  his  fellows,  he  dominated  now. 
But  the  need  of  fighting  for  respect  made  him  rough. 
And  ever  after  his  manner  with  friend  and  foe  alike  was 
rude  and  brusque. 

The  misery  of  this  time  was  such  that  long  years 
after  Johnson  burst  into  tears  at  the  memory  of  it. 
But  it  did  not  conquer  him,  he  conquered  it.  He  got 
work  to  do  at  last,  and  became  one  of  the  first  newspaper 
reporters. 

Nowadays,  during  the  debates  in  Parliament  there 
are  numbers  of  newspapers  reporters  who  take  down  all 
that  is  said  in  shorthand,  and  who  afterwards  write  out 
the  debates  for  their  various  newspapers.  In  Johnson's 
day  no  such  thing  had  been  thought  of.  He  did  not  hear 
the  debates,  but  wrote  his  accounts  of  them  from  a  few 
notes  given  to  him  by  some  one  who  had  heard  them. 
The  speeches  which  appeared  in  the  paper  were  thus 
really  Johnson's,  and  had  very  little  resemblance  to  what 
had  been  said  in  the  House.  And  being  a  Tory,  Johnson 
took  good  care,  as  he  afterwards  confessed,  "that  the 
Whig  dogs  should  not  have  the  best  of  it."  After  a  time, 
however,  Johnson  began  to  think  this  so-called  reporting 
was  not  quite  honest,  and  gave  it  up.  He  found  other 
literary  work  to  do,  and  soon,  although  he  was  still  poor, 
he  had  enough  money  to  make  it  possible  for  his  wife  to 
join  him  in  London. 

Among  other  things  he  wrote  one  or  two  poems  and 
the  life  of  Richard  Savage,  a  strange,  wild  genius  with 
whom  he  had  wandered  the  streets  in  the  days  of  his  worst 
poverty.  The  tragedy  called  Irene  which  Johnson  had 
brought  with  him  to  London  was  at  length  after  twelve 


DAYS  OF  STRUGGLE  509 

years  produced  by  Garrick,  who  had  by  that  time  become 
a  famous  actor.  Johnson  had,  however,  no  dramatic  genius. 
"When  Johnson  writes  tragedy,"  said  Garrick,  "  'declama- 
tion roars  and  passion  sleeps'*/  when  Shakespeare  wrote, 
he  dipped  the  pen  in  his  own  heart."  Garrick  did  what 
he  could  with  the  play,  but  it  was  a  failure,  and  although 
Johnson  continued  to  believe  that  it  was  good,  he  wrote  no 
more  tragedies. 

The  story  of  Irene  is  one  of  the  fall  of  Constantinople 
in  1453.  After  Mahomet  had  taken  Constantinople  he 
fell  in  love  with  a  fair  Greek  maiden  whose  name  was 
Irene.  The  Sultan  begged  her  to  become  a  Mohammedan 
so  that  he  might  marry  her.  To  this  Irene  consented, 
but  when  his  soldiers  heard  of  it  they  were  so  angry  that 
they  formed  a  conspiracy  to  dethrone  their  ruler. 

Hearing  of  this  Mahomet  resolved  to  make  an  end  of 
the  conspiracy  and  rescue  his  throne  from  danger.  Calling 
all  his  nobles  together  he  bade  Irene  appear  before  him. 
Then  catching  her  by  the  hair  with  one  hand  and  drawing 
his  sword  with  the  other  he  at  one  blow  struck  off  her 
head.  This  deed  jfilled  all  who  saw  it  with  terror  and 
wonder.  But  turning  to  his  nobles  Mahomet  cried, 
"Now  by  this,  judge  if  your  Emperor  is  able  to  bridle  his 
affections  or  not." 

It  seems  as  if  there  were  here  a  story  which  might 
be  made  to  stir  our  hearts,  but  Johnson  makes  it  merely 
dull.  In  his  long  words  and  fine-sounding  sentences  we 
catch  no  thrill  of  real  life.  The  play  is  artificial  and  cold, 
and  moves  us  neither  to  wonder  nor  sorrow. 

Johnson's  play  was  a  failure,  but  by  that  time  he  had 
begun  the  great  work  which  was  to  name  him  and  single 
him  out  from  the  rest  of  the  world  as  Dictionary  Johnson. 
To  make  a  complete  dictionary  of  a  language  is  a  tre- 

'  Garrick   is   here   quoting   from   one   of  Johnson's   own   poems   in  which   he 
describes  the  decline  of  the  drama  at  the  Restoration. 


510  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

mendous  work.     Johnson  thought  that  it  would  take  three 
years.     It  took,  mstead,  seven. 

But  during  these  seven  years  he  also  wrote  other 
things  and  steadily  added  to  his  fame.  He  started  a 
paper  after  the  model  of  the  Spectator,  called  the  Rambler. 
This  paper  was  continued  for  about  two  years,  Johnson 
writing  all  but  five  of  the  essays.  After  that  he  wrote 
many  essays  in  a  paper  called  the  Adventurer,  and,  later 
still,  for  two  years  he  wrote  for  another  paper  a  series  of 
articles  called  the  Idler. 

But  none  of  these  can  we  compare  with  the  Spectator. 
Johnson  never  for  a  moment  loses  sight  of  "a  grand 
moral  end."  There  is  in  his  essays  much  sound  common 
sense,  but  they  are  lumbering  and  heavy.  We  get  from 
them  no  such  picture  of  the  times  as  we  get  from  the 
Spectator,  and,  although  they  are  not  altogether  without 
humor,  it  is  a  humor  that  not  seldom  reminds  us  of 
the  dancing  of  an  elephant.  This  is  partly  because,  as 
Johnson  said  himself,  he  is  inclined  to  "use  too  big  words 
and  too  many  of  them." 

In  the  days  when  Johnson  wrote,  this  style  was  greatly 
admired,  but  now  we  have  come  back  to  thinking  that 
the  simplest  words  are  best,  or,  at  least,  that  we  must 
suit  our  words  to  our  subject.  And  if  we  tell  a  fairy  tale 
(as  Johnson  once  did)  we  must  not  use  words  of  five 
syllables  when  words  of  two  will  better  give  the  feeling 
of  the  tale.  Yet  there  are  many  pleasant  half-hours  to 
be  spent  in  dipping  here  and  there  into  the  volumes  of 
the  Rambler  or  the  Idler.  I  will  give  you  in  the  next 
chapter,  as  a  specimen  of  Johnson's  prose,  part  of  one  of 
the  essays  from  the  Idler.  It  is  the  story  of  a  man  who 
sets  forth  upon  a  very  ordinary  journey  and  who  makes 
as  great  a  tale  of  it  as  he  had  been  upon  a  voyage  of  dis- 
covery in  some  untraveled  land. 


CHAPTER  LXIX 

JOHNSON— THE  END  OF  THE  JOURNEY 

"I  SUPPED  three  nights  ago  with  my  friend  Will  Marvel. 
His  affairs  obliged  him  lately  to  take  a  journey  into 
Devonshire,  from  which  he  has  just  returned.  He  knows 
me  to  be  a  very  patient  hearer,  and  was  glad  of  my  com- 
pany, as  it  gave  him  an  opportunity  of  disburdening 
himself,  by  a  minute  relation  of  the  casualties  of  his 
expedition. 

"Will  is  not  one  of  those  who  go  out  and  return  with 
nothing  to  tell.  He  has  a  story  of  his  travels,  which 
will  strike  a  home-bred  citizen  with  horror,  and  has  in 
ten  days  suffered  so  often  the  extremes  of  terror  and  joy, 
that  he  is  in  doubt  whether  he  shall  ever  again  expose 
either  his  body  or  his  mind  to  such  danger  and  fatigue. 

"When  he  left  London  the  morning  was  bright,  and  a 
fair  day  was  promised.  But  Will  is  born  to  struggle  with 
difficulties.  That  happened  to  him,  which  has  sometimes, 
perhaps,  happened  to  others.  Before  he  had  gone  more 
than  ten  miles,  it  began  to  rain.  What  course  was  to  be 
taken?  His  soul  disdained  to  turn  back.  He  did  what 
the  King  of  Prussia  might  have  done;  he  flapped  his  hat, 
buttoned  up  his  cape,  and  went  forwards,  fortifying  his 
mind  by  the  stoical  consolation,  that  whatever  is  violent 
will  be  short." 

So,  with  such  adventures,  the  first  day  passes,  and 
reaching  his  inn,  after  a  good  supper,  Will  Marvel  goes 
to  bed  and   sleeps  soundly.     But  during  the  night  he  is 

511 


512  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

wakened  "by  a  shower  beating  against  his  windows  with 
such  violence  as  to  threaten  the  dissolution  of  nature." 
Thus  he  knows  that  the  next  day  will  have  its  troubles. 
"He  joined  himself,  however,  to  a  company  that  was 
travelling  the  same  way,  and  came  safely  to  the  place  of 
dinner,  though  every  step  of  his  horse  dashed  the  mud  in 
the  air." 

In  the  afternoon  he  went  on  alone,  passing  "collections 
of  water,"  puddles  doubtless,  the  depth  of  which  it  was 
impossible  to  guess,  and  looking  back  upon  the  ride  he 
marvels  at  his  rash  daring.  "But  what  a  man  undertakes 
he  must  perform,  and  INIarvel  hates  a  coward  at  his  heart. 

"Few  that  lie  warm  in  their  beds  think  what  others 
undergo,  who  have,  perhaps,  been  as  tenderly  educated, 
and  have  as  acute  sensations  as  themselves.  My  friend 
was  now  to  lodge  the  second  night  almost  fifty  miles  from 
home,  in  a  house  which  he  never  had  seen  before,  among 
people  to  whom  he  was  totally  a  stranger,  not  knowing 
whether  the  next  man  he  should  meet  would  prove  good 
or  bad;  but  seeing  an  inn  of  a  good  appearance,  he  rode 
resolutely  into  the  yard;  and  knowing  that  respect  is 
often  paid  in  proportion  as  it  is  claimed,  delivered  his 
injunctions  to  the  ostler  with  spirit,  and,  entering  the 
house,  called  vigorously  about  him. 

"On  the  third  day  up  rose  the  sun  and  Mr.  Marvel. 
His  troubles  and  dangers  were  now  such  as  he  wishes  no 
other  man  ever  to  encounter."  The  way  was  lonely, 
often  for  two  miles  together  he  met  not  a  single  soul 
with  whom  he  could  speak,  and,  looking  at  the  bleak 
fields  and  naked  trees,  he  wished  himself  safe  home  again. 
His  only  consolation  was  that  he  suffered  these  terrors  of 
the  way  alone.  Had,  for  instance,  his  friend  the  "Idler" 
been  there  he  could  have  done  nothing  but  lie  down  and 
die. 

"At  last  the  sun  set  and  all  the  horrors  of  darkness 


THE  END  OF  THE  JOURNEY  513 

came  upon  him.  .  .  .  Yet  he  went  forward  along  a  path 
which  he  could  no  longer  see,  sometimes  rushing  suddenly 
into  water,  and  sometimes  encumbered  with  stiff  clay, 
ignorant  whither  he  was  going,  and  uncertain  whether  his 
next  step  might  not  be  the  last. 

"In  this  dismal  gloom  of  nocturnal  peregrination  his 
horse  unexpectedly  stood  still.  Marvel  had  heard  many 
relations  of  the  instinct  of  horses,  and  was  in  doubt  what 
danger  might  be  at  hand.  Sometimes  he  fancied  that  he 
was  on  the  bank  of  a  river  still  and  deep,  and  sometimes 
that  a  dead  body  lay  across  the  track.  He  sat  still  awhile 
to  recollect  his  thoughts;  and  as  he  was  about  to  alight 
and  explore  the  darkness,  out  stepped  a  man  with  a  lan- 
tern, and  opened  the  turnpike.  He  hired  a  guide  to  the 
town,  arrived  in  safety,  and  slept  in  quiet. 

"The  rest  of  his  journey  was  nothing  but  danger.  He 
climbed  and  descended  precipices  on  which  vulgar  mortals 
tremble  to  look;  he  passed  marshes  like  the  Serhonian 
hog,^  where  armies  whole  have  sunk;  he  forded  rivers  where 
the  current  roared  like  the  Egre  or  the  Severn;  or  ven- 
tured himself  on  bridges  that  trembled  under  him,  from 
which  he  looked  down  on  foaming  whirlpools,  or  dreadful 
abysses;  he  wandered  over  houseless  heaths,  amidst  all  the 
rage  of  the  elements,  with  the  snow  driving  in  his  face, 
and  the  tempest  howling  in  his  ears. 

"Such  are  the  colours  in  which  ]Marvel  paints  his  adven- 
tures. He  has  accustomed  himself  to  sounding  words  and 
hyperbolical  images,  till  he  has  lost  the  power  of  true 
description.  In  a  road,  through  which  the  heaviest 
carriages  pass  without  difficulty,  and  the  post-boy  every 
day  and  night  goes  and  returns,  he  meets  with  hardships 

*  Lake  Serbonis  in  Egypt.     Sand  being  blown  over  it  by  the  winds  gave  it  the 
appearance  of  solid  ground,  whereas  it  was  a  bog. 

"A  gulf  profound  as  that  Serbonian  bog   .   .   . 
Where  armies  whole  have  sunk." — Milton. 


514  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

like  those  which  are  endured  in  Siberian  deserts,  and 
missed  nothing  of  romantic  danger  but  a  giant  and  a 
dragon.  When  his  dreadful  story  is  told  in  proper  terms, 
it  is  only  that  the  way  was  dirty  in  winter,  and  that  he 
experienced  the  common  vicissitudes  of  rain  and  sun- 
shine." 

I  am  afraid  you  will  find  a  good  many  "too  big" 
words  in  that.  But  if  I  changed  them  to  others  more 
simple  you  would  get  no  idea  of  the  way  in  which  Johnson 
wrote,  and  I  hope  those  you  do  not  understand  you  will 
look  up  in  the  dictionary.  It  will  not  be  Johnson's  own 
dictionary,  however,  for  that  has  grown  old-fashioned, 
and  its  place  has  been  taken  by  later  ones.  For  some  of 
Johnson's  meanings  were  not  correct,  and  when  these 
mistakes  were  pointed  out  to  him  he  was  not  in  the  least 
ashamed.  Once  a  lady  asked  him  how  he  came  to  say 
that  the  pastern  was  the  knee  of  a  horse,  and  he  calmly 
replied,  "Ignorance,  madam,  pure  ignorance."  "Diction- 
aries are  like  watches,"  he  said,  "the  worst  is  better  than 
none,  and  the  best  cannot  be  expected  to  go  quite  true." 

With  some  words,  instead  of  giving  the  original  mean- 
ing, he  gave  a  personal  meaning,  that  is  he  allowed  his  own 
sense  of  humor,  feelings  or  politics,  to  color  the  meaning. 
For  instance,  he  disliked  the  Scots,  so  for  the  meaning  of 
Oats  he  gave,  "A  grain  which  in  England  is  generally 
given  to  horses,  but  in  Scotland  supports  the  people."  He 
disliked  the  Excise  duty,  so  he  called  it  "A  hateful  tax 
levied  by  wretches  hired  by  those  to  whom  excise  is  paid." 
For  this  last  meaning  he  came  very  near  being  punished  for 
libel. 

When  Johnson  thought  of  beginning  the  dictionary 
he  wrote  about  it  to  Lord  Chesterfield,  a  great  man 
and  fine  gentleman  of  the  day.  As  the  fashion  was, 
Johnson  had  chosen  this  great  man  for  his  patron.  But 
Lord    Chesterfield,    although   his   vanity   was   flattered    at 


THE  END  OF  THE  JOURNEY  515 

the  idea  of  having  a  book  dedicated  to  him,  was  too 
delicate  a  fine  gentleman  to  wish  to  have  anything  to  do 
with  a  man  he  considered  poor.  "He  throws  anywhere 
but  down  his  throat,"  he  said,  "whatever  he  means  to 
drink,  and  mangles  what  he  means  to  carve.  .  .  .  The 
utmost  I  can  do  for  him  is  to  consider  him  a  respectable 
Hottentot."  So,  when  Johnson  had  called  several  times 
and  been  told  that  his  lordship  was  not  at  home,  or  had 
been  kept  waiting  for  hours  before  he  was  received,  he 
grew  angry,  and  marched  away  never  to  return,  vowing 
that  he  had  done  with  patrons  for  ever. 

The  years  went  on,  and  Johnson  saw  nothing  of  his 
patron.  When,  however,  the  dictionary  was  nearly  done, 
Lord  Chesterfield  let  it  be  known  that  he  would  be  pleased 
to  have  it  dedicated  to  him.  But  Johnson  would  have 
none  of  it.  He  wrote  a  letter  which  was  the  "Blast  of 
Doom,  proclaiming  into  the  ear  of  Lord  Chesterfield, 
and,  through  him,  of  the  listening  world,  that  patronage 
would  be  no  more!"  ^ 

"Seven  years,  my  Lord,  have  now  passed,"  wrote 
Johnson,  "since  I  waited  in  your  outward  rooms  and 
was  repulsed  from  your  door;  during  which  time  I  have 
been  pushing  on  my  work  through  difficulties  of  which 
it  is  useless  to  complain,  and  have  brought  it  at  last  to 
the  verge  of  publication  without  one  act  of  assistance, 
one  word  of  encouragement,  and  one  smile  of  favour. 
Such  treatment  I  did  not  expect,  for  I  never  had  a  patron 
before.   .    .    . 

"Is  not  a  patron,  my  Lord,  one  who  looks  with  un- 
concern on  a  man  struggling  for  life  in  the  water,  and 
when  he  has  reached  the  ground  cumbers  him  with  help? 
The  notice  which  you  have  been  pleased  to  take  of  my 
labours,  had  it  been  early,  had  been  kind;  but  it  has  been 
delayed  till  I  am  indifferent,  and  cannot  enjoy  it;  till  I 

"■  Carlyle. 


516  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

am  solitary,  and  cannot  impart  it;  till  I  am  known,  and 
do  not  want  it." 

There  was  an  end  of  patronage  so  far  as  Johnson  was 
concerned,  and  it  was  the  beginning  of  the  end  of  it  with 
others.  Great  Sam  had  roared,  he  had  asserted  himself, 
and  with  the  publication  of  his  dictionary  he  became 
"The  Great  Cham  '  of  literature."  "" 

He  had  by  this  time  founded  a  club  of  literary  men 
which  met  at  "a  famous  beef-steak  house,"  and  here  he 
lorded  it  over  his  fellows  as  his  bulky  namesake  had 
done  more  than  a  hundred  years  before.  In  many  ways 
there  was  a  great  likeness  between  these  two.  They 
were  both  big  and  stout  (for  Sam  was  now  stout).  They 
were  loud-voiced  and  dictatorial.  They  both  drank  a 
great  deal,  but  Ben,  alas,  drank  wine  overmuch,  as  was 
common  in  his  day,  while  Sam  drank  endless  cups  of  tea, 
seventeen  or  eighteen  it  might  be  at  a  sitting,  indeed  he 
called  himself  a  hardened  and  shameless  tea-drinker. 
But,  above  all,  their  likeness  lies  in  the  fact  that  they 
both  dominated  the  literary  men  of  their  period;  they 
were  kings  and  rulers.  They  laid  down  the  law  and 
settled  who  was  great  and  who  little  among  the  writers 
of  the  day.  And  it  was  not  merely  the  friends  around 
Johnson  w^ho  heard  him  talk,  who  listened  to  his  judg- 
ments about  books  and  writers.  The  world  outside 
listened,  too,  to  what  he  had  to  say,  and  you  will  remember 
that  it  was  he  who  utterly  condemned  JMacpherson's 
pretended  poems  of  Ossian,  "that  pious  three-quarters 
fraud"  ^  of  which  you  have  already  read  in  chapter  iv. 

Johnson  had  always  spent  much  of  his  time  in  taverns, 
and  was  now  more  than  ever  free  to  do  so.  For  while 
he  was  still  working  at  his  dictionary  he  suffered  a  great 
grief  in  the  death  of  his  wife.     He  had  loved  her  truly 

^A  Tartar  word  for  prince  or  chief.  *  Smollett. 

'  A.  Lang. 


THE  END  OF  THE  JOURNEY  517 

and  never  ceased  to  mourn  her  loss.  But  though  he  had 
lost  his  wife,  he  did  not  remain  solitary  in  his  home,  for  he 
opened  his  doors  to  a  queer  collection  of  waifs  and  strays 
— three  women  and  a  man,  upon  whom  he  took  pity 
because  no  one  else  would.  They  were  ungrateful  and 
undeserving,  and  quarreled  constantly  among  them- 
selves, so  that  his  home  could  have  been  no  peaceful 
spot.  "Williams  hates  everybody,"  he  writes;  "Levett 
hates  Desmoulins  and  does  not  love  Williams;  Des- 
moulins  hates  them  both;  Poll  loves  none  of  them."  It 
does  not  sound  peaceful  or  happy. 

Some  years  after  the  death  of  Johnson's  wife  his 
mother  died  at  the  age  of  ninety,  and  although  he  had 
not  been  with  her  for  many  years,  that  too  was  a  grief. 
The  poor  lady  had  had  very  little  to  live  on,  and  she  left 
some  debts.  Johnson  himself  was  still  struggling  with 
poverty.  He  had  no  money,  so  to  pay  his  mother's  few 
debts,  and  also  the  expenses  of  her  funeral,  he  sat  down 
to  write  a  story.  In  a  week  he  had  finished  Rasselas, 
Prince  of  Abyssinia. 

The  story  of  Rasselas  is  that  of  a  prince  who  is  shut 
up  in  the  Happy  Valley  until  the  time  shall  come  for  him 
to  ascend  the  throne  of  his  fathers.  Everything  was 
done  to  make  life  in  the  Happy  Valley  peaceful  and  joyful, 
but  Rasselas  grew  weary  of  it;  to  him  it  became  but  a 
l^rison  of  pleasure,  and  at  last,  with  his  favorite  sister, 
he  escaped  out  into  the  world.  The  story  tells  then  of 
their  search  for  happiness.  But  perfect  happiness  they 
cannot  find,  and  discovering  this,  they  decide  to  return  to 
the  Happy  Valley. 

There  is  a  vein  of  sadness  throughout  the  book.  It 
ends  as  it  were  with  a  big  question  mark,  with  a  "conclu- 
sion in  which  nothing  is  concluded."  For  the  position  of 
the  prince  and  his  sister  was  unchanged,  and  they  had  not 
found  what  they  sought.     Is  it  to  be  found  at  all?     The 


518  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

story  is  a  revelation  of  Johnson  himself.  He  never  saw 
life  joyously,  and  at  times  he  had  fits  of  deep  melancholy 
which  he  fought  against  as  against  a  madness.  "I 
inherited,"  he  said,  "a  vile  melancholy  from  my  father, 
v\'hich  has  made  me  mad  all  my  life,  at  least  not  sober," 
and  his  long  struggle  with  poverty  helped  to  deej^en  this 
melancholy. 

But  a  year  or  two  after  Rasselas  was  written,  a  great 
change  came  in  Johnson's  life,  which  gave  him  comfort 
and  security  for  the  rest  of  his  days.  George  iii.  had 
come  to  the  throne.  He  thought  that  he  would  like  to 
do  something  for  literature,  and  offered  Johnson  a  pension 
of  three  hundred  pounds  a  year. 

Johnson  was  now  a  man  of  fifty-four.  He  was  acknow- 
ledged as  the  greatest  man  of  letters  of  his  day,  yet  he  was 
still  poor.  Three  hundred  pounds  seemed  to  him  wealth, 
but  he  hesitated  to  accept  it.  He  was  an  ardent  Tory  and 
hated  the  House  of  Hanover.  In  his  dictionary  he  had 
called  a  pension  "an  allowance  made  to  any  one  without  an 
equivalent.  In  England  it  is  generally  understood  to  mean 
pay  given  to  a  state  hireling  for  treason  to  his  country." 
A  pensioner  he  had  said  was  "A  slave  of  state  hired  by  a 
stipend  to  obey  his  master."  Was  he  then  to  become  a 
traitor  to  his  country  and  a  slave  of  state? 

But  after  a  little  persuasion  Johnson  j^ielded,  as  the 
pension  would  be  given  to  him,  he  was  told,  not  for 
anything  that  he  would  do,  but  for  what  he  had  done. 
"It  is  true,"  he  said  afterwards,  with  a  smile,  "that  I 
cannot  now  curse  the  House  of  Hanover;  nor  would  it 
be  decent  for  me  to  drink  King  James's  health  in  the  wine 
that  King  George  gives  me  money  to  pay  for.  But,  sir,  I 
think  that  the  pleasure  of  cursing  the  House  of  Hanover, 
and  drinking  King  James's  health,  are  amply  overbalanced 
by  three  hundred  pounds  a  year." 

Johnson  had   always   been   indolent.      It   was   perhaps 


THE  END  OF  THE  JOURNEY  519 

only  poverty  that  had  forced  him  to  write,  and  now  that 
he  was  comfortably  provided  for  he  became  more  indolent 
still.  He  reproached  himself,  made  good  resolutions, 
and  prayed  over  this  fault,  but  still  he  remained  slothful 
and  idle.  He  would  lie  abed  till  two  o'clock,  and  sit  up 
half  the  night  talking,  and  an  addition  of  Shakespeare 
which  he  had  promised  years  before  got  no  further  on. 
An  edition  of  another  man's  works  often  means  a  great 
deal  of  labor  in  making  notes  and  comments.  This  is 
especially  so  if  hundreds  of  years  have  passed  since  the 
book  was  first  written  and  the  language  has  had  time  to 
change,  and  Johnson  felt  little  inclined  for  this  labor.  But 
at  length  he  was  goaded  into  working  upon  his  Shake- 
speare by  some  spiteful  verses  on  his  idleness,  written 
by  a  political  enemy,  and  after  long  delay  it  appeared. 

Just  a  little  before  this  a  young  Scotsman  named 
James  Boswell  got  to  know  the  great  man.  He  worshiped 
Johnson  and  spent  as  much  time  with  him  as  he  could. 
It  was  a  strange  friendship  which  grew  up  between  these 
two.  The  great  man  bullied  and  insulted  yet  loved  the 
little  man,  and  the  little  man  accepted  all  the  insults 
gladly,  happy  to  be  allowed  to  be  near  his  hero  on  any 
conditions  whatever.  He  treasured  every  word  that 
Johnson  spoke  and  noted  his  every  action.  Nothing  was 
was  too  small  or  trivial  for  his  loving  observation.  He 
asked  Johnson  questions  and  made  remarks,  foolish  or 
otherwise,  in  order  to  draw  him  out  and  make  him  talk, 
and  afterwards  he  set  down  everything  in  a  notebook. 

And  when  Johnson  w^as  dead  Boswell  wrote  his  life. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  wonderful  lives  ever  written — perhaps 
the  most  wonderful.  And  when  we  have  read  it  we  seem 
to  know  Johnson  as  well  as  if  we  had  lived  with  him. 
We  see  and  know  him  in  all  his  greatness  and  all  his  little- 
ness, in  all  his  weakness  and  all  his  might. 

It    was    with    Boswell    that    Johnson    made    his    most 


520  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

famous  journey,  his  tour  to  Scotland.  For,  like  his  name- 
sake, Ben,  he  too  visited  Scotland.  But  he  traveled  in 
a  more  comfortable  manner,  and  his  journey  was  a  much 
longer  one,  for  he  went  as  far  as  the  Hebrides.  It  was 
a  wonderful  expedition  for  a  man  of  sixty-four,  especially 
in  those  days  v/hen  there  were  no  trains  and  little  ease 
in  the  way  of  traveling,  and  when  much  of  it  had  to  be 
done  on  rough  ponies  or  in  open  boats. 

On  his  return  Johnson  wrote  an  account  of  this  journey 
which  did  not  altogether  please  some  of  the  Scots.  But 
indeed,  although  Johnson  did  not  love  the  Scots,  there  is 
little  in  his  book  at  which  to  take  offense. 

Johnson's  last  work  was  a  series  of  short  lives  of  some 
of  the  English  poets  from  the  seventeenth  century  onwards. 
It  is  generally  looked  upon  as  his  best.  And  although 
some  of  the  poets  of  whom  he  wrote  are  almost  forgotten, 
and  although  we  may  think  that  he  was  wrong  in  his 
criticisms  of  many  of  the  others,  this  is  the  book  of 
Johnson's  which  is  still  most  read.  For  it  must  be  owned 
that  the  great  Sam  is  not  much  read  now,  although  he  is 
such  an  important  figure  in  the  history  of  our  literature.  It 
is  as  a  person  that  we  remember  him,  not  as  a  writer.  He 
stamped  his  personality,  as  it  is  called,  upon  his  age. 
Boswell  caught  that  personality  and  preserved  it  for  us, 
so  that,  for  generation  after  generation,  Johnson  lives  as 
no  other  character  in  English  literature  lives.  Boswell 
gave  a  new  meaning  to  the  word  biographer,  that  is  the 
writer  of  a  life,  and  now  when  a  great  man  has  had  no  one 
to  write  his  life  well,  we  say  "He  lacks  a  Boswell." 

Boswell  after  a  time  joined  the  famous  club  at  which 
Johnson  and  his  friends  met  together  and  talked.  John- 
son loved  to  argue,  and  he  made  a  point  of  always  getting 
the  best  of  an  argument.  If  he  could  not  do  so  by  reason, 
he  simply  roared  his  opponent  down  and  silenced  him 
by  sheer  rudeness.     "There  is  no  arguing  with  Johnson," 


"THERE   IS  NO  ARGUING  WITH  JOHNSON,'    SAID   GOLDSMITH,   'FOR   W  HEX   HIS 
PISTOL    MISSES    FIRE    HE   KNOCKS    VOL     DOWN    WITH   THE    BUTT   END   OF   IT."  ' 


THE  END  OF  THE  JOURNEY  521 

said  one  of  his  friends,  Oliver  Goldsmith,  "for  when  his 
pistol  misses  fire  he  knocks  you  down  with  the  butt  end 
of  it."  And  perhaps  Goldy,  as  Johnson  called  him,  had 
to  suffer  more  rudeness  from  him  than  any  of  his  friends 
save  Bozzy.  Yet  the  three  were  often  to  be  found 
together,  and  it  was  Goldsmith  who  said  of  Johnson,  "No 
man  alive  has  a  more  tender  heart.  He  has  nothing  of 
the  bear  but  his  skin." 

And  indeed  in  Johnson's  outward  appearance  there 
was  much  of  the  bear.  He  was  a  sloven  in  dress.  His 
clothes  were  shabby  and  thrown  on  anyhow.  "I  have  no 
passion  for  clean  linen,"  he  said  himself.  At  table  he 
made  strange  noises  and  ate  greedily,  yet  in  spite  of  all 
that,  added  to  his  noted  temper  and  rude  manners,  men 
loved  him  and  sought  his  company  more  than  that  of 
any  other  writer  of  his  day,  for  "within  that  shaggy 
exterior  of  his  there  beat  a  heart  warm  as  a  mother's, 
soft  as  a  little  child's."  ^ 

After  Johnson  received  his  pension  we  may  look  upon 
him  as  a  lumbering  vessel  which  has  weathered  many  a 
strong  sea  and  has  now  safely  come  to  port.  His  life  was 
henceforth  easy.  He  received  honorary  degrees,  first 
from  Dublin  and  then  from  Oxford,  so  that  he  became 
Dr.  Johnson.  For  two-and-twenty  years  he  enjoyed  his 
pension,  his  freedom  and  his  honors;  then,  in  1784, 
surrounded  by  his  friends,  he  died  in  London,  and  was 
buried  in  Westminster  Abbey. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 
Rasselas,  Prince  of  Abyssinia.     A  Journey  to  the  Western  Islands  of  Scotland. 

»  Carlyle. 


CHAPTER  LXX 

GOLDSMITH— THE  VAGABOND 

The  kind  of  book  which  is  most  written  and  read  nowadays 
is  called  a  novel.  But  we  have  not  yet  spoken  much 
about  this  kind  of  book,  for  until  now  there  were  no  novels 
in  our  meaning  of  the  word.  There  were  romances  such 
as  Haveloh  the  Dane  and  Morte  d' Arthur,  later  still  tales 
such  as  those  of  Defoe,  and  the  modern  novel  is  the  out- 
come of  such  tales  and  romances,  but  it  is  usually  supposed 
to  be  more  like  real  life  than  a  romance.  In  a  romance 
we  may  have  giants  and  fairies,  things  beyond  nature  and 
above  nature.  A  novel  is  supposed  to  tell  only  of  what 
could  happen,  without  the  help  of  anything  outside 
everyday  life.  This  is  a  kind  of  writing  in  which  the 
English  have  become  very  clever,  and  now,  as  I  said,  more 
novels  than  any  other  kinds  of  book  are  written.  But 
only  a  few  of  these  are  good  enough  to  take  a  place  in 
our  literature,  and  very  many  are  not  worth  reading  or 
remembering  at  all. 

The  first  real  novel  in  the  modern  sense  was  written  by 
Samuel  Richardson,  and  published  in  1740.  Quickly 
after  that  there  arose  several  other  novel  writers  whose 
books  became  famous.  These  still  stand  high  in  the 
literature  of  our  land,  but  as  nothing  in  them  would  be 
interesting  to  you  for  many  years  to  come  we  need  not 
trouble  about  them  now.  There  is,  however,  one  novel 
of  this  early  time  which  I  feel  sure  you  would  like,  and  of 

522 


GOLDSJMITH— THE  VAGABOND  523 

it  and  its  author  I  shall  tell  you  something.  The  book  I 
mean  is  called  The  Vicar  of  Wakefield,  and  it  was  written 
by  Oliver  Goldsmith. 

Oliver  Goldsmith  was  born  in  1728  in  Pallas,  a  little 
out-of-the-way  Irish  village.  His  father  was  a  clergyman 
and  farmer,  with  a  large  family  and  very  little  money. 
He  was  a  dear,  simple,  kindly  man. 

"A  man  he  was  to  all  the  country  dear. 
And  passing  rich  with  forty  pounds  a  year." 

Two  years  after  Oliver  was  born  his  father  moved  to 
Lissoy,  another  and  better  parish.  Little  Oliver  began  to 
learn  very  early,  but  his  first  teacher  thought  him  stupid: 
"Never  was  there  such  a  dull  boy,"  she  said.  She  managed, 
however,  to  teach  him  the  alphabet,  and  at  six  he  went  to 
the  village  school  of  Lissoy.  Paddy  Byrne,  the  master 
here,  was  an  old  soldier.  He  had  fought  under  Marl- 
borough, he  had  wandered  the  world  seeking  and  finding 
adventures.  His  head  was  full  of  tales  of  wild  exploits, 
of  battles,  of  ghosts  and  fairies  too,  for  he  was  an  Irishman 
and  knew  and  loved  the  Celtic  lore.  Besides  all  this  he 
wrote  poetry. 

To  his  schoolmaster's  stories  little  Oliver  listened 
eagerly.  He  listened,  too,  to  the  ballads  sung  by  Peggy, 
the  dairymaid,  and  to  the  wild  music  of  the  blind  harper, 
Turlogh  O'Carolan,  the  last  Irish  minstrel.  All  these 
things  sank  into  the  heart  of  the  shy,  little,  ugly  boy 
who  seemed  so  stupid  to  his  schoolfellows.  He  learned 
to  read,  and  devoured  all  the  romances  and  tales  of  adven- 
ture upon  which  he  could  lay  hands,  and  in  imitation  of 
his  schoolmaster  he  began  to  write  poetry. 

For  three  years  Oliver  remained  under  the  care  of  his 
vagabond  teacher.  He  looked  up  to  him  with  a  kind  of 
awed  wonder,  and  many  years  afterwards  he  drew  a  picture 
of  him  in  his  poem  The  Deserted  Village. 


524  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"There^  in  his  noisy  mansion,  skilled  to  rule. 
The  village  master  taught  his  little  school. 
A  man  severe  he  was,  and  stern  to  view; 
I  knew  him  well,  and  every  truant  knew: 
Well  had  the  boding  tremblers  learn'd  to  trace 
The  day's  disasters  in  his  morning  face; 
Full  well  they  laugh'd,  with  counterfeited  glee 
At  all  his  jokes,  for  many  a  joke  had  he; 
Full  well  the  busy  whisper  circing  round 
Convey 'd  the  dismal  tidings  when  he  frown'd. 
Yet  he  was  kind,  or,  if  severe  in  aught. 
The  love  he  bore  to  learning  was  in  fault; 
The  village  all  declared  how  much  he  knew: 
'Twas  certain  he  could  write,  and  cypher  too; 
Lands  he  could  measure,  terms  and  tides  presage. 
And  ev'n  the  story  ran — that  he  could  gauge: 
In  arguing,  too,  the  parson  own'd  his  skill; 
For  ev'n  though  vanquish'd,  he  could  argue  still ; 
While  words  of  learned  length  and  thund'ring  sound. 
Amazed  the  gazing  rustics  ranged  around; 
And  still  they  gazed,  and  still  the  wonder  grew. 
That  one  small  head  should  carry  all  he  knew." 

But  after  three  years  of  school  under  wonderful  Paddy- 
Byrne,  Goldsmith  became  very  ill  with  smallpox.  He 
nearly  died  of  it,  and  when  he  grew  better  he  was  plainer 
than  ever,  for  his  face  was  scarred  and  pitted  by  the 
disease.  Goldsmith  had  been  shy  before  his  illness, 
and  now  when  people  laughed  at  his  pock-marked  face 
he  grew  more  shy  and  sensitive  still.  For  the  next  seven 
years  he  was  moved  about  from  school  to  school,  always 
looked  upon  by  his  fellows  as  dull  of  wit,  but  good  at 
games,  and  always  in  the  forefront  in  mischief. 

At  length,  when  Goldsmith  was  nearly  seventeen,  he 
went  to  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  as  a  sizar.  As  you  know, 
in  those  days  sizars  had  to  wear  a  different  dress  from  the 
commoners.  Oliver's  elder  brother  had  gone  as  a  com- 
moner and  Oliver  had  hoped  to  do  the  same.  But  as  his 
father  could  not  afford  the  money  he  was  obliged,  much 


GOLDSMITH— THE  VAGABOND  525 

against  his  will,  to  go  as  a  sizar.  Indeed  had  it  not  been 
for  the  kindness  of  an  uncle  he  could  not  have  gone  to 
college  at  all. 

Awkward  and  shy,  keen  to  feel  insults  whether  intended 
or  not,  Goldsmith  hated  his  position  as  sizar.  He  did  not 
like  his  tutor  either,  who  was  a  coarse,  rough  man,  so  his 
life  at  college  was  not  altogether  happy.  He  was  con- 
stantly in  want  of  money,  for  when  he  had  any  his  purse 
was  always  open  to  others.  At  times  when  he  was  much 
in  need  he  wrote  street  ballads  for  five  shillings  each,  and 
would  steal  out  at  night  to  have  the  joy  of  hearing  them 
sung  in  the  street. 

Goldsmith  was  idle  and  wild,  and  at  the  end  of  two 
years  he  quarreled  with  his  tutor,  sold  his  books,  and 
ran  away  to  Cork.  He  meant  to  go  on  board  a  ship, 
and  sail  away  for  ever  from  a  land  where  he  had  been  so 
unhappy.  But  he  had  little  money,  and  what  he  had  was 
soon  spent,  and  at  last,  almost  starving,  having  lived  for 
three  days  on  a  shilling,  he  turned  homewards  again. 
Peace  was  made  with  his  tutor,  and  Goldsmith  went  back 
to  college,  and  stayed  there  until  two  years  later  when 
he  took  his  degree. 

His  father  was  now  dead  and  it  was  necessary  for 
Oliver  to  earn  his  own  living.  All  his  family  wished  him 
to  be  a  clergyman,  but  he  "did  not  deem  himself  good 
enough  for  it."  However,  he  yielded  to  their  persuasions, 
and  presented  himself  to  his  bishop.  But  the  bishop 
would  not  ordain  him — why  is  not  known,  but  it  was  said 
that  he  was  offended  with  Goldsmith  for  coming  to  be 
ordained  dressed  in  scarlet  breeches. 

After  this  failure  Oliver  tried  teaching  and  became  a 
tutor,  but  in  a  very  short  time  he  gave  that  up.  Next 
his  uncle,  thinking  that  he  would  make  a  lawyer  of  him, 
gave  him  £50  and  sent  him  off  to  London  to  study  law 
there.    Goldsmith  lost  the  money  in  Dublin,  and  came  home 


526  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

penniless.  Some  time  after  this  a  gentleman  remarked 
that  he  would  make  an  excellent  medical  man,  and  again 
his  uncle  gave  him  money  and  sent  him  off  to  Edinburgh, 
this  time  as  a  medical  student.  So  he  said  his  last  good- 
by  to  home  and  Ireland  and  set  out. 

In  Scotland  Goldsmith  lived  for  a  year  and  a  half 
traveling  about,  enjoying  life,  and,  it  may  be,  studying. 
Then,  in  his  happy-go-lucky  way,  he  decided  it  would  be 
well  to  go  to  Holland  to  finish  his  medical  studies  there. 
Off  he  started  with  little  money  in  his  pocket,  and  many 
debts  behind  him.  After  not  a  few  adventures  he  arrived 
at  length  in  Leyden.  Here  passing  a  florist's  shop  he  saw 
some  bulbs  which  he  knew  his  uncle  wanted.  So  in  he  ran 
to  the  shop,  bought  them,  and  sent  them  off  to  Ireland. 
The  money  with  which  he  bought  the  bulbs  was  borrowed, 
and  now  he  left  Leyden  to  make  the  tour  of  Europe, 
burdened  already  with  debt,  with  one  guinea  in  his  pocket, 
and  one  clean  shirt  and  a  flute  as  his  luggage. 

Thus  on  foot  he  wandered  through  Belgium,  Germany, 
Switzerland,  Italy,  and  France.  In  the  villages  he  played 
upon  his  flute  to  pay  for  his  food  and  his  night's  lodging. 

"Yet  would  the  village  praise  my  wondrous  power, 
And  dance,  forgetful  of  the  noon-tide  hour. 
Alike  all  ages.     Dames  of  ancient  days 
Have  led  their  children  through  the  mirthful  maze, 
And  the  gay  grandsire,  skill'd  in  gestic  lore. 
Has  frisk'd  beneath  the  burthen  of  threescore."  ^ 

In  the  towns  where  no  one  listened  to  his  flute,  and 
in  Italy  where  almost  every  peasant  played  better  than  he, 
he  entered  the  colleges  and  disputed.  For  in  those  days 
many  of  the  colleges  and  monasteries  on  the  Continent 
kept  certain  daj^s  for  arguments  upon  subjects  of  philo- 
sophy "for  which,  if  the  champion  opposes  with  any 
dexterity,  he  can  gain  a  gratuity  in  money,  a  dinner,  and 
a  bed  for  one  night." 

*  The  Traveller. 


GOLDSMITH— THE  VAGABOND  527 

Thus  from  town  to  town,  from  village  to  village, 
Goldsmith  wandered,  until  at  the  end  of  a  year  he  found 
himself  back  among  his  countrymen,  penniless  and  alone 
in  London  streets. 

Here  we  have  glimpses  of  him,  a  sorry  figure  in  rusty 
black  and  tarnished  gold,  his  pockets  stuffed  with  papers, 
now  assisting  in  a  chemist's  shop,  now  practicing  as  a 
doctor  among  those  as  poor  as  himself,  now  struggling  to 
get  a  footing  in  the  realm  of  literature,  now  passing  his 
days  miserably  as  an  usher  in  a  school.  At  length  he 
gained  more  or  less  constant  work  in  writing  magazine 
articles,  reviews,  and  children's  books.  By  slow  degrees 
his  name  became  known.  He  met  Johnson  and  became 
a  member  of  his  famous  club.  It  is  said  that  the  first 
time  those  two  great  men  met  Johnson  took  special  care 
in  dressing  himself.  He  put  on  a  new  suit  of  clothes 
and  a  newly  powdered  wig.  When  asked  by  a  friend 
why  he  was  so  particular  he  replied,  "Why,  sir,  I  hear 
that  Goldsmith  is  a  very  great  sloven,  and  justifies  his 
disregard  for  cleanliness  and  decency  by  quoting  my 
example.  I  wish  this  night  to  show  him  a  better  example." 
But  although  Goldsmith  was  now  beginning  to  be  well 
known,  he  still  lived  in  poor  lodgings.  He  had  only  one 
chair,  and  when  a  visitor  came  he  was  given  the  chair 
while  Oliver  sat  on  the  window  ledge.  When  he  had 
money  he  led  an  idle,  easy  life  until  it  was  spent.  He 
was  always  generous.  His  hand  was  always  open  to  help 
others,  but  he  often  forgot  to  paj^  his  just  debts.  At 
length  one  day  his  landlady,  finding  he  could  not  pay  his 
rent,  arrested  him  for  debt. 

In  great  distress  Goldsmith  wrote  to  Johnson  begging 
him  to  come  to  his  aid.  Johnson  sent  him  a  guinea, 
promising  to  come  to  him  as  soon  as  possible.  When 
Johnson  arrived  at  Goldsmith's  lodging,  "I  perceived," 
he  says,  "that  he  had  already  changed  my  guinea,  and  had 


528  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

got  a  bottle  of  Madeira  and  a  glass  before  him.  I  put  the 
cork  into  the  bottle,  desired  him  to  be  calm,  and  began 
to  talk  to  him  of  the  means  by  which  he  might  be  extri- 
cated. He  then  told  me  that  he  had  a  novel  ready  for 
the  press,  which  he  produced  to  me.  I  looked  into  it, 
and  saw  its  merits,  told  the  landlady  I  should  soon  return, 
and  having  gone  to  a  bookseller  sold  it  for  sixty  pounds. 
I  brought  Goldsmith  the  money,  and  he  discharged  his 
rent,  not  without  rating  his  landlady  in  high  tone  for 
having  used  him  so  ill." 

The  novel  which  thus  set  Goldsmith  free  for  the 
moment  was  the  famous  Vica?'  of  Wakefield.  "There  are 
an  hundred  faults  in  this  thing,"  says  Goldsmith  himself, 
and  if  we  agree  with  him  there  we  also  agree  with  him 
when  he  goes  on  to  say,  "and  an  hundred  things  might 
be  said  to  prove  them  beauties.  But  it  is  needless.  A 
book  may  be  amusing  with  numerous  errors,  or  it  may 
be  very  dull  without  a  single  absurdity.  The  hero  of 
this  piece  unites  in  himself  the  three  greatest  characters 
upon  earth:  he  is  a  priest,  an  husbandman,  and  the  father 
of  a  famity.  He  is  drawn  as  ready  to  teach,  and  ready 
to  obey:  as  simple  in  affluence,  and  majestic  in  adversity." 
When  we  have  made  the  acquaintance  of  the  Vicar  we 
find  ourselves  the  richer  for  a  lifelong  friend.  His  gentle 
dignitj^  his  simple  faith,  his  sly  and  tender  humor,  all 
make  us  love  him. 

In  the  Vicar  of  Wakefield  Goldsmith  drew  for  us  a 
picture  of  quiet,  fireside  family  life  such  as  no  one  before, 
or  perhaps  since,  has  drawn.  Yet  he  himself  was  a  home- 
less man.  Since  a  boy  of  sixteen  he  had  been  a  wanderer, 
a  lonely  vagabond,  dwelling  beneath  stranger  roofs. 
But  it  was  the  memory  of  his  childish  days  that  made  it 
possible  for  him  to  write  such  a  book,  and  in  learning  to 
know  and  love  gentle  Dr.  Primrose  we  learn  to  know 
Oliver's  father,  Charles  Goldsmith. 


CHAPTER  LXXI 

GOLDSMITH— "THE   VICAR   OF   WAKEFIELD" 

"I  CHOSE  my  wife,"  says  Dr.  Primrose  in  the  beginning 
of  the  book,  "as  she  did  her  wedding  gown,  not  for  a  fine, 
glossy  surface,  but  such  quahties  as  would  wear  well.  To 
do  her  justice,  she  was  a  good-natured,  notable  woman; 
and  as  for  breeding,  there  were  few  county  ladies  who 
could  show  more.  She  could  read  any  English  book 
without  much  spelling;  but  for  pickling,  preserving,  and 
cooking,  none  could  excel  her.  She  prided  herself  also 
upon  being  an  excellent  contriver  in  housekeeping; 
though  I  could  never  find  that  we  grew  richer  with  her 
contrivances." 

Of  his  children  he  says,  "Our  eldest  son  was  named 
George,  after  his  uncle,  who  left  us  ten  thousand  pounds. 
Our  second  child,  a  girl,  I  intended  to  call,  after  her  aunt, 
Grissel;  but  my  wife,  who  had  been  reading  romances, 
insisted  upon  her  being  called  Olivia.  In  less  than  another 
year  we  had  another  daughter,  and  now  I  was  determined 
that  Grissel  should  be  her  name;  but  a  rich  relation 
taking  a  fancy  to  stand  god-mother,  the  girl  was  by  her 
directions  called  Sophia;  so  that  we  had  two  romantic 
names  in  the  family;  but  I  solemnly  protest  I  had  no 
hand  in  it.  JNIoses  was  our  next;  and,  after  an  interval 
of  twelve  years,  we  had  two  sons  more."  These  two 
youngest  boys  were  called  Dick  and  Bill. 

This  is  the  family  we  learn  to  know  in  the  "Vicar." 
When    the    story  opens    Olivia   is   just    eighteen,    Sophia 

529 


530  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

seventeen,  and  they  are  both  very  beautiful  girls.  At 
first  Dr.  Primrose  is  well  oif  and  lives  comfortably  in  a 
fine  house,  but  before  the  story  goes  far  he  loses  all  his 
money,  and  is  obliged  to  go  with  his  family  to  a  poor 
living  in  another  part  of  the  country.  Here,  instead  of 
their  handsome  house,  they  have  a  tiny  four-roomed 
cottage,  with  whitewashed  walls  and  thatched  roof,  for 
a  home.  It  is  a  very  quiet  country  life  which  they  have 
now  to  live,  and  yet  when  you  come  to  read  the  book  you 
will  find  that  quite  a  number  of  exciting  things  happen 
to  them. 

The  dear  doctor  soon  settles  down  to  his  changed 
life,  but  his  wife  and  her  beautiful  daughters  try  hard  to 
be  as  fine  as  they  were  before,  and  as  grand,  if  not  grander, 
than  their  neighbors.  This  desire  leads  to  not  a  few 
of  their  adventures.  Among  other  things  they  decide 
to  have  their  portraits  painted.  This  is  how  Dr.  Primrose 
tells  of  it:  "]My  wife  and  daughters  happening  to  return 
a  visit  to  neighbour  Flamborough's,  found  that  family 
had  lately  got  their  pictures  drawn  by  a  limner,  who 
travelled  the  country,  and  took  likenesses  for  fifteen 
shillings  a-head.  As  this  family  and  ours  had  long  a  sort 
of  rivalry  in  point  of  taste,  our  spirit  took  the  alarm  at 
this  stolen  march  upon  us;  and,  notwithstanding  all  I 
could  say,  and  I  said  much,  it  was  resolved  that  we  should 
have  our  pictures  done  too. 

"Having  therefore  engaged  the  limner  (for  what 
could  I  do?)  our  next  deliberation  was,  to  show  the 
superiority  of  our  taste  in  the  attitudes.  As  for  our 
neighbour's  family,  there  were  seven  of  them;  and  they 
were  drawn  with  seven  oranges,  a  thing  quite  out  of  taste, 
no  variety  in  life,  no  composition  in  the  world.  We 
desired  to  have  something  in  a  higher  style,  and  after 
many  debates,  at  length  came  to  a  unanimous  resolution, 
of  being  drawn  together,   in   one   large  historical   family- 


"THE  VICAR  OF  WAKEFIELD"  531 

piece.  This  would  be  cheaper,  since  one  frame  would  serve 
for  all,  and  it  would  be  infinitely  more  genteel;  for  all 
families  of  any  taste  were  now  drawn  in  the  same  manner. 

"As  we  did  not  immediately  recollect  an  historical 
subject  to  hit  us,  we  were  contented  each  with  being 
drawn  as  independent  historical  figures.  My  wife  desn-ed 
to  be  represented  as  Venus,  and  the  painter  was  instructed 
not  to  be  too  frugal  of  his  diamonds  in  her  stomacher 
and  hair.  Her  two  little  ones  were  to  be  as  cupids  by 
her  side;  while  I  in  my  gown  and  band,  was  to  present 
her  with  my  books  on  the  Whistonian  controversy. 
Olivia  would  be  drawn  as  an  amazon,  sitting  upon  a  bank 
of  flowers,  dressed  in  a  green  Joseph,  ^  richly  laced  with 
gold,  and  a  whip  in  her  hand.  Sophia  was  to  be  a 
shepherdess,  with  as  many  sheep  as  the  painter  could  put 
in  for  nothing;  and  JNIoses  was  to  be  dressed  out  with  a 
hat  and  white  feather. 

"Our  taste  so  much  pleased  the  Squire  that  he  insisted 
on  being  put  in  as  one  of  the  family,  in  the  character  of 
Alexander  the  Great,  at  Olivia's  feet.  This  was  considered 
by  us  all  as  an  indication  of  his  desire  to  be  introduced 
into  the  family;  not  could  we  refuse  his  request.  The 
painter  was  therefore  set  to  work;  and  as  he  wrought 
with  assiduity  and  expedition,  in  less  than  four  days  the 
whole  was  completed.  The  piece  was  large;  and  it  must 
be  owned  he  did  not  spare  his  colours;  for  which  my  wife 
gave  him  great  encomiums. 

"We  were  all  perfectly  satisfied  with  his  performance; 
but  an  unfortunate  circumstance  had  not  occurred  until 
the  picture  was  finished,  which  now  struck  us  with  dismay. 
It  was  so  very  large,  that  we  had  no  place  in  the  house  to 
fix  it.  How  we  all  came  to  disregard  so  material  a  point 
is  inconceivable;  but  certain  it  is,  we  had  been  all  greatly 
remiss.     The  picture,  therefore,  instead  of  gratifying  our 

'  A  coat  with  capes  worn  by  ladies  in  the  eighteenth  century   for  riding. 


532  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

vanity,  as  we  hoped,  leaned,  in  a  most  mortifying  manner, 
against  the  kitchen  wall,  where  the  canvas  was  stretched 
and  painted,  much  too  large  to  be  got  through  any  of  the 
doors,  and  the  jest  of  all  our  neighbours.  One  compared 
it  to  Robinson  Crusoe's  long-boat,  too  large  to  be  removed; 
another  thought  it  more  resembled  a  reel  in  a  bottle; 
some  wondered  how  it  could  be  got  o^it,  but  still  more 
were  amazed  how  it  ever  got  in." 

For  the  rest  of  the  troubles  and  adventures  of  the  good 
Vicar  and  his  family  you  must  go  to  the  book  itself.  In 
the  end  all  comes  right,  and  we  leave  the  Vicar  surrounded 
by  his  family  with  Dick  and  Bill  sitting  on  his  knee.  "I 
had  nothing  now  this  side  the  grave  to  wait  for,"  he  says; 
"all  my  cares  were  over;  my  pleasure  was  unspeakable." 
Even  if  you  do  not  at  first  understand  all  of  this  book  I 
think  it  will  repay  you  to  read  it,  for  on  almost  every  page 
you  will  find  touches  of  gentle  humor.  We  feel  that 
no  one  but  a  man  of  simple  childlike  heart  could  have 
written  such  a  book,  and  when  we  have  closed  it  we  feel 
better  and  happier  for  having  read  it. 

But  delightful  though  we  find  the  Vicar  of  Wakefield, 
the  bookseller  who  bought  it  did  not  think  highly  enough 
of  it  to  publish  it  at  once.  Meanwhile  Goldsmith  published 
a  poem  called  The  Traveller.  His  own  wanderings  on  the 
Continent  gave  him  the  subject  for  this  poem,  for  Gold- 
smith, like  jMilton,  put  something  of  himself  into  all  his 
best  works.  The  Traveller  was  such  a  success  that  the 
bookseller  thought  it  worth  while  to  publish  the  Vicar  of 
Wakefield. 

Goldsmith  was  now  famous,  but  he  was  still  poor. 
He  lived  in  a  miserable  garret  doing  all  manner  of  literary 
work  for  bread.  Among  the  things  he  wrote  was  a  play 
called  The  Good  Natured  Man.  It  was  a  success,  and 
brought  him  in  £500. 

Goldsmith  now  left  his  garret,  took  a  fine  set  of  rooms, 


"THE  VICAR  OF  WAKEFIELD"  533 

furnished  them  grandly,  and  gave  dinner-parties  and  card- 
parties  to  his  friends.  These  were  the  days  of  Goldy's 
sjilendor.  He  no  longer  footed  it  in  the  great  world  in 
rustj^  black  and  tarnished  gold,  but  in  blue  silk  breeches, 
and  coat  wath  silken  linings  and  golden  buttons.  He 
dined  with  great  people;  he  strutted  in  innocent  vanity, 
delighted  to  shine  in  the  world,  to  see  and  be  seen,  although 
in  Johnson's  company  he  could  never  really  shine.  Sam 
was  a  great  talker,  and  it  was  said  Goldsmith  "wrote  like  an 
angel  and  spoke  like  poor  Poll."  His  friends  called  him 
Doctor,  although  where  he  took  his  medical  degree  no  one 
knows,  and  he  certainly  had  no  other  degree  given  to  him 
as  an  honor  as  Johnson  had.  So  Johnson  was  Dr.  major, 
Goldsmith  only  Dr.  minor. 

But  soon  these  days  of  wealth  were  over;  soon  Gold- 
smith's money  was  all  spent,  and  once  again  he  had  to 
sit  down  to  grinding  work.  He  wrote  many  things,  but 
the  next  great  work  he  published  was  another  poem.  The 
Deserted  Village. 

The  Deserted  Village,  like  The  Traveller,  is  written  in 
the  heroic  couplet  which,  since  the  days  of  Dryden,  had 
held  its  ground  as  the  best  form  of  English  poetry.  In 
these  poems  the  couplet  has  reached  its  A^ery  highest  level, 
for  although  his  rimes  are  smooth  and  polished  Gold- 
smith has  wrought  into  them  something  of  tender  grace 
and  pathos  which  sets  them  above  the  diamond-like  glitter 
of  Pope's  lines.  His  couplets  are  transformed  by  the 
Celtic  touch. 

The  poem  tells  the  story  of  a  village  which  had  once 
been  happy  and  flourishing,  but  which  is  now  quite  deserted 
and  fallen  to  ruins.  The  village  is  thought  by  some  people 
to  have  been  Lissoy,  where  Oliver  had  lived  as  a  boy,  but 
others  think  this  cannot  be,  for  they  say  no  Irish  village 
was  ever  so  peaceful  and  industrious  as  Goldsmith  pictures 
his  village  to  have   been.     But  we  must  remember  that 


534  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

the  poet  had  not  seen  his  home  since  childhood,  and  that 
he  looked  back  upon  it  through  the  golden  haze  of  memory. 
It  is  in  this  poem  that  we  have  the  picture  of  Oliver's  old 
schoolmaster  which  I  have  already  given  you.  Here,  too, 
we  have  a  picture  of  the  kindly  village  parson  who  may 
be  taken  both  from  Oliver's  father  and  from  his  brother 
Henry.  Probably  he  had  his  brother  most  in  mind,  for 
Henry  Goldsmith  had  but  lately  died,  "and  I  loved  him 
better  than  most  other  men,"  said  the  poet  sadly  in  the 
dedication  of  this  poem — 

"Near  yonder  copse,  where  once  the  garden  smiled. 

And  still  where  manj^  a  garden  flower  grows  wild; 

There,  where  a  few  torn  shrubs  the  place  disclose. 

The  village  preacher's  modest  mansion  rose. 

A  man  he  was  to  all  the  country  dear, 

And  passing  rich  with  forty  pounds  a  year; 

Remote  from  towns  he  ran  his  godly  race, 

Nor  e'er  had  changed,  nor  wish'd  to  change,  his  place: 

Unpractis'd  he  to  fawn,  or  seek  for  power. 

By  doctrines  fashion'd  to  the  varying  hour; 

Far  other  aims  his  heart  had  learn'd  to  prize. 

More  skill'd  to  raise  the  wretched  than  to  rise. 

His  house  was  known  to  all  the  vagrant  train; 

He  chid  their  wand'rings,  but  relieved  their  pain: 

The  long-remember'd  beggar  was  his  guest. 

Whose  beard  descending  swept  his  aged  breast; 

The  ruin'd  spendthrift,  now  no  longer  proud, 

Claim'd  kindred  there,  and  had  his  claims  allow'd; 

The  broken  soldier,  kindly  bade  to  stay. 

Sat  by  his  fire,  and  talk'd  the  night  away. 

Wept  o'er  his  wounds,  or,  tales  of  sorrow  done, 

Shoulder'd  his  crutch,  and  showed  how  fields  were  won. 

Pleased  with  his  guests,  the  good  man  learn'd  to  glow. 

And  quite  forgot  their  vices  in  their  woe; 

Careless  their  merits   or  their   faults  to  scan. 

His  pity  gave  ere  charity  began. 

Thus  to  relieve  the  wretched  was  his  pride. 

And  ev'n  his  failings  lean'd  to  virtue's  side; 

But  in  his  duty  prompt,  at  every  call, 

He  watch'd  and  wept,  he  pray'd  and  felt  for  all; 


"THE  VICAR  OF  WAKEFIELD"  535 

At  church,  with  meek  and  unaffected  grace. 

His  looks  adorn'd  the  venerable  place; 

Truth  from  his  lips  prevail'd  with  double  sway, 

And  fools,  who  came  to  scoff,  remain'd  to  pray. 

The  service  past,  around  the  pious  man. 

With  steady  zeal,  each  honest  rustic  ran; 

Ev'n  children  followed  with  endearing  wile, 

And  pluck'd  his  gown,  to  share  the  good  man's  smile. 

His  ready  smile  a  parent's  warmth  exprest; 

Their  welfare  pleased  him,  and  their  cares  distrest: 

To  them  his  heart,  his  love,  his  griefs  were  given. 

But  all  his  serious  thoughts  had  rest  in  heaven. 

As  some  tall  cliff  that  lifts  its  awful  form, 

Swells  from  the  vale,  and  midway  leaves  the  storm, 

Though  round  its  breast  the  rolling  clouds  are  spread. 

Eternal  sunshine  settles  on  its  head." 

Goldsmith's  last  great  work  was  a  comedy  named 
She  Stoops  to  Conquer.  It  is  said  that  the  idea  for  this 
play  was  given  to  him  by  something  which  happened  to 
himself  when  a  boy. 

The  last  time  that  Goldsmith  returned  home  from 
school  he  made  his  journey  on  horseback.  The  horse 
was  borrowed  or  hired,  but  he  had  a  guinea  in  his  pocket, 
and  he  felt  very  grown  up  and  grand.  He  had  to  spend 
one  night  on  the  way,  and  as  evening  came  on  he  asked 
a  passing  stranger  to  direct  him  to  the  best  house,  meaning 
the  best  in  the  neighborhood.  The  stranger  happened 
to  be  the  village  wag,  and  seeing  the  schoolboy  swagger, 
and  the  manly  airs  of  sixteen,  he,  in  fun,  directed  him  to 
the  squire's  house.  There  the  boy  arrived,  handed  over  his 
horse  with  a  lordly  air  to  a  groom,  marched  into  the  house 
and  ordered  supper  and  a  bottle  of  wine.  In  the  manner 
of  the  times,  in  drinking  his  wine  he  invited  his  landlord 
to  join  him  as  a  real  grown-up  man  might  have  done. 
The  squire  saw  the  joke  and  fell  in  with  it,  and  not 
until    next    morning    did    the    boy    discover    his    mistake. 


536  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  comedy  founded  on  this  adventure  was  a  great 
success,  and  no  wonder,  for  it  bubbles  over  with  fun  and 
laughter.  Some  day  you  will  read  the  play,  perhaps  too, 
you  may  see  it  acted,  for  it  is  still  sometimes  acted.  In 
any  case  it  makes  very  good  reading. 

But  Goldsmith  did  not  long  enjoy  the  new  fame  this 
comedy  brought  him.  In  the  spring  of  1774,  less  than  a 
year  after  it  appeared,  the  kindly  spendthrift  author  lay 
dead.    He  was  onlj^  forty-five. 

The  beginning  of  Goldsmith's  life  had  been  a  struggle 
with  poverty;  the  end  was  a  struggle  with  debt.  By  his 
writing  he  made  what  was  in  those  days  a  good  deal  of 
money,  but  he  could  not  keep  it.  To  give  him  money 
was  like  pouring  water  into  a  sieve.  "Is  your  mind  at 
ease,"  asked  his  doctor  as  he  lay  dying.  "No,  it  is  not," 
answered  Goldsmith.     Those  were  his  last  words. 

"Of  poor  dear  Dr.  Goldsmith,"  wrote  Johnson,  "there 
is  little  to  be  told  more  than  the  papers  have  made  public. 
He  died  of  a  fever,  made,  I  am  afraid,  more  violent  by 
uneasiness  of  mind.  His  debts  began  to  be  heavy,  and 
all  his  resources  were  exhausted.  Sir  Joshua  ^  is  of  opinion 
that  he  owed  not  less  than  two  thousand  pounds.  Was 
ever  poet  so  trusted  before?" 

Goldsmith  was  buried  in  the  graveyard  of  the  Temple 
Church,  but  his  tomb  is  unmarked,  and  where  he  lies  no 
one  knows.  His  sorrowing  friends,  however,  placed  a 
tablet  to  his  memory  in  Westminster,  so  that  his  name 
at  least  is  recorded  upon  the  roll  of  the  great  dead  who 
lie  gathered  there. 

BOOK  TO  READ 

The   Vicar  of  Wakefield    (Everyman's  Library). 

^  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds,  the  famous  painter. 


CHAPTER  LXXII 

BURNS— THE    PLOWMAN   POET 

Should  auld  acquaintance  be  forgot^ 
And  never  brought  to  min'? 

Should  auld  acquaintance  be  forgot, 
And  days  o'  lang  syne? 

For  auld  lang  syne,  my  dear. 
For  auld  lang  syne, 

We'll  tak  a  cup  o'  kindness  yet. 
For  auld  lang  syne. 

We  twa  hae  run  about  the  braes. 

And  pu'd  the  gowans  fine; 
But  we've  wander'd  mony  a  weary  foot. 

Sin  auld  lang  syne. 

For  auld  lang  syne,  etc. 

We  twa  hae  paidl't  1'  the  burn, 
Frae  mornin'  sun  till  dine:  ^ 

But  seas  between  us  braid  hae  roar'd. 
Sin  auld  lang  syne. 

For  auld  lang  syne,  etc. 

And  here's   a  hand,  my  trusty  fiere,  ^ 

And  gie's  a  hand  o'  thine; 
And  we'll  tak  a  right  guid-willie  waught,* 

For  auld  lang  syne. 

For  auld  lang  syne,  etc. 


*  Dinner.  *  Companion.  » Drink. 

537 


538  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  surely  ye'll  be  your  pint-stowp/ 

And  surely  I'll  be  mine; 
And  we'll  tak  a  cup  o'  kindness  yet. 

For  auld  lang  syne. 

For  auld  lang  syne,  my  dear. 

For  auld  lang  syne, 
We'll  tak  a  cup  o'  kindness  yet, 

For  auld  lang  syne. 

No  song,  perhaps,  is  so  familiar  to  English-speaking  peo- 
ple as  that  with  which  this  chapter  begins.  In  the  back 
woods  of  Canada,  in  far  Australia,  on  the  wide  South 
African  veldt,  wherever  English-speaking  people  meet 
and  gather,  they  join  hands  to  sing  that  song.  To  the 
merriest  gathering  it  comes  as  a  fitting  close.  It  is  the 
hymn  of  home,  of  treasured  friendships,  and  of  old  mem- 
ories, just  as  "God  save  the  King"  is  the  hymn  of  loyalty, 
and  yet  it  is  written  in  Scots,  which  English  tongues  can 
hardly  pronounce,  and  many  words  of  which  to  English 
ears  hardly  carry  a  meaning.  But  the  j^laintive  melody 
and  the  pathetic  force  of  the  rhythm  grip  the  heart. 
There  is  no  need  to  understand  every  word  of  this  "glad 
kind  greeting"  ^  any  more  than  there  is  need  to  under- 
stand what  some  great  musician  means  by  every  note 
which  his  violin  sings  forth. 

The  writer  of  that  song  was,  like  Caedmon  long  ago, 
a  son  of  the  soil,  he,  too,  was  a  "heaven-taught  plough- 
man.    ^ 

While  Goldsmith  lay  a-dying  in  London,  in  the  breezy 
Scottish  Lowlands  a  big  rough  lad  of  fifteen  called  Robert 
Burns  was  following  his  father's  plow  by  day,  poring 
over  Shakespeare,  the  Spectator,  and  Pope's  Homer,  of 
nights,  not  knowing  that  in  years  to  come  he  was  to  be 
remembered  as  our  greatest  song  writer.     Robert  was  the 

*  Measure.  *  Carlyle.  '  Henry   Mackenzie. 


rMAN  POET  539 

Burns  had  been  farmer  folk 
Im  Burns  had  fallen  on  evil 
home  he  drifted  to  Ayrshire, 
|ge  of  Alloway  as  a  gardener. 

built  himself  a  mud  cottage. 

"  and  a  kitchen,  whitewashed 

kitclien  there  was  a  fireplace, 

|d,  and  little  else  beyond  the 

in  the  wild  January  weather 
b.     Scarcely  a  week  later,  one 

'rail  home  was  blown  in.  So 
hied  as  if  the  whole  wall  might 
1,  and  the  storm,  the  baby  and 

neighbor's  house.  There  they 
Itheir  own  cottage   was  again 

pough  entry  into  the  world  for 

turns  went  on  working  as  a 
was  about  seven  he  took  a 
)hant,  and  removed  there  w^th 

|o  make  his  farm  pay,  to  feed 

his  brothers  and  sisters,  who 

him.     But,  poor  though  he 

tp  his  mind  that  his  children 

]f  Robert  went  daily  to  school, 

sent    away    somewhere    else, 

''as  left  without  any  teacher, 

Jhbors  joined  together  to  pay 

lot  pay  enough  to  give  him  a 

|d  to  stay  with  each  family  in 

a  grave-faced,  serious,  small 
Gilbert  were   the  cleverest 


540  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

scholars  in  the  httle  school.  Chief  among  their  school 
books  was  the  Bible  and  a  collection  of  English  prose  and 
verse.  It  was  from  the  last  that  Burns  first  came  to  know 
Addison's  works,  for  in  this  book  he  found  the  "Vision  of 
JNIirza"  and  other  Spectator  tales,  and  loved  them. 

Robert  had  a  splendid  memory.  In  school  hours  he 
stored  his  mind  with  the  grand  grave  tales  of  the  Bible, 
and  with  the  stately  English  of  Addison;  out  of  school 
hours  he  listened  to  the  tales  and  songs  of  an  old  woman 
who  sang  to  him,  or  told  him  stories  of  fairies  and  brownies, 
of  witches  and  warlocks,  of  giants,  enchanted  towns, 
dragons,  and  what  not.  The  first  books  he  read  out  of 
school  were  a  JLife  of  Hannibal,  the  great  Carthagenian 
general,  and  a  Life  of  Wallace,  the  great  Scottish  hero; 
this  last  being  lent  him  by  the  blacksmith.  These  books 
excited  little  Robert  so  much  that  if  ever  a  recruiting 
sergeant  came  to  his  village,  he  would  strut  up  and  down 
in  raptures  after  the  drum  and  bagpipe,  and  long  to  be 
tall  enough  to  be  a  soldier.  The  story  of  Wallace,  too, 
awoke  in  his  heart  a  love  of  Scotland  and  all  things 
Scottish,  which  remained  with  him  his  whole  life  through. 
At  times  he  would  steal  away  by  himself  to  read  the 
brave,  sad  story,  and  weep  over  the  hard  fate  of  his  hero. 
And  as  he  was  in  the  Wallace  country  he  wandered  near 
and  far  exploring  every  spot  where  his  hero  might  have 
been. 

After  a  year  or  two  the  second  schoolmaster  went  away 
as  the  other  had  done.  Then  all  the  schooling  the  Burns 
children  had  was  from  their  father  in  the  long  winter 
evenings  after  the  farm  work  for  the  day  was  over. 

And  so  the  years  went  on,  the  family  at  Mount 
Oliphant  living  a  hard  and  sparing  life.  For  years  they 
never  knew  what  it  was  to  have  meat  for  dinner,  yet  when 
Robert  was  thirteen  his  father  managed  to  send  him  and 
Gilbert  week  about  to  a  school  two  or  three  miles  away. 


THE  PLOWMAN  POET  541 

He  could  not  send  them  both  together,  for  he  could  neither 
afford  to  pay  two  fees,  nor  could  he  spare  both  boys 
at  once,  as  already  the  children  helped  with  the  farm 
work. 

At  fifteen  Robert  was  his  father's  chief  laborer.  He 
was  a  very  good  plowman,  and  no  one  in  all  the  country- 
side could  wield  the  scythe  or  the  threshing-flail  with 
so  much  skill  and  vigor.  He  worked  hard,  yet  he  found 
time  to  read,  borrowing  books  from  whoever  would  lend 
them.  Thus,  before  he  was  fifteen,  he  had  read  Shake- 
speare, and  Pope,  and  the  Spectator,  besides  a  good  many 
other  books  which  would  seem  to  most  boys  of  to-day  very 
dull  indeed.  But  the  book  he  liked  best  w^as  a  collection  of 
songs.  He  carried  it  about  with  him.  "I  pored  over  them," 
he  says,  "driving  my  cart,  or  walking  to  labour,  song  by 
song,  verse  by  verse." 

Thus  the  years  passed,  as  Burns  himself  says,  in  the 
"cheerless  gloom  of  a  hermit,  with  the  unceasing  toil  of  a 
galley-slave."  Then  when  Robert  was  about  nineteen 
his  father  made  another  move  to  the  farm  of  Lochlea, 
about  ten  miles  off.  It  was  a  larger  and  better  farm, 
and  for  three  or  four  years  the  family  lived  in  comfort. 
In  one  of  Burns's  own  poems,  The  Cotter  s  Saturday 
Night,  we  get  some  idea  of  the  simple  home  life  these  kindly 
God-fearing  peasants  led — 

"November  chill  blaws  loud  wi'  angry  sugh;  ^ 

The  short'ning  winter-day  is  near  a  close; 
The  miry  beasts  retreating  frae  the  pleugh; 

The  black'ning  trains  o'  craws  to  their  repose; 

The  toil-worn  Cotter  frae  his  labour  goes. 
This  night  his  weekly  moil  is  at  an  end, 

Collects  his  spades,  his  mattocks,  and  his  hoes, 
Hoping  the  morn  in  ease  and  rest  to  spend. 
And  weary,  o'er  the  moor,  his  course  does  hameward  bend. 

*  Whistling  sound. 


542  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"At  length  his  lonely  cot  appears  in  view^ 

Beneath  the  shelter  of  an  aged  tree; 
Th'  expectant  wee-things,  toddlin,  stacher  "^  through 

To  meet  their  dad,  wi'  flichterin  ^  noise  and  glee. 

His  wee  bit  ingle,  blinkin  bonnily, 
His  clean  hearth-stane,  his  thriftie  wifie's  smile. 

The  lisping  infant  prattling  on  his  knee. 
Does  a'  his  weary  carking  cares  beguile, 
An'  makes  him  quite  forget  his  labour  and  his  toil. 

"Belyve,^  the  elder  bairns  come  drapping  in, 
At  service  out,  amang  the  farmers  roun' ; 

Some  ca'  the  pleugh,  some  herd,  some  tentie  *  rin 
A  cannie  ^  errand  to  a  neebor  town : 
Their  eldest  hope,  their  Jenny,  woman  grown. 

In  youthfu'  bloom,  love  sparkling  in  her  e'e. 

Comes  hame,  perhaps,  to  show  a  braw  new  gown. 

Or  deposite  her  sair-won  penny-fee,® 

To  help  her  parents  dear,  if  they  in  hardship  be. 

"With  joy  unfeign'd,  brothers  and  sisters  meet, 

An'  each  for  other's  weelf are  kindly  spiers :  ^ 
The  social  hours,   swift-wing'd,   unnotic'd,  fleet; 

Each  tells  the  uncos  ^  that  he  sees  or  hears ; 

The  parents,  partial,  eye  their  hopeful  years; 
Anticipation  forward  points  the  view. 

The  mother,  wi'  her  needle  and  her  sheers, 
Gars  auld  claes  look  amaist  as  weel's  the  new:^ 
The  father  mixes  a*  wi'  admonition  due. 


"The  cheerfu'  supper  done,  wi'  serious  face. 
They,  round  the  ingle,  form  a  circle  wide; 
The  sire  turns  o'er,  wi'  patriarchal  grace, 
The  big  ha'-Bible,  ance  his  father's  pride: 
His  bonnet  rev'rently  is  laid  aside, 

*  Stagger.  '  To  run  with  outspread  arms. 
'In  a  little.  ^Carefully. 

*  Not  difBcult.  '  Wages  paid  in  money. 
'  Asks  after.                                      *  Strange  things. 
•Makes  old  clothes  look  almost  as  good  as  new. 


THE  PLOWMAN  POET  543 

His  lyart  hafFets  ^  wearing  thin  an'  bare; 

Those  strains  that  once  did  sweet  in  Zion  glide. 
He  wales  ^  a  portion  with  judicious  care; 
And  "Let  us  worship  God!"  he  says,  with  solemn  air. 


Then  homeward  all  take  ofF  their  sev'ral  way ; 

The  youngling  cottagers  retire  to  rest: 
The  parent-pair  their  secret  homage  pay. 

And  proffer  up  to  Heaven  the  warm  request, 

That  He  who  stills  the  raven's  clam'rous  nest, 
And  decks  the  lily  fair  in  flow'ry  pride. 

Would,  in  the  way  His  wisdom  sees  the  best, 
For  them  and  for  their  little  ones  provide; 
But,  chiefly,  in  their  hearts  with  grace  divine  preside." 

As  Robert  grew  to  be  a  man  the  changes  in  his  somber 
life  were  few.  But  once  he  spent  a  summer  on  the  coast 
learning  how  to  measure  and  survey  land.  In  this  he 
made  good  progress.  "But,"  he  says,  "I  made  a  greater 
progress  in  the  knowledge  of  mankind."  For  it  was  a 
smuggling  district.  Robert  came  to  know  the  men  who 
carried  on  the  unlawful  trade,  and  so  was  present  at  many 
a  wild  and  riotous  scene,  and  saw  men  in  new  lights.  He 
had  already  begun  to  write  poetry,  now  he  began  to  write 
letters  too.  He  did  not  write  with  the  idea  alone  of 
giving  his  friends  news  of  him.  He  wrote  to  improve 
his  power  of  language.  He  came  across  a  book  of  letters 
of  the  wits  of  Queen  Anne's  reign,  and  these  he  pored  over, 
eager  to  make  his  own  style  as  good. 

When  Robert  was  twenty-two  he  again  left  home. 
This  time  he  went  to  the  little  seaport  town  of  Irvine 
to  learn  flax  dressing.  For  on  the  farm  the  father  and 
brothers  had  begun  to  grow  flax,  and  it  was  thought  well 
that  one  of  them  should  know  how  to  prepare  it  for 
spinning. 

^The  gray  hair  on  his  temples.  'Chooses. 


544  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Here  Robert  got  into  evil  company  and  trouble. 
He  sinned  and  repented  and  sinned  again.  We  find  him 
writing  to  his  father,  "As  for  this  world,  I  despair  of  ever 
making  a  figure  in  it.  I  am  not  formed  for  the  bustle  of 
the  busy,  nor  the  flutter  of  the  gay.  I  shall  never  again 
be  capable  of  entering  into  such  scenes."  Burns  knew 
himself  to  be  a  man  of  faults.  The  knowledge  of  his  own 
weakness,  perhaps,  made  him  kindly  to  others.  In  one  of 
his  poems  he  wrote — 

"Then  gently  scan  your  brother  man. 

Still  gentler   sister  woman; 
Tho'  they  may  gang  a  kennin  wrang,^ 

To  step  aside  is  human: 
One  point  must  still  be  greatly  dark. 

The  moving  why  they  do  it; 
And  just  as  lamely  can  ye  mark 

How  far  perhaps  they  rue  it. 

"Who  made  the  heart,  'tis  He  alone 

Decidedly  can  try  us: 
He  knows  each  chord,  its  various  tone. 

Each  spring,  its  various  bias: 
Then  at  the  balance  let's  be  mute. 

We  never  can  adjust  it; 
What's  done  we  partly  may  compute. 

But  know  not  what's  resisted." 

Bad  fortune,  too,  followed  Burns.  The  shop  in  which 
he  was  engaged  was  set  on  fire,  and  he  was  left  "like  a 
true  poet,  not  worth  a  sixpence." 

So  leaving  the  troubles  and  temptations  of  Irvine 
behind,  he  carried  home  a  smirched  name  to  his  father's 
house. 

Here,  too,  troubles  were  gathering.  Bad  harvests 
were  followed  by  money  difficulties,  and,  weighed  down 
with  all  his  cares,  William  Burns  died.  The  brothers 
had  already  taken  another  farm  named  Mossgiel.     Soon 

*  A  very  little  wrong. 


THE  PLOWMAN  POET  545 

after  the  father's  death  the  whole  family  went  to  live 
there. 

Robert  meant  to  settle  down  and  be  a  regular  farmer. 
"Come,  go  to,  I  will  be  wise,"  he  said.  He  read  farming 
books  and  bought  a  little  diary  in  which  he  meant  to  write 
down  farming  notes.  But  the  farming  notes  often  turned 
out  to  be  scraps  of  poetry. 

The  next  four  years  of  Burns's  life  were  eventful 
years,  for  though  he  worked  hard  as  he  guided  the  plow 
or  swung  the  scythe,  he  wove  songs  in  his  head.  And  as 
he  followed  his  trade  year  in  year  out,  from  summer  to 
winter,  from  winter  to  summer,  he  learned  all  the  secrets 
of  the  earth  and  sky,  of  the  hedgerow  and  the  field. 

How  everything  that  was  beautiful  and  tender  and 
helpless  in  nature  appealed  to  him  we  know  from  his 
poems.  There  is  the  field  mouse — the  "wee  sleekit,^ 
cow'rin',  tim'rous  beastie,"  whose  nest  he  turned  up  and 
destroyed  in  his  November  plowing.  "Poor  little  mouse, 
I  would  not  hurt  you,"  he  says — 

"Thy  wee  bit  liousie,  too,  in  ruin ; 
Its  silly  wa's  the  win's  are  strewin' !" 

And  thou  poor  mousie  art  turned  out  into  the  cold,  bleak, 
winter  weather! — 

"But,  Mousie,  thou  art  no  thy  lane. 
In  proving  foresight  may  be  vain ; 
The  best  laid  schemes  o'  mice  an'  men. 

Gang  aft  agley,^ 
An'  lea'e  us  nought  but  grief  and  pain 
For  promis'd  joy." 

It  goes  to  his  heart  to  destroy  the  early  daisies  with  the 
plow — 

"Wee,  modest,  crimson-tipped  flow'r, 
Thou's  met  me  in  an  evil  hour; 

*  Smooth.  '  Go  often  wrong. 


546  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

For  I  maun  crush  amang  the  stoure 
Thy  slender  stem. 

To  spare  thee  now  is  past  my  pow'r. 
Thou  bonnie  gem. 

"Alas !  it's  no  thy  neebor  sweet. 
The  bonnie  lark,  companion  meet. 
Bending  thee  'mang  the  dewy  weet, 

Wi'   spreckl'd   breast. 
When  upward  springing,  blythe,  to  greet 

The   purpling  east. 

"Cauld  blew  the  bitter-biting  North 
Upon  thy  early,  humble  birth; 
Yet  cheerfully  thou  glinted  forth 

Amid  the  storm. 
Scarce  rear'd  above  the  parent  earth 

Thy  tender  form. 

"The  flaunting  flow'rs  our  gardens  yield. 
High  shelt'ring  woods  and  wa's  maun  shield; 
But  thou,  beneath  the  random  bield  ^ 

O'  clod  or  stane. 
Adorns  the  histie  stibble-field,^ 

Unseen,  alane. 

"There,  in  thy  scanty  mantle  clad, 
Thy  snawie  bosom  sunward  spread. 
Thou  lifts  thy  unassuming  head 

In  humble  guise; 
But  now  the  share  uptears  thy  bed. 

And  low  thou  lies !" 

Burns  wrote  love  songs  too,  for  he  was  constantly  in 
love — often  to  his  discredit,  and  at  length  he  married 
Jean  Armour,  Scots  fashion,  by  writing  a  paper  saying 
that  they  were  man  and  wife  and  giving  it  to  her.  This 
was  enough  in  those  days  to  make  a  marriage.  But 
Burns  had  no  money;  the  brothers'  farm  had  not  pros- 

^  Shelter.  =»  Bare  stubble   field. 


•WEE,   MODEST,    CRIMSON  TIPPED   FLOW'R 
THOU'S  MET  ME  IN  AN  EVIL  HOUR; 
lOR    I    MAUN    CRUSH   A.MANC,   THE    STOUR 

THY   SLENDER   STEM; 
TO   SPARE   THEE    NOW    IS    PAST    M^     I'OW'R 

THOU  Ho.wrK  <;f;m  ' 


THE  PLOWMAN  POET  547 

pered,  and  Jean's  father,  a  stern  old  Scotsman,  would 
have  nothing  to  say  to  Robert,  who  was  in  his  opinion  a 
bad  man,  and  a  wild,  unstable,  penniless  rimester.  He 
made  his  daughter  burn  her  "lines,"  thus  in  his  idea  putting 
an  end  to  the  marriage. 

Robert  at  this  was  both  hurt  and  angry,  and  made 
up  his  mind  to  leave  Scotland  for  ever  and  never  see  his 
wife  and  children  more.  He  got  a  post  as  overseer  on 
an  estate  in  Jamaica,  but  money  to  pay  for  his  passage 
he  had  none.  In  order  to  get  money  some  friends  pro- 
posed that  he  should  publish  his  poems.  This  he  did, 
and  the  book  was  such  a  success  that  instead  of  going  to 
Jamaica  as  an  unknown  exile  Burns  went  to  Edinburgh 
to  be  entertained,  feted,  and  flattered  by  the  greatest  men 
of  the  day. 

All  the  fine  ladies  and  gentlemen  were  eager  to  see 
the  plowman  poet.  The  fuss  they  made  over  him  was 
enough  to  turn  the  head  of  a  lesser  man.  But  in  spite  of 
all  the  flattery.  Burns,  though  pleased  and  glad,  remained 
as  simple  as  before.  He  moved  among  the  grand  people 
in  their  silks  and  velvets  clad  in  homespun  clothes  "like 
a  farmer  dressed  in  his  best  to  dine  with  the  laird"  ^  as 
easily  as  he  had  moved  among  his  humble  friends.  He 
held  himself  with  that  proud  independence  which  later 
made  him  write — 

"Is  there  for  honest  poverty 

That  hangs  his  head,  and  a'  that? 
The  coward  slave,  we  pass  him  by, 

We  dare  be  poor  for  a'  that! 
For  a'  that,  and  a'  that, 

Our  toils  obscure,  and  a    that. 
The  rank  is  but  the  guinea  stamp. 

The  man's  the  gowd  for  a'  that. 


Scott. 


548  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"What  though  on  hamely  fare  we  dine, 

Wear  hodden  grey,  and  a'  that; 
Gie  fools  their  silks,  and  knaves  their  wine, 

A  man's  a  man  for  a'  that: 
For  a'  that  and  a'  that, 

Their  tinsel  show,  and  a'  that; 
The  honest  man,  though  e'er  sae  poor. 

Is  king  o'  men  for  a'  that." 

After  spending  a  brilliant  winter  in  Edinburgh,  Burns 
set  off  on  several  tours  through  his  native  land,  visiting 
many  of  the  places  famous  in  Scottish  history.  But,  as 
the  months  went  on,  he  began  to  be  restless  in  his  seeming 
idleness.  The  smiles  of  the  great  world  would  not  keep 
hunger  from  the  door;  he  feared  that  his  fame  might 
be  only  a  nine  days'  wonder,  so  he  decided  to  return  to 
his  farming.  He  took  a  farm  a  few  miles  from  Dumfries, 
and  although  since  he  had  been  parted  from  his  Jean  he 
had  forgotten  her  time  and  again  and  made  love  to  many 
another,  he  and  she  were  now  married,  this  time  in  good 
truth.  From  now  onward  it  was  that  Burns  wrote  some 
of  his  most  beautiful  songs,  and  it  is  for  his  songs  that 
we  remember  him.  Some  of  them  are  his  own  entirely, 
and  some  are  founded  upon  old  songs  that  had  been 
handed  on  for  generations  by  the  people  from  father  to 
son,  but  had  never  been  written  down  until  Burns  heard 
them  and  saved  them  from  being  forgotten.  But  in  every 
case  he  left  the  song  a  far  more  beautiful  thing  than  he 
found  it.  None  of  them  perhaps  is  more  beautiful  than 
that  he  now  wrote  to  his  Jean — 

"Of  a'  the  airts  ^  the  wind  can  blaw, 
I  dearly  like  the  west, 
For  there  the  bonnie  lassie  lives. 
The  lassie  I  lo'e  best: 

^  Directions. 


THE  PLOWMAN  POET  549 

The  wild-woods  grow  and  rivers  row/ 

And  mony  a  hill  between; 
But  day  and  night  my  fancy's  flight 

Is  ever  wi'  my  Jean. 

"I  see  her  in  the  dewy  flowers, 

I  see  her  sweet  and  fair: 
I  hear  her  in  the  tunefu'  birds, 

I  hear  her  charm  the  air; 
There's  not  a  bonnie  flower  that  springs 

By  fountain,  shaw,^  or  green, 
There's  not  a  bonnie  bird  that  sings 

But  minds  me  o'  my  Jean." 

But  farming  and  song-making  did  not  seem  to  go 
together,  and  on  his  new  farm  Burns  succeeded  little 
better  than  on  any  that  he  had  tried  before.  He  thought 
to  add  to  his  livelihood  by  turning  an  excise  man,  that  is, 
an  officer  whose  work  is  to  put  down  smuggling,  to 
collect  the  duty  on  whisk}^  and  to  see  that  none  upon 
which  duty  has  not  been  paid  is  sold.  One  of  his  fine 
Edinburgh  friends  got  an  appointment  for  him,  and  he 
began  his  duties,  and  it  would  seem  fulfilled  them  well. 
But  this  mode  of  life  was  for  Burns  a  failure.  In  dis- 
charge of  his  duties  he  had  to  ride  hundreds  of  miles  in 
all  kinds  of  weathers.  He  became  worn  out  by  the 
fatigue  of  it,  and  it  brought  him  into  the  temptation  of 
drinking  too  much.  Things  went  with  him  from  bad  to 
worse,  and  at  length  he  died  at  the  age  of  thirty-six,  worn 
out  by  toil  and  sin  and  suffering. 

In  many  w^ays  his  was  a  misspent  life  "at  once  un- 
finished and  a  ruin."  ^  His  was  the  poet's  soul  bound  in 
the  body  of  clay.  He  was  an  unhappy  man,  and  we  cannot 
but  pity  him,  and  yet  remember  him  with  gratitude  for 
the  beautiful  songs  he  gave  us.  In  his  own  words  we  may 
say— 

'  Roll  =>  Wood.  » Carlyle. 


550  ENGLISH    LITERATURE 

"Is  there  a  man,  whose  judgment  clear. 
Can  others  teach  the  course  to  steer. 
Yet  runs,  himself,  life's  mad  career, 

Wild  as  the  wave? 
Here  pause — and,  through  the  starting  tear. 

Survey   this   grave." 

Burns  was  a  true  son  of  the  soil.  There  is  no  art  in 
his  songs  but  only  nature.  Apart  from  his  melody 
what  strikes  us  most  is  his  truth;  he  sang  of  what  he 
saw,  of  what  he  felt  and  knew.  He  knew  the  Scottish 
peasant  through  and  through.  Grave  and  humorous, 
simple  and  cunning,  honest  and  hypocritical,  proud  and 
independent — every  phase  of  him  is  to  be  found  in  Burns's 
poems.  He  knew  love  too;  and  in  every  phase — happy 
and  unhappy,  worthy  and  unworthy — he  sings  of  it.  But 
it  is  of  love  in  truth  that  he  sings.  Here  we  have  no  more 
the  make-believe  of  the  Elizabethan  age,  no  longer  the 
stilted  measure  of  the  Georgian.  The  day  of  the  heroic 
couplet  is  done;  with  Burns  we  come  back  to  nature. 

BOOK  TO  READ 

Selected  Works  of  Robert  Burns,  edited  by  R.  Sutherland. 

Note. — This  is  probably  the  best  selection  for  juvenile  readers. 


CHAPTER  LXXIII 

COWPER— "THE  TASK" 

While  Burns  was  weaving  his  wonderful  songs  among 
the  Lowland  hills  of  Scotland,  another  lover  of  nature  was 
telling  of  placid  English  life,  of  simple  everyday  doings, 
in  a  quiet  little  country  town  in  England.  This  man  was 
William  Cowper. 

Cowper  was  the  son  of  a  clergyman.  He  was  born  in 
1731  and  became  a  barrister,  but  it  seemed  a  profession 
for  which  he  was  little  fitted.  He  was  shy  and  morbidly 
religious,  and  he  also  liked  literature  much  better  than 
law.  Still  he  continued  his  way  of  life  until,  when  he  was 
thirty-two,  he  was  offered  a  post  as  Clerk  of  the  Journals 
of  the  House  of  Lords.  He  wished  to  accept  the  post, 
but  was  told  he  must  stand  an  examination  at  the  bar  of 
the  House  of  Lords. 

This  was  more  than  his  nervous,  sensitive  nature  could 
bear.  Rather  than  face  the  trial  he  decided  to  die. 
Three  times  he  tried  to  kill  himself.  Three  times  he 
failed.  Then  the  darkness  of  madness  closed  in  upon  him. 
Religious  terrors  seized  him,  and  for  many  months  he 
suffered  agonies  of  mind.  But  at  length  his  tortured  brain 
found  rest,  and  he  became  once  more  a  sane  man. 

Then  he  made  up  his  mind  to  leave  London,  and  all 
the  excitements  of  a  life  for  which  he  was  not  fit,  and 
after  a  few  changes  here  and  there  he  settled  down  to  a 
peaceful  life  with  a  clergyman  and  his  wife,  named  Unwin. 
And  when  after  two  years  Mr.  Unwin  died,  Cowper  still 
lived  with  his  widow.     With  her  he  moved  to  Olney  in 

551 


552  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Buckinghamshire.  It  was  here  that,  together  with  the 
curate,  John  Newton,  Cowper  wrote  the  Olney  hymns, 
many  of  which  are  still  well  loved  to-day.  Perhaps  one  of 
the  best  is  that  beginning — 

"God  moves  in  a  mysterious  way. 
His  wonders  to  perform; 
He  plants  His  footsteps  in  the  sea. 
And  rides  upon  the  storm." 

It  was  written  when  Cowper  felt  again  the  darkness 
of  insanity  closing  in  upon  him.  Once  again  he  tried  to 
end  his  life,  but  again  the  storm  passed. 

Cowper  was  already  a  man  of  nearly  fifty  when  these 
hymns  first  appeared.  Shortly  afterwards  he  published 
another  volume  of  poems  in  the  style  of  Pope. 

It  was  after  this  that  Cowper  found  another  friend 
who  brought  some  brightness  into  his  life.  Lady  Austen, 
a  widow,  took  a  house  near  Cowper  and  Mrs.  Unwin,  and 
became  a  third  in  their  friendship.  It  was  she  who  told 
Cowper  the  story  of  John  Gilpin.  The  story  tickled  his 
fancy  so  that  he  woke  in  the  night  with  laughter  over  it. 
He  decided  to  make  a  ballad  of  the  story,  and  next  day 
the  ballad  was  finished.  I  think  I  need  hardly  give  you 
any  quotation  here.    You  all  know  that — 

"John  Gilpin  was  a  citizen 
Of  credit  and  renown, 
A  train-band  captain  eke  was  he 
Of  famous  London  town." 

And  you  have  heard  his  adventures  on  the  anniversary 
of  his  wedding  day. 

John  Gilpin  was  first  published  in  a  magazine,  and 
there  it  was  seen  by  an  actor  famous  in  his  day,  who  took 
it  for  a  recitation.  It  at  once  became  a  success,  and 
thousands  of  copies  were  sold. 

It  was  Lady  Austen,  too,  who  urged  Cowper  to  his 


"THE  TASK"  553 

greatest  work,  The  Task.  She  wanted  him  to  try  blank 
verse,  but  he  objected  that  he  had  nothing  to  write  about. 
"You  can  write  upon  any  subject,"  rephed  Lady  Austen, 
"write  upon  the  sofa." 

So  Cowper  accepted  the  task  thus  set  for  him,  and 
began  to  write.  The  first  book  of  The  Task  is  called  The 
Sofa,  and  through  all  the  six  books  we  follow  the  course  of 
his  simple  country  life.  It  is  the  epic  of  simplicity,  at  once 
pathetic  and  playful.  Its  tuneful,  easy  blank  verse  never 
rises  to  the  grandeur  of  Milton's,  yet  there  are  fine  passages 
in  it.  Though  Cowper  lived  a  retired  and  uneventful 
life,  the  great  questions  of  his  day  found  an  echo  in  his 
heart.  Canada  had  been  won  and  the  American  States  lost 
when  he  wrote — 

"England,  with  all  thy  faults,  I  love  thee  still — 
My  Country !  and,  while  yet  a  nook  is  left 
Where  English  minds  and  manners  may  be  found. 
Shall  be  constrained  to  love  thee. 

Time  was  when  it  was  praise  and  boast  enough 

In  every  clime,  and  travel  where  we  might. 

That  we  were  born  her  children;  praise  enough 

To  fill  the  ambition  of  a  private  man. 

That  Chatham's  language  was   his   mother  tongue, 

And  Wolfe's  great  name  compatriot  with  his  own. 

Farewell  those  honours,  and  farewell  with  them 

The  hope  of  such  hereafter !  they  have  fallen 

Each  in  his  field  of  glory:  one  in  arms. 

And  one  in  council — Wolfe  upon  the  lap 

Of  smiling  Victory  that  moment  won. 

And  Chatham  heart-sick  of  his  country's  shame 

They  made  us  many  soldiers.     Chatham,  still 

Consulting  England's  happiness  at  home, 

Secured  it  by  an  unforgiving  frown. 

If  any  wronged  her.     Wolfe,  where'er  he  fought. 

Put  so  much  of  his  heart  into  his  act. 

That  his  example  had  a  magnet's  force, 

And  all  were  swift  to  follow  where  all  loved." 


554  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

These  lines  are  from  the  second  book  of  The  Task  called 
The  Timepiece.  The  third  is  called  The  Garden,  the  fourth 
The  Winter  Evetiirig.  There  we  have  the  well-known 
picture  of  a  quiet  evening  bj^  the  cozy  fireside.  The  post 
boy  has  come  "with  spattered  boots,  strapped  waist,  and 
frozen  locks."    He  has  brought  letters  and  the  newspaper — • 

"Now  stir  the  fire,  and  close  the  shutters  fast, 
Let  fall  the  curtains,  wheel  the  sofa  round, 
And,  while  the  bubbling  and  loud-hissng  urn 
Throws  up  a  steamy  column,  and  the  cups. 
That  cheer  but  not  inebriate,  wait  on  each. 
So  let  us  welcome  peaceful  evening  in." 

The  poem  ends  with  two  books  called  The  Winter  Morning 
Walk  and  The  Winter  Walk  at  Noon.  Though  not  grand, 
The  Task  is  worth  reading.  It  is,  too,  an  easily  read,  and 
easily  understood  poem,  and  through  it  all  we  feel  the  love 
of  nature,  the  return  to  romance  and  simplicity.  In  the 
last  book  we  see  Cowper's  love  of  animals.  There  he 
sings,  "If  not  the  virtues,  yet  the  worth,  of  brutes." 

Cowper  loved  animals  tenderly  and  understood  them 
in  a  wonderful  manner.  He  tamed  some  hares  and  made 
them  famous  in  his  verse.  And  when  he  felt  madness 
coming  upon  him  he  often  found  relief  in  his  interest  in 
these  pets.  One  of  his  poems  tells  how  Cowper  scolded 
his  spaniel  Beau  for  killing  a  little  baby  bird  "not  because 
you  were  hungry,"  says  the  poet,  "but  out  of  naughtiness." 
Here  is  Beau's  reply — 

"Sir,  when  I  flew  to  seize  the  bird 
In  spite  of  your  command, 
A  louder  voice  than  yours  I  heard. 
And  harder  to  withstand. 

"You  cried  'Forbear !' — but  in  my  breast 
A  mightier  cried  'Proceed!' — 
'Twas  nature,  sir,  whose  strong  behest 
Impelled  me  to  the  deed. 


"THE  TASK"  555 

"Yet  much  as  nature  I  respect, 
I  ventured  once  to  break 
(As  you  perhaps  may  recollect) 
Her  precept  for  your  sake; 

"And  when  your  linnet  on  a  day. 
Passing  his  prison  door. 
Had  fluttered  all  his  strength  away 
And  panting  pressed  the  floor, 

"Well  knowing  him  a  sacred  thing 
Not  destined  to  my  tooth, 
I   only   kissed  his  ruffled  wing 
And  licked  the  feathers  smooth. 

"Let  my  obedience  then  excuse 
My  disobedience  now. 
Nor  some  reproof  yourself  refuse 
From  your  aggrieved  Bow-wow; 

"If  killing  birds  be  such  a  crime 
(Which  I  can  hardly  see), 
What  think  you,  sir,  of  killing  Time 
With  verse  addressed  to  me?" 

As  Cowper's  life  went  on,  the  terrible  lapses  into 
insanity  became  more  frequent,  but  his  sweet  and  kindly- 
temper  won  him  many  friends,  and  he  still  wrote  a  great 
deal.  And  among  the  many  things  he  wrote,  his  letters 
to  his  friends  were  not  the  least  interesting.  They  are 
among  the  best  letters  in  our  language. 

Perhaps  Cowper's  greatest  accomplishment,  though 
not  his  greatest  work,  was  a  translation  of  Homer.  He 
had  never  considered  Pope's  Homer  good,  and  he  wished  to 
leave  to  the  world  a  better.  Cowper's  version  was  pub- 
lished in  1791,  and  he  fondly  believed  that  it  would  take 
the  place  of  Pope's.  But  although  Cowper's  may  be  more 
correct,  it  is  plain  and  dry,  and  while  Pope's  is  still  read 
and  remembered,  Cowper's  is  forgotten. 

Indeed,  that  Cowper  is  remembered  at  all  is  due  more 
to  his  shorter  poems  such  as  Boadicea  and  The   Wreck 


556  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  the  Royal  George,  and  chiefly,  perhaps,  to  John 
Gilpin,  which  in  its  own  way  is  a  treasure  that  we  would 
not  be  without.  Other  of  his  shorter  poems  are  full  of  a 
simple  pathos  and  gentle  humor.  The  last  he  wrote  was 
called  The  Castaway,  and  the  verse  with  which  it  ends 
describes  not  unfittingly  the  close  of  his  own  life.  For  his 
mind  sank  ever  deeper  into  the  shadow  of  madness  until 
he  died  in  April  1800— 

"No  voice  divine  the  storm  allayed, 

No   light  propitious   shone; 
When,  snatched  from  all  effectual  aid. 

We  perished,  each  alone: 
But  I  beneath  a  rougher  sea. 
And  whelmed  in  deeper  gulfs  than  he." 

Cowper  was  never  a  power  in  our  literature,  but  he 
was  a  forerunner,  "the  forerunner  of  the  great  Restoration 
of  our  liteature."  ^  and  unlike  most  forerunners  he  was 
popular  in  his  own  day.  And  although  it  is  faint,  like  the 
scent  of  forgotten  rose  leaves,  his  poetry  still  keeps  a  charm 
and  sweetness  for  those  who  will  look  for  it. 

'  Macaulay. 


CHAPTER  LXXIV 

WORDSWORTH— THE  POET  OF  NATURE 

CowPER  was  as  a  straw  blown  along  the  path;  he  had  no 
force  in  himself,  he  showed  the  direction  of  the  wind. 
Now  we  come  to  one  who  was  not  only  a  far  greater  poet, 
but  who  was  a  force  in  our  literature.  This  man  was 
William  Wordsworth.  He  was  the  apostle  of  simplicity, 
the  prophet  of  nature.  He  sang  of  the  simplest  things, 
of  the  common  happenings  of  everyday  life,  and  that  too 
a  simple  life. 

His  desire  was  to  choose  words  only  which  were  really 
used  by  men  in  everyday  talk,  "and,  at  the  same  time, 
to  throw  over  them  a  certain  colouring  of  the  imagina- 
tion." 

He  chose  to  sing  of  humble  life  because  there  men's 
thoughts  and  feelings  were  more  free  from  art  and 
restraint,  there  they  spoke  a  plainer,  more  forceful  lan- 
guage, there  they  were  in  touch  with  all  that  was  lasting  and 
true  in  Nature.  Here  then,  you  will  say,  is  the  poet  for  us, 
the  poet  who  tells  of  simple  things  in  simple  words,  such 
as  we  can  understand.  And  yet,  perhaps,  strange  as  it 
may  seem,  there  is  no  poet  who  makes  less  appeal  to  young 
minds  than  does  Wordsworth. 

In  reading  poetry,  though  we  may  not  always 
understand  every  word  of  it,  we  want  to  feel  the 
thrill  and  glamour  of  it.  And  when  Wordsworth  re- 
members  his  own  rules   and   keeps   to   them  there   is   no 

557 


558  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

glamour,    and   his    simplicity  is    apt   to   seem   to   us   mere 
silliness. 

When  we  are  very  young  we  cannot  walk  alone,  and 
are  glad  of  a  kindly  helping  hand  to  guide  our  footsteps. 
In  learning  to  read,  as  in  learning  to  walk,  it  is  at  first  well 
to  trust  to  a  guiding  hand.  And  in  learning  to  read  poetry 
it  is  at  first  well  to  use  selections  chosen  for  us  by  those 
w^iser  than  ourselves.  Later,  when  we  can  go  alone,  we 
take  a  man's  whole  work,  and  choose  for  ourselves  what 
we  will  most  love  in  it.  And  it  is  only  by  making  use 
of  this  power  of  choice  that  we  can  really  enjoy  what  is 
best.  But  of  all  our  great  writers  Wordsworth  is  perhaps 
the  last  in  the  reading  of  whose  works  we  willingly  go 
alone.  He  is  perhaps  the  writer  who  gains  most  by  being 
read  in  selections.  Indeed,  for  some  of  us  there  never 
comes  a  time  when  we  care  to  read  his  whole  works. 

For  if  we  take  his  whole  works,  at  times  we  plow 
through  pages  of  dry-as-dust  argument  where  there  is 
never  a  glimmer  of  that  beauty  which  makes  poetry  a 
joy,  till  we  grow  weary  of  it.  Then  suddenly  there 
springs  to  our  eye  a  line  of  truest  beauty  which  sets  our 
senses  atingle  with  delight,  and  all  our  labor  is  more 
than  paid.  And  if  our  great  poets  were  to  be  judged  by 
single  lines  or  single  stanzas  we  may  safely  say  that 
Wordsworth  would  be  placed  high  among  them.  He  is 
so  placed,  but  it  is  rather  by  the  love  of  the  few  than  by 
the  voice  of  the  many. 

I  am  not  trying  to  make  j^ou  afraid  of  reading  Words- 
worth, I  am  only  warning  you  that  you  must  not  go  to 
him  expecting  to  gather  flowers.  You  must  go  expecting 
to  and  willing  to  dig  for  gold.  Yet  although  Wordsworth 
gives  us  broad  deserts  of  prose  in  his  poetry,  he  himself 
knew  the  joy  of  words  in  lovely  sequence. 

He  tells  us  that  when  he  was  ten  years  old,  or  less, 
already  his  mind — 


THE  POET  OF  NATURE  559 

"With  conscious  pleasure  opened  to  the  charm 
Of  words  in  tuneful  order,  found  them  sweet 
For  their  own  sokes,  a  passion,  and  a  power; 
And  phrases  pleased  me  chosen  for  delight. 
For  pomp,  or  love."  ^ 

When  Wordsworth  first  published  his  poems  they 
were  received  with  scorn,  and  he  was  treated  with  neglect 
greater  even  than  most  great  poets  have  had  to  endure. 
But  in  time  the  tide  turned  and  people  came  at  last  to 
acknowledge  that  Wordsworth  was  not  only  a  poet,  but 
a  great  one.  He  showed  men  a  new  way  of  poetry;  he 
proved  to  them  that  nightingale  was  as  poetical  a  word 
as  Philomel,  that  it  was  possible  to  speak  of  the  sun  and 
the  moon  as  the  sun  and  the  moon,  and  not  as  Phoebus 
and  Diana.  Phoebus,  Diana,  and  Philomel  are,  with 
the  thoughts  they  convey,  beautiful  in  their  right  places, 
but  so  are  sun,  moon,  and  nightingale. 

Wordsworth  tried  to  make  men  see  with  new  eyes 
the  little  everyday  things  that  they  had  looked  upon 
week  by  week  and  year  by  year  until  they  had  grown 
common.  He  tried  to  make  them  see  these  things  again 
with  "the  glory  and  the  freshness  of  a  dream."  ^ 

Wordsworth  fought  the  battle  of  the  simple  word, 
and  phrase,  and  thought,  and  won  it.  And  the  poets  who 
came  after  him,  and  not  the  poets  only,  but  the  prose 
writers  too,  whether  they  acknowledged  it  or  not,  whether 
they  knew  it  or  not,  entered  as  by  right  into  the  possession 
of  the  kingdom  which  he  had  won  for  them. 

And  now  let  me  tell  you  a  little  of  the  life  of  this 
nature  poet. 

William  Wordsworth  was  born  at  Cockermouth  in 
Cumberland  in  1770.  He  was  the  second  son  of  John 
Wordsworth,  a  lawyer,  and  law  agent  for  the  Earl  of 
Lonsdale.     William's   motlier    died    when    he    was    still    a 

^Prelude,  book  v.  ^Odc,  Intimations  of  ImmortaUty. 


560  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

very  small  boy,  and  he  remembered  little  about  her.  He 
remembered  dimly  that  one  day  as  he  was  going  *o  church, 
she  pinned  some  flowers  into  his  coat.  He  remembered 
seeing  her  once  lying  in  an  easy  chair  when  she  was  ill,  and 
that  was  nearly  all. 

Before  Wordsworth  lost  his  mother  he  had  a  happy 
out-door  childliood.  He  spent  long  days  playing  about  in 
garden  and  orchard,  or  on  the  banks  of  the  Derwent,  with 
his  friends  and  brothers  and  his  sister  Dorothy.  In  one 
of  his  long  poems  called  Tlie  Prelude,  which  is  a  history 
of  his  own  young  life,  he  tells  of  these  happy  childish 
hours.  In  other  of  his  poems  he  tells  of  the  love  and  com- 
radeship that  there  was  between  himself  and  his  sister, 
though  she  was  two  years  younger — 

"Oh !  pleasant,  pleasant  ^vere  the  days, 
The  time,  when,  in  our  childish  plays. 
My  sister  Emmeline  and  I 
Together  chased  the  butterfly ! 
A  very  hunter  did  I  rush 
Upon  the  prey: — with  leaps  and  springs 
I  followed  on  from  brake  to  bush ; 
But  she,  God  love  her !  feared  to  brush 
The  dust  from  off  its  wings."  ^ 

Together  they  spied  out  the  sparrows'  nests  and  watched 
the  tiny  nestlings  as  they  grew,  the  big  rough  boy  learning 
much  from  his  tender-hearted,  gentle  sister.  In  after 
years  he  said — 

"She  gave  me  eyes,  she  gave  me  ears; 
And  humble  cares,  and  delicate  fears ; 
A  heart,  the  fountain  of  sweet  tears; 
And  love,  and  thought,  and  joy."  ^ 

When  the  mother  died  these  happy  days  for  brother 
and  sister  together  were  done,  for  Willie  went  to  school 

^  To  a  Butterfly.  =■  The  Sparrou-'s  Nest. 


THE  POET  OF  NATURE  561 

at  Hawkshead  with  his  brothers,  and  Dorothy  was  sent 
to  hve  with  her  grandfather  at  Penrith. 

But  Wordsworth's  school-time  was  happy  too.  Hawks- 
head  was  among  the  beautiful  lake  and  mountain  scenery 
that  he  loved.  He  had  a  great  deal  of  freedom,  and  out 
of  school  hours  could  take  long  rambles,  day  and  night  too. 
When  moon  and  stars  were  shining  he  would  wander 
among  the  hills  until  the  spirit  of  the  place  laid  hold  of 
him,  and  he  says — 

"I  heard  among  the  solitary  hills 
Low  breathings  coming  after  me,  and  sounds 
Of  undistinguishable  motion,  steps 
Almost  as  silent  as  the  turf  they  trod."  ^ 

Wordsworth  fished  and  bird-nested,  climbing  perilous 
crags  and  slippery  rocks  to  find  rare  eggs.  In  summer 
he  and  his  companions  rowed  upon  the  lake,  in  winter 
they  skated. 

"And  in  the  frosty  season,  when  the  sun 
Was  set,  and  visible  for  many  a  mile 
The  cottage  windows  blazed  through  twilight  gloom, 
I  heeded  not  tlieir  summons :  happy  time 
It  was  indeed  for  all  of  us — for  me 
A  time  of  rapture !     Clear  and  loud 
The  village  clock  tolled  six, — I  wheeled  about. 
Proud  and  exulting  like  an  untired  horse 
That  cares  not  for  his  home.     All  shod  with  steel. 
We  hissed  along  the  polished  ice  in  games. 

We  were  a  noisy  crew;  the  sun  in  heaven 
Beheld  not  vales  more  beautiful  than  ours; 
Nor  saw  a  band  in  happiness  and  joy 
Richer,  or  worthier  of  the  ground  they  trod."  ^ 

Yet  among  all  this  noisy  boyish  fun  and  laughter,  Words- 
worth's strange,  keen  love  of  nature  took  root  and  grew. 
At  times  he  says — 

*  Prelude,  book  i.  '  Prelude,  book  i. 


562  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"Even  then  I   felt 
Gleams  like  the  flashing  of  a  shield: — the  earth 
And  common  face  of  nature  spake  to  me 
Rememberable  things."  ^ 

He  read,  too,  what  he  liked,  spending  many  happy  hours 
over  Gulliver's  Travels,  and  the  Tale  of  a  Tub,  Don 
Quixote,  and  the  Arabian  Nights. 

While  Wordsworth  was  still  at  school  his  father  died. 
His  uncles  then  took  charge  of  him,  and  after  he  left  school 
sent  him  to  Cambridge.  Wordsworth  did  nothing  great 
at  college.  He  took  his  degree  without  honors,  and 
left  Cambridge  still  undecided  what  his  career  in  life  was 
to  be.  He  did  not  feel  himself  good  enough  for  the  Church. 
He  did  not  care  for  law,  but  rather  liked  the  idea  of  being  a 
soldier.  That  idea,  however,  he  also  gave  up,  and  for  a 
time  he  drifted. 

In  those  days  one  of  the  world's  great  dramas  was 
being  enacted.  The  French  Revolution  had  begim.  With 
the  great  struggle  the  poet's  heart  was  stirred,  his  imagina- 
tion fired.  It  seemed  to  him  that  a  new  dawn  of  freedom 
and  joy  and  peace  was  breaking  on  the  world,  and  "France 
lured  him  forth."  He  crossed  the  Channel,  and  for  two 
years  he  lived  through  all  the  storm  and  stress  of  the 
Revolution.  He  might  have  ended  his  life  in  the  fearful 
Reign  of  Terror  which  was  coming  on,  had  not  his  friends 
in  England  called  him  home.  He  left  France  full  of  pitj% 
and  sorrow,  and  disappointment,  for  no  reign  of  peace 
had  come,  and  the  desire  for  Liberty  had  been  swallowed 
up  in  the  desire  for  Empire. 

In  spite  of  his  years  of  travel,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that 
it  was  necessary  for  him  to  earn  his  living,  Wordsworth 
was  still  unsettled  as  to  what  his  work  in  life  was  to  be, 
when  a  friend  dying  left  him  nine  hundred  pounds.  With 
Wordsworth's  simple  tastes  this  sum  was  enough  to  live 

^Prelude,  book  i. 


THE  POET  OF  NATURE  563 

upon  for  several  years,  so  he  asked  his  dearly  loved  sister 
Dorothy  to  make  her  home  with  him,  and  together  they 
settled  down  to  a  simple  cottage  life  in  Dorsetshire.  It 
was  a  happy  thing  for  Wordsworth  that  he  found  such 
a  comrade  in  his  sister.  From  first  to  last  she  was  his 
friend  and  helper,  cheering  and  soothing  him  when 
need  be — 

"Her  voice  was  like  a  hidden  bird  that  sang. 
The  thought  of  her  was  like  a  flash  of  light. 
Or  an  unseen  companionship,  a  breath 
Of  fragrance  independent  of  the  wind." 

Another  poet,  Samuel  Taylor  Coleridge,  whom  William 
and  Dorothy  Wordsworth  now  met,  calls  her  "Words- 
worth's exquisite  sister."  "She  is  a  woman  indeed,  in  mind 
I  mean,  and  in  heart.  ...  In  every  motion  her  innocent 
soul  out-beams  so  brightly  that  who  saw  her  would  say 
'Guilt  was  a  thing  impossible  with  her.'  " 


CHAPTER  LXXV 

WORDSWORTH  AND  COLERIDGE— THE  LAKE  POETS 

After  Coleridge  and  Wordsworth  once  met  they  soon 
became  fast  friends,  and  in  order  to  be  near  Coleridge 
the  Wordsworths  moved  to  another  house  near  Nether 
Stowey  in  Somersetshire. 

Coleridge  was  two  years  or  more  younger  than  Words- 
worth, having  been  born  in  1772.  He  was  the  thirteenth 
child  of  his  father,  who  was  a  clergyman.  As  a  boy  he 
was  sensitive  and  lonely,  liking  better  to  day-dream  by 
himself  than  to  play  with  his  fellows.  While  still  a  mere 
child  he  loved  books.  Before  he  was  five  he  had  read 
the  Arabian  Nights,  and  he  peopled  his  day  dreams  with 
giants  and  genii,  slaves  and  fair  princesses.  When  he 
was  ten  he  went  to  school  at  Christ's  Hospital,  the  Blue- 
coat  School.  Here  he  met  Charles  Lamb,  who  also  became 
a  writer,  and  whose  Essays  and  Tales  from  Shakespeare 
I  hope  you  will  soon  read. 

At  school  even  his  fellows  saw  how  clever  Coleridge 
was.  He  read  greedily  and  talked  with  any  one  who 
would  listen  and  answer.  In  his  lonely  wanderings  about 
London  on  "leave  days"  he  was  delighted  if  he  could 
induce  any  stray  passer-by  to  talk,  especially,  he  says, 
if  he  was  dressed  in  black.  No  subject  came  amiss  to  him, 
religion,  philosophj'-,  science,  or  poetry.  From  school 
Coleridge  went  to  Cambridge,  but  after  a  time,  getting  into 
trouble  and  debt,  he  ran  away  and  enlisted  in  a  cavalry 
regiment  under  the  name  of  Silas  Tomkyn  Comberback, 

564 


THE  LAKE  POETS  565 

In  a  few  months,  however,  he  was  discovered,  and  his 
brothers  bought  him  out.  He  then  went  back  to  Cam- 
bridge, but  left  again  at  the  end  of  the  same  year  without 
taking  a  degree. 

Meantime,  while  on  a  visit  to  Oxford,  he  had  met 
Southey,  another  poet  who  was  at  this  time  a  student 
there. 

Robert  Southey  was  born  in  1774,  and  was  the  son  of  a 
Bristol  linen  draper,  but  he  was  brought  up  chiefly  by  an 
aunt  in  Bath.  At  fourteen  he  went  to  school  at  West- 
minster, and  later  to  Balliol  College,  Oxford.  When 
Coleridge  met  him  he  was  just  twenty,  and  Coleridge 
twenty-two.  Like  Wordsworth,  they  were  both  fired 
with  enthusiasm  for  the  French  Revolution,  and  they  soon 
became  friends. 

With  some  others  of  like  mind  they  formed  a  little 
society,  which  they  called  the  Pantisocracy,  from  Greek 
words  meaning  all-equal-rule.  They  decided  that  they 
should  all  marry  and  then  emigrate  to  the  banks  of  the 
Susquehanna  (chosen,  it  has  been  said,  because  of  its 
beautiful  name),  and  there  form  a  little  Utopia.  Property 
was  to  be  in  common,  each  man  laboring  on  the  land  two 
hours  a  day  in  order  to  provide  food  for  the  company. 
But  the  fine  scheme  came  to  nothing,  for  meanwhile  none 
of  the  company  had  enough  money  to  pay  for  his  passage 
to  the  banks  of  the  beautiful-sounding  river.  Coleridge 
and  Southey,  however,  carried  out  part  of  the  program. 
They  both  married,  their  wives  being  sisters. 

Coleridge,  about  the  same  time  as  he  married,  published 
a  volume  of  poems.  But  as  this  did  not  bring  him  wealth 
he  then  tried  various  other  ways  of  making  a  living.  He 
began  a  weekly  paper  which  ceased  after  a  few  numbers, 
he  lectured  on  history,  and  preached  in  various  Unitarian 
chapels.  Then  after  a  time  he  settled  at  Nether  Stowey, 
where  he  was  living  when  he  met  Wordsworth. 


566  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  two  poets,  as  has  been  said,  at  once  became  friends, 
Coleridge  having  a  deep  and  whole-hearted  admiration 
for  Wordsworth's  genius.  "I  speak  with  heartfelt  sincer- 
ity," he  says,  "and  I  think  unblinded  judgment,  when  I 
tell  you  that  I  feel  a  little  man  by  his  side." 

The  two  friends  had  many  walks  and  talks  together, 
shaping  their  ideas  of  what  poetry  should  be.  They  at 
length  decided  to  publish  a  book  together  to  be  called 
Lyrical  Ballads. 

In  this  book  there  was  published  the  poem  which  of 
all  that  Coleridge  wrote  is  the  best  known,  The  Ancient 
Mariner.  It  tells  how  this  old  old  sailor  stops  a  guest 
who  is  going  to  a  wedding,  and  bids  him  hear  a  tale.  The 
wedding  guest  does  not  wish  to  stay,  but  the  old  man  holds 
him  with  his  skinny  hand — 

"He  holds  him  with  his  glittering  eye — 

The  Wedding  Guest  stood  still, 
And  listens  like  a  three  years'  child: 
The  Mariner  hath  his  will." 

He  hath  his  will,  and  tells  how  the  ship  sailed  forth  gayly, 
and  how  it  met  after  a  time  with  storms,  and  cold,  and  fog, 
until  at  last  it  was  all  beset  with  ice.  Then  when  to  the 
sailors  all  hope  seemed  lost,  an  albatross  came  sailing 
through  the  fog.  With  joy  they  hailed  it,  the  only  living 
thing  in  that  wilderness  of  ice.     They  fed  it  with  delight — 

"It  ate  the  food  it  ne'er  had  eat. 
And  round  and  round  it  flew: 
The  ice  did  split  with  a  thunder-fit; 
The  helmsman  steered  us  through !" 

Then  on  they  gladly  sailed,  the  albatross  following,  until 
one  day  the  Ancient  Mariner,  in  a  mad  moment,  shot  the 
beautiful  bird.  In  punishment  for  this  deed  terrible 
disasters    fell    upon    that    ship    and    its    crew.     Under    a 


THE  LAKE  POETS  567 

blazing  sun,  in  a  hot  and  slimy  sea  filled  with  creeping, 
crawling  things,  they  were  becalmed — 

"Day  after  day,  day  after  day. 

We  stuck,  nor  breath  nor  motion; 
As  idle  as  a  painted  ship 
Upon  a  painted  ocean." 

Then  plague  and  death  came,  and  every  man  died  except 
the  guilty  Mariner — 

"Alone,  alone,  all,  all  alone. 
Alone  on  a  wide,  wide  sea; 
And  never  a  saint  took  pity  on 
My  soul  in   agony. 

"I  looked  to  heaven,  and  tried  to  pray; 
But  or  ever  a  prayer  had  gush'd, 
A  wicked  whisper  came,  and  made 
My  heart  as  dry  as  dust." 

But  one  day  as  the  Mariner  watched  the  water  snakes,  the 
only  living  things  in  all  that  dreadful  waste,  he  blessed 
them  unaware,  merely  because  they  were  alive.  That  self- 
same moment,  he  found  that  he  could  pray,  and  the 
albatross,  which  his  fellows  in  their  anger  had  hung  about 
his  neck,  dropped  from  it,  and  fell  like  lead  into  the  sea. 
Then,  relieved  from  his  terrible  agony  of  soul,  the  Mariner 
slept,  and  when  he  woke  he  found  that  the  dreadful 
drought  was  over,  and  that  it  was  raining.  Oh,  blessed 
relief!  But  more  terrors  still  he  had  to  endure  until  at 
last  the  ship  drifted  homeward — 

"Oh,  dream  of  joy!  is  this  indeed 
The  lighthouse  top  I  see? 
Is  this  the  hill.''  is  this  the  kirk? 
Is  this  mine  own  countree.'' 

"We  drifted  o'er  the  Harbour-bar, 

And  I  with  sobs  did  pray — 
'O  let  me  be  awake,  my  God! 
Or  let  me  sleep  alway.'  " 


568  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  ship  had  indeed  reached  home,  but  in  the  harbor  it 
suddenly  sank  hke  lead.    Only  the  Mariner  was  saved. 

When  once  more  he  came  to  land,  he  told  his  tale  to  a 
holy  hermit  and  was  shriven,  but  ever  and  anon  afterward 
an  agony  comes  upon  him  and  forces  him  to  tell  the  tale 
again,  even  as  he  has  just  done  to  the  wedding  guest.  And 
thus  he  ends  his  story — 

"He  prayeth  best,  who  loveth  best 
All  things  both  great  and  small ; 
For  the  dear  God,  who  loveth  us. 
He  made  and  loveth  all." 

Then  he  goes,  leaving  the  wondering  wedding  guest  alone. 

"The  Mariner,  whose  eye  is  bright, 
Whose  beard  with  age  is  hoar, 
Is  gone;  and  now  the  Wedding  Guest 
Turned  from  the  Bridegroom's  door. 

"He  went,  like  one  that  hath  been  stunned. 
And  is  of  sense  forlorn: 
A  sadder  and  a  wiser  man 
He  rose  the  morrow  morn." 

Among  the  poems  which  Wordsworth  wrote  for  the 
book  of  Lyrical  Ballads,  was  one  which  every  one  knows, 
We  are  Seven.  In  another,  called  Lines  written  in 
Early  Sjmng,  he  gives  as  it  were  the  text  of  all  his  nature 
poems,  and  his  creed,  for  here  he  tells  us  that  he  believes 
that  all  things  in  Nature,  bird  and  flower  alike,  feel. 

"I  heard  a  thousand  blended  notes. 
While  in  a  grove  I  sate  reclined. 
In  that  sweet  mood  when  pleasant  thoughts 
Bring  sad  thoughts  to  the  mind. 

"In  her  fair  works  did  Nature  link 

The  human  soul  that  through  me  ran; 
And  much  it  griev'd  my  heart  to  think 
WTiat  man  has  made  of  man. 


THE  LAKE  POETS  569 

"Through  primrose  tufts,  in  that  sweet  bower, 
The  periwinkle  trailed  its  wreaths; 
And  'tis  my  faith  that  every  flower 
Enjoys  the  air  it  breathes. 

"The  birds  around  me  hopp'd  and  play'd. 
Their  thoughts  I  cannot  measure: — 
But  the  least  motion  that  they  made. 
It  seemed  a  thrill  of  pleasure. 

"The  budding  twigs  spread  out  their  fan. 

To  catch  the  breezy  air; 
And  I  must  think,  do  all  I  can. 
That  there  was  pleasure  there. 

"If  this  belief  from  heaven  be  sent. 
If  such  be  Nature's  holy  plan. 
Have  I  not  reason  to  lament 
What  man  has  made  of  man.^" 

The  book  was  not  a  success.  People  did  not  under- 
stand The  Ancient  Manner,  and  they  laughed  at  Words- 
worth's simple  lyrics,  although  the  last  poem  in  the  book, 
Tintern  Abbey,  has  since  become  famous,  and  is  acknowl- 
edged as  one  of  the  treasures  of  our  literature. 

And  now,  as  this  new  book  was  not  a  success,  and  as 
he  did  not  seem  able  to  make  enough  money  as  a  poet, 
Coleridge  seriously  began  to  think  of  becoming  a  Unitarian 
preacher  altogether.  But  the  Wedgwoods,  the  famous 
potters,  wealthy  men  Avith  cultured  minds  and  kindly 
hearts,  offered  him  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  a  year  if 
he  would  give  himself  up  to  poetry  and  philosophy.  After 
some  hesitation,  Coleridge  consented,  and  that  winter  he 
set  off  for  a  visit  to  Germany  with  the  Wordsworths. 

It  was  on  their  return  from  this  visit  that  Wordsworth 
again  changed  his  home  and  went  to  live  at  Dove  Cottage, 
near  Grasmere,  in  the  Lake  District,  which  as  a  boy  he  had 
known  and  loved.  And  here,  among  the  hills,  he  made 
his  home  for  the  rest  of  his  life. 


570  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

The  days  at  Grasmere  flowed  along  peacefully  and 
almost  without  an  event.  Wordsworth  published  a  second 
volume  of  lyrical  ballads,  and  then  went  on  writing  and 
working  steadily  at  his  long  poem  The  Prelude,  in  which 
he  told  the  story  of  his  early  life. 

Coleridge  soon  followed  his  friend,  and  settled  at  Greta 
Hall,  Keswick,  and  there  was  much  coming  and  going 
between  Dove  Cottage  and  Greta  Hall.  At  Greta  Hall 
there  were  two  houses  under  one  roof,  and  soon  Southey 
took  the  second  house  and  came  to  live  beside  his  brother- 
in-law,  Coleridge.  And  so  these  three  poets,  having  thus 
drifted  together,  came  to  be  called  the  Lake  Poets,  although 
Southey's  poetry  had  little  in  common  with  that  of  either 
Wordsworth  or  Coleridge. 

It  seemed  hardly  to  break  the  peaceful  flow  of  life  at 
Dove  Cottage,  when,  in  1802,  Wordsworth  married  his  old 
playmate  and  schoolfellow,  JNIary  Hutchinson.  They 
had  known  each  other  all  their  lives,  and  marriage  was  a 
natural  and  lovely  ending  to  their  friendship.  Of  her 
Wordsworth  wrote — 

"She  was  a  Phantom  of  delight 
When  first  she  gleamed  upon  my  sight; 
A  lovely  Apparition,  sent 
To  be  a  moment's  ornament; 
Her  eyes  as  stars  of  Twilight  fair; 
Like  Twilight's,  too,  her  dusky  hair; 
But  all  things  else  about  her  drawn 
From  May-time  and  the  cheerful  Dawn; 
A  dancing  Shape,  an  Image  gay. 
To  haunt,  to  startle,  and  waylay. 

"I  saw  her  upon  nearer  view, 
A  Spirit,  yet  a  woman  too ! 
Her  household  motions  light  and  free, 
And  steps  of  virgin-liberty; 
A  countenance  in  which  did  meet 
Sweet  records,  promises  as  sweet; 


THE  LAKE  POETS  571 

A  Creature  not  too  bright  and  good 

For  human  nature's  daily  food; 

For  transient  sorrows,  simple  wiles. 

Praise,  blame,  love,  kisses,  tears,  and  smiles. 

"And  now  I  see  with  eye  serene 
The  very  pulse  of  the  machine; 
A  Being  breathing  thoughtful  breath, 
A  Traveller  between  life  and  death; 
The  reason  firm,  the  temperate  will. 
Endurance,  foresight,  strength,  and  skill; 
A  perfect  Woman,  nobly  planned, 
To  warn,  to  comfort,  and  command; 
And  yet  a  Spirit  still,  and  bright 
With  something  of  angelic  light." 

The  years  passed  in  quiet  fashion,  with  friendly  comings 
and  goings,  with  journeys  here  and  there,  now  to  Scotland, 
now  to  the  Continent. 

Children  were  born,  friends  died,  and  once  or  twice 
the  Wordsworths  changed  their  house  until  they  finally 
settled  at  Rydal  IVIount,  and  there  the  poet  remained  for 
the  rest  of  his  long  life.  And  all  the  time,  for  more  than 
fifty  years,  Wordsworth  steadily  wrote,  but  it  is  not  too 
much  to  say  that  all  his  best  work  was  done  in  the  twenty 
years  between  1798  and  1818. 

Besides  The  Prelude,  of  which  we  have  already  spoken, 
Wordsworth's  other  long  poems  are  The  Eoccursion  and 
The  White  Doe  of  Rylstone.  The  White  Doe  is  a  story  of 
the  days  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  of  the  days  when  England 
was  still  in  the  midst  of  religious  struggle.  There  was  a 
rebellion  in  Yorkshire,  in  which  the  old  lord  of  Rylstone 
fought  vainly  if  gallantly  for  the  Old  Religion,  and  he  and 
his  sons  died  the  death  of  rebels.  Of  all  the  family  only 
the  gentle  Emily  remained  "doomed  to  be  the  last  leaf 
on  a  blasted  tree."  About  the  country-side  she  wandered 
alone  accompanied  only  by  a  white  doe.  In  time  she,  too, 
died,  then  for  many  years  the  doe  was  seen  alone.     It  was 


572  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

often  to  be  seen  in  the  churchyard  during  service,  and 
after  service  it  would  go  away  with  the  rest  of  the  con- 
gregation. 

Tlie  Excursion,  though  a  long  poem,  is  only  part  of 
what  Wordsworth  meant  to  write.  He  meant  in  three 
books  to  give  his  opinions  on  Man,  Nature,  and  Society, 
and  the  whole  was  to  be  called  The  Recluse,  To  this 
great  work  Tlie  Prelude  was  to  be  the  introduction,  hence 
its  name.  But  Wordsworth  never  finished  his  great 
design  and  The  Excursion  remains  a  fragment.  Much  of 
The  Excursion  cannot  be  called  poetry  at  all.  Yet,  as  one 
of  Wordsworth's  great  admirers  has  said:^  "In  deserts  of 
preaching  we  find  delightful  oases  of  poetry."  There  is 
little  action  in  The  Excursion,  and  much  of  it  is  merely  dull 
descriptions  and  conversations.  So  I  would  not  advise 
you  to  read  it  for  a  long  time  to  come,  but  to  try  rather 
to  understand  some  of  Wordsworth's  shorter  poems, 
although  at  times  their  names  may  seem  less  inviting. 

One  of  the  most  beautiful  of  all  his  poems  Wordsworth 
calls  by  the  cumbrous  name  of  Intimations  of  Immor- 
tality from  recollections  of  Early  Childhood.  This  is 
his  way  of  saying  that  when  we  are  small  we  are  nearer 
the  wonder-world  than  when  we  grow  up,  and  that  when 
we  first  open  our  eyes  on  this  world  they  have  not  quite 
forgotten  the  wonderful  sights  they  saw  in  that  eternity 
whence  we  came,  for  the  soul  has  no  beginning,  there- 
fore no  ending.  I  will  give  you  here  one  verse  of  this 
poem : — 

"Our  birth  is  but  a  sleep  and  a  forgetting: 
The  Soul  that  rises  with  us,  our  life's  Star, 
Hath  had  elsewhere  its  setting, 

And  Cometh  from  afar; 
Not  in  entire  forgetfulness. 
And  not  in  utter  nakedness, 

^  Morley. 


THE  LAKE  POETS  573 

But  trailing  clouds  of  glory  do  we  come 

From  God,  who  is  our  home: 
Heaven  lies  about  us  in  our  infancy ! 
Shades  of  the  prison-house  begin  to  close 

Upon  the  growing  Boy, 
But  He  beholds  the  light,  and  whence  it  flows. 

He  sees  it  in  his  joy; 
The  Youth,  who  daily  further  from  the  east 
Must  travel,  still  is  Nature's  Priest, 
And  by  the  vision  splendid 
Is  on  his  way  attended ; 
At  length  the  Man  perceives  it  die  away, 
And  fade  into  the  light  of  common  day." 

Wordsworth,  for  the  times  in  which  he  lived,  traveled 
a  good  deal,  and  in  his  comings  and  goings  he  made  many 
new  friends  and  met  all  the  great  literary  men  of  his  day. 
And  by  slow  degrees  his  poetry  won  its  way,  and  the 
younger  men  looked  up  to  him  as  to  a  master.  The  great, 
too,  came  to  see  in  him  a  power.  Since  1813  Southey 
had  been  Laureate,  and  when  in  1848  he  died,  the  honor 
was  given  to  Wordsworth.  He  was  now  an  old  man  of 
seventy-three,  and  although  he  still  wrote  a  few  poems, 
he  wrote  nothing  as  Laureate,  except  an  ode  in  honor 
of  the  Prince  Consort  when  he  became  Chancellor  of 
Cambridge  University.  Now,  as  he  grew  old,  one  by  one 
death  bade  his  friends  to  leave  him — 

"Like  clouds  that  rake  the  mountain  summits, 
Or  waves  that  own  no  curbing  hand. 
How  fast  has  brother  followed  brother. 
From  sunshine  to  the  sunless  land! 

"Yet  I  whose  lids  from  infant  slumber 
Were  earlier  raised,  remain  to  hear 
A  timid  voice,  that  asks  in  whispers 
'Who  next  will  drop  and  disappear?'"^ 

'  Upon  the  Death  of  James  Hogg. 


574  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

At  length  in  1850,  at  the  age  of  eighty,  he  too  closed  his 
eyes,  and  went  "From  sunshine  to  the  sunless  land." 

"But  where  will  Europe's  latter  hour 
Again  find  Wordsworth's  healing  power? 
Others  will  teach  us  how  to  dare, 
And  against  fear  our  breast  to  steel; 
Others  will  strengthen  us  to  bear — 
But  who,  ah!  who,  will  make  us  feel?"  ^ 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Poems  of  Wordsworth,    selected  by  C.  L.  Thomson.    Selections,  by  Matthew 
Arnold. 

*  Arnold. 


CHAPTER  LXXVI 

COLERIDGE  AND  SOUTHEY— SUNSHINE  AND  SHADOW 

Long  before  Wordsworth  closed  his  eyes  on  this  world, 
Coleridge,  in  some  ways  a  greater  poet  than  his  friend, 
had  gone  to  his  last  rest.  Wordsworth  had  a  happy, 
loving  understanding  of  the  little  things  of  real  life.  He 
had  an  "exquisite  regard  for  common  things,"  but  his 
words  have  seldom  the  glamour,  the  something  which 
we  cannot  put  into  words  which  makes  us  see  beyond 
things  seen.  This  Coleridge  had.  It  is  not  only  his  magic 
of  words,  it  is  this  trembling  touch  upon  the  unknown, 
the  unearthly  beauty  and  sadness  of  which  he  makes  us 
conscious  in  his  poems  that  marks  him  as  great. 

And  yet  all  that  Coleridge  has  left  us  which  reaches 
the  very  highest  is  very  little.  But  as  has  been  said,  "No 
English  poet  can  be  put  above  Coleridge  when  only 
quality  and  not  quantity  is  demanded."  ^  Of  The  Ancient 
Mariner  I  have  already  told  you,  although  perhaps  it  is 
too  full  of  fearsomeness  for  you  to  read  yet.  Next  to  it 
stands  CJmstabel,  which  is  unfinished.  It  is  too  full  of 
mysterious  glamour  to  translate  into  mere  prose,  so  I 
will  not  try  to  tell  the  story,  but  here  are  a  few  lines  which 
are  very  often  quoted — 

"Alas !  they  had  been  friends  in  youth ; 
But  whispering  tongues  can  poison  truth; 
And  Constancy  lives  in  realms  above ; 
And  Life  is  thorny;  and  Youth  is  vain; 
And  to  be  wroth  with  one  we  love, 
Doth  work  like  madness  in  the  brain. 

*  Stainsbury. 
576 


576  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  thus  it  chanced,  as  I  divine. 

With  Roland  and  Sir  Leoline. 

Each  spake  words  of  high  disdain 

And  insult  to  his  heart's  best  brother; 

They   parted — ne'er  to  meet  again ! 

But  never  either  found  another 

To  free  the  hollow  heart  from  paining; 

They  stood  aloof,  the  scars  remaining. 

Like  cliffs  which  had  been  rent  asunder; 

A  dreary  sea  now  flows  between; — 

But  neither  heat,  nor  frost,  nor  thunder. 

Shall  wholly  do  away,  I  ween. 

The  marks  of  that  which  once  had  been." 

Coleridge's  singing  time  was  short.  All  his  best 
poetry  had  been  written  before  he  went  to  live  at  Keswick. 
There  his  health,  which  had  never  been  good,  gave  way. 
Unhappy  in  his  home,  and  racked  with  bodily  pain,  he 
at  length  began  to  use  opium  in  order  to  find  relief.  The 
habit  to  which  he  soon  became  a  slave  made  shipwreck  of 
his  life.  He  had  always  been  unstable  of  purpose  and 
weak  of  will,  never  keeping  to  one  course  long.  He  had 
tried  journalism,  he  tried  lecturing,  he  planned  books 
which  were  never  written.  His  life  was  a  record  of  begin- 
nings. As  each  new  plan  failed  he  yielded  easily  to  the 
temptation  of  living  on  his  friends.  He  had  always  been 
restless  in  mind,  now  he  became  as  restless  in  body  as  in 
mind.  He  left  his  home,  and  after  wanderings  now  here 
now  there,  he  at  length  found  a  home  in  London  with 
kind,  understanding  friends.  Of  him  here  we  have  a 
pathetic  picture  drawn  by  another  great  man.^  "The 
good  man — he  was  now  getting  old,  towards  sixty  perhaps, 
and  gave  you  the  idea  of  a  life  that  had  been  full  of  suffer- 
ings; a  life  heavy-laden,  half-vanquished,  still  swimming 
painfully  in  seas  of  manifold  physical  and  other 
bewilderment.  Brow  and  head  were  round  and  of  massive 
weight,  but  the  face  was  flabby  and  irresolute.    The  deep 

'  Carlyle. 


SUNSHINE  AND  SHADOW  577 

eyes,  of  a  light  hazel,  were  as  full  of  sorrow  as  of  inspira- 
tion, confused  pain  looked  mildly  from  them,  as  in  a  kind  of 
mild  astonishment.  The  whole  figure  and  air,  good  and 
amiable  otherwise,  might  be  called  flabby  and  irresolute, 
expressive  of  weakness  under  possibility  of  strength,  ...  a 
heavy-laden,  h'gh-aspiring,  and  surely  much  suffering  man." 

And  yet  to  this  broken-down  giant  men  crowded  eagerly 
to  hear  him  talk.  Never,  perhaps,  since  the  great  Sam 
had  held  his  court  had  such  a  talker  been  heard.  And 
although  there  was  no  Bos  well  near  to  make  these  con- 
versations live  again,  the  poet's  nephew,  Henry  Nelson 
Coleridge,  gathered  some  of  his  sayings  together  into  a 
book  which  he  called  T'ahle  Talk.  With  his  good  friends 
Coleridge  spent  all  his  remaining  life  from  1816  till  1834, 
when  he  died. 

JVIeanwhile  his  children  and  his  home  were  left  to  the 
care  of  others.  And  when  Coleridge  threw  off  his  home 
ties  and  duties  it  was  upon  Southey  that  the  burden  chiefly 
fell.  And  Southey,  kindly  and  generous,  loving  his  own 
children  fondly,  loved  and  cared  for  his  nephews  and 
nieces  too.  We  cannot  regard  Southey  as  one  of  our 
great  poets,  but  when  we  read  his  letters,  we  must  love 
him  as  a  man.  He  wrote  several  long  poems,  the  two  best 
known  perhaps  are  The  Curse  of  Kehama  and  Thalaha, 
the  one  a  Hindoo,  the  other  a  Mahometan  story,  but  he 
is  better  remembered  by  his  short  poems,  such  as  The  Battle 
of  Blenheim  and  The  Irichcape  Rock. 

For  forty  years  Southey  lived  at  Greta  Hall,  and  from 
his  letters  we  get  the  pleasantest  picture  of  the  home- 
loving,  nonsense-loving  "comical  papa"  who  had  kept  the 
heart  of  a  boy,  even  when  his  hair  grew  gray — 

"A  man  he  is  by  nature  merry, 
Somewhat  Tom-foolish,  and  comical  very; 
Who  has  gone  through  the  world,  not  mindful  of  pelf. 
Upon  easy  terms,  thank  Heaven,  with  himself." 


578  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

He  loved  his  books  and  he  loved  the  little  curly-headed 
children  that  gathered  about  him  with  pattering  feet 
and  chattering  tongues,  and  never  wished  to  be  absent 
from  them.  "Oh  dear,  oh  dear,"  he  says,  "there  is  such  a 
comfort  in  one's  old  coat  and  old  shoes,  one's  armchair 
and  own  fireside,  one's  own  writing-desk  and  own  library — 
with  a  little  girl  climbing  up  my  neck,  and  saying,  'Don't 
go  to  London,  papa- — you  must  stay  with  Edith';  and  a 
little  boy,  whom  I  have  taught  to  speak  the  language  of 
cats,  dogs,  cuckoos,  and  jackasses,  etc.,  before  he  can 
articulate  a  word  of  his  own;  there  is  such  a  comfort 
in  all  these  things,  that  transportation  to  London  for  four 
or  five  weeks  seems  a  heavier  punishment  than  any  sins  of 
mine  deserve." 

And  so  we  see  him  spending  long  hours,  long  years, 
among  his  books,  hoping  for  lasting  fame  from  his  poems, 
and  meantime  earning  with  his  prose  food  for  hungry  little 
mouths,  shoes  for  nimble  little  feet,  with  just  a  trifle 
over  for  books,  and  still  more  books.  For  Southey  loved 
books,  and  his  big  library  was  lined  with  them.  There 
were  thousands  there,  many  in  beautiful  bindings,  glowing 
in  soft  coloring,  gleaming  with  pale  gold,  for  he  loved  to 
clothe  his  treasures  in  fitting  garments.  When  a  new 
box  of  books  comes  he  rejoices.  "I  shall  be  happier,"  he 
says,  "than  if  his  INIajesty  King  George  iv.  were  to  give 
orders  that  I  should  be  clothed  in  purple,  and  sleep  upon 
gold,  and  have  a  chain  about  my  neck,  and  sit  next  him 
because  of  my  wisdom  and  be  called  his  cousin." 

We  think  of  Southey  first  as  a  poet,  but  it  is  perhaps 
as  a  prose  writer  that  his  fame  will  last  longest,  and  above 
all  as  a  biographer,  that  is  as  a  writer  of  people's  lives. 
During  the  busy  years  at  Greta  Hall  he  wrote  about  a 
hundred  books,  several  of  them  biographies — among 
them  a  life  of  Nelson,  which  is  one  of  the  best  short  lives 
ever  written.     Some  day  I  hope  you  will  read  it,  both  for 


SUNSHINE  AND  SHADOW  579 

the  sake  of  Southey's  clear,  simple  style,  and  for  the  sake 
of  the  brave  man  of  whom  he  writes.  You  might  also,  I 
think,  like  his  lives  of  Bunyan  and  Cowper,  both  of  whom 
you  have  heard  of  in  this  book. 

Another  book  which  Southey  wrote  is  called  The 
Doctor.  This  is  a  whimsical,  rambling  jumble,  which 
can  hardly  be  called  a  story;  a  mixture  of  quotations  and 
original  work,  of  nonsense  and  earnest.  And  in  the  middle 
of  it  what  do  you  think  you  come  upon?  Why  our  old 
nursery  friend,  The  Three  Bears.  Southey  trusts  that 
this  book  will  suit  every  one,  "that  the  lamb  may  wade  in 
it,  though  the  elephant  may  swim,  and  also  that  it  will  be 
found  'very  entertaining  to  the  ladies'.'  "  Indeed  he  flatters 
himself  that  it  will  be  found  profitable  for  "old  and  young, 
for  men  and  for  women,  the  married  and  the  single,  the 
idle  and  the  studious,  the  merry  and  the  sad;  and  that 
it  may  sometimes  inspire  the  thoughtless  with  thought, 
and  sometimes  beguile  the  careful  of  their  cares."  But 
if  it  is  to  be  quite  perfect  it  must  have  a  chapter  for 
children — 

"Prick  up  your  ears  then. 
My  good  little  women  and  men; 

and  ye  who  are  neither  so  little  nor  so  good,  favete  Unguis^ 
for  here  follows  the  story  of  the  Three  Bears."  So  there 
it  is.  "One  of  them  was  a  Little,  Small,  Wee  Bear;  and 
one  was  a  IVIiddle-sized  Bear,  and  the  other  was  a  Great, 
Huge  Bear" — and  from  the  way  it  is  told,  I  think  we  may 
be  sure  that  Uncle  Robert  or  comical  papa  often  told  stories 
with  a  circle  of  eager,  bright  faces  round  him.  For  he 
says — 

"And  'twas  in  my  vocation 
For  their  recreation 
That  so  I  should  sing; 
Because  I  was  Laureate 
To  them  and  the  King." 

*  Be  silent. 


580  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

As  the  years  went  on  Southey  received  other  honors 
besides  the  Laureateship.  He  was  offered  a  baronetcy 
which  he  refused.  He  was  "ell-ell-deed"  by  Oxford,  as 
he  quaintly  puts  it  in  his  letters  to  his  children.  And 
when  he  tells  them  ^bout  it  he  says,  "Little  girls,  you 
know  it  might  be  proper  for  me  now  to  wear  a  large  wig, 
and  to  be  called  Doctor  Southey  and  to  become  very 
severe,  and  leave  off  being  a  comical  papa.  .  .  .  However, 
I  shall  not  come  home  in  my  wig,  neither  shall  I  wear  my 
robes  at  home." 

It  is  sad  to  think  that  this  kindly  heart  had  to  bear 
the  buffetings  of  ill  fortune.  Two  of  his  dearly  loved 
children  died,  then  he  was  parted  from  his  wife  by  worse 
than  death,  for  she  became  insane  and  remained  so  until 
she  died.  Eight  years  later  Robert  Southey  was  laid  beside 
her  in  the  churchyard  under  the  shadow  of  Skiddaw. 
"I  hope  his  life  will  not  be  forgotten,"  says  Macaulay,  "for 
it  is  sublime  in  its  simplicity,  its  energy,  its  honour,  its 
affection.  .  .  .  His  letters  are  worth  piles  of  epics,  and 
are  sure  to  last  among  us,  as  long  as  kind  hearts  like  to 
sympathise  with  goodness  and  purity  and  love  and 
upright  life." 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Southey:   Poems,  chosen  by  E.  Dowden.  Life  of  Nelson  (Everyman's  Library). 
Coleridge:   Lyrical  Poems,  chosen  by  A,  T.  Quiller-Couch. 


CHAPTER  LXXVII 

SCOTT— THE  AWAKENING  OF  ROMANCE 

The  15th  of  August  1771  was  a  lucky  day  for  all  the  boys 
and  girls  and  grown-up  people  too  of  the  English-speaking 
race,  for  on  that  day  Walter  Scott  was  born  in  Edinburgh. 
Literature  had  already  begun  to  shake  off  its  fetters  of 
art.  Romance  had  begun  to  stir  in  her  long  sleep,  for 
six  years  before  sturdy  baby  Walter  was  born,  Bishop 
Percy  had  published  a  book  called  Reliques  of  Ancient 
English  Poetry.  In  this  book  he  had  gathered  together 
many  old  ballads  and  songs,  such  as  those  of  Robin 
Hood  and  Patrick  Spens.  They  had  almost  been  forgotten, 
and  yet  they  are  poems  which  stir  the  heart  with  their 
plaintive  notes,  telling  as  they  do — 

"Of  old,  unhappy,  far-off  things. 
And  battles  long  ago; 
Or    is    it    some    more    humble   lay. 
Familiar  matter  of  to-day? 
Some  natural  sorrow,  loss,  or  pain. 
That  has  been,  and  may  be  again !"  ^ 

Bishop  Percy,  like  a  knight  of  old,  laid  his  lance  in  rest 
and  tilted  against  the  prickly  briar  hedge  that  had  grown 
up  around  the  Sleeping  Beauty,  Romance.  But  he  could 
not  win  through  and  wake  the  princess.  And  although 
Burns  and  Wordsworth,  Coleridge  and  Southey,  all 
knowing  it  or  not,  fought  on  his  side,  it  was  left  for  another 
knight   to    break    through    the    hedge    and    make    us    free 

'  Wordsworth. 
581 


582  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  the  Enchanted  Land.  And  that  knight's  name  was 
Walter — Sir  Walter,  too — for,  like  a  true  knight,  he  won 
his  title  in  the  service  of  his  lady. 

Little  Walter's  father  was  a  kindly  Scots  lawyer,  but 
he  came  of  a  good  old  Border  family,  "A  hardy  race  who 
never  shrunk  from  war."  ^  Among  his  forbears  had  been 
wild  moss-troopers  and  cattle-reivers,  lairds  of  their  own 
lands,  as  powerful  as  kings  in  their  own  countryside. 
There  were  stories  enough  of  their  bold  and  daring  deeds 
to  fill  many  books,  so  that  we  feel  that  Walter  had  been 
born  into  a  heritage  of  Romance. 

Walter  was  a  strong,  healthy  child,  but  when  he  was 
about  eighteen  months  old  he  had  an  illness  which  left 
him  lame  in  his  right  leg.  Everything  was  done  that  could 
be  done  to  restore  the  lost  power,  and  although  it  was 
partly  regained,  Scott  walked  with  a  limp  to  the  end  of 
his  days.  JMeanwhile  he  had  a  by  no  means  unhappy 
childhood.  He  spent  a  great  deal  of  time  at  the  farm 
belonging  to  his  grandfather.  Little  Wat  was  a  winsome 
laddie,  and  the  whole  household  loved  him.  On  fine  days 
he  was  carried  out  and  laid  down  among  the  crags  and 
rocks,  beside  an  old  shepherd  who  tended  his  sheep  and 
little  Walter  too,  telling  him  strange  tales  the  while — 

"Of  forayers,  who,  with  headlong  force, 
Down  from  that  strength  had  spurr'd  their  horse. 

Their  southern  rapine  to  renew. 

Far  in  the  distant  Cheviots  blue, 
And,  home  returning,  fill'd  the  hall 
With  revel,  wassel-rout,  and  brawl."  ^ 

At  other  times  Walter  listened  to  the  stories  of  his 
grandmother,  hearing  all  about  the  wild  doings  of  his 
forbears,  or  the  brave  deeds  of  Bruce  and  Wallace.  He 
was  taken  to  the  seaside,  to  Bath,  and  to  London,  and  at 
length,  grown  into  a  sturdy  little  boy,  though  still  lame, 

^  Leyden.  ^  Marmion. 


THE  AWAKENING  OF  ROMANCE        583 

he  went  back  to  his  father's  house  in  Edinburgh.  Here 
he  says  he  soon  felt  the  change  from  being  a  single 
indulged  brat,  to  becoming  the  member  of  a  large 
family. 

He  now  went  to  school,  but  did  not  show  himself  to  be 
very  clever.  He  was  not  a  dunce,  but  an  "incorrigibly 
idle  imp,"  and  in  spite  of  his  lameness  he  was  better  at 
games  than  at  lessons.  In  some  ways,  owing  to  his  idle- 
ness, he  was  behind  his  fellows,  on  the  other  hand  he  had 
read  far  more  than  they.  And  now  he  read  everything 
he  could,  in  season  and  out  of  season.  Pope's  Homer, 
Shakespeare,  Ossian,  and  especially  Spenser  were  among 
his  favorites.  Then  one  happy  day  he  came  upon  a 
volume  of  Percy's  Reliques.  All  one  summer  day  he 
read  and  read,  forgetting  the  world,  forgetting  even  to  be 
hungry.  After  that  he  was  for  ever  entertaining  his 
schoolfellows  with  scraps  of  tragic  ballads,  and  as  soon 
as  he  could  scrape  enough  money  together,  he  bought  a 
copy  of  the  book  for  himself. 

So  the  years  passed,  Walter  left  school,  went  to  Edin- 
burgh University,  and  began  to  study  law.  It  was  at 
this  time,  as  a  boy  of  sixteen,  that  for  the  first  and  only 
time  he  met  Robert  Burns,  who  had  just  come  to  Edin- 
burgh, and  was  delighted  at  receiving  a  kind  word  and 
look  from  the  poet.  He  still  found  time  to  read  a  great 
deal,  to  ride,  and  to  take  long,  rambling  walks,  for,  in 
spite  of  his  limp,  he  was  a  great  walker  and  could  go 
twenty  or  thirty  miles.  Indeed  he  used  to  tramp  the 
countryside  so  far  and  so  long  that  his  father  would  say 
he  feared  his  son  was  born  to  be  nothing  better  than  a 
wandering  peddler. 

After  a  time  it  was  decided  that  Walter  should  be  a 
barrister,  or,  as  it  is  called  in  Scotland,  an  advocate,  and  in 
1792  he  was  called  to  the  Bar.  His  work  as  an  advocate 
was  at  first  not  very  constant,  and  it  left  him  plenty  of 


584  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

time  for  long,  rambling  excursions  or  raids,  as  he  used  to 
call  them,  in  different  parts  of  Scotland  and  in  the  north 
of  England.  He  traveled  about,  listening  to  the  ballads 
of  the  country  folk,  gathering  tales,  storing  his  mind 
with  memories  of  people  and  places.  "He  was  making 
himself  a'  the  time,"  said  a  friend  who  went  with  him, 
"but  he  didna  ken  maybe  what  he  was  about  till  years 
had  passed.  At  first  he  thought  o'  little,  I  daresay,  but 
the  queerness  and  the  fun." 

It  was  in  an  expedition  to  the  English  Lakes  with  his 
brother  and  a  friend  that  Scott  met  his  wife.  One  day 
while  out  riding  he  saw  a  lady  also  riding.  She  had 
raven  black  hair  and  deep  brown  eyes,  which  found  a  way 
at  once  to  the  poet's  heart.  In  true  poet  fashion  he 
loved  her.  That  night  there  was  a  ball,  and  though 
Walter  Scott  could  not  dance,  he  went  to  the  ball  and 
met  his  lady  love.  She  was  Charlotte  Margaret  Carpenter, 
the  daughter  of  a  Frenchman  who  had  taken  refuge  in 
England  from  the  fury  of  the  Revolution.  Walter  was 
able  to  win  his  lady's  heart,  and  before  the  end  of  the  year 
had  married  her  and  carried  her  off  to  Scotland. 

Two  or  three  years  after  his  marriage,  Scott  published 
a  book  of  Border  Ballads.  It  was  the  outcome  of  his 
wanderings  in  the  Border  country.  In  it  Scott  had 
gathered  together  many  ballads  which  he  had  heard  from 
the  country  folk,  but  he  altered  and  bettered  them  as  he 
thought  fit,  and  among  them  were  new  ballads  by  himself 
and  some  of  his  friends. 

The  book  was  only  a  moderate  success,  but  in  it  we 
may  find  the  germ  of  all  Scott's  later  triumphs.  For  it 
was  the  spirit  of  these  ballads  with  which  his  mind  was  so 
full  which  made  it  possible  for  him  to  write  the  Metrical 
Romances  that  made  him  famous. 

It  is  now  many  chapters  since  we  spoke  of  Metrical 
Romances.     They  were,   you  remember,   the  chief  litera- 


THE  AWAKENING  OF   ROMANCE       585 

tiire  from  the  twelfth  to  the  fifteenth  century,  ^A'hich  time 
was  also  the  time  of  the  early  ballads.  And  now  that 
people  had  begun  again  to  see  the  beauty  of  ballads,  they 
were  ready  also  to  turn  again  to  the  simplicity  of  Metrical 
Romances.  These  rime  stories  which  Scott  now  began  to 
write,  burst  on  our  Island  with  the  splendor  of  something 
new,  and  yet  it  was  simply  the  old-time  spirit  in  which 
Scott  had  steeped  himself,  which  found  a  new  birth — a 
Ilenascence.  Scott  was  a  stalwart  Border  chieftain  born 
out  of  time.  But  as  another  writer  says,  instead  of  harry- 
ing cattle  and  cracking  crowns,  this  Border  chief  was 
appointed  to  be  the  song-singer  and  pleasant  tale-teller 
to  Britain  and  to  Europe.  "It  was  the  time  for  such  a 
new  literature;  and  this  Walter  Scott  was  the  man  for  it."  ^ 

"The  mightiest  chiefs  of  British  song 
Scorn'd  not  such  legends  to  prolong: 
They  gleam  through  Spenser's  elfin  dream. 
And  mix  in  Milton's  heavenly  theme."  ^ 

The  first  of  Scott's  song  stories  was  called  The  Lay  of 
the  Last  Minstrel.  In  it  he  pictures  an  old  minstrel,  the 
last  of  all  his  race,  wandering  neglected  and  despised  about 
the  countryside.  But  at  Newark  Castle,  the  seat  of  the 
Duchess  of  Buccleuch,  he  receives  kindly  entertainment. 

"When  kindness  had  his  wants  supplied. 
And  the  old  man  was  gratified. 
Began  to  rise  his  minstrel  pride: 
And  he  began  to  talk  anon. 
Of  good  Earl  Francis,  dead  and  gone. 
And  of  Earl  Walter,  rest  him,  God! 
A  braver  ne'er  to  battle  rode; 
And  how  full  many  a  tale  he  knew. 
Of  the  old  warriors  of  Buccleuch; 
And,  would  the  noble  Duchess  deign 
To  listen  to  an  old  man's  strain, 

*  Carlyle.  '  Marmion. 


586  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Though  stiiF  his  hand,  his  voice  though  weak, 
He  thought  even  yet,  the  sooth  to  speak. 
That,  if  she  loved  the  harp  to  hear. 
He  could  make  music  to  her  ear." 

This  humble  boon  was  granted.  The  minstrel  was  led 
to  the  room  of  state  where  sat  the  noble-hearted  Duchess 
with  her  ladies,  and  there  began  his  lay.  You  must  read 
The  Lai)  itself  to  learn  about  William  of  Deloraine,  the 
Goblin  Page,  the  Lady  Margaret,  and  Lord  Cranstoun, 
and  all  the  rest.  The  meter  in  which  Scott  wrote  was 
taken  from  Coleridge's  Christabel.  For,  though  it  was 
not  yet  published,  it  had  long  been  in  manuscript,  and 
Scott  had  heard  part  of  it  repeated  by  a  friend. 

The  Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel  was  a  success.  From 
henceforth  Scott  was  an  author.  But  he  had  no  need  to 
write  for  money,  as  money  came  to  him  in  other  ways. 
So  none  of  the  struggles  of  a  rising  author  fell  to  his  lot. 
His  career  was  simply  a  triumphant  march.  And  good- 
natured,  courteous,  happy-hearted  Scott  took  his  triumphs 
joyously. 

Other  poems  followed  The  Lay,  the  best  being  Marmion 
and  The  Lady  of  the  Lake.  Scott's  son-in-law  says,  ''The 
Lay  is,  I  should  say,  generally  considered  as  the  most 
natural  and  original,  Marmion  as  the  most  powerful  and 
splendid.  The  Lady  of  the  Lake  as  the  most  interesting, 
romantic,  picturesque,  and  graceful  of  his  great  poems." 
Fame  and  money  poured  in  upon  Scott,  and  not  upon  him 
only,  but  upon  Scotland.  For  the  new  poet  had  sung  the 
beauties  of  the  rugged  country  so  well  that  hundreds  of 
English  flocked  to  see  it  for  themselves.  Scotland  became 
the  fashion,  and  has  remained  so  ever  since. 

In  1799  Scott  had  been  appointed  Sheriff-deputy 
of  Selkirkshire,  and  as  this  obliged  him  to  live  part  of  the 
year  at  least  in  the  district,  he  rented  a  house  not  far  from 
Selkirk.     But  now  that  he  saw  himself  becoming  wealthy, 


THE   AWAKENING   OF   ROMANCE       587 

he  bought  an  estate  in  his  beloved  Border  country  and 
began  to  build  the  house  of  Abbotsford.  To  this  house 
he  and  his  family  removed  in  May  1812.  Here,  amid  the 
noise  of  carpenters  and  masons,  with  only  one  room  fit 
to  sit  in,  and  that  shared  by  chattering  children,  he  went 
on  with  his  work.  To  a  friend  he  writes,  "As  for  the  house 
and  the  poem,  there  are  twelve  masons  hammering  at 
the  one,  and  one  poor  noddle  at  the  other — so  they  are 
both  in  progress." 

It  was  at  Abbotsford  that  Scott  made  his  home  for 
the  rest  of  his  life.  Here  he  put  off  the  gown  and  wig  of 
a  barrister,  and  played  the  part  of  a  country  gentleman. 
He  rode  about  accompanied  by  his  children  and  his  friends, 
and  followed  by  his  dogs.  He  fished,  and  walked,  and 
learned  to  know  every  one  around,  high  and  low.  He  was 
beloved  by  all  the  countryside,  for  he  was  kindly  and 
courteous  to  all,  and  was  "aye  the  gentleman."  He  would 
sit  and  talk  with  a  poor  man  in  his  cottage,  listening  to 
his  tales  of  long  ago,  Avith  the  same  ease  and  friendliness 
as  he  would  entertain  the  great  in  his  own  beautiful  house. 
And  that  house  was  always  thronged  with  visitors,  invited 
and  uninvited,  with  friends  who  came  out  of  love  of  the 
genial  host,  with  strangers  who  came  out  of  curiosity 
to  see  the  great  novelist.  For  great  as  was  Scott's  fame 
as  a  poet,  it  was  nothing  to  the  fame  he  earned  as  a  story- 
teller. 

The  first  story  he  published  was  called  Waverley,  or 
^Tis  Sixty  Years  Since.  He  had  begun  to  write  this  tale 
years  before,  but  had  put  it  aside  as  some  of  his  friends 
did  not  think  well  of  it.  One  day  he  came  upon  the 
manuscript  by  accident,  thought  himself  that  the  story 
was  worth  something,  and  resolved  to  publish  it.  Finish- 
ing the  writing  in  three  weeks  he  published  the  novel 
without  putting  his  name  upon  the  title-page.  He  did  this, 
he  said,  because  he  thought  it  was  not  quite  dignified  for 


588  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

a  grave  advocate  and  Sheriff  of  the  county  to  write  novels. 
The  book  was  a  wild  success,  everybody  read  it,  everybody 
was  eager  to  know  who  the  author  was.  Many  people 
guessed  that  it  was  Scott,  but,  for  more  than  ten  years, 
he  would  not  own  to  it.  At  public  dinners  when  the  health 
of  the  author  of  Waverley  was  drunk,  people  would  look 
meaningly  at  Scott,  but  he  would  appear  quite  uncon- 
cerned, and  drink  the  health  arid  cheer  with  the  rest.  To 
keep  the  mystery  up  he  even  reviewed  his  own  books.  And 
so  curiosity  grew.  Who  was  this  Great  Unknown,  this 
Wizard  of  the  North? 

Waverley  is  a  story  of  Jacobite  times,  of  the  rebellion 
of  '45.  The  hero,  Edward  Waverley,  who  is  no  such  great 
hero  either,  his  author  calling  him  indeed  "a  sneaking 
piece  of  imbecility,"  gives  his  name  to  the  book.  He 
meets  Bonnie  Prince  Charlie,  is  present  at  the  famous 
ball  at  Holyrood,  fights  at  the  battle  of  Prestonpans,  and 
marches  with  the  rebel  army  into  England. 

Thus  we  have  the  beginning  of  the  historical  novel. 
Scott  takes  real  people,  and  real  incidents,  and  with  them 
he  interweaves  the  story  of  the  fortunes  of  make-believe 
people  and  make-believe  incidents.  Scott  does  not  always 
keep  quite  strictly  to  facts.  He  is  of  the  same  mind  as 
the  old  poet  Davenant  who  thought  it  folly  to  take  away 
the  liberty  of  a  poet  and  fetter  his  feet  in  the  shackles 
of  an  historian.  Why,  he  asked,  should  a  poet  not  make 
and  mend  a  story  and  frame  it  more  delightfully,  merely 
because  austere  historians  have  entered  into  a  bond  to 
truth.  So  Scott  takes  liberties  with  history,  but  he  always 
gives  us  the  spirit  of  the  times  of  which  he  writes.  Thus 
in  one  sense  he  is  true  to  history.  And  perha^^s  from 
Waverley  we  get  a  better  idea  of  the  state  of  Scotland,  at 
the  time  of  the  last  Jacobite  rebellion,  than  from  any 
number  of  histories.  In  the  next  chapter  Scott  himself 
shall  give  you  an  account  of  the  battle  of  Prestonpans. 


CHAPTER  LXXVIII 

SCOTT— "THE  WIZARD  OF  THE  NORTH" 

"The  army,  moving  by  its  right  from  off  the  ground  on» 
which  they  had  rested,  soon  entered  the  path  through  the 
morass,  conducting  their  march  with  astonishing  silence 
and  great  rapiditj^  The  mist  had  not  risen  to  the  higher 
grounds,  so  that  for  some  time  they  had  the  advantage 
of  starhght.  But  this  was  lost  as  the  stars  faded  before 
approaching  day,  and  the  head  of  the  marching  column, 
continuing  its  descent,  plunged  as  it  were  into  the  heavy 
ocean  of  fog,  which  rolled  its  white  waves  over  the  whole 
plain,  and  over  the  sea  by  which  it  was  bounded.  Some 
difficulties  were  now  to  be  encountered,  inseparable  from 
darkness,  a  narrow,  broken,  and  marshy  path,  and  the 
necessity  of  preserving  union  in  the  march.  These, 
however,  were  less  inconvenient  to  Highlanders,  from 
their  habits  of  life,  than  they  would  have  been  to  any 
other  troops,  and  they  continued  a  steady  and  swift 
movement. 

"The  clan  of  Fergus  had  now  gained  the  firm  plain, 
which  had  lately  borne  a  large  crop  of  corn.  But  the 
harvest  was  gathered  in,  and  the  expanse  was  unbroken 
by  trees,  bush,  or  interruption  of  any  kind.  The  rest  of 
the  army  were  following  fast,  when  they  heard  the  drums 
of  the  enemy  beat  the  general.  Surprise,  however,  had 
made  no  part  of  their  plan,  so  they  were  not  disconcerted 
by  this  intimation  that  the  foe  was  upon  his  guard  and 

589 


590  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

prepared   to    receive    them.      It   only   hastened   their    dis- 
positions for  the  combat,  which  were  very  simple. 

"  'Down  with  your  plaid,  Waverley,'  cried  Fergus, 
throwing  off  his  own;  'we'll  win  silks  for  our  tartans 
before  the  sun  is  above  the  sea.' 

"The  clansmen  on  every  side  stripped  their  plaids, 
prepared  their  arms,  and  there  was  an  awful  pause  of 
about  three  minutes,  during  which  the  men,  pulling  off 
their  bonnets,  raised  their  faces  to  heaven,  and  uttered 
a  short  prayer;  then  pulled  their  bonnets  over  their 
broM^s,  and  began  to  move  forward  at  first  slowly.  Waver- 
ley felt  his  heart  at  that  moment  throb  as  it  would  have 
burst  his  bosom.  It  was  not  fear,  it  was  not  ardour — it 
was  a  compound  of  both,  a  new  and  deeply  energetic 
impulse,  that  with  its  first  emotion  chilled  and  astounded, 
then  fevered  and  maddened  his  mind.  The  sounds 
around  him  combined  to  exalt  his  enthusiasm;  the  pipes 
played,  and  the  clans  rushed  forward,  each  in  its  own 
dark  column.  As  they  advanced  they  mended  their 
pace,  and  the  muttering  sounds  of  the  men  to  each  other 
began  to  swell  into  a  wild  cry.  At  this  moment,  the  sun, 
which  was  now  risen  above  the  horizon,  dispelled  the 
mist.  The  vapours  rose  like  a  curtain,  and  showed  the 
two  armies  in  the  act  of  closing.  The  line  of  the  regulars 
was  formed  directly  fronting  the  attack  of  the  Highlanders ; 
it  glittered  with  the  appointments  of  a  complete  army, 
and  was  flanked  by  cavalry  and  artillery.  But  the  sight 
impressed  no  terror  on  the  assailants. 

"  'Forward,  sons  of  Ivor,'  cried  their  chief,  'or  the 
Camerons  w^ill  draw  the  first  blood!'  They  rushed  on 
with  a  tremendous  yell. 

"The  rest  is  well  known.  The  horse,  who  were  com- 
manded to  charge  the  advancing  Highlanders  in  the  flank, 
received  an  irregular  fire  from  their  fusees  as  they  ran  on, 


"THE  WIZARD  OF  THE  NORTH"         591 

and,  seized  with  a  disgraceful  panic,  wavered,  halted,  dis- 
banded, and  galloped  from  the  field.  The  artillerymen, 
deserted  by  the  cavalry,  fled  after  discharging  their  pieces, 
and  the  Highlanders,  who  dropped  their  guns  when  fired, 
and  drew  their  broadswords,  rushed  with  headlong  fury 
against  the  infantry. 

"The  English  infantry,  trained  in  the  wars  in  Flanders, 
stood  their  ground  with  great  courage.  But  their  extended 
files  were  pierced  and  broken  in  many  places  by  the  close 
masses  of  the  clans;  and  in  the  personal  struggle  which 
ensued,  the  nature  of  the  Highlanders'  weapons,  and  their 
extraordinary  fierceness  and  activity,  gave  them  a  decided 
superiority  over  those  who  had  been  accustomed  to  trust 
much  to  their  array  and  discipline,  and  felt  that  the  one 
was  broken  and  the  other  useless. 

"Loud  shouts  now  echoed  over  the  whole  field.  The 
battle  was  fought  and  won,  and  the  whole  baggage, 
artillery,  and  military  stores  of  the  regular  army  remained 
in  possession  of  the  victors.  Never  was  a  victory  more 
complete." 

Such  is  Scott's  picture  of  the  battle  of  Prestonpans. 
And  throughout  the  whole  book  we  have  wonderful 
pictures  of  Scottish  life  as  it  then  was — pictures  of  robbers' 
caves,  and  chieftains'  halls,  of  the  chiefs  themselves,  and 
their  followers,  of  mountain,  loch,  and  glen,  all  drawn 
with  such  a  true  and  living  touch  that  we  cannot  forget 
them. 

After  Waverley  other  novels  followed  fast,  each  one 
adding  to  the  reputation  of  the  unknown  author,  and 
now,  from  the  name  of  the  first,  we  call  them  all  the 
Waverley  Novels. 

Scott's  was  one  of  the  most  wonderful  successes — 
23erhaps   the  most  wonderful — that  has  ever  been   known 


592  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

in  our  literature.  "As  long  as  Sir  Walter  Scott  wrote 
poetry,"  said  a  friend,  "there  was  neither  man  nor  woman 
ever  thought  of  either  reading  or  writing  anything  but 
poetry.  But  the  instant  that  he  gave  over  writing  poetry, 
there  was  neither  man  nor  woman  ever  read  it  more!  All 
turned  to  tales  and  novels."  ^ 

Everybody  read  The  Novels,  from  the  King  to  the 
shepherd.  Friends,  money,  and  fame  came  tumbling 
in  upon  the  author.  He  had  refused  to  be  made  Poet 
Laureate,  and  passed  the  honor  on  to  Southey,  but  he 
accepted  a  baronetcy.  He  added  wing  after  wing  to  his 
beautiful  house,  and  acre  after  acre  to  his  land,  and 
rejoiced  in  being  laird  of  Abbotsford. 

The  speed  with  which  Scott  wrote  was  marvelous. 
His  house  was  always  full  of  visitors,  yet  he  always  had 
time  to  entertain  them.  He  was  never  known  to  refuse 
to  see  a  friend,  gentle  or  simple,  and  was  courteous  even  to 
the  bores  who  daily  invaded  his  home.  He  had  unbounded 
energy.  He  rose  early  in  the  morning,  and  before  the 
rest  of  the  familj^  was  astir  had  finished  more  than  half 
of  his  daily  task  of  writing.  Thus  by  twelve  o'clock  he 
was  free  to  entertain  his  guests. 

If  ever  man  was  happy  and  succesful,  Scott  seemed 
to  be  that  man.  But  suddenly  all  his  fair  prospects  were 
darkened  over.  Sir  Walter  v/as  in  some  degree  a  partner 
in  the  business  both  of  his  publisher  and  his  printer. 
Now  both  publisher  and  printer  failed,  and  Scott  found 
himself  ruined  with  them.  At  fifty-five  he  was  not  only 
a  ruined  man,  but  loaded  with  a  terrible  debt  of  £117,000. 

It  was  a  staggering  blow,  and  most  men  would  have 
been  utterly  crushed  by  it.  Not  so  Scott.  He  was  proud, 
proud  of  his  old  name  and  of  his  new-founded  baronial 
hall.  He  was  stout  of  heart  too.  At  fifty-five  he 
began   life   again,    determined   with   his   pen   to   wipe   out 

'  James  Hogg. 


"THE  WIZARD  OF  THE  NORTH"         593 

the  debt.  ]\Iany  were  the  hands  stretched  out  to  help 
him;  rich  men  offered  their  thousands,  poor  men  their 
scanty  savings,  but  Scott  refused  help  from  both  rich  and 
poor.  His  own  hand  must  wipe  out  the  debt,  he  said. 
Time  was  all  he  asked.  So  with  splendid  courage  and 
determination,  the  like  of  which  has  perhaps  never  been 
known,  he  set  to  work. 

But  evil  days  had  begun  for  Sir  Walter.  Scarcely 
four  months  after  the  crash,  his  wife  died,  and  so  he  lost  a 
companion  of  nearly  thirty  years.  "I  think  my  heart 
will  break,"  he  cries  in  the  first  bitterness  of  sorrow. 
"Lonely,  aged,  deprived  of  my  family,  an  impoverished, 
an  embarrassed  man."  But  dogged  courage  comes  to 
him  again.  "Well,  that  is  over,  and  if  it  cannot  be 
forgotten  must  be  remembered  with  patience."  So  day 
after  day  he  bent  to  his  work.  Every  morning  saw  his 
appointed  task  done.  Besides  novels  and  articles  he 
wrote  a  History  of  Napoleon,  a  marvelous  book,  consider- 
ing it  was  written  in  eighteen  months. 

Then  Scott  began  the  book  which  will  be  the  first  of  all 
his  books  to  interest  you,  Tlie  Tales  of  a  Grandfather.  This 
is  a  history  of  Scotland,  and  it  was  written  for  his  grandson 
John  Hugh  Lockhart,  or  Hugh  Little  John  as  he  is  called 
in  The  Tales.  "I  will  make,"  said  Scott,  "if  possible,  a 
book  that  a  child  shall  understand,  yet  a  man  shall  feel 
some  temptation  to  peruse  should  he  chance  to  take  it  up." 

Hugh  Little  John  was  a  delicate  boy,  indeed  he  had  not 
long  to  live,  but  many  a  happy  day  he  spent,  this  summer 
(1827),  riding  about  the  woods  of  Abbotsford  with  his 
kind  grandfather,  listening  to  the  tales  he  told.  For 
Scott,  too,  the  rides  were  a  joy,  and  helped  to  make  him 
forget  his  troubles.  When  he  had  told  his  tale  in  such  a 
simple  way  that  Littlejohn  understood,  he  returned  home 
and  wrote  it  down. 

In  the  December  of  the  same  year  the  first  part  of  The 


594  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Tales  was  published,  and  at  once  was  a  tremendous 
success,  a  success  as  great  almost  as  any  of  the  novels. 
Plugh  Littlejohn  liked  The  Tales  too.  "Dear  Grandpapa," 
he  writes,  "I  thank  you  for  the  books.  I  like  my  own 
picture  and  the  Scottish  chief:  I  am  going  to  read  them 
as  fast  as  I  can." 

Two  more  volumes  of  Tales  followed.  Then  there 
was  no  need  to  write  more  for  the  dearly  loved  grandson, 
as  a  year  or  two  later,  when  he  was  only  eleven,  poor 
Littlejohn  died.  But  already  the  kind  grandfather  was 
near  his  end  also,  the  tremendous  effort  which  he  made 
to  force  himself  to  work  beyond  his  strength  could  not  be 
kept  up.  His  health  broke  down  under  it.  Still  he 
struggled  on,  but  at  last,  yielding  to  his  friends'  entreaties, 
he  went  to  Italy  in  search  of  health  and  strength.  It 
gives  us  some  idea  of  the  high  place  Sir  Walter  had  won 
for  himself  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  when  we  learn  that 
his  health  seemed  a  national  concern,  and  that  a  warship 
was  sent  to  take  him  on  his  journey.  But  the  journey 
was  of  no  avail.  Among  the  great  hills  and  blue  lakes  of 
Italy  Scott  longed  for  the  lesser  hills  and  grayer  lochs  of 
Scotland.  So  he  turned  homewards.  And  at  home,  in 
his  beloved  Abbotsford,  in  the  still  splendor  of  an  autumn 
day,  with  the  meadow-scented  air  he  loved  fanning  his 
face,  and  the  sound  of  rippling  Tweed  in  his  ears,  he 
closed  his  eyes  for  ever.  In  the  grass-grown  ruin  of 
Dryburgh  Abbey,  not  far  from  his  home,  he  was  laid  to 
rest,  while  the  whole  countryside  mourned  Sir  Walter. 

Before  he  died  Scott  had  paid  £70,000  of  his  debt, 
an  enormous  sum  for  one  man  to  make  by  his  pen  in  six 
years.  He  died  in  the  happy  belief  that  all  was  paid,  as 
indeed  it  all  was.  For  after  the  author's  death,  his  books 
still  brought  in  a  great  deal  of  money,  so  that  in  fifteen 
years  the  debt  was  wiped  out. 

I  have  not  told  you  any  of  Scott's  stories  here,  because. 


"THE  WIZARD  OF  THE  NORTH"         595 

unlike  many  of  the  books  we  have  spoken  of,  they  are 
easily  to  be  had.  And  the  time  will  soon  come,  if  it  has 
not  come  already,  when  you  can  read  Sir  Walter's  books, 
just  as  he  wrote  them.  It  is  best,  I  think,  that  you  should 
read  them  so,  for  Sir  Walter  Scott  is  perhaps  the  first  of 
all  our  great  writers  nearly  the  whole  of  whose  books  a 
child  can  read  without  help.  You  will  find  many  long 
descriptions  in  them,  but  do  not  let  them  frighten  you. 
You  need  not  read  them  all  the  first  time,  and  very  likely 
you  will  want  to  read  them  the  second  time. 

But  perhaps  before  you  read  his  novels  you  will  like  to 
read  his  Metrical  Romances.  For  when  we  are  children — 
big  children  perhaps,  but  still  children — is  the  time  to 
read  them.  Long  ago  in  the  twelfth  century,  when  the 
people  of  England  were  simple  and  unlearned,  they  loved 
INIetrical  Romances,  and  we  when  we  are  simple  and 
unlearned  may  love  them  too.  JManj^  of  these  old  romances, 
howcA^er,  are  hard  to  get,  and  they  are  written  in  a  language 
hard  for  many  of  us  to  understand.  But  Sir  Walter 
Scott,  in  the  nineteenth  century,  has  recreated  for  us  all 
the  charm  of  those  old  tales.  For  this  then,  let  us  thank 
and  remember  him. 

"His  legendary  song  could  tell 
Of  ancient  deeds^  so  long  forgot; 
Of  feuds,  Avhose  memory  was  not; 
Of  forests,  now  laid  waste  and  bare; 
Of  towers,  which  harbour  now  the  hare; 
Of  manners,  long  since  chang'd  and  gone; 
Of  chiefs,  who  under  their  grey  stone 
So  long  had  slept,  that  fickle  Fame 
Had  blotted  from  her  rolls  their  name, 
And  twin'd  round  some  new  minion's  head 
The  fading  wreath  for  which  they  bled."  ^ 

^ Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel. 


CHAPTER  LXXIX 

BYRON— "CHILDE  HAROLD'S  PILGRIMAGE" 

When  Sir  Walter  Scott  ceased  to  write  Metrical  Ro- 
mances, he  said  it  was  because  Byron  had  beaten  him.  But 
the  metrical  romances  of  these  two  poets  are  widely  dif- 
ferent. With  Sir  Walter  we  are  up  among  the  hills,  out  on 
the  wide  moorland.  With  him  we  tramp  the  heather,  and 
ford  the  rushing  streams;  his  poems  are  full  of  healthy, 
generous  life.  With  Byron  we  seem  rather  to  be  in  the 
close  air  of  a  theater.  His  poems  do  not  tell  of  a  rough 
and  vigorous  life,  but  of  luxury  and  softness;  of  tyrants 
and  slaves,  of  beautiful  houris  and  dreadful  villains. 
And  in  the  villains  we  always  seem  to  see  Byron  himself, 
who  tries  to  impress  us  with  the  fact  that  he  is  indeed  a 
very  "bold,  bad  man."  In  his  poetry  there  is  something 
artificial,  which  takes  us  backward  to  the  time  of  Pope, 
rather  than  forward  with  the  nature  poets. 

The  boyhood  of  George  Gordon  Byron  was  a  sad  one. 
He  came  of  an  ancient  and  noble  family,  but  one  which 
in  its  later  generations  had  become  feeble  almost  to  mad- 
ness. His  father,  who  was  called  JNIad  Jack,  was  wild 
and  worthless,  his  mother  was  a  wealthy  woman,  but 
weak  and  passionate,  and  in  a  short  time  after  her  marriage 
her  husband  spent  nearly  all  her  money.  Mrs.  Byi'on  then 
took  her  little  baby  and  went  to  live  quietly  in  Aberdeen 
on  what  was  left  of  her  fortune. 

She  was  a  weak  and  passionate  woman,  and  sometimes 
she  petted  and  spoiled  her  little  boy,  sometimes  she  treated 

696 


"CHILDE  HAROLD'S  PILGRIMAGE"      597 

him  cruelly,  calling  him  "a  lame  brat,"  than  which  nothing 
could  hurt  him  more,  for  poor  little  George  was  born  lame, 
and  all  his  life  long  he  felt  sore  and  angry  about  it.  To 
him  too  had  been  given  the  passionate  temper  of  both 
father  and  mother,  and  when  he  was  angry  he  would 
fall  into  "silent  rages,"  bite  pieces  out  of  saucers,  or  tear 
his  pinafores  to  bits. 

Meanwhile,  while  in  Aberdeen  Mrs.  Byron  struggled 
to  live  on  £130  a  year,  in  Newstead  Abbey,  near  Notting- 
ham, there  lived  a  queer,  half-mad,  old  grand-uncle,  who 
had  earned  for  himself  the  name  of  "the  wicked  lord." 
He  knew  well  enough  that  when  he  died  the  little  boy  in 
Aberdeen,  with  the  pretty  face  and  lame  foot,  would 
become  Lord  Byron.  He  might  have  taken  some  interest 
in  his  nephew,  and  seen  at  least  that  he  w^as  sent  to  school, 
and  given  an  education  to  fit  him  for  his  future  place  in 
the  world.  But  that  was  not  "the  wicked  lord's"  way. 
He  paid  no  attention  to  the  little  boy  in  Aberdeen.  Indeed, 
it  is  said  that  he  hated  him,  and  that  he  cut  down  his 
trees  and  despoiled  Newstead  as  much  as  he  could,  in 
order  to  leave  his  heir  as  poor  a  heritage  as  possible. 

But  when  George  was  ten  this  old  uncle  died.  Then 
mother  and  son  said  good-by  to  Aberdeen,  and  traveled 
southwards  to  take  possession  of  their  great  house  and 
broad  lands.  But  the  heritage  was  not  so  great  as  at 
first  sight  would  appear,  for  the  house  was  so  ruinous  that 
it  was  scarcely  fit  to  live  in,  and  the  wicked  lord  had  sold 
some  of  the  land.  However,  as  the  sale  was  unlawful, 
after  much  trouble  the  land  was  recovered. 

Byron  had  now  to  take  his  place  among  boys  of  his 
own  class,  and  when  he  was  thirteen  he  was  sent  to  school 
at  Harrow.  But  he  hated  school.  He  was  shj^  as  "a  wild 
mountain  colt"  and  somewhat  snobbish,  and  at  first  was 
most  unpopular. 

As  he  says  himself,  however,  he  "fought  his  way  very 


598  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

fairly"  and  he  formed  some  friendships,  passionately,  as 
he  did  everything.  In  spite  of  his  lameness,  he  was  good 
at  sports,  especially  at  swimming.  He  was  brave,  and 
even  if  his  snobbishness  earned  for  him  the  nickname  of 
the  "Old  English  Baron,"  his  comrades  admired  his  spirit, 
and  in  the  end,  instead  of  being  unpopular,  he  led — often 
to  mischief.  "I  was,"  he  says,  "always  cricketing — ■ 
rebelling — fighting,  rowing  (from  row,  not  hoat-vo^\mg,  a 
different  practice),  and  in  all  manner  of  mischiefs."  Yet, 
wild  though  he  was,  of  his  headmaster  he  ever  kept  a 
kindly  remembrance.  "Dr.  Drury,"  he  says,  "whom  I 
plagued  sufficiently  too,  was  the  best,  the  kindest  friend 
I  ever  had." 

Byron  hated  Harrow  until  his  last  year  and  a  half 
there;  then  he  liked  it.  And  when  he  knew  he  must  leave 
and  go  to  Cambridge,  he  was  so  unhappy  that  he  counted 
the  days  that  remained,  not  with  joy  at  the  thought  of 
leaving,  but  with  sorrow. 

At  Cambridge  he  felt  himself  lonely  and  miserable  at 
first,  as  he  had  at  school.  But  there  too  he  soon  made 
friends.  He  found  plenty  of  time  for  games,  he  rode  and 
shot,  rejoiced  in  feats  of  swimming  and  diving.  He 
wrote  poetry  also,  which  he  afterwards  published  under 
the  name  of  Hours  of  Idleness.  It  was  a  good  name  for 
the  book,  for  indeed  he  was  so  idle  in  his  proper  studies, 
that  the  wonder  is  that  he  was  able  to  take  his  degree. 

It  was  in  1807,  at  the  age  of  nineteen,  that  Lord  Byron 
published  his  Hours  of  Idleness,  with  a  rather  pompous 
preface.  The  poems  were  not  great,  some  of  them  indeed 
were  nothing  less  than  mawkish,  but  perhaps  they  did 
not  deserve  the  slashing  review  which  appeared  in  the 
Edinburgh  Review.  The  Edinhurgli  Review  was  a  maga- 
zine given  at  this  time  to  criticising  authors  very  severely, 
and  Byron  had  to  suffer  no  more  than  other  and  greater 
poets.     But  he  trembled  with  indignation,  and  his  anger 


"CHILDE    HAROLD'S    PILGRIMAGE"     599 

called  forth  his  first  really  good  poem,  called  English  Bards 
and  Scotch  Reviewers.  It  is  a  satire  after  the  style  of 
Pope,  and  in  it  Byron  lashes  not  only  his  reviewers,  but 
also  other  writers  of  his  day.  His  criticisms  are,  many  of 
them,  quite  wrong,  and  in  after  years  when  he  came  to 
know  the  men  he  now  decried,  he  regretted  this  poem,  and 
declared  it  should  never  be  printed  again.  But  it  is  still 
included  in  his  works.  Perhaps  having  just  read  about 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  it  may  amuse  you  to  read  what  Byron 
has  to  say  of  him. 

"Thus  Lays  of  Minstrels — may  they  be  the  last! — 
On  half-strung  harps  whine  mournful  to  the  blast. 
While  mountain  spirits  prate  to  river  sprites, 
That  dames  may  listen  to  the  sound  at  nights; 

Next  view  in  state,  proud  prancing  on  his  roan. 

The  golden-crested  haughty  Marmion, 

Now  forging  scrolls,  now  foremost  in  the  fight. 

Not  quite  a  felon,  yet  but  half  a  knight. 

The  gibbet  or  the  field  prepared  to  grace; 

A  mighty  mixture  of  the  great  and  base. 

And  think'st  thou,  Scott !  by  vain  conceit  perchance. 

On  public  taste  to  foist  thy  stale  romance." 

Then  after  a  sneer  at  Scott  for  making  money  by  his 
poems,  Byron  concludes  with  this  passage: — 

"These  are  the  themes  that  claim  our  plaudits  now; 
These  are  the  bards  to  whom  the  muse  must  bow; 
While  ]\Iilton,  Dryden,  Pope,  alike  forgot, 
Resign  their  hallowed  bays  to  Walter  Scott." 

When  j^^ople  read  this  satire,  they  realized  that  a 
new  poet  had  appeared.  But  it  was  not  until  Byron 
published  his  first  long  poem,  called  ChiJde  Harold's 
Pilgrimage,  that  he  became  famous.  Then  his  success 
was  sudden  and  amazing.  "I  woke  up  one  morning  and 
found  myself  famous,"  he  says.     "His  fame,"  says  another 


600  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

poet  and  friend  who  wrote  his  life/  "seemed  to  spring  up 
like  the  palace  of  a  fairy  tale,  in  a  night."  He  was  praised 
and  lauded  by  high  and  low.  Every  one  was  eager  to 
know  him,  and  for  a  time  he  became  the  spoiled  darling 
of  societj^ 

Childe  Harold  is  a  long  poem  of  four  cantos,  but  now 
only  two  cantos  were  published.  The  third  was  added 
in  1816,  the  fourth  in  1818.  It  is  written  in  the  Spen- 
serian stanza,  with  here  and  there  songs  and  ballads  in 
other  meters,  and  in  the  first  few  verses  there  is  even  an 
affectation  of  Spenserian  wording.  But  the  poet  soon 
grew  tired  of  that,  and  returned  to  his  own  English. 
Childe  is  used  in  the  ancient  sense  of  knight,  and  the  poem 
tells  of  the  wanderings  of  a  gloomy,  vicious,  world-wom 
man. 

There  is  very  little  story  in  Childe  Harold.  The 
poem  is  more  a  series  of  descriptions  and  a  record  of  the 
thoughts  that  are  called  forth  by  the  places  through  which 
the  traveler  passes.  It  is  indeed  a  poetic  diary.  The 
pilgrim  visits  many  famous  spots,  among  them  the  field 
of  Waterloo,  where  but  a  few  months  before  the  fate  of 
Europe  had  been  decided.  To  us  the  battle  of  Waterloo 
is  a  long  way  off.  To  Byron  it  was  still  a  deed  of  yester- 
day. As  he  approaches  the  field  he  feels  that  he  is  on 
sacred  ground. 

"Stop ! — for  thy  tread  is  on  an  Empire's  dust ! 
An  Earthquake's  spoil  is  sepulchred  below ! 
Is  the  spot  marked  with  no  colossal  bust? 
Nor  column  trophied   for  triumphal  show? 
None;  but  the  moral's  truth  tells  simpler  so. 
As  the  ground  was  before,  thus  let  it  be; — 
How  that  red  rain  hath  made  the  harvest  grow ! 
And  is  this  all  the  world  has  gain'd  by  thee. 
Thou  first  and  last  of  fields!  kingmaking  victory?" 

*  Moore. 


"CHILDE    HAROLD'S    PILGRIMAGE"     601 

Then  in  thought  Byron  goes  over  all  that  took  place 
that  fateful  day. 

"There  was  a  sound  of  revelry  by  night, 
And  Belgium's  capital  had  gather'd  then 
Her  beauty  and  her  chivalry,  and  bright 
The  lamps  shone  o'er  fair  women  and  brave  men; 
A  thousand  hearts  beat  happily;  and  when 
Music  arose  with  its  voluptuous  swell, 
Soft  eyes  look'd  love  to  eyes  which  spake  again, 
And  all  went  merry  as  a  marriage  bell; 
But  hush!  hark!  a  deep  sound  strikes  a  rising  knell! 

"Did  ye  not  hear  it? — No;  'twas  but  the  wind. 
Or  the  car  rattling  o'er  the  stony  street; 
On  with  the  dance!  let  joy  be  unconfined; 
No  sleep  till  morn,  when  Youth  and  Pleasure  meet 
To  chase  the  glowing  hours  with  flying  feet. 
But  hark ! — that  heavy  sound  breaks  in  once  more. 
As  if  the  clouds  its  echo  would  repeat; 
And  nearer,  clearer,  deadlier  than  before ! 
Arm !  arm  !  it  is — it  is — the  cannon's  opening  roar ! 

"Ah !  then  and  there  was  hurrying  to  and  fro. 
And  gathering  tears,  and  tremblings  of  distress. 
And  cheeks  all  pale,  which  but  an  hour  ago 
Blush'd  at  the  praise  of  their  own  loveliness; 
And  there  were  sudden  partings,  such  as  press 
The  life  from  out  young  hearts,  and  choking  sighs 
Which  ne'er  might  be  repeated ;  who  could  guess 
If  ever  more  should  meet  those  mutual  eyes. 
Since  upon  night  so  sweet  such  awful  morn  could  rise ! 

"And  there  was  mounting  in  hot  haste;  the  steed. 
The  mustering  squadron,  and  the  clattering  car. 
Went  pouring  forward  with  impetuous  speed. 
And  swiftly  forming  in  the  ranks  of  war; 
And  the  deep  thunder  peal  on  peal  afar; 
And  near,  the  beat  of  the  alarming  drum 
Roused  up  the  soldier  ere  the  morning  star ; 
While  throng'd  the  citizens  with  terror  dumb. 
Or  whispering,  with  white  lips — 'The  foe  !  they  come  !  thc}^  come !'  " 


602  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

And  then  thinking  of  the  battle  lost  by  the  great  conqueror 
of  Europe,  the  poet  mourns  for  him — 

"Conqueror  and  captive  of  the  earth  art  thou ! 
She  trembles  at  thee  still,  and  thy  wild  name 
Was  ne'er  more  bruited  in  men's  minds  than  now 
That  thou  are  nothing,  save  the  jest  of  Fame, 
Who  woo'd  thee  once,  thy  vassal,  and  became 
The  flatterer  of  thy  fierceness,  till  thou  wert 
A  god  unto  thyself;  nor  less  the  same 
To  thee  astounded  kingdoms  all  inert, 
Who  deem'd  thee  for  a  time  whate'er  thou  didst  assert. 

"Oh,  more  or  less  than  man — in  high  or  low. 
Battling  with  nations,  flying  from  the  field; 
Now  making  monarchs'  necks  thy  footstool,  now 
More  than  thy  meanest  soldier  taught  to  yield; 
An  empire  thou  couldst  crush,  command,  rebuild. 
But  govern  not  thy  pettiest  passion,  nor. 
However  deeply  in  men's  spirits  skill'd. 
Look  through  thine  own,  nor  curb  the  lust  of  war. 
Nor  learn  that  tempted  Fate  will  leave  the  loftiest  Star." 

These  are  a  few  verses  from  one  of  the  best  known  parts 
of  Childe  Harold.  There  are  manj^  other  verses  equally 
well  known.  They  have  become  the  possession  of  almost 
every  schoolboy.  Some  of  them  you  will  read  in  school 
books,  and  when  you  are  grown  up  and  able  to  distinguish 
between  what  is  vulgar  and  what  is  good  and  beautiful 
in  it,  I  hope  you  will  read  the  whole  poem. 

For  two  years  Byron  was  as  popular  as  man  might  be. 
Then  came  a  change.  From  the  time  that  he  was  a  child 
he  had  always  been  in  love,  first  with  one  and  then  with 
another.  His  heart  was  tinder,  ever  ready  to  take  fire. 
Xow  he  married.  At  first  all  went  well.  One  little  baby 
girl  was  born.  Then  troubles  came,  troubles  which  have 
never  been  explained,  and  for  which  we  need  not  seek  an 
explanation  now,  and  one  day  Lady  Byron  left  her  hus- 
band never  to  return. 


"CHILDE    HAROLD'S    PILGRIMAGE"     603 

The  world  which  had  petted  and  spoiled  the  poet  now 
turned  from  the  man.  He  was  abused  and  decried; 
instead  of  being  courted  he  was  shunned.  So  in  anger  and 
disgust,  Byron  left  the  country  where  he  found  no  sym- 
pathy. He  never  returned  to  it,  the  rest  of  his  life  being 
spent  as  a  wanderer  upon  the  Continent. 

It  was  to  a  great  extent  a  misspent  life,  and  yet, 
while  Byron  wasted  himself  in  unworthy  ways,  he  wrote 
constantly  and  rapidly,  pouring  out  volumes  of  poetry 
at  a  speed  equaled  only  by  Scott,  He  wrote  tragedies, 
metrical  romances,  lyrics,  and  everything  that  he  wrote 
was  read — not  only  at  home,  but  on  the  Continent.  And 
one  thing  that  we  must  remember  Byron  for  is  that  he 
made  English  literature  Continental.  "Before  he  came," 
says  an  Italian  patriot  and  writer,^  "all  that  was  known 
of  English  literature  was  the  French  translation  of  Shake- 
speare. It  is  since  Byron  that  we  Continentalists  have 
learned  to  study  Shakespeare  and  other  English  writers. 
From  him  dates  the  sympathy  of  all  the  true-hearted 
amongst  us  for  this  land  of  liberty.  He  led  the  genius 
of  Britain  on  a  pilgrimage  throughout  all  Europe." 

Much  that  Byron  wrote  was  almost  worthless.  He 
has  none  of  the  haunting  sense  of  the  beauty  of  words 
in  perfect  order  that  marks  the  greatest  poets.  He  has 
no  passion  for  the  correct  use  of  words,  and  often  his 
song  seems  tuneless  and  sometimes  vulgar.  For  in 
Byron's  undisciplined,  turgid  soul  there  is  a  strain  of 
coarseness  and  vulgarity  which  not  seldom  shows  itself 
in  his  poetry,  spoiling  some  of  his  most  beautiful  lines. 
His  poetry  is  egotistical  too,  that  is,  it  is  full  of  himself. 
And  again  and  again  it  has  been  said  that  Byron  was 
always  his  own  hero.  "He  never  had  more  than  a  single 
subject — himself.  No  man  has  ever  pushed  egotism 
further  than  he."  ^    In  all  his  dark  and  gloomy  heroes  we 

^  Mazzini,  *  Scherer. 


604  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

see  Lord  Byron,  and  it  is  not  only  himself  which  he  gives 
to  the  world's  gaze,  but  his  wrongs  and  his  sorrows.  Yet 
in  spite  of  all  its  faults,  there  is  enough  that  is  purely 
beautiful  in  his  work  to  give  Byron  rank  as  a  poet.  He 
has  been  placed  on  a  level  with  Wordsworth.  One 
cultured  writer  whose  judgment  on  literature  we  listen 
to  with  respect  has  said:  "Wordsworth  and  Byron  stand 
out  by  themselves.  When  the  year  1900  is  turned, 
and  our  nation  comes  to  recount  her  poetic  glories  of  the 
century  which  has  then  just  ended,  the  first  names  with 
her  will  be  these."  ^  But  there  are  many  who  will  deny 
him  this  high  rank.  "He  can  only  claim  to  be  acknow- 
ledged as  a  poet  of  the  third  class,"  says  another  great 
poet,"  "who  now  and  then  rises  into  the  second,  but  speedily 
relapses  into  the  lower  element  where  he  was  born."  And 
yet  another  has  said  that  his  poetry  fills  the  great  space 
through  which  our  literature  has  moved  from  the  time  of 
Johnson  to  the  time  of  Wordsworth.  "It  touches  the  Essay 
of  Man  ^  at  the  one  extremity,  and  The  Excursion  at  the 
other."*  So  you  see  Byron's  place  in  our  literature  is 
hardly  settled  yet. 

When  Byron  left  England  he  fled  from  the  contempt  of 
his  fellows.  His  life  on  the  Continent  did  little  to  lessen 
that  contempt.  But  before  he  died  he  redeemed  his  name 
from  the  scorner. 

Long  ago,  you  remember,  at  the  time  of  the  Renais- 
sance, Greece  had  been  conquered  by  the  Turks.  Hun- 
dreds of  years  passed,  and  Greece  remained  in  a  state  of 
slavery.  But  by  degrees  new  life  began  to  stir  among  the 
people,  and  in  1821  a  war  of  independence  broke  out.  At 
first  the  other  countries  in  Europe  stood  aloof,  but  gradu- 
ally their  sympathies  were  drawn  to  the  little  nation 
making  so  gallant  a  fight  for  freedom. 

And  this  struggle  woke  all  that  was  generous  in  the 

*  Arnold.  ^  Swinburne.  ^  By  Pope.  *Macaulay. 


"CHILDE    HAROLD'S    PILGRIMAGE"     605 

heart  of  Byron,  the  worn  man  of  the  world.  Like  his  own 
Childe  Harold,  "With  pleasure  drugg'd  he  almost  long'd 
for  woe."  So  to  Greece  he  went,  and  the  last  nine  months 
of  his  life  were  spent  to  such  good  purpose  that  when  he 
died  the  whole  Greek  nation  mourned.  He  had  hoped  to 
die  sword  in  hand,  but  that  was  not  to  be.  His  body  was 
worn  with  reckless  living,  and  could  ill  bear  any  strain. 
One  day,  when  out  for  a  long  ride,  he  became  heated, 
and  then  soaked  by  a  shower  of  rain.  Rheumatic  fever 
followed,  and  ten  days  later  he  lay  dead.  He  was  only 
thirty-six. 

All  Greece  mourned  for  the  loss  of  such  a  generous 
friend.  Cities  vied  with  each  other  for  the  honor  of  his 
tomb.  And  when  his  friends  decided  that  his  body  should 
be  carried  home  to  England,  homage  as  to  a  prince  was 
paid  to  it  as  it  passed  through  the  streets  on  its  last 
journey. 

"The  sword,  the  banner,  and  the  field. 
Glory  and  Greece,  around  me  see! 
The  Spartan,  borne  upon  his  shield. 
Was  not  more  free. 

"Awake!  (not  Greece — she  is  awake!) 
Awake !  my  spirit !     Think  through  whom 
Thy  life-blood  tracks  its  parent  lake. 
And  then  strike  home ! 

"Tread  those  reviving  passions  down, 
Unworthy  manhood !  unto  thee 
Indifferent  should  the  smile  or  frown 
Of  Beauty  be. 

"If  thou  regrett'st  thy  youth,  whi/  live? 
The  land  of  honourable  death 
Is  here: — up  to  the  field,  and  give 
Away  thy  breath  I 


606  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"Seek  out — less  often  sought  than  found — 
A  soldier's  grave,  for  thee  the  best; 
Then  look  around,  and  choose  thy  ground 
And  take  thy  rest." 

These  lines  are  from  Byron's  last  poem,  written  on  his 
thirty-sixth  birthday. 


CHAPTER  LXXX 

SHELLEY— THE  POET  OF  LOVE 

When  Byron  wandered  upon  the  Continent  he  met  and 
made  friends  with  another  poet,  a  greater  than  himself. 
This  poet  was  called  Percy  Bysshe  Shelley,  and  of  him  I 
am  going  to  tell  you  something  in  this  chapter. 

On  the  4th  of  August,  1792,  Percy  Bysshe  Shelley 
was  born  at  Field  Place,  near  the  village  of  Warnham, 
in  Sussex.  His  father,  "a  well-meaning,  ill-doing,  wrong- 
headed  man,"  was  of  a  good  family,  and  heir  to  a  baronetcy. 
His  mother  was  a  beautiful  woman. 

Of  the  earlj"  childhood  of  Bysshe  we  know  nothing, 
except  that  at  the  age  of  six  he  was  daily  taught  Latin 
by  a  clergyman. 

When  we  next  hear  of  him  he  is  a  big  boy,  the  hero 
of  the  nursery  with  four  little  sisters,  and  a  wee,  toddling, 
baby  brother,  to  all  of  whom  he  loved  to  play  big  brother. 
His  sisters  would  often  sit  on  his  knee  and  listen  to  the 
wonderful  tales  he  told.  There  were  stories  of  the  Great 
Tortoise  which  lived  in  a  pond  near.  True,  the  Great 
Tortoise  was  never  seen,  but  that  made  it  all  the  more 
mysterious  and  wonderful,  and  any  unusual  noise  was 
put  down  to  the  Great  Tortoise.  There  were  other  stories 
about  the  Great  Old  Snake  which  lived  in  the  garden. 
This  reall}'-  was  seen,  and  perhaps  it  was  the  same  serpent 
which  two  hundred  years  before  had  been  known  to  lurk 
about  the  countryside.  "Pie  could  jut  out  his  neck  an  ell," 
it  was  said,  "and  cast  his  venom  about  four  rods;  a  serpent 

607 


608  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

of  countenance  very  proud,  at  the  sight  or  hearing  of  men 
or  cattle,  raising  his  head  seeming  to  listen  and  look  about 
with  great  arrogancy."  But  if  it  was  this  same  serpent  it 
had  lost  its  venom,  and  in  the  days  when  Bysshe  and  his 
sisters  played  about  the  garden,  they  looked  upon  it  as  a 
friend.  One  day,  however,  a  gardener  killed  it  by  mistake, 
when  he  was  cutting  the  grass  with  a  scythe.  So  there  was 
an  end  of  the  Great  Old  Snake.  But  the  Tortoise  and  the 
Snake  were  not  the  only  wonderful  things  about  Field 
Place.  There  was  a  big  garret  which  was  never  used, 
with  beneath  it  a  secret  room,  the  onlj^  entrance  to  which 
was  through  a  plank  in  the  garret  floor.  This,  according 
to  the  big  brother,  was  the  dwelling-place  of  an  alchemist 
"old  and  grey  with  a  long  beard."  Here  with  his  lamp 
and  magic  books  he  wrought  his  wonders,  and  "Some  day" 
the  eager  children  were  promised  a  visit  to  him.  Mean- 
while Bysshe  himself  played  the  alchemist,  and  with 
his  sisters  dressed  up  in  strange  costumes  to  represent 
fiends  or  spirits  he  ran  about  with  liquid  fire  until  this 
dangerous  play  was  stopped.  Then  he  made  an  electric 
battery  and  amused  himself  by  giving  his  sisters  "shocks" 
to  the  secret  terror  of  at  least  one  of  them  whose  heart 
would  sink  with  fear  when  she  saw  her  brother  appear 
with  a  roll  of  brown  paper,  a  bit  of  wire,  and  a  bottle. 
But  one  day  she  could  not  hide  her  terror  any  longer, 
and  after  that  the  kind  big  brother  never  worried  her  any 
more  to  have  shocks. 

Sometimes,  too,  their  games  took  them  further  afield, 
and  led  by  Bysshe  the  children  went  on  long  rambles 
through  woods  and  meadows,  climbing  walls  and  scramb- 
ling through  hedges,  and  coming  home  tired  and  muddy. 
Bysshe  was  so  happy  with  his  sisters  and  little  brother 
that  he  decided  to  buy  a  little  girl  and  bring  her  up  as 
his  own.  One  day  a  little  gypsy  girl  came  to  the  back 
door,  and  he  thought  she  would  do  very  well.     His  father 


THE    POET    OF    LOVE  609 

and  mother,  however,  thought  otherwise,  so  the  little 
girl  was  not  bought. 

But  the  boy  who  was  so  lively  with  his  sisters,  at  times 
was  quiet  and  thoughtful.  Sometimes  he  would  slip  out 
of  the  house  on  moonlight  nights.  His  anxious  parents 
would  then  send  an  old  servant  after  him,  who  would 
return  to  say  that  "Master  Bysshe  only  took  a  walk,  and 
came  back  again."  A  very  strange  form  of  amusement 
it  must  have  seemed  to  his  plain  matter-of-fact  father. 

But  now  these  careless  happy  days  came  to  an  end, 
or  only  returned  during  holiday  times,  for  when  Bysshe 
was  ten  years  old  he  was  sent  to  school. 

Shelley  went  first  to  a  private  school,  and  after  a  year 
or  two  to  Eton,  but  at  neither  was  he  happy.  And 
although  he  had  been  so  merry  at  home,  at  school  he  was 
looked  upon  as  a  strange  unsociable  creature.  He  refused 
to  fag  for  the  bigger  boys.  He  never  joined  in  the  ordinary 
school  games,  and  would  wander  about  by  himself  reading, 
or  watching  the  clouds  and  the  birds.  He  read  all  kinds 
of  books,  liking  best  those  which  told  of  haunted  castles, 
robbers,  giants,  murderers,  and  other  eerie  subjects.  He 
liked  chemistry  too,  and  was  more  than  once  brought  into 
trouble  by  the  daring  experiments  he  made.  Shelley 
was  very  brave  and  never  afraid  of  anything  except  what 
was  base  and  low.  To  the  few  who  loved  him  he  was 
gentle,  but  most  of  his  schoolfellows  took  delight  in 
tormenting  him.  And  when  goaded  into  wrath  he  showed 
that  he  could  be  fierce. 

Shelley  soon  began  to  write,  and  while  still  at  school, 
at  the  age  of  sixteen,  he  published  a  novel  for  which  he 
received  £40.  A  little  later  he  and  one  of  his  sisters 
published  a  book  of  poems  together. 

From  Eton  Shelley  went  to  Oxford.  Here  he  remained 
for  a  few  months  reading  hard.  "He  was  to  be  found, 
book  in  hand,  at  all  hours;  reading  in  season  and  out  of 


610  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

season;  at  table,  in  bed,  and  especially  during  a  walk." 
But  he  read  more  what  pleased  himself  than  what  pleased 
the  college  authorities.  He  wrote  too,  and  among  the 
things  he  wrote  was  a  little  leaflet  of  a  few  pages  which 
seemed  to  the  fellows  of  his  college  a  dangerous  attack 
upon  religion.  They  summoned  Shelley  to  appear  before 
them,  and  as  he  refused  to  answer  their  questions  he  was 
expelled.  Shelley  had  given  himself  the  name  of  Atheist. 
It  is  a  very  ugly  name,  meaning  one  who  denies  the  exist- 
ence of  God.  Looking  back  now  we  can  see  that  it  was 
too  harsh  and  ugly  a  name  for  Shelley.  The  paper  for 
which  he  was  expelled,  even  if  it  was  wicked,  was  the  work 
of  a  rash,  impetuous  boy,  not  the  reasoned  wickedness 
of  a  grown  man.  But  the  deed  was  done,  and  Shelley 
was  thrown  out  into  the  world,  for  his  father,  sorely 
vexed  and  troubled,  not  knowing  how  to  control  his 
wild  colt  of  a  son,  refused  to  allow  him  to  return  home. 
So  Shelley  remained  in  London.  Here  he  went  often  to 
visit  his  sisters  at  school,  and  came  to  know  one  of  their 
school  friends,  Harriet  Westbrook.  She  was  a  pretty, 
good-tempered  girl  of  sixteen  with  "hair  like  a  poet's 
dream."  ^  Shelley  thought  that  she  too  was  oppressed 
and  ill-used  as  he  had  been.  She  loved  him,  he  liked  her, 
so  they  decided  to  get  married,  and  ran  away  to  Scotland 
and  were  married  in  Edinburgh.  Shelley  was  nineteen 
and  his  little  bride  sixteen. 

This  boy  and  girl  marriage  was  a  terrible  mistake, 
and  three  years  later  husband  and  wife  separated. 

I  can  tell  you  very  little  more  of  Shelley's  life,  some 
of  it  was  wrong,  much  of  it  was  sad,  as  it  could  hardly 
fail  to  be  following  on  this  wrong  beginning.  When  you 
grow  older  you  will  be  able  to  read  it  with  charity  and 
understanding.  Meantime  keep  the  picture  of  the  kindly 
big    brother,    and    imagine    him    growing    into    a    lovable 

'  Hogg. 


THE  POET  OF  LOVE  611 

and  brave  man,  into  a  poet  who  wins  our  hearts  almost 
unawares  by  the  beauty  of  his  poetry,  his  poetry  which 
has  been  called  "a  beautiful  dream  of  the  future."  Of 
some  of  it  I  shall  now  tell  you  a  little. 

Very  early  Shelley  began  to  publish  poetry,  but  most 
of  it  was  not  worthy  of  a  truly  great  poet.  His  first  really 
fine  poem  is  Alastor.  It  is  written  in  blank  verse,  and 
represents  a  poet  seeking  in  vain  for  his  ideal  of  what  is 
truly  lovely  and  beautiful.  Being  unable  to  find  that 
which  he  seeks,  he  dies.  The  poem  is  full  of  beautiful 
description,  but  it  is  sad,  and  in  the  picture  of  the  poet 
we  seem  to  see  Shelley  himself.  Other  long  poems 
followed,  poems  which  are  both  terrible  and  beautiful, 
but  many  years  must  pass  before  you  try  to  read  them. 
For  Shelley's  poetry  is  more  vague,  his  meaning  more 
elusive,  than  that  of  almost  any  other  poet  of  whom  we 
have  spoken.  It  is  rather  for  Shelley's  shorter  poems, 
his  lyrics,  that  I  would  tvy  to  gain  your  love  at  present, 
for  although  he  wrote  The  Cenci,  the  best  tragedy  of  his 
time,  a  tragedy  which  by  its  terror  and  pain  links  him 
with  Shakespeare,  it  is  as  a  lyric  poet  that  we  love  Shelley. 
"Here,"  says  another  poet,^  "Shelley  forgets  that  he  is 
anything  but  a  poet,  forgets  sometimes  that  he  is  anything 
but  a  child.  .  .  .  He  plaj^s  truant  from  earth,  slips 
through  the  wicket  of  fancy  into  heaven's  meadow,  and 
goes  gathering  stars."  And  of  all  our  poets,  Shelley  is  the 
least  earthly,  the  most  spiritual.  But  he  loved  the 
beautiful  world,  the  sea  and  sky,  and  when  we  have  heard 
him  sing  of  the  clouds  and  the  skylark,  of  the  wind  and 
the  waves,  of — 

"The  fresh  Earth  in  new  leaves  drest. 
And  the  starry  night; 
Autumn  evening,  and  the  morn 
When  the  golden  mists  are  born,"  ^ 

*  Francis   Thompson.  '  Song. 


612  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

when  we  have  heard  him  sing  of  these,  and  have  under- 
stood with  our  heart,  they  have  an  added  meaning  for 
us.  We  love  and  understand  the  song  of  the  skylark 
better  for  having  heard  Shelley  sing  of  it. 

"Hail  to  thee,  blithe  spirit! 
Bird  thou  never  wert. 
That  from  heaven,  or  near  it, 

Pourest  thy  full  heart 
In  profuse  strains  of  unpremeditated  art. 

"Higher  still  and  higher. 

From  the  earth  thou  springest 
Like  a  cloud  of  fire; 

The  deep  blue  thou  wingest, 
And  singing  still  dost  soar,  and  soaring  ever  singcst. 

"In  the  golden  lightening 

Of  the  sunken  sun, 
O'er  which  clouds   are  brightening. 

Thou  dost  float  and  run; 
Like  an  unbodied  joy  whose  race  is  just  begun. 

"The  pale  purple  even 

Melts  around  thy  flight; 
Like  a  star  of  heaven. 

In  the  broad  daylight, 
Thou  art  unseen,  but  yet  I  hear  thy  shrill  delight. 

"All  the  earth  and  air 

With  thy  voice  is  loud. 
As,  when  night  is  bare, 

From  one  lonely  cloud 
The  moon  rains  out  her  beams,  and  heaven  is  overflowed. 

"What  thou  art  we  know  not; 

What  is  most  like  thee? 
From  rainbow  clouds  there  flow  not 

Drops  so  bright  to  see. 
As  from  thy  presence  showers  a  rain  of  melody. 


THE  POET  OF  LOVE  613 

"Like  a  poet  hidden 

In  the  light  of  thought. 
Singing  hymns  unbidden, 

Till  the  world  is  wrought 
In  sympathy  with  hopes  and  fears  it  heeded  not: 

"Like  a  high-born  maiden 
In  a  palace  tower. 
Soothing  her  love-laden 
Soul  a  secret  hour 
With  music  sweet  as  love,  which  overflows  her  bower. 


"Teach  us,  sprite  or  bird, 

What  sweet  thoughts  are  thine; 
I  have  never  heard 

Praise  of  love  or  wine 
That  panted  forth  a  flood  of  rapture  so  divine. 

"We  look  before  and  after. 

And  pine  for  what  is  not: 
Our  sincerest  laughter 

With  some  pain  is  fraught; 
The  sweetest  songs  are  those  that  tell  of  saddest  thought. 

"Yet  if  we  could  scorn 

Hate,  and  pride,  and  fear; 
If  we  were  things  born 
Not  to  shed  a  tear, 
I  know  not  how  thy  joy  we  ever  should  come  near. 

"Better  than  all  measures 

Of  delightful  sound. 

Better  than  all  treasures 

That  in  books  are  found. 
Thy  skill  to  poet  were,  thou  scorner  of  the  ground ! 

"Teach  me  half  the  gladness 

That  thy  brain  must  know; 
Such  harmonious  madness 

From  my  lips  would  flow. 
The  world  would  listen  then^  as  I  am  listening  now !" 


614  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

As  we  listen  to  the  lark  singing  we  look  upward  and 
see  the  light  summer  clouds  driving  over  the  blue  sky. 
They,  too,  have  a  song  which  once  the  listening  poet 
heard. 

"I  bring  fresh  showers  for  the  thirsty  flowers. 

From  the  seas  and  the  streams ; 
I  bear  light  shades  for  the  leaves  when  laid 

In  their  noonday  dreams. 
From  my  wings  are  shaken  the  dews  that  waken 

The  sweet  buds  every  one, 
When  rocked  to  rest  on  their  mother's  breast, 

As  she  dances  about  the  sun. 
I  wield  the  flail  of  the  lashing  hail. 

And  whiten  the  green  plains  under, 
And  then  again  I  dissolve  it  in  rain. 

And  laugh  as  I  pass  in  thunder. 

"I  sift  the  snow  on  the  mountains  below. 

And  their  great  pines  groan  aghast. 
And  all  the  night  'tis  my  pillow  white, 

While  asleep  in  the  arms  of  the  blast. 
Sublime  on  the  towers  of  my  skiey  bowers. 

Lightning  my  pilot  sits, 
In  a  cavern  under  is  fettered  the  thunder. 

It  struggles  and  howls  at  fits; 
Over  earth  and  ocean  with  gentle  motion 

This  pilot  is  guiding  me, 
Lured  by  the  love  of  the  genii  that  move 

In  the  depths  of  the  purple  sea; 
Over  the  rills,  and  the  crags,  and  the  hills. 

Over  the  lakes  and  the  plains, 
Wherever  he  dream,  under  mountain  or  stream. 

The  spirit  he  loves  remains; 
And  I  all  the  while  bask  in  heaven's  blue  smile. 

Whilst  he  is  dissolving  in  rains. 


"I  bind  the  sun's  throne  with  the  burning  zone. 
And  the  moon's  with  a  girdle  of  pearl: 
The  volcanoes  are  dim,  and  the  stars  reel  and  swim 
When  the  whirlwinds  my  banner  unfurl 


THE  POET  OF  LOVE  615 

From  cape  to  cape,  with  a  bridge-like  shape. 

Over  a  torrent  sea. 
Sunbeam-proof,  I  hang  like  a  roof. 

The  mountains  its  columns  be. 
The  triumphal  arch  through  which  I  march, 

With  hurricane,  fire,  and  snow. 
When  the  powers  of  the  air  are  chained  to  my  chair. 

In  the  million-coloured  bow; 
The  sphere-fire  above  its  soft  colours  wove. 

While  the  moist  earth  was  laughing  below. 

"I  am  the  daughter  of  earth  and  water. 

And  the  nursling  of  the  sky: 
I  pass  through  the  pores  of  the  ocean  and  shores; 

I  change,  but  I  cannot  die. 
For  after  the  rain,  when  with  never  a  stain. 

The  pavilion  of  heaven  is  bare. 
And  the  winds  and  sunbeams  with  their  convex  gleams. 

Build  up  the  blue  dome  of  air, 
I  silently  laugh  at  my  own  cenotaph. 

And  out  of  the  caverns  of  rain. 
Like  a  child  from  the  womb,  like  a  ghost  from  the  tomb, 

I  arise  and  unbuild  it  again." 

That  is  one  of  Shelley's  happiest  poems.  For  most 
of  his  poems  have  at  least  a  tone  of  sadness,  even  the 
joyous  song  of  the  skylark  leaves  us  with  a  sigh  on  our 
lips,  "our  sincerest  laughter  with  some  pain  is  fraught." 
But  The  Cloud  is  full  only  of  joy  and  movement,  and 
of  the  laughter  of  innocent  mischief.  It  is  as  if  we  saw 
the  boy  Shelley  again. 

We  find  his  sadness,  too,  in  his  Ode  to  the  West  Wind, 
but  it  ends  on  a  note  of  hope.     Here  are  the  last  verses — - 

"Make  me  thy  lyre,  even  as  the  forest  is : 
What  if  my  leaves  are  falling  like  its  own ! 
The  tumult  of  thy  mighty  harmonies 

"Will  take  from  both  a  deep  autumnal  tone. 
Sweet  though  in  sadness.    Be  thou,  spirit  fierce, 
My  spirit  I     Be  thou  me,  impetuous  one ! 


616  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"Drive  my  dead  thoughts  over  the  universe 
Like  withered  leaves  to  quicken  a  new  birth; 
And  by  the  incantation  of  this  verse, 

"Scatter,  as  from  an  unextinguished  hearth 
Ashes  and  sparks,  my  words  among  mankind ! 
Be  through  my  lips  to  unawakened  earth 

"The  trumpet  of  a  prophecy !     O  wind, 
If  Winter  comes,  can  Spring  be  far  behind?" 

Shelley  sang  of  Love  as  well  as  of  the  beauty  of  all 
things.  Here  is  a  little  poem,  some  lines  of  which  are 
often  quoted — 

"One  word  is  too  often  profaned 

For  me  to  profane  it. 
One  feeling  too  falsely  disdained 

For  thee  to  disdain  it. 
One  hope  is  too  like  despair 

For  prudence  to  smother. 
And  Pity  from  thee  more  dear 

Than  that  from  another. 

"I  can  give  not  what  men  call  love. 

But  wilt  thou  accept  not 
The  worship  the  heart  lifts  above 

And  the  Heavens  reject  not. 
The  desire  of  the  moth  for  the  star. 

Of  the  night  for  the  morrow. 
The  devotion  of  something  afar 

From  the  sphere  of  our  sorrow?" 

And  when  his  heart  was  crushed  with  the  knowledge  of 
the  wrong  and  cruelty  in  the  world,  it  was  through  love 
alone  that  he  saw  the  way  to  better  and  lovelier  things. 
"To  purify  life  of  its  misery  and  evil  was  the  ruling  passion 
of  his  soul,"  ^  said  one  who  loved  him  and  knew  him 
perhaps  better  than  any  living  being.  And  it  was  through 
love  and  the  beauty  of  love  that  he  hoped  for  the  triumph 
of  human  weal. 

*Mary  Shelley. 


THE  POET  OF  LOVE  617 

The  ideas  of  the  Revolution  touched  him  as  they 
had  touched  Byron  and  Wordsworth,  and  although  Words- 
worth turned  away  from  them  disappointed,  Shelley  held 
on  hopefully. 

"To  suffer  woes  which  Hope  thinks  infinite; 
To  forgive  wrongs  darker  than  death  or  night; 
To  defy  Power,  which  seems  omnipotent; 
To  love,  and  bear;  to  hope  till  Hope  creates 
From  its  own  wreck  the  thing  it  contemplates: 
Neither  to  change,  nor  falter,  nor  repent ; 
This,  like  thy  glory,  Titan !  is  to  be 
Good,  great  and  joyous,  beautiful  and  free; 
This  is  alone  Life,  Joy,  Empire,  and  Victory !"  * 

One  of  Shelley's  last  poems  was  an  elegy  called 
Adonais.  Under  the  name  of  Adonais,  he  mourns  for 
the  death  of  another  poet,  John  Keats,  who  died  at  twenty- 
six.  Shelley  believed  when  he  wrote  the  poem  that  Keats 
had  been  done  to  death  by  the  cruel  criticisms  of  his 
poems,  that  he  had  died  of  a  broken  heart,  because  the 
world  neither  understood  nor  sympathized  with  his 
poetry.  Shelley  himself  knew  what  it  was  to  suffer 
from  unkind  criticisms,  and  so  he  understood  the  feelings 
of  another  poet.  But  although  Keats  did  suffer  something 
from  neglect  and  cruelty,  he  died  of  consumption,  not  of  a 
broken  heart. 

Adonais  ranks  with  Lycidas  as  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  elegies  in  our  language.  In  it,  Shelley  calls 
upon  everything,  upon  every  thought  and  feeling,  upon 
all  poets,  to  weep  for  the  loss  of  Adonais. 

"All  he  had  loved,  and  moulded  into  thought 
From  shape,  and  hue,  and  odour,  and  sweet  sound. 
Lamented  Adonais.      Morning  sought 
Her  eastern  watch-tower,  and  her  hair  unbound, 
Wet  with  the  tears  which  should  adorn  the  ground, 

*  Prometheus   Unbound. 


618  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Dimmed  the  aerial  eyes  that  kindle  day; 

Afar  the  melancholy  thunder  moaned^ 

Pale  ocean  in  unquiet  slumber  lay. 

And  the  wild  winds  flew  around,  sobbing  in  their  dismay. 

"The  mountain  shepherds  came, 
Their  garlands  sere,  their  magic  mantles  rent; 
The  Pilgrim  of  Eternity,^  whose  fame 
Over  his  living  head  like  Heaven  is  bent. 
An  early  but  enduring  monument. 
Came,  veiling  all  the  lightnings  of  his  song 
In  sorrow ;   from  her  wilds   lerne  ^   sent 
The  sweetest  lyrist  of  her  saddest  wrong. 
And  love  taught  grief  to  fall  like  music  from  his  tongue." 

He  pictures  himself,  too,  among  the  mourners — 

"  'Midst  others  of  less  note,  came  one  frail  Form, 
A   phantom   among  men,   companionless 
As  the  last  cloud  of  an  expiring  storm. 
Whose  thunder  is  its  knell." 

Shelley  mourned  for  Keats,  little  knowing  that  soon 
others  would  mourn  for  himself.  Little  more  than  a  year 
after  writing  this  poem  he  too  lay  dead. 

Shelley  had  passed  much  of  his  time  on  the  Continent, 
and  in  1822  he  was  living  in  a  lonely  spot  on  the  shores  of 
the  Bay  of  Spezia.  He  always  loved  the  sea,  and  he 
here  spent  many  happy  hours  sailing  about  the  bay  in  his 
boat  the  Don  Juan.  Hearing  that  a  friend  had  arrived 
from  England  he  sailed  to  Leghorn  to  welcome  him. 

Shelley  met  his  friend,  and  after  a  week  spent  with  him 
and  with  Lord  Byron,  he  set  out  for  home.  The  little 
boat  never  reached  its  port,  for  on  the  journey  it  was 
wrecked,  we  shall  never  know  how.  A  few  days  later 
Shelley's  dead  body  was  thrown  by  the  waves  upon  the 
sandy  shore.  In  his  pocket  was  found  a  copy  of  Keats's 
poems  doubled  back,  as  if  he  had  been  reading  to  the  last 

'  Lord  Byron.  '  Ierne=Ireland  sends  Thomas  Moore  to  mourn. 


THE  POET  OF  LOVE  619 

moment  and  hastily  thrust  the  book  into  his  pocket. 
The  body  was  cremated  upon  the  shore,  and  the  ashes 
were  buried  in  the  Protestant  cemetery  at  Rome,  not  far 
from  the  grave  of  Keats.  "It  is  an  open  space  among  the 
ruins,  covered  in  winter  with  violets  and  daisies.  It  might 
make  one  in  love  with  death,  to  think  that  one  should  be 
buried  in  so  sweet  a  place."  So  Shelley  himself  had 
written  in  the  preface  to  Adonais. 

Over  his  grave  was  placed  a  simple  stone  with  the  date 
of  his  birth  and  death  and  the  words  "Cor  Cordium" — 
heart  of  hearts.  Beneath  these  words  are  some  lines 
from  the  Tempest  which  Shelley  had  loved — 

"Nothing  of  him  doth  fade 
But  doth  suffer  a  sea-change 
Into  something  rich  and  strange." 

BOOK    TO  READ 
Poems  of  Shelley,  selected  and  arranged  for  use  in  schools,  by  E,  E,  Speight. 


CHAPTER  LXXXI 

KEATS— THE  POET  OF  BEAUTY 

John  Keats,  the  poet  whose  death  Shelley  mourned  in 
Adonais,  was  by  a  few  years  the  younger,  having  been 
born  in  1795.  He  was  born,  too,  in  very  different 
circumstances,  for  whereas  Shelley  was  the  eldest  son  of 
a  country  gentleman,  John  Keats,  was  the  eldest  son  of  a 
stableman. 

As  a  boy  Thomas  Keats  had  come  to  London  and  found 
a  situation  as  ostler  in  some  livery  stables.  He  was 
clever  and  steady,  and  before  he  was  twenty  had  risen 
to  be  head  ostler  and  married  his  master's  daughter. 
Keats  then  became  manager  of  the  stables,  and  his  father- 
in-law,  who  was  comfortably  off,  went  away  to  live  in 
the  country.  John's  parents  were  not  poor,  nor  were 
they  common  people.  In  all  they  had  four  children, 
two  boys  besides  John,  and  a  little  girl,  and  they  deter- 
mined to  give  their  children  a  good  education.  They 
would  have  liked  to  send  their  boys  to  Harrow,  but  finding 
that  would  cost  too  much  they  sent  them  to  a  smaller 
school  at  Enfield.  It  was  a  good  school,  with  a  large 
playground,  and  John  seems  to  have  had  a  happy  time 
there.  He  was  a  little  chap  for  his  years,  but  a  manly 
little  fellow,  broad  shouldered  and  strong.  He  was  full 
of  spirits  and  fond  of  fun,  and  in  spite  of  his  passionate 
temper,  every  one  liked  him.  He  was  not  particularly 
fond  of  lessons,  but  he  did  them  easily  and  then  turned 
to  other  things.     What  he  liked  best  was  fighting.     "He 

620 


THE  POET  OF  BEAUTY  621 

would  fight  any  one,"  says  one  of  his  old  schoolfellows/ 
"morning,  noon,  and  night,  his  brothers  among  the 
rest.  It  was  meat  and  drink  to  him."  "Yet,"  says  an- 
other, "no  one  ever  had  an  angry  word  to  say  of  him, 
and  they  loved  him  not  only  for  his  terrier-like  courage, 
but  for  his  generosity,  his  high-mindedness,  and  his  utter 
ignorance  of  what  was  mean  or  base."  But  although  John 
was  so  much  loved,  and  although  he  was  generally  so 
bright  and  merry,  he  had  miserable  times  too.  He  had 
fits  of  melancholy,  but  when  these  came  he  would  go  to 
his  brothers  and  pour  out  all  his  grief  to  them.  This 
made  him  feel  better,  and  he  troubled  no  one  else  with 
his  moods. 

Very  soon  after  John  went  to  school  his  father  was 
killed  by  a  fall  from  his  horse,  his  grandfather  died  too, 
and  his  mother  married  again.  But  the  marriage  was  not 
happy,  and  she  soon  left  her  new  husband  and  went  to 
live  with  her  own  mother  at  Edmonton.  So  for  five 
years  John's  life  was  spent  between  school  and  his  grand- 
mother's house.  They  were  a  happy  family.  The 
brothers  loved  each  other  though  they  jangled  and  fought, 
and  they  loved  their  mother  and  little  sister  too. 

So  the  years  went  on,  and  John  showed  not  the  slightest 
sign  of  being  a  poet.  Some  doggerel  rimes  he  wrote  to 
his  sister  show  the  boy  he  was,  not  very  unlike  other  boys. 

"There  was   a   naughty   boy, 
And  a  naughty  boy  was  he: 
He  kept  little  fishes 
In  washing-tubs  three, 

In   spite 

Of  the  might 

Of  the  maid. 

Nor   afraid 
Of  his     granny  good. 
He  often  would 

'E.  Holmes. 


622  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Hurly-burly 
Get  up  early 

And  go 
By  hook  or  crook 
To  the  brook, 
And  bring  home 
Miller's  Thumb, 
Tittlebat 
Not  over  fat. 
Minnows  small 
As  the  stall 
Of  a  glove. 
Not  above 

The  size 

Of  a  nice 
Little  baby's 
Little  fingers." 


After  John  had  been  at  school  some  time  he  suddenly 
began  to  care  for  books.  He  began  to  read  and  read 
greedily,  he  won  all  the  literature  prizes,  and  even  on 
half -holidays  he  could  hardly  be  driven  out  to  join  in  the 
games  of  his  comrades,  preferring  rather  to  sit  in  the 
quiet  schoolroom  translating  from  Latin  or  French,  and 
even  when  he  was  driven  forth  he  went  book  in  hand. 

It  was  while  John  was  still  at  school  that  his  mother 
died  and  all  her  children  were  placed  under  the  care  of  a 
guardian.  As  John  was  now  fifteen,  their  guardian  took 
him  from  school,  and  it  was  decided  to  make  him  a  doctor. 
He  was  apprenticed,  in  the  fashion  of  the  day,  to  a  surgeon 
at  Edmonton,  for  five  years.  Keats  seems  to  have  been 
quite  pleased  with  this  arrangement.  His  new  studies 
still  left  him  time  to  read.  He  was  within  walking  distance 
of  his  old  school,  and  many  a  summer  afternoon  he  spent 
reading  in  the  garden  with  Cowden  Clarke,  the  son  of  his 
old  schoolmaster,  in  whom  Keats  had  found  a  friend. 
From  this  friend  he  borrowed  Spenser's  Faery  Queen,  and 
having    read   it    a   new   wonder-world   seemed   opened   to 


THE    POET   OF   BEAUTY  623 

him.  "He  ramped  through  the  scenes  of  the  romance  like 
a  young  horse  turned  into  a  spring  meadow,"  ^  and  all 
through  Keats's  poetry  we  find  the  love  of  beautiful 
coloring  and  of  gorgeous  detail  that  we  also  find  in  Spenser. 
It  was  Spenser  that  awakened  in  Keats  his  sleeping  gift 
of  song,  and  the  first  verses  which  he  wrote  were  in  imita- 
tion of  the  Elizabethan  poet. 

From  Spenser  Keats  learned  how  poetry  might  be 
gemmed,  how  it  might  glow  with  color.  But  there  was 
another  source  from  which  he  was  to  learn  what  pure  and 
severe  beauty  might  mean.  This  source  was  the  poetry 
of  Homer.  Keats  knew  nothing  of  Greek,  yet  all  his 
poetry  shows  the  influence  of  Greece.  At  school  he  had 
loved  the  Greek  myths  and  had  read  them  in  English. 
Now  among  the  books  he  read  with  his  friend  Cowden 
Clarke  was  a  translation  of  Homer.  It  was  not  Pope's 
translation  but  an  earlier  one  by  Chapman.  The  two 
friends  began  to  read  it  one  evening,  and  so  keen  was 
Keats's  delight  that  at  times  he  shouted  aloud  in  joy; 
so  intense  was  his  interest  that  they  read  on  and  on  until 
the  morning  light  put  out  their  candles.  In  the  dawning 
of  the  day  the  young  poet  went  home  quivering  with 
delight.  It  was  for  him  truly  the  dawning  of  a  new  day. 
For  him  still  another  new  world  had  opened,  and  his 
spirit  exulted.  The  voice  of  this  great  master  poet  awoke 
in  him  an  answering  voice,  and  before  many  hours  had 
passed  Cowden  Clarke  had  in  his  hands  Keats's  sonnet 
On  first  looking  into  Chapman  s  Homer.  The  lines 
that  Spenser  had  called  forth  were  a  mere  imitation; 
Homer  called  forth  Keats's  first  really  great  poem. 

"Much  have  I  travell'd  in  the  realms  of  gold. 
And  many  goodly  states  and  kingdoms  seen; 
Round  many  Western  islands  have  I  been 
Which  bards  in  fealty  to  Apollo  hold. 

*  Cowden  Clarke. 


624  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Oft  of  one  wide  expanse  had  I  been  toldj 
That  deep-brow'd  Homer  ruled  as  his  demesne: 
Yet  did  I  never  breathe  its  pure  serene 
Till  I  heard  Chapman  speak  out  loud  and  bold: 
Then  felt  I  like  some  watcher  of  the  skies 
When  a  new  planet  swims  into  his  ken ; 
Or  like  stout  Cortez  when  with  eagle  eyes 
He  star'd  at  the  Pacific — and  all  his  men 
Look'd  at  each  other  with  a  wild  surmise — 
Silent,  upon  a  peak  in  Darien." 

For  some  unexplained  reason  Keats  broke  his  appren- 
ticeship to  the  surgeon  at  Edmonton  after  four  years. 
He  did  not  however  give  up  the  idea  of  becoming  a  doctor, 
and  he  went  on  with  his  studies  at  the  London  hospitals. 
Keats  was  by  this  time  about  nineteen.  He  was  small — 
only  about  five  feet — so  that  his  fellow-students  called 
him  "little  Keats."  But  his  face  was  fine,  and  out  of  it 
looked  eyes  "like  those  of  a  wild  gipsy-maid  set  in  the  face 
of  a  young  god."  He  was  a  steady  student,  although  he 
did  "scribble  doggerel  rhymes"  among  his  notes,  and 
he  passed  his  examinations  well.  Yet  the  work  was  all 
against  the  grain.  More  and  more  he  began  to  feel  that 
nothing  but  poetry  mattered,  that  for  him  it  was  the 
real  business  of  life.  It  was  hard  to  study  when  even  a 
sunbeam  had  power  to  set  his  thoughts  astray.  "There 
came  a  sunbeam  into  the  room,"  once  he  said  to  a  friend, 
"and  with  it  a  whole  troop  of  creatures  floating  in  the  ray, 
and  I  was  off  with  them  to  Oberon  and  Fairyland." 

Keats  gradually  made  several  friends  among  the 
young  writers  of  the  day.  One  of  these  printed  a  few 
of  the  young  poet's  sonnets  in  his  paper  the  Examiner, 
and  in  1817  Keats  published  a  volume  of  poems.  This 
was  his  good-by  to  medicine,  for  although  very  little 
notice  was  taken  of  the  book  and  very  few  copies  were 
sold,  Keats  henceforth  took  poetry  for  his  life  work. 

The  life  of  Keats  was  short,  and  it  had  no  great  adven- 


THE  POET  OF  BEAUTY  625 

tures  in  it.  He  lived  much  now  with  his  two  brothers 
until  the  elder,  George,  married  and  emigrated  to  America, 
and  the  younger,  Tom,  who  had  always  been  an  invalid, 
died.  He  went  excursions  too,  with  his  friends  or  by  him- 
self to  country  or  seaside  places,  or  sometimes  he  would 
spend  days  and  nights  in  the  hospitable  homes  of  his 
friends.  And  all  the  time  he  wrote  letters  which  reveal 
to  us  his  steadfast,  true  self,  and  poems  which  show 
how  he  climbed  the  steps  of  fame. 

Undismayed  at  the  ill  success  of  his  first  book,  the 
next  year  he  published  his  long  poem  Endymion. 

Endymion  was  a  fabled  Grecian  youth  whose  beauty 
was  so  great  that  Selene,  the  cold  moon,  loved  him.  He 
fell  asleep  upon  the  hill  of  Latmus,  and  while  he  slept 
Selene  came  to  him  and  kissed  him.  Out  of  this  simple 
story  Keats  made  a  long  poem  of  four  books  or  parts. 
Into  it  he  wove  many  other  stories,  his  imagination 
leading  him  through  strange  and  wondrous  scenery.  The 
poem  is  not  perfect — it  is  rambling  and  disconnected — 
the  story  of  Endymion  being  but  the  finest  thread  to 
hold  a  string  of  beads  and  priceless  pearls  together. 

The  first  book  is  merely  a  long  introduction,  but  it 
opens  with  unforgettable  lines — 

"A  thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  for  ever; 
Its  loveliness  increases ;  it  will  never 
Pass  into  nothingness ;  but  still  will  keep 
A  bower  quiet  for  us,  and  a  sleep 
Full  of  sweet  dreams,  and  health,  and  quiet  breathing." 

Then  the  poet  tells  us  what  are  the  things  of  beauty 
of  which  he  thinks. 

"Such  the  sun,  the  moon, 
Trees  old,  and  young,  sprouting  a  shady  boon 
For  simple  sheep;  and  such  are  daffodils 
With  the  green  world  they  live  in;  and  clear  rills 


626  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

That  for  themselves  a  cooling  covert  make 
'Gainst  the  hot  season;  the  mid  forest  brake, 
Rich  with  a  sprinkling  of  fair  musk-rose  blooms; 
And  such  too  is  the  grandeur  of  the  dooms 
We  have  imagined  for  the  mighty  dead; 
All  lovely  tales  that  we  have  heard  or  read; 
An  endless  fountain  of  immortal  drink 
Pouring  unto  us  from  the  heaven's  brink." 

But  although  throughout  the  long  poem  there  are 
lovely  passages,  and  one  or  two  most  beautiful  lyrics, 
the  critics  of  the  day  saw  only  the  faults  of  which  Endymion 
is  full,  and  the  poem  was  received  with  a  storm  of 
abuse. 

Soon  after  Keats  published  this  poem,  he,  with  a  friend, 
set  out  on  a  walking  tour  to  the  Lake  Country  and  to 
Scotland.  This  was  Keats's  first  sight  of  real  mountains, 
and  he  gloried  in  the  grand  scenery,  but  said  "human 
nature  is  finer."  When  Keats  set  out  there  was  not  a 
sign  of  the  invalid  about  him.  He  walked  twenty  or 
thirty  miles  a  day  and  cheerfully  bore  the  discomforts 
of  travel.  But  the  tour  proved  too  much  for  his  strength. 
He  caught  a  bad  cold  and  sore  throat,  and  was  ordered 
home  by  the  doctor.  He  went  bj^  boat,  arriving  brown, 
shabby,  and  almost  shoeless,  among  his  London  friends. 

Keats  never  quite  recovered  his  good  health,  and  other 
griefs  and  troubles  crowded  in  upon  him.  It  was  after 
his  return  from  this  tour  that  his  dearly  loved  brother, 
Tom,  died.  Cruel  criticisms  of  his  poetry  hurt  him  at 
the  same  time,  and  he  was  in  trouble  about  money,  for 
the  family  guardian  had  not  proved  a  good  manager.  And 
now  to  this  already  overcharged  heart  something  else 
was  added.  Keats  fell  in  love.  The  lady  he  loved  was 
young  and  beautiful,  but  commonplace.  Keats  himself 
describes  her  when  he  first  met  her  as  "beautiful  and 
elegant,  graceful,  silly,  fashionable,  and  strange."  Her 
beauty  and  her  strangeness  won  for  her  a  way  to  the  poet's 


THE  POET  OF  BEAUTY  627 

heart.  Love,  however,  brought  to  him  no  joyful  rest, 
but  rather  passionate,  jealous  restlessness.  Yet  in  spite 
of  all  his  troubles,  Keats  continued  to  write  poems  which 
will  ever  be  remembered  as  among  the  most  beautiful 
in  our  language. 

Like  Scott  and  Byron,  Keats  wrote  metrical  romances. 
One  of  these,  Isabella,  or  the  Pot  of  Basil,  is  founded  upon 
a  tale  of  Boccaccio,  that  old  master  to  whom  so  many 
poets  have  gone  for  inspiration.  In  Keats's  romances 
there  is  no  war-cry,  no  clash  of  swords  as  in  Scott's,  and 
the  luxury  is  altogether  different  from  Byron's.  There 
is  in  them  that  trembling  sense  of  beauty  which  opens 
to  us  wide  windows  into  fairyland.  They  are  simple 
stories  veiled  in  the  glamour  of  lovely  words,  and  full  of 
the  rich  color  and  the  magic  of  the  middle  ages.  But 
here  as  elsewhere  in  Keats's  poetry  what  we  lack  is  the 
touch  of  human  sorrow.  Keats  wrote  of  nature  Vvith  all 
Wordsworth's  insight  and  truth,  and  with  far  greater 
magic  of  words.  He  understood  the  mystery  of  nature, 
but  of  the  mystery  of  the  heart  of  man  it  was  not  his  to 
sing.  He  lived  in  a  world  apart.  The  terror  and  beauty 
of  real  life  hardly  touched  him.  Alone  of  all  the  poets 
of  his  day  he  was  unmoved  by  the  French  Revolution, 
and  all  that  it  stood  for. 

Some  day  you  will  read  Keats's  metrical  romances, 
and  now  I  will  give  you  a  few  verses  from  some  of  his 
odes,  for  in  his  odes  Ave  have  Keats's  poetry  at  its  very 
best.  Here  are  come  verses  from  his  ode  On  a  Grecian  Urn. 
You  have  seen  such  a  vase,  perhaps,  with  beautiful 
sculptured  figures  on  it,  dancing  maidens  and  piping 
shepherds. 

"Heard  melodies  are  sweet,  but  those  unheard 
Are  sweeter;  therefore,  ye  soft  pipes,  play  on; 
Not  to  the  sensual  ear,  but,  more  endear'd, 
Pipe  to  the  spirit  ditties  of  no  tone: 


628  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Fair  youth,  beneath  the  trees,  thou  canst  not  leave 
Thy  song,  nor  ever  can  those  trees  be  bare; 
Bold  Lover,  never,  never  canst  thou  kiss. 
Though  winning  near  the  goal — yet,  do  not  grieve; 
She  cannot  fade,  though  thou  hast  not  thy  bliss, 
For  ever  wilt  thou  love,  and  she  be  fair ! 

"Ah,  happy,  happy  boughs !  that  cannot  shed 

Your  leaves,  nor  ever  bid  the  Spring  adieu; 

And,  happy  melodist,  unwearied, 

For  ever  piping  songs  for  ever  new; 

More  happy  love !  more  happy,  happy  love ! 

For  ever  warm  and  still  to  be  enjoy 'd. 

For  ever  panting,  and  for  ever  young; 

All  breathing  human  passion  far  above. 

That  leaves  a  heart  high-sorrowful  and  cloy'd, 

A  burning  forehead,  and  a  parching  tongue. 

"O  Attic  shape  !  Fair  attitude  !  with  brede  ''■ 
Of  marble  men  and  maidens  over-wrought. 
With  forest  branches  and  the  trodden  weed; 
Thou,  silent  form,  dost  tease  us  out  of  thought 
As   doth   eternity:   Cold   Pastoral! 
When  old  age  shall  this  generation  waste. 
Thou  shalt  remain,  in  midst  of  other  woe 
Than  ours,  a  friend  to  man,  to  whom  thou  say'st, 
'Beauty  is  truth,  truth  beauty,' — that  is  all 
Ye  know  on  earth,  and  all  ye  need  to  know." 

In  these  last  lines  we  have  the  dominant  note  in 
Keats's  song,  beauty  and  the  love  of  beauty.  What  is  true 
must  be  beautiful,  and  just  in  so  far  as  we  move  away  from 
truth  we  lose  what  is  beautiful.    Nothing  is  so  ugly  as  a  lie. 

And  now  remembering  how  Shelley  sang  of  the  sky- 
lark you  will  like  to  read  how  his  brother  poet  sang  of  the 
nightingale. 

"My  heart  aches,  and  a  drowsy  numbness  pains 
My  sense,  as  though  of  hemlock  I  had  drunk. 
Or  emptied  some  dull  opiate  to  the  drains 
One  minute  past,  and  Lethe-wards  had  sunk: 

*  Embroidery. 


THE  POET  OF  BEAUTY  C29 

'Tis  not  through  envy  of  thy  happy  lot, 
But  being  too  happy  in  thine  happiness, — 
That  thou,  light-winged  Dryad  of  the  trees. 
In  some  melodious  plot 

Of  beechen   green,  and  shadows   numberless, 
Singest  of  summer  in  full-throated  ease. 

"Darkling  I  listen ;  and  for  many  a  time 
I  have  been  half  in  love  with  easeful  Death, 
Call'd  him  soft  names  in  many  a  mused  rhyme, 
To  take  into  the  air  my  quiet  breath; 
Now  more  than  ever  seems  it  rich  to  die, 
To  cease  upon  the  midnight  with  no  pain. 
While  thou  art  pouring  forth  thy  soul  abroad 
In  such  an  ecstasy ! 

Still  wouldst  thou  sing,  and  I  have  ears  in  vain — 
To  thy  high  requiem  become  a  sod. 

"Thou  wast  not  born  for  death,  immortal  Bird ! 
No  hungry  generations  tread  thee  down ; 
The  voice  I  hear  this  passing  night  was  heard 
In  ancient  days  by  emperor  and  clown: 
Perhaps  the  selfsame  song  that  found  a  path 
Through  the  sad  heart  of  Ruth,  when,  sick  for  home, 
She  stood  in  tears  amid  the  alien  corn; 
The  same  that  oft  times  hath 
Charm'd  magic  casements,  opening  on  the  foam 
Of  perilous  seas,  in  faery  lands  forlorn. 

"Forlorn !  the  very  word  is  like  a  bell 
To  toll  me  back  from  thee  to  my  sole  self! 
Adieu !  the  fancy  cannot  cheat  so  well 
As  she  is   famed  to  do,  deceiving  elf. 
Adieu !  Adieu !  thy  plaintive  anthem  fades 
Past  the  near  meadows,  over  the  still  stream. 
Up  the  hill-side;  and  now  'tis  buried  deep 
In  the  next  valley  glades ; 
Was  it  a  vision,  or  a  waking  dream? 
Fled  is  the  music : — Do  I  wake  or  sleep  ?'" 

As  another  poet  ^  has  said,  speaking  of  Keats's  odes, 
"Greater   lyrical   poetry   the   world  may   have   seen   than 

*  Swinburne. 


G30  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

any  that  is  in  these;  loveher  it  surely  has  never  seen,  nor 
ever  can  it  possibly  see." 

Hyperion,  v/hich  also  ranks  among  Keats's  great  poems, 
is  an  unfinished  epic.  In  a  far-off  way  the  subject  of  the 
poem  reminds  us  of  Paradise  Lost.  For  here  Keats  sings 
of  the  overthrow  of  the  Titans,  or  earlier  Greek  gods,  by 
the  Olj^mpians,  or  later  Greek  gods,  and  in  the  majestic 
flow  of  the  blank  verse  we  sometimes  seem  to  hear  an  echo 
of  Milton. 

Hyperion,  who  gives  his  name  to  the  poem,  was  the 
Sun-god  who  was  dethroned  by  Apollo.  When  the  poem 
opens  we  see  the  old  god  Saturn  already  fallen — 

"Old  Saturn  lifted  up 
His  faded  eyes^  and  saw  his  kingdom  gone. 
And  all  the  gloom  and  sorrow  of  the  place, 
And  that  fair  kneeling  goddess ;  and  then  spake. 
As  with  a  palsied  tongue,  and  while  his  beard 
Shook  horrid  with  such   aspen-malady: 
'O  tender  spouse  of  gold  Hyperion, 
Thea,  I  feel  thee  ere  I  see  thy  face; 
Look  up,  and  let  me  see  our  doom  in  it; 
Look  up,  and  tell  me  if  this  feeble  shape 
Is  Saturn's ;  if  thou  hear'st  the  voice 
Of  Saturn ;  tell  me,  if  this  wrinkled  brow. 
Naked  and  bare  of  its  great  diadem. 
Peers  like  the  front  of  Saturn.     Who  had  power 
To  make  me  desolate?  whence  came  the  strength? 
How  was  it  nurtur'd  to  such  bursting  forth. 
While  Fate  seem'd  strangled  in  my  nervous  grasp? 
But  it  is  so.'  " 

Saturn  is  king  no  more.  Fate  willed  it  so.  But 
suddenly  he  rises  and  in  helpless  passion  cries  out  against 
Fate— 

"Saturn  must  be  King. 
Yes,  there  must  be  a  golden  victory; 
There  must  be  gods  thrown  down,  and  trumpets  blown 
Of  triumph  calm,  and  hymns  of  festival 


THE  POET  OF  BEAUTY  631 

Upon  the  gold  clouds  metropolitan^ 

Voices  of  soft  proclaim,  and  silver  stir 

Of  strings  in  hollow  shells ;  and  there  shall  be 

Beautiful  things  made  new,  for  the  surprise 

Of  the  sky-children;  I  will  give  command: 

Thea!  Thea!  Thea !  where  is  Saturn?" 

The  volume  containing  these  and  other  poems  was 
pubhshed  in  1820,  little  more  than  three  years  after  Keats's 
first  volume,  and  never,  perhaps,  has  poet  made  such 
strides  in  so  short  a  time.  And  this  last  book  was 
kindly  received.  Success  had  come  to  Keats,  but  young 
though  he  still  was,  the  success  was  too  late.  For  soon 
it  was  seen  that  his  health  had  gone  and  that  his  life's 
work  was  done.  As  a  last  hope  his  friends  advised  him 
to  sjDend  the  winter  in  Italy.  So  with  a  friend  he  set 
out.  He  never  returned,  but  died  in  Rome  in  the  arms 
of  his  friend  on  the  23rd  Februarj^  1821.  He  was  only 
twenty-six.  Before  he  died  he  asked  that  on  his  grave 
should  be  placed  the  words,  "Here  lies  one  whose  name 
was  writ  in  water."  He  had  his  wish:  but  we,  to  whom 
he  left  his  poetry,  know  that  his  name  is  written  in  the 
stars. 

How  Shelley  mourned  for  him  you  have  read.  How 
the  friends  who  knew  and  loved  him  mourned  we  learn 
from  what  they  say  of  him.  "I  cannot  afford  to  lose  him," 
wrote  one.  "If  I  know  what  it  is  to  love,  I  truly  love 
John  Keats."  Another  says,^  "He  was  the  most  unselfish 
of  human  creatures,"  and  still  another,^  "a  sweeter 
tempered  man  I  never  knew." 

In  a  letter  which  reached  Rome  too  late  was  this 
message  for  Keats,  "Tell  that  great  poet  and  noble-hearted 
man  that  we  shall  all  bear  his  memory  in  the  most  precious 
part  of  our  hearts,  and  that  the  world  shall  bow  their 
heads  to  it,  as  our  loves  do." 

'  Haydon.  '  Bailey. 


632  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

We  bow  our  heads  to  his  memory  and  say  farewell  to 
him  in  these  words  of  his  own  fairy  song — 

"Shed  no  tear !  oh  shed  no  tear ! 
The  flower  will  bloom  another  year. 
Weep  no  more !  oh  weep  no  more ! 
Young  buds  sleep  in  the  roots'  white  core. 
Dry  your  eyes !  oh  dry  your  eyes ! 
For  I  was  taught  in  Paradise 
To  ease  my  heart  of  melodies — 

Shed  no  tear. 

"Overhead  !  look  overhead ! 
'Mong  the  blossoms  white  and  red — 
Look  up^  look  up.     I  flutter  now 
On  this  flush  pomegranate  bough. 
See  me !  'tis  this  silvery  bill 
Ever  cures  the  good  man's  ill. 
Shed   no   tear !   oh   shed   no  tear ! 
The  flower  will  bloom  another  year. 
Adieu  !  Adieu ! — I  fly,  adieu ! 
I  vanish  in  the  heaven's  blue- 
Adieu  !  Adieu !" 


CHAPTER  LXXXII 

CARLYLE— THE  SAGE  OF  CHELSEA 

John  Keats  was  little  more  than  a  month  old,  when  far 
away  across  the  Border  another  little  baby  boy  was  born. 
His  parents,  too,  were  simple  folk,  and  he,  too,  was  born 
to  be  great. 

This  boy's  name  was  Thomas  Carlyle.  His  father  was 
a  stone-mason  and  had  built  with  his  own  hands  the 
house  in  which  his  son  Thomas  was  born.  The  little 
village  of  Ecclefechan  was  about  six  miles  from  the 
Sol  way  Firth,  among  the  pasture  lands  of  the  vale  of 
Annan.  Here  Thomas  grew  to  be  a  boy  running  about 
barefooted  and  sturdy  with  his  many  brothers  and  sisters, 
for  he  had  eight  younger  brothers  and  sisters,  and  one  step- 
brother older  than  himself. 

But  he  did  not  run  about  quite  wild,  for  by  the  time  he 
was  five  his  mother  had  taught  him  to  read  and  his  father 
had  taught  him  to  do  sums,  and  then  he  was  sent  to  the 
village  school. 

James  Carlyle  was  a  good  and  steady  workman. 
Long  afterwards  his  famous  son  said  of  him,  "Nothing 
that  he  undertook  to  do  but  he  did  it  faithfully  and  like 
a  true  man.  I  shall  look  on  the  houses  he  built  with  a 
certain  proud  interest.  They  stand  firm  and  sound  to  the 
heart  all  over  his  little  district.  No  one  that  comes  after 
him  will  ever  say,  'Here  was  the  finger  of  a  hollow  eye- 
servant.'  They  are  little  texts  to  me  of  the  gospel  of 
man's  free  will."     But  there  were  meanwhile  many  little 

633 


634  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

folks  to  clothe,  many  hungry  little  mouths  to  fill,  so  their 
clothes  were  of  the  plainest,  and  porridge  and  milk,  and 
potatoes  forming  their  only  fare.  "It  was  not  a  joyful 
life,"  says  Thomas — "what  life  is? — yet  a  safe,  quiet  one; 
above  most  others,  or  any  others  I  have  witnessed,  a 
wholesome  one." 

Between  the  earnest  and  frugal  father  and  mother 
and  their  children  there  was  a  great  and  reverent  though 
quiet  love,  and  poor  though  they  were,  the  parents  deter- 
mined that  their  children  should  be  well  taught,  so  when 
Thomas  was  ten  he  was  sent  to  a  school  at  Annan  some 
five  miles  away,  where  he  could  learn  more  than  in  the 
little  village  school. 

On  a  bright  May  morning  Thomas  set  out  trotting  gayly 
by  his  father's  side.  This  was  his  first  venture  into  the 
world,  and  his  heart  was  full  of  hopes  just  dashed  with 
sadness  at  leaving  his  mother.  But  the  wonderful  new 
world  of  school  proved  a  bitter  disappointment  to  the 
little  fellow.  He  had  a  violent  temper,  and  his  mother, 
fearing  into  what  he  might  be  led  when  far  from  her, 
made  him  promise  never  to  return  a  blow.  Thomas  kept 
his  promise,  with  the  result  that  his  fellows,  finding 
they  might  torment  him  with  safety,  tormented  him  with- 
out mercy. 

In  a  book  called  Sartor  Resartus  which  Carlyle  wrote 
later,  and  which  here  and  there  was  called  forth  by  a 
memory  of  his  own  life,  he  says: 

"My  schoolfellows  were  boys,  mostly  rude  boys,  and 
obeyed  the  impulse  of  rude  nature  which  bids  the  deer 
herd  fall  upon  any  stricken  hart,  the  duck  flock  put  to 
death  any  broken-winged  brother  or  sister,  and  on  all  hands 
the  strong  tyrannise  over  the  weak." 

So  Thomas  at  school  was  unhappy  and  lonely  and 
tormented.  But  one  day,  unable  to  bear  the  torment 
longer,  he  flew  at  one  of  the  biggest  bullies  in  the  school. 


THE    SAGE   OF   CHELSEA  635 

The  result  was  a  fight  in  which  Thomas  got  the  worst, 
but,  he  had  shown  his  fellows  what  he  could  do,  he  was 
tormented  no  longer.  Yet  ever  afterwards  he  bore  an 
unhappy  remembrance   of  those   days   at   school. 

After  three  years  his  school-days  came  to  an  end. 
He  was  not  yet  fourteen,  but  he  had  proved  himself  so 
eager  a  scholar  that  his  father  decided  to  send  him  to 
college  and  let  him  become  a  minister. 

So  early  one  November  morning  he  set  out  in  the  cold 
and  dark  upon  his  long  tramp  of  more  than  eighty  miles 
to  Edinburgh.  It  was  dark  when  he  left  the  house,  and 
his  father  and  mother  went  with  him  a  little  way,  and 
then  they  turned  back  and  left  Tom  to  trudge  along  in 
the  growing  light,  with  another  boy  a  year  or  two  older 
who  was  returning  to  college. 

Little  is  known  of  Carlyle's  college  days.  After  five 
years'  study,  at  nineteen  he  became  a  schoolmaster,  still 
with  the  intention  of  later  becoming  a  minister  as  his 
father  wished.  But  for  teaching  Carlyle  had  no  love, 
and  after  some  years  of  it,  first  in  schools  and  then  as  a 
private  tutor,  he  gave  it  vip.  He  gave  up,  too,  the  idea 
of  becoming  a  minister,  for  he  found  he  had  lost  the 
simple  faith  of  his  fathers  and  could  not  with  good  con- 
science teach  to  others  what  he  did  not  thoroughly  believe 
himself.  He  gave  up,  too,  the  thought  of  becoming  a 
barrister,  for  after  a  little  study  he  found  he  had  no  bent 
for  law. 

Already  he  had  begun  to  write.  Besides  other  things 
he  had  translated  and  published  Wilhelm  Meister,  a  story 
by  the  great  German  poet,  Goethe.  It  was  well  received. 
The  great  Goethe  himself  wrote  a  kind  letter  to  his  transla- 
tor. It  came  to  him,  said  Carlyle,  "like  a  message  from 
fairyland."  And  thus  encouraged,  after  drifting  here 
and  there,  trying  first  one  thing  and  then  another,  Carlyle 
gave  himself  up  to  literature. 


636  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

Meanwhile  he  had  met  and  loved  a  beautiful  and 
clever  lady  named  Jane  Welsh.  She  was  above  him  in 
station,  witty,  and  sought  after.  Admiring  the  genius 
of  Carlyle  she  yet  had  no  mind  she  said  to  marry  a  poor 
genius.  But  she  did,  and  so  began  a  long  mistake  of 
forty  years. 

The  newly  married  couple  took  a  cottage  on  the 
outskirts  of  Edinburgh,  and  there  Carlyle  settled  down  to 
his  writing.  But  monej^  coming  in  slowly,  Carlyle  found 
he  could  no  longer  afford  to  live  in  Edinburgh.  So  after 
a  3^ear  and  a  half  of  cheerful,  social  life,  surrounded  by 
many  cultured  friends,  he  and  his  wife  moved  to  Craigen- 
puttock,  a  lonely  house  fourteen  miles  from  Dumfries, 
which  belonged  to  Mrs.  Carlyle.  Here  was  solitude 
indeed.  The  air  was  so  quiet  that  the  very  sheep  could  be 
heard  nibbling.  For  miles  around  there  was  no  house, 
the  post  came  only  once  a  week,  and  months  at  a  time 
would  go  past  without  a  visitor  crossing  the  doorstep. 

To  Carlyle,  who  hated  noises,  who  all  his  life  long 
waged  war  against  howling  dogs  and  "demon"  fowls, 
the  silence  and  loneliness  were  delightful.  His  work  took 
all  his  thoughts,  filled  all  his  life.  He  did  not  remember 
that  what  to  him  was  simply  peaceful  quiet  was  for  his 
wittj%  social  wife  a  dreary  desert  of  loneliness.  Carlyle 
was  not  only,  as  his  mother  said,  "gey  ill  to  deal  wi','' 
but  also  "gey  ill  to  live  wi'."  For  he  was  a  genius  and  a 
sick  genius.  He  was  nervous  and  bilious  and  suffered 
tortures  from  indigestion  which  made  him  often  gloomy 
and  miserable. 

It  was  not  a  happy  fortune  which  cast  Jane  and 
Thomas  Carlyle  together  into  this  loneliness.  Still  the 
days  passed  not  all  in  gloom,  Thomas  writing  a  wonderful 
book.  Sartor  Hesartus,  and  Jane  using  all  her  cleverness  to 
make  the  home  beautiful  and  comfortable.  For  they 
were  very  poor,  and  Jane,  who  before  her  marriage  had 


THE   SAGE   OF   CHELSEA  637 

no  knowledge   of  housekeeping,   found  herself  obliged  to 
cook  and  do  much  of  the  housework  herself. 

Nearly  all  Carlyle's  first  books  had  to  do  with  German 
literature.  He  translated  stories  from  great  German 
writers  and  wrote  about  the  authors.  And  just  as  Byron 
had  taught  people  on  the  Continent  to  read  English 
literature,  so  Carlyle  taught  English  people  to  read  Ger- 
man literature.  He  steeped  himself  so  thoroughly  in  Ger- 
man that  he  himself  came  to  write  English,  if  I  may  so 
express  it,  with  a  German  accent.  Carlyle's  style  is  harsh 
and  rugged.  It  has  a  vividness  and  picturesqueness  all  his 
own,  but  when  Carlyle  began  to  write  people  cared  neither 
for  his  style  nor  for  his  subjects.  He  found  publishers 
hard  to  persuade,  and  life  was  by  no  means  easy. 

When  Sartor  was  finished  Carlyle  took  it  to  London, 
but  could  find  no  one  willing  to  publish  it.  So  it  was 
cut  up  into  articles  and  published  in  a  magazine  "and  was 
then  mostly  laughed  at,"  says  Carlyle,  and  many  declared 
they  would  stop  taking  the  magazine  unless  these  ridicu 
lous  papers  ceased.  Not  until  years  had  passed  was  it 
published  in  book  form. 

I  do  not  think  I  can  make  you  understand  the  charm  of 
Sartor.  It  is  a  prose  poem  and  a  book  you  must  leave 
for  the  years  to  come.  Sartor  Resartus  means  "The  tailor 
patched  again."  And  under  the  guise  of  a  philosophy  of 
clothes  Carlyle  teaches  that  man  and  everything  belonging 
to  him  is  only  the  expression  of  the  one  great  real  thing — 
God.  "Thus  in  this  one  pregnant  subject  of  Clothes, 
rightly  understood,  is  included  all  that  men  have  thought, 
dreamed,  done,  and  been." 

The  book  is  full  of  humor  and  wisdom,  of  stray  lighten- 
ings,  and  deep  growlings.  There  are  glimpses  of  "a  story" 
to  be  caught  too.  It  is  perhaps  the  most  Carlylean  book 
Carlyle  ever  wrote.  But  let  it  lie  yet  awhile  on  your 
bookshelf  um-ead. 


638  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

At  the  end  of  six  years  or  so  Carlyle  decided  that 
Craigenputtock  was  of  no  use  to  him.  He  wanted  to  get 
the  ear  of  the  world,  to  make  the  world  listen  to  him.  It 
would  not  listen  to  him  when  he  spoke  from  a  f ar-oif  wilder- 
ness. So  he  made  the  great  plunge,  and  saying  good-by 
to  the  quiet  of  barren  rock  and  moorland  he  came  to  live 
in  London.  He  took  a  house  in  Cheyne  Row  in  Chelsea, 
and  this  for  the  rest  of  his  life  was  his  home.  But  at  first 
London  was  hardly  less  lonely  than  Craigenputtock.  It 
seemed  impossible  to  make  people  want  either  Carlyle 
or  his  books.  "He  had  created  no  'public'  of  his  own," 
says  a  friend  who  wrote  his  life,^  "the  public  which  existed 
could  not  understand  his  writings  and  would  not  buy 
them,  nor  could  he  be  induced  so  much  as  to  attempt  to 
please  it;  and  thus  it  was  that  in  Cheyne  Row  he  was 
more  neglected  than  he  had  been  in  Scotland." 

Still  in  spite  of  neglect  Carlyle  worked  on,  now  writing 
his  great  French  H evolution.  He  labored  for  months  at 
this  book,  and  at  length  having  finished  the  first  volume  of 
it  he  lent  it  to  a  friend  to  read.  This  friend  left  it  lying 
about,  and  a  servant  thinking  it  waste  paper  destroyed  it. 
In  great  distress  he  came  to  tell  Carlyle  what  had  hap- 
pened. It  was  a  terrible  blow,  for  Carlyle  had  earned 
nothing  for  months,  and  money  was  growing  scarce.  But 
he  bravely  hid  his  consternation  and  comforted  his  friend. 
"We  must  try  to  hide  from  him  how  very  serious  this 
business  is  to  us,"  were  the  first  words  he  said  to  his  wife 
when  they  were  alone  together.  Long  afterwards  when 
asked  how  he  felt  when  he  heard  the  news,  "Well,  I  just 
felt  like  a  man  swimming  without  water,"  he  replied.^ 

So  once  more  he  set  to  work  rewriting  all  that  had 
been  lost.  In  1837  the  book  was  published,  and  from  that 
time  Carlyle  took  his  place  in  the  world  as  a  man  of  genius. 
But  money  was  still  scarce,  so  as  a  means  of  making  some, 

*Froude.  "Life  of  Tennyson. 


THE   SAGE   OF   CHELSEA  639 

he  gave  several  courses  of  lectures.  But  he  hated  it. 
"O  heaven!"  he  cries,  "I  cannot  speak.  I  can  only  gasp 
and  writhe  and  stutter,  a  spectacle  to  gods  and  fashion- 
ables,— being  forced  to  it  by  want  of  money."  One  course 
of  these  lectures — the  last — was  on  Heroes  and  Hero 
Worship.  This  may  be  one  of  the  first  of  Carlyle's  books 
that  j'^ou  will  care  to  read,  and  you  may  now  like  to  hear 
what  he  has  to  say  of  Samuel  Johnson  in  The  Hero  as  a 
Man  of  Letters. 

"As  for  Johnson,  I  have  always  considered  him  to  be, 
by  nature,  one  of  our  great  English  souls.  A  strong  and 
noble  man;  so  much  left  undeveloped  in  him  to  the  last; 
in  a  kindlier  element  what  might  he  not  have  been, — Poet, 
Priest,  Sovereign  Ruler!  On  the  whole,  a  man  must  not 
complain  of  his  ^element,'  or  his  'time'  or  the  like;  it 
is  thriftless  work  doing  so.  His  time  is  bad;  well  then, 
he  is  there  to  make  it  better! — 

"Johnson's  youth  was  poor,  isolated,  hopeless,  very 
miserable.  Indeed,  it  does  not  seem  possible  that,  in  any 
of  the  favourablest  outward  circumstances,  Johnson's 
life  could  have  been  other  than  a  painful  one.  The  world 
might  have  had  more  profitable  *worh  out  of  him,  or  less; 
but  his  effort  against  the  world's  work  could  never  have 
been  a  light  one.  Nature,  in  return  for  his  nobleness, 
had  said  to  him,  'Live  in  an  element  of  diseased  sorrow.' 
Nay,  perhaps  the  sorrow  and  the  nobleness  were  intimately 
and    even   inseparably   connected   with   each    other.  .  .  . 

"The  largest  soul  that  was  in  all  England;  and  pro- 
vision made  for  it  of  'fourpence  halfpenny  a  day.'  Yet 
a  giant,  invincible  soul;  a  true  man's.  One  remembers 
always  that  story  of  the  shoes  at  Oxford;  the  rough, 
seamy-faced,  raw-boned  College  Servitor  stalking  about, 
in  winter  season,  with  his  shoes  worn  out;  how  the 
charitable  Gentleman  Commoner  secretly  places  a  new 
pair  at  his  door,  and  the  raw-boned  Servitor,  lifting  them, 


640  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

looking  at  them  near,  with  his  dim  eyes,  with  what  thought, 
— pitches  them  out  of  window!  Wet  feet,  mud,  frost, 
hunger,  or  what  you  will;  but  not  beggary:  we  cannot 
stand  beggary!  Rude  stubborn  self-help  here;  a  whole 
world  of  squalor,  rudeness,  confused  misery  and  want,  yet 
of  nobleness  and  manfulness  withal. 

"It  is  a  type  of  the  man's  life,  this  pitching  away  of 
the  shoes,  an  original  man; — not  a  second  hand,  borrowing 
or  begging  man.  Let  us  stand  on  our  own  basis,  at  any 
rate!  On  such  shoes  as  we  ourselves  can  get.  On  frost 
and  mud,  if  you  will,  but  honestly  on  that ; — On  the  reality 
and  substance  which  nature  gives  us,  not  on  the  semblance, 
on  the  thing  she  has  given  another  than  us! — 

"And  yet  with  all  this  rugged  pride  of  manhood  and 
self-help,  was  there  ever  soul  more  tenderly  affectionate, 
loyally  submissive  to  what  was  really  higher  than  he? 
Great  souls  are  always  loyally  submissive,  reverent  to 
what  is  over  them;  only  small  souls  are  otherwise.  .  .  . 

"It  was  in  virtue  of  his  sincerity,  of  his  speaking  still 
in  some  sort  from  the  heart  of  Nature,  though  in  the 
current  artificial  dialect,  that  Johnson  was  a  Prophet. 
.  .  .  Mark,  too,  how  little  Johnson  boasts  of  his  'sincerity.' 
He  has  no  suspicion  of  his  being  particularly  sincere, — 
of  his  being  particularly  anything!  A  hard-struggling, 
weary-hearted  man,  or  'scholar'  as  he  calls  himself,  trying 
hard  to  get  some  honest  livelihood  in  the  world,  not  to 
starve,  but  to  live, — without  stealing!  A  noble  uncon- 
sciousness is  in  him.  He  does  not  'engrave  Truth  on  his 
watch-seal' ;  no,  but  he  stands  by  truth,  speaks  by  it,  works 
and  lives  by  it.    Thus  it  ever  is.  .  .  . 

"Johnson  was  a  Prophet  to  his  people:  preached  a 
Gospel  to  them, — as  all  like  him  always  do.  The  highest 
Gospel  he  preached  we  may  describe  as  a  kind  of  moral 
Prudence:  'in  a  world  where  much  is  to  be  done,  and 
little  is  to  be  known,'  see  how  you  will  do  itl     A  thing 


THE   SAGE   OF   CHELSEA  641 

well  worth  2:)reacliing.  'A  world  where  much  is  to  be 
done,  and  little  is  to  be  known,'  do  not  sink  yourselves 
in  boundless,  bottomless  abysses  of  Doubt.  .  .  . 

"Such  Gospel  Johnson  preached  and  taught; — coupled 
with  this  other  great  Gospel.  'Clear  your  mind  of  Cant!' 
Have  no  trade  with  Cant:  stand  on  the  cold  mud  in  the 
frosty  weather,  but  let  it  be  in  your  own  real  torn  shoes: 
'that  will  be  better  for  you,'  as  Mahomet  says!  I 
call  this,  I  call  these  two  things  joined  together,  a  great 
Gospel,  the  greatest  perhaps  that  was  possible  at  that 
time." 

I  give  this  quotation  from  Heroes  because  there  is, 
in  some  ways,  a  great  likeness  between  Johnson  and 
Carlyle.  Both  were  sincere,  and  both  after  a  time  of 
poverty  and  struggle  ruled  the  thought  of  their  day.  For 
Carlyle  became  known  by  degrees,  and  became,  like  John- 
son before  him,  a  great  literary  man.  He  was  sought  after 
by  the  other  writers  of  his  day,  who  came  to  listen  to  the 
growlings  of  the  "Sage  of  Chelsea." 

Carlyle,  like  Johnson,  was  a  Prophet  with  a  message. 
"Carlyle,"  says  a  French  writer,  "has  taken  up  a  mission; 
he  is  a  j)rophet,  the  prophet  of  sincerity.  This  sincerity 
or  earnestness  he  would  have  applied  everywhere:  he 
makes  it  the  law,  the  healthy  and  holy  law,  of  art,  of  morals, 
of  politics."  ^  And  through  all  Carlyle's  exaggeration  and 
wayv/ardness  of  diction  we  find  that  note  ring  clear  again 
and  again.  Be  sincere,  find  the  highest,  and  worship  it 
with  all  thj^  mind  and  heart  and  will. 

And  although  for  us  of  to-day  the  light  of  Carlyle  as  a 
prophet  may  be  somewhat  dimmed,  we  may  still  find,  as  a 
great  man  of  his  own  day  found,  that  the  good  his  writings 
do  us,  is  "not  as  philosophy  to  instruct,  but  as  poetry 
to  animate."  " 

Carlyle   went    steadily    on   with    his    writing.      In    the 

^Scherer.  »J.  S.   Mill. 


642  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

summer  he  would  have  his  table  and  tray  of  books  brought 
out  into  the  garden  so  that  he  could  write  in  the  open  air, 
but  much  of  his  work,  too,  was  done  in  a  "sound  proof" 
room  which  he  built  at  the  top  of  the  house  in  order  to 
escape  from  the  horror  of  noise.  The  sound-proof  room 
was  not,  however,  a  great  success,  for  though  it  kept  out 
some  noises  it  let  in  others  even  worse. 

When  visitors  came  they  were  received  either  indoors 
or  in  the  little  garden  which  Carlyle  found  "of  admirable 
comfort  in  the  smoking  way."  In  the  garden  they  smoked 
and  talked  sitting  on  kitchen  chairs,  or  on  the  quaint  china 
barrels  which  Mrs.  Carl3de  named  "noblemen's  seats." 

Among  the  many  friends  Carlyle  made  was  the  young 
poet  Alfred  Tennyson.  Returning  from  a  walk  one  day 
he  found  a  splendidly  handsome  young  man  sitting  in  the 
garden  talking  to  his  wife.     It  was  the  poet. 

Here  is  how  Carlyle  describes  his  new  friend:  "A  fine, 
large-featured,  dime-eyed,  bronze-coloured,  shaggy-headed 
man  is  Alfred;  dusty,  smoky,  free  and  easy;  who  swims 
outwardly  and  inwardly  with  great  composure  in  an 
articulate  element  as  of  tranquil  chaos  and  tobacco  smoke; 
great,  now  and  then  when  he  does  emerge;  a  most  restful, 
brotherly,  whole-hearted  man."  Or  again:  "Smokes  in- 
finite tobacco.  His  voice  is  musical,  metallic,  fit  for  loud 
laughter  and  piercing  wail,  and  all  that  may  lie  between. 
I  do  not  meet  in  these  late  decades  such  company  over  a 
pipe.    We  shall  see  what  he  will  grow  to."  ^ 

Although  Carlyle  was  older  than  Tennyson  by  fourteen 
years,  this  was  the  beginning  of  a  friendship  which  strength- 
ened with  years  and  lasted  when  they  were  both  gray- 
haired  men.  They  talked  and  smoked  and  walked  about 
together  often  at  night  through  the  lamp-lit  streets,  some- 
times in  the  wind,  and  rain,  Carlyle  crying  out  as  they 
walked  along  against  the  dirt  and  squalor  and  noise  of 

*  Ilallam,  Lord  Tennyson,  Life  of  Tennyson. 


TARLYT.K   AND   TF.XNVSOX    TALKED    AND    SMflKKD   TOOETHKR. 


THE  SAGE  OF  CHELSEA  643 

London,  "that  healthless,  profitless,  mad  and  heavy-laden 
place,"  "that  Devil's  Oven." 

The  years  passed  and  Carlyle  added  book  to  book. 
Perhaps  of  them  all  that  which  we  should  be  most  grateful 
for  is  his  Life  and  Letters  of  Cromwell.  For  in  this  book 
he  set  Cromwell  in  a  new  light,  a  better  light  than  he  had 
ever  been  set  before.  Carlyle  is  a  hero  worshiper,  and 
in  Cromwell  as  a  hero  he  can  find  no  fault.  He  had  of 
course  his  faults  like  other  men,  and  he  had  no  need  of 
such  blind  championship.  For  in  his  letters  and  speeches, 
gathered  together  and  given  to  the  w^orld  by  Carlyle,  he 
speaks  for  himself.  In  them  we  find  one  to  whom  we  may 
look  up  as  a  true  hero,  a  man  of  strength  to  trust.  We 
find,  too,  a  man  of  such  broad  kindliness,  a  man  of  such 
a  tender  human  heart  that  we  may  love  him. 

Another  great  book  was  Carlyle's  History  of  Frederick 
the  Great.  It  is  a  marvelous  piece  of  historical  w^ork, 
and  as  volume  after  volume  appeared  Carlyle's  fame 
steadily  rose. 

"No  critic,"  says  his  first  biographer,  Froude,  "no 
critic  after  the  completion  of  Frederick,  challenged  Car- 
lyle's right  to  a  place  beside  the  greatest  of  English 
authors,  past  and  present."  He  was  a  great  historian, 
but  in  the  history  he  gives  us  not  dead  facts,  but  living, 
breathing  men  and  women.  His  pages  are  as  full  of  color 
and  of  life  as  the  pages  of  Shakespeare. 

The  old  days  of  struggle  and  want  were  long  over,  but 
the  Carlyles  still  lived  the  simple  life  in  the  little  Chelsea 
house.  As  another  writer^  has  quaintly  put  it,  "Tom 
Carlyle  lives  in  perfect  dignity  in  a  little  £40  house  in 
Chelsea,  with  a  snuffy  Scotch  maid  to  open  the  door; 
and  the  best  company  in  England  ringing  at  it." 

Then  in  1865  Carlyle  was  chosen  Lord  Rector  of  Edin- 
burgh University,  and  although   this   could  add  little  to 

^  Thackeray. 


644  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

his  fame,  he  was  glad  that  his  own  countr}^  had  recognized 
his  greatness. 

Fifty  years  before,  he  had  left  the  University  a  poor  and 
unknown  lad.  Now  at  seventy-one,  a  famous  man,  he 
returned  to  make  his  speech  upon  entering  his  office  as 
Rector. 

The  speech  was  a  splendid  success,  his  reception 
magnificent,  "a  perfect  triumph,"  as  a  friend  telegraphed 
to  Mrs.  Carlyle  waiting  anxiously  for  news  in  London. 
For  a  few  days  Carlyle  lingered  in  Scotland.  Then  he 
was  suddenly  recalled  home  by  the  terrible  news  that  his 
wife  had  died  suddenly  while  out  driving.  It  was  a  crush- 
ing blow.  Only  when  it  was  too  late  did  Carlyle  realize 
all  that  his  wife  had  been  to  him.  She  was,  as  he  wrote 
on  her  tombstone,  "Suddenly  snatched  away  from  him, 
and  the  light  of  his  life  as  if  gone  out." 

The  light  indeed  had  gone  out.  The  rest  of  his  life 
was  a  sad  twilight,  filled  with  cruel  remorse.  He  still 
wrote  a  little,  and  friends  were  kind,  but  his  real  work  in 
life  was  done,  and  he  felt  bitterly  alone. 

Honors  were  offered  him,  a  title  if  he  would,  a  pension. 
But  he  declined  them  all.  For  fifteen  years  life  dragged 
along.     Then  at  the  age  of  eighty-five  he  died. 

He  might  have  lain  in  Westminster  among  the  illustri- 
ous dead.  But  such  had  not  been  his  wish,  so  he  was 
buried  beside  his  father  and  mother  in  the  old  churchyard 
at  Ecclefechan. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 

Stories  from  Carlyle,  by  D.  M.  Ford.     Readings  from  Carlyle,  by  W.  Keith 
Leask. 


CHAPTER  LXXXIII 

THACKERAY— THE  CYNIC? 

A  LITTLE  time  after  Carlyle's  French  It  evolution  was 
published  he  wrote  to  his  brother,  "I  understand  there 
have  been  many  reviews  of  a  very  mixed  character.  I  got 
one  in  the  Times  last  week.  The  writer  is  one,  Thackeray, 
a  half -monstrous  Cornish  giant,  kind  of  painter,  Cambridge 
man,  and  Paris  newspaper  correspondent,  who  is  now 
writing  for  his  life  in  London.  .  .  .  His  article  is  rather 
like  him,  and  I  suppose  calculated  to  do  the  book  good." 

In  these  few  sentences  we  have  a  sketch  of  William 
Makepeace  Thackeray's  life,  from  the  time  he  finished  his 
education  up  to  the  age  of  twenty-six,  when  Carlyle  met 
him.  He  was  the  son  of  Richmond  Thackeray,  a  collector 
in  the  service  of  the  East  India  Company,  and  was  born  in 
Calcutta  in  1811. 

Little  Billy-man,  as  his  mother  called  him,  in  after 
years  could  remember  very  little  of  India.  He  remem- 
bered seeing  crocodiles  and  a  very  tall,  lean  father.  When 
Billy  was  quite  a  tiny  chap,  his  father  died.  Soon  after, 
the  little  boy  was  sent  home,  as  Indian  children  always 
are,  but  his  mother  remained  out  in  India,  and  a  year 
or  two  later  married  Major  Henry  Carmichael  Smyth. 
Major  Smyth  was  a  simple,  kindly  gentleman,  and  proved 
a  good  stepfather  to  his  wife's  little  boy,  who,  when  he 
grew  up  and  became  famous  drew  his  stepfather's  portrait 
in  the  character  of  Colonel  Newcome. 

Meanwhile  Billy-man  was  separated  from  both  father 

645 


64^6  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

and  mother,  and  sailed  home  under  the  care  of  a  black 
servant.  His  ship  called  at  St.  Helena,  and  there  the  black 
servant  took  the  little  boy  a  long  walk  over  rocks  and 
hills  until  they  came  to  a  garden.  In  the  garden  a  man 
Yv^as  walking.  "That  is  he,"  said  the  black  man,  "that  is 
Bonaparte.  He  eats  three  sheep  every  day,  and  all  the 
little  children  he  can  lay  hands  on."  Ugh!  We  think 
that  the  little  boy  did  not  want  to  stay  there  long. 

William  reached  home  safely  and  was  very  happy  with 
kind  aunts  and  grandmother  until  he  went  to  school.  And 
school  he  did  not  like  at  all.  Long  afterwards  in  one  of 
his  books  he  wrote,  "It  was  governed  by  a  horrible  little 
tyrant,  who  made  our  young  lives  so  miserable,  that  I 
remember  kneeling  by  my  little  bed  of  a  night  and  saying, 
'Pray  God,  I  may  dream  of  my  mother.' "  ^ 

But  he  left  this  school  and  when  he  was  about  eleven 
went  to  Charterhouse.  Here  Thackeray  was  not  much 
happier.  He  was  a  pretty,  gentle  boy,  and  not  particu- 
larly clever,  either  at  games  or  at  lessons.  The  boys  were 
rough  and  even  brutal  to  each  other,  and  Thackeray  had 
to  take  his  share  of  the  blows,  and  got  a  broken  nose 
which  disfigured  his  good-looking  face  ever  after.  And 
when  he  left  school  he  took  away  with  him  a  painful 
remembrance  of  all  he  had  had  to  suiter.  But  by  degrees 
the  suffering  faded  out  of  his  memory  and  he  looked  upon 
his  old  school  with  kindly  eyes,  and  called  it  no  longer 
Slaughterhouse,  but  Grey  Friars,  in  his  books. 

Before  Thackeray  went  to  Charterhouse  his  mother 
and  stepfather  had  come  home  to  England  and  made  a 
home  for  the  little  boy  where  he  spent  happy  holidays. 
Thackeray  was  not  very  diligent,  but  in  his  last  term  at 
school  he  writes  to  his  mother,  "I  really  think  I  am 
becoming  terribly  industrious,  though  I  can't  get  Dr. 
Russell   (the  headmaster)    to  think  so.  .  .  .  There  are  but 

^  Roundabout  Papers. 


THE  CYNIC?  647 

three  hundred  and  seventy  in  the  school.  I  wish  there 
were  only  three  hundred  and  sixty-nine." 

Soon  he  had  his  wish,  and  leaving  Charterhouse  he 
went  to  Trinity  College,  Cambridge.  He  liked  Cambridge 
better  than  Charterhouse,  but  did  not  learn  much  more. 
In  little  more  than  a  year  he  left  because  he  felt  that  he 
was  wasting  his  time,  and  went  abroad  to  finish  his 
education.  After  spending  a  happy  year  in  Germany 
he  came  home  to  study  at  the  bar,  but  soon  finding  he  had 
no  taste  for  law,  he  gave  that  up. 

Thackeray  was  now  of  age  and  had  come  into  a  little 
fortune  of  about  £500  a  year,  left  to  him  by  his  father. 
So  he  decided  to  try  his  hand  at  literature,  and  bought 
a  paper  called  the  National  Standard,  and  became  editor 
of  it.  He  could  not,  however,  make  his  paper  pay,  and 
in  that  and  other  ways  he  had  soon  lost  all  his  money. 

It  was  now  necessary  that  he  should  do  something  to 
earn  a  living,  and  he  determined  to  be  an  artist,  and  went 
to  Paris  to  study.  But  although  he  was  fond  of  drawing, 
and  was  able  afterwards  to  illustrate  some  of  his  own 
books,  he  never  became  a  real  artist. 

Meanwhile  in  Paris  he  met  a  young  Irish  lady  with 
whom  he  fell  in  love,  and  being  offered  the  post  of  Paris 
correspondent  on  another  paper,  he  married.  But  very 
soon  after  he  married  the  paper  failed  and  Thackeray  and 
his  young  wife  returned  to  London,  very  poor  indeed,  and 
there  he  remained,  as  Carlyle  said,  "writing  for  his  life." 

It  was  a  struggle,  doubtless,  but  not  a  bitter  one,  and 
Thackeray  was  happy  in  his  home  with  his  wife  and  two 
little  daughters.  Long  afterwards  one  of  these  daughters 
wrote,  "Almost  the  first  time  I  can  remember  my  parents 
was  at  home  in  Great  Coram  Street  on  one  occasion, 
when  my  mother  took  me  upon  her  back,  as  she  had  a  way 
of  doing,  and  after  hesitating  for  a  moment  at  the  door, 
carried  me  into  a  little  ground  floor  room  where  some  one 


648  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

sat  bending  over  a  desk.  This  some  one  lifted  up  his  head 
and  looked  round  at  the  people  leaning  over  his  chair. 
He  seemed  pleased,  smiled  at  us,  but  remonstrated. 
Nowadays  I  know  by  experience  that  authors  don't  get 
on  best,  as  a  rule,  when  they  are  interrupted  in  their  work 
— not  even  by  their  own  particular  families — but  at  that 
time  it  was  all  wondering,  as  I  looked  over  my  mother's 
shoulder." 

But  these  happy  days  did  not  last  long.  The  young 
mother  became  ill;  gradually  she  became  worse,  until  at 
last  the  light  of  reason  died  out  of  her  brain,  and  although 
she  lived  on  for  many  years,  it  was  a  living  death,  for  she 
knew  no  one  and  took  no  notice  of  anything  that  went  on 
around  her. 

The  happy  home  was  broken  up.  The  children  went 
to  live  with  their  great-grandmother,  who  found  them 
"inconveniently  young,"  while  Thackeray  remained  alone 
in  London.  But  though  he  was  heart-broken  and  lonely, 
he  kept  a  loving  memory  of  the  happy  days  gone  by. 
Long  after  he  wrote  to  a  friend  who  was  going  to  be 
married,  "Although  my  own  marriage  was  a  wreck,  as  you 
know,  I  would  do  it  over  again,  for  behold.  Love  is  the 
crown  and  completion  of  all  earthly  good.  The  man  who 
is  afraid  of  his  future  never  deserved  one." 

Thackeray  was  already  making  a  way  with  his  pen, 
and  now  he  found  a  new  opening.  Most  of  you  know 
Punch.  He  and  his  dog  Toby  are  old  friends.  And 
Mr.  Punch  with  his  humped  back  and  big  nose  "comes  out" 
every  week  to  make  us  laugh.  He  makes  us  laugh,  too, 
with  kindly  laughter,  for,  as  Thackeray  himself  said, 
"there  never  were  before  published  in  this  world  so  many 
volumes  that  contained  so  much  cause  for  laughing,  so 
little  for  blushing.  It  is  so  easy  to  be  witty  and  wicked, 
so  hard  to  be  witty  and  wise!"  But  once  upon  a  time 
there  was  no  Punchy  strange  though  it  may  seem.     It  was 


THE  CYNIC?  649 

just  at  this  time,  indeed,  that  Punch  was  pubhshed  and 
Thackeray  became  one  of  the  earhest  contributors,  and 
continued  for  ten  years  both  to  draw  pictures  and  write 
papers  for  it.  It  was  in  Punch  that  his  famous  ''Snob 
Papers''  appeared.  What  is  a  Snob?  Thackeray  says, 
"He  who  meanly  admires  mean  things." 

It  has  been  said  that  by  reason  of  writing  so  much 
about  snobs  that  Thackeray  came  to  see  snobbishness 
where  there  was  none.  But  certain  it  is  he  laid  a  smart 
but  kindly  finger  on  many  a  small-minded  prejudice. 
Several  times  in  this  book  you  have  heard  of  sizars  and 
commoners,  stupid  distinctions  which  are  happily  now 
done  away  with.  Perhaps  you  would  like  to  know  how 
Thackeray  thought  of  them.  For  although  it  is  not  a 
very  good  illustration  of  real  snobbishness,  it  is  interesting 
to  read  in  connection  with  the  lives  of  many  great  writers. 

"If  you  consider,  dear  reader,  what  profound  snobbish- 
ness the  University  System  produced,  you  will  allow  that 
it  is  time  to  attack  some  of  those  feudal  JNIiddle-age  super- 
stitions. If  you  go  down  for  five  shillings  to  look  at  the 
'College  Youths,'  you  may  see  one  sneaking  down  the 
court  without  a  tassel  to  his  cap;  another  with  a  gold  or 
silver  fringe  to  his  velvet  trencher;  a  third  lad  with  a 
master's  gown  and  hat,  walking  at  ease  over  the  sacred 
College  grass-plats,  which  common  men  must  not  tread  on. 

"He  may  do  it  because  he  is  a  nobleman.  Because  a 
lad  is  a  lord,  the  University  gives  him  a  degree  at  the  end 
of  two  years  which  another  is  seven  in  acquiring.  Because 
he  is  a  lord,  he  has  no  call  to  go  through  an  examination. . . . 

"The  lads  with  gold  and  silver  lace  are  sons  of  rich 
gentlemen,  and  called  Fellow  Commoners;  they  are 
privileged  to  feed  better  than  the  pensioners,  and  to  have 
wine  with  their  victuals,  which  the  latter  can  only  get  in 
their  rooms. 

"The  unlucky  boys  who  have  no  tassels  to  their  caps. 


650  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

are  called  sizars — servitors  at  Oxford — (a  very  pretty  and 
gentlemanlike  title).  A  distinction  is  made  in  their 
clothes  because  they  are  poor;  for  which  reason  they  wear 
a  badge  of  j)overty,  and  are  not  allowed  to  take  their 
meals  with  their  fellow  students." 

But  the  same  pen  that  wrote  sharply  and  satirically 
about  snobs,  wrote  loving  letters  in  big  round  hand  to  his 
dear  daughters,  who  were  living  far  away  in  Paris.  For 
either  child  he  used  a  different  hand,  so  that  each  might 
know  at  once  to  whom  the  letter  was  addressed.  Here 
is  part  of  one  to  his  "dearest  Nanny."  "How  glad  I  am 
that  it  is  a  black  puss  and  not  a  black  7iuss  you  have  got! 
I  thought  you  did  not  know  how  to  spell  nurse,  and  had 
spelt  it  en-you-double-ess ;  but  I  see  the  spelling  gets 
better  as  the  letters  grow  longer:  they  cannot  be  too 
long  for  me.  Laura  must  be  a  very  good-natured  girl. 
I  hope  my  dear  Nanny  is  so  too,  not  merely  to  her  school 
mistress  and  friends,  but  to  everybody — to  her  servants 
and  her  nurses.  I  would  sooner  have  you  gentle  and 
humble-minded  than  ever  so  clever.  Who  was  born  on 
Christmas  Day?  Somebody  Who  was  so  gi-eat,  that  all 
the  world  worships  Him;  and  so  good  that  all  the  world 
loves  Him;  and  so  gentle  and  humble  that  He  never 
spoke  an  unkind  word.  And  there  is  a  little  sermon  and 
a  great  deal  of  love  and  affection  from  papa."  ^ 

The  Book  of  S7whs  brought  Thackeray  into  notice, 
and  now  that  he  was  becoming  well  known  and  making 
more  money,  he  once  more  made  a  home  for  his  daughters, 
and  they  came  to  London  to  live  with  their  father.  Every- 
thing was  new  and  strange  to  the  little  girls.  There  was 
a  feeling  of  London  they  thought,  in  the  new  house,  and 
"London  smelt  of  tobacco."  Thus  once  more,  says  his 
daughter,  "after  his  first  happy  married  years,  my  father 
had  a  home  and  a  family — if  a  house,  two  young  children, 

^Mrs.  Ritchie's  introduction  to  Contributions  to  Punch. 


THE  CYNIC?  651 

three  servants,  and  a  little  black  cat  can  be  called  a 
family." 

Thackeray  was  a  very  big  man,  being  six  feet  three  or 
four.  He  must  have  seemed  a  very  big  papa  to  the  little 
girls  of  six  and  eight,  who  were,  no  doubt,  very  glad  to  be 
again  beside  their  great  big  kind  father,  and  he,  on  his  side, 
was  very  glad  to  have  his  little  girls  to  love,  and  he  took 
them  about  a  great  deal  to  the  theater  and  concerts. 
They  helped  him  in  many  little  ways  and  thought  it  joy 
to  leave  lessons  in  the  schoolroom  upstairs  and  come 
downstairs  to  help  father,  and  be  posed  as  models  for  his 
drawings. 

It  was  now  that  Thackeray  wrote  his  first  great  novel, 
his  greatest  some  people  think.  Vanity  Fair.  I  cannot 
tell  you  about  it  now,  but  when  j^ou  are  a  very  little  older 
you  will  like  to  read  of  clever  and  disagreeable  Becky 
Sharp,  of  dear  Dobbin,  and  foolish  Amelia,  and  all  the 
rest  of  the  interesting  people  Thackeray  creates  for  us. 
Thackeray  has  been  called  a  cynic,  that  is  one  who  does 
not  believe  in  the  goodness  of  human  nature,  and  who 
sneers  at  and  finds  fault  with  everything.  And  reading 
Vanity  Fair  when  we  are  very  young  we  are  apt  to  think 
that  is  so,  but  later  we  come  to  see  the  heart  of  goodness 
there  is  in  him,  and  when  we  have  read  his  books  we  say 
to  ourselves,  "What  a  truly  good  man  Thackeray  must 
have  been."  "He  could  not  have  painted  Vanity  Fair 
as  he  has,"  says  another  writer,^  "unless  Eden  had  been 
shining  brightly  in  his  inner  eyes." 

Though  Thackeray  is  no  cynic  he  is  a  satirist  as  much 
as  Pope  or  Dryden,  but  the  most  kindly  satirist  who  ever 
wrote.  His  thrusts  are  keen  and  yet  there  is  always  a 
humorous  laugh  behind,  and  never  a  spark  of  malice  or 
uncharitableness.  Thackeray  bore  no  hatred  in  his  heart 
towards  any  man.     He  could  not  bear  to  give  pain,  and 

'  George  Brimle}'. 


652  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

as  he  grew  older  his  satire  became  more  gentle  even  than 
at  first,  and  he  regretted  some  of  his  earlier  and  too  sharp 
sayings. 

After  Vanity  Fair  other  novels  followed,  the  best  of 
all  being  Esmond.  Esmond  is  perhaps  the  finest  historical 
novel  in  our  language.  It  is  a  story  of  the  time  of  Queen 
Anne,  and  v/hen  we  read  it  we  feel  as  if  the  days  of  Addison 
and  Steele  lived  again.  But  with  Thackeray  the  historical 
novel  is  very  difi'erent  from  the  historical  novel  of  Scott. 
With  Thackeray  his  imaginary  people  hold  the  chief  place, 
the  real  people  only  form  a  background,  while  in  many 
of  Scott's  novels  the  real  people  claim  our  attention 
most. 

Before  Esmond  was  written  Thackeray  had  added  the 
profession  of  lecturer  to  that  of  author.  He  was  a  very 
loving  father  and  was  always  anxious  not  only  that  his 
daughters  should  be  happy  when  they  were  young,  but 
that  when  he  died  he  should  leave  them  well  off.  Again 
and  again  in  his  letters  we  find  him  turning  to  this  thought: 
"If  I  can't  leave  them  a  fortune,  why,  we  must  try  to 
leave  them  the  memory  of  having  had  a  good  time,"  he 
says.  But  he  wanted  to  leave  them  a  fortune,  and  so  he 
took  to  lecturing.  His  lectures  were  a  great  success,  and 
he  delivered  them  in  many  places  in  England,  Scotland, 
Ireland  and  America. 

It  was  while  he  was  lecturing  in  Scotland  that  he  heard 
a  little  boy  read  one  of  his  ballads.  It  was  a  satirical 
ballad,  and  somehow  Thackeray  did  not  like  to  hear  it 
from  the  little  boy's  lips.  Turning  away  he  said  to  himself, 
"Pray  God  I  may  be  able  some  day  to  write  something 
good  for  children.  That  will  be  better  than  glory  or 
Parliament." 

But  already  he  had  written  something  good  for  children 
in  the  fairy  tale  of  The  Rose  and  the  Ring.  One  year  he  spent 
the  winter  with  his  children  in  Rome,  and  wrote  the  fairy 


THE  CYNIC?  653 

tale  for  them  and  their  friends,  and  drew  the  pictures 
too. 

I  have  no  room  in  this  book  to  tell  you  the  story,  but 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  fun  in  it,  and  I  hope  you  will  read 
it  for  yourselves.  Here,  for  instance,  is  what  happened  to 
a  porter  for  being  rude  to  the  fairy  Blackstick.  After 
saying  many  other  rude  things,  he  asked  if  she  thought 
he  was  going  to  stay  at  the  door  all  day. 

"  'You  ai'c  going  to  stay  at  that  door  all  day  and  all 
night,  and  for  many  a  long  year,'  the  fairy  said,  very 
majestically;  and  Gruff enuff,  coming  out  of  the  door, 
straddling  before  it  with  his  great  calves,  burst  out  laugh- 
ing, and  cried  'Ha,  ha,  ha!  this  is  a  good  un!  Ha — ah 
— what's  this?  Let  me  down — O-o-H'm!'  and  then  he 
was  dumb. 

"For  as  the  fairy  waved  her  wand  over  him,  he  felt 
liimself  rising  off  the  ground,  and  fluttering  up  against 
the  door,  and  then,  as  if  a  screw  ran  into  his  stomach, 
he  felt  a  dreadful  pain  there,  and  was  pinned  to  the  door; 
and  then  his  arms  flew  up  over  his  head;  and  his  legs, 
after  writhing  about  wildly,  twisted  under  his  body;  and 
he  felt  cold,  cold,  growing  over  him,  as  if  he  was  turning 
into  metal;  and  he  said,  'O-o-H'm!'  and  could  say  no 
more,  because  he  was  dumb. 

"He  was  turned  into  metal!  He  was  from  being 
brazen,  brass!  He  was  neither  more  nor  less  than  a 
knocker!  And  there  he  was,  nailed  to  the  door  in  the 
blazing  summer  day,  till  he  burned  almost  red-hot;  and 
there  he  was,  nailed  to  the  door  all  the  bitter  winter 
nights,  till  his  brass  nose  was  dropping  with  icicles.  And 
the  postman  came  and  rapped  at  him,  and  the  vulgarist 
boy  with  a  letter  came  and  hit  him  up  against  the  door. 
And  the  King  and  Queen  coming  home  from  a  walk  that 
evening,  the  King  said,  'Hallo,  my  dear!  you  have  had 
a  new  knocker  put  on  the  door.     AVhy,  it's  rather  like 


654  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

our  porter  in  the  face.  What  has  become  of  that  old 
vagabond?'  And  the  housemaid  came  and  scrubbed 
his  nose  with  sand-paper;  and  once  when  the  Princess 
Angehca's  little  sister  was  born,  he  was  tied  up  in  an  old 
kid  glove;  and  another  night,  some  larking  young  men 
tried  to  wrench  him  off,  and  put  him  to  the  most  excruciat- 
ing agony  with  a  turnscrew.  And  then  the  Queen  had 
a  fancy  to  have  the  colour  of  the  door  altered,  and  the 
painters  dabbed  him  over  the  mouth  and  eyes,  and 
nearly  choked  him,  as  they  painted  him  pea-green.  I 
warrant  he  had  leisure  to  repent  of  having  been  rude  to 
the  Fairy  Blackstick." 

As  the  years  went  on,  Thackeray  became  ever  more 
and  more  famous,  his  company  more  and  more  sought 
after.  "The  kind,  tall,  amusing,  grey-haired  man"  ^  was 
welcome  in  many  a  drawing-room.  Yet  with  all  his  success 
he  never  forgot  his  little  girls.  They  were  his  fast  friends 
and  companions,  and  very  often  they  wrote  while  he 
dictated  his  story  to  them.  He  worked  with  a  lazy  kind 
of  diligence.  He  could  not,  like  Scott,  sit  down  and 
write  a  certain  number  of  pages  every  morning.  He 
was  by  nature  indolent,  yet  he  got  through  a  gi'eat  deal 
of  work. 

Death  found  him  still  working  steadily.  He  had  not 
been  feeling  well,  and  one  evening  he  went  to  bed  early. 
Next  morning,  Christmas  Eve  of  1863,  he  was  found 
dead  in  bed. 

Deep  and  widespread  was  the  grief  at  Thackeray's 
death.  The  news  "saddened  England's  Christmas."  His 
friends  mourned  not  only  the  loss  of  a  great  writer  but 
"the  cheerful  companionship,  the  large  heart,  and  open 
hand,  the  simple  courteousness,  and  the  endearing  frank- 
ness of  a  brave,  true,  honest  gentleman."  ^ 

Although  he  was  buried  in  a  private  cemetery,  a  bust 

*Lord  Houghton,  *In  Punch. 


THE  CYNIC?  655 

was  almost  at  once  placed  in  Westminster  by  his  sorrowing 
friends. 

The    following   verses  were   written   by   the   editor   of 
Punch  ^  in  his  memory: — 

"He  was  a  cynic !     By  his  life  all  wrought 
Of  generous  acts^  mild  words,  and  gentle  ways; 
His  heart  wide  open  to  all  kindly  thought, 
His  hand  so  great  to  give,  his  tongue  to  praise. 

"He  was  a  cynic!     You  might  read  it  writ 
In  that  broad  brow,  crowned  with  its  silver  hair, 
In  those  blue  eyes,  with  childlike  candour  lit. 
In  the  sweet  smile  his  lips  were  wont  to  wear. 

*'He  was  a  cynic !     By  the  love  that  clung 
About  him  from  his  children,  friends,  and  kin  ; 
By  the  sharp  pain,  light  pen  and  gossip  tongue 
Wrought  in  him  chafing  the  soft  heart  within. 

"He  was  a  cynic?     Yes — if  'tis  the  cynic's  part 
To  track  the  serpent's  trail  with  saddened  eye. 
To  mark  how  good  and  ill  divide  the  heart, 
How  lives  in  chequered  shade  and  sunshine  lie: 

"How  e'en  the  best  unto  the  worst  is  knit 
By   brotherhood   of  weakness,   sin   and  care; 
How  even  in  the  worst,  sparks  may  be  lit 
To  show  all  is  not  utter  darkness  there." 

BOOK  TO  READ 

The  Rose  and  the  Ring. 

Note. — The    Rose   and   the   Ring  can   be   found   in   any   complete  edition   of 
Thackeray's  works. 

*  Shirley  Brooks. 


CHAPTER  LXXXIV 

DICKENS— SMILES  AND  TEARS 

Charles  Dickens  was  a  novelist  who  lived  and  wrote  at 
the  same  time  as  Thackeray.  He  was  indeed  only  six 
months  younger,  but  he  began  to  make  a  name  much 
earlier  and  was  known  to  fame  while  Thackeray  was  still 
a  struggling  artist.  When  they  both  became  famous 
these  two  great  writers  were  to  some  extent  rivals,  and 
those  who  read  their  books  were  divided  into  two  camps. 
For  though  both  are  men  of  genius,  they  are  men  of  widely 
differing  genius. 

John  Dickens,  the  father,  was  a  clerk  with  a  small 
salary  in  the  Navy  Pay  Office,  and  his  son  Charles  was 
born  in  1812  at  Portsea.  When  Charles  was  about  four 
his  father  was  moved  to  Chatham,  and  here  the  little  boy 
Charles  lived  until  he  was  nine.  He  was  a  very  puny 
little  boy,  and  not  able  to  join  in  the  games  of  the  other 
boys  of  his  own  age.  So  he  spent  most  of  his  time  in  a 
small  room  where  there  were  some  books  and  where  no 
one  else  besides  himself  cared  to  go.  He  not  only  read 
the  books,  but  lived  them,  and  for  weeks  together  he  would 
make  believe  to  himself  that  he  was  his  favorite  character 
in  whatever  book  he  might  be  reading.  All  his  life  he 
loved  acting  a  part  and  being  somebody  else,  and  at  one 
time  thought  of  becoming  an  actor. 

Then  when  Charles  was  seven  he  went  to  a  school 
taught  by  a  young  Baptist  minister.     It  was  not  an  un-* 

65C 


SMILES  AND  TEARS  657 

happy  life  for  the  "Very  queer  small  boy"  as  he  calls 
himself.  There  were  fields  in  which  he  could  play  his 
pretending  games,  and  there  was  a  beautiful  house  called 
Gad's  Hill  near,  at  which  he  could  go  to  look  and  dream 
that  if  he  were  very  good  and  very  clever  he  might  some 
day  be  a  fine  gentleman  and  own  that  house. 

When  the  very  queer  small  boy  was  nine  he  and  all 
his  family  moved  to  London.  Here  they  lived  in  a  mean 
little  house  in  a  mean  little  street.  There  v>'ere  now  six 
children,  and  the  father  had  grown  very  poor,  so  instead 
of  being  sent  to  school  Charles  used  to  black  the  boots 
and  make  himself  useful  about  the  house.  But  he  still 
had  his  books  to  read,  and  could  still  make  believe  to 
himself.  Things  grew  worse  and  worse  however,  and 
John  Dickens,  who  was  kind  and  careless,  got  into  debt 
deeper  and  deeper.  Everything  in  the  house  that  could 
be  done  without  was  sold,  and  one  by  one  the  precious 
books  went.  At  length  one  day  men  came  and  took  the 
father  away  to  prison  because  he  could  not  pay  his  debts. 

Then  began  for  Charles  the  most  miserable  time  of  his 
life.  The  poor,  sickly  little  chap  was  set  to  work  in  a 
blacking  factory.  His  work  was  to  cover  the  pots  of 
paste-blacking,  tie  them  down  neatly  and  paste  on  labels. 
Along  with  two  or  three  other  boys  he  worked  all  day 
long  for  six  or  seven  shillings  a  week.  Oh,  how  the  little 
boy  hated  it!  He  felt  degraded  and  ashamed.  He  felt 
that  he  was  forgotten  and  neglected  by  every  one,  and 
that  never  never  more  would  he  be  able  to  read  books 
and  play  pretending  games,  or  do  anything  that  he  loved. 
All  week  he  worked  hard,  ill  clad  and  only  half  fed,  and 
Sunday  he  spent  with  his  father  at  the  prison.  It  was  a 
miserable,  sordid,  and  pitiful  beginning  to  hfe. 

How  long  this  unhappy  time  lasted  we  do  not  know. 
Dickens  himself  could  not  remember.  He  seldom  spoke 
of  this  time,  but  he  never  forgot  the  misery  of  it.     Long 


658  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

afterwards  in  one  of  his  books  called  David  Copperfield, 
when  he  tells  of  the  unhappy  childhood  of  his  hero,  it  is 
of  his  own  he  speaks. 

But  presently  John  Dickens  got  out  of  prison,  Charles 
left  the  blacking  factory,  and  once  more  went  to  school. 
And  although  in  after  years  he  could  never  bear  to  think 
of  these  miserable  days,  at  the  time  his  spirits  were  not 
crushed,  and  at  school  he  was  known  as  a  bright  and  jolly 
boy.  He  was  always  ready  for  any  mischief,  and  took 
delight  in  getting  up  theatricals. 

At  fifteen  Dickens  left  school  and  went  into  a  lawyer's 
office,  but  he  knew  that  he  had  learned  very  little  at  school, 
and  now  set  himself  to  learn  more.  He  went  to  the 
British  Museum  Reading-room,  and  studied  there,  and  he 
also  with  a  great  deal  of  labor  taught  himself  shorthand. 

He  worked  hard,  determined  to  get  on,  and  at  nineteen 
he  found  himself  in  the  Gallery  of  the  House  of  Commons 
as  reporter  for  a  daily  paper.  Since  the  days  when  Samuel 
Johnson  reported  speeches  without  having  heard  them 
things  had  changed.  People  were  no  longer  content 
with  such  make-believe  reporting,  and  Dickens  proved 
himself  one  of  the  smartest  reporters  there  had  ever  been. 
He  not  only  reported  the  speeches,  but  told  of  everything 
that  took  place  in  the  House.  He  had  such  a  keen  eye 
for  seeing,  and  such  a  vivid  way  of  describing  what  he 
saw,  that  he  was  able  to  make  people  realize  the  scenes 
inside  the  House  as  none  had  done  before. 

Besides  reporting  in  the  Houses  of  Parliament  Dickens 
dashed  about  the  country  in  post-chaises  gathering  news 
for  his  paper,  writing  by  flickering  candle-light  while  his 
carriage  rushed  along,  at  what  seemed  then  the  tremendous 
speed  of  fifteen  miles  an  hour.  For  those  were  not  the 
days  of  railways  and  motors,  and  traveling  was  much 
slower  than  it  is  now. 

But  even  while  Dickens  was  leading  this  hurried,  busy 


SMILES  AND  TEARS  659 

life  he  found  time  to  write  other  things  besides  newspaper 
reports,  and  httle  tales  and  sketches  began  to  appear 
signed  by  Boz.  Boz  was  a  pet  name  for  Dickens's  youngest 
brother.  His  real  name  was  Augustus,  but  he  had  been 
nicknamed  Moses  after  IMoses  in  the  Vicar  of  Wakefield. 
Pronounced  through  the  nose  it  became  Boses  and  then 
Boz.  That  is  the  history  of  the  name  under  which 
Dickens  at  first  wrote  and  won  his  earliest  fame. 

The  sketches  by  Boz  were  well  received,  but  real  fame 
came  to  Dickens  with  the  Pickwick  Papers  which  he  now 
began  to  write.  This  story  came  out  in  monthly  parts. 
The  first  few  numbers  were  not  very  successful,  only  about 
four  hundred  copies  being  sold,  but  by  the  fifteenth 
number  London  was  ringing  with  the  fame  of  it,  and 
forty  thousand  copies  were  quickly  sold.  "Judges  on 
the  bench  and  boys  in  the  street,  gravity  and  folly,  the 
young  and  the  old"  ^  all  alike  read  it  and  laughed  over 
it.  Dickens  above  everything  is  a  humorist,  and  one 
of  the  chief  features  in  his  humor  is  caricature,  that  is 
exaggerating  and  distorting  one  feature  or  habit  or 
characteristic  of  a  man  out  of  all  likeness  to  nature.  This 
often  makes  very  good  fun,  but  it  takes  away  from  the 
truth  and  realness  of  his  characters.  And  yet  no  story- 
teller perhaps  is  remembered  so  little  for  his  stories  and 
so  m.uch  for  his  characters.  In  Pickwick  there  is  hardly 
any  story,  the  papers  ramble  on  in  unconnected  incidents. 
No  one  could  tell  the  story  of  Pickwick  for  there  is  really 
none  to  tell;  it  is  a  series  of  scenes  which  hang  together 
anyhow.  ''Pickwick  cannot  be  classed  as  a  novel,"  it 
has  been  said;  "it  is  merely  a  great  book."  ^ 

So  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  they  are  all  caricatures  it  is 
the  persons  of  the  Pickwick  club  that  we  remember  and 
not  their  doings.  Like  Jonson  long  before  him,  Dickens 
sees  every  man  in  his  humor.     By  his  genius  he  enables 

*  Forster.  Gissing. 


660  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

us  to  see  these  humors  too,  though  at  times  one  quality 
in  a  man  is  shown  so  strongly  that  we  fail  to  see  any  other 
in  him,  and  so  a  caricature  is  produced. 

Dickens  himself  was  full  of  fun  and  jollity.  His  was 
a  florid  personality.  He  loved  light  and  color,  and  sun- 
shine. He  almost  covered  his  walls  with  looking-glasses 
and  crowded  his  garden  with  blazing  geraniums.  He 
loved  movement  and  life,  overflowed  with  it  himself  and 
poured  it  into  his  creations,  making  them  live  in  spite  of 
rather  than  because  of  their  absurdities. 

Winkle,  one  of  the  Pickwickians,  is  a  mild  and  foolish 
boaster,  who  pretends  that  he  can  do  things  he  cannot. 
He  pretends  to  be  able  to  shoot  and  succeeds  only  in 
hitting  one  of  his  friends.  He  pretends  to  skate,  and  this 
is  how  he  succeeds: — 

"  'Now,'  said  Wardle,  after  a  substantial  lunch  had 
been  done  ample  justice  to,  'what  say  you  to  an  hour  on 
the  ice?    We  shall  have  plenty  of  time.' 

"'Capital!'  said  JSIr.  Benjamin  Allen. 

"  'Prime!'  ejaculated  Mr.  Bob  Sawyer. 

"  'You  skate  of  course,  Winkle?'  said  Wardle. 

"'Ye-yes;  oh,  yes,'  replied  Mr.  Winkle.  'I — I  am 
rather  out  of  practice.' 

'"Oh,  do  skate,  Mr.  Winkle,'  said  Arabella.  'I  like 
to  see  it  so  much.' 

"  'Oh,  it  is  so  graceful,'  said  another  young  lady.  A 
third  young  lady  said  it  was  elegant,  and  a  fourth  expressed 
her  opinion  that  it  was  'swanlike.' 

"  'I  should  be  very  happy,  I'm  sure,'  said  Mr. 
Winkle,  reddening,  'but  I  have  no  skates.' 

"This  objection  was  at  once  overruled.  Trundle  had 
a  couple  of  pair,  and  the  fat  boy  announced  that  there 
were  half-a-dozen  more,  downstairs:  whereat  Mr.  Winkle 
expressed  exquisite  delight,  and  looked  exquisitely  uncom- 
fortable. 


SMILES  AND  TEARS  C61 

"Old  Wardle  led  the  way  to  a  pretty  large  sheet  of  ice, 
and  the  fat  boy  and  Mr.  Wellcr,  having  shovelled  and 
swept  away  the  snow  which  had  fallen  on  it  during  the 
night,  ]Mr.  Bob  Sawyer  adjusted  his  skates  with  a  dexterity 
which  to  Mr.  Winkle  was  perfectly  marvellous,  and 
described  circles  with  his  left  leg,  and  cut  figures  of  eight, 
and  inscribed  upon  the  ice,  without  once  stopping  for 
breath,  a  great  many  other  pleasant  and  astonishing 
devices,  to  the  excessive  satisfaction  of  Mr.  Pickwick, 
Mr.  Tupman,  and  the  ladies:  which  reached  a  pitch  of 
positive  enthusiasm,  when  old  Wardle  and  Eenjamin 
Allen,  assisted  by  the  aforesaid  Bob  Sawyer,  performed 
some  mystic  evolutions,  which  they  called  a  reel. 

"All  this  time  Mr.  Winkle,  with  his  face  and  hands 
blue  with  the  cold,  had  been  forcing  a  gimlet  into  the 
soles  of  his  boots,  and  putting  his  skates  on,  with  the 
points  behind,  and  getting  the  straps  into  a  very  com- 
plicated and  entangled  state,  with  the  assistance  of  Mr. 
Snodgrass,  who  knew  rather  less  about  skates  than 
a  Hindoo.  At  length,  however,  with  the  assistance  of 
Mr.  Weller,  the  unfortunate  skates  were  firmly  screwed 
and  buckled  on,  and  Mr.  Winkle  w^as  raised  to  his  feet. 

"'Now,  then,  Sir,'  said  Sam,  in  an  encouraging  tone; 
'off  with  you,  and  show  'em  how  to  do  it.' 

"'Stop,  Sam,  stop!'  said  Mr.  Winkle,  trembling 
violently  and  clutching  hold  of  Sam's  arms  with  the  grasp 
of  a  drowning  man.     'How  slippery  it  is,  Sam!' 

"  'Not  a  uncommon  thing  upon  ice.  Sir,'  replied  Mr. 
Weller.    'Hold  up.  Sir!' 

"This  last  observation  of  Mr.  Weller 's  bore  reference 
to  a  demonstration  Mr.  Winkle  made  at  the  instant,  of  a 
frantic  desire  to  throw  his  feet  in  the  air,  and  dash  the 
back  of  his  head  on  the  ice. 

"  'These — these — are  very  awkward  skates ;  ain't 
they,  Sam?'  inquired  Mr.  Winkle,  staggering. 


662  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

"  T'm  afeerd  there's  an  orkard  gen'l'm'n  in  'em,  Sir,' 
replied  Sam. 

"'Now,  Winkle,'  cried  Mr.  Pickwick,  quite  uncon- 
scious that  there  was  anything  the  matter.  'Come,  the 
ladies  are  all  anxiety.' 

"  'Yes,  yes,'  replied  Mr.  Winkle,  with  a  ghastly  smile. 
'I'm  coming.' 

"  'Just  a-goin'  to  begin,'  said  Sam,  endeavouring  to 
disengage  himself.    'Now,  Sir,  start  off!' 

"  'Stop  an  instant,  Sam,'  gasped  Mr.  Winkle,  clinging 
most  affectionately  to  ^Ir.  Weller.  'I  find  I've  got  a 
couple  of  coats  at  home,  that  I  don't  want,  Sam.  You 
may  have  them,  Sam.' 

*"  'Thank'ee,  Sir,'  replied  Mr.  Weller. 

"  'Never  mind  touching  your  hat,  Sam,'  said  Mr. 
Winkle,  hastily.  'You  needn't  take  your  hand  away  to 
do  that.  I  meant  to  have  given  you  five  shillings  this 
morning  for  a  Christmas-box,  Sam.  I'll  give  it  you  this 
afternoon,  Sam.' 

"  'You're  wery  good.  Sir,'  replied  Mr.  Weller. 

"  'Just  hold  me  at  first,  Sam;  will  you?'  said 
Mr.  Winkle.  'There — that's  right.  I  shall  soon  get  in  the 
way  of  it,  Sam.    Not  too  fast,  Sam;  not  too  fast.' 

"Mr.  Winkle,  stooping  forward  with  his  body  half 
doubled  up,  was  being  assisted  over  the  ice  by  INIr.  Weller, 
in  a  very  singular  and  un-swanlike  manner,  when  Mr. 
Pickwick  most  innocently  shouted  from  the  opposite 
bank, — 

"'Sam!' 

"'Sir?'  said  Mr.  Weller. 

"  'Here,  I  want  you.' 

"  'Let  go.  Sir,'  said  Sam.  'Don't  you  hear  the  governor 
a-callin'?    Let  go.  Sir.' 

"With  a  violent  effort  Mr.  Weller  disengaged  himself 
from  the  grasp  of  the  agonised  Pickwickian;   and,   in  so 


SMILES  AND  TEARS  663 

doing,  administered  a  considerable  impetus  to  the  unhappy 
JNIr.  Winkle.  With  an  accuracy  which  no  degree  of 
dexterity  or  practice  could  have  insured,  that  unfortunate 
gentleman  bore  swiftly  down  into  the  centre  of  the  reel, 
at  the  very  moment  when  Mr.  Bob*  Sawyer  was  performing 
a  flourish  of  unparalleled  beauty.  Mr.  Winkle  struck 
wildly  against  him,  and  with  a  loud  crash  they  both  fell 
heavily  down. 

"]\Ir.  Pickwick  ran  to  the  spot.  Bob  Sawyer  had 
risen  to  his  feet,  but  ]\Ir.  Winkle  was  far  too  wise  to  do 
anything  of  the  kind,  in  skates.  He  was  seated  on  the 
ice,  making  spasmodic  efforts  to  smile,  but  anguish  was 
depicted  on  every  lineament  of  his  countenance. 

"  'Are  you  hurt?'  inquired  Mr.  Benjamin  Allen,  with 
great  anxiety. 

"  'Not  much,'  said  Mr.  Winkle,  rubbing  his  back  very 
hard. 

"  'I  wish  you'd  let  me  bleed  you,'  said  Mr.  Benjamin, 
with  great  eagerness. 

"  'No,  thank  you,'  replied  Mr.  Winkle,  hurriedly. 

"  'What  do  you  think,  Mr.  Pickwick?'  enquired  Bob 
Sawyer. 

"jNIr.  Pickwick  was  excited  and  indignant.  He 
beckoned  to  Mr.  Weller,  and  said  in  a  stern  voice,  'Take 
his  skates  oiF.' 

"'No;  but  really  I  had  scarcely  begun,'  remonstrated 
Mr.  Winkle. 

"  'Take  his  skates  off,'  repeated  Mr.  Pickwick  firmly. 

"The  command  was  not  to  be  resisted.  Mr.  Winkle 
allowed  Sam  to  obey  it,  in  silence. 

"  'Lift  him  up,'  said  Mr.  Pickwick.  Sam  assisted  him 
to  rise. 

"Mr.  Pickwick  retired  a  few  paces  apart  from  the 
bystanders;  and  beckoning  his  friend  to  approach, 
fixed  a  searching  look  upon  him,   and   uttered  in  a  low, 


664  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

but  distinct  and  emphatic  tone,  these  remarkable 
words, — 

"  'You're  a  humbug,  Sir.' 

"  'A  what!'  said  ]Mr.  Winkle  starting. 

"  'A  humbug.  Sir.  I  will  speak  plainer,  if  you  wish 
it.    An  impostor,  Sir.' 

"With  these  words  IMr.  Pickwick  turned  slowly  on  his 
heel,  and  rejoined  his  friends." 

There  is  much  life  and  fun  and  jollity  and  some  vulgar- 
ity in  Pickwick.  There  is  a  good  deal  of  eating  and  far 
too  much  drinking.  But  when  the  fun  is  rather  rough, 
we  must  remember  that  Dickens  wrote  of  the  England 
of  seventy  years  ago  and  more,  when  life  was  rougher  than 
it  is  now,  and  when  people  did  not  see  that  drinking  was 
the  sordid  sin  we  know  it  to  be  now. 

To  many  people  Pickwick  remains  Dickens's  best  book. 
"The  glory  of  Charles  Dickens,"  it  has  been  said,  "will 
always  be  in  his  Pickwick^  his  first,  his  best,  his  inimitable 
triumph."  ^ 

Just  when  Dickens  began  to  write  Pickwick  he  married, 
and  soon  we  find  him  comfortably  settled  in  a  London 
house,  while  the  other  great  writers  of  his  day  gathered 
round  him  as  his  friends. 

Although  not  born  in  London,  Dickens  was  a  true 
liondoner,  and  when  his  work  was  done  he  loved  no- 
thing better  than  to  roam  the  streets.  He  was  a  great 
walker,  and  thought  nothing  of  going  twenty  or  thirty  miles 
a  day,  for  though  he  was  small  and  slight  he  had  quite 
recovered  from  his  childish  sickliness  and  was  full  of  wiry 
energy.  The  crowded  streets  of  London  were  his  books. 
As  he  wandered  through  them  his  clear  blue  eyes  took  note 
of  everything,  and  when  he  was  far  away,  among  the  lovely 
sights  of  Italy  or  Switzerland,  he  was  homesick  for  the 
grimy  streets  and  hurrying  crowds  of  London. 

"  Fred  Harrison. 


SMILES  AND  TEARS  665 

After  Pickwick  many  other  stories  followed;  in  them 
Dickens  showed  his  power  not  only  of  making  people 
laugh,  but  of  making  them  cry.  For  the  source  of  laughter 
and  the  source  of  tears  are  not  very  far  apart.  There  is 
scarcely  another  writer  whose  pathetic  scenes  are  so 
famous  as  those  of  Dickens. 

In  life  there  is  a  great  deal  that  is  sad,  and  one  of  the 
things  which  touched  Dickens  most  deeply  was  the  misery 
of  children.  The  children  of  to-day  are  happy  in  knowing 
nothing  of  tlie  miseries  of  childhood  as  it  was  in  the  days 
when  Dickens  wrote.  In  those  days  tiny  children  had 
to  work  ten  or  twelve  hours  a  day  in  factories,  many 
schools  were  places  of  terror  and  misery,  and  few  people 
card.  But  Dickens  saw  and  cared  and  wrote  about 
these  things.  And  now  they  are  of  a  bygone  day.  So 
children  may  remember  Dickens  with  thankful  hearts. 
He  is  one  of  their  great  champions, 

Dickens  loved  children  and  they  loved  him,  for  he  had 
a  most  winning  way  with  them  and  he  understood  their 
little  joys  and  sorrows.  "There  are  so  many  people," 
says  his  daughter  writing  about  her  father,  "There  are 
so  many  people  good,  kind,  and  aifectionate,  but  who  can 
not  remember  that  they  once  were  children  themselves, 
and  looked  out  upon  the  world  with  a  child's  eyes  only.'' 
This  Dickens  did  always  remember,  and  it  made  him  a 
tender  and  delightful  father  to  whom  his  children  looked 
up  with  something  of  adoration.  "Ever  since  I  can 
remember  anything,"  says  his  daughter,  "I  remember 
him  as  the  good  genius  of  the  house,  or  as  its  happy, 
bright  and  funny  genius."  As  Thackeray  had  a  special 
handwriting  for  each  daughter,  Dickens  had  a  special 
voice  for  each  child,  so  that  without  being  named  each 
knew  when  he  or  she  was  spoken  to.  He  sang  funny 
songs  to  them  and  told  funny  stories,  did  conjuring 
tricks  and  got  up  theatricals,  shared  their  fun  and  com- 


666  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

forted  their  sorrows.  And  this  same  power  of  under- 
standing M'hich  made  him  enter  into  the  joys  and  sorrows 
of  his  children,  made  him  enter  into  the  joys  and  sorrows 
of  the  big  world  around  him.  So  that  the  people  of  that 
big  world  loved  him  as  a  friend,  and  adored  him  as  a  hero. 
As  the  years  went  on  Dickens  wrote  more  and  more 
books.  He  started  a  magazine  too,  first  called  Household 
Woi'ds  and  later  xill  the  Year  Round.  In  this,  some  of 
his  own  works  came  out  as  well  as  the  works  of  other 
wTiters.  It  added  gi-eatly  to  his  popularity  and  not  a 
little  to  his  wealth.  And  as  he  became  rich  and  famous, 
his  boyish  dream  came  true.  He  bought  the  house  of 
Gad's  Hill  which  had  seemed  so  splendid  and  so  far  oif  in 
his  childish  eyes,  and  went  to  live  there  with  his  big  family 
of  growing  boys  and  girls. 

It  was  about  this  time,  too,  that  Dickens  found  a  new 
way  of  entertaining  the  world.  He  not  only  wrote  books 
but  he  himself  read  them  to  great  audiences.  All  his  life 
Dickens  had  loved  acting.  Indeed  he  very  nearly  became 
an  actor  before  he  found  out  his  great  powers  of  writing. 
He  many  times  took  part  in  private  theatricals,  one  of 
his  favorite  parts,  you  will  like  to  know,  being  Captain 
Bobadil,  in  Jonson's  Every  Man  in  his  Humour.  And 
now  all  the  actor  in  him  delighted  in  the  reading  of  his 
own  works,  so  although  many  of  his  friends  were  very 
much  against  these  readings,  he  went  on  with  them. 
And  wherever  he  read  in  England,  Scotland,  Ireland, 
and  America,  crowds  flocked  to  hear  him.  Dickens 
swayed  his  audiences  at  will.  He  made  them  laugh,  and 
cry,  and  whether  they  laughed  or  whether  they  cried  they 
cheered  and  applauded  him.  It  was  a  triumph  and  an 
evidence  of  his  power  in  which  Dickens  delighted  and 
which  he  could  not  forego,  although  his  friends  thought  it 
was  beneath  his  dignity  as  an  author. 

But  the  strain  and  excitement  were  too  much.     These 


SMILES  AND  TEARS  G67 

readings  broke  down  Dickens's  health  and  wore  him  out. 
He  was  at  last  forced  to  give  them  up,  but  it  was  already 
too  late.  A  few  months  later  he  died  suddenly  one 
evening  in  June  1870  in  his  house  at  Gad's  Hill.  He  was 
buried  in  Westminster,  and  although  the  funeral  was  very 
quiet  and  simple  as  he  himself  had  wished,  for  two  days 
after  a  constant  stream  of  mourners  came  to  place  flowers 
upon  his  grave. 

I  have  not  given  you  a  list  of  Dickens's  books  because 
they  are  to  be  found  in  nearly  every  liousehold.  You 
will  soon  be  able  to  read  them  and  learn  to  know  the 
characters  whose  names  have  become  household  words. 

Dickens  was  the  novelist  of  the  poor,  the  shabby 
genteel,  and  the  lower  middle  class.  It  has  been  said 
many  times  that  in  all  his  novels  he  never  drew  for  us  a 
single  gentleman,  and  that  is  very  nearly  true.  But  we 
need  little  regret  that,  for  he  has  left  us  a  rich  array  of 
characters  we  might  never  otherwise  have  known,  such  as 
perhaps  no  other  man  could  have  pictured  for  us. 

BOOKS  TO  READ 
Stories  from  Dick«iu,  by  J.  W.  M'Spadden.    The  Children's  Dickens. 


CHAPTER  LXXXV 

TENNYSON— THE  POET  OF  FRIENDSHIP 

Keats  had  lain  beneath  the  Roman  violets  six  years,  and 
Shelley  somewhat  less  than  five,  when  a  little  volume  of 
poems  was  published  in  England.  It  was  called  Poems 
by  two  Brothers.  No  one  took  anj^  notice  of  it,  and  yet  in 
it  was  the  first  little  twitter  of  one  of  our  sweetest  singing 
birds.  For  the  two  brothers  were  Alfred  and  Charles 
Tennyson,  boys  then  of  sixteen  and  seventeen.  It  is  of 
Alfred  that  I  mean  to  tell  you  in  this  last  chapter.  You 
have  heard  of  him  already  in  one  of  the  chapters  on  the 
Arthur  story,  and  also  you  have  heard  of  him  as  a  friend  of 
Carlyle.    And  now  I  will  tell  you  a  little  more  about  him. 

Alfred  Tennyson  was  born  in  1809  in  the  Lincolnshire 
village  of  Somersby.  His  father  was  the  rector  there,  and 
had,  besides  Alfred,  eleven  other  children.  And  here  about 
the  Rectory  garden,  orchard  and  fields,  the  Tennyson 
children  played  at  knights  and  warriors.  Beyond  the  field 
flowed  a  brook — 

"That  loves 
To  purl  o'er  matted  cress  and  ribbed  sand. 
Or  dimple  in  the  dark  of  rushy  coves. 
Drawing  into  his  narrow  earthen  urn. 

In  every  elbow  and  turn, 
The  filter'd  tribute  of  the  rough  woodland."  * 

Of  the  garden  and  the  fields  and  of  the  brook  especially, 
Alfred  kept  a  memory  all  through  his  long  life.     But  at 

'  Ode  to  Memory. 
668 


THE  POET  OF  FRIENDSHIP  669 

seven  he  was  sent  to  live  with  his  grandmother  and  go  to 
school  at  Louth,  about  ten  miles  away.  "How  I  did  hate 
that  jchool!"  he  said,  long  afterwards,  so  we  may  suppose 
the  years  he  spent  there  were  not  altogether  happy.  But 
when  he  was  eleven  he  went  home  again  to  be  taught  by 
his  father,  vmtil  he  went  to  Cambridge. 

At  home  Alfred  read  a  great  deal,  especially  poetry. 
He  wrote,  too,  romances  like  Sir  Walter  Scott's,  full  of 
battles,  epics  in  the  manner  of  Pope,  plays,  and  blank 
verse.  He  wrote  so  much  that  his  father  said,  "If  Alfred 
die,  one  of  our  greatest  poets  will  have  gone."  And 
besides  writing  poems,  Alfred,  who  was  one  of  the  big 
children,  used  to  tell  stories  to  the  little  ones, — stories 
these  of  knights  and  ladies,  giants  and  dragons  and  all 
manner  of  wonderful  things.  So  the  years  passed,  and  one 
day  the  two  boys,  Charles  and  Alfred,  resolved  to  print 
their  poems,  and  took  them  to  a  bookseller  in  Louth. 
He  gave  them  £20  for  the  manuscript,  but  more  than  half 
was  paid  in  books  out  of  his  shop.  So  the  grand  beginning 
was  made.  But  the  little  book  caused  no  stir  in  the  great 
world.    No  one  knew  that  a  poet  had  broken  silence. 

The  next  year  Charles  and  Alfred  went  to  Cambridge. 
Alfred  soon  made  many  friends  among  the  clever  young 
men  of  his  day,  chief  among  them  being  Arthur  Hallam, 
whose  father  was  a  famous  historian. 

At  college  Tennyson  won  the  Chancellor's  prize  for  a 
poem  on  Timbuctoo,  and  the  following  year  he  published 
a  second  little  volume  of  poems.  This,  though  kindly 
received  by  some  great  writers,  made  hardly  more  stir  than 
the  little  volume  by  "Two  Brothers." 

Tennyson  did  not  take  a  degree  at  Cambridge,  for, 
owing  to  his  father's  failing  health,  he  was  called  home. 
He  left  college,  perhaps  with  no  very  keen  regret,  for  his 
heart  was  not  in  sympathy  with  the  teaching.  In  his 
undergraduate   days  he  wrote  some   scathing  lines  about 


670  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

it.  You  "teach  us  nothing,"  he  said,  "feeding  not  the 
heart."  But  he  did  remember  with  tenderness  that 
Cambridge  had  been  the  spot  where  his  first  and  warmest 
friendships  had  been  formed. 

Soon  after  Alfred  left  college,  his  father  died  very 
suddenly.  Although  the  father  was  now  gone  the  Tenny- 
sons  did  not  need  to  leave  their  home,  for  the  new  rector 
did  not  want  the  house.  So  life  in  the  Rectory  went 
quietly  on;  friends  came  and  went,  the  dearest  friend  of 
all,  Arthur  Hallam,  came  often,  for  he  loved  the  poet's 
young  sister,  and  one  day  they  were  to  be  married.  It 
was  a  peaceful  happy  time — 

"And  all  we  met  was  fair  and  good. 

And  all  was  good  that  Time  could  bring. 
And  all  the  secret  of  the  Spring, 
Moved  in  the  chambers  of  the  blood." 

Long  days  were  spent  reading  poetry  and  talking  of  many 
things — 

"Or  in  the  all-golden  afternoon 

A  guest,  or  happy  sister,  sung. 
Or  here  she  brought  the  harp  and  flung 
A  ballad  to  the  brightening  moon. 

"Nor  less  it  pleased  the  livelier  moods, 

Beyond  the  bounding  hill  to  stray, 
And  break  the  live  long  summer  day 
With  banquet  in  the  distant  woods." 

And  amid  this  pleasant  country  life  the  poet  worked  on, 
and  presently  another  little  book  of  poems  appeared.  Still 
fame  did  not  come,  and  one  severe  and  blundering  review 
kept  Tennyson,  it  is  said,  from  publishing  anything  more 
for  ten  years. 

But  now  there  fell  upon  him  what  was  perhaps  the 
darkest  sorrow  of  his  life.  Arthur  Hallam,  who  was 
traveling    on    the    Continent,    died    suddenly    at    Vienna. 


THE  POET  or  FRIENDSHIP  671 

When  the  news  came  to  Tennyson  that  his  friend  was 
gone — 

"That  in   Vienna's   fatal  walls 
God's  finger  touch'd  him,  and  he  slept/' 

for  a  time  all  joy  seemed  blotted  out  of  life,  and  only  that 
he  might  help  to  comfort  his  sister  did  he  wish  to  live,  for — 

"That  remorseless  iron  hour 

Made  cypress  of  her  orange  flower. 
Despair  of  Hope." 

As  an  outcome  of  this  grief  we  have  one  of  Tennyson's 
finest  poems.  In  Memoriain.  It  is  an  elegy  which  we 
jilace  beside  Lycidas  and  Adonais.  But  In  Memoriam 
strikes  a  yet  sadder  note.  For  in  Lycidas  and  Adonais 
Milton  and  Shelley  mourned  kindred  souls  rather  than 
dear  loved  friends.  To  Tennyson,  Arthur  Hallam  was 
"The  brother  of  my  love" — 

"Dear  as  the  mother  to  the  son 
More  than  my  brothers  are  to  me." 

In  3Iemoriam  is  a  group  of  poems  rather  than  one 
long  poem — 

"Short  swallow-flights  of  song,  that  dip 
Their  wings  in  tears,  and  skim  away." 

It  is  written  in  a  meter  which  Tennyson  believed  he  had 
invented,  but  which  Ben  Jonson  and  others  had  used 
before  him.  Two  hundred  years  before  Jonson  had 
written  a  little  elegy  beginning — 

"Though  Beautie  be  the  Marke  of  praise. 
And  yours  of  whom  I  sing  be  such 
As  not  the  world  can  praise  too  much, 
Yet  is't  your  vertue  noAV  I  raise." 

Here  again  we  see  that  our  literature  of  to-day  is  no 
new  born  thing,  but  rooted  in  the  past.     Jonson's  poem, 


672  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

however,  is  a  mere  trifle,  Tennyson's  one  of  the  great 
things  of  our  hterature.  The  first  notes  of  In  Memoriam 
were  written  when  sorrow  was  fresh,  but  it  was  not  till 
seventeen  years  later  that  it  was  given  to  the  world.  It 
is  perhaps  the  most  perfect  monument  ever  raised  to 
friendship.  For  in  mourning  his  own  loss  Tennyson 
mourned  the  loss  of  all  the  world.  "  'I'  is  not  always  the 
author  speaking  of  himself,  but  the  voice  of  the  human 
race  speaking  thro'  him,"  he  says. 

After  the  prologue,  the  poem  tells  of  the  first  bitter 
hopeless  grief,  of  how  friends  try  to  comfort  the  mourners. 

"One   writes,   that   'Other   friends   remain,' 
That  'Loss  is  common  to  the  race' — 
And  common  is  the  common-place, 
And  vacant  chaff  well  meant  for  grain. 

"That  loss  is  common  would  not  make 
My  own  less  bitter,  rather  more: 
Too  common  !     Never  morning  wore 
To  evening,  but  some  heart  did  break." 

And  yet  even  now  he  can  say — 

"I  hold  it  true,  whate'er  befall; 

I  feel  it,  when  I  sorrow  most; 
'Tis  better  to  have  loved  and  lost 
Than  never  to  have  loved  at  all." 

And  so  the  months  glide  by,  and  the  first  Christmas  comes, 
"The  time  draws  near  the  birth  of  Christ,"  the  bells  ring — 

"Peace  and  goodwill,  goodwill  and  peace. 
Peace  and  goodwill,  to  all  mankind. 

"This  year  I  slept  and  woke  with  pain, 
I  almost  wish'd  no  more  to  wake, 
And  that  my  hold  on  life  would  break 
Before  I  heard  those  bells  again." 


THE  POET  OF  FRIENDSHIP  673 

But  when  Christmas  comes  again  the  year  has  brought 
calm  if  not  forgetfulness— 

"Again  at  Christmas  did  we  weave 

The  holly  round  the  Christmas  hearth; 
The   silent  snow  possess'd  the  earth. 
And   calmly   fell  our   Christmas-eve: 

"The  yule-log  sparkled  keen  with   frost. 
No  wing  of  wind  the  region  swept. 
But  over  all  things  brooding  slept 
The  quiet  sense  of  something  lost. 

"As  in  the  winters  left  behind. 

Again  our  ancient  games  had  place. 
The  mimic  picture's  breathing  grace, 
And  dance  and  song  and  hoodman-blind." 

The  years  pass  on,  the  brothers  and  sisters  grow  up  and 
scatter,  and  at  last  the  old  home  has  to  be  left.  Sadly  the 
poet  takes  leave  of  all  the  loved  spots  in  house  and  garden. 
Strangers  will  soon  come  there,  people  who  will  neither 
care  for  nor  love  the  dear  familiar  scene — 

"We  leave  the  well-beloved  place 

Where  first  we  gazed  upon  the  sky; 
The  roofs,  that  heard  our  earliest  cry, 
Will  shelter  one  of  stranger  race. 

"We  go,  but  ere  we  go  from  home, 

As  down  the  garden-walks  I  move. 
Two  spirits  of  a  diverse  love 
Contend   for  loving  masterdom. 

"One  whispers,  'Here  thy  boyhood  sung 

Long  since  its  matin  song,  and  heard 
The  low  love-language  of  the  bird 
In  native  hazels  tassel-hung.' 

"The  other  answers,  'Yea,  but  here 

Thy  feet  have  stray'd  in  after  hours 
With  thy  lost  friend  among  the  bowers. 
And  this  hath  made  them  trebly  dear.'  " 


674  ETs^GLISH  LITERATURE 

The  poem  moves  on,  and  once  again  in  the  new  home 
Christmas  comes  round.  Here  everything  is  strange, 
the  very  bells  seem  like  strangers'  voices.  But  with  this 
new  life  new  strength  has  come,  and  sorrow  has  hence- 
forth lost  its  sting.  And  with  the  ringing  of  the  New  Year 
bells  a  new  tone  comes  into  the  poem,  a  tone  no  more  of 
despair,  but  of  hope. 

"Ring  out,  wild  bells,  to  the  wild  sky. 
The  flying  cloud,  the  frosty  light: 
The  year  is  dying  in  the  night; 
Ring  out,  wild  bells,  and  let  him  die. 

"Ring  out  the  old,  ring  in  the  new. 

Ring,  happy  bells,  across  the  snow: 
The  year  is  going,  let  him  go; 
Ring  out  the  false,  ring  in  the  true 

"Ring  out  the  grief  that  saps  the  mind, 
For  those  that  here  we  see  no  more; 
Ring  out  the  feud  of  rich  and  poor. 
Ring  in  redress  to  all  mankind. 

"Ring  in  the  valiant  man  and  free, 

The  larger  heart,  the  kindlier  hand; 
Ring  out  the  darkness  of  the  land. 
Ring  in  the  Christ  that  is  to  be." 

After  this  the  tone  of  the  poem  changes  and  the  poet  says — 

"I  will  not  shut  me  from  my  kind. 
And,  lest  I  stiffen  into  stone, 
I  will  not  eat  my  heart  alone. 
Nor  feed  with  sighs  a  passing  wind: 

"Regret  is  dead,  but  love  is  more 

Than  in  the  summers  that  are  flown. 
For  I  myself  with  these  have  grown 
To  something  greater  than  before." 

One  more  event  is  recorded,  the  wedding  of  the  poet's 
youngest  sister,  nine  years  after  the  death  of  his  friend. 


THE  POET  OF  FRIENDSHIP  675 

And  with  this  note  of  gladness  and  hope  in  the  future  the 
poem  ends. 

Time  heals  all  things,  and  time  healed  Tennyson's 
grief.  But  there  was  another  reason,  of  which  we  hardly 
catch  a  glimpse  in  the  poem,  for  his  return  to  peace  and 
hope.  Another  love  had  come  into  his  life,  the  love  of 
the  lady  who  one  day  was  to  be  his  wife.  At  first,  however, 
it  seemed  a  hopeless  love,  for  in  spite  of  his  growing 
reputation  as  a  poet,  Tennyson  was  still  poor,  too  poor  to 
marry.  And  so  for  fourteen  years  he  worked  and  waited, 
at  times  wellnigh  losing  hope.  But  at  length  the  waiting 
was  over  and  the  wedding  took  place.  Tennyson  amused 
the  guests  by  saying  that  it  was  the  nicest  wedding  he  had 
ever  been  at.  And  long  afterwards  with  solemn  thank- 
fulness he  said,  speaking  of  his  wife,  "The  peace  of  God 
came  into  my  life  before  the  altar  when  I  wedded  her." 

A  few  months  before  the  wedding  Wordsworth  had 
died.  One  night  a  few  months  after  it  Tennyson  dreamt 
that  the  Prince  Consort  came  and  kissed  him  on  the  cheek. 
"Very  kind  but  very  German,"  he  said  in  his  dream. 
Next  morning  a  letter  arrived  offering  him  the  Laureate- 
ship. 

One  of  the  first  poems  Tennyson  wrote  as  laureate 
was  his  Ode  on  the  Death  of  Wellington.  Few  people  liked 
it  at  the  time,  but  now  it  has  taken  its  place  among  our 
fine  poems,  and  many  of  its  lines  are  familiar  household 
words. 

Of  Tennyson's  many  beautiful  short  poems  there  is 
no  room  here  to  tell.  He  wrote  several  plays  too,  but  they 
are  among  the  least  read  and  the  least  remembered  of 
his  works.  For  Tennyson  was  a  lyrical  rather  than  a 
dramatic  poet.  His  long  poems  besides  In  Mernoriani  are 
The  Princess,  Maud,  and  the  Idylls  of  the  King.  The 
Princess  is  perhaps  the  first  of  Tennyson's  long  poems 
that  you  will  like  to  read.    It  is  full  of  gayety,  young  life, 


676  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

and  color.  It  is  a  mock  heroic  tale  of  a  princess  who 
does  not  wish  to  marry  and  who  founds  a  college  for 
women,  within  the  walls  of  which  no  man  may  enter. 
But  the  Prince  to  whom  the  Princess  has  been  betrothed 
since  childhood  and  who  loves  her  from  having  seen  her 
portrait  only,  enters  with  his  friends  disguised  as  women 
students.  The  result  is  confusion,  war,  and  finally  peace. 
The  story  must  not  be  taken  too  seriously;  it  is  a  poem, 
not  a  treatise,  but  it  is  interesting,  especially  at  this  time. 
For  even  you  who  read  this  book  must  know  that  the 
question  has  not  yet  been  settled  as  to  how  far  a  woman 
ought  to  be  educated  and  take  her  share  in  the  world's 
work.  But  forget  that  and  read  it  only  for  its  light- 
hearted  poetry.  The  Princess  is  in  blank  verse,  but 
throughout  there  are  scattered  beautiful  songs  which  add 
to  the  charm.    Here  is  one  of  the  most  musical — 

"Sweet  and  low,  sweet  and  low, 

Wind  of  the  western  sea. 
Low,  low,  breathe  and  blow, 

Wind  of  the  western  sea! 
Over  the  rolling  waters  go, 
Come    from  the  dying  moon,  and  blow. 

Blow  him  again  to  me; 
While  my  little  one,  while  my  pretty  one,  sleeps. 

"Sleep  and  rest,  sleep  and  rest. 

Father  will  come  to  thee  soon; 
Rest,  rest,  on  mother's  breast, 

Father  will  come  to  thee  soon; 
Father  will  come  to  his  babe  in  the  nest. 
Silver  sails  all  out  of  the  west 

Under  the  silver  moon : 
Sleep,  my  little  one,  sleep,  my  pretty  one,  sleep." 

In  the  Idylls  of  the  King,  Tennyson,  as  you  have  already 
heard  in  Chapter  ix.,  used  the  old  story  of  Arthur.  He 
used  the  old  story,  but  he  wove  into  it  something  new,  for 
we  are  meant  to  see  in  his  twelve  tales  of  the  round  table 


THE  POET  OF  FRIENDSHIP  677 

an  allegory.  We  are  meant  to  see  the  struggle  between 
what  is  base  and  what  is  noble  in  human  nature.  But 
this  inner  meaning  is  not  always  easy  to  follow,  and  we 
may  cast  the  allegory  aside,  and  still  have  left  to  us 
beautiful  dream-like  tales  which  carry  us  away  into  a 
strange  wonderland.  Like  The  Faery  Queen^  the  Idylls 
of  the  King  is  full  of  pictures.  Here  we  find  a  fairy  city, 
towered  and  turreted,  dark  woods,  wild  wastes  and 
swamps,  slow  gliding  rivers  all  in  a  misty  dreamland. 
And  this  dreamland  is  peopled  by  knights  and  ladies  who 
move  through  it  clad  in  radiant  robes  and  glittering 
armor.  Jewels  and  rich  coloring  gleam  and  glow  to 
the  eye,  songs  fall  upon  the  ear.  And  over  all  rules  the 
blameless  King. 

"And  Arthur  and  his  knighthood   for  a  space 
Were  all  one  will,  and  thro'  that  strength  the  King 
Drew  in  the  petty  princedoms   under   him, 
Fought,  and  in  twelve  great  battles  overcame 
The  heathen  hordes,  and  made  a  realm  and  reign'd." 

One  story  of  the  Idylls  I  have  already  told  you.  Same 
day  you  will  read  the  others,  and  learn  for  yourselves — 

"This  old  imperfect  tale. 
New-old,  and  shadowing  Sense  at  war  with  Soul 
Rather  than  that  gray  King,  whose  name,  a  ghost. 
Streams  like  a  cloud,  man-shaped,  from  mountain  peak, 
And  cleaves  to  cairn  and  cromlech  still;  or  him 
Of  Geoffrey's  book,  or  him  of  Malleor's." 

Tennyson  led  a  peaceful,  simple  life.  He  made  his 
home  for  the  most  part  in  the  Isle  of  Wight.  Here  he 
lived  quietly,  surrounded  by  his  family,  but  sought  after 
by  all  the  great  people  of  his  day.  He  refused  a  baronetcy, 
but  at  length  in  1883  accepted  a  peerage  and  became 
Lord  Tennyson,  the  first  baron  of  his  name.  He  was  the 
first  peer  to  receive  a  title  purely  because  of  his  literary 


678  ENGLISH  LITERATURE 

work.  And  so  with  gathering  honors  and  gathering 
years  the  poet  Hved  and  worked,  a  splendid  old  man. 
Then  at  the  goodly  age  of  eighty-four  he  died  in  the 
autumn  of  1892. 

He  was  buried  in  Westminster,  not  far  from  Chaucer, 
and  as  he  was  laid  among  the  mighty  dead  the  choir  sang 
Crossing  the  Bar,  one  of  his  latest  and  most  beautiful 
poems. 

"Sunset  and  evening  star, 
And  one  clear  call  for  me ! 
And  may  there  be  no  moaning  of  the  bar. 
When  I  put  out  to  sea, 

"But  such  a  tide  as  moving  seems  asleep, 
Too  full  for  sound  and  foam. 
When  that  which  drew  from  out  the  boundless  deep 
Turns  again  home. 

"Twilight  and  evening  bell. 
And  after  that  the  dark ! 
And  may  there  be  no  sadness  of  farewell. 
When  I  embark; 

"For  tho'  from  out  our  bourne  of  Time  and  Place 
The  flood  may  bear  me  far, 
I  hope  to  see  my  Pilot  face  to  face 
When  I  have  crost  the  bar." 

With  Tennyson  I  end  my  book,  because  my  design 
was  not  to  give  you  a  history  of  our  literature  as  it  is  now, 
so  much  as  to  show  you  how  it  grew  to  be  what  it  is.  In 
the  beginning  of  this  book  I  took  the  Arthur  story  as  a 
pattern  or  type  of  how  a  story  grew,  showing  how  it  passed 
through  many  stages,  in  each  stage  gaining  something 
of  beauty  and  of  breadth.  In  the  same  way  I  have  tried 
to  show  how  from  a  rough  foundation  of  minstrel  tales 
and  monkish  legends  the  great  palace  of  our  literature 
has  slowly  risen  to  be  a  glorious  house  of  song.    It  is  only 


THE  POET  OF  FRIENDSHIP  679 

an  outline  that  I  have  given  you.  There  are  some  great 
names  that  demand  our  reverence,  many  that  call  for  our 
love,  for  whom  no  room  has  been  found  in  this  book.  For 
our  literature  is  so  great  a  thing  that  no  one  book  can 
compass  it,  no  young  brain  comprehend  it.  But  if  I  have 
awakened  in  you  a  desire  to  know  more  of  our  literature, 
a  desire  to  fill  in  and  color  for  yourselves  this  outline 
picture,  I  shall  be  well  repaid,  and  have  succeeded  in  what 
I  aimed  at  doing.  If  I  have  helped  you  to  see  that 
Literature  need  be  no  dreary  lesson  I  shall  be  more  than 
repaid. 

"They  use  me  as  a  lesson-book  at  schools,"  said  Tenny- 
son, "and  they  will  call  me  'that  horrible  Tennyson.'  "  I 
should  like  to  think  that  the  time  is  coming  when  school- 
girls and  schoolboys  will  say,  "We  have  Tennyson  for 
a  school-book.  How  nice."  I  should  like  to  think  that 
they  will  say  this  not  only  of  Tennyson,  but  of  many  other 
of  our  great  writers  whose  very  names  come  as  rest  and 
refreshment  to  those  of  us  who  have  learned  to  love  them. 

BOOK  TO  READ 
Tennyson  for  the  Young,  Alfred  Ainger. 


CHRONOLOGICAL  LIST  OF  WRITERS 
NOTICED  IN  THIS  VOLUME 


Writers  prior  to  Fourteenth  Cen- 
tury. 


1301-1400 — Edward  i.,  Edward 
II.,  Edward  hi.,  Richard  ii. 

1401-1450 — Henry  iv.,  Henry 
v.,  Henry  vi, 

1451-1500 — Henry  vi.,  Edward 
IV.  &  v.,  Richard  hi.,  Henry 

VII. 

1501-1550 — Henry  \n.,  Henry 
VIII.,  Edward  vi. 

1551-1600 — Edward  vi.,  Mary, 
Elizabeth. 

I601-l650 — James  i.,  Charles  i. 


1 65 1-1 700 — Commonwealth, 
Charles  ii.,  James  ii.,  William 
III. 

1701-1750 — Anne,    George    i., 
George   il 

1751-1800— George  ii.,  George 
hi. 


1801-1850 — George  hi.,  George 
IV.,  William  iv.,  Victoria. 

1851-1900 — Victoria. 


Caedmon  fl.  670,  Bede  673-735,  Al- 
fred 849-901,  GeofFrey  of  Mon- 
mouth, Wace  (1170),  Layamon  fl. 
1200,  Map  fl.  1200. 

Langland,  Barbour,  Chaucer,  Wyclif, 
all  belonging  to  the  second  half  of 
the  century. 

James  i. 


Malory,  Caxton. 


Skelton,  Dunbar,  Wyatt,  Surrey,  Tyn- 
dale,  Coverdale,  Udall. 

Sackville,  Sidney,  Spenser,  Raleigh, 
Shakespeare. 

Raleigh,  Shakespeare,  Jonson,  Bacon, 
Herbert,  Cowley,  Davenant,  Mil- 
ton, Lovelace,  Montrose. 

Cowley,  Davenant,  Milton,  Lovelace^ 
Marvel,  Herrick,  Dryden,  Bunyan. 


Swift,  Defoe,  Steele,  Addison,  Pope, 
Richardson,  Johnson. 

Richardson,  Johnson,  Goldsmith,  Mac- 
pherson  (Ossian),  Percy,  Boswell, 
Cowper,  Burns,  Coleridge,  Southey. 

Coleridge,  Southey,  W^ordsworth, 
Scott,  Byron,  Shelley,  Keats,  Car- 
lyle,  Tennyson,  Dickens,  Thackeray. 

Carlyle,  Tennyson,  Dickens,  Thacke- 
ray. 
680 


INDEX 


Abbotsford,  587,  592,  594. 

Absalom  and  Achitophel,  420,  424,  436. 

Addison,  J.,  465-479,  488,  495,  499. 

Adonais,  617,  671, 

Adventurer,  The,  510. 

JSneid,  The  (Dryden),  426. 

^neid.  The  (Surrey),  245. 

Alastor,  611. 

Alexander's  Feast,  431. 

Alfred,  87-90. 

All  for  Love,  430, 

All  the  Year  Round,  666. 

Ancient  Mariner,  The,  566-568,  575. 

Anglo-Saxon  poetry,  37-39. 

Anglo-Saxons,   55. 

Anne,  Queen,  437,  441,  455,  486. 

Antony  and  Cleopatra,  430. 

Arabian  Nights,   The,  563. 

Arden,  forest  of,  283. 

Areopagitica,  396. 

Armour,  Jean,  546,  548, 

Arnold,  M.,  574,  604. 

Arthur,  King,  27,  31,  32,  34-53,  400, 

Astrolabe,  A    Treatise  on  the,  130. 

Astrophel,  268. 

As  You  Like  It,  287. 

Aubrey,  J.,  283,  290,  346. 

Attld  Lang  Syne,  537, 

Austen,  Lady,  552. 

Avon,  river,  283. 

Bacon,  F.,  339-355,  384. 

Bacon's  Essays,  348. 

Ballads,  102-109. 

Balliol,  John,   157, 

Barbour,  John,  153-164. 

Battle  of  Blenheim,   The,  577. 

Battle  of  the  Books,  The,  452, 

Beaufort,  Lady  J.,  171. 

Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  278,  309,  311. 

Bede,  79-86. 

Bentley,  R.,  500. 

Beowulf,  56-65,  71. 

Bible,  The,  112-127,  236,  408. 


Black  death,  the,  110,  123. 

Blank  verse,  245. 

Boadicea,  555, 

Boccaccio,  142,  427,  627, 

Boleyn,  Anne,  239. 

Book  of  Leinster,  6,  11. 

Book  of  Philip  Sparrow,  210. 

Book  of  the  Dun  Cow,  6. 

Books  to  read,  15,  26,  33,  48,  53,  65,  86, 
101,  109,  121,  146,  152,  163,  175,  181, 
206,  236,  242,  269,  304,  338,  355,  447, 
464,  479,  489,  502,  521,  550,  574,  580, 
595,  619,  644,  655,  667,  679. 

Boswell,  J.,  505,  519,  520, 

Brimley,  G.,  651. 

Britons,  the,  30. 

Brittany,  30. 

Brooks,  Shirley,  654. 

Bruce,  Robert  the,  157-163. 

Bruce,  The,  153-164. 

Brut,  36,  93,  286. 

Brut,  Li  Romans  de,  34. 

Brutus,  32. 

Buccleuch,  Duchess  of,  585,  586. 

Bunyan,  J.,  407-419. 

Burleigh,  Lord,  341. 

Burns,  R.,  537,  538-550,  581,  583, 

Burns,  W.,  539,  544. 

Byrne,  "Paddy,"  523,  524. 

Byron,  Lady,  602. 

Byron,  Lord,  596-606,  618. 

Cadenus  and  Vanessa,  457. 

Cadiz,  333, 

Caedmon,  68-78,  79,  122,  400. 

Campaign,  The,  467. 

Canterbury  Tales,  Tin,  132-146, 189,427. 

"Captain  Bobadill,"  306. 

Carlyle,  J.,  633. 

Carlyle,  Mrs.,  636,  644. 

Carlyle,    T.,    507,    515,    521,    549,    576, 

585,  633-644. 
Castaway,  The,  556. 
Cato,  477. 


681 


682 


ENGLISH  LITERATURE 


Cattle  Raid  of  Cooley,  5-10. 

Caxton,  W.,  43,  47,  183-190. 

Celts,  Celtic,  5,  15,  55,  56. 

Chamberlain,  J.,  343. 

Chapman,  G.,  311,  623. 

Chapman's    Homer,    On    first    looking 

into,   623. 
Charles  i.,  312,  356,  358. 
Charles  ii.,  378. 
Chaucer,  G.,  128-146,  171,  189,  200,  427, 

429,  430,  432,  476. 
Chaucer,  L.,  130. 
Chesterfield,  Lord,  514,  515. 
Childe    Harold's    Pilgrimage,    599-602, 

605. 
Christabel,  575,  586. 
Christian  Hero,  481. 
Chronicles,  88,  274. 
Church  Porch,  The,  367. 
Civil  War,  the,  377. 
Clarke,  C,  622,  623. 
Cloud,  The,  614. 
Coffee-houses,  469. 
Coifi,  82,  83. 
Coleridge,  H.  N.,  577. 
Coleridge,  S.  T.,  563,  564-565,  566,  570, 

575-577,  581. 
Colet,  J.,  219. 
Colin  Clout,  208,  210. 
Colin  Clout's  come  Home  again,  252,  324. 
Comedy,  273. 
Comus,  389-391. 
Constantine,  216. 

Constantinople,  215,  216,  217,  218. 
Cottef^s  Saturday  Night,  The,  541. 
Cotton,  Sir  R.  B.,  56,  57,  332,  335. 
Country  Parson,  The,  367. 
Coverdale,  M.,  336. 
Cowley,  A.,  354. 
Cowper,  W.,  551-556. 
Craigenputtock,  636,  638. 
Cromivell,  Life  and  Letters  of,  643. 
Cromwell,  O.,  379;   Marvell's   Horatian 

Ode  on,  379,  403;  Dryden's  Ode  on, 

421;  643. 
Cromwell,  R.,  403. 
Curse  of  Kehama,  The,  577. 
"Custance,  C,"   274. 
Cymrv,  5,  27-33. 
Cynthia,  323. 

Daffodils,   To,  373. 
Danvers,  Jane,  363. 
Davenant,  W.,  361,  588. 
David  Copperfield,  658. 
Dawra,  8. 
Dean  Prior,  371,  378. 


Decameron,  The,  142. 

Defoe,  D.,  435-447. 

Deirdre  and  the  Sons  of  Usnach,  11-15. 

Deserted  Village,  The,  523,  533. 

Dethe  of  Blaunche  the  Duchess,  132. 

Dickens,  C,  656-667. 

Dickens,  J.,  656,  657,  658. 

Dictes  and  Sayings  of  the  Philosophers, 

The,  185. 
Dictionary    (Johnson's),  509,  514. 
Dingley,  Mrs.,  455. 
Discovery  of  Guiana,  332. 
Dissenters,  the,  438. 
Doctor,   The,  579. 
Dorset,  T.  Sackville,  Earl  of,  274. 
Douglas,  C,  173. 
Dove  Cottage,  569,  570. 
Dress,  277. 

Drummond,  W.,  311,  312. 
Drury,  Dr.,  598. 
Dryburgh  Abbey,  594. 
Dryden,    J.,    405,    420-433;     poem    on 

Cromwell,   421;    on   the    Restoration, 

422,  435,  451,  492. 
Dujon,  F.,  77. 
Dunbar,  W.,  176-181. 
Dunciad,  The,  500,  501. 

Eadmer,  92. 

Early  Spring,  Lines  written  in,  568. 

Ecclesiastical  History,  Bede's,  81,  90. 

Edinburgh,  442-444. 

Edinburgh  Bevieic,  598. 

Edward  i.,  156,  161. 

Edward  ii.,  161. 

Edward  in.,  110,  123,  125,  130. 

Edwin  and  Ethelberga,  81. 

Eldorado,  332,  336,  337. 

Elizabeth,    Queen,    253,    281,    309,    320, 

321,  323,  342,  344. 
Endymion,  625. 
England,  54,  55. 
English,  31,  54. 
English  Bards  and  Scotch  Reviewers, 

599. 
Erasmus,  D.,  221. 
Esmond,  66'2. 
Essay  in  Criticism,  501. 
Essay  on  Man,  501. 
Essex,  Earl  of,  333,  341,  342,  343. 
Everyman,  204. 

Every  Man  in  his  Humour,  306-309,  310. 
Examiner,  The,  Hunt's,  624. 
Excursion,  The,  571,  572. 

Fables  (Dryden's),  428,  432,  433. 
Faery    Queen,    The,   252,   253,   254-269, 
323,  414,  622. 


INDEX 


683 


Fergus,  7, 

"Ferrex  and  Porrex,  275. 

Fingal,  21-26. 

Fiorentino,  G.,  293. 

Fitz-Gerald,  Lady  E.,  244. 

Ford,  J.,  278. 

France,  French,  34. 

Frederick  the  Great,  History  of,  643. 

French   Revolution,   the,   562,   56^,   617, 

627. 
French  Revolution,  Carlyle's,  638. 
Froude,  J.  A.,  638,  643. 
Fuller,  T.,  309,  320,  321,  338. 

Gad's  Hill,  657,  667. 

Gaels  and  Gaelic,  5,  16. 

Garrick,  D.,  506,  509. 

General  Don  Alfonso  Baqan,  The,  328. 

Genesis,  The,  73. 

Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  31-33,   34,  92, 

274,  286. 
George  i.,  487. 
George  m.,  518. 
GiflFord,  J.,  411. 
Gilbert,  Sir  H.,  322. 
Gissing,  G.,  659. 
Goethe,  J.  W.,  635. 
Goldsmith,  O.,  521,  536. 
Good  Natured  Man,  The,  532. 
Gorboduc,  274,  275. 
Gower,  J.,  171. 
Grace  Abounding,  410,  416. 
Grahame,  R.,  174. 
Great  Book  Written  on  Skins,  6. 
Grecian  Urn,  Ode  on  a,  627. 
Greece,  604. 
Greene,  R.,  278,  289. 
Grendel,  60. 

Grenville,  Sir  R.,  324-330. 
Greta  Hall,  570,  577. 
Groatsworth  of  Wit,  etc.,  289. 
Grocyn,  W.,  219. 
Guiana,  332,  333. 
Guilds,  194. 
Gulliver's  Travels,  448,  458-463,  562. 

Hakluyt's  Voyages,  322,  330. 

Hallam,  A.  H.,  669,  670. 

Harrison,   F.,   664. 

Hathaway,   Anne,  285. 

Havelok  the  Dane,  94,  96-101,  103,  113. 

Hazlitt,  W.,  495. 

Henry,  Prince,  334,  335. 

Henry  iv.,  144,  164. 

Henry  viii.,  232,  233,  236,  243. 

Herbert,  G.,  362-369,  371. 

Ueroes  and  Hero  Worship,  639. 


Heroic  Couplet,  the,  421,  492. 

Herrick,  R.,  370-378. 

Hesperides,  The,  375-376. 

Heywood,  T.,  278. 

High  Churchmen,  438. 

Hind  and  the  Panther,  The,  425. 

Historical  Novel,  the,  588. 

History  of  the   World,  334. 

Hogg,  James,  573,  592. 

Hogg,  T.  J.,  610. 

Hollinshed,  R.,  287. 

Holy  Grail,  the,  35. 

Holy  War,  The,  416. 

Homer,  623. 

Homer  (Chapman's),  623. 

Homer  (Cowper's),  555. 

Homer  (Pope's),  499. 

Horatian   Ode   on  Cromwell,  etc.,   379. 

Horton,  386-391. 

Houghton,  Lord,  654. 

Hours  of  Idleness,  598. 

Household  Words,  666. 

Howard,  Lord  T.,  324. 

Howard,  Lady  E.,  422. 

Hrothgar,  60-63. 

Hutchinson,  Mary,  570. 

Hyperion,  630. 

Idler,    The,   510. 

Idylls  of  the  King,  49-53,  675,  676. 

Iliad,  The,  491. 

II  Penseroso,  387,  388. 

Inchcape  Rock,  The,  577. 

In  Memoriam,  671,  672-675. 

Interludes,  the,  273. 

Intimations    of   Immortality,   etc.,   572. 

"Invincible  Armada,"  324. 

Ireland,  5,  54,  458. 

Irene,  508,  509. 

Irvine,  543. 

Isabella,  or  the  Pot  of  Basil,  627. 

James  i.    (of   England),  309,  313,  333, 

336,  337,  356. 
James  i.  (of  Scotland),  164-175. 
James  ir.  424,  425. 

John  of  Gaunt,  123,  124,  125,  126,  133. 
John  Gilpin,  552,  556. 
Johnson,  Esther  (Stella),  451,  454,  463. 
Johnson,  S.,  19,  445,  503-521,  527. 
Johnston,  Sir  P.,  442. 
Jones,  Inigo,  310. 
Jonson,  B.,  278,  290,  305-313,  314,  318; 

his  epitaph,  313;  384,  424,  671. 
Journal  to  Stella,  454-456,  468. 
Junian  MS.,  76,  400. 


684 


ENGLISH  LITERATURE 


Keats,  J.,  617,  618,  620-633. 
Keats,  T,,  635,  626. 
King  Lear,  286. 
King's  Quair,  The,  166-171. 
Kyd,  T.,  278. 

Lady  of  the  Lake,  The,  586. 

Lake  Poets,  the,  570. 

L' Allegro,  387. 

Lamb,  C,  564. 

Lang,  A.,  516. 

Langland,  W.,  112-121,  127. 

Laud,  Archbishop,  364. 

Layamon,  36-41,  53,  93,  286. 

Lay  of  the  Last  Minstrel,  The,  585,  586, 

595. 
Leahhar  Na  h-Uidhre,  6. 
Leicester,  Earl  of,  250,  281. 
Life  and  Death  of  Mr.  Badman,  416. 
Linacre,  T.,  219. 
Lissoy,  523,  533. 
Lilies  of  the  Poets,  520. 
Lochlea,  541. 
Lockhart,  J.  H.,  593. 
Lollards,  126,  127. 
London,  29. 
Love,  616. 

Lovelace,  R.,  357,  358. 
Love's  Labour's  Lost,  286. 
Ludd,  King,  29. 
Lycidas.  387,  388,  617,  671. 
Lyly,  J.,  278. 
Lyric  Poetry,  357. 
Lyrical  Ballads,  566. 

Mabinogion,  The,  28,  29,  30,  49,  54. 
Macaulay,  Lord,  413,  470,  479,  500,  580, 

604. 
Macbeth,  287. 
Macpherson,  J.,  16-20,  516. 
Magnificence   (Morality),  207. 
Malory,  Sir  T.,  42-48. 
Mandeville,  Sir  John,  147-152,  470. 
Map,  Walter,  34,  35. 
Margaret,  Duchess  of  Burgundy,  184. 
Markham,  G.,  329. 
Marlowe,  C,  278. 
Marmion,  423,  582,  585,  586. 
Marvell,  A.,  378-382,  398. 
Masqtie   of  Blackness,  310. 
Masques,  310. 
Massinger,  P.,  278. 
Matthew  of  Westminster,  275. 
Maud,  675. 
Mazzini,  603. 

Mean  and  Sure  Estate,  Of  the,  240. 
Meav,  Queen  of  Connaught,  7-9. 


Merchant  of  Venice,  The,  293-304. 

Merlin,   28,  43. 

Mermaid  Tavern,  309,  332. 

Metrical  Romances,  93,  584,  595. 

Midsummer  Night's  Dream,  282,  283, 
311. 

Mill,  J.  S.,  641. 

Millais,  Sir  J.,  319. 

Milton,  J.,  383-400;  teacher,  391,  392; 
marries,  392;  becomes  Latin  Secre- 
tary, 397;  becomes  blind,  397;  sonnet 
on,  398;   dies,  406;   420,  426,  435. 

Milton,  Mary,  392,  393. 

Minstrels,  2,  92. 

"Miracle  Plays,"  192-203,  271,  272, 
276. 

Modred,  39. 

Monks,  Monasteries,  3,  104,  122. 

Monmouth,  Duke  of,  424,  436. 

Montrose,  Marquis  of,  359. 

Moore,  T.,  600,  618. 

Moralities,  the,  204,  271,  273. 

More,  Margaret,  222,  234. 

More,  Sir  T.,  220-236. 

Morte  D' Arthur,  42-48,  187. 

Mossgiel,  544<. 

"Mysteries."     See  Miracle  Plays. 

Napoleost,  646. 

Napoleon,  Life  of,  593. 

National  Standard.  The,  647. 

Nelson,  Life  of   (Southey's),  578. 

Nether  Stowey,  564,  565. 

Newark  Castle,  585. 

New  Atlantis.  348-355. 

Newfoundland,  322. 

"New  Learning,"  the,  218,  275. 

New   Place,   291. 

Newspapers,  434. 

Newstead  Abbey,  597. 

Newton,  J.,  552. 

Nightingale,  Ode  to  a,  628. 

Noble  Numbers,  375. 

Normandy,  Normans,  30,  31,  91,  93. 

Northumbria,  87. 

North-West  Passage,  321. 

Norton,  T.,  274. 

Novel,  the,  522. 

Novum  Organum,  344. 

O'Caholan,  T.,  523. 

Odyssey   (Pope's),  499,  500. 

Oliphant,  Mount,  539. 

Olney,  551. 

On   his    being   arrived    to    the   Age    of 

Ttventy-three  (Milton's  sonnet),  386, 
Orderic  Vitalis,  92. 


INDEX 


685 


Orrery,  Lord,  457. 
Ossian,  16. 

Ossian,  The  Poems  of,  18. 
Oxford,    University   of,    122,    125,    154, 
421. 

Pageants,  282. 

Paper,  6. 

Paradise   Lost,  394,  399,  400,  401,  402, 

405,  426. 
Paradise   Regained,  405. 
Passing  of  Arthur,  The,  49 
Patrons,  507. 
Paulinus,  81,  83. 
Peel,  G.,  278. 
Pendragon,  Uther,  43, 
Percy,  Lord,  124. 
Percy,  T.,  581. 
Percy's  ReUqnes,  581,  583. 
Petrarch,  142,  239. 
Pickwick  Papers,  659-664. 
Pilgrim,  the,  326. 

Pilgrim's  Progress,  The,  413-419,  445. 
Pillory,  the,  439 
Pillory,  Hymn  to  the,  439. 
Plain  Man's  Pathicay   to  Heaven,  410. 
Poems  by   Tivo  Brothers,  668. 
"Poor  Priests,"  126. 
Pope,  A.,  491-502,  596. 
Practice  of  Piety,  The,  410. 
Prelude,    The,   559,   560,   561,   562,   570, 

571,  572. 
Presbyterians,  the,  411. 
Prestonpans,  battle  of,  589. 
Princess,  The,  675,  676. 
Pulley,  The,  368. 
Punch,  648. 
Puritans,  the,  856,  389,  423. 

Quixote,  Don,  445,  562. 

Raleigh,  Professor,  290. 
Raleigh,  W.,  the  younger,  337. 
Raleigh,    Sir    W.,    251,    309,    311,    319- 

338,  384. 
Ralph  Roister  Doister,  273. 
Rambler,  The,  510. 

Rape   of   the   Lock,   The,  494-499,   501. 
Rasselas,  517. 
Recluse,  The,  572. 
Recuyell  of  the  Histories  of  Troy,  184, 

186. 
Red  Book  of  Hergest,  28. 
Religio  Laid,  425. 
Renaissance,  the,  215-219. 
Restoration,  the,  423,  430. 
Revenge,  The,  324-330. 


Review,  The,  440,  444,  469. 
Revolution,  the,  425. 
Reynolds,  Sir.  J.,  536. 
Rhyme  Royal,  266. 
Richard  ii.,  125,  134. 
Richardson,  S.,  522. 
Rivers,   Earl,   185. 
Robin  Hood,  104-106,  314. 
Robinson  Crusoe,  435,  445-447. 
Roland,  93. 

Romances  of  Brutus,  34. 
Romans,  the,  30,  54,  215. 
"Rosalind"  (Spenser's),  249. 
Rose  and  the  Ring,  The,  652. 
Roundabout  Papers,  646. 
Royal  George,  Loss  of  the,  556. 
Roval  Society,  the,  354. 
Russell,   Sir  J.,  237. 
Rydal   Mount,  571, 

Sad  Shepherd,  The,  314-318. 

Saintsbury,  G.  E.  B.,  424,  575. 

Samson  Agonistes,  405,  406. 

San  Philip,  the,  325. 

Sartor  Resartus,  634,  636,  637. 

Satire,  240,  381,  424,  453. 

Savage,  Richard,  508. 

Saxon  Chronicle,  89. 

Saxons,  the,  30. 

Scotland,  54. 

Scott,  Ladv,  584. 

Scott,  Sir'W,,  103,  420,  421,  423,  581- 

595,  596. 
Selkirk,  A.,  446. 
Shaftesbury,  Lord,  424. 
Shakespeare,  John  and  Mary,  279,  280, 

281,  282,  291. 
Shakespeare,  Judith  and  Susanna,  285. 
Shakespeare,     W.,     278,     279-292;     his 

plays,  289,  290-99,  304;  as  an  actor, 

289;  308,  309,  383,  384. 
Shelley,  P.  B.,  607,  619. 
Shepherd's  Calendar,  The,  250,  251. 
She  Stoops  to  Conquer,  535. 
Shortest  Way  with  the  Dissenters,  The, 

438. 
Sidney,  Sir  P.,  250,  268,  275,  276. 
Sir  Patrick  Spens,  106. 
Skelton,  J.,  207-214. 
Sketches  by  Boz,  659, 
Skylark,  To  the,  613 
Smith,  E.,  493. 
Smollett,  T.,  516. 
Smyth,  Major,  645. 
Snob  Papers,  649. 
Snobs,  Book  of,  650 
Sonnet,  the,  238. 


686 


ENGLISH  LITERATURE 


Southey,    R.,    565,    5T0,    573,    577-580, 

581. 
Spain,  324. 
Speake  Parrot,  209. 

Spectator,   The,  473-477,  486,  510,  540. 
Spectator,  The   (modern),  477. 
Spenser,    E.,    247-269,    290,    323,    492, 

623. 
Spenserian  Stanza,  266. 
St.  Augustine,  67. 
St.  Ciaran,  6. 
St.  Columba,  66,  67. 
State  of  Innocence,  The,  425. 
Steele,  Sir  R.,  465,  468,  478,  480-489. 
"Stella."     See  Johnson,  E. 
Stratford-on-Avon,  279-292. 
Surrey,  Earl  of,  243-246.  426, 
Susquelianna,  the,  565. 
Swift,  G.,  450. 
Swift,  J.,  445,  448-464,  467. 
Swinburne,  A.  C,  314,  604,  629. 
"Tabard  Inn,"  the,   136-138. 
Table  Talk   ^Coleridge's),  577. 
Tain  Bo  Chuailgne,  6,  11,  14. 
Tale  of  a  Tub,  A,  452,  453,  562. 
Tales  from  Shakespeare,  564. 
Tales  of  a  Grandfather,  593. 
Taliesin,  28. 
Task,  The,  553,  555, 
Tate,  N.,  467. 
Tatler,  The,  468,  469,  470-473,  480,  483- 

486. 
Tempest,  The,  430. 
Temple,  Sir  W.,  451,  452,  453. 
Temple,  The,  367. 

Tennyson,   A.,  49,   330,   642,   668-679. 
Thackeray,  W.  M.,  465,  483,  643,  645- 

655. 
Thalaha,  577. 

Theater,  the,   191-197,   270,  277,   423. 
Theatre,  The,  481. 
Thistle  and  the  Rose,  The,  176-181. 
Thompson,  F.,  611. 

Three  Sorrows  of  Story-Telling,  11,  14, 
Throgmorton,  E.,  331. 
Tickell,  T.,  479, 
Tintern  Abbey,  569. 
"Townley  plays,"   198-203, 
Tragedy,  273,  274. 

Tragedy  of  the  Children  of  Lir,  11. 
Tragedy  of  the  Children  of   Ttiireann, 

11. 
Traveller,  The,  526,  532, 


True-born  Englishman,   The,  437 

Twelfth  Night,  284. 

Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona,  283,  292. 

Tvler,  Wat,  127. 

Tyndale,  W.,  236. 

Udall,  Nicholas,  273. 

Union  of  Great  Britain,  History  of  the, 

442-444. 
Union,  the,  441-444. 
Universities,  122. 
Unwin,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  551. 
Utopia,  223-232,  349, 

Vanity  Fair,  651. 
Vespucci,  A.,  223. 
Vicar    of    Wakefield,    The,    523,    528- 

532. 
Virginia,  322. 
Vision  of  Piers  the  Ploughman,  110-121. 

Wace,  R.,  34,  36,  286. 

Walton,  I.,  365,  366. 

Warwick,  Lady,  478. 

Waterloo,  600-601. 

Waverley,  587-588. 

We  are  Seven,  568. 

Webster,  J.,  278. 

Wedgwood,  Messrs.,  569. 

Weekly  Neios,  The,  435. 

Wellington,  Ode  on  the  Death  of,  675. 

Welsh,  27,  32. 

Wessex,  88. 

Westbrook,  Harriet,  610. 

West  Wind,  Ode  to  the,  615. 

Whitby,  68,  78. 

White  Doe  of  Rylstone,  571. 

Why  come  ye  not  to  Court,  209. 

Wilhelm  Meister,  635. 

William  i.  (the  Conqueror),  30,  90. 

William  iii.,  437,  441. 

William  of  Malmesbury,  92. 

Winter's  Tale,  283,  284. 

Wolsey,  Cardinal,  208,  209,  223. 

Wordsworth,  Dorothy,  560,  563. 

Wordsworth,  W.,  406,  557-570,  581,  604. 

Worthies  of  England,  309,  320. 

Wyatt,  Sir  T.,  237-242. 

Wycherley,  W.,  492,  493. 

Wyclif,  J.,  122-127. 

Young,  Sir  J.,  313. 


