UNIVERSITY 
OF  FLORIDA 
LIBRARIES 


COLLEGE  LIBRARY 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2012  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  Members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/englishpastoralpOOemps 


This  is  an  authorized  facsimile  of  the  original  book,  and 
was  produced  in  1972  by  microfilm-xerography  by  University 
Microfilms,  A  Xerox  Company,  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan,  U.S.A. 


y 


ENGLISH 

■ 

PASTORAL 


POETRY 


. 


jtZT^g^^ 


William  Smpson 


- 


Ne u>  Yor\  •  W  •  W  •  NORTON  &  CO  •  INC  •  Publishers 


<5 


a     — 


-Irt 


'W 


Co 


YA 


-C3 


-C^ 


w 

(/> 

IU 

u 

I) 

tr 
0 

> 

z 

Id 

0 

(A 

u 

z 

Ll 

0 

0 

< 

>• 

0 

C 

J 

< 

0. 

ID 

j 

0 
0 

h 

0 

UJ 

I 

I 

a. 

h 

QOr 


*©  r 


©  = 


r^  = 


w  = 


rf*  = 


ENGLISH  PASTORAL  POETRY 


FIRST  PUBLISHED  1938 
ALL  RIGHTS  RESERVED 


TfiV* 


Published  in  England  under  the  title 
SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 


. 


'ho 


PRINTED  IN  GREAT  BRITAIN 


1 

A 


•\- 


CONTENTS 

I      PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE  3 

n     DOUBLE  PLOTS  27 

Heroic  and  Pastoral  in  the  Main  Plot  and  Sub-Plot 

III    THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER  89 

Twist  of  Heroic-Pastoral  Ideas  in  Shakespeare  into 
an  Ironical  Acceptance  of  Aristocracy 


\ 


IV    MARVELL'S  GARDEN  119 

The   Ideal  Simplicity  approached   by   Resolving 
Contradictions 

V     MILTON  AND  BENTLEY  149 

The  Pastoral  of  the  Innocence  of  Man  and  Nature 

\ 

[    VI     THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA  195 

Mock-Pastoral  as  the  Cult  of  Independence 

Vn     ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND  253 

The  Child  as  Swain 

INDEX  ,  295 


t 


H 


■  A 


h 


Proletarian  Literature 


^ 


IT  is  hard  for  an  Englishman  to  talk  definitely  about 
proletarian  art,  because  in  England  it  has  never  been 
a  genre  with  setded  principles,  and  such  as  there  is  of  it, 
that  I  have  seen,  is  bad.  But  it  is  important  to  try  and 
decide  what  the  term  ought  to  mean;  my  suspicion, 
as  I  shall  try  to  make  clear,  is  that  it  is  liable  to  a  false 
limitation. 

As  for  propaganda,  some  very  good  work  has  been 
that;  most  authors  want  their  point  of  view  to  be 
convincing.  Pope  said  diat  even  the  Aeneid  was  a 
'political  puff*;  its  dreamy,  impersonal,  universal 
melancholy  was  a  calculated  support  for  Augustus. 
And  on  the  other  hand  proletarian  literature  need  not 
be  propaganda ;  Carl  and  Anna  is  simply  a  very  good 
love-story;  it  counts  as  proletarian  because  no  other 
social  world  (ideology)  is  brought  in  but  diat  of  the 
characters  who  are  factory  workers.  Of  course  to  decide 
on  an  author's  purpose,  conscious  or  unconscious,  is 
very  difficult.  Good  writing  is  not  done  unless  there 
are  serious  forces  at  work ;  and  it  is  not  permanent  unless 
it  works  for  readers  with  opinions  different  from  the 
author's.  On  the  other  hand  the  reason  an  English 
audience  can  enjoy  Russian  propagandist  films  is  that 
the  propaganda  is  too  remote  to  be  annoying :  a  Tory 
audience  subjected  to  Tory  propaganda  of  the  same 
intensity  would  be  extremely  bored.  Anyway  it  is 
agreed  that  there  is  some  good  work  which  a  Marxist 
would  call  proletarian;  the  more  pressing  questions 
for    him    are    whether    some    good   work    may    be 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

I 

bourgeois  and  whether  some  may  not  be  class-conscious 

at  all. 

Gray's  Elegy  is  an  odd  case  of  poetry  with  latent 

political  ideas : 

Full  many  a  gem  of  purest  ray  serene 
The  dark,  unfathomed  caves  of  ocean  bear ; 
Full  many  a  flower  is  born  to  blush  unseen 
And  waste  its  sweetness  on  the  desert  air. 

What  this  means,  as  the  context  makes  clear,  is  that 
eighteenth-century  England  had  no  scholarslup  system 
or  carriere  ouverte  aux  talents.  This  is  stated  as  pathetic, 
but  the  reader  is  put  into  a  mood  in  which  one  would 
not  try  to  alter  it.  (It  is  true  that  Gray's  society,  unlike 
a  possible  machine  society,  was  necessarily  based  on 
manual  labour,  but  it  might  have  used  a  man  of  special 
ability  wherever  he  was  born.)  By  comparing  the 
social  arrangement  to  Nature  he  makes  it  seem  inevitable, 
which  it  was  not,  and  gives  it  a  dignity  which  was 
undeserved.  Furthermore,  a  gem  does  not  mind  being 
m  a  cave  and  a  flower  prefers  not  to  be  picked ;  we  feel 
that  the  man  is  like  the  flower,  as  short-lived,  natural, 
and  valuable,  and  this  tricks  us  into  feeling  that  he  is 
better  off  without  opportunities.  The  sexual  suggestion 
of  blush  brings  in  the  Christian  idea  that  virginity  is 
good  in  itself,  and  so  that  any  renunciation  is  good ;  this 
may  trick  us  into  feeling  it  is  lucky  for  the  poor  man 
that  society  keeps  him  unspotted  from  the  World.  The 
tone  of  melancholy  claims  that  the  poet  understands  the 
considerations  opposed  to  aristocracy,  though  he  judges 
against  them  ;  the  truism  of  the  reflections  in  the  church- 
yard, the  universality  and  impersonality  this  gives  to  the 
style,  claim  as  if  by  comparison  that  we  ought  to  accept 
the  injustice  of  society  as  we  do  the  inevitability  of  death. 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

Many  people,  without  being  communists,  have  been 
irritated  by  the  complacence  in  the  massive  calm  of 
the  poem,  and  this  seems  partly  because  they  feel  there 
is  a  cheat  in  the  implied  politics ;  the  *  bourgeois ' 
themselves  do  not  like  literature  to  have  too  much 
'  bourgeois  ideology.' 

And  yet  what  is  said  is  one  of  the  permanent  truths ; 
it  is  only  in  degree  that  any  improvement  of  society 
could  prevent  wastage  of  human  powers ;  the  waste 
even  in  a  fortunate  life,  the  isolation  even  of  a  life  rich 
in  intimacy,  cannot  but  be  felt  deeply,  and  is  the  central 
feeling  of  tragedy.  And  anything  of  value  must  accept 
this  because  it  must  not  prostitute  itself;  its  strength 
is  to  be  prepared  to  waste  itself,  if  it  does  not  get  its 
opportumty.  A  statement  of  this  is  certainly  non- 
political  because  it  is  true  in  any  society,  and  yet  nearly 
all  the  great  poetic  statements  of  it  are  in  a  way  *  bour- 
geois/ like  this  one;  they  suggest  to  many  readers, 
though  they  do  not  say,  that  for  the  poor  man  things 
cannot  be  improved  even  in  degree.  Tins  at  least 
shows  that  the  distinction  the  communists  try  to  draw 
is  a  puzzling  one;  two  people  may  get  very  different 
experiences  from  the  same  work  of  art  without  either 
being  definitely  wrong.  One  is  told  that  the  Russians 
now  disapprove  of  tragedy,  and  that  there  was  a  per- 
formance of  Hamlet  in  the  Turk-Sib  region  which  the 
audience  decided  spontaneously  was  a  farce.  They  may 
well  hold  out  against  the  melancholy  of  old  Russia,  and 
for  them  there  may  be  dangerous  implications  in  any 
tragedy,  which  other  people  do  not  see.  I  am  sure  at 
any  rate  that  one  could  not  estimate  the  amount  of 
bourgeois  ideology  *  really  in  '  the  verse  from  Gray. 
The   same   difficulty   arises   in   the   other   direction. 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Proletarian  literature  usually  has  a  suggestion  of  pastoral, 
a  puzzling  form  which  looks  proletarian  but  isn't. 
I  must  worry  the  meaning  of  the  term  for  a  moment. 
One  might  define  proletarian  art  as  the  propaganda  of 
a  factory-working  class  which  feels  its  interests  opposed 
to  the  factory  owners' ;  this  narrow  sense  is  perhaps 
what  is  usually  meant  but  not  very  interesting.  You 
couldn't  have  proletarian  literature  in  this  sense  in  a 
successful  socialist  state.  The  wider  sense  of  the  term 
includes  such  folk-literature  as  is  by  the  people,  for  the 
people,  and  about  the  people.  But  most  fairy  stories 
and  ballads,  though  *  by '  and  *  for,'  are  not  *  about '  ; 
whereas  pastoral  though  *  about '  is  not  *  by  '  or  for.' 
The  Border  ballads  assume  a  society  of  fighting  clans 
who  are  protected  by  their  leaders  since  leaders  can 
afford  expensive  weapons ;  the  aristocrat  has  an  obvious 
function  for  the  people,  and  they  are  pleased  to  describe 
his  grandeur  and  fine  clothes.  (Tins  pleasure  in  him  as 
an  object  of  fantasy  is  the  normal  thing,  but  usually 
there  arc  forces  the  other  way.)  They  were  class- 
conscious  all  right,  but  not  conscious  of  class  war.  Pas- 
toral is  a  queerer  business,  but  I  think  permanent  and 
not  dependent  on  a  system  of  class  exploitation.  Any 
socialist  state  with  an  intelligentsia  at  the  capital  that 
felt  itself  more  cultivated  dian  the  farmers  (which  it 
would  do;  the  arts  are  produced  by  overcrowding) 
could  produce  it ;  it  is  common  in  present-day  Russian 
films,  and  a  great  part  of  their  beauty  (for  instance  the 
one  called  The  General  Line  when  it  came  to  England). 
My  reason  for  dragging  this  old-fashioned  form  into 
the  discussion  is  that  I  think  good  proletarian  art  is 
usually  Covert  Pastoral. 
Before  theorising  about  this  I  had  best  speak  of  some 

6 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

recent  English  artists.  A  book  like  Lionel  Britton's 
Hunger  and  Love,  one  of  the  few  ostensibly  proletarian 
works  of  any  energy  that  England  has  to  show  (I  dis- 
liked it  too  much  to  finish  it),  is  not  at  all  pastoral ;  it  is 
a  passionate  and  feverish  account  of  a  man  trying  to 
break  his  way  out  of  the  proletariat  into  the  intelligentsia, 
or  rather  the  lower  middle  class  into  the  upper.  As  such 
it  may  be  good  literature  by  sheer  force,  and  useful 
propaganda  if  it  is  not  out  of  date  by  the  time  it  is 
written,  but  what  the  author  wanted  was  the  oppor- 
tunity not  to  be  proletarian ;  this  is  fine  enough,  but  it 
doesn't  make  proletarian  literature.  On  the  other  hand 
nobody  would  take  the  pastoral  of  T.  F.  Powys  for 
proletarian,  though  it  really  is  about  workers;  his 
object  in  writing  about  country  people  is  to  get  a  simple 
enough  material  for  his  purpose,  which  one  might  sum 
up  as  a  play  with  Christian  imagery  backed  only  by< 
a  Buddhist  union  of  God  and  death.  No  doubt  he 
would  say  that  country  people  really  feel  this,  a:  J  are 
wiser  about  it  than  the  cultivated,  and  that  he  is  their 
spokesman,  but  the  characters  are  firmly  artificial  and 
kept  at  a  great  distance  from  the  author.  W.  W. 
Jacobs  makes  the  argument  amusingly  clear;  it  is  not 
obvious  why  he  is  not  a  proletarian  author,  and  it  would 
annoy  a  communist  very  much  to  admit  that  he  was. 
Probably  no  one  would  deny  that  he  writes  a  version  of 
pastoral.  The  truth  that  supports  his  formula  is  that 
such  men  as  his  characters  keep  their  souls  alive  by 
ironical  humour,  a  subtle  mode  of  thought  which 
among  other  things  makes  you  willing  to  be  ruled  by 
your  betters ;  and  this  makes  the  bourgeois  feel  safe  in 
Wapping.  D.  H.  Lawrence's  refusal  to  write  proletarian 
literature  was  an  important  choice,  but  he  was  a  com- 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

plicated  person ;  to  see  the  general  reasons  for  it  one  had 
best  take  a  simpler  example.    George  Bissill  the  painter, 
who  worked  from  childhood  in  the  mines  and  did  some 
excellent  woodcuts  of  them,  refused  to  work  for  the 
New  Leader  (which  wanted  political  cartoons)  because 
he  had  rather  be  a  Pavement  Artist  than  a  Proletarian 
one.     As  a  person  he  is  obviously  not  *  bourgeois/ 
unless  being  determined  not  to  go  back  to  the  mines 
makes  you  that.     Such  a  man  dislikes  proletarian  art 
because  he  feels  that  it  is  like  pastoral,  and  that  that  is 
either  patronising  or  *  romantic/    The  Englishman  who 
seems  to  me  nearest  to  a  proletarian  artist  (of  those  I 
know  anything  about)  is  Grierson  the  film  producer; 
Drifters  gave  very  vividly  the  feeling  of  actually  living 
on  a  herring  trawler  and  (by  the  beauty  of  shapes  of 
water  and  net  and  fish,  and  subtleties  of  timing  and  so 
forth)  what  I  should  call  a  pastoral  feeling  about  the 
dignity  of  that  form  of  labour.    It  was  very  much  under 
Russian  influence.     But  herring  fishermen  are  unlikely 
ro  see  Drifters ;  for  all  its  government-commercial  claim 
to  solid  usefulness  it  is  a     high-brow '  picture   (that 
blasting  word  shows  an  involuntary  falsity  in  the  thing) ; 
Grierson's  influence,  strong  and  healthy  as  it  is,  has 
something  skimpy  about  it.    Of  course  there  are  plenty 
of  skilled  workers  in  England  who  are  proud  of  dieir 
skill,  and  you  can  find  men  of  middle  age  working 
on  farms  who  say  they  prefer  the  country  to  the  town, 
but  anything  like  what  I  am  trying  to  call  pastoral  is 
a  shock  to  the  Englishman  who  meets  it  on  the  Con- 
tinent.    My  only  personal  memory  of  this  sort  is  of 
watching  Spaniards  tread  out  sherry  grapes  and  squeeze 
out  the  skins  afterwards,  which  involves  dance  steps 
with  a  complicated  rhythm.    I  said  what  was  obvious, 

8 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

that  this  was  like  the  Russian  Ballet,  and  to  my  alarm 
the  remark  was  translated ;  any  English  worker  would 
take  it  as  an  insult,  probably  a  sexual  one.  They  were 
mildly  pleased  at  so  obvious  a  point  being  recognised, 
and  showed  us  the  other  dance  step  used  in  a  neighbour- 
ing district ;  both  ways  were  pleasant  in  themselves  and 
the  efficient  way  to  get  the  maximum  juice.  The  point 
is  not  at  all  that  they  were  living  simple  pretty  lives 
by  themselves;  quite  the  contrary;  some  quality  in 
their  own  very  harsh  lives  made  them  feel  at  home  with 
the  rest  of  civilisation,  not  suspicious  of  it.  This  may 
well  show  the  backwardness  of  the  country ;  for  that 
matter  there  were  the  same  feelings  m  Russia  for  the 
Soviets  to  use  if  they  could  get  at  them.  They  seem 
able  to  bring  off  something  like  a  pastoral  feeling  in 
Spain  and  Russia,  but  in  an  English  artist,  whatever  his 
personal  sincerity,  it  seems  dogged  by  humbug,  and 
has  done  now  for  a  long  time.  This  may  well  be  a 
grave  fault  in  the  English  social  system,  but  it  is  not 
one  an  English  artist  can  avoid  by  becoming  a  prole- 
tarian artist. 

It  would  be  as  well  then  to  consider  a  few  books 
written  outside  England,  which  are  not  definite  propa- 
ganda and  might  be  called  proletarian.  One  would 
expect  the  democratic  spirit  of  America  to  have  pro- 
duced proletarian  literature  some  time  ago,  but  so  far 
as  I  know  the  central  theme  is  always  a  conflict  in  the 
author's  mind  between  democracy  and  something  else. 
(That  there  must  be  some  kind  of  social  conflict  behind 
good  writing  is  perhaps  true,  but  this  is  no  argument 
against  communism  as  a  political  scheme ;  '  you  needn't 
make  trouble ' ;  there  will  be  conflicts  in  any  society. 
It  is  only  an  argument  against  the  communist  aesthetic.) 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

William  Faulkner  writes  direct  moralistic  tragedy  or 
melodrama,  and  tends  to  take  poor  or  low  characters 
merely  because  their  lives  more  than  most  arc  grindingly 
and  obviously  ruled  by  Fate ;  this  is  supposed  to  make  us 
feel  diat  the  same  is  true  of  every  one.  Most  writers  on 
Fate  play  tins  trick ;  it  uses  a  piece  of  pastoral  machinery 
which  is  generally  dignified  into  bad  metaphysics. 
Whereas  in  Andre*  Malraux's  La  Condition  Humaine 
(Storm  in  Shanghai)  the  heroes  are  communists  and  arc 
trying  to  get  something  done,  but  they  are  very  frankly 
out  of  touch  with  the  proletariat ;  it  is  from  this  that 
they  get  their  pathos  and  dignity  and  the  book  its 
freedom  from  propaganda.  The  purpose  behind  a 
Hemingway  character  is  to  carry  to  the  highest  degree 
the  methods  of  direct  reporting — his  stoical  simple  man 
is  the  type  who  gets  most  directly  the  sensations  any  one 
would  get  from  the  events.  This  is  a  very  general 
method  for  stories  of  action  and  has  a  touch  of  pastoral 
so  far  as  it  implies  *  the  fool  sees  true.*  It  is  irritating 
when  Hemingway  implies  that  his  well-to-do  heroes 
should  be  praised  for  being  boors,  but  even  that  is 
supported  by  a  backwoods  pioneer  feeling  which  seems 
as  much  aristocratic  as  proletarian.  Celine's  Voyage  an 
Bout  de  la  Nuit  is  a  more  interesting  case,  not  to  be  placed 
quickly  either  as  pastoral  or  proletarian;  it  is  partly  the 
4  underdog  '  theme  and  partly  social  criticism.  The  two 
main  characters  have  no  voice  or  trust  in  their  society 
and  no  sympathy  with  diose  who  have ;  it  is  this,  not 
cowardice  or  poverty  or  low  class,  winch  the  war  drives 
home  to  them,  and  from  then  on  they  have  a  straight- 
forward inferiority  complex;  the  theme  becomes  their 
struggle  with  it  as  private  individuals.  In  the  first  half 
of  the  book  the  hero  is  crazy,  and  seems  meant  to  be, 

10 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

from  the  idea  that  everybody  is  attacking  him,  and  in 
consequence  is  as  brutal  as  they  are.  He  becomes 
conscious  of  this  and  ashamed  ot  it  when  he  goes  off 
and  leaves  the  girl  in  Detroit,  so  sets  to  work  and  becomes 
a  doctor.  From  then  on  the  underdog  theme  is  carried 
by  his  double  Robinson,  whom  he  is  tryinpr  to  save, 
and  who  finally,  in  a  second  refusal  of  a  g  "s  love, 
accepts  death.  The  hero  respects  diis  but  is  far  from 
the  need  to  imitate  it ;  it  somehow  releases  him  and  ends 
the  book.  Life  may  be  black  and  mad  in  the  second 
half  but  Bardamu  is  not,  and  he  gets  to  the  real  end  of 
die  night  as  critic  and  spectator.  This  change  is  masked 
by  unity  of  style  and  by  a  humility  which  will  not 
allow  that  one  can  claim  to  be  sane  while  living  as 
part  of  such  a  world,  but  it  is  in  the  second  half  that  we 
get  Bardamu  speaking  as  Celine  in  criticism  of  it.  What 
is  attacked  may  perhaps  be  summed  up  as  the  death- 
wishes  generated  by  the  herds  of  a  machine  society, 
and  he  is  not  speaking  as  *  spokesman  of  the  prole- 
tariat '  or  with  any  sympathy  for  a  communist  one. 
It  may  be  true  that  under  a  communist  government 
many  fewer  people  would  have  this  sort  of  inferiority 
complex,  but  that  docs  not  make  a  new  sort  of  literature ; 
and  before  claiming  the  substance  of  the  book  as  prole- 
tarian literature  you  have  to  separate  off  die  author  (in 
the  phrase  that  Radck  used)  as  a  man  ripe  for  fascism. 
The  essential  trick  of  the  old  pastoral,  which  was  felt 
to  imply  a  beautiful  relation  between  rich  and  poor, 
was  to  make  simple  people  express  strong  feelings  (felt 
as  the  most  universal  subject,  something  fundamentally 
true  about  everybody)  in  learned  and  fashionable  lan- 
guage (so  that  you  wrote  about  die  best  subject  in  the 
best  way).    From  seeing  the  two  sorts  of  people  com- 

ii 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

bined  like  this  you  thought  better  of  both ;    the  best 
parts  of  both  were  used.    The  effect  was  in  some  degree 
to  combine  in  the  reader  or  author  the  merits  of  the 
two  sorts;    he  was  made  to  mirror  in  himself  more 
completely  the  effective  elements  of  the  society  he  lived 
in.    This  was  not  a  process  that  you  could  explain  in 
the  course  of  writing  pastoral ;  it  was  already  shown  by 
the  clash  between  style  and  theme,  and  to  make  the 
clash  work  in  the  right  way  (not  become  finny)  the 
writer  must  keep  up  a  firm  pretence  that  he  was  un- 
conscious of  it.     Indeed  the  usual  process  for  putting 
further   meanings   into   the   pastoral   situation   was   to 
insist  that  the  shepherds  were  rulers  of  sheep,  and  so 
compare  them  to  politicians  or  bishops  or  what  not; 
this  piled  the  heroic  convention  onto  the  pastoral  one, 
since  the  hero  was  another  symbol  of  his  whole  society. 
Such  a  pretence  no  doubt  makes  the  characters  unreal, 
but  not  the  feelings  expressed  or  even  the  situation 
described;    die  same  pretence  is  often  valuable  in  real 
life.    I  should  say  that  it  was  over  tins  fence  diat  pastoral 
came  down  in  England  after  the  Restoration.    The  arts, 
even  music,  came  to  depend  more  than  before  on  know- 
ing about  foreign  culture,  and  Puritanism,  suspicious 
of  the  arts,  was  only  not  strong  among  the  aristocracy. 
A  feeling  gradually  got  about  that  any  one  below  the 
upper  middles  was  making   himself  ridiculous,   being 
above  himself,  if  he  showed  any  signs  of  keeping  a 
sense  of  beauty  at  all,  and  this  feeling  was  common  to 
all  classes.    It  takes  a  general  belief  as  harsh  and  as  unreal 
as  this  to  make  the  polite  pretence  of  pastoral  seem 
necessarily  absurd.    Even  so  there  was  a  successful  school 
of  mock-pastoral  for  so  long  as  the  upper  and  lower 
classes  were  consciously  less  Puritan  than  the  middle. 

12 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

When  that  goes  the  pastoral  tricks  of  thought  take 
refuge  in  child-cult. 

One  strong  help  for  the  pastoral  convention  was  the 
tradition,  coming  down  from  the  origin  of  our  romantic 
love-poetry  in  the  troubadours,  that  its  proper  tone  is 
one  of  humility,  that  the  proper  moments  to  dramatise 
in  a  love-affair  are  those  when  the  lover  is  in  despair. 
(Much  theorising  might  be  done  in  praise  of  this  con- 
vention ;  some  of  it  comes  into  Poe's  absurd  proof  that 
melancholy  is  the  most  poetical  of  die  tones.  For  one 
thing  the  mere  fact  that  you  don't  altogether  believe 
in  the  poet's  expressions  of  despair  makes  you  feel  that 
he  has  reserves  of  strength.)  Granted  this,  the  low  man 
has  only  to  shift  his  humility  onto  his  love  affairs  to 
adopt  the  dignity  of  a  courtly  convention.  There  is 
a  good  example  in  As  You  Like  It;  we  see  Corin 
for  a  moment  bewailing  his  hopeless  love  with  an 
older  shepherd,  and  then  the  gentry  try  to  get  food 
out  of  him. 

Clown.  Holla !  you,  clown ! 

Rosalind.  Peace,  fool,  he's  not  thy  kinsman. 

Corin.  Who  calls  ? 

Clown.  Your  betters,  sir. 

Corin.  Else  they  are  very  wretched. 

Rosalind  has  heard  the  previous  conversation,  but  no 
doubt  she  would  understand  tlus  anyway ;  the  shepherd 
is  giving  himself  airs  rather  than  being  humble,  but 
he  has  every  right  to  it,  and  the  court  clown  is  silenced 
for  the  rest  of  the  scene. 

The  convention  was,  of  course,  often  absurdly  arti- 
ficial ;  the  praise  of  simplicity  usually  went  with  extreme 
flattery  of  a  patron  (dignified  as  a  symbol  of  the  whole 
society,  through  the  connection  of  pastoral  with  heroic), 

13 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

done  so  that  the  author  could  get  some  of  the  patron's 
luxuries;    it  allowed  the  flattery  to  be  more  extreme 
because  it  helped  both  author  and  patron  to  keep  their 
self-respect.    So  it  was  much  parodied,  especially  to  make 
the  poor  man  worthy  but  ridiculous,  as  often  in  Shake- 
speare ;  nor  is  tins  merely  snobbish  when  in  its  full  form. 
The  simple  man  becomes  a  clumsy  fool  who  yet  has 
better  *  sense  *  than  Ins  betters  and  can  say  things  more 
fundamentally  true ;    he  is  *  in  contact  with  nature/ 
which  the  complex  man  needs  to  be,  so  that  Bottom 
is  not  afraid  of  the  fairies ;    he  is  in  contact  with  the 
mysterious  forces  of  our  own  nature,  so  that  the  clown 
has  the  wit  of  the  Unconscious;    he  can  speak  the 
truth  because  he  has  nothing  to  lose.     Also  the  idea 
that  he  is  in  contact  with  nature,  therefore  *  one  with 
the  universe  '  like  the  Senecan  man,  brought  in  a  sugges- 
tion of  stoicism ;    this  made  the  thing  less  unreal  since 
the  humorous  poor  man  is  more  obviously  stoical  than 
profound.    And  there  may  be  obscure  feelings  at  work, 
which  I  am  unable  to  list,  like  those  about  the  earth- 
touching  Buddha.    Another  use  of  the  clown  (itself  a 
word  for  the  simple  countryman)  should  be  mentioned 
here ;   the  business  of  the  macabre,  where  you  make  a 
clown  out  of  death.     Death  in  the  Holbein  Dance  of 
Dcadi,  a  skeleton  still  skinny,  is  often  an  elegant  and 
charming  small  figure  whose  wasp  waist  gives  him  a 
certain  mixed-sex  quality,  and  though  we  are  to  think 
otherwise  he  conceives  himself  as  poking  fun;    he  is 
seen  at  his  best  when  piping  to  an  idiot  clown  and  lead- 
ing  him   on,   presumably  to  some  precipice,   treating 
this  great  coy  figure  with  so  gay  and  sympathetic  an 
admiration  diat  the  picture  stays  in  one's  mind  chiefly 
as  a  love  scene.    It  is  a  far  cry  from  pastoral,  but  the 

14 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

clown  has  such  feelings  behind  him  among  his  sources 
of  strength. 

Thus  both  versions,  straight  and  comic,  are  based  on 
a  double  attitude  of  the  artist  to  the  worker,  of  the 
complex  man  to  the  simple  one  ('  I  am  in  one  way 
better,  in  another  not  so  good '),  and  tins  may  well 
recognise  a  permanent  truth  about  the  aesthetic  situation. 
To  produce  pure  proletarian  art  the  artist  must  be  at 
one  with  the  worker ;  this  is  impossible,  not  for  political 
reasons,  but  because  the  artist  never  is  at  one  with  any 
public.  The  grandest  attempt  at  escape  from  this  is 
provided  by  Gertrude  Stein,  who  claims  to  be  a  direct 
expression  of  the  Zeitgeist  (the  present  stage  of  the  dia- 
lectic process)  and  therefore  to  need  no  other  relation 
to  a  public  of  any  kind.  She  has  in  fact  a  very  definite 
relation  to  her  public,  and  I  should  call  her  work  a 
version  of  child-cult,  winch  is  a  version  of  pastoral; 
this  does  not  by  any  means  make  it  bad.  The  point  is 
to  this  extent  a  merely  philosophical  one,  that  I  am 
not  concerned  to  deny  any  practical  claim  made  for 
what  is  called  proletarian  literature  so  long  as  the  artist 
had  not  been  misled  by  its  theory ;  I  only  call  it  a  bogus 
concept.  It  may  be  that  to  produce  any  good  art  the 
artist  must  be  somehow  in  contact  with  the  worker, 
it  may  be  that  this  is  what  is  wrong  with  the  arts  in  the 
West,  it  may  be  that  Russia  is  soon  going  to  produce 
a  very  good  art,  with  all  the  vigour  of  a  society  which 
is  a  healthy  and  unified  organism,  but  I  am  sure  it  will 
not  be  pure  proletarian  art  and  I  think  it  will  spoil 
itself  if  it  tries  to  be.  < 

It  seems  clear  that  the  Worker,  as  used  in  proletarian 
propaganda,  is  a  myducal  cult-figure  of  the  sort  I  have 
tried  to  describe.     This  is  not  peculiar  to  one  party. 

15 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

As  I  write,  the  Government  has  just  brought  out  a 
poster  giving  the  numbers  of  men  back  at  work,  with 
a  large  photograph  of  a  skilled  worker  using  a  chisel. 
He  is  a  stringy  but  tough,  vital  but  not  over-strong, 
Cockney  type,  with  a  great  deal  of  the  genuine  but  odd 
refinement  of  the  English  lower  middle  class.    This  is 
very  strong  Tory  propaganda;    one  feels  it  is  fair  to 
take  him  as  a  type  of  the  English  skilled  worker,  and  it 
cuts   out   the   communist   feelings   about   the   worker 
merely  to  look  at  him.    To  accept  the  picture  is  to  feel 
that  the  skilled  worker's  interests  are  bound  up  with  his 
place  in  the  class  system  and  the  success  of  British  foreign 
policy  in  finding  markets.     There  is  an  unfortunate 
lack  of  a  word  here.    To  call  such  a  picture  a  *  symbol,' 
like  a  sign  in  mathematics,  is  to  ignore  the  sources  of 
its  power ;   to  call  it  a  *  myth '  is  to  make  an  offensive 
suggestion  that  the  author  is  superior  to  common  feelings. 
I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  such  pictures  are  nonsense 
because  they  are  myths ;  the  facts  of  the  life  of  a  nation, 
for  instance  the  way  public  opinion  swings  round,  are 
very  strange  indeed,  and  probably  a  half-magical  idea 
is  the  quickest  way  to  the  truth.    People  who  consider 
that  the  Worker  group  of  sentiments  is  misleading  in 
contemporary  politics  tend  to  use  the  word  *  romantic ' 
as  a  missile ;    unless  they  merely  mean  *  false  '  this  is 
quite  off  the  point ;  what  they  ought  to  do  is  to  produce 
a  rival  myth,  like  the  poster.    In  calling  it  mythical  I 
mean   that   complex   feelings,   involving   all  kinds   of 
distant  matters,  are  put  into  it  as  a  symbol,  with  an 
implication  *  this  is  the  right  worker  to  select  and  keep 
in  mind  as  the  type,*  and  that  among  them  is  an  obscure 
magical  feeling  *  while  he  is  like  this  he  is  Natural 
and  that  will  induce  Nature  to  make  us  prosperous.' 

16 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

The  point  is  not  that  myths  ought  not  to  be  used  but 
that  their  use  in  proletarian  literature  is  not  as  simple 
as  it  looks. 

The  realistic  sort  of  pastoral  (the  sort  touched  by 
mock-pastoral)  also  gives  a  natural  expression  for  a 
sense  of  social  injustice.  So  far  as  the  person  described 
is  outside  society  because  too  poor  for  its  benefits  he  is 
independent,  as  the  artist  claims  to  be,  and  can  be  a 
critic  of  society ;  so  far  as  he  is  forced  by  this  into  crime 
he  is  the  judge  of  the  society  that  judges  him.  This  is 
a  source  of  irony  both  against  him  and  against  the 
society,  and  if  he  is  a  sympathetic  criminal  he  can  be 
made  to  suggest  both  Christ  as  the  scapegoat  (so  invoking 
Christian  charity)  and  the  sacrificial  tragic  hero,  who 
was  normally  above  society  rather  than  below  it,  which 
is  a  further  source  of  irony.  Dostoevsky  is  always 
using  these  ideas;  perhaps  unhealthily,  but  as  very 
strong  propaganda.  But  I  doubt  whether  they  are 
allowed  in  pure  proletarian  literature ;  the  communists 
do  not  approve  of  them,  cither  as  tragic  or  Christian, 
both  because  they  glorify  the  independent  man  and 
because  they  could  be  used  against  any  society,  including 
a  communist  one. 

I  am  trying  here  to  deal  with  the  popular,  vague  but 
somehow  obvious,  idea  of  proletarian  literature,  which 
is  what  is  influential ;  there  may  be  a  secret  and  refined 
definition  which  disposes  of  what  I  have  to  say.  What 
seems  clear  from  the  varying  accounts  of  the  position 
of  authors  m  Russia  is  that  no  one  definition  is  generally 
accepted.  Sympathisers  tell  you  there  is  an  arrangement 
by  which  authors  are  expected  to  do  journalistic  jobs, 
writing  up  conditions  in  a  distant  chain  of  factories 
or  what  not,  and  in  their  private  writing  have  only  to 

b  17 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

avoid  active  sedition ;  this  seems  healthy  if  the  govern- 
ment would  stick  to  it  but  not  of  much  critical  interest. 
Gorki,  in  his  speech  to  the  1934  All-Union  Congress  of 
Soviet  Writers,  made  a  wider  use  of  the  crucial  formula 
of  proletarian  literature,  *  socialist  realism.' 

To  invent  means  to  extract  from  the  totality  of  real  existence 
its  basic  idea  and  to  incarnate  this  in  an  image ;  thus  we  obtain 
realism.  But  if  to  the  idea  extracted  from  the  real  is  added  the 
desirable,  the  potential,  and  the  image  is  supplemented  by  this, 
we  obtain  that  romanticism  which  lies  at  the  basis  of  myth  and 
is  highly  useful  in  that  it  facilitates  the  arousing  of  a  revolutionary 
attitude  towards  reality,  an  attitude  of  practically  changing  the 
world. 

I  hope  that  this  use  of  the  word  '  myth  '  will  show  that 
my  use  of  it  is  not  a  distortion.  The  idea  of  the  wheel 
going  on  revolving,  even  if  you  add  dialectical  material- 
ism by  saying  that  this  gives  it  progress  along  the  ground, 
is  one  that  a  communist  must  not  push  too  far — revolu- 
tionary proletarian  literature,  in  intention  at  any  rate, 
is  obviously  a  product  of  transition ;  and  the  second 
sentence  might  be  misunderstood  as  an  appeal  for  lying 
propaganda.  But  the  only  real  trouble  about  this  as 
an  account  of  proletarian  literature  is  that  it  applies 
to  any  good  literature  whatever.  When  communists 
say  that  an  author  under  modern  capitalism  feels  cut 
off  from  most  of  the  life  of  the  country,  and  would  not 
under  communism,  the  remark  has  a  great  deal  of 
truth,  though  he  might  only  exchange  a  sense  of  isola- 
tion for  a  sense  of  the  waste  of  his  powers ;  it  is  certainly 
not  so  completely  true  as  to  make  the  verse  from  Gray 
pointless  to  a  man  living  under  communism.  The  way 
this  sense  of  isolation  has  been  avoided  in  the  past  is 
by  the  conventions  of  pastoral  with  winch  I  am  con- 
cerned.     (Even    Alice    in    Wonderland,    though    her 

18 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

convention  corresponds  to  a  failure  in  the  normal 
tradition  of  pastoral,  does  indeed  stand  for  something 
that  produces  a  feeling  of  solidarity  between  classes.) 
When  they  say  that  a  proletarian  writer  is  the  '  spokes- 
man and  representative  of  the  proletariat '  this  is  some- 
thing like  a  definition ;  but  once  everybody  is  proletarian 
he  is  merely  the  representative  of  man ;  and  in  any  case 
a  representative  is  conscious  that  he  is  not  the  same  as 
what  he  represents.  When  Radck  in  his  speech  at  the 
same  congress  appealed  for  the  help  of  foreign  writers 
in  the  production  of  a  great  proletarian  literature  of 
'  love  to  all  oppressed,  hate  toward  the  exploiting  class. 
.  .  .  Into  this  literature  we  will  pour  the  soul  of  the 
proletariat,  its  passions  and  its  love  .  .  . '  his  rhetoric 
is  meant  to  shift  from  a  political  idea  to  a  universal 
one.  To  say  that  the  only  way  a  present-day  writer 
can  produce  good  work  is  by  devoting  himself  to 
political  propaganda  is  of  course  another  thing  from 
defining  proletarian  literature,  and  in  some  cases  is 
true.  But  it  seems  fair  to  say  that  there  is  some  doubt 
about  the  definition. 

The  poetic  statements  of  human  waste  and  limitation, 
whose  function  is  to  give  strength  to  see  life  clearly  and 
so  to  adopt  a  fuller  attitude  to  it,  usually  bring  in,  or 
leave  room  for  the  reader  to  bring  in,  the  whole  set  of 
pastoral  ideas.  For  such  crucial  literary  achievements 
are  likely  to  attempt  to  reconcile  some  conflict  between 
the  parts  of  a  society ;  literature  is  a  social  process,  and 
also  an  attempt  to  reconcile  the  conflicts  of  an  individual 
in  whom  those  of  society  will  be  mirrored.  (The 
belief  that  a  man's  ideas  are  wholly  the  product  of  his 
economic  setting  is  of  course  as  fatuous  as  the  belief 
that  they  are  wholly  independent  of  it.)     So  *  funda- 

19 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

mentally  true '  goes  to  *  true  about  people  in  all  parts 

of  society,  even  those  you  wouldn't  expect/  and  this 

implies  the  tone  of  humility  normal  to  pastoral.    *  I  now 

abandon  my  specialised  feelings  because  I  am  trying  to 

find  better  ones,  so  I  must  balance  myself  for  the  moment 

by  imagining  the  feelings  of  the  simple  person.    He  may 

be  in  a  better  state  than  I  am  by  luck,  freshness,  or  divine 

grace ;  value  is  outside  any  scheme  for  the  measurement 

of  value  because  that  too  must  be  valued.'     Various 

paradoxes  may  be  thrown  in  here ;    *  I  must  imagine 

his  way  of  feeling  because  the  refined  thing  must  be 

judged  by  the  fundamental  thing,  because  strength  must 

be  learnt  in  weakness  and  sociability  in  isolation,  because 

the  best  manners  are  learnt  in  the  simple  life  '  (this  last 

is  the  point  of  Spenser's  paradox  about  *  courtly  '  ;  the 

Book    of  Courtesy    takes    the    reader    among    Noble 

Savages).     Now  all  these  ideas  are  very  well  suited  to 

a  socialist  society,  and  have  been  made  to  fit  in  very 

well  with  the  dogma  of  the  equality  of  man,  but  I  do 

not  see  diat  dicy  fit  in  with  a  rigid  proletarian  aesthetic. 

They  assume  that  it  is  sometimes  a  good  thing  to  stand 

apart  from  your  society  so  far  as  you  can.    They  assume 

that  some  people  arc  more  delicate  and  complex  than 

others,  and  that  if  such  people  can  keep  this  distinction 

from  doing  harm  it  is  a  good  thing,  though  a  small 

thing   by   comparison   with   our   common   humanity. 

Once  you  allow  the  arts  to  admit  this  you  will  get  works 

of  art  which  imply  that  the  special  man  ought  to  be 

more    specially    treated,    and    that    is    not    proletarian 

literature. 

It  is  for  reasons  like  these  that  the  most  valuable 
works  of  art  so  often  have  a  political  implication  which 
can  be  pounced  on  and  called  bourgeois.     They  carry 

20 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

an  implication  about  the  society  they  were  written  for ; 
the  question  is  whether  the  same  must  not  be  true  of 
any  human  society,  even  if  it  is  much  better  than  theirs. 
My  own  difficulty  about  proletarian  literature  is  that 
when  it  comes  off  I  find  I  am  taking  it  as  pastoral  litera- 
ture ;  I  read  into  it,  or  find  that  the  author  has  secretly 
put  into  it,  these  more  subtle,  more  far-reaching,  and 
I  think  more  permanent,  ideas. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  know  how  far  the  ideas 
of  pastoral  in  this  wide  sense  are  universal,  and  I  think 
that  to  attempt  a  rough  world-view  brings  in  another 
point  about  the  communist  aesthetic.  With  the  partial 
exception  of Alice  they  are  all  part  of  the  normal  European 
tradition,  but  they  might  seem  dependent  on  that, 
especially  as  dependent  on  Christianity.  In  my  account 
die  ideas  about  the  Sacrificial  Hero  as  Dying  God  are 
mixed  up  in  the  brew,  and  these,  whose  supreme  form 
is  Christianity,  mainly  belong  to  Europe  and  the  Mediter- 
ranean. The  Golden  Bough  makes  a  clear  distinction 
between  this  hero  and  the  Sincere  Man  as  One  with 
Nature,  who  is  also  sacrificial  so  far  as  national  calamity 
proves  that  the  emperor  is  not  sincere,  but  refuses  to 
try  to  separate  them ;  it  seems  clear  that  they  are  at 
home  respectively  in  the  West  and  the  East.  On  the 
other  hand  interest  in  the  problems  of  the  One  and 
the  Many,  especially  their  social  aspects,  is  ancient  and 
obvious  in  the  East,  and  many  of  the  versions  of  pastoral 
come  out  of  that.  The  idea  of  everything  being  included 
in  the  humble  thing,  with  mystical  respect  for  poor 
men,  fools,  and  children,  and  a  contrasting  idea  of 
everything  being  included  in  the  ruling  hero,  were  a 
main  strand  of  Chinese  thought  by  the  third  century 
B.C. ;    before   Buddhism   and   not  limited   to  Taoism. 

21 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

In  China  the  feeling  that  everything  is  everything  so 
nothing  is  worth  doing,  natural  to  this  mode  of  thought, 
was  balanced  by  the  Confucian  stress  on  the  exact 
performance  of  local  duties  and  ceremonies.  One  can 
make  a  list  of  European  ideas  with  the  same  purpose, 
of  making  the  immediate  thing  real,  all  of  which  stress 
the  individual  more  or  less  directly  and  are  denied  in 
the  East.  God  is  a  person ;  each  separate  individual  is 
immortal,  with  the  character  he  has  acquired  in  this 
life;  so  one  must  continually  worry  about  whether 
he  is  free ;  and  he  is  born  in  sin  so  that  he  must  make 
efforts ;  and  because  of  this  only  a  God,  individual  like 
the  rest  of  us,  is  worthy  to  be  sacrificed  to  God.  These 
ideas  were  knocking  about  Europe  before  they  were 
Christian,  and  the  rejection  of  Christ  may  well  be  a  less 
dangerous  clement  in  die  communist  position  than  the 
acceptance  of  Hegel.  Gorki  said  in  the  early  days  of  the 
Soviets  that  the  great  danger  for  Russia  is  that  she  may 
'  go  East/  a  pregnant  remark  even  if  the  East  itself  is 
inoculated  against  this  sort  of  philosophy.  It  may  be 
said  that  men  always  go  in  droves,  and  that  all  versions 
of  die  claim  to  individualism  are  largely  bogus ;  but 
that  gives  die  reason  why  the  prop  of  individualist 
theory  is  needed.  Once  you  have  said  that  everything 
is  One  it  is  obvious  that  literature  is  the  same  as  propa- 
ganda ;  once  you  have  said  that  no  truth  can  be  known 
beyond  the  immediate  dialectical  process  of  history  it 
is  obvious  that  all  contemporary  artists  mus"  prepare 
the  same  fashionplate.  It  is  clear  too  that  the  One  is 
limited  in  space  as  well  as  time,  and  the  no  less  Hegelian 
Fascists  are  right  in  saying  that  all  art  is  patriotic.  And 
the  dialectical  process  proceeds  through  conflicts,  so 
we  must  be  sure  and  have  plenty  of  big  wars.    Of  course 

22 


PROLETARIAN  LITERATURE 

to  talk  like  this  is  to  misunderstand  the  philosophy,  but 
once  the  philosophy  is  made  a  public  creed  it  is  sure  to 
be  misunderstood  in  some  such  way.  I  do  not  mean  to 
say  that  the  philosophy  is  wrong;  for  that  matter 
pastoral  is  worked  from  the  same  philosophical  ideas  as 
proletarian  literature — die  difference  is  that  it  brings  in 
the  absolute  less  prematurely.  Nor  am  I  trying  to  say 
anything  about  the  politics  and  economics,  only  that 
they  do  not  provide  an  aesthetic  dieory. 

In  the  following  essays  I  shall  try  to  show,  roughly  in 
historical  order,  the  ways  in  which  the  pastoral  process 
of  putting  the  complex  into  the  simple  (in  itself  a  great 
help  to  the  concentration  needed  for  poetry)  and  the 
resulting  social  ideas  have  been  used  in  English  literature. 
One  cannot  separate  it  from  die  hero  business  or  from 
the  device  of  '  pantification  '  (treating  the  symbol  as 
everything  diat  it  symbolises,  which  turns  out  to  be 
everything).  The  book  is  very  far  from  adequate  to 
such  a  theme ;  taken  widely  the  formula  might  include 
all  literature,  and  taken  narrowly  much  of  the  material 
is  irrelevant.  Probably  the  cases  I  take  are  the  surprising 
rather  than  the  normal  ones,  and  once  started  on  an 
example  I  follow  it  without  regard  to  die  unity  of  the 
book.  Certainly  it  is  not  a  solid  piece  of  sociology; 
for  that  matter  many  of  the  important  social  feelings 
do  not  find  their  way  into  literature.  But  I  should  claim 
that  the  same  trick  of  thought,  taking  very  different 
forms,  is  followed  through  a  historical  series. 


23 


Double  Plots 

Heroic  and  Pastoral  in  the  Main  Plot 
And  Sub-Plot 


I 

THE  mode  of  action  of  a  double  plot  is  the  sort  of 
thing  critics  are  liable  to  neglect;  it  does  not 
depend  on  being  noticed  for  its  operation,  so  is  neither 
an  easy  nor  an  obviously  useful  thing  to  notice*  Deciding 
which  sub-plot  to  put  with  which  main  plot  must  be 
like  deciding  what  order  to  put  the  turns  in  at  a  music 
hall,  a  form  of  creative  work  on  which  I  know  of  no 
critical  dissertation,  but  at  which  one  may  succeed  or 
fail.  As  in  the  music  hall,  the  parts  may  be  by  different 
hands,  different  in  tone  and  subject  matter,  hardly 
connected  by  plot,  and  yet  the  result  may  be  excellent ; 
The  Changeling  is  the  best  example  of  this  I  can  find. 
It  is  an  easy-going  device,  often  used  simply  to  fill  out 
a  play,  and  has  an  obvious  effect  in  the  Elizabethans  of 
making  you  feel  the  play  deals  with  life  as  a  whole, 
with  any  one  who  comes  onto  the  street  the  scene  so 
often  represents;  this  may  be  why  criticism  has  not 
taken  it  seriously  when  it  deserved  to  be.  Just  because 
of  this  carelessness  much  can  be  put  into  it ;  to  those 
who  miss  the  connections  the  thing  still  seems  sensible, 
and  queer  connections  can  be  insinuated  powerfully 
and  unobtrusively ;  especially  if  they  fit  in  with  ideas 
the  audience  already  has  at  the  back  of  its  mind.  The 
old  quarrel  about  tragi-comedy,  which  deals  with  part 
of  the  question,  shows  that  the  drama  in  England  has 
always  at  its  best  had  a  certain  looseness  of  structure ; 
one  might  almost  say  that  the  English  drama  did 
not  outlive  the  double  plot.  The  matter  is  not 
only  of  theoretical  interest;    it  seems  likely  that  the 

27 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

double  plot  needs  to  be  revived,  and  must  first  be 
understood. 

Probably  the  earliest  form  of  double  plot  is  the  comic 
interlude,  often  in  prose  between  serious  verse  scenes. 
Even  here  the  relation  between  the  two  is  neither  obvious 
nor  constant;  the  comic  part  relieves  boredom  and 
the  strain  of  belief  in  the  serious  part,  but  this  need  not 
imply  criticism  of  it.  FalstafF  may  carry  a  half-secret 
doubt  about  the  value  of  the  kings  and  their  quarrels, 
but  the  form  derived  from  the  Miracle  Plays,  and  Mac's 
wife  in  the  Nativity  is  doing  something  more  peculiar. 
To  hide  a  stolen  sheep  in  the  cradle  and  call  it  her  new- 
born child  is  a  very  detailed  parallel  to  the  Paschal 
Lamb,  hidden  in  the  appearance  of  a  newborn  child, 
open  to  scandal  because  without  a  legal  father,  and  kept 
among  animals  in  the  manger.  The  Logos  enters 
humanity  from  above  as  this  sheep  docs  from  below, 
or  takes  on  the  animal  nature  of  man  which  is  like  a 
man  becoming  a  sheep,  or  sustains  all  nature  and  its 
laws  so  that  in  one  sense  it  is  as  truly  present  in  the 
sheep  as  the  man.  The  searchers  think  this  a  very 
peculiar  child,  a  '  natural '  sent  from  the  supernatural, 
and  Mac's  wife  tries  to  quiet  them  by  a  powerful  joke 
on  the  eating  of  Christ  in  the  Sacrament : 

If  ever  I  you  beguiled 

May  I  eat  this  child, 

That  lies  in  this  cradle. 

This  parody  must  have  had  its  effect  on  the  many 
critics  who  have  praised  the  scene,  but  I  don't  remember 
to  have  read  one  of  them  who  mentioned  it ;  I  suppose 
those  who  were  conscious  of  what  was  affecting  them  ' 
thought  it  obvious.  The  effect  is  hard  to  tape  down ; 
it  seems  a  sort  of  test  of  the  belief  in  the  Incarnation 

28 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

strong  enough  to  prove  it  to  be  massive  and  to  make  the 
humorous  thieves  into  fundamental  symbols  of  humanity. 

Wyndham  Lewis's  excellent  book,  for  one,  points 
out  that  the  Miracle  Play  tradition  gave  a  hint  of  magic 
to  Elizabethan  drama ;  with  nationalism  and  the  disorder 
of  religion  the  Renaissance  Magnificent  Man  took  the 
place  of  the  patron  saint,  anyway  on  the  stage ;  hence 
the  tragic  hero  was  a  king  on  sacrificial  as  well  as  Aris- 
totelian grounds;  his  death  was  somehow  Christlike, 
somehow  on  his  tribe's  account,  something  like  an 
atonement  for  his  tribe  that  put  it  in  harmony  with 
God  or  nature.  This  seems  a  less  wild  notion  if  one 
remembers  that  a  sixteenth-century  critic  would  be 
interested  in  magical  theories  about  kings;  he  would 
not  be  blankly  surprised  as  at  the  psychoanalyst  on 
Hamlet.  In  the  obscure  suggestions  of  the  two  plots 
one  would  expect  to  find  this  as  a  typical  submerged 
concept,  and  in  fact  their  fundamental  use  was  to  show 
the  labour  of  the  king  or  saint  in  the  serious  part  and 
in  the  comic  part  the  people,  as  *  popular '  as  possible, 
for  whom  he  laboured.  This  gave  a  sort  of  reality  to 
the  sentiments  about  the  king  or  saint  (Marriage  a  la 
Mode  is  an  odd  example — they  needed  giving  reality 
there) ;  even  here  the  relation  between  the  two  parts 
is  that  of  symbol  and  thing  symbolised. 

This  in  itself  can  hardly  be  kept  from  irony,  and  the 
comic  part,  once  licensed,  has  an  obvious  subject  for 
its  jokes.  Usually  it  provides  a  sort  of  parody  or 
parallel  in  low  life  to  the  serious  part ;  Faustus'  servant 
gets  dangerously  mixed  up  with  the  devils  like  his  master. 
This  gives  an  impression  of  dealing  with  life  com- 
pletely, so  that  critics  sometimes  say  that  Henry  IV 
deals  with  the  whole  of  English  life  at  some  date,  either 

29 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Shakespeare's  or  Henry's ;  this  is  palpable  nonsense,  but 
what  die  device  wants  to  make  you  feel.  Also  the  play 
can  thus  anticipate  the  parody  a  hearer  might  have  in 
mind  without  losing  its  dignity,  winch  again  has  a 
sort  of  completeness.  It  is  hard  to  feel  that  Mac's  wife 
was  meant  to  do  this,  but  she  is  only  the  less  conscious 
end  of  a  scale,  and  perhaps  no  example  occupies  only 
one  point  of  it.  A  remark  by  Middleton  on  clowns 
seems  a  comment  on  this  process : 

There's  nothing  in  a  play  to  a  clown,  if  he 

Have  but  the  grace  to  hit  on't ;  that's  the  thing  indeed  : 

The  king  shows  well,  but  he  sets  off  the  king. 

The  ideas  of/0//  to  a  jewel  and  soil  from  which  a  flower 
grows  give  the  two  different  views  of  such  a  character, 
and  with  a  long  *  s  '  the  words  are  almost  indistinguish- 
able; it  may  be  significant  that  the  first  edition  of 
Tamburlanc's  Beauty  speech  reads  soil  for  the  accepted 
*  foil,'  a  variant  I  have  never  seen  listed,  but  the  line 
is  at  some  distance  from  interpreting  cither  word.  A 
clear  case  of '  foil '  is  given  by  the  play  of  heroic  swash- 
bucklers winch  has  a  comic  cowardly  swashbuckler 
(Parolles),  not  at  all  to  parody  the  heroes  but  to  stop 
you  from  doing  so :  'If  you  want  to  laugh  at  this  sort 
of  thing  laugh  now  and  get  it  over.'  I  believe  the  Soviet 
Government  in  its  early  days  paid  two  clowns,  Bim 
and  Bom,  to  say  as  jokes  the  things  everybody  else 
would  have  been  shot  for  saying. 

An  account  of  the  double  plot,  then,  is  needed  for 
a  general  view  of  pastoral  because  the  interaction  of 
the  two  plots  gives  a  particularly  clear  setting  for,  or 
machine  for  imposing,  the  social  and  metaphysical  ideas 
on  which  pastoral  depends.  What  is  displayed  on  the 
tragi-comic  stage  is  a  sort  of  marriage  of  the  myths  of 

30 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

heroic  and  pastoral,  a  thing  felt  as  fundamental  to  both 
and  necessary  to  the  health  of  society.  In  a  later  part 
of  this  essay  I  shall  take  the  hypostatised  hero  alone  and 
try  to  show  that  his  machinery  is  already  like  that  of 
pastoral,  and  more  will  have  to  be  said  about  the  con- 
nections of  heroic  and  pastoral  in  the  essay  on  the 
Beggar's  Opera,  where  the  two  halves  of  the  stock 
double  plot  are  written  simultaneously.  It  will  be 
clear,  I  hope,  that  the  comic  characters  are  in  a  sense 
figures  of  pastoral  myth  so  far  as  they  make  profound 
remarks  and  do  tilings  with  unexpectedly  great  effects, 
but  I  want  now  to  look  at  some  double  plots  in  action 
without  special  attention  to  their  clowns. 

Some  critics  have  called  Green's  plays  *  a  heap  of 
isolated  episodes,  with  clumsy  devices  to  explain  the 
course  of  the  action  ' ;  others  have  said  that  Ins  invention 
of  the  double  plot,  as  apart  from  the  comic  sub-plot, 
required  the  wide  overriding  grasp  of  detail  of  a  brain 
trained  in  the  law.  But  I  don't  know  who  has  tried 
to  say  what  the  point  of  die  method  is ;  why  it  is  an 
advantage,  in  the  early  Friar  Bacon  and  Friar  Bungay, 
that  the  story  of  King  Edward's  love  for  Margaret, 
the  keeper's  daughter,  and  his  magnanimity  m  letting 
himself  be  cut  out  by  die  Earl  of  Lincoln,  should  be 
told  side  by  side  with  die  story  of  Bacon  and  the  Brazen 
Head ;  why,  if  these  stories  have  nothing  to  do  with 
each  other,  they  should  form  a  unity  by  being  juxtaposed. 

One  connection  is  that  Margaret  and  Bacon,  like 
Faustus  and  Tamburlane,  are  low-born  people  who  by 
their  own  qualities  have  obtained  respect  and  power; 
both  stories  are  democratic  and  individualist.  But  such 
powers  are  dangerous  (Bacon  was  rushed  out  as  a  rival 
to  Faustus) ;    at  one  point  there  is  a  very  firm  parallel 

3i 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

between  Margaret  and  Bacon  to  make  this  clear.  It 
has  been  called  a  specially  shameless  piece  of  episodic 
writing  that  Edward  should  forgive  the  Earl  of  Lincoln 
so  early  as  the  third  act,  thus  leaving  time,  while  the 
earl  is  *  testing '  her  by  pretending  to  break  it  off,  for 
two  country  gentlemen  to  become  rivals  for  her  hand 
and  kill  each  other  in  a  duel.  In  any  case  this  is  the 
repetition  of  a  situation  with  new  characters  to  show  all 
its  possibilities;  also  how  wise  the  king  has  been,  and 
how  humble  Margaret  is  still,  and  how  it  is  a  fatal 
hubris  for  mere  gentry  to  love  this  demigoddess,  and 
how  they  are  sure  to  do  so  in  any  pause  of  the  story. 
But  its  main  use  is  to  compare  her  to  Bacon.  While 
the  duel  is  going  on  two  scholars  at  Oxford  have  asked 
to  see  their  fathers  in  Bacon's  perspective  glass ;  they 
see  them  kill  each  other,  so  they  kill  each  other  too. 
Bacon  cracks  his  glass  and  forswears  necromancy,  and 
we  next  see  Margaret  preparing  to  turn  nun ;  they  are 
well-meaning,  but  their  powers  are  fatal.  (One  may 
add  that  she  marries  the  earl,  and  that  Bacon  uses  his 
powers  at  least  once  more  to  have  his  servant  carried 
off  by  the  devil.)  This  incident  had  to  come  late,  not 
till  we  have  learned  to  respect  them  both  will  we  find 
it  natural  to  compare  them;  it  had  to  be  applied  to 
minor  lovers  of  Margaret,  or  it  would  spoil  the  happy 
ending.  So  if  you  start  with  the  two  legends  and  the 
intention  of  making  this  comparison  Green's  *  episodic  ' 
plot  is  the  only  possible  one. 

On  seeing  the  calamity  the  friars  say : 

Bungay.  O  strange  stratagem  ! 

[as  if  it  was  intentional]. 
Bacon.  See,  friar,  where  the  fathers  both  lie  dead. 

Bacon,  thy  magic  doth  effect  this  massacre. 

32 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

The  sense  must  be  *  Not  a  trick  of  mine  intended  to 
kill  the  sons;  the  fathers  are  really  dead.  Still  I  have 
killed  the  sons  with  my  magic/  This  stress  is  then  on 
this  ('  not  the  fathers ').  But  the  rough  impression  is 
that  Bungay  is  accustomed  to  villainy  and  that  Bacon 
admits  he  has  killed  all  four.  His  magic  is  somehow 
the  same  as  Margaret's  magic,  which  has  also  killed  all 
four. 

The  process  is  simply  that  of  dramatising  a  literary 
metaphor — *  the  power  of  beauty  is  like  the  power  of  0 
magic '  ;  both  are  individualist,  dangerous,  and  outside  V 
the  social  order.  But  it  is  so  strong  that  it  brings  out 
other  ideas  which  were  at  the  back  of  the  metaphor. 
It  lets  Margaret's  continual  insistence  that  she  is  humble 
and  only  the  keeper's  daughter  make  her  into  a  sort 
of  earth-goddess,  and  Bacon's  magic,  though  not  from 
Black  Magic  like  Faust's,  is  from  an  earth-magic  he 
must  repent  of;  his  pupil  Bungay  actually  defends  the 
claims  of  die  earth-spirits,  in  an  argument  with  the 
foreign  magician  Vandermast,  against  Vandermast's 
more  ethereal  spirits  of  the  fire.  Here  at  least  M.  Saurat's 
theory  of  the  influence  of  the  cabbalists  is  not  fanciful, 
for  they  are  quoted,  and  Bungay  is  making  just  that 
claim  for  the  value  of  matter — 

I  tell  thee,  German,  magic  haunts  the  ground 
which  M.  Saurat  takes  as  the  essential  novelty  of  the 
Renaissance.  (Matter  is  not  evil  and  made  from  nothing 
but  part  of  God  from  which  God  willingly  removed  his 
will ;  one  can  therefore  put  more  trust  in  the  flesl?,  the 
sciences,  the  natural  man  and  soon.) 

The  effect  on  the  friars  is  to  make  them  *  jolly/ 
connected  widi  low  life  or  die  people  as  a  whole.  That 
is  why  Bacon  depends  on  his  servant  Miles  at  the  crucial 

c  33 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

moment  of  preparing  the  head ;  it  shows  the  importance 
of  the  common  people  for  this  sort  of  magic,  and  yet 
we  are  to  feel  that  Miles  was  right  (so  that  he  too  is  the 
fool  who  becomes  the  critic)  in  letting  the  head  spoil. 
Also  it  was  not  very  wicked  of  Bacon  to  let  the  devil 
carry  him  off;  it  is  only  an  earth-devil  and  it  suits  him ; 
he  rides  on  its  back.  And  it  does  not  seem  an  irrelevant 
piece  of  flattery  when  Bacon  produces  a  final  prophecy 
in  praise  of  Elizabeth;  it  was  this  Renaissance  half- 
worship  of  Elizabeth  and  the  success  of  England  under 
her  rule  that  gave  conviction  to  the  whole  set  of  ideas. 
One  need  not  suppose  that  Green  invented  these  im- 
plications any  more  than  the  stories  themselves ;  what  I 
want  to  point  out  is  that  die  double  plot  was  an  excellent 
vehicle  for  them,  if  only  because  it  could  suggest  so 
powerfully  without  stating  anything  open  to  objection. 

There  are  two  elements  here,  both  normal  to  the 
form;  used  in  the  same  way,  though  incomparably 
more  intelligendy,  in  Troilus  and  Cressida.  The  two 
parts  make  a  mutual  comparison  that  illuminates  both 
parties  ('  love  and  war  are  alike  ')  and  their  large-scale 
indefinite  juxtaposition  seems  to  encourage  primitive 
ways  of  thought  (*  Cressida  will  bring  Troy  bad  luck 
because  she  is  bad  ').  This  power  of  suggestion  is  the 
strength  of  the  double  plot;  once  you  take  the  two 
parts  to  correspond,  any  character  may  take  on  tnana 
because  he  seems  to  cause  what  he  corresponds  to 
or  be  Logos  of  what  he  symbolises.  The  political 
theorising  in  Troilus  (chiefly  about  loyalty  whether 
to  a  mistress  or  die  state)  becomes  more  interesting 
if  you  take  it  as  a  conscious  development  by  Shakespeare 
of  the  ideas  inherent  in  die  double-plot  convention. 

It  is  with  this  machinery  that  Troilus  compares  the 

34 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

sexual  with  the  political  standards,  and  shows  both  in 
disruption.  The  breaking  of  Cressida's  vow  is  sym- 
bolical of,  the  breaking  of  Helen's  vow  is  cause  of, 
what  the  play  shows  (chiefly  by  the  combat  between 
Hector  and  his  first  cousin  Ajax)  to  be  a  civil  war; 
Shakespeare's  horror  of  this  theme,  which  history  so 
soon  justified,  may  in  part  explain  the  grimness  of  his 
treatment  (all  large  towns  in  the  plays  are  conceived 
as  London) ;  and  it  is  because  of  this  that  the  disloyal 
elements  in  the  Greek  camp,  Ajax  and  Achilles,  com- 
pared to  Cressida,  disloyal  because  of  Briseis,  seem  only 
to  carry  further  the  social  disruption  caused  by  Helen. 
(Cressida  is  called  Briseida  in  the  first  version  of  her 
story.)  From  his  name,  as  its  rising  hope,  and  because 
both  are  victims  of  women,  Troilus  becomes  a  symbol 
of  Troy;  as  he  is  loyal  to  Cressida,  so  Troy  is  not 
broken  up  by  disloyalties  like  the  Greek  camp.  Yet 
its  isolation  is  the  product  of  a  disloyalty,  against  hos- 
pitality in  the  theft  of  Helen,  and  this  is  somehow  like 
the  original  mistake  in  his  choice  of  Cressida ;  there  is 
a  pathetic  irony  and  fitness  in  his  support  of  Paris, 
cuckold  supporting  cuckold-maker,  in  the  council 
scene. 

If  you  say  he  was  no  husband,  that  he  should  deserve 
this  title,  then  the  only  reason  he  wasn't  was  to  make  him 
more  like  Paris,  the  private  affair  more  like  the  publicly 
important  one.  But  the  point  is  as  obscure  here  as  in 
Chaucer.  Critics  talk  about  the  '  troubadour  conven- 
tion,' but  in  its  normal  form  the  woman  adored  v)as 
already  married.  Certainly  the  play  is  not  interested 
in  marriage  so  much  as  in  the  prior  idea  of  loyalty,  but 
it  was  to  the  interest  of  these  lovers  to  marry  so  as  to 
have  a  claim  against  being  separated.    Drydcn's  quarrel 

35 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

scene  in  which  Troilus  heroically  gives  her  up  for  the 
sake  of  Troy  makes  a  much  more  coherent  situation, 
but  Shakespeare  wanted  to  make  them  wild  flowers, 
almost  ignorant  of  the  storm  that  destroyed  them,  and 
only  as  it  were  naturally  parallel  to  it.  Morton  Luce 
said  that  III.  ii.  was  meant  as  a  regular  betrothal— regular 
enough  for  these  heathens,  anyway — and  if  so  *  I  take 
to-day  a  wife '  (II.  ii.  61)  may  be  meant  as  simple  state- 
ment rather  than  dramatic  irony.  Probably  Shakespeare 
saw  no  reason  to  decide  which. 

One  effect  of  this  is  that  the  whole  weight  of  Shake- 
speare's *  everprcsent  fear  of  the  breaking  of  the  flood- 
gates/ the  whole  Pelion  of  theory  ranged  through  the 
speeches  of  Ulysses,  is  piled  by  mere  juxtaposition  onto 
Cressida;   her  case  has  to  be  taken  as  seriously  as  the 
whole  war  because  it  involves  the  same  sanctions  and 
occupies  an  equal  position  in  the  play.    We  are  made  to 
feel  she  ought  to  have  known  this,  ought  to  have  been 
hushed  into  virtue  by  comparing  herself  with  the  whole 
war,  whereas  in  fact  one  of  its  minor  results  was  that 
she  was  tempted  to  be  unfaithful;    and  this  acts  as  a 
dramatic  irony ;  she  does  not  see  herself  as  we  are  made 
to  do.     And  one  may  apply  to  her  the  speeches  of 
Ulysses  to  the  disaffected  heroes,  Achilles  and  Ajax; 
like  them,  she  is  cut  off  from  her  tribe  and  her  happi- 
ness as  much  by  folly  as  disloyalty,  and  more  than 
cither  by  *  the  bitter  disposition  of  the  time '  ;    from 
either  side  the  ironies  between  them  show  both  their 
helplessness  and  the  disasters  that  it  caused. 

Critics  have  said  that  though  noble  elements  exist  in 
Troilus  it  is  not  organised  round  them,  they  seem 
swamped  and  isolated;  a  rather  one-eyed  complaint; 
whether  or  no  this  is  a  moral  fault  it  is  the  point  and 

36 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

theory  of  the  play.    Its  central  and  most  moving  ex- 
pression is  Ulysses 

let  not  virtue  seek 
Remuneration  for  the  thing  it  was 

said  sincerely  enough  to  Achilles,  to  make  him  fight 
though  he  is  undervalued;  he  becomes  a  sympathetic 
figure  in  his  talk  about  this;  fight  he  docs,  and  kills 
Hector  so  unfairly  as  to  excite  horror.  (His  talk  has 
been  called  out  of  character ;  it  docs  not  aim  at  character 
but  at  manipulation  of  our  sympathies.)  We  have 
seen  Hector  spare  many  men  under  much  lesser  dis- 
advantages, but  he  must  not  expect  generosity  because 
he  is  generous ;  Troilus  has  told  him  that  his  generosity 
is  weakness,  and  Achilles  himself  that  it  is  a  form  of 
vanity.  This  same  irony  hangs  over  Troilus  and  his 
love  affairs;  it  is  the  two  great  speeches  about  time, 
this  to  Achilles  and  that  of  Troilus'  farewell  to  Cressida, 
which  force  us  to  compare  their  situations  though  in 
themselves  they  are  so  unlike.  He  has  objected  in  the 
council  scene  that  value  does  dwell  in  *  particular  will ' 
(the  phrase  echoes  through  the  play  in  perpetual  puzzles 
of  language) ;  not  in  the  object  loved  but  in  the  force 
that  takes  it  for  a  symbol ;  in  the  glory  of  possessing 
Helen,  not  in  Helen  herself;  in  what  his  love  for  Cressida 
was,  therefore,  not  in  a  remuneration  from  his  fidelity, 
and  his  disillusion  shows  not  that  his  statement  was 
wrong  but  that  he  must  take  its  consequences.  People 
complain  that  the  play  is  '  bitter  ' ;  it  is  not  to  be  praised 
for  bitterness  but  for  a  far-reaching  and  exhausting 
generosity,  which  is  piled  up  onto  die  pathos  of  Cressida. 
So  that  in  a  way,  though  he  puts  so  much  weight  on 
her  faults,  Shakespeare  despises  her  less  than  his  com- 
tators  have ;   except  indeed  in  a  scene  that  drives  home 

37 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  parallel.  After  all  her  outbursts  and  protestations, 
after  that  last  pathetic  question  turned  back  on  him  out 
of  curiosity,  *  my  lord,  will  you  be  true  ? '  (4  It  is  hard  to 
believe  even  that  people  like  you  arc ;  I  know  I  shall  not 
be,  but  perhaps  you  will ')  Crcssida  is  led  from  Troy, 
and  we  hear  die  blast  of  a  Greek  trumpet  marking 
truce;  the  truce  in  which  she  is  exchanged,  and  in 
which  Hector  by  chivalric  combat  defends  the  glory  of 
the  Trojan  ladies.  The  moment  before  she  arrives  at 
the  Greek  camp  the  same  blast  again  is  now  seen,  a 
hooting  satire,  being  blown  on  its  trumpet,  and  im- 
mediately she  prances  round  kissing  everybody;  she 
must  have  covered  the  ground  in  two  minutes ;  it  forces 
us  with  something  of  die  brutality  of  a  pun  to  see  with 
what  extreme  and  as  if  mechanical  buoyancy  she  has 
changed.  The  incident  is  nonsense,  surely,  as  character- 
study;  it  is  not  the  Crcssida  who  was  embarrassed 
by  her  own  tongue  in  the  love  scenes  who  could  achieve 
diis  change  of  front  without  a  brief  period  of  self- 
torture.  Shakespeare  indeed  is  always  willing  to  take 
the  dramatic  assumptions  wholeheartedly ;  all  his  people 
change  their  minds  on  the  stage  and  use  heightened 
language  where  the  rest  of  us  use  lapse  of  time ;  but  the 
reason  we  have  this  fearfully  striking  joke  about  it  here 
is  diat  Cressida  is  somehow  parallel  to  public  affairs  and 
this  is  her  one  public  occasion. 

People  sometimes  complain  about  Troilus  that  it 
contains  not  like  so  many  of  Shakespeare's  plays  one, 
but  two  unpleasant  characters,  as  who  should  say  '  I 
expect  a  dog  to  have  some  fleas,  but  these  are  too  many/ 
At  least  there  is  only  one  flea  to  each  story,  one  mocker 
each  to  love  and  heroism ;  I  do  not  know  whether 
this  reflection  is  any  comfort  to  the  complainers.    But 

38 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

when  Mr.  Robertson,  for  instance,  says  that  the  remarks 
of  Thersites  cannot  possibly  be  what  the  Bard  wrote 
or  wanted  (so  that  they  must  be  by  Chapman — as  far 
as  1  remember}  one  must  look  for  a  definite  answer; 
I  think  that  a  final  answer,  obtained  by  pursuing  rather 
queer  points  of  language,  is  that  the  verbal  ironies  in 
the  comic  character's  low  jokes  carry  on  the  thought  of 
both  plots  of  the  play.  It  is  one  of  the  strange  things, 
chiefly  about  Shakespeare,  but  in  some  degree  about 
most  Elizabethans,  that  this  is  not  irrelevant;  I  believe 
myself  what  the  notes  say  about  the  mad  talk  of  Ophelia, 
that  it  had  most  elaborate  connections  with  the  story, 
though  I  have  never  heard  a  modern  actress  make  it 
seem  anything  but  raving.  I  propose  to  look  at  a  pun 
on  general,  used  seven  times  in  this  play  and  seldom 
elsewhere,  for  which  the  superb  and  well-punctuated 
first  words  of  Thersites  act  as  a  sort  of  official  explana- 
tion ;  and  if  you  call  this  mere  verbal  fidgets,  I  reply 
that  one  source  of  the  unity  of  a  Shakespeare  play, 
however  brusque  its  handling  of  character,  is  this  co- 
herence of  its  subdued  puns. 

Ajax.  Thersites. 

Thersites.  Agamemnon,  how  if  he  had  Biles  (ful)  all  ouer 
generally. 

Ajax.  Thersites. 

Thersites.  And  those  Byles  did  run,  say  so ;  did  not  the 
General  run,  were  not  that  a  botchy  core  i 

Ajax.  Dog. 

Thersites.  Then  would  come  some  matter  from  him ;  I  sec 
none  now.  , 

The  irony  of  the  word  is  that  though  it  connects  the 
hero  to  the  people  it  implies  a  failure  of  his  rule ;  a 
general  commands  an  orderly  force  such  as  the  people 
ought  to  be,  but  the  general  is  a  mob.    The  core  of  the 

39 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

state  here  is  botchy  and  dissolving  into  the  primitive 
matter  of  chaos,  and  die  comparison  to  syphilis  is  an 
appeal  from  the  plot  about  heroism  to  the  plot  about 
love.  When  Thersites  next  uses  the  word  its  irony 
has  turned  against  him.  (He  is  railing  at  the  pride  of 
Ajax  when  chosen  to  fight  Hector.) 

I  said,  good-morrow  Ajax;  and  he  replyes,  thankes  Aga- 
memnon. What  think  you  of  this  man,  that  takes  me  for  the 
Generall  ?     He's  grown  a  very  landflsh,  languageless,  a  monster. 

There  is  too  much  rather  than  too  little  in  his  language. 
Thersites,  as  the  barking  dog,  the  critic,  is  the  general  to 
whom  excellence  is  caviare;  Ajax  is  the  monster,  *  not 
presented  in  all  love's  pageant,'  which  takes  one  general 
for  the  other.  And  the  real  monster  that  gibbers 
behind  that  lovely  phrase  of  Troilus  is  Pandarus's 
bone-ache. 

This  same  pun   is  put  to  solemn   uses  of  political 
theorising. 

The  specialty  of  rule  hath  been  neglected 

And  look,  how  many  Grecian  tents  do  stand 

Hollow  upon  the  plain,  so  many  hollow  factions. 

While  that  the  general  is  not  like  the  hive 

To  whom  the  foragers  shall  all  repair, 

What  honey  is  expected  ?   Degree  being  vizarded, 

The  unworthiest  shows  as  fairly  in  the  mask. 

Troilus'  last  words  seem  to  look  back  to  this : 

You  vile  abominable  tents 

That  proudly  pight  upon  our  Phrygian  plains, 

Let  Titan  rise  as  early  as  he  dare, 

I'll  through  and  through  you. 

It  is  no  use  stabbing  them ;  they  are  hollow  like  ghosts. 
Everything  is  dissolving  and  the  sun  itself  rises  as  a  titan 
against  heaven. 

40 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

The  general  is  given  the  personal  whom,  but  the 
state  is  being  personified ;  Ulysses  is  speaking  to  a  general, 
but  it  is  the  general  good  which  is  like  a  hive.  Shake- 
speare indeed  diought  that  the  hive  had  a  king,  but  not 
that  he  had  rational  means  of  control ;  the  hive  is  a 
symbol  both  of  absolute  regal  power  and  of  a  mysteri- 
ously self-regulating  social  order.  The  general  seems 
opposed  to,  but  may  repeat,  the  specialty  of  rule  (so  too 
die  opposite  key  phrase  particular  will) ;  and  there  is  the 
same  doubt  in  the  pun  on  mask.  For  degree  may  mean 
*  persons  of  quality  '  or  *  the  idea  of  social  hierarchy ' 
(the  rulers  or  the  whole  state) ;  the  mask  may  be  what 
covers  the  face  of  the  courtier,  or  the  symbolic  dance  of 
ordered  function  (or  the  dance  of  abandonment)  in 
which  the  whole  of  society  is  engaged.  Much  of  the 
language  of  Troilusy  I  think,  is  a  failure ;  it  makes  puzzles 
which  even  if  they  can  be  unravelled  cannot  be  felt  as 
poetry ;  but  even  so,  what  they  are  trying  for  is  a  pun 
of  this  sort  applying  bodi  to  the  hero  and  the  tribe. 

The  word  which  has  acquired  all  this  energy  (other 
uses  are  in  I.  hi.  321,  341 ;  V.  vi.  4)  is  brought  out  again 
for  the  central  joke  against  Cressida.  For  a  second 
time  we  hear  the  one  blast  of  the  trumpet  that  calls  a 
false  truce  and  a  sham  fight,  and  she  flounces  into  die 
Greek  camp : 

Agamemnon.  Most  dearly  [expensively?]  welcome  to  the 
Greeks,  dear  lady. 

Nestor.  Our  general  doth  salute  you  with  a  kiss. 

Ulysses  [who  made  the  last  speech  about  general].  Yet  is  the 
kindness  but  particular ; 

Twere  better  she  were  kissed  in  general. 

So  they  all  do.    It  is  one  of  the  crucial  points  of  contact 
between  the  two  themes  of  the  play. 

41 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Nor  is  it  only  the  puns  and  the  double  plot  which 
make  this  comparison  between  a  person  and  the  state, 
between  a  personal  situation  and  a  political  one. 

There  is  a  mystery,  with  whom  relation 
Durst  never  meddle,  in  the  soul  of  state 
Which  hath  an  operation  more  divine 
Than  tongue  or  pen  may  give  expressure  to. 

Phrases  forged  for  Mr.  W.  H.  (the  play  has  many  remin- 
iscences of  the  Sonnets)  are  ncre  given  to  the  Greek 
army.  It  may  be  only  to  frighten  Achilles  that  Ulysses 
so  firmly  makes  a  god  of  the  state  here,  but  the  play  is 
full  of  gods  who  arc  found  out.    Hector  tells  Troilus 

Tis  mad  idolatry 
To  make  the  service  greater  than  the  god 

but  he  dies  in  its  service,  whether  it  was  Helen  or  glory, 
and  Troilus  himself  makes  his  disillusion  a  political  (as 
well  as  a  cosmical)  matter. 

If  there  be  rule  in  unity  itself 

This  is  not  she  .  .  . 

Bifold  authority,  where  reason  can  revolt 

Without  perdition,  and  loss  assume  all  reason 

Without  revolt  .  .  . 

The  Bonds  of  heaven  are  slipped,  dissolved,  and  loosed. 

(It  is  the  answer  to  his  jibe  at  Helenus ;  *  you  fur  your 
gloves  with  reason,  brother  priest ').  We  are  forced 
here  to  connect  the  two  plots,  and  at  once  there  is  the 
universal  break-up  of  the  last  scenes ;  only  the  Colossus 
Pandarus  is  left  standing,  a  thundercloud  over  the 
wreckage  of  the  camps,  to  rain  down  Ins  bone-ache  in 
answer  to  the  prayers  of  Thcrsitcs. 

Such  an  identification  of  one  person  with  the  whole 
moral,  social,  and  at  last  physical  order,  was  the  standing 

42 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

device  of  the  metaphysicals ;  it  fits  in  very  easily  with 
the  '  tragic  king — comic  people '  convention,  and  I 
think  that  is  what  allowed  it  to  be  put  to  so  strange  and 
so  tragic  a  use  here. 

I  Hen.  IV is  a  plain  case  of  *  tragic  king-comic  people' ; 
this  made  a  solid  basis  on  which  to  plant  other  ideas. 
But  what  is  obvious  about  it  on  the  stage  is  true  of  the 
ideas  let  loose  by  the  double  plot;  the  parts  tend  to 
separate.  There  are  three  worlds  each  with  its  own 
hero ;  rebel  camp,  tavern,  and  court ;  chivalric  idealism, 
natural  gusto,  the  cautious  politician.  The  force  and 
irony  of  the  thing  depends  on  making  us  sympathise 
with  all  three  sides  so  that  we  are  baffled  when  they  meet ; 
this  makes  an  unmanageable  play,  and  I  think  is  only 
possible  because  the  prince  belongs  to  all  three  parties. 
Obviously  he  belongs  both  to  Falstaff 's  and  the  King's — 
he  is  very  like  his  father ;  the  same  arguments,  supported 
by  the  same  metaphors,  make  the  one  pretend  friendship 
with  Falstaff,  the  other  adopt  a  dignified  seclusion.  But 
when  he  meets  Hotspur  the  two  seem  alike,  and  probably 
Ernest  Jones  would  call  their  scenes  a  *  decomposition  ' 
of  one  person ;  Shakespeare  falsified  history  to  make  the 
two  splendid  creatures  the  same  age  and  set  them  killing 
each  other.  The  prince  is  the  go-between  who  can  talk 
their  own  language  to  each ;  *  'a  would  have  clipped 
bread  well ' ;  he  is  absorbed  into  the  world  of  Hotspur 
as  parasitically  as  into  that  of  Falstaff,  and  as  finally 
destroys  his  host  there. 

Something  very  curious  is  going  on  when  Falstaff  and 
Hotspur  meet.  The  great  scene  in  which  their  ideals  are 
opposed  to  one  anodier  shows  Douglas,  in  an  anticipation 
of  Macbeth  irrelevantly  stirring  to  the  imagination, 
searching  the  battlefield  for  Henry,  and  meeting  (it  is 

43 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  chronicle  series  in  little)  innumerable  simulacra,  a 
non-personal  budding  of  kings. 

my  name  is  Douglas, 
And  I  do  haunt  thee  in  the  battle  thus 
Because  some  tell  me  that  thou  art  a  king 

[the  king,  suggest  commentators,  intelligently]. 

Why  didst  thou  tell  me  that  thou  wert  a  king  ? 
Hotspur.  The  king  hath  many  marching  in  his  coats. 
Douglas.  Now,  by  my  sword,  I  will  kill  all  his  coats, 

I'll  murder  all  his  wardrobe,  piece  by  piece, 

Until  I  meet  the  king. 

Another  king.    They  grow  like  Hydra's  heads  ; 
I  am  the  Douglas,  fatal  to  all  those 
That  wear  those  colours  on  them  ;  what  art  thou 
That  countcrfeitest  the  person  of  a  king. 

Among  these  falling  and  phantom  kings  the  clown 
Falstaff  takes  his  tumble ;  the  stage  directions  insist  that 
he  is  *  killed  '  by  Douglas  at  the  same  moment  as  the 
prince  kills  Hotspur.  Like  inseparable  twins  the  hero's 
two  chief  rivals  fall  together;  Harry  has  both  parts  in 
his  wardrobe.  The  reigning  house  are  usurpers,  the 
clothes  of  kings  only  (nobody  doubts  that  is  what 
Douglas  meant  by  the  last  line  quoted) ;  and  that  is  why 
the  world  is  crawling  with  false  authorities  like  Falstaff. 

This  play  is  as  full  as  Troilus  (where  the  double  plot 
gives  more  reason  for  it)  of  that  curious  use  of  the 
language  of  love  about  fighting,  pointed  out  byWyndham 
Lewis,  which  one  cannot  call  a  peculiar  perversion  of 
Shakespeare's  now  that  it  has  been  accepted  by  so  many 
generations  as  a  superb  expression  of  the  poetry  of  war. 
Marlowe  does  not  strike  this  note,  diough  both  more 
pugnacious  and  more  homosexual,  and  though  he 
doesn't  Shakespeare  usually  gives  it  the  Marlowan  line. 

44 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

Perhaps  the  simplicity  of  that  style,  which  always  seems 
so  very  sure  of  the  grandeur  of  whatever  it  is  mentioning, 
had  always  seemed  to  Shakespeare  somehow  touching  and 
ill-considered.  (By  the  way,  supposing  this  is  true,  and 
supposing  e.g.  Mr.  Robertson's  tests  for  authorship  were 
genuinely  *  scientific/  they  would  the  more  certainly 
deceive  him.) 

Come,  let  me  taste  my  horse 
Which  is  to  bear  me  like  a  thunderbolt 
Against  the  bosom  of  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

Cousin,  I  think  thou  art  enamoured 
Of  his  follies 

yet  once  ere  night 
I  will  embrace  him  with  a  soldier's  arm 
That  he  shall  shrink  under  my  courtesy. 

Sound  all  the  lofty  instruments  of  war 
And  by  that  music  let  us  all  embrace. 

FalstafF  accepts  this  connection  with  the  same  twist  as 
Thersites ;  we  see  him  wandering  about  the  battlefield, 
cheering  on,  widi  obscene  approval,  the  groups  of  fighters. 
The  main  effect  is  to  take  the  dignity  out  of  die  rebels ; 
'war  is  only  anodicr  lust ;  Hotspur  is  as  wicked  as  Falstaff.' 

Fal.  Well  said  Hal,  to  it  Hal.    Nay  you  shall  finde  no  Boyes 
play  heerc,  I  can  tell  you. 

(Enter  Douglas,  he  fights  with  FalstarTe,  who  falls  down  as 
if  he  were  dead.    The  Prince  killcth  Pcrcie.) 

Hotspur  dies  after  being  allowed  a  few  grand  lines.    The 

prince's  remarks   about  the  two  rival  heroes  stretched 

before  him  are  then  arranged  to  apply  to  both,  by  a 

series  of  puns  applying  both  to  fatness  and  greatness. 

When  that  this  body  did  contain  a  spirit 
A  Kingdome  for  it  was  too  small  a  bound, 

this  earth  that  bears  thee  dead 
Bears  not  alive  so  stout  a  gentleman. 

45 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

We  are  forced  to  feel  seriously  here  about  lines  that  this 
hideously  clever  author  writes  frankly  as  a  parody; 
the  joke  turns  back  from  Falstaff  against  Hotspur.  For 
FalstafFhas  already  made  this  joke  his  own. 

Fal.  Hal,  if  thou  see  me  down  in  the  battle,  and  bestride  me, 
so ;  tis  a  point  of  friendship. 
Prince.  None  but  a  Colossus  can  do  thee  that  friendship. 

Say  thy  prayers,  and  farewell. 

Falstaff  hands  the  prince  the  joke  readymade ;  what  he 
means  is  that  he  is  too  great  for  the  prince  not  to  betray 
him.  Indeed  the  prince  implies  that  he  is  a  traitor  like 
Hotspur  (in  the  joke  about  his  '  deer  *  being  disem- 
bowelled) as  he  leaves  the  bodies  together. 

Falstaff  then  jumps  up  and  proceeds  to  pluck  bright 
honour  from  the  pale-faced  moon;  wounds  the  dead 
Hotspur  euphemistically  in  the  '  thigh '  (again  the 
punishment  of  a  traitor)  and  claims  the  reward  for  having 
killed  him.  The  words  of  the  prince  to  his  brother,  as 
.  he  comes  back,  again  apply  to  John  Falstaff  as  well  as 
another  hero. 

Conic,  brother  John,  full  bravely  hast  thou  fleshed 
Thy  maiden  sword. 

Hotspur  is  the  most  attractive  of  Shakespeare's  soldiers ; 
no  man  anything  like  him  in  the  tragedies  has  such  a 
death-scene.  The  double-plot  mediod  is  carrying  a 
fearful  strain  here. 

In  Drydcn's  Marriage  h  la  Mode  the  two  plots  are  no 
less  sharply  different,  and  on  the  face  of  it  there  is  much 
less  *  criticism  of  life,'  much  less  of  the  strength  that 
could  unite  them.  Heroic  Tragedy  and  the  Comedy  of 
Manners  had  been  worked  out;  each  needed  to  be 
judged  by  its  proper  rules;  it  seems  odd  that  diey 
didn't  destroy  each  other.     Indeed  Cibber  used  to  make 

46 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

'  regular  '  comedies,  when  this  sense  of  convention  had 
become  a  real  tyranny,  byjamming  together  two  Restora- 
tion sub-plots.  Dryden  apologised  for  using  the  two 
together  in  the  preface  to  his  Troilus ;  it  was  the  audience, 
not  the  theorists,  that  had  the  sense  to  demand  it. 

The  clash  makes  both  conventions  less  unreal ;  Saints- 
bury  made  the  essential  point,  diat  the  heroic  part  shows 
the  comic  heroes  are  not  mere  *  carpet  knights/     All 
this  Restoration  insolence  presumed  courage,  and  was 
easier  when  it  could  be  shown  casually.     Yet  it  has  a 
more  searching  effect,  almost  like  parody,  by  making 
us  see  they  are  unreal ;   the  heroic  characters'  belief  that 
they  are  of  more  than  human  breed  has  a  certain  infantile 
petulance,  as  when  Palmyra  prefers  to  die  than  to  dis- 
agree with  a  father  she  has  just  met,  the  comic  characters' 
experimental  wish  to  satisfy  all  parties  comfortably  has 
a  certain  pimpish  complacence,  not  least  when  they 
decide  to  keep  the  virtue  they  despise.    (The  play  connects 
the  one  frame  of  mind  with  incest,  the  other  with  sodomy 
— the  comic  women  dress  up  as  boys,  the  princely  lovers 
seem  always  to  have  thought  they  were  brother  and 
sister.)    The  extraordinary  use  of  the  word  die  is  a  crucial 
point.    The  bawdy  sense  is  officially  insisted  on  by  that 
excellent  song,  *  Now  die,  my  Alexis,  and  I  will  die 
too/  which  is  placed  not  among  the  comic  people  but 
in  mockery  of  a  jealous  heroic  person,  one  of  those 
always  ready  to  die  for  a  point  of  honour.    Dryden  had 
no  feeling  that  the  parody  in  the  word  was  a  danger  to 
his  heroics,  which  arc  coarse  or  solid  enough  to  use  it. 

Oh,  there's  a  joy  to  melt  in  her  embrace, 
Dissolve  in  pleasure, 
And  make  the  gods  curse  immortality 
That  so  they  could  not  die. 

47 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Melantha's  slang  use  of  it  is  at  bottom  insolent ;    '  of 
course  I  don't  really  feel  these  sentiments,  I  pretend  them 
because  I  am  refined.    An  absurd  enough  exaggeration 
may  make  this  point  clear  even  to  you/    Clashes  are 
arranged  between  this  and  the  heroic  invocation  of 
death,  which  is  also  an  exaggeration  to  fix  a  sentiment. 
Mel.  .  .  .  how  he  looks,  madam !   now  he's  no  prince,  he  is 
the  strangest  figure  of  a  man. 
Palm.  Away,  impertinent !  my  dear  Leonidas. 
Leo.  My  dear  Palmyra. 
Palm.  Death  shall  never  part  us ;  my  destiny  is  yours. 

(He  is  led  away  to  execution.) 
Mel.  Impertinent !    Oh  I  am  the  most  unfortunate  person  this 
day  breathing.  .  .  .  Let  me  die,  but  I'll  follow  her  to  my  death, 
till  I  make  my  peace. 

Peace  it  would  be.    Leonidas  himself  uses  her  phrase. 
Keep  me  from  saying  that,  which  misbecomes  a  son, 
But  let  me  die,  before  I  sec  this  done. 

And  so  far  from  making  the  heroic  use  of  it  ridiculous 
this  gives  a  certain  pathetic  beauty  to  its  use  by  Melantha. 
Stay,  let  me  read  my  catalogue— suite,  figure,  chagrin, 
naivete,  and  let  me  die,  for  the  parenthesis  of  all. 

If  you  count  in  the  bawdy  sense  it  is  a  fairly  complete 
catalogue  of  the  sentiments  of  both  worlds  of  the  play. 
Swinburne  said  of  The  Changeling  that  *  die  underplot 
from  which  it  most  absurdly  and  unluckily  derives  its 
tide  is  very  stupid,  rather  coarse,  and  almost  vulgar/ 
after  which  it  is  no  use  saying,  as  he  does,  that  it  is 
Middleton  and  Rowley's  greatest  play,  '  a  work  which 
should  suffice  to  make  either  name  immortal ' ;  the 
thing  might  have  good  passages  but  would  be  a  bad  play. 
And  however  disagreeable  the  comic  part  may  be  it  is 
of  no  use  to  ignore  it ;  it  is  woven  into  the  tragic  part 
very   thoroughly.     Not  that   this   interferes   with   the 

48 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

accepted  view  that  the  comic  part  is  by  Rowley  and  most 
of  the  tragic  part  by  Middleton;  the  sort  of  unity 
required  depends  on  the  order  of  the  scenes,  which  they 
would  presumably  draw  up  together,  and  on  ironies 
which  they  could  work  out  separately. 

The  chief  reason  why  modern  critics  have  passed  over 
the  comic  part  is  that  it  forces  one  to  take  the  unem- 
barrassed Elizabethan  view  of  lunatics,  and  though  still 
alive  in  the  villages  this  seems  mere  brutality  to  the 
cultivated.  They  were  hearty  jokes,  to  be  treated  like 
animals,  and  yet  were  possessed  by,  or  actually  were, 
fairies  or  evil  spirits;  they  had  some  positive  extra- 
human  quality ;  they  might  say  things  profoundly  true. 
No  doubt  it  was  crude  to  keep  a  lunatic  as  a  pet,  but  we 
may  call  Shakespeare  and  Velasquez  in  evidence  that  the 
interest  was  not  as  trivial  as  it  was  brutal ;  and  though 
no  other  Elizabethan  could  write  the  part  of  the  madman-  [/ 
critic  as  Shakespeare  could,  so  that  their  lunatics  are  less 
pleasant  than  his,  this  was  chiefly  for  lack  of  his  surrealist 
literary  technique ;  they  could  assume  the  same  attitude 
to  lunatics  in  the  audience  as  he  could.  People  nowadays 
can  swallow  the  idea  in  terms  of  painting  or  metaphor 
but  to  feel  it  at  first  hand  about  a  realistic  stage  lunatic 
is  too  much.  Certainly  if  the  chorus  of  imbeciles  here 
was  merely  convenient  or  merely  funny  the  effect  would 
be  disgusting;  but  the  madhouse  dominates  every 
scene;  every  irony  refers  back  to  it;  that  is  why  the 
play  is  so  much  nearer  Webster  than  either  of  its  parts. 

Though  their  tones  are  different  the  two  plots  are  very 
alike;  in  both  the  heroine  has  been  married  for  social 
convenience  to  a  man  she  docs  not  love,  so  that  there  is 
a  case  for  her  if  she  cuckolds  him.  In  the  comic  story  she 
gets  enough  fun  out  of  her  lovers  to  keep  up  her  spirits 

D  49 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

without  being  unfaithful  to  him  even  in  detail;    no 

doubt  this  is  coarse  and  flat  enough,  but  the  contrast  is 

not  pointless.    Beside  the  tragic  characters  she  is  sane; 

living  among  madmen  she  sees  the  need  to  be.    This 

in  itself  compares  the  madmen  to  the  tragic  sinners,  and 

a  close  parallel  is  used  to  drive  it  home.     The  idea  of 

the  changeling,  a  child  stolen  into  the  fairies'  world,  a 

fairy  child  replaced  for  it,  makes  you  feel  diat  the  shock 

of  seeing  into  a  mad  mind  is  dangerous ;   it  may  snatch 

you  to  itself.    This  shock  is  in  all  the  discoveries  of  the 

play.     When  Antonio,  disguised  as  a  lunatic,   makes 

love  to  Isabella,  she  breaks  after  three  lines  of  his  rhetoric 

into  hearty  laughter :    *  you're  a  fine  fool  indeed  .  .  . 

a  parlous  fool ' ;  he  is  a  changeling  the  other  way  round, 

she  finds,  but  that  is  the  same  thing ;   he  may  snatch  her 

into  his  world.    It  is  in  the  next  scene,  so  that  we  are 

forced  to  compare  them,  that  we  have  the  discovery 

the  critics  have  praised  so  justly  in  isolation  : 

Why  tis  impossible  thou  canst  be  so  wicked 

Or  shelter  such  a  cunning  cruelty 

To  make  his  death  the  murderer  of  my  honour. 

The  real  changeling  from  which  the  play  *  derives  its 
tide  '  is  De  Flores. 

One  need  not  look  at  all  die  jokes  about  the  jealous 
madhouse  keeper ;  they  simply  repeat  that  love  is  a  mad- 
ness. There  is  a  more  striking  parallel  between  De 
Flores  and  the  subordinate  keeper  Lollio,  who  has  some 
claim  to  be  counted  among  the  fools.  He  demands 
*  his  share  '  from  Isabella  as  a  price  for  keeping  his  mouth 
shut  about  Antonio,  just  as  De  Flores  docs  from  Beatrice. 
This  is  not  irony  but  preparation  ('  device  prior  to 
irony ') ;  coming  in  the  scene  after  De  Flores  commits 
the  murder  and  before  he  demands  his  reward  it  acts 

50 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

as  a  proof  of  Isabella's  wisdom  and  a  hint  of  the  future 
of  Beatrice.  Isabella  direatens  to  make  Antonio  cut 
Lollio's  throat,  which  does  not  impress  him ;  when  the 
tragic  scene  they  foreshadow  is  over  we  find  them  smack- 
ing the  threats  at  each  other  as  casually  as  ever.  I  don't 
say  that  this  is  delicate,  but  it  is  a  relief ;  Isabella  is  a 
very  impressive  creature;  and  the  assumption  in  the 
tragic  part  that  Alsemero  will  take  his  maid's  virginity 
without  discovering  she  is  not  his  wife  is  more  really 
brutal  than  anything  in  the  asylum  scenes. 

The  two  stories  get  their  connection  of  plot  from  the 
two  lovers  of  Isabella,  who  leave  Beatrice's  court  to  be 
disguised  as  madmen  and  are  brought  back  widi  other 
madmen  to  amuse  it  in  the  masque  at  her  wedding. 
This  was  not  merely  a  fine  show  on  the  stage  but  die 
chief  source  of  the  ideas  of  the  play.  The  antimasque 
at  a  great  wedding,  considered  as  subhuman,  stood  for 
the  insanity  of  disorder  to  show  marriage  as  necessary, 
considered  as  the  mob,  ritually  mocked  the  couple  (for 
being  or  for  not  being  faithful,  innocent,  etc.),  both  to 
appease  those  who  might  otherwise  mock  and  to  show 
that  the  marriage  was  too  strong  to  be  hurt  by  mockery. 
We  have  been  shown  the  chief  thing  die  madmen  of 
the  play  stand  for,  when  Isabella  seemed  likely  to  take 
Antonio  seriously. 

(Cries  of  madmen  arc  heard  without,  like  those  of  birds 
and  beasts.) 
Lollio.  Cuckoo,  cuckoo. 
Antonio.  "What  are  these  ? 
Isabella.  Of  fear  enough  to  part  us.  ' 

Fear  parted  Beatrice  from  Alsemero,  the  husband  won 
falsely;  the  madmen  brought  in  to  be  mocked  form, 
for  her  as  for  Isabella,  an  appalling  chorus  of  mockers, 

51 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

and  assimilate  her  to  themselves.  The  richness  of  the 
thought  here  does  not  come  from  isolated  thinking  but 
from  a  still  hearty  custom ;  to  an  audience  which  took 
the  feelings  about  a  marriage  masque  and  a  changeling  for 
granted  the  ideas  would  arise  directly  from  the  two  plots. 
So  the  effect  of  the  vulgar  asylum  scenes  is  to  surround 
the  characters  with  a  herd  of  lunatics,  howling  outside 
in  the  night,  one  step  into  whose  company  is  irretriev- 
able; looking  back  to  the  stock  form,  this  herd  is  the 
*  people  *  oC  which  the  tragic  characters  are  *  heroes.' 
Beatrice  too  becomes  a  changeling ; 

I  that  am  of  your  blood  was  taken  from  you 

she  tells  her  father.  Morally  a  child  such  as  the  fairies 
can  steal,  and  fearing  Dc  Florcs  as  a  goblin,  she  puts  him 
to  a  practical  use  to  escape  him  ;  he  could  then  steal  her ; 
she  must  realise  his  way  of  feeling  and  be  dragged  into 
his  world.  It  is  the  untruth  of  the  appeal  that  makes  it  so 
terrible,  and  the  hint  of  the  changeling  idea  given  by  the 
other  plot  that  makes  us  accept  it.  As  a  finale  this  con- 
nection is  at  last  made  obvious ;  the  venomous  courage 
of  De  Florcs  is  united  to  the  howling  of  the  madmen. 

Bea.  Alscmcro,  I'm  a  stranger  to  your  bed. 

Your  bed  was  cozened  on  the  nuptial  night, 

For  which  your  false  bride  died. 
Als.  Diaphanta  ? 
De  F.  Yes,  and  the  while  I  coupled  with  your  mate 

At  barley-break  ;  now  we  are  left  in  hell. 
Als.  We  are  all  there,  it  circumscribes  us  here. 

We  have  heard  about  barley-break  before.  *  Catch 
there,  catch  the  last  couple  in  hell  *  scream  the  lunatics 
in  the  darkness  at  the  back  of  the  stage,  when  Antonio 
discloses  his  plot  to  Isabella;  the  two  parts  are  united, 
and  they  are  all  there  together. 

52 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 


II 


I  shall  add  here  some  remarks  about  irony  and  dramatic 
ambiguity,  arising  out  of  the  double  plots,  and  only 
connected  with  pastoral  so  far  as  they  describe  a  process 
of  putting  the  complex  into  the  simple.  If  the  foregoing 
account  of  the  double  plots  is  at  all  true  the  process  seems 
to  leave  room  for  critical  theorising. 

There  are  two  elements  in  the  type  of  joke  made  by 
Bim  and  Bom  or  Parolles.  In  part  you  treat  the  reader 
as  an  object  of  psychology  and  satisfy  two  of  his  impulses ; 
in  part  you  make  him  feel,  as  a  rational  being,  that  he 
can  rely  on  your  judgment  because  you  know  both  sides 
of  the  case.  But  this  is  not  in  itself  irony ;  you  do  not 
appeal  to  his  judgment  and  he  need  not  realise  what 
you  are  doing.  There  is  a  good  crude  example  in  The 
Atheist's  Tragedy.  Castabclla  has  been  forced  to  marry 
the  son  of  D'Amville,  who  has  sent  her  lover  Charlemont 
away;  the  son  is  dying,  and  too  weak  to  consummate; 
she  speaks  of  this  as  her  only  comfort  in  affliction. 
Levidulcia,  in  the  next  words  of  the  play,  tries  to  seduce 
Sebastian,  and  when  he  leaves  her  walks  off  with  the 
servant  Fresco,  with  the  reflection 

Lust  is  a  spirit,  which  whosoe'er  cloth  raise 
The  first  man  to  encounter  boldly,  lays. 

If  you  had  been  thinking  this  before,  and  feeling  that 
CastabehVs  chastity  was  a  little  extravagant  and  heroical, 
then  the  contrast  would  show  that  the  audior  knew  it 
already ;  it  is  not  that  he  is  ignorant  of  human  nature, 
but  that  Castabclla  really  was  very  chaste.  And  again 
it  is  in  part  a  less  rational  matter  of  satisfying  impulses ; 
after  you  have  made  an  imaginative  response  of  one 

53 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

kind  to  a  situation  you  satisfy  more  of  what  is  included 
in  your  own  nature,  you  are  more  completely  interested 
in  the  play,  if  the  chief  other  response  possible  is  called 
out  too.  The  two  may  seem  inextricable ;  at  its  crudest 
the  device  has  something  of  the  repose  of  wisdom  as 
well  as  the  ease  of  humour.  But  clearly  Mac's  Wife's 
parody  was  more  *  psychological '  than  rational. 

Also  the  device  sets  your  judgment  free  because  you 
need  not  identify  yourself  firmly  with  any  one  of  the 
characters  (the  drama  of  personality  is  liable  to  boil  down 
to  this) ;  a  situation  is  repeated  for  quite  different  char- 
acters, and  this  puts  the  main  interest  in  the  situation 
not  the  characters.  Thus  the  effect  of  having  two  old 
men  with  ungrateful  children,  of  different  sorts,  is  to 
make  us  generalise  the  theme  of  Lear  and  feel  that  whole 
classes  of  children  have  become  unfaithful,  all  nature  is 
breaking  up,  as  in  the  storm.  The  situation  is  made 
something  valuable  in  itself,  perhaps  for  reasons  hardly 
realised ;  it  can  work  on  you  like  a  myth. 

One  would  expect  tins  to  come  naturally  to  the 
Elizabethans  because  their  taste  must  partly  have  been 
formed  on  those  huge  romances  which  run  on  as  great 
tapestries  of  incident  without  changing  or  even  much 
stressing  character,  and  are  echoed  in  the  Arcadia  and 
Faery  Queen ;  any  one  incident  may  be  interesting,  but 
the  interest  of  their  connection  must  depend  on  a  sort  of 
play  of  judgment  between  varieties  of  the  same  situation. 
Thus  there  is  a  lady  in  the  Arcadia,  unnamed,  who  induces 
the  king  her  husband  to  suspect  of  treason  the  prince  her 
stepson ;  a  magnificent  paragraph  explains  all  the  devices 
by  which  this  was  achieved.  Twenty  folio  pages  later, 
after  some  one  has  told  another  story,  the  knights  come 
to  the  castle  of  a  queen  called  Andromana,  who  tries  to 

54 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

seduce  them  and  finally  allows  them  to  joust  for  the 
pleasure  of  watching,  by  which  means  they  escape.  It 
is  with  pleasure  and  some  interest  that  one  finds,  on 
considering  who  her  relations  are,  that  this  is  the  same 
lady,  but  it  is  quite  unimportant;  in  both  she  is  only 
developed  enough  to  fill  the  situation.  Bianca  in 
Women  Beware  Women  is  treated  very  like  this,  only 
more  surprisingly;  she  is  first  the  poor  man's  modest 
wife,  dien  the  Duke's  grandiose  and  ruthless  mistress; 
the  idea  of  *  development '  is  irrelevant  to  her.  Nor  is 
this  crude  or  even  unlifelike ;  it  is  the  tragic  idea  of  the 
play.  She  had  chosen  love  in  a  cottage  and  could  stick 
to  it,  but  once  seduced  by  the  Duke  she  was  sure  to 
become  a  different  person ;  what  is  '  developed '  is  a 
side  of  her  that  she  had  suppressed  till  then  altogether. 
The  system  of  *  construction  by  scenes  '  which  allows 
of  so  sharp  an  effect  clearly  makes  the  scenes,  the  incidents, 
stand  out  as  objects  in  themselves,  to  be  compared  even 
when  they  are  not  connected. 

The  Levidulcia  example,  because  absurdly  simple, 
may  be  taken  another  way ;  the  two  responses  here  are 
so  sharply  opposed  that  a  representation  of  one  involves 
a  sort  of  negative  notion  of  the  other.  The  more 
interesting  situations  arise  when  the  two  sets  of  people 
in  the  same  situation  act  differently  rather  than  in  two 
ways  already  fixed  as  opposites ;  here  after  all  the  contrast 
is  mainly  designed  to  make  Levidulcia  absurdly  wicked 
and  cynical,  one  of  the  Atheists  that  cause  the  Tragedy. 
A  low  member  of  the  audience,  however,  might' give 
an  ironical  cheer,  meaning  *  she  is  the  other  half  of  the 
truth.'  I  should  call  this  version  the  *  device  prior  to 
irony,'  since  it  does  not  imply  a  judgment ;  it  is  clearly 
at  the  back  of  an  ironical  joke,  and  when  alone  carries 

55 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

something  of  the  richness  of  a  joke  though  not  its 
surprise.  This  notion  seems  important  for  dealing  with 
double  plots,  where  there  is  a  great  deal  of  dramatic 
irony  which  need  hardly  be  noticed  and  has  no  sharp 
1  point ' ;  it  gets  a  strong  effect  merely  by  making  you 
feel  there  is  '  a  great  deal  in  *  the  situation.  To  under- 
stand this  one  needs  a  wider  notion  of  irony,  and  I  shall 
now  pursue  for  a  time  off  stage. 

An  irony  has  no  point  unless  it  is  true,  in  some  degree, 
in  both  senses ;  for  it  is  imagined  as  part  of  an  argument ; 
what  is  said  is  made  absurd,  but  it  is  what  the  opponent 
might  say.  There  may  be  an  obscure  connection  here 
with  the  reason  why  critics  who  agree  about  the  degree 
of  merit  of  the  Jew  of  Malta  can  disagree  about  whether 
or  not  it  is  a  joke,  why  so  much  of  Handel  can  become 
funny  without  ceasing  to  be  beautiful.  It  is  not  the  joke 
that  is  fundamental  but  the  conflict,  and  there  is  something 
like  a  conflict  in  the  maintenance  of  a  satisfying  order. 

Would  you  keep  your  pearls  from  tramplers, 
Weigh  the  license,  weigh  the  banns ; 
Mark  my  song  upon  your  samplers, 
Wear  it  on  your  knots  and  Fans. 

It  is  very  hard  to  know  what  Smart  himself  felt  about 
this  excellent  verse.  There  must  be  some  sort  of  joke 
in  the  idea  of  the  young  lady  flaunting  a  fan  with  *  weigh 
the  banns '  on  it,  and  striking  terror  through  the  ball- 
room, but  the  joke  may  be  against  banns  or  fans.  (The 
advice  was  not  too  fantastic;  the  Beggar's  Opera  songs 
were  put  on  fans.)  The  song  is  about  a  conflict  between 
delight  in  the  courageous  trivialities  of  pleasure  and  terror 
of  the  forces  a  triviality  may  let  loose ;  there  is  too  little 
doubt  of  its  force  for  a  doubt  about  its  *  sincerity/ 
Either  a  conscious  overstatement  was  meant  to  add  to 

56 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

the  courage,  and  so  the  gaiety,  of  the  pleasure,  or  the 
underlying  terror  of  Smart's  melancholia  became  too 
strong  for  the  gaiety  of  the  form ;  these  are  two  sides 
of  the  same  thing,  and  yet  whichever  you  take  there  is 
an  irony  against  the  other.  Any  mutual  comparison 
between  people  who  would  judge  differendy  has  a  latent 
irony  of  this  sort,  if  only  because  i£  it  is  the  material 
from  which  either  irony  could  be  made. 

To  do  this  on  the  stage  might  be  regarded  as  combining 
the  normal  halves  of  the  double  plot  into  one.  The 
quality  Mr.  Eliot  described  in  Marlowe  and  Jonson 
seems  to  depend  on  it;  Restoration  heroic  gives  more 
obvious  if  more  puzzling  examples.  The  reason  why 
the  plays  arc  satisfying  though  so  unreal  is  that  they 
are  so  close  to  their  parodies ;  the  mood  of  parody  is 
hardly  under  the  surface,  only  as  it  were  officially 
ignored.  Morat  will  not  allow  Nourmahal  to  kill 
Aurungzcbc : 

Nouhm.  What  am  I,  that  you  dare  to  bind  my  hand  t 
So  low,  I've  not  a  murder  at  command ! 

How  bitter,  how  belittling,  how  destructive  of  the  heroic 
attitude,  this  line  might  be  in  Pope ;  and  yet  the  same 
feeling  here  somehow  makes  the  reality  of  its  dignity. 
The  sentiment  and  the  *  pseudo-parody  to  disarm 
criticism,'  usually  separated  into  the  two  plots,  are 
combined  in  one. 

Here  the  effect  is,  I  suppose,  known  to  be  a  clash,  felt 
to  be  odd,  by  the  author,  but  the  same  thing  may  be 
done  without  any  suggestion  of  irony.  Swinburne's 
Before  a  Crucifix  gets  all  its  beauty  of  metaphor  from  the 
Christian  ideas  it  sets  out  to  destroy,  and  its  rhetoric  is 
no  less  clear  and  strong  when  you  have  noticed  the  fact. 
The  whole  point  of  Housman's  Last  Poems,  xxvii.,  is  to 

57 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

deny  the  Pathetic  Fallacy,  to  say  that  man  is  alone  and 
has  no  sympathy  from  Nature ;  its  method  is  to  assume 
the  Pathetic  Fallacy  as  a  matter  of  course. 

The  diamond  tears  adorning 

Thy  low  mound  on  the  lea, 
These  are  the  tears  of  morning, 

That  weeps,  but  not  for  thee. 

It  may  weep  for  pains  reassuringly  similar  to  those  of 
humanity,  whether  consciously  or  not,  or  actually  for 
those  of  man  though  not  of  one  individual.  That  the 
dew  might  not  be  tears  at  all  the  poetry  cannot  imagine, 
and  tins  clash  conveys  with  great  pathos  and  force  a 
sense  that  the  position  of  man  in  the  world  is  extraordin- 
ary, hard  even  to  conceive.  Dr.  Richards  in  Science  and 
Poetry  said  that  this  trick  was  played  in  order  to  hide 
facts  the  poet  pretended  to  accept,  and  no  doubt  it 
often  is,  but  I  can  see  no  weakness  in  its  use  here.  That 
excellent  story  in  Hugh  Kingsmill's  Frank  Harris  about 
the  meeting  with  Professor  Housman  shows  how  mis- 
leading his  irony  can  be,  and  how  excellent  the  poetry 
remains  after  you  have  been  misled ;  it  seems  normal 
to  this  sort  of '  perfect '  verse  that,  because  so  much  has 
been  polished  away  from  the  original  feeling,  it  will 
satisfy  a  great  variety  of  feelings,  and  because  of  its  per- 
fection of  *  form  '  will  attract  them. 

The  ironies  I  have  quoted  are  clearly  very  different 
from  that  of  Jonathan  Wildy  which  appeals  fiercely  and 
singly  to  the  readers' judgment,  but  I  think  they  are  only 
near  the  other  end  of  a  scale ;  and  a  scale  on  which  no 
irony  occupies  only  one  point.  It  is  a  commonplace 
that  irony  is  a  dangerous  weapon  because  two-edged, 
so  that  Defoe  was  arrested  by  his  own  party,  and  that 
there  are  usually  partial  ways  of  enjoying  an  irony,  so 

58 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

that  Gulliver  makes  a  book  for  children.  I  shall  take  a 
comfortable  example  where  one  can  see  this  at  work. 

Fish  say,  they  have  their  stream  or  pond, 
But  is  there  anything  beyond  ? 
This  life  cannot  be  all,  they  swear, 
For  how  unpleasant,  if  it  were  .  .  . 
Oh  never  fly  conceals  a  hook, 
Fish  say,  in  the  eternal  brook  ; 
But  more  than  mundane  weeds  are  there, 
And  mud,  celestially  fair ; 
Fat  caterpillars  drift  around, 
And  Paradisal  grubs  are  found ; 
Unfiding  moths,  immortal  flies, 
And  the  worm  that  never  dies. 

I  take  it  many  people  like  this  playful  thing  by  Rupert 
Brooke  as  making  fish  seem  vain  (touchingly  absurd) 
but  otherwise  just  like  people  (to  try  to  imagine  them  as 
fish  makes  the  universe  seem  inhuman,  indifferent  to 
people) ;  they  feci  good  from  sympathising  with  fish, 
and  agreeably  superior  to  them  because  we  are  right 
about  heaven  and  fish  wrong.  ('  Anyway  it  is  not  true 
that  fish  talk  like  this,  so  the  poem  is  not  serious,  and 
why  should  one  read  cynicism  where  there  is  so  much 
tenderness  ? ')  A  later  stage  would  recognise  the  scepti- 
cism about  human  knowledge  but  take  it  as  an  essentially 
'  poetical '  mood,  Poe's  '  tone  of  melancholy  * ;  a  false 
pretence  of  humility,  like  pastoral,  designed  only  to  give 
strength.  This  too  does  not  find  it  a  shock  to  theology ; 
indeed  finds  in  its  readiness  to  conceive  doubt  something 
of  the  ease  of  certainty.  I  should  say  that  both  ,these 
pleasant  interpretations  were  active  in  the  author's  mind 
and  a  source  of  the  courage  of  the  poem's  gaiety ;  the 
tone  of  banter  seems  even  to  imply  some  sense  of  teasing 
his  audience  with  the  possible  interpretations,  or  laughing 

59 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

at  them  for  accepting  the  pleasant  ones,  like  the  fish. 
Not  that  the  poem  is  unusually  subtle;  this  sort  of 
analysis  would  apply  to  quite  crude  work. 

It  is  the  same  machinery,  in  the  fearful  case  of  Swift, 
that  betrays  not  consciousness  of  the  audience  but  a 
doubt  of  which  he  may  himself  have  been  unconscious. 
*  Everything  spiritual  and  valuable  has  a  gross  and 
revolting  parody,  very  similar  to  it,  with  the  same 
name.  Only  unremitting  judgment  can  distinguish 
between  them ' ;  he  set  out  to  simplify  the  work  of 
judgment  by  giving  a  complete  set  of  obscene  puns  for 
it.  The  conscious  aim  was  the  defence  of  the  Established 
Church  against  the  reformers'  Inner  Light;  only  the 
psycho-analyst  can  wholly  applaud  the  result.  Mixed 
with  his  statement,  part  of  what  he  satirised  by  pretending 
(too  convincingly)  to  believe,  the  source  of  his  horror, 
was  *  everything  spiritual  is  really  material ;  Hobbes  and 
the  scientists  have  proved  this ;  all  religion  is  really  a 
perversion  of  sexuality. ' 

The  language  plays  into  his  hands  here,  because  the 
spiritual  words  are  all  derived  from  physical  metaphors ; 
as  he  saw  again  and  again  how  to  do  this  the  pleasure  of 
ingenuity  must  have  become  a  shock  to  faith.  Spirit  in 
English  is  mixed  with  the  chemical  sense — '  the  profounder 
chemists  inform  us  that  the  strongest  spirits  may  be 
extracted  from  human  flesh  '  (the  fanatics  are  lustful) 
and  with  its  special  sense  of  alcohol  (intoxicated  with  the 
spirit,  the  fanatics  are  drunk) ;  its  root  derivation  is  from 
wind  or  breath  (inspired  by  the  breath  of  God  or  the 
wind  of  the  spirit  the  fanatics  are  windbags,  and  for 
special  contempt  may  be  told  they  are  farting,  as  in 
Ernest  Jones  and  the  Vedas).  In  a  state  of  *  enthusiasm ' 
they  are  *  possessed  '  by  devils  or  an  animal  impulse ; 

60 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

they  ought  to  possess  it.  *  Beside  themselves '  with 
ecstasy  they  are  mad.  When  *  profound,'  being  deep, 
they  are  low,  being  dark,  they  are  senseless,  or  dropping 
they  perform  a  bathos.  When  '  sublime/  being  airy, 
they  are  unsubstantial  (the  spiritual  is  a  delusion),  being 
high,  they  are  unsafe  or  become  the  mob  in  the  gallery. 
There  was  no  word  with  winch  some  such  trick  could 
not  be  played. 

It  worked  as  well  for  literary  criticism;  there,  too, 
faith  must  repress  the  pride  of  reason,  and  in  a  given  case 
must  rely  on  the  mysterious  act  of  judgment.  There, 
too,  delicacy  had  no  safety  but  to  insult  the  crowd. 
Pope  said  this  very  charmingly  (to  the  fury  of  his 
nineteenth-century  editor)  when  asked  to  reconcile 
Horace  and  Longinus,  to  reconcile  *  the  true  sublime 
tin-ills  and  transports  the  reader '  with 

let  not  each  gay  turn  thy  fancy  move 
For  fools  admire,  but  men  of  sense  approve. 

'  Longinus'  remark  was  truth,  but  like  certain  truths  of 
more  importance,  it  required  assent  from  faith,  without 
the  evidence  of  demonstration.'  Swift  had  not  the  light 
touch  required  for  this  sort  of  faith. 

I  aesire  of  those  whom  the  learned  among  posterity  will  appoint 
as  commentators  upon  this  elaborate  treatise,  that  they  will 
proceed  with  great  caution  upon  certain  dark  points  wherein  all 
who  are  not  vere  adepti  may  be  in  danger  to  form  rash  and  hasty 
conclusions,  especially  in  some  mysterious  paragraphs,  where 
certain  arcana  are  joined  for  brevity  sake,  which  in  the  operation 
must  be  divided.  And  I  am  certain  that  future  sons  of  art  will 
return  large  thanks  to  my  memory  for  so  grateful,  so  useful  an 
innuendo. 

They  may  show  caution  by  searching  for  the  meaning 
or  by  not  telling  it.     First  the  arcana  are  what  are  so 

61 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

carefully  divided  in  '  The  Mechanical  Operation  of  the 
Spirit ' ;  *  a  supernatural  assistance  from  without '  and 
'  the  spirit  we  treat  of  here,  proceeding  entirely  from 
within  ' ;  secondly  they  are  the  '  lewdness  and  nastiness,' 
divided  in  the  two  operations  of  the  penis,  which  have 
already  been  compared  to  the  first  in  the  comparison  of 
conscience  to  a  pair  of  breeches.  '  Joining  for  brevity's 
sake '  is  a  habit  both  of  the  hated  sensuality  and  the 
controlling  reason  (especially  in  the  Augustan  style) ; 
they  too  by  this  similarity  are  fearfully  and  inextricably 
joined.  It  is  urgent  for  Swift  to  take  the  first  two  as 
oppositcs ;  he  does  not  sec  much  irony  in  pretending  the 
second  two  are  alike;  yet  if  you  accept  the  blasphemy 
against  nature  the  blasphemy  against  spirit  is  a  sort  of 
corollary.  The  insinuating  horror  of  the  style  (the 
remarks  for  posterity  winch  pretend  to  be  irony  are 
quite  true)  so  joins  them  as  to  defile  all  four.  What 
Swift  was  trying  to  say  is  a  minor  matter;  he  was 
rightly  accused  of  blasphemy  for  what  he  said ;  his  own 
strength  made  his  instrument  too  strong  for  him. 

The  fundamental  impulse  of  irony  is  to  score  off 
both  the  arguments  that  have  been  puzzling  you,  bodi 
sets  of  sympathies  in  your  mind,  both  sorts  of  fool  who 
will  hear  you;  a  plague  on  both  their  houses.  It  is 
because  of  the  strength  given  by  this  antagonism  that 
it  seems  to  get  so  safely  outside  the  situation  it  assumes, 
to  decide  so  easily  about  the  doubt  which  it  in  fact 
accepts.  This  may  seem  a  disagreeable  pleasure  in  the 
ironist  but  he  gives  the  same  pleasure  more  or  less 
secretly  to  Ins  audience,  and  the  process  brings  to  mind 
the  whole  body  of  their  difficulty  with  so  much  sharp- 
ness and  freshness  that  it  may  give  the  strength  to  escape 
from  it.    It  is  when  the  ironist  himself  begins  to  doubt 

62 


a 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

(late  in  Butler's  Fair  Haven)  that  the  far-reaching  ironies 
appear ;  and  by  then  the  thing  is  like  a  dramatic  appeal 
to  an  audience,  because  both  parties  in  the  audience 
could  swallow  it.  The  essential  is  for  the  author  to 
repeat  the  audience  in  himself,  and  he  may  safely  seem 
to  do  nothing  more.  No  doubt  he  has  covertly,  if  it 
is  a  good  irony,  to  reconcile  the  opposites  into  a  larger 
unity,  or  suggest  a  balanced  position  by  setting  out  two 
extreme  views,  or  accept  a  he  (more  or  less  consciously) 
to  find  energy  to  accept  a  truth,  or  something  like  that, 
but  I  am  not  concerned  with  these  so  much  as  with 
the  machinery  by  which  they  arc  put  across.  I  think 
it  must  be  conceived  as  like  a  full-blown  *  dramatic 
ambiguity/  in  which  different  parts  of  the  audience  are 
meant  to  interpret  the  thing  in  different  ways. 

The  two  phrases  *  dramatic  irony '  and  *  ironical 
cheers,'  both  concerned  with  an  audience,  take  a  wide 
view  of  irony  as  a  matter  of  course.  Dramatic  irony,  as 
the  term  is  used,  need  only  make  some  point  (not  a 
simple  comparison)  by  reminding  you  of  another  part 
of  the  play.  And  the  best  ironical  cheers  do  not  mean 
*  obviously  you  are  wrong  '  but  *  obviously  we  can 
grant  that;  taking  the  larger  view,  your  argument  is 
in  our  favour.'  When  Levidulcia  brings  out  her  couplet, 
those  who  take  it  as  an  irony  against  her  hiss;  those 
who  feel  it  needed  saying  give  an  ironical  cheer.  The 
effect  is  like  humour  in  its  breadth,  thougli  like  irony  in 
its  tension ;  humour  need  only  say  '  it  is  cheering  to 
watch  her,  she  shows  we  are  right  by  being  so  obviously 
wrong,'  whereas  the  cheer  means  '  it  is  discreditable, 
but  it  is  the  other  half  of  the  truth.'  Language  seems  to 
agree  with  me  here,  that  double  irony  is  somehow 
natural  to  the  stage. 

63 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

The  value  of  the  state  of  mind  which  finds  double 
irony  natural  is  that  it  combines  breadth  of  sympathy 
with  energy  of  judgment ;  it  can  keep  its  balance  among 
all  the  materials  for  judging.  The  word  sympathy  here 
is  suspicious ;  it  may  range  from  *  able  to  imagine 
what  some  one  feels  and  so  understand  him '  to  '  pre- 
pared to  be  sorry  for  him,  because  you  are  safe  and 
superior ' ;  indeed  it  may  have  shrunk  towards  the 
second.  People  say  that  Pope's  satire  has  too  little  sym- 
pathy to  be  good,  but  sympathy  in  the  first  sense  it 
certainly  has.  The  Elizabethan  feeling  can  be  seen  most 
clearly  in  die  popular  rogue  pamphlets,  which  express 
warm  sympathy  for  the  villains  while  holding  in  mind 
both  horror  for  their  crimes  as  such  and  pity  and  terror 
for  the  consequences.  Stories  of  successful  cheats  are 
1  merry '  because  the  reader  imagines  himself  as  the 
robber,  so  as  to  enjoy  his  courage,  dexterity,  etc.,  and 
as  the  robbed — he  can  stand  up  to  this  trick  now  that 
he  has  been  told ;  a  secret  freedom  kept  the  two  from 
obstructing  each  other.  This  fulness  in  the  audience 
clearly  allowed  of  complex  character-building;  one 
need  not  put  hero  and  villain  in  black  and  white ;  though 
not  everybody  in  the  audience  understood  such  a  char- 
acter they  did  not  object  when  they  only  understood 
partial  conflicting  interpretations  of  it.  Probably  one 
could  make  analyses  of  the  possible  ways  of  taking  a 
Shakespeare  *  character  '  like  my  petty  one  of  the  ways 
of  reading  Brooke  on  fish ;  few  people  in  the  audience 
would  get  it  in  only  one  way,  and  few  in  all.  And  even 
the  man  who  saw  the  full  interpretation  would  still  use 
the  partial  ones;  both  because  he  was  in  contact  with 
the  audience  the  play  assumed  and  because  he  needed 
crude  as  well  as  delicate  means  of  interpreting  it  quickly 

64 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

on  the  stage.  This  is  obvious  about  surprise  effects; 
the  theatregoer  has  a  quite  different  sequence  of  emotions 
in  seeing  the  play  a  second  time,  and  yet  he  has  not  lost 
the  effects  due  to  surprise,  even  as  much  as  in  re-reading 
a  novel,  because  he  can  feel  some  one  in  the  audience 
still  being  surprised.  But  to  do  this  in  more  serious 
matters  needs  a  special  attitude.  What  is  so  impressive 
about  the  Elizabethans  is  that  complexity  of  sympathy 
was  somehow  obvious  to  them;  this  same  power, 
I  think,  made  them  feel  at  home  with  dramatic  ambiguity 
and  with  the  vague  suggestiveness  of  the  double  plot. 

The  supreme  case  of  dramatic  ambiguity  is  VerralTs 
interpretation  of  Euripides ;  the  plays  were  to  dramatise 
sacred  myths  for  a  popular  religious  festival,  yet  for 
some  members  of  the  audience  they  were  to  suggest 
criticism  of  die  gods,  for  others  to  convey  complete 
disbelief  and  actually  rationalise  the  myths  before  their 
eyes.  The  whole  point  was  to  play  off  one  part  of  the 
audience  against  the  other,  and  yet  this  made  a  superb 
4  complete  play '  for  the  critic  who  felt  what  was  being 
felt  in  the  whole  audience.  This  total  aesdietic  effect 
would  not  be  *  in  the  play  '  if  it  was  only  a  clever  secret 
attack.  But  the  plays  are  not  addressed  only  to  the  few ; 
the  choruses  are  straightforward  religious  poetry;  all 
shades  of  opinion  were  to  be  fused  by  the  infection  of 
the  theatre  into  a  unity  of  experience,  under  sufficiently 
different  forms  to  avoid  riots.  On  a  smaller  scale  I 
think  this  is  usual  in  the  theatre.  No  doubt,  as  he  said, 
it  was  painful  to  Shakespeare  that  his  audiences  were  so 
crude,  but  any  one  who  has  seen  Shaw  acted  hi  the 
provinces  will  know  that  a  dramatist  may  actually  depend 
on  a  variety  of  crudity ;  on  a  giggle  here,  and  a  clucking 
of  the  tongue  there,  and  the  power  to  make  them  change 

E  65 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

places.  Any  *  solid  '  play,  which  can  give  the  individual 
a  rich  satisfaction  at  one  time,  and  therefore  different 
satisfactions  at  different  times  from  different  *  points  of 
view/  is  likely  to  be  a  play  that  can  satisfy  different 
individuals;  it  can  face  an  audience;  the  trouble  with 
plays  like  Maeterlinck's  is  that  they  are  only  good  from 
one  *  point  of  view.'  The  Elizabethans  had  anyway  to 
satisfy  both  groundlings  and  courtly  critics;  there  had 
to  be  levels  of  interpretation,  each  of  which  made  a 
presentable  play.  And  yet,  since  the  separation  of 
ambiguity  into  different  times  for  the  reader  or  different 
persons  for  an  audience  is  never  complete,  at  each  such 
level  you  would  feel  that  there  were  others  that  made  the 
play  '  solid  ' ;  so  far  as  the  audience  is  an  inter-conscious 
unit  they  all  work  on  it  together. 

The  mind's  ear  catches  a  warning  rumble  from  the 
psycho-analysts  at  this  point,  *  far  within,  and  in  their 
own  dimensions  like  themselves.'  Ernest  Jones'  essay 
on  Hamlet,  which  may  perhaps  have  caused  Mr.  Eliot 
to  jettison  the  play  in  his  later  essay,  brought  out  a  very 
far-reaching  use  of  double-plot  methods  and  introduced 
at  least  one  valuable  technical  term ;  in  *  decomposition  ' 
*  one  person  of  complex  character  is  dissolved  and 
replaced  by  several,  each  of  whom  possesses  a  different 
aspect  of  the  character  winch  in  the  simpler  form  of  the 
myth  is  combined  in  one  being.'  This  is  supposed 
always  to  be  due  to  a  regular  repression,  as  by  an  (Edipus 
complex  producing  a  tyrant  and  a  loved  father,  but  it 
obviously  has  a  wider  use — wherever  a  situation,  con- 
ceived as  a  myth  and  repeated  with  variations,  is  the 
root  material  of  the  play.  The  trouble  about  this 
approach  is  its  assumption  that  the  only  ideas  with  which 
an  audience  can  be  infected  unconsciously  are  the  funda- 

66 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

mental  Freudian  ones.  Freud's  theory  of  the  Group 
Mind  assumes  that  once  in  a  crowd  the  individual  loses 
all  the  inhibitions  of  civilisation,  and  a  theatre  audience 
satisfies  none  of  M'Dougall's  five  conditions  without 
which  a  group  cannot  be  other  than  infantile.  (I  should 
say  tliis  is  less  obviously  untrue  of  a  cinema  audience, 
which  can't  let  the  actor  know  what  it  thinks  of  him 
and  therefore  makes  less  delicate  exchanges  of  its 
opinions.)  One  might  reply  with  a  Freudian  Opposite ; 
the  reason  that  a  mob  is  the  very  cauldron  of  the  inner 
depths  is  that  an  appeal  to  a  circle  of  a  man's  equals  is 
the  fundamental  escape  into  the  fresh  air  of  the  mind. 
Mob  thought  may  kill  us  all  before  our  time,  but  the 
scientist's  view  of  it  should  not  be  warped  by  horror, 
and  the  writer  who  isolates  himself  from  all  feeling  for 
his  audience  acquires  the  faults  of  romanticism  without 
its  virtues.  Probably  an  audience  does  to  some  extent 
let  loose  the  hidden  traditional  ideas  common  to  its 
members,  which  may  be  a  valuable  process,  but  it  also 
forms  a  small  *  public  opinion ' ;  the  mutual  influence 
of  its  members'  judgments,  even  though  expressed  by 
the  most  obscure  means  or  only  imagined  from  their 
presence,  is  so  strong  as  to  produce  a  sort  of  sensibility 
held  in  common,  and  from  their  variety  it  may  be 
wider,  more  sensible,  than  that  of  any  of  its  members. 
It  is  this  fact  that  the  theatre  is  more  really  public  than 
the  public  of  novelists  which  has  made  it  so  fruitful, 
and  makes  its  failure  or  limitation  to  one  class  a  social 
misfortune.  ' 

A  reviewer  of  my  book  on  ambiguity  rightly  said 
that  I  was  confusing  poetical  with  dramatic  uses  of  it, 
which  he  said  showed  that  I  was  treating  poems  as 
phenomena  not  as  things  judged  by  a  mind.     Certainly 

67 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

to  claim  that  one  can  slip  from  one  view  to  the  other  is 
to  assume  a  disorderly  theory  of  aesthetics,  a  theory 
rather  like  the  version  of  proletarian  aesthetic  I  was 
attacking  in  the  first  chapter.  It  is  clear  that  any  theory 
has  to  deal  with  a  puzzle  here,  and  its  main  business  is 
so  to  treat  the  puzzle  as  to  keep  it  from  doing  harm. 
This  is  only  Horace  v.  Longinus ;  a  work  of  art  is  a 
tiling  judged  by  the  artist  and  yet  a  thing  inspired  winch 
may  mean  more  than  he  knew — as  may  a  mathematical 
formula  for  that  matter;  and  a  critic's  judgment  is 
only  part  of  the  effects  of  the  play,  which  are  what 
have  to  be  judged.  There  is  an  old  argument  as  to 
whether  probability  is  a  fundamental  notion  or  one 
derived  from  statistics,  and  it  seems  possible  that  this  is 
an  insoluble  puzzle  because  the  two  are  mutually  depend- 
ent, like  the  One  and  the  Many.  In  the  same  way  a 
poetical  ambiguity  depends  on  the  reader's  weighting 
the  possible  meanings  according  to  their  probability, 
while  a  dramatic  ambiguity  depends  on  the  audience's 
having  the  possible  reactions  in  the  right  proportions, 
but  the  distinction  is  only  a  practical  one.  Once  you 
break  into  the  godlike  unity  of  the  appreciator  you  find 
a  microcosm  of  which  the  theatre  is  the  macrocosm ; 
the  mind  is  complex  and  ill-connected  like  an  audience, 
and  it  is  as  surprising  in  the  one  case  as  the  other  that  a 
sort  of  unity  can  be  produced  by  a  play. 


68 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 


HI 

One  of  my  assumptions  about  double  plots  was  that 
they  invoked  certain  magical  ideas,  and  I  had  best  give 
another  line  of  evidence  from  the  thought  of  the  period. 
Seventeenth-century  poets  often  use  a  process  like  this 
to  glorify  the  loved  woman,  a  trick  that  seems  partly 
derived  from  the  deification  of  Elizabeth;  to  take 
the  deity  from  her  and  give  it  to  some  one  without 
public  importance  is  like  the  use  of  heroic  language 
about  the  pastoral  swain.  I  should  connect  this  with 
their  occasional  hints  of  pantheism,  largely  imported 
from  the  then  popular  stoics,  since  to  a  pantheist  any  one 
may  be  an  example  of  the  universal  Nature.  The  rest 
of  Europe  indeed  was  playing  the  same  tricks. 

The  deification  of  Elizabeth  can  be  seen  most  clearly 
in  the  fragment  of  Ralegh's  Twelfth  Book  of  the  Ocean 
to  Cynthia,  written  in  prison,  in  her  old  age,  to  win 
back  her  favour,  and  apparently  abandoned  in  despair. 

My  times  that  then  ran  o'er  themselves  in  this 

and  now  run  out  in  others'  happiness 

bring  unto  those  new  joys,  and  new  born  days, 

so  could  she  not,  if  she  were  not  the  sun, 
which  sees  the  birth,  and  burial,  of  all  else, 
and  holds  that  power,  by  which  she  first  begun, 

leaving  each  withered  body  to  be  torn 

by  fortune,  and  by  times  tempestuous,  ' 

which  by  her  virtue,  once  fair  fruit  had  born : 

-  knowing  she  can  renew,  and  can  create 
green  from  the  ground,  and  flowers,  even  out  of  stone, 
by  virtue  lasting  over  time  and  date, 

69 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

leaving  us  only  woe,  which  like  the  moss, 
having  compassion  of  unburied  bones, 
cleaves  to  mischance,  and  unrepaired  loss 

for  tender  stalks.  .  .  . 

The  manuscript  breaks  off,  and  the  ideas  were  re-hashed 
in  a  painfully  flat  form  for  the  Queen  of  James  I.  It 
would  seem  even  more  obviously  blasphemous  when 
he  re-wrote  for  Elizabeth  the  lost  ballad  about  the  Virgin 
of  Walsingham. 

As  you  came  from  the  holy  land 

of  Walsinghamc 
Mctt  you  not  with  my  tru  louc 

by  the  way  as  you  came. 

His  [Love's]  desire  is  a  dureless  content 

And  a  trustless  joyc 
He  is  woiin  with  a  world  of  despayre 

And  is  lost  with  a  toye : 

The  poem  has  been  called  early  and  anonymous  from  the 
style  of  the  beginning;  Miss  Latham's  authoritative 
text  claims  it  for  Ralegh  on  one  manuscript  attribution 
and  the  style  of  the  end.  There  seems  clear  evidence 
that  there  was  an  old  ballad  and  that  even  the  first  verse 
has  been  re-written.  All  subsequent  authors  who  quote 
it  get  it  wrong  in  the  same  way ;  they  all  put  Walsingham 
first  and  the  holy  land  in  the  next  line.  Merrythought 
in  die  Burning  Pestle  sings  the  verse  like  that ;  a  remin- 
iscence of  the  first  two  lines  in  The  Weakest  goes  to  the 
Wall  (1600)  does  the  same ;  so  does  a  humorous  ballad 
in  the  Pepysian  collection,  which  seems  a  parody  of 
Ralegh's  original,  and  would  get  such  a  point  right  to 
make  this  clear.     Even  the  copyist  of  the  surviving 

70 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

manuscript  of  the  poem,  Miss  Latham  tells  us,  first 
wrote 

As  you  wen .  to  Walsingham, 
to  that  holy  land, 

as  if  this  was  the  way  anybody  would  expect  it  to  start, 
and  then  corrected  himself  in  the  margin.  The  last  two 
lines  of  the  original  first  verse  are  lost,  but  it  seems  clear, 
since  there  is  a  new  rhyme,  that  Ralegh  had  the  im- 
pudence to  write  the  exquisitely  mediaeval  ones  of  his 
version.  Apart  from  this  imaginative  feat,  the  clash  of 
ideas  is  sufficiently  startling. 

I  haue  loucd  her  all  my  youth 

butt  now  ould  as  you  sec 
louc  likes  not  the  fallyng  frute 

nor  the  wythercd  tree  : 

but  after  all  this  time  she  is  still 

as  the  heuens  fair 
There  is  none  hath  a  forme  so  divine 
in  the  earth  or  the  ayre. 

It  is  taken  for  granted  that  she  is  immortal.  The  funda- 
mental idea  of  the  poem  is  a  clash  of  styles  and  indeed 
of  historical  periods  which  sets  her  up  in  direct  rivalry 
to  the  Queen  of  Heaven,  and  in  the  last  verse  it  is  not 
clear  that  true  love  is  to  be  found  in  cither  of  them. 

The  more  usual  method  is  to  make  the  thing  safely 
playful  by  mixing  it  both  with  myth  and  pastoral,  as 
when  Elizabeth  is  appropriately  the  daughter  of  Pan  in 
the  Shepherd's  Calendar,  or  when  after  those  lovely 
speeches  of  pastoral  humility  by  the  Shepherd  Paris, 
swamped  among  his  goddesses  in  Peeled  Arraignment, 
all  the  gods  in  turn,  including  the  Fates,  grant  that 
Elizabeth   is   above   them.     They   are   feigned   pagan 

7i 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

gods  or  mere  allegories  and  she  is  a  real  Christian  queen, 
so  the  thing  need  not  be  unchristian ;  it  is  put  in  a  fairy- 
story  world  which  may  yet  yield  profound  truths. 
Yet  allegory  itself,  a  comparatively  late  classical  inven- 
tion, is  always  liable  to  return  to  the  deification  from 
which  it  came,  and  the  more  you  avoid  this  by  taking 
a  humble  example  of  the  quality  as  its  type  the  more 
you  deify  the  figure  of  pastoral. 

Something  of  the  kind  may,  I  believe,  be  felt  in  the 
earliest  convention  of  an  art  based  on  divine  royalty, 
in  the  statues  of  the  Pharaohs.     Tins  is  not  such  a  long 
jump ;   the  striking  thing  about  Ancient  Egypt  when 
you  come  there  from  the  East  is  that  it  is  so  European, 
and   the  noble  great  head  of  Amenemhat  III  in  the 
British  Museum  (dear  good  dog — the  Prince  of  Wales 
always  docs  his  best)  would  be  just  the  thing  for  a 
modern  War  Memorial.    But  this  is  unusual  and  fairly 
late ;  the  feeling  is  generally  put  into  the  torso,  a  power- 
ful body  so  handled  as  to  seem  delicate,  vulnerable,  and 
touching,  in  the  contrast  of  the  rigid  lines.    The  same 
clash  of  the  bruiser  and  the  flower  (now  mainly  used  in 
representations  of  cart-horses)  seems  at  work  in  one  of 
the  statues  of  the  Indus  civilisation  and  is  clear  in  the 
earliest  statues  of  Buddha  at  Mathura,  based  on  a  clumsier 
tradition  for  big  earth-gods ;  then  a  new  idea  of  spiritual- 
ity comes  in,  whether  partly  Greek  or  not,  and  this 
theme  can  only  dimly  be  fancied  in  the  normal  Buddha. 
It  seems  clear  in  the  more  satisfying  Pharaohs,  at  any 
rate,  that  this  conception  of  the  divine  king,  devoted  and 
unintcllcctual,  doing  his  best  at  the  work  of  being  a  deity, 
especially  in  its  firm  acceptance  of  the  strong  man  as  a 
touching  emblem  of  nobility,  has  a  double  feeling  of  die 
same  kind  as  is  invoked  for  pastoral. 

72 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

At  the  same  time  as  the  unchristian  deification  of 
Elizabeth  there  is  in  the  air  a  Renaissance  desire  to  make 
the  individual  more  independent  than  Christianity 
allowed;  the  two  ideas  are  involved  for  instance  in 
Tamburlane,  the  scourge  of  God  (subjective  or  objective 
genitive)  who  calls  himself  master  of  Jupiter  and  the 
Fates  and  dies  as  a  stoic  in  face  of  Necessity.  The  feeling 
for  independence  peeps  out  in  the  language  about 
animals.  They  are  envied  for  not  being  threatened  with 
heaven  or  hell,  with  an  external  last  judgment ;  this 
•  naturally  appears  as  a  result  of  fear  of  hell,  but  the  wider 
feeling,  that  one  did  not  want  to  submit  to  die  inquisition 
of  a  central  divine  authority  even  at  best,  was  the  neces- 
sary background  of  its  appeal.  In  the  last  hour  of 
Faustus  (who  told  the  devil  himself  he  still  didn't  believe 
in  Hell)  his  mind  flies  to  the  theories  of  the  soul  diat  do 
not  burden  it  with  a  permanent  individuality. 

You  stars  that  reigned  at  my  nativity 
Whose  influence  hath  allotted  death  and  hell 
Now  draw  up  Faustus  like  a  foggy  mist.  .  .  . 

Ah,  Pythagoras'  metempsychosis,  were  that  true 
This  soul  should  fly  from  me,  and  I  be  changed 
Unto  some  brutish  beast.    All  beasts  are  happy, 
For,  when  they  die, 

Their  souls  are  still  dissolved  in  elements ; 
But  mine  must  live,  still  to  be  plagued  in  hell. 

The  first  idea  is  that  his  soul  might  melt  back  into  the 
soul  of  an  impersonal  Nature,  still  remaining  soul-stuff; 
the  next  idea,  of  re-birth,  does  not  fit  in  well  with  the 
third,  of  the  mere  extinction  of  the  souls  of  animals  at 
death,  and  the  doubtful  word  dissolved  allows  pantheism 
to  be  still  present  at  the  end.  Marcus  Aurelius  keeps  just 
this  balance  of  doubt.    You  may  say  that  the  dissolution 

73 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

of  the  individual  makes  him  less  responsible,  so  that 
Faustus  is  trying  to  be  less  independent  here,  but  that 
was  not  his  intention  at  the  time.  Animals  turn  up  in 
Donne's  Holy  Sonnets  with  the  same  implication. 

If  lecherous  goats,  if  serpents  envious 

Cannot  be  damned,  alas,  why  should  I  bee  ?  .  .  . 

But  who  am  I,  that  dare  dispute  with  thee 
Oh  God  ?    Oh  !  of  thy  only  worthy  blood 
And  my  tearcs,  make  a  heavenly  Lethean  flood 
And  drown  in  it  my  sinnes  black  memorie  ; 
That  thou  remember  them,  some  claim  as  debt ; 
I  think  it  mercy,  if  thou  wilt  forget. 

He  has  apparently  backed  away  from  the  idea  with 
apologies,  but  it  comes  back  in  the  last  couplet;  them 
must  be  *  some  people  '  (nobody  claims  to  have  their 
sins  remembered)  and  the  parallel  is  *  forget  me.'  This 
reflects  back  some  doubt  as  to  how  completely  he  was 
to  be  drowned,  and  Lethe  was  where  the  souls  forgot 
everything  before  re-birth.  The  next  example  makes  a 
more  interesting  use,  for  the  same  purpose,  of  the  map 
of  the  world. 

I  am  a  little  world  made  cunningly 

Of  Elements,  and  an  Angcllike  spright, 

But  black  sinne  hath  betraid  to  cndlcsse  night 

My  worlds  both  parts,  and  (oh)  both  parts  must  die. 

You  which  beyond  that  heaven  which  was  most  high 

Have  found  new  sphears,  and  of  new  lands  can  write, 

Powre  new  seas  in  my  eyes,  that  so  I  might 

Drowne  my  world  with  my  weeping  earnesdy, 

Or  wash  it ;  if  it  must  be  drowned  no  more ; 

But  oh  it  must  be  burnt,  alas  the  fire 

Of  lust  and  envie  have  burnt  it  heretofore 

And  made  it  fouler  ;  Let  their  flames  retire, 

And  burnc  me  o  Lord,  with  a  fiery  zeale 

Of  thee  and  thy  house,  which  doth  in  eating  heale. 

74 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

The  octet,  though  without  indifference  to  a  universal 
right  and  wrong,  takes  the  soul  as  isolated  and  inde- 
pendent ;  it  is  viewed  as  the  world  in  the  new  astronomy, 
a  small  sphere,  complete  in  itself,  safe  from  interference, 
in  the  middle  distance.  The  idea  that  you  can  get  right 
away  to  America,  that  human  affairs  are  not  organised 
round  one  certainly  right  authority  (e.g.  the  Pope)  is 
direcdy  compared  to  the  new  idea  that  there  are  other 
worlds  like  this  one,  so  that  die  inhabitants  of  each  can 
live  in  their  own  way.  These  notions  carried  a  consider- 
able weight  of  implication,  because  they  lead  at  once  to 
a  doubt  either  of  the  justice  or  the  uniqueness  of  Christ. 
It  was  bad  enough  when  all  the  Chinese  were  certain 
of  hell  because  they  had  not  been  told  of  the  appearance 
of  the  Messiah,  but  to  damn  all  inhabitants  of  other 
planets  on  this  count  was  intolerable.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  Christ  went  to  all  the  planets  his  appearances  on 
each  take  on  a  different  character ;  it  is  a  more  symbolical 
matter,  and  you  can  apply  the  ideas  about  Christ  to 
any  one  who  seems  worthy  of  it.  This  was  in  fact  done, 
though  with  an  air  of  metaphor.  Beyond  that  heaven 
which  was  most  high  adds  that  heaven,  if  it  is  there  at 
all,  is  now  safely  far  off;  it  is  difficult  to  reach  across 
from  either  side. 

Professor  Grierson  puts  a  comma  after  or  wash  it 
in  place  of  the  colon  of  the  best  manuscript  W,  wliich 
seems  to  me  better ;  certainly  he  is  right  in  putting  some 
stop,  which  the  1633  text  doesn't.  The  division  between 
octet  and  sestet  seems,  here  and  nowhere  else  \n  the 
sequence,  to  come  a  line  late ;  but  the  thought  changes 
at  the  right  place.  Drowning  the  world  no  more  brings 
us  back  to  Noah  and  an  entirely  pre-Copernican  heaven, 
and  there  is  a  surprise  in  the  first  part  of  the  line  which 

75 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

prepares  us  for  it;  the  distinction  between  wash  and 
drown  brought  out  the  question  as  to  what  was  to  be 
drowned.  It  seems  at  first  that  the  sprite  and  elements, 
spirit  and  body,  correspond  to  the  day  and  night  of  the 
imagined  globe,  a  fine  case  of  the  fusion  of  soul  and  body 
which  Donne  often  attempts.  But  in  that  case  both  are 
to  be  drowned ;  the  soul  is  safe  because  sure  of  extinc- 
tion. The  flood  pulls  us  back  from  this  with  a  reminder 
of  the  final  fire.  *  You,  by  our  eating  of  you,  heal  me, 
and  heal  your  house;  your  house,  in  eating  you,  heals 
itself;  you,  by  eating  with  the  fires  of  hell  lust  and 
envy,  your  house,  by  eating  with  the  fires  of  Smithfield 
such  heresies  as  are  at  the  back  of  my  mind,  heal  me/ 
Bernard  Shaw  said  that  Marlowe  was  a  nasty  little  boy 
trying  to  make  our  flcsb  creep  over  a  hell  in  which  he 
no  longer  believed.  He  was  in  strong  danger  of  a  fire 
undoubtedly  material.  The  symbolism  of  the  use  of 
fire  as  a  punishment  for  heresy  could  not  but  work  on  a 
man  exposed  to  it  as  it  was  meant  to  do ;  it  produced 
a  sort  of  belief.  The  reader  is  now  safely  recalled  from 
the  interplanetary  spaces,  baffled  among  the  cramped, 
inverted,  cannibal,  appallingly  tangled  impulses  that 
are  his  home  upon  the  world. 

The  clash  here  shows  what  the  globe  has  been  used  for 
in  Donne's  earlier  poetry,  where  it  is  a  continual  meta- 
phor; I  suppose  he  had  a  globe  map  in  his  room.  To 
say  that  his  mistress  is  the  whole  world  is  not  witty  and 
satisfying  merely  because  the  complete  hyperbole;  if 
you  take  world  not  as  the  universe  but  as  this  planet  it 
becomes  something  one  might  conceivably  get  outside 
but  which  it  would  be  absurd  to  try  to  get  outside; 
there  are  more  than  one  of  them,  but  each  creature  is 
right  in  giving  an  absurd  importance  to  his  own. 

76 


i 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

Thou  sun  art  half  as  happy  as  wc 
In  that  the  world's  contracted  thus ; 
Thine  age  asks  ease,  and  since  thy  duties  be 
To  warm  the  world,  that's  done  in  warming  us. 
Shine  here  to  us,  and  thou  art  everywhere, 
This  bed  thy  centre  is,  these  walls  thy  sphere. 

If  the  world  is  ending  it  is  only  for  astronomical  reasons 
that  do  not  involve  the  last  judgment.  Since  the  world 
has  grown  small,  and  the  sun  near  its  end,  we  are  set 
free  with  a  sort  of  cosiness,  an  irresponsible  concentra- 
tion, to  be  happy  while  we  may.  The  scheme  of 
making  the  soul  of  each  lover  the  matter  which  the 
soul  of  the  other  informs  merely  carried  this  process  to 
its  conclusion;  they  are  now  completely  isolated  and 
necessarily  die  together. 

The  belief  that  the  world  was  soon  coming  to  an  end, 
found  in  Donne,  Chapman,  and  Sir  Thomas  Browne, 
seems  important  to  them  and  is  not  easily  explained. 
Samuel  Butler  the  elder  laughs  at  it  as  based  on  a  passage 
in  Copernicus  about  two  determinations  of  the  distance 
of  the  sun,  of  which  the  second  made  the  sun  nearer, 
so  that  we  seemed  to  be  falling  into  it ;  this  would  provide 
the  last  fire.  I  suspect  that  there  was  some  astronomical 
pamphlet  which  they  had  all  read,  but  HakewilTs  refuta- 
tion of  the  belief  does  not  put  one  on  to  it.  At  any  rate 
the  belief  was  respectable  but  not  certain  and  had  proofs 
from  astronomy  rather  than  religion.  In  a  way  it 
strengdicned  the  claims  of  religion  against  the  hopes  of 
Bacon,  but  it  implied  diat  other  worlds  would  nqt  end 
when  ours  did,  and  this  strengdiencd  the  feeling  that 
everything  was  local,  even  the  prophecies  in  the  Bible. 

The  connection  between  pantheism  and  deification 
is   perhaps   best   approached   by   a   speculative   route. 

77 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

F.  M.  Cornford  developed  a  theory  in  From  Religion 
to  Philosophy  that  the  primitive  Greeks  invented  Nature 
by  throwing  out  onto  the  universe  the  idea  of  a  common 
life-blood;  the  living  force  that  made  natural  events 
follow  reasonable  laws,  and  in  particular  made  the 
crops  grow,  was  identified  with  the  blood  which  made 
the  members  of  the  tribe  into  a  unity  and  which  they 
shared  with  their  totem.  So  the  physicist  is  well  con- 
nected by  derivation  to  the  physician,  the  *  leech  '  who 
lets  blood.  However  this  may  have  been  in  primitive 
Greece  it  was  a  natural  fancy  for  a  Christian ;  the  Logos 
had  been  formulated  as  the  underlying  Reason  of  the 
universe  and  was  also  the  Christ  who  had  saved  man 
by  shedding  his  blood  and  sharing  it  in  the  Communion. 
It  seems  to  me  that  there  is  a  trace  of  the  idea  in  the 
speech  of  Faustus. 

The  stars  move  still ;  time  runs ;  the  clock  will  strike ; 
The  devil  will  come,  and  Faustus  must  be  damned. 
O,  I'll  leap  up  to  my  God,  Who  pulls  me  down  i 
Sec,  see  where  Christ's  blood  streams  in  the  firmament. 

The  blood  might  be  the  red  sunset  of  the  fatal  night. 
It  is  too  far  oft'  to  help,  perhaps,  because  the  firmament 
had  grown  further  off;  what  pulls  him  down  is  the  force 
that  holds  him  to  one  world.  Clearly  the  sign  is  for 
some  reason  a  portent  not  a  hope ;  perhaps  because  the 
sacrifice  of  Christ  has  made  his  sin  more  unforgivable. 
I  think  there  is  a  feeling  that  the  blood  of  Christ  is  what 
sustains  all  Nature,  therefore  it  is  what  makes  time  run 
on.  And  die  idea  that  Christ  is  somehow  diffused 
through  all  Nature  (into  which  Faustus  lnmself  wishes 
to  be  dissolved)  makes  it  the  more  impossible  to  escape 
punishment. 

With  Donne's  Crosse  we  escape  the  need  for  conjee- 

78 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

ture;   he  makes  the  pun  on  physic  and  treats  the  cross 
(it  is  an  old  fancy)  as  underlying  the  natural  order. 

All  the  Globes  frame,  and  spheares,  is  nothing  else, 
But  the  Meridians  crossing  Parallels. 
Material  crosses,  then,  good  physic  be, 
But  yet  spiritual  have  chief  dignity. 

Space  itself,  die  type  of  explanation,  is  shown  to  hold 

.dissolved  throughout  it,  as  the  differential  equation  of 

its  structure,  the  impenetrable  tangle  of  ideas  about  the 

sacrifice  of  the  scapegoat  and  the  hero.    I  am  not  sure 

how  much  Herbert  meant  by  the  following  example. 

The  bloody  cross  of  my  dear  Lord 
Is  both  my  physic  and  my  sword. 

It  shows  chiefly  the  naturalness  of  the  metaphor.    The 

notion  is  more  grandly  employed  by  Wordsworth,  in 

one  of  the  crucial  passages  where  he  describes  the  right 

relation  of  the  individual  to  Nature. 

.  .  .  Blest  the  infant  Babe, 

(For  with  my  best  conjecture  I  would  trace 

The  progress  of  our  Being)  blest  the  Babe, 

Nursed  in  his  Mother's  arms .  .  . 

No  outcast  he,  bewildered  and  depressed : 

Along  his  infant  veins  are  interfused 

The  gravitation  and  the  filial  bond 

Of  nature,  that  connect  him  with  the  world. 

The  only  flat  way  to  take  the  metaphors  is  to  say  that 
the  common  life-blood  is  interfused  along  his  veins,  and 
that  the  filial  bond  at  one  time  came  through  the  placenta. 
Gravitation  fits  in  with  the  Donne  passages  because  by 
that  Nature  holds  him  to  the  bosom  of  one  planet,  not 
the  other  possible  ones.  Coleridge  at  least  would  have 
felt  at  home  with  this  line  of  speculation. 

Finally,  on  such  a  view  might  not  Christ  be  the  World  as 
revealed  to  human  knowledge — a  kind  of  common  sensorium, 

79 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  idea  of  the  whole  that  modifies  all  our  thoughts  ?  And  might 
not  numerical  difference  be  an  exclusive  property  of  phenomena 
so  that  he  who  puts  on  the  likeness  of  Christ  becomes  Christ  i 

Some  such  deduction  had  in  fact  been  made. 

These  last  passages  are,  of  course,  concerned  with  the 
union  of  the  individual  to  Christ  or  Nature,  not  his 
independence.  But  once  the  ideas  about  Christ  have 
been  so  far  generalised,  and  those  about  Nature  so  far 
localised,  the  same  trick  can  be  played  about  any  hero 
you  have  taken.  Donne's  poem  (The  Crosse)  from 
which  I  quoted  above  implies  a  considerable  independ- 
ence from  the  historical  Christ. 

.  .  .  But  yet  spiritual  have  chief  dignity. 
These  for  extracted  chemique  medecine  serve, 
And  cure  much  better,  and  as  well  preserve ; 
Then  you  are  your  own  physic,  or  need  none, 
When  stilled,  or  purged  by  tribulation. 

Who  can  deny  me  armes,  and  liberty 

To  stretch  mine  armes,  and  my  own  Crosse  to  be  f 

No  scandal  taken,  shall  this  Crosse  withdraw, 
It  shall  not,  for  it  cannot ;  for,  the  losse 
Of  this  Crosse,  were  to  me  another  Crosse. 

The  Cross  here  seems  quite  independent  of  Christianity ; 
it  is  essential  to  man's  mode  of  apprehending  the  world. 
This  of  course  is  a  religious  poem,  and  one  must  not 
press  the  words  out  of  their  intention ;  they  only  show 
how  ready  Donne  was  to  go  through  this  process,  and 
how  unsuspicious  of  it.  hi  the  early  love-poems  and 
the  first  Anniversary  it  is  used  very  firmly  indeed. 

Mr.  James  Smith,  in  an  excellent  essay  (Scrutiny  III, 
No.  2),  said  that  the  metaphysical  conceit  was  always 
built  out  of  the  immediate  realisation  of  a  philosophical 
problem  such  as  that  of  the  One  and  the  Many.     I 

80 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

should  agree  with  this,  but  I  think  it  was  nearly  always 
arrived  at  in  the  way  I  am  trying  to  describe.  The 
supreme  example  of  the  problem  of  the  One  and  the 
Many  was  given  by  the  Logos  who  was  an  individual 
man.  In  all  those  conceits  where  the  general  is  given 
a  sort  of  sacred  local  habitation  in  a  particular,  so  that 
this  particular  is  made  much  more  interesting  than  all 
similar  particulars  (absolutely  more  interesting,  but 
with  a  rival  suggestion  of  wit),  and  the  others  are  all 
dependent  on  it,  there  is  an  implied  comparison  to  the 
sacrificial  cult-hero,  to  Christ  as  the  Son  of  Man.  To  do 
this  indeed  was  hardly  more  than  to  take  personification 
seriously ;   it  is  incarnation  already. 

If  ever  any  beauty  I  did  see, 

Which  I  desir'd,  and  got,  'twas  but  a  dreame  of  thee. 

And  therefore  what  thou  wert,  and  who, 

I  bid  Love  aske,  and  now 
That  it  assume  thy  body,  I  allow, 
And  fixe  itself  in  thy  lip,  eye,  and  brow. 

This  at  once  leads  to  the  dependence  of  the  world  upon 
the  person  or  thing  treated  as  a  personification :  '  This 
member  of  the  class  is  the  whole  class,  or  its  defining 
property:  this  man  has  a  magical  importance  to  all 
men.'  If  you  choose  an  important  member  the  result 
is  heroic ;  if  you  choose  an  unimportant  one  it  is  pastoral. 

Or  if,  when  thou,  the  worlds  soule,  goest, 

It  stay,  tis  but  thy  carcase  then, 
The  fairest  woman,  but  thy  ghost, 

But  corrupt  wormes,  the  worthyest  men. 

O  wrangling  schooles,  that  search  what  fire 
Shall  burne  this  world,  had  none  the  wit 

Unto  this  knowledge  to  aspire, 
That  this  her  fever  might  be  it  ? 

P  8l 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

All  Donne's  best  poems,  the  Canonization,  Twickenham 
Garden,  A  Valediction  of  Weeping,  the  Nocturnal,  the 
Funeral,  the  Reliquc,  are  built  out  of  this ;  it  is  forced 
into  the  Exstasie  so  violently  as  to  make  M.  Lcgouis 
suspect  the  poem's  sincerity : 

To  our  bodies  turnc  wee  then,  that  so 
Weake  men  on  love  reveal'd  may  looke ; 

Loves  mysteries  in  soules  do  grow, 
But  yet  the  body  is  his  booke. 

The  idea  of  arranging  that  everybody  else  can  look,  so 
as  to  do  them  good,  ridiculous  in  itself,  follows  from  the 
implied  comparison  to  the  universal  Passion  of  Christ. 
This  process  of  thought  completed  the  usefulness  of  the 
globe-symbol :  '  we  can  rightly  take  our  world  (planet) 
as  the  world  (universe),  because  to  us  it  is  that  one  of  all 
the  planets  which  has  been  made  symbolic  (in  effect 
simply  made  real).  The  others  arc  all  like  it  so  need  not 
be  examined ;  the  others  arc  all  dependent  on  it  so  are 
controlled  when  it  is.' 

But  indeed  this  process  of  uniting  particular  and  general 
is  already  involved  in  the  idea  of  God.  God  cannot  be 
prior  to  goodness,  so  that  the  good  is  simply  his  will,  or 
he  is  a  tyrant  without  morality;  nor  can  goodness  be 
prior  to  him,  so  that  he  is  necessarily  good,  or  he  is 
not  free.  Though  God  is  a  person  he  and  the  good  must 
be  mutually  dependent;  it  was  because  Milton  refused 
to  play  the  tricks  of  the  metaphysical  and  made  God 
merely  one  of  the  persons  of  his  story  that  Satan  had  so 
strong  a  case.  It  is  not  an  accidental  product  of  a  special 
theology  that  Christ  once  made  God  must  be  treated  in 
this  way.  But  in  the  devotional  verse  of  the  time  the 
idea  is  stretched  onto  other  individuals  as  easily  as  in  the 
love  poetry.     Mary  Magdalene  is  treated  as  a  sort  of 

82 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

rival  Christ  in  Crashaw's  Weeper ;  or  perhaps  she  makes 
a  second  atonement,  between  Christ  and  the  world. 
It  is  she  now  who  underlies  the  order  of  nature. 

At  these  thy  weeping  gates, 
(Watching  their  watry  motion) 
Each  winged  moment  waits, 
Takes  his  Tear,  and  gets  him  gone. 

By  thine  Ey's  tinct  ennobled  thus 

Time  layes  him  up  ;  he's  pretious. 

She  is  not  merely  a  waterclock  but  the  waterclock  by 
which  Nature  measures  time ;  if  it  were  not  for  her 
sacrifice  time  would  break  up  altogether.  Since  her 
tears  are  both  the  essential  stars  and  the  essential  dew 
(and  so  on)  they  reconcile  earth  and  heaven,  they  per- 
form the  function  of  the  sacrificed  god.  *  Portable  and 
compendious  oceans '  has  been  thought  an  absurd  phrase 
merely  because  it  puts  specially  clearly  what  such  critics 
would  call  the  absurdity  of  the  whole  conception  of  the 
poem ;  her  tears  are  the  idea  of  water,  all  water,  and 
make  water  do  whatever  it  docs.  The  Protestants  were 
clearly  right  in  calling  this  version  of  the  invocation  of 
saints  heretical,  because  it  destroys  the  uniqueness  of 
Christ,  but  for  literary  purposes  they  continued  to  do 
it  themselves.  The  idea  is  stated  as  clearly  and  is  as 
central  to  the  poem  in  a  lovesong  of  Carew  which  seems 
to  have  got  into  the  Oxford  Book  as  an  example  of 
*  careless  ease.' 

Ask  me  no  more  where  Jove  bestows 
When  June  is  past,  the  fading  rose ;  ' 

For  in  thy  beauty's  orient  deep 
These  flowers,  as  in  their  causes,  sleep. 

The  trick  was  common  but  not  as  a  rule  forced  on 
one's  attention ;    diere  was  another  way  of  taking  the 

83 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

thing  to  make  it  seem  sensible,  and  you  could  take  it 
that  way  alone.  Queen  Elizabeth  and  the  person  of 
importance  chosen  as  a  hero  of  tragedy  had  an  obvious 
influence  on  public  affairs ;  to  the  lover  who  was  speaking 
the  world  would  seem  empty  without  the  loved  woman. 
Indeed  if  there  was  no  other  way  of  taking  it  the  thing 
would  be  poindess.  But  Donne's  use  of  it  in  the  First 
Anniversary  is  peculiar  because  there  is  no  obvious  other 
way ;  it  is  an  enormous  picture  of  the  complete  decay 
of  the  universe,  and  this  is  caused  by  the  death  of  a  girl 
of  no  importance  whom  Donne  had  never  seen.  Ben 
Jonson  said  *  if  it  had  been  written  to  the  Virgin,  it 
would  have  been  something '  but  only  Christ  would 
be  enough;  only  his  removal  from  the  world  would 
explain  the  destruction  foretold  by  astronomers.  The 
only  way  to  make  the  poem  sensible  is  to  accept  Elizabeth 
Drury  as  the  Logos.  Of  course  this  is  not  necessarily 
unchristian ;  those  few  persons  who  felt  that  life  was 
empty  after  her  death  were  supposed  to  find  in  their 
feelings  about  her  the  reality  of  the  doctrines  true  about 
Christ.  And  Donne  had  very  serious  feelings  about  the 
break-up  of  the  unified  world  of  mediaeval  thought  with 
which  to  fill  out  his  framework.  But  the  frame  is  itself 
a  symbol  of  the  break-up.  He  could  hardly  have  used 
it  if  he  had  not  felt,  with  that  secret  largeness  of  outlook 
which  is  his  fascination,  that  the  ideas  he  handled  did  not 
necessarily  belong  to  the  one  Jesus,  that  they  might  just 
as  well,  if  the  sorrowing  parents  would  pay  for  it,  be 
worked  out  for  Elizabeth  Drury. 

Evidence  as  well  as  probability,  then,  lets  one  say  that 
the  position  of  the  tragic  hero  was  felt  to  be  like  that 
of  Christ,  and  that  elements  were  exchanged  between 
them.    Indeed,  to  call  the  Passion  tragic,  putting  the  thing 

84 


DOUBLE  PLOTS 

the  other  way  round,  was  a  commonplace ;   of  which 
Herrick  provides  a  charming  example : 

Not  like  a  Thief,  shalt  Thou  ascend  the  mount, 
But  like  a  Person  of  some  high  Account ; 
The  Crosse  shall  be  Thy  Stage ;  and  Thou  shalt  there 
The  spacious  field  have  for  Thy  Theater. 

And  we  (Thy  Lovers)  while  we  see  Thee  keep 
The  Lawes  of  Action,  will  both  sigh,  and  weep. 

At  the  same  time  the  two  were  very  different,  and  the 
tragic  idea,  having  a  classical  background,  was  by  no 
means  dependent  on  the  Christian  one.     The  famous 
passage  in  Chapman  diat  uses  the  globe-metaphor,  about 
the  man  that  joins  himself  to  the  universe  and  goes  on 
4  round  as  it/  shows  how  flatly  the  idea  was  derived 
from  Roman  Stoicism ;   the  same  metaphor  for  instance 
is  in  Marcus  Aurelius  (xi.  2).    Mr.  Eliot  remarked  about 
this  that  no  man  would  join  himself  to  the  universe  i£ 
he  had  anything  better  to  join  himself  to,  and  certainly 
there  is  an  element  of  revolt  in  the  Elizabethan  use  of 
the  idea.    The  reason  that  Donne's  use  of  the  globe  is 
so  much  wittier  and  more  solid  than  Chapman's  is  that 
he  shows  this ;    his  globe  is  a  way  of  shutting  out  the 
parsons  as  well  as  of  completing  himself.    The  idea  that 
all  men  have  a  share  in  die  fundamental  and  indivisible 
Reason  was  a  stoical  idea  before  it  became  a  Christian 
one  with  the  Logos,  and  in  diese  uses  is  more  comfortable 
in  its  pagan  form.    Indeed,  the  hero  himself  stood  for  a 
set  of  ideas  covertly  opposed  to  Christianity ;  that,  is  why 
the  mythological  ideas  about  him  remain  in  the  back- 
ground.    He   stood   for   *  honour,'   pride   rather   than 
humility,   self-realisation  rather   than   self-denial,   caste 
rather  than  democracy ;  he  can  become,  as  obviously  in 

85 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  comic  hero  Macheath,  a  sort  of  defence  against 
Puritanism.  The  Elizabethans  could  use  the  separate 
systems  of  ideas  together  frankly  and  fully,  but  this  was 
no  longer  possible  after  they  had  been  fought  over  in 
the  Civil  War,  and  from  then  on  one  gets  a  more  under- 
ground connection.  Probably  the  most  permanent 
clement  was  this  curious  weight  put  covertly  into 
metaphor  or  personification. 

I  shall  list  here  a  few  examples  which  I  am  sorry  to 
have  let  get  crowded  out.  Piers  Plowman  is  the  most 
direct  case  of  the  pastoral  figure  who  turns  slowly  into 
Christ  and  ruler.  For  device  prior  to  irony,  the  tragic 
ballad  with  gay  irrelevant  refrain — *  She  leaned  her 
back  against  a  thorn  (Fine  flowers  in  the  valley).' 
For  one-in-many  business,  the  Lyhc-Wakc  Dirge  and 
the  Dies  Irac : — 

This  ae  nightc,  this  ae  nightc, 
Every  nighte  and  allc 

Recordare,  Jcsu  pie, 

Quod  sum  causa  tuae  viae, 
Ne  me  pcrdas  ilia  die. 

And  Wuthering  Heights  is  a  good  case  of  double  plot  in 
the  novel,  both  for  covert  deification  and  telling  the 
same  story  twice  with  the  two  possible  endings. 


86 


They  That  Have  Power 

Twist  of  Heroic-Pastoral  Ideas  into  an  Ironical 
Acceptance  of  Aristocracy 


I 

IT  is  agreed  that  They  that  have  power  to  hurt  and  will  do 
none  is  a  piece  of  grave  irony,  but  there  the  matter  is 
generally  left;  you  can  work  through  all  the  notes  in 
the  Variorum  without  finding  out  whether  flower,  lily, 
'  owner,'  and  person  addressed  are  alike  or  opposed. 
One  would  like  to  say  that  the  poem  has  all  possible 
such  meanings,  digested  into  some  order,  and  then  try 
to  show  how  this  is  done,  but  the  mere  number  of 
possible  interpretations  is  amusingly  too  great.  Taking 
the  simplest  view  (that  any  two  may  be  alike  in 
some  one  property)  any  one  of  the  four  either  is  or 
is  not  and  either  should  or  should  not  be  like  each 
of  the  others;  this  yields  4096  possible  movements 
of  thought,  with  other  possibilities.  The  niggler  is 
routed  here ;  one  has  honesdy  to  consider  what  seems 
important. 

*  The  best  people  are  indifferent  to  temptation  and 
detached  from  the  world ;  nor  is  this  state  selfish,  because 
they  do  good  by  unconscious  influence,  like  the  flower. 
You  must  be  like  them ;  you  are  quite  like  them  already. 
But  even  the  best  people  must  be  continually  on  their 
guard,  because  they  become  the  worst,  just  as  the  pure 
and  detached  lily  smells  worst,  once  they  fall  from  their 
perfection  ' — ('  one's  prejudice  against  them  is  only  one's 
consciousness  of  this  fact ' — the  hint  of  irony  in  the  poem 
might  be  covered  by  this).  It  is  a  coherent  enough 
Confucian  sentiment,  and  there  is  no  very  clear  hint  as 
to  irony  in  the  words.  No  doubt  as  stone  goes  inten- 
tionally too  far  for  sympathy,  and  there  is  a  suggestive 

89 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

gap  in  the  argument  between  octet  and  sestet,  but  one 
would  not  feel  this  if  it  was  Shakespeare's  only  surviving 
work. 

There  is  no  reason  why  the  subtlety  of  the  irony  in  so 
complex  a  material  must  be  capable  of  being  pegged  out 
into  verbal  explanations.     The  vague  and  generalised 
language  of  the  descriptions,  which  might  be  talking 
about  so  many  sorts  of  people  as  well  as  feeling  so  many 
things  about  them,  somehow  makes  a  unity  like  a  cross- 
roads, which  analysis  does  not  deal  with  by  exploring 
down  the  roads ;   makes  a  solid  flute  on  which  you  can 
play  a  multitude  of  tunes,  whose  solidity  no  list  of  all 
possible  tunes  would  go  far  to  explain.    The  balance  of 
feeling  is  both  very  complex  and  very  fertile;    experi- 
ences arc  recorded,   and   metaphors   invented,   in   the 
Sonnets,  winch  he  went  on  *  applying  '  as  a  dramatist, 
taking  particular  cases  of  them  as  if  they  were  wide 
generalisations,  for  the  rest  of  his  life.    One  can't  expect, 
in  writing  about  such  a  process,  to  say  anything  very 
tidy  and  complete. 

But  one  does  not  start  interpreting  out  of  the  void, 
even  though  the  poem  once  pardy  interpreted  seems  to 
stand  on  its  own.  If  this  was  Shakespeare's  only  surviving 
work  it  would  still  be  clear,  supposing  one  knew  about 
the  other  Elizabethans,  that  it  involves  somehow  their 
feelings  about  the  Machiavellian,  the  wicked  plotter 
who  is  exciting  and  civilised  and  in  some  way  right  about 
life;  which  seems  an  important  though  rather  secret 
element  in  the  romance  that  Shakespeare  extracted  from 
his  patron.  In  any  case  one  has  only  to  look  at  the  sonnets 
before  and  after  it  to  be  sure  that  it  has  some  kind  of 
irony.  The  one  before  is  full  of  fear  and  horror  at  the 
hypocrisy  he  is  so  soon  to  recommend;    and  yet  it  is 

90 


.  >•> 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

already  somehow  cuddled,  as  if  in  fascination  or  out  of 
a  refusal  to  admit  that  it  was  there. 

So  shall  I  Hue,  supposing  thou  art  true, 

Like  a  decerned  husband,  .  .  . 

For  ther  can  Hue  no  hatred  in  thine  eye 

Therefore  in  that  I  cannot  know  thy  change,  .  .  . 

How  like  Eaues  apple  doth  thy  beauty  grow, 

If  thy  sweet  vertue  answere  not  thy  show. 

So  the  summer's  flower  may  be  its  apple-blossom. 
His  virtue  is  still  sweet,  whether  he  has  any  or  not ;  the 
clash  of  fact  with  platonic  idealism  is  too  fearful  to  be 
faced  directly.  In  the  sonnet  after,  with  a  blank  and 
exhausted  humility,  it  has  been  faced;  there  remains 
for  the  expression  of  his  love,  in  the  least  flaunting  of 
poetry,  the  voice  of  caution. 

How  sweet  and  louely  dost  thou  make  the  shame,  .  .  . 
Take  heed  (deare  heart)  of  this  large  privilege. 

The  praise  of  hypocrisy  is  in  a  crucial  and  precarious 
condition  of  balance  between  these  two  states  of  mind. 

The  root  of  the  ambivalence,  I  think,  is  that  W.  H.  is 
loved  as  an  arriviste,  for  an  impudent  worldliness  that 
Shakespeare  finds  shocking  and  delightful.  The  reasons 
why  he  treated  his  poet  badly  are  the  same  as  the  reasons 
why  he  was  fascinating,  which  gives  its  immediate  point 
to  the  profound  ambivalence  about  the  selfishness  of  the 
flower.  Perhaps  he  is  like  the  cold  person  in  his  hardness 
and  worldly  judgment,  not  in  his  sensuality  and  gener- 
osity of  occasional  impulse ;  like  the  flower  in  its  beauty, 
vulnerability,  tendency  to  excite  thoughts  about  the 
shortness  of  life,  self-centrcdness,  and  power  in  spite  of 
it  to  give  pleasure,  not  in  its  innocence  and  fertility; 
but  the  irony  may  make  any  of  these  change  over. 
Both  owner  and  flower  seem  self-centred  and  inscrutable, 

9i 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

and  the  cold  person  is  at  least  like  the  lily  in  that  it  is 
symbolically  chaste,  but  the  summer's  flower,  unlike  the 
lily,  seems  to  stand  for  the  full  life  of  instinct.  It  is  not 
certain  that  the  owner  is  liable  to  fester  as  the  lily  is — 
Angelo  did,  butW.  H.  is  usually  urged  to  acquire  the 
virtues  of  Angelo.  Clearly  there  is  a  jump  from  octet 
to  sestet ;  the  flower  is  not  like  the  owner  in  its  solitude 
and  its  incapacity  to  hurt  or  simulate ;  it  might  be  because 
of  this  that  it  is  of  a  summer  only  and  may  fester ;  yet 
we  seem  chiefly  meant  to  hold  W.  H.  in  mind  and  take 
them  as  parallel.  As  for  punctuation,  the  only  full  stop 
is  at  the  end ;  all  lines  have  commas  after  them  except 
the  fourth,  eighth,  and  twelfth,  which  have  colons. 

They  that  haue  powre  to  hurt,  and  will  doc  none, 
That  doc  not  do  the  thing,  they  most  do  showc, 
Who  mouing  others,  are  themselves  as  stone, 
Vnmoucd,  could,  and  to  temptation  slow  : 

They  may  show,  while  hiding  the  alternative,  for  the 
first  couplet,  the  power  to  hurt  or  the  determination  not 
to  hurt — cruelty  or  mercy,  for  the  second,  the  strength 
due  to  chastity  or  to  sensual  experience,  for  either,  a 
reckless  or  cautious  will,  and  the  desire  for  love  or  for 
control ;  all  whether  they  arc  stealers  of  hearts  or  of 
public  power.  They  arc  a  very  widespread  group ;  we 
arc  only  sure  at  the  end  that  some  kind  of  hypocrisy  has 
been  advised  and  threatened. 

They  rightly  do  inherit  heavens  graces, 
And  husband  natures  ritches  from  expence, 

Either  '  inherit,  they  alone,  by  right '  or  *  inherit  what 
all  men  inherit  and  use  it  rightly  ' ;  these  correspond  to 
the  opposed  views  of  W.  H.  as  aristocrat  and  vulgar 
careerist.    There  is  a  similar  range  of  idea,  half  hidden 

92 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

by  the  pretence  of  easy  filling  of  the  form,  in  the  pun  on 
graces  and  shift  to  riches.  Heavens  graces  may  be  pre- 
venient  grace  (strength  from  God  to  do  well),  personal 
graces  which  seem  to  imply  heavenly  virtues  (the  charm 
by  which  you  deceive  people),  or  merely  God's  gracious 
gift  of  nature  s  riches ;  which  again  may  be  the  personal 
graces,  or  the  strength  and  taste  which  make  him  capable 
either  of  *  upholding  his  house  '  or  of  taking  his  pleasure, 
or  merely  the  actual  wealth  of  which  he  is  an  owner. 
Clearly  this  gives  plenty  of  room  for  irony  in  the  state- 
ment that  the  cold  people,  with  their  fine  claims,  do 
well  all  round ;  it  also  conveys  *  I  am  seeing  you  as  a 
whole ;  I  am  seeing  these  things  as  necessary  rather  than 
as  your  fault.' 

They  are  the  Lords  and  owners  of  their  faces, 
Others,  but  stewards  of  their  excellence : 

It  may  be  their  beauty  they  put  to  their  own  uses, 
high  or  low,  or  diey  may  just  have  poker-faces ;  this 
gives  the  same  range  of  statement.  The  capital  which 
tends  to  isolate  lords  from  its  phrase  suggests  *  they  are 
the  only  true  aristocrats ;  if  you  are  not  like  them  you 
should  not  pretend  to  be  one.'  Others  may  be  stewards 
of  their  own  excellence  (in  contrast  with  faces — '  though 
they  arc  enslaved  they  may  be  better  and  less  superficial 
than  the  cold  people  )  or  of  the  cold  people's  excellence 
(with  a  suggestion  of  '  Their  Excellencies ')  ;  the  less 
plausible  sense  is  insisted  on  by  the  comma  after  others. 
This  repeats  the  doubt  about  how  far  the  cold  people 
are  really  excellent,  and  there,  may  be  a  hint  of  a  doubt 
about  how  far  the  individual  is  isolated,  which  anticipates 
the  metaphor  of  the  flower.  And  *  stewards  of  their  own 
excellence '  may  be  like  *  stewards  of  the  buttery '  or 

93 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

like  *  stewards  of  a  certain  lord  ' ;  either '  the  good  things 
they  have  do  good  to  others,  not  to  them  '  (they  are  too 
generous ;  I  cannot  ask  you  to  aim  so  high  in  virtue,  be- 
cause I  desire  your  welfare,  not  other  peopled,  and  indeed 
because  you  wouldn't  do  it  anyway)  or  *  they  are  under 
the  power  of  their  own  impulses,  which  are  good  things 
so  long  as  they  are  not  in  power '  (they  are  deceived ; 
acts  caused  by  weakness  are  not  really  generous  at  all). 
Yet  this  may  be  the  condition  of  the  flower  and  the 
condition  for  fullness  of  life ;  you  cannot  know  before- 
hand what  life  will  bring  you  if  you  open  yourself  to 
it,  and  certainly  the  flower  docs  not ;  it  is  because  they 
are  unnatural  and  unlike  flowers  that  the  cold  people 
rule  nature,  and  the  cost  may  be  too  great.  Or  the 
flower  and  the  cold  person  may  be  two  unlike  examples 
of  the  limitation  necessary  to  success,  one  experienced  in 
its  own  nature,  the  other  in  the  world ;  both,  the  irony 
would  imply,  are  in  fact  stewards. 

There  is  a  Christian  parable  at  work  in  both  octet  and 
sestet ;  in  the  octet  that  of  the  talents.  You  will  not  be 
forgiven  for  hoarding  your  talents ;  some  sort  of  success 
is  demanded ;  you  must  at  least  use  your  powers  to  the 
full  even  if  for  your  own  squalid  purpose.  The  pain 
and  wit  and  solemnity  of  rightly,  its  air  of  summing 
up  a  long  argument,  depend  on  the  fact  that  these 
metaphors  have  been  used  to  recommend  tilings  to 
W.  H.  before. 

Natures  bequest  giucs  nothing  but  doth  lend, 
And  being  franck  she  lends  to  those  are  free  : 

Who  lets  so  faire  a  house  fall  to  decay, 
Which  husbandry  in  honour  might  uphold, 

Rightly  to  be  free  with  yourself,  in  the  first  simple 

94 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

paradox,  was  the  best  saving  of  yourself  (you  should  put 
your  money  into  marriage  and  a  son) ;  it  is  too  late  now 
to  advise  that,  or  to  say  it  without  being  sure  to  be 
understood  wrongly  (this  is  94 ;  the  first  sonnet  about  his 
taking  Shakespeare's  mistress  is  40) ;  the  advice  to  be 
generous  as  natural  has  become  the  richer  but  more 
contorted  advice  to  be  like  the  flower.  Righdy  to 
husband  nature's  riches,  earlier  in  the  sequence,  was  to 
accept  the  fact  that  one  is  only  steward  of  them ; 

Thou  that  art  now  the  worlds  fresh  ornament, 
And  only  herauld  to  the  gaudy  spring, 
Within  thine  owne  bud  buriest  thy  content, 
And  tender  chorle  makst  waste  in  niggarding  : 

die  flower  was  wrong  to  live  to  itself  alone,  and  would 
become  a  tottered  weed  (2)  whether  it  met  with  infection 
or  not. 

Though  indeed  husbandry  is  still  recommended;  it  is 
not  the  change  of  opinion  that  has  so  much  effect  but 
the  use  of  the  same  metaphors  with  a  shift  of  feeling  in 
them.  The  legal  metaphors  (debts  to  nature  and  so  forth) 
used  for  the  loving  complaint  that  the  man's  chastity 
was  selfish  are  still  used  when  he  becomes  selfish  in  his 
debauchery;  Shakespeare's  own  notation  here  seems  to 
teach  him ;  the  more  curiously  because  the  metaphors 
were  used  so  flatly  in  the  earliest  sonnets  (1,  2,  4,  6,  then 
13  ;  not  again  till  now),  only  formally  urging  marriage, 
and  perhaps  written  to  order.  It  is  like  using  a  mathe- 
matical identity  which  implies  a  proof  about  a  particular 
curve  and  then  finding  that  it  has  a  quite  new  meaning 
if  you  take  the  old  constants  as  variables.  It  is  these 
metaphors  that  have  grown,  till  they  involve  relations 
between  a  man's  powers  and  their  use,  his  nature  and  his 

95 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

will,  the  individual  and  the  society,  which  could  be 
applied  afterwards  to  all  human  circumstances. 

The  sommcrs  flowre  is  to  the  sommer  sweet, 
Though  to  it  selfe,  it  onely  liue  and  die, 

The  use  of  the  summer's  flower  about  a  human  being 
is  enough  to  put  it  at  us  that  the  flower  will  die  by  the 
end  of  summer,  that  the  man's  life  is  not  much  longer, 
and  that  the  pleasures  of  the  creature  therefore  cannot 
be  despised  for  what  they  are.  Sweet  to  the  summer 
(said  of  die  flower),  since  the  summer  is  omnipresent 
and  in  a  way  Nature  herself,  may  mean  *  sweet  to  God  ' 
(said  of  the  man) ;  or  may  mean  *  adding  to  the  general 
sweetness ;  sweet  to  everybody  that  comes  across  it  in 
its  time.'  It  may  do  good  to  others  though  not  by 
effort  or  may  simply  be  a  good  end  in  itself  (or  com- 
bining these,  may  only  be  able  to  do  good  by  concen- 
trating on  itself  as  an  end) ;  a  preparatory  evasion  of  the 
central  issue  about  egotism. 

Either  *  though  it  lives  only  for  itself  or  '  though,  in 
its  own  opinion,  so  far  as  it  can  see,  it  does  no  more  than 
live  and  die.'  In  the  first  it  is  a  rose,  extravagant  and 
doing  good  because  the  public  likes  to  see  it  flaunting ; 
in  the  second  a  violet,  humble  and  doing  good  in  private 
through  an  odour  of  sanctity.  It  is  the  less  plausible 
sense  which  is  insisted  o.i  by  the  comma  after  itself. 
Or  you  may  well  say  that  the  flower  is  neither,  but  the 
final  lily;  the  whole  passage  is  hinting  at  the  lilies  of 
the  field  like  whom  Solomon  was  not  arrayed. 

This  parable  itself  combines  what  die  poem  so  ingeni- 
ously keeps  on  combining ;  the  personal  power  of  beauty 
and  the  political  power  of  wisdom ;  so  as  to  imply  that 
the  political  power  has  in  itself  a  sort  of  beauty  and  the 
personal  beauty,  however  hollow  it  may  be,  a  sort  of 

96 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

moral  grandeur  through  power.  But  in  England 
1  consider  the  lilies  of  the  field,'  were  we  not  at  once 
told  of  their  glory,  would  suggest  lilies-of-the-valley ; 
that  name  indeed  occurs  in  the  Song  of  Solomon,  in 
surprising  correspondence  to  the  obviously  grandiose 
Rose  of  Sharon.  Shakespeare,  I  think,  had  done  what 
the  inventor  of  the  name  must  have  done,  had  read  into 
the  random  flower-names  of  the  Bible  the  same  rich 
clash  of  suggestion — an  implied  mutual  comparison  that 
elevates  both  parties — as  he  makes  here  between  the 
garden  flower  and  the  wild  flower.  The  first  sense 
(the  rose)  gives  the  root  idea — *  a  brilliant  aristocrat 
like  you  gives  great  pleasure  by  living  as  he  likes;  for 
such  a  person  the  issue  of  selfishness  does  not  arise ' ; 
this  makes  W.  H.  a  Renaissance  Magnificent  Man, 
combining  all  the  virtues  with  a  manysidedness  like  that 
of  these  phrases  about  him.  The  unlikcncss  of  the  cold 
people  and  the  flowers,  if  you  accept  them  as  like,  then 
implies  *  man  is  not  placed  like  flowers  and  though  he 
had  best  imitate  them  may  be  misled  in  doing  so ;  the 
Machiavellian  is  much  more  really  like  the  flower  than 
the  Swain  is.'  And  yet  there  is  a  suggestion  in  the 
comparison  to  the  flower  (since  only  beauty  is  demanded 
of  it — Sonnet  54  made  an  odd  and  impermanent  attempt 
at  quelling  this  doubt  by  equating  truth  with  scent) 
that  W.  H.  has  only  power  to  keep  up  an  air  of  reconcil- 
ing in  himself  the  inconsistent  virtues,  or  even  of  being 
a  Machiavellian  about  the  matter,  and  that  it  is  this  that 
puts  him  in  danger  like  the  flower.  Or  however  genuine 
he  may  be  he  is  pathetic ;  such  a  man  is  all  too  *  natural ' ; 
there  is  no  need  to  prop  up  our  ideas  about  him  with  an 
aristocratic  *  artificial  *  flower.  So  this  class-centred 
praise  is  then  careful  half  to  hide  itself  by  adding  the 

G  97 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

second  sense  and  die  humble  flower,  and  this  leads  it  to 
a  generalisation :  *  all  men  do  most  good  to  others  by 
fulfilling  their  own  natures.'  Full  as  they  are  of  Christian 
echoes,  the  Sonnets  are  concerned  with  an  idea  strong 
enough  to  be  balanced  against  Christianity;  they  state 
the  opposite  to  the  idea  of  self-sacrifice. 

But  the  machinery  of  the  statement  is  peculiar ;  its 
clash  of  admiration  and  contempt  seems  dependent  on  a 
clash  of  feeling  about  the  classes.  One  might  connect  it 
widi  that  curious  trick  of  pastoral  which  for  extreme 
courdy  flattery — perhaps  to  give  self-respect  to  both 
poet  and  patron,  to  show  that  the  poci  is  not  ignorantly 
easy  to  impress,  nor  the  patron  to  flatter — writes  about 
the  poorest  people ;  and  with  those  jazz  songs  which 
give  an  intense  effect  of  luxury  and  silk  underwear  by 
pretending  to  be  about  slaves  naked  in  the  fields.  To 
those  who  care  chiefly  about  biography  this  trick  must 
seem  monstrously  tantalising ;  Wilde  built  the  paradox 
of  his  essay  on  it,  and  it  is  true  that  Shakespeare  might 
have  set  the  whole  thing  to  work  from  the  other  end 
about  a  highly  trained  mudlark  brought  in  to  act  his 
princesses.  But  it  is  the  very  queerness  of  the  trick  that 
makes  it  so  often  useful  in  building  models  of  the  human 
mind;  and  yet  the  power  no  less  than  the  universality 
of  this  poem  depends  on  generalising  the  trick  so  com- 
pletely as  to  seem  independent  of  it. 

But  if  that  flovvre  with  base  infection  meete, 

The  basest  weed  out-braues  his  dignity : 
For  sweetest  tilings  turn  sowrest  by  their  deedes, 
Lilies  that  fester,  smell  far  worse  than  weeds. 

It  is  not  clear  how  the  metaphor  from  *  meet '  acts ; 
it  may  be  like  *  meet  with  disaster  ' — *  if  it  catches  infec- 
tion, which  would  be  bad  luck/  or  like  meeting  someone 

98 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

in  the  street,   as  most  men  do  safely — ■  any  contact 
with  infection  is  fatal  to  so  peculiarly  placed  a  creature.' 
The  first  applies  to  the  natural  and  unprotected  flower, 
the  second  to  the  lily  that  has  the  hubris  and  fate  of 
greatness.     They  are  not  of  course  firmly  separated, 
but  lilies  are  separated  from  the  flower  by  a  colon  and 
an   intervening   generalisation,   whereas   the   flower  is 
only  separated  from  the  cold  people  (not  all  of  whom 
need  be  lilies)  by  a  colon ;   certainly  the  flower  as  well 
as  the  lily  is  in  danger,  but  this  does  not  make  them 
identical  and  equal  to  W.  H.    The  neighbouring  sonnets 
continually  say  that  his  deeds  can  do  nothing  to  destroy 
his  sweetness,  and  this  seems  to  make  the  terrible  last 
line  point  at  him  somewhat  less  directly.     One  may 
indeed  take  it   as  '  Though  so   debauched,  you   keep 
your  looks.    Only  mean  people  who  never  give  them- 
selves heartily  to  anything  can  do  that.     But  the  best 
hypocrite  is  found  out  in  the  end,  and  shown  as  the 
worst/     But  Shakespeare  may  also  be  congratulating 
W.  H.  on  an  imperfection  winch  acts  as  a  preservative ; 
he  is  a  son  of  the  world  and  can  protect  himself,  like 
the  cold  people,  or  a  spontaneous  and  therefore  fresh 
sinner,  like  the  flower ;   he  may  safely  stain,  as  heaven's 
sun,  the  kisser  of  carrion,  stainedi.    At  any  rate  it  is 
not  of  virginity,  at  tins  stage,  that  he  can  be  accused. 
The  smell  of  a  big  lily  is  so  lush  and  insolent,  suggests 
so   powerfully  both   incense   and  pampered  flesh — the 
traditional   metaphor  about  it  is  so   perfect — that  its 
festering  can  only  be  that  due  to  the  hubris  of' spirit- 
uality;  it    is    ironically   generous   to   apply   it    to   the 
careerist   to   whom   hypocrisy   is   recommended ;   and 
yet  in  the  fact  that  we  seem  meant  to  apply  it  to  him 
there  is  a  glance  backwards,  as  if  to  justify  him,  at  the 

99 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

ambition  involved  in  even  the  most  genuine  attempt  on 
heaven.  You  may  say  that  Shakespeare  dragged  in  the 
last  line  as  a  quotation  from  Edward  III  that  doesn't 
quite  fit;  it  is  also  possible  that  (as  often  happens  to 
poets,  who  tend  to  make  in  their  lives  a  situation  they 
have  already  written  about)  he  did  not  till  now  see  the 
full  width  of  its  application. 

In  a  sense  the  total  effect  is  an  evasion  of  Shakespeare's 
problem ;  it  gives  him  a  way  of  praising  W.  H.  in 
spite  of  anything.  In  the  flower  the  oppositions  arc 
transcended;  it  is  because  it  is  self-concentrated  that  it 
has  so  much  to  give  and  because  it  is  undesigning  that 
it  is  more  grandiose  in  beauty  than  Solomon.  But  it 
is  held  in  mind  chiefly  for  comfort ;  none  of  the  people 
suggested  to  us  are  able  to  imitate  it  very  successfully; 
nor  if  they  could  would  they  be  safe.  Yet  if  W.  H. 
has  festered,  that  at  least  makes  him  a  lily,  and  at  least 
not  a  stone ;  if  he  is  not  a  lily,  he  is  in  the  less  danger 
of  festering. 

I  must  try  to  sum  up  the  effect  of  so  complex  an  irony, 
half  by  trying  to  follow  it  through  a  gradation.  *  I  am 
praising  to  you  the  contemptible  things  you  admire, 
you  little  plotter;  this  is  how  the  others  try  to  betray 
you  through  flattery ;  yet  it  is  your  little  generosity, 
though  it  show  only  as  lewdness,  which  will  betray 
you ;  for  it  is  wise  to  be  cold,  both  because  you  are  too 
inflammable  and  because  I  have  been  so  much  hurt  by 
you  who  arc  heartless ;  yet  I  can  the  better  forgive  you 
through  that  argument  from  our  common  isolation; 
I  must  praise  to  you  your  very  faults,  especially  your 
selfishness,  because  you  can  only  now  be  safe  by  culti- 
vating them  further ;  yet  this  is  the  most  dangerous  of 
necessities;    people  are  greedy  for  your  fall  as  for  that 

ioo 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

of  any  of  the  great;  indeed  no  one  can  rise  above 
common  life,  as  you  have  done  so  fully,  without  in 
the  same  degree  sinking  below  it ;  you  have  made  this 
advice  real  to  me,  because  I  cannot  despise  it  for  your 
sake;  I  am  only  sure  that  you  are  valuable  and  in 
danger/ 


101 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 


II 

One  may  point  out  that  the  reason  so  little  can  be 
deduced  about  W.  H.,  the  reason  that  Butler  and  Wilde 
(though  he  had  so  much  sympathy  for  snobbery) 
could  make  a  plausible  case  for  his  being  not  a  patron 
but  an  actor,  is  that  this  process  of  interaction  between 
metaphors,  which  acts  like  a  generalisation,  is  always 
carried  so  far ;  the  contradictory  elements  in  the  relation 
are  brought  out  and  opposed  absolutely,  so  that  we 
cannot  know  their  proportions  in  real  life.  It  is  hard 
not  to  go  off  down  one  of  the  roads  at  the  crossing, 
and  get  one  plain  meaning  for  the  poem  from  that, 
because  Shakespeare  himself  did  that  so  very  effectively 
afterwards ;  a  part  of  the  situation  of  the  Sonnets,  the 
actual  phrases  designed  for  it,  are  given  to  Prince 
Henry,  to  Angelo,  to  Troilus,  to  the  Greek  army; 
getting  further  from  the  original  as  time  went  on.  I 
shall  look  at  the  first  two.  It  is  only  partly  true  that 
this  untidy  process,  if  successful,  might  tell  one  more 
about  the  original  situation;  discoveries  of  language 
and  feeling  made  from  a  personal  situation  may  develop 
themselves  so  that  they  can  be  applied  to  quite  different 
dramatic  situations ;  but  to  know  about  these  might 
tell  one  more  about  the  original  discoveries.  The  fact 
that  the  feelings  in  this  sonnet  could  be  uSed  for  such 
different  people  as  Angelo  and  Prince  Henry,  different 
both  in  their  power  and  their  coldness,  is  an  essential 
part  of  its  breadth. 

The  crucial  first  soliloquy  of  Prince  Henry  was  put 
in  to  save  his  reputation  with  the  audience ;  it  is  a  wilful 
destruction  of  his  claims  to  generosity,  indeed  to  honesty, 

102 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

if  only  in  FalstafTs  sense ;  but  this  is  not  to  say  that 
it  was  a  mere  job  with  no  feeling  behind  it.  It  was  a 
concession  to  normal  and  decent  opinion  rather  than 
to  the  groundlings ;  the  man  who  was  to  write  Henry  V 
could  feel  the  force  of  that  as  well  as  take  care  of  his 
plot;  on  the  other  hand,  it  cannot  have  been  written 
without  bitterness  against  the  prince.  It  was  probably 
written  about  two  years  after  the  second,  more  intimate 
dedication  to  Southampton,  and  is  almost  a  cento  from 
the  Sonnets. 

We  would  probably  find  the  prince  less  puzzling  if 
Shakespeare  had  re-writttn  Henry  VI  in  his  prime. 
The  theme  at  the  back  of  the  series,  after  all,  is  that  the 
Henries  are  usurpers;  however  great  the  virtues  of 
Henry  V  may  be,  however  righdy  the  nation  may  glory 
in  his  deeds,  there  is  something  fishy  about  him  and  the 
justice  of  Heaven  will  overtake  his  son.  In  having  some 
sort  of  double  attitude  to  the  prince  Shakespeare  was 
merely  doing  his  work  as  a  history-writer.  For  the 
critic  to  drag  in  a  personal  situation  from  the  Sonnets 
is  neither  an  attack  nor  a  justification ;  it  claims  only  to 
show  where  the  feelings  the  play  needed  were  obtained. 

Sir  Walter  Raleigh  said  that  the  play  was  written 
when  Shakespeare  was  becoming  successful  and  buying 
New  Place,  so  that  he  became  interested  in  the  problems 
of  successful  people  like  Henries  IV  and  V  rather  than  in 
poetical  failures  like  Richard  II.  On  this  view  we  are 
to  see  in  Prince  Henry  the  Swan  himself;  he  has  made 
low  friends  only  to  get  local  colour  out  of  them,  and 
now  drops  them  with  a  bang  because  he  has  made  money 
and  grand  friends.  It  is  possible  enough,  though  I  don't 
know  why  it  was  thought  pleasant;  anyway  such  a 
personal  association  is  far  at  the  back  of  the  mind  and 

103 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

one  would  expect  several  to  be  at  work  together. 
Henry  might  carry  a  grim  externalisation  of  self-contempt 
as  well  as  a  still  half-delighted  reverberation  of  South- 
ampton ;  FalstafF  an  attack  on  some  rival  playwright 
or  on  Florio  as  tutor  of  Southampton  as  well  as  a  savage 
and  joyous  externalisation  of  self-contempt.  But  I 
think  only  the  second  of  these  alternatives  fits  in  with  the 
language  and  echoes  a  serious  personal  situation.  Henry's 
soliloquy  demands  from  us  just  the  sonnets'  mood  of 
bitter  complaisance;  the  young  man  must  still  be 
praised  and  loved,  however  he  betrays  his  intimates, 
because  we  see  him  all  shining  with  the  virtues  of 
success.  So  I  shall  now  fancy  Falstaff  as  Shakespeare 
(he  has  obviously  some  great  forces  behind  him)  and 
Henry  as  the  patron  who  has  recendy  betrayed  him. 

I  know  you  all,  and  will  a-while  vphold 
The  vnyoak'd  humor  of  your  idlenesse : 
Yet  hecrein  will  I  imitate  the  Sunne, 
Who  doth  permit  the  base  contagious  cloudes 
To  smother  vp  his  Beauty  from  the  world, 
That  when  he  please  again  to  be  himselfe, 
Being  wanted,  he  may  be  more  wondred  at, 
By  breaking  through  the  foule  and  vgly  mists 
Of  vapours,  that  did  seeme  to  strangle  him. 

This  seems  quite  certainly  drawn  from  the  earliest 
and  most  pathetic  of  the  attempts  to  justify  W.  H. 

Fvll  many  a  glorious  morning  haue  I  seene,  .  .  . 
Anon  permit  the  basest  cloudes  to  ride,  .  .  . 
With  ougly  rack  on  his  celestiall  face,  .  .  . 
Suns  of  the  world  may  stainc,  when  heauens  sun  staineth. 

But  it  is  turned  backwards ;  the  sun  is  now  to  free  itself 
from  the  clouds  by  the  very  act  of  betrayal.  *  Oh  that 
you  were  yourself'  (13)  and  *  have  eyes  to  wonder' 

104 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

(106)  arc  given  the  same  twist  into  humility;  Shake- 
speare admits,  with  FalstafF  in  front  of  him,  that  the 
patron  would  be  better  off  without  friends  in  low  life. 
The  next  four  lines,  developing  the  idea  that  you  make 
the  best  impression  on  people  by  only  treating  them 
well  at  rare  intervals,  are  a  prosaic  re-hash  of  *  Therefore 
are  feasts  so  solemn  and  so  rare,'  etc.  (52);  what  was 
said  of  the  policy  of  the  friend  is  now  used  for  the  policy 
of  the  politician,  though  in  both  play  and  sonnet  they 
arc  opposed.  The  connection  in  the  next  lines  is  more 
doubtful. 

So  when  this  loose  behaviour  I  throw  off 
And  pay  the  debt  I  never  promised 
By  so  much  better  than  my  word  I  am 
By  so  much  shall  I  falsify  men's  hopes 

(He  does  indeed,  by  just  so  much.)  This  debt  looks  like 
an  echo  of  the  debt  to  nature  there  was  so  much  doubt 
about  W.  H.'s  method  of  paying ;  it  has  turned  into  a 
debt  to  society.  At  any  rate  in  the  sonnet-like  final 
couplet 

I'll  so  offend,  to  make  offence  a  skill 

('  The  tongue  that  tells  the  story  of  thy  days .  .  .  Cannot 
dispraise  but  in  a  kind  of  praise ')  we  have  the  central 
theme  of  all  the  sonnets  of  apology ;  the  only  difference, 
though  it  is  a  big  one,  is  that  this  man  says  it  about 
himself. 

One  element  at  least  in  this  seems  to  reflect  a  further 
doubt  on  to  the  sonnet  I  have  considered;  the  prince 
may  be  showing  by  this  soliloquy  that  he  can  avoid 
infection,  or  may  be  an  example  of  how  sour  a  lord  and 
owner  can  turn  in  his  deeds  on  Coronation  Day.  The 
last    irony    and    most    contorted    generosity    one    can 

105 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

extract  from  the  sonnet  is  in  the  view  that  Shakespeare 
himself  is  the  basest  weed,  that  to  meet  him  is  to  meet 
infection,  that  the  result  of  being  faithful  to  his  friendship 
would  be  to  be  outbraved  even  by  him,  that  the  advice 
to  be  a  cold  person  and  avoid  the  fate  of  the  lily  is  advice 
to  abandon  Shakespeare  once  for  all. 

This  interpretation  is  more  than  once  as  firmly  con- 
tradicted by  Falstaff  as  it  will  be  by  my  readers.  He 
first  comes  on  in  a  great  fuss  about  lus  good  name ;  he 
has  been  rated  in  the  streets  for  leading  astray  Harry. 
At  the  end  of  the  scene  we  find  that  this  was  unfair  to 
him ;  the  prince  makes  clear  by  the  soliloquy  that  he  is 
well  able  to  look  after  himself.  Meanwhile  Falstaff 
amuses  himself  by  turning  the  accusation  die  other  way 
round. 

O,  thou  hast  damnable  iteration,  and  art  indeede  able  to  corrupt 
a  Saint.  Thou  hast  done  much  harme  unto  me  Hal,  God  forgiue 
thee  for  it.  Before  I  knew  thee  Hal,  I  knew  nothing  :  and  now 
I  am  (if  a  man  shold  speake  truly)  little  better  than  one  of  the 
wicked.  I  must  giuc  ouer  this  life,  and  I  will  giue  it  over :  and 
I  do  not,  I  am  a  Villaine.  He  be  damn'd  for  never  a  Kings  sonne 
in  Christcndome. 

Prin.  Where  shall  we  take  a  purse  to  morrow,  Iackc  f 

The  audience  were  not  expected  to  believe  this  aspect 
of  the  matter,  but  there  may  well  be  some  truth  in  it  if 
applied  to  the  situation  Shakespeare  had  at  the  back  of 
his  mind.  The  other  aspect  is  also  preserved  for  us  in 
the  Sonnets. 

I  may  not  euer-more  acknowledge  thee, 
Least  my  bewailed  guilt  should  do  thec  shame, 
Nor  thou  with  publike  kindncsse  honour  me, 
Unlcsse  thou  take  that  honour  from  thy  name : 

*  I  not  only  warn  you  against  bad  company ;   I  admit  I 

1 06 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

am  part  of  it.'  One  could  throw  in  here  that  letter  about 
Southampton  wasting  his  time  at  the  playhouse  and  out 
of  favour  with  the  Queen. 

There  arc  two  sums  of  a  thousand  pounds  concerned, 
so  that  the  phrase  is  kept  echoing  through  both  parts 
of  the  history ;  it  seems  to  become  a  symbol  of  FalstarT's 
hopes  and  his  betrayal.  The  first  he  got  by  the  robbery 
at  Gadshill,  and  the  prince  at  once  robbed  him  of  it ; 
supposedly  to  give  back  to  its  owner,  if  you  take  his 
reluctance  to  steal  seriously,  but  we  hear  no  more  of 
that.  He  says  he  will  give  it  to  Francis  the  drawer,  and 
Falstaff  pacifies  the  hostess  by  saying  he  will  get  it  back. 

Part  I,  m.  iii. 

Hostess.  „  .  .  and  sayde  this  other  day,  You  ought  him  a 
thousand  pound. 

Prince.  Sirrah,  do  I  owe  you  a  thousand  pound  ? 

Falstaff.  A  thousand  pound  Hah  A  Million.  Thy  loue  is 
worth  a  Million  :  thou  ow'st  me  thy  loue. 

He  will  pay  neither.  But  Falstaff  gets  another  thousand 
pounds  from  Shallow,  and  the  phrase  is  all  he  clings  to 
in  die  riddling  sentence  at  his  final  discomfiture :  *  Master 
Shallow,  I  owe  you  a  thousand  pound.'  This  is  necessary, 
to  seem  calm  and  reassure  Shallow ;  it  is  cither  a  sweeping 
gesture  of  renunciation  ('  What  use  to  me  now  is  the 
money  I  need  never  have  repaid  to  this  fool  ? ')  or  a 
comfort  since  it  reminds  him  that  he  has  got  the  money 
and  certainly  won't  repay  it ;  but  it  is  meant  also  for  the 
king  to  hear  and  remember  ('  I  class  you  with  Shallow 
and  the  rest  of  my  friends ').  1  cannot  help  fancying 
an  obscure  connection  between  this  sum  and  the  thousand 
pounds  which,  we  are  told,  Southampton  once  gave 
Shakespeare,  to  go  through  with  a  purchase  that  he 
had  a  mind  to. 

107 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

It  is  as  well  to  look  at  Falstaff  in  general  for  a  moment, 
to  show  what  this  tender  attitude  to  him  has  to  fit  in 
with.  The  plot  treats  him  as  a  simple  Punch,  whom  you 
laugh  at  with  good-humour,  though  he  is  wicked, 
because  he  is  always  knocked  down  and  always  bobs 
up  again.  (Our  attitude  to  him  as  a  Character  entirely 
depends  on  the  Plot,  and  yet  he  is  a  Character  who  very 
nearly  destroyed  the  Plot  as  a  whole.)  People  some- 
times take  advantage  of  this  to  view  him  as  a  lovable 
old  dear;  a  notion  which  one  can  best  refute  by  con- 
sidering him  as  an  officer. 

Part  I.  v.  iii. 

I  haue  led  my  rag  of  Muffins  where  they  are  pepper'd : 
there's  not  three  of  my  1 50  left  alive,  and  they  for  the  Townes 
end,  to  beg  during  life. 

We  saw  him  levy  a  tax  in  bribes  on  the  men  he  left ; 
he  now  kills  all  the  weaklings  he  conscripted,  in  order  to 
keep  their  pay.  A  large  proportion  of  the  groundlings 
consisted  of  disbanded  soldiers  who  had  suffered  under 
such  a  system ;  the  laughter  was  a  roar  of  hatred  here ; 
he  is  *  comic '  like  a  Miracle  Play  Herod.  (Whereas 
Harry  has  no  qualities  that  are  obviously  not  W.  H.'s.) 
And  yet  it  is  out  of  his  defence  against  this,  the  least 
popularisable  charge  against  him,  that  he  makes  his 
most  unanswerable  retort  to  the  prince. 

Prince.  Tell  me,  Jack,  whose  fellows  are  these  that  come  after  ? 

Fal.  Mine,  Hal,  mine. 

Prince.  I  never  did  see  such  pitiful  rascals. 

Fal.  Tut,  tut ;  good  enough  to  toss ;  food  for  powder,  food 
for  powder ;  they'll  fill  a  pit  as  well  as  better ;  tush,  man,  mortal 
men,  mortal  men. 

Mortal  conveys  both  *  all  men  are  in  the  same  boat,  all 

108 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

equal  before  God '  and  *  all  you  want  is  slaughter.' 
No  one  in  the  audience  was  tempted  to  think  Harry  as 
wicked  as  his  enemy  Hotspur,  who  deserved  death  as 
much  as  Lear  for  wanting  to  divide  England.  But  this 
remark  needed  to  be  an  impudent  cover  for  villainy 
if  the  strength  of  mind  and  heart  in  it  were  not  to  be 
too  strong,  to  make  the  squabbles  of  ambitious  and 
usurping  persons  too  contemptible. 

On  the  other  hand,  Falstaff 's  love  for  the  prince  is 
certainly  meant  as  a  gap  in  his  armour;  one  statement 
(out  of  so  many)  of  this  comes  where  the  prince  is 
putting  his  life  in  danger  and  robbing  him  of  the  (stolen) 
thousand  pounds. 

I  haue  forsworne  his  company  hourely  any  time  this  two  and 
twenty  yeares,  and  yet  I  am  bewitcht  with  the  Rogues  company. 
If  the  Rascal  haue  not  giucn  me  medecines  to  make  me  loue  him, 
He  be  hang'd  ;  it  could  not  be  else  ;  I  haue  drunkc  Medecines. 

He  could  continually  be  made  to  say  such  things  without 
stopping  the  laugh  at  him,  partly  because  one  thinks  he 
is  pretending  love  to  the  prince  for  his  own  interest; 
'  never  any  man's  thought  keeps  the  roadway '  as  well 
as  those  of  the  groundlings  who  think  him  a  hypocrite 
about  it,  but  this  phrase  of  mockery  at  them  is  used 
only  to  dignify  the  prince;  the  more  serious  Falstaff's 
expression  of  love  becomes  the  more  comic  it  is,  whether 
as  hopeless  or  as  hypocrisy.  But  to  stretch  one's  mind 
round  the  whole  character  (as  is  generally  admitted) 
one  must  take  him,  though  as  the  supreme  expression 
of  the  cult  of  mockery  as  strength  and  the  comic  idealisa- 
tion of  freedom,  yet  as  both  villainous  and  tragically 
ill-used. 

Angelo  is  further  from  the  sonnets  than  Henry  both 
in  date  and  situation ;   he  is  merely  an  extreme,  perhaps 

109 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

not  very  credible,  example  of  the  cold  person  and  the 
lily;  both  simply  as  chaste  and  as  claiming  to  be  more 
than  human,  which  involves  being  at  least  liable  to  be 
as  much  less.  He  has  odd  connections  with  this  sonnet 
through  Edward  III,  which  may  help  to  show  that  diere 
is  a  real  connection  of  ideas.  In  the  following  lines  he 
is  recoiling  with  horror  from  the  idea  that  Isabella  has 
been  using  her  virtue  as  a  temptation  for  him,  which 
was  just  what  her  brother  expected  her  to  do  (I.  ii.  185 — 
she  is  a  cold  person  but  can  *  move  men  '). 
II.  ii.  165-8. 

Not  she :  nor  doth  she  tempt ;  but  it  is  I, 
That,  lying  by  the  Violet  in  the  Sunne, 
Doe  as  the  Carrion  do's,  not  as  the  flowre, 
Corrupt  with  vertuous  season : 

Edward  HI  is  also  a  man  in  authority  tempting  a  chaste 
woman,  and  he  too  uses  the  notion  that  her  qualities 
are  a  temptation,  so  that  it  is  half  her  fault. 

II.  i.  58. 

the  queen  of  beauty's  queens  shall  see 
Herself  the  ground  of  my  infirmity. 

Both  Angelo's  metaphor  and  the  chief  line  of  this  sonnet 
come  from  a  speech  by  the  lady's  father,  which  contains 
the  germ  of  most  of  the  ideas  we  are  dealing  with. 

II.  i.  430-457. 

The  greater  man,  the  greater  is  the  thing, 
Be  it  good  or  bad,  that  he  shall  undertake  .  .  . 
The  freshest  summer's  day  doth  soonest  taint 
The  loathed  carrion  that  it  seems  to  kiss  .  .  . 
Lilies  that  fester  smell  far  worse  than  weeds ; 
And  every  glory  that  inclines  to  sin, 
The  shame  is  treble  by  the  opposite. 

The  freshest  summer's  day  is  always  likely  to  kiss  carrion, 

no 


I 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

and  the  suggestion  from  this  is  that  the  great  man  is 
always  likely  to  do  great  harm  as  well  as  great  good. 
The  sun  kissing  carrion  is  brought  out  again  both  for 
FalstafFand  by  Hamlet  (i  Henry  IV,  II.  iv.  113  ;  Hamlet, 
II.  ii.  158) ;  it  is  clear  that  the  complex  of  metaphor  in 
this  speech,  whether  Shakespeare  wrote  it  or  not, 
developed  afterwards  as  a  whole  in  his  mind. 

The  obvious  uses  of  the  language  of  the  Sonnets  about 
Angelo  all  come  in  the  first  definition  of  his  character 
by  the  Duke ;  once  started  like  this  he  goes  off  on  his 
own.  The  fascination  of  the  irony  of  the  passage  is  that 
it  applies  to  Angelo's  incorruptible  virtues,  associated 
with  his  chastity,  the  arguments  and  metaphors  which  had 
been  used  to  urge  abrogation  of  chastity  on  W.  H. ; 
nor  is  this  irrelevant  to  the  play.  As  in  virtues,  torches, 
and  fine  touches,  its  language,  here  and  throughout,  is 
always  perversely  on  the  edge  of  a  bawdy  meaning ; 
even  belongings  may  have  a  suggestion,  helped  out  by 
'  longings,*  of  nature's  gift  of  desire.  It  seems  impossible 
even  to  praise  the  good  qualities  of  Angelo  without 
bringing  into  die  hearer's  mind  those  other  good  qualities 
that  Angelo  refuses  to  recognise.  The  most  brilliant 
example  of  this  trick  in  the  play  is  the  continual  pun  on 
sense,  for  sensuality,  sensiblcness  (which  implies  the 
claim  of  Lucio)  and  sensibility  (which  implies  a  further 
claim  of  the  poet).  The  first  use  may  be  unequivocal, 
as  if  to  force  the  sexual  meaning  on  our  notice. 

I.  iv.  59.  The  wanton  stings,  and  motions  of  the  sencc. 

II.  ii.  141.    Angelo.    Shee  speakes,  and  'tis  such  sence 

That  my  sencc  breeds  with  it ;  fare  you  well. 
II.  ii.  168.  Can  it  be 

That  Modesty  may  more  betray  our  Sencc 
Than  womans  lightnesse  i 

III 


i 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

II.  iv.  73.  Nay,  but  hcarc  mc, 

Your  scnce  pursues  not  mine:  cither  you  arc 
ignorant, 

Or  seeme  so  craft(il)y ;  and  that's  not  good. 
IV.  iv.  27.  He  should  haue  liu'd, 

Save  that  his  riotous  youth  with  dangerous 
sence, 

Might  in  the  times  to  come  have  ta'en  revenge. 
V.i.  225.  Mariana.  As  there  is  sence  in  truth,  and  truth  in  vertue, 

I  am  affianced  this  man's  wife,  as  strongly 

As  words  could  make  vp  vowes : 

But  this  sort  of  thing  docs  not  depend  on  echoes  from 
the  Sonnets,  and  I  think  those  that  occur  have  a  further 
effect. 

Thy  selfe,  and  thy  belongings 
Are  not  thine  owne  so  proper,  as  to  waste 
Thy  selfe  upon  thy  vertues ;  they  on  thee : 
Heauen  doth  with  us,  as  we,  with  Torches  doe, 
Not  light  them  for  themselves :  For  if  our  vertues 
Did  not  goe  forth  of  us,  'twere  all  alike 
As  if  we  had  them  not :  Spirits  are  not  finely  touch'd, 
But  to  fine  issues :  nor  nature  never  lends 
The  smallest  scruple  of  her  excellence, 
But  like  a  thrifty  goddessc,  she  determines 
Her  selfe  the  glory  of  a  crcditour, 
Both  thanks,  and  vse ; 

1  All  are  but  stewards  of  her  excellence  ' — indeed  their 
in  the  sonnet  might  refer  back  to  nature's  riches.  Even 
Angclo  is  wrong  to  think  he  can  be  a  lord  and  owner, 
though  he  seems  the  extreme  case  of  those  capable  of 
reserve  and  power.  He  is  a  torch  whom  nature  tricks 
because  she  destroys  it  by  making  it  brilliant;  it  was 
because  he  accepted  office  and  prepared  to  use  his  virtues 
that  she  could  trick  him  all  but  disastrously  into  using 
more  of  them  than  he  intended.     For  *  virtues '  mean 

112 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

both  '  good  qualities '  and  ■  capacities '  ('  a  dormitive 
virtue ')  whether  for  good  or  ill ;  the  same  ambivalent 
attitude  both  towards  worldly  goods  and  towards  what 
claim  to  be  spiritual  goods  is  conveyed  by  tins  as  by  the 
clash  between  heaven  s  graces  and  nature's  riches.  The 
same  pun  and  irony  on  it,  with  a  hint  of  a  similar  move- 
ment of  thought  about  honour,  arc  used  when  Isabella 
takes  leave  of  Angelo  after  her  first  interviews. 

II.  ii.  162-4.  Isab.  Sauc  your  Honour. 

Anc.  From  thee :  cucn  from  thy  vcrtue. 

What's  this?  what's  this?  is  this  her  fault,  or 

mine? 
The  Tempter,  or  the  Tempted,  who  sins  most  t 

It  is  his  virtues  and  Isabella's  between  them  that  both 
trick  him  and  nearly  destroy  Claudio.  Not  of  course 
that  this  is  straightforward  satire  against  virtue  in  the 
sense  of  chastity ;  the  first  great  speech  of  Claudio  about 
*  too  much  liberty  '  has  all  the  weight  and  horror  of  the 
lust  sonnet  (129)  from  which  it  is  drawn ;  only  the  still 
greater  mockery  of  Claudio  could  so  drag  the  play  back 
to  its  attack  on  Puritanism. 

The  issue  indeed  is  more  general  than  the  sexual  one ; 
it  is  *  liberty,  my  Lucio,  liberty/  as  Claudio  makes  clear 
at  once ;  winch  runs  through  pastoral  and  is  at  the  heart 
of  the  clowns.  (Lawrence  too  seems  to  make  sex  the 
type  of  liberty ;  Shaw's  Don  Juan  liberty  the  type  of 
sex.)  '  Nature  in  general  is  a  cheat,  and  all  those  who 
think  themselves  owners  arc  pathetic/  Yet  we  seem 
here  to  transfer  to  Nature  the  tone  of  bitter  complaisance 
taken  up  towards  W.  H.  when  he  seemed  an  owner; 
she  now,  as  he  was,  must  be  given  the  benefit  of  the 
doubt  inseparable  from  these  shifting  phrases;  she  too 
must  be  let  rob  you  by  tricks  and  still  be  worshipped. 

h  113 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

There  is  the  same  suggestion  with  the  same  metaphors 
in  that  splendid  lecture  to  Achilles  to  make  him  use 
his  virtues  as  a  fighter  further ;  whether  rightly  to  thank 
her  is  to  view  yourself  as  an  owner  or  a  steward,  you 
must  still  in  the  end  pay  her  the  compound  interest  on 
her  gifts,  and  still  keep  up  the  pretence  that  they  are  free. 
This  tone  of  generous  distaste  for  the  conditions  of  life, 
which  gives  the  play  one  of  its  few  suggestions  of 
sympathy  for  Angclo,  I  think  usually  goes  with  a 
suggestion  of  the  Sonnets.  For  instance,  it  is  the  whole 
point  about  Bassanio ;  more  than  any  other  suitor  he 
is  an  arriviste  loved  only  for  success  and  seeming ;  his 
one  merit,  and  it  is  enough,  is  to  recognise  this  truth  with 
Christian  humility.  His  speech  before  the  caskets  about 
the  falsity  of  seeming  is  full  of  phrases  from  the  Sonnets 
(e.g.  68,  about  hair)  and  may  even  have  a  dim  reference 
to  the  Dark  Lady.  It  is  not  surprising  that  this  sentiment 
should  make  Shakespeare's  mind  hark  back  to  the 
Sonnets,  because  it  was  there  so  essential ;  these  poems 
of  idealisation  of  a  patron  and  careerist  depend  upon 
it  for  their  strength  and  dignity.  '  Man  is  so  placed  that 
the  sort  of  thing  you  do  is  in  degree  all  diat  any  one  can 
do ;  success  docs  not  come  from  mere  virtue,  and  without 
some  external  success  a  virtue  is  not  real  even  to  itself. 
One  must  not  look  elsewhere ;  success  of  the  same  nature 
as  yours  is  all  that  the  dignity,  whether  of  life  or  poetry, 
can  be  based  upon/  This  queer  sort  of  realism,  indeed, 
is  one  of  the  main  things  he  had  to  say. 

The  feeling  that  life  is  essentially  inadequate  to  the 
human  spirit,  and  yet  that  a  good  life  must  avoid  saying 
so,  is  naturally  at  home  with  most  versions  of  pastoral ; 
in  pastoral  you  take  a  limited  life  and  pretend  it  is  the 
full  and  normal  one,  and  a  suggestion  that  one  must  do 

114 


THEY  THAT  HAVE  POWER 

this  with  all  life,  because  the  normal  is  itself  limited,  is 
easily  put  into  the  trick  though  not  necessary  to  its 
power.  Conversely  any  expression  of  the  idea  that  all 
life  is  limited  may  be  regarded  as  only  a  trick  of  pastoral, 
perhaps  chiefly  intended  to  hold  all  our  attention  and 
sympathy  for  some  limited  life,  though  again  tins  is 
not  necessary  to  it  either  on  grounds  of  truth  or  beauty ; 
in  fact  the  suggestion  of  pastoral  may  be  only  a  pro- 
tection for  the  idea  which  must  at  last  be  taken  alone. 
The  business  of  interpretation  is  obviously  very  compli- 
cated. Literary  uses  of  the  problem  of  free-will  and 
necessity,  for  example,  may  be  noticed  to  give  curiously 
bad  arguments  and  I  should  think  get  their  strength  from 
keeping  you  in  doubt  between  the  two  methods.  Thus 
Hardy  is  fond  of  showing  us  an  unusually  stupid  person 
subjected  to  very  unusually  bad  luck,  and  then  a  moral 
is  drawn,  not  merely  by  inference  but  by  solemn  asser- 
tion, that  we  arc  all  in  the  same  boat  as  this  person  whose 
story  is  striking  precisely  because  it  is  unusual.  The  effect 
may  be  very  grand,  but  to  make  an  otherwise  logical 
reader  accept  the  process  must  depend  on  giving  him 
obscure  reasons  for  wishing  it  so.  It  is  clear  at  any  rate 
that  this  grand  notion  of  the  inadequacy  of  life,  so  various 
in  its  means  of  expression,  so  reliable  a  bass  note  in 
the  arts,  needs  to  be  counted  as  a  possible  territory 
of  pastoral. 


115 


j 


MarveWs  Garden 

The  Ideal  Simplicity  Approached  by  Resolving 
Contradictions 


k 


THE  chief  point  of  the  poem  is  to  contrast  and 
reconcile  conscious  and  unconscious  states,  intuitive 
and  intellectual  modes  of  apprehension ;  and  yet  that 
distinction  is  never  made,  perhaps  could  not  have  been 
made ;  Ins  thought  is  implied  by  his  metaphors.  There 
is  something  very  Far-Eastern  about  this;  I  was  set 
to  work  on  the  poem  by  Dr.  Richards*  recent  discussion 
of  a  philosophical  argument  in  Mencius.  The  Oxford 
edition  notes  bring  out  a  crucial  double  meaning  (so 
that  this  at  least  is  not  my  own  fancy)  in  the  most 
analytical  statement  of  the  poem,  about  the  Mind — 

Annihilating  all  that's  made 

To  a  green  thought  in  a  green  shade. 

*  Either  "reducing  the  whole  material  world  to  nothing 
material,  i.e.  to  a  green  thought,'*  or  "  considering  the 
material  world  as  of  no  value  compared  to  a  green 
thought  "  ' ;  either  contemplating  everything  or  shutting 
everything  out.  This  combines  the  idea  of  the  conscious 
mind,  including  everything  because  understanding  it, 
and  that  of  the  unconscious  animal  nature,  including 
everything  because  in  harmony  with  it.  Evidently  the 
object  of  such  a  fundamental  contradiction  (seen  in  the 
etymology :  turning  all  ad  nihil,  to  nothing,  and  to  a 
thought)  is  to  deny  its  reality ;  the  point  is  not  that  these 
two  are  essentially  different  but  that  chey  must  cease  to 
be  different  so  far  as  either  is  to  be  known.  So  far  as  he 
has  achieved  his  state  of  ecstasy  he  combines  them,  he 
is  *  neither  conscious  nor  not  conscious,'  like  the  seventh 

119 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Buddhist  state  of  enlightenment.  This  gives  its  point, 
I  think,  to  the  other  ambiguity,  clear  from  the  context, 
as  to  whether  die  all  considered  was  made  in  the  mind 
of  the  author  or  the  Creator ;  to  so  peculiarly  '  creative ' 
a  knower  there  is  little  difference  between  the  two. 
Here  as  usual  with  *  profound '  remarks  the  strength  of 
the  tiling  is  to  combine  unusually  intellectual  with 
unusually  primitive  ideas ;  thought  about  the  conditions 
of  knowledge  with  a  magical  idea  that  the  adept  controls 
the  external  world  by  thought. 

The  vehemence  of  the  couplet,  and  this  hint  of  physical 
power  in  thought  itself  (in  the  same  way  as  the  next 
line  gives  it  colour),  may  hint  at  an  idea  that  one  would 
like  to  feel  was  present,  as  otherwise  it  is  the  only  main 
idea  about  Nature  that  the  poem  leaves  out ;  that  of  the 
Hymn  to  David  and  The  Ancient  Mariner,  the  Orpheus 
idea,  that  by  delight  in  Nature  when  terrible  man  gains 
strength  to  control  it.  This  grand  theme  too  has  a  root 
in  magic ;  it  is  an  important  version  of  the  idea  of  the 
man  powerful  because  he  has  included  everything  in  him- 
self, is  still  strong,  one  would  think,  among  the  moun- 
tain climbers  and  often  the  scientists,  and  deserves  a  few 
examples  here.  I  call  it  the  idea  of  the  Hymn  to  David, 
though  being  hidden  behind  the  religious  one  it  is 
nowhere  overtly  stated,  except  perhaps  in  the  line 

Praise  above  all,  for  praise  prevails. 

David  is  a  case  of  Orpheus-like  behaviour  because  his 
music  restrained  the  madness  of  Saul. 

His  furious  foes  no  more  maligned 
When  he  such  melody  divined, 
And  sense  and  soul  detained  ; 

By  divining — intuiting — the  harmony  behind  the  universe 

120 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

he  *  makes  it  divine,'  rather  as  to  discover  a  law  of  nature 
is  to  '  give  nature  laws,'  and  this  restrains  the  madman 
who  embodies  the  unruled  forces  of  nature  from  killing 
him.  The  main  argument  of  the  verses  describing  nature 
(or  nature  as  described  by  David)  is  that  the  violence  of 
Nature  is  an  expression  of  her  adoration  of  God,  and 
therefore  that  the  man  of  prayer  who  also  adores  God 
delights  in  it  and  can  control  it. 

Strong  the  gier  eagle  on  his  sail 

Strong  against  tide,  th*  enormous  whale 

Emerges,  as  he  goes. 

But  stronger  still,  in  earth  or  air 
Or  in  the  sea,  the  man  of  prayer, 
And  far  beneath  the  tide. 

The  feeling  is  chiefly  carried  by  the  sound ;   long  Latin 

words  are  packed  into  the  short  lines  against  a  short 

one-syllable  rhyming  word  full  of  consonants;    it  is 

like  dancing  in  heavy  skirts ;   he  juggles  with  the  whole 

cumbrous  complexity  of  the  world.    The  Mariner  makes 

a  more  conscious  and  direct  use  of  the  theme,  but  in 

some  degree  runs  away  from  it  at  the  end.    The  reason 

it  was  a  magical  crime  for  a  sailor  to  kill  the  albatross 

is  that  it  both  occurs  among  terrible  scenes  of  Nature 

and  symbolises  man's  power  to  extract  life  from  them, 

so  ought  doubly  to  be  delighted  in.     So  long  as  the 

Mariner  is  horrified  by  the  creatures  of  the  calm  he  is 

their  slave ;   he  is  set  free  to  act,  in  the  supreme  verses 

of  the  poem,  as  soon  as  he  delights  in  them.    The  final 

moral  is  ' 

He  prayeth  best,  that  loveth  best 
All  thhigs  both  great  and  small. 

But  that  copybook  maxim  is  fine  only  if  you  can  hold 

121 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

it  firmly  together  with  such  verses  as  this,  which  Cole- 
ridge later  omitted : 

The  very  deeps  did  rot ;  oh  Christ 

That  such  a  thing  could  be ; 
Yea,  slimy  things  did  crawl  with  legs 

Upon  the  slimy  sea. 

And  it  was  these  creatures,  as  he  insisted  in  the  margin 
by  giving  the  same  name  to  both,  that  the  Mariner 
blessed  unaware  when  he  discovered  their  beauty.  This 
is  what  Coleridge  meant  by  alternately  saying  that  the 
poem  has  too  much  of  the  moral  and  too  little ;  knowing 
what  the  conventional  phrases  of  modern  Christianity 
ought  to  mean  he  thought  he  could  shift  to  a  conven- 
tional moral  that  needs  to  be  based  upon  the  real  one. 
Byron's  nature-poetry  gives  more  obvious  examples  of 
the  theme ;  he  likes  to  compare  a  storm  on  the  Jura  or 
what  not  to  a  woman  whom,  we  are  to  feel,  only  Byron 
could  dominate.  Poe  was  startled  and  liberated  by  it 
into  a  symbol  of  Ins  own  achievement ;  the  sailor  in 
The  Maelstrom  is  so  horrified  as  to  be  frozen,  through  a 
trick  of  neurosis,  into  idle  curiosity,  and  this  becomes 
a  scientific  interest  in  the  portent  which  shows  him  the 
way  to  escape  from  it. 

Nature  when  terrible  is  no  theme  of  MarvelFs,  and  he 
gets  this  note  of  triumph  rather  from  using  nature  when 
peaceful  to  control  the  world  of  man. 

How  safe,  methinks,  and  strong,  behind 
These  Trees  have  I  encamp'd  my  Mind  ; 
Where  Beauty,  aiming  at  the  Heart, 
Bends  in  some  Tree  its  useless  Dart ; 
And  where  the  World  no  certain  Shot 
Can  make,  or  me  it  touchcth  not. 
But  I  on  it  securely  play, 
And  gaul  its  Horsemen  all  the  Day. 

122 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

The  masculine  energy  of  the  last  couplet  is  balanced 
immediately  by  an  acceptance  of  Nature  more  masochist 
than  passive,  in  which  he  becomes  Christ  with  both  the 
nails  and  the  thorns.     (Appleton  House,  Ixxvi.) 

Bind  mc  ye  Woodbines  in  your  'twines, 
Curie  me  about  ye  gadding  Vines, 
And  Oh  so  close  your  Circles  lace, 
That  I  may  never  leave  this  Place : 
But,  lest  your  Fetters  prove  too  weak, 
Ere  I  your  Silken  Bondage  break, 
Do  you,  O  Brambles,  chain  mc  too, 
And  courteous  Briars  nail  me  through. 

He  does  not  deify  himself  more  actively,  and  in  any  case 
the  theme  of  the  Garden  is  a  repose. 

How  vainly  men  themselves  amaze 
To  win  the  Palm,  or  Oke,  or  Bayes ; 
And  their  uncessant  Labours  see 
Crown'd  from  some  single  Herb  or  Tree. 
Whose  short  and  narrow  verged  Shade 
Does  prudently  their  Toyles  upbraid  ; 
While  all  Flow'rs  and  all  Trees  do  close 
To  weave  the  Garlands  of  repose. 

This  first  verse  comes  nearest  to  stating  what  seems  the 
essential  distinction,  with  that  between  powers  inherent 
and  powers  worked  out  in  practice,  being  a  general  and 
feeling  one  could  be ;  in  this  ideal  case,  so  the  wit  of  the 
thing  claims,  the  power  to  have  been  a  general  is  already 
satisfied  in  the  garden.  *  Unemployment '  is  too  painful 
and  normal  even  in  the  fullest  life  for  such  a  theme  to 
be  trivial.  But  self-knowledge  is  possible  in  such  a 
state  so  far  as  the  unruly  impulses  are  digested,  ordered, 
made  transparent,  not  by  their  being  known,  at  the  time, 
as  unruly.    Consciousness  no  longer  makes  an  important 

123 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

distinction;  the  impulses,  since  they  must  be  balanced 
already,  neither  need  it  to  put  them  right  nor  are  put 
wrong  by  the  way  it  forces  across  their  boundaries. 
They  let  themselves  be  known  because  they  are  not 
altered  by  being  known,  because  their  principle  of 
indeterminacy  no  longer  acts.  This  idea  is  important 
for  all  the  versions  of  pastoral,  for  the  pastoral  figure  is 
always  ready  to  be  the  critic;  he  not  only  includes 
everything  but  may  in  some  unexpected  way  know  it. 

Another  range  of  his  knowledge  might  be  mentioned 
here.  I  am  not  sure  what  arrangement  of  flower-beds 
is  described  in  the  last  verse,  but  it  seems  clear  that  the 
sun  goes  through  the  '  zodiac '  of  flowers  in  one  day, 
and  that  the  bees  too,  in  going  from  one  bed  to  another, 
reminding  us  of  the  labours  of  the  first  verse,  pass  all 
summer  in  a  day.  They  compute  their  time  as  well  as 
we  in  that  though  their  lives  are  shorter  they  too  contract 
all  experience  into  it,  and  this  makes  the  poet  watch 
over  large  periods  of  time  as  well  as  space.  So  far  he 
becomes  Nature,  he  becomes  permanent.  It  is  a  graceful 
finale  to  the  all-in-one  theme,  but  not,  I  think,  very 
important ;  the  crisis  of  the  poem  is  in  die  middle. 

Once  you  accept  the  Oxford  edition's  note  you  may 
as  well  apply  it  to  the  whole  verse. 

Meanwhile  the  Mind,  from  pleasure  less, 
Withdraws  into  its  happiness ; 
The  Mind,  that  Ocean  where  each  kind 
Docs  streight  its  own  resemblance  find  ; 
Yet  it  creates,  transcending  these, 
Far  other  worlds,  and  other  Seas, 
Annihilating  .  .  . 

From  pleasure  less.  Either  '  from  the  lessening  of 
pleasure  — 4  we  are  quiet  in  the  country,  but  our  dullness 

124 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

gives  a  sober  and  self-knowing  happiness,  more  intel- 
lectual than  that  of  the  over-stimulated  pleasures  of  the 
town  '  or  *  made  less  by  this  pleasure ' — *  The  pleasures 
of  the  country  give  a  repose  and  intellectual  release  which 
make  me  less  intellectual,  make  my  mind  less  worrying 
and  introspective/  This  is  the  same  puzzle  as  to  the 
consciousness  of  the  thought ;  the  ambiguity  gives  two 
meanings  to  pleasure,  corresponding  to  his  Puritan 
ambivalence  about  it,  and  to  the  opposition  between 
pleasure  and  happiness.  Happiness,  again,  names  a 
conscious  state,  and  yet  involves  the  idea  of  things  falling 
right,  happening  so,  no  being  ordered  by  an  anxiety  of 
the  conscious  reason.  (So  that  as  a  rule  it  is  a  weak  word ; 
it  is  by  seeming  to  look  at  it  hard  and  bring  out  its  impli- 
cations that  the  verse  here  makes  it  act  as  a  strong  one.) 
The  same  doubt  gives  all  their  grandeur  to  the  next 
lines.  The  sea  if  calm  reflects  everything  near  it ;  the 
mind  as  knower  is  a  conscious  mirror.  Somewhere  in 
the  sea  are  sea-lions  and  -horses  and  everything  else, 
though  they  are  different  from  land  ones;  the  uncon- 
sciousness is  unplumbed  and  pathless,  and  there  is  no 
instinct  so  strange  among  the  beasts  that  it  lacks  its 
fantastic  echo  in  the  mind.  In  the  first  version  thoughts 
are  shadows,  in  the  second  (like  the  green  thought)  they 
are  as  solid  as  what  they  image;  and  yet  they  still 
correspond  to  something  in  the  outer  world,  so  that  the 
poet's  intuition  is  comparable  to  pure  knowledge.  This 
metaphor  may  reflect  back  so  that  withdraws  means  the 
tide  going  down ;  the  mind  is  less  now,  but  will,  return, 
and  it  is  now  that  one  can  see  the  rock-pools.  On  the 
Freudian  view  of  an  Ocean,  withdraws  would  make  this 
repose  in  Nature  a  return  to  the  womb ;  anyway  it  may 
mean  either   '  withdraws  into   self-contemplation '   or 

125 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

*  withdraws  altogether,  into  its  mysterious  processes  of 
digestion.'    Streight  may  mean  *  packed  together/  in  the 
microcosm,  or  '  at  once  ' ;   the  beasts  see  their  reflection 
(perhaps  the  root  idea  of  the  metaphor)  as  soon  as 
they  look  for  it ;  the  calm  of  Nature  gives  the  poet  an 
immediate  self-knowledge.     But  we  have  already  had 
two  entrancingly  witty  verses  about  the  sublimation  of 
sexual  desire  into  a  taste  for  Nature  (I  should  not  say 
that  this  theme  was  the  main  emotional  drive  behind  the 
poem,  but  it  takes  up  a  large  part  of  its  overt  thought), 
and  the  kinds  look  for  their  resemblance,  in  practice,  out 
of  a  desire  for  creation ;   in  the  mind,  at  this  fertile  time 
for  the  poet,  they  can  find  it  '  at  once/  being  *  packed 
together/    The  transition  from  the  beast  and  its  reflec- 
tion to  the  two  pairing  beasts  implies  a  transition  from 
the  correspondences  of  thought  with  fact  to  those  of 
thought  with  thought,  to  find  which  is  to  be  creative; 
there  is  necessarily  here  a  suggestion   of  rising  from 
one  '  level '  of  thought  to  another ;    and  in  the  next 
couplet  not  only  docs  the  mind  transcend  the  world  it 
mirrors,  but  a  sea,  to  which  it  is  parallel,  transcends 
both  land  and  sea  too,  which  implies  self-consciousness 
and  all  the  antinomies  of  philosophy.     Whether  or  not 
you  give  transcendent  the  technical  sense  *  predicable  of 
all  categories '  makes  no  great  difference ;    in  including 
everything  in  itself  the  mind  includes  as  a  detail  itself 
and  all  its  inclusions.    And  it  is  true  that  the  sea  reflects 
the  other  worlds  of  the  stars ;    Donne's  metaphor  of  the 
globe  is  in  the  background.    Yet  even  here  the  double 
meaning  is  not  lost ;   all  land-beasts  have  their  sea-boasts, 
but  the  sea  also  has  the  kraken ;  in  the  depths  as  well  as 
the  transcendence  of  the  mind  are  dungs  stranger  than 
all  the  kinds  of  the  world. 

126 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

Miss  M.  C.  Bradbrook  has  pointed  out  to  me  that 
the  next  verse,  while  less  triumphant,  gives  the  process 
a  more  firmly  religious  interpretation. 

Here  at  the  Fountains  sliding  foot, 
Or  by  some  Fruit-trees  mossy  root, 
Casting  the  Bodies  Vest  aside, 
My  Soul  into  the  boughs  does  glide ;  . 
There  like  a  Bird  it  sits,  and  sings, 
Then  whets,  and  combs  its  silver  Wings ; 
And,  till  prcpar'd  for  longer  flight, 
Waves  in  its  Plumes  the  various  Light. 

The  bird  is  the  dove  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  carries  a 
suggestion  of  the  rainbow  of  the  covenant.  By  becoming 
inherent  in  everything  he  becomes  a  soul  not  pantheist 
but  clearly  above  and  apart  from  the  world  even  while 
still  living  in  it.  Yet  the  paradoxes  are  still  firmly 
maintained  here,  and  the  soul  is  as  solid  as  the  green 
thought.  The  next  verse  returns  naturally  and  still  with 
exultation  to  the  jokes  in  favour  of  solitude  against 
women. 

Green  takes  on  great  weight  here,  as  Miss  Sackville 
West  pointed  out,  because  it  has  been  a  pet  word  of 
MarvclTs  before.  To  list  the  uses  before  the  satires  may 
seem  an  affectation  of  pedantry,  but  shows  how  often 
the  word  was  used;  and  they  arc  pleasant  things  to 
look  up.  In  the  Oxford  text :  pages  12, 1.  23  ;  17, 1.  18  ; 
25,1.  n;  27,1.4;  38,1.  3;  45, 1.  3;  46,1.25;  48J.  18; 
49,  1.  48;  70,  1.  376;  71,  h  390;  74,  I-  5io;  122,  1.  2. 
Less  rich  uses :  15,  1.  18  ;  21,  1.  44 ;  30, 1.  55  ;  42,  1.  14 ; 
69,  1.  339;  74,  11.  484,  496;  7«,  1.  628;  85,  1.  82;  89, 
1.  94 ;  108, 1.  196.  It  is  connected  here  with  grass,  buds, 
children,  an  as  yet  virginal  prospect  of  sexuality,  and  the 
peasant  stock  from  which  the  great  families  emerge.    The 

127 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

'  unfathomable  *  grass  makes  the  soil  fertile  and  shows  it 
to  be  so;  it  is  the  humble,  permanent,  undeveloped 
nature  which  sustains  everything,  and  to  which  every- 
thing must  return.  No  doubt  D.  H.  Lawrence  was  right 
when  he  spoke  up  for  Leaves  of  Grass  against  Whitman 
and  said  they  felt  themselves  to  be  very  aristocratic,  but 
that  too  is  eminently  a  pastoral  fancy.  Children  are 
connected  with  this  both  as  buds,  and  because  of  their 
contact  with  Nature  (as  in  Wordsworth),  and  unique 
fitness  for  Heaven  (as  in  the  Gospels). 

The  tawny  mowers  enter  next, 
Who  seem  like  Israelites  to  be, 
Walking  on  foot  through  a  green  sea. 

connects  greenness  with  oceans  and  gives  it  a  magical 
security ; 

And  in  the  greenness  of  the  grass 
Did  see  my  hopes  as  in  a  glass 

connects  greenness  with  mirrors  and  the  partial  knowledge 
of  the  mind.  The  complex  of  ideas  he  concentrates  into 
this  passage,  in  fact,  had  been  worked  out  already,  and 
in  a  context  that  shows  how  firmly  these  ideas  about 
Nature  were  connected  with  direct  pastoral.  The  poem 
indeed  comes  immediately  after  a  pastoral  series  about 
the  mower  of  grass. 

I  am  the  Mower  Damon,  known 
Through  all  the  Meadows  I  have  mown ; 
On  me  the  Morn  her  dew  distills 
Before  her  darling  Daffodils. 

In  these  meadows  he  feels  he  has  left  his  mark  on  a  great 
territory,  if  not  on  everything,  and  as  a  typical  figure  he 
has  mown  all  the  meadows  of  the  world ;  in  either  case 

128 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

Nature  gives  him  regal  and  magical  honours,  and  I 
suppose  he  is  not  only  the  ruler  but  the  executioner  of  the 
daffodils — the  Clown  as  Death. 

Only  for  him  no  Cure  is  found, 
Whom  Juliana's  Eyes  do  wound. 
'Tis  death  alone  that  this  must  do : 
For  Death  thou  art  a  Mower  too. 

He  provides  indeed  more  conscious  and  comic  mixtures 
of  heroic  and  pastoral : 

every  Mower's  wholesome  heat 
Smelled  like  an  Alexander's  sweat. 

It  is  his  grand  attack  on  gardens  which  introduces  both 
the  connection  through  wit  between  the  love  of  woman 
and  of  nature,  which  is  handled  so  firmly  in  the  Garden : 

No  white  nor  red  was  ever  seen 
So  am'rous  as  this  lovely  green  : 

— and  the  belief  that  the  fruitful  attitude  to  Nature  is  the 
passive  one: 

His  [the  gardener's]  green  Seraglio  has  its  Eunuchs  too ; 

Lest  any  Tyrant  him  outdoe. 

And  in  the  Cherry  he  does  Nature  vex, 

To  procreate  without  a  Sex. 

'Tis  all  enforced  ;  the  Fountain  and  the  Grot ; 

While  the  sweet  Fields  do  lye  forgot ; 

Where  willing  Nature  does  to  all  dispence 

A  wild  and  fragrant  Innocence  : 

And  Fauns  and  Faryes  do  the  Meadows  till, 

More  by  their  presence  than  their  skill.  < 

It  is  Marvell   himself  who   tills  the  Garden  by  these 
magical  and  contemplative  powers. 

I  129 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Grass  indeed  comes  to  be  taken  for  granted  as  the 
symbol  of  pastoral  humility : 

Unhappy  Birds !  what  does  it  boot 

To  build  below  the  Grasses'  Root ; 

When  Lowness  is  unsafe  as  Hight, 

And  Chance  o'ertakes  what  scapeth  Spight  f 

It  is  a  humility  of  Nature  from  which  she  is  still  higher 
than  man,  so  that  the  grasshoppers  preach  to  him  from 
their  pinnacles : 

And  now  to  the  Abyss  I  pass 
Of  that  unfathomable  Grass, 
Where  men  like  Grashoppers  appear, 
But  Grashoppers  are  Gyants  there ; 
They,  in  there  squcking  Laugh,  contemn 
Us  as  we  walk  more  low  than  them  : 
And,  from  the  Precipices  tall 
Of  the  green  spire's,  to  us  do  call. 

It  seems  also  to  be  an  obscure  merit  of  grass  that  it 
produces  *  hay,'  which  was  the  name  of  a  country  dance, 
so  that  the  humility  is  gaiety. 

With  this  the  golden  fleece  I  shear 

Of  all  these  Closes  ev'ry  Year, 

And  though  in  Wool  more  poor  than  they, 

Yet  I  am  richer  far  in  Hay. 

To  nineteenth-century  taste  the  only  really  poetical 
verse  of  the  poem  is  the  central  fifth  of  the  nine ;  I  have 
been  discussing  the  sixth,  whose  dramatic  position  is  an 
illustration  of  its  very  penetrating  theory.  The  first  four 
are  a  crescendo  of  wit,  on  the  themes  *  success  or  failure 
is  not  important,  only  the  repose  that  follows  the  exercise 
of  one's  powers '  and  *  women,  I  am  pleased  to  say,  are 
no  longer  interesting  to  me,  because  nature  is  more 

130 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

beautirul.s  One  effect  of  the  wit  is  to  admit,  and  so  make 
charming,  the  impertinence  of  the  second  of  these,  which 
indeed  the  first  puts  in  its  place ;  it  is  only  for  a  time,  and 
after  effort  among  human  beings,  that  he  can  enjoy 
solitude.  The  value  of  these  moments  made  it  fitting 
to  pretend  they  were  eternal;  and  yet  the  lightness  of 
his  expression  of  their  sense  of  power  is  more  intelligent, 
and  so  more  convincing,  than  Wordsworth's  solemnity 
on  the  same  theme,  because  it  does  not  forget  the 
opposing  forces. 

When  we  have  run  our  Passions  heat, 
Love  hither  makes  his  best  retreat. 
The  Gods,  that  mortal  beauty  chase, 
Still  in  a  Tree  did  end  their  race. 
Apollo  hunted  Daphne  so, 
Only  that  she  might  Laurel  grow, 
And  Pan  did  after  Syrinx  speed, 
Not  as  a  Nymph,  but  for  a  Reed. 

The  energy  and  delight  of  the  conceit  has  been  sharp- 
ened or  keyed  up  here  till  it  seems  to  burst  and  transform 
itself;  it  dissolves  in  the  next  verse  into  the  style  of 
Keats.  So  his  observation  of  the  garden  might  mount 
to  an  ecstasy  winch  disregarded  it ;  he  seems  in  this  next 
verse  to  imitate  the  process  he  has  described,  to  enjoy 
in  a  receptive  state  the  exhilaration  which  an  exercise 
of  wit  has  achieved.  But  striking  as  the  change  of  style 
is,  it  is  unfair  to  empty  the  verse  of  thought  and  treat 
it  as  random  description ;  what  happens  is  that  he  steps 
back  from  overt  classical  conceits  to  a  rich  and  intuitive 
use  of  Christian  imagery.  When  people  treat  it  as  the 
one  good  *  bit '  of  the  poem  one  does  not  know  whether 
they  have  recognised  that  the  Alpha  and  Omega  of  the 
verse  are  the  Apple  and  the  Fall. 

131 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

What  wond'rous  Life  in  this  I  lead ! 

Ripe  Apples  drop  about  my  head ;  • 

The  Luscious  Clusters  of  the  Vine 

Upon  my  Mouth  do  crush  their  Wine ; 

The  Nectaren,  and  curious  Peach, 

Into  my  hands  themselves  do  reach ; 

Stumbling  on  Melons,  as  I  pass, 

Insnar'd  with  Flow'rs,  I  fall  on  Grass. 

Melon,  again,  is  the  Greek  for  apple ;  '  all  flesh  is 
grass,'  and  its  own  flowers  here  are  the  snakes  in  it  that 
stopped  Eurydicc.  Mere  grapes  are  at  once  the  primitive 
and  the  innocent  wine;  the  nectar  of  Eden,  and  yet 
the  blood  of  sacrifice.  Curious  could  mean  *  rich  and 
strange  *  (nature),  '  improved  by  care '  (art)  or  *  in- 
quisitive '  (feeling  towards  me,  since  nature  is  a  mirror, 
as  I  do  towards  her).  All  these  eatable  beauties  give 
themselves  so  as  to  lose  themselves,  like  a  lover,  with  a 
forceful  generosity ;  like  a  lover  they  ensnare  him.  It 
is  the  triumph  of  the  attempt  to  impose  a  sexual  interest 
upon  nature ;  there  need  be  no  more  Puritanism  in  this 
use  of  sacrificial  ideas  than  is  already  inherent  in  the 
praise  of  solitude ;  and  it  is  because  his  repose  in  the 
orchard  hints  at  such  a  variety  of  emotions  that  he  is 
contemplating  all  that's  wade.  Sensibility  here  repeats 
what  wit  said  in  the  verse  before ;  he  tosses  into  the 
fantastic  treasure-chest  of  the  poem's  thought  all  the 
pathos  and  dignity  that  Milton  was  to  feel  in  his  more 
celebrated  Garden ;  and  it  is  while  this  is  going  on,  we 
are  told  in  the  next  verse,  that  the  mind  performs  its 
ambiguous  and  memorable  withdrawal.  For  each  of  the 
three  central  verses  he  gives  a  twist  to  the  screw  of  the 
microscope  and  is  living  in  another  world. 

I  must  go  back  to  the  annihilating  lines,  whose  method 
is  less  uncommon.    Similar  ideas  and  tricks  of  language 

132 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

are  used  in  Donne's  Exstasie,  where  various  puns  impose 
on  us  the  idea  that  an  adequate  success  in  love  is  a  kind  of 
knowledge  which  transcends  the  barriers  of  the  ordinary 
kind.  There  is  again  some  doubt  how  far  the  author 
knew  what  he  was  doing. 

As  our  blood  labours  to  beget 

Spirits,  as  like  souls  as  it  can,  .  .  . 
So  must  pure  louers'  soules  descend.  .  .  . 

To  the  modern  reader  this  is  a  pun  on  the  senses '  subtle 
material  essence '  (e.g.  '  spirits  of  salt ')  and  *  non- 
material  unit  of  life  ' ;  it  seems  used  with  as  much  *  wit ' 
as  the  other  puns,  to  trick  us  into  feeling  that  soul  and 
body  may  be  interfused.  The  Oxford  edition  notes 
make  clear  that  to  Donne  this  was  neither  a  pun  nor  a 
sophistry ;  *  The  spirits  ...  are  the  thin  and  active  part 
of  the  blood,  and  are  of  a  kind  of  middle  nature,  between 
soul  and  body  '  (Sermons) ;  one  view  of  them  was  that 
there  was  a  hierarchy  of  more  and  more  spiritual  ones. 
It  is  curious  how  the  change  in  the  word  leaves  the  poetry 
unaffected ;  by  Swift's  time  the  two  senses  were  an  absurd 
accident  from  which  one  could  get  ironies  against  mater- 
ialism. No  doubt  in  some  important  senses  Donne  was 
right,  but  however  supported  by  Cambridge  Platonism 
it  is  a  genuine  primitive  use  of  the  word.  Whereas  he 
would  certainly  have  known  there  was  a  pun  on  *  sense  ' 
even  if  he  took  it  for  granted.  *  Our  bodies  why  do  we 
forbeare  ? '  .  .  . 

We  owe  them  thankes,  because  they  thus,    ■ 

Did  us,  to  us,  at  first  convey, 
Yielded  their  forces,  sense,  to  us, 

Nor  are  dross  to  us,  but  allay. 

The  antithesis  for  allay  makes  it  mean  *  alloy/  a  less 

133 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

valuable  substance  put  into  their  gold  to  strengthen  it 
for  practical  use ;  allay  could  mean  *  keeping  the  spiritual 
pleasure  from  being  too  great,  more  than  our  strength 
could  bear,'  which  goes  with  *  alloy/  then,  behind  that, 
'  relief  to  the  pain  of  desire/  which  makes  the  flesh  less 
unimportant.  This  is  reinforced  by  the  special  meaning 
of  sense  ('  the  wanton  stings  and  motions  of  the  s '). 
That  rich  word  confuses  the  pleasure  and  the  knowledge 
given  by  the  senses  (Donne  wants  to  imply  they  are 
mutually  dependent)  and  suggests  that  soul  and  body 
are  in  a  healthy  intuitive  relation — *  plenty  of  sense/ 
The  use  of  sense  for  sensibleness  became  stronger  later 
in  the  century,  but  it  is  already  clearly  an  element  in 
the  word — for  example  in  saying  '  there  is  no  sense ' 
in  a  statement  when  it  has  meaning  but  is  not  sensible. 

*  We  could  not  know  each  other  at  all  without  sensa- 
tions, therefore  cannot  know  each  other  fully  without 
sensuality,  nor  would  it  be  sensible  to  try  to  do  so/ 

The  poem  uses  the  word  again  later,  and  there  the 
sexual  meaning  is  clear. 

So  must  pure  louers  soulcs  descend 

To  affections,  and  to  faculties, 
Which  sense  may  reach  and  apprehend, 

Else  a  great  Prince  in  prison  lies. 
To  our  bodies  turn  we  then.  .  .  . 

Affections  are  *  loves/  '  weaknesses/  and  in  the  phil- 
osophical  sense    *  physical    effects/     Apprehend  means 

*  know '  and  by  derivation  *  clutch/  and  reach  would 
go  with  either,  which  gives  sense  a  sort  of  bridge  between 
its  meanings. 

It  is  possible  that  Donne  means  to  throw  in  a  pun  on 
1  know/  as  in  *  Adam  knew  his  wife/ 

134 


m 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

Wcc  then,  who  arc  this  new  soule,  know, 
Of  what  wc  arc  composed,  and  made, 

For,  the  Atomics  of  which  we  grow, 
Are  soulcs,  which  no  change  can  invade. 

Know  is  isolated  by  the  comma  ('  know  each  other '), 
and  of  may  then  take  a  step  towards  *  by  means  of/ 
Then,  with  Donne's  usual  leap  in  pretending  to  give  a 
reason,  he  makes  each  soul  entirely  immaterial ;  *  the 
intellectual  knowledge  has,  for  us,  all  the  advantages  of 
the  physical  one,  even  granted  that  they  are  distinguish- 
able.' If  he  did  this  it  would  have  to  be  done  consciously 
and  wilfully. 

One  should  not  of  course  take  such  poetry  as  only  a 
clever  game.  This  truth-seeking  idea  seems  fundamental 
to  the  European  convention  of  love-poetry;  love  is 
always  idealised  as  a  source  of  knowledge  not  only  of 
the  other  party  but  of  oneself  and  of  the  world : 

This  Exstasie  doth  unperplcx 


because  it  makes  the  disparate  impulses  of  the  human 
creature  not  merely  open  to  the  prying  of  the  mind  but 
prepared  for  its  intrusion.  It  is  along  these  lines,  I  think, 
that  D.  H.  Lawrence's  hatred  of  the  whole  conception 
might  be  answered,  or  rather  that  he  answered  it  himself. 
On  the  other  hand,  I  think  Donne  felt  quite  casual  about 
these  particular  tricks ;  the  juggle  with  sense  has  the  same 
graceful  impudence  as  his  frankly  absurd  arguments. 
M.  Legouis  may  be  right  in  saying  that  he  set  out  merely 
to  dramatise  the  process  of  seduction ;  it  is  only  clear 
that  he  found  the  argument  fascinating  and  believed  that 
it  had  some  truth  in  some  cases.  He  did  not  think  it 
so  false  as  to  depend  on  his  puns,  even  where  he  recog- 
nised them ;    he  may  well  have  understood  what  the 

135 


I 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

puns  themselves  depend  upon.  They  insist  on  relics  of 
primitive  thought  in  civilised  language,  and  thereby 
force  the  language  to  break  down  its  later  distinctions 
and  return  to  ideas  natural  to  the  human  mind.  Dr. 
Richards'  account  of  romantic  nature  poetry  in  Coleridge 
on  Imagination  is  a  very  good  example ;  the  personalised 
Nature  is  treated  both  as  external  to  man  and  as  created 
by  an  instinct  of  the  mind,  and  by  tricks  of  language 
these  are  made  to  seem  the  same.  But  if  they  were 
simply  called  the  same  we  would  not  so  easily  be  satisfied 
by  the  tricks.  What  we  feel  is  that  though  they  are 
essentially  unlike  they  are  practically  unlike  in  different 
degrees  at  different  times ;  a  supreme  condition  can 
therefore  be  imagined,  though  not  attained,  in  which 
they  arc  essentially  like.  (To  put  it  like  this  is  no  doubt 
to  evade  a  philosophic  issue.)  A  hint  of  the  supreme 
condition  is  thus  found  in  the  actual  one  (this  makes 
the  actual  one  include  everything  in  itself),  but  this 
apparently  exalted  claim  is  essentially  joined  to  humility ; 
it  is  effective  only  through  the  admission  that  it  is  only 
a  hint.  Something  of  the  tone  of  pastoral  is  therefore 
inherent  in  the  claim ;  the  fault  of  the  Wordsworthian 
method  seems  to  be  that  it  does  not  show  tins. 

I  shall  add  here  a  pun  from  As  You  Like  It,  which  shows 
how  the  same  issue  may  be  raised  by  a  casual  joke.  The 
pun  in  its  context  makes  a  contradiction,  and  this  is  felt 
to  show  an  intuitive  grasp  of  some  of  the  puzzles  of  the 
context.  Fortunately  there  is  no  doubt  that  a  pun  is 
meant  because  the  text  insists  upon  it ;  the  N.E.D. 
shows  that  the  modern  spellings,  though  used  loosely, 
already  made  the  distinction.  Apart  from  facsimiles 
no  edition  that  I  have  seen  has  yet  printed  the  text. 
The  point  of  the  two  spellings  is  to  show  that  the  two 

136 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

senses  are  at  work;  it  is  none  the  less  fair  to  take  the 
senses  the  other  way  round.  (This  is  from  the  Folio; 
there  is  no  Quarto.) 

Clown.  . . .  truly,  I  would  the  Gods  haddc  made  thee  poeticall. 

Audrey.  I  do  not  know  what  Poetical  is :  is  it  honest  in  word 
and  deed  :  is  it  a  true  thing  ? 

Clown.  No  trulie :  for  the  truest  poetrie  is  the  most  faming, 
and  Louers  are  given  to  Poetrie  :  and  what  they  sweare  in  Poetrie, 
may  be  said  as  Louers,  they  do  feigne. 

Audrey.  Do  you  wish  then  that  the  Gods  had  made  mc 
Poetical  i 

Clown.  I  do  truly :  for  thou  swear'st  to  me  thou  art  honest : 
Now  if  thou  wert  a  Poet,  I  might  haue  some  hope  thou  didst 
feigne. 

*  A  material  fool '  is  the  pleased  judgment  of  the 
listening  Jaques ;  he  feels  that  there  is  a  complete  copy 
of  the  human  world  among  fools,  as  of  beasts  among 
sea-beasts.  This  indeed  is  one  of  the  assumptions  of 
pastoral,  that  you  can  say  everything  about  complex 
people  by  a  complete  consideration  of  simple  people. 
The  jokes  are  mainly  carried  on  by  puns  on  *  honest ' — 
chastity  in  women,  truth  in  speech,  simplicity  in  clowns, 
and  the  hearty  sense  *  generous  because  free  from 
hypocrisy  ' ;  my  point  is  the  pun  on  *  fain  '  [desiring) 
and  *  feign  '  [pretend ;  in  lovers  pretend  honest  desire). 
The  doubt  of  the  poet's  honesty  is  referred  to  the  broader 
doubt  of  his  self-knowledge,  just  as  honest  itself  shifts 
from  '  truth-telling '  to  *  sincere  in  his  own  mind.' 
The  pun  itself  is  common,  though  I  think  it  is  only  here, 
where  it  enriches  the  thought  so  much,  that  Shakespeare 
spelt  it  out  for  the  reader. 

Eceus.  Thou  hast  by  moonelight  at  her  window  sang 
With  faining  voice,  verses  of  faining  love, 
And  stolne  the  impression  of  her  fantasie. 


137 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

He  feigns  true  love  because  he  would  fain  possess  her; 
the  word  love  itself  may  be  used  of  a  desire  not  permanent 
or  generous ;  Egeus  would  call  that  a  feigning  love  even 
if  Nature  deceives  both  of  them,  and  the  man  thinks 
himself  sincere.  The  easy  but  capacious  mind  of  Spenser 
takes  this  for  granted  (F.Q.,  V.  xii.  36 ;  Hymn  to  Love, 
216) ;  nobody  pretends  without  purpose,  so  it  is  a 
useful  trick  of  language.  Touchstone's  use  of  it  about 
poetry  is  more  searching. 

The  root  of  the  joke  is  that  a  physical  desire  drives 
the  human  creature  to  a  spiritual  one.  The  best  poetry 
is  the  most  genuinely  passionate  (fain)  but  there  may  be 
two  pretences  (feign),  that  the  desire  felt  for  this  woman 
is  spiritual  and  that  any  woman  is  the  object  of  so  spiritual 
a  desire.  *  To  write  poetry  is  not  the  quickest  way  to 
satisfy  desire ;  there  must  be  some  other  impulse  behind 
the  convention  of  love-poetry ;  something  feigned  in  the 
choice  of  topic ;  some  other  thing  of  which  they  are 
fain.'  As  for  the  distinction  between  their  roles  as  poets 
and  lovers,  both  senses  may  apply  to  them  in  both,  also 
to  swearing,  since  *  go  to  hell '  is  spontaneous,  not  meant, 
not  meant  to  deceive,  and  a  sort  of  feigning  in  which 
you  are  fain  of  what  you  feign.  For  that  matter  they  are 
wooing  the  reader  even  if  they  are  not  trying  to  seduce 
a  mistress;  the  process  at  its  simplest  involves  desire 
and  detachment,  nature  and  sophistication;  levels 
mysteriously  inter-related  which  a  sane  man  separates 
only  for  a  joke.  Touchstone's  pretence  of  acidity  allows 
of  a  real  plea  for  his  own  case  because  it  implies  that  the 
most  refined  desires  are  inherent  in  the  plainest,  and 
would  be  false  if  they  weren't ;  he  shows  a  staircase  by 
giving  the  cvo  lowest  steps,  lust  and  cheating.  In  the 
MarvcH  and  Donne  examples  it  is  the  top  of  a  staircase 

138 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

that  is  in  question,  but  the  same  method  is  used  to  define 
it.  Two  ideas  are  united  which  in  normal  use  are  con- 
tradictory, and  our  machinery  of  interpretation  so  acts 
that  we  feel  there  is  a  series  of  senses  in  which  they 
could  be  more  and  more  truly  combined.  This  is  clearest 
in  what  Mr.  James  Smith  defined  as  metaphysical  con- 
ceits, those  that  genuinely  sum  up  a  metaphysical 
problem.  The  top  and  next  steps  in  the  Aristotelian 
staircase  about  form  and  matter,  for  example,  would 
be  pure  form  and  the  material,  already  form,  which  it 
informs.  Donne  is  using  this  when  he  calls  each  lover's 
soul  the  body  of  the  other's ;  the  fact  that  we  do  not 
believe  that  the  lovers  are  in  this  condition  does  not  keep 
us  from  a  feeling  of  belief  in  the  conceit,  because  we 
believe  in  the  staircase  which  it  defines ;  the  lovers  appear 
as  conscious  of  the  staircase  and  higher  up  on  it  than 
most.  Nor  for  that  matter  do  we  believe  that  the 
clown  is  at  the  bottom  of  his  staircase ;  his  understanding 
of  it  acts  as  a  proof  that  he  isn't.  A  good  case  of  a  poem 
with  some  doubt  about  die  staircase  it  requires  is  pro- 
vided by  Shakespeare's  Phoenix  and  Turtle;  it  depends 
on  the  same  ideas  as  Donne's  First  Anniversary ;  but  gets 
very  different  feelings  out  of  them.  The  entire  flatness 
of  the  use  of  the  convention  makes  it  seem  first  an 
engagingly  simplemindcd  piece  of  *  idealism  '  and  then, 
since  the  union  of  the  birds  is  likely  after  all  to  be  of  a 
simple  kind,  an  expression  of  cultivated  and  good- 
humoured  sensuality;  this  does  not  by  any  means 
destroy  the  pathetic  dignity  of  the  close.  There  is  a 
suggestion  that  the  author  finds  the  convention  fascin- 
ating but  absurd,  which  he  shows  mainly  by  his  sound- 
effects.  This  seems  to  me  intentional,  very  delightful, 
and  not  a  thing  that  Chapman  (who  has  been  suggested 

139 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

as  the  author)  could  possibly  have  done.  It  is  clear  here 
that  once  you  cease  to  impose  a  staircase  the  thing  shifts 
from  heroic  to  mock-pastoral.  Some  such  idea  needs  to 
be  added  to  Mr.  James  Smith's  account  (perhaps  he 
would  call  it  obvious)  because  otherwise  there  seems  no 
way  of  putting  in  a  judgment  of  value ;  on  his  account 
a  metaphysical  conceit  is  essentially  a  vivid  statement  of 
a  puzzle,  and  in  practice  it  is  more. 

I  should  say  that  this  process  is  at  work  in  much  poetry 
that  does  not  seem  ambiguous  at  all,  and  shall  pursue  the 
question  into  Homer  as  the  fountainhead  of  simplicity. 
This  may  also  throw  some  light  on  the  obscure  connec- 
tion between  heroic  and  pastoral ;  the  fact  seems  to  be 
diat  both  rely  on  a  *  complex  in  simple  '  formula. 

One  idea  essential  to  a  primitive  epic  style  is  that  the 
good  is  not  separable  (anyway  at  first  level  judgments) 
from  a  life  of  straightforward  worldly  success  in  which 
you  keep  certain  rules ;  the  plain  satisfactions  are  good  in 
themselves  and  make  great  the  men  who  enjoy  them. 
From  tlais  comes  the  *  sense  of  glory  '  and  of  controlling 
nature  by  delight  in  it.  It  is  absurd  to  call  this  a  *  pre- 
moralistic '  view,  since  the  rules  may  demand  great 
sacrifices  and  it  is  shameful  not  to  keep  them ;  there  is 
merely  a  naive  view  of  the  nature  of  good.  (Both  a 
limitation  of  the  tilings  that  are  good  and  a  partial 
failure  to  separate  the  idea  of  good  from  the  idea  of  those 
things.)  The  naive  view  is  so  often  more  true  than  the 
sophisticated  ones  that  this  comes  in  later  ages  to  take  on 
an  air  of  massive  grandeur ;  it  gives  a  feeling  of  freedom 
from  humbug  which  is  undoubtedly  noble,  and  the 
Homeric  heroes  support  tliis  by  the  far  from  savage 
trait  of  questioning  the  beliefs  they  still  die  for.  Stock 
epithets   about   *  the   good   wine '   or   *  the   well-built 

140 


MARVELL'S  GARDEN 

gates  '  imply  '  so  one  always  rightly  feels  ' ;  such  a  thing 
essentially  has  virtue  in  it,  is  a  piece  of  virtue ;  a  later 
reader  feels  this  to  be  symbolic,  a  process  of  packing  all 
the  sorts  of  good  into  a  simple  one.  Material  things  are 
taken  as  part  of  a  moral  admiration,  and  to  a  later  reader 
(with  less  pride,  for  example,  in  the  fact  that  Ins  culture 
uses  iron)  this  seems  an  inspiriting  moral  paradox  like 
those  of  pastoral — '  to  one  who  knows  how  to  live  the 
ideal  is  easily  reached/  It  is  assumed  that  Ajax  is  still 
enormously  grand  when  he  cooks  his  dinner ;  the  later 
reader  feels  he  must  really  be  very  grand  not  to  lose  his 
dignity,  whereas  at  the  time  it  was  a  tiling  of  some 
splendour  to  have  so  much  dinner  to  cook  or  such 
implements  to  do  it  with.  This  comes  to  have  the  same 
effect  as  a  pretence  of  pastoral  humility  in  the  author. 
Also  the  heroic  individual  has  an  enormous  effect  on 
everything  in  sight,  gods  and  men,  and  yet  finds  every- 
thing of  manageable  dimensions ;  the  later  reader  feels 
that  this  belongs  to  a  village  society  rather  than  a  large- 
town  one.  Certainly  the  heroes  are  not  grand  merely 
because  they  are  brave ;  they  can  run  away  like  other 
people,  and  say  so  more  frankly.  Indeed  a  great  part 
of  their  dignity  comes  from  the  naive  freshness  with 
which  they  can  jump  from  one  level  of  argument  to 
another,  and  tins  leaves  room  for  the  effects  I  am  con- 
sidering. 

Thus  the  puzzles  become  more  obvious  later,  but  this 
is  not  to  say  they  were  not  used  at  the  start.  The  heroes 
arc  given  a  directly  moral  grandeur  by  the  perpetual 
clashes  between  free-will  and  necessity,  symbolised  by 
their  relations  with  the  gods,  out  of  which  they  construct 
their  speeches ;  they  fight  on  when  certain  of  failure 
and  kill  each  other  with  the  apology  that  they  too  arc 

141 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

fated,  and  such  fore-knowledge  as  they  have  makes  them 
half  divine.  It  is  very  curious  that  what  is  supposed  to 
he  another  branch  of  the  same  race,  when  it  arrived  in 
India,  had  none  of  this  interest  in  die  problems  of  free- 
will ;  the  dignity  of  the  heroes  in  die  Mahabarata  is  based 
on  puzzles  about  the  One  and  the  Many.  Nor  did  it 
develop  later;  the  Buddha  was  once  actually  faced 
with  the  problem  of  freewill  raised  so  starkly  by  his 
system,  and  brushed  it  aside  on  grounds  of  morality ; 
I  understand  that  all  Buddhist  theologians  have  ignored 
the  issue.  Whereas  all  new  ideas  in  Europe,  Christianity 
and  the  sciences  in  turn,  have  been  taken  as  new  problems 
about  necessity  and  free-will.  Thus  the  reason  why  the 
Homeric  but  where  one  expects '  and  '  has  so  much  poetic 
force  is  diat  it  implies  some  argument,  such  as  all  the 
characters  are  happy  with,  and  the  argument  would 
lead  you  to  other  levels  of  thought.  (This  acts  as  a 
feeling  that  the  two  tilings  put  together  are  vividly 
different  in  themselves.)  *  He  spoke,  and  held  still  his 
hand  upon  the  silvery  hilt,  and  dirust  back  die  great 
sword  into  the  scabbard,  nor  did  he  disobey  the  order 
of  Minerva;  but  she  had  gone  to  Olympus,  to  the 
mansions  of  aegis-bearing  Jove,  amongst  the  other 
deities.,  But  makes  her  already  indifferent;  die  puzzle 
about  how  far  men  are  free  and  how  far  the  gods  are 
only  forces  in  their  minds  is  thrust  upon  your  attention. 
Also  there  is  a  strong  feeling  in  the  epic  that  the  heroes 
are  too  great  to  kill  each  other  for  detested  Helen  and 
the  unnecessary  recovery  of  corpses  ('  Nor  do  I  fear  so 
much  about  the  dead  body  of  Patroclus,  which  will 
quickly  satiate  the  dogs  and  birds  of  the  Trojans,  as  much 
as  I  fear  for  my  own  head,  lest  it  suffer  anything,  and 
for  thine ')  and  yet  that  only  this  would  display  their 

142 


MARVELI/S  GARDEN 

greatness;  a  rich  contradiction  on  which  to  build  a 
hierarchy  of  value.  I  began  by  saying  that  such  writing 
was  based  on  a  naive  idea  of  the  nature  of  good,  but  in 
fact  other  ideas  of  good  are  implicit  in  it ;  Shakespeare's 
Troilus  and  Cressida  is  often  taken  as  a  sort  of  parody  of 
the  Iliad,  but  there  is  little  in  it  that  Homer  did  not 
imply.  What  becomes  strange  to  a  more  sophisticated 
society  is  the  order  in  which  the  ideas  can  be  built  up ; 
in  such  a  society  everybody  has  been  told  some  refined 
ideas  about  good  (or  what  not)  and  wants  them  put  in 
at  once;  to  take  a  simple  tiling  and  imply  a  hierarchy 
in  it  can  then  only  be  done  in  a  strange  world  like  that  of 
Milton's  Adam  or  a  convention  like  that  of  pastoral. 
To  say  this  is  to  echo  what  many  of  Homer's  critics, 
including  Milton  himself,  have  said  about  the  peculiar 
advantage  he  got  from  his  date,  and  I  am  only  trying  to 
show  that  it  fits  in  with  my  theory. 

I  have  not  been  able  to  say  what  machinery  erects  a 
staircase  on  a  contradiction,  but  then  the  only  essential 
for  the  poet  is  to  give  die  reader  a  chance  to  build  an 
interesting  one ;  there  are  continual  opportunities  in  the 
most  normal  uses  of  language.  Any  statement  of 
identity  between  terms  already  defmed  ('  God  is  love  ') 
is  a  contradiction  because  you  already  know  they  are  not 
identical ;  you  have  to  ignore  senses  diat  would  be  un- 
important ('  the  first  cause  was  a  creative  impulse ') 
and  there  are  likely  to  be  degrees  in  which  the  two  may 
be  called  identical  which  lead  to  different  important 
senses.  That  the  process  is  not  simple  is  obvious  when 
you  turn  them  round ;  *  love  is  God  '  would  be  quite 
different.  *  Might  is  Right '  and  '  Right  is  Might ' 
were  felt  to  be  clear  and  opposite  statements  of  ethical 
theory,  and  it  is  not  clear  how  this  was  possible.    It  is 

143 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

no  good  to  read  them  as  *  if  a  man  has  might,  then  he 
has  right/  etc. ;   a  supporter  of  this  opinion  would  say 
that  if  a  man  has  no  might  he  has  no  right,  and  the  two 
sentences  are  still  identical.     The  same  applies  to  the 
similar  interpretations  '  Might  is  a  member  of  the  class 
Right/  etc. ;   it  would  be  the  only  member  of  its  class. 
I  think  these  arc  at  work ;  the  analogy  of  the  second  word 
to  an  adjective  in  this  version  shows  how  the  first  is 
felt  to  be  the  more  solid  and  unchangeable.     But  the 
second  word  is  in  fact  belittled  rather  than  made  in- 
clusive.   Yet  you  cannot  read  them  simply  as  substitu- 
tions ;    *  always  say  might  instead  of  right ;    there  is 
no  reason  for  not  making  a  full  use  of  power'  and  *  never 
calculate  chances ;  to  be  in  the  right  is  the  only  thing  to 
be  considered/    These  are  present  and  seem  to  control 
the  senses  from  the  back,  but  the  subdued  word  is  still 
there  and  is  not  negated.    Right  in  the  first  is  some  sort 
of  justification  and  might  in  the  second  some  sort  of 
hope  or  claim.     *  A  great  and  crowded  nation  has  the 
right  to  expand  ' ;    '  because  we  have  right  on  our  side 
we  are  certain  to  win/    A  vague  sense  that  *  is '  has  other 
uses  than  the  expression  of  identity  makes  us  ready  to 
find  meanings  in  such  sentences ;  this  may  well  have  been 
the  historical  reason  why  it  was  too  convenient  to  be 
simplified.     But  the  principle  of  language  that  makes 
the  two  different  is  simply  a  traffic  rule ;   die  two  words 
are  felt  to  cover  some  of  the  same  ground  and  in  some 
cases  of  conflict  the  first  has  the  right  of  way. 

It  might  I  think  also  be  argued  that  any  contradiction 
implies  a  regress,  though  not  one  definite  one.  To  say 
that  it  is  always  an  example  o(  the  supreme  process  of 
seeing  the  Many  as  One  is  to  ignore  the  differences  in 
the  feelings  aroused  by  different  examples ;    but  there 

144 


: 


MARVELI/S  GARDEN 

may  always  be  a  less  ambitious  process  at  work  that  uses 
similar  machinery.  The  pretence  that  two  words  are 
identical  acts  as  a  hint  that  they  have  been  fitted  into 
some  system,  in  which  each  key  word  is  dependent  on 
the  others,  like  the  parts  of  an  organism ;  admittedly 
the  words  are  not  the  same  but  they  have  been  *  unified.' 
One  characteristic  of  an  organism  is  diat  you  can  only 
change  it  (as  a  whole  and  without  killing  it)  by  a  process 
like  edging  up  a  chimney  in  rock-climbing ;  one 
element  must  be  changed  to  the  small  extent  that  the 
elasticity  of  the  system  allows  and  then  the  others  must 
be  changed  to  fit  it.  So  to  find  your  way  into  the 
interpretation  seems  essentially  a  process  of  shifting  the 
words  again  and  again.  This  at  least  describes  the  sense 
of  richness  (readiness  for  argument  not  pursued)  in  such 
language  and  the  fact  that  one  ambiguity,  even  though 
obtained  in  several  parallel  words,  is  not  enough  for  it. 

That  this  talk  about  a  hierarchy  of  *  levels '  is  vague 
I  can  cheerfully  admit ;  the  idea  is  generally  vague  in  the 
authors  who  use  it,  and  none  the  less  powerful  for  being 
left  in  a  suggestive  form.  But  the  three  central  verses  of 
the  Marvell  poem  are  at  least  a  definite  example ;  in  the 
course  of  suggesting  various  interlocking  hierarchies 
(knowing  that  you  know  that  you  know,  reconciling 
the  remaining  unconscious  with  the  increasing  con- 
sciousness, uniting  in  various  degrees  perception  and 
creation,  the  one  and  the  many),  it  docs  in  fact  rise 
through  a  hierarchy  of  three  sharply  contrasted  styles 
and  with  them  give  a  more  and  more  inclusive  account  of 
the  mind's  relation  to  Nature.  Only  a  metaphysical  poet 
with  so  perfect  a  sense  of  form  and  so  complete  a  control 
over  the  tricks  of  the  style,  at  the  end  of  its  development, 
could  actually  dramatise  these  hints  as  he  gave  them. 

k  145 


Milton  and  Bentley 

The  Pastoral  of  the  Innocence  of 
Man  and  Nature 


BENTLEY' S  escapade  has  remained  something  of  a 
scandal ;  if  he  was  really  incapable  of  understanding 
Milton,  said  Mrs.  Woolf,  how  far  can  we  credit  these 
eminent  classicists  on  their  own  ground  ?  Or  is  it  Milton, 
after  all,  whose  language  must  not  be  taken  seriously,  as 
if  he  was  a  real  classic  ?  English  critics  adopt  a  curious 
air  of  social  superiority  to  Bentley;  he  is  the  Man  who 
said  the  Tactless  Thing.  There  seems  no  doubt  that  he 
raised  several  important  questions  about  Milton's  use 
of  language,  that  no  one  could  answer  them  at  the 
time,  and  that  it  is  still  worth  while  to  look  for  the 
answer. 

So  far  as  I  know,  Zachary  Pearce,  later  a  bishop,  only, 
of  the  many  contemporary  opponents  of  Bentley  (his 
first  notes  on  the  edition  were  rushed  out  the  same  year), 
did  not  take  refuge  in  being  rude.  The  result  is  that 
they  seem  very  alike,  both  in  their  merits  and  their 
limitations ;  Pearce  often  gave  in  to  Bentley,  or  gave 
more  plausible  emendations  (as  by  altering  punctuation) 
so  as  to  accept  Bentlcy's  objections,  when  nowadays  the 
original  text  seems  normal  and  beautiful.  Pearce  often 
gives  valuable  help,  but  for  a  serious  answer  he  counts 
as  on  Bentlcy's  side ;  he  is  even  more  *  rational ' ; 
which  may  help  to  make  Bentley  seem  less  stupid. 

The  anonymous  rudeness  (some  of  which  was  Pearce 's 
own)  is  as  charming  as  the  rest  of  the  controversy.  For 
Bentlcy's  inquiry  about  *  darkness  visible  ' : 

Ah,  these  Poets,  these  Poets,  with  their  bold  Figures  and 
Flights,  and  all  that,  I'gad,  do  often  leave  us  in  the  Dark :  Hey, 

149 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Doctor  .  .  .  No,  no,  my  Friend,  this  Note  is  none  of  ours;  It 
has  indisputably  been  foisted  in  by  some  Dunce  of  an  Editor. 

Lay  vanquished,  rolling  in  the  fiery  flood. 

vanquished.  This  is  too  low  a  Word,  you  desire  it  may  be — 
Lay  stonied,  stoundcd,  stunnd.  With  all  my  Heart,  they  are  words 
which  are  astoundingly  Sublime  and  Poetical. 

Four  speedy  cherubim 

Put  to  their  mouths  the  sounding  alchemy 

sturdy,  stout,  robust,  able  to  blow  a  strong  Blast — Um,  this  is 
like  stonied,  stounded,  stunn'd,  i.  52. 

They  arc  alike,  I  think,  because  the  alliteration  makes 
one  feci  that  Bcntley  is  trying  to  write  his  own  poetry, 
but  this  man  has  not  yet  thought  why  they  are  alike; 
we  are  given  his  4  reactions ' ;  it  would  be  good  talk  if 
he  had  just  picked  the  book  up  at  a  coffee-house. 

v.  602.    All  but  the  wakeful  Nightingale. 

You  read  not  all,  instead  of  all  but ;  for  the  Owls,  you  say,  did 
not  Strike  off  at  the  Approach  of  Darkness  any  more  than  the 
Nightingale.  Why,  truiy..  Doctor,  it  was  a  little  careless  of  the 
Poet,  not  to  take  any  notice  at  all  of  the  poor  Owl.  But  you 
sec  what  the  world  was  come  to  even  in  Milton's  time ;  every- 
thing that  was  solemn  and  grave  neglected. 

This  was  the  only  safe  method ;  continually  Pearce's 
detailed  replies  offer  the  pathetic  spectacle  of  a  man 
knowing  that  the  original  text  was  somehow  more 
beautiful,  but  bound  to  confess  that  it  could  not  be 
defended.  Thus  he  never  takes  refuge  in  the  *  sound ' 
of  a  passage,  even  under  the  most  shocking  provocation, 
whereas  Bcntley  often  does ;  and  not  till  the  tenth  book 
does  he  break  out  with  the  claim  that  reason  could  do 
it  in  the  end,  but  there  was  no  room  for  her  to  do  it  in 
notes  reasonably  long. 

150 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

x.  8 1 8.  Dr.  B.  would  have  us  throw  out  this  whole  Passage  as 
the  Editors :  but  to  approve  or  disapprove  of  it,  depends  on  Taste, 
which  is  a  thing  of  so  nice  a  Nature,  that  reasons  cannot  always  be 
assigned  for  it,  at  least  in  so  small  a  compass  as  these  Notes  are 
commonly  drawn  up  in :  and  it  is  a  thing  in  which  I  fear  that  the 
Doctor  and  I  shall  hardly  ever  agree. 

Not  till  the  tenth  book.  It  may  be  worth  quoting  them 
both  on  the  '  sound  '  issue. 

vi.  178.  God  and  Nature  bid  the  same, 

When  he  who  rules  is  worthiest,  and  excells 
Them  whom  he  governs. 

Bentley  emends  governs  to  *  rules/  because  '  The  word 
Rules  in  the  Repetition  has  more  Force  and  Rotundity 
than  Governs.*  Pearce  replies  that  Abdiel  here  wishes 
4  to  soften  the  accusation  of  Servitude ' ;  so  that  the 
ruler  indeed  has  a  forcible  word,  but  a  milder  word  is 
used  from  the  point  of  view  of  his  subjects. 

When   Bentley   destroys   the  superb   words   of  the 
Creation — 

Silence,  ye  troubl'd  waves,  and  thou  Deep,  peace 

with  an  emendation  *  Peace,  thou  Deep/  Pearce  finds  a 
logical  objection  only :  *  better  that  the  most  significant 
and  commanding  word  should  stand  last  in  the  sentence/ 
A  modern  critic  would  appeal  to  the  sound,  but  the 
point  about  the  merit  of  the  sound  is  best  brought  out 
by  the  appeal  to  die  meaning. 

over  head  the  dismal  hiss 
Of  fiery  Darts  in  flaming  volies  flew. 

Bentley  is  sympathetic  about  this,  and  does  not  deny 
that  Milton  wrote  it ;  but  '  the  danger  is,  of  deserting 
Propriety,  while  he's  hunting  after  Sound  and  Tumour/ 
so  he  makes  the  darts  fly  instead  of  the  hiss.     Pearce, 

151 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

with  no  such  reference  to  sound,  and  backed  by  preced- 
ents, replies  that  *  there  is  a  peculiar  Force  in  applying 
that  to  the  Circumstance  of  a  Thing,  which  properly 
belongs  to  the  Thing  itself  (it  is  allied  to  personification). 

In  such  cases  he  puts  a  more  exclusive  stress  on  meaning 
than  Bentley  himself;  it  is  the  more  serious  that  he  lost 
so  many  points ;  it  had  a  bad  effect  on  criticism.  Reason 
had  to  be  muzzled,  and  Bentley  hooted  as  a  pedant, 
because  reason  obviously  gave  the  wrong  answer.  This 
at  least  Bentley  was  not ;  lie  has  ample  vigour  and  good 
sense  and  some  of  his  most  rousing  attacks  arc  against 
the  pedantry  of  Milton ;  for  instance  the  comment  on 
the  muster-roll  of  geography  in  xi.  387-411:  '  Very 
useful,  if  he  was  explaining  to  a  young  Boy  a  Sheet  Map 
of  the  World/  It  was  not  Bentley  who  found  his 
*  last  reward  of  consummate  scholarship  '  in  picking  up 
Milton's  learned  hints.  That  his  failure  was  so  crashing 
was  a  melancholy  accident ;  it  was  not  that  his  methods 
were  wrong  but  that  the  mind  of  Milton  was  very 
puzzling,  as  his  methods  showed.  I  think  this  topic 
worth  some  attention  because  Bentley  has  been  used  as 
a  bogey ;  he  scared  later  English  critics  into  an  anxiety 
to  show  that  they  were  sympathetic  and  did  not  mind 
about  the  sense.  One  has  only  to  compare  such  duellists 
as  Pearce  and  Bentley,  who  raise  questions  at  every 
point,  however  they  fail  to  answer  them,  which  concern 
the  essence  of  the  poetry  they  arc  considering,  with  the 
mild  and  tactful  hints,  the  air  of  a  waiter  anxious  not 
to  interrupt  the  conversation,  of  a  sensible  nineteenth- 
century  editor  like  Masson. 

As  a  rule,  then,  I  shall  try  to  wipe  the  eye  of  both  of 
them,  and  show  that  though  the  question  is  real  the  answer 
justifies  Milton.     The  '  psychological '  manner,  which 

152 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

their  failure  shows  to  be  necessary,  may  easily  be  offen- 
sive ;  it  implies  that  Milton  wrote  in  a  muddle  without 
knowing  his  own  mind.  As  a  rule,  if  Milton's  sym- 
pathies were  divided,  he  understood  the  conflict  he  was 
dramatising,  and  if  the  result  is  hard  to  explain  it  is  easy 
to  feel.  But  I  shall  take  first,  to  win  sympathy  for  the 
Doctor,  some  cases  where  I  think  he  is  right,  where  there 
is  a  muddle  whose  effect  is  unsatisfying.  In  any  case  it 
is  refreshing  to  see  the  irruption  of  his  firm  sense  into 
Milton's  world  of  harsh  and  hypnotic,  superb  and 
crotchety  isolation ;  Sir  Walter  Raleigh  said  that  there 
could  not  have  been  a  child  in  Paradise  Lost,  because  one 
touch  of  common  sense  would  have  destroyed  it;  it 
was  left  for  the  great  Doctor  to  take  upon  himself 
this  important  role.  Nearly  all  the  critics  have  shown 
faint  distress  when  Raphael  is  entertained  by  our  parents 
at  a  fruitarian  meal  with  fruit  beverages,  '  no  fear  lest 
dinner  cool,'  and  '  holds  discourse  '  about  how 

food  alike  those  pure 
Intelligential  substances  require 
As  doth  your  Rational  .  .  . 
.  .  .  they  hear,  see,  smell,  touch,  taste, 
Tasting  concoct,  digest,  assimilate, 
And  corporeal  to  incorporeal  turn. 

*  If  the  Devils  want  feeding,  our  Author  made  poor 
provision  for  them  in  his  Second  Book;  where  they 
have  nothing  to  eat  but  Hell-fire;  and  no  danger  of 
their  dinner  cooling.'  This  is  adequate ;  it  sends  one  back 
to  the  text  in  a  fit  state  to  appreciate  poetry  .when  the 
author  next  grants  us  some;  it  is  a  snort  worthy  of  the 
nostrils  of  Milton  himself. 

Here  Milton  went  on  putting  concrete  for  abstract 
till  it  became  absurd;    sometimes  he  uses  vague  poetic 

153 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

language  which  conflicts  with  concrete  details  already 
settled.  The  difficulty  is  that  we  are  asked  to  believe 
the  scheme  as  a  whole. 

Such  Pleasure  took  the  Serpent  to  behold 
This  Flouric  Plat,  the  sweet  recess  of  Eve 
Thus  earlier,  thus  alone  ;  her  Heav'nly  Forme 
Angelic,  but  more  soft,  and  Feminine, 
Her  graceful  Innocence,  her  every  Aire 
Of  gesture  or  least  action  overawd 
His  malice. 

Angelic.  '  So  we  must  suppose,  that  she  has  Six  Wings, 
as  Raphael  had/  More  soft.  (In  i.  423  the  spirits  can 
assume  either  sex,  are  uncompounded,  and  not  manacled 
with  joint  or  limb).  *  If  Eve  had  been  more  soft  .  .  . 
than  such  were,  she  had  been  no  Fit  Mate  for  her  Hus- 
band/ Pearcc  replies '  Why  may  not  Angelic  be  spoken 
metaphorically,  as  well  as  Heavenly,  which  certainly  is 
so  ? '  but  we  ought  not  to  have  to  be  fobbed  off  when 
there  are  live  walking  metaphors  just  round  the  corner. 
A  similar  case,  where  they  both  shy  rightly  at  Milton's 
evasive  use  of  language,  shows  the  process  of  finding 
concrete  for  abstract  caught  half-way ;  it  has  the  squalid 
gelatinous  effect  of  ectoplasm  in  a  flashlight  photograph. 

The  aggregated  Soyle 
Death  with  his  Mace  pctrific,  cold  and  dry, 
As  with  a  Trident  smote,  and  fix't  as  firm 
As  Delos  floating  once  ;  the  rest  his  look 
Bound  with  Gorgoni.m  rigor  not  to  move 
And  with  Asphaltic  slime ;  broad  as  the  Gate, 
Deep  to  the  Roots  of  Hell  the  gather'd  beach 
They  fasten'd. 

*  Bound  witli  rigor  and  with  slime.  That  could  not,  or  at 
least  must  not,  pass  from  Milton/  So  he  emends  and 
to  *  as,'  and  Pearcc  fights  a  rearguard  action  to  change 

154 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

only  the  stops.  It  would  be  a  grand  clash  in  an  Eliza- 
bethan; they  can  afford  to  confuse  cause  and  effect, 
abstract  and  concrete,  because  there  is  no  doubt  that  they 
mean  something  solid,  but  Milton  will  see  us  damned 
if  we  don't  believe  his  story,  and  we  expect  him  to 
believe  it  himself. 

Pearce  insists  at  one  point,  widi  an  air  of  defending 
Milton  against  outrageous  insult,  that  his  scheme  could 
not  possibly  be  inconsistent  if  carefully  enough  considered. 
I  cannot  think  it  an  Augustan  stupidity  to  expect  this; 
I  too  find  it  irritating  when  the  sun  suddenly  takes  to 
wheels  (v.  140),  when  prayers  are  at  last  found  to  be  as 
solid  as  angels  (xi.  14),  when  Hell,  in  the  twelfth  book, 
is  replanted  inside  the  earth  (41)  and  heaven  placed  in 
reach  of  Babel  (50).  There  is  a  touch  of  the  window- 
dressing  of  the  Sugar-Cane  about  these  muddles,  which 
have  no  purpose,  and  about  the  following  astronomical 
ones,  whose  purpose  is  disingenuous. 

Satan  at  the  top  of  the  universe 

Looks  down  with  wonder  on  the  sudden  view 
Of  all  this  world  at  once  .  .  .  from  pole  to  pole 
He  views  its  breadth.  .  .  . 

Then  he  moves  towards  it 

Amongst  innumerable  stars,  that  shone 

Stars  distant,  but  nearby  seemed  other  worlds. 

Raphael  from  the  same  place  sees  the  world  as 

Not  unconform  to  other  shining  globes 

but  can  sec  cedars  on  it.  No  doubt  the  angels  have  good 
eyesight,  but  the  purpose  is  clear.  When  the  Earth  is 
looked  at  fair  and  square  it  is  very  large  and  well  in  the 
centre  of  dungs;  only  incidentally,  to  add  grandeur 
and  seem  up-to-date,  is  it  a  small  planet  attached  to  one 

155 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

of  innumerable  stars.  Copernicus  is  too  strong  to  be 
ignored,  so  one  must  show  one  is  broadminded  and  then 
have  him  attacked  by  Raphael  (viii.  73).  These  are 
trivial  enough  points,  and  Milton  is  wholly  entitled  to 
muddles  when  serious  forces  are  at  work  in  them,  when 
they  carry  the  complexity  of  Ins  poetic  material;  as 
in  some  other  muddles  about  stars  and  perhaps  in  the 
many  about  the  sex  of  the  angels.  But  his  mixture  of 
pomposity  and  evasiveness  makes  him  fair  game  as 
soon  as  they  arc  not  justified ;  he  left  a  grim  posterity 
of  shoddy  thinking  in  blank  verse. 

Given  this  fundamental  sympathy  with  Bentley's 
outlook  one  can  view  his  worst  efforts  with  affection 
and  pleasure,  and  be  properly  charmed  by  the  note 
where  Satan,  disguised  as  a  familiar  toad,  is  whispering 
ill  dreams  to  the  sleeping  Eve.  '  Why  may  I  not  add 
one  Verse  to  A////o/z,  as  well  as  his  Editor  add  so  many  ? ' 
inquires  Bentlcy  with  the  innocent  wilfulness  of  the 
great  Victoria : 

Him  thus  intent  Ithuricl  with  his  spear, 
Knowing  no  real  Toad  durst  there  intrude, 
Touch'd  lightly. 

It  is  the  Doctor  who  dare  intrude  anywhere  and  will 
never  whisper  any  harmful  fancies.  *  Here,  you  see,  the 
Versification  and  Sentiment  are  quite  of  a  Piece.  How 
naturally  docs  the  Movement  of  the  Line  imitate  the 
croaking  of  a  Toad ! '  It  is  like  dogs  who  cannot  bear 
not  to  join  in  the  singing.  Let  me  quote  the  funniest 
remark  of  Pcarce  at  once,  and  have  done  with  tins 
facetious  tone. 

out  from  the  ground  uprose 
As  from  his  Lai  re  the  Wilde  Beast  where  he  worms 
In  Forrest  wilde 

156 


\ 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

'  Lair  or  Layer  signifies  bed,  the  use  of  which  Word  is 
still  kept  up  among  us,  when  we  say,  that  in  potted 
Meats  there  is  a  Lair  of  one  thing  above  a  Lair  of  another/ 
One  had  thought  this  horror  peculiar  to  modern  life. 

The  most  obvious  case  where  neither  Bentley  nor 
Pearce  can  approve  Milton's  method  is  where  he  uses 
a  serious  secret  pun. 

iv.  264.  The  Birds  thir  quire  apply ;  aires,  vernal  aires, 
Breathing  the  smell  of  field  and  grove,  attune 
The  trembling  leaves. 

*  Air,  when  taken  for  the  Element,  has  no  Plural  Number, 
in  Greek,  Latin,  or  English ;  where  Airs  signify  Tunes. 
.  .  .  Therefore  he  must  give  it  here;  Air  .  .  .  attunes.* 
Pearce  gives  tolerable  authority  for  taking  different 
airs  for  different  breezes.  But  it  is  strange  that  Bentley 
should  actually  use  the  word  tunes,  and  then  quote  the 
word  attunes,  and  still  not  see  there  is  a  pun.  The  airs 
attune  the  leaves  because  the  air  itself  is  as  enlivening 
as  an  air;  the  trees  and  wild  flowers  that  are  smelt  on 
the  air  match,  as  if  they  caused,  as  if  they  were  caused 
by,  the  birds  and  leaves  that  are  heard  on  the  air ;  nature, 
because  of  a  pun,  becomes  a  single  organism.  A  critical 
theory  is  powerful  indeed  when  it  can  blind  its  holders 
to  so  much  beauty. 

iv.  555.    Thither  came  Uriel,  gliding  through  the  Eev'n 
On  a  Sun  beam. 

*  I  never  heard  but  here,  that  the  Evening  was  a  Place 
or  Space  to  glide  through.  Evening  implies  Time,  and 
he  might  with  equal  propriety  say:  Came  gliding 
though  Six  a  clock.  But  it's  the  Printer's  Language: 
the  Author  gave  it,  gliding  through  the  heaven.'  Pearce 
gives  precedent  for  coming  through  the  evening,  and 

157 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

points  out  that  the  part  of  the  earth  occupied  by  evening 
is  a  place,  especially  to  so  astronomical  a  creature.  I 
am  glad  not  to  have  to  tell  them  what  was  evidently 
in  Milton's  mind ;  that  the  angel  is  sliding,  choosing  a 
safe  gradient,  down  a  nearly  even  sunbeam;  like  the 
White  Knight  on  the  poker.  But  as  so  often  when 
Milton  is  on  the  face  of  it  indefensible  the  line  seems  to 
absorb  the  harshness  of  its  absurdity;  the  pun  gives 
both  Uriel  and  the  sunset  a  vast  and  impermanent 
equilibrium ;  it  is  because  of  the  inevitable  Fall  of  our 
night  that  he  falls  to  earth,  in  the  hush  and  openness  of 
evening,  himself  in  a  heroic  calm. 

vi.  483.    These  in  their  dark  Nativitie  the  Deep 

Shall  yield  us,  pregnant  with  infernal  flame. 

(Satan,  while  yet  in  Heaven,  in  the  first  triumph  of  his 
invention  of  artillery.)  Pcarce  says  *  we  may  suppose 
the  Epithet  infernal  to  have  been  added  to  flame,  that  it 
might  stand  oppos'd  to  HeavVs  ray  mentioned  in  1.  480. 
.  .  .  But  (says  the  Dr.)  it  is  too  soon  yet  for  Satan  to 
mention  infernal  flame.  That  is  too  hard  to  be  proved : 
Hell  had  been  mentioned  in  the  speeches  of  the  Com- 
batants on  the  preceding  Day,  viz.  in  v.  186,  276,  291/ 
Satan  says,  as  a  fact,  that  he  will  fetch  fire  *  from  below  ' 
to  answer  die  fire  of  God;  he  says,  as  a  pun  and  a 
defiance,  if  we  may  suppose  him  to  have  understood  the 
previous  day's  hints  about  hell,  that  he  will  use  the  fire 
of  punishment  as  the  material  of  victory,  and  the  voice 
of  Milton  behind  him  assures  us  that  they  are  pregnant 
with  more  fire  than  they  have  planned. 

This  horror  will  grow  mild,  this  darkness  light. 

4  'Tis  quite  too  much  that  the  Darkness  turn  into  Light, 
'tis  as  if  he  had  made  Horror  turn  into  Joy.*     *  Surely 

158 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

this  was  no  more  than  for  Horror  to  turn  to  Mild,  for 
both  Mild  and  Light  don't  express  the  highest  degree, 
but  only  something  that,  by  comparison  with  what 
they  then  suffered,  might  be  called  Mild  and  Light* 
I  quote  this  as  a  very  slight  pun  which  yet  has  an  effect, 
which  Bcntley  is  right  in  noticing.  Both  these  senses 
are  present,  and  the  combination  allows  Belial  to  suggest 
high  hopes  without  obvious  absurdity. 

As  for  the  conscious  puns  of  Satan's  mockery,  of 
course  they  both  recognise  those  easily  enough.  Pcarcc 
can  *  make  no  attempt  to  defend  '  the  pun  about  infantry, 
but  Bcntley  is  willing  to  defend  puns  so  long  as  they 
are  funny. 

.  .  .  the  Passages  of  Satan  and  Belial's  Jesting  have  been  censured 
by  an  Ingenious  Gentleman,  who  had  a  settled  Aversion  to  all 
Puns,  as  they  are  call'd  . . .  if  that  Niceness  be  carry 'd  to  Extremity, 
it  will  deprctiate  half  the  good  sayings  of  the  old  Greek  and 
Latin  Wits.  ...  He  copied  those  Jocose  Sayings  from  his  great 
predecessor  Homer. 

Here,  as  often,  Bentley  is  the  more  broad-minded  of 
the  two. 

Another  of  the  main  points  at  issue  concerns  Milton's 
rhythm;  there  seems  no  doubt  that  Bendey  didn't 
understand  it,  but  there  may  be  some  question  whether 
Pearce  did  or  not.  He  defended  the  text,  in  any  case 
where  the  rhythm  seemed  queer  to  Bentley,  by  pointing 
out  that  it  was  queer  in  many  other  cases  as  well;  it 
might  then,  one  would  suppose,  be  queer  on  some 
system,  if  such  a  system  could  be  conceived.  '  Milton 
affected  in  many  places  to  make  such  a  Roughness  as 
this  at  the  beginning  of  his  Verse.'  If  the  text  is  fre- 
quently rough,  and  roughness  is  a  fault,  that  only 
supports  Bentley's  view  that  the  text  has  frequently 

159 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

been  corrupted.     And  even  when  he  attempts  more 
positive  approval  it  is  hard  to  know  what  is  in  his  mind. 

Half  wheeling  to  the  shield,  half  to  the  spear. 
Our  minds,  and  teach  us  to  cast  off  this  yoke. 

'  The  bad  Measure  may  be  corrected  thus,'  etc.  '  But 
I  see  no  bad  Measure  at  all  in  the  common  Reading; 
the  small  stress  laid  in  the  pronunciation  upon  the  word 
to  does  not  in  my  opinion  injure  the  Verse.'  Is  a  stress, 
even  when  small,  a  long  syllabic,  or  a  short  stress  a  short 
syllabic  ?  The  discussion  comes  to  very  little  conclusion. 
At  the  last  moment,  however,  before  his  first  edition 
was  published,  Pcarce  suddenly  understood  a  Miltonic 
rhythm,  and  explained  it  at  the  end  of  die  preface ;  a 
dramatic  affair ;  it  shows  that  Bentley  was  some  use. 

No  sooner  had  th'  Almighty  ceas't,  but  all 
The  multitude  of  Angels  with  a  shout 
Loud  as  from  numbers  without  number,  sweet 
As  from  blest  voices,  uttering  joy,  Hcav'n  rung 
With  Jubilee,  and  loud  Hosannas  fill'd 
Th'  eternal  Regions. 

To  Bentley  this  was  evidently  not  grammar,  and  he  let 
in  a  couple  of  main  verbs,  like  ferrets.  Pearce  could 
only  save  the  text  by  putting  brackets  from  Heaven  to 
Hosannas,  so  that  it  is  the  angels  who  fdled  the  regions, 
with  a  shout.  In  the  preface  angels  uttering  joy  becomes 
an  ablative  absolute,  so  that  the  sentence  encloses  the 
hierarchy  as  if  with  effort  and  rises  through  four  hues 
to  the  main  verb. 

But  though  a  large-scale  rhythm  was  in  reach  of 
discovery  he  never  feels  that  the  iambic  beat  could  be 
seriously  tampered  with ;   both  of  them  find 

Dropped  from  the  Zenith,  like  a  falling  star 
quite  impossible;    and  it  is  Bentley  who  suspects  that 

1 60 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

the  line  about  the  unwieldy  elephant  may  actually  be 
intended  to  be  rough. 

People  are  now  agreed  in  approving  Milton's  rhythms, 
and  accepting  his  subdued  puns  without  looking  at 
them  closely.  I  don't  know  what  is  the  normal  view 
about  his  vague  or  apparently  disordered  grammar, 
which  Bentley  thought  indefensible;  especially  the  use 
of  and  or  or  when  the  sense  needs  more  detailed  logical 
structure.  Pcarce  defended  it  very  little.  The  chief 
reason  for  it  is  that  Milton  aims  both  at  a  compact  and 
weighty  style,  which  requires  short  clauses,  and  a  sus- 
tained style  with  the  weight  of  momentum,  which 
requires  long  clauses. 

vii.  113.  to  recount  Almightie  works 

What  words  or  tongue  of  Seraph  can  suffice, 
Or  heart  of  man  suffice  to  comprehend  f 

Bentley  emends  to  *  words  from  tongue,'  but  thereby 
loses  the  completeness  of  the  statement ;  *  How  can  any 
stage  in  the  production  of  the  speech  of  seraphs  be 
adequate ;  how  can  they  find  words,  and  if  they  could 
how  could  their  tongues  pronounce  them  ?  '  But 
besides  this,  the  merit  of  or  is  its  fluidity ;  the  way  it 
allows  *  words  from  tongue  '  to  be  suggested  without 
pausing  for  analysis,  without  holding  up  the  single 
movement  of  the  line. 

xi.  273-285.  O  flours, 

That  never  will  in  other  Climate  grow,    , 
'  My  early  visitation,  and  my  last 

At  Eev'n,  which  I  bred  up  with  tender  hand 
From  the  first  op'ning  buds,  and  gave  ye  Names, 
Who  now  shall  reare  ye  to  the  Sun,  or  ranke 
Your  Tribes,  and  water  from  th'  ambrosial  Fount  i 

L  l6l 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Thee  lastly,  nuptial  Bowrc,  by  mcc  adornd 
With  what  vo  sight  or  smell  was  sweet ;  from  thee 
How  shall  I  part,  and  whither  wander  down 
Into  a  lower  World,  to  this  obscure 
And  wilde,  how  shall  we  breathe  in  other  Aire 
Less  pure,  acustomed  to  immortal  Fruits  i 

I  have  quoted  a  whole  passage  to  show  the  accumulation 
of  its  imagery.  Bentley  objects  to  the  last  lines :  '  What 
do  the  Fruits,  now  to  be  parted  with,  signify  to  her 
Breathing  in  other  Air  ?  There  was  to  be  a  change  oiDiet 
too,  as  well  as  of  Air ' ;  so  he  emends  it  to  *  Air  less  pure  ? 
What  eat . . .'  Pearce  says,  *  To  eat  (for  the  future)  Fruits 
not  immortal,  and  to  have  Air  less  pure  too,  were  Cir- 
cumstances winch  might  well  justify  her  sollicitous  enquiry 
about  her  Breathing  in  the  lower  World ' ;  indeed  the 
sense  is  plain  enough.  But  the  effect  of  Bentley's  emenda- 
tion is  to  make  Eve's  pathos  into  a  declamatory  piece  of 
argument.  The  sliding,  sideways,  broadening  movement, 
normal  to  Milton,  is  exaggerated  into  a  non  sequitttr  to 
show  a  climax ;  on  the  other  hand,  in  the  tired  repeated 
rhythm  of  the  last  two  lines,  she  leaves  floating,  as  tilings 
already  far  off,  all  that  makes  up  for  her  the  *  atmosphere ' 
of  Paradise.  There  is  something  like  a  pun  in  the  way 
she  is  enabled  at  once  to  sum  up  her  argument  and  trail 
away  in  the  weakness  of  her  appeal ;  it  is  a  delicate  piece 
of  brushwork  such  as  seems  blurred  until  you  step  back. 
Pearce  is  clear  about  points  of  fluid  grammar,  as  one 
sees  from  his  fondness  for  brackets  to  bring  out  less 
obvious  connections. 

Taste  this,  and  be  henceforth  among  the  Gods 
Thyself  a  Goddess,  not  to  Earth  confin'd, 
But  sometimes  in  the  Air,  as  wee,  sometimes 
Ascend  to  Heav'n,  by  merit  thine,  and  see 
What  life  the  Gods  live  there,  and  such  live  thou. 

162 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

*  The  Words  as  wee,9  remarks  Pearce,  '  are  so  plac'd 
between  the  Sentences  as  equally  to  relate  to  both,  and 
in  the  first  Sentence  the  Verb  be  is  understood.  Dr.  B. 
has  altered  the  passage  thus : 

But  sometimes  range  in  air,  sometimes,  as  wee, 

But  in  this  reading  of  the  Doctor's  are  not  the  Angels 
excluded  from  ranging  in  the  Air  ?  *  Surely  there  is 
a  dramatic  reason  for  the  gawkiness  of  the  line  here ; 
the  doubt  implied  as  to  whether  he  could  go  to  Heaven 
himself  shows  a  natural  embarrassment  in  the  disguised 
Satan.  But  the  essential  step  is  to  notice,  as  Pearce  does, 
the  fluidity  of  the  grammar. 

He  also  recognises  implied  conceits  of  die  straight- 
forward kind  that  would  have  made  an  antithesis  for 
the  Augustan  couplet. 

ix.  631.  He  leading  swiftly  rowld 

In  tangles,  and  made  visible  seem  strait, 
To  mischief  swift. 

Bendey  dislikes  the  two  swifts,  but  *  the  Sense  rises  by 
repeating  the  same  word  with  a  new  Circumstance 
to  it.' 

Tangled  his  coils,  and  tangled  were  his  wiles, 
And  swift  he  marches,  who  so  swift  beguiles. 

It  is  rather  pretty  to  see  them  fitting  the  thing  into  their 
more  conscious  formula. 

Bendey's  merit  as  a  critic  of  Milton  is  of  a  different 
kind ;  he  may  only  produce  a  trivial  piece  of  nagging, 
but  he  has  a  flair  for  choosing  an  important  place  to 
do  it.  Thus  his  complaint  about  the  first  words  of 
Satan  seem  to  me  to  draw  attention  to  an  unexpected 
dramatic  subdety. 

163 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

If  thou  bccst  he ;  But  O  how  falTn !  how  chang*d 
From  him,  who  in  the  happy  Realms  of  Light 
Cloth'd  with  transcendent  brightness  didst  outshine 
Myriads  though  bright :  If  he  whom  mutual  league, 
United  thoughts  and  counsels,  equal  hope, 
And  hazard  in  the  Glorious  Enterprise, 
Joyned  with  me  once,  now  misery  hath  joynd 
In  equal  ruin :  into  what  pit  thou  seest 
From  what  highth  fal'n,  so  much  the  stronger  provd 
He  with  his  Thunder ;  and  who  knew  till  then 
The  force  of  those  due  Arms.  .  .  . 

Bentley  emends  dothjoyn  And  equal  ruin.  *  See  the  series 
of  the  whole  sentence :  Whom  mutual  league,  united 
counsels,  equal  hope  and  hazard  in  our  Revolt,  joined  with 
me  once,  viz.  in  close  friendship ;  Now  Misery  hath 
joind ;  in  what  ?  in  closer  friendship  ?  no,  in  equal 
Ruin.  Great  Sense,  and  great  Comfort  in  this  great 
Calamity.  Equal  Ruin,  in  reddition  to  equal  hope,  now 
again  joins  us  in  a  stricter  friendship.1  Pearce  accepts  and, 
*  very  right  and  necessary,  I  think,'  but  exclaims  *  how 
unpoerical  is  doth  join.' 

The  main  objection  here  is  that  the  words  claim  to 
give  a  source  of  comfort,  and  do  not.  They  claim  to 
give  what  resolution  may  be  gained  from  despair.  But 
I  think  the  shift  Bentley  describes  is  part  of  the  thought, 
and  explains  what  in  such  a  speaker  needs  explanation 
even  at  such  a  moment,  the  reason  why  Satan  breaks  his 
sentence.  He  begins  speaking  to  Beelzebub  as  an  equal, 
and  then,  strengthened  by  his  own  rhetoric,  feels  that 
this  would  be  excessive  *  comfort '  for  a  rival  angel. 
If  their  hope  (personal  advantage  hoped  for)  in  the 
enterprise  was  equal  they  both  hoped  to  rule ;  if  their 
ruin  (personal  loss  of  glory)  is  equal  they  were  once 
equal  in  glory.     Satan  breaks  the  sentence  with  into 

164 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

what  pit,  and  their  equal  ruin  (as  in  ruining  from  heaven), 
in  being  attracted  by  into,  may  now  only  be  their  equal 
physical  fall.  From  then  on,  in  his  supreme  expression 
of  all  but  lunatic  heroism,  he  speaks  only  of  himself. 

Milton's  attitude  to  Satan  is  a  great  source  of  dis- 
agreement; Bcntlcy  rightly  finds  something  suspicious 
about  the  generosity  of  the  language  used,  and  picks 
out  some  curious  examples  of  it. 

xi.  101.       Take  to  thee  from  among  the  Cherubim 

Thy  choice  of  flaming  Warriors,  least  the  Fiend 
Or  on  behalf  of  Man,  or  to  invade 
Vacant  possession  some  new  trouble  raise. 

Bentley  emends  or  on  behalf  of  man  to  *  or  in  despite  to 
us ' ;  *  Whence  came  tins  new  Good-will  to  Man  from 
the  Arch-Enemy  ? '  The  view  that  there  is  a  calculated 
progressive  decay  of  Satan  is  not  upheld  by  this  passage ; 
it  comes  very  late  and  had  to  be  striking  for  Bentley  to 
bother  about  it ;  he  is  beginning  to  explain  he  is  old  and 
tired,  and  repeat  his  arguments. 

ix.  1 66.       O  foul  descent !  that  I  who  erst  contended 

With  Gods  to  sit  the  highest,  and  now  constrained 
Into  a  Beast,  and  mixt  with  bestial  slime, 
This  essence  to  incarnate  and  imbrute, 
That  to  the  hight  of  Deitie  aspir'd. 

*  Milton  would  not  use  thus  the  word  Incarnate ;  He 
knew  a  higher  Essence,  than  Seraphical,  was  afterwards 
Incarnated ' ;  indeed  I  think  one  may  trace  even  here 
that  curious  parallel  between  Satan  and  the  Christ, 
which  makes  the  scenes  in  Heaven  and  Hell  correspond 
to  one  another  so  closely.  But  perhaps  it  is  radier  Man 
than  the  Son  of  Man  who  complains  in  his  words. 

There  is  an  odd  phrase,  or  as  Bentley  puts  it  *  a  shocking 
expression/   in   one   of  these  parallel  passages,   which 

165 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

seems  to  show  a  flash  of  contempt  for  the  good  angels. 
Satan  in  the  second  book  chose  to  take  the  risk  on  his 
own  shoulders,  to  go  alone  to  the  new  world  for  the 
benefit  of  his  party  *  or  on  behalf  of  man.'  God  in  the 
third  book  tries  to  make  one  of  the  good  angels,  as  a 
similar  act  of  public  spirit,  go  to  the  world  to  redeem 
man ;  all  of  them  refuse. 

Say  Heav'nly  Powers,  where  shall  we  find  such  love, 
Which  of  ye  will  be  mortal  to  redeem 
Man's  mortal  crime,  and  just  th*  unjust  to  save, 
Dwels  in  all  Heaven  charity  so  deare  ? 

*  Lead  a  perfect  human  life  to  save  those  who  are  im- 
perfect '  is  of  course  the  sense  from  which  this  has 
diverged,  but  *  which  of  ye  will  be  just '  is  a  piercing 
question  for  the  immaculate  hierarchy. 

vii.  55.  things  to  thir  thought 

So  unimaginable  as  hate  in  Heav'n, 

And  War  so  near  the  Peace  of  God  in  bliss 

With  such  confusion ; 

Bentley  emends  peace  to  *  scat,*  because  the  text  implies 
that  the  Peace  of  God  was  not  incapable  of  being  dis- 
turbed. It  docs  indeed ;  Milton  is  at  pains  to  give  this 
impression,  while  denying  that  it  is  true;  only  so  can 
Satan's  heroism  be  saved  from  a  taint  of  folly.  Perhaps 
the  strangest  means  adopted  to  make  one  feel  this  is 
the  ironical  speech  which  God,  *  smiling/  makes  to  his 
Son  when  the  attack  is  being  prepared  against  them. 

v.  726.     Let  us  advise,  and  to  this  hazard  draw 

With  speed  what  force  is  left,  and  all  imploy 

In  our  defence,  lest  unawares  we  lose 

This  our  high  place,  our  Sanctuarie,  our  Hill. 

One  accepts  this  in  reading  as  the  brutal  mockery  of  a 

166 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

much  superior  force,  but  it  does  not  seem  that  of  an 
absolutely  superior  force,  such  as  there  would  be  no 
sense  in  attacking. 

Indeed,  Satan  has  a  much  more  plausible  defence  on 
grounds  of  ignorance  than  Eve  had  (ix.  775) ;  he  does 
not  know  whether  God  is  of  like  nature  with  the  angels 
(v.  793)  and  sprang  into  existence  at  the  same  moment 
(v.  859;  but  there  is  a  young  cherub  in  iii.  637),  or 
whether  as  he  claims  he  is  almighty,  their  creator,  and 
of  absolutely  superior  nature.  Milton  himself  in  ii.  108, 
God  himself  in  iii.  341,  speak  of  the  angels  as  gods; 
Milton's  language  about  the  creation  (vii.  227  and  505) 
implies,  as  Bentley  pointed  out,  that  diey  were  not 
created;  and  Abdiel's  official  statement  in  v.  832,  that 
God  created  them  by  the  instrumentality  of  the  Son,  is 
in  flat  contradiction  with  v.  603,  where  the  angels  are 
shown  the  Son  when  he  is  newly  begotten.  Of  course 
we  are  supposed  to  know  about  God,  but  there  is  no 
clear  tradition  to  tell  us  how  much  Satan  knows — so 
far  as  there  is  Milton  is  at  pains  to  muddle  it.  If  Satan 
believed  God  to  be  a  usurping  angel  there  is  no  romantic 
diabolism  at  all  in  giving  him  our  heartiest  admiration. 
I  think  this  is  a  sharp  issue ;  what  the  critic  has  to  deal 
with  is  not  a  *  complex  personality '  but  one  plain 
character  superimposed  on  another  quite  separate  from  it. 

The  most  striking  single  example  of  this  dissolving- 
view  method  of  characterisation  occurs  when  Satan  is 
struck  *  stupidly  good '  on  his  fust  view  of  Adam 
and  Eve : 

whom  my  thoughts  pursue 
With  wonder,  and  with  love  .  .  . 

whom  I  could  pity  thus  forlorn 
Though  I  unpitied.  .  .  . 

167 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 
Milton  himself  is  providing  some  pity  here. 

League  with  you  I  seek 
And  mutual  amity  so  strcight,  so  close, 
That  I  with  you  must  dwell,  or  you  with  me 
Henceforth ;  my  dwelling  haply  may  not  please 
Like  this  fair  Paradise,  your  sense,  yet  such 
Accept  your  Maker's  gift ;  he  gave  it  me 
Which  I  as  freely  give ;  Hell  shall  unfold 
To  entertain  you  two,  her  widest  Gates, 
And  send  forth  all  her  kings. 

Bentley  found  the  terms  inaccurate  but  the  tone 
natural — a  brutal  irony  in  the  style  of  the  address  to  the 
gunners.  The  gates  of  hell  can  no  longer  be  either  shut 
or  opened  *  nor  need  he  lie  and  feign  here,  for  he  speaks 
to  himself  only/  and  the  emendation  is  arranged  to 
give  *  a  Sarcasm  rather  bitterer/  This  seems  to  be  the 
accepted  view,  though  a  sort  of  generosity,  a  sense  of 
the  grandeur  of  the  situation,  is  admitted  from  the 
parallel  in  Isaiah.  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  with  evasive 
humour,  said  it  was  *  true  hospitality/ 

But  Satan  might  mean  it  as  a  real  offer.  It  is  clear 
that  the  devils  can  carry  life  on  in  hell,  and  apparently 
men  can  only  suffer;  Satan  need  not  know  this;  the 
irony  is  that  of  Milton's  appalling  God.  The  two  views 
of  Satan  seem  actually  to  be  separated  to  the  two  ends 
of  the  sentence.  The  cuddling  movement  of  mutual 
amity,  with  the  flat  mouth  of  the  worm,  in  am-t  opening 
to  feed  on  them,  the  insinuating  hiss  of  so  streight,  so 
close,  full  of  the  delicious  softness  of  the  tormentor, 
belong  to  the  Satan  who  will  have  his  guests  tortured 
by  incongruous  Furies  (ii.  596) ;  so  the  voices  whispered 
to  Bunyan,  and  he  thought  his  bowels  would  burst 
within  him.  Then  there  is  a  patch  of  argufying,  in  which 
he  seems  to  feel  nothing,  as  a  connection  (one  might 

168 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

be  sentimentally  playful  like  this  before  killing  a  young 
pig).  And  only  the  theory  of  ignorance  provides  a 
character  for  the  last  three  lines;  their  melancholy 
and  their  grandeur  is  that  of  Milton's  direct  statements ; 
he  does  not  use  all,  his  key  word,  for  any  but  a  wholesale 
and  unquestioned  emotion ;  what  we  are  to  feel  here  is 
the  ruined  generosity  of  Satan  and  the  greatness  of  the 
fate  of  man.  It  seems  to  me  obviously  useless  to  try  and 
fit  the  two  into  a  consistent  character. 

The  subject  of  the  poem  is  not  a  personal  Satan  but  the 
Fall  of  Man ;    the  more  life  Milton  could  put  into  our 
feelings  about  Satan  the  better,  but  his  main  business 
was  to  convey  the  whole  range  of  feeling  inherent  in 
the  myth,  and  the  myth  clearly  involves  contradictions. 
Satan  is  both  a  devil  and  a  host  who  will  receive  man 
with  honour,  because  the  fall  of  a  man  is  terrible  and 
yet  just  this  shows  that  he  is  important  (which  makes 
the  belief  tolerable).     Satan  is  both  the  punishcr  of  sin 
and  the  supreme  sinner  (Milton  did  not  invent  this,  and 
in  neither  capacity  is  Satan  *  Milton  ') ;   these  are  com- 
bined because  *  sin  punishes  itself  and  turns  to  hatred/ 
because  *  it  is  hard  to  distinguish  sin  from  independent 
judgment,  courage,  the  force  needed  for  a  full  life/  and 
I  think  because  *  the  sinner  becomes  the  judge/    Then 
perhaps,  thirdly,  Satan  is  Milton  as  rebel  and  also  the 
paganism  Milton  had  renounced;    from  the  first  he 
has  bitterness,  from  the  second  the  sadism  of  the  Italianate 
stage  villain.     Now  of  course  no  mere  clash  between 
these  forces  would  be  a  substitute  for  a  conceivable 
Satan,  but  the  fact  that  at  this  crucial  point  there  is  a 
troubling  of  the  surface  of  the  coherent  Satan  somehow 
convinces  us  that  they  are  all  at  work.    It  acts  not  as  a 
puzzle  about  the  person  Satan  but  as  a  knot,  a  throttling 

169 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

irony,  in  the  myth ;  it  so  sharply  concentrates  the  forces 
of  the  story  that  we  are  impressed  at  their  not  breaking 
their  frame.  It  looks  like  a  dramatic  irony;  I  think  it 
is  more;  it  is  a  dramatic  failure  of  character. 

Bentley  is  always  ruthless  about  the  large  ornamental 
comparisons,  where  some  incident  in  the  story  has  a 
detail  in  common  with,  more  or  less  of  some  quality 
than,  some  otherwise  irrelevant  incident  which  is 
described  in  detail ;  he  classes  whole  paragraphs  of  them 
as  '  romantic,  and  inserted  by  the  editor.'  But  it  is  here 
that  Milton  shows  his  attitude  to  the  work  as  a  whole ; 
it  is  at  best  mere  protection  to  reply  as  Pearce  did  by 
talking  about  '  imagination/  I  shall  take  first  two  more 
examples  about  Satan.    Satan  flying  up  to  the  gates  of  hell 

Now  shaves  with  level  wing  the  Deep,  then  soares 

Up  to  the  fiery  concave  touring  high. 

As  when  far  off  at  Sea  a  Fleet  descri'd 

Hangs  in  the  Clouds,  by  Aequitwctial  Winds 

Close  sailing  from  Bengala,  or  the  lies 

Of  Temate  and  Tidore,  whence  Merchants  bring 

Thir  spicie  drugs ;  they  on  the  trading  flood 

Through  the  wide  Ethiopian  to  the  Cape 

Fly  stemming  nightly  toward  the  Pole.     So  seem'd 

Far  off  the  flying  Fiend  : 

Bentley  cuts  out  the  whole  passage.  Pearce's  defence 
amounts  to  claiming  charity  for  poets  who  have  classical 
authority  for  their  licences. 

As  to  what  he  adds,  why  is  this  all  done  nightly,  to  contradict  the 
whole  account,  since  at  that  time  a  sail  cannot  be  descried  i  It  may  be 
answered,  that  here  is  no  Contradiction  at  all ;  for  Milton  in  his 
Similitudes  (as  is  the  practice  of  Homer  and  Virgil  too)  after  he 
has  shown  the  common  resemblance,  often  takes  the  liberty  of 
wandering  into  some  unresembling  Circumstances :  which  have 
no  other  relation  to  the  Comparison,  than  that  they  gave  him  the 
Hint,  and  (as  it  were)  set  fire  to  the  Train  of  his  Imagination. 

170 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

The  trouble  is  that  this  defends  an  irrelevant  piece  of 
description,  one  which  is  merely  distracting,  as  well  as 
one  that  satisfies  the  imagination  through  implied 
comparisons  relevant  to  the  main  impulse  of  the 
poem. 

The  description  here  seems  entirely  of  this  second  sort. 
The  ships  ply  nightly  because  Satan  was  in  the  darkness 
visible  of  Hell;  are  far  off  so  that  they  hang  like  a 
mirage  and  seem  flying  like  Satan  (the  word  ply,  sound- 
ing like  *  fly/  ekes  this  out) ;  and  are  going  towards 
the  Pole  because  Satan  (from  inside)  is  going  towards 
the  top  of  the  concave  wall  of  Hell.  They  carry  spices, 
like  those  of  Paradise,  because  they  stand  for  paganism 
and  earthly  glory,  for  all  that  Milton  had  retained  contact 
with  after  renouncing  and  could  pile  up  into  the  appeal 
of  Satan ;  Satan  is  like  a  merchant  because  Eve  is  to 
exchange  these  goods  for  her  innocence;  and  like  a 
fleet  rather  than  one  ship  because  of  the  imaginative 
wealth  of  polytheism  and  the  variety  of  the  world. 
(It  fits  in  with  Satan  as  a  symbol,  not  as  a  character.) 

iv.  977.    While  thus  he  spake,  th*  Angelic  Squadron  bright 
Turnd  fierie  red,  sharpning  in  mooned  homes 
Thir  Phalanx,  and  begann  to  hemm  him  round 
With  ported  Spears,  as  thick  as  when  a  field 
Of  Ceres  ripe  for  harvest  waving  bends 
Her  bearded  Grove  of  ears,  which  way  the  wind 
Swayes  them  ;  the  careful  Plowman  doubting  stands 
Least  on  the  threshing  floore  his  hopefull  sheaves 
Prove  chaff.     On  th'  other  side  Satan  allarm'd 
Collecting  all  his  might  dilated  stood, 
Like  Tenerijfe  or  Atlas  unremov'd  : 

Bentley  omits  the  ploughman  sentence. 

The  Editor  deserts  the  notion,  and  from  a  salutary  Gale  of  Wind 
...  he  passes  to  a  Tempest,  and  frightens  the  Husbandman  with 

171 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  loss  of  all  his  Grain.  What  an  Injury  is  this  to  the  Prior 
Comparison?  What  are  Sheaves  bound  up  in  a  Barn  to  the 
Phalanx,  that  hem'd  Satan  ? 

It  certainly  makes  the  angels  look  weak.  If  God  the 
sower  is  the  ploughman,  then  he  is  anxious;  another 
hint  that  he  is  not  omnipotent.  If  the  labouring  Satan 
is  the  ploughman  he  is  only  anxious  for  a  moment,  and 
he  is  the  natural  ruler  or  owner  of  the  good  angels. 
The  main  effect  is  less  logical;  the  homely  idea  is  put 
before  the  description  of  Satan  to  make  him  grander  by 
contrast,  an  effect  denied  to  the  other  angels. 

Besides,  to  suppose  a  Storm  in  the  Fields  of  Corn,  implies  that 
the  Angels  were  in  a  ruffle  and  hurry  about  Satan,  not  in  regular 
and  military  Order. 

More  than  that ;  first  the  angels  lean  forward,  calm  and 
eager,  in  rows,  seeming  strong ;  then  as  the  description 
approaches  Satan,  who  is  stronger,  they  arc  in  a  ruffle 
and  hurry. 

People  are  by  now  agreed  that  Milton  partly  identified 
Satan  with  part  of  his  own  mind,  and  that  the  result 
though  excellent  was  a  little  unintentional.  But  to 
say  this  is  to  agree  with  many  of  Bentley's  points ;  you 
can  hardly  blame  him  for  not  admiring  what  nobody 
in  his  time  was  prepared  to  defend ;  certainly  you  cannot 
blame  his  methods,  as  apart  from  his  tone,  for  they  were 
surprisingly  successful. 

A  whole  series  of  a  particular  sort  of  ornamental 
comparison,  that  which  relates  a  detail  of  the  Biblical 
myth  to  one  of  a  classical  myth,  is  used  to  convey  very 
complex  feelings  about  Paradise  and  also  for  the  vili- 
fication of  Eve.  Bcntlcy  is  sharp  at  picking  out  these 
implications,  but  I  dunk  one  can  carry  it  further  than 
he  docs. 

172 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

iv.  268.  Not  that  fairc  field 

Of  Etme,  where  Proserpin  gathring  flours 
Herself  a  fairer  Floure  by  gloomie  Dis 
Was  gatherd,  which  cost  Ceres  all  that  pain 
To  seek  her  through  the  world ;  nor  that  sweet  Grove 
Of  Daphne  by  Orontes,  and  the  inspir'd 
Castalian  Spring  might  with  this  Paradise 
Of  Eden  strive ;  nor  that  Nyseian  He 
Girt  with  the  River  Triton,  where  old  Cham, 
Whom  Gentiles  Amnion  call  and  Libyan  Jove, 
Hid  Amahhea  and  her  Florid  Son 
Young  Bacchus  from  his  Stepdame  Rheas  eye ; 
Nor  where  Abassin  Kings  thir  issue  Guard, 
Mount  Amara,  though  this  by  som  suppos'd 
True  Paradise  under  the  Ethiop  Line 
By  Nilus  head,  enclos'd  with  shining  Rock, 
A  whole  dayes  journey  high,  but  wide  remote 
From  this  Assyrian  Garden,  where  the  Fiend 
Saw  undelightcd  all  delight  .  .  . 

. .  .  with  a  silly  thought  in  the  middle,  and  as  sillily  conducted 
in  its  several  parts.  Not  Enna,  says  he,  not  Daphne,  nor  Fons 
Castalus,  nor  Nysa,  nor  Mount  Amara,  could  compare  with  Paradise, 
Why,  sir,  who  would  have  suspected  that  they  could;  though 
you  had  never  told  us  of  it  ? 

A  man  who  had  given  his  life  to  the  classics  might  easily 
have  suspected  it ;  it  is  to  Milton  that  the  pagan  beauty 
of  these  gardens  has  appealed  more  richly  than  the  per- 
fection of  the  garden  of  God.  But  I  want  here  to  play 
Bendey's  trick  and  bring  out  the  implications  against  Eve. 
Proserpina,  like  Eve,  was  captured  by  the  king  of 
Hell,  but  she  then  became  queen  of  it,  became  Sin,  then, 
on  Milton's  scheme ;  Eve,  we  are  to  remember,  becomes 
an  ally  of  Satan  when  she  tempts  Adam  to  cat  with  her. 
Daphne  was  not  seduced  by  Apollo  as  Eve  was  by 
Satan  (both  affairs  involve  desire,  a  devil,  and  a  tree) ; 
Eve  might  really  have  done  better  than  a  mere  pagan 

173 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

nymph;  one  must  class  her  with  the  consenting 
Amalthca.  And  all  the  references  to  guarding  children 
remind  us  that  children  were  the  result  of  the  fall. 

In  the  third  comparison  Milton  takes  an  unusual 
version  of  the  myth,  on  the  authority  (the  sole  authority, 
according  to  Masson)  of  Diodorus  Siculus,  who  says 
that  he  got  it  from  Dionysius,  and  that  Dionysius  got 
it  from  a  tutor  of  Hercules.  He  follows  diat  version 
of  the  story,  out  of  his  list  of  versions,  with  a  very  fine 
description  of  the  gardens  of  the  Nyseian  isle,  but  I 
think  one  can  give  a  more  interesting  reason  why  Milton 
adopted  Bacchus  in  such  a  way  as  to  make  us  confuse 
him  with  Jupiter.  He  wanted  a  mixed  notion  for 
demigod  of  the  glory  and  fertility  of  the  earth,  because 
of  his  pagan  feelings  about  Paradise,  and  yet  for  a 
sky-god,  because  Adam  in  spite  of  this  stood  for  celestial 
virtue.  And  die  fourth  garden  was  like  Eden  because 
the  issue  of  the  Abassin  kings  were  kept  secluded  there 
like  Adam  and  Eve,  but  the  appeal  of  the  lines  is  to  an 
idea  opposite  to  that  of  seclusion.  They  fling  into  the 
scale  against  Paradise,  only  still  to  be  outweighed,  what 
many  beside  Milton  would  have  thought  worthy  to  be 
put  to  such  a  use;  the  Elizabethan  excitement  about 
distant  travel  and  trading,  about  the  discovery  of  luxury 
and  the  sources  of  the  Nile. 
Another  odd  case  of  Eve-baiting  forms  a  disputed  passage. 

ix.  503.  Pleasing  was  his  shape, 

And  lovely,  never  since  of  Serpent  kind 
Lovelier,  not  those  that  in  Illyria  chang'd. 
Hermione  and  Cadmus,  or  the  God 
In  Epidaurus  ;  nor  to  which  transform'd 
Ammonian  Jove,  or  Capitoline  was  seen, 
Hee  with  Olympias,  this  with  her  who  bore 
Scipio  the  highth  of  Rome. 

174 


MILTON  AND  BENTIEY 

Satan  is  as  beautiful  as  his  creator  can  make  him; 
you  are  not  to  think  there  is  anything  low  about  him 
even  in  disguise.  Probably  he  made  a  very  fine  toad. 
But  it  is  remarkable,  surely,  that  the  first  comparison, 
as  always  interpreted,  implies  that  Eve  turned  into  a 
snake  and  became  Satan's  consort,  just  as  the  other 
devils  turn  into  snakes  after  the  fall.  Those,  indeed, 
may  be  not  the  couple  named  but  some  serpent  gods; 
Ovid  gives  the  cause  (revenge  for  a  killed  snake)  but 
no  causers  of  the  metamorphosis  (from  the  Bacchae 
they  might  be  the  snakes  of  Bacchus) ;  and  this  would 
give  changed  its  normal  sense.  Even  so  the  last  two 
comparisons  treat  the  Fall  as  a  sexual  act  after  which 
Eve  produced  children  by  Satan,  as  in  the  Talmud, 
which  makes  her  a  regular  seventeenth-century  witch. 
And  again,  after  the  devils  have  been  turned  into  serpents 
(an  incident  which  seems  to  have  been  invented  by 
Milton  to  drive  these  suggestions  home)  we  hear  that  they 

x.  580.  fabled  how  the  Serpent,  whom  they  call'd 

Ophion  with  Eurynome,  the  wide- 
Encroaching  Eve  perhaps,  had  first  the  rule 
Of  high  Olympus,  thence  by  Saturn  driven 
And  Ops,  ere  yet  Dictaean  Jove  was  born. 

*  Ophion  the  Serpent  is  Eve's  Husband,  and  so  all  Man- 
kind are  descended  from  Satan,'  remarks  Bentley,  and  no 
less  reasonably  *  Where  did  she  encroch,  unless  to  bear 
children  is  wide  encroching  ? '  Pcarce's  only  sensible 
reply  is  that  in  any  case  it  was  the  spiteful  invention  of 
devils.  But  it  was  Milton  who  did  the  inventing.  Pearce 
indeed  catches  the  infection  at  one  point  and  uses  this  trick 
to  defend  the  text. 

Soon  had  his  crew 

Op'nd  into  the  Hill  a  spacious  wound 

And  dig'd  out,  ribs  of  Gold. 

175 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Bcntlcy  wanted  to  read  *  seeds  of  gold,'  but  the  words 
here,  said  Pearce,  *  allude  to  the  formation  of  Eve  in 
vui.  463.'  I  call  this  a  profound  piece  of  criticism; 
'  let  none  admire ;  that  soil  may  best  Deserve  the 
precious  bane.'  It  is  not  specially  unkind  to  Eve;  to 
connect  her  with  the  architecture  of  Pandemonium 
makes  her  stand  for  the  pride  and  loyalty  that  won 
grandeur  even  from  the  fall.  The  following  passage 
goes  so  far  as  to  suggest  that  it  was  she  who  tempted 
Satan  and  turned  him  into  a  serpent.  She  was  not 
afraid  of  him  when  she  saw  lum  in  Eden,  because  she  was 

ix.  519.  ...  us'd 

To  such  disport  before  her  through  the  Field, 
From  every  Beast,  more  duteous  at  her  call, 
Than  at  Circean  call  the  Herd  disguis'd. 

Samson,  too,  calls  Delilah  a  sorceress;  no  doubt  he 
would  have  added  Circe  if  he  had  heard  of  her. 

Even  the  following  comparison,  as  from  the  ranging 
and  pouncing  imagination  of  Dante,  shows  the  same 
idea  at  the  back  of  his  mind.  The  devils  when  turned 
to  serpents  saw  a  multitude  of  trees  laden  with  fruit ; 

x.  556.  Parent  with  scalding  thurst  and  hunger  fierce, 

Though  to  delude  them  sent,  could  not  abstain, 
But  on  they  rould  in  heaps,  and  up  the  Trees 
Climbing,  sat  thicker  than  the  snakie  locks 
That  curld  Megaera :  greedily  they  pluck'd 
The  Frutage  fair  to  sight,  like  that  which  grew 
Neer  that  bituminous  Lake  where  Sodom  flamed. 

Eve  too,  in  iv.  307,  has  curled  hair,  modest  but '  requir- 
ing,' that  clutches  at  Adam  like  the  tendrils  of  a  vine. 
Eve  now  then  is  herself  the  forbidden  tree ;  the  whole 
face  of  Hell  has  become  identical  with  her  face ;    it  is 

176 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

filled,  as  by  the  mockery  of  the  temptress,  with  her  hair 
that  entangled  him ;  all  the  beauty  of  nature,  through 
her,  is  a  covering,  like  hers,  for  moral  deformity.  But 
at  least  now  we  have  exposed  her;  her  hair  is  corpse 
worms ;  she  is  the  bitter  apple  of  her  own  crime,  kind 
as  the  Eumenides.  It  is  a  relief  to  find  Bentley  snorting 
at  the  editor  who  *  unjudiciously  diverts  us  from 
the  Scene  in  View,  to  the  snaky  curls  of  a  fictitious 
Fury.* 

That  Eve  was  Delilah,  the  more  specious  for  her 
innocence,  is  only  one  end  of  Milton's  feeling  about  her ; 
in  many  of  these  examples  the  broad  melancholy  from 
the  clash  of  paganism  with  Paradise  is  more  striking 
than  the  snarl  at  Eve.  But  the  Doctor  thought  no  better 
of  them  for  that;  the  snarls  were  only  stupid,  the 
melancholy  was  infidel;  Milton's  use  of  the  pagan 
seemed  to  him  to  imply  a  doubt  of  the  Christian  myth- 
ology ;  and  for  myself  I  think,  not  only  that  he  was 
right,  but  that  the  reverberations  of  tins  doubt  are  the 
real  subject  of  the  descriptions  of  the  Garden.  *  The 
description  of  Heaven/  says  an  anonymous  answerer  to 
Bentley,  *  is  a  beautiful  Parody  of  several  Descriptions 
in  the  Heathen  Poets  of  the  Elysian  Fields,'  and  parody 
seems  an  interesting  term  in  this  connection.  These 
descriptions  have  formed  our  main  subsequent  poetical 
tradition  of  Nature — the  Ode  to  Evening  is  a  cento 
from  Milton ;  Cowpcr's  need  for  him  is  typified  by  the 
way  The  Sofa  uses  a  parody  of  Miltonic  blank  verse  as 
a  starting-handle;  Wordsworth's  beliefs  about  Nature 
were  at  least  in  some  degree  a  discovery  of  the  ideas 
inherent  in  the  style  he  learned  from  Milton  to  describe 
her — so  that  this  point  of  literary  tact  merits  some 
inquiry. 

M  I77 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Bentley  is  very  suspicious  of  the  editor's  irreligion, 
and  finds  evidence  of  it  continually. 

a  creature  who,  not  prone 
And  brute  as  other  creatures,  but  endued 
With  sanctity  of  reason,  might  erect 
His  stature,  and  upright  with  front  serene 
Govern  the  rest,  self-knowing. 

'  As  if  his  Erection  were  superadded  to  his  Form  by  his 
own  Contrivance ;  not  originally  made  so  by  his  Creator. 
I  remember  this  senseless  Notion  spred  about,  that  Man 
at  first  was  a  Quadruped,,  with  a  Kentish  Tail/  (Kentish 
men  were  given  tails  by  Thomas  a  Becket.)  Coleridge 
makes  a  similar  complaint  about  the  Essay  on  Man ; 
one  does  not  easily  realise  that  a  sense  of  danger  from  this 
quarter  has  been  in  the  air  for  so  long.  It  is  only  very 
faindy  hinted  by  Milton,  if  at  all,  but  the  hint  was 
readily  picked  up. 

The  other  examples  are  all  classical  comparisons.  The 
angels  sing  to  God,  at  the  return  of  Christ  from  the 
Creation,  that  he  is 

greater  now  in  thy  return 
Than  from  the  Giant  Angels. 

This  must  be  altered ;  it  is  an  indiscreet  hint  at  the  Titans. 
(It  seems  anyway  to  show  that  the  good  angels  admitted 
the  bad  ones  to  be  greatly  superior.)  On  the  occasion 
to  which  they  refer  he  pursued  the  bad  angels 

With  terrors  and  with  furies  to  the  bounds 
And  Chrystall  wall  of  Hcav'n 

*  This  must  not  pass  by  any  means.  We  cannot  allow 
Furies  in  Heaven;  especially  in.  the  Messiah's  party.' 
Pearce  agrees  but  finds  furies  in  Vergil  who  are  only 

178 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

4  inward  frights.'  The  following  queer  smack  at  Eve 
is  a  more  serious  piece  of  comparative  mythology. 

the  genial  Angel  to  our  Sire 
Brought  her  in  naked  beauty  more  adorn'd 
More  lovely  than  Pandora,  whom  the  Gods 
Endowd  with  all  thir  gifts,  and  O  too  like 
In  sad  event,  when  to  the  unwiscr  son 
Of  Japhct  brought  by  Hermes,  she  ensnar'd 
Mankind  with  her  fair  looks,  to  be  aveng'd 
On  him  who  had  stole  Jove's  authentic  fire. 

Not  only  was  Eve  not  trying  to  avenge  Satan  but  Pandora 
was  not  trying  to  avenge  Prometheus ;  *  to  be  revenged 
on  Prometheus — that  must  be  Pandora's  revenge,  and 
yet  she  had  no  Thought  or  Hand  in  it.'  Iapctus  is  spelt 
Japhet,  and  Epimethcus  might  well  be  remembered 
as  the  first  man  if  he  lived  in  the  first  generation  after 
the  Flood ;  there  is  a  neat  piece  of  dovetailing  in  the 
manner  of  Ralegh's  history.  Yet  Ralegh  is  a  fearful 
name  in  this  connection ;  Marlowe  himself  was  among 
the  wild  gang  of  comparative  anthropologists  he  collected 
round  him  in  his  great  days. 

Adam  and  Eve  pray  together  after  the  fall;   humbly 
enough, 

yet  thir  port 
Not  of  mean  suitors,  nor  important  less 
Seem'd  thir  Petition,  then  when  th'  ancient  Pair 
In  Fables  old,  less  ancient  yet  then  these, 
Deucalion  and  chaste  Pyrrha  to  restore 
The  race  of  Mankind  drowned,  before  the  Shrine 

Of  Themis  stood  devout. 

i 

But  was  the  Man  bewKch'd,  with  his  Old  Fables,  but  not  as  old 
as  these t  Is  Adam  and  Eves  History  an  Old  Fable  too,  by  this 
Editor's  own  Insinuation  ? 

Pearce  makes  a  case  for  a  grammatical  licence,  but 

179 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

it  seems  clear  that  they  were  right  to  be  surprised; 
Milton  intends  no  unorthodoxy,  but  feels  the  poetic 
or  symbolical  meaning  of  the  stories  to  be  more 
important  than  their  truth.  The  effect  is  that  he  com- 
pares Christian  and  pagan  views  of  life  as  equally  solid 
and  possible. 

The  pamphlets  on  divorce  continually  attack,  as  an 
obvious  absurdity,  the  idea  that  the  result  of  the  mercy 
of  Christ  has  been  to  lay  heavier  burdens  upon  the  world ; 
if  the  mercy  of  Moses  would  let  him  divorce  Mary 
Powell  how  should  the  harshness  of  Jesus  forbid  him  ? 
But  though  he  could  use  this  as  a  weapon  and  no  doubt 
a  belief  the  paradox  he  satirises  is  at  the  back  of  all  his 
best  poetry.  There  is  a  similar  puzzle  about  the  gain  of 
knowledge  through  the  fall.  Mr.  Basil  Willey  has  said 
that  Milton,  believing  knowledge  to  be  good  and  by 
right  free,  can  see  no  reason  why  it  was  withheld  or 
disaster  in  gaining  it ;  he  can  only  treat  the  sin  of  Eve 
as  sensual  disobedience.  That  it  is  not  sensual  by  normal 
standards  follows,  I  think,  even  from  the  lines  he  quotes 
to  prove  the  opposite : 

Reason  in  man  obscured  or  not  obeyed 
Immediately  inordinate  desires 
And  upstart  passions  catch  the  Government 
From  Reason. 

Sensuality  here  is  only  an  effect,  as  it  is  in  the  story; 
before  the  fall  it  would  have  no  means  of  attacking 
so  perfect  a  creature.  Milton  protests  overmuch  that 
dierc  was  no  danger  of  sensuality  at  all  among  the 
pleasures  of  Eden.  The  Fall  is  due  to  carelessness, 
letting  Reason  slip  for  a  moment,  not  living  quite  for 
ever  as  in  the  great  Taskmaster's  eye.  It  is  odd  to  con- 
sider that  the  myth  was  probably  invented  to  make  the 

180 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

frightening  and  abstract  question  seem  homely  and 
understandable;  Milton  uses  it  to  give  every  action  a 
nightmare  importance,  to  hold  every  instant  before  the 
searchlight  of  the  conscious  will.  It  is  a  terrific  fancy, 
the  Western  temper  at  its  height;  the  insane  dispro- 
portion of  the  act  to  its  effects  implies  a  va$t  zest  for  heroic 
action.  But  it  is  too  strange  and  too  arid  to  be  more  than 
the  official  theme  of  such  a  poem ;  the  fascination  of  the 
thing  for  Milton  is  that  his  feelings  continually  cry  out 
against  his  theory  in  favour  of  the  Biblical  implications, 
that  true  knowledge  was  cruel,  that  sensuality  then 
first  became  wicked.  And  the  effect  of  the  classical 
comparisons  is  to  bring  out  a  similar  idea,  one  at  the  back 
of  all  his  poetry  except  perhaps  the  final  Samson,  that 
the  knowledge  of  Christianity  was  cruel  because  it 
destroyed  paganism ;  '  on  the  morning  of  Christ's 
nativity '  even  moderately  pagan  beauty,  flowers,  fairies, 
pastoral,  the  Elizabethan  lyric  must  be  abandoned,  and 
even  those  stars  must  fade. 

The  lonely  mountains  o'er 
And  the  resounding  shore 

A  voice  of  weeping  heard  and  loud  lament ; 
From  haunted  spring  and  dale, 
Edged  with  poplar  pale 

The  parting  Genius  is  with  sighing  sent, 
With  flowrc-inwoven  tresses  tome, 
The  Nimphs  in  twilight  shade  of  tangled  thickets  mourn. 

The  whole  weight  of  this  feeling  is  behind  all  the  descrip- 
tions of  Eden.  ■ 

Milton's  language  about  stars  contains  two  puzzles 
about  them  beside  the  idea  that  our  morning  is  their 
evening,  and  Bentley  again  puts  one  on  the  track  of 
the  ideas  at  work. 

181 


SOME.  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

The  Stars  with  deep  amaze 
Stand  fixt  in  steadfast  gaze, 

Bending  one  way  their  prerious  influence, 
And  will  not  take  their  flight, 
For  all  the  morning  light, 

Or  Lucifer  that  often  warned  them  thence ; 
But  in  their  glimmering  orbs  did  glow, 
Until  their  Lord  himself  bespake,  and  bid  them  go. 

Lucifer,  though  Satan,  cannot  lead  them  away;  their 
influence  may  even  have  caused  the  appearance  of  Christ, 
but  his  order  must  destroy  them.  Cynthia  too,  in  the 
next  verse,  feels  that  the  music  at  Christ's  birth  means 
that  *  her  part  was  don  ' ;  Elizabeth  and  her  age  counted 
as  another  paganism.  There  is  an  odd  doubt  about  the 
time  at  the  end  of  the  poem. 

But  sec  the  Virgin  blest, 
Hath  laid  her  Babe  to  rest, 

Time  is  our  tedious  song  should  here  have  ending, 
Heav'ns  youngest  teemed  Star 
Hath  fixed  her  polisht  Car, 

Her  sleeping  Lord  with  Handmaid  Lamp  attending : 
And  all  about  the  Courtly  Stable 
Bright-harnest  Angels  sit  in  order  serviceable. 

It  all  suggests  nightfall ;  the  ending  of  labour,  and  a  lamp 
coming  to  guard  a  sleeper,  now  laid  to  rest.  The  angels 
are  clearly  compared  to  stars,  and  show  no  signs  of  going. 
But  it  is  still  the  morning — the  new  star  appears  and  leads 
up  the  wise  men  as  the  poem  ends.  When  Milton 
thinks  of  it  as  evening  he  takes  the  point  of  view  of  the 
stars.  It  is  clear  that  the  stars  here  stand  for  something 
very  good;  it  was  no  poor  thing  that  the  knowledge 
of  Christ  destroyed. 

Christ  here  counts  as  the  sun,  but  in  Paradise  Regained 
(i.  294)  he  becomes  Our  Morning  Star,  who  is  Lucifer, 

182 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

who  is  Satan;  the  doubt  about  the  symbolism  fits 
Milton's  secret  parallel  between  the  two.  An  odd 
little  emendation  in  the  second  edition  seems  to  be 
explained  by  this.    The  sun  lights  up  the  planets : 

Hither  as  to  their  Fountain  other  Starrs 
Repairing,  in  thir  gold'n  Urns  draw  Light, 
And  hence  the  Morning  Planet  gilds  his  horns. 

The  correction  puts  her  for  his ;  Venus  for  Christ-Satan. 
Satan  has  not  arrived  on  the  world,  so  Nature  may 
suggest  paganism  but  not  the  fall.  There  is  a  shade  of 
doubt  about  this  star  even  in  the  prayer  of  Adam : 

Fairest  star  of  night 
If  better  thou  belong  not  to  the  dawn. 

It  may  belong  to  Christ  or  Satan,  and  Satan  may 
owe  to  the  irony  of  God  what  is  still  left  him  of  his 
splendour. 

Thirdly,  the  stars  involve  the  doubts  suggested  by 
Copernican  astronomy. 

About  him  all  the  Sanctities  of  Heaven 

Stood  thick  as  Starrs,  and  from  his  sight  received 

Beatitude  past  utterance. 

The  sun  is  fixed  and  the  stars  move  round  him ;  so  long 
as  you  think  only  of  the  planets  the  new  theory  gives  a 
pleasanter  metaphor  than  the  old  one.  But  the  fixed 
stars  (viii.  148,  though  timidly,  and  cf.  iii.  577)  may 
themselves  be  suns ;  only  the  small  angels  move  round 
God ;  to  those  who  find  stars  to  be  suns  .reason  may 
equal  God  and  Satan,  Milton  and  Christ.  Donne  is 
always  using  the  new  astronomy  to  suggest  the  independ- 
ence of  the  individual,  and  the  metaphor  here  implies 
the  whole  case  for  Satan. 

183 


iff.* 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

The  description  of  his  revolt  is  a  sustained  astronomical 
metaphor.    He  plans  his  revolt 

Now  ere  dim  Night  had  disencumbered  Hcav*n 

and  leads  off  before  morning 

an  host 
Innumerable  as  the  stars  of  night, 
Or  stars  of  morning,  dewdrops  which  the  sun 
Impearls  on  every  leaf  and  every  flower. 

His  count'nance,  as  the  Morning  Star  that  guides 
The  starrie  flock,  allur'd  them,  and  with  lyes 
Drew  after  him  the  third  part  of  Heav'ns  Host. 

His  angels  are  called  Sons  of  Morn,  rather  as  Ezekiel 
(ii.  i)  was  a  Son  of  Man  as  well  as  Christ. 

Meanwhile  th'  Eternal  Eye,  whose  sight  discernes 
Abstrusest  thoughts,  from  forth  his  holy  Mount 
And  from  within  the  golden  Lamps  that  burne 
Nightly  before  him,  saw  without  thir  light 
Rebellion  rising,  saw  in  whom,  how  spread 
Among  the  sons  of  Morn. 

He  then,  *  smiling/  confesses  his  anxiety.  The  picture 
here  takes  the  lamps  round  him  as  the  planets ;  it  is  the 
fixed  stars  beyond  them,  very  possibly  as  big  as  the  sun, 
who  are  the  revolted  angels  of  the  Morning.  The 
Morning  Star  itself  of  course  is  a  planet,  but  Milton  is 
still  keeping  to  his  view  that  the  Morning  Stars  are  not 
planets  when  he  comes  to  their  *  singing  together  '  at 
the  Creation. 

The  Heav'ns  and  all  the  Constellations  rung, 
The  Planets  in  their  stations  listening  stood, 
While  the  bright  Pomp  ascended  jubilant. 

184 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

Bcntley  complained  about  the  leadership  of  Satan 
that  the  Morning  Star  disappears  last  of  the  stars  in  the 
morning,  so  cannot  be  said  to  lead  them ;  Pearce  smartly 
replied  that  a  shepherd  walks  at  the  back.  But  the 
words  are  drew  after  him,  and  die  inversion  acts  as  part 
of  the  conflict  of  feeling ;  he  leads  them  only  towards 
night.  Pearce  makes  a  more  valuable  suggestion  in 
saying  that  the  Morning  Star  and  Evening  Star  are  the 
same :  *  he  puts  Hesperus  as  Evening  Star ;  it  guides 
them  and  comes  foremost/  It  is  as  Hesperus,  that  led 
The  Starry  host,  in  the  most  beautiful  of  that  avenue  of 
descriptions  that  lead  to  the  nuptial  bed  of  Eden,  that 
he  is  at  the  head  of  his  angels  in  their  attack  upon 
the  world.     I  must  now  try  to  decide  what  happens 

there. 

To  Pales,  or  Pomona,  thus  adornd, 
Likest  she  seemed,  Pomona  when  she  fled 
Vertumnus,  or  to  Ceres  in  her  Prime, 
Yet  Virgin  of  Proserpina  from  Jove. 

Why  was  she  virgin,  and  from  whom  was  she  flying, 
Bentley  would  like  to  know ;  and  as  for  prime :  *  What  ? 
have  Goddesses  the  decays  of  Old  Age  ? '  Pearce  makes 
a  good  case  for  the  facade  of  the  comparison,  but  the 
questions  deserve  an  answer  that  admits  their  importance. 
Ceres  will  decay  like  the  other  pagan  gods  when  Chris- 
tianity comes ;  the  fall  from  paganism  is  like  the  fall 
from  paradise.  Eve  has  insisted  on  going  off  alone  with 
her  gardening  tools  to  the  Temptation;  she  is  flying 
from  the  society  of  Adam  and  will  not  fly  (it  is  a  reproach 
against  her)  from  Vertumnus,  the  god  of  autumn,  of 
the  Fall ;  the  very  richness  of  the  garden  makes  it  heavy 
with  autumn.  Ceres  when  virgin  of  die  queen  of  Hell 
was  already  in  her  full  fruitfulness  upon  the  world  ;  Eve  is 

185 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

virgin  of  sin  from  Satan  and  of  Cain,  who  in  the  Talmud 
was  his  child.  Walking  in  '  virgin  majesty '  though 
not  *  ignorant  of  nuptial  rites '  she  seems  at  once  strong 
because  on  Milton's  theory  freedom  does  not  expose 
her  to  sensuality  (so  Elizabeth  might  appear,  goddess  of 
a  paganism  now  extinguished),  hence  the  more  danger- 
ously entitled  to  the  forbidden  knowledge,  and  weak 
because  ignorant  of  it— she  does  not  know  what  is  at 
stake,  and  will  fall  through  triviality.  It  seems  to  be 
ignorance  that  puts  her  into  the  ideal  state  that  is  fitted 
to  receive  all  knowledge.  Her  lack  of  shame  is  felt  as 
a  pathetic  degree  of  virginity,  and  yet  it  places  her  with 
the  satyrs  outside  the  Christian  world.  She  and  her 
husband  seem  great  people  socially— ambassadors  of 
mankind— and  yet  savages  in  a  low  stage  of  develop- 
ment. And  though  she  resolves  all  these  opposites, 
which  proves  that  she  is  in  a  state  of  perfection,  the 
term  suggests  that  there  is  still  something  lacking  for  a 
full  human  life.  If  Milton  had  been  in  the  Garden,  it 
has  been  brightly  said,  he  would  have  eaten  the  apple 
at  once  and  written  a  pamphlet  to  prove  that  that  was 
his  duty.  Another  view  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Fall  is,  I 
think,  somewhere  in  his  mind ;  that  the  human  creature 
is  essentially  out  of  place  in  the  world  and  needed  no 
fall  in  time  to  make  him  so. 

This  very  complete  ambivalence  of  feeling  is  then 
thrown  out  and  attached  to  Nature  in  the  garden. 

Thus  was  this  place 
A  happy  rural  seat  of  various  view  : 

Groves  whose  rich  Trees  wept  odorous  Gumms  and  Balme, 
Others  whose  fruit  burnished  with  Golden  Rinde 
Hung  amiable,  Hesperian  fables  true, 
If  true,  here  only,  and  of  delicious  taste. 

186 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

Bentley  emends  fables  to  *  apples,'  which  makes  the  idea 
more  obvious.  The  whole  beauty  of  the  thing  is  a  rich 
nostalgia,  but  not  simply  for  a  lost  Eden;  sorrow  is 
inherent  in  Eden  itself,  as  Johnson  found  it  in  L*  Allegro, 
and  that  the  trees  are  weeping  seems  to  follow  directly 
from  the  happiness  of  the  rural  seat.  The  trees  that 
glitter  with  unheeding  beauty  and  the  trees  that  weep 
with  prescience  are  alike  associated  with  the  tree  of 
knowledge;  the  same  Nature  produced  the  balm  of 
healing  and  the  fatal  fruit;  they  cannot  convey  to 
Adam  either  its  knowledge  or  the  knowledge  that  it  is 
to  be  avoided,  and  by  their  own  nature  foretell  the 
necessity  of  the  Fall.  The  melancholy  of  our  feeling 
that  Eden  must  be  lost  so  soon,  once  attached  to  its 
vegetation,  makes  us  feel  that  it  is  inherently  melancholy. 
These  are  the  same  puzzles  about  the  knowledge, 
freedom,  happiness,  and  strength  of  the  state  of  innocence, 
but  applied  to  the  original  innocence  of  Nature. 

There  are  three  main  ideas  about  Nature,  putting  her 
above,  equal  to,  and  below  man.  She  is  the  work  of 
God,  or  a  god  herself,  and  therefore  a  source  of  revela- 
tion ;  or  she  fits  man,  sympathises  with  him,  corresponds 
to  his  social  order,  has  magical  connections  with  him 
and  so  forth;  or  she  is  not  morally  responsible  so  that 
to  contemplate  her  is  a  source  of  relief  (tins  last  is 
Cowpcr's  main  business  with  her,  for  example).  One 
reason  for  the  force  of  Milton's  descriptions  of  Eden 
is  that  these  contradictory  ideas  can  be  made  there  to 
work  together.  The  apple  is  a  fearful  source  of  revela- 
tion. That  Nature  was  magically  altered  by  the  fall 
was  part  of  the  tradition  that  Milton  accepted,  so  we 
willingly  allow  her  to  foresee  it  and  groan  as  it  occurs. 
To  be  able  to   use   the   supernatural   machinery   of  a 

187 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Heroic  Poem  in  this  way  was  in  itself  a  sort  of  com- 
parison with  pagan  ideas.  And  if  she  is  viewed  as 
free  from  moral  responsibility,  so,  at  one  end  of 
Milton's  feeling,  are  the  sanctified  pagans  to  whom  she 
is  fitted. 

Wordsworth  seems  to  have  two  main  ways  of  sym- 
bolising Nature,  which  correspond  roughly  to  father 
and  mother.  The  mountains  of  Westmoreland  arc 
symbols  of  morality,  the  proper  and  therefore  natural 
way  of  life,  the  permanent  tradition  of  the  country, 
not  what  the  French  were  doing,  and  so  on;  they 
tend  to  be  addressed  as  local  deities,  a  slip  often  corrected 
in  later  editions,  and  behind  them  is  God.  Nature  as  a 
whole  appears  panthcistically  as  the  nurse  of  all  life, 
a  sustaining  rather  than  moral  agent,  and  one  docs  not 
feel  behind  her  a  personal  God  who  will  punish  sin. 
Of  coarse  there  is  no  harm  in  using  both  conceptions, 
but  Wordsworth  seems  to  have  thought  them  more 
at  home  together  than  they  are.  It  seems  possible 
that  one  reason  for  this  is  that  in  Milton's  blank-verse 
nature-poetry  they  really  are  at  home  together ;  before 
the  fall,  nature,  like  man,  is  not  tempted  to  be  wicked, 
and  to  adopt  pantheism  raises  no  moral  problem. 
And  on  the  other  hand,  the  melancholy  of  nature  in 
Eden  makes  her  seem  not  at  all  unlike  nature  elsewhere. 
Nobody  could  say  that  Wordsworth  was  merely  imitating 
Milton,  and  he  was  further  from  him  in  the  first  draft 
of  the  Prelude  than  in  later  orthodox  revisions,  but  still 
the  tradition  of  his  medium  did  not  force  him  to  make 
up  his  mind  on  these  points. 

The  trouble  about  Milton  conceived  as  a  writer  of 
pastoral  is  that  he  keeps  so  great  a  distance  between 
nimsclf  and  the  swain  that  the  more  human  tricks  of 

188 


a 


:'s 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

the  convention  cannot  work;  author  and  hero  seem 
related  as  two  ambassadors,  as  Adam  is  to  Raphael. 
The  social  feelings  that  lay  behind  his  politics  are  allied 
to  this ;  men  ought  to  be  treated  as  if  they  had  not  yet 
fallen,  not  out  of  generosity,  but  as  a  painful  test  of  their 
will,  and  if  they  fall  it  is  no  fault  of  the  lawgiver.  The 
influence  on  Wordsworth  of  this  side  of  Milton  is  fine 
so  long  as  the  shepherds  arc  gaunt  magnified  figures 
striding  through  the  mist,  but  Wordsworth's  descrip- 
tions of  himself  as  doing  poetic  field-work  among 
country  people  who  address  him  as  Sir  make  a  rather 
different  impression.  One  purpose  of  the  Romantics 
was  to  break  the  class  barrier  that  the  Augustans  had 
put  into  literature;  they  felt  that  the  couplet  was  too 
smart  and  high-class ;  surely  the  democrat  Milton,  with 
his  sense  of  the  dignity  of  Man,  would  be  a  help  here. 
This  part  of  the  program  seems  to  have  been  a  complete 
failure;  only  the  Tory  Scott  came  near  a  success  inde- 
pendent of  class ;  and  the  mockery  of  Gay's  Pastorals 
leaves  him  obviously  more  at  home  with  a  labourer 
than  the  love  of  Shelley.  No  doubt  the  feelings  of 
Milton  had  a  real  influence  on  political  theory,  but  the 
*  two  nations '  of  Disraeli  came  to  feel  themselves 
sharply  separate  while  this  attempt  was  being  made. 
Still,  so  long  as  Milton  is  dealing  with  his  first  parents, 
it  is  fair  to  say  that  he  has  a  pastoral  sentiment  about 
them.  Adam's  life  is  so  far  from  ours  that  it  is 
necessary  to  imagine  him  with  dignity  from  a  dis- 
tance, and  Milton  seems  both  to  have  the  double  feeling 
of  pastoral,  that  he  is  both  inferior  and  superior  to 
Adam,  and  to  be  sufficiently  at  home  with  it  to  turn  it 
into  poetry. 

We  first  sec  Paradise  through  the  eyes  of  the  entering 

189 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Satan,  seated  jealously  like  a  cormorant  on  the  Tree  of 
Life.  Like  him  we  are  made  to  feel  aliens  with  a  larger 
purpose ;  our  sense  of  its  pathos  and  perfection  seems, 
as  he  does,  to  look  down  on  it  from  above ;  the  fall  has 
now  happened,  and  we  must  avoid  this  sort  of  thing 
in  our  own  lives.  Like  so  many  characters  in  history 
our  first  parents  may  be  viewed  with  admiration  so 
long  as  they  do  not  impose  on  us  their  system  of  values ; 
it  has  become  safe  to  admit  that  in  spite  of  what  is  now 
known  to  be  the  wickedness  of  such  people  they  had  a 
perfection  which  we  no  longer  deserve.  Without  any 
reason  for  it  in  Milton's  official  view  of  the  story  this 
feeling  is  concentrated  onto  their  sexual  situation,  and 
the  bower  where  Eve  decks  their  nuptial  bed  (let  not 
the  reader  dare  think  there  is  any  loss  of  innocence  in 
its  pleasures)  has  the  most  firmly  *  pagan '  and  I  think 
the  most  beautiful  of  the  comparisons. 

In  shadier  Bower, 
More  sacred  and  sequestered,  though  but  feigned, 
Pan  or  Sylvanus  never  slept,  nor  Nymph 
Nor  Faunus  haunted. 

4  Pan,  Sylvanus,  and  Faunus,  savage  and  beastly  Deities, 
and  acknowledg'd  feign  d,  are  brought  here  in  Com- 
parison, and  their  wild  Grottos  forsooth  are  Sacred.' 
*  These  three  Verses,  after  all  his  objections,  were  cer- 
tainly Milton's,  and  may  be  justified  though  not  perhaps 
admired.' 

Surely  Bentlcy  was  right  to  be  surprised  at  finding 
Faunus  haunting  the  bower,  a  ghost  crying  in  the  cold 
of  Paradise,  and  the  lusts  of  Pan  sacred  even  in  comparison 
to  Eden.  There  is  a  Vergilian  quality  in  the  lines, 
haunting  indeed,  a  pathos  not  mentioned  because  it  is 
the  whole  of  the  story.    I  suppose  that  in  Satan  deter- 

190 


MILTON  AND  BENTLEY 

mining  to  destroy  the  innocent  happiness  of  Eden,  for 
the  highest  political  motives,  without  hatred,  not 
without  tears,  we  may  find  some  echo  of  the  Elizabethan 
fulness  of  life  that  Milton  as  a  poet  abandoned,  and  as  a 
Puritan  helped  to  destroy. 


191 


The  Beggar's  Opera 

Mock-Pastoral  as  the  Cult  of  Independence 


N 


M 


I 

SOME  queer  forces  often  at  work  in  literature  can 
be  seen  there  unusually  clearly;  its  casualness  and 
inclusiveness  allow  it  to  collect  into  it  tilings  that 
had  been  floating  in  tradition.  It  is  both  mock-heroic 
and  mock-pastoral,  but  these  take  Heroic  and  Pastoral 
for  granted;  they  must  be  used  as  conventions  and  . 
so  as  ways  of  feeling  if  they  are  even  to  be  denied. 
It  would  be  as  reasonable  to  say  that  human  nature  is 
exalted  as  that  it  is  debased  by  this  process;  it  makes 
Macheath  seem  like  the  heroes  and  swains  no  less  than 
the  heroes  and  swains  like  Macheath.  If  the  joke  against 
him  is  that  he  is  vain  to  adopt  the  grand  manner  of  the 
genteel  rakes  he  at  least  stands  their  own  final  test; 
he  has  the  courage  to  sustain  it :  *  What  would  you 
have  me  say,  ladies  ?  You  see  this  affair  will  soon  be 
at  an  end,  without  my  disobliging  either  of  you.' 
Indeed  the  audience  did  not  want  to  despise  heroic  and 
pastoral  but  to  enjoy  them  without  feeling  cheated; 
to  turn  them  directly  onto  Marlborough  and  the  con- 
temporary ploughboy  did  make  it  feel  cheated.  The 
main  joke  is  not  against  the  characters  of  the  play  at 
all,  nor  does  any  one  in  the  discussions  about  its  morality 
seem  to  have  taken  it  as  against  the  appalling  penal 
code  and  prison  system;  it  is  against  the  important 
people  who  are  like  the  characters;  the  n"iain  thing  is 
the  political  attack  and  the  principles  behind  it.  But 
pastoral  usually  works  like  that ;  it  describes  the  lives 
of  *  simple '  low  people  to  an  audience  of  refined 
wealthy  people,  so  as  to  make  them  think  first  *  this  is 

195 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

true  about  everyone '  and  then '  this  is  specially  true  about 
us.'  So  far  as  that  goes  the  play  is  Swift's  first  concep- 
tion of  it — the  pastoral  method  applied  to  Newgate. 

There  is  a  natural  connection  between  heroic  and 
pastoral  before  they  are  parodied,  and  this  gives  extra 
force  to  the  comic  mixture.  Both  when  in  their  full 
form  assume  or  preach  what  the  parody  need  not  laugh 
at,  a  proper  or  beautiful  relation  between  rich  and 
poor.  Hence  they  belong  to  the  same  play — they 
are  the  two  stock  halves  of  the  double  plot.  It  is  felt 
that  you  cannot  have  a  proper  hero  without  a  proper 
people,  even  if  the  book  only  gives  him  an  implied  or 
magical  relation  to  it;  one  takes  tins  so  much  for 
granted  in  Sydney's  Arcadia  that  the  eventual  labour 
trouble  over  a  revolt  of  Helots  seems  oddly  out  of  place. 
I  want  first  to  take  a  few  examples  of  the  comic  mixture 
to  show  the  peculiar  sort  of  humour  that  it  can  convey. 

The  most  vivid  expression  in  plot  of  the  sentiment 
that  combines  heroic  and  pastoral  is  the  theme  of  the 
prince  brought  up  in  secret  by  the  peasant  (Winter's 
Tale  and  Cymbeline,  more  or  less).  Dry  den  puts  the 
paradox  of  the  idea  very  neatly  (Marriage  a  la  Mode) : 

Amal.  It  is  not  likely  .  .  . 

that  such  a  youth,  so  sweet,  so  graceful, 
Should  be  produced  from  peasants. 

[Evidently  not ;    he  has  been  arrested   merely  because  he 
looks  like  an  aristocrat.] 
Her.  [the  youth].   Why,  nature  is  the  same  in  villages, 
And  much  more  fit  to  form  a  noble  issue 
Where  it  is  least  corrupted. 

[So  he  is  certainly  a  noble  ;  he  has  the  sentiments  of  pastoral.] 
King.  He  talks  too  like  a  man  that  knew  the  world 
To  have  been  long  a  peasant.    But  the  rack 
Will  teach  him  other  language.    Hence  with  him. 

196 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

The  ideas  are  ripe  for  satire  here.  Fielding's  first  note  to 
Tom  Thumb  has  a  pretty  reflection  on  the  point. 

Corneille  recommends  some  very  remarkable  day  wherein  to 
fix  the  action  of  a  tragedy.  This  the  best  of  our  tragical  writers 
have  understood  to  mean  a  day  remarkable  for  the  serenity  of  the 
sky,  or  what  we  call  a  fine  summer's  day.  So  that  .  .  .  the  same 
months  are  proper  for  tragedy  which  are  proper  for  pastoral. 

Fortunately  in  tins  case  the  weather  permitted  of  the 
combination. 

Grizzle.  Oh !  Huncamunca,  Huncamunca,  oh ! 
Thy  pouting  breasts,  like  kettledrums  of  brass 
Beat  everlasting  loud  alarums  of  joy. 
As  bright  as  brass  they  are,  and  oh  !  as  hard. 
Oh  !  Huncamunca,  Huncamunca,  oh  ! 

The  joke  is  that  heroically  high  people  are  pastorally 
low ;  the  very  beautiful  result  reminds  one  of  D.  H. 
Lawrence  describing  a  *  primitive.' 

Hunca.  Ha !    Dost  thou  know  me,  Princess  as  I  am, 
That  thus  of  me  you  dare  to  make  your  game  i 

Grizzle.  Oh,  Huncamunca,  well  I  know  that  you 
A  princess  are,  and  a  king's  daughter,  too. 
But  love  no  meanness  scorns,  no  grandeur  fears ; 
Love  often  lords  into  the  cellar  bears, 
And  bids  the  sturdy  porter  come  upstairs. 
For  what's  too  hign  for  love,  and  what's  too  low  i 
Oil !  Huncamunca,  Huncamunca,  oh  ! 

Really  heroic  love  is  superior  to  social  convention; 
it  may  be  pastoral  enough  to  produce  bawdy  farce. 
But  the  striking  thing  about  the  result  in  Fielding  is  its 
breadth ;  he  seems  to  leave  room  for  the  ideas  he  laughs 
at ;  there  is  no  private  facctiousness  about  this  dance  on 
the  grave  of  heroic  tragedy. 
Even  the  aristocratic  fool  of  the  Restoration  stage  has 

197 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

a  touch  of  the  combination ;  the  plays  were  for  a  limited 
social  circle,  but  still  clowns  have  a  mock-pastoral 
tradition.  This  object  of  satire,  Dryden  pointed  out, 
is  like  the  national  hero  who  becomes  a  symbol  of 
his  nation ;  he  *  stands  for '  the  group  satirised ;  he 
has  that  hint  of  parliament  which  is  the  dignity  of  the 
theatre. 

None  Sir  Fopling  him,  or  him,  can  call ; 

He's  knight  of  the  shire,  and  represents  you  all. 

One  might  think  that  the  hearty  relation  between 
rich  and  poor  which  allowed  of  tricks  between  heroic 
and  pastoral  belonged  mainly  to  the  Elizabethans,  and 
Gay  surprisingly  refers  us  back  to  them.  The  prologue 
to  the  Opera  explains  that  it  is  a  revival  of  the  marriage 
masques,  for  the  beggar  artists  (aristocrats  no  doubt  in 
their  own  world)  James  Chanter  and  Moll  Lay;  the 
dance  of  prisoners  in  chains  is  a  regular  antimasque. 
Polly  indeed  views  this  dance  simply  as  one  of  the 
charms  of  the  world,  but  all  its  charms  just  then  seem 
4  an  insult  on  my  affliction/  and  the  antimasque  was  a 
sort  of  symbolic  insult. 

For  the  grandest  example  of  the  mixture  one  must  go 
outside  England.  One  cause  of  the  range  of  Don 
Quixote,  the  skyline  beyond  skyline  of  its  irony,  is  that 
though  mock-heroic  it  is  straight  pastoral;  only  at  the 
second  level,  rather  as  the  heroic  becomes  genuine, 
docs  the  pastoral  become  mock.  Most  of  the  story 
(*  oh  basilisk  of  our  mountains ')  might  be  taking  place 
in  Sydney's  Arcadia,  and  as  Quixote  himself  points  out 
(I.  iv.  xxiii. ;  in  favour  of  the  boy  who  was  on  graceful 
terms  with  Ins  goat)  the  two  conventions  are  alike,  so 
that  the  book  puzzles  us  between  them;    we  cannot 

198 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

think  one  fatuous  and  not  the  other.  A  large  fraction 
of  it  ignores  Quixote  while  the  characters  tell  romantic 
tales  that  partake  of  both ;  only  slightly  less  romantic 
tales  are  part  of  the  main  story,  and  some  of  the  ladies 
he  absurdly  fails  to  help  (e.g.  Dorothea,  I.  rv.  ii.)  are 
actually  in  need  of  the  sort  of  help  he  offers.  This 
makes  the  satire  seem  more  important  by  making  his 
heroism  less  unreal,  as  do  the  cautiously  implied  com- 
parisons of  him  to  Christ,  which  make  him  the  fool 
who  becomes  the  judge.  And  a  direct  meeting  between 
the  two  conventions,  as  in  this  beautiful  and  unexpected 
speech  of  the  innkeeper,  always  puts  knight-errantry 
back  on  its  horse. 

I  have  now  in  the  House  two  or  three  Books  of  that  kind, 
which  have  really  kept  me,  and  many  others,  alive.  In  Harvest 
time,  a  great  many  of  the  Reapers  come  to  drink  here  in  the 
Heat  of  the  Day,  and  he  that  can  read  best  among  us  takes  one 
of  these  Books,  and  all  the  Rest  of  us,  sometimes  Thirty  or  more, 
sit  round  him  and  listen  with  such. Pleasure,  that  we  have  neither 
Sorrow  nor  Care. 

Clearly  it  is  important  for  a  nation  with  a  strong  class- 
system  to  have  an  art-form  that  not  merely  evades  but 
breaks  through  it,  that  makes  the  classes  feel  part  of  a 
larger  unity  or  simply  at  home  with  each  other.  This 
may  be  done  in  odd  ways,  and  as  well  by  mockery  as 
admiration.  The  half-conscious  purpose  behind  the 
magical  ideas  of  heroic  and  pastoral  was  being  finely 
secured  by  the  Beggar's  Opera  when  the  mob  roared 
its  applause  both  against  and  with  the  applause  of 
Walpole. 

One  of  the  traditional  ideas  at  die  back  of  the  hero  was 
that  he  was  half  outside  morality,  because  he  must  be 
half  outside  his  tribe  in  order  to  mediate  between  it 

199 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

and  God,  or  it  and  Nature.    (In  the  same  way  the  swain 
of  pastoral  is  half  Man  half  *  natural.'   The  corresponding 
idea  in  religion  is  that  Christ  is  the  scapegoat.)    This  in 
a  queer  way  was  still  alive  in  the  theatre ;  no  perversion 
of  human  feeling  might  not  be  justified  in  the  Restoration 
tragic  hero,  because  he  was  so  ideal,  and  the  Restoration 
comic  hero  was  a  rogue  because  he  was  an  aristocrat. 
The  process  of  fixing  these  forms  into  conventions,  the 
Tragedy  of  Admiration  and  the  comedy  of  the  predatory 
wit,  undertaken  because  the  forms  had  come  to  seem 
unreal,  for  some  reason  brought  out  their  primitive 
ideas  more  sharply.     Now  on  the  one  hand,  this  half- 
magical  view  seemed  to  the  Augustans  wicked  as  well  as 
ridiculous ;  all  men  were  men ;   they  had  just  put  down 
the   witch-burnings;     to    a   rational    pacificism    Marl- 
borough   and    Alexander    were    bullies    glorified    by 
toadies.     On  the  other  hand,  they  were  Tory  poets, 
and   the  heroic  tradition,   always   royalist    (the  king's 
divine  right  made  the  best  magical  symbol),  had  died 
on  their  hands.    The  only  way  to  use  the  heroic  con- 
vention was  to  turn  it  onto  the  mock-hero,  the  rogue, 
the  man  half-justified  by  pastoral,  and  the  only  romance 
to  be  extracted  from  the  Whig  government  was  to  satirise 
it  as  the  rogue.     The  two  contradictory  feelings  were 
satisfied  by  the  same  attitude. 

The  rogue  so  conceived  is  not  merely  an  object  of 
satire ;  he  is  like  the  hero  because  he  is  strong  enough 
to  be  independent  of  society  (in  some  sense),  and  can 
therefore  be  the  critic  of  it.  There  was  a  feeling  that  the 
unity  of  society  had  become  somehow  fishy — Hobbes' 
arguments  in  its  favour,  for  instance,  themselves  products 
of  civil  war,  only  affected  one  the  other  way — and  that 
the  independent  individual — the  monad,  the  gravitating 

200 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

particle — was  now  the  only  real  unit.  Hence  the  '  rogue 
become  judge '  formula,  with  its  obscure  Christian 
connections,  is  used  by  a  long  series  of  writers  for  almost 
any  purpose  in  hand.  That  is  why  the  merchant-pioneer 
Robinson  Crusoe  was  such  a  hero  and  yet  must  apologise 
for  his  life.  The  interest  of  the  Noble  Savage  (Dry den's 
phrase)  was  that  he  was  another  myth  about  the  politically 
and  intellectually  free  man.  Macheath  means  laird  of  the 
open  ground  where  he  robs  people ;  he  is  king  of  the 
Waste  Land.  Dullness  to  Pope  and  Dryden  is  a  goddess, 
so  that  the  theme  of  human  folly  is  not  trivial ;  she  is  a 
hideous  danger  to  civilisation ;  both  she  and  the  hero 
her  representative  can  tell  us  with  authority  who  is 
dull.  Moll  Flanders  in  her  second  robbery  is  tempted 
to  murder  the  child  robbed,  for  greater  safety;  to 
escape  from  a  moment  of  horror  at  herself  she  becomes 
indignant  with  the  child's  parents,  explains  how  it  ought 
to  be  looked  after,  and  hopes  the  robbery  will  teach  them 
to  take  better  care  of  it ;  this  makes  her  touching  and 
competent.  All  Jonathan  Wild's  acts,  according  to 
himself  in  Fielding,  might  be  excused  in  a  hero;  a 
denunciation  of  heroes ;  it  makes  him  intolerable.  Gay 
has  many  uses  for  the  formula;  a  typical  joke,  that 
always  delights  a  modern  audience,  gives  its  applica- 
tion to  marriage,  when  Peachum  says  on  discovering 
the  marriage  of  Polly : 

Married !  the  captain  is  a  bold  man,  and  will  risk  anything 
for  money ;  to  be  sure  he  thinks  her  a  fortune.  Do  you  think 
your  mother  and  I  should  have  lived  comfortably  so  long  to- 
gether if  we  had  been  married  ?    Baggage ! 

The  point  of  this  is  that  it  is  a  defence  of  marriage  by 
one  who  thinks  he  is  attacking  it;    marriage  is  not 

201 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

exalted  (one  can  accept  the  mockery  of  the  comedies), 
but  it  is  more  stable  than  its  laws.  The  rogue  has  only 
to  free  it  from  the  offensive  approval  of  society  to  find 
it  natural. 

It  may  be  said  that  there  is  no  real  cult  of  independ- 
ence in  this,  because  the  irony  admits  that  the  hero  is 
not  really  independent  or  should  not  be  admired  for  it. 
Certainly  the  irony  is  necessary;  later  versions  like  the 
ragglc-taggle-gypsy  business  which  merely  admire  the 
apparently  free  man  obviously  leave  out  part  of  the 
truth.  But  though  one  may  be  puzzled  by  what  the 
Opera  means,  certainly  the  turns  of  phrase  it  uses  are 
pro-independent.  The  irony  may  well  say  that  at  a 
higher  level  the  idea  of  independence  is  all  nonsense ; 
everything  is  one,  all  men  are  dependent  on  society, 
man  can  only  be  happy  through  generosity  and  a  good 
conscience,  or  what  not.  But  this  does  not  annul  the 
feeling  for  independence  because  one  is  made  to  feel 
that  at  so  high  a  level  the  common  rules  of  society  are 
nonsense  too.  (This  talk  of  levels  seems  evasive ;  the 
parallel  with  extreme  pacificism  may  make  it  less 
vague.  Granted  that  it  is  true  that  the  right  thing  is 
for  no  man  to  resist  another  under  any  circumstances, 
a  man  who  lives  the  life  of  a  religious  mendicant  has 
or  nearly  has  the  right  to  appeal  to  it.  But  a  man 
who  allows  the  police  to  protect  his  property,  however 
passively,  is  already  not  living  by  that  rule  and  cannot 
appeal  to  it,  only  to  the  lower-level  idea  of  justice. 
Which  level  is  being  used  is  thus  a  matter  of  logical 
consistency.)  The  feeling  of  universality  given  by  this 
ironical  method  is  due  to  the  reader's  sense  that  '  levels ' 
are  implied  one  above  another.  Not  that  this  is  the  only 
way  ot  giving  a  feeling  of  universality,  winch  has  been 

202 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

done,  I  suppose,  more  strongly  by  works  whose  thought 
and  feeling  seem  straightforward,  but  it  gives  a  clear 
case  open  to  analysis. 

The  same  feeling  for  independence  comes  out  in  the 
Restoration  development  of  an  analytic  prose  with  short 
sentences ;  the  idea  must  be  purged  of  associations  of 
feeling  and  made  to  stand  on  its  own  (which  fitted  in, 
again,  with  the  rise  of  the  sciences).  After  what  Dry  den 
called  the  Deluge,  the  republic,  one  could  not  take  the 
old  symbolisms,  even  the  Elizabethan  poetic  ones,  for 
granted ;  one  must  go  back  to  the  simplest  things  and 
argue  from  them.  So  it  was  in  this  period  that  the  forms 
used  in  Basic  English  seemed  most  attractive  to  stylists 
and  were  most  developed,  though  I  know  of  none 
actually  invented  then.  The  assumption  of  humility 
in  such  flat  plain-man  writing,  together  with  its  analytic 
power  of  generalisation,  leads  a  stylist  inevitably  to 
irony,  winch  was  already  what  they  wanted  on  other 
grounds. 

I  should  say  dicn  that  the  essential  process  behind  the 
Opera  was  a  resolution  of  heroic  and  pastoral  into  a  cult 
of  independence.  But  the  word  is  capable  of  great 
shifts  of  meaning,  chiefly  because  nobody  can  be  inde- 
pendent altogether;  Gay  meant  Peachum  to  be  the 
villain,  and  there  is  a  case  for  thinking  him  more  in- 
dependent than  Macheath.  The  animus  against  him 
seems  not  only  that  due  to  a  traitor;  Gay  dislikes  him 
as  a  successful  member  of  the  shopkeeping  middle  class, 
whereas  Macheath  is  either  from  a  high  class  or  a  low 
one.  After  listing  the  great  Robinson  among  rogues 
I  had  better  compare  his  life  to  Gay's  own. 

The  first  pages  of  Crusoe  are  a  eulogy  of  the  safety 
and  sanity  of  the  life  open  to  the  hero  as  a  shopkeeper ; 

203 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  description  of  the  forces  in  his  mind  that  made 
him  run  away  to  a  life  of  adventure,  kept  to  the  tone 
that  would  satisfy  the  reader  intended,  is  of  great  subtlety, 
follows  at  once,  and  makes  the  best  part  of  the  book. 
There  is  no  excuse ;  he  ran  because  of  a  shameful  passion 
for  new  worlds;    but  he  thought  there  was  money  in 
them  too,  and  no  years  of  solitude  can  stop  him  from 
keeping  his  sanity  and  his  accounts.    The  moral  is  that 
the  other  sort  of  independence  is  the  best,  but  that 
Crusoe  has  somehow  proved  it  by  choosing  this  one; 
the  qualities  that  would  have  made  him  a  good  shop- 
keeper are  those  that  made  him  a  good  pioneer.     In 
any  case  this  is  the  proper  framework  for  a  story  of 
adventure    (the   alternative    is    the    later    invention    of 
making  the  hero  childish).     Sindbad  the  Sailor  has  the 
same  shop-keeping  background  and  feels  like  Crusoe 
that  he  is  a  black  sheep  to  have  left  it,  but  has  a  grander 
way  of  riding  across  the  conflict  of  ideals.    After  wasting 
on  his  pleasures  almost  all  the  money  his  father  left 
him  he  remembers  some  words  of  Solomon,  which  seem 
to  have  been  misreported;    Solomon  often  gets  a  fine 
effect  from  putting  together  two  merely  contradictory 
proverbs,  but  in  the  sacred  text  these  particular  quota- 
tions   waste    themselves    in    separation.      Sindbad    re- 
membered his  father  saying,  *  Three  things  are  better 
than  other  three ;    the  day  of  death  is  better  than  the 
day  of  birth ;    the  grave  is  better  than  frustration ;   and 
a  live  dog  is  better  than  a  dead  lion.'    Stirred  to  manhood 
by  this  wholly  contradictory  advice   (a  lesson  to  the 
litterateur)  he  sold  the  rest  of  his  property  for  bales  of 
goods,  and  set  sail  on  the  voyages  that  have  made  him 
immortal. 

Gay  merely  escaped  to  his  uncle  when  apprenticed 

204 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

to  a  shop,  failed  to  get  the  political  bribes  he  thought 
his  due  (he  is  always  attacking  political  bribery),  but 
succeeded  in  living  as  a  parasite  on  the  nobility  (his  work 
is  full  of  horror  of  parasitism).  He  went  on  living  with 
the  Qucensburics  when  quite  wealthy  enough  to  live 
on  his  own,  and  puzzled  his  friends  by  letters  full  of 
praise  of  the  state  he  avoided. 

All  the  money  I  get  is  saving,  so  that  by  habit  there  may  be 
some  hopes  (if  I  grow  richer)  of  my  becoming  a  miser.  All 
misers  have  their  excuses.  The  motive  to  my  parsimony  is 
independence. 

Still,  a  well-protected  praise. 

I  am  every  day  building  villakins,  and  have  given  over  that  of 
castles.  If  I  were  to  undertake  it  [which  ?]  in  my  present  cir- 
cumstances I  should  on  the  most  thrifty  scheme  soon  be  straitened  ; 
and  I  hate  to  be  in  debt,  for  I  cannot  bear  to  pawn  five  pounds' 
worth  of  my  liberty  to  a  tailor  or  butcher.  I  grant  that  this  is 
not  having  the  true  spirit  of  modern  nobility,  but  it  is  hard  to 
cure  the  prejudice  of  early  education. 

He  is  not  easy  about  it,  but  the  conflict  is  clear.  He 
preferred  to  continue  as  a  hanger-on  of  the  aristocracy, 
and  liked  Macheath  partly  because  a  similar  preference 
was  his  ruin;  but  the  reason  was  that  it  seemed  more 
independent  than  a  moderate  independent  income. 
Nobody  could  make  him  get  out  of  the  South  Sea  Bubble 
because  it  was  worth  while  to  make  a  very  large  fortune 
but  not  worth  while  to  keep  what  he  had  won ;  it 
would  only  mean  losing  the  excuse  of  poverty.  One 
might  satirise  flattery,  but  at  bottom  it  was  not  as  sordid 
as  frugality.  Here  at  any  rate  his  life  was  consistent  with 
his  achievement.  Every  reference  to  money  in  the 
Opera  carries  a  satire  on  the  normal  attitude  to  it  no  less 

205 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

complete  than  those  of  Timon  of  Athens  which  Marx 
analysed  with  so  much  pleasure. 

An  interesting  family  of  words  deserves  to  be  followed 
in  detail  dirough  the  shifts  of  feeling  in  these  ideas; 
rogue,  dog,  arch,  honest,  roguish,  dogged,  etc.  Rogue 
in  the  sixteenth  and  arch  in  the  seventeenth  century 
appear  suddenly  with  a  mystery  about  their  derivation, 
like  the  others  had  a  use  in  describing  criminals  before 
developing  a  use  in  describing  *  good  fellows,'  and 
imply  courage  in  both  describer  and  described.  After 
the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century  die  special  use  of 
them  exchanges  this  sense  of  danger  for  complacence, 
and  becomes  silly  unless  kept  for  children  or  young  girls. 
It  was  the  same  process  that  spoilt  Poetic  Diction. 
The  next  development  of  a  queer  sort  of  pastoral,  already 
strong  in  Wordsworth,  triumphant  in  Lewis  Carroll, 
has  accepted  this  decision  that  it  can  be  used  only  on 
the  child. 

I  should  connect  this  with  the  Romantic  attack  on 
Poetic  Diction,  conceived  as  a  specially  Augustan  trait. 
No  doubt  all  Pope's  work  claims  a  dignity  that  detaches 
it  from  the  object  in  the  way  the  Romantics  did  not 
want,  and  Pope  himself  conventionalised  his  form  in 
the  translations ;  but  the  life  of  this  impersonal  dignified 
form  was  in  the  play  of  irony  and  judgment  that  could 
shelter  behind  it.  What  the  Romantics  attacked  was 
the  late  eighteenth-century  emptiness  of  poetic  diction, 
frequently  that  of  their  own  early  verse.  So  far  from 
overthrowing  it,  the  Romantic  Revival  was  largely 
engaged  in  reviving  not  only  the  Augustan  cult  of 
independence  but  the  perversions  of  traditional  myth 
by  which  it  was  expressed ;  the  chief  difference  was  that 
the  poet  now  stole  the  dignities  of  the  swain  and  the 

206 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

hero  for  himself,  omitting  to  add  irony,  but  Pope  had 
started  that  already.  It  is  clear  that  the  view  of  the  poet 
as  outcast  and  unacknowledged  legislator,  equally  strong 
in  Byron  and  Shelley,  puts  him  exactly  in  the  position 
of  the  mythical  tragic  hero.  There  is  a  subtler  and  less 
assertive  version  of  the  myth  in  the  favourite  theme  of 
Shelley  and  Keats,  that  the  poet  obtains  a  vision  of 
eternal  extrahuman  beauty  for  an  instant,  by  magic,^ 
at  great  cost,  and  then  faints  back  to  the  normal  life  of  \ 
the  world.  Even  the  poet's  more  normal  relation  with  ' 
Nature  in  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge  assumes  that  his 
main  business  is  to  reconcile  nature  to  his  tribe.  That 
magical  ideas  about  the  poet  were  inherent  in  the 
Romantic  Movement  is  shown  very  neatly  by  Gray's 
Bard,  in  which  the  last  of  the  Welsh  poets,  to  be  killed 
by  the  usurper  because  his  political  influence  is  so  great, 
fixes  by  prophecy  the  future  of  English  history.  Cole- 
ridge's Imagination,  and  the  more  gradually  developed 
use  of  the  word  '  Genius '  about  poets,  show  them  trying 
to  live  up  to  this  example.  Another  main  romantic 
element  is  the  development  of  interest  in  '  personality  ' ; 
the  style  of  an  author  is  conceived  as '  original,'  valuable 
because  different  from  everybody  else's;  a  character 
in  a  novel  is  treated  primarily  as  an  individual,  so  that 
the  first  thing  is  to  show  he  is  different  from  all  other 
individuals.  It  seems  possible  that  the  machinery  by 
which  tins  idea  was  produced  was  not  merely  a  cult  of 
independence  but  the  extension  of  the  magical  ideas 
about  the  hero  to  any  one  who  received  attention. 

To  say  that  a  culture  has  certain  fundamental  myths, 
seldom  clearly  stated,  but  used  in  the  development  of 
its  literature,  is  not  to  say  much  about  the  product. 
Nor  does  it  show  that  any  one  use  of  them  has  much 

207 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

connection  with  another.  But  there  is,  I  think,  one  clear 
case  of  influence  of  the  Augustan  on  the  Romantic 
cult  of  independence ;  Byron  was  fond  of  praising  the 
Augustans  to  the  disadvantage  of  his  contemporaries 
and  ready  enough  to  throw  irony  into  his  self-exaltation ; 
Byronism  is  almost  consciously  the  Poet  as  Macheath. 
Its  peculiar  mixture  of  aristocracy  and  democracy  is  just 
that  of  the  mixture  of  outcasts  from  heroic  and  pastoral ; 
the  relations  of  Manfred  with  the  Swiss  shepherd  on  the 
mountain  are  those  of  two  demigods  above  the  falsity 
of  civilisation.  The  importance  of  incest,  so  baffling  to 
poor  Augusta,  was  that  the  hero's  family  as  well  as 
himself  must  be  too  great  to  keep  the  common  rules  of 
humanity,  and  unable  to  fit  a  fit  mate  elsewhere ;  an 
appeal  to  the  Pharaohs  rather  than  the  Borgias.  One 
need  not  pursue  the  tradition  through  Baudelaire  back 
to  Wilde;  it  keeps  an  idea  that  crimes  are  the  fate  of 
the  artist  merely  because  of  his  greatness,  and  that  to 
commit  hubris  is  only  to  admit  that  one  is  the  tragic 
demigod.  No  doubt  this  ancient  dramatic  theme 
becomes  a  nuisance  when  the  artist  persists  in  acting  it 
all  the  time,  and  Byron's  own  good  work  was  done 
when  he  had  come  at  any  rate  to  take  it  for  granted. 
But  in  a  milder  form  it  is  almost  the  only  myth  still  in 
active  use  for  poetry. 

Curved  like  a  thin  blue  scythe,  and  smoothly  reaping 
Their  mushroom  minarets  and  toadstool  towers, 
My  speed  has  set  the  steel  horizon  sweeping 
And  mowed  the  Indies  like  a  field  of  flowers. 

I  am  not  sure  how  far  the  ideas  I  am  trying  to  express 
are  obvious.  To  me  there  seems  no  way  of  approaching 
this  verse  from  an  excellent  traditional  poem  by  Roy 
Campbell,    The  Albatross,  but  to  say  *  The  albatross, 

208 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

tragic  and  alone  like  the  poet,  the  figure  of  pastoral 
that  corresponds  to  his  position  as  hero,  cleanses  the 
cluttered  world  of  civilisation  by  magical  influence, 
and  can  do  this  because  it  is  so  completely  cut  off 
from  it/ 


■ 


209 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 


n 

The  stock  device  of  the  play  is  a  double  irony  like  a 
Seidlitz  powder,  piling  a  dramatic  irony  onto  what  was 
already  an  irony.  This  forces  one  to  read  back  a  more 
complex  irony  onto  the  first  one,  and  the  composure 
of  language  of  the  characters  makes  us  feel  that  the 
speaker  took  the  whole  sense  for  granted.  So  he  is  a 
pastoral  character;  he  moves  among  fundamental 
truths.  The  trick  of  style  that  makes  this  plausible  is 
Comic  Primness,  the  double  irony  in  the  acceptance  of 
a  convention.  This  is  never  meant  by  the  speaker  as  a 
single  critical  irony  ('  I  pretend  to  agree  with  this  only 
to  make  you  use  your  judgment  and  see  that  it  is  wrong  ') 
— if  an  irony  does  that  it  does  not  seem  prim — though 
the  author  may  mean  a  critical  irony  when  he  assigns 
the  character  a  primness.  No  sentence  of  the  play  is 
quite  free  from  this  trick;  one  might  only  doubt  over 
*  bring  those  villains  to  the  gallows  before  you  and  I 
am  satisfied,'  but  though  there  is  plain  indignation  in 
both  Gay  and  Macheath,  for  Macheath  to  feel  it  is  in 
a  degree  *  rogue-become-judge,'  funny  because  self- 
righteous.  One  might  divide  Comic  Primness  with  the 
usual  divisions  of  comedy,  according  to  the  degree  to 
which  the  inherent  criticism  is  intended. 

It  may  assume  that  the  conventions  are  right  and  that 
to  be  good  is  to  keep  them;  by  applying  them  un- 
expectedly a  sense  of  relief  is  put  into  their  tightness, 
though  one  is  still  good ;  they  are  made  to  seem  deliber- 
ately assumed,  so  that  the  normal  man  is  unchanged 
beneath  them,  and  this  gives  a  sense  of  power  and  freedom 
just  as  custard-pic  farce  docs.     You  may  say  that  tins 

210 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

simple  type  assumes  the  others — *  What  is  an  important 
truth  for  us  would  not  be  true  on  a  higher  level ;  it  is 
good  to  see  the  superficiality  of  the  rules  we  must  none 
the  less  keep.'  But  tlus  may  be  inherent  and  yet  well 
out  of  sight.    This  type  goes  with  *  free  '  comedy. 

It  may  imply  simply  that  the  conventions  are  wrong, 
as  a  critical  irony  would,  but  if  it  is  to  remain  Comic 
Primness  it  must  then  also  imply  that  the  speaker  does 
not  feel  strong  enough,  or  much  desire,  perhaps  for 
selfish  reasons,  to  stand  up  against  them;  he  shelters 
behind  them  and  feels  cosy.  One  would  use  this  in 
*  critical '  comedy,  but  it  would  be  hard  to  make  a 
complete  critical  comedy  without  ever  leaving  comic 
primness. 

In  full  Comic  Primness  (an  element  of  *  full '  comedy) 
the  enjoyer  gets  the  joke  at  both  levels — both  that  which 
accepts  and  that  which  revolts  against  the  convention 
that  the  speaker  adopts  primly.  It  is  a  play  of  judgment 
which  implies  not  so  much  doubt  as  a  full  understanding 
of  issues  between  which  the  enjoyer,  with  the  humility 
of  impertinence,  does  not  propose  to  decide.  For  this 
pleasure  of  effective  momentary  simplification  the 
arguments  of  the  two  sides  must  be  pulling  their  weight 
on  the  ironist,  and  though  he  might  be  sincerely  indig- 
nant if  told  so  it  is  fair  to  call  him  conscious  of  them. 
A  character  who  accepts  this  way  of  thinking  tends  to 
be  forced  into  isolation  by  sheer  strength  of  mind,  and 
so  into  a  philosophy  of  Independence. 

This  may  be  used  for  Ironical  Humility,  whose  simplest 
gambit  is  to  say,  '  I  am  not  clever,  educated,  well  born,' 
or  what  not  (as  if  you  had  a  low  standard  to  judge  by), 
and  then  to  imply  that  your  standards  are  so  high  in  the 
matter  that  the  person  you  are  humbling  yourself  before 

211 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

is  quite  out  of  sight.  This  has  an  amusing  likeness  to 
pastoral;  the  important  man  classes  himself  among 
low  men,  and  the  effect  is  to  raise  his  standards,  not  to 
lower  them.  At  the  stage  of  *  device  prior  to  irony ' 
this  is  an  essential  weapon  of  pastoral.  I  shall  try  to 
show  that  Polly  uses  it  in  this  way.  Also  there  is  a  feeling 
of  ironical  humility  diffused  generally  through  the  play, 
as  if  the  characters  knew  they  were  really  much  better 
than  heroes  and  prime  ministers,  not  merely  like  them, 
though  they  do  not  choose  to  say  so  clearly ;  the  reason 
for  this,  I  think,  is  that  the  pretence  that  Macheath  and 
Walpole  are  both  heroes  is  a  sort  of  ironical  humility 
in  the  audior  (*  I  am  easily  impressed  '),  not  so  much 
a  critical  one  as  one  implying  a  reserve  of  force — *  by 
this  means  I  can  understand  them  completely/  Such  an 
ironical  humility  is  in  effect  like  the  attitude  of  the 
scientist ;  the  observer  must  not  alter  what  he  observes 
but  shrink  to  a  mere  eye.  A  man  like  Boswell  writes 
of  himself  like  this  because  he  wants  to  keep  himself 
out  of  the  scene  of  which  in  fact  he  was  the  stage- 
manager.  The  richness  of  the  ironical  humility  of 
Chaucer  is  that  he  combines  the  truth-seeking  feeling 
in  the  trick  with  its  poetical  one  of  pastoral  (the  notion 
that  a  rightly  conducted  love  affair  is  a  means  of  under- 
standing the  world  seems  to  hold  the  two  together). 
The  ironical  humility  of  Samuel  Butler  is  a  more  curious 
matter.  It  aims  at  outflanking  the  official  moralists, 
making  their  pomposity  absurd  by  giving  similar  but 
different  moral  advice  under  cover  of  giving  merely 
practical  advice.  '  Every  system  leads  to  absurdity  in 
extreme  cases,  so  we  must  be  careful  to  keep  our  system 
to  plain  obvious  cases ' ;  *  we  must  avoid  the  ideal  and 
extreme   because   we   have   been   taught   false   ideals.' 

212 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

He  cannot  help  thinking  about  higher  matters  than  he 
pretends  to,  but  this  acts  as  a  criticism  of  language; 

*  the  words  of  all  moralists  shift  as  mine  do,  only  they 
have  not  the  sense  to  see  it.  I  may  not  be  doing  much 
but  I  am  keeping  my  head.'  That  is  the  force  of  the 
perpetual  analogy  from  business  to  spiritual  matters, 
and  the  double  irony  of  his  sustained  praise  of  the 

*  mean.'  (He  does  not  try  to  stop  altering  the  field  in 
the  course  of  observing  it  by  making  himself  small 
but  uses  the  alterations  for  further  knowledge.)  *  Pray 
let  nobody  idealise  me  ' ;  the  whole  charm  of  his  trick, 
and  it  is  a  genuine  one,  is  that  he  refuses  to  recognise  the 
grandeur  of  the  senses  which  he  cannot  keep  out  of  his 
words.  The  figure  of  pastoral  here  is  Vhomme  tnoyen 
sensuel,  whom  Butler  did  in  fact  idealise  with  painful 
results  in  his  own  life.  Butler's  small  pet  list  of  endurable 
artists  is  interesting  because  they  all  did  the  same  trick ; 
it  seems  clear  that  he  was  right  in  feeling  that  Handel 
based  himself  on  ironical  humility  and  used  it  to  re- 
concile the  heroic  feelings  and  the  Christian  ones. 

The  man  who  uses  the  third  sort  of  comic  primness 
need  not,  however,  go  off  in  these  directions ;  he  may 
simply  not  be  interested  in  the  aspect  of  the  matter  that 
makes  it  a  problem.  Aristotle's  remarks  in  the  Rhetoric 
about  how  one  should  treat  evidence  extracted  by 
torture,  according  as  it  is  favourable  or  not,  are  a  good 
example,  because  they  show  how  such  a  man  can  seem 
cxticmcly  *  innocent '  without  seeming  silly  or  ill- 
informed.  The  question  whether  it  is  stupid  to  torture 
witnesses  at  all  has  obviously  occurred  to  him  but  is  not 
the  matter  in  hand.  Zuckermann's  book  on  Monkey 
Hill,  and  much  of  Darwin  for  that  matter,  give  che 
same  effect ;  one  sentence  may  seem  Swift  satirising  Man 

213 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

and  the  next  a  scientist  satirising  scientific  method,  but 
the  man  is  keeping  himself  to  one  purpose.  Even  if 
he  is  interested  in  the  matter  he  may  imply  a  claim  that 
it  is  irrelevant  without  implying  a  claim  to  be  ignorant 
of  it.  This  reserve  about  the  degree  to  which  one  has 
got  the  matter  in  hand  is  of  course  a  central  method 
of  irony.  And  the  same  effect  may  be  given  by  someone 
who  has  not  yet  discovered  that  the  problem  exists; 
this  may  be  called  *  genuine  innocence  *  and  in  a  way 
returns  the  third  sort  of  comic  primness  to  the  first ; 
the  speaker  feels  that  this  is  a  lively  way  out,  the  hearer 
diat  it  is  rich  in  contradictions.  This  again  may  be 
imitated ;  the  ironist  may  claim  that  to  so  good,  natural, 
innocent,  etc.,  a  person  as  himself  the  problem  in  hand 
does  not  arise—what  he  says  satisfies  both  parties  to 
the  dispute,  almost  like  a  pun ;  there  is  no  way  of  proving 
that  he  is  conscious  of  the  problem— if  he  is  made  to 
hear  of  it  he  will  still  feel  the  same.  This  is  best  when  so 
arranged  that  the  other  man  cannot  attempt  to  call  the 
bluff  widiout  exposing  himself,  winch  arises  naturally 
in  the  conventional  setting  of  Comic  Primness. 

It  is  obvious  that  the  characters  of  the  Opera  are  in 
some  sense  '  artificial,'  though  to  know  just  how  im- 
possible their  talk  is  one  would  have  to  inspect  the 
contemporary  Newgate  more  thoroughly  than  Gay  did 
or  than  we  can  do.  (There  is  a  story  in  The  Flying  Post 
or  Weekly  Medley ,  Jan.  n,  1728-9,  to  which  attention 
has  been  drawn  recendy,  showing  Gay  doing  his  best 
to  get  information  from  Peachum,  but  whether  it  is 
true  or  not  makes  no  difference  to  the  argument  here.) 
This  feeling  of  artificiality  is,  I  think,  given  by  the  trick 
essential  to  mock-pastoral  (or  the  dignity  of  style  which 
allows  of  it) ;   we  are  not  enabled  to  know  how  much 

214 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

they  and  how  much  the  author  has  put  into  their  ironies. 
The  puppets  are  plausible  if  they  don't  mean  all  that  the 
play  puts  into  their  words  and  delightful  if  they  do,  and 
the  shift  between  the  two  theories  is  so  easy  that  we  take 
them  as  both.  One  must  add  doubt  about  this  to  the 
previous  doubts  about  such  an  irony  in  plain  speech, 
with  which  it  continually  interlocks.  To  discuss  *  what 
the  characters  mean  '  is  therefore  a  ridiculous  occupation. 
I  shall  not,  however,  guard  myself  against  this  mistake ; 
the  trick  would  not  work  unless  the  audience  was 
able  to  imagine  for  itself  a  level  at  which  the  meanings 
were  just  plausible  and  still  delightful,  and  presumably 
the  author  does  the  same.  It  is  clear,  for  instance,  that 
Polly's  remarks  are  arranged  to  fit  in  with  a  theory  of 
innocence  more  than  Macheath's,  and  his  again  more  than 
Peachum's;  Peachum  would  claim  that  the  problem 
implied  was  irrelevant  rather  than  unknown.  Indeed 
the  critical  attack  on  *  character '  in  plays  previous  to 
the  stress  on  *  personality  '  seems  now  often  pedantic 
and  beyond  what  a  man  like  Mr.  Eliot,  who  gave  the 
attack  its  weight,  would  approve. 

Filch.  Really,  madam,  I  fear  I  shall  be  cut  off  in  the  flower  of 
my  youth,  so  that,  every  now  and  again,  since  I  was  pumped, 
I  have  thoughts  of  taking  up  and  going  to  sea. 

The  use  of  Filch  is  that,  when  you  meet  young  men  in 
other  walks  of  life  taking  themselves  as  seriously  as  he 
does,  you  can  feel  they  are  like  him — unconscious  in 
the  way  he  is.  On  the  other  hand  (so  far  as  one  can 
separate  the  feeling  of  a  sentence  from  the  feeling  of 
the  whole  play),  the  author  means  no  more  by  this  than 
to  keep  up  the  joke  of  the  style ;  he  does  not  mean,  for 
instance,  that  it  is  always  stupid  to  take  oneself  seriously. 

215 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

I  should  call  this  the  Free  sort  of  comic  primness  in  the 
author,  and  mere  dignity  in  the  speaker. 

Mrs.  Peachum.  You  should  go  to  Hockley-in-the-Hole,  and 
to  Marlebone,  child,  to  learn  valour ;  these  are  the  schools  that 
have  bred  so  many  great  men.  I  thought,  boy,  by  this  time, 
thou  hadst  lost  fear  as  well  as  shame.  Poor  lad !  how  little  does 
he  know  yet  of  the  Old  Bailey !  For  the  first  fact,  I'll  ensure 
thee  against  being  hanged  ;  and  going  to  sea,  Filch,  will  come  time 
enough,  upon  a  sentence  of  transportation.  But  now,  since  you 
have  nothing  better  to  do,  even  go  to  your  book,  and  learn 
your  catechism ;  for,  really,  a  man  makes  but  an  ill  figure  in  the 
ordinary's  paper  who  cannot  give  a  satisfactory  answer  to  his 
questions. 

1  How  little  he  knows  yet  of  life ! ' — a  simple  twist 
localises  each  sentence  to  the  sort  of  life  considered.  To 
localise  so  oddly  is  in  itself  to  generalise — *  One  would 
find  a  prosing  and  complacent  piety  as  the  basis  of  feeling 
in  any  settled  way  of  hfe.'  The  main  thing  the  author 
wants  to  say  is  *  Take  these  as  ordinary  people ;  there 
is  nothing  queer  about  them  but  their  economic  con- 
ditions/ Mrs.  Peachum's  kind  of  piety  is  indeed  put 
in  its  place,  but  we  are  not  told  that  it  need  be  hypo- 
critical. Yet  there  seems  a  touch  of  archness  in  *  going  to 
sea,  Filch.'  One  can  only  say  that  Mrs.  Peachum  is 
between  simplicity  and  the  first  sort  of  comic  primness, 
and  the  author  between  the  first  and  the  third. 

Mrs.  Peachum.  How  the  mother  is  to  be  pitied  who  hath 
handsome  daughters !  Locks,  bolts,  bars,  and  lectures  of  morality 
are  nothing  to  them ;  they  have  as  much  pleasure  in  cheating 
a  father  and  mother  as  in  cheating  at  cards. 

(This  may  look  back  to  the  first  words  of  the  divine 
Polly — to  *  make  a  poor  hand  of  her  beauty '  would 
be  not  to  cheat  with  her  cards.)     The  surprise  of  the 

216 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

device  of  rhetoric  by  which  Mrs.  Peachum  leaps  from 
the  instruments  of  her  trade  to  a  presumption  of  virtue 
makes  us  feel  '  all  moral  lectures  are  like  locks ;  all 
used  to  imprison  others  as  much  as  possible.'  By  being 
a  spirited  and  striking  hypocrite  she  exposes  a  normal 
hypocrisy;  the  style  makes  the  critic  inherent  in  the 
rogue.  How  far  she  knows  she  is  amusing  for  this 
reason  is  a  more  difficult  question ;  I  suppose  she  has 
the  first  sort  of  comic  primness  and  the  author  the  third. 

Peachum.  A  lazy  dog.  .  .  .  This  is  death,  without  reprieve. 
I  may  venture  to  book  him. 

There  is  a  conscious  contrast  between  the  decision  and 
the  prim  caution  about  keeping  the  book  neat. 

There  is  not  a  fellow  that  is  cleverer  in  his  way,  and  saves 
more  goods  out  of  the  fire,  than  Ned. 

He  took  advantage  of  the  fire  for  robbery ;  '  saving  is 
a  good  act/  Peachum's  jokes  may  well  be  supposed  to 
be  unconscious  from  habit,  but  they  imply  *  these  ideas 
are  a  bit  queer,  and  allow  of  latitude,  but  we  have  just 
as  much  right  to  them  as  the  others.'  One  must  allow 
him  the  third  sort  of  comic  primness  as  well  as  his 
author,  though  the  author's  hatred  of  him  brings  in 
complications. 

One  cannot  go  far  into  the  play  without  insisting  on 
the  distinction  between  the  two  sorts  of  rogues,  which 
is  made  very  clearly  and  gives  a  rich  material  for  irony. 
The  thieves  and  whores  parody  the  aristocratic  ideal, 
the  dishonest  prison-keeper  and  thief-catcher  and  their 
families  parody  the  bourgeois  ideal  (though  the  divine 
Polly  has  a  foot  in  both  camps) ;  these  two  ideals  are 
naturally  at  war,  and  the  rise  to  power  of  the  bourgeois 

217 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

had  made  the  war  important.  Their  most  obvious 
difference  is  in  the  form  of  Independence  that  they 
idealise;  thus  the  Pcachums*  chief  objection  to  Mac- 
heath  as  a  son-in-law  is  that  he  is  a  hanger-on  of  the 
aristocracy. 

Mrs.  P.  Really,  I  am  sorry,  upon  Polly's  account,  the  captain 
hath  not  more  discretion.  What  business  hath  he  to  keep  com- 
pany with  lords  and  gentlemen  ?  He  should  leave  them  to  prey 
upon  each  other. 

P.  Upon  Polly's  account  ?  What  the  plague  does  the  woman 
mean? 

The  discovery  follows.  The  puzzle  is  that  both  Peachums 
feel  dicing  with  the  aristocracy  might  involve  independ- 
ence in  their  sense  as  well  as  his. 

Mrs.  P.  I  knew  she  was  always  a  proud  slut,  and  now  the 
wench  hath  played  the  fool  and  married,  because,  forsooth,  she 
would  do  like  the  gentry !  Can  you  support  the  expense  of  a 
husband,  hussy,  in  gaming,  drinking,  and  whoring?  .  .  .  If  you 
must  be  married,  could  you  introduce  nobody  into  our  family 
but  a  highwayman  ?  Why,  thou  foolish  jade,  thou  wilt  be  as 
ill-used  and  as  much  neglected  as  if  thou  hadst  married  a  lord. 

P.  Let  not  your  anger,  my  dear,  break  through  the  rules  of 
dccc.icy ;  for  the  captain  looks  upon  himself  in  the  military 
capacity  as  a  gentleman  by  his  profession.  Besides  what  he 
hath  already,  I  know  he  is  in  a  fair  way  of  getting  or  dying, 
and  both  these,  let  me  tell  you,  are  most  excellent  chances  for  a 
wife.    Tell  me,  hussy,  are  you  ruined  or  no  ? 

Mrs.  P.  With  Polly's  fortune  she  might  very  well  have  gone 
off  to  a  person  of  distinction ;  yes,  that  you  might,  you  pouting 
slut. 

Decency  is  the  polite  tone  the  bourgeois  should  keep  up 
towards  the  wasteful  aristocrat  he  half  despises,  so  it  is 
not  clear  whether  ruined  means  *  married '  or  *  un- 
married ' ;  he  is  merely,  with  bourgeois  primness,  getting 
the  situation  clear.     But  who  is  a  person  of  distinction  ? 

218 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

Mrs.  Pcachum  is  muddled  enough  to  mean  a  real  lord. 
(First  joke;  they  will  marry  anything  for  money.) 
But  she  may  mean  a  wealthy  merchant  or  the  squire 
he  could  become.  (Second  joke ;  this  gets  at  the  squires 
by  classing  them  as  bourgeois  and  at  the  lords  by  pre- 
ferring the  squires.)  Squire  Western,  a  generation  later, 
was  indignant  in  just  this  way  at  the  idea  of  marrying 
his  daughter  to  a  lord. 

Gay  forced  this  clash  onto  his  material  by  splitting 
up  the  real  Jonathan  Wild  into  Peachum  and  Machcath, 
who  appear  in  the  story  as  villain  and  hero.  Swift 
complained  that  Gay  had  wasted  a  chance  of  good 
mock-heroic  in  Machcath's  last  speech  to  the  gang; 
he  should  have  said  *  let  my  empire  be  to  the  worthiest ' 
like  Alexander.  Gay  was  busy  with  his  real  feelings, 
and  Machcath  says,  *  Bring  those  villains  to  the  gallows 
before  you,  and  I  am  satisfied/  But  though  he  hates 
Peachum  he  makes  him  the  parody  of  a  real  sort  of 
dignity,  that  of  the  man  making  an  independent  income 
in  his  own  line  of  business,  and  seems  to  have  been 
puzzled  between  the  two  ideals  in  his  own  life.  In  the 
play  the  conflict  is  hardly  made  real  except  in  the  char- 
acter of  Polly ;  the  fact  that  both  parties  are  compared 
to  Walpole  serves  to  weaken  it  to  the  tone  of  comedy. 

The  ironies  of  the  two  parties  are  naturally  of  different 
intentions. 

Jemmy.  .  .  .  Why  are  the  laws  levelled  at  us  ?     Are  we  more 
dishonest  than  the  rest  of  mankind  ?     What  we  win,  gentlemen, 
is  our  own,  by  the  law  of  arms  and  the  right  of  conquest. 
[This  specially  heroic  member  peached.] 

Crook.  Where  shall  we  find  such  another  set  of  practical 
philosophers,  who,  to  a  man,  are  above  the  fear  of  death  ? 

Wat.  Sound  men,  and  true. 

Robin.  Of  tried  courage,  and  indefatigable  industry. 

219 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Ned.  Who  is  there  here  that  would  not  die  for  his  friend  t 

Harry.  Who  is  there  here  that  would  betray  him  for  his 
interest  t 

Mat.  Show  me  a  gang  of  courtiers  that  can  say  as  much. 

Ben.  We  are  for  a  just  partition  of  the  world,  for  every  man 
hath  a  right  to  enjoy  life. 

The  main  effect  of  this  mutual  comparison,  of  the 
assumption  of  a  heroic  manner  here,  is  to  make  the 
aristocrats  seem  wicked  and  the  thieves  vain.  But  even 
for  this  purpose  it  must  act  the  other  way,  and  make 
both  charming  by  exchanging  their  virtues;  that  the 
aristocrats  can  be  satirised  like  this  partly  justifies  the 
thieves,  and  to  extend  to  Walpolc's  government  the 
sort  of  sympathy  it  was  generous  to  feel  for  the  thieves 
was  strong  satire  precisely  because  it  was  gay.  The 
author  means  the  passage  hardly  less  than  the  thieves 
do  as  a  statement  of  an  attitude  admittedly  heroic; 
Ben  Budge  anticipates  Jefferson,  and  the  whole  com- 
plaint against  the  morality  of  the  play  was  that  they 
are  too  hard  to  answer.  No  doubt  there  is  a  further 
critical  irony  in  the  author — *  the  whole  business  of 
admiring  Marlborough  and  Alexander  is  nonsense ' ; 
and  in  people  like  thieves,  in  whom  heroism  does  so 
much  less  harm  than  politicians,  Gay  is  ready  enough 
for  an  irresponsible  sort  of  admiration.  It  seems  enough, 
if  one  requires  a  tidy  formula,  to  say  that  the  thieves 
have  both  grandeur  and  the  first  sort  of  comic  primness 
and  their  author  the  third. 

The  political  ironies  of  Pcachum  and  Lockit  are  of  a 
different  sort.  The  difficulty  in  saying  whether  they 
mean  their  ironies  docs  not  arise  because  they  are  simple- 
minded  but  because  they  are  indifferent;  they  bring 
out  the  justification  that  they  are  necessary  to  the  state 

220 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

and  partake  of  its  dignity  firmly  and  steadily,  as  a  habitual 
politeness,  and  this  goes  on  till  we  see  them  as  por- 
tentous figures  with  the  whole  idea  of  the  state,  sometimes 
a  cloud  that's  dragonish,  dissolving  in  their  hands. 

Peachum.  In  one  respect  indeed  we  may  be  reckoned  dis- 
honest, because,  like  great  statesmen,  we  encourage  those  who 
betray  their  friends. 

Lockit.  Such  language,  brother,  anywhere  else  might  turn  to 
your  prejudice.    Learn  to  be  more  guarded,  I  beg  you. 

Either  *  it  is  not  safe  to  accuse  the  great  or  *  it  is  bad 
for  any  man's  credit  to  admit  that  in  anything  he  is  as 
bad  as  they  are.'  But  there  is  no  sense  of  surprise  in 
this  double  meaning ;  the  primness  of  caution  is  merely 
indistinguishable  from  the  primness  of  superior  virtue. 

Peachum.  'Tis  for  our  mutual  interest,  'tis  for  the  interest  of 
the  world  that  we  should  agt^e.  If  I  said  anything,  brother,  to 
the  prejudice  of  your  credit,  I  ask  pardon. 

Credit  is  used  both  about  business  and  glory — '  that 
fellow,  though  he  were  to  live  these  six  months,  will 
never  come  to  the  gallows  with  any  credit.'  The  world 
may  be  the  whole  of  society  or  Society,  the  only  people 
who  are  *  anybody,'  the  rich  who  alone  receive  the 
benefits  of  civilisation.  The  traditional  hero  has  a 
magical  effect  on  everything;  the  Whig  politicians  act 
like  tradesmen  but  affect  the  whole  country;  Lockit 
and  Peachum  have  the  heroic  dignity  of  the  great 
because  they  too  have  a  calculating  indifference  to  other 
men's  lives.  The  point  of  the  joke  is  that  the  villains 
are  right,  not  that  they  are  wrong ;  '  the  root  of  the 
normal  order  of  society  is  a  mean  injustice ;  it  is  ludicrous 
to  be  complacent  about  this;  but  one  cannot  conceive 
its  being  otherwise.'    The  conclusion  is  not  that  society 

221 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

should  be  altered  but  that  only  the  individual  can  be 
admired. 

This  double-irony  method,  out  of  which  the  jokes  are 
constructed,  is  inherent  in  the  whole  movement  of  the 
story.  We  feel  that  Macheath's  death  is  not  *  downright 
deep  tragedy,'  nor  his  reprieve — a  sort  of  insult  to  the 
audience  not  made  real  in  the  world  of  the  play — a  happy 
ending,  because,  after  all,  the  characters,  from  their 
extraordinary  way  of  life,  are  all  going  to  die  soon 
anyway;  then  this  turns  back  and  we  feel  that  we 
are  all  going  to  die  soon  anyway.  One  of  the  splendid 
plain  phrases  of  Macheath  brings  out  the  feeling  very 
sharply : 

A  moment  of  time  may  make  us  unhappy  for  ever. 

The  antithesis  might  make^or  ever*  in  the  life  of  eternity ' 
from  a  speaker  who  expected  such  a  thing,  or  as  derived 
from  heaven  *  in  one  of  those  moments  whose  value 
seems  outside  time/  His  life  seems  the  more  dazzlingly 
brief  because  *  for  ever  '  assumes  it  is  unending. 

That  Jemmy  Twitcher  should  peach  me  I  own  surprised  me. 
*Tis  a  plain  proof  that  the  world  is  all  alike,  and  that  even  our 
gang  can  no  more  trust  one  another  than  other  people  ;  therefore, 
I  beg  you,  gentlemen,  to  look  well  to  yourselves,  for,  in  all 
probability,  you  may  live  some  months  longer. 

'  And  no  more;  take  care  because  you  are  in  danger' 
is  the  plain  sense ;  but  the  turn  of  the  phrase  suggests 
*  You  may  live  as  long  as  several  months,  so  it  is  worth 
taking  trouble.  If  you  were  dying  soon  like  me  you 
might  be  at  peace.'  It  is  by  these  faint  double  meanings 
that  he  gets  genuine  dignity  out  of  his  ironical  and 
genteel  calm. 
An  odd  trick  is  used  to  drive  this  home;    as  most 

222 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

literature  uses  the  idea  of  our  eventual  death  as  a  sort  of 
frame  or  test  for  its  conception  of  happiness,  so  this 
play  uses  hanging. 

Lucy.  How  happy  am  I,  if  you  say  this  from  your  heart ! 
For  I  love  thee  so,  that  I  could  sooner  bear  to  see  thee  hanged 
than  in  the  arms  of  another. 

It  is  true  enough,  but  she  means  merely  '  dead '  by 
hanged ;  no  other  form  of  death  occurs  to  her. 

Mrs.  P.  Away,  hussy.    Hang  your  husband,  and  be  dutiful. 

Hang  here  has  its  real  sense  crossed  with  the  light  use  in 
swearing — *  don't  trouble  about  him ;  he's  a  nuisance ; 
be  dutiful  to  your  parents.' 

Polly.  And  will  absence  change  your  love  ? 
Mach.  If  you  doubt  it,  let  me  stay — and  be  hanged. 

'  Whatever  happens '  or  even  *  and  be  hanged  to  you/ 
but  he  really  would  be  hanged. 

Macheath  (in  prison).  To  what  a  woeful  plight  have  I  brought 
myself!  Here  must  I  (all  day  long,  till  I  am  hanged)  be  con- 
fined to  hear  the  reproaches  of  a  wench  who  lays  her  ruin  at 
my  door. 

His  natural  courage,  and  the  joke  that  the  scolding 
woman  is  a  terror  to  which  all  others  are  as  nothing, 
give  '  till  I  am  hanged  '  the  force  of '  for  the  rest  of  my 
life,'  as  if  he  was  merely  married  to  her.  Finally  as  a 
clear  light  use : 

Peachum.  Come  home,  you  slut,  and  when  your  fellow  is 
hanged,  hang  yourself,  to  make  your  family  some  amends. 

Hanging  in  the  songs  may  even  become  a  sort  of 
covert  metaphor  for  true  love.  *  Oh  twist  thy  fetters 
about  me,  that  he  may  not  haul  me  from  thee,'  cries 

223 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Polly  very  gracefully,  but  her  song  while  her  father  is 
hauling  carries  a  different  suggestion. 

No  power  on  earth  can  e'er  divide 
The  knot  that  sacred  love  hath  joined. 
When  parents  draw  against  our  mind 
The  true  love's  knot  they  faster  bind. 

It  is  the  hangman's  knot,  and  the  irony  goes  on  echoing 
through  the  play.  The  songs  can  afford  to  be  meta- 
physical poetry  in  spite  of  their  date  because  they  are 
intended  to  be  comically  '  low ' ;  only  an  age  of  reason 
could  put  so  much  beauty  into  burlesque  or  would  feel 
it  needed  the  protection ;  they  take  on  the  vigour  of 
thought  winch  does  not  fear  to  be  absurd.  This  excel- 
lence depends  on  the  same  ironical  generosity— a  feeling 
that  life  is  fresh  among  these  people— as  lies  behind 
Gay's  whole  attitude  to  his  characters.  (The  point  that 
genuine  pastoral  could  then  only  be  reached  through 
burlesque  was  indeed  made  clearly  by  Johnson  about 
Gay's  own  admirable  Pastorals.) 

There  are  two  elements  in  the  joke  of  this.  One 
comes  from  the  use  of  the  local  details  of  a  special  way 
of  life  for  poetry  regardless  of  how  they  seem  to  out- 
siders, like  Johnson's  Rambler  showing  how  an  Esqui- 
maux would  take  metaphors  for  his  love-rhetoric  from 
seal-blubber.  This  in  itself  is  satisfying  to  the  age  of 
reason  because  it  shows  the  universal  forces  at  work. 
Secondly  it  uses  the  connection  between  death  (here 
hanging)  and  the  sexual  act,  which  is  not  merely  a 
favourite  of  Freud  but  a  common  joke  of  the  period ; 
the  first  effect  of  this  is  to  give  an  odd  ironical  courage 
to  die  wit  of  the  characters. 

Here  ends  all  dispute,  for  the  rest  of  our  lives, 
For  this  way,  at  once,  I  please  all  my  wives. 

224 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

Which  way  shall  I  turn  me,  how  can  I  decide  ? 
Wives,  the  day  of  our  death,  are  as  fond  as  a  bride. 

The  joke  need  not  be  given  the  additional  deathliness 
of  the  joke  against  marriage : 

Mrs.  Trapes.  If  you  have  blacks  of  any  kind,  brought  in  of 
late,  mantoes,  velvet  scarfs,  petticoats,  let  it  be  what  you  will, 
I  am  your  chap,  for  all  my  ladies  are  very  fond  of  mourning. 

Both  the  ladies  want  to  be  hanged  *  with '  Macheath, 

in  the  supreme  song  of  the  play ;   *  but  hark,'  he  replies, 

there  is  the  bell ;  this  is  real  death,  which  one  dies  alone. 

A  song  by  Mrs.  Pcachum,  that  lady  of  easy  sentiment, 

introduced  early  to  make  us  clear  on  the  point,  shows 

the  range  of  ideas  in  this  direct  and  casual  comedy. 

If  any  wench  Venus'  girdle  wear, 
Though  she  be  never  so  ugly, 
Lilies  and  roses  will  quickly  appear, 
And  her  face  look  wondrous  smugly. 

A  rich  irony  identifies  the  beauty  created  by  desire  in 

the  eye  of  the  beholder  with  self-satisfaction.    The  last 

word  admits  and  enjoys  the  banality  of  the  preceding 

flower-symbols. 

Behind  the  left  ear  so  fit  but  a  cord 
(A  rope  so  charming  a  zone  is !) 

Monks  use  them  as  zones ;  they  stand  for  asceticism. 

The  youth  in  his  cart  hath  the  air  of  a  lord, 

Macheath  is  a  *  captain  ' ;  it  is  the  military  hero's  chariot 
of  triumph.  (When  the  cart  is  driven  away  he  is  left 
hanging.) 

And  we  cry,  There  dies  an  Adonis ! 

— Whose  annual  wound  in  Lebanon  allured 
The  Syrian  damsels  to  lament  his  fate 
In  amorous  ditties  all  a  summer's  day — 

— Whose  tragic  sacrifice,  every  spring,  like  Christ,  makes 

P  22  5 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  crops  grow.    It  is  a  rare  case  of  the  full  use  of  the 
myth. 

At  Mrs.  Pcachum's  first  entry  she  finds  her  husband 
deciding  which  thief  to  hang  next  sessions ;  her  cue  is 
the  end  of  the  laugh  at  a  string  of  aliases  for  Walpole. 

Mrs.  P.  What  of  Bob  Booty,  husband  ?  I  hope  nothing  bad 
hath  betided  him.  You  know,  my  dear,  he's  a  favourite  customer 
of  mine — 'twas  he,  made  me  a  present  of  this  ring. 

P.  I  have  set  his  name  down  in  the  black  list,  that's  all,  my 
dear ;  he  spends  his  life  among  women,  and,  as  soon  as  his  money 
is  gone,  one  or  other  of  the  ladies  will  hang  him  for  the  reward, 
and  there's  forty  pound  lost  to  us  for  ever ! 

Mrs.  P.  You  know,  my  dear,  I  never  meddle  in  matters  of 
death  ;  I  always  leave  those  affairs  to  you.  Women,  indeed,  are 
bitter  bad  judges  in  these  cases ;  for  they  are  so  partial  to  the  brave, 
that  they  think  every  man  handsome  who  is  going  to  the  camp, 
or  the  gallows. 

The  song  follows.  *  Spends  his  life  among  women  ' 
means  among  prostitutes ;  not  to  say  so  implies  that 
they  are  what  all  women  are.  Mrs.  P.'s  callous  squcam- 
ishness  only  points  the  moral ;  the  reason  that  all  women 
are  bitter  bad  judges  about  killing  men  by  treachery  is 
that  they  find  so  much  interest  in  doing  it  to  their  lovers. 
It  is  the  first  hint  of  that  eerie  insistence  on  the  sex  war 
by  which  the  play  makes  betrayal  itself  a  lascivious  act. 
Perhaps  the  most  grisly  version  of  this  notion  is  the 
one  relapse  into  sentiment  of  the  great  Peachum.  By 
this  time  Mrs.  Peachum  (who  pleaded  for  a  brave  man 
before)  is  firmly  entrenched  in  brutality  behind  her 
bourgeois  *  duty.' 

Mrs.  Peachum,  Peachum,  Polly  listening. 
Mrs.  P.   The  thing,  husband,  must  and  shall  be  done.     For 
the  sake  of  intelligence  we  must  take  other  measures  and  have 
him  peached  the  next  session  without  her  consent.    If  she  will 
not  know  her  duty  we  know  ours. 

226 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

P.  But,  really,  my  dear !  it  grieves  one*s  heart  to  take  off  a 
great  man.  When  I  consider  his  personal  bravery,  his  fine  strata- 
gems, how  much  we  have  already  got  by  him,  and  how  much 
more  we  may  get,  methinks  I  can  t  find  it  in  my  heart  to  have  a 
hand  in  his  death :  I  wish  you  could  have  made  Polly  undertake  it. 

Mrs.  P.  But  in  a  case  of  necessity — our  own  lives  arc  in  danger. 

P.  Then  indeed  we  must  comply  with  the  customs  of  the 
world,  and  make  gratitude  give  way  to  interest. 

Then  indeed — when  not  heroic  one  can  always  be  sure 
to  be  respectable,  because  bourgeois,  because  self-seeking. 
She  started  with  the  insinuating  pomp  of  the  language 
of  diplomacy.  Their  lives  are  in  no  danger ;  they  only 
think  Macheath  will  betray  them  because  they  think 
he  is  like  Pcachum.  To  be  heroic  would  be  to  hang  on 
for  what  they  can  get.  Warmed  into  feelings  of  gener- 
osity by  this  situation,  and  fretfully  wishing  that  Polly 
might  save  him  the  moral  effect  of  deciding  to  violate 
them,  he  shows  a  fleeting  sympathy  with  romantic 
love,  which  so  often  kills  its  loved  one,  and  of  which 
at  other  times,  in  his  bourgeois  virtue,  he  disapproves. 
Swift  is  beaten  clean  off  die  field  here. 

The  same  idea  is  implicit  in  one  of  the  purest  of 
Polly's  fancies. 

Lucy,  Macheath,  Polly.    (The  condemned  Hold.) 

Polly  (entering).  Where  is  my  dear  husband?  Was  ever  a 
rope  intended  for  this  neck !  Oh,  let  me  throw  my  arms  about 
it,  and  throttle  thee  with  love.  .  .  .  What  means  my  love  ?  not 
one  kind  word !  not  one  kind  look !  Think  what  thy  Polly 
suffers  to  see  thee  in  this  condition  ! 

Thus  when  the  swallow,  seeking  pcey, 

Within  the  sash  is  closely  pent, 
His  consort  with  bemoaning  lay 

Without  sits  pining  for  the  event. 
Her  chattering  lovers  round  her  skim  ; 
She  heeds  them  not,  poor  bird,  her  soul's  with  him. 

227 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Her  first  words  say  that  her  love  is  death ;  her  love  has 
caused  his  arrest ;  the  presence  of  her  love  here  only 
makes  it  impossible  for  him  to  be  saved  by  the  love  of 
Lucy.  *  Think  what  your  Polly  suffers ' ;  even  without 
these  accidents  her  love  would  be  mere  additional 
torture.  And  for  what  event  is  the  consort  (which  also 
seeks  prey)  of  this  swallow  pining  ?  Event  may  mean 
'  whatever  happens/  but  the  sense  thrown  at  us  is  *  the 
thing  happening/  the  exciting  thing;  they  both  mean 
to  be  in  at  the  death. 

Lucy.  Am  I  then  bilked  of  my  virtue  ? 

*  The  thing  I  have  paid  for  ? ' — the  slang  verb  drags  in 
a  ludicrous  and  frightfully  irrelevant  bit  of  money- 
satire.  Only  the  unyielding  courage  of  Macheath,  who 
keeps  the  thing  firmly  on  the  level  of  the  obvious,  gives 
one  the  strength  to  take  it  as  comedy  or  even  to  feel 
the  pathos  of  the  appeal  of  Polly. 

Lucy.  Hadst  thou  been  hanged  five  months  ago,  I  had  been 
happy. 

Polly.  And  I  too.  If  you  had  been  kind  to  me  till  death,  it 
would  not  have  vexed  me — and  that's  no  very  unreasonable 
request  (though  from  a  wife)  to  a  man  who  hath  not  above 
seven  or  eight  days  to  live. 

He  takes  so  completely  for  granted  their  state  of  self- 
centredness  tempered  by  blood-lust  that  the  main  over- 
tone of  her  speech  is  that  so  often  important  to  the 
play — *  we  have  all  very  few  days  to  live,  and  must  live 
with  spirit/  The  selfishness  of  her  remarks  reconciles 
us  to  his  selfish  treatment  of  her,  and  the  idea  behind 
their  pathos  to  his  way  of  life. 

So  that   to  follow  up   the  ideas   of  *  lovc-betrayal- 
death/  the  sacred  delight  in  the  tragedy  of  the  hero,  is 

22S 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

to  reach  those  of  *  pathetic  right  to  selfishness,'  the 
ideal  of  Independence.  This  comes  out  more  clearly 
in  the  grand  betrayal  scene  of  the  second  act,  of  Mac- 
heath  by  the  prostitutes.  The  climax  is  one  of  the 
double  ironies. 

Jenny.  These  are  the  tools  of  a  man  of  honour.    Cards  and 
dice  are  only  fit  for  cowardly  cheats,  who  prey  on  their  friends. 

(She  takes  up  the  pistol ;  Tawdry  takes  up  the  other.) 

(First  laugh;  the  great  are  like  the  rogues  but  more 
despicable.)  Having  got  his  pistols  she  calls  in  the  police. 
(Second  laugh ;  the  rogues  are  after  all  as  despicable  as 
the  great.)  But  this  is  not  merely  a  trick  of  surprise 
because  she  means  it ;  *  we  are  better  than  the  others 
only  because  we  know  the  truth  about  all  human 
beings ' ;  the  characters  arc  always  making  this  general- 
isation. '  Of  all  beasts  of  prey,'  remarks  Lock  it,  4  man- 
kind is  the  only  sociable  owe,1  The  play  only  defends 
its  characters  by  making  them  seem  the  norm  of  mankind 
and  its  most  informed  critics,  and  does  this  chiefly  by 
the  time-interval  in  their  ironies. 

Jenny.  I  must  and  will  have  a  kiss  to  give  my  wine  a  zest. 

(They  take  him  about  the  neck,  and  make  signs  to  the  con- 
stables, who  rush  in  upon  him.) 

Peachum.  I  seize  you,  sir,  as  my  prisoner. 

It  is  the  kiss  of  Judas,  an  expression  of  love  with  a 
parallel  to  hanging  in  it,  like  Polly's,  that  gives  zest. 
Wine  is  normally  used  as  a  symbol  of  spiritual  intoxica- 
tion, but  in  this  play  the  spirit  is  a  sinister  one,  rather 
as  the  word  pleasure,  which  it  uses  continually,  always 
refers  to  the  pleasures  ('  mystical '  because  connected 
with  death-wishes)  of  cheating,  or  cruelty,  or  death. 

229 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

The  five  other  uses,  counting  pleased,  that  I  don't  quote, 
are  all  of  this  sort.    The  doubtful  one  is  Lockit's — 

Bring  us  then  more  liquor.     To-day  shall  be  for  pleasure, 
to-morrow  for  business. 

He  has  told  the  audience  that  he  will  make  Peachum 
drunk  and  so  have  the  pleasure  of  cheating  him. 

The  more  sinister  because  by  making  the  pleasure  of 
betrayal  a  mere  condiment  she  claims  that  to  her  the 
affair  is  trivial — '  What  you  can  be  made  to  feel  heart- 
breaking I  have  the  strength  to  judge  rightly.'  Anyway 
the  zest  keeps  us  from  thinking  her  so  stupid  as  to  be 
mercenary  about  it,  which  would  be  to  feel  nothing. 

Peachum  treats  Macheath  here  with  a  sinister  respect 
not  chiefly  intended  as  mockery;  all  politeness  has  an 
element  of  irony,  but  this  is  a  recognition  of  the  captain's 
claims ;   he  is  now  half  divine  because  fated  to  sacrifice. 

P.  You  must  now,  sir,  take  your  leave  of  the  ladies ;  and,  if 
they  have  a  mind  to  make  you  a  visit,  they  will  be  sure  to  find 
you  at  home  [and  sure  of  the  *  last  pleasure  '  of  seeing  the  execu- 
tion. The  preliminaries  of  death  arc  a  failure  in  trie  sex  war, 
since  the  ladies  can  no  longer  be  deceived,  even  if  death  itself 
is  a  triumph  in  it].  The  gentleman,  ladies,  lodges  in  Newgate. 
Constables,  wait  upon  the  captain  to  his  lodgings. 

Mac.  At  the  tree  I  shall  suffer  with  pleasure, 
At  the  tree  I  shall  suffer  with  pleasure ; 
Let  me  go  where  I  will 
In  all  kinds  of  ill 
I  shall  find  no  such  furies  as  these  are. 

He  can't  go  where  he  will — he  expects  to  leave  prison 
only  for  Hell.  The  half-poetical,  half-slang  word  tree 
applies  both  to  the  gibbet  and  to  the  cross,  where  the 
supreme  sacrificial  hero  suffered,  with  ecstasy. 

230 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

Peachum.  Ladies,  I'll  take  care  the  reckoning  shall  be  dis- 
charged. 

(Exit  Macheath,  guarded,  with  Peachum  and  constables.) 

He,  not  they,  is  the  fury,  the  avenging  snake-goddess; 
to  look  after  the  reckoning  is  his  whole  function  towards 
both  parties.  The  delicacy  of  his  irony  (this,  I  think,  is  a 
rule  about  good  ironies)  is  that  it  can  safely  leave  you 
guessing  about  both  parties'  consciousness  of  it;  the 
more  sincerely  he  treats  Macheath  as  an  aristocrat  the 
more  cruelly  he  isolates  him — 

(In  the  condemned  Hold.) 

Lockit.  Do  but  examine  them,  sir — never  was  better  work 
— how  genteelly  they  are  made.  They  will  fit  as  easily  as  a  glove, 
and  the  nicest  gentleman  in  England  might  not  be  ashamed  to 
wear  them.  (He  puts  on  the  chains.)  If  I  had  the  best  gentleman 
in  the  land  in  my  custody,  I  could  not  equip  him  more  hand- 
somely.   And  so,  sir,  I  now  leave  you  to  your  private  meditations. 

— the  less  sincerely,  the  more  he  mocks — but  at  the 
whole  notion  of  aristocracy  that  Macheath  has  aped 
into  disaster.  Thus  even  if  the  insincerity  was  expressed 
grossly,  so  that  Macheath  could  appeal  through  it  to  his 
audience  ('  obviously  you  mean  this,  and  it  is  unfair ') 
he  could  still  not  appeal  against  it  as  a  personal  insult 
('  I  really  have  the  virtues  of  the  aristocrat ') ;  they 
would  then  be  mocked,  and  he  would  have  confessed 
he  was  not  one  of  them.  Such  an  irony  is  a  sort  of 
intellectual  imitation  of  more  valuable  states  of  mind. 
To  the  opponent,  there  is  no  practical  use  in  distinguish- 
ing between  whether  the  man  is  conscious  or  unconscious 
of  his  meaning — if  he  isn't  he  will  be  when  he  is  told. 
4  Oh,  so  you  thought  that  funny,  did  you  >  Well,  I 
wasn't  thinking  of  that  special  case,  but  it  seems  to  apply 
to  that  all  right.'     The  force  of  irony  is  its  claim  to 

231 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

innocence ;  the  reason  for  its  wide  usefulness  is  that  the 
claim  may  still  be  plausible  when  the  man's  consciousness 
of  his  irony  is  frank — *  This  is  the  normal  thing  to  feel ; 
I  felt  this  before  I  had  met  people  like  you.' 

Overpoliteness  is  a  form  of  comic  primness  worth 
looking  at  for  a  moment  in  general.  The  original  sense 
is  '  I  respect  you  too  much  to  be  less  formal/  and  the 
effect  is  to  shut  you  out  from  intimacy ;  *  I  want  you 
to  be  formal  too.'  This  may  be  a  coy  claim  to  attention, 
since  to  be  shut  out  suggests  a  desire  to  come  in,  or  an 
insult,  since  you  may  be  below  the  intimacy  not  above 
it.  The  combination  says,  '  Notice  that  I  would  like  to 
insult  you  but  will  not  grant  you  even  that  form  of 
intimacy.'  However,  the  politeness  accepts  you  as  a 
civilised  person,  since  otherwise  it  would  be  no  use ; 
*  You  ought  to  know  already  that  we  can't  be  intimate.' 
Tins  also  allows  of  irony :  '  I  am  polite  on  principle 
even  to  people  like  you ;  the  best  people  do  this,  because 
any  one  may  deserve  it ;  but  it  is  curious  to  reflect  that 
even  you  may.'  And  it  may  show  that  it  is  not  trying 
to  hide  these  meanings  or  that  it  thinks  you  too  much  of 
a  fool  to  see  them.  The  last, .  I  think,  is  what  makes 
Pope's  Epistle  to  Augustus  so  peculiarly  insulting :  *  I 
am  safe  in  saying  this,  though  you  would  persecute  me 
if  you  could  understand  it,  because  you  can't.' 

I  must  go  back  to  the  betrayal  scene. 

Macheath.  Was  this  well  done,  Jenny  ?  Women  are  decoy 
ducks,  who  can  trust  thenr?  Beasts,  jades,  jilts,  harpies,  furies, 
whores. 

He  may  mean  that  these  women  are  whores,  which  is 
no  discovery,  or  that  all  women  are,  which  is  made 
plausible  only  by  being  half-said.  The  climax,  the  worst 
he  can  say  of  them,  is  the  obvious,  which  brings  back 

232 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

a  sort  of  comedy  to  the  strain  of  the  scene.  But  its 
trenchant  flatness  also  makes  us  feel  that  the  second 
meaning  is  obvious,  though  it  would  contradict  the  first 
(he  could  not  blame  them  for  being  like  everybody). 
Even  this  is  a  sort  of  double  irony. 

*  Was  this  well  done  ? '  belongs  to  Cleopatra  in  all  the 
versions  of  her  story.  It  docs  not  matter  whether  we 
take  Machcath  as  quoting  it  (he  quotes  Shakespeare 
a  moment  before)  or  re-inventing  it,  but  it  would  be 
wrong  to  take  it  only  as  a  comic  misuse  of  heroic  dignity 
like  Ancient  Pistol's ;  however  queer  the  logic  may  be 
there  should  be  a  grand  echo  in  one's  mind  from  the 
reply  of  Charmian : 

It  is  well  done,  and  fitting  for  a  princess 
Descended  from  so  many  mighty  kings. 

— indeed  Pcachum  drives  the  point  home  at  once : 

Your  case,  Mr.  Machcath,  is  not  particular ;  the  greatest  heroes 
have  been  undone  by  women. 

The  pleasure  in  seeing  that  two  systems  so  different  to 
emotion  or  morality  as  Antony  and  Machcath  work 
in  the  same  way  is  connected  with  the  Royal  Society, 
but  there  are  queerer  forces  in  it  than  that. 

Grand  only  by  simplicity  and  concentration,  and  only 
by  this  grandeur  not  normal  colloquial  English  (so  that 
it  is  a  reliable  phrase  for  Machcath),  the  question  owes 
its  tenseness  to  its  peculiar  assumptions ;  if  it  is  fitting 
the  other  person  must  have  thought  the  act  good,  not 
merely  allowable,  and  yet  must  be  capable  of  being  made 
to  sec  that  it  is  wrong  by  a  mere  appeal.  So  there  must 
be  a  powerful  and  obvious  clash  of  two  modes  of  judg- 
ment. When  it  is  used  to  Cleopatra  one  must  remember 
that  by  choosing  this  death  she  destroys  her  children 

233 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

only  to  avoid  a  hurt  to  her  pride  (not  till  her  being  carted 
in  the  triumph  becomes  certain  does  the  world  become 
empty  for  her  without  Antony) ;  that  die  soldier  who 
speaks  feels  that  she  has  broken  her  word  to  Caesar; 
that  Shakespeare's  play  has  made  us  suspect  her  of 
planning  to  betray  Antony,  and  that  some  of  her  tan- 
trums— dragging  the  messenger  about  by  the  hair— -can 
only  have  seemed  comic,  vulgar  and  wicked.  Only  by 
a  magnificent  forcing  of  the  sympathies  of  the  audience 
is  she  made  a  tragic  figure  in  the  last  act.  The  sentence, 
then,  used  to  her,  means  '  You  have  cheated  Caesar 
and  destroyed  yourself;  you  think  this  heroic  but  it  is 
childish ;  it  is  like  the  way  you  cheated  Antony  till 
you  destroyed  him.'  It  is  because  of  this  suggestion 
that  the  answer  of  Charmian  seems  to  call  back  and 
justify  Cleopatra's  whole  life ;  all  her  acts  were  indeed 
like  this  one;  all  therefore  fitting  for  a  princess.  It  is 
a  measure  of  the  quccrncss  of  this  alarming  tragedy 
(no  one  can  say  how  much  irony  there  is  in  the  barge 
speech)  that  the  effect  of  the  question  is  very  little  altered 
when  it  is  *  parodied  '  for  the  comic  opera ;  both  uses 
give  a  quasi-mystical  *  justification  by  death'  which 
does  not  pretend  to  justify  by  normal  standards. 

So  to  explain  the  effect  of  the  phrase  here  (it  is  a 
great  effect)  one  has  to  invent  queer  but  plausible 
reasons  for  thinking  *  This  was  well  done.'  The  most 
obvious  is  that  the  betrayal  is  poetic  justice  on  him  for 
being  unfaithful  to  Polly;  the  structure  of  the  play 
indeed  insists  on  this.  The  first  act  gives  the  personal 
situation ;  we  meet  Polly,  her  parents  at  their  business, 
finally  Machcath,  secretly  married  to  her  and  hiding  in 
the  house.  From  his  richly-prepared  entry  to  the  end 
of  the  first  act  he  goes  on  swearing  eternal  faithfulness 

234 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

to  her — *  if  you  doubt  it,  let  me  stay — and  be  hanged/ 
Two  grand  scenes  of  the  second  act  then  introduce  us 
to  the  tribe  of  which  these  two  arc  symbolic  heroes, 
the  society  of  which  they  arc  flowers  (for  Polly,  unlike 
her  parents,  is  *  aristocratic '  as  well  as  '  bourgeois ') 
— to  the  eight  thieves  of  Machcath's  gang,  which  he 
dare  not  join  since  Polly's  father  is  now  his  enemy, 
then  to  the  eight  whores  he  collects  because  he  must 
be  idle. 

I  must  have  women— there  is  nothing  unbends  the  mind  like 
them  ;  money  is  not  so  strong  a  cordial  for  the  time. 

Cordial,  medicine  for  the  heart,  implies  drink,  which 
gives  courage— love  is  an  intoxication.  To  unbend 
your  mind  is  to  loosen  the  strong  bow  of  your  thought 
so  that  it  will  be  strong  in  the  next  demand  on  it;  a 
statesman's  excuse  for  pleasure  (indeed  the  time  seems 
to  imply  *  this  unfortunate  but  no  doubt  brief  period 
of  history ') ;  used  here  with  a  ludicrous  or  pathetic 
dignity  whose  very  untruth  has  the  gay  dignity  of 
intentional  satire.  Macheath,  like  Antony,  like  the 
ambitious  politician,  must  unbend  his  mind  because  he 
must  forget  his  fears.  Into  his  statement  of  this  fact, 
whose  confession  of  fear  frees  it  from  bravado,  he 
throws  a  further  comparison  to  the  avarice  inherent  in 
the  life  of  safety  he  despises  (so  that  these  few  words 
include  both  bourgeois  and  aristocrat) ;  *  to  those  who 
live  within  the  law  the  mere  possession  of  money  is  a 
sufficient  intoxication.'  But  however,  well  he  talks  he 
is  treating  Polly  with  contempt : 

What  a  fool  is  a  fond  wench !  Polly  is  most  confoundedly 
bit.  I  love  the  sex ;  and  a  man  who  loves  money  might  as  well 
be  contented  with  one  guinea,  as  I  with  one  woman. 

235 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

(Satire  on  money  justifies  anything.) 

Do  all  we  can,  women  will  believe  us ;  for  they  look  upon  a 
promise  as  an  excuse  for  following  tbeir  own  inclinations. 

(*  However  frankly  theatrical  we  make  our  professions 
of  heroic  love,  professions  which  necessarily  have  the 
irony  inherent  in  all  fixed  rules  of  politeness,  such  as 
are  essential  to  civilisation/)  It  was  the  innocence  and 
pathos  of  Polly  in  *  oh  ponder  well/  we  are  told,  that 
swung  round  the  audience  on  the  first  night.  From  the 
standpoint  of  heroic  love  the  act  was  well  done. 

In  any  case  the  woman  who  really  undoes  him  is 
not  Jenny  but  Polly,  however  much  against  her  will ; 
unselfish  love  leads  to  honest  marriage,  and  therefore 
Polly's  father  is  determined  to  have  him  killed.  It  is 
love  at  its  best  diat  is  the  most  fatal.  This  forces  her  to 
be  like  Cleopatra,  and  may  make  it  poetic  justice  that 
he  should  betray  her ;  anyway  it  removes  much  of  the 
guilt  from  Jenny.  And  there  is  always,  since  this  brings 
the  thing  nearer  to  a  stock  tragedy,  the  idea  that  it  is 
in  a  fundamental  way  *  well  done  '  to  cause  the  hero's 
death  because  it  is  necessary  to  the  play. 

But  there  is  a  more  curious  pathos  in  the  question  i£ 
one  forgets  about  Polly,  as  Macheath  has  done.  It  is 
the  questioner  here  who  has  both  answers  to  the  question 
in  his  mind.  The  '  compliments  '  of  the  ladies  to  one 
another,  through  which  he  has  sat  placidly  drinking, 
treat  just  such  betrayals  by  Jenny  only  as  acts  of  heroic 
self-control. 

Mrs.  Coaxer.  If  any  woman  hath  more  art  than  another,  to 
be  sure  'tis  Jenny  Diver.  Though  her  fellow  be  never  so  agree- 
able, she  can  pick  his  pocket  as  coolly  as  if  money  were  her  only 
pleasure.  Now  that  is  a  command  of  the  passions  uncommon 
in  a  woman. 

236 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

Jenny.  I  never  go  to  a  tavern  with  a  man  but  in  the  way  of 
business.  I  have  other  hours,  and  other  sort  of  men,  for  my 
pleasure.    But  had  I  your  address,  madam — 

(On  the  face  of  things  a  prostitute  is  unlike  other  women 
in  only  wanting  money.  In  this  satire  a  prostitute  is 
an  independent  woman  who  wants  all  the  nobility 
included  in  the  idea  of  freedom,  and  a  chaste  genteel 
woman  only  wants  a  rich  marriage.  If  you  hate  Jenny 
for  betraying  the  hero  then  she  is  actually  as  bad  as  a 
good  woman,  but  Mrs.  Coaxer  assumes  that  she  obvi- 
ously can't  be,  and  therefore  that  her  behaviour  on  the 
crucial  issue  of  money  shows  nobility ;  she  is  faithful 
to  her  sorority  when  she  acts  like  tins.  Jenny's  reply 
shows  the  humility  of  a  truly  heroic  soul.) 

Macheath.  Have  done  with  your  compliments,  ladies,  and 
drink  about.    You  are  not  so  fond  of  me,  Jenny,  as  you  used  to  be. 

Jenny.  'Tis  not  convenient,  sir,  to  show  my  fondness  before 
so  many  rivals.  'Tis  your  own  choice,  and  not  my  inclination, 
that  will  determine  you. 

He  cannot  say  she  has  deceived  him.  *  What,'  he  says 
as  she  enters : 

And  my  pretty  Jenny  Diver  too  !  as  prim  and  demure  as  ever ! 
There  is  not  any  prude,  however  high  bred,  hath  a  more  sanctified 
look,  with  a  more  mischievous  heart :  ah,  thou  art  a  dear  artful 
hypocrite ! 

He  loves  her  for  having  the  power  to  act  as  she  so  soon 
acts  to  him  (there  is  a  bitter  gentility  in  it  which  he  too 
feels  to  be  heroic)  both  as  a  walking  satire  on  the  claims 
to  delicacy  of  the  fine  ladies  and  as  justified  in  her  way 
of  life  by  her  likeness  to  the  fine  ladies,  whose  superiority 
he  half  admits. 

Macheath.  ...  If  any  of  the  ladies  choose  gin,  I  hope  they 
will  be  so  free  as  to  call  for  it. 

237 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Jenny.  You  look  as  if  you  meant  mc.  Wine  is  strong  enough 
for  me.  Indeed,  sir,  I  never  drink  strong  waters  but  when  I 
have  the  colic. 

Macheath.  Just  the  excuse  of  the  fine  ladies !  why,  a  lady  of 
quality  is  never  without  the  colic. 

The  colic  as  a  justification  for  drinking  is  a  disease  like 
the  spleen,  half-mental,  caused  by  a  life  of  extreme 
refinement,  especially  as  expressed  by  tight-lacing.  It 
is  because  he  so  fully  understands  and  appreciates  her 
half-absurd  charm  that  he  is  so  deeply  shocked  by 
what  should  have  been  obvious,  that  it  is  a  weapon 
frankly  used  against  himself. 

His  respect  for  her  is  very  near  the  general  respect 
for  independence;  the  main  conflict  in  his  question  is 
that  between  individualism  and  the  need  for  loyalty. 
In  being  a  *  beast  of  prey/  the  play  repeats,  she  is  like 
all  humanity  except  in  her  self-knowledge  and  candour, 
winch  make  her  better.  She  is  the  test  and  therefore 
somehow  the  sacrifice  of  her  philosophy ;  quasi-heroic 
because  she  takes  a  theory  to  its  extreme ;  if  wrong 
then  because  she  was  '  loyal '  to  it.  Macheath's  question 
becomes  *  It  is  a  fine  thing  when  individuals  like  us  can 
sustain  themselves  against  society.  But  for  that  very 
reason  we  ought  to  hold  together;  surely  it  is  not 
well  done  of  you  to  prey  upon  me ' — with  the  idea 
' 1  thought  I  could  make  her  love  me  so  much  that  I 
could  disarm  her.'  Jenny's  answer  is  supplied  by  Mrs. 
Slammekin  in  her  complaint  at  not  sharing  in  the 
profits ;  '  I  think  Mr.  Pcachum,  after  so  long  an  acquaint- 
ance, might  have  trusted  me  as  well  as  Jenny  Diver ' ; 
she  owes  as  much  faith  to  the  professional  betrayer  as 
to  Macheath  in  his  capacity  of  genteel  rake,  *  martyr 
to  the  fair.' 

238 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

But  Macheatli  does  not  believe  in  individualism  in 
this  sense;  honour  among  thieves  is  taken  for  granted 
and  only  a  boast  by  contrast  with  politicians.  He 
believes  Ins  second  arrest  to  be  due  to  Jemmy  Twitcher, 
and  this  seems  really  to  shock  him.  The  question  does 
not  simply  mean  (what  is  inherent  in  it)  *  we  believe 
in  all  against  all,  but  now  I  am  horrified  by  it.'  It  is 
only  in  matters  of  love  that  he  has  so  nearly  believed 
in  all  against  all  as  to  put  a  real  shock  into  the  question. 
He  has  really  a  sort  of  love  for  her  (pardy  because  she 
is  against  all).  He  has  of  course  treated  her  with  more 
contempt  than  Polly.  So  that  the  more  serious  you 
make  their  feelings  for  each  other  the  more  strongly 
you  invoke  the  other  notion,  which  applies  also  to 
Polly  not  Independence  but  Love-Betrayal-Death; 
*  it  is  especially  in  all  lovers  that  we  see  that  all  human 
beings,  being  independent,  are  forced  to  prey  upon 
one  another/ 

These  notions  must  now  be  pursued  into  the  character 
of  Polly,  where  their  irony  is  more  subtle.  She  has  been 
idealised  ever  since  her  first  night.  In  the  self-righteous 
sequel  named  after  her,  when  they  are  all  transported, 
Gay  made  Macheath  a  weak  fish  permanently  in  the 
clutches  of  Jenny  Diver  and  Polly  the  only  civilised 
character  able  to  sustain  the  high  tone  demanded  by 
the  Noble  Savage.  Her  first  words  in  the  play,  at  an 
entry  for  winch  our  curiosity  has  been  worked  up  for 
two  and  a  half  pages,  make  a  rather  different  impression. 
She  uses  the  same  comic  primness  as  her  father  and  his 
clients — a  friend  of  Richardson's  told  him  he  was  too 
fond  of  *  tarantalising  '  like  Polly — and  this  delicate 
dev)ce  in  a  dramatist  may  wish  one  to  feel  any  shade  of 
sympathy  towards  the  speaker.    You  may  say  that  this 

239 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

is  a  bold  and  subtle  trick  to  defeat  the  tone  of  the  play 
and  bring  on  a  real  good  heroine  (if  she  is  not  careful 
she  will  seem  a  prig),  or  that  she  is  defending  her  lover 
by  a  process  unusual  to  her;  so  that  the  audience  will 
have  a  pleasant  surprise  on  discovering  her  true  character. 
There  is  more  in  it  than  that. 

Polly.  I  know  as  well  as  any  of  the  fine  ladies  how  to  make 
the  most  of  myself  and  of  my  man  too.  A  woman  knows  how 
to  be  mercenary,  though  she  hath  never  been  in  a  court  or  at  an 
assembly.  We  have  it  in  our  natures,  papa.  If  I  allow  Captain 
Machcath  some  trifling  liberties,  I  have  this  watch  and  other 
visible  marks  of  his  favour  to  show  for  it.  A  girl  who  cannot 
grant  some  things,  and  refuse  what  is  most  material,  will  make 
a  poor  hand  of  her  beauty,  and  soon  be  thrown  upon  the 
common. 

(The  common  is  the  heath  that  her  husband  rules.) 

This  might  be  an  attack  on  her  under  both  heads,  as 
making  a  false  fine-lady  claim  and  having  real  shop- 
keeper vices.  She  has  two  songs,  and  there  are  near 
two  pages,  containing  the  discovery  that  she  is  married, 
before  she  can  safely  be  let  speak  again. 

Pcachum's  remarks  about  her  do  not  make  up  our 
minds  for  us— 

If  the  girl  had  the  discretion  of  a  court  lady,  who  can  have  a 
dozen  young  fellows  at  her  ear  without  complying  with  one,  I 
should  not  matter  it. 

It  is  her  innocence,  which  he  admits,  that  is  untrust- 
worthy ;  it  is  a  form  of  sensuality ;  especially  because 
certain  to  change. 

She  does  not  say  what  is  *  most  material/  either  from 
the  modesty  of  virtue,  the  slyness  of  evil,  or  the  neces- 
sity of  deceiving  her  father ;  her  real  object  may  be  to 
reform  Macheath  and  make  him  an  honest  shopkeeper. 

240 


THE  BEGGAR'S   OPERA 

One  may  take  either  way  her  classing  the  unmentioned 
marriage  lines  with  the  flaunted  watch,  and  the  dignity 
of  its  appearance  among  general  terms  may  be  pathetic 
from  avarice  or  from  a  simple  pride.  *  We  have  it  in 
our  natures,  papa,'  either  because  theft  is  in  our  blood, 
or  because  our  nature  is  to  be  intelligent  as  well  as  good, 
and  could  not  reliably  be  good  otherwise.  This  is  an 
early  example  of  the  joke  from  comic  primness  about 
the  innocent  young  girl,  which  runs  on  through  Sheridan, 
Thackeray,  Dodgson,  and  Wilde — that  it  is  only  proper 
for  her  to  be  worldly,  because  she,  like  the  world,  should 
know  the  value  of  her  condition,  and  that  there  must  be 
no  question  of  whether  she  is  conscious  or  not  of  being 
worldly,  so  that  she  is  safe  (much  too  safe)  from  your 
calling  the  bluff  of  her  irony,  because  she  deserves  either 
not  to  be  told  of  the  cold  judgments  of  the  world  or  not 
to  be  reminded  of  them.  *  Make  the  most  of  my  man  ' 
may  mean  '  make  the  most  money  possible  out  of  the 
man  I  am  working  on  now  *  or  *  have  the  best  influence 
I  can  on  tins  man  to  whom  my  life  is  now  bound  ' ; 
nor  would  it  be  graceful  in  her  to  claim  that  the  second 
is  wholly  unselfish  and  so  distinguish  it  from  the  first. 
If  she  is  able  to  deceive  her  father  by  this  phrase  it  is  a 
perquisite  rightly  due  to  the  language  of  delicacy  and 
understanding.  Yet  on  the  highest  view  of  her  she  is 
absurd ;  what  could  any  woman  '  make  '  of  Macheath, 
already  a  limited  perfection  ?  To  make  him  honest 
would  be  to  make  him  mercenary.  She  might  indeed 
(I  suspect  Gay  ran  away  from  this  very  ironical  theme 
in  Polly)  make  him  a  Virginian  squire  after  transporta- 
tion, as  Moll  Flanders  did  her  *  very  fine  gentleman,  as 
he  really  is/  The  exquisite  sense  of  freedom  in  one  of 
the  ballad  lines  used  by  the  songs — *  over  the  hills  and 

Q  241 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

far  away ' — is  twisted  into  a  romantic  view  of  trans- 
portation by  a  remark  of  Polly  just  before.  But  she 
doesn't  see  her  way  to  that  now ;  she  is  not  so  placed  as 
to  have  one  purpose  and  one  meaning. 

Indeed  the  fascination  of  the  character  is  that  one  has 
no  means  of  telling  whether  she  is  simple  or  ironical ; 
not  merely  because  if  ironical  she  would  speak  as  if 
simple,  but  because  if  simple  it  would  be  no  shock  to  her, 
it  would  be  a  mere  shift  of  the  conscious  focus,  to  be  told 
her  meanings  if  ironical.  The  effect  is  that  *  the  con- 
tradictions do  not  arise  for  her;  she  is  less  impeded 
than  we  are.'  This  sort  of  thing  usually  requires  com- 
placence, and  the  Victorians  did  it  very  well,  as  in  the 
mellowness  of  the  jumps  from  spirituality  to  intrigue 
in  Trollope's  clerical  death-scenes.  Polly  accepts  her 
parents'  wise  advice,  though  she  cannot  live  up  to  it,  as 
readily  as  their  high  moral  tone,  as  readily  as  she  makes 
herself  useful  by  telling  lies  to  their  customers ;  that 
she  is  so  businesslike  makes  us  believe  in  the  vigour  of 
her  goodness ;  *  real  goodness  knows  that  if  its  practice 
in  an  imperfect  world  is  to  be  for  the  best  its  acts 
must  be  imperfect.'  She  grants  fully  that  her  love  is  a 
weakness ;  her  excuse  for  marriage  even  in  a  song 
has  a  delicate  reserve  in  its  double  use  of  the  inevitable 
criteria : 

I  thought  it  both  safest  and  best 

is  as  near  as  a  lyric  will  carry  her  to  a  moral  claim. 
You  may  always  think  her  as  bad  as  they  are.  Her  most 
shocking  effects  of  pathos,  like  the  play's  best  jokes, 
come  from  a  firm  acceptance  of  her  parents'  standards, 
which  gives  her  the  excuse  always  needed  by  poetry 
for  a  flat  statement  of  the  obvious.    Circumstances  make 

242 


THE  BEGGAR'S   OPERA 

the  low  seem  to  her  the  normal,  so  she  can  use  without 
affectation  the  inverted  hypocrisy  of  Swift. 

Peachum,  And  had  you  not  the  common  views  of  a  gentle- 
woman in  your  marriage,  Polly  ? 

Polly.  I  don't  know  what  you  mean,  sir. 

Peachum.  Of  a  jointure,  and  of  being  a  widow.  .  ,  .  Since 
the  thing  sooner  or  later  must  happen,  I  daresay  the  captain 
himself  would  like  that  we  should  get  the  reward  for  his  death 
sooner  than  a  stranger.  .  .  . 

Mrs.  Peachum.  But  your  duty  to  your  parents,  hussy,  obliges 
you  to  hang  him.  What  would  many  a  wife  give  for  such  an 
opportunity ! 

Polly.  What  is  a  jointure,  what  is  widowhood,  to  me  ?  I 
know  my  heart,  I  cannot  survive  him. 

No  less  rich  background  of  irony  would  let  us  feel  that 
this  was  true,  and  a  discovery,  and  a  confession,  and 
yet  not  be  too  burlesque  for  us  to  feel  seriously  about  her. 

Mrs.  P.  What !   is  the  wench  in  love  in  earnest  then  ?    I  hate 

thee  for  being  particular.    Why,  wench,  thou  art  a  shame  to  thy 

sex. 
Polly.  But,  hear  me,  mother — if  you  ever  loved— 
Mrs.  P.  These  cursed  playbooks  she  reads  have  been  her  ruin. 

One  word  more,  hussy,  and  I  shall  knock  your  brains  out,  if  you 

have  any. 

This  playbook  itself,  as  the  moralists  insisted,  is  as  likely 
as  the  others,  like  them  through  its  very  idealism,  to 
bring  ruin.  Mrs.  Peachum  docs  well  to  be  angry  and  is 
right  in  her  suspicion  (*  I  find  in  the  romance  you  lent 
me,  that  none  of  the  great  heroes  was  ever  false  in 
love ').  But  the  objection  to  love  is  npt  merely  that  of 
Puritan  virtue  or  bourgeois  caution;  independence  is 
involved.  Because  love  puts  this  supreme  virtue  in 
danger  good  faith  is  there  most  of  all  necessary,  but 
because  of  '  love-betrayal-death  '  is  there  least  obtained. 

243 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

A  still  more  searching  point  is  made  in  dealing  with  the 
weaker  and  more  violent  Lucy. 

Lockit.  And  so  you  have  let  him  escape,  hussy— have  you  i 

Lucy.  When  a  woman  loves,  a  kind  word,  a  tender  look,  can 
persuade  her  to  anything,  and  I  could  ask  no  other  bribe.  [Love 
is  a  form  of  money,  as  contemptible  and  as  easy  to  cheat  with  as 
another.] 

Lockit.  Thou  wilt  always  be  a  vulgar  slut,  Lucy.  If  you  would 
not  be  looked  upon  as  a  fool,  you  should  never  do  anything 
but  upon  the  foot  of  interest.  Those  that  act  otherwise  are  their 
own  bubbles. 

Lucy.  But  love,  sir,  is  a  misfortune  that  may  happen  to  the 
most  discreet  woman,  and  in  love  we  are  all  fools  alike.  Not- 
withstanding all  that  he  swore,  I  am  now  fully  convinced  that 
Polly  Peachum  is  actually  his  wife.  Did  I  let  him  escape,  fool 
that  I  was !  to  go  to  her  ?  Polly  will  wheedle  herself  into  his 
money ;  and  then  Peachum  will  hang  him,  and  cheat  us  both. 

One  might  think  Independence  a  brutish  ideal  imposed 
by  a  false  intcllcctualism.  Lockit  makes  it  a  polite  social 
trick,  a  decent  hiding  of  the  reality,  to  pretend  that  one 
is  a  beast  of  prey.  It  is  from  a  social  criterion  that  Lucy 
is  told  to  be  anti-social  and  not  '  vulgar.*  You  may  call 
this  an  admission  that  the  ideal,  as  a  defence  of  selfishness, 
does  not  meet  the  facts  of  human  nature ;  the  joke  is 
that  as  a  cynicism  the  tiling  refutes  itself;  but  there  is  a 
joke  too  against  Lockit  and  the  conventions.  We  are 
left  with  an  acceptance  of  Egoist  ethical  theory.  And 
the  philosophical  joke  fits  naturally  onto  the  social  one ; 
only  the  rogue  or  the  aristocrat,  only  the  independent 
character,  can  afford  to  see  the  truth  about  the  matter. 

We  return  here  to  the  Scnccan  remark  of  Peachum : 
*  Of  all  beasts  of  prey,  mankind  is  the  only  sociable  one/ 
The  reason  for  the  breadth  of  this  remark,  its  wide  use 
for  a  cult  of  independence,  is  that  it  gives  two  contra- 
dictory adjectives  to  man.     One  cannot  reduce  it  to  a 

244 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

gangster  blow-the-gafF  sentiment,  implying  '  see  how 
tough  I  am.'  In  the  first  place  it  may  involve  an  appeal 
to  individualist  theory — *  all  actions  apparently  altruistic 
must  have  a  solid  basis  in  the  impulses  of  the  individual, 
and  only  so  can  be  understood.  They  can  only  be 
based  on  self-love,  because  the  individual  is  alone; 
there  is  merely  nothing  else  for  them  to  be  based  on. 
Only  by  facing  this,  by  understanding  the  needs  of 
the  individual,  can  society  be  made  safe.'  Secondly 
there  is  a  more  touching  and  less  analytic  idea — *  all 
life  is  too  painful  for  the  impulses  of  altruism  to  be 
possible.  To  refuse  to  accept  this  is  to  judge  your 
fellow  creatures  unjustly.'  That  man  should  be  made 
unique  in  this  way  is  indeed  a  boast  about  his  reason  and 
the  power  that  it  gives  to  be  independent ;  all  the  rami- 
fications of  irony  that  drive  home  and  generalise  this 
idea  relate  it  to  the  central  cult  of  the  man  who  can 
stand  alone.  Of  course  the  claim  to  be  such  a  man  is  as 
pathetic  in  a  Restoration  thief  as  a  Chicago  tough,  but 
the  play  makes  us  feel  that. 

For  there  is  no  doubt  about  the  sociability.  One  of 
the  most  terrible  of  these  comic  scenes  is  that  between 
Lucy  and  Polly,  one  attempting  murder,  the  other 
suspecting  it,  and  yet  each  finding  *  comfort '  in  each 
other's  company.  The  play  has  made  the  word  ready 
for  them  to  wring  the  last  ironies  from  it. 

Peachum.  But  make  haste  to  Newgate,  boy,  and  let  my  friends 
know  what  I  intend ;  for  I  love  to  make  them  easy,  one  way  or 
the  other. 

Filch.  When  a  gentleman  is  long  kept  in  suspense,  penitence 
may  break  his  spirit  ever  after.  Besides,  certainty  gives  a  man  a 
good  air  upon  his  trial,  and  makes  him  risk  another  without  fear 
or  scruple.  But  I'll  away,  for  'tis  a  pleasure  to  be  a  messenger  of 
comfort  to  friends  in  affliction. 

245 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Death  is  the  comfort,  for  most,  and  it  is  a  pleasure  to 
tell  them  of  it.  Polly  tells  her  mother  she  has  married 
for  love;  she  faints,  thinking  the  girl  had  been  better 
bred: 

Peachum.  See,  wench,  to  what  a  condition  you  have  reduced 
your  poor  mother !  A  glass  of  cordial  this  instant !  How  the 
poor  woman  takes  it  to  heart ! 

[Polly  goes  out,  and  returns  witli  it.] 

Ah  hussy,  now  this  is  the  only  comfort  your  mother  has  left. 

Polly.  Give  her  another  glass,  sir ;  my  mother  drinks  double 
the  quantity  whenever  she  is  out  of  order. 

When  she  isn't,  it  is  still  her  chief  comfort.  All  this 
leads  up  to  Lucy's  great  scene. 

Lucy.  ...  I  have  the  ratsbane  ready — I  run  no  risk ;  for  I 
can  lay  her  death  upon  the  gin,  and  so  many  die  of  that  naturally, 
that  I  shall  never  be  called  in  question.  But  say  I  were  to  be 
hanged — I  never  could  be  hanged  for  anything  that  would  give 
me  greater  comfort  than  the  poisoning  that  slut. 

Death  is  certain  anyhow,  and  its  name  is  hanging 
throughout  the  play. 

[Enter  Polly.] 

.  .  .  Dear  madam,  your  servant.    I  hope  you  will  pardon  my 

passion  when  I  was  so  happy  to  see  you  last — I  was  so  overrun 

with  the  spleen,  that  I  was  perfectly  out  of  myself;   and  really 

when  one  hath  the  spleen,  everything  is  to  be  excused  by  a  friend. 

The  spleen  is  aristocratic,  so  her  use  of  poison  is  also  to 

be  excused.    Their  faults  are  always  the  result  of  their 

greatness  of  soul. 

Lucy.  When  a  wife's  in  her  pout 

(As  she's  sometimes,  no  doubt) 
The  good  husband,  as  meek  as  a  lamb, 
Her  vapours  to  still, 
First  grants  her  her  will, 
And  the  quieting  draught  is  a  dram  ; 
Poor  man  !  and  the  quieting  draught  is  a  dram. 

246 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

I  wish  all  our  quarrels  might  have  so  comfortable  a  recon- 
ciliation. 

Polly.  I  have  no  excuse  for  my  own  behaviour,  madam,  but 
my  misfortunes — and  really,  madam,  I  suffer  too  upon  your 
account. 

Polly's  polite  claim  to  altruism,  whether  or  not  it  has 
a  sincerity  which  would  only  be  pathetic,  acts  as  an 
insult,  and  the  dram  ('  in  the  way  of  friendship  ')  is 
immediately  proposed.  Lucy  is  leading  up  to  the  poison 
in  the  song,  but  her  diplomacy  is  so  stylised  as  to  become 
a  comment  of  the  author's.  The  quieting  draught  is 
death ;  no  other  medicine  will  bring  peace  or  comfort 
to  so  restless  a  fragment  of  divinity.  It  is  also  alcohol ; 
peace  can  only  be  obtained  from  what  gives  further 
excitement,  because  simple  peace  is  not  attainable  in  the 
world.  Gin  alone,  however,  she  has  just  pointed  out,  is 
often  enough  quieting  in  the  fullest  sense,  and  the 
poetic  connection  between  death  and  intoxication  gives  -  ) 
a  vague  rich  memory  of  the  blood  of  the  sacrament  ^  i 
and  the  apocalyptic  wine  of  the  wrath  of  God. 

Poor  man.  He  is  a  martyr  to  the  fair,  so  that  his 
weaknesses  are  due  to  his  modish  greatness  of  spirit; 
when  a  man  takes  this  tone  about  himself  he  means 
that  he  considers  himself  very  successful  with  women, 
and  pays  them  out.  Lucy  is  boasting  of  the  strength 
of  the  spleen  as  a  weapon  against  him.  Poor  man, 
more  generally,  because  of  the  fundamental  human 
contradictions  that  are  displayed ;  he  is  a  beast  of  prey 
forced  to  be  sociable.  And  '  poor  marl,  in  the  end  he 
kills  her,  and  is  no  doubt  hanged ' — for  the  force  of 
and,  prominent  and  repeated,  is  to  make  giving  a  quieting 
draught  something  quite  different  from,  and  later  than, 
the  attempt  to  *  give  her  will ' — it  might  be  only  drink 

247 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

she  willed  for,  and  the  attempt  to  give  it  once  for  all 
was  anyway  hopeless.  The  comparison  of  the  dramatic 
and  condemned  thing — murder  by  poison — to  the  dull 
and  almost  universal  one — quieting  by  drink — is  used 
to  show  that  the  dramatic  incident  is  a  symbol  or  analysis 
of  something  universal.  Afterwards  (the  double  irony 
trick)  this  both  refutes  itself  and  insists  on  its  point 
more  suggestively  (appears  analysis  not  symbol)  by 
making  us  feel  that  the  dramatic  thing  is  itself  universal 
— the  good  meek  husband,  whether  by  poison  or  plain 
gin,  is  as  much  a  murderer  as  Lucy.  From  whatever 
cause  there  is  a  queer  note  of  triumph  in  the  line. 

The  attempted  murder  is  called  a  '  comfort '  chiefly 
because  it  is  no  more ;  to  kill  Polly  won't  get  her  back 
Macheath.  And  it  fails  because  she  finds  Polly  is  not 
happy  enough  to  deserve  it ;  at  the  crucial  moment 
Macheath  is  brought  back  in  chains.  There  is  no  more 
need  for  murder  in  Lucy,  because  Macheath  seems  to 
have  despised  Polly's  help,  and  anyway  is  separated 
from  her.  There  is  no  more  hope  of  *  comfort '  for 
Polly ;  she  tosses  gin  and  death  together  to  the  floor. 
So  both  women  arc  left  to  poison  his  last  moments. 
The  playwright  then  refuses  to  kill  Macheath,  from  the 
same  cheerful  piercing  contempt ;  he  is  not  dignified 
enough,  he  tells  the  audience,  *  though  you  think  he  is,' 
to  be  made  a  tragic  hero.  Lucy's  attempt  is  useless 
except  for  its  ill-nature,  which  makes  it  seem  a  *  typically 
human  '  and  therefore  pathetic  piece  of  folly ;  she  takes 
up  an  enthusiasm  for  murder  because  otherwise  she 
would  have  to  admit  the  facts  (winch  the  human 
creature  can  never  afford  to  do)  and  give  way  to  the 
*  spleen  '  and  despair — the  spleen  which  is  the  despair 
of  the   most   innocent   and   highly   refined   characters 

248 


THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA 

because  to  such  characters  this  existence  is  essentially 
inadequate.  Lucy's  comic  vanity  in  taking  this  tone 
(as  in  Macheath's  different  use  of  the  device)  is  dis- 
played only  to  be  justified ;  *  what  better  right  has 
anyone  else  to  it  ? ' ;  it  is  not  denied,  such  is  the  pathos 
of  the  effect,  that  the  refined  ladies  may  well  take  this 
tone,  but  they  must  not  think  it  a  specially  exalted  one. 
(To  the  Freudian,  indeed,  it  is  the  human  infant  to 
whose  desires  this  life  is  essentially  inadequate;  King 
Lear  found  a  mystical  pathos  in  the  fact  that  the  human 
infant,  alone  among  the  young  of  the  creatures,  is  subject 
to  impotent  fits  of  fury.)  It  is  this  clash  and  identifica- 
tion of  the  refined,  the  universal,  and  the  low  that  is 
the  whole  point  of  pastoral. 

For  the  final  meaning  of  this  play,  whose  glory  it  is 
to  give  itself  so  wholeheartedly  to  vulgarisation,  I  can 
only  list  a  few  approaches  to  its  irony.  *  I  feel  quite 
grateful  to  these  fools ;  they  make  me  feel  sure  I  am 
right  because  they  arc  so  obviously  wrong  '  (in  this 
hopeful  form  satire  is  widely  used  to  '  keep  people 
going  '  after  loss  of  faith) ;  *  having  got  so  far  towards 
sympathy  with  the  undermen,  non  ragipniam  di  lor,  lest 
we  come  down  to  the  ultima  ratio  '  (Voltaire  not  talking 
politics  to  his  valet) ;  *  one  can  sec  how  impossible  both 
the  thieves  and  the  politicians  pre  if  one  compares  them 
to  heroes  '  (the  polite  literary  assumption ;  the  pose  of 
detachment) ;  *  low  as  these  men  are,  the  old  heroes 
were  like  them,  and  one  may  well  feel  the  stronger 
for  them ;  life  was  never  dignified,  and  is  still  spirited.' 
(The  good  spirits  of  Fielding  making  a  Homeric  parody 
of  a  village  scuffle.)  *  The  old  heroes  were  much  more 
like  the  modern  thief  than  the  modern  aristocrat ;  the 
present  order  of  society  is  based  on  an  inversion  of  real 

249 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

values '  (Pope  sometimes  made  rather  fussy  local  satire 
out  of  this) ;  '  this  is  always  likely  to  happen ;  every- 
thing spiritual  and  valuable  has  a  gross  and  revolting 
parody,  very  similar  to  it,  with  same  name;  only 
unremitting  effort  can  distinguish  between  them ' 
(Swift) ;  *  this  always  happens ;  no  human  distinction 
between  high  and  low  can  be  accepted  for  a  moment; 
Christ  on  earch  found  no  fit  company  but  the  theives  ' 
(none  of  them  accepted  the  full  weight  of  the  anarchy 
of  this,  but  none  of  them  forgot  it ;  perhaps  the  mere 
easiness  of  Gay  makes  one  feel  it  in  him  most  easily). 
It  is  a  fine  thing  that  the  play  is  still  popular,  however 
stupidly  it  is  enjoyed. 


250 


Alice  in  Wonderland 

The  Child  as  Swain 


IT  must  seem  a  curious  thing  that  there  has  been  so 
little  serious  criticism  of  the  Alices,  and  that  so  many 
critics,  with  so  militant  and  eager  an  air  of  good  taste, 
have  explained  that  they  would  not  think  of  attempting 
it.  Even  Mr.  De  La  Mare's  book,  which  made  many 
good  points,  is  queerly  evasive  in  tone.  There  seems  to 
be  a  feeling  that  real  criticism  would  involve  psycho- 
analysis, and  that  the  results  would  be  so  improper  as 
to  destroy  the  atmosphere  of  the  books  altogether. 
Dodgson  was  too  conscious  a  writer  to  be  caught  out 
so  easily.  For  instance  it  is  an  obvious  bit  of  interpreta- 
tion to  say  that  the  Queen  of  Hearts  is  a  symbol  of 
*  uncontrolled  animal  passion  '  seen  through  the  clear 
but  blank  eyes  of  scxlessness ;  obvious,  and  the  sort  of 
thing  critics  are  now  so  sure  would  be  in  bad  taste; 
Dodgson  said  it  himself,  to  the  actress  who  took  the 
part  when  the  thing  was  acted.  The  books  are  so  frankly 
about  growing  up  that  there  is  no  great  discovery  in 
translating  them  into  Freudian  terms;  it  seems  only 
the  proper  exegesis  of  a  classic  even  where  it  would  be 
a  shock  to  the  author.  On  the  whole  the  results  of 
the  analysis,  when  put  into  drawing-room  language, 
are  his  conscious  opinions ;  and  if  there  was  no  other 
satisfactory  outlet  for  lus  feelings  but  the  special  one 
fixed  in  his  books  the  same  is  true  in  a  degree  of  any 
original  artist.  I  shall  use  psycho-analysis  where  it 
seems  relevant,  and  feel  I  had  better  begin  by  saying 
what  use  it  is  supposed  to  be.  Its  business  here  is  not 
to  discover  a  neurosis  peculiar  to  Dodgson.    The  essential 

253 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

idea  behind  the  books  is  a  shift  onto  the  child,  which 
Dodgson  did  not  invent,  of  the  obscure  tradition  of 
pastoral.  The  formula  is  now  *  c/ii/J-become-judge/ 
and  if  Dodgson  identifies  himself  with  the  child  so  does 
the  writer  of  the  primary  sort  of  pastoral  with  his 
magnified  version  of  the  swain.  (He  took  an  excellent 
photograph,  much  admired  by  Tennyson,  of  Alice 
Liddcll  as  a  ragged  beggar-girl,  which  seems  a  sort  of 
example  of  the  connection.)  I  should  say  indeed  that 
this  version  was  more  open  to  neurosis  than  the  older 
ones;  it  is  less  hopeful  and  more  a  return  into  oneself. 
The  analysis  should  show  how  this  works  in  general. 
But  there  are  other  things  to  be  said  about  such  a  version 
of  pastoral ;  its  use  of  the  device  prior  to  irony  lets  it 
make  covert  judgments  about  any  matter  the  author 
was  interested  in. 

There  is  a  tantalising  one  about  Darwinism.  The 
first  Neanderthal  skull  was  found  in  1856.  The  Origin 
of  Species  (1859)  came  out  six  years  before  Wonderland \ 
three  before  its  conception,  and  was  very  much  in  the 
air,  a  pervading  bad  smell.  It  is  hard  to  say  how  far 
Dodgson  under  cover  of  nonsense  was  using  ideas  of 
which  his  set  disapproved ;  he  wrote  some  hysterical 
passages  against  vivisection  and  has  a  curious  remark  to 
the  effect  that  chemistry  professors  had  better  not  have 
laboratories,  but  was  open  to  new  ideas  and  doubted 
the  eternity  of  hell.  The  i860  meeting  of  the  British 
Association,  at  winch  Huxley  started  Ins  career  as 
publicist  and  gave  that  resounding  snub  to  Bishop 
Wilbcrforcc,  was  held  at  Oxford  where  Dodgson  was 
already  in  residence.  He  had  met  Tennyson  in  '56,  and 
we  hear  of  Tennyson  lecturing  him  later  on  the  likeness 
of  monkeys'  and  men's  skulls. 

254 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

The  only  passage  that  I  feel  sure  involves  evolution 
comes  at  the  beginning  of  Wonderland  (the  most  spon- 
taneous and  *  subconscious '  part  of  the  books)  when 
Alice  gets  out  of  the  bath  of  tears  that  has  magically 
released  her  from  the  underground  chamber;  it  is 
made  clear  (for  instance  about  watering-places)  that  the 
salt  water  is  the  sea  from  which  life  arose ;  as  a  bodily 
product  it  is  also  the  amniotic  fluid  (there  arc  other 
forces  at  work  here) ;  ontogeny  then  repeats  phylogeny, 
and  a  whole  Noah's  Ark  gets  out  of  the  sea  with  her. 
In  Dodgson's  own  illustration  as  well  as  Tenniel's  there 
is  the  disturbing  head  of  a  monkey  and  in  the  text  there 
is  an  extinct  bird.  Our  minds  having  thus  been  forced 
back  onto  the  history  of  species  there  is  a  reading  of 
history  from  the  period  when  the  Mouse  *  came  over ' 
with  the  Conqueror ;  questions  of  race  turn  into  the 
questions  of  breeding  in  which  Dodgson  was  more 
frankly  interested,  and  there  are  obscure  snubs  for 
people  who  boast  about  their  ancestors.  We  then  have 
the  Caucus  Race  (the  word  had  associations  for  Dodgson 
with  local  politics ;  he  says  somewhere,  *  I  never  go  to 
a  Caucus  without  reluctance '),  in  which  you  begin 
running  when  you  like  and  leave  off  when  you  like, 
and  all  win.  The  subtlety  of  tins  is  that  it  supports 
Natural  Selection  (in  the  offensive  way  the  nineteenth 
century  did)  to  show  the  absurdity  of  democracy,  and 
supports  democracy  (or  at  any  rate  liberty)  to  show  the 
absurdity  of  Natural  Selection.  The  race  is  not  to  the 
swift  because  idealism  will  not  let  it  be  to  the  swift, 
and  because  life,  as  we  are  told  in  the' final  poem,  is  at 
random  and  a  dream.  But  there  is  no  weakening  of 
human  values  in  this  generosity;  all  the  animals  win, 
and  Alice  because  she  is  Man  has  therefore  to  give  them 

255 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

comfits,  but  though  they  demand  this  they  do  not  fail 
to  recognise  that  she  is  superior.  They  give  her  her  own 
elegant  thimble,  the  symbol  of  her  labour,  because  she 
too  has  won,  and  because  the  highest  among  you  shall 
be  the  servant  of  all.  This  is  a  solid  piece  of  symbolism ; 
the  politically  minded  scientists  preaching  progress 
through  *  selection  '  and  laissez-faire  are  confronted  with 
the  full  anarchy  of  Christ.  And  the  pretence  of  infantil- 
ism allows  it  a  certain  grim  honesty;  Alice  is  a  little 
ridiculous  and  discomfited,  under  cover  of  charm,  and 
would  prefer  a  more  aristocratic  system. 

In  the  Looking-Glass  too  there  arc  ideas  about  progress 
at  an  early  stage  of  the  journey  of  growing  up.  Alice 
goes  quickly  through  the  first  square  by  railway,  in  a 
carriage  full  of  animals  in  a  state  of  excitement  about 
the  progress  of  business  and  machinery;  the  only  man 
is  Disraeli  dressed  in  newspapers — the  new  man  who  gets 
on  by  self-advertisement,  the  newspaper-fed  man  who 
believes  in  progress,  possibly  even  the  rational  dress  of 
the  future. 

...  to  her  great  surprise,  they  all  thought  in  chorus  (I  hope  you 
understand  what  thinking  in  chorus  means — for  I  must  confess  that 
I  don't), '  Better  say  nothing  at  all.  Language  is  worth  a  thousand 
pounds  a  word.' 

'  I  shall  dream  of  a  thousand  pounds  to-night,  I  know  I  shall,' 
thought  Alice. 

All  this  time  the  Guard  was  looking  at  her,  first  through  a 
telescope,  then  through  a  microscope,  and  then  through  an  opera- 
glass.  At  last  he  said,  '  You're  travelling  the  wrong  way,  and 
shut  up  the  window  and  went  away. 

This  seems  to  be  a  prophecy ;  Huxley  in  the  Romanes 
lecture  of  1893,  and  less  clearly  beforehand,  said  that  the 
human  sense  of  right  must  judge  and  often  be  opposed 

256 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

to  the  progress  imposed  by  Nature,  but  at  this  time 
he  was  still  looking  through  the  glasses. 

But  the  gentleman  dressed  in  white  paper  leaned  forwards  and 
whispered  in  her  car,  '  Never  mind  what  they  all  say,  my  dear, 
but  take  a  return  ticket  every  time  the  train  stops.' 

In  1861  *  many  Tory  members  considered  that  the  prime 
minister  was  a  better  representative  of  conservative 
opinions  than  the  leader  of  the  opposition  '  (D.N.B.). 
This  seems  to  be  the  double  oudook  of  Disraeli's  con- 
servatism, too  subde  to  inspire  action.  I  think  he  turns 
up  again  as  the  unicorn  when  the  Lion  and  the  Unicorn 
are  fighting  for  the  Crown;  they  make  a  great  dust 
and  nuisance,  treat  the  commonsensc  Alice  as  entirely 
mythical,  and  are  very  frightening  to  the  poor  king 
to  whom  the  Crown  really  belongs. 

4  Indeed  I  shan't,'  Alice  said  rather  impatiently.  *  I  don't  belong 
to  this  railway  journey  at  all — I  was  in  a  wood  just  now — and 
I  wish  I  could  get  back  there  !  * 

When  she  gets  back  to  die  wood  it  is  different;    it  is 
Nature  in  the  raw,  with  no  names,  and  she  is  afraid  of 
it.     She  still  thinks  the  animals  are  right  to  stay  there; 
even   when   they   know   their  names   '  they   wouldn't 
answer  at  all,  if  they  were  wise.'     (They  might  do  well 
to  write  nonsense  books  under  an  assumed  name,  and 
refuse  to  answer  even  to  that.)    All  this  is  a  very  KafFka 
piece  of  symbolism,  less  at  case  than  the  preceding  one ; 
Wonderland  is  a  dream,  but  the  Looking-Glass  is  self- 
consciousness.    But  both  arc  topical ;   whether  you  call 
the  result  allegory  or  '  pure  nonsense     it  depends  on 
ideas  about  progress  and  industrialisation,  and  there  is 
room  for  exegesis  on  the  matter. 
The  beginning  of  modern  child-sentiment  may  be 

R  257 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

placed  at  the  obscure  edition  of  Mother  Goose  s  Melodies 
(John  Newbury,  1760),  with  *  maxims '  very  probably 
by  Goldsmith.  The  important  thing  is  not  the  rhymes 
(Boston  boasts  an  edition  of  1719.  My  impression  is 
that  they  improved  as  time  went  on)  but  the  appended 
maxims,  winch  take  a  sophisticated  pleasure  in  them. 
Most  arc  sensible  proverbs  which  the  child  had  better 
know  anyway;  their  charm  (mainly  for  the  adult) 
comes  from  die  unexpected  view  of  the  story  you  must 
take  if  they  are  not  to  be  irrelevant. 

Amphions  Sotig  of  Eurydice. 
I  won't  be  my  Father's  Jack, 
I  won't  be  my  Father's  Jill, 
I  won't  be  the  Fiddler's  Wife, 
And  I  will  have  music  when  I  will. 

T'other  little  Tune, 
T'other  little  Tune, 
Prithee  Love  play  me 
T'other  little  Tunc. 

Maxim. — Those  Arts  are  the  most  valuable  which  arc  of  the 
greatest  Use. 

It  seems  to  be  the  fiddler  whose  art  has  been  useful  in 
controlling  her,  but  then  again  she  may  have  discovered 
the  art  of  wheedling  the  fiddler.  The  pomp  of  the 
maxim  and  the  childishness  of  the  rhyme  make  a 
mock-pastoral  compound.  The  pleasure  in  children 
here  is  obviously  a  derivative  of  the  pleasure  in  Macheath ; 
the  children  are  '  little  rogues.' 

Bow  wow  wow 
Whose  dog  art  Thou  ? 
Little  Tom  Tinker's  Dog. 
Bow  wow  wow. 
Tom  Tinker's  Dog  is  a  very  good  Dog ;  and  an  honester  Dog 
than  his  Master. 

258 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

Honest  ('  free  from  hypocrisy '  or  the  patronising  tone 
to  a  social  inferior)  and  dog  (  you  young  dog ')  have 
their  Beggar 's  Opera  feelings  here;  it  is  not  even  clear 
whether  Tom  is  a  young  vagabond  or  a  child. 

This  is  a  pleasant  example  because  one  can  trace  the 
question  back.  Pope  engraved  a  couplet  *  on  the  collar 
of  a  dog  which  I  gave  to  His  Royal  Highness  '—a 
friendly  act  as  from  one  gentleman  to  another  resident 
in  the  neighbourhood. 

I  am  his  Highness'  dog  at  Kew. 
Pray  tell  me,  sir,  whose  dog  are  you  ? 

Presumably  Frederick  himself  would  be  the  first  to  read 
it.  The  joke  carries  a  certain  praise  for  the  underdog ; 
the  point  is  not  that  men  are  slaves  but  that  they  find 
it  suits  them  and  remain  good-humoured.  The  dog  is 
proud  of  being  the  prince's  dog  and  expects  no  one  to 
take  offence  at  the  question.  There  is  also  a  hearty 
independence  in  its  lack  of  respect  for  the  inquirer. 
Pope  took  this  from  Sir  William  Temple,  where  it  is 
said  by  a  fool :  *  I  am  the  Lord  Chamberlain's  fool. 
And  whose  are  you  ? '  was  Ins  answer  to  the  nobleman. 
It  is  a  neat  case  of  the  slow  shift  of  tins  sentiment  from 
fool  to  rogue  to  child. 

Alice,  I  think,  is  more  of  a  *  little  rogue  '  than  it  is  usual 
to  say,  or  than  Dodgson  himself  thought  in  later  years : 

loving  as  a  dog  .  .  .  and  gentle  as  a  fawn ;  then  courteous, — 
courteous  to  a//,  high  or  low,  grand  or  gtotesque,  King  or 
Caterpillar  .  .  .  trustful,  with  an  absolute  trust.  .  .  . 

and  so  on.  It  depends  what  you  expect  of  a  child  of 
seven. 

.  .  .  she  had  quite  a  long  argument  with  the  Lory,  who  at  last 
turned  sulky,  and  would  only  say,  4 1  am  older  than  you,  and 

^59 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

must  know  better  * ;  and  this  Alice  would  not  allow  without 
knowing  how  old  it  was,  and  as  the  Lory  positively  refused  to 
tell  its  age,  there  was  no  more  to  be  said. 

Alice  had  to  be  made  to  speak  up  to  bring  out  the 
points — here  the  point  is  a  sense  of  the  fundamental 
oddity  of  life  given  by  the  fact  that  different  animals 
become  grown-up  at  different  ages;  but  still  if  you 
accept  the  Lory  as  a  grown-up  this  is  rather  a  pert 
child.    She  is  often  the  underdog  speaking  up  for  itself. 

A  quite  separate  feeling  about  children,  which  is  yet 
at  the  back  of  the  pertness  here  and  in  the  Goldsmith, 
since  it  is  needed  if  the  pertness  is  to  be  charming,  may 
be  seen  in  its  clearest  form  in  Wordsworth  and  Cole- 
ridge ;  it  is  the  whole  point  of  the  Ode  to  Intimations 
and  even  of  We  are  Seven.  The  child  has  not  yet  been 
put  wrong  by  civilisation,  and  all  grown-ups  have 
been.  It  may  well  be  true  that  Dodgson  envied  the 
child  because  it  was  sexless,  and  Wordsworth  because 
he  knew  that  he  was  destroying  his  native  poetry  by 
the  smugness  of  his  life,  but  neither  theory  explains 
why  this  feeling  about  children  arose  when  it  did  and 
became  so  general.  There  is  much  of  it  in  Vaughan 
after  the  Civil  War,  but  as  a  general  tendency  it  appeared 
when  the  eighteenth-century  settlement  had  come  to 
seem  narrow  and  unescapable ;  one  might  connect  it 
with  the  end  of  duelling ;  also  when  the  scientific  sort 
of  truth  had  been  generally  accepted  as  the  main  and 
real  one.  It  strengthened  as  the  aristocracy  became 
more  puritan.  It  depends  on  a  feeling,  whatever  may 
have  caused  that  in  its  turn,  that  no  way  of  building 
up  character,  no  intellectual  system,  can  bring  out  all 
that  is  inherent  in  the  human  spirit,  and  therefore  that 
there  is  more  in  the  child  than  any  man  has  been  able 

260 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

to  keep.  (The  child  is  a  microcosm  like  Donne's  world, 
and  Alice  too  is  a  stoic.)  This  runs  through  all  Victorian 
and  Romantic  literature ;  the  world  of  die  adult  made 
it  hard  to  be  an  artist,  and  they  kept  a  sort  of  tap-root 
going  down  to  their  experience  as  children.  Artists 
like  Wordsworth  and  Coleridge,  who  accepted  this  fact 
and  used  it,  naturally  come  to  seem  the  most  interesting 
and  in  a  way  the  most  sincere  writers  of  the  period. 
Their  idea  of  the  child,  that  it  is  in  the  right  relation 
to  Nature,  not  dividing  what  should  be  unified,  that 
its  intuitive  judgment  contains  what  poetry  and  philo- 
sophy must  spend  their  time  labouring  to  recover, 
was  accepted  by  Dodgson  and  a  main  part  of  his  feeling. 
He  quotes  Wordsworth  on  this  point  in  the  4  Easter 
Greeting  '-—the  child  feels  its  life  in  every  limb  ;  Dodgson 
advises  it,  with  an  infelicitous  memory  of  the  original 
poem,  to  give  its  attention  to  death  from  time  to  time. 
That  the  dream  books  are 

Like  Pilgrim's  withered  wreaths  of  flowers 
Plucked  in  a  far-off  land 

is  a  fine  expression  of  Wordsworth's  sense  both  of 
the  poetry  of  childhood  and  of  his  advancing  sterility. 
And  the  moment  when  she  fmds  herself  dancing  with 
Tweedledum  and  Tweedledee,  so  that  it  is  difficult  to 
introduce  herself  afterwards,  is  a  successful  interruption 
of  Wordsworthian  sentiment  into  his  normal  style. 

.  .  .  she  took  hold  of  both  hands  at  once ;  the  next  moment 
they  were  dancing  round  in  a  ring.  This  seemed  quite  natural 
(she  remembered  afterwards),  and  she  was  nbt  even  surprised  to 
hear  music  playing :  it  seemed  to  come  from  the  tree  under 
which  they  were  dancing,  and  it  was  done  (as  well  as  she  could 
make  out)  by  the  branches  rubbing  one  against  another,  like 
fiddles  and  fiddle-sticks.  .  .  .  4 1  don't  know  when  I  began  it, 
but  somehow  I  felt  as  if  I  had  been  singing  it  a  long  long  time.* 

26l 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

This  is  presented  as  like  the  odd  behaviour  of  comic 
objects  such  as  soup- tureens,  but  it  is  a  directer  version 
of  the  idea  of  the  child's  unity  with  nature.  She  has 
been  singing  a  long  long  time  because  she  sang  with 
no  temporal  limits  in  that  imperial  palace  whence  she 
came.  Yet  it  is  the  frank  selfishness  of  the  brothers, 
who  being  little  boys  are  horrid,  are  made  into  a  satire 
on  war,  and  will  only  give  her  the  hands  free  from 
hugging  each  other,  that  forces  her  into  the  ring  with 
them  th«',t  produces  eternity.  Even  here  this  puts  a 
subtle  doubt  into  the  eternities  open  to  the  child. 

For  Dodgson  will  only  go  half-way  with  the  sentiment 
of  the  child's  unity  with  nature,  and  has  another  purpose 
for  his  heroine ;  she  is  the  free  and  independent  mind. 
Not  that  this  is  contradictory;  because  she  is  right 
about  life  she  is  independent  from  all  the  other  char- 
acters who  are  wrong.  But  it  is  important  to  him  because 
it  enables  him  to  clash  the  Wordsworth  sentiments  with 
the  other  main  tradition  about  children  derived  from 
rogue-sentiment.  (For  both,  no  doubt,  he  had  to  go 
some  way  back;  the  intervening  sentiment  about 
children  is  that  the  great  thing  is  to  repress  their  Original 
Sin,  and  I  suppose,  though  he  would  not  have  much 
liked  it,  he  was  among  the  obscure  influences  that  led 
to  the  cult  of  games  in  the  public  schools.) 

One  might  say  that  the  Alices  differ  from  other 
versions  of  pastoral  in  lacking  the  sense  of  glory.  Norm- 
ally the  idea  of  including  all  sorts  of  men  in  yourself 
brings  in  an  idea  of  reconciling  yourself  with  nature 
and  therefore  gaining  power  over  it.  The  Alices  are 
more  self-protective ;  the  dream  cuts  out  the  real  world 
and  the  delicacy  of  the  mood  is  felt  to  cut  out  the  lower 
classes.    This  is  true  enough,  but  when  Humpty  Dumpty 

262 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

says  that  glory  means  a  nice  knock-down  argument  he 
is  not  far  from  the  central  feeling  of  the  book.  There 
is  a  real  feeling  of  isolation  and  yet  just  that  is  taken 
as  the  source  of  power. 

The  obvious  parody  of  Wordsworth  is  the  poem  of 
the  White  Knight,  an  important  figure  for  whom 
Dodgson  is  willing  to  break  the  language  of  humour 
into  the  language  of  sentiment.  It  takes  off  Resolution 
and  Independence,  a  genuine  pastoral  poem  if  ever  rV  . . 
was  one;  the  endurance  of  the  lecchgatherer  ^ives 
Wordsworth  strength  to  face  the  pain  of  the  woJd. 
Dodgson  was  fond  of  saying  that  one  parodied  the  best 
poems,  or  anyway  that  parody  showed  no  lack  of 
admiration,  but  a  certain  bitterness  is  inherent  in  parody ; 
if  the  meaning  is  not  *  This  poem  is  absurd  '  it  must  be 
*  In  my  present  mood  of  emotional  sterility  the  poem 
will  not  work,  or  I  am  afraid  to  let  it  work,  on  me* 
The  parody  here  will  have  no  truck  with  the  dignity 
of  the  lecchgatherer,  but  the  point  of  that  is  to  make 
the  unworldly  dreaminess  of  the  Knight  more  absurd ; 
there  may  even  be  a  reproach  for  Wordsworth  in  the 
lack  of  consideration  that  makes  him  go  on  asking 
the  same  question.  One  feels  that  the  Knight  has 
probably  imagined  most  of  the  old  man's  answers,  or 
anyway  that  the  old  man  was  playing  up  to  the  fool 
who  questioned  him.  At  any  rate  there  is  a  complete 
shift  of  interest  from  the  virtues  of  the  lecchgatherer 
onto  the  childish  but  profound  virtues  of  his  questioner. 

The  main  basis  of  the  joke  is  the  idea  of  absurd  inven- 
tions of  new  foods.  Dodgson  was  well-informed  about 
food,  kept  his  old  menus  and  was  wine-taster  to  the 
College;  but  ate  very  little,  suspected  the  High  Table 
of  overeating,  and  would  see  no  reason  to  deny  that  he 

263 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

connected  overeating  with  other  forms  of  sensuality. 
One  reason  for  the  importance  of  rich  food  here  is  that 
it  is  the  child's  symbol  for  all  luxuries  reserved  for 
grown-ups.  I  take  it  that  the  fascination  of  Soup  and 
of  the  Mock  Turtle  who  sings  about  it  was  that  soup  is 
mainly  eaten  at  dinner,  the  excitingly  grown-up  meal 
eaten  after  the  child  has  gone  to  bed.  When  Alice  talks 
about  her  dinner  she  presumably  means  lunch,  and  it  is 
rather  a  boast  when  she  says  she  has  already  met  whiting. 
In  the  White  Knight's  song  and  conversation  these  little 
jokes  based  on  fear  of  sensuality  are  put  to  a  further  use ; 
he  becomes  the  scientist,  the  inventor,  whose  mind  is 
nobly  but  absurdly  detached  from  interest  in  the  pleasures 
of  the  senses  and  even  from  *  good  sense.' 

*  How  can  you  go  on  talking  so  quietly,  head  downwards  i ' 
Alice  asked,  as  she  dragged  him  out  by  the  feet,  and  laid  him  in 
a  heap  on  the  bank. 

The  Knight  looked  surprised  at  the  question.  *  What  does  it 
matter  where  my  body  happens  to  be  ? '  he  said.  '  My  mind  goes 
on  working  all  the  same.  In  fact,  the  more  head  downwards  I 
am,  the  more  I  keep  inventing  new  things.' 

'  Now  the  cleverest  thing  that  I  ever  did,'  he  went  on  after  a 
pause,  '  was  inventing  a  new  pudding  during  the  meat-course.' 

This  required  extreme  detachment ;  the  word  *  clever  ' 
has  become  a  signal  that  the  mind  is  being  admired  for 
such  a  reason.  The  more  absurd  the  assumptions  of  the 
thinking,  for  instance  those  of  scientific  materialism,  the 
more  vigorous  the  thought  based  upon  it.  '  Life  is  so 
strange  that  his  results  have  the  more  chance  of  being 
valuable  because  his  assumptions  are  absurd,  but  we  must 
not  forget  that  they  are  so.'  This  indeed  is  as  near  the 
truth  as  one  need  get  about  scientific  determinism. 

One  reason  for  the  moral  grandeur  of  the  Knight, 
then,  is  that  he  stands  for  the  Victorian  scientist,  who  was 

264 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

felt  to  have  invented  a  new  kind  of  Roman  virtue; 
earnesdy,  patiendy,  carefully  (it  annoyed  Samuel  Buder 
to  have  these  words  used  so  continually  about  scientists) 
without  sensuality,  without  self-seeking,  without  claim- 
ing any  but  a  fragment  of  knowledge,  he  goes  on 
labouring  at  his  absurd  but  fruitful  conceptions.  But  the 
parody  makes  him  stand  also  for  the  poet,  and  Words- 
worth would  have  been  pleased  by  this ;  he  considered 
that  the  poet  was  essentially  one  who  revived  our  sense 
of  the  original  facts  of  nature,  and  should  use  scientific 
ideas  where  he  could ;  poetry  was  the  impassioned 
expression  of  the  face  of  all  science ;  Wordsworth  was 
as  successful  in  putting  life  into  the  abstract  words  of 
science  as  into  *  the  plain  language  of  men,'  and  many 
of  the  Lyrical  Ballads  arc  best  understood  as  psychological 
notes  written  in  a  form  that  saves  one  from  forgetting 
their  actuality.  The  Knight  has  the  same  readiness  to 
accept  new  ideas  and  ways  of  life,  such  as  the  sciences 
were  imposing,  without  ceasing  to  be  good  and  in  his 
way  sensible,  as  Alice  herself  shows  for  instance  when  in 
falling  down  the  rabbit-hole  she  plans  a  polite  entry  into 
the  Antipodes  and  is  careful  not  to  drop  the  marmalade 
onto  the  inhabitants.  It  is  the  childishness  of  the  Knight 
that  lets  him  combine  the  virtues  of  the  poet  and  the 
scientist,  and  one  must  expect  a  creature  so  finely  suited 
to  life  to  be  absurd  because  life  itself  is  absurd. 

The  talking  animal  convention  and  the  changes  of 
relative  size  appear  in  so  different  a  children's  book  as 
Gulliver;  they  evidently  make  some,  direct  appeal  to 
the  child  whatever  more  sophisticated  ideas  arc  piled 
onto  then  .  Children  feel  at  home  with  animals  con- 
ceived as  human ;  the  animal  can  be  made  affectionate 
without  its  making  serious  emotional  demands  on  them, 

265 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

docs  not  want  to  educate  them,  is  at  least  unconventional 
in  the  sense  that  it  docs  not  impose  its  conventions,  and 
does  not  make  a  secret  of  the  processes  of  nature.  So  the 
talking  animals  here  are  a  child-world ;  the  rule  about 
them  is  that  they  are  always  friendly  though  childishly 
frank  to  Alice  while  she  is  small,  and  when  she  is  big 
(suggesting  grown-up)  always  opposed  to  her,  or  by 
her,  or  both.  But  talking  animals  in  children's  books 
had  been  turned  to  didactic  purposes  ever  since  Aesop ; 
the  schoolmastering  tone  in  which  the  animals  talk 
nonsense  to  Alice  is  partly  a  parody  of  this — they  are 
really  childish  but  try  not  to  look  it.  On  the  other  hand, 
this  tone  is  so  supported  by  the  way  they  can  order  her 
about,  the  firm  and  surprising  way  their  minds  work, 
the  abstract  topics  they  work  on,  the  useless  rules  they 
accept  with  so  much  conviction,  that  we  take  them  as  real 
grown-ups  contrasted  with  unsophisticated  childhood. 
y  *  The  grown-up  world  is  as  odd  as  the  child-world, 
and  both  are  a  dream/  This  ambivalence  seems  to 
correspond  to  Dodgson's  own  attitude  to  children ;  he, 
like  Alice,  *  'anted  to  get  the  advantages  of  being  childish 
and  grow  i  up  at  once.  In  real  life  this  seems  to  have  at 
least  occasional  disadvantages  both  ways ;  one  re- 
members the  little  girl  who  screamed  and  demanded 
to  be  taken  from  the  lunch-table  because  she  knew  she 
couldn't  solve  his  puzzles  (not,  apparently,  a  usual,  but  one 
would  think  a  natural  reaction  to  his  mode  of  approach) 
— she  clearly  thought  him  too  grown-up ;  whereas 
in  the  scenes  of  jealousy  with  his  little  girls'  parents  the 
grown-ups  must  have  thought  him  quite  enough  of  a 
child.  He  made  a  success  of  the  process,  and  it  seems 
clear  that  it  did  none  of  the  little  girls  any  harm,  but  one 
cannot  help  cocking  one's  eye  at  it  as  a  way  of  life. 

266 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

The  changes  of  size  are  more  complex.  In  Gulliver 
they  arc  the  impersonal  eye ;  to  change  size  and  nothing 
else  makes  you  feel  *  this  makes  one  see  things  as  they 
are  in  themselves/  It  excites  Wonder  but  of  a  scientific 
sort.  Swift  used  it  for  satire  on  science  or  from  a  horrified 
interest  in  it,  and  to  give  a  sort  of  scientific  authority 
to  his  deductions,  that  men  seen  as  small  are  spiritually 
petty  and  seen  as  large  physically  loathsome.  And  it 
is  the  small  observer,  like  the  child,  who  docs  least  to 
alter  what  he  sees  and  therefore  sees  most  truly.  (The 
definition  of  poiential,  in  all  but  the  most  rigid  text- 
books of  electricity,  contents  itself  with  talking  about 
the  force  on  a  small  charge  which  doesn't  alter  the  field 
much.  The  objection  that  the  small  alteration  in  the 
field  might  be  proportional  to  the  small  force  does  not 
occur  easily  to  the  reader.)  To  mix  this  with  a  pious 
child's  type  of  Wonder  made  science  seem  less  irreligious 
and  gave  you  a  feeling  that  you  were  being  good  because 
educating  a  child;  Faraday's  talks  for  children  on  the 
chemical  history  of  a  candle  came  out  in  1861,  so  the 
method  was  in  the  air.  But  these  are  special  uses  of  a 
material  rich  in  itself.  Cliildren  like  to  think  of  being 
s,o  small  that  they  could  hide  from  grown-ups  and  so 
big  that  they  could  control  them,  and  to  do  this  drama- 
tises the  great  topic  of  growing  up,  which  both  Alices 
keep  to  consistently.  In  the  same  way  the  charm  of 
Jabberwocky  is  that  it  is  a  code  language,  the  language 
with  winch  grown-ups  hide  things  from  children  or 
children  from  grown-ups.  Also  the  words  are  such 
good  tongue-gestures,  in  Sir  Richard  Pagct's  phrase, 
that  diey  seem  to  carry  their  own  meaning;  this 
carries  a  hint  of  the  paradox  that  the  conventions  are 
natural. 

267 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Both  books  also  keep  to  the  topic  of  death — the  first 
two  jokes  about  death  in  Wonderland  come  on  pages 
3  and  4 — and  for  the  child  this  may  be  a  natural  connec- 
tion ;  I  remember  believing  I  should  have  to  die  before 
I  grew  up,  and  thinking  the  prospect  very  disagreeable. 
There  seems  to  be  a  connection  in  Dodgson's  mind 
between  the  death  of  childhood  and  the  development 
of  sex,  which  might  be  pursued  into  many  of  the  details 
of  the  books.  Alice  will  die  if  the  Red  King  wakes  up, 
partly  because  she  is  a  dream-product  of  the  author  and 
partly  because  the  pawn  is  put  back  in  its  box  at  the  end 
of  the  game.  He  is  the  absent  husband  of  the  Red 
Queen  who  is  a  governess,  and  the  end  of  the  book 
comes  when  Alice  defeats  the  Red  Queen  and  *  mates  * 
the  King.  Everything  seems  to  break  up  because  she 
arrives  at  a  piece  of  knowledge,  that  all  the  poems  are 
about  fish.  I  should  say  the  idea  was  somehow  at  work 
at  the  end  of  Wonderland  too.  The  trial  is  meant  to  be 
a  mystery ;  Alice  is  told  to  leave  the  court,  as  if  a  child 
ought  not  to  hear  the  evidence,  and  yet  they  expect  her 
to  give  evidence  herself. 

*  What  do  you  know  about  this  business  ? '  the  King  said  to 
Alice. 

4  Nothing,'  said  Alice. 

'  Nothing  whatever  ? '  persisted  the  King. 

1  Nothing  whatever/  said  Alice. 

4  That's  very  important,*  the  King  said,  turning  to  the  jury. 
They  were  just  beginning  to  write  this  down  on  their  slates, 
when  the  White  Rabbit  interrupted :  '  l/mmportant,  your 
Majesty  means,  of  course,'  he  said  in  a  very  respectful  tone,  but 
frowning  and  making  faces  as  ho  spoke. 

4  C/mmportant,  of  course,  I  meant,'  the  King  hastily  said,  and 
went  on  to  himself  in  an  undertone,  *  important— unimportant — 
unimportant — important — '  as  if  he  were  trying  which  word 
sounded  best. 

268 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

There  is  no  such  stress  in  the  passage  as  would  make  one 
feel  there  must  be  something  behind  it,  and  certainly  it 
is  funny  enough  as  it  stands.  But  I  think  Dodgson  felt 
it  was  important  that  Alice  should  be  innocent  of  all 
knowledge  of  what  the  Knave  of  Hearts  (a  flashy-looking 
lady's-man  in  the  picture)  is  likely  to  have  been  doing, 
and  also  important  that  she  should  not  be  told  she  is 
innocent.  That  is  why  the  king,  always  a  well-inten- 
tioned man,  is  embarrassed.  At  the  same  time  Dodgson 
feels  that  Alice  is  right  in  thinking  *  it  doesn't  matter  a 
bit '  which  word  the  jury  write  down ;  she  is  too  stable 
in  her  detachment  to  be  embarrassed,  these  things  will 
not  interest  her,  and  in  a  way  she  includes  them  all  in 
herself.  And  it  is  the  refusal  to  let  her  stay  that  makes 
her  revolt  and  break  the  dream.  It  is  tempting  to  read 
an  example  of  tliis  idea  into  the  poem  that  introduces 
the  Looking-Glass. 

Come,  hearken  then,  ere  voice  of  dread, 

With  bitter  summons  laden, 
Shall  summon  to  unwelcome  bed 

A  melancholy  maiden. 

After  all  the  marriage-bed  was  more  likely  to  be  the  end 
of  the  maiden  than  the  grave,  and  the  metaphor  firmly 
implied  treats  them  as  identical. 

The  last  example  is  obviously  more  a  joke  against 
Dodgson  than  anything  else,  and  though  the  connection 
between  death  and  the  development  of  sex  is  I  think 
at  work  it  is  not  the  main  point  of  the  conflict  about 
growing  up.  Alice  is  given  a  magical  control  over  her 
growth  by  the  traditionally  symbolic  caterpillar,  a 
creature  which  has  to  go  through  a  sort  of  death  to 
become  grown-up,  and  then  seems  a  more  spiritual 
creature.    It  refuses  to  agree  with  Alice  that  this  process 

269 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

is  at  all  peculiar,  and  clearly  her  own  life  will  be  somehow 
like  it,  but  the  main  idea  is  not  its  development  of  sex. 
The  butterfly  implied  may  be  the  girl  when  she  is  *  out ' 
or  her  soul  when  in  heaven,  to  which  she  is  now  nearer 
than  she  will  be  when  she  is  *  out ' ;  she  must  walk  to 
it  by  walking  away  from  it.  Alice  knows  several 
reasons  why  she  should  object  to  growing  up,  and  does 
not  at  all  like  being  an  obvious  angel,  a  head  out  of 
contact  with  its  body  that  has  to  come  down  from  the 
sky,  and  gets  mistaken  for  the  Paradisal  serpent  of  the 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  and  by  the  pigeon  of  the 
Annunciation,  too.  But  she  only  makes  herself  smaller 
for  reasons  of  tact  or  proportion ;  the  triumphant  close 
of  Wonderland  is  that  she  has  outgrown  her  fancies  and 
can  afford  to  wake  and  despise  them.  The  Looking- 
Glass  is  less  of  a  dream-product,  less  concentrated  on 
the  child's  situation,  and  (once  started)  less  full  of  changes 
of  size ;  but  it  has  the  same  end ;  the  governess  shrinks 
to  a  kitten  when  Alice  has  grown  from  a  pawn  to  a 
queen,  and  can  shake  her.  Both  these  clearly  stand  for 
becoming  grown-up  and  yet  in  part  arc  a  revolt  against 
grown-up  behaviour;  there  is  the  same  ambivalence 
as  about  the  talking  animals.  Whether  children  often 
lind  this  symbolism  as  interesting  as  Carroll  did  is 
another  tiling ;  there  are  recorded  cases  of  tears  at  such 
a  betrayal  of  the  reality  of  the  story.  I  remember 
feeling  that  the  ends  of  the  books  were  a  sort  of  necessary 
assertion  that  the  grown-up  world  was  after  all  the 
proper  one ;  one  did  not  object  to  that  in  principle,  but 
would  no  more  turn  to  those  parts  from  preference 
than  to  the  *  Easter  Greeting  to  Every  Child  that  Loves 
Alice '  (Gothic  type). 
To  make  the  dream-story  from  winch    Wonderland 

270 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

was  elaborated  seem  Freudian  one  has  only  to  tell  it. 
A  fall  through  a  deep  hole  into  the  secrets  of  Mother 
Earth  produces  a  new  enclosed  soul  wondering  who  it 
is,  what  will  be  its  position  in  the  world,  and  how  it 
can  get  out.  It  is  in  a  long  low  hall,  part  of  the  palace 
of  the  Queen  of  Hearts  (a  neat  touch),  from  which  it 
can  only  get  out  to  the  fresh  air  and  the  fountains  through 
a  hole  frighteningly  too  small.  Strange  changes,  caused 
by  the  way  it  is  nourished  there,  happen  to  it  in  this 
place,  but  always  when  it  is  big  it  cannot  get  out  and 
when  it  is  small  it  is  not  allowed  to ;  for  one  thing,  being 
a  little  girl,  it  has  no  key.  The  nightmare  theme  of  the 
birth-trauma,  that  she  grows  too  big  for  the  room  and 
is  almost  crushed  by  it,  is  not  only  used  here  but  repeated 
more  painfully  after  she  seems  to  have  got  out;  the 
rabbit  sends  her  sternly  into  its  house  and  some  food  there 
makes  her  grow  again.  In  Dodgson's  own  drawing  of 
Alice  when  cramped  into  the  room  with  one  foot  up 
the  chimney,  kicking  out  the  hateful  thing  that  tries  to 
come  down  (she  takes  away  its  pencil  when  it  is  a  juror), 
she  is  much  more  obviously  in  the  foetus  position  than 
in  Tenniel's.  The  White  Rabbit  is  Mr.  Spooner  to 
whom  the  spoonerisms  happened,  an  undergraduate 
in  1862,  but  its  business  here  is  as  a  pet  jfor  children 
which  diey  may  be  allowed  to  breed.  Not  that  the 
clearness  of  the  framework  makes  the  interpretation 
simple ;  Alice  peering  through  the  hole  into  the  garden 
may  be  wanting  a  return  to  the  womb  as  well  as  an 
escape  from  it ;  she  is  fond,  we  are  tpld,  of  taking  both 
sides  of  an  argument  when  talking  to  herself,  and  the 
whole  book  balances  between  the  luscious  nonsense- 
world  of  fantasy  and  the  ironic  nonsense-world  of  fact. 
I  said  that  the  sea  of  tears  she  swims  in  was  the  amniotic 

271 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

fluid,  which  is  much  too  simple.    You  may  take  it  as 
Lcthc  in  which  the  souls  were  bathed  before  re-birth 
(and  it  is  their  own  tears ;  they  forget,  as  we  forget  our 
childhood,  through  the  repression  of  pain)  or  as  the 
*  solution '    of   an    intellectual    contradiction    through 
Intuition  and  a  return  to  die  Unconscious.    Anyway  it 
is  a  sordid  image  made  pretty;    one  need  not  read 
Dodgson's  satirical  verses  against  babies  to  see  how  much 
he  would  dislike  a  child  wallowing  in  its  tears  in  real 
life.    The  fondness  of  small  girls  for  doing  diis  has  to  be 
faced   early  in  attempting   to  prefer  them,  possibly  to 
small  boys,  certainly  to  grown-ups ;   to  a  man  idealising 
children  as  free  from  the  falsity  of  a  rich  emotional  life 
their  displays  of  emotion  must  be  particularly  discon- 
certing.   The  celibate  may  be  forced  to  observe  them, 
on  the  floor  of  a  railway  carriage  for  example,  after  a 
storm  of  fury,  dabbling  in  their  ooze ;  covertly  snuggling 
against  mamma  while  each  still  pretends  to  ignore  the 
other.    The  symbolic  pleasure  of  dabbling  seems  based 
on  an  idea  that  the  liquid  itself  is  the  bad  temper  which 
they  have  got  rid  of  by  the  storm  and  yet  are  still  hugging, 
or  that  they  are  not  quite  impotent  since  they  have  at 
least  *  done '  this  much  about  the  situation.     The  acid 
quality  of  the  style  shows  that  Dodgson  docs  not  entirely 
like  having  to  love  creatures  whose  narcissism  takes  tins 
form,  but  he  does  not  want  simply  to  forget  it  as  he  too 
would  like  a  relief  from  '  ill-temper  ' ;    he  sterilises  it 
from  the  start  by  giving  it  a  charming  myth.    The  love 
for  narcissists  itself  seems  mainly  based  on  a  desire  to 
keep   oneself  safely   detached,    which   is   the   essential 
notion  here. 

The  symbolic  completeness  of  Alice's  experience  is 
I  think  important.     She  runs  the  whole  gamut;   she  is 

272  , 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

a  father  in  getting  down  the  hole,  a  foetus  at  the  bottom, 
and  can  only  be  born  by  becoming  a  mother  and  pro- 
ducing her  own  amniotic  fluid.  Whether  his  mind 
played  the  trick  of  putting  this  into  the  story  or  not  he 
has  the  feelings  that  would  correspond  to  it.  A  desire 
to  include  all  sexuality  in  the  girl  child,  the  least  obviously 
sexed  of  human  creatures,  the  one  that  keeps  its  sex  in 
the  safest  place,  was  an  important  part  of  their  fascination 
for  him.  He  is  partly  imagining  himself  as  the  girl-child 
(with  diese  comforting  characteristics)  partly  as  its  father 
(these  together  make  it  a  father)  partly  as  its  lover — 
so  it  might  be  a  mother — but  then  of  course  it  is  clever 
and  detached  enough  to  do  everything  for  itself.  He 
told  one  of  his  little  girls  a  story  about  cats  wearing 
gloves  over  their  claws :  *  For  you  see,  "  gloves  "  have 
got  "  love  "  inside  them — there's  none  outside,  you 
know.'  So  far  from  its  dependence,  the  child's  inde- 
pendence is  the  important  tiling,  and  the  theme  behind 
that  is  the  self-centred  emotional  life  imposed  by  the 
detached  intelligence. 

The  famous  cat  is  a  very  direct  symbol  of  this  ideal  of 
intellectual  detachment;  all  cats  are  detached,  and  since 
this  one  grins  it  is  the  amused  observer.  It  can  disappear 
because  it  can  abstract  itself  from  its  surroundings  into 
a  more  interesting  inner  world ;  it  appears  only  as  a  head 
because  it  is  almost  a  disembodied  intelligence,  and  only 
as  a  grin  because  it  can  impose  an  atmosphere  without 
being  present.  In  frightening  the  king  by  the  allowable 
act  of  looking  at  him  it  displays  the  soul-force  of  Mr. 
Gandhi;  it  is  unbeheadable  because  its  soul  cannot  be 
killed;  and  its  influence  brings  about  a  short  amnesty 
in  the  divided  nature  of  the  Queen  and  Duchess.  Its 
cleverness  makes  it  formidable — it  has  very  long  claws 

s  273 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

and  a  great  many  teeth— but  Alice  is  particularly  at 
home  with  it ;  she  is  the  same  sort  of  thing. 

The  Gnat  gives  a  more  touching  picture  of  Dodgson ; 
he  treats  nowhere  more  directly  of  his  actual  relations 
with  the  child.  He  feels  he  is  liable  to  nag  at  it,  as  a 
gnat  would,  and  the  gnat  turns  out,  as  he  is,  to  be 
alarmingly  big  as  a  friend  for  the  child,  but  at  first  it 
sounds  tiny  because  he  means  so  little  to  her.  It  tries 
to  amuse  her  by  rather  frightening  accounts  of  other 
dangerous  insects,  other  grown-ups.  It  is  reduced  to 
tears  by  the  melancholy  of  its  own  jokes,  which  it 
Usually  can't  bear  to  finish ;  only  if  Alice  had  made 
them,  as  it  keeps  egging  her  on  to  do,  would  they  be 
at  all  interesting.  That  at  least  would  show  the  child 
had  paid  some  sort  of  attention,  and  he  could  go  away 
and  repeat  them  to  other  people.  The  desire  to  have 
jokes  made  all  the  time,  he  feels,  is  a  painful  and  obvious 
confession  of  spiritual  discomfort,  and  the  freedom  of 
Alice  from  such  a  feeling  makes  her  unapproachable. 

'  Don't  tease  so/  said  Alice,  looking  about  in  vain  to  see  where 
the  voice  came  from  ;  '  if  you're  so  anxious  to  have  a  joke  made, 
why  don't  you  make  one  yourself? ' 

The  little  voice  sighed  deeply :  it  was  very  unhappy,  evidently, 
and  Alice  would  have  said  something  pitying  to  comfort  it,  '  if 
it  would  only  sigh  like  other  people ! '  she  thought.  But  this 
was  such  a  wonderfully  small  sigh,  that  she  wouldn't  have  heard 
it  at  all,  if  it  hadn't  come  quite  close  to  her  car.  The  consequence 
of  this  was  that  it  tickled  her  ear  very  much,  and  quite  took  off 
her  thoughts  from  the  unhappiness  of  the  poor  little  creature. 

'  /  know  you  are  a  friend*  the  little  voice  went  on  ;  *  a  dear  friend, 
and  an  old  friend.    And  you  wont  hurt  me,  though  I  am  an  insect.' 

4  What   kind    of  insect  ? '  Alice  inquired   a  little  anxiously. 
What  she  really  wanted  to  know  was,  whether  it  could  sting  or 
not,  but  she  thought  this  wouldn't  be  quite  a  civil  question  to  ask. 
What,  then  vo>  dent — '  the  little  voice  began.  .  .  . 

274 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

'  Don't  know  who  I  am !  Does  anybody  not  know  who 
I  am  ? '  He  is  afraid  that  even  so  innocent  a  love  as  his, 
like  all  love,  may  be  cruel,  and  yet  it  is  she  who  is  able 
to  hurt  him,  if  only  through  his  vanity.  The  implications 
of  these  few  pages  are  so  painful  that  the  ironical  calm 
of  the  close,  when  she  kills  it,  seems  delightfully  gay 
and  strong.  The  Gnat  is  suggesting  to  her  that  she 
would  like  to  remain  purely  a  creature  of  Nature  and 
stay  in  the  wood  where  there  are  no  names. 

*.  .  .  That's  a  joke.    I  wish  you  had  made  it.' 

1  Why  do  you  wish  /  had  made  it  ? '  Alice  asked.  '  It's  a  very 
bad  one.' 

But  the  Gnat  only  sighed  deeply,  while  two  large  tears  came 
rolling  down  its  cheeks. 

1  You  shouldn't  make  jokes,'  Alice  said,  8  if  it  makes  you  so 
unhappy.* 

Then  came  another  of  those  melancholy  little  sighs,  and  this 
time  the  poor  Gnat  really  seemed  to  have  sighed  itself  away, 
for,  when  Alice  looked  up,  there  was  nothing  whatever  to  be 
seen  on  the  twig,  and,  as  she  was  getting  quite  chilly  with  sitting 
so  long,  she  got  up  and  walked  on. 

The  overpunctuation  and  the  flat  assonance  of  '  long — on ' 
add  to  the  effect.  There  is  something  charmingly  prim 
and  well-meaning  about  the  way  she  sweeps  aside  the 
feelings  that  she  can't  deal  with.  One  need  not  suppose 
that  Dodgson  ever  performed  this  scene,  which  he  can 
imagine  so  clearly,  but  there  is  too  much  self-knowledge 
here  to  make  the  game  of  psycho-analysis  seem  merely 


good  fun. 


The  scene  in  which  the  Duchess  has  become  friendly 
to  Alice  at  the  garden-party  shows  Alice  no  longer 
separate  from  her  creator ;  it  is  clear  that  Dodgson  would 
be  as  irritated  as  she  is  by  the  incident,  and  is  putting 
himself  in  her  place.    The  obvious  way  to  read  it  is  as 

275 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

the  middle-aged  woman  trying  to  flirt  with  the  chaste 
young  man. 

1  The  game  seems  to  be  going  on  rather  better  now,*  she  said. 

4  'Tis  so,'  said  the  Duchess ;  *  and  the  moral  of  it  is — "  Oh, 
'tis  love,  'tis  love,  that  makes  the  world  go  round !  " 

4  Somebody  said,'  whispered  Alice,  '  that  it's  done  by  every- 
body minding  their  own  business ! ' 

4  Ah,  well !  It  means  much  the  same  thing,'  said  the  Duchess, 
digging  her  sharp  little  chin  into  Alice's  shoulder  as  she  added, 
4  and  the  moral  of  that  is — "  Take  care  of  the  sense,  and  the  sounds 
will  take  care  of  themselves."  ' 

4  How  fond  she  is  of  finding  morals  in  things,'  Alice  thought 
to  herself. 

Both  are  true  because  the  generous  and  the  selfish  kinds 
of  love  have  the  same  name ;  the  Duchess  seems  to  take 
the  view  of  the  political  economists,  that  the  greatest 
public  good  is  produced  by  the  greatest  private  selfish- 
ness. All  this  talk  about  *  morals '  makes  Alice  suspicious ; 
also  she  is  carrying  a  flamingo,  a  pink  bird  with  a  long 
neck.  '  The  chief  difficulty  Alice  found  at  first  was  in 
managing  her  flamingo  ...  it  would  twist  itself  round 
and  look  up  in  her  face/ 

4 1  dare  say  you're  wondering  why  I  don't  put  my  arm  round 
your  waist,'  the  Duchess  said  after  a  pause :  4  the  reason  is,  that 
I'm  doubtful  about  the  temper  of  your  flamingo.  Shall  I  try  the 
experiment  ? ' 

4  He  might  bite,'  Alice  cautiously  replied,  not  feeling  at  all 
anxious  to  have  the  experiment  tried. 

4  Very  true,'  said  the  Duchess :  4  flamingoes  and  mustard  both 
bite.  And  the  moral  of  that  is — 44  Birds  of  a  feather  flock  to- 
gether." ' 

Mustard  may  be  classed  with  the  pepper  that  made  her 
*  ill-tempered  '  when  she  had  so  much  of  it  in  the  soup, 
so  that  flamingoes  and  mustard  become  the  desires  of 

276 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

the  two  sexes.  No  doubt  Dodgson  would  be  indignant 
at  having  this  meaning  read  into  his  symbols,  but  the 
meaning  itself,  if  he  had  been  intending  to  talk  about  the 
matter,  is  just  what  he  would  have  wished  to  say. 

The  Duchess  then  jumps  away  to  another  aspect  of 
the  selfishness  of  our  nature. 

4  It's  a  mineral,  I  think,'  said  Alice. 

*  Of  course  it  is,'  said  the  Duchess,  who  seemed  ready  to  agree 
to  everything  that  Alice  said ;  '  there's  a  large  mustard-mine 
near  here.  And  the  moral  of  that  is — "  The  more  there  is  of  mine, 
the  less  there  is  of  yours."  ' 

One  could  put  the  same  meanings  in  again,  but  a  new 
one  has  come  forward  :  *  Industrialism  is  as  merely  greedy 
as  sex  ;  all  we  get  from  it  is  a  sharper  distinction  between 
rich  and  poor.'  They  go  off  into  riddles  about  sincerity 
and  how  one  can  grow  into  what  one  would  seem  to  be. 
This  sort  of  *  analyris '  is  a  peep  at  machinery;  the 
question  for  criticism  is  what  is  done  with  the  machine. 
The  purpose  of  a  dream  on  the  Freudian  theory  is  simply 
to  keep  you  in  an  undisturbed  state  so  that  you  can  go 
on  sleeping ;  in  the  course  of  this  practical  work  you 
may  produce  something  of  more  general  value,  but  not 
only  of  one  sort.  Alice  has,  I  understand,  become  a 
patron  saint  of  the  Surrealists,  but  they  do  not  go  in  for 
Comic  Primness,  a  sort  of  reserve  of  force,  which  is  her 
chief  charm.  Wyndham  Lewis  avoided  putting  her 
beside  Proust  and  Lorelei  to  be  danced  on  as  a  debili- 
tating child-cult  (though  she  is  a  bit  of  pragmatist  too) ; 
the  present-day  reader  is  more  likely  to  complain  of  her 
complacence.  In  this  sort  of  child-cult  the  child,  though 
a  means  of  imaginative  escape,  becomes  the  critic; 
Alice  is  the  most  reasonable  and  responsible  person  in 
the  book.    This  is  meant  as  charmingly  pathetic  about 

277 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

her  as  well  as  satire  about  her  elders,  and  there  is  some 
implication  that  the  sane  man  can  take  no  other  view 
of  the  world,  even  for  controlling  it,  than  the  child 
does ;  but  this  is  kept  a  good  distance  from  sentimental 
infantilism.  There  is  always  some  doubt  about  the 
meaning  of  a  man  who  says  he  wants  to  be  like  a  child, 
because  he  may  want  to  be  like  it  in  having  fresh  and 
vivid  feelings  and  senses,  in  not  knowing,  expecting, 
or  desiring  evil,  in  not  having  an  analytical  mind,  in 
having  no  sexual  desires  recognisable  as  such,  or  out  of 
a  desire  to  be  mothered  and  evade  responsibility.  He  is 
usually  mixing  them  up— Christ's  praise  of  children, 
given  perhaps  for  reasons  I  have  failed  to  list,  has  made 
it  a  respected  thing  to  say,  and  it  has  been  said  often  and 
loosely — but  he  can  make  his  own  mixture ;  Lewis's 
invective  hardly  shows  which  he  is  attacking.  The 
praise  of  the  child  in  the  Alices  mainly  depends  on  a 
distaste  not  only  for  sexuality  but  for  all  the  distortions 
of  vision  that  go  with  a  rich  emotional  life ;  the  opposite 
idea  needs  to  be  set  against  this,  that  you  can  only  under- 
stand people  or  even  things  by  having  such  a  life  in 
yourself  to  be  their  mirror ;  but  the  idea  itself  is  very 
respectable.  So  far  as  it  is  typical  of  the  scientist  the  books 
are  an  expression  of  the  scientific  attitude  (e.g.  the  bread- 
and-butter  fly)  or  a  sort  of  satire  on  it  that  treats  it  as 
inevitable. 

The  most  obvious  aspect  of  the  complacence  is  the 
snobbery.  It  is  clear  that  Alice  is  not  only  a  very  well- 
brought-up  but  a  very  well-to-do  little  girl ;  if  she  has 
grown  into  Mabel,  so  that  she  will  have  to  go  and  live 
in  that  poky  little  house  and  have  next  to  no  toys  to 
play  with,  she  will  refuse  to  come  out  of  her  rabbit-hole 
at  all.    One  is  only  surprised  that  she  is  allowed  to  meet 

278 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

Mabel.    All  through  the  books  odd  objects  of  luxury 
are  viewed  rather  as  Wordsworth  viewed  mountains; 
meaningless,  but  grand  and  irremovable;    objects  of 
myth.     The  whiting,  the  talking  leg  of  mutton,  the 
soup-tureen,  the  tea-tray  in  the  sky,  are  obvious  examples. 
The  shift  from  the  idea  of  die  child's  unity  with  nature 
is  amusingly  complete;    a  mere  change  in  the  objects 
viewed  makes  it  at  one  with  the  conventions.    But  this 
is  still  not  far  from  Wordsworth,  who  made  his  moun- 
tains into  symbols  of  the  stable  and  moral  society  living 
among  them.     In  part  the  joke  of  this  stands  for  the 
sincerity  of  the  child  that  criticises  the  folly  of  convention, 
but  Alice  is  very  respectful  to  conventions  and  interested 
to  learn  new  ones ;  indeed  the  discussions  about  the  rules 
of  the  game  of  conversation,  those  stern  comments  on 
the  isolation  of  humanity,  put  the  tone  so  strongly  in 
favour  of  the  conventions  that  one  feels  there  is  nothing 
else  in  the  world.    There  is  a  strange  clash  on  this  topic 
about  the  three  little  sisters  discussed  at  the  Mad  Tea- 
party,  who  lived  on  treacle.    '  They  couldn't  have  done 
that,  you  know,'  Alice  gently  remarked,  A  they'd  have 
been  ill.'     *  So  they  were,'  said  the  Dormouse,  *  very 
ill.'     The  creatures  are  always  self-centred  and  argu- 
mentative, to  stand  for  the  detachment  of  the  intellect 
from  emotion,  which  is  necessary  to  it  and  yet  makes 
it  childish.    Then  the  remark  stands  both  for  the  danger 
of  taking  as  one's  guide  the  natural  desires  ('  this  is  the 
sort  of  thing  little  girls  would  do  if  they  were  left  alone  ') 
and  for  a  pathetic  example  of  a   martyrdom  to   the 
conventions ;    the  little  girls  did  not  mind  how  ill  they 
were  made  by  living  on  treacle,  because  it  was  their 
rule,  and  they  knew  it  was  expected  of  them.     (That 
they  are  refined  girls  is  clear  from  the  fact  that  they  do 

279 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

allegorical  sketches.)     There  is  an  obscure  connection 
here  with  the  belief  of  the  period  that  a  really  nice  girl 
is  '  delicate '   (the  profound  sentences  implied  by  the 
combination  of  meanings  in  this  word  are  (a)  '  you  cannot 
get  a  woman  to  be  refined  unless  you  make  her  ill ' 
and  more  darkly  (b)  *  she  is  desirable  because  corpse- 
like  ') ;    Dodgson  was  always  shocked  to  find  that  his 
little  girls  had  appetites,  because  it  made  them  seem  less 
pure.      The    passage    about    the    bread-and-butter    fly 
brings  this  out  more  frankly,  with  something  of  the 
wilful  grimness  of  Webster.    It  was  a  creature  of  such 
high  refinement  that  it  could  only  live  on  weak  tea  with 
cream  in  it  (tea  being  the  caller's  meal,  sacred  to  the 
fair,  with  nothing  gross  about  it). 

A  new  difficulty  came  into  Alice's  head. 

*  Supposing  it  couldn't  find  any  i  '  she  suggested. 
"  Then  it  would  die,  of  course.* 

*  But  that  must  happen  very  often,'  Alice  remarked  thoughtfully. 

*  It  always  happens,'  said  the  Gnat. 

After  this,  Alice  was  silent  for  a  minute  or  two,  pondering. 

There  need  be  no  gloating  over  the  child's  innocence 
here,  as  in  Barric;  anybody  might  ponder.  Alice  has 
just  suggested  that  flies  burn  themselves  to  death  in 
candles  out  of  a  martyr's  ambition  to  become  Snap- 
dragon flies.  The  talk  goes  on  to  losing  one's  name, 
which  is  the  next  stage  on  her  journey,  and  brings 
freedom  but  is  like  death ;  the  girl  may  lose  her  person- 
ality by  growing  up  into  the  life  of  convention,  and  her 
virginity  (like  her  surname)  by  marriage;  or  she  may 
lose  her  *  good  name  '  when  she  loses  the  conventions 
'  in  the  woods ' — the  animals,  etc.,  there  have  no  names 
because  they  arc  out.  of  reach  of  the  controlling  reason; 
or  when  she  develops  sex  she  must  neither  understand 

280 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

nor  name  her  feelings.  The  Gnat  is  weeping  and  Alice 
is  afraid  of  the  wood  but  determined  to  go  on.  '  It 
always  dies  of  thirst '  or  *  it  always  dies  in  the  end,  as 
do  we  all ' ;  *  the  life  of  highest  refinement  is  the  most 
deathly,  yet  what  else  is  one  to  aim  at  when  life  is  so 
brief,  and  when  there  is  so  little  in  it  of  any  value.' 
A  certain  ghoulishness  in  the  atmosphere  of  this,  of 
which  the  tight-lacing  may  have  been  a  product  or 
partial  cause,1  comes  out  very  strongly  in  Henry  James ; 
the  decadents  pounced  on  it  for  their  own  purposes 
but  could  not  put  more  death-wishes  into  it  than  these 
respectables  had  done  already. 

The  blend  of  child-cult  and  snobbery  that  Alice  shares 
with  Oscar  Wilde  is  indeed  much  more  bouncing  and 
cheerful;  the  theme  here  is  that  it  is  proper  for  the 
well-meaning  and  innocent  girl  to  be  worldly,  because 
she,  like  the  world,  should  know  the  value  of  her  condi- 
tion. '  When  we  were  girls  we  were  brought  up  to  know 
nothing,  and  very  interesting  it  was ' ;  *  mamma,  whose 
ideas  on  education  are  remarkably  strict,  has  brought 
me  up  to  be  extremely  short-sighted ;  so  do  you  mind 
my  looking  at  you  through  my  glasses  ? '  This  joke 
seems  to  have  come  in  after  the  Restoration  dramatists 
as  innocence  recovered  its  social  value ;  there  arc  touches 
in  Farquhar  and  it  is  strong  in  the  Beggar's  Opera. 
Sheridan  has  full  control  of  it  for  Mrs.  Malaprop. 

I  don't  think  so  much  learning  becomes  a  young  woman.  .  .  . 
But,  Sir  Anthony,  I  would  send  her,  at  nine  years  old,  to  a  boarding 
school,  in  order  to  learn  a  little  ingenuity  and  artifice.    Then,  sir, 

1  It  was  getting  worse  when  the  Alices  were  written.  In  what 
Mr.  Hugh  Kingsmill  calls  4  the  fatal  fifties '  skirts  were  so  big  that 
the  small  waist  was  not  much  needed  for  contrast,  so  it  can't  be 
blamed  for  the  literary  works  of  that  decade. 

28l 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

she  should  have  a  supercilious  knowledge  in  accounts;  and  as 
she  grew  up,  I  would  have  her  instructed  in  geometry,  that  she 
might  learn  something  of  the  contagious  countries ;  but  above 
all,  Sir  Anthony,  she  should  be  mistress  of  orthodoxy,  that  she 
might  not  mis-spell,  and  mispronounce  words  so  shamefully 
as  girls  usually  do ;  and  likewise  that  she  might  reprehend  the 
true  meaning  of  what  she  ic  saying. 

Dodgson  has  an  imitation  of  this  which  may  show, 
what  many  of  his  appreciators  seem  anxious  to  deny, 
that  even  Wonderland  contains  straight  satire.  The  Mock 
Turtle  was  taught  at  school 

Reeling  and  Writhing,  of  course,  to  begin  with,  and  then  the 
different  branches  of  Arithmetic — Ambition,  Distraction,  Uglifica- 
tion,  and  Derision  .  .  .  Mystery,  ancient  and  modern,  with 
Seaography  ;  then  Drawling — the  Drawling-master  used  to  come 
once  a  week ;  he  taught  us  Drawling,  Stretching,  and  Fainting 
in  Coils. 

Children  are  to  enjoy  the  jokes  as  against  education, 
grown-ups  as  against  a  smart  and  too  expensive 
education.  Alice  was  not  one  of  the  climbers  taught 
like  this,  and  remarks  firmly  elsewhere  that  manners  are 
not  learnt  from  lessons.  But  she  willingly  receives 
social  advice  like  *  curtsey  while  you're  thinking  what 
to  say,  it  saves  time/  and  the  doctrine  that  you  must 
walk  away  from  a  queen  if  you  really  want  to  meet  her 
has  more  point  when  said  of  the  greed  of  the  climber 
than  of  the  unselfsceking  curiosity  of  the  small  girl. 
Or  it  applies  to  both,  and  allows  the  climber  a  sense  of 
purity  and  simplicity ;  I  think  this  was  a  source  of  charm 
whether  Dodgson  meant  it  or  not.  Alice's  own  social 
assumptions  arc  more  subtle  and  all-pervading ;  she 
always  seems  to  raise  the  tone  of  the  company  she  enters, 
and  to  find  this  all  the  easier  because  the  creatures  arc 

282 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

so  rude  to  her.  A  central  idea  here  is  that  the  perfect 
lady  can  gain  all  the  advantages  of  contempt  without 
soiling  herself  by  expressing  or  even  feeling  it. 

This  time  there  could  be  no  mistake  about  it ;  it  was  neither 
more  nor  less  than  a  pig,  and  she  felt  that  it  would  be  quite  absurd 
for  her  to  carry  it  any  further.  So  she  set  the  little  creature  down, 
and  felt  quite  relieved  to  see  it  trot  quietly  away  into  the  wood. 
'  If  it  had  grown  up,'  she  said  to  herself,  '  it  would  have  made  a 
dreadfully  ugly  child,  but  it  makes  rather  a  handsome  pig,  I  think.' 
And  she  began  thinking  over  other  children  she  knew,  who  might 
do  very  well  as  pigs,  and  was  just  saying  to  herself,  '  if  only  one 
knew  the  right  way  to  change  them — '  when  she  was  a  little 
startled  by  seeing  the  Cheshire  Cat  on  the  bough  of  a  tree  a  few 
yards  off. 

The  Cat  only  grinned  when  it  saw  Alice.  It  looked  good- 
natured,  she  thought:  still  it  had  very  long  claws  and  a 
great  many  teeth^  so  she  felt  that  it  ought  to  be  treated  with 
respect. 

The  effect  of  cuddling  these  mellow  evasive  phrases — 
*  a  good  deal ' — '  do  very  well  as ' — whose  vagueness 
can  convey  so  rich  an  irony  and  so  complete  a  detach- 
ment, while  making  so  firm  a  claim  to  show  charming 
good-will,  is  very  close  to  that  of  Wilde's  comedy.  So 
is  the  hint  of  a  delicious  slavishness  behind  the  primness, 
and  contrasting  with  the  irony,  of  the  last  phrase.  (But 
dicn  Dodgson  feels  the  cat  deserves  respect  as  the 
detached  intelligence — he  is  enjoying  the  idea  that  Alice 
and  other  social  figures  have  got  to  respect  Dodgson.) 
I  think  there  is  a  feeling  that  the  aristocrat  is  essentially 
like  the  child  because  it  is  his  business  to  make  claims 
in  advance  of  Ins  immediate  personal  merits ;  the  child 
is  not  strong  yet,  and  the  aristocrat  on-y  as  part  of  a 
system;  the  best  he  can  do  if  actually  asked  for  his 
credentials,  since  it  would  be  indecent  to  produce  his 

283 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

pedigree,  is  to  display  charm  and  hope  it  will  appear 
unconscious,  like  the  good  young  girl.  Wilde's  version 
of  this  leaves  rather  a  bad  taste  in  the  mouth  because  it 
is  slavish ;  it  has  something  of  the  naive  snobbery  of  the 
high-class  servant.  Whistler  meant  this  by  the  most 
crashing  of  his  insults — *  Oscar  now  stands  forth  unveiled 
as  his  own  "  gentleman  "  ' — when  Wilde  took  shelter 
from  a  charge  of  plagiarism  behind  the  claim  that  a 
gentleman  does  not  attend  to  coarse  abuse. 

Slavish,  for  one  tiling,  because  they  were  always 
juggling  between  what  they  themselves  thought  wicked 
and  what  the  society  they  addressed  thought  wicked, 
talking  about  sin  when  they  meant  scandal.  The  thrill 
of  Pen,  Pencil  and  Poison  is  in  the  covert  comparison 
between  Wilde  himself  and  the  poisoner,  and  Wilde 
certainly  did  not  think  his  sexual  habits  as  wicked  as 
killing  a  friend  to  annoy  an  insurance  company.  By 
their  very  hints  that  they  deserved  notice  as  sinners  they 
pretended  to  accept  all  the  moral  ideas  of  society,  because 
they  wanted  to  succeed  in  it,  and  yet  society  only  took 
them  seriously  because  they  were  connected  with  an 
intellectual  movement  which  refused  to  accept  some  of 
those  ideas.  The  Byronic  theme  of  the  man  unable  to 
accept  die  moral  ideas  of  his  society  and  yet  torn  by  his 
feelings  about  them  is  real  and  permanent,  but  to  base  it 
on  intellectual  dishonesty  is  to  short-circuit  it ;  and  leads 
to  a  claim  that  the  life  of  highest  refinement  must  be 
allowed  a  certain  avid  infantile  petulance. 

Alice  is  not  a  slave  like  this ;  she  is  almost  too  sure  that 
she  is  good  and  right.  The  grown-up  is  egged  on  to 
imitate  her  not  as  a  privileged  decadent  but  as  a  privileged 
eccentric,  a  Victorian  figure  that  we  must  be  sorry  to  lose. 
The  eccentric  though  kind  and  noble  would  be  alarming 

284 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

from  the  strength  of  his  virtues  i£  he  were  less  funny ; 
Dodgson  saw  to  it  that  this  underlying  feeling  about  his 
monsters  was  brought  out  firmly  by  Tenniel,  who  had 
been  trained  on  drawing  very  serious  things  like  the 
British  Lion  weeping  over  Gordon,  for  Punch.  Their 
massive  and  romantic  nobility  is,  I  think,  an  important 
element  in  the  effect ;  Dodgson  did  not  get  it  in  his  own 
drawings  (nor,  by  the  way,  did  he  give  all  the  young 
men  eunuchoid  legs)  but  no  doubt  he  would  have  done 
if  he  had  been  able.  I  should  connect  this  weighty 
background  with  the  tone  of  worldly  goodness,  of 
universal  but  not  stupid  charity,  in  Alice's  remarks  about 
the  pig :  *  I  shall  do  my  best  even  for  you ;  of  course 
one  will  suffer,  because  you  are  not  worth  the  efforts 
spent  on  you ;  but  I  have  no  temptation  to  be  unchari- 
table to  you  because  I  am  too  far  above  you  to  need  to 
put  you  in  your  place ' — this  is  what  her  tone  would 
develop  into ;  a  genuine  readiness  for  self-sacrifice  and 
a  more  genuine  jense  of  power. 

The  qualities  held  in  so  subtle  a  suspension  in  Alice 
are  shown  in  full  blast  in  the  two  queens.  It  is  clear  that 
this  sort  of  moral  superiority  involves  a  painful  isolation, 
similar  to  those  involved  in  the  intellectual  way  of  life 
and  the  life  of  chastity,  which  arc  here  associated  with 
it.  The  reference  to  Maud  (1855)  brings  this  out.  It 
was  a  shocking  book ;  mockery  was  deserved ;  and  its 
improper  freedom  was  parodied  by  the  flowers  at  the 
beginning  of  the  Looking-Glass.  A  taint  of  fussincss 
hangs  over  this  sort  of  essay,  but  the  parodies  were 
assumed  to  be  obvious  (children  who  aren't  forced  to 
learn  Dr.  Watts  can't  get  the  same  thrill  from  parodies 
of  him  as  the  original  children  did)  and  even  this  parody 
is  not  as  obvious  as  it  was.    There  is  no  doubt  that  the 

285 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

flowers  are  much  funnier  if  you  compare  them  with 
their  indestructible  originals. 

whenever  a  March-wind  sighs 
He  sets  the  jewel-print  of  your  feet 
In  violets  blue  as  your  eyes  .  .  . 
the  pimpernel  dozed  on  the  lea ; 
But  the  rose  was  awake  all  night  for  your  sake, 

Knowing  your  promise  to  me ; 
The  lilies  and  roses  were  all  awake  .  .  . 
Queen  rose  of  the  rose-bud  garden  of  girls.  .  .  . 

There  has  fallen  a  splendid  tear 

From  the  passion-flower  at  the  gate. 
She  is  coming,  my  dove,  my  dear  ; 

She  is  coming,  my  life,  my  fate  ; 
The  red  rose  cries,  *  She  is  near,  she  is  near  * ; 

And  the  white  rose  weeps, '  She  is  late  * ; 
The  larkspur  listens,  '  I  hear,  I  hear  ' ; 

And  the  lily  whispers, '  I  wait.' 

1  It  isn't  manners  for  us  to  begin,  you  know/  said  the  Rose, 
1  and  I  really  was  wondering  when  you'd  speak.'  .  .  .  How  is  it 
that  you  all  talk  so  nicely  ? '  Alice  said,  hoping  to  get  it  into  a 
better  temper  by  a  compliment.  .  .  .  '  In  most  gardens,'  the 
Tiger-Lily  said,  '  they  make  the  beds  too  soft,  so  that  the  flowers 
are  always  asleep.'  This  sounded  a  very  good  reason,  and  Alice 
was  quite  pleased  to  know  it.  '  I  never  thought  of  that  before  !  ' 
she  said.  It's  my  opinion  you  never  think  at  all,'  the  Rose  said 
in  rather  a  severe  tone.  '  I  never  saw  anybody  that  looked 
stupider,'  a  Violet  said,  so  suddenly,  that  Alice  quite  jumped ; 
for  it  hadn't  spoken  before.  .  .  .  4  She's  coming  ! '  cried  the  Lark- 
spur. '  I  hear  her  footstep,  thump,  thump,  along  the  gravel- 
walk  ! '  Alice  looked  round  eagerly,  and  found  that  it  was  the 
Red  Queen — 

the  concentrated  essence,  Dodgson  was  to  explain,  of  all 
governesses.  The  Tiger-Lily  was  originally  a  Passion- 
Flower,  but  it  was  explained  to  Dodgson  in  time  that 

286 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

the  passion  meant  was  not  that  of  sexual  desire  (which  he 
relates  to  ill-temper)  but  of  Christ ;  a  brilliant  recovery 
was  made  after  the  shock  of  this,  for  Tiger-Lily  includes 
both  the  alarming  fierceness  of  ideal  passion  (chaste  till 
now)  and  the  ill-temper  of  the  life  of  virtue  and  self- 
sacrifice  typified  by  the  governess  (chaste  always).  So 
that  in  effect  he  includes  all  the  flowers  Tennyson  named. 
The  willow-tree  that  said  Bough- Wough  doesn't  come 
in  the  poem,  but  it  is  a  symbol  of  hopeless  love  anyway. 
The  pink  daisies  turn  white  out  of  fear,  as  the  white 
ones  turn  pink  in  the  poem  out  of  admiration.  I  don't 
know  how  far  we  ought  to  notice  the  remark  about 
beds,  which  implies  that  they  should  be  hard  because 
even  passion  demands  the  virtues  of  asceticism  (they  are 
also  the  earthy  beds  of  the  grave) ;  it  fits  in  very  well 
with  the  ideas  at  work,  but  does  not  seem  a  tiling  Dodg- 
son  would  have  said  in  clearer  language. 

But  though  he  shied  from  the  Christian  association  in 
the  complex  idea  wanted  from  *  Passion-Flower '  the 
flowers  make  another  one  very  firmly. 

4  But  that's  not  your  fault,'  the  Rose  added  kindly :  '  you're 
beginring  to  fade,  you  know — and  then  one  can't  help  one's 
petals  getting  a  little  untidy.'  Alice  didn't  like  this  idea  at  all: 
so,  to  change  the  subject,  she  asked  '  Does  she  ever  come  out 
here  ? '  *  I  daresay  you'll  see  her  soon,'  said  the  Rose.  *  She's 
one  of  the  thorny  kind.'  '  Where  does  she  wear  the  thorns  ?  * 
Alice  asked  with  some  curiosity.  '  Why,  all  round  her  head,  of 
course,'  the  Rose  replied.  *  I  was  wondering  you  hadn't  got 
some  too.    I  thought  it  was  the  regular  rule.' 

Death  is  never  far  out  of  sight  in  the  books.  The  Rose 
cannot  help  standing  for  desire  but  its  thorns  here  stand 
for  the  ill-temper  not  so  much  of  passion  as  of  chastity, 
that  of  the  governess  or  that  involved  in  ideal  love. 
Then  the  thorns  round  the  Queen's  head,  the  *  regular 

287 


■ 

- 1 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

rule '  for  suffering  humanity,  not  yet  assumed  by  the 
child,  stand  for  the  Passion,  the  self-sacrifice  of  the  most 
ideal  and  most  generous  love,  which  produces  ugliness 
and  ill-temper. 

The  joke  of  making  romantic  love  ridiculous  by 
applying  it  to  undesired  middle-aged  women  is  less  to 
be  respected  than  the  joke  of  the  hopelessness  of  idealism. 
W.  S.  Gilbert  uses  it  for  the  same  timid  facetiousness 
but  more  offensively.  This  perhaps  specially  nineteenth- 
century  trick  is  played  about  all  the  women  in  the 
Alices — the  Ugly  Duchess  who  had  the  aphrodisiac  in 
the  soup  (pepper,  as  Alice  pointed  out,  produces  *  ill- 
temper  ')  was  the  same  person  as  the  Queen  in  the  first 
draft  ('  Queen  of  Hearts  and  Marchioness  of  Mock 
Turtles ')  so  that  the  Queen's  sentence  of  her  is  the 
suicide  of  disruptive  passion.  The  Mock  Turtle,  who  is' 
half  beef  in  the  picture,  with  a  cloven  hoof,  suffers  from 
the  calf-love  of  a  turtle-dove ;  he  went  to  a  bad  school 
and  is  excited  about  dancing.  (He  is  also  weeping  for 
his  lost  childhood,  which  Dodgson  sympathised  with 
while  blaming  its  exaggeration,  and  Alice  thought  very 
queer;  this  keeps  it  from  being  direct  satire.)  So  love 
is  also  ridiculous  in  young  men ;  it  is  felt  that  these  two 
cover  the  whole  field  (Dodgson  was  about  thirty  at  the 
time)  so  that  granted  these  points  the  world  is  safe  for 
chastity.  The  danger  was  from  middle-aged  women 
because  young  women  could  be  treated  as  pure  like 
Alice.  Nor  indeed  is  this  mere  convention ;  Gilbert 
was  relying  on  one  of  the  more  permanent  jokes  played 
by  nature  on  civilisation,  that  unless  somewhat  primitive 
methods  are  employed  the  specific  desires  of  refined 
women  may  appear  too  late.  So  far  as  the  chaste  man 
uses  this  fact,  and  the  fact  that  men  are  hurt  by  permanent 

288 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

chastity  less  than  women,  in  order  to  insult  women,  no 
fuss  that  he  may  make  about  baby  women  will  make 
him  dignified.  Dodgson  keeps  the  theme  fairly  agreeable 
by  connecting  it  with  the  more  general  one  of  self- 
sacrifice — which  may  be  useless  or  harmful,  even  when 
spontaneous  or  part  of  a  reasonable  convention,  which 
then  makes  the  sacrificer  ridiculous  and  crippled,  but 
which  even  then  makes  him  deserve  respect  and  may  give 
him  unexpected  sources  of  power.  The  man  playing  at 
child-cult  arrives  at  Sex  War  here  (as  usual  since,  but  the 
comic  Lear  didn't),  but  not  to  the  deatli  nor  with  all 
weapons. 

The  same  ideas  are  behind  the  White  Queen,  the 
emotional  as  against  the  practical  idealist.    It  seems  clear 
that  the  Apologia  (1864)  is  in  sight  when  she  believes 
the  impossible  for  half  an  hour  before  breakfast,  to  keep 
in  practice;    I  should  interpret  the  two  examples  she 
gives  as  immortality  and  putting  back  the  clock  of  history, 
also  Mass  occurs  before  breakfast.    All  through  the  Wool 
and  Water  chapter  (milk  and  water  but  not  nourishing, 
and  gritty  to  the  teeth)  she  is  Oxford ;  the  life  of  learning 
rather  than  of  dogmatic  religion.    Every  one  recognises 
the  local  shop,  the  sham  fights,  the  rowing,  the  academic 
old  sheep,  and  the  way  it  laughs  scornfully  when  Alice 
doesn't  know  the  technical  slang  of  rowing ;   and  there 
are  some  general  reflections  on  education.    The  teacher 
wilfully  puts  the  egg  a  long  way  off,  so  that  you  have  to 
walk  after  it  yourself,   and   meanwhile  it  turns  into 
something  else ;    and  when  you  have  *  paid  for  '  the 
education  its  effects,  then  first  known,  must  be  accepted 
as  part  of  you  whether  they  are  good  or  bad.    Oxford 
as  dreamy  may  be  half  satire  half  acceptance  of  Arnold's 
4  adorable  dreamer  '  purple  patch  (1865). 

T  289 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

Once  at  least  in  each  book  a  cry  of  loneliness  goes  up 
from  Alice  at  the  oddity  beyond  sympathy  or  com- 
munication of  the  world  she  has  entered — whether  that 
in  which  the  child  is  shut  by  weakness,  or  the  adult  by 
the  renunciations  necessary  both  for  the  ideal  and  the 
worldly  way  of  life  (the  strength  of  the  snobbery  is  to 
imply  that  these  are  the  same).  It  seems  strangely 
terrible  that  the  answers  of  the  White  Queen,  on  the 
second  of  these  occasions,  should  be  so  unanswerable. 

By  this  time  it  was  getting  light.  *  The  crow  must  have  flown 
away,  I  think,'  said  Alice :  4  I'm  so  glad  it's  gone.  I  thought  it 
was  the  night  coming  on.' 

Even  in  the  rhyme  the  crow  may  be  fear  of  death.  The 
rhymes,  like  those  other  main  structural  materials,  chess 
and  cards,  are  useful  because,  being  fixed,  trivial,  odd, 
and  stirring  to  the  imagination,  they  affect  one  as  con- 
ventions of  the  dream  world,  and  this  sets  the  tone  about 
conventions. 

*  I  wish  I  could  manage  to  be  glad  !  *  the  Queen  said.  *  Only  I 
never  can  remember  the  rule.  You  must  be  very  happy,  living  in 
this  wood,  and  being  glad  whenever  you  Jike.' 

So  another  wood  has  turned  out  to  be  Nature.  This  use 
of '  that's  a  rule  *  is  Sheridan's  in  The  Critic ;  the  pathos 
of  its  futility  is  diat  it  is  an  attempt  of  reason  to  do  the 
work  of  emotion  and  escape  the  dangers  of  the  emotional 
approach  to  life.  There  may  be  a  glance  at  the  Oxford 
Movement  and  dogma.  Perhaps  chiefly  a  satire  on  the 
complacence  of  the  fashion  of  slumming,  the  remark 
seems  to  spread  out  into  the  whole  beauty  and  pathos  of 
the  ideas  of  pastoral ;  by  its  very  universality  her  vague 
sympathy  becomes  an  obscure  self-indulgence. 

290 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

'  Only  it  is  so  very  lonely  here ! '  Alice  said  in  a  melancholy 
voice ;  and  at  the  thought  of  her  loneliness  two  large  tears  came 
rolling  down  her  cheeks. 

'  Oh,  don't  go  on  like  that/  cried  the  poor  Queen,  wringing 
her  hands  in  despair.  *  Consider  what  a  great  girl  you  are.  Con- 
sider what  a  long  way  you've  come  to-day.  Consider  what 
o'clock  it  is.    Consider  anything,  only  don't  cry ! ' 

Alice  could  not  help  laughing  at  this,  even  in  the  midst  of  her 
tears.  *  Can  you  keep  from  crying  by  considering  things  ? ' 
she  asked. 

'  That's  the  way  it's  done,'  the  Queen  said  with  great  decision ; 
'  nobody  can  do  two  things  at  once,  you  know.  Let's  consider 
your  age  to  begin  with — how  old  are  you  ? ' 

We  are  back  at  once  to  the  crucial  topic  of  age  and 
the  fear  of  death,  and  pass  to  the  effectiveness  of  practice 
in  helping  one  to  believe  the  impossible;  for  example 
that  the  ageing  Queen  is  so  old  that  she  would  be  dead. 
The  helplessness  of  the  intellect,  which  claims  to  rule 
so  much,  is  granted  under  cover  of  the  counter-claim 
that  since  it  makes  you  impersonal  you  can  forget  pain 
with  it ;  we  do  not  believe  this  about  the  queen  chiefly 
because  she  has  not  enough  understanding  of  other 
people.  The  jerk  of  the  return  to  age,  and  the  assumption 
that  this  is  a  field,  for  polite  lying,  make  the  work  of  the 
intellect  only  the  game  of  conversation.  Humpty 
Dumpty  has  the  same  embarrassing  trick  for  arguing 
away  a  suggestion  of  loneliness.  Indeed  about  all  the 
rationalism  of  Alice  and  her  acquaintances  there  hangs  a 
suggestion  that  there  are  after  all  questions  of  pure 
thought,  academic  thought  whose  altruism  is  recognised 
and  paid  for,  thought  meant  only  for  the  upper  classes 
to  whom  the  conventions  are  in  any  case  natural  habit ; 
like  that  suggestion  that  the  scientist  is  sure  to  be  a 
gentleman  and  has  plenty  of  space  which  is  the  fascina- 
tion of  Kew  Gardens. 

T  2  291 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

The  Queen  is  a  very  inclusive  figure.  *  Looking  before 
and  after '  with  the  plaintive  tone  of  universal  altruism 
she  lives  chiefly  backwards,  in  history;  the  necessary 
darkness  of  growth,  the  mysteries  of  self-knowledge, 
the  self-contradictions  of  the  will,  the  antinomies  of 
philosophy,  the  very  Looking-Glass  itself,  impose  this ; 
nor  is  it  mere  weakness  to  attempt  to  resolve  them  only 
in  the  direct  impulse  of  the  child.  Gathering  the  more 
dream-rushes  her  love  for  man  becomes  the  more 
universal,  herself  the  more  like  a  porcupine.  Knitting 
with  more  and  more  needles  she  tries  to  control  life  by  a 
more  and  more  complex  intellectual  apparatus — the 
*  progress '  of  Herbert  Spencer ;  any  one  shelf  of  the 
shop  is  empty,  but  there  is  always  something  very 
interesting — the  *  atmosphere  '  of  the  place  is  so  interest- 
ing— which  moves  up  as  you  look  at  it  from  shelf 
to  shelf;  there  is  jam  only  in  the  future  and  our  tradi- 
tional past,  and  the  test  made  by  Alice,  who  sent  value 
through  the  ceiling  as  if  it  were  quite  used  to  it,  shows  that 
progress  can  never  reach  value,  because  its  habitation  and 
name  is  heaven.  The  Queen's  scheme  of  social  reform, 
which  is  to  punish  those  who  are  not  respectable  before 
their  crimes  are  committed,  seems  to  be  another  of 
these  jokes  about  progress : 

4  But  if  you  hadn't  done  them/  the  Queen  said,  '  that  would 
have  been  better  still ;  better,  and  better,  and  better ! '  Her  voice 
went  higher  with  each  '  better  '  till  it  got  to  quite  a  squeak  at  last. 

There  is  a  similar  attack  in  the  Walrus  and  the  Carpenter, 
who  arc  depressed  by  the  spectacle  of  unimproved  nature 
and  engage  in  charitable  work  among  oysters.  The 
Carpenter  is  a  Castle  and  the  Walrus,  who  could  eat 
so  many  more  because  he  was  crying  behind  his  hand- 
kerchief, was  a  Bishop,  in  the  scheme  at  the  beginning 

292 


ALICE  IN  WONDERLAND 

of  the  book.  But  in  saying  so  one  must  be  struck  by 
the  depth  at  which  the  satire  is  hidden ;  the  queerness 
of  the  incident  and  the  characters  takes  on  a  Words- 
worthian  grandeur  and  aridity,  and  the  landscape  defined 
by  the  tricks  of  facetiousness  takes  on  the  remote  and 
staring  beauty  of  the  ideas  of  the  insane.  It  is  odd  to 
find  that  Tcnniel  went  on  to  illustrate  Poe  in  the  same 
manner;  Dodgson  is  often  doing  what  Poe  wanted  to 
do,  and  can  do  it  the  more  easily  because  he  can  safely 
introduce  the  absurd.  The  Idiot  Boy  of  Wordsworth 
is  too  milky  a  moonlit  creature  to  be  at  home  with 
Nature  as  she  was  deplored  by  the  Carpenter,  and  much 
of  the  technique  of  the  rudeness  of  the  Mad  Hatter  has 
been  learned  from  Hamlet.  It  is  the  ground-bass  of  this 
kinship  with  insanity,  I  think,  that  makes  it  so  clear  that 
the  books  are  not  trifling,  and  the  cool  courage  with 
which  Alice  accepts  madmen  that  gives  them  their 
strength. 

This  talk  about  the  snobbery  of  the  Alices  may  seem 
a  mere  attack,  but  a  little  acid  may  help  to  remove  the 
slime  with  which  they  have  been  encrusted.  The  two 
main  ideas  behind  the  snobbery,  that  virtue  and  intelli- 
gence are  alike  lonely,  and  that  good  manners  are  therefore 
important  though  an  absurd  confession  of  human  limita- 
tions, do  not  depend  on  a  local  class  system ;  they  would 
be  recognised  in  a  degree  by  any  tolerable  society.  And 
if  in  a  degree  their  oppositcs  must  also  be  recognised, 
so  they  arc  here ;  there  arc  solid  enough  statements  of 
the  shams  of  altruism  and  convention  and  their  horrors 
when  genuine ;  it  is  the  forces  of  this  conflict  that  make 
a  clash  violent  enough  to  end  both  the  dreams.  In 
Wonderland  this  is  mysteriously  mixed  up  with  the  trial 
of  the  Knave  of  Hearts,  the  thief  of  love,  but  at  the  end 

293 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 

of  the  second  book  the  symbolism  is  franker  and  more 
simple.  She  is  a  grown  queen  and  has  acquired  the 
conventional  dignities  of  her  insane  world ;  suddenly 
she  admits  their  insanity,  refuses  to  be  a  grown  queen, 
and  destroys  diem. 

*  I  can't  stand  this  any  longer ! '  she  cried,  as  she  seized  the 
table-cloth  in  both  hands :  one  good  pull,  and  plates,  dishes, 
guests,  and  candles  came  crashing  down  together  in  a  heap  on  the 
floor. 

The  guests  are  inanimate  and  the  crawling  self-stultifying 
macliinery  of  luxury  has  taken  on  a  hideous  life  of  its 
own.  It  is  the  High  Table  of  Christ  Church  that  we 
must  think  of  here.  The  gentleman  is  not  the  slave  of 
his  conventions  because  at  need  he  could  destroy  them ; 
and  yet,  even  if  he  did  this,  and  all  the  more  because  he 
does  not,  he  must  adopt  while  despising  it  the  attitude 
to  diem  of  the  child. 


294 


INDEX 


Alexander,  200,  220 
Amencmhat  "III,  72 
Aristotle,  Rhetoric,  213 
Arnold,  289 
Augustus,  3 
Aurclius,  Marcus,  73,  85 

Bacon,  77 

Baudelaire,  208 

Beaumont,     Knight    of    the 

Burning  Pestle,  70 
Becket,  Thomas  a,  178 
Bcntley,  149-91 
Bissill,  George,  8 
Border  Ballads,  6 
Boswell,  212 
Bradbrook,  M.  C,  127 
Britton,  Lionel,  Hunger  and 

Love j  7 
Brooke,  Rupert,  59,  64 
Browne,  Sir  Thomas,  77 
Bunyan,  168 
Butler,  63,  102,  213,  265 
Butler,    Samuel,    the    elder, 

77 
Byron,  122,  207,  208 

Campbell,   Roy,    The  Alba- 
tross, 208 


Carew,  83 

Carroll,  Lewis  (see  Dodgson) 

Celine,  Voyage  au  Bout  de  la 

Nuit,  io-ii 
Chapman,  37,  39,  85,  139 
Chaucer,  35,  212 
Coleridge,  79,  122,  207,  260 
The  Ancient  Mariner,  120-1 
Cornford,      F.     M.,     From 

Religion    to    Philosophy, 

78 
Cowpcr,  188 

The  Sofa,  177 
Crashaw,  The  Weeper,  83 


Dante,  176 
Darwin,  213 

Origin  of  Species,  254 
Defoe,  58 

Robinson  Crusoe,  203-4 
De  La  Mare,  W.,  253 
Disraeli,  189,  256,  257 
Dodgson,  206,  207,  241,  253 

Alice  in  Wonderland,  18,  21, 

25'3-94 
Through  the  Looking-Glass, 

256,  257,  270,  285-7 

Don  Quixote,  198 


295 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 
Donne,  80,  82,  84,  85,  126,     Green,  Robert,  The  Honour- 


able    History     of    Friar 
Bacon  and  Friar  Bungay, 

31-4 
Grierson,  H.  J.  C,  75 


138,  183,  261 

Crosse,  The,  78-80 

Exstasie,  82,  133-5 

First  Anniversary,  80,  139 

Holy  Sonnets,  74-7 
Dostoevsky,  17 
Drury,  Elizabeth,  84 
Dryden,  35,  196,  198,201,203      Hegel,  22 

Aurungzehe,  57  Hemingway,  10 

Marriage  a  la  Mode, 29 ,46-48      Herbert,  George,  79 

Herrick,  85 
Eliot,  T.  S.,  57,  66,  85 

Elizabeth,  70,  71,  73,  84,  186 

Euripides,  65 


Hakewill,  77 
Handel,  56,  213 


Faraday,  267 
Farquhar,  281 
Fielding,  197,  201,  249 

Jonathan  Wild,  58,  219 
Flying  Post,  The,  214 
Frank,    Leonard,    Carl    and 

Anna,  3 
Frazer,  The  Golden  Hough,  21 
Freud,  67,  224 


Hobbes,  60,  200 
Holbein,  14 
Homer,  140 

Iliad,  143 
Horace,  61,  68 
Housman,  58 

Last  Poems,  57 
Huxley,  254,  256 

Jacobs,  W.  W.,  7 
James  I,  70 
Johnson,  2.24 
Jones,  Ernest,  60,  66 
Jonson,  $6,  84 


Gandhi,  272 
Gay,  189 

The  Beggar  s  Opera,  31,  56,      KafFka,  Franz,  257 


195-249,  259 
Gilbert,  W.  S.,  zi 
Goldsmith,  258 
Gordon,  285 
Gorki,  18 
Gray— 

The  Bard,  207 

Ehgy,  4-5 


Keats,  207 

Kingsmill,   Hugh,   Frank 
Harris,  58 

Lath-m,  Miss,  70,  71 
Lawrence,  D.  H.,  7,  113,  128, 

135,  197 
Legouis,  82,  135 


296 


INDEX 


Lewis,  Wyndham,  27,  277 
Liddcll,  Alice,  254 
Longinus,  61,  68 

Maeterlinck,  66 

Malraux,  Andre,  La  Condi- 
tion Humaine,  10 

Marlborough,  200,  220 

Marlowe,  44,  57,  76,  179 
Faustus,  73 
Jew  of  Malta,  $6 
Tamburlane,  73 

Marvell,  Thoughts  in  a  Garden, 
119-45 

Marx,  206 

Masson,  152,  174 

M'Dougall,  67 

Middlcton — 

The  Changeling,  27,  48-52 
Women  Beware  Women,  55 

Milton,  82,  132,  143,  149-91 
L*  Allegro,  187 
Paradise  Lost%  153-91 
Paradise  Regained,  182 

Miracle  Plays,  28 

Mother  Goose* s  Melodies,  258 

Newbury,  John,  258 
New  Leader,  8 

Pearce,  Zachary,  149,  150, 
154,  160,  161,  162-3, 
170,  185 

Peele,  Arraignment,  71 

Poc,  13,  59 

The  Maelstrom,  122 


Pope,  3,  57,  61,  64,  201,  250, 
259 

Epistle  to  Augustus,  232 

Essay  on  Man,  178 
Powell,  Mary,  180 
Powys,  T.  F.,  7 
Proust,  277 

Radck,  19 

Ralegh,  179 

Pilgrim  to  Pilgrim,  70 
Twelfth  Book  of  the  Ocean 
to  Cynthia,  69-70 

Raleigh,  Sir  Walter,  103, 
153,  168 

Richards,  I.  A.,  119 

Coleridge  on  Imagination,  136 
Science  and  Poetry,  58 

Robertson,  39,  45 

Rowley,  48 

Saintsbury,  47 
Saurat,  33 
Scott,  tNg 

Shakespeare,  30,  36,  38,  41, 
44,  49,  64,  65,  89-115, 
233,234 

As  You  Like  It,  13,  136-8 

Cymbeline,  196 

Hamlet,  66,  in 

Henry  IV,  29,  43-6,  103-9 

Henry  V,  103 

Henry  VI,  103 

Lear,  54 

Phoenix  and  the  Turtle,  The, 
139 


297 


SOME  VERSIONS  OF  PASTORAL 


Shakespeare — continued 
Sonnets,  89-101 
Troilus  and  Cressida,  34-42, 

44 
Winter's  Tale,  196 
Shaw,  65,  76,  113 
Shelley,  189,  207 
Sheridan,  241-81 

The  Critic,  290 
Smart,  56 

Hymn  to  David,  120-1 
Smith,  James,  80,  139,  140 
Song  of  Solomon,  97 
Spencer,  Herbert,  292 
Spenser,  Edmund,  20 

Faery  Queen,  54 

Hymn  to  Love,  138 

Shepherd's  Calendar,  71 
Stein,  Gertrude,  15 
Swift,  62,  133,  213,  243,  250 

Gulliver,  59,  265,  267 
Swinburne,  48 

Before  a  Crucifix,  57 
Sydney,  Arcadia,  54,  196,  198 

Temple,  Sir  William,  259 
Tennicl,  255,  271 
Tennyson,  254,  287 
Maud,  285 


Thackeray,  241 
Tourneur,     Cyril,     The 
Atheist's  Tragedy,  53 
Trollope,  242 

Velasquez,  49 
Verrall,  65 
Vergil,  178 
Aeneid,  3 

Walpole,  199,  219 

Weakest  goes  to  the  Wall,  The, 

70  ' 
Webster,  49,  280 
Whistler,  284 
Whitman,  128 
Wilberforce,  Bishop,  254 
Wilde,  98,  208,  243,  283,  284 
Willey,  Basil,  180 
Woolf,  Virginia,  149 
Wordsworth,  79,   128,   13 1, 
177,    188-9,    206,    207, 
261,  263,  265,  279,  293 
Ode  to  Intimations,  260 
Prelude,  189 
Resolution  and  Independence, 

263 
We  arc  Seven,  260 

Zuckermann,  213 


298 


93 


Printed  iu  Great  Britain 

by  T.  and  A.  Constable  Ltd. 

at  the  University  Press 

Edinburgh 


> 


/, 


1 


•  ■    -■mm 


