..J.. 


^^E^ 


SOME  RECENT  PRIVATELY  PRINTED 
AND  LIMITED  EDITIONS 


f  BLACK  LUST  hy  Jean  de  Villiot 

The  love  and  hate  of  a  white  woman  for  a  black  Mohammedan 
chief  forms  the  overtone  of  this  historic  novel  whose  back- 
ground paints  the  native  tribes  in  the  Valley  of  the  Nile  before 
the  turn  of  this  century.  This  diabolic  novel  is  an  encyclopedia 
of  venery,  a  kaleidoscope  of  perversions,  a  jungle  of  horrors. 
Limited  to  2000  press-numbered  copies. 

\  CHASTITY  BELTS  by  Esar  Levine 

The  only  full-length  account  ever  written  of  one  of  the  strangest 
methods  devised  to  bridle  the  privates  of  women.  This  volume 
is  a  factual  encyclopedia  of  the  subject  for  the  author  has  in- 
cluded anecdotes,  secret  memoirs,  court  trials,  short  stories,  news- 
paper accounts  and  numerous  full-page  illustrations  of  these  belts. 

Limited  to  2000  press-numbered  copies. 


^  EUNUCHS,  ODALISQUES  AND  LOVE 
by  Nicholas  Fromaget 

A  fascinating  novel  of  oriental  passion  dealing  with  a  French- 
man's amatory  adventures  in  Turkey.  The  protagonist  is  an  in- 
satiable lover  who  slakes  his  lust  at  every  opportunity  and  whose 
venereal  hazards  reveal  the  extravagance  of  harem  sexuality  and 
the  parts  played  by  eunuchs  and  odalisques. 
Limited  to  2000  press-numbered  copies. 


f  MADAME  SEX  by  Dr.  Isaac  Goldberg 

Modern  sex  psychology  has  opened  the  door  to  a  new  gallery  of 
women,  passion-driven  erotomaniacs  of  different  types.  This  is 
the  first  collection  of  short  stories  ever  written  about  them.  Grue- 
some perversions  rub  shoulders  with  normal  love,  while  the  comic 
profundity  of  these  stories  recalls  Pantagruel  and  Panurge. 
Limited  to  2000  privately  printed  copies. 

%  THE  GODS  OF  GENERATION  by  J.-A.  Dulaure 

This  immense  history  is  the  most  documented  work  on  erotics 
ever  published  by  the  Panurge  Press.  The  author's  enormous  re- 
searches and  lengthy  textual  matter,  and  his  hundreds  of  notes 
and  annotations,  comprise  the  most  comprehensive  guide  on  the 
worship  of  obscene  Gods  and  phallic  religions. 
Limited  to  2000  privately  printed  copies. 

%  EROTIC  FAIRY  TALES  by  the  Abbe  de  Voisenon 

These  superlative  fairy  tales  are  for  adults  only.  They  discuss 
the  eternal  batde  of  the  sexes  and  are  liberally  sprinkled  with  high 
lights  on  marital  indelicacies,  the  higher  mysteries  of  esoteric  pas- 
sion, complicated  cuckoldry,  sophisticated  tomfooleries,  indiscreet 
virgins,  and  hilarious  erotic  adventures  of  all  sorts. 
Limited  to  1000  press-numbered  copies. 

%  THE  ARABIAN  ART  OF  LOVE 
by  Carlisle  E.  Viman 

This  work  deals  with  Arabic  love-life  in  the  most  intimate  and 
serious  way,  quoting  hundreds  of  holy  sheiks  and  others  on  the 
most  esoteric  phases  of  physical  love-making.  It  includes  fas- 
cinating miscellanea  on  curious  sexualia,  electuaries,  erotic  tales, 
aphrodisiacs,  facetious  folklore,  and  al  munkir. 
Limited  to  2000  privately  printed  copies. 

f  THE  MERRY  NIGHTS  of  Straparola 

This  collection  of  panurgic  stories  is  a  veritable  handbook  on 
amorous  intrigue  but  it  is  vastly  more  facetious  than  the  Hep- 
tameron  or  the  Decameron.  Its  contents  include  Trust  Not  a 
Friend,  The  Way  of  All  Wives,  A  Mistake  in  the  Dark,  The 
Revenge    Indelicate,    Cuckolds   Will    Be    Cuckolds,    etc. 

Limited  to   1000  press-numbered  copies. 


ALL  PANURGE  PRESS  PUBLICATIONS 
ARE  $5.00  EACH 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 


Of  this  work, 

the  erotic  history  of  France 

and  its  erotic  literature, 

only  woo  copies  have  been  printed 

for  private  collectors  of 

panurgics  and  sexualia 


e^e^e^E^e^e^(!^^!^?^e^e^«^e^e^ 


THE 


EKOTIC  HISTORY 


OF  FBANCE 


INCLUDING  A  MISTOEY  OF  ITS 


EBOTIC  LITEMATUKE 


BY  MENEY  L.  MAECHANB 


YOEK  •  PRIVATELY  FEINTED 
THE  FANUEGE  PEESS 
1933 


Copyright,  i^sSy  ^y  The  Panurge  Press,  Inc. 
Printed  in  U.S.A. 


INTRODUCTION  PAGE  1 5 


BOOK  I  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 


CHAPTER  PAGE 


I  27 

SEXUALITY  IN  MEDIEVAL  FRANCE 

II  35 
INDECENT  FABLIAUX  AND  FARCES 

III  45 
TROUBADOURS  AND  COURTS  OF  LOVE 


BOOK  II  THE  SIXTEENTH  AND  SEVENTEENTH 

CENTURIES 


IV  59 
THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY 

V  75 
THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


BOOK  III  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 


VI  93 
THE  GOLDEN  AGE  OF  LOVE 

VII  114 
ANTI-ROYAL  AND  ANTI-CHURCH  LITERATURE 


11 


CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 


VIII 


IX 


XI 


XII 


XIII 


XIV 


XVI 


XVII 


XVIII 


XIX 


THE  OBSCENITY  OF  THE  THEATRES 

VENEREAL  VERSES 

SECRET  CLUBS  AND  PERVERSIONS 

CELEBRATED  PORNOLOGISTS 

OTHER  CELEBRATED  PORNOLOGISTS 

PORNOGRAPHIA  RAMPANT 

BOOK  IV  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 

THE  NAPOLEONIC  REGIME 


THE  HEYDAY  OF  OBSCENE  ART 

THE  REIGN  OF  THE  PROSTITUTE 

MASTERS  OF  EROTIC  LITERATURE 

PUBLISHERS  OF  EROTICA 


134 
142 

147 

154 

174 
198 


213 


XV  220 

BABYLON  ON  THE  SEINE 


238 
244 

253 

271 


XX  280 

VENUS  VICTORIOUS 


12 


INTRODUCTION 
THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 


THIS  book  sets  itself  the  interesting  and  intriguing  task  of  writing 
the  erotic  history  of  France  and  its  erotic  literature.  Perhaps 
someone  will  inquire  why  we  choose  such  a  theme,  and  what  profit 
is  to  be  derived  from  a  knowledge  of  the  numerous  piquant  and 
gallant  details  that  we  shall  meet  on  our  quest.  It  is  possible,  too,  that 
some  reader  will  wonder  about  the  latter  part  of  the  title:  The 
History  of  French  Erotic  Literature.  What  is  the  justification  for 
this  phrase?  Let  us  spend  a  few  moments  now  in  trying  to  under- 
stand why  France  should  be  chosen  as  the  subject  of  an  erotic 
history;  why  the  history  of  the  vast  system  of  practices  connected 
with  the  most  unbridled  and  diverse  expression  of  sex  life  in  the  land 
of  the  Gauls  is  of  importance  for  us.  Then  we  shall  be  in  a  position 
to  realize  the  tremendous  value  of  French  erotic  writings,  which 
shall  be  our  guides  in  our  expedition  through  this  land  of  love. 

It  is  a  nice  question  whether  there  is  an  essential  and  an  all- 
pervasive  difference  between  the  different  races  of  mankind.  But 
whatever  be  the  truth  about  this  very  moot  question,  it  is  an  indis- 
putable fact  that  France  has  for  many  centuries  been  renowned  as 
the  home  par  excellence  of  eroticism,  and  Frenchmen  as  the  typical 
representatives  of  the  erotic  spirit  and  practitioners  of  the  erotic  art. 
This  by  no  means  implies  that  there  is  something  inherent  in  the 
French  which  impels  them  to  this  type  of  activity.  We  are  merely 
stating  a  fact  which  can  be  buttressed  by  numerous  phenomena, 

15 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
historical  and  sociological.  Many  investigators  have  asserted  the  fun- 
damental unity  of  all  nations,  and  have  even  denied  that  there  has 
been  any  development  through  the  course  of  history,  by  which  mod- 
ern men,  for  instance,  have  come  into  the  possession  of  new  traits  of 
character  or  elements  of  physical  structure.  The  French  critic — 
Remy  de  Gourmont — has  gone  so  far  as  to  develop  a  quasi-law  of  his- 
tory which  claims  that  in  all  ages  and  in  all  climes  men  are  alike,  and 
the  same  diversities  which  separated  classes  of  men  and  individuals 
at  a  bygone  age  are  still  observable  today,  mutatis  mutandis. 

If  this  view  is  true,  and  we  incline  to  believe  that  it  is,  then  the 
sources  for  the  development  and  importance  of  the  erotic  motif 
in  French  culture  are  to  be  led  back  not  to  certain  structural 
peculiarities  of  the  French  people  but  to  certain  peculiarities  in 
their  history  and  sociological  organization.  Just  at  what  date  these 
traits  first  became  manifest  it  is  difficult  to  assert  with  precision. 
During  the  Renaissance  period,  when  new  blood  began  to  run  in 
the  veins  of  the  awakened  and  enlightened  Europeans,  and  the  first 
fruits  of  the  new  culture  became  documented  in  literature,  we  are 
already  able  to  discern  the  strength  of  this  motif.  Of  course  at  this 
time  other  nations  of  Europe,  the  Italians  principally  and  also  the 
Germans,  were  producing  similar  works.  Indeed,  the  beginning  of 
this  literature  as  forsooth  of  the  whole  drive  and  potency  of  the 
Renaissance  is  to  be  seen  in  Italy;  but  at  any  rate  this  direction 
manifested  in  literature  was  the  reflection  of  tendencies  continued, 
developed,  and  augmented  which  at  a  later  date  made  France  the 
mundane  residence  of  Venus  in  Europe. 

There  are  so  many  items  which  testify  to  the  importance  of 
France  in  this  connection  that  it  is  difficult— nay,  impossible — ^to 
list  them  all.  Only  a  few  facts  and  illustrations  will  now  be  cited 
as  witnesses  to  the  truth  of  our  contention.  We  appeal  first  to  the 
testimony  of  language.  The  existence  of  certain  words  in  a  language 

16 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FRANCE 
prove  that  institutions  represented  by  these  words  are  found  among 
the  people  speaking  that  language.  If  these  words  have  been  bor- 
rowed by  other  languages,  it  is  clear  that  the  institutions  were 
borrowed  from  the  people  who  first  employed  these  words.  Thus, 
many  musical  terms  show  their  Italian  origin;  psychological  terms 
their  German  origin;  etc.  Characteristically  enough,  the  greatest 
number  of  erotic  words  spring  from  French. 

Furthermore,  France  has  long  been  recognized  as  the  source  of 
all  types  of  art  and  literature  connected  with  the  erotic  sphere.  In 
modem  times,  France  has  been  the  producer  of  novels,  tales  and 
dramas  dealing  in  divers  ways  and  from  exceedingly  varied  view- 
points with  sexual  love.  France  exported  these  products  to  every 
other  nation  of  the  world.  Why  is  it,  for  instance,  that  when  we 
think  of  the  French  influence  we  immediately  conjure  up  certain 
notions  about  the  naughtiness  and  venereal  escapades  of  its  char- 
acters.5  Why  is  it  that  the  majority  of  erotic  books  are  French? 
Why  is  it  that  naughty  picture  cards  and  various  other  indecent 
drawings  have  been  marketed  to  the  rest  of  the  world  from  France.^ 
Do  not  these  facts  serve  to  bolster  up  the  truth  of  our  contention 
about  the  primacy  of  France  in  the  erotic  realm! 

Finally,  Paris  has  long  been  the  center  of  modes  in  dress  for  the 
world,  from  which  new  modes  are  dictated  and  the  chic  of  the 
world  created.  Any  adult  who  has  tried  to  understand  the  delirious 
and  apparently  chaotic  alternation  of  modes  and  fashions  and  de- 
signs, especially  in  women's  clothing,  will  conclude  without  any 
shadow  of  a  doubt  that  the  anthropologist  is  right.  The  latter  con- 
tends that  clothes  were  not  invented  because  women  were  modest, 
but  because  they  were  immodest.  That  is,  women  did  not  cover 
their  nakedness  because  they  were  disturbed  at  being  seen  in  full 
view.  Women  concealed  part  of  their  anatomy  in  order  to  make 
themselves  more  seductive.  In  short,  women  concealed  those  por- 

17 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOHY  OF  FEANCE 
rions  of  themselves  which  were  not  altogether  esthetically  satisfac- 
tory in  order  to  increase  their  charm  for  men.  Now  when  women 
reveal  their  nakedness  today,  or  carefully  selected  and  pampered 
portions  of  their  nakedness,  they  are  carrying  out  this  motive  attrib- 
uted to  them  by  the  student  of  human  evolution.  Fashions  change, 
apart  from  the  sheerly  economic  motives  of  profit  to  designers  and 
manufacturers  of  clothing,  because  it  is  necessary  for  new  attrac- 
tions to  be  revealed  to  unsuspecting  man:  a  little  more  of  the  leg  or 
a  little  less — a  little  more  of  the  breast  or  a  little  less — a  little  differ- 
ent outline  to  the  female  form,  more  flesh  or  less — these  are  the 
dominant  motivations  for  the  unaccountable  panorama  of  the  mode. 
Is  it,  therefore,  to  be  wondered  at  that  Paris,  which  more  than  any 
other  city  in  the  world  has  cultivated  the  erotic,  and  has  undergone 
a  long  and  rigorous  schooling  in  indulging  every  whim  and  every 
taste  in  the  erotic,  is  also  the  arbiter  of  destiny  in  fashion? 

These  remarks  on  the  importance  of  France  as  the  center  of 
erotic  activity  in  the  Occident  during  modem  times  will  serve 
to  justify  the  present  project  of  writing  an  erotic  history  of  France. 
We  are  now  ready  to  take  up  the  question  about  the  sources  of 
this  history.  To  what  materials  or  phenomena  shall  we  turn  for 
information  about  the  successive  stages  of  this  development?  There 
are  many  possible  procedures. 

One  might  go  through  the  files  of  French  legal  archives  and 
select  all  matters  connected  with  the  erotic  realm.  If  we  were  to 
trace  all  laws,  injunctions,  prohibitions,  litigations,  etc.  connected 
with  this  field,  and  then  systematize  and  analyse  them,  we  should 
certainly  be  on  the  way  to  tracing  the  history  of  these  questions 
in  France.  Thus  we  might  trace  all  the  laws  connected  with  the 
regimentation  of  brothels  and  prostitutes  and  thus  arrive  at  the 
history  of  this  question;  or  we  might  collect  all  references  to  incest, 
both  prohibitions  or  records  of  cases,  and  thus  develop  the  history 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FHANCE 
of  this  aspect  of  erotic  affairs,  all  the  while  proceeding  on  the 
very  obvious  assumption  that  whatever  becomes  recorded  in  the 
law  is  not  an  abstract  invention  or  speculation  but  rather  a  record 
of  actual  existing  conflicts  in  human  affairs. 

Closely  allied  to  this  procedure  would  be  the  analysis  of  the 
church's  reaction  to  the  domain  of  sex.  If  we  were  to  collect  the 
sermons,  pamphlets,  etc.,  composed  on  these  themes,  and  if  we 
were  to  collate  the  decisions  of  ecclesiastical  bodies  concerning 
the  erotic,  we  should  have  an  enormous  mass  of  materials  for  tracing 
the  history  of  this  problem. 

Another  approach  would  be  through  the  realm  of  medicine, 
medical  history  and  vital  statistics.  Using  this  road  we  might  for 
instance,  examine  all  available  records  concerning  the  origin  and 
spread  of  syphilis  in  France,  and  by  tracing  the  distribution  of 
this  plague  throughout  France,  and  the  references  to  it  in  various 
sources,  we  should  be  in  a  position  to  understand  the  significance 
of  this  malady  and  draw  some  conclusions  about  the  conditions 
responsible  for  it.  This  would  be  a  clear  contribution  to  the  erotic 
history  of  France  and  a  compilation  of  such  monographs  would 
undoubtedly  form  a  corpus  of  writings  of  great  importance. 

Another  way  would  be  to  collect  the  low  linguistic  usages,  the 
"bad  words"  of  the  French  language,  and  by  examining  the  data 
of  speech,  endeavor  to  determine  where  and  whence  certain  words 
entered  the  language.  By  doing  so  and  by  studying  the  semantic 
changes  in  those  words  which  have  taken  on  a  new  and  erotic 
coloring,  we  could  write  the  erotic  history  of  France  from  the 
philological  point  of  view.  This  effort  would  be  considerably 
supplemented  by  the  cognate  activity  of  collecting  the  folk  songs 
and  proverbs  of  the  land,  which  would  generally  afford  us  fuller 
insights  than  single  words. 

Or  we  might  make  a  collection  of  objects  connected  with  the 

19 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FKANCE 
domain  of  sex,  all  sorts  of  appliances  for  aiding  and  augmenting 
carnal  pleasures,  for  abetting  the  normal  and  appeasing  the  perverse 
impulse.  Such  a  collection  properly  labeled  and  understood,  would 
be  an  invaluable  museum  for  the  illustration  of  actual  practices 
to  professional  men  and  sociologists. 

We  come  at  last  to  a  different  method.  If  we  were  to  examine 
all  the  paintings  and  sculptures  that  are  concerned  with  love,  naked- 
ness, sex  activity,  etc.,  we  should  have  an  excellent  method  of 
seeing  the  impact  of  this  problem  upon  successive  ages.  We  are, 
therefore,  now  no  longer  dealing  directly  with  the  materials  of 
sex  life  or  their  relation  to  legal,  ecclesiastical,  or  medical  history, 
but  rather  with  their  reflection  in  the  mirror  of  art.  The  painter 
and  sculptor  hold  the  mirror  up  to  nature,  and  the  glimpses  they 
capture  and  fix,  remain  forever.  We  can  read  to  all  eternity  the 
message  they  wrote.  The  literary  figure  we  have  just  employed 
brings  us  to  another  and  perhaps  the  greatest  art — the  art  of  letters. 
There  may  be  great  and  far  reaching  changes  in  literature  as  well 
as  in  the  other  arts.  But  after  all,  the  meaning  with  which  words 
are  laden  cannot  be  dispelled  and  forgotten.  The  word  heard  and 
spoken  afar  off,  retains  for  us  today,  a  goodly  portion  at  least,  of 
the  efficacy  and  verity  it  possessed  then.  Hence,  we  shall  choose 
to  trace  the  erotic  history  of  France  as  reflected  chiefly  in  its 
literature,  the  most  potent  of  the  productions  of  men.  We  shall 
not  altogether  overlook  the  other  methods  we  have  enumerated, 
and  whenever  possible  shall  employ  them,  but  primarily  our  concern 
is  with  what  French  writers,  poets  and  prosaists,  wrote;  what  they 
saw  and  immortalized  in  their  words. 

The  Gallic  spirit  was  well  equipped  to  treat  of  these  themes, 
indeed,  in  a  fashion  unexampled  among  other  nations.  What  do 
we  think  of  in  the  complex  of  vague  notions  that  are  comprised  in 
Vesprit  gaulois?  A  certain  clarity  and  lucidity  combined  with  a 

20 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
marvellous  grace  and  finished  levity.  Freedom,  wit,  polish,  are 
not  these  the  inevitable  characters  of  the  French  mind  and  lan- 
guage? Hence,  in  dealing  with  the  enormous  mass  of  materials 
connected  with  the  most  dominant  impulse  of  living  things  after 
food-hunger,  which  among  human  beings  may  assume  forms  and 
consequences  awful  and  unspeakably  nasty;  in  addition  to  being 
responsible  for  exquisite  joys,  and  happy,  ordered  lives,  can  we 
not  see  the  importance  of  the  French  gifts  of  mind?  It  is  their 
grace,  and  charm  and  wit  that  lightens  serious  issues;  and  their 
lucidity  that  clarifies  them  to  us  in  proper  perspective.  The  love 
of  leisure  of  these  people,  their  joy  in  the  exercise  of  the  body  in 
all  its  senses,  and  of  the  mind  in  all  its  capacities — these  qualities 
have  made  France  one  of  the  greatest  and  wisest  nations  in  Christen- 
dom. And  if  we  cannot  condemn  too  severely  their  sexual  un- 
restraint and  perversities,  let  us  remember  that  their  high  and 
ennobling  virtues  vastly  outweigh  their  eroticism. 

The  merry  French  people  love  words  and  are  happy  in  the 
exercise  of  the  pen.  They  love  their  language  as  no  other  nation  and 
for  many  centuries  have  so  cultivated  it  until  it  has  become  the 
most  flexible  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  trained  writer.  In 
France,  one  can  say  everything — and  that  which  is  said  is  tolerable 
even  to  the  modest  ear,  because  the  magic  of  the  language  enables 
one  to  overlook  the  subject  matter.  On  the  whole,  the  opinion  of 
Engel,  expressed  in  his  Psychology  of  French  Literature,  is  quite 
true:  that  the  preponderance  of  sexual  matters  in  French  literature 
is  much  less  to  be  attributed  to  unrestrained  lustfulness  than  to 
the  love  of  laughter.  The  French  are  not  so  much  sexually  passion- 
ate as  sexually  witty.  The  jokes  and  amorous  adventures  of  the 
middle  ages  known  as  fabliaux  never  show  a  trace  of  really  glowing 
sensuality.  They  are  smirking  tales  of  doubtful  content  told  and 
punctuated  by  the  laughter  of  fauns.  The  everlasting  butt  of  the 

21 


THE  EBOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 
humor  in  these  tales  is  the  deceived  husband;  and  up  to  this  day 
in  the  very  latest  boulevard  comedies  the  husband  bears  the  brunt 
of  the  laughter,  even  -with  a  masculine  audience.  Moreover,  Rabelais 
scarcely  a  page  of  whose  work  is  free  from  sexual  matters  or 
suggestions,  has  treated  the  sexual  relationship  with  rough  rudeness 
but  without  any  evil  intent,  without  any  secondary  object,  and 
merely  as  material  for  the  satisfaction  of  his  own  love  of  laughter, 
and  that  of  others.  There  is  no  question  of  earnestness,  passion, 
or  obscenity.  The  same  is  true  of  another  old  book,  one  of  the  worst 
of  this  sort:  The  Hundred  Merry  Tales  of  Antoine  de  la  Sale 
in  which  we  discover  utter  shamelessness,  and  reckless  wit,  but 
nothing  that  resembles  real  participation  by  the  author  in  the  sensual 
activities  of  the  book. 

Nevertheless,  the  conclusions  of  Engel  apply  to  only  one  part 
of  French  erotic  literature.  One  need  merely  mention  the  erotic 
writers  of  the  eighteenth  century:  Sade,  Bretonne,  Dulaurens;  and 
such  nineteenth  century  authors  as  Maupassant,  Zola,  Flaubert, 
Gautier  and  Verlaine,  to  prove  that  all  these  poets  and  authors 
were  very  much  in  earnest  about  their  eroticism.  For  them,  it  was 
not  always  the  love  of  laughter,  but  vital  interest  in  the  material 
that  directed  their  pens  to  their  artistic  tasks. 

And  now  one  word  more  concerning  the  plan  of  the  book.  The 
great  age  of  uncontrolled  love  in  France  is  the  eighteenth  century. 
More  than  during  the  Renaissance,  and  no  less  than  the  classic 
period  of  antiquity,  sex  ruled  life  at  that  time.  Naturally,  literature 
mirrored  the  reign  of  sex  in  countless  productions  which  surpass 
any  previous  or  subsequent  period  in  the  erotic  history  of  France. 
This  representation  of  the  classical  age  of  French  love  will  be  the 
climax  of  the  book;  the  remainder  will  lead  up  to  and  away  from  it. 
The  beginning  will  treat  of  the  early  period  in  France,  the  age  of 
knighthood  and  chivalry,  the  rule  of  the  church  and  the  song  of 

22 


THE  EKOTIC  mSTOKY  OF  FMANCE 
the  troubadour.  There  will  be  passed  in  review  the  love  court, 
worship  of  the  Virgin,  fabhaux,  medieval  farces  and  other  sexual 
customs  of  that  time.  This  will  lead  into  the  sixteenth  and  seven- 
teenth centuries  which  foreshadow  even  greater  vices  and  sex- 
travagances. 

Then  the  grand  epoch  of  French  love  will  be  presented  with  its 
multitude  of  amazing  personalities  and  startling  incidents.  This 
will  be  followed  by  an  analysis  of  the  nineteenth  century,  so  near 
to  us  and  still  so  responsible  for  so  many  elements  of  our  life.  The 
book  will  close  with  the  last  years  of  the  nineteenth  century — for 
most  of  the  works  produced  by  later  writers  are  accessible  to 
discerning  readers.  Perhaps  at  a  later  day  it  will  be  opportune  to 
continue  this  history  through  the  first  decades  of  our  own  twentieth 
century. 

All  through  this  history  there  will  be  included  significant  surveys 
of  the  general  sexual  situation  of  the  times.  How  free  were 
conditions  really?  What  of  prostitution?  And  perversion?  What 
were  the  most  popular  forms  of  esoteric  amusement?  All  these  and 
many  other  questions  having  been  disposed  of,  we  shall  turn  to 
an  examination  of  the  literature  of  the  particular  periods,  first  ex- 
amining general  trends  and  then  describing  the  outstanding  eroti- 
cists  of  successive  ages.  One  very  unusual  feature  of  this  history 
is  the  emphasis  I  have  laid  upon  quotations  from  these  erotic 
authors.  Not  merely  are  their  most  important  works  listed,  but 
whenever  possible  I  have  given  a  synopsis  of  the  plot,  or  quoted 
a  typical  extract.  It  is  superfluous  to  indicate  the  value  of  this 
procedure.  Many  of  these  erotic  classics  are  inaccessible  and  it  is 
certainly  necessary,  in  a  serious  history  of  this  kind,  to  describe 
the  contents  of  these  works. 

Finally,  I  must  explain  that  the  presentation  which  follows  makes 
no  pretence  to  completeness.  Apart  from  the  utter  impossibility 

33 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FEANCE 
of  writing  a  complete  erotic  history  of  France,  such  an  attempt 
would  necessitate  the  insertion  of  obscene  details  which  it  is  neither 
my  purpose  nor  pleasure  to  record.  This  volume  has  been  written 
for  serious  adult  students  of  history  and  I  have  deliberately  ex- 
cluded anything  and  everything  which  would  appeal  to  porno- 
graphic-minded readers.  For  those  who  may  be  interested  in  more 
detailed  information,  the  bibliographical  works  of  Barbier,  Brunet, 
Gay  and  Querard  will  prove  invaluable. 


BOOK  I 
MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 


I 

SEXUALITY  IN  MEDIEVAL  FRANCE 


IT  IS  important  to  recognize  at  the  outset  of  our  investigation  into 
the  erotic  history  of  France  that  the  instinctive  endowment  of 
men  remains  unahered  through  all  the  ages  and  climes  of  the  world. 
In  our  introduction  we  were  concerned  to  establish  the  essential 
similitude  of  human  beings  in  space — that  is,  to  show  that  despite 
differences  of  nationality  and  race  the  fundamental  and  inexorable 
instincts  are  the  same  for  every  son  and  daughter  of  men.  This  fact 
must  be  remembered  when  we  come  to  study  the  history  of  the 
manifestations  of  the  dominant  human  impulse  within  the  nation  of 
France. 

This  sexual  instinct,  which  its  people  share  alike  with  the  rest  of 
the  universe,  has  never  throughout  the  ages  suffered  change  or 
diminution.  But  in  every  period  it  has  assumed  different  manifesta- 
tions depending  on  the  varied  sociological  conditions.  Factors  of 
politics  and  economics,  of  religion  and  philosophy,  in  short,  real 
and  ideal,  served  to  build  the  channels  for  the  flow  of  the  stream — 
but  the  stream  kept  flowing  unabated.  Rich  and  poor,  noble  and 
serf,  learned  and  ignorant,  all  were  impelled  by  love  and  felt  its 
sacred  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  profane  impulsion  and  acted  out 
their  instincts. 

Now  in  the  middle  ages,  what  were  the  dominant  forms  of 
sexual  activity?  Or  to  put  the  question  somewhat  differently:  how 
did  the  expression  of  the  sexual  instinct  and  the  forms  of  sexual  life 

27 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
differ  from  those  current  among  us  today?  We  all  somehow  have 
the  feeling  that  in  those  dim,  dark  days  of  the  medieval  period  all 
life  was  so  much  in  the  control  of  the  church,  that  certainly  the 
expression  of  the  most  heinous  of  all  the  instincts  according  to  the 
church's  doctrine  must  have  been  suppressed  to  the  point  of  ex- 
tinction. Before  we  can  answer  this  question  we  must  look  at  the 
structure  of  medieval  society. 

There  were,  as  is  well  known,  three  strata  in  this  social  structure. 
At  the  top  stood  the  king  and  his  court  of  nobles,  who  owned  vast 
tracts  of  land  as  feudal  lords.  These  fortunate  individuals  were  ex- 
empt from  work;  all  the  menial,  necessary,  productive  work  of  the 
world  was  accomplished  for  them  by  their  serfs,  whom  they  owned 
bodily.  All  that  they  gave  these  slaves  in  return  was  protection,  and 
in  those  lawless  times  this  was  not  a  small  thing;  there  were  continu- 
al wars  between  rival  feudal  barons  and  the  life  of  the  common  man 
was  of  no  importance.  Between  these  two  classes  was  the  clergy, 
who  ministered  to  both  the  upper  and  lower  group  alike,  but  was  in 
inclination  and  position  more  nearly  akin  to  the  former. 

Now  to  come  back  to  the  question  of  eroticism.  Despite  the  lip 
service  to  poverty,  chastity  and  obedience,  despite  the  glorification 
of  purit}",  the  actualization  of  these  ideals  remained  as  impossible  in 
the  religious  middle  ages  as  at  other  times.  Nature  can  only  be 
conquered  by  obeying  her,  taught  an  ancient  teacher;  and  the 
church  was  to  prove  for  itself  the  essential  verity  of  these  truths. 
Each  of  the  three  classes,  living  on  a  different  level  of  wealth,  po- 
sition, education  and  opportunity,  gratified  the  sex  instinct  in  its 
own  way,  but  they  had  this  in  common:  the  public  religiosity  of  the 
period  which  impressed  the  age,  did  not  alter  the  course  of  their 
instincts.  The  church  was  very  early  to  realize  this  and  hence  their 
institution  of  the  confessional.  What  is  the  latter  but  a  shrewd 
compromise  with  unalterable  life?  It  must  be  admitted  that  men  will 

28 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  EENAISSANCE 
sin.  If  the  church  is  incapable  of  damming  up  the  flow  of  passion, 
then  let  it  at  least  retain  some  measure  of  control  over  its  adherents 
by  ascertaining  where  the  flood  has  broken  the  dikes.  Let  them 
come  and  admit  their  sins.  Let  the  church  take  cognisance  of  them 
and  inflict  some  slight  penalty  for  them.  But  this  candid  capitulation 
to  sin  and  vice,  this  recognition  of  its  inevitability,  this  assignation  of 
slight  penalties  for  it,  are  they  not  all  admissions  of  defeat.^  Indeed 
are  they  not  even  greater  incitements  to  wickedness?  For  if  one  can 
get  off  so  lightly,  why  even  make  the  attempt  to  live  virtuously? 

Let  us  begin  with  the  lowest  class — the  serfs.  Poor,  miserable, 
utterly  ignorant,  worked  to  the  bone,  with  their  faces  ground  by 
poverty,  the  lives  of  this  class  were  certainly  nasty ,  brutish  and  short. 
It  is  no  wonder  then  that  there  were  frequent  infractions  of  virtue 
among  them.  Here  the  church  exercised  its  greatest  effect  but  even 
here  its  success  was  slight.  Chastity,  continence,  fidelity,  were  all  too 
infrequent,  and  again  and  again  we  shall  meet  literary  testimony  to 
these  evil  conditions.  Language  was  foul  and  coarse  and  there  was 
a  fierce  delight  in  unmitigated  ribaldry.  Girls  and  boys  lost  their 
virginity  very  young — and  hence  they  were  married  off  as  early  as 
possible  but  not  always  in  time,  in  spite  of  the  hurry.  The  girls  were 
continually  at  the  mercy  of  the  men  of  the  upper  classes,  and  pity 
the  pretty  or  shapely  one  especially.  Life  was  short  and  difficult — so 
sin  was  not  infrequent,  but  the  confessional  made  restitution.  The 
poor  had  their  own  brothels,  and  divers  other  forms  of  amusement 
of  a  similar  nature.  Early  they  developed  the  coarse  presentations 
which  were  combinations  of  miracle  play  and  farce.  The  life  of  the 
poor  was  then  what  it  has  always  been. 

The  general  uncertainty  of  life,  combined  with  the  vast  and  fairly 
unchecked  power  of  the  king,  and  to  a  lesser  degree  of  his  nobles, 
set  the  pace  for  their  life.  It  is  no  wonder  that  they  led  licentious 
lives  which  occasionally  assumed  titanic  proportions.  We  shall  read 

29 


THE  EBOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FBANCE 
later  of  the  sumptuous  gatherings  of  high  born  ladies  and  men  where 
the  foulest  talk  circulated;  and  of  the  almost  unbelievable  richness 
and  pomp  of  some  of  their  orgies  in  which  were  enacted  in  the  flesh, 
by  living  actors,  the  most  intimate  and  passionate  scenes.  Again,  one 
motive  for  the  ItaUan  invasion  of  Charles  viii  was  his  desire  for 
Italian  women,  and  as  we  shall  see  later,  he  has  left  us  vivid  records 
of  his  incredible  exploits  with  the  winsome  daughters  of  Latium. 
But,  we  are  inclined  to  ask,  what  of  knighthood?  Surely  there  was 
a  portion  of  medieval  society  which  was  different,  was  resplendent 
in  its  purity  and  high  ideality.  Unfortunately  we  discover  to  our 
great  disillusionment  that  this  institution  was  ridden  by  numerous 
foul  and  vicious  elements;  that  very  early  whatever  nobility  there 
may  have  been  in  knighthood  disappeared,  and  the  service  of  wo- 
man became  pretty  confined  to  one  area  or  function  of  the  woman. 
If  the  knight  did  battle  for  the  lady  and  went  to  extravagant  lengths 
in  his  ostentatious  fidelity  to  her,  like  wearing  a  lock  of  her  hair,  it 
was  for  a  purpose.  This  lock  of  hair  was  not  infrequently  plucked 
from  his  lady's  mons  veneris  as  we  shall  see  later.  This  institution 
ultimately  gave  rise  to  such  ugly  and  pervasive  abuses  that  it  had  to 
perish. 

In  connection  with  knighthood  and  the  service  of  women  a  word 
should  be  said  about  the  medieval  cult  of  love  which  found  its  ex- 
pression in  the  Minnesingers.  These  songs  composed  by  trouba- 
dours and  less  frequently  by  knights,  are  part  of  the  witness  to  the 
importance  of  woman  and  the  strength  of  love  even  in  the  middle 
ages.  As  we  shall  learn  the  tone  of  these  songs  is  none  too  exalted 
and  the  most  passionate  praises  are  sung  to  the  physical  beauties  of 
the  beloved,  and  particularly  to  her  sexual  attractions.  A  most  inter- 
esting and  unusual  feature  of  the  middle  ages  were  the  so-called 
courts  of  love.  Here  tournaments  of  words  are  supposed  to  have 
taken  place  in  connection  with  questions  of  love.  Or  to  vary  the 

30 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 
image,  and  to  bring  out  the  full  meaning  of  the  title,  certain  ques- 
tions of  the  love  life,  occasionally  ideal,  but  more  generally  very 
obscene,  were  argued  as  though  before  a  court;  and  at  the  close  of 
the  "litigation",  a  verdict  was  rendered.  These  decisions  were  fre- 
quently later  embodied  in  the  actual  life  of  the  given  groups  among 
whom  the  "court"  had  been  held. 

But  if  knighthood  was  not  all  a  flower,  the  church  was  not  all  a 
cloud  of  sacred  incense.  Indeed,  it  would  appear  as  though  the  most 
consistent  and  violent  transgressions  in  the  sphere  of  sex  were  com- 
mitted by  those  appointed  to  preach  sanctity  and  exemplify  it.  The 
idleness,  power,  and  ignorance  of  the  priests  combined  with  their 
unexampled  hold  upon  their  flock  due  to  their  status,  gave  them  an 
unlimited  field  for  the  exercise  of  their  lusts.  Outside  of  the  church 
and  within  it,  the  minds  and  bodies  of  many  of  the  church's  servi- 
tors served  not  the  Christ  but  Priapus.  Priests  were  known  as  vigor- 
ous lovers  and  were  sought  after  because  of  their  prowess  and 
discretion.  Indeed  all  doors  were  opened  to  them.  Their  churches 
were  occasionally  even  decorated  with  indecent  pictures;  and  the 
monasteries  and  nunneries  were  the  homes  of  the  most  indiscrimi- 
nate perversions.  Many  cloisters  were  virtually  brothels.  The  sup- 
pression upon  the  sexual  instinct  of  its  clergy  that  the  church  had 
sought  to  enforce  in  its  injunction  of  celibacy  proved  a  boomerang. 
Not  only  was  the  body  not  conquered  but  the  soul  was  frequently 
lost. 

Hence  it  is  no  wonder  that  the  priest  became  the  target  of  the 
most  vitriolic  criticism  and  condemnation.  His  immoral  life  was  an 
outrage  to  any  moral  sensibility  and  when  there  was  so  much  to 
lash,  we  must  not  be  surprised  at  the  quantity  of  anti-clerical  litera- 
ture or  its  intensity.  This  was  one  of  the  dominant  motifs  of  medie- 
val erotic  literature  and  has  lasted  into  modem  times.  Another  and 
related  theme  was  anti-royalism.  The  life  of  king  and  court  was  also 

31 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
soaked  in  pornographic  lubricity  and  its  putridity  stank  to  the  dis- 
tant clouds.  The  incessant  and  multiple  erotic  diligence  and  appli- 
cation, the  insatiability,  cruelty,  and  folly  of  king  and  noble  was  at 
the  base  of  the  mass  of  anti-royalist  writing.  Another  motif,  and  in- 
deed one  that  was  prior  to  the  ones  just  mentioned,  was  that  con- 
nected with  the  Virgin  Mary.  This  innocent  Mariolatry  was,  as  we 
shall  presently  discover,strangely  intertwined  with  erotical  elements 
of  all  sorts,  some  of  them  rather  shocking.  Indeed,  from  being  the 
symbol  of  immaculateness  and  pure  unsullied  mother  love  she  occas- 
ionally became  the  patron  saint  of  unchastity.  This  transformation 
is  interesting  in  correlation  with  the  decay  in  the  service  of  women 
noted  in  connection  with  knighthood.  What  is  most  striking  in 
many  medieval  writings  is  the  utter  disrespect  for  women,  the  un- 
speakably low  estimate  of  the  whole  female  sex,  who  are  representa- 
tive of  all  that  is  base  and  wicked  in  human  nature.  This  notion, 
partly  derived  from  experience,  partly  also  from  the  low  status  of 
woman,  was  however  to  a  great  measure  influenced  by  the  circula- 
tion, at  this  time,  of  a  whole  cycle  of  Buddhist  stories.  In  these  of 
course,  the  poor  female  of  the  species  is  nothing  but  a  sinner  and  a 
snare  for  the  entire  race  of  men. 

Let  us  say  a  word  now  about  the  literary  forms  of  medieval 
France  in  which  these  records  of  her  erotic  life  are  preserved.  A 
good  number  of  these  were  distinctive  of  that  period  and  have  not 
survived  it,  while  others  have  been  transmitted  but  have  assumed 
different  forms.  We  will  content  ourselves  with  a  mere  mention  of 
them  here,  and  leave  their  explanation  and  illustration  for  the  next 
two  chapters.  There  are  the  fabliau  (the  tale),  the  farce,  the  tensor 
(the  report  of  the  court  of  love)  the  dramatized  farce,  the  chanson 
(lyric)  and  brothel  poetry,  and  the  chronique  scandaleuse. 

One  final  remark  about  the  progress  of  medieval  French  erotic 
literature.  As  we  first  find  it  we  see  something  primitive,  coarse,  un- 

32 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  MENAISSANCE 
differentiated.  In  the  early  periods  there  are  few  genres,  and  in  the 
very  earliest  but  one,  the  fabliaux,  aside  from  the  panurgic  anecdote 
which  circulates  among  the  people.  These  are  rough,  rude,  and 
have  no  adumbration  of  artistic  skill.  As  time  goes  on  and  culture 
becomes  somewhat  more  differentiated,  more  genres  develop  and 
every  type  in  turn  becomes  refined  and  hence  amenable  to  artistic 
treatment.  During  the  twelfth,  thirteenth,  and  fourteenth  centuries, 
under  the  influence  of  the  troubadours  and  knightly  gallantry, 
much  is  achieved.  Poetry  is  developed  to  a  high  degree  and  even 
becomes  precious  and  affected.  The  lyric  poetry  of  the  fifteenth 
century  shows  sophistication  and  already  gives  finished  expression 
to  satire.  It  is  useful  to  remember,  although  it  is  not  entirely  relevant 
in  this  connection,  that  in  this  century  syphilis  began  to  ravage 
Europe,  fixing  men's  minds  to  the  realm  of  sex  as  never  before,  and 
giving  literature  many  new  themes  both  in  tragedy  and  in  satirical 
comedy. 

By  the  end  of  this  century  all  the  genres  of  the  medieval  period 
have  been  invented  and  are  in  active  currency.  Thus  the  fifteenth 
century  can  also  show  an  admirably  simple  and  genuinely  homely 
lyricism  in  Villon  for  example.  The  gradual  growth  of  cities  and 
the  rise  of  the  middle  class  created  a  need  for  a  new  type  of 
writing  more  suited  to  the  activities  of  this  group.  The  highfalutin, 
pampered,  precious  gallantry  of  knightly  writing  was  no  longer  to 
the  taste  of  these  groups,  for  it  corresponded  to  nothing  in  their  hfe. 
In  the  sixteenth  century  we  see  by  the  side  of  the  romance  of 
gallantry  like  Amadis  with  its  false  sentimentality,  erotic  produc- 
tions that  are  lyric,  naturalistic,  coarse  and  finished — in  short,  eroti- 
cism that  covers  the  whole  range  of  the  field.  The  foulest  brothel 
poetry  was  to  be  found,  but  also  the  most  deUcate  and  tender 
emotional  depictions;  earnest  reflectiveness  and  lewd  buffoonery 
both  were  to  be  met  in  the  extensive  erotic  literature  of  the  century. 

33 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
And  this  plethora  of  works  with  all  the  anti-clerical  and  anti-royalist 
broadsides  and  bawdy  outlines  of  sex  continued  into  the  seventeenth 
century.  The  growth  and  development  of  all  these  types  was  of 
course  only  a  reflection  in  letters  of  the  intensity  and  development 
of  the  actual  erotic  life  in  France.  We  now  turn  to  the  history  of  this 
life  as  reflected  in  these  literary  forms. 


CHAPTER  II 

INDECENT  FABLIAUX  AND  FARCES 


THE  literature  of  the  middle  ages  is  undoubtedly  much  beholden 
to  the  formation  and  propagation  of  the  legends  clustering 
around  the  Virgin.  The  immaculate  conception,  in  particular,  occu- 
pied the  medieval  poets  considerably.  One  gets  this  impression  not 
merely  from  the  frequency  with  which  this  matter  is  referred  to, 
but  also  from  the  intensity  of  the  efforts  many  of  the  poets  display  in 
espousing  and  establishing  their  belief.  To  what  extremes  this  ado- 
ration of  the  Virgin  could  go,  may  be  surmised  from  the  fact  that 
the  monks  of  the  Order  of  Mary  drank  up  dish  water  and  licked  the 
afflicted  parts  of  lepers  in  order  to  show  their  reverence  for  their 
saint. 

Mary  first  appears  in  the  old  French  fabliaux  and  jokes  as  the 
guardian  of  virginity;  but  she  frequently  also  comes  to  the  aid  of 
those  who  have  gotten  into  difficulties  of  their  own  making.  Thus, 
one  of  the  fabliaux  tells  of  a  woman  who  is  surprised  by  her  husband 
as  she  sports  with  a  cleric.  The  latter  dashes  out  of  bed  and  hides. 
When  the  husband  lies  down  beside  his  wife  she  jumps  out  of  bed 
and  simulates  insanity,  all  the  while  invoking  the  virgin;  while  the 
deceived  husband  seeks  to  calm  the  apparently  hysterical  wife,  the 
cleric  departs. 

Although  Mary  is  everywhere  represented  as  the  guardian  of 
virginity,  there  is  one  story  of  an  abbess  famed  for  her  piety,  chasti- 
ty and  service  to  Mary,  who  has  become  pregnant.  The  night  be- 

35 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
fore  delivery  she  fervently  implores  the  help  of  the  Virgin  to  save 
her  from  the  impending  shame;  whereupon  the  former  accompanied 
by  two  angels  comes  and  delivers  the  abbess,  keeping  her  body  in- 
tact, and  then  leaves  the  child  with  a  hermit.  There  are  other  stories 
in  which  the  Virgin  aids  in  illegitimate  enterprises,  notably  the  one 
of  Caeser  of  Heisterbach  in  which  she  substitutes  herself  for  the  lady 
superior  who  is  leading  a  whore's  life  outside  the  cloister. 

The  aid  of  the  Virgin  is  invoked  in  many  other  needs  and  distress- 
es: The  young  priest  who  has  fallen  in  love  with  a  young  girl  calls  up- 
on Mary  to  help  him  in  his  suit;  and  the  lover  abandoned  by  his  love, 
prays  for  a  change  of  heart  in  the  beloved,  or  offers  his  love  to  Mary 
who  is  faithful  and  never  deceives  a  lover.  In  this  feeling  there  are 
many  sensual  elements  as  numerous  fabliaux  will  attest  (collected  in 
the  book  of  Coincy ) .  Thus  Mary  reproaches  a  young  priest  who  has 
been  unfaithful  to  her  and  reminds  him  that  for  love  of  him  she  can 
open  the  heavens  and  admit  him  to  her  private  chambers  where  a 
rich  bed  holds  great  pleasures  of  love  in  store  for  them.  Or  when  a 
pious  sacristan  desires  to  kiss  her  feet  she  presents  her  face  instead. 
Or  when  a  young  priest  slips  a  ring  on  the  finger  of  a  statue  of  Mary 
but  becomes  unfaithful  to  her,  she  soon  permits  herself  to  be  won 
back  for  ever,  despite  her  jealousy.  In  these  instances  the  mother  of 
God  is  entirely  divested  of  her  divinity  and  is  regarded  merely  as 
the  loving,  yielding  woman. 

This  conception  is  rooted  in  the  amalgamation  of  earthly  and 
heavenly  love,  whose  essential  characteristics  are  its  duality,  and 
the  exclusion  of  any  other  loves.  Man  cannot  love  earthly  and 
heavenly  beings  at  the  same  time;  if  he  chooses  the  latter,  then 
there  is  an  end  to  loving  the  daughters  of  men.  Mary  takes  com- 
plete possession  of  the  lover's  emotions  and  for  that  reason  she  con- 
centrates upon  herself  not  merely  the  heavenly,  but  also  the  earthly 
love. 

36 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 
Comparatively  early,  however,  certain  frivolous  elements  ap- 
peared by  the  side  of  this  reverence  for  Mary.  Faithless  women 
invoked  her  as  witness  to  their  "innocence",  and  the  formulas 
were  more  than  coarse.  Tor  le  cul  Sainte  Marie\  'por  le  cul  dieu\ 
^par  les  boiaus  sainte  Marie'  are  very  frequent;  as  are  also  'par  le 
cortez\  'par  les  mamelles\  'par  les  denz\  'par  la  gorge',  'par  la  teste', 
'par  la  cuer  Sainte  Marie\  Among  the  common  people  such  thought- 
less and  frequently  vulgar  invocation  of  the  Virgin  was  customary. 
In  the  church  poems  of  Jesuit  Jacob  Pontanus,  the  poet  can  think 
of  nothing  more  beautiful  in  Mary  than  her  breasts,  nothing  sweeter 
than  her  milk,  nothing  more  excellent  than  her  belly. 

It  is  easy  to  understand  the  great  reverence  in  which  she  was  held 
when  one  realizes  her  utter  readiness  to  help  even  in  the  most  diffi- 
cult situations — a  fact  continually  taught  by  the  priests.  Indeed 
when  only  a  simple  prayer  was  necessary  to  avoid  unpleasant  con- 
sequences and  to  snap  one's  fingers  at  righteousness,  every  man  and 
woman  really  received  a  charter  of  license. 

It  is  well  known  that  the  later  comic  poets,  especially  those 
of  Italy  and  Germany,  owe  much  to  the  French  fabliaux,  which 
exercised  great  influence  and  inspired  a  very  large  number  of  de- 
rivative works.  What  is  a  fabliau?  Pilz  defines  it  as  the  poetic  rep- 
resentation of  an  adventure  that  takes  place  within  bounds  of 
normal  Hfe.  It  belongs  to  the  class  of  epic,  or  epic-didactic  poetry, 
and  its  chief  aim  is  to  amuse  and  to  arouse  laughter.  It  is  this  gen- 
eral character  which  is  indicated  by  the  designations  employed  by 
poets  to  characterize  their  works,  viz:  une  trufe,  une  boiirde,  une 
risee,  un  gab.  Later  on  a  moral  was  gradually  added.  With  few  ex- 
ceptions they  are  composed  in  octosyllabic  rhymed  couplets.  They 
are  the  poetry  of  the  rising  citizenry  as  opposed  to  the  ideals  of  the 
courdy-sentimental  poetry.  Three  elements  have  participated  in 
their  formation:  the  stream  of  Oriental  stories  with  their  Buddhis- 

37 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FEANCE 
tic  ideal  of  the  contempt  of  women,  the  low  status  of  the  minstrels, 
and  the  moral  decadence  of  the  clergy. 

The  Buddhistic  conception  denied  woman  every  right  and  per- 
sonal dignity,  regarding  her  as  the  inescapable  burden  of  man.  She 
it  is  who  keeps  him  in  the  bondage  of  sensuality  and  thus  prevents 
him  from  achieving  the  true  life.  Its  pronounced  ascetic  character 
inclines  to  emphasize  the  virtues  of  celibacy.  These  notions  reap- 
pear in  the  fabliaux  verses  in  their  low  valuation  of  marriage  and 
in  their  tendency  to  attribute  every  fiasco  and  error  of  the  man  to 
the  woman. 

The  motives  that  actuated  the  low-born  minstrels,  to  whose  sa- 
tiric streak  many  a  fabliau  owes  its  existence,  can  scarcely  be  called 
noble.  Ostentation,  combined  with  the  poverty  of  the  singers  and 
the  hope  for  jingling  rewards  if  they  would  flatter  the  opinions  of 
their  audiences,  supplied  ample  material  for  laughter.  This  re- 
sulted in  a  conscious  effort  to  pander  to  the  demands  of  their  pub- 
lic which  demanded  amusement  and  which  was  beginning  to  feel 
a  definite  antipathy  to  the  knightly  ideal  of  reverence  for  women. 
Furthermore,  the  disrespect  of  women  is  also  to  be  attributed  to 
the  disastrous  influence  of  the  clergy  from  whose  pens  so  many 
fabliaux  flowed;  celibacy,  too,  and  its  consequences  were  subject 
matter  for  satire. 

A  rude  peasantry  as  yet  untouched  by  refined  culture  tends  to 
seek  amusement  in  relating  the  occurrences  of  everyday  life,  since 
they  still  lack  what  seem  to  us  to  be  higher  interests.  These  tales 
treat  of  the  most  natural  things,  and  they  always  excite  the  laugh- 
ter of  the  ignorant  peasant  whose  greatest  joy  is  to  play  a  joke  or 
tell  about  it  later.  This  hearty  and  even  pleasant  tone  so  common 
in  German  jokes  despite  their  coarseness  is  alien  to  the  Frenchman 
who  toys  with  everything,  titters  over  everything,  is  always  on 
the  lookout  for  the  humorous  and  pursues  it  relentlessly  with  a 

3$ 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  KENAISSANCE 
measure  of  pride  in  his  own  superiority.  Yet  he  is  not  malicious; 
he  is  merely  light  and  frivolous.  Thus  he  laughs  at  the  stupid  hus- 
band who  has  had  horns  conferred  upon  him;  for  has  he  not  done 
the  very  same  many  times?  He  laughs  at  the  prostitute  cheated  of 
her  hire,  and  at  lovers.  He  laughs  at  stories  of  priests  which  may  or 
may  not  end  happily,  because  their  conduct  in  erotic  matters  is  so 
rarely  in  accordance  with  their  cowls  and  calling.  Above  all,  his 
laughter  is  aroused  by  the  cunning  of  women,  their  sensuality, 
their  fickleness,  falsehood,  wantonness  and  gluttony.  In  most  of 
the  fabliaux  the  whole  story  turns  on  an  erotic  situation  and  the 
erotic  joke  is  rarely  lacking.  The  greatest  joy  is  derived  from  those 
obscene  stories  where  woman  is  drawn  in  the  blackest  colors  pos- 
sible. This  leads  us  to  the  conclusion  that  these  stories  must  usually 
have  been  recited  in  the  absence  of  those  censured. 

Many  of  these  tales  excel  in  obscenity — and  a  few  of  the  im- 
portant ones  will  now  be  mentioned.  Le  sot  Chevalier  treats  of  a 
stupid  knight  who  is  instructed  by  his  mother-in-law  in  his  marital 
duties.  In  La  demoiselle  qui  ne  povoit  oir  parler  de  f outre,  a  young 
man  learns  of  the  daughter  of  a  certain  knight  who  can't  hear  the 
word  f outre  spoken  without  falling  into  a  faint.  He  decides  to  try 
his  luck  with  her  and  offers  his  services  to  that  knight.  He  is  very 
well  received  for  the  reason  that  he  too  becomes  unconscious  when- 
ever he  hears  lewd  words.  The  girl  falls  in  love  with  him  and  they 
become  a  happy  pair.  De  la  demoiselle  qui  neot  parler  de  fotre  qui 
fi'aust  mal  au  cuer  treats  of  a  similar  situation.  For  his  Bijoux  indis- 
crets,  Diderot  borrowed  from  the  work  of  Garin:  Le  chevalier  qui 
faisoit  parler  les  cous  et  les  culs.  This  ability  was  conferred  upon  a 
certain  noble  knight  by  two  fairies  in  reward  for  his  conduct.  The 
third  fairy  promises  that  he  will  be  well  received  everywhere.  The 
prophesy  is  fulfilled  and  he  becomes  a  wealthy  man.  In  De  VEscui- 

39 


THE  EHOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FEANCE 
ruel,  young  Robin  uses  the  inexperience  of  a  girl  in  order  to  win 
his  love. 

The  wanton  life  of  women  is  what  makes  most  of  the  fabliaux 
so  obscene.  These  women  enjoy  foul  words  and  coarse  jokes,  and 
delight  in  cynical  doubles  entrendre  and  filthy  oaths.  It  is  apparent 
from  many  references  in  the  poets  Preine  and  Bedier  that  women 
were  present  at  the  narration  of  such  obscene  tales  and  farces;  and 
Jean  de  Conde  does  not  hesitate  to  put  into  the  mouth  of  a  noble 
girl  obscene  words  and  sentiments  which  are  never  uttered  today. 

For  these  reasons  women  can  very  easily  be  won,  and  the  most 
threadbare  grounds  will  sufKce,  if  the  poets'  words  are  to  be  be- 
lieved. Thus,  a  priest  gets  into  the  bed  of  a  virgin  who  struggles 
against  his  attack  and  seeks  to  call  for  help.  He  asks  her  to  remain 
quiet  for  no  one  will  now  believe  in  her  innocence;  she  is  per- 
suaded and  capitulates.  And  why  not?  Girls  have  the  greatest  en- 
joyment in  sensual  pleasures;  and  no  matter  how  inexperienced 
they  are,  as  soon  as  the  first  bite  is  taken  of  the  apple,  they  are 
greedy  to  devour  the  rest.  A  girl  will  wish  to  be  married  only 
to  a  young,  strong  man.  Should  her  wish  not  be  gratified  and 
should  her  parents  compel  her  to  be  married  to  an  old  man,  she 
will  bewail  her  years.  The  young  woman  will  then  experience  as 
much  discomfort  in  her  enforced  continence  as  will  one  whose 
husband,  whether  owing  to  stupidity  or  inexperience,  does  not 
fulfill  his  connubial  obligations.  In  these  cases  of  course  the  lover 
must  suffer.  When  a  shield-bearer  laments  the  fact  that  he  has 
slain  his  love  by  the  intensity  of  his  embraces,  another  one  entreats 
him  for  the  same  death;  but  this  does  not  happen.  And  no  wonder, 
for  according  to  the  poets  one  woman  can  suck  the  marrow  out  of 
the  bones  of  a  hundred  men  before  she  will  be  satisfied,  and  to 
prove  this  point  they  resort  to  a  remarkable  exegesis  of  two  verses 
in  the  Bible  (Prov.  30,  15-16).  Even  the  nunneries,  which  should 

40 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 
be  the  seats  of  pious  discipline,  are  the  scenes  of  the  most  lascivi- 
ous lusts.  From  the  newest  novice  to  the  abbess,  all  feel  the  prick 
of  the  flesh.  Three  nuns  have  found  an  obscene  picture,  accord- 
ing to  another  version  un  vit  grossier  et  plenier,  and  bring  it  to  the 
abbess  to  assign  it  to  one  of  them.  The  latter  settles  the  dispute  by 
declaring  it  to  be  a  miniature  from  her  psalter  and  keeps  it  for  her- 
self. 

The  standing  figures  in  the  fabliaux  and  farces  are  the  priest, 
husband,  wife,  maid,  procuress,  knight,  student  and  serf. 

The  priest  is  represented  as  a  seducer  much  more  frequently  in 
the  fabliaux  than  in  the  middle  high  German  tales.  He  was  very 
much  sought  after  as  a  lover  and  there  were  good  grounds  for 
this,  as  a  daughter  once  explained  to  her  mother.  "The  knight  and 
the  slave  will  spread  abroad  their  exploits  with  me;  but  when  I 
have  lain  with  the  priest  he  must  shut  his  mouth  and  keep  still." 
It  was  to  his  advantage  as  well  as  the  girl's,  to  keep  the  matter 
secret.  As  a  result  of  his  inactive  and  voluptuous  life,  he  became  a 
bon  ouvrier  en  lit.  His  wiles  to  achieve  his  aims  are  numerous;  but 
once  apprehended  in  a  love  scene  he  is  revealed  as  a  ludicrous, 
tremulous  coward. 

The  stories  about  husbands  generally  do  not  deal  with  the  wise, 
superior  husband  who  sees  through  the  intrigues  of  his  wife  and 
understands  how  to  revenge  himself  upon  the  seducer,  or  how  to 
enjoy  some  escapades  of  his  own;  but  rather  with  the  common 
figure  of  the  cuckolded  and  henpecked  husband.  Generally  the 
husband  is  old,  ugly,  stupid,  naive  or  anxious — all  of  them  justifi- 
cation for  his  wife's  extra-marital  pleasures. 

Woman  is  seldom  absent  in  these  tales.  Generally  her  beauty  is 
drawn  in  all  conceivable  colors.  The  breast  especially  appears  to 
be  an  important  fact  of  feminine  pulchritude:  it  must  be  round 
and  full,  but  not  too  big.  For  the  designation  of  more  private  parts 

41 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
rude  words  are  used.  The  more  beautiful  a  woman  the  more  she 
wishes  to  shine;  and  it's  a  short  way  from  her  vanity  to  her  fall. 
Consequently  the  unfaithful  wife  is  the  usual  type  in  the  fabliaux, 
false,  daring,  unhesitating,  mendacious,  always  ready  for  love  and 
always  with  enough  presence  of  mind  to  avoid  being  caught  in 
her  escapades. 

The  virgin  is  usually  naive.  She  knows  nothing  of  love  but  is 
quite  willing  to  be  taught.  This  playing  with  naivete  and  erotic 
innocence  so  attractive  to  the  German  and  Russian  writers,  is  also 
employed  by  the  French,  but  in  a  much  coarser  way. 

What  was  the  reason  for  the  pessimistic  evaluation  of  women? 
It  certainly  was  not  dictated  exclusively  by  the  ascetic  notions  of 
the  middle  ages  about  the  inferiority  of  women  and  marriage.  At 
the  end  of  the  middle  ages  such  harking  back  to  the  Bible  or  church 
fathers  was  rare.  What  gives  these  satires  their  force  is  their  tone 
of  personal  experience.  Thorough  knowledge  of  the  female  is  at  the 
base  of  these  poets'  warnings  against  marriage — for  girls  are  much 
different  after  marriage  than  they  were  before.  A  favorable  judg- 
ment about  women  would  be  very  difficult  if  we  had  to  depend 
only  upon  the  meagre  words  of  praise  in  these  tales.  Nevertheless, 
behind  this  entire  catalogue  of  female  vices  there  slumbers  the 
conviction  that  the  female  mind  is  superior.  The  constantly  re- 
occurring  circumstance  that  the  woman  emerges  as  victorious,  after 
having  taken  advantage  of  the  unworthy  characteristics  of  the 
man — his  credulity,  fear,  clumsiness,  inertia  and  jealousy — is  an 
indirect  recognition  of  her  power,  which  one  must  have  a  knowl- 
edge of,  if  one  is  to  escape  it. 

The  subject  matter  of  these  tales  and  farces  has  frequently  been 
traced.  Le  Grand  D'Aussy  and  Barbazan-Meon  have  followed,  in 
their  editions  of  the  old  French  fabliaux  and  contes,  the  treatment 
of  this  subject  matter  throughout  many  centuries  and  in  many 

42 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 
Romance  languages.  Bedier  has  investigated  their  sources  in  his 
Les  fabliaux;  and  his  general  conclusion  is  that  the  raw  material 
does  spring  from  the  Orient,  but  that  the  French  poet  has  so  devel- 
oped these  themes  as  to  make  his  stories  a  pure  product  of  the 
esprit  gaulois. 

After  the  lapse  of  time,  these  dramatized  farces  were  acted  out. 
They  generally  consisted  of  one  hundred  to  three  hundred  verses. 
Few  of  them  were  ever  written  down  and  still  fewer  printed.  All 
that  have  come  down  to  us,  about  150  pieces,  date  from  the  period 
1 440- 1 450.  After  1450  there  appeared  the  soties,  closely  related  to 
these  farces  but  having  real  fools  or  clowns  in  the  chief  role.  The 
Guild  of  lawyers,  the  Basoches,  was  most  instrumental  in  develop- 
ing the  farces.  Miraulmont,  their  historian,  tells  us  that  at  set  times 
during  the  year  they  would  present  pieces  in  which  they  would 
ridicule  their  own  individual  members  and  in  editions  secrettes 
galantes  des  maisons  particulieres.  On  Shrove  Tuesday  they  would 
hold  a  session  and  satirize  the  law  just  as  the  choir  boys  did  to  the 
church  service  at  Christmas  time.  They  would  deal  with  an  imagi- 
nary legal  process  usually  of  a  very  coarse  nature.  We  don't  know 
much  about  the  repertoire  of  these  societies  but  here  are  some 
examples  dealing  with  litigation:  Whether  a  baby  bom  six  months 
after  the  wedding  can  be  considered  legitimate;  a  defloration  case; 
the  jarce  du  pect  (pet)  where  man  and  wife  accuse  each  other  of 
breaking  wind  in  formal  legal  manner;  or  Les  femmes  qui  de- 
mandent  les  arresages  in  which  the  woman  brings  suit  for  non- 
fulfillment of  marital  duties  but  later  becomes  reconciled  to  her 
husband.  Again  there  is  no  lack  of  farces  dealing  with  unfaithful 
wives.  Thus  we  find  the  story  of  a  one-eyed  man  whose  wife 
covers  that  one  eye  while  her  lover  escapes;  and  then  that  of  the 
fool  whose  wife  is  confined  much  too  early.  The  cunning  tricks 
of  amorous  women  play  a  great  role  in  these  farces,  and  there  is  no 

43 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FKANCE 
dearth  of  obscenity,  but  on  the  whole  there  is  more  of  the  latter 
and  less  of  wit  in  the  Germanic  productions  of  that  time  than 
in  these  French  farces  or  in  the  Italian  bejfe  or  burle  tales.  The 
gallantries  of  the  clerics  were  also  dramatized.  In  general  it  may 
be  said  that  only  a  small  fraction  of  the  farces  can  be  regarded  as 
dramatized  fabliaux  which  were  but  little  used.  However,  the  prim- 
itive joy  in  piquant  and  panurgic  situations  is  not  to  be  mistaken  in 
them. 


CHAPTER  in 

TROUBADOURS  AND  COURTS  OF  LOVE 


ONE  must  not  judge  too  harshly  the  licentiousness  of  the  peo- 
ple, for  joy  in  erotic  matters  has  been  found  among  the  high 
and  the  low  in  the  gray  mists  of  antiquity  as  well  as  in  the  present. 
The  higher  classes  of  that  time  were  no  exception.  The  plays  which 
were  publicly  produced  in  France  during  the  reign  of  Henry  ix 
were  exceedingly  offensive.  Thus,  The  fimny  tale  of  the  physician 
who  cures  all  diseases  and  makes  the  nose  of  the  child  of  a  pregnant 
ivonian;  or  the  boisterous  and  merry  tale  which  describes  the  dis- 
pute over  a  girl  between  a  young  monk  and  an  old  gendarme,  held 
before  the  God  Cupid.  At  the  time  of  Louis  xi  and  Charles  the 
Bold  there  were  representations  comparable  to  those  of  antiquity — 
with  absolutely  naked  girls  participating  in  scenes  like  the  Judg- 
ment of  Paris,  the  History  of  Noah,  etc.  Schnaase  reports  some  of 
the  doings  at  a  party  that  Philip  the  Good  gave  at  Lille  in  1454  on 
the  occasion  of  a  summons  to  a  crusade  issued  by  Pope  Pius  11,  with 
all  the  accompanying  revelry  and  license.  At  one  end  of  the  board 
was  a  naked  girl  covered  only  by  her  long  hair  and  a  thin  veil, 
whose  breasts  poured  forth  Hypocras  a  favorite  drink;  and  on  the 
table  there  was  a  naked  boy  who  scattered  rose  water  in  an  even 
more  naive  fashion. 

The  paintings  and  the  tapestries  of  the  rich  showed  the  same 
scenes.  William  Pepin,  a  preacher  of  the  fifteentli  century  has  this 
to  say:  'The  paintings  and  tapestries  frequently  display  such  dis- 

45 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
gustingly  lewd  matters  that  passions  are  aroused  in  even  the  most 
tranquil  dispositions.  These  are  usually  found  in  the  castles  of  the 
nobility.  Would  to  Heaven  that  none  were  even  seen  in  the  resi- 
dences of  prelates  and  the  clergy.  But  I  cannot  deny  that  I  have 
even  seen  certain  lewd  paintings  in  the  interior  of  a  famous  church 
which  was  decked  out  this  way  in  honor  of  Easter.  I  had  them 
removed  and  carried  them  elsewhere."  The  palace  at  Fontainbleau, 
which  Italian  artists  bmlt  and  decorated  for  Francis  I,  had  a  mass 
of  lewd  paintings  according  to  the  fashion  of  that  time.  Sauval  says 
that  one  could  see  represented  in  them  gods  and  goddesses,  as  well 
as  men  and  women  indulging  in  unnatural  and  horrible  excesses. 
In  1643  the  regent  queen  caused  many  of  these  paintings  to  be 
destroyed;  and  the  loss  amounted  to  more  than  half  a  million  francs. 
The  handwritten  prayer  books  were  decorated  with  miniatures; 
and  collectors  saved  those  which  portrayed  offensive  matters. 

Brantome's  writings  constitute  an  inexhaustible  source  for  evalu- 
ating the  moral  conditions  of  the  higher  society  of  that  time.  He 
writes:  "The  gallery  of  Count  du  Chateau- Vilain,  known  as  Seign- 
eur Adjacet,  was  visited  by  a  horde  of  women  in  the  company  of 
their  admirers.  Their  eyes  were  entranced  by  the  splendid  and 
rare  paintings  that  hung  in  this  gallery.  They  saw  a  very  pretty 
painting  which  portrayed  beautiful  women  at  the  bath  embracing 
one  another  and  doing  one  another  various  other  kinds  of  love 
service;  upon  observing  which,  even  the  coldest  nun  or  hermitess 
could  become  ardent.  One  of  the  women  whom  I  knew  suddenly 
turned  to  her  lover  and  kissed  him  excitedly,  intoxicated  with 
the  amorous  madness  depicted  on  the  wall:  'I  can't  stand  it  any 
longer.  Quick,  into  the  carriage  and  home.  I  am  burning!  Come 
on!  We  will  extinguish  the  fire.' "  How  widespread  this  love  for 
exciting  pictures  was,  can  be  gathered  from  a  sarcastic  remark  made 
by  the  Marquis  d'Argens  apropos  of  Mary  Medici's  destruction 

46 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  MENAISSANCE 
of  a  number  of  these  paintings:  "She  had  better  set  all  of  Fontain- 
bleau  aflame  if  she  wishes  to  have  some  measure  of  success  in  her 
enterprise." 

Brantome  also  relates  the  following:  "I  knew  a  prince  who  pur- 
chased from  a  goldsmith  a  beaker  of  gilded  silver  which  was  a 
masterpiece.  All  around,  and  even  inside,  it  had  delicate  but  clear 
representations  of  some  figures  of  Aretino  and  many  scenes  of  co- 
habiting animals.  During  the  feasts  that  this  prince  gave,  the  beaker 
would  be  passed  around  to  the  women  who  had  to  drink  from  it 
and  who  found  great  amusement  in  it."  And  again:  "At  the  time 
of  Henry  iii  a  nobleman  of  my  acquaintance  presented  his  love 
with  a  picture  book,  representing  32  ladies  of  the  court  disporting 
themselves  in  venery  with  their  admirers.  Among  them  were  cer- 
tain ladies  who  had  two  or  three  or  more  lovers  each,  and  these  32 
exemplified  27  postures  of  Aretino.  The  pictures  were  perfect  like- 
nesses— some  fully  naked,  some  in  the  same  clothes  and  coiffure 
that  they  always  wore;  and  the  same  was  true  of  the  men  rep- 
resented. In  short  this  book  was  splendidly  made.  It  cost  about  nine 
hundred  thalens,  and  the  drawings  were  colored."  Brantome  fur- 
ther relates  that  when  one  of  the  court  ladies  thus  represented  saw 
these  pictures  of  herself  she  didn't  feel  at  all  insulted,  but  rather 
experienced  a  high  degree  of  excitement.  Obscene  amusements 
Were  the  order  of  the  day  with  the  gallant  ladies  of  the  court,  as 
contemporary  writings  demonstrate. 

Something  more  should  be  said  concerning  knighthood.  This 
institution  possessed  indubitable  merits  but  it  also  was  disfigured 
by  many  defects  which  are  not  at  all  in  accordance  with  the 
notions  commonly  held  about  it.  For  generally  it  is  supposed  that 
knighthood  and  the  Minnesingers  were  based  on,  and  culminated 
in,  the  highest  degree  of  reverence  for  women.  Yet  it  was  anything 
but  that.  To  be  sure,  the  poet-lover  of  a  given  lady  regarded  himself 

47 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FRANCE 
as  a  vassal  of  his  love,  and  assumed  the  obligations  of  this  vassal- 
dom — and  its  privileges.  The  lady  love  was  the  feudal  lord  and  he 
served  her  in  the  expectation  that  his  services  would  finally  be 
recompensed  with  the  desired,  ultimate  boon.  In  this  concept  of 
mutuality  there  lay  a  deeply  immoral  moment  which  was  soon  to 
become  the  point  of  attack  for  the  annihilating  criticism  of  knight- 
hood. Since  this  mutuality  was  nearly  always  carried  into  the  realm 
of  the  sexual,  the  homage  to  woman  soon  was  lost.  Why?  Because 
there  had  to  result  a  gradual  demolition  of  all  marital  relationships, 
and  a  revaluation  of  all  moral  conceptions  concerning  marital  fideli- 
ty and  purity  of  family  life. 

This  strong  emphasis  on  sexual  matters  was  aided  by  the  thor- 
ough occupation  with  love  in  all  its  phases  which  characterizes  the 
didactic  poetry  of  that  time.  In  the  Minnesongs  for  example  the 
preponderant  theme  is  the  corporeal  attraction  of  the  lady  who  is 
being  solicited,  and  the  joys  of  physical  love.  No  attention  is  paid 
to  the  spiritual  qualities  of  the  woman,  who  indeed  has  value  only 
as  an  object  for  serving  man's  insatiable  passions.  Consequently, 
pleasure  in  woman  is  confined  to  the  externals;  if  she  possesses 
physical  merits  these  are  glorified  by  her  knight  in  songs  of 
appropriate  praise.  But  what  if  these  corporeal  attractions  decay? 
Then  they  become  disesteemed,  as  are  from  the  start  all  those 
women  who  have  not  been  dowered  with  beauty,  and  are  cast 
upon  the  junk  heap.  The  Minnesongs  can  be  pronounced  to  be 
immoral  in  the  wide  usage  of  the  term,  if  only  for  the  reason  that 
it  is  always  a  married  woman  who  is  the  mistress  of  the  poet's 
heart.  And  since  there  was  no  lack  of  jealous  husbands  at  this  time, 
the  singing  troubadour  was  frequently  compelled  to  use  fictitious 
names  and  allegorical  signs  in  order  to  conceal  the  identity  of  his 
lady.  It  is  this  circumstance  that  to  a  considerable  degree  spoils 
the  naturalness  and  truth  of  the  experiences  in  these  poems.  But 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  MENAISSANCE 
this  reserve  does  not  extend  to  the  physical  charms  of  the  beloved 
which  were  always  placed  in  the  foreground  and  celebrated  with 
utter  candor.  Her  most  intimate  beauties  and  private  favors  were 
poetized  and  revealed  to  an  interested  world,  and  what  woman 
could  remain  deaf  to  music  so  flattering  to  her  ear!  The  forms 
which  the  Minnesingers  assumed  were  frequently  very  grotesque. 
The  knights  wore  the  shirt  of  their  beloved,  saved  their  hair, 
often  their  pubic  hair,  and  were  present  to  lend  a  helping  hand 
when  their  lady-loves  disrobed  and  retired.  Ulrich  von  Lichtenstein 
(1276)  drank  with  great  relish  the  water  of  his  beloved's  bath, 
had  his  lip  operated  for  her  sake,  etc.  Once  the  lady's  favor  was 
won,  the  happy  lover  did  not  have  to  wait  very  long  for  the  satis- 
faction of  his  impatient  desire.  These  relationships  took  place  with- 
out delay  and  quite  openly,  and  were  sanctioned,  indeed  demanded, 
by  society.  To  such  a  pass  did  matters  reach,  that  the  husband 
was  often  compelled  to  be  content  with  a  secondary,  inferior  posi- 
tion in  his  wife's  favor.  Certainly  one  cannot  become  very  enthusi- 
astic about  the  moral  conditions  of  that  time. 

It  is  not  extraordinary,  therefore,  when  the  poet  inflamed  by  the 
charms  of  his  beloved  and  reveling  in  the  memories  of  sweet  hours 
of  intimacy,  gave  such  free  rein  to  his  fancy  that  his  words  were 
somewhat  too  outspoken  for  seminary  girls.  It  is  even  pardonable, 
for  these  songs  are  the  expression  of  a  genuinely  experienced  emo- 
tion. Not  quite  the  same  justification  exists  for  the  composition  of 
erotic  verses  which  are  calculated  to  dazzle  or  to  amuse  by  their 
brilliance,  since  in  this  case  there  is  no  inner  feeling  struggling  for 
expression  that  might,  however  slightly,  excuse  the  license  of 
speech. 

The  low  moral  standard  of  the  Minne-poetry  is  also  attribu- 
table to  the  fact  that  it  was  not  always  knights  who  were  the  com- 
posers of  these  songs,  since  a  certain  measure  of  talent  is  necessary 

49 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
for  their  composition,  which  cannot  be  learnt.  For  the  most  part, 
itinerant  singers,  troubadours  dependent  on  the  kindness  of  the 
knight,  were  the  creators  of  this  poetry.  Troubadours  (from  trou- 
ver)  denotes  discoverer,  poet.  They  flourished  in  the  period  be- 
tween the  middle  of  the  twelfth  and  fourteenth  century.  Their  pro- 
ductions include  violent  satires  against  the  clergy,  didactic  poems, 
but  above  all,  love  songs  and  abstruse  speculations  anent  the  nature 
of  love.  They  sought  to  establish  their  fame  in  the  Tensons,  in  which 
questions  posed  at  various  courts  of  love  were  treated  in  pedantic 
fashion.  These  tensons  consisted  of  dialogues  in  alternating  couplets 
in  which  these  various  speculative  opinions  were  expressed.  In  their 
own  land  the  troubadours  led  an  idle  and  uncertain  life  but  they 
found  a  cordial  welcome  at  the  palaces  of  the  nobles  where  they 
consorted  with  low  villains.  This  afforded  them  a  fine  opportunity 
to  gather  the  anecdotes  and  the  chronique  scandaleuse  of  the  day 
which  they  afterwards  utilized  for  the  benefit  of  their  hearers,  with 
due  corrections.  The  unquestionable  beauty  of  many  of  their  songs 
is  nevertheless  disfigured  by  numerous  failings.  Thus  the  tales  are 
sometimes  extravagant  and  more  often  offensive,  not  merely  in 
expression  but  also  in  content.  Many  obscene  matters  are  even  put 
into  the  mouths  of  women. 

Love  is  represented  as  an  art  by  this  poetry,  and  reduced  to 
rules.  Hence  the  expression.  Saber  d'amor:  to  be  wise  in  matters  of 
love.  It  is  very  likely  that  manuals  were  composed  for  this  art,  for 
which  Ovid  served  as  preceptor. 

It  has  already  been  mentioned  that  there  existed  a  great  predi- 
lection for  investigating  the  nature  and  essence  of  love;  and  this 
brings  us  to  the  courts  of  love  with  their  questions  of  the  Minne- 
singers, frequently  very  free  ones,  too!  The  Roman  de  la  Rose  is  an 
excellent  example  of  this  pedantic  inclination  to  a  scholastic  con- 
sideration of  love.  Even  the  privileges  and  obligations  of  the  lovers 

50 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 
were  codified — in  such  works  as  the  Love  Court  of  Raymond  Vidal; 
and  the  Liber  de  Arte  honeste  amandi  et  de  Reprobatione  inhonesti 
Amoris  of  Andreas  Capellanus.  There  were  debates  on  such  ques- 
tions as  these:  Which  lover  shows  more  affection — he  who  is  so 
jealous  as  to  be  disturbed  on  the  slightest  provocation,  or  he  who  is 
so  prepossessed  in  favor  of  his  love  as  not  to  be  jealous  even  when 
substantial  proofs  are  at  hand?  Which  lover  owes  more  to  his  love — 
he  who  has  won  her  heart  after  a  long  siege  or  he  who  has  not  to  so- 
licit so  long?  Which  lover  demonstrates  his  love  more — he  who  at 
the  behest  of  his  love  absents  himself  from  a  tournament  that  he  de- 
sires to  witness,  or  he  who,  again  at  the  request  of  his  love,  accom- 
panies her  to  a  tournament  he  would  rather  have  missed. 

The  existence  of  these  courts  of  love  is  certified  by  numerous 
poems  of  the  troubadours.  What  we  are  not  certain  however  is 
whether  they  were  regarded  as  pastimes,  or  whether  the  decisions 
of  these  courts  really  had  any  effect  upon  the  courtly  society.  The 
first  of  these  suppositions  seems  the  more  likely.  Probably  these 
questions  about  love  were  brought  up  at  social  gatherings  for  the 
delectation  of  the  guests.  Aretino  would  also  seem  to  be  of  this  mind. 
Schultz  is  doubtless  right  when  he  says:  "It  is  highly  probable  that 
both  ladies  and  gallants  who  had  been  following  the  suit  of  a  cer- 
tain young  man  with  interest,  would  discuss  the  matter  to  deter- 
mine whether  the  lover  had  already  attained  the  final  favor  or 
whether  he  was  to  suffer  much  longer."  But  this  sort  of  amusement 
and  the  court  of  love  which  gives  decisions  according  to  the  writ- 
ings of  Andreas  are  quite  different  things. 

The  distortions  of  the  knightly  service  of  women,  and  the  moral 
excesses  of  the  time  afforded  ample  material  for  didactic  poetry  and 
satire.  There  were  those  preachers  who  babbled  about  the  good  old 
times  and  who  wished  to  lead  their  misguided  and  neglected  con- 
temporaries back  to  morality  and  honor.  These  attempts  were  made 

51 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FMANCE 
in  a  very  formal  manner  by  Maitre  Ermenen,  for  instance,  who 
composed  Breviari  d'Amor  ( 1 288),  a  iiandbook  of  love  which  treats 
of  its  subject  with  all  the  available  knowledge  of  that  time,  starting 
from  divine  love  and  ending  in  earthly  love.  Raymond  Vidal  com- 
posed a  volume  in  which  he  imparted  wise  doctrines  to  lovers. 
Peire  Giullem  composed  a  novel  in  which  love,  and  her  attendants, 
grace,  shame,  and  frivolity,  appeared  as  allegorical  characters. 

All  these  attempts  and  numerous  others  pale  by  comparison  with 
the  Roman  de  la  Rose  of  Guillaume  of  Louis  (ca.  1260)  w^hich 
Jehan  de  Meung  completed  about  1300.  In  certain  respects  he 
stands  on  the  threshold  between  two  periods.  The  earlier  knightly 
gallantry  to  women  had  been  succeeded  by  a  satirical  and  superior 
sort,  and  the  art  of  love  was  taught  out  of  the  treasure  trove  of  rich 
experience.  The  pruriency  and  voluptuousness  of  the  representa- 
tions were  in  accordance  with  the  taste  of  the  time.  The  satirical 
treatment  of  the  errors  of  society,  combined  with  an  amazing  eru- 
dition, lent  a  prestige  to  this  work  which  it  maintained  throughout 
the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries,  even  though  there  rose  up 
among  the  attacked  many  who  defended  the  old  order. 

Lyric  poetry  of  the  troubadours  had  but  a  shadowy  existence  in 
the  fifteenth  century.  Its  rare  and  precious  forms,  its  affectation, 
its  concealed  allusions  did  not  appeal  to  the  new  taste,  which  sought 
genuine,  homely  lyricism.  Among  those  who  satisfied  the  new  de- 
mands were  Froissart,  Besselin  and  especially  Villon,  who  was  bom 
near  Paris,  in  143 1.  He  came  to  Paris  to  attend  the  university  but 
the  loose  student  life  attracted  him  much  more  than  did  science, 
and  he  was  drawn  deeper  and  deeper  into  the  whirlpool  of  pleasure. 
His  chief  occupation  was  aimer.  When  one  of  his  sweethearts  dis- 
missed him  he  revenged  himself  by  composing  a  satirical  poem, 
for  which  he  was  publicly  flogged.  Thereupon  he  left  Paris  but  not 
before  he  had  composed  (in  1456)  his  will — the  Small  Testament. 

52 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 
His  miserable  circumstances  compelled  him  to  perpetrate  two  felo- 
nies for  which  he  was  twice  sentenced  to  the  gallows  and  twice 
pardoned.  The  date  of  his  death  is  unknown  but  it  falls  between 
1480  and  1490.  His  chief  work  is  the  Grand  Testament  which  he 
composed  in  the  shadow  of  imminent  death  by  hanging.  It  was  a 
collection  of  ballads  and  poems  in  which  he  bequeathed  to  his  rela- 
tives and  cronies  that  which  did  not  belong  to  him  and  which  the 
heirs  would  have  to  steal  to  make  their  own.  To  his  enemies  he 
bequeathed  a  jest  or  a  term  of  abuse.  His  roguish  songs  were  collect- 
ed by  a  friend  under  the  title  Repues  franches.  All  his  works  make  a 
peculiar  impression  upon  us  with  their  rapid  alternation  of  the 
coarsely  erotic,  and  the  noblest  and  purest  of  sentiment.  With 
great  candor  he  reveals  to  us  his  evil  characteristics,  and  even  his 
crimes.  All  his  works  are  characterized  by  melancholy,  humor,  and 
a  naive  devotion  to  his  impressions  of  reality;  all  his  works  breathe 
a  deep  truthfulness.  His  expression  is  frequently  foul  and  obscene, 
and  the  wordplays  which  he  skillfully  scatters  throughout  his  ver- 
ses have  nearly  always  an  obscene  allusion.  Despite  all  his  short- 
comings, Villon  remains  the  best  folk  poet  before  Marot,  and 
stands  in  conscious  opposition  to  the  lascivious,  sentimental,  idyllic 
poetry  which  was  the  accepted  thing  in  France  since  the  Roman  de 
la  Rose. 

In  the  realm  of  the  humorous  story  the  two  outstanding  produc- 
tions are  the  Mensa  Philosophica  and  the  Cent  Novelles  Nouvelles. 
The  first  was  printed  in  1475  and  is  attributed  to  Michael  Scot.  The 
author's  purpose  is,  in  his  own  words,  to  teach  his  readers  what  and 
how  to  speak  at  the  table.  The  fourth  part  contains  a  collection  of 
"honorable,  merry"  stories  that  are  adapted  for  table  amusement, 
and  include  a  great  number  of  indecent  stories.  Bebel  has  borrowed 
a  number  of  his  Facetiae  from  it,  Boccaccio's  Decameron  (vii,  5  and 
IX,  2)  is  beholden  to  it,  and  Gargantua's  table  amusement  looks 

53 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FKANCE 
back  to  it  as  prototype.  Michael  Scot,  who  died  in  1291,  can  un- 
hesitatingly be  regarded  as  the  author  of  the  first  three  treatises. 
The  fourth  treatise,  however,  which  includes  the  erotical  tales  is 
very  likely  the  production  of  a  Dominican  monk.  The  Mensa  served 
as  model  for  the  later  narrators  of  humorous  tales. 

The  Cent  Novelles  Nouvelles,  so  called  to  distinguish  them  from 
the  Cent  Nouvelles  antiche,  were  produced  about  1460  but  did  not 
get  into  print  before  i486;  they  may  be  regarded  as  the  first  French 
book  of  tales  which  was  consciously  produced  for  this  purpose. 
Neither  the  first  printing  of  Verard  nor  any  of  the  subsequent  ones 
give  the  name  of  the  author;  all  sorts  of  guesses  have  been  made, 
even  the  name  of  Louis  xi  having  been  suggested.  At  any  rate  it 
was  assumed  as  certain  that  they  sprang  from  the  King's  table.  The 
Marquis  d'Argens  mentions  that  the  favorite  table  talk  in  that  mon- 
arch's refectory  consisted  of  obscene  love  adventures,  and  these 
stories  doubtless  gave  the  impetus  to  this  bock.  It  remained  for 
Wright  in  his  edition  of  the  work  (1858)  and  the  Grisebach,  to  es- 
tablish that  Anthoine  de  la  Sale  was  the  author.  The  latter  was  bom 
at  Provence  in  1 388,  jomneyed  through  Italy,  Brabant  and  Flanders 
and  in  141 5  took  part  in  a  military  expedition  to  Portugal.  After 
his  return  he  became  a  judge  in  Aries,  and  tutor  to  the  Dauphin 
and  to  the  sons  of  Count  Saint-Pol.  Little  is  known  of  his  last  years, 
except  that  he  was  past  seventy  when  he  died. 

The  form  of  the  stories  resembles  Boccaccio's.  A  group  of  young 
noblemen,  just  returned  from  the  hunt  are  gathered  round  the 
fireplace,  and  as  they  feast  they  regale  each  other  with  coarse, 
humorous  stories.  The  stories  are  told  broadly,  are  rooted  in  a  rude, 
rough  eroticism,  and  are  scarcely  fit  for  female  ears.  Fifteen  of  them 
are  borrowed  from  Poggio,  and  Boccaccio  too  contributes  some 
material;  furthermore,  the  author  took  much  from  the  fabliaux  of 
the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries.  But  La  Sale  has  revised  all 

54 


BOOK  I:  MEDIEVAL  AND  RENAISSANCE 
his  sources  so  that  his  work  can  really  serve  as  an  accurate  mirror 
of  the  morals  of  his  days.  Lusty  cavaliers,  faithless  and  frivolous 
wives,  jealous  husbands,  cunning  monks  and  lascivious  nuns  pass 
before  our  eyes  in  colorful  alternation.  All  their  thoughts  are  con- 
cerned with  the  satisfaction  of  sexual  desire.  Yet  even  the  most 
delicate  matters  are  represented  with  smooth  grace,  which  seems 
to  be  instinctive  in  the  French  people. 

La  Sale  is  also  the  author  of  another  very  well  known  work  which 
appeared  anonymously,  Les  quinze  joyes  de  manage.  The  edition 
of  this  work  issued  with  many  lacunae,  by  Jehan  Treperel  in  Paris 
between  1495  and  1502,  contains  a  foreword  which  gives  the  name 
of  the  author  in  a  charade.  This  riddle  was  not  deciphered  until 
1830  when  Dr.  Andre  Pother,  municipal  librarian  of  Rouen,  wrote 
the  solution  to  a  certain  bookseller  Techener.  This  work  is  not 
merely  a  collection  of  obscenities  but  a  striking  and  mordant  satire 
on  marriage,  and  though  done  in  an  admirable  style,  is  quite  pessi- 
mistic and  misogynous. 


BOOK  II 

THE  SIXTEENTH  AND  SEVENTEENTH 

CENTURIES 


e^c^?^e^@^£W«&^s^(W^E|U  e^ 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY 


SENTIMENTAL  lovc  reached  its  peak  in  the  flood  of  Amadis  stories. 
I  During  his  imprisonment  in  Madrid  (1525)  Francis  i  had  read 
some  of  the  Spanish  Amadis  stories  by  Garcia  Ordonez  de  Mont- 
alvo.  These  stories  of  adventures  and  love  appealed  to  him  so  much 
that  he  requisitioned  d'Herberay  des  Essarts  to  translate  them  into 
French.  The  task  was  completed  in  1 540  and  despite  its  long  winded 
title  aroused  the  intensest  interest  and  gave  rise  to  numerous  imita- 
tions which  were  failures.  In  all  of  them  the  erotic  element  was 
dominant. 

It  is  in  the  heroic  romances  of  gallantry,  in  fictions  like  Amadis 
and  in  the  pastorals,  that  songs  of  praise  are  sung  to  sexual  love, 
which  constituted  the  chief  desideratum  of  life.  It  is  almost  a 
tradition  that  all  heroes  of  the  Amadis  romances  must  have  been 
the  fruit  of  premarital  unions;  and  the  knights  who  extol  the  notions 
of  free  sexual  relations  always  find  ladies  of  like  mind.  In  the 
heroic  romances  of  gallantry  there  is  not  quite  such  a  degree  of 
freedom;  indeed  it  was  the  part  of  courtiy  perfection  to  apply  a 
curb  to  erotic  passion  and  to  paraphrase  matters  almost  sanctimoni- 
ously instead  of  employing  the  blunt  word.  But  this  does  not  imply 
that  a  nobler  conception  of  love  had  come  to  be  entertained.  From 
contemporary  descriptions  of  the  moral  life  of  the  period,  we  know 
that  at  the  court  of  Louis  xiv  chastity  was  by  no  means  regarded 
as  an  ideal  worth  striving  for,  and  that  sexual  pleasures  were  more 

59 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FRANCE 
highly  valued  than  anything  else;  only,  it  was  held  that  to  display 
one's  erotic  desires  to  the  whole  world  was  not  compatible  with  the 
dignity  and  honor  required  of  a  courtier.  Madame  Scudery  is  a 
prototype  of  the  poets  who  composed  these  romances.  Although 
she  lost  much  of  her  popularity  after  Boileau's  biting  satire,  the 
public  continued  to  favor  these  romances;  and  in  Germany  they 
were  even  more  popular  than  in  France. 

However,  this  fare  of  false  sentimentality  which  our  modem 
appetites  can  no  longer  enjoy,  did  not  hold  the  sole  place  in  the 
esteem  of  that  period.  Other  genres,  more  substantial,  were  also 
favored;  and  the  grotesque,  the  piquant,  the  ribald  found  as  many 
lovers  as  the  Amadis  romances,  or  even  more.  The  chief  rep- 
resentatives of  each  variety  will  now  be  mentioned. 

The  first  place  is  without  a  doubt  occupied  by  Master  Frangois 
Rabelais  (1483-1553)  with  his  Gargantua  and  Pantagruel,  which 
is  more  than  a  grotesque-humorous  fiction.  There  is  unrolled  be- 
fore our  eyes  a  satirical  picture  of  the  times,  which  has  never  found 
its  equal.  There  is  no  need  for  us  to  give  a  more  detailed  analysis 
of  the  work  since  this  will  be  found  in  any  history  of  literature. 
This  world  famous  satire  owes  its  origin  to  the  suggestion  of  his 
publishers,  who  requested  Rabelais  to  write  a  popular  work  to 
indemnify  them  for  the  poor  sale  of  that  author's  medical  works. 
So  Rabelais  composed  his  Pantagruel  roy  des  Dipsodes,  restitue  a  son 
naturel  avec  ses  faicetz  et  ses  promesses  esponentables;  composez  par 
feu  M.  Alcofribas  abstracteur  de  quintessence  to  which  he  soon 
added  the  revised  satire  La  vie  ires  horrifique  de  Gargantua,  pere 
Pantagruel  fadis  compose e  par  M.  Alcofribas,  abstracteur  de  quin- 
tessence. In  the  first  book  Rabelais  lets  the  giant  Pantagruel  journey 
through  all  provinces  of  folly.  Everywhere  he  punishes  fools  and 
protects  the  righteous.  His  companion  is  the  infinitely  amusing 
Panurge,  who  addresses  him  in  all  possible  languages  following  the 

60 


BOOK  II:  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY 
evil  custom  of  the  scholars  of  his  time;  and  they  exchange  experi- 
ences. Rabelais  lashes  the  crimes  of  the  church  and  the  monks 
and  their  lascivious  life  with  unsurpassed,  vigorous  humor.  In  line 
with  the  comic  content,  the  narrative  is  adorned  with  speeches 
and  words  in  foreign  languages,  and  with  linguistic  frills  of  all 
sorts  which  despite  their  nonsense,  give  a  most  just  characterization 
of  the  persons  represented. 

Naturally  this  book  was  a  thorn  in  the  side  of  those  whom  it 
attacked,  and  it  would  have  fared  ill  with  the  author  had  not  the 
royal  hand  protected  him.  Francis  i  in  particular  took  great  delight 
in  the  unrestrained  merriment  of  the  delightful  work.  However, 
Rabelais  never  aimed  at  lewdness  in  these  books.  Even  as  prudish 
a  historian  of  literature  as  E.  Engel  admits  that  while  certain  chap- 
ters in  Gargantua  are  so  immeasurably  indecent  that  it  is  impossible 
to  give  even  a  list  of  its  headings,  it  must  nevertheless  be  admitted 
that  Rabelais  is  never  lewd,  no  matter  how  far  he  strays  beyond 
the  bounds  of  what  is  permissible  to  the  writer  or  artist,  or  how 
much  he  indulges  in  offensive  and  monstrous  nastiness.  He  never 
aims  to  excite  the  reader  sensually,  though  he  always  and  quite 
without  scruple,  uses  the  shocking  word  to  designate  the  shocking 
deed.  In  other  words,  although  he  revels  in  the  vocabulary  of 
coarseness  so  that  many  chapters  are  complete  lexica  of  porno- 
graphy, which  have  no  equal  even  in  the  wide  realms  of  French 
literature,  he  never  smirks,  and  only  uses  such  words  to  portray 
faithfully  coarse  men  and  raw  situations. 

In  the  rhymed  foreword  to  Gargantua,  Rabelais  expresses  himself 
unequivocally  about  the  purpose  of  his  work: 

Mieulx  est  de  ris  que  de  larmes  escrire 
pource  que  rire  est  le  propre  de  Vhomme. 

The  hostility  of  the  theologues  is  quite  understandable  for  even 
Protestant  literature  cannot  show  more  witty  and  malicious  mock- 

61 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 
ery  than  Rabelais  offers  in  the  chapters  49  to  54  of  the  third  book, 
and  chapters  3  to  8  of  the  fourth  book  of  Pantagruel.  His  work 
is  a  splendid  antidote  to  the  literature  of  libidinousness  and  pruri- 
ency— like  a  mudbath.  His  piercing  scorn  is  also  directed  against 
the  female  sex,  particularly  against  the  immorality  of  his  feminine 
contemporaries.  What  a  grotesque  impression  is  created  by  his  ac- 
count of  the  unusual  condition  of  the  labor ator  natur<£  (clitoris) 
which  in  some  women  is  so  long,  large,  thick,  fat  and  vigorous, 
that  they  can  twine  it  around  their  bodies  five  or  six  times  as  a 
girdle,  or  actually  use  it  as  a  lance  in  certain  circumstances! 

How  insatiable  the  women  of  his  time  were  may  be  gathered 
from  the  following  anecdote  from  Rabelais:  One  fine  morning 
Panurge  met  a  fellow  who  was  carrying  two  baby  girls  of  about 
two  or  three  years  of  age  in  a  double  knapsack,  slung  across  his 
shoulders — one  in  front  and  the  other  on  his  back.  Panurge  who 
had  but  little  respect  for  the  female  species  asked  the  man  immedi- 
ately whether  the  children  were  virgins.  To  which  the  man  replied 
that  he  had  been  carrying  them  about  for  two  years;  that  the  one 
in  front  whom  he  carried  on  his  chest — he  supposed  that  she  was 
still  a  virgin;  but  as  for  the  one  whom  he  carried  on  his  back,  he 
could  not  undertake  to  speak  with  certainty. 

Quite  in  the  spirit  of  Rabelais,  but  not  at  all  a  part  of  literature, 
are  the  Erreurs  popolaires  et  propos  vulgaires  touchant  la  ?nedicine 
et  la  regime  of  Laurent  Joubert  (1578).  The  very  headings  betray 
the  roguish  wantonness  of  the  author:  why  one  should  not  meet 
women  before  going  to  bed;  the  abuse  of  women  who  bathe  in  order 
to  become  gravid;  how  it  is  possible  that  a  woman  should  bear  nine 
children  at  once;  whether  it  is  good  for  a  woman  to  sit  on  a  hot 
kettle  or  place  the  night  cap  of  her  husband  on  her  belly  to  assure 
an  easy  parturition;  are  there  sure  signs  of  a  girl's  virginity;  etc. 

62 


BOOK  II:  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTUMY 
Obviously  the  roguish  author  of  this  coarse  humor  has  caught  the 
breath  of  Rabelais'  spirit. 

Guillaume  Bouchet,  who  Hved  between  15 13  and  1593  and  was 
a  bookseller  at  Poitiers,  has  also  long  been  famed  as  an  imitator  of 
Rabelais.  He  wrote  the  Series,  fifty  gallant  "jokes"  which  have  the 
effect  of  well-told  anecdotes  in  their  pregnant  setting.  One  reads 
here  of  the  lady  who  has  to  sit  on  the  pot  de  chambre  and  gets 
pinched  in  her  private  parts  by  a  crayfish;  of  the  dreamer  who 
dreams  of  gold  but  who  receives  turds;  of  the  cuckolded  husband 
who  must  get  into  the  privy  at  once  but  who  cannot  open  the 
door  because  his  wife  and  her  lover  are  having  a  very  important 
conference  there.  Whereas  the  stories  of  the  Heptameron  and  the 
Nouvelles  Recreations  still  contain  much  that  is  superfluous,  the 
tendency  toward  the  pure  form  of  the  anecdote  appears  ever  more 
clearly  in  the  last  decades  of  the  1 6th  century,  to  assume  final  form 
in  the  work  of  Bouchet  and  Beroalde  de  Verville.  In  these  anec- 
dotes of  the  Series,  and  of  the  Moyen  de  parvenir  soon  to  be  dis- 
cussed, with  their  condensation  and  pointedness,  the  material  of  the 
old  French  fabliaux  assumed  the  form  of  the  modern  French  conte. 
A  few  illustrations  will  prove  this. 

\  A  pregnant  woman  feels  that  her  hour  is  due.  The  midwife 
supports  her  and  desires  to  put  her  upon  the  bed.  Whereupon 
she  cries:  "No,  not  on  the  bed;  that's  where  I  met  my  misfor- 
tune." 

^  A  group  was  conversing  about  the  slightness  of  hand  found 
among  gypsies,  and  one  man  related  how  they  took  a  stone,  en- 
closed it  in  their  fist  in  the  sight  of  all,  and  were  so  skilled  in 
making  it  disappear  that  no  one  could  tell  whether  it  was  still 
there  or  not.  His  wife  who  had  not  been  listening  very  atten- 
tively remarked,  quite  naively:  "Tush,  that  can't  be  so  difficult. 
I  always  know  whether  it  is  inside  or  not." 

63 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
f  A  newly  married  couple  had  just  gone  to  bed  and  the  hus- 
band was  praising  his  wife  for  her  chastity  during  their  be- 
trothal— that  is,  for  not  having  granted  him  that  which  he  had 
been  so  fervently  desiring.  Thereupon  she  said  to  him,  "Yes, 
dear,  I  took  great  care  not  to  let  myself  go  in  spite  of  the  fact 
that  I  desired  you,  because  I  had  already  been  deceived  too 
many  times  in  such  matters." 

Des  Periers  the  valet,  secretary  and  page  of  Margaret  of  Valois, 
also  wrote  witty  anecdotes.  Gay  gives  a  full  report  about  his  life 
and  works.  Bonaventure  des  Periers  was  at  once  philosopher  and 
author.  He  was  bom  at  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century  and  stood 
in  relationship  to  Clement  Marot  and  Rabelais.  By  Catholics  he  was 
suspected  of  Protestantism,  and  by  the  latter  of  licentiousness.  In 
1537  he  published  Cymbalum  mundi,  a  collection  of  philosophical 
dialogues.  Immediately,  the  whole  edition,  with  the  exception  of 
two  copies,  was  placed  under  embargo  and  destroyed.  Of  these 
two,  one  is  in  the  Bibhotheque  Nationale,  the  other  in  the  municipal 
library  of  Versailles.  The  protection  of  Margaret  of  Valois  saved 
him  from  persecution  and  the  following  year  another  edition  was 
issued  by  a  different  publisher,  Bonn  of  Lyons.  For  a  short  while  he 
belonged  to  the  intimate  circle  gathered  around  Margaret  which 
was  devoted  to  the  cultivation  of  bel-esprit.  In  1543  he  committed 
suicide  in  a  fit  of  insanity.  After  his  death  his  works  were  issued  by 
his  friends,  and  among  them  were  Les  Nouvelles.  The  following  are 
some  of  the  erotic  stories  of  des  Periers  that  may  be  considered 
characteristic  of  his  time: 

^  Concerning  the  three  unmarried  sisters  who  give  witty  an- 
swers to  their  husbands  on  the  night  of  their  marriages. 

f  Concerning  the  procurator  who  has  a  girl  from  the  country 
come  to  minister  to  his  needs,  and  his  secretary  who  enjoyed 
her  too. 

64 


BOOK  II:  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTURY 

f  Concerning  the  Scotchman  and  his  wife  who  displayed  quite 
an  unaccountable  skill  during  the  first  skirmish. 

f  Concerning  the  poor  bumpkin  who  found  his  lost  ass  thanks 
to  an  enema  that  his  physician  had  given  him. 

f  Concerning  a  superstitious  physician  who  would  play  with 
his  wife  only  when  it  rained;  and  of  the  great  good  fortune  that 
befell  her  upon  his  death. 

^  Concerning  a  priest  who  let  himself  be  castrated  at  the  insti- 
gation of  his  housekeeper. 

^  Concerning  the  trick  that  a  young  woman  of  Orleans  em- 
ployed in  order  to  ensnare  a  young  student  to  whom  she  had 
taken  a  fancy. 

^  Concerning  the  lawsuit  that  a  mother-in-law  brought  against 
her  son-in-law  because  he  had  not  deflowered  her  daughter  on 
the  first  night. 

f  Concerning  two  youths  of  Sienna  who  were  in  love  with  two 
Spanish  women,  of  whom  one  in  order  to  help  the  other  attain 
the  pleasures  of  love,  went  through  great  dangers,  which  subse- 
quently brought  him  much  joy  and  satisfaction. 

In  much  the  same  way  Nicolas  of  Troyes,  the  saddle  master,  wrote 
down  the  humorous  stories  that  came  to  his  ears.  He  lived  about 
1 530  at  the  time  of  Francis  i  and  composed  his  stories  just  before  the 
Heptameron.  His  stories  depend  on  Boccaccio,  La  Sale,  Cent  nov- 
elles  nouvelles,  Gesta  Romanorum,  old  sermons  and  books  of  leg- 
ends, the  dialogues  of  the  holy  Gregory,  Jacob  de  Vitry  and  others. 
In  order  to  characterize  the  stories  a  bit,  we  will  summarize  the  con- 
tents of  some  of  them: 

^  A  young  woman  engaged  to  be  married  has  her  duties 
knocked  into  her  by  the  barn  thresher  in  order  that  she  may 
be  a  ready  worker  by  the  time  she  is  married. 

65 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 

^  A  merchant  purchases  from  a  priest  the  sacrifice  of  all  the 
women  whom  the  latter  has  had.  But  the  man's  own  wife  who 
has  been  one  of  the  company,  subsequently  deceives  him  again. 

f  A  priest  is  enamoured  of  a  woman  painter  and  what  happens 
to  him  after  he  represents,  entirely  naked,  the  crucified  one  up- 
on a  cross. 

^  A  youthful  couple  were  married.  Once  the  husband  leaves 
for  a  short  trip  to  Paris  and  when  he  returns  his  wife  asks  what 
he  has  done  with  the  Httle  ploughman  that  he  used  to  have  be- 
fore. 

^  A  certain  baker  is  in  love  with  a  maid  and  embraces  her 
whenever  he  comes  for  the  dough.  Her  mistress  lies  in  wait  for 
him  one  day,  gives  him  his  dough  and  gets  in  return  what  was 
coming  to  the  maid. 

f  A  young  wife  is  persuaded  that  she  has  caused  her  husband 
to  be  pregnant.  Whereupon  his  wife  consents  to  have  him 
transfer  his  pregnancy  to  the  maid  whom  he  promptly  impreg- 
nates. 

^  A  certain  girl  is  unwilling  to  marry  any  man  who  has  the 
generative  organs  of  the  male. 

^  A  youth  bound  for  Lyons  lies  with  an  abbess  while  en  route. 
A  hermit  presents  him  with  a  ring  that  adds  half  a  foot  to  the 
stature  of  his  member.  A  certain  bishop  finds  the  said  ring  and 
encounters  many  strange  adventures. 

These  tales  are  valuable  to  us  for  the  historical  materials  they 
contain.  Aside  from  this,  however,  the  circumstantial  narratives 
of  the  upright  artisan  are  neither  of  literary  nor  cultural  value. 

Infinitely  more  alive  is  the  master  of  the  droll  tale,  Francois 
Beroalde  de  Verville  (i 558-1 612),  whom  we  now  consider.  He 
was  born  and  raised  as  a  Protestant  but  after  his  father's  death  he 
went  over  to  the  Catholic  church,  and  at  thirty-five  became  canon 


BOOK  II:  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTUEY 
of  Saint-Gatien  de  Tours,  in  recognition  of  his  extraordinary  eru- 
dition and  superb  gifts.  He  was  the  author  of  a  series  of  novels 
including  La  Pucelle  d'Orleans  but  none  of  these  would  have  res- 
cued his  name  from  oblivion  had  he  not  hit  upon  the  happy  notion 
of  collecting  piquant  anecdotes.  The  volume  titled  Moyen  de  Par- 
venir  appeared  about  1610  with  no  author's  or  publisher's  name  and 
no  place  of  publication.  Subsequent  editions  bore  other  quaint  titles, 
as  Le  Coupgu  de  la  Melancholie  and  Venus  en  belle  hu7neur,  etc. 

We  have  here  a  collection  of  extremely  free  tales  related  round 
the  festive  board.  The  modern  reader  needs  much  patience  to  read 
Beroalde  who  makes  many  demands  upon  that  particular  virtue 
because  he  is  very  prolix  and  repetitious.  The  boon  companions 
spin  their  yarns  to  great  lengths  indeed.  Most  of  the  anecdotes 
have  to  do  with  the  genital  and  anal  regions;  and  it  would  appear 
as  though  this  strong,  and  not  at  all  prudish  nation,  took  particular 
joy  in  swimming  in  cesspools.  Beroalde  finds  special  pleasure  in  put- 
ting the  juiciest  jests  and  anecdotes  into  the  mouths  of  famous  writ- 
ers like  Sappho,  Rabelais,  Calvin  and  many  other  scholars  whom  he 
vulgarizes  before  us.  His  influence  was  very  considerable  and  for  a 
long  time  his  work  was  attributed  to  Rabelais.  Even  today  we  find 
some  of  his  witty  tales  included  in  contemporary  works. 

A  few  examples  will  illustrate  how  coarse  these  anecdotes  are. 
Several  characters  are  conversing: 

f  The  Other:  I  will  tell  you  all  about  it.  Gaffer  Genebrard 
had  married  a  young,  pretty,  and  dainty  wife,  and  in  due  course 
they  went  to  bed.  He  kissed  her  and  fondled  her  to  his  heart's 
content  (he  was  soon  content)  and  then  tapped  her  gently, 
saying:  "Roach,  sweetheart,  roach."  Next  Friday  the  maid  was 
charged  to  go  to  the  fishmarket,  and  asked  her  mistress  what 
she  should  buy.  "Whatever  you  please,"  said  the  lady.  "Shall 
n)ring  some  roach?"  (The  name  of  a  common  fish.)  "The  devil 
take  you!  I  never  hear  anything  but  roach  in  this  house!" 

67 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 

f  Gaupil:  Roach  is  a  good  name,  considering  the  care  that  na- 
ture hath  to  ward  off  eficj'oachmejits,  otherwise  women  would 
be  perpetually  hoarse.  But  it  is  a  wondrous  thing  how  this  mys- 
tery of  nature  can  come  together  again  after  it  has  been  parted. 

f  Sappho:  It  came  about  when  Jupiter  severed  the  androgyne. 
He  bade  Mercury  sew  up  the  bellies  of  the  two  halves;  and  thus 
the  belly  is  tender  to  the  touch  to  this  day.  The  lace  he  used  to 
sew  up  the  man  was  too  long,  so  the  end  hung  down  in  front; 
and  when  he  came  to  the  woman  he  took  too  short  a  lace,  and 
there  was  not  enough  to  finish  her;  hence  for  want  of  a  stitch  a 
gash  remained  open.  Do  you  understand  that?  Then  lay  it  up  in 
the  cedar  chest  by  the  hearth.  Know  you,  learned  sirs,  what  are 
the  seven  wonders  of  the  world?  You  say  not  a  word.  It  is  evi- 
dent that  I  can  teach  you  some  rare  doctrines,  so  make  ready  to 
listen.  Don't  you  know  that  though  the  hen  and  the  cow  live  in 
the  same  field  neither  eats  buttered  eggs!  I  will  tell  you  greater 
secrets  which  contain  the  marrow  of  all  the  sciences.  The  seven 
miracles  are  as  follows:  i.  A  black  hen,  which  lays  a  white  egg. 
2.  Claret,  which  goes  in  red  and  comes  out  white.  3.  The  spigot 
that  has  no  ears,  and  yet  hears  well  enough  when  there  is  talk  of 
grappling.  4.  The  vessel  which  has  its  mouth  at  the  bottom,  and 
yet  lets  nothing  out.  5.  The  bow  which  bends  of  itself  without 
a  winch.  6.  The  rose  which  sucks  the  marrow  of  men's  bones, 
and  yet  does  not  break  them.  7.  The  anus  which  opens  and  shuts 
like  a  purse,  without  any  strings.  Ah,  ha!  What  do  you  say  to 
that? 

Here  is  another  example  from  Beroalde,  as  witty  and  as  coarse 
as  the  preceding  excerpt  and  no  less  characteristic  of  the  age: 

^  It  fell  out  once  on  a  time  that  as  Brother  Laillee  was  journey- 
ing to  Angers,  he  spent  a  night  in  the  house  of  a  good  woman 
who  had  long  known  him;  if  I  am  not  mistaken  she  was  called 
La  Coibaude.  When  he  was  in  bed  they  put  a  chamber-pot  on 
the  stool  beside  him,  and  on  the  same  stool  was  a  round  and  hol- 
low rat-trap;  not  one  of  the  traps  with  a  door,  but  with  a  spring 


BOOK  II:  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTUHY 

that  gripped  the  rat  by  the  middle  of  the  body.  This  trap  was  at 
least  half  a  foot  in  diameter,  it  was  ready  set,  and  the  spring  was 
stiff  and  strong.  In  the  night  Brother  Jean  woke  up  to  mictu- 
rate, and  took  hold  of  the  trap  by  the  rim,  thinking  it  had  been 
the  pot.  He  then  presented  John  Chouart  to  the  instrument, 
and  as  it  stretched  down  as  far  as  the  catch,  the  spring  went  off, 
and  grabbed  hold  of  the  Greyfriar.  He  bawled  out  loudly  e- 
nough  to  awake  the  Seven  Sleepers,  and  they  brought  a  candle, 
and  set  him  free. 

f  The  maid  laughed  at  him  with  all  her  heart,  for  she  was  now 
avenged  of  an  ill  turn  he  had  done  her  when  he  was  sleeping 
there  before.  It  was  in  summertime,  and  the  house  being  full,  he 
who  was  a  familiar  friend  slept  in  the  lower  room,  where  the 
good  wife  and  her  maid  lay  in  another  bed.  The  rascal  got  up  to 
take  the  air,  and  the  night  being  dark,  he  called  out  to  the  maid: 
"Marchioness,  I  have  lost  my  way;  prithee,  come  and  set  me 
right."  The  poor  wench  got  up  and  went  to  him,  and  in  the 
meantime  the  friar  had  tucked  up  his  shirt  and  was  holding  his 
arms  high  above  his  head.  "Prithee,  take  me  by  the  hand,"  said 
he.  "Alack!"  quoth  she,  "your  fingers  are  mighty  thick;  no,  it's 
your  arm.  Why,  what's  this?  Go  away,  I  will  have  nothing  to 
do  with  you."  With  that  she  gave  him  a  push  and  left  him  in 
the  dark. 

In  marked  contrast  to  Beroalde's  naturalness  and  primitiveness 
is  the  courtliness  that  emanates  from  every  line  of  the  Heptameron, 
despite  its  attention  to  sexual  matters.  Marguerite  de  Valois,  born 
on  April  ii,  1492  and  dying  on  21st  of  December  1549,  stood  at 
the  center  of  the  literary  circle  gathered  at  the  court  of  her  brother, 
Francis  i.  Rabelais  thought  a  great  deal  of  her  and  dedicated  the  third 
book  of  his  Pantagruel  to  her.  Clement  Marot  who  poetized  about 
her  was  regarded  as  her  lover.  The  fruit  of  this  social  intercourse 
was  the  Heptameron  des  nouvelles  which  was  written  in  conscious 
debt  to  Boccaccio.  The  seventy-two  stories  are  spread  over  eight 
days,  and  the  introduction  as  well  as  the  general  scheme  of  the  book 

69 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FEANCE 
reminds  one  of  the  great  Italian  masterpiece.  A  company  of  ladies 
and  gentlemen  who  are  journeying  to  the  Pyrenees  to  take  the 
baths,  take  refuge  in  a  monastery  in  order  to  escape  a  storm  and 
flood.  To  beguile  the  tedium  of  the  enforced  delay,  everyone  of 
the  group  tells  a  love  story.  Besides  certain  very  tolerant  opinions 
springing  from  the  spirit  of  a  sophisticated  humanitarianism,  there 
are  some  extremely  forceful  attacks  on  the  evils  of  the  time,  espe- 
cially on  the  abuses  of  the  church,  and  the  immorality,  pride  and 
superstition  of  the  monks.  French  literature  owes  its  first  fluent  and 
merry  book  of  entertainment,  free  from  excessive  erudition  and 
bombastic  euphuism,  to  Marguerite. 

In  her  introduction  the  authoress  relates  how  the  Dauphin,  and 
Madame  Marguerite  (that  is,  herself)  had  resolved  jointly  and  with 
the  further  assistance  of  other  ladies,  to  write  a  collection  of  stories 
like  Boccaccio's,  whose  work  but  recently  translated  by  a  secretary 
of  the  king,  had  met  with  great  success.  Lotheisen  believes  that 
the  stories  were  not  meant  for  publication  but  were  intended  only 
for  a  small  circle  of  friends.  In  1550  the  first  edition  was  issued  by 
Pierre  Boaistuau  under  the  title:  Histoire  des  amans  fortunes  but 
it  did  not  bear  Marguerite's  name.  However,  since  he  had  mutilated 
the  text  Marguerite's  daughter,  Johanna  of  Navarre,  caused  to  be 
issued  in  1559  a  more  conscientious  but  castrated  text,  under  the 
title  by  which  it  has  come  to  be  known:  The  Heptaineron.  Later 
editions  contain  the  unmutilated  text. 

The  authoress  set  as  her  task  the  narration  of  real  occurrences 
and  historical  incidents,  in  the  form  of  the  very  short  stories  that 
her  age  loved.  Generally  they  are  of  a  prurient  nature  but  told 
with  a  seemingly  naive  candor.  However  erotic  they  may  be,  they 
are  told  quite  undisguisedly  but  they  do  not  aim  to  excite  the  read- 
er through  lascivious  descriptions.  Marguerite's  pen  was  moved 
by  joy  in  writing  these  venereal  anecdotes  which  are  well  able  to 

70 


BOOK  II:  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTUKY 
arouse  even  the  modern  reader's  laughter.  Marguerite  was  thor- 
oughly aware  of  the  daring  nature  of  her  material  but  it  was  part 
of  the  age  and  she  was  certainly  no  prude  among  her  contempo- 
raries. And  sometimes,  when  an  extremely  erotic  tale  is  told,  Mar- 
guerite was  shrewd  enough,  aping  the  hypocrisy  of  her  time,  to 
make  it  yield  a  pious  moral. 

Beroalde  de  Verville,  des  Periers  and  Margaret  of  Valois  are 
then  a  few  of  the  most  significant  representatives  of  French  writers 
of  funny  tales.  Their  work  is  by  no  means  diminished  in  import- 
ance because  they  borrowed  most  of  their  material  from  popular 
sources.  Karl  Amrain  (Anthropophytheia  x,  248)  gives  a  very  illu- 
minating explanation  of  the  wandering  of  such  stories.  He  holds 
that  the  female  domestics  who  are  notorious  for  their  love  of  tattle 
put  into  circulation  all  the  intimate  details,  love  talk,  panurgics, 
obscenity,  and  chit-chat  of  their  sensual  and  loose  mistresses,  the 
high  born  ladies  whom  they  prepared  for  love.  The  tales  then  ran  the 
gamut  of  the  lower  classes  and  the  best  were  embellished  and  mag- 
nified. Finally  the  poets  and  collectors  of  facetiae  gave  them  pi- 
quant form  and  thus  they  reached  the  upper  classes.  This  explains 
the  frequent  recurrence  of  similar  stories  in  collections  far  re- 
moved in  space  and  time.  There  is  no  question  of  plagiarism  at  all. 
Even  today  there  are  extant  among  people  jokes  and  anecdotes 
which  first  appeared  hundreds  of  years  ago. 

When  we  discussed  the  Heptmneron  we  mentioned  the  name 
of  Clement  Marot.  Born  in  1495,  he  early  became  a  page  at  the 
court  of  Marguerite  where  his  charm  and  wit  brought  him  much 
success  with  women.  As  valet  to  the  king,  he  stood  in  close  relation- 
ship to  Diana  of  Poitiers.  He  accompanied  Francis  i  on  the  latter's 
expedition  into  Italy,  was  wounded  near  Pavia  and  captured,  but 
was  soon  released,  and  in  1525  was  back  in  France.  All  sorts  of 
gallant  adventures  together  with  the  suspicion  that  he  inclined 

71 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
to  Calvinism  brought  him  to  jail,  but  he  was  released  at  the  com- 
mand of  the  king.  He  then  went  to  Geneva  where  he  became  a 
member  of  the  reformed  church,  but  owing  to  his  amorous  exploits 
was  banished  from  the  city.  He  went  back  to  Italy  where  he  re- 
turned to  Catholicism,  dying  at  Turin  in  September  1 544  in  com- 
parative poverty. 

Of  his  many  writings  only  the  Epigrams  are  readable  today. 
No  matter  how  brilliant  his  other  poems  are  they  are  vitiated  by 
the  defects  of  the  style  of  the  time,  the  obsolete  emotion  and  pon- 
derous pomp.  For  erotica  however  Marot  found  the  clear  classic 
form  of  the  epigram  whose  master  he  was.  He  was  able  to  enclose 
a  whole  Italian  story  in  eight  lines  of  verse;  and  so  great  was  his 
skill  that  this  morsel  contained  all  the  spice  of  the  original.  The 
age  he  lived  in  with  its  intense  joy  in  love  gave  him  the  mate- 
rial for  his  maddest  inspirations  and  he  created  pictures  which 
recall  the  strength  of  a  Goya.  Marot's  epigrams  entertained  and 
corrupted  the  dazzling  court  of  Francis,  and  they  still  sparkle,  like 
little  mirrors,  with  all  the  license  and  insouciance  of  that  time. 

The  driving  force  of  Marot's  period,  the  force  that  colored  and 
ruled  over  its  thought  and  emotion  was  the  erotic.  It  has  been  sug- 
gested that  Charles  viii  of  Burgundy,  to  whom  all  Europe  is  re- 
sponsible for  the  spreading  of  lues  (according  to  Bloch)  undertook 
his  Italian  expedition  merely  because  he  yearned  for  Italian  women. 
He  and  his  men  were  received  with  great  enthusiasm.  For  over 
one  hundred  and  twenty  days  and  nights,  the  king  and  his  soldiery 
revelled  in  a  limitlessly  giddy  life,  until  the  defeat  at  the  river  Tarro 
on  July  6,  1495.  He  was  just  barely  able  to  force  his  march  with  a 
part  of  his  baggage.  The  Veronese  physician  Alexander  Benedictus 
who  was  an  eye  witness  related  that  among  the  booty  there  was 
found  the  illustrated  diary  of  the  king  in  which  were  inscribed  the 
names  of  all  the  beauties  whose  lover  he  had  been,  and  each  one 

72 


BOOK  II:  THE  SIXTEENTH  CENTUMY 
was  pictured  therein  with  all  her  charms.  In  this  way  did  the  royal 
libertine  hope  to  perpetuate  the  memory  of  the  pleasures  of  his 
insane  sensuality  in  various  Italian  cities.  But  this  catalogue  has 
been  lost.  The  loveliest  and  noblest  of  the  creatures  arranged  a 
grandiose  spectacle  at  Chieri  on  September  6,  1494.  They  wanted  to 
wish  the  monarch  luck  upon  his  arrival  and  proclaim  him  the  pro- 
tector of  the  fair  sex.  Among  other  scenes  which  they  portrayed  for 
his  royal  delectation  was  an  actual  confinement. 

There  is  one  authentic  eye  witness  who  has  depicted  the  un- 
bridled life  of  pleasure  characteristic  of  his  time  with  clarity  and 
fidelity,  namely  Pierre  de  Bourdeille,  Seigneur  de  Brantome  ( 1 539- 
I6I4).  His  childhood  was  spent  at  the  court  of  the  queen  of  Na- 
varre. Henry  11  bestowed  upon  him  the  abbey  of  Brantome,  by 
which  name  he  has  come  to  be  remembered.  After  journeys  through 
Italy,  Spain,  England  and  Scotland  he  participated  in  the  cam- 
paigns of  his  time  and  finally  in  a  sudden  fall  of  his  horse  sustained 
grave  injuries  which  kept  him  in  bed  for  four  whole  years.  During 
this  period  he  devoted  himself  to  study  and  to  the  writing  of  his 
works.  On  July  5,  16 14  he  retired  to  his  castle  which  he  had  built 
at  Richmont,  a  mile  and  a  half  away  from  the  abbey.  His  most  famous 
work,  Gallant  Ladies,  is  entirely  subjective  throughout.  We  see  and 
hear  the  courtiers  who  have  been  bom  and  reared  in  fastidiousness, 
and  how  they  trifle  away  their  days.  Everything  amuses  them,  for 
everything  has  a  ridiculous  side.  Brantome  is  a  brilliant  chatterer, 
nonchalant  and  amusing,  who  blurts  out  the  secrets  of  discreet 
alcoves  with  cunning  little  eyes  and  corked  ears.  We  moderns  are 
attracted  by  the  impartiality  of  his  presentation,  and  with  the  un- 
concerned manner  in  which  he  treats  the  most  intimate  things.  But 
the  charge  of  frivolity  cannot  be  maintained  against  him.  There 
are  many  contributions  to  sexual  pathology  in  his  work.  And  not 

73 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FMANCE 
alone  for  this  reason  is  it  of  definite  value  to  the  physician  as  well 
as  to  the  historian. 

His  chronicle  of  scandals  contains  seven  treatises  on  the  follow- 
ing themes — i:  Concerning  women  who  cultivate  love  and  make 
their  husbands  cuckolds,  2:  What  has  the  most  charm  in  love — the 
emotion,  the  face,  or  speech.  3 :  Concerning  pretty  legs  and  their 
charms.  4:  Concerning  older  ladies  who  are  as  eager  for  love  as 
their  younger  sisters.  5:  How  fair  and  honorable  ladies  love  valiant 
men,  and  the  latter,  courageous  women.  6:  Why  one  should  never 
speak  ill  of  women,  and  of  the  consequences  that  follow  therefrom. 
7:  Concerning  married  women,  widows  and  maids,  and  which  of 
these  are  the  best  to  love. 

These  seven  headings  by  no  means  exhaust  the  contents  of  the 
work.  Brantome  no  sooner  begins  his  theme  than  every  name  and 
expression  calls  up  an  anecdote  which  he  promptly  sets  down.  This 
in  turn  provides  material  for  interesting  parallels,  and  so  he  labori- 
ously returns  to  the  starting  point — but  he  doesn't  stay  there  very 
long.  For  very  soon  another  ton  mot  or  piquant  story  ensnares  him 
which  he  cannot  for  all  the  world  pass  over.  He  gives  homage  to 
the  beautiful  and  "honorable"  women  who  grant  their  love  despite 
marital  shackles,  whenever  and  to  whomsoever  they  please,  and  his 
sympathy  is  entirely  on  the  side  of  the  fair  sex.  A  tremendous 
amount  of  interesting  material  is  revealed  to  us  in  this  work  which 
is  of  great  value  in  the  history  of  culture  and  manners,  because  it  re- 
veals to  us  a  clearer  and  more  consistent  picture  of  that  period  than 
could  be  derived  from  a  thousand  sermons. 


e|,^^e|*^*^e|*^4*4'#4*##4*#4*4*4'4*#4*#4*###4'4' 


CHAPTER  V 

THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 


THE  good  old  times"  to  which  harmless  old  souls  always  refer, 
never  really  existed.  They  are  merely  a  Utopia,  a  beautiful 
and  pious  wish,  but  alas!  no  more.  Every  century  has  its  merits  and 
its  weaknesses.  No  age  is  really  better  or  worse;  it  is  merely  differ- 
ent. The  personal  viewpoint  of  the  historian  is  responsible  for  his 
drawing  one  age  in  gray  and  another  in  rosy  colors. 

In  sixteenth  century  France  we  already  find  all  genres  of  litera- 
ture and  erotic  writers,  from  the  most  delicate  emotional  depictions 
to  the  foulest  brothel-poetry,  from  the  serious  learned  writer  to 
the  coarsest  and  most  unintelligent  buffoon.  And  in  the  France  of 
the  seventeenth  century,  there  is  no  lack  of  erotic  light  literature, 
nor  of  anti-royalist  and  anti-clerical  pamphlets,  nor  of  free  chan- 
sons, nor  of  lascivious  popularizations  and  outlines  of  sex. 

Thus  for  instance  we  might  mention  the  pamphlet  which  Adrien 
de  Montluc  directed  against  the  government,  entitled  Infortwie 
des  filles  de  joie  siiivie  de  la  Maigre  (1648).  In  this  brochure  the 
author  espouses  most  energetically  the  interests  of  the  filles  de  joies 
whom  there  was  talk  of  compelling  to  settle  outside  the  walls  of 
Paris.  Lupanie,  histoire  ajnoureuse  de  ce  temps  (1668),  attributed 
to  Blessebois,  is  generally  regarded  as  a  satire  directed  against  the 
Montespan,  but  erroneously,  since  this  short  erotic  story  portrays 
a  middle  class  milieu.  This  same  Pierre  de  Blessebois  was  also  the 
author  of  another  work:  Le  Rut,  which  contains  an  indiscreet  and 

75 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
candid  account  of  his  relations  with  a  Mile.  Scay.  In  addition,  there 
are  extant  a  number  of  scandalous  stories  about  Alen9on  which  the 
author  terms  a  modern  Sodom. 

Every  one  of  the  crowned  heads  served  as  a  target  for  obscene 
jest  and  satire,  despite  the  extremely  strict  censorship.  For  example 
there  is  the  Description  de  Visle  des  Hermaphrodites  directed 
against  the  bisexual  Henry  in,  and  the  Histoire  secrete  des  Amours 
d' Henri  IV  by  Caucont  de  la  Force,  which  exposes  the  love-life 
of  Henri  iv. 

The  immoral  life  of  the  clergy  and  the  inmates  of  the  convents 
are  criticised  in  Le  libertinage  secret  de  cloitre,  (1683)  and  Le 
moine  au  parloir  (1682).  The  latter  work  is  a  collection  of  more 
than  bold  tales  and  anecdotes,  in  prose  and  verse,  whose  chief 
headings  will  give  one  a  notion  of  the  contents:  les  tetons  naissants, 
la  religieuse  en  chemise,  V accouchement,  le  chat,  le  ventre  litre,  le 
bon  office,  etc. 

Collections  of  chansons  are  very  numerous.  I  will  merely  mention 
the  Le  nouveau  cabinet  des  Muses  gaillardes  (1660),  reprinted  fre- 
quently in  the  eighteenth,  nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries. 

Among  the  most  important  works  in  the  popularizations  of  sex, 
should  be  mentioned  Tableau  de  V amour  conjugal  (1685),  by 
Nicolas  Venette,  often  reprinted,  and  Le  nouveau  jardin  de  V amour 
(1671). 

In  other  words,  in  this  erotic  history  of  France  no  lengthy  proof 
is  needed  that  lascivious  literature  existed  there  in  the  seventeenth 
century.  Indeed,  contemporary  writers  confirm  the  inclination  of 
their  contemporaries  to  excesses,  and  to  a  naturalistic  conception 
of  the  sexual.  Nevertheless,  their  testimony  must  be  accepted  with 
great  reservation,  for  the  greatest  failing  of  most  historians  is  the 
tendency  to  generalize  from  but  a  few  if  true  particulars.  It  would 
be  absurd  to  brand  an  age  as  evil  and  barbarous  because  immorality 

76 


BOOK  II:  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTURY 
and  brutality  were  immoderately  widespread.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  erotic  manners  occupied  a  predominating  place  in  seventeenth- 
century  France;  but  it  is  equally  certain  that  there  were  to  be  found 
unprejudiced  and  incorruptible  men  who  did  not  permit  them- 
selves to  be  swept  away  by  the  whirlpool  of  sensuality  but  kept 
their  heads  cool  in  order  to  judge  the  weaknesses  of  their  time.  A 
few  such  will  now  be  mentioned. 

Chief  among  these  writers  is  Gideon  Tallement  des  Reaux  ( 1 6 19- 
1692)  whose  Histoiriettes  is  of  the  first  importance  for  a  knowledge 
of  the  manners  and  morals  of  the  time.  What  Brantome  was  to  the 
age  of  Francis  i,  Tallement  is  for  that  of  Henry  iv  and  Louis  xiii. 
While  Brantome  is  lengthy  and  detailed,  the  later  writer  is  brief, 
succinct,  and  hence  pleasant  to  read.  For  a  long  time  the  manuscript 
remained  unprinted.  In  1803  when  the  library  of  the  Castle  of 
Montigny  was  sold,  the  Marquis  de  Chateaugiron  purchased  it  for 
twenty  francs,  had  the  798  folio  pages  copied.  Later,  when  the 
society  of  French  Bibliophiles  was  organized,  he  turned  it  over  to 
them  for  publication.  Since  1833-36  when  the  first  edition  appeared 
there  have  been  numerous  other  editions. 

Another  writer  of  significance  is  Bussy-Rabutin,  the  notorious 
author  of  the  Histoire  amoureuse  des  Gaules.  He  sprang  from  a 
very  distinguished  family,  entered  the  military  service  very  early 
and  earned  great  distinction.  During  the  war  of  the  Fronde  he 
first  served  Prince  Conde  but  then  took  the  side  of  the  King.  Until 
1659  he  was  lucky,  but  afterwards  a  series  of  misfortunes  descended 
upon  him.  The  most  improbable  rumors  were  circulated  about  him. 
Thus  he  was  reputed,  in  the  company  of  three  cronies,  to  have 
celebrated  the  black  mass  during  passion  week;  and  again,  to  have 
exhumed  a  corpse  with  which  his  drunken  fellows  danced  crazy 
dances.  The  penalty  for  these  rumored  extravaganzas  was  a  year  of 
exile.  What  made  his  transgressions  worse  in  the  eyes  of  the  king, 

77 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FEANCE 
was  the  growing  distribution  of  the  Histoire  amoiireiise  des  Gaiiles. 
Bussy  had  hit  upon  the  idea  of  writing  down  the  gallant  adventures  of 
great  ladies,  partly  for  his  own  pastime  and  partly  for  the  delecta- 
tion of  his  mistress,  Madame  de  Monglas.  Only  four  or  five  persons 
were  permitted  to  read  the  manuscript  but  one  of  these  few  was  a 
traitor.  Madame  La  Baume  divulged  the  contents,  and  what  was 
much  worse  for  the  author  several  courtiers  were  able  to  persuade 
Louis  XIV  that  his  mistress  had  not  fared  so  well  in  this  work.  The 
embittered  king  didn't  hesitate  to  sentence  the  foolhardy  pamphlet- 
eer, who  had  had  the  additional  audacity  to  send  him  the  manu- 
script, to  thirteen  months  in  the  Bastille.  After  his  release,  Bussy  had 
to  retire  to  his  estate,  and  it  was  not  until  1682  that  he  regained 
permission  to  reappear  at  court.  In  1693  he  died  at  the  age  of  sev- 
enty-five. There  is  no  doubt  that  Bussy  owed  his  incarceration 
entirely  to  the  king's  personal  displeasure  for  there  was  nothing 
novel  in  the  Histoire  to  justify  his  punishment.  At  the  same  time 
various  other  works  and  collections  of  courtly  gossip  had  appeared 
and  their  authors  were  not  molested:  Histoire  cf  amours  d' Henri  IV 
avec  diverses  lettres  escrites  a  ses  maitresses,  et  aiitres  pieces  curi- 
euses  ( 1 664) ;  and  Les  Amours  du  Palais  Royal  ( 1 66^).  All  of  them 
sought  to  show  that  under  Henry  iv  and  Louis  xiii  marital  infidelity 
was  a  pastime,  under  Louis  xrv  a  rule,  and  later  an  obligation.  The 
cuckolded  husband  was  regarded  not  as  a  tragic  person  but  always 
a  comical  creature  at  whose  expense  one  had  lots  of  fun;  indeed,  not 
even  crowned  heads  were  immune  from  the  fate  of  wearing  horns. 
The  various  editions  of  the  Histoire  were  naturally  secretly  printed 
and  distributed. 

Bussy-Rabutin  can  also  be  regarded  as  the  author  of  an  extremely 
obscene  comedy  La  Comtesse  d'Olonne  which  was  circulated  in 
many  editions.  The  play  is  enacted  in  the  bedroom  of  the  Comtesse 
of  Olonne.  Argenie,  who  represents  the  countess  suddenly  awakes 

78 


BOOK  II:  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTUEY 
in  her  bed,  in  a  fright  induced  by  a  nightmare.  In  her  dream  she 
sees  her  former  lover  and  husband,  the  duke  of  Candole.  As  she 
berates  him  for  his  neglect  of  marital  duties  he  breaks  out  into 
imprecations,  and  prophesies  the  impotence  of  Argenie's  next  lover. 
The  account  of  the  dream  is  interrupted  by  the  visit  of  a  friend, 
the  Countess  Fiesko.  Argenie,  who  has  a  violent  passion  for  Count 
Guiches,  sounds  her  friend  about  the  latter,  and  is  informed  that  he 
is  a  zealous  skirt  chaser.  This  news  doesn't  discourage  the  countess 
at  all  and  the  next  scene  finds  her  in  a  love  episode  with  the  object 
of  her  desires  who  at  first  labors  under  the  curse  foretold  in  the 
dream.  It  is  only  after  many  repeated  exertions  that  the  Count 
triumphs  and  then  both  lovers  compliment  each  other  upon  their 
venereal  prowess. 

An  important  contribution  to  the  history  of  morals  was  made 
by  Count  Anthony  Hamilton  (i 646-1 721)  in  his  Memoir es  du 
Comte  de  Grammont  ( 17 1 3),  in  which  he  describes  the  loves  of  his 
brother-in-law,  Count  Philibert  of  Grammont,  at  the  court  of 
Charles  11  of  England.  The  Memoir  es  of  Duke  Saint-Simon  also  con- 
tain much  important  material. 

When  we  turn  to  belles  lettres  we  find  that  light  literature  in 
general  which  has  no  artistic  aims  but  is  created  for  no  higher  pur- 
pose than  entertainment,  does  not  evince  a  particularly  high  moral 
conception.  Stories  were  proliferated  in  whole  series  as  well  as  in 
single  works,  and  no  country,  historical  epoch  or  personality  was 
safe  from  exploitation  as  a  possible  theme.  There  was  nothing  that 
could  daunt  the  insatiable  commercial  ambitions  of  the  writers  of 
this  fustian.  If  one  series  failed,  it  was  refurbished  with  a  new  title 
and  was  once  again  sent  into  the  world.  The  curiosity  and  libidin- 

ousness  of  readers  was  aroused  by  such  titles  as  Les  amours  de , 

Histoire  avioureuse,  etc.  By  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century  this 

79 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FRANCE 
genre  which  had  been  losing  in  artistic  value  every  year  was  only 
fit  for  supplementary  readings  by  the  unlettered. 

In  all  these  tales  the  word  "love"  occurs  constantly,  and  accom- 
panies man  from  cradle  to  the  grave.  Children  live  in  expectation 
of  future  love,  and  the  aged  revel  in  memories  of  past  loves.  But 
withal  this  "love"  is  no  emotional  content.  It  is  merely  a  means  of 
pleasure  without  any  depth,  nothing  more  than  gallantry.  This  was 
perhaps  induced  by  excessive  prudishness  for  in  the  attempt  to  ap- 
pear "decent"  these  scribblers  fell  into  affectation.  The  effort  to 
remove  all  sensual  elements  from  the  sphere  of  love  led  to  the  same 
folly  as  the  converse  effort  to  banish  all  ethical  elements. 

Despite  the  reign  of  the  precious,  mannered  style  there  were 
none  the  less  dissenting  voices.  Moliere  in  his  Les  Precieuses  led  the 
battle  against  the  current  folly  and  lesser  figures  helped  to  prove 
that  original  wit  still  could  be  found.  In  his  humorous  novel  Franc- 
ion  (1622)  Sorel  de  Souvigny  poked  fun  at  the  idyllic  and  precious 
tales  of  his  period  and  included  a  number  of  dirty  stories  for  the 
sake  of  the  moral  effect. 

Gradually  the  sexual  note  became  more  audible  in  the  higher 
type  of  novel  and  play.  For  the  first  time  a  courtesan  was  displayed, 
without  any  camouflaging,  in  the  Gustav  Vasa  of  Madame  de  la 
Force.  Soon  the  password  of  the  time  was  Volupte,  the  sentimental 
ecstasy  which  exercised  complete  control  over  the  senses  and  the 
souls  of  men.  The  olfactory  organ  of  upright  and  unprejudiced 
apprentices  accustomed  to  the  strong  smell  of  the  stable  could 
find  but  little  joy  in  the  close  odor  of  the  perfumed  salon.  By  the 
side  of  the  ethereal  poesy  of  the  precious,  the  century  can  show 
a  number  of  strong  erotics  which  have  not  yet  lost  their  original 
attractiveness,  especially  the  Aloisia  Sigea  and  Vecole  des  filles. 

Undoubtedly  the  most  famous  erotic  work  in  world  literature 
after  Aretino's  Raggionamenti  is  the  Aloisia  or  Luisa  Sigea,  as  it  is 


BOOK  II:  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTUMY 
titled  in  English.  These  dialogues  of  love  appeared  in  1660.  The 
supposedly  Spanish  authoress  who  was  as  a  matter  of  fact  a  des- 
cendant of  French  stock  and  later  became  court  lady  to  Donna 
Maria  of  Portugal,  was  bom  about  1500  and  died  in  1560.  Her 
chastity  and  virtuous  deportment  brought  her  many  admirers 
throughout  the  Spanish  realm.  But  this  did  not  hinder  the  real 
author  from  bringing  her  name  into  connection  with  erotic  ob- 
scenity par  excellence.  It  was  perfectly  clear  to  the  thinking  people 
of  that  time  that  no  such  book  could  have  been  composed  by  a 
woman,  least  of  all  by  one  who  led  such  an  exemplary  life.  Nor 
has  the  supposititious  translator,  the  famous  professor  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Leyden  any  relation  with  the  dialogue;  for  the  real 
author,  the  lawyer  Nicolas  Chorier  of  Grenoble,  composed  it  in 
the  Latin  language.  The  latter  lived  between  1622  and  1692,  became 
a  doctor  of  laws  at  the  age  of  seventeen,  procureur  du  roi  in  1 666^ 
and  later  was  raised  to  the  nobility.  He  enjoyed  a  pretty  unsavory 
reputation  and  was,  for  example,  accused  of  having  stolen  three 
capitularies  from  the  archives  of  the  Archbishop  of  Grenoble  which 
he  later  shamelessly  sold  back  to  the  cleric  at  considerable  prices. 
At  the  expense  of  a  M.  de  May,  the  attorney-general  of  the  Par- 
lement,  Chorier's  dialogues  were  published  by  a  Grenoble  book- 
seller, one  Nicolas.  The  latter  had  to  shut  down  his  business  and 
flee  to  escape  worse  punishment,  which  was  only  stayed  at  the 
intervention  of  very  powerful  friends.  Search  was  instituted  for 
the  author  but  Chorier  was  passed  by  since  Aloisia  contained  two 
Latin  verses  composed  by  him  and  published  in  1680  among  a  vol- 
ume containing  his  own  Latin  poems.  He  maintained  that  these 
verses  had  been  stolen  and  inserted  into  the  Aloisia  to  mislead  the 
public. 

In  the  introduction  the  author,  anonymously  of  course,  employs 
a  trick  dear  to  contemporary  authors  of  erotica.  He  describes  him- 

81 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FMAMCE 
self  as  having  miraculously  come  into  possession  of  the  lost  manu- 
script of  Meursius:  "It  were  a  pity  to  withhold  these  dialogues 
from  our  generation.  Who  could  be  so  dull  and  insensible  as  not 
to  grieve  over  the  deprivation  of  such  piquant,  such  pleasant,  nay, 
such  instructive  percepts  of  a  merry  life?"  Chorier  had  living  mod- 
els for  the  characters  of  this  Sotadicum  but  we  have  no  key  to 
identify  them  by.  Alcide  Bonneau  claims  that  there  was  one  copy 
of  this  \vork  in  which  a  contemporary  had  indicated  the  key  in 
notes  scrawled  across  the  margins  of  his  private  copy.  According  to 
this,  the  heroine  of  the  tale  narrated  by  Octavia  in  the  Fascennine 
dialogue  was  a  certain  Anastasie  Serment  whose  beauty,  wit  and 
free  life  in  Paris  were  celebrated  by  Comeille  and  Quinault.  Per- 
haps too  Chorier  composed  preliminary  studies  for  the  dialogues 
since  he  speaks  in  his  memoirs  of  a  book,  designated  as  Anecdota, 
neither  published  nor  shown  to  his  friends,  in  which  he  had  de- 
scribed ninety-five  intimate  and  scandalous  portraits  of  men  and 
women  known  to  him.  If  these  anecdotes  are  not  identical  with 
Luisa  Sigea,  as  Bonneau  hints,  we  must  lament  the  loss  of  a  valuable 
work. 

Despite  the  fact  that  Chorier's  authorship  was  so  successfully 
concealed  as  to  prevent  agreement  even  by  recent  authorities,  the 
fiction  of  the  translation  from  the  Spanish  seems  transparent  e- 
nough.  Had  the  manuscript  been  translated  from  that  tongue  and 
were  the  authoress  a  Spanish  lady,  it  would  appear  remarkable  that 
practically  all  the  action  takes  place  in  Italy,  and  that  all  the  char- 
acters are  Itahans.  If  examples  are  chosen  from  other  lands  it  is 
France  and  Germany  but  never  Spain  that  is  called  upon.  Chorier 
probably  saw  the  force  of  this  point  himself  as  time  went  on,  for 
in  the  Geneva  edition  of  1678  he  added  a  seventh  dialogue  which 
is  enacted  in  its  entirety  upon  Spanish  soil  and  by  Spanish  char- 
acters; but  there  is  no  word  in  explanation  of  the  addition. 

82 


BOOK  II:  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTUKY 
It  is  perhaps  possible  that  Chorier  entertained  hopes  of  revising 
the  whole  work  to  make  good  the  omission,  but  the  plan  was  never 
carried  out.  It  is  much  more  likely  that  he  left  many  gaps  in  his  work 
which  would  at  once  give  verisimilitude  to  his  work  and  thus  lend 
it  greater  plausibility  as  well  as  diverting  suspicion  of  its  authorship 
from  himself.  In  the  latter  ambition  he  was  entirely  successful  and 
he  remained  unmolested,  for  no  proofs  could  be  obtained  against 
him.  He  was  careful  not  to  give  any  sign  that  the  work  was  his  own 
except  for  a  few  small  hints  in  other  works.  Thus  in  his  memoirs, 
no  longer  accessible  today,  he  mentions  two  youthful  works  one 
of  which  was  of  a  sotadic  nature,  which  may  refer  to  the  dialogues. 
Then  too,  the  edition  of  1678  contains  a  short  poem  which  had 
appeared  in  the  edition  of  his  Latin  poems  published  in  1670.  Now 
this  poem  contains  practically  the  same  denunciations  of  one  Tu- 
bero,  who  was  probably  a  personal  enemy  of  the  author,  so  that  we 
must  assume  a  common  authorship.  Furthermore,  in  1 660  he  caused 
the  work  to  be  printed  in  the  same  format  with  his  other  works. 
Finally,  the  style  is  the  same,  and  the  same  figurative  use  of  words 
leaves  no  doubt  of  Chorier's  authorship. 

The  six  original  dialogues  are  entitled:  The  Skirmish,  Tribadicon, 
Fabric,  the  Duel,  Pleasures,  Frolics  and  Sports.  In  choice,  flowery 
language,  with  copious  erudition  derived  from  Latin  writers,  Ovid 
particularly,  Chorier  describes  with  his  unexampled  frankness,  bril- 
liant wit,  humor,  and  masterful  gifts  of  observation,  the  shameless 
and  lewd  conduct  of  the  higher  classes  of  his  time.  He  employs  the 
same  fidelity  as  Aretino  in  the  latter's  depiction  of  the  mad  econ- 
omy of  the  Roman  procuresses  and  their  world.  Indeed,  Aretino's 
influence  is  undeniable — not  only  in  the  author's  high  praise  of 
this  "divine  genius"  but  also  in  his  assigning  of  the  action  to  the 
same  period  as  the  Raggionajnenti  (about  1530),  and  in  the  use  of 
the  names  of  Aretino's  friends  for  his  chief  characters. 

83 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
The  other  famous  work  of  this  class  bears  the  title  of  Vecole  des 
filles^  etc.  This  original  edition  (1665)  is  lost  today,  but  in  the 
municipal  library  of  Breslau  there  is  to  be  found  a  reprint  dated 
1667.  The  author  is  concerned  to  instruct  in  matters  of  love  those 
young  girls  who  still  live  with  their  mothers,  in  order  that  they 
may  afford  genuine  joy  in  the  sport  of  Venus  to  their  future  hus- 
bands or  lovers.  Hence  the  whole  art  of  love  is  covered  in  two  dia- 
logues. 

Robinet,  a  young  Parisian  merchant  of  the  time  of  Louis  xiii, 
loves  Fanchon  who  is  too  naive  to  know  what's  expected  of  her. 
In  order  to  get  what  he  wants,  he  asks  Susanna,  a  girl  of  experience, 
to  light  the  flame  in  Fanchon.  The  incendiary  does  her  task  so  well 
that  Robinet  soon  finds  a  willing  ear  and  perfect  delight  in  Fan- 
chon. In  the  second  dialogue  Susanna  again  visits  the  other  girl 
who  describes  the  events  of  the  devirgination.  Both  compare  ex- 
periences and  what  one  lacks,  the  other  supplies.  Poems  of  praise 
are  sung  to  the  genitals  of  both  sexes,  and  there  is  a  discussion  of 
those  vicarious  devices  of  love  which  may  fill  a  woman's  solitary 
hours.  In  brief,  we  have  here  a  whole  compendium  of  the  art  of  love. 
The  author  Helot,  Milot,  Millitot  or  Milliot,  as  designated  in  the 
preface,  got  into  very  hot  water  because  of  the  publication  of  this 
book.  He  had  to  flee,  his  book  was  burnt  under  the  gallows  and  his 
effigy  hung  upon  them. 

They  were  not  very  forbearing  during  that  period  in  their  treat- 
ment of  authors  of  such  pornographic  works.  As  early  as  Louis  xiii 
it  was  felt  that  the  art  of  printing  might  become  a  disturber  of  the 
public  peace  and  a  corruption  of  its  morals.  Hence  from  1 660  until 
1756  some  869  authors,  publishers  and  printers  were  sentenced  to 
the  Bastille  for  works  inimical  to  religion,  the  state,  or  morals.  For 
a  libel  against  Mme.  de  Maintenon,  two  printers  were  hung  in  1694, 
and  the  other  participants  severely  punished. 

84 


BOOK  II:  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTUMY 

But  a  generation  earlier  such  a  hard  fate  was  already  the  lot  of 
one  Theophile  de  Viau  whose  life  reminds  one  strongly  of  Villon's 
except  that  the  latter  remains  much  more  sympathetic.  A  collection 
of  very  bawdy  verse  appeared  which  found  but  little  recognition 
at  first,  but  in  1622  a  reprint  was  issued,  augmented  by  numerous 
piquant  pieces  which  were  attributed  to  Colletet  (1598- 1659)  and 
Viau  (1590- 1 62 6)  under  the  title  Le  P^rw^y^e  des  poetes  satyriques. 

The  earlier  work  bore  Viau's  name  upon  the  title  page.  Viau 
denied  authorship  but  his  denial  did  not  help  him  for  very  long. 
A  year  later,  the  hostile  Jesuits  accused  him  of  irrehgion  and  im- 
morality. A  bench  of  judges  selected  to  convict  him  found  the 
charges  true  and  sentenced  our  poet,  after  he  had  fled  to  Chantilly, 
to  death  by  fire.  Bertholet  was  sentenced  to  the  gallows,  and  Colletet 
to  nine  years  of  exile.  On  the  very  day  the  verdict  was  rendered, 
Viau's  effigy  was  burnt  under  the  gallows.  Shortly  afterwards,  he 
was  arrested  and  languished  in  jail  for  two  years  awaiting  his  fate. 
At  the  expiration  of  that  time  Parliament  quashed  the  original  sen- 
tence but  banished  him  from  France. 

Today  we  regard  Viau's  punishment  as  harsh  for  there  were 
other  collections  of  erotic  verse  which  were  tolerated  freely.  One 
example  is  Les  Muses  gaillardes  (1609).  No  fuss  was  ever  made 
about  it  though  there  is  very  little  difference  between  it  and  the 
Farnasse.  From  this  and  other  cases,  we  must  conclude  that  the 
reason  for  Theophile  Viau's  persecution  was  not  his  immorality 
but  his  irreligiosity. 

A  far  greater  popularity  was  enjoyed  by  a  subsequent  collection: 
Le  cabinet  satyrique  (1632).  This  collection  is  one  of  the  cleverest 
products  in  the  field  of  panurgic  poetry.  It  is  one  of  the  few  works 
whose  originality  cannot  be  denied,  nor  should  its  literary  value  be 
underestimated.  An  impartial  reader  cannot  refrain  from  admiring 
the  graceful  treatment  of  single  thoughts,  and  the  pointed  ex- 

85 


THE  EEOTIC  MISTOEY  OF  FMANCE 
pressions.  One  must  go  back  to  Martial  for  a  similar  treatment  of 
equally  clever  thoughts.  Anyone  of  experience  knows  how  mo- 
notonous the  erotic  theme  can  become  unless  wit  and  humor  can 
discover  new  angles  for  treating  the  novel  suggestions.  Hence  we 
can  give  the  full  meed  of  praise  to  the  genius  of  this  much  maligned 
poet.  The  Cabinet  is  not  a  whit  more  decent  than  the  Parnasse  but 
remained  unmolested  by  the  persecutions  which  beset  the  latter, 
because  the  author  was  careful  enough  not  to  attack  religion  and 
the  church. 

Perhaps  a  few  examples  of  these  witty  epigrams  will  help  to 
show  the  nature  of  the  work.  The  author  would  agree  perfectly 
with  Coleridge  that  all  thoughts,  all  passions,  desires,  whatever  stirs 
this  mortal  frame,  all  are  but  instruments  of  love  and  minister  to  his 
sacred  flame.  He  would  even  go  further  and  insist  that  the  sexual  em- 
brace is  the  paramount,  propulsive,  central  goal  of  all  human  activ- 
ity. But  this  embrace  is  entirely  dependent  on  the  whim  of  the 
Master  Iste. 

Hence  an  impotent  man  cannot  be  counted  in  the  council  of 
men  who  can  calculate  their  happiness  in  accordance  with  their 
priapic  perimeters.  Thus  a  youth  who  craves  the  highest  favor  of 
his  lady  but  who  has  been  but  poorly  provided  is  answered  by  her: 
"Remove  it!  I'm  afraid  it's  a  caterpillar." — If  a  maiden  loves  to 
play  the  flute,  the  poet  knows  another  instrument  for  her  artistic 
efforts. — Or,  "Madame,  I  bring  you  a  beautiful  bird." — "But  this 
is  no  bird."  "Well,  I  admit  there  is  a  slight  difference.  Whereas 
other  birds  hate  to  get  into  cages,  this  one  yearns  for  it  so  much 
that  it  weeps  with  joy." 

The  more  or  less  skillful  pretenses  of  girls  who  give  themselves 
if  the  man  is  only  daring  enough,  are  jeered  at  ironically.  "I  told  her 
that  I  wanted  it.  She  was  angry  when  she  heard  it.  But  when  I  did  it 
a  little  while  later  I  noticed  that  she  thoroughly  enjoyed  it,  although 


BOOK  II:  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTUMY 
she  hadn't  with  her  ears  shortly  before." — A  young  man  tells 
his  sweetheart:  "I  am  so  full  of  love  I  can't  sleep  nights.  You  don't 
believe  me?  Very  well.  Just  let  me  sleep  with  you  and  you'll  see." 
— The  newly  wedded  wife  asks  her  husband  on  the  wedding 
night:  "Am  I  not  sweet?" — "Yes,"  answers  the  newly  wedded  hus- 
band, "but  the  devil  take  the  man  who  taught  you  it." A  cuckold 

returns  home  in  a  dark  night  and  uses  his  marital  privileges.  But 
when  he  begins  to  speak,  the  loving  wife  sighs  disappointedly  and 
murmurs  sleepily:  "O,  it's  only  you." — When  Lisa's  song  is  praised 
"you  mustn't  say  she  sings  like  an  angel  but  that  she  sings  as  though 
she  were  being  loved  up." 

It  is  questionable  who  is  more  versed  in  the  art — men  or  women. 
A  lady  promised  a  large  sum  of  money  to  a  poet  if  he  would  lead 
her  into  Eden's  lovely  paradise  ten  times  in  one  night.  "Very  well," 
he  replies  "count  out  the  money  and  get  ready."  Occasionally  the 
debt  to  Martial  is  very  obvious,  giving  the  impression  of  a  transla- 
tion. Thus  in  the  case  of  Lisa  who  once  received  a  fortune  for  her 
favors  but  has  since  sunk  so  low  that  no  one  wants  her  even  gratis. 
Or  when  a  man  sends  one  of  his  friends  Aretino's  posuires  but  ad- 
vises him  to  have  a  girl  around  lest  he  become  a  husband  without 
a  wife. 

Aside  from  these  verses  on  special  incidents  there  are  many  of 
a  more  general  nature:  the  defense  of  breasts  worn  exposed,  blasts 
against  courtesans,  jeremiads  inspired  by  gallant  disease,  compari- 
son of  the  instruments  of  love  with  all  possible  things,  comparison 
of  the  two  genital  apparatuses,  paeans  to  the  male  organ,  and  lyrics 
on  the  female  parts.  These  few  comments  will  afford  some  notion 
of  the  highly  interesting  contents  of  this  compilation. 

The  lion's  share  of  this  compilation  was  borne  by  Mathurin 
Regnier  (i573-i6i3),a  priest  who  led  a  fairly  loose  life  in  which, 
to  be  sure,  he  differed  but  Httle  from  many  of  his  colleagues.  But 

S7 


THE  EEOTIC  MISTOHY  OF  FEANCE 
intellectually,  he  stood  head  and  shoulders  above  them  and  became 
the  founder  of  the  so  called  classic  satire  in  France.  Possessed  of 
a  thoroughly  sensuous  nature,  he  exercised  no  inhibitions  on  the 
choice  of  his  expressions.  His  presentation  is  naturalistic,  but  not 
earnest;  factual,  but  merry.  His  purpose  was  to  make  those  whom 
he  attacked  ridiculous,  and  every  means,  including  obscenity,  was 
valid  for  this  purpose. 

Nevertheless,  despite  their  undoubted  importance  the  mass  of 
such  writings  and  writers  are  known  only  to  students  of  the  erotic 
history  of  French  literature  and  to  a  number  of  book  collectors 
of  erotics.  But  there  is  one  man  of  this  century  who  still  lives,  Jean 
La  Fontaine  (162 1- 1695).  ^^  i^  proof  of  the  contention  that  to 
achieve  immortality  it  is  not  necessary  to  have  contributed  epoch- 
making  discoveries  or  profound  investigations  in  some  realm  of 
human  research.  La  Fontaine  did  none  of  these  things.  All  he  did 
was  to  write  light  verse  about  common  themes  filled  with  the  charm 
of  his  own  personality.  With  the  same  openness  and  grace  that 
characterized  his  fables  he  later  versified  the  themes  of  the  old 
French  fabliaux,  of  Boccaccio,  Ariosto,  the  Hundred  Merry  Tales, 
and  Rabelais. 

In  1655  the  first  volume  of  his  Contes  appeared  which  owed  its 
composition  to  Marie  Ann  Mancini,  duchess  of  Bouillon  and  niece 
of  Mazarin,  the  French  cardinal  and  prime  minister  under  Louis  xiv. 
The  second  volume  appeared  in  1666  and  aroused  the  king's  dis- 
pleasure. At  a  time  when  the  precious  bluestockings  set  the  tone 
and  when  d'Urfee's  WAstree  was  the  popular  book  of  high  society, 
the  open  eroticism  of  La  Fontaine  could  not  elicit  undivided  ap- 
plause. TTie  publication  of  the  third  book  took  place  in  1675, 
at  the  instigation  of  the  clergy.  Yet  on  the  same  day  on  which 
M.  de  la  Reinie  had  officially  prohibited  the  distribution  of  the 
Contes^  as  a  sapient  man,  he  privately  invited  the  author  to  lunch. 


BOOK  II:  THE  SEVENTEENTH  CENTUEY 
When  the  prohibition  seemed  to  have  been  forgotten,  the  fourth 
book  was  issued  (1685).  The  poet  never  suspected  that  his  elegant 
and  amusing  verses  could  give  offense.  When  he  lay  on  his  death- 
bed the  shameful  character  of  the  book  was  mentioned  to  him. 
Whereupon  he  asked  in  all  naive  wonder:  "Are  they  then  really 
so  bad?"  He  enjoined  his  friends  to  atone  for  his  sins  in  this  manner. 
One  hundred  copies  of  his  tales  should  be  sold  and  the  proceeds 
given  to  the  poor.  In  the  tale,  The  Geese,  he  explains  with  con- 
siderable persuasiveness  that  his  efforts  couldn't  possibly  do  harm; 
that  all  the  furore  aroused  by  his  merry  jokes  was  so  much  ado 
about  nothing  and  that  hence  it  were  best  to  let  his  work  go  un- 
molested. 

La  Fontaine's  tales  are  better  than  their  reputation,  which  doesn't 
say  much  because  they  enjoy  a  vicious  reputation.  Why?  They 
are  no  better  and  no  worse  than  the  other  gallant  tales  of  Piron, 
Grecourt,  Gresset  which  that  century  and  the  following  one  were 
very  fond  of.  If  La  Fontaine  was  the  first  to  achieve  excellence  in 
this  craft,  it  certainly  is  not  to  be  taken  as  a  proof  of  his  immorality, 
but  rather  of  the  playful  dallying  taste  of  his  age  and  the  mood  of 
the  people  whose  child  he  was.  These  tales  are  immoral  if  we  ac- 
cept the  moral  code  of  prudes.  It  is  platitudinous  that  every  age 
has  its  own  moral  code.  La  Fontaine  is  an  admirable  chatter-box, 
giving  the  impression  that  he  is  having  a  pleasant  chat  with  the 
reader.  Moreover,  often  he  deliberately  digresses  to  present  some 
good-humored  moral  reflections,  which  justify  him  to  the  reader 
all  the  more.  None  of  his  countrymen  ever  again  achieved  such  a 
graceful  tone,  such  a  flexible  form  as  La  Fontaine's,  who  was  the 
crowning  glory  of  the  erotic  literature  of  seventeenth-century 
France,  and  the  most  truthful  historian  of  the  morals  of  that  period. 


BOOK  III 
THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 


CHAPTER  VI 

THE  GOLDEN  AGE  OF  LOVE 


IN  THE  cultural  history  of  the  Occident  there  have  been  two 
great  periods  of  erotic  literature — the  period  of  imperial  Rome 
and  the  rococo.  To  be  sure,  Greece  and  the  Renaissance  contrib- 
uted considerably,  but  there  is  little  extant  of  the  former  and  the 
achievements  of  the  latter  are  far  surpassed  in  magnitude  and  quali- 
ty by  the  two  first  mentioned.  But  the  first  two  are  themselves  very 
different.  Rome  may  be  considered  cynical,  raw,  crude,  coarse, 
extremely  frivolous.  Yet  it  cannot  be  accused  of  producing  witless 
things  or  aiming  merely  to  arouse  sensuality,  although  there  were 
a  number  of  such  works  according  to  some  of  the  writers  preserved 
to  us. 

Utterly  different  was  France  of  the  last  half  of  the  seventeenth 
century.  Louis  xiv  with  his  basic  tenet  of  Vetat  c'est  moi,  and  his 
court  set  the  tone.  There  was  now  no  room  for  free  participation  in 
politics,  for  independent  activity  in  public  life.  Everything  was 
decreed  from  above,  so  interest  in  politics  declined.  The  personal 
element  pressed  to  the  front.  One  lived  for  sensation  only  and 
gave  in  to  every  excess  provided  it  promised  some  pleasure.  One 
lived  for  pleasure,  took  unlimited  joy  in  the  commonest  of  plea- 
sures, that  is,  the  sexual;  and  one  ordered  one's  whole  life  to  achieve 
a  maximum  of  it.  Later,  while  the  ageing  king  was  under  the  spell 
of  the  pious  Mme.  de  Maintenon  all  this  joy  had  to  be  taken  in 
secret.  Etiquette  was  the  supreme  law  and  style  engendered  the 

93 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
changed  mood.  Coat  tails  were  made  stiff  with  wire  sieves  in  order 
to  make  them  respectable  and  quite  unapproachable;  collars,  cra- 
vats, and  gloves  were  strengthened;  the  mighty  and  uncomfortable 
Allonge  wig  forced  one  to  keep  a  gravitational  posture. 

When  the  Regent  came  to  power  all  was  changed  at  once.  Grace 
supplanted  honor  and  everything  was  cut  out  for  ease.  Grandeur 
in  clothes  and  in  externals  had  already  played  their  roles;  the  pe- 
rukes wandered  into  the  old  lumber  room;  now  the  hair  was  worn 
powdered  and  loosely  dressed  in  order  not  to  hinder  fast  movement. 
Dwellings  became  less  formal  and  more  seductive.  No  more  high 
cold  rooms  of  state,  no  more  grand  ostentatious  chambers  opened 
only  on  grand  occasions.  Daily  life  was  now  enacted  in  pretty  dis- 
creet boudoirs,  in  small  salons  warmly  cozy  and  dimly  lit  with  a 
soft  perfumed  light  seeping  through  shades  of  colored  silk.  Volup- 
tuous paintings  beckoned  from  the  walls  where  blue  and  white 
predominated;  and  gold-framed,  crystal  mirrors  reflected  pictures 
of  ardent  pleasures;  to  these  the  swelling  sofa  with  easily  displace- 
able  cushions  and  the  soft  yielding  fauteuil  with  its  soft  pillows 
clamorously  invited.  Orgiastic  perfumes  which  sweetened  every 
healthy  and  natural  odor  hung  in  the  rooms  and  were  good  pan- 
ders for  amorous  pleasures,  served  with  multitudinous  refinements. 
This  joy  was  more  pleasurable  since  virtue,  marriage  and  fidelity 
were  but  poorly  marketable  wares. 

Virtue  was  regarded  as  an  empty  nought.  The  virtue  of  most 
creatures  seemed  only  the  creation  of  masculine  virtue,  and  it  was 
difficult  to  guard  a  treasure  to  which  all  men  had  the  key.  Marriage 
was  regarded  as  a  free  hunting  ground  in  which  anyone  could 
poach  to  his  utmost  satisfaction.  Mutual  love  and  fidelity — how 
ridiculously  was  it  considered,  how  insipid,  how  commonplace! 
The  man  found  all  possible  joys  of  marriage  with  the  lovely  girls 
of  the  ballet  and  the  opera;  and  the  woman  could  have  the  familiar 

94 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUKY 
family  friend.  Marriage  was  the  charter  for  erotic  needs,  and  in 
this  connection  Mirabeau's  confirmation  is  interesting.  In  his  letters 
to  Sophie  he  speaks  of  his  relations  to  the  daughter  of  Mme.  Vence 
who  one  day  thus  addressed  him.  "Milord,  after  she  is  married  you 
may  do  it  as  you  both  please,  but  pray,  permit  her  to  become  mar- 
ried first." 

It  need  not  even  be  sensual  lust  that  spurs  one  to  infidelity,  it 
may  be  just  curiosity.  Certainly  curiosity  played  an  important  role 
in  predisposing  women  to  infidelity  but  the  desire  for  change  was 
also  a  motive  for  inconstancy.  The  following  judgment  of  a  con- 
temporary writer  does  not  by  any  means  correspond  with  the  facts. 
"The  times  are  not  become  better,  they  can't  be  any  different,  but 
some  change  may  be  discerned  even  if  it  springs  out  of  tedium  and 
disgust  with  shamelessness.  There  will  be  a  return  to  virtue  to  a 
certain  degree  because  it  affords  pleasure.  At  present  nothing  is  as 
much  decried  as  marital  fidelity  but  the  prejudice  is  too  strong  and 
cannot  last  forever."  There  was  no  need  of  curbing  one's  desires, 
or  one's  lewdness,  for  the  Regent  set  the  example  for  all  of  France. 
After  his  accession  to  the  throne  he  continued  the  same  dissolute 
life  he  had  lived  before.  Towards  evening  he  would  lock  himself 
in  the  Temple,  the  former  dwelling  of  the  lords  of  the  Temple 
and  now  the  residence  of  the  Princes  Vendome,  with  his  mistresses, 
his  singers  and  dancers,  and  together  with  ten  or  twelve  associates 
would  hold  wild  orgies,  heavily  punctuated  with  obscenity  and 
blasphemy. 

The  corrupting  life  of  the  court  became  worse  than  ever  when 
the  king  of  all  rakes,  Louis  xv  came  to  the  throne.  The  rule  by 
mistresses  had  already  become  the  subject  of  satires  and  literary 
criticism  during  the  reign  of  Louis  xiv  but  the  "solar"  king  didn't 
exactly  appreciate  the  humor  of  these  sallies.  Thus,  he  banished 
one  day  the  Italian  comedy-players  who  had  been  at  the  court 

95 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
since  1661.  Saint-Simon  makes  the  following  remark  anent  this 
affair.  "So  long  as  these  players  did  no  more  than  discharge  their 
filth  and  their  irreligious  blasphemies  they  were  greeted  with 
laughter.  But  one  day  they  got  the  idea  of  producing  a  piece  by  the 
name  of  La  fausse  prude  which  was  unmistakably  aimed  at  Mme. 
de  Maintenon.  Everyone  flocked  to  see  it,  but  after  three  or  four 
performances  the  theatre  had  to  close  and  within  a  month  the 
actors  had  to  leave  the  kingdom. 

Louis  XV,  on  the  other  hand,  left  all  shame  behind.  The  large 
number  of  his  avowed  mistresses  did  not  sufRce  to  quench  his 
tremendous  lust,  whereupon  at  the  urging  of  the  Pompadour  and 
the  Abbe  d'Aigre  he  caused  a  private  brothel  to  be  established  for 
his  own  usufruct  in  the  notorious  Pare  an  cerf.  At  the  head  of  this 
stood  the  Pompadour  who  would  have  to  supply  fresh  goods  con- 
tinually, if  she  intended  to  keep  her  place  at  the  rudder. 

When  the  ex-brothel-inmate  Dubarry  was  advanced  to  Pomp- 
adour's place  as  royal  court  strumpet,  many  vitriolic  pamphlets  were 
directed  against  her  because  she  carried  over  her  brothel  manners 
to  her  new  post,  and  remained  open  to  every  flattering  court- 
ier however  inferior — provided  he  was  potent  in  love's  lists. 

But  these  active,  private  orgies  didn't  satisfy  the  glowing  senses 
of  the  royal  scapegrace.  So  he  had  to  feed  his  lust  anew.  Thus,  he 
chose  to  pander  to  his  libido  by  becoming  a  sort  of  vicarious  voyeur 
in  the  following  fashion.  He  now  insisted  that  the  Paris  police  in- 
form him  at  regular  intervals  and  in  all  piquant  detail  all  obscene 
occurrences,  and  all  scandals  and  sex  crimes.  Of  these,  there  were 
plenty. 

At  this  time  Rousseau's  influence  began  to  make  itself  felt.  If 
nature  is  good,  then  pleasure  that  does  not  offend  her,  is  both  per- 
mitted and  justified.  The  feelings  of  shame  and  religious  sensibility 
are  merely  the  result  of  societal  influence.  Better  give  men  unlimited 

96 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
sex  freedom.  But  this  cannot  be  accomplished  by  one  alone;  it  re- 
quires a  complement  in  others.  Away  then  with  modest  yearnings, 
with  coy  wooing  for  a  favor  which  if  granted,  one  must  conceal 
as  something  prohibited.  Ridiculous  sham!  If  love  is  something 
natural,  one  should  give  oneself  naturally! 

But  the  physical  receives  a  value  only  when  the  desired  pleasure 
bathed  in  beauty  hightens  the  pleasure.  Because  the  sexual  domain 
has  always  been  ruled  by  women,  so  women  give  the  tone  to  love 
when  fashion  makes  sexual  pleasure  the  crowning  joy.  Never  be- 
fore or  since  has  woman  had  such  a  dominant  place  as  in  the  rococo 
period.  Despite  the  fact  that  she  lacked  all  legal  rights,  she  occupied 
this  exalted  position  due  to  a  coincidence  of  the  factors  mentioned: 
a  strict  but  moribund  despotism,  an  educated  but  disintegrated  so- 
ciety, sharp  class  differences  and  rising  democratic  levelling,  politi- 
cal weakness  conjoined  with  mental  alertness.  It  was  the  period  of 
tense  lull  before  the  tornado;  those  with  weak  nerves  had  to  play 
at  all  costs  in  order  to  forget.  Now  in  matters  of  pleasure  woman 
knows  no  middle  way.  Once  she  has  put  away  shame,  she  far  sur- 
passes man  in  shamelessness.  Whatever  she  desires,  she  grasps  firm- 
ly; even  if  the  interest  isn't  deep,  it  holds  her  spellbound.  Because 
her  whole  thinking  and  doing  is  concerned  with  the  erotic,  she  will 
reveal  herself  without  any  concealment  whenever  man's  influence 
is  but  slight.  This  influence  man  had  shuffled  off.  Man  was  nothing 
more  than  a  lap  dog  to  play  with,  to  heighten  joy  and  arouse  ecstatic 
feelings.  In  this  loosening  of  morals  man  bore  the  greatest  respon- 
sibility by  permitting  himself  to  be  harnessed  to  the  triumphal 
chariot  of  the  loved  one.  Inactivity  led  to  effeminacy. 

This  shallowness  and  effeminacy  was  stamped  on  science  too, 
and  especially  on  philosophy.  The  crass  materialism  of  a  Holbach, 
Helvetius,  La  Mettrie  and  others,  led  directly  to  the  hunt  for  plea- 
sure. If  life  is  only  a  short  span  between  birth  and  death,  if  there 

97 


/ 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FKANCE 
is  nothing  to  hope  for  or  fear  after  death,  then  all  feeling,  thought 
and  action  are  to  be  concentrated  on  this  life.  Ideals  which  one 
could  grasp  at  for  support  no  longer  existed  for  this  sceptical  group. 
It  was  folly  to  suppress  one's  impulses,  since  one  could  not  hope 
for  any  reward  and  could  find  no  satisfaction  in  such  a  struggle 
and  victory.  What  remained  therefore,  except  to  exploit  life  and 
enjoy  it  as  pleasantly  as  possible?  Duty  and  self  mastery  were  for- 
gotten words;  whatever  was  not  tangible  or  pleasurable  was  hurled 
out.  Morals  erect  walls  and  forge  chains;  therefore,  the  walls  must 
fall  and  the  chains  be  broken.  It  followed  that  soon  all  ethical  norms 
were  denied  not  out  of  any  deep  conviction  but  because  they  were 
felt  to  be  uncomfortable.  One  further  step,  and  marital  infidelity  is 
regarded  merely  as  the  activity  of  enlightened  spirits  and  the  nat- 
ural satisfaction  of  corporeal  hungers. 

However,  as  artists  of  pleasure  it  will  not  do  to  forget  that  the  bare 
material  delight  without  intensification  of  joy,  without  the  ecstatic 
embroideries  of  the  spirit  will  finally  bring  ennui  instead  of  perfect 
satisfaction.  It  was  just  this  to-do,  the  costly  preparations,  the  mea- 
suring of  powers,  that  conferred  a  value  upon  the  desired  goal.  For 
men  and  women  alike  the  joy  in  the  smart  play  of  "wit"  was  par- 
amount. Care  was  taken  not  to  give  one's  self  completely  at  once  for 
the  acme  of  refined  pleasure  required  an  alert,  if  brief,  contest  be- 
tween the  sexes.  What  was  desired  was  to  bind  the  other,  couple 
him  (or  her) ,  to  strip  the  character  of  the  other  completely,  all  the 
while  remaining  oneself  aloof.  Coolness  of  heart  is  the  indispensable 
element  in  these  curious  tournaments  of  sentiments.  Every  pleasure 
is  the  result  of  a  fine  education,  resting  on  the  mobility  of  the  spirit 
which  acquired  its  routine  and  perfection  in  the  salon.  All  life  had 
the  character  of  the  demi-mondaine,  why  not  amusement.^ 

It  is  so  easy  and  pleasant  to  become  accustomed  to  the  shocks  of 
a  gallant  conversation.  See  the  laughter  on  their  lips  as  the  company  . 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
listens  to  the  naughty  stories,  the  erotic  jokes,  the  intimate  details 
of  the  chrofiiqiie  scandaleuse.  The  most  scabrous  details  won't  elicit 
the  start  of  dismay  or  the  blush  of  surprise;  but  the  downright  and 
forthright  recital  of  known  and  countenanced  facts  will  bring  the 
displeasure  of  the  company  down  on  the  head  of  the  uncouth  nar- 
rator. Occasionally  in  a  small  company  one  would  remove  all  re- 
straint and  completely  indulge  the  desire  for  obscene  words;  and  in 
this  pastime  women  were  in  no  wise  outdone  by  the  roues.  Thus, 
it  is  narrated  of  the  gorgeous  lady  de  Sainte-Julien  that  when  she 
was  at  table  with  gallant  Abbes,  she  just  loved  to  say  the  dirtiest 
words;  and  so  astonishing  would  the  words  sound  coming  from  her 
beautiful  mouth  that  she  turned  the  heads  of  all  the  men  by  this 
unrestraint  of  speech. 

In  the  salon  of  Fanney  de  Beauharnais  the  receptions  lasted  from 
eight  in  the  evening  to  six  the  following  morning.  Her  chief  ad- 
mirers were  three  realistic  poets:  Dorat,  Mercier  and  Cubieres,  who 
heaped  abuse  at  the  classics  and  earned  the  title  of  the  truimvirat 
du  mauvais  gout.  In  her  salon  Cazotte  and  Restif  read  their  auda- 
cious works.  When  the  actress  Quinault  retired  from  the  theatre  in 
1742,  she  instituted  a  weekly  meeting  at  her  home  of  choice  spirits 
such  as  Duclos,  Abbe  Voisenon,  Count  Gaylos,  Crebillon,  Mari- 
vaux,  Voltaire  and  Piron.  In  this  Societe  du  Bont-du-banc,  as  it  was 
known,  things  were  very  lively.  Tribute  was  freely  paid  to  the 
Muses  and  every  free  joke  was  applauded,  every  piquant  anecdote 
laughed  at  if  only  it  was  clever. 

If  the  women  as  rulers  of  the  salon  lowered  the  level  and  sanc- 
tioned complete  revelation  how  much  more  would  this  undressing 
process  take  place  in  the  realm  of  letters.  Everybody  wrote  gladly, 
wrote  well,  jested  wittily  and  gossiped  blithely;  there  was  no  trace 
of  faultfinding  anywhere  and  one  was  greedy  for  success  only  in 
the  art  of  pleasing.  At  the  early  age  of  fifteen  or  sixteen  the  young 

99 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
lady  would  leave  the  cloister,  the  general  educational  institution 
for  the  highborn,  and  inaugurate  her  literary  career  in  the  follow- 
ing fashion:  Mama  would  present  daughter  with  a  darling  little 
secretary,  and  a  perfectly  cunning  little  key.  Every  night  when 
dear  mama  would  shut  her  eyes  in  slumber,  daughter  whose  eyes 
had  already  been  opened,  would  slink  to  her  little  secretary  and 
pour  out  her  little  soul  in  languishing  letters  which  dallied  with 
eroticism  or  celebrated  joys  already  tasted.  But  alas!  one  grows  old- 
er. The  mirror  shows  it  every  day;  and  what  was  formerly  genuine 
emotion  is  now  pushed  into  the  background,  and  weighed  down 
under  a  mass  of  reflections,  genuine  or  more  probably  factitious. 
The  once  genuine  feeling  has  become  literary  and  the  epistolatrix 
is  concerned  only  with  her  reflections  and  the  reception  of  her  ef- 
forts. The  whole  task  is  undertaken  because  it  is  pleasurable  in  the 
doing,  and  because  it  confers  pleasure  later  when  one  sees  one's 
influence  upon  others.  Thus  one  escapes  ennui. 

It  could  not  be  otherwise  than  that  women  should  set  the  pace 
here  too.  At  the  age  of  eighteen,  Mme.  de  Stael,  then  Miss  Necker, 
wrote  highly  erotic  epistles.  Other  ladies  of  the  court  described 
their  first  loves,  extra-marital  loves,  etc.  in  obscene  letters.  Nor 
must  it  be  supposed  that  gentlemen  did  any  violence  to  their  feel- 
ings and  suppressed  all  traces  of  them  when  they  approached 
letter  writing.  Everyone  knows  the  erotic  letters  of  Mirabeau  to 
his  two  sweethearts.  Because  of  their  obscenity  the  letters  of  Mon- 
tesquieu were  kept  under  lock.  Saint-Simon  tells  of  a  love  relation- 
ship between  a  very  high  cleric,  Dom  Gervaise,  and  a  nun,  and  the 
resulting  correspondence.  'The  whole  letter  was  a  mass  of  vulgar 
expressions  mixed  with  the  filthiest  words  of  tenderness  and  jests 
of  a  shockingly  dissolute  monk;  her  delights,  sorrows,  and  sexual 
yearnings  are  all  depicted  with  utter  frankness  and  license." 

That  this  mode  of  panurgic  correspondence  was  not  confined  to 

100 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
great  writers  of  sentiment  or  significant  personalities  but  was  a  very- 
widespread  practise,  the  collections  of  Beardsley,  Paul  Dublin  and 
Grand  Carteret  will  attest.  Some  of  these  letters  are  very  attrac- 
tively set  up  indeed.  Naked  cupids,  hearts  and  arrows  serve  as 
letter  heads;  letter  papers  are  used  which  open  and  close  like  shut- 
ters. When  the  pretty  one  opened  the  shutter  she  would  see  the 
cupids  drawing  a  classic  phallus  out  of  a  drum,  or  two  grenadiers 
presenting  arms. 

Along  with  such  letters  stood  the  Memoires  which  were  nothing 
more  than  clever  gossip  and  scandal.  Since  they  were  responsible 
for  many  uncomfortable  revelations  their  appearance  was  not 
greeted  with  unmixed  pleasure  and  they  were  criticized  rather 
unfavorably.  On  this  point  the  remarks  of  Count  Tilly,  one  of 
Marie  Antoinette's  circle,  are  interesting:  "What  is  most  to  be  cen- 
sured in  these  people  is  not  so  much  the  indecency  of  their  rep- 
resentations (I  do  not  speak  of  the  intentionally  coarse  depictions 
of  the  orgasm)  as  their  foolish  intention  or  desire  to  delude  and 
persuade  that  the  private  vice  of  the  great  world  is  the  public  mor- 
ality of  that  whole  world.  That  indecent  conversation  conducted 
in  the  boudoir  is  also  conducted  in  the  business  office;  that  young 
ladies  of  the  world  are  puppies  and  snot-noses  who  employ  the 
most  bizarre  and  improper  jargon  for  their  language;  that  finally  the 
school  of  the  refined  court  etiquette  in  France  is  a  sort  of  quack- 
stall  where  one  hears  nothing  but  candied  foulness,  broad  jokes  and 
elegant  nonsense.  These  are  the  figures  drawn  by  those  gentry  when 
they  desire  to  depict  the  morals  of  the  great  world.  Such  depictions, 
in  which  the  most  barbarous  absence  of  taste  is  shown,  deserve 
much  more  censure  than  isolated  sketches  of  single  immoralities 
which  are  no  longer  novel  or  rare  in  a  century  accustomed  to  hear 
such  things  without  shame  or  blush." 

In  order  properly  to  evaluate  the  worth  of  the  literary  produc- 

101 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FEANCE 
tions  of  that  period,  we  must  keep  in  mind  how  the  society  then 
was  organized.  The  king  was  first  and  last! — the  sun  to  which  the 
planets  owed  their  light.  His  opinion  was  decisive  for  society,  at 
least  for  the  nobility  grouped  around  his  throne.  At  that  time  Paris 
was  much  smaller  than  it  is  today.  Trains,  autos,  and  other  means 
of  locomotion  were  not  yet  in  existence,  and  people  were  con- 
demned to  greater  fixity  and  immobility.  Encounters  were  not  for 
a  little  while  only.  Only  at  Paris  and  Versailles  did  the  royal  sun 
shine.  Indeed,  both  the  monarch  and  the  powerful  lords  profited 
from  the  royal  graciousness,  for  Louis  found  no  joy  in  solitary  rule. 
He  needed  praise,  admiration,  incense — all  of  which  he  could  ob- 
tain from  a  group  whose  gratitude  he  won  through  his  great 
generosities.  His  own  person  had  very  little  that  was  lovable.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  pleasure-hungry  nobility  and  clergy  could  not 
do  without  the  king's  open  hand.  For  after  one  had  grown  ac- 
customed to  the  charms  of  Paris  and  Versailles  it  was  impossible 
to  think  of  living  without  them.  The  income  of  the  neglected  estate 
at  home  was  scarcely  sufficient  for  this  extravagant  life  within  the 
confines  of  the  royal  residence.  Therefore  the  king  who  desired 
to  assemble  a  rich  and  luxurious  court  about  himself  and  to  raise 
the  nobility  and  the  clergy  above  the  wealthy  bourgeois  class,  as- 
sumed the  responsibility  of  supporting  an  aristocratic  class  in  ac- 
cordance with  its  rank.  For  this  pomp  and  splendor  tremendous 
funds  were  necessary.  Since  there  were  not  enough  positions  in 
the  royal  establishment  to  fill  with  the  horde  of  noble  parasites,  and 
since  the  illusion  had  to  be  maintained  that  the  sinecures  and  pen- 
sions were  granted  for  some  real  service,  new  posts  were  created 
upon  paper  with  impossible  names  and  functions.  Those  interested 
in  this  aspect  of  the  subject  would  do  well  to  read  Taine's  La  France 
contemporaine. 
Two  vicious  results  from  this  profitable  dependence  upon  the 

102 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
king  were:  (i)  extravagance,  with  all  its  evil  consequences  and  (2) 
the  delight  in  gossip,  which  derived  from  the  joy  of  scandal  and 
nourished  it.  The  elite,  following  the  example  of  their  ruler,  were 
a  weak  group  not  made  for  serious  work.  But  the  dreadful  idleness 
would  have  to  be  filled  with  something,  and  in  this  they  were 
wondrously  expert.  Funds  were  never  lacking,  so  no  wish  need  go 
unfulfilled;  and  the  more  easily  they  were  gratified,  the  more  they 
were  magnified.  There  was  no  longer  any  regard  for  the  natural, 
so  one  sought  the  unnatural,  the  vicious;  and  great  perfections  were 
achieved  in  this  search.  Whoever  did  not  lend  himself  willingly  to 
abuse  and  did  not  permit  himself  to  be  drawn  into  the  whirlpool  of 
unlimited  pleasure,  was  impelled  to  sacrifice  his  strongest  prin- 
ciples by  the  sound  and  shimmer  of  gold. 

What  was  not  purchasable?  Love  of  parents,  children  and  mate — 
all  fell  under  the  sway  of  the  glittering  metal.  Since  virtue  was 
listed  so  low  on  the  exchange,  the  favor  of  the  fair  one  could  be 
won  by  him  who  had  the  most  wealth,  and  who  was,  consequently, 
able  to  drive  his  rival  from  the  contest.  Expenditures  and  needs 
should  be  balanced,  but  alas!  human  demands  are  often  in  excess; 
hence  there  results  a  mad  rush  for  gold,  a  wild  pursuit  of  the  favor 
of  the  king  from  whose  open  hand  all  gifts  come.  It  is,  after  all,  the 
king  who  will  decide  whether  this  or  that  noble  parasite's  desire 
shall  be  gratified. 

The  less  favored  one  must  think  of  other  means  to  reach  his  ends. 
Accordingly,  he  launches  hidden  attacks,  sometimes  more  effica- 
cious than  those  of  the  rich  and  powerful.  The  most  popular  weapon 
is  the  libel,  gossip,  or  the  pamphlet.  Always  the  gossip  must  be 
brought  into  connection  with  the  person  of  the  king  if  the  latter, 
the  dispenser  of  gifts,  good  and  evil  alike,  is  to  be  enlisted  against 
the  libeled  one.  That  is  why  this  sort  of  gossip  is  common,  raw, 
cunning,  poisonous,  and  untrue;  for  usually  no  basis  exists  for  the 

103 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FRANCE 
accusation.  But  what  of  it?  The  goal  has  been  reached.  The  libeled 
one  has  lost,  the  grace  of  the  king  has  been  gained,  and  the  scandal- 
monger has  ingratiated  himself  into  royal  favor.  Even  when  there 
is  no  question  of  displacing  a  rival,  one  still  scores  a  point  with  his 
royal  majesty,  who  swallowed  the  Parisian  police  reports  with 
such  lusty  avidity  and  who  knew  well  how  to  price  such  gossip 
especially  if  it  were  filthy  enough. 

s  This  was  the  public,  less  attractive  side  of  gossip.  The  other 
which  profaned  private  secrets  was  less  reprehensible.  One  had  so 
much  time — and  these  petty  fellows  had  very  little  busmess  to 
attend  to.  One  had  enough  means  to  gratify  all  one's  desires  and 
enough  time  to  gossip  about  one's  neighbor's  affairs.  Each  knew 
the  affairs  of  the  other,  and  since  life  was  regarded  from  the  joy- 
ous side,  judgment  was  not  very  strict.  Why  pretend  to  a  mor- 
ality which  has  no  validity?  One  merely  sought  pleasant  amusement 
and  as  such,  gossip  is  invaluable.  It  was  whispered  that  Count  X 
found  his  wife  in  the  arms  of  the  singer  Y,  that  the  bosom  of  that 
renowned  beauty  was  not  quite  so  youthful  and  fresh  as  a  score  of 
years  ago;  that  the  pretty  Clarice  never  goes  to  bed  at  night  with- 
out having  made  at  least  three  lovers  happy.  Today  the  Marquis  dealt 
a  pair  of  horns  to  the  duke,  tomorrow  the  revenge  has  been  given, 
and  the  other  head  wears  the  horny  emblem.  Or  a  few  days  ago 
a  certain  ladies'  man  got  a  venereal  disease,  and  some  weeks  later 
it  is  whispered  that  the  intimate  friend  of  the  household  bears 
the  same  cross.  This  ominous  coincidence  arouses  laughter  but  no 
shudder;  at  the  most  there  is  a  word  of  sympathy  for  the  hard  luck. 
For  it  was  no  more  than  that  in  the  eyes  of  this  frivolous  company, 
since  tomorrow  some  indiscriminate  sexual  union  may  bring  us 
to  the  same  pass;  so  let's  forestall  the  evil  interpretation  now. 

Not  only  cavaliers  enjoyed  the  favor  of  women,  powerful  ser- 
vants or  stable  attendants  were  also  welcome  at  all  times.  Nerciat 

104 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
tells  us  the  reason:  "Since  the  gentlemen  cavaliers  and  officers,  in 
short  all  who  once  boasted  polite  behavior,  gallant  conduct  and 
honesty,  have  lost  their  civility  and  set  no  more  store  by  elegant 
deportment  which  has  much  of  charm  for  us,  the  servant  who  is 
generally  well  built,  well  dressed  and  proud  of  the  attention  we 
bestow  upon  him,  is  much  more  serviceable  for  our  pleasures. 
Moreover,  he  is  more  trustworthy,  and  less  likely  to  be  hazardous 
to  his  lady  both  before  and  after  the  relationship." 

In  these  memoirs  the  most  intimate  female  charms  are  described 
with  a  lack  of  ceremony  that  is  amazing.  Madame  Tallien  depicts 
for  us  her  bosom  and  her  thighs  with  the  same  fullness  of  detail  as 
she  expends  upon  her  face.  In  the  diary  of  a  contemporary  belle, 
Mme.  Celie-Epomine  Dupont  occurs  the  following  note:  "Which 
of  my  gorgeous  dresses  shall  I  wear?  It's  no  matter,  for  they're 
equally  transparent.  Recently  at  a  soiiper  a  friend  made  a  wager 
that  my  whole  garb  including  rings,  anklets  and  shoes  weighed 
more  than  two  silver  pieces.  I  forthwith  disrobed  and  won  the  bet." 

The  number  of  these  secret  memoirs  is  legion,  so  only  a  few 
characteristic  ones  will  be  mentioned.  The  life  of  that  time  is  most 
faithfully  mirrored  in  the  memoirs  of  the  prince  of  all  adventurers, 
the  likeable  Giacomo  Casanova,  Chevalier  de  Seingalt,  bom  at 
Venice,  1725,  died  in  Bohemia,  1798.  Casanova  is  another  proof 
of  the  contention  that  the  personality  living  in  perpetual  war  with 
the  laws  of  the  normal  citizen  has  much  more  of  interest  than  the 
lives  of  other  men,  who  abide  by  the  conventionalities  of  social  life. 
Today  we  incline  to  call  him  a  rascally  swindler,  but  the  termi- 
nology of  his  time  recognized  no  such  designation.  Crowned  heads 
sought  his  presence,  Frederic  the  Great  sought  to  attract  him  to  his 
court  but  the  arch-restles^  one  could  not  long  remain  in  one  spot 
and  the  strictly  regulated  life  of  the  average  bourgeois  was  an 
abomination  to  him.  His  restlessness  is  responsible  for  the  uncer- 

105 


^ 


THE  EMOTIC  MISTOKY  OF  FKANCE 
tainty,  the  ups  and  downs  of  his  life.  Today  journeying  through 
the  land  in  a  chariot  accompanied  by  two  servants,  his  pockets 
stuffed  with  gold;  tomorrow  once  again  deprived  of  the  most  ele- 
mentary needs,  driven  to  sell  his  watch  for  a  bit  of  bread.  In  order 
to  obtain  the  means  for  his  luxurious  life  he  did  not  hesitate  to 
deceive  the  credulous.  When  he  played  at  cards  or  other  games  of 
chance  he  did  not  hesitate  to  cheat  quite  shamelessly;  to  him  it  was 
merely  to  corriger  la  fortune  and  he  passionately  praised  his  tactics. 
He  was  frequently  brought  into  contact  with  the  stolid  guardians 
of  the  law  who  were  naturally  unable  to  appreciate  his  extra- 
ordinary ability;  he  was  also  compelled  to  make  the  acquaintance  of 
the  leaden  prison  of  Venice  but  here  too  his  audacity  and  astound- 
ing nerve  saved  him. 

However,  when  we  think  of  Casanova  today,  we  do  not  re- 
member the  extraordinary  wealth  of  his  adventures.  He  is  for  us 
the  type  of  all  erotomaniacs.  Indeed,  his  name  would  be  known 
to  merely  a  few  scholars  had  he  not  possessed  so  inflammable  a  heart. 
For  him  love  is  the  sum  of  life;  thus,  when,  after  the  inexorable 
flight  of  time  he  lost  his  power  over  women,  he  became  bitter  and 
resigned  and  withdrew  from  the  world.  He  never  had  one  definite 
ideal  of  beauty;  it  was  woman  whom  he  desired.  In  his  round  of 
love,  red,  blonde  and  brunette  sisters  lend  each  other  a  hand.  Young 
or  middle-aged,  slim  or  plump,  virgin  or  whore — all  alike  tempt 
him.  He  bestows  his  ardent  embraces  upon  dazzling  beauty  no 
less  than  upon  repulsive  ugliness.  With  imperious  candor  he  re- 
ports his  orgies  with  two  and  three,  without  applying  any  moral 
criterion  to  the  situation.  Undismayed,  he  follows  his  natural  incli- 
nations and  never  avoids  the  pleasure  they  hold  in  store  for  him. 
And  despite  the  breathtaking  frankness  of  his  narration  we  do 
not  lose  our  sympathy,  for  Casanova  avoids  all  perversity,  merely 
regarding  woman  as  an  object  of  natural  pleasure  to  be  discarded 

106 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
as  soon  as  hunger  is  appeased.  He  does  not  love  with  his  senses 
alone,  he  gives  all  of  himself  and  his  personality,  desiring  to  be 
loved  for  himself.  He  remains  true  to  each  one  so  long  as  his  rest- 
less heart  has  not  been  caught  in  new  bonds.  In  every  temporary 
sweetheart  he  sees  a  person  of  like  rights  with  himself  and  extends 
the  same  consideration  to  her  desire  for  pleasure  as  his  own.  Hence 
the  joy  he  is  preparing  for  is  greater  than  the  experience.  His  love 
wishes  to  encompass  the  object  of  his  interest  completely,  body 
and  soul. 

Witty  chatter  is  an  indispensible  concomitant  of  physical  sur- 
render; hence  his  great  love  for  bed-talk.  Sometimes  his  desire  is 
doomed  to  disappointment,  and  frequently  enough  the  object  is 
merely  a  vessel  of  impure  lust;  then  he  is  compelled  to  appeal  from 
Venus  to  Mercury.  But  the  gods  have  endowed  their  favorite  with 
healthy  blood  and  soon  he  has  expelled  the  poisons  from  his  body. 
Such  little  wounds  sustained  on  the  battlefield  of  love  are  not  suf- 
ficient to  turn  him  into  a  hater  of  women.  No,  indeed  not.  He  sings 
the  Canticles  of  Woman  who  alone  makes  life  worth  living.  Wo- 
men know  how  to  appreciate  and  reward  his  utter  surrender.  When 
the  delicate  hands  of  one  inclination  loosen,  and  the  restless  one  is 
driven  to  a  new  garden,  to  dust  the  petal  of  a  new  flower,  there  are 
occasionally  tears  which  embitter  the  farewell;  but  no  hatred  ever 
pursues  the  fickle  one.  Sometimes,  when  his  love  has  died,  a  long 
friendship  blooms  in  its  place.  The  actual  process  of  all  his  loves, 
the  conquest  and  the  liberation  from  fetters  found  galling,  Casanova 
relates  in  unadorned  truth  and  pleasurable  pride.  Yet  his  vanity 
doesn't  lead  him  to  leave  everything  in  a  rosy  glow.  He  reports  his 
misfortunes  in  love,  the  blanks  he  has  chosen  in  the  lottery,  with 
the  same  candor  and  admits  that  in  his  case  too.  Master  Iste  has  had 
his  whims,  and  on  occasion  has  brought  him  into  the  most  fatal 
situations.  This  love  of  truth  at  the  cost  of  his  reputation,  is  quite 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FEANCE 
a  sacrifice  to  his  amour  propre.  It  constitutes  the  best  guarantee  of 
the  documentary  value  of  these  writings  deahng  with  the  social 
life  of  his  time.  It  is  this  quality  which  has  raised  Casanova's  docu- 
ment far  above  the  great  number  of  contemporary  memoirs. 

There  is  another  work  which  reflects  the  erotic  morals  of  France 
during  the  eighteenth  century  quite  as  faithfully,  although  it  is  not 
composed  on  so  wide  a  background.  This  is  the  compilation  of  the 
Memoires  secrets  by  the  Royal  Censor,  Matthieu  Frangois  Pidausat 
de  Mairobert.  He  was  born  in  1707  and  committed  suicide  in  his 
bath  in  1779,  when  it  became  known  that  certain  pamphlets  di- 
rected against  France  which  had  appeared  in  the  English  press,  had 
been  composed  by  him.  In  his  compilation  of  anecdotes  not  every 
bit  of  gossip  is  garnered  up  without  criticism.  All  the  little  scandals 
that  had  been  aired  with  gusto  in  the  salon  of  Madame  Doublet  de 
Person  by  the  daily  visitors  like  Madame  de  Tencin,  Du  Deffand, 
Geoffrin,  Lespinasse,  Voisenon,  or  Piron  underwent  a  very  strict 
criticism  as  to  their  truthfulness;  only  after  truth  had  been  con- 
scientiously sifted  from  fiction  were  they  written  down  by  Bachau- 
mont  and  his  successors.  It  would  be  more  correct  to  say  that 
Bachaumont  wrote  only  the  first  form  and  half  of  the  fifth  vol- 
ume between  1 767  and  1 77 1 ;  and  Pidausat  de  Mairobert  took  charge 
from  1 77 1  and  continued  until  his  death  in  1779.  Then  the  author 
of  the  Private  Life  of  Louis  XV  assumed  control  and  together  with 
a  few  others  accumulated  material  until  the  year  1789. 

These  articles  and  memoirs  contain  more  than  mere  gallant  anec- 
dotes. Politics  and  religion  likewise  play  important  parts  therein 
but  the  gallantries  occupy  chief  place.  Particularly  interesting  are 
the  notices  concerning  erotic  writings  and  pamphlets.  Naturally 
these  memoirs  are  not  to  be  regarded  as  trustworthy  historical 
sources,  for  many  of  them  are  obviously  a  result  of  prejudice,  and 
there  is  certainly  no  denying  the  delight  in  piquant  indecencies. 

lOS 


BOOK  Ills  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
By  and  large  however  they  constitute  an  unsurpassable  reflection 
of  contemporary  social  life. 

The  second  work  of  this  class  is  UObservateur  Anglais  (1777- 
78),  reworked  in  Uespion  Anglais  (1779).  This  too  is  probably 
the  product  of  Pidausat's  pen  although  there  is  no  certainty  on  this 
point.  At  least  this  much  is  certain,  that  many  remarks  and  verbatim 
quotations  from  this  work  were  found  scattered  among  his  other 
writings.  The  work  contains  a  collection  of  satirical  and  free  pieces 
and  is  a  most  important  source  document  for  the  study  of  prostitu- 
tion in  eighteenth-century  France.  The  infamous  Mde.  Justine 
and  equally  notorious  Mde.  Gourdan  maintained  the  most  lavish 
brothels  in  France.  They  were  figures  of  national  importance  and 
exercised  great  influence  on  the  moral  conditions  of  their  time. 

There  were  many  supplements  to  the  memoirs  of  Bachaumont 
and  Pidausat.  The  Marquis  d'Argens,  for  example,  served  up  some 
very  saucy  details  concerning  the  amorous  relationships  of  the 
French  kings  combined  with  anecdotes  and  satirical  verses  in  his 
Memoir es  historiques  et  secrets  (1739).  And  there  were  many 
other  scandalous  chronicles.  The  most  infamous  penny-dreadful 
journaHst  of  this  time  was  undoubtedly  Thevenot  de  Morande 
(1748- 1 803)  who  proliferated  a  great  deal  of  smut  and  obscenity. 
He  led  a  rather  active  life.  At  the  wish  of  his  own  family  he  was 
held  in  the  Bastille  for  a  while,  and  upon  his  release  journeyed  to 
England.  Here  he  published  the  Le  philosophe  cyniqiie  and  the 
Melanges  Confus  (177 1 ),  both  of  which  caused  considerable  scandal 
and  brought  the  author  a  considerable  profit.  Since  his  business 
was  flourishing,  he  devoted  himself  to  the  accumulation  of  further 
scandals  and  anecdotes  of  a  similar  type. 

He  made  a  sally  against  Du  Barry  with  a  satiric  blast:  Vie  (Vune 
courtesane  du  dix-huitihne  siecle  (1776),  and  at  her  instigation  he 
was  pursued  by  the  London  police.  As  early  as  1774  she  had  sent 

109 


/ 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FEANCE 
the  police  inspector  Receveur  to  London  to  bring  the  pamphletist 
back  to  France,  but  in  vain.  Persons  of  high  and  low  degree  feared 
his  sharp  tongue  and  pointed  pen.  Hence  it  was  not  considered  at 
all  queer  to  enter  into  negotiations  with  this  dangerous  pamphletist. 
For  a  second  pamphlet  which  had  already  been  printed,  Du  Barry 
paid  the  author  32,000  lires  and  assigned  him  an  annual  pension  of 
4800  lires,  whereupon  the  edition  was  destroyed.  It  was  only  later 
in  1784  that  the  Marquis  de  Pellepart  dared  to  lash  Morande's 
shameless  career  in  his  Diable  dans  un  benitier,  but  he  himself 
brought  out  many  scandalous  stories  about  Dubarry,  Gourdan,  and 
others. 

Thevenot  de  Morande  wrote  another  amusing  work  which  was 
not  quite  in  the  vein  of  his  other  satirical  blasts.  It  is  called  La  Porte- 
feuille  de  Madame  Gourdan  ( 1783).  A  strongly  augmented  edition 
appeared  the  following  year  but  still  the  work  found  far  from 
sufficient  recognition.  The  author  states  that  he  had  come  into 
possession  of  the  letters  which  comprise  the  volume  through  a  visit 
to  Mde.  Gourdan  and  was  now  giving  them  to  the  public.  This 
lady  was  called  by  the  pet  name  of  La  Comtesse  and  was,  as  we 
have  mentioned  above,  one  of  the  most  notorious  brothel-keepers 
of  her  time.  She  practised  her  extremely  lucrative  profession  to- 
gether with  the  equally  notorious  Justine  Paris  from  1759  till  her 
death,  probably  from  poisoning,  in  1783.  This  work  presents  a 
paragraph  in  the  erotic  history  of  France  far  better  than  many 
thick  folios  of  that  time.  Here  are  a  few  specimen  letters  to  be 
found  in  Morande's  work. 

From  Mademoiselle  Savigni, 
Paris,  July  / j,  i'J7<f' 
Dear  Mama, 

The  officer  who  supported  me  has  had  to  return 
to  his  regiment  because  his  furlough  is  over.  I  don't  know  what 
to  do  and  am  turning  to  you  for  help.  You  know  that  I'm  a  good 

110 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 

girl,  afraid  of  nothing,  and  that  everything's  all  right  with  me 
provided  I  am  well  paid  for  it.  I  am  not  of  the  class  that  de- 
mands that  everything  be  done  according  to  rules  of  decency. 
That's  nonsense.  What  do  men  expect  to  find?  A  regular  whore 
is  everywhere  at  her  post  and  has  every  privilege.  I  hope  that 
you  will  praise  my  principles  and  not  forget  your  loving  child. 


From  Mademoiselle  Rancourt,  July,  8,  ijSi. 
Madame: 

At  the  Italian  theatre  yesterday  I  saw  in  your  com- 
pany a  young  pretty  person.  If  you  can  get  her  for  me  for  one 
night  I  shall  pay  you  six  louis  d'or.  Entirely  yours,  R. 


From  Mademoiselle  Sophie, 
Paris,  February  2j,  ijS^. 
Dear  Mama, 

I've  gotten  into  a  hell  of  a  hole  with  your  damn 
Carmelite.  He  has  gotten  me  into  a  terrible  condition.  Never  in 
my  life  have  I  been  so  sick.  A-Iy  physician,  for  whom  I  have 
sent  this  morning,  informs  me  that  I  shall  be  sick  for  at  least  two 
months.  I  hope  that  you  will  help  me  and  not  leave  me  in  this 
condition.  After  all,  I  got  this  wound  while  under  your  stand- 
ards. Please  send  me  by  this  messenger,  two  louis.  You  will 
greatly  oblige.  Yours  gratefully,  S. 


From  Madame  Berbier,  Paris,  April  p,  I'jS^. 
Madame: 

My  daughter  is  not  able  to  comply  with  your  wish 
at  this  time.  Immediately  after  the  ballet  she  had  a  miscarriage. 
As  soon  as  she  will  be  well  again,  however,  she  will  present  her- 
self at  A'ladame's,  and  will  be  ready  for  service. 

I  have  the  honor  to  be  your  very  devoted  servant. 

Mrs.  Berbier. 
ill 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FRANCE 

From  Mademoiselle  Frangois, 
Arpajon,  May  27, 77^5. 
Madame: 

I'm  only  a  simple  country  girl  but  that  I  am  pretty,  no 
one  can  deny.  I  am  an  orphan,  and  not  yet  eighteen  years  old. 
I've  heard  the  servants  at  the  castle  say  that  I  have  a  maiden- 
head which  would  be  bought  dearly  at  Paris  and  that  for  you 
Madame,  I  would  be  worth  much  gold.  Hence,  I  have  obtained 
your  address  from  them,  who  laughed  at  my  request  but  gave  it 
to  me  none  the  less.  If  you  want  me,  you  have  merely  to  sum- 
mon me  and  I  shall  come  with  my  maidenhead.  I  don't  know 
yet  what  it  is,  but  they  say  that  you  will  take  care  of  every- 
thing. I  remain  very  respectfuly, 

Your  devoted  servant. 


From  M.  T.,  Paris,  2^rd  June  I'jj^. 
Madame: 

My  daughter  is  turning  fourteen.  If  you  wish  we  can 
talk  about  first  fruits.  It  will  not  be  at  all  difficult  to  win  the 
youngster.  With  a  few  bonbons  and  a  little  courtesy  one  can  do 
with  her  what  one  wills.  One  only  needs  certain  preparations. 
It  will  be  necessary  that  you  take  her  to  you  as  chambermaid. 
Please  specify  the  time  and  I  will  come  with  my  daughter  and 
we  shall  settle  everything.  I  have  the  honor  to  remain  in  all 
respect,  your  very  devoted. 

F. 


From  Monsieur  de  B.,  May  i,  i'j'j6. 
Madame: 

I  possess  a  collection  of  the  positions  of  Aretino  in 
forty  pictures.  Since  I  am  going  to  Rome  I  should  like  to  dis- 
pose of  them.  It  seems  to  me  that  as  a  room  decoration  nothing 
would  be  more  suitable  for  you.  They  cost  five  thousand  francs. 
Only  a  year  ago  I  was  unwilling  to  part  with  them  to  (Duke 

de )  for  a  hundred  louis.  If  you  wish  to  inspect  them  I  shall 

remain  at  home  all  day  tomorrow. 

112 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 

From  Mr.  D.  (Book  Agent),  June  22,  ijSo. 
Madame: 

I  have  just  received  from  Holland  editions  de  luxe  of 
the  Virgin,  Portier  des  Chartreux,  Margo,  Positions  of  Aretino, 
Ode  to  Friapus,  Futromeni,  Discourse  of  Two  Nuns,  for  the 
instruction  of  young  dames  who  want  to  enter  into  society.  If 
any  of  these  appeal  to  you,  madame,  please  inform  me  at  what 
time  to  bring  them. 

This  sheaf  of  letters  from  the  portfolios  of  the  notorious  and 
powerful  panderess  gives  us  some  insight  into  the  nefarious  life 
which  she  and  countless  others  of  her  ilk  led,  and  the  infinite  mis- 
chief and  corruption  they  engendered. 


^$e^i^$«^^«^9^«^9(^$^e^e^^«e^e^e^«^ 


CHAPTER  Vn 

ANTI-ROYAL  AND  ANTI-CHURCH 
LITERATURE 


\iNYBODY  might  become  the  target  of  the  storm  of  satire  which 
y\  has  been  just  mentioned,  but  it  is  obvious  that  those  in  high 
places  would  be  most  exposed  to  it,  and  could  find  least  refuge  from 
the  downpour.  Perverse  dissoluteness  has  always  found  a  fierce  plea- 
sure in  tearing  the  veil  from  the  most  intimate  matters  of  one's  self 
or  the  other  fellow's.  It  is  a  debauched  delight  to  display  the  naked- 
ness of  another  to  a  band  of  spectators,  and  it  is  accounted  an  even 
more  voluptuous  delight  to  display  one's  own.  Hence  there  can  be 
nothing  more  piquant  than  the  publication  of  these  detailed  enu- 
merations. Is  there  any  wonder,  therefore,  at  the  colossal  proportions 
this  shamelessness  assumed  in  eighteenth-century  France  when  the 
highest  classes  engaged  in  the  composition  of  such  scandalous 
works? 

The  Duke  of  Richelieu,  one  of  the  greatest  heartbreakers  of  all 
time,  set  down  the  reminiscences  of  his  youth  at  the  court  of  the 
Regent.  He  mentions  in  his  memoirs  that  a  book  had  been  com- 
posed by  Madame  de  Tencin,  describing  the  most  obscene  practises 
of  all  the  rakes  before  the  eighteenth  century,  which  was  destined 
for  the  personal  use  of  the  Regent.  These  regal  voluptuaries  sowed 
wind  and  reaped  the  whirlwind.  Louis  xv,  one  of  the  greatest  of 
libertines,  with  his  corps  of  mistresses  certainly  gave  ample  pro- 
vocation to  the  most  vitriolic  satire.  One  of  these  satires,  with  its 
witty  allusion  to  the  frigidity  of  the  Pompadour,  cost  the  royal 

114 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
minister,  Maurepas,  his  post.  During  his  banishment  he  assembled 
all  possible  erotic  works  and  bound  them  in  red  morocco  adorned 
with  his  coat-of-arms. 

The  King  and  his  mistresses  were  the  targets  of  the  most  obscene 
pamphlets.  Pompadour  was  not  so  sensitive  to  these  malicious  squibs. 
In  her  letters  she  speaks  of  a  pamphleteer  who  had  composed  some 
vulgar  verses  at  her  expense  but  had  been  compelled  to  flee  to  Lon- 
don in  order  to  escape  her  wrath.  "He  can  always  return,"  she  con- 
tinues. "Though  I  am  a  woman  I  can  forgive  insult,  and  what's  more 
I  can  reward  my  friends  and  compel  them,  if  not  to  love  me,  at 
least  to  have  a  measure  of  respect  for  me".  These  letters  are  most 
probably  forged.  Dubarry  was  not  able  to  exercise  such  magna- 
nimity and  we  have  seen  above  that  she  took  very  stern  measures 
against  Thevenot  de  Morande.  Her  published  letters  too  must  be 
regarded  as  historical  sources,  but  are  nevertheless  of  some  interest 
for  the  contemporary  moral  situation. 

With  the  ascent  of  Louis  xvi  the  ball  of  satire  had  gained  such 
momentum  that  there  was  no  stopping  the  stream  of  anti-royalist 
literature  which  was  directed  not  so  much  against  him,  as  against 
Marie  Antoinette.  As  a  foreigner  she  proved  an  excellent  object 
for  national  hatred,  and  in  addition  she  provoked  public  opinion 
in  many  ways.  Her  ostentatious  aversion  to  "crapule";  her  secret 
nocturnal  outings  to  disreputable  inns  where  firmly  believing  that 
she  was  unsuspected,  she  carried  on  her  undisguised  affair  with  the 
King's  brother,  the  Count  d'Artois,  a  notorious  wastrel;  and  the 
visits  to  her  private  theatre  where  frequently  the  performances 
were  indecent.  These  and  similar  matters  were  not  calculated  to 
arouse  the  sympathy  of  the  people. 

In  his  memoirs.  Count  Tilly  seeks  to  defend  her,  "Her  appearance 
on  the  terraces  at  Versailles  where  the  beautiful  evenings  and  en- 
chanting music  called  forth  the  groups  of  strollers,  was  a  new  pre- 

115 


THE  EEOTIC  MISTOEY  OF  FMANCE 
text  for  libel  and  malice ....  In  these  nocturnal  strolls  were  sought 
and  found  the  weapons  which  finally  dealt  her  a  fatal  wound. 
The  mask-balls  at  the  opera  and  the  theatre,  the  intimacy  between 
her  and  the  Princess  of  Lamballe,  her  long  friendly  connection  with 
the  Duchess  of  Polignac,  offered  enough  material  for  accusation. 
Her  aversion  to  court  coercion  and  to  the  precise  obedience  of  the 
etiquette  proper  to  her  class,  were  regarded  as  neglect  and  dis- 
respect of  royal  duties.  And  though  no  one  knew  better  than  she 
how  to  act  the  role  of  queen  with  dignity  and  grace  when  she  so 
desired,  still  they  interpreted  her  unforced  freedom  as  immorality, 
and  her  aversion  to  some  people  as  irascibility."  But  Tilly  is  too 
partial,  as  he  needs  must  be,  to  a  queen  who  was  very  generous  to 
him.  And  it  should  be  recalled  that  he  was  not  a  regular  member 
of  the  inner  circle,  so  that  he  was  not  altogether  enlightened.  Nev- 
ertheless, despite  his  partiality  for  the  queen,  he  admits  that  she 
had  two  love  affairs — with  the  Duke  de  Coincy  and  Count  de 
Fersen. 

One  of  the  most  successful  of  the  anti-court  anti-Marie  pam- 
phlets was  an  obscene  satire  describing  her  amour  with  the  Count 
d'Artois — later  King  Charles  x;  the  supposed  impotence  of  the 
King  is  mocked  and  the  Queen  is  represented  as  a  model  of  licen- 
tiousness. At  the  behest  of  the  court,  the  whole  edition  was  bought 
from  the  booksellers  at  the  price  of  17,000  francs,  and  burnt  in  the 
Bastille.  Naturally,  a  few  copies  escaped  this  destruction,  and  later 
this  piece  was  reprinted  by  Mercier  de  Compiegne  in  his  Momus 
redivivus.  The  notorious  story  of  the  necklace  was  the  occasion 
of  the  pamphlet  Le  bordel  royal,  which  describes  a  secret  con- 
ference of  the  Queen  with  Cardinal  Rohan.  Of  equal  obscenity  is 
the  Bordel  patriotique.  The  Queen  and  Madame  Theroigne  dec- 
orate the  statue  of  Priapus  with  flowers,  and  use  their  hands  upon 
the  statue  in  a  very  obscene  fashion.  This  Theroigne  woman  in- 

116 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
stituted  a  patriotic  brothel,  and  in  the  freest  of  language  makes 
known  the  prerequisites  and  conditions  of  the  brothel  business. 
Of  a  similar  nature  is  the  Messaline  Franfaise,  in  which  the  author 
doesn't  hesitate  to  slander  the  Queen  for  having  had  intercourse 
with  him.  Of  like  scope  is  the  book  UAutrichiene  en  goguette, 
attributed  to  Mayeur  de  Saint-Paul.  The  interest  here  centers,  as 
in  dozens  of  others,  in  a  lesbian  scene  between  Marie  Antoinette, 
the  Duchess  of  Polignac  and  Count  d'Artois.  It  is  especially  amus- 
ing since  all  the  erotic  events  take  place  behind  the  back  of  the 
sleeping  King. 

A  pamphlet  directed  against  the  whole  courtly  society  is  the 
rare  and  remarkable  Bibliotheque  de  la  cour  (1781).  The  peculiar 
thing  about  it  is  that  every  person  is  characterized  by  the  possession 
of  an  eroticon  which  is  somehow  suited  to  his  character  or  life. 
Thus,  Cardinal  Rohan  has  the  Liaison  dangereiises;  Chevalier  d'Eon 
whose  sex  will  always  remain  a  mystery,  has  Description  de  Vile 
des  Hermaphrodites;  Talleyrand,  the  Archbishop  of  Lyons,  has  the 
Traite  sur  Vapostasie;  the  Archbishop  of  Paris  has  the  VArt  de 
peter;  the  Abbess  de  Polignac,  Traite  sur  les  accouchements,  and 
so  on  almost  indefinitely. 

Most  of  these  writings  were  distributed  from  England  or  Hol- 
land since  France  possessed  in  the  Bastille,  an  excellent  means  of 
silencing  these  malicious  tongues.  For  England  and  other  lands, 
there  was  another  remedy.  Out  of  fear  of  these  poisonous  pam- 
phlets one  entered  into  negotiations  with  the  authors,  through  inter- 
mediaries, and  sought  to  buy  their  silence.  This  practice,  begun 
during  the  reign  of  Louis  xiv,  roused  the  greed  of  the  malefactors. 
It  became  a  good  business,  this  mulcting  the  great  and  near-great. 
It  became  a  regular  trick  for  these  wallowers  in  mud  to  warn  the 
Chief  of  Police  at  Paris  concerning  the  impending  publication  of  a 
libel,  and  then  to  negotiate  for  the  very  profitable  sale  of  the  manu- 

117 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FRANCE 
script.  The  breadgiver  of  these  unsavory  folk  was  one  Brossiere,  a 
former  lackey  who  had  barely  escaped  the  gallows. 

If  in  a  land  as  absolutistic  as  France,  the  throne  could  not  escape 
these  attacks,  it  certainly  is  no  wonder  that  the  clergy  was  fero- 
ciously set  upon.  The  immoral  life  of  many  priests,  who  could  not 
be  represented  as  other  than  "loving",  provided  enough  material 
for  fierce  satire.  The  anthologies  too,  received  enough  cynical 
verses  which  censured  these  clerics  in  rounds  of  profanity.  It  was 
not  unnatural  that  religion  itself  should  finally  be  blamed  for  the 
continuous  misdeeds  and  abominations  of  its  professionals.  Cause 
was  mistaken  for  effect  and  the  devil  exorcised  by  Beelzebub.  Thus 
Evariste  Parny  wrote  Les  Galanteries  de  la  Bible,  in  which  he  at- 
tempted to  make  the  Bible  ridiculous  by  retelling  its  love  episodes 
in  a  frivolous  manner. 

The  first  place  among  anti-clerical  pamphleteers  was  occupied 
by  the  Parisian  lawyer,  Charles  Gervais  de  Latouche  (17 18-1782), 
with  his  classic  Portier  des  chartreux  which  appeared  under  the 
title  of  Histoire  de  Pom  Bougre.  Bougre  derives  from  Bulgaria, 
from  which  land  pederasty  is  supposed  to  have  spread.  The  book 
first  appeared  about  1 745,  though  the  exact  date  is  uncertain,  and 
may  be  regarded  as  the  naughtiest  and  maddest  mockery  of  cler- 
icaldom,  especially  monkery.  No  other  book  of  its  kind  aroused 
such  a  furore  and  was  so  frequently  reprinted;  no  other  represented 
the  monks  in  their  degradation  with  so  much  wit  and  savage  satire. 
At  the  same  time,  it  was  a  breviary  of  the  art  of  love  perfectly 
suited  to  the  erotic  taste  of  France  during  the  eighteenth  century. 
Naturally  the  offended  priests  moved  heaven  and  earth  to  have  the 
book  destroyed,  but  in  vain;  for  despite  all  persecutions  the  reprints 
were  as  numerous  as  mushrooms  after  rain.  Everyone  with  any 
education  read  it.  Lichtenberg  mentions  in  his  Aphorisms  and  in 

lis 


wp 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
a  letter  to  Dietrich  that  he  has  read  it,  and  remarks  that  it  is  a  very 
witty  if  a  very  dirty  book. 

Its  history  too  is  interesting.  It  is  first  mentioned  by  the  Marquis 
de  Paulmy  in  the  manuscript  of  his  catalogue.  This  edition  was 
provided  with  twenty-three  engravings  by  Catylas,  well  cut  but 
poorly  drawn.  Today  there  is  but  one  copy  owned  by  the  noted 
English  collector  Hankey.  The  Marquise  de  Pompadour  had  a  very 
handsome  edition,  richly  bound  and  decorated  with  twenty-eight 
miniatures  drawn  on  parchment.  She  was  very  fond  of  this  book 
with  its  daring  philosophy,  genial  composition,  magnificent  style, 
and  not  least,  its  obscenity.  In  a  letter  to  Vicomte  d'Herbigny  she 
speaks  of  it  in  terms  of  the  highest  admiration  and  urges  him  to  get 
a  copy  at  once  as  it  afforded  her  so  many  hours  of  pleasant  excita- 
tion. Pompadour's  copy  later  came  to  the  collection  of  Berard  and 
was  doubtless  destroyed  with  other  books  of  the  Arsenal  library. 
Of  the  third  edition  printed  at  Versailles  there  is  again  but  one  ex- 
tant copy  in  the  Bibliotheque  Mozarine,  with  a  dedication  to 
Marie  Antoinette.  A  most  valuable  and  attractive  edition  of  these 
Memoires  is  the  one  published  by  the  Cazin  press  in  1787,  dis- 
tinguished for  the  absolute  accuracy  of  its  text  and  decorated  with 
twenty-four  lovely  engravings  by  Borel  and  Elluin.  This  edition, 
of  which  one  copy  is  found  in  the  library  of  the  Palais  des  Arts, 
is  also  very  rare. 

Because  of  its  great  importance  in  the  history  of  French  erotic 
literature  the  contents  of  the  story  will  be  briefly  summarized.  The 
author  looks  back  upon  his  stirring  life  and  sees  the  array  of  all  his 
conquests  and  achievements.  He  is  presumably  the  son  of  a  peasant 
couple  but  in  his  paternity  all  the  brothers  of  a  cloister  were  parti- 
cipants. It  is  quite  by  accident  that  Saturnin  is  inducted  into  the 
mysteries  of  Venus.  One  afternoon  he  is  aroused  from  his  siesta  by 
the  sound  of  sighs  and  groans.  Through  a  hole  in  the  wall  he  sees 

119 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
his  supposed  mother  in  the  most  intimate  posture  with  the  family 
confessor.  Thoroughly  aroused  by  the  sight,  he  sings  the  song  of 
Hymen  with  his  own  hand.  As  a  result  of  this  experience  many 
things  become  clear  which  have  hitherto  been  obscure,  and  all  his 
wishes  are  hereafter  directed  to  doing  that  which  the  Pater  had 
done  with  his  mother.  His  sister  Susanna  appears  to  him  to  be  a 
likely  object  for  the  satisfaction  of  his  lust.  He  finds  her  picking 
flowers  one  day  and  after  some  hesitation  decides  to  take  her  by 
force.  But  she  defends  herself  pluckily,  so  he  desists,  especially 
as  he  sees  their  mother  approaching.  Next  day  they  both  visit  the 
religious  preceptress  of  Susanna  who  is  suspiciously  tender  to  both 
but  particularly  to  Saturnin,  who  is  daring  enough  to  venture  some 
amorous  contacts.  The  untimely  arrival  of  the  administrator  pre- 
vents him  from  using  his  advantages,  but  he  is  invited  to  come 
another  day.  On  the  way  home  he  again  seeks  to  make  Susanna 
comply  with  his  wishes  and  to  his  great  surprise  learns  from  her 
statements  that  she  knows  much  more  about  such  matters  than  he 
does.  After  some  struggle  she  informs  him  how  she  came  by  this 
knowledge. 

One  night  while  she  was  asleep  at  the  cloister  where  she  was 
being  educated.  Sister  Monika  had  slipped  into  her  bed  and  initiated 
her  into  tribady.  In  the  ensuing  conversation  Monika  sings  a  paean 
to  the  male  organ  and  is  astounded  to  discover  that  Susanna  doesn't 
know  the  names  for  the  genital  parts.  Monika  confesses  that  while 
very  young  she  had  felt  intense  sex  desires  and  had  made  various 
efforts  to  cool  her  heat.  Since  the  manipulations  of  manustupration 
no  longer  satisfy  her,  she  casts  her  eyes  upon  the  brother  of  one  of 
her  schoolmates.  She  offers  no  resistance  to  his  approaches  but  they 
are  discovered  while  still  in  the  preliminary  stages.  A  strict  investi- 
gation ensues  and  Monika  is  sentenced  to  chastisement  but  she  de- 
fends herself  so  wildly  that  six  nuns  are  no  match  for  her.  In  the 

120 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
scuffle  there  drops  from  the  pocket  of  one  of  them  a  godemiche 
which  Monika  attempts  to  use  as  soon  as  she  is  alone.  When  she 
finds  no  success  in  this  she  desists  in  great  disappointment  but  de- 
cides to  revenge  herself  for  the  treatment  she  has  received,  and 
then  to  disappear.  The  Another  Superior  reproaches  her  severely 
for  her  conduct  of  the  previous  day,  but  becomes  all  kindness  when 
Monika  shows  her  the  instrument,  as  an  example  of  the  sort  of 
thing  that  goes  on  in  the  cloister.  At  once  it  becomes  obvious  from 
her  embarrassment  that  the  Mother  Superior  is  the  owner  of  the 
article.  When  Monika's  mother  arrives  in  answer  to  a  summons,  she 
is  informed  by  the  Superior  that  her  daughter  is  perfectly  innocent 
and  that  the  summons  had  been  a  misunderstanding. 

During  the  night  Monika  has  an  erotic  dream  and  realizes  when 
she  awakes  that  it  has  been  no  dream  but  reality,  for  she  finds  her- 
self in  the  arms  of  the  valet  to  the  nunnery  chaplain,  and  had  thus 
painlessly  lost  her  maidenhood.  One  night  of  love  succeeds  another 
and  soon  Monika  notices  that  she  is  pregnant.  Tearfully  she  informs 
Martin,  her  valet-lover,  who  comforts  her  with  the  assurance  that 
his  master  has  a  medicine  which  can  remove  the  disagreeable  con- 
sequences. This  medicine  has  been  used  successfully  by  Angelica, 
one  of  the  six  nuns  who  had  sought  to  punish  Monika.  This  he  knew 
from  Angelica's  letters  to  his  master.  Thereupon,  Monika  decides  to 
have  her  revenge  and  orders  Martin  to  bring  her  the  letters — and  the 
medicine.  She  succeeds  in  getting  the  letters  to  the  Mother  Superior, 
and  the  latter,  jealous  of  the  favors  of  the  chaplain  to  another,  in- 
carcerates Angelica.  The  chaplain  suspects  Martin  of  having  pur- 
loined the  letters  and  dismisses  him.  The  end  of  the  narrative  brings 
another  love  scene  between  Monika  and  Susanna. 

This  lengthy  recital  has  excited  both  Satumin  and  Susanna  con- 
siderably, and  the  former,  tense  with  passion,  is  now  convinced 
that  he  will  meet  with  no  opposition  if  he  is  but  able  to  assure 

121 


THE  EHOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
Susanna  that  there  will  be  no  evil  consequences.  Just  then  he 
gets  an  idea.  He  takes  the  girl  up  to  his  room  and  lets  her  be  the 
eye  witness  of  the  sex  play  between  Pater  Ambrosius  and  Toinette. 
Susanna  is  so  overwrought  that  she  makes  no  resistance  whatever. 
Attracted  by  the  noise,  the  Pater  and  Toinette  become  aware  of 
the  others'  game.  The  latter  is  at  first  speechless,  then  takes  Satumin 
into  her  room  to  instruct  him  in  the  mysteries  of  Venus.  The  Pater 
who  had  remained  with  Susanna  was  not  quite  so  fortunate.  Since 
the  boy  is  in  the  way  of  the  Pater  and  his  love,  he  is  sent  away  to 
the  pension  of  the  local  priest.  From  here  he  visits  Susanna's  nun 
who  gives  him  happiness.  On  one  of  the  following  nights  he  seeks 
to  gain  his  end  with  the  priest's  niece  but  misses  her  door  and 
enters  the  room  of  the  old  governess  instead.  The  next  day  he 
enters  the  cloister,  and  with  this  the  first  part  is  concluded. 

The  second  portion  deals  with  the  experiences  of  Saturnin  in 
the  monastery  in  which  he  finds  himself  very  uncomfortable  at 
first.  With  no  women  present,  he  once  again  falls  into  the  sin  of 
self-abuse.  A  fellow  inmate  once  comes  upon  him  as  he  is  engaged 
in  this  pastime  and  invites  him  to  become  acquainted  with  the  ex- 
cesses of  the  brothers  in  the  church.  The  novice  participates  in 
these  orgies,  and  at  one  of  them  makes  the  acquaintance  of  his  real 
mother  who  requests  him  to  cohabit  with  her;  a  vestige  of  shame 
restrains  him,  for  which  the  monks  praise  him.  After  an  excursus 
concerning  the  delights  of  venery  and  cloister  life,  Satumin  tells 
of  his  impotence  induced  by  excessive  indulgence.  An  old  Pater, 
in  whom  he  confides,  advises  him  to  become  father  confessor — for 
the  piquant  confessions  of  the  lovely  confessors  are  not  to  be 
despised  as  aphrodisiacs. 

Saturnin  follows  this  advice  and  soon  feels  himself  in  possession 
of  his  virile  powers.  In  his  new  potency  he  rapes  a  pretty  confessor, 
who  turns  out  to  be  Monika,  Susanna's  bosom  friend  and  mentor. 

122 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
She  reports  that  she  had  carried  on  a  simultaneous  relationship  with 
Verland  and  the  valet  Martin,  who  had  come  to  blows  when  they 
discovered  their  partnership.  Hence  she  had  fled  to  Saturnin,  and 
wished  to  remain  with  him.  He  decides  to  have  her  participate 
in  the  orgies  of  the  cloister  but  his  plan  meets  with  failure.  In  his 
absence  they  find  Monika,  and  to  escape  punishment  by  his  order, 
he  flees  to  Paris  where  he  meets  Susanna  in  a  brothel.  Despite  her 
struggle  and  her  warning  that  she  is  sick,  Saturnin  cohabits  with 
her.  During  their  sleep  there  is  a  raid  and  in  the  confusion  they  are 
separated.  He  finally  gets  to  the  hospital  in  a  grave  venereal  con- 
dition, the  outcome  of  which  is  that  he  is  eunuchized.  Susanna  dies 
of  her  sorrows,  and  with  these  tragic  events  the  book  closes.  Thus 
are  the  ways  of  sin  rewarded. 

This  book  which  may  justly  be  regarded  as  the  standard  work 
of  erotic  anti-clerical  literature  had  an  enormous  vogue.  Frederick 
the  Great  found  it  in  the  equipment  of  French  officers.  It  was 
therefore  natural  that  in  a  time  which  was  almost  delirious  about 
sex,  it  should  call  forth  a  host  of  imitations.  The  chief  of  the  fol- 
lowers of  Gervaise  who  sought  to  justify  their  debaucheries  by 
attacking  the  church,  is  indubitably  the  Abbe  Henri  Jos.  de  Dulau- 
rens  (17 19-1797).  All  his  life  he  harbored  a  berserker  rage  against 
the  Jesuits.  He  was  finally  rendered  invulnerable;  the  last  twenty 
years  of  his  life  he  was  confined  in  a  mental  hospital.  He  it  was 
who  said  that  he  knew  God  only  from  heresay.  His  most  famous 
works  UArretin  Moderne  and  Le  Compere  Mathieu  are  cynical 
in  the  extreme. 

The  first  book  is  preceded  by  the  almost  prophetic  phrase: 
Parve,  nee  invideo,  sine  me,  liber  ibis  ignem.  This  work  contains  an 
obscene  criticism  of  the  Bible  and  religious  observances  in  twenty- 
five  stories.  In  keeping  with  the  ideas  of  the  time,  the  book  is  an 
apologia  for  vice.  It  is  an  endeavor  to  remodel  ethical  values  and 

123 


y 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
to  defend  the  lax  morals  of  the  author.  The  wish  to  appear  orig- 
inal is  transparent  but  the  proof  of  the  positions  assumed  are  mere 
sophistry,  and  the  inner  mendacity  and  emptiness  of  the  author 
leers  at  us  all  the  time.  This  whole  offensive  against  the  clergy 
lacks  wit  and  the  book  has  been  worsened  considerably  by  the 
frivolities  that  weigh  it  down.  What  for  example  does  Dulaurens 
hope  to  accomplish  by  the  silly  tale  of  the  godemiche?  A  Father 
Superior  has  impregnated  a  nun  and  enlists  the  aid  of  an  old  witch 
who  advises  him  to  feed  the  unfortunate  one  mandragora  roots  and 
other  ingredients  to  the  accompaniment  of  magic  incantations.  He 
follows  this  advice  and  the  nun  gives  birth  to  no  human  creature, 
but  to  a  godemiche.  This  comforts  a  number  of  nuns  and  he  finally 
breathes  his  last  while  in  the  arms  of  the  decrepit  sorceress.  This 
tale  does  not  stand  alone  in  its  absurdity. 

The  fifteenth  story  is  the  most  cynical  and  paradoxical — it  deals 
with  the  theme  of  L'  Utilite  des  vices.  Dulaurens  takes  the  position 
that  vices  are  more  useful  to  society  than  virtues.  The  latter  are 
sterile,  uniform,  monotonous — in  short,  chimeras  to  keep  men  in 
darkness.  Vanity  and  egotism  are  necessary  if  the  world  is  to  go  on. 
Crimes  are  many  and  diverse  and  nature  itself  develops  the  seeds 
of  our  vices.  Love  is  the  indispensable  sin  for  society.  Passion  is  the 
favorite  child  of  nature.  A  passionate  girl  affords  more  joy  than  a 
virtuous  one,  and  it  is  lust  alone  which  makes  us  love  women.  It 
takes  a  man  who  embraces  a  virtuous  girl  a  long  time  to  experience 
the  joys  he  can  find  among  the  girls  of  Montigny.  Man  cannot  be  satis- 
fied with  one  woman.  How  many  days  are  there  when  his  wife  is  in- 
accessible to  him  owing  to  menstruation,  pregnancy  and  childbirth! 
Hence,  he  must  wander  to  other  pastures;  and  while  society  is  con- 
demning him  to  continence,  by  opposing  it  he  has  made  many 
additions  to  the  population.  Passion  performs  a  public  service  for 
it  prevents  hoarding  and  keeps  money  flowing  into  industry. 

124 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
Of  similar  scope  is  the  second  work,  Le  Compere  Mathieu.  In  his 
customary  blending  of  frivolity  and  blasphemy,  Dulaurens  rep- 
resents religion  as  something  unnatural,  and  he  establishes  the  rel- 
ativity of  good  and  evil;  wherefore,  all  is  permitted  and  punishment 
doomed  to  pass  away.  This  is  the  true  evil  and  the  source  of  it  all  is  the 
state  which  is  also  fated  to  disappear.  A  third  work  by  the  same 
author.  La  Chandelle,  is  an  obscene  mock  heroic  poem  concerning 
the  fortunes  of  a  strumpet  healed  of  her  illness  through  the  inter- 
vention of  the  Virgin  Alary.  It  depicts  with  great  clarity  the  female 
practices  in  the  nunneries.  In  this  same  fashion,  writers  like  Eva- 
riste  Parny,  Voltaire,  Voisenon  and  Mirabeau  wrote.  Parny's  work 
on  the  war  of  the  gods  and  the  gallantries  of  the  Bible,  La  Chris- 
tainide,  was  strenuously  suppressed  by  Napoleon  and  during  the 
Restoration  it  was  finally  bought  up  by  the  government  and  con- 
fiscated. These  anti-clerical  attacks  fell  in  with  the  taste  of  the 
time  whose  influence  few  could  escape. 

A  most  important  work,  perfectly  typical  of  erotic  eighteenth- 
century  France,  for  it  contains  more  fact  than  fiction,  is  the  work 
Therese_^htlQm^he.  Although  the  authorship  is  doubtful  it  may 
with  strong  probability  be  attributed  to  the  Marquis  d'Argens  who 
was  the  author  of  other  erotica.  There  are  many  grounds  for  this 
attribution,  and  that  it  was  suspected  a  long  time  ago  may  be  seen 
from  the  following  interesting  anecdote.  Frederick  the  Great  had 
painted  the  most  important  scenes  of  this  work  and  ordered  that 
chief  figures  be  painted  to  resemble  Marquis  d'Argens  and  Madame 
Cochois.  Once  the  Marquis'  room  was  secretly  decorated  with  these 
pictures  which  "greatly  astonished  milord  but  pleased  him  little". 
In  reality,  however,  this  fuss  about  authorship  is  vain  for  we  are  not 
dealing  here  with  creations  of  fancy.  The  contents  of  the  book  are 
based  on  actual  incidents  which  had  taken  place  some  time  before. 
Catharina  Cariere  (Eradice),  the  pious  and  beautiful  daughter  of  a 

125 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FKANCE 
rich  merchant,  had  entered  the  native  confessional  institution  for 
women  estabhshed  by  the  Jesuit  Girard  Dirrag.  The  lubricity  of 
the  monk  immediately  directed  itself  toward  this  shy  young  crea- 
ture. By  using  her  dreams  and  visions  for  his  shocking  purposes  and 
invoking  an  attenuated  sex  mysticism,  he  finally  succeeded  in 
making  the  girl  accessible  to  his  erotic  desires.  The  uninterrupted 
orgiastic  erethism  and  the  excessive  spiritual  raptures  induced  a 
grave  hysteria  in  Catharina;  and  when  she  became  pregnant  the 
Jesuit  knew  how  to  employ  an  efficacious  abortive.  The  matter 
finally  got  to  the  courts  and  despite  general  disappointment,  the 
court  freed  the  man  and,  what  is  worse,  sentenced  the  unfortunate 
girl  to  pay  costs  for  libel. 

It  was  this  true  material  which  the  author  employed  in  a  devastat- 
ing satire  against  the  clergy  and  religion.  A  supposed  eye-witness, 
the  philosophical  Therese  describes  the  proceedings,  informs  us  of 
her  own  reactions  to  them,  and  throughout  her  views  concerning 
the  rational  satisfaction  of  human  love  needs.  Although  there  are 
obscene  incidents  aplenty,  these  are  overlooked,  due  to  the  para- 
mount importance  of  the  book  as  a  source  document  of  social  and 
erotic  history;  for  this  reason  it  has  defied  all  attempts  at  sup- 
pression. 

In  order  to  characterize  the  style  and  thought  content  of  the 
work  two  excerpts  from  different  portions  are  appended.  It  is  ob- 
vious that  the  doctrines  are  by  no  means  harmless,  and  are  cal- 
culated to  induce  considerable  confusion  in  the  minds  of  readers 
who  lack  judgment. 

The  first  aims  to  disprove  freedom  of  the  will.  We  are  com- 
pelled to  act  by  various  factors  not  in  our  control.  The  kind  of 
organs,  the  distribution  of  nerves  in  our  body,  a  certain  type  of 
movement,  the  absence  of  particular  juices,  all  these  variables  con- 
trol our  passions,  whose  strength  determines  our  will  in  the  most 

126 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
important  relationships  of  our  life.  Accordingly  there  are  passion- 
ate people,  wise  people  and  crazy  people.  The  last  mentioned  are 
no  more  or  less  free  than  both  other  types  for  they  also  act  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  same  fundamental  laws.  If  we  are  to  assume 
that  man  is  free  and  follows  his  own  will,  we  set  him  on  a  plane 
with  God.  Foolish  people  to  believe  that  you  have  the  power  to 
suppress  the  passions  implanted  by  nature!  Shall  human  creatures, 
the  handiwork  of  God,  suppress  their  passions  or  destroy  them  and 
thus  attempt  to  appear  mightier  than  God?  Let  things  be  as  the 
old  creator  has  made  them,  for  all  is  good  and  must  be  as  it  is. 

We  can  see  at  once  that  if  the  freedom  of  the  will  is  denied,  and 
passion  is  not  to  be  opposed  because  it  has  been  placed  in  us  by 
God,  every  man  is  free  to  give  himself  over  to  debauchery  accord- 
ing to  the  measure  of  his  power.  Indeed  he  must  do  so,  for  "God 
wills  it". 

The  second  quotation  is  an  abridgement  of  the  seduction  scene, 
expurgated  to  omit  all  the  obscenities  of  detail  and  description. 
The  Pater  enters  the  confessional  room  and  asks  his  pupil:  "Is  the 
stigma  that  you  have  on  your  breast  still  in  the  same  spot?  Let  me 
see  it? "  Eradice  immediately  uncovers  her  left  breast  beneath  which 
the  stigma  is  located. 

"Ah,  it  is  still  there,  rosy  and  red.  Saint  Francis  still  loves  you. 
And  I  have  once  again  brought  with  me  a  piece  of  his  rope  which 
we  shall  use  at  our  exercise  later.  We  shall  have  great  reward,  dear 
daughter,  if  you  fulfill  your  obligations.  This  holy  exercise  will 
shower  you  with  ineffable  bliss,  thanks  to  the  rope  of  the  sacred 
Francis  and  your  own  pious  contemplation.  On  your  knees,  my 
child.  Expose  that  part  of  your  flesh  which  arouses  God's  wrath! 
The  pain  you  feel  will  bring  your  spirit  into  connection  with  God. 
I  repeat:  forget  yourself  and  let  everything  happen  to  you." 

Eradice  obeyed  at  once  in  silence.  Holding  a  book  before  her, 

127 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
she  kneeled  and  lifted  her  skirts  and  undershirt  until  her  girdle, 
discovering  snow-white  and  perfectly  formed  buttocks  carried  by- 
two  splendid  thighs. 

"Raise  your  skirt  higher,"  he  ordered.  "Now  that's  better.  Now 
fold  your  hands  and  lift  your  soul  to  God.  Fill  your  spirit  with  the 
thought  of  the  eternal  bliss  destined  for  you."  He  kneeled  down, 
raised  his  cowl  high,  tied  it  with  his  girdle,  and  brought  forth  a 
thick  bunch  of  long  rods  which  he  gave  the  girl  to  kiss.  She  obeyed 
silently.  The  Pater  feasted  his  eyes  hungrily  on  her  thighs  and 
whispered  to  himself:  "What  a  beautiful  bosom.  What  charming 
breasts."  Presently  he  arose  and  murmured  a  Biblical  phrase.  Noth- 
ing escaped  his  lascivious  curiosity.  Finally,  he  asked  the  beautiful 
penitent  whether  her  soul  was  in  devotion. 

"Yes,  worthy  father.  I  feel  that  my  soul  is  becoming  separated 
from  my  body,  and  I  beg  you  to  begin  the  holy  work." 

"That  suffices.  Your  spirit  will  be  satisfied."  He  said  a  few  pray- 
ers and  then  administered  three  light  blows  upon  her  hind  quarters, 
followed  by  another  verse.  Finally,  the  holy  rope  got  into  action. 
One  can  readily  understand  what  sort  of  rope  it  was. 

Of  course  every  one  at  all  acquainted  with  the  history  of  French 
culture  realizes  that  the  case  of  Pater  Gerard  does  not  stand  alone, 
and  that  intimate  relations  between  confessor  and  penitent  were 
not  infrequent  in  those  days.  Today  such  a  contretemps  would  not 
raise  so  much  dust  though  every  year  a  number  of  such  are  re- 
ported in  the  newspapers.  One  may  compare  the  similar  case  of 
the  Abbe  Reginald  Outhier  who  however  defended  himself  very 
skillfully  in  his  Dissertation  theologique  sur  le  peche  du  confesseur 
avec  sa  penitente. 

In  1760  there  appeared  Les  Delices  du  Cloitre  and  Les  Lauriers 
ecclesiastiques,  the  work  of  Jacques-Rochete  de  la  Morliere,  the 
famous  author  of  Angela.  This  La  Morliere  ( 17 19-1785)  was  a  bad 

12s 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
sort.  Originally  destined  for  the  law  he  was  disqualified,  entered 
the  army  and  had  to  flee  because  of  a  scandal.  Having  been  dis- 
owned by  his  family,  he  turned  to  writing  romances  in  the  style  of 
Crebillon  the  younger.  Difficulties  with  the  police  resulted  in  his 
flight.  Upon  returning  he  took  to  the  drama  but  was  hissed  off  the 
stage.  In  desperation  he  became  a  cliqueur  and  gradually  sank  deep- 
er into  misery.  The  first  of  the  above  mentioned  writings  scores 
those  parents  who  still  believe  in  the  purity  of  cloister  life  and 
immure  their  inexperienced  girls  without  consideration  for  their 
love  desires.  He  believes  that  there  is  no  better  way  of  lashing  the 
wicked  life  of  the  cloister  than  a  frank  exposure  of  the  vices  that 
teem  in  those  institutions.  His  expose  is  never  obscene,  though  per- 
haps too  informative.  His  moral  lessons  are  obvious  and  persuasive. 
Two  nuns,  Julia  and  Dorothea  are  conversing.  The  first  reports  that 
the  cloister  physician  is  preparing  for  an  amorous  affair  with  her 
and  describes  his  palpations  and  her  shyness.  Dorothea  enjoins  her 
not  to  permit  her  lover  to  languish  in  vain.  Julia  takes  her  advice 
and  the  next  scene  discovers  her  surrender. 

The  other  story,  based  largely  upon  facts,  departs  somewhat 
from  the  scenes  of  clerical  life  and  journeys  merrily  into  high  soci- 
ety. The  Abbe  Terray,  a  contemporary  of  La  Morliere,  visits  his 
uncle  and  becomes  acquainted  with  the  latter's  soul-friend  who 
after  some  hesitation  grants  his  love-request.  Their  pleasure  is 
heightened  because  they  take  their  joys  on  the  same  bed  on  which 
the  cuckold  reposes  and  in  his  immediate  proximity.  But  the  happi- 
ness of  the  lovers  doesn't  last  long.  A  young  serving  maid  has  fallen 
so  violently  in  love  with  the  abbe  that  she  finally  goes  to  his  room 
and  declares  her  love.  The  happy  man  must  now  share  his  love  with 
two  women.  The  Marquise  promptly  discovers  this  through  her 
spies.  Her  jealousy  is  aroused  to  such  a  pitch  that  she  has  the  young 

129 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FEANCE 
abbe  transferred  to  a  distant  abbey  and  the  little  chamber  pussy 
cat  married  to  a  bourgeois. 

The  exiled  one  takes  his  luck  with  him,  however.  On  the  way  he 
meets  a  charming  lady  whose  coach  has  broken  down.  He  offers 
her  the  use  of  his  own  vehicle,  becomes  useful  in  other  ways  and  on 
the  morrow  receives  the  siimmum  bonum.  But  he  soon  realizes  that 
he  is  sharing  his  beloved  with  a  brawny  Franciscan.  He  and  two 
cronies  administer  a  solid  drubbing  to  the  latter  when  they  find  him 
in  delicto  flagrante  with  the  charming  lady.  In  the  meantime,  the 
father  of  the  young  abbe  has  died  and  the  latter  must  return  home. 
He  has  a  slight  dispute  over  some  boundaries  with  a  neighboring 
duke  which  he  settles  in  favor  of  the  latter.  The  duke  is  so  over- 
joyed at  this  eventuality  that  he  presents  the  abbe  to  the  duchess, 
while  the  lady  is  still  in  bed,  and  leaves  the  two  alone.  He  assists  at 
her  levee  and,  though  disturbed  by  an  untimely  visitor,  proceeds 
to  the  onslaught  successfully. 

But  for  the  nth  time,  he  finds  that  there  are  other  men  in  the 
world,  for  he  surprises  his  Dulcinea  in  the  arms  of  her  servant.  He 
foreswears  the  unfaithful  one,  and  returns  to  his  uncle  where  he  is 
present  at  the  investiture  of  a  most  beautiful  nun,  whose  parents 
are  compelling  her  to  assume  the  veil.  He  falls  in  love  with  her  and 
all  obstacles  are  overcome.  At  the  death  of  the  girl's  parents,  both 
renounce  the  clerical  life  and  the  abbe  leads  the  nun  home  with 
him. 

In  another  important  book  of  a  similar  nature,  Venus  dans  le  cloi- 
tre^  which  appeared  at  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century  but 
was  many  times  reprinted  in  the  eighteenth,  two  nuns,  Angelica 
and  Agnes,  chat  about  the  amorous  regimen  current  in  the  cloister. 
Free  indulgence  is  defended  with  philosophic  cliches,  and  coun- 
selled as  a  way  of  life.  This  book  also  shows  that  erotic  literature 
was  well  known  to  the  ladies  of  the  cloister.  Liiisa  Sigea  comes  in 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
for  a  special  meed  of  praise,  and  in  one  place  a  catalogue  is  given 
of  a  series  of  porneia,  all  lost  today,  but  whose  titles  amply  testify 
to  their  strong  anti-clerical  tendency. 

If  these  works  were  occasionally  written  for  a  purpose,  they 
nevertheless  in  their  totality  constitute  a  true  picture  of  the  im- 
moral deportment  of  the  church  and  many  of  its  servants.  Indeed, 
we  possess  enough  historical  witnesses  to  confirm  the  truth  of  these 
pamphlets,  for  instance:  La  Chastete  du  clerge  devoilee  ou  Proces- 
Verbaux  des  seances  du  clerge  chez  les  filles  du  Fans.  Trouves  a  la 
Bastille  (1790).  This  is  authentic  material.  Here  we  find  the  exact 
names,  status,  and  residence  of  those  clerics  who  were  caught  with 
prostitutes  before  the  Revolution.  The  list  is  long  though  only  a 
small  proportion  of  these  debaucheries  became  public  since  most 
of  them  were  naturally  carried  on  secretly. 

There  are  two  more  far-reaching  works  which  have  to  be  con- 
sidered, since  their  revolting  cynicism  opens  invaluable  perspec- 
tives upon  French  society  of  that  time.  The  first  is  a  book  of  six 
songs,  each  of  which  contains  three  hundred  verses.  The  title  is 
La  Foutromajzie,  and  the  author  Senac  de  Meilhan.  Gods  and  man 
alike  have  joy  in  foutromanie,  the  former  to  dispel  their  ennui,  the 
latter  for  their  very  happiness.  Mile.  Dubois,  actress,  of  the  Comedie 
f  ran^aise,  cannot  be  without  it.  Mesdames  Arnould  and  Clairon  with 
their  parner  Count  Valbelle  are  passionately  devoted  to  it;  and 
Mme.  Allard  has  probed  the  utmost  refinements  of  it  with  Duke  de 
Mazarin.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  first  song  the  duchesses  and  court 
ladies  march  in  and  have  dalHance  with  their  lackeys.  The  second 
song  is  opened  with  a  description  of  the  corporeal  delights  of  a 
virgin  who  has  fallen  into  the  clutches  of  a  roue.  After  the  inter- 
polation of  Chrysostom  against  sexual  debaucheries  in  the  cloister, 
there  is  broadly  related  how  one  afflicted  with  satyriasis  enters  a 
monastery  and  how  he  ministers  to  his  blazing  desires.  This  affords 

131 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOBY  OF  FRANCE 
the  author  the  best  opportunity  to  attack  the  vices  of  tribady  and 
pederasty.  Towards  the  close,  de  Meilhan  mentions  syphilis  which 
forms  the  transition  to  the  third  song,  almost  entirely  dedicated  to 
this  disease.  The  author  cannot  sufficiently  praise  the  now  per- 
fected means  of  curing  the  malady.  Many  luetic  lovers  are  adduced 
and  the  luetic  prelates  come  in  for  special  mention.  The  song  ends 
with  a  praise  of  Aretino,  the  discoverer  of  the  plastic  positions.  The 
fourth  song  emphasizes  the  great  advantages  of  the  bordello.  A 
hymn  of  praise  is  sung  to  the  great  procuresses:  Paris,  Gourdan, 
Montigny,  d'Hericourt  Carlier,  etc.,  and  then  we  are  permitted  to 
witness  passionate  orgies  in  these  dives.  The  song  is  concluded  with 
a  praise  of  German  women  and  a  curse  upon  Italy  where  the  author 
had  lost  health  and  money.  The  fifth  chanson  seeks  to  allay  the  fears 
of  syphiliphobes.  Not  all  women  contain  this  abominable  ailment. 
Montesquieu,  Rousseau,  Marmontel  dared  and  came  out  unscathed. 
Finally  the  timorous  are  encouraged  by  pointing  to  the  example  of 
Maria-Theresa,  Catherine  ii,  the  King  of  Poland  and  the  deceased 
Queen  of  Denmark.  The  last  song  is  a  paean  to  Dr.  Agyroni  who  has 
cured  the  author  of  his  disease.  After  a  display  of  his  medical 
knowledge  on  the  subject  the  song  culminates  in  a  repeated  eulogy 
of  Foutromanie  as  the  pillar  of  the  world. 

This  book  served  as  a  model  for  La  Masturbomanie,  in  the  fore- 
word to  which  the  author  states  that  he  sings  the  incomparable  joy 
of  Onan,  the  independent  self-created  pleasure  of  man,  and  one 
most  worthy  of  a  philosopher. 

The  other  far-reaching  work  that  serves  as  a  companion  piece  to 
Foutromanie  is  ParapiUa,  a  book  of  five  songs  written  by  Charles 
Bordes.  It  tells  the  story  of  a  wonderful  instrument  which  is  the 
joy  of  all  ladies.  Rodric  receives  it  direct  from  heaven;  from  him  it 
gets  to  Donna  Capponi,  to  a  nunnery  and  finally  to  the  hands  of 
Lucrezia  Borgia.  This  affords  the  writer  an  excellent  opportunity 

132 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUKY 
to  describe  the  wild  life  under  Alexander  vi.  Although  this  work 
was  not  published  until  1775  it  was  known  earlier;  in  1773  Voltaire 
in  a  letter  to  Bordes  had  termed  it  one  of  the  "best  books  of  this 
genre  that  we  possess".  In  his  memoirs,  Bachaumont  makes  some 
perspicacious  remarks  concerning  this  book.  He  points  out  that 
despite  the  obscene  subject  matter  there  is  not  an  obscene  word  to 
be  found  in  it;  in  keeping  with  his  theme  the  fabulist  had  drawn 
very  free  pictures  but  always  veiled  and  with  the  most  decorous 
means.  He  asserts  that  there  never  was  a  merrier  or  lighter  volume 
than  this  short  epic  of  folly  and  choice  taste. 

The  readers  for  whom  the  above  mentioned  works  were  in- 
tended did  not,  naturally,  belong  to  the  circle  of  those  normal, 
naive  people  who  find  pleasure  in  bathing  nymphs  and  enraptured 
shepherds.  For  the  readers  of  this  erotic  literature  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  strong  stuff  was  needed,  cynical  and  urmatural,  for  their 
jaded  senses  would  not  react  to  ordinary  or  high  literature. 


CHAPTER  Vni 

THE  OBSCENITY  OF  THE  THEATRES 


THE  theatre  has  always  been  the  best  mirror  of  morality  in 
any  age.  When  life  became  more  than  free,  the  boards 
swarmed  with  frivolity  and  obscenity  of  every  kind.  In  twenty- 
three  theatres  the  muse  wore  her  skirt  as  high  up  as  possible  and 
pornographic  clubs  multiplied  and  came  out  of  their  concealment. 
Pamphlets,  comedies,  vaudevilles,  even  parodies  upon  operas  and 
musical  pieces  had  to  include  the  erotic  touch.  One  contemporary 
avers  that  the  works  of  Crebillon  junior  were  moral  by  comparison 
with  these  small  pieces  which  laughed  hilariously  at  all  virtue.  But 
no  matter  how  far  some  had  gone,  there  were  still  many  poets  and 
mimes  who  refused  to  say  obscene  things.  However,  in  a  small 
intimate  circle  there  is  no  need  for  any  inhibition,  not  even  of  the 
most  extreme  perversity.  Hence  private  theatres  were  established 
in  which  no  bounds  were  set  to  any  word  or  deed.  Behind  the 
grated  lodges  of  these  small  secret  theatres,  the  noble  ladies  of  finest 
society  might  witness  the  erotic  plays  which  showed  priapism  and 
philosophy  in  strange  mixture.  The  famous  dancer  Guimard  had 
such  a  theatre  in  her  country  home  at  Panin  for  which  Colle  sup- 
plied the  shows.  We  must  not  make  the  mistake  of  concluding  that 
these  secret  theatres  were  the  original  creation  of  the  rococo  period. 
They  are  as  old  as  the  theatre  itself  and  as  justified  to  a  certain  type 
of  human  being  as  when  the  odi  projanum  viilgus  was  first  uttered. 
The  wealthy  lover  of  the  theatre  provided  for  himself  a  stage  on 

134 


BOOK.  Ill:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
which  those  plays  that  would  gratify  his  own  taste  would  be  pro- 
duced. This  is  no  more  unnatural  than  the  corresponding  fact  that 
poets  will  always  be  found  who  will  drive  their  Pegasus  to  a  water- 
ing place  of  excrement  for  the  sake  of  money.  The  old  French 
writers  of  farces  may  here  be  remembered;  and  that  Bussy-Rabu- 
tin's  Comtesse  (VOlonfie  is  as  characteristic  of  its  century  as  the 
Theatre  de  la  rue  de  la  Sante  is  of  the  nineteenth  century.  But  it  does 
remain  true  that  the  rococo  period  has  the  doubtful  distinction  of 
being  richest  in  these  erotic  theatres. 

The  indiscreet  deeds  at  nunneries  form  the  subject  of  derision  in 
various  pieces.  Colle  composed  a  skit  about  four  bishops  called 
Accidents,  which  by  his  own  testimony  was  so  obscene  that  he 
dared  not  print  it.  Very  numerous  were  the  revolutionary  comedies 
directed  against  church,  state  and  monarchy.  In  1791  there  was 
a  public  theatre  at  the  Palais  Royal  where  a  so-called  savage  and 
a  woman  performed  coitus  before  a  crowd  of  people  of  both  sexes. 
Finally  both  actors  were  summoned  before  the  justice  of  the  peace 
and  it  turned  out  that  the  savage  was  some  rascal  from  the  suburb 
of  St.  Anthoine,  and  the  woman  a  common  whore  who  had  earned 
considerable  sums  by  such  pandering  to  the  pruriency  of  the  public. 
If  the  latter  could  not  be  actors  in  these  spectacles  at  least  they 
could  be  spectators;  and  La  Mettrie  remarks  in  his  VArt  de  Joiiir: 
The  sight  of  others'  pleasure  is  our  own. 

To  obtain  some  insight  into  these  orgies  of  the  better  society  one 
should  read  Co?jfessio?is  generales  des  Princes  du  sang,  otherwise 
one  will  never  understand  the  lewd  royalistic  tragedies  which 
existed  at  the  time.  Or  failing  this,  one  should  thumb  La  France 
foutue.  These  are  the  indispensable  documents  for  the  history  of 
erotic  elements  in  political  caricature.  On  the  title-page  one  sees 
Louis  XVI  sitting  on  the  penitent's  seat  in  line  with  other  penitents. 
On  one  side  kneels  a  high  courtier  and  on  the  other  a  princely 

135 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FMANCE 
strumpet.  A  brief  resume  of  the  plot  is  now  appended.  The  char- 
acters are: 

La  France 

England — brothel  mistress  ivho  oixms  a  brothel  at  the  Duke  of 

Orleans'  castle. 
Mlle.  Vendee — a  lady  of  honor  and  intime  of  France 
Duke  of  Orleans — brothel  monger 
Count  de  Puissaye — king  of  rogues 
Frederick  William  III 
Francis  II  of  GerxMany 
Charles  IV  of  Spain 

Three  knights,  five  English  women,  five  pages  of  the  Duke  of 

Orleans,  troops  and  citizens. 

The  action  takes  place  in  the  private  chambers  of  the  Duke  of 
Orleans  at  the  Palais  Royal.  The  theatre  represents  a  luxurious 
boudoir  equipped  with  many  sofas. 

Act  I 

Frederick  William  III,  Francis  II,  Charles  IV  and  the  Duke  of 
Orleans  are  engaged  with  an  equal  number  of  Englishwomen, 
each  one  on  a  sofa.  One  bares  the  boso?n  of  his  woman  and  kisses 
the  breasts,  another  fondles  the  dorsal  hemispheres,  after  he 
has  hiked  her  skirts  up  to  her  girdle,  a  third  uncovers  his  wench 
aft  and  explores  the  decks  there.  The  women  are  standing  or  sit- 
ing on  the  knees  of  their  men,  depending  on  the  position  of  the 
latter.  England  lies  on  a  couch  in  the  center  in  a  very  indecent 
position. 

Act  II 

In  the  instant  in  which  the  three  kings  carry  Madame  France  to 
the  couch,  the  five  Englishwomen  enter,  each  carrying  a  differ- 
ent object:  a  bidet,  a  pot  of  water,  a  sponge,  perfume  bottle,  and 
finally  underwear.  Puissaye  makes  an  obscene  gesture  to  the 
Vendee  woman  and  draws  her  to  a  sofa  alongside  them.  Duke 
of  Orleans  hies  him  to  the  opposite  sofa  with  England  and  exer- 

136 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 

cet  actum  de  retro.  Francis  and  Charles  stand  behind  the  couch 
as  expectant  observers  and  manustupratione  se  delectant,  while 
Frederick  rapes  France. 

Act  III 

In  this  scene  Orleans,  Puissaye,  followed  by  the  Englishwomen, 
enter  the  stage  from  the  rear.  Armed  citizens  also  enter  the  rear 
a?id  the  sides.  After  them,  grooms  enter  on  the  right  and  pages 
on  the  left.  The  citizenry  in  battle  formation  take  their  place  in 
therear,thepagesfallonthewomen.  At  the  command  of  the  Duke 
of  Orleans  to  his  satellites  a  stall  slave  comes  forward,  two  others 
approach  from  another  side  and  all  assume  obscene  positions.  In 
the  background  the  Englishwomen  are  seen  with  their  pages; 
presently  the  armed  ones  push  the  pages  aside  and  demonstrate 
the  vice  of  sodomy.  In  the  foreground,  Puissaye  sits  on  his  sofa 
and  attei7ipts  to  rape  Vendee  but  she  struggles  viciously.  Sud- 
denly the  duke  cries  out,  and  all  stop  suddenly,  staring  at  him 
on  his  deathbed.  Vendee  leaves  Puissaye  to  go  to  La  France  but 
Puissaye  kills  her.  The  three  kings  regard  this  scene  with  bent 
arms,  whereby  it  is  clearly  indicated  that  they  regard  with 
equanimity  how  France  dismembers  itself. 

La  France  foutue  is  the  full-grown  flower  of  eroticism,  the  sad- 
ism of  the  ancien  regime  which  completely  expended  itself  on  sex- 
ual perversions  and  was  unable  to  enjoy  anything  other  than  vicious 
erotic  experiences.  According  to  Dr.  Bloch  this  work  derives  from 
the  Marquis  de  Sade,  but  this  is  unlikely  since  he  was  a  thorough 
republican,  while  this  writing  must  have  had  a  royalist  as  its  author. 

Several  additional  theatrical  pieces  of  importance  will  now  be 
considered  but  no  attention  will  be  given  to  the  merely  erotic. 
Our  purpose  is  to  demonstrate  the  diverse  erotic  conditions  which 
affected  the  social  and  historic  life  of  France,  and  to  eliminate  any 
and  everything  obscene  per  se.  If  we  have  toned  down  many  an 
erotic  matter,  it  is  because  we  wish  to  avoid  all  things  unnecessary 

137 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
to  students  of  French  history  and  literature.  We  prefer  to  shoot 
below  the  mark  rather  than  above  it. 

The  piece  Les  plaisirs  du  cloitre,  though  written  for  a  theatre  of 
high  society,  never  was  performed  because  no  actors  could  be  found 
for  some  of  the  parts.  The  roles  of  Agathe  and  Marton  were  easy 
and  desired  by  young  women,  but  Clitandres  and  Jesuits  required 
characters  of  robustness  and  these  could  not  be  found.  The  author 
believed  that  this  dramatic  piece  would  lose  little  in  the  reading 
and  boasted  that  he  had  omitted  every  expression  that  might  give 
offense.  Was  it  such  an  incomprehensible  boast  which  gave  the 
book  a  tremendous  vogue?  In  the  first  act  Marton,  a  novice,  is  read- 
ing an  obscene  book  in  her  cell  and  becomes  greatly  inflamed.  Her 
friend  Agathe  who  has  been  lying  in  wait  comes  to  her  aid,  but  the 
abbess  surprises  them,  confiscates  the  book,  and  sentences  Marton 
to  chastisement. 

In  the  second  act  the  punishment  is  carried  out  and  Marton  gets 
forty  strokes  with  the  lash  upon  her  bare  body.  After  the  flagellation, 
Agathe  hurries  to  her  friend  and  continues  the  discipline  with  her 
hand;  then  both  friends  give  themselves  over  to  sapphic  love.  Agathe 
promises  Marton  a  still  greater  pleasure.  In  the  third  act,  Agathe 
brings  to  her  friend  her  lover  Clitandre  and  a  Jesuit  father,  where- 
upon a  normal  love  scene  ensues.  But  the  Pater  aroused  by  the  sight 
of  the  lovers,  Clitandre  and  Agathe,  cannot  resist  the  temptation  of 
a  pederastic  exercise  with  Marton. 

Another  piece,  Vaste,  attributed  to  Piron,  created  a  sensation  at 
the  time,  but  it  is  of  such  obscenity  that  we  shall  do  no  more  than 
mention  it.  Le  Bourdel  set  up  the  claim  to  moral  effectiveness.  What 
is  better  calculated  to  dissuade  young  people  from  going  to  brothels 
than  a  full  depiction  of  all  the  disagreeable  consequences  likely  to 
result  from  such  a  visit?  To  achieve  this  purpose  the  very  words 
which  are  popular  in  such  places  must  be  used;  and  whoever  writes 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
in  the  style  of  whores  cannot  avoid  such  expressions.  Then  follows 
a  list  of  words  from  the  realm  of  pomology.  After  reading  this  piece 
it  is  hoped  that  those  desiring  to  visit  brothels  will  be  scared  away 
lest  they  lose  their  money,  health  and  honor  as  a  consequence.  This 
piece  contains  many  items  of  interest  for  the  social  historian.  If  one 
is  to  believe  the  following  words,  the  contemporary  moral  police 
were  in  a  pretty  bad  way.  The  police  official  is  represented  as  speak- 
ing to  a  prostitute:  "First  one  needs  money.  Don't  trust  friends. 
They  may  make  it  easier  for  you  to  leave  the  hospital  but  they 
certainly  don't  make  it  harder  for  you  to  enter.  What  you  need 
above  all  are  friends  among  the  police.  How  can  you  have  them? 
With  money,  Mme.  Dru." 

The  piece  closes  in  the  most  edifying  way  with  an  unexpected 
visit  by  the  police  patrol.  The  commissioner  has  all  the  exits  guard- 
ed and  asks  everyone  his  business.  Bel-air  answers:  "Sir,  I  am  a 
soldier  from  Champign.  I  came  to  visit  a  sick  jade  just  as  you 
entered  and  I  give  you  my  word  that  I  would  not  have  come  had 
I  expected  to  find  you  here." 

"I  understand — a  pimp?" 

"Well  now,  commissioner,  the  king  pays  mighty  little,  so  one 
must  try  to  earn  an  extra  penny." 

At  the  conclusion  several  wenches  are  sent  to  Bicetre  and  the 
moral  purpose  is  achieved. 

While  many  of  these  obscene  compositions  may  have  been  in- 
tended for,  and  accessible  to,  the  hoi  polloi,  the  cavaliers  of  the 
court  however  had  their  own  pornographers.The  foremost  of  these 
worldlings  was  the  Duke  Henin  who  was  bom  in  1 744  and  came 
into  an  enormous  fortune  at  the  age  of  twenty-six.  Frivolous  and 
passionate,  he  gave  free  rein  to  his  lusts  and  to  his  affection  for  the 
theatre.  With  unlimited  means  at  his  disposal  he  had  his  own  theatre 
and  retained  his  contemporary,  Delisle  de  Sales,  to  furnish  erotic 

139 


THE  EEOTIC  MISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 
pieces  which  were  collected  into  four  volumes  and  were  formerly 
in  the  possession  of  the  bibliophile  Alfred  Begis.  Henin  is  adduced 
as  a  typical  case  and  his  perverse  tendencies  were  shared  by  many 
others  who  doted  on  obscene  theatricals. 

The  foreword  to  these  works  testifies  to  the  fact  that  these 
sketches  were  really  acted  out.  Antiquity  echoes  with  the  dialogues 
concerning  more  than  merely  free  love  composed  by  Elephantis, 
for  which  professional  artists  drew  pictures  representing  love  in 
every  attitude  the  coarsest  fancy  could  imagine;  and  more  recent 
times  have  contributed  the  dialogues  of  Luisa  Sigea  and  the  sonnets 
of  Aretino.  A  nobleman  and  a  fine  fellow  to  boot,  tired  of  normal 
pleasures,  fitted  out  a  private  theatre  to  which  only  the  roues  of 
his  circle  were  admitted  and  also  those  ladies  of  rank  who  were 
worthy  of  being  courtesans.  These  were  the  saturnalia  of  the  Re- 
gency. Here  were  enacted  quite  frankly  the  priapeia  of  Petronius 
and  the  orgies  of  Latouche.  "On  the  occasion  of  one  festival,"  de 
Sales  says  in  the  foreword,  "I  was  asked  how  to  make  the  last- 
mentioned  daring  play  more  interesting,  and  I  had  the  weakness  to 
explain  that  Socrates  himself  in  this  condition  had  surrendered 
himself  to  the  folly  of  Alcibiades.  Thereafter  there  were  no  secrets 
for  me,  and  I  was  invited  to  refine  the  theatre  so  that  even  a  sage  in 
one  of  the  lodges  could  give  himself  over  to  the  pleasures  of  the  play. 
Four  pieces  of  this  collection:  Juno  and  Ganymede,  the  Virgin  of 
Babylon,  Ccesar  and  the  Vestals,  and  the  Judgment  of  Paris  were 
played  without  change  but  some  of  the  others  were  slightly  altered 
for  the  performance.  At  least  twenty  times  I  thought  of  throwing  in- 
to the  flames  the  piecc,Ninette  and  Finette,'whose  prototypes  I  knew 
but  I  have  kept  it  here  for  a  moral  purpose  to  show  the  dangers  of 
the  little  intimate  theatre,  where  innocence  is  lost  before  the  young 
person  realizes  the  necessity  of  guarding  it." 

One  may  well  ask  what  this  moral  purpose  was,  since  all  the 

140 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
pieces  are  swollen  with  a  scabrousness  so  disgusting  that  we  shall 
not  even  synopsize  the  contents.  Furthermore,  according  to  de 
Sales'  own  confession,  there  was  no  purity  to  be  endangered  since 
only  roues  and  ladies  of  quality  worthy  of  being  courtesans,  were 
admitted.  In  the  first  piece  Juno  seduces  Ganymede,  in  the  second 
there  is  represented  the  devirgination  of  a  Babylonian  girl  by  the 
high  priest  of  the  Temple.  In  the  third,  Caesar  first  ravishes  two 
vestals  but  later  ends  his  performance  like  Onan.  The  last  piece 
Myrza  deals  with  a  pair  of  lovers  who  go  through  a  few  amorous 
spats  with  orgiastic  pantomime,  at  first  in  Sophie's  bath,  and  later 
at  the  Opera  Ball.  The  female  role  was  acted  by  the  celebrated 
Sophie  Arnould,  and  her  lover  by  Grammont,  the  famous  author 
of  the  Memoirs.  The  dialogue  was  so  shocking  that  the  Chevalier 
was  able  to  sing  only  the  first  six  stanzas  and  those  only  under  an 
assumed  name.  The  dialogue  unaccompanied  by  gestures  left  the 
erotic  audience  cold,  but  the  situation  was  far  different  with 
Chevalier  de  Grammont  and  Sophie  Arnould.  Both  finished  their 
lines  in  the  tensest  heat,  and  less  than  an  hour  later  the  Chevalier 
rushed  to  the  actress'  lodgings  where  they  repeated  the  perform- 
ance with  no  omissions,  and  many  repetitions. 

These  thespian  debaucheries  in  the  princely  theatres  soon  began 
to  exercise  public  opinion,  and  after  1779  the  performances  ceased. 
As  long  as  the  scandal  remained  behind  four  walls,  everyone  was 
permitted  to  seek  happiness  in  his  own  fashion,  but  when  the  matter 
became  a  public  concern  the  police  had  to  interfere. 


CHAPTEM  IX 

VENEREAL  VERSES 


THROUGH  undermining  all  ethical  and  religious  sensibility,  the 
last  embers  of  shame  and  decency  were  extinguished.  It  came 
to  a  pass  where  the  strongest  type  of  brothel  poetry,  of  which  there 
was  a  veritable  mass  production,  aroused  hardly  a  ripple  of  criticism. 
Bachaumont  relates  that  it  was  customary  to  bring  the  filles 
d'Opera  couplets  celebrating  their  venereal  talents  and  gallantries. 
These  couplets  were  collected  and  issued  in  form  of  almanacs: 
Etrennes  aux  paillardes,  etrennes  gaillardes,  etrennes  aux  fauteurs. 
Only  once,  in  1763,  were  the  Tablettes  de  paillardes  suppressed, 
but  soon  these  salacious  products  were  afoot  again. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  no  gallant  souper  was  without  the 
spice  of  erotic  verse,  and  frequently  of  the  chansons  that  later  went 
out  into  the  world.  These  almanacs  were  usually  small  gilt-edged, 
coquettishly  appointed  volumes,  provided  with  a  tiny  pencil  and 
a  few  blank  pages  for  memoranda.  The  titles  of  most  give  their 
lewd  contents  away,  though  some  were  much  more  lewd  than 
others.  A  small  Almanac h  dii  Troii-Madames  which  seemed  fairly 
harmless  gave  rise  to  the  most  daring  performances  which  were 
extremely  popular  about  1760  under  the  title  of  Trou-Trou. 

In  this  poetry  Priapus  was  king.  Courtier  and  lowest  of  officials, 
poet  and  poetaster,  all  felt  obligated  to  show  their  reverence  for 
the  sign  of  the  grotesque  god  of  the  garden.  It  was  good  form  to 
represent  in  smooth  verse  the  normal  process  of  copulation  as  some- 

142 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
thing  strange,  as  some  special  discovery  of  the  century.  When  galUc 
wit  was  unable  to  transfigure  this  subject  matter,  the  shamelessly 
prostituted  fantasy  could  at  least  turn  out  quite  ordinary  brothel 
poetry.  There  was  hardly  a  contemporary  author  who  failed  to 
place  his  votive  offering  upon  the  altar  of  the  corporeal  Venus,  and 
almost  every  one  that  pretended  to  the  name  of  poet  composed 
CEuvres  badines. 

A  very  influential  collection  of  these  gallant  songs  and  verse  tales 
is  the  Recueil  de  pieces  choisiespar  les  soins  du  cosmopolite  (1735). 
This  was  the  first  of  these  collections  to  be  printed  in  the  eighteenth 
century,  and  incidentally  the  only  one  of  Jean  Baptiste  Grecourt's 
books  to  be  published  during  his  lifetime  (168 3- 1743).  The  book- 
let was  put  together  by  Princess  Conti  and  Pater  Vinet  at  the  castle 
of  the  Duke  de  Arguillon,  and  contains  epigrams  from  many 
sources.  Grecourt  is  the  prototype  of  the  gallant  Abbe.  At  the 
tender  age  of  thirteen  he  became  a  priest,  but  soon  lost  his  living 
because  his  sermons,  which  described  vice  in  the  most  natural 
colors,  and  his  predilection  for  satire  which  he  indulged  unrestrain- 
edly, aroused  more  evil  than  induced  edification.  He  lived  in  the 
friendliest  relationship  with  the  Marshal  d'Estrees  and  the  Duke 
de  Arguillon  whom  he  kept  amused  with  his  peppery  jokes.  The 
first  edition  of  Grecourt's  fugitive  works,  none  of  which,  except 
the  above-mentioned  collection,  would  have  been  preserved  had  it 
not  been  for  the  copies  made  by  his  friend  de  Lassere  shortly  before 
the  former's  death,  appeared  in  1 747  as  the  CEuvres  badines. 

It  was  a  thankful  and  lucrative  task,  this  compiling  of  erotic 
anthologies,  and  many  famous  figures  occupied  themselves  with  it 
including  Count  Caylus  the  renowned  archaeologist,  Parny,  and 
others.  Related  to  this  type  of  gay  effort  in  name,  but  quite  different 
in  essence,  is  Sylvain  Marechal's  Alma7iach  des  sonjietes  fe?mnes 
de  la  Societe  Joyeuse.  In  this  wide-spread  and  frequently  reprinted 

143 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FKANCE 
livret  of  but  thirty-two  pages,  one  hundred  women  are  mercilessly 
censured. 

Despite  its  eroticism  it  occupies  so  important  a  place  in  French 
literature  because  of  its  notorious  influence,  that  it  merits  a  brief 
examination.  The  "Joyous  Society" — which  by  the  way  actually 
existed — is  indignant  because  the  almanacs  have  been  appearing 
annually,  had  not  paid  sufficient  and  exclusive  attention  to  the  fair 
sex.  This  omission  was  now  to  be  rectified.  The  saints  are  to  be 
dethroned  since  no  one  pays  any  attention  to  them  today;  and  in 
their  stead  shall  be  elevated  the  great  heroines  of  love.  January  is 
henceforth  the  month  of  the  Fricatrices.  Not  all  ladies  are  fitted 
for  this  exercise.  It  requires  a  fine  white  hand  and  a  long  and  narrow 
finger.  The  feast  of  circumcision  on  January  first  is  to  be  the 
Festival  of  the  Foreskin.  Many  nations  observe  the  custom  of  re- 
moving something  from  the  organ,  but  lovely  womankind  doesn't 
approve  of  that  subtractive  rite.  February  is  dedicated  to  the 
Trictatrices.  The  second  day  of  the  month,  Mary's  purification, 
is  to  be  known  as  the  Festival  of  the  Bidets.  Cleanliness  was  law 
among  the  ancient  Hebrews  and  the  Romans.  Why  not  follow 
this  praiseworthy  custom  with  the  choice  of  bidets.  March  is  to  be 
the  month  of  Fellatrices.  Of  all  forms  of  passion,  this  is  to  be 
striven  for  most  highly  and  consists  of  sucer  le  gland  de  son  amant. 
Few  women  are  able  to  bring  themselves  to  this  form  of  love;  but 
such  lovers  are  constant.  March  twenty-fifth,  the  Annunciation,  is 
now  to  be  the  Festival  of  the  Procurers.  This  change  does  no  vi- 
olence to  our  worthy  religion  because  the  whole  world  knows  that 
the  holy  Gabriel  was  the  love  messenger  of  the  holy  spirit. 

The  almanac  now  mentions  four  mondaines  who  had  given 
themselves  to  fellatio.  April  is  reserved  for  Lesbians.  In  Lesbia  girls 
were  accounted  virtuous  when  they  bore  no  children..  May  is  the 
month  of  the  Corinthians.  These  lovely  women  multiply  the  delight 

M4 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
of  the  men  they  love.  Whatever  way  he  caresses  them  he  will 
always  find  new  sensations.  June  belongs  to  the  Samians  renowned 
for  their  debaucheries.  July  to  the  Phoenicians,  who  refined  the  art 
of  gamahucher.  August  is  the  month  of  Syphiasans  (one  of  the 
Cyclades)  who  had  very  lazy  men.  In  order  to  excite  them  their 
women  inserted  their  little  fingers  into  la  porte  poste  of  their  men, 
the  practice  known  today  as  diligence  or  postilion.  September  is 
reserved  for  the  Phisidisseusans  whose  contention  it  was  that  men 
were  not  the  only  ones  who  had  been  created  to  give  pleasure.  They 
trembled  at  the  approach  of  a  vigorous  man  and  much  preferred 
the  delicate  tongue  of  a  lapdog.  October  goes  to  the  Chalcidians 
who  employ  young,  innocent  children,  November  is  the  month 
for  tribady.  December  is  assigned  to  the  Hircineans  (from  hircus) 
who  go  in  for  peeping  (voyeuses).  December  eighth  is  the  Feast  of 
lost  Virginity;  and  December  twenty-fifth,  the  Feast  of  the  Cuckold, 
after  the  holy  Joseph.  The  livret  closes  with  the  significant  request 
that  readers  contribute  suggestions  for  the  improvement  and  com- 
pletion of  this  calendar.  Such  were  the  worlds  at  the  time! 

Most  notorious,  because  of  its  disgusting  shamelessness  and  vile 
blasphemy,  is  Piron's  Ode  to  Priapus  in  sixteen  strophes  which  is 
found  in  almost  all  the  contemporary  anthologies.  Alexis  Piron 
( 1 689- 1 77 3)  found  fame  at  a  very  early  age  through  this  ode.  Later 
his  occasional  verse,  rhymed  epistles,  tales  and  epigrams,  all  dis- 
tinguished by  a  caustic  wit  and  amazing  skill  in  discovering  peo- 
ple's weaknesses,  and  last  but  not  least  by  their  shameless  tone, 
brought  him  numerous  admirers  and  friends.  Piron  who  was  "noth- 
ing, not  even  an  Academician",  failed  to  achieve  a  place  in  the 
French  Pantheon  through  the  disfavor  of  Louis  xiv,  and  not  because 
the  other  immortals  didn't  recognize  his  wit  or  objected  to  his  Ode. 
Fontenelle,  with  characteristic  impartiality,  said:  "Piron,  having 
composed  the  Ode,  we  may  be  wroth  with  him;  but  Piron  without 

145 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
the  Ode — well,  we  would  shut  our  doors  against  him."  And  Presi- 
dent Bouhier  said  to  the  author:  "If  someone  throws  the  authorship 
of  this  piece  up  to  you,  you  should  reply  calmly,  'I  was  the  author' " 
Yet  all  his  life  his  Ode  to  Priapus  hindered  his  progress.  Protest  as  he 
might  against  the  attacks  of  his  enemies,  point  as  he  might  to  his 
blameless  life  and  irreproachable  morals,  it  was  in  vain.  He  was  a 
malicious  satirist  and  did  not  spare  himself  either. 

The  following  anecdote  is  characteristic.  One  day  Piron,  an  old 
man  now  blind,  went  for  a  stroll  with  his  little  niece.  Men  see- 
ing them  laughed,  and  the  little  girl  informed  her  uncle  that  the 
laughter  was  due  to  a  certain  irregularity  in  his  clothes.  "Uncle," 
she  whispered,  "everyone  is  gaping  at  us .  .  .  won't  you  please  cover 
your.  .  .  your  history". 

"Dear  child,"  spoke  the  poet,  "this  history  has  long  become  fab- 
ulous". 

His  own  characterization  of  himself  is  concise  and  telling.  "The 
fury  of  an  ape  and  the  simphcity  of  the  child;  a  wit-drenched  spirit 
and  a  golden  heart;  that  is  Piron". 


# 


4* 
CHAPTER  X 

SECRET  CLUBS  AND  PERVERSIONS 


THERE  has  been  no  distinction  drawn  until  now  between  those 
authors  who  luxuriated  in  the  domain  of  normal  love,  and 
those  whose  minds  and  writings  were  obsessed  by  unnatural  and 
perverse  sexual  activity.  This  would  have  led  to  difficulties  and 
repetition,  for  hardly  a  single  work  confined  itself  to  describing 
the  natural  act  alone;  rather  did  everyone  of  them  drag  in  the  ac- 
companying expressions  of  the  libido  sexualis  for  their  share  of 
vivid  expositions.  Even  the  Cloister  porter  and  its  echoes,  cannot 
be  regarded  as  merely  pederastic  tales. 

Voisenon  wrote  a  book  against  bigotry  and  cant  entitled:  The 
exercises  of  Devotion  of  M.  Roch  with  M?ne.  Condor,  which,  his 
contemporaries  added,  had  better  be  entitled  The  Devotion  with 
Respect  to  the  front  and  rump  of  Mme.  C.  He  wrote  this  story  for 
the  amusement  of  his  young  girl  friend,  whom  he  laid  down  beside 
him  to  warm  him  as  King  David  had  done  of  old.  He  always  slept 
side  by  side  with  her  and  permitted  her  to  remain  virgin.  In  witty 
and  caustic  fashion  hypocrisy  and  bigotry  are  flayed.  There  is  a 
dialogue  (in  bed)  between  a  Tartuffe  and  a  young  woman  who 
has  been  married  to  an  elderly  husband.  These  worthy  descendants 
of  Tartuffe  are  always  with  us  and  under  the  pretext  of  combating 
the  call  of  the  flesh  these  hypocrites  indulge  in  the  vilest  debauch- 
eries. Here's  an  example.  The  good  woman  launches  into  the  fol- 
lowing edifying  discourse  to — her  pious  friend. 

147 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 

"When  I  have  my  attacks  I  am  greatly  to  be  pitied  and  without 
your  generosity  I  would  probably  have  died — and  without  sacra- 
ments too.  God  himself  has  brought  me  to  you  in  order  that  you 
may  help  me  with  my  devotional  exercises  today.  He  could  not  let  me 
die  before  I've  confessed,  I  thank  Him  and  you  for  that.  May  I  ask 
you  for  another  favor,  Mr.  Roch?  You  see  these  attacks  come  upon 
me  six  or  seven  times  and  the  last  are  always  stronger  than  the  first. 
Isn't  there  anything. . .  .1  am  confident  that  I  can  get  rid  of  them 

if Oh,  if  it  isn't  too  much  trouble  may  I  ask  you  to  give  me 

the  remedy,  for  the  third  time.  In  order  to  drive  away  every 
thought  of  sin  and  prohibited  pleasure  I  shall  do  the  following.  I 
shall  now  imagine  that  my  husband  is  doing  the  work  of  God  in 
my  garden,  for  the  sake  of  my  recovery.  And  when  you  have 
completed  my  cure  we  will  renew  our  devotional  exercises,  we 
will  read  a  second  spiritual  lecture  and  pray  a  while  in  silence. 

While  Madame  was  speaking,  Mr.  Roch  had  enveloped  her  and 
begun  the  work  of  God.  As  soon  as  it  was  ended  Madame  came  to 
life  again  and  asked:  "Without  appearing  too  curious,  could  you 
inform  me  what  is  the  name  of  that  which  cures  me". 

"It's  called  my  heart". 

"What?  That  is  your  heart?  I  had  never  believed  it.  O  dear  sir, 
how  surely  your  heart  has  been  created  for  mine.  I  assure  you  that 
were  our  hearts  forever  united,  I  would  never  be  ill. . . ."  etc. 

This  Abbe  Claude  Henri  de  Voisenon  (i 708-1 775)  had  ability 
to  treat  the  most  trying  themes  with  graceful  charm,  and  composed 
numerous  erotic  works.  His  Erotic  Fairy  Tales  are  masterpieces  of 
genial  and  piquant  gallantry.  His  friend  Favoit  relates  that  his  life 
was  unexceptionable,  and  that  he  wrote  these  pieces  to  please  his 
friends.  As  executrix  of  his  will,  he  appointed  the  clever  Countess 
Turpin  de  Crisse,  chairwoman  of  the  gallant  society,  Societe  de  la 
Table  Ronde,  and  directed  her  to  publish  his  manuscripts.  This  task 

148 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
the  gallant  lady  accepted  and  carried  out  without  any  prudishness 
or  fear  of  scandal. 

If  it  is  true  that  the  most  popular  erotic  works  gave  equal  atten- 
tion to  all  types  of  sexual  activity,  natural  or  perverse,  it  is  no  less 
true  that  certain  of  these  writings  "specialized",  i.e.,  gave  particular 
attention  and  emphasis  to  certain  types  of  abnormal  sexual  practises. 
Thus  the  vice  of  tribady  was  extolled  by  two  works,  Uhistoire  de  la 
secte  anandryne  and  the  very  popular  Vapologue  de  la  secte  anan- 
dryne.  The  latter  work  is  the  story  of  a  15  year  old  girl  who  falls 
into  the  hands  of  the  infamous  panderess  Mme.  Gourdan  and  is 
conveyed  to  a  lady  of  rank.  Thus  Mile.  Sappho  is  inducted  into 
a  circle  of  lesbians  who  celebrate  their  mysterious  rites  in  a  temple 
constructed  for  the  purpose,  and  who  at  the  same  time  satisfy  their 
debauched  desires.  The  book  ends  with  a  detailed  address  delivered 
by  the  actress  Raucourt  in  praise  of  Lesbian  love,  an  address  re- 
plete with  the  most  informative  material  on  that  theme.  The  society 
referred  to  in  this  novel  actually  existed  and  was  one  of  the  numerous 
clubs  in  contemporary  Paris  dedicated  to  the  realization  of  erotic 
fantasies  and  the  satisfaction  of  strange  lusts.  These  clubs  will  be  dis- 
cussed presently. 

It  was  quite  natural  that  an  age  in  which  love  really  was  or  was 
only  regarded  as  the  foremost  thing  in  life,  should  create  manuals 
for  the  best  possible  use  of  this  joy.  It  was  really  as  Abbe  Galiani 
said:  one  loved  with  the  head  not  with  the  heart;  and  love  for  these 
people  was  the  libertinage  de  la  pensee.  In  it  one  realized  the  glow- 
ing dreams  of  an  imagination  artificially  stimulated;  hence  love  was 
debased  to  an  exciting  game.  Ovid  was  master,  and  La  Mettrie 
wrote  his  UArt  de  jouir  in  conscious  derivation.  His  essential  thesis 
is  that  the  highest  that  man  can  achieve  is  corporeal  pleasure.  Since 
the  supposed  spirituality  of  man  is  founded  on  the  body,  we  can 
only  strive  after  bodily  happiness.  It  were  infantile  to  forego  plea- 

149 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FKANCE 
sures  or  regret  past  joys  because  of  the  soul  which  is  notoriously 
untrustworthy.  Passionate  desire  stands  in  the  first  place  not  be- 
cause it  is  the  only  one  but  because  it  is  the  most  general;  and 
spiritual  desire  must  be  subordinated  to  the  corporeal.  It  is  not  reason 
which  is  antipathetic  to  happiness  or  lust,  but  prejudices.  There 
is  no  absolute  virtue;  all  is  relative  to  society;  the  only  difference 
bet\\'een  good  and  evil  is  that  in  one  case  the  public  interest  predom- 
inates, and  in  the  other  the  private  interest  has  conquered  the 
general. 

The  greatest  success  in  this  field  of  the  manuals  of  love  was 
scored  by  Gentil-Bemard  (17 10-1775)  with  his  Uart  cf aimer.  For 
twenty  years  the  salons  of  Paris  heard  his  low  and  seductive  voice 
read  fragments  of  his  poetry,  and  women  listened  with  rapture  to 
his  orgiastic  verse.  Voltaire  wrote  him  an  enthusiastic  letter.  Pomp- 
adour invited  him  to  her  soupers  and  commissioned  him  to  compose 
pieces  for  her  amateur  theatre.  When  his  Art  of  Love  was  pub- 
lished in  1 775  Bernard  had  already  fallen  prey  to  mental  illness. 

The  art  purveyed  in  these  and  other  propaedeutics  of  copulation 
was  not  to  be  merely  book  learning.  Societies  were  formed  to  carry 
out  the  doctrines  thus  learnt;  and  if  one  desired  consciously  to  cul- 
tivate "love"  and  ecstasy,  one  joined  one  of  these  clubs.  The  most 
famous  societes  (V amour  were: 

i).  UAcademie  de  ces  Dames  et  de  ces  Messieurs,  founded  by 
Count  Caylus  to  bring  before  the  public  the  facetiae  and  serious 
works  of  the  passionate  muse.  Among  the  members  were  Count 
Tressan,  Duclos,  Vade  and  Count  Maurepas.  Their  secretary,  under 
the  pseudonym  of  Vade,  has  left  us  the  constitution  and  history  of  the 
order.  Although  the  literary  products  of  this  order  are  very  frivol- 
ous and  free,  especially  of  the  feminine  members,  they  lack  attic 
salt  too  utterly  to  be  appropriate  for  our  taste.  Even  the  talented 

150 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
members  somehow  didn't  do  their  best  here,  as  for  example, 
Crebillon  flls.  In  1776  the  group  died  a  quiet  death. 

2).  Another  society  La  Paroisse,  met  regularly  at  the  home  of 
Mme,  Doublet  de  Persan  who  lived  such  a  retired  life  after  the 
death  of  her  husband  that  for  40  years  she  never  ventured  outdoors. 
Into  her  home  she  received  the  most  distinguished  and  witty  great 
ones  of  her  day,  as  well  as  the  loveliest  women.  Bachaumont  was  the 
president.  From  this  circle  there  first  issued  the  Nouvelles  a  la  main, 
so  called  because  they  could  only  be  read  with  one  hand.  These 
tales  were  put  on  public  sale,  and  contained  such  racy  and  wanton 
tales  in  verse  and  prose  that  they  were  prohibited  in  1852.  It  was 
from  this  group  that  Bachaumont  gathered  the  materials  for  his 
Memoires  secrets. 

3).  Certain  societies  like  the  Order  and  Society  of  the  Hose,  the 
Bee,  the  Anacreontic  Society  of  Rosate,  and  the  Valmiise  were  in- 
nocuous clubs  devoted  to  the  reverence  of  beauty,  woman,  and  pla- 
tonic  love.  The  Order  of  Felicity,  whose  history  was  written  by 
Voisenon,  went  in  for  much  more  realistic  private  pleasures. 

4).  The  most  famous  of  all  these  clubs  is  undoubtedly  the  Les 
Aphrodites  whose  history,  constitution  and  feasts,  Nerciat  has 
voluminously  recorded  in  his  pornographic  novel  of  the  same  title. 
If  he  is  to  be  believed,  the  club  lasted  for  20  years,  and  during  that 
time  had  4959  members,  about  260  a  year.  All  classes  were  rep- 
resented, from  the  grand  seigneur  to  the  simplest  soldier,  but  the 
mode  of  reception  was  not  so  easy  and  quite  costly.  Every  member 
paid  an  admission  fee,  of  course,  and  gave  the  society  a  gift,  in 
keeping  with  his  circumstances.  In  addition  he  had  to  deposit 
10,000  livres  for  himself  and  5,000  for  his  female  partner,  since 
women  were  admitted  without  charge.  This  money  was  kept  at 
5%  interest  and  if  a  member  left  the  club,  the  principle  was 
returned.  At  the  time  the  club  was  dissolved,  during  the  revolution, 

151 


THE  EBOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FEANCE 
it  had  a  fortune  of  4,558,923  livres,  which  was  removed  from  France. 
The  purpose  of  the  society  was  the  cultivation  of  passion  in  every 
form — and  about  this  Nerciat  gives  us  very  detailed  information. 

5).  Certain  clubs  were  devoted  to  particular  perversions.  Thus, 
lesbian  love  was  the  raison  d'etre  of  the  club  of  the  Anandrynes 
whereof  Pidausat  treats  thoroughly  in  his  English  Spy.  Pederasty 
was  the  specialty  of  the  Guebres  and  the  Arracheurs  de  palissar- 
des,  whose  constitutions  committed  them  to  eschew  women.  There 
was  also  a  society  of  hermaphrodites,  to  which  Voisenon  belonged, 
and  many  other  types.  Thus  the  Duchess  of  Gesvre  was  the  head 
of  the  Medusa  order  whose  membership  was  confined  to  high-bom 
ladies.  Their  cult  seats  were  decorated  with  statues  of  Priapus, 
Apollo  and  Sappho  together,  and  other  symbols  of  sexual  pleasure. 
The  ill-famed  and  horrible  Society  of  the  friends  of  crime,  whose 
organization  is  treated  in  Sade's  Juliette,  had  its  own  seraglio  of 
boys  and  girls,  and  even  its  own  zoological  garden  in  order  to  do 
justice  to  all  tastes. 

These  and  many  other  clubs,  devoted  to  the  culture  of  the  senses, 
were  clearly  portrayed  by  a  contemporary,  Vicomte  de  Varause, 
in  his  Lewd  Sisters.  The  prospectus  to  a  translation  of  this  work 
published  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago,  states  that  this  writer  was  born 
in  the  country  about  1750  to  an  impoverished  nobleman.  Thanks 
to  the  efforts  of  his  aunt,  one  of  the  many  mistresses  of  King  Louis 
XIV,  he  became  a  page  at  court.  The  way  seemed  to  be  clear  for 
advancement,  but  alas!  he  was  caught  with  one  of  the  young 
favorites  of  the  king.  All  his  dreams  of  happiness,  wealth  and  fame 
were  dispelled  and  he  was  sentenced,  lightly  enough,  to  a  place  in 
a  line  regiment.  This  was  a  very  fortunate  blow  for  it  saved  him 
from  the  storms  of  the  revolution  which  sent  so  many  of  his  friends 
to  the  guillotine,  or  compelled  them  to  live  in  ignominious  exile. 
He  rose  to  the  position  of  lieutenant  but  was  severely  wounded  in 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
the  battle  at  Valmy,  and  one  of  his  legs  was  shattered.  After  a  pro- 
tracted sickness  he  regained  some  measure  of  health,  but  emerged 
a  cripple.  He  entered  a  Benedictine  cloister  at  Rheims  but  his  mem- 
ories gave  him  no  respite.  Finally  he  had  to  write  them  down.  He 
never  loses  his  poise  and  at  the  wildest  leaps  of  his  imagination  ever 
remains  the  elegant,  clever  man  of  hyper-refined  culture.  In  the 
highest  moments  of  happiness  his  lovers  still  use  the  polite  address. 
Unfortunately  he  died  in  1806.  This  whole  account  sounds  very 
credible,  and  reproduces  eighteenth-century  club-life  amazingly, 
but  it  seems  unfortunately  untrue.  All  the  exhaustive  French  biog- 
raphers and  bibliographers  report  absolutely  nothing  about  this 
writer,  which  would  be  strange  indeed  in  the  case  of  so  important 
a  work.  Hence  we  are  forced  to  the  conclusion  that  we  are  dealing 
here  with  a  hoax  on  the  part  of  the  publisher,  or  perhaps  the  author. 
Actually,  the  French  original  is  not  known  before  1891  which  is 
possibly  the  original  date  of  publication. 


CHAPTEM  XI 

CELEBRATED  PORNOLOGISTS 


VIVANT  DENON 


o 


F  WHAT  grace  the  gallant  age  was  able  to  write  is  witnessed  by 
the  delightful  tale  of  Vivant  Denon  entitled  Point  de  Lend- 
emain.  This  tale,  it  is  said,  owes  its  rise  to  an  interesting  incident. 
In  1775,  while  the  author  was  at  the  French  court,  it  was  asserted 
in  his  presence  that  no  one  could  write  an  authentic  love  story 
without  using  smutty  words.  Denon  was  of  a  different  opinion, 
and  in  a  few  days  he  read  his  story  to  them.  It  said  everything  and 
didn't  offend  good  taste  in  any  way.  This  anecdote  need  not  be 
taken  too  seriously  for  the  same  story  is  related  concerning  Musset's 
Gamiani  and  Cleland's  Fanny  Hill.  Denon's  friend  Dorat  to  whom 
he  sent  these  poems  and  who  published  them  in  the  year  of  his 
death,  enjoyed  some  reputation  as  the  author  of  a  pedantic  though 
frivolous  work  on  kisses,  which  leaves  us  rather  cold  today.  The 
same  is  somewhat  true  of  Montesquieu's  Temple  de  Gnide  which, 
according  to  the  author,  was  written  in  honor  of  the  Princess  de 
Clermont  and  after  one  of  her  ideas,  without  any  further  aim  than 
to  draw  a  poetic  picture  of  passion.  The  direct  causes  of  the  com- 
position were  a  heart  affair  and  the  reading  of  Fenelon's  Telema- 
chus.  Montesquieu  secured  royal  permission  and  in  1775  it  was 
published  anonymously  in  prose  and  purported  to  be  a  translation 
from  the  Greek.  But  the  stuff  is  of  such  a  nature  that  it  can  only 
be  properly  valued  by  powdered  and  curled  heads.  The  Abbe 

154 


BOOK  III;  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
Voisenon  reported  that  the  effusion  brought  its  author  numerous 
loves  which  he  was  wise  enough  to  conceal. 

Grimm,  the  friend  of  Diderot  and  of  the  philosophers,  criticised 
these  monotonous  pastorals  very  unfavorably  and  perhaps  he  was 
thinking  of  Diderot's  smart  Bijoux  indiscrets  which  was  of  an  alto- 
gether different  order  than  the  insipid  poetry  of  shepherds.  Diderot 
felt  impelled  to  deny  his  authorship  of  the  Bijoux  but  no  one  else 
could  have  written  this  master  work,  which  no  less  a  personage  than 
Lessing  had  translated  into  German.  The  book  owes  its  origin  to  a 
chat  held  by  the  author  with  Mme.  de  Puisieux.  The  scabrous 
novels  of  Crebillon  fils  were  being  discussed  when  Diderot  asserted 
that  this  stuff  was  easy,  for  once  one  had  a  pleasing  foundation, 
everything  else  depended  on  the  execution.  The  others  doubted 
his  opinion,  so  Diderot  went  home  and  set  to  work.  In  a  fortnight 
the  Bijoux  were  done  and  he  had  won  50  louis  d'or.  It  is  not  im- 
possible that  Diderot  was  strongly  influenced  by  a  panurgic  work 
which  had  appeared  as  early  as  1747  under  the  amazing  title:  The 
cavalier  who  could  make  vulvce  speak. 

The  contents  may  be  briefly  summarized  thus.  In  the  kingdom 
of  the  Congo  lives  the  Sultan,  Mongogul,  in  the  friendliest  relations 
with  his  favorite  wife,  Mirzopa.  But  despite  his  success  in  love,  ennui 
overcomes  him  and  he  turns  to  the  demon,  Kukufa,  who  has  often 
been  of  help  to  his  house.  From  him  he  obtains  a  ring  which  possesses 
the  extraordinary  quality  that  it  can  make  the  jewel  of  every  wo- 
man speak  as  soon  as  a  stone  inserted  into  the  ring  is  turned  upon  it. 
At  the  same  time  the  ring  makes  the  bearer  invisible.  Mongogul 
finds  great  pleasure  in  the  ring  for  a  whole  series  of  women  sur- 
render their  secrets  to  him.  The  Sultan  duly  reports  this  to  his 
Mirzopa,  and  both  use  the  knowledge  thus  won  to  criticize  con- 
temporary morals,  which  are  sad  enough.  None  of  the  solicited 
women  has  ever  stood  the  test,  and  all  their  jewels  have  been  tar- 

155 


^ 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
nished.  The  Sultan  promises  his  favorite  a  castle  and  a  little  baboon 
that  she  desires  very  strongly,  if  only  he  will  be  able  to  find  one 
faithful  woman  at  the  court.  Soon  he  has  the  opportunity  of  test- 
ing his  theories.  His  beloved  falls  into  a  severe  fit  of  cramps  and 
the  sultan  in  great  curiosity  hastens  to  turn  his  stone  upon  her 
jewel,  but  this  remains  silent.  Whereupon  the  Sultan  realizes  with 
immense  glee  that  she  is  the  only  faithful  woman  at  the  court. 

One  can  see  from  this  brief  synopsis  that  the  Bijoux  is  not  really 
a  novel  but  a  loose  enchainment  of  realistic  tales,  a  gallery  of  the 
most  diverse  varieties  of  the  female  nature.  The  chill,  fiery,  gallant, 
coquettish,  passionate,  tender,  moody,  and  constant  are  drawn  with 
psychological  exactness.  The  hypocrisy,  intrigue,  cunning,  dissimu- 
lation, wantonness,  and  insatiability  of  women  are  illustrated  in  a 
thousand  piquant  lives.  We  can  read  between  the  lines  that  women 
can  be  moved  by  self-seeking,  pleasure  and  vanity,  but  not  a  word 
can  be  said  in  defense  of  her  love  and  fidelity.  Diderot  did  not  for- 
get to  satirize  Platonic  love  and  could  not  desist  from  touching  on 
the  aberrations  of  the  sexual  libido.  The  sapphic  love  of  Fricamone 
to  Acaris,  the  inclination  of  Haria  to  her  dogs,  the  sodomy  of  a 
Pasha,  cast  their  murky  and  repulsive  shadow  over  the  comic  lights 
which  generally  play  in  these  cynical  anecdotes.  Diderot  seeks  to 
satisfy  bourgeois  justice  by  having  marital  infidelity  in  the  Congo 
punishable  by  the  forcible  subtraction  from  the  sinner  of  the  sinful 
member,  which  generally  brings  death  in  its  wake. 

Diderot's  work  was  impelled  by  the  Horatian  ridendo  dicere 
verum,  and  for  this  purpose  he  employs  comic  and  fantastic  el- 
ements as  well  as  humor.  But  his  satire  leaves  the  modern  reader 
unmoved;  for  Diderot  possesses  neither  the  force  of  an  Aris- 
tophanes nor  the  healthy  joy  of  Rabelais,  nor  the  seductive  frivolity 
of  Crebillon.  One  recognizes  the  thinker  and  the  savant  through 
many  pedantic  and  doctrinaire  undertones.  Diderot  never  abandons 

156 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
a  certain  standard  of  decency,  save  in  the  confession  of  the  travel- 
ling jewel  of  Cypria.  Strong  as  the  work  is  in  imaginary  power,  it  is 
very  poor  poetry.  Diderot  later  denied  this  child  of  his  muse,  and 
regretted  having  composed  it. 

In  1796  there  appeared  La  Religieuse  (the  Nun)  based  on  an 
actual  event.  A  nun  was  coerced  into  breaking  her  vows.  The 
Marquis  de  Croismare  of  the  Encyclopaedist's  circle  interested  him- 
self in  her  welfare.  Later  owing  to  family  circumstances  he  retired 
to  his  country  seat.  His  friends  desiring  his  return,  cooked  up  the 
story  that  the  nun  had  escaped  from  the  cloister  and  stood  in  need 
of  his  help. 

What  has  given  the  book  its  odium  is  its  representation  of  tri- 
badic  scenes  between  the  nun  and  the  mother  superior.  But  with 
what  tenderness  has  Diderot  approached  his  task!  Nothing  lewd 
or  obscene  is  contained  in  it.  Diderot  ever  remembers  that  it  is  a 
girl,  in  whose  name  he  is  writing,  one  who  has  only  a  vague  pre- 
monition of  the  vice  that  is  threatening  to  engulf  her.  He  only  per- 
mits her  to  go  far  enough  to  make  us  realize  the  extent  of  the  danger. 
One  feels  that  his  whole  interest  is  on  the  side  of  the  persecuted 
nun,  whose  whole  sin  lay  in  her  being  nothing  more  than  a  woman. 
This,  however,  she  is  prevented  from  being;  and  Diderot  depicts 
with  high  gusto  and  disgust  the  infamy  of  the  attempts  to  divert 
the  natural  sexual  life  of  the  girl  into  unnatural  channels. 

The  third  of  Diderot's  stories  belonging  to  this  class  is  Jacques 
the  Fatalist,  written  about  1772,  a  collection  of  tales  contained  and 
held  together  by  the  story  of  the  narrator,  A  master  and  his  ser- 
vant tell  each  other  of  their  love  adventures,  which  are  frivolous 
but  not  in  the  sense  of  libertinage.  Nevertheless,  the  book  was 
declared  lewd.  Diderot  defended  himself  against  this  charge  of 
obscenity  and  took  a  fling  at  the  practise  of  permitting  to  the 

157 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
ancients  what  is  forbidden  to  the  moderns.  But  in  this  apologia  his 
expression  became  more  offensive  than  the  story  had  been. 

VOLTAIRE 

It  was  the  Maid  of  Orleans  which  made  Voltaire's  name  known 
to  every  pious  churchman.  The  work  was  composed  in  sections 
and  at  first  the  early  poems  circulated  only  among  his  friends,  in 
more  or  less  complete  copies.  The  wider  public  was  introduced  to 
the  work  in  1751.  While  Voltaire  was  staying  at  Rome  the  manu- 
script was  stolen  and  came  into  the  wrong  hands,  for  in  the  same 
year  there  appeared  the  first  unauthorized  edition.  Another  un- 
authorized edition  followed  and  Voltaire  made  vociferous  denial 
of  his  authorship.  However,  in  1762  he  authorized  an  edition  pro- 
vided with  20  copper  plates  and  in  it  he  toned  down  the  most  im- 
proper passages;  for  instance,  he  now  had  the  maid  keep  her 
pucelage  until  the  capture  of  Orleans,  and  only  then  offer  it  up  on 
the  altar  of  victory. 

The  poem  opens  with  a  very  intimate  description  of  the  erotic 
connection  between  King  Charles  and  Agnes  Sorel.  While  both  are 
living  in  their  idyl  of  love,  France  is  being  devastated  by  England 
who  has  already  arrived  at  the  gates  of  Orleans.  Now  the  patron 
saint  of  France,  Saint  Dionysus  waxes  indignant  over  the  sloth  of 
Charles  and  riding  upon  a  sunbeam  enters  the  terror-stricken  muni- 
cipal council,  as  they  are  considering  plans  to  cope  with  the  im- 
minent dangers.  He  assures  them  that  just  as  France  had  been 
brought  into  the  present  plight  by  a  woman,  so  they  will  be  saved 
by  a  virgin;  but  they  are  incredulous  and  laugh  him  out  of  coun- 
tenance. In  high  dudgeon  he  departs  on  his  sunbeam. 

Voltaire  now  introduces  us  to  Jeanne  d'Arc,  the  fruit  of  an 
idyllic  hour  between  a  monk  and  a  peasant  woman.  An  English 

158 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
itinerant  friar,  Dom  Grisbourdon,  who  was  an  adept  at  magic,  and 
learnt  from  Sybilline  books  that  France's  destiny  depended  on 
Jeanne's  virginity.  Hence  he  immediately  decides  to  obtain  this 
precious  prize,  and  his  decision  is  shared  by  his  rival,  an  ass  driver. 
To  this  end  he  causes  Jeanne  to  fall  asleep,  uncovers  her,  and  pre- 
pares to  snatch  her  prize;  but  while  the  rivals  are  bickering  about 
priority,  St.  Dionysus  comes  ariding  and  they  flee.  The  girl  awakes, 
covers  herself  again,  and  is  provided  by  the  saint  with  historic 
weapoiis  and  launched  upon  her  historic  mission.  To  complete 
matters  Dionysus  bewitches  a  winged  donkey  which  she  is  to  bring 
to  King  Charles.  They  come  upon  the  English  first,  and  get  to  the 
tent  of  the  enemy  general,  Hans  Chandos,  whose  sword  and  trou- 
sers she  steals,  not  before  making  a  few  drawings  on  the  exposed 
hind  parts  of  a  handsome  page.  To  Charles  she  comes  and  the 
Saint  spurs  him  on  so  that  he  becomes  very  bellicose  when  he 
hears  what  sort  of  treasure  Jeanne  owns.  The  latter  is  examined 
by  the  king's  physicians  and  her  reputation  sustained.  Now  the 
battle  can  begin. 

After  a  few  sorties  against  philosophy  and  the  clergy,  Voltaire 
describes  Agnes'  grief  at  her  lover's  desertion.  She  sets  out  in  the 
company  of  Bonneau  to  pursue  Charles,  and  in  the  meantime  stops 
off  at  the  inn  where  Jeanne  is  tarrying.  Here  she  steals  Charles'  trou- 
sers and  Jeanne's  armor.  Bedizened  in  this  heavy  armor  she  is  cap- 
tured by  the  Britons  and  led  before  Chandos,  who  strips  her  of  his 
trousers  and  wants  to  ravish  her  naked,  when  Jeanne  storms  into 
the  hostile  camp.  The  Englishmen  suffer  a  crushing  defeat,  but 
Jeanne  and  the  hero  Dunois  in  their  martial  fury  become  separated 
from  the  rest,  and  find  themselves  alone.  Suddenly  a  little  dog  ap- 
pears and  leads  them  to  a  fairy  place  inhabited  by  a  monster  who  is 
man  by  day  and  woman  by  night.  Conculix,  for  that  is  his  name, 
lives  only  for  passion  and  he  seeks  in  vain  to  have  his  dual  lusts 

159 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FRANCE 
gratified  by  either  or  both  his  guests.  Out  of  revenge  he  attempts 
to  burn  his  guests.  When  they  are  both  standing  naked  upon  the 
stake,  Dom  Grisbourdon  enters  through  the  air  upon  his  ass  and 
persuades  Concuhx  to  spare  them,  promising  that  they  would  share 
the  wench.  Presently  we  find  Dom  Grisbourdon  in  Hell,  again  in 
the  circle  of  devils,  and  the  satanic  monk  reports  his  last  exploit. 
Naturally  this  scene  is  just  made  for  Voltaire — and  he  deals  hefty 
blows  to  the  church.  Dom  Grisbourdon  meets  Constantine,  the 
holy  Dominicus,  and  others.  The  monk  tells  how  he  and  the  ass 
driver  had  been  on  the  point  of  forcing  Jeanne,  when  Jeanne's  ass 
had  come  through  the  air  and  taken  her  away  to  Dunois.  Where- 
upon he  had  disguised  himself  as  a  seductive  girl  by  whom  Dunois 
was  thoroughly  ravished.  The  ass  driver  now  turned  his  attention 
to  this  stunning  girl,  whereupon  Jeanne  in  ire  and  jealousy  had 
run  him  through  with  her  sword. 

Agnes,  who  regards  herself  as  having  been  very  shabbily  treated 
by  Chandos  who  had  rejected  her,  turns  her  back  upon  the  camp  of 
the  English  still  wearing  the  clothes  of  their  leader.  But  the  page 
of  the  latter  observes  her  flight  and  pursues  her.  Agnes  has  a  fall 
and  he  treats  her  wounds  and  later  escorts  her  to  an  hostelry 
where  he  leaves  her  alone.  But  a  friar  knows  how  to  take  advantage 
of  opportunities  and  shares  Agnes'  bed  and  body.  In  the  meantime 
Dunois  rescues  a  young  witch  from  the  stake.  She  informs  him 
of  her  love  story  and  her  rescuer  fights  for  her  and  wins.  King 
Charles  now  learns  with  grief  of  the  disappearance  of  his  Agnes 
who  all  this  while  was  being  made  happy  by  the  friar.  Thereafter 
the  page  became  recipient  of  her  favors,  but  both  are  apprehended 
by  the  English  in  the  midst  of  their  copulatory  activity.  Agnes  suc- 
ceeds in  escaping  to  a  convent  where  she  desires  to  expiate  her  sins, 
but  alas  for  her  good  intentions,  the  acting  mother  superior  is  a 
disguised  youth.  Now  the  English  break  into  the  nunnery  and  hold 

150 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
foul  orgies  with  the  nuns.  St.  Dionysus  sees  all  and  hastens  to  the 
scene  with  Jeanne  to  dam  the  torrent  of  passion.  But  St.  George 
also  arrives  and  both  holy  ones  fall  to  with  their  swords  until  they 
are  forcibly  reconciled  by  Gabriel.  Charles  with  Bonneau  and  his 
confessor  arrive  at  the  castle  of  Cutendres  where  the  young  page, 
who  has  just  slain  the  lecherous  monk  that  had  done  violence  to 
Agnes,  was  now  enjoying  her  again  after  a  long  absence.  Full  of 
desire  the  king  hurries  to  Agnes  and  the  page  scurries  into  hiding 
but  throws  over  a  night  table  and  is  discovered  by  the  king.  How- 
ever, Agnes  is  able  to  hoodwink  the  nit- wit  monarch. 

In  the  meantime  luck  favors  the  English.  Jeanne  fights  with 
Chandos  and  loses,  whereupon  the  sensual  Briton  seeks  to  rob  her 
virginity  but  Dionysus  succeeds  in  preventing  this.  In  the  church 
Dorothea  is  oppressed  by  the  all  too  free  attentions  of  Chandos. 
Her  lover  Trimouille  arrives  on  the  scene  and  measures  swords 
with  the  latter  but  is  worsted.  However,  Dunois  takes  up  her  cause 
and  slays  the  Briton.  Charles  is  victorious  at  Orleans  but  loses  his 
Agnes  when  the  earth  opens  and  swallows  all  the  pretty  girls  plus 
the  page  Montros,  to  deposit  them  in  the  magic  palace  of  Conculix. 
Jeanne's  ass  makes  an  avowal  of  love  to  its  mistress  but  is  driven 
off  by  Dunois.  In  the  meantime,  our  heroes  are  with  Conculix  who 
will  release  them  from  that  captivity  when  one  of  the  captives 
will  give  himself  in  love.  Since  all  shrink  back,  Paul  Tirconel  de- 
cides to  sacrifice  himself  for  the  others.  The  ass  comes  to  the  castle, 
takes  Agnes  off  to  her  Charles,  and  rushes  to  Jeanne  who  finally 
surrenders  to  him. 

From  every  line  there  is  wafted  to  us  the  love  with  which  Vol-, 
taire  wrote  the  Pucelle  d^Orleans,  and  his  delight  in  the  erotic  situa- 
tions which  are  interspersed  through  the  epic.  Voltaire  wouldn't 
really  have  been  himself  had  he  not  utilized  every  opportunity 
to  hurl  his  darts  of  satire  against  the  court,  Louis,  his  mistresses 

161 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
and  the  clergy.  If  we  who  read  it  today  are  apt  to  set  it  down 
with  meagre  delight  or  perhaps  even  with  some  disgust,  it  is  be- 
cause the  book  no  longer  contains  truth  for  us.  Our  world  view 
is  no  longer  a  frivolous  one;  but  we  must  remember  how  and  why 
it  could  be  so  then.  It  came  about  as  the  practical  reaction  against 
Christian  spiritualism.  In  Christianity,  the  sensual  in  man  is  funda- 
mentally denied  in  theory,  and  only  tolerated  in  practice.  Contin- 
ence and  virginity  are  the  higher,  the  true  ideals,  which  should  be 
fulfilled  and  established  in  the  lives  of  men  and  women  if  only  they 
could  be  compassed;  and  occasionally  in  some  few  individuals  these 
virtues  are  realized,  which  sets  them  off  as  the  very  paragons  of  our 
species.  On  the  other  hand,  the  enlightenment  in  the  sensualist  form 
which  it  assumed  in  France  asserted,  and  to  that  extent  at  least 
justly,  that  man  was  not  essentially  spirit.  But  now  it  went  further, 
and  became  just  as  one-sided  as  the  church,  by  proclaiming  further 
that  he  is  only  flesh  and  nothing  more  than  sensuality.  Hence,  the 
poet  endeavors  to  discover  a  series  of  pictures  in  which  the  flesh 
always  brings  the  spirit  to  ruin,  in  which  ostensible  purity  is  always 
revealed  in  the  end  as  hypocrisy,  and  the  most  unsuspected  saints, 
as  the  most  dissolute  of  men.  It  may  be  said  that  in  Voltaire's 
Maid  of  Orleans,  the  eighteenth  century  took  delight  in  its  frivolity, 
which  in  itself  is  certainly  not  praiseworthy,  but  which  cannot  be 
separated  from  its  other  characteristics. 

CREBILLON  JUNIOR 

The  frivolous  literature  of  France  reached  its  high  point  in  Claude 
Prosper  Jolyot  de  Crebillon  (1707-1777),  and  who  as  the  most 
radical  representative  of  this  class  of  writers,  worked  his  field  with 
resolution  and  perspicacity.  His  works  thoroughly  convey  the  tone 
and  spirit  of  his  society  and  evince  an  unexampled  candor.  Cre- 

162 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUKY 
billon's  novels  are  always  sparkling  and  frivolous  to  the  point  of 
folly,  and  yet  always  (with  some  few  exceptions)  stopping  before 
the  ultimate  revelation,  always  halting  before  the  naked  representa- 
tion of  the  final  climax.  His  desire  to  mirror  life  as  it  really  is,  is 
aided  by  his  utter  lack  of  piety,  and  his  mercilessly  clear  powers  of 
observation.  Crebillon  had  no  more  illusions.  Wherever  he  looked 
he  saw  lechery  and  rottenness,  and  these  conditions  are  truthfully 
mirrored  in  his  works.  If  despite  this  we  accuse  him  of  lewdness, 
we  are  forgetting  that  an  author  who  wishes  to  be  read  must  ever 
be  the  slave  of  his  reading  public.  Crebillon  wished  to  be  read  and  his 
public  deified  frivolity.  This  subservience  to  the  taste  of  his  time 
explains,  in  part,  the  immorality  of  his  novels  which  found  their 
admirers  even  in  England.  British  men  of  the  world  frequently 
came  to  Paris  to  become  better  acquainted  with  the  refined  art  of 
loving,  to  provide  themselves  with  clothes,  and  to  purchase  a  dozen 
of  Crebillon's  novels  to  present  to  their  friends  upon  their  return. 

His  best  known  work  is  undoubtedly  The  Sofa.  When  this  novel 
appeared  it  aroused  great  discussion.  The  very  title  reveals  the 
essential  tendency  of  the  work.  In  1741  he  received  a  command  to 
exile  himself  from  Paris  because  the  king  and  his  courtiers  believed 
themselves  to  be  portrayed  in  this  tale.  Crebillon  fled  to  England 
and  confessed  that  he  had  written  Le  Sopha  at  the  wish  of  Fred- 
rick II,  that  it  had  not  been  intended  for  publication  but  that  the 
manuscript  had  been  stolen  from  him.  After  some  time,  he  received 
permission  to  return  to  France. 

As  in  Sade,  so  also  in  Crebillon,  the  wars  of  love  are  fought  not 
upon  the  bed,  but  upon  the  sofa.  The  story  takes  the  form  of  an  oriental 
tale,  in  which  Almanzai,  a  nobleman  in  the  court  of  a  certain  Shah, 
Baham,  becomes  transmogrified  into  a  sofa  for  punishment.  The 
conditions  of  the  enchantment  and  the  subsequent  release  are  that  he 
may  choose  any  form,  any  material,  any  color,  which  he  wishes, 

163 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FRANCE 
and  serve  whom  he  will;  only  that  he  must  remain  a  sofa  until  there 
will  be  enacted  upon  him  or  in  his  immediate  vicinity  a  scene  which 
is  of  extreme  rarity:  namely,  innocence  meeting  innocence,  and 
both  being  mutually  conquered.  We  may  wish  to  remember  that 
Crebillon  drew  the  framework  of  his  story  from  another  novel  of 
his  time,  The  Metempsychosis  of  the  Mandarin  Finn  Horn,  in  which 
the  latter  experiences  the  most  intimate  details  in  his  various  incar- 
nations. When  Crebillon  cast  about  for  some  object  which  would 
be  compelled  to  observe  the  most  suggestive  and  lascivious  scenes, 
his  first  thought  was  the  sofa,  but  it  goes  without  saying  that  Cre- 
billon was  altogether  original  in  the  erotic  situations.  The  success  that 
greeted  this  book  was  so  immense  that  many  imitations  were  found. 
Even  England  produced  echoes  of  this  novel,  but  instead  of  the 
sofa  to  observe  and  report  the  amorous  tidbits  such  diverse  objects 
were  introduced  as  lap  dogs,  drawers,  bank  notes,  and  formal  coats. 
An  example  of  a  typically  French  caiiserie  with  fine  pointed 
psychological  graces  is  offered  us  by  Crebillon  in  his  unusual  Sex- 
travaganza.  It  is  a  faithful  mirror  of  the  naughty  life  at  the  court  of 
Louis  XV,  where  women  give  themselves  as  naturally  as  the  men 
who  take  them.  In  Sextravaganza  there  are  but  two  characters, 
Countess  Cidalise  and  Count  Clitandre.  The  scene  is  a  country 
palace  at  night,  more  exactly,  the  room  of  the  countess,  who  has 
retired  but  forgotton  to  bolt  the  door.  Clitandre,  walking  about  in 
his  nightshirt,  sees  an  open  door  and  walks  in.  Is  he  expected?  We 
are  not  informed,  for  Crebillon  is  master  of  the  half-tone,  who 
leaves  much  more  to  our  surmise  than  he  tells  us  definitely.  Conver- 
sation becomes  more  and  more  lively  and  more  intimate.  The  Count- 
ess wishes  to  hear  more  of  his  love  adventures.  He  is  rather  reluctant 
to  continue  his  tale,  because  he  is  quite  frozen,  but  by  and  by,  he 
obtains  the  Countess'  permission  to  finish  the  tale  in  her  bed.  Now 
he  relates  his  meeting  with  Julie  on  one  hot  summer's  day,  during 

164 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
which  the  influence  of  heat  on  virility  was  discussed  and  in  which, 
finally  he  gave  her  proof  that  in  his  case  at  least,  no  diminution  was 
to  be  marked.  After  this  the  two  bed-mates  huddle  closer  to  each 
other,  and  each  makes  sexual  confessions  to  the  other,  and  declare 
themselves  attracted  one  to  the  other.  Clitandre  now  lays  siege  to 
her,  according  to  all  the  rules  of  the  art,  until  the  citadel  capitulates. 
This  performance  is  followed  by  the  vivid  narration  of  other  amor- 
ous relations,  and  when  morning  grays,  Clitandre  has  exhausted  his 
report  and  his  power. 

Next  in  importance  is  Crebillon's  Chinese  story,  The  Parasite, 
which  pretends  to  be  a  translation  from  the  land  of  lotus  blossoms. 
The  story  is  prolix  and  involved  and  the  conclusion  is  rather  dull. 
In  all  it  is  a  rather  painful  task  for  the  modern  reader.  The  thread 
of  the  story  is  constantly  torn  by  unnecessary  details — and  there 
are  frequent  intrusions  of  philosophic  and  gallant  details.  The  sale 
of  the  book  was  strictly  prohibited  and  as  a  result  it  enjoyed  a 
large  underground  distribution  and  even  court  ladies  are  reported 
as  having  been  "crazy"  for  it.  The  reason  for  the  prohibition  was 
that  in  this  book  there  could  be  discerned  a  satire  against  Cardinal 
Rohan,  with  the  result  that  Crebillon  had  to  spend  some  time  in 
the  Bastille. 

If  Crebillon  here  has  retained  some  traces  of  decency  he  dropped 
all  the  veils  in  the  work  now  to  be  mentioned,  the  famed  Dialogue 
Tableaux  of  Morals  in  Different  Ages.  Both  this  volume  and  Sex- 
travagafiza  have  recently  been  published  in  this  country.  In  seven- 
teen chapters  a  veritable  master  paints  the  gallant  life  of  the  old 
empire.  Seventeen  pictures  out  of  life,  caught  by  the  inexorable 
eye  and  limned  with  a  delicate  impressionistic  pencil,  joined  to- 
gether to  form  a  total  portrait  of  the  most  ostentatious  era  of  French 
history — glowing  with  ardent  sensuality.  In  the  midst  of  this  kal- 
eidoscope of  passions  stands  Mile.  Tlierese,  a  society  girl  of  enchant- 

165 


^ 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOHY  OF  FKANCE 
ing  beauty  and  grace.  We  make  her  acquaintance  when  she  is  just  a 
young  girl  being  educated  in  the  cloister  and  already  here,  within 
the  holy  walls,  her  hot  blood  simmers.  Her  senses  cry  out  for  ful- 
fillment and  a  stormy  need  for  love  draws  her  to  her  friends  and 
associates.  How  these  young  girls  at  the  cloister  engage  in  numer- 
ous, deeply  erotic  practices,  how  the  awakening  of  spring  finds 
expression  in  the  most  daring  of  games  and  adventures,  constitute 
one  of  the  most  effective  and  exquisite  parts.  Later  we  see  the  girl 
in  full  bloom  as  bride  and  young  matron.  Very  soon,  however,  the 
marriage  partners  go  their  own  way. 

This  remarkable  book  has  a  very  interesting  history.  Crebillon 
wrote  it  at  the  request  of  the  enormously  wealthy  farmer-general 
of  taxes,  Popeliniere,  who  was  famous  for  his  grand  style,  his  luxury, 
his  lavishness  and  his  wenching.  In  addition  he  had  an  itch  to  write 
poetry, which  hasn't  survived.  But  two  of  his  novels  have  come  down 
to  us,  and  the  Histoire  de  Zairette  has  been  preserved  because  its 
author  affixed  it  to  Crebillon's  Tableaux  of  Morals,  to  rescue  it 
from  oblivion.  Zairette,  born  in  Paris,  is  after  many  venereal  ad- 
ventures brought  to  the  kingdom  of  Karaktay  where  she  must 
serve  the  sensual  desires  of  the  ruler  Moufhack,  which  love  scenes 
are  represented  with  sextravagant  imaginativeness.  According  to 
Marquis  de  Paulmy's  account,  this  book  of  Crebillon  was  printed 
with  the  utmost  care  in  just  one  copy,  in  the  house  and  under  the 
eye  of  Popeleniere.  After  printing,  the  plates  were  destroyed.  The 
work  contained  twenty  large  but  handsome  miniatures  which 
showed  Popeleniere  in  various  positions.  After  the  latter's  death 
this  volume  was  found  in  a  sealed  packet  so  that  at  first  Popeleniere 
was  suspected  of  being  the  author  of  both  books,  both  Zairette 
and  the  Tableaux.  As  soon  as  it  was  unwrapped  and  examined,  the 
great  monetary  value  of  the  book  became  obvious  because  of  its 
rarity  and  the  beauty  of  its  pictures.  Mile,  de  Vandi,  one  of  the  heir- 

166 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
esses  to  the  Popeleniere  estate  cried  out  aloud  when  she  saw  this 
find  and  insisted  that  the  work  of  the  devil  be  burnt  immediately. 
But  the  officer  in  charge  explained  that  this  procedure  would  have 
to  be  sanctioned  by  all  the  heirs;  whereupon  he  sealed  the  package 
again  and  informed  the  chief  of  police  who  in  turn  communicated 
with  the  minister,  Saint-Florentin.  The  minister  ordered  that  the 
book  be  obtained  for  His  Majesty,  and  so  it  was.  Later  the  book 
changed  hands  many  times,  and  in  1 89 1  it  was  sold  to  a  bibliophile 
for  over  20,000  francs.  There  have  been  numerous  reprints  and 
Rops  once  contributed  a  frontispiece  to  one  of  these.  The  French 
government  has  always  confiscated  these  reprints  so  that  copies 
are  exceedingly  rare. 

Crebillon  wrote  numerous  other  works  and  all  were  widely  read 
in  his  day.  His  writings  fitted  the  taste  of  the  times  perfectly — to 
portray  the  most  amatory  situations  with  the  most  moral  words. 
Sensual  pleasure  has  but  little  charm  without  spirited  talk.  The 
witty  preludes  are  the  ornaments  and  the  excuse  for  these  im- 
moral carryings  on.  The  fairy  tale  form  and  the  Oriental  frame- 
work were  also  part  of  the  contemporary  mode  which  Crebillon 
adopted. 

Peculiar  to  Crebillon  is  the  extraordinary  combination  or  mor- 
alizing tone  with  scabrous  reporting  of  love  relationships.  No 
one  can  fail  to  appreciate  his  desire  to  give  a  faithful  mirror  of 
his  time.  At  moments  the  satirist  in  him  makes  his  appearance 
when  he  takes  aim  at  theological  and  political  abuses — but  he  does 
it  guardedly  and  makes  these  reconnoitres  appear  quite  accidental. 
His  influence  on  the  literature  of  his  time  was  tremendous  and 
can  easily  be  demonstrated. 


167 


THE  EMOTIC  MISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 

CHODERLOS  DE  LACLOS 

Since  love  was  everything  in  this  century,  the  gallant  ladies  and 
gentlemen  of  the  day  became  systematic  and  reduced  seduction 
to  a  system.  The  mere  surrender  of  a  woman  was  no  great  achieve- 
ment. One  had  tasted  so  much,  and  so  frequently,  that  one  could 
find  pleasure  only  when  one  gained  one's  goal  by  craft  or  force. 
"First  enjoy,  then  destroy"  went  the  slogan.  With  unsurpassable 
mastery  Choderlos  de  Laclos  (1741-1803),  in  his  Liaisojis  Danger- 
euses,  reproduced  with  the  fidelity  of  a  photographer,  all  the  de- 
tails of  courtly  depravity  which  degraded  love  to  sly  deceit.  A 
young  and  innocent  girl  is  seduced  by  two  genial  criminals  and 
made  into  the  meanest  whore.  A  young  and  religious  matron  is 
systematically  driven  to  infidelity  by  this  pair  and  finally  to  death. 
And  the  motive  of  it  all  is  not  love,  not  even  sensuality,  but  the 
exquisite  lust  for  psychological  experimentation  which  will  stop 
at  no  crime.  Seduction  is  not  the  motive  but  corruption.  But  the 
satirist  was  hardly  so  much  in  earnest  about  his  theme  that  he 
forgot  his  Gallic  smile  and  frivolity.  He  was  impelled  by  literary 
ambition,  and  to  achieve  a  widely-read  book  he  would  have  to 
employ  the  loudest  colors  possible  in  the  depiction  of  vice.  De 
Laclos  cannot  be  accused  of  depicting  crime  with  great  expansive- 
ness  and  providing  the  "heroes"  of  corruption  with  such  brilliant 
accoutrement.  If  his  work  was  to  be  complete  and  effective  it 
would  have  to  be  done  in  the  finest  and  most  circumstantial  manner. 
De  Laclos's  contemporary,  Count  Tilly,  makes  a  very  interesting 
comment.  The  author  expended  much  art  upon  Mme.  de  Mertuil. 
He  purposely  represented  her  as  being  so  corrupt  that  he  might 
the  better  contrast  the  angelic  purity  of  Mme.  de  Tourvel.  And 
he  is  even  justified  in  making  the  former  lady  outdo  in  evil  Valmont 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
himself,  for  he  is  a  student  of  men  and  knows  that  generally  women 
are  better  than  men  and  worthier  than  us;  but  once  they  have  left 
the  path  of  virtue  and  womanliness,  they  proceed  downhill  into  the 
mire  at  an  alarmingly  fast  clip.  For  the  rest  he  has  drawn  pictures 
more  reprehensible  than  Aretino;  but  most  of  them  are  elegant, 
some  true,  others  exaggerated,  and  their  colors  laid  on  with  a  trowel. 
By  those  who  knew  the  great  men  only  from  hearsay  this  work 
was  accepted  as  a  splendid  representation  of  the  general  morality 
of  the  higher  classes;  and  in  this  sense  it  can  be  regarded,  as  one  of 
the  thousand  billows  of  the  revolutionary  ocean  which  swallowed 
up  the  court,  one  of  the  thousand  lightning  flashes  in  the  storm 
that  razed  the  throne.  In  a  word,  his  work  is  the  product  of  a  head 
of  the  first  rank,  a  heart  given  over  to  rottenness  and  the  genius  of 
evil.  So  well  was  he  able  to  get  the  proper  note  that  people  actually 
asked  whether  the  correspondence  was  genuine  or  fanciful;  and 
Laclos,  in  a  naive  and  philistine  introduction,  sought  to  maintain 
the  belief  in  the  genuineness  of  the  letters. 

De  Laclos  told  his  friend  Tilly  that  the  work  originated  while  he 
was  stationed  in  a  garrison  on  the  island  of  Re  where  he  was  perish- 
ing of  boredom.  He  had  already  tried  composing  some  elegies  and 
had  also  gotten  into  scrapes.  But  now  he  yearned  to  achieve  some- 
thing that  would  bring  him  lasting  fame,  even  after  his  death. 
One  of  his  friends,  a  literar)^  man  who  had  also  made  his  mark  in 
the  sciences,  had  had  a  host  of  adventures  in  his  life  which  lacked 
only  a  frame  and  a  stage  since  they  had  plenty  of  glory  and 
eclat.  This  friend  was  really  born  for  woman,  and  was  thorough- 
ly versed  in  the  falsehoods  and  infidelities  in  which  the  female 
species  has  accomplished  so  much.  Indeed,  had  he  been  born  at 
court  he  would  have  been  a  lovelace  and  would  even  have  sur- 
passed the  latter  in  form.  This  friend  chose  Laclos  for  his  confidant 
who  laughed  at  his  pranks  and  occasionally  helped  out  with  advice. 

169 


THE  EROTIC  MISTOMY  OF  FBANCE 
TTie  latter  knew  one  of  his  mistresses  who  stood  near  to  Mme.  de 
Alertuil,  and  in  Grenoble  he  found  the  lady  who  was  the  prototype 
of  the  Alertuil  woman  in  the  story.  It  was  a  certain  Marquise  con- 
cerning whom  the  whole  city  knew  and  told  things  related  only 
of  the  most  notorious  empresses  of  ancient  Rome.  He  wrote  down 
the  most  noteworthy  of  these  reports  with  an  eye  to  using  them 
later,  and  added  to  these  erotic  episodes  that  had  become  bywords, 
and  certain  passages  from  his  own  life.  Then  he  melted  it  all  into 
one  precious  metal,  invited  the  rest  and  created  particularly  the 
character  of  Mme.  de  Tourvel  who  meant  very  much  to  him  and 
whom  he  regarded  as  being  too  virtuous  for  this  earth.  After  ex- 
pending a  number  of  months  of  diligent  labor  to  perfect  the  style 
he  sent  it  into  the  world  and  achieved  his  purpose.  Fame  was  his 
in  large  measure.  During  his  own  life  the  book  was  reprinted  fifty 
times.  Stendhal  (Beyle)  sought  to  make  his  acquaintance  and  was 
so  impressed  by  the  Laclos  reputation  that  he  acted  like  a  diffident 
schoolboy  in  the  presence  of  the  famous  author. 


LOUVET  DE  COUVRAY 


In  strict  contrast  to  the  Dangerous  Connections  of  Choderlos  stands 
another,  hardly  less  famous  work,  The  Adventures  of  Chevalier 
Faublas  by  Jean  Baptiste  Louvet  de  Couvray.  In  1772  he  was  taken 
into  the  convent  where  he  joined  the  party  of  the  Girondists 
and  was  not  afraid  to  rise  against  Robespierre.  In  1793  he  had  to 
flee  but  after  the  death  of  the  latter  he  returned  and  was  re- 
admitted into  the  convent,  joined  the  Council  of  500  and  died  in 
1797.  But  his  work  will  live  for  all  time  as  the  creation  of  a  great 
poet.  This  work  permits  us  to  see  yet  once  more  in  roseate  hues 
all  that  the  old  society  had  fitted  out  with  so  much  pomp  and 
circumstance.  If  the  Dangerous  Liaisons  had  exposed  its  contempo- 

170 


BOOK  HI:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
raries  with  cynical  candor,  the  other  book  waxed  enthusiastic  about 
the  handsome  he — its  lovely  grace,  its  exquisite  frivolity,  which 
the  society  flattered  itself  it  lived  under. 

In  contrast  to  Casanova's  experienced  reports,  Faublas's  is  an 
imaginary  account,  and  may  be  accounted  as  the  moral  balance 
of  the  time.  The  whole  is  a  web  of  lubricity  and  passionate  bou- 
doir scenes  where  people  love,  converse  wittily,  debate  about  love; 
where  night  and  day  there  is  nothing  else  but  carnal  pleasure; 
where  folk  smilingly  deceive  and  are  deceived;  where  despite 
all  this  nothingness,  no  tedium  is  experienced.  Everything  remains 
superficial  and  neither  lust  nor  grief  goes  very  deep;  and  above 
all,  these  idlers  fear  a  genuine  passion  which  is  not  compatible 
with  their  trivialism.  Faublas  sums  up  all  these  hundreds  of  in- 
dividual details  in  his  wonderful  pictures  of  the  times.  The  contents 
of  this  book  are  too  well  known  to  need  repetition  here.  Besides, 
a  compressed  narrative  account  will  give  no  notion  of  the  attractive 
and  vividly  warm  paintings,  for  it  is  just  this  mass  of  little  mis- 
chievous and  lascivious  details  which  afford  it  its  true  splendor. 
Louvet  comprehended  the  ideal  of  rakishness  with  almost  remarkable 
talents.  His  inventiveness  is  happy,  his  devices  which  set  it  in 
motion  are  nimble,  swift  and  effective.  One  marvels  at  the  heap  of 
aids  and  combinations  the  author  has  at  his  disposal.  The  situations 
he  invents  are  comical  and  original  and  his  dramatic  talent  teaches 
him  how  to  handle  characters  properly.  The  action  is  full  of  fire. 
The  movement  of  scenes  abounds  in  vital  warmth  which  never 
harms  the  probability  or  impedes  the  unfolding.  Twenty  characters 
and  a  half  dozen  intrigues  are  going  at  one  time  and  nothing  gets 
in  the  way  of  anything  else.  On  the  contrary  they  illuminate  each 
other  with  pure  and  tender  love  and  patriotic  enthusiasm  resting 
the  mind,  for  everything  fatigues,  even  vice.  His  style  is  elegant 
and  light;  and  if  panurgic  in  places,  thoroughly  pleasant.  It  has 

171 


THE  EKOTIC  MISTOEY  OF  FEANCE 
more  of  grace  than  wit,  more  wit  than  passion,  more  passion  than 
observation  and  more  of  frivolity  than  anything  else.  To  sum  up, 
the  queer  amalgam  of  inconstant  tenderness,  sensual  intoxication 
and  merry  comedy  produces  a  remarkable  but  dangerous  book. 
Extremely  praiseworthy  is  the  naturalness  with  which  emotion 
is  represented  and  motivated.  Here  is  no  affected  sentimentality, 
ostentatious  with  artifiicial  sensations,  but  pure  truth,  even  when 
it  goes  hand  in  hand  with  the  greatest  frivolity.  As  an  illustration 
of  the  spirit  of  the  work  and  its  language,  a  scene  will  be  quoted  in 
which  the  Marquise  apparently  makes  the  discovery  that  the  young 
Faublas  who  is  lying  beside  her,  dressed  as  a  girl,  is  really  of  mas- 
culine gender. 

Deep  silence  reigned  for  a  few  breaths,  then  the  Marquise  asked 
me  in  a  wonderfully  changed  voice. 

"Are  you  asleep  already,  pretty  child.^" 

"No,  I  am  still  awake." 

She  opened  her  arms  rapidly  and  pressed  me  to  her  bosom. 

"Heavens!"  she  then  cried  out  with  a  surprise  that  was  ex- 
cellently simulated,  "A  man."  And  pushing  me  from  her  quick- 
ly she  added,  "How,  sir,  is  this  possible?" 

"Madame,  I  told  you  expressly. . ."  I  answered  trembling. 

"Quite  right,  sir,  but  it  was  incredible.  You  shouldn't  have 
remained  here  or  you  should  at  least  not  have  prevented  them 
from  preparing  another  bed  for  you." 

"But  it  wasn't  I  who  did  it,  madame,  but  the  Marquis  him- 
self." 

"Please  speak  quietly,  sir.  I  repeat  you  must  not  remain  here. 
You  must  go." 

"Good,  madame,  I  go." 

But  she  seized  me  by  my  sleeve  and  cried,  "Go?  where  to 
— and  what  for?  To  wake  my  maids  so  that  we  will  surely  be 
apprehended?  So  that  all  will  be  able  to  say  that  a  man  has  been 
in  my  bed?" 

"Gracious  madame,  do  not  be  angry.  I  shall  spend  the  night 

172 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
in  an  armchair.  This  will  be  the  best  way  out  of  an  awkward 


situation." 


But  she  still  held  on  to  my  arm  and  went  on,  "Now  that's  an 
idea  for  you.  Tired  as  he  is,  a  night  in  this  cold  room  ivould  cer- 
tainly give  him  a  cold — //  not  some  more  serious  illness.  As  a 
matter  of  fact  you  deserve  some  such  fate,  but  I  will  permit  you 
to  remain  here  if  you  promise  to  be  good." 

"Then  you  forgive  me?" 

"No,  I  don't  forgive  you.  I  am  merely  looking  out  for  myself, 
much  more  than  for  you.  But  dear — what  a  cold  hand  he  has." 

Full  of  pity  she  put  it  upon  her  ivory  neck,  but  guided  by 
natural  impulse  and  love,  the  fortunate  hand  soon  slid  down; 
an  incomprehensible  excitation  set  my  blood  aboiling. 

"Has  ever  woman  been  in  such  a  pickle  as  the  one  he  has  put 
me  into?"  the  Marquise  complained  petulantly. 

"Forgive  me,  forgive  me,  dearest  mama." 

"You  are  really  considerate  of  your  mama,  you  little  wretch." 
Then  her  arms  drew  me  to  her  again,  oh  so  gently.  And  soon 
we  were  so  close  that  our  lips  met  and  I  had  the  temerity  to 
press  a  hot  kiss  upon  hers. 

"Faublas,  is  this  what  you  promised  me?"  she  said  almost 
voicelessly.  Her  hand  suddenly  strayed,  and  a  consuming  fire 
raced  through  my  veins. 

"Gracious  lady,  forgive  me,  I  die!" 

"My  dear  Faublas,  my  friend! " 

I  became  motionless.  The  Marquise  had  pity  with  my  help- 
lessness which  she  rather  enjoyed  and  helped  along  my  timid 
awkwardness.  I  underwent  with  as  much  wonder  as  pleasure  a 
lesson  which  I  repeated  more  than  once. 


CHAPTEM  Xn 

OTHER  CELEBRATED  PORNOLOGISTS 
COMTE  DE  MIRABEAU 

IN  1 749  Honore  Gabriel  Riquette,  Comte  de  Mirabeau  was  bom 
at  the  castle  of  Bignon.  He  died  in  1791.  His  biography  is  known 
to  all.  Because  he  had  seduced  Sophie  Ruffey,  the  Marquise  of 
Monnier,  both  were  persecuted  by  the  furious  husband.  Mirabeau 
was  sentenced  to  the  jail  at  Vincennes,  and  Sophie  was  immured 
in  a  cloister.  But  the  motives  which  impelled  the  aging  Count  Ruf- 
fey to  these  acts  of  punishment  did  not  spring  from  any  exalted 
motives.  Repeatedly,  Mirabeau  accuses  Monnier  unequivocally  of 
the  ignominious  design  to  get  a  child  from  his  wife  at  any  price, 
which  he  himself  could  not  hope  for  from  his  own  efforts.  He 
wanted  a  child  so  badly  because  he  wished  to  avenge  himself  against 
his  married  daughter  and  her  husband.  He  would  be  able  to  disin- 
herit them  only  if  he  could  have  a  child  by  his  second  marriage 
which  in  the  eyes  of  the  world  could  be  considered  as  his  own. 
When  these  calculations  were  destroyed  by  Mirabeau  and  Sophie 
he  became  extremely  embittered  and  engineered  the  persecutions 
of  the  lovers. 

While  Mirabeau  was  in  prison  the  Marquis  de  Sade  was  brought 
there,  and  there  were  many  subsequent  encounters  between  these 
two  writers.  In  the  1780's  the  latter  came  to  pay  his  respects  to 
Mirabeau,  who  later  wrote  the  following  account  of  this  visit  to 
Police  Chief  Boucher,  whom  Mirabeau  called  his  guardian  angel: 

174 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 

"Yesterday  M.  de  Sade  fired  his  cell.  He  did  me  the  honor  of 
introducing  himself  to  me  and  without  the  slightest  provoca- 
tion on  my  part  he  made  me  the  butt  of  his  infamous  attack.  He 
accused  me  of  being  the  favorite  of  the  inspector  of  prisons — 
M.  de  Rougememont — who  accorded  me  the  privilege  of  a 
daily  stroll  which  was  denied  him.  Finally  he  asked  for  my 
name  so  that  he  might  have  the  pleasure  of  cutting  my  ears  off 
after  he  would  again  be  at  liberty.  Then  I  lost  patience  and  re- 
plied: 'My  name  is  that  of  a  gentleman  who  has  never  cut  wo- 
men up,  and  poisoned  them,  and  who  will  spell  the  name  out  on 
your  back  if  you  won't  shut  up,  for  which  business  I  shan't 
have  much  regret.'  Whereupon  he  kept  still  and  he  hasn't  dared 
to  open  his  mouth  since.  If  you  are  inclined  to  bear  me  some  ill- 
will  about  it  I  might  answer  that  it  is  easy  enough  to  exercise 
patience  at  a  distance,  but  mighty  sad  to  live  under  one  roof 
with  such  a  monster," 

The  incarceration  of  the  lovers,  Mirabeau  and  Sophie,  did  not 
have  the  effect  of  extinguishing  their  love.  They  languished  each 
for  the  other  and  their  letters  bear  witness  to  their  passionate  tem- 
perament. Sophie  is  delighted  to  read  the  description  of  Mirabeau 's 
love  affairs  with  the  highest  ladies  of  the  court. 

His  letters  are  momentary  inspirations  of  the  most  personal  art, 
not  really  meant  for  the  external  world.  When  rumors  came  to  him 
that  some  one  was  planning  to  publish  them  he  was  shocked  and 
vowed  that  if  he  could  survive  the  blow  he  would  live  only  for 
revenge.  Unfortunately,  he  had  no  way  of  hindering  the  realizations 
of  these  rumors,  for  all  the  letters  had  gotten  into  the  Paris  police 
archives.  During  the  revolution  the  whole  department  came  under 
the  control  of  the  municipal  council  whose  syndic  in  1 792  was  the 
convent  deputy  Manuel.  The  latter  used  his  position  to  obtain  the 
letters  for  himself  and  to  publish  them  despite  the  opposition  of  the 
family. 

Mirabeau  also  corresponded  in  a  very  free  manner  indeed  with 

175 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
another  lady  whom  he  did  not  know  at  all.  The  suppressed  desires 
of  the  lovers  found  partial  expression  in  this  erotic  correspondence 
which  is  an  important  source  for  the  life  of  Mirabeau.  Thus  we 
learn  that  A4irabeau  is  the  author  of  the  notorious  My  Conversion, 
frequently  known  as  The  Libertine  of  Quality.  Some  have  suggested 
that  it  was  the  father  of  Mirabeau  who  wrote  the  book  but  attributed 
it  to  the  son  that  the  latter's  name  might  be  discredited,  but  several 
of  these  letters  to  Julie  contain  explicit  and  indubitable  testimony 
that  Mirabeau  himself  wrote  the  book.  Thus  he  writes  to  her: 

"I  am  not  enclosing  a  quite  insane  book  that  I  have  written 
and  called  My  Conversiofi.  The  following  extract  may  give  you 
an  idea  of  the  contents,  and  show  you  at  the  same  time  how 
faithful  to  you  I  still  am.  (There  now  follows  a  quotation  from 
the  above  book.)  'Until  now,  my  friend,  I  was  a  ne'er-do-well. 
I  pursued  skirts  and  was  only  a  rotter  and  a  — .  But  now  youth 
returns  to  my  heart.  Hereafter  I  shall  love  only  for  gold.  I  will 
advertise  myself  as  a  sworn  stallion  for  women  whose  summer 
is  almost  gone,  and  so  will  teach  them  to  hop  with  their  poste- 
riors every  month.' 

"You  can't  believe  how  many  figures  and  amusing  contrasts 
fit  into  this  frame.  All  types  of  women,  and  all  ages  pass  before 
the  eye.  The  idea  is  quite  mad  but  the  details  are  rollicking  and 
some  day  I'm  going  to  read  it  all  to  you,  although  I  fear  that 
you'll  be  scratching  my  eyes  out.  I've  already  finished  the  wo- 
man of  means,  the  prude,  the  nun,  the  president,  the  business 
woman,  the  court  lady,  the  old  one,  and  now  I'm  doing  the 
young  woman.  This  is  one  grand  work  and  a  correct  manual  of 
morals." 

In  a  later  letter  he  writes  Sophie  that  he  is  preparing  engravings 
for  the  book  which  if  he  were  its  bookseller  and  not  its  author, 
would  be  making  his  fortune.  He  promises  to  leave  enough  time 
for  hours  of  dalliance  with  her,  even  if  he  is  giving  most  of  his 
present  time  to  the  completion  of  this  book.  If  she  will  promise  to 

176 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUBY 
be  tolerant  to  free  words  and  loose  portraiture,  which  is,  however, 
nothing  but  the  reflection  of  current  immorality,  he  will  send  her 
the  book  which  is  less  frivolous  than  would  appear  at  first  glance. 
He  has  already  thoroughly  analyzed  the  court  ladies  and  finished 
anatomizing  the  nuns  and  the  opera  girls.  Now  he  is  treating  the 
monks  but  is  planning  to  make  a  short  excursion  to  the  underworld 
where  he  will  fornicate  with  Prosperina  and  dig  up  some  droll  news. 
In  short,  he  regards  his  book  as  an  extraordinary  piece  of  madness 
which  no  one  can  read  without  laughter.  A  month  later  he  sent  her 
the  first  part  of  the  book.  The  second  he  was  afraid  to  entrust  to  the 
mails.  A  melancholy  note  is  sounded  in  the  brief  note  accompanying 
the  book  as  he  speaks  of  the  dismalness  of  the  prison  environment 
where  one  must  beat  one's  thigh  to  induce  laughter:  "For  if  one 
doesn't  laugh  one  loses  all  courage,  or  reason,  or  even  life." 

The  novel  is  entirely  concerned  with  a  man  who  sells  his  potency. 
In  order  to  pay  for  his  luxurious  indulgences  a  cavalier  belonging 
to  French  court  circles  distributes  his  favors  for  suitable  remunera- 
tion to  a  whole  series  of  women,  more  or  less  old  and  more  or  less 
ugly,  but  always  rich.  Mirabeau  published  the  book  because  he  just 
had  to  pay  off  some  debts.  Hence  we  cannot  assume  that  we  are 
dealing  with  an  absolutely  faithful  reflection  of  the  social  life  of 
the  times.  The  lascivious  life  of  that  epoch  appears  caricatured;  but 
the  book  has  an  abiding  human  value. 

Later  Mirabeau  wrote  his  little  pussy,  Sophie,  that  he  had  com- 
posed a  new  and  very  original  work  entitled  Erotica  Biblion  treating 
the  most  roguish  themes  in  a  grotesque  but  none  the  less  serious 
fashion.  He  asks  her  whether  she  can  believe  that  in  the  Bible  and 
classical  times  investigations  were  instituted  concerning  onanism, 
tribadism,  and  on  all  indelicate  matter  treated  by  the  casuists.  These 
matters  were  treated  in  the  Bible  in  such  a  way  that  they  were 
readable  by  even  the  most  squeamish,  and  incidentally  they  were 

m 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FEANCE 
interlarded  with  philosophical  ideas.  Here  Mirabeau  treats  all 
manner  of  passion  and  perversity  in  a  fairly  unexceptionable  style 
and  shows  that  among  the  ancient  peoples,  particularly  the  Jews, 
there  existed  the  same  degree  of  sexual  excitability  as  in  his  time. 
The  work  is  cleverly  erotic  but  by  no  means  pornographic.  In 
many  respects  it  is  one  of  the  strangest  books  ever  written.  Here 
are  some  of  his  chapter  headings — with  their  paraphrased  meanings: 

IscHA,  or  the  creation  of  man  and  his  superiority  to  zvoman. 
Tropoide,  or  about  incest. 
Thalabe,  or  concerning  masturbation. 
Anandrine,  or  concerning  tribadism. 
Akripoidie,  or  concerjiing  circumcision. 
Kadesch,  or  concerning  unnatural  unchastity. 
Behemao,  or  concerning  unchastity  with  animals. 
Leguanmanie,  or  views  about  orgasm  and  divers  notes  anent 

prostitution. 

The  whole  edition  of  this  work  was  confiscated  immediately  so 
that  only  fourteen  copies  of  it  are  extant  today.  It  was  naturally 
placed  on  the  Index,  too,  under  the  title  of  Amatoria  Bibliorum. 
Subsequent  editions  met  the  same  fate  but  the  book  has  reproduced 
itself. 

If  Mirabeau's  authorship  of  these  books  is  fairly  certain,  this  is 
not  the  case  with  Hie  a  Hec,  dealing  with  the  adventures  of  a 
young  pupil  of  the  Avignon  Jesuits  who  becomes  a  tutor  in  a 
wealthy  home  after  the  dissolution  of  the  order.  The  characters 
are  recruited  from  the  clergy  and  nobility;  and  the  action  leaves 
nothing  to  be  desired  in  the  way  of  caprice  and  lasciviousness. 

Another  work  of  uncertain  authorship  that  has  been  attributed 
to  Mirabeau  without  justification  is  The  Raised  Curtain,  probably 
a  work  of  the  Marquis  de  Sentilly.  It  purports  to  be  an  apology  for 
incest  but  the  task  is  not  carried  out,  perhaps  because  of  a  sudden 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
access  of  scruple;  and  the  story  as  we  have  it  today  has  been  worked 
over  by  another  pen.  Little  Laura  whose  education  is  completely 
in  the  hands  of  her  father,  gets  a  new  governess  who  spends  an 
unaccountably  long  time  in  her  father's  room.  To  allay  her  curiosity 
Laura  ties  a  thread  to  the  curtain  in  this  room  and  leads  it  through 
the  keyhole  into  her  own  room  next  door.  One  day  she  pulls  this 
thread  gently  and  as  the  curtain  rises,  discovers  her  father  in  a  tight 
situation  with  her  governess.  But  her  deed  has  been  noticed  and  she 
must  be  witness  to  the  performance.  Later  she  receives  the  informa- 
tion that  no  natural  bond  ties  her  to  her  father.  Since  she  is  too 
young  for  the  tussle  of  love  and  since  her  father  is  aware  of  her 
fiery  temperament,  he  has  her  fitted  with  a  chastity  belt  which  she 
must  wear  until  she  becomes  ripe.  When  little  Laura  reaches  pu- 
berty, it  is  removed  and  there  follow  orgies  with  the  father,  youths, 
etc.,  which  are  broadly  depicted  with  philosophic  discussions  and 
justifications. 

A  number  of  other  works  are  attributed  to  Mirabeau,  some  justly 
but  others  wrongly.  His  works  found  wide  recognition  even  outside 
of  France,  and  were  greedily  read  by  women,  too.  Pauline  Wiesel, 
the  lover  of  Prince  Louis  Ferdinand,  was  greatly  enthusiastic  about 
them  as  we  know  from  a  letter  of  von  Benz  which  characterizes 
Mirabeau's  writing  as  cold  libertinism  and  urges  her  friend  to  read 
cognate  productions  of  Voltaire,  Crebillon  and  Grecourt  if  she 
would  know  the  best  that  has  been  achieved  in  this  field. 

NERCIAT 

Andre  Robert  Andrea  de  Nerciat  was  born  in  1739,  led  a  fairly 
adventurous  life  and  died  in  1800.  He  began  to  travel  very  early  in 
order  to  perfect  himself  in  languages,  then  entered  the  service  of 
the  king  of  Denmark  and  finally  returned  to  France  where  he  rose 

179 


TME  EHOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FRANCE 
to  chief  lieutenant.  After  being  pensioned  he  journeyed  through 
Belgium  and  became  assistant  librarian  to  the  Landgrave  of  Hessen- 
Cassel,  but  after  the  newspapers  accused  him  of  disorganizing  the 
public  library  he  resigned,  and  became  director  of  construction  to 
the  Duke  of  Hessen-Rothenburg,  and  finally  returned  to  France. 
During  the  revolution  he  emigrated  and  served  the  Duke  of  Braun- 
schweig. In  1798  he  was  sent  to  the  pope  on  a  special  mission  by 
the  queen  of  Naples  but  was  captured  by  French  troops  and  jailed. 
Shortly  after  his  release,  he  died. 

As  a  writer  Nerciat  is  distinguished  by  his  spirit  and  style.  His 
dialogues  are  brilliant  and  evince  strong  dramatic  skill.  Even  in 
erotic  scenes  he  knows  how  to  introduce  relief.  He  never  offends 
with  coarse  speech  but  even  in  the  freest  scenes  he  knows  how  to 
divert  attention  from  carnal  reality  by  the  aid  of  proper  sentiment. 
But  despite  all  these  virtues,  his  writings  leave  the  reader  untouched 
for  they  lack  the  chief  desideratum — emotion.  He  belongs  to  that 
type  of  rococo  individual  to  whom  Choderlos  de  Laclos  erected 
such  a  lasting  monument  in  his  immortal  story. 

Nerciat's  chief  work  is  Felicia.  The  person  of  Felicia  is  no  creation 
of  the  author's  fancy  but  a  real  individual,  a  friend  of  his,  and  we 
meet  her  again  in  Montrose  and  Aphrodite.  The  heroine  opens  her 
eyes  upon  the  world  on  a  pirate  ship.  She  is  adopted  by  an  Italian 
who  gives  her  an  excellent  education.  Her  libido  is  aroused  when 
she  is  still  very  young  and  at  fourteen  a  little  dancing  instructor 
turns  her  head.  At  nineteen  she  falls  in  love  with  the  Chevalier 
d'Aiglemont.  Then  a  prelate  is  added  to  the  series.  Her  lust  for 
adventure  draws  her  to  Paris.  On  the  way  she  is  attacked  by  robbers 
but  freed  by  a  young,  knightly  hero,  Montrose.  Her  love  adventures 
with  him  fill  the  first  half  of  the  second  volume.  Despite  their  great 
love  for  each  other  neither  hesitates  to  stray  off  into  other  pastures. 
Felicia  falls  in  with  a  rich  Briton  who  is  a  slave  to  a  peculiar  whim. 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
He  invites  young  couples  and  pretty  girls  to  his  castle  and  eaves- 
drops upon  them  quite  invisibly,  for  the  castle  has  double  walls. 
There  are  numerous  episodes  and  many  characters  appear.  All  the 
love  scenes  give  way  to  a  mass  wedding.  Sidney  marries  Zeila  whom 
he  had  once  lost.  Aiglemont  takes  a  little  flapper  home  with  him 
and  only  Montrose  escapes  the  matrimonial  chains.  He  finds  his 
family,  joins  the  army  and  is  promoted  to  the  rank  of  captain. 

A  subsequent  novel,  Montrose,  carries  on  this  story,  although 
there  isn't  really  an  integral  plot.  Many  new  characters  are  intro- 
duced and  all  have  but  one  function  besides  the  inevitable  sexual 
debauchery;  they  are  all  actuated  by  the  caprice  of  play-acting. 
Nerciat  boasts  that  his  characters  are  not  the  usual  simple  creations, 
utterly  clear,  calculable  and  of  one  cloth,  but  are  rare  mixtures  of 
virtues  and  infirmities.  They  make  swift  and  constant  transitions 
from  sorrow  to  joy,  from  lust  to  regret,  from  wrath  to  tenderness. 
They  are  half  chastity  and  half  corruption,  of  the  sort  that  it  is  a 
unique  achievement  to  escape  in  the  metropolis,  especially  if  one 
has  the  inclination  and  the  means  of  gratifying  it.  In  this  tale  Felicia 
has  already  been  advanced  to  the  presidency  of  the  profligate  love 
society.  An  added  point  of  interest  in  this  book  is  that  the  her- 
maphrodite, Nicelte,  probably  served  as  the  model  for  Zambinella, 
in  Balzac's  short  story  Sarrazine. 

In  My  Novitiate,  the  author  describes  the  experiences  of  a  daugh- 
ter of  joy  in  his  own  peculiar  compound  of  clever  sophistry  and 
licentiousness.  Better  known  is  the  book  with  the  amazing  title 
The  Devil  in  Him.  This  story,  like  all  of  Nerciat's  work,  is  strongly 
interwoven  with  dialogues  and  contains  some  pretty  broad  ex- 
pressions. A  pair  of  dissolute  women  who  engage  in  monstrous 
practices:  the  Marquise  and  her  friend.  Countess  Motte-en-feu; 
a  German  prelate  whose  life  work  consists  in  purveying  most  un- 
equivocal knightly  services  to  pretty  women;  the  lovely  Mme. 

ISl 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
Couplet,  the  most  refined  brothel  mistress  in  all  Paris.  The  worthy- 
abbot  and  his  monks  all  of  whom  must  bring  sacrifices  to  the  love 
altar  of  the  little  Countess;  Nicola,  the  earnest  and  jealous;  and 
Phillipine,  the  soft  and  amorous  servant  of  the  Marquise — both  of 
whom  emulate  the  example  of  their  mistress;  the  always  faithful 
Hector,  alias  Bel-amour;  and  the  boy  Felix  who  has  long  since 
ceased  being  a  boy.  There  is  also  the  amusing  phenomenon  of  the 
Capuchin  who  fears  nothing  and  is  able  to  cure  the  Marquise 
afflicted  with  a  fever;  the  negro  Zamer;  and  finally,  the  ass.  This 
concludes  the  enumeration  of  the  characters  who  go  through  their 
merry  pranks  in  this  book. 

This  novel  portrays  the  moral  coloring  of  the  French  society 
that  he  saw  and  there  are  very  few  invented  or  imagined  elements 
in  this  work.  The  same  is  true  of  the  next  book  to  be  considered, 
which  is  not  quite  as  accurate,  but  nevertheless  based  upon  con- 
temporary facts.  It  is  Les  Aphrodites.  The  Aphrodites,  also  known 
as  Morosophs,  were  a  society  of  men  and  women  current  in  the 
reign  of  Phillip  of  Orleans.  At  first  they  met  in  Paris  on  the  slope 
of  the  valley  of  Montmorency  under  the  chairmanship  of  a  certain 
Marquis  de  Person.  The  purpose  of  the  society  was  simply  the 
gratification  of  sensual  lusts.  These  actual  circumstances  formed 
the  skeleton  of  Nerciat's  novel.  He  added  some  fictitious  material 
to  the  plot  and  embroidered  everything  with  fragments  of  his  own 
eclectic  sophistries. 

A  summary  of  Les  Aphrodites  follows: 

The  chevalier  dismounts  from  his  horse  and  enters  a  villa  before 
the  gates  of  Paris.  Two  servitors,  one  dumb  and  the  other  deaf,  lead 
him  to  the  landlady  of  this  house  of  joy.  Mme.  Durut  receives  the 
guest  joyfully;  for  it  was  she  who  had  inducted  him  into  the  mys- 
teries of  love  four  years  ago,  and  since  that  time  she  has  not  seen  him. 
Durut  lets  him  examine  and  adore  every  one  of  her  charms,  for 

182 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
despite  her  thirty-six  years  she  still  knows  how  to  captivate  men. 
Then  she  brings  him  to  a  boudoir  where  a  negress  washes  him  and 
a  maid  soothes  him  with  chocolate.  In  the  meantime  the  proud  and 
high-spirited  Duchess  de  Enginieres  enters  to  keep  a  rendezvous 
with  a  certain  count.  She  is  disgruntled  at  being  kept  waiting  and 
orders  a  bath  prepared  in  the  meantime,  to  be  accompanied  by 
appropriate  reading.  Mme.  Durut  brings  her  Mirabeau's  My  Con- 
version and  Le  Fils  d'Hercule;  the  first  is  rejected  by  the  noble- 
woman because  its  author,  himself  a  nobleman,  had  taken  active 
part  in  the  revolution.  Durut  now  weaves  a  new  intrigue.  She 
arouses  interest  of  the  duchess  in  the  chevalier  whom  she  speaks  of 
as  her  nephew  and  calls  him  in  on  the  pretext  that  the  duchess  is 
a  famous  actress  who  can  help  him  get  a  place  in  her  company. 
Durut  presently  leaves  the  two  alone  and  the  chevalier  acts  the 
chambermaid  when  the  duchess  leaves  her  bath.  She  now  suggests 
that  the  young  man  who  has  pleased  her  shall  enter  the  bath;  the 
chevalier  plays  the  part  of  a  real  lover  despite  her  struggles,  which 
arouses  her  fury  since  she  regards  the  love  of  any  but  a  nobleman 
as  an  abomination.  In  the  meantime,  the  expected  count,  the  real 
lover  of  the  duchess,  arrives  but  Durut  receives  him  and  knows  how 
to  detain  him  from  disturbing  the  pastime  of  the  duchess.  She  sends 
him  Celestine,  her  supposed  step-sister,  who  arouses  the  count  to 
a  double  sacrifice.  During  this  love  episode  Durut  hurries  to  the 
duchess  and  the  chevalier  and  informs  the  lady  that  he  is  really  a 
nobleman.  Whereupon  the  latter  is  relieved  and  overjoyed.  Mean- 
while the  count,  who  has  tired  of  waiting,  comes  in  and  is  witness 
to  his  defeat.  A  duel  appears  unavoidable,  but  the  cunning  Durut 
knows  how  to  mollify  the  rivals.  At  a  sumptuous  repast  to  which 
Celestine  is  also  invited,  the  roles  are  exchanged.  The  duchess 
chooses  the  count  and  the  chevalier,  Celestine,  so  that  general 
satisfaction  is  achieved.  After  the  guests  have  gone,  Durut  remains 

i83 


THE  EKOTIC  MISTOEY  OF  FEANCE 
alone  with  Celestine  and  they  go  over  their  account  to  discover 
that  this  month  has  brought  them  a  surplus  of  1200  livres.  The 
outstanding  debts  are  discussed  and  the  perverse  erotic  practices 
of  certain  members  come  in  for  full  discussion. 

The  next  visitor  is  the  Marquise  Fieremotte  who  is  looking  for 
a  travelling  companion.  Durut  has  suggested  M.  de  Limecoeur  and 
while  they  are  waiting  for  him,  the  marquise  spends  her  time  with 
Bel-amour  in  reading  the  eroticon  Matinee  Libertine.  Limecoeur 
arrives  punctually,  but  the  post  doesn't  suit  him  and  he  declines 
the  offer.  The  disappointed  panderess  notifies  the  marquise  of  his 
decision;  she  desires  to  speak  with  him  herself,  only  they  must 
both  be  masked.  Limecoeur  is  given  a  comfortable  sleeping  outfit 
and  is  led  to  the  marquise.  Her  voice  captivates  him  at  once  and 
he  ravishes  her.  However,  to  punish  him  for  his  initial  reluctance 
the  marquise  slips  away  with  the  help  of  Durut.  They  inform  him 
that  she  has  already  journeyed  to  Paris  in  her  chariot  and  that  she 
is  ugly  as  night  but  he  will  not  renounce  his  passion. 

The  next  chapter  introduces  us  to  M.  de  Trottignac  who,  because 
he  is  such  a  swaggerer,  has  been  hurled  into  a  cage.  A  physician 
examines  him  to  see  whether  he  is  infected.  Then  Celestine  tests 
his  virility  by  hanging  a  1 50-lb.  weight  upon  his  tumescent  organ, 
which  the  athlete  easily  carries  for  three  minutes.  At  the  recom- 
mendation of  another  member  he  is  accepted.  Next  morning 
madame  looks  up  the  marquise  and  discovers  that  she  has  come  to  an 
agreement  with  Limecoeur.  Now  Durut  plays  the  panderess  and 
instead  of  Bel-amour  she  sends  her  the  Chevalier  Alfons  whom 
we've  met  above,  disguised  as  a  servitor.  The  latter  succeeds  in 
achieving  his  goal  which  is  eternally  one.  In  the  meantime  Lime- 
coeur has  gone  off  to  Paris. 

The  early  scenes  of  the  second  volume  are  enacted  at  a  country 
house  near  Paris.  Mme.  de  Montchaud  confesses  to  her  cousin, 

1S4 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
Mme.  Valcreux,  that  her  deceased  husband  had  been  insufficient 
for  her  temperament  and  that  the  thirty-seven  monks  of  the 
cloister  had  been  collaborators.  Mme.  Durut  enters  and  brings 
Mme.  Valcreux  an  enormous  godemiche,  which  the  latter  promptly 
appropriates;  with  the  aid  of  her  cousin  a  trial  performance  is  forth- 
with instituted.  Through  Durut,  Mme.  de  Montchaud  makes  an  ap- 
pointment with  Trottignac  but  can't  get  an  earlier  date  than  the 
following  Sunday  for  he  has  a  very  crowded  calendar.  Then 
Countess  Motte-au-feu  comes  upon  the  scene  and  relates  to  Mme. 
Durut  the  number  of  her  lovers.  For  twenty  years,  from  her  first 
day  to  the  present,  there  are  4959 — which  does  not  give  one  even 
a  day,  she  complains.  But  she  reads  the  names,  recruited  from  every 
conceivable  class,  princes,  nobles,  prelates,  officers,  judges,  monks, 
soldiers,  servants,  negroes,  mulattoes  and  many  of  unknown  occu- 
pation   

There  are  numerous  other  episodes  which  shall  not  be  mentioned 
here.  Not  many  of  these  are  distinguished  for  their  high  tone  and 
very  little  is  to  be  gained  by  spending  time  over  such  matters.  The 
important  point  to  be  remembered  is  that  this  novel  was  as  common 
to  eighteenth-century  France  as  dozens  of  best  sellers  are  in  the 
United  States.  It  reflects  and  sets  in  high  relief  the  customs  of  the 
country,  for  literature  and  manners  go  hand  in  hand.  When  litera- 
ture turns  from  the  trivial  to  the  erotic  and  then  to  the  licentious, 
we  shall  merely  report  the  latter  without  giving  it  any  detail  or 
length  of  description. 

MARQUIS  DE  SADE 

The  erotic  literature  of  the  gallant  period  reached  its  culmination 
in  the  Marquis  de  Sade.  In  his  work  there  is  found  everything  that 

1S5 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FKANCE 
an  imagination  wallowing  in  the  cesspools  of  the  most  offensive 
vileness  could  conjure  up — a  reversal  of  all  values.  The  good  is 
trampled  in  the  dirt,  but  a  hymn  of  praise  is  sung  to  baseness,  and 
the  scum  of  the  earth  are  now  regarded  as  the  leading  and  illustri- 
ous spirits  and  as  paragons  of  conduct.  What  a  dissolute,  infernally 
clever  fancy  could  invent  in  the  way  of  crime  and  disgusting 
scenes,  is  recommended  to  the  world  with  grinful  delight  and  dia- 
bolical animality  as  the  only  laudable  condition.  To  this  monster 
nothing  was  holy  or  noble;  he  touched  nothing  that  he  did  not  soil. 
Human  honor,  an  empty  word  without  content.  Men  are  only  to  be 
considered  insofar  as  they  can  serve  a  hellish  passion  which  is  gener- 
ated to  its  highest  voltage  by  the  sight  of  the  most  horrible  pains 
inflicted  upon  some  one  else.  The  delight  of  this  voluptuary  could 
only  be  purchased  with  the  pain  of  another.  A  woman's  sensation 
of  pleasure  can  sometimes  be  shammed,  but  her  pain  never.  Cruelty 
is  the  highest  virtue  especially  when  it  is  tied  up  with  sexual  activi- 
ty. Nothing  is  so  monstrous  that  it  cannot  become  a  source  of  joy. 
He  delights  in  bloody  corpses,  children  torn  from  the  arms  of  their 
mothers,  girls  burned  at  the  end  of  an  orgy;  goblets  filled  with 
blood  and  wine;  and  all  sorts  of  unheard  of  tortures.  Caldrons  boil, 
torture  benches  are  made  ready,  and  the  skin  is  torn  of  the  living 
flesh.  There  are  shouts  and  curses;  people  bite  each  and  literally 
tear  each  other's  hearts  out.  And  this  continues  incessantly  through 
every  page  of  ten  interminable  volumes. 

God,  religion,  ethical  commandments  are  butts  for  a  horrible  art, 
and  serve  only  to  heighten  passion.  The  servants  of  the  church  were 
themselves  the  accomplices  in  these  disgusting  debauches  and  prac- 
tices. It  is  they,  principally,  who  cannot  do  enough  in  the  way  of 
mocking  repulsively  at  the  precepts  of  religion  and  morals.  When 
one  thinks  of  this,  obscenities,  cruelties  and  blasphemies  combined 
and  served  up  with  a  devilish  philosophy,  many  of  the  scenes  based 

186 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
on  actually  experienced  incidents,  the  example  of  a  corrupt  society 
always  before  the  eye,  a  society  whose  members  sought  to  surpass 
each  other  only  in  profligacy,  who  clamored  for  the  sweet  poison 
of  pornography  in  all  the  relationships  of  life  and  hailed  every  one 
that  could  purvey  a  new  variation  of  pleasure,  one  cannot  be  sur- 
prised that  the  revolution  came  and  indeed  had  to  come. . .  The 
corrupting  influence  of  an  imagination  operating  with  the  most 
unthinkable  cruelties  had  to  make  itself  felt  finally.  This  condition 
spread  from  so-called  society  down  to  the  people  and  after  cruelty 
had  been  praised  as  the  stimulant  of  passion  and  practiced  to  a 
small  degree,  then  the  blood-shedding  of  the  reign  of  terror  was 
only  a  magnification  of  the  same  doctrine  by  the  larger  group  that 
had  become  infected  by  it.  If  the  former  had  had  to  see  suffering 
and  blood  in  order  to  be  merry,  then  Robespierre  and  his  associates 
found  no  less  joy  and  passion  when  the  heads  clattered  down  by  the 
dozens  from  the  sharp  knife  of  the  guillotine. 

De  Sade  fitted  into  such  an  age  and  was  its  typical  representative. 
You  may  recall  Flaubert's  forceful  judgment  about  him,  that  he  was 
the  last  word  of  the  medieval  and  Renaissance  Church  for  in  him 
spake  the  spirit  of  the  inquisition,  of  punishment  by  torture,  of 
aversion  to  nature.  In  1791  there  appeared  his  Justine  which  in  the 
first  edition  is  only  obscene  and  does  not  contain  the  blood-drenched 
incidents  of  subsequent  editions.  The  year  1797  saw  the  edition  of 
Justine  and  Juliette — with  104  horrible  illustrations  both  as  regards 
subject  and  execution.  De  Sade  was  well  aware  of  his  destructive 
contribution  and  in  his  foreword  he  remarks  that  virtue  might  well 
forget  to  wipe  her  tears  in  pride  that  France  should  possess  such  a 
significant  work,  one  that  combines  the  most  cynical  language  with 
the  strongest  and  most  daring  system  of  immoral  and  blasphemous 
ideas.  The  tendency  of  his  infamous  book  is  meager  enough.  In 
Justine  virtue,  represented  by  Justine  is  very  unfortunate,  falls  into 

187 


THE  EEOTIC  MISTOMY  OF  FEANCE 
evil  and  crime.  The  good  fortune  of  vice  is  portrayed  in  horrible 
pictures.  The  basic  thought  is  that  either  there  is  no  God  or  else  He 
is  not  concerned  A\^ith  the  welfare  of  man,  else  virtue  would  not 
suffer  so  much  here  on  earth,  nor  would  vice  have  such  triumphs. 
He  adds  iniquitously:  "Will  not  men  say  that  when  virtue  is 
followed  by  misfortune  and  vice  by  prosperity  that  it  is  better  to  go 
with  the  scoundrels  who  are  favored  by  nature  than  with  the  vir- 
tuous who  meet  with  ruin?  In  order  to  bolster  up  this  point  of  view 
— there  is  no  point  in  concealing  it — we  wish  to  give  to  the  world 
the  story  of  Justine.  Maybe  this  will  induce  those  fools  to  quit 
praying  to  that  ridiculous  idol  of  virtue  which  will  only  reward 
them  with  ingratitude;  and  will  strengthen  in  the  opposite  belief 
those  sensible  folk  who  always  see  the  amazing  examples  of  happi- 
ness and  fortune  which  crime  and  debauchery  almost  invariably 
bring  in  their  wake."  And  how  much  monstrous  evil  there  is  in  this 
grimace.  "It  is  undoubtedly  painful  to  have  to  recount  the  dreadful 
misfortunes  that  pour  upon  the  gentle  and  sensitive  woman  who 
hearkens  entirely  to  the  voice  of  virtue;  and  on  the  other  hand  to 
demonstrate  that  those  who  persecute  this  very  woman  and  drive 
her  to  death,  enjoy  great  happiness.  But  the  author  who  is  enough 
of  a  philosopher  to  be  able  to  tell  the  truth  stands  above  these  un- 
pleasantnesses. Coerced  by  necessity,  to  cruelty,  he  tears  down  with 
merciless  hands  the  superstitious  veils  with  which  stupidity  seeks 
to  beautify  virtue,  and  shows  to  the  ignorant  man,  who  has  been 
gulled  until  now,  vice  with  all  the  charms  and  joys  that  follow  from 
it  uninterruptedly.  For  these  reasons  we  shall  describe  crime  in  the 
most  cynical  language  and  with  the  most  immoral  and  godless 
ideas,  crime  as  it  is,  triumphant,  always  satisfied  and  always  happy; 
whereas  virtue  shall  be  seen  as  eternally  unhappy,  and  persecuted." 
In  the  same  style  as  Sade's  larger  work  is  his  Philosophy  m  the 
Boudoir.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  Mirabeau's  Education  of  Laura  gave 

188 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
Sade  the  impetus  and  perhaps  the  idea  to  compose  this  work.  The 
education  of  a  young  girl  to  vice  is  represented  in  the  form  of 
dialogues  and  long  quasi-academic  speeches,  only  punctuated  every 
so  often  by  the  practical  demonstration  and  application  of  the 
theoretic  principle  so  discussed.  A  few  words  about  the  contents 
may  not  be  irrelevant.  In  the  first  conversation  there  appears  Mme. 
de  St.  Ange  and  her  brother,  Chevalier  de  Mirvel.  The  lady  is  a 
Juliette  type  who  poisons  everything  she  touches  and  her  brother 
is  far  inferior  to  her.  The  scene  is  dominated  by  Dolmance,  a 
thoroughbred  in  vice,  cynic,  pederast  and  atheist.  Eugenie  de  Alist- 
val,  a  young  girl,  is  being  expected.  Mme.  St.  Ange  had  corrupted 
her  so  far  theoretically  that  only  a  bit  of  practice  is  necessary  for 
her  to  be  a  real  prostitute.  In  the  course  of  a  single  afternoon  she  is 
duly  initiated  into  all  the  mysteries  of  sex  life.  Later  others  are 
added  to  the  corps  of  instructors  in  the  applied  art,  the  Chevalier, 
a  gardener  boy,  and  the  idiot  Augustin,  so  that  Eugenie  learns  the 
arrangement  of  obscene  groups.  Towards  evening,  when  Eugenie 
has  already  become  a  ferocious  erotic  monster,  her  mother  comes 
in.  In  the  sight  of  her  exulting  daughter  she  is  monstrously  raped, 
infected  with  syphilis  by  the  slave  Lapierre,  and  before  they  go  to 
the  table,  Eugenie  must  carry  out  the  operation  of  infibulation  upon 
her  mother. 

Another  of  his  books.  Aline  and  Valcoiir  reminds  one  very 
strongly  of  the  Justine.  Valcour,  a  virtuous  young  man  loves  Aline, 
the  lovely  daughter  of  the  gentle  wife  of  the  cruel  President  de 
Blamont.  The  latter  desires  his  daughter  to  marry  the  old  debauche 
Dalbourg,  to  which  old  man  he  had  already  given  the  virtuous 
Sophie  whom  he  regarded  as  his  own  daughter,  for  a  mistress.  He 
yearns  to  have  his  plan  succeed  for  a  vile  reason.  After  the  marriage 
he  intends  to  give  his  own  wife,  Mme.  de  Blamont,  to  Dalbourg 
for  a  lover,  and  in  return  he  wants  to  get  the  latter's  wife,  namely 

1S9 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 

his  o\\Ti  daughter  AHne,  as  his  lover.  The  plan  fails.  Aline  kills 
herself  and  her  mother  is  poisoned  at  the  command  of  her  husband. 
Valcour  enters  a  monastery.  Dalbourg  becomes  \artuous  and  the 
President  must  flee.  In  Rosa  and  Leonore  there  are  represented  two 
foul  hussies.  The  latter  especially  is  always  in  luck  and  is  a  sort  of 
pendant  to  Juliette. 

Sade  also  wrote  a  pamphlet  against  Napoleon  which  earned  for 
him  the  enmity  of  the  mighty  Corsican.  It  is  Xoloe  and  her  Acolytes 
and  deals  with  the  debaucheries  of  Napoleon  and  his  circle.  Zoloe 
represents  Josephine  and  the  two  acolytes,  Lameda  and  Volsange, 
symbolize  Mesdames  Tallien  and  Visconti.  In  very  sluttish  style, 
Sade  relates  the  orgies  of  these  three  women  with  three  male  part- 
ners. So  far  as  obscenity  goes,  Sade  does  not  surpass  any  of  his  con- 
temporaries. It  was  not  immorality,  but  the  satirical  sallies  against 
Napoleon  and  his  circle  that  aroused  the  ire  of  the  ruler.  When  the 
story  appeared  in  1800,  a  tremendous  scandal  ensued.  Practically 
all  the  characters  were  easily  recognizable.  Thus  d'Orsac,  anagram 
for  de  Corse,  was  Napoleon.  Sabar  stood  for  Barras,  etc.  In  1 80 1 , 
while  Sade  was  visiting  his  publisher  and  discussing  the  rewritten 
Juliette  which  he  had  brought  with  him,  he  was  arrested.  He  was 
kept  prisoner  in  the  Hospital  of  Charenton  where  he  died  on 
December  2,  18 14  at  the  age  of  75.  It  is  very  interesting  to  note 
that  Sade  sent  a  de  luxe  copy  of  Justine  to  the  consul  and  his  two 
foremost  assistants  in  the  state,  and  that  Napoleon  had  no  other 
punishment  for  this  immense  boldness  than  to  consign  the  work  to 
the  fire. 

About  thirty  years  ago.  Dr.  Iwan  Bloch,  the  world's  foremost 
authority  on  Sade,  found  another  work  of  Sade's  which  had  been 
preserved  in  ms.  only:  The  120  days  of  Sodom.  This  ms.  has  a  rich 
history.  Although  it  was  well  known  that  Sade  had  written  such  a 
work,  it  was  held  to  be  lost  because  in  1832  the  ms.  of  an  unedited 

190 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
work  of  Sade's  was  burnt  in  the  presence  of  the  latter's  son,  and  this 
was  presumed  to  be  Les  120  Joiirnees  de  Sodome.  However,  it  must 
have  been  another,  for  Bloch  was  able  to  find  this  ms.  Sade  wrote 
it  while  he  was  in  the  Bastille,  in  36  days  between  October  22  to 
November  27,  1785.  He  worked  at  it  three  hours  daily  between  7 
and  10  in  the  evening  and  wrote  in  loose  papers  which  he  pasted 
end  to  end  until  he  had  a  roll  1 2  meters  long.  Inasmuch  as  he  lacked 
paper,  he  wrote  on  the  reverse  side  of  the  roll  as  well.  Thus  the  ms. 
in  its  final  form  is  a  roll  of  strips  written  on  both  sides.  When  the 
Marquis  left  the  Bastille  in  1789  this  ms.,  together  with  other  of 
his  works,  remained  there.  It  finally  came  into  the  possession  of  the 
family  Villeneuve-Trans  where  it  stayed  for  three  generations  until 
Bloch  found  it.  But  no  customer  was  found  for  it.  A  young  German 
novelist  succeeded  in  deciphering  the  almost  microscopic  writing, 
now  almost  illegible  through  age.  The  book  seems  undoubtedly  to 
be  the  one  referred  to  by  Restif  de  la  Bretonne,  and  the  internal 
evidence  is  almost  irrefutable.  The  peculiarities  of  his  sentence 
structure,  tropes  of  speech,  and  narrative  manner  are  perfectly  in 
evidence  here.  And  above  all  there  is  the  peculiar  defense  of  the 
most  profligate  passion  so  idiopathic  of  Sade,  which  comes  to  clearer 
expression  here  than  in  any  other  work.  The  plan  of  this  book  has 
come  down  to  us  and  although  only  a  part  of  it  lies  completed  in 
the  120  Days,  we  can  see  that  this  book  was  conceived  on  a  far 
larger  scale  than  even  the  comprehensive  Justine.  All  conceivable 
perversions  were  to  be  illustrated  through  600  examples.  The  plan 
of  the  story  is  the  following.  Four  wealthy  rakes,  too  blase  to  find 
any  joy  in  the  ordinary  pleasures  of  life,  join  forces  in  a  most 
unusual  and  passionate  undertaking.  They  have  panders  and  pan- 
deresses  journey  all  through  France  to  abduct  the  handsomest  boys 
and  prettiest  girls  from  the  richest  and  most  distinguished  families. 
From  this  collection  the  most  attractive  are  chosen  and  with  other 

191 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FHANCE 
objects  of  lust  are  brought  to  an  inaccessible  mountain  castle  belong- 
ing to  one  of  the  voluptuaries.  In  this  castle  they  immure  themselves 
with  their  victims.  All  entrances  are  walled  up  and  the  only  bridge 
that  connects  the  castle  with  the  outside  world  is  broken  down.  And 
now,  secure  from  any  surprise  or  interruption  in  this  marvellously 
constructed  castle,  appointed  with  every  luxury  and  every  think- 
able necessity,  they  are  ready  for  the  beginning  of  the  most  extra- 
ordinary orgies.  Four  of  the  most  experienced  brothel  mistresses 
of  Paris  have  the  duty  of  relating  in  assigned  order  and  in  full 
detail,  the  experiences  of  their  life.  In  the  course  of  a  month  each 
woman  will  have  told  150  stories  of  the  most  interesting  cases  of 
sexual  perversions  in  her  experience.  In  all,  then,  there  were  to  be 
600  different  tales  of  sexual  profligacy,  systematically  ordered,  and 
proceeding  in  the  direction  of  ever  greater  and  rarer  perversions. 
In  this  way  the  whole  great  realm  of  Psychopathia  sexualis  is  un- 
rolled before  us,  clearly  and  thoroughly.  During  these  narratives 
the  human  objects,  of  the  debauchees'  lust  of  both  sexes  and  every 
age,  are  kept  on  hand  so  that  whatever  sex  urge  is  roused  in  them 
by  any  of  the  stories,  may  immediately  be  gratified. 

RESTIF  DE  LA  BRETONNE 

Sade's  antipode  and  yet  like  him  in  many  ways,  except  in  the  cruelty 
typical  of  Sade,  is  Restif  de  la  Bretonne,  whose  printed  works  num- 
ber two  hundred  and  twelve  volumes.  He  is  as  much  of  a  grapho- 
maniac  as  Sade.  He  writes  about  his  life,  his  experiences  from  day 
to  day  without  inventing  much.  He  doesn't  see  anything  objection- 
able in  using  his  own  correspondence  and  does  not  even  halt  at 
giving  the  names  of  people.  He  desires  to  portray  the  truth:  "/^  dois 
et  je  ne  dois  rien  dire  que  la  verite,  jiit-elle  impertinentey  And  im- 
pertinent it  certainly  was  on  innumerable  occasions,  for  Restif  was 

192 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUMY 
also  an  erotomaniac.  Women  had  to  give  content  to  his  life  and  with- 
out them  life  was  empty.  Hence  his  whole  existence  revolved  about 
them,  the  bringers  of  joy  and  the  sources  of  happiness;  in  short,  his 
life  was  fixed  by  the  sexual.  Eulenberg's  judgment  about  him  was 
that  he  was  goaded  by  the  wildest  sensuality  and  driven  by  the 
idolatrous  worship  of  his  own  self  to  a  sort  of  exhibitionism.  For 
that  reason  he  was  able  as  no  other  to  analyze  the  origin  and  dis- 
tinctiveness and  demoniac  force  of  sexual  love  and  to  devote  to  his 
ego  a  most  refined  cultivation. 

Thus  he  relates  the  story  of  his  life  in  sixteen  volumes,  entitled 
Monsieur  Nicolas,  which  is  nothing  more  than  the  narrative  of  his 
erotic  achievements.  In  the  thirteenth  volume  he  keeps  a  diary  of 
all  the  women  whose  acquaintance  he  had  made,  had  seduced  and 
impregnated.  Very  likely  anecdotes  and  experiences  of  others  are 
woven  into  it,  for  Count  Tilly  once  mentioned  that  Restif ,  who  had 
never  met  him,  had  once  requested  the  story  of  certain  of  the  count's 
amorous  exploits,  which  the  latter  very  decidedly  refused  to  impart. 
Despite  the  not  infrequent  obscenities  and  the  free  scenes,  a  very 
definite  value  attaches  to  the  work.  Schiller  held  it  in  high  regard, 
and  in  1789  wrote  to  Goethe  to  inquire  whether  the  latter  had  ever 
read  the  unusual  work  of  Restif. 

"I  have  already  read  it  and  despite  much  that  is  flat,  distaste- 
ful or  even  revolting,  have  nevertheless  greatly  enjoyed  it.  For 
I  have  never  come  across  a  nature  so  sensual;  and  one  must  also 
be  interested  in  the  multitude  of  characters,  particularly  fe- 
male, the  vitality  and  contemporaneity  of  the  writing,  and  the 
depiction  of  the  moral  life  of  certain  classes  of  the  French  peo- 
ple. For  one  who  has  so  little  opportunity  to  draw  from  outside 
sources  and  to  study  men  in  real  life,  such  a  book  has  incalcul- 
able value." 

Another  work  of  Restif  is  also  well  known.  The  Contemporaries, 
in  seventeen  volumes.  These  are  a  series  of  tales  based  on  experiences 

193 


^ 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
and  pictures  of  moral  conditions.  According  to  the  established 
formula,  Restif  wishes  to  employ  Catullus'  phrase  upon  himself: 
Lasciva  nobis  pagina,  vita  proba.  In  the  preface  he  says:  "If  science 
is  deserving  of  respect,  the  same  can  certainly  not  be  asserted  of 
false  modesty.  The  Contemporaries  is  a  piece  of  moral  medicine. 
Should  the  details  appear  ribald,  it  is  in  its  essentials  desening  of 
respect  and  is  destined  for  a  career  of  great  moral  usefulness.  For 
what  is  a  novelist?  The  painter  of  moral  conditions.  Now  morals  are 
corrupt.  Shall  I  then  depict  the  morals  of  an  ideal  creature?  You  re- 
spectable ladies,  hold  your  nose  against  this  thoroughly  hypocritical 
public  morality,  those  infamous  double  entendres,  those  free  ges- 
tures, those  shameless  expressions  that  men  permit  themselves  to 
say  in  your  presences  and  before  your  daughters  as  w^ell.  But  do  not 
account  it  a  crime  if  a  courageous  waiter  who,  serving  a  moral 
purpose,  dares  to  hold  a  mirror  to  vice  in  order  to  bring  you  know- 
ledge, uses  perforce  revolting  matters,  in  order  ultimately  to  im- 
prove them."  But,  despite  these  emphatic  words,  we  feel  in  every 
line  what  utter  joy  he  finds  in  tarrying  over  the  most  intimate 
things,  and  what  expansiveness  must  be  his  as  he  indulges  himself 
in  the  broadest  drawing  of  the  most  immoral  incidents  and  situa- 
tions. The  end  is  supposed  to  sanctify  the  means,  but  the  end  is 
no  whit  better  than  the  means  employed. 

In  succeeding  works,  The  Ruined  Sivain  and  The  Ruined  Lass, 
he  intendes  to  demonstrate  that  even  the  most  exalted  goodness 
must  necessarily  go  to  the  dogs  when  touched  by  vice.  Here  is  the 
most  bizarre  collection  of  adventures  and  characters  possible;  and  in 
addition  the  milieu  is  constantly  changing.  Restif  leads  us  to  public 
houses,  churches,  free  spirits,  salons  of  worldly  ladies,  boudoirs  of 
prostitutes  and,  with  most  deUght,  to  the  brothel.  The  book  is  writ- 
ten in  the  form  of  letters  and  consists  of  scenes  but  loosely  joined 
together.  The  characters  are  well  drawn  and  vve  feel  that  he  has 

194 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
modelled  them  from  life.  These  books  he  considered  his  best,  writ- 
ten not  only  for  his  own  time  but  for  subsequent  generations  as  well. 
But  it  was  just  these  two  novels  that  got  him  into  difficulties  with 
the  police  and  especially  with  the  censor,  who  delayed  their  pub- 
lication for  two  years.  It  required  continued  efforts  and  the  enor- 
mous persistency  of  Restif,  to  free  his  book.  He  himself  tells  of 
seventy-two  fruitless  visits  to  the  police.  The  animosity  against 
these  novels  appears  strange  in  view  of  the  fact  that  so  many  other 
scandals  of  far  worse  and  reprehensible  quality  were  passed  without 
a  murmur. 

The  next  book  to  be  mentioned  took  Restif  20  years  to  write. 
The  Nights  of  Paris  occupied  every  morning  of  these  years.  Here- 
in were  inscribed  that  which  he  had  seen  and  lived  through  the 
night  before.  Hence  these  eight  volumes  constitute  an  excellent 
account  of  the  moral  situation  of  the  time. 

In  the  higmue  Saxancous,  he  worked  in  the  style  of  Sade.  The 
book  is  supposed  to  tell  the  story  of  his  daughter  who  had  made  a 
very  unhappy  marriage.  After  the  wedding  she  has  to  give  herself 
to  the  most  profligate  whims  of  her  husband,  a  rake  of  the  worst 
order,  and  suffers  the  most  incredible  cruelties.  Naturally  the 
material  is  such  that  there  is  no  lack  of  obscenity,  cynicism  or 
cruelty;  but  none  the  less  Dumas  borrowed  very  much  from  this 
story  for  his  own  Ingenue. 

If  Restif  follows  Sade  here,  he  took  up  arms  against  him  in  an- 
other work  where  he  scored  Sade's  horrible  imagination.  This  erotic 
polemical  tract  was  entitled  Anti- Justine.  This  work  was  mapped 
out  on  a  very  large  scale  but  of  eight  sections  planned,  only  one  and 
a  fraction  were  completed.  It  is  said  that  Restif  finished  six  copies 
in  his  own  underground  press,  of  which  number  the  secret  division 
of  the  Paris  National  Library  has  about  a  half.  La  Bedoyere  was  the 
first  to  possess  an  original.  Another  was  in  the  possession  of  Cigognes 

195 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FRANCE 
who  sold  it  to  the  Duke  of  Aumale,  whence  it  went  to  Frederick 
Hankey  for  2000  francs.  All  the  books  of  the  latter  later  came  into 
the  possession  of  Pisanus  Fraxi,  who  left  his  library  to  the  British 
Museum,  where  there  is  probably  a  copy  of  the  original.  As  in  all  his 
works,  Restif  represents  himself  in  such  a  stupid  fashion  that  the 
reader  is  at  once  repelled.  TTiere  is  no  development  of  character,  no 
serious  thought,  only  a  piling  up  of  erotic  situations,  pure  pomology, 
only  so  improbable  and  so  horribly  tiresome!  The  very  titles  are 
so  vile  that  we  forbear  to  mention  them.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  incestu- 
ous relations  between  father  and  daughter  as  well  as  between 
mother  and  son  occupy  a  large  place  here. 

The  obscenities  with  which  the  Anti-Justine  is  swollen  were 
supposed  to  have  been  written  for  a  moral  purpose!  Restif  remarks 
in  the  preface  to  this  book:  "No  one  has  been  more  irritated  than  I 
by  the  dirty  works  of  the  hideous  Marquis  de  Sade — that  is,  the 
Justine,  Boudoir,  and  Theory  of  Passion — which  I  read  while  in 
prison.  This  devil  has  represented  the  delights  of  love  forever  ac- 
companied by  torture  and  murder.  My  purpose  is  to  write  a  book 
that  will  be  juicier  than  the  others,  one  that  women  can  confidently 
put  into  the  hands  of  their  husbands  in  order  the  better  to  be  served 
by  them;  a  book  in  which  the  heart  will  have  its  place  by  the  side 
of  the  senses,  in  which  passion  knows  no  cruelty;  in  which  love  con- 
ceived naturally  without  any  affection  or  hesitation  conjures  up 
only  gay  and  joyous  pictures.  When  one  has  read  it  one  will  wor- 
ship woman,  and  after  one  has  enjoyed  her,  one  will  deify  her.  It  is 
to  be  hoped  that  when  that  manslaughterer,  Sade,  will  be  dragged 
from  jail  on  July  14,  1789  a  whitebearded  old  man,  he  will  be  de- 
tested according  to  his  deserts.  May  my  charming  work  which  I  am 
herewith  publishing  annihilate  his  own;  it  is  a  bad  book,  perhaps, 
but  written  with  a  good  purpose.  Thus,  I  have  only  introduced 

196 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY 
incest  in  order  to  supplant  those  cruelties  with  which  Sade  gal- 
vanizes the  senses  of  the  enervated  roues." 

Restif  followed  this  intention  and  purveyed  the  coarsest  and 
foulest  depictions  of  passion  possible.  He  was  not  by  any  means 
content  with  following  the  established  custom  of  the  time  of  the 
erotic  writer,  who  has  the  tyro  inaugurate  his  sex  life  by  witnessing 
an  erotic  scene  between  his  parents,  or  a  pair  of  lovers.  Oh,  no, 
that  will  never  do.  He  starts  right  off  with  perversities.  First,  his 
eight  sisters  are  the  objects  of  his  youthful  lust;  then,  he  accidentally 
cohabits  with  his  mother;  and  finally,  the  father  seduces  his  own 
daughter;  but  "seducing"  is  hardly  the  word,  for  they  give  them- 
selves gladly  and  are  as  profligate  as  the  narrator.  In  addition  to  his 
love  for  beautiful  feet  and  shoes,  Restif  seems  to  have  had  a  special 
predilection  for  ciinnilingus,  for  this  form  of  sex  satisfaction  comes 
in  for  much  attention.  What  is  worse,  he  even  has  a  scene  after  the 
fashion  of  the  degenerated  Sade.  A  rascal  by  the  name  of  Vit-Negre 
sells  his  wife  to  a  monk  for  60,000  francs.  The  latter  rapes  her  in 
such  a  brutal  and  bestial  fashion  that  she  dies  of  the  consequences. 
Whereupon  the  latter  draws  and  quarters  his  victim  and  finally 
consumes  the  pieces.  Such  horrible  productions  flowed  from  human 
minds!  What  a  price  to  pay  for  the  gift  of  language  and  thought! 


^^-» 


CHAPTEM  Xni 

PORNOGRAPHIA  RAMPANT 


To  WHAT  purpose  these  writings  served  is  obvious  at  first  sight. 
It  is  true  that  in  a  certain  number  the  erotic  elements  were 
subordinate  to  satire,  panurgics  or  hbel — be  it  political,  anti-clerical 
or  personal.  Some  few  others  had  undeniably  artistic  aims  and 
actually  achieved  their  ends.  But  by  far  the  greatest  portion  of 
these  works  were  written  only  to  inflame  erotic  desires  and  amatory 
hunger  or  to  enrich  sex  lust.  And  since  the  French  of  the  rococo 
period  were  artists  in  pleasure,  its  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  the  pen 
knew  how  to  sound  the  proper  chords  perfectly  calculated  to  a- 
chieve  the  desired  effects.  They  are  entirely  free  from  Germanic 
heaviness.  There  is  a  good  deal  of  chat  and  play  and  laughter,  and 
love;  but  the  latter  is  graceful  and  seductive,  yet  entirely  without 
passion  and  having  no  connection  with  the  inner  spirit  and  the 
deeper  emotion.  One  must  be  truthful  to  give  the  effect  of  truth, 
but  this  truth  is  born  of  the  time.  These  erotica  which  permitted 
their  purpose,  viz.,  to  seduce,  to  be  clearly  discerned,  fluttered  out 
into  the  world  in  little  insignificant  volumes,  and  were  bought, 
read  and  discussed  avidly. 

By  the  side  of  these  stood  the  hypocrites  who  assumed  a  mask  in 
order  to  remain  unknown  and  the  better  to  engage  in  their  nefarious 
business.  Is  vice  abominable?  Certainly!  Must  one  then  be  fright- 
ened away  from  it?  Undoubtedly!  But  how  can  this  occur  without 
a  thoroughly  faithful  reproduction  of  it?  The  more  one  unveils  it, 

198 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUKY 
the  greater  will  be  the  revulsion  from  vice.  Virtue  has  real  value 
only  when  it  is  based  upon  experience.  Aside  from  this,  all  laws  set 
penalties  for  crime.  But  how  can  one  avoid  that  which  one  does  not 
know  thoroughly?  Thus  we  have  a  second  cogent  reason  for  rep- 
resenting it  in  the  most  terrifying  aspect  and  maximum  clarity. 
But  it  is  just  the  sins  of  a  sex  nature  which  are  of  greatly  diverse 
character;  hence  they  require  diverse  treatment.  It  is  admitted, 
oddly  enough,  that  the  unchaste  are  stimulated  by  such  reading  to 
greater  lust;  but  for  them  nothing  is  holy.  The  good,  on  the  other 
hand,  are  strengthened  in  their  virtue.  Quod  erat  demonstrandum. 

It  is  striking  how  many  works  are  directed  against  the  clergy, 
monks  and  nuns.  The  reason  is  that  the  immoral  conduct  of  the 
clergy,  induced  by  their  enforced  "celibacy",  had  assumed  the 
proportions  of  a  national  plague,  so  that  nunneries  were  virtually 
disguised  brothels.  In  these  practises  the  nuns  followed  the  com- 
forting dictum  that  much  would  be  forgiven  to  whoever  had  loved 
much,  and  successfully  forgot  their  vows.  But  the  erotic  writer 
doubted  this  intrepretation  of  their  conduct,  and  has  a  different 
view  of  these  matters  altogether.  To  start  with  poverty,  says  he, 
can  a  girl  documentate  her  lack  of  all  needs  better  than  when  she 
removes  everything  till  her  skin?  Can  she  show  a  more  ravishing 
chastity  in  any  words  or  deeds  comparable  to  that  of  her  gleaming 
natural  nakedness?  Can  a  nun  show  greater  token  of  her  obedience 
than  when  at  the  command  of  her  priestly  adviser  she  hikes  her 
dress  up  to  her  navel,  offers  up  her  virginity  or  submits  to  flagella- 
tion? This  interpretation  has  at  least  the  virtue  of  originality. 

But  one  gets  a  very  unpleasant  impression  when  the  preacher  of 
morals,  still  wearing  the  mantle  of  morality,  begins  to  revel  in  foul 
obscenities.  Here  an  ethically  degenerate  Capuchin  is  lashing  the 
vice  of  his  time  but  he  uses  such  expressions  and  images  to  leave  no 
doubt  that  he  is  not  at  all  in  earnest  about  his  preaching. 

199 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
Then  too  there  was  no  dearth  of  manuals  for  worldings  which 
contain  much  that  is  of  interest  to  cultural  history.  They  afford  us 
an  insight  into  the  life  of  Parisian  prostitutes,  the  affairs  of  the 
profligates  of  both  sexes,  and  the  chronicles  of  scandal.  And  be- 
cause debauchery  is  the  rule,  and  virginity  is  to  be  found  only  in 
the  cradle,  another  philanthropic  author  renders  counsel  how  lovers 
can  obtain  even  this  rare  dehght,  and  how  they  are  to  guard  them- 
selves against  second-hand  goods  being  fubbed  off  on  them  as 
virgins.  But  it  isn't  only  the  males  that  are  looked  after  and  provided 
with  advice.  The  females  are  taught  ways  and  means,  whose  appli- 
cation is  gone  over  in  practice,  how  to  palm  off  upon  their  unsus- 
pecting bridegrooms,  their  abused  and  marred  virginal  honor  as 
intact. 

It  is  obvious  that  the  entire  imaginations  of  these  readers  were 
utterly  obsessed  with  eroticism.  But  the  life  of  the  normal  person 
contains  many  other  aims  than  sexual  pleasure.  Hence  only  those 
people  were  chosen  as  chief  bearers  of  the  erotic  action  who  de- 
voted their  whole  life  to  "love",  that  is,  brothel  mistresses  and 
celebrated  whores.  And  it  is  remarkable  how  much  these  dames 
from  the  half-  or  quarter-world  can  accumulate  in  the  way  of  ex- 
perience as  related  in  many  novels  or  memoirs  written  by  them. 
Their  whole  deportment  is  based  upon  the  experience  accumulated 
on  the  capture  of  men,  on  a  knowledge  of  the  male  psyche.  And 
in  the  "pleasure"  itself  they  must  accommodate  themselves  to  the 
wish  of  any  of  their  fares,  and  submit  to  any  of  his  lusts,  however 
perverse  or  disgusting.  Their  business  calls  for  it. 

Now  if  the  prostitute  lives  through  so  much,  especially  in  her 
love  life,  how  much  more  is  this  true  of  the  panderess.  For  no 
matter  how  energetic  the  strumpet  is  in  her  trade,  she  can  after  all 
know  the  taste  of  men  only,  and  even  then,  of  but  a  small  group, 
for  generally  her  clientel  will  be  recruited  from  but  one  class 

200 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
of  society.  Hence  her  experience  is  always  one-sided.  But  the 
panderess  is  differently  situated  since  her  vocation  brings  her  into 
connection  with  all  classes  of  the  populace.  Her  clientel  comprises 
women  as  well  as  men,  and  she  knows  how  to  appease  the  desire 
for  sex  partners  of  the  opposite  or  the  same  sex.  She  purveys  stout 
and  vigorous  navvies  and  farmhands  of  overflowing  strength  with 
the  same  ease  that  she  supplies  full-bloomed  beauties  and  young 
girls  barely  in  their  teens.  She  procures  for  the  lascivious  rake  the 
prostitute  versed  in  all  the  arts  of  whoredom,  and  knows  how  to 
hunt  up  the  virginity  of  a  scarcely  developed  adolescent.  She  aids 
the  powerfully  natural  instincts  of  the  farmhand  to  find  satisfaction 
and  accommodates  herself  to  the  desires  of  a  taste  refined  by  "cul- 
ture". She  comes  into  contact  with  the  dregs  of  the  people  and  at 
the  same  time  counts  among  her  customers  the  notables  of  the  king- 
dom and  the  ladies  in  waiting  to  the  queen.  In  short,  she  can  cer- 
tainly claim  for  herself  that  nothing  human  is  alien  to  her.  Hence, 
such  a  worldly  person  who  seems  to  know  everybody  and  every- 
thing can  certainly  reveal  a  great  deal  when  she  has  begun  to  dis- 
play the  riches  of  her  experience.  That  is  why  we  find  so  many 
of  these  Memoirs,  Confessions,  Diaries,  etc.  of  panderesses,  in  the 
erotic  literature  of  this  time.  The  calling  of  such  a  brokeress  was 
not  so  despised  and  marked  with  the  badge  of  shame  as  it  is  today. 
After  all.  Pompadour  belonged  to  this  profession,  and  Madame  La 
Comtesse  certainly  had  no  negligible  influence.  Their  activities  were 
conducted  publicly  and  were  fairly  well-known.  One  could  really 
expect  something  from  such  confessions,  and  one  was  usually  not 
disappointed.  It  scarcely  needs  to  be  mentioned  that  many  of  these 
memoirs  were  invented  and  that  they  were  attributed  to  notorious 
loose  women,  opera  girls  and  brothel  mistresses,  in  order  to  make 
possible  greater  sales.  These  works  had  a  perfectly  tremendous 
success;  and  many  a  poor  wretch  who  still  had  some  shame  left 

201 


THE  EEOTIC  MISTOHY  OF  FRANCE 
excused  his  conduct  by  pointing  to  the  pubHc's  taste  which  he  was 
compelled  to  gratify  or  else  starve. 

In  another  set  of  works,  the  results  of  a  careless  pleasure  were 
set  forth  in  the  form  of  a  confession.  To  the  gallant  diseases,  such 
works  as  Foutromanie  and  Cacamonade  erected  a  very  questionable 
monument.  Thus  in  The  Mortificatio?is  of  Pleasure,  the  author  un- 
folds his  tale  of  woe.  He  had  fallen  in  love  with  a  married  woman, 
given  her  presents  and  finally  had  won  her  favor  but  got  a  present 
from  her  that  he  hadn't  anticipated.  He  has  to  undergo  a  long 
treatment,  and  while  waiting  for  the  cure,  he  makes  the  acquaint- 
ance of  Auguste,  an  opera  girl.  She  tells  him  her  life  story,  and  he 
lets  himself  be  carried  away;  whereupon  luck  being  against  him, 
he  becomes  infected  a  second  time.  They  both  look  forward  to  their 
cure;  but  he  forever  forswears  love  and  w^men,  whom  he  now 
despises. 

After  all,  that  is  the  natural  result  of  every  pleasure  driven  to  the 
extent  and  enjoyed  to  the  utmost,  the  insidious  payment  that  lurks 
behind  every  intoxication.  Before  fulfillment,  no  price  is  too  high 
to  pay  for  the  object  of  pleasure  whose  possession  is  considered  of 
indispensable  value.  Afterwards,  he  (or  she)  who  has  been  diseased 
by  passion  cannot  find  invective  strong  enough.  Such  works  as 
Sade's  can  only  arouse  regret,  surfeit  and  disgust. 

As  far  as  the  technique  of  the  average  erotic  work  is  concerned 
there  is  a  regularly  recurrent  scheme.  Very  typical  is  the  increasing 
tempo  with  which  these  erotic  scenes  are  portrayed.  Starting  from 
the  gentle  awakening  of  sensuality  we  are  introduced  to  all  the 
stages  that  a  libidinous  fantasy  can  imagine.  A  motif  that  is  very 
popular  is  that  of  the  keyhole.  The  young  girl  in  her  puberty  once 
observes  through  the  keyhole  the  antics  of  her  parents  or  a  pair  of 
lovers  as  they  perform  the  act,  and  from  that  time  on  her  sexual 
imaginings,  subconscious  until  now,  take  on  tangible  form.  A  very 

202 


BOOK  III:  TME  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
common  device  is  the  gradual  initiation  of  the  inexperienced  into 
the  arcana  of  sex,  whereby  the  role  of  teacher  or  enlightener  is 
usually  played  by  an  older  and  experienced  girl  friend.  For  this 
purpose  the  naive  one  must  be  made  as  naive  as  possible  in  order 
that  the  friend  versed  in  all  the  procedures  of  "love"  may  be  able 
to  display  her  wares  to  best  advantage.  Usually  she  is  married  and 
reports  to  her  astounded  listener  all  the  lurid  and  gory  details  of 
her  defloration  with  the  preliminary  scenes  and  the  ensuing  orgies 
of  delight.  The  naive  one  must  ask  questions  if  the  narrative  is  not 
to  become  dull.  Or  a  young  man  talks  of  his  successes  in  the  realm 
of  Venus,  tarrying  at  first  in  the  realm  of  probability,  and  the  first 
sortie  into  sex  is  graphically  drawn.  But  after  this  peak  has  been 
passed,  the  narrator  usually  loses  power  and  cannot  invent  anything 
new.  His  whole  art  now  consists  of  multiplying  erotic  scenes,  pro- 
gressively more  improbable  and  revolting.  All  too  rarely  do  we 
find  cases  where  the  author  limits  himself  to  single  erotic  incidents 
which  are  drawn  with  refinement  of  invention  and  wit.  Of  course, 
such  excellence  is  the  privilege  of  only  extraordinary  writers,  who 
were  not  too  common  in  eighteenth-century  France. 

We  have  already  seen  that  the  rococo  can  be  regarded  as  the 
classic  age  of  erotic  literature.  This  tremendous  productivity  which 
could  appease  every  appetite  must  naturally  have  coexisted  with 
a  correspondingly  great  demand.  If  this  had  already  reached  an 
exorbitant  figure,  according  to  our  present  conceptions,  it  grew 
to  enormous  dimensions  the  nearer  the  Revolution  came,  and  even 
after  this  world-shaking  event.  Thus,  in  1796  Mercier  reports  that 
the  only  books  displayed  were  the  obscene  ones,  those  whose  titles 
and  engravings  outraged  modesty  and  good  taste  alike.  These  por- 
neia  were  sold  everywhere,  at  restaurants,  near  bridges,  at  the  gates 
of  the  theatres  and  on  the  boulevards.  They  were  sold  cheaply 
enough  from  10  sous  a  piece  and  up.  They  outdid  each  other  in 

203 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FEANCE 
lust,  and  undermined  public  morals  without  a  vestige  of  scruple. 
The  peddlers  of  these  brochures  were  to  a  certain  degree  privileged 
dispensers  of  obscenities,  for  every  title  that  wasn't  filthy  was  very 
obtrusively  kept  out  of  their  display.  From  these  defiled  sources, 
youth  drank  up  the  essential  elements  of  all  vice,  without  hindrance 
or  difficulty.  What  one  would  read  on  the  title-pages  of  these 
pamphlets  was  alas!  too  true:  "this  pamphlet  is  always  to  be  found 
in  the  pockets  of  even  those  who  condemn  it."  The  horrible  Justine 
of  the  Marquis  de  Sade  with  its  equally  impossible  and  vicious  en- 
gravings lay  open  in  all  shop  windows.  For  our  present-day,  none 
too  prudish  notions  such  protected  vice  is  criminal.  Alercier  de 
Compiegne  (1763-1800)  private  secretary,  marine  official  and 
finally  book-seller,  published  a  host  of  pornographic  and  scato- 
logical works,  and  even  wrote  some  of  them  himself.  Even  in  the 
very  Bastille  there  was  a  secret  press  which  printed  the  most  ob- 
scene books,  with  which  the  police  did  a  thriving  business. 

The  best  erotic  writers  of  this  period  found  an  inteUigent  and 
sympathetic  pubHsher  in  Cazin,  who  combined  the  business  of 
printing  with  publishing.  Born  at  Rheims  in  1724,  he  took  up  the 
lucrative  trade  of  bookselling  and  the  still  more  lucrative  one  of 
publishing  erotic  works.  His  relations  with  Mercier  de  St,  Leger 
and  Merard  de  Saint-Just  made  matters  easier  for  him  and  brought 
him  to  the  idea  of  issuing  a  handsome  collection  of  erotica,  in  line 
with  his  own  taste.  These  works  have  been  rewarded  by  the  respect 
of  book-collectors  so  that  the  merit  of  a  Cazin  edition  is  recognized 
even  today.  Until  1792  his  business  flourished  but  then  came  the 
revolution  which  brought  him  ruin  and  death.  He  was  killed  by  a 
cannon  ball  as  he  left  a  cafe. 

Many  examples  have  come  down  to  us  of  striking  and  shocking 
productions  of  the  erotic  imagination.  Carriage  doors  were  deco- 
rated with  pornographic  drawings,  and  w^omen  surpassed  men  in 

204 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
this  ribaldry.  The  latter,  not  to  be  outdone,  sought  to  score  in  an- 
other way  by  decorating  their  clothes  with  obscene  pictures, 
namely  their  vestes  de  petits-soupers.  According  to  the  prevalent 
mode,  the  jackets  were  worn  buttoned  up  and  the  upper  portion 
of  the  vests  could  not  be  seen.  The  rich  debauchees  used  to  have 
their  vests  embroidered  with  obscene  figures  and  at  certain  mo- 
ments they  would  unbutton  their  jackets  and  display  their  "art". 

It  goes  without  saying  that  by  the  side  of  the  cheap  stuff  designed 
by  the  masses,  there  were  bibliophilic  tidbits,  illustrated  by  con- 
temporary artists,  for  the  greater  delectation  of  the  elegant  and 
rich.  Pompadour  possessed  a  library  of  such  porneia,  and  in  letters 
to  her  friends  admits  that  she  frequently  experienced  with  pleasure 
the  stimulating  effect  of  such  writings. 

When  Sade  speaks  of  obscene  books  and  libraries,  this  rests  on 
the  foundation  of  facts.  There  is  the  characteristic  scene  in  Juliette 
where  she  and  Clairmil  are  browsing  about  in  the  home  of  the 
Carmelite  Claude  and  come  upon  his  excellent  pornographic  library. 
Juliette  remarks:  "You  can  have  no  idea  what  obscene  books  and 
pictures  we  found  there."  Among  the  books  were  the  Porter  of 
Chartreux,  more  of  a  prankish  than  a  passionate  book;  the  conversa- 
tions of  Luisa  Sigea,  well  planned  but  poorly  carried  out;  Mirabeau's 
Laura,  a  poor  scrawl  with  little  passion  and  much  murder;  and 
Therese  philosophe,  about  which  Juliette  is  enthusiastic  because 
here  passion  is  combined  in  full  harmony  with  atheism.  A  devastat- 
ing glance  is  cast  at  the  horrid  little  brochures  which  are  found  in 
every  cafe  and  brothel.  In  another  place,  too,  at  Delibene's,  Juliette 
finds  a  large  collection  of  erotic  works,  some  of  which  she  is  to  read 
during  mass,  in  order  to  alleviate  the  monotony  of  having  to  sit 
through  such  a  horrible  ceremony. 

Two  more  important  witnesses  to  the  wide  distribution  of  these 
works  are  Casanova  and  Goethe,  though  numerous  others  report  the 

203 


THE  EEOTIC  HIS  TOM  Y  OF  FEANCE 
fact.  In  his  memoirs,  the  former  relates  the  following:  "When  the 
hour  came  I  went  to  the  Temple  of  Love.  While  I  was  waiting  for 
my  goddess  I  amused  myself  by  examining  the  books  of  the  small 
library  which  the  boudoir  contained.  There  weren't  many  books, 
but  well  chosen  and  worthy  of  their  place.  Here  were  all  the  books 
against  religion,  and  all  that  passionate  pens  had  written  about  the 
joys  of  love,  seductive  books  whose  style  sets  the  reader  on  fire  and 
compels  him  to  seek  the  living  reality  of  that  whose  incendiary  de- 
piction he  has  just  read.  Many  richly  bound  folio  volumes  contained 
lascivious  copper  plate  engravings  whose  great  merit  consisted  much 
more  in  the  purity  of  their  drawing  than  in  the  lewdness  of  their 
representations.  The  English  engravings  to  the  Porter,  the  pictures 
to  Aloysia,  and  others,  all  were  of  rare  beauty.  Innumerable  master- 
pieces covered  the  walls  of  the  room,  all  masterworks  of  the  same 
sort  a  >  the  copper  plates.  I  spent  an  hour  in  examining  these  things, 
which  aroused  such  an  excitement  in  me  that  I  could  scarcely  await 
the  arrival  of  my  mistress  who  presently  entered  bedizened  in  men's 
clothes."  From  the  account  of  our  second  chronicler  Goethe,  we 
learn  that  raw  warriors  carried  such  stimulants  about  with  them.  In 
Wahrheit  iind  Dichtung,  he  reports  how  he  found  erotic  paintings 
in  the  room  of  the  lieutenant  Thorane.  Seeing  a  black  box  behind 
the  oven  he  drew  it  forth  little  suspecting  what  it  might  contain. 
To  his  great  surprise  he  found  a  collection  of  paintings  which  very 
rarely  come  to  one's  eye,  and  which  sent  the  blood  tingling  through 
his  body  with  a  great  excitement  and  heat. 

It  is  hardly  worthy  of  notice  that  the  brothels  were  richly  fur- 
nished with  such  articles  for  the  stimulation  of  the  impotent.  So, 
we  are  told  the  famous  house  of  A4me.  Gourdan  had  a  small  chamber 
called  the  Infirmerie  in  which  the  light  fell  from  above.  On  the 
walls  hung  passionate  paintings  and  engravings,  in  the  corners  stood 
obscene  plastic  figures  and  groups,  and  on  the  tables  reposed  ob- 

20S 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY- 
scene  books.  In  the  autobiography  of  Clairon  (about  1750),  whom 
the  brothers  Goncourt  have  called  the  most  delicate  artiste  in  love 
that  the  eighteenth  century  possessed,  we  are  informed  that  to  make 
herself  more  desirable  she  educated  her  spirit  through  educative 
and  piquant  reading.  "Brantome  and  Aloysia  delighted  me  with  a 
thousand  beauties.  The  attractive  pictures  found  therein  were  a 
feast  to  the  eye  and  mind  and  I  could  hardly  await  with  im- 
patience when  I  could  transmute  these  pictures  into  reality".  The 
library  of  the  Marechale  de  Luxembourg  consisted  of  the  Thirty - 
six  Postures  of  Aretino,  Philosophical  Theresa,  and  Luisa  Sigea. 
Short  but  significant  is  her  comment  apropos  of  a  livre  polisson  of 
Count  Besenval:  "It  can  be  read  with  one  hand  only". 

Interestingly  enough,  it  was  women  who  supplied  the  greatest 
contingent  of  readers.  In  fact,  their  hypocrisy  went  so  far  that  they 
bound  obscene  pictures  and  brochures  into  their  prayer  books  so 
that  by  this  means  they  could  drive  away  boredom  during  mass 
and  yet  retain  the  reputation  of  piety.  Here  is  what  the  Duke  de 
Choiseul  says  in  his  memoirs:  "The  nobles  of  Hautefontaine  and 
their  guests  would  not  have  missed  a  Sunday  mass  for  the  w^orld. 
Everyone  went  to  church  very  proudly,  but  it  was  not  considered 
remarkable  to  see  a  smile  playing  around  the  lips  of  a  worshipper, 
here  and  there.  Everyone  had  a  book  in  his  or  her  hand  out  of  which 
they  read  greedily.  According  to  the  covers  it  is  a  prayerbook,  but 
its  contents  are  really  a  collection  of  indecent,  scandalous  tales.  This 
is  known  to  all,  and  all  week  these  books  remain  in  the  chapel  for 
the  delectation  of  the  servitors  and  watchmen." 

In  the  Voyage  through  the  Boudoir  of  Pauline  (1800)  in  which 
La  Libordiere  depicts  how  the  girls  of  his  time  lived,  he  praises 
his  mistresses  for  lacking  those  obscene  engravings  which  were 
being  exhibited  as  openly  as  pious  paintings  had  been  in  days  gone 
by.  His  own  chosen  one,  he  relates  with  pride,  had  in  her  chamber 

207 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FRANCE 
no  passionate  pictures,  no  voluptuous  paintings  which  are  calcu- 
lated to  seduce.  But  so  saying  he  continues  the  report  with  the 
statement  that  he  had  advised  her  to  visit  certain  literary  rooms 
where  she  would  find  the  choicest  collection  of  the  best  novels 
produced  in  France  during  the  previous  four  years.  No  one  hesitated 
to  present  such  panurgics  to  women;  indeed  it  was  quite  the  thing. 
The  books  were  produced  in  pocket  editions,  and  every  dress  was 
made  with  a  special  pocket  for  this  purpose. 

Sade  praised  his  own  works  as  models  of  obscene  reading  matter 
and  reports  that  in  the  execution  chamber  of  the  Archbishop  of 
Grenoble  an  Abbe  read  the  Philosophy  in  the  Boudoir.  In  book- 
shops these  books  were  displayed  opened  up  so  that  their  contents 
might  be  sampled  by  all;  and  they  were  everywhere  to  be  had. 
They  were  listed  in  all  catalogues  and  sold  without  any  hindrance 
A  great  capitalist  supported  the  distribution  both  domestic  and 
foreign  with  ample  means,  and  reaped  a  pretty  return  from  his  in- 
vestment. Sade  even  dared  to  send  a  de  luxe  edition  of  his  Justine 
to  the  members  of  the  Directory,  and  even  when  Napoleon  became 
consul  the  distribution  of  these  pornographies  was  not  interfered 
with.  But  all  this  was  suddenly  changed  in  1801.  In  the  previous 
year  Sade  had  been  thoughtless  enough  to  launch  his  Zoloe  vidth  its 
denigration  of  Napoleon  and  its  anti-religious  fulminations.  These 
factors,  and  not  its  overweening  immorality,  were  responsible  for 
the  ensuing  persecution  of  Sade's  work  which  soon  extended  to 
most  other  erotic  works.  At  the  command  of  Napoleon  all  com- 
positions of  this  category  in  the  possession  of  his  soldiers  or  their 
prostitutes  were  confiscated  and  destroyed.  Only  two  copies  of 
every  work  were  kept  and  secreted  in  the  National  Library  at 
Paris,  as  reported  by  Penchet,  erstwhile  archivist  of  police  under 
Napoleon.  Parent-Duchatelet,  author  of  the  Imjnorality  of  Women 
in  Paris  got  a  glimpse  of  this  collection  and  actually  saw  them  on  the 

208 


BOOK  III:  THE  EIGHTEENTH  CENTUEY 
ground  floor.  This  collection  is  still  extant  today  and  it  has  been 
greatly  augmented  by  many  new  acquisitions.  It  is  very  strongly 
guarded  and  one  can  gain  access  to  it  only  by  permission  of  the 
local  police. 

A  collection  of  such  works,  almost  comparable  to  the  one  just 
mentioned,  is  that  contained  in  the  Palais  Bourbon  at  Paris.  This 
library  also  dates  from  the  time  of  the  revolution  and  was  the 
property  of  the  famed  law  teacher  and  politician,  Gaston  Camus. 
In  1793  he  was  sent  by  the  convent  to  disarm  Dumouriez  but  was 
turned  over  by  the  latter  to  the  Austrians  who  kept  him  prisoner 
for  two  years,  until  he  was  exchanged  for  the  daughter  of  Louis  xvi. 
When  he  returned  to  Paris,  he  succumbed  to  the  book-collecting 
fever.  At  that  time  the  gallant  libraries  of  emigrated  nobles  were 
thrown  upon  the  market  for  sale,  in  mass  quantities,  and  Camus 
bought  up  everything  pertaining  to  Jesuits,  theology,  and  above  all 
else,  pornography.  Later  he  presented  his  collection  to  the  Palais 
Bourbon,  where  the  Council  of  Five  Hundred  met,  and  where  the 
Chamber  of  Deputies  now  has  its  seat.  Today  this  library  is  patron- 
ized more  than  any  other.  \ 


^ 


BOOK  IV 
THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 


####'4*4*#"^4*##4*4*4*#4*#4*4*4'#4*#4*#4*"'l''^4' 


CHAPTER  XIV 

THE  NAPOLEONIC  REGIME 


THE  French  Revolution  with  its  reign  of  terror  was  able  to  clean 
up  the  French  love  of  life  for  a  little  while  especially  since 
that  portion  of  society  which  before  the  revolution  had  been  most 
set  on  such  pleasures,  viz.,  the  nobility,  was  now  out  of  France; 
but  even  so,  this  restriction  could  last  only  awhile.  The  type  of 
love  which  had  reigned  in  the  pre-revolutionary  salon  did  not  soon 
return,  for  at  present  the  field  was  held  by  the  plebeian  coarse 
manners  of  the  parvenu  speculators  and  usurers  who  had  battened 
on  the  misery  of  the  people.  What  there  remained  o^  the  old 
society  did  not  dare  to  resume  its  old  life  out  of  fear  of  the  new 
wielders  of  power,  but  by  that  much  more  did  the  mob  and  the 
bourgeoisie  throw  itself  into  the  enjoyment  of  its  new  freedom. 
Never  was  there  so  much  immorality  as  in  the  years  following 
the  revolution.  Presently  there  came  into  being  the  society  balls 
to  which  every  man  had  access,  for  there  were  no  differences  of 
rank  and  position.  To  these  came  the  grand  ladies  of  the  former 
society,  rich  profiteers,  officers  of  the  revolution,  and  many,  many 
prostitutes;  and  each  vied  with  the  other  in  constrained  merriment, 
in  order  to  forget  the  worries  of  the  time. 

As  a  consequence  of  the  colossal  changes,  the  people  lost  all 
understanding  of  spiritual  interests  and  set  up  the  belly  for  its  god. 
The  place  of  spirituality  now  came  to  be  occupied  by  the  adoration 
of  crude  power.  Post-revolutionary  France  made  a  cult  of  ath- 

213 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FKANCE 
leticism:  boxing,  wrestling,  etc.  The  men  of  brawn  who  participated 
in  these  tournaments  and  matches  feasted  like  Homer's  heroes.  To 
be  a  big  eater  was  a  grand  thing  and  these  fellows  enacted  the  most 
incredible  eating  bouts.  Thus  there  was  one  titan  who  once  put 
away  loo  dozen  oysters  for  breakfast.  It  is  understood  that  such 
gluttony  was  accompanied  by  equally  tremendous  guzzling.  The 
other  amusements  of  the  time  were  on  the  same  level.  The  crudest 
jokes  were  in  order  and  there  was  no  prank  too  coarse.  At  this 
time  clowns  and  mysticateurs  were  very  popular  at  parties.  And 
after  these  had  set  the  tone  and  enough  wine  had  been  consumed, 
there  came  the  recitation  of  bawdy  stories  and  the  most  revolting 
ditties. 

What  could  one  expect  of  this  crowd  which  had  grown  rich 
overnight?  Everything  could  be  bought  for  money  and  even  the 
members  of  the  Directory  were  accessible  to  bribery.  From  their 
residence,  the  Palais  Luxembourg,  the  pestilential  vapors  of  their 
moral  corruption  rose  up  and  poisoned  their  surroundings.  Barras, 
the  lazy  passionate  glutton,  needed  a  great  deal  of  money  for  his 
feasts  and  orgies.  Hence  he  had  to  let  himself  be  bought,  as  did 
the  other  directors.  Women  threw  themselves  upon  Barras,  grease- 
ball  that  he  was,  and  he  didn't  pass  up  any  one  of  them,  not  Joseph- 
ine Beauhamais,  who  was  later  to  become  empress,  nor  Madame 
Tallien  who  was  open  to  anyone  who  could  pay  for  her,  nor  the 
mulatto  Hamelin,  who  would  publicly  expose  her  nakedness 
through  its  "moral"  covering  of  muslin,  nor  Madame  Recamier  who 
knew  modesty  only  above  the  waist,  nor  dozens  of  other  citizen- 
esses  who  gave  themselves  to  this  voluptuary  without  a  struggle. 
If  they  could  gain  something  by  their  surrender  to  this  omnivorous 
roue  they  regarded  their  physical  surrender  as  worthwhile.  Napo- 
leon realized  that  there  must  be  certain  ordered  conditions  of  life 
if  his  rule  were  to  be  maintained.  Hence  he  made  the  strongest 

214 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
efforts  to  check  this  immorality  but  without  much  success.  He  did 
however  succeed  in  increasing  public  safety  and  reducing  brigand- 
age. The  salons  reappeared  and  the  rawness  of  the  immorality  of 
the  years  immediately  preceding  was  mitigated.  At  these  parties 
the  emigres  would  be  in  attendance  and  would  reintroduce  the 
vices  of  pre-revolutionary  times.  Yet  Napoleon  countenanced 
these  parties  and  even  encouraged  and  subsidized  some  of  them 
for  through  them  his  spies  were  able  to  keep  tabs  on  certain  people. 
The  chief  of  the  secret  service  Fouche  went  to  great  expense  to 
have  numerous  purveyors  of  information.  Many  unsuspected  ladies 
of  society  stood  in  his  pay  and  were  expected  to  overhear  the 
conversation  of  their  guests  and  to  ascertain  their  various  reactions. 
Many  a  soiree  ended  with  an  arrest — a  tribute  to  the  faithful  work 
of  these  spies.  When  Napoleon  was  in  the  field  one  of  his  faithful 
ones,  Madame  de  Genlis,  had  the  obligation  of  keeping  him  in- 
formed about  opinions  current  in  Paris,  at  an  annual  salary  of  6,000 
francs  and  free  residence  in  the  arsenal.  Even  the  domestic  servants 
of  the  Corsican  were  not  seldom  paid  to  keep  him  informed  about 
what  was  going  on  at  home. 

All  efforts  were  directed  at  keeping  the  revolutionary  spirits  in 
check  in  order  to  safeguard  the  hardly  won  imperial  power.  The 
best  and  easiest  way  to  achieve  this  goal  was  to  permit  all  sexual 
impulses  to  be  satisfied.  In  this  way  those  restive  spirits  who  were 
dissatisfied  with  his  regime  were  silenced.  Indeed,  he  himself  set  a 
good  example  in  this  direction.  He  who  in  all  his  actions  showed  the 
despot  did  not  belie  this  character  in  sexual  matters.  When  he  wanted 
a  woman  he  made  no  pretense  about  charming  deportment  or  win- 
ning conduct.  He  wasn't  at  all  concerned  about  captivating  the 
lady  with  the  charms  of  his  personahty.  An  order  to  his  valet  or 
his  privileged  pander  was  held  to  be  sufficient  to  supply  the  desired 
object.  And  if  his  fame  was  not  sufficient  to  attract  the  lady,  she 

215 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 
was  brought  by  force.  His  impulses  are  best  illuminated  by  the 
concealed  fact  that  he  would  sometimes  in  the  midst  of  the  most 
bloody  battle  dash  into  his  tent  and  order  a  woman  toute  de  suite. 
His  relatives  were  lashed  by  the  same  fierce  impulses.  One  need 
only  think  of  Jerome  who  didn't  permit  anything  to  stand  in  the 
way  of  his  epicurean  life;  or  of  Lucien  who,  when  his  mistress  no 
longer  satisfied  him,  shared  her  with  his  friend.  He  finally  got  so 
enmeshed  in  the  snares  of  the  notorious  whoremonger  Mme.  Jou- 
berthon,  that  he  made  her  his  lawful  spouse.  As  compared  to 
Jerome,  Lucien  was  an  ideal  personality,  for  this  caricature  of  a 
human  being  regarded  the  court  of  Cassel  as  a  harem,  and  many 
women  dazzled  by  his  royal  status  fell  victim  to  him.  His  physicians 
were  constantly  engaged  in  restoring  his  expended  vitality  of  which 
in  truth  he  had  none  too  much,  and  they  believed  that  wine  baths 
would  be  the  best  remedy  for  his  malady.  The  wine  thus  used 
would,  after  the  bath,  be  bottled  up  by  the  courtiers  and  secretly 
sold  to  the  innkeepers  of  Cassel.  One  remembers  his  lovely  and 
dissolute  sister  Pauline,  of  whom  one  of  her  erstwhile  lovers,  Fred- 
erick, wrote  in  his  memoirs;  Forty  Years  out  of  the  Life  of  a  Dead 
07ie,  that  at  twelve  she  had  already  had  lovers;  and  the  malicious 
world  had  it,  though  without  justice,  that  Napoleon  himself  had 
been  one  of  them.  Very  well  known  are  the  adventures  which 
under  the  name  of  Amelie  she  enjoyed  with  a  young  man  with 
whom  she  had  many  rendezvous  at  i88.  Rue  du  Bac.  One  day 
he  went  to  the  theatre  and  was  struck  dumb  with  amazement  to 
see  his  Amelie  bedecked  with  brilliants  in  the  imperial  box  and 
learned  that  she  was  Princess  Borghese,  Napoleon's  sister.  The  next 
morning  he  was  ordered  to  appear  at  the  ministry  of  the  Interior 
and  a  very  lucrative  post  was  assigned  him  some  fifty  leagues  away 
from  Paris;  but  he  had  to  leave  for  his  new  situation  within  48 
hours.  Everyone  knows  her  amourettes  with  the  actor  Lafont 

21^ 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUMY 
Forbin,  the  Prince  Cononville,  etc.,  whose  horse  (and  rider)  Na- 
poleon during  an  inspection  found  too  wild  and  hence  sent  hundreds 
of  miles  away  from  Paris.  For  the  most  part  however  the  great 
number  of  Pauline's  adventures  as  well  as  those  of  her  sisters  re- 
mained unknown  to  their  royal  brother  for  no  one  was  eager  to 
bring  them  to  his  notice.  Even  the  chief  of  spies  Fouche  was  unwill- 
ing to  bring  his  master  into  bad  humor. 

Nor  were  the  other  members  of  the  royal  family  any  better. 
Not  the  step-daughter  Hortense,  the  former  mistress  of  her  royal 
step-father  who,  when  she  was  pregnant,  attached  her  to  his 
brother  Ludwig;  nor  Joseph  who  was  intimate  with  the  most  in- 
famous courtesans,  such  as  Mme.  Regnault,  a  veritable  nympho- 
maniac, probably  one  of  the  most  immoral  women  of  her  time, 
whose  husband  calmly  regarded  his  notorious  wife's  sexcapades 
and  capitalized  on  them.  Concerning  the  latter  there  are  many  pi- 
quant anecdotes.  These  conditions  were  very  widespread.  Even 
Talleyrand,  Napoleon's  most  influential  minister,  who  lived  with 
a  demi-mondaine  of  very  low  grade,  (and  had  to  marry  her  later 
at  the  direction  of  his  master)  once  expressed  his  regret  at  the 
death  of  one  of  his  trollop's  intimates:  "He  was  an  honorable  man 
and  gave  her  good  counsel  which  she  certainly  needed.  Who  knows 
into  what  hands  she  will  fall  next?" 

The  memory  of  the  gallant  pre-revolutionary  times  in  which 
the  designation  of  "whore"  was  regarded  as  a  title  of  honor  was 
still  too  green  for  giving  too  much  honor  to  chastity;  but  the  former 
remembrance  was  distant  enough  to  give  some  rein  to  the  puritanism 
demanded  by  the  heroes  of  the  revolution.  Gluttony  and  epicurean- 
ism came  to  the  fore  again.  The  famous  dinners  of  the  Minister 
Cambaceres  could  have  taught  Lucullus  plenty.  His  table  was  dec- 
orated by  the  rarest  delicacies  and  this  at  a  time  when  the  endless 
wars  of  Napoleon  had  brought  extreme  poverty  to  the  land. 

217 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
In  a  government  which  depended  exclusively  upon  the  might 
of  bayonets  it  is  obvious  that  the  army  would  occupy  the  first  place 
in  the  life  of  the  nation.  The  officers,  the  backbone  of  the  army, 
were  distinguished  for  nothing  more  than  a  good  figure  and  smart 
uniform.  They  carried  over  into  civilian  life  the  rude  manners 
which  characterized  them  in  the  roughness  of  martial  existence, 
and  their  excessive  combativeness  and  cruelty  were  a  great  burden 
for  the  public.  Play,  women  and  gossip  were  the  chief  amusements 
of  garrison  life.  When  the  warriors  went  off  to  the  wars  their 
womenfolk  amused  themselves  very  agreeably  indeed,  and  to  such 
an  extent  that  many  disliked  the  approach  of  peace,  with  the  con- 
sequent return  of  the  husband  and  the  end  of  their  delightful  days. 
The  marshals  and  the  generals  set  the  worst  possible  example 
to  their  subordinates  in  cruelty,  dishonesty  and  lust.  Wherever 
these  fellows  pitched  their  tent  they  indulged  in  orgies  whose 
pomp  and  prodigality  shame  description.  During  his  six  months' 
stay  at  Lisbon,  Junot  had  such  an  open  table  that  300,000  francs 
were  insufficient  to  cover  expenses,  and  of  course  his  mistresses 
cost  him  no  less  than  his  table.  These  tremendous  expenses,  of 
course,  were  squeezed  from  the  conquered  land. 

All  these  upstarts  sought  to  establish  their  reputation  by  sur- 
passing pre-revolutionary  nobles  in  lavishness  and  extravagance. 
The  aforementioned  Junot  paid  a  certain  actress  12,000  francs 
for  an  hour  of  love.  Napoleon  never  went  beyond  4,000.  Murat 
would  never  spend  less  than  500  francs  for  drinks.  The  women 
of  these  military  leaders  didn't  lag  behind  in  crazy  prodigality.  Thus 
200,000  francs  for  a  toilette  was  not  an  infrequent  expense.  Duchess 
de  Junot  spent  10,000  francs  for  needle  and  thread.  All  these  ladies 
accoutred  in  little  more  than  a  title  and  free  of  the  weight  of  spirit 
or  heart,  were  strong  adherents  to  one  moral  principle:  live  and 
let  live.  There  was  no  such  thing  as  an  open,  deep  and  honest 

21s 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUMY 
love  for  these  folks.  One  seized  the  opportunity  whenever  it  came, 
and  then  shook  oneself  free  without  much  concern  on  either  side. 
This  was  the  society  which  owed  much  of  its  being  to  the  Corsi- 
can  and  one  can't  say  that  he  was  proud  of  it.  He  realized  that  he 
could  not  hope  for  power  and  consolidated  rule  until  he  had  suc- 
ceeded in  winning  over  all  the  royalist  groups.  But  despite  all  his 
efforts  the  latter  remained  on  one  side  and  met  his  efforts,  to  create 
a  new  nobility,  with  nothing  but  scorn.  Napoleon  was  furious  but 
did  not  show  his  wrath.  Instead,  he  tried  to  appear  grateful  and 
drew  the  ladies  of  the  old  regime  into  his  circle  as  court  ladies. 
But  he  only  succeeded  in  making  of  them  witnesses  to  the  scandal- 
ous practises  of  his  family  which  contributed  not  a  little  to  increas- 
ing the  aversion  of  these  elegant  groups  to  him,  who  showed  himself 
all  too  much  in  the  manners  of  an  upstart  when  he  put  on  the  glory 
of  his  imperialship.  Thus  he  contributed  to  his  own  downfall. 


# 


BABYLON  ON  THE  SEINE 


jiFTER  the  revolution,  and  in  the  first  third  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
/\  tury,  moral  conditions  in  France  were  not  a  bit  better  than 
they  had  been  in  pre-revolutionary  days.  The  ladies  of  the  demi- 
monde still  set  the  pace  for  the  rest  of  the  world,  Hiere  was,  to  be 
sure,  a  police  regulation  ordering  the  confiscation  of  all  publicly- 
exhibited  indecent  pictures  of  women,  but  so  great  was  the  number 
of  prostitutes  that  this  regulation  was  unenforceable.  There  were 
at  least  one  thousand  houses  in  Paris  where  public  balls  were  held 
and  where  the  half- world  sought  its  victims.  Since  the  court  pro- 
ceedings took  place  quite  publicly  even  when  the  most  delicate 
and  shameful  matters  were  being  discussed,  "for  only  unworthy 
females  would  be  present  at  that  sort  of  thing,"  old  and  young  ran 
to  these  hearings  as  though  they  were  the  most  spicy  theatre  per- 
formances. Efforts  were  made  in  the  theatres  to  restore  morals  and 
propriety.  In  1 794  the  former  French  theatre  was  reopened  under 
the  name  of  the  Equality  theatre,  in  which  the  actors  were  pledged 
to  maintain  the  sanctity  of  morality  and  modesty.  But  it  went  no 
further  than  the  pledge,  and  people  flocked  to  the  theatre  if  only  to 
save  light  and  heat  at  home. 

Prostitution  could  not  be  restrained  although  it  did  not  perhaps 
flaunt  itself  as  openly  as  before.  How  well  appointed  and  politely 
conducted  were  the  good  Parisian  brothels  of  that  time  can  be 
learned  from  the  memoirs  of  Castelii.  There  were  servants  in  livery 

220 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
and  the  ladies  and  gentlemen  wore  formal  clothes.  There  was  no 
rude  note,  no  conversation  or  amusement  that  would  offend  out- 
ward decency  or  honor.  But  after  the  souper  every  gentleman 
would  withdraw  with  the  fair  one  of  his  choice  into  her  room. 

Such  houses  catered  only  to  the  public  of  means.  But  poverty 
was  widespread  and  had  to  buy  its  joys  cheaply;  and  in  the  country 
too  they  did  without  any  veneer.  The  same  Castelli  relates  that  at 
Dijon  little  boys  between  seven  and  fourteen  would  act  as  panders. 
Every  one  praised  his  wares  to  the  traveller  and  sought  to  underbid 
his  competitor. 

In  such  circumstances  there  was  naturally  no  lack  of  secret 
subterranean  literature.  The  old  and  well-known  erotica  con- 
tinued to  be  published  and  there  were  always  new  and  eager  pur- 
chasers. One  moral  advance  can  be  noted  during  the  revolutionary 
period.  This  merchandise  was  no  longer  sold  so  openly;  ever  since 
1815  the  police  kept  surveillance  over  dealers  in  these  products. 
A  most  interesting  sidelight  as  to  how  the  distribution  was  effected 
is  given  us  by  the  same  Castelli  who  was  an  eye  witness  of  so  many 
erotic  scenes.  "At  the  Palais  Royal  I  was  frequently  amused  by 
an  old  fat  rascal  who  stood  right  at  the  entrance,  with  many  large 
and  small  books  resting  on  his  head,  reposing  under  his  arms,  and 
stuck  into  his  pockets,  bosom  and  even  boots.  He  looked  like  a 
walking  bookstall.  And  how  curiously  he  hawked  his  wares.  All 
that  he  could  offer  for  sale  publicly,  he  shouted  in  a  penetrating 
raucous  voice,  and  all  that  pertained  to  the  prohibited  articles,  he 
whispered  quietly  into  the  ears  of  passersby." 

The  restoration  received  a  difficult  inheritance  indeed,  and  it 
was  necessary  to  sweep  clean  with  an  iron  broom.  Napoleon  would 
not  have  a  nominal  censorship  but  actually  it  was  practised;  and 
after  his  downfall  it  was  again  officially  instituted.  But  it  was  ex- 
tremely difficult  to  force  the  disappearance  of  these  erotica  which 

221 


THE  EBOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 
flooded  the  market  and  were  available  at  every  stall.  The  authors 
were  not  to  be  reached  since  they  had  taken  refuge  in  other  lands 
during  the  political  storm.  Hence  it  was  decided  to  dam  up  the 
circulation  of  the  anti-religious  and  erotic  writings  at  the  con- 
sumer's end.  In  1825  the  government  issued  an  order  to  all  police 
inspectors  laying  down  the  general  procedure  for  the  suppression 
of  this  corrupt  and  corrupting  reading  matter.  But  alas!  the  success 
of  these  manoeuvres  was  contrary  to  original  expectations,  as  is 
evidenced  by  the  continuous  confiscations  and  litigations  in  which 
long  prison  and  money  sentences  were  imposed  upon  the  guilty. 
There  could  not  be  any  thoroughgoing  success  in  these  endeavors 
if  only  for  the  reason  that  all  the  wheels  of  the  organization  did  not 
click  together.  Thus,  the  dealers  and  publishers  in  order  to  forestall 
objections,  might  obtain  a  permit  direct  from  the  minister  to  publish 
a  certain  somewhat  free  but  valuable  work  of  literature;  but  the 
courts  would  reverse  the  decision  and  condemn  the  book  anew 
when  public  opinion  demanded  the  suppression  of  such  writings. 
These  prosecutions  frequently  fell  to  the  lot  of  books  which  belong 
to  the  best  type  of  erotic  French  literature,  as  La  Fontaine's  tales, 
for  example. 

In  the  first  third  of  the  nineteenth  century  there  came  into 
fashion  the  transparent  obscene  cards  which,  for  the  poorer  public, 
was  a  substitute  for  erotic  literature,  since  the  latter  had  become 
costly  as  a  result  of  the  suppression.  On  one  side  of  the  card  one 
saw  only  a  smooth  surface,  and  the  obscenity  of  the  representation 
only  became  visible  when  the  card  was  held  up  to  bright  light, 
as  to  a  burning  lamp.  Booksellers  didn't  bother  as  much  with  these 
smutty  articles  as  did  pedlers,  which  indeed  is  almost  as  true  today 
in  Paris. 

Now  people  began  to  look  back  with  admiration  and  yearning 
to  the  great  love  artists,  masculine  and  feminine,  of  bygone  times. 

222 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
Hence  there  was  a  great  market  for  the  memoirs  of  such  person- 
alities, which  were  now  proHferated  in  immense  quantities.  Now 
the  panurgics  of  famous  Hbertines  hke  the  Duke  of  Lauzun  were 
reprinted,  or  entirely  new  books  were  issued  to  satisfy  the  hunger 
for  these  piquanteries.  Some  versifiers  seized  upon  the  old  idea  of 
working  up  the  lives  of  the  hetairai  in  poetical  fashion.  Thus  Ninon 
de  Lenclos,  Marquise  de  Montespan,  and  Sophie  Arnould  were 
some  of  the  subjects  chosen  for  these  poetized  autobiographies. 
But  there  was  a  type  of  writing  much  more  popular  at  this  time, 
the  so-called  secret  memoirs  which  usually  appeared  anonymously 
under  fictitious  names,  since  the  contents  were  very  definitely 
objectionable.  To  a  considerable  extent  these  memoirs  of  piquant 
details  derived  from  the  private  lives  of  the  French  kings,  from  the 
families  of  Orleans,  of  the  queen  Hortense  and  the  royal  family, 
the  Duke  of  Normandy,  son  of  Louis  xvi,  etc.  The  authorities 
took  drastic  measures  against  these  writings,  and  many,  which  were 
issued  with  impunity  in  German  translations,  brought  their  pub- 
lishers in  France  long  prison  terms  or  high  monetary  penalties. 

There  were  enough  novels  appearing  at  this  time  in  addition  to 
the  types  just  mentioned.  Perhaps  one  of  the  most  popular  was 
Madame  Potiphar.  In  this  story  Pompadour  is  the  heroine  of  the 
title;  and  the  author  depicts  the  amorous  adventures  of  an  ambitious 
solicitor  with  two  nuns.  Because  the  book  contains  about  sixteen 
free  situations  it  was  confiscated.  The  same  fate  was  shared  by 
others.  Nor  was  France  poor  in  collections  of  erotic  songs.  These 
went  the  whole  hog  and  chattered  volubly  and  unconcernedly 
about  everything  connected  with  sex,  hesitating  at  nothing  at  all. 
Hence  we  cannot  be  surprised  that  many  of  them  were  confiscated, 
and  those  responsible,  severely  punished.  Thus,  in  1844  a  hawker 
who  had  sold  the  So?igster  of  the  Daughters  of  Love  was  sentenced 
to  pay  6,000  francs  and  in  addition  to  serve  five  years  in  jail.  This 

223 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOHY  OF  FRANCE 
collection  contained  forty-five  chanso?is  of  Beranger  in  addition 
to  Piron's  Ode  to  Priapiis,  and  was  tame  in  comparison  with  others. 
Much  filthier  are  the  collections  like  the  Broad  Songs  of  Priapiis  or 
the  Satirical  Parnassus  of  the  nineteenth  century,  which  in  ob- 
scenity rival  the  most  lascivious  products  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

We  have  already  mentioned  that  memoirs  were  directed  against 
the  royal  families  no  less  than  against  other  humans.  The  typical 
Frenchman  is  not  excessively  oppressed  by  feelings  of  awful  re- 
spect. Many  dozens  of  scandalosa  could  be  mentioned  here,  but 
we  shall  give  only  one  specific  illustration.  That  Napoleon  i  was 
no  paragon  of  virtue,  needs  no  exposition  to  the  student  of  history. 
He  had  his  recognized  mistresses,  and  gladly  strayed  to  foreign 
pastures  to  boot.  But  a  much  more  welcome  butt  for  erotic  jests 
was  found  later  in  the  person  of  his  namesake.  Napoleon  in,  and 
his  marriage  to  the  fiery  Spaniard  Eugenie  de  Montijo.  The  chau- 
vinistic French  people  turned  up  their  noses  at  this  mesalliance, 
much  as  their  grandfathers  had  done  when  Louis  xvi  had  brought 
the  Austrian  Marie  Antoinette  home  with  him.  But  the  broad  sa- 
tiric verses  of  this  time  which  were  quickly  and  continually  being 
born,  also  disappeared  quickly,  and  were  not  filled  with  that  drivel- 
ling hate  which  made  so  many  cognate  effusions  of  the  eighteenth 
century  so  unpalatable.  An  example  is  the  Wife  of  desar,  a  biog- 
raphy of  Eugenie  de  Montijo,  Queen  of  France,  by  Mme.  U.  R. 
(M.  de  S.).  These  initials  were  designed  to  give  the  impression  that 
Madame  Urbain  Rattazzi  (Marie  de  Solins)  was  the  author  of 
this  pamphlet.  However,  it  was  soon  discovered  that  a  certain 
Vesinier  was  the  author,  whereupon  he  was  sentenced  to  eighteen 
months  of  jail,  and  i,ooo  francs  fine.  This  book  tells  the  supposed 
loves  of  Eugenie  with  three  princes  of  the  house  of  Orleans,  Gen- 
eral Navarez,  Rothschild,  etc. 

After  the  Franco-Prussian  War,  Paris  was  inundated  by  the  so- 

224 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUKY 
called  Bodinguettes,  which  were  printed  in  just  a  few  sheets,  in 
all  formats,  and  occasionally  with  illustrations.  They  were  charac- 
terized by  the  grossest  license  and  displayed  none  of  that  customary 
Gallic  grace  and  gallantry.  Even  the  famous  opponent  of  Napoleon, 
Henri  Rochefort,  also  contributed  to  this  fad.  After  the  destruction 
of  the  Commune,  the  restored  government  went  at  these  foul 
things  hammer  and  tong,  and  it  succeeded  in  checking  the  abuse. 
In  the  preceding  century,  the  clergy  was  continually  being  rep- 
resented as  "loving",  and  tons  of  rubbish  had  been  emptied  out  of 
pots  over  the  heads  of  the  unfortunate  servants  of  the  church  who 
had  sunk  quite  low,  it  must  be  admitted.  The  revolution  deprived 
many  of  them  of  their  privileges,  displaced  them  from  the  center  of 
interest  and  the  restoration  appointed  them  to  a  very  modest  place 
indeed.  Hence  the  number  of  pamphlets  directed  against  them 
at  this  time  did  not  compare  with  the  swarm  of  the  earlier  period. 
Most  of  these  scandal  stories  were  written  in  the  form  of  love 
stories.  The  Child  of  a  Jesuit  by  Laumer  (1822)  described  the  im- 
moral life  of  a  Jesuit's  pupil,  rich  in  licentious  and  shameful  deeds, 
until  his  sentence  to  the  gallows.  Other  stories  like  The  Woman  of 
the  Jesuit  (1826)  and  the  Mysteries  of  a  Bishopric  (1872)  contain 
vigorous  attacks  lit  with  glowing  sensuaHty  against  the  church 
and  its  servitors.  Two  books  sought  to  give  actual  source  materials 
for  a  history  of  the  infamies  of  the  church  and  the  clergy,  erotic 
and  otherwise,  and  thus  to  have  an  educative  influence;  they  were 
Crimes^  Delinquencies  and  Scandals  in  the  Bosom  of  the  Church, 
by  Villeneuve  and  Casenade  (1861),  and  Morals  of  Convents,  Ab- 
beys, and  Monasteries  (1843).  The  broad  descriptions  of  intimate 
scenes  and  the  ostensible  generalizations,  rendered  the  latter  work 
.  objectionable;  and  it  soon  became  the  object  of  continuous  re- 
prints and  suppressions. 

In  our  times  we  have  experienced  a  tremendous  growth  of  Sex- 


225 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FMANCE 
ology,  the  science  of  sex.  In  the  nineteenth  century  we  can  see 
the  beginnings  of  the  application  of  the  scientific  all-conquering 
viewpoint  and  method  to  the  study  of  this  most  important  realm, 
and  the  compilation  of  the  first  fruits  of  this  method  as  garnered  in 
various  introductory  researches.  The  first  place  should  be  assigned 
to  a  book  of  Jacques-Antoine  Dulaure  (1805)  in  which  he  treats 
of  phallic  worship  under  the  title:  The  Gods  of  Generatioji,  the 
first  English  translation  of  which  has  recently  appeared  in  the 
United  States.  Like  Dupuis  before  him,  Dulaure  derives  the  phallic 
cult  from  solar  worship;  but  he  gives  an  excellent  description  of 
the  ceremonies  among  the  Egyptians,  Syrians,  Jews,  Phoenicians, 
Phrygians,  Persians,  and  Assyrians.  In  addition,  he  presents  a  de- 
tailed exposition  of  lingam  worship  among  the  Hindus,  treats  brief- 
ly of  the  related  cult  among  the  Mexicans,  and  then,  turning  to 
the  Greeks  and  Romans,  he  considers  the  cult  of  Venus  in  relation 
to  phallic  worship.  After  considering  these  rites  among  the  early 
European  peoples,  he  gives  a  highly  interesting  and  instructive  ac- 
count of  this  worship  among  the  medieval  Christians  who  in  cer- 
tain respects  surpassed  the  immoral  orgies  of  antiquity. 

The  noted  bibliophile  Paul  Lacroix  composed  his  complete  His- 
tory of  Prostitution  in  185 1-3.  This  is  the  first  comprehensive  work 
written  on  this  important  subject,  and  it  remained  decisive  until 
the  appearance  of  Bloch's  monumental  work.  Unfortunately,  it 
remained  a  torso,  for  Lacroix,  weary  of  perpetual  legal  persecu- 
tions, lost  all  desire  to  complete  his  task.  One  seeks  in  vain  for 
sources  or  exact  quotations  of  contemporary  material,  so  that 
scientific  verification  is  extremely  difficult  and  the  usefulness  of 
the  work  is  thereby  impaired.  Despite  the  subject  matter  there  isn't 
a  loose  allusion  in  the  book.  Quite  on  the  contrary,  so  often  do  angry 
protests  occur,  that  one  gains  the  impression  that  the  author  was 
a  prudish  moralist;  but  other  scientific  writings  by  Lacroix  prove 

226 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
that  he  had  a  fine  understanding  of  erotic  and  pornographic  Htera- 
ture. 

The  literature  of  popularization  also  found  many  representatives. 
Among  the  numerous  guides  for  lovers  there  should  be  men- 
tioned the  Physiology  of  the  First  Night  of  Marriage  by  Octave 
de  Saint-Ernest  (1842).  Warnings  against  venereal  disease  were 
sounded  by  the  Protector  against  the  Disease  of  Venus  of  Rubempre 
(1826)  and  the  very  widely  known  treatise  of  the  physician 
Tardieu,  Medico-Legal  Moral  Offences. 

There  were  any  number  of  writers  who  saw  to  it  that  those 
who  derived  pleasure  from  reading  books  on  sex  should  not  go 
unappeased.  In  1870  Jean  Richepin  issued  his  poetry  collection 
La  Chanson  de  Gucux.  The  eroticism  of  these  songs,  however 
extreme,  is  just  gibed  with  the  taste  of  the  time,  and  in  a  month 
the  first  edition  was  exhausted.  Richepin  paid  for  his  success  by 
spending  the  next  month  in  jail.  It  is  unfortunate  that  such  a  gifted 
writer  did  not  turn  his  talents  to  better  tasks. 

Paul  de  Kock  (i  794-1 871)  found  numerous  readers  for  his  ri- 
bald stories  of  sex  sins  in  modern  French  society  which  he  crammed 
into  his  fifty-five  volumes.  His  namesake  Henry  did  not  lag  far 
behind  in  lasciviousness.  He  sought  to  gain  the  favor  of  his  readers 
with  his  saucy,  scandalous  work.  History  of  Celebrated  Libertines 
(1870),  and  wrote  numerous  other  risque  stories.  The  best  known  is 
The  Murder  in  the  Chestnut  Forest^  in  which  the  bloodthirsty  and 
lubric  achieve  a  unique  amalgam. 

The  foremost  representative  of  the  gallant  novel  in  the  last  quar- 
ter of  the  nineteenth  century  and  the  cleverest,  was  indisputably 
Marcel  Prevost.  In  most  of  his  works  he  depicted  the  intimate 
relations  between  men  and  women  with  rare  magic  of  language 
and  a  wonderful  comprehension  of  the  physiological  and  psycho- 

227 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
logical  motives  behind  them.  His  pictures  are  almost  oppressive 
in  their  fidelity  to  truth. 

The  importance  of  these  and  other  unnamed  writers  lies  in  their 
natural  representation  of  contemporary  circumstances  which  they 
portray  without  disguise.  In  the  third  empire  the  cocotte  again 
came  to  power  and  set  her  seal  upon  French  life.  She  drew  every- 
thing under  her  sway  and  dictated  all  laws.  The  morality  of  the 
cocotte  was  decisive  in  all  realms  of  sexual  morality.  The  spirit 
of  the  cocotte  dictated  the  mode,  and  controlled  the  forms  of 
expression  in  the  realm  of  the  spirit  and  of  language.  Of  course, 
her  field  of  action  has  always  been  in  the  domain  of  sexuality,  and 
she  remains  true  to  her  own  class  when  she  reduces  all  relations 
to  the  common  denominator  of  her  coarse  taste.  With  her  polyp- 
like arms  she  tears  everything  to  herself  with  irresistible  force, 
and  the  victims  who  can  no  longer  envisage  redemption  from  her 
embraces,  finally  surrender  completely  to  her  with  body  and  soul 
and  deem  themselves  fortunate  when  they  are  permitted  to  sing 
the  praises  of  their  mistress.  In  an  age  when  the  cocotte  is  supreme, 
there  can  be  no  more  inward  cult  than  that  of  the  female  body, 
no  theme  of  conversation  more  important  than  the  description  of 
adventures  and  chances  in  the  service  of  Venus.  There  could  be 
no  greater  praise  for  a  woman  than  when  her  praises  were  sung 
in  everyone's  mouth. 

The  real  beginning  of  the  supremacy  of  the  prostitute  in  litera- 
ture and  drama  began  in  1 840  with  the  Lady  of  the  Camelias  by 
Dumas  jils.  A  strumpet  falls  in  love  with  a  young  man  of  distin- 
guished family  who  is  naturally  not  in  agreement  with  his  choice. 
After  his  family  remonstrates  with  her  by  appealing  to  her  love 
for  him  and  pointing  out  the  dire  consequences  of  such  a  union, 
she  decides  to  give  him  up.  She  pretends  to  her  betrothed  that  she 
really  loves  another,  leaves  him,  and  finally  dies  of  tuberculosis. 

228 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUMY 
The  question  that  immediately  occurs  to  us  is  this:  Are  the 
characters  of  prostitutes  and  such,  capable  of  poetic  or  dramatic 
development  at  all?  The  answer  would  seem  to  be  an  affirmative 
one.  A  false  step  or  a  breach  of  marital  fidelity  very  frequently 
has  consequences  of  a  tragic  nature.  Surely  no  one  will  be  intol- 
erant enough  to  insist  that  one  error  is  enough  to  seal  the  fate  of 
a  woman  and  to  be  taken  as  the  index  of  her  worth.  Sin  demands 
repentance,  and  this  is  found  sufficiently  in  regret  and  sorrow. 
Such  regret  is  an  inward  process,  a  protracted  psychological  pro- 
cess, and  presupposes  lengthy  analysis  of  changing  impulses  and 
reactions.  This  is  difficult  to  achieve  within  the  narrow  limits  of 
a  drama,  destined  for  representation  on  the  stage,  and  which  must 
reckon  with  the  relatively  short  time  available  for  its  production. 
The  problem  thus  posed  would  seem  to  be  much  more  amenable 
to  epic,  than  dramatic  treatment. 

But  the  nineteenth  century  French  dramatists  did  not  aim  at 
creating  a  logically  constructed  theatrical  piece  corresponding  to 
the  laws  of  internal  probability;  for  in  their  plays  of  adultery  it  is 
not  the  results  of  waywardness  that  are  represented..  Not  at  all. 
This  situation  is  used  in  all  possible  piquant  permutations  and  com- 
binations in  order  to  amuse  the  public  for  the  greater  enrichment  of 
the  author's  purse.  The  French  believe  thatdt  is  permissible  in  the 
theatre  to  live  somewhat  in  the  fashion  of  the  demi-monde,  to 
violate  the  marriage  vow,  if  only  the  dramatist  and  public  can  get 
a  satisfactory  ending  for  the  whole  mess. 

If  one  asks  why  these  pieces  of  adultery,  with  their  undressing 
scenes,  became  so  enormously  popular,  the  answer  is  not  difficult 
to  find.  Nineteenth  century  life  was  exciting  and  nerve-wracking 
in  its  mad  pursuit  of  success,  and  in  most  people  it  helped  to  de- 
stroy the  normal  uses  of  composure.  The  average  Frenchman,  of  an 
evening,  sought  in  the  theatre  refreshment  and  entertainment.  He 

229 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FRANCE 
respected  esprit,  and  if  the  dialogue  was  witty  and  interspersed 
with  erotic  allusions,  the  author  or  dramatist  had  fulfilled  his  duty 
and  deserved  approbation. 

The  material  of  these  comic  writers  and  dramatists  were  usually 
taken  from  life.  Venal  love  is  found  among  men  and  women  alike. 
Thus  Poritzky  relates  that  many  of  the  poor  students  in  Paris  were 
able  to  keep  their  heads  above  water  only  because  they  were 
erotically  potent.  TTie  demand,  by  insatiable  licentious  women, 
was  very  great.  Students  whom  nature  had  especially  favored 
were  ardently  desired  and  besought — and  well  recompensed  for 
their  labor. 

The  novel  stood  on  the  same  low  plane  with  the  theatre  during 
the  third  kingdom.  The  ordinary  feuilleton  story  prettified  vice 
and  fitted  it  out  with  all  the  splendor  of  romance.  The  adulterous 
woman  was  an  angel,  the  courtesan  always  a  delightful  creature, 
and  her  profession  a  fascinating  fault.  Lovers  and  seducers  were 
always  handsome,  generous,  extremely  masculine,  irresistible.  The 
deceived  husbands  on  the  other  hand  were  always  ill-mannered, 
dumb  or  simply  ridiculous.  And  every  intrigue  trailed  a  cloud  of 
musk  and  rice  powder.  Intimacies!  That  was  the  shibboleth  of 
the  novel  and  the  theatre  alike.  In  their  diary,  the  brothers  Gon- 
court  have  an  entry  under  February  14,  1866,  in  which  they  quote/ 
a  dictum  of  Dumas  the  elder.  "What  do  you  wish,"  he  called  out, 
"when  you  can  only  make  money  in  the  theatre  by  making  girls' 
tights  rip.  These  constantly  ripping  tights  made  the  fortune  of 
Directeur  Holstein.  He  ordered  his  dancers  to  wear  tights  that 
had  a  ripped  seam,  always  on  the  same  spot.  Those  were  the  days 
for  opera  glasses.  But  finally  the  censor  interfered  and  with  his 
interference,  most  dealers  in  opera  glasses  went  out  of  business." 

Two  citations  may  be  adduced  here  to  characterize  the  morality 
of  that  period.  In  the  excellent  novel  drawn  from  life  by  a  German 

230 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
author,  and  entitled  the  Tale  of  a  Clerk,  we  find  the  following-f 
statement:  "Lucian  deeply  enjoyed  this  lounging  in  Paris,  utterly 
idle,  purely  a  spectator,  and  was  richer  in  pleasures  than  he  had 
been  five  days  before.  In  Montmartre  he  had  become  acquainted 
with  the  caverns  of  luxurious  vice;  with  orgies  which  left  one  cold 
because  they  were  ordered  and  paid  for,  and  did  not  proceed  from 
genuine  emotion  but  were  enacted  by  actors  and  actresses;  naked 
dancing  and  living  illustrations  of  Aretino's  sonnets  and  the  dia- 
logues of  Luisa  Sigea,  and  scenes  from  the  life  of  The  Philosophical 
Theresa  and  the  Marquise  of  Montrevers.  Now  Lucian  learnt  what 
real  vice  was,  and  it  is  so  cheap  in  Paris,  He  came  to  opium  dives 
and  to  lascivious  balls  in  the  quarter  of  St.  Michel,  in  the  atelier 
region  of  Montparnasse.  He  visited  the  Roman  baths  where  amid 
clouds  of  steam  there  were  arranged  the  erotic  figures  found  on 
Greek  pottery  and  vases,  where  the  invention  of  Nero  did  not 
appear  at  all  shameful  in  this  Olympian  atmosphere,  in  the  circle 
of  enraptured  spectators,  but  rather  beautiful,  since  it  was  handsome 
youths  who  were  acting  out  the  pantomime." 

It  will  very  likely  be  objected  that  this  is  only  a  novel  in  which 
no  limits  are  fixed  to  the  author's  fantasy.  But  in  real  life  however 
there  are  bounds  set  to  profligacy.  Yet  this  captatio  benevolentice 
is  here  being  employed  on  an  unworthy  cause.  Let  us  hear  what 
an  author  like  Alexander  Moszkowski  says,  who  speaks  out  of  his 
own  experience  and  who  is  wholly  reliable:  "A  flood  of  nudity 
inundated  the  whole  of  Paris.  With  the  exception  of  the  Elite 
theatre  which  found  a  natural  dike  in  its  fixed  repertoire,  no  stage 
was  able  to  withstand  the  wild  flood,  and  other  show  places  grew 
up  like  mushrooms  which  varied  the  theme  of  nakedness  either 
stupidly  or  wittily,  as  the  case  may  be.  In  the  Horloge  Theatre 
on  the  damps  Elysees,  Prevost's  Half  Virgins  was  enacted  in  trav- 
estied society  scenes.  The  young  ladies  of  this  piece  were  dressed 

231 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FMANCE 
very  correctly  in  front,  but  when  they  turned  their  backs  they 
revealed  a  wide  split  extending  from  the  neck  to  the  calves,  so  that 
every  half  virgin  could  be  either  an  elegant  lady  of  the  salon,  or 
a  Venus  Kallipygos,  depending  on  her  position.  The  Olympia  The- 
atre in  the  Boulevard  acted  out  a  pantomimic  drama  which  rep- 
resented all  the  phases  of  a  bridal  night  with  painful  accuracy. 
In  Paris  it  was  no  longer  worth  the  trouble  of  mobilizing  the  censor 
and  the  police  against  the  living  enactment  of  these  details. 

"In  the  Cigale,  an  attractive  suburban  temple  of  the  nude  muse, 
nakedness  overflowed  to  the  other  side  of  the  footlights  among 
the  spectators.  After  there  was  no  more  clothing  left  for  the  actors 
to  take  off,  the  orchestra  leader  and  musicians  began  to  remove 
everything  dispensable,  and  soon  the  public  began  to  participate 
in  the  orgy  of  disrobing.  In  many  establishments  of  the  Pigalle 
district  this  stark  nakedness  took  on  allegorical  forms.  The  seven 
deadly  sins  or  the  cardinal  virtues  were  shown  as  animated  moving 
pictures  without  any  subterfuges  of  tights;  and  the  effect  was 
heightened  by  the  introduction  of  optical  aids,  especially  mirror 
reflections  which  still  left  something  to  guess  about,  even  when 
one  saw  everything  clearly  with  one's  eyes.  In  addition  there  were 
parties  which  did  not  differ  in  any  way  from  the  scenes  represented 
in  the  erotic  theatres  of  the  revolutionary  period.  The  way  was  led 
by  the  artists'  guild  of  Montmartre  with  its  sensational  arrange- 
ments of  the  Bal  des  quatrez-arts  and  the  Bal  du  Courier  which 
were  carried  on  in  the  wide  spaces  of  the  Moulin  Rouge.  These 
balls  were  under  the  dictatorship  of  a  strictly  enforced  regulation 
concerning  costume  which  was  constantly  changed,  sometimes 
ancient  Greek  or  Oriental  or  Renaissance,  etc.  Everyone  had  to 
come  before  a  whole  set  of  authorities  who  would  pass  on  the 
authenticity  and  correctness  of  one's  costume  before  one  could 
be  admitted.  Any  one  who  was  unfortunate  enough  to  wear  a 

232 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
costume  not  absolutely  in  keeping  with  the  decreed  style  was  kept 
out.  Until  midnight  the  festivities  were  a  delight  to  the  eyes,  with 
its  recreation  of  a  past  epoch.  Everything  was  utterly  decorous, 
and  not  a  gesture  or  allusion  would  betray  the  real  purpose  of 
the  ball.  Then  a  single  woman  would  suddenly  appear  in  the  gal- 
lery, bathed  in  a  flood  of  light.  This  one  was  the  bearer  of  good 
tidings  and  the  living  semaphore  of  the  festivities.  With  one  little 
tug  her  dress  fell  from  her  and  this  was  the  signal;  in  a  moment 
every  woman  had  cast  off  her  every  bit  of  covering.  Clothes  were 
now  off  and  flesh  was  on.  With  clothes  hurled  off,  shame  was 
exorcised  and  wild  passionate  orgies  were  now  begun.  The  chron- 
icler deems  it  necessary  to  draw  the  curtain  on  the  herd  exhibits 
of  these  scenes  worse  than  bestiality." 

But  these  were  private  performances.  What  was  the  situation 
with  regard  to  those  in  public?  Zola  protested  indignantly  against 
the  applause  which  would  always  greet  one  of  these  so-called  act- 
resses whenever  she  would  emphasize  some  obscene  expression 
by  some  bodily  motion  or  contortion.  "What  a  disgrace! "  he  ex- 
claimed, "on  the  day  when  some  woman  will  come  to  the  exalted 
idea  of  playing  the  whore  au  naturel.  All  Paris  will  be  beside  itself 
with  enthusiasm.  And  how  can  it  be  otherwise?  We  have  fallen 
into  shame  and  ignominy,  we  are  the  bastard  offspring  of  an 
accursed  age.  We  have  only  got  so  far  as  revealing  the  breasts, 
and  showing  the  thighs,  but  we  shall  certainly  fall  into  the  gutter 
unless  we  arouse  ourselves  and  become  free  men." 

Zola's  call  died  unheard.  Marcel  Prevost  shows  us  with  inexorable 
sharpness  the  utterly  immoral  life  of  his  time  and  nation,  and  the 
reflected  image  is  anything  but  pleasing.  An  example  of  the  worst 
moral  dissoluteness  combined  with  corporeal  intactness,  i.e.,  hy- 
meneal imperf oration,  is  given  in  the  Half  Virgins.  Here  everything 
is  permitted  the  educated  girl  of  the  better  classes  provided  only 

233 


V 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FMANCE 
that  she  enters  marriage  with  an  unimpaired  maidenhead.  It  is  per- 
fectly evident  that  under  such  circumstances  a  morally  pure  mar- 
riage is  impossible,  as  well  as  that  this  type  of  parent  cannot  be 
a  model  for  her  children. 

Most  of  the  works  of  the  other  writers  of  entertainment  litera- 
ture touch  the  borders  of  the  pornographic.  One  of  these  deserves 
brief  notice,  he  who  wrote  under  the  pseudonym  of  Willy.  His 
real  name  was  Henry  Gauthier-Villars  and  he  never  wrote  about 
anything  other  than  sex  life,  of  which  he  treated  all  the  possible 
forms  of  adultery  and  perversion.  The  representation  and  choice 
of  language  is  so  unrestrained  that  he  is  only  one  little  step  from 
the  morass  of  pornography.  His  writings  are  dangerous  because 
of  their  gracious  and  vivid  depictions  which  say  almost  everything 
in  half-concealed  word-plays,  or  at  least  manage  to  hint  at  every- 
thing so  that  no  doubts  are  left.  The  reader's  imagination  is  com- 
pelled to  collaborate  and  to  spin  further  the  thought  begun  by  the 
author.  Willy  draws  his  sexual  pictures  with  naturalness,  but  he 
is  far  inferior  to  Zola  in  objectivity. 

Paris  still  remains  the  model  city  of  Venus  vulghaga,  and  only 
Brussels  offers  really  serious  competition.  The  stranger  just  come 
to  Babylon  on  the  Seine  generally  seeks  erotic  pleasures.  Very  early 
therefore  there  were  to  be  found  printed  directories  of  guides  to  I 
women's  flesh  marts.  These  brothel  directories  were  already  in 
vogue  during  the  eighteenth  century  and,  as  an  example,  one  may 
be  cited.  It  bears  the  remarkable  title  Funeral  Oration  of  the  very 
High  and  Mighty  Mme.  Justine  ( 1 786) ;  it  is  said  to  have  had  a  very 
prominent  personage  as  its  author.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  as 
population  grew  and  means  of  transportation  brought  more  visitors 
to  the  great  capital  of  pleasure,  these  directories  became  more/ 
numerous  and  obtrusive.  In  every  little  bookshop  and  dance  hall  | 
these  Guides  to  the  Stranger  in  Paris  were  sold,  either  as  collections 

234 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
of  obscene  pictures,  or  more  usually  as  printed  manuals  to  the  plea- 
sure-seeking provincial  or  stranger.  The  address  of  the  brothel  and  the 
jades,  their  prices,  and  the  catalogue  of  their  sexual  practices  and 
perversities  were  described  with  breath-taking  frankness  and  ex- 
haustive detail.  One  of  these  manuals  bore  the  amusing  title:  Les 
cocottes,  biches  et  lorettes.  Naturally  such  guides  had  only  a  short 
lease  of  life  for  they  soon  were  out  of  date  or  were  rapidly  con- 
fiscated. Nevertheless,  this  was  a  very  profitable  business  for  the 
unscrupulous  individuals  who  engaged  in  it,  as  we  can  judge  from 
the  enormous  number  of  these  guides. 

The  horrible  mixture  of  cruelty  and  passion,  so  peculiar  to  Mar- 
quis de  Sade,  as  well  as  the  predilection  for  philosophical  excursions 
in  defence  of  his  perversities,  did  not  remain  without  influence  in 
the  nineteenth  century.  A  work  was  published  about  1830  which 
was  so  full  of  the  spirit  of  Sade  that  for  a  while  it  was  attributed  to 
the  latter.  Only  a  careful  examination  reveals  that  the  book  could 
not  have  been  written  in  1 803,  as  the  title  page  declares,  since  it  deals 
with  characters  who  lived  under  Louis-Philippe.  The  book  is  The 
Dominican.  At  that  time,  too,  a  mass  of  obscene  political  pamphlets 
was  thrown  upon  the  market.  My  Cousin  Matthew  by  Rabau  is 
one  of  the  most  important  of  this  class.  Another  is  The  Pranks  of 
the  High  Ladies,  containing  a  wealth  of  gossip  and  scandals  con- 
cerning actresses  and  well-known  society  women. 

The  first  important  erotic  type  character  who  bobbed  up  about 
1830  was  that  of  Mayeux  by  Travies.  He  is  the  born  cynic,  practi- 
cally always  erotic  if  not  directly  obscene.  His  bodily  malformation 
made  him  desirable  only  to  insatiable  women,  who  knew  how  to 
appreciate  his  extraordinary  potency.  Hence  quite  apart  from  his 
pictorial  representation,  he  figures  as  the  panurgic  hero  of  erotic 
novels,  such  as  The  Secret  Loves  of  Mayeux;  The  Twelve  Labors 
of  Hercules;  The  Twelve  (erotic)  Days'  Work;  etc. 

235 


THE  EHOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FMANCE 
Louis  Protat  was  the  author  of  the  notorious  and  grotesque  erotic 
tale  Serrefesse.  Some  notion  of  its  contents  may  be  gained  from 
inspecting  the  characters.  Pinecul,  whoremonger  and  thief;  Cuil- 
lardin,  chief  sewer  cleaner;  Cruche,  supposedly  a  eunuch,  seller 
of  condoms;  Pinolie,  Cruche's  wife;  and  Serrefesse.  The  whole 
plot  hinges  on  the  fact  that  Cuillardin  had  raped  Serrefesse  and 
after  she  has  shot  herself,  her  betrayer  is  put  out  of  the  way  by 
Cruche  and  his  gang.  The  language  is  foul  though  there  are  traces 
of  wit  in  the  volume.  Another  book  of  Protat's,  The  Examination  .- 
of  Flora,  eclipses  all  its  contemporaries  both  in  erotic  license  and, 
in  this  one  case,  in  literary  value  as  well. 

A  few  more  of  erotic  writers  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth 
century  must  be  mentioned.  Le  Nismois  wrote  many  pieces,  mostly 
for  the  theatre  but  no  director  in  the  world  would  be  found  to 
produce  any  of  his  works.  One  of  the  most  fruitful  French  erotic , 
writers  is  the  pornographer  who  hid  himself  behind  the  initials  : 
E.  D.  This  Dumoulin  had  a  certain  amount  of  literary  skill.  He 
was  a  flagellant,  but  was  also  able  to  appreciate  other  types  of  sex 
activity,  for  orgies  of  natural  indulgence  are  plentifully  littered 
throughout  his  books.  Some  of  the  titles:  Procession  of  the  Bare, 
Buttocks,  Turned-Up  Skirts,  Schoolmistress,  indicate  sufficiently! 
the  type  of  porneia  that  they  contain.  He  is  the  foremost  rep- 
resentative of  flagellational  eroticism.  In  the  last  named  novel,  the 
adventures  are  related  with  honesty  and  a  luxuriousness  of  detail 
which  argues  for  personal  knowledge  and  participation.  There  are 
also  numerous  tribadic  scenes  in  this  girls'  school.  In  The  Animated 
Marble  he  treats  a  variant  of  the  Pygmalion  and  Galatea  theme. 
The  hero  of  the  romance  enkindles  passion  in  the  living  but  marble- 
cold  statue  of  a  princess.  In  numerous  other  books  the  author  never 
forgets  to  indicate  that  he  is  also  the  author  of  other  smut. 
The  best  tribadic  novel  of  the  time  undoubtedly  was  A  Summer 

23§ 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NENETEENTH  CENTUEY 
in  the  Country  ( 1 868),  long  attributed  to  Gustave  Droz,  who  never- 
theless was  able  to  obtain  the  legal  right  to  have  his  name  removed 
from  the  title  page.  This  novel  contains  the  correspondence  of  two 
young  ladies,  a  governess  and  her  former  pupil,  who  inform  each 
other  of  the  emotions  rising  in  their  young  souls,  of  their  erotic 
observations  and  experiences,  and  finally  their  first  introductions 
to  love. 


*t^'^£**£**e**«*»c**!**s**f*^ 


CHAPTEK  XVI 

THE  HEYDAY  OF  OBSCENE  ART 


THERE  has  been  but  one  great  age  of  erotic  literature  in  France, 
namely  the  eighteenth.  No  previous  period,  nor  any  subse- 
quent one,  can  be  compared  to  those  halcyon  days  of  the  seventeen 
hundreds.  Nevertheless  we  shall  find  some  great  writers  in  this 
field  during  the  nineteenth  century,  men  who  made  signal  con- 
tributions to  the  understanding  of  erotic  problems  and  their  rep- 
resentation in  letters. 

The  first  great  name  to  be  considered  is  Honore  de  Balzac  ( 1 799- 
1850).  In  his  Droll  Stories,  he  endeavored  to  revive  the  fresh  sensu- 
ality of  the  old  fabliaux  and  the  roughness  of  Rabelais  in  modern 
combination.  In  the  language  of  the  old  French  he  tells  stories  of 
the  most  suggestive  sort  after  the  manner  of  the  Italian  novelists, 
and  perpetrates  many  a  jolly  jest  on  the  way.  The  work  contains 
thirty-six  stories,  each  one  gayer  than  the  preceding,  and  all  going 
as  far  as  possible  in  daring  and  suggestiveness.  Who  can  refrain 
from  laughter  at  the  monk  Amader  who  possesses  the  best  instru- 
ment for  winning  the  suit  of  the  abbey?  Or  who  will  not  be  amused 
at  the  cuckold  who  can  no  longer  recognize  a  certain  thing?  The 
panurgics  of  the  good  king  Louis  xi  really  belong  to  the  realm  of 
scatology.  The  king  arranges  a  peculiar  sort  of  entertainment.  At 
the  instigation  of  his  paramour  he  mixes  a  purgative  with  the  food 
and  when  the  effects  begin  to  show  themselves  he  hinders  every 

238 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUMY 
one  from  visiting  the  toilet.  The  resultant  scenes  are  of  oversvhelm- 
ing  comedy. 

In  poetry  there  was  a  bard  who  stood  out  considerably  above 
the  remainder  of  contemporary  singers  both  because  of  the  contents 
and  the  influence  of  his  work.  Beranger  (1780-1857)  was  the  real 
creator  of  the  French  chanson,  and  is  still  today  famed  as  the 
national  poet.  He  sang  for  the  people  and  captured  their  native 
notes  as  perhaps  no  other.  The  singing  quality  of  his  songs  captivated 
all  hearts.  He  knew  how  to  live  himself  into  the  soul  of  those  who 
were  tried  and  rejected  by  fate,  and  this  capacity  of  sympathy 
and  understanding  won  him  the  affection  of  all.  Curiously  enough, 
Beranger  is  almost  as  great  in  political  satire  as  in  simple  songs.  But 
his  chief  strength  lies  in  his  erotic  chanson.  He  does  not  represent 
the  overwhelming  passion,  or  sentimental  love;  he  knows  only  the 
dalliance  with  love  which  he  celebrates  and  decorates  with  true 
gallic  wit  and  jest.  One  must  laugh  at  the  worthy  philistine  who 
boasts  of  the  transparent  friendship  of  the  senator;  or  at  the  epitha- 
lamion  to  the  lovers  who  have  been  living  out  of  wedlock  for  the 
past  twenty  years.  By  the  side  of  these  there  are  the  glorifications 
of  adultery,  of  carnal  lust,  of  the  carpe  diem,  which  has  sometimes 
a  depressing  and  even  harmful  eff^ect.  Everything  occurs  cheek  by 
jowl  in  these  collections.  The  moving  farewell  of  Mary  Stuart 
near  a  bawdy  street  song,  and  a  song  of  King  Yvetot  near  that 
of  an  uncontrolled  grisette. 

In  addition  to  these  songs,  which  all  too  often  violate  the  dictates 
of  good  taste,  Beranger  composed  poems  entirely  in  the  demesne 
of  powerful  eroticism,  which  are,  to  be  sure,  not  found  in  the 
official  collections.  They  were  first  published  in  1815  under  the 
title:  Songs,  Moral  and  Otherwise;  when  the  edition  was  reprinted 
a  few  years  later,  it  was  confiscated.  Beranger  was  sentenced  to 
pay  50  francs  and  spend  three  months  in  jail  for  insulting  morality 

239 


/ 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FEANCE 
and  religion.  In  1832,  all  these  obscene  songs  introduced  by  Piron's 
Ode  to  Priapus  and  a  few  miscellaneous  pieces  were  published  in 
the  previously  mentioned  Le  Chansonnier  des  filles  d'' amour.  Two 
years  later  a  complete  edition  of  Beranger's  work  was  issued  in 
four  volumes;  a  fifth  volume  containing  all  the  erotic  poetry  was 
printed  secretly,  but  was  confiscated  in  the  same  year.  Thirty  years 
later  these  forty-four  pieces  were  issued  under  the  title,  The  Gay- 
eties  of  Beranger,  and  this  constitutes  the  most  complete  collection. 

If  the  field  of  erotic  literature  was  relatively  sterile  at  this  time, 
the  realm  of  art  was  very  fertile  and  French  erotic  art  continued  / 
to  lead  the  world.  From  the  year  1825  France  was  mistress  of  the! 
market  of  erotic  pictures,  and  it  still  remains  the  chief  producer. 
The  artists  Bouchot,  Poitevin,  Deveria,  Maurin,  Gavami,  Johannot 
and  Monnier  were  in  their  heyday  and  at  their  maximum  produc- 
tivity. Only  Portevin  and  Monnier  had  any  breath  of  greatness 
in  their  work,  especially  the  Diablerie  series  of  the  former  which 
are  to  be  accounted  as  among  the  boldest,  most  fantastic  and  per- 
haps the  most  memorable  productions  in  all  erotic  painting.  Johan- 
not and  Monnier,  on  the  other  hand,  are  merely  the  vicious,  cynical 
depicters  of  lower  middle-class  salacity.  The  same  is  true  of  Gavar- 
ni's  erotic  lithographs.  Bouchot  again  has  something  that  reminds 
us  of  Poitevin. 

What  some  of  the  others  lacked  in  greatness  they  made  up  in 
quantity.  Maurin  and  Deveria  were  virtually  inexhaustible  in  their 
production  of  lithographs  which  they  brought  to  the  market  in 
series.  These  tw^o  and  others  of  their  ilk,  glorified  obscenity  with- 
out manifesting  any  trace  of  a  higher  idea.  Although  they  gave 
themselves  out  for  anti-philistines,  everything  they  produced  lacks  j/ 
any  idealization  of  sensuality.  The  representation  of  the  sexual  • 
act  in  hundreds  of  variations  was  their  chief  theme,  and  only  at 
their  very  best  do  they  show  an  occasional  gracefulness  or  refinement 

240 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUBY 
in  their  tasks.  They  are  the  most  enthusiastic  eulogists  of  the 
mechanics  of  love,  and  they  can  suggest  nothing  more  than  the 
physical  delights  which  masculine  potency  brings  to  the  woman, 
,  and  which  female  wantonness  and  sophistication  afford  the  man. 

In  fine,  it  is  a  glowing  cult  of  the  individual  erotic  charms  of  the 
female  body.  Numerous  gallant  lithographs  that  appeared  publicly 
I  in  the  30's  of  the  last  century  were  obscenely  varied  and  touched 
up  for  those  who  liked  their  eroticism  undiluted.  With  the  spread 
of  photography,  this  flood  reached  its  ebb,  and  a  new  period  of 
activity  began. 

One  of  these  artists  was  also  by  way  of  being  an  author.  Indeed, 
Henry  Monnier  (1799-1875)  was  also  an  actor  of  repute.  When  he 
was  still  a  subordinate  official  in  the  ministry  of  justice,  he  revealed 
a  native  gift  of  observation,  a  sharp  and  inexorable  eye  for  idiosyn- 
crasies, the  weak  and  ridiculous  features  of  his  environment,  which 
he  endeavored  to  perpetuate  with  his  drawing  pencil.  In  1820 
appeared  his  little  booklet.  Administrative  Customs;  and  at  the  same 
time  he  created  the  figure  of  Joseph  Prudhomme,  that  worthy  smug 
bourgeois  who  has  become  as  much  a  figure  in  French  literature 
as  Moliere's  Tartuffe.  Soon  Monnier  was  admitted  to  the  circle 
which  included  Musset,  Paul  de  Koch,  Gautier,  Gavarni,  and  he 
gave  free  reign  to  his  abilities.  His  erotic  compositions  were  de- 
veloped with  swift  strokes  and  were  originally  composed  just  for 
his  friends,  without  any  thought  of  publication.  When  the  erotic 
theatre  was  established  on  the  Rue  de  la  Sante  in  1862  he  con- 
tributed a  small  piece  entitled  The  Strumpet  and  the  Student.  The 
playlet  has  no  action  to  speak  of.  It  is  a  series  of  love  scenes  be- 
tween the  two  characters,  punctuated  by  quarrels  and  reconcilia- 
tions, but  the  charm  of  the  writing  and  the  capricious  wit  are  what 
give  it  power.  Here  is  an  example, 
i  The  student  is  sitting  alone  and  reading  a  letter.  "Tuesday  at 

241 


THE  EMOTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 
noon  I  shall  come  to  you  rather  earlier  than  later.  Love  me  always 
as  I  love  you.  Be  clever  and  understanding  but  not  too  wanton. 
If  you  wish,  we  shall  kick  over  the  traces  a  bit."  (He  speaks:  "It 
is  1 1: 10.  She  will  not  come.")  Reading  again:  "Tuesday  at  noon") 
(To  himself:  "She  surely  won't  be  late.  I  will  arrange  the  seat.") 
11:30.  He  reads  again:  "I  shall  come  rather  earlier  than  later." 
A  knock  is  heard:  "Who  is  there?" 

A  light  voice:  "I." 

The  student  pretends  not  to  recognize:  "Who  is  T?  Is  that  you?" 

"Yes,  of  course,  it's  me." 

He  opens  the  door,  the  grisette  enters  red  as  a  beet.  (Remember, 
it's  six  flights  up) .  "Good  day,  my  little  pup.  How  goes  it?  My  lord, 
you  live  high  up.  I'm  all  out  of  breath.  And  your  housekeeper, 
below — what  a  bitch  she  is!  She  asked  me  again  and  again  whom 
I  wanted.  You  understand?  She  made  me  repeat  it  many  times 
over  in  order  that  I  might  become  worried.  I  despise  these  damned 
female  tricks.  Don't  I  get  a  kiss?  Let  me  remove  my  hat  first." 

The  student,  ready:  "Come  here  my  angel." 

The  entertainment  grows  more  exciting,  passionate,  and  finally 
winds  up  in  groans  and  snorts.  The  grisette  pants:  "Oh,  how  won- 
derful you  love!  Kill  me! ...  oh,  kill  me! " 

Whereupon  a  deep  bass  voice  from  the  adjoining  room  booms 
out  warningly:  "No  murder  in  this  house,  please."  But  this  does 
not  disturb  the  lovers  and  they  continue  their  activities  undisturbed. 

Monnier  has  another  little  work.  The  Lesbians,  which  can  be  y 
compared  to  Crebillon  in  its  supple  narrative  skill.  Two  women 
of  Paris,  young,  handsome,  elegant,  pleasure  seeking,  visit  a  mutual 
friend  in  the  latter's  country  home.  The  two  visitors  who  have 
never  met  before,  are  given  a  bedroom  in  common.  At  first  the  con- 
versation flows  in  quite  conventional  channels.  They  chatter  about 
social  events,  about  their  husbands.  Both  feel  themselves  misunder- 

242 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
stood.  Each  flatters  the  other,  and  makes  pretty  Httle  speeches  to 
the  other.  Their  speech  becomes  freer  and  more  intimate.  They 
draw  closer  to  each  other  in  the  wide  double  bed,  and  gradually 
each  attempts  certain  tender  manipulations  which  the  other  recip- 
rocates. The  talk  becomes  more  ardent  and  more  intense,  and  their 
digitation  more  ecstatic,  until  both  give  themselves  over  to  their 
desires.  The  charm  of  the  work  lies  in  its  manner  of  treatment,  in 
the  witty  and  clever  wantonness  which  never  forgets  the  canons 
of  good  taste. 


CHAPTEM  XVII 

THE  REIGN  OF  THE  PROSTITUTE 


IT  WAS  with  perfect  consummate  planning,  and  cleverness  that 
Louis  Napoleon  was  able  to  maneuver  his  election  to  the  presi- 
dency of  the  French  Republic  in  1 849.  His  term  of  ofRce  was  to  be 
only  four  years  but  already  there  were  a  sufficient  number  of 
signs  to  indicate  that  he  intended  to  remain  in  the  saddle  very  much 
longer.  When  his  efforts  in  this  direction  became  too  obvious  he 
dealt  a  coup  d'etat  and  in  1859  he  dissolved  the  Assembly,  sent 
sixty  of  the  hostile  delegates  into  exile,  and  caused  the  arrest  of 
about  26,000  malcontents.  But  this  brutal  exercise  of  force  did 
not  guarantee  any  sort  of  safety  or  certainty.  There  were  many 
attempts  on  his  life  which  showed  how  great  the  disaffection  of 
the  people  really  was.  From  the  very  start  he  had  numerous  pow- 
erful enemies,  chiefly  the  great  horde  of  Orleanists  who  had  rep- 
resentatives in  commerce,  in  officialdom  and  among  the  bourgeoisie. 
Here  were  such  men  as  Thiers,  Guizot,  Remusat  and  others.  Then 
there  was  the  party  of  legitimists  of  the  Faubourg  St.  Germain, 
descendants  of  the  ancien  regime  with  numerous  connections 
throughout  France.  This  party  possessed  but  few  capable  brains 
and  practically  their  only  weapon  was  gossip  but  this  they  knew 
how  to  use  masterfully.  The  whole  mass  of  scandalous  stories  circu- 
lated at  this  time  concerning  the  emperor  and  his  spouse,  the 
beautiful  Spaniard,  Eugenie,  springs  from  this  source.  And  al- 
though most  of  them  bear  the  stamp  of  falsehood  their  importance 

244 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
must  not  be  underestimated.  They  knew  well  how  to  uncover 
the  nakedness  of  the  emperor  so  skillfully  that  their  fictions  a- 
chieved  the  semblance  of  verity. 

Even  more  than  in  the  gallant  period  the  prostitute  now  ruled.  She 
played  the  first  fiddle  in  life,  literature,  the  theatre  and  the  arts, 
and  Napoleon  himself  bore  the  blame  for  this  state  of  affairs.  The 
coup  d'etat  had  pressed  the  clamp  down  on  the  press.  Any  one  who 
now  wished  to  found  a  new  newspaper  had  to  deposit  a  security 
of  50,000  francs,  which  made  virtually  impossible  the  growth 
of  a  press.  Misdemeanors  of  the  press  were  no  longer  permitted  : 
jury  hearings  but  had  to  be  tried  before  criminal  courts  and  were 
threatened  with  Draconian  penalties.  After  two  warnings  a  news-,^ 
paper  was  suspended  and  after  two  convictions  it  was  abolished. 
Since  the  press  was  gagged  and  prevented  from  discussing  political 
matters,  it  turned  to  realms  less  dangerous:  social  satire  and  scandal, 
financial  operations,  and  journalistic  wit.  How  successful  such 
cultivation  of  new  pastures  was  may  be  judged  from  the  fact 
that  the  circulation  of  the  Constitutionel  jumped  from  3,000  to 
45,00;  and  Villemessant  who  edited  Figaro  after  1854  made  his 
paper  the  favorite  of  the  capital.  What  did  it  matter  that  those 
attacked  and  libelled  in  his  sheet  sought  redress  in  the  courts  and 
that  he  had  to  pay  out  considerable  money  in  fines?  The  growing 
popularity  of  his  paper  with  its  consequent  financial  gain  was 
more  than  enough  to  balance  his  losses. 

But  once  the  tiger  has  licked  blood  he  is  insatiable.  The  public 
naturally  fond  of  gossip  and  saucy  details,  took  delight  in  the 
steaming  ordure  served  up  to  them,  and  found  it  difficult  to  live 
without  such  slop.  In  no  realm  can  gossip  be  as  enjoyable  as  in 
the  sexual,  and  in  this  respect  no  class  of  bourgeoisie  society  offers 
more  material  than  the  half- world.  Their  whole  fife  is  one  chain  of 
scandalous  episodes.  Particularly  did  the  cocottes  of  the  second 

245 


/ 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
empire  offer  considerable  material.  And  what  a  gap  separates  these 
prostitutes  who  peddle  their  flesh  from  the  grisette  under  Louis 
Philippe!  Murger  in  his  La  Boheme  has  represented  them  as  crea- 
tures of  lovely  frivolity  who  do  not  shrink  from  giving  themselves 
as  long  as  they  have  the  illusion  of  love,  however  momentary.  But 
the  cocotte  of  this  time  has  gone  far  beyond  such  considerations. 
When  she  sells  herself  she  uses  her  opportunity  well  and  chooses 
only  the  highest  bidder.  She  is  not  overburdened  with  an  excess 
of  spirit,  nor  is  this  what  the  business  men  and  knights  of  happi- 
ness seek  in  her.  The  only  thing  of  value  is  her  capacity  to  purvey 
sexual  satisfaction. 

Many  of  these  creatures  boasted  a  rare  beauty  but  they  did  not 
always  exercise  the  greatest  fascination.  Thus  Cora  Pearl,  one  of 
the  most  famous  denizens  of  the  half- world,  was  actually  repulsive, 
what  with  her  coarse  features,  coachman's  voice  and  vulgar  man- 
ners. Yet  she  had  twelve  horses  in  her  stall,  charged  10,000  francs 
for  a  night  and,  it  is  said,  received  from  a  grand  duke  the  gift  of 
a  massive  silver  bidet  filled  with  jewels  and  gold  pieces.  Exploita- 
tion of  their  lovers  and  senseless  squandering  of  money  were  the 
occupations  with  which  these  hussies  busied  themselves  and  in- 
stead of  repelling  men,  this  unconcealed  pursuit  of  gain  drew 
them  on.  It  was  a  source  of  popularity  to  be  seen  with  a  strumpet 
and  to  squander  one's  money  upon  her.  The  Duke  of  Grammont- 
Caderousse,  wasted  money  and  health  until  he  died  of  tuberculosis. 
Arthur  de  Lauriston  lost  everything,  and  one  day  ran  off  to  Al- 
giers where  he  entered  the  army.  Prince  Achille  Murat  shot  him- 
self when  he  was  left  penniless.  Moreover,  it  was  not  only  the 
Parisians  but  also  foreigners  who  fell  into  the  nets  of  these  modem 
hetaerae,  for  Paris  had  gradually  established  itself  as  the  Babylon 
of  the  Seine.  Visitors  from  every  land  came  here  to  find  pleasure 
at  all  costs,  and  not  infrequently  lost  their  shirts  in  the  process.  In 

246 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
two  or  three  years  Khalil  Bey  ran  through  1 5  millions  and  returned 
home  impoverished.  The  Princes  Narischkin,  Paul  Demidoff,  and 
Lord  Hamilton  threw  money  away  with  open  hands  though  they 
did  not  exactly  employ  the  method  of  their  contemporary,  the  mys- 
terious Prince  Possos,  who  amused  himself  by  dropping  gold  pieces 
upon  the  heads  of  the  passersby  from  the  balcony  of  the  Maison  Doree. 

Although  merely  tolerated  by  the  state  at  first,  the  prostitute  ^ 
soon  became  recognized  by  society.  It  was  no  longer  necessary 
for  them  to  crawl  in  the  darkest  corners,  like  pariahs.  They  could 
now  ply  their  seductive  occupations  in  full  publicity,  rob  the  man  / 
from  his  consort,  and  through  him  inoculate  his  family  with  the 
vice.  Soon  the  most  honorable  woman  assumed  the  manners  of  the 
demi-mondaine  and  sought  to  emulate  her  fallen  sister's  immorality. 
It  came  to  the  pass  where  the  boundaries  became  indistinguishable 
and  one  could  no  longer  tell  cocotte  from  honorable  woman. 

The  great  world  occupied  itself  only  with  her.  Art  and  litera- 
ture brought  her  undisguised  praise  and  the  theatre  lay  at  her  feet. 
She  dominated  everything,  no  matter  whether  an  artist  drew  a 
mythological  divinity;  a  Phryne,  a  Leda  with  the  Swan,  or  what- 
ever other  mythological  name  he  immortalized  upon  the  canvas,  it  is 
always  the  sensuality  incorporated  in  the  cocotte  that  served  to 
inspire  him.  Journalism  too,  stood  in  the  service  of  the  demi-monde.  ^J 
For  an  hour  of  love  the  fortunate  scribbler  would  sing  the  praises 
of  his  love  in  his  sheet;  and  for  similar  favors  the  hopeless  mediocre 
creatures  of  the  stage  could  expect  glowing  dramatic  panegyrics 
upon  their  deathless  art.  If  this  method  failed  these  ladies  would 
buy  favorable  critical  notices  by  counting  out  good  gold.  Even 
the  famous  critic  Jules  Janin  never  showed  any  aversion  to  a  cer- 
tain sort  of  erotic  handclasp,  and  people  knew  that  after  every 
premiere  he  could  enter  upon  his  books  between  six  and  eight 
thousand  francs  from  unspecified  sources. 

247 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FBANCE 
The  prostitute  made  her  triumphal  entry  into  literature  when 
the  younger  Dumas  brought  upon  the  stage  in  his  Lady  of  the 
Cajnelias,  a  prostitute  dripping  with  sentimentality.  Through  five 
long  acts  says  Vieil-Castel  in  his  notebook,  this  woman  hawks  out 
before  an  educated  public  all  the  disgusting  details  of  her  prosti- 
tuted life.  Nothing  is  missing  in  the  representation,  and  scenes  are 
borrowed  from  the  most  corrupt  places.  xA.nd  this  wench  with  camelias 
is  supposed  to  represent  true  love,  she  who  accepts  alternately  the 
embraces  of  customers  and  the  kisses  of  her  heart's  own  friend, 
who  permits  the  rich  one  to  pay  in  order  to  support  the  poor  one. 
Nor  do  the  other  details  of  her  sordid  existence  improve  the  picture 
at  all,  culminating  in  the  apologia  for  her  life,  at  her  grave  where 
it  is  said:  "Much  will  be  forgiven  her  for  she  has  loved  much." 
Although  this  writer  designated  the  exaltation  of  the  strumpet 
as  the  shame  of  his  age,  this  drama  corresponded  so  well  with  the 
instincts  of  the  populace  that  in  a  short  while  it  became  one  of 
the  most  popular  pieces  of  the  Parisian  theatre,  whence  it  made 
its  way  throughout  France.  In  addition,  it  also  created  the  t)^pe 
which  hereafter  was  to  be  quite  at  home  on  the  stage.  Soon  there 
were  many  models  and  copies  of  this.  Barriere's  Girl  of  Marble 
appeared  a  year  later;  and  Augier  wrote  The  Marriage  of  Olympia 
in  1855  and  Poor  Lionesses  in  1859.  The  rudest  and  crudest  sort 
of  realism  dominated  the  theatre  and  the  novel  and  amounted  to 
nothing  more  than  a  servile  copying  of  the  dirtiest  patches  of  life. 
In  both  fiction  and  drama  the  period  revelled  in  the  depiction  of 
filthy  scenes  and  in  the  eulogy  of  vice. 

When  prostitutes  realized  that  they  occupied  the  chief  interests 
of  even  serious  writers,  they  themselves  came  forward  as  authoresses 
and  sought  to  depict  their  own  experiences.  One  of  the  most 
whorish  of  them  created  a  tremendous  stir  with  her  memoirs  which 
underwent  one  edition  after  another.  This  was  Marguerite  Badel, 

248 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
called  Rigolboche,  who  was  too  unlettered  to  be  able  to  write 
even  one  sensible  sentence.  Hence  her  memoirs  were  really  com- 
posed by  two  unscupulous  writers,  Blum  and  Huart.  The  same 
circumstances  were  true  of  the  memoirs  of  Celeste  Vainard,  called 
Mogador,  who  could  neither  read  nor  write  but  none  the  less  de- 
manded the  spotlight  of  literature.  People  knew  all  this,  knew  the 
utter  ignorance  of  this  cocotte,  but  were  somehow  crazy  about 
her  lewd  confessions.  Indeed,  her  lurid  past  did  not  prevent  her 
from  climbing  up  the  social  ladder  for  she  later  married  Count 
Lionel  de  Moreton  Chabrillan.  Similar  marriages  into  the  nobility 
were  effected  by  other  notorious  whores  like  Rosalie  Leon,  Mar- 
guerite Bellanger,  another  known  as  Madonna,  and  Paiva  who 
captured  respectively  Prince  Peter  Wittgenstein,  Lord  Coulback, 
Prince  Soltikoff  and  Count  Henckel  von  Donnersmarck.  Since 
such  incredible  success  attended  these  daughters  of  joy,  it  is  no 
wonder  that  women  of  society  began  to  copy  the  loose  allurements 
of  their  weaker  sisters  in  order  to  try  for  similar  prizes.  Boehn 
gives  a  number  of  names,  for  example,  that  of  the  lovely  Countess 
Castiglione  who  is  said  to  have  received  for  one  night  from  Lord 
Hertford  the  sum  of  one  million  francs.  In  Dieppe  during  1854, 
the  Marquise  de  Belboeuf  and  the  Countess  Gouy  competed  with 
the  cocottes  in  their  scandalous  dancing  and  daring  clothes.  In 
Paris  the  ladies  looked  to  the  stars  of  the  operettas,  Lise  Tautain, 
Hortense  Schneider,  Zulma  Bouffar,  Blanch  d'Antigny  and  copied 
their  clothing  and  gestures,  and  made  their  own  the  repertoire  of 
a  Tlieresia, 

A  most  powerful  and  masterful  delineation  of  the  demoralizing 
influence  of  the  prostitute  and  the  poisoning  of  public  and  private 
life  through  her  was  given  by  Emile  Zola  in  his  Nana;  this  effort 
was  abetted  by  the  drama  of  Augier,  Injection^  and  by  Sardou's 
The  Family  Benoiton.  The  only  goal  of  the  cocotte  is  money  and 

249 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
her  greed  is  nourished  in  the  pursuit  of  unscrupulous  transactions. 
Only  money  offers  the  key  to  power  and  happiness,  and  hence 
everyone  pursues  it.  France  swam  in  gold  and  this  profusion  de- 
veloped a  fever  of  speculation.  Everyone  desired  to  multiply  his 
possessions  quickly  and  without  effort.  The  newly  created  stock 
banks,  after  the  model  of  the  brothers  Pereire  which  was  founded 
for  this  purpose  in  order  to  finance  great  enterprises  through 
accumulation  of  small  holdings,  led  to  risky  enterprises.  Commerce 
and  business  expanded  and  the  income  of  the  middle  classes  sky- 
rocketed. Napoleon  understood  very  well  how  to  use  good  sugges- 
tions for  the  gain  of  France  and  particularly  of  Paris.  In  1855  there 
took  place  in  Paris  a  world  fair  after  the  model  of  the  one  in 
England  which  brought  over  five  million  visitors  to  the  French 
metropolis.  This  influx  naturally  purveyed  a  very  numerous  and 
elaborate  clientele  for  prostitutes.  The  world  exposition  of  1867 
went  it  much  better  with  fourteen  million  visitors  who  came  not 
only  for  business  but  also,  in  good  part,  for  pleasure.  The  devotees 
of  Cimmerian  love  thus  had  their  hands  full,  and  their  purses  too, 
for  these  bulged  with  gold.  The  prostitutes  swarmed  in  all  streets 
and  places  of  amusement.  In  full  consciousness  of  their  importance 
they  pressed  ever  further  into  the  foreground. 

Soon  this  rottenness,  this  disintegrative  process  of  society  found 
its  analyzers  and  depictors.  But  an  interesting  contradiction  is  to 
be  observed  at  this  point.  While  the  cult  of  the  prostitute  was  being 
celebrated  as  never  before,  the  artists  who  merely  copied  nature 
saw  themselves  continually  exposed  to  the  chicaneries  of  police  and 
authorities.  Flaubert,  Edmond  de  Goncourt,  Zola,  Maupassant, 
and  others,  had  to  practise  the  most  artful  wiles  in  order  to  avoid 
being  all  too  forcibly  reminded  of  the  existence  of  a  harsh  censor- 
ship. That  was  thoroughly  logical.  When  an  artist  represents  the 
morals  of  his  time  in  his  serious  work,  he  should  sit  in  judgment 

250 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUKY 
upon  such  conditions.  Judges  and  other  officials  who  had  permitted 
themselves  to  be  carried  along  by  the  stream  of  foulness  and  cor- 
ruption saw  themselves  represented  in  their  true  and  quite  un- 
flattering light  in  these  writings.  In  these  works  those  who  should 
have  been  guardians  of  morality  saw  themselves  accused.  Accord- 
ingly the  personal  animosities  of  these  outraged  officials  found 
vent  in  the  imposition  of  indiscriminate  punishments  upon  serious 
writers.  On  the  other  hand,  pornography,  the  outright  panegyric 
of  vice  and  the  real  herald  of  prostitution  against  which  the  real 
opposition  of  justice  should  have  been  directed,  found  wide  dis- 
tribution and  flowered  in  gallic  profusion. 

Venality — wherever  the  eye  fell.  Besides  the  actual  sale  and 
purchase  of  flesh,  there  was  the  degradation  of  spirit  and  attitude. 
Bribery  triumphed  over  justice  which  never  let  her  left  hand  know 
what  her  right  hand  was  doing;  and  placed  itself  squarely  on  the 
side  of  the  large  capital  that  was  defending  these  foul-smelling 
transactions  with  brutal  cynicism.  The  press  influenced  public 
opinion  in  favor  of  those  who  showed  themselves  most  willing  to 
pay.  For  the  journalists  it  was  a  seductive  and  profitable  business 
to  make  themselves  the  unscrupulous  organ  of  speculation  on  the 
Exchange.  Most  of  the  greatest  Parisian  newspapers  were  the  pos- 
session of  the  speculators  who  set  the  tone,  and  didn't  hesitate  a 
moment  to  expend  huge  sums  when  they  saw  the  possibility  of 
realizing  their  aims.  The  newspapers  merely  served  to  draw  the 
public  into  the  swindling  business  of  the  publishers  or  the  bankers 
who  stood  behind  them.  That  thousands  of  well-meaning  readers 
had  been  brought  to  beggardom  by  their  foolish  trusts  in  the 
honesty  of  the  press,  meant  nothing  to  the  latter. 

Similarly  the  jurists  were  accused  of  venality  and  other  offi- 
cials as  well.  Napoleon  himself  and  his  family  were  accused  of 
being  purchasable  for  a  sufficient  price,  a  charge  surely  untrue  in 

251 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FKANCE 
the  case  of  Napoleon  himself.  But  this  charge  was  certainly  true 
of  his  stepson,  the  Duke  de  Momy,  the  first  cavalier  of  his  time. 
A  certain  voracious  swindler,  the  banker  Jecker,  had  lent  one  and 
a  half  millions  to  Mexico  and  wanted  sixty-five  millions  in  return. 
To  help  this  swindler  realize  his  usurious  demands,  Morny  was 
won  over  to  advise  Napoleon  to  go  in  for  the  disastrous  Mexican 
expedition,  which  cost  Maximilian  and  his  followers  their  lives, 
and  Napoleon  a  goodly  share  of  his  imperial  splendor.  This  he 
sought  to  counteract  through  a  renewed  call  to  arms  against  Ger- 
many. Thus  indirectly,  a  swindler  was  the  real  cause  of  Napoleon's 
downfall. 


^96^  ^^X^  e>L^  eSjM  C^^t^  ^^^ 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

MASTERS  OF  EROTIC  LITERATURE 


THE  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  is  more  fruitful  than 
the  first  regarding  the  composition  of  erotica.  It  is  as  though 
the  erotic  imagination  had  exhausted  itself  in  the  period  of  the 
Enlightenment  and  the  Revolution,  and  required  a  long  breathing 
space  to  recruit  its  constitution;  or  to  vary  the  metaphor,  the  much- 
worked  field  had  to  lie  fallow  for  almost  half  a  century,  or  be  only 
partially  and  lightly  cultivated,  so  that  in  the  second  half  of  the 
century  energetic  and  ambitious  cultivators  might  again  reap 
plenteous  harvest  from  it.  There  were  a  very  considerable  number 
of  writers  and  only  the  most  important  will  be  considered.  We 
will  first  consider  the  Symbolist  novelists  D'Aurevilly  and  Huys- 
mans.  After  that  we  shall  cast  a  glance  at  Musset,  Gautier,  Stendhal 
and  Hugo.  We  shall  then  tarry  a  moment  with  Flaubert  and  his 
school,  Maupassant  and  Zola.  And  the  chapter  will  close  with  a 
statement  concerning  the  symbolist  poets,  Verlaine  and  Baudelaire. 
The  Diaboliques  of  Barbey  d'Aurevilly  (1874)  still  remains 
one  of  the  masterpieces  of  modern  French  literature,  but  it  is  only 
known  in  castrated  editions.  At  the  time  of  its  appearance  it  aroused 
great  interest  and  opposition.  Aurevilly  is  a  very  remarkable  writer, 
one  of  the  most  powerful  representatives  of  late  French  roman- 
ticism. His  work  is  characterized  by  dazzling  wit,  psychological 
observation,  a  wonderful  flow  of  talk,  and  a  panurgic  joy  in  the 
coarsely  physical,  erotically  mysterious  and  perverse.  In  these 

253 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FMANCE 
stories  he  let  himself  go  all  the  way.  The  six  tales  were  so  open 
and  unvarnished  that  they  could  not  be  distributed,  but  were 
immediately  confiscated  because  of  immorality  and  blasphemy. 
When  Aurevilly  was  taken  to  task,  he  naturally  declared  that  he 
had  not  wished  to  profit  by  the  ribaldry  of  his  readers,  but  that  he 
had  on  the  contrary,  desired  to  exert  a  moral  effect.  He  had  de- 
sired to  lash  vice,  he  asserted,  and  had  therefore,  been  compelled 
to  remain  true  to  life.  His  story  was  believed,  but  the  remaining 
480  copies  of  his  work  were  none  the  less  confiscated,  with  his 
approval. 

It  is  difficult  to  transmit  the  flavor  of  these  devilish  stories  which 
are  fiendish  in  their  cruelty,  their  horrible  ingenuity,  in  their 
overtones  of  the  demonic  world  which  swathes  about  us,  and  of 
which  we  hear  echoes  in  the  ecstasies  of  sex.  When  the  senses  are  a- 
fire  with  sex,  we  are  somehow  brought  near  to  the  elemental  flames 
of  the  universe,  blazing  murkily  in  the  primeval  chaos  and  flaring 
with  undiminished  heat  and  unmitigated  destructiveness  beneath 
the  thin  layer  of  cosmic,  orderly  coolness.  It  is  this  weird  apprehen- 
sion of  eternal  depths  and  flames  in  eternity,  and  in  its  tiny  cinders, 
which  are  the  children  of  men,  that  Aurevilly  scores  his  greatest 
victories.  Who  can  ever  forget  that  monstrous  story  of  that 
beautiful  woman  of  inextinguishable  lusts,  who  burns  perpetually 
with  the  diabolical  flame?  She  is  the  wife  of  a  general  and  ac- 
companies him  upon  his  military  expeditions  and  while  battles 
are  being  fought  or  campaigns  planned,  she  hurls  one  man  after 
another  upon  her  flame.  One  night  she  is  apprehended  in  an  assigna- 
tion with  an  old  lover  who  has  come  with  a  formal  message  but 
has  remained  for  an  altogether  different  business.  The  general 
berates  his  spouse  for  her  wantonness,  and  hints  that  he  has  heard 
rumors  of  her  incessant  and  promiscuous  venereal  practices.  Stung 
to  fury,  she  informs  him  that  the  child  she  had  born  him  and  which 

254 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
had  but  recently  met  its  death,  even  that  was  not  the  general's,  but 
the  fruit  of  her  lust  with  the  lover  just  departed.  She  informs  him 
too  that  when  the  child  had  died  she  had  cut  out  its  heart  and  kept 
it  in  a  beautiful  casket  as  a  perpetual  memento.  In  demoniac  rage, 
she  now  rushes  to  this  casket  and  hurls  her  child's  heart  at  the 
general,  the  supposed  father.  What  a  frightful  scene!  Two  partially 
demented  figures,  a  woman  charred  by  many  lusts  and  a  man 
blinded  by  elemental  furies,  hurling  at  each  other  the  heart  of  a 
child!  But  the  end  is  even  more  demoniac.  The  crazed  general  in 
an  orgy  of  berserker  rage  beats  his  wife  down  with  his  feet,  and 
despite  her  terrible  shrieks,  melts  wax  upon  her,  burning  her  to 
death.  Thus  the  hellish  fire  in  her  is  quenched  forever. 

In  this  connection  we  should  also  mention  Joris  Karl  Huysmans. 
In  his  novel  Ld-bas  (Down  There)  he  scores  the  emotional  poverty 
of  our  time  and  his  imagination  looks  hungrily  at  the  religious  and 
Satanic  ecstasies  of  the  middle  ages.  He  creates  Gilles  de  Rais,  a 
problematic  nature  who  dissatisfied  with  the  even  monotony 
of  daily  life,  brings  emotional  content  into  his  life  with  murder 
and  sexual  excesses.  There  are  many  crass  scenes  in  this  novel 
and  Huysmans  gives  a  stark  characterization  of  his  hero  persecuted 
by  erotic  spectres,  obsessed  by  satyriasis.  "It  appeared  as  though 
nature  grew  sick  in  his  presence  and  that  his  mere  proximity 
corrupted  her.  For  the  first  time  he  understood  the  uncleanness  of 
the  immoble  existence  of  forests,  and  discovered  the  priapic  festi- 
vals in  the  life  of  deep  dark  woods.  Here  the  tree  appeared  to  him 
as  a  living  being,  head  down  dug  into  the  earth  with  tufts  of  its 
roots,  feet  on  high,  straddled  and  branched  out  onto  ever  new 
thighs,  which  are  continually  opening  up  and  getting  smaller  the 
further  away  they  are  from  the  stem.  Now  it  appears  that  another 
bough  is  rammed  in  between  these  legs  in  an  immoble  orgiastic 
writhing  which  is  transmitted  from  branch  to  branch  until  the 

255 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FMANCE 
very  top.  There  the  shaft  seems  to  be  a  phallus  which  has  become 
erect  and  which  disappears  into  a  skirt  of  foliage;  or  on  the  contrary 
shoots  out  from  a  green  coat  into  the  over-stuffed  abdomen  of  the 
earth.  Images  confuse  him.  In  the  pale  and  smooth  bark  of  the 
long-stemmed  beech  trees,  he  saw  again  the  skin  of  boys,  alit  with 
their  parchment-like  whiteness.  In  the  black  and  grooved  barks  of 
the  old  oaks  he  discerned  the  deeply  fissured  elephantine  skin  of 
beggars.  At  the  knots  where  the  branch  forked  out,  little  openings 
yawned  in  which  the  bark  rolled  up  in  ovals,  these  apertures  re- 
minded him  of  filthy  rectums  or  the  small  gaping  genitals  of  female 
animals.  Everywhere  obscene  forms  arose  out  of  the  earth  and 
shot  up  madly  toward  the  heavenly  vault.  That  too  became  satanic. 
Clouds  swell  to  huge  breasts,  split  into  buttocks,  swell  into  immense 
penes,  which  disseminate  their  contents  in  wide  showers  of  milky 
seeds.  These  all  correspond  to  the  sultry  revelries  of  the  forest, 
where  nothing  remains  but  the  images  of  giant  or  branched  thighs, 
the  feminine  deltas,  the  form  of  the  great  V,  sodomite  mouths, 
gaping  wounds,  moist  excretory  orifices." 

And  here  is  a  later  excerpt:  "By  and  large,  everything  here 
below,  runs  into  the  act  which  you  refuse.  The  heart  which  has  the 
reputation  of  being  the  most  noble  constituent  of  man,  has  the 
same  form  as  the  penis  which  is  supposed  to  be  a  lower  organ.  And 
it  is  extremely  symbolic,  for  all  love  of  the  heart  culminates  in  that 
organ  which  resembles  it.  When  the  human  imagination  seeks  to 
vitalize  artificial  creatures,  it  has  to  take  models  from  the  motions 
of  living  creatures  in  the  act  of  procreation.  Look  at  machines, 
at  the  play  of  pistons  in  cylinders;  what  are  these  but  steel  Romeos 
in  cast-iron  Juliettes,  The  varieties  of  human  expression  are  in  no 
wise  different  from  the  motions  of  our  machines.  This  is  a  law 
which  one  must  do  homage  to,  if  one  is  to  be  neither  impotent  nor 
holy." 

256 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
What  a  feeling  for  nature  and  a  living  of  oneself  into  her  moods! 
What  a  contiguity  with,  and  strange  comprehension  of,  apparently 
inorganic  matter!  And  what  philosophical  absorption  in  the  vague 
mysteries  of  sexual  impulses  and  instincts  even  in  the  domain  of 
the  non-living.  It  needs  only  a  development  of  these  thoughts  to 
make  an  eroticon  par  excellence,  but  Huysmans'  work  was  strictly 
limited  for  he  was  a  psychopathic  case,  with  the  peculiar  visions 
and  obsessions  characteristic  of  such  types. 

ALFRED  DE  MUSSET 

We  have  already  remarked  about  Alfred  de  Musset's  (1810-1856) 
erotic  story,  Gamiani,  to  the  effect  that  while  in  the  company  of 
a  number  of  Bohemians,  the  conversation  turned  to  the  inferiority 
of  current  erotic  literature.  It  was  maintained  that  no  one  could 
write  that  sort  of  work  without  using  obscenities  in  profuse  quanti- 
ties. Musset  disputed  this  and  offered  to  prove  the  contrary.  Three 
days  later  he  read  his  Gamiani  before  his  friends,  a  book  which 
describes  everything  without  employing  a  single  indecent  word. 
A  truer  explanation  of  the  genesis  of  this  work  holds  it  to  be  a 
pamphlet  directed  against  Musset's  erstwhile  mistress,  George  Sand. 
In  1834  the  lovers  had  undertaken  a  trip  to  Venice,  where  poor 
Musset  became  sick  with  brain  fever.  During  his  illness  Sand  is 
said  to  have  been  unfaithful  to  him  with  a  certain  Italian,  for  which 
reason  Musset  left  her.  The  abandoned  woman  now  began  to  circu- 
late the  report  that  he  was  impotent.  To  revenge  this,  Musset 
represented  Sand  as  Gamiani,  the  tribadist.  This  version  of  the 
story  is  also  found  in  the  Memoirs  of  a  Singer.  But  the  first  one  is 
much  more  likely  to  be  true  since  the  first  edition  of  Ga?mani  bears 
the  date  1833,  one  year  before  the  journey  to  Venice.  Not  only  is 
there  a  dispute  about  the  real  motive  for  the  writing  of  this  novel, 

257 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
but  a  number  of  distinguished  authorities  have  expressed  the  doubt 
that  Musset  was  the  author  of  the  book,  which  is  absurd.  The 
work  exhibits  all  the  peculiarities  of  Musset's  style.  Secondly,  he 
himself  showed  it  off  to  a  number  of  his  friends,  and  even  provided 
lascivious  drawings  for  it.  And  finally,  as  long  as  he  lived  the  book 
was  attributed  to  him,  and  he  never  once  denied  this  attribution. 
Through  an  indiscretion  the  manuscript  fell  into  the  hands  of  a 
publisher  at  Brussels  who  issued  it  with  colored  lithographs.  Today 
there  are  countless  translations  and  reprints  of  the  work,  one  of 
the  high  spots  of  French  pornographic  literature. 

Here  is  a  brief  summary  of  the  plot.  At  a  house  ball  Baron  Alcide, 
becoming  suspicious  of  Gamiani,  the  mistress  of  the  house,  dis- 
covers that  she  is  a  lesbian.  He  determines  to  eavesdrop  on  her,  and 
hides  himself  in  an  alcove  behind  some  clothes.  Presently  Gamiani 
enters  with  Fanny,  a  young  girl  of  seventeen.  The  latter  doesn't 
know  how  to  get  home  in  the  pouring  rain  since  no  coach  is  in 
sight.  Hence  she  accepts  Gamiani's  hospitality  for  the  night.  The 
latter  overcomes  Fanny's  opposition  with  flattery  and  tenderness, 
and  proceeds  to  undress  her  hastily.  When  both  are  completely 
undressed  Gamiani  can  no  longer  restrain  her  lust.  Her  tribadic 
desires  break  through.  Fanny  is  at  first  frightened,  but  at  length 
in  her  sensual  excitement  surrenders  to  the  fierce  manipulations 
of  her  hostess.  Alcide,  who  has  observed  everything  from  his  con- 
cealment now  springs  out  and  hurls  himself  on  Fanny,  despite 
the  attack  of  Gamiani.  After  he  has  had  his  fill,  they  are  reconciled 
amid  a  lot  of  erotic  playing.  Now  Gamiani  narrates  how  she  has 
come  by  her  abnormal  tendencies.  As  a  girl  she  had  been  placed 
in  a  nunnery  by  her  aunt.  Once,  after  a  frightful  flagellation,  all 
the  monks  had  taken  their  desire  of  her;  and  since  that  time  she 
has  had  an  antipathy  to  men.  Then  the  others  tell  the  stories  of 
their  earliest  love  adventures,  which  motivate  the  most  erotic  scenes 

258 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
of  normal  love  and  abnormal  perversions.  Finally,  Gamiani  mixes 
a  poisonous  love  potion  for  herself  and  Fanny,  and  ends  their  lives 
in  a  mad  embrace  before  Alcide  can  come  to  their  help. 

THEOPHILE  GAUTIER 

In  his  Mile,  de  Maiipi?i,  Gautier  ( 1 8 1 1 - 1 87 2 )  sought  to  ape  Gamiani. 
Maupin  is  too  well-known  to  require  any  description  here.  Gautier's 
little  novel.  This  One  and  That,  aroused  so  much  opposition  among 
the  strait-laced,  with  its  open-hearted  representation  of  erotic 
scenes,  that  it  was  confiscated.  Furthermore,  Gautier  was  recog- 
nized as  the  author  of  a  primitively  powerful  eroticon  in  the  form 
of  a  travel  diary  which  he  wrote  to  a  woman  friend  in  Paris,  a 
certain  Madame  Sabatier  to  whom  Baudelaire  also  dedicated  a  cycle 
of  his  poems.  Madame  Sabatier,  who  lived  in  the  Rue  Frochot, 
received  only  artists,  and  every  Saturday  most  of  her  friends  would 
foregather  at  dinner.  Gautier,  Flaubert,  Baudelaire  and  Henry  Mon- 
nier  were  her  regular  guests.  She  would  have  none  of  gallantries 
and  desired  that  the  most  abstract  and  serious  subjects  be  discussed 
in  her  company.  For  this  reason  they  gave  her  the  nickname  of 
president  which  she  wore  with  all  possible  grace  and  inimitable 
charm.  Gautier  called  his  travel  diary:  Lettre  a  la  Fresidente. 

Gautier's  son-in-law  who  edited  this  Lettre  says  in  his  foreword, 
"with  regard  to  the  tone  of  the  letter  which  I  confess  I  have 
endeavored  to  tone  down,  it  must  be  remembered  that  its  author 
was  twenty-four  years  old  when  he  wrote  it;  that  it  was  directed 
to  a  friend  who  belonged  to  the  same  romantic  storm  and  stress 
period  with  himself;  and  that  he  was  accustomed  to  the  ribald 
tone  of  the  atelier.  Furthermore,  the  letter  was  not  written  for 
publication,  which  it  seems  almost  superfluous  to  point  out.  Theo- 
phile  Gautier  wrote  two  or  three  letters  in  his  life,  more  to  gain 

259 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
practice  in  Rabelaisian  coarseness  that  was  native  to  him,  and 
in  the  use  of  forbidden  words,  than  out  of  base  motives  which 
might  perhaps  be  suspected  by  some.  Gautier  sought  to  master  the 
language  of  the  older  Gallic  narrators  and  dreamed  of  being  able 
to  use  it  with  lavish  eloquence.  One  of  the  letters  I  have  referred 
to,  a  record  of  a  trip  to  Italy,  is  entirely  in  the  style  of  Rabelais,  and 
the  artists  of  our  circle  who  have  read  it,  speak  with  great  enthus- 
iasm about  it."  These  and  other  works  of  his  which  because  of  their 
erotic  content  could  not  be  published  in  official  collections,  were 
issued  separately  in  a  very  limited  edition. 

STENDHAL  and  VICTOR  HUGO 

Stendhal-beyle  was  also  an  erotic  writer.  There  are  a  number  of 
grounds  leading  us  to  conclude  that  he  did  engage  in  such  activity 
but  none  is  quite  conclusive.  When  he  was  but  twelve  years  old 
he  read  erotic  works,  particularly  Nerciat's  Felicia,  and  Dangerous 
Liaisons.  He  tells  all  this  in  his  Vie  de  Brulard.  "I  found  ways  and 
means  to  get  into  my  father's  library  where  there  was  a  precious 
collection  of  Elzevir  editions,  but  alas!  I  understood  no  Latin.  I 
tried  to  read  a  few  articles  in  the  Encyclopedia  but  what  was  that 
after  the  Felicia  and  the  New  Heloise^  It  is  also  known  that  his 
executor,  Romain  Coulomb,  in  his  excessive  discretion,  burnt  282 
passionate  letters  addressed  to  him  by  the  Countess  Clementine 
Curial,  and  very  likely  of  other  ladies  as  well.  In  the  library  at 
Grenoble  there  is  a  manuscript  designated  by  number  5896  which 
contains  an  unfinished  and  untitled  erotic  tale  dated  1 80 1 .  He  was 
famous  and  notorious  as  well  as  a  teller  of  anecdotes.  When  he  was 
in  congenial  company  he  would  gladly  recount  little  intimate  things. 
One  constantly  feared  that  at  any  instant  he  might  tumble  into 
the  steaming  ordure  of  foulness,  but  suddenly  he  would  give  his 

260 


BOOK.  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
anecdote  the  most  innocuous  turn  and  everything  would  be  for  the 
best.  One  of  these  httle  stories  has  been  preserved  in  a  collection 
by  various  authors  edited  by  Balzac  as  Gloomy  Stories. 

Victor  Hugo  has  occasionally  been  regarded  as  the  author  of  an 
obscene  work,  The  Romance  of  Violet.  Herein  is  related  the  story 
of  a  fifteen  year  old  servant  girl  who  flees  to  an  artist  to  escape 
the  snares  of  her  master.  She  first  serves  the  artist  as  model  and 
later  as  mistress.  A  young  countess  casts  her  eye  upon  the  pretty 
miss  and  initiates  her  into  a  lesbic  cult;  after  which  the  artist  and 
the  two  lesbians  form  an  erotic  trio.  Violet  goes  on  the  stage  where 
she  develops  her  capacities  and  achievements.  Towards  the  end, 
other  tribadic  scenes  are  enacted.  This  is  obviously  an  eroticon 
like  hundreds  of  others,  one  written  without  special  talent.  There 
certainly  is  not  a  trace  of  Victor  Hugo's  style.  The  intense  delight 
depicted  in  the  book  of  sapphic  pleasures,  makes  one  suspect  that 
a  woman  was  the  author.  Several  women  have  been  suspected;  e.g., 
Countess  Maurice  de  Boissiron  or  a  Madame  Querouen  de  Boussiron, 
but  at  this  late  day  it  is  impossible  to  tell  with  certainty  who  the 
unknown  author  was.  But  that  Victor  Hugo  had  no  hand  in  this 
tale  is  fairly  certain.  The  attribution  to  him  was  certainly  a  shrewd 
trick  by  some  publisher. 

FLAUBERT,  MAUPASSANT,  ZOLA 

Flaubert  the  stylist,  acrobat,  and  the  esthetic  realist  certainly  did 
not  put  blinkers  on  to  escape  erotic  problems.  His  Madame  Bovary 
and  The  Holy  Anthony  of  Padua  are  sufficient  proof  of  his  deep 
interest  in  this  field.  The  former  is  the  story  of  an  eccentric  woman 
who  is  chained  to  a  good  but  dull  husband.  She  neglects  her  house- 
hold, gallivants  about  with  lovers,  sinks  ever  more  deeply  and 
finally  poisons  herself.  Flaubert  was  indicted  for  this  novel,  but 

261 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
was  released  because  the  court  recognized  that  he  had  remained 
utterly  moral  in  all  his  descriptions.. 

He  was  always  truthful  concerning  others,  and  concerning  him- 
self as  well.  His  notebook  demonstrates  this  and  shows  a  number 
of  fairly  strong  erotic  passages.  This  diary  of  Flaubert's  was  pub- 
lished in  Germany  during  191 1  and  despite  the  fact  that  the  editor, 
Wilhelm  Herzog,  weakened  several  passages  and  omitted  a  num- 
ber of  others,  both  he  and  his  publisher  were  indicted  for  dissemi- 
nating immoral  literature  and  fined  fifty  marks  each.  At  the  Sunday 
meetings  of  Flaubert,  Zola,  Daudet  and  Turgenieff  there  was  little 
attempt  at  formality.  The  tone  that  reigned  was  that  of  Rabelais 
if  not  that  of  Villon,  and  spades  were  called  by  name. 

Flaubert's  friends  revelled  in  their  literary  productions,  in  the 
depiction  of  fairly  free  situations.  Maupassant  particularly  showed 
himself  to  be  an  idealizing  realist  in  his  works.  As  critical  spirit 
and  cool  observer  of  human  weaknesses  he  naturally  does  not  pass 
by  the  differentiated  phenomena  of  sexual  life.  Indeed  many  of 
his  works  are  saturated  with  sex  and  built  up  on  the  most  intimate 
relationships  of  both  sexes.  A  few  examples  will  establish  the  fact 
that  the  experience  of  sex  is  primary  for  many  if  not  most  of  his 
work.  Who  does  not  know  the  following  stories?  The  comic  efforts 
of  the  old  peasant  woman  to  drive  away  the  gallant  whom  she  has 
been  supporting  and  whom  she  has  given  her  tiny  estate,  when 
she  discovers  that  he  has  been  unfaithful  to  her.  The  young  abbe 
who  has  been  sent  to  chaperon  three  boys  has  to  play  the  mid-wife 
on  the  way.  The  life  and  doings  in  a  brothel.  The  cold  mondaine 
who  makes  her  husband  so  wild  by  her  seductive  disrobing  that 
he  consents  to  her  conditions,  namely,  that  he  can  only  lie  with 
her  if  he  will  pay  her,  his  wife,  for  her  favors.  The  unfortunate 
plight  of  a  husband  who  suffers  much  because  he  must  love  too 
much,  and  his  subsequent  improvement  after  he  provides  his  wife 

267 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
with  a  sturdy,  powerful  lover.  All  these  themes  are  soaked  in  sex, 
and  they  are  just  a  tiny  sampling  of  the  vast  production  of  this 
prolific  raconteur.  He  tells  of  the  petty  adventures  of  the  pretty 
modiste  in  her  hunt  for  money  and  pleasure;  of  the  little  sailor 
girl,  when  the  four  fathers  of  her  still-born  baby,  promise  to  make 
another  for  her;  of  the  hermit  who  unwittingly  cohabits  with  his 
own  natural  daughter;  of  a  lesbian,  who  drives  her  lover  to  suicide 
because  of  her  tribadic  impulses.  He  shows  the  surprise  of  a  pair 
of  lovers  who  have  forgotten  to  bolt  the  door.  He  describes  the 
romantic  desire  of  an  aging  good  philistine  woman  to  have  at  least 
one  idyllic  moment  in  her  life;  and  the  first  heroism  of  a  boy  at 
boarding  school  who  wins  as  his  mistress  not  the  flapper  of  his 
desires,  but  the  dormitory  mother.  In  thoroughly  serious  and  fact- 
ual fashion  he  discusses  the  problem  of  undesired  motherhood.  He 
depicts  with  masterful  conciseness  the  frivolous  conception  of 
marital  fidelity  entertained  by  a  distinguished  matron,  who  winks 
from  her  window  to  a  passing  man  because  such  is  the  fashion  of 
the  prostitute  across  the  way.  When  the  man  comes  up  in  acknowl- 
edgment of  her  signal,  she  can  find  no  other  way  out  but  of  giving 
herself  to  him. 

In  their  diary  under  February  17,  1882,  the  brothers  Goncourt 
have  an  entry  expressive  of  their  irritation  with  the  dishonest 
hypocrisy  of  certain  critics.  One  of  these  gentry  had  asserted 
that  he  had,  much  against  his  will,  taken  a  peep  at  the  works  of 
Marquis  de  Sade.  But  at  the  same  time  Maupassant  informed  them, 
that  this  very  critic  had  requested  him  to  obtain  for  him  a  supply 
of  bawdy  books  from  certain  Belgian  publishers.  The  question 
arises  why  Maupassant  was  given  the  task.  It  seems  reasonable 
to  suppose  that  the  critic  suspected  that  Maupassant  had  some 
predilection  for,  and  some  knowledge  of,  this  type  of  literary  pro- 
ductions, and  that  he  also  had  certain  connections  with  publishers 

263 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FEANCE 
of  porneia.  This  would  lead  us  to  suppose  that  either  Maupassant 
himself  was  a  lover  of  erotic  literature,  or  that  among  his  friends 
he  was  known  to  be  active  in  this  field.  Actually,  the  second  sup- 
position is  true.  There  is  a  grotesque  eroticon  from  his  pen  called  The 
Turkish  House  which  was  never  printed.  This  work  was  written 
in  collaboration  with  Robert  Pinchon  and  the  manuscript  is  in 
the  possession  of  Maupassant's  uncle  the  painter,  Le  Pottevin.  The 
piece  is,  according  to  the  admission  of  the  author,  "horribly  in- 
decent" and  a  Parisian  journal  characterized  it  as  "bawdy  enough 
to  make  a  sargeant  blush".  The  Turkish  house  is  a  brothel  and 
Maupassant,  the  brothel  master.  This  piece  was  enacted  in  1875 
in  the  studio  of  the  painter  Leloir,  and  in  1877,  in  the  studio  of 
another  painter  Becker.  Flaubert,  Turgenieff,  Zola  and  others  were 
spectators.  Zola  remained  earnest,  Turgenieff  applauded,  Flaubert 
refreshed  himself  with  the  coarse  jesting.  A  female  spectator,  Suzane 
Lazier,  protested  and  left  the  room.  According  to  a  letter  of  Mau- 
passant, the  eight  women  in  the  cast  appeared  with  masks  on.  The 
remembrance  of  the  marvelous  frivolity  of  this  piece  was  so  vivid 
to  Edmond  de  Goncourt  that  thirteen  years  later  his  conversation 
would  occasionally  revert  to  it. 

Two  more  works  sail  under  Maupassant's  name.  First,  The  Girl 
Cousins  of  the  Colonel^  which  contains  the  story  of  two  sisters, 
of  whom  one  is  married  to  a  weak  husband  and  the  other  lives 
with  a  man  out  of  wedlock  and  is  disillusioned  by  her  experience. 
The  really  erotic  scenes  are  thinly  sowed  over  throughout  the 
book  and  everything  is  drawn  with  the  greatest  moderation.  Mau- 
passant himself  absolutely  denied  any  connection  with  this  book. 
It  is  likely  that  the  book  was  written  by  the  same  hand  that  wrote 
The  Romance  of  Violet,  Countess  Maurice  de  Boissiron,  an  intimate 
friend  of  George  Sand,  Both  volumes  manifest  the  author's  constant 
predilection  for  tribadic  scenes. 

264 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUHY 
The  second  novel  attributed  to  Maupassant  is  called  The  Adven- 
tures of  a  Parisian  Cocotte.  There  is  no  way  at  all  of  determining 
Maupassant's  authorship  but  many  have  assumed  it.  When  he  was 
still  young  and  unknown,  he  composed  a  number  of  ultra-realistic 
erotic  novels.  He  was  impelled  to  produce  this  type  of  literature  not 
merely  because  of  his  marked  tendencies  to  erotic  representations, 
which  appears  so  strongly  in  his  recognized  immortal  masterpieces, 
but  also  because  he  needed  money;  and  an  unknown  author  can 
always  find  a  publisher  in  Paris  for  this  sort  of  thing  much  more 
readily  than  for  his  serious  works.  Nevertheless,  the  book  is  master- 
fully done,  and  if  Maupassant  was  the  author  he  did  not  have  to 
be  ashamed  of  this  natural  child.  The  book  is  an  uncommonly 
interesting ,  even  fascinating,  picture  of  metropolitan  morality,  rich 
in  remarkable  figures,  extraordinary  events  and  thrilling  action. 
All  gallant  Paris  at  about  1880  passes  in  review  before  our  eyes. 
We  become  acquainted  with  the  boudoir  of  a  distinguished  cocotte, 
and  the  separees  of  aristocratic  restaurants.  We  catch  glimpses  be- 
hind the  curtains  of  great  varietes,  and  of  those  night  quarters 
which  serve  the  needs  of  fugitive  gallantry.  We  see  the  grand 
cocotte,  the  highly  paid  prostitute  who  seeks  her  clients  only  in 
high  society.  We  see  the  addicts  of  lesbian  love  cults;  the  journalist 
who  understands  how  to  make  all  gallant  ladies  favorably  disposed 
to  him;  the  spendthrift  banker  who  sacrifices  thousands  to  his  per- 
verse desires;  the  clever  little  ballet  dancer  who  knows  just  when 
to  rip  her  tights,  etc.  The  relationships  of  all  these  people  are 
drawn  with  great  realistic  fidelity  and  psychological  understanding. 
Emile  Zola  belonged  to  the  Flaubert-Maupassant  group.  In  his 
youth  he  wrote  a  little  eroticon  in  the  style  of  Lafontaine  called 
The  Devilish  Hermit,  in  which  he  very  successfully  copied  the 
pleasing  style  of  the  good  abbe.  That  Zola's  general  works  abound 
in  erotic  situations  is  known  to  every  one.  Take  for  instance  the 

265 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 
grandiose  scene  in  Germinal  when  the  old  women  unman  the  dead 
Maigrat. 

Now  they  heard  the  piercing  voice  of  the  Brule  woman: 

"We  must  mutilate  him  like  a  tomcat". 

"Yes,  yes!  Out  upon  the  tomcat.  Out  with  the  tomcat.  He 
has  done  too  much,  the  filthy  fellow." 

Already  Mouquette  was  opening  his  trousers  and  pulling 
them  off,  while  Levaque  raised  the  feet  of  the  dead  man.  Now 
Brule  spread  apart  the  thighs  of  the  corpse,  and  seized  with 
the  fleshless  hands  of  old  women  its  genitories.  She  got  hold  of 
everything  and  tore  with  such  force  that  her  dry  old  spine  bent 
and  her  long  arms  cracked.  The  soft  fleshy  parts  resisted.  She 
had  to  grab  hold  again  and  finally  tore,  tore  everything  out, 
tore  the  whole  mass  out,  a  filthy  bleeding  bundle  of  flesh  which 
she  swung  in  the  air  with  a  cry  of  triumph. 

"I  have  it,  I  have  it". 

Yawping  voices  greeted  the  monstrous  trophy  with  insults. 

"Now  you  dog,  you  shall  no  longer  fill  the  bellies  of  our 
girls." 

"Now  everything  is  out.  We  shall  no  longer  be  forced  to  hold 
your  buttocks  for  a  piece  of  bread." 

"Hey  you,  I  owe  you  two  francs.  Do  you  want  to  have  some- 
thing on  account?  I  want  it  right  now,  if  you  can  still  do  it." 

These  jests  filled  them  with  horrible  gayety.  They  showed 
each  other  the  bleeding  bundle  as  though  it  were  a  wild 
animal  from  which  they  had  all  had  to  suffer  and  which  now, 
finally,  they  had  in  their  power,  dead.  They  spat  upon  it, 
thrust  out  their  chins  at  it  and  repeated  their  mockery  in  wild 
expressions. 

"He  can  no  longer  do  it,  he  can  no  longer  do  it.  This  is  no 
more  a  man  which  will  now  be  hurled  into  the  earth.  Now  rot, 
you  useless  dog." 

Brule  stuck  the  whole  bundle  on  her  stick  and  holding  it  on 
high  as  though  it  were  a  flag,  began  to  move  followed  by  the 
howling  horde  of  women.  Drops  of  blood  fell  from  it  and  the 
lump  of  flesh  dangled  from  the  stick  like  a  piece  of  refuse  meat 
hangs  from  the  butcher's  table. 

366 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
If  one  were  to  compile  all  the  passages  of  Zola's  work  that  do  not 
correspond  to  squeamish  taste,  one  would  obtain  an  integral  work 
of  gross  obscenity  which  would  undoubtedly  fall  a  prey  to  the 
censor.  Curiously  enough,  this  attempt  at  compilation  was  actually 
made  in  France.  Towards  the  close  of  1896  a  second-hand  dealer, 
Antoine  Laporte  by  name,  issued  a  compilation  under  the  title 
Zola  agaijist  Zola.  It  contained  all  the  most  daring  and  realistic 
scenes  of  Zola's  writings  in  some  sort  of  order.  This  anthology 
was  adorned  with  a  frontispiece  of  exquisitely  refined  taste.  A  mass 
of  chamberpots  have  been  set  up  against  the  edifice  of  the  forty 
Academicians  and  are  blocking  the  way  to  it.  Each  of  these  pots 
bears  the  name  of  a  writing  of  Zola. 

If  Zola  is  raw  to  the  point  of  disgust,  if  he  wallows  in  the  mon- 
strosities of  human  life,  if  he  fears  no  stench,  if  he  permits  his 
characters  to  employ  words  that  are  omitted  from  ordinary  lexicons, 
he  is  never  lascivious.  He  knows  no  bawdy  illusions.  He  does  not 
raise  curtains  half  way  and  invite  the  imagination  to  complete  the 
process.  If  he  has  something  to  say  or  show,  he  says  and  shows  it 
with  the  rawness  of  truth  and  indignation. 

FAUL  VERLAINE 

Paul  Verlaine  (1844- 1896)  has  given  us  in  his  famous  poetry, 
verse  of  overwhelming  power  and  natural  charm.  There  is  some- 
thing unFrench  in  his  naturalness,  and  that  is  why  foreigners  are 
so  fond  of  the  emotional  warmth  and  truth  in  his  work.  But  these 
famous  poems  in  the  official  collections  are  not  the  whole  unadulter- 
ated Verlaine.  To  be  able  to  form  a  correct  judgment  of  the  man 
one  must  also  read  his  secret  books.  Having  done  the  latter,  we  are 
constrained  to  admit  that  he  would  have  remained  nearer  to  us 
had  we  been  spared  the  other  side  of  his  poetical  creation.  It  is 

267 


THE  EKOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FBANCE 
not  the  fact  that  Verlaine  was  an  erotic  writer  that  puts  us  out  of 
humor,  but  that  this  factitious  eroticism  explodes  Hke  a  cold  fire- 
cracker, and  does  not  break  forth  mightily  like  a  hot  stream  of 
lava  from  some  glowing  interior.  It  is  this  which  casts  a  shadow 
upon  his  character.  Les  Amies  is  a  series  of  six  extremely  candid 
sonnets  which  treats  of  the  sapphic  exercises  of  two  budding  girls. 
It  is  delightful  despite  the  passionate  eroticism  because  of  its  mag- 
nificent rhythm.  These  poems,  wonderfully  delicate  in  their  senti- 
ment, will  not  obscure  the  picture  of  the  poet.  But  what  of  the 
collection,  Men  and  Women,  which  appeared  clandestinely  in 
Verlaine's  last  years?  Stefan  Zweig,  the  best  student  of  Verlaine's 
work,  holds  that  in  these  works  Verlaine  takes  his  place  among  the 
greatest  pornologists  of  all  time.  He  has  sharply  broken  with  the 
tradition  of  the  charming  ribaldry  of  Grecourt  and  Piron  to  record 
with  unparalled  shamelessness,  subjective  pornography.  They  are, 
despite  their  smooth  form,  the  most  repulsive  in  their  self-rev- 
elation, the  most  complete  lexicon  of  perverse  arts,  the  most  brutal 
in  realistic  representation.  The  sexual  gaminerie  of  Verlaine  which, 
at  an  earlier  stage  of  his  life  in  the  Fetes  Galantes,  was  frequently 
able  to  unite  with  the  tender  sentiment  of  his  sensitive  soul  a 
coquettish,  panurgic,  lascivious  sort,  has  here  become  naked  and 
utterly  obscene.  It  is  infinitely  tragic,  this  spectacle  of  an  old  man 
on  the  hospital  lists  writing  with  uncertain  and  trembling  hand 
these  pitiful  rhymes  about  his  vices  and  past  nakedness,  all  for  a 
few  francs  with  which  to  buy  some  absinthe.  And  just  as  the 
poem,  Le  trou  de  cul,  written  together  with  Rimbaud,  and  repro- 
duced in  the  pederastic  book  Hombres,  destroyed  the  legend  of 
a  purely  psychic  and  ethereal  friendship,  so  too  the  existence  and 
distribution  of  these  books  banishes  the  fable  of  the  "pure  fool". 
It  is  all  too  pitiful,  but  the  immortal  singer  still  retains  the  sympathy 
of  all  great  poets  and  writers. 

26S 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUMY 
Femmes  was  published  in  1890  in  London  and  Verlaine  got 
twelve  pounds  sterling  for  it.  As  can  well  be  imagined,  the  edition 
was  almost  immediately  confiscated  so  that  only  a  few  copies  were 
sneaked  away.  Hombres  too  was  confiscated.  In  the  latter  work 
all  those  poems  were  unified  that  sprang  from  the  love  experience 
of  Verlaine  with  Arthur  Rimbaud,  and  are  therefore  songs  of 
praise  in  honor  of  uranic  love.  All  these  shamelessly  erotic  poems 
{Amies,  Femmes,  Hombres)  were  later  united  and  published. 

CHARLES  BAUDELAIRE 

By  the  side  of  Verlaine  we  might  fittingly  place  the  poet  of  deca- 
dence, of  the  abnormal,  Charles  Baudelaire.  He  regarded  divinity 
and  love  as  merely  welcome  texts  from  which  to  derive  stimulus 
for  inhumanly  smooth  and  satanically  cool  poems.  Concepts  re- 
versed themselves  for  him  and  good  became  bad,  and  evil  became 
ideal.  In  his  Flowers  of  Evil  there  stands  revealed  his  morbid  mania, 
to  make  the  ugly  and  hateful  the  subject  of  poetry.  Yet  he  cannot 
really  be  regarded  as  an  erotic  writer  even  though  he  extols  Venus 
imlgivaga  in  his  poetry,  though  not  exactly  in  the  same  measure 
as  Verlaine.  Six  poems  in  the  first  edition  of  this  work  were  branded 
as  immoral  by  the  police  and  had  to  be  expurgated  from  all  future 
editions.  Nevertheless,  Baudelaire  printed  them  privately  together 
with  some  satirical  poems  in  the  volume  Epaves,  which  Rops  pro- 
vided with  a  frontispiece.  This  volume  is  practically  non-existent 
today  but  other  editions  have  been  reprinted  often.  The  poem, 
A  maid  complains  in  midsu?nmer — "how  long  will  love  last?" 
gave  rise  to  a  wide-spread  pornographic  parody.  When  he  was 
only  twenty-one,  Baudelaire  chose  as  the  epitaph  suitable  for  him 
some  doggerel  to  the  effect  that  "here  lay  a  fellow  who  had  hurried 
to  the  worms  too  soon  because  he  had  fooled  with  women  too  much." 

269 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOMY  OF  FMANCE 
Baudelaire  had  a  great  love  for  erotic  literature  of  all  sorts  as 
appears  from  a  letter  of  his  to  his  publisher  in  1865.  "Thanks  for 
having  informed  me  about  the  price  of  Sade's  Justine  and  where  I 
could  possibly  find  it.  I  would  also  like  to  know  the  price  of 
Aphrodite,  and  what  in  your  opinion  are  the  characteristic  moral 
and  literary  qualities  of  such  slop?  You  may  ask  what  does  Baude- 
laire want  with  this  package  of  excrement?  The  said  Baudelaire 
has  enough  spirit  to  study  crime  and  vice  in  his  own  heart.  Well, 
the  information  I  want  from  you  is  intended  for  a  great  man  who 
believes  he  can  study  crime  in  other  people."  This  reference  is  to 
Sainte-Beuve  who  once  asked  Baudelaire  for  one  of  the  dirty  poems 
that  had  appeared  in  the  publishing  house  of  Poulet-Malassis, 
Baudelaire's  own  publisher. 


CHAPTER  XIX 

PUBLISHERS  OF  EROTICA 


THE  publication  of  erotic  books  has  meant  at  all  times  great  risks 
for  both  author  and  publisher,  for  if  discovered  both  would  be 
liable  to  hard  punishment.  It  is  remarkable  that  these  dangers  did 
not  have  an  intimidating  effect,  that  large  monetary  and  jail  sen- 
tences just  did  not  impede  the  propagation  of  this  literature.  The 
author  generally  does  not  lose  very  much  when  his  writings  are 
confiscated.  But  much  more  is  at  stake  for  the  publisher.  Under 
certain  circumstances  he  saw  the  foundation  of  his  business  endang- 
ered when  the  entire  edition  of  a  pornographic  work  into  which  he 
had  sunk  a  portion  of  his  fortune  fell  a  prey  to  the  censor.  And  yet 
there  were  innumerable  booksellers  who  though  fully  aware  of 
these  dangers  continually  sought  to  outwit  the  law.  What  was 
the  attraction?  Surely  the  chief  motive  was  the  desire  to  earn 
large  and  quick  profits,  for  obscene  books  must  always  obtain 
a  higher  price  than  any  other  kind  of  reading  matter.  There  are 
several  reasons  for  this:  the  fact  that  they  are  prohibited,  that  they 
titillate  the  senses,  that  they  can  serve  as  a  help  in  seduction,  that 
they  are  good  investments  for  their  value  increases  with  the  passage 
of  time,  and  occasionally  such  books  are  sold  at  very  high  prices 
indeed.  But  this  economic  moment  alone  will  not  serve  to  explain 
everything  satisfactorily.  For  if  the  publisher  or  bookseller  reaps 
profits  from  the  sale  of  one  product,  he  is  exposed  to  great  loss  if 
some  other  of  these  books  should  be  confiscated.  It  appears  likely 

271 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 

that  there  was  also  a  very  strong  bibliophilic  interest  which  impelled 
the  daring  publishers  to  offer  a  home  to  new  books  of  value,  what- 
ever their  eroscenic  nature,  or  to  pluck  certain  old  books  from 
oblivion  by  reprinting  them  in  worthy  garb.  There  was  also  a 
degree  of  spiritual  relationship  between  the  publisher  and  his 
authors,  which  impelled  the  former  to  gather  around  him  people 
who  were  of  similar  taste  for  erotics,  facetiae,  curiosa,  and  thus 
to  obtain  a  more  accessible  market  for  his  more  tolerable  publications. 
A  half  dozen  of  the  most  important  French  publishers  of  erotica 
in  the  last  century  will  now  be  mentioned. 

1.  Felix  Regnier-Becker,  bom  Mem,  was  a  carpenter  by  trade. 
In  1829  he  issued  a  collection  of  his  own  verses  and  in  1830  pub- 
lished The  Siege  of  Paradise.  This  brought  him  a  penalty  of  three 
months'  imprisonment  and  a  fine  of  300  francs.  However,  a  certain 
journal  took  up  a  collection  for  him  which  was  so  successful 
that  he  could  not  only  pay  the  fine  but  had  a  tidy  little  sum  left, 
with  which  he  became  a  bookdealer.  He  devoted  himself  to  the  pro- 
mulgation of  obscene  books  and  put  more  than  a  hundred  of  these 
into  circulation.  Indictments  and  penalties  against  him  multiplied 
but  the  more  the  persecutions  increased,  the  greater  became  his 
bookselling  activities.  Nothing  further  is  known  of  his  later  life. 

2.  Jules  Gay  was  a  vagrant  bookseller.  He  lived  first  at  41 
quai  des  Grands-Augustins,  Paris,  but  fled  to  Belgium  to  escape 
punishment.  In  1865  he  became  a  partner  of  a  Belgian  publisher, 
Mertens.  Later  he  left  Brussels  secretly  and  we  find  him  suc- 
cessively in  Geneva,  Turin,  Nice  and  San  Remo,  and  finally  in 
Brussels  again  where  he  formed  a  new  firm  with  a  Mile.  Douce. 
In  1 87 1  he  founded  the  Soviet e  des  bibliophiles  cosmopolites  whose 
only  members,  however,  were  himself  and  his  son  Jean,  who  opened 
a  small  bookshop  in  Turin  in  1875.  The  senior  Gay  was  very  active, 
particularly  in  the  domain  of  erotica.  His  chief  interest  was  not 

272 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
in  the  publication  of  original  works  but  in  the  reprinting  of  famous 
masterpieces  of  erotic  literature,  which  he  sent  out  into  the  small 
world  of  bibliophiles  in  exceedingly  fine  editions.  Naturally  he 
frequently  ran  afoul  of  the  law  which  could  not  understand  his 
aims,  which  were  ideal  from  the  standpoint  of  the  bibliophile. 
In  order  to  escape  persecution.  Gay  was  careful  to  hide  his  identity 
at  least  in  the  most  daring  books;  but  as  a  general  rule,  he  gave  the 
child  of  his  firm,  his  own  name,  or  that  of  Gay-Douce.  He  circu- 
lated his  books  from  one  of  the  metropolitan  centers  listed  above. 

As  the  illustrator  for  his  books,  Gay  had  the  virtuoso  Felicien 
Rops  who  was  himself  more  or  less  responsible  for  the  publication 
of  a  number  of  books  in  this  genre  and  was  himself,  a  bookworm. 
Besides  women,  his  art  and  flowers,  he  loved  nothing  more  than 
to  brouse  about  old  books.  Many  of  these  were  found  by  him  and 
later  published,  e.g..  The  Satirical  Cabinet^  The  Devotions  of  Mon- 
sieur Roch,  and  others.  All  the  books,  about  70,  which  Rops  illust- 
rated were  more  or  less  erotic,  some  in  the  quarrelsome,  humorous 
old  Flemish  style,  many  in  the  gallant  forms  of  the  eighteenth,  and 
the  rest  in  the  decadent  style  of  the  ninteenth  century.  All  his 
engravings  which  were  the  products  of  a  ripe  artist,  refer  to  women. 
It  is  difficult  to  say  whose  influence  was  greater:  that  of  contem- 
porary literature  upon  Rops,  or  the  influence  he  exerted  upon  the 
writing  of  his  contemporaries  who  began  to  write  about  women  as 
he  represented  her  in  his  lines  and  planes  and  colors. 

Gay  was  indicted  several  times,  and  in  1863  he  had  to  pay  a 
fine  of  100  francs  and  suff^er  the  confiscation  of  his  books.  Two 
years  later  he  again  appeared  before  the  court,  this  time  in  the 
company  of  other  publishers.  He  was  accused  of  being  the  pub- 
lisher of  38  erotic  and  obscene  books,  and  was  sentenced  to  four 
months  in  jail  and  500  francs  fine.  Gay  himself  reported  these 
trials  in  a  work  which  he  published  in  a  limited  edition  of  but  100 

273 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 

copies.  In  this  he  does  not  polemize  against  his  sentence  but  merely 
sets  forth  the  reasons  that  induced  him  to  become  a  fervent  lover 
of  clandestine  literature  and  an  inveterate  bibliophile,  and  hence 
to  undertake  the  publication  of  these  and  other  confiscated  works. 

3.  Another  publisher  sentenced  at  the  same  time  with  Gay  was 
Poulet-Malassis  who  received  one  year  in  jail  and  500  francs'  fine, 
in  punishment  for  the  86  erotica  he  had  sent  into  the  world,  and 
the  unscrupulousness  that  characterized  this  distribution.  Undoubt- 
edly monetary  motives  were  paramount  with  him,  but  even  he 
was  definitely  a  bibliophile.  His  de  luxe  edition  of  the  classics  was 
a  terrible  failure  and  well-nigh  ruined  him.  Now  he  was  compelled 
to  move  to  the  suburbs,  to  Ixelles,  where  Baudelaire  lived,  and  to 
take  a  small  house  among  the  philistines.  Bibliographic  interests 
and  the  very  natural  desire  to  recoup  his  fortunes  impelled  him  to 
take  up  the  publishing  and  reprinting  of  piquant  works.  Here 
the  little  slender  man  sat  bent  over  his  manuscripts  and  proofs, 
indefatigable  and  indomitably  ambitious,  and  supervised  the  edi- 
tions that  were  to  bring  the  choicest  products  to  the  small  com- 
munity of  booklovers.  Baudelaire  gave  him  encouragement  and 
stimulus;  and  Poulet  succeeded  in  obtaining  the  active  cooperation 
of  the  distinguished  artist,  Rops.  These  delightful  little  books  wan- 
dered into  the  world  on  strong  China  or  Holland  paper,  in  very 
limited  editions.  The  most  fruitful  year  was  1864,  which  saw  the 
publication  of  about  a  dozen  classics. 

4.  In  the  eighties,  the  work  of  Gay  was  carried  on  by  Isidore 
Liseux.  In  him  too  the  bibliophile  was  superior  to  the  tradesman, 
for  what  merchant  would  expose  himself  to  as  many  hazards  as 
did  Liseux?  His  editions  are  as  much  sought  after  today  as  Gay's. 

5.  Kistemaecker  in  Brussels  is  at  the  opposite  pole  from  Liseux. 
He  cultivated  pure  pornography.  Everything  that  was  at  all  coarse 
and  offensive,  be  the  contents  solid  or  froth,  was  meat  for  Kiste- 

274 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUMY 
maecker.  His  obscene  productions  were  smuggled  over  the  border 
to  provide  France  with  saucy  stuff. 

6.  At  the  turn  of  the  century  a  successor  who  followed  in  the 
footsteps  of  Gay  and  Liseux,  established  himself  in  Paris,  Charles ' 
Carrington  by  name,  an  Englishman.  In  excellent  editions,  provided 
with  prefaces,  he  issued,  both  in  English  and  French,  the  most 
famous  erotica  of  the  world  at  a  cheap  price.  True  bibliophile 
that  he  was,  no  erotic  product  was  outside  his  domain:  anthro- 
pology, chronicles  of  scandal,  flagellation,  original  gallant  literature, 
scientific  works  on  sex,  etc.  Charles  Carrington  was  harassed  by 
official  chicaneries  even  more  than  Gay  or  Liseux.  He  died  after 
the  World  War. 

A  word  will  be  in  order  about  Felicien  Rops  ( 183  3- 1898),  whom 
we  have  mentioned  several  times  as  the  illustrator  of  numerous 
erotic  books.  This  Flemish  artist,  of  colossal  strength,  found  in 
Paris  the  world's  center  of  the  striving  after  pleasure.  From  the 
wealth  of  experience  he  had  here  and  the  multitude  of  sights  that 
came  under  his  eyes,  the  notion  crystallized  in  his  mind  that  all 
life  and  thought  centered  around  woman.  He  loved  the  Parisian 
mixture  of  silk,  nerves  and  powder  with  eyes  greatly  enlarged 
through  the  application  of  cosmetics.  There  is  nothing  more  ravish- 
ing, colorful,  or  gallant  than  the  plastic  Decameron  of  elegant 
Paris  which  Rops  undertook.  He  looked  everywhere  and  saw 
everything.  And  every  woman  that  he  represented  he  undressed,  */ 
but  always  left  her  some  bit  of  clothing:  a  pair  of  hose,  a  panty,  a  \ 
corset;  anything  to  make  her  nakedness  more  titillating.  Rops  often 
pilloried  modern  woman,  representing  her  as  a  prostitute,  with  bony 
body,  with  eyes  staring  and  made  wild  by  alcohol,  with  protruding 
jaws;  a  prostitute  whose  tremendous  power  is  a  mixture  of  base 
and  lusting  elements.  It  is  the  sexual  life  destroyed  and  poisoned 
by  a  depraved  morality  that  speaks  to  us  through  the  medium  of 

275 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTORY  OF  FKANCE 
Rops'  intellectual  art.  He  represents  the  lurid  tragedies  of  love  of 
revengeful  women,  whose  passion  dotes  on  the  strong  spice  of 
sadistic  feeling;  and  by  her  side,  in  his  inexhaustible  gallery  of 
modem  women,  those  grinning  children  of  lust  whose  prototype 
is  that  street  Venus  bursting  with  power  and  strength,  appearing 
in  the  picture  Pornocraty.  Rops  descended  into  the  hell  of  the 
brothel  and  cheap  tavern  to  show  us  the  women  in  whom  im- 
morality has  begun  its  work  of  disintegration.  Weary  and  nau- 
seated by  the  endless  monotony  of  their  metier,  these  women  for 
whom  the  beaker  of  lust  has  become  flat  and  stale,  have  taken  ref- 
uge in  absinthe,  which  still  leaves  them  a  few  pitiful  illusions,  and 
confers  upon  them  an  artificial  happiness,  and  the  meagre  intoxica- 
tion of  forgetfulness.  Hollow-eyed  they  he  there  before  us  in 
expectation  of  the  routine  embrace,  with  just  a  rag  of  a  shirt  to 
cover  the  nakedness  of  their  withering  body,  washed  out,  ener- 
vated Messalinas.  He  shows  us  these  unfortunate  creatures  on  the 
inexorable  decline.  The  progress  of  their  ruin  makes  them  confused 
and  wasted  drunkards  in  whose  eyes  only  the  fire  of  alcohol 
glimmers;  or  they  become  that  mercilessly  emaciated  woman  whose 
type  he  draws  for  us  in  Mors  syphilitica.  Of  all  the  thrilling  beauty 
of  the  earthly  goddesses,  which  once  could  lash  male  flesh  into 
fury,  nothing  now  remains  but  a  heap  of  human  ruins.  What  was 
I  once  a  woman,  now  is  entirely  debased,  debauched,  and  disin- 


(  tegrated  by  the  foul  profusion  of  modem  perversities,  now  is  the 
broken,  shapeless,  useless  plaything  of  the  devil  hurled  on  the 
rubbish  heap  to  complete  her  decay. 

Before  we  get  to  the  end  of  our  forage  into  the  nineteenth 
century,  let  us  say  a  little  about  erotic  theatres,  particularly  the 
erotic  theatre  on  the  Rue  de  la  Sante,  previously  referred  to.  This 
erotic  theatre,  which  actually  existed  from  1862  to  1864  owes 
its  rise  to  a  drunken  jest.  In  the  circle  of  young  bohemians  some 

276 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
one  got  the  idea  of,  creating  a  little  puppet  theatre  for  the  amuse- 
ment of  a  few  chosen  ones.  Droll  pieces  were  to  be  presented  and 
no  limits  were  to  be  set  to  the  fancies  of  the  poets.  The  theatre  was 
opened  in  the  presence  of  twenty-five  young  authors,  publishers 
and  artists.  Among  the  invited  guests  were  Chamfleury,  Monselet, 
Daudet,  and  Poulet-Malassis.  These  presentations  even  found  a 
favorable  review  in  the  press.  Some  of  the  comments  were:  Still  a 
new  theatre.  An  intimate  theatre.  Theatron  eroticon  that  is,  a  theatre 
with  love  arousing  marionettes.  But  without  excitation,  and  every- 
thing is  held  within  moral  bounds.  The  harlequin  thrusts  have  at  all 
times  been  the  guardians  of  morality  and  when  the  mother  cannot 
bring  her  little  daughter  here,  this  hospitable  place  will  become  the 
pleasurable  gathering  place  of  talented  artists  and  literati. 

In  order  to  afford  the  reader  some  notion  of  these  plays  a  few  of 
the  more  common  ones  will  be  summarized. 

The  Eyes  of  Love  by  Lemercier  de  Neuville  is,  despite  its  erotic 
license,  very  interesting  psychologically.  Sylvia,  a  brothel  mistress 
still  young,  complains  in  a  monologue  that  she  must  always  further 
the  intimate  relations  between  her  girls  and  the  visitors,  while  no 
hour  of  love  comes  to  her.  For  this  reason  she  decides  to  go  on  the 
"line"  once  again.  Luck  is  with  her.  Dorante,  a  famous  pimp  and 
girl-dealer  wants  to  pay  for  his  female  flesh  once,  for  a  change. 
Since  Sylvia  pleases  him  he  follows  her.  Deceived  by  his  fine 
clothing  she  acquiesces  to  his  terms  of  paying  later.  But  his  end 
having  been  gained,  the  pander  in  him  comes  out  and  he  states 
very  brutally  that  in  his  own  house  of  prostitution  he  would  not  / 

tolerate  such  a  one  as  stupid  as  she  who  did  not  know  enough  to 
insist  on  payment  before  the  deed.  Now  Sylvia  removes  her  mask, 
avows  her  amorous  desires,  and  proposes  that  he  become  her  bully, 
to  which  he  assents. 

A  Caprice  by  the  same  author  deals  with  a  married  skirt-chaser 

277 


THE  EEOTIC  HISTOEY  OF  FEANCE 
by  the  name  of  Florestan.  He  comes  to  a  strumpet  whose  suggestive 
name  is  Urinette,  but  she  is  still  at  her  toilette.  In  the  introductory 
monologue  he  avers  that  he  was  on  the  point  of  fulfilling  his 
connubial  function  with  his  sleeping  little  wife.  But  variety  is  at- 
tractive, and  so  he  decides  to  go  out  and  hunt  up  a  new  vessel. 
Hence  he  interrupts  his  siege  to  his  wife  and  saves  his  ammunition 
for  later.  But  when  the  jade  enters  and  tempts  him  to  the  act,  he 
suffers  a  shameful  impotence.  Urinette  leaves  him  alone,  raging  mad. 
Soon  Don  Priapus  shows  his  caprice  and  rises  to  new  life.  But 
Urinette  is  implacable  and  Florestan  experiences  a  recrudescence 
of  moral  scruples.  Why  debauch  away  from  home?  True  happiness 
is  to  be  found  only  at  home. 

Scapin  by  Glatigny  is  a  peculiar  sort  of  drama.  Lucinde,  the 
daughter  of  Corbin  and  the  betrothed  of  Pignouflard,  does  not 
want  to  wash  her  private  parts.  The  father  complains  to  Scapin, 
a  brothel  master,  about  his  troubles  whereupon  the  latter  offers 
to  bring  about  the  girl's  ablution  if  she  will  come  to  his  institution. 
Corbin  agrees.  By  chance  the  fiance  of  Lucinde  visits  the  brothel 
and  naturally  meets  his  bride.  The  engagement  is  in  danger  of 
being  broken.  Thereupon  the  master  of  the  brothel  brings  in  a 
tub  with  the  bathwater,  and  the  pestilential  fumes  stream  out, 
a  sign  that  the  girl  is  washing  herself.  All  ends  in  harmony. 

The  Sign  of  Gold  by  Amadee  Rolland  and  Jean  Duboys  has 
been  aptly  designated  as  excrement  by  Deditius.  This  erotic  scato- 
logical musical  comedy  in  three  acts  is  the  best  thing  in  the  collec- 
tion, after  Monnier's  contribution.  The  Marquis  who  is  growing 
old  wants  an  heir  to  carry  on  his  name  and  makes  every  possible 
effort  to  gain  his  end.  But  he  must  have  recourse  to  many  artifices, 
which  we  shall  leave  undescribed  here.  The  drama  occupies  itself 
as  much  with  infidelities  as  with  excrement  but  the  dialogue  is 
carried  out  with  considerable  wit. 

278 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
The  Anniversary  of  the  Marriage^  by  Neuville  and  Duboys, 
describes  two  young  and  now  honorably  married  women,  despite 
their  earlier  wanton  Hfe,  who  are  expecting  their  former  lovers 
in  a  separee.  Memories  are  exchanged.  Both  are  dissatisfied  with 
their  husbands  who  do  not  understand  how  to  love.  The  only  lovely 
thing  is  love  between  women.  They  become  more  and  more  in- 
timate and  at  the  very  moment  when  the  waiter  outside  is  ushering 
the  lovers  in,  both  women  disappear  in  order  to  flee  to  Lesbos. 
The  Grisette  mid  the  Student  of  Monnier  has  already  been  ana- 
lyzed. The  Last  Day  of  a  Condemned  Man  of  Tisserand  and  The 
Grand  Symphony  of  the  Bug  of  Neder  and  Bataille,  possess  neither 
the  wit  nor  the  effectiveness  of  the  others. 

All  in  all,  one  must  admit  that  much  effort  has  been  expended 
on  such  none  too  worthy  dramas.  There  seems  to  be  little  justifica- 
tion for  the  expenditure  of  money  and  intellectual  effort  except  as  a 
manifestation  of  French  drama  and  thought  during  the  nineteenth 
century. 


^e^e^e^s^^c^e^e^? 


CHAPTER  XX 

VENUS   VICTORIOUS 


THIS  final  chapter  will  attempt  to  bring  the  erotic  history  of 
France  up-to-date.  It  will  show  the  wide-spread  eroticism  and 
marital  infidelities  among  the  bourgeoisie  and  how  they  altered  the 
customs  of  the  houses  of  prostitution  which  had  been  practically 
unchanged  since  the  birth  of  France,  a  thousand  years  ago.  It  will 
also  point  out  the  significant  consequences  of  the  erotic  movies, 
which  have  also  become  an  indispensable  part  of  brothels.  This 
history  makes  no  pretence  to  go  beyond  the  nineteenth  century, 
but  in  this  closing  chapter  we  shall  treat  somewhat  of  twentieth- 
century  France. 

Venal  love  has  been  found  at  all  times  and  among  all  peoples, 
and  indeed  it  will  continue  to  exist  as  long  as  social  and  economic 
contrasts  remain  in  national  life.  Poverty  compels  youth  to  make/ 
capital  of  its  body;  indolence  and  the  desire  to  lead  a  comfortable 
life  without  strenuous  labor  will  always  recruit  the  ranks  of  prosti- 
tutes. Tliis  fact  is  not  altered  by  the  circumstance  that  with  the 
progressive  emancipation  of  women  the  stigmatization  of  extra-4- 
marital  intercourse  has  begun  to  disappear.  It  is  true  that  our  social 
evolution  with  the  difficulties  it  sets  in  the  way  of  marriage,  espe- 
cially for  those  belonging  to  the  middle  class,  has  gradually  a- 
chieved  some  measure  of  recognition  for  the  varied  forms  of  pre- 
and  extra-marital  sex  relationships.  Indeed,  this  development  has 
already  progressed  very  far.  Prostitution  still  exists  in  that  primitive 

280 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUHY 
form  which  it  has  had  for  centuries,  with  one  important  difference; 
the  rigid  boundaries  erected  between  bourgeoisie  and  prostitution 
have  become  more  flexible.  But  this  can  scarcely  be  interpreted 
as  a  higher  stage  of  moraUty. 

Although  the  practices  in  all  the  brothels  of  the  world  are 
essentially  the  same,  there  are  some  differences  between  the  French 
and  those  of  foreign  brothels.  The  satisfaction  of  the  sheerly  physical 
need  without  any  trace  of  emotional  excitation,  the  practice  most 
common  in  harbor  brothels  is,  in  Paris,  found  only  in  the  very 
lowest  dives.  But  the  average  prostitute  in  Paris  wants  to  create  the 
impression  at  least  that  it  was  an  impulse  of  the  heart,  be  it  ever 
so  ephemeral,  that  impelled  her  to  give  herself.  This  circumstance 
probably  has  its  ground  in  the  fact  that  among  the  French,  almost 
/  the  whole  private  and  public  life  is  steeped  in  sex.  Hence,  physical 
satisfaction  is  not  simply  a  whim  that  appears  suddenly  and  will 
be  submerged  by  other  interests  immediately  after  the  act. 

The  famous  sexologist  Rohleder  who  went  through  the  metrop- 
olis of  France  with  wide-open  impartial  eyes  characterizes  the 
dominant  atmosphere  in  most  telUng  words.  He  concluded  that 
one  need  only  to  have  lived  in  Paris  a  very  short  while  and  to  have 
observed  attentively,  to  realize  how  everywhere  in  public  life,  in 
the  larger  and  particularly  the  smaller  theatres,  varietes,  cafes  chan- 
tants,  the  main  boulevards,  the  restaurants  down  to  the  vilest 
absinthe  dive,  everything  turns  on  the  sexual.  What  makes  every- 
thing so  easy  is  the  system  of  hotel  quarters.  There  are  thousands  of 
smaller  and  medium  sized  hostelries  which  are  available  to  couples 
for  a  brief  hour  or  so.  One  must  have  seen  how  immensely  large 
this  clandestine  prostitution  is,  how  here  almost  any  kind  of  woman, 
from  the  honorable  matron  to  the  maid  and  factory  operative,  give 
themselves  to  a  greater  or  less  degree  to  this  clandestine  prostitution; 
how  here  at  every  moment  of  the  day  and  in  every  section  of  the 

281 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOKY  OF  FRANCE 
city  sexual  debauches  are  indulged,  how  almost  all  pleasure  and 
art  itself,  serve  the  sexual.  Let  the  stranger  enter  Paris  from  the 
Gare  du  Nord  or  the  Gare  de  VEst.  Unless  it  is  very  early  in  the 
morning  and  even  then  the  stranger  \vill  find  immediate  incitement 
to  sex,  his  attention  will  soon  be  riveted  to  sex.  He  has  scarcely 
alighted  from  the  train  when  he  will,  not  uncommonly,  be  accosted 
by  individuals  who  will  volunteer  to  act  as  his  guides  pour  les 
amusements.  When  he  arrives  at  the  hotel  he  may  have  the  ex- 
perience of  being  smiled  at  most  warmly  and  lovingly  by  the  filles 
de  chambre;  and  if  he  is  too  naive  to  understand  their  smiles  or  too 
indifferent,  these  females  will  inform  him  quite  directly  that  they 
are  ready  for  an  hour  of  love.  When  he  goes  to  a  restaurant,  unless 
it  is  a  grand-cafe  of  the  most  elaborate  kind,  he  will  very  soon  be 
informed  that  white  meat  is  on  the  menu,  and  which  is  ready  for 
consumption  after  his  meal.  When  he  goes  to  an  amusement  place 
he  will  be  surprised  at  the  elegance  and  luxury  of  the  appointments; 
and  also  at  the  naturalness  with  which  prostitution  manifests  itself. 
But  in  this  respect  Paris  is  like  other  great  metropolitan  centers, 
which  cater  to  an  enormous  contingent  of  travellers  who  have  to 
be  amused.  Since  Paris  has  long  borne  the  odium  of  being  the  most 
wicked  capital  in  the  world,  it  must  strive  to  do  justice  to  all  tastes 
in  order  to  bring  gold  into  the  land.  But  this  fact  alone  will  not 
explain  the  overplus  of  prostitution.  Indeed,  many  other  motives 
are  at  work,  particularly  the  poor  economic  circumstances  which 
continually  recruit  the  ranks  of  the  daughters  of  joy.  The  under- 
paid salesgirls  and  shop  clerks  can  practice  prostitution  as  their 
main  vocation  for  quite  a  while  without  passing  as  official  prosti- 
tutes. However,  only  a  slight  impetus  will  be  necessary  to  push 
them  in  that  direction.  Sickness,  unemployment,  domestic  quarrels, 
trouble  with  the  police, — all  are  just  a  few  causes  which  may  make 
professional  prostitutes  out  of  clandestine  ones.  If  these  factors  do 

2S2 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY 
not  come  into  operation,  then  the  traffic  with  one's  corporeal  charms 
can  still  contribute  a  very  appreciable  addition  to  the  otherwise 
meagre  income.  The  sinking  to  the  level  of  purchasable  goods  is 
rendered  easy  by  the  frivolity  of  the  Parisienne  which  is  inbred 
and  nurtured  by  the  germs  of  seduction  which  enter  every  pore  of 
her  body  with  the  very  air  of  Paris. 

This  frivolity  of  attitude  to  mate  or  lover,  this  gay  evaluation 
of  marital  fidelity,  had  necessarily  to  seek  a  vent  through  which 
the  accumulated  sexual  tension  could  be  relieved,  and  whereby 
the  woman  with  an  eye  to  financial  remuneration  could  realize 
her  desires.  The  most  convenient  opportunity  for  these  amusements 
were  offered  by  the  maisons  de  rendezvous.  This  system  of  tem- 
porary quarters,  in  which  the  woman  who  was  willing  to  sell  her 
body  could  enter  and  leave  secretly,  offered  to  both  sexes  all  the 
opportunities  and  delights  of  intimate  intercourse  without  sub- 
jecting either  of  the  parties  to  the  degrading  feeling  of  venality. 
The  man,  who  had  to  pay  a  higher  price  for  these  goods  than  for 
the  usual  prostitute,  could  enjoy  the  piquant  feeling  of  having  an 
adventure  with  a  good  woman,  while  continuing  to  enjoy  the 
lure  of  the  forbidden.  The  woman,  on  the  other  hand,  earned  from 
these  occasional  adventures  some  valuable  pin  money  whereby  she 
could  satisfy  the  extravagant  wishes  of  her  capricious  little  head 
without  molesting  the  purse  of  her  legitimate  consort.  Talmeyr, 
who  visited  very  many  of  these  houses  of  rendezvous  at  the  behest  \ 
of  the  police,  has  described  his  experiences  in  a  book  entitled: 
TkeEnd  of  a  Society:  New  Forms  of  Corruption  in  Paris.  He  con- 
firms the  fact  that  it  was  primarily  the  wish  to  earn  a  little  some- 
thing from  her  escapade  that  impelled  the  woman  to  visit  such 
convenient  houses  of  opportunity.  Some  came  regularly,  others 
infrequently.  Whatever  class  of  society  they  were  recruited  from, 
they  found  here  at  all  times  and  under  the  most  discreet  circum- 

2S3 


\ 


THE  EROTIC  MISTOHY  OF  FEANCE 
stances  whatever  sum  they  were  in  need  of,  the  fifty  or  one 
hundred  francs  of  the  httle  business  to  the  3,000  or  4,00  francs 
of  the  big  transaction,  in  return  for  the  usufruct  of  their  person. 
But  we  must  not  forget  the  fact  that  it  was  men  who  were  the 
patrons  of  these  houses;  it  was  they  who  visited  these  maisons  de 
rendezvous  to  give  free  rein  to  their  passions  and  who  ultimately 
guaranteed  the  profitability  of  such  establishments. 

It  is  self  evident  that  such  houses  needed  many  customers  to 
carry  on.  The  mania  of  the  male  visitors  consisted,  as  is  quite  com- 
prehensible, in  working  for  their  partners  married  women  and 
ladies  of  society;  and  it  was  the  duty  of  the  mistress  of  such 
houses  to  arouse  the  belief  in  these  gulls  that  their  wishes  v/ere 
being  gratified.  There  certainly  was  no  lack  of  married  women 
and  even  the  demand  for  ladies  of  society  could  in  most  cases  be 
suppHed.  When  the  latter  was  not  possible  the  clever  panderesses 
could  always  create  the  illusion  that  Countess  de  X  or  Marquise 
de  Y  was  ready  to  give  her  private  favors  for  a  suitable  price. 
Such  a  pleasure  naturally  was  worth  much  and  there  were  enough 
simpletons  who  bought  for  a  dear  price  nothing  more  than  the 
commonest  whore.  But  although  ever  so  often  ladies  of  the  peri- 
patetic vocation  would  be  frequenters  of  such  houses,  the  effort 
was  constantly  made  to  avoid  anything  that  might  be  offensive 
and  give  away  baldly  the  preciously  guarded  secrets  of  the  house. 
After  all,  it  was  the  unsuspected  nature  of  these  love-nests  that 
constituted  their  value  to  those  who  made  occasional  use  of  them. 

Of  course  these  houses  did  considerable  damage  to  the  brothel 
business  but  they  continued  to  exist  in  all  shades,  from  the  most 
luxurious  palatial  villa  to  the  most  miserable  hovel.  They  served 
all  types  of  perversities  including  the  most  fiendishly  cruel;  and 
even  the  most  repulsive  sadists  got  what  they  wanted  if  they  but 
paid  enough  for  it.  No  matter  how  much  a  girl  was  tortured, 

284 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUMY 
the  police  could  not  interfere  if  she  had  consented  to  suffer  these 
perversities. 

Doctors  agree  that  the  modern  cultured  person  needs  variety 
and  that  constant  physical  copulation  with  the  same  person  re- 
quires change.  It  was  but  one  step  further  to  suggest  that  the 
change  be  a  complete  alteration  of  the  sexual  act,  and  this  change, 
the  Parisian  brothels  met  in  the  cleverest  ways  and  called  into 
service  the  most  complicated  achievements  of  modern  technique. 
In  the  illustrated  comic  weeklies,  particularly  Le  Sourire,  there  are 
weekly  advertisements  of  these  temples  of  vice  where  all  sorts 
of  "artistic  tableaux"  and  representations  of  gallant  engravings  are 
enacted  in  the  flesh.  There  is  a  great  appeal  about  this  sort  of  sex- 
travagance.  As  soon  as  the  spectators  have  taken  their  places  and 
find  themselves  in  good  hands,  the  presentation  begins — behind 
a  glass  plate.  Behind  the  scenes  of  suburban  theatres,  bayaderes 
from  the  rue  Lepic  give  themselves  to  lesbian  love  just  as  the  collegean 
student  might  imagine  it.  Or  the  eighteenth  century  is  employed 
as  the  milieu  of  the  scene  to  be  enacted.  The  famous  pieces  of 
Schall,  Fragonard,  Borell,  and  the  lesser  masters,  follow  in  order  be- 
tween a  bed  from  the  milieu  of  the  Faubourg  St.  Antoine  and  two 
empty  easy  chairs.  They  enacted  The  Enema^  The  Lever  of  the 
Newly  Married  Couple,  and  many  daring  illustrations  to  the  tales 
of  Lafontaine.  It  is  understood  that  all  this  was  amusement  for 
cultured  folks  only,  for  one  must  at  least  be  acquainted  with  the 
tales  of  Lafontaine  to  appreciate  the  detailed  points  of  the  panto- 
mime. 

But  no  matter  how  clever  and  attractive  such  shows  might  be 
for  the  numerous  audiences  of  well-read  people,  they  could  never 
satisfy  the  coarser  instincts  of  the  average  public.  Artificial  rep- 
resentations no  matter  how  piquant,  are  not  what  the  visitor  to 
a  brothel  expects.  He  desires  more  powerful  fare  and  this  is  pur- 

2S5 


THE  EROTIC  HISTORY  OF  FRANCE 

veyed  in  the  very  numerous  pornographic  movies.  These  are,  to 
be  sure,  no  monopoly  of  the  French  for  they  are  found  in  the 
brothels  of  all  other  countries.  Curt  Moreck,  writing  about  the 
pornographic  film,  says  that  it  offers  us  an  insight  into  the  varied 
erotic  tastes  and  views  of  the  different  nations.  Thus  the  French 
films  specialize  in  depictions  of  the  orgasm,  of  the  acts  of  dis-. 
charge,  and  go  into  the  broadest  descriptions  of  the  preparatory 
acts,  though  occasionally  attention  is  centered  on  the  latter  to  such 
an  extent  that  the  sexual  act  occurs  behind  the  scenes.  England 
produces  such  stuff  principally  for  consumption  by  India;  and 
South  Africa  prefers  flagellational  scenes  and  sadistic  abuses  of 
negroes.  Italy,  whose  southern  extremity  is  already  in  the  zone  of 
Oriental  sexuality,  cultivates  as  its  specialty  the  sotadic  film,  the 
representation  of  sodomitic  acts;  and  only  slightly  less  popular 
than  photographs  of  sexual  acts  between  men  and  beasts,  are  scenes 
of  copulation  among  beasts.  In  Germany  sin  is  without  grace 
and  indeed  in  the  erotic  movies  of  this  land  the  charge  seems  quite 
true.  For  they  generally  show  well  executed,  terribly  realistic  coitus 
scenes  but  lack  the  erotic  pictures  of  animals.  One  can  say,  in  brief, 
that  the  pornographic  movie  comprehends  the  whole  scale  of 
immorality  and  includes  all  variations,  from  the  refined  piquanterie 
which  shudders  at  the  representation  of  the  sex  act  and  depicts 
only  the  immoral  flirt  in  all  its  dangers,  to  the  most  bestial  wallow- 
ing in  the  foulest  and  most  extravagant  postures.  How  these  scenes 
were  staged  and  enacted  can  be  imagined  from  the  fact  that  the 
actors  were  in  most  cases  whores  and  alphonses,  or  other  shady  and 
depraved  individuals.  They  lack  every  trace  of  artistic  refinement 
and  are  merely  the  witless  hackwork  of  depraved  imaginations. 

Something  should  be  said  about  this  alphonse  or  bully  concern-  J 
ing  whom  the  reader  of  newspapers,  whose  curiosity  has  been  fed 
by  an  accommodating  press,  has  got  quite  false  notions.  These  de- 

2S6 


BOOK  IV:  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTUEY 
classed  of  society  have  nothing  queef  or  striking  about  their  ex- 
terior. The  balloon  cap  and  the  red  neckerchief,  the  chief  outward 
signs  of  the  Apaches,  have  passed  from  the  picture.  They  are 
only  recreated  or  called  back  into  life  to  impress  tourists  and  create 
local  color  and  the  illusion  of  cruelty,  mystery  and  mad  love.  There 
is  nothing  at  all  distinctive  about  the  clothing  of  these  Louis  which 
would  set  them  apart  from  the  average  citizen;  and  indeed,  like 
American  racketeers,  they  don't  like  to  have  too  much  attention 
drawn  to  them  in  any  way.  The  support  of  these  fellows  is  worried 
about  by  the  girls  who  "run"  for  them;  and  in  turn,  the  girls  find  in 
these  pimps,  protectors  and  lovers.  The  latter  factor  is  more  ima- 
ginary than  real  for  when  they  choose  their  bully,  they  virtually 
contract  to  support  him  continuously,  to  transfer  all  their  earnings 
to  him  and  if  these  are  sometimes  insufficient  to  suffer  abuse  and 
manhandling  as  punishment.  And  yet  one  of  these  lost  creatures 
will  hang  on  to  her  pimp  and  swear  every  manner  of  perjury  in 
order  to  save  him  from  jail,  because  in  a  moment  of  fierce  jealousy 
at  his  choice  of  another,  she  had  gotten  him  into  a  scrape. 

Again,  hke  American  racketeers,  these  bullies  had  to  have  a  voca- 
tion through  which  they  ostensibly  support  themselves.  They  usu- 
ally pretend  to  be  commercial  representatives,  travelling  salesmen 
of  wine,  cigars  or  perfumes,  or  else  they  choose  some  other  free 
profession  whose  economic  possibilities  cannot  be  checked  up. 
Every  bourgeois  occupation  is  thoroughly  eschewed;  and  it  is 
understood  that  everyone  who  "belongs"  will  not  hesitate  to  aug- 
ment his  business  with  a  little  extra  job  like  theft,  fake,  swindle, 
etc.,  a  procedure  not  only  not  frowned  upon  by  his  fellow  workers 
but  rather  abetted.  Since  they  are  regarded  as  declassed  by  the  laws 
of  the  bourgeoisie,  it  must  not  be  a  matter  of  surprise  if  they  do  not 
accept  such  laws.  In  this  respect  the  Parisian  bully  differs  in  no 
wise  from  his  colleagues  in  the  metropolis  of  any  other  land. 

287 


THE  EROTIC  HISTOHY  OF  FRANCE 
And  so,  we  come  to  an  end  of  the  erotic  history  of  France,  and 
the  history  of  its  erotic  literature.  There  are  endless  books  on  the 
history  of  France,  endless  books  on  its  literature,  but  hitherto  one 
could  find  no  work  dealing  with  the  erotic  aspects  of  this,  the  most 
erotic  of  European  countries.  What  is  the  relation  between  France's 
eroticism  and  its  eminence  in  the  arts?  What  is  the  relation  between 
France's  erotic  literature  and  its  eminence  in  world  literature?  We 
do  not  pretend  to  know  but  perhaps  this  volume  may  have  sug- 
gested a  few  ideas  in  the  mind  of  the  reader.  France  typifies  the 
highest  and  noblest  peak  of  Latin  civilization  in  the  modern  world. 
Its  contributions  to  the  spirit  of  man  are  immeasurable.  And  in  the 
use  of  leisure,  in  the  art  of  living  and  loving,  no  nation  in  Europe 
is  its  peer.  May  not  this  volume  contain  some  kernel  of  truth  to 
account  for  this? 

Finally,  it  behooves  us  to  repeat  that  we  have  tried  to  avoid  giving 
any  offense  to  the  reader  despite  the  nature  of  this  work.  It  has  been 
much  more  difficult  to  pull  in  the  reins  than  the  reader  imagines, 
for  it  has  only  been  since  the  World  War  that  Americans  have 
been  able  to  read  many  of  the  books  mentioned  herein;  and  even 
today,  despite  the  general  condemnation  of  censorship  by  men  in 
all  walks  of  life — except  for  works  of  definite  and  deliberate  obs- 
scenity — there  still  remain  blue  laws  and  censors  to  hound  the 
honest  and  intimidate  the  free. 


A  DESCRIPTIVE  SELECTION 

OF  CURRENT  PUBLICATIONS 
BY  THE  PANURGE  PRESS 


JACQUES- ANTOINE  DULAURE 

************ 

THE 

GODS  OF 

6ENER7ITION 


A  HISTORY  OF  PHALLIC  CULTS 
AMONG  ANCIENTS  &  MODERNS 

TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  FRENCH  BY  A.  F.  N. 

*  * 

* 


Privately  Printed 

THE  PANURGE  PRESS  :  NEV7  YORK 


TflE  GODS  OF  GENERATIOI^  BY  J.  A.  DIJLAURE 

Translated  with  a  Special  Preface  by  A.  F.  N. 
One  of  America's  Foremost  Authorities  on  Erotology 

Including  a  Biography  of  the  Author  by  Alcide  Bonneau 
One  of  the  Greatest  French  Writers  on  Phallicism 

This  immense  history  is  the  most  documented  work  on  erotics  ever  fublished  by  the  Panurge 
Press.  The  author^s  enormous  researches  and  lengthy  textual  matter,  and  his  hundreds  of 
notes  and  annotations,  comprise  the  most  comfrehensive  guide  on  the  worshif  of  obscene  Gods 
and  fhallic  religions  I 

Although  Dulaure's  world-famous  masterpiece  has  been  translated  into  many  languages  in 
abridged  editions,  this  Panurge  Press  edition  is  the  first  in  English.  It  is  entirely  complete, 
without  abridgement,  without  expurgation,  and  with  no  textual  passages  in  Latin! 

When  the  Gods  of  Generation  first  appeared  in  Paris  it  was  vigorously  condemned  but  the 
author  escaped  imprisonment  by  publishing  his  great  erotic  masterpiece  anonymously.  (The 
original  title-page  is  reproduced  in  this  volume.)  Twenty  years  later  the  work  was  reissued 
and  was  judged  outrageous  to  public  morals.  The  edition  was  seized,  suppressed,  and  de- 
stroyed.    Only  a  few  copies  escaped — and  the  author. 

These  facts  should  not  prejudice  any  serious-minded  person  against  this  first  English  transla- 
tion. The  author,  neither  prudent  nor  prurient,  having  chosen  a  theme  on  the  borderland  of 
forbidden  matters,  of  necessity  had  to  stir  up  a  bitter  brew  of  unpleasant  facts.  The  reader 
will  catch  his  breath  at  Dulaure's  transcriptions  of  secret  manuscripts  and  at  his  discoveries  of 
obscenity  In  the  most  sacred  places.  No  religion  escapes  his  prying  eyes  and  no  story  is  told, 
no  matter  how  risque,  without  its  source  being  given.  And  neither  laity  nor  royalty  fares  any 
better  from  Dulaure's  merciless  pen.  For  these  matters  and  a  thousand  other  friafeia  are 
necessary  to  build  the  most  remarkable  history  of  obscene  Gods  and  phallic  religions  ever  written. 

Roger  Goodland,  the  greatest  living  bibliographer  of  sexual  rites  and  customs,  and  who  has 
annotated  over  9,000  of  such  booh  and  articles  in  all  languages,  declares  the  Dulaure's  master- 
fiece  "is  the  standard  work  on  the  subject'^ 

No  one  can  even  begin  to  describe  such  a  work  in  a  single  page.  Everything  would  have  to 
be  extravagant  praise  for  It  belongs  to  that  strange  class  of  genuine  erotic  masterpieces,  works 
which  endure  from  century  to  century  with  Increasing  popularity.  One  can't  even  describe 
the  Gods  of  Generation  by  tabling  its  contents,  for  the  notes  alone  occupy  50  pages. 

Privately^  Printed.    Sold  to  Adults  Only.    Price  $5.00 
Vhe  "Panurge  "Press,   100  Fifth  Jive.,  ^ew  York 


ISAAC  GOLDBERG 


MADAME 


SEX 


NEW  YORK 
PRIVATELY  PRINTED 
THE  PANURGE  PRESS 


I^IADAJIIE  SEX  BY  DR.  ISAAC  GOLDBERG 

Modern  sex  psychology  has  opened  the  door  to  a  new  gallery  of  abnormal  women  and  has 
described  them  at  full  scientific  length.  But  writers  of  fiction  have  curiously  avoided  these 
scabrous  discoveries — for  obvious,  unworthy  reasons.  Now,  for  the  first  time  in  any  lan- 
guage, has  a  work  been  written  which  embodies  in  serious  fiction  the  devious  laws  of  sex 
and  the  latest  discoveries  concerning  these  strange  passion-driven  women. 

A  summary  of  the  stories  contained  in  this  large  collection  can  barely  beggar  its  fascinat- 
ing contents.  The  worldly-wise  behavior  of  a  nymphomaniac  among  a  large  society  of  men. 
The  combat  of  oriental  voluptuousness  with  occidental  hard-boiled  lust.  The  curative  effects 
of  sexual  gratification  on  insomnia.  The  sex  psychology  of  rich  old  maids  and  their 
tenacious  pursuit  of  young  men.  The  reaction  of  normal  feminine  desire  to  homosexual 
betrayal.  .  .  .  These  and  other  amatory  relations  are  described  with  such  insight  that  be- 
fore the  reader  has  finished  even  a  couple  of  stories,  he  begins  to  realize  that  for  sheer 
absorbing  interest  he   has  read  no  other  volume  like  it. 

Nymphomania  Masochism 

A  nymphomaniac  gives  herself  to  every  mem-  How  a  sensual  pianist,  finding  the  possession 

ber  of  a  symphony  orchestra,  starting  at  the  of  pretty  girls  no  aid  to  stardom,  becomes  the 

bottom  and  working  up  to  the  temperamental  gigolo  of  a  rich  old  spinster  who  expects  him 

leader.      ("Madame    Sex")  to  repay  her  in  non-musical  ways.  ("Gigolo") 

Hindu  Love 
IJranism  Portraying  a  Hindu  lover  whose  yen  for  tak- 
How  a  passionate  woman,  in  love  with  her  ing  nude  movies  of  his  American  mistresses 
husband's  business  partner,  tries  to  arouse  leads  to  an  ironic  affair  with  a  beautiful  mod- 
the  latter's  passions  only  to  discover  that  the  ern  sophisticate.  ("Nude  Mood") 
men  are  homosexualist  lovers.  ("Square  Tri- 
angle") Aphrodisia 

An  artist's  insomnia  verges  on  madness  until 
a  woman  incognito  finally  effects  his  cure  by 
Lesbianism  playing  on  his  passions.  ("Insomnia") 
A  father,  opposing  his  son's  marriage,  ex- 
plains the  situation  to  his  own  mistress  who.  Conjugal  Rape 
unknown  to  him,  is  the  sapphic  lover  of  his  In  which  a  bride  and  groom  during  their  first 
son's    fiancee.      ("One    Good    Turn")                             night  together  participate  in  a  most  unusual 

display  of  sexual  behavior.     ("Bridal  Suite") 

Calf  Love  Incest 

An  amatory  picture  of  the  younger  generation  A  detailed  example  of  incest  between  brother 

depicting    a    small-town    calf    lover    and    his  and    sister,    its    disastrous    effect    on    normal 

city-bred  sophisticated   girl  friend,   ending  in  marriage,     and     its     strange     unconventional 

curious  comic  relief.      ("First  Edition")  finale.     ("Happy  Ending") 

MADAME  SEX  is  a  private  publication  for  serious  adult  students  of  out-of-the-ordlnary  lit- 
erature. It  is  certainly  not  for  those  who  relish  sub  rosa  productions  of  gutter  obscenity. 
The  tone  of  this  erotic  treasure-house  is  singularly  robust  in  spite  of  its  psychopathic  nature. 
Stark  tragedy  jostles  comedy  and  gruesome  perversions  rub  shoulders  with  normal  love,  while 
the  profundity  of  the  work  Is  lifted  with  a  lightheartedness  which  recalls  the  candor  of  Chau- 
cer and  Boccaccio,  and  the  comic  element  in  Pantagruel  and  Panurge.  For  Madame  Sex  is  Ma- 
dame X  under  the  skin  and  her  amatory  experiences  as  described  in  this  volume  certainly 
justify  her  appellation. 

Prioately  Printed.    Sold  to  Adults  Only.    Price  $5.00 
'^he  "Panurge  Press,   100  Fifth  Jve.,  U^ew  York 


ncisio 


circumcision 


raepuht 

1/-1  cTltsiorp  oj  \Ulale  ana  cJemale  \^n 

toiik  \^naf)iers  on  ^UleriaaapnrocitsnafCiJnjiouiaiionf 

(Ounucnismf  cyriapisvn  ana  divers  other  \^urious 

ana  cJkallic  K^usionas  ^n<^^ 

cJrivaiely  C/rinied 

cJne   Cyanur^e    Cyress    t    t    t     \\l  lew    cJJovk 


PRAEPUTU  INCISIO 

A  History  of  Male  and  Female  Cireumclsion  iw'ith  Chapters  on  Hermaphrodlsm, 
Infibulatlon,  Eunuchism,  Priapism  and  divers  other  Curious  and  Phallie  Customs. 

Although  this  curious  volume  is  primarily  a  history  of  male  and  female  circumcision,  it  is  really,  by  virtue 
of  its  discursive  chapters,  an  astonishing  history  of  genital  curiosities.  The  anonymous  doctor-traveller-author 
not  only  brings  to  light  the  most  unorthodox  phallic  habits  of  numerous  races,  but  takes  the  reader's  breath 
away   by  his  startling  revelations  of  erotic  ethnology. 

The  chapter  on  INFIBULATION  AND  SIMILAR  PRACTICES  is  an  eye-opener.  Here  we  find  the  strangest 
instruments  attached  to  the  organs  of  men  to  preserve  their  chastity.  Among  women  the  instruments  and 
genital  incisions  are  of  even  greater  variety  and  barbarity:  chastity  belts,  pierced  straps,  proclaiming  bells, 
bamboo  sticks,  miscellaneous  locks,  etc.  Naturally,  these  instruments  are  of  devilish  cunning  and  are  prevalent 
among  oriental  harems,  Judean  virgins,  married  women  of  Ethiopia,  Mohammedan  brides,  etc.  .  .  .  The 
author  also  describes  methods  of  sewing  up  the  sexes  of  women,  a  procedure  as  widespread  as  it  is  brutal. 

PRIAPISM  AND  THE  HOLY  PREPUCE  is  the  next  theme.  Here  are  discussed  the  conflicting  claims  made 
by  various  churches  to  their  supposed  possession  of  the  holy  prepuce  and  the  efScacy  of  this  relic  as  a  mirac- 
ulous cure  for  any  and  every  ailment  of  feminine  sterility.  These  presumably  authentic  relics  enabled  many 
a  roguish  priest  to  practice  easy  deceptions  upon  pious  and  credulous  women.  Even  kings  and  queens  had 
recourse  to  these  holy  prepuces,  of  which  our  author  furnishes  historic  proof.  The  whole  theme  with  its 
amusing  anecdotes  throws  a  lurid  light  on  the  close  relationship  between  phallic  worship  and  medieval 
European  Christianity. 

The  subject  of  EUNUCHISM  AND  CASTRATION  is  simply  amazing.  There  are  different  kinds  of  eunuchs 
and  different  degrees  of  castration.  According  to  our  author,  every  race  has  its  own  peculiar  method;  the 
Chinese  manner  of  taille  a  fletir  de  ventre  is  the  most  primitive  whereas  the  great  eunuch  factory  at  Abou- 
Gerghe  in  the  Soudan  prescribes  the  most  revolting.  To  lighten  the  severity  of  these  operations  and  other 
descriptions,  he  chronicles  eccentric  stories  on  the  castrated  Italian  choir  boys,  the  Skoptsy  sect  of  Russia,  the 
marriage  of  eunuchs,  the  remarkable  cases  of  Origines  and  his  monks,  and  the  harem  intrigues  of  eunuchs. 

The  account  of  FEMALE  CIRCUMCISION  confides  some  of  the  least  realized  secrets  of  anthropology. 
Though  its  practice  is  sporadic  in  South  America  and  Indo-Asia,  it  is  common  among  the  Mohammedans 
and  even  more  extensive  among  genuine  negro  tribes  of  Africa.  Sometimes  it  is  a  national  custom  as  among 
the  Indians  of  Ecuador,  Peru  and  Brazil;  sometimes  a  religious  ritual  as  in  Egypt  and  Abyssinia;  and  some- 
times as  in  modern  Europe,  a  surgical  operation  as  a  prevention  of  self-abuse  among  little  girls  or  as  a 
cure  for  adult  female  erotomania.  The  topic  is  a  fascinating  one,  albeit  cruel,  and  a  mine  of  strange  infor- 
mation for  it  covers  the  practice  of  female  circumcision  at  all  ages,  from  early  girlhood  until  long  after 
marriage,  up  to  its  modern  introduction  into  England  and  the  United  States. 

Endless  have  been  the  stories  of  double-sexed  persons  but  this  chapter  on  HERMAPHRODISM  AND  HYPO- 
SPADIAS records  some  of  the  most  curious  cases  in  all  history.  Pregnant  males,  freaks  of  nature,  the  devel- 
opment of  eunuchism  to  pederasty,  hermaphrodlsm  among  lower  forms  of  animals,  marital  difficulties  among 
bisexualists,  autopsy  revelations,  medico-legal  aspects,  etc.,  etc. — indeed  the  most  mongrel  cross-bred  human 
beings  with  the  genitals  of  both  men  and  women  are  here  discussed  and  recorded  with  incredible  proofs. 

The  theme  of  IMPOTENCE  AND  FLAGELLATION  renders  in  many  a  tale  and  detail  the  correlation  be- 
tween praeptitii  tnctsio  and  anaphrodisia.  As  in  other  chapters  not  mentioned  in  this  announcement  through 
lack  of  space  the  author  illustrates  this  theme  with  his  personal  experiences  as  a  surgeon  all  over  the  world, 
and  does  not  hesitate  to  describe  such  outrageous  customs  as  point-tying,  the  Judicial  Congress,  etc.  Elimi- 
nating all  prurient  appeal  throughout  the  300-odd  pages  of  this  volume,  he  discusses  everything  in  out- 
spoken, descriptive  detail;  for  many  of  the  genital  secrets  explained  in  this  private  opus  will  prove  wholly 
unknown  to  the  interested  reader. 

Privatel})  Printed.    Sold  to  Adults  Only.    Price  $5.00 
'Uhe  'Panurge  "Press,   100  Fifth  Jive.,  ^ew  York 


w 


cu  fpc/tic-^/may  s  ci/tnaiovy  aove/niuve$  \fj  fwmcv 
by  i^s. Jpa^nuvas. t^vess  /iicS>  yovk  -^^sls 


Si 


S 


EIJIV1JCHS,  ODAUSqiJES  AND  LOVE  BY  IVICOLAS  FROZ^IAGET 
A  FRENCHMAN'S  AMATORY  ADVENTURES  IN  TURKEY 

Here  is  a  record  of  oriental  passions  and  harem  sexuality  which  could  be  written  only  by 
an  adventurer  and  a  lover.  No  other  serious  author  has  told  us  with  such  candor  the 
secrets  of  harem  love  and  the  parts  played  by  eunuchs  and  odalisques  in  Turkey.  This 
novel  is  the  long,  gripping  story  of  a  man  who  loved  passionately  and  trickily,  a  man  to 
whom  women  were  the  most  important  thing  in  life  and  who,  no  matter  what  the  risk  or 
danger,  slaked  his  lust  at  every  opportunity. 

Some  of  the  W^omen  -who  Pass  throusSh  the  Frenchman's  Arms 

FAKMA  initiates  the  Frenchman  into  the  mysteries  of  oriental  passion  and  their  unrestrained 
love  affair  is  curiously  interrupted 

GUL.TRIC  finds  her  old  husband  tedious  and  encourages   the   Frenchman   to   make   up   for   the 
former's  biological  deficiencies 

INDGI  proves  insatiable  in  the  vicious  pleasures  of  Venus  and  her  demoniac  sexuality  quickly 
brings  her  lover  to  collapse 

FATIMA  demands  the  Frenchman's  favors  after  discovering  another  woman  in  his  arms,  and 
the   insatiable  reprobate   gratifies  her 

MIRZALA  the  Sultan's  sister,  is  confidentially  aided    by    eunuchs    and    odalisques   in   carrying 
out  her  mysterious   harem   intrigues 

CHARMEN  proves  to  the  Frenchman  that  her  languorous  intimacies  are  more  thrilling  than 
the  sensual  transports  of  her  mistress 

CHEMAME  is  the  unwitting  victim  of  seduction  through  a  strange  arrangement  between  the 
Frenchman  and  her  mother-in-law 

CHERA  at  first  refuses  to  surrender  because  of  her  immoral  Becthaschite  sect  but  afterwards 
gives  herself  gladly 

NEDOUA  towers  above  the  Frenchman's  ribald  loves  and  his  overwhelming  passion  for  her 
leads   to   repeated    tragic  adventures 

ZAMBAK  resists  in  vain  and  afterwards  the  Sultan,  unaware  of  her  defloration,  appoints   her 
his  chief  odalisque 

MARIQUILLA  pursues  the  Frenchman  with  her  brazen  advances  and  thinks  nothing  of  slip- 
ping into  his   bed  stark  naked 

NAMEK  and  the  Frenchman  carry  on  their  shameless  dalliance  in  the  open  despite  the  prying 
eyes  of  eunuchs  and  odalisques 

This  gorgeous  volume  of  300  pages  achieves  pure  Turkish  feeling  through  the  emplosmient 
of  Turkoman  type  effects.  Although  neither  offensive,  obscene  nor  doctrinal,  this  volume  is 
an  indubitable  classic  of  Turkish  life,  warm  with  the  color  and  conviction  of  an  eye-witness. 
"The  reader  is  egged  on  to  jump  from  chapter  to  chapter  in  his  eager  pursuit  of  the 
kaleidoscopic  amours  of  the  protagonist.  Action  is  the  keynote  of  this  novel,  and  speed 
its  tempo,  and  once  the  pace  quickens  to  full  swing,  the  reader  is  not  given  a  paragraph 
even  to  pause  for  breath."— From  the  INTRODUCTION. 

Privately)  Printed.    Sold  to  Adults  Only.    Price  $5.00 
"Che  Vanurge  'Press,  100  Fifth  Jive.,  U^ew  York 


m 


miiLmmimmmm>  mmin 
^w  irmm  mmmmimik\k  < 

WSMIEU 


IIIEW  Y^mu 


CHASTITY  BELTS  BY  ESAR  LEVINE 

HERE  is  a  book  that  defies  description  because  there  is  no  other  book  like  it — in  any  language.  Several  pamphlets 
have  been  written  on  the  subject  but  no  extended  history  of  it  has  ever  been  attempted  despite  the  fact  that  for  hun- 
dreds of  years  European  women  have  been  harnessed  and  bridled  in   these  chastity  belts. 

Chastity  belts  are  metal  instruments  fitting  over  the  private  parts  of  women  and  securely  kept  in  place  by  lock  and 
key.  Jealous  men  would  lock  up  their  wives  in  this  way  before  departing  on  long  journeys  to  prevent  them  from 
sleeping  with  other  men  during  their  absence.  These  iron  and  silver  girdles  were  perforated  with  tiny  holes  to  permit 
urination,  preventing  at  the  same  time  the  pleasures  of  Venus.  Many  of  them  were  double  models  which  safeguarded 
both  the  front  and  back  orifices. 

This  history  races  through  the  centuries  up  to  the  present  time,  crowding  its  hundreds  of  pages  with  some  of  the 
strangest  information  ever  put  between  two  covers.  For  the  author,  in  tracing  the  origin  of  these  belts,  discusses  many 
a  similar  sexual  instrument  of  ancient  and  primitive  days.  The  book  assembles  and  assorts  all  the  rich  material  on  the 
subject:  epigrams,  verses,  witty  anecdotes,  memoirs,  scandalous  court  trials,  short  stories,  newspaper  accounts,  anthro- 
pological tidbits,  etc. — a  rapid-fire  of  fable,  fiction  and  fact. 

We  hesitate  to  hint  at  the  more  revolting  aspects  of  this  unique  work:  the  discovery  of  chastity  belts  on  the  corpses 
of  women;  the  irremovable  models  on  pregnant  women;  their  employment  in  horrors  of  sadism,  masochism,  mutilation, 
and  as  instruments  of  torture. 

But  this  history  is  much  more  than  a  catalogue  of  Inquisitorial  ferocity.  It  is  as  comprehensive  as  Sex  itself,  and 
counterbalances  its  horrors  with  hundreds  of  laughable  indelicacies — for  chastity  belts  only  too  often  fanned  the  fires  of 
a  woman's  lust.  Duplicate  keys  were  often  available,  locksmiths  easily  bribed,  and  belts  ripped  off  by  impatient  lovers. 
.  .  .  Anticipating  the  reader's  disbelief,  the  author  substantiates  his  tales  by  reproducing  etchings,  woodcuts,  museum 
specimens,  private  models,  engravings,  etc.,  of  dozens  of  chastity  belts  of  every  shape  and  style  in  FULL-PAGE 
ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Scattered  throughout  this  history  are  spicy  short  stories  which  in  themselves  comprise  an  excellent  volume  of  erotica. 
Some  of  them  are:  The  Painter's  Ass  by  Verville,  the  futility  of  female  belly-painting  as  a  scare  to  lovers;  A  Brutal 
Punishment  by  Giovanni  Fiorentino,  a  passionate  drama  of  padlocked  love;  The  Use  of  Dirty  Water  from  The  Hundred 
Merry  Talcs,  proving  that  the  cunning  of  women  will  always  outwit  the  vigilance  of  husbands;  Horns  rather  than  Crosses 
by  Comazano,  in  which  a  simpleton  tries  to  improve  upon  the  chastity  belt.  These  and  other  stories  culled  from  rare 
forbidden  classics  lend  a  wealth  of  color  to  this  gold  mine  of  miscellaneous  tidbits. 

The  author's  place  among  authorities  of  erotica  is  sufficient  to  stamp  any  of  his  works  of  unique  interest.  No  other  living 
writer  in  America  today  possesses  so  wide  a  knowledge  of  literary  curiosa  and  esoterica.  Eschewing  all  pornographic  and 
prurient  appeal,  he  records  on  almost  every  page  some  casual  anecdote  from  an  erotic  classic,  some  amusing  paraphrase  of 
an  unknown  genital  law,  some  curious  reference  to  an  unmentionable  perversion.  Indeed,  the  index  pages  of  CHASTITY 
BELTS  read  like  some  elaborate  encyclopedia  of  all  the  sexual  sciences. 


Privately)  Printed.    Sold  to  Adults  Only.    Price  $5.00 
Vhe  "Panurge  'Press,   100  Fifth  Jive.,  3^ew   York 


EROTIC  FAIRY  TALES 

EnglisUed  from  \\\e  FrcncVi  of  \\\e 

ABBE       DE       VOISENON 


NEWYORK:     PRIVATELY    PRINTED 

For  Private  Collectors  of  Erotica 

THE    PANURGE    PRESS 


EROTIC  FAIRY  TAUES  BY  THE  ABB^  DE  VOISENON 

ROYAL  BED  OP  ROSES  is  a  riot  of  erotic  adventures  in  the  guise  of  a  fairy  tale.  Two  rival 
fairies,  each  desiring  the  Princess  as  her  daughter-in-law,  transform  their  sons  into  various 
animals  in  order  to  attain  their  ends.  Follows  a  series  of  quick,  tumbling  amorous  frus- 
trations, ending  with  the  marriage  of  one  of  them  to  the  Princess.  But  every  time  he  attempts 
to  culminate  his  duties  as  a  husband,  the  other  fairy  plays  the  most  hilarious  pranks  upon 
him.      The    humor    is    simply    irresistible. 

In  despair,  the  husband  sends  for  the  Grand  Instructor  who  overcomes  the  fairy's  artifices  in 

a  manner   which   infuriates    the   husband Meanwhile,  his  rival  obtains  the  Princess"  private 

favors  until . . . 

The  Grand  Instructor,  whose  advice  on  marital  indelicacies  is  solicited  by  all  the  gallant  ladies 
and  courtiers,  is  a  scream  in  the  higher  mysteries  of  esoteric  passion,  and  performs  his  ama- 
tory miracles  with  the  most  sophisticated  tomfoolery Some  of  the  high  lights  of  this  ero- 
tic fairy  tale  are: 

PERSUASION  VIA  THE  LAP  OF  ROYAL  A  TICKLISH  LIAISON  IN  THE  WOODS 

MOTHE.'^S 

THE   REVERSAL  OF  THE   WEDDING- 
THE   IMMODEST  PARTRIDGES  NIGHT  PAINS 

THE  COLICS  OF  CUCKOLDRY  THE  17  CHILDREN  OF  A  VIRGIN 

THE  BIZARRE  TAPESTRY  SPELL  THE  MAIDENHOOD  RESTORATIVES 

THE    MOVING    PICTURE    GALLERY   OF  THE   ENCHANTED   FOUNTAIN  OF 

DEBAUCHERY  SEDUCERS 

RHAPSODY  RISQUE  is  a  mad  whirl  of  sexual  lubricity.  It  narrates  the  adventures  of  a 
Prince  and  Princess  in  their  efforts  to  marry.  The  Princess  has  been  brought  up  as  an  inno- 
cent prude  but  a  mischievous  fairy  breaks  down  her  love  resistance  and  she  charmingly 
surrenders  to  her  sweetheart.     Soon  another  fairy,  jealous  of  their  happiness,  separates  them. 

Then  the  fun  begins.  Every  page  adds  intrigue  to  intrigue,  indiscretion  to  indiscretion, 
through  a  wild  whirl  of  ticklish,  embarrassing  vicissitudes. . . . 

At  length  the  Princess  is  abducted  to  the  Temple  of  Isis  in  the  Community  of  Virgins.  And 
what   virgins!  . . . 

Meanwhile  the  Prince,  beset  by  a  veritable  rhapsody  of  risque  adventures,  is  finally  discovered 
by  a  friendly  fairy  who  transforms  him  into  a  dog  and  leads  him  to  the  Community  of  Vir- 
gins. As  a  dog  he  wanders  about  bedrooms  and  boudoirs  and  is  privileged  to  witness  what 
no  man  may. . . .  The  finale  of  this  novelette  is  a  whirlwind  of  complicated,  convulsive  erotics. 

This  volume  is  a  superlative  achievement  of  modern  typographic  art,  both  in  elegance  of  for- 
mat and  in  richness  of  binding.  The  entire  book  is  printed  in  color. .  .  .  Although  the  contents 
of  EROTIC  FAIRY  TALES  are  thoroughly  facetious,  they  trespass  neither  on  the  domain  of 
pornography  nor  vague  symbolism.  An  explanatory  introduction  containing  a  biographical 
sketch  of  the  author  is  included  in  this  volume. 

Privately)  Printed.    Sold  to  Adults  Only.    Price  $5.00 
"Uhe  Vanurge  "Press,   100  Fifth  Jive.,  V^ew  York 


LACK 
LIST 


JEAN    DE    VILLIOT 


Privately   Printed  ty 

THE  PANURCE  PRESS 

New  York 


BLACK  LUST  BY  JEAX  DE  VILLIOT 

Black  Lust  is  one  of  those  bizarre  works  of  fiction  and  fact  whose  haunting  details  live  with  the  reader  forever.  It  is  an 
encyclopedia  of  venery,  a  kaleidoscope  of  perversions,  a  jungle  of  horrors.  This  description  does  not  exaggerate;  if  any- 
thing, it  is  an  understatement  of  this  tremendous  work.  The  publishers  assure  the  reader  of  this  prospectus  that  no  book 
which  he  has  read  in  many  years  can  compare  with  Black  Lust  in  disturbing,  diabolic  sexuality. 

The  first  chapter  opens  with  scenes  in  London  between  two  lovers.  After  a  few  drinks  James  Churchill  tries  to  force 
his  sweetheart,  Grace,  in  the  most  brazen  way.  Disillusioned,  she  goes  to  Khartoum  where  she  eventually  becomes  a  nurse. 
James  follows  a  few  months  later  to  seek  forgiveness.  Presently  the  black  dervishes  of  the  neighboring  tribes  sack  the 
city  and  put  all  Christians  to  the  sword,  reserving  the  pretty  girls  for  oriental  purposes.  James,  protecting  Grace,  is 
brutally  murdered  while  she  is  raped  and  led  away  by  one  of  the  chiefs  to  ornament  his  harem. 

The  love  and  hate  of  this  white  woman  for  the  black  Mohammedan  chief  forms  the  overtone  of  this  historic  novel  of 
300-odd  pages.  Horror-stricken  at  first  in  being  forced  to  serve  every  whim  of  her  master,  the  latter  by  dint  of  flagella- 
tion and  similar  brutalities  arouses  in  her  a  lustful  and  willing  submission.  After  his  death  the  black  chief's  brother  falls 
heir  to  the  harem  and  adds  new  tortures  and  perversions  to  break  her  rebellious  spirit. 

The  background  of  Black  Lust  describes  the  savage  struggle  for  supremacy  among  the  native  tribes  in  the  Valley  of  the 
Nile  before  the  turn  of  this  century.  With  its  sharp,  nervou  style,  all  quivering  with  intensity,  it  vividly  reproduces  the 
nightmare  terror  of  those  wild  times.  The  bamboo  torture,  t  e  pebble  death,  the  head-drum  rack,  the  genital  punishment, 
the  milk  test,  the  skull  trophies,  the  skin-slicing  salt  revenge — nothing  since  the  Spanish  Inquisition  can  compare  with 
these  and  a  host  of  other  sadic  torments. 

And  perversions!  What  a  theatre  of  sexual  scenes  this  book  presents!  Here  is  a  spectacle  of  the  Venus  aversa,  there  a 
picture  of  necrophilia — the  violation  of  corpses,  a  few  pages  further  on  a  frenzy  of  flagellation.  And  through  it  all,  the 
mad  lust  of  black  men  for  white  women.  The  whole  book  throbs  and  surges  with  it,  like  a  tidal  wave.  No  pantomime 
this  or  extravaganza  of  imagination.  The  scabrous  detail,  the  seething  passion,  the  quick  flash  and  fade-out  of  tropical 
sensuality  are  all  true,  all  authentic,  all  taken  from  records  and  eye-witnesses. 

This  kaleidoscopic  background  of  cruelty  and  perversion  is  interwoven  with  the  stark  secrets  of  the  harem.  Grace's 
adventures  therein,  the  clandestine  lesbianism  of  the  inmates,  the  parts  played  by  the  eunuchs,  the  diversified  types  of 
women — all  these  are  colorfully  painted  with  a  magic  of  representment.  The  deeper  tones  of  Grace's  private  experiences 
with  the  blackamoor  lord  of  the  harem,  their  animal  love  and  lust,  must  be  left  to  the  reader's  own  impressions. 

Lovers  of  romantic  literature  will  not  find  Black  Lust  easily  digestible  for  it  is  strong  with  merciless  fact  like  heady 
wine  and  is  intended  for  strong  men  only,  men  with  mature,  shock-proof  tastes.  Nevertheless  its  hundreds  of  pages  are 
not  pornography  for  it  is  not  concerned  with  problem  or  propaganda  of  any  sort  but  with  the  true  and  unrelenting  events 
which  took  place  in  the  Valley  of  the  Nile  within  the  recent  memory  of  men.  A  mighty  document  whose  haunting  horror 
and  sexuality  will  live  with  the  reader  joreverl 


Privately  Printed.    Sold  to  Adults  Only.    Price  $5.00 
"Uhe  Tanurge  Tress,   100  Fifth  Jive.,  ^ew  York 


i 


\ 


I?UE 


PATE       DPE 


(RETURNED 


OCT   2  5  lftS]j 


3l?Tr 


^C>v  I  (^   ff., 


-W9^ 


SEP  Q? 

NOV  2  0  1!l9nJErUT 


"DEL  t  b  \m   „,,     T 


DEC  0  7  2001  ov  i  8  2ooi| 


-r- 


DFC  n  ^  ?npy  npy  <^  ^  ^002 


MAY  1  .1  2003- 
SEP  t  6  ?pfr3- 


■JUH  2  9  2003 


AUG  1  2  2003 : 


A  ?5 


<~     '^ 


-^  yitiiS 


) ; 


UNIVERSITY  OF  FLORIDA 


3    1262    05638    0677 


M3 


