COLUMBIA  LIBRARIES  OFFSITE 

AVERY  FINE  ARTS  RESTRICTED 


AR01 504002 


Ethiopica  &  Amharica 

A  List  of  TJ^orks  in 
The  New  York  Public  Library 


Compiled  by 
GEORGE  F.  BLACK,  Ph.D, 


New  York 
The  New  YorkJPublic  Library 
i  g  2  8 


iEx  IGtbria 


SEYMOUR  DURST 


When  you  leave,  please  leave  this  hook 

Because  it  has  heen  said 
"Ever'thinQ  comes  t'  him  who  waits 

Except  a  loaned  book." 

I 


Avery  Architectural  and  Fine  Arts  Library 
(in  i  01  Seymour  B.  Durst  Old  York  Library 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Ethiopica  ^Amharica 


A  List  of  IVorks  in 
The  New  York  Public  Library 

Compiled  by 
GEORGE  F.  BLACK,  Ph.D. 


New  York 
The  New  York^Public  Library 
I  g  2  8 


NOTE 

This  list  contains  the  titles  of  works  on 
Ethiopica  and  Amharica  owned  by  The  New 
York  Public  Library  on  August  I,  1928.  They 
are  in  the  Reference  Department,  in  the 
Central  Building  at  Fifth  Avenue  and  Forty- 
second  Street. 


Reprinted  from  the 
Bulletin  of  The  New  York  Public  Library 
of  July  and  August,  1928 


Printed  at  The  New  York  Public  Library 
form  p2 4  6  [x-10-28  3c] 


A 

Ignazio  Guidi 

CON 

Ammirazione  e  Stima 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Introduction    -      --      --      --      --  i 

Bibliography       -      --      --      --      -  13 

Periodicals  and  Collections      -      -      -      -  18 

History  of  Ethiopic  Language  and  Literature  19 

Ethiopic  Language      -      -      -      -      -      -      -  21 

Ethiopic  Literature  ------      -  27 

History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records)  -      -  33 

Inscriptions  --------      -  38 

Bible  -----------39 

Apocrypha  and  Pseudepigraphia  -  39 

Apocryphal  Literature            -----  47 

Theology  and  Biblical  Commentary   -  50 

Liturgies,  Rituals,  and  Prayers                         -  53 

Magical  Prayers  -      -      --      --      --  56 

Lives  of  Saints  -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -  57 

Amharic  Language  and  Literature    -  62 

Gurague  Language  and  Literature  -      -      -      -  68 

Harari  Language  and  Literature  -      -      -      -  68 

Tigre  Language  and  Literature     -      -      -      -  69 

Tigrina  Language  and  Literature      -  72 

Addenda                                          -      -      -      -  75 

Index  of  Authors       -      --      --      --  77 


[ 

Digitized  by 

the  Internet  Archive 

in  2014 

https://archive.org/details/ethiopicaamharicOOnewy 


H  JOB  LUDOLF 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


A  LIST  OF  WORKS  IN  THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 
Compiled  by  George  F.  Black,  Ph.D. 


INTRODUCTION 

THE  population  of  Abyssinia  is  composed  of  three  races,  Semitic, 
Hamitic,  and  Negroid.  The  first,  now  the  dominant  race  holding  the 
reins  of  power  and  ruling  the  others,  is  an  intruder  from  south-west 
Arabia  (Yemen).  They  are  now  much  mixed  in  blood  with  the  older 
Hamitic  stock  and  further  modified  by  an  infusion  of  negro  blood  due  to 
the  long-standing  institution  of  domestic  slavery.  The  race  is  purest  in  the 
north,  the  home  of  the  ancient  kingdom  of  Aksum,  the  blend  with  Hamite 
and  negro  increasing  towards  the  south.  To  the  Semitic  race,  says  Littmann, 
Abyssinia  is  indebted  for  what  civilization  it  possesses.  "They  founded 
an  empire,  they  built  temples,  palaces,  and  entire  cities,  as  well  as  dams  and 
reservoirs ;  they  originated  and  carried  on  the  only  literature  that  Abyssinia 
ever  had.  When  they  came,  they  were,  of  course  pagans,  but  after  some 
centuries,  they  became  Christian."  It  is  impossible  to  say  when  the  immigra- 
tion of  the  Semites  into  Abyssinia  commenced  but  it  must  have  been  several 
centuries  B.  C,  and  it  has  continued  almost  to  the  present  day.  Littmann 
mentions  that  an  Arab  tribe,  the  Rashaida,  has  crossed  to  the  western  side 
of  the  Red  Sea  within  recent  years,  "and  is  beginning  to  be  nationalized 
in  Africa  j  they  still  speak  Arabic,  but  have  commenced  to  use  the  Tigre 
as  well." 

The  indigenous  tribes  with  whom  the  Semitic  invaders  had  to  contend 
were  mainly  Hamitic,  probably  akin  to  the  ancient  Egyptians.  One  large 
section  of  this  race,  the  Agaw  or  Agao,  the  Athagaoi  of  the  Adulis  inscrip- 
tion (1st  cent.  A.  D.)  and  the  Agaioi  of  Cosmas  Indicopleustes  (c.  550 
A.  D.),  still  inhabit  the  province  of  Agaomedir  (i.  e.,  "the  land  of  Agao"). 
In  the  beginning  of  the  sixth  century  they  were  already  subject  to  the 
Semitic  kings  of  Aksum.  The  Agaw  tribes  have  different  designations  accord- 

[  i  ] 


2  THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

ing  to  the  territory  they  occupy,  e.  g.,  Waag,  Lasta,  Falasha,  Hamara,  etc. 
The  Falasha,  or  Beta  Esrd'el  ("House  of  Israel")  as  they  call  themselves, 
face  M.  Fai'tlovitch,  are  almost  certainly  a  branch  of  the  Agaw.  The  other 
main  tribes  of  the  Hamitic  race  are  the  Somalis,  Muhammedans,  occupy- 
ing nearly  the  whole  of  the  eastern  horn  of  Africa,  the  "land  of  Punt"  of 
the  Egyptian  hieroglyphic  inscriptions ;  the  Gallas  (or  Oromos),  partly 
pagan  and  partly  Muhammedan,  occupying  a  large  extent  of  territory  to 
the  south  of  Abyssinia ;  the  Afara  (Afar  in  singular,  called  Danakil  by 
the  Arabs,  Dankali  in  singular),  mainly  Muhammedan,  in  the  east;  the 
Sahos,  Muhammedan  nomads,  in  the  north-east ;  and  the  Bogos  (or  Bilin, 
after  the  name  of  their  language),  partly  Christian  and  partly  Muham- 
medan, who  occupy  the  ranges  north  of  the  plateau  of  Abyssinia.  For  the 
last  three  hundred  years  the  Gallas  have  been  steadily  encroaching  on  the 
southern  and  central  provinces  of  Abyssinia,  and  Islam  is  making  con- 
siderable headway  in  the  same  places. 

Of  the  various  settlements  formed  by  the  invading  Semites  the  most 
important  was  that  of  Aksum,  whose  port  was  Adulis,  the  modern  Zula, 
near  Annesley  Bay.  Cosmas  Indicopleustes  (c.  550  A.  D.)  copied  two 
long  Greek  inscriptions  at  Adulis,  the  originals  of  which  are  now  lost.  The 
first  records  the  conquests  of  Ptolemy  Euergetes,  and  shows  that  on  the 
African  side  of  the  Red  Sea  he  had  extended  his  Graeco-Egyptian  empire  to 
that  place  (B.  C.  247-223).  In  the  second,  the  beginning  of  which,  bearing 
the  name  of  the  king  who  caused  the  inscription  to  be  carved,  was  lost  when 
copied  by  Cosmas,  the  king  describes  his  conquests  in  the  territory  around 
Aksum,  and  says  "I  alone  of  the  kings  of  my  race  made  these  conquests." 
That  he  was  a  pagan  is  shown  by  his  rendering  thanks  "to  my  mighty  God, 
Ares,  who  begat  me,"  and  offering  sacrifice  for  his  victories  to  "Zeus, 
and  to  Ares,  and  to  Poseidon."  The  date  is  probably  in  the  first  century 
A.  D.  The  next  earliest  document  is  the  trilingual  inscription  of  Aeizanes, 
the  Greek  version  of  which  was  discovered  by  Henry  Salt  in  1805,  the 
Sabaean  by  Theodore  Bent  and  the  old  Ethiopic  by  Littmann.  The  date  is 
about  350  A.  D.  This  king  was  also  a  pagan,  as  he  speaks  of  his  Gods 
Mahrem,  Astar,  and  Medr,  i.  e.,  war,  heaven,  and  earth.  Two  inscrip- 
tions of  about  450  A.  D.  belong  to  the  reign  of  a  king  named  Ezana  or 
(Ta)zana  —  the  first  syllable  of  the  name  is  doubtful.   In  the  first  his 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA  3 

throne  is  dedicated  to  Astar,  Beher,  and  Medr,  i.  e.,  heaven,  sea,  and  earth, 
and  thanks  are  rendered  to  Mahrem  (=Ares)  the  god  "who  begat  the 
king."  In  the  second  the  king  has  changed  his  worship  to  the  Christian 
God,  'Egziabeher.  For  this  change  he  has  been  called  the  "Constantine  of 
Abyssinia." 

The  next  event  of  importance  was  the  arrival,  c.  500,  of  the  "Nine  Saints," 
so  celebrated  in  the  history  of  Abyssinia.  Their  names  are  as  follows: 
(1)  Za-Mika'el  Aragawi,  (2)  Pantaleon,  (3)  Isaac  Garima,  (4)  Afse, 
(5)  Guba,  (6)  Alef,  sometimes  called  <Os,  (7)  Mata'  or  Yem'ata, 
(8)  Liqanos,  (9)  Sehma.  The  first  three  are  the  most  renowned,  and 
extraordinary  miracles  have  been  attributed  to  them.  Their  arrival  riveted 
the  hold  of  Christianity  on  the  country,  and  to  this  day  their  names  are 
held  in  the  utmost  reverence.  They  are  said  to  have  come  from  "Rum," 
i.  e.,  from  Byzantium,  but  Weld  Blundell  says  "from  the  resemblance  of 
their  names  to  those  of  well-known  monasteries  in  Syria  have  been  proved 
to  be  members  of  that  Church  and  natives  of  that  country."  (Royal 
Chronicle,  p.  518.) 

The  kings  of  Aksum  in  their  inscriptions  in  the  fourth  and  fifth  centuries 
claim  to  be  kings  of  Aksum,  Himyar  (the  Homerites  or  Himyarites), 
Raidan,  Habashat  (the  Ethiopians),  the  Sabaeans,  of  Silhen,  of  Tsiyamo, 
of  Bega  and  of  Kasu.  This  claim  implies  possession  of  territory  on  both 
sides  of  the  Red  Sea,  but  much  of  it  was  soon  after  lost  by  them.  In  525 
a  king  of  Aksum,  named  Kaleb  in  the  native  records,  El-Esbaha  ("the 
blessed")  in  Greek  and  Arabic  chronicles,  organized  an  elaborate  expedi- 
tion against  the  king  of  the  Himyarites,  whom  he  conquered  and  killed.  In 
this  invasion  he  was  aided  by  ships  furnished  by  Justinian,  Emperor  of 
Byzantium.  The  Muhammedan  conquest  of  Arabia  soon  after  put  an  end 
to  all  the  Abyssinian  possessions  there,  and  their  later  conquest  of  Egypt 
in  the  middle  of  the  seventh  century  cut  the  Abyssinians  off  from  the 
civilized  world.  Gibbon  the  historian  has  remarked  that  "if  a  Christian 
power  had  been  maintained  in  Arabia  Mahomet  must  have  been  crushed 
in  his  cradle,  and  Abyssinia  would  have  prevented  a  revolution  which  has 
changed  the  whole  civil  and  religious  state  of  the  world."  And  referring 
to  the  isolation  of  the  Abyssinians  after  the  Muhammedan  conquest  of 
Egypt  he  says:  "Encompassed  by  the  enemies  of  their  religion,  the  Ethio- 
pians slept  for  nearly  a  thousand  years,  forgetful  of  the  world  by  whom 


4  THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

they  were  forgotten."  From  this  time  till  1270  the  history  of  the  kingdom 
of  Aksum  or  Abyssinia  is  shrouded  in  darkness.  There  is  a  brief  notice  of 
a  war  between  Abyssinia  and  Nubia  about  687,  and  at  the  end  of  the  tenth 
century  there  is  on  record  a  letter  to  George,  son  of  Zakarya,  king  of  Nubia, 
referring  to  the  oppression  of  the  Christian  population  by  the  usurping 
Jewish  queen  Judith  who  drove  the  Menelik  dynasty  from  northern  Abys- 
sinia and  established  the  line  of  Zague.  About  1270  the  Solomonic  line  was 
again  re-established  in  the  person  of  Yekuno  Amlak,  king  of  Shoa,  a  de- 
scendant of  the  king  driven  out  by  Judith,  with  the  title  of  Negusa  nagast 
za-Ityopya,  "King  of  kings  of  Ethiopia."  The  great  national  saint  Takla 
Haymanot  ("Plant  of  the  faith")  is  credited  with  having  brought  about 
the  restoration. 

The  search  for  the  kingdom  of  Prester  John,  reported  by  Marco  Polo, 
brought  the  Portuguese  into  contact  with  Abyssinia  in  the  closing  years  of  the 
fifteenth  century.  In  1490  Pedro  de  Covilham  and  Alfonso  de  Payva  were 
selected  to  make  the  search.  Payva  died  in  Cairo,  but  Covilham  reached 
Abyssinia,  where  he  remained  till  his  death.  He  appears  to  have  sent  back 
to  Portugal  some  information  about  the  country,  its  church,  etc.,  and  in 
1520  an  embassy  under  Father  Francisco  Alvarez  reached  the  country  and 
established  relations  with  the  Negus.  The  determined  attempts  of  the 
Portuguese  to  convert  the  Abyssinians  to  the  Catholic  Church  met  with 
fierce  opposition  from  the  native  clergy,  and  finally  in  1 634  all  Jesuits  and 
Roman  Catholics  were  expelled  from  the  country.  From  that  time  till 
1714  no  Europeans  were  allowed  into  Abyssinia.  Meanwhile  in  the  first 
half  of  the  sixteenth  century  Abyssinia  was  sore  beset  by  a  large  Muham- 
medan  army  from  the  south  under  the  Emir  of  Harrar,  Ahmed  ibn  Ibra- 
him el  Ghazi,  better  known  as  Gran,  i.  e.,  the  left-handed.  Between  1528 
and  1 540  he  overran  the  country,  burning,  destroying,  and  conquering  every- 
where. He  sacked  Aksum,  the  holy  city,  and  nearly  succeeded  in  extinguish- 
ing Christianity  and  establishing  Muhammedanism.  The  Negus  or  king  of 
Abyssinia  appealed  to  the  Portuguese,  who  sent  him  some  help  by  the 
aid  of  which  the  Christian  cause  was  victorious,  Gran  being  killed  in  battle 
in  1543.  In  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century  the  so-called  Solomonic 
dynasty  came  to  an  end,  and  Kasa  or  Kassai,  afterwards  known  as  Theodore 
after  defeating  several  of  the  native  princes  had  himself  crowned  as  Negus 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA  5 

of  Abyssinia  in  1  855.  He  reigned  prudently  at  first  but  soon  became 
extremely  tyrannous.  He  committed  suicide  in  1868  when  his  fortress  of 
Magdala  was  captured  by  the  British.  John,  an  under  king  of  Tigre,  was 
allowed  to  assume  the  throne  and  ruled  till  1889  when  he  was  killed  fight- 
ing the  Mahdi.  Menelik  of  Shoa  succeeded  and  reigned  till  1914.  Lidj 
Yeassu,  his  grandson,  succeeded,  and  by  the  influence  of  German  and 
Turkish  advisers  was  persuaded  at  the  beginning  of  the  Great  War,  to  be- 
come a  Muhammedan.  The  Abuna  at  once  excommunicated  him  and 
declared  him  deposed  from  the  throne.  In  the  civil  war  that  ensued 
Lidj  Yeassu  and  his  father  were  killed.  Zawditu,  daughter  of  the  late 
Menelik  II.,  is  the  nominal  empress,  but  the  Ras  Tafari  Makuennen, 
Prince  Regent,  a  well  educated  and  broad-minded  man,  is  the  actual  ruler. 

Ethiopic  or  lesana  Ge'ez  "tongue  of  the  emigrants"  is  closely  related  to 
the  ancient  Sabaean  of  Southern  Arabia,  but  that  does  not  mean  that  the 
latter  is  the  language  from  which  it  is  descended.  As  Noldeke  says:  "The 
historical  intercourse  between  the  Sabaeans  and  the  people  of  Axum  does  not 
prove  that  those  who  spoke  Ge'ez  were  simply  a  colony  from  Sabaea;  the 
language  may  be  descended  from  an  extinct  cognate  dialect  of  South  Arabia, 
or  it  may  have  arisen  from  a  mingling  of  several  such  dialects."  The  alpha- 
bet is  a  modification  of  the  Musnad  or  Himyaritic  alphabet,  and  diifers  from 
all  the  other  Semitic  alphabets  in  being  written  from  left  to  right.  It  con- 
sists of  twenty-six  consonantal  characters.  There  are  seven  vowels,  each  of 
which  is  attached  to  a  consonant,  and  as  the  language  is  never  written  without 
vowels  the  alphabet  is  in  fact  a  syllabary  of  182  characters,  or  counting  the 
numerals  and  certain  other  modifications,  and  the  additional  letters  required 
in  Amharic,  a  total  of  267  characters.  The  native  name,  Ge'ez,  is  usually 
explained  as  meaning  "free,"  though  more  probably  the  meaning  is  "migra- 
tion," "emigrants."  From  the  expression  "nation  of  Gaze"  (rafrQ  lOvog) 
in  the  Greek  inscription  at  Adulis  recorded  by  Cosmas  Indicopleustes,  the 
word  might  be  understood  as  the  ethnic  name  of  the  South  Arabian  emigrants. 
The  native  language  does  not  appear  to  have  been  used  for  literary  pur- 
poses till  some  time  after  the  introduction  of  Christianity  into  Abyssinia  in 
the  fourth  century.  The  earliest  Ethiopic  coins  have  Greek  legends  and 
the  earliest  monumental  records  of  Abyssinian  history  (1st  cent.  A.  D.) 
are  also  in  Greek.  The  many  Greek  and  Coptic  words  in  the  language 
were  introduced  under  the  influence  of  Coptic  missionaries.  The  lesana 
Ge'ez  ceased  to  be  spoken  about  the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth  century, 
being  suppressed  by  a  decree  of  Yekuno  Amlak,  but  like  Latin  in  the 


6 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Roman  Catholic  Church  it  still  exists  as  the  language  of  ritual,  for  which 
reason  it  acquired  the  name  of  lesana  mashaf,  "language  of  the  book."  It  is 
of  particular  importance  from  its  relationship  to  Arabic  and  for  the  light 
it  throws  on  the  morphology  and  lexicography  of  the  Semitic  languages. 
On  its  suppression  the  Amharic,  descendant  of  a  sister  language  of 
Ge'ez,  was  adopted  as  the  official  language,  and  so  became  the  lesana  negus y 
"language  of  the  king."  There  is  evidence,  however,  that  the  language 
was  in  official  use  much  earlier.  It  is  now  the  language  most  widely  spoken 
and  written  in  Abyssinia  and  next  to  Arabic  the  most  widely  spoken  of 
all  the  Semitic  languages.  The  first  specimen  of  the  grammar  was  published 
in  Achille  Venario's  Chaldeae  sev  aethiopcae  lingvae  institutiones,  published 
in  Rome  in  1 630,  p.  43-46. 

Tigre  is  the  principal  language  spoken  in  the  Italian  colony  of  Eritrea, 
but  is  spreading  very  rapidly  to  tribes  of  diiferent  nationality,  and  serves 
as  a  lingua  franca.  "It  is  of  great  philological  interest,  since  it  is  the  most 
archaic  of  the  present  Semito-Abyssinian  languages  and,  although  not  a 
direct  descendant  of  the  ancient  Ge'ez,  resembles  the  latter  more  than  the 
Tigrina,  which  is  directly  derived  from  Ge'ez,  and  since  it  is  almost  a  con- 
necting link  between  the  Asiatic  and  the  African  Semitic."  (Littmann.) 

"Tigrina  is  the  daughter  of  literary  Ethiopic,  or  Ge'ez,  and  is  spoken 
in  the  centre  of  the  ancient  kingdom  of  Aksum."  The  main  provinces  where 
it  is  used  are  Hamasen,  Dembalas,  Saraie,  Okkule,  Guzai,  Tigrai  (Tigre), 
and  Tambien.  The  largest  of  these  provinces  is  the  one  called  by  the 
inhabitants  themselves  Tigrai,  and,  in  literature  and  by  the  Amharas,  Tigre. 
With  the  Amharic  adjectival  termination  the  language  is  known  as  Tigrina. 

The  history  of  Ethiopic  literature  is  divided  by  Harden  into  four 
periods,  of  which  the  first,  "the  period  of  growth,"  dates  from  the  establish- 
ment of  Christianity  in  Abyssinia  in  the  fourth  century  and  lasted  for  almost 
three  centuries.  Then  followed  "a  period  of  darkness"  coinciding  with  the 
gap  in  the  historical  record,  lasting  till  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century. 
The  renaissance  which  followed  the  period  of  darkness  extended  from 
the  beginning  of  the  fourteenth  century  till  about  1430.  The  third  period, 
termed  the  "Golden  Age"  of  the  literature,  from  1430  to  1520.  The  wars 
with  the  Muhammedan  Arabs  and  the  Gallas  which  followed  between 
1525  and  1543  put  an  end  to  all  opportunity  or  desire  for  writing.  By 
their  ruthless  plundering  and  burning  of  the  churches  and  monasteries  many 
thousands  of  manuscripts  were  destroyed,  some  of  which  doubtless  would 
have  been  of  priceless  historical  value.  "The  end  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


7 


tury  saw  the  close  of  Ethiopic  literature  for  all  practical  purposes."  The 
existing  literature  consists  chiefly  of  translations,  in  earlier  times  from  Greek 
and  Coptic,  and  more  recently  from  Arabic.  There  is  no  trace  of  any  litera- 
ture anterior  to  the  Christian  era.  The  translations  from  Greek  have 
preserved  some  literature  of  interest  which  otherwise  would  have  been 
lost,  e.  g.,  The  Book  of  Enoch  and  The  Book  of  Jubilees.  The  translations 
from  Arabic  include  books  on  medicine,  jurisprudence  (e.  g.,  the  Fetha 
Nagast),  and  history.  Of  native  literature  there  is  an  abundance  as  shown  in 
the  following  list,  but  nothing  of  first  or  even  of  second  rank,  with  the 
exception  of  some  passages  here  and  there  in  different  works  and  the 
philosophical  essay  of  Zara  Yaqob.  With  these  exceptions  the  great  bulk 
of  the  native  literature  might  almost  be  described  as  an  ocean  of  dreary 
prose.  Various  kinds  of  poetry  were  cultivated,  religious,  warlike,  and 
satirical,  but  the  poetic  art  with  the  Abyssinians  is  even  yet  still  in  its 
infancy.  Prosody  and  meter  are  unknown,  their  verse  being  characterized 
merely  by  a  kind  of  rhyme. 

Within  recent  years  there  has  been  a  revival  of  the  literary  spirit,  a 
revival  fostered  and  encouraged  by  the  Regent,  Ras  Tafari  Makuennen. 
Some  years  ago  he  had  a  printing  press  imported  from  Germany  and  erected 
by  himself  in  his  own  grounds  at  Addis  Abeba.  It  is  worked  entirely 
by  Abyssinians  under  the  direction  of  an  Abyssinian,  about  thirty  men  being 
employed.  In  1925  the  Regent  founded  a  weekly  newspaper,  the  Birhanna 
Salam,  "Light  and  peace."  In  addition  to  printing  the  newspaper  several 
books  have  also  been  issued  from  the  same  press.  These  are  bound  on 
the  premises  with  machinery  imported  from  Great  Britain  and  operated 
by  Abyssinians.  There  is  also  a  studio  for  the  lithographic  and  photographic 
work  for  reproducing  the  necessary  illustrations.  The  Emperor  Menelik 
had  previously  founded  a  newspaper,  the  Aimer  o,  "Conscience,"  but  it 
was  dropped  after  some  time.  It  has  been  revived  as  an  opposition  sheet 
to  the  one  printed  by  the  Regent. 

Diverse  traditions  have  been  preserved  of  the  introduction  of  Christianity 
into  Abyssinia,  but  the  account  given  by  Ruflnus,  presbyter  of  Aquileia,  is 
the  one  most  generally  accepted.  According  to  Ruflnus  (Hist.  Ecc.  i.  9), 
who  assures  us  that  he  had  the  facts  from  /Edesius  himself,  Meropius,  a 
philosopher  of  Tyre,  made  a  journey  to  India,  taking  with  him  two  youths, 
his  nephews,  named  Frumentius  and  ^desius.  On  their  return  they  touched 
at  a  port  of  "India"  (i.  e.  Abyssinia)  on  the  Red  Sea  for  fresh  water  or 
other  necessaries.  It  so  happened  that  a  little  before  that  time  the  treaty 


8 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


between  the  Romans  and  the  "Indians"  1  had  been  violated.  The  Indians 
therefore  seized  Meropius  and  the  crew  of  his  ship  and  killed  them  all 
except  the  two  boys.  Moved  by  compassion  the  natives  spared  the  boys' 
lives  and  sent  them  as  a  gift  to  their  king,  ^desius,  the  younger  of  the 
two,  was  made  cup-bearer  at  the  royal  table,  and  Frumentius  became  the 
king's  secretary  and  custodian  of  the  royal  records  (scrinia).  When  the 
king  died  he  left  instructions  that  they  were  to  be  set  at  liberty,  but  the 
queen  begged  them  to  remain  and  undertake  the  charge  of  the  king's  son 
and  act  as  regents,  until  he  became  of  adult  age.  When  the  king  and 
his  brother  attained  the  age  of  manhood  and  possessed  the  throne 
as  co -rulers,  Frumentius  and  ^desius  obtained  liberty  to  return  to 
their  friends.  .^Edesius  went  to  Tyre  to  see  his  parents,  and  was  soon 
afterwards  ordained  to  the  priesthood  in  his  native  town.  Frumentius, 
on  the  other  hand,  fired  with  missionary  zeal,  went  to  Alexandria  and 
described  to  Athanasius,  the  bishop,  the  condition  of  affairs  in  "India" 
and  the  necessity  of  appointing  a  bishop  over  the  Christians  in  that  country. 
Athanasius  ordained  Frumentius  priest  and  bishop  of  India  since  he  was 
peculiarly  qualified  to  be  of  most  service  among  those  in  that  country. 
Frumentius  therefore  returned  to  Abyssinia  and  is  said  to  have  discharged 
his  episcopal  duties  so  admirably  that  he  became  an  object  of  universal 
admiration  and  was  revered  as  no  less  than  an  apostle,  and  named,  accord- 
ing to  the  native  record,  Abba  Salama,  "Father  of  Peace,"  2  the  title  still 
borne  by  the  Metropolitan  of  the  Abyssinian  Church.  Soon  after  Frumentius 
was  settled  in  his  see  the  emperor  Constantius  wrote  a  letter  to  Aezanes 


1  By  "Indians"  Rufinus  means  Abyssinians.  In  his  time  the  name  India  was  used  as  an  equivalent  of 
Ethiopia.  This  was  due  to  the  belief  of  the  period  that  Asia  and  Africa  were  joined  together  somewhere 
south  of  the  Indian  Ocean.  From  the  statement  of  Rufinus  that  Frumentius,  during  his  captivity,  was  led 
by  some  divine  impulse  to  make  enquiry  whether  there  were  any  Christians  among  the  Roman  merchants  who 
visited  or  resided  in  the  land,  and  to  give  them  authority  and  advice  to  erect  houses  of  prayer,  and  to  adopt 
all  necessary  methods  so  that  Christian  seed  might  spring  up  in  that  place,  we  may  infer,  I  think,  that  there 
was  already  some  spark  of  Christianity  in  the  land.  The  new  faith  would  doubtless  pass  down  through 
Nubia,  where  there  was  an  early  Christian  church,  and  Adulis,  the  seaport  of  the  Aksumite  kings  on  the 
Red  Sea,  was  an  important  mart  and  chief  trading  center  with  the  interior  of  Africa.  Cosmas  Indicopleustes 
(550  A.  D.)  has  preserved  a  copy  of  a  Greek  inscription  at  Adulis,  no  longer  extant,  which  shows  that 
Ptolemy  Euergetes  had  extended  his  Graeco-Egyptian  empire  to  that  place  (c.  246  B.  C),  and  the  Periplus 
maris  Erythraei  describes  a  king  of  Aksum,  Zoskales,  as  "well  versed  in  Greek  literature." 

2  The  account  given  by  Rufinus  is  reproduced  by  Socrates  (Hist  Ecc.  i.  19),  Theodoret  (Hist.  Ecc.  i.  22), 
and  by  Sozomen  (Hist.  Ecc.  ii.  24).  Socrates,  indeed,  translates  Rufinus  almost  word  for  word.  On  the  strength 
of  Rufinus'  statement  that  Athanasius  had  been  recently  ('nuper')  appointed  to  the  bishopric  of  Alexandria 
(326  A.  D.)  when  he  consecrated  Frumentius  it  has  been  assumed  that  the  consecration  took  place  c.  330, 
but  this  date  is  most  certainly  too  early.  Circa  355  is  perhaps  the  most  probable  date.  Could  the  statement 
of  Rufinus  be  understood  as  having  reference  to  the  second  restoration  of  Athanasius  in  347?  The  letter 
of  Constantius  (c.  356)  to  Aezanes  and  Sazanes,  the  co-rulers  of  Abyssinia,  would  seem  to  refer  to  the 
consecration  of  Frumentius  as  being  of  comparatively  recent  date.  The  letter  exists  only  in  the  Apologia  ad 
Constantius  of  Athanasius,  compiled  about  the  end  of  356  or  beginning  of  357,  and  was  most  probably 
written  after  the  third  deposition  of  Athanasius  in  356. 


ABBA  GREGORIUS 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


9 


and  Sazanes  against  him  and  asking  that  he  be  sent  back  to  Alexandria  be- 
cause he  had  been  advanced  to  his  present  rank  by  Athanasius,  a  man  "guilty 
of  ten  thousand  crimes,"  and  to  replace  him  by  Theophilus,  an  Arian.  The 
emperor's  request  met  with  no  success. 

Ever  since  the  time  of  Frumentius  the  Metropolitan  or  Abuna  of 
Abyssinia  has  been  a  Copt,  receiving  his  consecration  from  the  patriarch 
of  Alexandria.  Within  recent  years,  however,  the  Abyssinians  have  shown 
an  inclination  to  shake  off  their  ancient  ecclesiastical  subjection  to  Alexandria 
and  elect  their  own  Abuna.  It  will  be  interesting  to  note  their  procedure 
when  the  present  holder  of  the  office  dies.  Christianity  does  not  appear  to 
have  made  much  progress  at  first  and  it  was  a  century  later  at  the  least 
before  it  can  be  said  to  have  become  the  state  religion  in  the  reign  of  Ezana 
or  (Ta)zana. 

The  attention  of  European  scholars  was  first  drawn  to  the  Ethiopic 
language  in  1513  when  Potken  3  published  in  Rome  his  edition  of  the 
Psalter.  This,  the  first  book  printed  in  Europe  in  the  Ethiopic  language 
and  character,  contains,  in  addition  to  the  Psalter,  the  Song  of  Solomon  and 
certain  Biblical  hymns  and  prayers.  Another  edition  appeared  at  Cologne 
in  1518:  Psalterium  hebraice,  graece>  aethiopice  et  latine.  The  editio 
frincefs  of  the  Ethiopic  New  Testament,  in  two  volumes,  Rome,  1548-49, 
was  the  next  work  to  appear.  It  was  edited  by  three  monks  of  the  Abyssinian 
Convent  of  Santo  Stefano  dei  Mori  in  Rome,4  Tesfa  Sion,  Tensea  Waldus, 
and  Zaslaskus,  otherwise  Brothers  Peter,  Paul,  and  Bernardin,  with  the 
assistance  of  Paulus  Gualterius  Aretinus  and  Marianus  Victorius  Reatinus. 
The  New  York  Public  Library  possesses  a  copy  of  the  first  volume,  which 
is  described  at  length  in  the  list  following.  Four  years  later  appeared  the 
Chaldeae  sev  Aethiopcae  Ungvae  instituttones  by  Marianus  Victorius 
(Mariano  Vittorio),5  Romae,  M.D.L.II  (reprinted  in  1630),  the  first 
grammar  of  the  language  published.  Jacob  Wemmer  or  Wemmers  6  of 


8  Johann  Potken,  Provost  of  the  Church  of  St.  George  in  Cologne  in  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  is  said  to  have  been  well  versed  in  the  Oriental  languages.  But  little,  however,  appears  to  be 
known  of  him.  In  the  preface  to  his  edition  of  the  Psalter  he  describes  how  he  heard  certain  strangers  in 
Rome  reciting  sacred  hymns  in  which  he  recognized  the  names  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  the  Apostles,  and  certain 
saints.  On  enquiry  he  learned  that  they  came  from  Ethiopia,  and  his  curiosity  being  aroused  he  determined 
to  learn  their  language,  the  "lingua  Chaldea"  as  he  called  it.  Within  a  short  period  of  time  he  succeeded 
in  mastering  it  enough  to  enable  him  to  publish  the  Psalter  in  the  native  character. 

4  The  Convent  of  Santo  Stefano  dei  Mori  in  Rome,  the  first  home  of  Ethiopic  studies  in  Europe,  was 
established  in  1539.     (See  Rivista  degli  studi  orientali,  v.  9,  p.  460-461.) 
Successively  Bishop  of  Amerino  and  of  Rieti. 

"Jacob  Wemmer  or  Wemmers  was  born  in  Antwerp,  became  a  Carmelite  friar,  "linguarum  Orientalium 
peritissimus  fuit,"  and  learned  the  Ethiopic  language  from  Abyssinians  in  Rome.  He  died  in  1645.  A  short 
notice  of  him  and  a  list  of  his  works  is  given  in  the  Bibliotheca  Belgica,  sive  virorum  in  Belgio  vita 
scriptisque  illustrium  catalogus  by  Joannes  Franciscus  Foppens,  Bruxellis,  1739,  p.  544. 


10 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Antwerp  published  his  Lexicon  Aethiopicum  with  outlines  of  the  grammar 
in  1638,  a  work  described  by  Ludolf  as  "valde  mancum  et  imperfectum." 
Our  first  accurate  knowledge  of  the  Ethiopic  is  due  to  the  labors  of  the 
distinguished  scholar  just  mentioned,  Hiob  Ludolf,7  whose  lexicon  and 
grammar  laid  the  foundation  of  the  scientific  study  of  the  language. 
Edmund  CastelPs  Hepaglotton  (London,  1669)  made  frequent  use  of 
Ethiopic  in  the  grammatical  outlines  of  the  Semitic  languages  in  that 
work;  and  Theodor  Petraeus  and  Johann  Georg  Nisselius  edited  and  pub- 
lished several  Biblical  texts  between  1654  and  1661.  Johann  Michael 
Wansleben  8  besides  editing  the  first  edition  of  Ludolf 's  Ethiopic  lexicon 
contributed  to  the  volume  the  Latin  index,  the  Appendix  Aethiopico-Latina 
and  the  Liturgia  S.  Dioscori.  He  was  also  author  of  a  Conspectus  Aethio- 
plcarum  quae  ad  excudendum  par  eta  habebat  Wanslebius,  Paris,  1671,  and 
works  relating  to  Egypt  which  need  not  be  particularized  here.  Beyond 
these,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  Biblical  texts  by  Bishop  Laurence  9  and 


7  Hiob  Ludolf  or  Leutholf  was  born  at  Erfurt  on  the  15th  of  June,  1614.  After  studying-  philology  at 
the  Erfurt  Academy  and  at  Leyden,  he  travelled  in  Holland,  France,  England,  Denmark,  Sweden,  and 
Italy,  in  order  to  increase  his  knowledge  of  languages,  principally  Oriental,  for  which  he  showed  exceptional 
aptitude.  While  in  Italy  he  became  acquainted  with  a  learned  Abyssinian  scholar,  Abba  Gorgoryos  or 
Gregory  (his  portrait  is  here  reproduced  from  Ludolf's  Historia),  and  acquired  from  him  an  intimate 
knowledge  of  Ethiopic,  which  at  that  time  was  tolerably  well  understood  in  Abyssinia.  In  1652  he  entered 
the  service  of  the  Duke  of  Saxe-Gotha  in  which  he  continued  till  1678,  when  he  retired  to  Frankfort-on- 
Main.  In  1683  he  visited  England  with  the  view  of  promoting  a  scheme  for  the  establishment  of  trade 
with  Abyssinia,  but  his  efforts  were  unsuccessful,  chiefly  through  the  bigotry  and  ignorance  of  the 
heads  of  the  Abyssinian  Church.  Returning  to  Frankfort  in  1684  he  devoted  the  remainder  of  his  life  to 
literary  work  and  Ethiopic  studies.  In  1690  he  was  appointed  president  of  the  Collegium  Imperiale  Historicum, 
and  died  on  the  8th  of  April,  1704.  The  fruits  of  his  Ethiopic  studies  are  contained  in  the  following  works: 

(1)  Lexicon  Aethiopico-Latinum,   London,    1661;    second   edition    (greatly  enlarged),   Frankfort,  1699. 

(2)  Grammatica  Aethiopica,  London,  1661;  second  edition  (greatly  enlarged),  Frankfort,  1702.  (3)  Gram- 
matica  linguae  Amharicae,  Frankfort,  1698.  (4)  Lexicon  Amharico-Latinum,  Frankfort,  1698.  (5)  Hisioria 
Aethiopica,  Frankfort,  1681.  (6)  Ad  suam  historiam  Aethiopicam  .  .  .  commentarivs,  Frankfort,  1691;  with 
two  Appendixes,  1693—94.    (7)  Psalterium  Davidis  Aethiopice  et  Latine,  Frankfort,  1701. 

8  Johann  Michael  Wansleben  was  born  at  Sommerda,  Erfurt,  where  his  father  was  a  Lutheran  minister, 
on  the  1st  of  November,  1635,  and  died  on  the  12th  of  June  1679.  He  attached  himself  to  Ludolf  for  the 
purpose  of  learning  Oriental  languages  and  after  being  taught  Ethiopic  was  sent  to  London  by  Ludolf  to 
superintend  the  printing  of  the  first  edition  of  his  Ethiopic  lexicon  and  grammar.  While  in  England  Wansle- 
ben was  also  employed  by  Edmund  Castell,  the  great  English  Orientalist,  to  assist  in  compiling  his  Lexicon 
heptaglotton,  published  in  1669  as  a  supplement  to  the  Biblia  Sacra  Polyglotta  of  Walton.  Returning  to 
Germany  he  was  sent  by  Ernst,  Duke  of  Saxe-Gotha,  at  Ludolf's  suggestion,  to  visit  Abyssinia,  but  his 
bad  conduct  prevented  his  gaining  access  to  that  country.  He  returned  to  Europe,  and  in  1665  joined  the 
Church  of  Rome  as  a  Dominican  of  the  Convent  of  Minerva  in  Rome.  Sent  on  a  mission  to  France 
he  was  introduced  to  Colbert,  the  chief  minister  of  Louis  XIV.,  who  employed  him  to  make  a  second  voyage 
to  the  East,  with  instructions  to  penetrate  into  Abyssinia  and  to  purchase  all  the  Oriental  MSS.  he 
met  with.  He  spent  twenty  months  in  Cairo,  whence  he  transmitted  to  the  Royal  Library  of  France  334 
Arabic,  Turkish  and  Persian  MSS.  Unable  to  get  into  Abyssinia  he  was  recalled  by  Colbert,  and  his 
continued  irregular  conduct  prevented  his  obtaining  any  preferment.  As  a  consequence  he  was  reduced  to 
great  poverty  and  obliged  tc  sell  his  private  collection  of  Ethiopic  MSS.  for  a  trifling  sum  in  order  to 
obtain  the  means  of  subsistence.  His  last  days  were  spent  as  vicar  of  the  village  church  of  Bouron  near 
Fontainebleau. 

9  Richard  Laurence  (1760-1838),  archbishop  of  Cashel,  was  born  at  Bath,  England,  and  studied  at 
the  University  of  Oxford.  Late  in  life  he  took  up  the  study  of  Oriental  languages.  He  published  the 
Ascensio  Isaiae  Vatis  (1819),  Book  of  Enoch  the  Prophet  (1821,  other  editions,  1832,  1838),  and  the  first 
Book  of  Esdras  (1820). 


ETHIOPIA  AND  AMHARICA  1  1 

others,  little  of  importance  appeared  to  further  our  knowledge  of  the 
language  until  the  appearance  of  Dillmann's  Grammatik  der  athiopischen 
Sprache  in  1857  and  his  Lexicon  linguae  Aethiopicae  in  1865.  Since  his 
time  the  study  of  the  language  and  literature  has  made  great  advances,  and 
almost  all  that  is  of  importance  in  the  literature  has  been  edited  or  trans- 
lated into  one  or  other  of  the  principal  European  languages.  In  England  the 
Rev.  R.  H.  Charles  has  published  critical  editions  of  the  Book  of  Enoch, 
the  Book  of  Jubilees ,  etc. ;  Sir  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge  of  the  British  Museum 
(and  his  staff),  has  published  many  important  texts,  the  titles  of  which 
are  recorded  below ;  the  Rev.  J.  M.  Harden  has  given  us,  for  the  first  time, 
a  complete  translation  of  the  Didascalia  and  an  all  too  brief  history  of 
Ethiopic  Christian  literature;  whilst  Armbruster's  Initia  Amharica  is  a 
monumental  work  of  the  highest  scholarship.  Italy  since  her  acquisition 
of  the  colony  of  Eritrea  has  greatly  encouraged  Abyssinian  studies,  and 
in  the  persons  of  Prof.  Ignazio  Guidi,  Commendatore  Conti  Rossini,  and 
Dr.  Francesco  da  Bassano,  has  made  many  and  valuable  contributions  to 
Ethiopic  and  Amharic  and  related  dialects:  to  the  first  scholar  we  are 
indebted  for  the  critical  edition  and  translation  of  the  Fetha  Nagast,  the 
law-book  of  Abyssinia  in  matters  ecclesiastical,  civil,  and  criminal.  To 
France  we  are  indebted  for  the  two  important  series  of  Patrologia  Orientalis 
and  the  Corpus  Scriptorum  Christianorum  Orientalium,  both  of  which 
include  many  of  the  most  important  and  valuable  of  the  Ethiopic  texts, 
while  of  her  Ethiopic  scholars  of  note  may  be  mentioned  Zotenberg,  Bas- 
set, Grebaut,  Perruchon,  Chaine,  and  Guerinot.  Boris  Aleksandrovich 
Turayev  in  Russia  and  Isaak  Waynberg  of  Poland  also  deserve  honorable 
mention  in  the  ranks  of  Ethiopic  scholars.  The  Portuguese  scholar  Fran- 
cisco Maria  Esteves  Pereira  has  also  published  critical  editions  of  many 
important  texts  of  which  special  mention  may  be  made  of  his  Chronica  de 
Susenyos,  rei  de  Ethiopia.  In  Germany,  Dillmann,  besides  his  grammar 
and  lexicon,  published  critical  editions  of  the  Octateuch  and  several  other 
works ,  Carl  Bezold  has  published  the  text  and  translation  of  the  Kebra 
Nagast,  "Glory  of  the  Kings,"  10  the  historical  romance  so  highly  esteemed 
by  the  Abyssinians  as  an  accurate  ( !  )  record  of  the  history  of  their  kings  from 
the  time  of  Solomon ;  Flemming  has  published  a  critical  text  of  the  Book 
of  Enoch  based  on  a  collation  of  fourteen  MSS. ;  Praetorius,  but  lately 


10  The  Abyssinians  attach  great  value  to  this  work.  The  copy  of  the  manuscript,  written  in  the  reign 
of  'Iyasu  I.,  /\.  D.  1682—1706,  taken  by  the  British  at  the  capture  of  Magdala,  was  restored  to  Prince  Kasa, 
subsequently  crowned  as  King  John,  on  the  14th  December  1872.  It  is  now  in  the  Monastery  of  Debra 
Libanos  and  still  has  the  inscription  attached  to  it  stating  the  conditions  under  which  it  was  returned. 


12 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


deceased,  published  his  great  work  on  the  Amharische  Sprache  in  1 877,  ana 
grammars  of  Ethiopic,  Tigrina,  Galla,  etc.;  and  lastly,  Enno  Littmann 
has  enriched  us  with  many  texts  and  critical  studies  in  addition  to  his  volume 
on  Sabaische,  Griechische  und  Altabessinische  Inschriften,  Berlin,  1913. 
Within  recent  years  the  Semitic  scholars  of  Scandinavia  have  taken  a 
prominent  part  in  the  furtherance  of  Ethiopic  studies  and  the  names  of 
Fries,  Kolmodin,  and  Zettersteen  are  deserving  of  record.  In  the  United 
States  the  study  of  Ethiopic  is  of  quite  recent  growth  and  one  of  the  first, 
if  not  really  the  first,  to  draw  particular  attention  to  the  language  and  its 
literature  is  the  Rev.  Dr.  George  Henry  Schodde,  a  pupil  of  Dillmann's. 
He  contributed  several  articles  to  periodicals  on  the  subject,  and  in  1882 
published  at  Andover  an  English  translation  of  the  Book  of  Enoch,  and  six 
years  later  a  translation  of  the  Book  of  Jubilees.  Prof.  E.  J.  Goodspeed  of 
the  University  of  Chicago  has  edited  and  translated  The  Conflict  of  Severus 
Patriarch  of  Antioch  as  a  fascicule  of  the  fourth  volume  of  the  Patrologia 
Orientalis.  In  addition  he  has  published  several  smaller  texts  with  trans- 
lations in  the  American  Journal  of  Semitic  Languages  and  Literatures.  Prof. 
William  Hoyt  Worrell  has  devoted  special  attention  to  Abyssinian  magic 
and  has  published  (in  German)  an  exhaustive  study  of  the  magical  rolls. 
Prof.  S.  A.  B.  Mercer  has  published  The  Ethiopic  Liturgy:  Its  Sources, 
Development  and  Present  Form,  an  elementary  Ethiopic  Grammar,  based  on 
Chaine,  and  translations  of  several  of  the  Anaphorae  of  the  Ethiopic  Church. 


THE  LIST 


Order  of  Arrangement 


Bibliography 

Periodicals  and  Collections 

History  of  Ethiopic  Language  and  Literature 

Ethiopic  Language 

Ethiopic  Literature 

History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records) 

Inscriptions 

Bible. 

Apocrypha  and  Pseudepigraphia 


Theology  and  Biblical  Commentary 
Liturgies,  Rituals,  and  Prayers 
Magical  Prayers 
Lives  of  Saints 

Amharic  Language  and  Literature 
Gurague  Language  and  Literature 
Harari  Language  and  Literature 
Tigre  Language  and  Literature 
Tigrina  Language  and  Literature 


Bibliography 


Abbadie,  Antoine  Thompson  d\  Cata- 
logue raisonne  de  manuscrits  ethiopiens 
appartenant  a  Antoine  d'Abbadie.  Paris: 
a  rimprimerie  imperiale,  mdccclix.  2  p.l., 
xv,  235(1)  p.  4°.  f*  OAB 

This  collection  formed  the  basis  of  that  of  the 
Bibliotheque  nationale. 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gclchrte  Anseigen  (by 
A.  Dfillmann]),  Gottingen,  1859,  Bd.  2,  p.  1889- 
1908,  *DF;  Dublin  review,  London,  1862,  p.  133-144, 
•DA. 

An  entirely  new  set  of  Ethiopic  type  was  prepared 
for  this  volume  under  the  direction  of  the  author. 
They  are  modelled  after  the  best  forms  of  the  most 
approved  period  of  Ethiopic  calligraphy. 

 See  also  Conti  Rossini,  Carlo. 

Basset,  Rene  Marie  Joseph.  Rapport  sur 
les  etudes  ethiopiennes,  1887-1891.  (In  his: 
Rapport  sur  les  etudes  berberes,  ethiopi- 
ennes et  arabes,  1887-1891.  Woking:  Ori- 
ental University  Institute,  1892.  8°.  p.  5- 
10.)  *OAA 

Included  in  the  second  volume  of  Transactions 
of  the  statutory  ninth  International  Congress  of 
Orientalists,  London,  1891. 

Bibliotheque  nationale,  Paris.  —  Departe- 
ment  des  manuscrits.  Catalogue  des  manu- 
scrits ethiopiens  (gheez  et  amharique)  de  la 
Bibliotheque  nationale.  [Paris:  Imprimerie 
nationale,  1877.]  v,  283  p.,  2  1.   f°.     f*  OAB 

"Avertissement"  signed:  H.  Zotenberg. 
Describes  one  hundred  and  seventy  mss. 

Blanchart,  J.  Note  sur  les  manuscrits  rap- 
portes  d'Abyssinie  par  la  mission  Duchesne- 
Fournet.  10  pi.   (In:  Jean  Duchesne-Four- 


net,  Mission  en  fithiopie,  1901-1903.  Paris, 
1909.  4°.  tome  1,  p.  289-440.)  BLM 

Eight  mss.  are  described  and  a  short  analysis  is 
given  of  seven.  A  photograph  of  the  first  page  of 
each  ms.  is  included  in  the  accompanying  plates.  Of 
the  eighth  ms.,  an  eighteenth  century  redaction  of  the 
Dabra  Libanos  version  of  Gadla  Takla  Haymanot,  a 
full  French  translation  is  given,  p.  340-431. 

In  addition,  p.  294-306  contain  the  text,  and  p. 
307-318,  the  translation,  of  the  poem  in  honor  of  the 
Negus  Menilek  by  Walda  Sellase. 

Bodleian  Library,  Oxford.  Catalogus 
codicum  manuscriptorum  Bibliothecae  Bod- 
leianae  Oxoniensis.  Pars  VII.  Codices 
Aethiopici.  Digessit  A.  Dillmann.  Oxonii: 
e  Typographeo  Academico,  m.dccc.xlviii. 
2  p.l.,  87  p.  4°.  *OAB 

Thirty-five  manuscripts  described. 

British  Museum.  —  Department  of  Manu- 
scripts. Catalogus  codicum  manuscriptorum 
orientalium  qui  in  Museo  Britannico  asserv- 
atur.  Pars  tertia,  Codices  /Ethiopicos 
amplectens.  London:  Impensis  Curatorum 
Musei  Britannici,  mdcccxlvii.  viii  p.,  1  1.,  78 
p.,  1  1.  f  °.  ft*  OAB 

Compiled  by  A.  Dillmann;  edited  by  Sir  F.  Mad- 
den. 

Describes  eighty-two  codices. 

  Catalogue  of  the  Ethiopic  manu- 
scripts in  the  British  Museum  acquired 
since  the  year  1847.  By  W.  Wright.  Printed 
by  order  of  the  Trustees.  London:  Gilbert 
and  Rivington,  1877.  xiii(i)  p.,  1  L,  366  p.. 
13  pi.  (facsim.)  f°.  ff*  OAB 

Contains  a  description  of  308  codices,  the  greater 
number  of  which  were  acquired  at  Magdala  in  1868. 

Brockelmann,  Karl.  Katalog  der  oriental- 
ischen  Handschriften  der  Stadtbibliothek  zu 


[  13] 


14 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Bibliography,  continued. 

Hamburg.  Teil  1.  Hamburg:  Otto  Meiss- 
ner,  1908.  4°.  *  OAB 

Athiopische  Handschriften,  p.  178-185. 
Eight  manuscripts  described. 

Cerulli,  E.  Recenti  pubblicazioni  abissine 
in  amarico.  (Oriente  moderno.  Roma,  1926. 
4°.  anno  6,  p.  555-557.)  *  OAA 

Chaine,  Marius.  Catalogue  des  manu- 
scrits  ethiopiens  des  bibliotheques  et  musees 
de  Paris,  des  departements  et  de  collections 
privees.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1914.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  9,  p.  3-16,  245-265.) 

*OAA 

I.  Bibliotheque  de  1'Institut.  n.  Bibliotheque 
Saint-Genevieve.  ill.  Bibliotheque  du  Museum  d'his- 
toire  naturelle.  iv.  Musee  ethnographique  du  Troca- 
dero.  v.  Bibliotheque  de  l'£cole  des  langues  orientales 
vivantes.  vi.  Bibliotheque  d'Aix-en-Provence.  vn. 
Bibliotheque  d'Arras.  viii.  Bibliotheque  de  Besanqon. 
ix.  Bibliotheque  de  M.  Duchesne-Fournet.  x.  Bibli- 
otheque de  M.  Marcel  Cohen.  xi.  Bibliotheque  de  M. 
Hugues  Le  Roux.  xii.  Bibliotheque  de  la  Congre- 
gation de  la  Mission. 

  Catalogue  des  manuscrits  ethiopiens 

de  la  collection  Antoine  d'Abbadie.  Paris: 
Imprimerie  nationale,  1912.  x,  170  p.  8°. 
(Bibliotheque  nationale.  —  Departement  des 
manuscrits.)  *  OAB 

  Catalogue  des  manuscrits  ethiopiens 

de  la  collection  Mondon-Vidailhet.  Paris: 
Ernest  Leroux,  1913.  xiv,^  69(1)  p.  8°. 
(Bibliotheque  nationale. — Departement  des 
manuscrits.)  *  OAB 

p.  1-16:  Manuscrits  geez.  p.  17-64:  Manuscrits 
amharique. 

  Inventaire  sommaire  des  manuscrits 

ethiopiens  de  Berlin  acquis  depuis  1878. 
(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1912. 
8°.  serie  2,  tome  7,  p.  45-68.)  *  OAA 

Describes  eighty  mss. 

  Repertoire   des   salam  et  malke'e 

contenus  dans  les  manuscrits  ethiopiens  des 
bibliotheques  d'Europe.  (Revue  de  l'Orient 
chretien.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8, 
p.  183-203,  337-357.)  *  OAA 

"Le  present  travail,  corame  son  titre  1'indique,  est 
un  simple  repertoire  des  principales  poesies  ethio- 
piennes,  designees  sous  le  nom  de  salam  et  malke'e. 
11  a  un  but  tout  pratique:  celui  d'aider  a  l'identifica- 
tion  de  ces  pieces  repandues  en  tres  grand  nombre 
dans  les  manuscrits;  il  ne  vise  nullement  a  jeter  un 
nouveau  jour  sur  1'art  et  la  science  de  la  poetique 
qui  les  a  inspirees." 

Cohen,  Marcel  Samuel  Raphael.  Rapport 
sur  une  mission  linguistique  en  Abyssinie 
(1910-1911).  Paris:  Imprimerie  nationale, 
1912.  1  p.L,  80  p.  map.  8°.  (Nouvelles 
archives  des  missions  scientifiques  et  lit— 
teraires...  publie  sous  les  auspices  du 
Ministere  de  l'instruction  publique  et  des 
beaux-arts.  nouv.  serie,  fasc.  6.) 

*  EN  (France) 

Etudes  linguistiques.  i.  fithiopien  ancien  (Ge'ez. 
Acquisitions  de  manuscrits,  ge'ez  et  amhariques).  II. 
Amharique  (Diffusion  de  l'amharique.  Frontieres 
linguistiques     Divisions  dialectales.    Amharique  com- 


mun.  Dialecte  du  Choa).  in.  Dialectes  ethiopiens 
nqn  amhariques  (Gourague).  iv.  Langues  cha- 
mitiques  (Galla.   Langues  sidama.   Langues  agaw). 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Le  lingue  e  lettera- 
ture  semitiche  d'Etiopia.  (Oriente  moderno. 
Roma,  1922.  4°.  anno  1,  1921-22,  p.  38^48, 
169-176.)  *  OAA 

Issued  separately  under  the  title:  Le  Lingue  e 
letterature  semitiche  d'Abissinia.   Roma,  1921. 

 Manoscritti  ed  opere  abissine  in  Eu- 

ropa;  (Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendi- 
conti,  Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e 
filologiche.  Roma,  1899.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  8, 
p.  606-637.)  *  ER 

Includes  Amharifina,  p.  636-637;  and  Tigray,  p. 

637. 

A  conspectus  of  all  the  known  Ge'ez,  Amharic, 
and  Tigray  mss.  known  to  exist  in  Europe. 

  I  manoscritti  etiopici  della  missione 

cattolica  di  Cheren.  (Reale  accademia  dei 
Lincei.  Rendiconti,  Classe  di  scienze  mo- 
rali, storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1904.  8°. 
serie  5,  v.  13,  p.  233-255,  261-286.)      *  ER 

Describes  thirty-five  mss.  in  this  collection. 

 Notice  sur  les  manuscrits  ethiopiens 

de  la  collection  d'Abbadie,  (Journal  asi- 
atique.  Paris,  1912-15.  8°.  serie  10,  tome 
19,  p.  551-578;  tome  20,  p.  5-72,  449-494; 
serie  11,  tome  2,  p.  5-64;  tome  6,  p.  189-238, 
445-493.)  *  OAA 

Reviewed  in  JEthwps  (by  Sylvain  Grebaut),  Paris, 
1922,  annee  1,  p.  16. 

"Voici  un  catalogue  de  tres  grande  valeur... 
M.  C.  R.  a  done  mis  entre  les  mains  des  orientalistes 
un  instrument  de  travail  de  pout  premier  ordre." 

  Rapport  sur  le  progres  des  etudes 

ethiopiennes  depuis  le  dernier  congres. 
(Congres  international  des  orientalistes. 
Paris,  mdcccxcviii.  Actes  du  onzieme  con- 
gres, quatrieme  section,  p.  27-66.)       *  OAA 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
See  under  Bodleian  Library,  Oxford;  and 
British  Museum. 

Dorn,  Johannes  Albrecht  Bernhard. 
Ueber  die  aethiopischen  Handschriften  der 
offentlichen  Kaiserl.  Bibliothek  zu  St.- 
Petersbourg.  (Academie  imperiale  des  sci- 
ences de  Saint-Petersburg.  Bulletin  scien- 
tifique.  Saint-Petersbourg,  1838.  4°.  tome 
3,  col.  145-151.)  *QCB 

Ewald,  Georg  Heinrich.  Ueber  die  aethi- 
opischen Handschriften  zu  Tubingen.  (Zeit- 
schrift  fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes. 
Bonn,  1844.  8°.  Bd.  5,  p.  164-201.)     *  OAA 

 Ueber  eine  zweite  Sammlung  aethi- 
opischen Handschriften  in  Tubingen. 
(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1847.  8°.  Bd.  1,  p.  1- 
43.)  *OAA 

Contents:  I.  Biblische  Bucher:  (1)  Sirakh,  (2) 
Taamra  Jasus.  II.  Kirkliche  Werke:  (1)  Haim- 
anota  Abau,  (2)  Tagsafsa  baeta  Christijan,  (3) 
Philexios,  (4)  A'mada  Mistir,  (5)  Snksar,  (6)  Gadela 
Georgis,  (7)  Drsana  Michael,  (8)  Basilios,  (9)  Maf- 


ETHIOPLCA  AND  AMHARICA 


Bibliography,  continued. 

schafa  Gnzat.  ill.  Dichterische  Werke:  (1)  Egziab- 
chaer  nagsa,  (2)  Organona  Marjam,  (3)  Mavaseet. 
iv.  Geschichte  und  Sprachwerke:  (1)  Savasev  (audi 
Suaso  genannt). 

A  description  of  the  collection  of  Ethiopic  mss. 
procured  in  Abyssinia  by  Rev.  Dr.  Krapf  and  sent 
by  him  to  Tubingen.  Pages  16-21  give  a  translation 
of  the  "Tomar-Buch"^  (Masshafa  Tomar),  with  the 
threats  and  promises  in  the  letter  somewhat  abbrevi- 
ated. See  also  note  by  Ewald  on  the  origin  of  the 
work  on  p.  337-338  of  same  volume. 

Flemming,  Johannes.  Die  neue  Samm- 
lung  abessinischen  Handschriften  auf  der 
Koniglichen  Bibliothek  zu  Berlin.  (Zentral- 
blatt  fur  Bibliothekswesen.  Leipzig,  1906. 
8°.  Bd.  23,  p.  7-21.)  *  HA 

i.  Bibel  einschliesslich  der  Apokryphen  und  Ex- 
egese.  [I.  Werke  fur  den  gottesdienstlichen  Gebrauch. 
in.  Heiligleben.  iv.  Theologie.  v.  Sprachliches,  Ver- 
mischtes. 

These  mss.  were  procured  for  the  Berlin  Library 
during  the  German  expedition  to  Abyssinia. 

Fumagalli,  Giuseppe.  Bibliografia  etio- 
pica.  Catalogo  descrittivo  e  ragionato  degli 
scritti  pubblicati  dalla  invenzione  della 
stampa  fino  a  tutto  il  1891  intorno  alia  Etio- 
pia  e  regioni  limitrofe.  Milano:  Ulrico 
Hoepli,  1893.  xi,  288  p.  8°.  BLK 

"Opera  compilata  sotto  gli  auspicii  della  Societa 
geografica  italiana  e  della  Societa  d'esplorazione  com- 
merciale  africana." 

Reviewed  in  Giornalc  della  Societa  asiatica  italiana 
(by  I.  Guidi),  Roma,  1892,  v.  6,  p.  217-218,  *OAA; 
Centralblatt  fiir  Bibliothekswesen  (bv  A.  Fischer), 
Leipzig,  1894,  Bd.  11,  p.  229-236,  *HA;  Literarischcs 
Centralblatt  (by  A.  S[ocin]),  Leipzig,  1893,  Jahrg. 
1893,  col.  753,  NAA. 

Goldschmidt,  Lazarus.  Die  abessinischen 
Handschriften  der  Stadtbibliothek  zu  Frank- 
furt am  Main  (Ruppell'sche  Sammlung). 
Nebst  Anhangen  und  Auszugen  verzeichnet 
und  beschrieben.  Berlin:  S.  Calvary  &  Co., 
1897.  iv,  106  p.,  1  1.  8°.  "  *OAB 

  Bibliotheca  aethiopica;  vollstaend- 

iges  Verzeichnis  und  ausfuerliche  Beschrei- 
bung  saemmtlicher  aethiopischer  Druck- 
werke.  Leipzig:  Verlag  von  Eduard  Pfeif- 
fer,  1893.  2  p.l.,  63  p.  8°.         *  OAC  p.v.50 

A  description  of  all  the  Ethiopic  texts  printed 
previous  to  1892. 

Goodspeed,  Edgar  Johnson.  An  Ethiopic 
manuscript  of  John's  gospel.  (American 
journal  of  Semitic  languages  and  literatures. 
Chicago,  1904.  8°.  v.  20,  p.  182-185.)  *  OBA 

The  manuscript  is  in  the  Newberry  Library,  Chi- 
cago. 

 Ethiopic  manuscripts  from  the  collec- 
tion of  Wilberforce  Eames.  (American  jour- 
nal of  Semitic  languages  and  literatures. 
Chicago,  1904.  8°.  v.  20,  p.  235-244.)  *  OBA 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Le  ms.  ethiopien  n°  5 
du  Trocadero.  (/Ethiops.  Paris,  1922.  8°. 
annee  1,  p.  11.)  *  OED 

  Les  mss.  ethiopiens  de  M.  N.  Ber- 

gey.  (^thiops.  Paris,  1922.  8°.  annee  1, 
p.  12-14.)  *  OED 

1.  Weddase-Maryam.  2.  Psaumes,  cantiques  des 
Prophetes  et  Cantique  des  cantiques. 


15 

 Manuscrits  ethiopiens  appartenant  a 

M.  N.  Bergey.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1920/21.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  2,  p.  426- 
442.)  *  OAA 

I.  Le  Weddase-Maryam.   II.  Weddase  wa-Genay. 

  Les  manuscrits  ethiopiens  de  M.  £. 

Delorme.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1912-19.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  7,  p.  113- 
132;  tome  9,  p.  17-23,  174-182,  347-357;  tome 

10,  p.  82-91;  serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  137-147.) 

*OAA 

1.  Martyre  de  saint  Cyriaque,  de  sainte  Juliette,  et 
de  leurs  compagnons.  Weddase  'Amlak,  Prieres  pour 
chaque  jour  de  la  semaine.  2.  Introduction  aux 
Quatre  fivangiles.  3.  Traite  d'fivagrius  sur  les  huit 
mauvaises  passions  [1.  LTntemperance.  2.  L'Avarice. 
3.  La  yaine  gloire.  4.  L'Orgueil.  5.  La  luxere.  6. 
La  colere.  7.  La  peur.  8.  La  souffrance  du  cceur 
(la  vengeance)].  4.  Douze  melanges.  5.  L'Hexameron 
d'fipiphane  de  Chypre. 

 Recherches  philologiques  en  fithi- 

opie  pour  le  Bibliotheque  nationale.  (Journal 
asiatique.  Paris,  1926.  8°.  tome  209,  p.  170- 
172.)  *OAA 

On  additions  recently  made  to  the  Vatican  collec- 
tion of  Ethiopic  mss. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Abissinia,  Ge'ez,  Amarico, 
Tigrino,  lingue  cuscitiche,  Somalo.  (Rivista 
degli  studi  orientali.  Roma,  1910.  8°.  v.  3, 
p.  154-165.)  *OAA 

Hackspill,  L.  Die  athiopische  Evange- 
lieniibersetzung  (Math.  i-x.).  (Zeitschrift 
fur  Assvriologie.    Weimar,  1896.   8°.  Bd. 

11,  p.  117-196,  367-388.)  *  OCL 

Hackspill  concludes  from  his  examination  of  this 
text  that  the  Ethiopic  version  of  the  Gospels  was 
(c.  500)  made  from  a  Syro-occidental  text,  and  that 
this  original  translation  is  represented  by  Cod.  Paris, 
^Eth.  32;  whereas  most  mss.  and  all  printed  editions 
contain  a  text  influenced  by  the  Alexandrian  Vulgate 
and  show  traces  of  Arabic. 

Harris,  Sir  William  Cornwallis.  Cata- 
logue of  extant  mss.  in  the  Ethiopic  and 
Amharic  tongues.  (In  his:  The  Highlands 
of  /Ethiopia.  London:  Longman,  Brown, 
Green,  and  Longmans,  1844.  8°.  v.  3,  p. 
393-396.)  BLL 

This  is  a  catalogue  of  the  Krapf  collection  now  in 
the  University  of  Tubingen. 

Ewald  says  the  list  "enthalt  aber  eine  solche  Fluth 
der  entstellendsten  Druckfehler,  dass  es  nur  von  einem 
ganz  geubten  Sachkenner  zu  gebrauchen  ist." 

  Verzeichniss  vorhandener  Hand- 
schriften im  (Alt-)  Aethiopischen  (Gooz) 
und  im  Amharischen.  (In  his:  Gesandt- 
schaftsreise  nach  Shoa  und  Aufenthalt  in 
Siidabyssinien,  1841-1843.  Stuttgart  und 
Tubingen,  1846.  8°.  Abtheilung  2,  Anhange, 
p.  56-63.)  BLL 

Hottinger,  Johann  Heinrich.  De  libris 
/Ethiopicis.  (In  his:  Promtuarium;  sive, 
Bibliotheca  orientalis.  Heidelbergae:  Typis 
Adriani  Wyngaerden,  mdcliix.  4°.  p.  318- 
328.)  *  OAC 

p.  320-328:  Epistola  Iobi  Ludolfi  de  libris  Habes- 
sinorum  ad  clariss.  Virum  Johannem  Henricvm  Hot- 
tingervm. 


16 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Bibliography,  continued. 

Imperatorskaya  Publichnaya  Bibliotheka, 

St.  Petersburg.  Catalogue  des  manuscrits 
et  xylographes  orientaux  de  la  Bibliotheque 
imperiale  publique  de  St.  Petersbourg.  St. 
Petersbourg:  Imprimerie  de  l'Academie  im- 
periale des  sciences,  1852.  4°.  *  OAB 

Manuscrits  ethiopiens,  p.  549-558. 

Italy.  —  Ministero  dell'  Istruzione  Pub- 
blica.  Cataloghi  dei  codici  orientali  di  al- 
cune  biblioteche  d'ltalia...  Firenze,  1878- 
11904].  8°.  *OAB 

Issued  as  fascicolo  1-7. 

p.  55-81:  Ignazio  Guidi.  Catalogo  dei  codici  si- 
riaci,  arabi,  etiopici,  turchi  e  copti  della  Biblioteca 
Angelica  di  Roma.  (Ethiopic,  p.  73-74.) 

Konigliche   Bibliothek  zu   Berlin.  Die 

Handschriften-Yerzeichniss  der  Konig- 
lichen  Bibliothek  zu  Berlin.  Dritter  Band. 
Verzeichniss  der  abessinischen  Handschrif- 
ten  von  A.  Dillmann.  Berlin:  Konigliche 
Akademie  der  YYissenschaften,  1878.  1  p.l., 
viii,  85  p.,  3  facsims.  4°.  ft*  OAB 

Kokovtzov,  P.  Zametka  ob  efiopskich 
rukopisyach  Imp.  S.-Peterburgskoi  Pu- 
blitchnoi  Biblioteki.  (Imperatorskoye  Russ- 
koye  Arkheologicheskoye  Obshchestvo. 
Zapiski  Yostochnavo  Otdeleniya.  S. -Peter- 
burg,  1889.  t.  4,  p.  106-111.)  *QCB 

On  Ethiopic  mss.  in  St.  Petersburg  Public  Library. 

Kolmodin,  Johan  Adolf.  Abessinische 
Biicherverzeichnisse.  (Aus  den  Inventaren 
der  Zion  von  Aksum  und  einiger  anderen 
Kirchen.)  (Le  Monde  oriental.  Uppsala, 
1916.  8°.  v.  10,  p.  241-255.)  *  OAA 

  Sur  la  date  du  ms.  ethiopien  d'Ab- 

badie  105.  (Le  Monde  oriental.  Uppsala, 
1916.  8°.  v.  10,  p.  163-164.)  *  OAA 

Laing,  David.  A  brief  notice  of  an  ancient 
ms.  of  the  four  Gospels,  brought  from 
Abyssinia,  and  presented  to  the  Society 
(with  other  mss.);  by  Captain  Charles 
M'Inroy.  1  facsim.  (Society  of  Antiquaries 
of  Scotland.  Proceedings.  Edinburgh,  1871. 
8°.  v.  8.  p.  52-55.)  CPA 

Dr.  Laing  considers  the  date  of  the  ms.  as  "not 
later  than  the  end  of  the  fourteenth  century,"  but 
doubtless  it  is  of  later  date.  It  was  written  by  a 
scribe  named  Anurios. 

LeLong,  Jacques.  De  versione  Aethi- 
opica.  (In:  Bibliotheca  sacra  post  CI.  cl. 
v.  v.  Jacobi  Le  Long  et  C.  F.  Boerneri  ite- 
ratas  cvras  ordine  disposita,  emendata, 
svppleta,  continuata  ab  Andrea  Gottlieb 
Masch.  Halae:  Svmtibvs  Joannis  Jac.  Ge- 
baveri,  mdcclxxxi.  4°.  pars  2,  v.  1,  p.  HO- 
IS?.) *  YI 

Littmann,  Enno.  Die  athiopischen  Hand- 
schriften  im  griechischen  Kloster  zu  Je- 
rusalem. (Zeitschrift  fur  Assvriologie.  Ber- 
lin, 1900.  8°.  Bd.  15,  p.  133-161.)     *  OCL 

I.  Aragawi  Manfasawl.  Philoxenos.  Mar  Isaak. 
II.  Chrysostomus.    Cyrillus.    in.  Fragmente  verschie- 


dener  Handschriften.  iv.  Psalter  und  Weddase  Mary- 
am.  v.  Aragawi  Manfasawl.  vi.  Arganona  Wed- 
dase. vii.  Psalter.  Die  biblische  Hymnen.  Gebete. 
viii.  Basilius.  ix.  Psalter.  Weddase  Maryam.  x. 
Arganona  Weddase.  xi.  Evangelium  Johannis  (und 
amharische  Priesterordnung).  xn.  Psalter.  Biblische 
Hymnen.  XIII.  Haimanota  Abau  (amharisch).  xiv. 
Psalter.  Biblische  Hymnen.  xv.  Psalter.  Die  biblische 
Hymnen.  Weddase  Maryam.  xvi.  Gebete  an  Tesus 
und  Maria,  xvn.  Morgengebete.  Lobgesange  an  Maria 
und  Jesus,  xvin.  Morgengebete  und  Responsen.  xix. 
Gebete  an  Maria. 

  Aus  dem  abessinischen  Klostern  in 

Terusalem.  (Zeitschrift  fiir  Assvriologie. 
Strassburg,  1902.  8°.  v.  16,  p.  102-124,  363- 
388.)  *OCL 

 Manuscripts.  (Zeitschrift  fiir  Assvri- 
ologie. Strassburg,  1907.  8°.  Bd.  20,  p.  167- 
169.)  *OCL 

A  catalogue  of  the  Ethiopic  manuscripts  in  the 
monastery  of  Dabra-Sina. 

i.  Biblical  and  apocryphal  books.  II.  Books  for  the 
service,  in.  Special  services  and  homilies,  iv.  Lives 
of  saints,  v.  Theology,  vi.  Law  and  history. 

Lund,  Johann  Ludwig  Michael.  An  Ethi- 
opian manuscript  in  the  Astor  Library. 
(American  church  review.  New  Haven. 
1881.  8°.  v.  36,  p.  189-211.)  ZRA 

 Reprinted  from  the  American 

Church  review.  October,  1881.  23  p.  8°. 
Title  from  cover.  *  GAH  p.v.22 

Offprint  of  preceding. 

Mai,  Angelo,  Cardinal.  Codices  aethiopici 
Bibliothecae  Vaticanae.  (In  his:  Scriptorum 
veterum  nova  collectio  e  Vaticanis  codicibus 
edita.  Romae:  Tvpis  Vaticanis,  m.dccc.xxxt. 
f  °.  v.  5,  p.  94-100.)  t  NRD 

Mountsier,  Robert.  An  Abyssinian  "Book 
of  prayers."  a  quaintly  illustrated  parchment 
volume  that  helps  defend  an  empire.  10 
illus.  (Asia.  Concord,  1924.  f°.  v.  24,  p. 
284-289.)  *  OAA 

This  manuscript  is  now  in  The  New  York  Public 

Library. 

Mueller,  Friedrich.  Die  athiopischen 
Handschriften  der  k.  k.  Hof-Bibliothek  in 
Wien.  (Deutsche  morerenlandische  Gesell- 
schaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1862.  8°.  Bd. 
16.  p.  553-557.)  *  OAA 

A.  Bibel.  B.  Historisches.  Legenden,  Ethnisches. 
C.  Liturgisches,  Rituale,  Gebete.  D.  Zaubergebete,  etc. 
E.  Chronologisches. 

Murray,  Alexander.  Account  of  the  Ethi- 
opic mss.  from  which  Mr.  Bruce  composed 
the  History  of  Abyssinia,  comprised  in  the 
fifth  book  of  the  Travels,  vol.  m.  p.  427- 
vol.  rv,  p.  199.  [By  Alexander  Murray.]  (In: 
James  Bruce,  Travels  to  discover  the  source 
of  the  Nile.  Edinburgh:  Archibald  Con- 
stable and  Co.,  1804.  8°.  2.  ed.  v.  7,  p.  395- 
410.)  BLL 

  List  of  Ethiopic  mss.  brought  from 

Habbesh  by  Mr.  Bruce.  (In  his:  Account  of 
the  life  and  writings  of  James  Bruce... 
Edinburgh,  1808.   4°.   p.  297-300.)      t  AN 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Bibliography,  continued. 

Murray,  Alexander,  continued. 

  Particular  account  of  the  Ethiopic 

mss.  from  which  Mr.  Bruce  composed  the 
History  of  Abyssinia,  inserted  in  his  Trav- 
els. (In  his:  Account  of  the  life  and  writings 
of  James  Bruce. . .  Edinburgh,  1808.  4°.  p. 
334-361.)  fAN 

Nau,  Francois  Nicolas.  Notices  des  ma- 
nuscrits  syriaque,  ethiopiens,  et  mandeens, 
entres  a  la  Bibliotheque  nationale  de  Paris 
depuis  l'edition  des  catalogues.  (Revue  de 
l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1911.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  6,  p.  271-323.)  *  OAA 

Manuscrits  ethiopiens,  p.  311-313. 
Twenty-one  Ethiopic  mss.  described. 

Piatt,  Thomas  Pell.  A  catalogue  of  the 
Ethiopic  Biblical  manuscripts  in  the  Royal 
Library  of  Paris,  and  in  the  library  of  the 
British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society;  also 
some  account  of  those  in  the  Vatican  Li- 
brary at  Rome.  With  remarks  and  extracts. 
To  which  are  added,  specimens  of  versions 
of  the  New  Testament  into  the  modern 
languages  of  Abyssinia:  and  a  grammatical 
analysis  of  a  chapter  in  the  Amharic  dialect: 
with  fac-similes  of  an  Ethiopic  and  an  Am- 
haric manuscript.  London:  Printed  by 
Richard  Watts,  MDCCCXXin.  2  p.l.,  84  p., 
1  1.,  2  pi.  (facsim.)  4°.  *  OAB 

Reviewed  in  Journal  des  sazans  (by  Silvestre  de 
Sacy),  Paris,  1823,  p.  433-437,  3-OA. 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz.  Lit- 
teratura  Aethlopica.  (In  his:  Aethiopische 
Grammatik.  Karlsruhe,  1886.  12°.  Paradig- 
mata,  p.  19-28.)  *  OAC 

Prideaux,  William  Francis.  An  ancient 
Ethiopic  vellum  manuscript.  (The  Bibli- 
ographer. London,  1883.  8°.  v.  4,  p.  118.) 

A  note  supplementary  to  Reade.  *  GAA 

Quaritch,  Bernard.  A  general  catalogue 
of  books  offered  to  the  public...  London, 
1887.  4°.  Reserve 

v.  5,  p.  3211-3214:  Abyssinian:  Ethiopic  and 
Amharic. 

Rahlfs,  Alfred.  t)ber  einige  alttestament- 
liche  Handschriften  des  Abessinierklosters 
S.  Stefano  zu  Rom.  (Konigliche  Gesell- 
schaft  der  Wissenschaften  zu  Gottingen. 
Nachrichten :  Philologische-historische 
Klasse.  Berlin,  1918.  8°.  1918,  p.  161-203.) 

*  EE 

I.  Der  Oktateuch.  n.  Der  Biicher  Regum.  in. 
Isaias.  iv.  Kleine  Propheten.  v.  Geschichte  der  vier 
Handschriften. 

Reade,  George  H.  An  ancient  Ethiopic 
vellum  manuscript.  (The  Bibliographer. 
London,  1883.  8°.  v.  4,  p.  24.)  *  GAA 

In  leather  case.   Picked  up  at  Magdala. 

Rhodokanakis,  Nicolaus.  Die  athiopischen 
Handschriften  der  k.  k.  Hofbibliothek  zu 
Wien.  Wien:  Alfred  Holder,  1906.  93  p.,  5 


17 

pi.  8°.  (Kaiserliche  Akademie  der  Wissen- 
schaften in  Wien.  Sitzungsberichte :  Philo- 
sophisch-historische  Klasse.  Bd.  151,  Abth. 
4.)  *  EF 

A  revision  of  the  catalogue  of  the  Ethiopic  mss. 
in  the  library. 

Reviewed  in  Oricntalistische  Literatur-Zeitung  (by 
H.  Reckendorf),  Berlin,  1906,  col.  224,  f*  OAA; 
Dnttsche  Litteraturzc-itung  (by  Hans  Stumme),  Leip- 
zig, 1906,  col.  1232-1233,  NAA. 

Rodwell,  John  Medows.  Description  of  a 
ms.  ^Ethiopic  Octateuch.  (Journal  of  sacred 
literature.  London,  1863.  8°.  new  series,  v. 
3,  p.  437^39.)  *  DA 

In  the  possession  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society. 

Executed  at  Aksum  for  the  use  of  the  Abyssinian 
monks  in  Jerusalem.  A  note  in  Arabic  states  that 
it  was  presented  to  them  by  Isaac,  King  of  Ethiopia 
from  1414  to  1429.  Rodwell  errs  in  giving  the  King's 
date  as  c.  1350. 

Rogers,  Robert  William.  A  catalogue  of 
manuscripts  (chiefly  Oriental)  in  the  li- 
brary of  Haverford  College,  n.t.-p.  n.d.  28- 
50  p.  8°.  *  OAB  p.v.l 

Six  Ethiopic  mss.  described  on  p.  38-42. 

Roman,  Alcide.  L'acquisition  du  ms.  ethi- 
opien  n°  5  du  Trocadero.  (^Ethiops.  Paris, 
1922.  8°.  annee  1,  p.  30-31.)  *  OED 

  Examen  paleographique  de  quelques 

chiffres  du  ms.  no.  5  du  Trocadero.  (/Ethi- 
ops.    Paris,  1923.   8°.  annee  2,  p.  28-29.) 

*OED 

Roupp,  N.  Die  alteste  athiopische  Hand- 
schrift  der  vier  Biicher  der  Konige.  4  pi. 
facsim.  (Zeitschrift  fur  Assvriologie.  Strass- 
burg,  1902.  8°.  Bd.  16,  p.  296-343.)  *  OCL 

Codex  Vaticanus-Borgianus  L.  V.,  16. 

According  to  the  inscription  it  appears  to  have 
been  presented  by  King  'Amda  Seyan  i.  (Gabra 
Masqal),  who  reigned  from  1312  to  1342,  to  the 
Monastery  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  Jerusalem. 

Salemann,  K.  G.-C.  [Report  on  the  collec- 
tion of  Ethiopic  mss.  offered  by  Dr.  Corian- 
der.] (Imperatorskaia  Akademiya  Nauk. 
Izvyestiya.  S. -Petersburg,  1904.  4°.  serie  5, 
tome  20,  p.  om-ov.)  *  QCB 

In  Russian,  without  title. 

Schodde,  George  Henry.  Beschreibung 
einer  athiopischen  Handschrift  der  Konigl. 
Bibliothek  zu  Dresden.  (Deutsche  morgen- 
landische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leip- 
zig, 1876.  8°.  Bd.  30,  p.  297-301.)     *  OAA 

Contains  a  life  of  Walatta  Petros,  two  panegyrics 
of  S.  Qirqos  (=Quiricius)  and  of  S.  Johannes. 

  The  church  of  Ethiopia.  (Presby- 
terian review.  New  York,  1887.  8°.  v.  8, 
p.  16-36.)  *  DA 

An  account  of  some  of  the  principal  Biblical  litera- 
ture of  the  Abyssinian  Church. 

 A  manuscript  of  the  Ethiopic  Psalter. 

(Hebraica.  New  York,  1889.  8°.  v.  5,  p. 
199-200.)  *  OBA 

In  the  possession  of  Mr.  Hall  N.  Jackson,  of 
Philadelphia. 


18 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Bibliography,  continued. 

Scrivener,  Frederick  Henry  Ambrose.  A 
plain  introduction  to  the  criticism  of  the 
New  Testament  for  the  use  of  Biblical  stu- 
dents. London:  George  Bell  &  Sons,  1894. 
2  v.  4.  ed.  8°.  *  YNC 

The  Ethiopic  version,  v.  2,  p.  154-155. 

Specimena  codicvm  orientalivm  conlegit 
Evgenivs  Tisserant.  Bonnae:  A.  Marcvs  et 
E.  Weber,  mcmxiv.  xlvii  p.,  80  facsims.  4°. 
(Tabvlae  in  vsvm  scholarvm  editae  svb  cvra 
Iohannis  Lietzmann.  8.)  f*  OBD 

pi.  62-66:  Codices  Aethiopici. 

Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich.  Efiop- 
skiya  rukopisi  v  S.-Peterburgye.  5  pi.  (fac- 
sim.)  (Imperatorskoye  Russkoye  Arkheo- 
logicheskoye  Obshchestvo.  Zapiski  Vos- 
tochnavo  Otdeleniya.  S.-Peterburg,  1906. 
4°.  torn.  17,  v.  ii-iii,  p.  115-248.)         *  QCB 

On  the  collection  of  Ethiopic  mss.  in  St.  Petersburg. 

  Novyya  sobraniya  efiopskich  ruko- 

pisei  v  Peterburgye.  (Zhurnal  Ministerstva 
Narodnavo  Prosvyescheniya.  S.-Peterburg, 
1905.  8°.  Chast.  358,  Sovremennaya  Lye- 
topis,  p.  15-27.)  *  QCA 

On  new  additions  to  the  Ethiopic  mss.  in  St. 
Petersburg. 


W.  Die  Bibliothek  Kaiser  Menelik's  des 
zweiten  von  Abyssinien.  (Zentralblatt  fiir 
Bibliothekswesen.  Leipzig,  1895.  8°.  Jahrg. 
12,  p.  46^17.)  *  HA 

Wright,  William.  List  of  the  Magdala 
collection  of  Ethiopic  manuscripts  in  the 
British  Museum.  (Deutsche  morgenland- 
ische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig, 
1870.  8°.  Bd.  24,  p.  599-616.)  *  OAA 

"The  following  list  is  abridged,  for  the  use  of 
foreign  scholars,  from  descriptions  drawn  up  by  me 
in  the  course  of  my  official  duties." 

  See  also  under  British  Museum. — 

Department  of  Manuscripts. 

Zettersteen,  Karl  Vilhelm.  Die  abessi- 
nischen  Handschriften  der  Konigl.  Uni- 
versitatsbibliothek  zu  Upsala  verzeichnet 
und  beschrieben.  (Deutsche  morgenland- 
ische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig, 
1899.  8°.  Bd.  53,  p.  508-520.)  *  OAA 

Describes  twelve  mss. 

Zotenberg,  Hermann.  See  under  Bibli- 
otheque  nationale. 


Periodicals  and  Collections 


Abessinische  Studien  herausgegeben  von 
Eugen  Mittwoch.  Heft  1.  Berlin  und  Leip- 
zig: Verlag  von  Walter  De  Gruyter  &  Co., 
1926.  8°.  *OED 

Heft  1.  Mittwoch.  Die  traditionelle  Aussprache 
des  Athiopischen.  1926. 

iEthiops.  Bulletin  Ge'ez.  Dirige  par  Syl- 
vain  Grebaut.  annee  1-2.  Paris,  1922-23. 
8°.  *OED 

Ceased  publication. 

Les  Apocryphes  ethiopiens,  traduits  en 
frangais  par  Rene  Basset,  [nos.]  i-vii,  ix-xi. 
Paris:  Librairie  de  l'Art  independent,  1893- 
1909.  10  v.  12°.  *OEE  (Bible) 

i.  Le  Livre  de  Baruch  et  la  legende  de  Jeremie. 
1893. 

ii.  Mas'h'afa  T'omar  (Livre  de  l'epitre).  1893. 
in.  LAscension  d'Isaie.  1894. 

iv.  Les  Legendes  de  S.  Tertag  et  de  S.  Sousnyos. 
1894. 

v.  Les  Prieres  de  la  Vierge  a  Bartos  et  au  Gol- 
gotha. 1895. 

vi.  Les  Prieres  de  S.   Cyprien  et  de  Theophile. 

1896. 

vii.  Enseignements  de  Jesus-Christ  a  ses  disciples 
et  prieres  magiques.  1896. 

ix.  Apocalypse  d'Esdras.  1899. 

x.  La  Sagesse  de  Sibylle.  1900. 

xi.  Fekkare  Iyasous.  1909. 

[nos.]  vi-x  have  imprint:  Bibliotheque  de  la  haute 

science. 

Bibliotheca  Abessinica.  Studies  concern- 
ing the  language,  literature,  and  history  of 


Abyssinia.  Edited  by  Dr.  E.  Littmann.  v. 
1-4.   Leyden:  E.  J.  Brill,  1904-11.  8°. 

*OED 

v.  1.  [Littmann,  E.]  The  legend  of  the  Queen  of 
Sheba  in  the  tradition  of  Axum.  1904. 

v.  2.  Boyd,  J.  Oscar.  The  text  of  the  Ethiopic 
version  of  the  Octateuch.  1905. 

v.  3-4.  The  Octateuch  in  Ethiopic  according  to 
the  text  of  the  Paris  codex.  Edited  by  J.  O.  Boyd. 
Part  1-2.  1909-11. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Ricordo  di  un  sog- 
giorno  in  Eritrea.  Fascicolo  primo.  As- 
mara: Stampato  nella  Tipografia  della  Mis- 
sione  Svedese,  1903.  vi,  78  p.  8°.     *  OEI 

One  of  fifty  copies  printed. 

Contents:  i.  La  lista  reale  di  Enda  Yohannes. 
n.  II  gadla  Sadqan.  ill.  II  gadla  Libanos.  iv.  L'am- 
basciata  francese  a  Neguse.  v.  Leggi  tigrai  (1.  Legge 
dei  Loggo  Sarda;  2.  Leggi  dei  Decchi  Tascim).  vi. 
Tradizione  Beni  Amer,  Algheden  e  Sabderat  (1. 
Tradizioni  dei  Beni  Amer  Ad  Ali  Bachit;  2.  Tra- 
dizioni  degli  Algheden;  3.  Tradizioni  dei  Sabderat). 

The  "Tradizione  Beni  Amer,  Algheden  e  Sab- 
derat" are  translated  into  Italian  in  his  Documenti  per 
lo  studio  della  lingua  tigre. 

Corpus  scriptorum  Christianorum  Ori- 
entalium.  Curantibus  I.-B.  Chabot,  I.  Guidi, 
H.  Hyvernat,  B.  Carra  de  Vaux.  Scriptores 
Aethiopici.  Parisiis  tet  Romaej,  1907-12.  8°. 

Series  i,  tomus  7.  Apocrypha  de  B.  Maria  Vir- 
gine.  Edidit  et  interpretatus  est  M.  Chaine.  2  v. 
1909.  *  OEE 

Series  n,  tomus  3.  Historia  regis  Sarsa  Dengel 
(Malak  Sagad).    2  v.    1907.  *  OEF 

Series  II,  tomus  6.  Annales  regum  Iyasu  II.  et 
Iyo'as.  [Pt.  ii.  Translation.]  1912.  *  OEP 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


19 


Periodicals  and  Collections,  continued. 

Corpus  scriptorum,  etc.,  continued. 

Series  II,  tomus  8.  Documenta  ad  illustrandam 
historiam.   I.  Liber  Axumae.    Textus.    1909.    *  OEF 

Series  II,  tomus  21.  Vitae  sanctorum  indigena- 
rum.    i.  Acta  S.  Eustathii.   Textus.    1906.      *  OEE 

Series  II,  tomus  28.  Acta  martyrum.  Edidit  et 
interpretatus  est  F.  M.  Esteves  Pereira.   2  v.  1907. 

*  OEE 

Monumenta  Aethiopiae  hagiologica.  Edi- 
dit B.  Turayev.  [Lipsia:  F.  A.  Brockhaus,] 
1902.  2  v.  8°.  *OEE 

Fasc.  2  has  imprint:  Petropoli:  Sumptibus 
Caesareae  Universitatis   Petropolitanae  [1902]. 

Fasc.  1 :  Gadla  Filpos  za-Dabra  Libanos.  Vita 
Philippi  Dabralibanensis  ad  fidem  manuscripti  Orient. 
728  Musei  Britannici  edita. 

Fasc.  2 :  Gadla  Samu'el  zagadama  IVali.  Vita  Sam- 
uelis  Valdebani  ad  fidem  manuscripti  136  Parisiensis 
edita.  (2)  Gadla  'Aron  mankrawi.  Vita  Aaronis 
mirabilis  (Thaumaturgi)  e  codice  Orient.  693  Musei 
Britannici  impressa.  (3)  Gadla  Gabra  'Endreyas  ad 
fidem  manuscripti  Orient.  702  Musei  Britannici  edita. 

Reviewed  in  Imperatorskoye  Russkoye  Arkheologi- 
cheskoye  Obshchestvo,  Zapiski  Vostochnavo  Otdeleniya 
(by  P.  Kfokovtzov]),  S.-Peterburg,  1906,  t.  17,  p. 
051-073,  *QCB. 

Patrologia  orientalis.  [Edited  by  R.  Graf- 
fin  and  F.  Nau.]  Tome  1-19.  Paris:  Firmin- 
Didot  et  Cie.,  1903-27.  4°.  f*  OAC 

This  series  includes  works  in  Ethiopic,  Syriac, 
Arabic,  etc.    Only  those  in  Ethiopic  are  listed  here. 

Tome  1,  fasc.  1.  Le  Livre  des  mysteres  du  ciel  et 
de  la  terre.  1903. 

Tome  1,  fasc.  5.  Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien.  i.  Le 
mois  de  sane.  1907 

Tome  2,  fasc.  5.  Le  Livre  de  Job.  1907. 

Tome  3,  fasc.  4.  Sargis  d'Aberga  (Controverse 
judeo-chretienne).  Premiere  assemblee.  1909. 

Tome  4,  fasc.  6.  The  Conflict  of  Severus,  patriarch 
of  Antioch,  by  Athanasius.  1907. 

Tome  6,  fasc.  3.  Le  Livre  des  mysteres  du  ciel  et 
de  la  terre.  Fin.  1910. 

Tome  6,  fasc.  4.  Severus  ibn  al-Mukaffa,  bishop 
of  Ushmunain.    Histoire  des  conciles.   II.  1910. 


Tome  7,  fasc.  3.  Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien.  II.  Le 
mois  de  hamle.  1910. 

Tome  9,  fasc.  1.   Le  Livre  d'Esther.  1911. 

Tome  9,  fasc.  3.  Le  Testament  en  Galilee  de 
Notre-Seigneur  Jesus-Christ.  1913. 

Tome  9,  fasc.  4.  Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien.  m.  Les 
mois  de  nahase  et  de  paguemen.  1913. 

Tome  12,  fasc.  4.   Les  Miracles  de  Jesus.  1917. 

Tome  13,  fasc.  1.  Sargis  d'Aberga  (Controverse 
judeo-chretienne).    Fin.  1917. 

Tome  13,  fasc.  5.  Le  Troisieme  livre  de  'Ezra 
(Esdras  et  Nehemie  canonique).  1919. 

Tome  14,  fasc.  5.   Les  Miracles  de  Jesus,  n.  1920. 

Tome  15,  fasc.  5.  Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien.  iv.  Le 
mois  de  Tahschasch.  1927. 

Tome  17,  fasc.  4.  Les  Miracles  de  Jesus,  in. 
1923. 

Princeton  University  Expedition  to  Abys- 
sinia, 1905-1906.  Publications  of  the  Prince- 
ton expedition  to  Abyssinia...  Leyden: 
Late  E.  J.  Brill,  Ltd.,  1910-15.  4  v.  in  5. 
plates.  8°.  *OEI 

Contents:  v.  1,  Tales,  customs,  names  and  dirges 
of  the  Tigre  tribes:  Tigre  text.  v.  2,  Tales,  customs, 
names  and  dirges  of  the  Tigre  tribes:  English  trans- 
lation, v.  3,  Lieder  der  Tigre-Stamme :  Tigre  Text, 
v.  4  a-b,  Lieder  der  Tigre-Stamme:  Deutsche  Uber- 
setzung  und  Commentar. 

Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien  (recueil  tri- 
mestriel).  [Serie  1,]  tome  1,  no.  1,  4-tome 
2,  no.  3,  tome  3-10  (1896-1905);  serie  2, 
tome  1-10,  no.  2  (1906-17);  serie  3,  tome 
1,  no.  2-tome  4  (1918-24).  Paris:  Bureau 
des  Oeuvres  d'Orient  [etc.],  1896-1924.  4°. 

Quarterly   (irregular).  *OAA 

[Serie  1-]  3,  tome  4  also  called  annee  1-24. 

Title  varies:  1896-97,  Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Supplement  trimestriel;  1898-1924,  Revue  de  l'Orient 
chretien  (recueil  trimestriel). 

Editors:  1911-24,  R.  Graffin  (1911-19,  with  F.  N. 
Nau). 

Includes  Bibliographic 

Contains  many  articles  on  Ethiopic. 


History  of  Ethiopic  Language  and  Literature 


Abbadie,  Antoine  Thompson  d'.  [Letter 
to  the  Rev.  G.  C.  Renouard,  Foreign  Secre- 
tary of  the  Royal  Geographical  Society,  giv- 
ing an  outline  of  the  different  languages 
spoken  in  Abyssinia.]  (Athenaeum.  Lon- 
don, 1845.  f°.  v.  18,  p.  359-360.)         *  DA 

  Lettre...a  M.  Mohl.  (Journal  asi- 

atique.  Paris,  1848.  8°.  serie  4,  tome  12, 
p.  370-376.)  *  OAA 

On  the  languages  spoken  in  Ethiopia. 

  Lettres  a  M.  Garcin  de  Tassy  [et] 

a  M.  Jomard.  (Journal  asiatique.  Paris, 
1839.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  7,  p.  364-369.)  *  OAA 

On  the  languages  of  Ethiopia. 

 Lettres. .  .a  M.  Jules  Mohl.  i.  Sur  les 

langues  ethiopiennes.  n.  Sur  la  langue  saho. 
(Journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1843.  8°.  serie  4, 
tome  2,  p.  102-118.)  *  OAA 


Adelung,  Johann  Christoph.  Volker  von 
Nubien  und  Habesch.  (In  his:  Mithridates 
oder  allgemeine  Sprachenkunde . . .  Berlin, 
1812.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  101-131.)  RAD 

On  the  languages  spoken  by  the  people  of  Nubia 
and  Abyssinia. 

Baumstark,  Anton.  Die  athiopische  Li- 
teratur.  (In  his:  Die  christlichen  Literaturen 
des  Orients.  Leipzig:  G.  J.  Goschen,  1911. 
24°.  Bd.  2,  p.  36-61.)  *  OAT 

Beke,  Charles  Tilstone.  On  the  geograph- 
ical distribution  of  the  languages  of  Abes- 
sinia  and  the  neighbouring  countries.  1  map. 
(Edinburgh  new  philosophical  journal.  Ed- 
inburgh, 1849.  8°.  v.  47,  p.  265-279.)  OA 

Brockelmann,  Carl.  Semitische  Sprach- 
wissenschaft.  Leipzig:  G.  J.  Goschen'sche 
Verlagshandlung,  1906.  160  p.  24°.    *  OBF 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


20 

History  of  Ethiopic  Language  and  Literature, 
continued. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Note  per  la  storia 
letteraria  abissina.  (Reale  accademia  dei 
Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  mo- 
rali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1900.  8°. 
serie  5,  v.  8,  p.  197-220,  263-285.)        *  ER 

I.  Periodo  aksumita.  n.  Secoli  xiii-xiv.  in. 
Secolo  xvi.  iVc  Secolo  xvn. 

  Piccoli  studi  etiopici.  (Zeitschrift  fiir 

Assyriologie.  Strassburg,  1912.  8°.  Bd.  27, 
p.  358-378.)  *  OCL 

Contents:  1.  L'itinerario  di  Beniamino  da  Tudela 
e  l'Etiopia.  2.  Soba  Noba  nella  tradizione  abissina. 
3.  Sul  metropolita  Salama  d'Etiopia.  4.  Sull'  eta 
della  versione  abissina  del  Sinassario.  5.  Appunti 
galla  in  lingua  amhara. 

Reviewed  in  JEthiops  (by  S.  Grebaut),  Paris,  1922, 
annee  1,  p.  32. 

 Sulla  versione  e  sulla  revisione  delle 

sacre  scritture  in  etiopico.  (Zeitschrift  fiir 
Assyriologie.  Weimar,  1895.  8°.  Bd.  10, 
p.  236-241.)  *OCL 

In  this  essay  the  author  brings  forward  evidence 
to  show  that  the  Abba  Salama,  whom  native  tradition 
identifies  with  Frumentius,  protoevangelist  of  Abys- 
sinia, to  whom  the  translation  of  the  Ethiopic  Bible 
was  ascribed,  was  in  reality  a  Metropolitan  of  the 
close  of  the  thirteenth  or  beginning  of  the  fourteenth 
century,  who,  with  several  colleagues,  revised  the  cor- 
rupt text  then  in  use. 

Cust,  Robert  Needham.  Ethiopic  branch. 
(In  his:  A  sketch  of  the- modern  languages 
of  Africa.  London:  Triibner  &  Co.,  1883. 
8°.  v.  1,  p.  87-93.)  *OAC 

i.  Ethiopic  or  Giz.  n.  Amharic.  ill.  Tigre.  iv. 
Hariri,  v.  Argobba.  vi.  Gafat.  vn.  Kambat.  viii. 
Gurague. 

  The   Hamitic  languages  of  North 

Africa.  (Philological  Society.  Transactions. 
London,  1885.  8°.  1882-84,  p.  572-577.) 

RAA 

Esteves  Pereira,  Francesco  Maria.  A 
poesia  etiopica.  (Academia  das  sciencias  de 
Lisboa.  Boletim.  Coimbra,  1915.  8°.  Classe 
2,  v.  8,  p.  422-446.)  *  ES 

Includes  the  poem  by  Mamher  Walda  Selase,  in 
praise  of  Emperor  Menilek. 


The  Ethiopians  —  apocryphal  books  of 
Isaiah  and  Enoch.  (Foreign  quarterly  re- 
view. London,  1840.  8°.  v.  24,  p.  351-385.) 

*  DA 

[Ethiopic  literature.]  (Dublin  review. 
London,  1862.  8°.  v.  51,  p.  133-153.)    *  DA 

Critical  notice  of  D'Abbadie's  Catalogue  raisonne", 
1859,  and  his  edition  of  Hermae  Pastor,  1860. 

Flemming,  Johannes.  Hiob  Ludolf:  ein 
Beitrag  zur  Geschichte  der  orientalischen 
Philologie.  (Beitrage  zur  Assyriologie. 
Leipzig,  1890-94.  8°.  Bd.  1,  p.  537-582;  Bd. 
2,  p.  63-110.)  *OCL 

i.  Hiob  Ludolf's  Leben.  n.  Ludolf s  athiopische 
Studien.  III.  Die  Briefe  des  Abba  Gregorius  an  Hiob 
Ludolf  (original  text  with  German  translation). 


Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Note  sur  la  poesie 
ethiopienne.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1909.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  4,  p.  90-98.) 

*OAA 

Describes  the  general  character  of  the  qene,  of  the 
malke'a  (hymns)  in  honor  of  the  Virgin,  and  of 
the  salam.  Prosody  and  meter  are  unknown  to  the 
Abyssinians.  There  is  only  a  sort  of  rime  which 
characterizes  the  verse. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Contributi  alia  storia  let- 
teraria di  Abissinia.  (Reale  accademia  naz- 
ionale  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di 
scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma, 
1922.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  31,  p.  65-94,  185-218.) 

*  ER 

i.  II  "Ser'ata  Mangest."  n.  Antonio  Neo- 
martire.  in.  La  prigionia  in  Wahni.  iv.  La  storia  di 
Iyasu  ii  e  Iyo'as  nel  codice  di  Francoforte  (Riippell) 
n.  18.  v.  La  storia  di  Hayla  Mika'el.  vi.  Un  re- 
sponso  sul  dritto  di  asilo. 

  La  prima  stampa  del  Nuovo  Testa- 

mento  in  etiopico  fatta  in  Roma  nel  1 548— 
1549.  (Reale  societa  romana  di  storia  patria. 
Archivio.  Roma,  1886.  8°.  v.  9,  p.  273-278.) 

BWA 

 Le  traduzioni   degli   Evangelii  in 

arabo  e  in  etiopico.  (Reale  accademia  dei 
Lincei.  Memorie:  Classe  di  scienze  morali, 
storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1888.  4°.  serie 
4,  v.  4,  parte  1,  p.  5-37.)  *  ER 

Le  traduzioni  etiopiche  degli  Evangelii,  p.  33-37. 

Halevy,  Joseph.  Traces  d'influence  indo- 
parsie  en  Abyssinie.  (Revue  semitique. 
Paris,  1896.  8°.  annee  4,  p.  258-265.)  *  OAA 

i.  Indiens  et  Persans  a  Adoulis.  n.  Influence 
persane.  in.  Influence  indienne.  iv.  Conclusion  et 
remarque  d'histoire  litteraire. 

He  traces  certain  beliefs  and  usages  of  the  Abys- 
sinians to  Persia,  e.g.,  the  king  serpent  (Arwe)  of 
Abyssinian  legend  he  finds  in  the  Ajis-Dahaka  of  the 
Parsees,  and  the  dino  of  the  chronicle  of  Zar'a  Ya'qob 
in  the  cow  dhenu  of  the  Indians.  The  intermediaries 
were  the  Persian  and  Indian  merchants  who  traded 
with  Abyssinia  through  the  port  of  Adulis. 

Harden,  John  Mason.  An  introduction  to 
Ethiopic  Christian  literature.  London:  So- 
ciety for  Promoting  Christian  Knowledge, 
1926.  vi  p.,  1  1.,  Ill  p.  12°.  *OEE 

Contents:  i.  The  country  and  language,  n.  Brief 
historical  sketch  of  the  country  and  church,  in.  Brief 
sketch  of  the  progress  of  the  literature,  iv.  The  Bible 
of  the  Ethiopic  Church,  v.  The  liturgies  and  other 
service  books,  vi.  Theological  and  ecclesiastical  books, 
vn.  Hagiology,  chronicles,  and  romance,  vm.  Philos- 
ophy and  law.  Appendices:  List  of  the  chief  kings 
of  Abyssinia  [from  1268  to  1730].  B.  The  Confession 
of  Claudius.  C.  List  of  some  other  theological  and 
ecclesiastical  works. 

"The  literature  of  the  ancient  Church  of  Abyssinia 
...is  in  some  respects  a  literature  which  cannot 
awaken  any  feelings  of  lively  interest,  for  it  is  to  a 
very  great  extent  devoid  of  that  quality  of  originality, 
which  most  of  all  inspires  interest.  The  dreary  mo- 
notony of  its  hagiology.  .  .tends  to  excite  weariness 
rather  than  interest;  and  the  Chronicles  of  the  Kings 
are,  except  here  and  there,  concerned  with  events 
of  merely  local  and  transitory  importance."  —  p.  101. 

Heider,  August.  Die  aethiopische  Bibel- 
iibersetzung.  Ihre  Herkunft,  Art,  Ge- 
schichte und  ihr  Wert  fiir  die  alt-  und  neu- 
testamentliche  Wissenschaft . . .  (Als  Prole- 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


History  of  Ethiopic  Language  and  Literature , 
continued. 

gomena  zu  einer  kritischen  Ausgabe  der 
aeth.  Bibel.)  Heft  1.  Leipzig:  Eduard 
Pfeiffer,  1902.  8°.  *OEEp.v.l 

Bibelkritische  Abhandlung.  —  Die  Prophetie  des 
Jeremia  an  Pashur.   Mit  deutscher  Ubersetzung. 

Krapf,  Johann  Ludwig.  The  present  lit- 
erature of  Abessinia.  (In  his:  Travels,  re- 
searches and  missionary  labours,  during  an 
eighteen  years  residence  in  eastern  Africa 
...  London:  Triibner  and  Co.,  1860.  8°. 
p.  555-560.)  Stuart  6939 

The  manuscripts  collected  by  Krapf  during  his 
residence  in  Africa  are  now  in  Tubingen.  See  entries 
under  Ewald  and  Harris  in  the  section  Bibliography. 

Leander,  Pontus  Adalbert.  Nagra  anteck- 
ningar  till  Ge'ez-sprakets  historia.  (In: 
Studier  tilegnede  Professor  Dr.  Phil.  & 
Theol.  Frants  Buhl.  K0benhavn,  1925.  8°. 
p.  91-97.)  *  OAC  (Studier) 

Lepsius,  Karl  Richard.  t)ber  die  Anord- 
nung  und  Verwandtschaft  des  Semitischen, 
Indischen,  Athiopischen,  Alt-Persischen 
und  Alt-Agyptischen  Alphabets.  (In  his: 
Zwei  sprachvergleichende  Abhandlungen. 
Berlin,  1836.  8°.  p.  1-80.)  RAL 

On  p.  74-80  he  attempts  to  show  that  the  Deva- 
nagari  alphabet  must  have  had  some  influence  on  the 
development  of  Ge'ez. 

Littmann,  Enno.  Geschichte  der  athiop- 
ischen Litteratur.  (In:  Karl  Brockelmann 
and  others,  Geschichte  der  christlichen  Lit- 
teraturen  des  Orients.  Leipzig:  C.  F.  Ame- 
lang,  1907.  8°.  p.  185-270.)  *  OAT 

Ludolf,  Hiob.  Iobi  Lvdolfi  alias  Leut-holf 
dicti  Historia  ^Ethiopica .  .  .  Francofurti  ad 
Mcenum:  Joh.  David  Zunner,  cioioclxxxi. 
f°.  *  KB 

De  libris  sacris  Habessinorum,  lib.  iii.,  c.  iv.  De 
re  literaria  ^thiopum,  lib.  iv.,  c.  i.  De  libris  & 
eruditione  iEthiopum,  lib.  iv.,  c.  ii.  De  nominibus 
hominum  apud  Habessinos  usitatis,  lib.  iv.,  c.  iii. 

  A  new  history  of  Ethiopia. .  .made 

English  by  J.  P.  Gent.   London,  1682.  f°. 

t  BLK 

Of  the  sacred  books  of  the  Habessines,  p.  261-270. 
Of  the  letters  used  by  the  Ethiopians,  p.  375-378. 
Of  the  books  and  learning  of  the  Ethiopians,  p.  379- 
383.  Of  the  names  of  men  among  the  Habessinians, 
p.  383-385. 

Margoliouth,  David  Samuel.  Ethiopic  lit- 
erature. (Encyclopaedia  Britannica.  Cam- 
bridge, 1910.  11.  ed.  4°.  v.  9,  p.  847-849.) 

*  R-*AL 


21 

Mittwoch,  Eugen. .  Italienischer  Brief 
eines  Franziskaners  aus  dem  Jahre  1495  in 
einer  Berliner  athiopischen  Handschrift.  1 
facsim.  (Deutsche  Literaturzeitung.  Ber- 
lin, 1926.  4°.  col.  1907-1910.)  NAA 

Noeldeke,  Theodor.  Die  athiopische  Lit- 
eratur.  (In:  Die  orientalische  Literaturen. 
Berlin:  B.  G.  Teubner,  1906.  4°.  p.  124- 
131.)  *OAT 

Bibliography,  p.  131. 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz.  Athi- 
opische Bibelubersetzungen.  (Realencyclo- 
padie  fur  protestantische  Theologie  und 
Kirche.  Leipzig,  1897.  8°.  Bd.  3,  p.  87-90.) 

*R-ZEB 

Raad,  A.  M.  Apergu  sur  les  langues 
d'Ethiopie.  (Al-Machriq.  Beyrouth,  1905. 
8°.  v.  8,  p.  10-14,  314-320.)  *  OEL 

In  Arabic. 

Rahlfs,  Alfred.  Nissel  und  Petraeus,  ihre 
athiopischen  Textausgaben  und  Typen. 
(Konigliche  Gesellschaft  der  Wissenschaf- 
ten  zu  Gottingen.  Nachrichten:  Philolo- 
gisch-historische  Klasse.  Berlin,  1918.  8°. 
1917,  p.  268-348.)  *  EE 

Reckendorf,  S.  Ueber  den  Werth  der  alt- 
athiopischen  Pentateuch-Ubersetzung  fur 
die  Reconstruction  der  Septuaginta.  (Zeit- 
schrift  fur  alttestamentliche  Wissenschaft. 
Giessen,  1887.  8°.  Jahrg.  7,  p.  61-90.)  *  PD 

Rein,  G.  K.  Abessinien;  eine  Landes- 
kunde  nach  Reisen  und  Studien  in  den 
Jam-en  1907-1913.  Berlin:  Dietrich  Reimer, 
1920.  3  v.  8°.  *OEF 

v.  3,  p.  224-236:  Sprache  und  Schrift,  with  one 
folding  table;  p.  237-244:  Literatur. 

Schodde,  George  Henry.  Remarks  on  the 
Ethiopic.  (Hebraica.  Chicago  [1885].  8°. 
v.  1,  p.  123-127.)  *OBA 

Brief  notes  on  the  language  and  literature. 

  Specimens   of  Ethiopic  literature. 

(Bibliotheca  sacra.  Andover,  1882.  8°.  v. 
39,  p.  74-103.)  *  DA 

Welsford,  Henry.  On  the  Ethiopic  lan- 
guage and  grammar.  (In  his:  Mithridates 
minor;  or,  An  essay  on  language.  London: 
Longman  [etc.],  1848.  8°.  p.  69-77.)  RAD 

Of  no  value. 

Weymann,  Karl  Friedrich.  Die  aethio- 
pische  und  arabische  Ubersetzung  des  Pseu- 
docallisthenes.  Ein  literarkritische  Unter- 
suchung.  Kirchhain  N.-L. :  Druck  von  Max 
Schmersow  vorm.  Zahn  &  Baendel,  1901. 
vii,  83(1)  p.  8°.  *OEG 


Ethiopic  Language 


Alphabetum  Aethiopicum  sive  Gheez  et 
Amharicum  cum  Oratione  Dominicali  Salu- 
tatione  Angelica  symbolo  fidei  praeceptis 
Decalogi  &  initio  Evangelii  S.  Iohannis... 
Romae:  Typis  Sac.  Congreg.  de  Prop.  Fide, 
1789.  32  p.  8°.  *  OEC 


The  Latin  title  is  followed  by  a  translation  of  it 
into  Ge'ez,  with  date  of  imprint  given  as  1788. 

p.  3-18  are  occupied  by  a  preface  by  the  editor, 
Giovanni  Cristoforo  Amaduzzi,  giving  an  account  of 
the  progress  of  the  study  of  Ethiopic  in  Europe  from 
1630  to  1789. 

  Another  copy.  RAH  p.v.2 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


22 

Ethiopic  Language,  continued. 

Amaduzzi,  Giovanni  Cristoforo.  See  under 
Alphabetum  Aethiopicum. 

Beke,  Charles  Tilstone.  On  the  languages 
and  dialects  of  Abyssinia  and  the  countries 
to  the  south.  (Philological  Society.  Pro- 
ceedings. London,  1846.  8°.  v.  2,  p.  89-107.) 

p.  97-107  are  folding  tables  of  languages.  RAA 
With  vocabularies  of:  (1)  ^Hhamara,  or  Agau  of 
Waag;  (2)  Falasha;  (3)  Agawi  or  Agau  of  Agau- 
mider;  (4)  Gafat;  (5)  Gonga;  (6)  Kaffa;  (7) 
Woratta;  (8)  Wolamo  or  Wolaitsa;  (9)  Yangaro; 
(10)  Shankala  of  Agaumider;  (11)  Galla  of  Guderu; 
(12)  Tigre;  (13)  Harrargie  (Hurrur).  These  vocabu- 
laries were  collected  during  Beke's  sojourn  in 
Abyssinia  between  the  years  1841  and  1843. 

 tiber  die  geographische  Verbreitung 

der  Sprachen  von  Abessinien  und  der 
Nachbarlander.  (In:  Heinrich  Berghaus. 
Physikalisches  Atlas.  Geographisches  Jahr- 
buch,  1852.  Gotha  [1852].  4°.  Bd.  4,  p.  44- 
49.)  PSB 

Anmerkungen,  p.  49-50. 

Bezold,  Carl.  Anfiihrendes  a'  im  Aethi- 
opischen.  (Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie. 
Berlin,  1900.  8°.  Bd.  15,  p.  398.)         *  OCL 

  See  also  under  Dillmann,  C.  F.  A. 

Ethiopic  grammar. 

Bird,  James.  Abyssinia,  Eastern  Africa, 
and  the  Ethiopic  family  of  languages.  [By 
James  Bird.]  (Royal  Asiatic  Society. — 
Bombav  Branch.  Journal.  Bombay,  1848. 
8°.  v.  2,  p.  294-309.)  *  OAA 

With  folding  "Table  of  Abyssinian  languages 
shewing  their  connection  with  the  Ethiopian  and  Syro- 
Arabian  families." 

  On  the  origin  of  the  Hamaiyaric  and 

Ethiopic  alphabets.  1  pi.  (Royal  Asiatic 
Societv.  —  Bombay  Branch.  Journal.  Bom- 
bay, 1848.  8°.  v.  2,  p.  66-71.)  *  OAA 

Bittner,  Maximilian.  Aethiopisch  anbe' 
und  anbe'a;  esma.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift  fur 
die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes.  Wien,  1901. 
8°.  Bd.  15,  p.  114-115.)  *OAA 

 Aethiopisch  arwe  und  Armenisch  ara 

oder  yra  [beast].  (Wiener  Zeitschrift  fur  die 
Kunde  des  Morgenlandes.  Wien,  1900.  8°. 
Bd.  14,  p.  370.)  *OAA 

 Aethiop.  ba'ed  und  Ar.  ba'd.  (Wiener 

Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgen- 
landes. Wien,  1899.  8°.  Bd.  13,  p.  297.) 

*OAA 

  Athiopische  Etymologien.  (Wiener 

Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes. 
Wien,  1917/18.  8°.  Bd.  30,  p.  423-425.) 

*OAA 

Maqdut,  Topf;  tawadeha,  'Geburtswehen  haben'; 
tahamawa,  'sich  verschwagern';  kabata,  'verbergen, 
verheimlichen,  verhellen';  hedmat,  'tiefer  Schlaf; 
tahadama,  'tief  schlafen';  saret,  'Spinne';  fenaw  plur. 
of  fenot,  'Weg.' 

 Aethiopisch  guer'e  "Kehle."  (Wiener 

Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes. 
Wien,  1900.  8°.  Bd.  14,  p.  371.)         *  OAA 


  Athiopische  Miszellaneen.  (Wiener 

Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgen- 
landes. Wien,  1909-10.  8°.  Bd.  23,  p.  407- 
412;  Bd.  24,  p.  125.)  *  OAA 

  Aethiopisch  san'a.  (Wiener  Zeit- 
schrift fiir  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes. 
Wien,  1900.  8°.  Bd.  14,  p.  371.)        *  OAA 

  Zu  ath.  gabgab,  atrium,  vestibulum, 

tantorii.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift  fiir  die  Kunde 
des  Morgenlandes.  Wien,  1913.  8°.  Bd.  27, 
p.  129.)  *OAA 

Blake,  Frank  Ringgold.  Comparative 
syntax  of  the  combinations  formed  by  the 
noun  and  its  modifiers  in  Semitic.  (Ameri- 
can Oriental  Society.  Journal.  New  Haven, 
1912.  8°.  v.  32,  p.  135-267.)  *  OAA 

Very  many  examples  are  quoted  from  Ethiopic, 
Amharic,  Tigre,  and  Tigrina. 

Castell,  Edmund.  Lexicon  heptaglotton, 
Hebraicum,  Chaldaicum,  Syriacum,  Samari- 
tanum,  ^thiopicum,  Arabicum  conjunctim; 
et  Persicum,  separatim...  Cui  accessit 
brevis,  &  harmonica  (quantum  fieri  potuit) 
grammatical,  omnium  prsecedentium  lingu- 
arum  delineatio  Authore  Edmundo  Cas- 
tello.  Londini:  imprimebat  Thomas  Roy- 
croft,  cio.dc.lxix.  2  v.  f  °.  ft*  YAB 

With  portrait  of  the  author.  Pagination  con- 
tinuous. 

Issued  as  supplement  to:  Bible.  —  Polyglott,  1657. 
Biblia  sacra  polyglotta .  . .  Londini,  [1655— ]69.  f°. 
v.  7-8. 

Chaine,  Marius.  Grammaire  ethiopienne. 
Beyrouth:  Imprimerie  catholique,  1907.  ix, 
308  p.,  1  1.  8°.  *OEC 

p.  273-308:  Paradigmes  et  index.  Errata  on  last 
unnumbered  page. 

"Clarte  et  precision:  telles  sont  les  caracteristiques 
de  cette  nouvelle  grammaire  ethiopienne,  et  ces  quali- 
tes  en  font  un  parfait  instrument  d'enseignement  et 
d'etude."  A.  Guerinot,  Journal  asiatique,  Paris,  1907, 
serie  10,  tome  10,  p.  380. 

Reviewed  in:  Revue  de  I'histoire  des  religions  (by 
Rene  Basset,  with  several  additions  to  the  author's 
list  of  errata),  Paris,  1908,  tome  57,  p.  132-133, 
ZAA;  Catholic  University  bulletin  (by  H.  Hyver- 
nat),  Washington,  1908,  v.  14,  p.  613-614,  STG; 
Review  of  thcologv  and  philosophy  (by  James  A. 
Crichton),  Edinburgh,  1908,  v.  3,  p.  557-559,  ZAA; 
Bulletin  critique  (by  S.  Grebaut),  Paris,  1907,  tome 
28,  p.  266-269,  NAA;  Revue  critique  (by  C.  Mondon 
Vidailhet),  Paris,  1907,  nouv.  serie,  tome  64,  p.  384- 
386,  NAA;  Lusac's  oriental  list,  London,  1907,  v.  18, 
p.  66-67;  Revue  biblique  internationale  (by  Eugene 
Tisserant),  Paris,  1908,  nouv.  serie,  tome  5,  p.  438- 
439,  *YIA;  Revue  de  I' Orient  chretien  (by  F.  Nau), 
Paris,  1907,  tome  2,  p.  335,  *  OAA. 

Cohen,  Marcel  Samuel  Raphael.  Con- 
sonnes  laryngales  et  voyelles  en  ethiopien. 
Conjugaison  des  verbes  a  laryngale  mediane 
ou  finale.  (Journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1927. 
8°.  tome  210,  p.  19-57.)  *  OAA 

  Les  etudes  ethiopiennes.  (Societe 

asiatique,  Paris.  Le  livre  du  centenaire, 
1822-1922.  Paris:  P.  Geuthner,  1922.  8°. 
p.  133-140.)  *OAA 

  Groupes  de  consonnes  au  debut  du 

mot    en    ethiopien.     (ficole    pratique  des 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Ethiopic  Language,  continued. 

hautes  etudes.  Cinquantenaire.  Paris,  1921. 
8°.  [partie  orientate],  p.  141-159.)        *  EN 

Bibliotheque:  Sciences  historiques  et  philologiques. 
fasc.  230. 

  Langues  ethiopiennes.  (In:  A.  Meil- 

let  and  Marcel  Cohen,  Les  langues  du 
monde,  par  un  groupe  de  linguistes  sous  la 
direction  Meillet  et  Cohen.  Paris,  1924.  8°. 
p.  122-127.)  RAL 

  La  prononciation  traditionnelle  du 

gueze  (ethiopien  classique).  (Journal  asi- 
atique.  Paris,  1921.  8°.  serie  11,  tome  17, 
p.  217-269.)  *OAA 

I.  Existence  et  valeur  de  la  tradition.  II.  Documents 
sur  la  tradition  publies  jusqu'a  maintenant.  ni. 
Documents  nouveaux  sur  la  tradition,   iv.  Conclusion. 

"L'important  et  consciencieux  travail  —  qui 
merite,  incontestablement,  les  plus  grands  eloges."  — 
S.  Grebaut,  Aithiops,  Paris,  1922,  annee  1,  p.  15. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Catalogo  dei  nomi 
propri  di  luogo  dell'  Etiopia  contenuti  nei 
testi  gi'iz  ed  amharina  finora  pubblicati. 
(Congresso  geografico  italiana.  Atti  del 
primo  congresso.  Genova,  1894.  8°.  v.  2, 
p.  387-439.)  KAA 

 Sud-anabico]  asad=  et  [iopico]  anbasa, 

'oumo  d'arme.'  (Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie. 
Strassburg,  1910.  8°.  Bd.  24,  p.  337-344.) 

*OCL 

Crichton,  James  Alexander.  See  under 
Dillmann,  C.  F.  A.  Ethiopic  grammar. 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
Bemerkungen  zur  Grammatik  des  Geez  und 
zur  alten  Geschichte  Abessiniens.  (Koenig- 
liche  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften  zu  Ber- 
lin. Sitzungsberichte.  Berlin,  1890.  4°. 
Jahrg.  1890,  p.  3-17.)  *  OEF 

  Ethiopic  grammar.    Second  edition 

enlarged  and  improved  (1899)  by  Carl  Be- 
zold.  Translated  by  James  A.  Crichton. 
London:  Williams  &  Norgate,  1907.  xxx, 
581  p.,  9  folded  tables.  8°.  *  OEC 

Reviewed  in:  Journal,  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  Lon- 
don, 1908,  p.  276-280,  *  OAA;  Literarischcs  Zentral- 
blatt  (by  Brockelmann),  Leipzig,  1907,  Jahrg.  58, 
col.  1612,  NAA;  Theologische  Literaturzeitung  (by 
Georg  Beer),  Leipzig,  1910,  Jahrg.  35,  col.  580-581, 
t  ZEA;  Al-Machriq  (by  M.  Chaine),  Beyrouth,  1908, 
p.  150-151,  *OEL. 

"En  accomplissant  cette  traduction,  M.  James  A. 
Crichton  a  rendu  un  service  signale  a  ses  compatriotes, 
et  d'autant  plus  que  le  langage  clair  et  coulant  de  la 
traduction  l'emporte  beaucoup  sur  le  style  touffu  et 
souvent  obscure  de  la  composition  originale."  — 
Joseph  Halevy,  Revue  semitique,  Paris,  1907,  tome  15, 
p.  409. 

  Grammatik      der  athiopischen 

Sprache.  Leipzig:  T.  O.  Weigel,  1857.  xxiv, 
435  p.  8°.  *  OEC 

p.  xv-xxiv  are  folding  tables. 

    Zweite  verbesserte  und  ver- 

mehrte  Auflage  von  Dr.  Carl  Bezold.  Leip- 
zig: Chr.  Herm.  Tauchnitz,  1899.  xiv  p., 
1  1.  (blank),  488  p.,  9  folded  tables.  8°. 

*OEC 


23 

  Lexicon  linguae  Aethiopicae,  cum 

indice  Latino.  Adiectum  est  vocabularium 
Tigre  dialecti  septentrionalis  compilatum  a 
Werner  Munzinger.  Lipsiae :  T.  O.  Weigel, 
mdccclxv.  iv  p.,  v-xxxii,  1522  cols.,  vi  [mis- 
numbered  iv]  p.,  [7-] 64  cols.,  1  p.  f°. 

ft*  OEC 

Lexico  Aethiopico  adjiciuntur.  i.  Index  vocabu- 
lorum,  quae  vel  dubia  et  obscura,  vel  exemplis  nondum 
probata  sunt.  II.  Index  vocabulorum  peregrinorum, 
quae  rarius  occurrunt,  neque  communi  usu  recepta 
sunt.  in.  Nomina  propria,  iv.  Addenda  et  emen- 
danda.   v.  Index  Latinus. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Additions  morpho- 
logiques  au  Lex.  aeth.  de  Dillmann. 
(^Ethiops.  Paris,  1922-23.  8°.  annee  1,  p. 
4-7,  19-25,  39-40,  55-56;  annee  2,  p.  4,  9,  23- 
25,  37-43,  52-58.)  *  OED 

  Contributions  a  la  philologie  ethi- 

opienne.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1918/19-1920/21.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  1,  p. 
314-322,  401-408;  tome  2,  p.  65-71,  329-333.) 

*OAA 

II.  Lexicographic  (Additions  au  Lexicon  linguae 
aethiopicae  de  A.  Dillmann.)  1.  Additions  morpho- 
logiques.  Formes  nominales  et  verbales.  2.  Additions 
semantiques.  in.  Onomastique.  iv.  Cas  d'arabophonie. 
v.  Orthographic 

  Courtes  additions  au  Lex.  aeth.  de 

Dillmann.  (^thiops.  Paris,  1922-23.  8°. 
annee  1,  p.  14,  29-30,  57-58;  annee  2,  p.  12- 
13.)  *OED 

Title  of  last  article  is  changed  to:  Notules  lexi- 
cographiques. 

  Rectifications  lexicographiques. 

(^Ethiops.  Paris,  1923.  8°.  annee  2,  p.  60- 
61.)  *OED 

Corrections  of  Dillmann. 

  References  et  exemples  a  ajouter  au 

Lex.  aeth.  de  Dillmann.  (^Ethiops.  Paris, 
1922-23.  8°.  annee  1,  p.  59-60;  annee  2,  p. 

11-  12.)  *OED 

 Vocables  etrangers.  (iEthiops.  Paris, 

1923.  8°.  annee  2,  p.  59-60.)  *  OED 

Additions  to  Dillmann's  Lexicon. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  A  propos  d'une  nouvelle 
edition  du  Lex.  aeth.  de  Dillmann.  (^Ethi- 
ops.   Paris,  1922.   8°.   annee  1,  p.  49-52.) 

*OED 

Drechsler,  Christoph  Moritz  Bernhard 
Julius.  De  Aethiopicae  linguae  coniugation- 
ibus  commentatio. . .  Lipsiae:  Typis  Breit- 
kopfio-Haertelianis  [1825].   92  p.,  1  1.  8°. 

*OEC 

Eitan,  Israel.  Ethiopic  and  Hebrew 
etymologies.  (American  journal  of  Semitic 
languages  and  literatures.  Chicago,  1924. 
8°.  v.  40,  p.  269-276.)  *  OBA 

  Utilite  de  l'ethiopien  pour  l'exegese 

et  la  lexicographie  biblique.  (Revue  des 
etudes  juives.  Paris,  1923.  8°.  tome  77,  p. 

12-  19.)  *PBF 

With  reference  to  Proverbs  xii.  27. 


24 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Ethiopic  Language,  continued. 

An  Ethiopic-Falasi  glossary,  edited  and 
translated  by  Hartwig  Hirschfeld.  (Royal 
Asiatic  Society  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland. 
Journal.  London,  1919-21.  8°.  1919,  p.  209- 
230;  1920,  p.  573-582;  1921,  p.  211-237.) 

*OAA 

"The  ms.  is  an  Ethiopic-Amharic  glossary  of  verbal 
stems,  written  in  two  parallel  columns.  .  .  How  much 
there  is  still  to  be  done  in  Ethiopic  philology  is  illus- 
trated by  the  fact  that  our  vocabulary  contains  many 
words  not  recorded  in  Dillmann's  Lexicon...  There 
is  also  on  the  Amharic  side  a  number  of  words  not 
given  in  the  dictionaries  of  D'Abbadie  and  Professor 
Guidi."  The  words  not  in  Dillmann  are  recorded  in 
this  vocabulary  by  an  asterisk. 

Faulmann,  Carl.  Athiopisch  und  Am- 
harisch.  (In  his:  Das  Buch  der  Schrift... 
Wien:  K.  K.  Hof-  und  Staatsdruckerei, 
1878.  4°.  p.  41-42.)  *  IC 

Gover,  Miss  M.  B.  An  "Abyssinian"  vo- 
cabulary of  the  seventeenth  century. 
(School  of  Oriental  Studies,  London.  Bul- 
letin. London,  1923.  8°.  v.  2,  p.  763-782.) 

*OAA 

These  words  occur  on  fols.  la— 4a  of  the  ms. 
Historia  de  Ethiopia  of  Manoel  d' Almeida  (1580- 
1646)  in  the  Marsden  Library  (King's  College).  The 
explanations  are  in  Portuguese.  Almeida  was  a  Jesuit 
missionary  in  Abyssinia. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  La  conjonction  finale 
la.  (^Ethiops.  Paris,  1922.  8°.  annee  1,  p. 
12.)  *OED 

  Contributions  a  la  philologie  ethi- 

opienne.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1918/19-1920/21.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  314- 
322,  401-408;  tome  2,  p.  65-71,  329-333.) 

*OAA 

  Courtes  notes  de  grammaire.  (^Ethi- 

ops.  Paris,  1922.  8°.  annee  1,  p.  37-39.) 

*OED 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  II  Sawasew.  (In:  Ori- 
entalische  Studien  Theodor  Noldeke  zum 
siebzigsten  Geburtstag. . .  Herausgegeben 
von  Carl  Bezold.  Gieszen:  A.  Topelmann, 
1906.  8°.  Bd.  2,  p.  913-923.)  *  OAC 

"Gli  abissini  hanno  coltivato  le  discipline  gram- 
matical! e  lessicografiche  sotto  il  nome  di  Sawasew." 

Halevy,  Joseph.  [Arabic]  ansur  =  [Ethi- 
opia 'enzira.  (Journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1904. 
8°.  serie  10,  tome  3,  p.  345-346.)        *  OAA 

  Le  mot  arbuste  en  ethiopien  popu- 
late. (Journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1903.  8°. 
serie  10,  tome  2,  p.  527.)  *  OAA 

Hasse,  Johann  Gottfried.  Lectiones  Syro- 
Arabico-Samaritano-Aethiopicae.  Congessit 
ac  tabvlis  elementaribvs  ad  addiscendas 
illas  lingvas  necessariis  instrvxit  D.  loan. 
Godofr.  Hasse.  Regiomonti  et  Lipsiae: 
Svmtibvs  Hartvngii,  cioiocclxxxviii.  viii, 
110  p.,  1  1.,  4  folded  tables.  12°.         *  OBF 

Haupt,  Paul.  Hebrew  as  =  Ethiopic  enza. 
(Society  of  Oriental  Research.  Journal. 
Chicago,  1917.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  41-44.)     *  OAA 


 Studies  on  the  comparative  grammar 

of  the  Semitic  languages,  with  special  ref- 
erence to  Assyrian.  The  oldest  Semitic  verb 
form.  (Royal  Asiatic  Society  of  Great  Brit- 
ain. Journal.  London,  1878.  8°.  new  series, 
v.  10,  p.  244-251.)  *  OAA 

On  the  correspondence  of  the  forms  of  the  verb 
in  Assyrian  and  Ethiopic. 

Hess,  J.  J.  Bemerkungen  zu  einigen 
arabischen  Wortern  des  abessinischen 
Glossars  (ZA  xxi,  61  ff.)  (Zeitschrift  fiir 
Assyriologie.  Strassburg,  1918.  8°.  Bd.  31, 
p.  26-32.)  *  OCL 

Hirschfeld,  Hartwig.  See  Ethiopic-Falasi 

glossary. 

Hommel,  Fritz.  Die  Saugethiernamen  der 
Athiopen,  oder  die  Fauna  von  Abesinien 
nach  den  Denkmalern  der  Ge'ez-Literatur. 
(In  his:  Die  Namen  der  Saugethiere  bei  den 
siidsemitischen  Volkern.  Leipzig:  J.  C. 
Hinrichs,  1879.  8°.  p.  359-400.)        *  OBF 

Hottinger,  Johann  Heinrich.  Etymologi- 
cum  Orientale;  sive  Lexicon  harmonicum 
e^toiyXuottov,  quo,  non  matris  tantum,  He- 
braicse  linguae,  radices  Biblicae  omnes  vel 
constituuntur;  vel,  ubi  inter  Iudaeos  tem- 
poris  injuria  usitatae  esse  desierunt,  ex 
Chaldaea,  Syria,  Arabia,  ^Ethiopia,  &c. 
restituuntur,  diversisque  significatibus  suis 
explicantur;  sed  et  Chaldaicae,  Syriacae, 
Arabicae,  Samaritanas,  ^thiopicae,  Talmud- 
ico-Rabbinicae  dialectorum,  ceu  filiarum, 
voces  juxta  seriem  radicum  Hebraicarum, 
magno  numero^  ex  libris  tarn  canonicis, 
quam  ecclesiasticis  exhibentur;  harmonia 
simul  vel  matris  cum  filiabus,  vel  filiarum 
inter  se  luculenter  ostenditur,  propriae  deni- 
que  cujusvis  radicis  significationes  adjiciun- 
tur...  Francofvrti:  Sumptibus  Joh.  Wil- 
helmi  Ammonij,  &  Wilhelmi  Serlini,  1661. 
4°.  *OBF 

Hupfeld,  Hermann  Christian  Karl  Fried- 
rich.  Exercitationes  aethiopicae  sive  obser- 
vationum  criticarum  ad  emendandam  ratio- 
nem  grammaticae  Semiticae  specimen  pri- 
mum.  .  .  Lipsiae:  Sumptibus  Frid.  Chr.  Guil. 
Vogelii,  1825.  vi,  46  p.  4°.  *  OEC 

No  more  published. 

"Das  Hauptverdienst  dieser  Schrift  besteht  in  der 
Nachweisung  des  wahren  Unterschieds  zwischen  dem 
ersten  und  zweiten  Stamm  des  Thatworts,  den  Ludolf 
ganzlich  verkannt  hatte."  —  Dillmann,  Grammatik, 
1857,  p.  11. 

Hurwitz,  Solomon  Theodore  Halevy. 
Root  determinatives  in  Semitic  speech.  A 
contribution  to  Semitic  philology.  New 
York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1913. 
xxii,  113  p.  8°.  (Contributions  to  Oriental 
history  and  philology,  no.  6.)  *  OBF 

Bibliography,  p.  xv-xxii. 

Koenig,  Eduard.  Neue  Studien  iiber 
Schrift,  Aussprache  und  allgemeine  For- 
menlehre  des  Aethiopischen,  aus  den  Quel- 
len  geschopft,  comparativ  und  physiologisch 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Ethiopic  Language,  continued. 

erlautert.  Leipzig:  J.  C.  Hinrichs'sche 
Buchhandlung,  1877.  xii,  164  p.,  2  folded 
tables.  8°.  *  OEC 

Littmann,  Enno.  Abessinische  Miszellen. 
(Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie.  Strassburg, 
1911.  8°.  Bd.  25,  p.  321-327.)  *OCL 

A.  Etymologisches.  1,  daktama.  2,  dannaqa.  3, 
abet.  4,  ma'asare.  5,  dagal=[Heb.]  degel.  B.  Ver- 
besserungen  zur  Uebersetzung  der  Philosophi  Abes- 
sini.  C.  Bemerkungen  zu  den  "Abessinischen  Glos- 
sen." 

  Ge'ez  Studien.  (Konigliche  Gesell- 

schaft  der  Wissenschaften  zu  Gottingen. 
Nachrichten  :  Philologisch-historische  Klasse. 
Berlin,  1918.  8°.  1917,  p.  627-702;  1918, 
p.  318-339.)  *  EE 

i.  Psalm  1-12  und  Marcus-Evangelium  Kap.  1-5 
in  Urtext  und  Umschrift.  IX.  Alphabet,  Paradigmata 
der  Verbal-  und  Nominalformen  in  Umschrift.  HI. 
Texte  und  Paradigmata  nach  Takla-Maryam. 

 Indien  und  Abessinien.  (In:  Beitrage 

zur  Literaturwissenschaft  und  Geistesge- 
schichte  Indiens.  Festgabe  Hermann  Ja- 
cobi.  Bonn,  1926.  8°.  p.  406-417.)    *  OHM 

On  Ethiopic  words  of  ultimate  Indian  origin. 

Ludolf,  Hiob.  Za-'Iyob  Ludolf  za'emb- 
hera  garmanya  'enta  yeblewa  'alemanna 
temherta  lesana  ge'ez  'enta  ye'etl  lesana 
mashaf  za'ltyopya.  Hoc  est:  Iobi  Ludolfi 
grammatica  /Ethiopica:  ab  ipso  autore  so- 
licite  revisa,  &  plurimis  in  locis  correcta  & 
aucta.  Editio  secunda  accedit  prosodia,  cum 
appendicibus,  praxi  grammatica,  et  de 
scribendis  epistolis  /Ethiopicis;  denique  in- 
dex vocabulorum  difficiliorum.  Francofurti 
ad  Moenum:  Prostat  apud  Johannem  David 
Zunnerum,  et  Nicolaum  Wilhelmum  Hel- 
wig.  Typis  &  sumtibus  autoris  impressit 
Martinus  Jacquet  cioioccii.  6  p.l.,  184  p.,  4  1. 
f °.  ft*  OEC 

Title  in  red  and  black. 

The  four  leaves  at  end  contain:  Index  vocum 
difficiliorum  aut  irregularium,  juvandis  tyronibus  con- 
gestus. 

  Za-'Iyob  Ludolf  za'embhera  gar- 
manya 'enta  yeblewa  'alemanna  mazgaba 
qalat  zalesana  ge'ez  'enta  ye'etl  lesana 
mashaf  za'ityopya.  Zaterguamehu  kona 
balesana  latin  'enta  ye'etl  lesana  mashaf 
zasab'a  ewropa.  Hoc  est :  Iobi  Ludolfi  Lexi- 
con ^thiopico-Latinum:  ex  omnibus  libris 
impressis,  et  multis  MSStis  contextum. 
Nunc  denuo  ab  ipso  autore  revisum  ac  em- 
endatum,  plurimisque  novis  radicibus  & 
derivatis,  nec  non  nominibus  propriis  auc- 
tum,  ut  in  praefatione  pluribus  dicetur.  Edi- 
tio secunda  accedit  index  Latinis  copiosissi- 
mus,  qui  vicem  Lexici  Latino-^thiopici 
prsestare  possit.  Francofurti  ad  Moenum: 
Prostat  apud  Johannem  David  Zunnerum. 
Typis  &  sumtibus  autoris  impressit  Mart. 
Jacquet,  cioiocxcix.  8  p.l.,  664  col.,  22  1.  f°. 

Title  in  red  and  black.  -J--f-*  OEC 


25 

Mercer,  Samuel  Alfred  Browne.  Ethiopic 
grammar  with  chrestomathy  and  glossarv. 
Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1920.  116  p.  12°. 

*OEC 

Reviewed  in  Journal  of  the  Society  of  Oriental 
Research,  v.  4,  p.  93-94,  Chicago,  1920,  *OAA;  Le 
Monde  oriental  (by  H.  S.  Nyberg,  very  severe  criti- 
cism), Uppsala,  1921,  v.  15,  p.  262-265,  *OAA; 
Althiops  (by  Sylvain  Grebaut),  Paris,  1923,  annee  2, 
p.  30,  *OED. 

Mikha'il  Jirgis  al  Habashi.  Al-Malhat  al 
jaliyyat  fi  ma'rifat  al-loghat.  Bulak,  1289 
Heg.  [=  a.  d.  1872.]  92  p.  8°.  *  OEC 

Lithographed. 

A  series  of  vocabularies,  Arabic  and  Ethiopic, 
accompanied  by  dialogues  and  anecdotes. 

Mittwoch,  Eugen.  Die  traditionelle  Aus- 
sprache  des  Athiopischen.  (Berlin.  —  Uni- 
versitat:  Seminar  fur  orientalische  Sprachen. 
Mitteilungen.  Berlin,  1925.  8°.  Jahrg.  28, 
Zweite  Abteilung,  Westasiatische  Studien, 
p.  126-248.)  *  OAA 

    Berlin   und   Leipzig:  Verlag 

von  Walter  De  Gruyter  &  Co.,  1926.  4  p.l., 
129  p.  8°.  (Abessinische  Studien.  Heft  1.) 

*OED 

Reviewed  in  Journal  asiatique  (by  Marcel  Cohen), 
Paris,  1927,  tome  210,  p.  176-181,  *OAA. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Die  traditionelle  Aus- 
sprache  des  Aethiopischen.  (Deutsche  Li- 
teraturzeitung.  Berlin,  1926.  4°.  col.  1903- 
1908.)  NAA 

Based  on  Mittwoch's  Die  traditionelle  Aussprache 
des  Athiopischen. 

Mueller,  Friedrich.  Ueber  den  Ursprung 
der  himjarisch-athiopischen  Schrift.  1  table. 
(Kaiserliche  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften. 
Sitzungsberichte :  Philosophisch-historische 
Classe.  Wien,  1865.  8°.  Bd.  49,  p.  705-712.) 

*  EF 

Nix,  L.  Zur  Erklarung  der  semitischen 
Verbalformen.  (Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie. 
Weimar,  1895.  8°.  Bd.  10,  p.  174-192.) 

*OCL 

Noeldeke,  Theodor.  Lehnworter  in  und 
aus  dem  Athiopischen.  (In  his:  Neue  Bei- 
trage zur  semitischen  Sprachwissenschaft. 
Strassburg:  Karl  J.  Trubner,  1910.  8°.  p. 
31-66.)  *  OBF 

Hebraische  und  aramaische  Worter  im  Athio- 
pischen, p.  32-46.  Athiopische  Fremdworter  im 
Arabischen,  p.  46-60.  Anhang:  tlber  einige  dem 
Arabischen  und  Athiopischen  gemeinsame  Worter, 
p.  60-64.  Index,  p.  65-66. 

O'Leary,  DeLacy  Evans.  Comparative 
grammar  of  the  Semitic  languages.  Lon- 
don: Kegan  Paul,  Trench,  Trubner  &  Co., 
Ltd.,  1923.  xv,  280  p.  8°.  (Trubner's  Ori- 
ental series.)  *  OAC 

Bibliography,  p.  v-viii. 

Otho,  Andreas.  Glossarium  linguarum 
orientalium  octuplex:  Hebraicum,  Chaldai- 
cum,  Syriacum,  Samaritanum,  Arabicum, 
^Ethiopicum,    Persicum,    et  Rabbinicum, 


26 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Ethiopic  Language,  continued. 

quod  editae  nuper  grammatical  Altingii  poly- 
glottae  junctum,  orientalium  linguarum 
studiosis  clavis  vice,  ad  praemissam  Ori- 
entalium lingguarum  palaestram  invervire 
queat.  Ex  textibus  in  palaestra  propositis 
collectum  &  ordine  alphabetico  dispositum, 
ab  Andrea  Othone.  (In:  Georg  Otho, 
Palaestra  linguarum  orientalium. .. Franco- 
fvrti  ad  Moenvm,  mdccii.  4°.  [Part  2,]  p.  55- 
147.)  *  PDP 

Glossarium  ^Ethiopicvm,  p.  100-106. 

Otho,  Georg.  Synopsis  institutionum  Sa- 
maritanarum,  Rabbinicarum,  Arabicarum, 
^thiopicarum  et  Persicarum.  Ex  optimis 
quibusque  auctoribus  excerpta  &  ad  meth- 
odum  Chaldaismi  &  Syriasmi  clarissimi  Al- 
tingii sic  adornata,  ut  sectio  sectioni  et  para- 
graphus  paragrapho,  quantum  per  singu- 
larum  naturam  licuit,  respondeat...  Editio 
tertia.  Francofurti  ad  Moenum:  Sumptibus 
Friderici  Dan.  Knochii,  m  dcc  xxxv.  12°. 
(8°.)  *OBF 

Bound  with:  Jacob  Alting,  Fundamenta  puncta- 
tionis  linguae  sanctae. . .  Francofurti  ad  Moenum, 
1746. 

The  Synopsis  institutionum  Samaritanarum  and 
Synopsis  institutionum  Rabbinicarum  are  paged  sep- 
arately; the  remaining  parts  are  paged  erratically; 
the  Synopsis  institutionum  ^Ethiopicarum  being  paged 
57-118  following  p.  88  of  the  Arabic  synopsis. 

Perini,  Ruffillo.  Gl'idiomi  parlati  nella 
nostra  Colonia.  (Societa  geografica  italiana. 
Bollettino.  Roma,  1892.  8°.  serie  3,  v.  5,  p. 
54-67.)  KAA 

With  vocabularies  of  Italiano,  Arabo,  Amarico, 
Tigre,  Tigregna,  Saho,  Dancal,  Agau,  Hadendoa,  o 
Adaro,  Baria  and  Baza,  on  p.  60-63. 

Through  error  this  article  was  attributed  to  Captain 
L.  Bettini,  killed  during  an  encounter  with  the  Abys- 
sinians  in  1893. 

Plazkowski,  Hermine  (Brauner).  Ein 
athiopisch-amharisches  Glossar  (Sawasew). 
(Berlin.  —  Universitat :  Seminar  fiir  ori- 
entalische  Sprachen.  Mitteilungen.  Berlin, 
1914.  8°.  Jahrg.  17,  Zweite  Abteilung,  West- 
asiatische  Studien,  p.  1-96.)  *  OAA 

 Berlin  [1913].   1  p.l.,  98  p.  8°. 

Dissertation,  Berlin.  *  O  AC  p.V.23 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz.  Die 
abessinischen  Dialekte  und  das  Sabao- 
Minaische.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Ge- 
sellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1905-10.  8°. 
Bd.  59,  p.  196-198;  Bd.  60,  p.  261-263;  Bd. 
61,  p.  255-256;  Bd.  62,  p.  166-167;  Bd.  63, 
p.  219-220;  Bd.  64,  p.  264-265.)         *  OAA 

  Athiopisch      ser'  Griechenland. 

(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1919.  8°.  Bd.  73,  p. 
244.)  *  OAA 

 Athiopische  Etymologien.  (Deutsche 

morgenlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1907-08.  8°.  Bd.  61,  p.  615-624; 
Bd.  62,  p.  748-753.)  *  OAA 

See  also  note  in  Bd.  61,  p.  951. 


  Athiopische  Grammatik  mit  Para- 

digmen,  Litteratur,  Chrestomathie  und 
Glossar.  Karlsruhe  und  Leipzig:  H.  Reu- 
ther  [etc.],  1886.  x,  164,  65  p.  16°.  (Porta 
linguarum  Orientalium.  vn.)  *  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Hebraica  (by  Robert  F.  Harper),  New 
Haven,  1887,  v.  3,  p.  58-59,  *OBA;  Bibliotheca  sacra, 
Oberlin,  Ohio,  1888,  v.  44,  p.  198,  *DA;  Deutsche 
Litteratur-Zeitung  (by  J.  Barth),  Berlin,  1887,  Jahrg. 
8,  p.  1302-1303,  NAA. 

  Beitrage  zur  athiopischen  Gram- 
matik und  Etymologic  (Beitrage  zur  As- 
syriologie  und  vergleichenden  semitischen 
Sprachwissenschaft.  Leipzig,  1890.  8°.  Bd. 
1,  p.  21-47,  369-378.)  *  OCL 

 Hamatische  Bestandtheile  im  Aethi- 

opischen.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Ge- 
sellschaft. Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1889.  8°. 
Bd.  43,  p.  317-326.)  .  *  OAA 

 Kuschitische  Bestandtheile  im  Aeth- 

iopischen.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Ge- 
sellschaft. Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1893.  8°. 
Bd.  47,  p.  385-394.)  *  OAA 

On  the  relationship  of  Ethiopic  with  the  Hamitic 
languages. 

  Der  Name  Adulis.  (Deutsche  mor- 
genlandische Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1893.  8°.  Bd.  47,  p.  396.)    *  OAA 

Rejects  the  hypothesis  of  Lagarde,  who  equated 
the  name  with  Hebrew  'Adullam,  and  shows  that  it  is 
from  Cushitic  'ad,  "town,  tribe." 

 Noch  ein  Dualrest  im  Aethiopischen. 

(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1893.  8°.  Bd.  47,  p. 
395.)  *  OAA 

  Sabaisches     und  Athiopisches. 

(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1903.  8°.  Bd.  57,  p. 
271-275.)  *  OAA 

 Die  Zahlmethode  in  der  athiopischen 

Gruppe  der  hamitischen  Sprachen.  (Deutsche 
morgenlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1870.  8°.  Bd.  24,  p.  415-424.) 

*OAA 

  Zur  aethiopisch-arabischen  Gram- 
matik. (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesell- 
schaft. Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1873.  8°.  Bd. 
27,  p.  639-644.)  *  OAA 

Reckendorf,  H.  Weitere  Duale  in  Aethi- 
opischen. (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Ge- 
sellschaft. Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1894.  8°. 
Bd.  48,  p.  380.)  *  OAA 

Reinisch,  Leo.  1st  Ge'ez  sarat  'camel- 
opardalis'  etymologisch  =  [Arabic]  zarrafah? 
(Vienna  oriental  journal.  Vienna,  1896.  8°. 
v.  10,  p.  357.)  *OAA 

  Das  personliche  Fiirwort  und  die 

Verbalflexion  in  den  Chamito-Semitischen 
Sprachen.  Wien:  Alfred  Holder,  1909.  3 
p.l.,  327  p.  8°.  (Kaiserliche  Akademie  der 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Ethiopic  Language,  continued. 

Wissenschaften  zu  Wien.  —  Sprachenkom- 
mission.   Schriften.  Bd.  1.)  *  OAR 

Das  selbstiindige  Fiirwort  im  Amharina  und  Tigray, 
p.  141-154;  im  Nordathiopischen  und  Arabischen,  p. 
158-159.   Das  Gerundiv  im  Athiopischen,  p.  203-204. 

Ruzicka,  Rudolf.  Konsonantische  Dis- 
similation in  den  semitischen  Sprachen. 
Leipzig:  J.  C.  Hinrichs'sche  Buchhandlung, 
1909.  iv,  268  p.  8°.  (Beitrage  zur  Assyri- 
ologie  und  semitischen  Sprachwissenschaft. 
[Bd.]  6,  [Heft]  4.)  *  OCL 

Sapeto,  Giuseppe.  Prodromo  alio  studio 
della  Cussitide  abissina  e  delle  due  lingue 
gheez  ed  amhara.  (International  Congress 
of  Orientalists,  4th,  Florence,  1878.  Atti. 
Firenze,  1880.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  97-140.)     *  OAA 

p.  138-140  contain  a  "Catalogo  delle  pergamene 
gheez"  classified  according  to  subject. 

Schrader,  Eberhard.  De  linguae  aethiopi- 
cae  cum  cognatis  Unguis  comparatae  indole 
universa...  Gottingae:  Typis  expressit  of- 
ficina  Academica  Dieterichiana  (Guil.  Fr. 
Kaestner),  1860.  vi  p.,  1  L,  104  p.  4°.  *  OEC 

Schweinfurth,  Georg  August.  Abyssin- 
ische  Pflanzennamen:  eine  alphabetische 
Aufzahlung  von  Namen  einheimischer  Ge- 
wachse  in  Tigrinja,  sowie  in  anderen  semi- 
tischen und  hamitischen  Sprachen  von 
Abyssinien.  Berlin,  1893.  84  p.  4°.  (Konig- 
liche  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  Ab- 
handlungen  aus  dem  Jahre  1893.)       *  EE 

The  names  of  the  plants  are  given  in  Tigrina, 
Tigre,  Amharic,  Agau  or  Khamir,  Bilin,  and  Saho. 

Stade,  Bernhard.  Ueber  den  Ursprung 
der  mehrlautigen  Thatworter  der  Ge'ez- 
sprache.  Leipzig:  S.  Hirzel,  1871.  2  p.l., 
72  p.  8°.  *  OEC 

Taylor,  Isaac.  The  Ethiopic  alphabet.  (In 
his:  The  alphabet:  an  account  of  the  origin 
and  development  of  letters.  London:  Kegan 
Paul,  Trench,  &  Co.,  1883.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  349- 
357.)  RAH 

Trumpp,  Ernst.  Ueber  den  Accent  in 
Aethiopischen.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische 
Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1874.  8°. 
Bd.  28,  p.  515-561.)  *  OAA 

Viscasillas,  Mariano.  Paralelo  entre  los 
verbos  defectivos  arabes  y  los  respectivos 
hebreos,  caldeos,  siriacos  y  etiopes.  (In: 
Homenaje  a  D.  Francisco  Codera.  Zara- 


27 

goza:  Mariano  Escar,  1904.  4°.  p.  51-66, 
51a-61a.)  f*  OAC 

Vittorio,  Mariano.  Chaldeae,  sev  Aethio- 
picae  lingvae  institvtiones.  Opus  vtile,  ac 
eruditum.  [By  Mariano  Vittorio.]  Romae: 
Typis  Sac.  Congregationis  de  Propaganda 
Fide,  mdcxxx.  4  p.  1.,  86  p.  16°.        *  OEC 

A  re-issue  of  the  original  edition  of  1552  by 
Achille  Venerio,  with  omission  of  the  introduction 
by  Cardinal  Marcello  Cervini  (afterwards  Pope  Mar- 
cellus  ii.),  the  chapter  "De  musica  Aethiopum,"  and 
the  list  of  "omnivm  Aethiopiae  Regvm,  qvi  ab  invn- 
dato  terrarum  orbe  vsqve  ad  nostra  tempora  im- 
perarunt."  The  1552  edition  was  the  first  Ethiopia 
grammar  printed. 

Wemmers,  Jacob.  Zentii  mashaf  zalesdna 
Ge'ez  zaysamay  Kaledawi  zayaemeru  kuil- 
omu  sab'e  Itlyopya  tagabara  ba'eda  Abba 
Yaeqdb  Wemmers  Antivcrplyawi.  Lexicon 
Aethiopicvm  ad  eminentiss.  principem  S.  R. 
E.  Card.  Antonivm  Barberinvm  in  quo 
omnes  voces  linguae  Ge'ez  quae  &  Chaldsea 
dicitur,  ex  Aethiopum  libris,  &  monumentis 
nunc  primum  collectae,  ordine  alphabetico, 
sub  suis  singula?  radicibus  digestae,  contin- 
entur,  &  explicantur.  Cum  eiusdem  linguae 
institutionibus  grammat.  &  indice  vocum 
latinarum.  Authore  R.  P.  M.  Iacobo  Wem- 
mers Antverpiano. . .  Romae:  Typis  &  im- 
pensis  Sac.  Congreg.  de  Propaganda  Fide, 
1638.  8  p.l.,  319  (1)  p.,  1  1.  (blank),  47  p., 
28  1.  4°.  *OEC 

p.  1—47  at  end  contain:  Institvtiones  grammaticae 
lingvae  [Ge'ez],  pars  prima.  De  recta  legendi  ra- 
tione.  The  28  1.  contain:  Index  vocvm  Latinarvm 
inserviens  pro  lexico  Latino-^thiopico. 

"Valde  mancum  &  imperfectum."  —  Ludolf. 

Wright,  William.  Lectures  on  the  com- 
parative grammar  of  the  Semitic  languages. 
Cambridge:  University  Press,  1890.  xi,  288 
p.  8°.  *OBF 

Edited  with  preface  by  W.  Robertson  Smith. 

Wutz,  Franz  Xavier.  Onomastica  sacra. 
Untersuchungen  zum  liber  interpretationis 
nominum  Hebraicorum  des  hi.  Hieronymus. 
Leipzig:  J.  C.  Hinrichs,  1915.  2  v.  8°.  (Texte 
und  Untersuchungen  zur  Geschichte  der 
altchristlichen  Literatur.  Reihe  3,  Bd.  11, 
der  ganzen  Reihe  Bd.  41.)         ZE  (Texte) 

Continuous  pagination. 

Athiopische  Onomastica,  p.  1004-1035. 

Zimmern,  Heinrich.  Vergleichende  Gram- 
matik  der  semitischen  Sprachen.  Elemente 
der  Laut-  und  Formenlehre.  Mit  einer 
Schrifttafel  von  Julius  Euting.  Berlin:  Reu- 
ther  &  Reichard,  1898.  xi,  194  p.,  1  folded 
table.  12°.  *  OBF 


Ethiopic  Literature 


Ahikar: 

Harris,  James  Rendel.  Aethiopic  frag- 
ments of  the  sayings  of  Ahikar.  (In:  Ahikar, 
The  story  of  Ahikar  from  the  Syriac,  Arabic 
[etc.].  London:  C.  J.  Clay  and  Sons,  1898. 
8°.  p.  85-86.)  *OAT 

Translated  from  Cornill's  Mashaf  a  Falasfa  Tabitan. 


Nau,  Frangois  Nicolas.  La  version  ethio- 
pienne.  (In  his:  Histoire  et  sagesse  d'Ahi- 
kar  l'Assyrien...  Paris:  Letouzey  et  Ane, 
1909.  8°.  p.  89-92.)  *  OAT 

Ammonius  of  Alexandria.  See  under  Gre- 
baut,  Sylvain.  Les  dix  canons. 


28 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Ethiopic  Literature,  continued. 

Athanasius,  bishop  of  Antioch.  The  con- 
flict of  Severus,  patriarch  of  Antioch,  by 
Athanasius.  Ethiopic  text  edited  and  trans- 
lated by  Edgar  J.  Goodspeed.  With  the  re- 
mains of  the  Coptic  versions,  by  W.  E. 
Crum.  Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.  [1908.] 
3  p.  1.,  (1)576-725(1)  p.  4°.  (Patrologia  Ori- 
entalis.  tome  4,  fasc.  6.)  *  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Rivista  degli  studi  orientali  (by 
Ignazio  Guidi),  Roma,  1909,  v.  2,  p.  94-97,  *  OAA. 

Baarlam  and  Joasaph.  Baralam  and  Yew- 
asef;  being  the  Ethiopic  version  of  a  Chris- 
tianized recension  of  the  Buddhist  legend 
of  the  Buddha  and  the  Bodhisattva.  The 
Ethiopic  text  edited  for  the  first  time  with 
an  English  translation  and  introduction,  etc., 
by  Sir  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge...  Cambridge: 
University  Press,  1923.  2  v.  facsims.,  plates. 
8°.  *OEG 

v.  1 :  Ethiopic  text. 

v.  2 :  The  introduction,  English  translation,  etc. 
With  seventy-two  plates. 

Zotenberg,  Hermann.  Notice  sur  le  livre 
de  Barlaam  et  Joasaph,  accompagnee  d'ex- 
traits  du  texte  grec,  et  des  versions  arabe  et 
ethiopienne.  Paris:  Imprimerie  nationale, 
1886.  3  p.l.,  166  p.  8°.  *  OFC 

Extraits  de  la  version  ethiopienne,  p.  158-166. 
I.  Les  trois  rencontres,  u.  Parabole  des  quatre  boites. 
in.  Parabole  de  l'oiseau.   IV.  Parabole  de  l'unicorne. 

Bachmann,  Johannes.  Das  Leben  und  die 
Sentenzen  des  Philosophen  Secundus  des 
Schweigsamen.  Nach  dem  Athiopischen 
und  Arabischen. . .  Halle  a.S.:  Aus  der  Of- 
ficin  von  W.  Drugulin,  1887.  2  p.l.,  34  p. 
8°.  *OEG 

Bachmann,  Johannes,  editor.  Aethiopische 
Lesestiicke.  Inedita  Aethiopica  fur  den  Ge- 
brauch  in  Universitats-Vorlesungen.  Leip- 
zig: J.  C.  Hinrichs'sche  Buchhandlung,  1893. 
2  p.l.,  50  p.  8°.  *OEC 

Contents:  (1)  Geschichte  des  armen.  Konigs  Ter- 
tag.  (2)  Brief  des  Jeremia.  (3)  Legenden  iiber 
Jeremia.  (4)  Konig  Ijasu  II.  [1730-1755]  und  der 
Konigin  Mutter  Walatta  Giorgis  Verdienste  um  die 
Erbauung  des  makdasa  selus  qedus.  (5)  Die  Schenk- 
ungsurkunde.  (6)  Dersan  iiber  den  hi.  Michael.  (7) 
Brief  des  abessin.  Konigs  Malak  Sagad  [regnal  name 
of  Sarga  Dengel,  to  King  Philip  n.  of  Spain].  (8) 
EuayQiou  JlEQl  TCOV  oxxco  XoyiG\i(iiv.  (9)  Ein 
Fragment  aus  der  abessin.  Landesgeschichte. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  des  traditions  populaires  (by 
Rene  Basset),  Paris,  1893,  tome  8,  p.  293-294,  ZBA. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Sopra  due  degli  "Aethio- 
pische Lesestiicke"  del  Dr.  Bachmann. 
(Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie.  Weimar,  1896. 
8°.  Bd.  11,  p.  401-416.)  *OCL 

Bachmann,  Johannes.  Tebaba  sekendus 
wazena  Tertdg  negus  Armanyd.  Die  Phi- 
losophic des  Neopythagoreers  Secundus. 
Linguistisch-philosophische  Studie.  Berlin: 
Mayer  &  Miiller,  1888.  68  p.,  1  1.,  47,  2,  13 
p.,  2  1.,  8,  26  p.  8°.  *OEG 

Anhang:  1.  Arabischer  Text  der  "Milchmadchen- 
Fabel."    2.  Geschichte  des  armenischen  Konigs  Ter- 


tag.  Aethiopisch-Deutsch.  3.  Unedirte  lateinische 
Secundus-Handschriften.  p.  64-68:  Conspectus  fiber 
die  gesammte  Secundus-Litteratur. 

Reviewed  in  Literarisches  Centralblatt  (by  F. 
H[ommel]),  Leipzig,  1890,  Jahrg.  1890,  col.  519- 
520,  NAA. 

Bailey,  Moses.  See  under  Zar'a  Ya'qob. 

Basset,  Rene  Maria  Joseph.  Deux  lettres 
ethiopiennes  du  xvie  siecle.  Memoire  traduit 
sur  le  texte  portugais  de  M.  Esteves  Pe- 
reira.  (Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Giornale. 
Roma,  1889.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  58-79.)         *  OAA 

1.  Lettre  de  Saga  za  Ab  a  Lebna-Dengel,  roi 
d'fithiopie.   p.  58-73. 

2.  Lettre  du  roi  d'£thiopie  Galaoudeouos  (Claudius) 
au  roi  de  Portugal  D.  Joao  in.  p.  74-79. 

  La   legende   des   sept-dormants.  I. 

Une  variante  ethiopienne.  (Melusine.  Paris, 
1887.  f°.  tome  3,  col.  176-177.)         f  ZBA 

  Les  legendes  de  S.  Tertag  et  de  S. 

Sousnyos.  (In  his:  Melanges,  africains  et 
orientaux.  Paris,  1915.  8°.  p.  250-277.) 

*OAC 

Be'ela  Nagastat: 

The  Book  of  the  riches  of  kings.  (In: 
Sir  E.  A.  T.  Wallis  Budge,  The  life  of  Takla 
Haymanot...  London,  1906.  f°.  p.  346- 
352.)  ft*  OEE 

The  Ethiopic  text  is  at  the  end  of  the  volume,  p. 
139-141. 

The  authorship  of  the  tract  is  attributed  to  S.  Takla 

Haymanot. 

Bogatstvo  tsarei.  Traktat  o  dinastiches- 
kon  perevorotye  v  Abissinii  v  xm  veke. 
(Imperatorskavo  Russkavo  Archeologiches- 
kavo  Obschestva.  Zapiski  Vostochnavo 
Otdeleniya.  S.  Peterburg,  1901.  4°.  torn.  13, 
vyp.  2-3,  p.  157-171.)  *  QCB 

Ethiopic  text  and  Russian  translation  by  B.  Tura- 
yev. 

 Reprint.  *  OEF 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  La  versione  amarica 
del  Be'ela  Nagast.  (Reale  accademia  naz- 
ionale  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di 
scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma, 
1923.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  31,  p.  23-38.)         *  ER 

p.  35-38  discuss  the  date  of  the  composition  of 
this  work  and  conclude  "Non  e  forse  improbabile  che 
l'opera  sia  stata  stesa  appunto  poco  dopo  il  1747." 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  II  Be'ela  nagast.  (In:  Ori- 
ental studies  published  in  commemoration 
of  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  Paul  Haupt  as 
director  of  the  Oriental  Seminary  of  the 
Johns  Hopkins  University.  Baltimore,  1926. 
8°.  p.  403-409.)  *  OAC 

"E  per  riassumere  quanto  ho  esposto,  diro  che 
probabilmente  il  Be'ela  Nagast  fu  composto  fra  il 
1780  e  il  1790  incirca,  forse  da  qualche  monaco  dell' 
ordine  di  Takla  Haymanot,  il  quale  ad  una  leggenda 
popolare  agguinse  quella  di  codesto  santo  cosi  venerato, 
a  sostegno  del  re  Takla  Ghiorghis,  imitando  nel  titolo 
un'  opera,  non  dissimile  negl'  intendimenti,  ma  im- 
mensamente  piu  importante,  cioe  il  Kebra  Nagast." 

Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson  Wal- 
lis. See  under  Baarlam  and  Joasaph;  and 
Life  and  exploits. . . 


ETHIOP1CA  AND  AMHARICA 


29 


Ethiopic  Literature,  continued. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Aethiopica.  (Rivista 
degli  studi  orientali.  Roma,  1923-25.  8°. 
v.  9,  p.  365-381,  449-468;  v.  10,  p.  481-520.) 

*OAA 

The  first  instalment  reviewed  in  JEthiops,  Paris, 
1923,  annee  2,  p.  46-47. 

Contents:  (1)  II  culto  dell'  aquila.  (2)  La  dea 
Terra.  (3)  Antropofagia  magica.  (4)  Ty.  Habaza  n. 
pr.  hom.  (5)  Sull'  etimologia  del  titolo  belattcngeta. 
(6)  Ty.  maqet  "vassallo."  (7)  Ty.  gazm'x  "dote." 
(8)  Sul  nome  proprio  di  donna  Terda'gabaz.  (9)  Sui 
nomi  dei  mesi.  (10)  Amh.  ty.  galamotd  "meretrice." 
(11)  Marciano  d  Eraclea  e  lo  Iemen.  (12)  Domini 
iemeniti  sulle  coste  etiopiche  e  somale.  (13)  II  Kitab 
at-tanblh  e  le  miniere  d'oro  eritree.  (14)  L'Africa 
Orientale  nello  Uns  al-tnuhag  di  Edrisi.  (15)  Un 
editto  di  re  Zar'a  Ya'qob  per  l'Eritrea.  (16)  Sulla 
politica  abissini  verso  i  musulmani  dei  NE  nei  secoli 
xiv,  xv,  e  xvi.  (17)  Gimel  capo  del  Bur  (til  marzo 
1529).  (18)  Scritti  della  regina  'Elleni:  Hohta  berhan 
e  'Enzird  Scbhat.  (19)  Sul  convento  di  Santo  Stefano 
dei  Mori.  (20)  Iscrizione  etiopica  di  Deyr  el-Abyad. 
(21)  Canti  amarici  per  Gran,  Lebna  Dengel  e  Galaw- 
dewos.  (22)  II  canto  tigrai  su  deggiac  Danges.  (23) 
Una  nota  tigrai  in  un  ms.  d'Abbadie.  (24)  Vestigia 
di  causativo  in  ha-.  (25)  Caus.  amarico  in  as-.  (26) 
I  nomi  dei  cani  d'un  Faraone.  (27)  Negus.  (28)  Le 
origine  divine  dei  re  d'Aksum.  (29)  Le  rovine  di 
Dahane.  (30)  Le  rovine  di  Saro.  (31)  L'iscrizione  di 
Sembrouthes.  (32)  Sul  culto  dell'  avoltoio.  (33)  Sui 
nomi  di  mese.  (34)  Aksum  e  Palmira.  (35)  Sulla 
fine  della  signoria  aksumita  in  Arabia.  (36)  Con- 
corsi  bizantini  alia  costruzione  di  chiese  aksumite. 
(37)  Sul  n.pr.  dabru.  (38)  Sulla  regina  Esato  o 
Guedit.  (39)  Su  taluni  nomi  di  antichi  fondatori  di 
stirpi.  (40)  Sull'  autore  del  Mashafa  Hawi.  (41) 
Sull  autore  e  sulla  data  del  Kebra  Nagast.  (42)  Un 
catalogo  di  libri  dell'  anno  1425.  (43)  Pellegrini 
abissini  in  Egitto.  (44)  Un  canto  in  onore  di  re 
Zar'a  Ya'qob  e  gli  Stefaniti.  (45)  Sul  Deggua.  (46) 
Dipinti  abissini  in  Egitto.   (47)  Enqutatas. 

  II  discorso  su  Monte  Coscam  attri- 

buito  a  Teofilo  d'Alessandria  nella  versione 
etiopica.  (Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Ren- 
diconti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e 
filologiche.  Roma,  1912.  8°.  v.  21,  p.  395- 
471.)  *  ER 

Ethiopic  text  and  Italian  translation. 

  II  Libro  delle  leggende  e  tradizioni 

abissine  dell'  ecciaghie  Filpos.  (Reale  ac- 
cademia nazionale  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche. Roma,  1917.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  26,  p. 
699-718.)  *  ER 

Reviewed  in  JEthiops  (by  S.  Grebaut),  Paris,  1923, 
annee  2,  p.  15-16. 

A  collection  of  Ethiopian  legends  written  by  the 
Echage  Filpos  of  the  church  of  Mahdara  Maryam. 
The  collection  was  translated  into  French  by  Antoine 
d'Abbadie,  and  it  is  his  translation  that  is  printed 
here  with  notes  by  Conti  Rossini. 

  Note  etiopiche.  L  Una  guerra  fra  la 

Nubia  e  l'Etiopia  nel  secolo  VTL  n.  Leg- 
gende  tigray.  nt  Sovra  una  tradizione  bilin. 
(Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Giornale.  Firenze, 
1897.  8°.  v.  10,  p.  141-156.)  *  OAA 

 Nuovi  appunti  sui  giudei  d'Abissinia. 

(Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche. Roma,  1922.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  31,  p. 
221-240.)  *  ER 

From  Ms.  Abbadie  107,  f.  21r. 


Cornill,  Carl  Heinrich.  See  under  Ma- 
shafa. 

Crum,  Walter  E.  See  under  Athanasius. 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
Chrestomathia  Aethiopica  edita  et  glossaria 
explanata  ab  Augusto  Dillmann.  Lipsiae: 
T.  O.  Weigel,  1866.  xvi,  290  p.,  1  1.  8°. 

*OEE 

Contents:  1.  Liber  Baruch,  p.  1-15.  2.  De  viris 
Sanctis.  E  Synaxariis  (a.  De  Melchisedec.  b.  De 
Marco  Evangelista.  c.  De  Dionysio  M.,  Patriarcha 
Alexandriae.  d.  De  Macario  M.  e.  De  Abba  Salami, 
f.  De  Jared,  musico.  g.  De  Tacla  Haimanot),  p.  16- 
39.  3.  Sententiae,  e  "libro  philosophorum"  excerptae, 
p.  40-45.  4.  Preces  officii  matutini,  p.  46-50.  5. 
Oratio  eucharistica  Joannis  Chrysostomi,  p.  51-56. 
6.  Regulae  Pachomii,  p.  57-69.  7.  Epistolae  (a. 
Epistola  Joannis  Antiocheni  ad  Cyrillum  missa.  b. 
Epistola  Cyrilli  ad  Joannem),  p.  70-76.  8.  Sermones 
vel  homiliae  (a.  Homilia  Severiani  Gabalorum.  b. 
Cyrilli  de  Melchisedec  homilia  prior,  c.  Cyrilli  de 
Melchisedec  altera,  d.  Homilia  Severi,  episcopi  Syn- 
nadorum.  e.  Homilia  Juvenalis,  Hierosolymitani.  f. 
Homilia  Eusebii,  episcopi  Heracleae.  g.  Homilia  Theoj 
doti,  episcopi  Ancyrae.  h.  Homilia  Firmi,  episcopi 
Caesareae),  p.  77-107.  9.  Carmina  (a.  Sapiens  Sa- 
pientium.  b.  Congregatio  fidelium.  c.  Effigies  Mariae. 
d.  Salam  ad  Mariam.  e.  Gloria  tibi),  p.  108-149. 
10.  Antiphonae  in  festum  Joannis  Baptistae,  primo 
anni  Abyssinorum  die,  p.  150-158.  Glossarium,  p. 
161-290. 

Euringer,  Sebastian.  Die  Auffassung  des 
Hohenliedes  bei  den  Abessiniern.  Ein  his- 
torisch-exegetischer  Versuch.  Leipzig:  J. 
C.  Hinrichs'sche  Buchhandlung,  1900.  vi, 
47  p.  8°.  *OEE 

  Biblische   Ratsel.    (Zeitschrift  fiir 

Semitistik  und  verwandte  Gebiete.  Leipzig, 
1927.  8°.  Bd.  5,  p.  295-311.)  *  OAA 

p.  301-311  are  Ethiopic. 

Eusebius  Pamphili,  bishop  of  Caesarea. 
See  under  Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Les  dix  canons. 

Fasti  sacri  ecclesiae  yEthiopicae,  quae  an- 
num cum  Coptitis  ^gypti  in  autumno  ordi- 
tur.  (In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad  suam  historiam 
/Ethiopicam  commentarius.  Francofurti : 
Sumptibus  Johannis  David  Zvnneri,  1691.  f°. 
p.  389-427.)  *  KB 

The  calendar  printed  in  red  and  black,  in  three 
columns:  Aethiopic,  Coptic,  and  versio  Latina. 
Annotationes,  p.  428-436. 

Fetha  Nagast: 

II  "Fetha  Nagast"  o  "Legislazione  dei 
re,"  codice  ecclesiastico  e  civile  di  Abissinia 
pubblicato  da  Ignazio  Guidi.  Roma:  Tipo- 
grafia  della  Casa  editrice  italiana,  1897.  ix 
p.,  1  1.,  339  p.  4°.  (R.  Instituto  orientale  in 
Napoli.  Pubblicazioni  scientifiche.  tomo  2.) 
The  first  edition  of  the  text.  f  *  OEG 

The  Fetha  Nagast,  "Law  of  the  kings,"  the  official 
law-code  of  Abyssinia,  civil,  criminal,  and  ecclesias- 
tical, is  little  more  than  a  book  of  ecclesiastical  law. 
It  is  a  sixteenth  century  translation  of  the  Nomocanon 
of  Abu  Ishaq  ibn  al  'Assail,  composed  in  Egypt  in 
the  thirteenth  century. 

II  "Fetha  Nagast,"  o  "Legislazione  dei 
re."  Codice  ecclesiastico  e  civile  di  Abis- 
sinia, tradotto  e  annotato  de  Ignazio  Guidi. 
Roma:  Tipografia  della  Casa  editrice  ital- 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


30 

Ethiopic  Literature,  continued. 

iana,  1899.  xvi,  551  p.  4°.  (R.  Institute  ori- 
entate in  Napoli.  Pubblicazioni  scientifiche. 
tomo  3.)  t*  OEN 

Reviewed  in  Wiener  Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des 
Morgenlandes  (by  Maximilian  Bittner),  Wien,  1899, 
Bd.  13,  p.  370-385,  *  OAA. 

Corpus  iuris  Abessinorum  textum  Aethio- 
picum  Arabicumque  ad  manuscriptorum 
fidem  cum  versione  Latina  et  dissertatione 
iuridico-historica  edidit  Dr.  Johannes  Bach- 
mann.  Pars  i.  Jus  connubii.  Berolini:  F. 
Schneider  &  Co.,  1889.  xlii,  104  p.  4°. 

t*  OEG 

Reviewed  in  Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie  (by  H. 
Winckler),  Bd.  5,  p.  307-312,  *OCL. 

Bachmann,  Johannes.  Das  Rechtsbuch 
der  Abessinier.  (Theologische  Studien  und 
Kritiken.  Gotha,  1892.  8°.  Jahrg.  55,  p.  342- 
346.)  ZEA 

On  the  Fetha  Nagast. 

Filpos,  Echage.  See  under  Conti  Rossini, 
Carlo. 

Galawdewos  [Claudius],  king  of  Abys- 
sinia. Confessio  fidei  Claudii  regis  Aethio- 
piae.  (In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad  suam  historiam 
Aethiopicam. .  .commentarivs.  Francofvrti 
ad  Moenvm,  mdcxci.  f°.  p.  237-241.) 

*  KB 

Text  and  translation.  The  Confessio  was  first 
printed  in  the  first  edition  of  Ludolf's  Lexicon  AZthi- 
opico-Latinum,  London,  1661.  In  this  reprint  the 
notes  are  different  and  the  long  Arabic  extract  from 
Elmacinus  is  omitted. 

The  "Confession"  is  dated:  23  of  the  month  Sane 
(=17  June),  1555.  It  is  a  defence  of  the  creed  of 
the  Abyssinian  Church  against  the  charges  of  the 
Jesuit  Goncales  Rodrigues. 

  The  Confession  of  Claudius.  (  Pres- 
byterian review.  New  York,  1887.  8°.  v.  8, 
p.  33-35.)  *  DA 

Translated  by  George  Henry  Schodde.  Included  in 
his  article  on  "The  church  of  Ethiopia." 

  The  Confession  of  Claudius.  (In: 

J.  M.  Harden,  An  introduction  to  Ethiopic 
Christian  literature.  London,  1926.  12°.  p. 
104-107.)  *OEE 

 [Letter  to  Joao  m.,  king  of  Portugal.] 

See  under  Basset,  Rene.  Deux  lettres  ethio- 
piennes. 

Goodspeed,  Edgar  Johnson.  Tertag  and 
Sarkis:  an  Armenian  folk-tale,  translated 
from  the  Ethiopic.  (American  antiquarian 
and  oriental  journal.  Chicago,  1906.  8°.  v. 
28,  p.  133-140.)  HBA 

Tertag  =  Tiridates?   Sarkis  =  Gregorius? 

 See  also  under  Athanasius. 

Gorgoryos,  Abba.  Briefe  des  Abba 
Gregorius  an  Hiob  Ludolf.  (Beitrage  zur 
Assyriologie.  Leipzig,  1890-94.  8°.  Bd.  1, 
p.  567-582;  Bd.  2,  p.  63-110.)  *  OCL 

Text  and  translation. 


 Epistola  Gregor.  ad  J.  Ernest.  Princ. 

Saxon,  [dated  20  Teqemt  (=  20  October), 
1657].  (In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad  suam  historiam 
/Ethiopicam  commentarius.  Francofurti  ad 
Moenum,  1691.  f  °.  p.  37-38.)  *  KB 

  Epistola  Gregorii  Aeth.  ad  J.  Lu- 

dolfum  [dated  8.  Nahase  (=8  August),  1649]. 
(In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad  suam  historiam 
/Ethiopicam  commentarius.  Francofurti  ad 
Moenum,  1691.  f°.  p.  35-37.)  *  KB 

 Lamentatio  Gregorii  ^Ethiopis  super 

morte  Dn.  Johannis  Ernesti  Saxoniae  Prin- 
cipis,  anno  aetatis  xvii,  pie  defuncti:  ultimo 
anni  m.dc.lvii.  die.  (In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad 
suam  historiam  ^Ethiopicam  commentarius. 
Francofurti  ad  Moenum,  1691.  f°.  p.  39-42.) 

*  KB 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  A  propos  de  la  Reine 
de  Saba.  (/Ethiops.  Paris,  1923.  8°.  annee 
2,  p.  44-45.)  *  OED 

An  unpublished  text  of  the  interview  of  the  Queen 
of  Sheba  with  Solomon. 

  Calculs  et  tables  relatifs  au  comput. 

(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1920/21. 
8°.  serie  3,  tome  2,  p.  212-220.)        *  OAA 

  Chronologie  biblique  d'apres  le  ms. 

ethiopien  no.  3  de  M.  £.  Delorme.  (Revue 
de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1912.  8°.  serie 
2,  tome  7,  p.  306-314.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

  Chronologie  des  patriarches  d'Alex- 

andrie  d'apres  le  ms.  ethiopien  no.  3  de 
M.  £.  Delorme.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chre- 
tien. Paris,  1912-13.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  7, 
p.  302-305;  tome  8,  p.  92-96.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

  Les  dix  canons  d'Eusebe  et  d'Am- 

monius  d'apres  le  ms.  ethiopien  de  M.  £. 
Delorme.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  314- 
317.)  *OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

 Dix  proverbes  ethiopiens.  (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1914.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  9,  p.  98-100,  196-199.)  *  OAA 

  Les  jours  fastes  et  nefastes  d'apres 

le  ms.  ethiopien  no.  3  de  M.  £.  Delorme. 
(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913. 
8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  97-100.)         *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

  La  lettre  et  la  notice  finales  du 

vieillard  spirituel.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chre- 
tien. Paris,  1915/17.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  10, 
p.  77-81.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

"Le  ms.  ethiopien  no.  4  de  M.  £mile  Delorme  con- 
tinent, sous  le  titre  de  'Aragawi  Manfasawi  _  (Le 
vieillard  spirituel),  le  recueil  des  oeuvres  ascetiques 
de  Jean  Saba.  Nous  editons  presentement  la  Lettre 
finale  de  Jean  Saba  a  Tun  de  ses  freres  et  la  Notice 
de  ce  dernier  au  sujet  de  la  redaction  du  Vieillard 
spirituel." 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


31 


Ethiopic  Literature,  continued. 
Grebaut,  Sylvain,  continued. 

  Melanges   ethiopiens.    (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  8,  p.  417-441.)  *  OAA 

I.  Noms  des  femmes  et  enfants  des  fils  de  Jacob. 
II.  Les  miracles  de  saint  enfant  Cyriaque.  ill.  Sen- 
tences ascetiques.  iv.  La  mauvaise  passion  de  l'avarice 
selon  fivagrius.  v.  Recommendations  aux  eveques  et 
aux  pretres.  vi.  Le  sixieme  jour  de  1'Hexameron 
d'fipiphane  de  Chypre. 

 Note  de  chronologie  biblique.  (Revue 

de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1915/17.  8°. 
serie  2,  tome  10,  p.  210.)  *  OAA 

From  Ethiopian  ms.  no.  3  of  Delorme. 

  La  saison  des  pluies.    (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  8,  p.  98-99.)  *  OAA 

From  Delorme  Ethiopic  ms.  no.  3. 
Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

■  Salomon  et  la  Reine  de  Saba  d'apres 

la  ms.  ethiopien  de  M.  £.  Delorme.  (Revue 
de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1912.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  7,  p.  315-318.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

 Les  sept  dormants  d'£phese.  (/Ethi- 

ops.  Paris,  1922.  8°.  annee  1,  p.  52-54.) 

*OED 

  Table  de  comput  et  de  chronologie. 

(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1918/ 
19.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  323-330.)    *  OAA 

p.  329-330:  Appendice.   Les  treize  cycles. 

  Table  des  levers  de  la  lune  pour 

chaque  mois  de  l'annee;  [et]  variations  de 
la  duree  des  jours  et  des  nuits  pour  chaque 
mois  de  l'annee.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chre- 
tien. Paris,  1918/19.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  1, 
p.  422-432.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

  Un  tableau  de  lectures  monacales. 

(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913. 
8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  308-310.)        *  OAA 

This  tableau  "qui  se  trouve  au  dernier  feuillet  du 
ms.  no.  66  d'Abbadie,  est  inscrit  comme  appendice  au 
Synaxaire  ethiopien  (apres  le  mois  de  Paguemen)." 

  Les  tribus  d'origine  des  apotres. 

(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913. 
8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  206-208.)         *  OAA 

"Une  note  du  manuscrit  ethiopien  no.  64  de  Paris 
indique  les  differentes  tribus  d'ou  sont  sortis  les 
douze  apotres." 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Le  canzoni  geez-amarina 
in  onore  di  re  Abissini.  (Reale  accademia  dei 
Lincei.  Atti.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze 
morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1889. 
4°.  serie  4,  v.  5,  p.  53-66.)  *  ER 

Text  only,  with  variant  readings. 

Contains  the  collection  of  the  songs  of  the  four- 
teenth, fifteenth,  and  sixteenth  centuries  in  honor  of 
various  kings  of  Abyssinia.  For  two  other  songs 
discovered  after  the  publication  of  this  essay,  see 
under  Conti  Rossini,  Aethiopica  (1923),  no.  21. 


  Due  notizie  storiche  sull'  Abissinia. 

(Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Giornale.  Roma, 
1889.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  176-179.)  *  OAA 

 II  "Marha  'Ewur."  (Reale  accademia 

dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze 
morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1896. 
8°.  serie  5,  v.  5,  p.  363-385.)  *  ER 

Text. 

"Guide  of  the  blind." 

"Un  trattato  sul  computo  dei  cicli,  la  determinazione 
dei  digiuni  e  delle  feste  ecc." 

Attributed  to  Demetrius  xn.,  patriarch  of  Alex- 
andria, and  translated  from  the  Coptic. 

It  "est  tres  fortement  melangee  d'amarina  et  ce 
dernier  presente  des  formes  archaiques,  plus  regulieres 
qui  les  modernes."  —  R.  Basset. 

  II  mashafa  genzat.   (Biblioteca  Ara- 

brosiana.  Miscellanea  Ceriani.  Milano:  Ul- 
rico  Hoepli,  1910.  8°.  p.  633-639.)  *C 

Office  for  the  dead. 

  Testi  orientali  inediti  sopra  i  sette 

dormienti  di  Efeso.  (Reale  accademia  dei 
Lincei.  Memorie:  Classe  di  scienze  morali, 
storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1884.  4°.  serie 
3,  v.  12,  p.  343-445.)  *  ER 

Testi  etiopici,  p.  404-429. 

 See  also  under  Fetha  Nagast. 

Halevy,  Joseph.  Un  juif  bienheureux. 
(Revue  semitique.  Paris,  1903.  8°.  tome 
11,  p.  70-71.)  *OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

"La  petite  legende  ethiopienne  qui  suit,  traduit 
probablement  du  copte,  fournit  au  contraire  l'example 
beaucoup  plus  rare  d'un  juif  devoue  de  coeur  et 
d'ame  au  culte  ^  de  la  sainte  Vierge,  qui  en  fut 
genereusement  recompense." 

  Qoleyon,  l'aigle  et  les  Nafat.  (Jour- 
nal asiatique.  Paris,  1903.  8°.  serie  10,  tome 
1,  p.  557-558.)  *OAA 

A  Falasha  apocalypse  attributed  to  Baruch. 

"Les  Nafat  paraissent  etre  une  reminiscence  des 
Nobades  ou  Nabades  de  la  Nubie,  peuplades  sur  la 
ferocite  desquelles  de  nombreux  recits  ont  ete  re- 
fandus  au  moyen  age." 

 See  also  under  Te'ezaza  Sanbat. 

Hommel,  Fritz.  Die  aethiopische  Ueber- 
setzung  des  Physiologus  nach  je  einer  Lon- 
doner, Pariser  und  Wiener  Handschrift, 
herausgegeben,  verdeutscht  und  mit  his- 
torischen  Einleitung  versehen.  Leipzig: 
J.  C.  Hinrichs'sche  Buchhandlung,  1877. 
xlv  p.,  1  1.,  166  p.,  1  1.  8°.  *  OEG 

    Der  athiopische  Physiologus 

iibersetzt.  (Romanische  Forschungen.  Er- 
langen,  1890.  8°.  Bd.  5,  p.  13-36.)  RDTA 

Reprinted  here  as  appendix  to  an  article  by  Fried- 
rich  Lauchert,  "Zum  Physiologus." 

The  fortieth  "Rede,"  "Ueber  _  die  drei  tapfern 
Junglinge  und  Daniel,"  is  an  addition. 

The  Life  and  exploits  of  Alexander  the 
Great,  being  a  series  of  Ethiopic  texts  ed- 
ited from  manuscripts  in  the  British  Mu- 
seum and  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  Paris, 
with  an  English  translation  and  notes  by 


32 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Ethiopic  Literature,  continued. 

E.  A.  Wallis  Budge.  London:  C.  J.  Clav 
and  Sons,  1896.  2  v.  4°.  *  OEG 

v.  1 :  The  Ethiopic  text,  introduction,  etc. 
v.  2:  The  English  translation. 

The  frontispiece  to  v.  1  is  a  reproduction  on 
copper  of  the  fine  head  of  Alexander  the  Great  in  the 
British  Museum.   It  was  found  at  Alexandria. 

v.  1 :  Introduction  (A.  The  Ethiopic  manuscripts 
containing  histories  of  Alexander;  B.  The  origin  and 
travels  of  the  Alexander  story).  Translations:  The 
Ethiopic  version  of  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes;  the  his- 
tory of  Alexander  by  Abu  Shaker;  the  history  of  Alex- 
ander by  Joseph  ben-Gorion;  an  anonymous  history 
of  the  death  of  Alexander;  a  Christian  romance  of 
Alexander  the  Great;  the  history  of  the  blessed  men 
who  lived  in  the  days  of  Jeremiah  the  Prophet.  Ap- 
pendix: The  prophecy  of  Daniel  concerning  Alexan- 
der's kingdom;  the  Ethiopic  version  of  i.  Slaccabees 
1.1-6;  extract  from  the  Chronicle  of  John  Mudabbar 
[i.e.,  John,  bishop  of  Nikiu].   Bible  passages.  Index. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  critique  d'histoire  ct  de  litera- 
ture (by  R.  D.),  Paris,  1896,  nouv.  serie,  tome  42, 
p.  162-164,  NAA;  Vienna  Oriental  journal  (by 
Ignazio  Guidi),  Vienna,  1897,  v.  11,  p.  279-287, 
*  OAA. 

The  Life  and  exploits  of  Alexander  the 
Great,  being  a  series  of  translations  of  the 
Ethiopic  histories  of  Alexander  by  the 
Pseudo-Callisthenes  and  other  writers,  with 
introduction,  etc.,  by  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge. 
London:  C.  J.  Clay  and  Sons,  1896.  liv.  610 
p.,  1  port.  8°.  *OEG 

The  text  is  the  same  as  that  in  v.  2  of  the  above 
edition  with  the  introduction  from  v.  1  added.  Five 
hundred  copies  of  this  edition  were  printed. 

Mashafa  falasfa  Tabitan,  Das  Buch  der 
weisen  Philosophen  nach  dem  Aethiop- 
ischen  untersucht.  Eingereicht  von  Carl 
Heinrich  Cornill.  Leipzig:  Druck  von  F.  A. 
Brockhaus,  1875.  59  p.  8°.  *  OEG 

Translated  from  the  Arabic  into  Ethiopic  by 
Bishop  Michael,  son  of  Abba  Michael. 

It  was  also  issued  at  the  same  time  with  the 
Ethiopic  title  at  head  of  title-page  in  transliteration, 
and  with  omission  of  the  Lebeslauf. 

The  passages  quoted  in  the  preface  from  Michael 
the  bishop<  in  praise  of  books  have  been  translated 
into  English  by  W.  E.  A.  Axon,  and  published  in 
The  Library,  London,  1903,  series  2,  v.  4,  p.  367-372, 
*HA. 

Brigham,  Charles  Henry.  Cornill's  exam- 
ination of  the  Aethiopic  book  of  the  "Wise 
Philosopher."  (American  Philological  As- 
sociation. Proceedings.  Hartford,  1877.  8°. 
1875-76,  p.  19-20.)  RAA 

Corxill.  Carl  Heinrich.  Noch  eine 
Handschrift  des  "Sapiens  Sapientium." 
Nachtrag  zu  xxxiv.  232-240.  (Deutsche 
morgenlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1881.  8°.  Bd.  35,  p.  646-653.) 

*OAA 

Trumpp,  Ernst.  Kritische  Bemerkungen 
zum  "Sapiens  Sapientium,"  in  Dillmann's 
Chrestomathia  Aethiopica,  p.  108,  599. 
(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1880.  8°.  Bd.  34,  p. 
232-240.)  *OAA 

p.  241-246:  Zum  Briefbuch. 


Mondon-Vidailhet,  Frangois  Marie  Casi- 
mir.  Le  rhetorique  ethiopienne.  Le  Samna 
warq.  (Journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1907.  8°. 
serie  10,  tome  10,  p.  305-329.)  *  OAA 

  Une  tradition  ethiopienne.  (Revue 

semitique.  Paris,  1904.  8°.  tome  12,  p.  259- 
268.)  *  OAA 

Na'od,  king  of  Abyssinia.  Sellase  za- 
Neguse  Nadd.  Virshi  tzarya  Naoda.  [Ed- 
ited and  translated  by]  Boris  Aleksandro- 
vich  Turayev.  (Imperatorskoye  Russkoye 
Arkheologicheskoye  Obshchestvo.  Zapiski 
Vostochnavo  Otdeleniya.  S.-Peterburg, 
1906.  4°.  torn.  16,  v.  iv,  p.  0169-0189.) 

Ethiopic  text  and  Russian  translation.      *  QCB 
Sellase  are  six-line  poems  intended  to  be  sung  in 
Church  after  certain  verses  of  the  Psalter. 

Nicoletti-Altimari,  Arnoldo.  Tradizioni  e 
leggende  abissine.  (Rivista  d'ltalia.  Roma, 
1898.  8°.  anno  1,  v.  1,  p.  752-770.)  NNA 

Origine  della  dinastia  abissina.  La  leggenda  della 
citta  santa  di  Axum.  Amazien.  II  convento  di  Debra- 
Damo.  I  sette  paesi  giusti.  Ocule  Cusai.  II  "Fetha- 
Neghest."   II  Mascal  (la  festa  della  croce). 

Noeldeke,  Theodor.  Zur  Alexiuslegende. 
(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1899.  8°.  Bd.  53,  p. 
256-258.)  *OAA 

Pachomius,  Saint.  Regulae  Pachomii. 
(In:  C.  F.  A.  Dillmann,  Chrestomathia 
^Ethiopica.  Lipsiae:  T.  O.  YVeigel,  1866.  8°. 
p.  57-69.)  *  OEE 

Ethiopic  text. 

St.  Pachomius  was  one  of  the  founders  of  mon- 
asticism.  His  monastery  at  Tabenna,  an  island  in  the 
Nile,  near  Dendera,  was  the  first  in  which  monks 
were  collected  together  under  one  roof.  The  above 
rules,  ascribed  to  him,  were  for  the  government  of  the 
community.  From  its  location  his  order  was  called 
Tabennesiot. 

A  complete  bibliography  of  the  literature  relating 
to  Pachomius  is  given  by  Xau  in  his  Histoire  de  Saint 
Pacome  (Patrologia  Orientalis,  Paris  [1907],  tome 
4,  p.  409-424.) 

 The  rules  of  Pachomius.  Translated 

from  the  Ethiopic  by  George  H.  Schodde. 
(Presbvterian  review.  New  York,  1885.  8°. 
v.  6,  p."  681-689.)  *  DA 

With  introduction  by  translator,  p.  678-681. 

  Die   Regeln  des  Pachomius.  Aus 

dem  Aethiopischen  iibersetzt  und  mit  An- 
merkungen  versehen  von  Dr.  Ed.  Konig. 
(Theologische  Studien  und  Kritiken.  Gotha, 
1878.  8°.  Jahrg.  51,  p.  323-337.)  ZEA 

Basset,  Rene.  Les  regies  attribuees_  a 
saint  Pakhome.  (In  his:  Melanges,  africains 
et  orientaux.  Paris:  Jean  Maisonneuve  & 
fils,  1915.  8°.  p.  286-305.)  *OAC 

Perruchon,  Jules.  Deux  notes  ethiopien- 
nes,  le  premiere  indiquant  les  tribus  aux- 
quelles  appartenaient  les  apotres,  la  seconde 
donnant  la  genealogie  des  moines  d'Abys- 
sinie  depuis  S.  Antoine  (texte  et  traduction). 
(Zeitschrift  fiir  Assvriologie.  Weimar, 
1897.  8°.  Bd.  12,  p.  403-408.)  *  OCL 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


33 


Ethiopic  Literature,  continued. 

Proverbia  &  adagia  /Ethiopica.  (In:  Hiob 
Ludolf,  Ad  suam  historiam  /Ethiopicam 
commentarivs.  Francofvrti  ad  Moenvm, 
1691.  f°.  p.  559-561.)  *  KB 

Saba,  Jean.  See  under  Grebaut,  Sylvain. 
La  lettre. 

Saga  Za-'Ab.  [Letter  of  Lebna  Dengel, 
king  of  Ethiopia.]  See  under  Basset,  Rene. 
Deux  lettres  ethiopiennes. 

Sarsa  Dengel  (Malak  Sagad),  King.  Let- 
ter to  Philip  ii.  of  Spain.  (In:  Hiob  Ludolf, 
Ad  suam  historiam  Aethiopicam  commen- 
tarius.  Francofvrti,  1691.  f°.  p.  483-485.) 

Ethiopic  text  and  Latin  translation.  *  KB 

The  text  is  also  printed  in  Bachmann's  Aethiopische 
Lesestiicke,  Leipzig,  1893,  p.  24-26,  *OEC. 

Scaliger,  Joseph  Juste.  Compvtvs  eccle- 
siae  Aethiopicae.  (In  his:  Opvs  de  emen- 
datione  temporvm.  Colonise  Allobrogvm : 
Typis  Roverianis,  m.dc.xxix.  f°.  p.  670-706.) 

ft  BAH 

In  Ethiopic  (p.  671-678),  with  Latin  translation 
and  commentary. 

Schick,  Josef.  Die  athiopischen  Versionen. 
(In  his:  Das  Gliickskind  mit  dem  Todes- 
brief.  Orientalische  Fassungen.  Berlin: 
Emil  Felber,  1912.  8°.  p.  376-416.) 

NAB  (Corpus) 

Corpus  Hamleticum:  Hamlet  in  Sage  und  Dichtung, 
Kunst  und  Musik.  Abt.  1,  Bd.  1. 

1.  Talason.    2.  Talaflnos.  3.  Bahran. 

Schodde,  George  Henry.  See  under  Pach- 
omius. 

Te'ezaza  Sanbat  (Commandements  du 
Sabbat),  accompagne  de  six  autres  ecrits 
pseudo-epigraphiques  admis  par  les  Falach- 
as  ou  Juifs  d'Abyssinie.  Texte  ethiopien, 
publie  et  traduit  par  J.  Halevy.  Paris:  Li- 
brairie  Emile  Bouillon,  1902.  '  3  p.l.,  xxxv, 
239  p.,  1  1.  8°.  (Ecole  des  hautes  etudes. 
Bibliothecue :  Sciences  historiques  et  philo- 
logiques.  fasc.  137.)  *  EN 

Contents:  Introduction.  Te'ezaza  Sanbat.  Abba 
Elyas.  Mashafa  Mala'eket.  'Ezra.  Baruch.  Gorgorios 
nabiy.   Sebhatat.  Traduction. 

Theophilus  of  Alexandria.  See  under 
Conti  Rossini,  Carlo. 

Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich.  See  under 
Na'od,  king  of  Abyssinia. 

Varenbergh,  Joseph.  Studien  zur  abessin- 
ischen   Reichsordnung    (Ser'ata  Mangest). 


(Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie.  Strassburg, 
1916.  8°.  Bd.  30,  p.  1-45.)  *  OCL 

Text,  translation,  and  notes. 

Walda  Haywat.  See  under  Zar'a  Ya'qob. 

The  philosophy. 

Walda  Sellase.  Malek'e  za-Menilek,  negus 
negusat  za-Ityopya.  (Academia  das  sciencias 
de  Lisboa.  Boletim,  Classe  2.  Coimbra, 
1915.  8°.  v.  8,  p.  428-439.)  *  ES 

Portuguese  translation:  "Imagem  de  Menilek,  rei 
dos  reis  de  Etiopia,"  p.  440—446. 

The  poem  is  included  within  Esteves  Pereira's 
article  on  "A  poesia  etiopica." 

The  Ethiopic  text  is  also  printed  in  facsimile, 
without  title  and  without  the  author's  name,  by 
Blanchart  (in  Jean  Duchesne-Fournet,  Mission  en 
tthiopic;  Paris,  1909,  tome  1,  p.  294-306;  French 
translation,  "Strophes  poetiques  en  l'honneur  du 
Negus  Menilek,"  p.  307-318). 

Zar'a  Ya'qob.  The  philosophy  of  Zar'a 
Ya'kob.  Translated  by  Moses  Bailev.  (The 
Moslem  world.  Harrisburg,  Pa.,  1921.  8°. 
v.  11,  p.  281-295.)  *OAA 

Zar'a  Ya'qob's  rationalistic  system  of  philosophy  is 
contained  in  his  autobiography,  and  is  followed  by  the 
ethical  treatise  of  his  pupil,  Walda  Haywat,  in  which 
is  developed  the  teaching  of  the  master. 

Bonus,  Albert.  An  Abyssinian  Christian 
free-thinker.  (The  Expository  times.  Edin- 
burgh, 1905.  8°.  v.  16,  p.  453-455.)  ZEA 

Coxti  Rossixi,  Carlo.  Lo  Hatata  Zar'a 
Ya'qob  e  il  Padre  Giusto  da  Urbino.  (Reale 
accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti :  Classe  di 
scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma, 
1920.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  29,  p.  213-223.)      *  ER 

Noldeke,  Theodor.     Zwei  abessinische 


Deisten.     (Deutsche    Rundschau.  Berlin, 

1905.  8°.  Bd.  123,  p.  457-459.)  *  DF 

Zar'a  Ya'qob  and  Walda  Heywat. 

Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich.  Hatata 


Zar'a  Yae'qob.  "Izsledovaniye  Zarya  Ya- 
koba."  Ispoved  abissinskavo  Svobodnavo 
myslitelya  xvn  veka.  (Imperatorskoye 
Russkoye  Arkheologicheskoye  Obshchestvo. 
Zapiski  Vostochnavo  Otdeleniya.  S. -Peter- 
burg,  1905.  4°.  torn.  16,  v.  ii-iii,  p.  1-62.) 
From  ms.  d'Abbadie,  no.  215  and  234.  *  QCB 
Ethiopic  text  with  translation  into  Russian. 

  Abissinskiye   svobodnyye  mysliteli 

xvn  veka.  (Zhurnal  Ministerstva  Narod- 
navo  Prosveshcheniya.  S.-Peterburg.  1903. 
8°.  chast.  350,  p.  443-476.)  *  QCA 

On  Abyssinian  Freethinkers  of  the  seventeenth 
century.  Mainly  an  account  of  Zar'a  Ya'qob,  with 
quotations  from  his  work. 

Weyh,  W.  Ein  athiopischer  Philosoph. 
(Allgemeine  Zeitung.  Beilage.  Miinchen, 
August,  1906.  f  °.  p.  361-364.)  *  A 


History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records) 


Almeida,  Manuel  de.  See  under  Victorias; 
and  Zena  Minas. 

Annales  regum  Iyasu  n.  et  Iyo'as;  inter- 
pretatus  est  Ignatius  Guidi.  Romae:  Karo- 


lus  de  Luigi,  1912.  2  p.l.,  267(1)  p.  8°. 
(Corpus  scriptorum  Christianorum  Orien- 
talium.  Scriptores  Aethiopici.  Series  altera 
—  tomus  6.)  *  OEF 


34 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records), 
continued. 

Bahrey.  Geschichte  der  Galla.  Zenahu 
la-Galla.  Bericht  eines  Abessinischen 
Monches  iiber  die  Invasion  der  Galla  in 
sechzehnten  Jahrhundert.  Text  und  Uber- 
setzung.  Herausgegeben  von  A.  W. 
Schleicher.  Berlin:  Theod.  Frohlich,  1893. 
iv,  42  p.  8°.  *  OEK 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by 
Theodor  Noldeke),  Berlin,  1896,  Jahrg.  158,  p.  172- 
173,  *DF;  Literarisches  Centralblatt  (by  F.  P[rae- 
torius]),  Leipzig,  1894,  col.  895-897,  NAA;  L'Oriente 
(by  Conti  Rossini),  Roma,  1895,  v.  2,  p.  204-206, 
*  OAA. 

Littmann,  Enno.  Zu  A.  W.  Schleicher's 
"Geschichte  der  Galla."  (Zeitschrift  fur  As- 
syriologie.  Weimar,  1896.  8°.  Bd.  11,  p.  389- 
400.)  *OCL 

Bahrey.  Zena  Galla.  Curante  I.  Guidi. 
(In:  Historia  regis  Sarsa  Dengel  (Malak 
Sagad)  edidit  K.  Conti  Rossini.  Paris:  E 
Typographeo  Reipublicae,  1907.  8°.  p.  223- 
231.)  *OEF 

Adnotatio  critica,  p.  232. 

This  work  claims  to  have  been  written  by  an 
Abyssinian  monk  named  Bahrey,  probably  living  at  the 
court  of  King  Sar.?a  Dengel  (1563-1595).  This  text 
is  based  on  the  British  Museum  codex  with  variants 
from  a  Vienna  ms. 

  Historia  gentis  Galla,  interprete  I. 

Guidi.  (In:  Historia  regis  Sarsa  Dengel 
(Malak  Sagad)  interpretatus  est  K.  Conti 
Rossini.  Paris:  E  Typographeo  Reipub- 
licae, 1907.  8°.  p.  193-208.)  *  OEF 

Basset,  Rene  Maria  Joseph,  fitudes  sur 
l'histoire  d'fithiopie.  (Journal  asiatique. 
Paris,  1881.  8°.  serie  7,  tome  17,  p.  315-434; 
tome  18,  p.  285-389.)  *  OAA 

Text,  translation,  and  notes. 

Separate  issue  reviewed  in  Revue  critique  (by  H. 
Pognon),  Paris,  1884,  p.  201-203,  NAA. 

Bezold,  Carl.  See  under  Kebra  Nagast. 

Blundell,  H.  Weld.  See  Royal  chronicle 
of  Abyssinia. 

Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson 
Wallis.  See  under  Kebra  Nagast. 

Chaine,  M.  La  date  de  la  mort  du  metro- 
polite  Abba  Salama.  (i^Ethiops.  Paris,  1922. 
8°.  annee  1,  p.  33-36.)  *  OED 

Charles,  Robert  Henry.  See  under  John, 
bishop  of  Nikiu. 

Chronique  de  Galawdewos  (Claudius),  roi 
d'fithiopie.  Texte  ethiopien  traduit,  annote 
et  precede  d'une  introduction  historique  par 
William  El.  Conzelman.  Paris:  Librairie 
fimile  Bouillon,  1895.  4  p.l.,  xxxi,  190  p., 
1  1.  8°.  (Bibliotheque  de  1'fLcole  pratique 
des  hautes  etudes.  Sciences  philologiques 
et  historiques.  fasc.  104.)  *  EN 

Contents:  Introduction  ^  Apergu  historique  de  la 
vie  de   Galawdewos   d'apres  les   ecrivains  europeens 


et  les  renseignements  fournis  par  sa  chronique.  Texte 
de  la  chronique  ethiopienne.  Traduction.  Index  des 
noms  propres  et  geographiques  contenus  dans  la 
chronique.    Additions  et  corrections. 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (bv 
Th.  Noldeke),  Berlin,  1896,  Jahrg.  158.  p.  164-168', 
*DF:  L'Oriente  (by  Conti  Rossini),  Roma.  1895.  v. 
2,  p.  203-204,  *  OAA. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  La  Cronaca  di  Galawde- 
wos o  Claudio  re  di  Abissinia  (1540-1559). 
(International  Congress  of  Orientalists, 
12th,  Rome,  1899.  Actes.  Florence,  1902. 
4°.  tome  3,  partie  1,  p.  111-115.)      *  OAA 

Les  Chroniques  de  Zar'a  Ya'eqob  et  de 
Ba'eda  Maryam,  rois  d'fithiopie  de  1434  a 
1478.  (Texte  ethiopien  et  traduction)  pre- 
cedees  d'une  introduction  par  Jules  Per- 
ruchon.  Paris:  fimile  Bouillon,  1893.  5  p.l., 
iii-xl  p.,  1  ^  1.,  3-206  p.,  1  1.,  1  map.  8°. 
(ficole  pratique  des  hautes  etudes.  Biblio- 
theque: Sciences  philologiques  et  histo- 
riques. fasc.  93.)  *  EN 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by 
Theodor  Noldeke),  Gottingen,  1893,  p.  410-414,  *DF. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  A  propos  des  textes 
ethiopiens  concernant  Salama  (Frumen- 
tius).  (yEthiops.  Paris,  1922.  8°.  annee  1, 
p.  2-4,  17-18.)  *  OED 

  La  caduta  della  dinastia  Zague  e  la 

versione  amarica  del  Be'ela  Nagast.  (Reale 
accademia  nazionale  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche.  Roma,  1922.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  31,  p. 
279-314.)  *  ER 

Text,  translation  and  notes. 

  Di  un  nuovo  codice  della  cronica 

etiopica  pubblicata  da  R.  Basset.  (Reale 
accademia  nazionale  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche.  Roma,  1893.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  2,  p. 
668-683.)  *  ER 

  Un    documento    sul  cristianesimo 

nello  Iemen  di  tempi  del  re  Sarahbil  Yakkuf. 
(Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche.  Roma,  1910.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  19,  p. 
705-750.)  *  ER 

From  the  Ethiopic  Acts  of  S.  'Azqir  of  Najran. 

Text,  Italian  translation,  and  introductory  notes. 

  Donazioni  reali  alia  cattedrale  di 

Aksum.  (L'Oriente.  Roma,  1895.  8°.  v.  2, 
p.  35-45.)  *OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation  into  Italian. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  critique  d'histoire  et  de  littera- 
ture  (by  Rene  Basset),  Paris,  1896,  nouv.  serie,  tome 
41,  p.  149-150,  NAA. 

  Epistolario  del  debtera  aseggachegn 

di  Uadla.  (Reale  accademia  nazionale  dei 
Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  mo- 
rali, storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1925.  8°. 
serie  6,  v.  1,  p.  449-490.)  *  ER 

From  ms.  Abbadie  254  and  256. 

  L'evangelio  d'oro  di  Dabra  Libanos. 

(Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche. Roma,  1901.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  10.  p. 
177-219.)  *  ER 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records), 
continued. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo,  continued. 

  Lettre.  (Revue  semitique.  Paris, 

1902.  8°.  tome  10,  p.  373-377.)         *  OAA 

"Testo.  .  .ponendo  soyra  tutt'  altro  piede  i  docu- 
menti  abissini  finora  noti  sulla  caduta  degli  Zague."  — 
p.  374. 

  Lettre  (on  'Tobscure  enigme  his- 

torique  relative  a  la  dynastie  des  Zague,  a 
laquelle  les  legendes  modernes  attribuent 
une  origine  juive  (falacha)"].  (Revue  se- 
mitique. Paris,  1903.  8°.  tome  11,  p.  325- 
330.)  *OAA 

With  "Remarque"  by  J[oseph]  H[alevy],  p.  330- 
331. 

  Les  listes  des  rois  d'Aksoum.  (Jour- 
nal asiatique.  Paris,  1909.  8°.  serie  10,  tome 
14,  p.  263-320.)  *  OAA 

 Storia  di  Lebna  Dengel  re  d'Etiopia, 

sino  alle  prime  lotto  contro  Ahmad  ben 
Ibrahim.  (Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Ren- 
diconti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e 
filologiche.  Roma,  1894.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  3,  p. 
617-640.)  *  ER 

Text  and  translation. 

  Sulla   dinastia   Zague.  (L'Oriente. 

Roma,  1895.  8°.  v.  2,  p.  144-159.)     *  OAA 

  Vicende  dell'  Etiopia  e  delle  missioni 

cattoliche  ai  tempi  di  ras  AH  deggiac  Ubie  e 
re  Teodoro,  secondo  un  documento  abissino. 
(Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche. Roma,  1916.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  25,  p. 
425-550.)  *  ER 

p.  541-550:  Indice  dei  nomi  propri. 

 Roma:  Tipografia  della  R.  Ac- 
cademia dei  Lincei,  1916.  130  p.  8°.  BLK 

At  head  of  title:  Fonti  storiche  etiopiche  per  il 
secolo  xix.  i. 

 See  also  under  Bahrey;  Cronaca  reale 

abissina;  Historia. 

Conzelman,  William  Eliot.  See  under 
Chronique  de  Galawdewos. 

La  Cronaca  reale  abissina  dall'  anno  1800 
all'  1840.  Nota  del  corrisp.  Carlo  Conti 
Rossini.  2  maps.  (Reale  accademia  dei  Lin- 
cei. Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali, 
storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1916.  8°.  serie 
5,  v.  25,  p.  779-922.)  *  ER 

Text,  with  variant  readings,  Italian  translation, 
and  index  of  proper  names. 

Map  1 :  Schizzo  dimonstrativo  delle  principali  sig- 
norie  abissine  verso  la  fine  del  1807. 

Map  2:  Schizzo  dimonstrativo  delle  principali  sig- 
norie  abissine  verso  il  1838. 

 See  also  Royal  chronicle  of  Abyssinia. 

Cronica  de  Susenyos,  rei  de#  Ethiopia. 
Tomo  i.  Texto  ethiopico.  Destinado  a  x 
sessao  do  Congresso  internacional  dos  ori- 
entalistas  por  F.  M.  Esteves  Pereira.  Lis- 


35 

boa:  Imprensa  nacional,  1892.  3  p.l.,  xlvi  p., 

1  1.,  335  p.  8°.  (Sociedade  de  geographia  de 
Lisboa.)  *  OEF 

  Tomo  ii.  Traducgao  e  notas.  Lis- 
boa: Imprensa  nacional,  1900.  vii  p.,  1  1., 
663  p.  8°.  *OEF 

Traduccao,  p.  1-259.  Notas,  p.  263-614.  Indice 
dos  nomes  proprios,  p.  615-657.  Correc^oes  do  texto 
geez,  p.  659-663. 

Dawana  nafas  (Munimentum  animae). 
(In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad  suam  historiam  ^Ethi- 
opicam  commentarius.  Francofurti  ad  Moe- 
num:  Sumptibus  Johannis  David  Zvnneri, 
1691.  f  °.  p.  493-507.)  *  KB 

An  anonymous  letter  by  a  Jacobite  monk  against 
the  Melchites,  addressed  to  Susneus  (Malak  Sagad 
in.),  king  of  Abyssinia,  1605-1632. 

Ethiopic  text  and  Latin  translation  (by  Ludolf) 
in  parallel  columns. 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August, 
tlber  die  Regierung,  insbesondere  die  Kir- 
chenordnung  des  Konigs  Zar'a-Jacob.  Ber- 
lin, 1885.  79  p.  4°.  (Konigliche  Akademie 
der  Wissenschaften.  Abhandlungen  aus 
dem  Jahre  1884.)  *  EE 

i.  Der  Bericht  der  Chronik.  n.  Die  Kirchenord- 
nung  des  M[ashafa]  Berhan. 

  Zur  Geschichte  des  abyssinischen 

Reichs.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesell- 
schaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1853.  8°.  Bd. 
7,  p.  338-364.)  *  OAA 

i.  Die  Verzeichnisse  der  abyssinischen  Konige  bis 
auf  die  Zeit  des  Jekuno-Amlak.  n.  Ueber  die  beiden 
athicpischen  Inschriften  von  Axum. 

Documenta  ad  illustrandam  historiam.  i. 
Liber  Axumae.  Edidit  K.  Conti  Rossini. 
Parisiis:  E  Typographeo  Reipublicae,  1909. 

2  p.l.,  86  p.  8°.  (Corpus  scriptorum  Christ- 
ianorum  Orientalium.  Scriptores  Aethiopici. 
Series  altera,  tomus  8.)  *  OEF 

Ethiopic  text  only. 

Reviewed  in  Journal  asiatique  (by  A.  Guerinot), 
Paris,  1911,  serie  10,  tome  17,  p.  154-157,  *  OAA. 

Drouin,  Ed.  Deux  chroniques  ethiopien- 
nes.  (Le  Museon.  Louvain,  1884.  8°.  tome 
3,  p.  253-268.)  ZAA 

Duensing,  Hugo.  Ein  Brief  des  abessin- 
ischen  Konigs  Asnaf  Sagad  (Claudius)  an 
Papst  Paul  in.  aus  dem  Jahre  1541.  (Konig- 
liche Gesellschaft  der  Wissenschaften  zu 
Gottingen.  Nachrichten:  Philologisch-his- 
torische  Klasse.  Gottingen,  1904.  4°.  p.  70- 
93.)  *  EE 

Text,  German  translation,  and  notes,  the  answer 
of  the  Pope  (in  Latin,  1544),  and  historical  notes. 

The  Ethiopic  letter  of  Asnaf  Sagad  was  purchased 
from  an  antiquary  in  Florence  in  October,  1903. 

Esteves  Pereira,  Francisco  Maria.  See 
under  Cronica;  and  Zena  Minas. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Liste  des  patriarches 
d'Alexandrie  d'apres  le  ms.  ethiopien  no.  3 
de  M.  fL.  Delorme.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  Chre- 
tien. Paris,  1912.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  7,  p.  212- 
216.)  *OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 


36 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records), 
continued. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain,  continued. 

  Liste  des  rois  d'Axoum  d'apres  le 

ms.  no.  3  de  M.  fi.  Delorme.  (Revue  de 
l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1912.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  7,  p.  217-219.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

  See  also  under  Guerrier,  L.,  and 

Sylvain  Grebaut;  and  Severus. 

La  Guerre  de  Sarsa-Dengel  contre  les 
Falachas.  Texte  ethiopien,  extrait  des  an- 
nates de  Sarsa-Dengel,  roi  d'£thiopie  (1563- 
1597),  manuscrit  de  la  Bibliotheque  natio- 
nale  no.  143,  fol.  159  r°,  col.  2  —  fol.  171  v°, 
col.  1.  Traduit  en  frangais  et  en  hebreu 
par  J.  Halevy.  Premiere  partie:  Texte 
ethiopien.  (Revue  semitique.  Paris,  1905. 
8°.  tome  14,  p.  392-427.)  *  OAA 

La  Guerre  de  Sarsa-Dengel  contre  les 
Falachas.  Traduction  frangaise  par  J.  Ha- 
levy. (Revue  semitique.  Paris,  1906.  8°. 
tome  15,  p.  119-163,  263-287.)  *  OAA 

p.  263-287  contain  a  translation  into  Hebrew. 
"Les  notes  qui  accompagnent  cette  traduction  se 
bornent  a  la  correction  des  fautes  typographiques  du 
texte  precedent,  d'apres  la  copie  que  J 'en  possede, 
car  l'original  m'est  inaccessible.  J'y  ai  ajoute  quel- 
ques  variantes  du  texte  d'Oxford  qui  me  furent  com- 
muniquees  par  des  amis  dont  le  precieux  concours  m'a 
beaucoup  oblige." 

Guerrier,  L.,  and  Sylvain  Grebaut.  Les 
canons  du  concile  de  Gangres.  (Revue  de 
l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1923.  8°.  serie  3, 
tome  3,  p.  303-313.)  *  OAA 

Introduction,  text,  and  translation  into  French. 
"La  date  du  concile  de  Gangres  est  incertaine: 
elle  peut  flotter  entre  340  et  380.  Le  concile  etait 
dirige  surtout  contre  les  theories  d'Eustathe  de  Se- 
baste  (qui  devait,  apres  sa  conversion,  devenir  le 
maitre  de  saint  Basile)  et  de  ses  partisans;  aussi 
contre  certain  'monachisme  d'ordre  inferieur.'  " 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Gli  archivi  in  Abissinia. 
(International  Congress  of  Historical  Stud- 
ies, Rome,  1903.  Atti.  Roma,  1906.  8°.  v. 
3,  p.  651-698.)  BAA 

Extracts  in  Ethiopic. 

  Di  due  frammenti  relativi  alia  storia 

di  Abissinia.  (Reale  accademia  nazionale  dei 
Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  mo- 
rali,  storiche,  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1893.  8°. 
serie  5,  v.  2,  p.  579-605.)  *  ER 

  Leggende  storiche  di  Abissini.  (Ri- 

vista  degli  studi  orientali.  Roma,  1907.  8°. 
v.  1,  p.  S-30.)  *OAA 

  Uno  squarcio  di  storia  ecclesiastica 

di  Abissinia.  (Bessarione.  Roma,  1900/01. 
8°.  v.  8,  p.  10-25.)  *OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

  U  Zcna  Narga  ("II  racconto  di  Nar- 

ga").  (Reale  accademia  nazionale  dei  Lin- 
cei. Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali, 
storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1905.  8°.  serie 
5,  v.  14,  p.  233-267.)  *  ER 

Ethiopic  text  only. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  semitique  (by  J.  Halevy),  Paris, 
1906,  tome  14,  p.  384-385,  *OAA. 


 See  also  under  Annales;  Bahrey;  and 

Historia. 

Halevy,  Joseph.  See  under  Guerre. 

Histoire  d'Eskender,  d"Amda  Seyon  n. 
et  de  Na'od,  rois  d'fhhiopie,  texte  ethiopien 
inedit  comprenant  en  outre  un  fragment  de 
la  chronique  de  Ba'eda-Maryam,  leur  pre- 
decesseur,  et  traduction,  par  Jules  Per- 
ruchon.  (Journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1894.  8°. 
serie  9,  tome  3,  p.  319-366.)  *  OAA 

Histoire  des  guerres  d"Amda  Syon  roi 
d'fithiopie,  traduite  de  l'ethiopien  par  M. 
Jules  Perruchon.  (Journal  asiatique.  Paris, 
1889.  8°.  serie  8,  tome  14,  p.  271-363,  381- 
493.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

'Amda  Syon  reigned  from  1314  to  1344. 

Historia  regis  Sarsa  Dengel  (Malak  Sa- 
gad)  edidit  K.  Conti  Rossini,  accedit  His- 
toria gentis  Galla,  curante  I.  Guidi.  Parisiis: 
E  Typographeo  Reipublicae,  1907.  2  p.l., 
231(1)  p.  8°.  (Corpus  scriptorum  Christia- 
norum  Orientalium.  Scriptores  Aethiopici 
textus.  Series  altera,  tomus  m.)         *  OEF 

Historia  regis  Sarsa  Dengel  (Malak  Sa- 
gad)  interpretatus  est  K.  Conti  Rossini. 
Accedit  Historia  gentis  Galla,  interprete  I. 
Guidi.  Parisiis:  E  Typographeo  Reipubli- 
cae, 1907.  1  p.l.,  208  p.  8°.  (Corpus  scrip- 
torum Christianorum  Orientalium.  Scrip- 
tores  Aethiopici  textus.  Series  altera,  tomus 
m.)  *  OEF 

Reviewed  in  Zeitschrift  der  Deutschen  morgen- 
I'dndischen  Gesellschaft  (by  F.  Praetorius),  Leipzig, 
1910,  Bd.  64,  p.  603-630,  *OAA;  Rivista  degli  studi 
orientali  (by  I[gnazio]  G[uidi]),  Roma,  1907,  v.  1, 
p.  221-226,  *OAA;  Literarisches  Zentralblatt  (by 
S[chwall]y),  Leipzig,  1.909,  Jahrg.  60,  col.  1175, 
NAA ;  Theologische  Litieraturzeitung  (by  Eberhard 
Nestle),  Leipzig,  1910,  col.  749-750,  ZEA. 

John,  bishop  of  Nikiu.  Memoire  sur  le 
chronique  de  Jean,  eveque  de  Nikiou. 
Notice  et  extraits  par  H.  Zotenberg.  (Jour- 
nal asiatique.  Paris,  1877-79.  8°.  serie  7, 
tome  10,  p.  451-517;  tome  12,  p.  245-347; 
tome  13,  p.  291-386.)  *  OAA 

  Chronique    de    Jean,    eveque  de 

Nikiou.  Texte  ethiopien  publie  et  traduit 
par  H.  Zotenberg.  Paris:  Imprimerie  na- 
tionale,  1883.  488  p.  4°.  *  OEF 

Ethiopic  text  and  French  translation. 

  The  chronicle  of  John,  bishop  of 

Nikiu;  translated  from  Zotenberg's  Ethiopic 
text  by  R.  H.  Charles...  London:  Pub- 
lished for  the  Text  and  Translation  Society, 
by  Williams  &  Norgate,  1916.  2  p.l.,  xii, 
216  p.  8°.  *OEF 

Bibliographical  footnotes. 

This  chronicle  "owes  its  importance  to  the  fact 
that  it  is  a  contemporary  account  written  from  the 
Christian  point  of  view,  of  the  conquest  of  Egypt 
by  the  Arabs."  It  was  originally  written  in  Greek, 
from  which  it  was  translated  into  Arabic,  and  in  1602 
rendered  into  Ethiopic  from  the  Arabic  version  (now 
lost)  by  Gabriel  the  Egyptian,  son  of  John  of  Qalyiib, 


ETHIOPICA  A: 

History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records), 
continued. 

at  the  order  of  the  Abyssinian  general  Athanasius 
and  of  the  queen  Maryam  Sena  (Malak  Mogasa),  the 
wife  of  king  Ya'qob  (Malak  Sagad),  the  younger, 
a.  d.  1597-1603. 

Kebra  Nagast: 

Kebra  Nagast.  Die  Herrlichkeit  der 
Konige.  Nach  den  Handschriften  in  Berlin, 
London,  Oxford  und  Paris,  zum  ersten  Mai 
in  athiopischen  Urtext  herausgegeben  und 
mit  deutscher  Ubersetzung  versehen  von 
Carl  Bezold.  Miinchen:  Verlag  der  K. 
Akademie  der  Wissenschaften,  1905.  lxii, 
176,  160  p.  4°.  f*  OEG 

The  first  complete  edition  of  the  text. 

The  introduction  gives  the  text,  with  translation, 
of  an  Arabic  recension  or  rather  epitome  of  the 
central  legend. 

See  Conti  Rossini's  Aethiopica  (Rivista  degli  studi 
oricntali,  Roma,  1925,  v.  10,  p.  506-508,  for  a  note 
on  the  author  and  date  of  this  work. 

  Another  copy.   (Koniglich  Bayer- 

ische  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  Ab- 
handlungen :  Philosophisch-philologische 
Klasse.  Bd.  23,  Abt.  1.)  *  EE 

Reviewed  in  Wiener  Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des 
Morgenlandes  (by  Theodor  Noldeke),  Wien,  1905,  Bd. 
19,  p.  3977411,  *OAA\  Zeitschrift  der  Deutschcn 
morgenl'dndischen  Gesellschaft  (by  Hugo  Gressmann), 
Leipzig,  1906,  Bd.  60,  p.  666-674,  *OAA;  Gotting- 
ische  gelchrte  Anzeigen  (by  Johannes  Flemming), 
Berlin,  1909,  Jahrg.  171,  p.  903-912,  *DF;  Literar- 
isches  Z entralblatt  (by  F.  Praetorius),  Leipzig,  1905, 
Jahrg.  56,  col.  1528-1532,  NAA;  Review  of  theology 
&  philosophy  (by  J.  A.  Crichton),  Edinburgh,  1906, 
v.  1,  p.  225-229,  ZAA. 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz. 
Bemerkungen  zu  Bezold's  Ausgabe  des 
Kebra  nagast.  (Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie. 
Strassburg,  1906.  8°.  Bd.  19,  p.  185-193.) 

*OCL 

Kebra  Nagast: 

The  Queen  of  Sheba  &  her  only  son, 
Menyelek;  being  the  history  of  the  depar- 
ture of  God  &  his  ark  of  the  covenant  from 
Jerusalem  to  Ethiopia,  and  the  establish- 
ment of  the  religion  of  the  Hebrews  &  the 
Solomonic  line  of  kings  in  that  country.  A 
complete  translation  of  the  Kebra  Nagast 
with  introduction  by  Sir  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge 
.  . .  Now  first  published  with  31  illustra- 
tions from  Ethiopic  mss.  in  the  British 
Museum.  London  [etc.]:  The  Medici  So- 
ciety, Limited,  1922.   xc,  241  p.   illus.  8°. 

*OEG 

Reviewed  in  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society 
(by  Theophilus  G.  Pinches),  London,  1923,  p.  300- 
302,  *  OAA. 

Le  Roux,  Robert  Charles  Henri,  called 
Hugues.  Chez  la  reine  de  Saba.  Chronique 
ethiopienne.  Paris:  Ernest  Leroux,  1914. 
2  p.lM  299(1)  p.  12°.  NKV 

p.  125-227  contain  extracts  from  the  Kebra  Nagast 
ou  la  Gloire  des  Rois. 

Kebra  Nagast : 

Magda,  queen  of  Sheba.  From  the  an- 
cient royal   Abyssinian   manuscript  "The 


D  AMHARICA  37 

glory  of  the  kings."  Now  first  translated 
into  a  European  tongue  by  Hugues  Le  Roux, 
and  into  English... by  Mrs.  John  Van 
Vorst.  With  an  introduction  by  Hugues 
Le  Roux.  Illustrated  by  Michel  Engueda 
Work,  an  Abyssinian  artist.  New  York  and 
London:  Funk  &  Wagnalls  Company,  1907. 
195  p.,  1  facsim.,  5  pi.  12°.  *  OEG 

Translated  from  Le  Roux,  Chez  la  reine  de  Saba, 
Paris,  1914,  p.  125-227. 

Reviewed  by  Rene  Basset  in  Revue  des  etudes 
ethnographiques  et  sociologiques,  Paris,  1909,  p.  126- 
128,  QCA  (reprinted  in  his  Melanges,  africains  et 
orientaux,  Paris,  1915,  p.  244-249,  *OAC). 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz.  Fab- 
ula  de  regina  Sabaea  apud  Aethiopes... 
Halis:  Typis  Orphanotrophei,  1870.  x,  44 
p.,  1  1.  8°.  *OEG 

Dissertatio  inauguralis. 

Prints  that  part  of  the  Kebra  Nagast  (ch.  xix- 
xxxii)  which  narrates  the  legend  of  Solomon  and  the 
Queen  of  Ethiopia.  With  Latin  translation. 

From  ms.  at  Berlin  (Orient.  395),  with  variant 
readings  from  mss.  Orient.  818  and  819  in  the  British 
Museum. 

Perruchon,  Jules.  Legendes  relatives  a 
Dawit  ii.  (Lebna-Dengel),  roi  d'fithiopie. 
Texte  amharique  et  traduction.  (Revue 
semitique.  Paris,  1897.  8°.  tome  6,  p.  157- 
171.)  *OAA 

 Notes  pour  l'histoire  d'fithiopie.  (Re- 
vue semitique.   Paris,  1893-1901.   8°.  tome 

1,  p.  71-76,  177-182,  274-286,  359-372;  tome 

2,  p.  78-93,  155-166,  263-270;  tome  4,  p.  87- 
90,  177-185,  355-363;  tome  5,  p.  75-80,  173- 
189,  360-372;  tome  6,  p.  84-92;  tome  7,  p. 
166-176;  tome  9,  p.  71-78,  161-167.)  *  OAA 

Lettre  adressee  par  le  roi  d'Ethiopie  au  roi  Georges 
de  Nubie  sous  le  patriarcat  de  Philothee  (981-1002 
ou  1003).  Tome  1,  p.  71-76,  359-372.  (p.  359-372 
is  an  Arabic  text  and  translation  of  the  letter.) 

Recit  d'une  ambassade  envoyee  au  roi  d'Ethiopie 
Sayfa-Ar'ad  par  le  patriarche  d'Alexandrie  sur  l'ordre 
du  sultan  d'Egypte.  Tome  1,  p.  177-182. 

Le  regne  de  Lebna-Dengel.   Tome  1,  p.  274-286. 

Vie  de  Cosmas,  patriarche  d'Alexandrie  de  923  a 
934.  Tome  2,  p.  78-93.  (Arabic  text  after  ms.  140 
(302  of  the  catalogue)  of  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale; 
and  Ethiopic  text  after  ms.  no.  128  of  the  same 
library.) 

Le  regne  de  Galawdewos  (Claudius)  ou  Asnaf- 
Sagad.   Tome  2,  p.  155-166,  263-270. 

Regne  de  Minas  ou  Admas-Sagad  (1559-1563). 
Tome  4,  p.  87-90. 

Regne  de  Sarsa-Dengel  ou  Malak-Sagak  ler  (1563- 
1597).  Tome  4,  p.  177-185. 

Regnes  de  Ya'qob  et  Za-Dengel  (1597-1607).  Tome 
4,  p.  355-363. 

Regnes  de  Susenyos  ou  Seltan-Sagad  (1607-1632). 
Tome  5,  p.  75-80,  173-189. 

Le  regne  de  Fasiladas  (Alam-Sagad),  de  1632- 
a  1667.  Tome  5,  p.  360-372;  tome  6,  p.  84-92. 

Le  regne  de  Yohannes  (ler),  roi  d'Ethiopie  de  1667 
a  1682.   Tome  7,  p.  166-176. 

Le  regne  de  Iysua  (ler),  roi  d'Ethiopie  de  1682  a 
1706.  Tome  9,  p.  71-78,  161-167. 

 Le  pays  de  Zague.  (Revue  semitique. 

Paris,  1897.  8°.  tome  5,  p.  275-284.)   *  OAA 

With  "Remarques"  by  J.  Halevy  on  p.  284-285. 

  See  also  under  Les  Chroniques  de 

Zar'a  Ya'eqob;  Histoire  d'Eskender;  His- 
toire  des  guerres;  and  Victorias. 


38 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


History  and  Chronology  (Native  Records), 
continued. 

The  Royal  chronicle  of  Abyssinia,  1769— 
1840,  with  translation  and  notes  by  H.  Weld 
Blundell...  Cambridge:  University  Press, 
1922.  xiii  p.,  1  1.,  543  p.  4°.  f*  OEF 

"The  Ge'ez  ms.  of  the  British  Museum. .  .here 
reproduced  in  text  and  translation  from  f.  432a  to  f. 
587,  is  numbered  in  the  British  Museum  catalogue 
as  Orient.  821.  It  is  dated  7344  =  A.  D.  1851  and 
written  on  paper."  —  Preface. 

 See  also  Cronaca  reale  abissina. 

Saineano,  Marius.  L'Abyssinie  dans  la 
seconde  moitie  du  xvie  siecle  ou  le  regne  de 
Sartsa-Dengel  (Malak-Sagad)  (1563-1594), 
d'apres  des  annales  ethiopiennes  inedites. 
Bucuresci:  Tipografia  curtei  regale  F.  Gobi 
Fii,  1892.  54  p.,  1  1.   8°.  *  OEF 

Inaugural  dissertation. 
Title  and  date  from  cover. 

"Le  present  travail  est  destine  a  servir  d'introduc- 
tion  a  une  volumineuse  chronique  ethiopienne  restee 
inedite  et  jusqu'a  present  inconnue  aux  specialistes 
meme.  Le  texte  de  ces  importantes  annales  serviront, 
ainsi  que  leur  traduction,  de  these  a  Pftcole  des  Hautes 
£tudes  de  Paris.  Leur  extreme  importance  pour 
l'histoire  de  l'Abyssinie  au  xvie  siecle  ressortira  de 
l'introduction  suivante  qui  a  ete  presentee  comme 
these  de  doctorat  en  philosophic  a  l'Universite  de 
Leipzig.  Elles  montreront  sous  son  veritable  jour 
Sartsa-Dengel,  le  plus  grand  des  monarques  abyssins." 
Introductory  note. 

Contents:  Apergu  general  sur  l'histoire  de  l'Abys- 
sinie. i.  Analyse  du  manuscrit  de  Paris,  ex.  Defaite 
de  Hamalmal  et  de  Fassilo,  parents  du  roi.  EIE. 
Defaite  des  Gallas  et  des  Maures.  iv.  Lutte  contre 
Yeshaq  et  les  Turcs,  leur  defaite.  v.  Le  couronnement 
d'Axum.  vi.  Expeditions  contre  les  Falachas.  vn. 
Derniere  defaite  des  Turcs.  Conclusion. 

Schleicher,  A.  W.  See  under  Bahrey. 

Severus  ibn  al-Mukaffa,  bishop  of  Ush- 
munain.  Severe  ibn  al-Moqaffa'  eveque 
d'Aschmounain,  histoire  des  Conciles  (sec- 
ond livre).  i.  Edition  et  traduction  du  texte 
arabe  par  L.  Leroy.  n.  fitude  de  la  version 
ethiopienne  par  S.  Grebaut.  Paris:  Firmin- 
Didot  et  Cie.,  1910.  175(1)  p.  4°.  (Patrologia 
Orientalis.  Tome  6,  fasc.  4.)  f*  OAC 

£tude  sur  la  version  ethiopienne  et  appendices  par 
S.  Grebaut,  p.  137-175(1). 

The  Ethiopic  was  translated  from  the  Arabic. 

£tude  sur  la  version  ethiopienne.  I.  Incipit,  desinit 
et  colophon.    II.   Caracteres  generaux  de  la  version 


ethiopienne.  XII.  Divergences  semantiques,  additions 
et  ^  omissions,  iv.  Onomastique.  v.  Divergences  nu- 
meriques.  vi.  Langue  de  la  version.  Appendices: 
Textes  extraits  de  la  version  ethiopienne  de  l'histoire 
des  Conciles.  i.  Commencement  de  l'histoire  des 
Conciles.  II.  Noms  des  principaux  eveques  du  Con- 
cile  de  Nicee.  in.  Sources  du  symbole  de  Nicee. 
iv.  Les  differentes  legons  du  symbole.  v.  Interversion 
et  addition,  vi.  Le  second  avenement  du  Christ. 

Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich.  Izsledo- 
vaniya  v  oblasti  agiologicheskich  istochni- 
kov  istorii  Efiopii.  (Imperatorski  S.-Peter- 
burgski  Universitet.  Zapiski  Istoriko-filo- 
logicheskavo  Fakulteta.  S.-Peterburg,  1902. 
8°.  xiv,  453  p.)  *  QCB 

On  hagiological  material  for  Ethiopic  history. 

Reviewed  in  Imperatorskoye  Russkoye  Arkheo- 
logicheskoye  Obshchestvo,  Zapiski  Vostochnavo  Ot- 
deleniya  (by  P.  K[okovtzov]),  S.-Peterburg,  1906, 
7.17,  p.  051-073,  *QCB. 

  Zena  Dabra  Libanos.  Povyestvo- 

vanie  o  Dabra- Libanosskom  monasteyre. 
(Imperatorskoye  Russkoye  Arkheologiches- 
koye  Obshchestvo.  Zapiski  Vostochnavo 
Otdeleniya.  S.-Peterburg,  1906.  4°.  Tom. 
17,  v.  ii-iii,  p.  345-363.)  *  QCB 

Victorias  de  Amda  Sion  rei  de  Ethiopia. 
Traducgao  abreviada  pelo  P.  Manuel  de 
Almeida. .  .com  uma  versao  franceza  por 
M.  Jules  Perruchon.  Memoria  apresentada 
por  F.  M.  Esteves  Pereira.  (Sociedade  de 
geographia  de  Lisboa.  Boletim.  Lisboa, 
1890.  8°.  serie  9,  p.  471-508.)  KAA 

Zena  Minas.  Historia  de  Minas  (Ademas 
Sagad)  rei  de  Ethiopia.  Texto  ethiopico 
publicado,  traduzido  e  annotado  por  Fran- 
cisco Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  (Sociedade  de 
geographia  de  Lisboa.  Boletim.  Lisboa, 
1887.  8°.  serie  7,  no.  12,  p.  741-829.)  KAA 

Ethiopic  text,  translation,  and  notes. 

p.  821-827:  "Vida  e  morte  do  Emperador  Amadas 
Segued  assim  como  a  conta  o  seu  livro  ou  chronica 
ethiopica,"  from  "P.  Manuel  de  Almeida,  Historia  de 
Ethiopica  a  alta,  liv.  iv,  cap.  iv.  —  Ms.  do  Museu 
Britannico." 

Zotenberg,  Hermann.  See  under  John, 
bishop  of  Nikiu. 


Inscriptions 


Bent,  Theodore.  See  under  Mueller, 
David  Heinrich. 

Bock,  W.  de.  Materiaux  pour  servir  a 
l'archeologie  de  l'figypte  chretienne.  St. 
Petersbourg,  1901.  obi.  4°.  f*  OBL 

p.  54:  An  Ethiopic  inscription  found  at  Deir  el- 
Abaid,  near  Sohag  on  the  Nile.  Dated  'Tan  de  grace 
222,"    probably   of   the   era   of   Judith  =  1730  after 

Christ. 

See  also  Conti  Rossini's  Aethiopica  (1923),  p.  461- 
462,  where  the  inscription  is  also  given  and  a  trans- 
lation into  Italian.  "L'autore,"  says  Conti  Rossini, 
"dello  scritto  faceva  manifestamente  parte  d'una  caro- 
vana  di  pellegrini  etiopici  ai  Luoghi  Santi." 


Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  L'iscrizione  dell' 
obelisco  presso  Matara.  1  illus.  (Reale 
accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe 
di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filologiche. 
Roma,  1896.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  5,  p.  250-253.) 

*  ER 

See  also  under  Mueller,  D.  H.,  below. 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
Ueber  die  beiden  athiopischen  Inschriften 
von  Axum.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Ge- 
sellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1853.  8°. 
Bd.  7,  p.  355-364.)  *  OAA 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


39 


Inscriptions,  continued. 

Gallina,  Francesco.  Iscrizioni  etiopiche 
ed  arabe  in  S.  Stefano  dei  Mori.  5  illus. 
(Reale  societa  romana  di  storia  patria. 
Archivio.  Roma,  1888.  8°.  v.  11,  p.  281- 
285.)  BWA 

Glaser,  Eduard.  Die  altabessinische  In- 
schrift  von  Matara.  (Deutsche  morgen- 
landische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leip- 
zig, 1896.  8°.  Bd.  50,  p.  463-464.)    *  OAA 

Grohmann,  Adolf.  Eine  Alabasterlampe 
mit  einer  Ge'ezinschrift.  2  illus.  (Wiener 
Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes. 
Wien,  1911.  8°.  Bd.  25,  p.  410-422.)  *  OAA 

With  a  note  on  the  "Kaside  des  himjarischen 
Dichters  'Alkama  Ibn  Di    Gadan  Vers  2." 

Halevy,  Joseph.  L'inscription  ethiopienne 
de  l'obelisque  pres  de  Matara.  (Revue  se- 
mitique.  Paris,  1896.  8°.  tome  4,  p.  363-365.) 

*OAA 

Littmann,  Enno.  Sabaische,  griechische, 
und  altabessinische  Inschriften.  Berlin: 
Verlag  von  Georg  Reimer,  1913.  viii  p.,  1  I., 
94  p.,  1  1..  1  map,  5  pi.,  1  table.  f°.  (Deutsche 
Aksum-Expedition.  Herausgegeben  von 
der  Generalverwaltung  der  Koniglichen 
Museen  zu  Berlin.  Bd.  4.)  ft*  OED 


Mueller,  David  Heinrich.  Epigraphische 
Denkmaler  aus  Abessinien  nach  Ab- 
klatschen  von  Theodore  Bent,  Esq.  (Kai- 
serliche  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften  in 
Wien.  Denkschriften:  Philosophisch-his- 
torische  Classe.  Wien,  1894.  f°.  Bd.  43. 
82  p.,  4  pi.,  1  table.)  *  EF 

  Die  Obelisk-Inschrift  bei  Matara. 

(Vienna  Oriental  journal.  Vienna,  1896.  8°. 
v.  10,  p.  198-202.)  *  OAA 

Supplementary  to  Conti  Rossini. 

  On  the  inscriptions  from  Yeha  and 

Aksum.  (In:  James  Theodore  Bent,  The 
sacred  city  of  the  Ethiopians.  London, 
1893.  8°.  p.  231-285.)  BLK 

With  four  plates  of  inscriptions. 

Noeldeke,  Theodor.  D.  H.  Miiller,  Epi- 
graphische Denkmaler  aus  Abessinien, 
Wien,  1894.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische 
Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1894.  8°. 
Bd.  48,  p.  367-379.)  *  OAA 

Rahlfs,  Alfred.  Zu  den  altabessinischen 
Konigsinschriften.  (Oriens  Christianus. 
Leipzig,  1916.  4°.  Neue  Serie,  Bd.  6,  p.  282- 
313.)  f  ZNB 


Bible 

Apocrypha  and  Pseudepigraphia 


Old  Testament 

Biblia  Veteris  Testamenti  Aethiopica,  in 
quinque  tomos  distributa,  ad  librorum  manu- 
scriptorum  fidem  edidit  et  apparatu  critico 
instruxit  Dr.  Augustus  Dillmahn.  v.  1,  2,  5. 
Lipsiae,  1853-61;  Berolini,  1894.  sq.  8°. 

No  more  published.  *OEE 

I.  Veteris  Testamenti  Aethiopici  tomus  primus,  sive 
Octateuchus  Aethiopicus.  Ad  librorum  manuscriptorum 
fidem  edidit  et  apparatu  critico  instruxit  Dr.  Augustus 
Dillmann,  Professor  Tubingensis.  Impensarum  partem 
suppeditante  Societate  Germanorum  Orientali.  Lip- 
siae: Sumptibus  Fr.  Crr.  [sic!  Chr.]  Guil.  Vogelii, 
1853.   3  p.l.,  485(1)  p.,  1  L,  219(1)  p.    sq.  8°. 

v.  1  was  issued  partly  at  the  expense  of  the  German 
Oriental  Society  in  three  parts:  (1)  Genesis- Levi- 
ticus (1853);  (2)  Numbers  and  Deuteronomy  (1854); 
(3)  Joshua-Ruth  (1855). 

The  postscript  (dated  1  February  1855)  at  the  end 
of  part  three  explains  that  further  publication  of  the 
work  was  suspended  owing  to  lack  of  funds. 

This  edition  of  the  Octateuch  is  based  on  four 
mss.,  which  the  editor  designates  by  the  letters  F,  H, 
G,  C.  The  oldest  ms.  (Codex  F),  now  in  possession 
of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  contains  a 
colophon  from  which  it  appears  that  it  was  presented 
by  Yeshaq  or  Isaac,  the  Negus  who  reigned  from 
1414  to  1429,  to  the  monks  of  the  Abyssinian  mon- 
astery at  Jerusalem.  Codex  H  is  a  copy  of  F,  made 
by  J.  H.  Michaelis.  Codex  G,  now  in  the  Bodleian 
Library,  was  made  for  James  Bruce,  the  African 
traveler,  between  1768  and  1773,  and  is  very  carelessly 
executed.  Codex  C  is  a  carefully  executed  ms.  of  the 
seventeenth  century  (c.  1650)  and  was  acquired  by 
Eduard  Ruppell  during  his  sojourn  in  Abyssinia. 


ii.  Veteris  Testamenti  Aethiopici  tomus  secundus, 
sive  Libri  Regum,  Paralipomenon,  Esdrae,  Esther. 
Ad  librorum  manuscriptorum  fidem  edidit  et  apparatu 
critico  instruxit  Dr.  Augustus  Dillmann.  Professor 
Kiliensis.  Lipsiae:  Sumptibus  Societatis  Germanorum 
Orientalis,  1861.   vi  p.,  1  L,  96,  59  p.   sq.  8°. 

The  59  p.  are:  Pars  posterior,  quae  continet  ap- 
paratum  criticum. 

II.  Veteris  Testamenti  Aethiopici  tomus  secundus, 
sive  _  Libri  Regum,  Paralipomenon,  Esdrae,  Esther. 
Fasciculus  secundus,  quo  continentur  Libri  Regum 
in  et  iv.  Ad  librorum  manuscriptorum  fidem  edidit 
et  apparatu  critico  instruxit  Dr.  Augustus  Dillmann, 
Professor  Berolinensis.  Lipsiae:  Sumptibus  Socie- 
tatis Germanorum  Orientalis,  1871.  2  p.l.,  98,  78  p. 
sq.  8°. 

The  78  p.  are:  Pars  posterior,  quae  continet  ap- 
paratum  criticum. 

v.  Veteris  Testamenti  Aethiopici  tomus  quintus, 
quo  continentur  Libri  Apocryphi,  Baruch,  Epistola 
Jeremiae,  Tobith,  Judith,  Ecclesiasticus,  Sapienta,  Es- 
drae apocalypsis,  Esdrae  graecus.  Ad  librorum  manu- 
scriptorum fidem  edidit  et  apparatu  critico  instruxit 
Dr.  Augustus  Dillmann,  Professor  Berolinensis.  Bero- 
lini: Prostat  apud  A.  Asher  et  Socius,  1894.  5  p.l., 
221  p.,  front,  (port.)  sq.  8°. 

Portrait  is  that  of  Dillmann,  and  the  first  pre- 
liminary leaf  is  obituary  notice  of  him. 


Octateuch 

The  Octateuch  in  Ethiopic,  according  to 
the  text  of  the  Paris  codex,  with  the  vari- 
ants of  five  other  manuscripts.  Edited  by 
Dr.  J.  Oscar  Boyd.  v.  1-2.   Leyden:  E.  J. 


40 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Bible  —  Old  Testament,  continued. 

Brill,  1905-11.  8°.  (Bibliotheca  Abessinica. 
v.  3-4.)  *OED 

No  more  published. 

Part  1 :  Genesis. 

Part  2:  Exodus  and  Leviticus. 

The  ms.  of  the  Ethiopic  Octateuch  in  the  Biblio- 
theque  Nationale  has  been  supposed  to  date  from  the 
end  of  the  thirteenth  century.  In  the  colophon  of  the 
Book  of  Joshua  it  is  stated  that  it  was  written  in 
the  reign  of  Yekuno  'Amlak  (1268-1283),  the  re- 
storer of  the  so-called  Salomonide  dynasty,  but  the 
writing  is  not  the  same  as  that  of  the  text,  and  the 
entry  is  believed  by  Dr.  Boyd  to  be  of  a  later  date. 

Reviewed  in  Princeton  theological  review  (by 
J.  O.  B.),  Princeton,  1910,  v.  8,  p.  128-129,  ZEA. 

Barton,  George  Aaron.  On  an  Ethiopic 
ms.  of  the  Octateuch  in  the  library  of  Hav- 
erford  College,  Pa.  (American  Oriental  So- 
ciety. Proceedings.  New  Haven,  1903.  8°. 
v.  16,  p.  cxcix-ccii.)  *  OAA 

Boyd,  James  Oscar.  The  text  of  the  Ethio- 
pic version  of  the  Octateuch,  with  special 
reference  to  the  age  and  value  of  the  Haver- 
ford  manuscript.  Leyden:  E.  J.  Brill,  1905. 

4  p.l.,  30  p.  8°.  (Bibliotheca  Abessinica. 
[V.]  2.)  *  OED 

Reviewed  in  Journal  asiatique  (by  A.  Guerinot), 
Paris,  1905,  serie  10,  tome  6,  p.  380-381,  *OAA; 
Deutsche  Literaturzeitung  (by  Rene  Basset),  Leip- 
zig, 1906,  col.  473-476,  NAA;  Literarisches  Zentral- 
blatt  (by  Reckendorf),  Leipzig,  1906,  col.  393-394, 
NAA;  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by  Well- 
hausen),  Berlin,  1907,  Jahrg.  169,  p.  171-173,  *DF. 

Genesis 

Palaestra  linguarum  orientalium,  hoc  est 
quatuor  primorum  capitum  Geneseos,  I.  Tex- 
tus  originalis  tarn  ex  Judaeorum  quam  Sa- 
maritanorum  traditionibus.  n.  Targumin ; 
seu  Paraphrases  orientales  praecipuae, 
nempe:  I.  Chaldaicae  (...),  n.  Syriaca,  HL 
Samaritana,  iv.  Arabica,  v.  Aethiopica,  vi. 
Persica.  Omnia  eum  versione  Latina,  ex 
Biblis  polyglottis  Anglicanis  maximam  par- 
tem desumta  &.  .  .edita. .  .cura  Georgii 
Othonis...  Francofvrti  ad  Moenvm:  impen- 
sis  Friderici  Knochii,  m.dccii.  9  p.l.,  140, 
147(1)  p.,  1  1.  4°.  *PDP 

Paraphrasis  ^Ethiopica  cum  versione  Latina,  p. 
107-120. 

Ruth 

Baradeta  'egzi'abhcr  za-Rilt.  Liber  Ruth, 
aethiopice,  e  vetusto  manuscripto,  recens  ex 
Oriente  allato  erutus,  &  latinitate  fideliter 
donatus.  Nunc  primum...in  lucem  editus  a 
Johan.  Georg.  Nisselio...  Lugduni  Bata- 
vorum  :  Typis  &  impensis  Authoris,  cio  ioc  lx. 

5  p.l.,  12  p.  4°.  *KB 

Bound  with:  Bible.  O.  T.  Malachi.  1661. 


Esther 

Le  Livre  d'Esther.  Version  ethiopienne, 
publiee  et  traduite  par  Francisco  Maria 
Esteves  Pereira.    [Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et 


Cie.,  1911.]  56  p.  4°.  (Patrologia  Orientalis. 
tome  9,  fasc.  1.)  *  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Oriens  Christianus  (by  Carl  Bezold), 
Leipzig,  1912,  Neue  Serie,  Bd.  2,  p.  157-159,  f  ZNB. 

Book  of  Job 

Le  Livre  de  Job.  Version  ethiopienne, 
publiee  et  traduite  par  Francisco  Maria 
Esteves  Pereira.  [Paris:  Firmin-Didot  & 
Cie.,  1905.]  2  p.l.,  (1)566-688  p.  4°.  (Pa- 
trologia Orientalis.  tome  2,  fasc.  5.)  f*  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Revue  biblique  Internationale  (by 
Eugene  Tisserant),  Paris,  1908,  nouv.  serie,  tome  5, 
p.  437-438,  *YIA. 

Psalms 

Basma  Ab  wa-Waled  wa-Manfas  Qedus 
ahadfi  'Amlak.  Daunt.  Zezu'etii  mashaf 
mazmurat  za-Dawit.  Nabiy  wangusa 
Esrael.  Wa'ahatamo  barad'eta  'Egzi'abeher 
'Iyob  Ludolf  watahatma  bahagara  Frank- 
furt babhera  Garmanya  'enta  yeblewa 
'  Alem-ahna.  Ba  1704  'amat  amledata'  Egzi'- 
ena  wamadhanlna  'Iyasus  Krestos  lotu 
sebhat.  IVabahasabsa  za-'Ityopya  ba  1793 
'amat.  187  p.  sq.  8°.  *  OEE 

The  date  1704  given  here  may  be  an  error  for 
1701,  as  the  numerals  1  and  4  are  much  alike  in 
Ethiopic.  In  1701  Ludolf,  assisted  by  J.  H.  Mich- 
aelis,  published  an  edition  of  the  Psalms,  based  on 
the  editions  of  1513  and  1518  and  on  three  mss.  in 
the  Bodleian,  Berlin,  and  Amsterdam  libraries,  with 
Latin  translation.  At  the  same  time  another  edition, 
containing  the  Ethiopic  text  alone,  with  an  Ethiopic 
title-page,  and  no  preliminary  matter,  was  published 
by  Ludolf.  In  his  preface  to  the  other  edition  Ludolf 
explains  that  the  issue  of  the  Ethiopic  text  alone  was 
intended  for  gratuitous  circulation  by  the  "Indian 
Company"  among  the  Abyssinians:  "Quamobrem 
nullum  gratius  officium  Christianas  huic  nationi  a  me 
praestari  posse  putavi,  quam  si  Psalterium  .Ethiopicum, 
quod  apud  illos  non  aliter  quam  in  membrana  manu- 
scriptum  habetur,  et  caro  satis  yenditur,  typis  man- 
dari,  ejusque  plurima  exemplaria  nomine  Societatis 
Indies  in  Habessinia  gratis  distribui  curarem;  ea 
tamen  ratione,  ut  ea,  quae  in  Habessiniam  destin- 
arentur,  ^Ethiopice  tantum :  quae  vero  pro  nostratibus 
imprimerentur,  cum  versione  literali  et  notis  in  lucem 
prodirent."  And  again,  "Ut  autem  Habessinis,  id 
valde  cupientibus,  at  typographia  destitutis,  gratum 
officium  praestaremus,  sat  multa  exemplaria  ^Ethio- 
pice  tantum  imprimi  curavimus." 

The  library  copy  is  of  a  later  issue,  of  1793. 

Mashaf  mazmurat  za-Dawit.  Psalterium 
Davidis  ^Ethiopice.  Londini :  Excusum  A.  J. 
&  T.  Clarke. .. impensis  Sodalitii  Biblias  in 
Magna  Britannia,  1815.  192  p.  8°.     *  OEE 

A  reprint  from  Ludolf's  edition  of  1701.  Issued 
in  an  edition  of  2,000  copies  for  circulation  in  Abys- 
sinia. 

Psalterium  Davidis  Aethiopice  et  Am- 
harice.  Basileae :  Impressit  C.  F.  Spittler, 
1872.  1  p.l.,  207  p.  12°.  *OEE 

Title-page  also  in  Ethiopic. 

The  Amharic  text  is  based  on  that  printed  in  1842 
by  the  Society  for  Propagating  Christian  Knowledge. 
Edited  by  Johann  Martin  Flad.  Printed  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  S.  P.  C.  K.  and  the  Bible  Societies  cf 
Stuttgart  and  Basel.  The  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society  paid  for  the  binding. 

Dorx,  Johannes  Albrecht  Bernhard.  De 
Psalterio  aethiopico  commentatio,  quam  dis- 
sertations loco... die  iv  Maii  A.  mdcccxxv 
publiee  defendet  J.  A.  B.  Dorn...  Lipsiae : 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


41 


Bible  —  Old  Testament,  continued. 
Psalms,  continued. 

Litteris  Breitkopfio-Haertelianis  [1825].  2 
p.l.,  70  p.,  1  1.  4°.  *OEE 

Contents:  Instituti  ratio.  De  bibliis  Aethiopum 
sacris  in  universum.  De  Psalterio  Aethiopico  in  specie. 
De  manuscriptis  et  editionibus  Psalteri  (A.  De  manu- 
scriptis.  B.  De  editionibus).  De  versionis  nostrae 
auctoritate  secundum  iudicia  doctorum,  et  quo  ex 
textu  concinnata  sit.  De  Aethiopis  cum  textu  Hebraeo 
convenientia.  De  versionis  nostrae  indole.  De  di- 
visione  Psalteri  Aethiopici.  Comparationem  versionis 
Aethiopicae  cum  Graecis  et  Arabe  continens.  De  ver- 
bis Aethiopum  plurilitteris. 

Jeremiah 

Saqoqazva  'Ermyas  nably.  Die  Klagelieder 
Jeremiae  in  der  aethiopischen  Bibeliibersetz- 
ung.  Auf  Grund  handschriftlicher  Quellen 
mit  textkritischen  Anmerkungen  herausge- 
geben  von  Dr.  Johannes  Bachmann.  Halle 
a.  S.:  Max  Niemeyer,  1893.  58  p.  8°.  *  OEE 

Aethiopischer  Text,  p.  7-22.  Die  griechische  Vor- 
lage  des  Aethiopien,  p.  25-54. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  critique  (by  A.  Loisy),  Paris, 
1894,  nouv.  serie,  tome  37,  p.  398,  NAA. 


Minor  Prophets 

Mashafa  nabiyat  n'uasan  balesana  Ge'ez. 
Dodekapropheton  Aethiopum  oder  die  zwolf 
kleinen  Propheten  der  aethiopischen  Bibel- 
tibersetzung  nach  handschriftlichen  Quellen 
herausgegeben  und  mit  textkritischen  An- 
merkungen versehen  von  Dr.  Johannes 
Bachmann.  Heft  1-2.  Halle  a.  S.:  Max 
Niemeyer,  1892.   8°.  *  OEE 

Heft  1 :  Der  Prophet  Obadia.  Heft  2 :  Der  Prophet 
Maleachi. 

Cover  of  Heft  2  is  dated  1893. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  critique  (by  A.  Loisy),  Paris, 
1894,  nouv.  serie,  v.  37,  p.  398,  NAA;  Literarisches 
Centralblatt  (by  F.  P[raetorius] ) ,  Leipzig,  1893,  cols. 
1001-1003,  1137,  NAA. 

Joel 

Bameherata  'egzxabeher:  Prophetia  Joel, 
^Ethiopice,  interpretatione  Latina  ad  verbum 
donata,  fk  perbrevi  vocum  Hebraicarum  & 
Arabicarum  harmonia  illustrata ;  labore  & 
stvdio  M.  Theodori  Petraei,  Cimbri...  Lug- 
duni  Batavorum  :  Sumptibus  auctoris,  &  typis 
Nisselianis,  cioioclxi.  1  p.l.,  10  p.  4°.    *  KB 

With  verbal  equivalents  in  Hebrew,  Arabic,  Syriac, 
Greek,  and  Latin  given  in  the  margin. 

Bound  with:  Bible.   Old  Testament.  Malachi. 


Amos 

O  Livro  do  profeta  Amos  e  a  sua  versao 
etiopica.  (Academia  das  sciencias  de  Lisboa. 
Boletim  da  segunda  classe.  Coimbra,  1918. 
8°.   v.  11,  p.  472-534.)  *  ES 

i.  Os  profetas  hebreus.  u.  Os  profeta  Amos.  ill. 
Versao  etiopica  do  Livro  de  Amos.  Text  and  variants 
(of  the  Ethiopic).  Translation. 

Jonah 

T  cubit  za-Yonas.  Prophetia  Ionae,  ex 
^thiopico  in  Latinum  ad  verbum  versa,  et 


notis  atque  adagiis  illustrata;  cui  adjungun- 
tur  quatuor  Geneseos  capita,  e  vetustissimo 
manuscripto  /Ethiop.  eruta.  Nunc  primum 
. .  .publicata  a  M.  Theodoro  Petraeo. . .  Lug- 
duni  Batavorum:  Sumptibus  auctoris,  & 
typis  Nisselianis,  cioldclx.  1  p.l.,  36  p.  4°. 

Ethiopic  and  Latin  in  parallel  columns.  *  KB 
p.  26-28  misnumbered  18-20. 

With  the  letters  of  the  name  Iyasos  (Jesus)  ar- 
ranged in  the  four  angles  of  a  cross  at  the  top. 

The  Book  of  Jonah  in  four  oriental  ver- 
sions, namely,  Chaldee,  Syriac,  Aethiopic 
and  Arabic,  with  glossaries.  Edited  by  W. 
Wright.  London:  Williams  and  Norgate, 
1857.  vii(i)  p.,  2  1.,  148  p.  8°.  *  OBC 

The  Ethiopic  text  is  from  the  edition  of  Petraeus, 
Lugduni  Batavorum,  1660,  collated  with  one  ms.  in 
the  Bodleian  and  one  in  the  British  Museum. 

Zcphaniah 

Bameherata  Egzi'abchcr  tenblt  za-Sofon- 
yas.  Prophetia  Sophoniae,  summa  diligentia 
ad  fidem  vetustissimi  ms.  codicis  fideliter  in 
Latinum  versa;  nunc  primum  ex  Oriente 
cum  reliquis  Prophetis  minoribus  in  Euro- 
pam  allata,  &  in  literarii  orbis  commodum 
publici  juris  facta  a  Joh.  Georg  Nisselio... 
Lugduni  Batavorum:  Typis  &  impensis 
Nisselianus,  cioioclx.  1  p.l.,  8  p.  4°.     *  KB 

Ethiopic  and  Latin  in  parallel  columns. 
Bound  with:  Bible.  O.  T.  Malachi. 

Zachariah 

Kramer,  Friedrich  Oswald.  Die  athio- 
pische  Ubersetzung  des  Zacharias.  Text, 
zum  ersten  Male  herausgegeben,  Prole- 
gomena, Commentar.  Eine  Vorstudie  zur 
Geschichte  und  Kritik  des  Septuaginta- 
textes.  Erstes  Heft.  Leipzig:  Dorffling  & 
Franke,  1898.  viii,  30  p.  8°.  *  OEE 

Inaugural  dissertation. 

Malachi 

Bunlruta  'Amlakna.  Vaticinium  Mala- 
chiae,  prophetarum  ultimi,  ^Ethiopice,  Latino 
idiomate  ad  verbum  donatum,  &  ad  usum 
ac  captum  tgov  qpiXovXcuaaoov  accomodatum; 
nunc  primum  publici  juris  factum  a  M. 
Theodoro  Petraeo,  Cimbro...  Lugduni  Bat- 
avorum: Sumptibus  Auctoris,  &  typis  Nis- 
selianis, cioio  clxi.  3  p.l.,  10  p.  4°.      *  KB 

The  Latin  is  interlinear. 

The  last  page  contains  Isaiah  lvi.  1-7. 

With  this  are  bound  ten  other  pamphlets.  On  the 
fly-leaf  is  written  in  an  eighteenth  century  hand: 
"Hoc  Exemplar  fuit  Caroli  Secundi,  Magnae  Britan- 
niae  Regis,  indeque  in  Bibliothecam  Edw.  Hyde,  Clar- 
endoniae  Comitis,  et  magni  Angliae  Cancellarii,  tran- 
siit."  The  royal  arms  and  initials  CR  are  stamped 
on  the  boards. 

Apocrypha 

Book  of  Baruch 

Liber  Baruch.  (In:  C.  F.  A.  Dillmann, 
Chrestomathia  Aethiopica.  Lipsiae:  T.  O. 
Weigel,  1866.  8°.  p.  1-15.)  *  OEE 

There  are  two  Books  of  Baruch  in  the  Abyssinian 
Church  having  canonical  authority,  the  one  translated 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


42 

Bible — Old  Testament :  Apocrypha,  cont'd. 

from  the  Septuagint  and  the  one  here  printed  ("Rest 
of  the  Words  of  Baruch'')  for  the  first  time.  This 
second  book  is  included  in  the  Ethiopic  Bible  after 
Jeremiah.  The  work  was  written  in  Greek  in  the 
second  century  a.  d.,  and  certain  parts  point  to  a 
Jewish  original  now  lost.  Dillmann's  text  is  edited 
from  three  mss.,  which  according  to  Charles  are  of 
inferior  value. 

It  is  a  different  work  from  the  Syriac  Apocalypse 
of  Baruch. 

Le  Livre  de  Baruch  et  la  legende  de  Jere- 
mie.  Paris:  Librairie  de  l'Art  independant, 
1893.  2  p.l.,  39  p.  12°.  (Les  apocryphes 
ethiopiens  traduits  en  francais  par  Rene 
Basset,  i.)  *  OEE  (Bible) 

Appendice,  p.  30-39:  Fragments  du  Livre  de 
Baruch  de  Justin. 

.UTl^p    C]DV    THE  ]1tT7n    "ITD   1  £  D 

npa  ,D»nia  i»n  xbv  ,inn  nm  m»]  .xmv 
i.nbzz  ftman  »J3a  fori  law 
(rivn  Krakau,  1901.  8°.  v.  8,  p.  236-252.) 

*PBA 

Based  on  Dillmann's  Chrestomathia  Aethiopica, 
Lipsiae,  1866,  p.  1-15. 

Deaxe,  William  J.  The  Apocalypse  of 
Baruch.  (In  his:  Pseudepigraphia :  an  ac- 
count of  certain  apocryphal  sacred  writings 
of  the  Jews  and  earlv  Christians.  Edin- 
burgh: T.  &  T.  Clarke,  1891.  8°.  p.  130- 
162.)  *  PFF 

Book  of  Enoch 

Mashafa  Hen  ok  nab'iy.  Libri  Henoch 
Prophetae  versio  aethiopica,  quae  seculi  sub 
fine  novissimi  ex  Abyssinia  Britanniam 
advecta  vix  tandem  litterato  orbi  innotuit ; 
edita  a  Ricardo  Laurence...  Oxoniae :  Tvpis 
Academicis,  1838.  xii,  156  p.  8°.        *  OEE 

Ethiopic  text  only. 

Mashafa  Hen  ok  nobly.  The  Book  of 
Enoch  the  Prophet :  an  apocryphal  produc- 
tion, supposed  for  ages  to  have  been  lost; 
but  discovered  at  the  close  of  the  last  century 
in  Abyssinia;  now  first  translated  from  an 
Ethiopic  ms.  in  the  Bodleian  Library.  By 
Richard  Laurence.  Third  edition,  revised  and 
enlarged.  Oxford:  Printed  by  S.  Colling- 
wood...for  John  Henry  Parker,  1838.  lix, 
250  p.  8°.  *  OEE 

Preliminary  dissertation,  p.  xi-lix.  The  Book  of 
Enoch,  p.  1-167.  The  Book  of  Enoch  as  selected  and 
arranged  by  the  Rev.  Edward  Murray,  p.  169-188. 
Extracts  from  the  Book  of  Enoch,  translated  from 
the  Ethiopic  into  Latin,  by  M.  de  Sacy,  p.  191-202. 
Extracts  from  the  Chronographia  of  George  Syncellus, 
as  quoted  by  Fabricius  in  his  Codex  Pseudepigraphus 
VeteTis  Testamenti,  v.  2,  p.  179-198,  p.  203-212. 
Remarks  [on  the  text],  p.  213-250. 

The  Book  of  Enoch  the  Prophet.  An 
apocryphal  production  supposed  for  ages  to 
have  been  lost,  but  discovered  at  the  close 
of  the  last  century  in  Abyssinia,  now  first 
translated  from  an  Ethiopic  ms.  in  the  Bod- 
leian Library.  By  Richard  Laurence.  Third 
ed.,  revised  and  enlarged.  Oxford,  1838.  (Re- 
printed in:  Clara  Smith.  Ireland's  great  fu- 


ture in  the  pages  of  Revelation.  Including 
first  part  of  the  Book  of  Enoch  a  genuine 
survival  from  the  flood.  Dublin :  Sealy  Bry- 
ers  and  Walker  [1916?].   12°.  p.  371-462.) 

*  YLY 

The  Book  of  Enoch  the  Prophet  trans- 
lated from  an  Ethiopic  ms.  in  the  Bodleian 
Library  by  the  late  Richard  Laurence.  The 
text  now  corrected  from  his  latest  notes, 
with  an  introduction  by  the  author  of  "The 
evolution  of  Christianity"  [Charles  Gill]. 
London:  Kegan  Paul,  Trench  &  Co.,  1883. 
1  p.L,  xlviii,  180  p.  12°.  *  PFF 

Liber  Henoch,  Aethiopice,  ad  quinque 
codicum  fidem  editus,  cum  variis  lectioni- 
bus.  Cura  Augusti  Dillmann.  Lipsiae: 
Sumptibus  Fr.  Chr.  Guil.  Vogelii,  1851.  iv, 
91  p.,  1  1.,  38  p.,  1  1.  sq.  8°.  *OEE 

The  38  p.  at  end  are  "Annotationes." 

 Another  copy.  *  PFF 

Das  Buch  Henoch.  Uebersetzt  und  er- 
klart  von  Dr.  A.  Dillmann.  Leipzig:  Fr. 
Chr.  Wilh.  Vogel,  1853.  2  p.l.,  lxii  p.,  1  1., 
331  p.  8°.  *OEE 

The  Book  of  Enoch;  translated  from  the 
Ethiopic,  with  introduction  and  notes  by 
Rev.  George  H.  Schodde.  Andover:  War- 
ren F.  Draper,  1882.  vii,  278  p.  12°.   *  OEE 

For  some  critical  notes  on  this  edition  see  Charles, 
The  Book  of  Enoch,  Oxford,  1893,  p.  7-9. 

Das  Buch  Henoch  aus  dem  Aethiopischen 
in  die  urspriinglich  hebraische  Abfassungs- 
sprache  zuriickubersetzt,  mit  einer  Ein- 
leitung  und  Noten  versehen  von  Lazarus 
Goldschmidt.  Berlin:  Verlag  von  Richard 
Heinrich,  1892.    1  p.l.,  xxvi,  91(1)  p.  8°. 

*PFF 

Translated  mainly  from  Dillmann's  German  version. 

Das  Buch  Henoch.  Athiopischer  Text 
herausgegeben  von  Dr.  Joh.  Flemming. 
Leipzig:  J.  C.  Hinrichs'sche  Buchhandlung, 
1902.  xv(i),  172  p.  8°.  (Texte  und  Unter- 
suchungen  zur  Geschichte  der  altchristlichen 
Literatur.  X.  F.  Bd.  7.)  ZE  (Texte) 

This  text  is  based  on  the  collation  of  14  mss. 
Renewed  in  American  journal  of  theology  (by  R.  H. 
Charles),  Chicago,  1903,  v.  7,  p.  689-703,  ZEA; 
Litcrarisches  Zcntralblatt  (by  C.  B[ezold]),  Leipzig, 
1905,  col.  913-916,  NAA;  Gottingische  gelehrte  An- 
seigen  (by  Hugo  Duensing),  Berlin,  1903,  Jahrg.  165, 
p.  623-632,  *DF. 

The  Ethiopic  version  of  the  Book  of 
Enoch,  edited  from  twenty-three  mss.  to- 
gether with  the  fragmentary  Greek  and 
Latin  versions,  by  R.  H.  Charles.  Oxford: 
Clarendon  Press,  1906.  xxxiii,  237(1)  p. 
sq.  8°.  (Anecdota  Oxoniensia.)        *  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Church  quarterly  review,  London, 
1908,  v.  66,  p.  440-442,  *DA ;  American  journal  of 
theology  (by  W.  Muss  Arnolt:  "one  of  the  most 
admirable  pieces  of  accurate  scholarly  work... an 
honor  both  to  the  learned  editor  as  well  as  to  the 
Anecdota  Oxoniensia") ,  Chicago,  1908,  v.  12,  p.  660- 
661,  ZEA;  Thcoloaische  Literaturzeitung  (by  Georg 
Beer),  Leipzig,  1910,  Jahrg.  35,  p.  653-654,  ZEA. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Bible  —  Old  Testament:  Apocrypha,  cont'd. 

Book  of  Enoch,  continued. 

Le  Livre  d'Henoch  traduit  sur  le  texte 
ethiopien  par  Frangois  Martin  et  par  L.  Del- 
aporte,  J.  Francon,  R.  Legris,  J.  Pressoir. . . 
Paris:  Letouzey  et  Ane,  1906.  cli(i),  319  p. 
8°.  *PFF 

Reviewed  in  Revue  de  I'Orient  chreticn  (by  F. 
Nau),  Paris,  1906,  tome  11,  p.  331-332,  *OAA;  Jour- 
nal asiatique  (by  R.  Duval),  Paris,  1906,  serie  10, 
tome  8,  p.  382-384,  *OAA;  Revue  semitique  (by 
Joseph  Halevy),  Paris,  1906,  tome  14,  p.  381-382, 
*OAA;  Revue  critique  (by  A.  Loisy),  Paris,  1906, 
nouv.  serie,  tome  62,  p.  325-326,  NAA ;  Bulletin 
critique  (by  J.  Cartier),  Paris,  1907,  tome  28,  p.  532— 
534,  NAA. 

Charles,  Robert  Henry.  The  recent  trans- 
lations and  the  Ethiopic  text  of  the  Book  of 
Enoch.  (Jewish  quarterly  review.  London, 
1893.  8°.  v.  5,  p.  325-3290  *  PBE 

The  translations  referred  to  are  those  by  Dillmann 
(German),  Schodde  (English),  and  Goldschmidt  (into 
Hebrew). 

Deane,  William  J.  The  Book  of  Enoch. 
(In  his:  Pseudepigraphia :  an  account  of  cer- 
tain apocryphal  sacred  writings  of  the  Jews 
and  early  Christians.  Edinburgh :  T.  &  T. 
Clarke,  1891.  8°.  p.  49-95.)  *  PFF 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
Noch  einige  Bemerkungen  zum  Buch  Hen- 
och. (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesell- 
schaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1861.  8°.  Bd. 
15,  p.  126-131.)  *OAA 

Ewald,  Georg  Heinrich.  Abhandlung  iiber 
des  athiopischen  Buches  Henokh,  Entste- 
hung  Sinn  und  Zusammensetzung.  (Gesell- 
schaft  der  Wissenschaften  zu  Gottingen. 
Abhandlungen.  Gottingen,  1856.  4°.  Bd.  6, 
p.  107-178.)  *  EE 

Communicated  to  the  Society  in  January,  1854. 

Halevy,  Joseph.  Recherches  sur  la  langue 
de  la  redaction  primitive  du  livre  d'Enoch. 
(Journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1867.  8°.  serie  6, 
tome  9,  p.  352-395.)  *  OAA 

An  anaiysis  of  the  text  published  by  Dillmann. 

Philippi,  Ferdinand.  Das  Buch  Henoch, 
sein  Zeitalter  und  sein  Verhaltnisz  zum 
Judasbriefe.  Ein  Beitrag  zur  neutestament- 
lichen  Isagogik.  Nebst  emem  Anhange 
iiber  Juda  v.  9  und  die  Mosesprophetie. 
Stuttgart:  Verlag  von  S.  G.  Liesching, 
1868.  2  p.l.,  191(1)  p.  8°.  *PFF 

Sacy,  Antoine  Isaac  Silvestre,  baron  de. 
Mashafa  Henoc  nabiv.  (Journal  des  savans. 
Paris,  1822.  8°.  p.  545-551,  587-595.)  3-OA 

A  critical  notice  of  Laurence's  edition  of  the  Book 
of  Enoch  the  Prophet,  Oxford,  1821. 

Schmidt,  Nathaniel.  The  original  language 
of  the  parables  of  Enoch.  (In:  Old  Testa- 
ment and  Semitic  studies  in  memory  of 
William  Rainey  Harper.  Chicago:  Uni- 
versity of  Chicago  Press,  1908.  4°.  v.  2,  p. 
329-349.)  *  OBC 


43 

Volkmar,  G.  Beitrage  zur  Erklarung  des 
Buches  Henoch  nach  dem  athiopischen 
Text.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesell- 
schaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1860.  8°.  Bd. 
14,  p.  87-134,  296.)  *  OAA 

Esdras 

Apocalypse  d'Esdras.  Paris:  Bibliotheque 
de  la  Haute  Science,  1899.  2  p.l.,  139  p.  12°. 
(Les  Apocryphes  ethiopiens  traduits  en 
frangais  par  Rene  Basset,  ix.)  *  OEE 

Za'ezra.  I.  Primi  Ezrae  libri,  qui  apud  vul- 
gatam  appellatur  quartus,  versio  ^thiopica; 
nunc  primo  in  medium  prolata,  et  Latine 
Angliceque  reddita,  a  Ricardo  Laurence... 
Oxoniae:  Typis  Academicis,  impensis  edi- 
toris,  1820.  vii,  322  p.  8°.  *  OEE 

Text  with  Latin  translation  on  opposite  pages, 
p.  2r167.  Collatio  Vulgata?  versionis,  p.  169-197. 
English  translation,  p.  199-277.  General  remarks  upon 
the  different  versions  of  this  book,  its  apocryphal 
character,  the  creed  of  its  author,  and  the  probable 
period  of  its  composition,  p.  279-320. 

Le  Troisieme  livre  de  'Ezra  (Esdras  et 
Nehemie  canonique).  Version  ethiopienne 
editee  et  traduite  en  francais  par  Francisco 
Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  Paris:  Firmin  Didot 
et  Cie.,  1919.  98  p.  4°.  (Patrologia  Ori- 
entalis.  tome  13,  fasc.  5.  2  p.l.,  p.  (1)646- 
738.)  *  OAC 

Book  of  Jubilees 

Mashafa  kufale:  sive  Liber  jubilaeorum  qui 
idem  a  Graecis  H  AEnTH  TENE^IS  in- 
scribitur  versione  Graeca  deperdita  nunc 
nonnisi  in  Geez  lingua  conservatus  nuper  ex 
Abyssinia  in  Europam  allatus.  Aethiopice  ad 
duorum  librorum  manuscriptorum  fidem 
primum  edidit  Dr.  Augustus  Dillmann.  Got- 
tingae :  Typis  F.  Guil.  Kaestneri,  1859.  x, 
166  p.,  1  1.  sq.  8°.  *OEE 

Exemplaria  facta  sunt  ducenta. 

"The  Book  of  Jubilees  purports  to  be  a  revelation 
given  by  God  to  Moses  through  the  medium  of  an 
angel,  and  containing  a  history,  divided  up  into  jubilee- 
periods  of  forty-nine  years,  from  the  creation  to  the 
coming  of  Moses."  The  work  was  most  probably 
originally  composed  in  Hebrew  in  the  last  half  of  the 
second  century  B.C.  The  Ethiopic,  however,  has  been 
made  from  a  Greek  translation.  Charles  believed  the 
author  to  have  been  a  Pharisee,  but  others,  with  more 
probability,  consider  the  author  to  have  belonged  to 
the  party  of  the  Hasidim,  referred  to  in  i  Maccabees, 
vii.  Leszynsky,  however,  seems  {Die  Saddusaer,  Ber- 
lin, 1912,  p.  179-236)  to  have  proved  conclusively 
that  the  author  was  a  Sadducee. 

Mashafa  kufale,  or  the  Ethiopic  version  of 
the  Hebrew  Book  of  Jubilees  otherwise 
known  among  the  Greeks  as  H  Aetitti  Tevs- 
oig.  Edited  from  four  manuscripts,  and 
critically  revised  through  a  continuous  com- 
parison of  the  Massoretic  and  Samaritan 
texts,  and  the  Greek,  Syriac,  Vulgate  and 
Ethiopic  versions  of  the  Pentateuch,  and 
further  emended  and  restored  in  accordance 
with  the  Hebrew,  Syriac,  Greek  and  Latin 
fragments  of  this  book  which  are  here  pub- 
lished in  full  by  R.  H.  Charles.  Oxford: 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


44 

Bible  —  Old  Testament:  Apocrypha,  cont'd. 

Clarendon  Press,  1895.  xxvii(i),  183(1)  p. 
8°.  (Anecdota  Oxoniensia.  v.  1,  part  8.) 

*OAC 

Reviewed  in  Jewish  quarterly  review  (by  D.  S. 
Margoliouth),  v.  7,  p.  546-548,  London,  1895,  *PBE, 

The  Book  of  Jubilees,  translated  from  a 
text  based  on  two  hitherto  uncollated  Ethi- 
opic  mss.  Bv  R.  H.  Charles.  (Jewish  quar- 
terly review.  London,  1893-95.  8°.  v.  5, 
p.  703-708;  v.  6,  p.  184-217,  710-745;  v.  7, 
p.  297-328.)  *  PBE 

Reprinted  in  The  Apocrypha  and  Pseudepigraphia 
of  the  Old  Testament  in  English.  .  .  Edited.  .  .by  R.  H. 
Charles,  Oxford,  1913,  v.  2,  p.  11-82. 

With  introduction,  p.  1-10.  Three-fourths  of  the 
introduction  "is  ieprinted  from  the  present  writer's 
introduction  to  his  commentary  on  the  Book  of  Jubi- 
lees." 

The  Book  of  Jubilees,  or,  the  Little  Gen- 
esis, translated  from  the  editor's  Ethiopic 
text,  and  edited,  with  introduction,  notes, 
and  indices  by  R.  H.  Charles.  London: 
Adam  and  Charles  Black,  1902.  xci,  275  p. 
8°.  *PFF 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen  oder  die  kleine 
Genesis;  aus  dem  Athiopischen  iibersetzt 
von  Dr.  A.  Dillmann.  (Jahrbucher  der 
biblischen  Wissenschaft.  Gottingen,  1850- 
51.  8°.  Jahrbuch  2,  p.  230-256;  Jahrbuch  3, 
p.  1-96.)  *  YIA 

The  Book  of  Jubilees.  Translated  from 
the  Ethiopic  by  George  H.  Schodde.  (The 
Bibliotheca  sacra.  Oberlin,  Ohio,  1885-87. 
8°.  v.  42,  p.  629-645;  v.  43,  p.  56-72,  356- 
371,  455-486,  727-745;  v.  44,  p.  426-459,  602- 
611.)  *  DA 

Introductory  notes,  v.  42,  p.  629-636. 

  Oberlin,  Ohio:  E.  J.  Goodrich,  1888. 

1  p.l.,  (i)x-xv,  131  p.  8°.  *PFF 

Reviewed  in  Sunday  school  times,  Philadelphia. 
1888,  v.  30,  p.  524,  tfZICN. 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen.  (In:  E.  F. 
Kautzsch,  Die  Apokryphen  und  Pseudepi- 
graphen  des  Alten  Testaments.  Tubingen: 
J.  C.  B.  Mohr,  1898-1900.  4°.  Bd.  2,  p.  31- 
119.)  *PFB 

Translated  by  Enno  Littmann  from  the  text  of 
R.  H.  Charles. 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen,  oder  die  kleine 
Genesis.  In's  Hebraische  iibersetzt,  mit 
einer  Einleitung  und  mit  Noten  versehen 
von  Salomon  Rubin.  Wien:  In  Commission 
der  Beck'schen  Universitats-Buchhandlung, 
1870.  xxx,  84  p.  8°.  *  PFF 

Pages  are  misnumbered:  xxx,  1-76,  97-104. 
Additional  title-page  in  Hebrew.   Text  in  Hebrew. 

Beer,  Bernhard.  Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen 
und  sein  Verhaltniss  zu  den  Midraschim. 
Ein  Beitrag  zur  orientalischen  Sagen-  und 
Alterthumskunde.  Leipzig:  Wolfgang  Ger- 
hard, 1856.  iv,  80  p.  8°.  *  PFF 


Deaxe.  William  J.  The  Book  of  Jubilees. 
(In  his:  Pseudepigraphia:  an  account  of  cer- 
tain apocryphal  sacred  writings  of  the  Jews 
and  early  Christians.  Edinburgh:  T.  &  T. 
Clarke,  1891.  8°.  p.  193-236.)  *  PFF 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
Beitrage  aus  dem  Buch  der  Jubilaen  zur 
Kritik  des  Pentateuch-Textes.  (Koniglich 
preussische  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften 
zu  Berlin.  Sitzungsberichte.  Berlin,  1883. 
4°.  Jahrg.  1883,  Abth.  i,  p.  323-340.)     *  EE 

Finkelstein,  Louis.  The  Book  of  Jubilees 
and  the  Rabbinic  Halaka.  (Harvard  theo- 
logical review.  Cambridge,  Mass.,  1923.  8°. 
v.  16,  p.  39-61.)  ZEA 

"The  book  is  the  product  of  a  sectarian,  belonging 
perhaps  to  a  sect  that  sought  to  bring  about  a  com- 
promise between  the  Pharisees  and  the  Sadducees." 

Frankel,  Zacharias.  Das  Buch  der  Ju- 
bilaen. (Monatsschrift  fur  Geschichte  und 
Wissenschaft  des  Judenthums.  Leipzig, 
1856.  8°.  Jahrg.  5,  p.  311-316,  380-400.) 

*PBC 

Jellenek,  Adolph.  [Buch  der  Jubilaen.]  (In 
his:  Bet  ha-Midrash.  Leipzig,  1855.  8°. 
Theil  3,  p.  x-xiv.)  *  PLB 

Kohler.  Kaufmann.  Book  of  Jubilees. 
(The  Jewish  encvclopaedia.  New  York,  1904. 
4°.  v.  7,  p.  301-304.)  *  R-*PBZ 

Singer,  Wilhelm.  Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen, 
oder  die  Leptogenesis.  Erster  Theil:  Ten- 
denz  und  Ursprung.  Zugleich  ein  Beitrag 
zur  Religionsgeschichte.  Stuhlweissenburg 
(Ungarn) :  Ed.  Singer'sche  Buchhandlung, 
1898.  2  p.l.,  322  p.  8°.  *  PFF 

Contents:  Einleitung.  i.  Die  Tendenz  der  Lepto- 
genesis. ii.  Der  Paulinismus  und  die  Leptogenesis. 
in.  Der  exclusive  Standpunkt  der  Leptogenesis.  iv. 
Uebersicht  der  antipaulinischen  Polemik  d.  Lepto- 
genesis. v.  Der  judenchristliche  Ursprung  der  Lepto- 
genesis. vi.  Die  Abfassungszeit  der  Leptogenesis. 

Ascension  of  Isaiah 

Ergata  I  say  y  as  nabay:  Ascensio  Isaiae  vatis, 
opusculum  pseudepigraphum,  multis  adhinc 
seculis,  ut  videtur,  deperditum,  nunc  autem 
apud  ^thiopas  compertum,  et  cum  versione 
Latina  anglicanaque  publici  juris  factum,  a 
Ricardo  Laurence.  Oxoniae:  Typis  Acade- 
mis  impensis  editoris,  1819.  viii,  180  p.  8°. 

*  OEE 

The  Ascension  of  Isaiah,  translated  from 
the  Ethiopic  version,  together  with  the  new 
Greek  fragment,  the  Latin  versions  and  the 
Latin  translation  of  the  Slavonic,  is  here 
published  in  full.  Edited  with  introduction, 
notes,  and  indices  by  R.  H.  Charles.  Lon- 
don: Adam  and  Charles  Black,  1900.  lxxiii 
(i),  155  p.  12°.  *OEE 

Reviewed  in  Zhurnal  Ministcrstva  Narodnavo  Pros- 
veshcheniya  (by  K.  P.  Uspenski),  St.  Peterburg, 
1908,  chast  18,  p.  179-187,  *QCA. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


45 


Bible  —  Old  Testament :  Apocrypha,  cont'd. 
Ascension  of  Isaiah,  continued. 

"Ascensio  Isaiae."  Translated  from  the 
critical  edition  of  the  Ethiopic  text  of  Prof. 
Dillmann,  by  Rev.  Geo.  H.  Schodde^  (The 
Lutheran  quarterly.  Gettysburg,  1878.  8°. 
new  series,  v.  8,  p.  513-538.)  *  DA 

Explanatory  notes,  p.  535-538. 

L'Ascension  dTsaie.  Paris:  Librairie  de 
l'Art  independant,  1894.  2  p.l.,  55  p.  12°. 
(Les  apocryphes  ethiopiens  traduits  en  fran- 
cais  par  Rene  Basset,  m.)     *  OEE  (Bible) 

A  translation  of  Dillmann's  text  aiming  at  "smooth- 
ness rather  than  exactness  of  expression." 

Ascension  dTsaie.  Traduction  de  la  ver- 
sion ethiopienne  avec  les  principales  vari- 
antes  des  versions  grecque,  latines  et  slave, 
introduction  et  notes  par  Eugene  Tisserant. 
Paris:  Letouzey  et  Ane,  1909.  2  p.l.,  252  p. 
8°.  (Documents  pour  l'etude  de  la  Bible. 
[no.  3.])  *OEE 

Deaxe,  William  J.  The  ascension  of  Isaiah. 
(British  and  foreign  evangelical  review.  Lon- 
don, 1888.  8°.  v.  37,  p.  664-690.)  ZEA 

 (In  his:  Pseudepigraphia;  an 

account  of  certain  apocryphal  sacred  writ- 
ings of  the  Jews  and  earlv  Christians.  Edin- 
burgh: T.  &  T.  Clark,  1891.  8°.  p.  236-275.) 

*  PFF 

Martin,  Frangois.  Ascension  d'Isaie, 
chap,  i,  v.  8.  (Orientalische  Litteratur-Zei- 
tung.  Berlin,  1908.  f°.  Bd.  11,  col.  220-222.) 

f*  OAA 

On  diverse  interpretations  of  the  verse. 

Stade,  Bernhard.  De  Isaiae  vaticiniis 
Aethiopicis.  Dissertatio  historica  critica 
quam. .  .defendet  Bernhardus  Stade...  Lip- 
siae:  Breitkopf  &  Hartel  [1873].   58  p.  8°. 

*OEE 

  ...De  Isaiae  vaticiniis  Aethiopicis 

diatribe.  Lipsiae:  Sumptibus  F.  C.  W.  Vog- 
elii,  1873.  viii,  131  p.  8°.  *  OEE 


Maccabees 

Horovitz,  Josef.  Das  athiopische  Macca- 
baerbuch.  (Zeitschrift  fur  Assvriologie. 
Strassburg,  1906.   8°.   Bd.  19,  p.  194-233.) 

*OCL 

The  Ethiopic  Book  of  Maccabees  is  a  quite  dif- 
ferent work  from  either  of  the  Apocryphal  Books  of 
Maccabees.  It  is  little  more  than  a  romance. 

Rahlfs,  Alfred.  Uber  das  Fehlen  der 
Makkabaerbiicher  in  der  athiopischen  Bi- 
beliibersetzung.  (Zeitschrift  fur  alttestament- 
liche  Wissenschaft.  Giessen,  1908.  8°.  Bd. 
28,  p.  63-64.)  *  PD 


New  Testament 

Testamentvm  Novvm  cvm  Epistola  Pavli 
ad  Hebreos  tantum,  cum  concordantijs 
Euangelistarum  Eusebij  &  numeratione 
omnium  verborum  eorundem.  Missale  cum 
benedictione  incensi  cerse  et  c.  Alphabetum 
in  lingua.  .  .gheez,  idest  libera  quia  a  nulla 
alia  originem  duxit,  &  vulgo  dicitur  Chaldea, 
Quae  omnia  Fr.  Petrus  Ethyops  auxilio 
piorum  sedente  Paulo  .III.  Pont.  Max.  & 
Claudio  illius  regni  Imperatore  imprimi  cur- 
auit.  Anno  Salvtis  m.d.xlviii.  4°.         *  KB 

The  first  edition  of  the  New  Testament  in  Ethiopic. 
It  was  edited  by  three  Abyssinian  monks  of  the  mon- 
astery of  St.  Stefano  at  Rome,  whose  names  are 
given  as  Tesfa  Sion,  Tensea  Waldus,  and  Zaslaskus, 
otherwise  Brothers  Peter,  Paul,  and  Bernardin.  They 
were  assisted  by  Paulus  Gualterius  Aretinus  and 
Marianus  Victorius  Reatinus. 

This  copy  is  the  first  part  only,  ending  with  fol. 
176.  The  second  part  containing  the  Epistles  was 
issued  in  the  following  year,  with  a  preface  in  Ethiopic 
and  Latin  dated  1549,  and  continuous  foliation  and 
register. 

This  copy  formerly  belonged  to  the  monastery  of 
S.  Taurinus  of  Evreux  in  the  department  of  Eure, 
France,  as  shown  by  the  neatly  written  inscription  on 
the  title-page:  Ex  libris  monastcrij  S.  Taurinj  Ebrioc. 
ord.  S.  Bencdictij. 

The  lower  half  of  the  title-page  is  filled  with  an 
ornate  woodcut  of  the  arms  of  Pope  Paul  in. 

f.  lv:  Preface  in  italic:  Christiano  Et  Pio  Lec- 
tori: Permanav.it  sanctum  Iesu  Christi  Euangelium 
ad  omnes  nationes .  .  .  This  preface  occupies  all  of 
recto  of  fol.  2  and  seven  lines  of  verso,  ending  with 
the  words:  possint.  Vale. 

f.  3r:  Title  in  Ethiopic  in  seventeen  lines,  beginning 
with  the  words:  Abiy  '  cgzx'abeher.  The  first  line  is 
rubricated,  as  is  also  the  name  Maryam  [Mary]  in 
the  fifth,  the  name  Tasfa  Sydn  in  the  eleventh  and 
Tasfa  Sydn  mcsla  Petrds  Pawlos  zayafaqra  bait- 
yopiya  in  the  fifteenth.  The  remainder  of  the  Ethiopic 
title-page  is  occupied  by  a  less  ornate  coat  of  arms 
of  Pope  Paul  in,  below  which  are  the  words:  Pawlus 
tirsius  papas  salsay. 

f.  3v-f.  5r:  Tabvla  Matthei.  This  is  the  table  of  the 
four  evangelists,  in  Ethiopic,  printed  in  red  and 
black,  in  two  columns. 

f.  5V:  Alphabctvm  scv  potivs  Syllabarium  literarum 
Chaldearum. 

f.  6r-f.  6V:  Vides  (o  lector)  retro  [etc.].  An  ex- 
planation of  the  alphabet  ending  with  the  colophon: 
Impressit  omnia,  quae  in  prescnti  Libro  continentur 
Vale-  /  rius  Doricus:  Romae,  impensis  Petri  Comos 
Etliiopis  /  Et  Angelus  de  Oldradis  eius  Operarius 
compo-  /  suit.  Anno  a  natiuitate  Domini  /  m.d.xlviii. 

f.  7r_v.  [Letter  of  Eusebius  to  Carpianus,  on  the 
former's  scheme  of  canons  for  a  harmony  of  the 
Gospels.] 

f.  8r-f.  12v.  [A  concordance  of  the  Gospels,  printed 
in  red,  in  four,  five,  and  six  columns  to  a  folio.] 

Text  of  New  Testament: 

f.  1-f.  28v:  Evangelivm  Matthei.  f.  29r-f.  46r: 
Evangclivm  Marci.  At  the  foot  of  fol.  46r  is  a 
woodcut  of  Christ  rising  from  the  tomb.  f.  46v-f.  76v: 
Evangelivm  Lvcae.  With  woodcut  of  Christ  bearing 
the  cross,  f.  77^-f.  100v:  Evangelivm  Ioannis.  f.  101r- 
f.  113r:  Apocalipsis  Ioannis.  With  woodcut  at  foot  of 
fol.  113r:  Earchiel  adivtor.  f.  113v-f.  116v:  [Epistle 
of  S.  John],  f.  117r-f.  121v  (col  1):  [Epistle  of  S. 
Peter],  f.  121v  (col.  2)-f.  124r  (col.  1):  TEpistle  of 
S.  James],  f.  124r  (col.  2)-f.  125r  (col.  1):  [Epistle 
of  S.  Jude].  f:  125r  (col.  l)-f.  131r:  Paulus  ad 
Hacbrcos.  i.  131v-f.  132v:  [Six  woodcuts  illustrative 
of  Biblical  subjects],  f.  133r-f.  15 7r :  Actus  Apos- 
tolorum.  f.  158r-f.  167v:  Introitvs  Misse.  f.  168r-f. 
169v:    [Anaphora   of   Our   Lord  Jesus  Christ].  f. 


46 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Bible  —  New  Testament,  continued. 

170r-f.  176v:  [Anaphora  of  Our  Lady  Mary,  which 
Heryaqos,  Abba  of  the  city  of  Behensa  composed]. 

Colophon:  Impressum  est  opus  hoc:  Romae  per 
Valerium  Doricii:  ?  Ludouicii  Fratres  Brixianos: 
Anno  Virginei  partus  m.d.xlviii. 

Formerly  in  possession  of  the  Duke  of  Sussex,  with 
his  bookplate. 

Novum  Testamentum  Domini  Nostri  et 
Servatoris  Jesu  Christi  Aethiopice.  Ad  codi- 
cum  manuscriptorum  fidem  edidit  Thomas 
Pell  Piatt.  Londini :  Impressit  Ricardus 
Watts.  Impensis  Societatis  ad  Biblia  Sacra 
in  Britannia  et  apud  exteras  gentes  evulgada 
institutae,  1830.  364  1.  sq.  8°.  *  OEE 

In  accordance  with  the  wishes  of  the  Abyssinians 
the  text  is  rubricated  and  printed  in  heavy  character. 
The  type  used  in  this  edition  was  cast  from  matrices 
prepared  by  Ludolf  and  preserved  in  the  Public 
Library  at  Frankfort-on-Main. 

With  two  Ethiopic  title-pages  in  addition  to  the 
general  title  in  Latin. 

The  text  is  in  two  parts:  (1)  The  Gospels,  Bx  to 
SSib.  "The  text  of  this  edition  is  a  recension  based 
on  a  collation  of  Ethiopic  mss.  in  the  Royal  Library 
at  Paris;  of  certain  mss.  lent  to,  or  purchased  by, 
the  B.  F.  B.  S.;  and  of  others  containing  between 
them  the  whole  N.  T.,  purchased  at  Jerusalem  by 
J.  Jowett,  and  presented  by  the  C.  M.  S.  in  1824; 
the  whole  being  compared  with  the  Ethiopic  text  given 
in  the  London  Polyglot.  Edited  by  T.  Pell  Piatt." 
The  imprint  on  the  Ethiopic  title-page  is  dated  1827. 

(2)  Acts  —  Revelation,  TTi  to  4Z2a,  with  imprint 
on  Ethiopic  title-page  dated  1830.  The  text  of  this 
section  was  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  the  Gospels 
above. 


ditis  quibusdam  variae  lectionis  notis.  a  joh. 
Georgio  Nisselio  &  Theodoro  Petraeo... 
Lvgd.  Batavor.:  Ex  officina  Johannis  & 
Danielis  Elsevier,  cio  ioc  liv.  24  p.  4°.  *  KB 

Bound  with:  Bible.  O.  T.  Malachi. 


Apocrypha 

Shepherd  of  Hennas 

Hermae  Pastor.  Aethiopice  primum  ed- 
idit et  Aethiopica  Latine  vertit  Antonius 
D'Abbadie.  Lipsiae :  In  commissis  apud  F. 
A.  Brockhausium,  1860.  vii,  183  p.  8°. 
(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Abhandlungen.  Bd.  2,  Heft  1.)         *  OAA 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anseigen  (by 
H[einrich]  E[wald]),  Gottingen,  1860,  Bd.  2,  p.  1401- 
1410,  *DF;  Dublin  review,  London,  1862,  v.  51,  p. 
144-152,  *DA. 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
Bemerkungen  zu  dem  athiopischen  Pastor 
Hermae.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Ge- 
sellschaft. Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1861.  8°. 
Bd.  15,  p.  111-125.)  *OAA 

Schodde,  George  Henry.  Herma  nabi.  The 
Ethiopic  version  of  Pastor  Hermae  exam- 
ined... Leipzig:  Printed  by  F.  A.  Brock- 
haus,  1876.  1  p.l,  45(1)  p.  8°.         *  OEE 


Hadls  kidan.  Wangel  qedus  za'egzi'ena 
wamadhanlna  'Iyasus  Krestos.  Wamasahfetl- 
homu  lahawaryat  qedusan.  Zatasanaawl  mesla 
masahjet  qadamet  bcrana  zvamesla  masahfet 
sorya  wasr'e.  Tahatma  bahdlyota  Missy  on 
Katollk.  Asmara:  Tahatma  bamahetama  Ka- 
tollkaweyan,  1912  {\.  e.,  1921].  1  p.l.,  viii  p.,  1  1., 
290  p.,  1  1.,  198  p.,  1  1.   8°.  *  OEE 

Edited  by  Francesco  da  Bassano. 
Title  and  text  rubricated. 

The  date  1912  in  imprint  is  an  error.  The  correct 
date  is  1921.  The  Imprimatur  is  dated:  Asmarae,  8 
Dicembris,  1920. 


Gospels  and  Acts 

Evangelia  Sacra  Domini  Nostri  et  Salva- 
toris  Jesu  Christi  /Ethiopici  et  Amharice. 
Basileae:  Impressit  C.  F.  Spittler  in  Officina 
Tvpographica  Chrischonse,  1874.  445,  445  d. 
12°.  *OEE 

Each  text,  printed  on  opposite  pages,  is  separately 

paged. 

Edited  by  Rev.  Johann  Ludwig  Krapf. 
Issued  by  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society 
at  the  special  request  of  the  Emperor  of  Abyssinia. 


Jude 

|   S.   Judae   Apostoli   epistolae  catholicae 
{'versio  Arabice  &  /Ethiopice,  in  Latinatem 
translata,  et  punctis  vocabilus  animata,  ad- 


Mashafa  To  mar 

Mazhafa  tomar.  Das  aethiopische  Brief- 
buch  nach  drei  Handschriften,  herausgege- 
ben  und  iibersetzt  von  F.  Praetorius.  Leio- 
zig:  F.  A.  Brockhaus,  1869.  31  p.  8°.  *  OEE 

Mas'h'afa  T'omar  (Livre  de  l'epitre). 
Paris:  Librairie  de  l'Art  independant,  1893. 
2  p.l.,  20  p.  12°.  (Les  apocryphes  ethiopiens 
traduits  en  frangais  par  Rene  Basset,  n.) 

*OEE  (Bible) 

Beke,  Charles  Tilstone.  On  the  Mats'hafa 
tomar:  an  account  of  a  letter  which  is  said 
to  have  descended  from  Heaven  to  St. 
Athanasius.  (The  British  weekly.  London, 
1848.  8°.  v.  38,  p.  311-325.)  ZPD 

With  an  English  translation  of  Ewald's  German 
version. 

Btttner,  Maximilian.  Der  vom  Himmel 
gefallene  Brief  Christi  in  seinen  morgen- 
landischen  Versionen  und  Rezensionen. 
rWien:  A.  Holder,  1906.,  240  p.,  8  pi.  f°. 
(Kaiserliche  Akademie  der  Wissenschafteii 
in  Wien.  Denkschriften :  Philosophisch- 
historische  Klasse.  Bd.  51,  Abh.  1.)     *  EF 

Athiopisch  (Einleitung),  p.  216-230.  Text  and 
translation  in  parallel  columns,  p.  222-230.  PI.  VIII 
represents  part  of  Ethiopic  text. 

Trumpp,  Ernst.  [Kritische  Bemerkungen] 
zum  Briefbuch.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische 
Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1880.  8°. 
Bd.  34,  p.  241-246.)  *  OAA 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


47 


Apocryphal  Literature 


Apocrypha  de  B.  Maria  Virgine,  edidit 
[interpretatus  est]  M.  Chaine.  Romae:  Ex- 
cudebat  Karolus  de  Luigi,  1909.  2  p.l.,  80  p., 
2  1.,  68  p.  8°.  (Corpus  scriptorum  Christian- 
orum  Orientalium.  Scriptores  Aethiopici. 
Series  prima,  tomus  vn.)  *  OEE 

Ethiopic  text  and  Latin  translation. 

I.  The  Liber  nativitatis  Mariae  is  an  Ethiopic 
version  of  the  Protoevangelium  Iacobi,  of  which 
versions  in  Latin,  Greek,  and  Syriac  have  been  pub- 
lished, ii.  Versions  of  the  Liber  de  transitu  Virginis 
Mariae  have  been  also  published  in  Greek,  Syriac,  and 
Arabic,  in.  The  Apocalypsis  seu  visio  Mariae  Vir- 
ginis "e  graeca  lingua  in  arabicara  translatus  est,  et 
ex  arabica  in  aethiopicam." 

Ba-Hayla-Mika'el: 

Le  Livre  des  mysteres  du  ciel  et  de  la 
terre.  Texte  ethiopien  publie  et  traduit  par 
J.  Perruchon  avec  le  concours  de  I.  Guidi. 
[Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.,  1903.]  xii,  97  p. 
4°.  (Patrologia  Orientalis.  tome  1,  fasc.  1.) 

f*OAC 

With  "introduction"  by  I.  Guidi,  and  "Note  ad- 
ditionnelle"  by  F.  Nau. 

This  work  originally  mistaken  for  the  long  lost 
Book  of  Enoch,  exists  in  a  single  manuscript  in  the 
Bibliotheque  Nationale.  Zotenberg  assigns  the  ms. 
to  the  sixteenth  century  but  Guidi  thinks  it  belongs 
rather  to  the  fifteenth.  The  ms.  was  acquired  some- 
time before  1633  by  Nicolas  Claude  Fabri,  seigneur 
de  Peiresc  (1580-1637),  probably  from  a  French 
adventurer  named  Vermellius,  a  native  of  Montpellier, 
who  had  attained  the  position  of  "general  en  chef" 
of  the  Abyssinian  army.  Deceived  by  a  passage  in 
Gassendi's  life  of  Peiresc  (Viri  illustris  Nicolai  Claudii 
Fabricii  de  Peiresc ..  .vita  in  his  Opera,  v.  5,  p.  273), 
which  mentioned  the  manuscript  under  the  title  of 
Mazhapha  Einok  or  "Prophetie  d'Enoch,"  Ludolf 
thought  he  had  discovered  the  apocryphal  work  known 
as  the  Book  of  Enoch,  and  on  discovering  his  mistake 
vented  his  ill  humor  on  the  manuscript  by  describing 
its  contents  as  "Verum  tarn  crassas  ac  putidas  fabulas 
continet,  ut  vix  legere  sustinuerim."  (Commentarius, 
lib.  iii.  c.  4,  p.  347.) 

Reviewed  in  Litcrarische  Rundschau  fur  das  katho- 
lische  Deutschland  (by  Anton  Baumstark),  Freiburg 
im  Breisgau,  1906,  Jahrg.  32,  col.  389-390,  j*DF. 

Les  Trois  derniers  traites  du  Livre  des 
mysteres  du  ciel  et  de  la  terre ;  texte  ethio- 
pien publie  et  traduit  par  S.  Grebaut.  [Paris: 
Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.,  1910.]  2  p.l.,  (1)104- 
206  p.  4°.  (Patrologia  Orientalis.  tome  vi, 
fasc.  3,  2  p.l.,  p.  (1)362-464.)  f*  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Oriens  Christianus  (by  Carl  Bezold), 
Leipzig,  1911,  N.  S.,  Bd.  1,  p.  343-345,  fZNB ;  Revue 
de  I 'Orient  chretien  (by  Jean  Pressor),  Paris,  1911, 
serie  2,  tome  6,  p.  333-335,  *OAA. 

Baumstark,  Anton.  Zitate  und  Spuren  der 
Petrusapokalypse  in  einem  athiopischen 
Texte.  (Oriens  Christianus.  Rom,  1904.  4°. 
Jahrg.  4,  p.  398-405.)  f  ZNB 

Bezold,  Carl.  Das  arabisch-athiopische 
Testamentum  Adami.  (In:  Orientalische 
Studien  Theodor  Noldeke  zum  siebzigsten 
Geburtstag.  . .  Herausgegeben  von  Carl  Be- 
zold. Gieszen:  A.  Topelmann,  1906.  8°.  Bd. 
2,  p.  893-912.)  *  OAC 

Introductory  notes  and  texts. 


Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson  Wal- 
lis.  One  hundred  &  ten  miracles  of  Our 
Lady  Mary;  translated  from  Ethiopic  manu- 
scripts for  the  most  part  in  the  British 
Museum,  with  extracts  from  some  ancient 
European  versions,  and  illustrations  from 
the  paintings  in  manuscripts  by  Ethiopian 
artists,  by  Sir  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge. . .  Lon- 
don: The  Medici  Society,  Ltd.,  1923.  lvii  (i) 
p.,  1  1.,  359  p.,  64  pi.  8°.  *OEE 

Original  imprint  covered  by  label:  London:  M. 
Hopkinson  and  Co.,  Ltd. 

Chaine,  Marius.  Le  cycle  de  la  Vierge 
dans  les  apocryphes  ethiopiens.  (Universite 
Saint-Joseph.  Melanges.  Beyrouth,  1906. 
4°.  tome  1,  p.  189-196.)  *  OAC 

L'epreuve  de  l'eau.  L'origine  du  culte  du  feu 
chez  les  Perses.  Assassinat  du  pretre  Zacharie  par 
le  roi  Herode.  Lettre  du  roi  Abgar  au  roi  Tibere. 
L'apocalypse  de  la  Vierge. 

  See  also  under  Apocrypha  de  B. 

Maria  Virgine. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  La  redazione  etio- 
pica  della  preghiera  della  Vergine  fra  i  Parti. 
(Reale  accademia  nazionale  dei  Lincei. 
Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali,  sto- 
riche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1896.  8°.  serie  5, 
v.  5,  p.  457-479.)  *  ER 

Introductory  notes,  text,  and  variant  readings. 

Cornill,  Carl  Heinrich.  See  under  Jacob 
bar  Theophilus. 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August. 
Bericht  iiber  das  athiopische  Buch  Clement- 
inischer  Schriften.  (Gottingische  gelehrte 
Anzeigen.  Nachrichten.  Gottingen  [1858]. 
16°.  1858,  p.  185-199,  201-215,  217-226.) 

See  also  under  Grebaut,  Sylvain.  *  EE 

Ewald,  Georg  Heinrich.  Ueber  den  Ur- 
sprung  des  S.  16-21  angezogenen  aethio- 
pischen  Christusbriefes.  (Deutsche  morgen- 
landische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leip- 
zig, 1847.  8°.  Bd.  1,  p.  337-338.)        *  OAA 

Fekkare  Iyasous.  Paris:  Librairie  de 
l'Art  independent,  1909.  2  p.l.,  28  p.  12°. 
(Les  Apocryphes  ethiopiens  traduits  en 
frangais  par  Rene  Basset,  xi.)  *  OEE 

An  "apocalyptic  work  prophesying  the  advent  of  a 
King  Theodore  who  was  to  bring  peace  and  blessing 
to  his  country." 

Reviewed  in  Revue  semitique  (by  J.  Halevy), 
Paris,  1909,  annee  17,  p.  484,  *OAA. 

Gadla  Adam: 

Der  Kampf  Adams  (gegen  die  Versuch- 
ungen  des  Satans),  oder:  Das  christliche 
Adambuch  des  Morgenlandes.  Aethio- 
pischer  Text,  verglichen  mit  dem  arabischen 
Originaltext,  herausgegeben  von  Ernst 
Trumpp.  xiii,  172  p.  4°.  (Koniglich  Baye- 
rische  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  Ab- 
handlungen :  Philosophisch-philologische 
Classe.  Miinchen,  1881.  Bd.  15,  Abtheilung 
3.)  *  EE 

From  ms.  in  the  British  Museum  compared  with 
an  Arabic  original  text  found  in  Munich. 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


48 

Apocryphal  Literature,  continued. 

The  Book  of  Adam  and  Eve,  also  called 
the  Conflict  of  Adam  and  Eve  with  Satan, 
a  book  of  the  early  Eastern  Church,  trans- 
lated from  the  Ethiopic,  with  notes  from 
the  Kufale,  Talmud,  Midrashim,  and  other 
eastern  works.  By  the  Rev.  S.  C.  Malan. 
London:  Williams  and  Norgate,  1882.  1 
p.l.,  viii,  255(1)  p.  8°.  *OEE 

Translated  from  Trumpp's  edition  of  the  Ethiopic. 
Reviewed  in  The  Academy,  London,  1883,  v.  24, 
p.  7. 

Das  Christliche  Adambuch  des  Morgen- 
landes.  Aus  dem  Athiopischen  mit  Bemer- 
kungen  iibersetzt  von  A.  Dillmann.  Got- 
tingen:  Verlag  der  Dieterischen  Buchhand- 
lung,  1853.  1  p.l.,  144  p.  8°.  *  OEE 

Ginsburg,  Louis.  Adam,  Book  of.  (Jewish 
encyclopaedia.  New  York,  1901.  4°.  v.  1, 
p.  179-180.)  *R-*PBZ 

Selikovitsch,  Goetzel.  La  division  mys- 
tique de  temps  chez  les  Semites  et  les  £gyp- 
tiens.  i.  Le  livre  royal  et  le  testament 
d'Adam.  (Athenee  oriental.  Actes.  Paris, 
1881.  8°.  annee  1881,  p.  188-198.)      *  OAA 

Gesprache  Jesu  mit  seinen  Jiingern  nach 
der  Auferstehung,  ein  katholisch-apostol- 
isches  Sendschreiben  des  2.  Jahrhunderts, 
nach  einem  koptischen  Papyrus  des  Institut 
de  la  Mission  archeol.  franchise  au  Caire, 
unter  Mitarbeit  von  Herrn  Pierre  Lacau.  . . 
herausgegeben,  iibersetzt  und  untersucht 
nebst  drei  Exkursen  von  Carl  Schmidt... 
Ubersetzung  des  athiopischen  Textes  von 
Dr.  Isaak  Wajnberg.  Leipzig:  J.  C.  Hin- 
richs,  1919.  vi  p.,  1  1.,  731,  83*  p.,  1  facsim. 
8°.  (Texte  und  Untersuchungen  zur  Ge- 
schichte  der  altchristlichen  Literatur.  Reihe 
3,  Bd.  13.)  ZE 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  A  propos  de  l'ange 
Temlakos.  (^thiops.  Paris,  1922.  8°.  an- 
nee 1,  p.  44-45.)  *OED 

  Litterature     ethiopienne  pseudo- 

clementine.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1907-21.  8°.)  *  OAA 

Serie  2,  tome  2,  p.  139-151:  [An  outline  of  con- 
tents of  ms.  d'Abbadie,  no.  51,  parts  3  and  4]. 

Serie  2,  tome  2,  p.  285-297,  380-392;  tome  3, 
p.  166-180,  314-320:  Texte  [et]  traduction  du  Mys- 
tere  du  jugement  des  pecheurs. 

Le  Mystere  du  jugement  des  pecheurs.  [It  is  di- 
vided into  five  principal  parts:]  (1)  Exhortation  de 
Pierre  a  ses  freres  et  enumeration  des  attributs  du 
Seigneur;  (2)  Enseignement  de  Pierre  a  son  fils 
Clement;  (3)  Avis  et  revelations  de  Notre-Seigneur 
a  Pierre;  (4)  Recit  de  la  chute  originelle;  explication 
de  la  maniere  dont  le  Seigneur  a  remedie  aux  conse- 
quences funestes  de  la  chute;  expose  de  la  miseri- 
corde  de  Dieu  envers  l'homme  et  de  la  grandeur 
de  ses  ceuvres;  (5)  Abraham,  Melchisedec  et  le  Christ. 

Serie  2,  tome  5,  p.  198r214,  307-323,  425-439: 
Texte  et  traduction  du  traite:  "La  Seconde  venue 
du  Christ  et  la  resurrection  des  morts." 

"Cet  apocryphe  est  une  revelation  faite  par 
Jesus  a  Pierre  et  transmise  par  Pierre  a  Clement, 


sur  les  evenements  de  la  fin  des  temps,  les  supplices 
de  1'enfer  et  la  misericorde  du  Seigneur  pour  les 
hommes. 

"Bien  qu'ici,  comme  du  reste  en  tout  livre  oriental, 
le  divers  sujets  traites  ne  soient  pas  exposes  avec 
beaucoup  d'ordre,  nous  pouvons  diviser  l'apocryphe 
en  six  parties  principales:  (1)  Le  venue  du  Christ, 
la  fin  du  monde  et  le  jugement  general;  (2)  Les 
supplices  endures  par  les  pecheurs;  (3)  Le  ciel, 
demeure  des  bienheureux;  (4)  Le  but  de  la  creation 
des  etres;  (5)  La  misericorde  du  Seigneur  envers 
les  hommes;  (6)  Ordonnances  disciplinaires  et  li- 
turgiques  a  propos  des  principales  fetes  chretiennes. 

Serie  2,  tome  6,  p.  72-84,  167-175,  225-233;  tome 
7,  p.  16-31,  133-144,  244-252,  337-346;  tome  8, 
p.  69-78;  tome  9,  p.  324-330;  tome  10,  p.  33-37; 
serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  246-252;  tome  2,  p.  22-28,  113- 
118,  395-400:  Traduction  du  Qalementos.    Livre  i. 

in.  Traduction  du  Qalementos.  ("Le  Qalementos 
apparait  comme  une  compilation  de  documents  anciens, 
tels  que  les  Recognitions,  la  Caverne  des  Tresors,  le 
Testament  d'Adam,  et  peut-etre  V  Apocalypse  de 
Pierre,  qui  auraient  ete  fondus  ensemble  par  un 
redacteur  anonyme.  D'apres  Dillmann,  l'original  arabe 
serait  1'ceuvre  d'un  chretien,  habitant  l'Egypte  et 
ecrivant  de  750  a  760.  La  version  ethiopienne  aurait 
ete  faite  plus  tard  directement  sur  cet  original.") 

Livre  premier.  L'ancien  testament  depuis  la  cre- 
ation jusq'a  Jpsaphat.  Chapitre  i,  Origine  et  circon- 
stances  des  revelations  de  saint  Pierre  a  saint  Cle- 
ment,  ii,  La  creation,   iii,  Creation  d'Adam  et  d'Eve. 

iv,  Tentation  et  chute  d'Adam  et  d'Eve.  v,  La  Caverne 
des  Tresors.  vi,  Les  enfants  d'Adam  et  d'Eve.  vii, 
Instructions  d'Adam  a  Seth  avant  sa  mort.  viii, 
Mort  d'Adam.  ix,  Seth.  x,  Henos,  Qaynan  et  Malal'el. 
xi,  Union  des  enfants  de  Seth  avec  les  enfants  de 
Cain.  ^  xii,  Yared  et  Henoch.  _  xiii,  Noe  et  la  con- 
struction de  l'arche.  xiv,  Dernieres  recommendations 
et  mort  de  Matousela.  xv,  Depart  de  Noe  et  des 
siens  de  la  Caverne  des  Tresors.  xvi,  Le  Deluge, 
xvii,  Malediction  de  Cham,  xviii,  Recommendations 
et  mort  de  Noe.  xix,  Sem  emmene  Melchisedec  au 
Golgotha.  _  xx,  Diversite  des  langues  et  des  peuples. 
xxi,  Idolatrie  et  debauche.  xxii,  Abraham  et  Mel- 
chisedec. xxiii,  Isaac  et  Jacob,  xxiv,  Les  juges  et 
les  premiers  rois. 

Livre  deuxieme.  Premiere  revelation  de  Pierre  a 
Clement.  Chapitre  premier,  Les  mysteres  de  la 
Divinite  et  de  la  Trinite.  ii,  La  creation,  iii,  La 
creation  du  paradis.    iv,  Gloire  et  chute  de  Satan. 

v,  Les  Archanges.  vi,  La  creation  et  la  preverication 
d'Adam.  vii,  Les  Anges.  viii,  La  description  du 
paradis.   ix,  La  chretiente. 

Livre  troisieme.  Prodiges  montres  a  Pierre  par 
le  Seigneur,  i.  Caractere  esoterique  des  revelations 
de  Notre-Seigneur  a  Pierre,  n.  De  quelques  impure- 
tes.  in.  Le  Seigneur  et  sa  Loi.  iv.  L'admission  aux 
Ordres  sacres.  v.  Fondement,  discipline  et  saintete 
de  l'Eglise.  vii.  Necessite  de  l'observation  des  regies 
de  l'Eglise.  viii.  L'Eglise  et  la  vie  chretienne.  ix.  Les 
enseignements  de  Notre-Seigneur  et  l'Eglise.  x.  Le 
ministere  ecclesiastique. 

no.  vi  lacking  in  Library  set. 

 Les  miracles  de  l'archange  Ragou'el. 

(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913. 
8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  111-120,  277-282.) 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation.  *OAA 
From  ms.  no.  5  of  M.  E.  Delorme. 

  La   Pentecote   et  la  mission  des 

apotres.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1918/19-1920/21.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  204- 
213;  tome  2,  p.  57-64.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

"Le  texte  a  ete  etabli  d'apres  les  mss.  A  (d'Abbadie, 
no.  168)  et  B  (d'Abbadie,  no.  226).  Les  notes  con- 
tiennent  la  reproduction  de  toutes  les  variantes." 

  Les  relations  entre  Abgar  et  Jesus. 

(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1918/19. 
8°.  serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  190-203.)        *  OAA 

Translation  and  notes. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Apocryphal  Literature,  continued. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain,  continued. 

  Les  sept  cieux  et  les  sept  cercles  de 

la  terre.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1913.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  204-206.)  *  OAA 

"Le  note  suivante,  susceptible  d'eclairer  quelques 
passages  des  Apocalypses  ou  des  Apocryphes  de  la 
litterature  ethiopienne,  est  extraite  du  manuscrit  no. 
64  de  Paris,  classe  par  Zotenberg  parmi  les  Commen- 
taires  de  la  Bible." 

 Trois  appendices  aux  relations  entre 

Abgar  et  Jesus.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1918/19.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  253- 
260.)  *  OAA 

1.  Abgar  et  Jesus  d'apres  le  synaxaire  ethiopien. 
2.  La  mort  des  martyrs  d'Akmin.  3.  Les  martyrs 
d'Akmin  d'apres  le  synaxaire  ethiopien. 

Grohmann,  Adolf.  Reste  einer  neuen 
Rezension  der  Kindheitsgeschichte  Jesu  in 
den  ta'amra'Iyasus.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift  fur 
die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes.  Wien,  1914. 
8°.  Bd.  28,  p.  1-15.)  *OAA 

i.  Jesus  bildet  Vogel  aus  Lehm.  II.  Jesus  und 
der  Lehrer. 

Text  and  translation. 

Guerrier,  L.  Un  "Testament  de  notre- 
Seigneur  et  Sauveur  Jesus-Christ"  en  Ga- 
lilee. (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1907.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  2,  p.  1-8.)     *  OAA 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  La  leggenda  di  s.  Mattia 
a  Bartos.  (Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Gior- 
nale.  Roma,  1889.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  173-176.) 

*OAA 

 See  also  under  Ba-Hayla-Mika'el. 

Haffner,  August.  Eine  athiopische  Dar- 
stellung  der  Abgar-Legende.  (Orientalis- 
tische  Studien.  Fritz  Hommel  zum  sech- 
zigsten  Geburtstag.  Leipzig,  1918.  8°.  Bd. 
2,  p.  245-251.)  *  OAA 

  Eine   athiopische   Handschrift  der 

k.  k.  Hofbibliothek  in  Wien  zu  den  pseudo- 
epiphanischen  Werken.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift 
fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes.  Wien, 
1912.  8°.  Bd.  26,  p.  363-387.)  *  OAA 

Text,  translation,  and  notes. 

Das  Hexaemeron  des  Pseudo-Epiphan- 
ius.  Aethiopischer  Text  verglichen  mit  dem 
arabischen  Originaltext  und  deutscher  Ue- 
bersetzung  von  Ernst  Trumpp.  4  p.l.,  167- 
254  p.  (Koniglich  Bayerische  Akademie  der 
Wissenschaften.  Abhandlungen :  Philo- 
sophisch-philologische  Classe.  Miinchen, 
1882.  4°.  Bd.  16,  Abth.  2.)  *  EE 

Les  Legendes  de  S.  Tertag  et  de  S.  Sous- 
nyos.  Paris:  Librairie  de  l'Art  independant, 
1894.  2  p.l.,  42  p.  12°.  (Les  apocryphes 
ethiopiens  traduits  en  frangais  par  Rene 
Basset,  iv.)  *  OEE  (Bible) 

Histoire  du  roi  d'Armenie  Tertag,  p.  28-38.  Le- 
gende  de  S.  Sousnyos  et  de  Ouerzelya,  p.  38-42. 

Les  Miracles  de  Jesus;  texte  ethiopien 
publie  et  traduit  par  Sylvain  Grebaut.  Paris: 


49 

Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.  [1919.]  102  p.  4°. 
(Patrologia  Orientalis.  tome  12,  fasc.  4,  1 
p.l.,  (1)556-652  p.)  f*OAC 

  Fascicule  n.  Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et 

Cie.,  1920.  2  p.l.,  (1)104-176  p.  4°.  (Patro- 
logia Orientalis.  tome  14,  fasc.  5,  2  p.l., 
(1)772-844  p.)  f*OAC 

  Fascicule  in.  Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et 

Cie.,  1923.  2  p.l.,  (1)182-251(1)  p.  4°.  (Pa- 
trologia Orientalis.  tome  17,  fasc.  4,  2  p.l., 
(1)788-857(1)  p.)  f*OAC 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Apergu  sur  les  miracles 
de  notre-Seigneur.  (Revue  de  l'Orient 
chretien.  Paris,  1911.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  6, 
p.  255-265,  356-367.)  *  OAA 

No  more  published. 

Nau,  Frangois  Nicolas.  See  under  Ba- 
Hayla-Mika'el. 

Perruchon,  Jules.  See  under  Ba-Hayla- 
Mika'el. 

La  Sagesse  de  Sibylle.  Paris:  Biblio- 
theque  de  la  Haute  Science,  1900.  2  p.l., 
87  p.  12°.  (Les  Apocryphes  ethiopiens  tra- 
duits en   francais   par   Rene   Basset,  x.) 

*OEE 

"La  version  ethiopienne,  qui  est  inedite  et  traduite 
ici  pour  la  premiere  fois,  ^st  d'assez  basse  epoque  et 
derive  d'un  original  arabe  different  des  deux  re- 
censions qui  j'ai  pu  consulter,  mais  qui  se  rapproche 
cepedant  de  celle  que  je  designe  par  arabe."  —  p.  6. 

Appendix  i  contains  translation  of  Arabic  version 
from  ms.  in  Bibliotheque  Nationale  (fds.  arabe,  n. 
70).  Appendix  II  contains  translation  of  another 
Arabic  version  from  ms.  in  the  same  library  (fds. 
arabe,  n.  281).  Appendix  nr.  Sibylle  de  Tibur, 
from  Sackur,  Sibyllinische  Texte  und  Forschungen, 
p.  177-187.  Appendix  iv.  Ibn  el  Ouardi,  La  perle  des 
merveilles. 

Reviewed  in  Byzantinische  Zeitschrift  (by  F. 
Kampers),  Leipzig,  1908,  Bd.  17,  p.  505,  BVA. 

Schleifer,  J.  Die  Erzahlung  der  Sibylle, 
ein  Apokryph  nach  den  karschunischen, 
arabischen,  und  athiopischen  Handschriften 
zu  London,  Oxford,  Paris  und  Rom. 
(Kaiserliche  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften. 
Denkschriften :  Philosophisch-historische 
Klasse.  Wien,  1910.  4°.  Bd.  53,  Abhand- 
lung  1.  80  p.)  *  EF 

Le  Testament  en  Galilee  de  Notre-Seig- 
neur Jesus-Christ.  Texte  ethiopien,  edite  et 
traduit  en  frangais  par  L.  Guerrier,  avec  le 
concours  de  S.  Grebaut.  Paris:  Firmin- 
Didot  et  Cie.  [1912.]  1  p.l.,  (1)144-236  p.  4°. 
(Patrologia  Orientalis.  tome  9,  fasc.  3.) 

t*OAC 

Testamentum  Adami.  (In:  The  Book  of 
the  Cave  of  Treasures...  Translated  from 
the  Syriac  text  of  the  British  Museum  MS. 
Add.  25875,  by  Sir  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge. 
London,  1927.  8°.  p.  242-248.)         *  ODM 

Translation  of  the  Ethiopic  version. 

Trumpp,  Ernst.  See  under  Gadla  Adam; 
and  Hexaemeron. 


50 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Theology  and  Biblical  Commentary 


The  Apostolic  Canons,  translated  from 
the  Ethiopic  by  George  H.  Schodde.  (Jour- 
nal of  Biblical  literature  and  exegesis.  Bos- 
ton, 1885.  8°.  [V.  8,]  p.  61-72.)  *  DA 

Translated  from  the  Canones  apostolorum  Aethi- 
opice  published  by  Winand  Fell,  Lipsiae,  1871. 

Barad'cta  wahiruta  'amlakna  dersan  ba' 
enta  ledatu  laegzi'ana  Iyasus  Krestos; 
Homilia  yEthiopica  de  nativitate  Domini 
Nostri  Jesu  Christi,  Latino  sermone  ad 
verbum  donata;  nunc  primum  cum  aliis  24 
homiliis,  &  perpaucis  quibusdam  mss. 
Aethiopicis  ex  oriente  asportata,  &  speci- 
minis  loco  in  lucem  edita  a  M.  Theodoro 
Petraeo. . .  Lugd.  Batavorum:  impensis  auc- 
toris,  &  typis  Nisselianis,  cio  IOC  lx.  1  p.l., 
12  p.  4°.  *  KB 

Latin  interlinear  translation. 

Bound  with:  Bible.   Old  Testament.  Malachi. 

Baumstark,  Anton.  Der  athiopische 
Bibelkanon.  Ein  Exemplar  desselben  mit 
einleitenden  Bemerkungen  vorgeligt.  (Ori- 
ens  Christianus.  Rom,  1905.  4°.  Jahrg.  5, 
p.  162-173.)  f  ZNB 

Bellarmino,  Roberto  Francesco  Romolo, 
cardinal.  Dottrina  Cristiana  composta  dall' 
Emo,  e  Rmo  Cardinale  Roberto  Bellarmino. 
Tradotta  prima  dalla  lingua  italiana  nell' 
araba,  ed  ora  per  ordine  della  Sag.  Congr. 
di  Propaganda  Fide  tradotta,  e  stampata 
anche  in  lingua  etiopica.  Roma:  Nella  Stam- 
peria  della  Sag.  Congr.  di  Propaganda  Fide, 
mdcclxxxvi.  97  p.,  3  pi.  4°.  ZGR 

Cardinal  Bellarmino's  work  was  published  in  1582, 
and  was  translated  into  nearly  all  the  languages  of 
Europe. 

The  Ethiopic  translator  was  Tobia  Giorgio  Ge- 
bragzer  (?  Gabra  Egzi'abher),  bishop  of  Adulis  and 
vicar-apostolic  of  Ethiopia,  born  in  Abyssinia  and 
educated  at  the  College  of  Urbino  in  Rome.  For  some 
notices  of  him  see  Camillo  Beccari,  Notizia  e  saggi  di 
opere  e  docutnenti  inediti  riguardanti  la  storia  di 
Ethiopia,  Roma,  1903,  p.  185,  489,  495,  497,  f*0£F. 

Bezold,  Carl.   See  under  Jacob  of  Nisibis. 

Chaine,  Marius.  Le  livre  du  Coq.  ("Matz- 
hafa  Dorho.")  (Revue  semitique.  Paris, 
i905.  8°.  tome  13,  p.  276-281.)         *  OAA 

From  DAbbadie  ms.  11.   Text  and  translation. 

  Sermon  sur  la  penitence  attribue  a 

Saint  Cyrille  d'Alexandre.  Textes  traduits 
et  annotes.  (Universite  Saint-Joseph,  Bey- 
routh. Melanges.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  tome  6, 
p.  493-528.)  *  OAC 

Recit  du  Synaxaire  ethiopien,  p.  520-524. 

Cornill,  Carl  Heinrich.  Die  Monche  Max- 
imus  und  Dumatewos.  Nachrag  zu  xxx, 
pg.  454.  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Ge- 
sellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1880.  8°. 
Bd.  34,  p.  168-171.)  *OAA 

 See  also  under  Jacob  bar  Theophilus. 


Cyril,  bishop  of  Alexandria.  Cyrilli  de 
Melchisedec  homilia  prior  tet]  altera.  (In: 
C.  F.  A.  Dillmann,  Chrestomathia  Aethio- 
pica.  Lipsiae,  1866.  8°.  p.  88-98.)     *  OEE 

From  British  Museum  ms.  Or.  739. 

  Epistola  Cyrilli  ad  Toannem.  (In: 

C.  F.  A.  Dillmann,  Chrestomathia  Aethio- 
pica.  Lipsiae,  1866.  8°.  p.  72-76.)    *  OEE 

To  John,  bishop  of  Antioch. 

From  British  Museum  ms.  Or.  739. 

 See  also  under  Chaine,  Marius. 

Didascalia  Apostolorum.  The  Ethiopic 
didascalia;  or,  The  Ethiopic  version  of  the 
apostolical  constitutions,  received  in  the 
Church  of  Abyssinia.  With  an  English 
translation.  Edited  and  translated  by 
Thomas  Pell  Piatt...  London:  Published 
for  the  Oriental  Translation  Fund  of  Great 
Britain  and  Ireland,  1834.  xvi  p.,  1  1.,  131  p., 
10  1.   f°.  (Oriental  Translation  Fund.) 

t*  OAG 

  The  Ethiopic  Didascalia.   By  J.  M. 

Harden.  London:  Society  for  Promoting 
Christian  Knowledge,  1920.  xxiii,  204  p. 
12°.  (Translations  of  Christian  literature. 
Series  4.  Oriental  texts.)  *  OEC 

  La  Didascalie  ethiopienne  traduite 

en  frangais  [par]  J.  Frangon.  (Revue  de 
l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1911-14.  8°.  serie 
2,  tome  6,  p.  164-166,  266-270;  tome  7,  p. 
199-203,  286-293;  tome  9,  p.  183-187.) 

*OAA 

Ends  chap.  30  with  "a  suivre,"  but  no  more 
published. 

With  introductory  note  by  F.  Nau. 

This  translation,  intended  to  complete  the  trans- 
lation by  Piatt,  "est  faite  sur  le  manuscrit  de 
Londres  or.  799  qui  sera  designe  par  la  lettre  A: 
on  renverra  quelquefois  aussi  aux  mss.  or.  793  (B) 
et  d'Abbadie  79  (C)." 

"La  Didascalie  ethiopienne,  ne  provenant  d'aucun 
des  deux  textes  arabes  connus,  a  done  chance  —  sauf 
decouverte  —  de  provenir  du  grec  au  du  copte.  Nous 
opinions  pour  le  copte  a  cause  du  mot  ni-philoponos 
qui  a  ete  simplement  transcrit  dans  l'ethiopien  par 
mpilobands."  —  F.  Nau. 

See  also  Nau's  "Note  sur  le  prologue  de  la 
Didascalie  arabe  et  sur  quelques  apqeryphes^  arabes 
pseudo-Clementins"  in  Journal  asiatique,  serie  10, 
tome  17,  p.  319-323,  Paris,  1911,  *OAA. 

Esteves  Pereira,  Francisco  Maria.  Duas 
homilias  sobre  S.  Tome,  atribuidas  a  S. 
Joao  Crisostomo.  Estudo  de  critica  li- 
teraria  por  Francisco  Maria  Esteves  Pereira. 
(Academia  das  sciencias  de  Lisboa.  Boletim 
da  segunda  classe.  Coimbra,  1915.  8°.  v. 
8,  p.  151-182.)  *ES 

p.  166-170:  Homilia  primeira,  traducao  do  texto 
grego.  p.  170-176:  Homilia  segunda,  versao  etiopica. 
p.  177-182:  Homilia  segunda,  tradugao  da  versao 
etiopica. 

  Homilia  sobre  o  baptismo  de  N.  S. 

Jesus  Christo,  attribuida  a  S.  Joao  Chrysos- 
tomo.  (Academia  das  sciencias  de  Lisboa. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Theology  and  Biblical  Commentary,  cont'd. 

Boletim  de  segunda  classe.  Lisboa,  1910. 
8°.  v.  3,  p.  474-480.)  *  ES 

Translation,  p.  476-480. 

"A  elevagao  dos  pensamentos,  a  sequencia  _  dos 
raciocinios,  a  simplicidade  da  exposigao,  e  a  forma 
dialogada,  intensamente  dramatica,  da  homilia,  mos- 
tram  que  o  seu  auctor  possuia  cultura  intellectual 
muito  desenvolvida  e  qualidades  litterarias  pouco  vul- 
gares."  —  p.  476. 

  Homilia  sobre  o  baptismo  de  N.  S. 

Jesus  Christo,  attribuida  a  S.  Joao  Chrysos- 
tomo.  (Academia  das  sciencias  de  Lisboa. 
Boletim  da  segunda  classe.  Lisboa,  1911. 
8°.  v.  4,  p.  259-276.)  *  ES 

Ethiopic  text  of  two  homilies  and  translation  of 
the  second.  The  first  homily  is  translated  in  the 
preceding  entry. 

Text  from  British  Museum  ms.  Orient.  774  (6-7). 

  Homilia  sobre  as  vodas  de  Cana  de 

Galileia,  attribuida  a  S.  Joao  Chrysostomo. 
(Academia  das  sciencias  de  Lisboa.  Bole- 
tim da  segunda  classe.  Lisboa,  1911.  8°. 
v.  4,  p.  299-314.)  *ES 

Text  and  Portuguese  translation. 

 Homilias  de  S.  Joao  Chrysostomo  na 

litteratura  ethiopica.  (Academia  das  scien- 
cias de  Lisboa.  Boletim  da  segunda  classe. 
Lisboa,  1910.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  419-424.)      *  ES 

Notice  of  the  homilies  attributed  to  St.  John 
Chrysostom,  archbishop  of  Constantinople,  which  exist 
in  Ethiopic  literature. 

 See  also  under  Homilia  de  Proclo. 

Eusebius,  bishop  of  Heraclea.  Homilia 
Eusebii,  episcopi  Heracleae.  (In:  C.  F.  A. 
Dillmann,  Chrestomathia  Aethiopica.  Lip- 
siae,  1866.  8°.  p.  102-103.)  *  OEE 

From  British  Museum  ms.  Or.  739. 

 Traduction  de  la  version  ethiopienne 

d'une  homelie  d'Eusebe,  eveque  d'Heraclee 
[par  Sylvain  Grebaut].  (Revue  de  l'Orient 
chretien.  Paris,  1911.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  6, 
p.  424-425.)  *  OAA 

Translated  from  the  text  in  Dillmann's  Chresto- 
mathia Aeth'opica. 

Firmus,  bishop  of  (Cappadocian)  Caes- 
area.  Homilia  Firmi,  episcopi  Caesareae. 
(In:  C.  F.  A.  Dillmann,  Chrestomathia 
Aethiopica.  Lipsiae,  1866.  8°.  p.  106-107.) 

*OEE 

  Traduction  de  la  version  ethiopienne 

d'une  homelie  de  Firmus,  eveque  de  Cesaree 
[par]  Sylvain  Grebaut.  (Revue  de  l'Orient 
chretien.  Paris,  1910.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  5, 
p.  324-325.)  *OAA 

Translated  from  Dillmann's  text. 

Frangon,  J.  See  under  Didascalia  Aposto- 
lorum. 

Furlani,  Giuseppe.  Un  trattado  etiopico 
sulla  Trinita.  (Rivisti  degli  studi  orientali. 
Roma,  1925.  8°.  v.  10,  p.  48-57.)        *  OAA 

Text  and  translation.  From  ms.  in  the  British 
Museum. 


51 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Exhortations  aux  an- 
achoretes  d'apres  le  ms.  ethiopien  no.  3  de 
M.  £.  Delorme.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chre- 
tien. Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  317- 
325.)  *  OAA 

  Fragment    ascetique.    (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1914.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  9,  p.  443-445.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation.  From  ms.  no.  3  of  M.  fi. 
Delorme. 

  Histoire   de   l'apostasie   du  diacre 

Leonce  et  de  la  mort  du  juif  Isaac.  (Revue 
de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie 
2,  tome  8,  p.  101-104.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

  Le  mauvaise  passion  de  la  colere 

selon  fivagrius.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  213-215.) 

*OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

"Le  traite  d'fevagrius  sur  les  huit  mauvaises  pas- 
sions est  renferme  dans  le  ms.  ethiopien  no.  3  de  M.  £. 
Delorme.  La  presente  edition  de  la  sixieme  passion 
(la  colere)  permettra  de  comparer  le  texte  de  notre 
ms.  a  celui  des  mss.  de  Paris,  de  Londres  et  de 
Tubingue." 

  Notice  sur  Matthieu  l'fivangeliste 

d'apres  le  ms.  ethiopien  no.  3  de  M.  £. 
Delorme.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  312-314.) 

*OAA 

"La  Notice.  .  .forme  la  fin  de  l'appendice  ajoute  a 
la  Dissertation  sur  l'harmonie  des  paroles  des  quatre 
£vangiles." 

  La  priere  de  Langinos.  (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1910.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  5,  p.  42-52.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation  of  ms.  Abbadie  31. 

p.  51-52:  Appendice:  Langinos  d'apres  le  Synaxaire 
ethiopien  (traduction). 

This  is  "un  document  monophysite  curieux,  qui, 
malgre  sa  brevite,  montre  avec  quelle  opiniatrete  les 
moines,  gagnes  a  la  foi  jacobite,  ont  rejete  VEpistola 
dogmatica  ad  Flavianum  du  pape  Leon  ler  (tomar 
Icydn). 

"Ce  morceau  se  distingue  par  ses  qualites  litteraires: 
aucun  hors-d'oeuvre  n'en  brise  la  rigoureuse  unite;  le 
caractere  d'Abba  Langinos,  fortement  mis  en  relief, 
domine  tout  le  recit;  la  forme,  parfois  recherchee,  est 
presque  elegante." 

  Sentences    ascetiques.    (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris.  1913-1915/17.  8°. 
serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  423-427;  tome  10,  p.  207- 
209;  serie  3,  tome  2,  p.  443-447.)        *  OAA 

  Sentences   d'fivagrius.    (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1915/17-1920/21. 
8°.  serie  2.  tome  10,  p.  211-214;  serie  3,  tome 
2,  p.  206-211.)  *OAA 

In  the  Delorme  ms.  3  these  follow  the  Traite 
d'Evagrius  sur  les  huit  mauvaises  passions. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Der  athiopische  "Sen- 
ados."  (Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesell- 
schaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1901.  8°.  Bd. 
55,  p.  495-502.)  *  OAA 

Harden,  John  Mason.  See  under  Didas- 
calia Apostolorum. 


52 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Theology  and  Biblical  Commentary,  cont'd. 

Homilia  de  Proclo,  bispo  de  Cyzico, 
Acerca  de  Incarnagoao  de  nosso  Senhos 
Jesus  Christo.  Versao  ethiopica  publicada 
por  F.  M.  Esteves  Pereira.  (International 
Congress  of  Orientalists,  14th,  Alger,  1905. 
Actes.  Paris,  1907.  8°.  section  2,  p.  199- 
218.)  *  OAA 

Introduction,  text,  and  Latin  translation. 

Horner,  G.    See  under  Statutes  of  the 

Apostles. 

Jacob,  of  Nisibis.  Jacobi,  episcopi  Nisi- 
beni,  homilia  de  adventu  regis  Persarum 
adversus  urbem  Nisibis  edidit  Franciscus 
Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  (In:  Orientalische 
Studien  Theodor  Noldeke  zum  siebzigsten 
Geburtstag. . .  Herausgegeben  von  Carl  Be- 
zold.  Gieszen:  A.  Topelmann,  1906.  8°. 
Bd.  2,  p.  877-892.)  *  OAC 

Ethiopic  text  only. 

Jacob  bar  Theophilus,  surnamed  Burde' 
ana.  Das  Glaubensbekenntniss  des  Jacob 
Baradaeus  in  athiopischer  Uebersetzung. 
Untersucht  von  Carl  Heinrich  Cornill. 
(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1876.  8°.  Bd.  30,  p. 
417-466.)  *OAA 

Text,  translation,  and  notes. 

This  Jacob  was  a  great  stickler  for  the  Monophysite 
doctrine,  founder  of  the  Jacobite  Church  in  Asia, 
and  the  person  from  whom  the  Eastern  Jacobites  took 
their  name.  The  confession  also  exists  in  an  Arabic 
translation,  printed  in  Kleyn's  Jacobus  Baradaeus  de 
stichter  der  Syrische  Monophysietische  kerk,  1882, 
p.  121-139,  *ODR. 

 The  confession  of  Jacob  Baradaeus. 

Translated  by  G.  H.  Schodde.  (Lutheran 
quarterly.  Gettysburg,  1882.  8°.  new  series, 
v.  12,  p.  502-514.)  *  DA 

With  introductory  notes  by  the  editor  on  p.  500- 
501. 

Translated  from  the  text  of  Cornill. 

Jaeger,  Carl.  Ueber  den  jungsten  bisher 
bekannten  hagiologischen  Ge'eztext.  (Die 
Ta'amer  des  Zar'a-Burtik.)  1  illus.  (Zeit- 
schrift fur  Assyriologie.  Strassburg,  1911. 
8°.  Bd.  25,  p.  227-274.)  *  OCL 

 Nebst  dem  aethiopischen  Text. 

Strassburg:  Karl  J.  Trubner,  1911.  1  p.l., 
227-274  p.,  1  1.  8°.  *  OEE 

John,  bishop  of  Antioch.  Epistola  Joannis 
Antiocheni  ad  Cyrillum  missa.  (In:  C.  F.  A. 
Dillmann,  Chrestomathia  Aethiopica.  Lip- 
siae,  1866.  8°.  p.  70-72.)  *  OEE 

To  Cyril,  bishop  of  Alexandria. 
From  British  Museum  ms.  Or.  739. 

 Traduction  de  la  version  ethiopienne 

d'une  lettre  de  Jean  d'Antioche  a  Cyrille 
d'Alexandrie.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1910.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  215-217.) 

*OAA 

From  the  text  in  Dillmann's  Chrestomathia  Aethio- 
pica. 


John  Chrysostom,  Saint.  Oratio  eucharis- 
tica  Joannis  Chrysostomi.  (In:  C.  F.  A. 
Dillmann,  Chrestomathia  Aethiopica.  Lip- 
siae,  1866.  8°.  p.  51-56.)  *  OEE 

From  ms.  Bodleian  xvii. 

See  also  under  Esteves  Pereira. 

Joseph.  Sargis  d'  Aberga  (controverse 
judeo-chretienne).  Premiere  assemblee. 
Texte  ethiopien  edite  et  traduit  par  S.  Gre- 
baut  avec  le  concours  de  I.  Guidi.  Paris: 
Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.,  1909.  97  p.  4°.  (Pa- 
trologia  Orientalis.  tome  3,  fasc.  4,  p.  547— 
643.)  *  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Rivista  degli  studi  orientals  (by 
I[gnazio]  G[uidi]),  Roma,  1910,  v.  3,  p.  615-616, 
*OAA. 

  Sargis     d'Aberga  (controverse 

judeo-chretienne)  (fin).  Texte  ethiopien 
publie  et  traduit  par  Sylvain  Grebaut.  Paris: 
Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.,  1917.  101-209  p.  4°. 
(Patrologia  Orientalis.  tome  13,  fasc.  1,  p. 
1-109.)  *  OAC 

Assemblee  2-9. 

This  work  gives  an  account  of  what  happened  to 
the  Jews  in  the  time  of  the  emperor  Haraqal  (Her- 
aclius,  c.  575-641).  The  emperor  made  one  named 
Sargis  of  Aberga,  "a  man  violent  and  passionate," 
governor  of  two  provinces,  Afragya  and  Tartagya 
(?  Africa  and  Carthage),  with  orders  to  baptize  all 
the  Jews  within  his  jurisdiction  who  had  been  con- 
verted to  the  Lord.  Many  Jews  were  forced  to  accept 
baptism  against  their  will,  and  one  of  those  so 
coerced,  named  Joseph,  wrote  this  account.  Another 
Jew,  named  Jacob,  who  had  been  converted  to  Chris- 
tianity, later  explains,  with  the  conviction  of  a 
neophyte,  the  truths  of  the  Christian  religion  and 
the  errors  of  his  fellow  Jews.  M.  Grebaut,  the  editor, 
thinks  the  work  may  have  been  written  for  the  benefit 
of  the  Falashas  or  so-called  Jews  of  Abyssinia. 

Nau,  Frangois  Nicolas.  Note  sur  le  texte 
grec  original  du  Sargis  d'Aberga  ethiopien. 
(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1910. 
8°.  serie  2,  tome  5,  p.  325-326.)  *  OAA 

The  text  of  the  Greek  original  is  in  ms.  Coislin 
299,  fol.  1-69  (11th  century). 

Juvenalius,  bishop  of  Jerusalem.  Homilia 
Juvenalis,  Hierosolymitani.  (In:  C.  F.  A. 
Dillmann,  Chrestomathia  Aethiopica.  Lip- 
siae,  1866.  8°.  p.  100-102.)  *  OEE 

 Traduction  de  la  version  ethiopienne 

d'une  homelie  de  Juvenal,  eveque  de  Jerusa- 
lem. (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1910.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  5,  p.  440-441.)  *  OAA 

Translated  from  the  text  in  Dillmann's  Chresto- 
mathia Aethiopica. 

L'Omilia  di  Yohannes,  vescovo  d'Aksum, 
in  onore  di  Garima,  del  dott.  Carlo  Conti 
Rossini.  (International  Congress  of  Ori- 
entalists, 11th,  Paris,  1897.  Actes.  Paris, 
1898.  4°.  section  4,  p.  139-177.)         *  OAA 

Text,  with  introduction,  notes  '  and  "un  breve 
compendio  della  narrazione  contenuta  nell'  omilia" 
(p.  147-149). 

Piatt,  Thomas  Pell.  See  under  Didascalia 
Apostolorum. 

Schleifer,  J.  Die  Weisheit  der  Sibylle. 
Ein  kritischer  Beitrag.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


53 


Theology  and  Biblical  Commentary,  cont'd. 

fur  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes.  Wien, 
1910.  8°.  Bd.  24,  p.  33-50.)  *  OAA 

Die  iithiopische  Version,  p.  34-43. 

Schodde,  George  Henry.  See  under 
Apostolic  Canons;  and  Jacob  bar  Theo- 
philus. 

Severianus  of  Gabala.  Homilia  Severiani 
Gabalorum.  (In:  C.  F.  A.  Dillmann,  Chres- 
tomathia  Aethiopica.  Lipsiae,  1866.  8°.  p. 
77-88.)  *  OEE 

From  British  Museum  ms.  Or.  739. 

Severus  of  Synnada  in  Phrygia.  Homilia 
Severi,  episcopi  Synnadorum.  (In:  C.  F.  A. 
Dillmann,  Chrestomathia  Aethiopica.  Lip- 
siae, 1866.  8°.  p.  99-100.)  *  OEE 

From  British  Museum  ms.  Or.  739. 

The  Statutes  of  the  Apostles  or  Canones 
ecclesiastici,  edited  with  translation  and  col- 
lation from  Ethiopic  and  Arabic  mss.;  also 
a  translation  of  the  Saidic  and  collation  of 
the  Bohairic  versions;  and  Saidic  fragments, 


by  Rev.  G.  Horner.  London:  Williams  & 
Norgate,  1904.  xxxix,  480  p.  8°.  ZKBF 

Ethiopic  text,  p.  1-87;  translation  of  the  Ethiopic 
text,  p.  127-232;  collation  of  the  Ethiopic,  p.  365-420. 

Goltz,  Eduard  von  der.  Unbekennte  Frag- 
mente  altchristlicher  Gemeindeordnungen. 
Nach  G.  Homers  englischer  Ausgabe  des 
athiopischen  Kirchenrechtsbuchs.  (Konig- 
lich  Preussische  Akademie  der  Wissen- 
schaften.  Sitzungsberichte.  Berlin,  1906. 
4°.  Jahrg.  1906,  p.  141-157.)  *  EF 

Theodotus  of  Ancyra.  Homilia  Theodoti, 
episcopi  Ancyrae.  (In:  C.  F.  A.  Dillmann, 
Chrestomathia  Aethiopica.  Lipsiae,  1866. 
8°.  p.  103-106.)  *OEE 

From  British  Museum  ms.  Or.  739. 

Zar'a  Ya'qob,  regnal  name  of  Qwastan- 
tinos,  i.e.  Constantine  i.  [Letter  to  the 
monks  of  the  Ethiopic  Convent  of  Jerusa- 
lem.] (In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad  suam  historiam 
Aethiopicam  commentarius.  Francofvrti  ad 
Moenum,  1691.  f°.  p.  301-304.)  *  KB 

Ethiopic  text  and  Latin  translation  in  parallel 
columns. 


Liturgies,  Rituals,  and  Prayers 


The  Anaphora  of  St.  Dioscorus  in  the 
Ethiopic  liturgy.  Translated  by  Samuel 
A.  B.  Mercer.  (Society  of  Oriental  Re- 
search. Journal.  Chicago,  1918.  8°.  v.  2, 
p.  83-86.)  *  OAA 

From  Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  194a-197b. 

The  text  of  the  Liturgia  S.  Dioscori  was  first 
printed  at  the  end  of  the  first  edition  of  Ludolf's 
Lexicon  Aethiopico-Latinum,  London,  1661,  from  a 
ms.  in  the  collection  of  Dr.  Edward  Pococke  (1604- 
1691),  now  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  with  Latin  trans- 
lation by  Wansleben.  The  Latin  text  is  also  re- 
printed in  Le  Brun's  Explication  de  la  Messe,  Liege, 
1778,  tome  4,  p.  564-568,  ZHF. 

The  Anaphora  of  the  Ethiopic  church 
ordinances.  (In:  F.  E.  Brightman,  Liturgies 
eastern  and  western,  being  the  texts  original 
or  translated  of  the  principal  liturgies  of 
the  church...  v.  1.  Eastern  liturgies.  Ox- 
ford: Clarendon  Press,  1896.  8°.  p.  189-193.) 

ZHH 

This  is  an  English  translation  of  the  Latin  version 
of  the  Liturgia  aethiopica  printed  by  Hammond  from 
Ludolf. 

Die  Anaphora  des  hi.  Jakobus,  des  Brud- 
ers  des  Herrn.  Nach  dem  MS.  aeth.  74  der 
Bibliotheque  nationale  zu  Paris  ediert  und 
iibersetzt  von  Sebastian  Euringer.  (Oriens 
Christianus.  Leipzig,  1915.  4°.  Neue  Serie, 
Bd.  4,  p.  1-23.)  f  ZNB 

^  Die  Anaphora  der  318  Rechtglaubigen. 
Athiopisch  und  deutsch  von  S.  Euringer. 
(Zeitschrift  fiir  Semitistik  und  verwandte 
Gebiete.  Leipzig,  1926.  8°.  Bd.  4,  p.  125- 
143,  266-299.)  *  OAA 

The  Anaphora  of  the  holy  and  blessed 
John.  Translated  by  Samuel  A.  B.  Mercer. 


(Society   of   Oriental   Research.  Journal. 
Gambier,  Ohio,  1922.   8°.   v.  6,  p.  21-33.) 
Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  132a-147b.  *  OAA 

The  Anaphora  of  Our  Lady  Mary.  Trans- 
lated by  Samuel  A.  B.  Mercer.  (Society  of 
Oriental  Research.  Journal.  Chicago,  1919. 
8°.  v.  3,  p.  51-64.)  *OAA 

Keddase  Maryam,  anaphora  of  Our  Lady  Mary 
Mother  of  God,  composed  by  Abba  Heryakos,  of  the 
city  of  Behensa. 

Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  114a-131b. 

The  Anaphora  of  Our  Lord  in  the  Ethio- 
pic liturgy.  (Society  of  Oriental  Research. 
Journal.  Chicago,  1917.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  24-40.) 

From  Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  107a-114a.         *  OAA 
This  is  the  first  time  this  anaphora  in  its  modern 
form  has  ever  been  translated.    A  facsimile  of  the 
original,  published  for  the  first  time,  is  on  p.  33-40. 

The  Anaphora  of  Saint  Epiphanius. 
Translated  by  Samuel  A.  B.  Mercer.  (Soci- 
ety of  Oriental  Research.  Journal.  Toronto, 
1925.  8°.  v.  9,  p.  110-117.)  *  OAA 

Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  183a-193b. 

The  Anaphora  of  St.  Gregory.  Translated 
by  Samuel  A.  B.  Mercer.  (Society  of  Ori- 
ental Research.  Journal.  Toronto,  1923.  8°. 
v.  7,  p.  27-34.)  *OAA 

St.  Gregory  the  brother  of  Basil. 
Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  157b-167b. 

The  Anaphora  of  Saint  Gregory  the  Ar- 
menian. Translated  by  Samuel  A.  B.  Mer- 
cer. (Society  of  Oriental  Research.  Journal. 
Toronto,  1925.  8°.  v.  9,  p.  8-12.)     *  OAA 

Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  248b-253b. 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


54 

Liturgies,  Rituals,  and  Prayers,  continued. 

The  Anaphora  of  Saint  James  of  Serug, 
translated  by  Samuel  A.  B.  Mercer.  (Society 
of  Oriental  Research.  Journal.  Toronto, 
1927.  8°.  v.  11,  p.  71-75.)  *  OAA 

From  Mercer  ms.  Eth.  4. 

The  Anaphora  of  St.  John  Chrysostom. 
Translated  by  Samuel  A.  B.  Mercer.  (So- 
ciety of  Oriental  Research.  Journal.  Chi- 
cago, 1920.  8°.  v.  4,  p.  35-42.)  *  OAA 

Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  148a-157b. 

Anaphora  of  the  three  hundred  and 
eighteen  orthodox.  Translated  by  Samuel 
A.  B.  Mercer.  (Society  of  Oriental  Re- 
search. Journal.  Toronto,  1924.  8°.  v.  8, 
p.  66-75.)  *  OAA 

The  anaphora  of  the  three  hundred  and  eighteen 
orthodox  which  they  recited  together,  in  the  Holy 
Ghost,  with  one  voice. 

Mercer  ms.  Eth.  3,  168a-183a. 

'Arganona  ueddase  nach  Handschriften 
in  Uppsala,  Berlin,  Tubingen,  und  Frank- 
furt a.  M.  Herausgegeben  von  P.  Leander. 
Leipzig:  W.  Drugulin,  1922.  177  p.  8°. 
(Goteborgs  hogskolas  Arsskrift.  Bd.  28,  no. 
3.)  NIMA  (Goteborg) 

Arnhard,  Carl  von.  Mashafa  temqat.  Li- 
turgie  zum  Tauf-Fest  der  aethiopischen 
Kirche...  Miinchen:  F.  Straub,  1886.  xvi, 
47(1)  p.  4°.  *OEH 

p.  39-42:  Die  Wasserweihe  nach  dem  Ritus  der 
Syrier. 

Reviewed  in  The  Independent,  New  York,  1889,  v. 
41,  p.  463,  *DA;  Literarisches  Zentralblatt  (by  F. 
H.),  Leipzig,  1886,  col.  1713-1714,  NAA;  Theo- 
logische  Literaturzeitung  (by  A.  Harnack),  Leipzig, 
1886,  col.  621-622,  ZEA;  Literaturblatt  fur  oriental- 
ische  Philologie  (by  F.  Praetorius),  Leipzig,  1887, 
Bd.  3,  Recensionen,  p.  28*-30*,  *OAB. 

  Die  Wasserweihe  nach  dem  Ritus 

der  athiopischen  Kirche.  (Deutsche  mor- 
genlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1887.  8°.   Bd.  41,  p.  403-414.) 

*OAA 

Reprint  of  the  ritual  as  published  in  Hydragiologia 
sive  de  Aqua  Benedicta,  by  Marcus  Antoninus  Mar- 
silius  Columna,  Rome,  1586. 

Ethiopic  with  Latin  translation. 

Benedictio  puerperae  secundum  usum 
^Ethiopum.  (In:  J.  P.  Migne,  Patrologiae 
cursus  completus;  series  Latina.  Paris, 
1853.  4°.  v.  138,  col.  927-930.)  ZEL 

Chaine,  Marius.  La  consecration  et 
l'epiclese  dans  le  missel  ethiopien.  (Bes- 
sarione.  Roma,  1910.  8°.  v.  14,  p.  181-209.) 

*OAA 

Ethiopic  text  with  Latin  translation  on  opposite 

page. 

  Le    rituel    ethiopien.  (Bessarione. 

Roma,  1913-14.  8°.  v.  29,  p.  38^71,  249- 
283,  420-451;  v.  30,  p.  12-41,  213-231.) 

*OAA 

1.  Rituel  du  bapteme.  2.  Rituel  de  la  confirmation 
et  du  mariage.  3.  Rituel  de  l'extreme  onction.  4. 
Rituel  (Liber  lampadis). 

Ethiopic  text  with  Latin  translation  on  opposite 
page. 


Chasoslov  efiopskoi  tzerkvi  Izdal  i  perevel 
na  osnavanii  neskolkikh  rukopisei  B.  Tura- 
yev.  4  p.l.,  viii,  175  p.  (Imperatorskaia 
Akademiya  Nauk.  Zapiski.  Po  Istoriko- 
Filologicheskomy  Otdeleniye.  S.-Peterburg, 
1897.  4°.  serie  8,  tome  1,  no.  7.)        *  QCB 

Title  also  in  Ethiopic  and  Greek. 
Ethiopic  imprint  reads:  Bahagar  za-qedus  Petros. 
1897  amat  'ameldatii  la-'Egzi'ana  lyasus  Krestos. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  II  convento  di 
Tsana  in  Abissinia  e  le  sue  laudi  alia  Ver- 
gine.  map.  (Reale  accademia  nazionale  dei 
Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  mo- 
rali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1910.  8°. 
v.  19,  p.  581-621.)  *  ER 

The  Praises  of  Mary  were  composed  in  the  con- 
vent of  Sana  in  the  reign  of  king  Na'od,  c.  1500 

A.  D. 

Euringer,  Sebastian.  See  under  Anaphora 
des  hi.  Jakobus;  Anaphora  der  318  Recht- 

glaubigen. 

Fries,  Karl  Henrik  August.  Weddase 
Marjam;  ein  athiopischer  Lobgesang  an 
Maria,  nach  mehreren  Handschriften  heraus- 
gegeben und  iibersetzt  von  Karl  Fries.  Up- 
sala:  Almqvist  &  Wiksell,  1892.  vi,  75  p., 
2  pi.  (facsimiles).  8°.  *  OAC  p.v.46 

Ethiopic  text  and  German  translation, 
p.  12-18:  Verzeichnis  yon  Weddase-Handschriftcn, 
die  in  Europe  vorhanden  sind. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  A  propos  de  l'anaphore 
de  saint  Athanase  d'apres  le  [ms.  ethiopien 
no.  3  de  M.  £.  Delorme].  (Revue  de  l'Orient 
chretien.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8, 
p.  100-101.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

  Le  benedicite  ethiopien.  (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  8,  p.  215-217.)  *  OAA 

From  Delorme  ms.  no.  3. 

"La  priere  suivante  est  analogue  a  celle  du  bene- 
dicite qui  se  dit  avant  le  repas." 

  Hymne  a  Jesus-Christ.  (Revue  de 

l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913.  8°.  serie  2, 
tome  8,  p.  310-312.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

"L'hymne  a  Jesus-Christ  que  nous  editons  se  trouve 
dans  le  ms.  Or.  624  du  British  Museum  et  sert  en 
quelque  sorte  de  preambule  a  l'ouvrage  intitule: 
Miracles  de  Jesus  (Ta'amra  lyasus)." 

  Salam  a  la  Vierge  Marie  d'apres  le 

ms.  ethiopien  no.  4  de  M.  £.  Delorme. 
(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1913. 
8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  121-123.)        *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

Grohmann,  Adolf.  Aethiopische  Marien- 
hymnen  herausgegeben,  iibersetzt  und  er- 
lautert  von  Adolf  Grohmann.  Leipzig:  B.  G. 
Teubner,  1919.  xii,  507  p.  f°.  (Sachsische 
Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  Abhand- 
lungen:  Philologisch-historische  Klasse. 
Bd.  33,  Nr.  4.)  *  EE 

Reviewed  in:  ABthiops  (by  S.  Grebaut),  Paris, 
1923,  annee  2,  p.  14-15,  *OED;  Le  Monde  oriental 
(by  K.  V.  Zettersteen),  Uppsala,  1921,  p.  266-268. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


55 


Liturgies,  Rituals,  and  Prayers,  continued. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Di  alcuni  inni  abissini. 
(Rivista  degli  studi  orientali.  Roma,  1907. 
8°.  v.  1,  p.  217-220.)  *OAA 

  Due  antiche  preghiere  nel  Ritual 

abissino  dei  Defonti.  (Oriens  Christianus. 
Leipzig,  1911.  4°.  Neue  Serie,  Bd.  1,  p. 
20-25.)  f  ZNB 

  "Qene"  o  inni  abissini.  (Reale  acca- 

demia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  sci- 
enze  morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma, 
1900.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  9,  p.  463-510.)        *  ER 

Reviewed  in  Imperatorskoye  Russkoye  Arkheo- 
logicheskoye  Obshchestvo,  Zapiski  Vostochnavo  Ot- 
deleniya  (by  B.  Turayev),  S.-Peterburg,  1901,  torn. 
13,  p.  0139-0145,  *QCB. 

  La  raccolta  di  Qene  nel  ms.  d'Ab- 

badie  145.  (Reale  accademia  nazionale  dei 
Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  mo- 
rali, storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1907. 
8°.  serie  5,  v.  16,  p.  529-569.)  *  ER 

Halevy,  Joseph.  See  under  Prieres;  and 
Nouvelles. 

Hymns  of  the  Abyssinian  Church,  and 
prayers.  Translated  by  the  Rev.  J.  M.  Rod- 
well.  (Journal  of  sacred  literature  and  bibli- 
cal record.  London,  1867.  8°.  new  series, 
v.  10,  p.  388-395.)  *  DA 

Contents:  (1)  Hymn  for  the  festival  of  Abba 
Salama,  or  Frumentius,  for  July  3.  (2)  The  hymn 
of  Gabra  Menfes  Keddus,  March  3.  (3)  Hymn  for 
priests  (the  third  hour).  (4)  Song  of  saints  (the 
sixth  hour).  (5)  Hymn  of  the  Kedasse  (sanctifica- 
tion)  of  the  House  (Body)  of  our  Lady  Mary.  (6) 
A  Sabbath-day  hymn.  (7)  The  hymn  of  "the  Light." 
(8)  The  vigil  of  St.  Peter's  day. 

Leander,  Pontus  Adalbert.  See  under 
'Arganona  ueddase. 

Liturgia  aethiopica,  in  aethiopum  consti- 
tutionibus  apostolicis  adservata  (e  Ludolphi 
Commentario  ad  historiam  Aethiopicam, 
pp.  324  seq.)  (In:  C.  E.  Hammond,  Litur- 
gies eastern  and  western...  Oxford:  Clar- 
endon Press,  1878.  12°.  p.  234-237.)  ZHH 

Liturgia  S.  Matthsei  Apostoli,  qva  ^Ethio- 
pes  utuntur.  (In:  J.  A.  Fabricius,  Codicis 
apocrvphi  Novi  Testamenti.  pars  tertia.  Ham- 
burgi;i719.  8°.  p.  211-252.)  *  YNZ 

See  also  under  Missa  Aethiopium,  below. 

The  Liturgy  of  the  Abyssinian  Jacobites 
commonly  called  the  Ethiopic  including  the 
anaphora  of  the  Apostles.  (In:  F.  E.  Bright- 
man,  Liturgies  eastern  and  western,  being 
the  texts  original  or  translated  of  the  prin- 
cipal liturgies  of  the  Church...  Oxford: 
Clarendon  Press,  1896.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  194- 
244.)  ZHH 

The  Liturgy  of  the  church  of  Ethiopia. . . 
translated  from  the  Ethiopick  language  into 
Latin  by  Renaudotius,  and  published  at 
Paris  1716.  vol.  1.  pag.  513.  (In:  A  Collec- 
tion of  the  principal  liturgies  used  by  the 


Christian  Church  in  the  celebration  of  the 
Holv  Eucharist,  [edited]  bv  Thomas  Brett. 
London:  Richard  King,  1720.  8°.  p.  81-90.) 

ZHFK 

The  1716  edition  of  Renaudot  is  not  in  The  New 
York  Public  Library,  but  the  Latin  text  of  the  above 
English  translation  is  in  v.  1,  p.  486-493  of  the 
Frankfort  edition  of  Renaudot. 

Mercer,  Samuel  Alfred  Browne.  The 
Ethiopic  liturgy:  its  sources,  development, 
and  present  form.  Milwaukee:  The  Young 
Churchman  Companv;  London:  A.  R.  Mow- 
bray &  Company,  #  1915.  xvi,  487  p.  12°. 
(Western  Theological  Seminary,  Chicago, 
111.  The  Hale  lectures.  Series  of  1914-15.) 

*  OEE 

Reviewed  in  Revue  de  I'Orient  chretien,  Paris, 
1915/17,  serie  2,  tome  10,  p.  Ill,  *OAA;  Zeitschrift 
der  Deutschen  morgenldndischen  Gesellschaft  (by  F. 
Praetorius),  Leipzig,  1916,  Bd.  70,  p.  263,  *OAA. 

 The  epiclesis  in  the  Ethiopic  liturgy. 

(In:  Oriental  studies  published  in  com- 
memoration of  the  fortieth  anniversary  of 
Paul  Haupt  as  director  of  the  Oriental  Sem- 
inary of  the  Johns  Hopkins  University. 
Baltimore,  1926.  8°.  p.  446-453.)      *  OAC 

Here  printed  and  translated  for  the  first  time. 

 See  also  under  Anaphora. 

Missa  Aethiopium  quae  etiam  appellatur 
Canon  Universalis.  (In:  J.  P.  Migne,  Pa- 
trologiae  cursus  completus;  series  Latina. 
Paris,  1853.  4°.  v.  138,  col.  907-928.)  ZEL 

Apparently  the  same  as  the  Liturgia  S.  Matthaei 
Apostoli,  above. 

Nouvelles  prieres  des  .  Falachas,  [pan  J. 
Halevy.  (Revue  semitique.  Paris,  1911.  8°. 
tome  19,  p.  96-104,  215-218,  344-364.) 

p.  348-364  are  "Traduction."  *OAA 
Dazu:  Lettre  de  L.  Reinsch,  p.  219. 

Oratio  Eucharistica  Domini  &  Salvatoris 
nostri  Iesu  Christi.  (In:  Hiob  Ludolf,  Ad 
suam  historiam  Aethiopicam  commentarius. 
Francofvrti  ad  Moenvm,  1691.  f°.  p.  341— 
345.)  *  KB 

Text  and  Latin  translation.  The  Latin  translation 
is  reprinted  in  Le  Brun's  Explication  de  la  Messe, 
Liege,  1778,  tome  4,  p.  570-575,  ZHF. 

The  Ordinary  canon  of  the  Mass,  accord- 
ing to  the  use  of  the  Coptic  Church,  trans- 
lated from  two  Magdala  mss.  of  the  British 
Museum  by  C.  Bezold.  (In:  C.  A.  Swain- 
son,  The  Greek  liturgies  chiefly  from  orig- 
inal sources...  Cambridge:  University 
Press,  1884.  8°.  p.  347-395.)  ZHK 

From  British  Museum  ms.  Orient.  545  and  ms. 
Orient.  546. 

Ethiopic  and  English  in  parallel  columns. 

"Many  and  very  remarkable  emendations  of  the 
text  and  the  English  translation  the  author  owes  to 
the  kindness  of  Professor  Dillmann  at  Berlin."  — 
p.  349  note. 

Ordo  baptismi  secundum  usum  /Ethio- 
pum.  (In:  J.  P.  Migne,  Patrologiae  cursus 
completus;  series  Latina.  Paris,  1853.  4°. 
v.  138,  col.  929-950.)  ZEL 


56 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Liturgies,  Rituals,  and  Prayers,  continued. 

Prieres  des  Falashas  ou  Juifs  d'Abyssinie. 
Texte  ethiopien  publie  pour  le  premiere  fois 
et  traduit  en  hebreu  par  J.  Halevy.  Paris: 
Joseph  Baer  et  O,  1877.  58  p.,  1  1.,  28  p. 
12°.  *PXL 

Title  from  cover.  The  Hebrew  translation  has  a 
separate  title-page. 

Renaudot,  Eusebe,  the  younger.  Litur- 
giarum  orientalium  collectio  opera  et  studio 
Eusebii  Renaudotii  Parisini.  Editio  secunda 
correctior.  Francofurti  ad  Moenum:  Sump- 
tibus  Josephi  Baer,  1847.  2  v.  4°.  ZHK 

y.  1 :  p.  469-471 :  In  liturgiam  Aethiopicam  prae- 
fatio.  p.  472-495 :  Liturgia  communis  sive  canon 
universalis  Aethiopicum.  p.  496-518:  In  canonem 
generalem  sive  liturgiam  Aethiopicam  observationes. 

Rodwell,  John  Medows.  See  under 
Hymns;  and  Translations. 

Talvacchia,  F.  II  rituale  etiopico.  (Da 
uno  studio  del  Rev.  Abba  Tecla  Mariam 
Semharai.)  (Bessarione.  Roma,  1921-22.  8°. 
v.  37,  p.  163-168;  v.  38,  p.  283-296.)  *  OAA 

Das  Taufbuch  der  Aethiopischen  Kirche. 
Aethiopisch  und  Deutsch  von  Ernst 
Trumpp.  (Koniglich  Bayerische  Akademie 


der  Wissenschaften.  Abhandlungen :  Phi- 
losophisch-philologische  Classe.  Munchen, 
1878.  4°.  Bd.  14,  Abth.  3,  p.  147-183.)  *  EE 

Baptismal  book  of  the  Ethiopic  Church. 
Translated  by  Prof.  George  H.  Schodde. 
(Lutheran  quarterly.  Gettysburg,  1882.  8°. 
new  series,  v.  12,  p.  29-42.)  *  DA 

Translated  from  Trumpp's  text. 

Translations  from  the  Ethiopic.  By  the 
Rev.  J.  M.  Rodwell.  (Journal  of  sacred 
literature.  London,  1866.  8°.  new  series, 
v.  8,  p.  321-337.)  *  DA 

From  a  ms.  Hymnal  of  Jared,  probably  of  the 
fourteenth  century. 

Contents:  (1)  [Hymn  to  John  the  Baptist].  (2) 
The  festival  of  the  Cross.  (3)  Holy  Gabriel  (Dec. 
15).  (4)  The  hymn  of  the  flowers  and  of  the 
Sabbath-day.  (5)  Hymn  for  the  feast  of  the  Resurrec- 
tion. (6)  Hymn  for  the  vigil  of  Abba  Johanni  (an 
abbot).  (7)  The  vigil  of  the  four  beasts.  (8)  The 
hymn  for  the  Dead.  (9)  Hymn  on  the  Day  of  Doom. 
(10)  The  vigil  of  Menas,  the  Martyr.  (11)  Hymn 
in  honour  of  Nagran  (in  S.  Arabia).  (12)  The  hymn 
for  Martyrs.  (13)  The  hymn  of  the  Just.  (14)  A 
hymn  to  the  Virgin  Mary. 

Trumpp,  Ernst.  See  under  Taufbuch. 

Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich.  See  under 
Chasoslov. 


Magical  Prayers 


Cyprian.  Les  prieres  de  S.  Cyprien  et  de 
Theophile.  Paris:  Bibliotheque  de  la  Haute 
Science,  1896.  2  p.l.,  52  p.  12°.  (LesApo- 
cryphes  ethiopiens  traduits  en  frangais  par 
Rene  Basset,  vi.)  *  OEE  (Bible) 

The  translation  of  the  ''Priere"  of  Cyprian  is  from 
Ms.  57,  fds.  ethiopien  de  la  Bibliotheque  nationale, 
dating  probably  from  the  fifteenth  century.  The 
"Priere"  of  Theophile  is  from  Ms.  58  of  the  same 
collection.  The  appendix,  p.  38-52,  contains  trans- 
lation of  an  Arabic  version  of  the  prayer  of  Cyprian. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  critique  d'histoire  et  de  lit- 
terature,  Paris,  1896,  nouv.  serie,  tome  41,  p.  361- 
362,  NAA. 

Grohmann,  Adolf.  Studien  zu  den  Cy- 
prianusgebeten.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift  fiir  die 
Kunde  des  Morgenlandes.  Wien,  1917/18. 
8°.  Bd.  30,  p.  121-150.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

Enseignements  de  Jesus-Christ  a  ses  dis- 
ciples et  prieres  magiques.  Paris:  Biblio- 
theque de  la  Haute  Science,  1896.  2  p.l.,  36 
p.  12°.  (Les  Apocryphes  ethiopiens  traduits 
en  frangais  par  Rene  Basset,  vii.) 

*  OEE  (Bible) 

Reviewed  in  Revue  critique  d'histoire  et  de  littera- 
ture  (by  R.  D.),  Paris,  1896,  nouv.  serie,  tome  42, 
p.  417,  NAA. 

Euringer,  Sebastian.  Ein  abessinisches 
Amulet  mit  Liedern  zu  Ehren  der  Heiligen 
Gabra  Manfas  Qeddus,  Johannes  und  Ky- 
ros.  (Zeitschrift  fur  Semitistik  und  ver- 
wandte  Gebiete.  Leipzig,  1924.  8°.  Bd.  3. 
p.  116-135.)  *OAA 

The  amulet  is  in  the  Ethnographical  Museum, 
Munich. 


Fries,  Karl.  The  Ethiopic  legend  of 
Socinius  and  Ursula.  (International  Con- 
gress of  Orientalists,  8th,  Stockholm,  1889. 
Actes  du  huitieme  session.  Leide,  1893.  8°. 
Deuxieme  partie,  section  1,  p.  55-70.) 

*OAA 

Sources.  Description  of  the  manuscripts.  Text. 
Translation.  Remarks. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Priere  pour  conjurer 
les  demons.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1923.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  3,  p.  199- 
208.)  *  OAA 

Introductory  note,  text,  translation,  and  explanatory 

notes. 

Halevy,  Joseph.  Explication  d'une  amu- 
lette  ethiopien.  (Journal  asiatique.  Paris, 
1907.  8°.  serie  10,  tome  9,  p.  346.)     *  OAA 

Abstract. 

Littmann,  Enno.  Arde'et:  the  magic  book 
of  the  Disciples.  (American  Oriental  So- 
ciety. Journal.  New  Haven,  1904.  8°.  v.  25, 
p.  1-48.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  translation. 

"Among  the  Ethiopic  magic  books,  the  one  com- 
monly called  Arde'et,  i.e.  'The  Disciples,'  is  held  very 
precious  by  the  Abyssinians.  .  .  It  tells  how  Jesus 
taught  the  Disciples  his  secret  names,  among  them 
the  'great  name;'  how  the  Disciples  went  about  per- 
forming miracles  by  the  power  of  Christ's  name,  and 
were  themselves  saved  by  it  from  the  wrath  of  the 
people  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrha  and  from  many  kings 
and  rulers;  and  finally,  how  Jesus  showed  them  hell 
and  paradise.  The  whole  is  interwoven  with  a  number 
of  long  prayers,  which  sometimes,  as  e.g.  in  chapters 
iv  and  vi,  are  real  compendiums  of  Abyssinian  magic." 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


57 


Magical  Prayers,  continued. 

Littmann,  Enno,  continued. 

  Miinchener  abessinischen.  Amulet. 

(Zeitschrift  fur  Semitistik  und  verwandte 
Gebiete.  Leipzig,  1924.  8°.  Bd.  3,  p.  136- 
137.)  *OAA 

Supplementary  to  Euringer's  article. 

  The  Princeton  Ethiopic  magic  roll. 

(Princeton  University  bulletin.  Princeton, 
1903.  8°.  v.  15,  p.  31-42.)  STG 

Les  Prieres  de  la  Vierge  a  Bartos  et  au 
Golgotha.  Paris:  Librairie  de  l'Art  inde- 
pendant,  1895.  2  p.l.,  71  p.  12°.  (Les  Apo- 
cryphes  ethiopiens  traduits  en  franqais  par 
Rene  Basset,  v.)  *  OEE  (Bible) 

Appendice,  p.  43-71 :  Priere  de  la  Vierge  a  Barton 
(version  arabe). 

Reviewed  in  Revue  critique  d'histoire  et  de  littera- 
ture  (by  R.  D.),  Paris,  1896,  nouv.  serie,  tome  41, 
p.  361-362,  NAA. 


Rhodokanakis,  Nikolaus.  Eine  athio- 
pische  Zaubergebetrolle  im  Museum  der 
Stadt  Wels.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift  fur  die 
Kunde  des  Morgenlandes.  Wien,  1904.  8°. 
Bd.  18,  p.  30-38.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich.  Efiop- 
skiya.  Orationes  falsae  i  exorcismi.  (In: 
Recueil  des  travaux  rediges  en  memoire  du 
jubile  scientifique  de  M.  Daniel  Chwolson. 
Berlin:  S.  Calvary  &  Co.,  1899.  8°.  p.  242- 
267.)  *  PBN 

Worrell,  William  Hoyt.  Studien  zum 
abessinischen  Zauberwesen.  2  pi.  (Zeit- 
schrift fur  Assyriologie.  Strassburg,  1909- 
15.  8°.  Bd.  23,  p.  149-183;  Bd.  24,  p.  59-96; 
Bd.  29,  p.  85-141.)  *OCL 

 Strassburg:  Verlag  von  Karl  J. 

Tnibner,  1909.  1  p.l.,  36  p.,  2  pi.  8°.  *  OEG 

Inaugural  dissertation. 

Reprint  of  the  first  of  the  above  studies. 


Lives  of  Saints 


Collections 

Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson 
Wallis.  Mashafa  gadla  Hawaryat.  The  con- 
tendings  of  the  Apostles;  being  the  histories 
of  the  lives  and  martyrdoms  and  deaths 
of  the  twelve  Apostles  and  Evangelists.  The 
Ethiopic  texts  now  first  edited  from  manu- 
scripts in  the  British  Museum,  with  an 
English  translation.  London:  Henrv 
Frowde,  1899-1901.  2  v.  4°.  f*  OEE 

v.  1 :  The  Ethiopic  text. 

v.  2:  The  English  translation. 

A  translation  of  the  Gadla  Hazvaryat,  an  anonymous 
work  consisting  of  thirty  narratives  dealing  with  the 
doings  of  the  Apostles  and  their  followers.  At  the 
end  of  v.  2  are:  (1)  The  dates  of  the  deaths  of  the 
Apostles;  (2)  Meanings  of  the  names  of  the  twelve 
Apostles;  (3)  Errata,  emendations,  &c. 

This  work  was  originally  composed  in  Coptic  and 
translated  into  Arabic  probably  in  the  second  half 
of  the  thirteenth  century.  From  Arabic  it  was 
rendered  into  Ethiopic  probably  during  the  early 
years  of  th?  fourteenth  century. 

Monumenta  Aethiopiae  hagiologica.  Ed- 
idit  B.  Turiaev.  Petropoli:  Sumptibus  Uni- 
versitatis  Caesareae  Petropolitanae  [1902]. 
2  v.  8°.  (Zapiski  Istoriko-Filologicheskavo 
Fakulteta  Imperatorskavo  C.-Peterburgs- 
kavo  Universiteta.    Part  65,  fasc.  n- in.) 

*OEE 

Fasciculus  i  has  imprint:  Lipsia:  F.  A.  Brockhaus, 
1902. 

Contents:  Fasciculus  i.  Gadla  Filpos  za-Dabra 
Llbanos.  Vita  Philippi  Dabralibanensis  ad  fidem 
manuscripti  Orient.  728  Musei  Britannici  edita,  3 
p.l.,  83(1)  p.,  7  pi. 

Fasciculus  II.  (1)  Gadla  Samu'el  za-Gadama  Wall. 
Vita  Samuelis  Valdebani  ad  fidem  manuscripti  136 
Parisiensis  edita.  (2)  Gadla  [sic]  'Aron  Mankrawi. 
Vita  Aaronis  Mirabilis  (Thaumaturgi)  e  codice  Ori- 
ent. 693  Musei  Britannici  impressa.  [Includes  at 
end:  Sanctorum  invocatis;  Vita  abbatis  Ijasu;  De 
ossibus  sanctoium  Daretensium  narratio.]  (3)  Gadla 
Gabra  'Endreyas.  Vita  et  miracula  Gabra-Endrejas 
ad  fidem  manuscripti  Orient.  702  Musei  Britannici 
edita.   5  p.l.,  91  p. 


The  Synaxarium: 

Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien:  les  mois  de  sane, 
hamle  et  nahase,  publies  et  traduits  par 
Ignazio  Guidi,  avec  le  concours  de  MM.  L. 
Desnoyers  et  A.  Singlas.  i.  Mois  de  sane. 
[Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.,  1905.]  2  p.l., 
(1)524-705  p.  4°.  (Patrologia  orientalis. 
tome  1,  fascicule  5.)  f*  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Analecta  Bollandiana  (by  P. 
P[eeters]),  Bruxellis,  1908,  tome  27,  p.  426-427, 
ZD  A;  Revue  critique  (by  F.  Macler),  Paris,  1908, 
nouv.  serie,  tome  66,  p.  462-463,  NAA;  Theologische 
Literaturzeitung  (by  H.  Duensing),  Leipzig,  1908, 
Jahrg.  33,  col.  491-493,  f  ZEA. 

Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien:  les  mois  de  Tah- 
schasch,  Ter  et  Yakatit,  publies  et  traduits 
par  Sylvain  Grebaut.  iv.  Le  mois  de  Tah- 
schasch.  Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.,  1927. 
2  p.l.,  (1)548-798  p.  4°.  (Patrologia  ori- 
entalis. tome  15,  fasc.  5.)  f*  OAC 

Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien:  les  mois  de  sane, 
hamle,  nahase,  et  paguemen,  publies  et  tra- 
duits par  Ignazio  Guidi,  avec  le  concours  de 
L.  Desnoyers,  A.  Singlas  et  S.  Grebaut. 
in.  Mois  de  nahase  et  de  paguemen.  (Tra- 
duction de  S.  Grebaut.)  [Paris:  Firmin- 
Didot  et  Cie.,  1913.]  1  p.l.,  (1)240^187  p.  4°. 
(Patrologia  orientalis.  tome  9,  fascicule  4.) 

f*  OAC 

Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien:  les  mois  de  sane, 
hamle  et  nahase,  publies  et  traduits  par 
Ignazio  Guidi,  avec  le  concours  de  L.  Des- 
noyers et  A.  Singlas.  n.  Mois  de  hamle. 
[Paris:  Firmin-Didot  et  Cie.,  1910?]  1  p.l., 
(1)208-456  p.  4°.  (Patrologia  orientalis. 
tome  7,  fascicule  3.)  f *  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Oriens  Christianus  (by  Anton  Baum- 
stark),  Leipzig,  1911,  Neue  Serie,  Bd.  1,  p.  345- 
349,  fZJVB. 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


58 

Lives  of  Saints,  continued. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Les  martyrs  d'Akmin 
d'apres  le  Synaxaire  ethiopien.  (Revue  de 
l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1918/19.  8°.  serie 
3,  tome  1,  p.  182-189.)  *  OAA 

Text  only.  From  Paris  ms.  no.  126,  with  notes 
giving  variants  from  Bodleian  ms.  no.  xxiii. 

 Un  fragment  de  menologe  ethiopien. 

(Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1914- 
1920/21.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  9,  p.  199-208; 
tome  10,  p.  201-206;  serie  3,  tome  2,  p.  95- 
99.)  *  OAA 

I.  Le  mois  de  Maskaram. 
ii.  Le  mois  de  Teqemt. 

"Le  present  menologe  est  contenu  dans  le  manuscrit 
ethiopien  no.  4  de  M.  E.  Delorme.  II  a  le  caractere 
d'une  veritable  compilation.  Les  saints  abyssins  sont 
ajoutes  a  la  fin  des  divers  jours,  sous  forme  de 
complement." 

  Menologes  ethiopiens  a  propos  du 

Synaxaire.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1920/21.  8°.  serie  3,  tome  2,  p.  100- 
108.)  *  OAA 

Text,  translation,  and  synoptic  table. 

 Le  "propre"  du  Synaxaire.  (^Ethiops. 

Paris,  1922.  8°.  annee  1,  p.  28-29.)     *  OED 

  Quelques    menologes  ethiopiens. 

(^thiops.  Paris,  1922-23.  8°.  annee  1,  p. 
40-43;  annee  2,  p.  25-27.)  *  OED 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  The  Ethiopic  Senkessar. 
(Royal  Asiatic  Society  of  Great  Britain  and 
Ireland.  Journal.  London,  1911.  8°.  1911, 
p.  739-758.)  *OAA 

The  Senkessar  "was  one  of  the  many  Arabic  works 
translated  in  the  fifteenth  century,  but  was  not  widely 
known  until  the  revival  of  religious  activity,  and 
improved  service  and  creed  in  the  Church  of  Abys- 
sinia, drew  increased  attention  towards  it.  It  was 
then  emended  in  Gondar  or  in  its  neighbourhood  _  as 
to  form,  and  completed  as  tO'  contents,  by  the  addition 
of  many  commemorations,  more  especially  of  Abbys- 
inian  saints,  whose  names,  in  spite  of  the  great 
veneration  in  which  they  were  held,  had  found  no 
mention  in  the  earlier  Senkessar." 

A  resume  of  this  essay  is  given  by  F.  Nau  in  the 
Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien,  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  328- 
330,  Paris,  1913,  *  OAA. 

Senkesar,  or  Synaxaria.  The  calendar  of 
the  Aethiopic  Christian  Church.  (In:  Sir 
William  Cornwallis  Harris,  The  highlands 
of  Aethiopia.  London,  1844.  8°.  v.  3,  p. 
397-436.)  BLL 

Sonkosar  (Synaxaria,  Flos  Sanctorum). 
Der  Kalender  der  athiopisch-christlichen 
Kirche.  (In:  Sir  William  Cornwallis  Harris, 
Gesandtschaftsreise  nach  Shoa  und  Aufen- 
thalt  in  Sudabyssinien,  1841-1843.  Stuttgart 
und  Tubingen,  1846.  8°.  Abth.  2,  Anhange, 
p.  63-118.)  BLL 

Individual  Lives 

Almeida,  Manuel  de.  Vida  de  Takla  Hay- 
manot,  pelo  P.  Manuel  de  Almeida.  .  .pub- 
licada  por  Francisco  Maria  Esteves  Pereira. 


Lisboa:  Imprensa  Lucas,  1899.   26  p.  8°. 

*  OEE  (Takla) 

Reviewed  in  Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien  (by  F. 
Perruchon),  Paris,  1900,  annee  5,  p.  165-166,  *  OAA. 

"Le  texte  de  celle  de  Dabra  Libanos  est  encore 
inedit.  Le  P.  d' Almeida  qui  resida  en  Abyssinie  de 
1624  a  1633  et  qui  nous  a  laisse  une  histoire  de 
l'fithiopie,  malheureusement  encore  inedite,  a  fait  de 
ce  dernier  texte  un  resume  que  vient  de  publier 
M.  Pereira."  —  Perruchon. 

Antiphon  of  Saint  Minas.  (In:  Sir  E.  A. 
W.  Budge,  Texts  relating  to  Saint  Mena  of 
Egypt  and  canons  of  Nicaea  in  a  Nubian 
dialect.  Oxford,  1909.  8°.  p.  74-75.)  *  OEK 

Ethiopic  text  only. 

Basset,  Rene  Marie  Joseph.  Vie  de  Abba 
Yohanni.  (Bulletin  de  correspondance  afri- 
caine.  Alger,  1884.  8°.  annee  3,  p.  433-453.) 

*OBC 

Ethiopic  text,  French  translation,  and  introduction. 

An  Ethiopic  version  of  the  story  of  Barlaam  and 
Josaphat,  which  again  is  a  translation  of  the  life 
of  Buddha.  Barlaam  and  Josaphat  found  their  way 
into  the  Roman  Martyrology  (27  November),  and 
into  the  Greek  Calendar  (26  August). 

Reviewed  in  Melusine  (by  Felix  Liebrecht),  Paris, 
1884/85,  tome  2,  col.  501-502,  \  ZBA. 

Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson 
Wallis.  The  life  of  Takla  Haymanot  in  the 
version  of  Dabra  Libanos,  and  the  miracles 
of  Takla  Haymanot  in  the  version  of  Dabra 
Libanos  and  the  Book  of  the  riches  of  kings. 
The  Ethiopic  texts,  from  the  British  Mu- 
seum ms.  Oriental  723,  edited  with  English 
translations,  to  which  is  added  an  English 
translation  of  the  Waldebban  version.  With 
165  coloured  plates.  London:  Privately 
printed  for  Lady  Meux,  plates  by  W. 
Griggs,  chromo-lithographer  to  His  Majesty 
the  King,  1906.  4  p.l.,  lxiii  p.,  1  1.,  396,  141 
p.,  165  pi.  1  v.  bound  in  2.  f°.         ft*  OEE 

no.  37  of  250  copies  printed  for  private  circulation. 

Reviewed  in  Analccta  Bollandiana  (by  P. 
P[eeters]),  Bruxellis,  1907,  v.  26,  p.  344-345,  ZD  A. 

Two  sets  of  pagination  are  used  in  this  work  — 
one  for  the  translation,  which  comes  first,  and  one 
for  the  Ethiopic  text  at  the  end  of  the  (second) 
volume. 

[v.  1.]  The  life  and  miracles  of  Feshha-Seyon,  the 
son  of  Saga  Za'ab  and_  'Egzi'e  Haraya,  whom  Christ 
surnamed  Takla  Haymanot  [composed  by  Gabra  Mas- 
qal],  p.  1-243.  This  translation  occupies  the  whole 
of  the  volume. 

[v.  2.]  The  book  of  the  history  of  the  translation 
of^  the  body  of  our  father,  the  holy  man,  Takla 
Haymanot  which  took  place  seven  and  fifty  years 
after  his  death,  and  was  revealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit 
to  John  Kama,  p.  244-265.  The  book  of  the  miracles 
of  our  father,  the  holy  man,  Mar  Takla  Haymanot, 
which  was  compiled  by  Abba  Peter,  p.  266-345.  [Only 
a  few  of  the  accounts  of  these  miracles  are  by  Abba 
Peter,  the  compilers  of  the  others  being  unknown.] 
The  book  of  the^  riches  of  kings,  p.  346-352.  The 
life  of  Takla  Haymanot:  the  version  of  Waldebba 
[written  by  Takla  Seyon,  son  of  Abba  Samuel],  p. 
353-388. 

The  Ethiopic  texts  at  the  end  are: 

The  life  of  Takla  Haymanot  —  according  to  the 
version  of  Dabra  Libanos,  p.  1-98.  The  book  of  the 
history  of  the  translation  of  the  body  of  our  father, 
the  holy  man,  Takla  Haymanot,  p.  99-106.  The  book 
of  the  miracles  of  our  father,  the  holy  man,  Takla 
Haymanot,  p.  107-138.  >  The  book  of  the  riches  of 
kings,  by  Takla  Haymanot,  p.  139-141. 


ETHIOPIGA  AND  AMHARICA 


59 


Lives  of  Saints,  continued. 

Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson  Wallis, 
continued. 

 The  lives  of  Maba'  Seyon  and  Gabra 

Krestos.  The  Ethiopic  texts  edited  with  an 
English  translation  and  a  chapter  on  the 
illustrations  of  Ethiopic  mss.  by  E.  A.  W. 
Budge.  London:  W.  Griggs,  1898.  1  p.l., 
lxxxiii  p.,  144,  65  f.,  92  pi.  f °.  (Lady  Meux 
manuscript,  no.  1.)  ft*  OEE 

Charles.  Robert  Henry.  Mr.  E.  A.  W. 
Budge's  edition  of  the  lives  of  Maba  Seyon 
and  Gabra  Krestos.  (Hermathena.  Dublin, 
1899.  8°.  v.  10,  p.  397-406.)  *  C 

After  pointing  out  numerous  errors  in  text  and 
translation,  the  author  concludes:  "From  the  above 
specimens  of  Mr.  Budge's  work,  it  follows  beyond 
the  possibility  of  contradiction,  that  with  his  present 
knowledge  he  is  absolutely  unfitted  either  to  edit  an 
Ethiopic  text  or  to  translate  one." 

 See  also  under  Miracles. 

Chaine,  Marius.  Note  sur  les  animaux 
de  Saint  Menas.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  Chre- 
tien. Paris,  1908.  8°.  serie  2,  v.  3,  p.  212- 
218.)  *OAA 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Gli  atti  di  Abba 
Yonas.  (Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Ren- 
diconti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e 
filologiche.  Roma,  1903.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  5, 
p.  177-201,  238-261.)  *  ER 

Text  and  partial  translation. 
Yonas  (c.  1396-1491)  was  abbot  of  Eritrea. 
Reviewed     in     Analccta     Bollandiana     (by  P. 
P[eeters]),  Bruxellis,  1906,  v.  25,  p.  518. 

  L'autobiografia  di  Pawlos,  monaco 

abissino  del  secolo  xvi.  (Reale  accademia 
dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti :  Classe  di  scienze 
morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1918. 
8°.  serie  5,  v.  27,  p.  279-296.)  *  ER 

Reviewed  in  AEthiops  (by  S.  Grebaut),  Paris,  1922, 
annee  1,  p.  62-63. 

  Besu'a  *\mlak  e  il  Convento  della 

Trinita.  (Reale  accademia  nazionale  dei 
Lincei.  Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienzi  mo- 
rali, storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1902.  8° 
serie  5,  v.  11,  p.  389-429.)  *  ER 

Introduction  and  Ethiopic  text. 

  II  gadla  Filpos  e  il  gadla  Yohannes 

di  Dabra  Bizan.  2  tables.  (Reale  accademia 
nazionale  dei  Lincei.  Atti:  Classe  di  scienze 
morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1903. 
f°.  serie  5,  v.  8,  parte  1,  Memorie,  p.  62- 
170.)  *  ER 

Text  and  notes. 

Reviewed  in  Analecta  Bollandiana  (by  P. 
P[eeters]),  Bruxellis,  1906,  v.  25,  p.  391-392,  ZDA. 

  II  "Gadla  Takla  Haymanot"  secondo 

la  redazione  waldebbana.  (Reale  accademia 
dei  Lincei.  Atti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali, 
storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1896.  4°.  serie 
5,  v.  2,  parte  1,  p.  97-143.)  *  ER 

Text,  p.  102-124.   Translation,  p.  125-143. 
Reviewed  in  Literarisches  Centralblatt  (by  Theodor 
Noldeke),  Leipzig,  1896,  col.  1608-1609,  NAA. 


 Roma:  Tipografia  della  R.  Ac- 
cademia dei  Lincei,  1896.  49  p.  4°.   *  OEE 

Esteves  Pereira,  Francisco  Maria.  Acta 
martyrum  edidit  Franciscus  Maria  Esteves 
Pereira.  I.  Romae :  Excudebat  Karolus  de 
Luigi,  1907.  2  p.l.,  275(1)  p.  8°.  (Corpus 
scriptorum  Orientalium.  Scriptores  Aethio- 
pici.  Series  altera,  torn.  28.)  *  OEE 

1.  Gadla  Fasiladas  seu  martyrium  sancti  Basilidis, 
p.  1-67;  effigies  Basilidis  (malke'e  Fasilidas),  p.  68- 
78;  gadla  Yostos  seu  martyrium  Sanctorum  Iusti  et 
Aboli  eius  filii,  et  Theocliae  eius  uxoris,  p.  79-117; 
malke'e  Yostos,  p.  118-119;  malke'e  Aboli,  p.  120- 
122;  gadla  Tewoderos  seu  martyrium  S.  Theodori 
Anatolii,  p.  123-151;  malke'e  Tewoderos,  p.  152-164; 
gadla  Abadir  seu  martyrium  Sanctorum  Apatris  et 
Irenis  sororis  eius,  p.  165-189;  malke'e  Abadir,  p. 
190-192;  gadla  Galawdewos  seu  martyrium  Sancti 
Claudii,  p.  193-216;  malke'e  Galawdewos,  p.  217-226; 
gadla  Fiqtor  seu  martyrium  Sancti  Victoris,  p.  227- 
247;  malke'e  Fiqtor,  p.  248-257;  gadla  Susenyos  seu 
martyrium  Sancti  Sisinnii,  p.  259-272.  Emendata,  p. 
273-275.   Index  tomi  xxviii,  p.  (273). 

  Acta  martyrum  interpretatus  est  Fr. 

M.  Esteves  Pereira.  Romae:  Excudebat 
Karolus  de  Luigi,  1907.  249  p.,  1  1.  8°. 

*OEE 

Reviewed  in  Zeitschrift  dcr  Deutschen  morgen- 
landischen  Gcsellschaft  (by  Franz  Praetorius),  Leip- 
zig, 1909,  Bd.  63,  p.  404-406,  *OAA;  Analecta 
Bollandiana  (by  P.  P[eeters]),  Bruxellis,  1908,  v. 
27,  p.  69-73,  ZDA;  Journal  asiatique  (by  A.  Gueri- 
not),  Paris,  1908,  serie  10,  tome  12,  p.  293-302, 
*OAA;  Literarisches  Zentralblatt  (by  S[chwall]y), 
Leipzig,  1909,  Jahrg.  60,  col.  1175,  NAA;  Theologische 
Litcraturzeitung  (by  Eb.  Nestle),  Leipzig,  1910, 
Jahrg.  35,  col.  751,  ^ZEA. 

  Historia  dos  martyres  de  Nagran. 

Versao  ethiopica  publicada  por  Francisco 
Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  Lisboa:  Imprensa 
nacional,  1899.  lviii,  198  p.,  1  1.,  1  plan.  8°. 
(Quarto  centenario  do  descobrimento  da 
India.  Contribuigoes  da  Sociedade  de  ge- 
ographia  de  Lisboa.)  *  OEE 

Contents:  Introducgao.  i.  Guerras  entre  os  reis  de 
Ethiopia  e  de  Himyar  no  primeiro  quartel  do  seculo 
vi.  ii.  Carta  de  Simeon,  bispo  de  Beth-Arsam  (a, 
authenticidade.  b,  integridade.  c,  data  da  composigao. 
d,  valor  historico).  in.  Martyrio  de  S.  Arethas  e  dos 
seus  companheiros  na  cidade  de  Negran  (a,  text 
grego.  b,  versao  arabica.  c,  versao  ethiopica.  d,  docu- 
mentos  que  derivam  da  versao  ethiopica).  iv.  Kaleb, 
rei  de  Aksum  (1,0  conquistador  do  reino  de  Himyar. 
2,  Moedas  do  rei  Kaleb.  3,  A  lenda  de  Arve.  4, 
Beta  Kaleb  Negus,  with  plan.  5  (misnumbered  4), 
Oragao  de  rei  Kaleb).  (i)  Carta,  isto  e,  Historia  dos 
martyres  himyaritas  por  Simeon,  bispo  dos  Christaos 
da  Persia,  a  qual  foi  enviada  de  Hirtha  de  Beth- 
Naaman,  p.  3-31  [translated  from  the  Syriac].  (n) 
Martyrio  de  Santo  Arethas  e  dos  seus  companheiros 
na  cidade  de  Negran,  p.  35-76.  Historia  das  gentes 
de  Nagran,  p.  77-122  (Ethiopic  text);  traducgao,  p. 
123-165.  Appendice:  (i)  Synaxaria  ethiopica,  dia  26 
do  mez  de  hedar,  p.  169-173;  traducgao,  p.  175-178. 
(n)  Synaxaria  ethiopica,  dia  20  do  mez  de  genbot, 
p.  179-180;  traducgao,  p.  181-182.  (in)  Antiphonas 
das  gentes  de  Nagran  (Ethiopic  text),  p.  183-185; 
traducgao,  p.  187-189.  (iv)  Historia  do  Emperador 
Caleb  ou  Elesbaan,  assim  como  se  acha  nos  livros  de 
Ethiopia,  p.  191-193.  (v)  Historia  do  Santo  Rey 
Kaleb,  p.  195-198. 

  Martyrio  do  Abba  Isaac  de  Tiphre 

segundo  a  versao  ethiopica  por  Francisco 
Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  Coimbra:  Imprensa 
da  Universidade,  1903.  32  p.  8°.       *  OEE 

Portuguese  translation  only,  with  introductory 
note. 

Extracto  do  vol.  50  do  Instituto. 


60 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Lives  of  Saints,  continued. 

Esteves  Pereira,  Francisco  Maria,  continued. 

 Sem'e  zaqedest  'Emrayes.  Martyrio  de 

santa  Emerayes  (Ama  Heraei).  Versao 
ethiopica  segundo  o  Ms.  orient.  686  do 
Museu  Britannico  publicada  por  F.  M. 
Esteves  Pereira.  Lisboa,  1902.  22  p.  4°. 

Text  and  translation.    Lithographed.  *  OEE 

  Vida  do  Abba  Samuel  do  mosteiro 

do  Kalamon.  Versao  ethiopica.  Lisboa: 
Imprensa  nacional,  1894.  3  p.l.,  202  p.,  1  1. 
8°.  (Sociedade  de  geographia  de  Lisboa.) 

*OEF 

Introducgao.  i.  Estado  da  christandade  do  Egypto 
na  primeira  metade  do  septimo  seculo.  n.  O  abba 
Samuel,  in.  Epoca  e  localidades  em  que  viveu  o 
abba  Samuel,  iv.  O  Maqauqas  (=the  patriarch  Cyrus), 
v.  Os  barbaros  do  occidente  do  Egypto.  vi.  Texto 
copto  da  Vida  do  abba  Samuel,  vn.  Versao  ethiopica 
da  Vida  do  abba  Samuel  (a,  versao  ethiopica;  b, 
variantes;  c,  traducgao).  Appendices:  i.  Synaxaria 
ethiopica.  Commemoragao  do  fallecimento  do  abba 
Samuel.  Traduccao.  n.  Synaxario  copta.  Com- 
memoragao  do  fallecimento  do  abba  Samuel  [Arabic 
text].  Traducgao.  in.  Descripgao  do  mosteiro  do 
Kalamon  por  Abu  Selah  (Arabic  text).  Traducgao. 
iv.  Descripgao  do  mosteiro  do  Kalamon  por  Al  Maq- 
rizi  (Arabic  text).  Traducgao. 

Reviewed  in  Zeitschrift  der  Deutschen  morgen- 
landischen  Gesellschaft  (by  Theodor  Noldeke),  Leip- 
zig, 1894,  Bd.  48,  p.  158-163,  *OAA. 

  Vida  de  santo  Abunafre  (S.  Onu- 

phrio).  Versao  ethiopica  publicada  por 
Francisco  Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  Lisboa: 
Tipographia  do  Commercio,  1905.  26  p.  8°. 

*OEE 

"A  versao  ethiopica  da  Vida  de  santo  Abunafre  foi 
feita  de  uma  versao  arabica,  e  vem  de  um  texto 
grego.  A  versao  ethiopica  concorda  em  geral  muito 
estrictamento  com  a  versao  coptica." 

Reviewed  in  Analecta  Bollandiana  (by  P. 
Pceetersi),  Bruxellis,  1906,  tomus  25,  p.  203-204, 
ZD  A. 

  Vida  de  S.  Gregorio,  patriarcha  da 

Armenia.  Conversao  dos  Armenios  ao 
christianismo.  Versao  ethiopica  publicada 
por  Francisco  Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  (So- 
ciedade de  geographia  de  Lisboa.  Boletim. 
Lisboa,  1903.  8°.  serie  19,  p.  851-892.)  KAA 

Text,  Portuguese  translation,  list  of  variants,  and 
index  of  proper  names. 

 [Lisboa,  1903.]  42  p.  8°.  *  OEE 

Text  and  translation. 

Reviewed  in  Imperatorskoye  Russkoye  Arkheo- 
logicheskoye  Obshchestvo :  Zapiski  Vostochnavo 
Otdelcniya  (by  N.  Marr),  S.-Peterburg,  1903,  t.  15, 
p.  0185-0187,  *QCB. 

  Vida  de  Santa  Maria  Egypcia.  Ver- 
sao ethiopica  segundo  o  ms.  oriental  686  do 
Museu  Britannico  publicada  por  Francisco 
Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  Lisboa:  Typo- 
graphia  do  Commercio,  1903.  xii,  43  p.  8°. 

Text  and  translation  into  Portuguese.         *  OEF 

 Vida  de  S.  Paulo  de  Thebas,  primeiro 

eremita,  versao  ethiopica,  segundo  o  ms. 
eth.  no.  60  de  A.  d'Abbadie,  publicada  por 
Francisco  Maria  Esteves  Pereira.  Lisboa, 
1903.  vi,  16  p.  8°.  *OACp.v.25 

Ethiopic  text  only. 


  Vie  de  sainte  Marine.    Texte  ethio- 

pien  publie  par  F.  M.  Esteves  Pereira. 
(Revue  de  1'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1903. 
8°.  annee  8,  p.  614-622.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

"La  version  ethiopienne  de  la  vie  de  sainte  Marine 
est  contenue  dans  le  Synaxaire  de  Eglise  d'Ethiopie, 
le  quinzieme  jour  du  mois  de  nahase. 

II  Gadla  Libanos.  (In:  Carlo  Conti  Ros- 
sini, Ricordi  di  un  soggiorno  in  Eritrea.  As- 
mara, 1903.  8°.  p.  23-41.)  *OEI 

Text  only. 

From  a  ms.  in  the  convent  of  Dabra  Libanos. 

II  Gadla  Sadqan.  (In:  Carlo  Conti  Ros- 
sini, Ricordi  di  un  soggiorno  in  Eritrea. 
Asmara,  1903.  8°.  p.  7-22.)  *  OEI 

From  a  ms.  in  the  church  of  Baraknaha,  a  village 
in  Enda  Dascim. 

This  life  was  previously  unknown  to  Ethiopic 
scholars. 

Text  only. 

Gadla  Takla  Haymanot.  (In:  Jean  Du- 
chesne-Fournot,  Mission  en  fithiopie.  Paris, 
1909.  4°.  tome  1,  p.  340-431.)  BLM 

A  French  translation  of  an  eighteenth  century 
redaction  of  the  Dabra  Libanos  version  of  the  life 
of  the  saint. 

"Le  manuscrit  rapporte  par  la  mission  Duchesne- 
Fournet  est  la  transcription  d'un  ouvrage  ancien 
remontant  au  xve  siecle.  La  composition  en  aurait 
ete  effectuee  au  temps  du  roi  Gabra  Masqal, 
Athanese  etant  patriarche  d'Ethiopie. 

"Les  noms  de  l'auteur  ainsi  que  du  premier  pos- 
sesseur  du  livre  ont  ete  grattes.  On  peut  savoir, 
seulement,  qu'il  a  appentenu,  dans  la  suite,  a  un 
religieux  nomme  Melchissedec. 

"Ce  manuscrit  est  divise  en  trois  parties:  la 
premiere  raconte  la  vie  du  saint;  la  seconde  traite 
de  ses  miracles;  la  troisieme,  inachevee,  est  con- 
sacree  a  la  migration  des  patriarches  Abraham,  Isaac 
et  Jacob,  et  est  etrangere  au  sujet  principal.  Le 
style  en  est  soigne  et  il  est  ecrit  dans  le  gheez  le 
plus  pur."  —  p.  339. 

Goldschmidt,  Lazarus,  and  F.  M.  Esteves 
Pereira.  Vida  do  Abba  Daniel  do  mosteiro 
de  Scete.  Versao  ethiopica  publicada  por 
Lazarus  Goldschmidt  e  F.  M.  Esteves  Pe- 
reira. Lisboa:  Imprensa  nacional,  1897. 
xxii,  58  p.,  1  1.  8°.  (Quarto  centenario  do 
descobrimento  da  India.  Contributes  da 
Sociedade  de  geographia  de  Lisboa.)  *  OEF 

Goodspeed,  Edgar  Johnson.  The  Book  of 
Thecla.  (American  journal  of  Semitic 
languages  and  literatures.  Chicago,  1901. 
8°.  v.  17,  p.  65-95.)  *OBA 

Text,  translation,  and  notes. 

  The  Epistle  of  Pelagia.  (American 

journal  of  Semitic  languages  and  literatures. 
Chicago,  1904.  8°.  v.  20,  p.  95-108.)  *  OBA 

Text,  translation,  and  introductory  notes. 
From  three  mss.  in  the  British  Museum. 

  The    martyrdom   of   Cyprian  and 

Justa.  (American  journal  of  Semitic  lang- 
uages and  literatures.  Chicago,  1903.  8°. 
v.  19,  p.  65-82.)  *OBA 

Text,  translation,  and  introductory  notes. 
From  three  mss.  in  the  British  Museum. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


61 


Lives  of  Saints,  continued. 
Goodspeed,  Edgar  Johnson,  continued. 

  The  story  of  Eugenia  and  Philip. 

(American  journal  of  Semitic  languages  and 
literatures.  Chicago,  1904.  8°.  v.  21,  p.  37- 
56.)  *OBA 

Text  and  translation.  Based  on  three  mss.  in  the 
British  Museum. 

Reviewed  in  Analccta  Bollandiana  (by  P. 
Pceetersi),  Bruxellis,  1906,  v.  25,  p.  200,  ZD  A. 

Grebaut,  Sylvain.  Fin  du  martyre  d'Atha- 
nase  de  Clysma.  (^Ethiops.  Paris,  1923.  8°. 
annee  2,  p.  27-28.)  *  OED 

Ethiopic  text  only. 

  Miracle   des   saints   Cyr  et  Jean. 

(^Ethiops.  Paris,  1923.  8°.  annee  2,  p.  9- 
10.)  *OED 

  Les  miracles  du  saint  enfant  Cyri- 

aque.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris, 
1913-1918/19.  8°.  serie  2,  tome  8,  p.  419-423; 
tome  9,  p.  93-97;  tome  10,  p.  106-109,  129- 
132;  serie  3,  tome  1,  p.  409-411.)        *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

  Vie  de  Barsoma  le  Syrien.  (Revue 

de  l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1908-09.  8°. 
serie  2,  tome  3,  p.  337-345;  tome  4,  p.  135- 
142,  264-275,  401-416.)  *  OAA 

Ethiopic  text  and  French  translation. 

p.  414-416:  Appendice:  Barsome  le  Syrien  d'apres 
le  Synaxaire  ethiopien  (traduction). 

"Barsoma  est  l'archimandrite  syrien  monophysite, 
ne  pres  de  Sampsatc,  l'ascete  rigide,  l'adversaire 
acharne  du  nestorianisme,  le  soutien  de  Dioscore, 
patriarche  d'Alexandrie.  II  joua  un  role  considerable 
au  Brigandage  d'Ephcsc  (449),  participa,  par  ses 
violences,  au  meurtre  de  Flavien,  eveque  de  Con- 
stantinople, fut  chasse  du  concile  de  Chalcedonie  (451) 
et  mourut  excommunie  le  ler  fevrier  482." 

Guerrier,  H.  Un  texte  ethiopien  du  sym- 
bole  de  saint  Athanase.  (Revue  de  l'Orient 
chretien.  Paris,  1915/17.  8°.  serie  2,  tome 
10,  p.  68-76,  133-141.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

"Ce  syn  bole  est  appele  Symbole  d'Afrique.  La 
souscription  l'attribue  a  saint  Athanase.  II  est  de 
meme  allure  que  le  Quicumque,  mais  il  en  differe 
assez  notablement." 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Gli  atti  apocrifi  degli 
apostoli  nel  testi  copti,  arabi  ed  etiopici. 
(Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Giornale.  Firenze, 
1888.  8°.  v.  2,  p.  1-66.)  *  OAA 

  II  "Gadla  'Aragawi."  (Reale  acca- 

demia  dei  Lincei.  Atti:  Classe  di  scienze 
morali,  storiche  e  filologiche.  Memorie. 
Roma,  1896.  4°.  serie  5,  v.  2,  parte  1,  p.  54- 
96.)  *  ER 

The  life  of  Za-Mika'el  Aragawe,  one  of  the  cele- 
brated "nine  saints"  credited  with  having  spread  the 
gospel  in  Abyssinia. 

Text  from  ms.  in  the  British  Museum,  with 
variants  from  other  mss.,  introduction  and  "Som- 
mario  analitico." 

Reviewed  in  Gottinqische  gelehrte  Anseigen  (by 
Theodor  Noldeke),  Berlin,  1896,  Jahrg.  158,  p.  168- 
172,  *DF. 


  La  storia  di  Hayla  Mika'el.  (Reale 

accademia  nazionale  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche. Roma,  1902.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  11,  p.  1- 
79.)  *  ER 

Text  only. 

  Textes  orientaux  inedits  du  martyre 

de  Judas  Cyriaque,  eveque  de  Jerusalem; 
texte  ethiopien.  (Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien. 
Paris,  1906.  8°.  annee  11,  p.  337-351.) 

*OAA 

Text  and  partial  translation. 

The  Syriac  text  of  the  martyrdom  of  Judas 
Cyriaca  was  published  in  v.  9,  p.  79-95,  and  only 
that  part  of  the  Ethiopic  is  here  translated  which 
fills  the  lacuna  in  the  Syriac  text. 

Guidi,  Michelangelo.  Contributo  all'  agio- 
grafia  etiopica.  (Reale  accademia  dei  Lin- 
cei. Rendiconti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali, 
storiche  e  filologiche.  Roma,  1916.  8°.  serie 
5,  v.  25,  p.  659-701.)  *  ER 

La  vita  di  Aron  di  Sarug. 
Text  and  Italian  translation. 
From  ms.  d'Abbadie,  no.  63. 

The  Martyrdom  of  Saint  Minas,  from  the 
Book  of  the  acts  of  saints  and  martyrs.  (In: 
Sir  E.  A.  W.  Budge,  Texts  relating  to  Saint 
Mena  of  Egvpt  and  canons  of  Nicaea  in  a 
Nubian  dialect.  Oxford,  1909.  8°.  p.  62-73.) 

*OEK 

Translation,  p.  44-58. 

The  Martyrdom  of  Saint  Minas,  from  the 
Ethiopic  Synaxarium.  (In:  Sir  E.  A.  W. 
Budge.  Texts  relating  to  Saint  Mena  of 
Egypt  and  canons  of  Nicaea  in  a  Nubian 
dialect.  Oxford,  1909.  8°.  p.  59-61.)  *  OEK 

Translation,  p.  39-43. 

The  Miracles  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary, 
and  the  life  of  Hanna  (Saint  Anne),  and  the 
magical  prayers  of  the  'Aheta  Mikael.  The 
Ethiopic  texts  edited  with  English  transla- 
tions, etc.,  bv  E.  A.  Wallis  Budge.  London: 
W.  Griggs,  "1900.  2  p.l.,  lxv  p.,  158  f.,  159- 
220  p.,  116  f.,  Ill  pi.  sq.  f°.  (Lady  Meux 
manuscripts,  no.  2-5.)  ft*  OEE 

Pawlos,  monk  of  Abyssinia.  See  under 
Conti  Rossini,  Carlo. 

Peeters,  Paul.  Antoine  le  neo-martyr. 
Par  P.  P.  (Analecta  Bollandiana.  Bruxelles, 
1912.  8°.  tomus  31,  p.  410-450.)  ZDA 

Ethiopic  text,  p.  422-440,  from  ms.  d'Abbadie,  no. 
179,  fol.  36-38v. 

Arabic  text  from  modern  ms.  in  the  library  of  the 
College  of  S.  Joseph,  Beyrouth,  and  Latin  translation. 

Perruchon,  Jules.  Vie  de  Lalibala,  roi 
d'fithiopie;  texte  ethiopien  publie  d'apres 
un  manuscrit  du  Musee  britannique  et  tra- 
duction franchise,  avec  un  resume  de  l'his- 
toire  des  Zagiies  et  la  description  des  eglises 
monolithes   par  Jules    Perruchon.  Paris: 


62 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Lives  of  Saints,  continued. 

Ernest  Leroux,  1892.  xlvii,  164  p.  8°.  (ficole 
des  lettres  d'Alger.  Bulletin  de  correspond- 
ance  africaine.  [tome]  10.)  *  OAC 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by 
Theodor  Noldeke),  Berlin,  1893,  p.  234-238,  *DF. 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz.  Be- 
merkungen  zu  Takla  Hawaryat.  (Deutsche 
morgenlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1911.   8°.  Bd.  65,  p.  781-793.) 

*OAA 

Theodosius,  archbishop  of  Alexandria. 
Saint  Michael  the  archangel.  Three  encom- 
iums by  Theodosius,  archbishop  of  Alex- 
andria, Severus,  patriarch  of  Antioch,  and 
Eustathius,  bishop  of  Trake.  The  Coptic 
texts  with  extracts  from  Arabic  and  Ethio- 
pic  versions,  edited  with  a  translation  by 
E.  A.  Wallis  Budge.  London:  Kegan  Paul, 
Trench,  Triibner  &  Co.,  Ltd.,  1894.  xxxvii, 
108,  242  p.  4°.  f*OCD 

The  Ethiopic  version  of  the  encomium  upon  Saint 
Michael  by  Severus  of  Antioch,  p.  195-216.  Text  only. 

Reviewed  in  L'Oriente  (by  I.  G[uidi]),  Roma, 
1895,  v.  2,  p.  81-83,  *OAA. 

Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich.  Kopto- 
efiopskoye  skazaniye  o  prepodobnom  Kire. 
(Imperatorskoye  Russkoye  Arkheologiches- 
koye   Obshchestvo.    Zapiski  Vostochnavo 


Otdeleniya.  S.-Peterburg,  1903.  4°.  torn. 
15,  v.  1,  p.  01-020.)  *QCB 

Ethiopic  text  with  Russian  translation,  cf.  O. 
Lemm,  ibid.,  p.  xviii-xix. 

 See  also  under  Monumenta  Aethiopiae 

hagiologica. 

Vie  et  office  de  sainte  Marine  (textes 
latins,  grecs,  coptes,  arabes,  syriaques,  ethi- 
opien,  haut-allemand,  bas-allemand  et  fran- 
gais)  publies  par  Leon  Clugnet...  Paris: 
Librairie  A.  Picard  et  fils,  1905.  2  p.l.,  xl, 
296  p.,  1  1.,  1  pi.  illus.  8°.  (Bibliotheque 
hagiographique  orientale.  [V.]  8.)       *  ODN 

Texte  ethiopien  publie  par  F.  M.  Esteves  Pereira, 
p.  192-200.  Text,  p.  193-196;  translation,  p.  197-200. 

Wajnberg,  Isaak.  Gadla  Jafqerana  'Egzi' ; 
das  Leben  des  hi.  Jafqerana  'Egzi'  (aethiop. 
Text,  Ubersetzung  und  Einleitung) .  .  .  Wei- 
mar: Hof-Buchdruckerei,  1917.  38  p.  8°. 

Einleitung  only.  *  OAC  p.V.35 

Wensinck,  Arent  Jan.  Legends  of  eastern 
saints,  chiefly  from  Syriac  sources;  edited 
and  partly  translated  by  A.  J.  Wensinck. 
v.  1-2.  Leyden:  E.  J.  Brill,  Ltd.,  1911-13. 
2  v.  facsims.  8°.  *  ODO 

v.  1 :  The  story  of  Archelides.   Ethiopic  text.   7  p. 
v.  2 :  The  legend  of  Hilaria.   Ethiopic  text.   9  p. 
The  text  of  each  language  is  separately  paged. 

Yonas,  Abba.   See  under  Conti  Rossini, 

Carlo. 


Amharic  Language  and  Literature 

"Amharic  or  Amarinna  is  the  language  most  widely  spoken  and  written  in  Abyssinia 
at  the  present  day.  It  is  indigenous  not  only  in  Amhara,  the  district  from  which  the  name 
is  taken,  but  over  the  greater  part  of  central  Abyssinia.  The  ascendancy  of  the  Shoan  race, 
whose  mother-tongue  it  is,  has  established  it  as  the  official  language  of  the  Ethiopian 
empire."  —  Armbruster. 

There  are  two  principal  dialects  —  that  of  Gojjam  and  that  of  Shoa. 


Abbadie,  Antoine  Thompson  d\  Diction- 
naire  de  la  langue  amarinna.  Paris:  F. 
Vieweg,  1881.  xlvii  p.,  1336  cols.  8°.  (So- 
ciete  philologique.  Actes.  tome  10.)  *  OEI 

"...  ouvrage  important,  mais  que  son  systeme  de 
prononciation,  figuree  a  rendu  presque  inutile  a  ceux 
qui  n'etaient  pas  deja  familiarises  avec  les  etudes 
linguistiques.  Tel  qu'il  est,  il  constitue  un  bien 
precieux  element  pour  1'etude  de  l'amharique."  — 
Mon  don- Vidailhet. 

 Another  copy.  RAA 

Afa-Warq,  Gabra  Iyesus.  Ityopya.  Gram- 
matica  della  lingua  amarica.  Metodo  pra- 
tico  per  l'insegnamento  di  G.  J.  Afevork. 
Roma:  Tipografia  della  R.  Accademia  dei 
Lincei,  1905.  1  p.l.,  326  p.,  1  1.  8°.     *  OEI 

Reviewed  in  Rivista  degli  studi  orientali  (by  F. 
Beguinot),  Roma,  1909,  v.  2,  p.  247-251,  *OAA; 
Pctcrmanns  Mitteilungen  (by  Fr.  J.  Bieber),  Gotha, 
1909,  Bd.  55,  Literaturbericht,  p.  247,  KAA. 

Ten  of  the  poetical  pieces  in  this  volume,  p.  318— 
122,  are  reprinted  and  translated  into  Italian  by 
Guidi,  Strofe  e  brevi  testi  amarici. 


 Ityopya.  Guide  du  voyageur  en  Abys- 

sinie.  Rome:  Imprimerie  C.  de  Luigi,  1908. 
1  p.l.,  272  p.  8°.  *OEI 

Amharic  and  French  conversation  book. 
Reviewed  in  Rivista  degli  studi  orientali  (by  F. 
Beguinot),  v.  2,  p.  251,  Roma,  1909,  *OAA. 

  Ityopya.   II  verbo  amarico.  Roma: 

Tipografia  poliglotta  vaticana,  1911.  2  p.l., 
205  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

Alone,  J.  P.  Short  manual  (with  vocabu- 
lary) of  the  Amharic  language,  prepared  for 
the  General  Staff.  London:  Printed  by  Har- 
rison and  Sons,  1909.  2  p.l.,  213  p.,  2  folded 
tables.  16°.  *  OEI  (Great  Britain) 

English-Amharic  vocabulary,  p.  75-145.  Amharic- 
English  vocabulary,  p.  146-213. 

Armbruster,  Charles  Hubert.  Initia  Am- 
harica.  An  introduction  to  spoken  Amharic. 
Part  i.  Grammar.  Cambridge:  University 
Press,  1908.  xxiii,  398  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by 
Ignazio  Guidi),  Leipzig,   1909,  Jahrg.   171,  p.  933- 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


63 


Amharic  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

937,  *DF;  Literarisches  Zentralblatt,  Leipzig,  1908, 
Jahrg.  59,  col.  1461-1462,  NAA ;  Journal  of  the 
African  Society,  London,  1909,  v.  8,  p.  446-447, 
BKA;  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  (by 
Eugen  Mittwoch),  London,  1911,  p.  1163-1165,  *OAA 

 Part  II.  English-Amharic  vo- 
cabulary with  phrases.  Cambridge:  Uni- 
versity Press,  1910.  xxviii,  504  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

Reviewed  in  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society 
(by  Eugen  Mittwoch),  London,  1911,  p.  1165-1166, 
*OAA;  Literarisches  Zentralblatt,  Leipzig,  1911, 
Jahrg.  62,  col.  703,  NAA;  Journal  of  the  African 
Society  (by  H.  H.),  London,  1911,  v.  10,  p.  493-494, 
BKA. 

    Part  in.  Amharic-English  vo- 
cabulary, with  phrases.  Vol.  I.  H-S.  Cam- 
bridge: University  Press,  1920.  xxx,  966  p. 
8°.  *OEI 

Barth,  Christian  Gottlob.  Dr.  Barth's 
Bible-stories.  Translated  into  Amharic  by 
J.  M.  Flad...  St.  Chrischona.  near  Basle, 
Switzerland:  Printed  at  the  Mission  Press, 
1892.  3  p.l.,  211  p.,  1  pi.  illus.  4.  ed.  12°. 

*OEI 

The  Amharic  title  reads:  Hiilat  glze  'amsa  hulat 
tarik  kabludana  kadus  kidan  tatarguoma  ka  Martin 
Flad. 

Beguinot,  F.  Di  alcuni  fenomeni  di  vari- 
azione  fonetica  combinatoria  e  dissimilatoria 
in  amarico.  (Rivista  degli  studi  orientali. 
Roma,  1909.  8°.  v.  2,  p.  509-534.)     *  OAA 

Bible.  Biblia  sacra  Amharice.  Sub  aus- 
piciis  D.  Asselini  rerum  Gallicarum  apud 
^gyptios  Pro'curatoris  in  linguam  Am- 
haricam  vertit  Abu-Rumi  Habessinus.  Ed- 
idit  Thomas  Pell  Piatt.  Londini:  impressit 
Ricardus  Watts,  impensis  Societatis  ad 
Biblia  Sacra  in  Britannia  et  apud  Exteras 
Gentes  Evulganda  Institutae,  mdcccxliv.  647 
1.  sq.  8°.  *OEI 

With  two  general  titles  in  Latin  and  in  Amharic; 
and  separate  titles  to  the  Old  Testament  and  the 
New  Testament. 

This  translation  was  made  by  Abu  Rumi,  an 
Abyssinian  monk,  under  the  supervision  of  M.  Asselin 
de  Chervilh,  the  French  consul  at  Cairo.  The  trans- 
lation was  made  from  the  Arabic  corrected  by  the 
Vulgate,  with  collateral  help  from  the  Hebrew,  Greek, 
and  Syriac  versions.  In  a  note  on  verso  of  title  the 
editor  states  that  he  left  the  earlier  portion  of  Abu 
Rumi's  ms.  almost  untouched,  but  in  the  later  parts, 
following  the  suggestions  of  Rev.  Samuel  Gobat 
(Church  Missionary  Society  missionary  in  Abyssinia 
and  afterwards  Anglican  bishop  in  Jerusalem),  he 
made  many  alterations  and  corrections  from  the  He- 
brew and  Greek.  In  an  additional  note  (dated  2 
Jan.  1844)  on  verso  of  title,  the  editor,  T.  P.  Piatt, 
states  that  owing  to  the  advance  issue  of  many  copies 
of  the  Pentateuch,  a  reprint  of  that  portion  became 
necessary.  He  therefore  seized  the  opportunity  to 
make  many  emendations  in  the  Pentateuch,  correcting 
Abu  Rumi's  version  by  the  Hebrew  text,  with  help 
from  Rev.  C.  W.  Isenberg. 

The  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  paid  £1,250 
for  Abu  Rumi's  ms. 

Bible.  —  Old  Testament.  The  Books  of 
the  Old  Testament.  Translated  into  the 
Amharic  language  by  Abba  Rukh,  an  Abys- 
sinian learned.  For  the  first  time  corrected 
and  edited  in  England  by  the  Rev.  Thomas 


Piatt.  Now  improved  after  the  Hebrew 
original  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Krapf  in  Germany. 
St.  Chrishona,  near  Basle:  Printed  at  the 
expense  and  by  the  request  of  the  British 
and  Foreign  Bible  Society  in  London,  1871. 
821(1)  p.    16°.  *OEI 

The  first  part.  Containing  the  five  Books  of 
Moses,  the  Book  of  Joshua,  the  Book  of  Judges,  the 
Book  of  Ruth. 

  The  Book  of  the  Prophets  in  Am- 
haric. The  third  part  of  the  Old  Testament. 
St.  Chrishona,  near  Basle:  Printed  at  the 
expense  and  by  the  request  of  the  British 
and  Foreign  Bible  Society  in  London,  1873. 
775(1)  p.  16°.  *OEI 

Title  also  in  Amharic. 

Bible.  —  New  Testament:  Amharic.  No- 
vum Testamentum  Domini  Nostri  et  Serva- 
toris  Jesu  Christi.  Sub  auspiciis  D.  Asselini 
rerum  Gallicarum  apud  /Egyptios  procura- 
toris  in  linguam  Amharicam  vertit  Abu- 
Rumi  Habessinus.  Edidit  Thomas  Pell 
Piatt...  Londini:  Impressit  Ricardus 
Watts  impensis  Societatis  ad  Biblia  Sacra 
in  Britannia  ex  apud  exteras  gentes  evul- 
ganda institutae,  1829.  356  1.  4°.        *  OEI 

The  first  complete  New  Testament  published  in 
Amharic. 

Translated  into  Amharic  by  Abu  Rumi,  an  Abys- 
sinian monk,  under  the  supervision  of  M.  Asselin  de 
Cherville,  the  French  consul  in  Cairo.  "The  trans- 
lation was  made  from  the  Arabic  corrected  by  the 
Vulgate,  with  collateral  help  from  the  Hebrew,  Greek, 
and  Syriac."  Edited  by  T.  Pell  Piatt  with  the 
assistance  of  Prof.  Samuel  Lee  and  W.  Jowett  of 
the  Church  Missionary  Society.  It  is  made  up  of  the 
Gospels,  published  in  1824  and  Acts-Revelation  pub- 
lished in  1829,  with  general  title.  With  title-page 
also  in  Amharic. 

 Novum  Testamentum  Domini  Nostri 

et  Salvatoris  Jesu  Christi  in  linguam  Am- 
haricam vertit  Abu-Rumi  Habessinus.  Novo 
editio  cum  levibus  variationibus  in  publicum 
edita  per  Carolum  Henricum  Blumhardt... 
Londini:  Typis  Guilielmi  Mavori  Watts  im- 
pensis Societatis  ad  Scripturam  sacram 
propagandam  in  Britannia  et  apud  exteras 
gentes  constitute,  1852.  204  1.  8°.     *  OEE 

With  second  title-page  (in  red  and  black)  in 
Amharic. 

Bieber,  Friedrich  J.  Beitrage  zu  einem 
erotischen  Lexikon  der  Abessinier  (Am- 
hara),  Galla  und  Kaffitscho.  (Anthro- 
pophyteia.  Leipzig,  1908.  4°.  Bd.  5,  p.  18- 
24.) 

Bunyan,  John.  John  Bunyan's  Pilgrim's 
progress.  In  Amharic.  Translated  by  Gebra 
Georgis  Terfe...  Carried  through  the 
press  by  John  Martin  Flad...  St.  Chris- 
chona: Printed... at  the  joint  expense  of  the 
Ev.  Forsterland  Stiftelsens,  The  Religious 
Tract  Society,  and  The  London  Society  for 
Promoting  Christianity  Among  the  Jews, 
1892.  3  p.l.,  168  p.,  front,  (port.)  illus.  12°. 

*  NEH 

Cerulli,  Enrico.  Canti  popolari  amarici. 
(Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti: 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


64 

Amharic  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche.  Roma,  1916.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  25,  p. 
563-658.)  *  ER 

Contains  112  numbers.    Text,  translation,  notes. 

Contents:  Canti  storici  (1.  Lotte  contro  gli  Ital- 
iani.  2.  Lotte  contro  i  Dervisci.  3.  Lotte  contro  i 
Galla  ed  il  Kaffa.  4.  Lotte  civile  abissine.  5.  Canti 
in  lode  di  grandi  personaggi).  Canti  di  caccia  (1. 
Canto  dell'  uccisore  di  leoni.  2.  Canto  dell'  uccisore 
di  elefanti.  3.  Canto  dell'  uccisore  del  rinoceronte. 
4.  Canto  dell'  uccisore  di  ippopotami.  5.  Canto  dell' 
uccisore  di  buffali)^  Canti  di  guerra.  Canti  di 
amore.  Canti  nuziali.  Canti  religiosi  e  spirituali. 
Canti  varii.  Indice  dei  vocaboli  nuovi  non  contentiti 
nel  Dizionario  amarico  del  Guidi.  Indice  dei  nomi 
proprii  di  persona. 

See  also  "Correzioni  ed  aggiunte,"  p.  1293. 

 Nuove  idee  nell'  Etiopia  e  nuova  let- 

teratura  amarica.  (Oriente  moderno.  Roma, 
1926.  4°.  anno  6,  p.  166-173.)  *  OAA 

 La  poesia  popolare  amarica.  (Societa 

africana  d'ltalia.  Bollettino.  Napoli,  1916. 
8°.  anno  35,  p.  172-179.)  BWO 

With  Italian  translations  of  a  few  specimens. 

 Una  raccolta  amarica  di  canti  funebri. 

(Rivisti  degli  studi  orientali.  Roma,  1925. 
8°.  v.  10,  p.  265-280.)  *  OAA 

Contains  thirty-eight  songs  of  mourning,  sixteen 
of  which  are  taken  from  Heruy  Walda  Sellase's 
Ya-leqso  zema  qetem,  published  in  Addis  Ababa  in 
1918. 

Chaine,  Marius.  La  poesie  chez  les  fLthi- 
opiens.  Poesie  amharique.  (Revue  de 
l'Orient  chretien.  Paris,  1920/21.  8°.  serie 
3,  tome  2,  p.  306^326,  401-425.)         *  OAA 

Cohen,  Marcel  Samuel  Raphael.  Couplets 
amhariques  du  Choa.  (Journal  asiatique. 
Paris,  1924.  8°.  tome  205,  p.  1-100.)   *  OAA 

Preambule.  Bibliographic  Note  sur  la  poesie  et  la 
musique.  Couplets  publies,  traduits  et  commentes. 
Chants  d'oiseaux.  Index  des  faits  linguistiques.  In- 
dex des  mots.    Complements  et  corrections. 

Reviewed  in  Oriente  moderno  (bv  Enrico  Cerulli), 
Roma,  1926,  anno  6,  p.  186-187,  *OAA. 

  Jeux  abyssins.    (Journal  asiatique. 

Paris,  1911.  8°.  serie  10,  tome  18,  p.  463- 
497.)  *  OAA 

  La  naissance  d'une  litterature  im- 

primee  en  amharique.  (Journal  asiatique. 
Paris,  1925.  8°.  tome  206,  p.  348-363.) 

*OAA 

 Notes  sur  des  verbes  et  des  adjectifs 

amhariques.  (Societe  de  linguistique  de  Paris. 
Memoires.  Paris,  1911.  8°.  tome  17,  p.  251- 
265.)  RAA 

1.  Sur  quelques  formations  verbales  dependant  de 
conditions  phonetiques.   2.  Sur  des  adjectifs  intensifs. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Racconti  e  canti 
bileni.  (International  Congress  of  Ori- 
entalists, 14th,  Alger,  1905.  Actes.  Paris, 
1907.  8°.  section  4,  p.  331-394.)         *  OAA 

Text  only,  in  Ethiopic  characters. 

p.  357-364:  Racconti  in  amarico:  (1)  Incursione 
di  Abissini  del  Dembelas  fra  i  Bogos.  (2)  Contese 
fra  i  Bileni  Ad  Hadembes  e  i  Maria.  (3)  Incursione 


del  Beni  Amer,  degli  Algheden,  dei  Baria,  degli 
Halenga  e  dei  Sabderat.  (4)  Contese  dei  Bileni 
Sucuneiti  e  Ad  Hadembes  coi  Begiuc  e  congli  Ad 
Temariam.  (5)  Turchi  ed  Abissini.  (6)  Incursione 
degli  Abissini.  (7)  Missione  del  padre  Giovanni 
Stella.    (8)  Genealogie  Bogos. 

_  Corso,  Raffaele.  Proverbi  giuridici  abis- 
sini. (Rivista  italiana  di  sociologia.  Roma, 
1920.  4°.  anno  24,  p.  150-162.)  SA 

The  proverbs  are  in  transliteration  and  translation. 

Eadie,  John  Inglis.  An  Amharic  reader. 
Cambridge:  University  Press,  1924.  4  p.l., 
278  p.  8°.  *OEI 

Contents:  Stories.  Descriptive  essays.  Recipes. 
Miscellaneous.    Proclamations.    Poetry.  Letters. 

The  subject  matter  was  collected  in  Addis  Abeba  in 
1913  from  literate  Amharas. 

Reviewed  in  Journal  of  the  Society  of  Oriental 
Research,  Toronto,  1926,  v.  10,  p.  316-317,  *OAA. 

Faitlovitch,  Jacques.  Une  lettre  am- 
harique des  Falachas  ou  Juifs  d'Abyssinie. 
(Revue  semitique.  Paris,  1905.  8°.  tome  14, 
p.  92-94.)  *  OAA 

  Nouveaux  proverbes  abyssins.  (Ri- 
vista degli  studi  orientali.  Roma,  1909.  8°. 
v.  2,  p.  757-766.)  *  OAA 

Transliterated  and  translated. 

  Yahabasa  tarat.   Proverbes  abyssins 

traduits,  expliques  et  annotes.  Paris  [Rome, 
printed].-  Paul  Geuthner,  1907.  86  p.  8°. 

*  OEI 

_  120  proverbs  are  given.  The  introduction  deals 
with  the  bibliography  of  the  subject  and  with  the 
territorial  expansion  of  the  Abyssinian  dialects. 

Reviewed  in  Journal  of  the  African  Society,  Lon- 
don, 1908,  v.  7,  p.  328-329,  BKA;  Revue  des  etudes 
ethnographiques  (bv  C.  Mondon-Vidailhet) ,  Paris, 
1908,  tome  1,  p.  122-123,  QOA;  in  same  (by  Rene 
Basset),  p.  171-173;  Orientalistische  Litcratur-Zeitung 
(by  Eugen  Mittwoch),  Berlin,  1908,  Bd.  11,  p.  414- 
416,  *OAA;  Journal,  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  London, 
1908,  p.  280,  *OAA. 

Gabru,  Kantiba.  Y amarinna  sawasew  mari 
ka-Kantlba  Gabru  Tasafa.  A  short  guide  of 
the  practical  Amharic  grammar  by  Kentiba 
Gcbrou...  Addis  Ababa,  1915.  87  p.  12°. 

In  Amharic.  *OEI 
The  spelling  of  the  author's  name  in  the  English 
title  is  due  to  French  transliteration. 

Gerlach,  Otto  von.  Otto  von  Gerlach's 
Forklaring  ofver  Johannes'  Evangelium, 
ofversatt  pa  amhariska  utaf  B.  P.  Lundahl. 
Utgifven  pa  trycket  af  J.  M.  Flad.  St. 
Chrischona:  Evangeliska  Fosterlans-Stiftel- 
sens-Mission  i  Sverige,  1889.  137  p.  8°. 

Title  also  in  Amharic.  *  OEI 

Gesenius,  Friedrich  Heinrich  Wilhelm. 
Die  amharische  Sprache.  (Ersch  and  Gru- 
ber,  Allgemeine  Encyclopaedic  der  Wis- 
senschaft  und  Kiinste.  Leipzig,  1819.  4°. 
Theil  3,  p.  355-358.)  *  AM 

Ghaleb,  R.  See  under  Raad,  A.,  and  R. 

Ghaleb. 

Ghiorghis,  Kefla,  Dabtara.  See  under 
Guidi,  Ignazio. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHAR1CA 


Amharic  Language  and  Literature ,  continued. 

Girard,  A.  Alphabet  abyssinien.  (Congres 
des  orientalistes  de  Marseille.  Compte- 
rendu  des  travaux.  Marseille,  1876.  8°.  2 
pi.  of  syllabary.)  *  OAA 

  Glossaire  abyssin.  (Congres  des  ori- 
entalistes de  Marseille.  Compte-rendu  des 
travaux.   Marseille,  1876.   8°.   p.  446-454.) 

*OAA 

Grammaire  amarigna,  par  un  missionaire 
Lazariste.  Addis-Abeba:  Imprimerie  Alexis 
Desvages,  1923.  vi,  164  p.,  2  1.  8°.    *  OEI 

Preface  signed:  J.  B. 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Documenti  amarina. 
(Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Atti.  Rendi- 
conti:  Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e 
filologiche.  Roma,  1891.  4°.  serie  4,  v.  7, 
p.  285-300.)  *  ER 

Contents:  1.  Lettera  dell'  imperatore  Giovanni  iv. 
a  S.M.  il  re  Umberto  I.  2.  Lettera  dell'  imperatore 
Giovanni    iv.    al    sig.    G.    Branchi    console  d'ltalia. 

3.  Lettera  del  re  Takla  Haimanot  a  S.  M.  Umberto  I. 

4.  Lettera  del  re  Takla  Haimanot  a  S.  M.  Umberto  i. 

5.  Lettera  del  re  Menilek  II.  a  S.  M.  Umberto  i 

6.  Lettera  del  re  Menilek  II.  a  S.  M.   Umberto  I. 

7.  Lettera  del  re  Menilek  a  S.  M.  Umberto  i.  8. 
Lettera  del  re  Menilek  a  S.  M.  Umberto  i.  9.  Bando 
del  re  Menilek. 

  La  forma  intensiva  nel  verbo  ama- 

rico.  (Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Giornale. 
Roma,  1889.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  179-181.)     *  OAA 

  Grammatica  elementare  della  lingua 

amarina.  2a  edizione.  Roma:  Tipografia 
della  R.  Accademia  dei  Lincei,  1892.  63(1) 
p.  8°.  *OEI 

Teza,  Emilio.  La  Grammatica  amarina 
del  Prof.  Guidi.  (Societa  geografica  italiana. 
Bollettino.  Roma,  1890.  8°.  serie  3,  v.  3,  p. 
879-886.)  KAA 

Guidi,  Ignazio.  Nuovi  proverbi,  strofe  e 
racconti  abissini.  (Societa  asiatica  italiana. 
Giornale.  Roma,  1892.  8°.  v.  6,  p.  3-36.) 

*OAA 

Reviewed  in  Revue  des  traditions  populaircs  (by 
Rene  Basset),  Paris,  1893,  tome  8,  p.  292-293,  ZBA 

  I  popoli  e  le  lingue  di  Abissinia. 

(Nuova  antologia.  Roma,  1887.  8°.  serie  3, 
v.  7,  p.  478-491.)  NNA 

  Proverbi,  strofe  e  favole  abissine. 

(Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Giornale.  Roma, 
1891.  8°.  v.  5,  p.  27-82.)  *  OAA 

Collected  from  Dabtara  Kef  la  Ghiorghis. 

  Proverbi,  strofe  e  racconti  abissini 

tradotti  e  pubblicati  da  Ignazio  Guidi. 
Roma:  Tipografia  della  R.  Accademia  dei 
Lincei,  1894.  v  p.,  1  1.,  131  p.  8°.     *  OEG 

A  reprint  of  his  Proverbi,  strofe,  e  favole  abissini, 
Nuovi  proverbi,  strofe  e  racconti  abissini,  and  Strofe 
e  favole  abissini,  in  one  volume. 

  Strofe  e  brevi  testi  amarici.  (Berlin. 

— Universitat:  Seminar  fur  orientalische 
Sprachen.    Mitteilungen.    Berlin,  1907.  8°. 


65 

Jahrg.  10,  Abt.  2,  Westasiatische  Studien, 
p.  167-184.)  *  OAA 

  Strofe  e  favole  abissine.  (L'Oriente. 

Roma,  1894.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  88-101.)       *  OAA 

With  Italian  translations. 

  Lo  studio  dell'  amarico  in  Europa. 

(International  Congress  of  Orientalists, 
11th,  Paris,  1897.  Actes.  Paris,  1898.  4°. 
section  4,  p.  67-76.)  *  OAA 

 Sulle  coniugazioni  del  verbo  amarico. 

(Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie.  Berlin,  1893. 
8°.  Bd.  8,  p.  245-262.)  *OCL 

 Vocabolario  amarico-italiano.  Roma: 

Casa  editrice  italiana,  1901.  xv,  918  p.  4°. 

*OEI 

Reviewed  in  Revue  de  I'Orient  chretien,  Paris, 
1911,  serie  2,  tome  6,  p.  222,  *OAA. 

Haslr  zanta  mashaf  qediis.  Asmara:  Miss- 
yon  Swedcsc,  1907.  68  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

Short  stories  from  the  Scriptures. 

Isenberg,  Karl  Wilhelm.  Dictionary  of 
the  Amharic  language.  In  two  parts.  Am- 
haric and  English,  and  English  and  Am- 
haric. London:  Printed  for  the  Church 
Missionary  Societv,  1841.  vii,  215(1),  218  p. 
4°.  *OEI 

Alphabetical  table  missing. 

  Grammar  of  the  Amharic  language. 

London:  Printed  for  the  Church  Missionary 
Society,  1842.  6  p.l.,  184  p.,  2  folded  tables. 
8°.  *OEI 

 Regni  Dei  in  terris  historia  amharice. 

Duabus  partibus.  i.  Ilia  quae  populo  Dei 
acciderunt,  inde  Adami  lapsu  ad  Hiero- 
solymitarum  deletionem,  breviter  enarrant. 
ii.  Ecclesiae  Christians  historiam,  a  S.  Joan- 
nis  morte  ad  tempora  nostra,  systematice 
exponit.  Auctore  Carolo  Gulielmo  Isenberg. 
Itertim  recensuit  et  emendavit  Martinus 
Flad.  St.  Chrischona,  1893.  391  p.  8°. 

*OEI 

The  first  edition  was  published  in  London  in  1841 
in  2  v. 

Title  also  in  Amharic. 

Klingenheben,  August.  Amharisch  des 
taglichen  Lebens.  (Zeitschrift  fur  einge- 
borenen  Sprachen.  Berlin,  1921.  8°.  Bd. 
11,  p.  296-305.)  RTA 

1.  Ubersiedelung  nach  Abessinien.  2.  Zollrevision. 
3.  Besuch  beim  Gouverneur  einer  Provinz.  4.  Maul- 
tierkauf.  5.  Eierkauf.  6.  Handel  des  reisenden  Kauf- 
manns  in  Abessinien. 

  Eine  amharische  Form  der  Wieder- 

erkennungsgeschichte  der  Placidas-Le- 
gende.  Mit  folkloristischen  und  linguis- 
tischen  Erlauterungen.  (Zeitschrift  fur 
eingeborenen  Sprachen.  Berlin,  1920.  8°. 
Bd.  10,  p.  181-208.)  RTA 

Kolmodin,  Johan  Adolf.  Abessinische 
Glossen.  (Zeitschrift  fiir  Assyriologie. 
Strassburg,  1910.   8°.   Bd.  24,  p.  301-306.) 

*OCL 

Supplementary  to  Littmann's  article  with  the  same 
title. 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


66 

Amharic  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Lefebvre,  Charlemagne  Theophile,  and 
others.  Voyage  en  Abyssinie  execute  pen- 
dant les  annees  1839-1843...  Paris:  Arthus 
Bertrand  [1845?].  3  v.  8°.  PQM 

v.  3,  p.  306-329:  Vocabulaire  Amarah  (substan- 
tifs,  adjectifs,  verbes,  adverbes). 

Lettera  di  Menilek  n.  [ed.  L.  Traversi.] 
1  facsim.  (Societa  geografica  italiana.  Bol- 
lettino.  Roma,  1892.  8°.  serie  3,  v.  5,  p.  769- 
770.)  KAA 

Lettere  da  Entotto  dell'  imperatore  Meni- 
lek e  del  dott.  L.  Traversi.  (Societa  geo- 
grafica italiana.  Bollettino.  Roma,  1891.  8°. 
serie  3,  v.  4,  p.  21-23.)  KAA 

In  Amharic. 

Littmann,  Enno.  Abyssinian  apocalypses. 
(American  journal  of  Semitic  languages  and 
literatures.  Chicago,  1903.  8°.  v.  19,  p.  83- 
95.)  *OBC 

Written  by  Kidana  Wald,  a  young  deacon  of  Shoa 

  Die    altamharischen  Kaiserlieder. 

Rede,  gehalten  am  27.  Januar  1914  zur  Feier 
des  Geburtstage  Sr.  Majestat  des  Kaisers 
in  der  Aula  der  Kaiser  Wilhelms-Universi- 
tat,  Strassburg,  von  Dr.  Enno  Littmann... 
Strassburg:  J.  H.  Ed.  Heitz  (Heitz  &  Miin- 
del),  1914.  36  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

Translation,  notes,  and  bibliography  of  the  songs 

  Amharische  Tanzlieder  der  Galla. 

(Zeitschrift  fur  Semitistik  und  verwandte 
Gebiete.  Leipzig,  1926.  8°.  Bd.  4,  p.  300- 
310.)  *OAA 

  Semitische  Volkspoesie  in  Abessin- 

ien.  (Auszug.)  (International  Congress  of 
Orientalists,  13th,  Hamburg,  1912.  Ver- 
handlungen.  Leiden,  1904.  8°.  p.  271- 
274.)  *  OAA 

 See  also  under  Zaneb. 

Ludolf,  Hiob.  Mazgaba  qalat  ba'amharin- 
na,  seu  Lexicon  Amharico-Latinum  cum  in- 
dice  Latino  copioso  inquirendis  vocabulis 
Amharicis  in  hoc  opere  contentis.  Autore 
Iobo  Ludolfo.  Francofurti  ad  Moenum: 
Apud  Johannem  David  Zunnerum,  cio  ioc 
xcvm.  2  p.L,  103  cols.,  8  1.  f °.  f* 

Title  in  red  and  black. 

  Mashafa    temherte    zalesana  'Am- 

hara,  seu  grammatica  linguae  Amharicae 
quae  vernacula  est  Habessinorum  in  usum 
eorum  qui  cum  antiqua  hac  et  praeclara  na- 
tione  Christiana  conversari  volent,  edita. 
Plura  habes  in  praefatione.  Autore  Iobo  Lu- 
dolfo. Francofurti  ad  Moenum:  Prostat 
apud  Johannem  David  Zunnerum,  cio  ioc 
xcvm.  4  p.l.,  59(1)  p.  f°.  ft*OEC 

Title  in  red  and  black. 

The  first  Amharic  grammar  published  in  Europe. 

Lundahl,  Pehr.  See  under  Yagubae  maz- 
murat. 


Mahler,  Ludwig.  Praktische  Grammatik 
der  amharischen  (abessinischen)  Sprache. 
Wien:  Georg  Szelinski,  1906.  4  p.l.,  243(1) 
p.  8°.  *OEI 

Reviewed  in  Litcrarisches  Zentralblatt  (by  Recken- 
dorf :  "Die  Arbeit  des  Verf.  wird  aber  beeintrachtigt 
durch  eine  grosse  Zahl  von  sinnstorenden  Druck- 
fehlern,  durch  unklare  Formulierungen,  Fliichtig 
keiten  und  iiberhaupt  durch  den  Mangel  an  wissen- 
schaftlichen  Voraussetzungen") ,  Leipzig,  1906,  Jahrg. 
57,  col.  1008,  NAA;  Orientalistische  Literatur-Zeitung 
(by  Eugen  Mittwoch),  Berlin,  1906,  Bd.  9,  col.  650- 
652,  *OAA;  Revue  de  I' Orient  chretien  (by  Sylvain 
Grebaut:  "Le  grammaire  de  M.  L.  Mahler,  necessaire 
au  missionaire  et  au  voyageur,  rendra  aussi  de 
precieux  services  au  philologue.  Sa  diffusion  complete 
et  son  succes  sont  a  prevoir"),  Paris,  1909,  serie  2, 
tome  4,  p.  220-221,   *  OAA. 

Massaja,  Guglielmo.  Lectiones  gram- 
maticales  pro  missionariis  qui  addiscere 
volunt  linguam  Amaricam  seu  vulgarem 
Abyssiniae,  nec  non  et  linguam  Oromonicam 
seu  populorum  Galla  nuncupatorum. 
Parisiis:  Excusum  in  Typographeo  imperial, 
1867.   2  p.l.,  xix,  501  p.   8°.  *  OEI 

"Un  ouvrage  sans  caractere  scientifique,  ou  l'etude 
du  galla  se  mele  a  celle  de  l'amharique.  Ce  livre 
contient  dans  ses  notes  beaucoup  de  renseignements 
sur  1' Abyssinie  telle^  qu'elle  etait  alors.  Le  texte 
abyssin,  mal  corrige  fourmille  d'erreurs,  typogra- 
phiques."  —  Mondon-Vidailhet. 

Mazmur  salam.  Asmara:  Missyon  Swe- 
dese,  1907.  134  p.  16°.  *  OEI 

Hymn-book  in  Amharic. 

Mittwoch,  Eugen.  Abessinische  Erzah- 
lungen  und  Fabeln.  Amharische  Texte. 
Ubersetzt  und  erklart  von  Eugen  Mittwoch. 
(Berlin.  —  Universitat:  Seminar  fiir  ori- 
entalische  Sprachen.  Mitteilungen.  Berlin, 
1911.  8°.  Jahrg.  14,  Zweite  Abteilung, 
Westasiatische  Studien,  p.  101-157.)  *  OAA 

Amharic  text  and  German  translation  and  notes. 
At  the  end  is  a  list  of  words  not  found  in  the 
dictionaries  of  Abbadie  and  Guidi. 

  Abessinische  Kinderspiele.  Am- 
harische Texte.  Ubersetzt  und  erklart. 
(Berlin.  —  Universitat:  Seminar  fiir  ori- 
entalische  Sprachen.  Mitteilungen.  Berlin, 
1910.  8°.  Jahrg.  13,  Zweite  Abteilung, 
Westasiatische  Studien,  p.  107-140.)  *  OAA 

Obtained  from  Aleka  Taye,  Abyssinian  teacher  in 
the  Seminar.  The  description  is  given  in  Amharic 
accompanied  by  a  German  translation. 

  Ein  amharischer  Text  iiber  Muham- 

med  und  die  Ausbreitung  des  Islams  in 
Abessinien.  (In:  Festschrift  Eduard  Sachau 
zum  siebzigsten  Geburtstage...  Berlin: 
Verlag  von  Georg  Reimer,  1915.  4°.  p.  444- 
451.)  f*OAC 

  Der    deutsch-athiopische  Freund- 

schafts-  und  Handelsvertrag.  Amharischer 
Text  mit  deutscher  Ubersetzung  und  An- 
merkungen.  (In:  Oriental  studies  published 
in  commemoration  of  the  fortieth  anniver- 
sary of  Paul  Haupt  as  director  of  the  Ori- 
ental Seminary  of  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity.  Baltimore,  1926.  8°.   p.  454-461.) 

*OAC 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


Amharic  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Mittzvoch,  Eugen,  continued. 

  Dochanhoi  —  die    amharische  Be- 

zeichnung  fiir  "Majestat."  (Zeitschrift  fur 
Assyriologie.  Strassburg,  1911.  8°.  Bd.  25, 
p.  281-286.)  *OCL 

  Excerpte  aus  dem  Koran  in  am- 

harischer  Sprache.  (Berlin.  —  Universitat: 
Seminar  fiir  orientalische  Sprachen.  Mit- 
teilungen.  Berlin,  1906.  8°.  Jahrg.  9,  Zweite 
Abteilung,  Westasiatische  Studien,  p.  111- 
147.)  *  OAA 

A  collection  of  passages  from  the  Koran  translated 
into  Amharic  for  the  use  of  native  scholars. 

The  Arabic  texts  were  first  transliterated  into 
Amharic  characters  and  then  interpreted  in  the  Am- 
haric language,  not  always  correctly. 

  Literarisches  Morgenrot  in  Abes- 

sinien.  (Deutsche  Literaturzeitung.  Berlin, 
1924.   4°.  Jahrg.  41,  col.  1869-1874.)  NAA 

  Proben    aus    amharischen  Volks- 

munde.  (Berlin.  —  Universitat:  Seminar 
fiir  orientalische  Sprachen.  Mitteilungen, 
Berlin,  1907.  8°.  Jahrg.  10,  Abteilung  2, 
Westasiatische  Studien,  p.  185-241.)  *  OAA 

The  collection,  consisting  of  riddles,  jokes,  proverbs, 
fables,  poems,  stories,  etc.,  was  obtained  from 
Mamehher  Aleka  Taye,  Abyssinian  teacher^  at_  the 
Seminar,  "qui  nous  etonne  par  sa  robuste  memoire." 
The  different  shades  of  pronunciation  are  very 
carefully  noted. 

Reviewed  in  Journal,  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  Lon- 
don, 1908,  p.  280-281,  *OAA;  Revue  semitique  (by 
J.  Halevy),  Paris,  1908,  tome  16,  p.  107-108,  *OAA; 
Luzac's  Oriental  list,  London,  1909,  v.  19,  p.  11, 
*  OAB;  Orientalistische  Liter atur-Zeitung  (by  H. 
Grimme),  Berlin,  1908,  Jahrg.  11,  col.  495-496, 
VOAA. 

Mondon-Vidailhet,  Frangois  Marie  Casi- 
mir.  Grammaire  de  langue  abyssine  (am- 
harique).  Paris:  Imprimerie  nationale,  1898. 
xxiv  p.,  1  1.,  301  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

  Manuel  pratique  de  langue  abyssine 

(amharique)  a  l'usage  des  explorateurs  et 
des  commergants.  Paris:  Imprimerie  na- 
tionale, 1891.  201  p.   12°.  *OEI 

"Questo  manuale,  dice  l'Autore,  e  'essentiellement 
pratique,'  e  quindi  gli  si  perdoneranno  gli  errori  della 
parte  grammaticale.  .  .  Ma  quello  che  anche  nella 
parte  puramente  pratica  e  censurabile,  sono  i  molti 
errori  di  ogni  specie,  spesso  ribaditi  nella  trascrizione." 

  Proverbes   abyssins.    (Journal  asi- 

atique.  Paris,  1904.  8°.  serie  10,  tome  4,  p. 
487-495.)  *  OAA 

Text  and  translation. 

Murray,  Alexander.  Vocabulary  of  the 
Amharic,  Falashan,  Gafat,  Agow  and 
Tcheretch  Agow  languages.  (In  his:  Ac- 
count of  the  life  and  writings  of  James 
Bruce...  Edinburgh,  1808.  4°.  p.  433-442.) 

t  AN 


67 

Noeldeke,  Theodor.  Zar.  (Deutsche  mor- 
genlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1890.  8°.  Bd.  44,  p.  701.)      *  OAA 

Perruchon,  Jules.  Apergu  grammatical  de 
la  langue  amharique  ou  amarinna  comparee 
avec  l'ethiopien.  (Le  Museon.  Louvain, 
1898-99.  8°.  tome  17,  p.  287-296;  tome  18, 
p.  74-90,  195-202.)  ZAA 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz.  Die 
amharische  Sprache.  Halle:  Verlag  der 
Buchhandlung  des  Waisenhauses,  1879.  xiii 
(i),  523  p.  4°.  f*OEI 

Raad,  A.,  and  R.  Ghaleb.  La  cle  de  la 
conversation  abyssine.  Vocabulaire,  phrases, 
conversations,  verbes  et  correspondance  a 
l'usage  des  nouveaux  amharisants.  Bey- 
routh (Syrie) :  Imprimerie  catholique,  1910. 
288  p.  16°.  *OEI 

Ragusa-Moleti,  G.  Gli  Abissini  all'  espo- 
sizione  nazionale  di  Palermo.  (Archivio  per 
lo  studio  delle  tradizioni  popolari.  Palermo, 
1891.   8°.   v.  10,  p.  419-425.)  ZBA 

Gives  Italian  translations  of  two  love  songs  and 
one  war  song. 

Ronciglione,  Angelo  da.  Manuale  am- 
arico-italiano-francese .  .  .  Roma:  Casa  edi- 
trice  italiana,  1912.  xvi,  416  p.,  1  1.  12°. 
( Italv.  —  Direzione  Centrale  degli  Affari 
Coloniali.)  •  *  OEI 

Salt,  Henry.  A  voyage  to  Abyssinia,  and 
travels  into  the  interior  of  that  country... 
London:  F.  C.  &  J.  Rivington,  1814.  4°. 

f  BLL 

"Vocabularies  of  the  Agow,  Tigre,  and  Amharic," 
Appendix  I,  p.  xviii-xxiii. 

Svenson,  K.  Bcrhan  bamangada.  St. 
Chrischona :  Printed  at  the  Mission  Press, 
1893.  368  p.  16°.  *  OEI 

Amharic  translation  of  his  "Licht  auf  den  taglichen 
Pfad." 

Traversi,  L.  See  under  Lettera. 

Walda  Maryam.  Chronique  de  Theodoros 
ii.  roi  des  rois  d'fithiopie  (1853-1868), 
d'apres  un  manuscrit  original.  Traduction 
[by  C.  Mondon-Vidailhet].  Paris:  Librairie 
orientale  et  americaine  [1909].  xiv  p.,  1  1.. 
96  p.  12°.  *  OEF  (Mondon) 

p.  81-96  are  notes  by  the  translator. 

The  author,  Alaqa  Walda  Maryam,  was  a  native 
of  Mehwy  Kolla  in  Shoa. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  semitique  (by  J.  Halevy), 
Paris,  1905,  tome  13,  p.  288,  *OAA. 

Weld-Bluxdell,  Herbert  Joseph.  History 
of  King  Theodore.  (African  Societv.  Jour- 
nal. London,  1907.  8°.  v.  6,  p.  12-42.)  BKA 

Translated  from  the  text  by  Alaqa.  Walda  Maryam, 
and  collated  with  the  version  edited  by  M.  Mondon- 
Vidailhet. 


68 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Amharic  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Yagubae  mazmurat...  Tdtama  bakrlshond 
babdsel  atagab  bdlach  bamissydn  mdhatamyd 
kakrestos  ledat  bahoald  1881  amat.  80  p.  16° 

*OEI 

Part  I.  A  collection  of  hymns  translated  by  Peter 
Lundahl.   With  musical  notation. 

Zaneb.  The  chronicle  of  King  Theodore 
of  Abyssinia,  edited  from  the  Berlin  manu- 
script with  translation  and  notes  by  Enno 
Littmann.  Part  i.  Amharic  text.  Princeton, 
N.  J.:  The  University  Library,  1902.  vii  p., 
1  1.,  47  p.  f°.  ft*  OEI 

One  of  twenty-five  copies  on  large  paper. 

Printed  in  Rome  at  the  press  of  the  Casa  Editrice 
Italiana. 

This  chronicle  "is  one  of  the  very  few  known  texts 
in  native  Amharic  prose,  and  thus  furnishes  authentic 
material  for  the  study  of  that  language,  as  it  is 
actually  spoken...  Its  contents  are  of  considerable 
interest  to  the  historian  who  desires  to  make  himself 


acquainted  with  the  events  previous  to  the  English- 
Abyssinian  war  of  1868." 

Reviewed  in  Journal  asiatique  (by  C.  Mondon- 
Vidailhet),  Paris,  1902,  serie  9,  tome  20,  p.  334- 
336,  *OAA;  Deutsche  Literaturzeitung  (by  F.  Prae- 
torius),  Leipzig,  1902,  Jahrg.  23,  col.  2392-2393, 
NAA. 

  Geschichte   Abessiniens   von  dem 

Jahr  7281  nach  Erschaffung  der  Welt  (1780 
n.  Chr.)  bis  auf  die  Zeit  des  Theodoros  oder 
das  Jahr  7345  (1854  n.  Chr.),  verfasst  von 
Debtera  Saneb,  einem  abessinischen  Gelehr- 
ten  und  Schreiber  des  Konigs.  Aus  dem 
Amharischen  von  F.  [sic]  M.  Flad.  (In: 
Johann  Martin  Flad,  Zwolf  Jahre  in  Abes- 
sinien.  Basel:  C.  F.  Spittler,  1869.  12°. 
p.  157-176.)  *PGK 

Mittwoch,  Eugen.  Bemerkungen  zur  am- 
harischen Chronik  Konig  Theodors  von 
Abessinien.  (Orientalistische  Literatur- 
Zeitung.  Berlin,  1907.  4°.  Jahrg.  10,  col.  36- 
38.)  t*  OAA 


Gurague  Language  and  Literature 

The  dialects  of  Gurague  "are  markedly  divergent  from  one  another  and  have  assumed 
a  highly  peculiar  form,  placed  as  they  are  in  the  midst  of  entirely  alien  idioms,  yet  give 
unmistakable  signs  of  an  origin  either  from  Amharic  or  a  dialect  extremely  close  to  Am- 
haric." —  Noldeke. 

"Le  gourague  represente  l'avance  le  plus  meridionale  du  semitique  abyssin,  attestant 
une  colonisation  ancienne  non  datee  exactement,  que  l'invasion  galla  du  xve-xvie  s.  a  inter- 
rompue  pour  quatre  siecles.  On  n'en  possede  pas  de  documents  anterieurs  au  xixe  siecle." 
—  Cohen. 


Cecchi,  Antonio.  Note  grammaticali  e 
vocaboli  della  lingua  ciaha  (guraghe)  rac- 
colti  dall'  ing.  G.  Chiarini  ed  ordinati  da 
Antonio  Cecchi.  (In:  Antonio  Cecchi,  Da 
Zeila  alle  frontiere  del  Caff  a.  Roma:  Er- 
manno  Loescher  &  Co.,  1887.  8°.  v.  3,  p. 
469-484.)  BLM 

Mondon-Vidailhet,  Francois  Marie  Casi- 
mir.  Les  dialectes  ethiopiens  du  gouraghe. 
(Revue  semitique.  Paris,  1900-01.  8°.  an- 
nee  8,  p.  168-175,  266-274,  370-377;  annee  9, 
p.  64-70.)  *  OAA 

Praetorius  (Die  Amharische  Sprache)  "considere 


le  Gouraghe  comme  un  dialecte  amharique.  Nous 
avons  dit  qu'il  n'y  avait  pas  a  proprement  parler  de 
langue  gouraghee,  mais  de  dialectes  gouraghes.  Le 
specimen  cite  par  Pr.  semble  avoir  ete  emprunte  au 
dialecte  des  Aymallel." 

  Etudes  sur  le  guragie.    Mises  en 

ordre,  completees  et  publiees  d'apres  ses 
notes  par  Erich  Weinzinger.  Wien:  Alfred 
Holder,  1913.  xi,  119  p.  12°.  (Kaiserliche 
Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  —  Sprachen- 
kommission.  [Schriften.]  Bd.  5.) 

*  O  AC  p.v.88 


Harari  Language  and  Literature 


The  Harari  is  spoken  only  in  the  town  of  Harar,  being  surrounded  on  all  sides  by 
Galla.  It  is  probably  a  dialect  of  Amharic  much  overlaid  with  borrowings  from  Galla, 
Somali,  etc. 


Beke,  Charles  Tilstone.  On  the  languages 
and  dialects  of  Abyssinia  and  the  countries 
to  the  south.  (Philological  Society.  Pro- 
ceedings. London,  1846.  8°.  v.  2,  p.  89- 
107.)  RAA 

With  thirteen  vocabularies,  the  last  being  the 
"Harrargie   (Hurrur),"  i.e.,  Harari. 


Bricchetti-Robecchi,  Luigi.  Lingue  par- 
late  somali,  galla  e  harari.  Note  e  studi 
raccolti  ed  ordinati  nell'  Harar.  (Societa 
geografica  italiana.  Bollettino.  Roma,  1890. 
8°.  serie  3,  v.  3,  p.  257-271,  380-391,  689- 
708.)  KAA 

Comparative  vocabularies. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


69 


Harari  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Bricchetti-Robecchi,  Luigi,  continued. 

  Note  sulle   Hngue   parlate  somali, 

galla  e  harrari  raccolte  ed  ordinate  nell' 
Harrar.  (Societa  africana  d'ltalia.  Bollet- 
tino.  Napoli,  1895-97.  8°.  anno  14,  p.  48-60, 
93-99,  123-130,  156-163,  217-224;  anno  15, 
p.  15-22,  57-64,  92-99,  133-140,  158-165; 
anno  16,  p.  24-27,  48-55,  121-128,  140-155, 
170-174.)  BWO 

The  material  is  arranged  in  three  parallel  columns. 

Contents:  Articolo.  Nome.  Genere  dei  nomi.  Del 
numero  dei  nomi.  Declinazione  dei  nomi.  Pronomi. 
Declinazione  dei  pronomi  personali.  Pronomi  pos- 
sessivi.  Pronomi  dimonstrativi.  Pronomi  relativi. 
Pronomi  interrogativi.  Pronomi  assoluti  ed  inter- 
rogativi.  Pronomi  indefiniti.  Addiettivi.  Grado  di 
significazione  degli  aggettivi.  Avverbo.  Numeri  car- 
dinali.  Idiotismi.  Espressioni  famigliari.  Verbi 
ausiliarii.  Conjugazione  di  verbi  somali  ed  harrari. 
Conjugazione  di  verbi  somali.  Conjugazione  di  verbi 
harrari.   Esercizii  sui  verbi  somali  ed  harrari. 

  Testi   nelle   lingue  harar  e  galla. 

(Reale  accademia  dei  Lincei.  Rendiconti : 
Classe  di  scienze  morali,  storiche  e  filo- 
logiche.  Roma,  1892.  8°.  serie  5,  v.  1,  p.  254- 
263.)  *ER 

Songs  in  transliteration  and  Italian  translation. 

Burton,  Sir  Richard  Francis.  Outline  and 
vocabulary  of  the  Harari  language.  (In  his: 
First  footsteps  in  East  Africa;  or,  An  ex- 
ploration of  Harar.  London:  Longman 
[etc.],  1856.  8°.  p.  509-582.)  BLM 

 (In:  Same,  Memorial  edition. 

London:  Tylston  and  Edwards,  1894.  8°. 
v.  2,  p.  149-205.)  BLM 

Conti-Rossini,  Carlo.  Testi  in  lingua 
harari.  (Rivista  degli  studi  orientali.  Roma, 
1919/20.  8°.  v.  8,  p.  401-425.)  *  OAA 

With  interlinear  Italian  translation. 

Littmann,  Enno.  Bemerkungen  zu  den 
neuen  Harari-Texten.  (Deutsche  morgen- 
landische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift.  Leip- 
zig, 1921.  8°.  Bd.  75,  p.  21-36.)         *  OAA 


  Harari-Studien.     (Zeitschrift  fur 

Semitistik  und  verwandte  Gebiete.  Leipzig, 
1922.  8°.  Bd.  1,  p.  38-84.)  *  OAA 

i.  Prosaische  Texte.    n.  Poetische  Texte. 

These  studies  are  based  on  the  texts  contained 
in  the  works  of  Burton,  Paulitschke,  and  Bricchetti- 
Robecchi. 

  Die  Partikel  ma  im  Harari.  (Zeit- 
schrift fur  Assvriologie.  Berlin  und  Leip- 
zig, 1921.  8°.  Bd.  33,  p.  103-122.)     *  OCL 

Mondon-Vidailhet,  Francois  Marie  Casi- 
mir.  Etude  sur  le  harari.  (Journal  asiatique. 
Paris,  1901-02.  8°.  serie  9,  v.  18,  p.  401- 
429;  v.  19,  p.  5-50.)  *  OAA 

  La  langue  harari  et  les  dialectes 

ethiopiens  du  gouraghe.  Paris:  Imprimerie 
nationale,  1902.  2  p.l.,  119  p.  8°. 

*  OEI  p.v.l 

Reprinted  from  Journal  asiatique  and  the  Revue 
scmitique. 

Mueller,  Friedrich.  tiber  die  Harari- 
Sprache  im  ostlichen  Afrika.  (Kaiserliche 
Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  Sitzungsbe- 
richte:  Philosophisch-historische  Classe. 
Wien,  1863.  8°.  Bd.  44,  p.  601-613.)    *  EF 

 Wien:  Karl  Gerold's  Sohn,  1864. 

1  p.l.,  15  p.  8°.  *  OEI  p.v.l 

Paulitschke,  Philipp.  Beitrage  zur  Ethno- 
graphic und  Anthropologic  der  Somal,  Galla 
und  Harari.  Leipzig:  Eduard  Baldamus, 
1888.  4  p.l.,  105(1)  p.,  1  map,  40  pi.  2.  Aus- 
gabe.  f°.  ft  QPE 

Die  Harari.  p.  65-96.  (Sprachliches,  p.  77-96: 
Glossar.  Komparation  der  Adjectiva.  Pronomina. 
Numeralia.  Textesprobe). 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz.  Ue- 
ber  die  Sprache  von  Harar.  (Deutsche  mor- 
genlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1869.  8°.  Bd.  23,  p.  453-472.)  * 

*OAA 

Salt,  Henry.  Vocabularies  of  the  Hurrur 
and  southern  Galla  dialects.  (In  his:  A  voy- 
age to  Abyssinia  and  travels  into  the  interior 
of  that  country.  London,  1814.  4°.  Ap- 
pendix i,  p.  vi-x.)  f  BLL 


Tigre  Language  and  Literature 


Beurmann,  Moritz  von.  Glossar  der 
Tigre-Sprache,  wie  sie  bei  Massaua  ge- 
sprochen  wird,  gesammelt  von  M.  von  Beur- 
mann, bearbeitet  und  mit  einer  gramma- 
tischen  Skizze  und  einen  Lebensabriss  des 
Sammlers,  herausgegeben  von  Dr.  A.  Merx. 
Leipzig:  J.  C.  Hinrichs,  1868.  1  p.l.,  33-111 
p.  8°.  *OEI 

Reprinted  from:  Jahresbericht  des  Vereins  von 
Freunden  der  Erdkunde  zu  Leipzig. 

  Vocabulary  of  the  Tigre  language 

written  down  by  Moritz  von  Beurmann. 


Published  with  a  grammatical  sketch  by  Dr. 
A.  Merx.  Halle:  Buchhandlung  des  Wais- 
enhauses,  1868.  viii,  78  p.,  1  1.  8°.        *  OEI 

Reviewed  in  Zeitschrift  der  Deutschen  morgen- 
Vdndischen  Gesellschaft  (by  F.  Praetorius),  Leipzig, 
1868,  Bd.  22,  p.  746-748,  *OAA. 

Bible.  —  New  Testament.  II  Nuovo  Tes- 
tamento  in  Tigre.  Tradotto  dal  greco,  bas- 
andosi  specialmente  sull'  ultima  versione 
inglese  ed  anche  etiopica,  da  Carlo  Gustavo 
Roden,  coll'  aiuto  dei  maestri  indigeni 
Twoldo  Medhen,  Davide  Emanuele  ed  altri. 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


70 

Tigre  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Pubblicato  per  cura  della  Societa  evangelica 
nazionale  svedese.  Asmara:  Stampato  nella 
tipografia  della  Missione  svedese,  1902. 
5(1),  528  p.  8°.  *OEI 

This  version,  which  is  almost  a  new  translation, 
is  a  thorough  revision  of  the  translation  completed 
in  1889. 

The  Avvertimento  on  reverse  of  title  by  K.  G. 
Roden,  is  dated  Asmara,  Aug.,  1902. 

The  text  is  printed  in  paragraphs. 

There  is  an  appendix  (p.  489-528)  which  includes 
a  liturgical  table,  a  history  of  the  Passion,  a  table 
of  a  Gospel  harmony,  a  short  glossary,  and  a  list  of 
errata. 

Bible.  —  New  Testament:  Gospels.  The 
four  Gospels  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ,  translated  into  the  Tigre-language 
by  the  Abyssinian  Debtera  Matteos,  and 
revised  by  the  deceased  Rev.  Mr.  Isenberg 
...  St.  Chrishona  [Sic],  near  Basel  in  Switz- 
erland: Printed  at  the  Mission  Press  at  the 
request  and  expense  of  the  British  and  For- 
eign Bibee  [Sic]-Society,  1866.  4  p.l.,  440  p. 
24°.  *OEI 

With  extra  title-pages  in  Latin  and  Tigre. 

Camperio,  Manfredo.  Manuale  tigre- 
italiano  con  dizionarietti  italiano-tigre  e 
tigre-italiano,  e  cartina  dimonstrativa  degli 
idiomi  parlati  in  Eritrea.  Milano:  Ulrico 
Hoepli,  1894.  4  p.l.,  (1)8-177  p.,  1  1.,  1  map. 
24°.  (Manuali  Hoepli.)  *  OEI 

Reviewed  in  L'Oriente  (by  Carlo  Conti  Rossini), 
Roma,  1894,  v.  1,  p.  102-109,  *OAA;  Literarisches 
Centralblatt  (b>  F.  P[raetorius] ),  Leipzig,  1894,  p. 
317,  NAA. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Documenti  per  lo 
studio  della  lingua  tigre.  (Societa  asiatica 
italiana.  Giornale.  Firenze,  1903.  8°.  v.  16, 
p.  1-32.)  *  OAA 

Text  in  Roman  characters. 

Proverbi.   Enigmi.   Testi  varii.  Tradizioni. 

  Di  due  nuove  pubblicazioni  sulla  lin- 
gua tigre.  (L'Oriente.  Roma,  1894.  8°.  v. 
1,  p.  102-114.)  *OAA 

  Racconti  e  canti  bileni.  (Interna- 
tional Congress  of  Orientalists,  14th,  Alger, 
1905.  Actes  du  xive  congres.  Paris,  1907. 
8°.  Section  4,  p.  331-394.)  *  OAA 

Text  only,  in  Ethiopic  characters. 

p.  364-394:  Testi  tigre:  (1)  Le  antichissime  tribu 
d'  ell'  Anseba,  prima  dei  Bogos.  (2)  Canti  (164  in 
number). 

  Tradizioni  Beni  Amer,  Algheden  e 

Sabderat.  (In  his:  Ricordo  di  un  soggiorno 
in  Eritrea.  Asmara,  1903.  8°.  p.  67-78.) 

*OEI 

  Tradizioni  storiche  dei  Mensa.  (So- 
cieta asiatica  italiana.  Giornale.  Firenze, 
1901.  8°.  v.  14,  p.  41-99.)  *  OAA 

A  collection  of  Tigre  tribal  legends.  Text,  trans- 
lation, and  notes. 


Jacquet,  Eugene  Vincent  Stanislas.  Ob- 
servations grammaticales  sur  un  specimen 
du  dialectes  abyssins  de  Tigre.  (Nouveau 
journal  asiatique.  Paris,  1830.  8°.  tome  5, 
p.  284-293.)  *  OAA 

Kolmodin,  Johan  Adolf.  Uber  die  3.  pers. 
masc.  sing.  perf.  im  Tigre.  (Le  Monde  ori- 
ental.  Uppsala,  1912.  8°.  v.  6,  p.  1-4.) 

*OAA 

Littmann,  Enno.  Abessinische  Glossen. 
(Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie.  Strassburg, 
1908.  8°.  Bd.  21,  p.  50-109.)  *  OCL 

A  collection  of  three  glossaries:  (1)  Tigre-Turkish; 
(2)  Tigre-Arabic;  (3)  Ethiopic-Amharic. 

Reviewed  in  Revue  semitique  (by  J.  Halevy), 
Paris,  1908,  tome  16,  p.  107,  *OAA;  Journal,  Royal 
Asiatic  Society,  London,  1908,  p.  281,  *OAA. 

  Canzone  tigre  in  onore  del  governa- 

tore  italiano.  (Rivista  degli  studi  orientali. 
Roma,  1907.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  211-215.)     *  OAA 

Text,  transcript  into  Roman  characters,  literal 
translation,  and  metrical  translation.  The  "canzone" 
was  composed  in  1905  by  a  Mensa  muleteer,  Hawasabai 
wad  Dafla,  in  honor  of  His  Excellency  Ferdinando 
Martini,  the  Italian  royal  civil  commissary  of  the 
Colonia  Eritrea. 


  The  legend  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba 

in  the  tradition  of  Axum.  Leyden:  E.  J. 
Brill,  1904.  xi,  40  p.  8°.  (Bibliotheca  Abes- 
sinica.  no.  1.)  *  OED 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by 
Wellhausen),  Berlin,  1907,  Jahrg.  169,  p.  173-174, 
*DF;  Literarisches  Zentralblatt  (by  Reckendorf), 
Leipzig,  1906,  Jahrg.  57,  col.  393,  NAA;  Journal 
asiatique  (by  A.  Guerinot),  Paris,  1905,  serie  10, 
tome  6,  p.  378-380,  *OAA;  Deutsche  Literaturzeitung 
(by  Rene  Basset),  Leipzig,  1906,  col.  473-476,  NAA. 

  Ein  nordabessinisches  Heldenlied. 

(Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie.  Strassburg, 
1912.  8°.   Bd.  27,  p.  112-120.)  *  OCL 

In  honor  of  Gahad  wad  'Aggaba,  one  of  the  leaders 
of  the  Mensa'  Bet-Abrehe,  who  lived  about  the  middle 
of  the  nineteenth  century.  The  singer  was  'Emran 
wad  Karam-bazzeh.  The  original  text  is  published 
in  Publications  of  Princeton  University  Expedition  to 
Abyssinia,  v.  3,  p.  53-56. 

  Die  Pronomina  im  Tigre.    Ein  Bei- 

trag  zur  aethiopischen  Dialektkunde.  (Zeit- 
schrift fur  Assyriologie.  Weimar,  1897.  8°. 
Bd.  12,  p.  188-230,  291-316.)  *  OCL 

  Semitische  Stammessagen  der  Ge- 

genwart.  Aus  dem  Tigre  ubersetzt.  (In: 
Orientalische  Studien  Theodor  Noldeke 
zum  siebzigsten  Geburtstag. .  .  Herausge- 
geben  von  Carl  Bezold.  Gieszen:  A.  Topel- 
mann,  1906.  8°.  Bd.  2,  p.  941-958.)     *  OAC 

  Specimens  of  the  popular  literature 

of  modern  Abyssinia.  (American  Oriental 
Society.  Journal.  New  Haven,  1902.  8°. 
v.  23,  p.  51-55.)  *  OAA 

Tigrai  and  Tigre. 


ETHIOPIGA  AND  AMHARICA 


71 


Tigre  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Littmann,  Enno,  continued. 

  Tigre-Erzahlungen.  (Deutsche  mor- 

genlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1911.  8°.  Bd.  65,  p.  697-708.) 

*  OAA 

In  Tigre  with  transliteration  and  translation  into 
German. 

  The  Tigre  language.  (Zeitschrift  fur 

Assyriologie.  Strassburg,  1907.  8°.  Bd.  20, 
p.  155-165.)  *OCL 

  Das    Verbum    der  Tigresprache. 

(Zeitschrift  fiir  Assyriologie.  Weimar  & 
Berlin,  1898-99.  8°.  Bd.  13,  p.  133-178;  Bd. 
14,  p.  1-102.)  *OCL 

Lundgren,  Fr.  See  under  Norlen,  Wilh., 
and  Fr.  Lundgren. 

Luther,  Martin.    Katekesimo  ndogo  ya 
Doktari  Martin  Luther.  Asmara:  Tipografia 
della  Missione  Svedese,  1904.   27  p.  24°. 
Printed  in  Roman  characters.  *OEI 

  II  piccolo  catechismo  per  dottore 

Martino  Lutero.  Tradotto  della  lingua 
svedese  in  lingua  tigre,  ed  edito  dalla  So- 
cieta evangelica  paterna.  Moncullo:  Tipo- 
grafia della  Missione  svedese,  1895.  91  p. 
8°.  *OEI 

Merx,  Adalbert.  See  under  Beurmann, 
Moritz  von. 

Munzinger,  Werner.  La  langue  tigre. 
(Revue  geographique  internationale.  Paris, 
1884.  4°.  annee  9,  p.  37.)  KAA 

Gives  a  list  of  the  tribes  who  speak  the  language, 
etc. 

  Vocabulaire  de  la  langue  tigre.  vi 

tmisnumbered  iv]  p.,  cols.  [7]-64,  1  p.  f°. 

tt*  OEC 

Cols.  [53]-64:  Extrait  du  vocabulaire  de  la  langue 
tigre  parlee  a  Mugaww'a,  compile  par  Antoine  d'Ab- 
badie. 

Forms  an  appendix  to  Dillmann's  Lexicon  linguae 
Acthiopicac.  .  . 

 Vocabulaire  de  la  langue  tigre.  Leip- 
zig: T.  O  Weigel,  1865.  x,  93  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

Noeldeke,  Theodor.  Ein  neuer  Tigre- 
Text.  (Zeitschrift  fiir  Assyriologie.  Strass- 
burg, 1902.  8°.  Bd.  16,  p.  65-78.)    *  OCL 

  Tigre-Lieder.  (Zeitschrift  fiir  As- 
syriologie. Strassburg,  1918.  8°.  Bd.  31,  p. 
1-25.)  *OCL 

Based  on  the  Publications  of  the  Princeton  Ex- 
pedition to  Abyssinia  by  Enno  Littmann. 

 Tigre-Texte.  (Vienna  Oriental  jour- 
nal. Vienna,  1890.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  289-300.) 

*OAA 

Based  on  Evangelium  enligt  Markus  pi  Tigre- 
spraket,  M'Kullo,  1889. 

 Tigre-Texte.  (Zeitschrift  fiir  Assvri- 

ologie.  Strassburg,  1910.  8°.  Bd.  24,  p.  286- 
300.)  *OCL 

Based  on  the  Publications  of  the  Princeton  Ex- 
pedition to  Abyssinia  by  Enno  Littmann. 

Norlen,  Wilh.,  and  Fr.  Lundgren.  Storia 
sacra.  Tradotta  dalla  lingua  svedese  in  lin- 


gua tigre,  ed  edita  dalla  Societa  evangelica 
paterna.  Moncullo:  Stampata  nella  Tipo- 
grafia della  Missione  svedese,  1895.  103  p. 
8°.  *OEI 

Title  also  in  Tigre. 

Perini,  Ruffillo.  Manuale  teorico-pratico 
della  lingua  tigre,  pubblicato  a  spese  della 
Societa  geografica  italiana.  Roma:  Presso 
la  Societa  geografica  italiana,  1893.  3  p.l., 
[ix-]xi,  120  p.,  1  1.,  tables  (partly  folded).  8°. 

Tigre  printed  in  Roman  characters.  *  OEI 

The  two  pages  at  end  are:  "Errata  —  corrige." 
Reviewed  in  L'Oriente  (by  Carlo  Conti  Rossini), 
Roma,  1894,  v.  1,  p.  109-114,  *OAA. 

Princeton  University  Expedition  to  Abys- 
sinia, 1905-1906.  Publications  of  the  Prince- 
ton Expedition  to  Abyssinia. . .  Leyden:  late 
E.  J.  Brill,  Ltd.,  1910-15.  4  v.  in  5.  8°. 

*OEI 

Contents:  i.  Tales,  customs,  names  and  dirges 
of  the  Tigre  tribes:  Tigre  text.  ii.  Tales,  customs, 
names  and  dirges  of  the  Tigre  tribes:  English  trans- 
lation, in.  Lieder  der  Tigre-Stamme:  Tigre  Text, 
iv.  Lieder  der  Tigre-Stamme:  Deutsche  tJbersetzung 
und  Commentar.  A.  Lieder  der  Mansa',  Bet-Guk  und 
Marya.  B.  Lieder  der  'Ad-Temaryam,  'Ad-Hebtes 
(Habab),  'Ad-Takles  und  kleiner  Stamme. 

v.  1-2  reviewed  in  Zeitschrift  fiir  die  Kunde  des 
Morgcnlandes  (by  Nikolaus  Rhodokanakis),  Wien, 
1911,  Bd.  25,  p.  119-122,  *OAA;  Zeitschrift  der 
Dcutschcn  morgenldndischen  Gesellschaft  (by  Eugen 
Mittwoch),  Leipzig,  1911,  Bd.  65,  p.  363-370,  *OAA; 
Litcrarisches  Zcntralblatt  (by  Reckendorf),  Leipzig, 
1911,  Jahrg.  62,  col.  238-239,  NAA;  Gottingische 
gclehrte  Anzeigen  (by  Wellhausen),  Berlin,  1910, 
Jahrg.  172,  p.  444-448,  *DF ;  Deutsche  Literaturzei- 
tniiQ  (by  J.  Barth),  Berlin,  1910,  Jahrg.  31,  col. 
2029-2032,  NAA. 

Sillabario  della  lingua  tigre.  Ketab  fedel 
'eb  tegre.  Evangelica  nazionale  svedese.  As- 
mara :  Tipografia  della  Missione  svedese, 
1904.  127  p.  8°.  *OEI 

Sundstrom,  G.  R.  Kannedom  om  lake- 
medel  ock  deras  andvandning  bland  in- 
fodingarne  i  Mansa'.  (Le  Monde  oriental. 
Uppsala,  1909.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  152-173.)  *  OAA 

Tigre  text  with  Swedish  translation  and  notes. 

  En  sang  pa  tigre-spraket,  uppteck- 

nad,  ofversatt  och  forklarad  af  R.  Sund- 
strom. Utgifven  och  ofversatt  till  tyska  af 
E.  Littmann.  Uppsala:  Akademiska  Bok- 
handeln  [1904].  1  p.l.,  34  p.  8°.  (Kongliga 
Humanistiska  Vetenskaps-Samfundet.  Skrif- 
ter.  Bind  8,  fno.]  6.)  *  EI 

  Sjukdomar  ock  deras  behandling  av 

infodingar  i  Mansa'.  (Le  Monde  oriental. 
Uppsala,  1909.  8°.  v.  3,  p.  127-151.)   *  OAA 

Text  and  Swedish  translation. 

 Some  Tigre  texts  with  transliteration 

and  translation.  (Le  Monde  oriental.  Up- 
sala,  1914.  8°.  v.  8,  p.  1-15.)  *  OAA 

Svenska  Missionsforbundet,  Stockholm. 
Cantici  di  Sion.  In  tigre.  Seconda  [-terza] 
parte.  Per  cura  della  Societa  evangelica 
nazionale  svedese.  Asmara:  Stampato  nella 
tipografia  della  Missione  svedese,  1905-07. 
2v.  24°.  *OEI 


72  THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Tigrina  Language  and  Literature 

The  Tigrina  language  "is  the  daughter  of  literary  Ethiopic,  or  Ge'ez,  and  is  spoken  in 
the  centre  of  the  ancient  kingdom  of  Aksum."  The  main  provinces  where  it  is  used  are 
Hamasen  Dembalas,  Saraie,  Okkule  Guzai,  Tigrai  (Tigre),  and  Tembien.  The  largest  of 
these  provinces  is  the  one  called  by  the  inhabitants  themselves  Tigrai  and  in  literature  and 
by  the  Amharas  Tigre.  With  the  Amharic  adjectival  termination  the  language  is  known 
as  Tigrina.  The  language  is  often  called  z'drava  khestan  (in  Tigrina)  or  hlga  kestan  (in 
Tigre)  "the  language  of  the  Christians." 


Bassano,  Francesco  da.  Vocabolario 
tigray-italiano  e  repertorio  italiano-tigray. 
Roma:  Casa  editrice  italiana  di  C.  de  Luigi, 
1918.  xiv  p.,  1  L,  1308  numbered  cols.  4°. 
(Italy.  — Ministerio  delle  Colonic)   *  OEI 

Bible.  —  New  Testament:  Gospels.  The 
four  Gospels  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ,  in  the  Tigrinja  language.  Asmara: 
Printed  at  the  expense  and  by  the  request 
of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  in 
London,  at  the  Swedish  Mission-Press, 
1900.  2  p.l.,  477  p.  16°.  *  OEI 

Translated  by  Karl  Winqvist,  a  Swedish  mission- 
ary, with  the  help  of  two  natives,  Markus  Germei 
and  Gebra  Istatius. 

500  copies  of  this  edition  were  printed. 

The  text  is  divided  into  paragraphs. 

Cimono,  Alfonso.  Vocabolario  italiano- 
tigrai  &  tigrai-italiano.  Asmara:  Tipografia 
della  Missione  svedese,  1904.  xiv,  338  p. 
8°.  *OEI 

In  the  Italian-Tigray  part  the  Tigray  is  also  given 
in  Roman  characters. 

p.  326-337:  "Nomi  abissini,"  with  their  pronuncia- 
tion and  meaning. 

Reviewed  in  Journal  asiatique  (by  A.  Guerinot), 
Paris,  1905,  serie  10,  tome  6,  p.  381;  Asiatic  quarterly 
review,  Woking,  1905,  y.  20,  p.  205;  Zeitschrift  der 
Deutschen  morgenldndischen  Gesellschaft,  Leipzig, 
1905,  Bd.  59,  p.  822-831,  *OAA. 

Conti  Rossini,  Carlo.  Canti  popolari  ti- 
grai. (Zeitschrift  fur  Assyriologie.  Strass- 
burg,  1903-06.  8°.  Bd.  17,  p.  23-52;  Bd.  18, 
p.  320-386;  Bd.  19,  p.  288-341.)        *  OCL 

  Leggi  tigrai.  (In  his:  Ricordi  di  un 

soggiorno  in  Eritrea.  Asmara,  1903.  8°.  p. 
59-66.)  *  OEI 

I.  Legge  dei  Loggo  Sarda.  II.  Leggi  dei  Decchi 
Tascim. 

 I  Loggo  e  la  legge  dei  Loggo  Sarda. 

(Societa  asiatica  italiana.  Giornale.  Firenze, 
1904.  8°.  v.  17,  p.  1-63.)  *OAA 

 Poemetto  lirico  tigrai  per  la  battaglia 

di  Addi  Cheleto.  (Orientalische  Studien. 
Theodor  Noldeke,  zum  siebzigsten  Geburts- 
tag...  Gieszen,  1906.  8°.  Bd.  2,  p.  925- 
939.)  *OAC 

Text,  translation,  and  notes. 

Coulbeaux,  P.  S.,  and  J.  Schreiber.  Dic- 
tionnaire  de  la  langue  tigrai.  Wien:  Alfred 
Holder,  1915.  1  p.l.,  504  p.  8°.  (Kaiserliche 


Akademie  der  Wissenschaften.  —  Sprachen- 
kommission.  [Schriften.]  Bd.  6.)         *  OEI 
No   more    published.     Contains    only    the  letters 
H  to  N. 

Faitlovitch,  Jacques.  Qene  habasha.  Versi 
abissini.  Parte  prima.  Roma:  Casa  editrice 
italiana,  1910.  1  p.l.,  88  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

Parte  1 :  Testo  tigrigna. 

Reprinted  from  the  Giornale  della  Societa  asiatica 
italiana. 

  Versi  abissini.  (Societa  asiatica  itali- 
ana. Giornale.  Firenze,  1911.  8°.  v.  23,  p. 
1-88.)  *  OAA 

Text  only,  with  introductory  note  on  p.  1-4. 

Gallina,  F.  Indovinelli  tigray.  (L'Oriente. 
Roma,  1894.  8°.  v.  1,  p.  28-33.)        *  OAA 

Hagos  Takkhasta.  Neshtoi  terguim  'er- 
tera.  Asmara:  Missyon  Swedese,  1903.  5  p.l., 
195  p.  24°.  *OEI 

A  Tigrina-Italian-Arabic  vocabulary  in  Amharic 
characters.  The  Italian  words  are  respelled  phonetic- 
ally in  native  characters  in  the  third  column. 

Kolmodin,  Johan  Adolf.  Traditions  de 
Tsazzega  et  Hazzega. .  .par  Johannes  Kol- 
modin. [Partie  1-3.]  Rome:  [C.  de  Luigi,] 
1912-14.  3  v.  4°.  (Archives  d'etudes  ori- 
entales.  v.  5,  rpartie]  1-3.)  *  OAC 

Part  3  has  imprint:  Upsal,  Edv.  Berling. 

Contents:  [Partie  1.]  Textes  tigrigna.  [Partie  2.] 
Traduction  frangaise.  [Partie  3.]  Annales  et  docu- 
ments. 

Contents  of  parts  I— II. :  I.  Genealogie  des  hommes 
du  Hamasen.  II.  Les  sept  fils  d'Atescim  et  Musa, 
le  huitienie  (d'env.  1500).  in.  La  famille  du  deg- 
giacc  (d'env.  1700).  iv.  Les  trois  principautes  des 
Deccatescim  (vers  1770).  v.  La  famille  du  cantiba 
Zerai  (jusque  vers  1840).  vi.  £poque  des  ciccas 
(vers  1850).  VII.  Les  luttes  du  deggiacc  Hailu  avec 
les  fils  de  dame  Illen  (jusque  vers  1870).  vin.  Les 
deux  batailles  de  lundi  (jusque  vers  1880).  ix.  His- 
toire  recente  du  Hamasen. 

Contents  of  part  ill.:  i.  Extraits  de  la  table  des 
rois  de  Dabra-Demah.  II.  Les  annales  de  Addi- 
Neammin  et  de  Tsazzega.  in.  Du  roman  d'Alexandre 
d'Atescim.  iv.  De  l'^Evangile  d'or"  de  Hazzega. 
v.  Extraits  des  recueils  du  pretre  Tedla.  vi.  Deux 
donations  de  la  "famille  du  deggiacc."  VII.  Une 
chronique  de  famille  de  Tsada-Chistan.  vin.  Trois 
titres  de  vente  de  Tsazzega.  ix.  Les  listes  de  tazkar 
de  la  "famille  du  deggiacc."  x.  Extraits  faits  par 
l'azmacc  Tecla-Haimanot.  XI.  Table  des  princes  de 
Tsazzega  du  19  :e  siecle.  XII.  Les  annales  modernes 
de  Hazzega. 

Lefebvre,  Charlemagne  Theophile,  and 
others.  Voyage  en  Abyssinie  execute  pen- 
dant les  annees  1839-43...  Paris:  Arthus 
Bertrand  [1845?!.  3  v.  8°.  PQM 

v.  3,  p.  411-421:  Langue  tigreenne  (pronoms, 
verbes,  dialogues  tigreens). 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


73 


Tigrina  Language  and  Literature,  continued. 

Littmann,  Enno.  Specimens  of  the  popu- 
lar literature  of  modern  Abyssinia.  (Ameri- 
can Oriental  Society.  Journal.  New  Haven, 
1902.   8°.   v.  23,  p.  51-55.)  *  OAA 

Tigrai  and  Tigre. 

 Tigrina-Texte  im  Dialekte  von  Tan- 
ben.  (Wiener  Zeitschrift  fur  die  Kunde  des 
Morgenlandes.  Wien,  1902.  8°.  Bd.  16,  p. 
211-225.)  *OAA 

Offeio,  Francesco  da.  Grammatica  della 
lingua  tigrai.  Cheren:  Tipografia  cattolica, 
1907.  3  p.l.,  177(1)  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

 Nay  khankhua  'italya  sewasezv.  Roma  : 

Casa  editrice  italiana,  1908.  2  p.l.,  190  p..  1  1. 
8°.  *OEI 

A  Tigrai-Italian  grammar. 

  Proverbi  abissini  in  lingua  tigray. 

1  pi.,  3  illus.  (Anthropos.  Salzburg,  1906- 
08.  8°.  Bd.  1,  p.  296-301;  Bd.  3,  p.  207-212.) 

QOA 

One  hundred  and  fifty  proverbs  in  transliteration 
and  translation. 

Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz. 
Grammatik  der  Tigrinasprache  in  Abessin- 
ien,  hauptsachlich  in  der  Gegend  von  Aksum 
und  Adoa.  Mit  einer  Textbeilage.  Halle : 
Verlag  der  Buchhandlung  des  Waisenhauses, 
1871.  viii,  367(1),  5  p.  8°.  *  OEI 

The  Textbeilage  is:  Das  erste  Kapitel  des  Jo- 
hannesevangelium  in  Tigrina-Sprache  nach  der  Hand- 
schrift  R  mit  den  Varianten  von  F. 

  Tigrina  Spruchworter.  (Deutsche 

morgenlandische  Gesellschaft.  Zeitschrift. 
Leipzig,  1883-88.  8°.  Bd.  37,  p.  443-450; 
Bd.  38,  p.  481-485;  Bd.  39,  p.  322-326;  Bd. 
42,  p.  62-67.)  *  OAA 

  Ueber      zwei  Tigrinadialekte. 

(Deutsche  morgenlandische  Gesellschaft. 
Zeitschrift.  Leipzig,  1874.  8°.  Bd.  28,  p. 
437-447.)  *  OAA 

I.  Der  Dialekt  von  Hamasen.  II.  Der  Dialekt  von 
Tanben. 

Ronciglione,  Angelo  da.  Manuale  tigray- 
italiano-francese .  .  .  Roma:  Casa  editrice 
italiana,  1912.  xvi,  428  p.,  1  1.  (errata  — 
corrige).  12°.  (Italy.  —  Direzione  Centrale 
degli  Affari  Coloniali.)  *  OEI 


Schreiber,  J.  Manuel  de  la  langue  tigrai, 
parlee  au  centre  et  dans  le  nord  de  l'Abys- 
sinie.  Vienne:  Alfred  Hcelder,  1887-93.  vii 
(i),  227  p.  8°.  *OEI 

Two  parts  in  one  volume, 
v.  2 :  Textes  et  vocabulaire. 

Part  i  reviewed  in  Zeitschrift  der  Deutschen 
morgenlandischen  Gesellschaft  (by  F.  Praetorius), 
Leipzig,  1887,  Bd.  41,  p.  685-691,  *OAA;  Deutsche 
Litteraturzeitung  (by  A.  Dillmann),  Berlin,  1887, 
Jahrg.  8,  col.  302,  NAA;  Literarisches  Centralblatt 
(by  G.  v.  d.  G[abelentz]),  Leipzig,  1887,  col.  310, 
NAA. 

Part  ii  reviewed  in  Literarisches  Centralblatt  (by 
F.  P[raetorius]),  Leipzig,  1893,  col.  1791,  NAA. 

 See  also  under  Coulbeaux,  P.  S.,  and 

J.  Schreiber. 

Sillabario  della  lingua  tigrigna.  Mashaf 
fidal  zaraba  tigrinna.  Asmara :  Tipografia 
della  Missione  svedese,  1905.  2  p.l.,  64  p. 
16°.  *OEI 

Vito,  Ludovico  de.  Esercizi  di  lettura  in 
lingua  tigrigna.  Roma:  Casa  editrice  itali- 
ana, 1893.  69  p.,  1  L,  and  slip  of  errata.  8°. 

*OEI 

Tigrina  in  native  characters  and  transliterated. 
Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Ameigen  (by 
Theodor  Noldeke),  Gottingen,  1895,  p.  292-296,  *DF. 

  Grammatica  elementare  della  lingua 

tigrigna.  Roma:  Tipografia  poliglotta  della 
S.  C.  de  Propaganda  Fide,  1895.  85  p.,  1  1. 
('indice'  and  'errata  —  corrige'.)  8°.  *  OEI 

"Gli  elementi  per  lo  studio  della  lingua  tigrigna  mi 
sono  stati  offerti  principalmente  della  conversazione  a 
viva  voce  con  Abissini  di  Adua:  —  ed  all'uso  della 
lingua  parlata  mi  sono  attenuto  in  questa  grammatica." 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by 
Theodor  Noldeke),  Gottingen,  1895,  p.  292-296,  *DF. 

 Vocabolario  della  lingua  tigrigna;  in- 

troduzione  e  indice  italiano-tigrigna  del 
Dott.  Conti  Rossini  Carlo.  Roma:  Casa 
editrice  italiana,  1896.  xii  p.,  1  L,  (1)8-166  p. 
8°.  *OEI 

Reviewed  in  Gottingische  gelehrte  Anzeigen  (by 
Theodor  Noldeke),  Berlin,  1897,  Jahrg.  159,  p.  15- 
20,  *DF. 

Winqvist,  C.  Sillabario  nella  lingua  ti- 
grinja,  tradotto  da  Dre.  C.  Winqvist  in- 
sieme  con  maestri  indigeni.  Pubblicato  dalla 
Missione  svedese  nella  Colonia  Eritrea.  As- 
mara: Stampato  nella  Tipografia  della 
Missione  svedese,  1896.    76  p.    8°.     *  OEI 


ADDENDA 


Titles  Received  Too  Late  for  Insertion  in  Their  Proper  Places 


Ethiopic  liturgies  and  hymns.  Trans- 
lated by  the  Rev.  J.  M.  Rodwell.  (Journal 
of  sacred  literature.  London,  1863-65.  8°. 
new  series,  v.  3,  p.  337-352;  v.  4,  p.  108-131, 
363-375;  v.  5,  p.  361-368;  v.  7,  p.  301-310.) 

*  DA 

v.  3,  p.  337-352;  v.  4,  p.  108-117:  The  ordinary 
canon  of  the  Abyssinian  Church.  Translated  from  the 
edition  printed  in  Rome  in  1548.  The  ms.  of  this  liturgy 
in  the  British  Museum,  no.  16,202,  was  also  consulted, 
though  of  more  recent  date  than  the  Roman  text. 

v.  4,  p.  118-122:  The  Eucharistic  Office  (Kedasse) 
of  Our  Lord,  the  Healer  of  the  Sick;  p.  122-131:  The 
Eucharistic  Office  (Kedasse)  of  Our  Lady  Mary,  com- 
posed by  Abba  Heriacos,  bishop  of  the  city  of  Behensa; 
p.  363-375:  The  Eucharistic  Office  of  Dioscorus,  as  far 
as  the  end  of  the  words  of  Institution,  from  British 
Museum  ms.  16,202,  and  the  words  of  Institution  from 
the  unpublished  liturgy  of  St.  Chrysostom,  from  the 
same  ms.,  etc. 

v.  5,  p.  361-368;  v.  7,  p.  301-310:  Miscellaneous 
prayers  and  exorcisms  translated  from  an  ancient  manu- 
script in  the  library  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society. 

Bible.  —  Old  Testament:  Pseudepigrapha 
—  Baruch. 

Antonin,  archimandrite.  Kniga  proroka 
Varucha.  Reprodukzia.  St.  Petersburg:  Im- 
peratorskaya  Akademiya  Naul^  printers,  1902. 
422  p.  4°.  *  PFF 

p.  137-144  contain  notes  on  the  Ethiopic  version. 


Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson  Wal- 
lis.  A  history  of  Ethiopia,  Nubia  &  Abys- 
sinia (according  to  the  hieroglyphic  inscrip- 
tions of  Egypt  and  Nubia,  and  the  Ethiopian 
chronicles).  London:  Methuen  &  Co.  [1928.] 
2  v.  illus.  8°. 

v.  2,  p.  550—617  contain  sections  on  (1)  Abyssinian, 
i.e.  Ethiopic,  writing  and  literature;  (2)  The  Ethiopic 
syllabary;  (3)  Abyssinian  (Ethiopic)  manuscripts;  (4) 
Abyssinian  literature;  (5)  The  languages  of  Abyssinia; 
(6)  Titles,  ecclesiastical,  civil,  military,  etc.;  (7)  Chris- 
tian Abyssinian  magic;  (8)  The  legend  of  Susenyos; 
(9)  A  spell  to  fetter  devils;  (10)  A  spell  against 
ophthalmia;  (11)  The  legend  of  'Aynat;  (12)  The 
amulet  of  Walatta  Haywat;  (13)  History  of  the  Galla. 

Synaxarium.  The  book  of  the  saints  of  the 
Ethiopian  Church;  a  translation  of  the  Ethi- 
opian Synaxarium  [Mashafa  Senkesar^  made 
from  the  manuscripts  Oriental  660  and  661 
in  the  British  Museum  by  Sir  E.  A.  Wallis 
Budge...  Cambridge:  The  University 
Press,  1928.  4  v.  8°.  *  OEE 

v.  1:  Maskaram,  Tekemt,  Khedar  (September  8- 
December  6). 

v.  2:  Takhshash,  Ter,  Yakatit  (December  7  -  March 

6). 

v.  3:  Magabit,  Miyazya,  Genbot  (March  7  -  June 

4). 

v.  4:  Sane,  Hamle,  Nahasse,  Paguemen  (June  5- 
September  7). 

Three  hundred  copies  only  of  this  work  have  been 
printed;  of  these  two  hundred  and  fifty  are  for  sale. 


[75] 


INDEX  OF  AUTHORS 


A 

Abbadie,  Antoine  Thompson  d'.  1810-1897: 
Catalogue  raisonne,  13. 
Dictionnaire  de  la  langue  amarinna,  62. 
Letter  to  Rev.  G.  C.  Renouard,  19. 
Lettre.  .  .a  M.  Mohl,  19. 

Lettres  a  M.  Garcin  de  Tassy  [et]  a  M.  Jomard,  19. 
Lettres... a  M.  Jules  Mohl,  19. 
See  also  under  Ethiopic  literature,  20. 
Abessinische  Studien  herausgegeben  von  Eugen  Mitt- 
woch,  18. 

Acta  Martyrum  edidit  Esteves  Pereira,  59. 
Adelung,  Johann  Christoph,  1732-1806: 

Volker  von  Nubien  und  Habesch,  19. 
^Ethiopic   liturgies   and   hymns,   translated  by  Rod- 
well,  75. 
/Ethiops.  Bulletin  ge'ez,  18. 
Afa-Warq,  Gabra  Iyesus: 

Grammatica  della  lingua  amarica,  62. 

Guide  du  voyageur  en  Abyssinie,  62. 

II  verbo  amarico,  62. 
Almeida,  Manuel  de,  1580-1646: 

Vida  de  Takla  Haymanot,  58. 

See  also  under  Victorias  and  Zena  MInas. 
Alone,  J.  P.: 

Short  manual  of  the  Amharic  language,  62. 
Alphabetum  Aethiopicum,  21. 

Amaduzzi,  Giovanni  Cristoforo,  1740-1792.   See  under 

Alphabetum  Aethiopicum,  21. 
Ammonius  of  Alexandria.    See  under    Grebaut,  S. 

Les  dix  Canons,  30. 
Anaphora  of  the  Ethiopic  church  ordinances,  53. 
Anaphora  des  hi.  Jakobus,  des  Bruders  des  Herrn,  53. 
Anaphora  of  the  holy  and  blessed  John,  53. 
Anaphora  of  Our  Lady  Mary,  53. 
Anaphora  of  Our  Lord,  53. 
Anaphora  of  Saint  Dioscorus,  53. 
Anaphora  of  Saint  Epiphanius,  53. 
Anaphora  of  Saint  Gregory,  brother  of  Basil,  53. 
Anaphora  of  Saint  Gregory  the  Armenian,  53. 
Anaphora  of  Saint  James  of  Serug,  54. 
Anaphora  of  St.  John  Chrysostom,  54. 
Anaphora  of  the  318  Orthodox,  54. 
Anaphora  der  318  Rechtglaubigen,  53. 
Annales  regum  Iyasu  n  et  Iyo'as,  33. 
Antiphon  of  Saint  Minas,  58. 
Antonin,  archimandrite: 

Kniga  proroka  Varucha,  75. 
Apocrypha  de  B.  Maria  Virgine,  47. 
Les  Apocryphes  ethiopiens,  traduits  en  frangais  par 

Rene  Basset,  18. 
The  Apostolic  Canons,  50. 

'Arganona  ueddase  herausgegeben  von  P.  Leander, 
54. 

Armbruster,  Charles  Hubert,  1874-  : 

Initia  Amharica,  i-m,  62,  63. 
Arnhard,  Carl  von,  1850-  : 

Mashafa  temqat,  54. 

Die  Wasserweihe  nach  dem  Ritus  der  athiopischen 
Kirche,  54. 

Ascension  d'Isaie,  traduction.  .  .par  Tisserant,  45. 
Athanasius,  bishop  of  Antioch: 

The  conflict  of  Severus,  28. 
Axon,  William  Edward  Armytage.  See  under  Mashafa 
falasfa  Tabltan,  32. 

B 

Baarlam  and  Joasaph.  .  .the  Ethiopic  version,  28. 
Bachmann,  Johannes: 

Aethiopische  Lesestucke,  28. 

Das  Leben  und  die  Sentenzen  des  Philosophen  Se- 

cundus,  2». 
Das  Rechtsbuch  der  Abessinier,  30. 
Tebaba  sekendus,  28. 

See  also  under  Corpus  iuris  Abessinorum,  30. 


Ba'eda  Maryam,  chronique,  34. 
Ba-Hayla-Mika'el: 

Le  Livre  des  mysteres,  47. 

Les  Trois  derniers  traites  du  Livre  des  mysteres,  47. 
Bahrey: 

Geschichte  der  Galla,  34. 

Historia  Gentis  Galla,  34. 

Zena  Galla,  34. 
Bailey,  Moses.   See  under  Zar'a  Ya'qob,  33. 
Baptismal  book  of  the  Ethiopic  Church,  56. 
Barad'cta  zuahiruta  'amlakna,  50. 
Barth,  Christian  Gottlob: 

Bible-stories  (in  Amharic),  63. 
Barth,  J.  See  under  Praetorius,  G.  F.  F.,  Athiopische 

Grammatik,  26. 
Barton,  George  Aaron,  1859-  : 

On  an  Ethiopic  ms.  of  the  Octateuch,  40. 
Bassano,  Francesco  da: 

Vocabolario  tigray-italiano,  72. 

See  also  under  Bible.  New  Testament,  46. 
Basset,  Rene  Maria  Joseph,  1855-1924: 

Apocryphes  ethiopiens,  18. 

Deux  lettres  ethiopiennes  du  xvie  siecle,  28. 

Enseignements  de  Jesus-Christ  a  ses  disciples,  56. 

fitudes  sur  l'histoire  d'fithiopie,  34. 

Fekkare  Iyasous,  47. 

La  legende  des  sept-dormants,  28. 

Les  legendes  de  S.  Tertag  et  de  S.  Sousnyos,  28,  49. 

Les  prieres  de  S.  Cyprien,  56. 

Les  prieres  de  la  Vierge  a  Bartos  et  au  Golgotha,  57. 

Rapport  sur  les  etudes  ethiopiennes,  1887-1891,  13. 

Les  regies  attributes  a  saint  Pakhome,  32. 

La  Sagesse  de  Sibylle,  49. 

Vie  de  Abba  Yohanni,  58. 
Baumstark,  Anton,  1872-  : 

Der  athiopische  Bibelkanon,  50. 

Die  athiopische  Literatur,  19. 

Zitate  und  Spuren  der  Petrusapokalypse,  47. 
Be'ela  Nagastat:  The  book  of  the  riches  of  kings,  28. 
Beer,  Bernhard: 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen,  44. 
Beguinot,  Francesco,  1879-  : 

Di  alcuni  fenomeni  di  variazione  fonetica,  63. 
Beke,  Charles  Tilstone,  1800-1874: 

Languages  and  dialects  of  Abyssinia,  22,  68. 

On  geographical  distribution  of  languages  of  Abys- 
sinia, 19. 

On  the  Mats'hafa  tomar,  46. 

Uber  die  geographische  Verbreitung  der  Sprachen 
von  Abessinien,  22. 
Bellarmino,  Roberto  Francesco  Romolo,  cardinal,  1 542— 
1621: 

Dottrina  Cristiana,  50. 
Benedictio  puerperse  secundum  usum  .Ethiopum,  54. 
Bettini,  L.  See  under  Perini,  Ruffillo,  Gl'  idiomi,  26. 
Beurmann,  Moritz  von,  1835—1863: 

Glossar  der  Tigre-Sprache,  69. 

Vocabulary  of  the  Tigre  language,  69. 
Bezold,  Carl,  1859-1922: 

Anfuhrendes  a'  im  Aethiopischen,  22. 

Das  arabisch-athiopische  Testamentum  Adami,  47. 

Kebra  Nagast,  37. 

The  Ordinary  canon  of  the  Mass,  55. 
Bible: 

Biblia  sacra  Amharice,  63. 
Bible  —  Old  Testament: 
Testamenti  Aethiopica,  39. 
Books  of  the  Old  Testament  in  Amharic,  63. 
The  Octateuch  in  Ethiopic,  39,  40. 
Palaestra  linguarum  orientalium,  40. 
Liber  Ruth  aethiopice,  40. 
Le  Livre  d'Esther,  40. 
Le  Livre  de  Job,  40. 
Psalterium  ^Ethiopice  et  Amharice,  40. 


[77] 


78 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Bible  —  Old  Testament,  continued. 

Psalterium  Davidis  ^Ethiopice,  40. 

Dawit.  Zew'etu  mashaf  mazmurat  za-Dawit,  40. 

Book  of  the  Prophets  in  Amharic,  63. 

Die  Klagelieder  Jeremiae,  41. 

Dodekapropheton  Aethiopum,  41. 

Prophetia  Joel,  41. 

O  Livro  do  profeta  Amos,  41. 

Tenbit  za-Yonas,  41. 

The  Book  of  Jonah,  41. 

Propheta  Jonae,  41. 

Prophetia  Sophoniae,  41. 

Vatieinium  Malachae,  41. 
Bible  —  Old  Testament:  Apocrypha: 

Liber  Baruch,  41. 

Le  Livre  de  Baruch  et  le  legende  de  Jeremie,  42. 

inn  nsD,  42- 

Kniga  proroka  Varucha,  75. 
Libri  Henoch  Prophetae,  42. 
The  Book  of  Enoch  the  Prophet,  42. 
Liber  Henoch,  Aethiopice,  42. 

Das  Buch  Henoch,  uebersetzt  von  Dillmann,  42. 
The  Book  of  Enoch,  translated  by  Schodde,  42. 
Das  Buch  Henoch  aus  dem  Aethiopischen  von  Gold- 
schmidt,  42. 

Das  Buch  Henoch.  Athiopischer  Text  herausgegeben 

von  Flemming,  42. 
The  Ethiopic  version  [of  the  Book  of  Enoch]  edited 

by  Charles,  42. 
Le  Livre  d'Henoch  traduit  par  Martin,  43. 
Apocalypse  d'Esdras,  43. 
Za'ezra.  i.  Primi  Ezrae  libri,  43. 
Le  troisieme  livre  de  'Ezra,  43. 
Mashafa  kufdle,  sive  Liber  jubilaeorum,  43. 
Mashafa  kufale,  or  the  Ethiopic  version  of  Book  of 

Jubilees,  43. 

The  Book  of  Jubilees,  translated  by  Charles,  44. 
The   Book  of  Jubilees,   edited  and  translated  by 
Charles,  44. 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen.  .  .iibersetzt  von  Dillmann, 
44. 

Book  of  Jubilees  translated  by  Schodde,  44. 
Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen,  44. 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen.  .  .in's  Hebraische  iibersetzt, 
44. 

Ergata  Isayyas  nabay:  Ascensio  Isaiae  vatis,  44. 
The  Ascension  of  Isaiah,  44. 
"Ascensio  Isaiae,"  45. 
L'Ascension  d'lsaie,  45. 
Bible  —  New  Testament: 

Testamentvm  Novvm  cvm  Epistola  Pavli  ad  Hebreos 
tantum,  45. 

Novum  Testamentum  Domini  Nostri  et  Servatoris, 
46. 

Hadis  kidan.  Wangel  qedus  za'  egzi'ena,  46. 
Novum  Testamentum.  .. in  linguam  Amharicam,  63. 
II  Nuovo  Testamento  in  Tigre,  69. 
The    four    Gospels.  .  .translated    into    the  Tigre- 

language,  70. 
The  four  Gospels.  .  .in  the  Tigrinja  language,  72. 
Evangelia  Sacra  Domini  Nostri.  .  .  yEthiopici  et  Am- 

harice,  46. 

S.  Judae  Apostoli  epistolae  Catholicae,  Arabice  & 
Ethiopice,  46. 
Bible  —  New  Testament:  Apocrypha: 
Hermae  Pastor,  46. 

Mashafa  tomar  iibersetzt  von  Praetorius,  46. 

Mas'h'afa  Tomar,  46. 
Bibliotheca  Abessinica,  edited  by  E.  Littmann,  18. 
Bibliothecpje  nationale,  Paris: 

Catalogue  des  manuscrits  ethiopiens,  13. 
Bieber,  Friedrich  J.: 

Beitriige  zu  einem  erotischen  Lexikon  der  Abes- 
sinier,  63. 
Bird,  James: 

Abyssinian,  Eastern  Africa  and  Ethiopic  languages, 

22. 

On  origin  of  Hamaiyaric  and  Ethiopic  alphabets,  22. 


Bittner,  Maximilian: 

Aethiop.  ba'ed  und  Ar.  ba'd,  22. 

Aethiopisch  anbe'  und  anbe'a,  22. 

Aethiopisch  arwe  und  Armenisch  ara,  22. 

Aethiopisch  guer'e  "Kehle,"  22. 

Aethiopisch  san'a,  22. 

Athiopische  Etymologien,  22. 

Athiopische  Miszellaneen,  22. 

Der  vom  Himmel  gefallene  Brief  Christi,  46. 

Zu  ath.  gabgab,  atrium,  22. 

See  also  under  Fetha  Nagast,  30. 
Blake,  Frank  Ringgold,  1875-  : 

Comparative  syntax,  22. 
Blanchart,  J.: 

Note  sur  les  manuscrits  rapportes  d'Abyssinie,  13. 
Bock,  W.  de: 

Materiaux  pour  servir  a  l'archeologie  de  l'£gypte 
chretienne,  38. 
Bodleian  Library,  Oxford: 

Codices  Aethiopici,  digessit  A.  Dillmann,  13. 
Bogatstvo  tsarei,  28. 
Bonus,  Albert: 

An  Abyssinian  Christian  free-thinker,  33. 
The  Book  of  Adam  and  Eve,  translated  by  Malan,  48. 
The  Book  of  Thecla,  60. 
Boyd,  James  Oscar: 

The  text  of  the  Ethiopic  version  of  the  Octateuch,  40. 

See  also  under  Bible:  Octateuch,  40. 
Bricchetti-Robecchi,  Luigi: 

Lingue  parlate  somali,  galla,  e  harari,  68. 

Note  sulle  lingue  parlate  somali  [etc.],  69. 

Testi  nelle  lingue  harar  e  galla,  69. 
Brigham,  Charles  Henry,  1820-1879: 

Cornill's   examination  of  the  book  of  the  "Wise 
Philosopher,"  32. 
British  Museum: 

Catalogue    of    the    Ethiopic    manuscripts,    by  W. 
Wright,  13. 

Codices  aethiopicos  amplectens,  compiled  by  C.  F.  A. 
Dillmann,  13. 
Brockelmann,  Carl,  1868-  : 

Katalog  der   orientalischen   Handschrif ten.  .. Ham- 
burg, 13. 

Semitische  Sprachwissenschaft,  19. 
Das  Buch  der  weisen  Philosophen,  32. 
Budge,  Sir  Ernest  Alfred  Thompson  Wallis,  1857-  : 

Baarlam  and  Joasaph,  28. 

The  contendings  of  the  Apostles,  57. 

History  of  Ethiopia,  75. 

Kebra  Nagast,  37. 

Life  and  exploits  of  Alexander  the  Great,  31,  32. 

The  life  of  Takla  Haymanot,  58. 

Lives  of  Maba'  Seyon  and  Gabra  Krestos,  59. 

The  miracles  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary,  61. 

One  hundred  and  ten  miracles  of  Our  Lady  Mary,  47. 

Synaxarium,  75. 
Bunyan,  John,  1628-1688: 

Pilgrim's  progress,  in  Amharic,  63. 
Burton,  Sir  Richard  Francis,  1821-1890: 

Outline  and  vocabulary  of  the  Harari  language,  69. 


c 

Camperio,  Manfredo: 

Manuale  tigre-italiano,  70. 
Castell,  Edmund,  1606-1685: 

Lexicon  heptaglotton,  22. 
Cecchi,  Antonio,  1849-1896: 

Note  grammaticali  e  vocaboli  della  lingua  ciaha,  68. 
Cerulli,  Enrico: 

Canti  popolari  amarici,  63,  64. 

Nuove  idee  nell'  Etiopia,  64. 

La  poesia  popolare  amarica,  64. 

Una  raccolta  amarica  di  canti  funebri,  64. 

Recenti  pubblicazioni  abissine  in  amarico,  14. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


79 


Chains,  Marius,  1873-  : 

Catalogue  des  manuscrits  de  Antoine  d'Abbadie,  14. 
Catalogue  des  manuscrits  ethiopiens.  .  .de  Paris,  14. 
Catalogue  des  manuscrits  de  Mondon-Yidailhet,  14. 
La  consecration  et  l'epiclese  dans  le  missel  ethiopien, 
54. 

Le  cycle  de  la  Vierge,  47. 

La  date  de  la  mort  du  Metropolite  Abba  Salama,  34. 
Grammaire  ethiopienne,  22. 

Inventaire  sommaire  des  manuscrits  ethiopiens  de 

Berlin,  14. 
Le  livre  du  Coq,  50. 

Note  sur  les  animaux  de  Saint  Menas,  59. 
La  poesie  chez  les  £thiopiens,  64. 
Repertoire  des  salam  et  malke'e,  14. 
Le  rituel  ethiopien,  54. 

Sermon  sur  la  penitence  attribue  a  Saint  Cyrille,  50. 
See  also  under  Apocrypha  de  B.  Maria  Virgine,  47. 
Charles,  Robert  Henry,  1855-  : 
Chronicle  of  John,  bishop  of  Nikiu,  36. 
Mr.  Budge's  edition  of  the  lives  of  Maba'  Seyon  and 

Gabra  Krestos,  59. 
Recent  translations  of   Ethiopic  text  of   Book  of 
Enoch,  43. 
Chasosov  efiopskoi,  54. 

Das  Christliche  Adambuch  iibersetzt  von  Dillmann,  48. 
Chronique  de  Galawdewas,  34. 

Les  Chroniques  de  Zara  Ya'eqob  et  de  Ba'eda  Maryam, 
34. 

Cimono,  Alfonso: 

Vocabolario  italiano-tigrai  &  tigrai-italiano,  72. 
Claudius,  king  of  Abyssinia.   See  under  Galawdewos. 
Cohen,  Marcel  Samuel  Raphael,  1884—  : 

Consonnes  laryngales  et  voyelles  en  ethiopien,  22. 

Couplets  amhariques  du  Choa,  64. 

Les  etudes  ethiopiennes,  22. 

Groupes  de  consonnes,  22. 

Jeux  abyssins,  64. 

Langues  ethiopiennes,  23. 

La  naissance   d'une  litterature   imprimee   en  am- 
harique,  64. 

Notes  sur  des  verbes  et  des  adjectifs  amhariques,  64. 

Prononciation  traditionnelle  du  gueze,  23. 

Rapport  sur  une  mission  linguistique,  14. 

See  also  under  Mittwoch,  Eugen,  Traditionelle,  25. 
Contendings  of  the  Apostles,  57. 
Conti  Rossini,  Carlo,  1872-  : 

A  propos  des  textes  ethiopiens  concernant  Salama,  34. 

Aethiopica,  29. 

Gli  atti  di  Abba  Yonas,  59. 

L'autobiografia  di  Pawlos,  59. 

Besu'a  Amlak  e  il  Convento  della  Trinita,  59. 

La  caduta  della  dinastie  Zague,  34. 

Canti  popolari  tigrai,  72. 

Catalogc  dei  nomi  propri  di  luogo  dell'  Etiopia,  23. 
II  convento  di  Tsana,  54. 

Di  due  nuove  pubblicazioni  sulla  lingua  tigre,  70. 

Di  un  nuovo  codice  della  cronica  etiopica,  34. 

II  discorso  su  Monte  Coscam,  29. 

Un  documento  sul  cristianesimo  nello  Iemen,  34. 

Documento  per  lo  studio  della  lingua  tigre,  70. 

Donazioni  reali  alia  cattedrale  di  Aksum,  34. 

Epistolario  del  debtera  aseggachegn  di  Uadla,  34. 

L'evangelio  d'oro  di  Dabra  Libanos,  34. 

II  gadla  Filpos  e  il  gadla  Yohannes,  59. 

II  "Gadla  Takla  Haymanot"  secondo  la  redazione  wal- 

debbana,  59. 
Lo  Hatata  Zar'a  Ya'qob,  33. 
L'iscrizione  dell'  obelisco  presso  Matara,  38. 
Leggi  tigrai,  72. 
Lettre,  35. 

Lettre  [on  "obscure  enigme"],  35. 

II  libro  delle  legende.  .  .dell'  ecciaghie  Filpos,  29. 

Le  lingue  e  letteratura  semitiche  d'Etiopia,  14. 

Les  listes  des  rois  d'Aksoum,  35. 

I  Loggo  e  la  legge  dei  Loggo  Sarda,  72. 

I  manoscritti  etiopici  di  Cheren,  14. 

Manoscritti  ed  opere  abissine  in  Europa,  14. 

Note  etiopiche,  29. 


Conti  Rossini,  Carlo,  continued. 

Note  per  la  storia  letteraria  abissina,  20. 
Notice  sur  les  manuscrits  ethiopiens  d'Abbadie,  14. 
Nuovi  appunti  sui  giudei  d'Abissinia,  29. 
L'Omilia  di  Yohannes,  vescovo  d' Aksum,  52. 
Piccoli  studi  etiopici,  20. 

Poemetto   lirico   tigrai   per   la   battaglia   di  Addi 

Cheleto,  72. 
Progres  des  etudes  ethiopiennes,  14. 
Racconti  e  canti  bileni,  64,  70. 

La  redazione  etiopica  della  preghiera  della  Vergine, 
47. 

Ricordo  di  un  soggiorno  in  Eritrea,  18. 
Storia  di  Lebna  Dengel,  35. 
Sud  ar[abico]  asad  =  et[iopico]  anbasa,  23. 
Sulla  dinastia  Zague,  35. 

Sulla  versione  e  sulla  revisione  delle  sacre  scritture 

in  etiopico,  20. 
Testi  in  lingua  harari,  69. 

Tradizioni  Beni  Amer,  Algheden  e  Sabderat,  70. 

Tradizioni  storiche  dei  Mensa,  70. 

La  versione  amarica  del  Be'ela  Nagast,  28. 

Yicende  dell'  Etiopica,  35. 
Conzelman,  William  Eliot: 

Chronique  de  Galawdewos,  34. 
Cornill,  Carl  Heinrich: 

Das  Buch  der  weisen  Philosophen,  32. 

Das  Glaubensbekenntniss  des  Jacob  Baradaeus,  52. 

Die  Monche  Maximus  und  Dumatewos,  50. 

Noch  eine  Handschrift  des  "Sapiens  Sapientium," 
32. 

See  also  under  Jacob  bar  Theophilus,  52;  Mashafa, 
32. 

Corpus  iuris  Abessinorum.  .  .edidit  Bachmann,  30. 
Corpus  scriptorum  Christianorum  Orientalium,  18. 
Corso,  Raffaele: 

Proverbi  giuridici  abissini,  64. 
Coulbeaux,  P.  S.,  and  J.  Schreiber: 

Dictionnaire  de  la  langue  tigrai,  72. 
La  Cronaca  reale  abissinia,  34. 
Cronica  de  Susenyos,  35. 
Cust,  Robert  Needham,  1821-1909: 

Ethiopic  branch,  20. 

The  Hamitic  languages,  20. 
Cyprian,  Saint: 

Les  prieres  de  S.  Cyprien,  56. 
Cyril,  Saint,  of  Alexandria,  d.  444: 

Cyrilli  de  Melchisedec  homilia,  50. 

Epistola  Cyrilli  ad  Joannem,  50. 

Sermon  sur  la  penitence,  50. 


D 

Dawana  nafas,  35. 

Deane,  William  John,  1823-1895: 

The  Apocalypse  of  Baruch,  42. 

Ascension  of  Isaiah,  45. 

The  Book  of  Enoch,  43. 

The  Book  of  Jubilees,  44. 
Desnoyers,  L.: 

Le  synaxaire  ethiopien,  57. 
Didascalia  Apostolorum,  50. 
La  Didascalie  ethiopienne,  50. 

Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August,  1823-1894: 
Beitrage  aus  dem  Buch  der  Jubilaen,  44. 
Bemerkungen  zu  dem  athiopischen  Pastor  Hermae, 
46. 

Bemerkungen  zur  Grammatik  des  Geez,  23. 
Bericht  uber  das  athiopische  Buch  Clementinischer 

Schriften,  47. 
Chrestomathia  Aethiopica,  29. 
Das  Christliche  Adambuch,  48. 

Ethiopic  grammar,  translated  by  J.  A.  Crichton,  23. 

Grammatik  der  Athiopischen,  23. 

Grammatik  der  Athiopischen,  Zweite  Auflage,  23. 

Lexicon  linguae  Aethiopicae,  23. 

Noch  einige  Bemerkungen  zum  Buch  Henoch,  43. 


80 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Dillmann,  Christian  Friedrich  August,  continued. 
Ueber  die  beiden  athiopischen  Inschriften  von  Axum, 
38. 

Uber  die  Regierung,  35. 

Zur  Geschichte  des  abyssinischen  Reichs,  35. 

See  also  under  Bible:  Apocrypha,  42;  British  Mu- 
seum, 13. 
Dioscorus,  Saint: 

Anaphora,  53. 
Documenta  ad  illustrandam  historiam,  35. 
Dorn,  Johannes  Albrecht  Bernhard,  1805-1881: 

De  Psalterio  aethiopico  commentatio,  40. 

Ueber  die  aethiopischen  Handschriften,  St.-Peters- 
bourg,  14. 

Drechsler,  Christoph  Moritz  Bernhard  Julius,  1804- 
1850: 

De  Aethiopicae  linguae  conjugationibus,  23. 
Drouin,  Ed.: 

Deux  chroniques  ethiopiennes,  35. 
Duensing,  Hugo: 

Ein  Brief  des  abessinischen  Konigs  Asnaf  Sagad,  35. 


E 

Eadie,  John  Inglis: 

An  Amharic  reader,  64. 
Eitan,  Israel: 

Ethiopic  and  Hebrew  etymologies,  23. 

Utilite  de  l'ethiopien,  23. 
Enseignements  de  Jesus-Christ  a  ses  disciples,  56. 
Epiphanius,  Saint: 

Anaphora  of,  53. 
Epistle  of  Pelagia,  60. 
Die  Erzahlung  der  Sibylle,  49. 
Esteves  Pereira,  Francisco  Maria,  1854-1924: 

A  poesia  etiopica,  20. 

Acta  Martyrum,  59. 

Cronica  de  Susenyos,  35. 

Duas  homilias  sobre  S.  Tome,  50. 

Historia  dos  martyres  de  Nagran,  59. 

Homilia  sobre  o  baptismo  de  N.  S.  Jesus  Christo, 
50,  51. 

Homilia  de  Proclo,  52. 

Homilia  sobre  as  vodas  de  Cana,  51. 

Homilias  de   S.  Joao  Chrysostomo  na  litteratura 
ethiopica,  51. 

Jacob  of  Nisibis,  edidit  Esteves  Pereira,  52. 

Martyrio  do  Abba  Isaac  de  Tiphre,  59. 

Martyrio  de  santa  Emerayes,  60. 

Vida  do  Abba  Samuel,  60. 

Vida  de  S.  Gregorio,  patriarcha  da  Armenia,  60. 
Vida  de  S.  Paulo  de  Thebas,  60. 
Vida  de  Santa  Maria  Egypcia,  60. 
Vida  de  santo  Abunafre,  60. 
Vie  de  sainte  Marine,  60. 
Zena  Minas,  Historia  de  Minis,  38. 
See  also  under  Bible.  —  Old  Testament:  Esther,  40; 
Goldschmidt,  Lazarus,  and  F.  M.  Esteves  Pereira. 
The  Ethiopians,  20. 

Ethiopic-Falasi   glossary,   translated   by   H.  Hirsch- 

feld,  24. 
Ethiopic  literature,  20. 
Euringer,  Sebastian,  1865-  : 

Ein  abessinisches  Amulet,  56. 

Anaphora  des  hi.  Jakobus,  53. 

Anaphora  der  318  Rechtglaubigen,  53. 

Die  Auffassung  des  Hohenliedes,  29. 

Biblische  Ratsel,  29. 
Eusebius,  bishop  of  Heraclea: 

Homilia  Eusebii,  51. 

Traduction  de  la  version  ethiopienne  d'une  homelie 
d'Eusebe,  51. 

Eusebius  Pamphili,  c.  266-c.  340.     See  under  Gre- 

baut,  Sylvain,  Les  dix  canons,  30. 
Evagrius  Ponticus,  4.  cent.: 

Le  mauvaise  passion  de  la  colere,  51. 

Sentences,  51. 


Ewald,  Georg  Heinrich  August  von,  1803-1875: 

Abhandlung  iiber  des  athiopischen  Buches  Henokh, 
43. 

Die  aethiopischen  Handschriften  zu  Tubingen,  14. 

Ueber  den  Ursprung  des  S.  16-21  angezogenen 
aethiopischen  Christusbriefes,  47. 

Ueber  eine  zweite  Sammlung  aethiopischen  Hand- 
schriften, 14. 

See  also  under  Bible.  —  New  Testament:  Apoc- 
rypha. Mashafa  Tdmar,  46. 


F 

Faitlovitch,  Jacques: 

Une  lettre  amharique  des  Falachas,  64. 

Nouveaux  proverbes  abyssins,  64. 

Proverbes  abyssins,  64. 

Versi  abissini,  72. 
Fasti  sacri  ecclesiae  yEthiopicae,  29. 
Faulmann,  Carl: 

Athiopisch  und  Amharisch,  24. 
Fekkare  Iyasous,  47. 

Fetha  Nagast.  Corpus  iuris  Abessinorum,  30. 
"Fetha  Nagast"  o  "Legislazione  dei  re,"  29. 
"Fetha  Nagast"  o  "Legislazione  dei  re,"  tradotto,  29. 
Filpos,  Echage: 

II  Libro  delle  leggende,  29. 
Finkelstein,  Louis: 

The  Book  of  Jubilees,  44. 
Firmus,  bishop  of  (Cappadocian)  Caesarea,  d.  439: 

Homilia  Firmi,  51. 

Traduction  d'une  homelie  de  Firmus,  51. 
Flad,  Johann  Martin,  1831-1915: 

Dr.  Barth's  Bible-stories  (in  Amharic),  63. 

Zwolf  Jahre  in  Abessinien,  68. 
Flemming,  Johannes  Paul  Gotthilf,  1859-1914: 

Buch  Henoch  herausgegeben  von,  42. 

Hiob  Ludolf,  20. 

Die  neue   Sammlung  abessinischen  Handschriften, 
Berlin,  15. 
Fran^on,  J.: 

La  Didascalie  ethiopienne,  50. 
Frankel,  Zacharias,  1801-1875: 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen,  44. 
Fries,  Karl  Henrik  August,  1861—  : 

The  Ethiopic  legend  of  Socinius  and  Ursula,  56. 

Weddase  Marjam,  54. 
Fumagalli,  Giuseppe,  1863-  : 

Bibliografia  etiopica,  15. 
Furlani,  Giuseppe: 

Un  trattado  etiopico  sulla  Trinita,  51. 


G 

Gabru,  Kantiba: 

A  short  guide  of  Amharic  grammar,  64. 
Gadla  Adam,  47,  48. 
II  "Gadla  'Aragawi,"  61. 
Gadla  Jdfqerana  'EgzV ,  62. 
II  Gadla  Libanos,  60. 
II  Gadla  Sadqan,  60. 
Gadla  Takla  Haymanot,  60. 

"Gadla  Takla  Haymanot"  secondo  la  redazione  wal- 
debbana,  59. 

Galawdewos  (Claudius),  king  of  Abyssinia,  d.  1559: 

Chronique,  34. 

Confessio  fidei,  30. 

The  confession  of  Claudius,  30. 

[Letter  to  Joao  ill.  of  Portugal],  30. 
Gallina,  Francesco,  1861-  : 

Indovinelli  tigray,  72. 

Iscrizioni  etiopiche  ed  arabe  in  S.  Stefano,  39. 
Gerlach,  Otto  von: 

Forklaring    ofver   Johannes'    Evangelium    pa  am- 
hariska,  64. 

Gesenius,  Friedrich  Heinrich  Wilhelm,  1786-1842: 
Die  amharische  Sprache,  64. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


SI 


Gesprache  Jesu  mit   seinen  Jungern,  ubersetzt  von 

Wajnberg.  48. 
Ghaleb,  R.  See  under  Raad,  A.,  and  R.  Ghaleb. 
Ginzberg.  Louis,  1863-  : 

Book  of  Adam,  48. 
Girard.  A.: 

Alphabet  abyssinien,  65. 

Glossaire  abyssin,  65. 
Glaser,  Eduard:  * 

Die  altabessinische  Inschrift  von  Matara,  39. 
Goldschmidt,  Lazarus,  1871—  : 

Die    abessinischen    Handschriften,    Frankfurt  am 
Main,  15. 

Bibliotheca  aethiopica,  15. 
Goldschmidt,  Lazarus,  and  F.  If.  Esteves  Pereira: 

Vida  do  Abba  Daniel  do  mosteiro  de  Scete,  60. 
Goltz,  Eduard  von  der: 

Unbekennte  Fragmente  altchristlicher  Gemeindeord- 
nungen,  53. 
Goodspeed,  Edgar  Johnson,  1871—  : 

The  Book  of  Thecla,  60. 

The  Epistle  of  Pelagia,  60. 

Ethiopic  manuscript  of  John's  gospel,  15. 

Ethiopic  manuscripts  from  collection  of  W.  Eames. 
15. 

The  martyrdom  of  Cyprian  and  Justa,  60. 

The  story  of  Eugenia  and  Philip,  61. 

Tertag  and  Sarkis,  30. 
Gorgoryos,  Abba: 

Briefe  des  Abba  Gregorius,  30. 

Epistola  Gregor.  ad  J.  Ernst.   Princ.  Saxon.,  30. 

Epistola  Gregorii  ad  J.  Ludolfum,  30. 

Lamentatio  Gregorii,  30. 
Gover,  Miss  If.  B.: 

An  "Abyssinian"  vocabulary,  24. 
Grammaire  amarigna,   par  un  missionaire  Lazariste, 
65. 

Grebaut.  Sylvain: 

A  propos  de  l'anaphore  de  saint  Athanase,  54. 

A  propos  de  l'ange  Temlakos,  48. 

A  propos  de  la  Reine  de  Saba,  30. 

Additions  morphologiques  au  Lex.  de  Dillmann,  23. 

Apercu  sur  les  miracles  de  notre-Seigneur,  49. 

Le  benedicite  ethiopien,  54. 

Calculs  et  tables,  30. 

Chronologie  biblique,  30. 

Chronologie  des  patriarches  d'Alexandrie,  30. 
La  conjonction  finale  la,  24. 

Contributions  a  la  philologie  ethiopienne,  23,  24. 

Courtes  additions  au  Lex.  de  Dillmann,  23. 

Courtes  notes  de  grammaire.  24. 

Les  dix  canons  d'Eusebe  et  d'Ammonius,  30. 

Dix  proverbes  ethiopiens,  30. 

Exhortations  aux  anchoretes,  51. 

Fin  du  martyre  d' Athanase  de  Clysma,  61. 

Fragment  ascetique,  51. 

Un  fragment  de  menologe  ethiopien,  58. 

Histoire  de  l'apostasie  du  diacre  Leonce,  51. 

Hymne  a  Jesus-Christ,  54. 

Les  jours  fastes  et  nefastes,  30. 

La  lettre  et  la  notice  finales  du  vieillard  spirituel.  30. 
Liste  des  patriarches  d'Alexandrie,  35. 
Liste  des  rois  d'Axoum,  36. 
Litterature  ethiopienne  pseudo-clementine,  48. 
Ms.  ethiopien  du  Trocadero,  15. 
Mss.  ethiopiens  de  M.  X.  Bergey,  15. 
Manuscrits  ethiopiens  appartenant  a  M.  X.  Bergey. 
15. 

Manuscrits  ethiopiens  de  M.  E.  Delorme,  15. 
Les  martyrs  d'Akmin.  58. 

Le  mauvaise  passion  de  la  colere  selon  Evagrius,  51. 

Melanges  ethiopiens.  31. 

Menologes  ethiopiens,  58. 

Miracle  des  saints  Cyr  et  Jean,  61. 

Les  miracles  de  l'archange  Ragou'el,  48. 

Les  Miracles  de  Jesus,  49. 

Les  Miracles  du  saint  enfant  Cyriaque,  61. 

Xote  de  chronologie  biblique,  31. 

Xote  sur  la  poesie  ethiopienne,  20. 


Grebaut.  Sylvain,  continued. 

Xotice  sur  Matthieu  l'Evangeliste.  51. 
La  Pentecote  et  la  mission  des  apotres,  48. 
Priere  pour  conjurer  les  demons,  56. 
La  priere  de  Langinos.  51. 
Le  "propre"  du  Synaxaire,  58. 
Quelques  menologes  ethiopiens,  58. 
Recherches  philologiques  en  Ethiopie,  15. 
Rectifications  lexicographiques.  23. 
References  et  examples  a  ajouter  au  Lex.  de  Dill- 
mann, 23. 

Les  relations  entre  Abgar  et  Jesus,  48. 
La  saison  des  pluies,  31. 
Salam  a  la  Vierge  Marie.  54. 
Salomon  et  la  Reine  de  Saba.  31. 
Sargis  d'Aberga,  52. 
Sentences  ascetiques,  51. 
Sentences  d'Evagrius,  51. 

Les  sept  cieux  et  les  sept  cercles  de  la  terre,  49. 

Les  sept  dormants  d'Ephese.  31. 

Severus.  ibn  al-Mukaffa,  Histoire,  38. 

Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien,  57. 

Table  de  comput,  31. 

Table  des  levers  de  la  lune.  31. 

Un  tableau  de  lectures  monacales.  31. 

Traduction  d'une  homelie  d'Eusebe,  51. 

Traduction  d'une  homelie  de  Firmus,  51. 

Les  tribus  d'origine  des  apotres,  31. 

Trois    appendices    aux    relations    entre    Abgar  et 

Jesus.  49. 
Vie  de  Barsoma  le  Syrien,  61. 
Vocables  etrangers,  23. 

See  also  under  Conti  Rossini,  Carlo,  II  libro  delle 
legende,  29;  Guerrier,  L.,  and  S.  Grebaut. 
Gregorius.  Sec  under  Gorgoryos. 
Gregory.  St.,  brother  of  Basil: 

Anaphora  of,  53. 
Gregory  the  Armenian,  Saint: 

Anaphora  of,  53. 
Grohmann,  Adolf: 

Aethiopische  Marienhymnen,  54. 

Eine  Alabasterlampe,  39. 

Reste  einer  neuen  Rezension  der  Kindheitsgeschichte 
Jesu,  49. 

Studien  zu  den  Cyprianusgebeten,  56. 
La  Guerre  de  Sarsa-Dengel  contre  les  Falachas.  36. 
Guerrier,  Louis: 

Le  Testament  en  Galilee  de  Xotre-Seigneur  Jesus- 
Christ,  49. 

Un  "Testament  de  notre-Seigneur  et  Sauveur,"  49. 
Un  texte  ethiopien  du  symbole  de  saint  Athanase, 
61. 

Guerrier,  Louis,  and  S.  Grebaut: 

Les  canons  du  concile  de  Gangres,  36. 
Guidi,  Ignazio,  1844—  : 

A  propos  d'une  nouvelle  edition  du  Lex.  de  Dill- 
mann, 23. 

Abissinia.  Ge'ez.  Amarico,  Tigrino,  etc.,  15. 

Der  athiopische  "Senados,"  51. 

Annales  regum  Iyasu  n.  et  Iyo'as,  33. 

Gli  archivi  in  Abissinia,  36. 

Gli  atti  apocrifi  degli  apostoli,  61. 

Ba-Hayla-Mika'el,  47. 

Bahrey.  Zena  Galla  curante  Guidi,  34. 

II  Be'ela  nagast,  28. 

Le  canzoni  geez-amarifia,  31. 

Contributi  alia  storia  letteraria  di  Abissinia,  20. 
La  Cronaca  di  Galawdewos,  34. 
Di  alcuni  inni  abissini,  55. 

Di  due  frammenti  relativi  alia  storia  di  Abissinia, 
36. 

Documenti  amarina,  65. 

Due  antiche  preghiere  nel  Ritual  abissino  dei  De- 
fonti.  55. 

Due  notizie  storiche  sulT  Abissinia,  31. 
The  Ethiopic  Senkessar,  58. 
II  Fetha  Xagast,  29. 

La  forma  intensiva  nel  verbo  amarico,  65. 
II  "Gadla  'Aragawi,"  61. 


82 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Guidi,  Ignazio,  continued. 

Grammatica  elementare  della  lingua  amarina,  65. 

Historia  regis  Sarsa  Dengel,  36. 

La  leggenda  di  s.  Mattia  a  Bartos,  49. 

Leggende  storiche  di  Abissini,  36. 

II  "Marha  'Ewur,"  31. 

II  mashafa  genzat,  31. 

Nuovi  proverbi,  strofe  e  racconti  abissini,  65. 

I  popoli  e  le  lingue  di  Abissinia,  65. 

La  prima  stampa  del  Nuovo  Testamento  in  etiopico, 
20. 

Proverbi,  strofe  e  favole  abissine,  65. 
Proverbi,  strofe  e  racconti  abissini,  65. 
"Qene"  o  inni  abissini,  55. 
La  raccolta  di  qene  nel  ms.  d'Abbadie  145,  55. 
Sargis  d'Aberga,  52. 

II  Sawasew,  24. 

Sopra  due  degli  "Aethiopische  Lesestiicke"  del  Dr. 

Bachmann,  28. 
Una  squarcio  di  storia  ecclesiastica  di  Abissinia,  36. 
La  storia  di  Hayla  Mika'el,  61. 
Strofe  e  brevi  testi  amarici,  65. 
Strofe  e  favole  abissine,  65. 
Lo  studio  dell'  amarico  in  Europa,  65. 
Sulla  coniugazioni  del  verbo  amarico,  65. 
Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien,  57. 

Testi  orientali   inediti  sopra  i  sette  dormienti  di 
Efeso,  31. 

Textes   orientaux    inedits   du   martyre    de  Judas 

Cyriaque,  61. 
Traditionelle  Aussprache  des  Aethiopischen,  25. 
Le  traduzioni  degli  Evangelii  in  arabo  e  in  etiopico, 

20. 

Vocabolario  amarico-italiano,  65. 
II  Zena  Narga,  36. 
Guidi,  Michelangelo: 

Contributo  all'  agiografia  etiopica,  61. 


H 

Hackspill,  L.: 

Die  athiopische  Evangelienubersetzung,  15. 
Haffner,  August: 

Eine  athiopische  Darstellung  der  Abgar-Legende,  49. 

Eine  athiopische  Handschrift .  .  .  zu  den  pseudoepiph- 
anischen  Werken,  49. 
Hagos  Takkhasta: 

Neshtoi  terguim  'ertera,  72. 
Halevy,  Joseph,  1827-1917: 

[Arabic]  ansur  —  [Ethiopic]  'enzira,  24. 

Explication  d'une  amulette  ethiopien,  56. 

L'inscription  ethiopienne.  .  .de  Matara,  39. 

Un  juif  bienheureux,  31. 

Le  mot  arbuste,  24. 

Nouvelles  prieres  des  Falachas,  55. 

Prieres  des  Falachas,  56. 

Qoleyon,  31. 

Recherches  sur  la  langue  du  livre  d'Enoch,  43. 
Remarque,  35. 
Te'ezaza  Sanbat,  33. 

Traces  d'influence  indo-parsie  en  Abyssinie,  20. 
See  also  under  Guerre. 
Harden,  John  Mason: 

Didascalia  Apostolorum,  50. 

Introduction  to  Ethiopic  Christian  literature,  20. 
Harper,  Robert  Francis,  1864-1914.   See  under  Prae- 

torius,  G.  F.  F.   Athiopische  Grammatik,  26. 
Harris,  James  Rendel,  1852-  : 

Aethiopic  fragments  of  the  sayings  of  Ahikar,  27. 
Harris,  Sir  William  Cornwallis,  1807-1848: 

Catalogue  of  extant  mss.  in  Ethiopic  and  Amharic,  15. 

Verzeichniss  vorhandener  Handschriften,  15. 
Hastr  zanta  mashaf  qcdus,  65. 
Hasse,  Johann  Gottfried,  1759-1806: 

Lectiones  Syro-Arabico-Samaritano-Aethiopicae,  24. 


Haupt,  Paul,  1858-1926: 

Hebrew  as  =  Ethiopic  enza,  24. 

Studies  on  comparative  grammar  of   Semitic  lan- 
guages, 24. 
Heider,  August: 

Die  aethiopische  Bibelubersetzung,  20. 
Hermae  Pastor,  46. 

See  also  under  Ethiopic  literature,  20. 
Hess,  J.  J.: 

Bemerkungen  zu  einigen  arabischen  Wortern,  24. 
Das  Hexaemeron  des  Pseudo-Epiphanius,  49. 
Hirschfeld,  Hartwig.   See  under  Ethiopic-Falasi  glos- 
sary, 24. 
Histoire  d'Eskender  [etc.],  36. 
Histoire  des  guerres  d"Amda  Syon,  36. 
Historia  dos  martyres  de  Nagran,  59. 
Historia  regis  Sarsa  Dengel,  36. 

Homilia  /Ethiopica  de  nativitate  Domini  Nostri,  50. 
Homilia  de  Proclo,  52. 
Hommel,  Fritz,  1854-  : 

Der  athiopische  Physiologus  iibersetzt,  31. 

Die  aethiopische  Uebersetzung  des  Physiologus,  31. 

Die  Saugethiernamen  der  Athiopen,  24. 
Horner,  George  William,  1850?-  : 

Statutes  of  the  Apostles,  53. 
Horovitz,  Josef: 

Das  athiopische  Maccabaerbuch,  45. 
Hottinger,  Johann  Heinrich,  1620-1667: 

De  libris  /Ethiopicis,  15. 

Etymologicum  Orientale,  24. 
Hupfeld,  Hermann  Christian  Karl  Friedrich,  1796- 
1866: 

Exercitationes  aethiopicae,  24. 
Hurwitz,  Solomon  Theodore  Halevy,  1886-1920: 

Root  determinatives  in  Semitic  speech,  24. 
Hymns  of  the  Abyssinian  Church,  by  Rodwell,  55. 
Hyvernat,  Eugene  Xavier  Louis  Henry,  1858-  : 

See    under    Chaine,    Marius.      Grammaire  ethi- 
opienne, 22. 


I 

Imperatorskaya  Publichnaya  Bibliotheka,  St.  Peters- 
burg: 

Catalogue  des  manuscrits,  16. 
Isenberg,  Karl  Wilhelm,  1806-1864: 

Dictionary  of  the  Amharic  language,  65. 

Grammar  of  the  Amharic  language,  65. 

Regni  Dei  in  terris  historia  amharice,  65. 
Italy.  —  Ministero  dell'  Istruzione  Pubblica: 

Cataloghi  dei  codici  orientali,  16. 


J 

Jacob  bar  Theophilus: 

Confession  of  Jacob  Baradaeus,  52. 

Glaubensbekenntniss,  52. 
Jacob  of  Nisibis: 

Homilia  de  adventu  regis  Persarum,  52. 
Jacquet,  Eugene  Vincent  Stanislas,  1811-1838: 

Observations  grammaticales  sur  un  specimen ...  de 
Tigre,  70. 
Jaeger,  Carl,  1875-  : 

Ueber  den  jiingsten  bisher  bekannten  hagiologischen 
Ge'eztext,  52. 
James  of  Serug,  Saint: 

Anaphora,  54. 
Jellenek,  Adolph,  1821-1893: 

Buch  der  Jubilaen,  44. 
John,  bishop  of  Antioch: 

Epistola  ad  Cyrillum  missa,  52. 

Traduction  d'une  lettre.  .  .a  Cyrille,  52. 
John,  bishop  of  Nikiu: 

Chronicle,  36. 

Chronique,  36. 

Memoire,  36. 


ETHIOPI'CA  AND  AMHARICA 


83 


John  Chrysostom,  Saint: 
Anaphora,  54. 

Duas  homilias  sobre  S.  Tome,  50. 
Homilia  sobre  o  baptismo  de  N.  S.  Jesus  Christo, 
50,  51. 

Homilia  sobre  as  vodas  de  Cana,  51. 
Oratio  eucharistica,  52. 
Joseph: 

Sargis  d'Aberga  (controverse  judeo-chretienne) ,  52. 
Juvenalius,  bishop  of  Jerusalem,  d.  458: 
Homilia,  52. 

Traduction  de  la  version  ethiopienne,  52. 


K 

Der   Kampf   Adams    (gegen   die   Versuchungen  des 

Satans),  47. 
Kebra  Nagast,  37. 
Kctab  fcdcl  'cb  tcgre,  71. 
Kidana  Wald: 

Abyssinian  apocalypses,  66. 
Klingenheben,  August: 

Amharisch  des  triglichen  Lebens,  65. 

Eine   amharische    Form   der  Wiedererkennungsge- 
schichte  der  Placidias-Legende,  65. 
Koenig,  Eduard,  1846-  : 

Neue  Studien  iiber  Schrift  [etc.],  24. 

Regeln  des  Pachomius,  32. 
Konigliche  Bibliothek  zu  Berlin: 

Die  Handschriften-Verzeichniss,  16. 
Kohler,  Kaufmann,  1843-1926: 

Book  of  Jubilees,  44. 
Kokovtzov,  P.: 

Zametka  ob  efiopskich  rukopisyach,  16. 
Kolmodin,  Johannes  Axel,  1884-  : 

Abessinische  Glossen,  65. 

Sur  la  date  du  ms.  ethiopien  d'Abbadie  105,  16. 

Traditions  de  Tsazzega  et  Hazzega,  72. 

Uber  die  3.  pers.  masc.  sing.  perf.  im  Tigre,  70. 
Kramer,  Friedrich  Oswald: 

Die  iithiopische  Cbersetzung  des  Zacharias,  41. 
Krapf,  Johann  Ludwig,  1810-1881: 

The  present  literature  of  Abessinia,  21. 

See  also  under  Bible.  Gospels  and  Acts,  46. 


L 

Laing,  David,  1793-1878: 

Brief  notice  of  an  ancient  ms.,  16. 
Langinos,  Abba: 

La  priere,  51. 
Leander,  Pontus  Adalbert,  1872-  : 

'Arganona  ueddase,  54. 

Nagra  anteckningar  till  Ge'ez-sprakets  historia,  21. 
Lefebvre,    Charlemagne    Theophile,    1811-1860,  and 
others: 

Voyage  en  Abyssinie,  66,  72. 
Legend  of  Hilaria,  62. 

Les  Legendes  de  S.  Tertag  et  de  S.  Sousnyos,  49. 
Le  Long,  Jacques,  1665-1721: 

De  versione  Aethiopica,  16. 
Lepsius,  Karl  Richard,  1810-1884: 

Uber  die  Anordnung  [etc.],  21. 
Le  Roux,  Robert  Charles  Henri,  called  Hugues,  1860- 
1925: 

Chez  la  reine  de  Saba,  37. 
Lettera  di  Menilek  n.,  66. 

Lettere   da    Entotto   dell'  imperatore    Menilek   e  del 

dott.  Traversi,  66. 
Liber  Axumae,  35. 

Life  and  exploits  of  Alexander  the  Great,  31,  32. 
Life  of  Takla  Haymanot,  Budge,  58. 
Littmann,  Enno,  1875—  : 

Abessinische  Glossen,  70. 

Abessinische  Miszellen,  25. 

Abyssinian  Apocalypses,  66. 


Littmann,  Enno,  continued. 

Die    athiopischen    Handschriften    im  griechischen 

Kloster  zu  Jerusalem,  16. 
Die  altamharischen  Kaiserlieder,  66. 
Amharische  Tanzlieder  der  Galla,  66. 
Arde'et:  the  magic  book  of  the  Disciples,  56. 
Aus  dem  abessinischen  Klostern  in  Jerusalem,  16. 
Bemerkungen  zu  den  neuen  Harari-Texten,  69. 
Canzone  tigre  in  onore  del  governatore  italiano,  70. 
Ge'ez  Studien,  25. 

Geschiohte  der  athiopischen  Litteratur,  21. 
Harari-Studien,  69. 
Indien  und  Abessinien,  25. 
Legend  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba,  70. 
Manuscripts,  16. 

Munchener  abessinischen  Amulet,  57. 
Ein  nordabessinisches  Heldenlied,  70. 
Die  Partikel  ma  im  Harari,  69. 
The  Princeton  Ethiopic  magic  roll,  57. 
Die  Pronomina  im  Tigre,  70. 

Sabaische,  griechische,  und  altabessinische  Inschrif- 
ten,  39. 

Semitische  Stammessagen  der  Gegenwart,  70. 
Semitische  Volkspoesie  in  Abessinien,  66. 
Specimens  of  popular  literature  of  modern  Abyssinia, 

70,  73. 
Tigre-Erzahlungen,  71. 
Tigre  language,  71. 

Tigrina-Texte  im  Dialekte  von  Tanben,  73. 

Das  Verbum  der  Tigresprache,  71. 

Zu  A.  W.  Schleicher's  "Geschichte  der  Galla,"  34. 

See  also  under  Bibliotheca  Abessinica,  18. 
Liturgia    aethiopica    in    aethiopum  constitutionibus 

apostolicis  adservata,  55. 
Liturgia  S.  Matthau  Apostoli,  55. 
Liturgy  of  the  Abyssinian  Jacobites,  55. 
Liturgy  of  the  Church  of  Ethiopia,  55. 
Lives  of  Maba'  Seyon  and  Gabra  Krestos,  59. 
Le  livre  du  Coq,  50. 
Ludolf,  Hiob,  1624-1704: 

Grammatica  -Ethiopica,  25. 

Grammatica  linguae  Amharicae,  66. 

Historia  -Ethiopica,  21. 

Lexicon  Amharico-Latinum,  66. 

Lexicon  /Ethiopico-Latinum,  25. 

New  history  of  Ethiopia,  21. 
Lund,  Johann  Ludwig  Michael,  1844-      ■  : 

An  Ethiopian  manuscript,  16. 
Lundgren,   Fr.    See  under  Norlen,  Wilh.,  and  Fr. 

Lundgren. 
Luther,  Martin,  1483-1546: 

Katekesimo,  71. 

II  piccolo  catechismo.  .  .in  lingua  tigre,  71. 


M 

Madden,  Sir  Frederick,  1801-1873.   See  under  British 

Museum,  p.  13. 
Magda,  queen  of  Sheba,  37. 
Mahler,  Ludwig: 

Praktische  Grammatik  der  amharischen  Sprache,  66. 
Mai,  Angelo,  Cardinal,  1782-1854: 

Codices  aethiopici  Bibliothecae  Vaticanae,  16. 
Malan,  Solomon  Caesar,  1812-1894: 

The  Book  of  Adam  and  Eve,  48. 
Margoliouth,  David  Samuel,  1858-  : 

Ethiopic  literature,  21. 
Martin,  Frangois,  1867—  : 

Ascension  d'Isaie,  45. 
Martyrdom  of  Cyprian  and  Justa,  60. 
Martyrdom  of  Saint  Minas,  61. 
Martyrio  do  Abba  Isaac  de  Tiphre,  59. 
Martyrio  de  santa  Emerayes,  60. 
Mashafa  falasfa  Tabltdn,  32. 
Mashafa  gadla  Hazvaryat,  57. 
Mashafa  temqat,  54. 

Massaia,  Guglielmo,  Cardinal,  1809-1889: 
Lectiones  grammaticales,  66. 


84 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Matzhafa  Dorho.    See  Chaine,  Marius.    Le  livre  du 
Coq,  50. 

Mazgaba  qalat  ba'amharinfia.  See  Ludolf,  Hiob,  66. 
Mazmur  salam,  66. 

Menilek  n.,  King  of  Abyssinia,  d.  1913: 

Lettera,  66. 
Mercer,  Samuel  Alfred  Browne,  1880-  : 

Anaphora  of  the  holy  and  blessed  John,  53. 

Anaphora  of  Our  Lady  Mary,  53. 

Anaphora  of  Our  Lord,  53. 

Anaphora  of  St.  Dioscorus,  52. 

Anaphora  of  Saint  Epiphanius,  53. 

Anaphora  of  Saint  Gregory  the  Armenian,  53. 

Anaphora  of  St.  Gregory,  brother  of  Basil,  53. 

Anaphora  of  Saint  James  of  Serug,  54. 

Anaphora  of  St.  John  Chrysostom,  54. 

Anaphora  of  the  318  Orthodox,  54. 

The  epiclesis  in  the  Ethiopic  liturgy,  55. 

Ethiopic  grammar,  25. 

The  Ethiopic  liturgy,  55. 
Merx,  Adalbert,  1838-1909.      See  under  Beurmann, 

Moritz  von. 
Michael,  Bishop,  translator: 

Mashafa  falasfa  Tabitan,  32. 
Mikha'Il  Jirgis  al  Habashi: 

Al-Malhat,  25. 
Miracles  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary,  61. 
Les  Miracles  de  Jesus,  49. 

Missa  Aethiopum  quae  etiam  appellatur  Canon  Uni- 
versalis, 55. 
Mittwoch,  Eugen,  1876-  : 

Abessinische  Erzahlungen  und  Fabeln,  66. 
Abessinische  Kinderspiele,  66. 
Abessinische  Studien,  18. 
Ein  amharischer  Text  iiber  Muhammed,  66. 
Bemerkungen  zur  amharischen  Chronik  Konig  Theo- 
dors,  68. 

Der  deutsch-athiopische  Freundschafts-  und  Handels- 

vertrag,  66. 
Dochanhoi,  67. 

Excerpte  aus  dem  Koran,  67. 
Italienischer  Brief,  21. 

Literarisches  Morgenrot  in  Abessinien,  67. 

Proben  aus  amharischen  Volksmunde,  67. 

Traditionelle  Aussprache  des  Athiopischen,  25. 
Mondon-Vidailhet,  Francois  Marie  Casimir,  1847-1910: 

Les  dialectes  ethiopiens  du  gouraghe,  68. 

£tude  sur  le  harari,  69. 

fitudes  sur  le  guragie,  68. 

Grammaire  de  langue  abyssine,  67. 

La   langue   harari   et   les   dialectes   ethiopiens  du 
gouraghe,  69. 

Manuel  pratique  de  langue  abyssine,  67. 

Proverbes  abyssins,  67. 

Le  rhetorique  ethiopienne,  32. 

Une  tradition  ethiopienne,  32. 
Monumenta  Aethiopiae  hagiologica,  edidit  B.  Turayev, 

19,  57. 
Mountsier,  Robert: 

An  Abyssinian  "Book  of  prayers,"  16. 
Mueller,  David  Heinrich,  1846-1914: 

Epigraphische  Denkmaler  aus  Abessinien,  39. 

Die  Obelisk-Inschrift  bei  Matara,  39. 

On  the  inscriptions  from  Yeha  and  Aksum,  39. 
Mueller,  Friedrich,  1834-1898: 

Die  athiopischen  Handschrif ten  in  Wien,  16. 

Lvber  die  Harari-Sprache,  69. 

Ueber   den   Ursprung   der  himjarisch-athiopischen 
Schrift,  25. 

Munzinger,  Johann  Albert  Werner,  1832-1875: 

La  langue  tigre,  71. 

Vocabulaire  de  la  langue  tigre,  71. 

See  also  under  Dillmann,  C.  F.  A.  Lexicon  linguae 
Aethiopicae,  23. 
Murray,  Alexander,  1775-1813: 

Account  of  Ethiopic  mss.,  16. 

List  of  Ethiopic  mss.  from  Habbesh,  16. 

Particular  account  of  Ethiopic  mss.,  17. 

Vocabulary  of  the  Amharic  [etc. J  languages,  67. 


N 

Na'od  ('Ambasa  Bazar),  King  of  Abyssinia,  d.  1508: 

Scllasc,  32. 
Nau,  Francois  Nicolas,  1864-  : 

Ba-Hayla-Mika'el,  Note  additionnelle,  47. 

Note  sur  le  texte  grec  du  Sargis  d'Aberga,  52. 

Notices  des  manuscrits  syriaque,  ethiopiens,  etc.,  17. 

La  version  ethiopienne  [of  Ahikar],  27. 
Neshtoi  terguim  'crtera,  72. 
Nicoletti-Altimari,  Arnoldo: 

Tradizioni  e  leggende  abissine,  32. 
Nisselius,  Johann  Georg,  d.  1662.  See  under  Bible.  — 

New  Testament:  Jude,  46. 
Nix,  L.: 

Zur  Erklarung  der  semitischen  Verbalformen,  25. 
Noeldeke,  Theodor,  1836-  : 
Die  athiopische  Literatur,  21. 
Epigraphische  Denkmaler  aus  Abessinien,  39. 
Lehnworter  in  und  aus  dem  Athiopischen,  25. 
Ein  neuer  Tigre-Text,  71. 
Tigre-Lieder,  71. 
Tigre-Texte,  71. 
Zar,  67. 

Zur  Alexiuslegende,  32. 

Zwei  abessinische  Deisten,  33. 
Norlen,  Wilh.,  and  Fr.  Lundgren: 

Storia  sacra.  .  .in  lingua  tigre,  71. 
Nouvelles  prieres  des  Falachas,  55. 

Nyberg,  H.  S.   See  under  Mercer,  S.  A.  B.,  Ethiopic 
grammar,  24. 


o 

Offeio,  Francesco  da,  1870-  : 

Grammatica  della  lingua  tigrai,  73. 

Nay  khankhua  'italya  sewasew,  73. 

Proverbi  abissini  in  lingua  tigray,  73. 
O'Leary,  De  Lacy  Evans,  1872-  : 

Comparative  grammar  of  the  Semitic  languages,  25. 
L'Omilia  di  Yohannes,  vescovo  d'Aksum,  52. 
Oratio  Eucharistica  Domini  &  Salvatoris  nostri  Iesu 
Christi,  55. 

The  Ordinary  canon  of  the  Mass,  according  to  use 

of  Coptic  Church,  55. 
Ordo  baptismi  secundum  usum  ^Ethiopum,  55. 
Otho,  Andreas: 

Glossarium  linguarum  orientalium  octuplex,  25. 
Otho,  Georg,  1634-1713: 

Synopsis  institutionum  Samaritanarum,  26. 


P 

Pachomius,  Saint,  c.  292-c.  346: 

Die  Regeln  des  Pachomius,  32. 

Regulae  Pachomii,  32. 

Rules  of  Pachomius,  32. 
Patrologia  orientalis    [edited  by  R.   Graffin  and  F. 

Nau],  19. 
Paulitschke,  Philipp,  1854-  : 

Beitrage  zur  Ethnographie  der  Somal,  Galla  und 
Harari,  69. 
Pawlos,  Monk,  16  c: 

Autobiografia,  59. 
Peeters,  Paul: 

Antoine  le  neo-martyr,  61. 
Pereira,  Francisco  Maria  Esteves.    See  Esteves  Pe- 

reira,  Francisco  Maria. 
Perini,  Ruffillo,  1848-  : 

GV  idiomi  parlati  nella  nostra  Colonia,  26. 

Manuale  teorico-pratico  della  lingua  tigre,  71. 
Perruchon,  Jules,  d.  1907: 

AperQu  grammatical  de  la  langue  amharique,  67. 

Ba-Hayla-Mika'el,  traduit  par,  47. 

Chroniques  de  Zar'a  Ya'qob,  34. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


85 


Perruchon,  Jules,  continued. 

Deux  notes  ethiopiennes,  32. 

Histoire  d'Eskender,  36. 

Histoire  des  guerres  d'Amda  Syon,  36. 

Legendes  relatives  a  Dawit  II.,  37. 

Notes  pour  l'histoire  d'fithiopie,  37. 

Le  pays  de  Zague,  37. 

Vie  de  Lalibala,  roi  d'£thiopie,  61. 

See  also  under  Victorias. 
Petraeus,  Theodor.    See  under  Bible.  —  New  Testa- 
ment: Jude,  46. 
Philippi,  Ferdinand: 

Das  Buch  Henoch,  43. 
Physiologus,  Die  aethiopische  Uebersetzung  des  (Horn- 

mel),  31. 
Piatt,  Thomas  Pell,  1798-1852: 

Catalogue  of  Ethiopic  Biblical  manuscripts,  17. 

Didascalia  Apostolorum,  50. 
Plazkowski,  Hermine  (Brauner),  1888-  : 

Ein  athiopisch-amharisches  Glossar,  26. 
Praetorius,  Georg  Friedrich  Franz,  1847-1927: 

Die  abessinischen  Dialekte  und  das  Sabao-Minaische, 
26. 

Athiopisch  ser'  'Griechenland,'  26. 
Athiopische  Bibelubersetzungen,  21. 
Athiopische  Etymologien,  26. 
Athiopische  Grammatik,  26. 
Die  Amharische  Sprache,  67. 

Beitrage  zur  athiopischen  Grammatik  und  Etymo- 
logic 26. 

Bemerkungen  zu  Bezold's  Kcbra  nagast,  37. 

Bemerkungen  zu  Takla  Haywaryat,  62. 

Fabula  de  regina  Sabaea,  37. 

Grammatik  der  Tigrifiasprache,  73. 

Hamatische  Bestandtheile,  26. 

Kuschitische  Bestandtheile,  26. 

Litteratura  Aethiopica,  17. 

Der  Name  Adulis,  26. 

Noch  ein  Dualrest  im  Aethiopischen,  26. 

Sabaisches  und  Athiopisches,  26. 

Tigrina  Spriichworter,  73. 

Ueber  zwei  Tigrinadialekte,  73. 

Die  Zahlmethode  in  der  athiopischen  Gruppe,  26. 

Zur  aethiopisch-arabischen  Grammatik,  26. 
Prideaux,  William  Francis,  1840-1914: 

An  ancient  Ethiopic  manuscript,  17. 
Prieres  des  Falachas  ou  Juifs  d'Abyssinie,  56. 
Les  Prieres  c'e  la  Vierge  a  Bartos  et  au  Golgotha,  57. 
Princeton  University  Expedition  to  Abyssinia: 

Publications,  19,  71. 
Proclus.  bishop  of  Cyzicus: 

Homilia  acerca  de  Incarnagoao,  52. 
Proverbia  &  adagia  .Fthiopica,  33. 


Q 

Quaritch,  Bernard,  1819-1899: 

A  general  catalogue  of  books,  17. 
Qene  habasha,  72. 


R 

Raad,  A.  M.: 

Aper<;u  sur  les  langues  d'£thiopie,  21. 
Raad,  A.  M.,  and  R.  Ghaleb: 

La  cle  de  la  conversation  abyssine,  67. 
Ragusa-Moleti,  G.: 

Gli  Abissini  all'  esposizione  nationale,  67. 
Rahlfs,  Alfred,  1865-  : 

Nissel  und  Petraeus,  21. 

Uber  einige  alttestamentliche  Handschriften,  17. 
Uber  das  Fehlen  der  Makkabaerbucher,  45. 
Zu  den  altabessinischen  Konigsinschriften,  39. 
Reade,  George  H.: 

Ancient  vellum  manuscript,  17. 


Reckendorf,  Hermann,  1863-1924: 

Weitere  Duale  in  Aethiopischen,  26. 
Reckendorf,  S.: 

Ueber  den  Werth  der  alt-athiopischen  Pentateuch- 
Ubersetzung,  21. 
Rein,  G.  K.: 

Abessinien,  21. 
Reinisch,  Leo,  d.  1919: 

1st    Ge'ez    zarat    'camelopardalis'    etymologisch  = 
[Arabic]  zarrafah,  26. 

Das  personliche  Fiirwort  und  die  Verbalflexion,  26. 
Renaudot,  Eusebe,  the  younger,  1646-1720: 

Liturgiarum  orientalium,  56. 
Revue  de  l'Orient  chretien,  19. 
Rhodokanakis,  Nikolaus,  1876—  : 

Eine  athiopische  Zaubergebetrolle,  57. 

Die  athiopischen  Handschriften  zu  Wien,  17. 
Rodwell,  John  Medows,  1808-1900: 

.Ethiopic  liturgies  and  hymns,  75. 

Description  of  ms.  ^Ethiopic  Octateuch,  17. 

Hymns  of  the  Abyssinian  Church,  55. 

Translations  from  the  Ethiopic,  56. 
Rogers,  Robert  William,  1864-  : 

Catalogue  of  mss.  in  Haverford  College,  17. 
Roman,  Alcide: 

L'acquisition  du  ms.  ethiopien,  17. 

Examen  paleographique  de  quelques  chiffres,  17. 
Ronciglione,  Angelo  da,  1871—  : 

Manuale  amarico-italiano-f rancese,  67. 

Manuale  tigray-italiano-francese,  73. 
Roupp,  N.: 

Die  iilteste  athiopische  Handschrift,  17. 
The  Royal  chronicle  of  Abyssinia,  38. 
Rubin,  Salomon,  1823-1910: 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen,  44. 
Ruzicka,  Rudolf: 

Konsonantische    Dissimilation    in    den  semitischen 
Sprachen,  27. 


s 

Saba,  Jean.  See  under  Grebaut,  Sylvain.  La  lettre,  30. 
Sacy,   Antoine   Isaac   Silvestre,   baron   Silvestre  de, 
1758-1838: 

Mashafa  Henoc  nabiy,  43. 
Saga  Za-'ab.    See  under  Basset,  Rene  Marie  Joseph. 

Deux  lettres,  33. 
La  Sagesse  de  Sibylle,  49. 
Saineano,  Marius,  1869-  : 

L'Abyssinie  dans  la  seconde  moitie  du  xvie  siecle,  38. 
Salemann,  K.  G.-C: 

Report  on  collection  of  Ethiopic  mss.,  17. 
Salt,  Henry,  1780-1827: 

Vocabularies  of   the   Hurrur  and   southern  Galla 
dialects,  69. 

Voyage  to  Abyssinia,  67. 
Sapeto,  Giuseppe,  1819-1895: 

Prodromo  alio  studio  della  Cussitide  abissina,  27. 
Sarsa  Dengel,  Historia  regis,  36. 
Sarsa  Dengel,  King  of  Abyssinia: 

Letter  to  Philip  n.  of  Spain,  33. 
Scaliger,  Joseph  Juste,  1540-1609: 

Compvtvs  ecclesiae  Aethiopicae,  33. 
Schick,  Josef,  1859-  : 

Die  athiopischen  Versionen,  33. 
Schleicher,  A.  W.  See  under  Bahrey,  38. 
Schleifer,  J.: 

Die  Erzahlung  der  Sibylle,  49. 

Die  Weisheit  der  Sibylle,  52. 
Schmidt,  Nathaniel,  1862—  : 

Original  language  of  the  parables  of  Enoch,  43. 
Schodde,  George  Henry,  1854-1917: 

The  Apostolic  Canons,  50. 

Baptismal  book  of  the  Ethiopic  Church,  56. 

Beschreibung  einer  athiopischen  Handschrift,  17. 

The  Church  of  Ethiopia,  17. 

The  confession  of  Jacob  Baradaeus,  52. 


86 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


Schodde,  George  Henry,  continued. 
Herma  nabi,  46. 

Manuscript  of  the  Ethiopic  Psalter,  17. 

Remarks  on  the  Ethiopic,  21. 

Rules  of  Pachomius,  32. 

Specimens  of  Ethiopic  literature,  21. 

See  also  under  Bible.  —  Old  Testament:  Isaiah,  45. 
Schrader,  Eberhard,  1836-1908: 

De  linguae  aethiopicae,  27. 
Schreiber,  J.: 

Manuel  de  la  langue  tigrai,  73. 

See  also  under  Coulbeaux,  P.  S.,  and  J.  Schreiber, 
72. 

Schweinfurth,  Georg  August,  1836-1925: 

Abyssinische  Pflanzennamen,  27. 
Scrivener,  Frederick  Henry  Ambrose,  1813-1891: 

.  Plain  introduction  to  criticism  of  New  Testament,  18. 
Selikovitsch,  Goetzel: 

La  division  mystique  de  temps,  48. 
Sem'e  zaqedest  'Emrayes,  60. 
Senkesar,  or  Synaxaria,  58. 
Severianus  of  Gabala: 

Homilia  Severiani  Gabalorum,  53. 
Severus  ibn  al-Mukaffa: 

Histoire  des  Conciles,  38. 
Severus  of  Antioch: 

Encomium  on  Saint  Michael,  62. 
Severus  of  Synnada  in  Phrygia: 

Homilia  Severi,  53. 
Sillabario  della  lingua  tigre,  71. 
Sillabario  della  lingua  tigrigna,  73. 
Singer,  Wilhelm: 

Das  Buch  der  Jubilaen,  44. 
Singlas,  A.: 

Le  synaxaire  ethiopien,  57. 
Sonkosar  (Synaxaria,  Flos  Sanctorum),  58. 
Specimena  codicvm  orientalivm  conlegit  Tisserant,  17. 
Stade,  Bernhard,  1846-1906: 

De  Isaiae  vaticiniis  Aethiopicis,  45. 

De  Isaiae  vaticiniis  Aethiopicis  diatribe,  45. 

Ueber  den  Ursprung  der  Mehrlautigen,  27. 
Statutes  of  the  Apostles  or  Canones  ecclesiastici,  53. 
Storia  di  Hayla  Mika'el,  61. 
Story  of  Archelides,  62. 
The  Story  of  Eugenia  and  Philip,  61. 
Sundstrom,  G.  R.: 

Kannedom  om  lakemedel.  .  .i  Mansa',  71. 

En  Sang  pa  tigre-spraket,  71. 

Sjukdomar  ock  deras  behandling  av  infodingar  i 
Mansa',  71. 

Some  Tigre  texts,  71. 
Svenska  Missionsforbundet,  Stockholm: 

Cantici  di  Sion,  in  tigre,  71. 
Svenson,  K.: 

Berhan  bamangada,  67. 
Le  Synaxaire  ethiopien,  57. 
The  Synaxarium,  57. 

Synaxarium.   the   book   of    saints   of   the  Ethiopian 
Church,  75. 


T 

Talvacchia,  F.: 

II  rituale  etiopico,  56. 
Taufbuch  der  Aethiopischen  Kirche,  56. 
Taye,  Aleka.  See  under  Mittwoch,  Eugen.  Proben  aus 

amharischen  Volksmunde. 
Taylor,  Isaac,  1829-1901: 

The  Ethiopic  alphabet,  27. 
Te'ezaza  Sanbat,  33. 

Le  Testament  en  Galilee  de   Notre-Seigneur  Jesus- 
Christ,  49. 
Testamentum  Adami,  49. 

Testamentum  Adami,  Das  arabisch-iithiopische,  47. 
Teza,  Emilio,  1831-1912: 

La  Grammatica  amarina  del  Prof.  Guidi,  65. 
Theodosius,  archbishop  of  Alexandria: 

Saint  Michael  the  archangel,  62. 


Theodotus  of  Ancyra: 

Homilia  Theodoti,  53. 
Theophilus  of  Alexandria: 

Discorso  su  Monte  Coscam,  29. 
Tisserant,  Eugene,  1884-       .  See  under  Bible.  —  Old 
Testament:   Isaiah,  45;   Chaine,  Marius.  Gram- 
maire  ethiopienne,  22;  and  Specimen  codicvm,  18. 
Translations  from  the  Ethiopic,  by  Rodwell,  56. 
Trumpp,  Ernst,  1828-1885: 

Der  Kampf  Adams,  47. 

Kritische  Bemerkungen  zum  "Sapiens  Sapientium," 
32. 

Das  Taufbuch  der  Aethiopischen  Kirche,  56. 
Ueber  den  Accent  in  Aethiopischen,  27. 
Zum  Briefbuch,  46. 
Turayev,  Boris  Aleksandrovich,  1868-1920: 

Abissinskiye  svobodnyye  mysliteli  xvn  veka,  33. 
Efiopskiya  rukopisi  v  S.-Peterburgye,  18. 
Hatata  Zar'a  Yae'qob,  33. 
Izsledovaniya  v  oblasti,  38. 
Kopto-efiopskoye  skazaniye,  62. 
Monumenta  Aethiopiae  hagiologica,  19,  57. 
Novyya  sobraniya  efiopskich  rukopisci  v  Peterburgye, 
18. 

Orationes  falsae  i  exorcismi,  57. 
Sellase  za-neguse  Na'dd,  32. 
Zena  Dabra  Libanos,  38. 


V 

Varenbergh,  Joseph: 

Studien  zur  abessinischen  Reichsordnung,  33. 
Venerio,  Achille,  1561-1636,  editor.    See  under  Vit- 

torio,  Mariano. 
Victorias  de  Amda  Sion  rei  de  Ethiopia,  38. 
Vida  do  Abba  Samuel  do  mosteiro  do  Kalamon,  60. 
Vida  de  S.  Gregorio,  patriarcha  de  Armenia,  60. 
Vida  de  S.  Paulo  de  Thebas,  60. 
Vida  de  Santa  Maria  Egypcia,  60. 
Vida  de  Santo  Abunafre  (S.  Onuphrio),  60. 
Vie  de  Abba  Yohanni,  58. 
Vie  de  Barsoma  le  Syrien,  61. 
Vie  de  Lalibala,  roi  d'fithiopie,  61. 
Vie  et  office  de  sainte  Marine,  62. 
Vie  de  sainte  Marine,  60. 
Viscasillas,  Mariano: 

Paralelo  entre  los  verbas  defectivos  [etc.],  27. 
Vito,  Ludovico  de,  1858-1896: 

Esercizi  di  lettura  in  lingua  tigrigna,  73. 

Grammatica  elementare  della  lingua  tigrigna,  73. 

Vocabolario  della  lingua  tigrigna,  73. 
Vittorio,  Mariano: 

Chaldeae,  sev  Aethiopicae  lingvae  institvtiones,  27. 
Volkmar,  G.: 

Beitrage  zur  Erklarung  des  Buches  Henoch,  43. 

w 

W.: 

Bibliothek  Kaiser  Menelik's  des  zweiten,  18. 
Wajnberg,  Isaak,  1878-  : 

Gadla  Jafqerana  'EgzV ,  62. 

Gespriiche  Jesu,  48. 
Walda    Haywat.     See    under    Zar'a    Ya'qob.  The 

philosophy,  33. 
Walda  Maryam: 

Chronique  de  Theodoros  II.,  67. 
Walda  Sellase: 

Malek'e  za-Menilek,  33. 
Wansleben,  Johann  Michael,   1635-1679.    See  under 

Anaphora  of  St.  Dioscorus,  53. 
Weinzinger,    Erich.     See    under  Mondon-Vidailhet, 

F.  M.  C,  £tudes  sur  le  guragie,  68. 
Weld-Blundell,  Herbert  Joseph: 

History  of  King  Theodore,  67. 

Royal  Chronicle  of  Abyssinia,  38. 


ETHIOPICA  AND  AMHARICA 


87 


Welsford,  Henry: 

On  Ethiopic  language  and  grammar,  21. 
Wemmers,  Jacob,  d.  1645: 

Lexicon  Aethiopicvm,  27. 
Wensinck,  Arent  Jan: 

Legends  of  eastern  saints,  62. 
Weyh,  Wilhelm: 

Ein  athiopischer  Philosoph,  33. 
Weymann,  Karl  Friedrich: 

Die   aethiopische   und   arabische   tlbersetzung  des 
Pseudocallisthenes,  21. 
Winqvist,  C: 

Sillabario  nella  lingua  tigrinja,  73. 
Worrell,  William  Hoyt,  1879-  : 

Studien  zum  abessinischen  Zauberwesen,  57. 
Wright,  William,  1830-1889: 

Catalogue  Ethiopic  manuscripts  in  British  Museum, 
13. 

Lectures  on  comparative  grammar  of  Semitic  lan- 
guages, 27. 
List  of  Magdala  collection,  18. 
Wutz,  Franz  Xavier: 
Onomastica  sacra,  27. 

Y 

Yahabasa  tarat,  64. 
Yamarihna  sawasew,  64. 


Yohannes,  bishop  of  Aksum: 
Omilia  di  Yohannes,  52. 

Yonas,  Abba,  c.  1396-1491: 
Atti,  59. 


z 

Zaneb: 

Chronicle  of  King  Theodore  of  Abyssinia,  68. 

Geschichte  Abessiniens,  68. 
Zar'a  Ya'qob  (Qwastantinos) : 

Letter  to  monks,  53. 
Zar'a  Ya'qob: 

Chronique,  34. 
Zar'a  Ya'qob,  Monk,  1599-1692: 

Hatata,  33. 

The  philosophy  of  Zar'a  Ya'qob,  33. 
Zena  Minas,  Historia  de  Minas,  38. 
Zettersteen,  Karl  Vilhelm,  1866-  : 

Die  abessinischen  Handschriften  zu  Upsala,  18. 
Zimmern,  Heinrich,  1862-  : 

Vergleichende  Grammatik  der  semitischen  Sprachen, 
27. 

Zotenberg,  Hermann,  1836-  : 

Catalogue  des  manuscrits  ethiopiens,  13. 
Notice  sur  le  livre  de  Barlaam  et  Joasaph,  28. 
Notices  et  extraits  sur  le  chronique  de  Jean,  eveque 
de  Nikiou,  36. 


