:-rrnnK¥.<:,m^ 


^*?M^AI 


Ui,'!    TV"i\' 


i 


JJI3DNVS01^ 


%a3AlNll3WV 


..WtxiDiijyuc//- 


ijT  XJLt.    I 


%0JiTV3-J0^        %OJnV>-!0'^' 


ifCAt!FO% 


•S'AwaaiT^'V' 


^.v  CMIFO% 


waani^'^ 


V  L11C-,V^ 


<  «J  iU  !  ;j  i..  i-i^, , 


:i'JNV-SO' 


— •£::::X^SIES^c:;U^:;:;:t-^3'^^^^.-,^^JL:~■lS„^ 


iFO% 


"^miim-i^- 


aof 


ani^^'      ^6)Aavji8n# 


,  !.tld//^ 


"^/OTAlNll]WV  ■  --/f^o 


SOl^ 


^lOSANGE, 


•/Aa3/\hNli  aW^ 


a.  i-iiJn.ru  {  t  u^ 


^OJiWJjO^ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/florasynibolicaorOOingr 


TO 


Eliza    Cook 


THIS    VOLUME 


KS      AFFECTIONATELY      INSCRIBE  T) 


BY    HER    FRIEND 


THE   AUTHOR. 


Uo  ta-3 


Preface. 


(^gh^^/i^ 


npHE  LANGUAGE  OF  FLOWERS  has  probably  called 
forth  as  many  treatises  in  explanation  of  its  few  and 
simple  rules  as  has  any  other  mode  of  communicating  ideas ; 
but  I  flatter  myself  that  this  book  will  be  found  to  be  the 
most  complete  work  on  the  subject  ever  published — at  least, 
in  this  country.  I  have  thoroughly  sifted,  condensed,  and 
augmented  the  productions  of  my  many  predecessors,  and 
have  endeavoured  to  render  the  present  volume  in  every  re- 
spect worthy  the  attention  of  the  countless  votaries  which 
this  "  science  of  sweet  things  "  attracts  ;  and,  although  I  dare 
not  boast  that  I  have  exhausted  the  subject,  I  may  certainly 
affirm  that  followers  will  find  little  left  to  glean  in  the  paths 
that  I  have  traversed.  As  I  have  made  use  of  the  numerous 
anecdotes,  legends,  and  poetical  allusions  herein  contained,  so 


Yl 


Preface. 


have  I  acknowledged  the  sources  whence  they  came.  It  there- 
fore only  remains  for  me  to  take  leave  of  my  readers,  with  the 
hope  that  they  will  pardon  my  having  detained  them  so  long 
over  a  work  of  this  description  ;  but 

"Unheeded  flew  the  hours, 
For  softly  falls  the  foot  of  Time 
That  only  treads  on  flowers." 

J.   H.   INGRAM. 


Contents. 


c=r^^^2P5 


^^ 


Forsaken) 


Introduction. 
The  Rose  (Love) 
Hawthorn  (Hope) . 
Myrtle  (Love) 
Jasmine  (Amiability) 
Vervain  (You  enchant  me) 
Orange-blossom  (Chastity) 
Camphire  (Artifice) . 
Anemone  (Withered  hopes. 
Periwinkle  (Tender  recollections) . 
Weeping  Willow  (Mourning) 
Asphodel  (I  will  be  faithful  unto  death) 
Aloe  (Bitterness)  .... 
M  ezereon  (Coquetry)  ... 
Sensitive  Plant  (Bashful  love)  . 
Buttercups  (Riches.  Memories  of  Child 

hood)     

Crocus  (Cheerfulness) 
Eglantine  (Poetry) 
Heliotrope  (Devoted  attachment). 
Lilac  (Love's  first  emotions)    . 
Magnolia  (Magnificence) 
Judas  Flower  (Unbelief) 
Dandelion  (Oracle) 
Campanula  (I  will  be  ever  constant) 
Hyacinth  (Game.     Play)       . 
Marygold  (Grief)    .... 
Aster  (After-thought)  .        . 


Page 

I 

23 
49 
62 
68 
72 
75 
79 
82 
86 
88 

94 

96 

100 

102 

105 
107 
no 
112 
114 
116 
118 
121 
123 
126 
129 
132 


Tuberose  (Dangerous  pleasures)    . 

Page 

■    134 

~^  Broom  (Humility)    .... 

.  136 

Poppy  (Consolation.     Oblivion) 

.     140 

Pink  (Pure  love)       .... 

.    142 

Furze  (Anger) 

.    144 

Geranium  (Deceit)  .... 

.     146 

Fuchsia  (Taste)       .... 

.    148 

Almond-tree  (Indiscretion)    . 

•     150 

Flos  Adonis  (Painful  recollections) 

152 

Arbutus  (Thee  only  do  I  love) 

154 

Snowdrop  (Friend  in  need.     Hope.) 

.  156 

Cowslip  (Youthful  beauty) 

158 

Celandine  (Deceptive  hopes). 

161 

Dead  Leaves  (Melancholy)    . 

163 

Heart's-ease  (Think  of  me.    Thoughts, 

)  165 

Basil  (Hatred) 

170 

Forget-me-not       .... 

172 

Apple-blossom  (Preference)    . 

177 

Acanthus  (The  Arts) 

181 

Evening  Primrose  (Silent  love)     . 

183 

Thyme  (Activity)      .... 

186 

,  Cypress  (Mourning).        .        .        .        . 

188 

St.  John's  Wort  (Superstition) 

194 

Marvel  of  Peru  (Timidity)   . 

197 

Rosemary  (Remembrance) 

200 

Corn  (Abundance)   .... 

204 

Tulip  (A  declaration  of  love)  .        . 

208 

Sycamore  (Curiosity) 

211 

Vlll 


Contents. 


loveliness)    222 

.     224 
.     226 


Hollyhock  (Ambition)    . 

Lotus  (Eloquence)  . 

Juniper  (Protection) 

Camellia  Japonic  a  (Supreme 

Polyanthus  (Confidence) 

Holly  (Foresight)    . 

Foxglove  (Insincerity)    . 

Pimpernel  (Change) 

Clover  (I  promise)  . 

Acacia  (Friendship) 

Heath  (Solitude)     . 

Clematis  (Artifice)  . 

Amaranth  (Immortality) 

Mandrake  (Rarity) 

Speedwell  (Fidelity) 

Narcissus  (Self-love) 

Daffodil  (Unrequited  love) 
^'  'Iris  (A  message) 

Violet  (Modesty)     . 

Primrose  (Youth)    . 
i>^AiSY  (Innocence)    . 

Thistle  (Independence) . 

The  Lily  (Majesty). 

Moonwort  (Forgetfulness) 

The  Crown  Imperial  (Power) 

Mignonette  (Your  qualities  surpass  your 
charms)  ....... 


Page 
213 

215 
220 


231 

233 
235 
237 
239 
242 

244 
247 
249 

251 

252 

254 
256 
262 
266 
269 
272 
276 
278 

279 


Ash  (Grandeur)         .... 
Wallflower  (Fidelity  in  misfortune) 
The  Lily  of  the  Valley  (Return 

happiness)      .... 
Stock  (Lasting  beauty)  . 
'  Sweet  William  (Finesse.    Dexterity) 
Dahlia  (Pomp) 

White  Poplar  (Courage.     Time) 
Black  Poplar  (Affliction) 
Motherwort  (Concealed  love) 
Cornflower  (DeUcacy)  . 
Aspen  (Lamentation) 
Lemon  (Zest)    .... 
Passion  Flower  (Faith). 
Syringa  (Fraternal  love). 
Andromeda  (Will  you  help  me?) 
Parsley  (Festivity) . 
Mistletoe  (Give  me  a  kiss)    . 
Oak  (Hospitality)     . 
Convolvulus  (Night) 
Sunflower  (False  riches) 
Laurel  (Glory).     Bay  (Fame) 
The  Floral  Oracle 
Typical  Bouquets  . 
Emblematic  Garlands         , 
The  Voc-vbulary    . 


Page 
280 

284 


of 


286 
288 
290 
291 
292 

294 
296 
298 
300 
302 

304 
306 

307 
308 
310 

313 

318 

324 
330 
336 
342 
353 


Flora  Symbolica. 


-  HAKSPEARE  tells  as  that  "fairies  use  flowers  for 
their  charactery,"  and  so,  he  might  have  added,  do 
mortals,  for  the  language  of  flowers  is  almost  as  ancient 
and  universal  a  one  as  that  of  speech. 

The  Chinese,  whose  chronicles  antedate  the  historic 
records  of  all  other  nations,  have,  and  ever  seem  to  have 
had,  a  simple  but  complete  mode  of  communicating 
ideas  by  means  of  florigraphic  signs.  The  indestruct- 
ible monuments  of  the  mighty  Assyrian  and  Egyptian 
races  bear  upon  their  venerable  surfaces  a  code  of  floral 
telegraphy  that  Time  has  been  powerless  to  efi'ace,  but 
whose  hieroglyphical  meaning  is  veiled,  or,  at  the  best, 
but  dimly  guessed  at  in  our  day.  India,  whose  civilization  had 
attained  its  full  vigour  whilst  that  of  Greece  was  in  its  cradle, 
has  ever  been  poetically  ingenious  in  finding  in  her  magnificent 
Flora  significations  applicable  to  human  interest.  Biblical  lore 
abounds  in  comparisons  between  "the  golden  stars  that  in 
earth's  firmament  do  shine,"  and  the  feelings  and  passions  of 
poor  mortality.  Persian  poetry  is  replete  with  blossomy  similes ; 
whilst  the  mythology  of  the  Greeks  has  been  an  apparently  in- 
exhaustible storehouse  to  all  authors  in  search  of  floral  fancies. 
With  the  Hellenic  race  the  symbolic  language  of  flowers  reached 
its  culminating  point  of  grandeur ;  and  with  the  decline  of 
Grecian  glory  faded  away  the  brightest  epoch  in  the  history 

1 


Intr  on  uc  tion: 


of  florigraphy.  In  the  eyes  of  the  sterner-minded  Latins  this 
innocent  study  found  less  favour ;  and  although  they  adapted 
many  of  their  Hellenic  predecessors'  legends  and  customs,  in 
connection  with  this  science  of  sweet  things,  to  their  own  my- 
thology, yet  so  weakened  was  its  hold  upon  the  minds  of  the 
people,  that  when,  in  the  course  of  events,  the  decadence  of 
the  Roman  empire  arrived,  the  attractive  art  was  allowed  to 
fade  into  comparative  oblivion.  With  the  revival  of  learning 
in  the  middle  ages,  this  symbolic  mode  of  correspondence  once 
more  rebloomed,  and,  under  the  especial  protection  of  chivalry, 
played  a  far  from  unimportant  part  in  contemporary  history.  No 
gallant  knight  or  gentle  dame  could  then  aspire  to  good  breed- 
ing, unless  perfectly  conversant  with  florigraphy,  as  then  taught  ; 
and  the  names,  at  least,  of  many  of  Europe's  proudest  families 
owe  their  origin  to  some  circumstance  connected  with  their 
founders'  favourite  blossom.  In  those  days,  minstrels  and 
minnesingers  sang  praises  of  their  mistresses'  chosen  bloom  ; 
the  noblest  knight  and  gayest  squire  broke  many  a  lance,  and 
emptied  many  a  flagon,  in  honour  of  a  sprig  of  broom,  or  a 
bunch  of  violets,  that  some  fair  dame  had  perchance  adopted  as 
her  device.  Even  kings,  not  contented  with  their  regal  crowns, 
did  not  deem  it  derogatory  to  their  dignity  to  enter  the  lists, 
in  order  to  do  battle  for  the  floral  wreaths  that  beauty  proffered 
as  a  guerdon  for  the  victor. 

Thus  every  age  and  every  clime  promulgated  its  own  pecu- 
liar system  of  floral  signs ;  and  although  now-a-days,  as  regards 
the  larger  portion  of  Europe,  the  language  is  in  many  respects 
a  dead  one,  yet  still,  amongst  several  Oriental  races,  this  em- 
blematic style  of  communication  flourishes  with  much  of  its 
pristine  importance. 

"  In  Eastern  lands  they  talk  in  flowers, 

And  they  tell  in  a  garland  their  loves  and  cares ; 
Each  blossom  that  blooms  in  their  garden  bowers 
On  its  leaves  a  mystical  language  wears." 

It  has  been  said  that  the  language  of  flowers  is  as  old  as  the 
days  of  Adam,  and  that  the  antiquity  of  floral  emblems  dates 
from  the  first  throbbing  of  love  in  the  human  breast ;  and, 
indeed,  to  gain  a  glimpse  of  florigraphic  symbolism,  as  it  ap- 
peared in  its  earliest  and  freshest  vigour,  we  should  have  to 
journey  backwards  far  into  the  shadowy  obscurity  which  en- 


Introduction. 


velopes  the  antediluvian  history  of  mankind.  Phillips,  and 
other  painstaking  investigators,  have,  it  is  true,  not  contented 
themselves  with  general  allusions  to  the  unfathomable  antiquity 
of  the  typical  uses  which  were  made  of 

' '  Flowers,  the  sole  luxury  that  Nature  knew 
In  Eden's  pure  and  guiltless  garden," 

but  have  endeavoured  to  resuscitate  from  their  long  sleep  of 
thousands  of  years,  the  irretrievably  lost  floral  systems  with 
Avhich  the  mighty  Indian,  Egyptian,  Chaldean,  and  ancient 
Chinese  nations  "  wiled  away  the  hours." 

Of  all  peoples,  however,  of  whom  we  appear  to  possess  any 
reliable  records,  the  Greeks  may  be  accounted  the  earliest 
florigraphists,  and  they  do  seem  not  only  to  have  entertained 
the  most  passionate  love  for  flowers,  but  to  have  adapted  them 
as  typical  of  every  interesting  occurrence,  public  or  private. 
Loudon,  speaking  of  the  continual  symbolic  use  made  by  the 
Hellenic  race  of  flowers,  says,  "  not  only  were  they  then,  as 
now,  the  ornament  of  beauty,  and  of  the  altars  of  the  gods, 
but  the  youths  crowned  themselves  with  them  in  the  ietes, 
the  priests  in  religious  ceremonies,  and  the  guests  in  convivial 
meetings.    Garlands  of  flowers  were  suspended  from  the  gates 

•of  the  city  in  times  of  rejoicing 

the  philosophers  wore  crowns  of  flowers,  and  the  warriors  orna- 
mented their  foreheads  with  them  in  times  of  triumph."  We 
read  in  Aristophanes  that  a  market  for  flowers  was  held  in 
Athens,  where  vendors  rapidly  disposed  of  the  baskets  of 
blooms  which  they  proffered  to  the  admiring  bystanders.  With 
the  natives  of  ancient  Greece,  birth,  marriage,  burial,  and  every 
•ceremony  of  any  importance  whatever  was  marked  and  dis- 
tinctly comprehended  by  means  of  its  floral  accompaniment. 
Emblematic  of  relief  to  the  mother,  and  of  wishes  for  good 
fortune  to  the  child,  was  the  Palm  ;  young  wooers  delicately 
intimated  their  passion  by  decorating  the  doorways  of  their 
beloved  ones'  residences  with  garlands  of 

**  All  those  token  flowers  that  tell 
What  words  can  ne'er  express  so  well." 

The  illness  of  the  inmates  was  indicated  by  Buckthorn  and 
Laurel  hung  across  the  lintels :  whilst  the  conclusion  of  this 

1—2 


Intr  od  uc  tion. 


transitory  existence  was  denoted  by  Parsley  sprinkled  over  the 
remains  of  poor  mortality ;  whose  head  they  crowned  with 
various  symbolic  blossoms  ;  whose  funeral  pyre  they  decked 
with  odoriferous  blooms  and  spices  ;  whose  urn  they  hung  with 
wreaths  of  significant  meaning,  and  above  whose  well-tended 
grave  they  planted  flowers,  shrubs,  and  typical  trees.  At  the 
public  games  of  Greece  the  victor  was  invariably  rewarded 
with  some  floral  emblem  :  the  Olympian  winner,  as  a  token  of 
his  triumph,  received  a  garland  of  Wild  Olive  ;  he  of  the  \ 
Pythian  was  rewarded  with  a  Laurel  crown  ;  the  vanquisher  at 
the  Nemaean  Games  was  honoured  with  a  crown  of  Parsley,  and 
at  the  Elean  with  one  of  Pine-leaves.  Then  were  their  altars- 
buried  beneath  their  blossomy  offerings,  whilst  all  the  cere- 
monies that  were  performed  around  them  depended  chiefly  on 
their  floral  accompaniments  for  elucidation.  In  that  time — 
that  clime  "  where  burning  Sappho  lived  and  sung  "  the  praises, 
of  the  Rose — the  minstrel,  the  poet,  the  wrestler,  and  the 
patriot  were  all  alike  rewarded  with  wreathed  floralities.  Even 
Rome — ambitious  Rome — held  a  flowery  crown  as  fit  guerdon 
for  the  v/eightiest  services.  "  It  was  with  two  or  three  hundred 
crowns  of  oak,"  said  Montesquieu,  "  that  Rome  conquered  the 
world."  These  same  warlike  Latins  instituted  a  festival  in 
honour  of  Flora  as  early  as  736  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ 
— in  the  reign  of  Romulus  ;  but  the  public  games  or  Floralia 
were  not  regularly  established  until  516  years  after  the  foun- 
dation of  Rome,  when,  on  consulting  the  celebrated  books  of 
the  Sibyl,  it  was  ordained  that  the  feast  should  be  annually 
kept  on  the  28th  day  of  April,  that  is,  four  days  before  the 
Calends  of  May.  This  festival  ultimately  degenerated  into  a 
scene  of  unbounded  licentiousness,  in  which  all  its  original  pure 
and  symbolic  character  was  obliterated.  ^*  The  worship  of 
Flora,"  observes  Phillips,  "  among  the  heathen  nations,  may  be 
traced  up  to  very  early  days.  She  was  the  object  of  religious 
veneration  among  the  Phoenicians  and  Sabines  long  before  the 
foundation  of  Rome  ;  the  early  Greeks  worshipped  her  under 
the  name  of  Chloris."  And  that  those  Greeks  were  perfectly 
conversant  with  an  established  florigraphic  language  may  not 
only  be  gathered  from  the  numerous  allusions  made  to  it  by 
their  writers,  but  also  occasionally  by  less  doubtful  evidence,, 
as,  for  instance,  the  Dream  Book  of  Artemidorus,  wherein  can 


Intr  od  uc  tion. 


be  seen  palpable  proof  that  every  single  bloom  employed  in 
the  manufacture  of  wreaths  and  garlands  was  intended  to  im- 
part some  particular  meaning. 

''  Surely,"  says  Sir  Thomas  Browne,  "  the  heathen  knew 
better  how  to  join  and  read  these  mystical  letters,  than  we 
Christians,  who  cast  a  more  careless  eye  on  these  common 
hieroglyphics,  and  disdain  to  suck  divinity  from  the  flowers  of 
nature." 

That  these  heathen  did  know  how  to  interpret  the  meaning 
of  "  these  mystical  letters,"  evidence  has  already  been  adduced ; 
and,  although  in  many  dissertations  on  the  language  of  flowers 
it  has  been  stated  that  it  was  first  made  popular  in  Europe  by 
Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montague,  there  are  abundant  proofs  that 
it  was  well  understood  and  used  from  the  earliest  ages  by  many 
continental  nations.  After  the  decay  of  Latin  imperialism, 
and  until  the  dawn  of  the  Renaissance,  this  delightful  and  at- 
tractive study  was  doubtless  little  known  ;  but  in  the  age  of 
chivalry  and  of  the  preeminence  of  the  Romish  faith  it  revived, 
and,  for  a  time,  floral  significations  again  held  sway.  The 
Catholic  was  enabled  to  distinguish  between  fasting  and  fest- 
ive ceremonies  by  the  variety  of  the  bouquets  that  adorned  the 
altar  before  which  he  offered  up  his  orisons,  and  ofttimes  the 
knight  was  enabled  to  manifest  his  devotion  by  wearing  his 
lady's  colours  in  his  casque,  and  the  lady  frequently  showed  in 
what  light  she  regarded  his  attention  by  the  nature  of  the 
blooms  she  wore. 

The  love  of  flowers  is  felt  and  acknowledged  by  everybody, 
and  in  every  land  :  it  is  a  theme  for  every  one,  a  feeling  in 
which  all  can  coincide :  the  polished  European  or  the  untu- 
tored Australian  ;  the  philosopher  or  the  savage,  all  are  ready 
to  admire  and  to  praise.  So  universal  a  feeling — a  feeling 
doubtless  coeval  with  man's  existence  upon  this  globe — could 
not  fail  to  be  taken  advantage  of,  and  made  subservient  to,  the 
passions  of  mortality ;  and  to  us  it  appears  the  most  natural 
thing  in  the  world  that  flowers  should  have  been  made  em- 
blematic and  communicative  agents  of  our  ideas.  In  all 
countries  of  this  globe,  and  in  all  ages,  flowers  are  seen  em- 
ployed for  symbolic  and  decorative  purposes.  In  a  suggestive 
passage  in  his  "Account  of  the  Island  of  Ceylon,"  Sir  James 
E.  Tennant  speaks  of  the  people  even  there  oft^'ering  up  heca- 


I  NT  ROD  UC  TION. 


tombs  of  flowers,  their  temple  as  festooned  into  large  bouquetSj,, 
and  of  the  surrounding  air  being  ever  heavy  with  the  perfumes 
of  cham.pac  and  jessamine. 

Flowers  appear  always  to  have  played  a  prominent  part  in 
the  religious  ceremonies  of  all  peoples  and  in  all  ages  ;  but  it 
would  be  useless  to  multiply  examples  of  so  well  known  and 
generally  accepted  a  fact,  and,  indeed,  to  do  so  would  be  a  de- 
parture from  our  present  design  of  exhibiting  a  general  history 
of  the  language  only  of  flowers,  as  used  at  home  and  abroad. 

Florigraphy  is  a  science  that  requires  but  little  study.  Some 
flowers,  indeed,  almost  bear  written  upon  their  upturned  faces 
the  thoughts  of  which  they  are  living  representatives.  That  the 
"white  investments"  of  the  childlike  Daisy  should,  as  Shak- 
speare  says,  "  figure  innocence,"  is  self-evident ;  that  all  nations 
should  select  the  glowing  Rose  as  an  emblem  of  love  could  not 
be  wondered  at ;  whilst  the  little  blue  petals  of  the  Myosotis- 
fakutris  require  no  augur  to  explain  their  common  name  of 
Forget-me-not.  Or  again,  who  can  doubt  that  the  rich  perfumes, 
of  some  plants,  or  the  sparkling  lustres  of  others,  must  be- 
deemed  typical  of  joy  and  gladness ;  or  that  the  melancholy  hue 
and  sombre  looks  of  others  should  cause  them  to  be  selected 
to  symbolize  sadness  and  despair.'* 

Simple  as  is  the  language  of  those  bright  earth  stars,  *^the 
alphabet  of  the  angels,"  as  they  have  been  somewhat  inaptly 
styled,  a  great  deal  of  skill  may  be  expended  in  forming  them 
into  sentences,  and  much  ingenuity  may  be  exercised  in  ex- 
plaining fully  and  satisfactorily  the  sentiments  intended  to  be 
expressed  towards  the  recipient  of  the  floral  message.  The 
meanings  of  single  token-flowers  may  soon  be  learned,  but  the 
knov/ledge  of  how  to  form  them  into  a  complete  epistle  does 
demand  some  little  method.  Many  who  use  this  fascinating 
style  of  correspondence  frequently  agree  to  adopt  certain  secret 
and  original  significations  known  only  to  themselves ;  and,  it 
a  little  dexterity  is  shown,  they  not  only  give  variety  to,  but 
also  render  their  charming  telegraphy  perfectly  unintelligible 
to  the  uninitiated,  although  he  may  be  the  most  skilled  flori- 
graphist  breathing. 

Every  professor,  ay,  every  student  of  this  gentle  art,  may 
introduce  new  and  varied  combinations  into  its  simple  laws;, 
but  there  are  a  few  rudimentary  rules  that  should  not  be  ne*- 


I  NT  ROD  UC  TION. 


glected.  An  adept  in  the  grammar  of  this  language  gives  these 
directions  to  his  pupils :  '^  When  a  flower  is  presented  in  its 
natural  position,  the  sentiment  is  to  be  understood  affirma- 
tively ;  when  reversed,  negatively.  For  instance,  a  rose-bud, 
with  its  leaves  and  thorns,  indicate  fear  with  hope ;  but  if  re- 
versed, it  must  be  construed  as  saying,  "you  may  neither /"^'(^r 
nor  hope!'  Again,  divest  the  same  rose-bud  of  its  thorns,  and 
it  permits  the  most  sanguine  hope  ;  deprive  it  of  its  petals  and 
retain  the  thorns,  and  the  worst  fears  may  be  entertained.  The 
expression  of  every  flower  may  be  thus  varied  by  varying  its 
state  or  position.  The  Marigold  is  emblematic  oi  pain:  place 
it  on  the  head,  and  it  signifies  trouble  of  mind  ;  on  the  heart, 
the  pangs  of  love  ;  on  the  bosom,  the  disgusts  of  ennui.  The 
pronoun  /  is  expressed  by  inclining  the  symbol  to  the  right, 
and  the  pronoun  thon  by  inclining  it  to  the  left. 

Such  are  the  principal  elements  of  the  language  of  flowers, 
as  used  in  England,  France,  Germany,  and  the  United  States, 
and  simple  as  they  are,  they  are  frequently  altered,  and,  indeed, 
disregarded  entirely  by  many  versed  in  its  fanciful  lore.  The 
Bhimen-Sprache,  or  Language  of  Flowers  of  the  Germans, 
differs  in  many  minor  points  from  that  of  its  sister  nations,  but 
the  spirit  is  the  same. 

With  many  Oriental  races,  this  lovely  realization  of  "visible 
speech  "  is  practised  to  an  extent  little  dreamt  of  in  these 
colder  climes  ;  and,  it  is  said,  you  will  scarcely  find  a  native  of 
the  Levant  who  has  not  the  whole  system  by  heart.  From 
the  days  of  Lady  Montague  downwards,  few  of  our  travellers  in 
**  the  land  where  the  cypress  and  myrtle  are  emblems  of  deeds 
that  are  done  in  that  clime,"  but  have  favoured  the  readers  of 
their  adventures  with  some  incidents  illustrating  the  habitual 
usage  of  this  floral  telegraphy  among  all  classes  of  the  people 
whom  they  are  visiting. 

In  the  United  States,  the  language  of  flowers  is  said  to  have 
more  votaries  than  in  any  other  part  of  the  world  ;  and  said 
with  justice,  if  we  may  judge  by  the  number  and  splendour  of 
the  works  on  the  subject  which  have  appeared  there  during  the 
last  few  years,  and  the  intimate  acquaintance  which  American 
writers  display  with  floral  symbols. 

A  beautiful  poetess,  the  sweetness  of  whose  fancies  are  only 
equalled  by  their  sadness,  has,  in  many  deathless  rhymes,  pre- 


8  Intr  od  uc  tion. 


served  and  immortalized  the  various  symbolic  uses  to  which 
these  silent  interpreters  have  been  put  by  mortals,  and  in  the 
passionate  poetry  of  such  lines  as  these,  tells  more  than  prose 
can  hope  to  utter  : 

''Bring  flowers,  young  flowers,  for  the  festal  board. 
To  wreathe  the  cup  ere  the  wine  is  poured ; 
Bring  flowers ! — they  are  springing  in  wood  and  vale, 
Their  breath  floats  out  on  the  southern  gale. 
And  the  touch  of  the  sunbeam  hath  waked  the  rose. 
To  deck  the  hall  where  the  bright  wine  flows. 

*' Bring  flowers,  to  strew  in  the  conqueror's  path — 
He  hath  shaken  the  thrones  with  his  stormy  wrath  I 
He  comes  with  the  spoil  of  nations  back : 
The  vines  lie  crushed  in  his  chariot's  track, 
The  turf  looks  red  where  he  won  the  day — 
Bring  flowers  to  die  in  the  conqueror's  way  1 

**  Bring  flowers  to  the  captive's  lonely  cell, — 
They  have  tales  of  the  joyous  wood  to  tell ; 
Of  the  free  blue  streams,  and  the  glowing  sky, 
And  the  bright  world  shut  from  his  languid  eye ; 
They  will  bear  him  a  thought  of  the  sunny  hours, 
And  a  dream  of  his  youth — bring  him  flowers,  wild  flowers  I 

**  Bring  flowers,  fresh  flowers,  for  the  bride  to  wear ! 
They  were  bom  to  blush  in  her  shining  hair. 
She  is  leaving  the  home  of  her  childhood's  mirth, 
She  hath  bid  farewell  to  her  father's  hearth ; 
Her  place  is  now  by  another's  side — 
Bring  flowers  for  the  locks  of  the  fair  young  bride ! 

*  *  Bring  flowers,  pale  flowers,  on  the  bier  to  shed 
A  crown  for  the  brow  of  the  early  dead ; 
For  this,  through  its  leaves  hath  the  white  rose  burst; 
For  this,  in  the  woods  was  the  violet  nursed. 
Though  they  smile  in  vain  for  what  once  was  ours. 
They  are  love's  last  gift — bring  ye  flowers,  pale  flowers  I 

*'  Bring  flowers  to  the  shrine  where  we  kneel  in  prayer  : 
They  are  nature's  offering, — their  place  is  there'. 
They  speak  of  hope  to  the  fainting  heart ; 
With  a  voice  of  promise  they  come  and  part ; 
They  sleep  in  dust  through  the  Winter  hours. 
They  break  forth  in  glory — bring  flowers,  bright  flowers  ! " 

A  later,  and,  if  comparison  can  be  made  between  the  children 
of  song,  a  still  mightier  performer  upon  the  lyre  of  Poesy — 
need  Mrs.  Browning's  name  be  mentioned  t — has  also  deemed 
so  sweet  a  theme  as  the  emblematic  language  of  flowers  worthy 


Introd  uction. 


of  her  regards,  and  in  her  poem  of  "  A  Flower  in  a  Letter," 
tells  us  that 

"Love's  language  may  be  talked  with  these; 
To  work  out  choicest  sentences, 

No  blossoms  can  be  meeter ; 
And,  such  being  used  in  Eastern  bowers, 
Young  maids  may  wonder  if  the  flowers 

Or  meanings  be  the  sweeter. 

*'  And  such  being  strewn  before  a  bride, 
Her  little  foot  may  turn  aside, 

Their  longer  bloom  decreeing, 
Unless  some  voice's  whispered  sound 
Should  make  her  gaze  upon  the  ground 

Too  earnestly  for  seeing. 

**  And  such  being  scattered  on  a  grave, 
Whoever  mourneth  there,  may  have 

A  type  which  seemeth  worthy 
Of  that  fair  body  hid  below, 
Which  bloomed  on  earth  a  time  ago. 

Then  perished  as  the  earthy. 

**  And  such  being  wreathed  for  worldly  feast, 
Across  the  brimming  cup  some  guest 

Tlieir  rainbow  colours  viewing. 
May  feel  them,  with  a  silent  start, 
The  covenant  his  childish  heart 

With  Nature  made, — renewing.' 

In  these  two  beautiful  poems,  the  chief  emblematic  purposes 
to  which  "love's  interpreters"  are  applied,  have  been  alluded  to, 
and  it  will  thence  be  gathered  that  from  birth  to  burial  all  the 
principal  epochs  of  human  life,  public  or  private,  are  dependent 
upon  floral  associations  for  their  most  noteworthy  decorations. 
H.  G.  Adams,  ina  remarkably  interesting  work  on  the  ''Moral, 
Language,  and  Poetry  of  Flowers,"  has  collected  a  large  amount 
of  amusing  information  respecting  the  typical  usage  of  these 
lovely  wildings  of  nature  by  the  people  of  different  parts  and 
various  nations ;  and  in  that  portion  of  his  work  entitled 
"  Children  and  Flowers,"  tenderly  portrays  the  influence  exer- 
cised upon  youth  by  floral  association — an  association  which, 
though  deadened  perchance  in  after  life  by  too  close  intercourse 
with  the  human  world,  some  little  flowerets  may  at  any  time  re- 
call the  memory  of,  and  cause  a  longing  to  renew  "  the  covenant 
his  childish  heart  with  nature  made;"  but,  alas  !  too  late,  for  how 
few  but  will  be  forced  to  exclaim  with  Praed,  of  these  blooms: 


1 0  I  NT  ROD  UC  TION. 


"  They  are  not  half  so  bright 
As  childhood's  roses  were ! " 

Miss  Pardee,  in  the  "  City  of  the  Sultan,"  describes  an  interest- 
ing- ceremony,  which  she  beheld  some  Turkish  children  perform- 
ing, at  a  time  of  excessive  drought : — "  At  dusk,  the  village 
children,  walking  two  and  two,  and  each  carrying  a  bunch  of 
wild  flowers,  drew  near  the  cistern  in  their  turn,  and  sang,  to 
one  of  the  thrilling  melodies  of  the  country,  a  hymn  of  suppli- 
cation." Inspired  by  the  sight,  the  talented  authoress  composed 
a  kindred  hymn,  thus  ending : 

"  Allah !  Father !  hear  us  ! 
We  bring  Thee  flowers,  sweet  flowers, 

All  withered  in  their  prime  ; 
No  moisture  glistens  on  their  leaves, 

They  sickened  ere  their  time. 
And  we,  like  them,  shall  pass  away. 

Ere  wintry  days  are  near, 
Should'st  Thou  not  hearken  as  we  pray — 

Allah!  Father!— hear!" 

But  childhood  soon  fleets  away  with  its  transient  troubles  and 
heedless  mirth,  and  token-flowers  are  now  sought  for,  to  tell  of 
deeper  feelings,  and  more  passionate  hopes  and  fears,  than  yet 
have  stirred  the  heart.  Love !  love,  the  lord  of  all,  asserts  his 
right  to  rule :  he  is  a  most  despotic  monarch,  and 

" Like  Alexander  he  would  reign; 
And  he  would  reign  alone." 

Now  it  is  that  the  blushing  cheek  and  bashful  downcast  eye 
show  that  another  willing  slave  is  brought  into  the  bondage  of 

"Love — beautiful  and  boundless  love  ! — who  dwellest  here  below, 
Teaching  the  human  lip  to  smile — the  violet  to  blow. " 

and  now  it  is,  as  Eliza  Cook  tells  us,  that 

"  Some  liken  their  love  to  the  beautiful  rose. 
And  some  to  the  violet  sweet ; " 

for  each  one  seeks  to  typify  his  passion  by  the  most  beautiful 
emblem  he  can  discover,  and  for  such,  instinctively  turns  to 
the  lovely  offspring  of  Flora,  amid  whose  numerous  and  varied 
delicacies  he  speedily  finds  a  symbol  with  which  he  may  depict 
all  the  nameless  longings  of  his  heart.  "  Flowers  have  their 
language,"  says  an  able  writer:  "  theirs  is  an  oratory  that  speaks 


Introd  UC TION.  1 1 


in  perfumed  silence,  and  there  is  tenderness,  and  passion,  and 
even  the  Hghtheartedness  of  mirth,  in  the  variegated  beauty  of 

their  vocabulary No  spoken  word  can  approach  to  the 

delicacy  of  sentiment  to  be  inferred  from  a  flower  seasonably 
offered  :  the  softest  expressions  may  be  thus  conveyed  with- 
out offence,  and  even  profound  grief  alleviated,  at  a  moment 
when  the  most  tuneful  voice  would  grate  harshly  on  the  ear, 
and  when  the  stricken  soul  can  be  soothed  only  by  unbroken 
silence."     Of  this  latter  state,  how  truly  hath  the  poet  said : 

"  When  we  are  sad,  to  sadness  we  apply  ' 

Each  plant,  and  flower,  and  leaf,  that  meets  the  eye." 

That  flowers  do  serve  to  speak  "  thoughts  that  lie  too  deep 
for  tears  "  cannot  be  doubted  ;  for  not  only  have  poets  made 
use  of  them  to  portray  their  intense  passions,  but  even  the 
untutored  savage  woos  his  heart's  chosen  treasure  with  floral 
symbols,  or  defies  his  antagonist  with  emblematic  blooms. 
"  Flowers  do  speak  a  language,  clear  and  intelligible,"  says  the 
talented  authoress  of  "  Flora  Domestica : "  "  observe  them,  reader, 
love  them,  linger  over  them  ;  and  ask  your  own  heart  if  they 
do  not  speak  affection,  benevolence,  and  piety."  Do  not  flowers, 
lovely  flowers,  respond  to  the  questionings  of  our  hearts  in  a 
language  more  powerful,  and  far  more  expressive,  than  that  of 
the  tongue  ?    Even  more  potent  than  the  poet's  magic  lay, 

"They  pour  an  answering  strain,  that  never 
Could  be  awoke  by  minstrel  skill ; " 


and  their  perfumed  response 

"  The  rarest  melody  is  that  ever 

Stirr'd  human  hearts  to  bless  and  thrill." 

Poor  Letitia  Landon,  in  her  poem  of  "  The  Poetess,"  while  tell 
ing  the  "  History  of  the  Lyre,"  exclaims — 

"  The  flowers  were  full  of  song:  upon  the  rose 
I  read  the  crimson  annals  of  true  love; 
The  violet  flung  me  back  an  old  romance ; 
All  were  associated  with  some  link 
Whose  fine  electric  throb  was  in  the  mind." 

Tennyson,  in  his  ever-questioning  philosophy,  may  ask, 

*'0h,  to  what  uses  shall  be  put 

The  wild  weed  flower  that  simply  blows? 


f  2  Intj?  od  uc  tion 


And  is  there  any  moral  shut 
Within  the  bosom  of  the  rose?" 

But  he  at  once  answers  his  own  doubt  by  adding  that 

*'  Any  man  that  walks  the  mead, 
I  In  bird,  or  blade,  or  bloom,  may  find — 

According  as  his  humours  lead — 
A  meaning  suited  to  his  mind. " 

And  such  is  the  bounteous  and  varied  supply  of  symbolic 
floral  words  with  which  nature  decks  even  the  less  favoured  of 
her  shrines,  that  all  her  children  have  ever  ready  to  use  some 
requisite  parts  of  that  speech  which  is  clearly  universal.  This 
love  of  florigraphy  is  plainly  one  of  those  natural  touches  which 
make  all  the  world  akin — one  of  those  binding  links  whose 
origin  we  cannot  detect,  and  whose  effects  only  we  can  perceive. 
Here  we  may  exclaim  with  Eliza  Cook : 

* '  Oh,  could  we  but  trace  the  great  meaning  of  ALL, 
And  what  delicate  links  form  the  ponderous  chain. 
From  the  dew-drops  that  rise,  to  the  star-drops  that  fall, 
We  should  see  but  one  purpose,  and  nothing  in  vain!'^ 

From  the  unlettered  North  American  Indian  to  the  highly- 
polished  Parisian ;  from  the  days  of  dawning  civilization  among 
the  mighty  Asiatic  races,  whose  very  names  are  buried  in 
oblivion,  down  to  the  present  times,  the  symbolism  of  flowers 
is  everywhere  and  in  all  ages  discovered  permeating  all  strata 
of  society.  It  has  been,  and  still  is,  the  habit  of  many  peoples 
to  name  the  different  portions  of  the  years  after  the  most  pro- 
minent changes  of  the  vegetable  kingdom.  Thus,  amongst  the 
American  Indians,  one  period  or  season  is  known  as  the  **  bud- 
ding month,"  which  in  due  course  is  followed  by  the  "flowering 
month,"  which  in  its  turn  gives  way  to  the  "  fall  of  the  leaf,"  as 
these  tribes  poetically  term  their  autumn. 

It  has  been  truthfully  remarked  that  the  eloquence  of  flowers 
is  not  so  generally  understood  in  this  country  as  it  might  be ; 
and  although  the  most  cultivated  minds  of  the  most  polished 
nations  are  continually  reiterating  the  valuable  influence  of 
floral  beauty,  and  are  constantly  recurring  to  floral  symbolism 
in  order  to  expound  their  ideas,  yet  it  is  chiefly  amongst  those 
races  which  we  are  pleased  to  term  rude  and  barbarous  that  we 
find  the  most  delicate  appreciation  of  floral  ascendency.  What 
more  beautiful  exposition  of  such  a  creed  can  be  discovered 


Introduction. 


13 


than  that  given  by  Bougainville's  "South  Sea  Islander," who,  on 
being  taken  to  the  Botanic  Garden  in  Paris,  knelt  iDefore  an 
Otaheitan  plant,  and  kissed  it  as  affectionately  as  a  lover — as 
reverently  as  a  worshipper  ?  This  trait  in  the  human  mind  is 
typified  amongst  Oriental  and  other  semi-civilized  races  by  the 
sweetly  poetical  appellations  which  they  give  to  the  flowers 
and  shrubs  of  their  countries — names  endowed  with  more  true 
poetry  than  all  the  much-vaunted  fables  of  Rome,  or  even  of 
Greece. 

No  country  can  boast  a  more  varied  or  more  poetical  Flora 
than  we  now  possess  ;  but  the  literatures  and  languages  of  the 
Hindoo,  Turkish,  Persian,  Arabic,  and  Malayan  races  must  be 
scrutinized  in  order  to  discover  persons  conversant  with  the  real 
symbolism  of  flowers.  Some  idea  of  the  Hindoo,  and  also. 
Egyptian,  floral  languages  may  be  gleaned  from  our  pages  on 
the  lotus  and  other  sacred  flowers  of  the  East.  In  Lalla  Rookh 
we  catch  occasional  glimpses  of  their  weird  mysticism  ;  as  like- 
wise in  the  works  of  Sir  William  Jones,  which  abound  with 
interesting  allusions  to  these  beauties.  Many  such  emblematic 
blossoms  are  described  by  L.  E.  L.  in  her  poetical  portrait  of 
Manmadin,  the  Indian  Cupid.    She  pictures  him  as 


'*  Grasping  in  his  infant  hand 
Arrows  in  their  silken  band, 
Each  made  of  a  signal  flower — 
Emblem  of  its  varied  power : 
Some  fonned  of  the  silver  leaf 
Of  the  almond,  bright  and  brief, 
Just  a  frail  and  lovely  thing, 
For  but  one  hour's  flourishing ; 
Others,  on  whose  shaft  there  glows 
The  red  beauty  of  the  rose ; 
Some  in  Spring's  half-folded  bloom. 
Some  in  Summer's  full  perfume ; 
Some  with  withered  leaves  and  sere. 
Falling  with  the  falling  year ; 
Some  bright  with  the  rainbow  dyes 
Of  the  tulip's  vanities ; 
Some,  bound  with  the  lily's  bell, 
Breathes  of  love  that  dares  not  tell 
Its  sweet  feelings;  the  dark  leaves 
Of  the  esignum,  which  grieves. 
Droopingly  round  some  were  bound ; 
Others  were  with  tendrils  wound 


Of  the  green  and  laughing  vine, 
And  the  barb  was  dipped  in  wine. 
But  all  these  are  Summer  ills, 
Like  the  tree  whose  stem  distils 
Balm  beneath  its  pleasant  shade 
In  the  wounds  its  thorns  have  made. 
Though  the  flowers  may  fade  and  die, 
'T  is  but  a  light  penalty. 
All  these  bloom-clad  darts  are  meant 
But  for  a  short-lived  content ! 
Yet  one  arrow  has  a  power 
Lasting  till  life's  latest  hour — 
Weary  day  and  sleepless  night, 
Lightning  gleams  of  fierce  delight, 
Fragrant  and  yet  poisoned  sighs, 
Agonies  and  ecstacies ; 
Hopes  like  fires  amid  the  gloom, 
Lighting  only  to  consume  ! 
Happiness  one  hasty  draught, 
And  the  lip  has  venom  quaffed. 
Doubt,  despairing,  crime,  and  craft, 
Are  upon  that  honied  shaft !" 


Symbolic  flowers,  fruit,  and  even  vegetables,  are  still  much 


Introduction. 


employed  in  Hindostan  ;  nevertheless,  the  domination  of  the 
British  Government  has  undoubtedly  much  lessened  the  in- 
fluence they  exercise  upon  the  minds  of  the  natives.  In  many 
parts  of  the  Indian  peninsula  a  pleasant  floral  custom  is  re- 
tained. After  dinner,  servants  carry  round  to  the  guests  a  silver 
basin  decked  with  newly-gathered  flowers,  into  which  water  is 
poured  over  the  hands.  The  flowers  are  placed  in  a  perforated 
'  cover,  so  as  to  conceal  the  water  from  view.  In  some  parts  of 
India,  as  also  of  Persia,  it  is  customary  to  welcome  the  stranger 
on  his  entrance  to  a  town  with  wreaths  of  flowers,  which,  it  is 
said,  the  women  and  children  are  eager  to  offer.  One  of  these 
emblems  of  hospitality  seems  to  us  far  more  desirable  than  a 
chariot-load  of  the  blood-stained  triumphal  garlands  which  the 
•Latins  awarded  to  their  successful  soldiery.  Hindoos  are  fond 
of  covering  the  shrines  of  their  favourite  deities  with  floral 
oft'erings  ;  and,  like  their  brethren  of  Turkey  and  Persia,  the 
Hindostanee  followers  of  Mahomet  inherit  the  love  of  all 
Eastern  nations  for  blossomy  symbols. 

Forbes,  in  his  '*  Oriental  Memoirs,"  speaking  of  the  ceme- 
teries of  Guzerat,  says  :  "  To  those  consecrated  spots  the 
Mahommedan  matrons  repair,  at  stated  anniversaries,  with 
fairest  flowers  to  sweeten  the  sad  grave.  The  grand  tombs  are 
often  splendidly  illuminated,  but  the  meanest  heap  of  turf  has 
its  visitors,  to  chant  a  requiem,  light  a  little  lamp,  suspend  a 
garland,  or  strew  a  rose,  as  an  affectionate  tribute  to  departed 
love  or  separated  friendship."  Would  that  our  neglected  grave- 
yards— our  "cities  of  silence,"  as  the  Turks  poetically  call 
cemeteries  —  could  present  scenes  as  consolatory  !  Perhaps, 
however,  it  is  as  well  that  it  is  not  death,  but  the  world,  that  is 
too  much  with  us. 

It  has  been  remarked  that  the  floral  symbols  of  these  ancient 
nations  have  elucidated  some  of  the  most  difficult  questions 
concerning  their  history,  and  have  made  it  certain  that  most 
of  the  Indian  and  Egyptian  customs  originated  in  Chaldea — 
that  land  of  serene  and  tranquil  skies,  where  the  observation  of 
nature  first  grew  into  a  science,  and  was  cradled  and  cherished 
in  the  earliest  ages  of  the  world.  The  exclusiveness  of  the 
Chinese  and  Japanese  races  makes  it  difficult  to  obtain  any 
reliable  account  of  their  florigraphical  symbols ;  nevertheless, 
there  is  sufficient  proof  that  the  former  employ  a  floral  alphabet, 


Jntr  od  uc  tion.  t  5 


and  that  the  latter,  like  all  nations  of  ancient  origin,  possesses 
a  mode  of  emblematic  floral  communication.  In  the  ornamen- 
tation and  beautifying  of  gardens  the  Chinese  are  said  to  excel 
all  other  countries  ;  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  therefore,  that 
they  make  profuse  use  of  flowers  at  their  different  public  and 
private  ceremonies — more  especially  those  of  marriage  and 
burial:  they  plant  flowers  and  shrubs  about  the  graves  of  their 
families,  and  richly  decorate  their  temples  with  blossomy  offer- 
ings. Typical  blooms  are  generally  found  associated  with  their 
•deities  ;  as  for  instance,  is  the  case  with  Puzza,  who  is  repre- 
sented seated  on  a  lotus. 

The  Japanese,  Avho  are  evidently  a  sturdier  race  than  their 
over-governed  effeminate  neighbours,  evince  great  skill  in  the 
cultivation  of  flowers,  and  the  production  of  new  varieties  of 
them.  Their  trees  are  stated  to  be  remarkable  for  the  number 
of  them  that  bear  double  blossoms — a  proof  of  experienced 
culture.  The  Japanese  (as  were  the  ancient  Hebrews)  are  fond 
•of  naming  their  children  after  beautiful  flowers ;  indeed,  it  has 
been  stated  that  all  their  female  names  are  derived  from  blos- 
soms— a  graceful  compliment  akin  to  that  of  the  Malayan 
tongue,  which  employs  one  word  to  express  both  women  and 
flowers.  They  picture  the  Deity  as  recumbett  upon  a  water- 
lily  ;  and  in  many  ways,  both  sacred  and  secular,  express  not 
only  their  affection  for  flowers,  but  also  a  symbolic  method  of 
using  them. 

So  much  has  been  said  in  various  portions  of  this  work  re- 
specting the  floral  language  of  the  Turks  and  Persians,  that  it 
may  almost  sound  like  repetition  to  advert  to  them  once  more; 
but  as  such  stress  is  generally  placed  upon  Lady  Mary  Wort- 
ley  Montague's  description  and  presumed  introduction  of  these 
codes  into  Western  Europe,  it  is  impossible  to  pass  the  subject 
by  without  some  allusion.  The  so-called  Turkish  "  Language  of 
Flowers"  was  first  popularized  in  England  and  France  by  the 
above-named  lady,  and  by  La  Motraie,  Charles  the  Twelfth's 
companion  in  exile. 

From  the  few  examples  of  this  floral  system  cited  by  these 
illustrious  travellers,  it  does  not  appear  to  indicate  much  of  the 
brilliancy  and  delicacy  of  thought  which  characterized  the 
emblematic  methods  of  the  nations  of  antiquity,  and  would 
seem  merely  to  have  originated  (as  a  writer  in  the  "  Edinburgh 


1 6  Intr  od  uc  tion. 


Magazine  "  very  justly  observes)  "  in  the  idleness  of  the  harem^ 
from  the  desire  of  amusement  and  variety  which  the  ladies  shut 
up  there,  without  employment  and  without  culture,  must  feel. 
It  answers  the  purpose  of  enigmas,  the  solution  of  which  amuses 
the  vacant  hours  of  the  Turkish  ladies,  and  is  founded  on  a 
sort  of  crambo  or  bout  rime." 

"The  Turkish  dialect  being  rich  in  rhymes,"  observes  another 
florigraphical  authority,  "  presents  a  multitude  of  words  corre- 
sponding in  sound  with  the  names  of  the  flowers  ;  but  these 
rhymes  are  not  all  admitted  into  the  language  of  flowers,  and 
the  knowledge  of  this  language  consists  in  being  acquainted 
with  the  proper  rhyme.  A  flower  or  fruit  expresses  an  idea 
suggested  by  the  word  with  which  its  name  happens  to  rhyme. 
Thus,  for  instance,  the  word  armonde  (pear)  rhymes  among 
other  words  with  ormonde  (hope),  and  this  rhyme  is  filled  up 
as  follows:  'Armonde:  Wer  bana  bir  orjnonde:  Pear,  let  me 
not  despair.' " 

Herr  von  Hammer,  the  well-known  Oriental  traveller,  col- 
lected from  the  Greek  and  Armenian  women,  who  are  allowed 
to  traffic  with  the  inmates  of  the  harems,  about  a  hundred 
phrases  of  this  peculiar  vocabulary,  some  of  which  were  after- 
wards published  in  a  German  miscellany  entitled  "  Mines  of 
tiie  East." 

An  able  writer,  comparing  these  wretched  remnants  of  ancient 
floral  customs  with  their  pristine  glories,  speaks  thus  forcibly : 
*'  The  rich  imagery  and  startling  truth  of  the  Eastern  metaphors 
and  symbols  have  crumbled  into  ruins,  like  the  temples  dedi- 
cated to  their  gods.  Sickly  and  weak  as  is  the  modern  language 
of  flowers,  it  is  yet  as  prevalent  in  its  use  as  ever.  Undoubtedly, 
the  pure  system  of  floral  caligraphy  came  to  Europe  from  Egypt, 
in  which  country  the  love  of  flowers  was  carried  to  such  an  ex- 
tent that  Amasis,  it  is  recorded,  from  a  private  soldier  became 
general  of  the  armies  of  King  Partanis,  for  having  presented 
him  with  a  crown  of  flowers.  This  fortunate  donor  afterwards 
became  the  monarch  of  Egypt  himself,  and,  it  is  to  be  presumed, 
did  not  neglect  those  favourites  of  Flora  by  whose  means  he 
gained  his  crown. 

European  florigraphy  rose  and  fell  in  Greece.  There  it 
attained  the  summit  of  its  glory,  and  there  sank  into  an 
ignominious  neglect,  from  which  it  has  never  been  entirely- 


Intr  od  uc  tion.  1 7 


renovated.  It  is,  however,  pleasant  to  learn  that  many  rem- 
nants of  the  old  floral  customs  still  linger  about  the  Grecian 
isles,  and  to  read  of  a  marriage  ceremony  in  the  Isle  of  Delos, 
in  which  flowers  form  the  principal  decorations.  One  authority 
tells  us  that  at  daybreak  the  islanders  assembled,  and  crowned 
themselves  with  garlands ;  strewed  showers  of  blossoms  upon 
the  path  of  the  bridal  train  ;  wreathed  the  house  with  flowers ; 
singers  and  dancers  appeared  adorned  with  oak,  myrtle,  and 
hawthorn  garlands ;  the  bride  and  bridegroom  were  crowned 
with  poppies  ;  and  upon  their  approach  to  the  temple,  a  priest 
received  them  at  its  portals,  and  presented  to  each  of  them  a 
spray  of  ivy — a  symbol  of  the  tie  which  was  to  unite  them  for 
ever.  "~~~ 

The  Italians,  as  a  rule,  are  said  to  evince  great  dislike  of 
perfumes ;  and  this,  perhaps,  combined  with  lingering  memo- 
ries of  the  disgraceful  scenes  that  were  enacted  by  the  Romans 
in  their  decadence,  at  the  Floralian  festivals,  appears  to  have 
somewhat  damped  the  national  love  of  floral  symbolism  ; 
nevertheless,  the  innate  afl"ection  man  entertains  for  commun- 
ing by  means  of  these  golden  stars  is  not  quite  dormant  even 
there,  as  occasional  references  in  these  pages  will  demonstrate. 

Floral  emblemism  is  still  powerful  in  the  Iberian  peninsula, 
but  generally  assumes  a  superstitious  tinge,  and,  indeed,  is 
principally  indebted  to  Catholic  legends  for  what  little  vitality 
it  there  possesses. 

In  France  the  language  of  flowers  reigns  paramount,  and 
amongst  her  gallant  sons  and  vivacious  daughters,  reckons  its 
admirers  by  myriads.  Many  of  the  pretty  little  floral  vocabu- 
laries and  grammars  that  have  appeared  during  the  last  few 
years  in  England  and  America  have  been  simply  word-for- 
word  translations  from  the  works  of  our  Gallic  neighbours. 

The  manifold  editions  which  the  various  Blumen-Sprachcn 
of  Germany  have  attained,  prove  that  this  fascinating  study 
numbers  numerous  devotees  amongst  the  philosophizing  Teu- 
tonians ;  whilst  the  frequent  mention  of  floral  emblematic 
customs  by  Gothe,  and  other  distinguished  writers,  is  sufficient 
to  convince  us  of  the  hold  which  these  ancient  ideas  have  upon 
the  mind  of  even  the  most  educated  classes  of  society. 

Hans  Christian  Andersen,  the  friend  and  favourite  of  young 
and  old,  of  every  reading  child  and  of  every  grown  person  who 

2 


1 8  Intr  od  uc  tion. 


loves  to  recall  the  visions  and  fancies  of  youth — the  man  whose 
simple  heartfelt  stories  are  translated  into  every  civilized  tongue 
— neverlosesanopportunityof  depictingthe  loveable  intercourse 
which  the  people  of  the  Scandinavian  races  hold  with  the  floral 
world.  In  a  sweet  little  sketch  termed  ''  Das  dummes  Buck,''  he 
has  these  appropriate  remarks  :  "The  withered  oak-leaf  in  this 
book  is  to  remind  him  of  a  friend,  a  schoolfellow,  with  whom 
he  swore  a  life-long  friendship.  He  fastened  the  leaf  to  his 
student-cap,  in  the  greenwood,  when  the  bond  that  was  to  be 
so  lasting  was  made.  Where  does  he  live  now  ?  The  leaf  is 
preserved,  but  the  friendship  is  ended  !  Here  is  a  foreign  hot- 
house plant,  too  tender  for  the  gardens  of  the  North  ;  it  looks 
as  fresh  as  if  the  petals  still  exhaled  perfume  !  It  was  given  to 
him  by  a  maiden  in  her  father's  splendid  garden.  Here  is  a 
water-rose,  a  sweet  water-rose,  which  he  plucked  himself,  and 
which  he  has  moistened  with  his  own  salt  tears.  And  here  is  a 
nettle,  and  what  can  its  leaves  say  .-*  What  were  his  thoughts  as 
he  plucked  it,  and  why  has  he  preserved  it  here  "^  Here  is  a 
May-lily  out  of  the  forest  solitude  ;  and  here  a  perriwinkle- 
blossom  from  the  parlour  vase;  and  here  a  blade  of  ladies'-grass 
— ^what  do  they  all  typify  V  Well  might  Gothe  exclaim,  when 
thinking  of  such  suggestive  emblems  as  these,  "  Some  flowers 
are  only  lovely  to  the  eye,  but  others  are  lovely  to  the  heart." 

Of  England's  interest  for  floral  symbolism  what  may  be  said 
here.''  Accused  of  neglecting  the  charming  study,  and  of  deem- 
ing it  too  trivial  for  the  notice  of  this  prosaic  age,  yet  do  her 
bards — still  do  her  favourite  minstrels,  tune  their  lyres  to  hymn 
its  evergreen  delights.  From  the  days  of  Dan  Chaucer,  the  har- 
binger of  English  poesy,  to  the  Tennysonian  age,  have  our 
poets  continually  paid  homage  to  the  emblematic  language  of 
flowers,  as  may  be  proved  by  reference  to  the  countless  extracts 
in  this  work. 

A  distinguished  writer  has  the  following  observations  on  the 
subject  of  Shakspeare's  acquaintance  with  florigraphy :  "Shak- 
speare  has  evinced  in  several  of  his  plays  a  knowledge  and  a 
love  of  flowers ;  but  in  no  instance  has  he  shown  his  taste  and 
judgment  in  the  selection  of  them  with  greater  effect  than  in 
forming  the  coronal  wreath  of  the  lovely  maniac,  Ophelia.  The 
queen  describes  the  garland  as  composed  of  crow-flowers,  nettles, 
daisies,  and  long-purples ;  and  there  can  be  no  question  that 


Introd  uction.  1 9 


Shakspeare  intended  them  all  to  have  an  emblematic  meaning". 
The  crow-flower  is  a  species  of  lychnis,  or  meadow  campion  :  it 
is  sometimes  found  double  in  our  hedgerows  ;  and  in  this  form 
we  are  told  by  Parkinson  it  was  called  The  Fayre  Mayde  of 
France.  It  is  to  this  name  and  to  this  variety  that  Shakspeare 
alludes  in  Hamlet.  (The  long-purples  are  commonly  called 
"  dead  men's  fingers.") 

"  '  Our  cold  maids  do  dead  men's  fingers  call  them.' 

The  daisy  imports  the  purity  or  spring-tide  of  life ;  and  the 
intermixture  of  nettles  needs  no  comment." 

Admitting  the  correctness  of  this  interpretation,  the  whole  is 
an  excellent  specimen  of  emblematic  or  picture  writing.  They 
are  all  wild  flowers,  denoting  the  bewildered  state  of  the  beau- 
tiful Ophelia  s  own  faculties  ;  and  the  order  runs  thus,  with  the 
meaning  of  each  term  beneath  : 

CROW-FLOWERS.  NETTLES.  DAISIES.  LONG-PURPLES. 

Fayre  Mayde.    Stung  to  the  quick.     Her  youthful  bloom.     Under  the  cold  hatid  oj"  death. 
"A  fair  maid  stung  to  the  quick ;  her  youthful  bloom  under  the  cold  hand  of  death." 

It  would  be  difficult  to  select  a  more  appropriate  garland  for 
this  victim  of  love's  cruelty.  Indeed,  Shakspeare,  as  the  perusai 
of  the  following  pages  testifies,  continually  availed  himself  of 
the  symbolism  of  flowers,  in  order  to  depict  the  passions  of 
humanity. 

Chaucer  and  Herrick  are  probably  next  in  rank  amongst  our 
earlier  bards  in  the  truly  poetic  fancy  of  rendering  flowers 
vehicles  of  human  sentiments.  Amongst  our  modern  minstrels, 
to  speak  of  position  would  be  invidious ;  but  nothing  could 
come  more  appropriate  to  our  purpose  than  this  little  lay  by 
Patterson : 

**  Flowers  are  the  brightest  things  which  earth 
On  her  broad  bosom  loves  to  cherish ; 
Gay  they  appear  as  children's  mirth, 
Like  fading  dreams  of  hope  they  perish. 

**  In  every  clime,  in  every  age, 

Mankind  has  felt  their  pleasing  sway; 
And  lays  to  them  have  deck'd  the  page 
Of  moralist  and  minstrel  gay. 

"By  them  the  lover  tells  his  tale, — 

They  can  his  hopes,  his  fears  express ; 
The  maid,  when  words  or  looks  would  fail. 
Can  thus  a  kind  return  express. 

2—2 


20  Introduction. 


"  They  wreathe  the  harp  at  banquets  tried, 
With  them  we  crown  the  crested  brave; 
They  deck  the  maid — adorn  the  bride — 
Or  form  the  chaplets  for  her  grave." 

The  richly  varied  and  magnificent  Flora  of  the  American 
continent  has  offered  her  sons  and  daughters  a  floral  vocabu- 
lary capable  of  almost  unlimited  application,  and  readily  have 
the  denizens  of  the  New  World  seized  upon  and  resuscitated 
these  decaying  systems  of  the  Eastern  Hemisphere.  The 
numerous  brilliant  and  original  tokens  which  they  have  already 
sent  forth  in  explanation  of  the  American  language  of  flowers 
prove  that  they  are  not  dependent  upon  European  codes  for 
emblematic  communion  ;  as  Holmes — their  own  witty-wise 
Holmes — says : 

*'  They  ask  no  garlands  sought  beyond  the  tide, 
But  take  the  leaflets  gathered  at  their  side." 

Many  blossoms  gathered  from  Columbia's  well-stored  garden 
will  be  discerned  in  this  bouquet ;  but  this  bright  bud  of  Charles 
Fenno  Hoffmann's  will  not  fail  to  increase  the  brilliancy  of  the 
tout  ensemble: 

THE   LANGUAGE    OF    FLOWERS 

•'Teach  thee  their  language?     Sweet,  I  know  no  tongue, 

No  mystic  art  those  gentle  things  declare  ; 
I  ne'er  could  trace  the  schoolman's  trick  among 

Created  things  so  delicate  and  rare. 
Their  language  ?    Prithee  !  why,  they  are  themselves 

But  bright  thoughts  syllabled  to  shape  and  hue, — 
The  tongue  that  erst  was  spoken  by  the  elves, 

When  tenderness  as  yet  within  the  world  was  new. 

"And,  oh!  do  not  their  soft  and  starry  eyes — 

Now  bent  to  earth,  to  heaven  now  meekly  pleading, 
Their  incense  fainting  as  it  seeks  the  skies, 

Yet  still  from  earth  with  freshening  hope  receding — 
Say,  do  not  these  to  every  heart  declare, 

With  all  the  silent  eloquence  of  truth. 
The  language  that  they  speak  is  Nature's  prayer, 

To  give  her  back  those  spotless  days  of  youth?" 

That  flowers  do  mingle  in  the  general  prayer  of  nature,  no 
thinking  mind  can  deny.  The  links  that  bind  them — that  have 
ever  bound  them — to  humanity,  are  too  manifold  to  be  broken 
or  concealed.  From  the  earliest  historic  ages,  flowers  have 
mingled  with  the  deeds,  and,  alas !  misdeeds,  of  man ;  and  it 


Introd  UCTION.  2 1 


was  probably,  as  the  authoress  of  "  Flora  Domestica  "  suggests, 
"the  general  power  of  sympathy  which  caused  them  to  be 
connected  with  some  of  the  earliest  events  that  history  records. 
The  mythologies  of  all  nations  are  full  of  them ;  and  in  all 
times  they  have  been  associated  with  the  soldiery,  the  govern- 
ments, and  the  arts.  Thus  the  patriot  was  crowned  with  Oak; 
the  hero  and  the  poet  with  Bay;  and  beauty  with  the  Myrtle. 
Peace  had  her  Olive ;  Bacchus  his  Ivy ;  and  whole  groves  of 
oak-trees  were  thought  to  send  out  oracular  voices  in  the.  winds. 
One  of  the  most  pleasing  parts  of  state  splendour  has  been 
associated  with  flowers.  .  .  It  was  this  that  brought  the  gentle 
family  of  Roses  into  such  unnatural  broils  in  the  civil  wars ; 
and  still  the  united  countries  of  Great  Britain  have  each  a 
floral  emblem:  Scotland  has  its  Thistle,  Ireland  its  Shamrock, 
and  England  the  Rose.  France,  under  the  Bourbons,  had  the 
golden  Lily."  Our  different  festivals  have  each  their  own  pecu- 
liar plant  to  be  used  in  their  celebration.  At  Easter,  the  Willow 
as  a  substitute  for  the  Palm ;  at  Christmas,  the  Holly  and 
Mistletoe ;  and,  on  May-day,  the  Hawthorn  or  May-bush. 

Notwithstanding  all  that  has  happened,  all  that  has  been 
said  upon  the  subject,  some  people  still  refuse  credence  to  the 
influence  of  flowers — even  deeming  frivolous  or  meaningless 
these  florigraphical  tokens  which  have  been  a  source  of  joyous 
feelings  and  sublime  hopes  to  thousands. 

In  his  beautiful  philosophical  work  on  the  "Nature  and 
Phenomena  of  Life,"  Leo  Grindon  thus  emphatically  expresses 
his  opinion  as  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  emotions  engendered 
in  the  human  mind  by  this  unspoken  language  :  "  The  presig- 
nificance  of  mental  and  moral  qualities  by  plants  is  fully  as 
extensive  as  that  of  organic  structure  and  configuration.  This 
arises,  of  course,  from  the  correspondence  which  subsists  between 
the  material  and  the  spiritual  world.  The  former,  as  the  ex- 
ternal image  of  the  latter,  must  needs  prefigure  it.  The  box- 
tree  represents  stoicism  ;  the  camomile  plant  patiaice  in  adver- 
sity;  the  ash  and  mulberry  prefigure  prudence;  the  nettle  is  a 
presage  of  spitcfidness ;  trees  like  the  hermandiay  that  make  a 
great  display  of  foliage,  but  produce  no  fruit  of  any  value,  give 
note  of  empty  and  pretentious  boasters.  It  was  not  from  their 
mere  commercial  value  that  the  dowry  of  a  Greek  bride  was 
paid  in  olive  plants,  any  more  that  it  is  from  mere  fancy  that 


2  2  InTROD  UCTION. 


the  English  one  wears  a  wreath  of  orange  blossoms :  it  prefigures 
the  virtues  and  the  aptitudes  which  adorn  and  should  appear 
in  the  wife.  The  leaves  are  green  all  the  year  round  ;  flowers 
white  and  fragrant,  fruits  full  grown,  and  others  in  youngest 
infancy  are  always  to  be  seen  on  this  beautiful  tree.  We  may 
gather  from  Scripture  why  the  ancients  placed  palm-branches 
in  the  hands  of  their  statues  of  Temperance  and  Cheerfulness, 
and  why,  in  Egypt,  a  vine  was  the  hieroglyph  of  Intelligence." 
Such  are  the  tenets  of  florigraphists.  Let  us  hope  that  such 
harmless  if  not  beneficent  doctrines  are  destined  for  universal 
acceptance,  and  that  those  bright  times,  foretold  by  Slielley, 
are  not  far  distant,  when 


"Not  gold,  not  blood,  the  altar  dowers, 
Dut  votive  blooms  and  symbol  flowers." 


The   Rose. 

(LOVE.) 

"Love  is  like  a  rose." — Philip  Bailey. 

BY  universal  suffrage  the  Rose  has  been  voted  to  be  the  love- 
liest amongst  the  children  of  Flora.  There  is  scarcely  a 
name  of  any  note  in  the  world's  literature  that  has  not  paid  a 
willing  tribute  to  the  beauties  of  the  ''bloom  of  love"  and  a 
collection  comprising  one  tithe  of  all  the  choice  things  said  of 
it  would  amply  fill  a  very  respectable-sized  library. 

It  is,  in  all  probability,  a  native  of  the  East,  whence  it  tra- 
velled westward.  It  has  now  become  an  inhabitant  of  every 
civilized  country,  and  opes  its  glowing  petals  to  the  sun  in 
every  quarter  of  the  globe.  Its  scent  is  the  most  exquisite, 
its  colours  the  most  fascinating,  and  its  verdure  the  most  re- 
freshing of  all  the  beauties  of  nature. 

Our  rose-tree,  however,  is  on  a  very  small  scale  compared 
with  the  rose  of  the  East.  This  latter  grows  to  the  height  of 
fourteen  feet,  spreading  out  widely  its  branches,  heavily  laden 
with  thick  masses  of  the  most  lovely  flowers.  The  rose  ot 
Sharon  and  the  rose  of  Damascus  are  the  favourites  of  Oriental 
nations ;  and,  indeed,  we  have  proofs  that  this  latter  species 
has  been  held  in  high  esteem  for  nearly  two  thousand  years. 
Few  things  have  been  more  celebrated  in  history  than  the  Rose 
Gardens  at  Psstum  in  Lucania,  which  flourished  about  the 
commencement  of  the  Christian  era. 

The  rose  is  mentioned  by  the  earliest  writers  of  antiquity. 
Herodotus  speaks  of  the  double  rose  ;  in  the  Song  of  Solomon 
is  the  expression,  "  I  am  the  rose  of  Sharon  ;"  and  allusion  is 
also  made  therein  to  the  plantation  of  roses  at  Jericho.  Isaiah 
makes  use  of  the  beautiful  thought — "The  desert  shall  rejoice 
and  blossom  as  the  rose ;"  and  Stesichorus,  one  of  the  earliest 


24  The  Rose. 

Greek  poets  of  whom  any  writings  are  extant,  has  left  a  refe- 
rence to  the  rose  in  the  following  fanciful  lines  : 

"Many  a  yellow  quince  was  there 
Piled  upon  the  regal  chair ; 
Many  a  verdant  myrtle  bough — 

Many  a  rose  crown  fealy  wreathed 
With  twisted  violets  that  grow 

Where  the  breath  of  Spring  has  breathed." 

Sappho,  a  contemporary  of  this  latter  author,  wrote  an  exqui- 
site ode  to  the  rose ;  and  Thomas  Moore,  the  modern  Anacreon, 
has  thus  transferred  to  the  English  the  burning  language  of  the 
Lesbian  maid : 

*'If  Jove  would  give  the  leafy  bowers 
A  queen  for  all  their  world  of  flowers, 
The  rose  would   be  the  choice  of  Jove, 
And   blush  the  queen  of  every  grove. 
Sweetest  child  of  weeping  morning, 
Gem,  the  breast  of  earth  adorning, 
Eye  of  flow'rets,  glow  of  lawns. 
Bud  of  beauty,  nursed   by  dawns  : 
Soft  the  soul  of  love  it  breathes, 
Cypria's  brow  with  magic  wreathes ; 
And  to  the  Zephyr's  warm  caresses, 
Diffuses  all  its  verdant  tresses, 
Till  glowing  with  the  wanton's  play, 
It  blushes  a  diviner  ray." 

Anacreon,  Love's  own  minstrel,  in  language  scarcely  surpassed 
by  the  glowing  words  of  his  unfortunate  fellow-votary,  Sappho, 
has  celebrated  the  powers  of  the  rose ;  and,  in  lines  eloquent 
as  his  master's  own,  the  admiring  Antipater,  in  his  ode  to  the 
glorious  Tean,  prays  that — 

"Around  thy  tomb,  O  bard  divine! 

Where  soft  thy  hallow'd  brow  reposes. 
Long  may  the  deathless  ivy  twine. 

And  Summer  pour  her  wealth  of  roses." 

Theophrastus  tells  us  that  in  his  days  the  hundred-leaved  rose 
(which  is  emblematic  oi  grace)  grew  on  Mount  Pangseus.  It 
would  seem  that  the  Isle  of  Rhodes  (i.e.,  roses)  was  so  desig- 
nated from  the  culture  of  those  flowers  having  been  anciently 
carried  on  there.  Pliny  mentions  several  sorts  of  roses  culti- 
vated by  the  Romans,  and  those  of  Campania,  Miletus,  and 
Cyrene  were  the  most  celebrated.  Loudon  seems  to  think  that 
the  white  rose  (typical  of  silence) ,  and  the  yellow  rose  (typify- 


The  Rose.  25 

ing  infidelity),  were  unknown  to  the  ancients  ;  and,  if  so,  many- 
pretty  legends  connected  with  those  blossoms  lose  their  point. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  those  ancients  themselves  sometimes  fabled 
that  the  red  rose  was  originally  white,  but  received  a  rosy  hue 
from  blood  drawn  by  a  thorn  from  the  foot  of  Venus,  as  she 
was  hastening  to  the  aid  of  her  adored  Adonis.  Carey  fanci- 
fully ascribes  its  ruddy  tint  to  the  kisses  of  Eve  ;  and  some  to 
those  of  the  Goddess  of  Love,  from  whose  bath,  Greek  writers 
say,  it  originally  sprang;  whilst  the  full-bosomed  cabbage  rose, 
they  say,  sprang  from  the  tears  of  Lycurgus,  the  enemy  of 
Bacchus.  One  author,  in  speaking  of  this  flower,  asserts  that 
in  its  primitive  state  it  has  no  thorns,  which,  he  suggestively 
adds,  are  produced  by  cultivation. 

Those  glorious  ancients  who  regarded  the  rose  as  the  emblem  \ 
of  silence,  as  well  as  of  love  and  joy,  frequently  represented 
Cupid  offering  one  to  Harpocrates,  the  God  of  Silence ;  and, 
as  a  further  illustration  of  the  gentle  hint,  on  festive  occasions 
suspended  a  rose  over  the  table,  intimating  to  the  assembled 
guests  that  the  conversation  was  to  be  literally,  as  well  as 
metaphorically,  *' under  the  rose."  This  latter  account  is 
generally  given  as  the  correct  derivation  of  the  saying,  '^  stcb 
rosa"  applied  to  communications  not  to  be  repeated  ;  but 
some  writers  say  that  the  rose  was  once  dedicated  to  Harpo- 
crates, and  thus  became  the  emblem  of  taciturnity,  for  which 
reason,  it  is  averred,  it  is  frequently  placed  over  the  confes- 
sionals in  Roman  Catholic  churches,  indicating  the  secrecy 
which  should  attend  whatever  may  be  there  disclosed  to  the 
ears  of  the  priest. 

Roses,  which,  as  Herodotus  says,  from  the  days  when  Midas, 
the  Phrygian  king,  had  gardens  of  them,  until  our  own  times, 
have  ever  reigned  as  queen  of  flowers,  with  a  beauty  only 
equalled  by  that  of  "  the  rose-bud  garden  of  girls,"  and  ever 
has  that  flower,  which,  Juliet  tells  us,  would  smell  as  sweet  if 
called  by  any  other  name  than  that  of  "  rose,"  been  the  darling 
bloom  of  poets  and  lovers.  In  the  romance  of  **  Perceforet,"  a 
hat  adorned  with  roses  is  a  favourite  Q;a(!;e  d' amour.  In  Don 
Quixote's  best-beloved  fiction,  "  Amadis  de  Gaul,"  the  captive 
Oriana  throws  to  her  lover,  as  a  pledge  of  her  unalterable 
affection,  a  rose  bathed  in  her  own  tears.  In  the  well-known 
German  collection  of  romances  ("The  Book  of  Pleroes,")  a  pro- 


2() '  The  Rose. 

rninent  position  is  assigned  to  the  Rose  Garden  of  Worms : 
the  fragile  rampart  that  surrounded  that  famous  garden  was 
nothing  more  than  a  silken  thread.  Being  attacked  by  giants, 
it  was  triumphantly  defended  by  a  band  of  knights,  to  each  of 
whom  Princess  Chrymhilde  assigned  a  chaplet  of  roses  and  a 
kiss  as  a  reward.  It  is  said  that  one  of  the  knights,  named 
Hildebrandt,  whilst  accepting  the  chaplet,  declined  the  salute  ; 
but  that  another,  who  was  a  monk  named  Ilsan,  was  so  pleased 
with  the  proffered  recompense  that  he  begged  for  the  bestowal 
of  similar  favours  upon  each  of  the  fifty-two  monks  inhabiting 
the  convent  to  which  he  belonged.  His  request  was  granted, 
but  not  until  he  had  slain  fifty-two  of  the  gigantic  offenders. 

Roses  were  more  highly  prized  by  the  Romans  than  any 
other  flower  :  they  considered  them  emblematic  oi  joy,  and,  in 
conformity  with  that  idea,  represented  Comus,  the  God  of 
Feasting,  as  a  handsome  young  man,  crowned  with  a  garland 
of  roses,  whose  leaves  glistened  with  dew-drops.  Milton,  ever 
apt  at  classic  lore,  causes  this  sylvan  deity  to  bid  his  attendant 
sprites 

*'  Braid  your  locks  with  rosy  twine, 
Dropping  odours,  dropping  wine." 

In  the  reign  of  Domitian,  the  Egyptians  thought  of  offering 
to  that  emperor's  court,  as  a  magnificent  present,  roses  in  the 
middle  of  winter ;  but  the  Romans,  who  had  already  attained 
the  means  of  forcing  flowers,  smiled  at  the  proffered  gift,  so 
abundant  were  roses  in  Rome  at  this  season.  "  In  every 
street,"  says  Martial,  ''the  odour  of  spring  is  breathed,  and 
garlands  of  flowers,  freshly  gathered,  are  displayed."  "  Send 
us  corn,  Egyptian  !  and  we  will  send  you  roses,"  ironically  ex- 
claims this  poet. 

The  extravagant  use  of  flowers  by  the  Romans  was  con- 
tinually subjecting  them  to  the  reproofs  of  their  philosophers. 
They  were  accustomed  to  strew  their  streets  with  roses  at  their 
chief  festivals.  Heliogabalus  had  his  bed,  apartments,  and 
porticoes  strewed  with  the  rarest  flowers  ;  and,  before  him, 
Cicero  reproached  Verres  with  having  travelled  through  Sicily, 
seated  on  roses,  with  a  crown  of  flowers  on  his  head,  and  a 
garland  round  his  neck.  The  Roman  physicians,  whose  duties 
were  multitudinous,  determined  what  kinds  of  plants  were  pro- 
per to  be  admitted  into  the  floral  crowns  designed  to  be  placed 


The  Rose.  27 


upon  the  heads  of  those  whom  it  was  intended  should  be 
honoured  at  great  festivals.  The  plants  selected  were  the  pars- 
ley, the  ivy,  the  myrtle,  and  the  rose — all  of  which  Vv^ere  con- 
sidered to  act  as  antidotes  to  the  effects  of  wine. 

Rose-trees  were  employed  both  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans 
to  decorate  graves  ;  and  instances  are  given  of  rose  gardens 
being  bequeathed  by  their  proprietors  for  the  purpose  of  fur- 
nishing flowers  to  cover  their  places  of  sepulture.  They  fre- 
quently invoked  the  most  bitter  imprecations  against  those 
who  dared  to  violate  these  sacred  plantations.  Sometimes  the 
dying  man  ordered  that  his  heirs  should  meet  every  year,  on 
the  anniversary  of  his  decease,  to  dine  together  near  his  tomb, 
and  to  crown  it  with  roses  from  his  sepulchral  plantation. 

The  early  Christians  strongly  disapproved  of  the  employ- 
ment of  flowers,  either  at  feasts  or  at  burials,  because  they 
were  so  used  by  the  Pagans.  TertuUian  wrote  a  book  against 
garlands  ;  and  Clement  of  Alexandria  did  not  think  it  right 
that  kings  should  be  crowned  with  roses,  as  Christ  was  crowned 
with  thorns.  St.  Anselm  launched  anathemas  against  those 
who  made  pilgrimages  to  the  wells  and  fountains  of  reputed 
saints  in  order  to  strew  them  with  flowers.  Notwithstanding 
the  strenous  opposition  of  their  clergy,  however,  the  Roman 
converts  persisted  in  their  floral  rites  ;  and,  alluding  to  such 
practices,  Bishop  Heber  says,  "  If  this  be  heathenish,  Heaven 
help  the  wicked !" 

The  custom  is  prevalent  in  many  countries  of  placing  a 
chaplet  of  flowers  above  the  dead.  In  some  parts  of  the  south 
of  England,  a  wreath  of  white  roses  is  borne  before  the  corpse 
of  a  maiden  by  a  young  girl,  and  after  the  burial  is  hung  up 
over  her  accustomed  seat  at  church.  "They  are  emblemati- 
cal," says  Washington  Irving,  in  his  Sketch  Book,  "  of  purity, 
and  the  crown  of  glory  which  she  has  received  in  heaven." 
L.  E.  Landon's  exquisite  lines,  entitled  "  The  Legacy  of  the 
Roses,"  are  stated  to  have  been  suggested  by  a  bequest  that 
Edward  Rose,  a  citizen  of  London,  who  died  in  1653,  made. 
He  left  twenty  pounds  (a  considerable  sum  in  those  days)  for 
the  purchase  of  an  acre  of  land,  for  the  poor  of  the  village  of 
Barnes  in  Surrey,  where  his  remains  are  placed,  upon  condition 
that  a  number  of  rose-trees  should  be  planted  around  his  grave, 
and  kept  well  tended. 


28  The  Rose. 


*'  Plant  the  green  sod  with  the  crimson  rose, 
Let  my  friends  rejoice  o'er  my  calm  repose, 
Let  my  memory  be  like  the  odours  shed, 
My  hope  like  the  promise  of  early  red ; 
Let  strangers  share  in  their  breath  and  bloom — 
Plant  ye  the  bright  roses  over  my  tomb." 

So  sang  this  pathetic  writer,  whose  melancholy  fate  seems  to 
throw  a  shadow  of  sadness  over  everything  that  she  has  written. 
Poor  Laman  Blanchard,  whose  own  destiny  was  terminated  so 
prematurely,  in  his  "  Life  and  Literary  Remains  of  L.  E.  L.," 
tells  of  a  touching  and  graceful  compliment  once  paid  to  the 
subject  of  his  story:  "  It  was  a  tribute  from  America,  sent  from 
the  far-off  banks  of  the  Ohio,  a  curious  species  of  the  Michigan 
rose,  accompanied  by  a  prayer  that  she  would  plant  it  on  the 
grave  of  Mrs.  Hemans.  To  no  hand  could  it  have  been  more 
appropriately  transmitted  than  to  the  hand  which  wrote  so 
reverently  and  raptuously  of  that  gifted  woman  ;"  and  whose 
own  words  she  might  well  wailingly  quote,  and  say, 

"The  rose,  the  glorious  rose,  is  gone." 

It  does  seem  strange  that  flowers — and  of  all  flowers,  that 
most  brilliant  one,  the  rose — should  be  so  often  associated  with 
death  and  sorrow  ;  and  yet  the  combination  is  a  universal  one. 
Formerly,  the  rose  was  blended  with  the  lily,  to  form  a  general 
emblem  of  frail  mortality.  "  This  sweet  flower,"  says  Evelyn, 
"  borne  on  a  branch  set  with  thorn,  and  accompanied  with  the 
lily,  are  natural  hieroglyphics  of  our  fugitive,  anxious,  and  tran- 
sitory life,  which,  making  so  fair  a  show  for  a  time,  is  not  yet 
without  its  thorns  and  crosses."  Washington  Irving,  in  his 
sketch  of  rural  funerals,  says  :  *'  The  white  rose  was  planted  at 
the  grave  of  a  maiden  ;  her  chaplet  was  tied  with  white  ribands 
in  token  of  her  spotless  innocence,  though  sometimes  black 
ribands  were  intermingled,  to  bespeak  the  grief  of  survivors. 
The  red  rose  was  occasionally  used  ....  but  roses  in  general 
were  appropriated  to  the  graves  of  lovers."  Evelyn  tells  us 
that  near  his  residence  in  Surrey,  "  the  maidens  yearly  planted 
and  decked  the  graves  of  their  defunct  sweethearts  with  rose- 
bushes ;"  and  Camden,  in  his  "  Britannia,"  remarks  :  "  Here  is 
also  a  certain  custom,  observed  time  out  of  mind,  of  planting 
rose  trees  upon  the  graves,  especially  by  the  young  men  and 
maids  who  have  lost  their  loves." 


The  Rose.  29 


The  short  and  fracflle  nature  of  flowers  has  ever  caused  them 
to  be  regarded  as  types  of  the  frail  tenure  of  this  existence — 
so  much  so,  indeed,  that  many  restrain  from  even  plucking 
them,  and  even  regard  a  present  of  them  as  an  inauspicious 
omen.  A  promising  young  poetess,  who  has  just  departed  from 
amongst  us,  embodied  this  idea  in  the  following  touching  lines 
— rendered  all  the  more  pathetic  from  the  fact  that  their  pub- 
lication only  preceded  her  decease  by  a  few  weeks: 

**  Oh !  do  not  give  me  flowers,  my  love, 

Oh !  do  not  give  me  flowers  ! 
'T  is  an  omen  sad  to  give  your  love— 

These  fragile,  fading  flowers. 
Their  life  is  given  by  the  sun, 

His  warmth  and  light  their  birth, 
But  soon  must  every  fading  one 

Shed  its  pale  leaves  on  earth. 
Oh,  do  not  give  me  flowers,  my  love, 

Oh,  do  not  give  me  flowers  ! 
'T  is  an  omen  sad  to  give  your  love — 

These  fragile,  fading  flowers. 

**  I  would  not  wear  a  wreath  of  flowers 

Upon  my  bridal  day, 
Or  let  them  strew  my  path  with  showers 

Of  roses,  bright  and  gay. 
'T  is  better  they  should  shade  a  grave 

In  cool  and  lonely  dell, 
"Where  green  ferns  droop  and  harebells  wave 

Each  swaying  lilac  bell. 
Oh !  do  not  give  me  flowers,  my  love, 

Oh !  do  not  give  me  flowers ! 
'T  is  an  omen  sad  to  give  your  love — 

These  fragile,  fading  flowers." 

Ella  Ingram. 

But  enough  of  the  saddening  thoughts  engendered  by  such 
painful  associations.  "  To  fresh  fields,  and  pastures  new,"  O 
loving  reader,  come ! 

Is  there  any  need  to  remind  you  that  the  rose,  the  inter- 
preter of  our  finest  feelings  and  most  delicate  emotions,  is  em- 
blematical of  joy  and  love  ?  Consecrated  to  Venus,  the  Goddess 
of  Beauty,  like  her  it  is  a  type  of  all  that  is  most  graceful  in 
youth,  innocence  and  pleasure.  Celebrated  by  Anacreon  as 
'*  the  flower  of  flowers,"  and  extolled  by  every  succeeding,  ay, 
and  preceding  poet,  all  the  lavish  praise  it  has  received  has  not 


30  The  Rose. 


yet  enhausted  its  beauties — has  not  yet  even  completed  the 
catalogue  of  its  charms. 

Much  as  Western  folks  have  lauded  Queen  Rose,  their  com- 
mendations are  faint  compared  with  the  adulation  (we  had 
almost  said  adoration)  her  loveliness  invokes  from  the  natives 
of  Oriental  lands.  It  is  true  that  with  them  the  rose  attains  a 
magnitude  and  magnificence  scarcely  comprehended  in  these 
colder  climes.  There,  travellers  say,  the  elegance  of  the  trees, 
bending  beneath  their  load  of  fragrant  blossom,  is  beyond  all 
power  of  description  ;  and,  what  renders  the  attraction  greater, 
is  the  song  of  the  nightingales  continually  warbling  in  the 
bosom  of  their  beloved  flowers.     And,  as 

*'  Other  lands  and  other  floral  rites, 
The  thought  poetic  and  the  pen  invites," 

let  us  see  what  the  admiring  Oriental  has  to  say  about  the 
masterpiece  of  florigraphy. 

There  is  scarcely  a  great  name  in  their  literature  that  has 
not  paid  tribute  to  "  the  bloom  of  love."  Their  poems  are 
filled  with  its  praise,  and  quaintly  fantastic  are  some  of  the 
numberless  beautiful  legends  with  which  they  have  entwined 
it ;  but  of  all  the  charming  tales  they  tell  you  of  the  rose,  none 
are  more  poetically  valuable  than  those  which  describe  the 
passionate  love  borne  for  it  by  the  nightingale.  In  the  "  Book 
of  the  Nightingale,"  by  the  Persian  poet  Attar,  the  whole 
feathered  creation  is  represented  as  appearing  before  Solomon, 
and  making  a  charge  against  the  nightingale  of  disturbing 
their  rest  by  the  plaintiveness  of  its  warbling.  The  wise  king 
summoned,  questioned,  and  finally  acquitted  the  poor  bird, 
when  it  assured  him  that  its  frenzied  strains  were  caused  by 
the  distracting  love  it  entertained  for  the  rose — a  love  that 
compelled  it  to  ease  its  oppressed  bosom  by  breaking  forth 
into  the  touching  lamentations  for  which  it  was  accused. 
This  legend  is  a  favourite  one  with  the  Persians,  who  devoutly 
believe  that  this  bird  flutters  about  the  rose  until,  overpowered 
by  love  and  perfume,  it  falls  to  the  ground  stupefied. 

Saadi,  Hafiz,  Jami,  and  numberless  other  Persian  poets  of 
more  or  less  renown,  have  sung  the  praises  of  "  the  blooming 
rose;"  and  from  the  verses  of  the  last  named  we  learn  that 
the  first  rose  appeared  in  Gulistan  at  the  time  the  flowers 


The  Rose.  31 


demanded  a  new  sovereign  from  Allah,  because  the  drowsy 
lotus  would  slumber  at  night.  At  first  the  maiden  queen  was 
snowy  white,  and  encircled  with  a  protecting  guard  of  thorns  ; 
but  the  poor  nightingale  fell  into  such  an  ecstacy  of  love  over 
her  charms,  and  so  recklessly  pressed  his  lovelorn  and  musical 
heart  against  those  cruel  thorns,  that  his  blood,  so  far  as  it 
could  trickle  into  the  blossom's  bosom,  dyed  it  crimson ;  and, 
as  the  poet  justly  observes,  "  are  not  the  petals  white  at  the 
extremity  where  the  poor  little  bird's  blood  could  not  reach  ?" 

The  above-named  Gulistan,  so  famed  in  Persian  story,  is  the 
place  where  so  many  roses  were  grown  that  it  was  a  five  days* 
camel-ride  through  the  great  garden.  Thence  was  brought  the 
precious  attar  for  the  Shah's  own  use,  and  thence  came  daily 
fresh-plucked  petals  for  the  bed  of  the  Sultana,  who  could  not 
sleep  if  the  rose-leaves  were  too  much  crumpled. 

Jackson,  in  his  "Journey,"  says  that  the  roses  of  the  Sinan 
Nile,  or  "  Garden  of  the  Nile,"  are  unequalled,  and  that  mat- 
tresses are  made  of  their  leaves  for  men  of  rank  to  recline  on. 

In  this  famous  Gulistan  it  was,  too,  that  they  discovered 
how  to  manufacture  the  renowned  rose  wine — a  glass  of  which 
wonderful  liquor  would  make  the  sternest  monarch  merciful,  or 
make  the  sickliest  mortal  slumber  amid  his  pains  ;  and  it  was 
in  this  same  Gulistan  that  they  all  knew  what  were  those  "five 
secrets  of  Allah  "  which  the  five  petals  of  the  first  rose  signified. 
The  Turks  believe  that  roses  sprang  from  the  perspiration  ot 
Mahomet,  who  christened  his  white  mare  which  brought  him 
from  Medina,  "Werda,"  after  the  snowy  blossom — and  for 
that  reason  they  never  tread  upon  a  rose-leaf,  or  suiter  one  to 
lie  upon  the  ground.  They  also,  it  is  said,  sculpture  a  rose  on 
the  tombstones  of  females  who  die  unmarried.  The  story  of 
the  learned  Zeb,  who  intimated  by  a  rose-leaf  that  he  might 
be  received  into  the  silent  academy  of  Amadan,  is  a  popular 
one  amongst  Oriental  nations.  The  vacant  place  for  which  he 
applied  having  been  filled  up  before  his  arrival,  the  president 
intimated  this  to  him  by  filling  a  glass  so  full  of  water  that  a 
single  additional  drop  would  have  made  it  run  over ;  but  Zeb 
contrived  to  place  the  petal  of  a  rose  so  delicately  upon  the 
water  that  it  was  not  disturbed  in  the  least,  and  was  rewarded 
for  his  ingenious  allusion  by  instant  admission  into  the  society. 

Father  Catron,  in  his  "  History  of  the  Mogul  Empire,"  says 


32  •  T^HE  Rose. 


that  the  celebrated  Princess  Nourmahal  filled  an  entire  canal 
with  rose-water,  upon  which  she  was  in  the  habit  of  sailing 
with  the  Great  Mogul.  The  heat  of  the  sun  disengaged  the 
essential  oil  from  the  liquid,  and  through  its  being  observed 
floating  on  the  surface,  the  discovery  was  made  of  that  far- 
famed  perfume,  "attar  of  roses." 

Another  of  those  extraordinary  princesses  of  antiquity — 
Cleopatra — was  pleased  to  link  her  fame  to  what  William 
Sawyer,  one  of  our  living  poets,  calls  "the  passion-hearted 
rose."  The  wily  Egyptian  once  received  her  latest  lover, 
Antony,  in  an  apartment  covered  to  a  considerable  depth  with 
rose-leaves  ;  and  Antony  himself,  when  dying,  begged  to  have 
roses  scattered  o'er  his  tomb. 

Some  of  the  mythologists  ascribe  the  origin  of  the  rose  to 
the  beautiful  Rhodante,  Queen  of  Corinth,  who,  to  escape  from 
the  persecutions  of  her  lovers,  attempted  to  seclude  herself  in 
the  Temple  of  Diana;  being  forced  from  her  sanctuary  by  the 
clamour  of  the  people,  she  prayed  the  gods  to  metamophosise 
her  into  a  flower,  and  the  rose,  into  which  she  was  changed, 
still  bears  the  blushes  that  dyed  her  cheeks  when  forced  to 
expose  herself  to  public  gaze. 

The  fragrance  with  which  this  "  earth  star  "  is  so  richly  en- 
dowed, is  stated  by  those  same  poetical  ancients  to  be  derived 
from  a  cup  of  nectar  thrown  over  it  by  Cupid  ;  and  its  thorns, 
they  say,  are  the  stings  of  the  bees  with  which  the  arc  of  his 
bow  was  strung. 

The  Hindoo  mythologists  (who  are  not  a  whit  less  poetical 
than  their  Hellenic,  Latin,  or  Mahommedan  brethren)  say  that 
Pagoda  Siri,  one  of  the  wives  of  Vishnu,  was  discovered  in  a 
rose.  What  an  appropriate  bower  was  that  for  a  lovely  god- 
dess to  recline  in ! 

Hebrew  literature  also  paid  due  homage  to  these  glorious 
blossoms,  which,  as  William  Sawyer  says,  are  "  as  bright  as  if 
their  blooms  were  blooms  of  light !"  One  of  their  suggestive 
fables  says  that,  early  one  morning,  a  maiden  went  into  a  gar- 
den to  gather  a  garland  of  roses.  There  they  all  grew — mere 
buds,  just  opening  to  the  ripening  sun.  "  I  will  not  pluck  3^ou 
yet,"  said  the  girl ;  "  the  sun  shall  open  you  first,  that  you  may 
be  still  more  beautiful,  and  your  scent  stronger."  She  returned 
at  noonday,  and  found  the  loveliest  roses  gnawed  by  a  worm, 


The  Rose. 


ZZ 


and  bending  before  the  scorching  rays  of  the  sun,  withered  and 
dead !  The  young  girl  wept  for  her  folly  ;  and  the  following 
morning  she  gathered  her  garland  early. 

Another  equally  appropriate  fable  from  the  same  collection 
tells  of  a  pious  man,  who,  one  day,  was  sorrowfully  pacing  up 
and  down  his  garden,  and  doubting  the  care  of  Providence. 
At  length  he  stood  transfixed  before  a  rose-bush ;  and  thus 
spake  the  spirit  of  the  rose  unto  him  :  "  Do  I  not  animate  a 
beautiful  plant — a  cup  of  thanksgiving,  full  of  fragrance  to  the 
Lord,  in  the  name  of  all  flowers,  and  an  offering  of  the  sweet- 
est incense  to  Him  }  And  where  do  you  find  me  }  Amongst 
thorns.  But  they  do  not  sting  me  ;  they  protect  and  give  me 
sap.  This  thine  enemies  do  for  thee ;  and  should  not  thy  spirit 
be  firmer  than  that  of  a  frail  flower  ?"  Strengthened,  the  man 
went  thence,  and  his  soul  became  a  cup  of  thanksgiving  for  his 
enemies. 

Oriental  races  appear  to  entertain  some  superstitious  ideas 
respecting  the  sanctity  of  the  rose,  and  evidently  rely  upon  its 
efftcacy  to  obliterate  all  desecrating  powers.  Thus,  when  Sala- 
din  reconquered  Jerusalem,  in  1 128,  he  would  not  enter  the 
Mosque  of  the  Temple,  which  the  Christians  had  been  using 
as  a  church,  until  the  walls  had  been  thoroughly  washed  and 
purified  with  rose-water.  Voltaire  also  relates  that  after  the 
taking  of  Constantinople  by  Mahmoud  II.,  in  1453,  the  church 
of  St.  Sophia  was  cleansed  in  a  similar  manner  with  rose-water, 
before  it  was  converted  into  a  mosque. 

The  Catholic  Church  has  always  regarded  the  rose  as  a 
mystical  flower ;  and  formerly  it  was  the  custom  with  her  to 
employ  it  at  every  ceremony  from  birth  to  burial.  Large 
vessels  filled  with  rose-water  were  used  at  baptisms,  in  illustra- 
tion of  which  practice,  Bayle  relates  that  at  the  baptism  of 
Ronsard,  his  nurse,  on  the  way  to  the  church,  let  him  fall  upon 
a  heap  of  flowers ;  and  at  that  same  instant  the  woman  who 
held  the  vessel  of  rose-water  poured  it  upon  the  infant.  "  All 
this/'  says  Bayle,  "  has  been  regarded  as  a  happy  omen  of  the 
great  esteem  in  which  his  poems  would  one  day  be  held." 

At  marriages  and  other  festivities,  in  the  middle  ages,  the 
guests  wore  chaplets  of  roses.  The  author  of  "  Percefcret," 
describing  an  entertainment,  says,  "  Every  person  wore  a  chap- 
let  of  roses  on  his  head.      The  Constable   of  France  (and 

3 


34  The  Rose. 

probably  other  great  officers  at  other  Courts),  when  he  waited 
on  the  King  at  dinner,  had  one  of  these  crowns.  Women, 
when  they  took  the  veil,  and  when  they  married,  were  thus 
adorned.  Warriors  wore  their  helmets  encircled  by  these 
flowers,  as  may  be  seen  from  their  monumental  figures.  This 
fondness  of  our  ancestors  for  this  fragrant  and  elegant  flower, 
and  the  various  uses  to  which  they  applied  it,  explains  a  par- 
ticular that  at  first  sight  appears  somewhat  whimsical,  which  is, ' 
the  bushels  of  roses  sometimes  paid  by  vassals  to  their  lords." 

As  an  instance  of  these  "whimsical "  grants,  take  one  made 
in  1576,  by  Richard  Cox,  Bishop  of  Ely,  to  Christopher  (after- 
wards Sir  Christopher)  Hatton,  of  great  part  of  Ely  House, 
Holborn,  for  twenty-one  years,  in  which  the  tenant  covenants 
to  pay,  on  Midsummer  Day,  a  red  rose  for  the  gate-house 
and  garden  ;  the  Bishop  reserving  to  himself  and  successors 
free  access  through  the  gate-house,  for  walking  in  the  gardens^ 
and  gathering  twenty  bushels  of  roses  yearly.  j 

The  demand  for  these  beautiful  flowers  was  formerly  so 
great  that  it  was  indeed  no  unusual  thing  for  vassals,  both  in 
France  and  England,  to  pay  bushels  of  them  to  their  lords  ; 
and  there  are  instances  of  a  single  rose  being  deemed  an 
equivalent  for  rent.  Thus,  Sir  William  Clopton  granted  to 
Thomas  Smith  a  piece  of  ground,  called  Dokmedwe,  in  Han- 
stede,  for  the  annual  payment  of  a  rose,  at  the  Nativity  of 
John  the  Baptist,  to  Sir  William,  and  his  heirs,  in  lieu  of  all 
services  :  dated  at  Hanstede,  on  Sunday  next  before  the  Feast 
of  All  Saints,  3  Henry  IV.,  1402. 

Chaucer  is  one  of  the  earliest  English  authors  who  mentions 
this  flower :  and  in  his  "Romaunt  of  the  Rose,"  (a  translation 
from  the  French)  he  gives  many  of  the  emblematical  meanings 
assigned  to  it  in  the  mediaeval  ages  ;  and  William  Dunbar,  one 
of  Scotland's  truest  as  well  as  oldest  bards,  most  poetically 
describes  the  happy  union  of  Princess  Margaret  of  England 
with  his  royal  master,  James  IV.  of  Scotland,  under  the  alle- 
gorical title  of  "  The  Thistle  and  the  Rose." 

In  the  days  of  chivalry  roses  were  often  worn  by  chevaliers 
at  tournaments,  as  an  emblem  of  their  devotion  to  love  and 
beauty ;  knightS;  also  at  tournaments  wore  roses  embroidered 
in  their  sleeves,  as  an  emblem  that  gentleness  should  accom- 
pany courage,  and  that  beauty  was  the  reward  of  valour. 


The  Rose.  35 

The  Golden  Rose  which  the  Pope  presents  to  contemporary 
sovereigns  is  an  institution  of  the  middle  ages  :  the  flower  is 
considered  an  emblem  of  the  mortality  of  the  body,  and  the 
gold  of  which  it  is  composed,  of  the  immortality  of  the  soul. 

There  is  an  old  mosaic,  in  the  church  of  St.  Susan  at  Rome, 
in  which  Charlemagne  is  represented  kneeling,  and  receiving 
from  St.  Peter  a  standard  covered  with  roses. 

There  are  numerous  traditions  of  the  Catholic  Church  with 
which  "  the  flower  of  flowers  "  is  associated.  Marullus  tells  a 
story  of  a  holy  virgin  named  Dorothea,  who  suffered  martyr- 
dom in  Caesarea,  under  the  government  of  Fabricius,  and  who 
converted  to  Christianity  a  scribe  named  Theophilus,  by  send- 
ing him,  in  the  winter-time,  some  roses  out  of  Paradise. 

It  has  already  been  shown  that  the  rose  was  occasionally 
used  as  typical  of  sorrowful  feelings,  and  the  Greeks,  who 
realized  all  their  ideals,  not  only  dedicated  it  to  Venus  as  an 
emblem  of  love  and  beauty,  and  to  Aurora  as  an  emblem  of 
youth,  but  also  to  Cupid  as  an  emblem  of  fugacity  and  danger, 
from  the  fleeting  nature  of  its  charms  and  the  wounds  inflicted 
by  its  thorns. 

In  many  countries  the  rose  seems  to  be  the  flower  most 
frequently  connected  with  the  death  of  youths  and  children. 
"  In  Poland,"  says  Phillips,  "they  cover  the  coflins  of  children 
with  roses;  and  when  the  funeral  passes  the  streets,  a  multitude 
of  these  flowers  are  thrown  from  the  windows." 

Mrs.  Edward  Thomas,  in  some  expressive  lines  upon  the 
death  of  a  child,  alluding  to  a  singular  custom  observed  by 
the  Mexicans,  says, 

"They  wreathe  the  very  thought  of  death  with  flowers, 
And  make  his  altar  fair  as  marriage  shine;" 

in  a  foot-note  subjoining  these  particulars  :  "At  the  funeral  of 
a  child  in  Acapulco,  Mexico,  the  body  was  dressed  m.agnifl- 
cently,  crowned  with  roses^  and  the  table  on  which  it  was  laid 
was  covered  with  flowers.  The  table  was  carried  through  the 
streets  with  the  child  on  it ;  three  or  four  men  and  boys  walked 
in  front  firing  rockets  ;  and  the  military  band  followed,  playing 
the  gayest  music.  Regarding  the  death  of  children  as  merely 
their  translation  to  an  angelic  existence,  such  an  event  amongst 
these  people  is  an  occasion  of  joy  rather  than  mourning." 


36  The  Rose. 

This  custom  reminds  one  of  the  habits  of  a  certain  Thracian 
tribe,  of  whom  Herodotus  relates  that  they  mourned  at  the 
child's  birth  into  the  misery  of  this  world,  and  held  jubilee  at 
the  interment  of  their  relatives,  because  of  their  deliverance 
from  an  infinity  of  ills. 

The  French  carry  out  to  excess,  not  only  the  custom  of 
decorating  graves  with  flowers,  but  also  the  penalties  ordained 
for  those  who  injure  the  funeral  blossoms.  "Le  Moniteur'* 
relates  that  a  woman  named  Bade,  who  was  employed  at  a 
handsome  stipend  to  attend  to  the  flowers  planted  upon  a 
tomb  in  the  Cimetiere  du  Sud,  finding  that  two  magnificent 
rose-trees,  which  overshaded  the  grave,  Avere  withered,  instead 
of  purchasing  others  to  supply  their  place,  abstracted  two  ot 
a  similar  species  from  a  neighbouring  tomb,  and  exchanged 
them  for  those  that  had  died  under  her  care,  or  rather  neglect. 
The  superintendent  of  the  cemetery  discovered  the  theft,  and 
knowing  that  it  was  not  her  first  offence,  made  a  complaint 
against  the  woman,  and  the  consequence  was  that  she  received 
a  twelvemonth's  imprisonment ! 

These  same  French  have  a  very  pretty  custom  connected 
v/ith  the  rose,  which  in  some  respects  resembles  the  old  English 
one  of  selecting  a  May  Queen.  The  inhabitants  of  a  village 
select  the  girl  they  deem  best  deserving  the  prize  of  virtue, 
and,  carrying  her  in  triumph  to  a  neighbouring  church,  there 
crown  her,  with  a  wreath  of  roses,  queen  of  their  village  for 
the  ensuing  year.  Tradition  asserts  that  this  innocent  festival 
was  first  instituted  in  the  sixth  century,  at  Salency,  his  birth- 
place, by  St.  Medard  (the  French  St.  Swithin),  Bishop  of  Noyon ; 
and,  adds  the  story,  the  good  prelate  had  the  pleasure  of  crown- 
ing his  own  sister  as  first  Rose-Queen  of  Salency. 

Another  foreign  festival  appertaining  to  this  emblem  of  joy, 
was  that  held  in  the  middle  ages  at  the  Italian  city  of  Treviso, 
where  the  inhabitants  periodically  erected  a  fortress  of  carpets, 
silk  hangings,  and  similar  materials.  The  city  maidens  took 
possession,  after  having  seen  that  their  stronghold  was  well 
supplied  with  spices,  flowers — especially  rose.s — and  other  war- 
like missiles.  When  all  was  prepared,  the  fortalice  was  vigor- 
ously attacked  by  a  party  of  the  opposite  sex,  who  were  met 
by  showers  of  rose-water  and  volleys  of  sweet  things,  until,  as 
in  duty  bound,  they  surrendered  at  discretion.     Amongst  the 


The  Rose.  37 


■many  high  and  mighty  ones  who  came  to  witness  or  take  part 
in  this  entertainment  was  the  German  Emperor  Barbarossa ; 
and  he  is  stated  to  have  declared  it  to  have  been  one  of  the 
greatest  diversions  that  he  had  ever  enjoyed. 

These  attractive  customs  were  doubtless  derived  from  the 
East:  somev/hat  similar  ones  have  existed  in  Persia  'iiovix  time 
immemorial.  Sir  William  Ouseley  tells  us,  in  his  "  Travels  in 
Persia,"  that  when  he  entered  the  flower  garden  belonging  to 
the  governor  of  the  castle  near  Fassa,  he  was  overwhelmed 
with  roses ;  and  in  the  present  days,  when  these  beloved 
flowers  are  in  full  bloom,  bands  of  young  men  parade  the 
streets  of  the  cities,  singing,  dancing,  playing,  and  pelting 
those  they  meet  with  showers  of  roses.  In  return  for  these 
amusements,  the  spectators  reward  them  with  trifling  gra- 
tuities, with  which  they  then  betake  themselves  to  places  of 
public  entertainment. 

In  Smyrna  they  demonstrate  their  love  for  the  queen  of 
flowers  by  calling  one  of  their  streets,  after  her,  "  The  Street 
of  Roses."  The  Londoners  also,  it  is  true,  have  several  Rose 
Streets ;  but,  alas !  none  of  them  are  so  fragrant  as  their  name 
would  seem  to  imply. 

Amongst  many  nations  of  antiquity  it  was  customary  to 
crown  bridal  couples  with  wreaths  of  white  and  red  roses ;  and 
in  the  processions  of  the  Corybantes,  Cybele,  the  protecting 
deity  of  cities,  was  pelted  with  these  odoriferous  blossoms.. 
The  Roman  generals  w^ho  had  achieved  any  remarkable  vic- 
tory were  permitted  to  have  roses  sculptured  on  their  shields. 
Rose-water  was  the  favourite  perfume  of  the  Roman  ladies, 
and  the  most  luxurious  even  used  it  in  their  baths.  In  that 
wonderfully  entertaining  old  romance,  "  The  Golden  Ass  "  of 
Apuleius,  the  Latin  prototype  of  "  Gil  Bias,"  the  hero,  Lucius, 
recovers  his  human  form  by  eating  some  of  the  roses  from  the 
crown  which  the  priest  of  Isis  carried  in  the  procession  annu- 
ally held  in  honour  of  the  goddess  Cybele. 

A  writer  in  the  ''  Household  Words,"  in  an  article  containing 
some  exquisite  bits  about  those  most  exquisite  of  all  things, 
roses,  speaking  of  a  certain  autumnal  specimen  of  the  tribe, 
thus  humorously  tells  its  tale :  **  It  is,"  she  says,  "  a  turncoat 
flower,  whose  history  I  blush  to  relate,  but  averts  your  censure 
like  other  fair  offenders;  for,  if  to  its  lot  some  floral  errors  fall, 


38  The  Rose. 


look  in  its  face,  and  you  '11  forget  them  all !  It  made  its  appear- 
ance during  Louis  the  Eighteenth's  time,  and  was  named  Rose 
du  Roi,  or  the  King's  Rose,  in  compliment  to  him.  But  whert 
Buonaparte  came  over  from  Elba  and  put  the  King  to  flight, 
the  proprietor,  thinking  that  his  new  rose  with  any  other  name 
would  bring  in  more  money,  deemed  it  good  policy  to  re- 
christen  it  Rose  d'Empereur,  or  the  Emperor's  Rose.  But  the 
Hundred  Days  were  a  limited  number,  and  the  Battle  of  Wa- 
terloo again  changed  the  aspect  of  political  affairs.  The  rose 
ratted  once  more,  and  was  re-styled  Rose  du  Roi.  It  is  known 
in  England  as  the  Crimson  Perpetual ;  I  should  have  called  it 
the  Crimson  Weathercock." 

This  rose  was  apparently  a  time-server  and  a  political  rene- 
gade ;  but  the  next  to  be  spoken  of  were  fierce  and  faithful  to 
the  cause  which  took  its  name  from  them.  Shakspeare  has 
embalmed  the  legendary  history  attached  to  the  York  and 
Lancaster  roses  in  his  play  of  **  Henry  VI."  The  story  runs. 
that  various  adherents  of  the  rival  Yorkist  and  Lancastrian 
factions  were  disputing  in  the  Temple  Gardens,  when  Edward 
Mortimer's  nephew  and  heir,  Richard  Plantagenet,  interrupted, 
the  conversation  by  saying, 

"Let  him  that  is  a  tme-born  gentleman, 
And  stands  upon  the  honour  of  his  birth, 
If  he  suppose  that  I  have  pleaded  truth, 
From  off  this  briar  pluck  a  white  rose  with  me." 

To  which  the  Earl  of  Suffolk  made  reply, 

"Let  him  that  is  no  coward  and  no  flatterer, 
But  dare  maintain  the  party  of  the  tnith, 
Pluck  a  red  rose  from  off  this  thorn  with  me. " 

On  their  respective  followers  imitating  their  example,  the  Earl' 
of  Warwick  prophesies  that  the  result  of  this  feud 

"  Shall  send  between  the  red  rose  and  the  white 
A  thousand  souls  to  death  and  deadly  night. " 

And  history  duly  records  how  mournfully  his  prediction  was- 
verified  by  the  succeeding  Wars  of  the  Roses,  as  they  are 
termed  ;  but  also  records  how  the  effusion  of  blood  was  at 
last  stayed  by  the  union  of  the  two  rival  families  in  the  mar- 
riage of  Henry  VII.  with  the  heiress  of  the  house  of  York, 


The  Rose.  39 

thus  affording  an  opportunity  of  creating  the  very  pretty  floral 
fancy  typified  in  the  crimson  and  white  striped  rose,  that  hence- 
fortli  was  considered  emblematical  of  the  aUiance. 

Not  only  has  this  beautiful  flower  been  selected  as  the  signal 
for  contention  and  slaughter,  but,  strange  to  relate,  has  at  times 
been  even  the  means  of  almost — if  not  quite — killing  some 
sensitive  members  of  the  geiius  homo.  Many  have  heard  of 
the  singular  horror  with  which  the  odour  of  certain  flowers 
inspires  some  people;  but  few  are  aware  that  to  "die  of  a  rose 
in  aromatic  pain  "  is  something  more  than  a  poetical  fiction  ; 
and  yet  many  such  things  are  on  record.  Amatus  Lusitanus 
is  cited  by  Dr.  Millinger,  amongst  many  other  authorities,  and 
he  relates  the  case  of  a  monk  who  fainted  when  he  beheld  a 
rose,  and  never  quitted  his  cell  while  that  flower  was  in  bloom. 
Ofila  gives  the  instance  of  the  painter  Vincent,  who  was  seized 
with  violent  vertigo  whenever  there  were  roses  in  the  room. 

Who  would  have  thought  that  a  flower — only  a  flower — 
could  have  wrought  so  much  pleasure  and  pain  in  this  mun- 
dane sphere  }  Truly  "  roses  are  linked  by  the  chain  of  asso- 
ciation with  a  thousand  chapters  in  the  history  of  our  race : 
they  point  to  the  Wars  of  the  Roses ;  to  Saadi  and  the  Gulistan ; 
to  the  Pope's  Golden  Rose ;  to  Rosamund,  surnamed  of  rosa 
mimdi ;  to  the  'bower  of  roses  by  Bendemeer's  stream;'  to 
the  Rosicrucians,  and  everything  else  that  is  or  was  in  the 
least  degree  roseate." 

Few  are  those  who  will  not  be  able  to  exclaim  with  Eliza 
Cook,  when  recalling  to  mind  how  many  past  events  of  their 
life  have  been  associated  with  these  universally  admired  blooms, 

* '  There  is  much  in  my  past  bearing  waymarks  of  flowers, 
The  purest  and  rarest  in  odour  and  bloom ; 
There  are  beings  and  breathings  and  places  and  hours 
Still  trailing  in  roses  o'er  Memory's  tomb." 

But  what  are  all  our  rosy  customs  and  festivals  compared 
with  Oriental  ones  "^  Already  have  several  Persian  legends 
connected  with  the  rose  been  alluded  to ;  but  it  is  impossible 
to  exhaust  the  theme.  "  Lalla  Rookh  "  is  replete  with  roseate 
similes  ;  for,  as  Moore  therein  remarks,  when  speaking  of  the 
Feast  of  Roses, 

"That  joyous  time,  when  pleasures  pour 
Profusely  round,  and  in  their  shower 


40  The  Rose. 


Hearts  open  like  the  season's  rose, 

The  flow'ret  of  a  hundred  leaves, 
Expanding  while  the  dew-fall  flows, 

And  eveiy  leaf  its  balm  receives. " 

Tavernier  tells  us  that  it  is  affirmed  by  the  Ghebers,  or  Fire- 
Worshippers,  of  Persia,  that  when  Abraham,  their  great  pro- 
phet, was  thrown  into  the  fire  by  order  of  Nimrod,  the  flame 
turned  instantly  into  a  bed  of  roses,  where  the  child  sweetly 
reposed.     Moore  thus  availed  himself  of  the  tradition  : 

**  Is  sweet  and  welcome  as  the  bed 

For  their  own  infant  prophet  spread, 
When  pitying  Heaven  to  roses  turn'd  '■" 

The  death-flames  that  beneath  him  bum'd." 

All  roses  are  justly  celebrated,  but  "  the  rose  of  Cashmere," 
says  Forster,  "  for  its  brilliancy  and  delicacy  of  odour  has  long 
been  proverbial  in  the  East." 

' '  Who  has  not  heard  of  the  Vale  of  Cashmere 
With  its  roses,  the  brightest  that  earth  ever  gave?" 

demands  Tom  Moore ;  and  really,  if  it  is  anything  like  Sir 
Robert  Porters  description  of  one  of  the  royal  gardens  of 
Persia,  no  one  can  blame  the  poet's  high-flown  rhapsodies. 

*'  On  my  first  entering  this  bower  of  fairyland,"  says  Sir 
Robert, "  I  was  struck  with  the  appearance  of  two  rose-trees 
full  fourteen  feet  high,  laden  with  thousands  of  flowers  in 
every  degree  of  expansion,  and  of  a  bloom  and  delicacy  of 
scent  that  embued  the  whole  atmosphere  with  exquisite  per- 
fume. Indeed,  I  believe  that  in  no  country  in  the  world  does 
the  rose  grow  in  such  perfection  as  in  Persia ;  in  no  country  is 
it  so  cultivated  and  prized  by  the  natives.  Their  gardens  and 
courts  are  crowded  by  its  plants,  their  rooms  ornamented  with 
vases  filled  with  its  gathered  bunches,  and  every  bath  strewed 
with  the  full-blown  flowers,  plucked  from  the  ever-replenished 
stems.  .  .  .  But  in  this  delicious  garden  of  Negaaristan 
the  eye  and  the  smell  are  not  the  only  senses  regaled  by  the 
presence  of  the  rose.  The  ear  is  enchanted  by  the  wild  and 
beautiful  notes  of  multitudes  of  nightingales,  whose  warblings 
seem  to  increase  in  melody  and  softness  with  the  unfolding  of 
their  fav^ourite  flower.  Here,  indeed,  the  stranger  is  most 
powerfully  reminded  that  he  is  in  the  country  of  the  nightin- 
gale and  the  rose." 


The  Rose. 


The  loves  of  the  nightingale  and  the  rose  have  already  been 
more  than  once  alluded  to,  but  the  subject  is  inexhaustible. 
This  melodious  bird  appears  in  the  East  at  the  season  when 
its  adored  flower  begins  to  blow,  which  has  engendered  the 
poetical  fiction  that  it  bursts  forth  from  its  bud  at  the  song  of 
its  admirer.  Says  the  admired  poet,  Jami,  "  The  nightingales 
warbled  their  enchanting  notes  and  rent  the  thin  veils  of  the 
rose-bud  and  the  rose;"  and  Moore  has  sung,  in  his  soft  song, 

**  Oh,  sooner  shall  the  rose  of  May- 
Mistake  her  oviTi  sweet  nightingale, 

And  to  some  meaner  minstrel's  lay 
Open  her  bosom's  glowing  veil, 

Tlian  love  shall  ever  doubt  a  tone — 

A  breath — of  the  beloved  one ! " 

Mrs.  Browning  has  alluded  in  the  most  exquisite  tones  to 
this  sweet  legend  in  her  '*  Lay  of  the  Early  Rose  " — that  foolish 
flower  that  oped  her  petals  ere  the  summer  came,  and  deemed 

"Ten  nightingales  shall  flee 
Their  woods  for  love  of  me. " 

Jami  asserts  with  poetic  freedom  that  "  You  may  place  a  hand- 
full  of  fragrant  herbs  and  flowers  before  the  nightingale ;  yet 
he  wishes  not  in  his  constant  heart  for  more  than  the  sweet 
breath  of  his  beloved  rose." 

*'  Though  rich  the  spot 

With  every  flower  this  earth  has  got, 
What  is  it  to  the  nightingale 

If  there  his  darling  rose  is  not?" 

asks  the  author  of  "  Lalla  Rookh."  The  followin^r  lines  are 
from  a  lyric  of  Hafiz,  vv^herein  the  poet  assumes  the  character 
of  a  nightingale  in  addressing  his  love : 

"Once  more  see  the  nightingale,  languid  and  faint, 
Pours  forth  to  the  garden  his  sorrowful  plaint : 
May  the  rose  ever  flourish  in  beauty  and  bloom ; 
May  evil  ne'er  touch  her,  misfortune  ne'er  come ; 
Long,  long  may  she  flourish  wherever  she 's  seen, 
And  rule  'midst  the  flowers  as  the  sovereign  queen  ! 
But,  oh,  may  she  smile  with  less  scornful  an  eye, 
Nor  leave  her  poor  lovers  to  languish  and  die  ! " 

Lord  Byron  did  not  overlook  the  pretty  fable,  and  in  the 
"  Bride  of  Abydos"  makes  a  solitary  rose  bloom  above  Zuleika's 


42  The  Rose. 

tomb,  over  which  the  love-lorn  nightingale  poured  forth  his 
plaintive  notes: 

*'  A  single  rose  is  shedding  there 

Its  lonely  lustre,  meek  and  pale : 
It  looks  as  planted  by  despair — 

So  white,  so  faint — the  slightest  gale 
Might  whirl  the  leaves  on  high ; 

And  yet,  though  storms  and  blight  assail. 
And  hands  more  rude  than  wintry  sky 

May  wring  it  from  its  stem ;  in  vain — 

To-morrow  sees  it  bloom  again !     .     ^     • 

To  it  the  livelong  night  there  sings 

A  bird  unseen,  but  not  remote : 
Invisible  his  airy  wings, 
But  soft  as  harp  that  Houri  strings 

His  long  entrancing  note." 

Syria  is  thought  by  Richardson  to  have  derived  its  name 
from  suriy  a  beautiful  and  delicate  species  of  rose  for  which 
the  country  has  been  celebrated  from  time  immemorial;  hence 
its  Oriental  name,  Suristan,  the  Land  of  Roses.  There,  as  Byron. 
sings  in  the  "  Giaour,"  is 

*'The  rose,  o'er  crag  or  vale, 

Sultana  of  the  nightingale, 

The  maid  for  whom  his  melody, 

His  thousand  songs,  are  heard  on  high, 

Blooms  blushing  to  her  lover's  tale : 

His  queen,  the  garden  queen,  his  rose, 

Unbent  by  winds,  unchill'd  by  snows, 

Far  from  the  winters  of  the  west. 

By  every  breeze  and  season  blest. 

Returns  the  sweets  by  nature  given 

In  softest  incense  back  to  heaven." 

The  violet  is  very  highly  prized  in  the  East ;  but,  says  Hafir,. 
"  When  the  rose  enters  the  garden,  even  the  violet  prostrates 
itself  before  it  with  its  face  to  the  ground." 

But  Persian  legends  of  and  allusions  to  the  queen  of  flowers 
are  innumerable,  and  still  many  blossoms  nearer  home  await 
our  culling.  One  of  the  most  memorable  plants  in  existence 
is  the  renowned  rose-tree  of  Hildersheim,  said  to  have  been 
set  by  Charlemagne,  in  commemoration  of  a  visit  of  respect 
paid  to  him  by  the  ambassador  of  the  celebrated  Caliph  Haroun 
Alraschid;  and  who,  as  a  symbol  of  his  authority,  carried  a 
purple  banner,  on  which  were  embroidered  the  arms  of  his 
sovereign,  being  roses  on  a  golden  field.   The  wonderful  legend 


The  Rose.  43 

of  the  ancient  tree  runs  thus:  Louis  the  Pious  came  to  the 
district  on  a  hunting  expedition,  and  after  the  sport  ordered 
Mass  to  be  said  in  the  open  air.  On  retiring  to  his  habitation, 
the  priest  who  had  officiated  at  the  ceremony  missed  the  Holy 
Image,  and  his  search  for  it  proving  fruitless,  he  returned  to 
the  spot,  and  to  his  surprise  beheld  it  between  the  branches  of 
a  wild  rose-tree.  Attempting  to  regain  it,  he  was  awe-stricken 
to  find  that  it  eluded  his  grasp,  and,  after  several  vain  efforts 
to  obtain  the  sacred  object,  he  went  back  to  Louis,  and  informed 
him  and  his  Court  of  what  had  taken  place.  All  rushed  forth 
and  fell  on  their  knees  before  the  miraculous  tree,  over  which 
the  superstitious  monarch  ordered  a  cathedral  to  be  built.  Dr. 
Grashop,  of  Hildersheim,  gives  the  following  description  of  its 
present  condition :  The  roots  are  buried  in  a  sort  of  coffin- 
shaped  vault  under  the  middle  altar  of  the  crypt,  which  crypt 
is  proved  by  known  documents  to  have  been  built  in  the  year 
818,  and  to  have  survived  the  burning  of  the  other  parts  of  the 
cathedral  on  the  21st  of  January,  1013,  and  the  23rd  of  March, 
1 146;  so  that  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  claim  of  this 
rose-tree — which,  despite  its  thousand  years  of  age,  still  blos- 
soms profusely — to  be  the  oldest  in  the  world,  is  just. 

The  affection  entertained  in  all  countries  for  the  rose,  and 
its  constant  association  with  humanity,  have  caused  its  various 
developments  from  bud  to  scattered  bloom,  to  be  universally 
deemed  emblematic  of  man's  transitory  existence,  as  also  of 
"  the  course  of  true  love."  Berkeley,  in  his  "  Utopia,"  describes 
lovers  as  declaring  their  passion  by  presenting  to  the  fair  be- 
loved a  rose-bttd  just  beginning  to  open,  our  symbol  of  a  con- 
fession of  love.  If  the  lady  accepted  and  wore  the  bud,  she 
was  supposed  to  favour  his  pretensions.  As  time  intensified 
the  lover's  affection,  he  followed  up  the  first  present  by  that 
of  a  half-blown  rose,  significant  of  love ;  and  this  was  again 
followed  by  one  full  blown,  typical  of  engagement ;  and  if  the 
lady  wore  this  last,  she  was  considered  as  engaged  for  life. 

Leigh  Hunt,  in  his  "  Descent  of  Liberty,"  thus  alludes  to 
the  infant  loveliness  of  this  flower: 

**  Of  the  rose,  full-lipped  and  warm. 
Round  about  whose  riper  form 
Her  slender  virgin  train  are  seen 
In  their  close-fit  caps  of  green." 


44  "The  Rose. 


And  again,  to 


'  Tlie  sheath-enfolded  fans  of  rosy  bushes, 
Ready  against  their  blushes." 


Spenser  has  bequeathed  us  a  very  fehcitous  stanza  about  the 
budding  rose: 

* '  Ah !  see  the  virgin  rose,  how  sweetly  she 
Doth  first  peep  forth  with  bashful  modesty, 

That  fairer  seems  the  less  ye  see  her  may  ! 
Lo !  see  soon  after  how,  more  bold  and  free, 
Her  bared  bosom  she  doth  broad  display ! 
Lo  !  see  soon  after  how  she  fades  and  falls  away!" 

Sir  Walter  Scott  tells  us  that 

"  The  rose  is  fairest  when  't  is  budding  new, 

And  hope  is  brightest  when  it  dawns  from  fears ; 
The  rose  is  sweetest  washed  with  morning  dew, 
And  love  is  loveliest  when  embalmed  with  tears. " 

But  of  all  the  beautiful  things  said  about  this  most  beautiful 
of  Flora's  children,  the  most  delicate  and  the  most  apposite 
appears  to  us  to  be  "  The  Dying  Rose-bud's  Lament,"  by  a 
transatlantic  poetess,  the  late  Mrs.  Osgood. 

' '  Ah,  me  !  ah,  woe  is  me !  ' '  How  oft,  while  yet  an  infant  flower, 

That  I  should  perish  now.  My  crimson  cheek  I  've  laid 

With  the  dear  sunlight  just  let  in  Against  the  green  bars  of  my  bower. 

Upon  my  balmy  brow.  Impatient  of  the  shade  ; 

"  My  leaves,  instinct  with  glowing  life,  "  And  pressing  up  and  peeping  through 

Were  quivering  to  unclose ;  Its  small  but  precious  vistas, 

My  happy  heart  with  love  was  rife —  Sighed  for  the  lovely  light  and  dew 

I  was  almost  a  rose.  That  blessed  my  elder  sisters. 

**  Nerved  by  a  hope,  rich,  warm,  intense,  "  I  saw  the  sweet  breeze  rippling  o'er 

Already  I  had  risen  Their  leaves  that  loved  the  play, 

Above  my  cage's  curving  fence.  Though  the  light  thief  stole  all  the  store 

My  green  and  graceful  prison.  Of  dew-drop  gems  away. 

"  My  pouting  lips,  by  Zephyr  pressed,  "  I  thought  how  happy  I  should  be 

Were  just  prepared  to  part,  Such  diamond  wreaths  to  wear. 

And  whispered  to  the  wooing  wind  And  frolic  with  a  rose's  glee 

The  rapture  of  my  heart.  With  sunbeam,  bird,  and  air. 

"In  new-bom  fancies  revelling,  "  Ah,  me  !  ah,  woe  is  me !  that  I, 

My  mossy  cell  half-riven.  Ere  yet  my  leaves  unclose, 

Each  thrilling  leaflet  seemed  a  wing  With  all  my  wealth  of  sweets,  must  die 

To  bear  me  into  heaven.  Before  I  am  a  rose !" 

It  scarcely  appears  possible  that  this  sweet,  suggestive  lay 
could  be  the  production  of  a  girl  only  fourteen  years  old,  yet 


The  Rose, 


45 


that  that  was  her  age  at  the  time  of  its  composition  poor  Edgar 
Poe,  an  intense  admirer  of  the  poetess,  assures  us.  The  fol- 
lowing chat  with  the  emblem  of  love  and  beauty,  by  Mrs. 
Sigourney,  another  American  poetess,  will  probably  read  coldly 
after  Frances  Osgood's  poem  : 

*'Most  glorious  rose, 
You  are  the  queenly  belle.     On  you  all  eyes 
Admiring  turn.     Doubtless  you  might  indite 
Romances  from  your  own  sweet  history — 
They  're  quite  the  fashion  now,  and  crowd  the  page 
Of  every  periodical.     Wilt  tell 
None  of  your  heart  adventures  ?     Never  mind ! 
We  plainly  read  the  Zephyr's  stolen  kiss 
In  your  deep  blush ;  so  where 's  the  use  to  seal 
Your  lips  so  cunningly,  when  all  the  world 
Calls  yon  the  flower  of  loi'e?" 

Yes!  all  the  world  knows  that  the  beautiful  rose  is  the  em- 
blem of  love  ;  but  none  alluded  to  the  fact  more  masterly  than 
did  "  Love's  own  minstrel,"  Anacreon,  and  in  these  verses  Leigh 
Hunt  has  ably  transmuted  the  glowing  words  of  the  glorious 
old  Tean  into  our  modest  English  tongue: 


"The  rose,  the  flower  of  love. 
Mingle  with  our  quaffing ; 
The  rose,  the  lovely  leaved. 
Round  our  broAvs  be  weaved. 
Genially  laughing. 


"  Oh,  the  rose,  the  first  of  flowers, 
Darling  of  the  early  bowers, 

E'en  the  gods  for  thee  have  places  j 
Thee,  too,  Cytherea's  boy 
Weaves  about  his  locks  for  joy. 
Dancing  with  the  Graces. 


But  the  short  life  of  this  august  flower  ofttimes  causes  it, 
when  fading,  to  be  deemed  a  suitable  representative  oi fleeting 
beauty,  and  many  are  the  "  morals  "  that  poet  and  philosopher 
have  deduced  from  this  stage;  but  there  is  also  another  record 
to  be  made,  and  that  is  of  its  fragrance  after  death :  the  flush 
of  beauty  may  be  gone  from  its  withered  petals,  but  the  scent 
of  the  rose  will  cling  to  it  still ;  and  so,  even  when  life  is  over, 
we  yet  place,  as  Barry  Cornwall  remarks, 

"  First  of  all,  the  rose;  because  its  breath 

Is  rich  beyond  the  rest ;  and  when  it  dies, 
It  doth  bequeath  a  charm  to  sweeten  death." 

Yes,  kind  friend  !  even  a  dead  rose — emblem  of  sweet  memories 
— "  doth  bequeath  a  charm  to  sweeten  death,"  because,  though 
"  pale,  and  hard,  and  dry  as  stubble-wheat,"  yet,  as  Elizabeth 
Barrett  Browning  tells  us, 


46  The  Rose. 

' '  The  heart  doth  recognize  tliee, 

Alone,  alone !  the  heart  doth  smell  thee  sweet, 

Doth  view  thee  fair,  doth  judge  thee  most  complete, 

Perceiving  all  those  changes  that  disguise  thee. 

Yes,  and  the  heart  doth  owe  thee 
More  love,  dead  rose,  than  to  any  roses  bold, 
Which  Julia  wears  at  dances,  smiling  cold  ! 

Lie  still  upon  this  heart,  which  breaks  below  thee ! " 

Of  all  the  poets  that  sing  the  praises  of  the  roses,  none  seem 
to  do  so  more  con  a?no7^e  than  Chaucer:  his  heroes  and  heroines 
are  invariably  garlanded  with  its  flowers,  as  are  his  songs 
scented  with  its  fragrance;  and  in  the  "  Romaunt  of  the  Rose" 
he  dowers  his  favourite  flowers  with  quite  a  poetical  apotheosis. 
How  well,  too,  does  he  describe  Venus  as  wearing  "  on  her  head 
her  rosy  garland,  white  and  red."  Of  roses  white  and  red 
Shakspeare's  self  does  say: 

**  The  roses  fearfully  on  thorns  did  stand. 
One  blushing  shame,  another  white  despair ; 
A  third,  nor  red  nor  white,  had  stolen  of  both." 

St.  Cecilia  was  said  to  have  received  a  miraculous  crown  of 
roses  from  heaven  ;  and  Tennyson  tells  how 

"Her  hair  wound  with  white  roses,  slept  St.  Cecily." 

To  step  from  sacred  to  profane,  how  prettily  has  Bowring 
translated  from  the  Russ  of  Kastrov,  this  evidence  of  the  frailty 
of  lovers'  vows : 

** The  rose  is  my  favourite  flower:  ** I  scarcely  the  record  had  made. 

On  its  tablets  of  crimson  I  swore  Ere  Zephyr,  in  frolicsome  play, 

That  up  to  my  last  living  hour  On  his  light  airy  pinions  conveyed 

I  never  would  think  of  thee  more.  Both  tablets  and  promise  away. " 

Miss  Kent,  in  "  Flora  Domestica,"  remarks  that  roses,  when 
they  are  associated  with  a  moral  meaning,  are  generally  identi- 
fied with  mere  pleasure  ;  but  some  writers,  with  a  juster  senti- 
ment, have  made  them  emblems  of  the  most  refined  virtue. 

In  the  "  Orlando  Innamorato,"  Orlando  puts  roses  in  his 
helmet,  which  guard  his  ears  against  a  Syren;  and  in  Apuleius' 
"  Golden  Ass,"  as  already  recorded,  Lucius,  who  had  been 
transformed  into  an  ass,  regains  his  human  shape  upon  eating 
some  of  these  flowers. 

The  red  rose,  which,  from  its  long  residence  amongst  us,  has 


The  Rose.  47 

been  named  the  English  rose,  is  thus  patriotically  spoken  of 
by  Browne : 

''Whence  she  upon  her  breast — (love's  sweet  repose) — 
Doth  bring  the  queen  of  flowers,  the  EngHsh  rose. " 

Human  life  is  compared  with  this  flower  by  Keble,  in  the 
^^  Christian  Year."    In  one  sweet  verse  he  bids  us 

"Let  the  dainty  rose  awhile, 

Her  bashful  fragrance  hide — 
Rend  not  her  silken  veil  too  soon. 
But  leave  her  in  her  own  sweet  noon, 

To  flourish  and  abide." 

Philip  Bailey,  author  of  "Festus,"  that  magnificent  store- 
house of  "  seed  poetry,"  as  our  present  Laureate  appropriately 
names  it,  says : 

*'  Love  is  like  a  rose. 
And  a  month  it  may  not  see 
Ere  it  withers  where  it  grows." 

We  would  give  love  and  beauty  longer  life,  but,  alas !  poli- 
tician as  well  as  poet  are  against  us ;  for  hear  what  Charles 
James  Fox  has  rhymed  about  their  emblem  bloom  : 

"  The  rose,  the  sweetly  blooming  rose,      "  But,  oh !  how  soon  its  sweets  are  gone, 
Ere  from  the  tree  't  is  torn.  How  soon  it  withering  lies ! 

Is  like  the  charms  which  beauty  shows      So,  when  the  eve  of  life  comes  on. 
In  life's  exulting  mom.  Sweet  beauty  fades  and  dies. 

"  Then  since  the  fairest  form  that 's  made 
Soon  withering  we  shall  find. 
Let  us  possess  what  ne'er  shall  fade — 
The  beauties  of  the  mind." 

There  is  a  highly  imaginative  stanza  in  "Alnwick  Castle," 
by  Halleck,  the  American  poet,  in  which  these  token-flowers 
are  suggestively  introduced : 

"Wild  roses  by  the  Abbey  towers 

Are  gay  in  their  young  bud  and  bloom — 
They  were  born  of  a  race  of  funeral  fioivcrSy 
That  garlanded,  in  long-gone  hours, 
A  Templar's  knightly  tomb." 

The  queen  of  flowers  has  had  many  wild  rhapsodies  poured 
forth  in  her  praise,  and  many  quaint  things  have  been  said  of 
her  powers  ;  but  surely  no  one  ever  equalled  the  marvellous 
Culpepper  in  ascribing  wonders  to  her  influence  ;  and  yet,  not- 


4S  The  Rose. 


withstanding  the  fact  that  he  endows  her  with  more  curative 
abihties  than  a  whole  college  of  physicians  would  dare  to  aspire 
to,  he  has  the  impudence  to  remark:  "What  a  pother  have 
authors  made  with  roses  !  what  a  racket  have  they  kept !  I 
shall  add,  that  the  red  roses  are  under  Jupiter,  damask  under 
Venus,  white  under  the  Moon,  and," — here  the  old  astrological 
doctor  attempts  probably  his  solitary  intentional  jest — "Pro- 
vence under  the  King  of  France." 

This  last-named  and  extraordinary  fragrant  rose  does  not 
take  its  name  from  Provence,  as  is  generally  supposed,  but 
from  Provins,  a  small  town  about  fifty  miles  from  Paris,  where 
it  was  formerly  much  cultivated. 

But  the  lineage,  legends,  and  symbolic  associations  of  the 
rose  are  an  inexhaustible  theme ;    every  poet  has  hymned, 
and  every  minstrel  sung,  the  praises  of  this  floral  queen,  and 
nothing  now  remains  to  tell,  save  these  lines  of  Mrs.  Hemans^,, 
in  which  all  the  flower's  endowments  are  found  combined 

*'  How  much  of  memory  dwells  amidst  thy  bloom, 
Rose !  ever  wearing  beauty  for  thy  dower ! 
The  bridal  day — the  festival — the  tomb — 

Thou  hast  thy  part  in  each,  thou  stateliest  flovrer ! 

"Therefore,  with  thy  soft  breath  come  floating  by 
A  thousand  images  of  love  and  grief; 
Dreams,  filled  with  tokens  of  mortality, 

Deep  thoughts  of  all  things  beautiful  and  brief. 

*'Not  such  thy  spells  o'er  those  that  hailed  thee  first 
In  the  clear  light  of  Eden's  golden  day; 
There  thy  rich  leaves  to  crimson  glory  burst, 
Linked  Vv'ith,no  dim  remembrance  of  decay. 

**  Rose !  for  the  banquet  gathered,  and  the  bier; 
Rose !  coloured  now  by  human  hope  or  pain ; 
Surely,  where  death  is  not,  nor  change,  nor  fear, 
Yet  we  may  meet  thee,  joy's  own  flower,  again!" 


^'^'^^^mmm^ 


^m^Wf^^^ 


^^A>1. — ^c> 


Hawthorn.. 

(HOPE.) 

IF  the  rose  is  the  favourite  of  poets  of  all  nations,  this 
delicious  emblem  of  life-long  /wpe  is  the  especial  darling 
of  British  bards ;  and,  although  there  is  not  a  country  in  all 
Europe  where  the  common  Hawthorn  does  not  display  its 
scented  snowy  blossom,  it  is  to  the  English  anthology  that 
the  florigraphists  must  refer  for  full  and  frequent  descriptions 
of  its  beauties  and  associations.  From  the  days  of  dear  old 
Chaucer  downwards  has  this  chosen  bride  of  May  ever  been 
belauded  by  our  poets  and  beloved  by  our  people. 

By  the  Greeks,  Evelyn  tells  us,  the  hawthorn  was  deemed 
one  of  the  fortunate  trees  :  they  accounted  it  a  symbol  of  the 
conjugal  union  since  the  jovial  shepherds  carried  it  at  the  rape  of 
the  Sabines,  ever  after  considering  it  propitious.  Its  flowering 
branches  were  borne  aloft  at  their  marriage  celebrations,  and 
the  newly-wedded  pair  were  even  lighted  to  the  nuptial  cham- 
ber Vv'ith  torches  of  its  wood.  Lavish,  indeed,  were  the  floral 
decorations  of  a  Hellenic  bridal ;  for  that  clear-headed  nation 
fully  sympathized  with  such  feelings  as  Charlotte  Smith  ex- 
presses when  she  hopes  that 

"Still  may  fancy's  brightest  flowers  be  wove 
Round  the  gold  chains  of  hymeneal  love." 

This  flower-loving  folk  still  garland  their  brides  with  haw- 
thorn wreaths,  and  strew  the  marriage  altar  with  its  bloomy 
treasures. 

In  the  "  Odyssey,"  Homer  represents  Ulysses,  on  his  return 
to  his  native  land,  finding  old  Laertes,  his  father,  seated  in  his 
garden  alone,  having  sent  his  men 

' '  To  search  the  woods  for  sets  of  flowery  thorn, 
Their  orchards'  bounds  to  strengthen  and  adorn." 

The  Turks  regard  the  presentation  of  a  branch  ol  hawthorn 

4 


50 


The  Hawthorn. 


as  denoting  the  donor  s  desire  to  receive  from  the  object  of  his 
affection  that  token  of  love  denominated  a  kiss. 

In  France,  the  hawthorn,  amongst  other  suggestive  titles,  is 
generally  designated  UEpine  noble,  from  the  belief  that  it 
furnished  the  crown  of  thorns  which  was  placed  upon  the 
Saviour's  head  previous  to  His  crucifixion. 

Singular  to  relate,  unlike  those  of  the  roses,  the  thorns  from 
which  this  bush  receives  its  common  appellation,  are  often  made 
to  disappear  under  the  effects  of  cultivation. 

Ronsard — sometimes  styled  the  French  Chaucer — wrote  a 
beautiful  address  to  the  hawthorn,  thus  faithfully  rendered : 


*'  Fair  hawthorn  flowering, 
With  green  shade  bowering 

Along  this  lovely  shade ; 
To  thy  foot  around 
With  his  long  arms  wound 

A  wild  vine  has  mantled  thee  o'er. 

*'  In  armies  twain, 

Red  ants  have  ta'en 
Their  fortress  beneath  thy  stock ; 

And  in  clefts  of  thy  trunlc 

Tiny  bees  have  sunk 
A  cell  where  honey  they  lock. 


"  In  merry  Spring-tide, 

When  to  woo  his  bride 

The  nightingale  comes  again, 

Thy  boughs  among 

He  warbles  his  song, 

That  lightens  a  lover's  pain. 

***** 
*' Gentle  hawthorn,  thrive, 
And,  for  ever  alive, 
May'st  thou  blossom  as  now  in  thy  prime  \ 
By  the  wind  unbroke. 
And  the  thunder-stroke. 
Unspoiled  by  the  axe  of  time." 

Having  heard  what  has  been  said  of  this  shrub  by  the 
French,  let  us  hear  what  our  own  dear  old  English  Chaucer 
has  to  say  about  it.  In  his  quaint,  antique  phraseology  he 
frequently  alludes  to  its  beauties;  thus,  in  his  "  Court  of  Love," 
does  he  tell  how 

"Furth  goth  all  the  Courte,  both  most  and  lest, 
To  fetche  the  flouris  freshe,  and  braunche  and  blome, 
And  namely  hauthome  brought  both  page  and  grome, 
With  freshe  garlandis  partly  blew  and  white, 
And  than  rejoisin  in  their  grete  delight." 

Then  he  still  more  sweetly  sings  : 

**  Amongst  the  many  buds  proclaiming  May 
(Decking  the  meads  in  holiday  array, 
Striving  who  shall  surpass  in  bravery) 
Mark  the  fair  blooming  of  the  hawthorn  tree ; 
Who,  finely  clothed  in  a  robe  of  white, 
Feeds  full  the  wanton  eye  with  May's  delight; 
Yet  for  the  bravery  that  she  is  in 
Doth  neither  handle  card  nor  wheel  to  spin, 
Nor  changeth  robes  but  twice  ;  is  never  seen 
In  other  colours  than  in  white  or  green. 


The  Hawthorn.  c;i 


Learn  then,  content,  young  shepherd,  from  this  tree, 
Whose  greatest  wealth  is  Nature's  hvery." 

The  scent  of  the  hawthorn  is  proverbially  sweet ;  and  this 
same  Dan  Chaucer,  in  his  ''  Complaint  of  the  Black  Knight/' 
remarks : 

"  There  sawe  I  growing  eke  the  freshe  hauthome, 
In  white  motley,  that  so  iote  doeth  ysmell." 

In  the  olden  days  our  jolly  forefathers  made  great  use  of 
this  aromatic-smelling  tree,  which  then,  as  now,  was  more 
commonly  known  by  its  favourite  name  of  "May,"  from  its 
flowering  in  that  month.  May,  the  queen  of  blossoms,  was 
greeted  on  her  arrival  with  all  the  royal  rejoicings  that  her 
incoming  deserved,  and  few,  from  sovereign  down  to  poorest 
peasant,  but  strove  their  best  to  pay  her  due  honour.  May 
was  kept  universally,  and,  it  is  said,  even  the  avenues  of  the 
metropolis  looked  like  bowers,  from  the  boughs  which  each 
man  hung  over  his  doorway.  The  young  people  of  both  sexes 
went  a-Maying,  accompanied  by  bands  of  music  ;  people  of 
all  ranks  joined  in  the  pastimes,  from  Bluff  King  Hal,  who 
rode  a-Maying  from  Greenwich  to  Shooters'  Hill,  with  Queen 
Katharine  and  his  merry  Court ;  indeed,  ''  every  man,  except 
impediment,"  as  old  Stowe  quaintly  remarks,  "would  walk 
into  the  sweet  meadows  and  green  woods,  there  to  rejoice 
their  spirits  with  the  beauty  and  savour  of  sweet  flowers,  and 
with  the  harmony  of  birds  praising  God  in  their  kind."  No 
Oriental  Feast  of  Roses  was  more  sacredly  observed  or  carried 
out  with  greater  glee  than  was  the  old  English  custom  of  May- 
ing. Houses  and  churches  were  as  habitually  decked  on  May- 
day with  the  blossom  of  the  hawthorn,  as  they  were  at  Christ- 
mas with  holly ;  and,  as  Spenser  tells  us  in  his  "  Shepherd's 
Calendar,"  would 

Youth's  folk  now  flocken  everyivhere, 
To  gather  May-baskets  and  smelling  breere  ; 
And  home  they  hasten  the  posts  to  dight, 
And  all  the  kirk-pillars  ere  daylight, 
"With  hawthom-buds,  and  sweet  eglantine, 
And  garlands  of  roses,  and  sops-in-wine." 

Herrick,  in  his  "  Hesperides,"  has  a  beautiful  idyll  descrip- 
tive of  the  manner  in  which  they  went  a-Maying  in  his  days ; 
and  in  it  he  thus  invokes  his  mistress : 

4—3 


K2  The  Hawthorn. 


*'Each  flower  has  wept  and  bow'd  toward  the  east, 
Above  an  hour  since,  yet  you  are  not  dress'd — 

Nay,  not  so  much  as  out  of  bed, 

When  all  the  birds  have  matins  said, 

And  sung  their  thankful  hymns ;  't  is  sin. 

Nay,  profanation,  to  keep  in ; 
Whereas  a  thousand  virgins  on  this  day 
Spring  sooner  than  the  lark  to  fetch  in  May. 
****** 

**  Come,  my  Corinna !  come,  and  coming,  mark 
How  each  field  turns  a  street — each  street  a  park, 

Made  green,  and  trimm'd  with  trees !  see  how 

Devotion  gives  each  house  a  bough 

Or  branch ! — each  porch,  each  door,  ere  this 

An  ark,  a  tabernacle  is. 
Made  up  of  whitethorn  neatly  interwove, 
As  if  here  were  those  cooler  shades  of  love. 

Can  such  delights  be  in  the  street 

And  open  fields,  and  we  not  see 't? 

Come,  we  '11  abroad,  and  let 's  obey 

The  proclamation  made  for  May, 
And  sin  no  more,  as  we  have  done,  by  staying. 
But,  my  Corinna !  come,  let 's  go  a-Maying. 

**  There 's  not  a  budding  boy  or  girl,  this  day, 
But  is  got  up  and  gone  to  bring  in  May ; 

A  deal  of  youth,  ere  this,  is  come 

Back,  and  with  whitethorn  laden  home ; 

Some  have  dispatched  their  cakes  and  cream 

Before  that  we  have  left  to  dream ; 
And  some  have  wept  and  woo'd  and  plighted  troth, 
And  chose  their  priest  ere  we  can  cast  off  sloth : 

Many  a  green  gown  has  been  given. 

Many  a  kiss,  both  odd  and  even ; 

Many  a  glance,  too,  has  been  sent 

From  out  the  eye,  love's  firmament ; 
Many  a  jest  told  of  the  key's  betraying 
This  night,  and  locks  picked ;  yet  we  're  not  a-Maying. 

**  Come !  let  us  go  while  we  are  in  our  prime, 
And  take  the  harmless  folly  of  the  time." 

In  these  lines  of  the  old  Royalist  parson-poet  there  is  much 
that  will  appear  obscure  to  many  of  the  present  generation, 
but  by  contemporaries  all  his  allusions  were  comprehended 
and  admired.  These  May-day  morning  practices  are  generally 
supposed  to  have  been  the  lingering  remains  of  the  rites  insti- 
tuted by  the  ancients  in  honour  of  Flora,  to  whom  the  last  four 
days  of  May  were  dedicated.  The  alteration  in  the  calendar, 
by  throwing  this  innocent  festival  back  twelve  days,  soon  obli- 
terated what  fragments  of  it  time  had  spared,  because,  when 


2 HE  Hawthorn.  53 


May-day  now  arrives,  the  weather  is  mostly  too  inclement  for 
outdoor  sports.  Many  an  old  villager  may  yet  be  found 
lamenting  the  difference  between  the  May-days  of  his  youth 
and  those  of  to-day :  in  some  out-of-the-way  rural  districts, 
many  years  elapsed  before  folks  submitted  ''  to  lose  twelve 
days  out  of  their  lives,"  as  they  deemed  it. 

In  country  places  it  was  formerly  the  custom  for  lads  and 
lasses  to  get  up  soon  after  midnight,  and,  accompanied  by 
such  music  as  the  village  afforded,  to  walk  in  a  body  to  some 
neighbouring  wood ;  there  they  gathered  as  many  branches 
and  nosegays  of  flowers  as  they  could  carry,  and  then  returned 
home  about  sunrise  in  joyous  procession,  garlanded  with  flowers, 
and  laden  with  blossomy  boughs,  with  which  to  decorate  the 
doors  and  windows.  Shakspeare  did  not  fail  to  note  the  eager- 
ness with  which  May-day  pastimes  were  looked  forward  to  and 
indulged  in  in  his  days,  and  remarks : 

'"T  is  as  much  impossible, 
Unless  we  swept  them  from  the  door  with  cannons, 
To  scatter  'em,  as  't  is  to  make  'em  sleep 
On  May-day  morning." 

It  has  been  seen  how  beautifully  Herrick  conjured  his  ladye- 
love  to  go  a-Maying ;  and  perhaps  this  more  modern,  though 
less  worthy,  invocation  may  be  used  here — not  so  much  for  its 
value  as  for  its  appropriateness  : 

■**  Oh,  we  will  go  a-Maying,  love,  And  cowslips  slim,  'mid  leafy  green, 

A-Maying  we  will  go,  Rise  in  the  unmown  meads. 

Beneath  the  branches  swaying,  love,  And  buttercups  are  weighing,  love, 

With  weight  of  scented  snow.  The  gold  they  soon  must  strow — 

Laburnums'  golden  tresses,  love,  Where  we  will  go  a-Maying,  love, 

Float  in  the  perfumed  air ;  Where  we  will  Maying  go. 
Which  heedless  their  caresses,  love, 

Seeks  violets  in  their  lair ;  "  The  hawthorn's  bloom  is  falling,  love, 

And  with  their  scents  a-playing,  love,  We  must  no  longer  wait ; 

It  gambols  to  and  fro —        "  Each  bird  is  blithely  calling,  love. 

Where  we  will  go  a-Maying,  love,  Unto  his  chosen  mate ; 

Where  we  will  Maying  go.  Eacli  bud  unblown  is  swelling,  love, 

Green  grow  the  vernal  fields ; 

**The  bees  are  busy  humming,  love,  Each  insect  leaves  its  dwelling,  lo\'c, 

Amid  the  opening  blooms,  And  all  to  Summer  yields : 

Foretelling  Summer 's  coming,  love —  The  mowers  are  out  haying,  love, 

Farewell  to  wintry  glooms.  Woodbine  is  in  full  blow — 

The  primrose  pale,  from  crinkly  sheen,  Where  we  will  go  a-Maying,  love, 

Up  from  the  ground  now  speeds;  Where  we  will  Maying  go." 


John  Ingram. 


54  The  Hawthorn. 


These  pleasant  diversions  were  not  altogether  confined  to 
the  country,  however,  for,  in  those  olden  days,  not  a  town,  not 
a  city,  not  excepting  the  metropolis  itself,  but  boasted  of  its 
Maypole.  In  London  these  Maypoles  abounded,  and  the  last 
of  them,  which  stood  in  the  Strand,  near  Somerset  House, 
was  not  removed  until  i/i/.  The  early  part  of  May-day  was. 
spent  in  decorating  these  poles  with  garlanded  hoops,  with 
ribbons,  and  with  the  flowers  that  had  been  gathered  in  the 
early  morn.  When  all  was  ready  and  a  grassy  mound  erected,, 
some  fair  maiden  was  elected  Queen  of  the  May,  was  crowned, 
with  flowers,  and,  with  many  other  ceremonies  equally  pleasant, 
and  innocent,  was  inducted  into  transient  village  royalty. 

The  following  lines,  entitled  "  The  Village  Queen,"  refer  tO' 
this  pretty  pastoral  custom,  now  unfortunately  almost  obsolete,, 
except  in  very  secluded  districts  : 

*' Begun  to  fall  had  hawthorn's  snow 

In  scented  showers  upon  the  ground, 
And  almond  blossoms  now  did  strow 

Their  pinky  petals  all  around  ; 
Her  wavy  hair  the  birch  did  fling 

Out  to  the  May- wind's  warm  caress ; 
From  ev'ry  bough  the  birds  did  sing 

Of  Spring-tide  in  her  vernal  dress. 

"  So,  tempted  by  the  cloudless  sky, 

I  through  the  village  took  a  stroll, 
To  where  I  saw  hoisted  on  high, 

With  garlands  deck'd,  a  gay  Maypole. 
Upon  the  grass  a  merry  group 

Of  boys  and  girls  were  dancing  seen ; 
And  as  before  the  pole  they  'd  troop, 

They  bow'd  to  one  they  called  the  Queen. 

**  Of  gauzy  white  her  simple  dress, 

Which  they  with  garlands  had  enwound, 
And  on  her  youthful  brow  did  press 

The  wreath  with  which  they  her  had  crown'd, 
I  gazed  upon  the  fragile  child 

Who  sat  enthroned  upon  the  green, 
And  watched  her  whilst  she  sweetly  smil'd 

On  those  who  claimed  her  for  their  Queen. 

'*  The  roses  in  her  cheeks  were  few ; 

Her  little  arms  were  wan  and  thin. 
And  violet  veins  did  much  peer  thro' 

The  lily  whiteness  of  her  skin. 
This  little  lass  I  knew  full  well 

As  only  daughter  of  our  Dean ; 


The  Hawthorn. 


55 


As  tender  as  the  cowslip's  bell — 
Most  worthy  she  to  be  their  Queen. 

*'  There  was  a  little  lad  I  spied, 

Whose  cheeks  were  red  with  ruddy  health  ; 
He  stood  sedately  by  her  side, 

But  every  now  and  then,  by  stealth 
Would  whisper  something  in  her  ear, 

To  flush  her  face,  so  else  serene, 
And  then  draw  back  with  bashful  fear 

That  he  'd  annoy'd  the  Village  Queen. 

*■'  It  was  a  happy  sight  to  see — 

Each  brow  as  sunny  as  the  sky. 
Till  eve  I  joined  their  jubilee, 

And  then  I  left  them  with  a  sigh  ; 
Then  homeward.    When  they  all  were  gone, 

One  youthful  pair  I  walked  between ; 
We  parted  on  the  emerald  lawn 

Before  the  house  of  our  good  Dean. 

***** 

' '  The  Autumn  woods  were  burning  brown, 

The  Autumn  leaves  were  growing  sere, 
The  beechen  nuts  were  falling  down 

Upon  the  roadsides,  dank  and  drear; 
The  maple  boughs  were  baring  fast ; 

No  com  was  in  the  fields  to  glean ; 
I  strode  along — young  Henry  past, 

And  I  asked  of  the  Village  Queen. 

*'  No  word  he  spoke,  but  took  my  hand, 

And  drew  me  on  in  silent  gloom, 
Until  together  we  did  stand 

In  the  churchvard  before  a  tomb ; 
Upon  the  stone  I  sadly  read 

These  simple  words,  *  Our  Adeline  ' ; 
With  choking  voice  then  Henry  said, 

'  There  sleeps  our  darling  Village  Queen. ' " 

John  Ingram. 

Rare,  indeed,  are  now  these  pleasant  welcomlngs  —  these 
pretty  rustic  customs,  though  yet  the  May-bough  is  hung  over 
some  houses  in  Hertfordshire,  and  the  Maypole  lingers  still 
on  the  village  greens  of  Wales.  The  remains  of  the  old  prac- 
tices are,  however,  in  most  places  confined  to  the  small  chap- 
let  of  cowslips  and  bluebells  which  are  borne  by  little  timid 
country  girls  or  rosy  urchins,  whose  young  voices  salute  one 
with  "  Please  remember  the  May." 

In  a  few  rural  spots  of  our  country  a  May-day  Queen  is 


56  The  Hav/thorn. 


chosen  and  crowned  with  flowers,  and  the  day  kept  as  a  holi- 
day ;  but  this  is  only  in  remote  villages,  which  old  customs 
still  haunt.  In  some  parts  of  Cornwall,  May-day  sports  are 
continued  in  almost  their  primitive  fashion  :  the  day  is  de- 
voted to  out-of-doors  enjoyment;  and  at  Helston  the  youths 
and  maidens  cover  themselves  with  the  snowy  wreaths  of  spring, 
and,  preceded  by  the  Queen  of  the  May,  dance  merrily  through 
the  houses,  scattering  flowers  about  them. 

Tennyson,  in  his  "  May  Queen  " — that  beautiful  poem  which 
is  said  to  have  gained  him  the  Laureateship  —  has  immor- 
talized the  memory  of  this  fastly-fading  custom.  A  favourite 
native  singer,  whose  immense  popularity  might  justly  entitle 
her  to  claim  the  appellation  of  "  The  Peoples'  Laureate,"  has 
given  her  country  these  melodious,  stirring  lines  on  the  "Raising 
of  the  Maypole  "  : 

*' My  own  land !  my  own  land !  where  freedom  finds  her  throne-land; 
Fair  thou  art,  and  rare  thou  art,  to  every  true-bom  son. 
Though  no  gold  ore  veins  thee,  though  no  grape-juice  stains  thee, 

We  've  harvest  fields,  and  quartered  shields,  well  kept  and  nobly  wca. 
And  we  have  pleasant  tales  to  tell, 
And  spot  in  many  a  native  dell, 
Which  we  may  prize  and  love  as  well 

As  Troubadour  his  story. 
The  lilting  troll  and  roundelay 
Will  never,  never  pass  away, 
That  welcomed  in  the  herald  day 

Of  Summer's  rosy  glory. 
And  goodly  sight  of  mirth  and  might. 
In  blood  that  gained  us  Cressy's  fight. 
Was  hearts  and  eyes,  all  warm  and  bright 
About  the  high  and  gay  pole; 
When  flower  bedight,  'mid  leaves  and  light, 
Shouts  echoed — as  it  reared  upright — 

Of  '  Hurrah  for  merry  England,  and  the  raising  of  the  Maypole  X 
When  the  good  old  times  had  carol  rhymes, 
With  morris  games  and  village  chimes ; 
When  clown  and  priest  shared  cup  and  feast, 
And  the  greatest  jostled  with  the  least, 
At  the  '  raising  of  the  Maypole ! ' 

*'  My  brave  land !  my  brave  land !  oh  !  may'st  thou  be  my  grave-land ; 
For  firm  and  fond  will  be  the  bond  that  ties  my  heart  to  thee. 
When  Summer's  beams  are  glowing,  when  Autumn's  gusts  are  blowing, 
When  Winter's  clouds  are  snowing,  thou  art  still  right  dear  to  me. 
But  yet,  methinks,  I  love  thee  best 
When  bees  are  nurst  on  whitethorn  breast, 
When  Spring-tide  pours  in,  sweet  and  blest, 
And  joy  and  hope  come  dancing ! 


The  Hawthorn.  57 


When  music  from  the  feathered  throng 

Breaks  forth  in  merry  marriage  song, 

And  mountain  streamlets  dash  along, 
Like  molten  diamonds  glancing ! 

Oh !  pleasant 't  is  to  scan  the  page, 

Rich  with  the  theme  of  bygone  age. 

When  motley  fool  and  learned  sage 
Bi'ought  garlands  for  the  gay  pole ; 
When  laugh  and  shout  came  ringing  out 
From  courtly  knight  and  peasant  lout, 

In  '  Hurrah  for  merry  England,  and  the  raising  of  the  Maypole !' 
When  the  good  old  times  had  carol  rhymes. 
With  morris  games  and  village  chimes ; 
When  clown  and  priest  shared  cup  and  feast, 
And  the  greatest  jostled  with  the  least, 

At  the  '  raising  of  the  Maypole !'  "  Eliza  Cook. 

This  fragrant  favourite  of  English  poets  is  well  worthy  of  its 
reputation :  its  beauty  and  perfume  are  alike  unsurpassed  by 
any  of  earth's  "  gemmy  flowers,"  as  Poe  calls  her  floral  decora- 
tions ;  and  truly  we  may  style  it  the  loveliest  flower  of  the 
loveliest  month — it  is,  indeed,  the  scented  diadem  of  the  year. 
Well  may  Shakspeare  make  Henry  VI.  ask  : 

*' Gives  not  the  hawthorn -bush  a  sweeter  shade 
To  shepherds,  looking  on  their  silly  sheep, 
Than  doth  a  rich  embroidered  canopy 
To  kings?" 

Milton  has  also  remarked  the  adaptability  of  this  bush  for 
sheltering  shepherds : 

*' And  every  shepherd  tells  his  tale 
Under  the  hawthorn  in  the  dale. " 

And  then  comes  Goldsmith  to  speak  of  other  tales  told 
beneath  its  shade  ;  for,  whereas  the  author  of  ''  L' Allegro " 
only  intends  to  represent  his  shepherd  as  counting  his  sheep, 
the  author  of  the  "  Deserted  Village  "  talks  of  fonder  themes : 

"The  hawthorn-bush,  with  seats  beneath  the  shade. 
For  talking  age  and  whispering  lovers  made ! 
How  often  have  I  blessed  the  coming  day, 
When  toil  remitting  lent  its  turn  to  play. 
And  all  the  village  train,  from  labour  free. 
Led  up  their  sports  beneath  the  spreading  tree, 
While  many  a  pastime  circled  in  the  shade. 
The  young  contending,  as  the  old  sui-veyed." 

How  longingly  we  await  the  unfolding  of  the  May-blossom 


c;8  The  Hawthorn. 


— summer's  scented  harbinger!  how  tenderly  both  young  and 
old  watch  its  growth,  from  when,  in  the  beginning  of  April, 

**  Fringing  the  forest's  devious  edge, 
Half-robed,  appears  the  hawthorn  hedge  ; 
Or  to  the  distant  eye  displays 
Weakly  green  its  budding  sprays ; 

next,  with  what  delight  do  all  observe  that 

"The  hawthorn  every  day 
Spreads  some  little  show  of  May;" 

and  then  what  a  warmth  of  summer  happiness  seems  to  flood 
all  hearts !  when,  no  longer  doubtingly,  we  dare  exclaim  with 
Warton : 

"'Tis  May,  the  Grace — confess'd  she  stands. 
With  branch  of  hawthorn  in  her  hands ; 
Lo !  near  her  trip  the  lightsome  dews, 
Their  wings  all  ting'd  in  Iris'  hues ; 
With  whom  the  powers  of  Flora  play, 
And  paint  with  pansies  all  the  way." 

How  exquisitely,  and  with  what  an  under-current  of  pathos, 
has  MacCarthy  portrayed  these  summer  longings !  how  much 
is  suggested  that  words  have  left  unsaid  !  List  how  one  of  the 
sweetest  melodies  of  the  century  begins : 

*' Ah !  my  heart  is  weary,  waiting — 

Waiting  for  the  May  : 
Waiting  for  the  pleasant  rambles 
Where  the  fragrant  hawthorn  brambles, 
With  tlie  woodbine  alternating, 

Scent  the  dewy  way. 
Ah !  my  heart  is  weary,  waiting — 

Waiting  for  the  May ! " 

The  common  colour  of  these  delicate  blossoms  is  white, 
frequently  blushed  with  pink  ;  but  there  is  a  garden  variety 
with  double  flowers  of  a  deep  red.  Poets  constantly  allude  to 
the  petals  of  the  bloom  as  summer  snow,  or  as  scented  snow, 
because  of  the  manner  in  which  the  wind  often  scatters  com- 
plete clouds  of  them  over  the  pathways  and  about  the  road- 
sides, and  also  because  of  their  fleecy,  snow-like  look  amid 
surrounding  green  hedges. 

"Between  the  leaves,  the  silver  whitethorn  shows 
Its  dewy  blossoms,  pure  as  mountain  snows. " 


The  Hawthorn. 


59 


Long  after  its  fleecy  flowers  have  faded,  the  hawthorn  remains 
one  of  our  most  ornamental  shrubs,  for  its  glossy  green  leaves 
and  bright  scarlet  berries  form  a  very  pretty  picture,  besides 
providing  shelter  for  some  of  our  most  melodious  songsters  : 
these  little  warblers  find  an  abundant  supply  of  food  in  the 
haws,  as  the  berries  are  called.  Lord  Bacon,  in  his  "  Essays," 
observes  that  "  a  store  of  haws  portend  cold  winters,"  and  the 
allegation  is  believed  to  be  correct.  The  yellow-berried  haw- 
thorn is  familiarly  called  the  golden  thorn,  because  its  fruit  is 
golden-hued,  and  its  young  buds  are  of  a  bright  yellow.  The 
Mexican  thorn  is  said  to  have  large  yellow  fruit,  which  might 
rival  the  golden  apples  of  the  Hesperides  in  appearance.  To 
the  wintry  adornments  of  this  bush  Phillips  prettily  alludes : 

"Long  pearls  and  rubies  rich  the  hawthorns  show, 
"While  through  the  ice  the  crimson  berries  glow." 

The  whitethorn  has  been  revered  as  a  sacred  tree  from  the 
earliest  ages.  Mr.  Charles  Hardwick,  in  a  very  interesting 
paper  on  the  "Customs  of  Christmas  and  Yule-tide,"  alludes  at 
some  length  to  the  presumed  sanctity  of  this  tree,  and  quotes 
these  remarks  of  a  writer  in  the  "  Quarterly  Review,"  on 
'* Sacred  Trees  and  Flowers."  "The  whitethorn,"  he  says,  "is 
one  of  the  trees  most  in  favour  with  the  fairies ;  and,  both  in 
Brittany  and  in  some  parts  of  Ireland,  it  is  held  unsafe  to 
gather  even  a  leaf  from  certain  old  and  solitary  thorns  which 
grow  in  sheltered  hollows  of  the  moorland,  and  are  the  fairies' 
trysting-places.  But  no  evil  ghost  dares  to  approach  the  white- 
thorn." This  same  writer  presumes  that  the  legendary  sanctity 
of  this  tree  arose  from  the  belief  that  the  crown  of  thorn  with 
which  Christ  was  crowned  was  made  from  its  branches ;  but 
Mr.  Hardwick  gives  ample  proof  of  its  having  been  held  in  re- 
ligious esteem  long  prior  to  the  existence  of  Christianity.  Sir 
John  Maundeville,  the  brave  old  English  traveller,  thus  gives 
the  tradition  referred  to :  "  Then  was  our  Lord  led  into  a 
garden  ....  and  the  Jews  scorned  Him,  and  made  Him  a 
crown  of  the  branches  oiXh^Aitbepine,  that  is,  whitethorn,  which 
grew  in  the  same  garden,  and  set  it  on  His  head.  .  And  there- 
fore hath  the  whitethorn  many  virtues.  For  he  that  beareth 
a  branch  on  him  thereof,  no  thunder,  or  manner  of  tempest, 
may  hurt  him ;  and  in  the  house  that  it  is  in  may  no  evil 
ghost  enter." 


6o  The  Hawthorn. 


In  fables,  too  ancient  to  fix  their  origin,  this  tree  is  said  to 
have  sprung  from  the  Hghtning.  The  celebrated  "  Glastonbury 
Thorn,"  which  was  a  variety  of  the  common  hawthorn,  instead 
of  blooming  in  May,  blossomed  in  winter,  and  was  .  firmly 
believed  to  blow  regularly  on  Christmas-day.  The  original 
bush  was  said  to  have  been  the  staff  of  St.  Joseph  of  Arimathea 
—  popularly  supposed  to  have  been  the  founder  of  the  first 
Christian  church  in  England.  On  his  arrival  at  Glastonbury 
with  a  few  companions  (so  runs  the  old  legend),  he  determined 
to  settle  there,  and,  as  a  proof  of  the  divinity  of  his  mission, 
he  struck  his  dry  hawthorn  staff  into  the  ground,  and  imme- 
diately it  put  forth  branches  and  blossomed.  This  happened 
on  Christmas-day ;  and  ever  afterwards,  on  the  anniversary  of 
the  miracle,  the  tree,  despite  the  coldness  of  the  season,  put 
forth  flowers,  until  the  Puritans  cut  it  down.  This  did  not, 
however,  eradicate  the  superstition  ;  for  a  stock  derived,  or  said 
to  be  derived,  from  the  original,  was  planted  in  the  neighbour- 
hood, and  by  many  country  folks  is  still  steadfastly  asserted 
to  bloom  on  Twelfth-day — the  old-style  Christmas-day — as  a 
protest  against  the  alteration  of  the  calendar. 

The  flowers  of  this  wonderful  thorn  were  formerly  exported 
as  valuable  relics  ;  and  in  CoUinson's  "  History  of  Somerset- 
shire "  it  is  stated  that  this  tree  was  much  sought  after  by  the 
credulous  ;  and,  though  a  common  thorn.  Queen  Anne,  King 
James,  and  many  of  the  nobility  of  the  realm — even  when  the 
times  of  monkish  superstition  had  ceased — gave  large  sums  of 
money  for  small  cuttings  from  the  original. 

The  progeny  of  this  supernatural  plant  are  said  to  retain  the 
miraculous  propensity  ;  and  Mr.  Wilkinson,  of  Burnley,  speak- 
ing of  some  of  the  wonderful  trees  still  existing  in  Lancashire, 
says  that  in  his  vicinity  many  persons  will  yet  travel  a  con- 
siderable distance  in  order  to  witness  the  periodic  blossoming. 

Miss  Pratt  tells  of  a  hawthorn  in  the  Arboretum  of  Kew 
Gardens  which  "  is  often  covered  with  its  white  clusters  while 
the  snow  surrounds  it." 

Credulous  as  old  Culpepper  was,  he  refused  to  believe  in  so 
Papistical  a  legend,  ''since,"  he  remarks,  "the  like  may  be  found 
in  divers  other  places  of  this  land."  He  did  not  hesitate, 
however,  to  assign  many  marvellous  powers  to  the  hawthorn, 
gravely  asserting  that,  "■  if  cloths  and  sponges  be  wet  in  the  dis- 


The  Hawthorn. 


OJ 


tilled  water  of  the  flower,  and  applied  to  any  place  wherein 
thorns  and  splinters,  or  the  like,  do  abide  in  the  flesh,  it  will 
notably  draw  them  forth.  And  thus,  you  see,  the  thorn  gives 
a  medicine  for  its  own  pricking,  and  so  doth  almost  everything 
else." 

Prohatum  est,  worthy  old  professor  of  physic  and  astrology. 


Myrtle. 

(LOVE.) 

THE  Myrtle,  like  the  rose,  is  generally  considered  symbolic 
of  lovCy  and  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans  was  consecrated 
to  Venus,  around  Avhose  temples  they  planted  groves  of  it ; 
and,  when  the  votaries  of  this  goddess  sacrificed  to  her,  they, 
like  her  attendant  Graces,  wore  myrtle  chaplets.  Mythologists 
assert  that  she,  the  Goddess  of  Beauty,  was  crowned  by  the 
Hours  with  a  wreath  of  this  plant  when  she  sprang  from  the 
foam  of  the  sea,  and  also  that  her  head  was  decked  with  it 
when  Paris  awarded  her  the  golden  apple,  the  prize  for  supre- 
macy of  beauty.  Once,  when  surprised  by  a  troop  of  satyrs 
as  she  emerged  from  her  bath,  she  found  shelter  behind  the 
foliage  of  a  myrtle  ;  and  it  was  with  bunches  of  the  same  plant 
that  she  caused  the  unfortunate  Psyche  to  be  chastised,  for 
having  been  so  audacious  as  to  compare  her  earthly  charms 
with  the  celestial  beauty  of  her  mother-in-law.  It  was  under 
the  name  of  Myrtilla  that  Venus  was  worshipped  in  Greece. 

This  shrub  is  supposed  to  have  derived  its  name  from  Myr- 
sine,  an  Athenian  maiden,  and  favourite  of  Minerva,  said  to 
have  been  metamorphosed  into  the  myrtle  ;  at  any  rate,  it 
owes  its  origin  to  a  Greek  word  signifying /^/y}//;^^.  Why  this 
plant  was  dedicated  to  Venus  remains  an  unsolved  query : 
some  fancy  because  it  often  grows  near  that  goddess's  natal 
element,  the  sea,  and  others  because  the  fragrant  and  perma- 
nent nature  of  its  foliage  might  seem  to  render  it  a  suitable 
tribute  to  the  Goddess  of  Beauty. 

"  Sacred  to  Venus  is  the  myrtle  shade," 

says  the  poet,  and,  as  such,  it  obtained  great  repute  with  the 
ancient  Greeks  and  Romans. 


The  Myrtle.  63 


Not  only  was  this  plant  environed  with  the  sanctity  of  love, 
but  its  beauty  and  fragrance  likewise  rendered  it  a  favourite 
with  several  nations  of  antiquity,  who  gave  particular  attention 
to  odorous  shrubs.  With  the  Jews  the  myrtle  is  a  symbol  of 
peace,  and,  with  that  signification  attached  to  it,  many  allusions 
are  to  be  found  in  the  Old  Testament.  The  common  myrtle, 
which  grows  plentifully  in  Judea,  is  the  plant  referred  to  in  the 
Scriptures,  but  there  are  many  varieties  of  it.  One  variety, 
frequently  called  the  Broad-leaved  Jews'  Myrtle,  is  in  much 
regard  amongst  this  people,  and  is  ofttimes  used  in  those  re- 
ligious ceremonies  which,  through  weal  or  woe,  they  have  so 
tenaciously  kept  ivp.  This  broad-leaved  variety,  to  which  some 
especial  veneration  appears  attached,  is  cultivated  by  nursery- 
men, who  supply  it  exclusively  to  their  Hebrew  customers,  so 
that,  in  this  country  at  least,  it  can  only  be  procured  at  con- 
siderable trouble  and  expense. 

Emblematic  of  its  pacific  meaning  is  that  vision  of  Ze- 
chariah's,  wherein  that  prophet  beheld  the  angel  who  foretold 
the  restoration  of  Israel  standing  in  the  midst  of  myrtles. 
Nehemiah,  when  exhorting  the  people  to  go  forth  and  gather 
'*  the  boughs  of  goodly  trees  "  for  use  at  their  annual  Feast  of 
the  Tabernacles,  includes  myrtle-branches ;  and  Isaiah,  when 
desirous  of  representing  the  blessings  that  would  accrue  to  the 
world  under  the  peaceful  reign  of  Christ,  pictures  that  "Instead 
of  the  thorn  shall  come  up  the  fir-tree,  and  instead  of  the  briar 
shall  come  up  the  myrtle." 

All  Oriental  nations  have  a  passionate  fondness  for  this 
flowering  shrub  ;  and  Mr.  Lane  remarks  that  it  rivals  the 
violet  in  the  esteem  of  the  Arabs,  who  have  a  tradition  that 
Adam,  when  expelled  from  Paradise,  brought  the  myrtle — the 
chief  of  sweet-scented  flowers — into  the  world  with  him.  With 
the  Greeks,  this  flower  was  much  admired  :  their  groves,  so 
renowned  in  song,  were  fragrant  with  its  perfume,  which  the 
richness  of  the  climate  rendered  far  stronger  than  in  ours. 
The  Athenian  magistrates  wore  chaplets  of  myrtle,  as  symbols 
of  their  authority  ;  and  conquerors,  who  during  their  triumphs 
had  obtained  a  bloodless  victory,  were  allowed  to  entwine 
their  laurel  wreaths  with  sprigs  of  myrtle. 

Miss  Pratt,  in  her  work  on  *'  Flowers  and  their  Associations," 
thus  speaks  of  the  prevalent  use  of  the  myrtle  for  typical 


64  The  Myrtle. 


purposes  :  "  The  magisterial  wreaths  were  composed  by  some- 
of  those  artists  whose  profession  it  was  to  form  garlands  and 
to  construct  letters,  the  flowers  of  which  should  be  symbolical 
of  different  ideas.  The  meaning  of  these  wreaths,  or  epistles, 
was  as  fully  understood  by  the  great  body  of  the  people  as 
the  language  of  flowers  is  recognized  in  the  Eastern  harem. 
The  wild  olive,  or  wreath  of  laurel  or  parsley,  which  crowned 
the  brow  of  the  successful  combatant,  appealed  to  the  imagi- 
nation of  his  countrymen,  and  was  deemed  by  the  Grecian 
hero  as  a  well-understood  token  of  applause.  It  was  with  the 
desire  of  giving  to  the  dead  that  which  they  had  loved  in 
life,  that  the  ancients  crowned  the  corpse  with  myrtle.  The 
practice  was  long  continued,  till  the  Fathers  of  the  Church 
at  length  forbade  it,  because  it  was  taken  from  the  heathen 
people ;  but  so  old  and  pleasing  a  custom — one  which  ex- 
pressed so  well  the  feelings  of  the  mourner — was  not  easily 
done  away  with,  and  the  remains  of  it  reached,  in  our  own 
land,  even  down  to  the  present  century,  when  the  dead  were 
enwreathed  with  flowers,  or  a  chaplet  hung  up  in  the  church 
or  laid  upon  the  tomb." 

The  Romans,  with  whom,  indeed,  floral  ceremonies  did  not 
always  exhibit  the  same  purity  and  delicacy  that  they  did  with 
their  predecessors,  seem  to  have  had  as  great  a  fondness  for 
the  myrtle  as  had  the  Hellenes.  "  The  myrtle  blooming  on  the 
sea-beat  shore"  was  deemed  by  them  emblematical  oi  festivity ^ 
because,  it  is  supposed,  they  steeped  it  in  their  wine,  in  the 
belief  that  it  improved  its  flavour  and  added  to  its  invigorat- 
ing properties.  The  invalid,  too,  hoped  for  restoration  to  health 
by  using  its  berries  medicinally.  Sometimes,  at  Rome,  the 
myrtle  garland  was  woven  with  the  laurel  on  the  conqueror's 
triumphant  brow,  in  honour  of  Venus  and  Mars ;  and  on  the 
1st  of  April  the  Roman  ladies  were  accustomed  to  bathe  beneath 
the  myrtle-trees,  and,  crowned  with  their  leaves,  proceed  thence 
to  the  shrine  of  Venus,  and  off"er  sacrifice. 

As  a  rule,  Italians  appear  suspicious  of  perfumes ;  but  it  is 
stated  that  the  Roman  ladies  still  retain  a  strong  predilection 
lor  the  scent  of  this  flower,  and  are  said  to  prefer  its  odour  to 
that  of  the  most  fragrant  essences  ;  impregnating  their  baths 
with  a  water  distilled  from  its  leaves,  persuaded  that  the  plant 
of  Venus  must  be  favourable  to  beauty. 


The  Myrtle.  65 


Virgil,  in  his  "  Pastorals,"  alludes  to  the  fragrance  of  the 
myrtle-blossom  in  these  terms  : 

"Thee,  O  myrtle,  I  will  pluck,  and  next  the  laurel  place, 
For,  thus  arranged,  thou 'It  mingle  sweet  perfumes!" 

The  same  author,  in  his  "  Georgics,"  notices  this  flower's  fond- 
ness for  the  sea-shore — a  fondness  that  has  supplied  the  poets 
with  many  a  simile.  Amongst  other  properties  that  Virgil 
also  assigns  to  this  plant  is  its  adaptibility  for  the  manufacture 
of  weapons,  as 

"The  war  from  stubborn  myrtle  shafts  receives." 

It  was  formerly  much  valued  for  this  purpose,  for  its  dura- 
bility, and,  even  now,  the  Portuguese  consider  its  wood  the 
hardest  which  grows. 

Amongst  the  ancient  writers  who  speak  of  its  symbolism  is 
Pliny :  he  records  that  the  Romans  and  Sabines,  when  they 
were  reconciled,  laid  down  their  weapons  under  a  myrtle-tree, 
and  purified  themselves  with  its  boughs.  When  Harmodius 
and  Aristogiton  set  forth  to  free  their  country  from  hereditary 
monarchy,  their  swords  were  wreathed  with  myrtle. 

Thus  hymns  Moore,  in  a  higher  flight  than  is  usual  with  him, 
when  his  young  hero  is  contemning  the  indolent  and  effemi- 
nate luxury  around  him  : 

"  It  was  not  so,  land  of  the  generous  thought, 
And  daring  deeds  thy  god-lilce  sages  taught; 
It  was  not  thus,  in  bowers  of  wanton  ease, 
Thy  freedom  nursed  her  sacred  energies ; 
Oh !  not  beneath  the  enfeebling,  withering  glow 
Of  such  dull  luxury  did  those  myrtles  grow. 
With  which  she  wreathed  her  sword  when  she  would  dare 
Immortal  deeds ;  but  in  the  bracing  air 
Of  toil,  of  temperance,  and  of  that  high,  rare. 
Ethereal  virtue,  which  alone  can  breathe 
Life,  health,  and  lustre  into  freedom's  wreath." 

Herrick,  who  was  as  apt  as  Milton  himself  at  a  classic  allui^icn, 
thus  offers  to  propitiate  Venus  : 

"Goddess,  I  do  love  a  girl. 
Ruby  lipp'd  and  tooth'd  with  pearl; 
If  so  be  I  may  but  prove 
Lucky  in  this  maid  I  love, 
I  will  promise  there  shall  be 
Myrtles  offered  up  to  thee. " 


66  The  Myrtle. 


As  the  lily  is  coupled  with  the  rose,  so  is  the  myrtle  with 
the  bay  ;  but,  here  the  former  of  the  twain  appears  to  be 
the  poet's  favourite.  Drayton,  in  his  "  Muses'  Elysium,"  has 
gathered  a  number  of  emblematical  garlands,  and  appropriately 


enough  makes 


**The  lover  with  the  myrtle  sprays 
Adorn  his  crisped  tresses. " 


In  an  exquisite  passage  in  Keats'  "  Sleep  and  Poetry,"  that 
poet  tells  of 

"  A  myrtle,  fairer  than 
E'er  grew  in  Paphos,  from  the  bitter  weeds 
Lifts  its  sweet  head  into  the  air,  and  feeds 
A  silent  space  with  ever-sprouting  green. 
All  tenderest  birds  there  find  a  pleasant  screen, 
Creep  through  the  shade  with  noisy  fluttering, 
Nibble  the  little  cupped  flowers,  and  sing." 

Leigh  Hunt,  translating  from  Catullus,  speaks  of 

**  A  myrtle-tree  in  flower, 
Taken  from  an  Asian  bower, 
Where,  with  many  a  dewy  cup. 
Nymphs  in  play  had  nursed  it  up." 

f  Poetic  allusions  to  this  favourite  flower — this  emblem  of 
"  Love,  the  lord  of  all " — might  be  multiplied  to  infinity  ;  for 
who  is  there  that  loves  it  not  that  knows  it,  and,  knowing  it, 
does  not  praise  its  loveliness  ?  Not  only  are  its  blossoms  so 
beautiful,  but,  even  when  flowerless,  the  deep,  lustrous  green 
of  its  foliage  gains  the  admiration  of  all  beholders,  and  reminds 
one  of  what  Professor  Wilson  (of  '*  Noctes  Ambrosianae  "  fame) 
remarked  :  "  They  are  shrubs,  whose  leaves  of  light  have  no 
need  of  flowers." 

Evelyn  informs  us  that  myrtles  were  introduced  into  England 
long  before  the  invention  of  greenhouses  ;  but  in  that  case,  our 
forefathers  must  have  had  some  method  of  sheltering  them 
from  the  cold,  which  was  apparently  more  severe  in  former 
times  than  at  present ;  and  yet,  now-a-days,  it  is  only  in  the 
ivarmer  counties,  such  as  Cornwall  and  Devonshire,  of  our 
uncongenial  and  ever  varying  clime,  that  it  can  stand  un- 
defended the  test  of  winter.  Those  beautiful  and  fragrant 
myrtle  hedges  which  ancient  and  modern  authors  have  so 
frequently  dilated  upon,  are  only  to  be  found  beneath  the  ever 
blue  and  cloudless  skies  of  sunnier  climes  than  ours.     It  is  in 


The  Myrtle.  67 


Africa,  in  Oriental  lands,  or  in  Southern  Europe,  that  we  must 
seek  those  shining  myrtle  groves  of  which  the  poets  sing. 
"The  shrub  consecrated  to  love,"  says  a  French  traveller, 
"  forms,  in  Candia,  hedges  and  thickets,  and  is  so  common 
that  it  might  almost  be  considered  as  the  bramble  of  the 
country."  The  beautiful  enclosed  gardens  of  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope  are  adorned  with  hedges  of  myrtle  :  their  blooming 
beauties  waving  over  the  head  of  the  passenger,  they  unite 
their  fragrance  with  the  odoriferous  exhalations  from  the 
orange  and  lemon-trees,  so  abundant  in  that  clime. 

In  the  Canary  Isles  the  myrtle  flourishes  in  profusion,  grow- 
ing to  a  considerable  height,  and  is  found,  it  is  stated,  at  an 
elevation  of  3,000  feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea.  It  is  not  so 
abundant  as  formerly,  however,  the  Portuguese  having  cut  down 
such  enormous  quantities  for  use  on  saints'  festivals,  and  other 
religious  or  public  ceremonies.  The  myrtle  hedges  in  Italy 
are  described  as  surpassingly  fragrant,  whilst  in  Switzerland 
the  uses  to  which  this  plant  is  put  are  numberless.  The  vola- 
tile oil  extracted  from  the  leaves  of  the  myrtle  is  extremely 
astringent,  and,  being  thought  to  have  considerable  effect  in 
improving  the  hair^  is  a  frequent  ingredient  in  a  pomade  em- 
ployed for  that  purpose.  A  diverting  story  illustrative  of  this 
plant's  astringent  nature  is  related  in  the  '*  Dictionnaire  Portatif 
d'Histoire  Naturelle."  By  chance,  a  gentleman  was  left  a  few 
minutes  in  a  lady's  boudoir,  and,  to  occupy  his  spare  time, 
began  investigating  the  vases  that  were  placed  about  the 
apartment :  he  discovered  in  one  some  myrtle  pomade,  and 
with  a  curiosity  worthy  of  a  son  of  Eve,  put  some  of  it  upon 
his  lips,  placing  himself  meanwhile  before  a  mirror,  in  order 
to  see  the  effects  of  the  presumed  beautifier.  The  lady  en- 
tering suddenly,  disturbed  his  proceedings,  and  when  he 
attempted  to  hide  his  confusion  by  addressing  her,  to  his 
dismay  he  found  his  mouth  tightly  closed  by  the  pomade's 
adhesive  property.  A  sudden  glance  at  the  vase  revealed  to 
the  lady  the  cause  of  his  embarrassment,  and  produced  an 
uncontrollable  burst  of  laughter  at  the  indiscreet  youth's 
expense.  Such  ludicrous  anecdotes  of  the  self-styled  "■  lords 
of  creation  "  serve  well  "  to  point  a  moral  or  adorn  a  tale." 


5—2 


Jasmine. 

(AMIABILITY.) 

MANY  florigraphical  significations  are  attached  to  this 
exquisitely  scented  flower,  but  the  most  rehable  works 
adopt  it  as  the  representative  of  amiability. 

The  favourite  kind  is  the  Spanish  jasmine,  so  called  because 
it  is  believed  to  have  been  first  introduced  into  Europe,  in  1560, 
by  some  Spaniards,  who  brought  it  from  the  East  Indies.  The 
flowers  are  of  a  blush-red  outside  and  blush  within ;  they  bloom 
at  the  same  time  as  the  Indian,  the  blossoms  of  which  are  of 
a  bright  yellow,  and  are  very  fragrant.  The  common  white 
jasmine  is  an  exceedingly  elegant  plant,  and  is  not  surpassed 
in  fragrance  or  beauty  by  any  of  the  species.  It  is  this  flower 
which  Cowper  delineates  as 

**  The  jasmine  throwing  wide  her  elegant  sweets, 
The  deep  dark  green  of  whose  unvarnished  leaf 
Makes  more  conspicuous  and  illumines  more 
The  bright  profusion  of  her  scattered  stars." 

The  delicate  beauty  and  delicious  scent  of  this  flower  ren- 
dered it  a  valuable  acquisition  to  the  European  Flora,  and  for 
some  time  it  was  only  possessed  by  the  high  and  mighty.  The 
following  romantic  story  of  its  becoming  more  generally  known 
is  related  by  Loudon: 

In  1699,  the  Grand  Duke  of  Tuscany  obtained  a  specimen 
of  jasmine  of  Goa,  with  large  double  blossoms  and  of  exquisite 
scent.  Greedy  of  its  beauties,  he  would  not  allow  it  to  be  pro- 
pagated ;  but  his  gardener  contrived  to  carry  a  sprig  of  it  to 
his  betrothed  on  her  birthday,  and  fully  explained  to  her  how 
to  cultivate  it.  It  grew  rapidly,  and  being  much  admired,  the 
girl  was  able  to  sell  cuttings  of  it  at  a  high  price.  By  these 
means  she  soon  amassed  enough  money  to  enable  her  to  wed 


CHALKS    irHKI 


JASMINE.  69 

her  lover,  who  had  hitherto  been  compelled  to  remain  in  a  state 
of  single  wretchedness,  for  want  of  means  to  alter  his  condi- 
tion. In  memory  of  this  love-legend,  Tuscan  girls  wear  a 
nosegay  of  jasmine  on  their  wedding-day;  and,  says  the  pro- 
verb, "  she  who  is  worthy  to  wear  a  nosegay  of  jasmine  is  as 
good  as  a  fortune  to  her  husband." 

The  Hindoos,  who  use  odoriferous  flowers  in  their  sacrifices, 
particularly  value  the  jasmine  for  this  purpose,  and  mostly 
combine  it  with  the  flower  which  they  call  zanibuk. 

Jasmine  is  most  profusely  cultivated  in  Italian  gardens.  In 
the  East  it  is  carefully  tended  for  the  sake  of  its  stem,  out  of 
which  the  luxurious  Orientals  manufacture  their  pipes.  In 
Arabia  Felix  the  women  strip  the  blossoms  of  this  plant  from 
their  stalks,  and  wear  them  in  their  hair  for  ornaments. 

One  of  the  shrubs  of  which  Milton  formed  the  bower  of 
Adam  and  Eve  in  Paradise  was  jasmine ;  and  Moore,  in  an 
allusion  to  night-blooming  flowers,  thus  sweetly  introduces  this 
favourite  blossom: 

"  Many  a  perfume  breathed 
From  plants  that  wake  when  others  sleep ; 
From  timid  jasmine-buds  that  keep 
Their  odour  to  themselves  all  day, 
But  when  the  sunlight  dies  away 
Let  the  delicious  secret  out 
To  every  breeze  that  roams  about." 

Churchill  states  that  it  is 

**  The  jasmine,  with  which  the  queen  of  flowers, 
To  charm  her  god,  adorns  his  favourite  bowers ; 
Which  brides,  by  the  plain  hand  of  neatness  drest, — 
Unenvied  rival !— wear  upon  the  breast ; 
Sweet  as  the  incense  of  the  morn,  and  chaste 
As  the  pure  zone  which  circles  Dian's  waist." 

St.  Pierre,  in  his  "  Studies  of  Nature,"  speaking  of  the  Caro- 
lina jasmine — the  token  of  separation, — says  that  that  tiny 
feathered  fairy,  the  humming-bird,  builds  his  nest  in  one  of 
the  leaves  of  this  plant,  which  he  rolls  up  into  the  form  of  a 
cone  :  he  finds  his  subsistence  in  its  red  flowers,  resembling 
those  of  the  foxglove,  the  nectareous  glands  of  which  he  licks 
with  his  tongue  ;  he  squeezes  into  them  his  little  body,  which 
looks  in  these  flowers  like  an  emerald  set  in  coral,  and  some- 
times gets  so  far  that  he  may  be  caught  in  this  situation.  ^^ 


■y 


70  Jasmine. 

The  perfumes  emitted  by  plants  are  so  much  stronger  in 
tropical  climes  than  in  our  own  land,  that  when  Europeans 
first  visit  India  they  are  quite  overpowered  by  the  influence  of 
many  of  them,  especially  of  the  large  jasmine.  The  early 
fragrance  of  these  flowers  is  described  as  delicious,  one  au- 
thority stating  that  even  the  dews  are  impregnated  with  their 
odour,  rendering  a  morning  walk  delightful  In  the  Orient, 
jasmine  is  deemed  emblematic  of  the  sweets  of  friendship.  It 
is  a  very  favourite  flower  with  the  Hindoo  ladies,  who  perfume 
their  apartments  and  their  hair  with  the  blossoms  of  the  large 
flowering  kind,  known  as  the  champdca.  Sir  William  Jones 
says  the  Brahmins  of  this  province  insist  that  the  blue  campac 
flowers  only  in  Paradise  ;  and  in  Marsden's  ''  Sumatra "  we 
read  that  the  Sultan  of  Menangcabow  keeps  the  flower  cham- 
pcka  that  is  blue  and  to  be  found  in  no  other  country  but  his, 
being  yellow  elsewhere ;  and  in  allusion  to  this  flower  Moore 
says: 

'*  A  tear-drop  glistened 
"Within  his  eyelids,  like  the  spray 
^  From  Eden's  fountain,  when  it  lies 

On  the  blue  flower  which,  Brahmins  say, 
Blooms  nowhere  but  in  Paradise." 

The  golden-coloured  champac,  of  which  Niebuhr  speaks, 
Moore,  in  his  "  Lalla  Rookh,"  thus  sweetly  introduces: 

"The  maid  of  India,  blest  again  to  hold 
In  her  full  lap  the  champack's  leaves  of  gold, 
Thinks  of  the  time  when,  by  the  Ganges'  flood, 
Her  little  playmates  scattered  many  a  bud 
Upon  her  long  black  hair,  with  glassy  gleam 
Just  dripping  from  the  consecrated  stream." 

In  his  notes  to  the  above  poem,  Moore  remarks  that  the 
appearance  of  the  blossom  of  the  gold-coloured  campac,  or 
jasmine,  on  the  black  hair  of  the  Hindoo  women,  has  supplied 
the  Sanscrit  poets  with  many  elegant  allusions.  It  cannot  be 
denied  that  this  exquisitely  scented  flower  supplied  the  Irish 
Anacreon  himself  with  many  beautiful  comparisons ;  what 
sweeter  could  he  say  of  Arabian  brides  than  that  they  are 

"As  delicate  and  fair 
As  the  white  jasmine  flowers  they  wear  "  ? 

Of  this  last-named  plant  Sir  J.  E.  Smith  relates  the  follow- 
ing anecdote:  A  Pope  having  dreamed  that  a  great  quantity 


Jasmine- 


71 


of  snow  had  fallen  on  a  particular  spot  during  the  month  of 
August,  upon  discovering  that  his  dream  had  actually  been 
realized,  built  in  commemoration  the  Borghese  Chapel  at 
Rome,  and  directed  that  on  the  anniversary  of  the  day  a  repre- 
sentation of  a  snow-shower  should  be  given  to  the  congrega- 
tion throughout  the  service.  The  mimic  snow  was  made  of 
the  lovely  and  fragrant  flowers  of  the  white  jasmine  ;  but,  it 
is  said,  the  anticipation  of  the  effect  of  their  powerful  odour 
deterred  the  ladies  of  Rome  from  honouring  the  ceremony 
with  their  attendance. 


Vervai  n. 

(YOU    ENCHANT    ME.) 

VERVAIN,  or  wild  verbena,  has  been  the  floral  symbol  of 
enchanUnent  from  time  immemorial.  It  was  styled 
"  sacred  herb  "  by  the  Greeks,  who  ascribed  a  thousand  mar- 
vellous properties  to  it,  not  the  least  of  which  was  its  power 
of  reconciling-  enemies.  Under  the  influence  of  this  belief, 
they,  as  did  also  the  Romans,  sent  it  by  their  ambassadors  on 
treaties  of  peace  ;  and,  whenever  they  dispatched  their  heralds 
to  offer  terms  of  reconciliation,  renewal  or  suspension  of  hos- 
tilities, one  of  them  invariably  bore  a  sprig  of  vervain.  In 
his  "  Muses'  Elysium,"  Drayton  calls  it  "  holy  vervain,"  and 
thus  speaks  of  it: 

**  A  wreath  of  vervain  heralds  wear 
Amongst  our  garlands  named, 
Being  sent  that  weighty  news  to  bear 
Of  peace  or  war  proclaimed." 

Peoples  of  antiquity  also  frequently  used  this  plant  in  various 
kinds  of  divinations,  sacrifices,  and  incantations;  and  its  spe- 
cific name  of  verbena  originally  signified  a  herb  used  to  deco- 
rate altars.  Ben  Jonson,  who  was  never  happier  than  in  a 
classic  allusion,  says, 

"Bring  your  garlands,  and  with  reverence  place 
The  vervian  on  the  altar." 

It  was  much  valued  by  the  Druids,  being  regarded  by  them 
as  only  second  to  the  mistletoe :  they  used  it  largely  in  their 
divinations  and  casting  of  lots.  Many  impressive  ceremonies 
were  practised,  and  sacrifices  offered  to  the  Earth,  before  they 
cut  this  sacred  plant.  This  was  in  the  spring,  and  according 
to  priestly  orders,  vervain  was  to  be  gathered  about  the  rising 
of  the  Great  Dog  Star,  but  so  as  neither  sun  nor  moon  be  at 


Vervain.  73 


that  time  above  the  earth  to  see  it.  It  was  Ukewise  ordained 
for  those  who  collected  it,  "  that  before  they  take  up  the  herb, 
they  bestow  upon  the  ground  where  it  groweth,  honey  with 
the  combs,  in  token  of  satisfaction  and  amends  for  the  wrong 
and  violence  done  in  depriving  her  of  so  holy  a  herb." 

The  sacred  character  of  this  herb  still  reigned  paramount 
during  the  middle  ages.  In  those  gay  days  when  fairy  folk 
were  accustomed 

**To  dance  their  ringlets  to  the  whistling  wind," 

and  hold  "  their  revels  all  the  luscious  night,"  the  vervain  was 
greatly  prized,  and  used  in  the  composition  of  manifold  charms 
and  love-philtres.  It  was  also  deemed  of  exceeding  value 
for  medicinal  purposes,  and  Culpepper  assigns  more  curative 
virtues  to  it  than  a  whole  pharmacopoeia  of  these  degenerate 
days  affords.  It  was  suspended  round  the  neck  as  an  amulet, 
and  was  deemed  a  sovereign  remedy  for  venomous  bites  and 
all  kinds  of  wounds.  Sir  William  Davenant,  in  his  poem  of 
"  Gondibert,"  alludes  to  its  curative  powers : 

*' Black  melancholy  rusts,  that  fed  despair 

Through  wounds'  long  rage,  with  sprinkled  vervain  cleared ; 
Strewed  leaves  of  willow  to  refresh  the  air, 

And  with  rich  fumes  his  sullen  senses  cheered." 

Although  in  these  stern  matter-of-fact  times  we  have  lost 


'fc. 


' '  The  enchantments,  the  delights,  the  visions  all, 
The  elfin  visions  that  so  blessed  the  sight 
In  the  old  days  romantic," 

yet  are  still  preserved  many  of  the 

"  Beautiful  fictions  of  our  fathers,  wove 
In  superstition's  web  when  Time  was  young, 
And  fondly  loved  and  cherished ; " 

and  amongst  the  few  of  these  fond  fancies  not  yet  obliterated 
from  the  busy  brains  of  men,  are  some  of  those  connected 
with  this  emblem  of  enchantment.  In  some  country  districts 
this  small  insignificant  flower  still  retains  a  portion  of  its  old 
renown,  and  old  folks  tie  it  round  the  neck  to  charm  away  the 
ague :  with  many  it  still  has  the  reputation  of  securing  affec- 
tion from  those  who  take  it  to  those  who  administer  it ;  and 
still  in  some  parts  of  France  do  the  peasantry  continue  to 


74 


Vervain. 


gather  the  vervain,  with  ceremonies  and  words  known  only  to 
themselves,  and  to  express  its  juices  under  certain  phases  of 
the  moon.  At  once  the  doctors  and  conjurors  of  their  village, 
they  alternately  cure  the  complaints  of  their  masters  or  fill 
them  with  dread  ;  for  the  same  means  which  relieve  their  ail- 
ments enable  them  to  cast  a  spell  on  their  cattle  and  on  the 
hearts  of  their  daughters.  They  insist  that  this  power  is  given 
to  them  by  vervain,  especially  when  the  damsels  are  young 
and  handsome.  Thus  vervain  is  still  the  plant  of  spells  and 
enchantments,  as  it  was  amongst  the  ancients. 

This  little  lilac  roadside  flower,  although  it  is  very  common, 
is  said  to  never  be  found  at  a  greater  distance  than  half  a  mile 
from  the  habitations  of  man.  Dr.  Withering  has  dispelled  this 
pleasant  fiction,  and  states  that  he  found  it  in  plenty  at  the 
foot  of  St.  Vincent's  rocks. 


Orange-blossom. 

(CHASTITY.) 

ORANGE-BLOSSOM  is  generally  deemed  typical  of  chas- 
tity, because  of  it  being  customary  for  brides  to  wear 
a  wreath  of  it  on  their  wedding-day.  The  practice,  though 
still  retained  in  some  countries,  is  not  so  fashionable  here  as 
formerly  ;  nevertheless,  bridal  bonnets  frequently  display  an 
artificial  spray  of  these  flowers.  In  his  *'  Ode  to  Memory," 
Tennyson  alludes  to  the  custom  of  using  these  blossoms  at 
nuptials  thus  : 

' '  Like  a  bride  of  old, 

In  triumph  led, 

With  music  and  sweet  showers 

Of  festal  flowers, 
Unto  the  dwelling  she  must  sway. " 

The  wax-hued  blossoms  of  the  syringa  are  often  mistaken 
and  used  in  this  country  for  those  of ''  the  starry  orange-tree  " 
— a  tree  which,  from  the  fact  of  its  being  one  of  those  rare 
productions  of  nature,  bearing  at  the  same  time  foliage,  flowers, 
and  fruit,  has  been  made  the  emblem  oi  generosity.  Mason's 
poem  of  the  "  English  Garden  "  introduces  the  favourite  thus 
prodigally  adorned : 

"  Where  the  citron  sweet 
And  fragrant  orange,  rich  in  fruit  and  flowers, 
Might  hang  their  silver  stars,  their  golden  globes, 
On  the  same  odorous  stem." 

Moore,  in  his  sweet  story  of  "  Paradise  and  the  Peri,"  makes 
a  somewhat  similar  allusion,  but  draws  a  very  different  moral 
from  the  combination  : 

"Just  then,  beneath  some  orange-trees, 
Whose  fruit  and  blossoms  in  the  breeze 
Were  wantoning  together,  free, 
Like  age  at  play  with  infancy." 


76 


Or  A  NGE-BL  OSSOMS. 


These  lovely,  sweet-scented  flowers,  which  have  so  much  to 
do  with  blushing  brides  and  bridal  ceremonies,  would  certainly 
hold  a  foremost  place  in  those  fresh  flowers  which  Mrs.  Hemans 
bids  us  bring  with  which  to  crown  the  maid : 

"  Bring  flowers,  fresh  flowers,  for  the  bride  to  wear  I 
They  were  born  to  blush  in  her  shining  hair. 
She  is  leaving  the  home  of  her  childhood's  mirth, 
She  hath  bid  farewell  to  her  father's  hearth; 
Her  place  is  now  by  another's  side — 
Bring  flowers  for  the  locks  of  the  fair  young  bride." 

And  then,  the  espousals  being  over,  and  the  rare  and  radiant 
maiden  able  to  say, 

**  The  ring  is  on  my  finger, 

And  the  wreath  is  on  my  brow," 

how  appropriate  will  this  sweet  little  song  by  the  late  Ella 
Ingram  seem  : 


"  My  little  bird,  my  pretty  bird. 

Thou  once  wast  wild  and  free, 
And  gaily  then  thy  voice  was  heard 

In  the  starry  orange-tree. 
Beneath  deep  skies  of  glowing  blue 

Thy  golden  plumes  would  float, 
And  fragrant  flowers  of  pearly  hue 

Contrasted  with  thy  coat. 

**  Alas  !  my  bird,  in  sunshine  drest, 
No  more  thou  art  wild  and  free ; 
No  more  thou  'It  find  thy  little  nest 
In  the  dark  green  orange-tree. 


Within  that  bright  and  glowing  isle, 
'Mid  flowers  thou  'It  live  no  more- 

And  yet  my  bird,  beneath  my  smile, 
Sings  sweeter  than  before. 

**  My  pretty  bird,  my  golden  bird, 

I  once  was  wild  and  free : 
In  song  my  voice  was  often  heard, 

And  sunshine  dwelt  with  me. 
But  now  I  'm  caged,  my  pretty  bird, 

And  now  must  rove  no  more. 
And  yet  my  heart,  my  golden  bird. 

Beats  happier  than  before." 


The  fruit  of  the  orange-tree  is  deemed  typical  of  abundance^ 
and  is  supposed  to  be  the  golden  apple  of  the  mythologists. 
Spenser  and  Milton  both  assume  it  to  be  the  veritable  article 
in  question,  and  in  these  stanzas  of  the  "  Faerie  Queene,"  the 
poet  evidently  speaks  of  the  orange: 

"Next  thereunto  did  grow  a  goodly  tree, 

With  branches  broad  dispread  and  body  great, 
Clothdd  with  leaves,  that  none  the  wood  might  see, 
And  laden  all  with  fruit,  as  thick  as  thick  might  be. 

**  The  fruit  were  golden  apples  glistering  bright, 
That  goodly  was  their  glory  to  Dehold ; 
On  earth  no  better  grew,  nor  living  wight 

E'er  better  saw,  but  they  from  hence  *  were  sold, 


*  The  garden  of  Proserpina. 


Orange-blossoms.  7  7 


For  those  which  Hercules,  with  conquest  bold, 
Got  from  great  Atlas'  daughters,  hence  began, 

And  planted  there,  did  bring  forth  fruit  of  gold, 
And  those  with  which  th'  Euboean  young  man  wan  [won] 
Swift  Atalanta,  when,  through  craft,  he  her  outran. 

**  Here  also  sprang  that  goodly  golden  fruit 
With  which  Acontii.is  got  his  lover  true. 
Whom  he  had  long  time  sought  with  fruitless  suit ; 
Here  eke  that  famous  golden  apple  grew, 
The  which  among  the  gods  false  Ate  threw, 
For  which  th'  Idsean  ladies  disagreed, 

Till  partial  Paris  deem'd  it  Venus'  due. 
And  had  [of  her]  fair  Helen  for  his  meed. 
That  many  noble  Greeks  and  Trojans  made  to  bleed." 

The  latter  epicist,  in  the  fourth  book  of  "  Paradise  Lost," 
introduces  the  orange-tree  into  his  fabled  groves  as  one 

"  Whose  fruit,  burnished  with  golden  rind, 
Hung  amiable,  Hesperian  fables  true. 
If  true,  here  only,  and  of  delicious  taste." 

Those  who  know  not,  and  would  know,  all  the  various  legends 
alluded  to  in  these  lines,  should  at  once  resort  to  the  pages  of 
their  "  Lempriere,"  or,  if  desirous  of  a  fuller  story,  to  the 
"  Metamorphoses  "  of  old  Ovid.  This  fruit  was  doubtless  the 
golden  apple  presented  by  Jove  to  Juno  on  the  day  of  their 
nuptials,  so  ancient  is  its  connection  with  bridal  ceremonies. 

According  to  the  poets  and  mythologists,  these  precious 
apples  only  grew  in  the  gardens  of  the  Hesperides,  where  they 
were  preserved  from  all  intruders  by  a  guard  of  never-sleeping 
dragons.  It  was  one  of  the  twelve  labours  of  Hercules  to 
obtain  some  of  them.  These,  again,  were  the  golden  apples 
given  by  Venus  to  the  venturesome  Hippomenes,  by  means  of 
which  he  won  Atalanta.  Probably  Spenser's  opinion  was  just, 
and  this  was  the  fruit  whose  bestowal  upon  Venus  gave  origin 
to  the  Trojan  war,  as  it  was  also  the  instrument  by  which  the 
crafty  Acontius  obtained  his  spouse.  What  numberless  legends, 
poems,  and  fables  are  indeed  associated  with  its  bright,  auri- 
ferous hue,  its  glossy  leaves,  and  its  exquisitely  perfumed 
flowers  !  What  dreams  of  future  happiness,  what  memories  of 
bygone  bliss,  are  connected  with  its  symbolic  blossoms !  How 
gratefully  should  the  man  who  first  introduced  the  orange-tree 
into  Europe  be  remembered,  and  what  honours  does  his  me- 
mory deserve !    But,  alas !  what  uncertainty  obscures  the  never- 


78  Orange-bi.ossoms. 

ought-to-be-forgotten  benefactor  of  his  kind  !  Mickle,  in  the 
prefatory  matter  to  his  translation  of  Camoens'  '*  Luciad,"  re- 
marks that  the  famous  John  de  Castro,  the  Portuguese  con- 
queror in  Asia,  was  said  to  have  been  the  first  who  brought 
the  orange-tree  to  Europe,  and  to  have  esteemed  this  gift  to 
his  country  as  the  greatest  of  his  actions.  He  adds  that  orange- 
trees  are  still  preserved  at  Cintra  as  memorials  of  the  place 
where  he  first  planted  that  valuable  fruitage.  Evelyn's  account 
of  the  introduction  of  the  first  China  orange-tree  which  ap- 
peared in  Europe  is  that  it  was  sent  as  a  present  to  the  old 
Count  Mellor,  then  Prime  Minister  to  the  King  of  Portugal. 

In  her  pretty  address  to  the  humming-bird,  the  feathered 
fairy  of  the  New  World,  Charlotte  Smith  alludes  to  this  bril- 
liant member  of  the  floral  court,  thus  : 

* '  There,  lovely  bee-bird  !  may'st  thou  rove 
Through  spicy  vale  and  citron  grove, 
And  woo  and  win  thy  fluttering  love 

With  plume  so  bright ; 
There  rapid  fly,  more  heard  than  seen, 
'Mid  orange-boughs  of  polished  green, 
With  glowing  fruit,  and  flowers  between 

Of  purest  white." 


Camp  HIRE, 

(FRAGRANCE.) 

IF  the  West  can  now  vaunt  of  the  beauty  and  fragrance  of 
r  its  roses  and  carnations,  the  East  alone  can  boast  of  the 
Camphire,  which  pleases  alike  by  loveliness  and  odour.  Its 
light  green  foliage,  the  pretty  mixture  of  white  and  yellow  in 
its  clusters  of  blossoms,  and  the  red  hue  of  its  little  flower- 
stalks,  render  it  as  grateful  to  the  eye  as  to  the  smell.  It  is 
the  favourite  flower  of  Egyptian  ladies,  who  deck  themselves 
with  its  blossoms,  embellish  their  apartments  with  them,  carry 
them  to  their  bath,  continually  hold  them  in  their  hand  ;  in  a 
word,  perfume  their  persons  with  their  delicious  perfume,  so 
that  the  Prophet's  praise,  "  My  beloved  is  unto  me  as  a  cluster 
of  camphire,"  may  be  considered  as  rather  more  than  a  figura- 
tive expression.  At  Cairo,  it  is  said,  clusters  of  these  flowers 
may  be  seen  hanging  to  the  ceilings  of  houses,  where  they  not 
only  please  the  eye,  but  purify  the  air.  Egyptian  women  have 
such  an  intense  love  of  camphire  that  they  would  willingly 
appropriate  it  exclusively  to  their  own  use,  and  are  extremely 
jealous  of  Christian  and  Hebrew  women  partaking  of  it  with 
them.  From  its  leaves  is  produced  the  admired  orange-coloured 
dye  with  which  they  stain  certain  parts  of  their  hands  and 
feet.  This  custom,  however,  is  very  prevalent,  not  only  in 
Egypt,  but  in  several  other  countries  of  the  East,  which  are 
largely  supplied  with  henna,  as  the  Orientals  call  the  camphire, 
from  the  Nile's  fruitful  banks. 

The  practice  of  staining  the  nails  with  henna  is  alluded  to 
in  all  works  of  Eastern  travel,  and  it  is  from  this  habit  that 
the  plant  is  made  the  emblem  of  artifice.  In  the  ''  Story  of 
Prince  Futtun  in  Bahardanush,"  it  is  saiJ,  ''they  tinged  the 
ends  of  the  fingers  scarlet  with  henna,  so  that  they  resembled 
branches  of  coral."    And,  in  his  poem  of  the  ''  Veiled  Prophet 


8o  Camp  HIRE. 


of  Khorassan,"  Moore  has  thus  daintily  availed  himself  of  the 
comparison : 

"  While  some  bring  leaves  of  henna,  to  imbue 
The  fingers'  ends  with  a  bright  roseate  hue, 
So  bright,  that  in  the  mirror's  depth  they  seem 
Like  tips  of  coral -branches  in  the  stream." 

As  the  henna  is  so  little  known  in  Western  lands,  a  short 
description  may  not  be  deemed  altogether  foreign  to  the  pur- 
pose of  this  book.  It  is  a  tall  shrub,  with  the  bark  of  the  stem 
and  branches  of  a  deep  grey.  The  leaves  are  of  a  lengthened 
oval  form,  opposite  to  each  other,  and  of  a  faint  green  colour. 
The  flowers  grow  at  the  extremities  of  the  branches  in  long 
and  tufted  bouquets,  supported  by  small  red  stalks,  which  give 
a  very  brilliant  aspect  to  the  plant,  contrasting  as  they  do  with 
the  delicate  white  and  yellow  of  which  the  blossoms,  collected 
in  long  clusters  like  the  lilac,  are  coloured. 

Lane,  in  his  work  on  "  Egypt  and  the  Egyptians,"  says  that 
the  Egyptian  henna  is  pronounced  more  excellent  than  the 
rose  ;  and  Mahomet  said,  "  The  chief  of  the  sweet-scented 
flowers  of  this  world  and  of  the  next  is  the  faghiyehl'  this 
being  the  bloom  he  meant.  ''  I  approve  of  his  taste,"  adds 
Lane,  "  for  this  flower  has  most  delicious  fragrance." 

Sometimes  the  kiipros,  as  the  Greeks  call  this  plant,  grows 
on  the  hills  of  the  islands  in  the  Grecian  Archipelago,  pouring 
its  sweetness  on  the  vales  beneath,  ''  stealing  and  giving  odour  " 
to  the  passing  airs  of  "  the  sweet  south."  Its  blossoms,  when 
gathered,  are  the  favourites  of  the  Hellenic  women,  who  re- 
tain an  ancestral  fondness  for  flowers,  and  use  them  in  pro- 
fusion. 

The  Hindoo  maidens  dye  their  nails  with  henna  as  soon  as 
they  are  betrothed,  which  is  generally  at  a  very  early  age ;  they 
also  use  it  to  colour  the  soles  of  their  feet  and  the  palms  of 
their  hands.  The  practice  of  using  this  dye  appears  to  be  very 
ancient,  from  the  circumstance  that  the  mummies  of  Egypt 
have  often  their  nails  covered  with  the  red  paste  of  the  henna. 

The  aged  Mahommedans  frequently  pvTfume  their  beards 
by  holding  the  face  over  the  vapour  arising  from  a  preparation 
of  this  odoriferous  bloom,  and  this  was  doubtless  the  perfume 
which,  poured  upon  Aaron^s  beard,  was  in  its  sweetness  com- 
pared by  the  Psalmist  to  the  delights  of  fraternal  afiection. 


Camp  HIRE.  8 1 


An  extract  prepared  from  the  dried  leaves  of  this  plant  is 
used  by  Oriental  races  on  visits  and  festive  occasions,  and  is 
profusely  employed  in  their  religious  ceremonies. 

In  Egypt  the  henna  flowers  are  hawked  about  the  streets 
for  sale,  and  the  vendor,  as  he  proceeds,  cries  aloud,  "Oh, 
odours  of  Paradise  !     Oh,  flowers  of  the  henna  !" 

Miss  Pratt,  in  her  "  Flowers  and  their  Associations,"  intro- 
duces some  lines  of  her  own,  in  which  this  beloved  bloom  of 
the  Orient  is  alluded  to: 

*'She  read  of  isles  renowned  in  song, 

Of  skies  of  cloudless  blue, 
And  flowery  plants  which  all  year  long 

Wore  tints  of  brightest  hue ; 
Of  vine-clad  groves  and  myrtle  shade?. 

And  hills  with  verdure  clad, 
Where  rose  and  henna  ever  made 

The  fragrant  earth  seem  glad ; 
And  as  she  read,  the  dreamer  fair 
Sat,  wishing  that  her  home  was  therr/^ 


Anemone. 

(WITHERED   HOPES.— FORSAKEN.) 

THOSE  matter-of-fact  people  who  will  always  have  2,  pro 
ready  for  their  old  gossips'  con,  assert  that  this  flower  de- 
rives its  name  from  anemos,  the  Greei^  word  for  wind,  and  say 
thence  came  our  poetical  appellation  of  "the  wind-flower." 
The  glorious  ancients,  however,  tell  us  that  the  anemo7ie  was 
formerly  a  nymph  beloved  by  Zephyr,  and  that  Flora,  jealous 
of  her  beauty,  banished  her  from  her  Court,  and  finally  trans- 
formed her  into  the  flower  that  now  bears  her  name.  Rapin 
makes  use  of  this  story  in  his  Latin  poem,  "  The  Gardens,"  as 
he  does  also  of  another  oft-told  tale,  which  states  that  the 
anemone  sprang  from  the  blood  of  Adonis,  combined  with  the 
tears  which  Venus  shed  over  his  body.  There  are  so  many 
versions  of  this  latter  fable  that  it  is  impossible  to  say  which 
looks  the  most  authentic.  The  Greek  poet  Bion,  in  his  "  La- 
ment for  Adonis,"  says, 

**  That  wretched  queen,  Adonis  bewailing,  * 

For  every  drop  of  blood  lets  fall  a  tear ; 
Two  blooming  flowers  the  mingled  streams  disclose  : 
Anemone  the  tears ;  the  blood,  a  rose. 

Ovid's  account  of  the  metamorphosis  is  that  Venus,  lamenting 
over  the  bleeding  body  of  her  lover,  endeavoured  to  perpetuate 
his  memory  and  commemorate  her  grief  by  transforming  his 
blood  into  a  flower. 

Some  writers  say  this  delicate  blossom  received  its  name 
of  the  wind-flower  because  many  of  the  species  grow  on  ele- 
vated places,  where  they  are  exposed  to  the  rough  embraces  of 
old  Boreas ;  and  others — for  commentators  on  the  subject  are 
endless — think  they  are  so  called  because  they  tremble  and 
shiver  before  the  vernal  gales.  Pliny  goes  so  far  as  to  assert  that 
it  never  blooms  except  when  the  wind  blows ;  but  then  Pliny's 
experience  of  natural  phenomena  is  well  known  to  rival  Mun- 
chausen's own.     Strange  to  say,  the  Latin  is  thus  supported  in 


Anemone.  83 


his  opinion  by  the  authority  of  Horace  Smith,  in  his  poem  of 
*' Amarynthus :" 

"  Coy  anemone,  that  ne'er  uncloses 
tier  lips  until  they're  blown  on  by  the  wind." 

It  would  certainly  seem  more  characteristic  for  these  frail 
blossoms  to  open  their  lips  to  the  kisses  of  the  sun,  for,  when 
he  shines, 

' '  Thick  strewn  in  woodland  bowers, 
Anemones  their  stars  unfold. " 

The  anemones  are  natives  of  the  East,  whence  their  roots 
were  originally  brought.  Their  species  are  very  numerous  and 
have  been  much  improved  and  diversified  by  culture. 

The  Abbe  la  Pluche  relates  a  suggestive  anecdote  of  this 
flower.  He  informs  us  that  M.  Bachelier,  a  Parisian  florist, 
having  imported  some  very  beautiful  species  of  the  anemone 
from  the  East  Indies,  kept  them  to  himself  in  so  miserly  a 
manner  that  for  ten  successive  years  he  would  never  allow  the 
slightest  fibre  of  his  precious  double-blossomed  variety  to  pass 
out  of  his  own  hands,  not  even  to  his  nearest  and  dearest  friends. 
A  councillor  of  the  French  Parliament,  annoyed  at  seeing  one 
man  hoarding  up  for  his  own  delight  what  Nature  had  most 
decidedly  given  for  the  benefit  of  the  many,  visited  him  at  his 
country  house,  in  the  hope  of  obtaining  means  of  breaking  up 
this  unjust  monopoly.  In  walking  round  the  garden,  when  he 
came  to  Bachelier's  bed  of  much-prized  anemones,  which  were 
then  in  seed,  he  skilfully  let  his  robe  fall  on  them ;  by  this  de- 
vice he  swept  off"  a  considerable  number  of  the  little  grains, 
which  adhered  to  the  garment.  His  servant,  who  had  been 
previously  instructed,  dexterously  wrapped  them  up  in  a  mo- 
ment, without  exciting  any  attention.  At  the  first  opportunity 
the  councillor  acquainted  his  friends  with  the  successful  result 
of  his  visit ;  and  by  their  participation  in  his  theft,  the  flower 
soon  became  generally  known. 

The  wise  Egyptians,  who  beheld  a  deep  signification  in  all 
the  productions  of  Nature,  regarded  the  anemones  as  the  em- 
blem of  sickness^  probably,  it  has  been  suggested,  on  account 
of  its  noxious  properties.  In  some  countries  people  have  such 
a  prejudice  against  the  flowers  of  the  field-anemone  that  they 
believe  they  so  taint  the  air,  that  those  who  inhale  it  often 
incur  severe  illness. 


84  Anemone. 


A  well-known  writer  on  floral  themes  deems  it  probable 
that  it  became  so  ill-omened  a  symbol  on  account  of  the  frail 
and  delicate  appearance  of  the  wild  species,  which  she  poeti- 
cally describes:  "The  flush  of  pale  red  which  tinges  the  white 
petals  of  the  wood-anemone  might  well  remind  us  of  that 
delicate  glow  which  lingers  on  the  cheek  of  the  consumptive 
sufferer,  marking  to  others  the  inward  decay,  but  giving  a 
lustre  and  a  glow  of  beauty  which  deceives  its  victim." 

This  last  hypothesis  is  probably  the  true  one ;  and  Sir 
William  Jones,  whose  poetry  is  deeply  imbued  with  Oriental 
learning,  thus  alludes  to  the  fragility  of  this  flower: 

"Youth,  like  a  thin  anemone,  displays 
His  silken  leaf,  and  in  a  mom  decays." 

The  same  author  has  translated  an  ode  by  the  Turkish  poet 
Mesihi,  in  which,  amongst  other  sweet  blooms,  anemones  are 
introduced : 

**  See  !  yon  anemones  their  leaves  unfold, 
With  rubies  flaming,  and  with  living  gold. " 

In  this  country  the  buds  of  the  wood-anemone  are  gene- 
rally of  a  snowy  whiteness ;  but  sometimes  a  delicate  flush,  like 
the  blush  on  a  maiden's  cheek,  tinges  their  exquisitely  formed 
petals,  and  sometimes  they  are  found  coloured  a  rosy  red. 

"These  flowers  are  like  the  pleasures  of  the  world,"  said 
Shakspeare ;  and  admirably  expressive  of  the  transitory  nature 
of  beauty  was  that  device  of  a  fragile  anemone  with  the  motto 
*'Brevis  est  tistis.''    ("  Her  reign  is  short.") 

The  best  known  species  of  this  flower,  the  wood-anemone, 
grows  very  far  north,  and  is  common  in  the  woods  of  North 
America.  They  are  considered  very  unwholesome  for  cattle, 
and  two  kinds  which  grow  on  that  continent  are  said  to  prove 
fatal  to  animals  who  eat  them. 

Linnaeus  observed  that  the  wood-anemone  expanded  in 
Sweden  at  the  same  time  that  the  swallows  returned  from  their 
migration,  and  British  naturalists  have  observed  the  same  phe- 
nomenon. Mrs.  Hemans  has  remarked  the  beautiful  pencilling 
of  this  flower;  and  Miss  Pratt  has  favoured  us  with  these 
appropriate  lines  to  wood-anemones  : 

**  Flowers  of  the  Avild  wood  !  your  home  is  there, 
'Mid  all  that  is  fragrant,  all  that  is  fair ; 


Anemone.  85 


Where  the  wood-mouse  makes  his  home  in  the  earth; 
Where  gnat  and  butterfly  have  their  birth ; 
Where  leaves  are  dancing  over  each  flower, 
Fanning  it  well  in  the  noontide  hour, 
And  the  breath  of  the  wind  is  murmuring  lov.', 
As  branches  are  bending  to  and  fro. 

**  Sweet  are  the  memories  that  ye  bring 


Of  the  pleasant  leafy  woods  of  spring ; 

Of  the  wild  bee,  so  gladly  humming. 

Joyous  that  earth's  young  flowers  are  coming ; 

Of  the  nightingale  and  merry  thrush, 

Cheerfully  singing  from  every  bush ; 

And  the  cuckoo's  note,  when  the  air  is  still, 

Heard  far  away  on  the  distant  hill. 


*'  Pure  are  the  sights  and  sounds  of  the  wild 
Ye  can  bring  to  the  heart  of  Nature's  child ; 
Plain  and  beautiful  is  the  story 
That  ye  tell  of  your  Maker's  glory; 
Useful  the  lesson  that  ye  bear. 
That  fragile  is  all,  however  fair  ; 
While  ye  teach  that  time  is  on  his  wing, 
As  ye  open  the  blossoms  of  every  spring.'' 


'^ 


Periwinkle. 

(TENDER  RECOLLECTIONS.) 

IN  France  the  Periwinkle,  which  there  is  sometimes  called 
"  the  magician's  violet,"  is  considered  the  emblem  of  sin- 
cere friendship,  and  as  such  is  much  used  in  their  language  of 
flowers.  The  English  have  adopted  this  evergreen  plant  as 
the  representative  of  tender  recollections ,  and,  accepting  it  for 
that,  the  following  little  anecdote  appears  very  appropriate: 
Rousseau  tells  us  that  one  day,  when  walking  with  Madame 
de  Warens,  she  suddenly  exclaimed,  '*  Here  is  the  periwinkle 
yet  in  flower !"  Being  too  short-sighted  to  see  the  plant  with- 
out stooping,  he  had  never  observed  it  before;  he  gave  it  a 
passing  glance,  and  saw  it  no  more  for  thirty  years.  At  the 
end  of  that  period,  as  he  was  walking  with  a  friend,  "  having 
then  began,"  he  says,  "  to  botanize  a  little,  in  looking  among 
the  bushes  by  the  way,  I  uttered  a  cry  of  joy:  'Ah,  there  is 
the  periwinkle !'  and  so  it  was."  He  gives  this  as  an  instance 
of  the  vivid  recollection  he  had  of  every  incident  occurring  at 
a  particular  period  of  his  life.  Although  the  story  is  trifling, 
it  is  so  natural,  is  told  with  so  much  simplicity,  and  is  so  appli- 
cable to  our  purpose,  that  we  could  not  think  of  omitting  it. 

In  Italy  the  country  people  make  garlands  of  this  plant,  to 
place  upon  the  biers  of  their  deceased  children,  for  which  reason 
they  name  it  the  "  flower  of  death."  But  in  Germany  it  is  the 
symbol  of  ir/imortality ;  and,  because  its  fine  glossy  myrtle- 
green  leaves  flourish  all  through  the  winter,  they  term  it  ''win- 
ter verdure." 

Its  bright  blue  blossoms  and  still  brighter  green  leaves  have 
not  been  overlooked  by  the  poets ;  and  we  find  Eliza  Cook 
introducing  it  into  her  pathetic  poem  of  "The  BUnd  Boy:" 


Periwinkle.  87 

* '  We  asked  him  why  he  wept,  mother, 
Whene'er  we  found  the  spots 
Where  periwinkle  crept,  mother. 
O'er  wild  forget-me-nots, 

*  Ah  me ! '  he  said,  while  tears  ran  down 

As  fast  as  summer  showers ; 

*  It  is  because  I  cannot  see 

The  sunshine  and  the  flowers.'" 

Chaucer  repeatedly  speaks  of  it  in  his  "Romaunt  of  the 
Rose,"  even  making  it  one  of  the  ornaments  of  the  God  of 
Love: 

**  His  garment  was  every  dele 
Ipurtraied  and  wrought  with  floures, 
By  divers  medeling  of  coloures ; 
Floures  there  was  of  many  a  gise, 
Iset  by  campace  in  a  sise ; 
There  lacked  no  floure  to  my  dome, 
Ne  not  so  moch  as  floure  of  brome, 
Ne  violet,  ne  eke  perevink, 
Ne  floure  none  that  men  can  on  think." 

The  Madagascar  periwinkle  is  a  lovely  plant,  with  an  up- 
right stem  three  or  four  feet  high ;  its  flowers  are  crimson  or 
peach-coloured  on  the  upper  surface,  and  a  pale  flesh-colour  on 
the  under:  it  varies  with  a  white  flower,  having  a  purple  eye. 
It  will  seldom  live  out  of  doors  in  this  climate. 

In  his  "  Herbal,"  old  Culpepper  says  that  the  periwinkle  is 
owned  by  Venus,  and  that  "  the  leaves,  eaten  together  by  man 
and  wife,  caused  love  between  them;"  but  now-a-days  it  re- 
quires a  somewhat  stronger  tonic,  apparently,  to  produce  so 
desirable  a  result. 


^^^<s^^/^^^^iy^ 


0    0^22}^ 


Weeping  Willow. 

(MOURNING.) 

THE  Weeping  Willow  is  one  of  those  natural  emblems 
which  bear  their  florigraphical  meaning  so  palpably  im- 
pressed on  their  sympathetic  faces  that  the  merest  novice  in 
the  language  of  flowers  must  comprehend  their  signification  at 
first  sight.  This  tree  has  ever  been  regarded  as  the  symbol  of 
sorrow,  and  most  appropriately,  for  not  only  do  its  pensive- 
looking  branches  droop  mournfully  towards  the  ground,  but 
even  very  frequently  little  drops  of  water  are  to  be  seen  stand- 
ing, like  tears,  upon  the  pendent  leaves.  In  its  native  East  it 
is  often  planted  over  graves,  and  with  its  sorrowful,  afflicted 
look,  forms  a  most  appropriate  guardian  of  dear  departed  ones' 
remains.  Although  it  will  grow  in  any  ordinary  ground,  it 
thrives  best  in  the  neighbourhood  of  streams  or  other  moist 
ground,  for  which  situations,  indeed,  Nature  has  in  every  way 
fitted  it.  Many  a  delightful  English  landscape  owes  a  large 
portion  of  its  quiet  beauty — its  soothing  pensiveness — to  these 

*' Shadowy  trees,  that  lean 
So  elegantly  o'er  the  water's  brim  " 

of  the  bright  little  brook  that,  heedless  of  man's  joy  or  grief, 
flows  merrilv  on  for  ever 

*'  By  many  a  field  and  fallow, 
And  many  a  fairy  foreland  set 
With  willow-mead  and  mallow." 

As  long  ago  as  Virgil  the  poets  learnt  to  tell  how  "  willows 
grow  about  rivers;"  or,  if  we  may  rely  on  Pope's  rendering  of 
Homer,  as  far  back  as  the  days  of  "  the  blind  old  man  of  Scio's 
rocky  isle,"  were  seen  and  noted  "  willows  trembling  o'er  the 
floods." 


Weeping    Willow.  89 


The  author  of  the  "  Essay  on  Man  "  should  know  something 
about  the  lachrymal  tree,  as,  according  to  popular  tradition,  he 
raised  the  first  known  specimen  of  it  in  England.  Martyn 
relates  the  story  thus : 

"  The  famous  and  admired  weeping  willow  planted  by  Pope, 
which  has  since  been  felled  to  the  ground,  came  from  Spain, 
enclosing  a  present  for  Lady  Suffolk.  Pope  was  present  when 
the  covering  was  taken  off ;  he  observed  that  the  pieces  of  stick 
appeared  as  if  they  had  some  vegetation,  and  added, '  Perhaps 
they  may  produce  something  we  have  not  in  England.'  Under 
this  idea,  he  planted  it  in  his  garden,  and  it  produced  the 
willow-tree  that  has  given  birth  to  so  many  others." 

According  to  this  same  authority,  this  progenitor  of  so  many 
lovely  offspring,  and  which  had  only  reached  its  fourteenth 
year  when  the  poet  died,  was  cut  down  by  order  of  its  owner, 
in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the  annoyance  she  experienced 
from  the  numberless  applicants  for  cuttings  of  the  precious 
relic,  or  even  for  a  view  of  it.  It  is  sad  that  so  interesting  a 
tree  could  not  have  been  suffered  to  perish  by  the  hand  of 
time :  that  was  indeed  a  tree  the  woodman  should  have 
spared ! 

Linnaeus  named  this  tree  Salix  Bahylo7iica,  or  Willow  of 
Babylon,  in  allusion  to  an  affecting  passage  in  the  hundred 
and  thirty-seventh  Psalm,  where  the  captive  children  of  Israel 
are  represented  as  hanging  their  harps  upon  the  willows  by  the 
rivers  of  Babylon,  where  they  sat  down  and  wept  at  the  re- 
membrance of  their  native  land,  and  at  the  request  of  their 
captors  that  they  should  sing  unto  them  one  of  the  songs  of 
Zion;  for,  as  the  Psalmist  makes  them  so  pathetically  cry, 
"  How  shall  we  sing  the  Lord's  song  in  a  foreign  land  V 

In  his  "■  Hebrew  Melodies,"  Byron  has  bequeathed  us  two 
passionate  poems,  suggested  by  this  song  of  the  royal  minstrel. 
The  following  is  the  most  appropriate  here : 

*'  We  sat  down  and  wept  by  the  waters 

Of  Babel,  and  thought  of  the  day 
When  our  foe,  in  the  hue  of  his  slaughters. 

Made  Salem's  high  places  his  prey; 
And  ye,  O  her  desolate  daughters ! 

Were  scattered  all  weeping  away. 

'^*  While  sadly  we  gazed  on  the  river, 
Which  rolled  on  in  freedom  below. 


90  Weeping    Willow. 


He  demanded  the  song ;  but,  oh,  never 

That  triumph  the  stranger  shall  know ! 
May  this  right  hand  be  withered  for  ever 

Ere  it  string  our  high  harp  for  the  foe  I 

**  On  the  willows  that  harp  is  suspended, 

O  Salem !     Its  sound  should  be  free : 
And  the  hour  when  thy  glories  were  ended 

But  left  me  that  token  of  thee ; 
And  ne'er  shall  its  soft  note  be  blended 

With  the  voice  of  the  spoiler  by  me." 

Ever,  from  the  earliest  times,  the  willow  has  been  regarded 
as  the  emblem  of  grief,  and  as  such  our  older  poets  have  fre- 
quently connected  it  with  forsaken  and  unhappy  lovers.  There 
is  an  ancient  ballad  in  "  Percy's  Reliques,"  entitled  "  The  Wil- 
low Tree,"  being  a  pastoral  dialogue  between  two  rural  swains, 
in  which  this  tree  is  depicted  as  the  ensign  of  mourning: 

Willy  speaks : 

"  How  now,  shepherde,  what  meanes  that? 
Why  that  willowe  in  thy  hat  ? 
Why  thy  scarffes  of  red  and  yellowe 
Turned  to  branches  of  green  willowe?" 

Cuddy  replies : 

*'  They  are  changed,  and  so  am  I ; 
Sorrowes  live,  but  pleasures  die : 
Phillis  hath  forsaken  mee. 
Which  makes  me  weare  the  willowe -tree." 

Willy  speaks : 

"Shepherde,  be  advised  by  mee, 
Cast  off  grief  and  willowe-tree ; 
For  thy  grief  brings  her  content : 
She  is  pleased  if  thou  lament." 

Cuddy  answers : 

"Herdsman,  I'll  be  ruled  by  thee, — 
There  liees  grief  and  willowe-tree ; 
Henceforth  I  will  do  as  they. 
And  love  a  new  love  every  day." 

Percy  includes  in  his  valuable  collection  another  still  older 
and  more  pathetic  ballad,  named  after  the  willow,  and  believes 
it  to  be  the  song  that  Desdemona  thus  affectingly  introduces : 

**  My  mother  had  a  maid  called  Barbara  : 
She  was  in  love ;  and  he  she  lov'd  prov'd  mad, 
And  did  forsake  her.     She  had  a  song  of  '  Willow.* 
An  old  thing  't  was,  but  it  express'd  her  fortune, 
And  she  died  singing  it." 


Weeping    Willow.  91 


Our  immortal  bard,  whose  knowledge  of  florigraphy  was  as 
thorough  as  was  all  his  perceptions  of  things  affecting  the 
human  passions,  again  most  appropriately  introduces  this  em- 
blematic plant  into  the  scene  of  Ophelia's  death : 

**  There  is  a  willow  grows  aslant  the  brook, 
That  shows  his  hoar  leaves  in  the  glassy  stream ; 
There  with  fantastic  garland?  did  she  come, 
Of  crow-flowers,  nettles,  daisies,  and  long  purples, 
That  liberal  shepherds  give  a  grosser  name. 
But  our  cold  maids  do  dead  men's  fingers  call  them ; 
There  on  the  pendent  boughs  her  coronet  weeds 
Clambering  to  hang,  an  envious  sliver  broke ; 
"When  down  her  weedy  trophies  and  herself 
Fell  in  the  weeping  brook." 

In  that  most  exquisite,  lovely  scene  in  the  "  Merchant  of 
Venice,"  where  Jessica  and  Lorenzo  hold  sweet  conference, 
Shakspeare  yet  again  makes  use  of  this  plant  as  the  symbol  of 
unfortunate  love.  Lorenzo,  alluding  to  the  abandonment  of 
the  ill-treated  Carthaginian  queen  by  ^Eneas,  says  : 

**In  such  anight 
Stood  Dido,  with  a  willow  in  her  hand, 
Upon  the  wild  sea-banks,  and  waved  her  love 
To  come  again  to  Carthage." 

Numberless  other  excerpts  from  the  glowing  verse  of  "  Na- 
ture's child"  might  be  given  to  prove  that  he  regarded  the 
willow  as  the  emblem  of  grief;  but,  aci  bono?  His  worthy 
compatriot,  Michael  Drayton,  speaks  of  it  in  his  wreath  of 
typical  floralities,  the  "  Muses'  Elysium,"  thus : 

**  In  love,  the  sad  forsaken  wight 
The  willow  garland  weareth." 

Spenser  designates  it  as 

**  The  willow  worn  of  forlorn  paramours." 

Robert  Herrick,  in  that  medley  of  sweets  and  sours,  his 
"  Hesperides,"  has  two  beautiful  poems  respectively  addressed 
to  the  willow-tree  and  a  willow  garland.     The  first  runs  thus  : 

"Thou  art  to  all  lost  love  the  best,  **  When  once  the  lover's  rose  is  dead. 

The  only  true  plant  found ;  Or  laid  aside  forlorn, 

"Wherewith  young  men  and  maids  distrest.   Then  willow  garlands  'bout  the  head, 
And  left  of  love,  are  crowned.  Bedewed  with  tears,  are  worn. 


92  Weeping    Willow. 


"  ^Vhen  with  neglect,  the  lover's  bane,  "And  underneath  thy  cooling  shade, 

Poor  maids  rewarded  be  When  weary  of  the  light. 

For  their  love  lost,  their  only  gain  The  love-spent  youth  and  love-sick  maid 

Is  but  a  wreath  from  thee.  Come  to  weep  out  the  night." 

And  the  second  song  of  our  English  Anacreon  is  thus  quaintly 
worded : 

"A  willow  garland  thou  didst  send,  Me  wear  the  willow;  after  that 

Perfumed,  last  day,  to  me ;  To  die  upon  the  tree. 

Which  did  but  only 'this  portend :  c.  ^^  ^^^^^^  ^^to  the  altar  go 

^  I  was  forsook  by  thee.  ^i^l^  garlands  dressed,  so  I 

"Since  so  it  is,  I  '11  tell  thee  what :  Will  with  my  willow  wreath  also 

To-morrow  thou  shalt  see  Come  forth  and  sweetly  die." 

Churchill  alludes  to  the  ominous  character  of 

"The  willow,  weeping  o'er  the  fatal  wave, 
Where  many  a  lover  finds  a  watery  grave." 

As  already  seen,  the  ancient  Hebrews  assigned  the  same 
melancholy  signification  to  the  weeping  willow  as  do  the  mo- 
derns; to  the  Arabs  it  represents  the  same  sorrowful  meaning, 
and  they  have  a  singular  legend  to  account  for  its  origin.  This 
legend  is  founded  upon  the  story  of  Bathsheba,  and  corresponds 
to  a  certain  extent  with  the  biblical  account  of  how  she  became 
David's  wife  and  Solomon's  mother.  The  tradition  is  thus 
detailed :  One  morning  the  king  was  seated  as  usual  at  his 
harp,  composing  psalms,  when  he  perceived,  to  his  astonish- 
ment, two  strangers  seated  opposite  to  him  on  the  divan.  As 
strict  orders  were  issued  that  no  person .  should  be  admitted 
during  the  first  four  hours  of  the  day,  David  wondered  greatly 
how  the  strangers  had  gained  access  to  his  chamber.  They 
rose  and  begged  pardon  for  having  entered  unannounced,  be- 
cause they  had  an  urgent  complaint  to  lay  before  him.  David 
quitted  the  harp,  and  placed  himself  on  his  judgment-seat. 
*'  This  man,"  began  one  of  them,  ''  has  ninety-nine  sheep,  which 
plentifully  supply  all  his  wants ;  while  I,  poor  wretch,  had  but 
one,  that  was  my  joy  and  comfort,  and  that  one  he  has  taken 
forcibly  from  me."  At  the  mention  of  the  ninety-nine  sheep, 
David  could  not  help  thinking  of  the  flock  of  his  harem.  He 
recognized  in  the  strangers  two  angels  of  the  Lord,  and  was 
sensible  of  the  heinousness  of  his  offence.  Forthwith  he  threw 
himself  upon  the  floor  and  shed  tears  of  bitter  repentance. 
There  he  lay  for  forty  days  and  forty  nights  upon  his  face, 
weeping  and  trembling  before  the  judgment  of  the  Lord.    As 


Weeping    Willow. 


many  tears  of  repentance  as  the  whole  human  race  have  shed 
and  will  shed  on  account  of  their  sins  from  the  time  of  David 
till  the  Judgment  Day,  so  many  did  David  weep  in  those  forty 
days,  all  the  while  moaning  forth  psalms  of  penitence.  The 
tears  from  his  eyes  formed  two  streams,  which  ran  from  the 
room  into  the  garden.  Where  they  sank  into  the  ground 
sprang  up  two  trees,  the  weeping  willow  and  the  frankincense- 
tree.  The  first  weeps  and  mourns,  and  the  second  is  inces- 
santly shedding  big  tears  in  commemoration  of  the  sincere  re- 
pentance of  David. 

Hans  C.  Andersen,  whose  pathetic  stories,  il  written  for  the 
young,  never  fail  to  delight  children  of  a  larger  growth,  has  a 
most  affecting  tale  entitled  '*  Under  the  Willov/-Tree,"  in  which 
the  tree  plays  a  part  almost  human  in  its  interest.  He  is  a 
writer  who  frequently  avails  himself  of  the  poetic  imagery  which 
florigraphy  so  profusely  proffers. 

In  Wiffen's  translation  of  Garcillasso,  he  thus  renders  a 
sonnet,  in  which  the  Spanish  poet  dedicates  the  willow  to  his 
mistress : 

"For  Daphne's  laurel  Phcebus  gave  his  voice; 

The  towering  poplar  charmed  stern  Hercules ; 
The  myrtle  sweet,  whose  gifted  flowers  rejoice 

Young  hearts  in  love,  did  most  warm  Venus  please ; 
The  little  green  willow  is  my  Fledri's  choice : 

She  gathers  it  amidst  a  thousand  trees. 
Thus  laurel,  poplar,  and  sweet  myrtle  now, 
Where'er  it  grows,  shall  to  the  willow  bow. " 

Well  might  the  poet  speak  of  the  ''little  green  willow,"  for, 
as  Linnseus  remarks  of  the  herbaceous  willow,  "amongst  all 
trees  this  is  the  smallest."  Dr.  Clarke,  in  his  most  interesting 
"Norwegian  Travels,"  thus  introduces  this  fairy-like  treeling: 
"  We  soon  recognized  some  of  our  old  Lapland  acquaintances, 
such  as  Betula  nana,  with  its  minute  leaves  like  silver  pennies, 
mountain  birch,  and  the  dwarf  Alpine  species  of  willow,  of 
which  half  a  dozen  trees,  with  all  their  branches,  leaves,  flowers, 
and  roots,  might  be  compressed  within  two  of  the  pages  of  a 
lady's  pocket-book  v/ithout  coming  in  contact  with  each  other. 

"  After  our  return  to  England,  specimens  of  the  Salix  her- 
bacea  were  given  to  our  friends,  which,  when  framed  and  glazed, 
had  the  appearance  of  miniature  drawings.  The  author,  in  col- 
lecting them  for  his  herbary,  has  frequently  compressed  twenty 
of  these  trees  between  two  of  the  pages  of  a  duodecimo  volume." 


Asphodel. 

(I  WILL  BE   FAITHFUL   UNTO   DEATH.) 

""  I  ^HIS  symbol  of  love's  fidelity  was  anciently  dedicated  to 
X  the  memory  of  departed  souls,  and  in  Greece,  where  it  is 
still  very  common,  it  was  much  used  at  funeral  ceremonies  ;  it 
was  planted  around  the  tombs  of  the  deceased  ;  and  it  was 
believed  that  beyond  the  fatal  river,  Acheron,  the  shades  wan- 
dered in  a  vast  field  of  asphodels,  and  drank  forgetfulness  from 
Lethe's  dull  waters  of  oblivion.  The  flowers  of  the  asphodel 
produce  grains  with  which  it  was  thought  that  the  dead  were 
nourished.  Orpheus,  in  Pope's  splendid  "  Ode  for  St.  Cecilia's 
Day,"  conjures  the  infernal  deities 

**  By  the  streams  that  ever  flow, 
By  the  fragrant  winds  that  blow 

O'er  the  Elysian  flowers  ; 
By  those  happy  souls  who  dwell 
In  yellow  meads  of  asphodel, 
Or  amaranthine  bowers." 

We  have  as  old  an  authority  as  Homer  for  stating  that,  after 
having  crossed  the  Styx,  the  shades  passed  over  a  long  plain 
of  asphodels.  St.  Pierre,  in  his  beautiful  "  Harmonies  of  Na- 
ture," after  having  dwelt  with  some  earnestness  on  the  pro- 
priety of  planting  flowers  on  graves,  quotes  this  inscription, 
found  engraven  on  an  ancient  tomb  : 

^^  Au  dehors  je  suis  entoure  de  mauve  et  d''asphodele  set  au-dedans  je  ne 

siiis  qti^un  cadavre.^'' 

Mrs.  Browning  appears  to  have  entertained  a  partiality  for 
this  emblem,  she  mentions  it  so  frequently  in  her  deathless 
verse.  In  one  of  her  glorious  sonnets  from  the  Portuguese, 
into  which  she  has  imparted  more  beauties  than  the  originals 
possess,  she  thus  magnificiently  and  symbolically  introduces 
the  token  flower : 


Asphodel. 


95 


' '  My  own,  my  own, 
Who  earnest  to  me  when  the  world  was  gone, 

And  I,  who  only  looked  for  God,  found  thee ! 
I  find  thee;  I  am  safe,  and  strong,  and  glad. 

As  one  who  stands  in  dewless  asphodel 
Looks  backward  on  the  tedious  time  he  had 

In  the  upper  life,  so  I,  with  bosom  swell. 
Make  witness  here,  between  the  good  and  bad, 

That  love  as  strong  as  death  retrieves  as  well." 

In  his  "  Sensitive  Plant,"  Shelley  places  amongst  the  other 
dainty  plants  that  in  the  enchanted  garden  grew 

"Delicate  bells. 
As  fair  as  the  fabulous  asphodels." 

Milton  makes  use  of  this  floral  token  for  forming  the  couch 
of  our  first  parents  in  "  Eden's  guiltless  garden." 

In  the  German  Blumeiisprache  this  flower  signifies  everything 
shall  soon  be  revealed  to  you;  and  this  will  be  seen  to  be  a  most 
poetical  signification  when  it  is  remembered  that  the  asphodel 
is  dedicated  to  departed  souls,  to  whom  Death  does  indeed 
reveal  everything.  In  his  beautiful  ballad  of  the  "  King  of 
Thule,"  Gothe  has  finely  worked  out  this  idea  of  fidelity  unto 
death : 


"There  was  a  king  in  ThuI6, 
Who  unto  death  was  true ; 
To  whom  his  love  in  dying 
A  golden  goblet  threw, 

**At  ev'ry  feast  before  him 
The  golden  cup  was  set ; 
And  as  he  drank  came  o'er  him 
A  mist — his  eyes  were  wet. 

"And  when  his  life  was  closing, 
He  gave  his  cities  up ; 
He  gave  his  lands  and  castles. 
But  kept  his  dead  love's  cup. 


"  He  feasted  in  his  kingly  hall 
With  all  his  knights  around ; 
High  in  the  lordly  castle, 
That  o'er  the  ocean  frov/n'd. 

"  Uprose  the  olden  toper. 

And  life's  last  draught  did  drain, 
Then  threw  the  sacred  goblet 
Down  in  the  soaring  main. 

*'  He  saw  it  falling — drinking — 
And  sinking  in  the  sea ; 
His  eyelids  closed  for  ever, 
And  never  more  drank  i.e. '' 


-^m^^^ 


^^  ^^  fy 


Aloe. 

(BITTERNESS.) 

IF  ever  any  one  single  production  of  nature  was  intended  to 
supply  all  the  manifold  necessities  of  the  human  race,  the 
favourite  selected  for  that  purpose  was  most  assuredly  the  ^/<?^/ 
for  in  some  countries,  more  especially  in  Mexico,  it  provides 
for  nearly  every  want  that  flesh  is  heir  to,  not  the  least  of 
which  are  food  and  drink,  raiment,  decoration,  building  mate- 
rials, and  medicine  ;  indeed,  what  the  rose  is  amongst  plants 
for  beauty,  so  is  the  emblem  of  bitterness  for  utility;  and  he 
who  would  attempt  to  wade  through  all  that  has  been  written 
concerning  it  and  its  valuable  uses,  would  have  to  devote  a  life- 
time to  the  design.  Many  languages  of  flowers  have  selected 
this  interesting  plant  as  the  representative  oi grief ,  but  for  very 
trivial  reasons ;  and  its  adoption  as  the  symbol  of  bitterness 
will  be  found  on  examination  far  more  appropriate,  and,  indeed, 
far  more  ancient :  "  as  bitter  as  aloes  "  is  a  proverbial  expres- 
sion of  great  antiquity,  doubtless  derived  from  the  well-known 
acrid  taste  of  the  medicine  prepared  from  its  juices.  Chaucer 
alludes  to  this  bitterness  in  the  story  of  ''Troilus  and  Cres- 
sida,"  and  in  his  *'  Remedie  for  Love  "  he  speaks  of  its  sweet- 
ness ;  here,  however,  alluding  to  its  odour,  and  not  to  its  taste. 

The  great  antiquity  of  the  use  of  aloes  as  a  perfume  is  shown 
by  the  Bible:  "All  thy  garments,"  says  a  passage  in  the  Psalms, 
"smell  of  myrrh,  and  aloes,  and  cassia;"  and  in  the  Song  of 
Solomon  it  is  mentioned  as  one  of  the  chief  spices. 

Eastern  poets  invariably  speak  of  it  as  the  symbol  of  bitter- 
ness: "As  aloe  is  to  the  body,  so  is  affliction  to  the  soul:  bitter, 
very  bitter."  Alas !  alas  !  how  many  of  us,  regarding  this 
flower,  thus  can  adopt  it  as  our  emblem,  and  cry  out  with  Maud's 
lover: 


Aloe.  97 

"  Ah,  what  shall  I  be  at  fifty, 

Should  Nature  keep  me  alive? 
If  I  find  the  world  so  bitter 
When  I  am  but  twenty-five." 

How  few  can  turn  from  this  bitterness,  and  regard  our  chosen 
bloom,  as  Burckhardt  tells  us  the  Mahommedans  do,  as  the  em- 
blem oi  patience,  which,  indeed,  its  Arabic  name  of  saber  signi- 
fies !  In  the  neighbourhood  of  their  sacred  city,  Mecca,  this 
same  authority  states  that  at  the  extremity  of  almost  every 
grave,  on  a  spot  facing  the  epitaph,  is  planted  an  aloe,  as  an 
allusion  to  the  patience  which  it  is  necessary  for  us  to  exercise 
in  enduring  that  length  of  time  which  must  elapse  between 
now  and  the  great  day  of  resurrection. 

In  Edgar  Foe's  beautiful,  though  boyish,  poem  of  "Al 
Aaraaf,"  we  find  a  certain  species  of  aloe  represented  as  quite 
the  reverse  of  its  Oriental  florigraphical  meaning  of  patience ; 
for,  says  that  melodious  poet, 

*'  That  aspiring  flower  that  sprang  on  earth, 
And  died  ere  scarce  exalted  into  birth, 
Bursting  its  odorous  heart  in  spirit  to  wing 
Its  way  to  heaven  from  gardens  of  a  king. " 

The  flower  alluded  to  was  an  aloe  that  St.  Pierre  speaks  of  as 
cultivated  in  the  king's  garden  at  Paris.  Its  large  and  beautiful 
flower,  says  the  French  author,  exhales  a  strong  odour  of  the 
vanilla  during  the  time  of  its  expansion,  which  is  very  short. 
It  does  not  blow  till  towards  the  month  of  July ;  you  then 
perceive  it  gradually  open  its  petals,  expand  them,  fade,  and 
die.     Sic  transit  gloria  mundi. 

Elsewhere,  St.  Pierre,  speaking  of  the  aloe,  says,  "  Nature 
seems  to  have  treated  the  Africans  and  Asiatics  as  barbarians, 
in  having  given  them  these  at  once  magnificent  yet  monstrous 
vegetables ;  and  to  have  dealt  with  us  as  beings  capable  of 
sensibility  and  society.  Oh,  when  shall  I  breathe  the  perfume 
of  the  honeysuckle.'' — again  repose  myself  upon  a  carpet  of 
milk-weed,  saffron,  and  bluebells  t  —  once  more  hear  Aurora 
welcomed  with  the  songs  of  the  labourer  blessed  with  freedom 
and  content.-^"  From  the  specimens  of  the  aloe  seen  in  this 
country,  one  would  feel  inclined  to  fancy  that  its  utility  far 
surpassed  its  beauty ;  but  many  who  have  seen  it  growing  in 
its  native  land,  and  in  full  flower,  assert  that  its  elegance  and 
loveliness  are  only  rivalled  by  its  extraordinary  usefulness. 

7 


98  Aloe. 

The  larger  kinds  appear  pre-eminent  in  all  these  properties. 
Rousseau  speaks  of-  the  beauty  of  the  American  aloe,  or  agave, 
as  botanists  term  that  species.  St.  Pierre,  as  before  mentioned, 
speaks  of  its  large  and  beautiful  vanilla-scented  flowers,  and 
the  very  name  of  agave,  which  is  derived  from  the  Greek,  sig- 
nifies "admirable"  or  "glorious." 

In  Wood's  "Zoography,"  it  is  stated  that  the  Mahommedans, 
especially  those  resident  in  Egypt,  regard  the  aloe  as  a  sacred 
symbol,  and,  on  their  return  from  a  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  one 
of  their  holy  cities,  hang  it  over  the  street  door,  as  a  sign  that 
they  have  performed  that  religious  duty.  They  also  consider 
that  this  plant  scares  away  evil  spirits  and  apparitions  from 
entering  the  house  ;  and,  what  is  still  more  singular,  the  native 
Christians  and  Jews  share  the  superstition,  or  at  all  events 
participate  in  the  custom,  and  suspend  it  over  their  doorways, 
as  any  one  walking  through  the  streets  of  Cairo  may  perceive. 

The  aloe,  which,  owing  to  its  lofty  stem,  is  one  of  the  most 
gigantic  flowers  known,  until  recently  was  supposed  to  blossom 
only  once  in  a  century,  and  then  to  explode  with  the  noise  of  a 
cannon.  Modern  investigation  has  proved  the  fallacy  of  these 
once  popular  notions  ;  but,  true  it  is,  that,  although  in  hot 
climates  these  plants  will  flower  in  a  few  years,  in  these  colder 
countries  they  require  a  much  longer  space  of  time,  and  some, 
indeed,  never  attain  the  desirable  honour.  The  flowers  are 
mostly  of  a  greenish  yellow  colour,  continue  in  bloom  for  some 
months,  and  surmount  a  stalk  thirty  feet  high.  The  leaves, 
although  generally  of  a  dark  green,  are  sometimes  striped  with 
red,  white,  or  yellow.  Their  evergreen  nature  obtained  from 
our  ancestors  the  name  of  "  sea-ayegreene  "  for  the  plant. 

Of  the  leaves  of  the  aloe  are  made,  by  the  negroes  in  Sene- 
gal, excellent  ropes,  which  are  not  liable  to  rot  in  water,  and 
also  turn  the  plant  to  account  in  many  other  useful  ways ; 
whilst,  as  for  the  poor  in  Mexico,  they,  it  is  said,  derive  almost 
every  necessary  of  life  from  a  species  of  it.  They  call  this 
wonderful  production  ih^pite,  and  use  it,  says  Baron  Humboldt, 
as  a  substitute  for  the  hemp  of  Asia,  the  paper-reed  of  Egy^t, 
and  the  vine  of  Europe.  The  ancient  manuscripts  of  Mexico, 
which  have  so  excited  the  curiosity  of  the  learned,  and  afforded 
historians  and  antiquarians  so  much  knowledge  of  the  manners 
and  customs  of  that  persecuted  people,  are  chiefly  inscribed 


Aloe,  99 

upon  paper  made  from  the  fibres  of  the  pite.  In  the  time  of 
the  unfortunate  Montezuma,  thousands  of  persons  appear  to 
have  been  employed  in  the  production  of  "  picture-writings," 
as  Doctor  Robertson  justly  styles  these  hieroglyphics.  The 
Mexicans  still  carefully  cultivate  the  pit4,  on  account  of  an 
intoxicating  liquor  called  pidqiie,  which  is  prepared  from  the 
juice  of  its  flowers.  The  natives  are  accustomed  to  watch  so 
earnestly  for  the  blossoms  that,  it  is  asserted,  they  can  tell,  by 
invariable  signs,  the  very  hour  at  which  they  will  burst  into 
expansion.  Mr.  Ward  says,  "They  ascribe  to pidqite  as  many 
good  qualities  as  whisky  is  said  to  possess  in  Scotland." 

The  Abbe  la  Pluche  gives  some  interesting  particulars  of 
the  Chinese  aloe-tree.  He  informs  us  that  the  heart  of  the 
stem,  which  diffuses  a  powerful  fragrance,  is  called  calambac  in 
the  Indies,  and  is  deemed  more  precious  than  gold  :  it  is  used 
for  perfuming  the  apartments  and  garments  of  the  wealthy, 
and  is  also  used  as  a  setting  for  the  most  costly  jewels.  "  When 
the  Indians  purpose  to  honour  their  revered  deity,  the  devil, 
with  some  peculiar  testimonies  of  devotion,  they  perforate  the 
ears  with  nails  manufactured  from  this  plant."  The  immense 
size  of  the  aloe  and  its  slowness  of  growth  have  often  afforded 
our  poets  happy  allusions.  Campbell  styles  it  ''the  ever- 
lasting aloe." 


7—2 


Mezereon. 

(COQUETRY.) 

THE  genus  to  which  this  shrub  belongs  is  named  Daphne^ 
from  the  nymph  beloved  of  Apollo,  some  of  the  species 
greatly  resembling  the  bay,  into  which  tree  that  maid  was 
transformed.  The  most  beautiful  member  of  this  fragrant- 
leaved  family  is  the  Mezereon,  the  emblem  of  coquetry.  The 
stalk  of  this  bush  is  covered  with  a  dry  bark,  which  causes  it 
to  resemble  dead  wood  ;  but,  early  in  the  spring,  before  the 
leaves  appear,  it  bedecks  itself  with  garlands  of  red  flowers, 
wreathing  them  round  each  of  its  sprays,  and  terminating  each 
coquettish  curl  with  a  small  leafy  tuft.  Thus  it  is,  as  Cowper 
expresses  it, 

' '  Though  leafless,  well  attired,  and  thick  beset 
With  blushing  wreaths  investing  ev'ry  spray. " 

The  mezereon  is  very  sweet  scented  ;  and,  where  there  are 
many  near  each  other,  they  perfume  the  air  to  a  considerable 
distance.  It  is  said,  but  on  very  dubious  authority,  that  this 
fragrance  is  dangerous  to  human  beings. 

In  a  language  of  flowers  that  appeared  some  years  ago,  this 
shrub,  clothed  in  its  showy  garb,  was  amusingly  compared  to 
an  imprudent  and  coquettish  female,  who,  though  shivering  with 
cold,  wears  her  spring  attire  in  the  depth  of  winter.  Most  of 
the  European  languages  give  the  mezereon  a  name  equivalent 
to  female  bay. 

A  good  yellow  dye  is  extracted  from  its  branches,  and  a 
useful  and  valuable  medicine  from  its  bark.  The  berries,  which 
are  a  violent  poison,  are  yellow  on  the  white-flowered,  and  red 
on  the  peach-coloured  varieties. 

The  silvery-leaved  species  is  very  pretty.  Its  leaves  are 
white,  small,  soft,  and  shiny  as  satin  ;  between  them  blossom 
thick  clusters  of  white  bell-shaped  flowers,  tinged  inside  with 
yellow. 


Mezereon.  ioi 

Another  variety,  which  is  a  native  of  Jamaica,  is  known  as 
"lace-wood."  The  inner  bark  is  of  such  a  texture  that  it  may 
be  drawn  out  in  long  webs  like  lace,  and  has  been  actually 
worn  as  such.  Charles  11.  had  a  cravat  made  of  it,  which  Sir 
Thomas  Lynch,  when  Governor  of  Jamaica,  presented  to  him. 

It  is  sad,  but  too  true,  that  very  many  fair  daughters  of  Eve 
might  appropriately  adopt  this  flower  as  their  emblem  :  their 
conversation  is  prompted  by  no  deeper  feelings  than  that  lady 
whom  Mrs.  Browning  represents  as  saying 

**  *  Yes,'  I  answered  you  last  night; 
*  No, '  this  morning,  sir,  I  say. 
Colours  seen  by  candle-light 
Are  different  seen  by  day. 
When  the  viols  played  their  best, 

Lamps  above  and  laughs  below, 
Love  me  sounded  like  a  jest, 
Fit  iox  yes  or  fit  for  noy 

Alas  !  how  many  have  lived  to  find  that  loving  means  some- 
thing more  than  jesting!  Ladies  fair,  take  heed  in  time:  as 
for  male  coquettes,  although  they  have  been  heard  of  in  song, 
let  us  hope  that  such  despicable  creatures  as  they  would  be  are 
only  the  offspring  of  fiction. 

How  many  have  been  no  more  fortunate  in  their  wooing, 
when  wasting  their  time  on  a  heartless  coquette,  than  the  hero 
of  these  lines : 

**  We  met — alas  the  luckless  eve !  *  *  When  we  returned  and  joined  the   dance 

We  met — 'twas  at  the  county  ball;  Once  more  my  partner  she  became, 

And  straightway  she  a  web  did  weave,  And  gave  me  many  a  loving  glance, 

And  I  was  caught  within  the  thrall.  Till  my  young  heart  was  all  on  flame. 

We  danced;  my  heart  and  feet  kept  time,  And  when  she  left,  I  saw  her  down 

While  both  as  yet  remained  to  me ;  Into  the  carriage  at  the  door ; 

But  long  before  the  supper-time,  I  pressed  her  hand — she  did  not  frown, 

The  first  was  hers — the  latter  free.  And  so  I  muttered,  *"  Au  rez'oirV 

**Her  arm  on  mine,  we  went  downstairs;  "Next  day  I  called  in  eager  haste, 

I  happiest  of  '  creation's  lords.'  My  seeming  pleasant  suit  to  press : 

You  'd  thought  I  'd  ne'er  known  earthly  In  these  affairs  time  should  not  waste, 

cares  I  found  her  in,  as  you  might  guess. 

To  see  me  trip  across  the  boards.  My  lady  in,  my  love  I  told. 

We  found  our  seats ;  I  close  beside  her,  When  she,  her  pretty  face  averting, 

With  no  grim  mamma  vis-a-vis,  Replied  in  studied  accents  cold, 

To  watch  how  I  with  whispers  plied  'Well,  truly,  sir,  I  was  but7fw'//«^.'"* 
her, 

Or  note  how  oft  she  smiled  on  me.  John  Ingram. 


Sensitive  Plant. 

(BASHFUL  LOVE.) 

THIS  delicate  emblem  of  bashfichiess  is  a  member  of  the 
mimosa  family,  and  in  its  native  home  is  said  to  grow  to 
a  considerable  size,  although  here  it  is  a  mere  hothouse  plant. 
Its  remarkable  susceptibility  to  touch  is  stated  to  increase  in 
proportion  with  the  tenderness  of  its  nature.  A  writer,  ad- 
verting to  this  statement,  remarks  that  in  the  plant  this  nervous 
sensibility  is  encouraged  for  its  singularity.  *'  It  is  a  pity,"  the 
lady  pointedly  adds,  "  there  should  not  be  the  same  reason  for 
encouraging  it  in  the  human  species."  What,  O  gentle  reader, 
more  sensitive  to  contact  with  the  outer  world  than  that  shy 
receptacle  of  a  thousand  soft  emotions  —  the  human  heart } 
And  yet,  alas  !  what  numberless  rebuffs  it  is  continually  re- 
ceiving from  careless  mortals  !  How  much  joy  or  pain  a  care- 
less word,  a  slighting  look,  may  repress  or  cause  !  How  many 
sensitive  minds  have  recoiled  from  a  slight,  given  more  from 
want  of  thought  than  want  of  heart !  Pity  and  spare  that  bash- 
fulness  which  you  so  frequently  misjudge,  O  heedless  world  ! 
and  grant  this  prayer : 

"Speak  kindly,  oh,  speak  kindly;  The  value  can't  be  counted 

You  cannot  tell  the  worth  Or  measured  out  by  plan. 

Of  words  of  loving-kindness  Of  words  of  kindness  spoken 

In  our  journey  through  the  earth.  From  man  to  brother  man !" 

Ella  Ingram. 

The  sensitive  plant  is  one  of  those  eccentric  productions  of 
nature,  whose  phenomena  the  knowledge  of  man  has  not  been 
enabled  satisfactorily  to  explain  :  its  leaves,  when  touched  by 
any  external  object,  fold  up  and  shrink  modestly  from  contact. 
Our  old  pastoral  poet,  W.  Browne,  alludes  to  its  peculiarities 
thus : 

**  Look  at  the  feeling-plant,  which  learned  swains 
Relate  to  grow  on  the  East  Indian  plains. 
Shrinks  up  his  dainty  leaves  if  any  sand 
You  throw  thereon,  or  touch  it  with  your  hand." 


Sensitive  Plant.  103 


Matthew  Prior  alludes  to  the  diversity  of  opinion  as  to  what 
causes  this  phenomenon : 

*'  Whence  does  it  happen  that  the  plant,  which  well 
We  name  the  *  sensitive, '  should  move  and  feel  ? 
Whence  know  her  leaves  to  answer  her  command, 
And  with  quick  horror  fly  the  neighbouring  hand?" 

Darwin,  the  author  of  the  "Loves  of  the  Plants,"  endea- 
voured to  account  for  the  strange  dislike  this  plant  exhibits  to 
the  touch  of  foreign  objects  ;  but  his  explanations  were  not 
very  convincing.  His  lines  upon  another  of  its  habits,  that  of 
contracting  towards  evening  and  expanding  when  morning 
dawns,  are  more  alluring  : 

*' Weak,  witli  nice  sense,  the  chaste  mimosa  stands; 
From  each  rude  touch  withdraws  her  timid  hands. 
Oft,  as  light  clouds  pass  o'er  the  Summer's  glade, 
Alarm 'd,  she  trembles  at  the  moving  shade. 
And  feels  alive  through  all  her  tender  form 
The  whisjDcr'd  murmurs  of  the  gathering  storm  ; 
Shuts  her  sweet  eyelids  to  approaching  night. 
And  hails  with  freshen'd  charms  the  rosy  light." 

There  is  one  most  remarkable  member  of  this  extraordinary 
family,  known  as  the  "friendly-tree,"  which  droops  its  branches 
whenever  any  person  approaches  it,  seeming  as  if  it  saluted 
those  who  sought  retreat  beneath  its  sheltering  boughs.    Moore 

"  That  courteous  tree, 
Which  bows  to  all  who  seek  its  canopy." 

Shelley's  sweet  characteristic  poem  of  "The  Sensitive  Plant  " 
is  well  known ;  but  a  few  of  its  blossoms  will  not  lose  aught 
of  their  ethereal  grace  by  reproduction  here : 

*'A  sensitive  plant  in  a  garden  grew. 
And  the  young  winds  fed  it  with  silver  dew. 
And  it  opened  its  fan-like  leaves  to  the  light. 
And  closed  them  beneath  the  kisses  of  night. 

**And  the  Spring  arose  on  the  garden  fair. 
And  the  spirit  of  love  fell  everywhere ; 
And  each  flower  and  herb  on  earth's  dark  breast 
Rose  from  the  dreams  of  its  wintry  rest. 

**  But  none  ever  trembled  and  panted  with  bliss, 
In  the  garden,  the  field,  or  the  wilderness, 
Like  a  doe  in  the  noontide,  with  love's  sweet  want, 
As  the  companionless  sensitive  plant. 


I04  Sensitive  Plant. 


"For  each  was  interpenetrated 
With  the  hght  and  odour  its  neighbour  shed, 
Like  young  lovers  whom  youth  and  love  make  dear, 
Wrapped  and  filled  with  their  mutual  atmosphere. 

"But  the  sensitive  plant,  which  could  give  small  fruit 
Of  the  love  which  it  felt  from  the  leaf  to  the  root, 
Received  more  than  all,  it  loved  more  than  ever, 
Where  none  wanted  but  it,  could  belong  to  the  giver — 

*'For  the  sensitive  plant  has  no  bright  flower; 
Radiance  and  odour  are  not  its  dower ; 
It  loves,  even  like  Love,  its  deep  heart  is  full. 
It  desires  what  it  has  not — the  beautiful ! 

*'The  sensitive  plant  was  the  earliest 
Upgathered  into  the  bosom  of  rest ; 
A  sweet  child  weary  of  its  delight. 
The  feeblest  and  yet  the  favourite, 
Cradled  within  the  embrace  of  night." 

The  sad  ending  of  "this  strange  eventful  history"  who 
knows  not?  How  the  lady  who  was  the  ''ruling  grace"  of 
this  sweet  garden,  "  ere  the  first  leaf  looked  brown  'neath 
Autumn's  kisses,  passed  from  this  life  away,"  and  how  the 
neglected  flowers  faded,  ''  leaf  after  leaf,  day  by  day,  until  all 
were  massed  into  the  common  clay  "  ?  while 

"The  sensitive  plant,  like  one  forbid, 
Wept,  and  the  tears  within  each  lid 
Of  its  folded  leaves  which  together  grew. 
Were  changed  to  a  blight  of  frozen  glue. 

**For  the  leaves  soon  fell,  and  the  branches  sooa 
By  the  heavy  axe  of  the  blast  were  hewn ; 


And  finally 


The  sap  shrank  to  the  root  through  every  pore, 
As  blood  to  a  heart  that  will  beat  no  more. " 


"When  Winter  had  gone  and  Spring  came  back, 
The  sensitive  plant  was  a  leafless  wreck." 


Heaven  guard  the  human  sensitive  plant  from  such  a  fate  ! 

Shelley  only  dowers  the  subject  of  his  verse  with  love, 
and  denies  it  odour  as  well  as  beauty ;  but  travellers  affirm, 
that  in  Brazil,  where  it  is  common,  it  grows  to  a  size  almost 
colossal,  and  diffuses  a  most  delicious  perfume.  Dr.  Clarke 
says  that  frankincense,  that  most  fragrant  of  odours,  is  the 
product  of  the  Egyptian  mimosa.  The  acanthus-tree  spoken 
of  by  Theophrastus  and  Virgil  is  supposed  to  be  a  species  of 
this  latter  mimosa. 


B  UTTERCUPS. 

(RICHES.— MEMORIES    OF    CHILDHOOD.) 

BEAUTIFULLY  does  our  great  poet,  Robert  Browning, 
call  these  emblems  of  riches,  "the  buttercitps,  the  little 
children's  dower."  Of  all  the  mingled  sad  and  sweet  memories 
of  childhood,  what  is  recalled  more  vividly  than  that  feeling  of 
being  the  possessor  of  boundless  wealth,  as,  amid  the  glowing 
fields  of  gold  which  these  wild  flowers  spread  around  us,  we 
have — to  quote  from  Eliza  Cook — 

'*  Stood  like  an  elf  in  fairy  lands, 
With  a  wide  and  wistful  stare  ; 
As  a  maiden  over  her  casket  stands, 
'Mid  heaps  of  jewels  beneath  her  hands, 
Uncertain  which  to  wear  !  " 

This  same  lady,  in  some  pathetic  and  appropriate  lines,  re- 
calling childhood's  faded  glories,  sweetly  introduces  this  floral 
reminder : 

**'Tis  sweet  to  love  in  childhood,  when  the  souls  that  we  bequeath 
Are  beautiful  in  freshness  as  the  coronals  we  wreathe ; 
When  we  feed  the  gentle  robin,  and  caress  the  leaping  hound, 
And  linger  latest  on  the  spot  where  buttercups  are  found  : 
When  we  seek  the  bee  and  ladybird  with  laughter,  shout,  and  song. 
And  think  the  day  for  wooing  them  can  never  be  too  long. 
Oh !  't  is  sweet  to  love  in  childhood,  and  tho'  stirr'd  by  meanest  things, 
The  music  that  the  heart  yields  then  will  never  leave  its  strings. 

^•^  'T  is  sweet  to  love  in  after  years  the  dear  one  by  our  side ; 
To  dote  with  all  the  mingled  joys  of  passion,  hope,  and  pride ; 
To  think  the  chain  around  our  breast  will  hold  still  warm  and  fast ; 
And  grieve  to  know  that  death  must  come  to  break  the  link  at  last. 
But  when  the  rainbow  span  of  bliss  is  waning,  hue  by  hue ; 
When  eyes  forget  their  kindly  beams,  and  lips  become  less  true ; 
When  stricken  hearts  are  pining  on  through  many  a  lonely  hour, 
Who  would  not  sigh  '  't  is  safer  far  to  love  the  bird  and  flower '  ? 


io6  Buttercups. 


'"Tis  sweet  to  love  in  ripen'd  age  the  trumpet  blast  of  Fame, 
To  pant  to  live  on  Glory's  scroll,  though  blood  may  trace  the  name  ; 
'T  is  sweet  to  love  the  heap  of  gold,  and  hug  it  to  our  breast, — 
To  trust  it  as  the  guiding  star  and  anchor  of  our  rest. 
But  such  devotion  will  not  serve — however  strong  the  zeal — 
To  overthrow  the  altar  where  our  childhood  loved  to  kneel. 
Some  bitter  moment  shall  o'ercast  the  sun  of  wealth  and  power, 
And  then  proud  man  would  fain  go  back  to  worship  bird  and  flower." 

Under  the  antique  names  of  crow-foot,  king-cup,  gold-cup, 
and  other  quaint  but  suggestive  titles,  these  flowers  were  for- 
merly much  praised,  but  latterly  our  poets  have  neglected 
them  for  other  blooms  ;  still,  however,  it  must  be  confessed, 
notwithstanding  the  more  elaborate  beauty  of  garden  flowers^ 
generally  awarding  their  tribute  to  the  wildings  of  nature. 
Shakspeare's  "cuckoo-buds  of  yellow"  are  supposed  to  be 
buttercups,  for  they  "  do  paint  the  meadows  with  delight,"  and 
spread  out  before  our  enraptured  gaze  a  glittering  Field  of 
Cloth  of  Gold,  whereon  fays  might  well  hold  their  elfin  tour- 
neys, and  fairy  queens  .keep  festive  court. 
'  Poor  Clare  frequently  introduced  this  wild  flower  into  his 
pictures  of  rural  life,  and  in  one  of  his  poems  makes  it  serve 
as  a  goblet  for  the  fays  :  in  his  "Village  Minstrel,"  he  combines 
the  buttercup  with  its  almost  invariable  companion  in  poesy, 
the  daisy : 

**  Before  the  door,  with  paths  untraced, 
The  green  sward  many  a  beauty  graced ; 
And  daisy  there,  and  cowslip  too, 
And  buttercups  of  golden  hue." 

Eliza  Cook  has  given  us  a  poem  to  "Buttercups  and  Daisies," 
beginning — 

**  I  never  see  a  young  hand  hold 
The  starry  bunch  of  white  and  gold, 
But  something  warm  and  fresh  will  start 
About  the  region  of  my  heart. " 

Wordsworth  is  another  of  the  few  English  poets  who  have 
deigned  to  sing  the  beauties  of  the 

*'  Buttercups  that  will  be  seen, 
Whether  we  will  see  or  no." 

In  former  times   the  round  bulbous  root  of  these  flowers 
procured  them  the  name  of  "  St.  Anthony's  turnips." 


Crocus. 

(CHEERFULNESS.) 

ACCORDING  to  some  authors,  these  bright  little  flowers, 
which 

'  *  Come  before  the  swallow  dares, 
And  take  the  wmds  of  March  with  beauty," 

derive  their  name  from  a  Greek  word  signifying  thread,  from, 
the  fact  of  the  thread  or  filament  being  in  such  request  for 
saffron  dye ;  but  the  ancient  legend  affirms  that  it  was  styled 
■  Crocus  after  an  unhappy  lover,  whom  the  gods  in  pity  changed 
into  the  flower  that  now  bears  his  name.  There  has  been 
much  controversy  as  to  the  first  introduction  of  this  plant  into 
England,  but  it  is  generally  supposed  that  Sir  Thomas  Smith, 
who  brought  it  with  him  from  the  continent  in  Edward  III.'s 
reign,  was  its  earliest  importer,  and  that  Saffron  Walden,  in 
Cambridgeshire,  was  the  place  where  it  was  first  cultivated. 

In  Hakluyt's  voyages,  the  first  introduction  of  saffron — the 
autumn  crocus — is  ascribed  to  a  pilgrim  who,  with  the  desire 
of  serving  his  country,  stole  a  head  of  saffron,  and  concealed 
it  in  his  staff;  but  this  is  spoken  of  only  as  a  tradition  told 
by  the  folks  at  Saffron  Walden.  It  is  stated  that  the  cor- 
poration of  Walden  bear  three  saffron  plants  in  their  coat  of 
arms. 

The  golden  dye  obtained  from  the  pistils  of  this  flower  in 
former  times  was  held  in  great  regard  by  the  Irish  peasantry, 
and  became  at  last  quite  an  emblem  of  their  oppressed  nation- 
ality :  as  such  the  colour  was  very  obnoxious  to  the  English 
Government,  and,  finally,  they  passed  laws  against  its  use. 
One  of  these  injunctions,  issued  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIIL, 
prohibited  the  colouring  of  the  long  lock  of  hair  called  glihbes 
with  saffron  dye. 


io8  Crocus. 

It  has  been  observed  of  the  rich  tint  obtained  from  this 
plant  that  there  is  nothing  analogous  to  it  in  nature  excepting 
the  hue  of  morn  : 

"  How  when  the  rosy  mom  begins  to  rise, 
And  wave  her  saffron  streamers  through  the  skies." 

Saffron  was  formerly  much  used  in  medicines,  but  modern 
discovery  has  enabled  us  to  dismiss  it  from  our  pharmacopaeia, 
as  also  from  the  laboratory  of  the  manufacturer's  chemist, 
more  permanent  dyes  having  supplied  its  place.  It  still,  how- 
ever, retains  its  post  at  the  confectioner's,  where  its  use  must 
have  been  well  known  as  long  ago  as  Shakspeare's  days,  since 
we  find  the  clown  in  the  "  Winter's  Tale,"  when  enumerating 
the  articles  he  has  for  sale,  speaks  of  "saffron  to  colour  the 
warden  pies." 

Virgil  alludes  to  the  fondness  of  bees  for  "the  glowing 
crocus,"  as  also  does  Moore — to  pass  to  modern  times — in  his 
"Lalla  Rookh": 

"The  busiest  hive 
On  Bela's  hills  is  less  alive, 
When  saffron-beds  are  full  in  flower, 
Than  look'd  the  valley  in  that  hour." 


Mrs.  Howitt  says  of  the  purple  crocus : 


*'  Like  lilac  flame  its  colour  glows, 

Tender  and  yet  so  clearly  bright. 
That  all  for  miles  and  miles  about 
The  splendid  meadow  shineth  out ; 
And  far-off  village  children  shout 

To  see  the  welcome  sight. " 

Miss  Pratt,  in  one  of  her  floral  works,  remarks  upon  the 
abundance  of  the  purple  variety  of  this  flower  in  the  vicinity 
of  Nottingham  :  "  There  the  lands  which  it  adorns  are  like 
radiant  spots,  compared  with  which  the  other  meadows  seem 
almost  colourless.  Its  full-blown  cups  stand  open  to  invite 
the  spring  butterfly  to  his  regale,  or  the  diligent  bee  to  add  to 
the  store  which  he  is  gathering  for  others.  Not  one  little  up- 
land or  dell  of  these  meadows  but  is  covered  with  the  daisy 
and  the  crocus.  Every  hedge  violet  that  there  expands  seems 
of  a  darker  hue  by  its  contrast ;  and  never  does  cowslip  or 
primrose  better  merit  its  long-worn  epithet  of  pale  than  when 
either  the  sunny  or  blue  crocus  stands  beside  it" 


Crocus.  109 

In  Greece  this  same  floral  belle  grows  in  great  profusion, 
covering  the  hill-sides  with  one  beaming  sheet  of  blue  or  gold, 
often  colouring  the  landscape  for  many  miles. 

Saffron  is  still  highly  valued  by  Eastern  nations,  and  by 
them  is  used  for  manifold  purposes.  Letters  of  invitation  to 
the  gorgeous  nuptial  or  other  entertainments  in  which  rich 
Orientals  delight,  are  written  upon  paper  flowered  with  gold 
and  sprinkled  with  saffron.  They  also  extract  a  very  beautiful 
yellow  from  the  crocus,  which  they  use  for  the  purpose  of  dye- 
ing. In  the  more  unsophisticated  villages  of  Greece,  saffron 
is  sold  by  the  weight  of  a  hen's  ^^^,  and  so  simple  are  these 
dealings  that  it  makes  no  difference  in  the  terms  whether  the 
^gg  be  large  or  small — so  travellers  report. 

The  following  lines  allude  to  the  phenomena  of  the  different 
times  of  flowering  invariably  observed  by  the  vernal  and  au- 
tumnal crocus  : 

"Say  what  impels,  amid  surrounding  snow 
Congeal'd,  the  crocus'  flaming  bud  to  glow  ?     , 
Say,  what  retards,  amidst  the  Summer's  blaze, 
Th'  Autumnal  bulb,  till  pale,  declining  days? 

**The  God  of  Seasons,  whose  pervading  power 
Controls  the  sun  or  sheds  the  fleecy  shower  : 
He  bids  each  flow'r  His  quick'ning  word  obey, 
Or  to  each  lingering  bloom  enjoins  decay. " 


Eglantine. 

(POETRY.) 

DEEMED  by  professors  of  the  language  of  flowers  em- 
blematical of  that  indescribable  something  which,  for 
want  of  a  better  name,  we  agree  to  call  Poetry,  the  Eglantine 
should  indeed  find  favour  with  the  votaries  of  that  gentle 
art ;  and,  might  we  reckon  the  value  of  their  esteem  for  it  by 
the  number  of  sweet  things  they  have  said  about  it,  we  could 
put  a  high  price  upon  its  beauties.  What  wooer  of  the  Muses 
has  neglected  to  pay  his  passing  tribute  to  the  sweet-leaved 
eglantine? — "the  rain-scented  eglantine;"  "the  sweet,  the 
fresh,  the  fair," — the  eglantine  to  which  the  sun  himself  pays 
homage,  by  "  counting  his  dewy  rosary  "  on  it  every  morning. 

This  flower  is  indeed  emphatically  the  poet's  flower,  and  in 
the  floral  games  was  the  prize  awarded  him  for  his  success. 
Ronsard,  whom  the  elder  D' Israeli  styles  the  French  Chaucer, 
was  the  first  who  carried  off"  this  well-earned  booty.  "  The 
meed  of  poetic  honour,"  says  the  above-quoted  authority,  "was 
an  eglantine  composed  of  silver.  The  reward  did  not  appear 
equal  to  the  merit  of  the  work  and  the  reputation  of  the  poet ; 
and  on  this  occasion  the  city  of  Toulouse  had  a  Minerva  of 
solid  silver  struck  of  considerable  value.  This  image  was  sent 
to  Ronsard,  accompanied  by  a  decree  in  which  he  was  declared, 
by  way  of  eminence,  *  The  French  Poet.'  " 

As  a  pendant  to  this  fact,  so  honourable  to  all  concer«ned, 
D'Israeli  relates  that  when  "at  a  later  period,  a  similar  Mi- 
nerva was  adjudged  to  Maynard  for  his  verses,  the  capitouls  of 
Toulouse,  who  were  the  executors  of  the  floral  gifts,  to  their 
eternal  shame,  out  of  covetousness,  never  obeyed  the  decision 
of  the  poetical  judges."  This  circumstance  is  noticed  by 
Maynard  in  an  epigram  which  bears  this  title  :  "  On  a  Minerva 
of  silver,  promised  but  not  given^ 


"cHU'tti   ■(B1V 


Eglantine.  hi 


The  honeysuckle,  or  woodbine,  symboHc  of  generous  and 
devoted  affection,  is  frequently  mistaken  even  by  the  poets 
themselves — to  their  shame  be  it  said — for  the  eglantine,  or 
sweetbriar,  as  it  is  sometimes  called  :  even  Milton  appears  to 
fall  into  this  error  when  he  speaks  of  "  the  twisted  eglantine.'* 
Where  the  English  Homer  nods,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at 
if  lesser  mortals,  headed  by  Scott,  the  Wizard  of  the  North, 
prove  less  wakeful ;  and  so  we  have  to  turn  to  Shakspeare,  the 
righter  of  all  wrongs,  to  put  us  right  anew.     He  tells  us  : 

**  I  know  a  bank  whereon  the  wild  thyme  blows, 
Where  oxlip  and  the  nodding  violet  grows  ; 
Quite  over-canopied  with  luscious  woodbine, 
With  sweet  musk  roses,  and  with  eglantine. " 

An  almost  forgotten  friend  and  contemporary  of  the  great 
dramatist,  and  a  very  sweet  poet  withal,  Richard  Barnfield  by 
name,  puts  this  dainty  invitation  into  the  mouth  of  the  "  Love- 
lorn Shepherdess  " : 

**  And  in  the  sweltering  heat  of  vSummer-time, 
I  would  make  cabinets  for  thee,  my  love  ; 
Sweet-smelling  arbours  made  of  eglantine, 

Should  be  thy  shrine,  and  I  would  be  thy  dove." 

As  the  lily  is  usually  coupled  with  the  rose,  or  the  myrtle 
with  the  bay,  so  is  the  woodbine  ofttimes  mingled  with  the 
eglantine  in  poetic  invocations ;  and  thus  does  Shenstone 
make  particular  mention  of  this  fragrant  pair : 

**  Come,  gentle  air !  and  while  the  thickets  bloom, 
Convey  the  jasmine's  breath  divine. 
Convey  the  woodbine's  rich  perfume, 
Nor  spare  the  sweet-leafed  eglantine." 

And  then  Keats — "Lamented  Adonais" — says: 

*'Its  sides  I'll  plant  with  dew-sweet  eglantine, 
And  honeysuckles  full  of  clear  bee  wine." 

Chaucer,  in  "The  Flower  and  the  Leaf,"  describes  a  plea- 
sant arbour  formed  of  eglantine ;  whilst  one  of  the  sweetest 
stanzas  in  the  "  Faerie  Queene  "  gave  Spenser  an  opportunity 
of  portraying  "the  fragrant  eglantine." 


Heliotrope. 

(DEVOTED     ATTACHMENT.) 

THIS  flower,  sweet  as  its  florigraphical  meaning,  received 
its  usual  name  of  Heliotrope  from  two  Greek  words, 
signifying  the  sn7i  and  to  tur7i,  because  of  its  having  been  sup- 
posed to  turn  continually  towards  the  sun,  following  his  course 
round  the  horizon.  In  consequence  of  this  belief,  the  ancients 
ascribed  its  origin  to  the  death  of  the  hapless  Clytie,  who 
pined  away  in  hopeless  love  of  the  sun-god  Apollo.  Ovid — 
as  translated  by  Sandy — tells  the  woful  story  thus : 

"She  with  distracted  passion  pines  away; 
Detesteth  company;  all  night,  all  day 
Disrobed,  with  her  ruffled  hair  unbound, 
And  wet  with  humour,  sits  upon  the  ground  : 
For  nine  long  days  all  sustenance  forbears  ; 
Her  hunger  cloyed  with  dew,  her  thirst  with  tears : 
Nor  rose ;  but  rivets  on  the  god  her  eyes,  ■ 

And  ever  turns  her  face  to  him  that  flies. 
At  length  to  earth  her  stupid  body  cleaves ; 
Her  wan  complexion  turns  to  bloodless  leaves. 
Yet  streak'd  with  red,  her  perish'd  limbs  beget 
A  flower  resembling  the  pale  violet. 
Which  with  the  sun,  though  rooted  fast,  doth  move, 
And  being  changed,  changeth  not  her  love." 

The  tale  may  have  been  told  with  more  poetical  adornments 
than  the  old  translator  has  given  it,  but  as  tfie  incident  and 
the  moral  is  what  is  required,  that  may  be  overlooked  for  once. 

The  Peruvian  heliotrope  is  chiefly  admired  for  its  unsur- 
passed fragrance.  Although  not  a  showy  plant,  it  is  delicate 
and  sweet  as  the  sentiment  it  interprets.  The  blossom  is  very 
small,  of  a  faint  purple  colour,  sometimes  inclining  to  white, 
and  sheds  an  almond-like  perfume,  or,  as  some  prosaic  persons 
say,  an  odour  like  that  of  a  cherry  pie !  This  species  was 
discovered  by  Jussieu,  the  celebrated  botanist,  whilst  bota- 
nizing in  the  Cordilleras.  One  day  when  gathering  plants,  he 
suddenly  found  himself  overpowered  by  an  intense  perfume. 
Looking  round  to  see  from  what  gorgeous  child  of  Flora  this 


Helio  tr  ope.  '  113 


odour  proceeded,  he  could  discover  nothing  but  some  light 
green  shrubs,  the  tips  of  whose  elegant  sprays  were  decked 
with  faint  purple  blossom.  Finding  on  inspection  that  all 
these  tiny  florets  turned  towards  the  sun,  Jussieu  gave  the 
plant  the  name  of  Heliotrope,  and  collecting  some  of  the  seeds, 
forwarded  them  to  the  royal  garden  at  Paris,  where  in  1740 
the  heliotrope  was  first  cultivated.  It  spread  into  all  the  coun- 
tries'of  Europe,  and  from  its  delicious  scent  soon  became  an 
especial  favourite  with  the  ladies. 

St.  Pierre,  in  his  exquisite  "  Studies  of  Nature,"  speaking  of 
this  plant,  says  :  "  The  Chrysanthemuin  Peruvianum — or,  to 
employ  a  better-known  term,  the  Turnsol — which  turns  con- 
tinually towards  the  sun,  covers  itself,  like  Peru,  the  countr), 
from  which  it  comes,  with  dewy  clouds,  which  cool  and  refresh 
its  flowers  during  the  most  violent  heat  of  the  day." 

To  the  Canary  heliotrope  florists  gave  the  name  of  "  Ma- 
dame de  Maintenon,"  in  flattery,  it  is  supposed,  to  Louis  XIV., 
as  the  sun  to  which  his  favourite  lady  always  turned  her  eyes. 

Is  it  not  this  flower  that  Moore  is  thinking  of  when  he  so 
fancifully  says 

"She,  enamoured  of  the  sun, 
At  his  departure  hangs  her  head  and  weeps, 
And  shrouds  her  sweetness  up,  and  keeps 

Sad  vigils  hke  a  cloister'd  nun, 
Till  his  reviving  ray  appears, 
Waking  her  beauty  as  he  dries  her  tears  "? 

An  anonymous  poet  has  deduced  from  this  flower  a  meaning 
which,  though  given  here,  is  quite  the  reverse  of  that  assigned 
to  it  by  florigraphists  : 

**  There  is  a  flower,  whose  modest  eye       "Let  clouds  obscure,  or  darkness  veil. 
Is  turned  with  looks  of  light  and  love ;       Her  fond  idolatry  is  fled ; 
"Who  breathes  her  sweetest,  softest  sigh,      Her  sighs  no  more  their  sweets  exhales 
Whene'er  the  sun  is  bright  above.  The  loving  eye  is  cold  and  dead. 

"  Canst  thou  not  trace  a  moral  here. 

False  flatterer  of  the  prosperous  hour  ?  ^ 

Let  but  an  adverse  cloud  appear, 

And  thou  art  faithless  as  the  flower." 


8 


Lilac. 

(LOVE'S     FIRST     EMOTIONS). 

THIS  attractive  and  yet  unobtrusive  flower  is  well  worthy 
of  being  selected  to  emblernise  loves  first  emotions. 
Bursting  into  a  profusion  of  fragrant  bouquet-shaped  blossoms 
just  at  that  delightful  season  of  the  year  when  all  nature, 
aroused  from  its  long  wintry  slumber,  decks  itself  with  smiles 
and  blushes,  the  Lilac  could  scarcely  escape  being  chosen 
by  the  observant  eyes  of  poet  and  lover  as  a  symbol  of  those 
indescribable  feelings  of  joy  which  bloom  into  being  when 
*'  Love's  young  dream  "  first  bashfully  manifests  itself 

It  is  alleged  that  when  Van  Spaendoul,  the  celebrated  Dutch 
flower  painter,  was  shown  a  group  of  lilacs,  he  flung  down  his 
pencil,  as  if  acknowledging  his  inability  to  portray  a  produc- 
tion in  every  respect  so  harmonious  and  unapproachable. 

Of  the  three  varieties  of  this  shrub,  the  blue,  the  violet,  and 
the  white  have  been  thus  prettily  described  :  "  Nature  seems 
to  have  delighted  in  making  a  finished  production  of  each  of 
their  delicate  clusters,  massive  in  themselves,  and  yet  asto- 
nishing by  their  variety  and  beauty.  The  gradation  of  their 
tints,  from  the  first  purplish  bud  to  the  blanching  flower,  is 
the  smallest  fascination  of  their  charming  blossoms,  round 
which  the  rainbow  seems  to  revel  and  to  dissolve  into  a  hun- 
dred shades  and  colours,  which,  commingling  in  the  general 
tone  and  hue,  produce  a  happy  harmony  that  might  well 
baflle  the  painter  and  confound  the  observer." 

Lilac,  or  lilag — a  Persian  word  signifying  "  flower  "-^is  sup- 
posed to  have  been  introduced  into  Europe  from  Persia  early 
in  the  sixteenth  century  by  Busbeck,  a  German  traveller. 

In  1597,  Gerarde  says,  ''  I  have  them  growing  in  my  garden 
in  great  plenty." 

Mrs.  Sigourney,  in  allusion  to  its  native  land,  addresses  it : 


Lilac.  115 

** Lilac  of  Persia!     Tell  us  some  fine  tale 
Of  Eastern  lands  ;  we  're  fond  of  travellers. 
Have  you  no  legends  of  some  sultan  proud, 
Or  old  fire-M^orshipper  ?     What !  not  one  note 
Made  on  your  voyage?     Well,  'tis  wondrous  strange 
That  you  should  let  so  rare  a  chance  pass  by, 
While  those  who  never  journeyed  half  so  far 
Fill  sundry  volumes,  and  expect  the  world 
To  reverently  peruse  and  magnify 
What  it  well  knew  before !  " 

Thomson,  in  his  "  Seasons,"  could  not  of  course  overlook 
this  flower,  and  in  ^*  Spring,"  thus  tunes  his  lyre  to  hymn  its 
praise : 

"Shrubs  there  are, 
.     That  at  the  call  of  Spring 
Burst  forth  in  blossom'd  fragrance  ;  lilacs,  robed 
In  snow-white  innocence  or  purple  pride. " 

When  the  lilac-blossom  has  attained  its  maturity  it  begins 
to  gradually  change  colour,  until  at  last  it  becomes  of  a  red 
hue ;  and  this  afforded  Cowper  an  opportunity  of  terming 
them  sanguine : 

*'  The  lilac,  various  in  array — ^now  white, 
Now  sanguine,  and  her  beauteous  head  now  set 
With  purple  spikes  pyramidal ;  as  if. 
Studious  of  ornament,  yet  unresolved 
Which  hues  she  most  approves,  she  chose  them  all." 

So  sweet  a  blossom  is  the  lilac,  and  so  sweet  are  the  emo- 
tions it  represents,  that  every  one  must  concede  that  it  is  one  of 
those  lovely  and  beloved  plants  which  unite  the  qualities  Gothe 
ascribes  to  some  flowers,  of  being  beautiful  only  to  the  eye, 
and  others  only  to  the  heart. 

From  the  purity  of  its  colour  and  the  short  duration  of  its 
lovely  clusters  of  blossoms,  white  lilac  has  been  made  the 
emblem  of  youth. 


M5^ 


8—2 


Magnolia. 

(MAGNIFICENCE.) 

THIS  superb  emblem  oi  magnificeitce  \YdiS  named  Magnolia 
by  Plumier,  in  honour  of  Pierre  Magnol,  a  well-known 
writer  on  botanical  subjects.  It  is  a  native  of  the  Southern 
States  of  North  America.  In  its  native  country  it  begins  to 
blossom  in  May,  and  continues  a  long  time  in  flower,  per- 
fuming the  woods  during  the  whole  of  the  summer  months. 
Kalen  says  that  he  seldom  found  the  magnolia  north  of  Penn- 
sylvania. "  They  may  be  discovered,"  he  adds,  ''  by  the  scent 
of  the  blossoms  at  the  distance  of  three-quarters  of  a  mile  if 
the  wind  be  favourable.  It  is  beyond  description  pleasant  to 
travel  in  the  woods  at  that  season,  especially  in  the  evening. 
They  retain  their  flowers  three  weeks.  The  berries,  also,  look 
very  handsome  when  they  are  ripe,  being  of  a  rich  red  colour, 
and  hanging  in  bunches  on  slender  threads." 

Dillenius  says  the  flowers  of  this  tree  never  open  in  the 
morning,  and  that  their  scent  resembles  that  of  the  lily  of  the 
valley,  with  an  aromatic  mixture. 

Loudon  tells  a  most  interesting  story  of  a  Magnolia  grandi- 
flora,  which  in  1732  was  brought  by  a  French  naval  officer  from 
the  banks  of  the  Mississippi,  and  planted  at  Maillardiere, 
about  five  miles  from  Nantes.  This  officer  died,  and  his  heirs, 
not  caring  for  a  tree  that  had  as  yet  produced  nothing,  for 
nearly  thirty  years  allowed  it  to  remain  unnoticed.  In  1758, 
however,  M.  Bonami,  a  botanist,  discovered  it,  recognized  the 
species,  and  in  1760,  at  the  meeting  of  the  States  of  Bretagne 
at  Nantes,  he  presented  the  Princess  de  Rohan-Chabet  with  a 
branch  of  this  magnolia  in  full  blossom  :  it  at  once  became 
the  object  of  interest  and  conversation  amongst  all  there. 
At  last,  Louis  XV.  hearing  of  the  magnificence  of  the  tree. 


Magnolia.  117 


had  it  transported  to  Paris,  where  it  still  exists,  full  of  years 
and  honours  ;  not,  however,  without  having  had  many  narrow 
escapes  from  total  destruction  by  fire,  sword,  and  other  dan- 
onerous  enemies.  Although  upwards  of  a  hundred  years  old,  it 
produces  annually  somewhere  about  four  hundred  large,  ele- 
gant, and  sweet-scented  flowers. 

In  China  and  Japan  the  magnolia  is  highly  valued  ;  and  in 
the  former  country  they  are  most  carefully  cultivated  in  the 
gardens  of  the  emperor  and  by  all  those  who  can  afford  them. 
A  magnolia  in  flower  is  considered  a  handsome  gift  for  the 
emperor,  even  from  the  governor  of  a  province. 

So  powerful  is  the  fragrance  of  this  flower  that,  it  is  said,  a 
single  blossom  of  it  placed  in  a  bed-room  suffices  to  cause 
death,  even  in  one  night.  English  poets  are  not  sufficiently 
familiar  with  the  magnolia  to  pay  it  that  homage  which  its 
loveliness  deserves.  In  Tighe's  poem  of  "  The  Rose,"  the  poet, 
in  exalting  the  beauty  of  that  Queen  of  Flowers,  says 

**  Less-prized  gardenia  drops  her  lucid  bells, 
And  rich  magnolias  close  their  purple  globes." 

And  Wordsworth  alludes  thus  to  this  flower : 

**He  spoke  of  plants  divine  and  strange,  "He  told  of  the  magnolia,  spread 
That  every  hour  their  blossoms  change      High  as  a  cloud,  high  overhead  ; 

Ten  thousand  lovely  hues  !  The  cypress  and  her  spire  ; 

With  budding,  fading,  faded  flowers,  Of  flowers  that  with  one  scarlet  gleam 

They  stand  the  wonder  of  the  bowers         Cover  a  hundred  leagues,  and  seem 

From  morn  to  evening  dews.  To  set  the  hills  on  fire." 

Chateaubriand,  in  his  romance  of  "  Atala,"  referring  to  an 
Indian  superstition  which  supposes  that  the  souls  of  departed 
infants  enter  into  flowers,  thus  introduces  this  lovely  bloom : 
"  I  gathered  a  magnolia-blossom,  and  placed  it,  yet  moist 
with  dew,  upon  the  head  of  Atala,  who  still  slept.  I  hoped 
that,  according  to  my  religion,  the  soul  of  some  new-born 
infant  would  descend  on  the  crystal  dew  of  this  flower,  and 
that  a  prosperous  dream  would  convey  it  to  the  bosom  of  my 
beloved." 


Judas  Flower. 

(UNBELIEF.) 

THE  botanical  name  of  the  Judas-tree  is  from  the  Greek, 
and  signifies  a  little  sheath  ;  but  the  more  ominous  title, 
by  which  it  is  known  to  the  English,  Germans,  and  French,  is 
derived  from  the  supposition  that  Judas  hanged  himself  upon 
it,  although  Gerarde  and  other  ancient  writers  on  sylvan  sub- 
jects assign  that  ghastly  association  to  the  elder. 

In  one  portion  of  the  wild  Arabian  epic  of  "  Antar,"  one  of 
its  heroes,  named  Shedad,  is  compared  to  the  flower  of  the 
Judas-tree,  "  so  completely  was  he  smeared  with  the  blood  of 
the  combatants." 

The  blossoms  of  the  European  variety  of  this  tree  are  of  a 
very  beautiful  bright  purple,  and  come  out  in  spring  in  large 
clusters  on  every  side  of  the  branches,  and  often  of  the  stem, 
and  are  in  full  blow  before  the  leaves  have  attained  half  their 
size.  The  North  American  Judas-tree  is  called  "red-bud  tree," 
from  the  red  flower  buds  appearing  in  the  spring  before  the 
leaves. 

On  account  of  the  beauty  of  its  flowers,  the  Spaniards  call 
this  plant  "the  tree  of  love,"  and  certainly  that  designation 
accords  well  with  the  exquisitely  pathetic  legend  of  "  The 
Wayside  Inn,"  with  which  the  late  Adelaide  Procter,  Barry 
Cornwall's  gifted  daughter,  has  enwoven  it : 


**A  little  past  the  village 

The  inn  stood,  low  and  white ; 
Green  shady  trees  behind  it, 

And  an  orchard  on  the  right, 
Where  over  the  green  paling 

The  red-cheeked  apples  hung, 
As  if  to  watch  how  wearily 

The  sign-board  creaked  and  swung. 


^The  heavy-laden  branches 

Over  the  road  hvmg  low, 
Reflected  fruit  or  blossom 

From  the  wayside  well  below^ 
Where  children,  drawing  water. 

Looked  up  and  paused  to  see, 
Amid  the  apple-branches, 

A  purple  Judas-tree." 


Here  at  this  quiet  wayside  inn  lived  little  Maurice,  whose 


Judas  Flower. 


119 


occupation  was  to  aid  passing  travellers,  to  "  loose  the  bridle, 
and  tend  the  weary  steed."  One  bright  May  day,  the  sun- 
burnt boy  beheld  % 


*'A  train  of  horsemen,  nobler 

Than  he  had  seen  before ; 
They  from  the  distance  gaUoped, 

And  halted  at  the  door. 
Upon  a  milk-white  pony, 

Fit  for  a  faery  queen, 
Was  the  loveliest  little  damsel 

His  eyes  had  ever  seen. 
***** 
* '  Her  sunny  ringlets  round  her 

A  golden  cloud  had  made, 
While  her  large  hat  was  keeping 

Her  calm  blue  eyes  in  shade ; 
One  hand  held  fast  the  silken  reins 

To  keep  her  steed  in  check ; 
The  other  pulled  his  tangled  mane. 

Or  stroked  his  glossy  neck. 


"And  as  the  boy  brought  water, 

And  loosed  the  rein,  he  heard 
The  sweetest  voice,  that  thanked  him 

In  one  low,  gentle  word ; 
She  turned  her  blue  eyes  from  him, 

Looked  up,  and  smiled  to  see 
The  hanging  purple  blossoms 

Upon  the  Judas-tree ; 

"And  showed  it  with  a  gesture, 

Half  pleading,  half  command. 
Till  he  broke  the  fairest  blossom, 

And  laid  it  in  her  hand ; 
And  she  tied  it  to  her  saddle 

With  a  ribbon  from  her  hair, 
While  her  happy  laugh  rang  gaily 

Like  silver  on  the  air." 


But  the  steeds  and  the  riders  were  rested,  and  moved  on 
down  the  dusty  highway  and  vanished.  Many  years  passed 
away,  but  the  little  milk-white  pony  and  the  child  returned  no 
more.  "  Many  summers  had  fled,  and  the  spreading  apple- 
branches  a  deeper  shadow  shed,"  when  the  news  of  a  lordly 
wedding  was  borne  on  the  western  breeze.  Amongst  the  eager 
watchers  to  see  the  bridal  train  pass  by,  once  more  stands 
Maurice : 


"They  come,  the  cloud  of  dust  draws  near; 

'Mid  all  the  state  and  pride. 
He  only  sees  the  golden  hair 

And  blue  eyes  of  the  bride. 
Her  shy  and  smiling  eyes  looked  round, 

Unconscious  of  the  place, 
Unconscious  of  the  eager  gaze 

He  fixed  upon  her  face. 


'He  plucked  a  blossom  from  the  tree — 

The  Judas-tree — and  cast 
Its  purple  fragrance  towards  the  bride, 

A  message  from  the  Past. 
The  signal  came,  the  horses  plunged ; 

Once  more  she  smiled  around ; 
The  purple  blossom  in  the  dust 

Lay  trampled  on  the  ground." 


Again  the  slow  years  fleeted  away,  and  one  winter  morning 
once  more  Maurice  beheld  the  lady  pass  by ;  but  grief  had 
wrought  its  sign  upon  her  and  had  dimmed  the  glory  of  her 
bright  blue  eyes, 

*'  That  watched  with  the  absent  spirit 
That  looks,  yet  does  not  see 
The  dead  and  leafless  branches 
Upon  the  Judas-tree." 


I20 


Judas  Flower. 


*'The  slow  dark  months  crept  onward 
Upon  their  icy  way, 
Till  April  broke  in  showers, 

And  Spring  smiled  forth  in  May ; 
Upon  the  apple-blossoms 

The  sun  shone  bright  again, 
When  slowly  up  the  highway 
Came  a  long  funeral  train. 
*  *  *  *  * 

"Now  laid  upon  the  coffin 

With  a  purple  flower,  might  be 
Told  to  the  cold  de^d  sleeper; 


The  rest  could  only  see 
A  fragrant  purple  blossom, 
Plucked  from  a  Judas-tree. " 

**'Mid  all  that  homage  given 

To  a  fluttering  heart  at  rest, 
Perhaps  an  honest  sorrow 

Dwelt  only  in  one  breast : 
The  boyish  silent  homage. 

To  child  and  bride  unknown  j 
The  pitying  tender  sorrow 

Kept  in  his  heart  alone ; 


Dandelion. 

(ORACLE.) 

HOW  often  you  may  have  passed  by  this  common  wild 
flower,  the  Dandelion,  as  a  plant  possessing  little  attrac- 
tion !  And  yet,  not  only  is  it  extremely  useful  for  manifold 
culinary  and  medicinal  purposes,  but,  under  its  presumed  ora- 
cular character,  many  a  little  beating  heart  has  it  caused  to 
throb  yet  more  merrily,  or  more  wearily  heave  ;  many  a  bright 
eye  has  it  made  to  gleam  brighter  with  anticipated  triumph,  or 
dim  with  foreboding  tears  ;  for  this  golden-rayed  blossom,  like 
some  others  of  its  floral  sisterhood,  is  often  selected  to  decide 
its  fair  questioner's  fate  :  "  He  loves  me,"  or,  "  He  loves  me 
not."  Alas  !  what  histories  of  joy  or  misery  may  the  answers 
to  those  simple  questions  betoken  ! 

Not  only,  however,  do  the  responses  of  this  oracle  foreshadow 
the  fate  of  our  heart's  affection,  but  to  the  schoolboy  who,  bred 
up  amid  the  secrets  of  Nature,  often  tries 

"To  win  the  secret  of  a  weed's  plain  heart," 

the  dandelion  frequently  serves  to  tell  another  tale :  gently 
plucking  it  from  its  hollow  stem,  he  blows  softly  upon  its  fea- 
thery coronet,  and  away  flies  the  ethereal  spray.  "  One  o'clock ! " 
he  shouts,  and  then  gives  another  pufl"  at  his  floral  timepiece, 
and  ofl"  careers  another  fleecy  cloud  :  "  Two  o'clock  ! "  he  cries, 
and  again  repeats  the  experiment,  until  not  a  single  tiny  plume 
is  left  on  the  poor  bald-headed  flower ;  as  many  puffs  as  it 
takes  to  scatter  the  down,  so  many  hours  of  the  day,  say  the 
little  rustics,  have  fleeted  by.  They  can  scarcely  think,  these 
lads  and  lasses,  that  they  are  aiding  the  operations  of  Nature 
by  thus  dispersing,  attached  to  that  light  and  pretty  spray,  the 
flower's  seed.  William  Howitt  thus  charmingly  alludes  to  the 
custom : 


122  Da  ndelion. 


"Dandelion,  with  globe  of  down, 
The  schoolboy's  clock  iu  every  town, 
"Which  the  truant  puffs  amain, 
To  conjure  lost  hours  back  again," 

Not  only  does  it  rest  its  claim  to  be  considered  an  oracle 
upon  these  prophetic  utterances,  but  also  upon  the  fact  that  as 
its  blossoms  open  and  close  at  certain  regular  hours,  it  serves 
the  solitary  shepherd  as  a  clock,  and  as  a  barometer,  by  pre- 
dicting, by  means  of  its  feathery  tufts,  calm  or  stormy  weather. 
Well,  indeed,  might  Allan  Cunningham  exclaim : 

**  There  is  a  lesson  in  each  flower, 
A  story  in  each  stream  and  bower ; 
In  every  herb  on  which  you  tread 
Are  written  words,  which,  rightly  read, 
Will  lead  you  from  earth's  fragrant  sod, 
To  hope,  and  holiness,  and  God ! " 

Or,  as  Charlotte  Smith  hath  said, 

"  Thus  in  each  flower  and  simple  bell 
That  in  our  path  betrodden  lie 
Are  sweet  remembrancers,  who  tell 
How  fast  the  winged  moments  fly." 

This  flower  is  supposed  to  have  derived  its  name  from  the 
deeply  notched  edges  of  its  leaves,  they  having  been  thought 
to  resemble  the  teeth  of  a  lion,  for  which  reason  it  was  called 
"  lion-toothed,"  or  ''dent  de  Hour 

Darwin,  in  his  so  strangely  neglected  "■  Loves  of  the  Plants," 
speaks  of  the  methodical  habits  of  the  dandelion  under  its 
classical  name : 

' '  Leontodons  unfold 
On  the  swart  turf  their  ray-encircled  gold ; 
With  Sol's  expanding  beam  the  flowers  unclose, 
And  rising  Hesper  lights  them  to  repose. " 


^g?w?j»^?^5^fa^K5f^ 


•Ss^^^^^^^S^^. 


Campanula. 

(I    WILL    BE    EVER    CONSTANT.) 

ALTHOUGH  the  genus  of  Campanidacecey  or  bell-flowers, 
is  deemed  emblematic  of  constancy^  each  of  the  well- 
known  members  of  the  graceful  family  has  its  own  particular 
meaning.  Th.Q  Canterbury  Bell,  so  styled  because  of  its  pro- 
fusion in  the  neighbourhood  of  that  city,  is  one  of  the  most 
known  of  the  race.  It  was  formerly  called  "  Farfre-in-sight," 
and  florigraphists  have  variously  considered  it  as  the  symbol 
of  both  gratitude  and  constancy.  Its  deep  purple  bells  are 
generally  very  large  ;  but  there  is  a  icind  bearing  bells  of  lesser 
size,  and  coloured  blue,  purple,  or  white.  These  pretty  flowers 
look  as  if  they  were  especially  formed  for  the  use  of  those 
fairy  elves  who  formerly  haunted  our  woodlands  and  meadows 
with  their  little  figures.  What  a  slight  stretch  of  fancy  is 
needed  to  imagine  that  these  tiny  trembling  bells  oft  ring  their 
mad  merry  peals  for  the  benefit  of  such  elves  as  lurk  *'  under 
the  blossom  that  hangs  on  the  bough,"  and  who,  like  their 
human  brethren,  "use  flowers  for  their  charactery!" 

A  great  favourite  in  this  much-admired  floral  fraternity  is 
the  Venus^s  Looking-glass,  selected  as  the  type  of  flattery. 
The  mirrors  of  the  ancients  were  always  circular  in  form,  and 
this  plant  is  said  to  have  received  its  popular  cognomen  from 
the  resemblance  of  its  round-shaped  blossom  to  the  form  of  a 
mirror,  and  being  considered  extremely  pretty,  it  was  appro- 
priated to  the  Goddess  of  Beauty.  The  classics,  however,  tell 
a  different  tale,  and  relate  that  Venus  one  day  dropped  one 
of  her  mirrors,  which  possessed  the  quality  of  beautifying 
whatever  it  reflected.  A  shepherd  picked  it  up  ;  but  no  sooner 
had  he  gazed  upon  it  than  he  forgot  his  favourite  nymph  and 
everything  else  he  should  have  recollected,  and,  like  another 
Narcissus,  did  nothing  but  admire  his  own  charms.     Cupid 


J  2  4  Ca  MP  a  nula  . 


discovered  how  affairs  stood,  and,  fearful  of  the  trouble  that 
might  arise  from  such  a  silly  error,  broke  the  mirror  and  trans- 
formed the  fragments  into  this  bright  plant,  which  has  ever 
since  been  called  Venus's  Looking-glass. 

There  is  a  very  pretty  campanula  with  delicate  lilac-hued 
flowers,  that  hang  like  bells  from  the  stalk.  It  is  called  by  the 
French  "  Nun  of  the  Fields,"  probably  in  remembrance  of  some 
tender  legend  of  the  olden  time ;  to  us  it  is  known  as  Agrimony ^ 
and  has  been  adopted  by  floral  linguists  as  the  type  of  thank- 
fulness, a  feeling  which  every  one  must  experience,  not  only 
when  gazing  upon  this  suggestive  "  floral  apostle,"  but  when 

^  fc>        y  « « Floral  bough  that  swingeth, 

And  tolls  its  perfume  on  the  passing  air;" 

for,  indeed,  O  ye  flowers !  although  your  lips  are  voiceless  to 
the  ear,  yet  to  the  heart  ye 

* '  Are  living  preachers ; 
Each  cup  a  pulpit,  every  leaf  a  book  ; 
Supplying  to  my  fancy  numerous  teachers 
From  loneliest  nook." 

The  delicate  Harebell,  the  favourite  of  our  poets  and  the 
rival  of  the  heather  in  the  strong  love  of  old  Scotia,  belongs 
to  this  timorous  group  of  flowers,  and,  on  account  of  its  tender 
blossoms  and  slender,  fragile-looking  stem,  has  been  made  the 
emblem  of  loves  frailty.  Its  azure  bell  hangs  lightly  upon  its 
shivering  stalk  and  "  rings  to  the  mosses  underneath."  With 
a  mien  so  frail,  one  dreads  every  moment  to  behold  its  beauties 
rent  to  pieces  and  destroyed  by  the  rude  wind  ;  and  yet,  so 
marvellously  is  this  little  floral  elf  constructed,  that  it  will  often 
successfully  brave  the  battle  of  the  rough  elements  and  outlast 
the  ruffian  breeze  that  lays  the  monster  oak  of  a  thousand 
years  shattered  upon  the  soil. 

This  is  the  dewy  bluebell  which  Eliza  Cook  tells  us  is  filled 
with  "  chaliced  fragrance,"  and  with  which  a  thousand  poets 
have  linked  their  imperishable  fame. 

These  lines,  by  the  last-named  lady,  to  "Bluebells  in  the 
Shade,"  require  no  introduction  to  our  audience  : 

"The  choicest  buds  in  Flora's  train  let  other  fingers  twine; 
Let  others  snatch  the  damask  rose,  or  w^reathe  the  eglantine  ; 
I  'd  leave  the  sunshine  and  parterre,  and  seek  the  M^oodland  gladu, 
To  stretch  me  on  the  fragrant  bed  of  bluebells  in  the  shade. 


Campanula. 


125 


**Let  others  cull  the  daffodil,  the  lily  soft  and  fair, 
And  deem  the  tulip's  gaudy  cup  most  beautiful  and  rare ; 
But  give  to  me,  oh,  give  to  me,  the  coronal  that 's  made 
Of  ruby  orchids  mingled  with  the  bluebells  from  the  shade. 

"The  sunflower  and  the  peony,  the  poppy  bright  and  gay, 
Have  no  alluring  charms  for  me :  I  'd  fling  them  all  away. 
Exotic  bloom  may  fill  the  vase,  or  grace  the  high-born  maid ; 
But  sweeter  far  to  me  than  all  are  bluebells  in  the  shade." 

Eliza  Cook. 


<^p2^i&i 


Hyacinth. 

(GAME— PLAY.) 

THE  Oriental  or  garden  Hyacinth  is  a  native  of  the  Levant. 
Culture  has  produced  several  large  and  splendid  double 
varieties  of  these  flowers ;  their  elegantly  shaped  bell  blossoms, 
towering  one  above  another  upon  graceful  stems,  in  almost 
unrivalled  redolence  and  in  nearly  every  hue  of  the  rainbow, 
present  a  glorious  spectacle.    Sweet-voiced  Shelley  plaintively 

SmgS  OI  "The  hyacinth,  purple,  and  white,  and  bkie, 

Which  flung  from  its  bells  a  sweet  peal  anew 
Of  music,  so  delicate,  soft,  and  intense, 
It  was  felt  like  an  odour  within  the  sense." 

According  to  the  mythologists,  this  fairy-like  fragile  flower 
had  its  orgin  in  the  death  of  Hyacinthus,  a  Laconian  youth, 
greatly  favoured  by  Apollo,  and  much  admired  for  his  beauty. 
He  fell  a  victim  to  the  jealous  rage  of  Zephyrus,  who,  in  re- 
venge for  the  preference  manifested  for  him  by  the  Sun-god, 
had  determined  to  effect  his  destruction.  Accordingly,  one  day 
when  the  ill-fated  youth  was  playing  at  quoits  with  his  divine 
friend,  Zephyrus  blew  so  powerfully  upon  the  iron  flung  by 
Apollo  that  it  struck  the  unfortunate  Hyacinthus  on  the  temple 
and  killed  him,  to  the  intense  grief  of  his  innocent  slayer.  To 
commemorate  the  grace  and  beauty  of  the  poor  young  prince, 
for  such  he  was,  Apollo,  unable  to  restore  him  to  life,  caused 
the  flower  which  now  bears  his  name  to  spring  from  his  blood. 
Thus  it  was  that  the  hyacinth,  so  celebrated  in  the  songs  of 
the  poets  from  the  days  of  Homer  downwards,  became  the 
floral  hieroglyph  of  play,  although  one  would  certainly  have 
thought  that  a  more  sober  meaning  could  have  been  awarded 
to  a  bloom  reputed  to  have  had  so  melancholy  an  origin,  and 
ivhich  still  bears  imprinted  in  indelible  characters  upon  its 
bosom  poor  Hyacinthus'  last  cry  of  '^Ai!  ail" 

An  annual  solemnity,  called  Hyacinthia,  was  established  in 
Laconia  in  honour  of  Hyacinthus.  It  lasted  three  days,  during 
which  the  people,  to  show  their  grief  for  the  loss  of  their  darling 


Hyacinth.  127 


prince,  ate  no  bread,  but  fed  upon  sweetmeats,  and  abstained 
from  adorning  their  hair  with  garlands  as  on  ordinary  occasions. 

On  the  second  day  a  band  of  youths  entertained  the  spec- 
tators by  playing  upon  the  harp,  upon  the  flute,  and  chanting 
grand  choruses  in  honour  of  Apollo.  Numbers  came  mounted 
upon  horses  richly  caparisoned,  singing  rustic  songs,  and  ac- 
companied by  a  throng,  who  danced  to  vocal  and  instrumental 
music ;  maidens,  selected  for  their  beauty,  splendidly  attired, 
appeared  in  covered  carriages,  most  magnificently  adorned, 
singing  hymns  ;  whilst  the  others  were  engaged  in  chariot 
races.  An  immense  number  of  victims  were  offered  on  the 
altars  of  Apollo  ;  and  their  slaves^  as  well  as  their  friends,  were 
entertained  with  the  utmost  liberality  by  the  votaries. 

This  flower  is  justly  the  pride  of  the  Dutch  florists,  who  gain 
immense  annual  profits  from  its  culture,  although  during  the 
last  few  years  it  has  somewhat  lost  ground  in  public  favour,  by 
reason  of  the  many  tropical  plants  that  have  been  introduced 
into  QMX  flora  doniestica.  The  credit  of  having  reared  the  first 
double  hyacinth  is  given  to  Peter  Voerhelm,  a  celebrated  florist 
of  Haarlem.  It  is  stated  that  he  was  accustomed  to  throw 
away  as  imperfect  all  the  double  blossoms,  until  a  fit  of  illness 
prevented  him  from  visiting  his  bulbs  for  some  days  ;  on  re- 
newing his  floral  duties,  a  double  flower  that  had  escaped 
destruction  attracted  his  attention.  He  determined  to  culti- 
vate it ;  and  well  it  repaid  him  his  care.  Florists  and  customers 
came,  saw,  and  purchased ;  but,  by  some  strange  vicissitude,  this 
first  double  hacyinth,  named  "  Mary,"  and  the  two  next  varie- 
ties that  were  produced,  have  been  lost.  For  one  bulb  which 
he  had  raised  he  is  said  to  have  obtained  ;^ioo.  This  flower, 
which  he  christened  "  The  King  of  Great  Britain,"  is  now  con- 
sidered the  originator  of  the  oldest  double  variety  in  existence. 

The  common  or,  as  old  botanists  style  it,  the  English  hya- 
cinth, is  frequently  termed  the  Harebell  by  poetical  writers. 
Browne,  author  of  "■  Britannia's  Pastorals,"  in  his  list  of  ''  Floral 
Emblems,"  observes  that 

"The  harebell,  for  her  stainless  azured  hue, 
Claims  to  be  worn  of  none  but  those  are  true." 

The  harebell  is  sometimes  white  or  flesh-coloured,  but  much 
more  commonly  blue  or  violet-hued. 

Under  its  general  appellation  of  the  hyacinth,  this  flower  has 


128  Hyacinth. 


received  a  countless  number  of  poetical  tributes  ;  but  its  right 
to  retain  them  is  strongly  disputed  now-a-days,  several  writers 
maintaining  that  they  were  intended  for  another  flower  alto- 
gether, the  red  Martagon  lily  being  now  supposed  rightfully 
entitled  to  the  homage  paid  by  ancient  authors  to  the  bloom 
that  sprang  from  the  blood  of  Hyacinthus,  from  the  fact  that 
its  petals  bear  the  distinguishing  mark  of  ai^  at,  d,nd  that  it  is 
of  a  deep  blood-coloured  hue. 

The  authoress  of  "Flora  Domestica"  enters  warmly  into 
the  contest,  and  certainly  makes  out  a  very  good  case  on  be- 
half of  her  selected  flower.  After  citing  a  large  number  of 
poetical  witnesses,  she  winds  up  her  debate  by  saying,  "  There 
have  been  great  disputes  and  differences  about  the  hyacinth  : 
all  were  agreed  that  our  modern  hyacinth  was  not  the  hyacinth 
of  the  ancients  ;  but  the  difficulty  was  to  determine  what  was." 
And  our  authority  then  concludes  by  deciding  that  "  the  best 
arguments  have  been  urged  in  support  of  the  Martagon  lily, 
which  is  now  pretty  generally  acknowledged  to  be  the  true 
heir  to  this  ancient  and  illustrious  race." 

The  following  tragic,  if  true,  story  was  related  some  time 
since  of  the  effect  said  to  be  produced  by  the  powerful  per- 
fume of  the  hyacinth : 

M.  Sam  relates  that  he  was  standing  at  a  ball  given  at  the 
Tuileries,  talking  to  the  great  chemist,  Dr.  Lisfranc,  when  he 
perceived  him  become  pale  and  move  from  his  position.  M. 
Sam,  fancying  that  his  friend  had  been  taken  ill,  followed  him 
out  to  the  salle  des  vtarechaux.  There  having  recovered  his 
equanimity,  he  said,  '  I  have  just  seen  a  beautiful  young  bride 
waltzing  with  her  second  husband.  Now,  I  am  perfectly  con- 
vinced she  murdered  her  first  husband.  It  had  been. a  love 
match ;  but  the  young  man  discovered  that  he  had  made  a  fatal 
mistake,  and  his  health  visibly  declined.  One  morning  he  was 
found  dead  in  his  bed-room,  which  his  wife  had  filled  with  hya- 
cinths :  their  poisonous  emanations  had  evidently  killed  him. 
On  being  summoned  to  examine  into  the  cause  of  his  death, 
I  perfectly  remembered  having  related  in  his  wife's  hearing  a 
case  of  poisoning  produced  by  those  very  flowers,  and  on 
learning  that  a  scandalous  intrigue  on  her  part  had  been  the 
cause  of  his  misery,  I  have  not  the  slightest  doubt  that  the 
wretched  woman  adopted  this  mode  of  regaining  her  liberty.'  *' 


Marygold 

(GRIEF.) 

"She  droops  and  mourns, 
Bedew'd,  as  't  were,  with  tears.  ' 

George  Withers. 

THE  Classic  name  for  this  flower  is  Calendula,  which  some 
writers  translate  into  the  "flower  of  all  the  months';'' 
a  title  given  to  it,  they  add,  in  consequence  of  its  blossoming 
the  whole  year — a  statement  scarcely  borne  out  by  facts  so  far 
as  England  is  concerned.  By  old  English  poets  these  plants 
are  called  ''  golds  ; "  the  name  of  the  Virgin  Mary  was  a  very 
frequent  addition  in  the  middle  ages  to  anything  useful  or 
beautiful,  and  so  in  course  of  time  this  flower  became  known 
as  the  marygold.  In  Provence  they  call  it  gauche  fer  (left-hand 
iron),  probably  from  its  round,  brilliant  disc,  suggestive  of  a 
shield,  which  is  worn  on  the  left  arm. 

Why  so  dazzling  a  bloom  should  have  become  the  emblem 
of  grief  it  is  difficult  to  say,  but  in  many  lands  it  is  regarded 
as  such.  Although  alone,  however,  the  marygold  expresses 
grief,  by  a  judicious  admixture  with  other  flowers  its  meaning 
may  be  greatly  varied.  For  instance,  combined  with  roses  it 
is  symbolic  of  "  the  bitter  sweets  and  pleasant  pains  of  love  ;  " 
whilst  amongst  Eastern  nations  a  bouquet  of  marygolds  and 
poppies  signifies  "  I  will  allay  your  pain:"  Associated  with 
cypress,  the  emblem  of  death,  marygolds  betoken  despair. 

Linnaeus  has  remarked  that  the  marygold  is  usually  open 
from  nine  in  the  morning  till  three  in  the  afternoon  ;  this  fore- 
shows a  continuance  of  dry  weather  :  should  the  blossom 
remain  closed,  rain  may  be  expected.  This  circumstance,  and 
the  fact  of  its  always  turning  its  golden  face  towards  the  giver 
of  day,  has  caused  this  plant  to  be  sometimes  termed  ''  the 
sun  follower,"  and  the  "  spouse  of  the  sun." 

9 


130  Marygold. 


Chatterton,  alluding  to  its  having  given  in  its  adherence  to 
the  early  closing  movement,  calls  it 

"The  Marybudde,  that  shutteth  with  the  light." 

And  Browne,  in  his  "  Britannia's  Pastorals,"  says : 

*'But,  maiden,  see,  the  day  is  waxen  olde, 
And  'gins  to  shut  in  with  the  marygolde." 

Whilst  ever-watchful  Shakspeare  remarks  in  "  Cymbeline," 
that  when  '*  Phoebus  'gins  arise,"  the  "  winking  marybuds 
begin  to  ope  their  golden  eyes." 

Another  noteworthy  property  of  this  flower  is  that  it  lasts 
out  all  its  floral  compeers,  and  continues  blooming  until 
stopped  by  the  frost.  In  her  "  Farewell  to  the  Flowers  in 
Autumn,"  Mrs.  Sigourney  acknowledges  this  virtue  of  the 
neglected  plant : 

"Coarse  marygold,  in  days  of  yore  I  scorned  thy  tawny  face, 
But  since  my  plants  are  frail  and  few,  I  've  given  thee  welcome  place. " 

Keats  pays  more  heed  to  the  natural  attractions  of  this 
flower,  and  sings : 

*'Open  afresh  your  round  of  starry  folds, 
Ye  ardent  marygolds ! 
Dry  up  the  moisture  of  your  golden  lids, 
For  great  Apollo  bids 

That  in  these  days  3'^our  praises  shall  be  sung 
On  many  harps,  which  he  has  lately  strung ; 
And  then  again  your  dewiness  he  kisses — 
Tell  him  I  have  you  in  my  world  of  blisses  : 
So  haply  when  I  rove  in  some  far  vale. 
His  mighty  voice  may  come  upon  the  gale." 

Marguerite  of  Orleans,  the  maternal  grandmother  of  Henry 
the  Great  of  France,  to  express  how  all  her  thoughts  and 
affections  were  directed  towards  Heaven,  adopted  for  her  ar- 
morial device  a  marygold  turning  towards  the  sun,  with  the 
motto,  "  Je  lie  veux  suiv7^e  que  lid  sueU' 

Chaucer  frequently  mentions  these  flowers  under  their  an- 
cient name  of  '*  goldes,"  and,  in  "  The  Knight's  Tale,"  bestows 
a  garland  of  them  upon  Jealousy,  yellow  being  the  colour 
deemed  emblematical  of  that  passion. 

The  marygold  is  sometimes  considered  the  florigraphical 
sign  of  predictio7if  because  it  is  used  by  our  lads  and  lasses,  as 


MaRVGOLD,  I'll 


o 


is  the  daisy  by  those  of  France,  and  the  aster  by  those  of 
Germany,  to  determine  whether  they  are  beloved  or  not  by  the 
object  of  their  thoughts. 

This  flower  excited  more  solemn  reflections  in  the  mind  of 
George  Withers,  who  in  his  usual  quaint  manner  thus  moralizes 
over  it : 

"When,  with  a  serious  musing,  I  behold 
The  grateful  and  obsequious  marygold, 
How  duly  every  morning  she  disjDlays 
Her  open  breast  when  Phoebus  spreads  his  rays  ; 
How  she  observes  him  in  her  daily  walk. 
Still  bending  towards  him  her  small  slender  stalk  ; 
How,  when  he  down  declines,  she  droops  and  mourns^ 
Bedew'd,  as  't  were,  with  tears  till  he  returns  ; 
And  how  she  veils  her  flowers  when  he  is  gone, 
As  if  she  scorn'd  to  be  looked  upon 
By  an  inferior  eye,  or  did  contemn 
To  wait  upon  a  meaner  light  than  him. 
When  this  I  meditate,  methinks  the  flowers 
Have  spirits  far  more  generous  than  ours, 
And  give  us  fair  examples  to  despise 
The  servile  fawnings  and  idolatries 
Wherewith  we  court  these  earthly  things  below. 
Which  merit  not  the  service  we  bestow." 


Aster. 

(AFTER-THOUGHT.) 

"Like  a  pleasant  thought, 
When  such  are  wanted." 


Anon. 


THE  Astei%  or  Starzvort,  represents  an  exceedingly  nu- 
merous family  which  derives  its  name  from  the  Greek 
word  aster,  signifying  star.  In  the  language  of  flowers  it  is 
said  to  be  emblematical  of  after-tJiongJit,  because  it  begins  to 
blow  when  other  flowers  are  scarce.  "  It  is  like  an  after- 
thought of  Flora's,  who  smiles  at  leaving  us." 

The  different  varieties  of  this  flower  are  very  numerous ; 
and,  being  very  showy,  of  almost  every  colour,  and  those 
colours  remarkably  vivid,  they  make  a  brilliant  figure  in  our 
gardens  in  autumn. 

The  general  favourite  is  the  China  aster,  which  is  larger  and 
handsomer  than  any  of  the  others.  Europe  is  indebted  for 
this  variety  to  Father  d'Incarville,  a  Jesuit  missionary,  who,  in 
1730,  sent  some  seeds  of  it  to  the  royal  gardens  at  Paris. 
This  flower  is  much  admired  by  the  Chinese,  who  make  con- 
siderable use  of  it  in  the  decorations  of  their  gardens,  arranging 
it  so  as  to  rival  the  richest  patterns  of  Persian  carpets,  or  the 
most  curious  figures  that  can  be  devised  by  the  artist  in  filigree. 

The  French  are  fond  of  this  flower,  and  from  the  resemblance 
which  its  blossoms  bear  in  shape,  although  on  a  much  larger 
scale,  to  the  daisy,  call  it  La  Reine  Marguerite,  or  Queen  daisy. 

The  amellus  spoken  of  by  the  Greek  and  Latin  poets  is 
supposed  to  belong  to  the  aster  tribe  : 

* '  The  attic  star,  so  named  in  Grecian  use, 
But  call'd  ameUus  by  the  Mantuan  muse," 

says  Rapine  ;  and  Virgil,  in  his  fourth  "  Georgic,"  says  :  "  We 
have  also  a  flower  in  the  meadows,  which  the  country  people 


Aster.  133 

call  *  amellus.'  The  herb  is  very  easy  to  be  found,  for  the 
root — which  consists  of  a  great  bunch  of  fibres — sends  forth  a 
vast  number  of  stalks.  The  flower  itself  is  of  a  golden  colour, 
surrounded  by  a  great  number  of  leaves,  which  are  purple  like 
violets.  The  altars  of  t4ie  gods  are  often  adorned  with  wreaths 
of  these  flowers." 

The  star-flozvcr,  as  the  Germans  call  the  aster,  is  employed 
by  that  people  as  a  village  oracle,  after  the  manner  described 
under  the  heading  of  daisy.  Gothe,  in  his  great  tragedy  of 
"  Faust,"  makes  a  beautiful  use  of  this  superstition.  It  is  in 
the  well-known  garden  scene,  where  Faust  is  walking  with  the 
young  and  guileless  Marguerite — a  scene  that  Retzsch  has 
chosen  for  his  wildly-suggestive  pencil,  and  L.  E.  L.  for  her 
plaintive  pen  to  reproduce.  The  poor,  lovelost  girl  gathers  a 
flower,  and,  according  to  her  simple  method  of  divination, 
proceeds  to  pluck  ofl"  the  florets,  alternately  repeating  the 
words,  "  He  loves  me,"  "  he  loves  me  not."  On  arriving  at  the 
last  leaf,  she  joyously  exclaims,  "  He  loves  me ! "  and  Faust, 
in  spite  of  himself,  overpowered  by  her  childish  innocence, 
breaks  forth,  "  Yes !  he  loves  thee :  let  this  floral  token  be  a 
decree  of  Heaven  !  " 

Dr.  Zerfli,  in  his  valuable  notes  to  his  edition  of  "  Faust,"  says, 
*'  It  is  a  general  custom  for  lovers  to  consult  flowers,  as  a  sort 
of  oracle,  as  to  whether  their  love  is  returned  or  not.  The 
plan  adopted  is  simple  enough.  A  star-flower,  which  seems 
to  be  the  favourite,  is  selected,  and  the  person  consulting  it 
repeats  the  words 

*'  ^  Er  luht  mich  von  Ilerzen 
Mit  Schmerzen, 
Ja — oder  nein.^ 

A  single  leaf  is  pulled  off  at  each  recurrence  of  the  words  ja 
and  nein,  and  the  answer  of  the  oracle  is  yes  or  no,  as  ja  or 
nein  is  pronounced  on  pulling  the  last  of  the  leaves." 


Tuberose. 

(DANGEROUS     PLEASURES.) 

THERE  is  a  curious  perversion  of  name  in  the  designation 
of  this  flower,  which  has  nothing  to  do  with  "  tubes," 
or  "roses,"  and  is  merely  a  corruption  of  its  botanical  title, 
PoliantJies  tuberosa,  the  latter  word  simply  signifying  tuberous, 
and  the  former  word,  from  the  Greek,  expressing  city-flower. 

This  glorious  floral  favourite  grows  naturally  in  India,  whence 
it  was  brought  into  Europe  in  1632.  Its  blossoms  were  origi- 
nally single  ;  and  a  Monsieur  le  Cour,  a  celebrated  Leyden 
florist,  first  produced  a  double  variety.  He  was  so  tenacious 
of  the  roots  of  this  flower,  that  after  he  had  propagated  them 
in  such  plenty  as  to  have  more  than  he  could  plant,  he  caused 
them  to  be  cut  in  pieces,  to  have  the  vanity  of  boasting  that 
he  was  the  only  person  in  Europe  who  possessed  specimens  of 
them.  This  device  could  not,  however,  long  exclude  so  de- 
sirable an  acquisition  from  the  gardens  of  Europe,  and  it  is 
now  common  all  over  the  world. 

Its  white  blossom  exhales  the  most  exquisite  perfume — a 
perfume,  however,  it  is  alleged,  so  powerful,  that  to  enjoy  it 
without  danger  it  is  necessary  to  keep  at'  some  distance  from 
the  plant. 

Shelley,  in  verses  as  inexpressibly  beautiful  as  the  object 
they  celebrate,  calls 

"The  sweet  tuberose, 
The  sweetest  flower  for  scent  that  blows." 

The  Malayans  style  this  floral  belle,  "The  Mistress  of  the 
Night ;  "  a  poetical  idea  that  the  Irish  Anacreon  makes  use  of 
in  his  fantastic  poem  of  "  Lalla  Rookh  :  " 

"The  tuberose,  with  her  silveiy  light, 
That  in  the  gardens  of  Malay 
Is  called  the  Mistress  of  the  Night, 
So  like  a  bride,  scented  and  bright. 
She  comes  out  when  the  sun  's  away." 


Tuberose. 


T  "  r' 


It  has  been  prettily  remarked  that  we  must  remember  that 
Moore  is  speaking  of  the  lady's  habits  when  in  her  native 
country ;  in  our  colder  clime  she  waits  for  the  sunshine  before 
expanding  her  perfumed  petals.  When  worn  in  the  hair  by 
a  Malayan  lady,  it  informs  her  lover,  in  a  manner  that  words 
could  never  speak  half  so  well,  that  his  suit  is  pleasing  to  her. 

An  exquisite  littlQjhi  d' esprit  by  Leigh  Hunt,  known  as  the 
"Albanian  Love  Letter,"  prettily  carries  out  this  idea  of 

"  Saying  all  one  feels  and  thinks 
In  clever  daffodils  and  pinks ; 
Uttering  (as  well  as  silence  may) 
The  sweetest  words  the  sweetest  way." 

It  may  be  found  entire  under  the  heading  of  "Floral  Bou-., 
quets." 


Broom. 

(HUMILITY.) 

*'  The  memorial  flower  of  a  princely  race." 

THE  Broom  is  a  very  ornamental  shrub,  with  few  leaves, 
but  an  abundance  of  brilHant  and  elegant  flowers. 
There  are  three  species  with  white  and  one  with  violet-coloured 
bloom,  all  the  others  having  yellow  blossoms. 

Our  common  broom  surpasses  most  of  the  foreign  kinds  in 
beauty ;  indeed,  few  shrubs  are  more  magnificent  than  this 
evergreen,  with  its  profusion  of  bright  golden  blossoms,  me- 
lodious with  the  murmuring  of  innumerable  bees.  Few  can 
gaze  unmoved  upon  its  splendid  wreaths  of  glittering  bloom, 

'Yellow  and  bright,  as  bullion  mialloy'd." 

It  is,  therefore,  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  our  poets  have 
clustered  round  it  almost  as  thickly  and  as  lovingly  as  the 
bees,  or,  its  beauty  being  known,  that  they  should  have  de- 
rived as  abundant  a  supply  of  sweets  from  its  sweetness  as 
their  little  musical  competitors,  who  "hunt  for  the  golden  dew." 

Many  a  plaintive  tale  is  associated  with  the  broom  ;  many 
a  lament  has  been  sung  of  the  sad  thoughts  engendered  by 
lingering,  loving  memories  of  "  the  bonny  broom,"  by  wan- 
derers far  off  from  their  native  land. 

The  Scotch,  ever  wakeful  to  the  beauties  of  their  native 
home,  have  long  recognized  the  poetry  of  this  picturesque 
plant,  and  in  their  songs  and  ballads  often  chant  its  praise  : 

"  O,  the  broom,  the  bonny,  bonny  broom, 
The  broom  of  the  Cowden  Knows  ; 
For  sure  so  soft,  so  sweet  a  bloom 
Elsewhere  there  never  grows. " 

Burns  lauds  it,  and  well  he  might,  for  doubtless  he  had 


enABLit  rtnm 


tOMoeii 


Broom.  137 

ofttimes  seen  it  waving  high  over  the  headlong  torrents  of  his 
darling  Scotia,  or  spreading  a  gorgeous  golden  canopy  down 
the  sides  of  his  native  mountains.     Hark  to  his  paean : 

' '  Their  groves  of  sweet  myrtle  let  foreign  lands  reckon, 
Whose  bright  beaming  summers  exalt  the  perfume  ; 
Far  dearer  to  me  yon  lone  glen  of  green  breckan, 
Wi'  the  burn  stealing  under  the  long  yellow  broom. 

**  Far  dearer  to  me  are  yon  humble  broom  bowers, 

Where  the  bluebell  and  gowan  lurk  lowly,  unseen  ; 
And  where,  lightly  tripping  amang  the  sweet  flowers, 
A-listening  the  linnet,  oft  wanders  my  Jean." 

Although,  in  floral  phraseology,  the  broom  is  typical  of 
humility,  it  has,  its  presumed  humbleness  notwithstanding, 
had  several  adventures  with  royalty.  History  informs  us  that 
amid  the  stormy  times  of  the  fourteenth  century  this  wild 
shrub  was  scarcely  less  distinguished  as  a  regal  flower  than  the 
royal  rose  herself.  The  English  sovereign  race  of  Plantagenet 
evidently  derived  their  surname  from^^;/e/,  the  French  name  of 
this  plant ;  but  there  appears  a  great  discrepancy  between  the 
reasons  assigned  by  different  writers  as  to  why  the  designation 
was  first  assumed.  Skinner  says  that  the  House  of  Anjou 
derived  the  name  of  Plantagenet  from  a  prince  thereof  who, 
having  killed  his  brother  to  enjoy  his  principality,  afterwards 
repented,  and  made  a  voyage  to  the  Holy  Land  to  expiate  his 
crime,  scourging  himself  every  night  with  a  rod  made  of  the 
plant  genet.  Those  people  who  are  sceptical  on  the  point  of 
royal  repentances,  more  especially  when  they  require  penances 
as  an  accompaniment,  may  feel  more  inclined  to  give  credence 
to  the  account  embodied  in  the  following  popular  legend, 
which  tells  us  that  a  sprig  of  genista  was  first  adopted  as  the 
family  badge  by  Gefroi,  Duke  of  Anjou,  father  of  Henry  H. 
He  gathered  that  wild  flower — so  runs  the  story — when,  pass- 
ing through  a  rocky  pathway,  he  beheld  on  either  side  bushes 
of  yellow  broom  clinging  with  firm  grasp  to  the  huge  stones, 
or  upholding  the  crumbling  soil ;  and  **  thus,"  said  he,  "  shall 
that  golden  plant  ever  be  my  cognizance, — rooted  firmly  amid 
rocks,  and  yet  upholding  that  which  is  ready  to  fall.  I  will 
bear  it  in  my  crest — amid  battle-fields  if  need  be — at  tourna- 
ments, and  when  dispensing  justice ! "  Thus  saying,  the 
tvarrior  broke  off  a  branch,  and  fixing  it  in  triumph  in  his  cap, 


138  Broom. 

returned  to  his  castle.  Not  only  did  the  duke  adopt  his 
country's  most  beauteous  wild  flower  as  a  cognizance,  but  he 
also  took  the  name  of  Plantagenet,  or  planta  genista,  and 
transmitted  the  same  to  his  princely  descendants,  who  each 
bore  it  from  the  time  of  Henry  II. — called  by  historians  the 
first  royal  sprig  of  genista,  till  the  third  Richard,  last  scion  of 
the  plant  of  Anjou. 

This  version  of  the  story  how  the  emblem  of  humility  be- 
came the  crest  of  a  sovereign  house,  is  corrobora«ted  by  Lemon, 
in  his  "  English  Etymology."     He  thus  recapitulates  the  tale  : 

*^  Geoffry,  Count  of  Anjou,  acquired  the  surname  of  Planta- 
genet from  the  incident  of  his  wearing  a  sprig  of  broom  on  a 
day  of  battle.  This  Geoffry  was  second  husband  to  Matild, 
or  Maud,  Empress  of  Germany  and  daughter  of  Henry  I.  of 
England  ;  and  from  this  Plantagenet  family  were  descended 
all  our  Edwards  and  Henries." 

It  could  not  be  expected  that  so  romantic  a  story  would 
escape  the  poets,  and  accordingly  we  find  it  embalmed  in  the 
following  flowing  verse  : 

^*  Time  was  when  thy  golden  chain  of  flowers 

Was  linked,  the  warrior's  brow  to  bind  ; 
When  rear'd  in  the  slielter  of  royal  bowers, 
Thy  wreath  with  a  kingly  coronal  twined. 

"The  chieftain  who  bore  thee  high  in  his  cres-t, 
And  bequeathed  to  his  race  thy  simple  name, 
Long  ages  past  has  sunk  to  his  rest, 
And  only  survives  in  the  rolls  of  fame. 

**  Though  a  feeble  thing  that  Nature  forms, 
A  frail  and  perishing  flower  art  thou  ; 
Yet  thy  race  has  survived  a  thousand  storms, 
That  have  made  the  monarch  and  warrior  bow. 

**The  storied  urn  may  be  crumbled  to  dust, 
And  time  may  the  marble  bust  deface  ; 
But  thou  wilt  be  faithful  and  firm  to  thy  trust, 
The  memorial  flower  of  a  princely  race." 

In  1234,  when  the  brave  Marguerite,  the  Queen  of  Louis  IX. 
of  France  was  crowned,  that  King,  surnamed  "  the  Saint," 
selected  the  broom  as  the  badge  to  be  worn  by  the  members 
of  a  new  order  of  knighthood  which  he  created  on  that  festive 
occasion.  The  knights  of  this  order  wore  a  chain  composed 
of  the  blossoms  of  the  gen^t  entwined  with  \n\\\\.^  fleicrs-de-liSy 


Broom. 


139 


from  which  was  suspended  a  golden  cross  inscribed  with  the 
words  Exaltat  hiLimles.'^  Attached  to  this  order  was  a  body- 
guard of  one  hundred  nobles,  who  wore,  embroidered  on  the 
backs  and  fronts  of  their  coats,  the  broom,  and  above  that,  a 
hand  holding  a  crown,  with  the  inscription,  Deus  exaltat 
Immiles.-^ 

Some  florigraphists  have  deemed  the  broom  emblematic  of 
ardour,  doubtless  from  the  well-authenticated  fact  that  the 
spadix  acquires  so  strong  a  heat  as  to  be  painful  to  the  hand 
when  touched. 

There  is  one  great  charm,  seldom  commented  upon,  about 
this  flower, — 

"  The  golden  broom, 
Which  scents  the  passing  gale," — 

and  that  is  its  delicious  aroma. 


*  He  exalteth  the  humble. 


t  God  exalteth  the  humble. 


Poppy. 

(CONSOLATION.  — OBLIVION.) 

THE  Poppy  is  used  as  the  floral  sign  of  consolation ;  chiefly, 
it  is  supposed,  because,  as  the  Greek  mythologists  tell 
us,  it  was  created  by  Ceres  whilst  in  search  of  her  daughter 
Proserpine,  as  a  soother  of  her  grief  Our  old  pastoral  poet, 
William  Browne,  in  his  quaint  phraseology,  says : 

**  Sleep -bringing  poppy,  by  the  plowman  late, 
Not  without  cause,  to  Ceres  consecrate  : 
For  being  round  and  full  at  his  half-birth, 
It  signified  the  perfect  orb  of  earth  ; 
And  by  his  inequalities  when  blowne, 
The  earth's  low  vales  and  higher  hills  were  showne ; 
By  multitude  of  grains  it  held  within, 
Of  men  and  beasts  the  number  noted  bin.     .     .     . 
******* 
Or  since  her  daughter  that  she  loved  so  well, 
By  him  that  in  th'  infernal  shades  does  dwell, 
******* 
Fairest  Proserpina  was  rapt  away, 
And  she  in  plaints  the  night,  in  tears  the  day. 
Had  long  time  spent ;  when  no  high  power  could  give  her 
Any  redresse,  the  poppy  did  relieve  her  : 
For,  eating  of  the  seeds,  they  sleep  procured, 
And  so  beguiled  those  griefs  she  long  endured." 

The  well-known  somniferous  qualities  of  the  poppy  is  ad- 
duced as  another  reason  why  it  should  be  deemed  symbolic 
of  consolation,  and  of  oblivion.  That  it,  the  producer  of 
Nature's  sweet  restorer,  balmy  sleep,  should  be  chosen  as  the 
emblem  of  the  alleviation  of  our  troubles,  does  indeed  appear 
just.  Shakspeare,  Spenser,  and  others  frequently  allude  to 
the  "  drowsy  poppy  "  as  productive  of  "  the  easer  of  all  our 
woes."  Leigh  Hunt  calls  it  the  "blissful  poppy,"  from  its 
soothing  and  sleep-inducing  properties ;  whilst  Horace  Smith 
prays : 


CMJKitt  TfRnr. 


Poppy.  141 

"Gentle  Sleep  ! 
Scatter  thy  drowsiest  poppies  from  above  ; 
And  in  new  dreams,  not  soon  to  vanish,  bless 
My  senses  with  the  sight  of  her  I  love." 

Mr.  Davidson  states  that  it  was  the  custom  with  the  Romans 
to  offer  poppies  to  the  dead,  especially  to  those  whose  manes 
they  designed  to  appease  ;  and  Virgil,  in  his  "  Georgics,"  call- 
ing it  the  Lethaean  poppy,  directs  that  it  be  offered  by  way  of 
funeral  rite  to  Orpheus. 

This  same  Latin  writer  compares  the  dying  Euryalus,  as  he 
falls  to  earth  with  his  white  breast  pierced  by  the  cruel  sword, 
to  the  poppy,  bowing  down  its  wearied  neck  when  its  head  is 
overcharged  with  rain.  And  his  great  predecessor,  Homer, 
used  the  same  metaphor,  if  Pope's  translation  may  be  relied 
on ;  whilst  Virgil's  worthy  successor,  Ariosto,  reproduced  the 
imacre. 

The  ancient  Greeks,  who  regarded  Sleep  as  the  great  com- 
forter of  the  world,  gave  him  for  his  only  ornament  a  wreath 
of  poppies.  The  Romans  also  generally  adorned  the  statues 
of  Ceres,  the  beneficent  deity,  with  the  same  flowers. 

Our  great  neglected  poet,  Richard  Home,  in  "  Orion,"  one 
of  the  greatest  and  grandest  epics  of  modern  times,  introduces 
this  symbol  blossom  thus  : 

"He  approached 
And  found  the  spot,  so  sweet  with  clover  flower 
When  they  cast  them  down,  was  now  arrayed 
"With  many-headed  poppies,  like  a  crowd 
Of  dusky  Ethiops  in  a  magic  cirque, 
"Which  had  sprung  up  beneath  them  in  the  night, 
And  all  entranced  the  air." 


o^<aC^9^ 


Pink. 

(PURE    LOVE.) 

THE  Pink  is  another  of  those  beautiful  blossoms  made  use 
of  by  florigraphists  to  indicate  the  grand  passion,  it  being 
typical  of  pitre  love.  Florists  have  two  principal  divisions  of 
these  lovely  flowers — pinks  and  carnations.  The  latter  is  much 
larger  and  fuller  leaved,  but  not  more  fragrant,  than  its  little 
sister.  The  high  rank  which  this  extensive  genus  held  in  the 
estimation  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  may  be  learned  from  its 
nomenclature.  By  the  former  people  it  was  called  the  "  divine 
flower  "  ( diant Jilts ) ,  the  name  it  still  retains  ;  to  the  latter  race 
it  was  known  as  Flos  Jovis,  or  "Jove's  Flower;"  that  title, 
according  to  some,  being  bestowed  on  it  for  its  remarkable 
beauty ;  but  awarded  to  it,  others  say,  for  its  super-eminent 
fragrance. 

The  Bearded  Pink  is  better  known  as  the  Sweet  William, 
under  which  well-known  designation  it  will  be  found  in  this 
volume.  Of  one  type  of  this  odoriferous  group,  the  Clove 
Pink,  the  varieties  are  endless  ;  all  exhale  the  most  exquisite  of 
scents.  Whilst  the  larger  kinds  are  those  known  as  carnations, 
the  smaller  are  termed  "  gillyflowers,"  which  is  a  floral  name 
more  frequently  sung  of  by  our  ancient  poets,  from  dear  old 
Chaucer  downwards,  than  any  other.  This  cognomen  is 
supposed  to  be  a  corruption  of  "July  flower  ;"  but  that  deriva- 
tion has  been  much  questioned  of  late.  Michael  Drayton 
calls  it  ♦ 

"The  curious  choice  clove  July  flower, 

Whose  kinds,  hight  the  carnation, 
For  sweetness  of  most  sovereign  power 

Shall  help  my  wreath  to  fashion ; 
Whose  sundry  colours  of  one  kind, 

First  from  one  root  derived, 
Them  in  their  several  suits  I  '11  bind, 

Wy  garland  so  contrived." 


Pink.  143 

Shakspeare,  ever  ready  to  pay  a  floral  compliment,  makes 

•^^  "The  fairest  flowers  o'  the  season 

Are  our  carnations  and  streaked  gillyflowers. " 

And  the  readers  of  Spenser  and  Milton  will  find  these  flowers' 
names  "  as  familiar  in  their  mouths  as  household  words."  Some 
•of  our  old  authors  frequently  style  them  "  sops-in-wine,"  from 
the  fact,  it  is  alleged,  that  they  were  employed  in  flavouring 
dainty  dishes,  as  well  as  wine  and  other  drinks  ;  and  they  who 
maintain  this  theory  cite  a  rather  problematical  passage  of 
Chaucer's  in  support  of  it. 

The  authoress  of  "  Flora  Domestica,"  in  her  remarks  upon 
the  celebrity  which  these  flowers  have  attained  through  their 
loveliness  and  fragrance,  says  in  the  latter  they  are  equalled 
by  few  plants,  exceeded  perhaps  by  none.  As  the  rose  for  her 
beauty,  the  nightingale  for  his  song,  so  is  the  pink  noted  for 
its  sweetness.         ,,  .    .  ,^      ■  .     r       ^^    ,-  ■     „ 

"And  the  pmk,  or  smells  divnie, 

is  seldom  or  ever  forgotten  when  the  poets  would  celebrate  the 
charms  of  Flora. 

Matthisson,  the  German  author,  tells  of  a  pretty  little  inci- 
dent, in  which  the  carnation  plays  a  part.  He  was  near 
Grenoble,  in  France,  and  travelling  along  the  road  leading  to 
Mount  Cenis.  By  the  roadside  was  a  little  chapel  dedicated 
to  the  Blessed  Virgin.  Before  the  altar,  which  was  surmounted 
by  vases  of  flowers,  knelt  a  girl,  holding  in  her  hand  a  bouquet 
of  clove  carnations.  The  German  traveller  alighted  from  his 
carriage,  and,  seating  himself  upon  an  adjacent  rock,  watched 
the  fair  devotee,  whose  eyes  were  overrunning  with  tears.  Just 
as  she  arose  from  her  prayers,  a  young  man,  driving  some 
horses  before  him,  appeared  round  the  angle  of  the  road,  and 
the  instant  the  girl  perceived  him  she  flew  into  his  arms,  and, 
amid  smiles  and  tears,  presented  him  with  the  bouquet  of  car- 
nations, which  he  placed  with  reverential  care  in  the  bosom  of 
his  jacket.  The  traveller  continued  his  journey,  musing  over 
the  probable  consequences  of  the  approaching  separation — 
perhaps  the  flrst — of  these  young  lovers. 

Such  incidents  are  so  numerous  on  a  journey  through  life, 
that  they  appear  almost  too  trivial  for  record  ;  and  yet  they 
may  be  the  most  momentous  events  in  their  enactors'  histories. 


<i^ 


Furze. 

(ANGER.) 

''  I  ^HE  Ftii'ze  and  the  broom  so  closely  resemble  each  other, 
X  both  in  form  and  colour,  and  are  so  frequently  associated, 
that  the  former  is  sometimes  styled  by  botanists  Genista  spinosa 
— the  thorny  broom.  The  various  names  by  which  this  bril- 
liant wild  flower  is  known  in  different  parts  of  the  country 
often  puzzles  readers,  and  leaves  them  uncertain  as  to  the 
identity  of  the  plant.  In  the  south  it  is  called  furze,  whin  in 
the  east,  and  in  the  north,  gorse ;  and  that  is  how  the  confu- 
sion arises. 
Furze — 

**  The  vernal  furze, 
With  golden  baskets  hung," — 

grows  abundantly  on  all  our  waste  lands,  not  even  shunning 
the  neighbourhood  of  our  great  metropolis  itself;  and  it  is  re- 
corded that  Linnaeus,  who  had  never  seen  this  plant  in  Sweden, 
where  the  climate  is  too  severe  for  its  spontaneous  production, 
was  so  delighted  when  he  first  beheld  a  common  near  London 
bedecked  with  its  golden  blossom,  that  he  fell  on  his  knees, 
enraptured  at  the  sight.  Our  lost  singer,  Elizabeth  Barrett 
Browning,  in  some  dainty  lines  entitled  "Lessons  from  the 
Gorse,"  thus  alludes  to  this  story : 

"Mountain  gorses,  since  Linn3eu.s 
Knelt  beside  you  on  the  sod, 
For  your  beauty  thanking  God, — 
For  your  teaching  ye  should  see  us 
Bowing  in  prostration  new. 
Whence  arisen,  if  one  or  two 
Drops  be  on  our  cheeks,  O  worlds  !  they  are  not  tears,  but  dew, " 

After  such  poetry — poetry  where  lurks  hidden,  like  fragrance 
in  the  flower,  more  than  meets  the  casual  eye — how  difficult  it 


Furze.  145 

is  to  turn  to  chilly  prose,  and  recount  how  the  great  botanist 
conveyed  to  Sweden  some  plants  of  '^  the  prickly  gorse  that 
decks  itself  with  ornaments  of  gold,"  and  how  he  complained 
that  he  could  never  preserve  it  in  his  garden  through  the 
winter ! 

Even  strangers  who  come  from  those  sunny  southern  lands, 

"Where  the  rough  rocks  with  tender  myrtles  bloom," 

have  exhausted  the  powers  of  their  own  musical  language  in 
describing  their  feelings  of  admiration  whilst  looking  upon 
some  wild  common,  fragrant  with  the  perfume  and  resplendent 
with  the  lustrous  beauty  of  that  plant  which,  sings  Keats, 
"  buds  lavish  gold." 

Floral  caligraphists  employ  this  inimitable  blossom  as  the 
emblem  of  anger,  but  to  the  poetess  quoted  above  it  conveyed 
a  far  higher  import : 

"Mountain  blossoms,  shining  blossoms. 
Do  ye  teach  us  to  be  glad 
When  no  summer  can  be  had, 
BloominfT  in  our  inward  bosoms  ? 
Ye  whom  God  preserveth  still, 
Set  as  lights  upon  a  hill, 
Tokens  to  the  wintry  earth  that  Beauty  liveth  still ! 

''Mountain  gorses,  do  you  teach  us 
From  that  academic  chair 
Canopied  with  azure  air, 
That  the  wisest  word  man  reaches 
Is  the  humblest  he  can  speak  ? 
Ye  who  live  on  mountain  peak. 
Yet  live  low  along  the  ground,  beside  the  grasses  mecic ! 

Not  only,  indeed,  do  these  "shining  blossoms  teach  us  to 
be  glad,"  by  means  of  their  fragrance,  and  by  reason  of  the 
glowing  sea  of  golden  light  which  they  ofttimes  display  to  our 
gratified  vision,  but  by  the  numerous  valuable  uses  to  which 
they  can  be  put — uses  too  numerous  to  be  mentioned  here. 

"  In  calm  and  sunny  weather,"  says  a  floral  writer,  "  it  is 
pleasant  to  hear  the  crackling  sound  produced  by  the  explo- 
sion of  the  elastic  seed-vessels  among  furze-bushes,  resembling 
that  of  tiny  popguns,  such  as  fairies  might  be  supposed  to  use, 
if  those  small  people  ever  disturbed  their  pleasant  revels  with 
v/arlike  deeds." 

10 


Geranium. 

(DECEIT.) 

*' These  flowers  are  like  the  pleasures  of  the  world." 

Shakspeare. 

THERE  are  as  many  florigraphical  meanings  attached  to 
this  choice  flower  as  there  are  varieties  of  it,  and  tJieyy 
veritably,  are  numberless  ;  but  we  have  selected  the  symbol 
that  appears  to  appertain  to  the  genus  in  general.  The  name 
Geraniitin  is  derived  from  the  Greek,  and  signifies  a  crane,  the 
fruit  bearing  some  resemblance  to  the  form  of  a  crane's  bill 
and  head.  Indeed,  the  old  English  designation  for  the  wild 
species  of  this  flower  was  "  crane's-bill ; "  but  the  classic  form 
has  entirely  superseded  it  of  late,  as  it  has  also  consigned  to 
oblivion  its  other  title,  when  in  an  untamed  state,  of  Herb 
Robert. 

This  plant  is  divided  into  three  genera :  Erodiiirn,  Pclai'- 
goniiLin,  and  Gerajiiuuiy  respectively  signifying  *' heron's-bill," 
*'stork's-bill,"  and  "crane's-bill,"  all  of  which  names  are  de- 
rived from  their  blossoms'  fancied  resemblance  to  the  appen- 
dages of  those  birds. 

The  Scented  Geranium  is  considered  typical  of  preference,  a 
quality  for  which  the  softness  of  its  leaves,  the  beauty  of  its 
bloom,  and  its  fragrant  odour,  will  most  decidedly  obtain  it  the 
award.  It  emits  a  delightful  scent  when  lightly  rubbed  by  the 
finger ;  and  so  accustomed  are  people  to  use  this  experiment, 
that  a  person  approaching  a  geranium  almost  mechanically 
rubs  or  plucks  a  leaf  for  the  anticipated  perfume. 

"And  genteel  geranium, 
With  a  leaf  for  all  that  come," 

seldom  fails  to  obtain  notice  and  admiration,  even  when  sur- 


Geranium.  uj 


rounded  by  the  most  curious  or  brilliant  exotics ;  although, 
when  it  happens,  as  it  often  does,  that  the  plant  is  not  a  scented 
one,  the  experimentalist  fully  comprehends  why  it  is  deemed 
symbolic  of  deceit. 

The  Thick-stemmed  Geranium  is  a  very  singular  plant.  This 
species,  Mr,  Andrews  tells  us,  was  found  near  five  feet  high  in 
the  Bay  of  Angra  Peguena,  on  the  south-western  coast  of 
Africa,  in  the  chasm  of  a  white  marble  rock,  apparently  without 
any  earth  ;  for,  on  pulling  up  the  plant,  the  roots,  several  yards 
in  length,  were  naked  and  hard  as  wire,  and  appeared  to  have 
received  nourishment  solely  from  the  moisture  lodged  there 
during  the  rainy  season,  assisted  by  a  little  sand  drifted  by  the 
wind  into  the  cavities.  The  heat  was  so  intense  on  these  rocks 
as  to  blister  the  soles  of  the  feet ;  and  yet  all  the  geraniums 
there  were  in  perfection,  it  being  just  then  their  flowering 
season. 

All  the  most  admired  plants  of  the  geranium  family  are 
natives  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.  The  Scarlet  Geranium, 
which  is  not  only  the  most  common,  but  also  the  most  popular, 
of  all  this  genus,  is,  strange  to  say,  recorded  in  the  language 
of  flowers  as  the  emblem  of  stupidity.  It  is  one  of  the  most 
brilliant  of  our  floral  pets,  and  deservedly,  as  Cowper  remarks, 

*'  Geranium  boasts 
Her  crimson  honours." 

A  favourite  game   is  played  at   Rome,  in  which  the  leaf 

of  the  geranium  is  employed.     This  game  is  styled  ''Far  il 

Verde','  and  seems  to  consist  principally  in  obtaining  forfeits 

from  one  another.   Its  rules  are  too  tedious  and  far-fetched  for 

English  sympathies. 

Herb  Robert,  the  vv^ld  species  of  this  flower,  has  received 
many  poetic  tributes  :  the  following  verses  are  extracted  from 
a  poem  addressed  to  it : 

**  There  is  a  small  hut  lovely  flower, 

Vv^ith  crimson  star  and  calyx  brown, 
On  pathway  side,  beneath  the  bower, 
By  Nature's  hand  profusely  strown. 

•'There  are  its  rosy  petals  shown, 

'Midst  curious  forms  and  mosses  rare, 
Imbedded  in  the  dark  grey  stone, 
When  not  another  flower  is  there." 

10—2 


Fuchsia. 

(TASTE.) 

'T^HE  Fuchsia,  a  native  of  Chili,  was  named  after  Leonard 
X       Fuchs,  a  noted  German  botanist. 

Mr.  Shepherd,  the  conservator  of  the  Botanic  Gardens  at 
Liverpool,  gives  the  following  interesting  account  of  the  intro- 
duction of  this  elegant  little  flowering  shrub  into  our  English 
gardens  and  greenhouses. 

Old  Mr.  Lee,  a  nurseryman  and  gardener  near  London, 
well  known  fifty  or  sixty  years  ago,  was  one  day  showing  his 
variegated  treasures  to  a  friend,  who  suddenly  turned  round 
and  exclaimed,  "  Well,  you  have  not  in  your  collection  a  pret- 
tier flower  than  I  saw  this  morning  at  Wapping."  "  Indeed  ? 
and  pray  what  was  this  phoenix  like  } "  was  the  rejoinder. 
"  Why,  the  plant  was  elegant,  and  the  flowers  hung  in  rows 
like  tassels  from  the  pendent  branches,  their  colour  the  richest 
crimson,  and  in  the  centre  a  fold  of  deep  purple."  Obtaining 
minute  direction  of  the  spot,  Mr.  Lee  posted  off  to  Wapping, 
and  on  discovering  the  abode,  he  at  once  perceived  that  the 
plant  was  new  in  this  part  of  the  world.  Entering  the  house, 
which  was  tenanted  by  a  sailor's  wife,  he  said,  "  My  good 
woman,  this  is  a  nice  plant ;  I  should  like  to  buy  it."  "  Ah,  sir ! 
I  could  not  part  with  it  for  any  money  :  my  husband  brought 
it  from  the  West  Indies  for  me,  and  I  promised  when  he  went 
to  sea  again  to  keep  it  for  his  sake."  "■  But  I  must  have  it ! " 
"  No,  sir."  "  Here — (emptying  his  pocket) — here  are  gold,  silver, 
copper."  (His  stock  was  something  more  than  eight  guineas.) 
"Well-a-day!  but  this  is  a  power  of  money,  sure  and  sure!"  "'Tis 
yours,  and  the  plant  is  mine ;  and,  my  good  dame,  you  shall 
have  one  of  the  first  young  ones  I  rear,  to  keep  for  your  hus- 
band's sake."  "Alack  !  you'll  promise  me?"  "You  shall,  by 
Jove  you  shall ! "     A  coach  was  called,  in  which  was  safely 


Fuchsia.  149 

deposited  our  florist  and  his  purchase.  His  first  work  on 
reaching  home  was  to  pull  off  and  utterly  destroy  every  ves- 
tige of  blossom  and  blossom  bud  ;  it  was  divided  into  cuttings, 
which  were  forced  in  hotbeds  and  bark-beds,  were  re-divided 
and  sub-divided.  Every  effort  V\^as  used  to  multiply  the  plant, 
and  by  the  commencement  of  the  next  flo,wering  season  Mr. 
Lee  was  the  delighted  possessor  of  three  hundred  fuchsia 
plants,  all  giving  promise  of  blossom.  The  two  v/hich  opened 
first  were  removed  into  his  show-house.  A  lady  came.  '*  Why, 
Mr.  Lee — my  dear  Mr.  Lee  !  where  did  you  get  this  charming 
flower  t  "  "  Hem  !  't  is  a  new  thing,  my  lady  :  pretty,  is  it  not?" 
"  Pretty  .'^  't  is  lovely !  Its  price.''"  "A  guinea.  Thank  you, 
my  lady."  And  one  of  the  two  plants  was  at  once  carried  off 
to  her  ladyship's  boudoir.  Scarcely  had  the  flower  reached 
its  new  domicile  than  a  visitor  arrived,  saw,  and  admired  the 
new  floral  acquisition  ;  and  learning  that  there  was  another 
left,  ordered  her  carriage  off  at  once  to  Mr.  Lee's.  A  third 
flowering  plant  stood  on  the  spot  whence  the  first  had  been 
taken.  The  second  guinea  was  paid,  and  the  second  fuchsia 
found  its  way  to  the  residence  of  her  second  ladyship.  The 
scene  was-  repeated  as  new-comers  came,  saw,  and  were  con- 
quered by  the  beauty  of  the  plant.  New  chariots  flew  to  the 
gates  of  old  Lee's  nursery-ground.  Two  fuchsias,  young, 
graceful,  and  bursting  into  healthy  flower,  were  constantly 
seen  on  the  same  spot  in  his  repository. 

He  neglected  not  to  gladden  the  sailor's  wife  by  the  pro- 
mised gift ;  but  ere  the  flower  season  closed,  three  hundred 
golden  guineas  chinked  in  his  purse,  the  produce  of  the  single 
plant  of  the  good-wife  of  Wapping ;  the  reward  of  the  taste, 
decision,  skill,  and  perseverance  of  old  Mr.  Lee. 


Almond-Tree. 

(INDISCRETION.) 

THIS  fragrant  forerunner  of  spring  has  been  adopted  by- 
Western  florigraphists  as  the  emblem  of  indiscretion, 
on  account  of  its  flowering  so  early  that  its  beautiful  pink 
blossoms  are  frequently  prevented  from  fructifying,  because  of 
the  injury  they  sustain  from  the  frost.  With  Oriental  nations, 
however,  the  almond  has  a  very  different  but  quite  as  appro- 
priate signification.  The  Mahommedans  regard  its  flowers  as 
typical  of  Jiope,  because  they  bloom  on  the  bare  branches. 
Moore,  with  his  usual  felicity  of  expression,  has  thus  availed 
himself  of  this  pretty  allegory  : 

"  The  dream  of  a  future  happier  hour 
That  alights  on  misery's  brow, 
Springs  out  of  the  silvery  almond  flower 
That  blooms  on  a  leafless  bough." 

Pleasant  a  sight  to  our  ^y^?,  as  Is  this  tree  in  blossom,  in 
Oriental  climes  it  is  seen  in  far  greater  perfection.  It  grows 
to  between  twenty  and  thirty  feet  high,  and  the  blooms 
spread  from  one  end  of  the  young  branches  to  the  other,  as 
thickly  as  they  can  grow,  and  before  a  leaf  is  to  be  seen.  The 
Hebrew  writers,  who  regarded  the  almond  as  a  symbol  of 
haste  and  vigilance,  frequently  refer  to  it.  "What  seest  thou  ? " 
said  the  Lord  to  Jeremiah ;  and  the  prophet  answered,  "  I  see 
a  rod  of  an  almond-tree."  Then  said  the  Lord,  "  Thou  hast 
seen  well ;  for  I  will  hasten  my  word  and  perform  it." 

The  rod  of  Aaron,  which  budded  and  brought  forth  fruit, 
was  of  the  almond-tree  :  *'  it  budded,  and  brought  forth  buds, 
and  bloomed  blossoms,  and  yielded  almonds."  A  writer  on 
Scriptural  plants,  remarking  on  an  allusion  made  to  the  al- 
mond in  the  twelfth  chapter  of  that  magnificent  poem,  Ecclesi- 
astes,  says,  ''The  almond-tree,  covered  with  its  snow-white 
blossoms,  is  a  beautiful  poetic  emblem  of  the  hoary  head,  and 


Almond-Tree. 


151 


the  casting  of  the  blossoms  might  further  represent  the  shed- 
ding of  the  silver  locks  from  the  venerable  brows  of  age." 

The  Hebrew  name  of  this  tree  is  '^  shakad^'  which  means  to 
make  haste,  or  to  awake  early. 

The  ancient  fabulists,  who  had  some  beautiful  legend  to 
account  for  all  the  phenomena  of  nature,  ascribed  the  origin 
of  the  almond-tree  to  Phyllis,  a  young  and  beautiful  Thracian 
queen,  who  became  enamoured  of  and  wedded  Demophoon, 
the  son  of  Theseus  and  Phsedra,  and  who,  on  his  return  from  the 
siege  of  Troy,  had  been  cast  by  a  storm  upon  the  shores  of 
Thrace.  Recalled  to  Athens  by  his  father's  death,  the  royal 
consort  promised  to  return  in  a  month,  but  failing  to  do  so, 
the  afflicted  bride  gradually  lost  all  hopes  of  seeing  him  again, 
and,  after  several  unfruitful  visits  to  the  sea-shore,  died  of  grief, 
and  was  transformed  into  an  almond-tree.  After  three  months' 
absence  the  truant  husband  returned,  and,  overwhelmed  with 
sorrow,  offered  a  sacrifice  by  the  sea-shore  to  appease  the 
manes  of  his  luckless  bride.  Loving  even  in  death,  she  ap- 
peared to  respond  to  his  repentance  ;  for  the  almond-tree,  into 
which  she  was  metamorphosed,  instantly  put  forth  flowers, 
as  if  to  prove  by  one  last  effort  the  unchangeableness  of  her 
affection. 

In  former  times  an  abundance  of  blossom  on  the  almond- 
tree  was  regarded  as  the  omen  of  a  fruitful  season. 


Flos  Adonis. 

(PAINFUL     RECOLLECTIONS.) 

THIS  emblem  of  pamful  recolleciions  has  received  as  many- 
names  as  a  Spanish  princess.  To  Gerarde  it  was  known 
as  May-flower  and  red  camomile ;  but  he  says,  "our  London 
women  do  call  it  rose-a-rubie."  Red  morocco  and  pheasant's 
eye  are  also  amongst  its  cognomens,  but,  Adonis  flower  and 
Flos  Adonis  are  the  titles  by  which  it  is  at  present  recognized. 
To  the  poetical  Greeks  it  was  known  as  the  Spring-flower  ;  by 
the  French  it  is  termed  "  drops  of  blood,"  or  goiittes  de  saiigy 
in  allusion  to  the  fable  which  ascribes  its  origin  to  the  blood  of 
Adonis.  In  all  probability  the  flower  received  its  classic  name 
of  Adonis  from  being  confounded  with  the  anemone,  which  it 
resembles.  They,  however,  are  not  the  only  blossoms  which 
lay  claim  to  the  same  illustrious  origin  :  the  larkspur  has  been 
put  forward  as  an  aspirant  for  this  honour,  but  its  claim  has 
obtained  very  few  advocates.  Moschus  gives  the  right  to  the 
rose,  as  also  did  Bion,  in  his  well-known  "Lament  for  Adonis," 
of  which  the  words  in  question  are  thus  rendered  by  Mrs. 
Browning,  in  her  translation  of  the  poem  : 

**  She  wept  tear  after  tear,  with  the  blood  which  was  shed, 
And  both  turned  into  flowers  for  the  earth's  garden-close  ; 
Her  tears  to  the  wind-flower — his  blood  to  the  rose." 

Some  will  have  it  that  the  identical  bloom — whichever  one 
it  was,  and  quaint  old  Gerarde  would  persuade  us  that  it  was 
the  Venice  mallow — sprang  up  entirely  from  the  tears  shed  by 
Venus.  When  doctors  differ  it  is  hard  to  come  to  an  under- 
standing, and  therefore  we  will  content  ourselves  with  the  re- 
flection that  whatever  flower  it  was  that  came  of  such  renowned 
parentage,  this  pretty  crimson  blossom  most  decidedly  deserves 


Flos  Adonis. 


153 


it.  In  the  southern  corn-fields  of  England  it  is  very  often  seen, 
lifting  up  its  deep  red  cup  amongst  the  green  slender  leaves 
of  the  barley  and  wheat  long  before  their  grain  appears.  Like 
its  namesake  the  beautiful  hunter,  it  is  said  to  be  an  enemy  to 
the  corn  ;  but  its  bright  and  transient  blossoms  fade  quickly 
— as  quickly,  let  us  hope,  as  the  recollections  which  they 
symbolize. 

In  Leigh  Hunt's  "  Foliage,"  there  is  a  translation  from  the 
Greek  pastoral  poet  Theocritus,  which  alludes  to  the  classic 
story  that  this  favourite  of  Venus  was  allowed  to  revisit  and 
spend  six  months  of  the  year  with  her  on  earth,  alternately 
with  six  months  spent  with  Proserpine  in  the  lower  regions : 


"  Go,  beloved  Adonis,  go, 
Year  "by  year  thus  to  and  fro." 


^„» 


Arbutus. 

(THEE    ONLY    DO    I   LOVE.) 

THE  Arbittus,  or  strawberry-tree,  as  it  is  frequently  called 
ill  England  and  France,  because  of  the  resemblance  of 
its  fruit  to  a  strawberry,  is  one  of  those  rare  and  delightful 
objects  on  which  Nature,  with  a  lavish  profusion,  showers  at 
one  time  bud,  blossom,  and  fruit. 

This  beautiful  symbol  of  inseparable  love  requires  a  whole 
twelvemonth  to  perfect  its  fruit,  so  that  in  the  autumn  of  the 
year,  when  other  trees  and  flowers  are  shedding  their  withered 
leaves  and  petals  on  the  ground,  the  lovely  arbutus  may  be 
seen,  with  its  rich  red  strawberry-like  fruit — clusters  of  waxen- 
hued  blossoms,  their  vine-coloured  stems,  and  its  green  leaves, 
resembling  those  of  the  bay  —  all  flourishing  in  unstinted 
abundance,  thus  realizing  the  poetic  fiction  of  fruit  and  flowers 
growing  together. 

Surely  this  sweet  emblem  of  a  sweeter  theme  passed  through 
the  mind  of  Thomson,  Avhen,  in  his  "  Seasons,"  he  talked  of 
how 

"Great  Spring,  before, 
Greened  all  the  year ;  and  fruit  and  blossoms  blushed 
In  social  sweetness  on  the  selfsame  bough." 

Sir  Arthur  Elton,  it  is  presumed,  is  the  author  of  the  follow- 
ing truthful  description  of  this  botanical  phenomenon : 

"  The  leafy  arbute  spreads 
A  snow  of  blossoms,  and  on  every  bough 
Its  vermeil  fruitage  glitters  to  the  sun," 

The  fruit  of  the  common  arbutus  is  called  unedo;  and  Pliny 
is  said  to  have  given  it  that  name  because  it  was  so  bitter  that 
only  one  could  be  eaten  at  a  time.  In  Spain  and  Italy,  how- 
ever, the  country-people  eat  them,  and  in  the  early  ages  it 


Arbutus.  155 

appears  to  have  been  a  common  article  of  food.  In  Padua, 
and  other  ItaHan  cities,  they  are  still  sold  in  the  markets  ; 
whilst  the  English  and  American  confectioners  are  reported  to 
use  large  quantities  of  the  thyme-leaved  arbutus-berries  as  a 
substitute  for  cranberries,  which  fruit  they  resemble. 

Horace  has  celebrated  the  arbutus  in  his  odes,  whilst  his 
predecessor,  Virgil,  very  frequently  mentions  it,  and,  in  the 
*'  ^neid,"  describes  the  bier  of  Evander's  son,  young  Pallas, 
as  formed  of  arbutus  rods  and  oaken  twigs.  Sannazaro  speaks 
of  the  arbutus  as  employed,  together  with  other  symbolic  trees 
and  flowers,  at  the  celebration  of  the  festival  in  honour  of  Pales, 
a  rural  goddess  of  the  Romans. 

In  Barthelemy's  "  Travels  of  Anacharsis  the  Younger,"  this 
tree  is  spoken  of  as  growing  on  Mount  Ida — as  attaining  a 
considerable  height,  and,  above  all,  being  of  such  virtue  that 
serpents  ceased  to  be  venomous  after  feeding  upon  its  fruit, 
which  fruit  the  neighbouring  peasants  consider  exquisitely 
sweet.  These  trees,  of  course,  belonged  to  the  Oriental  arbutus, 
or  andrachney  as  it  is  generally  called.  Dallaway  speaks  of  it 
as  abounding  in  the  vicinity  of  the  far-famed  Miletus,  and 
states  that  the  fruit  resembles  a  scarlet  strawberry  both  in  size 
and  flavour. 

This  same  traveller  states  that  it  grows  in  wild  luxuriance, 
amid  myrtles  and  roses,  about  Belgrade — a  place  that  Lady 
Mary  Montague  described  in  her  charming  letters  as  a, perfect 
Paradise,  but  which  modern  progress  has  wonderfully  trans- 
mogrified into  something  very  different. 

Evelyn  complained  sadly  in  his  time  of  the  neglect  shown 
to  this  lovely  child  of  Nature,  and  at  the  present  day  he  would 
scarcely  find  much  to  cause  an  alteration  in  his  tone. 


3^-? 


#^u^ 


<nj^ 


Snowdrop. 

(FRIEND    IN    NEED  — HOPE.) 

THIS  first-born  flower  of  the  flowers  of  spring  is  generally 
deemed  the  emblem  of  /lo/^e,  although  some  have  regarded 
it  as  symbolic  of  humility,  of  gratitude,  of  consolation,  of  in- 
nocence, and  lastly,  but  by  no  means  least — of  friendship  in 
adversity. 

In  the  year's  earliest  days,  while  the  leafless  trees  and  the 
otherwise  flowerless  ground  are  white  with  frost — when  the 
sharp  winds  are  roaring  over  the  wold,  and  when  the  whole 
earth  looks  dead  and  drear — this  fragile  blossom,  gently  dis- 
placing the  incumbent  snow,  uprears  its  tiny  fairy  bells  and 
its  tender  little  green  leaves,  looks  smilingly  into  our  admiring 
faces,  and  seems  to  bid  our  chilled  hearts  take  courage — to 
remind  us  that  "hope  springs  eternal  in  the  human  breast," 
and,  as  Mrs.  Oakes  Smith  has  so  beautifully  expressed  in  "The 
Sinless^Child," 

"And  wheresoe'er  the  weary  heart 
Turns  in  its  dim  despair, 
The  meek-eyed  blossom  upward  looks, 
Inviting  it  to  prayer." 

The  classic  name  for  this  flower  is  galanthits,  signifying  milk 
flower ;  it  is  the  earliest  blower  of  all  our  wild  blossoms — in 
mild  seasons  displaying  its  beauties  even  in  January,  but  more 
frequently  waiting  until  the  following  month,  for  which  reason 
it  is  sometimes  named  "  Fair  Maid  of  February." 

In  allusion  to  its  often  uprearing  its  head  amid  the  snow,  as 
if  to  rival  its  purity  and  whiteness,  Mrs.  Barbauld  has : 

"As  Flora's  breath,  by  some  transforming  power, 


Had  chang-ed  an  icicle  into  a  flower. 


Mary  Robinson,  a  now  almost  forgotten  poetess,  has  left  u 
the  following  pretty  verses  on  this  little  flower : 


I 


Snowdrop.  157 


"The  snowdrop,  Winter's  timid  ciiild, 
Awakes  to  life,  bedewed  with  tears, 
And  flings  around  its  fragrance  mild  ; 
And,  where  no  rival  flow'rets  bloom 
Amidst  the  bare  and  chilling  gloom, 
A  beauteous  gem  appears. 

*  *  *  * 

**  Where'er  I  find  thee,  gentle  flower, 

Thou  still  art  sweet  and  dear  to  me ! 
For  I  have  known  the  cheerless  hour, 
Have  seen  the  sunbeams  cold  and  pale, 
Have  felt  the  chilling  wintry  gale, 

And  wept  and  shrunk  like  thee." 

Mrs.  Robinson  is  correct  in  endowing  the  snowdrop  with 
"  fragrance  mild  ;  "  Mrs.  Barbauld  styles  it  "  the  scentless 
plant,"  and,  although  her  evidence  is  corroborated  by  these 
lines  of  Mrs.  Charlotte  Smith,  the  snowdrop  has  a  faint  per- 
fume : 

"Like  pendent  flakes  of  vegetating  snow. 
The  early  herald  of  the  infant  year, 
Ere  yet  the  adventurous  crocus  dares  to  blow. 
Beneath  the  orchard  boughs  thy  buds  appear. 

"While  still  the  cold  north-east'ungenial  lowers. 
And  scarce  the  hazel  in  the  leafless  copse 
Or  shallows  show  their  downy  powdered  flowers, 
The  grass  is  spangled  with  thy  silver  drops. 

"Yet  when  those  pallid  blossoms  shall  give  place 
To  countless  tribes  of  richer  hue  and  scent. 
Summer's  gay  blooms,  and  Autumn's  yellow  race, 
I  shall  thy  pale  inodorous  bells  lament," 

These  poetic  specimens  prove  not  only  the  favour  this  floral 
"  day  star  "  finds  with  the  poets,  but  also,  what  may  be  more  to 
the  present  purpose,  with  the  ladies.  Women  and  flowers  are 
a  natural  and  every-day  association — ''sweets  to  the  sweet;" 
and  there  does  not  appear  anything  so  very  singular  in  the 
fact  that  in  the  Malayan  tongue  the  same  word  signifies  women 
and  flowers. 

The  snowdrop  is  dedicated  to  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  tradition 
asserts  that  it  blooms  on  the  second  of  February,  or  Candlemas 
Day — the  day  kept  in  celebration  as  that  on  which  the  Holy 
Virgin  took  the  child  Jesus  to  the  Jewish  TemjDle.  and  there 
presented  an  offering. 


Cowslip. 

(YOUTHFUL    BEAUTY.) 

THIS  elegant  but  fragile  flower  is  one  of  those  favourites 
which  our  olden  poets  so  delighted  to  honour.  The 
"pale  cowslip  fit  for  maidens'  early  bier,"  is  the  most  appro- 
priate emblem  for  yoiLtJiful  beauty ;  and,  under  that  typical 
meaning,  is  frequently  found  associated  in  the  songs  of  our 
minstrels  with  all  that  is  fair  and  frail. 

Milton  takes  advantage  of  the  gracefulness  of  its  drooping 
plume  of  blossoms,  waving  over  their  slender  stem,  to  place 
upon  the  tomb  of  Lycidas,  amid  such  gentle  flowers  as  sad 
embroidery  wear,  *'  Cowslips  wan  that  hang  the  pensive  head." 

Our  great  epicist,  in  his  sylvan  masque  of  '*  Comus,"  has 
given  an  exquisite  song  to  Sabrina,  in  which  the  airy  tread  of 
that  goddess  "  o'er  the  cowslip's  velvet  head  "  is  most  delicately 
expressed : 

**  Y.y  the  ruslay,  fringed  bank, 
Where  grow  the  ^^'illo\v  and  tlie  osier  dankj 

My  shding  chariot  stays  ; 
Thick  set  with  agate  and  the  azure  sheen 
Of  turkis  bhie  and  emerald  green, 

That  in  the  channel  strays ; 
Whilst  from  off  the  waters  fleet, 
Thus  I  set  my  printless  feet, 
O'er  the  cowslip's  velvet  head, 
That  bends  not  as  I  tread. 
Gentle  swain,  at  thy  request 
I  am  here." 

The  cowslip  belongs  to  the  same  genus  as  the  primrose,  and 
rs  supposed  to  have  received  its  name  from  its  soft  velvety 
texture,  resembling  that  of  a  lip  ;  but  Yorkshire  people  call  it 
*' cowstripling,"  which  certainly  points  to  another  origin.  In 
some  parts  of  Kent  it  is  called  "  fairy  cup,"  whilst  in  the  mid- 
land and  northern  portions  of  Britain  this  flower  of  many 
names  is  known  as  "  paigle." 


Cowslip.  f59 

The  blossoms  exhale  a  quaint  odour  which  some  persons 
deem  very  fragrant.  The  roots,  which  are  collected  in  March, 
and  dried,  have  a  strong  scent  of  anise.  It  is  said  they  impart 
a  flavour  to  wine.  A  sweet  and  pleasant  liquor,  considered  by 
some  people  to  resemble  Muscadel,  is  made  from  the  flowers ; 
it  is  slightly  narcotic  in  its  effects.     Says  Pope : 

"  For  want  of  rest, 
Lettuce  and  cowslip  wine — -probatum  esty 

In  former  times,  before  it  w^as  considered  pleasant  to  poison 
oneself  with  decoctions  of  logwood,  and  even  worse  concomi- 
tants, cowslip  wine  was  much  drunk  ;  and  many  a  maiden 
could  say  of  this,  as  Christabel  did  of  her  wild-flower  drink, 

"  It  is  a  wine  of  virtuous  powers ; 
My  mother  made  it  of  wild  flowers." 

In  some  sweet,  secluded,  out-of-the-way  country  villages,  a 
glass  of  cowslip  wine  may  still  be  had  ;  and  many  a  little 
cottage  maiden  still  rambles  the  meadows  collecting  its  pallid 
blossoms  to  dispose  of  in  the  market  for  a  trifle  wherewith  to 
get  ''  a  fairing." 

Country  folks  eat  the  pretty  crinkly  leaves  as  a  salad  ;  and, 
as  a  substitute  for  mulberry-leaves,  they  are  much  recom- 
mended; so  that  altogether  the  cowslip  may  be  considered  a 
very  useful,  as  well  as  ornamental,  plant. 

The  colour  of  the  flower  is  generally  a  bright  yellow,  dashed 
with  deep  orange,  sometimes  approaching  to  crimson. 

Jachimo  describes  Imogen  as  having 

"  On  her  left  breast 
A  mole  cinque-spotted,  like  the  crimson  drops 
I'  the  bottom  of  a  cowslip." 

Elsewhere,  Shakspeare,  speaking  of  the  Fairy  Queen,  says, 

*'Tlie  cowslips  tall  her  pensioners  be  ; 
In  their  gold  coats  spots  we  see ; 
Those  be  nibies,  fairy  favours, — 
In  those  freckles  live  their  savours ; 
I  must  go  seek  some  dewdrops  here, 
And  hang  a  pearl  in  every  cowslip's  er.r." 

These  flowers  furnish  an  abundant  supply  of  honey  to  the 
bee,  for. 


joo  Cowslip. 

"  Rich  in  vegetable  gold, 
From  calyx  pale  the  freckled  cowslip  born, 
Receives  in  amber  cups  the  fragrant  dews  of  morn." 

Ben  Jonson  combines  this  flower  with  another  well-known 
wilding  of  Nature,  and  sings  of 

"Bright  day's  eyes,  and  the  lips  of  cows." 

Mrs.  Sigourney,  in  her  "  Gossip  with  a  Bouquet,"  thus, 
suggestively  introduces  the  emblem  oi youtJifid  beauty, 

"  Good  neighbour  cowslip,  I  have  seen  the  bee 
Whispering  to  you,  and  have  been  told  he  stays 
Quite  long  and  late  amid  your  golden  cells. 
Is  it  not  business  that  he  comes  upon — 
Matter  of  fact?    He  never  wastes  an  hour. 
Know  you  that  he  's  a  subtle  financier, 
And  shows  some  gain  for  every  day  he  spends  ? 
Oh !  learn  from  him  the  priceless  worth  of  time, 
Thou  fair  and  frail !    So  shalt  thou  prove  the  truth, 
That  he  who  makes  companion  of  the  wise 
Shall  in  their  wisdom  share." 

The  Virginian  Cowslip,  deemed  symbolic  of  the  rather 
ostentatious  expression,  yoit  ai^e  my  divinity ,  is  a  very  elegant 
plant  that  flowers  in  April  and  May.  From  the  centre  of  a 
tuft  of  broad  leaves,  lying  flat  upon  the  mould,  rises  a  single 
graceful  shaft,  surmounted  by  twelve  pretty  purple  or  peach- 
coloured  inverted  blossoms.  Linnseus  ''christened  it  by  the 
name  of  "  Dodecatheon,  or  Twelve  Divinities." 

This  plant  will  endure  our  most  severe  winters,  but  cannot 
sustain  the  heat,  and  two  or  three  days'  exposure  to  a  hot 
sun  v/ill,  it  is  said,  entirely  destroy  the  offsets. 

Those  flowers  styled  "  Cowslips  of  Jerusalem,"  although 
they  much  resemble  the  veritable  cowslip  in  form,  belong  to 
an  entirely  different  race.  Their  colours  are  very  varied  in 
hue,  not  only  in  the  same  cluster,  but  even  on  the  individual 
blossoms  their  manifold  shades  of  red  and  blue  are  continually 
changing. 

Drayton,  in  his  "  Pastorals,"  introduces  this  flower  into  very 
honourable  floral  company : 

"  Tvlaids,  get  the  choicest  flowers,  a  garland,  and  entwine, 
Nor  pinks  nor  pansies  let  there  want — be  sure  of  eglantine. 

n(-  -tF  ^  ^  TP  t^  W 

"White  roses,  damask,  white  and  red,  the  dearest  flower-de-Iys, 
The  cowslip  of  Jeiaisalem,  and  clove  of  Paradise." 


Celandine. 

(DECEPTIVE      HOPES.) 

THIS  emblem  of  deceptive  hopes  derives  its  botanical  name 
from  a  Greek  word  signifying  a  swallow,  because,  say 
some,  of  its  coming  and  going  with  that  bird  ;  but  our  old 
fiorigraphists  give  a  different  reason  ;  and  according  to  Ge- 
rarde,  it  was  so  called  from  an  opinion  which  prevailed  among 
the  country  people,  that  the  old  swallows  used  it  to  restore 
sight  to  their  young  when  their  eyes  were  out.  This  idea  is 
supported  by  Lyte,  wh5,  in  his  rare  old  "  Herbal,"  speaking  of 
the  larger  celandine,  gravely  remarks:  "  Chelidonium,  that  is 
to  say,  swallow-herbe  ;  bycause,  as  Plinie  writeth,  it  was  the 
first  found  out  by  swallowes,  and  hath  healed  the  eyes  and 
restored  sight  to  their  young  ones  that  have  had  harme  in 
their  eyes  or  have  been  blinde."  In  Culpepper^s  "  Herbal "  we 
also  find  this  flower  recommended  for  its  virtues  in  restoring 
the  eyesight.  Says  that  veracious  student  of  nature  :  "  This 
is  a  herb  of  the  sun,  and  under  the  celestial  lion,  and  is  one  of 
the  best  cures  for  the  eyes  ;  for  all  that  know  anything  in  as- 
trology know  that  the  eyes  are  subject  to  the  Arminaries.  .  .  . 
Make  it  into  an  oil  or  ointment,  which  you  please,  to  anoint 
your  sore  eyes  with  :  I  can  prove  it  both  by  my  own  expe- 
rience and  the  experience  of  those  to  whom  I  have  taught  it, 
that  desperate  sore  eyes  have  been  cured  by  this  only  medi- 
cine. ...  It  is  called  cJielidonium,  from  the  Greek  word 
chelidon,  which  signifies  a  swallow,  because  they  say  that  if 
you  put  out  the  eyes  of  young  swallows  when  they  are  in  the 
nest,  the  old  ones  will  recover  them  again  with  this  herb. 
This  I  am  confident,  for  I  have  tried  it,  that  if  we  mar  the 
very  apples  of  their  eyes  with  a  needle,  she  will  recover  them 
again  ;  but  whether  with  this  herb  or  not,  I  know  not." 

Notwithstanding  the  opinions  of  these  time-honoured  men, 

11 


l62 


Celandine. 


it  is  pretty  well  known  now-a-days  that  the  only  benefit  the 
sight  gets  from  these  wild  blossoms  is  in  the  pleasure  derived 
from  gazing  upon  them. 

The  cheerful-looking  little  flower  called  the  "lesser  celan- 
dine," deemed  emblematical  oi  joys  to  come,  belongs  to  another 
floral  family,  quite  distinct  from  the  swallow- wort  or  major 
celandine.  It  resembles  the  buttercup  in  colour,  but  is  formed 
like  a  star,  with  heart-shaped  leaves.  The  blossoms  appear 
very  early  in  spring,  and  at  night  and  in  wet  weather  fold  up 
their  petals,  which  instinctive  precaution  probably  preserves 
them  from  the  destructive  elements.  When  the  glossy  golden 
flowers  fall  off,  they  are  succeeded  by  small  tubers  resembling 
grains  of  wheat ;  these  tubers  grow  from  the  bosom  of  the 
leaves,  and,  as  the  stalks  lie  upon  the  ground,  grow  into  the 
earth  and  become  the  roots  of  new  plants.  The  stalks  often 
being  washed  bare  by  the  heavy  rains  have  induced  the  unin- 
vestigating  to  report  that  it  had  rained  wheat. 

The  glossy  star-like  blossoms  and  lustrous  green  leaves  of 
this  little  flower  seem  to  have  rendered  it  a  great  favourite  with 
Wordsworth,  as  he  has  repeatedly  sung  praises  of  its  "  bright 
coronet : " 


"Pansies,  lilies,  kingcups,  daisies. 
Let  them  live  upon  their  praises  % 
Long  as  there 's  a  sun  that  sets^ 
Primroses  will  have  their  glory ; 

Long  as  there  are  violets, 
They  will  have  a  place  in  story. 
There 's  a  flower  that  shall  be  mine, 
'T  is  the  little  celandine. 


* 


« 


« 


**I11  befall  the  yellow  flowers, 
Children  of  the  flaring  hours  ! 
Buttercups  that  will  be  seen, 
Whether  we  will  see  or  no  ; 

Others,  too,  of  lofty  mien  ; 
They  have  done  as  worldlings  do, 
Taken  praise  that  should  be  thine, 
Little  humble  celandine ! 


*'Ere  a  leaf  is  on  the  bush. 
In  the  time  before  the  thrush 

Has  a  thought  about  its  nest, 
Thou  wilt  come  with  half  a  call, 

Spreading  out  thy  glossy  breast 
Like  a  careless  prodigal ; 
Telling  tales  about  the  sun. 
When  we  've  little  warmth  or  none. 


* 


* 


* 


**  Prophet  of  delight  and  mirth, 
Scorned  and  slighted  upon  earth ; 

Herald  of  a  mighty  band, 
Of  a  joyous  train  ensuing  ; 

Singing  at  my  heart's  command, 
In  the  lanes  my  thoughts  pursuing  ; 
I  will  sing,  as  doth  behove. 
Hymns  in  praise  of  what  I  love." 


# 


Dead   Leaves. 

(MELANCHOLY.) 

**  Ah  me  !  a  leaf  with  sighs  can  wring 
My  Hps  asunder. " 

E.  B.  Browning. 

NEVER  did  the  florlgraphist  select  from  nature  a  more 
appropriate  interpreter  of  man's  innermost  passions 
than  when  he  chose  dead  leaves  as  representative  of  melancholy. 
Never  did  poet  utter  a  more  profound  truth  than  he  who  said, 

*'When  we  are  sad,  to  sadness  we  apply 
Each  plant,  and  flower,  and  leaf  that  meets  the  eye." 

True  sadness  so  intensifies — it  might  be  said  so  exaggerates 
— the  meaning  of  everything  beheld  through  its  misty  veil, 
that  we  fancy  all  that  is  seen  is  connected  with  our  own  es- 
pecial sorrow;  gradually  grow  egotistical  in  our  grief;  and  then 
finally — so  beautifully  does  the  machinery  of  this  existence 
"  work  together  for  good  " — by  the  very  self-contemplation 
which  appeared  calculated  to  perpetuate  our  melancholy,  for- 
get it,  or  rather  perceive  that  it  leaves  behind  nothing  but 
soothing  memories.  It  does  not  require  a  poet  to  discover 
"that  there  is  a  lesson  in  each  leaf;"  the  youth  or  maid  whom 
melancholy  hath  marked  for  its  own  will  speedily  read  and  com- 
prehend the  silent  monitor.  But  how  different  may  be  the 
purport  of  a  single  leaf!  To  one  it  may  merely  be  a  frail  record 
of  the  passing  pleasure  of  a  thoughtless  jest,  and  to  another  it 
may  bear  stern  memories  of  irrecoverable  happiness ! — may 
indeed  be  able  with  sighs  to  wring  our  lips  asunder ! 

But  as  Westby  Gibson,  the  peasant  bard  of  Sherwood,  In 
his  fine  poem  of  "Dead  Leaves,"  says, 

**  Be  this  as  it  may,  the  flow'r  and  the  leaf — 
The  types  of  all  that  is  sweet  and  lair — 
Are  symbols  alike  of  joy  and  grief;" 

and  as  such  we  must  accept  them. 

11—2 


1 64  Dead  Leaves. 


There  are  few  who  have  lived  and  loved  who  will  accept 
Coleridge's  dictum,  that  "in  nature  there  is  nothing  melan- 
choly." It  is  impossible  for  those  who  have  suffered — and 
who  has  not  ? — not  to  perceive  evidences  of  sorrow,  although 
ever  counterbalanced  by  the  sunny  side  in  all  portions  of  this 
mundane  sphere.  From  the  grief  of  man  to  the  decay  of  the 
tiniest  leaflet,  every  object  in  nature  wears  at  times  a  melan- 
choly hue.  It  is  impossible  for  the  gayest  of  us  not  to  feel 
occasionally  the  shadow, — for  us  not  to  mourn  for 

**The  rich  gleaming  wrea things, — oh,  where  are  they  now? 
The  bloom  is  departed,  the  beauty  is  shed  ; 
All  scentless  the  flower,  all  sapless  the  bough, — 

Oh  !  the  glad  night  is  past,  and  the  green  leaves  are  dead." 

Yet  we  should  not  nurse  our  melancholy ;  but  as  the  dead 
leaves  falling  from  their  branches  are  but  proofs  of  the  general 
and  continual  rejuvenescent  workings  of  nature,  so  should  we 
strive  to  regard  our  losses  and  troubles  only  as  proofs  of  the 
grand  truth  that  "  all  things  work  together  for  good."  With 
Jean  Ingelow  let  us  learn  that 

*"Tis  sometimes  natural  to  be  glad, 
And  no  man  can  be  always  sad 

Unless  he  wills  to  have  it  so."  ' 

A  bright-minded  young  poetess,  whose  premature  loss  it 
has  already  been  our  melancholy  duty  to  allude  to,  some  few 
years  ago  contributed  these  hopeful  and  appropriate  lines  to 
the  pages  of  a  contemporary : 

"The  withered  leaves,  trembling,  love,        "The  world  it  looks  dreary,  love, 

Fall  to  the  ground  ;  And  thick  falls  the  rain  ; 

And  strewn  over  all,  love,  My  heart  it  is  weary,  love. 

Lie  dying  around.  My  head  throbs  with  pain. 

Killed  by  the  frost,  love.  My  hopes  thickly  fall,  love, 

The  flowers  scattered  lie  ;  Like  the  leaves  from  a  tree  ; 

Their  brightness  is  lost.  And  I  cannot  recall 

And  neglected  they  die.  Their  beauty  to  me. 

*'  With  thy  heart  I  am  blest,  love, 
So  I  '11  brave  the  chill  rain  ; 
And  patiently  rest,  love. 

Till  the  sun  shines  again. 
And  I  hope  when  the  Spring,  love, 

Gives  leaves  to  the  tree. 
Some  flowers  it  will  bring,  love, 
For  you  and  for  me." 

Ella  Ingram. 


Heart*s-ease. 

(THINK    OF    ME  — THOUGHTS.) 

**  There  are  pansies :  that 's  for  thoughts." 

Shakspeare. 

THE  Hearfs-ease,  as  its  French  name  of  pansy  or  pensee 
intimates,  is  in  the  language  of  flowers  symboHcal  of 
remembrance.  It  is  a  beautiful  variety  of  the  violet,  far  sur- 
passing that  flower  in  diversity  and  brilliance  of  colour,  but 
possessing  little,  if  any,  of  the  exquisite  fragrance  for  which  that 
is  so  renowned.  Although  it  certainly  has  so  little  in  the  way 
of  perfume  to  recommend  it,  its  lovely  diversification  and  con- 
trasts of  colour,  combined  with  the  glossy  velvet  sheen  of  its 
petals,  renders  it  a  much-admired  floral  pet.  It  appertains  to 
a  very  extensive  family,  and  is  found  in  many  portions  of  the 
globe ;  it  grows  wild  in  Japan,  Languedoc,  Italy,  and  in  our 
own  country,  where  it  is  supposed  to  be  indigenous.  A  very 
pretty  pale  yellow  variety  may  often  be  discovered  nestling 
amid  the  corn. 

**  There  are  pansies :  that 's  for  thoughts." 

says  Shakspeare,  and  availing  himself  of  the  usual  licence  of 
poets,  the  great  bard  describes  the  pansy  as  originally  milk- 
white,  until  it  got  struck  by  a  shaft  which  that  little  unbreeched 
rogue  Cupid  had  aimed  at  Diana,  so  that  it  is  now  "purple 
with  love's  wound." 

Mrs.  Siddons  is  said  to  have  been  much  enamoured  of  this 
blossom,  and  to  have  used  it  for  edgings  to  all  the  borders  of 
her  flower-beds.  The  purchases  of  these  "  bright  mosaics  " 
were  so  frequent,  that  her  servant  who  obtained  them  for  her 
was  known  to  the  surrounding  nurserymen  by  the  soubriquet  ot 
"  Heart's-ease." 

An  amusing  story  is  related  in  connection  with  this  flower. 
In  1815,  a  cure  of  a  small  French  town  gave  his  pupils  as  a 


1 66  Heart's-ease. 


theme  for  their  next  exercise  the  viola  tricolor^  or  heart's-ease, 
and  supplied  them  with  the  following  passage  out  of  Rapin's 
Latin  poem,  "  The  Gardens,"  as  a  motto  : 

"  Flosque  Jovis  varius,  folii  tricolorisy  et  ipsi 
Par  violcz. " 

This  circumstance  coming  to  the  ears  of  the  mayor,  he,  with 
the  usual  sagacity  of  such  officials,  "  smelt  a  rat,"  and,  to  make 
all  sure,  had  the  innocent  cure  apprehended  and  brought  be- 
fore his  worship  for  examination.  Imagine  the  poor  teacher's 
astonishment  when  he  found  what  a  ludicrous  translation  of 
the  inoffensive  quotation  awaited  him.  The  mayor  had  thus 
ingeniously  construed  the  words :  Flos  Jovis  (Jove's  flower) 
was  evidently  intended  for  the  flower  of  the  exiled  Napoleon; 
folii  tricoloris  denoted  the  national  three-coloured  cockade ; 
whilst  ct  ipsi  par  violcB  most  decidedly  alluded  to  le  pere  de  la 
violette,  as  the  ex-emperor  was  affectionately  styled  by  his 
partisans,  who  generally  wore  those  blossoms  in  their  button- 
holes ! 

This  floral  pet,  having  received  much  attention  from  the 
feminine  world,  has  been  very  appropriately  designated  "  the 
ladies'  flower,"  a  name  which  is  not  the  most  fanciful  that  it 
has  acquired,  for,  to  quote  once  more  our  great  dramatist, 
maidens  call  it  "  love  in  idleness." 

"  Three-pretty-faces-under-one-hood  "  is  another  of  its  pretty 
titles. 

A  few  years  since  the  heart's-ease  was  a  humble  little  flower 
quite  unknown  to  floral  fame  :  in  the  year  1 8 1 2,  however.  Lady 
Mary  Bennett,  then  residing  at  Walton-on-Thames,  entertained 
a  penchant  for  the  flower,  and  had  a  small  garden  planted 
entirely  with  it.  Desirous  of  pleasing  her,  the  gardener  se- 
lected the  seed  of  the  choicest  varieties,  and  to  his  pleasur- 
able astonishment,  on  germinating,  the  seedlings  displayed  the 
most  marvellous  diversity  of  beauty  and  style.  Milton's  ''pansy 
freaked  with  jet,"  and  even  Shakspeare's  purple  ''love  in  idle- 
ness," were  far  outshone  by  these  pampered  children  of  Nature. 
Their  breeder  proudly  displayed  his  triumphs  to  fellow-florists, 
and  in  a  little  while  the  heart's-ease  ranked  amongst  the 
flowers  of  fashion.     Such  are  the  effects  of  education  ! 

That  quaint  old  impostor,  Culpepper,  says,  "  This  is  that 


Hear  t's-ease.  167 


herb  which  such  physicians  as  are  hcensed  to  blaspheme  by 
authority,  without  danger  of  having  their  tongues  burned 
through  with  a  hot  iron,  called  an  *  herb  of  the  Trinity.'  It  is 
also  called  by  those  that  are  more  moderate,"  he  adds,  "'Three- 
faces-in-a-hood  ;'  '  love-in-idleness  ; '  *  call-me-to-you  ;  *  and  in 
Sussex  we  call  them  ^  pancies.'  " 

Our  old  writers  had  many  different  methods  of  spelling  this 
flower's  name,  and  Ben  Jonson's  mode  comes  nearer  the 
French  sound  than  does  the  modern  style  of  orthography. 
He  says, 

**  Now  the  shining  meads 
Do  boast  the  paunse,  lily,  and  the  rose, 
And  every  flower  doth  laugh  as  zephyr  blows." 

Dryden,  translating  one  of  Virgil's  "  Pastorals,"  introduces 
the  pansy  amongst  sweet  plants  in  general,  but  apparently 
only  to  depict  its  want  of  fragrance. 

**  Pansies  to  please  the  sight,  and  cassia  sweet  to  smell," 

he  sings  ;  but,  though  the  smaller  varieties  are  scentless,  some 
of  the  larger  ones  have  a  pleasant  perfume — scarcely  so  power- 
ful, however,  even  to  the  most  sensitive  nostrils,  a^  Drayton 
would  have  us  believe : 

*'  The  pansy  and  the  violet  here,  *'  And  pointing  to  a  pink  to  tell 

As  seeming  to  descend  Which  bears  it,  it  is  loth 

Both  from  one  root,  a  very  pair,  To  judge  it;  but  replies,  for  smell, 

For  sweetness  do  contend.  That  it  excels  them  both, 

**  Wherewith  displeased  they  hang  their  heads, 
So  angry  soon  thy  grow. 
And  from  their  odoriferous  beds 
Their  sweets  at  it  they  throw. " 

Milton  introduces  this  little  favourite  into  the  wreaths 
brought  to  Sabrina  by  the  grateful  shepherds  : 

"The  shepherds  at  their  festivals 
Carol  her  goodness  loud  in  rustic  lays. 
And  throw  sweet  garland  wreaths  into  her  stream, 
Of  pansies,  pinks,  and  gaudy  daffodils." 

Heart's-ease  is  not  so  modern  an  appellation  for  this  flower 
as  is  generally  supposed.  Bunyan,  in  his  ''  Pilgrim's  Progress," 
represents  the  guide  as  saying  to  Christiana  and  her  children, 
of  a  boy  who  was  singing  beside  his  sheep,  "  Do  you  hear  him.^ 
I  will  dare  to  say  this  boy  leads  a  merrier  life,  and  wears  more 


1 6  8  He  A  R  T  'S-EA  SE. 


of  that  herb  called  heart's-ease  in  his  bosom,  than  he  that  is 
clothed  in  silk  or  purple." 

Probably  no  flower  has  c'^'er  been  endowed  with  so  many 
loving  names  as  has  this  one.  In  short,  as  Leigh  Hunt — one 
of  its  most  intense  admirers — observes,  "  The  Persians  them- 
selves have  not  a  greater  number  of  fond  appellations  for  the 
rose,  than  the  people  of  Europe  for  the  heart's-ease.  .  .  .  The 
modern  Latin  name  for  it  is  Flos  Jovis,  or  Jove's  flower — a 
cognomen  rather  too  worshipful  for  its  little  sparkling  delicacy, 
and  more  suitable  to  the  greatness  of  an  hydrangea,  or  to  the 
diadems  of  a  rhododendron. 

"  'Jove's  own  flower,  that  shares  the  violet's  pride, 
Its  want  of  scent  with  triple  charms  supplied.' 

"  The  name  given  to  it  by  the  Italians  \s  Jiammola,  the  'little 
flame,'  at  least,  this  is  an  appellation  with  which  I  have  met, 
and  it  is  quite  in  the  taste  of  that  ardent  people.  The  French 
call  it  a  pe7is4ey  *  a  thought.'  '  There  are  pansies,'  says  poor 
Ophelia  :  *  that 's  for  thoughts.'  Drayton,  in  his  world  of 
luxuries,  the  '  Muses'  Elysium,'  where  he  fairly  stifles  you  with 
sweets,  has  given,  under  this  name  of  it,  a  very  brilliant  image 
of  its  effect  in  a  wreath  of  flowers.    The  nymph  says, 

**  'Amongst  these  roses  in  a  row, 

Next  place  I  pinks  in  plenty, 
These  double  daisies  then  for  show ; 

And  will  not  this  be  dainty? 
The  pretty  pansy  then  I  '11  tye, 

Like  stones  some  chain  enchasing ; 
The  next  to  them,  their  near  ally, 

The  purple  violet  placing.' 

"  Another  of  its  names  is  '  love-in-idleness,'  under  which  it 
has  been  again  celebrated  by  Shakspeare,  to  whom  we  must 
always  return  for  anything  and  everything :  his  fairies  make 
potent  use  of  it  in  the  *  Midsummer  Night's  Dream.' 

"  Besides  these  names,  this  tricoloured  violet  is  also  called, 
in  various  country  places,  '  Jump-up-and-kiss-me-quick  ; '  'the 
herb  Trinity  ; '  '  three-faces-under-a-hood  ; '  '  kiss-me-behind- 
the-garden-gate  ; '  and  '  cuddle-me-to-you,'  which  seems  to 
have  been  altered  by  some  nice  apprehension  into  the  less 
vivacious  request  of  'call-me-to-you.'  " 

Leigh  Hunt  continually  finds  occasion  to  laud  his  favourite. 
Thus,  in  his  "Feast  of  Poets,"  he  entwines  it  with  the  vine 


He  A  R  T'S-EA  SE.  1 6  9 


and  the  bay,  in  order  to  form  a  suitable  wreath  for  Tom  Moore's 
acceptance  at  the  hands  of  Apollo.  In  his  notes  to  the  poem 
he  says,  "  For  my  part,  to  whom  gaiety  and  companionship  are 
more  than  ordinarily  welcome  on  many  accounts,  I  cannot  but 
speak  with  gratitude  of  this  little  flower — one  of  many  with 
which  fair  and  dear  friends  have  adorned  my  prison-house, 
and  the  one  which  outlasted  all  the  rest." 

This  same  enthusiastic  poet,  in  his  "  Descent  of  Liberty," 
after  depicting  several  floral  beauties,  finishes  the  picture  with 
the  pansy : 

**  And  as  proud  as  all  of  them 
Bound  in  one,  the  garden's  gem, 
Heart's-ease,  like  a  gallant  bold, 
In  his  doth  of  purple  and  gold." 

When,  in  his  "  History  of  the  Months,"  after  enumerating 
various  blossoms,  he  comes  to  his  invariable  pet,  he  is  unable 
to  pass  it  by  without  bestowing  some  endearing  name  upon 
it,  and  so  calls  it  the  "sparkler," — a  name  which  it  so  truly 
deserves,  that  it  might  well  be  added  to  those  it  now  bears,  in 
which  it  already  surpasses  a  Spanish  grandee. 

It  is  said  somewhere  that  the  heart's-ease  is  sacred  to  Saint 
Valentine.  It  must  be  confessed  to  be  a  choice  worthy  of  that 
amiable  and  very  popular  saint ;  for  the  flower,  like  love,  is 
painted  in  the  most  brilliant  colours,  is  full  of  sweet  names, 
and  grows  alike  in  the  humblest  as  well  as  the  richest  soils. 
Another  point  of  resemblance,  too^,  may  be  added  :  that  where 
it  has  once  taken  root,  it  so  pertinaciously  perpetuates  itself, 
that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  eradicate  it. 

The  celebrated  Quesnay,  founder  of  the  Economists,  was 
styled  his  thinker  by  Louis  XV.,  whose  physician  he  was.  The 
French  monarch,  in  order  to  manifest  the  great  regard  he  had 
for  this  nobleman,  devised,  for  him  a  coat  of  arms  bearing  three 
flowers  of  \\iQ  pensee. 

Miss  Pratt,  alluding  to  the  symbolism  of  this  flower,  remiarks 
that  whilst  its  familiar  name  of  heart's-ease  renders  it  a  pleas- 
ing emblem  to  us,  to  our  Gallic  brethren  its  name  of  "  thought " 
presents  a  sad  one.  "  May  they  be  far  from  thee,"  is  a  motto 
affixed  to  the  little  painted  group  of  pansies  mingled  with 
marygolds,  called  soucis,  cares,  which  is  sometimes  given  as  an 
offering  of  friendship  by  a  French  lady. 


Basil. 

(HATRED.) 

THIS  plant  derives  its  name  from  a  Greek  word  signifying 
royal.  It  is  generally  called  "  sweet  basil  ;  "  and  why  so 
odoriferous  a  herb  should  have  become  the  symbol  of  hatred 
it  is  difficult  to  imagine.  Some  say  because,  at  times,  the 
ancients  represented  Poverty  by  the  figure  of  a  female  covered 
with  rags,  and  seated  by  a  plant  of  basil. 

These  sweet-scented  herbs  are  chiefly  natives  of  the  East 
Indies,  where  their  seeds  are  deemed  efficacious  against  the 
poison  of  serpents.     In  Persia,  where  it  is  called  rayhaii, 

**  The  basil  tuft  that  waves 
Its  f ragi-ant  blossom  over  graves, " 

is  generally  found  in  churchyards. 

We  read,  in  Maillet's  "  Letters,"  that  the  Egyptian  women 
go,  at  least  two  days  in  the  week,  to  pray  and  weep  at  the 
sepulchres  of  the  dead  ;  and  the  custom  there  is  to  throw  upon 
the  tombs  a  sort  of  herb,  which  the  Arabs  call  rihan,  and  which 
is  our  sweet  basil.  By  the  Hindoos  the  basil  is  highly  venera- 
ted ;  they  call  it  "  holy  shrub,"  and  have  named  after  it  a 
sacred  grove  of  their  Parnassus,  on  the  banks  of  the  Yamuna. 

In  a  beautiful  poem  by  Shelley,  this  plant  is  alluded  to  as  a 
token  flower : 

"Madonna,  vi^herefore  hast  thou  sent  to  me 

Sweet  basil  and  mignonette  ? 
Embleming  love  and  health,  which  never  yet 
In  tlie  same  wreath  might  be. 
Alas,  and  they  are  wet ! 
Is  it  with  thy  kisses  or  thy  tears  ? 
For  never  rain  or  dew 
Such  fragrance  drew 
From  plant  or  flower. " 


Basil.  171 

It  has  been  suggested  as  the  reason  for  Boccaccio's  selecting 
the  basil  to  shade  the  terrible  relic  which  Isabella  so  lovingly 
preserved,  that  it  might  have  formerly  been  the  custom  in 
Italy  to  use  it  in  decorating  tombs  and  graves  ;  but  it  is  more 
probable  that  the  author  of  the  "  Decameron,"  obtained  the 
allusion  to  the  herb  where  he  got  so  many  of  his  stories  from 
— the  East. 

Keats  and  Barry  Cornwall  have  both  contributed,  by  their 
exquisite  poetical  rendering  of  the  story,  to  make  it  familiar 
to  English  readers. 

The  latter,  unlike  Boccaccio,  does  not  make  the  unhappy 
heroine  preserve  her  lover's  head,  but  his  heart,  which  she  has 
enwrapped  and  embalmed.  Keats  more  closely  follows  his 
Italian  authority,  and  makes  Isabella  bury  the  head  under  the 
fragrant  herb — telling  how  she 


(( 


Hung  over  her  sweet  basil  evermore, 


And  moisten'd  it  with  tears  unto  the  core. 

"And  so  she  ever  fed  it  with  thin  tears, 

Whence  thick,  and  green,  and  beautiful  it  grew, 

So  that  it  smelt  more  balmy  than  its  peers 
Of  basil  tufts  in  Florence ;  for  it  drew 

Nurture  besides,  and  life,  from  human  fears, 

From  the  fast-mouldering  head  there  shut  from  view ; 

So  that  the  jewel  safely  casketed 

Came  forth,  and  in  perfumed  leaflets  spread." 

Some  people  have  tried  to  connect  the  name  of  this  plant 
with  the  fabulous  basilisk,  which  was  supposed  to  kill  with  a 
single  glance — whence  arose  the  common  saying,  that  ^'  Hate 
has  the  eye  of  a  basilisk." 

Culpepper,  in  his  quaint  old  "  Herbal,"  declares  that  basil  is 
a  cure  for  venomous  bites  and  stings,  besides  effecting  several 
other  wonderful  things.  "  Hilarious,"  he  states,  "  a  French 
physician,  affirms  upon  hi§  own  knowledge,  that  an  acquain- 
tance of  his,  by  common  smelling  to  it,  had  a  scorpion  bred  in 
his  brain !" 

This  veracious  botanical,  medical,  and  astrological  authority 
furthermore  states  that  "  something  is  the  matter ;  this  herb 
and  rue  will  never  grow  together — no,  nor  near  one  another ; 
and  we  know  rue  is  as  great  an  enemy  to  poison  as  any  that 
grows." 


Af/' 


"^±^^ 


FORGET-ME-NOT. 

'Hope's  gentle  gem,  the  sweet  forget-me-not." 


Coleridge. 


"The  sweet  forget-me-nots  that  grow  for  happy  lovers." 

Tennyson. 

A  BEAUTIFUL  little  flower,  whose  name  enfolds  no 
hieroglyphic  secret,  but  whose  beloved  face  of  heavenly 
blue  is  suggestive  of  its  sorrowful  meaning,  is  the  Forget-me- 
not.  The  German  legend  that  accounts  for  the  poetical  appel- 
lation by  which  this  tiny  floral  pet  is  known,  runs  thus:  "A 
knight  and  his  betrothed  were  walking  on  the  banks  of  the 
Danube,  when  the  lady  espied  a  bunch  of  iho.  Myosotris  palus- 
tris  (as  this  blossom  is  termed  by  Linnaeus)  floating  away 
down  the  stream  ;  and,  expressing  a  wish  to  possess  it,  with 
chivalrous  promptitude  the  mail-clad  gallant  plunged  into  the 
river  and  grasped  the  flower ;  but,  alas !  encumbered  by  the 
weight  of  his  armour,  he  was  unable  to  remount  the  slippery 
bank.  Finding  himself,  despite  all  his  exertions,  sinking  fast 
beneath  the  waters,  with  a  last  efl'ort  he  flung  the  blossoms 
ashore  to  his  agonized  mistress,  crying,  ere  he  sank  for  ever, 
*  Forget  me  not  ! '  " 

With  such  a  romantic  tragedy  attached  to  it,  it  is  not  to  be 
wondered  at  that  this  little  flower  should  have  been  inundated 
with  poetical  tributes.  Gothe,  in  one  of  his  melodious  lyrics 
— the  spirit  of  which  Lord  Francis  Gower  has  well  caught  and 
translated  into  English — addresses  the  forget-me-not  as 

**  Still  the  loveliest  flower, 
The  fairest  of  the  fair 
Of  all  that  deck  my  lady's  bower, 
Or  bind  her  floating  hair." 

This  flower  recalls  to  mind  another  event  connected  with  the 
days  of  chivalry,  otherwise  than  the  melancholy  one  from  which  it 


Forget-me-not.  173 


takes  its  suggestive  title.  When  Lord  Scales,  brother  to  Eliza- 
beth Woodville,  wife  of  Edward  IV.,  tilted  against  a  French 
knight  of  Burgundy,  the  ladies  of  the  Court  playfully  presented 
him  with  a  collar  of  gold,  brilliantly  enamelled  with  these  little 
blossoms,  as  a  fitting  reward  for  an  English  knight's  emprise 
of  arms  either  on  horseback  or  on  foot.  This  historical  in- 
cident proves  the  admiration  in  which  this  simple  wild  flower 
was  held  even  in  olden  times. 

The  forget-me-not  flourishes  in  great  luxuriance  on  the 
banks  of  a  beautiful  rivulet  in  the  vicinity  of  Luxembourg  ; 
and  one  particular  portion  of  this  stream,  facing  the  sunny 
south,  is  known  by  the  title  of  "  The  Fairies'  Bath."  Hither 
in  the  summer  come  the  young  city  maidens  to  hold  their 
merry  meetings  and  dances  upon  the  bloomy  sward ;  and, 
should  any  modern  Actseon  presume  to  peep  through  the 
leafy  branches,  he  may  behold  them  innocently  diverting 
themselves  by  wreathing  garlands  of,  and  crowning  each  other 
with,  the  blue-petalled  forget-me-nots  that  line  the  brooklet's 
banks. 

In  many  parts  of  France  this  little  flower  is  carefully  culti- 
vated for  transplantation  to  the  city  markets,  where  its  ap- 
pealing looks  readily  procure  purchasers  for  it. 

The  following  verses,  entitled  *'  Forget  me  not,"  appeared 
some  few  years  ago  : 

"  Dear  girl,  I  send  this  spray  of  flowers — 

All  withered  now,  once  brightest  blue — 
To  call  to  mind  those  happy  hours, 

Those  happy  hours  I  pass'd  with  you. 
Forget  me  not  !  though  others  win 

The  glorious  right  to  call  thee  '  theirs ;  * 
Forget  me  not !  that  might  have  been 

The  answer  to  my  fervid  prayers. 

**  For  I  have  had  thy  hand  in  mine, 

And  once  our  ways  in  life  seem'd  blended ; 
And  once  I  thought  our  loves  might  twine, 

But  now,  alas  !  that  dream  is  ended. 
Forget  me  not  !  for  I  am  lonely. 

And  stranded  on  Life's  desert  shore  ; 
Forget  me  not ! — I  ask  that  only — 

For  now  our  paths  may  meet  no  more. 

**  Could  I  but  think  you  don't  forget, 

Though  all  my  hopes  of  life  should  perish, 
I  'd  pass  them  by  without  regret, 

So  that  that  tliought  I  still  might  cherish. 


174  Forget-me-not. 


Forget  me  not !  't  is  all  I  ask, 

And  though  thy  hand  may  be  another's, 
I  '11  wear  upon  my  face  a  mask 

Of  smiles  to  hide  the  grief  it  covers. 

**  Let,  then,  these  wither'd  flowers  recall 

Each  broken  link  of  Mem'ry's  chain  ; 
And  from  the  Past's  dim  haunted  hall 

Those  happy  hours  bring  back  again. 
Forget  me  not !  mine  only  love — 

Ah !  would  indeed  that  you  were  mine! 
Forget  me  not !  my  long-lost  dove, 

In  dreams  my  heart  will  beat  next  thine  ! " 

John  Ingram. 

"  It  is  said/'  remarks  Miss  Pratt,  in  her  "  Flowers  and  their 
Associations,"  "  that  after  the  battle  of  Waterloo  an  immense 
quantity  of  forget-me-nots  sprang  up  upon  different  parts  of 
the  soil,  enriched  by  the  blood  of  heroes.  .  .  A  poet  might 
say,"  adds  the  lady,  "  that  the  appearance  of  such  a  flower  in 
this  memorable  spot  seemed  to  ask  that  we  should  not  soon 
forget  those  who  perished  on  the  field." 

This  little  floral  pet,  which  Coleridge  aptly  calls 

"That  blue  and  bright-eyed  flow'ret  of  the  brook, 
Hope's  gentle  gem,  the  sweet  forget-me-not, " 

is  greatly  beloved  by  the  Germans,  who  are  very  fond  of 
growing  it  upon  the  graves  of  their  deceased  darlings.  When 
it  is  taken  from  its  native  brook,  however,  and  planted  in  a 
dry  situation,  its  looks  alter  considerably,  but  withal  it  con- 
tinues a  pretty  blossom. 

Tennyson,  in  his  poem  of  the  "  Miller's  Daughter,"  when  he 
would  "  make  a  garland  for  the  heart,"  asks  Alice 

**  To  sing  that  other  song  I  made, 
Half-anger'd  with  my  happy  lot, 


The  day  when  in  the  chestnut  shade 
I  found  the  blue  forget-me-not. " 


And  Alice  sings. 


"Love  that  hath  us  in  the  net,  " Love  is  hurt  with  jar  and  fret. 

Can  he  pass,  and  we  forget  ?  Love  is  made  a  vague  regret. 

Many  suns  arise  and  set.  Eyes  with  idle  tears  are  wet. 

Many  a  chance  the  years  beget,  Idle  habit  links  us  yet. 

Love  the  gift  is  love  the  debt.  "What  is  love  ?  for  we  forget ! 

Even  so.  Ah  !  no,  no  ! " 

Agnes  Strickland  relates  that  Henry  of  Lancaster  during 


For  ge  t-me-no  t.  175 


his  exile  adopted  this  blossom  as  his  emblem,  with  the  motto 
Souveigne  voits  de  moi. 

The  following  lines  appeared  in  the  "  New  Monthly  Maga- 
zine "  some  years  ago,  and  were  addressed  to  a  young  lady, 
who,  on  the  author  handing  her  into  a  carriage,  held  out  at 
the  window  a  bouquet  which  he  had  presented  to  her,  and 
which  was  chiefly  composed  of  forget-me-nots ; 

**I  culled  each  flow'ret  for  my  fair, 

The  wild  thyme  and  the  heather  bell ; 
And  round  them  twined  a  tendril  rare — 

She  said  the  posy  pleased  her  well. 
But  of  the  flowers  that  deck  the  field, 

Or  grace  the  garden  of  the  cot, 
Though  others  richer  perfumes  yield. 

The  sweetest  is  forget-me-not. 

**We  roamed  the  mead,  we  climbed  the  hill, 

We  rambled  o'er  the  breckan  brae  ; 
The  trees  that  crowned  the  mossy  rill,- 

They  screened  us  from  the  glare  of  day. 
She  said  she  loved  the  sylvan  bower, 

Was  charmed  with  ev'ry  rural  spot ; 
And  when  arrived  the  parting  hour, 

Her  last  words  were  'forget  me  not !  *" 

The  subject  more  than  the  treatment  of  this  simple  lay  has 
secured  it  a  place  in  this  floral  casket ;  but  a  brighter  and 
more  precious  gem  shall  now  be  set  herein.  This  pathetic 
and  original  poem,  entitled  "  Can  you  forget  me  V  was  contri- 
buted to  a  contemporary  annual  by  L.  E.  L.  Although  it 
does  not  especially  mention  the  emblem  of  which  this  chapter 
treats,  its  appropriateness  will  assuredly  be  unquestioned. 

**Can  you  forget  me  ?    I,  who  have  cherish'd 
The  veriest  trifle  that  was  memory's  link  ; 
The  roses  that  you  gave  me,  although  perish'd, 

Were  precious  in  my  sight ;  they  made  me  think 
You  took  them  in  their  scentless  beauty  stooping, 

From  the  warm  shelter  of  the  garden  wall : 
Autumn,  while  into  languid  Winter  drooping, 
Gave  its  last  blossoms,  opening  but  to  fall. 

Can  you  forget  them  ? 

**  Can  you  forget  me  ?    I  am  not  relying 

On  plighted  vows — alas  !  I  know  their  worth. 
Man's  faith  to  woman  is  a  trifle,  dying 
Upon  tlie  very  breath  that  gave  it  birth. 


176  For  ge  t-me-no  t. 


But  I  remember  hours  of  quiet  gladness, 

When  if  the  heart  had  truth,  it  spoke  it  then, 
When  thoughts  would  sometimes  take  a  tone  of  sadness, 
And  then  unconsciously  grow  glad  again. 

Can  you  forget  them  ? 
****** 

"There  is  no  truth  in  love,  whate'er  its  seeming. 

And  heaven  itself  could  scarcely  seem  more  true  j 
Sadly  have  I  awakened  from  the  dreaming, 

Whose  charmed  slumber,  false  one,  was  of  you. 
I  gave  mine  inmost  being  to  thy  keeping, 

I  had  no  thought  I  did  not  seek  to  share  ; 
Feelings  that  hushed  within  my  soul  were  sleeping, 
Waked  into  voice  to  trust  them  to  thy  care. 

Can  you  forget  them? 

*'  Can  you  forget  me?    This  is  vaiijly  tasking 
The  faithless  heart  where  I,  alas  !  am  not. 
Too  well  I  know  the  idleness  of  asking — 

The  misery — of  why  I  am  forgot  ! 
The  happy  hours  that  I  have  pass'd  while  kneeling, 

Half-slave,  half-child,  to  gaze  upon  thy  face — 
But  what  to  thee  this  passionate  appealing  ? 
Let  my  heart  break — it  is  a  common  case. 

You  have  forgotten  me  !'" 


Apple-blossom. 

(PREFERENCE.) 

AN  experienced  florigraphist  has  styled  the  Apple-blossom 
the  emblem  of  preference,  because,  not  only  is  it  a  very 
lovely  flower,  but,  as  the  predecessor  of  fine  and  useful  fruit, 
it  may  be  preferred  to  the  rose  itself.  The  apple  singly  is 
deemed  typical  of  temptation,  undoubtedly  from  the  curious 
legend  which  connects  it  with  the  first  transgression  and  fall 
of  man,  a  legend  which  figures  alike  in  most  of  the  ancient 
mythologies  of  which  any  vestiges  are  extant.  Many  believe 
the  golden  fruit  of  the  Hesperides — 

**  The  fruits  of  blooming  gold, 
Beyond  the  sounding  ocean  :  the  fair  trees 
Of  golden  fruitage," 

the  obtaining  of  which  was  one  of  the  twelve  labours  appointed 
for  Hercules — to  have  been  nothing  more  than  apples ;  but 
modern  opinion  inclines  to  the  idea  that  oranges  were  the 
dragon-guarded  dainties.  The  Thebans  worshipped  Hercules 
under  the  name  of  Melius,  and  off"ered  apples  at  his  altars. 
This  custom  was  said  to  have  originated  in  the  following 
manner :  The  river  Asopus  having  on  one  occasion  overflowed 
its  banks  to  such  an  extent  as  to  render  it  impossible  to  bring 
across  it  a  sheep  which  was  to  be  sacrificed  to  Hercules,  some 
youths,  recollecting  that  an  apple  bore  the  same  name  as  a  sheep 
— m'elon — offered  an  apple,  with  four  little  sticks  stuck  in  it  to 
resemble  legs,  as  a  substitute  for  a  sheep  ;  and  after  that  period 
the  pagans  always  considered  the  apple  as  especially  devoted 
to  Hercules.  This  tree  was  highly  reverenced  by  the  Druids, 
not  only  on  account  of  its  fruit,  but,  and  chiefly,  for  the  reason 
that  they  believed  it  and  the  oak  were  the  only  trees  on  which 
the  mistletoe  grew.  In  consequence  of  its  reputed  sanctity, 
therefore,  the  apple  was  largely  cultivated  by  the  earliest  in- 

12 


178  Apple-blossom. 


habitants  of  this  island  of  whom  any  records  exist ;  and  Glas- 
tonbury, that  town  so  frequently  alluded  to  in  floral  history, 
was  known  as  the  ''  apple-orchard,"  from  the  quantity  of  that 
fruit  grown  there  previous  to  the  Roman  invasion. 

Many  ancient  rites  and  ceremonies  connected  with  this  holy 
tree  are  still  practised  in  different  portions  of  the  country.  In 
certain  parts  of  Devonshire,  on  Twelfth-night  or  Old  Christ- 
mas-eve, the  farmer,  accompanied  by  his  men,  takes  a  large 
pitcher  of  cider  into  the  orchard,  and  there,  after  reverently 
saluting  some  of  the  largest  trees,  they  proceed  to  the  one 
reputed  to  be  the  best  bearer  of  fruit,  and,  encircling  it,  they 
raise  their  voices  like  the  bards  of  yore,  and  as  they  dance 
round  it,  chant  this  toast  three  times : 

"  Here's  to  thee,  old  apple-tree  ! 
Hence  thou  may'st  bud,  and  whence  thou  may'st  blow  I 
And  whence  thou  may'st  bear  apples  enow  ! 

Hats  full !  caps  full ! 

Bushel,  bushel,  sacks  full, 

And  my  pockets  full  too  !     Hurra  ! " 

Many  country  folks  believe  that  if  they  neglected  this  custom 
— evidently  a  relic  of  paganism — the  trees  would  bear  no  fruit 
during  the  ensuing  year. 

In  the  Scandinavian  mythology  this  tree  played  an  impor- 
tant part.  In  the  "  Edda,"  the  goddess  Iduna  is  related  to  have 
had  charge  of  the  apples  which  had  the  power  of  conferring  im- 
mortality, and  which,  in  consequence  of  their  miraculous  pro- 
perty, were  especially  retained  for  the  gods  to  eat  when  they 
felt  themselves  growing  old.  The  evil  spirit,  Loke,  carried  off 
Iduna  and  the  wonderful  apple-tree,  and  hid  them  away  in  a 
forest  where  the  deities  were  unable  to  find  them.  The  results 
of  this  spiteful  theft  were  that  everything  went  wrong,  both  in 
the  realms  mundane  and  divine.  The  gods  grew  old  and  infirm, 
and,  becoming  enfeebled  in  mind  and  body,  were  no  longer 
able  to  regulate  the  affairs  of  the  earth  ;  and  mortals,  no  longer 
having  any  one  to  look  after  them,  fell  into  evil  ways,  and  be- 
came a  prey  to  the  evil  spirit.  Affairs  grew  worse  daily,  until 
the  gods,  combining  the  remains  of  their  strength,  overcame 
Loke,  and  compelled  him  to  restore  the  stolen  apple-tree. 

Many  curious  custorns  connected  with  this  fruit  are  fast 
dying  out,  and  ere  long  will  be  talked  of  as  relics  of  the  past. 


Apple-blossom.  179 


Roasted  apples  formed  an  important  item  in  the  delicious 
compound  which,  under  the  title  of  wassail-bowl,  was  such  a 
famed  beverage  with  our  ancestors.  The  ludicrous  practice  of 
"  bobbing  "  for  apples  on  Allhallow-e'en,  on  All  Saints  Day, 
and  at  other  specified  times,  is  nearly  obsolete.  Formerly,  the 
first  day  of  November  was  dedicated  to  the  titular  saint  of 
fruit  and  seeds,  and  was  called  La  Mas  Ubhal,  or  the  "  day  of 
the  apple."  This  name  being  pronounced  lainasool,  got  cor- 
rupted, says  Vallance,  into  I.amb's  Wool,  the  name  given  in 
some  parts  to  a  bowl  of  spiced  ale  containing  roasted  apples, 
and  which  is  drunk  on  the  last  night  in  October.  An  ancient 
charm,  practised  by  village  maidens,  was,  on  a  certain  par- 
ticularized night,  to  take  a  candle  and  go  alone  into  a  room, 
look  into  a  looking-glass,  and  eat  an  apple  in  front  of  it,  when 
she  would  behold  in  the  glass  the  reflection  of  her  husband  to 
be,  peeping  over  her  shoulder. 

It  was  once  usual  for  apples  to  be  blessed  by  priests  on  the 
25th  of  July ;  and  in  the  manual  of  the  church  of  Sarum  is 
preserved  an  especial  form  for  this  purpose. 

The  Romans  highly  valued  this  tree  for  its  ornamental 
effect,  deeming,  and  with  justice,  that  the  earliness  and  beauty 
of  its  blossoms,  as  also  the  brilliant  hues  of  its  fruit,  rendered 
it  a  desirable  addition  to  the  splendour  of  their  gardens.  The 
author  of  the  "Poetry  of  Gardening"  pleads  hard  for  their 
re-admission  into  the  flower-garden,  remarking  truthfully  that 
those  who  have  seen  the  hanging  orchards  of  Lanark, — 

"Clydesdale's  apple-bowers," 

in  the  end  of  the  merry  month  of  May,  or  the  tamer  beauties 
of  the  cider  counties  of  England,  may  well  regret  the  edict  of 
modern  taste,  that  banishes  such  beautiful  nosegays  from  the 
spring,  because  oi  their  almost  equal  beauties  in  autumn.  Surely 
we  might,  with  the  best  effect,  recall  from  the  slovenly  orchard, 
and  the  four  unpoetical  walls  of  the  kitchen-garden  some  of 
those  fruit-trees  which  graced  the  gardens  of  antiquity. 

L.  E.  L.  did  not  overlook  the  beauty  of  the  apple-blossom, 
as  these  lines  testify:  / 

*'  Of  all  the  months  that  fill  the  year, 
Give  April's  month  to  me, 
For  earth  and  sky  are  then  so  filled 
With  sweet  variety! 

VI — 2 


i8o 


Apple-blossom. 


•'  The  apple-blossoms'  shower  of  pearl, 
Though  blent  with  rosier  hue — 
As  beautiful  as  woman's  blush, 
As  evanescent  too. 

**  On  every  bough  there  is  a  bud, 
In  every  bud  a  flower  ; 
But  scarcely  bud  or  flower  will  last 
Beyond  the  present  hour. 

**  Now  comes  a  shower  cloud  o'er  the  sky, 
Then  all  again  sunshine ; 
Then  clouds  again,  but  brightened  with 
The  rainbow's  coloured  line. 

*'  Ay,  this,  this  is  the  month  for  me ! 
I  could  not  love  a  scene 
Where  the  blue  sky  was  always  blue, 
The  green  earth  always  green.'* 


Acanthus. 

(THE    ARTS.) 
**  A  woven  acanthus  wreath  divine." 


Tennyson. 


THE  Acantlms  is  a  native  of  hot  countries,  and,  being  un- 
able to  endure  the  variableness  of  this  climate,  is  only- 
permitted  entrance  into  this  floral  bouquet  on  account  of  its 
classic  and  artistic  associations. 

This  elegant  representative  of  the  arts  was  a  great  favourite 
with  the  Greeks,  who  frequently  made  use  of  its  graceful  form 
for  architectural  and  other  ornamental  purposes  :  as  is  well 
known,  it  makes  the  principal  decoration  of  the  Corinthian 
column  ;  the  idea  of  which  is  reported  by  tradition — that  un- 
wearied tattler — to  have  been  suggested  to  Callimachus,  a 
famous  architect,  by  the  accidental  sight  of  a  basket  overgrown 
by  acanthus  with  a  tile  on  it. 

The  story  tells  us  that  a  basket  containing  some  treasured 
relics,  and  covered  with  a  tile,  had  been  placed  by  mourning 
friends  upon  a  young  girl's  grave,  as  a  kind  of  memento  inori; 
an  acanthus  plant  grew  up  beneath  the  basket,  and  its  leaves 
spread  all  round,  but,  impeded  by  the  tile,  curled  gracefully 
back.  The  architect,  passing  by  the  tomb,  was  attracted  by 
the  elegance  of  the  untrained  decoration,  and,  having  some 
columns  to  design  for  an  edifice  in  Corinth,  imitated  the  form 
of  the  basket  for  the  pillars,  and  formed  the  capitals  in  the 
manner  of  the  curved  acanthus.  Thus,  indeed,  Vitruvius  re- 
cords the  legend. 

The  discerning  Greeks  continually  availed  themselves  of  the 
"woven  acanthus  wreath,"  to  adorn  their  buildings,  their  fur- 
niture, their  ornaments,  and  even  their  clothes ;  and  in  this 
they  were  subsequently  imitated  by  their  Roman  conquerors. 
Theocritus,  speaking  of  a  pastoral  prize  cup,  says, 


i8j:  Acanthus. 


^ 


"  All  about  the  cup  a  crust  was  raised 
Of  soft  acanthus." 

Virgil  very  frequently  alludes  to  this  plant,  and  mentions  it 
as  forming  the  pattern  embroidered  on  a  mantle  belonging  to 
that  immortal  beauty,  Helen  of  Troy ;  elsewhere,  the  same 
author  styles  it  "the  smiling  acanthus,"  and  says  it  is  one  of 
those  plants  which  the  earth  produces  without  culture.  He 
likewise  tells  us  that  the  handles  of  Alcimedon's  cup  were 
enwreathed  with  acanthus,  and  finally  places  it  amongst  the 
herbs  and  flowers  that  grew  in  the  garden  of  an  acquaintance 
of  his,  ''An  old  Corycian  swain  .  .  .  lord  of  few  acres,  and 
those  barren  too,"  but  which,  by  dint  of  hard  labour,  the 
worthy  ancient  turned  into  a  perfect  terrestrial  Paradise.  Right 
well  has  this  plant  been  chosen  as  an  emblem  of  the  arts,  for, 
like  Genius  their  creator,  the  more  obstacles  that  are  placed 
in  its  way,  the  more  vigorously  does  it  grow,  and  the  more 
gracefully  do  its  leaves  curve,  as  if  exalted  and  invigorated  by 
the  opposition  which  it  encounters. 


Evening  Primrose. 

(SILENT    LOVE.) 

"Love  us  as  emblems,  night's  dewy  flowers." 

Mrs,  Hemans. 

THE  Evening  Primrose,  emblematic  of  silent  love,  does  not 
unclose  her  cup  of  paly  gold  until  her  lowly  sisters  are 
rocked  into  a  balmy  slumber,  and  until 

"  The  moon 

Lifts  up  Night's  curtains,  and  with  visage  mild 
Smiles  on  the  beauteous  Earth,  her  sleeping  child," 

This  pallid  yellow  blossom  and  her  favourite  midnight  haunts 
are  thus  interestingly  described  in  a  botanical  paper  of  an  old 
number  of  the  "  Family  Friend,"  and  the  description  is  too 
pretty  to  be  deemed  inappropriate  to  our  purpose  :  "  She  loves 
to  look  the  pale  moon  in  the  face,  and  often  in  the  witching 
hour  of  deep  midnight,  when  stars  keep  their  watch  on  high, 
you  may  see  the  hospitable  plant  surrounded  by  such  insects 
as  avoid  the  light  of  day — warmly-coated  moths,  and  beetles 
of  various  kinds,  which  resort  to  her  for  their  nightly  banquet. 
Associated  with  much  poetry  and  many  legends,  this  favourite 
flower  grows  luxuriantly,  and  attains  to  the  height  of  several 
feet  in  a  wild  part  of  the  Vale  of  Clwyd,  on  the  roadside 
between  Denbigh  and  Ruthin,  as  also  in  many  sites  of  his- 
toric interest  in  various  parts  of  Britain  .  .  .  but  nowhere  so 
abundantly  as  in  the  Vale  of  Clwyd,  with  its  rushing  stream, 
and  trees  swaying  in  the  wind,  discovering,  as  the  branches 
wave  and  bend,  the  tower  of  old  Ruthven  in  the  clear  cold 
moonbeams.  Those  towers  look  well  when  seen  from  the  lone 
spot  where  grows  the  evening  primrose :  time  has  laid  them 


184  Evening  Primrose. 


waste,  and  the  halls  are  roofless.  .  .  .  Here,  then,  in  one  of  the 
wildest  parts  of  Denbighshire,  the  evening  primrose  unfolds 
her  large  and  fragrant  flowers.  Often,  too,  when  the  nights 
are  dark,  and  not  the  slightest  breath  of  air  is  stirring,  her 
petals  emit  a  mild  phosphoric  light,  and  look  as  illuminated 
for  a  holiday.  Every  part  is  consequently  rendered  visible  ; 
and  he  who  does  not  fear  to  be  out  in  her  wild  and  lonely 
growing-place,  may  see  a  variety  of  nocturnal  ephemera  and 
insects  hovering  around  the  lighted  petals  or  sipping  at  the 
vegetable  fountains,  while  others  rest  among  the  branches,  or 
hurry  up  the  stems  as  if  fearing  to  be  too  late.  The  phos- 
phorescent light  thus  kindled  answers,  without  doubt,  the  pur- 
pose of  a  lamp,  to  guide  the  steps  or  flight  of  innumerable 
living  creatures  that  love  the  night;  and  this  is  the  more 
essential,  because  flowers  of  all  kinds  are  generally  closed." 

The  evening  primrose  is  dedicated  by  Roman  Catholics  to 
St.  Elizabeth,  Queen  of  Portugal.  It  has  not  elicited  so  many 
poetical  addresses  as  its  sister  of  the  day,  yet  has  not  been 
quite  overlooked.     Keats  mused  thus  on 

"  A  tuft  of  evening  primroses, 

O'er  "which  the  mind  may  hover  till  it  dozes; 
O'er  which  it  well  might  take  a  pleasant  sleep, 
But  that  't  is  ever  startled  by  the  leap 
Of  buds  into  ripe  flowers.'" 

In  these  lines  the  observant  poet  has  alluded  to  a  singular 
floral  phenomenon  appertaining  to  this  plant.  The  petals  of 
its  flower  open  in  a  remarkable  way.  The  upper  extremities 
of  the  calyx  are  furnished  with  little  hooks,  by  means  of  which 
the  blossom  is  held  together  before  expansion.  The  divisions 
of  the  calyx,  or  cup,  open  gradually  at  the  lower  part,  and 
show  the  yellow  flower,  which  continues  for  some  time  closed 
at  the  upper  part,  by  the  hooks.  The  blossom  suddenly  ex- 
pands about  half-way,  and  then  stops  ;  then  gradually  dilates, 
until  finally  it  completes  its  expansion  with  a  violent  explosion. 
Half  an  hour  is  sometimes  required  to  complete  this  singular 
operation,  which  maybe  witnessed  any  summer  evening,  about 
six  o'clock  being  the  general  time  of  the  flower's  opening  ;  and 
soil  and  weather  permitting,  its  periodic  movements  vary  very 
slightly.  It  has  a  faint  agreeable  odour,  which  is  alluded  to 
in  these  lines: 


Evening  Primrose. 


185 


**  Let  every  pale  night-scented  flower, 
Sad  emblem  of  passion  forlorn, 
Resign  its  appropriate  hour 

To  enhance  the  rich  breath  of  the  mom. 

**  All  that  art  or  that  nature  can  find, 
Not  half  so  delightful  would  prove. 
Nor  their  sweets  altogether  combined 
Half  so  sweet  as  the  breath  of  my  love. " 

The  large-flowered  evening  primrose,  typical  of  inconstancy, 
is  a  native  of  Virginia.  Notwithstanding  its  unstable  character, 
it  is  a  great  favourite  with  florists. 


Thyme. 

(ACTIVITY.) 
**The  bees  on  the  bells  of  thyme.** 


Shelley. 


(< 


PUN-PROVOKING  Thyme;'  as  Shenstone  wittily  calls 
this  herb  of  classic  fame,  has  been  made  the  symbol  of 
activity,  because  its  fragrant  flowers  are  ever  busy  with  "  the 
murmuring  hum  of  innumerable  bees."  In  his  poem  of  "The 
Bees,"  Rucellai  even  goes  so  far  as  to  say  that  "  Nature  made 
it  on  purpose  for  them  to  make  honey  of." 

In  the  days  of  chivalry,  when  activity  was  deemed  almost 
as  desirable  a  quality  as  courage,  ladies  were  accustomed  to 
embroider  their  knightly  lovers'  scarves  with  the  figure  of  a 
bee  hovering  about  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  gentle  hint  that  those 
who  would  enjoy  the  sweets  of  love  should  not  neglect  the 
constant  attentions  which  it  demands. 

The  fragrance  of  thyme  is  proverbial,  and  a  stroll  in  the 
morning  over 

"Airy  downs  and  gentle  hills, 
O'er  grass  with  thyme  bespread,** 

causes  the  delicious  odours  to  rise  round  one  in  clouds  of  per- 
fume, and  makes  one  no  longer  wonder  that  the  Fairy  King's 
musical  hounds  should  forsake  the  richest  garden  blooms,  in 
order  to  hunt  for  the  golden  dew  in  the  flowery  tufts  of  thyme. 
Well  may  Armstrong  direct  those  in  search  of  health  to  spots 
where 

"Thyme,  the  loved  of  bees,  perfumes  the  air." 


How  invigorating  to  ramble  across  fields   begemmed  and 
odoriferous  with  the  crisp  elastic  tufts  of  this  bonnie  plant !  or^ 


i 


Thyme.  187 

in  the  sunny  summer-time,  to  recline  upon  some  such  scented 
"  bank  whereon  the  wild  thyme  blows"  as  Shakspeare  wist  of! 
When  the  Greeks  wished  especially  to  compliment  an  author 
upon  the  Attic  elegance  of  his  style,  they  said  it  "smelt  of 
thyme,"  because  the  aromatic  flavour  of  their  honey,  of  which 
they  were  so  fond,  was  said  to  be  produced  by  the  bees  that 
had  fed  upon  that  herb,  with  which  Mount  Hymettus  was 
covered. 

Wild  thyme  still  grows  in  richest  profusion  over  the  hills 
and  glens  of  Greece. 

When  Shelley  wished  to  portray  the  magical  effects  of  Pan's 
music  upon  surrounding  nature,  he  could  not  have  made  the 
god  utter  anything  more  expressive  than  that 

"  The  bees  on  the  bells  of  thyme 
****** 
Were  as  silent  as  ever  old  Tmolus  was, 
Listening  to  my  sweet  pipings." 

Lord  Bacon  appears  to  have  entertained  a  great  fondness 
for  the  fragrance  of  these  delicious  herbs,  and,  in  his  exquisite 
"  Essay  on  Gardening,"  bids  us  *'  set  whole  alleys  of  them,  to 
have  the  pleasure,  when  you  walk  or  tread,"  of  inhaling  the 
perfume  which  your  foot  crushes  out  of  their  bloom.  And 
again,  he  remarks,  "  I  like  also  little  heaps  in  the  nature  of 
mole-hills  (such  as  are  in  wild  heaths)  to  be  set  with  wild 
thyme." 

Lemon  Thyme,  although  preferable  for  culinary  purposes,  is 
not  so  odoriferous  as  the  uncultivated  kind. 


>o 


G> 


Cypress. 

(MOURNING.) 
*'The  cypress  is  the  emblem  of  mourning.' 


Shakspeare. 


IN  every  country  and  from  the  earliest  ages  the  Cypress  has 
been  ever  deemed  the  emblem  of  mourning ;  and  the 
reason  is  not  difficult  to  imagine.  Where  the  gloomy  foliage 
of  this  doleful-looking  tree  meets  the  view,  that  sympathetic 
bond  which  unites  man  with  nature  excites  melancholy  feel- 
ings, and  makes  the  beholder  intuitively  aware  that  the  sombre 
shadows  trailing  round  these  impenetrable  branches  are  really 
associated  with  the  saddening  thoughts  he  entertains. 

!No  one  can  be  surprised  that  our  earliest  ancestors  selected 
so  doleful  a  looking  tree  to  symbolize  their  grief,  or  even  that 
it  is  still  used  as  a  funereal  sign.  Ancient  writers,  ever  ready 
to  seize  upon  and  convert  to  their  own  purposes  the  peculi- 
arities of  nature,  were  not  long  in  fashioning  a  pretty  fable 
to  account  for  the  dismal  hue  of  the  cypress.  According  to 
Ovid,  this  tree  was  named  after  Cyparlssus,  an  especial  favourite 
of  Apollo.  This  feeling  youth,  having  accidentally  slain  his 
darling  stag,  was  so  sorrow-stricken  that  he  besought  the  gods 
to  doom  his  life  to  everlasting  glocm  ;  and  they,  in  compliance 
with  his  request,  transformed  him  into  a  cypress-tree. 

**  When,  lost  in  tears,  the  blood  his  veins  forsakes, 
His  every  limb  a  grassy  hue  partakes ; 
His  flowing  tresses,  stiff  and  bushy  grown, 
Point  to  the  stars,  and  taper  to  a  cone. 
Apollo  thus :   '  Ah  !  youth,  beloved  in  vain, 
Long  shall  thy  boughs  the  gloom  I  feel  retain : 
Henceforth,  when  mourners  grieve,  their  grief  to  share, 
Emblem  of  woe   the  cypress  shall  be  there." 


Cypress.  189 

And  emblem  of  woe  the  tree  has  been  ever  since.    Lucan  tells 
us  of 

" The  cypress  by  the  noble  mourner  worn." 

Virgil  invariably  introduces  it  into  the  burial  rites  of  his 
heroes ;  he  describes  "  the  sweet  cypress  "  as  "  sign  of  deadly 
bale."  Tasso,  who  also  designated  this  tree  "the  funereal 
cypress,"  remarks  that  at  Dudon's  burial, 

*'  Of  cypress  sad  a  pile  his  friends  compose, 

Under  a  hill  o'ergrown  with  cedars  tall ; 
Beside  the  hearse  a  fruitful  palm-tree  grows 

(Ennobled  since  by  this  great  funeral), 
Where  Dudon's  corpse  they  softly  laid  in  ground. " 

Statius  also  alludes  to  its  being  thus  used  at  burials  ;  and  in 
the  Italian  Arcadia,  the  shepherd  bids  his  friend  perform  the 
last  pious  offices  for  him,  and  "  make  me  a  tomb  amongst 
cypresses."  Spenser,  lamenting  the  loss  of  Sir  Philip  Sidney, 
requests 

"Instead  of  garlands,  wear  sad  cypress  now;  " 

and  again,  in  his  "  Faerie  Queen,"  amongst  other  gloomy 
emblems,  he  says, 

"There  mournful  cypress  grew." 

Shakspeare  several  times  alludes  to  its  ominous  character ; 
and  in  the  Second  Part  of  "  Henry  VI.,"  the  Earl  of  Suffolk, 
when  invoking  curses  upon  his  enemies,  would  have 

**  Their  sweetest  shade  a  grove  of  cypress-trees." 

Cowley,  in  his  lines  to  the  memory  of  Mrs.  Hervey,  refers 
to  its  mythological  origin  as  well  as  its  inauspicious  reputation. 

In  turning  to  modern  poets,  one  finds  no  lack  of  references 
to  the  melancholy  omen  of  this  tree.  Sir  Walter  Scott  leads 
the  sad  procession  with  a  doleful  song : 

"  O  lady,  twine  no  wreath  for  me, 
Or  twine  it  of  the  cypress-tree." 

Byron  beautifully  terms  it  that 

'*  Dark  tree !  still  sad  when  other's  grief  is  fled, 
The  only  constant  mourner  o'er  the  dead. " 

Robert  Montgomery  deemed  its  associations  too  sombre 
even  for  death : 


190  CVPRESS. 

*'  And  oft  the  living,  by  affection  led, 
Were  wont  to  walk  in  spirit  with  their  dead, 
Where  no  dark  cypress  cast  a  doleful  gloom, 
4  Nor  blighting  yew  shed  poison  o'er  the  tomb  ; 

But,  white  and  red  with  intermingling  flowers. 
Green  myrtle  fenced  it,  and  beyond  their  bound 
Ran  the  clear  rill  with  ever-murmuring  sound." 

Shelley  does  not  overlook  the  melancholy  customs  connected 
with  the  cypress,  and  makes  us  dread  the  fate  of  that  unwept, 
lovely  youth  whom  no  mourning  maidens  decked 

"With  weeping  flowers,  or  votive  cypress  wreath, 
The  lone  couch  of  his  everlasting  sleep. " 

Last,  but  not  least  of  the  tuneful  quire  who  hang  their  votive 
wreaths  upon  the  dark  urn  of  the  buried  Past,  is  Eliza  Cook, 
and  in  her  thoroughly  symbolic  poem  of  *'  The  Wreaths,"  she 
enters  thus  poetically  into  the  typical  spirit  of  this  funereal 
plant : 

**  Who  wears  the  cypress,  dark  and  drear? 
The  one  who  is  shedding  the  motliiner's  tear : 
The  gloomy  branch  for  ever  twiti&- 
Round  foreheads  graved  with  Sorrow's  lines. 
'T.is  the  type  of  a  sad  and  lonely  heart, 
That  hath  seen  its  dearest  hopes  depart. 
Oh  !  who  can  like  the  chaplet  band 
That  is  wove  by  Melancholy's  hand?" 

By  the  Greeks  and  Romans  the  cypress  was  consecrated  to 
the  Fates,  the  Furies,  to  Pluto  and  Proserpine,  and  was  planted 
by  them  around  graves. 

The  tree  still  retains  its  melancholy  interest,  and  as  a  ceme- 
tery decoration  is  yet  used  in  all  countries  pretending  to  civiliza- 
tion. In  Mahommedan  "  Cities  of  the  Dead,"  as  they  poetically 
style  their  places  of  burial,  the  cypress  is  ever  prominent,  and 
is  frequently  planted  not  only  at  the  head  and  foot,  but  often 
upon  the  grave  itself.  Large  groves  of  these  trees  are  care- 
fully cultivated,  in  order  to  supply  mourners  with  them  when 
required.  Even  in  Japan  the  cypress  expresses  a  similar 
sombre  idea  as  with  Europeans,  and  the  native  churches  there 
are  said  to  be  generally  surrounded  by  alleys  of  cypresses. 

When  death  was  in  the  dwelling,  the  ancients  were  accus- 
tomed to  place  cypress  either  before  the  house  or  in  the 
vestibule,  so  that  no  person  about  to  perform  any  sacred  rites 


Cvpre::^^.  191 

might  enter  a  place  polluted  with  a  dead  body.  It  has  been 
stated  that  the  cypress  was  selected  for  these  melancholy 
occasions,  because  this  tree,  being  once  cut  down,  never  springs 
up  again  ;  but,  as  Evelyn  very  justly  observes,  this  view  would 
render  it  an  improper  emblem  for  a  Christian  country.  "  The 
use  of  evergreens,"  he  remarks,  "  is  yet  not  uncommon  amongst 
us  ;  but  they  are  supposed  to  be  significant  of  immortality,  at 
the  same  time  that  their  balsamic  scent  guards  the  attendants 
against  the  infection  to  be  apprehended." 

It  has  been  noticed  by  a  distinguished  floral  writer,  that 
those  various  plants  used  upon  these  sad  occasions  are  almost 
invariably  fragrant  and  powerful,  although  not  always  sweet- 
scented,  as  for  instance,  yew,  rosemary,  basil,  and  others. 

The  fragrance  of  the  cypress  is  an  old  theme  with  the  poets 
— those  illustrators  of  all  natural  secrets.  Homer  alludes  to 
this  pleasant  odour,  when  in  the  fifth  book  of  his  "  Odyssey" 
he  describes  the  cave  of  Calypso  ;  and  Theocritus  talks  of 
"  odorous  cypresses."  Virgil,  and  other  later  poets,  repeatedly 
call  it  "  the  sweet  cypress."  The  balsamic  scent  of  its  timber 
formerly  caused  it  to  be  held  in  great  repute,  and  chips  of  it 
were,  as  Evelyn  remarks,  frequently  used  to  flavour  wine  with. 
Miller  says,  "  This  tree  is  recommended  by  many  learned 
authors  for  the  improvement  of  the  air,  and  as  a  specific  for 
the  lungs,  as  sending  forth  quantities  of  aromatic  scents  ; 
wherefore  many  of  the  ancient  physicians  of  the  Eastern 
countries  used  to  send  their  patients  who  were  troubled 
with  weak  lungs  to  the  island  of  Candia,  which  at  that  time 
abounded  with  these  trees," 

This  island  is  yet  famous  for  its  cypresses,  and  there,  as 
also  in  Malta,  they  are  much  used  for  buildings — a  purpose 
for  which  their  marvellous  durability  eminently  fits  them. 
The  bridge  built  by  Semiramis  over  the  Euphrates  was  of  this 
wood  ;  and  so  satisfied  was  Plato  with  its  hardness  and  im- 
perishableness,  that  he  had  the  laws  engraved  upon  tablets  ot 
cypress  in  preference  to  brass  itself  Pliny  relates  that  the 
statue  of  Jupiter  in  the  Capitol,  made  of  this  wood  in  the 
year  of  Rome  661,  was  sound  in  his  time;  whilst,  in  proof  of 
the  immense  age  which  the  tree  attains,  he  says  that  some 
then  in  Rome  were  more  ancient  than  the  city  itself  Several 
fine  lofty  cypresses  are  said  to  be  still  growing  in  the  gardens 


192  CVPRESS. 

of  a  palace  in  Grenada,  that  were  large  trees  in  the  reign  of 
Ardeli,  the  last  Moorish  monarch  in  Spain.  These  famous 
trees  are  known  as  Los  Cypresses  de  la  Reina  Sultana,  or  the 
Queen's  Cypresses,  because  under  their  shade  the  slandered 
princess  was  accused  of  having  entertained  her  lover,  Aben- 
cerrage. 

Evelyn  goes  into  a  long  description  of  the  manifold  purposes 
to  which  the  seeming  imperishable  wood  of  this  tree  has  been 
put.  "  It  was  used  for  harps  and  divers  other  musical  instru- 
ments," he  remarks,  "  it  being  a  sonorous  wood,  and  therefore 
employed  for  organ-pipes ;  resisting  the  worm,  moth,  and  all 
putrefaction  to  eternity.  What  the  uses  of  this  timber  are," 
he  adds,  "  the  Venetians  sufficiently  understood,  who  did  every 
twentieth  year,  and  oftener  (the  Romans  every  thirteenth), 
make  a  considerable  revenue  of  it  out  of  Candy  ;  and  certainly 
a  very  gainful  commodity  it  was,  when  the  fell  of  a  plantation 
of  cypresses  was  reputed  a  good  portion  for  a  daughter,  and 
the  plantation  itself  called  Das  filice.  But  there  was  in  Candy 
a  vast  wood  of  these  trees  belonging  to  the  Republic,  by  malice 
or  accident,  or  perhaps  by  solar  heat,  set  on  fire,  which — 
beginning  amio  1400 — continued  burning  for  seven  years  before 
it  could  be  extinguished,  being  fed  for  so  long  a  space  by  the 

unctuous  nature  of  the  timber Formerly  the  valves  of 

St.  Peter's  Church  were  formed  of  this  material,  which  lasted 
from  the  great  Constantine  to  Pope  Eugenius  IV.'s  time — 
eleven  hundred  years — and  then  were  found  as  fresh  and  entire 
as  if  they  had  been  new.  But  this  Pope  would  needs  change 
them  for  gates  of  brass,  which  were  cast  by  the  famous  Antonio 
Philarete:  not,  in  my  opinion,  so  venerable  as  those  of  cypress." 

Thucydides  states  that  the  Athenians  buried  their  heroes 
in  coffins  of  this  wood  ;  whilst  the  apparently  indestructible 
chests  in  which  the  Egyptians  placed  their  mummies  are  of  the 
same  material,  and  they  have  doubtless  lain  in  their  resting- 
places  for  thousands  of  years.  Vitruvius  and  Martial  have 
celebrated  the  durability  and  beauty  of  this  timber  :  the  wild 
cypress  especially  was  admired  for  this  latter  quality  ;  its  roots 
were  deemed  incomparable  for  their  crisped  undulations.  It 
was  in  great  request  amongst  the  Romans  for  beds  and  tables 
and,  as  such,  Lucan  is  supposed  to  have  alluded  to  it  in  his 
''  Pharsalia." 


Cypress.  193 

It  has  been  observed  that  no  other  tree  blends  so  well  with 
stone  buildings.     Byron  tells  of 

"The  cypress  saddening  by  the  sacred  mosques;" 

and  Dallaway  describes  the  Seraglio  at  Constantinople,  as 
encircled  with  embattled  walls,  with  its  domes  and  kiosques 
clustered  in  splendid  confusion,  and  intermixed  with  gigantic 
cypresses,  rising  in  the  sea  from  an  elevation  which  Nature 
seems  to  have  intended  for  the  seat  of  dominion  over  the  whole 
world. 

Homer  and  Virgil  frequently  refer  to  the  wood  of  this  tree 
being  used  for  building  purposes  ;  and  they,  and  many  other 
ancient  and  modern  poets,  allude  to  its  pyramidal  form,  but 
none  more  beautifully  than  Shelley  : 

**  Thence  to  a  lonely  dwelling,  where  the  shore 
Is  shadowed  with  steep  rocks,  and  cypresses 
Cleave  with  their  dark  green  cones  the  silent  skies, 
And  with  their  shadows  the  clear  depths  below." 

Kirchmann  says  that  its  use  amongst  the  ancients  was  a 
sign  that  the  house  was  ftmesta,  or  afflicted  with  death,  for 
the  reason  that  slips  from  it  will  not  grow  ;  whilst  Horace 
observes  that  of  all  the  trees  you  plant,  none  will  follow  its 
brief  master  but  the  hated  cypress.  Evelyn  desires  his  readers 
not  to  "  despair  of  the  resurrection  of  a  cypress  subverted  by 
the  wind,  for  some  have  redressed  themselves  ;  and  one  (as 
Tiphilinus  mentions)  rose  the  next  day,  which  happening 
about  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Vespasian,  was  esteemed  a 
happy  omen  1  '* 


'^©^^^ 


13 


w 
-s^ 


St.   John's  Wort. 

(SUPERSTITION.) 

*'I  must  gather  the  mystic  St.  John's  wort  to-night, 
The  wonderful  herb  whose  leaf  will  decide 
If  the  coming  year  shall  make  me  a  bride." 

From  the  German, 

THIS  bright  yellow  blossom,  with  its  glittering  golden 
stamens,  is  very  well  known  by  its  generic  name  of  Jiype- 
ricum,  but  as  the  floral  symbol  of  superstition,  its  old  English 
appellation  of  St.  JoJms  wort  seems  most  appropriate.  In  the 
earliest  records  of  the  wonderful  properties  assigned  to  this 
world-renowned  emblem,  it  is  styXtd  fuga  dcs7nonum,  or  deviVs 
fii^ht,  because  the  virtue  was  ascribed  to  it  of  frightening  away 
"auld  Hornie,"  and  all  his  mischievous  crew,  of  defending 
folks  from  spectres,  and  of  generally  putting  all  evil-disposed 
apparitions  to  the  rout.  "  For  the  same  reason,"  says  one 
florigraphical  authority,  "  it  was  also  called  sol  terristris,  or  the 
'  terrestrial  sun,'  because  the  spirits  of  darkness  were  believed 
to  vanish  at  the  approach  of  that  luminary."  To  the  peasantry 
of  France,  and  of  the  less  educated  countries  of  Germany,  this 
flower  is  still  endowed  with  marvellous  qualities ;  and  on  the 
nativity  of  St.  John  the  Baptist — that  is  to  say,  on  the  24th  of 
June — it  is  customary  for  the  villagers  to  gather  and  hang  over 
the  cottage  doors  and  windows  some  of  these  blossoms,  in  the 
belief  that  its  sanctity  will  deter  malevolent  spirits  from  en- 
tering the  abode,  and  will  also  propitiate  their  patron  saint  in 
favour  of  the  inmates. 

In  Scotland  this  plant  is  still  carried  about  as  a  charm 
against  witchcraft  and  enchantment ;  and  in  some  out-of-the- 
way  parts  the  people  fancy  that  it  cures  ropy  milk,  which, 
they  suppose,  is  under  some  malignant  influence.  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  ballad,  "  The  Eve  of  Saint  John,"  is  a  good  illustration 


St.  John's    Wort.  195 


of  the  strong  superstitious  feeling  with  which  this  noted  day- 
was  formerly  regarded. 

Miss  Pratt,  in  one  of  her  charming  botanical  works,  alluding 
to  the  customs  yet  practised  upon  St.  John's  Day,  remarks 
that  "  in  Lorraine  no  persuasions  will  induce  the  peasant  to 
cut  down  his  grass  until  the  arrival  of  this  day,  however  the 
sun  may  have  prepared  it  for  the  scythe ;  while  it  matters  not 
that  the  season  be  retarded,  no  event  is  allowed  to  delay  the 
commencement  of  haying  at  this  period." 

It  is  generally  believed  in  the  Levant  that  on  the  anniver- 
sary of  this  sacred  day  the  plague  will  disappear  from  the 
country,  and  more  than  one  sad  disappointment  has  not  served 
to  eradicate  the  persuasion  from  the  Greek  mind. 

In  many  continental  places  rural  festivities  and  customs, 
similar  to  those  practised  on  Allhallow's-eve  by  the  Scotch, 
are  celebrated  on  this  day.  So  wide-spread  and  deep-rooted 
a  superstition  as  is  this  undoubtedly  points  to  a  very  ancient 
but  common  origin — one,  indeed,  far  older  than  that  supposed 
by  Miss  Pratt,  who  deems  these  practices  were  founded  on  a 
strange  misapprehension  of  the  Scriptural  words  which  likened 
St.  John  to  a  burning  and  shining  light.  That  lady,  in  support 
of  her  theory,  instances  the  blazing  bonfires  which — like  those 
of  Baal — were  formerly  built  upon  the  vigil  of  the  saint,  and 
round  which  danced  youths  and  maidens,  wreathed  with  ver- 
vain and  St.  John's  wort — as  even  were  the  Druidic  worshippers 
of  times  long  anterior — bunches  of  which  symbolic  flowers 
they  flung  into  the  flames,  at  the  same  time  that  they  fer- 
vently invoked  St.  John,  and  besought  Heaven  to  render  the 
coming  year  more  bountiful  with  good  gifts,  and  more  sparing 
of  sorrows,  than  the  one  departing  had  been.  "  In  London," 
Miss  Pratt  remarks,  "  in  addition  to  the  bonfires,  the  festival 
was  signified  by  every  man's  door  being  shaded  with  green 
birch,  long  fennel,  St.  John's  wort,  orpine,  white  lilies,  and  other 
typical  plants,  and  ornamented  with  garlands  of  beautiful 
flowers." 

Another  remarkable  quality  ascribed  to  this  plant  by  our 
ancestors  was  the  power  it  possessed  of  curing  all  sorts  of 
wounds,  and  in  this  belief,  doubtless,  originated  its  name  of 
tutsa?i,  an  evident  corruption  of  its  French  cognomen,  la  tonte 
saifie,  or  all-heal.    The  common  perforated  St.  John's  wort  was 

13 — 2 


196  St.  John's    Wort. 


also  formerly  called  "  the  balm  of  the  warrior's  wound,"  and 
"the  herb  of  war,"  in  allusion  not  merely  to  its  presumed 
healing  powers,  but  also  to  the  little  dots  on  the  leaves,  which 
look  like  small  holes.    As  the  poet  sings, 

"  Hypericum  was  there,  the  herb  of  war, 
Pierced  through  with  wounds,  and  marked  with  many  a  scar." 

The  utility  of  this  plant  in  the  cure  of  wounds  was  not  alto- 
gether imaginary,  and  although  more  powerful  agents  have  now 
taken  its  place,  it  is  still  used  in  some  medicines  on  account  of 
its  balsamic  qualities,  and  its  flowers  still  supply  a  fine  purple 
dye  with  which  oils  and  spirits  are  coloured. 

The  authoress  of  "  Flora  Domestica "  says  that,  as  the 
flowers  rubbed  between  the  fingers  yield  a  red  juice,  the  plant 
has  also  been  styled  amongst  fanciful  medical  writers  sanguis 
hominis,  or  human  blood.  Some  species  of  the  hypericum  are 
noted  for  their  remarkable  fulness  of  blossom,  and  as  such 
they  have  obtained  the  notice  of  Cowper  : 

*'  Hypericum,  all  bloom,  so  thick  a  swarm 
Of  flowers,  like  flies,  clothing  its  slender  rods, 
That  scarce  a  leaf  appears." 

After  this  profusion  of  blossom  has  died  away,  the  plant 
bears  a  number  of  reddish-tinted  berries,  with  an  odour  which 
has  been  aptly  compared  to  that  of  rosin. 


j^^ 


Marvel  of  Peru. 

(TIMIDITY.) 

"As  sacred  as  the  light 
She  fears  to  perfume,  perfuming  the  night." 

Edgar  A.  Poe. 

THE  belle  of  the  nighty  as  the  gallant  French  have  prettily 
named  this  sweet  emblem  of  bashfid  love,  was  christened 
the  Marvel  of  Peru,  because  of  the  wonderful  diversity  of 
colours  in  the  flowers  ;  although  Rousseau,  in  his  "  Letters  on 
Botany,"  avers  that  it  obtained  this  attractive  title  from  the 
fact  that  when  it  was  first  brought  over  from  the  New  World, 
as  people  were  then  fond  of  designating  America,  everything 
was  represented  as  marvellous.  "  Strange  stories,"  he  remarks, 
**  were  related  of  the  plants  and  animals  they  met  with  ;  and 
those  which  were  sent  to  Europe  had  pompous  names  given 
to  them.  One  of  these  is  the  marvel  of  Peru,  the  only  wonder 
of  which,"  he  remarks,  "  is  the  variety  of  colours  in  the  flower." 
Despite  the  sneers  of  J.  J.,  this  night  beauty  has  other  claims 
upon  our  admiration  besides  the  astonishing  variation  of  its 
colours — a  variation,  however,  that  of  itself  is  anything  but 
contemptible  ;  for  frequently  from  the  same  roots  may  be  seen 
blossoms 

**  Changing  from  the  splendid  rose. 
To  the  pale  violet's  dejected  hue," 

But  what  renders  this  bashful  little  floral  gem  a  favourite 
flower,  especially  in  England,  is  the  fact  that  it  is  one  of  those 
"plants  which  wake  when  others  sleep,"  of  which  only  a  very 
few  retain  their  nocturnal  watchfulness  in  these  colder  climes, 
whatever  may  be  their  habits  in  their  native  tropics.  Rare, 
indeed,  amongst  us,  are  those  plants  of  which  the  poet  sings  : 


198  Marvel  of  Peru. 


**Thy  flower,  her  vigil  lone  hath  kept 

With  Love's  untiring  care ; 
Though  round  her  pinks  and  violets  slept, 
She  wakefully  hath  watch'd,  and  wept 

Unto  the  dewy  air." 

This  true  marvel  is  really  one  of  those  flowers  which,  alone 
and  unobserved,  in  maidenly  shame,  seem  to  wait  for  the  veil 
of  night  ere  they  give  way  to  their  feelings  and  exhale  them 
in  sweet  aromas.  They  are,  indeed,  those  timid  blooms  of 
night  which  weep  for  joy  when 

"Soft  incense,  such 
As  steals  from  herbs  'midst  pleasant  fields  in  June, 
Freights  the  night  air. " 

The  ordinary  marvel  of  Peru  bedecks  itself  with  a  profusion 
of  gay  blossoms,  which  it  continually  replenishes,  in  mild 
seasons  retaining  its  beauty  from  the  beginning  of  July  to  the 
end  of  October.  In  warm  weather  the  flowers  do  not  unclose 
till  the  evening ;  but  when  the  days  are  cooler,  and  the  sun 
obscured,  the  timid  little  blooms  keep  open  the  whole  day. 

The  Forked  Marvel  is  a  native  of  Mexico,  and  its  blossoms, 
which  are  smaller  than  those  of  the  other  varieties,  do  not  vary 
in  their  colour,  which  is  a  purple  red.  It  is  known  in  America 
as  the  "  four-o'clock  flower,"  because  of  the  flower's  opening  at 
that  time  of  the  day. 

The  sweet-scented  varieties  of  these  flowers  have  white 
blossoms,  and  they,  as  do  the  other  kinds,  remain  closed  during 
the  day,  and  keep 

*'  Their  odour  to  themselves  all  day. 
But  when  the  sunlight  dies  away, 
Let  the  delicious  secret  out 
To  every  breeze  that  roams  about. " 

The  odour  of  these  flowers,  however,  is  not  admired  by 
every  one,  since  it  is  of  musk,  to  which  many  have  a  decided 
antipathy. 

Mrs.  Hemans  has  left  us  debtors  for  the  following  exquisite 
discourse  with  "  Night-scented  Flowers  : " 

*'  Call  back  your  odours,  lonely  flowers, 
From  the  night-wind  call  them  back ; 
And  fold  your  leaves  till  the  laughing  hours 
Come  forth  in  the  sunbeam's  track. 


Marvel  of  Peru.  199 


**The  lark  lies  couched  in  her  grassy  nest, 
And  the  honey-bee  is  gone, 
And  all  bright  things  are  away  to  rest ; 
Why  watch  ye  here  alone? 

*'Nay,  let  our  shadowy  beauty  bloom 
When  the  stars  give  quiet  light, 
And  let  us  offer  our  faint  perfume 
On  the  silent  shrine./of  night. 

"Call  it  not  wasted,  the  scent  we  lend 
To  the  breeze  when  no  step  is  nigh : 
Oh  !  thus  for  ever  the  earth  should  send 
Her  grateful  breath  on  high ! 

"And  love  us  as  emblems,  night's  devi^  flowers, 
Of  hopes  unto  sorrow  given, 
That  spring  through  the  gloom  of  the  darkest  hours, 
Looking  alone  to  heaven." 

Phillips  has  observed  that  however  timid  these  flowers  may- 
appear  in  the  sunshine,  at  eventide  they  endure  the  strongest 
artificial  light  as  unrepiningly  as  other  belles  who  "  shine  at  the 
same  hour  with  this  emblem  of  timidity." 

Had  he  been  acquainted  with  itc  symbolism,  what  comfort- 
ing aid  could  not  this  little  garden  blossom  have  afforded  the 
bashful  lover  of  whom  Gerald  Massey  sweetly  sings  ; 

"Yet  she  weeteth  not  I  love  her; 
Never  dare  I  tell  the  sweet 
Tale  but  to  the  stars  above  her, 
And  the  flowers  that  kiss  her  feet" 


^■^*^^^^|(^!^l;^^^s^ 


RO  SEM  ARY. 

(REMEMBRANCE.) 

"  There 's  rosemary  for  you  :  that's  for  remembrance." 

Shakspeare. 

NUMBERLESS  quotations  from  our  older  poets  might 
be  given  to  prove  that  our  forefathers  invariably  adopted 
Rosemary  as  the  symbol  of  remeinbrance ;  and  as  it  was  once 
believed  to  possess  the  power  of  improving  the  memory,  and 
was  frequently  employed  as  a  means  of  invigorating  the  mental 
faculties,  it  is  presumed,  and  with  some  show  of  probability,  that 
it  thus  became  the  emblem  of  that  quality  with  which  it  was 
so  frequently  associated.  Perdita,  in  the  "  Winter's  Tale,'* 
says : 

**  For  you  there 's  rosemary  and  rue ;  these  keep 
Seeming  and  savour  all  the  winter  long : 
Grace  and  remembrance  be  with  you  both ! " 

And  then,  in  Kamlet,  as  if  determined  to  prove  his  acquaint- 
ance with  floral  symbolism,  Shakspeare  makes  Ophelia  say : 

*'  There 's  rosemary  for  you :  that 's  for  remembrance. 
Pray  you,  love,  remember." 

Michael  Drayton,  in  his  "  Pastorals,"  also  alludes  to  this 
emblem  in  similar  terms  : 

* '  He  from  his  lass  him  lavender  hath  sent, 
Showing  her  love,  and  doth  requital  crave ; 
Him  rosemary  his  sweetheart,  whose  intent 
Is  that  he  her  should  in  remembrance  have." 

Highly  esteemed  as  this  plant  was  because  of  its  being  consi- 
dered "  a  comforter  of  the  brain,"  and  a  strengthener  of  mental 
faculties — and  for  these  reasons  deemed  typical  of  that  fidelity 
and  devotion  to  the  gentler  sex  which  is  presumed  to  have 
been  a  prominent  characteristic  of  the  days  of  chivalry — rose- 


Rosemary.  201 


mary  was  also  still  more  prized  as  a  decoration  at  bridals  and 
other  domestic  occasions.  It  was  worn  at  weddings,  remarks 
Miss  Kent,  to  signify  the  fidelity  of  the  lovers. 

*  *  Will  I  be  wed  this  morning, 
Thou  shalt  not  be  there,  nor  once  be  graced  with 
A  piece  of  rosemary," 

remarks  one  of  the  characters  in  "Ram  Alley;"  and  in  the 
"  Noble  Spanish  Soldier  "  we  read  : 

* '  I  meet  few  but  are  stuck  with  rosemary :  every 
One  asked  me  who  was  to  be  married." 

It  is  not  only  from  the  pages  of  poets  and  literary  men 
generally,  however,  that  these  allusions  may  be  culled.  Ro- 
bert Hacket,  a  whilom  celebrated  doctor  of  divinity,  in  a 
sermon,  which  was  published  in  1607,  under  the  title  of  "A 
Marriage  Present,"  thus  expatiates  upon  the  powers  of  rose- 
mary :  "  It  overtoppeth,"  he  says,  '*  all  the  flowers  in  the  garden 
boasting  man's  rule.  It  helpeth  the  brain,  strengtheneth  the 
memorie,  and  is  very  medicinable  for  the  head.  Another 
property  of  the  rosemary  is,  it  affects  the  heart.  Let  this 
rosmarinus,  this  flower  of  men,  ensign  of  your  wisdom,  love, 
and  loyaltie,  be  carried,  not  only  in  your  hands,  but  in  your 
hearts  and  heads." 

Rosmarinus,  as  this  plant  is  botanically  styled,  signifies  the 
"  dew  of  the  sea,"  and  is  so  called  because  of  its  fondness  for 
the  sea-beat  shores,  whence  its  perfume  often  greets  the  mariner 
as  he  sails  by.  Formerly  the  plant  was  styled  Rosinarinuni 
coronariuin ;  "that  is  to  say,"  observes  Lyte,  "rosemarie  where- 
of they  make  crowns  and  garlands."  Frequently,  entwined 
with  laurel  and  myrtle,  rosemary  was  formed  into  chaplets, 
with  which  the  principal  personages  at  feasts  were  crowned. 
In  his  "Garden  of  Flowers,"  Parkmson,  after  recounting  the 
numerous  symbolic  and  other  uses  to  which  bay-leaves  are  put, 
remarks  that  "Rosemary  is  almost  of  as  great  use  as  bayes, 
as  well  for  civil  as  physical  purposes  ;  for  civil  uses,  as  all  doe 
know,  at  weddings,  funerals,  &c.,  to  bestow  among  friends." 

Respecting  its  employment  at  funerals,  Mr.  Martyn  observes 
that  in  some  parts  of  England,  in  his  time,  it  was  still  cus- 
tomary to  distribute  it  among  the  company,  who  frequently 
threw  sprigs  of  it  into  the  grave.     Slips  of  it  were  also  some- 


202  Rosemary. 


times  placed  within  the  coffin  ;  and  in  some  secluded  villages 
these  innocent  customs  are  still  practised.  This  plant  is  like- 
wise often  planted  near  or  upon  graves,  to  which  practice 
Kirke  White  thus  mournfully  refers  : 

"  Come,  funeral  flower  !  who  lovest  to  dwell 
With  the  pale  corse  in  lonely  tomb. 
And  throw  across  the  desert  gloom 

A  sweet  decaying  smell ; 
Come,  press  my  lips,  and  lie  with  me 
Beneath  the  lowly  alder-tree, 

And  we  will  sleep  a  pleasant  sleep, 
And  not  a  care  shall  dare  intrude, 
To  break  the  marble  solitude, 

So  peaceful  and  so  deep." 

Moore  parallels  not  only  this  funereal  imagery,  but  also  alludes 
to  its  perfuming  the  desert  gloom: 

"  The  humble  rosemary, 
Whose  sweets  so  thanklessly  are  shed 
To  scent  the  desert  and  the  dead." 

In  the  days  of  yore,  rosemary  was  in  great  request  at  Christ- 
mas-tide for  decorative  purposes  :  the  roast  beef  was  crested 
with  bays  and  rosemary ;  the  flaming  tankards  were  flavoured 
with  sprigs  of  it,  and  the  liquor  stirred  with  it,  in  order,  as  our 
ancestors  fancied,  to  improve  its  flavour.  One  of  the  mummers 
attendant  upon  Father  Christmas,  who  personated  New  Year's 
Gift,  was  represented  by  a  man  wearing  a  blue  coat,  and  hold- 
ing in  his  hand  a  sprig  of  rosemary.  The  silvery  leaves  of 
this  plant  mingled  well  with  the  glossy  holly  and  yellow-green 
mistletoe,  in  decking  rooms  and  churches.  Herrick  alludes  to 
all  these  evergreens  in  the  following  lines,  as  also  to  the  custom 
of  replacing  them,  after  a  certain  time,  by  others  typical  of 
festivals  occurring  later  in  the  year  : 

**  Down  with  the  rosemary,  and  so 
Down  with  the  baies  and  mistletoe ; 
Down  with  the  holly,  ivy,  all 
Wherewith  ye  deck  the  Christmas  hall ; 
No  one  least  branch  leave  there  behind, 
For  look  how  many  leaves  there  be 
Neglected  there — maids,  'tend  to  me — 
So  many  goblins  ye  shall  see." 

The  common  rosemary  is  supposed  to  have  been  introduced 
into  England  by  the  monks,  in  the  gardens  of  whose  monas- 


Rosemary  203 


teries  it  occupied,  on  account  of  its  presumed  curative  powers, 
a  respected  position,  and  received  constant  care.  It  was  con- 
sidered very  ornamental,  and  its  silvery  foliage  was  a  favourite 
decoration  of  the  garden  walls.  In  Queen  Elizabeth's  time 
it  grew  all  over  the  walls  of  the  gardens  at  Hampton  Court 
Palace ;  but  now  is  banished  from  the  flower  to  the  kitchen- 
garden,  and  there,  indeed,  lingers  half-neglected.  Shenstone 
thus  expresses  his  indignation  at  the  disrespect  paid  to  rose- 
mary in  modern  times : 

**  And  here,  trim  rosemarine,  that  whilom  crown'd 
The  daintiest  garden  of  the  proudest  peer, 
Ere,  driven  from  its  envied  site,  it  found 
A  sacred  shelter  for  its  branches  here, 
Where,  edged  with  gold,  its  glittering  skirts  appear. 
Oh,  wassail  days !     Oh,  customs  meet  and  well ! 

Ere  this  was  banished  from  its  lofty  sphere : 
Simplicity  then  sought  this  humble  cell, 
Nor  ever  would  she  more  with  thane  and  lordling  dwell." 

It  is  a  common  saying  now-a-days,  that  '^  in  those  gardens 
where  the  rosemary  flourishes  the  lady  rules  the  roast,"  or,  in 
other  words,  ''  the  grey  mare  is  the  better  horse  of  the  twain." 

This  plant  is  often  cultivated  in  cottage-gardens  for  the 
bees  to  resort  to,  the  honey  which  they  extract  from  it  being 
considered  very  excellent.  The  far-famed  honey  of  Narbonne 
is  said  to  derive  its  superiority  from  the  abundance  of  rose- 
mary-bushes in  the  neighbourhood.  The  Narbonne  almost 
equals  in  fame  that  of  Mount  Ida,  of  which  Jupiter  was  so  fond. 


\t^ 


^\ 


o — ^-= ^ ^ 


c^£#^4^-^-#^^^:s 


Corn. 

(ABUNDANCE.) 

"  How  good  the  God  of  harvest  is  to  you, 

Who  pours  abundance  o'er  your  flowing  fields." 

Thomson. 

CORN,  which  is  the  generic  name  applied  to  all  kinds  of 
grain  suitable  for  food,  is  found  in  nearly  every  portion 
of  the  globe,  and  yet  botanists  assure  us  that  it  is  nowhere  to 
be  found  in  its  primitive  state,  or  that  any  of  the  various  plants 
which,  under  the  term  of  cerealia,  are  comprehended  in  this 
precious  family,  will  flourish  without  culture. 

Corn,  more  particularly  wheat,  is  the  most  valuable  of  all 
natural  productions ;  and  the  country  whose  soil  bears  plen- 
teous crops  of  this  in-every-way  appropriate  symbol  of  abim- 
dance,  can  afford  to  disregard  the  pretensions  of  all  rival  nations 
which  found  their  claims  to  wealth  merely  upon  the  strength 
of  their  mineral  riches. 

Ceres  was  the  Goddess  of  Corn,  as  indeed  her  name  signifies. 
She  was  usually  represented  as  a  beautiful  woman,  crowned 
with  ears  of  corn,  a  wheatsheaf  at  her  side,  and  the  Cornucopia, 
or  horn  of  plenty,  in  her  hand.  In  commemoration  of  the 
abduction  of  her  daughter  Proserpine  by  Pluto,  a  festival  was 
annually  held  about  the  beginning  of  harvest,  and  another 
celebration  in  remembrance  of  the  search  for  her  at  the  time 
of  sowing  the  corn.  During  the  search  of  Ceres  for  her 
daughter,  the  earth  was  left  quite  uncultivated;  but  on  her 
return  she  gave  instructions  to  her  favourite,  Triptolemus,  how 
to  cultivate  the  ground  and  superintend  corn  and  harvests. 
Ovid  thus  describes  the  affair  in  his  "  Metamorphoses  :" 

**  She  halts  at  Athens,  dropping  like  a  star, 
And  to  Triptolemus  resigns  her  car. 
Parent  of  seed,  she  gave  him  fruitful  grain, 
And  bade  him  teach  to  till  and  plough  the  main ; 
The  seed  to  sow,  as  well  in  fallow  fields, 
As  where  the  soil  manured  a  richer  harvest  yields." 


Corn.  205 

The  matchless  wealth  of  ancient  Egypt  is  supposed  to  have 
arisen  from  its  corn.  It  may  be  learnt,  from  the  interesting 
history  of  Joseph,  as  well  as  from  the  narrative  of  the  ten 
plagues,  how  famous  Egypt  was  in  those  days  for  its  wheat. 
Some,  indeed,  believe  that  country  to  have  been  the  parent  of 
this  species  of  grain,  and  certainly  the  earliest  historic  allusions 
to  it  are  in  connection  with  that  land,  whence,  it  is  conjectured, 
it  spread  along  the  shores  of  the  Mediterranean.  Under  the 
wise  administration  of  Joseph,  Egypt  was  able  to  supply  neigh- 
bouring nations,  in  a  time  of  wide-spread  famine,  with  the  re- 
quisite corn,  and  in  later  ages  served  as  a  vast  granary  for  the 
Roman  and  Eastern  empires.  The  belief  that  their  subjects 
would  not  be  able  to  subsist  without  Egyptian  grain  is  said 
to  have  induced  the  Roman  emperors  to  protect  the  Nile's 
fruitful  home.  This  same  river,  however,  which  enabled  Egypt 
to  feed  Rome  and  Constantinople,  the  then  two  most  populous 
cities  in  the  world,  sometimes  reduced  its  own  inhabitants  to 
the  direst  extremities  ;  and,  as  it  has  been  remarked,  it  is 
astonishing  that  the  wise  foresight  which,  in  fruitful  years, 
had  made  provision  for  seasons  of  sterility,  should  not  have 
taught  the  wise  politicians  to  adopt  similar  precautions  against 
the  contingency  of  the  failure  of  the  Nile.  Pliny,  in  his  eulogy 
on  the  Emperor  Trajan,  paints  in  glowing  but  undoubtedly 
exaggerated  colours,  not  merely  the  extremity  to  which  Egypt 
was  reduced  by  a  famine  in  the  reign  of  that  prince,  but  also 
the  magnificent  help  which  he  rendered  it.  "  The  Egyptians," 
says  this  Latin  author,  '*  who  gloried  that  they  needed  neither 
sun  nor  rain  to  produce  their  corn,  and  who  believed  they  might 
confidently  contest  the  prize  of  plenty  with  the  most  fruitful 
countries  of  the  world,  were  condemned  to  an  unexpected 
drought  and  a  fatal  sterility,  from  the  greater  part  of  their 
territories  being  deserted  and  left  unwatered  by  the  Nile, 
whose  inundation  is  the  source  and  standard  of  their  abun- 
dance. They  then  implored  that  assistance  from  their  prince 
which  they  had  been  accustomed  only  to  expect  from  their 
river.  The  delay  of  their  relief  was  no  longer  than  that  which 
employed  a  courier  to  bring  the  melancholy  news  to  Rome  ; 
and  one  would  have  imagined  that  this  misfortune  had  befallen 
them  only  to  display  with  greater  lustre  the  generosity  and 
goodness  of  Caesar.     It  was  an  ancient  and  general  opinion 


2o6  Corn. 

that  our  city  could  not  subsist  without  provisions  drawn  from 
Egypt.  This  vain  and  proud  nation  boasted  that,  though  con- 
quered, they  nevertheless  fed  their  conquerors;  that,  by  means 
of  their  river,  either  abundance  or  scarcity  were  entirely  at 
their  own  disposal.  But  we  have  now  returned  the  Nile  his 
own  harvests,  and  given  him  back  the  provisions  he  sent  us. 
Let  the  Egyptians  be,  then,  convinced  by  their  own  expe- 
rience, that  they  are  not  necessary  to  us,  and  are  only  our 
vassals.  Let  them  know  that  their  ships  do  not  so  much 
bring  us  the  provision  we  stand  in  need  of,  as  the  tribute  which 
they  owe  us.  And  let  them  never  forget  that  we  can  do  with- 
out them,  but  that  they  can  never  do  without  us.  This  most 
fruitful  province  had  been  ruined,  had  it  not  worn  the  Roman 
chains.  The  Egyptians,  in  their  sovereign,  found  a  deliverer 
and  a  father.  Astonished  at  the  sight  of  their  granaries  filled 
without  any  labour  of  their  own,  they  were  at  a  loss  to  know 
to  whom  they  owed  this  foreign  and  gratuitous  plenty.  The 
famine  of  a  people,  though  at  such  a  distance  from  us,  though 
so  speedily  stopped,  served  only  to  let  them  feel  the  advan- 
tage of  living  under  our  empire.  The  Nile  may,  in  other  times, 
have  diffused  more  plenty  in  Egypt,  but  never  more  glory 
upon  us." 

Despite  this  splendid  harangue  in  favour  of  foreign  despot- 
ism, for  it  was  neither  more  nor  less  than  that,  Egypt  had 
every  reason  to  be  proud  of  her  productiveness  in  respect  to 
corn ;  and  that  both  Rome  and  Constantinople  well  knew. 
It  was  the  accusation  brought  against  St.  Athanasius,  of  his 
having  threatened  to  impede  in  future  the  importation  of 
corn  into  the  latter  city  from  Alexandria,  which  so  greatly 
incensed  the  Emperor  Constantine  against  him,  that  sovereign 
being  well  aware  how  much  his  capital  had  to  rely  upon  the 
grain  exported  thither  from  Egypt. 

It  has  been  said  that  an  entire  straw  symbolized  u7iion,  and 
the  breaking  of  a  straw  rupture.  The  antiquity  of  this  latter 
emblem  is  traced  back  to  a  very  early  period,  and  from  an 
event  recorded  by  ancient  French  chroniclers  as  occurring  in 
922,  in  the  reign  of  Charles  the  Simple,  was  evidently  a  cus- 
tomary and  well-comprehended  mode  of  procedure  at  that 
time.  That  monarch,  defied  by  his  most  powerful  vassals, 
and  threatened  by  foreign  foes,  summoned  a  meeting  of  his 


Corn.  207 

barons  at  the  Champ  de  Mai,  at  Soissons.  When  there,  his 
unruly  chieftains,  only  rendered  more  audacious  by  his  con- 
cessions and  promises,  boldly  upbraided  him  for  his  incapacity, 
and  vehemently  declared  that  they  would  no  longer  submit 
to  the  government  of  such  a  king.  As  a  token  that  they  re- 
nounced their  allegiance,  they  advanced  to  the  foot  of  the 
throne,  and  angrily  breaking  the  straws  which  they  held,  flung 
them  on  the  ground,  and  retired  ;  by  this  act  manifesting  that 
all  compacts  between  him  and  them  were  broken. 

There  is  a  very  suggestive  story  told  of  an  Arab  having  lost 
his  track  in  the  desert,  and,  after  having  passed  two  days 
without  food,  of  his  having  arrived  at  an  oasis  frequented  by 
caravans.  Starvation  stared  him  in  the  face :  he  searched 
carefully  for  any  vestiges  of  food,  when,  to  his  delight,  he  per- 
ceived a  small  leathern  bag  lying  on  the  sand.  He  believed 
it  contained  flour — the  staff  of  life.  "God  be  praised!"  he 
exclaimed,  "I  am  saved!"  Hastily  untying  the  bag,  he 
eagerly  examined  its  contents.  "Alas!"  he  cried,  "unfortu- 
nate wretch  that  I  am  !  it  is  only  gold-dust !" 


Tulip. 

(A    DECLARATION    OF    LOVE.) 

THE  gaudy  Tulip  has  gathered  round  its  vividly  gay  petals 
quite  a  galaxy  of  anecdotes,  more  or  less  reliable.  It  is 
sometimes  marked  in  the  English  language  of  flowers  as  indi- 
cative of  vanity,  but  more  generally  under  its  Oriental  signifi- 
cation of  a  declaration  of  love.  Its  original  home  is  presumed 
to  be  Persia,  and  its  name  is  considered  a  corruption  of  the 
Persian  word  for  turban,  to  which  article  of  attire  it  bears  no 
little  similitude  ;  a  resemblance  of  which  Moore,  more  than 
once,  has  availed  himself  in  his  poem  of  *'  Lalla  Rookh." 

Busbeck,  the  Emperor  of  Germany's  ambassador  to  the 
Sultan,  in  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  was  greatly 
attracted  by  the  gay  colours  of  this  flower,  and  on  his  return 
to  his  native  land,  carried  some  of  the  bulbs  with  him.  They 
soon  became  great  favourites  with  the  florists.  They  were 
imported  into  Italy,  in  1577  into  England,  some  few  years 
later  into  France,  and  ere  long  were  domiciled  in  nearly  every 
European  climate. 

Beckman,  in  his  "  History  of  Inventions,"  gives  an  account 
of  how,  in  1634,  one  of  the  most  singular  manias  that  has  ever 
deranged  the  human  mind  broke  forth  in  Holland.  All  classes 
were  infected  with  an  extraordinary  desire  to  possess  rare  spe- 
cimens of  the  tulip  :  not,  indeed,  in  most  instances,  for  love 
of  the  flower,  but  rather  with  a  view  to  participate  in  the  pe- 
cuniary speculations  to  which  it  gave  rise.  For  a  single  bulb, 
which  the  Dutch  florists  had  grandiloquently  styled  Semper 
Augustus,  ;^400,  a  handsome  carriage  and  pair  of  horses,  with 
harness  complete,  is  recorded  to  have  been  given  ;  it  is  said 
that  ;^i,2D0  was  the  purchase-money  of  another ;  while  engage- 


^Ii«lll,ct  rlMV. 


Tulip. 


209 


ments  to  the  amount  of  ;^5,ooo  were  entered  into  for  a  third 
root  of  a  very  peculiar  species  ! 

To  such  an  extent  did  this  mania  at  length  extend,  that 
one  person,  who  had  possessed  an  income  of  more  than  ^3,060 
per  annum,  was  reduced  to  poverty  in  a  few  months  through 
speculating  in  these  flowers.  A  connoisseur  in  these  valuables, 
possessing  a  very  magnificent  specimen,  heard  that  there  ex- 
isted one  of  a  similar  kind  at  Haarlem.  He  journeyed  to  that 
city,  purchased  the  rival  blossom  at  an  enormous  outlay,  and 
as  soon  as  it  became  his,  crushed  it  to  pulp  with  his  foot, 
crying  out  in  ecstacy,  "Now  my  tulip  is  unique !" 

Some  still  more  ludicrous  stories  are  related  in  connection 
with  this  singular  mental  epidemic  ;  for  instance,  one  tale  runs 
that  whilst  the  mania  was  at  its  height,  a  sailor,  going  into  a 
merchant's  counting-house,  saw  a  bulb  which  he  mistook  for 
an  onion ;  he  popped  it  into  his  pocket,  and  took  it  off  to  aid 
him  in  relishing  a  red  herring  which  he  had  got  for  dinner. 
The  merchant,  missing  the  bulb,  which  was  that  of  a  high- 
priced  tulip,  suspected  the  sailor,  rushed  after  him,  and  caught 
him — ^just  finishing  his  meal  off  the  ill-flavoured  onion  !  The 
poor  sailor,  who  for  once  had  dined  like  a  prince,  expiated  his 
mistake  by  a  six  months'  imprisonment. 

Another  unfortunate  offender  was  a  gentleman  who  called 
on  a  florist,  and  being  shown  into  the  conservatory,  beguiled 
his  leisure  by  pealing  the  several  coats  off  a  bulb  that  he  found 
there,  and  by  then  cutting  the  remainder  into  shreds.  Ere 
long  in  comes  the  proprietor,  and  to  his  dismay  sees  the  frag- 
ments of  the  root,  which  proved  to  be  that  of  a  Van  Eyck, 
then  deemed  one  of  the  most  precious  of  all  tulip  varieties ! 
In  vain  the  unintentional  criminal  expostulated  ;  the  enraged 
owner  dragged  him  before  a  magistrate,  who  fined  him  4,000 
florins  for  his  freak,  and  sent  him  to  prison  until  he  procured 
securities  for  the  amount. 

To  such  an  extent  did  this  floral  gambling  spread  that,  it 
is  stated,  the  city  of  Haarlem  derived  ten  millions  sterling 
from  it  during  the  three  years  that  it  existed.  Of  course  the 
invariable  panic  came  at  last.  Government  was  appealed  to 
to  impede  its  course,  but  in  vain.  Down  came  the  aerial  for- 
tunes with  a  crash,  ruining  hundreds  of  innocent  people,  and 
shaking   the  national  credit   to  its  very  foundations.      This 

14 


2IO  Tulip. 

mania  has  been  attributed  to  Lipsius,  but  he  was  perfectly- 
guiltless  of  the  gambling  portion  of  it,  having  merely  proffered 
high  prices  for  the  best  flowers. 

These  disasters,  however,  have  not  eradicated  from  the 
minds  of  the  Dutch  their  love  for  the  tulip  ;  they  still  have 
d  great  partiality  for  it,  and,  some  few  years  ago,  Herr  Van- 
derninck  paid  as  much  as  £6/!\.o  for  a  single  bulb  of  a  new 
species.  The  English  are  not  free  from  the  tulipomania:  from 
^5  to  ;^io  is  no  uncommon  price  for  new  and  choice  varieties; 
in  1836,  at  a  sale  of  a  Mr.  Clarke's  tulips  at  Croydon,  ;^I00 
was  given  for  a  single  bulb,  the  "  Fanny  Kemble."  And  our 
tulip-fanciers  are  not  altogether  unsuspected  of  still  experi- 
mentalizing for  that  philosopher's  stone  of  gardening,  a  black 
tulip. 

The  furore  which  the  tulip  had  excited  in  Holland  caused 
it  to  become  a  popular  flower  in  other  countries ;  and  under 
careful  cultivation  it  multiplied  so  rapidly,  that,  in  1740,  the 
Baden  Durlach  Garden  at  Karlsruhe  contained  no  less  than 
2,159  kinds,  and  Count  Pappenheim's  gardens,  at  one  time, 
more  than  5,000  varieties  ! 

There  is  a  bulb  of  the  tulip  species  in  Assyria,  which  sleeps 
through  the  long  summer  drought,  then  wakens  again  to  life, 
and  prematurely  puts  forth  blossoms  when  the  early  rains  of 
October  invigorate  the  soil ;  but,  like  too  many  earthly  an- 
ticipations, the  flower  is  smitten  by  the  snow  or  blasted  by 
the  wintry  winds,  and  seems  to  perish ;  by-and-bye,  however, 
spring  resumes  its  sunny  reign,  and  these  blooms  once  more 
make  their  appearance,  with  all  that  vivid  beauty  of  colour, 
and  those  variety  of  forms,  which  are  so  glowingly  depicted 
on  the  canvas  or  described  in  the  pages  of  Eastern  poets. 


-^^^ 


#^ 


Sycamore. 

(CURIOSITY.) 

THIS  tree  is  frequently  mentioned  in  Scriptural  story,  and 
has,  indeed,  been  made  the  emblem  of  curiosity  from  an 
incident  related  in  the  New  Testament.  Amongst  the  crowd 
which  witnessed  the  triumphal  entry  of  Christ  into  Jerusalem 
was  a  publican  named  Zaccheus ;  and  he,  in  order  to  obtain  a 
better  view  of  the  Messiah,  climbed  up  into  a  sycamore  which 
stood  by  the  way. 

The  Scriptural  sycamore  is  a  large  tree  resembling  the  mul- 
berry in  its  leaf  and  the  fig  in  its  fruit ;  hence  it  is  presumed 
its  name  (from  two  Greek  words)  is  derived :  sycos^  a  fig-tree, 
and  moros,  a  mulberry-tree.  It  is  a  wide-spreading  tree — 
attains  a  considerable  height,  and  exhibits  a  trunk  of  large 
dimensions.  To  the  ancients  it  was  known  as  ''  the  wisest  of 
trees,"  because  it  buds  late  in  the  spring,  and  thus  avoids  the 
nipping  frost. 

In  former  ages  its  fruit  appears  to  have  constituted  an  im- 
portant item  of  the  diet  of  the  Egyptians  ;  and,  even  now-a- 
days,  travellers  inform  us  that  in  some  parts  of  Egypt  it  is  a 
common  article  of  food  with  the  people,  who  are  said  to  think 
themselves  well  off  when  they  have  a  piece  of  bread,  a  couple 
of  sycamore  figs,  and  a  pitcher  filled  with  water  from  the  Nile. 

It  is  good  evidence  in  behalf  of  the  value  which  these  trees 
bore  in  the  eyes  of  the  Egyptians  that  the  Psalmist,  when 
recording  the  plagues  wherewith  the  Lord  visited  that  people, 
says,  "  He  destroyed  their  sycamore-trees  with  frost." 

It  is  probable  that  these  trees  were  carefully  cultivated  in 
Canaan  from  a  very  remote  age.  The  prophet  Amos  is  de- 
scribed as  "  a  gatherer  of  sycamore  fruit," — that  is,  he  was  a 
dresser  of  sycamore-trees.  In  David's  reign,  it  is  stated  that 
an  officer  was  appointed  to  tend  "  the  olive-trees  and  the  syca- 
more-trees that  were  in  the  low  plains." 

14—2 


212  Sycamore. 


In  an  anonymous  but  meritorious  volume,  entitled  "Verses 
by  a  Poor  Man,"  there  is  a  pretty  poem  about  trees,  and  the 
emblem  of  curiosity  is  thus  introduced  : 

**  I  love  the  shady  sycamore, 

With  its  leaves  so  large  and  round, 
That  lie,  in  dull  November  hours, 
Thick  spotted  on  the  ground. " 

"  The  shady  sycamore,"  with  its  large  and  spreading  branches 
bedecked  with  their  always-green  foliage,  affords  a  pleasant 
retreat  from  the  sun,  so  that  it  is  commonly  planted,  by  the 
inhabitants  of  Egypt  and  Palestine,  along  the  roadside,  and 
in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  towns  and  villages,  where  it  may- 
often  be  seen  stretching  its  arms  over  the  houses,  screening 
the  fainting  inhabitants  from  the  glowing  heat  of  summer. 

The  wood  of  this  tree,  notwithstanding  its  coarse-grained 
and  spongy  appearance,  is  said  to  be  very  durable — an  opinion 
probably  derived  from  the  fact  that  the  coffins  in  which  the 
ancient  Egyptian  mummies  are  discovered  are  made  of  syca- 
more. Bruce  affirms  that  some  of  this  wood,  which  he  buried 
in  his  garden,  perished  in  four  years  :  it  has,  therefore,  been 
conjectured,  and  with  much  likelihood,  that  the  preservation 
of  the  mummy-chests  arises  either  from  a  particular  prepara- 
tion, or  else  from  the  dryness  of  the  climate  and  the  sandy 
soil  of  Egypt. 

This  tree  requires  much  attention  in  order  to  render  its  fruit 
edible,  and  this  fruit  whilst  growing  undergoes  divers  opera- 
tions, for,  if  left  to  itself,  it  would  become  exceedingly  bitter. 


Hollyhock. 

(AMBITION.) 

"The  faUen  hollyhock." 

Ebenezer  Elliott. 

THE  emblem  of  that  crime  by  which  Wolsey  tells  us  the 
angels  fell  is  the  tall  and  stately  Hollyhock.  A  few  years 
ago  it  was  often  designated  the  "  garden  mallow,"  and,  indeed, 
belongs  to  the  mallow  family.  From  the  fact  that  it  is  known 
in  France  as  Rose  d' outre  Mer^  or  "rose  from  beyond  the  sea," 
it  has  been  surmised  that  it  was  first  introduced  into  Europe 
from  Syria  by  the  Crusaders.  Sometimes  it  is  styled  the 
"  China  rose,"  because  large  numbers  of  roots  have  been  im- 
ported from  that  country,  with  whose  inhabitants  its  showy 
bloomage  makes  it  a  great  favourite. 

In  some  parts  of  France  this  symbol  of  ambition  is  used  to 
show  the  divisions  of  gardens  and  vineyards,  in  the  same  way 
that  privet  is  in  England.  Phillips,  in  his  "  Flora  Historica," 
strongly  recommends  that  it  be  thus  employed  here,  and  in- 
dulges in  the  prophecy  that  some  day  "  the  hollyhock  will  be 
planted  in  the  hedges  of  our  fields,  and  the  whole  appearance 
of  the  country  be  much  improved  by  relieving  the  uniformity 
of  fences.  Considerable  benefit,"  he  adds,  "would  at  the  same 
time  be  received  by  those  cottagers  who  have  the  prudence  to 
give  attention  to  the  hive,  since  the  late  season  at  which  the 
hollyhock  flowers  gives  the  bees  an  opportunity  to  make  a 
second  season  for  collecting  their  sweets." 

The  blossom  is  said  to  furnish  a  very  large  quantity  of  bee 
honey — a  fact  which  did  not  escape  Horace  Smith's  poet  eye : 

**  And  from  the  nectaries  of  hollyhocks 

The  humble  bee,  e'en  till  he  faints,  will  sip." 

These  proud  towering  flowers  supply  many  other  valuable 
requisites  besides  the  storing  of  hives,  but  their  economic  uses 


2  J  4  Hollyhock. 


cannot  be  discussed  here  :  what  is  not  apart  from  our  plan, 
however,  is  reference  to  their  showy  splendour — a  splendour 
that  is  doubly  prized  because  it  does  not  "  put  forth  such  blaze 
of  beauty  as  translates  to  dullest  hearts  its  dialect  of  pride," 
until  full-hearted  summer  has  carried  off  all  her  other  floral 
favourites.  Then  does  the  stately  stem  of  the  hollyhock  shoot 
up  above  the  fading  and  faded  blossoms,  and  bedecks  itself 
with  gallant  bouquets  of  roses — roses  of  every  tint  and  every 
hue,  from  the  palest  blush  to  the  deepest  crimson,  from  flaky 
white  to  the  deepest  orange;  and,  sometimes  bursting  forth 
purplish  black,  or  glossy  brown,  looks,  as  Jean  Ingelow  poeti- 
cally asserts, 

**  Queen  hollyhock,  with  butterflies  for  crowns." 

The  author  of  the  "  Poetry  of  Gardening  "  thinks  that  for 
ornamenting  lawns  there  is  nothing  to  surpass  the  old-fashioned 
hollyhock.  "  This,"  he  remarks,  "  is  the  only  landscape  flower 
we  possess — the  only  one,  that  is,  whose  forms  and  colours  tell 
in  the  distance  ;  and  so  picturesque  is  it,  that  perhaps  no  artist 
ever  attempted  to  draw  a  garden  without  introducing  it,  whether 
it  was  really  there  or  not.  By  far  the  finest  effect,"  adds  this 
writer,  "that  combined  art  and  nature  ever  produced  in  garden- 
ing, were  those  fine  masses  of  many-coloured  hollyhocks  clus- 
tered round  a  weather-tinted  vase,  such  as  Sir  Joshua  delighted 
to  place  in  the  wings  of  his  pictures.  And  what  more  magnifi- 
cent than  a  long  avenue  of  these  floral  giants,  backed  by  a  dark 
thick  hedge  of  old-fashioned  yew  }  Such  an  avenue,"  remarks 
the  same  author,  "  was  once  to  be  seen  in  the  fulness  of  its 
autumn  splendour  in  a  garden  of  a  deep  lawyer,  at  Granton, 
near  Edinburgh.  It  was,"  he  concludes,  "  the  most  gorgeous 
mass  of  colouring  we  ever  beheld  !  " 

This  essayist,  who  manifests  a  great  partiality  for  the  pomp- 
ous flower,  elsewhere  depicts  "  a  vase  of  large  dimensions  and 
bolder  sculpture,  backed  by  the  heads  of  a  mass  of  crimson, 
rose,  and  straw-coloured  hollyhocks  that  spring  up  from  the 
bank  below,"  as  a  triumph  of  poetical  gardening. 


Lotus. 

(ELOQUENCE.) 

'^The  lotus-flower,  whose  leaves  I  now 
Kiss  silently, 
Far  more  than  words  can  tell  thee,  how 
I  worship  thee  ! " 


Moore. 


OF  the  various  flowers  dedicated  to  religious  purposes  by 
the  nations  of  antiquity,  none  occupy  a  more  promi- 
nent position  than  the  Lotus,  a  species  of  water-hly.  Its 
sacred  blossom  was  deemed  emblematical  of  mystery  by  the 
symbol  worshippers  of  China,  India,  and  Egypt,  and,  as  a 
natural  consequence,  was  frequently  used  for  architectural 
adornment  by  their  priests,  who  always  found  it  advantageous 
to  enshroud  the  performance  of  their  religious  rites  under  an 
impenetrable  veil  of  symbolism  and  secrecy.  The  Egyptians 
moreover  consecrated  the  flower  of  the  lotus  to  the  sun,  their 
God  of  Eloquence,  and  represented  the  dawn  of  day  by  a 
youth  seated  upon  its  blossom.  Herodotus  and  Theophrastus 
bear  testimony  to  the  high  antiquity  of  the  Egyptian  reverence 
for  this  lily,  and  M.  Savary  assures  us  that,  even  at  the  present 
day,  the  degenerate  races  dwelling  upon  the  banks  of  the  Nile 
are  still  animated  by  the  same  feelings  of  worship  and  venera- 
tion towards  it.  It  is  also  revered  at  the  present  time  in  Hin- 
dostan,  Thibet,  and  Nepaul,  where  they  believe  that  in  its 
sacred  bosom  Brahma  was  born. 

The  Indian  Lotus  is  famous  for  its  roseate  colour,  for  its 
powerful  fragrance,  and  because  it  is  in  its  blossom,  which  is 
somewhat  larger  than  the  English  water-lily,  that  the  Hin- 
doos feign  their  Cupid  Manmadin,  whom  the\'  picture  pinioned 
with  flowers,  was  first  seen  floating  down  the  sacred  Ganges. 


210  Lotus. 

Poor  L.  E.  L.  founded   one  of  her  passionate  lyrics  on  this 
fable.     She  represented  the  youthful  deity  as 

"Seated  on  a  lotus-flower, 
Gathered  in  a  summer  hour ; 
*  *  *  *^  * 

Grasping  in  his  infant  hand 
Arrows  in  their  silken  band, 
Each  made  of  a  signal  flower. 
Emblem  of  its  varied  power." 

This  lily  is  thus  introduced  in  the  "  Sacontala,"  in  reference 
to  the  art  of  palmistry,  or  chirognomy,  as  practised  by  the 
Brahmin  priesthood.  "  What !  "  exclaims  a  predictive  Brah- 
min, "the  very  palm  of  his  hand  bears  the  mark  of  empire, 
and  while  he  thus  eagerly  extends  it,  shows  its  lines  of  exqui- 
site network,  and  grows  like  a  lotus  expanded  at  early  dawn, 
when  the  ruddy  splendour  of  its  petals  hides  all  other  tints  in 
obscurity." 

The  use  of  the  lotus'  elegant  form  in  decorative  architec- 
ture was  spoken  of  above,  and  one  of  our  authorities  thus 
confirms  the  fact :  '*  This  is  the  sublime,  the  hallowed  symbol 
that  eternally  occurs  in  Oriental  mythology ;  and,  in  truth, 
not  without  substantial  reason,  for  it  is  itself  a  lovely  prodigy : 
it  contains  a  treasure  of  physical  instruction,  and  affords  to  the 
enraptured  botanist  exhaustless  matter  of  amusement  and 
contemplation.  No  wonder,  then,  that  the  philosophizing  sons 
of  Mizraim  adorned  their  majestic  structures  with  the  spread- 
ing tendrils  of  this  vegetable,  and  made  the  ample-extending 
vase  that  crowns  its  lofty  stem  the  capital  of  the  most  beau- 
tiful columns." 

The  sacred  images  of  the  Indians,  Japanese,  and  Tartars  are 
almost  invariably  represented  as  seated  upon  the  leaves  of  the 
lotus,  as  is  also  the  Chinese  deity,  Puzza. 

The  Egyptian  divinity  Osiris  is  likewise  portrayed  with  his 
head  decorated  with  this  sacred  flower ;  indeed,  the  same 
symbol  is  found  recurring  in  every  part  of  the  Northern  hemi- 
sphere to  which  symbolic  religion  has  penetrated. 

The  courtiers  of  the  Emperor  Adrian  endeavoured  to  per- 
suade him  that  his  deceased  favourite  Antinous  had  been 
metamorphosed  into  a  lotus  ;  but  the  Roman  sovereign,  who 
erected  a  temple  to  his  youthful  friend's  memory,  wished  it  to 


Lotus.  217 

be  believed  that  he  had  been  changed  into  a  constellation. 
Naturalists  have  differed  greatly  respecting  the  nature  of  the 
ancient  Egyptian  lotus,  some  even  asserting  that  it  was  a 
thorny  shrub,  and  others  saying  that  it  was  only  a  man's  name; 
but  the  evidence  of  several  writers  of  antiquity  is  so  precise, 
that  there  cannot  be  the  slightest  doubt  of  its  lily  origin.  It 
is  described  by  Herodotus  as  "  the  water-lily,  that  grows  in  the 
inundated  lands  of  Egypt.  The  seed  of  this  flower,  which 
resembles  that  of  the  poppy,  they  bake  and  make  into  a  kind 
of  bread.  They  also  use  the  root  of  this  plant,  which  is  round, 
of  an  agreeable  flavour,  and  about  the  size  of  an  apple." 
Theophrastus  describes  it  in  similar  terms  in  his  "  History  of 
Plants,"  as  also  does  Pliny.  It  was  formerly  styled  the  "  Lily 
of  the  Nile,"  from  its  growing  in  abundance  on  the  banks  and 
about  the  marshes  which  formed  the  delta  of  that  river. 

It  is  the  Nymphcea  lotus  of  Linnaeus  ;  is  a  stately  and  ma- 
jestic plant,  rising  above  the  surface  of  the  water  at  sunrise ; 
folding  its  petals  and  sinking  beneath  it  at  sunset.  It  has  a 
calyx  like  that  of  a  large  tulip,  and  difi"uses  an  odour  similar 
to  that  of  the  lily. 

A  writer  of  an  erudite  article  on  "  Floral  Symbols,"  which 
appeared  in  "  Eliza  Cook's  Journal,"  and  to  which  we  are  in- 
debted for  several  valuable  allusions,  suggested  that  '*  the 
wonderful  physical  peculiarities  in  the  growth  of  this  plant 
rendered  it  an  appropriate  symbol  of  a  worship  of  the  most 
degrading  and  immoral  character." 

Alas !  that  man  should  so  far  divert  these  lovely  "  floral 
apostles  "  from  their  intended  typifying  purposes  of  love  and 
innocence,  and  thus  cause  them  to 

**  Weep  without  woe,  and  blush  without  a  crime  ! " 

In  Japan,  however,  the  lotus  is  typical  of  purity,  and  is,  with 
the  flower  of  the  motherwort,  borne  aloft  in  vases  at  funeral 
processions. 

Moore,  in  a  note  to  "  Lalla  Rookh,"  respecting  little  looking- 
glasses  which  certain  Asiatic  maidens  wear  upon  their  thumbs, 
remarks  that  the  lotus  is  the  emblem  of  beauty  ;  but  the  lines 
which  he  adduces  in  confirmation  of  this  idea  serve  better  to 
illustrate  the  symbolism  of  silent  eloquence.  Two  lovers  are 
supposed  to  be  holding  mute  intercourse  before  their  parents  : 


2i8  Lotus. 

"He  with  salute  of  deference  due, 
A  lotus  to  his  forehead  prest ; 
She  raised  her  mirror  to  his  view, 
Then  turned  it  inward  to  her  breast." 

Moore  also  alludes  to  the  poetical  legends  of  the  Hindoo 
youthful  God  of  Love  being  first  seen  "  seated  on  a  lotus- 
flower."     He  tells  us  of  Selim,  that 

"He  little  knew  how  well  the  boy 

Can  float  upon  a  river's  streams, 
Lighting  them  with  his  smile  of  joy  ; 

As  bards  have  seen  him  in  their  dreams 
Down  the  blue  Ganges,  laughing,  glide 

Upon  a  rosy  lotus  wreath, 
Catching  new  lustre  from  the  tide 

That  with  his  image  shone  beneath." 

The  floral  home  of  this  flower,  consecrated  in  India  to  love, 
is  thus  spoken  of  by  one  well  acquainted  with  the  Ganges  and 
its  banks  :  "  The  rich  and  luxuriant  clusters  of  the  lotus  float  in 
quick  succession  upon  the  silvery  current.  Nor  is  it  the  sacred 
lotus  alone  which  embellishes  the  wavelets  of  the  Ganges  : 
large  white,  yellow,  and  scarlet  flowers  pay  an  equal  tribute ; 
and  the  prows  of  the  numerous  native  vessels  navigating  the 
stream  are  garlanded  by  long  wreaths  of  the  most  brilliant 
daughters  of  the  parterre.  India  may  be  called  a  Paradise  of 
flowers  :  the  most  beautiful  lilies  grow  spontaneously  upon 
the  sandy  shores  of  the  rivers,  and  from  every  projecting  cliff 
some  shrub  dips  its  flowers  in  the  wave  below." 

Jayadeva  alludes  to  the  blue  lotus  when  he  sings,  "Whose 
wanton  eyes  resemble  blue  water-lilies  agitated  by  the  breeze;" 
and  Moore  follows  up  the  simile  thus : 

**  His  breath  is  the  soul  of  flowers  like  these, 
And  his  floating  eyes — oh !  they  resemble 
Blue  water-lilies,  when  the  breeze 

Is  making  the  stream  around  them  tremble." 

Poor  Edgar  Poe  did  not  omit  to  notice  Love's  floral  cradle, 
and  in  his  most  musical,  most  melancholy  rhyme,  sang  of 

"The  nelumbo-bud  that  floats  for  ever 
"With  Indian  Cupid  down  the  holy  river." 

And,  in  his  beautiful  Paradise,  "  Al  Aaraaf,"  places  the 


Lotus.  219 

"Valisnerian  lotus,  thither  flown 
From  struggling  with  the  waters  of  the  Rhone  ; " 

remarking  in  a  foot-note,  that  "there  is  found  in  the  Rhone  a 
Hiy  of  the  VaHsnerian  kind.  Its  stem  will  stretch  to  the  length 
of  three  or  four  feet,  thus  preserving  its  head  above  water  in 
the  swellings  of  the  river  ;  and  further,  it  is  said  to  sink  quite 
below  the  surface  during  the  night." 

An   opportunity  of  embalming   this    wonderful   record  of 
Nature  in  his  flowing  verse  is  thus  taken  by  Moore : 

*'  Those  virgin  lilies,  all  the  night 
Bathing  their  beauties  in  the  lake. 
That  they  may  rise  more  fresh  and  bright 
When  their  beloved  sun's  awake/' 


Juniper. 

(PROTECTION.) 

THIS  plant  became  the  emblem  oi protection,  from  the  cir- 
cumstance of  the  prophet  Elijah  having  been  sheltered 
from  the  persecutions  of  King  Ahab  by  a  juniper  of  the 
mountains.  Says  the  Psalmist,  "  Thou  hast  been  a  shelter  for 
me,  and  a  strong  tower  from  the  enemy." 

The  Italian  name  for  the  juniper  is  Gmebro,  which  Ariosto, 
by  the  licence  usually  permitted  to  poets,  assumed  to  be  a  con- 
vertible term  with  Ginevra,  the  name  of  his  ladye-love ;  and 
accordingly,  in  his  Seventh  Sonnet,  he  found  occasion  to  im- 
mortalize her  memory  under  a  floral  fancy,  as  did  his  great 
compatriot  Petrarch,  when  coupling  the  name  of  his  adored 
Laura  with  the  laurel  —  that  "Petrarch  pale,"  whom  Mrs. 
Browning  has  so  gloriously  sculpt  in  that  magnificent  Pan- 
theon, "  The  Vision  of  Poets,"  as  he 

"  Who  from  his  brain-Ht  heart  hath  thrown 
A  thousand  thoughts  beneath  the  sun, 
Each  perfumed  with  the  name  of  ONE. 

"Tasso,  bard  and  lover, 
Whose  visions  were  too  thin  to  cover 
The  face  of  a  false  woman  over, " 

determined  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  his  illustrious  country- 
man, has  also  left  us  two  sonnets  adapted  to  a  similar  purpose. 
Noble  emblem  this  with  which  to  cheer  the  heart  of  our  best 
beloved !  this  symbol  of  the  protection  which  they  may  find 
in  the  security  of  our  love — that  asylum  from  the  cruel  wrongs 
of  a  careless  world.  How  beautifully  has  Moore,  in  one  of  his 
melodies,  expressed  this  sentiment !  a  sentiment  which  em- 
bodies the  wild,  passionate,  unselfish  ardour  of  love — of  love 
pure  and  uncontaminated  with  the  taint  of  earth  : 

**  Come,  rest  in  my  bosom,  my  own  stricken  deer : 
Though  the  herd  have  fled  from  thee,  thy  home  is  still  here ; 
Here  still  is  the  smile  that  no  cloud  can  o'ercast, 
And  a  heart  and  a  hand  all  thy  own  to  the  last. 


JtJNIPER.  221 

"  Oh !  what  was  love  made  for,  if  't  is  not  the  same 
Through  joy  and  through  torment,  through  glory  and  shame? 
I  know  not,  I  ask  not  if  guilt 's  in  that  heart, 
I  but  know  that  I  love  thee,  whatever  thou  art. 

**  Thou  hast  called  me  thy  angel  in  moments  of  bliss, 
And  thy  angel  I  '11  be  'mid  the  horrors  of  this  ; 
Through  the  furnace  unshrinking  thy  steps  to  pursue, 
And  shield  thee  and  save  thee — or  perish  there  too  !" 

Such  is  the  love  which  woman  gives  to  man — Heaven  grant  it 
be  rewarded  ! 

In  the  '*  Decameron  "  of  Boccaccio,  there  is  a  passage  in- 
tended to  illustrate  the  particularly  magnificent  manner  in 
which  his  heroes  and  heroines  passed  their  voluntary  exile  in 
a  country  retreat ;  and  not  the  least  sign  of  their  grandeur  was 
the  fact  of  their  having  the  room  where  they  met  strewed  with 
flowers  of  the  juniper  ;  for,  in  those  "  good  old  days,"  as  they 
are  so  absurdly  styled,  even  when  Elizabeth  was  queen,  carpets 
were  a  luxury  unknown  in  the  mansions  of  the  richest  in  the 
land,  and  folks  had  no  better  covering  for  their  floors  than 
dried  leaves  and  rushes. 

Brooks,  in  his  travels  in  Norway  and  Sweden,  informs  us 
that  the  custom  of  strewing  the  floors  with  juniper  in  lieu  of 
carpets  is  still  general  in  those  countries.  In  one  part  of  his 
travels  in  Norway,  he  remarks,  "On  entering  my  little  chamber, 
I  was  agreeably  surprised  to  find  everything  exceedingly  neat 
and  clean.  The  floor  was  strewed,  as  is  the  custom,  with  tops 
of  the  juniper,  which  diflused  a  delightful  fragrance  around,  in 
the  most  agreeable  manner  inviting  sleep." 

Virgil,  as  rendered  by  Dryden,  represents  the  shelter  of  the 
juniper  as  anything  but  desirable  : 

' '  Now  let  us  rise,  for  hoarseness  oft  invades 
The  singer's  voice  who  sings  beneath  the  shades  : 
From  juniper  unwholesome  dews  distil." 

This  ominous  character  of  its  shade  is  further  corroborated  by 
old  Fairfax,  in  his  translation  of  Tasso's  "  Jerusalem  Delivered," 
— although,  singular  to  relate,  the  original  ofiers  nothing  to 
warrant  the  aspersion : 

"Sweet  juniper,  whose  shadow  hurted  sore." 


Camellia  Japonica. 

(SUPREME    LOVELINESS.) 

EVERYBODY  will  willingly  acknowledge  the  Camellia, 
or  Rose  of  Japan,  to  be  one  of  the  most  lovely  floral 
beauties  ever  introduced  into  this  country;  but,  alas!  despite 
its  supreme  loveliness,  this  flower,  unlike  its  European  rival 
queen,  the  rose,  has  no  fragrance ! 

This  beautiful  blossom,  deemed  in  the  poetical  Blumen- 
spracke,  or  language  of  flowers  of  our  Teutonic  cousins,  as 
expressing  Thou  art  tny  heart's  sovereign,  was  first  introduced 
into  Europe  in  1639,  and  derives  its  name  from  a  Jesuit  monk, 
Joseph  Kamel,  or,  as  it  is  generally  Latinized  into,  Camellus. 
It  has  been  justly  observed,  that  had  this  superb  bloom  been 
Greek,  Italian,  or  English,  there  would  have  been  a  great  deal 
said  of  it  by  our  poets  ;  and  doubtless  it  does  figure  largely  in 
the  poetry  of  Japan.  Unfortunately  for  our  quotations,  but 
perhaps  fortunately  for  their  own  comfort,  the  Japanese  have 
hitherto  preserved  most  of  their  good  things  to  themselves,  and 
so,  for  the  present,  can  live  unscathed  by  the  fire  of  European 
criticism. 

Did  Jean  Ingelow  have  these  magnificent  floral  pets  in  her 
poet  mind  when  she  sang : 

**  These  are  buds  that  fold  within  them, 
Closed  and  covered  from  our  sight, 
Many  a  richly-tinted  petal, 

Never  looked  on  by  the  light "? 

And  did  this  same  gifted  poetess  mean  that  it  was  the  richly- 
tinted  petals  of  these  stars  of  evening,  which  uttered  their 
"  songs  without  words "  to  some  admired  human  flower,  at 
those  intoxicating  hours  when  a  sound  of  revelry  was  faintly 
heard  floating  out  of  the  heavily-scented  ball-room  into  the 
still  more  fragrant  silence  of  the  conservatory? — 


Camellia  Japonic  a.  223 


"  And  that  they  whose  lips  do  utter 
Language  such  as  bards  have  sung, 
Though  their  speech  shall  be  to  many 
As  an  unknown  tongue." 

Let  not,  O  fair  maiden !  the  presentation  of  one  of  these 
bright  blossoms  be  to  you  incomprehensible;  do  not  let  the 
donor  of  such  a  complimentary  gift  deem  that  he  is  addressing 
you  in  an  unknown  tongue.  Every  one,  indeed,  should  be  able 
to  interpret  the  symbolism  of  these  lovely  flowers,  which,  as 
Mrs.  Sigourney  says, 

**  Put  forth  such  blaze  of  beauty  as  translates 
To  dullest  hearts  their  dialect  of  love." 


P  O  L  Y  ANT  H  US. 

(CONFIDENCE.) 

THE  Polyanthus  is  twin-sister  to  the  Auricula,  and  both 
of  them  belong  to  the  primrose  clan.  The  former  is 
the  hardier,  but  less  admired,  of  the  twain,  and  will  survive 
the  coldest  and  wettest  seasons.  Like  all  the  plants  of  its 
genus,  it  is  an  early  blower,  being  one  of  the  first  flowers  that 
welcome  in  the  spring. 

"The  polyanthus  of  unnumbered  dyes,"  as  Thomson  calls 
it  in  his  "  Seasons,"  is  asserted  to  be  merely  a  variety  of  the 
field-primrose,  produced  by  the  skill  of  the  gardener.  It  was 
known,  however,  to  the  ancients  by  the  name  of  "  Paralisos," 
and  was  believed  to  have  sprung  from  the  ashes  of  a  youth  of 
that  name,  who  pined  to  death  for  the  loss  of  Melicerta,  who, 
to  escape  the  mad  fury  of  Anthamas,  King  of  Thebes,  plunged 
into  the  sea  and  was  drowned. 

The  Auricula,  significant  of  a  whisper,  was  formerly  known 
to  botanists  as  Auricula  tirsi,  or  "bear's  ear,"  from  the  shape 
of  its  leaves  :  it  was  also  formerly  spoken  of  as  "mountain  cow- 
slip." Perhaps  there  is  no  flower  that  has  received  more  tender 
care  from  cultivators  than  the  auricula  :  they  have  waited  upon 
and  watched  over  it  like  a  mother  over  her  infant ;  and  won- 
derful are  the  effects  education  has  produced  upon  it.  In  its 
original  state  it  is  either  yellow  or  white,  and  the  skill  of  the 
florist  has  brought  it  to  its  present  rich  hues  of  brown  or 
purple,  sometimes  edged  with  green  or  centred  with  gold. 
Thomson  talks  of 

**  Auriculas,  enrich'd 
With  shining  meal  o'er  all  their  velvet  leaves," 

The  author  of  "  Flora  Domestica  "  states  that  this  plant  has 


Polyanthus. 


225 


a  singular  propensity  for  meat,  and  that  a  good  part  of  its 
bloom  is  actually  owing,  like  an  alderman's,  to  this  consumption 
of  flesh.  Juicy  pieces  of  meat  are  placed  about  the  root,  so 
that  it  may  in  some  measure  be  said  to  live  on  blood.  This 
undoubtedly  lessens  its  charms  in  some  eyes — its  florid  aspect 
somehow  becomes  unnatural ;  and  the  "  shining  meal,"  with 
which  Thomson  says  it  is  "enriched,"  being  no  longer  asso- 
ciated with  vegetation,  makes  it  look  like  a  baker  covered 
with  flour,  and  just  come  out  from  a  dinner  in  his  hot  oven. 
Keats  evidently  describes  either  the  polyanthus  or  auricula  in 
this  passage  of  ''  Endymion  : " 

**  Oft  have  I  brought  thee  flowers,  on  their  stalks  set 
Like  vestal  primroses,  but  dark  velvet 
Edges  them  round,  and  they  have  golden  pits." 


H  O  LL  Y. 

(FORESIGHT.) 
"  I,  in  this  wisdom  of  the  holly- tree  can  emblems  see." 

SOUTHEY. 

IF  ever  any  production  of  nature  testified  to  the  superin- 
tending care  of  a  Supreme  Being,  it  is  the  Holly ;  that 
evergreen  bush  which  "  outdares  cold  winter's  ire,"  and  with 
its  shining  green  foliage  and  brilliant  red  berries,  forms  such 
a  cheerful  contrast  with  the  general  lifelessness  of  the  British 
landscape  in  winter.  In  frost,  in  snow,  in  sun  or  rain,  its  glossy 
leaves  are  ever  seen  beaming  brightly,  inspiriting  dreary  hearts 
to  renewed  hopes  and  exertions. 

This  tree,  apart  from  its  slow  growth,  is  admirable  for  the 
formation  of  hedges.  As  soon  as  it  attains  any  size,  it  con- 
stitutes an  impenetrable  fence  against  all  kinds  of  intruders, 
animal  or  human.  Its  leaves  are  a  favourite  food  with  some 
creatures,  but  the  sharp  prickles  with  which  those  on  the  lower 
branches  are  provided  repel  all  depredators  :  it  is  strange  to 
observe  that  the  leaves  upon  the  upper  portion  of  the  tree, 
and  which  are  out  of  the  reach  of  assailants,  dispense  with 
their  thorns,  and,  as  if  conscious  of  their  security,  grow  per- 
fectly smooth.  This  remarkable  adaptation  of  nature  to  the 
law  of  self-preservation  is  noticed  by  Southey,  in  his  address 
to  the  holly-tree,  a  simple  poem  that  will  be  read  and  admired 
long  after  all  his  ponderous  epics  have  been  consigned  to  obli- 
vion : 

"  O  reader  !  hast  thou  ever  stood  to  see 

The  holly-tree 
The  eye  that  contemplates  it  well  perceives 

Its  glossy  leaves 
Ordered  by  an  Intelligence  so  wise, 
As  might  confound  tJie  atheist's  sophistries. 


^^ 


'"V,rfk. 


^  >•    K 


\ 


Holly.  227 

**  Below  a  circling  fence  its  leaves  are  seen 

Wrinkled  and  keen ; 
No  grazing  cattle  through  their  prickly  round 

Can  reach  to  wound  ; 
But  as  they  grow  where  nothing  is  to  fear, 
Smooth  and  unarmed  the  pointless  leaves  appear. 

**  I  love  to  view  these  things  with  curious  eyes, 

And  moralize ; 
And  in  this  wisdom  of  the  holly-tree 

Can  emblems  see 
Wherewith  perchance  to  make  a  pleasant  rhyme, 
One  which  may  profit  in  the  after-time. 

T^  "ir  -fr  "it  -)v  -It  TT 

**  And  as  when  all  the  Summer  trees  are  seen 

So  bright  and  green. 
The  holly-leaves  their  fadeless  hues  display 

Less  bright  than  they  ; 
But  when  the  bare  and  wintry  woods  we  see, 
What  then  so  cheerful  as  the  holly-tree  ? 

**  So  serious  should  my  youth  appear  among 

The  thoughtless  throng; 
So  would  I  seem  among  the  young  and  gay 

More  grave  than  they ; 
That  in  my  age  as  cheerful  I  might  be 
As  the  green  winter  of  the  holly-ti^ee." 

Of  the  various  evergreens  which  the  Enghsh  use  at  Christ- 
mas for  decorating  their  houses  and  churches,  none  is  such  a 
favourite,  and  is  deemed  so  throughly  emblematic  of  that  fes- 
tive season,  as  the  much-admired  holly.  Like  all  widely-spread 
customs,  the  practice  of  decking  places  with  evergreens  appears 
to  be  a  relic  of  considerable  antiquity,  and  one  that  evidently 
symbolized  far  more  than  it  does  now-a-days.  As  with  so 
many  of  our  emblematic  plants,  the  races  of  antiquity  ascribed 
several  wonderful  properties  to  the  holly-tree:  the  disciples  of 
Zoroaster,  the  fire -worshippers,  believed  that  the  sun  never 
shadowed  it ;  and  the  followers  of  that  philosopher  still  re- 
maining in  Persia  and  India,  are  said  to  throw  water  impreg- 
nated with  holly-bark  in  the  face  of  a  new-born  child. 

During  the  great  festival  of  the  Saturnalia,  which  occurred 
about  the  period  of  the  present  Christmas,  it  was  customary 
among  the  Romans  to  send  holly-boughs  to  their  friends,  as 
typical  of  their  good  wishes.  Pliny  states  that  branches  of 
this  tree  defend  houses  from  lightning,  and  men  from  witch- 
craft.    The  early  Roman  Christians,  despite  the  interdiction 

15 — 3 


2  28  Holly.  , 

of  their  priests,  appear  to  have  used  the  holly  in  ornamenting 
their  churches  at  Christmas,  and  undoubtedly  this  custom, 
which  they  derived  from  heathen  nations,  they  have  trans- 
mitted to  their  descendants.  The  earliest  English  record  of  this 
pleasant  practice  is  supposed  to  be  found  in  a  carol  in  praise 
of  holly,  written  in  the  time  of  Henry  VI.,  and  beginning  with 
this  stanza : 

"  Nay,  ivy,  nay,  it  shall  not  be,  I  wys; 
Let  holly  hafe  the  mastry,  as  the  maner  is. 
Holly  stand  in  the  halle,  fayre  to  behold ; 
Ivy  stand  without  the  dore;  she  is  full  sore  a-cold." 

In  some  of  the  southern  portions  of  the  United  States  the 
leaves  of  the  holly-bush  are  used  as  a  substitute  for  tea.  The 
American  Indians  are  said  to  regard  them  as  a  panacea  ;  and 
at  certain  seasons  of  the  year  they  hasten  in  large  numbers  to 
the  sea-coast,  where  the  bush  flourishes  best.  Making  a  fire 
on  the  ground,  and  suspending  a  cauldron  of  water  above  it, 
they  throw  a  great  quantity  of  these  leaves  into  the  vessel, 
a,id  then,  sitting  in  a  circle  round  the  fire,  they  begin  to  imbibe 
large  draughts  of  the  liquid,  which  is  served  out  in  a  wooden 
bowl  :  very  shortly  this  produces  vomiting.  For  two  or  three 
days  the  process  is  repeated,  and  then,  every  one  carrying  a 
bundle  of  the  leaves  away  with  him,  they  return  home. 

**This  plant,"  says  Miller,  writing  some  years  ago,  "is  sup- 
posed to  be  the  same  as  that  which  grows  in  Paraguay,  where 
the  Jesuits  make  a  great  revenue  of  the  leaves,  an  account  of 
which  is  given  by  M.  Frezier." 

Evelyn  in  his  garden  at  Sayes  Court  had  a  magnificent 
hedge  of  holly,  which  he  glowingly  described  as  "  at  any  time 
of  the  year  glittering  with  its  armed  and  varnished  leaves ; 
the  taller  standards,  at  orderly  distances,  blushing  with  their 
natural  coral.  It  mocks,"  he  added,  "  the  rude  assaults  of  the 
weather,  beasts,  or  hedge-breaker ;"  but,  alas  for  human  fore- 
sight ! — the  impregnable  hedge  could  not  resist  a  sovereign's 
folly.  The  Czar,  Peter  the  Great,  during  his  stay  in  England, 
having  taken  up  his  residence  at  Mr.  Evelyn's  house  in  order 
to  be  near  the  Deptford  dockyard,  is  recorded  to  have  en- 
joyed the  puerile  amusement  of  being  wheeled  in  a  barrow 
through  the  dense  holly  hedges  which  had  afi"orded  their  owner 
so  much  innocent  pride.     Under  such  onslaughts  the  gardens 


Holly.  229 

as  may  be  readily  imagined,  and  as  poor  Evelyn  pathetically 
observes,  were  ruined. 

It  is  stated  that  in  some  parts  of  the  country  there  is  a  sin- 
gular custom  of  beating  the  feet,  when  afflicted  with  chilblains, 
with  a  branch  of  holly,  from  some  lingering  superstitious  idea 
of  its  curative  powers.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  upper  or 
thornless  portion  of  the  tree  is  used,  otherwise,  as  our  au- 
thority naively  observes,  the  castigation  is  little  likely  to  pro- 
duce any  other  effect  than  that  of  irritating  a  part  already  too 
much  inflamed  and  susceptible. 

Apart  from  its  beauty,  and  the  pleasurable  feelings  it  en- 
genders by  decking  the  wintry  prospect  with  its  lively-hued 
foliage  and  brilliant  scarlet  berries,  the  holly  has  other  asso- 
ciations which  render  it,  in  England  at  least,  the  most  beloved 
of  all  plants.  Neither  the  luxuriant  rose  or  the  modest  violet 
produces  such  tender  feelings  in  the  Briton's  heart.  How 
many  happy  memories^,  how  many  gentle  feelings,  will  the 
sight  of  a  sprig  of  this  beloved  plant  excite  !  What  an  ever- 
susceptible  chord  of  human  sympathy  will  a  vision  of  this 
bright  holly  cause  to  vibrate,  even  in  hearts  long  silent  to  such 
music !  Long,  long  may  Christmas,  crowned  with  this  em- 
blem of  its  vitality,  knit  in  bonds  of  loving  brotherhood  man 
to  fellow-man !  and  long  let  us  behold,  with  Gay, 

**  Christmas,  the  joyous  period  of  the  year  ! 
Now  with  bright  holly  all  the  temples  strow, 
With  laurel  green  and  sacred  mistletoe." 

In  "Poor  Robin's  Almanack"  for  1695,  the  custom  of  de- 
corating dwellings  with  evergreens  is  quaintly  introduced : 

"  With  holly  and  ivy,  "With  bays  and  rosemary, 

So  green  and  so  gay,  And  laurel  complete  ; 

We  deck  up  our  houses  And  every  one  now 

As  fresh  as  the  day  ;  Is  a  king  in  conceit. " 

But  there  is  an  English  poet  to  whom  we  may  always  turn 
for  a  Christmas  wreath,  a  poet  who  is  never  a-weary  of  sing- 
ing the  joys — real  and  ideal — of  that  transitory  epoch  in  the 
tedious  years — those  bright  oases,  in  what  to  so  many  are 
deserts  of  time,  when  it  does  indeed  appear  as  if  "peace  and 
goodwill  towards  all  men"  is  the  general  feeling  in  Christian 
nations.  And  that  poet  is — need  it  be  said  ? — Eliza  Cook. 
Hark  how  she  carols  of  the  Christmas  holly : 


230  Holly. 

"The  holly  !  the  holly  !  oh,  twine  it  with  the  bay — 

Come,  give  the  holly  a  song  ; 
For  it  helps  to  drive  stern  Winter  away, 

With  his  garments  so  sombre  and  long. 
It  peeps  through  the  trees  Math  its  berries  of  red, 

And  its  leaves  of  burnish'd  green. 
When  the  flowers  and  fruits  have  long  been  dead, 

Aiid  not  even  the  daisy  is  seen. 
Then  sing  to  the  holly,  the  Christmas  holly, 

That  hangs  over  peasant  and  king  ; 
While  we  laugh  and  carouse  'neath  its  glittering  boughs, 

To  the  Christmas  holly  we  '11  sing. 

**The  gale  may  whistle,  and  frost  may  come 

To  fetter  the  gurgling  rill ; 
The  woods  may  be  bare  and  the  warblers  dumb — 

But  the  holly  is  beautiful  still. 
In  the  revel  and  light  of  princely  halls 

The  bright  holly-branch  is  found  ; 
And  its  shadow  falls  on  the  lowliest — falls 

While  the  brimming  horn  goes  round. 
Then  drink  to  the  holly,  &c. 

"The  ivy  lives  long,  but  its  home  must  be 

Where  graves  and  ruins  are  spread  ; 
There  's  beauty  about  the  cypress-tree. 

But  it  flourishes  near  the  dead  ; 
The  laurel  the  warrior's  brow  may  wreathe. 

But  it  tells  of  tears  and  blood. 
I  sing  the  holly — and  who  can  breathe 

Aught  of  that  that  is  not  good  ? 
Then  sing  to  the  holly,  <li:c." 


-i^ 


Foxglove. 

(INSINCERITY.) 

THE  Foxglove  typifies  insincerity  because  of  the  invidious 
poison  which  lurks  within  its  bright  blossom.  In  France 
and  Germany,  and  in  some  parts  of  England,  it  is  known  as 
"  Finger-flower,"  because  of  the  resemblance  it  bears  to  the 
finger  of  a  glove,  a  resemblance  which  the  poets  have  not  failed 
to  take  advantage  of.  William  Brown  describes  Pan  as  seeking 
gloves  for  his  mistress  : 

**To  keep  her  slender  fingers  from  the  sunne, 
Pan  through  the  pastures  oftentimes  hath  runne 
To  pluck  the  speckled  foxgloves  from  their  stem, 
And  on  those  fingers  neatly  placed  them." 

It  was  the  age  of  conceits  and  quaint  fancies  when  these 
gallant  gentlemen  wrote,  and  so  we  pardon  their  artificial 
fantasies  as  a  humour  of  the  age.  Cowley,  like  his  compa- 
triot, found  a  finger  for  this  bonny  bloom : 

**  The  foxglove  on  fair  Flora's  hand  is  worn, 
Lest  while  she  gathers  flowers  she  meet  a  thorn." 

The  tall  purple  foxglove  is  one  of  the  most  stately  and  yet 
most  lovely  of  British  plants ;  its  elegantly-mottled  and  in- 
versely conical  bells  are  well  worthy  the  attention  of  the  en- 
tomologists, as  a  variety  of  tiny  beings  are  attracted  by  the 
shelter,  or  by  the  rich  repast  which  the  blossoms  afford,  to 
continually  resort  to  them,  and 

**  Bees  that  soar  for  bloom 
High  as  the  highest  peak  of  Furness  Fells, 
Will  murmur  by  the  hour  in  foxglove  bells. " 

The  campanular  shape  of  these  attractive  flowers  seems  as 
inviting  to  the  pens  of  modern  poets  as  was  its  finger-like  form 
to  those  of  yore ;  and  so  we  find  not  only  Wordsworth,  but 


232  •  Foxglove. 

also  Charlotte  Smith  and  Eliza  Cook,  alluding  to  its  "  bells." 
The  former  poetess  invites  the  bee  to 

"Explore  the  foxglove's  freckled  bell ;" 

and  the  latter  woos  the  south  wind  to  ring 

' '  A  fairy  chime 
Upon  the  foxglove  bells." 

The  common  foxglove  varies  in  colour  from  a  Roman  pur- 
ple to  a  violet  hue,  and  is  found  of  a  cream  colour,  orange- 
tawney,  blush-colour,  and  white.  It  is  a  pity  these  plants  are 
poisonous,  for  they  are  extremely  beautiful,  particularly  those 
kinds  which  are  of  a  deep  rose.  They  are  all  speckled  within 
the  bell,  which  adds  still  more  to  their  richness.  Tennyson 
truly  styles  them  "the  foxglove's  dappled  bells." 

This  elegant  plant  was  well  known  to  the  ancients  for  its 
medicinal  qualities,  and  during  the  middle  ages  its  celebrity 
as  a  vulnerary  became  proverbial  in  Italy,  of  which  country 
the  iron-coloured  species  is  a  native.  Modern  botanists  have 
claimed  it  as  an  important  remedy  in  pulmonary  complaints : 

"The  foxglove-leaves,  w^ith  caution  given, 
Another  proof  of  favouring  Heaven 

Will  happily  display  : 
The  rabid  pulse  it  can  abate, 
The  hectic  flush  can  moderate. 
And,  blest  by  Him  whose  will  is  fate, 

May  give  a  lengthen'd  day. " 

Poets  frequently  presuming  upon  their  intimate  acquaintance 
with  Nature,  term  her  children  by  any  name  that 's  sweet,  and 
often  electing  amongst  themselves  what  certain  things  certain 
blooms  shall  typify,  have  christened  the  finger-flower  "  emblem 
of  punishment :" 

* '  Foxglove  and  nightshade,  side  by  side, 
Emblems  of  punishment  and  pride." 


«-*<^p5i^Vi-^ 


Pimpernel. 

(CHANGE.) 

"More  bitter  far  than  all 
It  was  to  know  that  love  could  change  and  die." 

A.  A.  Procter. 

THE  scarlet  Pi77tper7iel  sha.res  with  the  common  red  poppy 
the  honour  of  being  the  only  instances  of  bright  scarlet 
blossoms  amongst  our  British  wild  flowers,  flowers  of  that  vivid 
hue  generally  requiring  the  tropical  sun  to  warm  them  into 
life. 

This  bright  little  emblem  of  change  does  not  unfold  its 
brilliant  petals  until  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  refolds 
them  towards  noon :  this  habit  has  obtained  for  it  the  cogno- 
men of  "  the  poor  man's  weather-glass  ;  "  whilst  for  its  useful- 
ness in  foretelling  the  approach  of  rain,  it  is  frequently  known 
as  "  the  shepherd's  warning."  Few  who  have  passed  a  portion 
of  their  life  in  the  country  but  are  acquainted  with  this  pro- 
perty of  the  pretty  little  pimpernel.  Whenever  its  tiny  scarlet 
blossoms  are  seen  folding  up  their  delicate  petals,  it  may  be 
deemed  a  certain  indication  of  approaching  rain;  and  as  such 
a  sign  Darwin  notices  it  : 

"Closed  is  the  pink-eyed  pimpernel ; 
In  fiery  red  the  sun  doth  rise, 
Then  wades  through  clouds  to  mount  the  skies; 
'T  will  surely  rain,  we  see 't  with  sorrow, — 
No  working  in  the  fields  to-morrow." 

Should  rainy  weather  endure  for  several  days,  the  pimpernel 
is  said  to  lose  its  sensibility,  and  fails  to  foretell  the  coming 
change. 

This  flower  was  said  to  have  derived  its  ancient  name  of 
Cenhmculus,  from  cento,  "a  covering,"  because  it  spreads  itself 
so  profusely  over  cultivated  fields  ;  but  more  recently  that 
appellation  has  been  transferred  to  the  chaffweed.    It  was  also 


234  Pimpernel. 


known  formerly  as  Anagallis,  which  signifies  "a  laugh  ;"  and 
Pliny  said  that,  when  taken  inwardly,  it  promoted  mirth.  This 
was  probably  the  reason  why  poets  styled  it  "the  cheerful 
pimpernel." 

There  is  a  blue  variety  of  this  little  blossom,  as  also  a  rose- 
coloured  one,  but  this  latter  is  very  rare.  A  pure  white  kind, 
with  a  beautiful  purple  centre,  is  sometimes?  met  with  in  Wales. 

Doubtless  it  was  some  such  sym.boi  tioweret  as  this  frail 
emblem  of  change  which  Holmes  pictured  in  his  "  mind's  eye" 
when  he  sang  : 

•*  Some  years  ago,  a  dark-eyed  maid 

Was  sitting  in  the  shade — 
There  's  something  brings  her  to  my  mind 

In  that  young  dreaming  maid — 
And  in  her  hand  she  held  a  flower, 

A  flower  whose  speaking  hue 
Said,  in  the  language  of  the  heart, 

'  Believe  the  giver  true.' 

"And  as  she  looked  upon  its  leaves, 

The  maiden  made  a  vow 
To  wear  it  when  the  bridal  wreath 

Vv'as  woven  for  her  brow. 
She  watch'd  the  flower,  as,  day  by  day. 

The  leaflets  curled  and  died ; 
But  he  who  gave  it  never  came 

To  claim  her  for  his  bride. 


**  Oh,  many  a  Summer's  morning  glow 

Has  lent  the  rose  its  ray, 
And  many  a  Winter's  drifting  snow 

Has  swept  its  bloom  away ; 
But  she  has  kept  that  faithless  pledge 

To  this  her  Winter  hour, 
And  keeps  it  still,  herself  alone. 

And  wasted  like  the  flower." 

How  appropriate  are  the  following  words  of  Adelaide  Procter 
to  this  frail  emblem  of  a  frailer  joy  : 

"Like  hopes,  perfumed  and  bright. 
So  lately  shining,  wet  with  dew  and  tears, 

Trembling  in  morning  light, 
I  saw  them  change  to  dark  and  anxious  fears 
Before  the  night  1" 


Clover. 

(I    PROMISE.) 

THE  white  Clovei%  or  Shamrock,  is  the  national  emblem 
of  Ireland,  and  claims  an  equal  place  in  history  with 
England's  rose,  or  Scotland's  thistle.  This  symbol  of  their 
loved  Emerald  Isle  is  worn  by  Irishmen  on  the  anniversary  and 
in  commemoration  of  St.  Patrick's  landing  near  Wicklow,  in 
the  beginning  of  the  fourth  century  of  the  Christian  era.  The 
patron -Saint  is  reported  to  have  explained  to  his  disciples  the 
mysteries  of  the  Trinity  by  means  of  a  clover-leaf,  or  trefoil 

This  emblem  of  promise  has  received  innumerable  tokens  of 
their  regard  for  its  good  qualities  from  the  poets  of  ill-fated 
Hibernia,  but  patriotism,  more  than  love  or  friendship,  is  the 
symbolism  portrayed.  Moore,  in  one  of  his  melodies,  couples 
the  shamrock  of  Ireland  with  the  olive  of  Spain ;  but  most 
assuredly  the  association  is  only  possible  in  song.  The  follow- 
ing rollicking,  anonymous  verses  are  thoroughly  characteristic 
of  the  sons  of  Hibernia,  and  portray  to  some  extent  the  love 
they  bear,  and  the  typical  uses  that  they  make  of,  the  white 
clover : 

"Brave  sons  of  Hibernia,  your  shamrocks  display, 
For  ever  made  sacred  on  St.  Patrick's  day; 
'T  is  a  type  of  religion,  the  badge  of  our  saint, 
And  a  plant  of  that  soil  which  no  venom  can  taint. 

"Both  Venus  and  Mars  to  that  land  lay  a  claim, 
Their  title  is  own'd  and  recoi'ded  by  fame ; 
But  St.  Patrick  to  friendship  has  hallowed  the  ground, 
And  made  hospitality  ever  abound. 

"Then  with  shamrocks  and  myrtles  let's  garnish  the  bowl. 
In  converse  convivial  and  sweet  flow  of  soul, 
To  our  saint  make  oblations  of  generous  wine — 
What  saint  could  have  more? — sure  'tis  woi^ship  divine  ! 

**Tho'  jovial  and  festive  in  seeming  excess, 
We  've  hearts  sympathetic  of  others'  distress. 
May  our  shamrocks  continue  to  flourish,  and  prove 
An  emblem  of  charity,  friendship,  and  love. 


236  Clover. 

"May  the  blights  of  disunion  no  longer  remain, 
Our  shamrock  to  wither,  its  glories  to  stain ; 
May  it  flourish  for  ever,  we  Heaven  invoke. 
Kindly  shelter'd  and  fenced  by  the  brave  Irish  oak ! " 

Bees  delight  in  the  sweet-scented  blossoms  of  what  Tennyson 
aptly  calls  the 

"Rare  'broidery  of  the  purple  clover," 

and  obtain  a  plentiful  supply  of  honey  from  its  blushing  lips : 
during  the  autumn  months  the  cheering  hum  of  these  "musical 
hounds  of  the  fairy  king,"  as  hither  and  thither  they  busily  flit 
over  their  floral  forest,  and  **  hunt  for  the  golden  dew,"  is  a  most 
delightful,  gladsome  melody. 

Walter  Thornbury,  one  of  our  most  picturesque  writers — a 
poet  who  paints  pictures  with  words  better  than  many  of  our 
artists  do  with  colours — has  the  following  dainty  lyric,  repre- 
sentative of  "  In  Clover  :  " 

"There  is  clover,  honey-sweet,  "You  may  track  the  winds  that  blow 

Thick  and  tangled  at  our  feet ;  Through  the  corn-fields  as  they  go ; 

Crimson-spotted  lies  the  field.  From  the  wheat,  as  from  a  sea, 

As  in  fight  the  warrior's  shield :  Springs  the  lark  in  ecstacy. 

Yonder  poppies,  full  of  scorn,  Now  the  bloom  is  on  the  blade, 

Proudly  wave  above  the  corn.  In  the  sun  and  in  the  shade. 

There  is  music  at  our  feet  There  is  music  at  our  feet 

In  the  clover,  honey-sweet.  In  the  clover,  honey-sweet. 

This  little  plant  is  endowed  with  several  strange  properties, 
not  the  least  singular  of  which  is  the  fact  that  if  moorlands  in 
the  north  of  England,  and  some  parts  of  North  America,  are 
turned  up  for  the  first  time,  and  strewed  with  lime,  white  clover 
springs  up  in  abundance,  typifying  to  the  wondering  farmer 
promise  of  future  bounteous  crops.  No  satisfactory  solution 
of  this  circumstance  has  yet  been  propounded.  The  sponta- 
neous coming  up  of  this  flower  is  deemed  an  infallible  indication 
of  good  soil.  Every  one  knows  all  the  wonderful  things  and 
brilliant  future  promised  to  the  finder  of  a  four-leaved  sham- 
rock !    Dear  reader,  may  you  be  that  favourite  of  Fortune  ! 

The  Druids  held  the  clover  in  great  repute,  deeming  it,  it  is 
supposed,  a  charm  against  evil  spirits.  Hope  was  depicted  by 
the  ancients  as  a  little  child  standing  on  tiptoe,  and  holding 
one  of  these  flowers  in  his  hand.  What  an  exquisite  allusion 
to  promised  pleasures  was  that ! 


Acacia. 

(FRIENDSHIP.) 

THE  tree  generally  called  the  Acacia  in  this  country  is  the 
Robinia,  or  pseicdo- acacia ;  but  the  veritable  symbol  of 
friendsJdp  is  the  honey-locust-tree,  or  three-thorned  acacia.  A 
native  of  North  America,  remarkable  for  its  brilliant  green 
foliage,  it  has  been  consecrated  by  the  Indians,  who  dwell  in 
the  still  unsurveyed  forests,  and  ramble  over  the  yet  boundless 
prairies,  to  the  deity  of  chaste  love,  and  as  the  emblem  of  that 
delicate  passion  it  is  sometimes  even  used  by  our  own  flori- 
graphists.  The  blossoms  are  small,  and  too  nearly  the  colour 
of  the  leaves  to  produce  any  striking  effect ;  but  the  pod  which 
succeeds  them,  being  upwards  of  a  foot  in  length  and  of  a  dark 
brown  colour,  contrasts  curiously  with  the  vivid  hue  of  the 
foliage.  The  trunk  and  branches  are  armed  with  large  red 
thorns,  which  present  a  very  singular  appearance.  The  Indians 
point  their  arrows  with  these  thorns,  and  make  their  bows  of 
this  tree's  incorruptible  wood,  whilst  they  use  its  blossoms  as 
"  token  flowers,  to  tell  what  words  can  ne'er  express  so  well." 

There  is  a  tree  growing  in  Oriental  climes  called  the  Egyp- 
tian acacia,  but  it  is  really  a  mimosa ;  a  valuable  and  fragrant 
gum,  much  used  as  incense  in  religious  ceremonials,  is  obtained 
from  it.  This  tree  is  supposed  to  be  the  shittah-tree  of  the  Old 
Testament.  Its  timber  is  styled  shittim,  which  some  translate 
as  "  incorruptible  wood."  In  the  fifteenth  chapter  of  Exodus  it 
is  recorded  that  the  Ark  of  the  Lord  was  made  of  shittim 
wood,  overlaid,  within  and  without,  with  pure  gold,  and  having 
a  crown  of  gold  round  about  it ;  and  in  the  following  chapter, 
we  read  that  the  staves  were  made  of  this  same  tree,  as  were 
also  the  boards  of  the  tabernacle,  and  the  woodwork  of  the 
altar  on  which  the  offerings  were  presented. 

This  latter  was  the  tree  which  Nourmahal  alluded  to  in  the 
lay  with  which  she  charmed  her  beloved  Selim's  ear : 

"Fly  to  the  desert,  fly  with  me,  "  Our  rocks  are  rough,  but  smihng  there 

Our  Arab  tents  are  too  rude  for  thee;         Th'  acacia  waves  her  yellow  hair, 
But,  oh!  the  choice  what  heart  can  doubt,     Lonely  and  sweet,  nor  loved  the  less 
Of  tents  with  love  or  thrones  without.         For  flowering  in  a  wilderness. 


238  Acacia 

"  Our  sands  are  bare,  but  down  their  slope  "Come,  if  the  love  thou  hast  for  me 
The  silvery-footed  antelope  Is  pure  and  fresh  as  mine  for  thee, — 

As  gracefully  and  gaily  springs,  Fresh  as  the  fountain  underground 

As  o'er  the  marble  courts  of  kings.  "When  first 't  is  by  the  lapwing  found.* 

**  Then  come — thy  Arab  maid  will  be  *'  But  if  for  me  thou  dost  forsake 

The  loved  and  lone  acacia-tree,  Some  other  maid,  and  rudely  break 

The  antelope  whose  feet  shall  bless  Her  worship'd  image  from  its  base, 

With  their  light  sound  thy  loneliness.  To  give  to  me  the  ruin'd  place ; 

**  Then  fly  with  me, — if  thou  hast  known  "Then  fare  thee  well, — I  'd  rather  make 

No  other  flame,  nor  falsely  thrown  My  bower  upon  some  icy  lake 

A  gem  away  that  thou  hadst  sworn  "When  thawing  suns  begin  to  shine, 

Should  ever  in  thy  heart  be  worn.  Than  trust  to  love  so  false  as  thine." 

Thus  passionately  sung  the  "  hght  of  the  harem,"  in  "  Lalla 
Rookh." 

The  pseudo-acacia  is  known  also  as  the  robinia,  and  was  thus 
named  by  Linnaeus  in  honour  of  Robin  the  botanist,  who — 
somewhat  more  than  a  century  ago — introduced  the  tree  into 
France  from  America.  There  are  two  species  of  this  acacia 
cultivated  in  Europe  :  their  foliage  is  of  a  peculiarly  brilliant 
green,  and  their  pea-shaped  blossoms  droop  in  elegant  clusters 
like  those  of  the  laburnum.  Their  beauty,  however,  is  fleeting, 
scarcely  lasting  for  a  week,  but  during  their  short-lived  exist- 
ence exhaling  a  sweet  perfume.  One  of  these  species  bears 
white  bloom ;  but  the  favourite  of  the  twain  bears,  as  its  name 
implies,  rose-coloured  flowers. 

In  a  well-known  "  Language  of  Flowers,"  this  latter  tree — 
the  rose  acacia — is  adopted  as  the  type  of  elegance,  because, 
remarks  the  editor,  "  the  art  of  the  toilet  cannot  produce  any- 
thing fresher  or  more  elegant  than  the  attire  of  this  pretty 
shrub.  Its  drooping  branches,  its  gay  green,  its  beautiful 
bunches  of  pink  flowers,  resembling  bows  of  ribbon — all  give 
it  the  appearance  of  a  fashionable  female  in  her  ball-dress." 

In  Burger's  BliLinensprache,  the  acacia,  as  in  most  native  and 
foreign  floral  languages,  stands  as  the  symbol  oi  friendsJiip. 

Under  its  name  of  locust-tree,  Holmes  uses  the  acacia  as  a 
symbol  of  mourning : 

**  When  damps  beneath  and  storms  above 
Have  bowed  these  fragile  towers, 
Still  o'er  the  grave  yon  locust-grove 
Shall  swing  its  Orient  flowers." 

'*  The  Jmdhud^  or  lapwing,  is  supposed  to  have  the  power  of  discovering  water 
un'lerground. 


Heath. 

(SOLITUDE.) 

WHEN  sorrow  takes  possession  of  the  wounded  heart; 
when  love  or  fortune  has  proved  unkind ;  when  the 
best  laid  schemes  are  gone  astray,  what  medicine  can  minister 
so  well  to  the  mind  diseased  as  solitude^  of  which  this  fairy 
flower  is  the  token  ?  Yes,  gentle  reader ;  when  grief  or  trouble 
assail  you  for  awhile,  forsake  the  common  herd  ;  go  forth,  and 
commune  with  Nature — with  Nature,  and  with  Nature's  God, 
and  be  assured  that  you  will  return  to  your  daily  duties  with 
a  reinvigorated  soul — with  a  mind  strengthened  and  "  prepared 
for  any  fate ; "  and  trust  that 

*'  Not  vainly  may  the  heath-flower  shed 
Its  moorland  fragrance  round  your  head." 

But  although  solitude,  dear  friend,  is  a  good  tonic,  taken  in 
small  doses  and  at  rare  intervals,  beware  of  too  great  indul- 
gence in  its  attractions,  or  you  may  find  the  physic  prove  a 
poison  after  all;  and,  to  quote  Professor  Blackie,  you  will 
learn  to  sigh, 

"Alone,  alone,  and  all  alone! 
What  could  more  lonely  be  ?  " 

To  many,  wandering,  perchance,  in  foreign  lands,  the  Heath 
is  endowed  with  a  thousand  tender  recollections  of  the  past — 
the  past  that  never  comes  again ;  and  Scottish  Highlanders, 
so  acutely  sensible  are  they  to  the  associations  of  home,  have 
been  seen  to  weep  like  children,  when  in  their  distant  exile 
they  have  beheld  a  bunch  of  simple  heather.  Grant  thus  gives 
expression  to  this  feeling  of  fondness  displayed  by  the  sturdy 
Scot  for  his  native  plant: 

''Flowers  of  the  wild,  whose  purple  glow 
Adorns  the  dusky  mountain's  side, 
Not  the  gay  hues  of  Iris'  bow, 

Nor  garden's  gorgeous,  varied  pride, 
"With  all  its  wealth  of  sweets,  could  cheer 
Like  thee,  the  hardy  mountaineer. 


240  Heath. 

"Flower  of  his  dear-loved  native  land  ! 
Alas  !  when  distant,  far  more  dear ! 
When  he  from  cold  and  foreign  strand 

Looks  homeward  through  the  blinding  tear, 
How  must  his  aching  heart  deplore 

That  home,  and  thee,  he  sees  no  more ! " 

And  well  may  the  Highlander  value  this  lovely  little  blos- 
som, for  not  only  does  it  brighten  the  bleak  hill-sides  of  his 
mountainous  home,  but  it  also  supplies  many  a  needed  house- 
hold deficiency.  In  olden  times  it  formed  an  important  in- 
gredient in  his  favourite  drink,  and  even  now  is  so  used  in 
some  outlying  districts :  a  fine  orange  dye  is  produced  from 
its  tops,  boiled  with  alum ;  strong  durable  ropes  are  manu- 
factured from  its  fibres;  and,  though  last,  not  by  any  means 
least,  its  warm  elastic  sprays  form  a  sweet  soft  bed,  whereon 
he  may  repose  his  wearied  limbs  : 

"  Of  this,  old  Scotia's  hardy  mountaineers 
Their  rustic  couches  form  ;  and  there  enjoy 
Sleep  which,  beneath  his  velvet  canopy, 
Luxurious  idleness  implores  in  vain." 

Charlotte  Smith. 

Well  does  Withering  remark,  when  speaking  of  the  heath, 
that  as  the  ancients  were  wont  to  repose  on  the  leaves  of  poetic 
trees,  not  doubting  their  power  of  inspiration — as  the  Agnus 
cactus  was  fabled  to  compose  the  troubled  mind,  the  laurel  to 
excite  poetic  fire,  or  the  bay  to  suggest  martial  visions — why 
may  not  the  heather  couch  equally  refresh  the  weary  limbs  of 
the  rough  mountaineer,  and  awaken  noble  sentiments  in  minds 
scarcely  less  imaginative  than  those  of  the  ancient  Greeks,  and 
nothing  lacking  in  credulity  t 

The  Highland  heath-bed  is  thus  described  in  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  novel  of  "Rob  Roy:"  "I  remarked  that  Rob  Roy's 
attention  had  extended  itself  to  providing  us  better  bedding 
than  we  had  enjoyed  the  night  before.  Two  of  the  least  fra- 
gile of  the  bedsteads,  which  stood  by  the  wall  of  the  hut,  had  . 
been  stuffed  with  heath,  then  in  full  flower,  so  artifically  ar- 
ranged that  the  flowers,  being  uppermost,  afforded  a  mattress 
at  once  elastic  and  fragrant.  Cloaks,  and  such  bedding  as 
could  be  collected,  stretched  over  this  vegetable  couch,  made 
it  both  soft  and  warm." 

The  heath  has,  within  the  compass  of  a  few  years,  risen  from 


Heath.  241 

neglect  to  splendour.  Every  one  remembers  that  Pope  marks 
it  with  contempt,  at  the  same  time  that  he  celebrates  the  colour 
of  the  flowers  : 

**E'en  the  wild  heath  displays  its  purple  dyes." 

Until  within  the  last  few  years,  scarcely  half  a  dozen  varieties 
were  known,  and  now  they  are  reckoned  by  hundreds.  They 
are  all  beautiful,  and  the  flowers  range  in  hue  from  a  purple- 
tinged  rose  to  pure  white. 

Eliza  Cook  has  entwined  some  of  her  ever-happy  lines 
around  this  sweet  symbol  of  solitude  : 

*'  Wild  blossoms  of  the  moorland,  ye  are  very  dear  to  me; 
Ye  lure  my  dreaming  memory  as  clover  does  the  bee ; 
Ye  bring  back  all  my  childhood  loved,  when  freedom,  joy,  and  health 
Had  never  thought  of  wearing  chains  to  fetter  fame  and  wealth. 
Wild  blossoms  of  the  common  land,  brave  tenants  of  the  earth. 
Your  breathings  were  among  the  first  that  helped  my  spirit's  birth ; 
For  how  my  busy  brain  would  dream,  and  how  my  heart  would  bum, 
Where  gorse  and  heather  flung  their  arms  above  the  forest  fern. 


**  Who  loved  me  then?     Oh,  those  who  were  as  gentle  as  sincere, 
Who  never  kiss'd  my  cheek  so  hard  as  when  it  own'd  a  tear. 
Whom  did  I  love?    Oh,  those  whose  faith  I  never  had  to  doubt; 
Those  who  grew  anxious  at  my  sigh  and  smiled  upon  my  pout. 
What  did  I  crave?    The  power  to  rove  unquestion'd  at  my  will; 
Oh,  wayward  idler  that  I  was ! — perchance  I  am  such  still. 
What  did  I  fear?    No  chance  or  change,  so  that  it  did  not  turn 
My  footstep  from  the  moorland  coast,  the  heather,  and  the  fern. 

"  Methinks  it  M^as  a  pleasant  time,  those  gipsy  days  of  mine, 
When  youth  with  rosy  magic  turn'd  life's  waters  into  wine ; 
But  nearly  all  who  shared  those  days  have  pass'd  away  from  earth, 
Pass'd  in  their  beauty  and  their  prime,  their  happiness  and  mirth. 
So  now,  rich  flow'rets  of  the  waste,  I  '11  sit  and  talk  to  ye. 
For  memory's  casket,  fill'd  with  gems,  is  open'd  by  your  key ; 
And  glad  I  am  that  I  can  grasp  your  blossoms  sweet  and  wild, 
And  find  myself  a  doter  yet,  a  dreamer,  and  a  child." 


'■<^-^^^^^^-^ 


16 


-^^ 


^^ 


Clemati  s. 

(ARTIFICE.) 

THIS  pleasing  flower,  called  frequently  Virgin's-bower  ur 
Traveller's  Joy,  has  unfortunately  been  adopted  as  the 
emblem  of  artifice,  because,  some  say,  beggars,  in  order  to 
excite  pity,  make  false  ulcers — which,  however,  sometimes 
produce  real  ones — in  their  flesh  by  means  of  its  twigs. 

Its  specific  name  of  Clematis  is  derived  from  the  Greek  word 
klema,  signifying  a  small  branch  of  a  vine,  because  most  of 
these  plants  climb  like  a  vine,  rambling  over  everything. 

"  O'errun 
By  vines  and  boundless  clematis," 

as  Procter  says  in  some  of  his  delightful  verses. 

"Traviler's  joie  is  this  same  plant  termed,"  says  Gerarde, 
"as  decking  and  adorning  waies  and  hedges  where  people 
travell;  virgin's-bower,  by  reason  of  the  goodly  shadowe  which 
they  make  with  their  thick  bushing  and  climbing,  as  also  for 
the  beautie  of  the  floweres,  and  the  pleasant  scent  and  savour  "f 
of  the  same ;  and  by  country  folks,  '  old  man's  beard,'  from 
the  hoary  appearance  of  the  seeds,  which  remain  long  on  the 
hedges." 

Loudon,  however,  considered  that  the  name  of  virgin's- 
bower  was  probably  given  to  this  flower — introduced  into 
England  in  1569 — with  the  intention  of  conveying  a  compli- 
ment to  Queen  Elizabeth,  who  liked  to  be  styled  and  alluded 
to  as  the  "Virgin  Queen." 

One  species  of  clematis  is  known  as  Ladies'-bower,  "  from 
its  aptness,"  says  old  Gerarde,  "to  make  bowers  or  arbours 
in  gardens."  Keats,  in  his  luscious  poem  of  "Endymion," 
describes  such  a  bower  "  for  whispering  lovers  made,"  wherein 
a  youth  is  sleeping : 


Clematis.  243 


"  Round  him  grew 
All  tendrils  green,  of  every  bloom  and  hue, 
Together  intertwined,  and  trammel'd  fresh: 
The  vine  of  glossy  sprout ;  the  ivy-mesh, 
Shading  its  Ethiop  berries ;  and  woodbine 
Of  velvet  leaves,  and  bugle  blooms  divine ; 
Convolvulus  in  streaked  vases  flush ; 
The  creeper  mellowing  for  an  Autumn  blush ; 
And  virgin's-bower,  trailing  airily, 
With  others  of  the  sisterhood." 

The  profusion  of  elegant  sweet-scented  blossom  with  which 
the  clematis  decks  itself  during  the  sunny  summer,  as  the 
autumn  approaches  gradually  gives  place  to  long,  feathery, 
downy  seeds,  and  these,  in  graceful  pensile  tufts,  hang  like 
drapery  on  the  autumnal  hedges,  enlivening  the  roadsides  long 
after  flowers  have  vanished — not  unfrequently  remaining  until 
the  commencement  of  December.  It  seems  unjust  that  so 
welcome  a  plant,  which  lingers  so  lovingly  with  us  long  after 
all  its  floral  friends  have  sought  the  land  of  shadows,  should 
be  deemed  the  representative  of  artifice  ;  but  the  florigraphists 
have  so  willed  it,  and  by  their  decision  we  must  abide.  The 
long  feathery  down  attached  to  the  seeds  is  made  use  of  by 
field-mice  to  render  their  nests  soft  and  warm,  and  hence  they 
are  frequently  found  at  the  entrance  to  their  holes,  where 

' '  Oft  the  little  mouse, 
Eludes  our  hopes,  and,  safely  lodged  below, 
Hath  formed  his  granaries." 


Amaranth. 

(IMMORTALITY.) 
* '  Immortal  amaranth. " 


Milton. 


MOST  poetical  of  all  flowers  in  meaning  is  the  Amaranth. 
Christened  by  the  Greeks  "never-fading,"  because  of 
the  lasting  nature  of  its  bloom,  it  has  been  selected  as  the 
symbol  of  immortality,  and  as  such  it  has  ever  been  associated 
with  Death,  significant  that  that  is  the  portal  through  which 
the  soul  must  pass  in  its  search  after  the  undying  blossoms  of 
Eternity.  Milton  assigns  crowns  of  amaranth  to  the  angelic 
multitude  assembled  before  the  Deity  : 

* '  To  the  ground 
With  solemn  adoration  down  they  cast 
Their  crowns  inwove  with  amaranth  and  gold. 
Immortal  amaranth — a  flower  which  once 
In  Paradise,  fast  by  the  tree  of  life, 
Began  to  bloom  ;  but  soon  for  man's  offence 
To  heaven  removed,  where  first  it  grew,  there  grows 
And  flowers  aloft,  shading  the  font  of  life. 
And  where  the  river  of  bliss,  through  midst  of  heaven 
Rolls  o'er  Elysian  flowers  her  amber  stream  : 
With  these  that  never  fade  the  spirits  elect 
Bind  their  resplendent  locks  enwreath'd  with  beams  ; 
Now  in  loose  garlands  thick  thrown  off",  the  bright 
Pavement,  that  like  a  sea  of  jasper  shone, 
Impurpled  with  celestial  rosy  smile." 

Well  may  the  amaranth's  splendour  be  lauded,  for,  as  Miller 
truthfully  confesses,  "  there  is  not  a  handsomer  plant  than 
this  in  its  full  lustre."  The  author  of  "  Flora  Domestica,"  de- 
scribing the  purple  variety,  says  it  resembles  clover  raised 
to  an  immense  pitch  of  colour  and  sprinkled  with  grains  of 
gold.  And  this  same  lady  is  our  authority  for  the  following 
paragraph : 

These  flowers  gathered  when  full-grown  and  dried  in  the 
shade  will  preserve  their  beauty  for  years,  particularly  if  they 
are  not  exposed  to  the  sun.     A  friend  of  the  writer's  possesses 


Amaranth.  245 


some  amaranths,  both  purple  and  yellow,  which  he  has  had  by 
him  for  several  years,  enclosed  with  some  locks  of  hair  in  a 
little  marble  urn.  They  look  as  vivid  as  if  they  were  put  in 
yesterday." 

Homer  describes  the  Thessalians  as  wearing  crowns  of  these 
funereal  flowers  at  the  entombment  of  Achilles ;  and  Spenser 
and  Milton  both  class  the  amaranth  as  amongst  "those  flowers 
that  sad  embroidery  wear,"  the  brilliancy  of  its  glowing  colours 
notwithstanding.  The  most  admired  species  of  this  plant  is  a 
native  of  the  West  Indies,  and  is  called  the  "tricolor,"  on  ac- 
count of  its  variegated  hues  of  crimson,  green,  and  gold.  The 
Spaniards  call  it  "  the  parrot,"  the  feathers  of  which  gaudily- 
plumed  bird  Gerarde  considers  its  flowers  resemble.  At  the 
floral  games  held  at  Toulouse — as  a  brilliant  compliment  to 
the  deserver  of  immortality — a  golden  amaranth  was  awarded 
as  prize  for  the  best  lyric  composition. 

In  1633,  Queen  Christiana  of  Sweden  gave  an  entertainment 
in  honour  of  Don  Antonio  Pimentel,  the  Spanish  ambassador. 
She  appeared  on  this  occasion  in  a  dress  covered  with  dia- 
monds, and  was  attended  by  a  splendid  train  of  nobles  and 
ladies.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  ball  she  stripped  her  attire 
of  the  diamonds,  and  distributed  them  among  the  company, 
and  at  the  same  time  presented  her  favourite  nobles  with  the 
insignia  of  a  new  order  of  knighthood,  consisting  of  a  riband 
and  medal,  with  an  amaranth  in  enamel,  encircled  with,  the 
motto,  Dolce  nella  memoria. 

One  of  the  most  popular  species  of  the  amaranth  is  the 
"  Love-lies-bleeding."  The  origin  of  this  singular  appellation  is 
not  known,  but  it  has  been  suggested  that  the  following  verses 
of  Moore's  account  for  it.  The  daughter  of  O'Connor  is  la- 
menting over  the  tomb  of  Connocht  Moran : 

*' A  hero's  bride  !  this  desert  bower, 
It  ill  befits  thy  gentle  breeding  : 
And  wherefore  dost  thou  love  this  flower 
To  call  '  my-love-lies-bleeding '  ? 

' '  This  purple  flower  my  tears  have  nursed  ; 
A  hero's  blood  supplied  its  bloom  : 
I  love  it,  for  it  was  the  first 

That  grew  on  Connocht  Moran's  tomb." 

In  Portugal  and  other  warmer  climes  than  ours,  they  adorn 


246  Amaranth 


the  churches  at  Christmas-time  with  the  amaranth,  as  an  em- 
blem of  that  immortahty  which  their  faith  bids  them  look 
forward  to  :  to  the  lover  it  is  ever  a  symbol  of  undying  love. 

Shelley  introduces  this  flower  into  his  poem  of  "  Rosalind 
and  Helen,"  as  suitable  to  wear  in  a  chaplet ;  thus  he  says : 

"Whose  sad  inhabitants  each  year  would  come 

With  willing  steps,  climbing  that  rugged  height, 

And  hang  long  locks  of  hair,  and  garlands  bound 
With  amaranth  flowers,  which,  in  the  clime's  despite. 
Filled  the  frore  air  with  unaccustomed  light. 

Such  flowers  as  in  the  wintry  memory  bloom 

Of  one  friend  left,  adorned  that  frozen  tomb. " 

There  is  a  passage  in  "  Don  Quixote,"  in  which  are  depicted 
some  Spanish  ladies  clad  like  beautiful  shepherdesses,  except 
that  their  bodices  and  petticoats  were  of  line  brocade,  theii 
habits  of  rich  golden  tabby ;  they  wore  their  hair,  which 
rivalled  the  sun's  rays  in  brightness,  hanging  loose  about  their 
shoulders,  and  their  heads  were  crowned  with  garlands  of  green 
laurel  and  the  scarlet  blossorns  of  the  amaranth  interwoven. 

The  people  of  the  Batta  country,  in  Sumatra  or  Tamara, 
when  undisturbed  by  war,  are  said  to  lead  a  lazy,  inactive  life, 
passing  the  day  in  playing  on  a  kind  of  flute,  crowned  with 
garlands  of  flowers,  of  which  the  Globe  Amaranth  is  the 
favourite.  Moore  notes  this  partiality  in  his  ever-blooming 
rhyme : 

**  Amaranths  such  as  crown  the  maids 
That  wander  through  Tamara's  shades." 

Although  the  amaranths  are  chiefly  natives  of  America,  and 
very  few  are  supposed  to  grow  naturally  in  Europe,  yet  Sir 
William  Jones  speaks  of  them  in  terms  that  would  imply  that 
they  grew  wild  in  Wales  : 

**  Fair  Tivy,  how  sweet  are  thy  waves  gently  flowing. 
Thy  wild  oaken  woods  and  green  eglantine  bowers, 
Thy  banks  with  the  blush-rose  and  amaranth  glowing, 
While  friendship  and  mirth  claim  their  labourless  hours." 


^^'im^<mw^m'^^o 


r^ 


Mandrake. 

(RARITY.) 

**  The  fleshly  mandrake's  stem, 
That  shrieks  when  plucked  at  night." 


Moore. 


OUR  ancestors  attributed  all  kinds  of  wonderful  properties 
to  the  Mandrake ;  and,  even  now,  in  the  countries  of 
which  it  is  a  native,  it  is  deemed  typical  of  all  kinds  of  dread- 
ful things.  There  appears  to  be,  however,  some  little  doubt 
as  to  what  plant  the  ancients  really  meant  when  they  spoke 
of  the  mandragora,  and  to  which  they  ascribed  such  marvel- 
lous virtues ;  but,  at  all  events,  it  is  certain  that  the  root  that 
passes  under  that  name  in  England,  and  which — in  order  to 
gratify  the  superstitious  fancies  of  the  ignorant— quacks  con- 
trive to  contort  into  some  resemblance  to  the  human  form,  is 
only  the  briony,  the  veritable  emblem  of  rarity ,  growing  no 
nearer  than  the  south  of  Europe. 

Amongst  Oriental  races  the  mandrake,  probably  on  account 
of  its  foetid  odour  and  venomous  properties,  is  regarded  with 
intense  abhorrence ;  the  Arabs,  Richardson  says,  call  it  "  the 
devil's  candle,"  because  of  its  shiny  appearance  in  the  night; 
a  circumstance  thus  alluded  to  by  Moore  in  his  "Lalla  Rookh:" 

"Such  rank  and  deadly  lustre  dwells, 
As  in  those  hellish  fires  that  light 
The  mandrake's  charnel  leaves  at  night." 

There  is  an  old,  deeply-rooted  superstition  connected  with 
this  ominous  plant,  which  we  have  reason  to  believe  is  not  yet 
altogether  eradicated  from  the  minds  of  the  uneducated,  that 
the  mandrake  grows  up  under  the  gallows,  being  nourished  b.y 
the  exhalations  from  executed  criminals  ;  and  that  when  it  is 
pulled  out  of  the  ground  it  utters  lamentable  cries,'  as  if  pos- 
sessed of  sensibility : 


248  Mandrake. 


"  The  phantom  shapes — oh,  touch  them  not — 
That  appal  the  murderer's  sight, 
Lurk  in  the  fleshly  mandrake's  stem. 
That  shrieks  when  pluck'd  at  night. " 

So  says  Moore  in  verse,  only  repeating  what  many  have  said 
gravely  in  prose. 

Another  terrible  quality  imputed  to  this  wretched  plant  was 
that  the  person  pulling  it  out  of  the  ground  would  be  seriously 
injured  by  its  pestilential  effects,  some  even  averring  that 
death  speedily  resulted  from  them ;  in  order,  therefore,  to 
guard  against  this  danger,  the  surrounding  soil  was  removed, 
and  the  plant  fastened  securely  to  a  dog,  so  that  when  the 
animal  was  driven  away  he  drew  up  the  root,  and  paid  the 
penalty  of  the  deed. 


Speedwell. 

(FIDELITY.) 
*•  Those  flowers  of  an  azure  as  pure  as  the  sky." 


Axon. 


THESE  beautiful  little  symbols  oi  fidelity  zx^  sometimes 
called  by  their  older  name  of  Veronica,  an  abridgment 
of  Vera-icon,  an  appellation  compounded  out  of  Latin  and 
Greek,  and  signifying  true  image.  This  singular  designation 
of  the  Speedwell  arose  from  one  of  those  quaint  semi-religious 
superstitions  of  the  middle  ages,  with  which  European  tra- 
ditionary literature  has  been  so  deeply  imbued.  The  legend 
records  that  the  handkerchief  of  St.  Veronica  received  the 
impression  of  the  Saviour's  face,  as  He  used  it  to  wipe  away 
the  perspiration  from  His  countenance  when  bearing  His  cross 
to  the  place  of  crucifixion;  and  from  some  fancied  resemblance 
in  the  blossom  of  this  flower  to  the  sacred  relic,  it  was  named 
after  its  sainted  owner.  The  flowers  of  the  speedwell  are 
flesh-coloured,  white,  or  blue,  but  the  latter  hue  is  most  ad- 
mired. The  lovely  little  blue  Rock  Speedwell  is  frequently 
called  forget-me-not,  but  has  no  real  claim  to  that  memorable 
title :  it  is  probably  the  hopeful-looking  little  floweret  which 
Germans  are  so  fond  of  planting  upon  graves,  and  to  which 
these  lines  refer: 

*'  Meet  offerings  they  are  to  the  kind  and  the  good. 

Those  flowers  of  an  azure  as  pure  as  the  sky ; 
And  these  are  they  gathered  in  mournfullest  mood. 

Or  planted  and  tended  with  many  a  sigh. 
Where  friendship  reposes,  or  love  is  asleep, 

Their  beauty  is  decking  the  lowly  green  sod  ; 
While  heart-stricken  mourners  come  hither  to  weep, 

Over  her  who  has  left  them  to  rise  to  her  God." 

The  Germander  Speedwell  is  a  native  of  Europe  and  Japan. 
"  Few  of  our  wild  flowers,"  remarks  Mr.  Martyn,  "  can  vie  in 


250 


Speedwell. 


elegance  and  beauty  with  this.  In  May  and  June  every  hedge- 
bottom  and  grassy  slope  is  adorned  with  it."  Were  these  the 
beaming  little  blossoms  that  Shelley  mentally  beheld  when  he 
sang : 

*'  Where,  like  an  infant's  smile  over  the  dead, 
A  light  of  laughing  flowers  along  the  grass  is  spread  *'? 

But  these  bright  blue  emblems  are  not  meant  merely  for 
fidelity  to  our  departed  dear  ones.  They  are  given  us  to  love, 
admire,  and  make  use  of,  to  typify  our  feelings  towards  a  nearer 
one  and  a  dearer  one  than  all  other ;  and  as  such,  fair  reader, 
may  you  sincerely  present  and  accept  them. 


<^^*^ 


Narcissus. 

(SELF-LOVE.) 

THE  white  or  poetical  Narcissus  is  aptly  adopted  as  the 
florigrapliical  sign  of  egotism,  inasmuch  as,  according  to 
the  mythologists,  it  owes  its  origin  to  a  beautiful  youth  of 
Boeotia,  of  whom  it  had  been  foretold  that  he  should  live 
happily  until  he  beheld  his  own  face.  One  day,  when  heated 
by  the  chase,  Narcissus  sought  to  quench  his  thirst  in  a  stream; 
in  so  doing  he  beheld  the  reflection  of  his  own  lovely  features, 
of  which  he  immediately  became  enamoured,  and,  doubtless 
as  a  retribution  for  having  slighted  the  charms  of  the  nymph 
Echo,  the  conceited  lad  was  spellbound  to  the  spot,  where  he 
pined  to  death,  and  was  metamorphosed  by  the  gods  into  the 
flower  that  now  bears  his  name.  When  the  Naiads  had  la- 
mentingly  prepared  the  funeral  pile  for  the  beautiful  youth, 
%is  body  was  missing ; 

"  Instead  where'^f  a  yellow  flower  was  found, 
With  tufts  of  white  about  the  button  crown'd;" 

and  ever  since  is  seen 

*'  Narcissus  fair, 

As  o'er  the  fabled  fountain  hanging  still." 

The  poetic  Narcissus  has  a  snow-white  flower,  with  a  yellow 
cup  in  the  centre,  fringed  on  the  border  with  a  brilliant  crimson 
circlet.  It  is  sweet-scented,  and  flowers  in  May.  The  cup  in 
the  centre  is  supposed  to  contain  the  tears  of  the  ill-fated 
Narcissus.     Keats  terms  it  "  a  lovely  flower : " 


(( 


A  meek  and  forlorn  flower,  with  nought  of  pride. " 


And  Shelley  gives  it  yet  kinder  and  more  flattering  words  in 
his  description  of  the  various  flowers  growing  with  the  sensi- 
tive plant :  in  that  terrestrial  garden  grew 

"  The  pied  wind  flowers  and  the  tulip  tall, 
And  Narcissi,  the  fairest  among  them  all, 
Who  gaze  on  their  eyes  in  the  stream's  recess, 
Till  they  die  at  their  own  dear  loveliness." 


Daffodil. 

(UNREQUITED     LOVE.) 

'"T^HE  yellow-coloured  species  of  the  Narcissus  is  generally 
X  known  as  the  Daffodil,  and  by  this  cognomen  the  beau- 
teous flower  is  more  frequently  addressed  by  the  poets.  By  the 
early  writers  it  was  regarded  as  a  member  of  the  lily  family, 
and  it  has  even  been  conjectured  that  its  name  is  nothing  but 
a  corruption  of  Dis's  lily,  as  it  is  supposed  to  be  the  flower 
that  dropped  from  Pluto's  chariot  when  he  was  carrying  off 
Proserpine  to  the  infernal  regions.  Jean  Ingelow,  in  the  beau- 
tiful poem  of  *'  Persephone,"  thus  introduces  this  flower  into  a 
resuscitation  of  the  antique  fable : 

"  She  stepped  upon  Sicilian  grass,  **  What  ailed  the  meadow  that  it  shook? 

Demeter's  daughter  fresh  and  fair,  What  ailed  the  air  of  Sicily  ? 

A  child  of  light,  a  radiant  lass,  She  wondered  by  the  brattling  brook, 

And  gamesome  as  the  morning  air.  And  trembled  with  the  trembling  lea. 

The  daffodils  were  fair  to  see,  *  The  coal-black  horses  rise — they  rise ; 

They  nodded  lightly  on  the  lea.  O  mother,  mother!'  low  she  cries. 

**  Lo !  one  she  marked  of  rarer  growth     "  '  O  light,  light !'  she  cries,  'farewell; 

Than  orchis  or  anemone ;  The  coal-black  horses  wait  for  me. 

For  it  the  maiden  left  them  botli,  O  shade  of  shades,  where  I  must  dwell, 

And  parted  from  her  company.  Demeter,  mother,  far  from  thee  ! 

Drawn  nigh,  she  deemed  it  fairer  still.  Oh,  fated  doom  that  I  fulfil ! 

And  stooped  to  gather  by  the  rill  Oh,  fateful  flower  beside  the  rill ! 

The  daffodil,  the  daffodil.  The  daffodil,  the  daffodil ! ' " 

Chaucer,  the  fountain-head  of  English  poetry,  alludes  to  this 
story  in  his  quaint  old  language,  and  Shakspeare,  who  had  a 
loving  word  for  all  things  lovely,  introduces  it  into  his  "Winter's 
Tale,"  in  this  exquisite  manner: 

*'  O  Proserpina, 
For  the  flowers  now  that,  frighted,  thou  lett'st  fall 
From  Dis's  wagon :  daffodils 
That  come  before  the  swallow  dares,  and  take 
Ihe  winds  of  March  with  beauty." 


Daffodil.  253 

The  dafTodil  was  a  great  favourite  with  many  of  the  Eh'za- 
bethan  poets,  who  have  left  several  laudatory  verses  upon  its 
charms  ;  but  the  most  admired — and  deservedly  so — appears 
to  be  Herrick's  sweet  address  to  daffodils: 

"  Fair  daffodils,  we  weep  to  see  **  We  have  short  time  to  stay  as  ye, 

Ye  haste  away  so  soon;  We  have  as  fleet  a  Spring, 

As  yet  the  early-rising  sun  As  quick  a  growth  to  meet  decay 

Has  not  attained  his  noon :  As  you  or  anything : 

Stay,  stay,                                •  We  die 

Until  the  hastening  day  As  your  hours  do,  and  dry 

Has  nm  Away, 

But  to  the  even-song.  Like  to  the  Summer's  rain. 

And,  having  pray'd  together,  we  Or  as  the  pearls  of  morning's  dew, 

Will  go  with  ye  along.  Ne'er  to  be  found  again. " 

Ancient  writers  did  not  omit  to  pay  this  sweet,  flower  its  due 
meed  of  praise,  although,  on  account  of  its  narcotic  properties, 
they  regarded  it  as  the  emblem  of  deceit;  for,  although  as  Homer 
assures  us,  it  delights  heaven  and  earth  with  its  odour  and 
beauty,  yet,  at  the  same  time,  it  produces  stupor  and  even  death. 
It  was  consecrated  to  the  Eumenides,  Ceres,  and  Proserpine, 
therefore  Sophocles  calls  it  the  garland  of  the  great  goddesses ; 
and  Pluto,  by  the  advice  of  Venus,  employed  it  to  entice  Pro- 
serpine to  the  lower  world. 

Virgil  speaks  of  the  cup  of  this  flower  as  containing  the 
tears  of  Narcissus,  and  Milton,  ever  ready  for  a  classic  allu- 
sion, bids 

"  Daffodils  fill  their  cups  with  tears, 
To  strew  the  laureat  hearse  where  Lycid  lies." 

Amongst  Eastern  races  the  daffodil  is  much  esteemed,  the 
Persians  designating  it  "  the  golden,"  and  the  Turks  "  the 
golden  bowl." 

The  Jonquil,  another  flowering  bulb  of  the  Narcissi  family, 
was  originally  imported  into  England  from  Constantinople.  It 
is  held  as  an  emblem  of  desire  by  the  Turks,  a  people  of  whose 
floral  language  such  an  interesting  account  is  contained  in  the 
fascinating  letters  of  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montague. 


"^^M, 


Iris. 

(A    MESSAGE.) 

THE  Iris  J  typical  of  a  message,  (A-d^xvcvs,  the  whole  world  as 
her  country,  different  members  of  the  family  dwelling  in 
every  quarter  of  the  globe.  Some  of  the  species  have  very  large 
flowers,  and,  from  their  colours  being  very  vivid,  and  several 
uniting  in  the  same  blossom,  are  extremely  showy.  The  Per- 
sian Iris  is  the  most  esteemed  for  the  beauty  and  fragrance  of 
its  flowers  :  a  few  of  them  will  perfume  a  whole  room.  Their 
colours  are  a  mixture  of  pale  sky-blue,  purple,  yellow,  and 
sometimes  white.  It  is  from  their  brilliant  and  diversified  hues, 
resembling  those  of  the  rainbow,  that  they  have  been  named 
after  the  messenger  of  the  gods.  It  is  well  known  that  the  fair 
Iris  was  the  bearer  of  good  news  only. 

The  Chalcedonian  Iris  has  also  very  large  flowers,  and  is 
deemed  the  most  magnificent  of  them  all ;  but  the  petals  are 
very  thin,  and  hang  in  a  kind  of  slatternly  manner,  making 
it  appear  to  some  persons  less  handsome  than  others  which 
are  smaller.  This  flower  is  termed  by  old  writers  the  Turkish 
Flower-de-L  uce. 

The  common  Yellow  Iris  is  generally  called  the  Flag.  This, 
and  several  of  its  kindred,  have  valuable  medicinal  and  mer- 
cantile uses,  whilst  the  seeds  are  the  best  substitute  for  coffee 
hitherto  discovered.  The  juice  is  sometimes  used  as  a  cosmetic 
for  removing  freckles,  and  a  most  lovely  colour  for  painting  is 
prepared  from  its  blossom. 

Many  of  the  African  kinds  of  this  flower,  Mr.  Martyn  tells 
us,  "are  eaten  both  by  men  and  monkeys." 

Although  the  iris  is  not  deemed  a  lily,  the  French  have  given 
it  the  name  of  one  :  it  is  the  veritable ^^^^//'-^^-//j"  which  figured 
in  the  former  arms  of  France. 


J 


Iris.  255 

The  conjectured  origin  of  this  name  is  thus  detailed  by  the 
Abbe  la  Pluche  in  his  ''Spectacle  de  la  Nature :'' 

The  upper  part  of  one  leaf  of  the  lily,  when  fully  expanded, 
and  the  two  contiguous  leaves,  beheld  in  profile,  have  a  faint 
likeness  to  the  top  of  the  flower-de-luce ;  so  that  the  original 
flower-de-lucCy  which  often  appears  in  the  crowns  and  sceptres 
in  the  monuments  of  the  first  and  second  races  of  kings,  was 
most  probably  a  composition  of  these  three  leaves.  Lewis  VI  I. 
engaged  in  the  second  crusade ;  distinguished  himself,  as  was 
customary  in  those  times,  by  a  particular  blazon,  and  took  this 
figure  for  his  coat  of  arms ;  and  as  the  common  people  gene- 
rally contracted  the  name  of  Lewis  into  "  Luce,"  it  is  natural 
to  imagine  that  this  flower  was,  by  corruption,  distinguished  in 
process  of  time  by  the  name  oi  flower-de-Luce. 

Some  antiquarian  Dryasdusts  object  to  this  floral  origin  of 
the  French  arms,  and  are  of  opinion  they  represent  three  toads, 
and  that  these,  becoming  odious  to  the  people,  were  gradually 
transmogrified  into  the  lilies  of  France ! 

The  German  peasantry  are  fond  of  cultivating  3.  fleur-dc-lts^ 
sometimes  called  Iris  Germanica,  on  the  roofs  of  their  cottages. 
In  alluding  to  this  custom,  in  an  old  "Language  of  Flowers,"  it 
is  stated  that  "  when  the  wind  waves  its  beautiful  flowers,  and 
the  sun  gilds  their  petals,  tinged  with  gold,  purple,  and  azure, 
it  looks  as  if  light  flames  were  playing  on  the  top  of  those 
rustic  dwellings." 

The  flag  is  prettily  pictured  by  Charlotte  Smith  as 

**Amid  its  waving  swords,  in  flaming  gold 
Tlie  iris  towers." 

This  plant  is  spoken  of  in  Exodus  as  affording  a  hiding- 
place  for  the  infant  Moses ;  but  it  is  impossible  to  decide  upon 
its  identity  with  the  common  Enghsh  flag,  to  which  Shakspearc 
and  many  of  our  older  poets  so  frequently  advert  in  theii 
writings. 

The  fleur-de-lis,  deemed  typical  of  a  flame,  or  as  denoting 
^^  I  burn','  is  thus  beautifully  presented  by  the  author  of  "Christ's 
Victorie :" 

*'  The  flowers-de-luce  and  the  round  sparks  of  dew 
That  hung  upon  their  azure  leaves,  did  show 
Like  twinkling  stars  that  sparkle  in  the  evening  blue." 


C2 


Violet. 

(MODESTY.) 
**  The  violet  is  for  modesty. " 


Burns. 


VIOLETS,  considered  by  some,  including  Scotia's  shepherd 
bard,  typical  of  modesty,  by  others  are  deemed  emble- 
matic of  faithfulness ;  and  the  latter  have  the  support  of  one 
of  Shakspeare's  contemporary  poets  : 

"Violet  is  for  faithfulness, 
Which  in  me  shall  abide  ; 
Hoping  likewise  that  from  your  heart 
You  will  not  let  it  slide." 

The  rank  which  this  timid  little  blossom  holds  in  floral 
caligraphy  is  a  very  exalted  one  ;  indeed,  the  rose  excepted, 
there  is  not  a  flower  that  **  tolls  its  perfume  on  the  passing  air," 
which  is  so  generally  admired  and  belauded.  From  Homer 
down  to  Tennyson,  not  a  famous  poet  but  has  linked  its 
sweetness  with  his  own,  and  many  are  the  lovely  ideas  its 
beauty  and  fragrance  have  suggested. 

"  The  violet  was  as  proud  a  device  of  the  Ionic  Athenians," 
says  a  well-known  author,  "  as  the  rose  of  England  and  the 
lily  of  France.  In  all  seasons  it  was  to  be  seen  exposed  for 
sale  in  the  market-place  at  Athens,  the  citizens  being  success- 
ful in  rearing  it  in  their  gardens  even  when  the  ground  was 
covered  with  snow." 

These  Greeks,  who  peopled  the  petals  of  every  blossom  and 
the  ripples  of  every  rill  with  the  graceful  ofl"spring  of  their 
fancy,  designated  this  floweret  Ion,  which  name  some  enter- 
prising etymologists  believe  to  be  a  derivation  of  la,  the 
daughter  of  Midas  and  the  betrothed  of  Atys,  whom,  they  say, 
to  conceal  her  from  Apollo,  Diana  transformed  into  a  violet. 
Other  mythological  accounts  state  that  Jupiter  caused  the  first 


I 


Violet.  257 

sweet  violets  to  spring  from  the  earth  as  food  for  persecuted 
lo,  whilst  she  was  hiding,  under  the  form  of  a  white  heifer,  from 
the  fury  of  Juno. 

Others  derive  the  origin  of  its  name  from  the  word  via,  a 
"wayside,"  whence  its  perfume  often  greets  the  wanderer. 
Lorenzo  de  Medici,  in  a  sonnet  addressed  to  Venus,  suggests 
that  the  admired  flowerling  sprang  from  her  empurpled  blood  ; 
but  we  know  not  what  authority  he  had  beyond  the  usual 
licence  of  pioets  for  thus  tampering  with  classic  fable. 

The  Latin  race  did  not  neglect  this  minstrel's  darling ;  and 
it  has  been  remarked  that  if  the  far-famed  roses  of  Psestum, 
which  bloomed  twice  in  the  year,  and  of  which  "  now  a  Virgil, 
now  an  Ovid  sang,"  did  arrest  the  voyager  on  his  course  by  their 
delicious  odours,  those  odours  might  also  have  received  some 
of  their  sweetness  from  these  flowers;  for  those  gardens  of 
Psestum  equally  boasted  of  their  violets  ;  "  which,"  as  Rogers 
says  in  a  note  to  a  passage  in  his  "  Pleasures  of  Memory," 
"  were  as  proverbial  as  the  roses,  and  mentioned  by  Martial." 
How  changed  is  that  renowned  place  !  All  that  now  remains 
of  its  ancient  glory  are  its  flowers,  and  still 

**The  air  is  sweet  with  violets  running  wild, 
'Mid  broken  sculptures  and  fallen  capitals." 

The  Romans,  who  much  used  a  wine  made  from  the  violets, 
seemed  to  think  that  they  could  never  have  enough  of  its  per- 
fume ;  and  they  are  censured  by  Horace  for  neglecting  their 
fruitful  olive-groves  for  beds  of  violets,  myrtles,  and  "all  the 
wilderness  of  sweets." 

The  poetry,  the  romance,  and  the  scenery  of  many  a  clime 
is  closely  associated  with  this  enthralling  floweret :  it  is  found 
in  almost  all  parts  of  the  world,  and  even  in  Persia — "the 
garden  of  Gul" — it  disputes  the  palm  of  supremacy  with  the 
rose.  It  is  supposed  to  have  been  discovered  first  in  Europe, 
but  now  perfumes  the  songs  of  all  literatures  and  the  gardens 
of  all  cilmes.  Apart  from  its  beauty  and  fragrance,  it  is  highly 
esteemed  for  its  medicinal  virtues,  and  the  finest  sherbet  of  the 
Mahommedans  is  said  to  be  concocted  of  violets  and  sugar. 
Lane  gives  his  testimony  to  the  delicious  flavour  of  this  drink, 
and  Tavernier  says  that  it  is  drunk  by  the  Grand  Signor  himself 

One  tradition  asserts  that  Mahomet  said,  "  The  excellence 

17 


258  Violet. 

of  the  extract  of  violets  above  all  other  extracts  is  as  the  ex- 
cellence of  me  above  all  the  rest  of  the  creation  :  it  is  cold  in 
summer,  and  it  is  hot  in  winter ;"  whilst  another  legend  hath 
that  "  the  excellence  of  the  violet  is  as  the  excellence  of  El 
Islam  above  all  other  religions." 

Arabic  and  Persian  poets  oft  and  o'er  pluck  similes  from  the 
petals  of  this  perfumed  blossom.  Ebu  Abrumi,  an  Arabian 
poet,  uses  a  very  trite  comparison  when  he  likens  blue  eyes 
weeping  to  violets  bathed  in  dew.  Amongst  our  English  poets 
who  have  illustrated  this  image  is  Elizabeth  Browning : 

"Dear  violets,  you  liken  to 
The  kindest  eyes  that  look  on  you 
Without  a  thought  disloyal." 

And  in  the  following  lines  on  a  faded  violet,  Shelley  embodies 
the  same  pretty  fancy  : 

"The  colour  from  the  flower  is  gone, 

Which  like  thy  sweet  eyes  smil'd  on  me ; 
The  odour  from  the  flow'r  is  flown, 

Which  breathed  of  thee,  and  only  thee ! 

**  A  wither'd,  lifeless,  vacant  form. 
It  lies  on  my  abandoned  breast, 
And  mocks  the  heart  which  yet  is  warm, 
With  cold  and  silent  rest. 

**  I  weep — my  tears  revive  it  not ; 

I  sigli — it  breathes  no  more  on  me  ; 
Its  mute  and  uncomplaining  lot 
Is  such  as  mine  should  be." 

The  same  poetic  comparison  is  employed  by  Shakspeare  in 
the ''Winter's  Tale:" 

* '  Violets  dim, 
But  sweeter  than  the  lids  of  Juno's  eyes, 
Or  Cytherea's  breath." 

The  frequent  allusions  made  to  "  the  nodding  violet "  by  the 
great  dramatist  causes  it  to  be  regarded  as  his  favourite  flower; 
and  that,  in  the  eyes  of  many,  will  not  be  one  of  its  slightest 
charms.  There  is  no  more  exquisite  passage  in  the  whole 
range  of  English  poesy  than  that  in  "  Twelfth  Night,"  where 
the  Duke,  listening  to  plaintive  music,  desires 

"  That  strain  again  ;  it  had  a  dying  fall : 
Oh,  it  came  o'er  my  ear  like  the  sweet  South, 
That  breathes  upon  a  bank  of  violets, 
Stealing  and  giving  odour." 


Violet.  259 

Many  are  the  passages  in  which  the  bard  of  Avon  employs 
his  beloved  flower  as  the  type  of  modesty  and  maidenhood. 
Indeed,  poets  are  continually  using  this  retiring  blossom  to 
emblemize  those  qualities. 

*'  Steals  timidly  away, 
Shrinking  as  violets  do  in  Summer's  ray," 

says  the  author  of  "  Lalla  Rookh."  Keats  delighted  to  paint 
Httle  secluded  sylvan  bowers  "where  violet-beds  were  nestling;" 
and  the  following  lines,  by  the  Rev.  John  Moultrie,  give  a  pretty 
picture  of  the  sort  of  place  where  these  sweet  flowers  may  be 
found  : 

*  *  Under  the  green  hedges  after  the  snow, 
There  do  the  dear  little  violets  grow, 
Hiding  their  modest  and  beautiful  heads 
Under  the  hawthorn  in  soft  mossy  beds. 

**  Sweet  as  the  roses,  and  blue  as  the  sky, 
Down  there  do  the  dear  little  violets  lie. 
Hiding  their  heads  where  they  scarce  may  be  seen  ; 
By  the  leaves  you  may  know  where  the  violet  hath  been. " 

Bernard  Barton,  in  "  Poetic  Vigils,"  speaks  of  the  "  unob- 
trusive worth  and  meek  content "  of  these  modest  blossoms, 
prompting  them  to  bless  the  passer-by  with  fragrance,  and  in 
mute  eloquence  express  their  timid  thoughts.  In  her  "  Gossip 
with  a  Bouquet,"  Mrs.  Sigourney  first  addresses  herself  to  "you, 
meek  violet,  with  your  eyes  of  blue."  The  venerable  and  vene- 
rated Barry  Cornwall,  whose  beautiful  lyrics  are  sweet  as  the 
hopes  of  youth  and  the  memories  of  old  age,  has  continually 
expressed  his  love  for  "  violets,  whose  looks  are  like  the  skies," 
and  in  the  following  stanza  even  assigns  it  the  first  rank  in 
Flora's  fragrant  Court : 

**The  king  told  Gyges  of  the  purple  flower  ; 

It  chanced  to  be  the  flower  the  boy  liked  most : 
It  has  a  scent  as  though  Love,  for  its  dower, 

Had  on  it  all  his  odorous  arrows  tost ; 
For  though  the  rose  has  more  perfuming  power, 

The  violet — haply  'cause  't  is  almost  lost. 
And  takes  us  so  much  trouble  to  discover — 
Stands  first  with  most,  but  always  with  a  lover." 

This  same  delicate  poet,  whose  songs  seem  almost  too  sweet 
for  singing,  has  favoured  us  with  this  fairy  lyric  to  the  violet : 

17 — 2 


26o  Violet. 

' '  I  love  all  things  the  seasons  bring, 
All  buds  that  open,  birds  that  sing. 

All  hues  from  white  to  jet ; 
All  the  sweet  words  that  Summer  sends 
When  she  recalls  her  flowery  friends, 
But  chief— the  violet. 

* '  I  love — how  much  I  love ! — the  rose. 
On  whose  soft  lips  the  south  wind  blows 

In  pretty,  amorous  threat ; 
The  lily  paler  than  the  moon. 
The  odorous,  wondrous  world  of  June, 

Yet  more — the  violet ! 

**  She  comes,  the  first,  the  fairest  thmg 
That  Heaven  upon  the  earth  doth  fling, 

Ere  Winter's  star  has  set : 
She  dwells  behind  her  leafy  screen. 
And  gives,  as  angels  give,  unseen. 

So,  love — the  violet. 

**  What  modest  thoughts  the  violet  teaches, 
What  gracious  boons  the  violet  preaches. 

Bright  maiden,  ne'er  forget ! 
But  learn,  and  love,  and  so  depart, 
And  sing  thou,  with  thy  wiser  heart, 
'  Long  live  the  violet !'  " 

Quaint  old  Paracelsus,  who  has  been  so  much  misunderstood, 
not  only  by  his  own,  but  by  many  successive  generations  of 
scoffers,  once  propounded  a  division  of  plants  according  to 
their  particular  odours,  and  presuming  the  possibility  of  such 
an  arrangement,  few,  if  any,  flowers  could  claim  a  higher  place 
than  the  modest  violet. 

It  has  been  justly  remarked  that  if  we  miss  in  our  native 
plants  something  of  the  gorgeousness  of  more  tropical  flowers, 
we  are  more  than  compensated  by  the  variety  and  delicacy  of 
their  perfume  :  the  scented  airs  floating  over  a  fragrant  "  bank 
of  violets,  stealing  and  giving  odour,"  would  amply  repay  the 
loss  of  all  the  gaudy  floral  treasures  of  the  vaunted  tropics. 

At  the  floral  games  instituted  at  Toulouse,  in  1323,  by  a 
lady  named  Clemence  Isaure,  whilst  the  gallant  troubadours 
were  in  the  heyday  of  their  glory,  a  golden  violet — "the 
glorious  flower  which  bore  the  prize  away" — was  the  recom- 
pence  annually  awarded  to  the  author  of  the  best  poem.  The 
fair  founder  of  the  renowned  pastimes  is  represented  as  sending, 
during  a  weary  imprisonment,  her  chosen  flower,  the  violet,  to 
her  knight,  that  he  might  wear  the  emblem  of  her  constancy. 


Violet.  261 

These  games,  discontinued  during  the  French  Revolution,  were 
revived  in  1808,  and,  although  necessarily  shorn  of  much  of 
their  ancient  glory,  are  still  celebrated  with  considerable  splen- 
dour: they  attained  their  558th  anniversary  this  year. 

**  The  Golden  Violet "  prize  was  the  theme  of  one  of  poor 
L.  E.  L.'s  pathetic  stories.    She  tells  us  she  deemed  that 

"No  flowers  grew  in  the  vale, 
Kissed  by  the  dew,  wooed  by  the  gale — 
None  by  the  dew  of  the  twilight  wet, 
So  sweet  as  the  deep  blue  violet  " 

And  expresses  the  wish  that 

"  When  the  grave  shall  open  for  me — 
I  care  not  how  soon  that  time  may  be — 
Never  a  rose  shall  grow  on  that  tomb, 
It  breathes  too  much  of  hope  and  bloom ; 
But  there  be  that  flower's  meek  regret. 
The  bending  and  deep  blue  violet. " 

Whilst  the  first  Napoleon  was  in  exile,  this  little  blossom 
was  adopted  by  his  followers  as  an  emblem  :  he  was  styled 
Le  Pcre  la  Violette,  and  a  small  bunch  of  violets  hung  up  in 
the  house,  or  worn  by  a  Frenchman,  denoted  the  adherence  of 
the  wearer  to  his  fallen  chieftain's  cause. 

The  White  Violet,  which  is  not  invariably  scentless,  as  is 
sometimes  erroneously  presumed,  is  emblematic  of  candour, 
although  some  authors  adopt  it  as  the  representative  of  inno- 
cence. 

Caroline  Bowles,  speaking  of  various  sorts  of  violets  growing 
in  her  garden,  says, 

*'  The  more  fragrant  white, 

E'en  from  that  very  root,  in  many  a  patch 
Extended  v/ide,  still  scents  the  garden  round." 


i^T 


Primrose. 

(YOUTH.) 
**The  primrose  I  will  pu',  the  firstling  of  the  year." 


Burns. 


THE  Primrose,  emblematical  oi  youth,  has  received  innu- 
merable deservedly  warm  encomiums  from  our  poets, 
but  none  sweeter  than  those  popular  lines  of  Robert  Herrick: 


*•  Ask  me  why  I  send  you  here 
This  firstling  of  the  infant  year ; 
Ask  me  why  I  send  to  you 
This  primrose  all  bepearl'd  with  dew ; 
I  straight  will  whisper  in  your  ears, 
The  sweets  of  love  are  wash'd   with 
tears. 


**  Ask  me  why  this  flower  doth  show 
So  yellow,  green,  and  sickly  too ; 
Ask  me  why  the  stalk  is  weak 
And  bending,  yet  it  doth  not  break ; 
I  must  tell  you,  these  discover 
What  doubts  and  fears  are  in  a  lover." 


This  pretty  lyric  is  only  one  out  of  many  which  go  to  prove 
that  their  quaint  old  bard  was  not  altogether  unacquainted 
with  the  natural  language  of  flowers.  Shakspeare,  who  was 
as  conversant  with  this  florigraphical  system  as  he  was  with 
every  other  mode  of  exciting  human  interest,  thus  daintily 
introduces  this  delicate  blossom  into  his  pathetic  drama  of 
"  Cymbeline,"  as  typical  of  the  youthful  dead  : 

**  With  fairest  flower^. 
Whilst  Summer  lasts,  and  I  live  here,  Fidele, 
I  '11  sweeten  thy  sad  grave :  thou  shalt  not  lack 
The  flower  that 's  like  thy  face,  pale  primrose. " 

Again,  in  the  "Winter's  Tale,^'  the  grand  dramatist  still 
more  explicitly  portrays  his  knowledge  of  its  symbolic  cha- 
racter: 

"  The  pale  primroses. 
That  die  unmarried  ere  they  can  behold 
Bright  Phoebus  in  his  strength." 

Milton  also  styles  this  vernal  bloom  "  the  pale  primrose."  It 
has  already  been  seen  described  by  Herrick  as  "  the  firstling 


Primrose.  26^ 


of  spring;"  thus  also  does  Burns  term  it  in  "The  Posie,"  and 
thus  also  did  Linnaeus  appropriately  name  it  in  his  botanical 
system;  whilst  in  his  native  Swedish  it  is  known  as  Maj-7iycklar, 
or  the  "  key  of  May."  Its  English  appellation  is  derived  from 
primus — "  the  first " — and  happily  expresses  one  of  its  charms. 
If  we  value  the  autumn  flowers  because  they  are  the  last, 
because  they  are  soon  to  leave  us,  still  more  do  we  delight  to 
welcome  the  blossoms  of  spring. 

This  fragile  flower  is  known  classically  as  Paralisos,  and  was. 
thus  styled  in  commemoration  of  a  youth  so  named,  who  pined 
away  with  grief  for  the  loss  of  his  betrothed,  Melicerta,  and 
was  metamorphosed  into 

**  The  rathe  primrose  that,  forsaken,  dies." 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  wild  primrose  of  our  island 
which  are  not  pale-coloured.  In  the  northern  counties  is  often 
found  the  Bird's-eye  Primrose,  lilac  hued  and  musky  scented ; 
and  in  Scotland  there  is  a  species  of  a  purple  nearly  as  deep- 
hued  as  the  garden  auricula.  Of  course,  the  best  known  and 
most  beloved  blossom  is  the  Sulphur-coloured  Primrose.  It  is 
the  primrose:  it  it  is,  which  we  associate  with  cowslips  and 
the  meadows;  it  it  is,  which  shines  like  an  earth-star  from  the 
grass  by  the  brook-side,  lighting  the  hand  to  pluck  it.  We  do 
indeed  give  the  name  of  primrose  to  the  other  flowers,  but  we  do 
this  in  courtesy.  We  feel  that  they  are  not  the  primroses  of  our 
youth;  not  the  primroses  with  which  we  have  played  at  bo-peep 
in  the  woods ;  not  the  irresistible  primroses  which  have  so  often 
lured  our  young  feet  into  the  wet  grass,  and  procured  us 
coughs  and  chidings.  There  is  a  sentiment  in  flowers ;  there 
are  flowers  we  cannot  look  upon,  or  even  hear  named,  without 
recurring  to  something  that  has  an  interest  in  our  hearts:  such 
are  the  primrose,  the  May-flower,  and  the  daisy. 

Yes !  such  a  blossom  is  this,  of  which  Isaak  Walton  once 
beautifully  remarked,  "  When  I  last  sat  on  this  primrose-bank, 
and  looked  down  these  meadows,  I  thought  of  them  as  Charles 
the  Emperor  did  of  Florence,  that  they  were  too  pleasant  to 
be  looked  on  but  only  on  holidays !" 

It  is  wonderful  how  strong  is  the  afl"ection  entertained  for 
those  flowers 

**  That  dwell  beside  our  paths  and  homes," 


264  Primrose. 


by  emigrants  on  foreign  shores.  Disregarding  the  gorgeous 
blooms  that  flaunt  their  magnificence  around  them,  Britons 
sojourning  in  those  golden  climes  wearily  sigh  for  the  humble 
blossoms  that  scent  the  fields  of  their  native  land.  Who  does 
not  remember  the  tremendous  excitement  that  took  place  in 
Australia  upon  the  arrival  of  the  first  primrose  from  old  Eng- 
land t  What  conflicting  emotions  must  its  pallid  petals  have 
aroused  in  the  bosoms  of  many  of  its  beholders  !  what  mingled 
feelings  of  pleasure  and  pain  !  what  thoughts  of  the  bygone 
youth  passed  in  the  far-away  natal  isle,  must  have  been  stirred 
up  under  the  seeming  calmness  of  those  bronzed  countenances! 
Who  amongst  those  dwellers  in  that  distant  clime  but  would 
willingly  have  purchased  the  fragile  flowerling  with  the  loss  of 
the  most  superb  member  of  Australia's  floral  family ! 

Englishmen  strive  not  only  to  carry  their  manners  and 
customs  with  them  wherever  they  go,  but  many  of  them  even 
try  to  give  to  surrounding  nature  a  look  of  home — sweet  home — 
by  planting  native  flowers  and  shrubs  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
their  dwellings.  Sir  John  Hobhouse  is  said  to  have  discovered 
an  Englishman's  residence  on  the  shores  of  the  Hellespont  by 
the  character  of  the  surrounding  plants.  It  is  observed  that  an 
Anglo-Indian,  in  the  midst  of  all  his  Oriental  magnificence, 
deems  a  root  of  primroses  or  a  tuft  of  British  violets  one  of  the 
highest  luxuries  attainable. 

How  tenderly  does  the  great  Lord  Bacon,  in  his  quaintly 
beautiful  "  Essay  on  Gardening,"  recommend  these  gentle 
flowers,  "  for  they  aix  sweet,  and  prosper  in  the  shade,"  a  quality 
which  Mayne  also  notices  in  them: 

"  The  primrose,  tenant  of  the  glade, 
Emblem  of  virtue  in  the  shade." 

It  has  been  observed  of  poor  Clare  that  his  poems  are  as 
thickly  strewn  with  primroses  as  the  woodlands  themselves. 
In  his  "Village  Minstrel"  he  sings: 

**  Oh,  who  can  speak  his  joys  when  Spring's  young  mom 
From  wood  and  pasture  opened  on  his  view, 
When  tender  green  buds  blush  upon  the  thorn. 
And  the  first  primrose  dips  his  leaves  in  dew ! 

**  And  while  he  plucked  the  primrose  in  its  pride. 

He  pondered  o'er  its  bloom  'tween  joy  and  pain ; 
And  a  rude  sonnet  in  its  praise  he  tried. 

Where  nature's  simple  way  the  aid  of  art  supplied." 


Primrose.  265 


In  another  portion  of  his  artless  verse  he  tells,  how,  as  a 
child,  he  rambled  o'er  the  fields  for  flowers,  and 

"  Robbed  every  primrose-root  I  met, 
And  ofttimes  got  the  root  to  set ; 
And  joyful  home  each  nosegay  bore; 
And  felt — as  I  shall  feel  no  more." 

In  the  following  lines  the  old  poet,  Browne,  associates  this 
flower  with  a  scene  of  rustic  idle  thoughtlessness: 

*'  As  some  wayfaring  man,  passing  a  wood, 

Goes  jogging  on,  and  in  his  mind  nought  hath, 
But  how  the  primrose  finely  strews  the  path." 

And  the  sketch  is  suggestive  of  Wordsworth's  oft-quoted 
idea,  in  "Peter  Bell:" 

"  A  primrose  by  a  river's  brim 
A  yellow  primrose  was  to  him, 
And  it  was  nothing  more." 

To  Mrs.  Heman's  ever-faithful  muse,  however,  we  must  turn 
for  a  full  description  of  this  offspring  of  the  youthful  year,  and 
of  its  favourite  haunts  : 

"  I  saw  it  in  my  evening  walk,  *'  And  then,  methought,  with  bashful  pride 

A  little  lonely  flower ;  She  seemed  to  sit  and  look 

Under  a  hollow  bank  it  grew.  On  her  own  maiden  loveliness, 

Deep  in  a  mossy  bower.  Pale  imaged  in  the  brook. 

*'  An  oak's  gnarl'd  root  to  roof  the  cave    "  No  other  flower,  no  rival  grew 
With  gothic  fretwork  sprung,  Beside  my  pensive  maid  ; 

Whence  jewell'd  fern,  and  arum-leaves,    She  dwelt  alone,  a  cloister'd  nun, 
And  ivy  garlands  hung.  In  solitude  and  shade. 

*'  And  close  beneath  came  sparkling  out  *'  No  ruffling  wind  could  reach  her  there; 

From  an  old  tree's  fallen  shell  No  eye,  methought,  but  mine, 

A  little  rill  that  dipt  about  Or  the  young  lambs  that  came  to  drink, 

The  lady  in  her  cell.  Had  spied  her  secret  shrine. 

"  And  there  was  pleasantness  to  me 
In  such  belief — cold  eyes 
That  slight  dear  Nature's  loveliness, 
Profane  her  mysteries." 


(( 


Daisy. 

(INNOCENCE.) 

Whose  white  investments  figure  innocence." 


Shakspeare. 


THE  flower  which,  next  to  the  rose,  appears  to  have  re- 
ceived the  most  attention  from  the  poets  is  the  Daisy. 
It  may  seem  strange  that  a  Httle  scentless  floweret  hke  this 
should  have  obtained  so  many  plaudits  ;  but  Montgomery 
most  probably  guesses  the  real  cause  of  its  popularity  when 
he  sings 

*'  The  rose  has  but  a  Summer  reign; 
The  daisy  never  dies." 

Formerly  "the  poet's  darling"  was  termed  the  "e'e  of  dale," 
and  under  that  name  Chaucer  speaks  of  it;  by  the  time  the 
Elizabethan  school  arose,  it  was  known  as  the  "day's  eye," 
from  which  title  to  its  present  appellation  the  transition  was 
easy. 

This  little  "silver  shield"  is  known  to  the  French  as  Mar- 
guerite, or  "the  pearl;"  and  at  the  banquet  given  in  celebra- 
tion of  the  marriage  of  Charles  the  Bold  of  Burgundy  with  the 
Princess  Margaret  of  England,  its  name  allowed  it  to  be  made 
use  of  to  pay  a  very  pretty  compliment  to  the  princely  pair. 
Amongst  other  clever  automata  introduced  upon  the  occasion 
was  a  large  unicorn,  bearing  on  its  back  a  leopard,  emblema- 
tical of  the  supporters  of  the  two  nations:  the  latter  animal 
held  in  one  claw  the  standard  of  England,  and  in  the  other  a 
daisy,  or  Marguerite.  After  the  toy  had  gone  the  round  of 
the  tables,  one  of  the  stewards  took  the  little  blossom  from 
the  leopard's  claw,  and  presented  it,  with  a  laudatory  address, 
to  the  royal  bridegroom. 

According  to  the  classic  account,  this  little  flower  owed  its 


Daisy.  267 

origin  to  Belides,  one  of  the  dryads,  the  nymphs  who  presided 
over  woodlands.  It  is  fabled  that  whilst  this  damsel  was  dancing 
with  her  favoured  suitor,  Ephigeus,  she  attracted  the  attention 
of  Vertumnus,  the  guardian  deity  of  orchards;  and  it  was  in 
order  to  shelter  her  from  his  pursuit  that  she  was  transformed 
into  Bcellis,  or  the  daisy.  In  Macpherson's  exquisite  rendering 
of  Ossian,  there  is  a  passage  of  great  beauty,  wherein  a  yet 
more  celestial  origin  is  assigned  to  this  nestling  of  nature. 
The  grand  old  Gaelic  poet  feigns  that  the  daisy  was  first  sown 
above  a  baby's  grave  by  the  dimpled  hands  of  infantine  angels. 
Wordsworth,  in  some  fine  verses  to  the  daisy,  tells  us  how 
he  did  '*sit  at  ease  and  weave  a  web  of  similes,"  and  call  by 
"many  a  fond  and  idle  name"  this  tiny  twinkling  earth-star; 
he  compares  it  to 

*'  A  nun  demure,  of  lowly  port,  **  A  little  Cyclops,  with  one  eye, 

Or  sprightly  maiden  of  Love's  court.  Staring  to  threaten  and  defy; 

In  thy  simplicity  the  sport  That  thought  comes  next — and  instantly 

Of  all  temptations ;  The  freak  is  over. 

**  A  queen  in  crown  of  rubies  dress'd  ;  "  The  shape  will  vanish,  and  behold  ! 

A  starveling  in  a  scanty  vest ;  A  silver  shield  with  boss  of  gold. 

Are  all,  as  seem  to  suit  thee  best,  That  spreads  itself,  some  fairy  bold 

Thy  appellations.  In  fight  to  cover." 

Many  other  poets  have  likened  the  daisy  to  various  other 
sweet  things — real  and  ideal.  In  France,  lovers,  who  evi- 
dently believe  with  poor  L.  E.  L.  that  "  flowers  were  made  for 
Love's  interpreters,"  use  it  for  the  prognostication  of  their  fu- 
ture lot,  in  the  following  manner  :  gathering  a  daisy,  they  com- 
mence plucking  its  leaflets  ofT,  saying  with  each  one,  "  Does 
he  love  me  i* — a  little — much — passionately — not  at  all !"  and 
as  the  floret  decides,  such  will  be  the  lot  of  the  experimen- 
talist. In  England  the  marygold,  and  in  Germany  the  star- 
flower  or  aster,  is  generally  used  for  a  similar  purpose. 

"The  daisy's  for  simplicity  and   unaffected  air,"  remarks 

Robert  Burns,  in  "The  Posie,"  of  which  collection  of  floral 

emblems  Professor  Wilson  states  that  Meleager's  "  Heliodora's 

Garland  "  is  a  prototype,  so  true  is  it  that  there  is  nothing  new 

'Under  the  sun. 

In  the  days  of  chivalry,  a  knight,  when  an  accepted  lover, 
was  permitted  by  his  ladye  faire  to  engrave  a  daisy  upon  his 
arms ;  but  when  the  damsel  would  not  give  an  "  ay"  or  a  "  nay  " 


268  Daisy. 

to  his  suit,  but  rather  preferred  to  "tarry  longer  in  love's 
flowery  way,"  she  wreathed  her  head  with  a  coronet  of  wild 
daisies,  to  intimate  that  she  would  think  of  it. 

A  young  poetess  of  considerable  promise,  and  to  whose  un- 
timely death  we  have  already  had  occasion  to  allude,  on  the 
last  time  she  ever  used  her  pen,  composed  the  following  affect- 
ing address  to  daisies : 

'•  Thick  set  the  English  daisies  grow, 
Tlie  close  fresh  turf  between; 
On  breezy  downs,  on  meadows  low, 
In  lawns,  upon  the  banked  hedgerow, 
Star- white,  'mid  pastures  green. 

**  Daisies  that  flower  in  gardens  neat, 

And  archly  gay  and  bright, 
Outvie  with  cultured  prim  conceit 
Their  paler  sisters,  wild  and  sweet. 

With  blossoms  red  and  white. 

'*  Braving  in  the  young  year  the  rains  / 

And  cold,  with  gentle  duty. 
Daisies  they  wait  for  Summer  gains, 
And  win  them— nought  of  Spring  remains, 

Saving  their  simple  beauty. 

**  Outliving  all  blue  violet  bands, 

And  ev'ry  early  comer. 
Till  children  thread  with  sun-browned  hands 
The  daisy-chains  from  flow'ring  lands 

In  the  sunny  days  of  Summer. 

•*  Daisies,  they  live  in  deathless  rhymes 
'Mid  songs  by  poets  given ; 
Nor  blight  nor  Winter  mar  their  chimes ; 
Merrily  live  for  future  times, 
Fadeless  as  flower  in  heaven." 

Ella  Ingram. 


Thistle. 

(INDEPENDENCE.) 
*'The  thistle  shall  bloom  on  the  bed  of  the  brave." 


Anon. 


AS  the  national  emblem  of  Scotia,  the  TJiistle  has  been 
celebrated,  far  and  wide,  by  the  many  bards  of  its 
brave  people.  Some  florigraphists  have  used  this  symbol  of 
independence  as  the  representative  of  surliness,  because  the 
motto — Nemo  me  mipicne  lacessit,  "  Nobody  molests  me  with 
impunity  " — is  combined  with  the  blossom  of  the  thistle  in  the 
decoration  of  the  Scottish  order  named  after  this  plant,  as, 
indeed,  it  is  in  all  the  national  emblems. 

The  motto,  however,  is  scarcely  so  appropriate  for  this  token- 
flower  as  it  would  be  for  some  of  its  well-armed  relatives,  the 
thistle  which  is  really  depicted  upon  the  Scottish  badges  being 
the  Melancholy  Thistle,  a  far  less  dangerous  foe  than  others 
of  the  family.  There  is  some  little  doubt  as  to  how  this  flower 
was  first  adopted  by  the  Scottish  race,  some  patriotic  authors 
going  back  to  the  days  of  the  Picts  in  order  to  trace  the  origin 
of  its  use,  and  adducing  a  romantic  legend  in  proof  of  the 
antiquity  of  the  custom.  Be  this  as  it  may,  the  Plantagenets 
were  not  prouder  of  the  broom  than  were  the  Stuarts  of  their 
thistle ;  and  princes  of  the  royal  house  were  wont  to  wear  the 
Chias-an-pheidJi,  as  it  is  called  in  Gaelic,  with  all  the  respect 
that  its  presumed  antique  and  honourable  history  entitled  it 
to.  The  poets  of  Scotland  are  ever  ready  to  pay  it  homage, 
and  the  following  thoroughly  characteristic  poem,  to  be  found 
in  Hogg's  "Jacobite  Relics,"  is  supposed  to  have  been  written 
by  the  Ettrick  Shepherd  himself : 

*'  Let  them  boast  of  the  country  gave  Patrick  his  fame, 
Of  the  land  of  the  ocean  and  Anglian  name, 

With  the  red  blushing  roses  and  shamrock  so  green ; 


27©  Thistle. 

Far  dearer  to  me  are  the  hills  of  the  North, 
The  land  of  blue  mountains,  the  birthplace  of  worth ; 
Those  mountains. where  Freedom  has  fixed  her  abode, 
Those  wide-spreading  glens  where  no  slave  ever  trode. 
Where  blooms  the  red  heather  and  thistle  so  green. 

**  Though  rich  be  the  soil  where  blossoms  the  rose. 
And  barren  the  mountains  and  covered  with  snows 

Where  blooms  the  red  heather  and  thistle  so  green ; 
Yet  for  friendship  sincere,  and  for  loyalty  true, 
And  for  courage  so  bold  which  no  foe  could  subdue, 
Unmatched  is  our  country,  unrivall'd  our  swains, 
And  lovely  and  true  are  the  nymphs  on  our  plains. 

Where  rises  the  thistle,  the  thistle  so  green. 

**  Far-famed  are  our  sires  in  the  battles  of  yore, 
And  many  the  caimies  that  rise  on  our  shore 

O'er  the  foes  of  the  land  of  the  thistle  so  green; 
And  many  a  caimie  shall  rise  on  our  strand. 
Should  the  torrent  of  war  ever  burst  on  our  land. 
Let  foe  come  on  foe,  as  wave  comes  on  wave. 
We  '11  give  them  a  welcome,  we  '11  give  them  a  grave 

Beneath  the  red  heather  and  thistle  so  green. 

•*  Oh,  dear  to  our  souls  as  the  blessings  of  Heaven 
Is  the  freedom  we  boast,  is  the  land  that  we  live  in, 

The  land  of  red  heather,  and  thistle  so  green ; 
For  that  land  and  that  freedom  our  fathers  have  bled, 
And  we  swear  by  the  blood  that  our  fathers  have  shed. 
No  foot  of  a  foe  shall  e'er  tread  on  their  grave ; 
But  the  thistle  shall  bloom  on  the  bed  of  the  brave, 

The  thistle  of  Scotland,  the  thistle  so  green." 

There  appears  to  be  no  proof  of  this  sturdy  flower  having 
been  adopted  as  the  symbol  of  Scotland  earlier  than  the  middle 
of  the  fifteenth  century,  when  a  puritanic  council  held  a  solemn 
consultation  within  the  walls  of  the  old  Council-house  at  Edin- 
burgh as  to  the  advisability  of  erasing  the  papistic  figure  of  St. 
Giles — which  for  so  many  centuries  had  been  triumphantly 
borne  through  the  battle  and  the  breeze — from  the  old  standard : 
religious  animosity  gained  the  day,  and  the  time-honoured 
figure  of  the  saint  was  replaced  by  the  melancholy  thistle. 

Old  Culpepper  indulges  in  some  of  his  usual  quaint  and 
querulous  humbug  over  this  particular  member  of  the  thistle 
family.  "It  is,"  he  says,  "  under  Capricorn,  and  therefore  under 
both  Saturn  and  Mars :  one  rids  melancholy  by  sympathy,  the 
other  by  antipathy.  Their  virtues  are  but  few,  but  those  are 
not  to  be  despised;  for  the  decoction  of  the  thistle  in  wine  being 
drank,  expels  superfluous  melancholy  out  of  the  body,  and 


Thistle.  '  271 

makes  a  man  as  merry  as  a  cricket.  Superfluous  melancholy 
causeth  care,  fear,  sadness,  despair,  envy,  and  many  more  evils 
besides;  but  religion  teaches  us  to  wait  upon  God's  providence, 
and  cast  our  care  upon  Him  that  careth  for  us.  What  a  fine 
thing  were  it  if  men  and  women  could  live  so!  and  yet  seven 
years'  care  and  fear  makes  a  man  never  the  wiser  nor  a  farthing 
the  richer.  Discorides  saith, '  the  root  borne  about  one  doth  the 
like,  and  removes  all  diseases  of  melancholy.'  Modern  writers 
laugh  at  him;  'let  them  laugh  that  win;'  my  opinion  is,  that 
it  is  the  best  remedy  against  all  diseases  that  grow;  they  that 
please  may  use  it." 

There !  after  all,  one  may  get  a  grain  or  two  of  corn  out  of 
the  old  astrologer's  chaff,  despite  his  leaving  us  in  doubt  as 
to  whether  laughter,  or  thistle-root,  supplies  his  panacea.  The 
Spear  Thistle  has  been  termed  the  emblem  of  beneficence,  be- 
cause, says  a  botanical  writer,  "  if  a  heap  of  clay  be  thrown 
up,  nothing  would  grow  upon  it  for  many  years,  were  it  not 
that  the  seeds  of  this  friendly  plant,  wafted  thither  by  the 
wind,  speedily  vegetate,  and,  throwing  wide  their  deep  green 
leaves,  which  are  cotton  underneath  and  hairy  above,  form  a 
cover  for  lesser  plants.  Beautiful  flowers  soon  mantle  the 
otherwise  unsightly  heap  of  clay;  the  small  blue  forget-me- 
not,  the  mouse-ear  hawkweed,  one  of  the  loveliest  of '  Flora's 
watches,'  with  her  numerous  relatives  of  wood  and  wall;  the 
eye-bright  and  wild  bugle  grow  there  profusely,  as  also  many 
a  meek-eyed  sister,  who  peeps  from  beneath  the  leaves  of  the 
guardian  thistle." 


The   Lily. 

(MAJESTY.) 

ALTHOUGH  this  flower — dedicated  to  Juno,  Queen  of 
Heaven — is  generally  deemed  typical  of  majesty,  there 
are  many  varied  meanings  given  to  the  numerous  members  of 
its  family,  and  such  significations  will  be  either  pointed  out 
separately  under  their  respective  headings,  or  will  be  found 
altogether  in  their  proper  place  at  the  end  of  this  volume. 

The  Lily  is  held  in  high  esteem  by  many  for  the  frequency 
with  which  it  is  alluded  to  in  the  Scriptures.  The  Jews  enter- 
tained a  great  admiration  for  its  elegant  form,  which  they 
imitated  in  the  decorations  of  their  first  magnificent  Temple ; 
and  Christ  Himself  told  them  to  "  consider  the  lilies  of  the 
field,"  describing  them  to  His  listeners  as  more  glorious  in  their 
unadorned  simplicity  than  was  their  favourite  monarch  Solo- 
mon, when  arrayed  in  all  his  most  gorgeous  apparel.  Horace 
Smith  thus  avails  himself  of  the  text  : 

*'  'Thou  wert  not,  Solomon!  in  all  thy  glory, 

Arrayed,'  the  lilies  cry,  'in  robes  like  ours.' 
How  vain  their  grandeur !  ah,  how  transitory 
Are  human  flowers  ! " 

The  varieties  of  this  graceful  flower  are  extremely  numerous, 
although,  according  to  the  old  fabulists,  originally  there  was 
only  one  kind  of  lily,  and  that  was  orange-coloured.  They 
give  some  marvellous  stories  to  account  for  its  many  shapes 
and  tints,  which,  now-a-days,  are  as  varied  as  are  the  hues  of 
the  rainbow.  One  legend  tells  that  Jove,  being  desirous  of 
rendering  the  infant  Hercules  immortal,  caused  Somnus  to 
prepare  a  nectareous  sleeping-draught,  which  he  administered 
to  Juno,  who  soon  fell  into  a  profound  slumber.  Whilst  the 
Mother  of  the  Gods  was  in  this  condition,  Jove  placed  the 
babe  to  her  breast,  in  order  that  it  might  imbibe  the  divine 


The  Lily. 


273 


milk  that  would  ensure  its  immortality.  The  little  Hercules, 
in  his  over-eagerness,  drew  the  milk  too  quickly,  and  some 
drops  falling  to  the  earth,  the  white  lily,  emblematical  oi purity, 
immediately  sprang  up. 

Throughout  Spain  and  Italy  the  white  lily  is  emblematic  of 
the  Virgin's  purity,  and  is  frequently  used  to  decorate  her 
shrine  :  in  nearly  every  Catholic  country  it  is  especially  dedi- 
cated to  her. 

It  is  stated  that  the  ladies  upon  the  continent  have  held  in 
high  favour,  for  many  years,  a  certain  cosmetic  prepared  from 
the  blossoms  of  this  lily,  and  amongst  Orientals  it  is  cherished, 
not  only  on  account  of  its  variety  and  beauty  of  colour,  but 
also  for  the  sake  of  the  exquisite  perfume  yielded  by  many 
members  of  its  species. 

Moore,  in  "  Lalla  Rookh,"  finds  occasion  to  deduce  many 
sweet  similes  from  the  lily  tribe,  and,  amongst  others,  from  the 
glorious  Persian  Lily,  celebrated  for  its  gorgeous  golden  hue, 
and  from  the  Indian  lotus,  famous  for  its  bright  roseate  tint. 

The  Victoria  Regina,  so  named  by  Dr.  Lindley  in  honour 
of  the  Queen,  may  be  considered  as  the  most  magnificent  of 
all  lilies,  if  not,  indeed,  of  all  flowers.  Its  gorgeous,  snowy, 
blush-tinted  blossoms  attain  four  feet,  and  its  enormous  leaves 
eighteen  feet  of  circumference !  No  typical  meaning  has  as 
yet  been  assigned  to  this  suberb  flower,  doubtless  from  the 
fact  of  its  great  size  precluding  all  idea  of  its  being  used  for 
any  human  decorative  purpose. 

That  the  lily  anciently  grew  in  Egypt  is  testified  by  the 
hieroglyphics,  among  which  it  appears.  It  was  doubtless  full 
of  meaning  to  those  wise  Egyptians,  as  it  was  to  the  ancients 
generally.  The  fact  of  its  hieroglyphical  representation  is 
sufficient  to  prove  this  ;  for  these  picture  words  are  all 
fraught  with  deep  significance,  although  many  of  them  are 
hard  to  comprehend,  the  most  learned  difl'ering  as  to  their 
real  import. 

An  heraldic  work,  published  in  France,  gives  the  following 
singular  and  interesting  account  of  the  lily  as  an  emblem  :  It 
is  the  symbol  of  divinity,  of  purity,  of  abundance,  and  of  love  ; 
most  complete  in  perfection,  charity,  and  benediction  ;  as  that 
mirror  of  chastity,  Susanna,  is  defined  Susa,  which  signifies  the 
*'  lily-flower,"  the  chief  city  of  the  Persians  bearing  that  name 

18 


2  74  The  Lily. 

for  excellency.  Hence  the  lily's  three  leaves,  in  the  arms  of 
France,  meaneth  piety,  justice,  and  charity.  The  following 
pretty  legend  is  related,  and  devoutly  believed  in,  by  the  in- 
habitants of  the  Hartz  Mountains,  of  the  night-blooming  lily 
of  Lauenberg. 

Beautiful  Alice  dwelt  with  her  widowed  mother  in  a  small 
cottage  at  the  foot  of  the  Hartz  Mountains.  Her  principal 
occupation  was  that  of  gathering  forest  straw — that  is,  the 
foliage  of  the  pine  and  fir  tribe,  which  is  very  much  used  in 
certain  parts  of  Germany  as  a  stuffing  for  beds,  &c.  Thus  was 
the  pretty  maiden  occupied  when  the  lord  of  Lauenberg 
Castle  rode  by.  With  wily  words  he  extolled  her  looks,  and 
swore  that  she  was  too  pretty  a  blossom  to  be  hid  in  a  peasant's 
humble  cot,  and  begged  her  to  come  and  dwell  in  his  lordly 
castle,  where  she  would  have  nothing  to  do  but  command,  and 
where  all  would  obey  her  commands. 

The  simple  girl  was  dazzled  by  the  brilliant  prospect,  but, 
true  in  her  simplicity,  flew  to  her  mother,  and  related  all  that 
had  transpired.  The  terrified  mother  wept  bitterly  over  her 
darling's  communication ;  for  too  well  she  knew  the  character 
of  Lauenberg's  dissolute  baron.  Hastily  packing  up  her  few 
household  treasures,  she  carried  off  her  wondering  and  sorrow- 
ful child  to  the  shelter  of  a  neighbouring  convent,  within  whose 
sacred  walls  she  believed  poor  Alice  might  rest  in  security. 
Not  long,  however,  had  the  simple  country  girl  been  immured 
in  the  holy  edifice  before  the  enraged  nobleman  discovered  her 
retreat,  and,  determined  to  obtain  his  prey,  assembled  his 
vassals,  forced  an  entrance  into  the  convent,  and,  seizing  the 
object  of  his  licentious  passion,  bore  her,  half  dead  withdread, 
to  his  castle. 

On  arriving,  at  midnight,  in  the  garden  in  front  of  his  em- 
battled dwelling,  he  alighted  with  his  senseless  burden  in  his 
arms  ;  but,  as  he  attempted  to  enter  the  castle,  the  guardian 
spirits  of  the  place  snatched  the  poor  maiden  out  of  his  grasp, 
and  on  the  very  spot  where  her  feet  had  been,  sprang  up  the 
beautiful  lily  of  Lauenberg. 

The  annual  appearance  of  the  lily  at  midnight  is  anxiously 
looked  forward  to  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  Hartz,  and  many 
of  them  are  said  to  perform  a  nightly  pilgrimage  to  see  it, 
returning  to  their  homes  overpowered  with  its  dazzling  beauty, 


The  Lily.  275 

and  asserting  that  its  splendour  is  so  great  that  it  sheds  beams 
of  light  on  the  valley  below. 

The  following  affecting  sketch,  in  which  the  lily  plays  a 
part,  is  given  by  Lady  Herbert,  in  her  "Impressions  of  Spain." 
"  In  a  cemetery  near  Seville  is  a  very  beautiful  though  simple 
marble  cross,  on  which  is  engraved  these  lines  in  Spanish: 

*  I  believe  in  God ; 
I  hope  for  God ; 
I  love  God.' 

It  is  the  grave  of  a  poor  boy,  the  only  son  of  a  widow.  He 
was  not  exactly  an  idiot,  but  what  people  call  a  natural.  Good, 
simple,  humble,  every  one  loved  him;  but  no  one  could  teach 
him  anything.  .  .  He  could  remember  nothing.  In  vain  the 
poor  mother  put  him  first  at  school,  and  then  to  a  trade;  he 
could  not  learn.  At  last,  in  despair,  she  took  him  to  a  neigh- 
bouring monastery,  and  implored  the  abbot,  who  was  a  most 
charitable  man,  to  take  him  in  and  treat  him  as  a  lay  brother. 
Touched  by  her  grief,  the  abbot  consented,  and  the  boy  entered 
the  convent.  There  all  possible  pains  were  taken  by  the  monks 
to  give  him  at  least  some  ideas  of  religion,  but  he  could  re- 
member nothing  but  these  three  sentences.  Still  he  was  so 
patient,  so  laborious,  and  so  good,  that  the  community  decided 
to  keep  him. 

When  he  had  finished  his  hard  out-of-door  work,  instead  of 
coming  in  to  rest,  he  would  go  straight  to  the  church,  and  there 
remain  on  his  knees  for  hours.  *But  what  does  he  do.-^'  ex- 
claimed one  of  the  novices;  *he  does  not  know  how  to  pray.' 
.  .  They  therefore  hid  themselves  in  a  side  chapel,  close  to 
where  he  came  in.  Devoutly  kneeling,  with  clasped  hands, 
and  his  eyes  fastened  on  the  tabernacle,  he  did  nothing  but 
repeat  over  and  over  again, '  I  believe  in  God;  I  hope  for  God, 
I  love  God.'  One  day  he  was  missing  ;  they  went  to  his  cell, 
and  found  him  dead  on  the  straw,  with  his  hands  joined,  and 
an  expression  of  the  same  ineffable  peace  and  joy  they  had 
remarked  on  his  face  when  in  the  church.  They  buried  him  in 
this  quiet  cemetery,  and  the  abbot  caused  these  words  to  be 
graven  on  the  cross.  Soon  a  lily  (emblem  of  innocence)  was 
seen  flowering  by  the  grave,  whereon  it  had  been  sown:  the 
grave  was  opened,  and  the  root  of  the  flower  was  found  in  tJie 
heart  of  the  orphan  boy." 


MOONWORT. 

(FORGETFULNESS.) 

THIS  flower  is  no  less  famed  for  the  singularity  of  its 
associated  legends  than  for  the  quaintness  of  its  names. 
It  is  frequently  called  Honesty,  which  name  is  supposed  to 
have  been  given  it  because  of  the  transparency  of  the  partition 
of  the  seed-vessel;  it  has  been  known  as  Silver-bloom  and 
Satin-flower,  probably  on  account  of  the  glossy  and  silvery 
look  of  this  seed-vessel.  In  France  it  is  frequently  called  Herbe 
aux  Lunettes^  from  the  fancied  resemblance  of  this  portion  of 
the  plant  to  the  oval  glass  of  a  pair  of  spectacles;  and  lastly, 
it  was  formerly  termed  in  England,  and  still  is  in  many  parts 
of  Europe,  Lunaria,  which  is  nothing  more  than  a  Latinized 
form  of  Moonwort,  the  appellation  by  which  it  is  now  recog- 
nized, and  which,  like  all  its  many  cognomens,  is  derived  from 
a  peculiarity  of  the  seed-vessel,  the  form  of  which  is  considered 
to  resemble  that  of  the  full  moon. 

This  little  lilac  flower  has  for  many  generations  been  deemed 
typical  oi  for  get  fulness.  Rene,  Duke  of  Baraud-Lorraine,  having 
been  taken  prisoner  at  the  battle  of  Toulongeon,  is  said  to  have 
personally  painted  a  sprig  of  moonwort,  and  to  have  had  it  con- 
veyed to  his  vassals,  as  a  reproach  to  them  for  their  dilatoriness 
in  effecting  his  deliverance. 

Culpepper,  in  his  ridiculous  old  "  Herbal,"  says,  "  Moonwort 
is  a  herb  which,  they  say,  will  open  locks  and  unshoe  such 
horses  as  tread  upon  it :  this  some  laugh  to  scorn,  and  those 
no  small  fools  neither;  but  country  people  that  I  know  call  it 
*  unshoe  the  horse.'  Besides,"  adds  the  old  rascal,  "  I  have  heard 
commanders  say,  that  on  White  Downs,  in  Devonshire,  near 
Tiverton,  there  were  found  thirty  horse-shoes,  pulled  off  from 
the  Earl  of  Essex's  horses,  being  there  drawn  up  in  a  body, 


MOONWORT. 


277 


many  of  them  being  newly  shod,  and  no  reason  known,  which 
caused  much  admiration  [doubtless] ;  and  the  herb  described 
usually  grows  upon  heaths." 

After  such  testimony,  it  cannot  excite  surprise  that  magical 
properties  were  assigned  to  this  plant ;  thus  Drayton  says : 

*'  Enchanting  lunarie  here  lies, 
In  sorceries  excelhng." 

Chaucer  also  alludes  to  its  use  in  incantations,  whilst  other 
ancient  authors  considered  that  amongst  its  virtues  might  be 
reckoned  the  power  of  curing  insanity. 

The  singular  seed-vessels  for  which  the  plant  is  now  chiefly 
noticed,  are  frequently  dried  and  preserved  for  use  with  ama- 
ranths, xeranthemums,  and  other  immortelles. 


-^Mm>-^ 


(«h)V<>e) 


The    Crown    Imperial. 

(POWER.) 

"This  lily's  height  bespeaks  command, 
A  fair,  imperial  flower  ; 
She  seems  designed  for  Flora's  hand, 
The  sceptre  of  her  power." 

Anon. 

THIS  stately  scion  of  the  lily  family  is  significant  oi power. 
The  flowers  are  formed  by  a  circle  of  tulip-shaped 
corollas  turned  downwards,  which  have  the  appearance  of  so 
many  gay  bells,  the  stigma  answering  for  the  clapper ;  the 
whole  is  crowned  by  a  coma  or  tuft  of  green  leaves,  which 
gives  to  it  a  singular  and  agreeable  effect.  Each  of  the  bells 
contains  some  drops  of  water,  which  adhere  to  the  bottom  of 
the  corolla  till  it  withers. 

The  French,  who  seem  to  pay  delicate  compliments  by 
instinct,  have  the  following  pretty  little  story  appertaining  to 
florigraphy,  in  which  this  superb  blossom  plays  a  prominent 
part :  The  Duke  de  Montausier  was  married  to  Mademoiselle 
de  Rambouillet  on  New  Year's  Day,  1634,  and  on  the  morning 
of  the  bridal  the  duke  placed  upon  the  bride's  dressing-table 
a  magnificently-bound  book,  on  the  vellum  leaves  of  which 
were  painted  from  nature,  by  the  most  eminent  native  artists, 
a  series  of  all  the  most  beautiful  European  flowers.  Appro- 
priate verses  for  each  bloom  were  written  by  famous  French 
poets,  and  elaborately  emblazoned  on  their  respective  pages. 
The  chief  poem  in  the  collection  was  contributed  by  Chapelain, 
who  chose  the  Crown  Imperial  Lily  for  his  theme,  representing 
it  as  having  sprung  from  the  blood  of  Gustavus  Adolphus  when 
he  fell  mortally  wounded  on  the  field  of  Liitzen.  This  was 
intended  more  as  a  compliment  to  the  bride  than  to  the 
Swedish  hero,  of  whose  character  the  lady  was  an  intense  ad- 
mirer. This  splendid  wedding  gift,  which  was  named  after  its 
fair  recipient,  "Julia's  Garland,"  is  said  to  have  been  sold  at 
the  disposal  of  the  Duke  de  la  VaiUiere's  effects  in  1784,  to 
an  Englishman,  for  upwards  of  ;^6oo. 

A  very  rare  member  of  this  imperial  family  grows  wild  in 
Britain.     It  is  sometimes  called  the  Mourning  Widow. 


Mignonette. 

(YOUR    QUALITIES    SURPASS    YOUR    CHARMS.) 

THE  Mignonette^  the  "  little  darling"  of  our  French  neigh- 
bours, has  an  extremely  appropriate  signification  in 
floral  caligraphy,  viz.,  yoicr  qualities  sicrpass  your  charms  ;  but 
as  it  is  very  dubious  as  to  how  many  of  Eve's  fair  daughters 
would  now-a-days  care  to  have  so  double-faced  a  compliment 
paid  them,  it  behoves  all  young  wouid-be  Benedicts  to  be  wary 
how,  and  to  whom,  they  present  the  flowerling. 

Said  to  have  been  introduced  into  England  from  Egypt  little 
more  than  a  century  ago,  it  has  fraternized  so  well  with  our 
climate  that  it  may  now  be  seen  in  every  nook  and  corner  of 
the  land,  and  is  discovered  scattering  fragrance  and  floral  re- 
miniscences in  the  dirtiest  of  our  alleys  and  the  dingiest  of  our 
city  courts. 

"Bland,  fragant  flower !  from  morn  till  eve  "  The  artisan  in  attic  pent, 

That  scents  the  Summer  day  The  weaver  at  his  loom, 

To  many  a  home,  which  but  for  thee  The  captive  in  his  prison  cell. 

No  flower  would  e'er  survey.  Each  hail  and  bless  thy  bloom." 

A  celebrated  gardener,  speaking  of  this  flower,  and  of  the 
delightful  odour  which  it  diffuses,  states  that  "  as  it  grows  more 
readily  in  pots,  its  fragrance  may  be  conveyed  into  the  house. 
Its  perfume — though  not  so  refreshing,  perhaps,  as  that  of  the 
sweetbriar — is  not  apt  to  ofl"end  the  most  delicate  olfactories." 
Offend,  indeed  !  one  would  think  not !  Why,  the  great  Lin- 
naeus himself  compared  its  fragrance  to  the  scent  of  heavenly 
ambrosia  1  As  for  growing  it  in  pots,  people  are  not  contented 
with  that,  and  it  is  more  frequently  seen  cradled  in  the  sun's 
golden    light  in  boxes  occupying  the  whole   length  of  the 

window  :  *<  The  sashes  fronted  with  a  range 

Of  the  fragrant  weed, 
The  Frenchman's  darling  ;  " 

or,  as  that  gallant  nation,  more  courteous  than  Cowper,  the 
author  of  those  words,  frequently  name  it,  the  "  love  flower." 
Ah  !  't  was  not  given  to  every  poet  "  to  win  the  secret  of  a 
weed's  plain  heart,"  as  Lowell  sweetly  sings. 


Ash. 

(GRANDEUR.) 

"All  know  that  in  the  woods  the  ash  reigns  queen, 
In  graceful  beauty  soaring  to  the  sky." 

Garcilasso. 

OF  all  known  trees,  the  As/i  is  most  noted  for  its  manifold 
mythological  and  classic  associations  in  non-botanical 
works ;  and  in  its  legendary  connections,  it  is  so  frequently 
confounded  with  the  mountain-ash,  or  rowan-tree,  that,  de- 
spite their  not  being  in  any  way  related,  their  merits  must  be 
here  taken  in  conjunction. 

In  the  Scandinavian  "  Edda  "  this  tree  fills  a  very  important 
post :  it  is  therein  stated  that  the  Court  of  the  Gods  is  held 
under  a  mighty  ash,  the  summit  of  which  reaches  the  heavens, 
the  branches  overshadow  the  whole  earth,  and  the  roots  pene- 
trate to  the  infernal  regions.  Upon  the  summit  of  this  Norse 
"  cloud-tree,"  perches  an  eagle,  overlooking  and  observant  of 
all  creation  ;  to  this  exalted  bird  a  squirrel  is  continually 
ascending  in  order  to  acquaint  it  with  such  things  as  may 
have  escaped  its  notice.  Round  its  mighty  trunk  are  twined 
serpents ;  and  from  its  roots  issue  two  fountains,  in  one  of 
which  is  concealed  wisdom,  and  in  the  other,  a  knowledge  of 
futurity.  Three  attendant  maidens  are  constantly  sprinkling 
the  leaves  of  this  tree  with  water  from  the  mystic  fountains, 
and  this  water,  falling  to  the  earth  in  the  shape  of  dew,  pro- 
duces honey. 

This  marvellous  old  allegory  boasts  of  impenetrable  an- 
tiquity, and  writers  trace  its  origin  back  into  the  misty  times 
of  the  somewhat  mythical  Aryan  race. 

According  to  the  Norse  tradition,  it  was  out  of  the  wood  of 
the  ash  that  man  was  first  formed  ;  and  it  is  another  curious 
proof  in  behalf  of  the  common  origin  of  all  literatures,  both 


Ash.  281 

sacred  and  secular,  that  we  find  similar  fables  existing  amongst 
the  Greeks.  Hesiod  deduces  his  brazen  race  of  men  from  the 
ash,  the  tree  generally  deemed  by  his  countrymen  an  image 
of  the  clouds  and  the  mother  of  men. 

It  is  considered  that  the  Christmas-tree  of  the  Germans, 
recently  imported  into  this  country,  originated  in  this  myth- 
ical ash. 

The  knowledge  that  the  Druids  evinced  a  great  veneration 
for  the  mountain-ash  is  almost  sufficient  explanation  of  the 
many  superstitious  observances  with  which  it  is  still  connected 
in  Great  Britain,  there  being  little  doubt  that  the  chief  portion 
of  such  rustic  ceremonies  are  only  the  remnants  of  Druidic 
customs.  It  has  been  observed  that  a  stump  of  this  tree  is 
often  discovered  within  or  near  the  circle  of  a  Druid  temple, 
whose  rites  were  formerly  practised  beneath  its  sacred  shade. 

Lightfoot  remarks  that  in  these  Druidic  circles  in  North 
Britain,  this  tree  is  discovered  more  frequently  than  any  other, 
and  that,  even  now,  pieces  of  it  are  carried  about  by  supersti- 
tious people  in  the  belief  that  it  will  preserve  them  from  the 
powers  of  witchcraft.  The  same  writer  also  remarks  that  in 
many  parts  of  the  Highlands  of  Scotland,  when  a  child  is  born, 
the  nurse  inserts  one  end  of  a  green  stick  of  this  tree  into  the 
fire,  and  while  it  is  burning,  gathers  in  a  spoon  the  juice  which 
oozes  forth  at  the  other  end,  and  administers  it  to  the  new- 
born infant  as  its  first  spoonful  of  food. 

Ancient  writers  of  many  lands  allude  to  the  supposed  respect 
or  dread  entertained  by  serpents  for  the  ash.  Pliny  states  that 
if  a  serpent  be  partially  surrounded  by  a  fire,  and  partly  by 
ashen  twigs,  it  will  prefer  to  run  through  the  fire  to  passing 
over  the  pieces  of  ash.  Respecting  this  fallacy,  Culpepper 
says  that  "  the  contrary  to  which  is  the  truth,  as  both  my  eyes 
are  witness."  Evelyn  also  takes  trouble  to  contradict  the 
marvel,  stating  that  it  "  is  an  old  imposture  of  Pliny's,  who 
either  took  it  up  upon  trust,  or  we  mistake  the  tree."  Cowley, 
in  his  poem  on  "  Plants,"  amongst  other  prodigies  alludes  to 


this :  « 


But  that  which  gave  more  wonder  than  the  rest, 

Within  an  ash,  a  serpent  built  her  nest, 

And  laid  her  eggs ;  when  once  to  come  beneath 

The  very  shadow  of  an  ash  was  death : 

Rather,  if  chance  should  force,  she  through  the  fire 

From  its  fallen  leaves,  so  baneful,  would  retire;" 


282  A  SB. 

And,  as  his  authority,  the  poet  adds : 

"For  truth  hereof,  take  Pliny's  word," 

— a  thing,  however,  which  few  who  know  the  extent  of  that 
gentleman's  veracity  would  feel  inclined  to  do. 

Sannazaro  says,  "  Serpents  always  avoid  the  shade  of  the 
ash  ;  so  that  if  a  fire  and  a  serpent  be  placed  within  a  circle 
of  ash-leaves,  the  serpent,  to  avoid  the  ash,  will  even  run  into 
the  midst  of  the  fire." 

In  days  of  yore  the  wood  of  this  tree  was  used  for  spears. 
The  lance  with  which  Achilles  killed  Hector  was  of  ash,  by 
which  circumstance,  Rapin  and  others  considered  that  the  tree 
became  ennobled. 

**  The  ash  for  nothing  ill," 

as  Spenser  says,  also  furnished  Cupid  with  wood  for  his  arrows, 
before  he  learnt  to  use  the  more  fatal  cypress. 

Many  curious  figures  are  said  to  have  been  discovered  in 
the  wood  of  the  ash.  A  gentleman  in  Oxfordshire  was  said  to 
possess  a  dining-table  made  of  this  wood,  representing  figures 
of  men,  beasts,  and  fish  ;  and  in  Holland,  an  ash  being  cleft, 
discovered  the  forms  of  a  chalice,  a  priest's  alb,  his  stole,  and 
several  other  pontifical  vestments. 

Evelyn  mentions  that  in  some  parts  of  England  the  country 
people  split  young  ashes,  and  pass  children  through  the  open- 
ing, in  the  belief  that  it  will  cure  their  disorder ;  and  the  Rev. 
W.  Bree,  some  few  years  ago  related  an  instance,  within  his 
personal  knowledge,  of  the  strange  superstition  having  been 
recently  practised  in  Warwickshire. 

Miss  Kent  speaks  of  another  extraordinary  custom  that 
rustics  have  :  they  bore  a  hole  in  an  ash-tree,  and  imprison  a 
shrew-mouse  in  it ;  a  few  strokes  given  with  a  branch  of  that 
tree  is  then  deemed  a  sovereign  remedy  for  cramps  and  lame- 
ness in  cattle,  which  the  harmless  little  animal  is  ignorantly 
supposed  to  cause. 

Evelyn  says  the  ash  was  reputed  so  sacred  in  Wales,  that 
there  was  not  a  churchyard  in  his  time  that  did  not  contain 
one,  and  that  on  a  certain  day  in  the  year  every  person  wore 
a  cross  made  of  the  wood.  "It  is  reputed,"  he  says,  "to  be 
preservative  against  fascination  and  evil  spirits,  whence,  per- 


Ash. 


283 


haps,  we  call  it  '  witchen  ; '  the  boughs  being  stuck  about  the 
door,  or  used  for  walking-staves." 

Dr.  Hunter,  in  his  notes  upon  Evelyn,  says  :  "  In  former 
times  this  tree  was  supposed  to  be  possessed  of  the  property 
of  driving  away  witches  and  evil  spirits,  and  this  property  is 
recorded  in  one  of  the  stanzas  of  a  very  ancient  song,  called 
the  '  Laidley  Worm  of  Spindlestone  Heughs  : ' 

*' '  Their  spells  were  vain;  the  hags  return'd 
To  the  queen,  in  sorrowful  mood, 
Crying  that  witches  have  no  power 
\Yliere  there  is  roan-tree  wood.' '' 


Wallflower. 

(FIDELITY    IN    MISFORTUNE.) 

A  COMMON  garden  blossom,  that  seldom  receives  all  the 
attention  it  is  worthy  of,  is  the  Wallflower,  symbolical 
oi  fidelity  in  misfortime.  It  was  a  great  favourite  in  the  middle 
ages,  when  troubadours  and  minstrels  wore  it  to  emblemize 
the  unchangeableness  of  their  affection.  Wallflowers  belong 
to  the  Stock  family;  and  by  far  the  finest  is  the  common  one, 
which  Thomson,  in  his  "  Seasons,"  describes  as 

"  The  yellow  wallflower,  strained  with  iron  brown." 

Its  colours  are  extremely  rich,  and  its  odour  most  delightful: 
it  is  a  native  of  Switzerland,  France,  and  Spain,  as  well  as  of  our 
native  land.  "  It  is,"  says  Mr.  Martyn,  "  one  of  the  few  flowers 
which  have  been  cultivated  for  their  fragrancy  time  immemo- 
rial in  our  gardens." 

But  few  modern  poets  have  proved  their  regard  for  this  too- 
much  neglected,  sweet-smelling  flower.     Bernard  Barton  tells 

"  An  emblem  true  thou  art, 

Of  love's  enduring  lustre,  given 
To  cheer  a  lonely  heart. " 

And  elsewhere  this  poet  sings  of  this  flower: 


*'  To  me  it  speaks  of  loveliness, 
That  passes  not  with  youth, 
Of  beauty  which  decay  can  bless. 
Of  constancy  and  truth. 

Notably  amid  the  poets  who  have  delighted  to  do  it  honour 
stands  Moir  {"  Delta  "),  some  of  his  brightest  verses  being  ad- 
dressed to 


But,  in  adversity's  dark  hour. 
When  glory  is  gone  by. 

It  then  exerts  its  gentle  power 
The  scene  to  beautify." 


The  wallflower,  the  wallflower ! 

How  beautiful  it  blooms ! 
It  gleams  above  the  ruined  tower, 

Like  sunlight  over  tombs ; 
«  «  «  «  • 


It  sheds  a  halo  of  repose 
Around  the  wrecks  of  time; 

To  beauty  give  the  flaunting  rose- 
The  wallflower  is  sublime. 


Wallfloiver. 


285 


*'  Sweet  wallflower,  sweet  wallflower ! 

Thou  conjurest  up  to  me 
Full  many  a  soft  and  sunny  hour 

Of  boyhood's  thoughtless  glee ; 
When  joy  from  out  the  daisies  grew 

In  woodland  pastures  green, 
And  Summer  skies  were  far  more  blue 

Than  since  they  e'er  have  been. 


Now  Autumn's  pensive  voice  is  heard 

Amid  the  yellow  bowers ; 
The  robin  is  the  regal  bird, 

And  thou  the  queen  of  flowers  ! 
He  sings  on  the  laburnum-trees, 
Amid  the  twilight  dim. 
And  Araby  ne'er  gave  the  breeze 
Such  scents  as  thou  to  him. 


**  Rich  is  the  pink,  the  lily  gay, 
The  rose  is  Summer's  guest ; 
Bland  are  thy  charms  when  these  decay, 

As  flowers  first,  last,  and  best] 
There  may  be  grander  in  the  bower. 

And  statelier  on  the  tree. 
But  wallflower,  loved  wallflower, 
Thou  art  the  flower  for  me  1 " 


The  Lily  of  the  Valley. 

(RETURN   OF   HAPPINESS.) 

**  Be  thy  advent  the  emblem  of  all  I  would  crave," 

Bernard  Barton. 

THE  Lily  of  the  Valley,  someti*mes  called  the  May  Lily, 
and  in  some  country  villages  Ladder  to  Heaven,  in  the 
floral  languages  of  Europe  is  erpblematic  of  the  return  of 
JiappinesSy  doubtless  in  allusion  to  the  season  of  the  year  when 
it  puts  forth  its  timid  little  blossoms. 

Although  this  flower  is  generally  spcken  of  as  white,  there 
are  several  coloured  varieties  belonging  to  the  species ;  as,  for 
instance,  one  with  red  blossoms,  one  with  double  red,  and  one, 
much  larger  than  the  common  sort,  beautifully  variegated  with 
purple. 

Keats  was  very  fond  of  this  shy  little  floral  fairy,  and  says: 

"  No  flower  amid  the  garden  fairer  grows 
Than  the  sweet  lily  of  the  lowly  vale, 
The  queen  of  flowers." 

And  further  on  he  sings  of 

**  Valley-lilies,  whiter  still 
Than  Leda's  love." 

In  that  enchanted  garden  where  the  sensitive  plant  grew, 
Shelley  lovingly  placed 

**  The  naiad -like  lily  of  the  vale, 
Whom  youth  makes  so  fair,  and  passion  so  pale, 
That  the  light  of  its  tremulous  bells  is  seen 
Through  their  pavilions  of  tender  green. " 

Then,  to  descend  to  more  earthly  versification,  we  find 
Bishop  Mant  opening  a  long  poem  in  praise  of  this  poet's  pet 
with  the  following  lines  : 


OH«>ll«i    T«ll«» 


The  Lily  of  the    Valley. 


287 


Fair  flower,  that,  lapt  in  lowly  glade, 
Dost  hide  beneath  the  greenwood  shade, 

Than  whom  the  vernal  gale 
None  fairer  wakes  on  branch  or  spray, 
Our  England's  lily  of  the  May, 

Our  lily  of  the  vale. 


**  What  though  nor  care  nor  art  be  thine, 
The  loom  to  ply,  the  thread  to  twine, 

Yet  born  to  bloom  and  fade ; 
Thee,  too,  a  lovelier  robe  arrays, 
Than,  even  in  Israel's  brightest  days. 

Her  wealthiest  king  arrayed." 

This  writer  versifies  upon  the  probability  of  this  flower 
being  the  *4ily  of  the  field"  alluded  to  by  Christ,  but  botanists 
assure  us  that  it  is  the  native  of  northern  climes  only,  and 
would  be  unable  to  endure  the  warmth  of  Palestine.  Alluding 
to  the  peculiar  way  in  which  the  blossoms  hang,  and  to  their 
shape,  Leigh  Hunt  prettily  calls  these  flowerlings  "  little  illu- 
mination lamps."  In  some  parts  of  Europe  the  fragrance  of 
this  flower  is  most  powerful. 


Stock. 

(LASTING    BEAUTY.) 

THE  Stock  has  been  long  established  in  English  gardens, 
and,  under  the  somewhat  puzzling  name  of  "gilly- 
flower," is  frequently  mentioned  by  our  oldest  writers.  There 
has  been  a  long-standing  dispute  amongst  florigraphists  as  to 
what  plant  was  really  meant  by  the  latter  diffusedly-applied 
term,  supposed  to  be  a  corruption  of  the  French  girofliei". 
Pinks  and  carnations  were  undoubtedly  classed  formerly  with 
the  stock  as  gillyflowers,  but  more  recently,  in  order  to  dis- 
tinguish them,  were  called  clove-gillyflowers  and  stock-gilly- 
flowers. 

The  stock  should,  indeed,  be  a  favourite  flower  with  the 
softer  sex,  inasmuch  as  it  is  the  chosen  representative  of  what 
Madame  Rachel  so  vehemently  protests  that  she  has  disco- 
vered the  secret  elixir  of,  that  is  to  say,  lasting  beauty.  For 
several  centuries,  as  might  be  supposed,  it  has  been  a  great 
pet  with  the  ladies,  and  carefully  did  the  dames  of  yore  culti- 
vate it  within  the  circumscribed  limits  of  their  castle  gardens. 
No  flowering  plant,  it  is  said,  has  received  more  fostering  care 
than  the  stock  ;  and  so  completely  has  it  surrendered  its  being 
up  to  the  florist,  that  what  was  formerly  only  a  little  sea-side 
flower  now  occasionally  assumes  the  dimensions  of  a  shrub, 
and  puts  forth  blossoms  almost  equalling  the  rose  in  size,  but 
— mark  the  but,  fair  reader — sometimes  of  so  evanescent  a 
nature  and  so  variable  a  hue,  that  some  flowers  of  this  species 
have  been  termed  miUabilis,  or  changeable.  So,  after  all, 
ladies,  you  must  seek  another  emblem,  if  you  wish  one,  for 
enduring  beauty,  for  the  constant  changes  of  this  plant  only 
render  it  a  fit  representative  of  earthly  beauty's  mutability. 


Stock.  289 

As  an  instance  of  what  a  capacity  for  growth  stocks  possess, 
may  be  mentioned  one  grown  at  Notting  Hill  in  1822,  which, 
says  Phillips,  in  his  interesting  "Flora  Historica,"  "attained  a 
circumference  of  nearly  twelve  feet."  This  same  writer  tells 
of  an  acquaintance  of  his,  with  whom  he  made  a  tour  through 
Normandy.  It  was  the  first  time  this  gentleman  had  ever 
left  the  sea-girt  shores  of  his  native  land,  and  so  thoroughly 
insular  were  his  habits  that  everything  he  encountered  dis- 
satisfied him.  The  food  was  unpalatable,  the  girls  ugly,  their 
clothing  too  scanty;  and,  finally,  his  grumblings  made  the 
whole  company  uncomfortable,  until,  adds  the  narrator,  good 
fortune  led  us  to  a  rustic  inn  where  were  growing  several  fine 
stocks,  which,  he  affirmed,  were  the  first  good  things  he  had 
seen  since  he  left  Sussex.  On  hearing  the  landlady  acknow- 
ledge them  to  be  giroflier  de  Brompton,  he  insisted  upon  the 
entire  party  halting  there,  entertained  them  to  a  capital  meal 
at  his  own  expense,  and  left  the  village  with  a  sprig  of  the 
Brompton  stock  decorating  his  button-hole ;  his  good  humour 
restored,  and  the  remainder  of  his  journey  rendered  pleasant, 
all  through,  as  he  frequently  exclaimed,  the  Brompton  stock. 


^■'S^i 


u 


Sweet   William. 

(FINESSE— DEXTERITY. ) 

THE  Sweet  Williani,  a  member  of  the  Pink  family,  from 
the  charming  manner  in  which  it  arranges  its  variegated 
blossoms  into  bouquet-shaped  clusters,  is  well  worthy  of  its 
florigraphical  name  oi  finesse. 

The  Bearded  Pink,  as  it  is  sometimes  designated,  is  known 
to  our  French  neighbours  as  the  *'  poet's  eye,"  because  of  the 
manner  in  which  its  petals  are  marked. 

Gerarde,  the  old  Elizabethan  gardener,  mentions  this  flower 
as  being  highly  esteemed  in  his  days  "  to  deck  up  gardens,  the 
bosoms  of  the  beautiful,  garlands,  and  crowns  for  pleasure." 
The  narrow-leaved  kinds  are  called  "sweet  Johns,"  the  broad- 
leaved  unspotted  ones  are  sometimes  named  "  London  tufts," 
and  the  small  speckled  species,  "  London  pride."  In  fact, 
there  are  too  many  varieties  for  specification  here. 

It  has  already  been  observed  that  the  classic  name  for  the 
floral  family  to  which  this  flower  belongs  signifies  "Jove's 
flower,"  but  in  England  that  is  generally  confined  to  the  pink, 
commonly  so  called  ;  and  this  distinction  has  afi"orded  Cow- 
ley an  opportunity  of  making  these  facetious  remarks  : 

**  Sweet  William  small,  has  form  and  aspect  bright, 
Like  that  sweet  flower  that  yields  great  Jove  delight  ; 
Had  he  majestic  bulk  he  'd  now  be  styled 
Jove's  flower  ;  and,  if  my  skill  is  not  beguiled, 
He  was  Jove's  flower  when  Jove  was  but  a  child. 
Take  him  with  many  flowers  in  one  conferred, 
He 's  worthy  Jove,  e'en  now  he  has  a  beard. " 

Allusion  has  been  made  to  the  strange  horror  manifested  by 
some  people  on  smelling  the  perfume  of,  or  seeing,  certain 
flowers  :  Voltaire  gives  the  history  of  a  young  oflicer  who  was 
thrown  into  convulsions  and  lost  his  senses  through  having 
pinks  in  his  room.  Shakspeare,  never  willing  to  let  anything 
pass  unnoted  by,  causes  Shylock  to  speak  of  such  strange 
antipathies  of  human  nature,  to  account  for  which,  as  he  says, 
"there  is  no  firm  reason  to  be  rendered." 


_fej_ 


Dahlia. 

(POMP.) 

THE  Dahlia  is  a  native  of  Mexico,  where  Baron  Humboldt 
found  it  growing  in  sandy  meadows  several  hundred 
feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea.  It  was  brought  to  England 
in  1789,  but  was  neglected  and  ^h^  genus  lost.  It  ornamented 
the  royal  gardens  of  the  Escurial,  at  Madrid,  for  several  years 
before  Spanish  jealousy  would  permit  it  to  be  introduced  into 
the  other  countries  of  Europe.  But  it  is  said  that  it  neither 
improved  or  exhibited  any  change  under  their  management. 
Count  Lelieur  having  by  some  means  obtained  a  root  from 
the  Dons,  introduced  it  into  France,  where  it  soon  attracted 
attention.  From  that  time  it  engaged  the  notice  of  conti- 
nental floriculturists,  who  propagated  the  plant  so  copiously, 
that  at  the  general  peace  in  1 8 14,  English  travellers  were  as 
much  astonished  by  its  profusion  as  they  were  delighted  with 
its  richness  and  brilliancy. 

It  derives  its  name  from  a  countryman  of  the  celebrated 
Linnaeus,  Professor  Andrew  Dahl,  a  Swedish  botanist :  he  pre- 
sented it  in  1804  to  Lady  Holland,  who  was  its  first  successful 
English  cultivator. 

Its  coarse  foliage,  gaudy  flowers,  and  want  of  perfume  seem 
to  have  prevented  its  becoming  a  favourite  with  our  poets. 
Mrs.  Sigourney  just  alludes  to  it  as  a  florist's  flower,  in  her 
"  Farewell : " 

**  I  have  no  stately  dahlias,  nor  greenhouse  flowers  to  weep, 
But  I  passed  the  rich  man's  garden,  and  the  mourning  tliere  was  deep, 
For  the  crownless  queens  all  drooping  hung  amid  the  wasted  sod, 
Like  Boadicea,  bent  with  shame  beneath  the  Roman  rod. " 


White    Poplar. 

(COURAGE— TIME.) 
**  The  poplar  that  with  silver  lines  his  leaf." 


COWPER. 


THE  White  Poplar  in  classic  story  was  consecrated  to 
Hercules,  the  mythological  representative  of  courage. 
The  hero  first  became  associated  with  the  tree  when  he  de- 
stroyed Cacus,  in  a  cavern  of  Mount  Aventine,  which  was  co- 
vered with  poplars  :  he  bound  a  branch  of  one  round  his  brow 
as  a  token  of  his  victory.  When  the  demigod  returned  from 
his  journey  into  the  infernal  regions,  he  came  crowned  with  a 
wreath  of  his  favourite  tree,  torn  from  the  banks  of  the  river 

Acheron.  .. ^j^^  poplar,  to  Akides  consecrate," 

adds  the  fable,  on  this  occasion  first  had  its  leaves  changed  to 
their  present  hue  ;  for  it  was  the  perspiration  from  the  hero's 
brow — so  runs  the  story — that  made  the  inside  portion  of  the 
leaf  white,  whilst  the  smoke  of  the  lower  regions  turned  the 
upper  surface  of  the  leaf  almost  black.  When  any  ceremonies 
or  sacrifices  were  made  to  Hercules,  his  worshippers  wreathed 
their  heads  with  poplar-leaves,  and  all  who  had  triumphed  in 
battle  wore  garlands  of  it  in  commemoration  of  their  great 
predecessor's  victory. 

Dryden,  translating  Virgil,  says  : 

'*  The  Salii  sing,  and  cense  his  altars  round 
"With  Sabine  smoke,  their  heads  with  poplar  bound," 

The  ancients  also  dedicated  this  tree  to  Time,  because  its 
leaves  appear  constantly  in  motion  ;  and  being  of  a  dead 
blackish  green  above,  and  white  below,  they  deemed  that  they 
indicated  the  alternation  of  night  and  day. 

The  straight  trunk  of  this  elegant  tree  often  rises  to  a  great 
height,  and  it  is  decked  with  a  pale  smooth  bark  that  frequently 
offers  a  marked  contrast  to  its  dark,  rough  neighbours : 


J^HiTE  Poplar.  293 


"  Gracing  each  other  like  the  trees  in  Spring, 
The  tufted  by  the  tall." 

The  light,  graceful  appearance  of  these  trees  rustling  their 
plumed  heads  hither  and  thither  in  the  wind  has  been  a  fruitful 
source  of  simile  to  the  poets,  who  likewise  have  not  failed  to 
notice  the  fine  effect  produced  by  the  alternate  play  of  light 
and  shade  of  the  leaves,  as  now  the  inside,  and  now  the  out,  is 
exposed  to  view. 

In  the  "Odyssey  "these  movements  are  compared  to  women's 
fingers  when  spinning : 

*'  Full  fifty  handmaids  from  the  household  train, 
Some  turn  the  mill,  or  sift  the  golden  grain ; 
Some  ply  the  loom ;  their  busy  fingers  move 
Like  poplar-leaves  when  Zephyr  fans  the  grove." 

Garcilasso,  the  Spanish  poet,  has  a  prettier  conceit : 

**Each  wind  that  breathes,  gallantly  here  and  there 
Waves  the  fine  gold  of  her  disordered  hair, 
As  a  green  poplar-leaf,  in  wanton  play, 
Dances  for  joy  at  rosy  break  of  day." 

What  Martyn  said  in  prose,  Leigh  Hunt  says  thus  in  verse: 

"The  poplar's  shoot. 
That  like  a  feather  waves  from  head  to  foot." 

With  Barry  Cornwall  the  more  otctre  class  of  comparison  is 
dropped,  and  he  sings  sweetly : 

*'  The  greenwoods  moved,  and  the  light  poplar  shook 
Its  silver  pyramid  of  leaves. " 


-*^jfe— 


Black   Poplar 

(AFFLICTION.) 
"The  poplar,  never  dry." 


Spenser. 


THE  Black  Poplar  is  no  less  celebrated  in  heathen  fable 
than  its  fair  sister  ;  the  poets  telling  us  that  the  Heliades, 
daughters  of  Apollo,  gave  way  to  such  excessive  grief  at  the 
loss  of  their  brother,  the  ambitious  young  Phaeton,  that  in  com- 
passion, the  gods  transformed  them  into  poplars,  and  their  tears 
— which  continued  to  ooze  through  the  bark — into  amber. 

Unfortunately,  some  little  discrepancies  appear  to  exist  in 
this  pathetic  story,  some  of  its  narrators  assigning  the  honour 
of  the  metamorphosis  to  the  poplar,  and  some  to  the  alder. 
Ovid,  a  great  authority,  who  gives  the  legend  with  much  cir- 
cumstantial evidence,  merely  says  the  sisters,  wandering  on 
the  banks  of  the  Po,  into  which  river  their  unhappy  brother 
had  been  hurled,  were  changed  into  trees  : 

"When  now  the  eldest,  Phasthusa,  strove 
To  rest  her  weary  limbs,  but  could  not  move, 
Lampetia  would  have  help'd  her,  but  she  found 
Herself  withheld,  and  rooted  to  the  ground  : 
The  third  in  wild  affliction  as  she  grieves, 
Would  rend  her  hair,  but  fills  her  hands  with  leaves. 


"The  new-made  trees  in  tears  of  amber  run, 
Which,  hardened  into  value  by  the  sun, 
Distil  for  ever  on  the  stream  below." 

It  is  undoubtedly  true  that  the  black  poplar  flourishes  on 
the  banks  of  the  Po  ;  and  likewise,  that  it,  as  many  other 
aquatic  trees,  becomes  so  surcharged  with  moisture  as  to  have 
it  exude  through  the  pores  of  the  leaves,  which  may  thus 
literally  be  said  to  weep. 

It  does  not  conduce  to  the  clearness  of  this  antique  allegory 


Black  Poplar.  295 


to  find  Virgil,  a  very  ancient  authority,  in  one  place  calling 
these  noted  trees  poplars,  and  in  another  alders ! 
Rapin  adheres  to  the  popular  theory,  and  says : 

"  Nor  must  the  Heliads'  fate  in  silence  pass, 
Whose  sorrow  first  produced  the  poplar  race ; 
Their  tears,  while  at  a  brother's  grave  they  mourn, 
To  golden  drops  of  fragrant  amber  turn." 

Cowley  fights  for  the  minority  thus  : 

"The  Phaetonian  alder  next  took  place, 
Still  sensible  of  the  burnt  youth's  disgrace ; 
She  loves  the  purling  streams,  and  often  laves 
Beneath  the  floods,  and  wantons  with  the  waves." 

Whilst  Spenser  is  as  discreet  as  Ovid,  and  omits  the  tree's 
name : 

"  And  eke  those  trees  in  whose  transformed  hue 
.  The  sun's  sad  daughters  wailed  the  rash  decay 
Of  Phaeton,  whose  limbs,  with  lightning  rent, 
They  gathering  up,  with  sweet  tears  did  lament. " 

Miss  Kent — no  mean  authority — after  well  weighing  the 
evidence,  thus  gives  judgment :  "  It  is  pretty  generally  under- 
stood, however,  to  be  the  poplar-tree  that  is  so  nearly  related 
to  the  sun,  and  the  black  poplar ;  and  it  is  certain  that  there 
is  no  tree  upon  which  the  sun  shines  more  brightly." 

In  moist  situations  this  tree  will  grow  to  a  great  height :  it 
has  a  long  branchless  trunk,  adorned  with  a  handsome  sym- 
metrical head  ;  the  bark  is  ashen-hued,  the  foliage  of  a  glitter- 
ing brightness ;  and  it  must  be  confessed  that  a  somewhat 
brilliant  symbol  for  affliction  is 

"The  poplar  trembling  o'er  the  silver  flood." 


<^^H^^^>^ 


Motherwort. 

(CONCEALED    LOVE.) 

THIS  emblem  of  concealed  love  does  not  bloom  until  the 
second  year,  but,  like  the  pure  passion  which  it  typifies, 
only  blossoms  once.  In  the  ordinary  kinds  of  Motherwort  the 
flowers  are  pale  red,  but  in  the  curled  they  are  of  a  white  as 
pure  as  the  love  they  emblemize. 

In  China  and  Japan  the  motherwort  is  held  in  great  esti- 
mation, and  in  Shoberl's  translation  from  the  French  of  Tit- 
singh's  "  Illustrations  of  Japan,"  the  following  reasons  for  their 
admiration  are  given.  Formerly  there  was  a  village  situated 
in  the  province  of  Nanyo-no-rekken,  in  Japan,  noted  for  its  pro- 
fusion of  motherwort  flowers.  The  neighbourhood  also  boasted 
of  a  stream  of  particularly  pure  water,  which  constituted  the 
ordinary  beverage  of  the  villagers,  a  hardy  race,  who  lived 
generally  to  upwards  of  a  hundred  years  of  age.  The  prolonged 
existence  of  these  villagers  in  course  of  time  was  ascribed  to 
the  adjacent  flowers,  and  eventually  the  motherwort  acquired 
so  great  a  reputation  for  lengthening  one's  life,  that  not  only 
was  a  medicinal  drink,  called  zakki,  prepared  from  its  blossoms, 
but  the  ninth  month  of  the  year,  when  the  flower  attained  its 
perfection,  was  named  after  it,  and  on  the  ninth  day  of  that 
month  a  grand  festival  is  held  annually  in  its  honour.  The 
aforementioned  zakki  is  a  common  beverage  in  Japan,  but 
there  is  a  superior  kind  of  it  made,  which  is  much  drunk  in 
the  Court  of  the  Dairi,  as  the  ecclesiastical  ruler  of  that  em- 
pire is  sometimes  called.  The  presentation  of  a  cup  of  this 
liquid,  accompanied  by  a  bunch  of  moonwort,  is  stated  to  im- 
ply that  you  are  wished  a  long  life.  Several  Chinese  authors, 
it  is  said,  relate  that  once  upon  a  time  an  emperor  ascended 
the  throne  of  the  Celestials  when  only  seven  years  of  age. 


Mo  THER  WOR  T.  297 


This  precocious  monarch  was  much  troubled  in  his  mind  by  a 
prediction  that  he  would  die  before  he  attained  his  fifteenth 
year.  A  certain  philosopher,  named  Lido,  however,  brought 
him  from  Nanyo-no-rekken  a  sovereign  specific  for  procuring 
a  long  life,  in  the  shape  of  some  of  the  motherwort's  beautiful 
yellow  flowers.  The  emperor  caused  zakki  to  be  made  from 
them,  and  drinking  of  that  beverage  every  day,  lived  upwards 
of  seventy  years.  The  opportune  introducer  of  these  flowers, 
having  given  offence  to  his  illustrious  patient,  was  banished 
from  Court,  whence  he  once  more  betook  himself  to  the  won- 
derful village,  and  there,  drinking  nothing  but  water  impreg- 
nated with  motherwort,  he  lived  to  the  ultra-patriarchal  age  of 
three  hundred  ;  wherefore  he  was  known  to  subsecuent  ages 
by  the  cognomen  of  "  Sien-nin-foso." 


Cornflower. 

(DELICACY.) 

**  Now,  gentle  flower,  I  pray  thee  tell 

If  my  lover  loves  me,  and  loves  me  well. " 

Anonymous. 

THE  classic  cognomen  of  the  bright  blue  Cornflower  is 
Cyanus,  and  it  was  so  named  after  a  fair  young  devotee 
of  Flora,  who  made  garlands  for  public  festivities  out  of  various 
sorts  of  wild  flowers,  and  who  lingered  lovingly  from  morn  till 
eve  amid  the  corn,  weaving  into  flowery  coronals  the  blossoms 
that  she  had  collected,  accompanying  her  pleasant  labour  by 
singing  the  songs  of  her  beloved  fatherland. 

This  flower,  although  now  so  common  in  our  corn-fields,  is 
thought  not  to  be  indigenous,  but  to  have  been  brought  from 
the  East  amongst  some  imported  grain. 

Its  deep  blue  hue  is  so  deep  that  it  almost  approaches  a 
purple,  and  as  such  the  poet  addresses  it: 

**  There  is  a  flower,  a  purple  flower, 

Sown  by  the  wind,  nursed  by  the  shower, 

O'er  which  Love  breathed  a  powerful  spell, 

The  truth  of  whispering  hope  to  tell. 

Now,  gentle  flower,  I  pray  thee  tell, 

If  my  lover  loves  me,  and  loves  me  well : 

So  may  the  fall  of  the  morning  dew 

Keep  the  sun  from  fading  thy  tender  blue. " 

Elizabeth  Rowe  is  stated  not  only  to  have  been  extremely 
fond  of  the  cyanus,  as  indeed  every  lover  of  the  beautiful  in 
nature  must  be,  but  to  have  obtained  from  this  flower's  ex- 
pressed juice  a  permanent  transparent  blue,  little  inferior  to 
ultramarine,  wherewith  to  paint  some  of  her  choicest  blossoms. 
The  following  pretty  description  of  the  habits  of  this  delicately 
beautiful  flower  appeared  some  years  ago,  in  the  pages  of  a 
monthly  publication: 


Cornflower  299 


"  What  an  exquisite  coronet  of  sky-blue  florets  is  conspicuous 
in  the  cyanus  !  every  floret  is  a  fairy  vase,  that  holds  forth  a 
rich  nectareous  juice  to  thirsty  insects.  And  when  each  vase, 
having  fulfilled  its  appointed  purpose,  is  laid  aside,  beautiful 
green  cradles  become  developed,  as  if  by  enchantment,  con- 
taining little  winged  children,  which  the  zephyrs  delight  to 
rock  !  These  winged  children  are  often  peculiarly  beautiful : 
their  small  pinions  are  elegantly  variegated  at  the  base,  and 
adorned  with  the  most  delicate  jet-black  feathers,  which,  to 
the  unassisted  eye,  appear  only  like  minute  hairs,  and  yet  are 
perfect  feathers  of  the  most  exquisite  description.  They  pre- 
sently fly  abroad,  bearing  with  them  seeds  of  equal  rarity,  with 
one  minute  groove  fitted  to  another,  and  having  a  finished  and 
elaborate  mechanism  whereby  to  facilitate  the  purpose  for 
which  they  are  designed." 

And  this  little  flower  is  only  one  minute  piece,  scarcely  per- 
ceptible amongst  the  many  myriads  of  more  or  less  complexity, 
of  which  this  globe's  marvellous  mosaic  is  compounded ! 


v^^^ 


)^^ 


Aspen. 

(LAMENTATION.) 

**  And  full  of  emotion,  its  fault  doth  deplore, 
Sigh,  shiver,  and  quiver,  and  droop  evermore." 

Eleanor  Darby. 

THE  Trembling  Poplar  is  now  generally  known  as  the 
Aspen.  It  is  chiefly  remarkable  for  the  ceaseless  tremu- 
lous motion  of  its  leaves — a  natural  phenomenon,  to  account 
for  which  many  very  diverse  explanations  have  been  proffered. 
One  authority  attributes  it  to  the  plane  of  the  long  leaf-stalk 
being  at  right  angles  with  that  of  the  leaf,  thus  allowing  a  freer 
motion  than  they  could  have  had  if  the  planes  had  been 
parallel ;  another  learned  gentleman  ascribes  the  trembling  to 
the  length  and  slenderness  of  the  leaf-stalks ;  but  that  this  is 
not  a  sufficient  reason  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  the  leaves  of 
other  poplars  have  the  same  properties  without  partaking  of  a 
similar  restlessness.  Some  malicious  wretches  have  affirmed 
that  the  leaves  of  the  aspen  were  made  of  women's  tongues, 
"which  never  cease  wagging."  The  Highlanders,  however, 
set  the  question  at  rest  by  saying  that  the  cross  upon  which 
Christ  suffered  crucifixion  was  made  from  the  wood  of  this 
tree,  and  that  therefore  the  tree  can  never  rest.  A  quibbling 
objection  has  been  raised  against  this  theory,  that  the  leaves 
can  scarcely  be  conscience-stricken,  as  the  cross  could  not  have 
been  made  of  them  ;  nevertheless,  the  querist  admits  that  they 
may  be  struggling  to  escape  from  the  wicked  wood  on  which 
they  grow.  Miss  Darby,  in  her  "Lays  of  Love  and  Heroism," 
has  thus  versified  a  German  legend  upon  the  subject : 

**  The  Lord  of  Life  walk'd  in  the  forest  one  morn, 
"When  the  song- wearied  nightingale  slept  on  the  thorn ; 
Not  a  breath  the  deep  hush  of  the  dawning  hour  broke, 
Yet  every  tree,  e'en  the  firm  knotted  oak, 


i»«*KLE»     itRfi'T, 


i 


€t 


Aspen.  301 

The  tall  warrior  pine,  and  the  cedar  so  regal, 

The  home  of  the  stork  and  the  haunt  of  the  eagle 

All  the  patriarchal  kings  of  the  forest  adored 

And  bowed  their  proud  heads  at  the  sight  of  the  Lord ! 

**  One  tree,  and  one  only,  continued  erect, 
Too  vain  to  show  even  the  Saviour  respect ! 
The  light  giddy  aspen  its  leafy  front  raised, 
And  on  the  Redeemer  unbendingly  gazed. 
Then  a  cloud,  more  of  sorrow  than  wrath,  dimm'd  the  brow 
Of  Him  to  whom  everything  living  should  bow ; 
While  to  the  offender,  with  shame  now  opprest. 
He  breathed  in  these  words  the  eternal  behest : 

'  Alas  for  thy  fate  !  thou  must  suffer,  poor  tree. 
For  standing  when  others  were  bending  the  knee. 
Thou  'rt  doomed  for  thy  fault  an  atonement  to  pay : 
Henceforth  be  a  rush  for  the  wild  winds  to  sway. 
Sigh,  sport  of  their  fury,  and  slave  of  their  will ! 
Bow,  e'en  in  a  calm,  when  all  others  are  still ! 
And  shivering,  quivering,  droop  evermore, 
Because  thou  wouldst  not  with  thy  brothers  adore.' 

**  The  weak  aspen  trembled,  turned  pale  with  dismay, 
And  is  pallid  with  terror  and  grief  to  this  day. 
Each  tremulous  leaf  of  the  penitent  tree 
Obeys  to  this  moment  the  heav'nly  decree. 
'T  is  the  sport  of  the  wild  winds,  the  slave  of  their  will, 
E'en  without  a  breeze  bends,  when  all  others  stand  still ; 
And  full  of  emotion,  its  fault  doth  deplore, 
Sigh,  shiver,  and  quiver,  and  droop  evermore." 

Moore,  with  his  usual  feUcity  of  combining  humanity  and 
nature's  pecuHarities,  prettily  sings  : 

"  That  the  wind,  full  of  wantonness,  woos  like  a  lover 
The  young  aspen-trees,  till  they  tremble  all  over." 


^■^^^ 


jejs* 


O 


Lemon. 

(ZEST.) 

THE  Lemon,  in  every  respect  so  appropriate  an  emblem  of 
zest,  is  a  variety  of  the  citron,  and  is  consequently  a 
blood  relation  of  the  more  admired  orange.  It  was  first  known 
to  Europeans  as  the  Median  Apple,  having  been  brought  origi- 
nally from  Media.  Virgil  terms  it  "the  happy  apple,"  on 
account  of  its  virtues ;  and  in  his  second  "  Georgic  "  thus  sings 
its  praises : 

**Nor  be  the  citron,  Media's  boast,  unsung, 
Though  harsh  the  juice  and  lingering  on  the  tongue : 
When  the  drugg'd  bowl,  'mid  witching  curses  brew'd, 
Wastes  the  pale  youth  by  step-dame  Hate  pursued, 
Its  powerful  aid  unbinds  the  mutter'd  spell. 
And  frees  the  victim  from  the  draught  of  hell." 

Who  is  there  that  is  not  acquainted  with  Gothe's  beautiful 
ballad,  "  Know'st  thou  the  Land  where  the  Citrons  bloom?" 
evidently  referring  to  the  lemon.  Few  poets  have  flung  their 
wreaths  upon  this  flower's  fragrant  shrine :  they  have  been 
seduced  away  by  the  more  voluptuous  beauty  of  her  darker- 
hued  sister ;  and  yet  in  former  days  the  fairer  of  the  twain  bore 
away  the  bell,  if  not  for  beauty,  at  least  for  virtue.  Hearken, 
O  gentle  reader  !  to  a  story  which  Athenseus  relates  in  proof 
of  the  good  qualities  of  the  neglected  lemon ;  a  story  told  him 
by  a  friend  of  his  who  was  Governor  of  Egypt.  This  governor 
had  condemned  two  malefactors  to  death  by  the  bite  of  ser- 
pents. As  they  were  led  to  execution,  a  person,  taking  com- 
passion on  them,  gave  them  a  citron  to  eat.  The  consequence 
of  this  was,  that  though  they  were  exposed  to  the  bite  of  the 
most  venomous  serpents,  they  received  no  injury.  The  governor, 
being  surprised  at  this  extraordinary  event,  inquired  of  the 
soldiers  who  guarded  them  what  they  had  eaten  or  drunk  that 
day ;  and  being  informed  that  they  had  only  eaten  a  citron,  he 


Lemon. 


303 


ordered  that  the  next  day  one  of  them  should  eat  citron,  and 
the  other  not.  He  who  had  not  tasted  the  citron  died  presently 
after  he  was  bitten ;  the  other  remained  unhurt. 

The  blossoms  of  the  lemon  are  deemed  typical  of  loves 
fidelity. 

In  Tennyson's  "  Recollections  of  the  Arabian  Nights  "  is  the 
following  picture  of  an  enchanted  and  enchanting  lemon-grove : 

*  *  Far  off,  and  where  the  lemon-grove 
In  closest  coverture  upsprung, 
The  living  airs  of  middle  night 
Died  round  the  bulbul  as  he  sung ; 
Not  he,  but  something  which  possess'd 
The  darkness  of  the  world,  delight, 
Life,  anguish,  death,  immortal  love, 
Ceasing  not,  mingled,  unrepress'd, 
Apart  from  place,  withholding  time. 
But  flattering  the  golden  prime 
Of  good  Haroun  Alraschid." 


Passion   Flower. 

(FAITH.) 

MOST  of  the  Passion  Flowers  are  natives  of  South 
America  ;  and  although  some  of  them  have  been 
induced  to  open  their  starry-leaved  blossoms  to  the  less  glow- 
ing sun  of  these  colder  climes,  it  is  only  in  the  land  of  their 
birth  that  they  can  be  seen  in  all  their  unsurpassed  loveliness. 
There  they  are  larger,  brighter-hued,  and  far  more  fragrant ; 
there  they  are  to  be  seen  in  the  dense  forests  twining  their 
glorious  coronals  around  the  massive  trunks  of  everlasting  trees, 
or  else  in  waves  of  radiant  beauty  flowing  over  the  myriad 
splendours  that 

"The  floor  of  Nature's  temple  tesselate 

With  numerous  emblems  of  instructive  duty.  '* 

Yes,  those  who  would  view  this  glorious  symbol  c>i  faithful- 
ness in  its  unshorn  loveliness  must  seek  it  in  the  immense  forests 
of  Brazil,  blossoming  amid  all  that  grandeur,  "  boundless  as  our 
wonder,"  of  which  Humboldt  has  so  nobly  told.  There,  in  "that 
fane,  most  catholic  and  solemn," 

' '  The  faint  passion  flower,  the  sad  and  holy. 
Tells  of  diviner  hopes ; " 

and  there  it  was  that  the  peculiarities  of  its  delicately-shaped 
blossom  first  attracted  the  notice  of  the  invading  Spaniards, 
who  were  then  desolating  surrounding  nature  with  fire  and 
sword,  under  the  vile  pretence  of  spreading  the  religion  of 
peace  and  goodwill  towards  all  men. 

In  the  thread-like  coloured  stamens  which  surround  the 
flower-like  rays,  and  in  the  various  curious  portions  that  com- 
bine to  form  this  "  floral  apostle,"  are  discovered  a  representa- 
tion of  the  crown  of  thorns,  the  scourge,  the  cross,  the  sponge, 
the  nails,  and  the  five  wounds  of  Christ ;  indeed,  all  the  terrible 
paraphernalia  necessary  to  portray  the  Passion  of  Jesus.    The 


— nrrrmr-fTT«T 


Passion  Flower. 


305 


sight  of  this  wondrous  symbol  in  that  distant  land  is  said  to 
have  confirmed  the  invaders  in  the  belief  that  their  schemes 
of  conquest  were  sanctioned  by  a  divine  power  ;  and  so,  inspired 
by  this  poor  innocent  floral  emblem  of  faith,  they  pursued,  un- 
relentingly, their  course  of  rapine  and  murder ! 

In  Catholic  countries  this  day-star  is  regarded  with  con- 
siderable veneration,  and  is  deemed  a  marvellous  confirmation 
of  the  scriptural  doctrine  of  the  Atonement. 


20 


Syringa. 

(FRATERNAL    LOVE.) 

SYRINGA  is  a  Greek  word,  signifying  "pipe,"  and  its 
ancient  English  name  was  "pipe-tree."  Its  classical  appel- 
lation is  Philadelphus,  so  called  after  Ptolemy  Philadelphus, 
King  of  Egypt,  who  acquired  celebrity  for  the  intense  affection 
he  manifested  for  his  brother  :  for  this  reason  Syrmga  was  con- 
secrated to  his  memory,  and  has  been  adopted  as  the  flori- 
graphical  sign  oi  fraternal  love. 

The  Syringa  is  a  most  delicious  shrub  :  the  foliage  is  luxu- 
riant, the  blossoms  beautiful,  abundant,  and  of  a  creamy  white- 
ness, starred  with  a  golden  centre,  and  emitting  a  most  fragrant 
perfume.  Well  might  Cowper  speak  in  praise  of  the  "  syringa, 
ivory  pure,"  and  well  indeed  could  Pliny  call  such  blossoms 
"  the  joy  of  plants." 

Mason,  in  his  "  English  Garden,"  speaks  of  this  most  odori- 
ferous plant,  but  can  scarcely  be  deemed  to  have  awarded  it 
its  due  meed  of  praise,  inserting  as  he  does  that  uncalled-for 
odious  but: 

**The  sweet  syringa,  yielding  but  in  scent 
To  the  rich  orange,  or  the  woodbine  wild, 
That  loves  to  hang  on  barren  boughs  remote 
Her  wreaths  of  flowery  perfume." 

Certainly  its  exquisite  loveliness,  super-eminent  fragrance, 
and  profuseness  of  foliage  and  flower,  deserved  more  attention 
from  the  neglectful  poets  than  this  sweet  shrub  has  gained. 

Some  botanists  have  named  the  lilac  "  syringa,"  but  really 
there  is  no  resemblance  between  the  two.  Syringa  is  a  member 
of  the  beautiful  and  aromatic  myrtle  family,  whilst  the  lilac 
belongs  to  the  jasmines.  Tasmania  is  rich  in  the  possession  of 
this  attractive  plant,  and  there  is  a  species  growing  there  called 
the  "  myrtle-leaved  syringa,"  of  which  the  fresh  flowering  shoots 
were  used  by  Captain  Cook's  sailors  to  make  a  kind  of  tea 
from  :  they  found  the  infusion  sweetly  aromatic  at  first,  but  in 
a  short  time  it  became  very  bitter.  It  was  considered  very 
serviceable,  however,  in  attacks  of  sea-scurvy. 


And  romeda. 

(WILL     YOU     HELP     ME?) 

THIS  delicate  shrub  was  called  Andromeda  by  the  celebra- 
ted Lmnseus,  after  the  daughter  of  Cepheus  and  Cassiope, 
the  story  of  whose  exposure  at  the  water-side,  and  rescue  from 
the  sea-monster  by  Perseus,  forms  one  of  the  most  poetical 
episodes  in  the  fourth  book  of  Ovid's  "  Metamorphoses."  The 
illustrious  Swede  gives  the  following  reason  for  applying  the 
classic  appellation  to  this  pretty  pink  marsh-flower :  **  As  I 
contemplated  it,  I  could  not  help  thinking  of  Andromeda,  as 
described  by  the  poets — a  virgin  of  most  exquisite  beauty  and 
unrivalled  charms.  The  plant  is  always  fixed  in  some  turfy 
hillock  in  the  midst  of  the  swamps,  as  Andromeda  herself  was 
chained  to  a  rock  in  the  sea,  which  bathed  her  feet  as  the  fresh 
water  does  the  root  of  the  plant.  As  the  distressed  virgin  cast 
down  her  blushing  face  through  excessive  affliction,  so  does 
the  rosy-coloured  flower  hang  its  head,  growing  paler  and  paler 
till  it  withers  away.  At  length  comes  Perseus,  in  the  shape  of 
summer,  dries  up  the  surrounding  waters,  and  destroys  the 
monster. 

Thus  the  author  of  a  "Tour  in  Lapland  "  recounts  the  words 
of  Linnaeus,  and  it  is  pleasant  to  see  by  their  elucidation  how 
the  great  botanist  composed  his  language  of  flowers — a  floral 
language  that  for  many  years  held  so  pre-eminent  a  sway,  and 
which,  even  now,  is  not  quite  superseded. 

To  German  florigraphists  this  flower  typifies  the  question, 
For  whom  do  you  wait  f 


20—2 


Parsley. 

(FESTIVITY.) 

ALTHOUGH  modern  florigraphists,  swayed  by  the  cir- 
cumstance of  the  ancients  having  frequently  made  sym- 
bohc  use  of  this  herb  at  their  banquets,  have  adopted  Parsley 
as  the  representative  oi  festivity,  with  the  nations  of  antiquity 
it  was  deemed  typical  of  the  most  melancholy  feelings.  In 
Potter's  erudite  "Antiquities  of  Greece,"  it  is  stated  that  of  all 
the  flowers  and  herbs  used  by  the  Greeks  to  decorate  graves, 
none  was  in  greater  request  than  parsley;  and  this  custom, 
observes  our  learned  authority,  gave  birth  to  that  despairing 
proverb,  when  speaking  of  one  dangerously  ill,  "  that  he  has 
need  of  nothing  but  parsley;"  which  is  in  effect  to  say  that  he 
is  a  dying  man,  and  nearly  ready  for  the  grave.  Dead  bodies 
were  also  strewed  with  sprigs  of  this  herb : 

**  Garlands  that  o'er  thy  doors  I  hung, 

Hang  withered  now  and  crumble  fast ; 
Whilst  parsley  on  thy  fair  form  flung, 
Now  tells  my  heart  that  all  is  past," 

cries  the  forlorn  youth  over  the  lifeless  form  of  his  betrothed. 

Plutarch  relates  that  when  Timoleon  was  marching  his  troops 
up  some  ascending  ground,  whence  he  expected  to  obtain  a 
view  of  the  forces  and  strength  of  the  Carthaginians,  he  was 
met  by  a  number  of  mules  laden  with  parsley  ;  which  circum- 
stance, says  the  historian,  was  looked  upon  by  his  soldiers  as 
an  ill-omened  and  fatal  occurrence,  that  being  the  very  herb 
wherewith  the  sepulchres  of  the  dead  were  adorned. 

These  funeral  associations  notwithstanding,  parsley  was  also 
held  in  high  repute  by  the  Greeks  for  festive  and  other  pleasant 
events,  as  far  back  as  the  times  of  Homer.  That  poet,  in  the 
fifth  book  of  the  "  Odyssey,"  uses  it,  in  conjunction  with  the 
song-honoured  violet,  to  adorn  the  precincts  of  Calypso's  arbour: 

**  In  verdant  meads,  and  thriving  all  around, 
Sweet  violets  and  parsley  deck  the  ground." 


Parsley. 


109 


Its  elegantly  indented  leaves  caused  it  to  be  adopted,  to- 
gether with  the  acanthus,  in  the  adornment  of  the  Corinthian 
capital.  It  is  recorded  that  the  Carthaginians,  having  found 
this  herb  in  the  delightful  vales  of  Sardinia,  carried  it  with 
them  to  the  Phocean  gardens  of  the  ]\Iarseillais;  and  ancient 
coins  have  been  found  representing  Sardinia  under  the  figure 
of  a  female,  standing  beside  a  vase  containing  a  bunch  of 
parsley. 

On  festive  occasions  it  was  customary  for  the  Greeks  to 
wear  a  wreath  formed  of  sprigs  of  this  plant,  and  a  crown 
of  fresh  parsley  was  the  prize  awarded  to  the  winner  of  the 
Nemaean  sports  ;  at  the  Elean  games,  at  one  time,  a  chaplet 
of  withered  parsley  was  the  winner  s  guerdon.  The  victors  in 
the  Isthmian  games  at  Rome  were  crowned  with  leaves  of  this 
herb;  and  on  many  other  like  memorable  occasions  was  it 
employed. 

'^f/'  it  is  stated  in  "Time's  Telescope,"  for  1825,  "after 
having  bruised  some  sprigs  of  parsley  in  your  hands,  you 
attempt  to  rinse  your  glasses,  they  will  generally  snap  and 
suddenly  break." 

An  eminent  writer  on  the  symbolism  of  flow^ers,  after  justly 
remarking  what  an  elegant  decoration  for  the  board  the  beau- 
tiful green  of  this  plant  affords,  pathetically  laments  that  ''a 
branch  of  laurel  and  a  parsley  crown  are  the  attributes  which 
would  now-a-days  suit  the  god  of  banquets.  These  plants 
have  been  employed  for  nobler  purposes  ;  but,  in  the  age  of 
gastronomy,  it  will  not  do  to  insist  too  strongly  on  what  was 
done  in  the  heroic  ages." 


Mistletoe. 

(GIVE    ME    A    KISS.) 

*' The  sacred  bush."  Tennyson. 

THE  Mistletoe  Is  too  well  known  'co  need  any  description 
of  its  botanical  properties,  whilst  the  important  part 
which  it  plays  in  Christmas  festivities  scarcely  requires  more 
than  a  passing  allusion  :  every  one  is  acquainted  with  that 
remarkable  custom  which  permits  any  lad  to  exact  from  any 
lass  the  toll  of  one  kiss,  when  they  accidentally  meet  where 

**  Sacred  ceilings,  dark  and  grey, 
Bear  the  mistletoe." 

The  singular  practice  associated  with  "the  sacred  bush"  is 
evidently  a  relic  of  some  very  ancient  custom  ;  indeed,  from  the 
earliest  ages,  wonderful  properties  have  been  ascribed  to  this 
parasitical  plant,  but  it  was  from  Druidic  uses  that  it  acquired 
its  principal  sanctity.  By  the  ancient  Inhabitants  of  this  island 
the  mistletoe  was  held  in  great  veneration,  particularly  when 
it  grew  upon  the  oak,  that — In  the  eyes  of  the  Druids — most 
sacred  of  all  trees.  As  this  parasite,  however,  Is  not  often 
found  upon  the  oak,  it  is  presumed  that  our  ancient  priests 
were  accustomed  to  plant  it  there  by  inserting  the  seed.  At 
the  beginning  of  their  year  the  Druids  went  in  solemn  pro- 
cession into  the  woods  in  order  to  seek  for  mistletoe,  and 
whenever  they  discovered  any,  announced  the  fact  by  joyous 
shouts.  A  grass  altar  was  then  erected  beneath  the  tree,  and 
inscribed  with  such  divine  titles  as  they  deemed  most  powerful. 
On  the  sixth  day  of  the  moon,  the  head  Druid,  clad  In  a  white 
garment,  ascended  the  tree,  and,  in  the  sight  of  the  multitude, 
by  means  of  a  consecrated  golden  sickle,  cut  off  the  mistletoe 
and  dropped  it  Into  a  pure  white  cloth  which  the  assistant 
priests  held  beneath.  Two  white  bulls,  or,  upon  the  most 
important  occasions,  human  beings,  were  sacrificed,  and  the 
Deity  invoked  to  bless  the  plant,  which  was  finally  dipped 
in  water,  blessed  by  the  principal  priest,  and  distributed 
amongst  the  populace,  as  a  preservative  against  witchcraft 
and  diseases.    If  any  portion  of  the  plant  came  in  contact  with 


Mistletoe.  311 


the  earth,  it  was  considered  as  ominous  of  some  dreadful  mis- 
fortune threatening  the  nation.  The  practice  of  decorating 
dweUings  and  places  of  worship  with  holly  and  mistletoe  is 
undoubtedly  of  Druidic  origin.  Dr.  Chandler  states  that  in 
the  times  of  the  Druids  the  houses  were  decked  with  boughs, 
in  order  that  the  sylvan  spirits  might  repair  thither,  and  remain 
unnipped  by  frost  and  cold  winds,  until  a  milder  season  had 
renewed  the  foliage  of  their  darling  abodes. 

Amongst  the  various  valuable  qualities  which  the  Druids 
ascribed  to  "  all-heal,"  as  they  termed  the  mistletoe,  was  that 
of  being  an  infallible  antidote  to  all  poisons  and  a  cure  for 
all  diseases.  Its  magical  properties  are  alluded  to  by  Virgil, 
Ovid,  and  other  writers  of  antiquity ;  and  even  in  the  present 
day,  in  some  secluded  places,  it  is  regarded  with  superstitious 
reverence.  In  Holstein  the  country  people  call  the  mistletoe 
"the  spectre's  wand,"  from  the  supposition  that  holding  a 
branch  of  it  will  not  only  enable  a  man  to  see  ghosts,  but  force 
them  to  speak  to  him. 

In  Scandinavian  mythology  this  bush  plays  a  far  from 
unimportant  part.  In  the  "  Edda"  it  is  recorded  that  Balder, 
the  Scandinavian  counterpart  of  Apollo,  was  charmed  by  his 
mother  Friga  against  all  injury  from  everything  which  sprang 
from  the  so-called  four  elements,  fire,  air,  earth,  and  water;  but 
Loke,  the  evil  spirit,  having  an  enmity  against  him,  formed  an 
arrow  out  of  mistletoe,  which  grew  from  none  of  these  things, 
and  placed  it  in  the  hand  of  the  blind  Helder.  The  sightless 
deity  launched  the  fatal  dart  at  the  seeming  invulnerable  Balder, 
and  struck  him  to  the  ground.  By  a  combined  effort  of  the 
gods,  Balder  was  afterwards  restored  to  life ;  and,  as  a  repara- 
tion for  his  injury,  the  mistletoe  was  dedicated  to  his  mother 
Friga,  the  Scandinavian  equivalent  for  Venus.  The  plant  was 
placed  entirely  under  her  control,  so  as  to  prevent  its  being  again 
used  against  her  as  an  instrument  of  mischief.  From  the  fact 
of  its  having  been  under  the  protection  of  this  deity,  arose,  it 
is  presumed,  the  custom  of  kissing  under  it  at  Christmas.  In 
the  days  of  chivalry  it  still  continued  to  receive  many  honours : 
it  was  gathered  with  great  solemnity  on  Christmas-eve,  and 
suspended  from  the  ceiling  of  the  great  hall,  where,  with  much 
noisy  rejoicing,  were  "the  girls  all  kiss'd  beneath  the  sacred 
bush."     In  those  jolly  times 


312  Mistletoe. 

*'  On  Christmas-eve  the  bells  were  rung, 
On  Christmas-eve  the  mass  was  sung  ; 
That  only  night  in  all  the  year 
Saw  the  stoled  priest  the  chalice  near. 
The  damsel  donned  her  kirtle  sheen  ; 
The  hall  was  dressed  with  holly  green  ; 
Forth  to  the  woods  did  merry  men  go, 
To  gather  in  the  mistletoe. 
Then  opened  wide  the  baron's  hall 
To  vassal,  tenant,  serf,  and  all." 

In  these  less  demonstrative  days  we  are  apt  to  forget  many 
of  the  good  old  customs  of  our  forefathers'  times ;  many  of 
them  are  only  to  be  met  with  in  tales  of  eld,  or  flitting  through 
poets'  rhymes.  Of  all  seasons,  Christmas  is  the  one  now  kept 
up  gleefully  in  the  happy  homes  of  Old  England  ;  and  of  all 
her  ancient  customs,  the  one  that  appears  least  likely  to  be 
forgotten  is  that  very  pleasant  one  of  kissing  under  the 
mistletoe-bough.     'Long  may  it  last  in  all  its  jollity ! 

Of  all  our  living  poets  none  has  shown  more  pleasure  in 
depicting  Christmas  life  in  Britain  than  Eliza  Cook,  and  in 
the  following  song  she  tells  far  better  in  poetry  than  can  be 
told  in  prose  what  should  take  place  "Under  the  Mistletoe:" 

**  Under  the  mistletoe,  pearly  and  green, 

Meet  the  kind  lips  of  the  young  and  the  old ; 
Under  the  mistletoe  hearts  may  be  seen 

Glowing  as  though  they  had  never  been  cold. 
Under  the  mistletoe,  peace  and  goodwill 
«  Mingle  the  spirits  that  long  have  been  twain  ; 

Leaves  of  the  olive-branch  twine  with  it  still. 

While  breathings  of  hope  fill  the  loud  carol  strain. 
Yet  why  should  this  holy  and  festival  mirth 

In  the  reign  of  old  Christmas-tide  only  be  found? 
Hang  up  love's  mistletoe  over  the  earth. 

And  let  us  kiss  under  it  all  the  year  round ! 

**  Hang  up  the  mistletoe  over  the  land 

Where  the  poor  dark  man  is  spurn'd  by  the  white ; 
Hang  it  wherever  Oppression's  strong  hand 

Wrings  from  the  helpless  humanity's  right ; 
Hang  it  on  high  where  the  starving  lip  sobs, 

And  the  patrician  one  turneth  in  scorn ; 
Let  it  be  met  where  the  purple  steel  robs 

Child  of  its  father,  and  field  of  its  corn. 
Hail  it  with  joy  in  our  yule-lighted  mirth, 

But  let  it  not  fade  with  the  festival  sound  ; 
Hang  up  love's  mistletoe  over  the  earth. 

And  let  us  kiss  under  it  all  the  year  round  !  *' 


Oak. 

(HOSPITALITY.) 

'  And  the  oak,  king  of  Britannia's  woods, 
And  guardian  of.  her  isle." 


DODSLEY. 


THE  Oak,  the  king  of  forests  all,"  was  considered  the 
most  sacred  of  all  trees  by  the  chief  nations  of  an- 
tiquity, and  its  existence  deemed  coeval  with,  the  earth's.  No 
faith  but  appears  to  have  associated  its  rites  with  this  symbol 
of  majesty  and  strength.  Biblical  lore  abounds  with  allusions 
to  this  "  tower  of  strength,"  It  was  "  under  the  oak  which 
was  by  Shech-pm,"  that  Jacob  buried  the  strange  gods  and 
ornaments  of  his  household.  Under  the  "  oak  of  weeping  " 
Deborah,  Rebekah's  nurse,  was  interred.  The  Lord's  mes- 
senger that  appeared  to  Gideon  "sat  under  an  oak  ;"  and  it  was 
by  the  branches  of  one  of  these  trees  that  Absalom,  David's 
beloved  but  rebellious  son,  was  caught,  and  met  with  death. 
"  The  oaks  of  Bashan,"  that  mystic  land  where  dwelt  the 
mighty  King  Og  and  his  gigantic  followers,  are  called  to 
mind,  together  with  numerous  other  allusions  to  the  hospitable 
tree — to  that  tree  which  many  ancient  races  believed  to  have 
afforded  shelter  to  the  first  human  beings. 

The  oak  held  a  very  prominent  place  in  the  religious  and 
other  ceremonies  of  the  Greeks.  The  Dodonean  groves  in 
Epirus,  so  celebrated  for  their  oracles,  which  were  supposed 
to  proceed  from  the  interior  of  the  trees  themselves,  were  of 
oak  ;  and  Argo,  the  ship  of  the  Argonauts,  being  constructed 
with  the  wood  of  this  tree,  was  endowed  with  the  same  power 
of  speech,  and  counselled  the  voyagers  by  oracular  directions. 
The  Dodonean  Jupiter,  the  Fates,  and  Hecate,  were  crowned 
with  oak-leaves.  Acorns  were  the  first  food  of  man,  and  the 
Greeks  had  an  old  proverb,  in  which  they  expressed  an  idea 
of  a  man's  age  and  experience  by  saying  that  he  had  "eaten 
of  Jove's  acorns." 

This  monarch  of  the  woods  was  held  in  still  greater  esteem 
by  the  Latin  race,  and  their  principal  poets  never  omitted  an 


314  Oak. 

opportunity  of  doing  it  honour ;  indeed,  they  are  the  only 
nation  that  can  in  any  way  compare  with  the  EngHsh  in  the 
high  value  which  they  set  upon  the  oak.  In  their  emblematic 
ceremonies  it  filled  a  most  important  post :  they  considered  it 
symbolic  of  majesty  and  pozver,  and  consecrated  it  to  Jupiter, 
w^ho,  say  the  fabulists,  was  sheltered  by  it  at  his  birth.    "  It  is," 

says  Virgil,  "  Jove's  own  tree, 

That  holds  the  woods  in  awful  sovereignty. 

*  *  *  *  *  ^t  Ht 

Stretching  his  brawny  arms  and  leafy  hands, 

His  shade  protects  the  plains,  his  head  the  hills  commands." 

In  this  same  poem,  the  second  "  Georgic,"  the  great  Latin 
has,  as  Mr.  Gilpin  truly  observes,  in  a  few  words  brought  to- 
gether the  most  obvious  characteristics  of  this  noble  tree,— 
its  firmness,  its  stoutness  of  limb,  the  sinuousity  of  its  wide- 
spreading  branches,  and  its  remarkable  longevity. 

Virgil  was  not  alone  in  his  admiration  for  the  kingly  oak,  as 
the  Roman  poets,  especially  Ovid  and  Lucan,  are  frequently 
found  paying  the  passing  tribute  of  their  deathless  verse  to 
"  the  tree  of  Jove,"  as  they  love  to  term  it.  In  the  earlier  ages 
acorns  appear  to  have  been  a  very  important  article  of  food, 
and  in  ancient  Rome  it  was  feigned  that  Ceres  was  the  first 
who  superseded  their  use  by  instructing  Triptolemus  to  teach 
the  peasantry  how  to  cultivate  and  use  corn  : 

**The  oak,  whose  acorns  were  our  food  before 
That  Ceres'  seed  of  mortal  man  was  known, 
Which  first  Triptoleme  taught  how  to  be  sown." 

In  commemoration  of  this  valuable  gift,  oak-leaves  were 
worn  at  the  festivals  held  in  honour  of  Ceres,  as  also  by  hus- 
bandmen in  general  at  the  beginning  of  the  harvest. 

To  the  Roman  soldier  who  saved  the  life  of  another  in 
battle  a  chaplet  of  oak-leaves  was  awarded.  Shakspeare  makes 
Cominius  say  of  Coriolanus  : 

"  At  sixteen  years, 
When  Tarquin  made  a  head  from  Rome,  he  fought 

Beyond  the  mark  of  others 

He  proved  best  man  i'  the  field,  and  for  his  meed 
Was  brow-bound  with  the  oak." 

Lucan  refers  still  more  distinctly  to  the  custom : 

"Lelius  from  amidst  the  rest  stood  forth, 
An  old  centurion  of  distinguished  worth; 


Oak.  315 

The  oaken  wreath  his  hardy  temples  wore, 
Mark  of  a  citizen  preserved  he  bore." 

This  crown — considered  the  most  honourable  of  all  those 
with  which  the  Romans  rewarded  famous  military  deeds — was 
awarded  to  Cicero  for  his  detection  of  Catiline's  conspiracy. 
When  a  similar  chaplet  was  decreed  to  Scipio  Africanus  for 
having  preserved  his  father's  life  in  the  battle  of  Trebia,  he 
declined  the  honour,  deeming  the  act  carried  with  it  its  own 
reward.    Oh,  what  men  those  noble  Romans  were  ! 

The  civic  crown,  as  this  oaken  wreath  was  called,  conferred 
many  honours  upon  its  possessor:  when  he  entered  an  assembly, 
every  one  present,  not  even  excepting  the  senators  themselves, 
were  bound  to  rise  ;  he  was  exempt  from  all  kinds  of  civil 
burdens,  and  enjoyed  many  other  desirable  rights. 

In  marriage  ceremonies,  also,  the  oak  performed  its  part : 

**  With  boughs  of  oak  was  graced  the  nuptial  train." 

Much  as  the  Hellenic  and  Latin  races  used  and  admired 
this  sturdy  tree,  however,  it  is  the  records  of  the  Teutonic  and 
Celtic  nations  that  must  be  investigated  in  order  to  find  how 
sacred  a  character  it  anciently  bore  :  it  was  under  the  semblance 
of  the  oak  that  those  peoples  adored  theic  god  Tuet,  and  the 
ancient  Britons  (a  kindred  folk)  Tarnawa,  their  God  of  Thunder. 
It  was  likewise  under  the  form  of  an  oak  that  Baal,  the  Celtic 
God  of  Fire,  was  worshipped  :  the  festival  of  this  deity  was 
kept  at  Yule,  the  present  Christmas,  and  on  the  anniversary 
the  Druids  caused  all  the  fires  belonging  to  the  people  to  be 
extinguished,  and  then  re-lighted  them  from  their  own  sacred 
fire,  which  they  professed  to  keep  perpetually  burning.  This 
rite  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  origin  of  the  Yule-log,  the 
kindling  of  which  at  Christmas  is  still  kept  up  in  many  parts 
of  the  country.  This  log  was  invariably  of  oak ;  and,  as  the 
ancient  Britons  believed  that  it  was  essential  for  their  hearth- 
fires  to  be  renewed  annually  from  the  Druids'  sacred  fire,  so 
their  descendants  firmly  believed  that  some  misfortune  would 
occur  to  them  if  they  omitted  their  ancestors'  custom  of  burn- 
ing the  Christmas  log. 

It  was  beneath  the  shadow  of  some  mighty  oak  that  the 
Druids  were  wont  to  perform  their  worship,  and  when  they 
offered  up  human  sacrifices,  their  victims  were  crowned  with 


3i6  Oak. 

wreaths  of  oak-leaves :  the  curious-shaped  baskets  in  which 
they  were  immolated,  and  which  bore  no  little  resemblance  to 
those  still  worn  by  ''  Jack-in-the-green  "  upon  May-day,  were 
manufactured  of  oaken  twigs  quaintly  interwoven,  and  even 
the  very  brands  with  which  the  sacrificial  fires  were  kindled 
were  required  to  be  of  oak. 

It  was  beneath  the  branches  of  this  same  renowned  tree  that 
their  criminal  trials  were  held,  the  judge  and  jury  being  seated 
under  the  sacred  shade,  and  the  culprit  placed  in  a  circle  made 
by  the  chief  Druid's  wand.  With  the  Saxons  the  oak  retained 
its  sacred  character  :  beneath  it  they  held  their  national  meet- 
ings ;  and  it  was  below  the  oaks  of  Dartmoor  that  they  had 
their  famous  conference  with  the  Britons,  whose  country  they 
were  invading. 

Many  of  these  magnificent  sylvan  princes  have  attained  in 
England  a  fame  truly  national.  Everybody  knew  of  ''  Heme's 
moon-silvered  oak,"  and  no  one  could  restrain  a  sigh  of  regret 
when  it  was  announced  that  its  time-honoured  stem  had 
succumbed  to  the  onslaughts  of  Time.  Three  venerable  oaks 
in  Donnington  Park,  spoken  of  by  Martyn,  were  believed  to 
have  been  planted  by  Chaucer ;  the  famous  oak  at  Morley,  in 
Cheshire,  supposed,  to  have  existed  upwards  of  eight  hundred 
years,  tradition  asserted  once  afTorded  shelter  to  Edward  the 
Black  Prince ;  Evelyn  tells  of  one  of  these  denizens  of  our 
ancient  woodlands,  growing  at  Rycote,  which  was  able  to 
afford  a  cover  to  upwards  of  four  thousand  men.  The  circum- 
ference of  the  boughs  of  the  celebrated  Fairlop  Fair  Oak  was 
three  hundred  feet,  and  that  of  its  massive  trunk  thirty-six  ; 
whilst  the  stem  of  Queen  Elizabeth's  Oak,  in  Suffolk,  measured 
thirty-seven  feet  round  :  "  Good  Queen  Bess,"  as  some  folks 
like  to  term  her,  is  reported  to  have  often  taken  her  stand 
beneath  its  wide-spreading  arms,  in  order  to  shoot  at  the  deer 
as  they  fled  timidly  by. 

There  is,  or  was  some  few  years  since,  on  the  road  to  Tun- 
bridge,  an  enormous  tree,  known  as  Fisher's  Oak,  and  within 
its  hospitable  trunk  thirteen  men  on  horseback  are  said  to 
have  found  shelter :  it  is  also  recorded  that  when  James  I. 
was  travelling  along  that  road,  a  schoolmaster  of  the  neigh- 
bourhood, and  a  great  number  of  his  pupils,  decked  with  oaken 
garlands,  came  out  of  this  tree,  and  greeted  the  King  with  an 
appropriate  address. 


Oak.  3 1 7 

One  of  the  most  renowned  and  belauded  trees  ever  known 
was  the  famous  oak  at  Penshurst,  planted  at  the  birth  of  Sir 
Phihp  Sidney.  Ben  Jonson,  Waller,  and  many  other  famous 
poets  have  sung  its  praises  ;  but,  alas  !  having  been  associated 
with  bravery  and  beauty  for  upwards  of  two  centuries,  by  a 
deed  of  stupid  ignorance  it  was  felled  ! 

One  of  the  largest  known  specimens  of  these  grand  repre- 
sentatives of  hospitality  was  probably  Damory's  Oak  in  Dorset- 
shire, the  trunk  of  which  measured  sixty-eight  feet  round,  and 
was  capable  of  sheltering  twenty  persons  in  its  capacious 
interior.  In  Cromwell's  time  it  was  inhabited  by  an  old  man 
who  sold  ale  to  passers-by.  In  1755,  when  it  was  only  useful 
for  firewood,  its  time-worn  remains  realized  ;^I4.  It  was 
doubtless  such  a  grand  old  shelter  as  this  that  suggested 
these  lines : 

**  If  keen  blow  the  wind,  and  if  fast  the  rain  fall, 
The  storm  and  the  tempest  we  heed  not  at  all ; 
Though  fifty  stout  fellows,  bold  yeomen,  are  we, 
There  is  plenty  of  room  in  this  hollow  oak-tree." 

Another  famous  oak  was  that  at  Boscobel,  which  sheltered 
Prince,  afterwards  King,  Charles,  after  his  defeat  at  Worcester. 
The  dissolute  and  ungrateful  monarch  is  stated  to  have  subse- 
quently visited  his  sylvan  preserver,  and  to  have  taken  off  some 
of  its  acorns  and  planted  them  in  St.  James's  Park.  Some 
people,  who  do  not  object  to  anything  likely  to  conduce  to 
holiday-making,  are  fond  of  wearing  oak-apples  in  their  hats 
on  the  29th  of  May,  the  anniversary  of  the  prince's  escape. 

Associated  with  more  venerable  memories  are  the  remains 
of  Wallace's  Oak,  in  Stirling.  It  is  presumed  to  have  been 
the  largest  tree  ever  known  in  Scotland :  around  it  are  signs 
of  a  Druidic  circle,  but  its  principal  sanctity  arises  from  the 
legend  that  under  its  once  great  shadow  Sir  William  Wallace 
was  accustomed  to  hold  the  head-quarters  of  his  army. 

It  is  said  that  there  is  a  tree  in  the  New  Forest,  called  the 
Cadenham  Oak,  which  buds  annually  in  the  winter,  and  that 
the  country-people  assert  of  it,  as  they  do  of  the  Glastonbury 
thorn,  that  it  buds  only  on  Christmas-day — a  truly  appro- 
priate emblem  of  the  hospitality,  peace,  and  goodwill  usually 
so  widely  spread  and  generally  felt  amongst  all  Christian  men 
on  that  day  of  good  tidings. 


J^<^^ 


Convolvulus. 

(NIGHT.) 

"  The  night 
Of  cloudless  climes  and  starry  skies," 

NEVER  had  a  more  beautiful  emblem  of  its  majestic  love- 
liness assigned  to  it  than  when  the  florigraphists  chose 
the  Convolvulus  for  its  representative  in  their  science  of  sweet 
things. 

The  Major  Convolvulus,  symbolic  of  extmguished  hopes,  is  a 
native  of  America ;  and  the  Minor  Convolvulus,  typifying  repose^ 
of  Southern  Europe  :  the  flowers  of  this  latter  variety  are  some- 
times pure  white,  but  more  frequently  are  variegated  with  blue 
and  yellow,  or  blue  and  white :  one  very  beautiful  kind  is  a 
bright  blue,  fading,  by  delicate  gradations,  to  a  pure  white  in 
the  centre,  and  resembles  that  blue  atmosphere,  relieved  by 
fleecy  clouds,  when,  as  Keats  says, 

"  On  high, 
Through  clouds  of  fleecy  white  laughs  the  cerulean  sky. " 

Nor  is  the  form  of  this  flower  less  lovely  than  its  colour,  either 
when  spread  out  in  full  beauty  to  catch  the  kisses  of  its  bosom 
lord,  the  sun,  or  when,  at  the  stealthy  approach  of  that  star- 
covered  dame  of  which  it  is  the  peerless  symbol,  it  droops  its 
graceful  neck  and  shuts  its  bright  blue  eye. 

In  the  suburbs  of  the  Eternal  City — the  seven-hilled  Rome 
— difl"erent  species  of  the  convolvulus  fling  their  many-hued 
wreaths  round  the  hedges,  in  some  parts  decorating  both 
sides  of  the  road  for  several  miles  with  a  gallant  array  of 
bright  leaves  and  brighter  flowers,  and  the  Italians,  who  pas- 
sionately love  the  beauteous  plant,  are  fond  of  ornamenting 
their  verandahs  with  its  clinging  wreaths.  The  Dwarf  Con- 
volvulus, used  to  typify  the  axiom  that  love  levels  all,  is  also  a 
native  of  the  southern  portions  of  Europe  ;  its  fragile  blossoms 
are  of  "  rosy  red,  Love's  proper  hue." 

The  English  wild  varieties  of  this  most  graceful  of  all  plants 
are  commonly  called  "  bindweeds,"  and  of  these  the  Field  Con- 
volvulus is  the  best  known.  Its  sweet-scented  blossoms,  which 
emit  an  almond-scented  odour,  are  mostly  striped  with  white 
and  rose-colour,  but  sometimes  are  of  a  yellow  hue ;  its  deli- 


CONVOL  VUL  US.  319 


cate  green  leaves  are  very  slight  and  fragile,  giving  the  plant 
a  general  appearance  of  frailty.  And  this,  added  to  the  know- 
ledge that  its  flowers  last  only  one  day,  render  it  a  very  ap- 
propriate emblem  of  fleeting  joys.  It  is  a  great  favourite  with 
little  country  lasses,  who  love  to  twine  a  wreath  of  its  delicate 
leaves  and  blossoms  round  their  hats,  or  twist  it  about  their 
flaxen  tresses. 

The  large  white  bindweed  or  bearbine  is  another  lovely 
member  of  this  beautiful  family,  and,  like  its  relatives,  pos- 
sesses the  singular  property  of  denoting  the  sun's  course  by 
twining  in  opposition  to  the  path  of  day's  luminary,  from  right 
to  left,  and  it  is  stated  that,  so  tenacious  is  it  of  following  its 
natural  bias,  that  should  it  be  diverted  from  it  beyond  possi- 
bility of  resuming  its  way,  it  will  perish.  This  flower  loves  to 
haunt  humid  spots,  and  may  often  be  seen  elegantly  festoon- 
ing a  row  of  drooping  willows  with  its  light  fetters.  Country 
people,  too  accustomed  to  the  loveliness  of  its  large  white 
flowers  to  poetise  over  them,  call  them  "  old  man's  nightcap." 
St.  Pierre,  most  delightful  of  botanists,  had  a  great  admiration 
for  the  bearbine;  and  well  might  any  lover  of  nature,  for  its 
blossoms  are  exceeded  by  none  in  purity  of  whiteness  or  beauty 
of  outline,  nor  are  its  heart-shaped  leaves  outrivalled  by  any 
in  handsomeness.  Never  did  maiden  select  a  lovelier  coronal 
with  which  to  wreathe  her  brow  than  this : 

**  Thy  brow  we  '11  twine  In  sunny  showers 

With  white  bearbine,  Its  wand'ring  flowers 

And  'mid  thy  glossy  tresses  Shall  wind  their  wild  caresses." 

We  are  too  familiar  with  the  loveliness  of  these  wildings 
of  nature  to  duly  appreciate  them;  they  are  "too  much  with 
us "  to  receive  their  due  meed  of  praise :  were  they  newly 
imported  from  some  tropical  clime,  their  novelty  would  startle 
us  into  enthusiasm,  and  their  merits  would  be  everywhere 
loudly  proclaimed  ;  and  yet  we  ever  find  the  poet — that  voice 
of  a  people's  soul  —  hymning  the  glories  of  his  native  wild 
flowers,  to  the  almost  total  exclusion  of  their  more  polished 
sisterhood — the  florists'  flowers.  ''Lives  there  a  man  with 
soul  so  dead,"  who,  in  gazing  upon  the  blooming  fields  and 
woodlands  of  his  native  land,  does  not  feel  that  those  blossoms 
before  him  are  indeed 

"  Bright  missals  from  angelic  throngs"? 


Sunflower. 

(FALSE      RICHES.) 

•'  A  foolish  mimic  sun." 

Robert  Browning. 

GERARDE,  in  his  "  Herbal,"  and  other  old  writers  termed 
this  flower  the  "sun  marygold;"  they  also  indiscrimi- 
nately called  marygolds  "  sunflowers,"  and  vice  versa.  Some- 
times the  Stiiiflower  is  styled  turnsol,  from  the  common  belief 
that  its  blossoms  always  turn  towards  the  sun  ;  and  that  they 
do  not — despite  its  being  termed  "a  vulgar  error" — is  not 
proven.  Be  this  idea  true  or  false,  the  poets,  no  mean  autho- 
rities— have  adopted  the  popular  side,  and  thrown  their  valu- 
able testimony  into  the  scale.  Darwin,  even  better  known  as 
a  botanist  than  a  poet,  says  that  the  sunflower 

"  Climbs  the  upland  lawn, 
And  bows  in  homage  to  the  rising  dawn, 
Imbibes  with  eagle  eye  the  golden  ray, 
And  watches,  as  it  moves,  the  orb  of  day." 

Thomson  tells  us  that  though  as  a  rule  the  flowery  race 
resign  their  new-flushed  bloom  before  the  passing  beam,  one, 

"  The  lofty  follower  of  the  sun, 

Sad  when  he  sets,  shuts  up  her  yellow  leaves. 
Drooping  all  night,  and,  when  he  warm  returns, 
Points  her  enamour'd  bosom  to  his  ray." 

In  his  "  Irish  Melodies  "  Moore  has  the  comparison — 

'*  As  the  sunflower  turns  to  her  god  when  he  sets 
The  same  look  which  she  tum'd  when  he  rose." 

The  Spaniards,  who  share  "the  vulgar  error,"  in  common 
with  most  of  their  continental  neighbours,  have,  in  their  Len- 
gua  de  Flores,  adopted  this  flower  as  the  emblem  of  faith,  and 
one  of  their  poets  thus  addresses  it : 


I 


SUNFLO  WER.  321 


*'  Real  faith  is  like  the  sun's  fair  flower, 
Which  'midst  the  clouds  that  shroud  it,  and  the  winds 
That  wave  it  to  and  fro,  and  all  the  change 
Of  air,  and  earth,  and  sky,  doth  rear  its  head. 
And  looketh  up,  still  steadfast,  to  its  God," 

The  classic  legend  of  Clytle  has  been  attached  to  the  sun- 
flower. That  nymph  had  been  beloved  by  the  fickle  Helios, 
but  it  was  not  long  before  he  transferred  his  affections  to 
Leucothoe,  daughter  of  King  Orchamus.  When  Clytie  found 
herself  unable  to  regain  her  lover,  she  informed  the  Persian 
monarch  of  his  daughter's  love  affair,  and  he  had  the  unfor- 
tunate girl  entombed  alive.  Helios,  enraged  at  the  terrible 
tragedy,  entirely  forsook  the  nymph  whose  jealousy  had  caused 
it ;  and  she,  overwhelmed  with  grief,  lay  prone  upon  the  earth 
for  nine  days  and  nights  without  any  sustenance^  her  eyes 
continually  following  the  course  of  her  adored  sun  through 
the  heavens.  At  last  the  gods,  less  pitiless  than  her  former 
admirer,  transformed  her  into  a  sunflower,  and,  as  Ovid  says  : 

**  Still  the  loved  object  the  fond  leaves  pursue, 
Still  move  their  root,  the  moving  sun  to  view." 

There  is  a  smaller  sunflower,  the  botanical  name  for  which 
is  Helenium,  derived  from  Helen  of  Troy,  from  whose  tears  it 
was  supposed  to  have  sprung.  Drummond,  in  his  lines  upon 
the  death  of  Prince  Henry,  thus  alludes  to  it : 

*'  And  thou,  O  flower!  of  Helen's  tears  that's  bom, 
Into  those  liquid  pearls  again  now  turn." 

A  work  on  floral  caligraphy  says  that  this  blossom  has  been 
made  the  symbol  of  false  riches,  because  gold,  of  which  the 
sunflower  is  so  suggestive,  cannot  of  itself,  however  abundant 
it  may  be,  render  a  person  truly  rich ;  and  thereupon  the  writer 
recounts  the  story  of  Pythes.  He  was  a  Lydian,  and  being 
possessed  of  immense  mineral  wealth,  neglected  the  cultivation 
of  his  lands.  His  wife,  in  order  to  prove  to  him  the  inutility 
of  such  riches  as  he  prized,  when  he  sat  down  to  dine  had  all 
the  dishes  filled  with  golden  imitations  of  the  various  eatables. 
When  the  covers  were  removed,  this  sensible  woman  said  to 
the  assembled  guests,  "  I  set  before  you  such  fare  as  we  have, 
for  we  cannot  reap  what  we  do  not  sow."  The  lesson  produced 
due  impression  upon  Pythes,  and,  it  is  said,  he  did  not  fail  to 
profit  by  it. 

21 


322  SUNFLO  WER. 


The  sunflower  is  said  to  have  been  much  reverenced  in  its 
native  country  of  Peru  on  account  of  the  resemblance  borne 
by  its  broad  disc  and  surrounding  rays  to  the  sun,  which  lumi- 
nary was  worshipped  by  the  Peruvians.  In  their  Temple  of 
the  Sun,  the  priestesses  when  officiating  were  crowned  with 
sunflowers  of  pure  gold  ;  they  also  wore  them  in  their  bosoms, 
and  carried  them  in  their  hands.  The  Spanish  invaders  were 
astonished  at  the  profuse  display  of  gold,  and  when  they  first 
beheld  whole  prairies  of  these  flowers  in  blossom,  fancied  that 
they  were  composed  of  the  same  precious  metal. 

St.  Pierre  says  the  turnsol  turns  continually  towards  the 
sun,  and  covers  itself — like  Peru,  the  country  from  which  it 
comes — with  dewy  clouds,  which  cool  and  refresh  its  flowers 
during  the  most  violent  heat  of  the  day. 

In  Mexico  and  Peru  the  sunflower  is  said  to  attain  a  height 
of  twenty  feet  and  upwards,  and  to  produce  blossoms  two  feet 
in  diameter. 

Old  Gerarde  states  that  in  his  garden  at  Holborn  he  pro- 
duced this  plant,  which  he  styles  "  the  Flower  of  the  Sunne,  or 
the  Marigolde  of  Peru  ;"  that  it  grew  to  the  height  of  fourteen 
feet,  and  bore  flowers  sixteen  inches  across. 

The  size  and  brilliance  of  these  flowers  have  gained  for  them 
the  epithet  of  "gaudy."  Maturin,  placing  them  amid  a  mob 
of  blossoms,  says  : 

"The  gaudy  Orient  sunflower  from  the  crowd 
Uplifts  its  golden  circle." 

The  sunflower  may  be  too  showy  for  a  bouquet,  but  for  back- 
grounds it  is  a  most  effective  ornament,  and  indeed,  frequently 
forms  the  most  attractive  decoration  of  a  rustic  cottage  or  a 
garden  wall.     Says  poor  Clare  : 

**  And  sunflowers  planting  for  their  gilded  show, 
That  scale  the  window's  lattice  ere  they  blow ; 
Then,  sweet  to  habitants  within  the  sheds, 
Peep  through  the  diamond  panes  their  golden  heads." 

Robert  Browning  thus  alludes  to  the  story  of  Rudel,  the 
ancient  French  poet,  who  adopted  this  splendid  blossom  as 
his  emblem : 

'*  I  know  a  mount,  the  gracious  sun  perceives 
First  when  he  visits,  last,  too,  when  he  leaves 


i 


Sunflower. 


323 


The  world  ;  and,  vainly  favoured,  it  repays 

The  day-long  glory  of  his  steadfast  gaze 

By  no  change  of  its  large,  calm  front  of  snow. 

And  underneath  the  mount  a  flower  I  know, 

He  cannot  have  perceived,  that  changes  ever 

At  his  approach  ;  and,  in  the  lost  endeavour 

To  live  his  life,  has  parted,  one  by  one. 

With  all  a  flower's  true  graces,  for  the  grace 

Of  being  but  a  foolish  mimic  sun. 

With  ray-like  florets  round  a  disc-like  face. 

Men  nobly  call  by  many  a  name  the  mount, 

As  over  many  a  land  of  theirs  its  large 

Calm  front  of  snow,  like  a  triumphal  targe. 

Is  reared  ;  and  still  with  old  names  fresh  ones  vie, 

Each  to  its  proper  praise  and  own  account. 

Men  call  the  flower  the  sunflower,  sportively." 


21— -2 


Laurel. 

(GLORY.) 


Bay. 

(FAME.) 


*'  We  crown  with  the  laurel  wreath 
The  hero-god,  the  soldier  chief." 


Eliza  Cook. 


"Sweet  bay-tree,  symbol  of  the  song  that  dreaming  poet  sings." 

Ibid. 

"The  victor's  garland,  and  the  poet's  crown." 

W.  Browne. 

HOWEVER  easy  a  task  it  may  be  for  the  botanist,  to  the 
florigraphist  it  is  a  work  of  almost  insurmountable 
difficulty  to  distinguish  the  Laurel  from  the  Bay,  so  inextri- 
cably are  they  combined.  There  appears  to  be  little  doubt 
that  the  tree  really  selected  to  typify  glory  is  the  Sweet  Bay, 
or  Daphne ;  whilst  the  laurel,  commonly  so  called,  belongs  to 
another  genus,  and  is  scientifically  known  as  Prtimis,  a  word 
presumedly  of  Asiatic  origin. 

The  sweet  bay  was  deemed  by  both  Greeks  and  Romans 
emblematic  of  victory  and  clemency.  The  glories  of  all  grand 
deeds  were  signalized  by  means  of  laurel  crowns  ;  its  leaves 
were  deemed  very  efficacious  in  the  prevention  of  illness,  and 
its  shelter  was  believed  to  ward  off  lightning. 

The  emblem  oi  fame  well  deserves  its  cognomen  of  "  sweet," 
the  exquisite  fragrance  exhaled  by  its  leaves,  especially  when 
crushed,  is  well  known.  This  odoriferous  plant  was  worn  by 
the  Delphic  priestesses  when  engaged  in  their  sacrificial  rites, 
during  which  time  they  were  accustomed  to  chew  some  of  the 
leaves  and  strew  them  on  the  sacred  fire.  The  brows  of  war- 
riors and  poets,  orators  and  philosophers,  sovereigns  and  priests, 
were  all  adorned  with  wreaths  of  these  leaves.  At  the  Pythian 
games — held  in  commemoration  of  Apollo's  victory  over  the 
Python — a  crown  of  laurel  was  the  prize.   The  statue  of  ^scu- 


Laurel.     Bay.  325 


lapius,  the  son  of  Apollo,  the  God  of  Physic  as  well  as  of  Music, 
was  adorned  with  its  leaves;  a  custom,  doubtless,  adopted  to 
propitiate  that  deity,  who,  as  Potter  in  his  ''  Grecian  Antiqui- 
ties "  happily  remarks,  would  assuredly  guard  from  injury  any 
place  where  he  found  the  emblem  of  his  beloved  Daphne. 

Physicians  held  the  bay  in  great  esteem,  and  doubtless  from 
its  associations,  considered  it  a  panacea.  When  any  person  was 
seized  with  a  dangerous  illness,  it  was  customary  with  the  Greeks 
to  fix  a  branch  of  laurel  over  the  doorway,  in  order  to  avert 
death  and  drive  away  evil  spirits.  It  is  supposed  that  from 
these  practices  arose  the  fashion  of  crowning  young  doctors  of 
physic  with  laurel-berries  (bacca  lauri)^  whence  is  derived  the 
terms  of  "bachelor^'  and  "laureate."  "Students,^'  says  Mr. 
Phillips,  in  his' "  Sylva  Florifera,"  "  who  have  taken  their  de- 
grees at  the  Universities,  are  called  bachelors,  from  the  PVench 
bachelier,  which  is  derived  from  the  Latin  baccalaureus,  a  laurel- 
berry.  These  students  were  not  allowed  to  marry,  lest  their 
duties  of  husband  and  father  should  take  them  from  their 
literary  pursuits  ;  and  in  time  all  single  men  were  called  ba- 
chelors." In  "■  Flora  Domestica,^'  Miss  Kent  very  pointedly  ' 
remarks  that  the  term  of  *'  bachelors "  has,  with  some  pro- 
priety, "  been  extended  to  single  men,  as  the  male  and  female 
berries  do  not  grow  on  the  same  plant ;  and  it  seems  we  might, 
with  equal  correctness,  bestow  the  name  upon  unmarried 
ladies." 

Theophrastus  tells  us  that  the  superstitious  man  of  his  time 
was  accustomed  to  keep  a  bay-leaf  in  his  mouth  all  day,  to 
preserve  him  from  misfortunes ;  whilst  Theocritus  says  that  it 
was  usual  with  lovers  to  burn  laurel  as  a  means  of  exciting 
love  in  the  bosoms  of  those  on  whom  they  had  fixed  their 
affection. 

Hardy  and  flourishing  as  the  bay-tree  appears,  when  it 
withers,  it  withers  very  rapidly  ;  and  this  circumstance  ren- 
ders it  likely  that  the  following  allusion  in  the  Thirty-seventh 
Psalm  applies  to  this  tree  :  "■  I  have  seen  the  wicked  in  great 
power,  and  spreading  himself  like  a  green  bay-tree.  Yet  he 
passed  away,  and  lo,  he  was  not ;  yea,  I  sought  him,  but  he 
could  not  be  found." 

Formerly  this  rapid  decay  of  the  bay-tree  was  considered  an 
omen  of  disaster ;  and  it  is  stated  that,  previous  to  the  death 


326  Laurel.      Ba  y. 


of  Nero — an  event,  one  would  have  thought,  the  opposite  to 
ominous — though  the  winter  was  very  mild,  all  these  trees 
withered  to  the  root,  and  that  a  great  pestilence  in  Padua  was 
preceded  by  the  same  phenomenon.  The  laurel  had  so  great 
a  reputation  for  clearing  the  air  and  averting  contagious  com- 
plaints, that  during  a  raging  plague,  Claudius  was  advised  by 
his  physicians  to  remove  his  Court  to  Laurentium,  so  celebrated 
for  its  laurels.  It  had  also  the  power  ascribed  to  it  of  being  a 
safeguard  against  lightning,  of  which  Tiberius  was  very  fear- 
ful ;  and,  in  order  to  avoid  which,  it  is  said,  would  creep  under 
his  bed,  and  shade  his  head  with  laurel  boughs. 

This  superstitious  idea  survived  to  recent  times.  William 
Browne  tells  us  that  "  bays,  being  the  materials  of  poets'  gar- 
lands, are  supposed  not  subject  to  any  hurt  of  Jupiter's  thunder- 
bolts, as  other  trees  are  ; "  and  also  sings  : 

*' Where  bays  still  grow,  by  thunder  not  struck  down, 
The  victor's  garland  and  the  poet's  crown," 

Of  course,  old  Culpepper — who  would  have  fully  compre- 
hended the  meaning  of  his  significant  name  had  he  written  in 
these  days  of  all-powerful  criticism — did  not  overlook  this 
curious  belief,  and  accordingly  we  find  him  expatiating  in  his 
usual  quaint  style  upon  this  tree  :  "  Resisting  witchcraft  very 
potently,  as  also  all  the  evils  old  Saturn  can  do  the  body  of 
man,  and  they  are  not  a  few ;  for  it  is  the  speech  of  one — and 
I  am  mistaken  if  it  were  not  Mizaldus — that  neither  witch  nor 
devil,  thunder  nor  lightning,  will  hurt  a  man  where  a  bay-tree 
is.  .  .  .  The  berries  are  very  effectual  against  all  poisons  of 
venomous  creatures,  as  also  against  the  pestilence,  and  other 
infectious  diseases." 

This  presumed  power  of  averting  lightning  is  alluded  to  in 
the  device  of  the  Count  de  Dunois,  which  Madame  de  Genlis 
mentions  as  being  a  bay-tree,  with  the  motto,  "  I  defend  the 
earth  that  bears  me ;  "  and  Leigh  Hunt,  in  his  "  Descent  of 
Liberty,"  thus  adverts  to  the  belief: 

*  Long  have  you  my  laurels  worn,  Only  would  you  keep  it  brightening 

And  though  some  under-leaves  be  torn  And  its  power   to  shake  the  light- 
Here  and  there,  yet  what  remains  ning 

Still  its  pointed  green  retains,  Harmless  down  its  glossy  ears, 

And  still  an  easy  shade  supplies  Suffer  not  so  many  years 

To  your  calm-kept  watchful  eyes.  To  try  what  they  can  bend  and  spoiL 


Laurel.      Bay.  327 


The  laurel  bears  the  classic  appellation  of  Daphne,  because 
of  the  ancient  legend  connecting  it  with  the  nymph  of  that 
name,  who,  according  to  Ovid,  was  daughter  of  the  river-god 
Peneus.  Apollo  beheld  her,  and  at  once  became  enamoured  of 
her  beauty ;  but  the  fair  Daphne  fled  from  his  importunities, 
and,  fearful  of  being  caught,  called  to  the  gods  for  assistance  : 
they  answered  her  prayers  by  transforming  her  into  the  laurel. 
Apollo  finding  that  he  held  nothing  but  a  hard  tree  in  his 
embrace,'saluted  its  vivid  green  leaves  with  fond  kisses,  crowned 
his  head  with  its  leaves,  and  ordained  that  ever  after  that  tree 
should  be  sacred  to  his  godhead.   Ovid  thus  recounts  this  fact : 

**  I  espouse  thee  for  my  tree : 
Be  thou  the  prize  of  honour  and  renown ; 
The  deathless  poet  and  the  poem  crown. 
Thou  shalt  the  Roman  festivals  adorn, 
And,  after  poets,  be  by  victors  worn." 

By  the  Romans  this  tree  was  as  mu(^  honoured  as  it  was  by 
their  Hellenic  predecessors.  The  palace  gates  of  the  Caesars 
and  of  the  chief  priests  were  adorned  by  it ;  the  emperors  wore 
it,  and  their  physicians  recommended  it ;  the  generals  were 
crowned  with  it  in  their  triumphal  processions,  at  which  times, 
indeed,  so  far  was  its  symbolism  carried,  that  all  the  flags  and 
warlike  instruments  were  dressed  up  with  it,  and  even  every 
private  soldier  carried  a  sprig  of  it  in  his  hand  ;  also  despatches 
announcing  a  victory  were  wrapped  up  in,  and  ornamented 
with,  leaves  of  bay. 

Even  in  the  middle  ages  these  trees  retained  their  popularity, 
and  thus  we  read  of  famous  poets  having  been  publicly  crowned 
with  wreaths  of  laurel.  We  may,  with  the  authoress  of  "  Flora 
Domestica,"  exclaim,  "  How  many  grand  and  delightful  images 
does  the  very  name  of  this  tree  awaken  in  our  minds  !  The 
warrior  thinks  of  the  victorious  general  returning  in  triumph 
to  his  country,  amidst  the  shouts  of  an  assembled  populace  ; 
the  prince  of  imperial  Caesar,  the  poet,  and  the  man  of  taste 
see  Petrarch  crowned  in  the  Capitol.  Women,  who  are  enthu- 
siastic admirers  of  genius  in  any  shape,  think  of  all  these  by 
turns,  and  almost  wonder  how  Daphne  could  have  had  the 
heart  to  run  so  fast  from  that  most  godlike  of  all  heathen 
gods,  Apollo." 

Spenser  seems  to  have  felt  with  the  weaker  sex  the  slight 


328  Laurel.     Bay. 


shown  to  his  poetic  chief,  for  he  thus  vindictively  speaks  of  the 
cold  nymph : 

**  Proud  Daphne,  scorning  Phoebus'  lovely  fire, 
On  the  Thessalian  shore  from  him  did  flee; 
For  which  the  gods,  in  their  revengeful  ire, 
Did  her  transform  into  a  laurel-tree. " 

The  Abbe  St.  Pierre  observes  that  the  laurel  grows  in  abun- 
dance on  the  banks  of  the  river  Peneus,  in  Thessaly,  which 
might  well  give  occasion  to  the  fable  of  the  metamorphosis  of 
Daphne,  the  daughter  of  that  river's  deity. 

Virgil  celebrates  the  filial  affection  of  this  tree,  remarking 
that  the  little  Bay  of  Parnassus  shelters  itself  under  the  great 
shade  of  its  mother  ;  and  Evelyn  observes  that,  whilst  young, 
this  tree  will  not  thrive  well  but  under  its  mother's  shade, 
where  nothing  else  will  thrive. 

Petrarch  never  wearies  of  celebrating  the  praises  of  this  tree, 
invariably  associating  it  with  the  name  of  his  beloved  Laura ; 
and  he  acknowledged  it  to  have  been  one  of  the  greatest 
delights  he  ever  experienced,  when,  as  he  was  crowned  with  it 
at  Rome,  he  thought  how  often  he  had  connected  its  beauties 
with  the  name  of  his  heart's  darling. 

Tasso  also  coupled  this  tree  with  his  lady-love  ;  and  the 
following  lines  are  a  prettily-rendered  translation  of  a  lyric  he 
addressed  to  a  laurel-leaf  in  her  hair  : 

"  O  glad  triumphal  bough, 
That  now  adornest  conquering  chiefs,  and  now 
Clippest  the  brows  of  overruling  kings : 

From  victory  to  victory 
Thus  climbing  on,  through  all  the  heights  of  story. 
From  worth  to  worth,  and  glory  unto  glory ; 

To  finish  all,  O  gentle  and  royal  tree. 
Thou  reignest  now  upon  that  flourishing  head, 
At  whose  triumphant  eyes  Love  and  our  souls  are  led." 

Our  English  poets  have  not  omitted  to  render  all  due 
honours  to  this  famous  tree.  Chaucer  bestows  the  laurel  upon 
the  Knights  of  the  Round  Table,  the  raiadins  of  Charlemagne, 
and  some  other  heroes  of  antiquity, 

**  That  in  their  times  did  right  worthily. 
***** 
For  one  lefe  given  of  that  noble  tree 
To  any  wight  that  hath  done  worthily 
Is  more  honour  than  anything  erthly. " 


Laurel.     Bay.  329 


It  has  been  observed  that  Chaucer  alludes  to  the  genuine 
Parnassian  laurel,  and  not  to  the  usurper  of  the  title,  since  he 
speaks  of  its  delicious  odour. 

Eliza  Cook,  in  her  symbolic  poem  of  "  The  Wreaths,"  speaks 
of  both: 

*'  Whom  do  we  crown  with  the  laurel-leaf? 
The  hero-god,  the  soldier  chief; 
But  we  dream  of  the  crushing  cannon-wheel, 
Of  the  flying  shot  and  the  reeking  steel, 
Of  the  crimson  plain  where  warm  blood  smokes, 
Where  clangour  deafens  and  sulphur  chokes ; 
Oh,  who  can  love  the  laurel  wreath. 
Pluck 'd  from  the  gory  field  of  death  ? 

«  «  *  «  ^  j# 

**  But  there  's  a  green  and  fragrant  leaf 
Betokens  nor  revelry,  blood,  nor  grief; 
'T  is  the  purest  amaranth  springing  below, 
And  rests  on  the  calmest,  noblest  brow. 
It  is  not  the  right  of  the  monarch  or  lord, 
Nor  purchased  by  gold,  nor  won  by  the  sword; 
For  the  lowliest  temples  gather  a  ray 
Of  quenchless  light  from  the  palm  of  bay. 

**  Oh,  beautiful  bay !  I  worship  thee — 
I  homage  thy  wreath — I  cherish  thy  tree ; 
And  of  all  the  chaplets  Fame  may  deal, 
'T  is  only  to  this  one  I  would  kneel. 
For  as  Indian  fly  to  the  banian  branch, 
When  tempests  lower  and  thunders  launch. 
So  the  spirit  may  turn  from  crowds  and  strife, 
And  seek  from  the  bay-wreath  joy  and  life." 

This  popular  poetess  has  also  a  thoroughly  emblematical 
poem  to  her  favourite  bay-tree  in  her  last  collection  of  poems. 


<«""C^^i(y?^^3y^ 


The  Floral  Oracle. 


OF  all  the  various  symbolic  uses  to  which  flowers  have 
been  put,  none  probably  have  afforded  more  amuse- 
ment than  The  Floral  Oracle.  The  system  of  divination 
practised  by  means  of  these  beautiful  objects  undergoes  various 
modifications  in  different  countries,  but  the  following  mode 
will  be  found  to  be  the  simplest  and  most  correct :  Arrange  a 
certain  number  of  flowers  together ;  let  their  names,  and  the 
significations  appropriate  to  them,  be  written  down,  and  then 
let  each  person  select  or  drazv  one  flower  by  lot ;  and  the 
meaning  attached  to  that  blossom  will  typify  the  future  con- 
sort's characteristics.  The  subjoined  list  will  fully  explain  this 
pretty  game : 

Candid. 

A  inbitious. 

Mtisical. 

Hospitable. 

Imaginative. 

Lazy. 

Wealthy. 

Aged. 

Mela  ncholy. 

Stupid. 

Nervous. 

Surly. 

Sarcastic. 

Domineering. 

Self-sacrificing. 

yocular. 

This  catalogue  might  be  considerably  enlarged,  but  as  it  is 
permissible  for  the  manipulator  to  change  the  significations 
when  requisite,  the  above  will  be  quite  sufficient  to  guide  the 
judgment  in  adding  any  other  flowers. 

The  next  portion  of  the  game  is  the  revelation  of  the  in- 
tended's profession  or  occupation,  and  must  be  practised  in 
the  same  method  as  the  first,  thus : 


Rose  (Red)  . 

Affectioftate. 

Violet  (White) 

„     (White) 

.     Modest. 

Hollyhock    . 

„     (Pink).         . 

,         .      Bashful. 

A  Reed. 

„     (Yellow)       . 

,         .      Jealous. 

Oak-leaf 

Aster     .        .        , 

,        .      Fickle. 

Hyacinth 

Pink      . 

,         .      Haughty. 

Poppy  . 

Daisy    .         ,         , 

,        .      Gentle. 

Marygold 

Tulip     . 

,         .      Passionate. 

A  Fig    .        . 

Cornflower    .        , 

,        .     Extravagant. 

Geranium  (Scented) 

Stock     .         .         , 

.      Hasty. 

,,         (Scarlet) 

Jasmine         .         , 

,     A  miable. 

Mimosa 

Heart's-ease. 

.      Thoughtful. 

Thistle  . 

Lily       . 

Graceful. 

Foxglove 

Mezereon      .         , 

.      A  flirt. 

Laurel  . 

Mignonette  . 

Talented. 

Myrtle  . 

Primrose 

Simplicity. 

Thyme . 

A  Lily 

typifies 

A  nobleman. 

A  Laurel-leaf  typifies 

A  poet. 

A  Rose 

An  artist. 

Apple-blossom      ,, 

A  lawyer. 

A  Thistle 

A  soldier. 

Cypress                  „ 

A  doctor. 

An  Oak-leat 

i> 

A  farmer. 

Tuhp                       „ 

A  freeholder. 

CHAXlia    ^IR^V 


The  Floral   Oracle.  331 

This  oracle  cannot  fail  to  excite  much  harmless  mirth ;  but 
some  kinds  of  floral  divinations,  as  these  pages  testify,  have 
oft  produced  deeper  thoughts  and  more  serious  consequences. 

A  favourite  plan  of  attempting  to  peep  into  futurity  by 
means  of  floral  agency  is  practised  by  abstracting  the  petals 
of  flowers,  and  with  each  innocent  floral  theft  using  such  alter- 
nate words  as  those  in  the  following  verses.  It  is  a  custom  of 
considerable  antiquity,  and  is  still  affectionately  preserved  in 
many  different  lands.  A  flower  of  the  aster  kind  is  generally 
made  use  of  for  the  purpose,  although  daisies  and  other  blooms 
occasionally  serve  for  the  same  operations,  and,  there  can  be 
little  doubt,  are  equally  efficacious.  Gothe,  in  the  garden  scene 
of  "  Faust,"  introduces  the  rural  custom  in  order  to  illustrate 
the  childish  simplicity  of  Margaret.  In  a  poem  entitled  "'The 
Decision  of  the  Flower,"  L.  E.  L.  thus  alludes  to  the  incident : 

**  The  maiden  found  her  mystic  flower.  He  loves  not — he  loves  me — he  loves 

'  Now,  gentle  flower,  I  pray  thee  tell  me  not — 

If  my  lover  loves  me,  and  loves  me  well;  He  loves  me — yes,  thou  last  leaf,  yes — 

So  may  the  fall  of  the  morning  dew  I'll  pluck  thee  not  for  that  last  sweet 

Keep  the  sun  from  fading  thy  tender  guess! 

blue.  He  loves  me. '    '  Yes ! '  a  dear  voice  sighed, 

Now  I  number  the  leaves  for  my  lot :  And  her  lover  stands  by  Margaret's  side." 

One  of  those  noble  sons  which  fair  Columbia  hath  sent  forth 
to  hymn  the  praises  of  the  motherland,  James  Lowell — as  true 
a  poet  in  thought  and  word  as  ever  breathed — has  not  soared 
so  high  but  that  he  could  stoop  to  pluck  a  few  terrestrial  blos- 
soms, and  in  these  sweet  fancies,  sent  with  a  pressed  flower, 
finds  pleasant  pensees  in  this  pretty  practice  of  divination : 

*'  This  little  flower  from  afar,  *'  And  thou  must  count  its  petals  well, 
Hath  come  from  other  lands  to  thine ;       Because  it  is  a  gift  from  me ; 
For  once  its  white  and  drooping  star         And  the  last  one  of  all  shall  tell 
Could  see  its  shadow  in  the  Rhine.  Something  I  've  often  told  to  thee. 

**  Perchance  some  fair-haired  German  maid  "But    here   at    home,    where   we   were 
Hath  plucked  one  from  the  self-same         born, 

stalk,  Thou  wilt  find  flowers  just  as  true. 

And  numbered  over,  half  afraid,  Down-bending  every  Summer  morn 

Its  petals  in  her  evening  walk.  With  freshness  of  New  England  dew. 

**  *He  loves  me,  loves  me  not !'  she  cries ;  "For  Nature,  ever  kind  to  love, 

*  He  loves  me  more  than  earth  or  heaven ! '     Hath  granted  them  the  sain e sweet  toiigue. 
And  then  glad  tears  have  filled  her  eyes     Whether  with  German  skies  above, 
To  find  the  number  was  uneven.  Or  here  our  granite  rocks  among. " 


332 


7 HE  Floral   Oracle. 


Browne,  of  "  Pastoral "  fame,  alludes  thus  to  some  olden 
floral  custom : 

' '  The  primroses,  when  with  six  leaves  gotten  grace, 
Maids  as  a  true-love  in  their  bosoms  place. " 

This  custom  is  probably  akin  to  a  curious  old  one  still 
practised  in  some  country  places  with  the  rose:  thus,  on  Mid- 
summer-eve, any  girl  who  wishes  to  peep  into  futurity,  goes 
backwards  in  a  garden,  and,  without  speaking  a  word,  gathers 
a  rose.  She  puts  the  flower  away  in  a  sheet  of  white  paper, 
and  does  not  look  at  it  again  until  Christmas-day,  when  it  will 
be  found  as  fresh  as  in  June.  If  she  then  places  it  in  her  bosom, 
he  that  is  to  be  her  husband  will  come  and  take  it  out ;  but 
if,  prompted  by  curiosity,  she  prys  into  the  packet  before  the 
appointed  time,  the  charm  will  be  broken. 


*'  The  moss-rose  that,  at  fall  of  dew, 
Ere  eve  its  duskier  curtain  drew. 
Was  freshly  gathered  from  its  stem, 
She  values  as  the  ruby  gem ; 
And,  guarded  from  the  piercing  air, 
With  all  an  anxious  lover's  care, 
She  bids  it,  for  her  shepherd's  sake, 
Await  the  New  Year's  frolic  wake — 


When,  faded,  in  its  alter'd  hue 
She  reads  the  rustic  is  untrue; 
But  if  its  leaves  the  crimson  paint. 
Her  sickening  hopes  no  longer  faint. 
The  rose  upon  her  bosom  worn. 
She  meets  him  at  the  peep  of  morn ; 
And  lo  !  her  lips  with  kisses  prest, 
He  plucks  it  from  her  panting  breast." 


In  Owen's  "  Welsh  Dictionary,"  the  natives  of  Cambria  are 
said  to  have  a  play  in  which  the  youth  of  both  sexes  seek  for 
an  even-leaved  sprig  of  the  ash ;  and  the  first  of  either  sex 
that  finds  one  calls  out,  ^^  cyniver!'  and  is  answered  by  the  first 
of  the  other  that  succeeds ;  and  these  two,  if  the  omen  fails  not, 
are  to  be  joined  in  wedlock. 

Gesner,  the  pastoral  poet  and  botanist,  says  that  the  lads 
and  lasses  of  certain  Swiss  villages  proved  the  sincerity  of  their 
lovers  by  placing  a  petal  of  the  poppy-blossom  in  the  hollow 
of  the  left  hand-palm,  and  then  striking  it  with  the  other  hand. 
If  it  broke  with  a  sharp  report,  it  attested  the  fidelity  of  the 
wooer;  whilst  if,  on  the  contrary,  it  failed  to  break,  it  proved 
his  or  her  faithlessness : 

**  By  a  prophetic  poppy-leaf  I  found 
Your  changed  affection,  for  it  gave  no  sound, 
Though  in  my  hand  struck  hollow  as  it  lay ; 
But  quickly  withered,  like  your  love,  away. " 

It  is  the  custom  with  some  young  folks  to  burn  the  holly  and 


The  Floral   Oracle.  333 

other  evergreens  used  for  decoration  at  Christmas,  so  many- 
eves  after  that  national  festival,  and  according  to  the  brilliancy 
and  crackling  of  the  leaves  in  the  fire,  so  do  they  draw  morals 
as  to  the  steadfastness  or  falsehood  of  their  admirers. 

A  writer  on  various  matrimonial  and  amatory  superstitious 
customs,  observes  that  the  belief  in  the  efficacy  of  St.  John's- 
wort  is  very  widely  spread,  and  gives  the  following  version  of 
a  poem  transcribed  from  a  German  publication: 

*   The  young  maid  stole  through  the  cottage  door, 
And  blushed  as  she  sought  the  plant  of  power. 

*  Thou  silver  glowworm,  O  lend  me  thy  light, 

I  must  gather  the  mystic  St.  John's- wort  to-night ; 
The  wonderful  herb,  whose  leaf  will  decide 
If  the  coming  year  shall  make  me  a  bride  ! ' 

And  the  glowworm  came 

With  its  silvery  flame, 

And  sparkled  and  shone 

Thro'  the  night  of  St.  John ; 
And  soon  as  the  young  maid  her  love-knot  tied. 

**  With  noiseless  tread 
To  her  chamber  she  sped, 
Where  the  spectral  moon  her  white  beams  shed. 

*  Bloom  here,  bloom  here,  thou  plant  of  power. 
To  deck  the  young  bride  in  her  bridal  hour ! ' 
But  it  drooped  its  head,  that  plant  of  power. 
And  died  the  mute  death  of  the  voiceless  flower; 
And  a  withered  wreath  on  the  ground  it  lay, 
More  meet  for  a  burial  than  bridal  day. 

And  when  a  year  was  past  away. 

All  pale  on  her  bier  the  young  maid  lay  I 

And  the  glowworm  came 

With  its  silvery  flame, 

And  sparkled  and  shone 

Thro'  the  night  of  St.  John ; 
And  they  closed  the  cold  grave  o'er  the  maid's  cold  clay. " 

Many  other  somewhat  similar  floral  oracles  are  yet  consulted 
in  various  parts  of  the  world,  and  many  somewhat  resemblant 
customs  are  still  practised,  as  will  be  perceived  by  the  student 
of  this  volume,  wherein  may  be  discovered  some  amusing 
modes  of  consulting  these  modern  Sibylline  Leaves,  with  a 
certainty  of  obtaining  oracular  responses. 

There  yet,  however,  remains  some  customs  appertaining  to 
florigraphy  which  must  be  noticed  here,  not  the  least  inte- 
resting of  which  are  those  mysterious  ceremonies  connected 
with  the  festival  of  Saint  Valentine,  the  patron  saint  of  matri- 


334  Ihe  Floral   Oracle. 

monially-inclined  birds  and  lovers  ;  and  upon  the  eve  of  whose 
day — that  sacred  day  to  which  the  crocus  is  dedicated — "  all 
the  rising  generation,"  observes  an  unloveable  author,  ''feel 
that  they  have  reached  the  years  of  ///discretion,  and  think  it 
full  time  for  them  to  fall  in  love,  or  be  fallen  in  love  with. 
Accordingly,  infinite  are  the  crow-quills  that  move  mincingly 
between  embossed  margins, 

*"  And  those  rhyme  now  who  never  rhymed  before, 

And  those  who  always  rhymed  now  rhyme  the  more ! '  " 

As  a  tribute  to  the  saint,  Montgomery  has  placed  the  fol- 
lowing valentine  wreath  upon  the  vernal  shrine  of  the  New 
Year : 

*'  Rosy  red  the  hills  appear  '*  O'er  the  margin  of  the  flood 

With  the  light  of  morning,  Pluck  the  daisy  peeping; 

Beauteous  clouds,  in  aether  clear,  Through  the  covert  of  the  wood 

All  the  east  adorning;  Hunt  the  sorrel  creeping; 

White  through  mist  the  meadows  shine :     With  the  little  celandine 
Wake,  my  love,  my  valentine !  Crown  my  love,  my  valentine ! 

'*  For  thy  locks  of  raven  hue,  *'  Pansies  on  their  lowly  stems 

Flowers  of  hoar-frost  pearly,  Scattered  o'er  the  fallows. 

Crocus-cups  of  gold  and  blue,  Hazel-buds  with  crimson  gems. 

Snowdrops  drooping  early,  Green  and  glossy  sallows. 

With  mezereon-sprigs  combine :  Tufted  moss  and  ivy  twine. 

Rise,  my  love,  my  valentine !  Deck  my  love,  my  valentine ! 

*'  Few  and  simple  flow'rets  these ; 
Yet  to  me  less  glorious 
Garden-beds  and  orchard-trees ! 

Since  this  wreath  victorious 
Binds  you  now  for  ever  mine, 
O  my  love,  my  valentine ! " 

A  very  ancient  custom  in  vogue  on  the  eve  of  the  anxiously- 
awaited  Fourteenth  of  February  is  thus  described  in  the  almost 
forgotten  ''Connoisseur:"  "Last  Friday  was  Valentine's  Day, 
and  the  night  previous  I  got  five  bay-leaves,  and  pinned  four 
of  them  to  the  four  corners  of  my  pillows,  and  the  fifth  to  the 
middle;  and  then,  if  I  dreamt  of  my  sweetheart,  I  was  told 
that  we  should  be  married  before  the  year  was  out."  Whether 
the  fates  proved  propitious  deponent  does  not  state.  Another 
and  more  daring  attempt  to  wrest,  by  means  of  florigraphic 
oracles,  the  secrets  of  futurity,  is  practised  by  country  maidens 
on  St.  Mark's-eve.  Towards  dusk  they  proceed  to  the  church 
porch,  and  there  place  a  bouquet  of  certain  symbolic  flowers 


The  Floral   Oracle.  335 

in  a  position  where  it  may  readily  be  found  in  the  dark;  they 
then  return  home  and  await  the  approach  of  midnight.  Just 
before  twelve  o'clock  strikes  they  once  more  proceed  to  the 
church,  and  the  one  who  seeks  to  learn  her  fate  remains  in  the 
porch  until  the  hour  has  struck :  the  girl's  friends  are  permitted 
to  accompany  her  as  far  as  the  gate  of  the  churchyard,  but 
beyond  that  she  must  perform  her  adventurous  journey  alone. 
When  she  gains  the  bouquet  she  beholds,  if  she  is  to  be  married 
within  the  year,  a  wedding  procession  pass  by,  with  a  bride  in 
her  own  likeness,  walking  with  that  of  her  future  husband :  as 
many  bridesmen  and  maidens  as  she  sees  following  the  bridal 
pair,  so  many  months  will  elapse  before  the  foreshadowed 
wedding.  If  she  is  to  die  unmarried,  then  the  expected  pro- 
cession will  be  a  funeral,  consisting  of  a  coffin  covered  with  a 
white  pall,  and  borne  on  the  shoulders  of  twelve  seeming  head- 
less phantoms. 

In  a  lictipn  attributed  to  Hannah  More,  it  is  related  that, 
among  other  superstitious  practices  of  a  certain  Sally  Evans, 
"  she  would  never  go  to  bed  on  Midsummer-eve  without  stick- 
ing up  in  her  room  the  well-known  plant  called  midsunimer 
mew,  as  the  bending  of  the  leaves  to  the  right  or  to  the  left 
would  never  fail  to  tell  her  whether  her  lover  was  true  or  false." 
The  plant  here  alluded  to  is  better  known  as  orpine,  and  the 
above  custom  is  thus  adverted  to  in  the  "  Cottage  Girl,"  a  poem 
purporting  to  have  been  written  on  Midsummer-eve,  1786: 

*'  The  rustic  maid  invokes  her  swain,  **  Oft  on  the  shrub  she  casts  her  eye, 

And  hails,  to  pensive  damsels  dear,  That  spoke  her  true-love's  secret  sigh, 

This  eve,  though  direst  of  the  year.  Or  else,  alas !  too  plainly  told 

*****  Her  true-love's  faithless  heart  was  cold." 

Such  floral  customs,  as  every  one  knows,  are  not  confined  to 
one  particular  nation  or  one  especial  district,  but  are  practised 
with  unimportant  alterations  in  every  country  of  the  globe, 
and  by  all  peoples. 


.€ 


Typical   Bouquets. 


THE  editor  of  a  well-arranged  language  of  flowers,  chiefly- 
translated  from  the  French,  tells  us  that  in  the  East  a 
bouquet  of  token-flowers,  "ingeniously  selected  and  put  to- 
gether for  the  purpose  of  communicating  in  secret  and  expres- 
sive language  the  sentiments  of  the  heart,  is  called  a  salaa7n, 

or  salutation Written  love-letters  would  often  be 

inadequate  to  convey  an  idea  of  the  feelings  which  are  thus 
expressed  through  the  medium  of  flowers.  Thus  orange- 
blossoms  signify  hope  ;  marygolds,  despair ;  sunflowers,  con- 
stancy ;  roses,  beauty ;  and  tulips  represent  the  complaints  of 
infidelity.  This  hieroglyphic  language  is  known  only  to  the 
lover  and  his  mistress.  In  order  to  envelope  it  more  com- 
pletely in  the  veil  of  secrecy,  the  significations  of  the  different 
flowers  are  changed  in  conformity  with  a  preconcerted  plan  : 
for  example,  the  rose  is  employed  to  express  the  idea  which 
would  otherwise  be  attached  to  the  amaranth  ;  the  carnation 
is  substituted  for  the  pomegranate-blossom,  and  so  on." 

The  Chinese  and  Persian  ladies  have  much  of  that  taste 
and  love  of  beauty  and  elegance  which  belong  especially  to 
Oriental  nations,  and  signify  their  love,  friendship,  anger,  dis- 
dain, and  other  feelings  by  various  blossoms  formed  into  bou- 
quets ;  and  to  them  the  flowers  convey  a  language  of  their 
own.  We  are  told  that  in  Persia,  for  instance,  the  tulip,  whose 
blossom  in  its  native  country  is  scarlet,  while  the  centre  of  its 
glowing  cup  is  black,  is  used  to  express  warm  affection,  and, 
when  sent  by  a  lover,  will  convey  to  the  object  of  his  attach- 
ment the  idea  that,  like  this  flower,  his  face  is  warm,  and  his 
heart  consumed  as  a  coal. 

The  gradual  progress  of  aflection  is  expressed  by  the  gift  of 
a  rose  in  its  various  developments,  from  the  small  rosebud  to 
the  fully  expanded  blossom ;  and  despair  is  signified  by  the 


CIU'IH   tl«B! 


/ 


Typical  Bouquets.  337 


nosegay  formed  of  myrtle  entwined  with  the  cypres.^  and 
poppy.  The  two  latter  symbols  would  find  a  ready  interpre- 
tation in  any  country;  but  to  us  the  gay  tulip  might  seem  ill 
adapted  to  convey  sentiment,  and  would  rather  remind  us  of 
that  display  which  courts  admiration.  The  bergamotte  and 
jasmine,  both  of  which  in  Eastern  countries  possess  the  most 
powerful  fragrance,  are  beautifully  emblematic  of  the  sweets  ot 
friendship. 

Reverting  next  to  India,  which,  as  a  florigraphical  authority 
states,  "  may  be  regarded  as  the  cradle  of  poetry,"  we  are  in- 
formed that  it  is  customary  there  to  express  by  the  combina- 
tion of  flowers  those  sentiments  of  the  heart  which  are  regarded 
as  too  refined  and  sacred  to  be  communicated  through  the 
common  medium  of  words.  The  young  females  of  Amboyna 
are  singularly  ingenious  in  the  art  of  conversing  in  the  language 
of  flowers  and  fruits.  Yet  this  language,  like  that  employed 
in  Turkey  and  in  other  parts  of  the  East,  bears  little  resem- 
blance to  that  with  Vv^hich  we  have  been  hitherto  acquainted  in 
Europe ;  although,  according  to  the  received  notion,  we  were 
indebted  for  our  first  knowledge  of  this  language  to  the  Cru- 
saders and  to  pilgrims  who  visited  the  Holy  Land. 

Lady  Montague  tells  us  that  in  Turkey  you  may,  through 
the  assistance  of  these  emblems,  either  quarrel,  reproach,  or 
send  letters  of  passion,  friendship,  or  civility,  or  even  news, 
without  ever  inking  your  fingers  ;  for  there  is  no  w^eed,  no  fruit, 
no  herb,  nor  flower,  that  has  not  a  verse  belonging  to  it.  So, 
too,  no  Turkish  lady  would  send  a  congratulatory  message,  or 
a  ceremonious  invitation,  without  sending  with  it  some  em- 
blematical flowers,  carefully  wrapped  in  an  embroidered  hand- 
kerchief, made  fragrant  by  the  odours  of  other  flowers,  which 
conveyed  also  an  emblematical  meaning.  But  these  are  merely 
fragments  of  the  customs  of  the  Eastern  nations,  where  all  was 
symbol,  emblem,  and  allegory,  and  where  imagination  usurped 
the  power  and  controlled  even  the  affairs  of  state. 

In  his  "Letters  on  Greece,"  Castellan  remarks  that,  when 
he  was  passing  through  a  valley  on  the  Bosphorus,  his  atten- 
tion was  engaged  by  an  incident  thoroughly  characteristic  of 
Oriental  life.  Beneath  the  grated  window  of  a  small  country 
villa  stood  a  young  Turk,  serenading  the  object  of  his  affection 
with  some  such  lay  as  this  : 

22 


338  Typical  Bouquets. 


**  The  nightingale  wanders  from  flower  to  flower. 
Seeking  the  rose,  his  heart's  only  prize; 
Thus  did  my  love  change  every  hour, 
Until  I  saw  thee,  light  of  my  eyes ! " 

On  the  conclusion  of  this  love  ditty,  the  lattice  of  the  win- 
dow was  opened,  and  a  small  white  hand  dropped  a  bouquet 
of  flowers,  which  was  picked  up  and  eagerly  scrutinized  by  the 
serenader.  Apparently  satisfied  by  the  message  thus  conveyed, 
he  fastened  it  to  his  turban,  signified  his  approval  to  the  con- 
cealed donor,  and  withdrew.  From  his  garb  he  appeared  no- 
thing more  than  a  poor  water-carrier ;  but,  says  the  Turkish 
proverb,  "  however  high  a  woman's  head  may  be,  her  feet  touch 
the  earth."  The  hidden  damsel  was,  it  appears,  actually  the 
daughter  of  a  wealthy  Jew. 

There  is  an  appropriate  passage  in  the  "  Bride  of  Abydos  '* 
relating  to  a  token-bouquet : 

**  She  saw  in  curious  order  set. 

The  fairest  flowers  of  Eastern  land  : 
He  loved  them  once — may  touch  them  yet, 

If  offered  by  Zuleika's  hand. 
The  childish  thought  was  hardly  breathed 
Before  the  rose  was  plucked  and  wreathed; 
The  next  fond  moment  saw  her  seat 
Her  fairy  form  at  Selim's  feet. 
*  This  rose,  to  calm  my  brother's  fears, 
A  message  from  the  bulbul*  bears  ; 
It  says,  to-night  he  will  prolong, 
For  Selim's  ear,  his  sweetest  song; 
And  though  his  note  is  somewhat  sad. 
He  '11  try,  for  once,  a  strain  more  glad, 
"With  some  faint  hope,  his  altered  lay 
May  sing  these  gloomy  thoughts  away.*" 

The  delicate  manner  in  which  the  French  make  use  of  this 
sweet  mode  of  floral  correspondence  may  be  gathered  from 
this  "  Dialogue  "  of  Christine  Fire  : 

THE   LOVER.  THE   LADY. 

*'I  give  to  thee  the  Autumn  rose,  **I  give  to  thee  the  aspen-leaf — 
Let  it  say  how  dear  thou  art ;  'T  is  to  show  I  tremble  still 

All  my  lips  dare  not  disclose,  When  I  muse  on  all  the  grief 

Let  it  whisper  to  thy  heart ;  Love  can  cause,  if  false  or  ill ; 

How  love  draws  my  soul  to  thee,  How,  too,  many  have  believed, 

Without  language  thou  may'st  see.  Trusted  long,  and  been  deceived. 


Nightingale, 


Typical  Bouquets.  339 


LOVER.  LADY. 

**I  give  to  thee  a  faded  wreath,  **I  give  to  thee  the  honey-flower, 

Teaching  thee,  alas !  too  well,  Courteous,  best,  and  bravest  knight ; 

How  I  spent  my  latest  breath,  Fragrant  in  the  Summer  shower. 

Seeking  all  my  truth  to  tell ;  Shrinking  from  the  sunny  light : 

But  thy  coldness  made  me  die  May  it  not  an  emblem  prove 

Victim  of  thy  cruelty.  Of  untold,  but  tender  love?" 

Many  of  the  Scotch  poets  have  availed  themselves  of  the 
charming  fancies  of  floralic  emblems  with  which  to  paint  the 
emotions  of  loving,  and  portray  the  beauties  of  their  beloved. 
None  of  them  have  made  more  successful  incursions  into  these 
tempting  blossomy  realms  of  floral  romance  than  has  Burns, 
as  for  instance,  in  his  pretty  "  Posie/'  of  which  lyric,  Professor 
Wilson  remarked,  that  similar  sentiments  inspired  Meleager, 
in  the  composition  of  his  symbolic  "  Garland  of  Heliodora : " 

**  O  luve  will  venture  in  where  it  dauma  weel  be  seen ; 
O  luve  will  venture  in  where  wisdom  aince  has  been ; 
But  I  will  down  yon  river  rove,  amang  the  wood  sae  green — 
And  a'  to  pu'  a  posie  to  my  ain  dear  May. 

**  The  primrose  I  will  pu',  the  firstling  of  the  year, 
And  I  will  pu'  the  pink,  the  emblem  o'  my  dear. 
For  she 's  the  pink  o'  womankind,  and  blooms  without  a  peer — 
And  a'  to  be  a  posie  to  my  ain  dear  May. 

**  I  '11  pu'  the  budding  rose  when  Phoebus  peeps  in  view, 
For  it 's  like  a  bonnie  kiss  o'  her  sweet  bonnie  mou' ; 
The  hyacinth  for  constancy,  wi'  its  unchanging  blue — 
And  a'  to  be  a  posie  to  my  ain  dear  May. 

*'  The  lily  it  is  pure,  and  the  lily  it  is  fair, 
And  in  her  lovely  bosom  I  '11  place  the  lily  there ; 
The  daisy 's  for  simplicity  and  unaffected  air — 
"""Aiid  a'  to  be  a  posie  to  my  ain  dear  May. 

"  The  hawthorn  I  will  pu',  with  its  locks  o'  siller  gray. 
Where,  like  an  aged  man,  it  stands  at  break  of  day. 
But  the  songster's  nest  within  the  bush  I  winna'  tak'  away — 
And  a'  to  be  a  posie  to  my  ain  dear  May. 

**  The  woodbine  I  will  pu'  when  the  e'ening  star  is  near, 
And  the  diamond-drops  of  dew  shall  be  her  een  sae  clear ; 
The  violet 's  for  modesty  which  weel  she  fa 's  to  wear — 
And  a'  to  be  a  posie  to  my  ain  dear  May. 

"  I  '11  tie  the  posie  round  wi'  the  silken  band  o'  luve. 
And  I  '11  place  it  in  her  breast,  and  I  '11  swear  by  a'  above, 
That  to  my  latest  draught  of  life  the  band  shall  ne'er  remove — 
And  this  will  be  a  posie  to  my  ain  dear  May." 

How,  had  he  read  this  heartfelt "  simple  lay,"  could  Holmes 
have  sung :  ^ 

22 — 2 


340  Typical  Bouquets. 


"  Can  a  simple  lay, 
Flung  on  thy  bosom  like  a  girl's  bouquet ^ 
Do  more  than  deck  thee  for  an  idle  hour, 
Then  fall  unheeded,  fading  like  the  flower?** 

How,  indeed,  could  he  have  rhymed — he  who  tells  us  "with- 
ered flowers  recall  forgotten  love  " — had  he  even  had  such  a 
gossip  with  a  bouquet  as  did  Mrs.  Sigourney,  wherein  she  did 
conjure  the  fair  typical  creatures  to 

*'  Speak,  speak,  sweet  guests ! 

Yes,  ope  your  lips  in  words, 
"T  is  my  delight  to  talk  with  you,  and  fain 
I  '11  have  an  answer.     I  've  been  long  convinced 
You  understand  me ; " 

for,  as  this  same  sweet  poetess  says,  though  their 

**  Language  is  slow. 
Yet  theirs  is  a  love 

Simple  and  sure,  that  asks  no  discipline 
Of  weary  years, — the  language  of  the  soul 
Told  through  the  eye" 

by  means  of  emblematic  flowers. 

What  a  boon  to  lovers  this  fragrant  language  must  be ! 
Well  might  Leigh  Hunt  exclaim,  "  in  words  that  breathe  "  as 
sweetly  as  the  subject  of  his  verse : 

"  An  exquisite  invention  this,  Taking  due  care  one's  flowers  of  speech 

Worthy  of  love's  most  honied  kiss,  To  guard  from  blight  as  well  as  bathos, 

This  art  of  writing  billet  doux  And  watering,  every  day,  one's  pathos. 
In  buds  and  odours,  and  bright  hues;  ..  .  ^    ,  .     .        ,        , 

In  saymg  all  one  feels  and  thinks  ^  l^^ter  comes  just  gathered :  we 

In  clever  daffodils  and  pinks,  P?.te  on  its  tender  brilliancy; 

Uttering  (as  well  as  silence  may)  J^^j^f  ^f  ^^s  delicate  expression         _ 

The  sweetest  words  the  sweetest  way :  ?/  balm_  and  pea ;  and  its  confession, 

How  fit,  too,  for  the  lady's  bosom,  ^/^^^  ^^^^h  as  sweet  a  maiden  blush 

The  place  where  dillel  doux  repose  'em.  ^^  ever  morn  bedew  d  m  bush ;  _ 

^  ^  And  then,  when  we- have  kissed  its  wit, 

"  How  charming  in  some  rural  spot,  And  heart,  in  water  putting  it, 

Combining  love  vnth  garden  plot.  To  keep  its  remarks  fresh,  go  round 

At  once  to  cultivate  one's  flowers,  Our  little  eloquent  plot  of  ground, 

And  one's  epistolary  powers,  And  with  delighted  hands  compose 

Growing  one's  own  choice  words  and  Our  answer,  all  of  lily  and  rose, 

fancies  Of  tuberose  and  of  violet. 

In  orange-tubs  and  beds  of  pansies ;  And  little  darling  Onignonette)^ 

One's  sighs  and  passionate  declarations  And  gratitude  and  polyanthus. 

In  odorous  rhet'ric  of  carnations ;  And  flowers  that  say,  '  Felt  never  man 
Seeing  how  far  one's  stocks  will  reach;        thus !'" 

Although,  in  these  typical  bouquets,  much  must  depend  on 


Typical  Bouquets. 


341 


the  character  of  the  messages  intended  to  be  conveyed ;  upon 
the  variety  of  the  flowers  obtainable  ;  and  upon  the  ingenuity 
of  the  sender — the  following  few  simple  examples  of  floral 
epistles  may  not  prove  unacceptable : 


Example  Bouquets. 


I. — May  Maternal  Love  protect  your  Youth  in  Innocence  and  Joy. 

Emblems  required: 


Moss        .        .        .        Maternal  love. 
Bearded  Crepis,  or 
Juniper         .         .        Protection. 


Primroses 
Daisy 
V/ood  Sorrel 


Youth.  I 

InnoceiUf.     v 

Joy. 


II. — Your  Friendliness  bids  me  hope  to  obtain  your  Love. 

Emblems  required: 
Ivy  or  Acacia,  Friendship.     Snowdrop  or  Hawthorn,  Hope.     Myrtle  or  Rose,  Lovi. 

III. — Let  the  Bonds  of  Marriage  unite  us. 

E'/nblems  required: 
Blue  Convolvulus,  Bonds.     Linden-leaf  or  Yellow  Ivy,  Matrimony.    A  few  Straws,  Union. 

IV. — Keep  your  Promise  to  meet  me  to-night.    Do  not  Forget. 

Emblems  required: 
Plum-blossom  .        .        Keep  your  promise.    \    Convolvulus      ,        .        .        Night. 


Sweet  Pea 


A  7neetiti,g. 


Forget-me-not 


Do  not  forget. 


A  Red  Rose,  /  love  you. 
VL — By  Foresight  you  vi^ill  surmount  your  'Difficulties. 

Emblems  required: 
HoWy,  Foresight.     Mistletoe,  Youwi II  surmount  your  difficulties. 

VII. — To  Love  is  a  Pleasure,  a  Happiness,  which  intoxicates;  to  cease  to  Love  is 

ceasing  to  exist;   it  is  to  have  bought  this  sad  Truth:  that  Innocence 

is  Falsehood,  Love  an  Art,  and  Happiness  a  Dream. 


Emblems 

required  : 

Pink        . 

Pure  love. 

Nightshade 

Truth. 

Wood  Sorrel  or  Ivy 

Joy. 

Daisy        .         .         , 

Innocence. 

Sweet  Sultan . 

HapptJtess. 

Bugloss     .         .        , 

Falsehood 

Vine-leaf 

Ifitoxication. 

Myrtle      . 

Love. 

Pink,  reversed 

Cessation  of  love. 

Acanthus . 

An  art. 

Lucern,  reversed    . 

Cessation  of  life. 

Sweet  Sultan   . 

Hap  pine  SI 

Wheat-ear 

A  purcJiase. 

Poppy 

Sleep. 

A  dead  leaf    .        » 

Sadness. 

W^^ 


Emblematic    Garlands. 

**They  tell  in  a  garland  their  loves  and  cares." 


EMBLEMATIC  GARLANDS  hold  such  an  important 
position  in  floral  symbolism  that,  despite  the  many- 
allusions  to  them  in  various  portions  of  this  work,  it  was 
deemed  undesirable  to  leave  them  without  the  honour  of  a 
distinct  chapter. 

What  a  prominent  part  wreaths  and  garlands  played  in  the 
social  histories  of  Greece,  Rome,  and  the  middle  ages  of 
Europe  has  already  been  depicted  in  former  pages ;  it  there- 
fore only  remains  to  turn  to  our  poets,  and  hear  what  sweet 
things  they  have  to  say  upon  the  subject.  Our  older  bards 
were  frequently  accustomed  to  make  their  heroes 

**  Gather  a  wreath  from  the  garden  bowers, 
And  tell  the  wish  of  their  hearts  in  flowers ;  '* 

and  none  have  left  more  noteworthy  examples  than  William 
Browne  and  Michael  Drayton,  the  latter  of  whom,  in  his 
"  Muses'  Elysium,"  thus  heralds  the  way : 


The  garland  long  ago  was  worn 
As  Time  pleased  to  bestow  it : 

The  laurel  only  to  adorn 
The  conqueror  and  \h&  poet. 

The  palm  his  due  who,  uncontroU'd, 
On  danger  looking  gravely, 

When  Fate  had  done  the  worst  it  could, 
Who  bore  his  fortune  bravely. 

Most  worthy  of  the  oaken  wreath 
The  ancients  him  esteemed 

Who  in  a  battle  had  from  death 
Some  man  of  worth  redeemed, 

A  wreath  of  vervain  heralds  wear, 
Among  our  garlands  named, 


Being  sent  the  dreadful  news  to  bear, 
Offensive  war  proclaim'd. 

"  The  sign  oi peace  who  first  displays 
The  olive  wreath  possesses ; 
The  lover  with  the  myrtle  sprays 
Adorns  his  crisped  tresses. 

"  In  love,  the  ^zA  forsaken  wight, 
The  willow  garland  weareth ; 
The  funeral  wight,  befitting  night, 
The  baleful  cypress  beareth. 

**  To  Pan  we  dedicate  the  pine, 

Whose  slips  the  shepherd  graceth ; 
Again,  the  ivy  and  the  vine 

On  the  swoU'n  Bacchus  placeth,*' 


Emblem  A  tic    Garlands. 


343 


Amongst  modern  garlanders,  Eliza  Cook,  in  her  poem  of 
"  The  Wreaths,"  has  entered  fully  into  the  spirit  of  these 
typical  coronals,  but  as  the  poem  will  be  met  with  in  another 
section  of  this  book,  we  will  pass  on  to  these  lines,  from  the 
**  Oriental  Love-letter"  of  Mrs.  Pickersgill: 


**  Within  the  harem's  still  retreat, 
Sitara,  at  that  lovely  hour 
Of  eve,  had  sought  her  lonely  seat. 
And  on  embroidered  couches  laid, 
Reclin'd  the  pensive  Moslem  maid. 
In    vain    the    beauteous    vv^oodbine's 

wound, 
Like  Love's  light  bonds,  the  casement 

round, 
"Wafting  their  tribute  of  perfume, 
And  laughing  in  their  roseate  bloom ; 
For  all  neglected  lay  her  lute 
Whose  every  moving  strain  was  mute ; 
No  longer  was  her  buoyant  song 
Borne  by  the  southern  breeze  along, 
Nor  flowers,   nor  lute,   nor   sparkling 

stream, 
Could  woo  her  from  Love's  witching 

dream. 
Though  close  within  the  harem  bower 
They  deem'd  her  safe  from  Love's  fond 

power. 
Yet  in  what  deep  sequester'd  cell 
Will  not  the  winged  urchin  dwell? 
For  e'en  within  a  flow'ry  wreath 
Young  Love  his  first  fond  vows  may 

breathe. 
And  bright  emblem  flowers  declare 
Joy — Absence —  Thraldom —  Hope — 

Despair  ! 

**  Perchance  amid  those  flowers  he  dwells, 
Nestling  beneath  the  myrtle-bells 


And  on  its  fragrance  wafts  a  sigh 
While  sunned  beneath  her  radiant  eye. 
And  e'en  those  buds  of  crimson  hue 
Breathe  vows  of  love,  both  pure  and 

true. 
While  the  bright  golden  flow'ret  bears 
His  ever-changing  hopes  and  fears ; 
And  Beauty's  type,  the  joyous  rose, 

Unfolds  the  soft  and  flattering  tale. 
That  her  young  cheek  with  lustre  glows. 

Which  makes  his  vaunted  bloom  seem 
pale. 
Then  may  not  her  young  bosom  well 
Receive  the  vows  those  emblems  tell ; 
And  her  dark  downcast  eye  reveal 
Thoughts  which  her  tongue  might  else 

conceal? 
And  why,  then,  from  the  garland's  pride 
Does  she  those  simple  flowers  divide. 
And  place  them  pensively  apart, 
As  if  some  chord  within  her  heart 
Vibrated?    Know,  amidst  their  bloom 

Those  purple  buds  of  absence  breathe. 
Which  well  might  shed  a  passing  gloom 

O'er  her  fair  brow  —  did    not   the 
wreath 
Of  fairy  Hope  from   Spring's   bright 

flowers 
Shine  in  those  tufts  of  snowy  flowers. 
Which,  joined  with  Memory's  solace,  still 
Shield's  Love's  young  buds  from  Win- 
ter's chill." 


Pringle,  one  of  old  Scotia's  peasant  bards,  has  also  arranged 
these  "  interpreters  of  love  "  in  a  representative  wreath  : 


**  I  sought  the  garden's  ^2c^  parterre. 
To  cull  a  wreath  for  Mary's  hair. 
And  thought  I  surely  here  might  find 
Some  emblem  of  her  lovely  mind. 
Where  taste  displays  the  varied  bloom 
Of  Flora's  beauteous  drawing-room. 
And  first  of  peerless  form  and  hue. 
The  stately  lily  caught  my  view. 
Fair  bending  from  her  graceful  stem 


Like  queen  with  regal  diadem  ; 

But  though  I  viewed  her  with  delight. 

She  seem'd  too  much  to  woo  the  sight — 

A  fashionable  belle — to  shine 

In   some   more    courtly   wreath   than 


mme 


I  turned,  and  saw  a  tempting  row 
Of  flaunting  tulips,  full  in  blow ; 
But  left  them  with  their  gaudy  dyes 


344  Emblematic   Garlands. 

To  Nature's  beaux — the  butterflies.  Of  friends  that  change  as  fortunes  shift ! 

Bewildered  'mid  a  thousand  hues,  Tired  of  the  search,  I  bent  my  way 

Still  harder  grew  the  task  to  choose :  Where  Teviot's  haunted  waters  stray ; 

Here,  delicate  carnations  bent  And  from  the  wild  flowers  of  the  grove 

Their  heads  in  lovely  languishment — -  I  framed  a  garland  for  my  love : 

Much  as  a  pensive  Miss  expresses.  The  slender  circlet  first  to  twine 

With  neck  declined,  her  soft  distresses !  I  plucked  the  rambling  eglantine. 

There,  gay  jonquils  in  foppish  pride  That  decked  the  cliffs  in  clusters  free, 

Stood  by  the  painted  lily's  side,  As  sportive  and  as  sweet  as  she : 

And  hollyhocks  superbly  tall  I  stole  the  violet  from  the  brook, 

Beside  the  crown  imperial ;  Though  hid  like  her  in  shady  nook, 

But  still,  'midst  all  this  gorgeous  glov7,  And  wove  it  with  the  mountain  thyme — 

Seemed  less  of  sweetness  than  of  show.  The  myrtle  of  our  stormy  clime  : 

While  close  beside  in  warning  grew  The  harebell  looked  like  Mary's  eye. 

The  allegoric  thyme  and  rue.  The  blush-rose  breathed  her  tender  sigli, 

There,    too,    stood    that    fair-weather  And  daisies,  bathed  in  dew,  exprest 

flower.  Her  innocent  and  gentle  breast. 

Which,  faithful  still  in  sunshine  hour.  And  now,  my  Mary's  brow  to  braid. 

With  fervent  adoration  turns  This  chaplet  in  her  bower  is  laid, 

Its  breast  where  golden  Phoebus  burns —  A  fragrant  emblem,  fresh  and  wild, 

Base  symbol  (which  I  scorned  to  lift)  Of  simple  Nature's  sweetest  child." 

Percival,  one  of  the  countless  multitudes  of  new  and  true 
minstrels  who  have  sprung  up  during  the  last  half-century  in 
**the  land  of  the  free,"  has  in  the  annexed  emblematic  wreath 
expressed  the  American  fondness  for  that  Ori(;ntal  fancy — the 
language  of  flowers : 

*'  In  Eastern  lands  they  talk  in  flowers. 

And  they  tell  in  a  garland  their  loves  and  cares : 
Each  blossom  that  blooms  in  their  garden  bowers, 
On  its  leaves  a  mystic  language  bears. 

"  The  rose  is  a  sign  of  joy  and  love, 

Young  blushing  love  in  its  earliest  dawn; 

And  the  mildness  that  suits  the  gentle  dove, 

From  the  myrtle's  snowy  flower  is  drawn. 

**  Innocence  shines  in  the  lily's  bell. 

Pure  as  the  heart  in  its  native  heaven ; 
Fame's  bright  star  and  glory's  swell, 
In  the  glossy  leaf  of  the  bay  are  given. 

"  The  silent,  soft,  and  humble  heart, 

In  the  violet's  hidden  sweetness  breathes; 
And  the  tender  soul  that  cannot  part, 
A  twine  of  evergreen  fondly  wreathes. 

**  The  cypress  that  daily  shades  the  grave. 
Is  sorrow  that  mourns  her  bitter  lot ; 
And  faith,  that  a  thousand  ills  can  brave, 
Speaks  in  thy  blue  leaves,  forget-me-not. 

'*  Then  gather  a  wreath  from  the  garden  bowers, 
And  tell  the  wish  of  thy  heart  in  flowers. " 


_ft 


The  Vocabulary. 


The  Vocabulary. 

^art  tfje   JFirst. 


ABECEDARY 
Abatina 
Acacia  .... 
Acacia,  Rose  or  White. 
Acacia,  Yellow 
Acanthus 

Acaha  .... 
Achillea  Millefolia 
Achimenes  Cupreata    . 
Aconite  (Wolfsbane)     . 
Aconite,  Crowfoot 
Adonis,  Flos 
African  Marigold 
AgiiUS  Castus 
Agrimony 

Almond,  Common 

Almond,  Flowering 

Almond,  Laurel    . 

Allspice 

Aloe      .        .        .        . 

Althsea  Frutex  Syrian) 

Mallow)     . 
Alyssum,  Sweet    . 
Amaranth,  Globe 

Amaranth  (Cockscomb) 
Amaryllis 

Ambrosia 
American  Cowslip 
American  Elm 
American  Linden 
American  Starwort 

Amethyst 
Andromeda  . 
Anemone  (Zephyr  Fir.) 
Anemone,  Garden 
Angelica 

Angrec .         .         •        . 
Apricot  Blossom  . 
Apple    .         .         .         . 
Apple  Blossom 


Apple,  Thorn        . 
Apocynum  (Dogsbane) 
Arbor  Vitae   . 


Volubility. 

Fickleness. 

Friendship. 

Elegance. 

Secret  love. 

The  fine  arts.  Artifice. 

Temperance. 

War. 

Such  worth  is  rare. 

Misanthropy. 

Lustre. 

Sad  memories. 

Vtdgar  minds. 

Coldness.   Indifi'erence. 

Thankftilness.  Grati- 
tude. 

Stupidity.  Indiscretion 

Hope. 

Perfidy. 

Cojnpassion. 

Grief.  Religious  super- 
stition.   Bitterness. 

Persuasion. 

Worth  beyond  heauty. 

Immortality  Unfad- 
ing love. 

Foppery.     Affectation. 

Pride.  Tiinidity. 

Splendid  beauty. 

Love  returned. 

Divine  beauty. 

Patriotism.. 

Matri^nony. 

Welcome  to  a  stranger. 
Cheerfulness  in  old  age. 

Aduiiratiott. 

Self-sacrifice. 

Sickness.  Expectation. 

Forsaken. 

Inspiration,  or  Magic. 

Royalty. 

Doiibt. 

Temptation. 

Prefere7ice.  Fam^e 

speaks  hiin  great  and 
good. 

Deceitful  charms. 

Deceit. 

Unchanging  friend- 
ship.   Live  for  tne. 


Arbutus        «        , 
Arum  (Wake  Robin)    . 
Ash  -  leaved      Trumpet 

Flower 
Ash,  Mountain 

Ash  Tree 
Aspen  Tree  . 
Aster  (China) 
Asphodel 

Auricula 
Auricula,  Scarlet 
Austurtium   . 
Autumnal  Leaves 
Azalea  . 


BACHELOR'S 
Button 
Balm     .        .         .        . 
Balm,  Gentle 
Balm  of  Gilead     . 
Balsam,  Red 

Balsam,  Yellow    . 
Barberry 

Basil      .         .         .         . 
Bay  Leaf 

Bay  (Rose)  Rhododen- 
dron .        .        .         . 
Bay  Tree 
Bay  Wreath . 
Bearded  Crepis     . 
Beech  Tree  . 
Bee  Orchis    . 
Bee  Ophrys  . 
Begonia 
Belladonna   . 
Bell  Flower,  Pyramidal. 
Bell  Flower  (sm.  white) 
Belvedere 
Betony. 
Bilberry 
Bindweed,  Great . 

Bindweed,  Small  . 
Birch     .         .         .         . 
Birdsfoot  (Trefoil) 
Bittersweet ;        Night- 
shade 


Thee  only  do  I  love. 
A  rdojir.     Zeal. 

Separation. 
Prudetice,  or  With  me 

you  are  safe. 
Grandetir. 

Lamentation,  or  Fear. 
Variety.  After-thought. 
My  regrets  follow  you 

to  the  grave. 
Painting. 
Avarice. 
Splendour. 
Melancholy. 
Tetnperance. 


Celibacy. 

Sympathy. 

Pleasantry. 

Ctire.     Relief. 

Touch  me  not.     Impa^ 

tient  resolves. 
Impatiettce. 
Sharpness  of  temper. 
Hatred. 
I  cJiajige  but  itt  death. 

Danger.     Beware. 
Glory. 

Reward  ofm,erit. 
Protection. 
Prosperity. 
Industry. 
Error. 
Deformity. 
Silence.     Hush ! 
Constancy. 
Gratitude. 

I  declare  against  you. 
Surprise. 
Treachery . 

Insinuation.  Importu- 
nity. 
Humility. 
Meekness. 
.Revenge. 

Truth. 


356 


The   Vocabular y. 


Black  Poplar 
Blackthorn    . 
Bladder  Nut  Tree 
Bluebottle  (Centaury)  . 
Bluebell 


Blue-flowered       Greek 

Valerian     . 
Bonus  Henricus 
Borage . 
Box  Tree 
Bramble 

Branch  of  Currants 

Branch  of  Thorns 

Bridal  Rose  . 

Broom  .... 

Browallia  Jamisonii 

Buckbean 

Bud  of  White  Rose      . 

Buglos  .... 
Bulrush  .  ... 
Bundle  of  Reeds,  with 

their  Panicles    . 
Burdock 


Courage.     Affliction. 
Diffictdty. 

Frivolity.  Amusement. 
Delicacy. 

Constancy.    Sorro%vful 
regret. 

Rupttire. 

Goodness. 

Bhintness. 

Stoicism. 

Lowliness.  Envy.   Re- 


Cereus,  Creeping. 
Centaury 
Champignon 
Chequered  Fritillary 
Cherry  Tree,  White 
Cherry  Blossom   . 
Chestnut  Tree 
Chinese  Primrose 
Chickvveed    . 
Chicory 
China  Aster  . 
China  Aster,  Double 


Bur       .        .        . 

Buttercup  (Kingcup) 

Buttercups   . 
Butterfly  Orchis   . 
Butterfly  Weed    . 


CABBAGE 
Cacalia 
Cactus  . 
Calla  ^thiopica 
Calceolaria   . 


Caly  can  thus . 
Camellia  Japonica,  Red 

Ditto,  White 

Camomile 

Campanula  Pyramida  . 
Camphire 
Canary  Grass 
Candytuft 
Canterbury  Bell 
Cape  Jasmine 
Cardamine    . 
Carnation,  Deep  Red 


Carnation,  Striped 
Carnation,  Yellow 
Cardinal  Flower 
Catchfly 
Catchfly,  Red 
Catchfly,  White 
Cattleya 
Cattleya,  Pineli 
Cedar    . 
Cedar  of  Lebanon 
Cedar  Leaf  . 
Celandine,  Lesser 


morse. 
You  please  all. 
Severity.     Rigour. 
Happy  love. 
H7iinility.     Neatness. 
Couldyoii  bear  poverty  ? 
Calm  repose. 
A    heart    ignorant    of 

love. 
Falsehood. 
Indiscretion.    Docility. 

Music. 

.  Importunity.  Touch 
■me  not. 

.  Rudetiess.  You  weary 
me. 

.  Ingratitude.  Childish- 
ness. 

.  Riches. 

.  Gaiety. 

.  Let  me  go. 


Profit. 

Adulation. 

IVarmth. 

Magftijicent  beauty. 

I  offer  you  pecuniary 
assistance,  or  I  offer 
you  my  fortutie. 

Betievoletice. 

Uiipretending  excel- 
lence. 

Perfected  loveliness. 

Energy  z'w  adversity. 

Aspiring. 

Fragrance. 

Persevera  nee. 

hidiffercjice. 

A  cknowledgtnent. 

I  atJt  too  Jiappy. 

Paternal  error. 

Alas!  for  m.y  poor 
heart. 

Refisal. 

Disdain. 

Distinction. 

Snare. 

Yoicthful  love. 

Bitrayed. 

Mature  charms. 

Matro7ily  grace. 

Strength. 

Incorruptible. 

I  live  for  tJiee. 

Joys  to  come. 


China  Aster,  Single 
China  or  Indian  Pink 
China  Rose  . 
Chinese 


Modest  genitts. 

Delicacy. 

Suspicion. 

Persecution. 

Good  education. 

Insincerity. 

Do  me  justice. 

Lasting  love. 

Rendezvous.     . 

Frugality. 

Variety. 

I  partake  your  senti- 
tne7its. 
.  I  will  thittk  of  it. 
.  Aversion. 


Beauty  always  new. 
Chrysanthe-  CJieerfulness  under  ad' 
mum ....      versity. 
Chorozema  Varium       .  You  have  many  lovers. 
Christmas  Rose    .         .  Relieve  my  anxiety. 
Chrysanthemum,  Red  .  /  love. 
Chrysanthemum,  White  Truth. 
Chrysanthemum,  Yell.    Slighted  love. 

.  A  Iways  delightful. 
Maternal  affection. 


Cineraria 

Cinquefoil 

Circaea  . 

Cistus,  or  Rock  Rose 

Cistus,  Gum  . 

Citron    . 

Clarkia  . 

Clematis 

Clematis,  Evergreen 

Cliantlius 


Saffron 
Coltsfoot 
■'  Columbine 
Columbine,  Purple 
Columbine,  Red    . 

Convolvulus 


Ciotbur . 

Cloves   . 

Clover,  Four-leaved 

Clover,  Red  . 

Clover,  White 

Cobsea   . 

Cockscomb  Amaranth 


spell. 
Popular  favour. 
I  shall  die  to-morrow. 
Ill-7iat7ired  beauty. 
The  variety  of  yo7ir  con- 
versation delights  m.e. 
Me7ital  beauty.  Artifice 
Poverty. 

Worldliness.  Self-seek- 
ing. 

Pertittacity. 


.  R7ide7iess. 
.  Dig7tity. 
.  Be  mi7te. 
.  Didustry. 

.  Thi7ik  ofm.e.  Promise. 
.  Gossip. 

.  Foppery.     Affectation. 
Si7tg7{larity. 
Colchicum,  or  Meadow 


,  My  best  days  are  past. 

Justice  shall  be  done. 

Folly. 

Resolved  to  win. 
.  A7txious    and    tretnb' 
li7ig. 

Bo7ids. 


Convolvulus,  Bl.  (Min.)  Repose.     Night. 
Convolvulus,  Major      .  Exti7iguished  hopes. 


Convolvulus,  Pink 


Corchorus 
Coreopsis 
Coreopsis  Arkansa 
Coriander 
Com 

Corn,  Broken 
Corn  Straw  . 
Corn  Bottle  . 
Corn  Cockle  . 
Cornflower  . 
Cornel  Tree  . 
Coronella 


Worth  S7istai7ted  byj'u- 
dicio7is  and  tender 
affect  io7i. 

.  I77ipatie7it  of  absence. 

.  A  livays  cheerful. 

.  Love  at  first  sight. 

.  Hidde7i  worth. 

•  Riches. 

.  Qiiarrel. 

.  Agree77tent. 

.  Delicacy. 

.  Gentility. 

.  Delicacy. 

.  Dtiration. 

.  Success  crown  your 
wishes. 


l^HE   Vocabulary. 


357 


Cosmelia  Subra     . 

.  The  charm  of  a  blush. 

Endive  , 

.  Frugality. 

Cowslip . 

.  Pensiveness.     Wi7ini7ig 

Escholzia       .        , 

.  Do  not  refuse  me. 

grace.            Youthful 

Eupatorium  . 

.  Delay. 

beauty. 

Evening  Primrose 

.  Silent  Love. 

Cowslip,  Americai] 

I        .  Divine  beauty. 

Ever-flowing  Candytuft  Indiffere7ice. 

Crab  (Blossom)     . 

.  Ill  nature. 

Evergreen  Clematis 

.  Poverty. 

Cranberry 

.  Cure  for  heartache. 

Evergreen  Thorn . 

.  Solace  in  adversity. 

Creeping  Cereus   . 

.  Horror. 

Everlasting   . 

.  Never-ceasing  reme^n- 

Cress 

.  Stability.     Power. 

braftce. 

Crocus   . 

.  Abuse  not.  hnpatience. 

Everlasting  Pea    , 

f  Lasting  pleasure. 

Crocus,  Spring 

.  Youthjul  glathiess. 

Crocus,  Saffron 

.  Mirth.     Cheerfulness. 

Crown,  Imperial   . 

.  Majesty.     Power. 

L^ENNEL 

.  Worthy     all     praise. 

Crowsbill 

.  Envy. 

Strength. 

Crowfoot 

.  Ingratitude. 

.Fern       . 

.  Fascination.       Magic. 

Crowfoot  (Aconite 

-Ivd.)  Ltcstre. 

Sincerity. 

Cuckoo  Plant 

.  Ardour. 

Ficoides,  Ice  Plant 

.  Your  looks  freeze  me. 

Cudweed,  Americ 

an     .  Unceasing         remejn- 

Fig        .        .        . 

.  A  rgumettt. 

brajice. 

Fig  Marygold 

.  Idlejiess. 

Currant . 

.  Thy  frown  will  kill  me. 

Fig  Tree 

.  Prolific.  _ 

Cuscuta 

.  Meanness. 

Filbert  . 

.  Reconciliation. 

Cyclamen 

.  Diffidence. 

Fir          ... 

.  Time. 

Cypress 

.  Death.     Mourning. 

Fir  Tree 

.  Elevation. 

Flax       . 

.  Domestic         industry. 
Fate.       I  feel  your 

T^AFFODIL 

.  Regard.       Unrequited 

kindness. 

love. 

Flax-lvd.  Golden-locks    Tardijiess. 

Dahlia  . 

.        .  Instability.     Pomp. 

Fleur-de-Lys 

.  Flame.     I  bum. 

Daisy     . 

.  Innocence. 

Fleur-de-Luce 

.  F'ire. 

Daisy,  Garden 

.  I  share  your  sentimejits. 

Flowering  Fern    . 

.  Reverie. 

Daisy,  Michaelma 

s       .  Farewell,     or     After- 

Flowering Reed    . 

.  Confidence  in  Heaven. 

thought. 

Flower-of-an-Hour 

.  Delicate  beauty. 

Daisy,  Parti-colou 

red  .  Beatity. 

Fly  Orchis     . 

.  Error. 

Daisy,  Wild  . 

,  I  will  think  of  it. 

Flytrap  . 

.  Deceit. 

Damask  Rose 

.  Brilliant  complexion. 

Fool's  Parsley 

.  Silliness. 

Dandelion     . 

.  Rustic  oracle. 

Forget-me-not 

.  Forget-me-not. 

Dandelion,  or  Thistle- 

Foxglove 

.  Insincerity.  ■                 ^ 

seed-head  .' 

.  Depart. 

Foxtail  Grass 

.  Sporting. 

Daphne 

.  Glory.     Immortality. 

Franciscea  Latifolia 

.  Beware  of  false  friends. 

Daphne  Odora 

.  Painti-ag  the  lily. 

French  Honeysuckle 

.  Rustic  beatity. 

Darnel  . 

.  Vice. 

French  Marygold . 

.  Jealousy. 

Dead  Leaves 

.  Sadness. 

French  Willow 

.  Bravery  and  humanity 

Deadly  Nightshac 

e      .  Falsehood. 

Frog  Ophrys 

.  Disg7(st. 

Dew  Plant    . 

.  A  serenade. 

Fuller's  Teasel 

.  Misanthropy. 

Dianthus 

.  Make  haste. 

Fumitory 

.  Spleeit. 

Diosma . 

.  Your   simple   elegance 

Fuchsia,  Scarlet   . 

.  Taste. 

charms  me. 

Furze,  or  Gorse     . 

.  Love  for  all  seasons. 

Dipteracanthus  Sj 

jecta- 

Anger. 

bills    .  _     . 

.  Fortitude. 

Diplademia  Crassinoda  You  are  too  bold. 

Dittany  of  Crete 

.     _   .Birth. 

-  /"*  ARDEN  Anemone  Forsaken. 

Dittany  of  Crete,  A 

(Vhite  Passion. 

VJT    Garden  Chervil 

.  Sincerity. 

Dock     . 

.  Patience. 

Garden  Daisy 

.  I  pa7-take  your  senti- 

Dodder of  Thyme 

.  Baseness. 

ments. 

Dogsbane 

.  Deceit.     Falsehood. 

Garden  Marygold 

.  Uneasiness. 

Dogwood 

.  Drirability. 

Garden  Ranunculus 

.  Yozi  are  rich  in  attrac- 

Dragon Plant 

.  Snare. 

tions   . 

Dragonwort  . 

.  Horror. 

Garden  Sage 

.  Esteem. 

Dried  Flax    . 

.  Utility. 

Garland  of  Roses . 

.  Reward  of  virtue. 

Gardenia 

.  Refinement. 

Germander  Speedwell 

.  P'acility. 

\7 1?0NY  TRE 
P/     Echites  Ati 

E      .  Blackness. 

Geranium 

.  Deceit. 

•opur- 

Geraniujn,  Dark  . 

.  Melancholy, 

purea 

.  Be  warned  in  time. 

Geranium,    Horseshoe- 

Eglantine  (Sweetbrlar)  Poetry.      I  wound  to , 

leaf    . 

.  Stupidity. 

heal. 

Geranium,  Ivy 

.  Bridal  favour. 

Elder     . 

.  Zealousness. 

Geranium,  Lemon 

.  Unexpected  meeting. 

Elm        . 

.  Dignity. 

Geranium,  Nutmeg 

.  Expected  meetins:. 

Enchanter'sNightshade  WitcJicraft.    Sorcery. 

Geranium,  Oak-leaved    True  friendship. 

;58 


The    Vocabulary. 


Geranium,  Pencilled     . 
Geranium,  Rose-scntd, 
Geranium,  Scarlet 
Geranium,  Silver-leavd. 
Geranium,  Wild    . 
Gillyflower    . 
Gladioli .         .        .        . 
Glory  Flower 
Goat's  Rue    . 
Golden  Rod  . 
Gooseberry    . 
Gourd    .        .        .         , 
Grammanthus    Chlora- 
flora    .         .         .        . 
Grape,  Wild  . 
Grass     .        .         .         . 
Guelder  Rose 


Ingenuity. 

Preference. 

Comforting. 

Recall. 

Steadfast  piety. 

Bo7tds  of  affection. 

Ready  arjned. 

Glorious  beauty. 

Reason. 

Precaution. 

Ajtticipation. 

Extoftt.     Bulk. 

Your    tetnper    is    too 

hasty. 
Charity. 

Submission.     Utility. 
Winter.     Age. 


HAND  Flower  Tree 
Harebell     . 
Hawkweed    .        . 
Hawthorn 

Hazel     .        .        .         . 
Heart's-ease,  or  Pansy 
Heath    .        .         .        . 
Helenium      .        , 
Heliotrope     .        . 

Hellebore 

Helmet  Flower(Monks- 

hood) 
Hemlock       .        . 
Hemp  .        .        .        . 
Henbane       .        . 
Hepatica       ,        . 
Hibiscus        .         . 
Holly    .         .         .         . 
Holly  Herb  . 
Hollyhock    . 
Honesty 
Honey  Flower 
Honeysuckle 

Honeysuckle,  Coral 
Honeysuckle,  French 
Hop      .        .        .        . 
Hornbeam    . 
Horse  Chestnut    . 
Hortensia 
Houseleek    .        . 

Houstonia     .         , 
Hoya    .         .         .         . 
Hoyabella     . 
Humble  Plant      , 
Hundred-leaved  Rose  . 
Hyacinth      .  *      . 
Hyacinth,  Purple 
Hyacinth,  White . 
Hydrangea  . 
Hyssop 


Warning. 

Submission.     Grief. 

Q  u  ick-sightedness. 

Hope. 

Reco7tciliation. 

Tho2ights. 

Solitude. 

Tears. 

Devotio7t  or,  I  turn  to 

tJtee. 
Scandal.     Calumny. 

Kn  igh  t-erra  7itry. 

You  will  be  7ny  death. 

Fate. 

Im.perfection. 

Confide7tce. 

Delicate  beauty. 

Foresight. 

E7icha7it77tent. 

A  7nbitio7i.     Fectmdity. 

Ho7iesty,    Fascination. 

Love  sweet  and  secret. 

Generous  a7id  devoted 
affection. 

The  colour  of  my  fate. 

Rustic  beauty. 

Hijustice. 

Orna77ient. 

Luxury. 

You  are  cold. 

Vivacity.  Domestic  in- 
dustry. 

Content. 

Sculpture. 

Content7nent. 

Despondency. 

Dig7iity  of  mind. 

Sport.     Gajne.     Play. 

Sorrowful. 

Unobtrusive  loveli7iess. 

A  boaster. 

Cleanliness. 


Indian  Cress 

Indian    Jasmine    (Ipo- 

moea) 
Indian  Pink  (Double)  . 
Indian  Plum 
Iris        .         .         .         . 
Iris,  German 
Ivy        .        .        .        . 

Ivy,  Sprig  of,  with  Ten- 
drils .        .        .        . 


JACOB'S  Ladder 
J     Japan  Rose   . 


Japanese  Lilies 
Jasmine 
Jasmine,  Cape 
Jasmine,  Carolina 
Jasmine,  Indian 
Jasmine,  Spanish 
Jasmine,  Yellow 
Jonquil 

Judas  Tree   . 
Julienne,  White 

Juniper 
Justicia 


Warlike  troihy. 

A  ttach77tent. 
Always  lovely. 
Privation. 
Message. 
Fla7ne. 

Friendship.     Fidelity. 
Marriage. 

Assiduous  to  please. 


TCELAND  Moss 
JL     Ice  Plant 
Imbricata 

Imperial  Montague 


.  Health. 

.  Your  looks  freeze  me. 

.  Upright7tess.         Senti- 

ments  of  honour. 
.  Power. 


KENNEDIA. 
Kingcups  . 

T   ABURNUM 

Lady's  Slipper 

Lagerstrsemia,  Indian 
Lantana 
Lapageria  Rosea , 

Larch    . 

Larkspur 

Larkspur,  Pink 

Larkspur,  Purple 

Laurel  . 

Laurel,     Common,     m 

flower 
Laurel,  Ground 
Laurel,  Mountain 
Laurel-leavd.  Magnolia 
Laurestina    . 
Lavender 
Leaves (dead) 
Lemon  . 

Lemon  Blossoms 
Leschenaultia      Splen- 

dens  . 
Lettuce 
Lichen  . 
Lilac,  Field  . 
Lilac,  Purple 
Lilac,  White 
Lily,  Day 
Lily,  Imperial 
Lily,  White  . 


.  Come  down. 

.  Beauty  is  your  only  at- 
tractio7i. 

.  You  ca7inot  deceive  me. 

.  A7niability. 

.  Tra7isport  of  joy. 

.  Separation. 

.  I  attach  vtyself  to  you. 

.  Se7tsuality. 

.  Grace  and  elegance. 

.  I  desire  a  retur7t  of  af- 
fection. 

.  Unbelief.     Betrayal. 

,  Despair  not;  God  is 
everywhere. 

.  Succour.     Protection. 

.  The  perfection  of  fe- 
made  loveliftess. 

.  Mental  beauty. 
.  Desire  of  riches. 


Forsaken.  Pensive 

beauty. 
CapT^cious  beauty.  Win 

i7ie  and  wear  me. 
Eloquence. 
Rigour. 
There  is  no  unalloyed 

good. 
Audacity.     Boldness.     , 
Lightness.    Levity. 
Fickleness. 
Haughtiness. 
Glory. 

Perfidy. 

Perseverance. 

A  77  tbition. 

Dig7iity. 

A  token. 

Distrust. 

Melancholy. 

Zest. 

Fidelity  in  love. 

You  are  cJtar77ting. 

Cold-heartedness. 

Dejection.     Solitude. 

Hu77tility. 

First  e77totions  of  love. 

Youthful  innocence. 

Coquetry. 

Majesty. 

Purity.     Sweetness. 


The    Vocabulary. 

359 

Lily,  Yellow 

.  Falsehood.     Gaiety. 

Moschatel     . 

,  Weakness. 

Lily  of  the  Valley 

.  Return    of   happitiess. 

Moss     . 

.  Maternal  love. 

Unconscious  sweetness. 

Mosses . 

Eniiui. 

Linden  or  Lime  Trees 

.  Conj'tigal  love. 

Mossy  Saxifrage  . 

Affection. 

Lint 

.  I  feel  my  obligations. 

'  Motherwort  . 

.  Concealed  love. 

Live  Oak 

.  Liberty. 

Mountain  Ash 

.  Prudence. 

Liverwort 

.  Cojtfidence. 

Mourning  Bride   . 

.  Unfortunate      attach- 

Liquorice,  Wild    . 

.  I  declare  against  you. 

■ment.  I  Jiave  lost  all. 

Lobelia 

.  Malevolence. 

Mouse-eared        Chick 

- 

Locust  Tree . 

.  Elegance. 

weed . 

.  Ingenuous  simplicity. 

Locust  Tree  (green) 

.  Affection    beyond    the 

Mouse-eared    Scorpion 

grave. 

Grass 

.  Forget-me-not. 

London  Pride 

.  Frivolity. 

Moving  Plant 

Agitation. 

Lote  Tree     . 

.  Concord. 

Mudwort 

.  Happiness.     Tranquil' 

Lotus    . 

.  Eloqtience. 

lity. 

Lotus  Flower 

.  Estranged  love. 

Mulberry  Tree,  Black 

.  I  shall  not  survive  you. 

Lotus  Leaf  . 

.  Recantation. 

Mulberry  Tree,  White 

Wisdoin. 

Love  in  a  Mist 

.  Perplexity. 

Mushroom    . 

.  Stispicion;  or,  I  can't 

Love  lies  Bleeding 

.  Hopeless,  not  heartless. 

entirely  trust  you. 

Lucern . 

.  Life. 

Musk  Plant  . 

.  Weakness. 

Lupin   . 

.  Voraciousness. 

■  Mustard  Seed 

.  Indifference. 

Myrobalan    . 

.  Privation. 

Myrrh  . 

.  Gladttess. 

■y/r  ADDER      . 
..Vi     Magnolia  . 

.  Calumny. 

Myrtle . 

.  Love. 

.  Love  of  nature.     Mag- 

nificence. 

Magnolia,  Swamp 
Mallow . 

Mallow,  Marsh    . 
Mallow,  Syrian     . 
Mallow,  Venetian 

.  Perseverance. 

.  Mildness. 

.  Beneficence. 

.  Consujned  by  love. 

.  Delicate  beaiity. 

ATARCISSUS. 
J.\     Nasturtium 
Nemophila    . 
Nettle,  Common  Sting 

.  Egotism. 

.  Patriotism. 

.  Success  everywhere. 

You  are  spiteful. 
.  Sf'ander. 

Malon  Creeana     . 

,  Will  you  sJiare  viy  for- 
tunes ? 
.  Falsehood. 

ing     . 
Nettle,  Burning  . 

Manchineal  Tree . 

IVT  a  Ti  H  r;^  Iff* 

Nettle  Tree  .         „         .  Cmceit. 
Night-blooming  Cereus  Traiisient  beauty. 

Maple  . 
Marianthus  . 

m   X  J.  U  r  r  U  f  . 

.  Reserve. 

.  Hope  for  better  days. 

Night  Convolvulus 

.  Night. 

Nightshade  . 

.  Falsehood 

Marygold     . 

.  Grief. 

Marygold,  African 

.  Vulgar  minds. 

Marygold,  French 

.  Jealousy. 

/^AK  Leaves  . 

V^    Oak  Tree    . 

.  Bravery. 

Marygold,  Prophetic 

.  Prediction. 

.  Hospitalily. 

Marygold  and  Cypress  Despair. 

Oak,  White 

.  Independtnce. 

Marjoram     . 

.  Blushes. 

Oats      . 

.  The  witching    soul   of 

Marvel  of  Peru    . 

.  Tim.idity. 

■music. 

Meadow  Lychnis. 

.  IVit. 

Oleander 

.  Beware. 

Meadow  Saffron  . 

.  My  best  days  are  Past. 

Olive     . 

.  Peace. 

Meadowsweet 

.  Uselessness. 

Orange  Blossoms. 

,  Your    purity    equals 

Mercury 

.  Goodness. 

your  loveliness. 

M  esembryanthemum 

.  Idleiiess. 

Orange  Flowers   . 

.  Chastity.      Bridal  fes- 

Mezereon 

.  Desire  to  please. 

tivities. 

Michaelmas  Daisy 

.  After-thought. 

Orange  Tree 

'  Generosity. 

Mignonette  . 

.  Your  qualities  surpc^s 

Orchis  . 

.  A  belle. 

your  charms. 

Osier     . 

.  Frankness. 

Milfoil  . 

.  War. 

Osmunda 

.  Dreatns. 

Milkvetch     . 

.  Your  presence  softens 
my  pains. 

Ox  Eye 

.  Patience. 

Milkwort 

.  Hermitage. 

Mimosa  (Sensitive  Pit.)  Sensitiveness. 

pALM      . 

X.      Pansy  . 

.  Victory. 

Mint      . 

.  Virtue. 

.  Thoughts. 

Mistletoe 

.  I  surmount  difficulties. 

Parsley 

.  Festivity. 

Mitraria  Coccinea 

.  Indolence.     Dulness. 

Pasque  Flower     . 

.  You  have  no  claims. 

Mock  Orange 

.  Counterfeit. 

Passion  Flower    . 

.  Religious  superstition. 

M  onarda  Amplexicaul 

IS  Your  whims  are  quite 

when   the    flower   ts 

unbea-yable. 

. 

reversed,  or  Faith  if 

Monkshood  . 

.  A  deadly  foe  is  near. 

erect. 

Monkshood      (Helmet  Chivalry.          Knight- 

Patience  Dock 

.  Patience. 

Flower) 

errantry. 

Pea,  Everlasting  . 

.  An  appointed  meetit$^. 

Moonwort     . 

.  Forge tfulness. 

Lasting  pleasure. 

Morning  Glory     . 

.  Affectation. 

Pea,  Sweet 

.  Departure. 

360 


The   Vocabulary. 


Peach  . 


Peach  Blossom     . 
Pear      . 
Pear-tree 

Penstemon  Azureum 
Pennyroyal  . 
Peony   . 
Peppermint  . 
Periwinkle,  Blue  . 
Periwinkle,  White 
Persicaria 
Persimon 

Peruvian  Heliotrope 
Petunia 

Pheasant's  Eye 
Phlox    . 
Pigeon  Berry 
Pimpernel     . 
Pine 

Pine-apple    . 
Pine,  Pitch  . 
Pine,  Spruce 
Pink      . 
Pink,  Carnation 
Pink,  Indian,  Double 
Pink,  Indian,  Single 
Pink,  Mountain    . 
Pink,  Red,  Double 
Pink,  Single . 
Pink,  Variegated 
Pink,  White . 
Plantain 
Plane  Tree   . 
Plum,  Indian 
Plum  Tree    . 
Plum,  Wrld  . 
Plumbago  Larpenta 
Polyanthus   . 
Polyanthus,  Crimson 
Polyanthus,  Lilac 
Pomegranate 
Pomegranate  Flower 
Poor  Robin  . 

Poplar,  Black 
Poplar,  White 
Poppy,  Red .         . 
Poppy,  Scarlet 

Poppy,  White       . 
Potato  . 
Potentilla 

Prickly  Pear 
Pride  of  China 
Primrose 

Primrose,  Eveteing 
Primrose,  Red 
Privet    . 
Purple  Clover 
Pyrus  Japonica     . 


.  Yoiir     qualities,      like 
your  charms,  are  tcn- 
egtcalled. 
.  I  am  your  captive. 
.  Affection. 
.  Comfort. 
.  High-bred. 
.  Flee  away. 
.  Slux77ie.    Bash  fulness. 
.  IVannth  of  feeli7tg. 
.  Early  friendship. 
.  Pleasures  of  memory. 
.  Restoration. 
.  Bury  me  atnid Nature^ s 

beattties. 
.  Devotion. 
.  Your  presence   soothes 

me. 
.  Remembrance . 
.  UnaniTnity. 
.  Indifference. 
.  Change.     Assignation. 
.  Pity. 

.  You  are  perfect. 
.  Philosophy. 
,  Hope  in  adversity. 
.  Boldftess. 
,  lVo7na7t's  love. 
.  Always  lovely. 
.  Aversic7i. 
.  Aspiri7ig. 

.  Pure  a7id  ardent  love. 
.  Ptire  love. 
.  Refusal. 

.  l7tge7tiousness.   Talent. 
.  White  77ia7is  footsteps. 
,  Ge7iizes. 
.  Privation. 
.  Fidelity. 
.  I7idepe7idence. 
.  Holy  wishes. 
.  Pride  of  riches. 
.  The  heart's  Tnysiery. 
.  Co7iflde7ice. 

Foolish7tess. 

Mature  elegance. 
,  Co77ipefisation,    or    an 

Eq7iivale7it. 
.  Courage. 

Ti77te. 

Co7tsolation. 

Fa7itastic         extrava- 
ga7tce. 

Sleep.    My  baTte. 
.  Be7ievole7ice. 

I  claim,  at  least,  your 
esteefn. 

Satire. 

Dissension. 

Early  youth  and  sad- 
ness. 

l7tco7ista7icy. 

U7tpatro7tized  >72erit. 

Prohibition. 

Provide7tt. 

Fairies'  fire. 


Queen's  Rocket    . 
Quince . 


.  Yoti  are   the  qtteen  of 

coquettes.    Fashion. 
.  Tejnptation. 


QUAKING  GRASS  Agitation. 
Quamoclit .        .  Busybody. 


RAGGED-ROBIN . 
Ranunculus 

Ranunculus,  Garden    . 

Ranunculus,  Wild 
Raspberry     . 
Ray  Grass    . 
Red  Catchfly 
Reed     . 
Reed,  Split  . 
Rhododendron    (Rose- 
bay)  . 
Rhubarb 
Rocket 
Rose 
Rose,  Austrian 


Rose, 
Rose, 
Rose, 
Rose, 
Rose, 
Rose, 
Rose, 


Bridal 

Burgundy 

Cabbage 

Campion 

Carolina 

China 

Christmas 


Rose,  Daily 

Rose,  Damask 

Rose,  Deep  Red 

Rose,  Dog    . 

Rose,  Guelder 

Rose,  Hundred-leaved. 

Rose,  Japan 

Rose,  Maiden-blush 

Rose,  Montiflora  . 
■  Rose, 'Mundi 
Rose,  Musk . 
Rose,  Musk,  Cluster    . 
Rose,  Single 
Rose,  Thornless   . 
Rose,  Unique 
Rose,  White. 
Rose,  White  (withered) 
Rose,  Yellow 

Rose,  York  &  Lancaster 
Rose,  Fll.-blwn.,  placed 

over  two  Buds  . 
Rose,  White  and  Red 

together     . 
Roses,  Crown  of 
Rosebud,  Red 
Rosebud,  White 
Rosebud,  Moss 
Rose  Leaf 
Rosemary 
Rudbeckia 
Rue 
Rush     . 
Rye  Grass 


Wit. 

Yo7(  are  radiant  with 

char7ns. 
You  are  rich  in  attrac- 

tio7is. 
Dtgratitude. 
Re77torse. 
Vice. 

Yo7ithfiil  love. 
Co77iplaisance.    Music. 
Indiscretion. 

Da77ger.     Beware. 

Advice. 

Rivalry. 

Love. 

Tho7i   art  all  that  is 

lovely. 
Happy  love. 
U7ico7iscious  beauty. 
A  7iibassador  of  love. 
07ily  deser've  77ty  love. 
Love  is  dangerous. 
Beauty  always  7iew. 
Tranquillize  my  anxi' 

ety. 
Thy  S77tile  I  aspire  to. 
Brillia7it  co77iplexion. 
Bashful  sha77te. 
Pleasure  a7id  pain. 
Wi7iter.     Age. 
Pride. 
Beazdy  is  your  only  at- 

tractio7i. 
If  you  love  7ne  you  will 

find  it  out. 
Grace. 
Variety. 

Capricious  beauty. 
CJiar77iing. 
Si7nplicity. 
Early  attachment. 
Call  77te  7tot  beautiful. 
I  a7n  worthy  of  yo7t. 
Tra7isient  i77ipressions. 
Decrease    of  love. 

fealousy. 
War. 

Secrecy. 

U7iity. 

Reivard  ofvirt7ie. 

Ptire  and  lovely. 

Girlhood. 

Confession  of  love. 

You  77tay  hope. 

Re77te7/tbrance. 

Justice. 

Disdain. 

Docility. 

Changeable  disposition. 


The  Vocabulary. 


361 


SAFFRON       . 
Saffron  Crocus 
Saffron,  Meadow 

'    Sage      . 
Sage,  Garden 
Sainfoin 

Saint  John's  Wort 
Salvia,  Blue 
Salvia,  Red  . 
Saxifrage,  Mossy 
Scabious 
Scabious,  Sweet 
Scarlet  Lychnis 
Schinus 
Scotch  Fir     . 
Sensitive  Plant 
Senvy    . 
Shamrock 
Shepherd's  Purse 
Sipliocampylos 
Snakesfoot    . 
Snapdragon  . 
Snowball 
Snowdrop 
Sorrel    . 
Sorrel,  Wild . 
Sorrel,  Wood 
Southernwood 
Spanish  Jasmine 
Spearmint     . 
Speedwell 
Speedwell,        German 

der     . 
Speedwell,  Spiked 
Spider  Ophrys 
Spiderwort    . 
Spiked  Willow  Herb    . 
Spindle  Tree 

Star  of  Bethlehem 
Starwort 

Starwort,  American 
Stephanotis  . 

St.  John's  Wort    . 
Stock    .        .        .        . 
Stock,  Ten-week  . 
Stonecrop 
Straw  (broken) 
Straw  (whole) 
Strawberry  Blossoms    . 
Strawberry  Tree  . 
Sultan,  Lilac 
Sultan,  White 
Sultan,  Yellow 
Sumach,  Venice     . 
Sunflower,  Dwarf 
Sunflower,  Tall    . 

Swallow-wort 
Sweet  Basil  . 
Sweetbriar,  American  . 
Sweetbriar,  European  , 
Sweetbriar,  Yellow 
Sweet  Pea     . 
Sweet  Sultan 
Sweet  William 
Sycamore     .        . 


.  Beware  of  excess. 

.  Mirth. 

.  My  happiest  days  are 

past. 
.  Domestic  virtiie. 
.  Esteein. 
.  Agitation. 
.  Animosity. 
.  Wisdom. 
.  Energy. 
.  Affection. 
.  Unfortunate  love. 
.  Widozvhood. 
.  Sunbeaming  eyes. 
.  Religiozis  enthusiasm. 
.  Elevatio7t. 
.  Sensibility. 
.  Indifferettce. 
.  Light-heartedness. 
.  I  offer  you  my  all. 
.  Resolved  to  be  noticed. 
.  Horror. 

.  Presumption,  also  'No.' 
.  Bound. 
.  Hope. 
,  Affection. 
,  VVit  ill-timed. 
.  Joy. 

,  yest.     Bantering. 
.  Sensuality. 
.  Warmth  of  sentiment. 
.  Fernale  fidelity. 

.  Facility. 

Semblance. 
.  Adroitness. 

Esteein,  not  love. 

Pretejision. 

Yo-ur  cJiarms  are  en- 
graven on  ?ny  heart. 

Purity. 

After-thought. 

Cl.cerfulness  in  old  age. 

Will  you  accompany  me 
to  the  East  i. 

Superstition. 

Lasting  beauty. 

Promptness. 

Tranquillity. 

Rjipture  of  a  contract. 

Union. 

Foresight. 

Esteein,  not  love. 

I  forgive  you. 

Sweetness. 

Contempt. 

Splendour. 

Adoration. 

Haughtiness.        False 
riches. 

Ctire  for  heartache. 

Good  zuishes. 

Simplicity. 

I  wound  to  heal. 

Decrease  of  love. 

Delicate  pleasicres. 

Felicity. 

Gallantry.    Dexterity. 

Curiosity. 


Syringa 
Syringa,  Carolina 


.  Memory.        Fraternal 

sympathy. 
.  Disappointment. 


TAMARISK   . 
Tansy,  Wild 

Te"'sel  .        .        .         . 
T>iTidrils     of    Climbing 

Plants 
Thistle,  Common 

Thistle,  Fuller's    . 
Thistle,  Scotch 
Thorn  Apple 
Thorn,  Branch  of 
Thrift    .         .         .         , 
'T'hroatwort  .         . 
Thyme 
Tiger  Flower 

Traveller's  Joy 
Tree  of  Life 
'  Trefoil  .... 
Tremella  Nestoc  . 
Trillium  Pictum    . 
Triptilion  Spinosum 
Truffle  .... 
Trumpet  Flower  . 
Tuberose 
Tulip,  Red    . 
Tulip,  Variegated 
Tulip,  Yellow 
Turnip  .... 
Tussilage,  Sweet-scent- 
ed       .•        . 

A  7ALERIAN    , 

Valerian,  Greek    . 
Venice  Sumach     . 

Venus's  Car  . 
Venus's  Looking-glass  . 
Venus's  Trap 
Verbena,  Pink 
Verbena,  Scarlet  . 

Verbena,  White    . 

Vernal  Grass 

Veronica 

Veronica  Speciosa 

Vervain 

Vine      .... 

Violet,  Blue  . 

Violet,  Dame        . 

Violet,  Sweet 

Violet,  Yellow        , 

Virginia  Creeper  . 

Virgin's  Bower 
Viscaria  Oculata  . 

Volkamenia  . 


Crime. 

I  declare  war  against 

yozi. 
Misanthropy. 


Ties. 

A  usterity.  Indepen- 
dence. 

Misanthropy. 

Retaliation. 

Deceitful  charms. 

Severity. 

Sy7npathy. 

Neglected  beauty. 

Activity  or  Coverage. 

For  once  may  pride  be- 
friend me. 

Safety. 

Old  age. 

Revenge. 

Resistance. 

Modest  beauty. 

Be  prudent. 

Stirprise. 

Fame. 

Dangerous  pleasures. 

Declaration  af  love. 

Bea^itiful  eyes. 

Hopeless  love. 

Charity. 

Jtistice  shall  be  done 
you. 

,  An  acconimodating dis- 
position. 

Rupture. 

Intellectual  excellence. 
Splendour, 

Fly  with  me. 

Flattery. 

Deceit. 

F'amily  union. 

Unite  against  evil,  or 
Church  unity. 

Pray  for  7ne. 

Poor,  but  happy.. 

Fidelity. 

Keep  this  for  m.y  sake. 

Ejtchajitment. 

Intoxication. 

Faithfulness. 

Wa  tchfu  Iness. 

Modesty. 

Rural  happiness. 

I  cling  to  you  both  in 
sunsliine  a7td  sfiade. 

Filial  love. 

Will  you  dance  with 
me  1 

May  you  be  happy. 


WALNUT       . 
Wallflower    . 


Intellect.     Stratagem, 
Fidelity  in  adversity. 

23 


362 

The    Vocabulary.  • 

Watcher  by  theWayside  Never  despair. 

Willow,  French 

,  Bravery  and  humanity. 

Water-Lily    . 

.  Purity  of  heart. 

Winter  Cherry 

.  Deception. 

Water-Melon 

.  BtclkUiess. 

Wisteria 

.  Welcome,fairstranger. 

Wax  Plant    . 

.  Susceptibility. 

Witch  Hazel 

.  A  spell. 

Wheat  Stalk 

.  Riches. 

Woodbine     . 

.  Fraternal  love. 

Whin     . 

.  Anger. 

Wood  Sorrel 

.  foy.   Maternal  tender- 

While Flytrap 

.  Deceit. 

ness. 

White  Jasmine 

.  Amiableness. 

Wormwood  . 

.  Absence. 

White  Lily    . 

.  Purity  and  modesty. 

White  Mullein 

.  Good-nature. 

White  Oak    . 

.  Independence. 

VANTHIUM 
-cV    Xeranthemi 

.  Rudeness.  Pertinacity. 

White  Pink  . 

.  Talent. 

im    .  Cheerfdness  under  ad- 

White  Poplar 

.  Time. 

versity. 

White  Rose  (dried)       .  Death  preferable  to  loss 

of  innocence. 

yEw     . 

.  Sorrow. 

Whortleberry 

.  Treason. 

Willow,  Creeping 

.  Love  forsaken. 

Willow,  Water 

.  Freedom. 

y  EPHYR  Flower    .  Expectation. 

Willow,  Weeping 

.  Mourning. 

Z^    Zinnia  . 

.  Thojights     of     absent 

Willow  Herb 

.  Pretetision. 

friends. 

CfT^^-^ 


?3art   tfje   <Seconti. 


ABSENCE     . 
Abuse  not  . 
Acknowledgment 
Activity  or  Courage 
A  deadly  foe  is  near 
Admiration   . 
Adoration 
Adroitness    . 
Adulation 

Advice  .         .         .         . 
Affection 
Affection 
Affection 
Affection    beyond     the 

grave 
Affection,  Maternal 
Affectation    . 
Affectation    . 
Affliction 
After-thought 
After-thought 
After-thought 
Agreement    . 
Age       ... 
Agitation 
Agitation 

Alas !  for  my  poor  heart 
Always  cheerful    .         • 
Alway?  delightful 
Always  lovely 
Ambassador  of  Love    . 
Amiability     . 
Anger    .        .         .         . 
Anger   .         .         .         . 
Animosity 
Anticipation 
Anxious  and  trembling. 
Ardour,  Ze?J 
Argument 
Arts  4. 


Wormwood. 

Ci  jcus. 

Cajiterbury  Bell. 

Thyijie. 

Monkshood. 

A  iiiethyst. 

Dwarf  Siinflovjer, 

Spider  Ophryi, 

Cacalia. 

Rhubarb. 

Mossy  Saxifrage. 

Pear. 

Sorrel. 

Green  Locust. 

Cinqtcefoil. 

Cockscomb  Amaranth. 

Momijtg  Glory, 

Black  Poplar. 

Michaebnas  Daisy. 

Stnrwort. 

Chijia  Aster. 

Straiv. 

Guelder  Rose. 

Moving  Plant. 

Snin/oiti 

Deep  Red  Carnation. 

Coreopsis. 

Cineraria. 

J7idian  Pink  (double). 

Cabbage  Rose. 

fasmine. 

Whin. 

Furze. 

St.  John's  Wort. 

Gooseberry. 

Red  Columbine. 

Cuckoo  Plant.    Arum, 

Fig. 

Acatithus. 


Artifice 

Assiduous  to  please 
Assignation  . 
Attav,hment  . 
Audacity       .         . 
Avarice         ,        . 
Aversion       . 


Clematis. 

Sprig  of  ivy,  with  ten- 
Pimpernel.  \drils. 
Indian  fasmine. 
Larch. 

Scarlet  Atiricula. 
Chain  or  Indian  Pink. 


BANTERmG 
Bpseness 
Bashfulness  . 
Bashful  shame 
Be  pr'ir'.ent    . 
Be  w-rned  in  time 
Beautiful  eyes 
Beauty .... 
Beauty  always  new 
Beauty,  Capricious 
Beauty,  Capricious 
Beauty,  Delicate  . 
Beauty,  Delicate  . 
Beauty,  Divine     . 
Beauty,  Glorious . 
Beauty,  Lasting   . 
Beauty,  Magnificent     . 
Beauty,  Mental    . 
Beauty,  Modest    . 
Beauty,  Neglected 
Beauty,  Pensive  . 
Beauty,  Rustic 
Beauty,  Unconscious    . 
Beauty  is  your  only  at- 
traction 
Belle      .         .         .         . 
Be  mine 
Beneficence  . 
Benevolence 
Betrayed       .        • 


Sou  themwood. 

Dodder  of  Thyme. 

Peony. 

Deep  Red  Rose. 

Tripiiliofi  Spinosum. 

Echites  A  tro-pnrpurea. 

Va  ri-'ga  ted  Tu  lip. 

Parti-coloured  Daisy. 

China  Rose. 

Lady's  Slipper, 

Musk  Rose. 

Flo7ver  of  an  hour. 

Hibiscus. 

American  Cowslip. 

Glory  Flower. 

Stock. 

Cat  I  a  jEthiopica. 

Clematis. 

Trillium  Pictutn. 

Tlu'oativort. 

Labur7i2im. 

French  Honeysuckle. 

Btirgundy  Rose. 

Japan  Rose. 

Orchis. 

Fo7tr-leaved  Clover. 

Ma  rsh  ma  How. 

Potato. 

White  Catchfly. 


The   Vocabulary. 


363 


Beware 
Beware 
Beware  of  a  false  friend 
Bitterness 
Blackness 
Bluntness 
Blushes 
Boaster 
Boldness 
Bonds   . 
Bonds  of  affection 
Bravery 

Bravery  and  humanity. 
Bridal  favour 
Brilliant  complexion  . 
Bulk  .  .  .  . 
Bulk  .  .  .  . 
Busybody 

Bury  me  amid  Nature's 
beauties     . 


Oleander. 

Rose  bay. 

Francisca  Latifolia. 

Aloe. 

Ebony  Tree. 

Borage. 

Marjoram. 

Hydrangea. 

Pink. 

Convolvtilus. 

Gillyflower. 

Oak  Leaves. 

French  IVillow. 

Ivy  Geranium. 

Damask  Rose. 

Water-Melon. 

Gourd. 

Quamoclit. 

PersitnoH. 


/"^ALL  me  not  beau- 


V_^     tiful 
Calm  repose . 
Calumny 
Calumny 
Change 


.  Rose,  Uniqjie. 
Buckbean. 
Hellebore. 
Madder. 
Pimpernel. 


Changeable  disposition.  Rye  Grass. 

Charity  .         .         .  Turnip. 

Charming      .         .         .  Chester  0/ Musk  Roses. 

Charms,  Deceitftil         .  Thorn  Apple. 

Cheerfulness.         .         .  Saffron  Crocus. 

Cheerfulness  in  old  age  American  Starwort. 

Cheerfulness  under  ad-  Chinese       Chrysanthe- 


versity 
Chivalry 
Cleanliness    . 
Cold-heartedness . 
Coldness 

Colour  of  my  life  . 
Come  down  .        . 
Comfort 
Comforting   . 
Compassion  . 
Concealed  love     . 
Concert 
Concord 

Confession  of  love 
Confidence    . 
Confidence    . 
Confidence    . 
Confidence  in  Heaven 
Conjugal  love 
Consolation  . 
Constancy     . 
Consumed  by  love 
Contentment 


mum. 
Monkshood. 
Hyssop. 
LettJice 
Agmis  Castux. 
Coral  Honeysuckle. 
Jacob's  Ladder. 
Pear  Tree. 
Scarlet  Geranium. 
A  llspice. 
Mothervjort. 
Nettle  Tree. 
Lote  Tree. 
Moss  Rosebud. 
Hepatica. 
Lilac  Polyanthus. 
Livenvort. 
Floiuering  Reed. 
Lime  or  Linden  Tree. 
Red  Poppy. 
Bluebell. 
Syrian  Mallow. 
Hoyabella. 


Could  you  bear  poverty?  Browallia  Jamisonii. 


Counterfeit 

Courage 

Crime    . 

Cure 

Cure  for  heartache 

Curiosity 


Mock  Orange. 
Black  Poplar. 
Tamarisk. 
Balm  of  Gilead, 
Sivallcw-wort. 
Sycamore. 


Death   ....  Cypress. 
Death  preferable  to  loss 
of  innocence      .         .  White  Rose  (dried). 


Deceit  . 

Deceit  . 

Deceit  . 

Deceit  . 

Deceitful  charms 

Deception 

Declaration  of  love 

Decrease  of  love 

Deformed 

Dejection 

Delay    .         , 

Delicacy 

Delicacy 

Depart . 

Desire  to  please 

Despair 

Despair    not,    God 

everywhere 
Despondency 
Devotion,  or,  I  turn  to 

thee  . 
Dexterity 
Difficulty 
Dignity 
Dignity 


DANGER        .        .  Rhododendron, 
bay. 
Dangerous  pleasures  .  Tuberose. 


Rose- 


Dlsappointment 
Disdain 
Disdain 
Disgust 
Dissension 
Distinction 
Distrust 
Divine  beauty 
Docility 
Domestic  iudustry 
Domestic  virtue 
Do     not     despise 

poverty 
Do  not  refuse  me 

Doubt  . 
Durability     . 
Duration 


Apocynum. 

White  Flytrap. 

Dogsbane. 

Geranium. 

Apple,  Thorn. 

White  Cherry  Trett. 

Red  Tulip. 

Yelloiv  Rose. 

Begonia. 

Lic/un. 

Eupaioriunt. 

Bluebottle.     Centaury. 

Cornflozuer. 

Dandelion  Seeds  in  thi 

ball. 
Mezereon. 
Cypress. 

White  Julientte. 
Humble  Plant. 


.  PeT^tvian  Heliotrope. 
.  Sweet  William. 
.  Blackthorn. 
.  Cloves. 

.  Laurel-leaved  Magno- 
lia. 

.  Syringa,  Carolina. 
.  Yellow  Carnation. 
.  Rue. 

.  Frog  Ophrys. 
.  Pride  of  China. 
.  Cardinal  Floiver. 
.  Lavender. 
.  A  merican  Cowslip. 
.  Rush. 
.  Flax. 
.  Sage. 


my 


Shepherd's  Purse. 
.  Escholzia,    or    Carrot 

Flower. 
.  Apricot  Blossom. 
.  Dogwood. 
.  Cornel  Tree. 


EARLY  attachment 
Early    friendship 
Early  youth . 
Elegance 

Elegance  and  grace 
Elevation. 
Eloquence     . 
Enchantment 
Enchantment 
Energy 

Energy  iu  adversity 
Envy     .         .         .         . 
Error    .         .         .         . 
Error    .         .         .         . 
Esteem. 

Esteem,  not  love  . 
Esteem,  not  love  . 
Estranged  love 
Excellence    . 


Thornless  Rose. 
Blue  Periwinkle. 
Priinrose. 
Loc2ist  Tree. 
Yellow  fasfnine. 
Scotch  Fir. 
Lagerstrtzmia,  Ind. 
Holly  Herb. 
Vervain. 
Red  Salvia. 
Camomile. 
Bramble. 
Bee  Orchis. 
Fly  Orchis. 
Garden  Sage. 
Spidertuort. 
Strawberry  Tree. 
Lotus  Flower. 
Camellia  Japonica. 


3^4 


The   Vocabulary. 


Expectation . 

Expectation  . 
Expected  meeting 
Extent  . 
Extinguished  hopes 

FACILITY  . 
Fairies'  fire. 
Faithfulness.  ■  , 
Faithfulness .  . 
Falsehood     .        , 

Falsehood     .        • 
Falsehood     ,        . 
False  riches  . 
Fame    .... 
Fame  speaks  him  great 

and  good  . 
Family  union 
Fantastic  extravagance 
Farewell 

Fascination  .  . 
Fascination  .  . 
Fashion  .  . 
Fecundity  ,  . 
Felicity  .         . 

Female  fidelity  . 
Festivity  .  . 
Fickleness  . 
Fickleness  .  . 
.TUial  love  .  . 
Fidelity 
Fidelity 

Fidelity  in  adversity     . 
Fidelity  in  love 
Fire       .         . 
First  emotions  of  love  . 
Flame   . 
Flattery 
Flee  away 
Fly  with  me 
Folly     . 
Foppery 
Foolishness 
Foresight 
Forgetfulness 
Forget  me  not 
For    once    may    pride 

befriend  me 
Forsaken 
Forsaken 
Fortitude 
Fragrance 
Frankness 
Fraternal  love 
Fraternal  sympathy 
Freedom 

Freshness      .         . 
Friendship    . 
Friendship,  early . 
Friendship,  true   . 
Friendship,  unchangin, 
Frivolity 
Frugality      .        . 


GAIETY. 
Gaiety 
Gallantry 


Anemone. 

Zephyr  Flower. 

Nutineg  Geranium. 

Go7i7-d. 

Major  Convolvulus. 

Germander  Speedwell. 
Pyrus  Japonica. 
Blue  Violet. 
Heliotrope. 

Bugloss.  Deadly  Night- 
shade. 
Yellow  Lily. 
Maiichineal  Tree. 
Tall  Su7tflower. 
Tulip. 

Apple  Blossom.. 

Pink  Verbena. 

Scarlet  Pop>py. 

Michaelmas  Daisy. 

P'ern. 

Ho?iesty. 

Qjceeti's  Rocket. 

Hollyhock. 

Sweet  Sultan. 

Speedwell. 

Parsley. 

Abatina. 

Pink  Larkspur, 

Virgin' i-bower. 

Vero7iica.     Ivy. 

Pbnn  Tree. 

Walljiower. 

Lenioft  Blossoms. 

Fleur-de-Ltice. 

P^irple  Lilac. 

Pleur-de-lis.     Iris. 

Voius  s  Looking-glass. 

Peiniyroyal. 

Vejius's  Car. 

Coluinbi7ie. 

Cocksco7nb.  Ai7taranth. 

Pc7uegra7iate. 

Holly. 

Moo7iwort. 

Forget-me-not. 

Tiger  Flower. 

Garden  A7ie7none. 

Lcibnr7ni77i. 

Dipteracaiithus  Specta- 
.  Ca77iphire.  \bilis. 

Osier. 

Woodbine. 

Syringa. 

Water  Willow. 

Da  77 task  Rose. 

Acacia.     Ivy. 

Bbte  Periwinkle. 

Oak-leaved  Gera7iium. 
■  A  rbor  Vita;. 

Lo7idon  Pride. 

Chicory.     E7idive. 

Btctterfly  Orchis. 
Yellow  Lily. 
Sweet  William, 


'  Generosity    . 
Generous  and  devoted 

affection    . 
Genius  .         .         .         . 
Gentility        .         . 
Girlhood 
Give    me    your    good 

wishes        •         . 
Gladness       . 
Glory    .         .         .         . 
Glory.     Immortality    . 
Glorious  beauty    . 
Goodness 
Goodness 
Good  education    . 
Good  wishes. 
Good-nature . 
Gossip  .         .         .         . 
Grace    .         .         .         . 
Grace  and  elegance 
Grandeur 
Gratitude 

Grief     .         .         .         . 
Grief     .        .        .        . 


HAPPY  love  . 
Hatred       . 
Haughtiness 
Haughtiness 
Health  .        .        .        . 
Hermitage    . 
Hidden  worth       . 
High-bred     . 
Holy  wishes. 
Honesty        . 
Hope     .        ,        .        . 
Hope    .        .        .        . 
Hope     .        .        .        . 
Hope  In  adversity 
Hopeless  love 
Hopeless,  not  heartless 
Horror .... 
Horror .... 
Horror .... 
Hospitality  . 
Humility       .         . 
Humility       .         . 
Humility       .        . 


Ora7ige  Tree. 

French  Honeysuckle. 
Pla7ie  Tree. 
Cor 71  Cockle. 
White  Rosebud. 

Sweet  Basil. 

Myrrh. 

Laurel. 

Daphne. 

Glory  Flower. 

Bo7ius  Henricus. 

Mercury. 

Cherry  Tree. 

Siveet  Basil. 

White  Mullein. 

Cobcea. 

Multifiora  Rose. 

Yellow  jfas77iine. 

Ash  Tree. 

S77iall  White  Bellftwt. 

Harebell. 

Marygold. 


Bridal  Rose. 

Basil. 

Purple  Larkspur. 

Tall  Su7iflower. 

Icela7id  Moss. 

Milkwort. 

Co7'ia7ider. 

Pe7itste77i07i  Azureum. 

Pbi7nbago  Larpe7tta. 

Ho7iesty. 

Floweri7ig  Ali7iotid. 

Hawthorn. 

Sncwdrop. 

Spnece  Pine. 

Yellow  Tulip. 

Love  lies  bleeding. 

Ma7idrake. 

Drago7iswort. 

S7iakesfoot. 

Oak  Tree. 

Broo7n. 

Bi7idweed,  Smali, 

Field  Lilac. 


I  AM  too  happy 
I  am  your  captive. 

I  am  worthy  of  you 

I  change  but  in  death  . 

I  claim  at  least  your  es- 
teem .         .         .         . 

I  dare  not     . 

I  declare  against  you    . 

I  declare  against  you    . 

I   declare  war   against 
3'ou    .         .         .         . 

I  die  if  neglected . 

I  desire  a  return  of  af- 
fection 

I  feel  my  obligations    . 

I  feel  your  kindness 

I  have  lost  all 

I^Ive  for  thee       .        . 


Cape  yas77iine. 
Peach  Blosso7n. 
White  Rose. 
Bay  Leaf. 

Potentilla. 
Veronica  Specioscu 
Belvidere. 
Liquorice. 

Wild  Tansy. 
Laurestitia. 

Jonquil. 
Li7tt. 
Flax. 

Mo7trni7tg  Bride, 
Cedar  Leaf. 


The    Vocabulary. 


365 


I  love    ....  Red  Chrysanthe7iiU7n. 

I  offer  you  my  all  .  Shepherd's  Pjirse. 

I  offer  you  my  fortune, 
or,  I  offer  3'ou  pecu- 
niary aid    .         .         .  Calceolaria. 

I  share  your  sentiments  Double  China  Aster. 

I  share  your  sentiments  Garden  Daisy. 

I  shall  die  to-morrow    .  Gum  Cishis. 

I  shall  not  survive  you .  Black  Mulberry. 

I  surmount  difficulties  .  Mistletoe. 

I  watch  over  you  . 

I  weep  for  you 

I  will  think  of  it  . 

I  will  think  of  it  . 

I  wound  to  heal 

If  you  love  me,  you  will 
find  it  out . 


Mo?intain  Ash. 
Ptcrple  Verbetta. 
Single  China  Aster. 
Wild  Daisy. 
Eglantine.  Sweetbriar. 


Idleness         .         . 
Ill-nature 
Ill-natured  beauty 
Imagination  . 
Immortality . 
Impatience    . 
Impatient  of  absence 
Impatient  resolves 
Imperfection. 
Importunity . 
Inconstancy  . 
Incorruptible 
Independence 
Independence 
Independence 
Indifference  . 

Indifference  . 
Indifference  .         . 
Indifference  . 
Indiscretion  . 
Indolence 
Industry 

Industry,  Domestic 
Ingeniousness 
Ingenuity 

Ingenuous  simplicity 
Ingratitude  . 
Innocence 
Insincerity    . 
Insinuation   . 
Inspiration    . 
■Instability     .         . 
Intellect         .         . 
Intoxication . 
Irony    . 


T  EALOUSY 

J      Jealousy 
Jest 
Joy 

Joys  to  come 

Justice  . 

Justice  shall  be  done  to 

you    .... 


Maiden  Blush  Rose. 

Mesembryanthetnum. 

Crab  Blossom. 

Citron. 

Lupine. 

Amaranth,  Globe. 

Yellozv  Balsam. 

Corchorus. 

Red  Balsam. 

Henbane. 

Burdock. 

Evening  Primrose. 

Cedar  of  Lebanon. 

Co7nmon  Thistle. 

Wild  Plunt  Tree. 

White  Oak. 

Candytzift,  Ever- 

flozvering. 
Mustard  Seed, 
Pigeon  Berry. 
Senvy. 
split  Reed. 
Mittraria  Coccittea. 
Red  Clover. 
Flax. 

White  Pink. 
Pencilled  Geranium.. 
Mo  7cse-ea  redChickweed 
Crowfoot. 
Daisy. 
Foxglove. 
Great  Bindweed. 
A  ngelica. 
Dahlia. 
Walnut. 
Vine. 
Sardofty. 


French  Marygold. 
Yellotv  Rose. 
Souther jiivood. 
Wood  Sorrel. 
Lesser  Celandine. 
Rudbeckia. 

Coltsfoot,     or     Sweet- 
scented  Ttissilage. 


KEEP  your  promise  Petunia. 
Kindness   .         .  Scarlet  Geranium. 


Knight-errantry 


Helmet  Flower(  Monks- 
hood). 


LAMENTATION 
Lasting  beauty 
Lasting  pleasures 
Let  me  go 
Levity  . 
Liberty 
Life        . 

Light-heartedness 
Lightness 
Live  for  me  . 
Love 
Love 

Love,  forsaken 
Love,  returned 
Love  is  dangerous 
Love  for  all  seasons 
Lustre  . 


Luxury 


.  Aspen  Tree. 

.  Stock. 

.  Everlasting  Pea. 

.  Butterfly  Weed 

.  Larkspur. 

.  Live  Oak. 

.  Lucern. 

.  Shamrock. 

.  Larkspur. 

.  Arbor  Vitce. 

.  Myrtle. 

.  Rose. 

.  Creeping  Willo7v. 

.  Ambrosia. 

.  Carolina  Rose. 

.  Furze. 

.  Aconite-leaved  Crow- 
foot, or  Fair  Maid  oj 
France. 

.  CJiestnut  Tree. 


TX/TAGNIFICENCE  Magnolia. 

Magnificent  beauty 
Majesty 
Make  haste  . 
Malevolence. 
Marriage 
Maternal  affection 
Maternal  love 
Maternal  tenderness 
Matrimony   . 
Matronly  grace     . 
Mature  charms     . 
May  you  be  happy 
Meanness 


Meekness 

Melancholy  . 

Melancholy  . 

Melancholy  . 

Mental  beauty 

Mental  beauty 

Message 

Mildness 

Mirth    . 

Misanthropy. 

Misanthropy. 

Modest  beauty 

Modest  genius 

Modesty 

Modesty  and  purity 

Momentary  happiness  . 

Mourning 

Music    .         .         .         . 

My  best  days  are  past . 

My  regrets  follow  you 
to  the  grave 


Calla  ./^thiopica. 

Cro7vjt  Imperial. 

Dianthus. 

Lobelia. 

Ivy. 

Cinque  foil. 

Moss. 

Wood  Sorrel. 

American  Linden. 

Cattleya. 

Cattleya  Pi;tcli. 

Volkamenia. 

Cuscuta. 

Birch. 

A  utumnal  Leaves. 

Dark  Geratiium. 

Dead  Leaves. 

Cle7natis. 

Ke7t7iedia. 

Iris. 

Mallow. 

Saffro7t  Crocus. 

A  conite  (  Wolfsbane). 

Fuller  s  Teazle. 

Trilliic7n  Pic  turn. 

Creepi7tg  Ccteus. 

Violet. 

White  Lit}< 

Virginiati  Sf>ider%vort. 

Weeping  Willow. 

Btitidles  of  Reed  with 

their  Pa7iicles. 
Colchiczitn,  or  Meadmv 

Saffron. 

Asphodel, 


NEATNESS   .        .Broo7n. 
Neglected  beauty  Throatwort. 
Never-ceasing    remem- 
brance       .        .        .  Everlasti7tg. 
Never  despair       .         .  Watcher  by  the  Way- 
side. 
No        .        •        .        .  Snapdragon. 


V^ 


366 


The    Vocabulary.' 


pvLDage. 
V_/     Only  desen 

.  Tree  of  Life. 

Regret  . 

.  Purple  Verbena. 

/e  my 

Relief   . 

.  Balm  of  G Head. 

love 

.  Campion  Rose. 

Relieve  my  anxiety 

.  Christmas  Rose. 

Religious  superstition 

.  Aloe. 

Religious    superstition 

y 

pAINFUL  recollec- 

or  Faith     . 

.  Passion  Flower. 

X       tions     . 

.  Flos  Adonis. 

Religious  enthusiasm 

.  Schinus. 

Painting 

.  Auricula. 

Remembrance 

.  Rosemary. 

Painting  the  lily 

.  Daphne  Odora. 

Remorse        .        , 

.  Bramble. 

Passion 

.  White  Dittany. 

Remorse 

.  Raspberry. 

Paternal  error 

,         .  Cardamine. 

Rendezvous . 

.  Chickweed. 

Patience 

,         .  Dock.     Ox-eye. 

Reserve 

.  Maple. 

Patriotism     . 

,        .  American  Elfn. 

Resistance    . 

.  Tremella  Nestoc. 

Patriotism     . 

.  Nasturtium. 

Resolved  to  be  noticed 

Sip  hoc  a  mpylos. 

Peace    . 

.  Olive. 

Restoration  . 

.  Persicaria. 

Perfected  loveline 

ss      .  Camellia        faponica. 

Retaliation    . 

.  Scotch  Thistle. 

White. 

Return  of  happiness 

.  Lily  of  the  Valley. 

Perfidy . 

.  Co77i77ton    Laurel,     in 

Revenge 

.  Birdsfoot  Trefoil. 

flower. 

Reverie 

.  Flozvering  Fern. 

Pensive  beauty 

.  Laburmim. 

Reward  of  merit  . 

.  Bay  Wreath. 

Perplexity     . 

.  Love  in  a  Mist. 

Reward  of  virtue . 

.  Garland  of  Roses, 

Persecution  . 

.  Chequered  Fritillary. 

Riches  . 

.  Corn. 

Perseverance 

.  Swamp  Magnolia. 

Riches  . 

,  Buttercups. 

Persuasion    . 

.  Althea  Frutex. 

Rigour  . 

.  Lantana. 

Persuasion    . 

.  Syrian  Mallow. 

Rivalry 

Rocket. 

Pertinacity   . 

.  Clotbur. 

Rudeness 

.  Clotbur. 

Pity       . 

.  Pine,  also  Andromeda. 

Rudeness 

.  Xanthium. 

Pleasure  and  pain 

.  Dog  Rose. 

Rural  happiness  . 

.  Yellozv  Violet. 

Pleasure,  lasting 

.  Everlasting  Pea. 

Rustic  beauty       . 

.  French  Honeysuckle. 

Pleasures  of  mem 

ory    .  White  Periwinkle. 

Rustic  oracle 

,  Dandelion. 

Pomp    . 

.  Dahlia. 

Popular  favour 

.  Cistus,  or  Rock  Rose. 

Poverty 

.  Evergreen  Cletnatis. 

QADNESS 
O     Safety  .        , 

.  Dead  Leaves. 

Power  . 

.  I mpe7ial  Montague. 

.  Traveller  s  Joy. 

Power  . 

.  Cress. 

Satire    . 

.  Prickly  Pear. 

Pray  for  me . 

.  White  Verbena. 

Sculpture      .        , 

Hoya. 

Precaution    . 

,         .  Golden  Rod. 

Secret  love    .         . 

Yellow  Acacia. 

Prediction     . 

,         .  Prophetic  Marygold. 

Semblance    .         . 

.  Spiked  Speedwell. 

Pretension    , 

.  spiked  Willow  Herb. 

Sensitiveness         . 

Mimosa. 

Pride     . 

.  Hundred-leaved  Rose. 

Sensuality     . 

Spanish  Jasjtiine. 

Pride     . 

.  Amaryllis. 

Separation    .         . 

.  Carolina  fasmine. 

Privation 

.  Indian  Plum. 

Severity         .        . 

.  Branch  of  Thorns. 

Privation 

.  Myrobalan. 

Shame  .         .         , 

Peony. 

Profit     . 

.  Cabbage. 

Sharpness 

Barberry  Tree. 

Prohibition    . 

.  Privet. 

Sickness 

A  nemone  (Zephyr  Fir.  i 

Prolific . 

.  Fig  Tree. 

Silent  love     . 

Evening  Primrose. 

Promptness  . 

.  Ten-week  Stock. 

Silliness 

.  Fool's  Parsley. 

Prosperity     . 

.  Beech  free. 

Simplicity     . 

A  merican  Sweetbriar. 

Protection     . 

.  Bearded  Crepis. 

Sincerity 

.  Garden  Chervil. 

Prudence 

.  Mountain  Ash. 

Slighted  love 

Vet.  Chrysanthemum. 

Pure  love 

.  Single  Red  Pink. 

Snare    . 

Catchfly.  Dragon PIM. 

Pure  and  ardent  1( 

3ve    .  Double  Red  Pink. 

Solitude 

.  Heath. 

Pure  and  lovely 

.  Red  Rosebud. 

Sorrow  , 

.  Yew. 

Purity  . 

.  Star  of  Bethlehem. 

Sourness  of  temper 

Barberry, 

Spell      . 

Circcea. 

Spleen  . 

.  Fumdtory. 

pvUARREL 
\J,    Quicksighte 

.  Broken  Corn-straw. 

Splendid  beauty  . 

Amaryllis. 

dness  Hawkweed. 

Splendour     . 

.  Austurtium. 

^•^          *•                      *-* 

Sporting 

Fox -tail  Grass. 

Steadfast  piety 

Wild  Geranium. 

p  EADY-ARM 
XV     Reason 

ED  .  Gladioli. 

Stoicism 

Box  Tree. 

.  Goat's  Rue. 

Strength 

.  Cedar.     Fennel. 

Recantation  . 

.  Lotus  Leaf. 

Stupidity 

Horseshoe-leaf     Gera^ 

Recall   . 

.  Silver-lvd.   Geranium.. 

nium. 

Reconciliation 

.  Filbert. 

Submission    . 

Grass. 

Reconciliation 

.  Hazel. 

Submission    . 

Harebell. 

Refinement  . 

.  Garctenia. 

Success  everywhere 

Nemophila. 

Refusal 

.  Striped  Carnation. 

Success     crown     your 

Regard 

.  Daffodil. 

wishes 

,  Coronella. 

2^HE    Vocabulary. 


367 


Succour 

Jtmiper. 

Unite  against  a  common 

Such  worth  is  rare 

Achiinenes. 

foe 

.  Scarlet  Verhena. 

Sun-beaming  eyes 

Scarlet  Lychnis. 

Unpatronized  merit       .  Red  Prijnrose. 

Superstition  . 

St.  John's  Wort. 

Unrequited  love 

.  Daffodil. 

Surprise 

Truffle. 

Uprightness  . 

.  Imbricata. 

SusceptibiUty 

Wax  Plant. 

Uselessness  . 

.  Meadowsweet. 

Suspicion 

Champignon. 

Utihty  . 

.  Grass. 

Sympathy     . 

Babn. 

Sympathy     . 

Thrift. 

TT-ARIETY 
V      Variety 

.  China  Aster. 

.  Mundi  Rose. 

'I^ALENT 
X      Tardiness    . 

White  Pink. 

Vice 

.  Darnel  (Ray  Grass). 

Flax-leaved      Golden- 

Victory. 

.  Palm. 

locks. 

Virtue   . 

.  Mint. 

Taste    .... 

Scarlet  Fuchsia. 

Virtue,  domestic 

.  Sage. 

Tears    .... 

Heleniutn. 

Volubility 

.  Abecedary. 

Temperance . 

Azalea. 

Voraciousness 

.  L7ipi7te. 

Temptation  . 

Apple. 

Vulgar  minds 

.  African  Marygold. 

Thankfulness 

Agrimony. 

The  colour  of  my  fate  . 

Coral  Honeysuckle. 

The  heart's  mystery 

Crimson  Polyanthjis. 

- 

The  perfection  of  female 

^AR       . 

.  York    and    Lancaster 

loveliness  . 

Justicia. 

Rose. 

The    witching    soul    of 

War      . 

.  Achillea  Millefolia. 

music 

Oats. 

Warlike  trophy 

.  Indian  Cress. 

The    variety    of    your 

Warmth  of  feeling 

.  Pepperjiiint. 

conversation  delights 

Watchfulness 

.  Dame  Violet. 

me      .... 

Clarkia. 

Weakness 

.  Moschatel. 

Thee  only  do  I  love 

Arbutus. 

Weakness 

.  Musk  Plant. 

There  is  no   unalloyec 

Welcome,  fair  stranger  Westeria. 

good  .... 

Lapagenia  Rosem. 

Welcome  to  a  stranger    Ajuericaji  Starwort. 

Thoughts 

Pansy. 

Widowhood  . 

.  Sweet  Scabious. 

Thoughts      of     absent 

Will  you  accompany  me 

friends 

Zinnia. 

to  the  East? 

.  Stephanotis. 

Thy  frown  will  kill  me . 

Currant. 

Will  you  dance  with  me?  Viscaria  Octilata. 

Thy  smile  I  aspire  to    . 

Daily  Rose. 

Win  me  ai;d  wear 

me   .  Ladys  Slipper. 

Ties       .... 

Tendrils  of  Climbing 

Winning  gi„v;e 

.  Cowslip. 

Pla?its. 

Winter  . 

.  Guelder  Rose. 

Timidity 

Ajuaryllis. 

Wisdom 

.  Bhte  Salvia. 

Timidity 

Marvel  of  Peru. 

Wit 

.  Meadow  Lychnis. 

Time     .         . 

White  Poplar. 

Wit,  ill-timed 

.  Wild  Sorrel. 

Tranquillity  . 

Miidivort. 

Witchcraft    . 

.  Enchanter's        Night- 

Tranquillity . 

Stonecrop. 

shade. 

Tranquillize  my  anxiety 

Christmas  Rose. 

Worth  beyond  bej 

luty  .  Sweet  Elysium. 

Transient  beauty  . 

Night-blooming  Cereus 

Worth      sustainec 

1     by 

Transient  impressions  . 

Withered  White  Rose. 

judicious  and  t 

ender 

Transport  of  joy  . 

Cape  fasjnine. 

affection     . 

.  Pijik  Convolvulus. 

Treachery     .         .         . 

Bilberry. 

Worldliness,     self 

-seek- 

True  love       .         .         . 

Forget-me-not. 

ing     . 

.  Clianthus. 

True  friendship     . 

Oak-leaved  Geraniu7n. 

Worthy  of  all  pra 

ise     .  Fennel. 

Truth    .         .      ". 

BittersweetNigh  t  shade 

Truth    .... 

Wht.  Chrysanthemum. 

AT-OU  are  cold  . 
JL       You   are    m 

.  Hortensia. 

y  di- 

T  TNANIMITY 
U      Unbelief     . 

Phlox. 

vinity 

.  American  Cowslip. 

Judas  Tree. 

You  are  perfect     . 

.  Pineapple. 

Unceasing           remem- 

You   are    radiant 

with 

brance 

American  Cudweed. 

charms 

.  Ranuncubis. 

Unchanging  friendship 

Arbor  Vitce. 

You  are  rich  in  a 

ttrac- 

Uncons-^ious  beauty 

Bw'gundy  Rose. 

tion    . 

.  Garden  Ranunacats. 

Unexpected  meeting     . 

Lemo7i  Geranium. 

You    are  the  que 

en  of 

Unfortunate         attach- 

coquettes . 

.  Queen's  Rocket. 

ment  .... 

Mourning  Bride. 

You  are  charming 

.  Leschejiaiiltia      Splen^ 

Unfortunate  love  . 

Scabious. 

detis.  • 

Union  .... 

Whole  Straw. 

You  have  no  clain 

is       .  Pasque  Flower. 

Unity    .... 

White  and  Red  Rose 

You  have  many  lo 

vers .  Chorozema  Variutn. 

togetJi^r. 

You  please  all 

.  Branch  of  Currants. 

I 


.^68 


The    Vocabulary. 


You  are  too  bold 


.  Dipladenia 
noda. 

You  will  be  my  death  .  Hemlock. 
Your    charms    are    en- 
graven on  my  heart  .  Spindle  Tree. 
Your  looks  freeze  me     .  Ice  Plant. 
Your  presence    softens 

my  pain     .         .         .  Milkvetch. 
Your  purity  equals  your 

loveliness  .         .        .  Orange-blossoms. 
Your  qualities,  like  your 

charms,  are  unequalled  Peach. 
\our  qualities   surpass 
your  charms      ,        .  Mignonette. 


Crassi- 


Your  temper  is  too  hasty  GraTnmanthes  Chlota- 

jftora. 
Youthful  beauty   .         .  Corvslip. 
Youthful  innocence       .  White  Lilac. 
Youthful  love        .         .  Red  Catchfly. 
Your    whims    are    un- 
bearable   .         .        .  Monarda        Atnplexi- 
caulis. 


'EALOUSNESS     .  Elder. 
f    Zest     .        .        .  Lemon, 


r-n- 


K«HK«iMm.mii1V  IB  K1 


University  of  California  Library 
Los  Angeles 

This  book  is  DUE  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 


H0V2lr 


0 


>  c 


.■f^ 


/ 


-J    A. 


^UU^ 


^ 


8 


MAY? 


Jun   : 


M  ftpR  1 1 2005 


RL  - 


I 


R£CD  V 


RBC'D  YRt  .^  \  9  2005 

APR  1  4  2008 


M 


low 


I 


Form  L9-5( 


974 


3  1158  00620  7814 


X. 


