THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

PRESENTED  BY 

PROF.  CHARLES  A.  KOFOID  AND 
MRS.  PRUDENCE  W.  KOFOID 


ry-^ 


FLORA'S    DICTIONARY. 


BY    A    LADY. 


In  eastern  lands  they  talk  in  flowers, 
And  they  tell  in  a  garland,  their  loves  and  cares; 
Each  blossom  that  blooms  in  their  garden  bowers 

On  its  leaves  a  mystic  language  bears. 

Percival. 

Beautiful  language  !  Love's  peculiar  own. 
Not  for  the  cold,  the  careless,  to  impart, 
By  such  eweet  signs,  the  language  of  the  heart. 

Pickertgill. 

Then  gather  a  wreath  from  the  garden  bowers, 
And  tell  the  wish  of  thy  heart  in  flowers. 

Percival. 


Baltimore : 

PUBLISHED    BY    FIELDING    LUCAS,    JUN. 

NO.      138,     MARKET     STREET. 


Entered  according  to  the  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1831,  by  FIELDING 
LUCAS,  Jun.  in  the  Clerk'a  Office  of  the  district  of  Maryland. 


ADAM    WALDIE,   PRINTER. 


"  Master  T<ouis,  where  have  you  picked  up  so  many  trifles  ?" 

THIS  noted  remark  of  the  Cardinal  Hyppolito  to  the  author  of  the  "  Orlando  Furioso,"  on  his  presenting  him  with 
the  first  copy  of  his  work,  would  be  much  more  appropriate  to  the  present  recueil,  than  to  the  "fine  frenzy''  of 
Ariosto.  Yet  one  may  be  worse  employed  than  in  conversing  with  flowers.  They  are  innocent  companions,  at 
least ;  and,  in  those  hours  in  which  the  most  industrious  look  for  relaxation  and  amusement,  it  will  be  happy  for  us 
if  we  find  no  society  more  noxious,  than  that  of  these  pure  and  beautiful  parts  of  the  creation. 

Do  we  make  the  most  of  the  objects  which  surround  us — do  we  extract  from  them  all  the  information,  and  all 
the  innocent  amusement  which  they  are  capable  of  affording  ?  The  question  is  not  addressed  to  the  scientific ; 
but  to  those,  of  whom  the  writer  admits  herself  to  be  one,  who  are  too  often  content  to  gaze  with  a  vacant  and 
transient  admiration  at  the  works  of  the  creation,  and  then  to  remember  them  no  more.  Here,  for  instance,  is 
this  blooming  earth :  what  an  interest  has  the  science  of  botany  thrown  over  it !  Yet  how  few  are  there,  among 
us,  who  are  disposed  to  taste  of  the  banquet  which  this  science  affords  ! — Again,  these  flowers  interest  us  by 
their  beauty  and  fragrance,  and  here  we  stop.  Travellers,  however,  assure  us,  that  the  people  of  the  East  see 
something  more  in  them  than  mere  objects  of  admiration.  In  the  hands  of  these  primitive  and  interesting  people, 
they  become  flowers  of  rhetoric,  and  speak  their  feelings  with  far  more  tenderness  and  force  than  words  can 
impart.  With  them,  there  is  something  sacred  in  this  mode  of  communication.  It  is  a  kind  of  religious  wor- 
ship— an  offering  of  the  fruits  of  the  earth  ;  and,  1  hough  addressed  to  an  earthly  object,  it  still  retains  something 
of  the  sanctity  which  belonged  to  the  rite  from  which  it  was  probably  borrowed,  and  is  accompanied  with  a  devo- 
tion far  more  true,  and  deep,  and  touching,  than  the  artificial  homage  which  distinguished  the  courts  of  Europe, 
even  in  the  vaunted  age  of  chivalry.  Compared  with  modern  manners,  either  in  Europe  or  America,  what  is 
there  that  can  vie,  in  picturesque  beauty,  with  the  Persian  youth,  gracefully  presenting  a  rose  to  his  mistress  ? 
What  language  can  convey  a  compliment  so  delicate  and  exquisite  ?  and  if  a  communication  of  a  still  more 
interesting  nature  be  intended,  how  much  more  refined,  poetic  and  affecting  is  the  mute  eloquence  of  the  eastern 
lover,  than  those  awkward  and  embarrassing  declarations  which  are  in  use  in  other  countries  !  How  much  easier 
is  it  to  present  a  flower,  than  to  make  a  speech  ! 

It  is  upon  the  hint  suggested  by  this  oriental  custom,  and  for  the  purpose  of  trying,  as  a  matter  of  curiosity, 
how  far  this  emblematic  language  could  be  carried,  that  the  following  collection  has  been  made. 

Mr.  Percival  tells  us, 

"  Each,  blossom  that  blooms  in  their  garden  bowers 
On  its  leaves  a  mystic  language  bears." 

Pity  it  is  that  we  have  no  key  to  this  mystic  language  of  the  East.  Very  few  of  their  emblems  have  reached 
us.  So  far  as  they  are  known,  they  have  been  adopted  in  this  collection.  A  few  others  have  been  borrowed 
from  books  and  manuscripts.  To  supply  the  residue,  which  constitutes  the  far  greater  number,  and  to  furnish 
the  whole  with  appropriate  illustrations,  has  been  the  chief  amusement  out  of  which  this  petit  jeu  has  grown. 
Very  few  of  the  emblems  have  been  attached  without  reason.  In  general,  they  have  been  suggested  either  by 
some  allusion  to  the  specific  flower  in  British  poets,  or  by  its  botanical,  or  its  popular  name,  or  by  some  property 
peculiar  to  it,  such  as  its  hue,  form,  odour,  place  and  manner  of  growth,  sensibility,  medicinal  virtue,  or  some 


VV 


other  circumstance  connected  with  its  history  or  character.  It  would  be  idle  to  swell  this  preface,  and  to  seek 
to  give  consequence  to  a  trifle  so  light  and  airy  as  this,  by  indicating,  in  every  instance,  the  reasons  which  led  to 
the  selection  of  the  emblems :  these  will  present  themselves  readily  to  the  mind  of  the  reader.  A  few,  and  but  a 
few  of  them  have  been  arbitrarily  assumed,  and  this  only  from  the  necessity  of  giving  sufficient  range  and  variety 
to  this  symbolic  language.  If  this  be  an  objection,  it  applies  with  equal  force  to  spoken  language.  For,  although 
such  of  our  words  as  are  intended  to  convey  the  idea  of  sounds,  seem  to  be  manifest  imitations  of  these  sounds, 
and  '•  echoes  to  the  sense,"  as  they  have  been  happily  called,  yet,  the  far  greater  part  of  the  words  which  com- 
pose our  language,  have  no  such  resemblance,  and  must  have  been  necessarily  and  arbitrarily  assumed,  in  the 
first  instance,  as  signs  of  the  ideas  to  which  they  were  applied,  and  gradually  adopted  by  common  consent  as 
expressive  of  those  ideas.  The  adoption  once  made,  whether  in  oral  or  emblematical  language,  the  application 
of  these  conventional  signs  becomes  as  easy  and  accurate,  and  the  use  as  great,  as  if  there  were  a  natural  and 
inherent  relation  between  the  signs  and  the  ideas  which  they  represent ;  all  that  is  necessary  being,  that  the  pur- 
pose of  the  sign  be  understood  in  the  same  way  by  all  who  use  it. 

The  quotations  are  designed  as  poetic  translations  of  the  several  emblems  to  which  they  are  respectively 
applied.  They  are  the  language  of  the  emblem  rendered  in  verse  :  and,  from  the  intrinsic  beauty  of  most  of 
these  quotations,  may  it  not  be  added,  that  these  are  the  flowers  of  poetry  aptly  employed  in  illustrating  the 
flowers  of  the  earth  ?  Some  of  the  lines  are  original  contributions  for  this  little  work,  and  it  is  believed  that  they 
will  be  found  worthy  of  this  association  with  established  poets.  In  some  instances  answers  are  furnished  ;  these 
may  be  tacitly  made  by  returning  a  part  of  the  same  flower  which  has  been  presented. 

The  first  rude  sketch  of  this  little  divertissement  having  been  shown  to  a  few  young  friends,  copies  were  asked 
and  given,  and  one  of  these,  in  the  course  of  last  year,  found  its  way  to  the  press  in  Boston,  where,  it  is  under- 
stood, a  few  copies  were  struck,  with  great  neatness  and  beauty  of  type  and  paper.  The  circumstance  is  men- 
tioned merely  to  explain  to  those  who  may  possess  those  copies,  the  identity  of  the  work,  and  to  exempt  the  lady 
who  has  amused  herself  in  compiling  it,  from  any  original  purpose  of  publication.  Since  the  collection  has  been 
enlarged,  it  has  become  KO  irksome  to  meet  the  request  for  manuscript  copies,  that  it  has  been  found  expedient  to 
call  in  the  aid  of  the  press  to  save  the  time  and  labour  of  transcription.  This  request  for  copies,  and  the  circum- 
stance of  its  having  been  thought  worthy  of  publication  in  Boston,  while  the  little  work  was  as  yet  an  embryon 
bud,  induce  the  belief  that  the  more  expanded  and  finished  form  which  it  has  now  taken,  will  make  it  not  unac- 
ceptable to  those  who  are  themselves  in  the  spring-time  of  life,  the  season  of  flowers  and  sentiment. 

There  are  few  little  presents  more  pleasing  to  a  Lady,  than  a  bouquet  of  flowers ;  and,  if  the  donor  be  disposed 
to  give  them  greater  significance,  it  will  be  easy,  with  this  njanual  before  him,  to  make  his  selection  in  such  a 
way  as  to  stamp  intelligence  and  expression  on  a  simple  posy. 

This  mode  of  communication  may  be  carried  even  beyond  the  proper  season  of  flowers,  by  the  aid  of  an  herba- 
rium, in  which  flowers  are  preserved  by  simple  pressure  between  the  leaves  of  an  album.  Such  an  herbarium 
would  be  an  ornament  to  a  parlour  table,  and  would,  moreover,  encourage  and  facilitate  the  study  of  botany  :  in 
promotion  of  which  latter  object,  a  botanical  glossary  has  been  added  to  the  work. 

The  Lady  who  has  given  her  leisure  hours  to  this  little  play  of  fancy,  has  not  the  vanity  to  attach  any  serious 
consequence  to  it.  The  Itagatelh,  she  trusts,  is  too  light  to  attract  the  grave  censure  of  the  critic  by  profession. 
It  has  been  an  innocent  recreation  to  herself;  and  it  is  with  no  higher  expectation  than  of  affording  the  like 
amusement  to  others,  that  it  is  now  given  to  the  prese. 

Baltimore. 


STRUCTURE    OF    PLANTS. 


A  perfect  plant  consists  of  the  root,  the  stem  or  trunk, 
the  stalk,  the  leaves,  the  flower,  and  the  fruit. 

Roots  are  either  annual,  lasting  one  year,  as  the  Poppy, 
Barley,  &c. ;  biennial,  when  produced  in  one  year,  and 
flowering  the  next,  as  Wheat,  Canterbury  Bell,  &c. ;  or 
perennial,  when  they  last  many  years,  as  the  Rose,  Trees, 
&c.  There  are  various  kinds  of  roots,  some  are  bulbous, 
as  the  Tulip  and  Onion ;  tuberose,  as  the  Potatoe  and 
Turnip  ;  fusiform,  as  the  Carrot  and  Radish ;  orjibrous,  as 
in  Trees  and  Grasses.  The  root  generally  consists  of  two 
parts ;  the  body  and  the  fibres :  the  latter  is  the  part 
which  imbibes  nourishment  from  the  earth  for  the  support 
of  the  plant.  The  seed  of  a  plant  committed  to  the  ground, 
swells  by  the  moisture  it  imbibes,  and,  in  a  few  days, 
throws  out  two  shoots ;  the  first  strikes  downward  into 
the  soil,  and  forms  the  root  or  radical ;  and  the  other  forces 
its  way  into  the  air.  As  soon  as  the  young  plant  feeds 
from  the  soil,  it  requires  the  assistance  of  leaves,  which 
are  the  organs  by  which  the  plant  throws  off  its  super- 
abundant fluid.  Vegetation  is  then  essentially  injured  by 
destroying  the  leaves  of  a  plant.  It  not  only  diminishes 
the  transpiration,  but  also  the  absorption  by  the  roots ; 
for  the  quantity  of  sap  absorbed  is  always  in  proportion  to 
the  quantity  of  fluid  thrown  off  by  transpiration. 

The  Trunk,  or  Stem,  is  that  part  of  a  plant  which  pro- 
duces the  leaves  and  flowers,  and  serves  to  elevate  them 
above  the  ground.  It  consists,  1.  Of  the  Epidermis,  cuticle, 
or  exterior  thin  membranous  covering,  furnished  with 
pores,  which  transmit  or  throw  off  the  excretory  products 
of  vegetation;  answering  to  the  skin  of  animals.  2.  The 
Cor  (ex,  or  outer  bark,  consists  of  vesicles  and  utricles,  (small 
membranous  cavities  or  cells  to  receive  the  sap,)  so  very 
numerous,  and  close  together,  as  to  form  a  continued  coat- 
ing. It  is  among  these  glands  that  the  work  of  digestion 
appears  to  be  performed ;  and  the  product  of  this  elabora- 
tion is  after waids  conveyed  through  the  whole  vegetable, 
by  vessels  propagated  through  all  its  parts ;  these  conduits 
even  passing  through  the  body  of  the  tree,  crossing  the 
ligneous  strata.  In  this  net-work  it  is  that  the  colouring 
matter  of  vegetables  is  decomposed :  the  light  which 
penetrates  the  Epidermis  concurs  in  enlivening  the  colour  : 


here,  likewise,  it  is  that  oils  and  resins  are  formed,  by 
the  decomposition  of  water  and  the  carbonic  acid.  3.  The 
Liber,  or  inner  bark,  is  the  part  in  which  the  vital  principle 
of  a  plant  is  chiefly  seated  ;  its  parts  are  easily  detached 
from  each  other  ;  their  laminae,  (fibrous  scales  or  layers,) 
are  not  extended  lengthwise  along  the  stem,  but  are  curved 
in  various  directions ;  and  leave  openings,  or  meshes  be- 
tween them,  which  are  filled  by  the  cellular  matter  itself, 
and  it  is  from  their  resemblance  to  the  leaves  of  a  book,  that 
they  have  been  called  liber.  It  is  this  part  of  the  bark  on 
which  the  ancients  wrote,  before  the  invention  of  parch- 
ment, or  paper.  In  proportion  as  these  coatings  approach 
the  ligneous  body,  or  wood,  they  become  hard ;  and  at 
length  form  the  external  softer  part  of  the  wood,  which 
workmen  call  the  sap.  The  wood  or  ligneous  part  of  the 
plant,  is  a  compact  fibrous  substance,  formed  by  new 
layers,  which  are  added,  every  year,  from  the  innermost 
part  of  the  bark ;  so  that  the  age  of  a  tree,  or  shrub,  may 
be  ascertained  by  the  number  of  ligneous  circles  which 
appear  upon  cutting  the  stem  near  the  root. 

The  bark  is  the  most  essential  part  of  the  vegetable,  by 
means  of  which  the  principal  functions  of  life,  such  as 
nutrition,  digesting  the  secretions,  &c.  are  performed. 

The  bark  of  a  tree  is  only  a  congeries  of  the  roots  of  the 
individual  buds  of  the  plant.  These  roots  spread  them- 
selves over  the  last  year's  bark,  making  a  new  bark  over 
the  old  one,  and  thence  descending,  cover  with  a  new 
bark  the  old  roots  also. 

The  wood,  or  ligneous  part,  is  not  essential,  many  plants 
being  without  it ;  such  as  grasses,  reeds,  and  all  plants 
that  are  hollow  within. 

The  hollow  Oak-trees,  and  Willows,  are  often  seen  with 
the  whole  wood  decayed  and  gone,  and  yet  the  few  re- 
maining branches  flourish  with  vigour. 

Grasses,  properly  speaking,  have  only  the  cortical  part. 
The  thin  outside  cover  of  the  bark  is  of  great  consequence 
to  them  :  it  is  of  great  strength,  and  appears  to  be  con- 
stituted of  a  sort  of  glassy  net-work,  which  is  chiefly 
siliceous  earth,  as  has  been  lately  ascertained.  This  is 
the  case  in  the  Wheat,  Oat,  and  in  different  plants. 

The  Stalks  are  those  parts  which  branch  out  from  the 


stem,  and  support  the  leaves,  flowers,  or  fruits ;  as  the 
straw  in  grasses ;  the  flower  stalks,  leaf  stalks,  &c. 

The  Pith  is  a  tolerably  firm  juicy  substance,  which  is 
diffused  through  the  inner  part  of  the  stalk,  to  give  energy 
and  vigour  to  the  whole  ;  it  is  abundant  in  young  plants, 
diminishes  as  they  grow  up,  and  at  length  totally  disap- 
pears. 

The  Sap  is  the  fluid  which  nourishes  the  plant.  The 
warmth  of  the  spring  dilates  the  vessels  of  plants,  produc- 
ing a  kind  of  vacuum,  into  which  the  sap  rises ;  but, 
when  the  cold  weather  returns,  the  fibres  and  vessels  con- 
tract, the  sap  is  forced  down  into  the  root;  the  leaves 
wither,  and  are  no  longer  able  to  perform  their  offices  of 
transpiration;  the  secretions  stop,  the  roots  cease  to  ab- 
sorb sap  from  the  soil,  and  if  the  plant  be  annual,  its  life 
then  terminates ;  if  not,  it  remains  in  a  state  of  torpor 
during  the  winter.  The  basis  of  this  juice,  which  the 
roots  suck  up  from  the  soil,  is  water. 

Heat  promotes  vegetation ;  it  excites  the  activity  of 
plants ;  it  increases  the  disposition  of  some  of  their  con- 
stituent parts  for  new  attraction  and  combination,  to  ob- 
tain such  substances  as  may  be  requisite  and  proper  for 
new  growth  ;  it  likewise  causes  them  to  reject  such  mat- 
ters as  would  be  hurtful  to  them  ;  it  hastens  the  dissolu- 
tion or  digestion,  the  formation  and  secretion  of  their 
different  products.  It  enables  them  to  dispose  of  their 
superabundant  portion  of  fluids,  by  promoting  perspiration 
and  evaporation.  Yet  the  heat  must  not  be  too  great,  or 
continued  for  too  long  a  time,  as  it  occasions  a  too  rapid 
digestion,  and  perspiration  of  their  nourishment,  and  con- 
sequently an  exhaustion. 

Plants  have  an  independent  heat  of  their  own.  But,  if 
it  be  difficult  to  account  for  the  spontaneous  production  of 
heat  in  animal  bodies,  as  all  physiologists  have  found,  it 
must  be  much  more  so  to  account  for  the  generation  of 
vegetable  heat.  Light,  and  atmospheric  air,  at  least,  arc 
known  to  be  essential  to  the  vital  functions  of  both. 

In  all  decomposition,  caloric,  or  heat,  is  disengaged,  and 
may  not  the  chemical  process  which  takes  place  within 
the  plant,  supply  it  with  the  heat  which  they  are  acknow- 
ledged to  possess,  and  which,  it  is  asserted,  tempers  the 
cold  of  the  atmosphere ;  while  the  evaporation  which  takes 
place  through  the  whole  plant,  continually  moderates  the 
scorching  heat  of  the  sun  ? 

Dr.  Hunter  observed,  upon  this  independent  heat,  that 


by  keeping  a  thermometer  placed  in  a  hole  made  in  a  sound 
or  healthy  tree,  it  constantly  indicated  a  temperature  se- 
veral degrees  above  that  of  the  atmosphere,  when  it  was 
below  the  fifty-sixth  division  of  Fahrenheit ;  whereas  the 
vegetable  heat  in  hotter  weather  was  always  several  de- 
grees below  that  of  the  atmosphere.  The  same  philoso- 
pher has  likewise  observed,  that  the  sap  which,  out  of  the 
tree,  would  freeze  at  32°,  did  not  freeze  in  the  tree  unless 
the  cold  were  augmented  15°  more. 

But  the  most  remarkable  instance  of  heat  in  plants 
upon  record,  is  what  is  related  of  the  Arum  maculatum. 
Lamarck  sa3's,  in  his  Flore  Fran^aise,  "  that  when  the 
flowers  are  in  a  certain  state  of  perfection,  the  spadix  is 
so  hot  as  to  seem  burning,  and  not  at  all  of  the  same  tem- 
perature as  the  surrounding  bodies." 

Mr.  Senebier  noticed  that  this  heat  began  when  the 
sheath*  was  about  to  open,  and  the  spadix\  just  peeping 
forth,  and  that  it  was  perceptible  from  three  or  four  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon  till  midnight. 

The  Leaves  consist  of  an  immense  number  of  fibres  or 
nerves,  divided  into  two  sets,  one  belonging  to  each  sur- 
face. The  surface  of  the  leaf  is  full  of  minute  pores, 
through  which  it  imbibes  the  dew,  air,  &c.  necessary  to 
the  growth  of  the  plant,  so  as  to  enable  it,  in  some  degree, 
to  dispense  with  supplies  from  the  root ;  as  we  see  in 
plants  which  live  in  the  water,  or  swim  in  that  element, 
which  serves  them  for  food ;  they  have  no  roots,  but  receive 
the  fluid  at  all  their  pores,  and,  by  decomposition,  the 
hydrogen  gas  of  the  water,  which  constitutes  the  chief 
aliment  of  the  plant,  is  separated,  and  becomes  a  principle 
of  the  vegetable;  while  the  oxygen  gas,  the  other  constituent 
part  of  water,  is  thrown  off  by  the  vital  forces,  escaping  by 
the  pores,  where  the  action  of  light  causes  its  disengage- 
ment.— [See  note  1st,  upon  Gas.] 

Air  is  also  necessary  to  the  growth  of  a  plant.  But  the 
air  which  it  requires  is  not  the  same  appropriated  to  the 
use  of  man. 

Drs.  Priestley  and  Ingenhousz  have  proved  that  it  is  the 


*  Sheath,  or  Spatke—a.  kind  of  calyx  that  opens  lengthwise,  and 
puts  forth  a  flower-stalk  or  spadix,  as  in  the  palm  arum,  &rc. 

It  is  also  applied  to  the  calyx  of  some  flowers  which  have  no  spa- 
dix, as  of  the  narcissus,  crocus,  iris,  <$-c.  A  membrane  investing  a 
stem  or  branch,  as  in  grasses. 

t  Spadix— the  receptacle  proceeding  from  a  spatlic,  as  in  the  palm, 
and  some  other  plants,  so  called  from  being  produced  within  a  spatha, 
or  sheath. 


nitrogen  gas  which  more  particularly  serves  them  for  ali- 
ment. Hence  it  arises  that  vegetation  is  more  vigorous 
when  bodies  which  afford  this  gas  by  their  decomposition 
are  presented  to  the  plant  ;  these  are,  animals,  or  vegeta- 
bles, in  a  state  of  decomposition,  or  putrefaction. 

Vital  air,  or  oxygen  gas,  the  other  constituent  part  of 
atmospheric  air,  is  necessary  to  the  respiration  of  man, 
and  other  animals,  and  this  air  is  copiously  emitted  by 
vegetables  :  this  renovation  of  the  atmosphere  being  ne- 
cessary to  make  up  for  the  great  consumption  of  it  by 
respiration  and  combustion. 

Hence  arises  a  mutual  and  essential  dependence  of  the 
animal  and  vegetable  kingdoms  upon  each  other.  Ani- 
mals, in  breathing,  consume  the  oxygen  air,  but  return 
the  nitrogen  for  the  use  of  the  veg. viable ;  while  the  vege- 
table retains  the  nitrogen  of  the  air,  and  the  hydrogen  of 
the  water,  for  its  own  use,  and  returns  the  oxygen  for 
ours.  How  admirable  the  designs  of  Providence,  who 
makes  every  different  part  of  the  creation  thus  contribute 
to  the  support  and  renovation  of  each  other! 

The  carbonic  air  dispersed  in  the  atmosphere,  or  in 
water,  is  also  necessary  to  the  vegetation  of  plants,  in 
order  to  provide  their  carbonic  principle,  which  is  a  con- 
stituent part  of  ihejibres,  oils,  mucilage,  and  other  vege- 
table principle.  It  is  the  basis  of  all  vegetable  matter. — 
[See  Note  Zd,  on  Carbon.] 

Buds  of  trees  may  be  truly  esteemed  individual  plants ; 
and,  if  one  of  them  be  planted  in  the  earth,  with  a  cup  in- 
verted over  it,  to  prevent  its  exhalation  from  being  at  first 
greater  than  its  power  of  absorption,  it  will  produce  a 
tree  similar  to  its  parent. 

Linnaeus  observes,  that  trees  and  shrubs  are  roots  above 
ground ;  for,  if  a  tree  be  inverted,  leaves  will  grow  from 
the  root-part,  and  roots  from  the  trunk  part. 

Buds  and  bulbs  are  all  annual  productions,  termed,  by 
Linnaeus,  the  hybernacula,  or  winter  cradles  of  the  plant. 
And  Darwin  observes,  that  the  same  term  might  properly 
be  applied  to  seeds  also. 

Each  bud  has  a  leaf,  which  is  its  lungs,  appropriated  to 
it. 

Leaves  absorb  carbonic  acid  gas,  or  fixed  air,  by  their 
upper  surface,  and  give  out  oxygen  gas,  or  pure  respirable 
air,  by  their  under  surface;  as  first  discovered  by  Dr. 
Priestley. 

Dr.  Ingenhousz  improved  upon  this  discovery,  by  observ- 


ing light  to  be  necessary  to  these  functions ;  remarking 
that  in  the  dark,  leaves  give  out  a  bad,  or  carbonic  air,  and 
that  fruits  and  flowers  almost  invariably  give  out  the 
last  mentioned  kind  of  air,  at  all  times,  but  especially  in 
the  dark. 

It  has  long  been  known  that  light  acts  beneficially  upon 
the  upper  surface  of  leaves,  and  hurtfully  upon  their  under 
side  ;  and,  if  the  latter  be  repeatedly  turned  to  the  light, 
or  forcibly  kept  in  such  an  unnatural  position,  the  leaves 
grow  sickly,  black,  or  discoloured  ;  as  may  be  seen  in 
plants  trained  against  a  wall. 

Some  leaves,  if  separated  from  their  parent  branch,  and 
suspended  by  a  slender  thread,  will  turn  their  upper  sur- 
face  to  the  light,  and  vary  their  position,  as  the  sun  pur- 
sues his  course.  Sword-shaped  leaves  are  an  exception; 
they  have  no  upper  or  under  surface,  but  are  vertical,  and 
do  not  alter  their  position. 

Light  is  considered  as  a  stimulus  or  agent  which  de- 
composes the  various  nutritive  principles,  to  be  found  in 
the  air  and  water.  It  seems,  in  many  instances,  to  be 
the  sole  cause  of  the  expansion  of  flowers  and  leaves  ;  for 
when  it  is  withdrawn,  they  fold  together  and  droop,  as  if 
dying ;  this  has  been  elegantly  termed  by  Linnseus,  "  the 
sleep  of  the  plants ;"  and  the  Mimosa  pudica,  or  sensitive 
plant,  is  a  beautiful  example  of  it.  This  plant,  if  kept  in 
a  dark  room,  for  a  considerable  lime,  will  require  several 
minutes'  exposure  to  the  solar  light  before  the  stimulus  of 
the  liyht  will  dispose  it  to  unfold,  or  expand  its  leaves. 

Leaves  always  turn  towards  the  light ;  this  is  necessary 
to  the  formation  of  their  colour,  as  may  be  seen  by  the 
common  practice  of  blanching  celery,  endive,  &c.  by  co- 
vering them  from  the  light ;  and  by  plants  raised  in  dark- 
ness, which  are  of  a  sickly  white. 

Vegetables  become  destitute  of  smell  as  well  as  of  co- 
lour, and  lose  much  of  their  combustibility  by  growing  in 
the  dark.  The  celebrated  Dr.  Robertson,  of  Edinburgh, 
gives  an  account  of  a  plant  found  in  the  drain  of  a  coal- 
work  under  ground,  which  was  very  luxuriant,  with  large 
indented  foliage,  and  perfectly  white.  He  had  not  seen 
any  thing  like  it,  nor  could  any  one  inform  him  what  it 
was.  He  had  the  plant  with  a  sod  brought  into  the  open 
air  in  the  light,  when  in  a  little  time  the  leaves  withered, 
and  soon  after  new  leaves  began  to  spring  up,  of  a  green 
colour,  and  of  a  different  shape  from  that  of  the  old  ones. 
On  rolling  one  of  the  leaves  between  his  fingers,  he  found 


that  it  had  the  smell  of  common  Tansy,  and  ultimately 
proved  it  to  be  that  plant,  which  had  been  so  changed  by 
growing  in  the  dark.  Indeed  it  was  recollected,  that 
some  soil  had  been  taken  into  the  drain  from  a  neighbour- 
ing garden,  some  time  before  it  was  found  so  altered. 

It  has  been  ascertained,  by  experiment,  that  the  green 
colour  of  vegetables  may  be  produced  by  the  light  of  a 
lamp,  in  the  absence  of  the  more  perfect  light  of  the  sun; 
as  discovered  by  the  Abbe  Tessier. 

Leaves  give  out  moisture  by  their  under  surface,  in  pro- 
portion to  the  intensity  of  light,  and  not  of  heat;  so  that 
there  is  scarcely  any  evaporation  during  the  night.  The 
water  which  exhales  from  vegetables  is  not  pure,  but 
serves  as  the  vehicle  of  the  aroma  ;  it  is  equal  to  the  third 
part  of  their  weight  every  twenty-four  hours,  in  healthy 
plants. 

Leaves  also  expose  the  sap  which  they  receive  from  the 
wood,  to  the  action  of  the  air,  and  return  it  again  to  the 
bark  by  its  fibres  or  vessels.  They  also  serve  to  nourish 
and  prepare  the  buds  of  the  future  shoots,  which  are  always 
formed  at  the  base  of  the  leaf  stalk,  and  to  shade  them,  as 
well  as  the  fruit,  from  the  too  powerful  heat  of  the  sun. 
Hence  it  is,  that  in  tropical  countries  the  tree  is  never 
divested  of  the  leaf. 

Water  is  the  only  aliment  which  the  root  draws  from  the 
earth ;  and  a  plant  can  live  and  propagate  itself,  without 
any  other  assistance  than  the  contact  of  water  and  air ;  as 
may  be  seen  every  day,  in  the  Hyacinth,  and  other  bulbous 
plants,  which  adorn  our  mantlepieces,  as  well  as  gramine- 
ous, or  grassy  plants,  such  as  wheat,  &c.  raised  in  saucers 
or  bottles,  containing  mere  water. 

In  vegetables,  hydrogen  is  the  principle  which  fixes 
itself,  while  oxygen  gas  (the  other  constituent  part  of 
water)  makes  its  escape. 

But  although  pure  water  is  more  proper  for  vegetation, 
than  water  charged  with  salts,  yet  water  may  be  disposed 
in  a  more  favourable  manner  to  the  developement  of  vege- 
tables, by  charging  it  with  the  remains  of  vegetable  and 
animal  decomposition  :  the  plant  then  receives  juices  al- 
ready assimilated  to  its  nature.  Independent  of  those 
juices  already  formed,  the  nitrogen  gas  (which  has  already 
been  mentioned,  as  constituting  one  of  the  nutritive  prin- 
ciples of  plants)  is  abundantly  afforded  by  the  alteration 
of  vegetables  and  animals,  and  must  facilitate  their  devel- 
opement. 


Although  it  has  been  proved,  by  various  experiments, 
that  pure  water  is  sufficient  to  the  support  of  plants,  we 
must  not,  therefore,  consider  the  earth  as  of  no  use ;  it 
imbibes  and  retains  water  ;  it  is  the  reservoir  destined  by 
nature  to  preserve  the  elementary  juice  which  the  plant 
continually  requires ;  and  to  furnish  that  fluid  in  propor- 
tion to  its  wants,  without  exposing  it  to  the  equally  fatal 
alternatives  of  being  either  inundated,  or  dried  up. 

The  nature  of  the  soil  must  be  varied  accordingly  as 
the  plant  requires  a  more  or  less  considerable  quantity  of 
water,  in  a  given  time  ;  and  accordingly  as  its  roots  ex- 
tend to  a  greater  or  less  distance.  Every  kind  of  earth 
is  not  suitable  for  every  plant ;  and,  consequently,  a  slip 
cannot  be  grafted,  indifferently,  upon  every  species. 

A  proper  soil,  is  one  which  affords  a  sufficiently  firm 
support  to  prevent  the  plant  from  being  shaken ;  which 
permits  the  roots  to  extend  themselves  to  a  distance  with 
ease;  which  becomes  impregnated  with  humidity,  and 
retains  the  water  sufficiently,  that  the  plant  may  not  be 
without  it  when  wanted. 

To  answer  these  several  conditions,  it  is  necessary  to 
make  a  proper  mixture  of  the  primitive  earths,  for  none 
of  them  in  particular  possesses  them. 

Siliceous  (white  sand)  and  Calcareous  (limy)  rnay  be 
considered  as  hot  and  drying ;  the  Argillaceous  (clayey), 
moist  and  cold ;  and  the  Magnesium,  (a  primitive  earth, 
having  for  its  base  a  metallic  substance,  called  Magnesium, 
generally  found  in  combination  with  other  substances,)  as 
possessing  intermediate  properties.  Each,  in  particular, 
has  its  faults,  which  render  it  unfit  for  culture  :  clay  ab- 
sorbs water,  but  does  not  communicate  it;  calcareous 
earth  receives  and  gives  it  out  quickly  ;  but  the  properties 
of  these  earths  are  so  happily  opposed,  that  they  correct 
each  other  by  mixture.  Accordingly  we  find,  that,  by  add- 
ing lime  to  an  argillaceous  earth,  this  last  is  divided ;  and 
the  drying  property  of  the  lime  is  mitigated,  at  the  same 
time  that  the  stiffness  of  the  clay  is  diminished. 

Saline  substances  have  been  supposed  of  importance  in 
vegetation  by  some,  but  they  do  not  appear  essential  to 
the  growth  of  any  sort  of  plant  except  the  Marine ;  such 
matters  may,  however,  be  of  use  to  vegetation,  though  not 
essential  to  it.  That  of  common  salt  may  operate  upon 
plants  as  it  does  upon  the  human  body,  by  assisting  to 
digest  the  food,  without  furnishing  nutriment  itself. 

It  is  upon  this  principle,  I  presume,  that  common  table 


salt  mixed  with  water  in  a  flower  pot,  will  expedite  the 
opening  of  a  rose-bud,  or  other  flower,  when  plucked  from 
the  parent  branch. 

Here  I  will  observe,  that  if  a  small  bit  of  nitre  be  added 
to  the  pure  water,  in  a  vase  containing  flowers ;  the  water 
changed  every  day,  and  a  small  piece  of  the  flower-stalk 
cut  off  each  time  of  the  change  of  water,  the  freshness  of 
the  flowers  may  be  preserved  for  a  considerable  length  of 
time. 

Secretions. — The  sap,  when  exposed  to  the  action  of  the 
air,  light,  and  heat,  by  the  leaves,  becomes  a  new  fluid, 
which  assumes  the  peculiar  flavour  and  qualities  of  the 
plant.  Gum  is  one  secretion,  which  oozes  from  the  cherry, 
and  other  trees ;  resin,  and  turpentine,  are  of  the  same 
nature  ;  as  is,  also,  the  milky  juice  of  the  fig,  poppy,  &c. 
Almost  all  the  fruit  trees  yield  some  sort  of  gum.  And  a 
species  of  the  Acacia  tree,  in  Arabia,  yields  the  Gum 
Arabic,  which  is  the  chief  nourishment  of  the  nations  of 
those  parts,  who  obtain  it  in  great  quantities  from  inci- 
sions which  they  make  in  the  trees.  This  Gum  Arabic 
is  now  in  frequent  use  in  our  own  country  ;  and  forms  a 
good  aliment  for  young  children  ;  particularly  when  on  a 
sea  voyage,  where  milk  cannot  be  commanded. 

Another  secretion  is  Caoutchouc,  or  Indian  rubber,  which 
is  obtained  from  several  species  of  trees  in  South  America 
and  the  East  Indies.  The  botanic  names  of  the  two 
species  found  in  Cayenne,  S.  A.  are  Hacvea  caoutchouc  and 
Jatropha  elastica.  The  fluid  is  collected  from  the  tree 
by  incision  ;  the  colour  is,  at  first,  a  yellowish  white,  but, 
by  exposure  to  the  air,  it  becomes  dark.  Moulds  made  of 
clay,  in  the  form  of  bottles,  shoes,  &,c.  are  dipped  into  it 
repeatedly,  and  afterwards  dried,  and,  when  of  a  sufficient 
thickness,  the  clay  moulds  are  easily  crushed,  and  the 
pieces  emptied  out. 

The  natives  make  vessels  of  it  for  containing  water  and 
other  liquids;  and,  while  soft,  all  sorts  of  designs  are  traced 
upon  it.  On  account  of  its  inflammability,  it  is  used,  at 
Cayenne,  for  torches.  When  warmed,  it  gives  out  a  pecu- 
liar odour,  but  not  an  unpleasant  one ;  from  its  smoke,  a 
considerable  quantity  of  very  fine  lamp  black  may  be  col- 
lected. 

Rectified  oil  of  turpentine,  at  common  temperature, 
will  afford  a  complete  solution  of  it ;  and,  when  mixed 
with  a  solution  of  wax,  in  boiled  linseed  oil,  it  composes 
an  elastic  varnish,  with  which  they  cover  balloons  ;  and 


which  might  be  applied  to  a  variety  of  useful  purposes. 

The  fresh  cut  surface  of  the  Caoutchouc  will  unite  to- 
gether by  simple  contact,  and,  by  a  proper  pressure,  may 
be  brought  so  completely  in  union,  as  to  be  no  more  liable 
to  separate  in  that  part,  than  any  other. 

The  Caoutchouc,  when  cut  in  slips  and  softened  by  im- 
mersion in  boiling  water,  may  be  drawn  out  to  seven  or 
eight  times  its  original  length,  and  will  afterwards,  by  its 
elasticity,  resume  very  nearly  its  former  dimensions.  Dur- 
ing its  extension,  a  very  sensible  warmth  is  produced,  as 
may  be  discovered  by  applying  it  between  the  lips. 

Another  secretion  to  be  found  in  every  vegetable,  in  a 
greater  or  less  degree,  is  sugar ;  but  generally  mixed  with 
gum,  sap,  or  other  ingredients.  It  abounds  most  in  fruits, 
and  roots — as  the  beet,  carrot,  &c. :  but,  more  particularly 
in  the  Saccharum,  or  sugar-cane. 

The  odour  of  plants,  is  a  volatile  oil  of  a  resinous  na- 
ture, communicated  to  the  surrounding  atmosphere.  This 
volatile  oil  is  sometimes  distributed  through  the  whole 
plant,  as  in  the  Bohemia  Angelica ;  sometimes  it  exists 
in  the  bark,  as  in  Cinnamon.  Balm  and  Mint  contain 
their  oils  in  the  stem  and  leaves;  Elicampane,  and  the 
Iris  of  Florence,  in  the  root ;  Rosemary  and  Thyme,  in 
their  leaves  and  buds ;  Lavender,  and  the  Rose,  in  the 
calyx  of  their  flowers ;  Chamomile,  Lemon,  and  Orange 
Trees,  in  the  petals.  Many  fruits  contain  it  through  their 
whole  substance,  such  as  Peppers,  Juniper,  &c. ;  Oranges 
and  Lemons,  in  the  zest  or  peeling  which  encloses  them, 
&c. 

Fecula  is  the  general  name  given  to  the  farinaceous 
substance  contained  in  all  seeds,  and  in  some  roots — as 
Wheat,  Indian  corn,  the  Potato,  Parsnip,  &c. :  it  is  in- 
tended by  Nature  for  the  first  aliment  of  the  young  plant. 

Colour. — The  fixed  colours  of  opaque  bodies  are,  in  all 
probability,  owing  to  their  absorbing  some  of  the  coloured 
parts  of  white  light,  or  rays  of  the  sun,  and  reflecting 
others ;  their  immense  variety  arising  from  a  mixture  of 
the  reflected  primitive  colours,  in  various  number  and 
proportion.  It  is  impossible  to  say  upon  what  cause  the 
disposition  of  reflecting  certain  colours,  in  preference  to 
others,  may  depend.  The  probability  is,  that  it  arises 
from  the  different  textures  of  the  surfaces. 

There  are  some  flowers,  the  petals  of  which  are,  in  dif- 
erent  parts  of  the  same  leaf,  of  different  colours  ;  as  of  the 
Heart's  Ease,  for  instance,  which,  if  examined  with  a  good 


microscope,  will  be  found  to  have  a  different  textmre  of  the 
blue  and  yellow  parts.  The  texture,  also,  of  the  white  and 
red  Rose  is  very  different. 

It  is  from  reflected  rays  that  we  judge  of  the  colour  of 
objects.  The  whiteness  of  paper,  «fcc.  is  occasioned  by  its 
reflecting  the  greatest  part  of  all  the  rays  of  light  that  fall 
upon  it :  the  blackness  of  bodies,  from  their  absorbing  all 
the  seven  coloured  rays. 

The  whiteness  of  the  sun's  light  arises  from  the  union 
of  all  the  primitive  colours.  These  primitive  colours  are, 
red,  orange,  yellow,  green,  blue,  indigo,  and  violet;  ac- 
cording to  Sir  Isaac  Newton.  Dr.  Wollaston,  who  has 
performed  many  experiments  on  the  refraction  of  light,  in 
a  more  accurate  manner  than  had  been  previously  done, 
confines  them  to  four  colours  only — red,  green,  blue,  and 
violet. 

Colours. — Some  philosophers  say  there  are  only  three 
original  and  truly  distinct,  viz  :  the  red,  yellow,  and  blue. 

Providence  seems  to  have  decorated  Nature  with  an 
enchanting  diversity  of  colours,  for  the  purpose  of  beauti- 
fying the  scene,  and  rendering  it  a  sou  -ce  of  sensible  gra- 
tification. His  kindness  is  also  evident  in  causing  such 
a  construction  of  plants  and  grasses,  as  that  green,  the 
colour  most  grateful  and  beneficial  to  the  eye,  should 
predominate. 


Colours  are  but  phantoms  of  the  day, 

With  that  they  're  born,  with  that  they  fade  away  ; 

Like  beauty's  charms,  they  but  amuse  the  sight, 

Dark  in  themselves,  till  by  reflection  bright ; 

With  the  sun's  aid,  to  rival  him.  they  boast, 

But  light  withdrawn,  in  their  own  shades  are  lost. 


Hughes. 


Fairest  of  beings !  first  created  light ! 

Prime  cause  of  beauty '.  for  from  thee  alone, 

The  sparkling  gem,  the  vegetable  race, 

The  nobler  worlds  that  live  and  breathe  their  charms, 

The  lively  hues  peculiar  to  each  tribe, 

From  thy  unfailing  source  of  splendour  draw. 


HYMN  TO  LIGHT. 

*  *  *  * 
Say,  from  what  golden  quivers  of  the  sky 

Do  all  thy  winged  arrows  fly  ? 
Swiftness  and  power  by  birth  are  thine : 
From  thy  great  sire  they  came,  thy  sire,  the  word  divine. 

*  *  *  * 

When,  goddess!  thou  lift'st  up  thy  waken'd  head, 

Out  of  the  morning's  purple  bed, 

Thy  quire  of  birds  about  thee  play, 
And  all  the  joyful  world  salutes  the  rising  day. 

*  *  »  * 

All  the  world's  bravery,  that  delights  our  eyes, 

Is  but  thy  several  liveries  ; 

Thou  the  rich  dye  on  them  bestow'st, 
Thy  nimble  pencil  paints  this  landscape  as  thou  go'st. 

A  crimson  garment  in  the  rose  thou  wear'st, 

A  crown  of  studded  gold  thou  bear'  st ; 

The  virgin-lilies,  in  their  white, 
Are  clad  but  with  the  lawn  of  almost  naked  light. 

The  violet,  spring's  little  infant,  stands 

Girt  in  thy  purple  swaddling-bands ; 

On  the  fair  tulip  thou  dost  dote ; 
Thou  cloth'st  it  in  a  gay  and  party-colour'd  coat. 
»  *  *  * 


Cowley. 


-Hither  emerging  from  yon  orient  skies, 


Mallet. 


Botanic  Goddess !  bend  thy  radiant  eyes ; 
O'er  these  soft  scenes  assume  thy  gentle  reign, 
Pomona,  Ceres,  Flora,  in  thy  train. 

*  *  *  # 

She  comes !  the  Goddess !  through  the  whispering  air, 
Bright  as  the  morn,  descends  her  blushing  car; 
Each  circling  wheel  a  wreath  of  flowers  entwines, 
And,  gem'd  with  flowers,  the  silken  harness  shines ; 
The  golden  bits  with  flowery  studs  are  deck'd, 
And  knots  of  flowers  the  crimson  reins  connect. 
And  now,  on  earth,  the  silver  axle  rings, 
And  the  shell  sinks  upon  its  slender  springs ; 
Light  from  her  aiiy  seat  the  goddess  bounds, 
And  steps  celestial  press  the  pansied  grounds. 

Darwin. 


' 

FLOWERS. 


THERE  are  seven  parts  to  a  flower — the  Calyx,  Corolla, 
Stamens,  Pistils,  Pericarpium,  Seed,  and  Receptacle, 

The  Calyx,  sometimes  called  the  flower  cup,  is  formed 
of  one  or  more  green  or  yellow  leaves,  situated  at  a  small 
distance  from,  or  close  to,  the  blossom ;  its  chief  use  is  to 
support  and  protect  the  other  parts  of  the  flower ;  it  is 
the  envelope  in  which,  in  most  cases,  the  tender  flower 
lies,  for  a  time,  concealed,  as  the  green  leaves  of  a  rose- 
bud, which  cover  the  blossom,  and  burst  as  the  flower 
opens.  In  the  rose,  it  is  situated  above  the  germen,  or  seed 
vessel ; .  but,  in  the  pea,  it  will  be  found  beneath  the  seed 
vessel. 

When  remote  from  the  flower,  as  in  the  Carrot,  and 
other  umbelliferous  plants,  [3]  it  is  called  an  Involucre. 
When  contiguous  to  the  flower,  or  other  parts  of  the  fruc- 
tification, as  in  the  Primrose,  &c.  it  is  called  a  Perianth. 

Some  flowers  have  no  Calyx,  as  the  Tulip— others  have 
them  double,  as  in  the  Mallow ;  but  most  flowers  have  them 
single,  as  in  the  Primrose. 

Linnceus  considered  the  Calyx  as  a  prolongation  of  the 
cortex,  or  outer  bark  of  the  plant. 

Calyx. — The  Perianth  is  not  changed  in  double  flowers : 
hence  the  genus,  or  family,  may  be  often  discovered  by 
the  calyx. 

The  Corolla  is  formed  by  the  delicate  leaves  called  the 
blossom  ;  as  the  red  leaves  of  a  rose,  each  one  of  which  is 
called  a  Petal.  It  is  distinguished  from  the  Perianth  by 
the  fineness  of  its  texture,  and,  generally,  by  the  gayness 
of  its  colours.  The  corolla  is  considered  the  termination 
of  the  inner  bark,  or  Liber. 

The  Stamens  are  threads  within  a  flower,  which  have 
two  parts;  the  filament,  or  slender  part  by  which  they  are 
fastened  to  the  flower ;  and  the  anther  (which  holds  the 
pollen,  or  fine  powder)  situated  on  the  top  of  the  filament. 
They  are  seated  externally  with  respect  to  the  pistils,  in- 
ternally with  respect  to  the  calyx  and  corolla.  They  are 
inserted  either  into  the  calyx,  the  corolla,  or  the  recepta- 
cle, rarely  either  upon  the  germen,  or  the  style.  Their 


number  differs  in  different  genera  and  species  of  flowers, 
from  one  to  a  hundred  or  more. 

The  Stamens,  according  to  their  number,  situation,  and 
proportion,  furnish  the  leading  principles  of  distinction  in 
the  artificial,  or  sexual,  system  of  Linnaeus.  These  or- 
gans are  liable  to  be  changed  into  petals,  in  what  are 
termed  double  flowers;  and,  if  the  change  be  complete,  the 
flower  will  no  longer  bear  a  perfect  seed. 

Double  flowers  become  what  is  botanically  termed  vege- 
table monsters,  by  the  multiplication  of  their  petals,  or 
nectaries. 

In  those  flowers  which  have  many  petals,  the  lowest 
series  of  the  petals  remain  unchanged  in  respect  to  num- 
ber :  hence,  the  natural  number  of  the  petals  is  easily  dis- 
covered, as  in  poppies,  roses,  nigella,  &c. 

The  Pistils  are  the  threads  situated  in  the  centre  of  the 
flower ;  adhering  to  the  fruit,  for  the  reception  of  the 
pollen.  A  perfect  pistil  consists  of  three  parts,  the  germen, 
style,  and  stigma.  The  thickest  part,  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pistil,  is  called  the  germen,  or  seed-bud,  and  contains  the 
rudiments  of  the  young  fruit,  or  seed ;  the  style  stands 
upon  the  germen,  and  serves  to  elevate  the  stigma,  or 
highest  part  of  the  pistil.  The  style  is  various  in  length, 
and  thickness,  but  not  always  present.  The  stigma  which 
is  indispensably  necessary,  is,  in  some  cases,  seated  imme- 
diately upon  the  germen.  The  shape  of  the  stigma  is 
either  simple,  being  little  more  than  a  point ;  or  it  is  capi- 
tate, like  a  pin's  head,  as  in  the  Primrose.  In  most 
grasses,  the  stigmas  are  amply  branched  or  feathery,  to 
detain  the  pollen.  In  the  Mallow  tribe,  there  is  an  abun- 
dance of  viscid  moisture  evident  in  the  stigma,  and  their 
rich  purple,  or  scarlet  colour,  contrasts  beautifully  with  the 
large  yellow  pollen,  whose  bursting,  or  explosion,  may 
almost  be  seen  with  the  naked  eye. 

The  Pericarpium,  or  seed-vessel,  is  the  germen  grown 
to  maturity.  It  varies  extremely,  being  pulpy  in  apples, 
fleshy  in  cherries,  juicy  in  gooseberries,  and  hard  in  nuts. 
In  other  words,  the  fruit  which  we  eat,  is  nothing  more 


than  the  pericarps,  serving  to  protect  the  seeds  till 
ripe. 

The  Seed  is  that  part  of  every  plant  by  which  it  is 
propagated.  The  part  of  the  seed  which  contains  the  future 
plant  is  the  germen,  vulgarly  called  the  eye,  no  seed  being 
capable  of  vegetation,  if  this  be  defective.  The  Anthera, 
or  apex  of  the  stamen,  is  provided  with  a  fine  dust,  called 
the  pollen,  which,  falling  on  the  gummy  matter  at  the  top 
of  the  pistillum,  or  pistil,  is  there  absorbed,  and  carried 
down  into  the  germen,  or  seed-vessel,  where  the  seed  is 
perfected  and  made  capable  of  reproducing  the  plant. 

The  Receptacle  is  the  seventh  part  of  fructification, 
distinguished  by  Linnaeus;  being  the  common  basis,  or 
point  of  connection,  of  the  others.  It  is  not  always  dis- 
tinguished by  any  particular  figure.  In  simple  flowers,  it 
is,  often,  little  more  than  a  point :  in  compound  flowers,  it 
is  very  remarkable,  and  important,  serving,  by  its  differ- 
ences of  structure,  to  afford  very  good  generic  distinctions. 

The  receptacle  of  the  fructification  is  common  both  to 
the  flower  and  the  fruit,  or  it  embraces  the  corol  and  the 
germ. 

A  proper  receptacle  belongs  to  one  fructification  only ; 
a  common  receptacle  connects  several  florets,  or  distinct 
fructifications. 

In  some  plants  the  receptacle  undergoes  great  changes, 
acquiring  a  different  texture  in  the  fruit,  from  what  it  had 
in  the  flower.  Thus,  the  whole  fruit,  as  we  call  it,  of  the 
Fig,  is  a  common  receptacle,  at  first  coriaceous,  (resembling 
leather,  or  tough,)  and,  like  the  rest  of  the  plant,  contain, 
ing  a  milky  acrid  juice.  It  forms  a  bag,  lined  with  florets, 
or  small  flowers,  and  having  a  small  aperture  at  the  top ; 
after  the  flowers  are  past,  this  bag  becomes  pulpy,  colour- 
ed, and  full  of  sweet  aromatic  juice.  So  the  fruit  of  the 
Strawberry  is,  originally,  a  small,  dry  receptacle,  subse- 
quently enlarged,  and  become  pulpy,  whose  outside  is 
studded  with  naked  seeds. 

The  Receptacle  of  the  flower,  in  Linntean  language, 
means  the  area,  or  space  between  the  stamens  and  styles, 
in  certain  genera  whose  germen  is  inferior  ;  as  the  whole 
umbelliferous  order,  Hemlock,  Parsley,  &c.  in  which  the 
part  in  question  is  more  or  less  tumid,  often  coloured,  and 
assumes  a  glandular  aspect. 

According  to  another  definition,  the  Receptacle  of  the 
flower,  is  the  base  to  which  the  parts  of  the  flower,  exclu- 
sive of  the  germen,  are  fixed. 


Nectary,  or  honey -cup,  is  that  part  of  the  flower,  from 
which  bees,  and  other  insects,  extract  the  honey  ;  a  fluid 
found  almost  universally  in  flowers. 

The  shape  and  structure  of  the  nectarium,  or  nectary, 
is  extremely  various  ;  but  commonly  uniform  in  flowers  of 
the  same  genus ;  very  frequently,  indeed,  supplying  the 
most  clear  and  decisive  marks,  by  which  one  genus  is 
distinguished  from  another. 

In  the  Crown  Imperial,  the  nectary  is  a  mere  cup,  or 
depression  ;  in  the  Lily,  a  bordered  furrow  in  the  claw  of 
each  petal ;  in  the  Violet,  the  base  of  one  petal  is  elongated 
into  a  spur,  or  bag,  containing  the  honey ;  in  the  Nastur- 
tium, the  nectariferous  spur  is  an  elongation  of  the  calyx. 

In  the  Epimedium,  or  Sarron-wort,  the  nectary  is  of 
the  nature  and  texture  of  petals,  but  perfectly  distinct 
from  them,  as  well  as  from  the  calyx ;  while,  in  the  Lark- 
spur, and  Columbine,  there  are  nectaries  more  or  less 
agreeing  with  their  petals,  but  no  calyx.  Hence,  some 
botanists  reckon  their  petals,  though  coloured,  the  calyx, 
and  their  nectaries  the  only  corolla.  The  neighbouring 
genus  Ranunculus,  whose  nectaries  are  pores  in  the  claws 
of  its  petals,  certainly  gives  weight  to  such  a  determina- 
tion. 

Some  flowers  display  an  elaborate  apparatus,  which 
cannot  be  demonstrated  to  have  any  concern  in  the  secret- 
ing, or  holding  the  honey.  Such  are  the  five  green  bodies, 
fringed  with  bristles,  each  of  which  bears  a  globe,  in  the 
elegant  Parnassia,  or  Grass  of  Parnassus.  These,  not 
being  referable  to  any  other  of  the  usual  parts  of  fructifica- 
tion, all  of  which  are  present  besides,  are,  by  analogy,  pre- 
sumed to  be  nectaries. 

The  numerous  and  complex  rays  which  decorate  the 
Passion  Jlower,  are  equally  inexplicable  in  their  nature. 
But  they  crown  the  cell  where  the  copious  honey  is  lodged, 
while  their  cellular  texture,  and  vivid  variegation  of  colour, 
indicate  their  connection  with  air  and  light,  two  great 
probable  agents  in  the  secretion  of  that  saccharine  fluid  ; 
nor  does  it  appear  at  all  improbable,  that  they  share  in  its 
elaboration.  In  other  cases,  the  richly  coloured  petals  of 
flowers  possibly  answer  the  same  end. 


ARRANGEMENT  OF  FLOWERS. 

Flowers  are  arranged  into  Classes,  Orders,  Genera,  and 
Species. 


Linnasus  has  divided  the  vegetable  kingdom  into  twenty- 
four  classes,  which  are  subdivided  into  orders.  Distinc- 
tions in  each  order  produce  a  further  division  into  genera ; 
and  genera  are  again  subdivided  into  species. 

A  Class  has  been  aptly  described  as  bearing  some  re- 
semblance to  an  army,  an  order  to  a  regiment,  a  genus  to  a 
company,  and  a  species  to  a  soldier. 

In  distinguishing  a  plant,  two  words  are  employed  ;  the 
first,  which  is  called  the  generic  name,  is  common  to  all 
the  species  of  the  same  genus  ;  and  the  second,  termed  the 
specific  name,  is  confined  to  a  single  species ;  as  Rosa  mus- 
cosa,  the  botanical  name  for  the  Moss  Rose.  Here,  rosa 
is  the  generic  name  applicable  to  the  whole  genus  or  fami- 
ly of  roses ;  and  muscosa  is  the  specific  name,  used  to  dis- 
tinguish the  particular  kind  or  species  of  rose. 

The  families,  or  genera,  are  characterised  by  the  ana- 
logy of  all  the  parts  of  the  flower,  or  fructification.  The 
species  axe  distinguished  by  the  foliage  of  the  plant ;  and 
the  varieties,  by  an  accidental  circumstance  of  colour, 
taste,  or  odour.  The  seeds  of  these  do  not  always  pro- 
duce plants  similar  to  the  parent :  this  is  more  certainly 
accomplished  by  grafts  or  layers. 

CLASS. 

The  names  of  the  classes  are  formed  of  Greek  words, 
expressive  of  the  characters  of  each  class.  Those  of  the 
first  ten  may  be  easily  remembered,  by  considering  the 
word  andria,  as  meaning  stamens,  and  annexing,  it  to  the 
Greek  numerals. 

The  first  ten  classes  are  distinguished  simply  by  the 
number  of  the  stamens ;  except  the  fourth  and  sixth — 
these  have  stamens  of  the  same  length.  The  fourth  has 
four  of  the  same  length — the  sixth,  six  of  the  same  length. 

THE  NAMES  OF  THE  CLASSES. 

1.  Monandria — 1  stamen — as  in  the  Ginger,  Cardamo- 

mom,  Arrow  root,  Turmeric,  &.c. 
The  plants  of  this  class  are  very  few, 
and  chiefly  found  in  tropical  coun- 
tries. There  are  none  of  this  class 
introduced  into  this  Dictionary. 

2.  Diandria — 2  stamens — as  in  the  Lilac,   Jasmine, 

Sage,  Fringe  tree,  &c. 


3.  Triandria — 3  stamens,  as  in  the  Spring  Crocus,  Iris, 

&c.  In  this  class  is  found  all  the 
different  species  of  Grasses  that  cover 
our  fields,  as  also  Wheat,  Rye,  Oats, 
Sugar-cane,  &c. 

4.  Tetrandria — 4  stamens,  as  in  the  Dogwood,  Holly, 

&c. 

5.  Pentandria — 5  stamens,  as  in  the  Violet,  Parsley, 

Flax,  Hemlock.  This  is  the  most 
numerous  of  all  the  classes,  and 
comprehends  more  than  one-tenth  of 
the  plants  at  present  known.  In 
this  you  find  the  Potato,  Deadly 
Night  Shade,  Tomato,  Capsicum, 
Tobacco  plant,  Coffee-tree,  Currant, 
Gooseberry,  &c. 

6.  Hexandria — 6  stamens,  as  in  the  Rice,  Sorrel,  As- 

paragus, Lily,  &c. 

7.  Heptandria — 7   stamens,  as  in  the  Horse-ehesnut, 

tm 

There    are    fewer    plants  in  this 
class  than  in  any  other. 

8.  Octandria — 8    stamens,   as  in    the    Whortleberry, 

Evening  Primrose,  &c. 

9.  Enneandria — 9  stamens,  as  in  the  Laurel,  Rhubarb, 

&c. 

10.  Decandria — 10  stamens,  as  in  the  Locust  tree,  Rue, 

Pink,  &c. 

11.  Dodecandria — has  from  twelve  to  nineteen  stamens 

in  each  flower,  as  in  the  Mignonette, 
House  leek,  &c. 

12.  Icosandria — 20,  or  more  stamens,  attached  to  the 

calyx,  or  sometimes,  in  part,  to  the 
corolla.  In  this  class  the  calyx  is 
always  of  one  piece,  divided  at  its 
border,  and  usually  permanent. 
The  character  of  this  class  indicates 
the  pulpy  fruits,  which  belong  to  it, 
to  be  wholesome.  "  Sir  J.  E.  Smith 
has  observed,  that  no  traveller,  in 
the  most  unknown  wilderness,  need 
to  be  afraid  to  eat  the  fruit  of  any 
plant  whose  stamens  grow  upon  the 
calyx." 

The    apple,    cherry,  pear,  plum, 


&c.  belong  to  this  class ;  as  do  the 
Rose,  Hawthorn,  &c. 

Flowers  that  &re.douUe  ought  not 
to  be  consulted,  as  they  lose  their 
distinctive  characters ;  and  are, 
therefore,  useless  to  the  botanist. 

The  Dog-rose,  or  Rosa  canina, 
which  grows  wild  in  the  woods,  is 
a  good  specimen  of  this  class. 

13.  Polyandria — has  generally  more  than  twenty  sta- 

mens, sometimes  less.  The  charac- 
ter depends  on  the  part  to  which 
they  are  attached,  which  is  the  re- 
ceptacle. The  calyx  of  this  class  (if 
the  flower  have  one)  consists  of  two 
or  more  leaves,  which  generally  fall 
off  so  soon  as  the  blossom  opens. 

It  is  important  to  preserve  the 
twelfth  and  thirteenth  classes  dis- 
tinct ;  as  some  late  botanists  have 
injudiciously  united  them  into  one 
class.  In  this  class  is  found  the 
Butter-cup,  Larkspur,  Poppy,  &c. 

14.  Didynamia — has  two  short  and  four  long  stamens — 

as  in  the  Snap  Dragon,  Mint,  Thyme, 
Lavender,  &c. 

All  plants  of  this  class,  which 
have  naked  seeds,  are  aromatic. 

15.  Tetradynamia — two  short  and  four  long  stamens — 

as  in  the  Wall  Flower,  Cabbage,  Ra- 
dish, Turnip,  etc. 

The  more  readily  to  distinguish 
this  class  from  the  sixth,  in  which 
the  stamens  are  of  equal  length,  it 
may  be  noticed  that  the  flowers  of 
the  15th  class  have  always  four  petals, 
which  form  a  cross,  being  regularly 
placed  in  pairs  opposite  to  each  other, 
and  are  thence  called  cruciform  or 
cross-shaped. 

In    the    16th,    17th,    and    18th 

classes,  the  stamens  are  united,  by 

the  lower  parts  of  the  filaments,  into 

parcels  or  brotherhoods. 

16.  Monadelphia — The   stamens  are   all  united  in  a 


tube  around  the  pistil,  forming  one 
brotherhood.  They  are  united  at  the 
bottom,  but  separated  at  the  top. 
In  this  class  are  the  beautiful  family 
of  Geraniums,  the  Cotton  Plant, 
Mallow,  &c. 

17.  Diadelphia — The  stamens  are  united  into  two  bro- 

therhoods or  parcels.  The  flowers 
belonging  to  this  class  are  all  of  the 
same  form,  called  papilionaceous,  or 
butterfly-shaped — as  the  Pea,  Clover, 
Broom,  &c. 

18.  Polyadelphia — The  stamens  are  collected  into  more 

than  two  sets,  each  parcel  united  at 
the  bottom  by  the  filaments.  This 
class  does  not  contain  many  plants. 
In  it  are  found  the  Orange,  St. 
John's  Wort,  &c. 

19.  Syngenesia — The  stamens  are  united  by  their  an- 

thers, into  a  tube,  but  the  filaments 
are  separate.  The  Dandelion,  Sun 
Flower,  &c.  are  in  this  class. 

20.  Gynandria — The  stamens  grow  out  of  the  pistil,  as 

in  the  Ladies  Slipper,  Orchis,  &c. 
"  Linnaeus  included  in  this  class  all 
plants  of  which  the  parts  in  question 
were  in  any  sense  united  above  the 
receptacle  of  the  flower.  Thus 
Passiflora,  or  the  Passion  flower, 
whose  germen  is  elevated  on  a  co- 
lumnar basis,  and  the  stamens  in- 
serted into  the  summit  of  the  same 
part,  just  below  it,  was  considered 
as  Gynandrous.  Such  a  principle  is 
attended  with  great  inconvenience, 
as  in  Grewia,  an  oriental  shrub, 
some  species  of  which  have  a  consi- 
derable elevation  of  the  germen,  and 
others  little  or  none.  It  is  found, 
therefore,  by  far  most  convenient, 
not  to  consider  such  insertion  or 
union  at  all  as  the  character  of  a 
class  or  order,  unless  it  takes  place 
upon  or  above  the  germen;  or,  in  other 
words,  unless  the  stamens  grow  out 


of  the  germen  or  style.  Such  is  the 
case  decidedly  in  all  the  natural 
family  of  OrchidecB,  or  Orchis  tribe, 
as  well  as  in  Forestera  and  Stylidium. 
On  these  the  class  remains  very 
firmly  established." — See  Rces's  Cy- 
clopedia. 

21.  Moncecia — The  stamens  and  pistils  are  in  separate 

flowers,  but  on  the  same  plant ;  as 
in  the  Cucumber,  Gourd,  Palma- 
Christi,  Arbor  Vita,  Red  Mulberry, 
Box  tree,  Indian  Corn  or  Zea,  Oak, 
Walnut,  Pine,  Amaranth,  SfC. 

22.  Dicecia — The    stamens    and   pistils    in    separate 

flowers,  and  on  separate  plants ;  as 
in  the  Hop,  Willow,  Spinage,  Hemp, 
Juniper,  Red  Cedar,  Yew,  Poplar, 
(Lombardy,  and  other  Poplars,)  Mis- 
tletoe,  &c. 

23.  Polygamia — The  stamens  variously  situated ;  the 

stamens  and  pistils  being  sometimes 
found  in  the  same  flower ;  sometimes, 
flowers  with  stamens  only;  others, 
with  pistils  only,  and  these  are  placed 
either  on  the  same  plant,  or  on  two 
or  three  different  ones.  Such  a 
diversity  is  very  prevalent  among 
the  trees  of  tropical  climates,  which 
are,  most  of  them,  more  or  less  poly- 
gamous, as  is  the  case  also  with  many 
grasses.  Yet  such  a  character,  being 
not  always  permanent,  leads  to  much 
difficulty  in  practice. 

In  this  class  are  to  be  found  the 
Ash-tree,  Fig,  Maple,  Mimosa  pudica, 
Acacia  of  Arabia,  &c. 

The  writer  of  the  article  under 
the  head  Polygamia,  for  Rees's  Cy- 
clopedia, suggests  a  limitation  of  this 
class  to  those  Genera  which  have  a 
difference  of  structure  in  the  acces- 
sory parts  of  their  flowers,  (the  calyx, 
corolla,  &c.)  independent  of  the 
stamens  and  pistils  ;  flowers  so  con- 
structed being  permanently  distinct ; 


and  asserts,  that  "  if  the  class  can- 
not be  supported  on  this  foundation, 
it  must  fall  to  the  ground."  Some 
botanists  have  hastily  abolished  the 
class  altogether. 

24.  Cryptogamia — The  flowers  of  this  class  invisible  to 
the  naked  eye.  It  includes  Ferns, 
Mushrooms,  Mosses,  Sea-weed,  Li- 
chens, or  Liverwort,  £c. 

ORDERS  OF  THE  FOREGOING  CLASSES. 

The  names  of  the  first  thirteen  orders  are  formed  from 
the  Greek  numerals,  but  with  the  addition  of  the  word 
gynia,  instead  ofandria.  The  first  thirteen  distinguished 
entirely  by  the  number  of  pistils.  The  styles  to  be  count- 
ed from  their  base.  When  the  styles  are  wanting,  the 
number  of  stigmas  determine  the  order. 

NAMES  OF  THE  FIRST  THIRTEEN  ORDERS  : 

Monogynia — 1  Pistil.  Heptagynia — 7  Pistils. 

Digynia — 2  Pistils.  Octagynia — 8  Pistils. 

Trigynia — 3  Pistils.  Enneagynia — 9  Pistils. 

Tetragynia — 4  Pistils.        Decagynia — 10  Pistils. 

Pentagynia — 5  Pistils.        Dodecagynia — 12  Pistils. 

Hexagynia — 6  Pistils.         Poly  gynia — Many  Pistils. 

The  14th  Class  has  2  Orders — Gymnospermia,  seeds 
naked  at  the  bottom  of  the  calyx ;  as  in  Laven- 
der, Mint,  &c.  And  Angiospermia,  where  the 
seeds  are  enclosed  in  a  seed  vessel ;  as  in  the  Fox 
Glove.  None  of  the  Genera  of  the  14th  or  15th 
Classes  have  more  than  one  style.  The  characters 
of  the  Orders  are,  therefore,  taken  from  the  peri- 
carp. 

15th  Class  has  2  Orders ;  distinguished  by  the  form  of 
the  pericarp,  or  seed  vessel ;  as  Siliquosa,  long 
pods,  as  the  Wall  flower,  &c. ;  and  Siliculosa, 
short  pods ;  as  Honesty,  or  Satin  Flower. 

The  16,  17, 18th  Classes — In  these  the  Orders  are  deno- 
minated from  the  number  of  their  stamens. 

19th  Class  has  5  Orders — distinguished  by  the  epithet 
Polygamia.  Intimating,  that  the  flowers  are 
compound,  and  consist  of  numerous  florets,  or 
small  flowers,  seated  on  a  common  receptacle. 


1.  Polygamia  ^Equalis. — In  this  Order,  all  the  florets 

are  equally  possessed  of  stamens  and 
pistils  ;  as  the  Dandelion. 

2.  Polygamia   Superflua. — The  florets  of  the  disk,  or 

central  part  of  the  flower,  have  both 
stamens  and  pistils  ;  those  of  the  ray,  or 
circumference,  have  only  pistils  :  but  the 
latter,  as  well  as  the  former,  produce 
fertile  seeds  ;  as  the  China  Aster. 

3.  Polygamia  Frustanea. — The  florets  of  the  disk  have 

both  stamens  and  pistils  ;  those  of  the 
ray  neither  one  nor  the  other,  or  are  only 
abortive  pistils ;  as  the  Sun  Flower, 
Arkansa  coreopsis,  &c. 

4.  Polygamia  Necessaria. — The  florets  of  the  disk  have 

efficient  stamens,  but  abortive  pistils ; 
those  of  the  ray,  fertile  pistils,  impreg- 
nated by  the  stamens  of  the  disk ;  as 
the  Marigold,  or  Calendula. 

5.  Polygamia  Segregata. — Distinguished  by  its  doubly 

compound  flowers, — each  floret  having 
its  own  calyx,  in  addition  to  that  which 
surrounds  the  common  receptacle,  and 
forms  the  whole  into  one  compound 
flower  ;  as  in  the  Globe  Thistle. 

20.  21.  Classes.  In  these,  the  Orders  have  the  same 
names  as  the  preceding  classes,  and  are  distin- 
guished by  the  number  of  stamens,  or  by  the 
union  either  of  the  filaments,  or  of  the  anthers, 
or  by  the  attachment  of  the  stamens  to  the  pis- 
tils. 

22.  This  Class  has  8  Orders — the  first  seven  deno- 

minated from  the  number  of  stamens.  The 
eighth  order,  Monadelphia,  by  the  stamens  being 
united  into  one  set ;  as  the  Juniper,  Yew,  &c. 

23.  The  Order,  denominated  from  the  number  of  the 

houses,  or  plants,  on  which  the  several  kinds  of 
flowers  are  to  be  found.  It  has  three  Orders  : 
Monoscia,  when  the  stamens  and  pistils  are  in 
separate  flowers,  but  on  the  same  plant.  Diaecia, 
having  the  stamniferous  and  pistiliferous  flowers 
on  two  separate  plants.  And  Tricecia,  when  the 
different  kinds  of  flowers  are  distributed  among 
three  distinct  individual  plants. 
Linn&us  devoted  the  greater  part  of  his  life  to  the  study 


of  Botany.  He  was  the  first  who  pointed  out  the  difference 
between  the  natural  and  the  artificial  method  of  arrang- 
ing plants.  His  sexual  system  is  an  example  of  the  latter, 
though  many  of  its  Classes,  or  Orders,  happen  to  be  like- 
wise natural  assemblages. 

Many  systems  of  classification  have  since  been  at- 
tempted, but,  notwithstanding  the  acknowleged  merit  of 
these  essays,  the  Linnsean  system  continues  to  be  the 
prevailing  system,  to  which  all  the  new  Genera,  consti- 
tuted for  plants  since  discovered,  are  regularly  referred. 
And  it  is  to  the  advantage  of  the  science,  that  it  should, 
for  a  long  time  yet  to  come,  preserve  its  ascendency. 

It  is  the  system  of  Linnaeus  that  has  chiefly  been 
adopted  in  this  little  compilation. 

Bernard  de  Jussieu,  the  father  of  the  French  botanists, 
deterred,  by  excess  of  modesty,  from  giving  his  ideas  to 
the  world,  was  the  first  who  laboured  at  a  natural  system 
of  arrangement. 

It  was  not  before  the  year  1759,  when  he  was  called  up- 
on, as  Professor  of  Botany,  to  arrange  the  royal  garden  at 
Trianon,  that  he  ventured  to  give  any  publicity  to  the 
natural  system  he  had  been  projecting.  What  this  was, 
may  be  seen  by  his  nephew  Antony  de  Jussieu's  Genera 
Plantarum,  published  in  1789.  Bernard  de  Jussieu  be- 
came acquainted  with  Linnaeus  at  Paris,  in  1738,  and  was 
quite  aware  of  his  merits,  and  disposed  to  allow  them. 

The  Natural  Orders,  as  arranged  by  A.  de  Jussieu  from 
his  uncle's  works,  are  also  given  in  the  glossary  to  this 
work:  he  has  fifteen  Classes,  and  a  hundred  Orders.  His 
Orders  are  mostly  named  from  some  leading  Genus,  which 
appears  to  me  to  be  a  more  satisfactory  arrangement. 

Natural  Orders  of  plants  are  such  as  are  founded  on 
principles  of  natural  affinity  ;  bringing  together,  under 
one  point  of  view,  such  Genera  as  have  certain  characters 
in  common,  independent  of  all  artificial  modes  of  classi- 
fication. 

In  the  conception  of  his  Orders,  Linnaus  ever  kept  the 
fructification  principally  in  view,  though  the  names  of 
some  few  of  them  allude  to  the  habit. 
There  are  fifty-eight  Natural  Orders  of  Linnaeus. 

NATURAL  ORDERS  OF  LINN^US. 

1.  PalmcE — Palm  Trees. 

2.  Piperitce — Arum  and  its  allies. 

3.  CalamaritB — Grass-leaved  plants,  as  Carex. 


4. 
5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 

13. 
14. 
15. 


Gramina — True  Grasses. 

Tripetaloidea — Juncus,  &c. 

EnsataR — Sword-leaved  plants. 

Orchidea — Orchis  tribe. 

Scitamineae — Amomum,  &c. 

Spathaceae — Narcissus,  Sec. 

Coronaria — Liliaceous  plants. 

Sarmentacece — Convallaria,  &c. 

Holeraceae — Chenopodium,  and  various  anomalous 
genera. 

Succulentae — Succulent  plants. 

Gruinales — Geranium  tribe. 

Inundates — consists  of  Zannichdlia,  Ruppia,  Po- 
tamogeton,  Myriophyllum,  Ceratophyl- 
lum,  Proserpinaca,  Elatine,  and  Hip- 
puris.  To  these  are  added,  in  manu- 
script, by  Linnaeus,  Chara  Naias, 
Aponogeton,  Saururus,  Serpicula,  Calli- 
triche,  Lemna,  and  Pistia — rather  a 
vague  assemblage  altogether. 

CalycifloroB — Osyris,  Trophis,  Hippopha,  and  Elas- 
agnus. 

Calycanthemos — Ejriloliium,  Melastoma,  &c. 

Bicornes — Plants  whose  pollen  is  discharged  by 
two  pores,  or  sometimes  tubes,  as  .Erica, 
Vaccinium,  &c. 

HesperidecB — Myrtle  tribe. 

Rotaceas — Anagallis,  &c. 

Preci<s — Primula,  &,c, 

Caryophyllei — Pink,  Campion,  &c. 

TrihilataR — Maple,  &c. 

Corydales — Fumaria,  &c. 

Putaminea — Capparis,  &c. 

MultisiliqucE — Helleborus,  &c. 

RhcRotdecB — Poppy  tribe. 

Luridee — Night  Shade  tribe. 

Campa.nace(E — Convolvulus,  Campanula,  &c. 

ContortoB — Asclepias,  Apocynum,  &c. 

Vepreculte — Daphne,  and  its  allies. 

Papilionaceos — Pea  kind. 

Lomentacea — Cassia,  Mimosa,  &c. 

CucurbitaceaR — Gourd  family. 


16. 

17. 

18. 


19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 


Note  1.— GAS. 

Gas  is  an  aeriform  fluid,  composed  of  two  parts.  1. 
The  particular  substance  that  is  converted  into  gas,  by 
heat  or  caloric.  2.  The  Caloric,  which,  by  its  chemical 
combination  with  the  basis,  constitutes  a  gas,  or  perma- 
nently elastic  fluid,  capable  of  existing  in  an  aeriform 
state,  under  the  pressure,  and  at  the  temperature  of  the 
atmosphere. 

To  form  a  gas,  or  permanently  elastic  fluid,  a  chemical 


35.  Senticoseec — Rose,  Bramble,  &c. 

36.  PomaceaR — Apple,  Pluin,  <fcc. 

37.  ColumnifertE — Mallow  tribe. 

38.  TricocccB — Euphorbia,  &c. 

39.  SiliquoatE — Cruciform  plants.     This  order  Linnaeus 

indicates  as  having  no  relationship  to 
any  other.  It  constitutes  the  Tetrady- 
namia. 

40.  Pereonatee — Nearly  equivalant    to  the  Didynamia 

Angiospermia. 

41.  AsperifolitB — Myosotis,  Borago,  &c. 

42.  Verticillatce — Answerable  to  the  Didynamia  Gym- 

nospermia,  with  a  few  ringent  Dian- 
drous  genera. 

43.  Dumosce — Rhamnus,    Euonymus,  Ilex,    Vibernum, 

&c. 

44.  Sepiariee — The  Jasmine  tribe. 

45.  Umbellate — Umbelliferous  plants — as  Parsley,  Hem- 

lock, &c. 

46.  Hederacees — Ivy,  and  its  allies,  including  Vitis. 

47.  Stellatea — Galium,  Madder,  &c. 

48.  Aggregates — Compound  flowers,  with   separate  an- 

thers, as  Scabiosa  Protea — with  some 
of  their  supposed  allies. 

49.  Composites — Compound  flowers,  with  combined  an- 

thers, divided  into  capitata,  as  the 
Thistle :  Semiflosculosoi — Dandelion : 
DiscoideoR — Tansy,  Aster,  &c.  Oppo- 
sitifolice — Sun  flower :  Nucamentacees 
— Wormwood  :  Parthenium,  Xanthium, 
&c. 

50.  Amentacea — Willow,  Oak,  &c. 

51.  Conifera — Fir,  Juniper,  &c. 

52.  CoadunateB — Magnolia,  &c. 

53.  Scabridce — Nettle,  Fig,  &c. 

54.  Miscellanea — A  heterogeneous  assemblage,  latterly 

much  diminished. 

55.  Filices — Ferns. 

56.  Musci — Mosses. 

57.  MgtE — Sea  weeds,  Lichens,  &c. 

58.  Fungi — The  Fungus  tribe. 


combination  must  take  place  between  the  caloric  and  the 
substance,  at  the  time  of  its  being  converted  into  a  gase- 
ous state.  This  combination  cannot  be  destroyed,  except 
by  the  aid  of  some  chemical  agent  that  has  a  stronger 
affinity  for  either  of  the  constituents  of  the  gas. 

Vapour  is  an  elastic  fluid,  bearing  a  strong  resemblance 
to  a  gas ;  but  vapour  is  nothing  more  than  the  solution,  or 
mechanical  division,  of  any  substance  whatever  in  caloric. 
Caloric  in  vapour  is  only  latent,  and  not  chemically  com- 


bined  :  its  union  is  so  slight,  as  to  be  separated  by  simply 
lowering  the  temperature. 

Nate  2.— CARBON.   - 

Carbon,  or  Charcoal,  forms  a  considerable  part  of  the 
solid  matter  of  all  organised  bodies;  but  it  is  most  abun- 
dant in  the  vegetable  creation  ;  and  chiefly  obtained  from 
wood,  when  the  oil  and  water  (which  are  the  other  consti- 
tuents of  vegetable  matter)  are  evaporated  ;  the  black  po- 
rous brittle  substance  that  then  remains  is  called  charcoal. 

Charcoal,  or  artificial  carbon,  is  properly  called  an  Oxyd 
of  Carbon.  All  carbon  is  not  black — many  substances 
consisting  chiefly  of  carbon,  are  remarkably  white  ;  cotton, 
for  instance,  is  almost  wholly  carbon.  In  the  diamond 
alone,  carbon  exists  in  its  purest  and  most  perfect  state. 
We  are  ignorant  of  the  means  which  nature  employs  to 
bring  it  to  that  state ;  it  may  probably  be  the  work  of  ages, 
to  purify,  arrange,  and  unite  the  particles  of  carbon  in  the 
form  of  a  diamond. 

Oxygen,  when  in  a  state  of  combination  with  other  sub- 
stances, loses,  in  almost  every  instance,  its  respirable  pro- 
perties, and  when  combined  with  carbon,  is  not  only  unfit 
for  respiration,  but  extremely  deleterious  if  taken  into  the 
lungs.  This  accounts  for  the  unwholesome  fumes  of 
burning  charcoal.  By  the  combustion  of  charcoal,  it 
gradually  combines  witli  the  oxygen  of  the  atmosphere, 
for  which  it  has  a  great  attraction,  and  flies  off  in  a  gase- 
ous state,  called  carbonic  acid  gas,  or  fixed  air. 


This  carbonic  acid  gas  produces  many  unhappy  acci- 
dents at  the  opening  of  cellars,  in  places  where  wine,  cider, 
or  beer  are  suffered  to  ferment.  The  famous  Lake  Aver- 
nus,  in  Italy,  by  modern  Italians  called  Lago  di  Triper- 
gola,  and  which  Virgil  makes  the  entrance  of  hell,  exhal- 
ed so  large  a  quantity  of  carbonic  acid  gas,  that  birds  could 
not  fly  over  it  with  impunity. 

Carbon,  in  a  state  of  gas,  is  also  found  at  the  celebrated 
Grotto  del  Cani,  near  Naples.  History  informs  us  that 
criminals  who  were  made  to  descend  into  the  grotto  were 
immediately  stifled. 

Water  can  absorb  this  gas,  as  is  seen  in  many  of  our 
mineral  waters,  to  which  it  gives  a  slight  acid  taste  ;  and, 
although  prejudicial  to  respiration,  is  is  sometimes  found 
to  be  beneficial  to  the  stomach. 

Note  3.— UMBELLIFEROUS  PLANTS. 

Umbelliferous  plants  (from  the  Latin  umbdla,  and  fero 
to  bear,)  are  those  plants  producing  the  inflorescence  call- 
ed an  umbel.  A  particular  mode  of  flowering,  which  consists 
of  a  number  of  flower-stalks  or  rays,  nearly  equal  in  length, 
spreading  from  a  common  centre,  their  summits  forming 
a  level,  convex,  or  even  globose  surface,  as  in  hemlock ; 
more  rarely  a  concave  one,  as  the  carrot.  It  is  simple  or 
compound  ;  in  the  latter,  each  peduncle  bears  another  lit- 
tle umbel,  umbellet,  or  umbellicle. 

Umbel,  is  sometimes  called  a  rundle,  from  its  roundness. 


A     SKETCH    OF    THE    LIFE    OF    LINN^US. 


It  may  not  be  deemed  out  of  place  to  give  a  brief  sketch 
of  the  life  of  the  illustrious  author  of  systematized  botany, 
which  has  been  so  nearly  perfected  by  his  indefatigable 
labours. 

CHARLES  LINN^US  (afterwards  Von  Linns')  was  born  at 
Rashult,  in  Sweden,  in  1707.  He  father,  Nicholas  Lin- 
neeus,  was  minister  of  the  parish  of  Stenbrohult,  to  which 
the  hamlet  of  Rashult  belongs.  His  was  a  great  admirer 
of  the  vegetable  productions  of  Nature,  and  adorned  the 
environs  of  his  rural  mansion  with  the  native  plants  of 
the  neighbouring  fields.  Young  Linnceus  caught  his 
parent's  enthusiasm,  and  early  imbibed  the  same  taste, 
with  such  warmth,  that  he  was  never  able  to  bend  his 
mind,  with  any  great  success,  to  other  pursuits.  He  re- 
lates of  himself,  that,  when  yet  scarcely  four  years  old,  he 
heard  his  father  descant,  to  a  rural  party,  on  the  distinc- 
tive qualities  of  some  particular  plants,  culled  from  the 
flowery  bank  on  which  they  were  seated,  and  that  this 
first  botanical  lecture  was  ever  after  remembered  as  an 
epoch  in  his  scientific  life. 

His  father  designed  him  for  the  church ;  but  he  had  no 
particular  relish  for  the  profession,  or  its  preparatory  stu- 
dies, being  a  very  inapt  scholar  in  the  study  of  languages, 


either  ancient  or  modern.  In  his  diary,  written  in  later 
years,  he  confesses  a  peculiar  inaptitude,  and  rather  a 
blameable  indifference,  for  the  learning  of  languages  :  de- 
claring, that  in  all  his  travels,  he  learned  "  neither  Eng- 
lish, French,  German,  Laplandish,  nor  even  Dutch,  though 
he  stayed  in  Holland  three  whole  years.  Nevertheless, 
he  found  his  way  every  where  well  and  happily." 

At  the  age  of  nineteen,  his  tutors,  like  the  sapient  in- 
structors of  Newton  at  Cambridge,  gave  him  up  as  a 
hopeless  dunce ;  advising  that  he  should  be  apprenticed  to 
some  mechanical  trade.  Fortunately  for  him,  and  for  the 
world,  one  of  the  lecturers  on  Natural  Philosophy,  Dr. 
Rothmann,  having  observed  his  passion  for  the  study  of 
Nature,  and  his  practical  observation,  recommended  to 
his  disappointed  parent  to  turn  his  attention  to  the  study 
of  medicine ;  which  advice  was  adopted,  and  he,  after- 
wards, became  a  practising  physician  of  some  eminence. 
The  amiable  professor  who  had  thus  interested  himself  for 
him,  gave  him  private  instruction  in  physiology.  He  first 
suggested  to  Linnaeus  the  true  principles  upon  which 
botany  ought  to  be  studied — founded  on  the  parts  of  fruc- 
tification, and  put  the  system  of  Tournefort  into  his  hands, 
whose  orders  are  distinguished  by  the  fruit.  Its  very  im- 


perfections  proved  useful,  in  prompting  him  to  attempt 
something  more  complete  thereafter. 

From  that  time,  Linnaeus  devoted  all  his  leisure  to  his 
favourite  study.  In  early  life  he  had  to  struggle  with 
many  difficulties ;  being  so  poor,  as  frequently  to  depend 
upon  chance  for  a  meal ;  and  without  the  means  of  paying 
for  a  patch  upon  his  shoes,  which  he  sometimes  endea- 
voured to  repair  himself,  by  the  aid  of  folded  paper.  But 
merit  and  industry  will  always  find  their  reward,  arid  rise 
proudly  superior  to  all  impediments.  The  lustre  of  his 
abilities  soon  drew  the  attention  of  some  of  the  most 
learned  men  in  Europe,  who  encouraged  and  patronized 
him.  He  was,  after  a  time,  elected  a  member  of  various 
scientific  academies  throughout  Europe ;  and,  in  his  own 
country,  made  Secretary  of  the  Upsal  Academy,  the  only 
one  then  in  Sweden ;  besides  many  other  distinguished 
marks  of  the  high  estimation  in  which  he  was  held  in  his 
native  country,  and  in  the  literary  world. 

His  studies  were  not  wholly  confined  to  botany,  but  ex- 
tended to  other  branches  of  natural  history,  as  may  be 
seen  by  the  publication  of  his  many  scientific  and  varied 
works. 

In  the  spring  of  1732,  he  received  from  the  Academy 
of  Sciences  at  Upsal,  an  appointment  to  travel  through 
Lapland,  under  the  royal  authority,  and  at  the  expense  of 
the  Academy.  He  was  but  slenderly  provided  with  bag- 
gage, travelled  generally  on  horseback,  but  visited  the 
Lapland  Alps  on  foot — descending  to  the  coast  of  Norway, 
he  returned  by  Tornea,  &c.  to  Upsal,  by  the  10th  of  Octo- 
ber, having  performed  a  journey  of  near  4000  English 
miles. 

When  in  Lapland,  he  gathered  at  Lyksele,  May  29th, 
1732,  an  elegant  and  singular  little  plant,  formerly  known 
to  botanists  as  the  Campanula  Serpyllifolia.  Linnaeus,  by 
his  study  of  vegetables  on  the  only  certain  principles,  the 
structure  of  their  parts  of  fructification,  soon  found  this 
to  constitute  a  new  genus  ;  but  he  reserved  the  idea  in  his 
own  breast,  till  such  time  as  his  discoveries  and  publica- 
tions had  entitled  him  to  botanical  commemoration :  and 
his  friend  Gronovius,  in  due  time,  undertook  to  make  this 
genus  known  to  the  world  under  the  name  of  Linn&a — 
it  having  been  chosen  by  himself  for  this  purpose. 

In  the  course  of  his  tour  having  learned  the  art  of  as- 
saying metals,  he  in  the  following  year  gave  a  private 
course  of  lectures  on  this  subject,  which  had  never  before 
been  taught  at  Upsal. 

The  arts  of  his  rival  Rosen  having  disappointed  him  of 
his  anticipated  medical  advancement  in  the  college  at 
Lund,  and,  by  his  intrigues,  put  a  stop  to  all  private  medi- 
cal lectures  in  the  university  of  Upsal,  thus  depriving 
Linnaeus  of  his  only  present  means  of  subsistence,  our  in- 
defatigable naturalist  directed  his  energies  into  another 
channel ;  in  furtherance  of  his  study  of  mineralogy,  he 
visited  the  mines  of  Sweden,  and,  at  the  close  of  the  year 


1733,  he  gave  a  course  of  lectures  at  Fahlun,  on  the  art  of 
assaying.  Here  he  first  became  acquainted  with  Browal- 
lius  (chaplain  to  the  governor  of  the  province  of  Dalecarlia, 
afterwards  bishop  of  Abo)  who  advised  him  to  take  his 
doctor's  degrees,  in  order  to  pursue  the  practice  of  medi- 
cine, in  which  he  had  already  acquired  some  celebrity 
while  at  Fahlun. 

In  pursuance  of  this  advice,  Linnaeus,  having  amassed 
the  sum  of  fifteen  pounds  sterling,  now  commenced  his 
travels,  with  a  view  of  obtaining  his  degree  at  the  cheap- 
est university  he  could  find,  and,  at  the  same  time,  seeing 
something  more  of  the  literary  world.  He  spent  five  years 
in  visiting  the  principal  countries  of  Europe ;  his  merit 
raised  him  up  patrons  and  friends  wherever  he  was 
known  ;  through  many  difficulties,  it  is  true,  did  he  have 
to  work  his  way,  but  still  he  went  onward,  supported  by 
the  native  energy  of  his  character,  gaining  information  at 
every  step,  and  extending  his  own  fame.  He  tells  us 
himself,  he  would  perhaps  never  have  returned  to  his  own 
country,  "  had  he  not  been  in  love ;"  but  hearing  that  he 
had  a  powerful  rival  in  the  affections  of  her  to  whom  he 
had  plighted  his  faith,  he  suddenly  returned  to  Sweden, 
and,  after  a  time,  having  acquired  such  a  degree  of  pros- 
perity as  to  induce  the  father  of  his  betrothed  to  consent 
to  their  union,  he  was  married  June  26,  1739. 

How  distant  oft  the  thing  we  dote  on  most, 
From  that  for  which  we  Aole,  felicity! 

This  consummation  of  his  ardent  aspirations  for  the  last 
five  years  of  his  life,  brought  with  it  no  access  either  of 
happiness  or  prosperity.  This  idol  of  his  heart,  is  repre- 
sented as  altogether  unworthy;  and  of  a  kindred  spirit 
with  the  unnatural  mother  of  the. unfortunate  poet  Savage, 
displaying  the  same  hatred  of  her  only  son,  and  persecut- 
ing him  by  every  means  within  her  power,  during  the  life 
of  her  husband,  who  was  made  miserable  by  her  miscon- 
duct and  petty  tyranny,  and,  after  his  death,  still  pouring 
out  the  dregs  of  her  wrath  upon  the  admirable  and  sen- 
sitive being  who  naturally  looked  to  her  for  support  and 
comfort. 

But  let  us  turn  from  so  disgusting  and  painful  a  theme, 
to  bestow  a  double  portion  of  admiration  upon  that  being, 
who,  amidst  all  these  chilling  blights  to  his  happiness,  still 
laboured  with  untiring  zeal  in  the  cause  of  literature. 

About  the  year  1751,  the  queen  of  Sweden,  Louisa  Ulri- 
ca, sister  to  the  great  Frederic  of  Prussia,  having  a  taste 
for  natural  history,  which  her  royal  consort,  king  Adol- 
phus  Frederick,  also  patronized,  showed  much  favour  to 
Linnteus,  and  employed  him  in  arranging  her  collection  of 
insects  and  shells,  at  her  country-palace  of  Drotningholm, 
or  Ulricksdahl,  and  he  was  frequently  honoured  with  the 
company  and  conversation  of  their  majesties,  during  his 
attendance  there.  The  queen  also  interested  herself  in  the 
education  of  her  son,  and  was  altogether  gracious  and 


obliging  in  all  that  concerned  him,  promoting  his  wishes 
and  his  interest,  whenever  opportunity  offered.  She  took 
so  much  pleasure  in  the  conversation  of  her  distinguished 
naturalist,  that  she  allowed  him  his  habitual  indulgence 
of  smoking,  even  in  her  royal  apartments,  that  he  might 
continue  his  labours  with  the  more  satisfaction  to  himself. 
Nor  were  his  services  accepted  without  suitable  returns 
of  royal  munificence. 

In  1753,  he  received,  from  the  hand  of  his  sovereign, 
the  order  of  the  Polar  Star ;  an  honour  which  had  never 
before  been  conferred  for  literary  merit.  A  still  more 
remarkable,  if  not  more  grateful  compliment,  was  paid 
him,  not  long  after,  by  the  king  of  Spain;  who  invit- 
ed him  to  settle  at  Madrid,  with  the  offer  of  nobility,  the 
free  exercise  of  his  religion,  and  a  splendid  botanical  ap- 
pointment. This  was  handsomely  declined  by  Linnaeus, 
who  declared,  that  if  he  had  any  merits,  they  were  due  to 
his  own  country.  This  patriotic  moderation  received  its 
just  reward  in  November,  1756,  when  he  was  raised 
to  the  rank  of  Swedish  nobility,  and  look  the  name  of 
Von  Linne. 

As  the  habits  of  Linnseus  were  temperate  and  regular, 
he  retained  his  health  and  vigour  in  tolerable  perfection, 
notwithstanding  the  immense  labours  of  his  mind,  till  be- 
yond his  sixtieth  year;  when  his  memory  began,  in  some 
degree,  to  fail  him.  In  1774,  at  the  age  of  sixty-seven,  an 
attack  of  apoplexy  greatly  impaired  his  constitution.  Two 
years  afterwards,  he  had  a  second  attack,  which  rendered 
him  paralytic  on  the  right  side,  and  materially  affected 
his  faculties.  He  died  of  a  different  complaint,  in  1778, 


aged  seventy-one.  His  sovereign,  Gustavus  III.  com- 
manded a  medal  to  be  struck,  expressive  of  the  public  loss 
his  country  had  sustained  in  him ;  and  honoured  the 
Academy  of  Science,  at  Stockholm,  with  his  presence, 
when  the  eulogy  of  this  ornament  to  his  country  was  pro- 
nounced there  by  his  intimate  friend  Black.  A  still  higher 
compliment  was  paid  to  his  memory  by  the  king,  in  a 
speech  from  the  throne,  in  which  he  did  justice  to  the 
splendid  talents  and  acquirements  of  his  illustrious  subject, 
and  testified  his  royal  sympathy  with  the  sorrow  of  a 
whole  nation,  in  their  irreparable  loss.  Nor  was  this  sor- 
row limited  to  the  narrow  bounds  of  his  native  soil :  the 
whole  literary  world,  with  whom  he  had  become  inti- 
mately connected,  and  to  whom  he  was  endeared,  felt  the 
shock  of  such  a  bereavement.  Eulogies  were  pronounced 
in  the  several  scientific  institutions  of  which  he  was  a 
member.  In  his  own  country,  there  was  a  general  mourn- 
ing proclaimed  at  Upsal — his  remains  were  deposited  in  a 
vault  near  the  west  end  of  the  cathedral  of  the  university, 
where  a  monument  of  Swedish  porphyry  was  erected  by 
his  pupils.  His  obsequies  were  performed  in  the  most 
respectful  manner,  by  the  whole  university,  the  pall  being 
supported  by  sixteen  doctors  of  physic,  all  of  whom  had 
been  his  pupils. 

Five  years  after  this,  the  remains  of  his  only  son  (then 
in  his  forty-second  year,  successor  to  his  father  in  his 
botanical  professorship,  which  he  supported  with  ability) 
were  laid  by  the  side  of  the  parent ;  the  family  coat  of 
arms  broken  over  them,  and  their  mingled  ashes  strewed 
with  flowers. 


RETURN,   SICILIAN   MUSE, 

AND   CALL   THE   VALES,    AND   BID   THEM    HITHER   CAST 
THEIR   BELLS,   AND   FLOWERS   OF    A    THOUSAND   HUES. 


Milton's  Lycidas. 


FROM   FLOWERS   WHICH    WE   TWINE   FOR   THE   TEMPLE   OF   LOVE, 
LOVE   ITSELF    MAY    INSTRUCTION   RECEIVE. 

Ji  H.  Payne. 


COME,    MAKE    UP   A    NOSEGAY 

FOR    HER    WHOSE   LOVE    YOU    PRIZE, 

CHOOSE   WHAT    YOU   WILL}    HERE   ARE   ENOUGH, 

WILD   BLOOMS,    AND    GARDEN   FLOWERS. 


Anonymous. 


FROM    GIANT   OAKS,   THAT   WAVE   THEIR    BRANCHES   DARK, 
TO   THE   DWARF   MOSS,   THAT   CLINGS   UPON   THEIR    BARK. 

Darwin. 


OH  !  WHAT   TENDER   THOUGHTS   BENEATH 
THOSE   SILENT   FLOWERS   ARE    LYING, 
HID    WITHIN    THE   MYSTIC  'WREATH 
MY    LOVE   HATH    KISs'o    IN   TYING. 


Moore. 


ACACIA,  Rose. 

Robinia  hispida. 


Friendship. 


If  I  do  vow  a  friendship,  I  '11  perform  it. 


Shaks. 


Angels  from  friendship  gather  half  their  joy. 
Heaven  gives  us  friends  to  bless  the  present  scene. 

Young. 

Friendship  !  thou  soft  propitious  pow'r  ! 
t  Sweet  regent  of  the  social  hour ! 
Sublime  thy  joys,  nor  understood, 
But  by  the  virtuous  and  the  good !      .     .     .     .     Cotton. 


Nor  hope  to  find 

A  friend,  but  what  has  found  a  friend  in  thee. 
All  like  the  purchase,  few  the  price  will  pay ; 
And  this  makes  friends  such  miracles  below.        Young. 


ACACIA. 


(Continued.) 


The  friends  thou  hast,  and  their  adoption  try'd, 
Grapple  them  to  thy  soul  with  hooks  of  steel.         Shaks. 

Old  friends,  like  old  swords,  are  trusted  best.     Webster. 
Be  good  and  friendly  still,  and  oft  return.    .     .     Milton. 


ACACIA,  White. 
R.  Pseudo  acacia. 
Common  Locust  Tree. 


Elegance. 


Trifles  themselves  are  elegant  in  him. 


Pope. 


To  these  resistless  grace  impart, 

That  look  of  sweetness  fbrm'd  to  please, 

That  elegance  devoid  of  art, 

That  dignity  that 's  lost  in  ease.  .     .     .     Cartwright. 


So  soft,  so  elegant,  so  fair, 

Sure  something  more  than  human 's  there. 


Smollet. 


ACACIA,  Yellow. 


Concealed   love.  Hard  is  the  fate  of  him  who  loves, 

Yet  dares  not  tell  his  trembling  pain.    .     .       Thomson. 

Much  he  laboured  to  conceal 
That  gentle  passion  of  the  breast, 
Which  all  can  feign,  but  few  can  feel. 

Ingenuous  fears  suppress'd  the  flame, 
Yet  still  he  own'd  its  hidden  power, 

With  transport  dwelling  on  her  name, 

He  sooth'd  the  solitary  hour.        .     .     .     Cartwrighl. 

How  long  must  I  conceal, 
What  yet  my  heart  could  wish  were  known  ? 
How  long  the  truest  passion  feel, 


And  yet  that  passion  fear  to  own  ? 


Carlwright. 


Fire,  that 's  closest  kept,  burns  most  of  all.     .     .  Shaks. 

Nor  less  was  she  in  heart  affected, 
But  that  she  masked  it  with  modesty, 
For  fear  she  should  of  lightness  be  detected. 

Spencer's  Faery  Queen. 

She  felt  his  flame ;  but  deep  within  her  breast, 

In  bashful  coyness,  or  in  maiden  pride, 

The  soft  return  conceal'd  ;  save  when  it  stole 

In  sidelong  glances  from  her  down-cast  eye, 

Or  from  her  swelling  soul  in  stifled  sighs.  Thomson. 

She  long'd  her  hidden  passion  to  reveal, 
And  tell  her  pains,  but  had  not  words  to  tell : 
She  can't  begin,  but  waits  for  the  rebound, 
To  catch  his  voice,  and  to  return  the  sound. 

Addisorfs  Ovid. 


ADONIS,  Flos. 
Adonis  autumn  alls. 

Pheasant's  eye ;  or, 
Red  morocco. 


Sorrowful    remem-       Oh  !   never  yet  hath  love  successfully  with 

brances.  memory  strove.  L.  E.  L. 

Of  all  afflictions  taught  a  lover  yet, 

'Tis  sure  the  hardest  science  to  forget !     .     .     .     Pope. 

Dost  thou  deem 

It  such  an  easy  task  from  the  fond  breast 
To  root  affection  out  ? Southey. 

Unequal  task  !  a  passion  to  resign, 

For  hearts  so  touch'd,  so  pierc'd,  so  lost  as  mine.   Pope. 

Oh  !  to  forget  her  ! — but  how  vain  each  art, 

Whilst  every  virtue  lives  imprinted  on  my  heart.  Shaw. 

Too  faithful  memory — cease — oh  cease — 

How  shall  I  e'er  regain  my  peace !      ....     Shaw. 

There 's  not  a  garden  walk  I  tread, 

There  's  not  a  flower  I  see, 
But  brings  to  mind  some  hope  that 's  fled, 

Some  joy  I  've  lost  with  thee Song. 


ALMOND.     Dwarf. 
Amygdalus  pumila. 


Hope  !  thou  sad  lover's  only  friend !        ...     Cowley. 

Transmit  one  pitying  ray — to  lighten  and  to  cheer  ! 

Young. 

Return,  fair  Hope,  thy  seat  resume, 

Dispel  this  melancholy  gloom, 

And  to  my  soul  thy  gladsome  light  impart. 

jEschylus'  Agamemnon. 

Come,  gentle  Hope  !  with  one  gay  smile  remove 

The  lasting  sadness  of  an  aching  heart : 

Thy  voice,  benign  enchantress  !  let  me  hear.   Williams. 

Answer. 

The  hope  in  dreams  of  a  happier  hour, 

That  alights  on  misery's  brow, 
Springs  out  of  the  silvery  almond  flower, 

That  blooms  on  a  leafless  bough Moore. 


ALTH^A.    Frutex. 

Hibiscus  Syriacus. 
Syrian  Mallow. 


Consumed  by  love. 


My  heart 's  on  flame,  and  does  like  fire 
To  her  aspire.  ...... 


Cowley. 


His  love  was  passion's  essence — as  a  tree 
On  fire  by  lightning  :  with  ethereal  flame 
Kindled  he  was Byron. 


ALTHAEA. 

(Continued.) 


Love  was  to  his  impassion'd  soul, 

Not,  as  with  others,  a  mere  part 
Of  his  existence,  but  the  whole, 

The  very  life-breath  of  his  heart Moore. 

What  must  love  be  in  a  heart 
All  passion's  fiery  depths  concealing, 

Which  has  in  its  minutest  part 
More  than  another's  whole  of  feeling  ?      .     .    L.  E.  L. 


Answer. 
Violent  fires  soon  burn  out  themselves. 


.     .     Shaks. 


The  more  thou  dam'st  it  up,  the  more  it  burns ; 
The  current,  that  with  gentle  murmur  glides, 
Thou  know'st,  being  stopp'd,  impatiently  doth  rage  ; 
But  when  his  fair  course  is  not  hindered, 
He  makes  sweet  music  with  th'  enamell'd  stones. 

Shaks. 

Those  edges  soonest  turn  that  are  most  keen, 

A  sober  moderation  stands  sure, 

No  violent  extremes  endure Alleyn. 


ALOE. 
Aloe. 


Religious  superstition. 


In  climes  beneath  the  solar  ray, 

Where  beams  intolerable  day, 

And  arid  plains  in  silence  spread, 

The  pale-green  Aloe  lifts  its  head, 

Delighting  most  its  shade  to  fling 

Where  streams  run  not,  nor  fountains  spring. 

Its  mystic  branch,  at  Moslem's  door, 

Betokens  travel  long  and  sore 

In  Mecca's  weary  pilgrimage  ; 
Or  hangs  a  visionary  charm 
To  shield  him  from  the  secret  harm, 

The  spectre's  form,  the  demon's  rage. 

In  frames  adust,  in  fervid  minds, 
Its  root  thus  superstition  finds, 
Where'er  that  noxious  growth  is  found, 
There  spreads  a  moral  desert  round, 
Where  charity's  sweet  fount  is  dried, 
And  only  bitter  waters  glide. 
Oh  !  never  may  its  gloomy  shade 
Darken  my  gate,  my  breast  invade, 

Proclaiming  that  the  thorny  path 
Of  useless  rigours  I  have  trod, 
With  offered  pangs  to  please  a  God 

Not  of  compassion,  but  of  wrath. 


ALOE. 


(Continued.) 


Against  the  demon  passion's  strife, 
The  phantom  fears  which  shadow  life, 
Virtue  a  better  spell  supply! 
And  trust  in  that  Benignant  Eye 
Which  wills  not,  in  all  earth's  wide  sphere, 
One  idle  pang,  one  needless  tear.    .     .     . 


C***e. 


AMARANTH.  Immortality. 

Amaranthus. 


His  love  was  an  eternal  plant,  whereof 
The  root  was  fix'd  in  virtue's  ground. 

They  sin  who  tell  us  love  can  die, 
With  life  all  other  passions  fly, 

All  others  are  but  vanity. 
In  heaven  ambition  cannot  dwell, 
Nor  avarice  in  the  vaults  of  hell ; 
Earthly  these  passions  of  the  earth, 
They  perish  where  they  have  their  birth 

But  love  is  indestructible.   . 


Shaks. 


Anon. 


The  lily's  hue,  the  rose's  dye, 
The  kindling  lustre  of  an  eye ; 
Who  but  owns  their  magic  sway  ! 
Who  but  knows  they  all  decay  ! 

The  tender  thrill,  the  pitying  tear, 
The  generous  purpose,  nobly  dear, 
The  gentle  look,  that  rage  disarms — 
These  are  all  immortal  charms. 


Burns. 


AMARANTH.     Globe.          Unchangeable. 
Gomphrena  globosa. 


Here  still  is  the  smile  that  no  cloud  can  o'ercast, 
And  the  heart,  and  the  hand,  all  thy  own  to  the  last. 

Moore. 

For  ever  thine,  whate'er  this  world  betide, 

In  youth,  in  age,  thine  own,  forever  thine.  A.  A.  Watts. 


The  very  thoughts  of  change  I  hate. 

As  much  as  of  despair ; 
Nor  ever  covet  to  be  great, 

Unless  it  be  for  her 


Parnell. 


No  change  in  love  the  seasons  bring, 
Love  only  knows  perpetual  spring, 

Time  destroying  far  and  wide, 

Love  from  the  soul  can  ne'er  divide. 
Love  will  the  universe  control 
When  dying  seasons  cease  to  roll.   . 


Unalterably  firm  his  love  entire. 


Booth. 

Milton. 


AMARYLLIS.  Splendid  beauty.  Beauty,  too  rich  for  use,  for  earth  too  dear.      .     Shake. 

A.  Formosissima.  A  shape  of  beauty  that  bewitched  mine  eye.      .     .    ^. 

Her  glossy  hair  was  clustered  o'er  her  brow, 
Bright  with  intelligence,  and  fair  and  smooth : 

Her  eye-brow's  shape  was  like  the  aerial  bow. 
Her  cheek  all  purple  with  the  beam  of  youth, 

Mounting  at  times,  to  a  transparent  glow, 
As  if  her  veins  ran  lightning Byron. 

Fair  lovely  lady,  bright  and  crystalline ! 
As  glorious  as  the  morning  wash'd  with  dew, 
Within  whose  eyes  she  takes  her  dawning  beams — 
And  golden  summer  sleeps  upon  thy  cheeks ; 
Wrap  up  thy  radiations  in  some  cloud, 
Lest  that  thy  beauty  make  this  stately  town 
Unhabitable  as  the  burning  zone, 
With  sweet  reflections  of  thy  lovely  face.     .     .     S/taks. 


AMBROSIA. 
Ambrosia. 


Love  returned.  She  was  beloved — she  loved Shaks. 

Soft  eyes  look'd  love,  to  eyes  which  spoke  again.    Byron. 

Love  has  a  fleeter  messenger  than  speech, 

To  tell  love's  meaning.    His  express  post 

Upon  the  orbs  of  vision,  ere  the  tongue 

Can  shape  them  into  words G.  Colman,jr. 

Theirs  was  love  in  which  the  mind  delights 

To  lose  itself. Byron. 

The  all-absorbing  flame 
Which,  kindled  by  another,  grows  the  same, 
Wrapt  in  one  blaze Byron. 


Answer. 
What  sweet  delirium  o'er  his  bosom  stole  ! 


Beatlie. 


I  am  lost  in  ecstasy  ! — Dost  thou  love, 

Thou  charming  maid  ? 
This  is  life  indeed !     Life  worth  preserving. 
Such  life  as  "  I  have"  never  felt  till  now. 
My  joy,  my  best  belov'd,  my  only  wish ! 
How  shall  I  speak  the  transport  of  my  soul !      Addison. 

My  soul,  my  life, 
Seem'd  all  too  little  for  your  happiness.    .     .    L.  E.  L. 

Oh! 'tis  a  heaven  worth  dying  for!     ....     Watts. 


AMER.  STAR  WORT. 

Michaelmas  Daisy. 
Aster  tradescanti. 


Cheerfulness  in 
old  age. 


Though  time  thy  bloom  is  stealing, 
There  's  still  beyond  his  art, 

The  wild-flower  wreath  of  feeling, 
The  sunbeam  of  the  heart.   .     . 


Halleck. 


Virtue  gives  pleasure  an  eternal  reign.   .     .     .     Young. 

Virtue  can  brook  the  thoughts  of  age, 

That  lasts  the  same  through  every  stage.        .     .     Gay. 

What  nothing  earthly  gives,  or  can  destroy, 

The  soul's  calm  sunshine,  and  the  heart-felt  joy, 

Is  virtue's  prize Pope. 


ANEMONE. 

Zephyr's  Flower. 
Anemone  vernalis. 


Expectation.  For  him  she  breathes  the  silent  sigh  forlorn, 

Each  setting  day — for  him,  each  rising  morn.    Darwin. 


He  used  to  come,  in  happier  hours, 
Upon  my  gift  of  token  flowers.    .     . 


.     .     C.  G. 


He  comes  not — sends  not — faithless  one  ! 

It  is  no  dream — and  I  am  desolate  !    .     .     .     .     Byron. 


That  breathless,  agoniz'd  suspense 

From  whose  hot  throbs,  whose  deadly  aching 

The  heart  hath  no  relief  but  breaking !    .     . 


Moore. 


ARBOR  VITJE. 

Thuja. 


for  me.                 With  heart  never  changing,  and  brow  never  cold.  Moore. 
I  live  in  pleasure,  when  1  live  to  thee D. 


Unless  I  look  on  Sylvia  in  the  day, 
There  is  no  day  for  me  to  look  upon. 
She  is  my  essence :  and  I  leave  to  be, 
If  I  be  not  by  her  fair  influence 
Foster'd,  illumin'd,  cherish'd,  kept  alive. 


Gladly  I 
With  thee  would  live,  with  thee  would  die. 


Shaks. 


Horace. , 


Answer. 

Elvira  blush'd  the  warm  reply, 
(To  love  a  language  not  unknown,) 
The  milder  glories  fill'd  her  eye, 
And  there  a  softer  lustre  shone. 


Cartwright. 


AURICULA,  Scarlet.  AtttYVtC.  Avarice,  whatever  shape  it  bears, 

Must  still  be  coupled  with  its  cares Gay. 

Primula  auricula. 

Can  gold  calm  passion,  or  make  reason  shine  ? 

Can  we  dig  peace,  or  wisdom,  from  the  mine  ? 

Wisdom  to  gold  prefer ;  for  'tis  much  less 

To  make  our  fortune,  than  our  happiness.  .     .     Young. 

What  ever  fortune  lavishly  can  pour, 
The  mind  annihilates,  and  asks  for  more. 
Wealth  is  a  cheat ;  believe  not  what  it  says  : 
Like  every  lord,  it  promises — and  pays. 

*  *  *  * 

The  poor  are  only  poor, 
But  what  are  they  who  droop  amid  their  store  1   Young. 

Gold  hath  no  lustre  of  its  own, 

It  shines  by  temperate  use  alone Horace. 

Why  lose  we  life  in  anxious  cares, 

To  lay  up  hoards  for  future  years  ?  .     .     .     .     .     Gay. 


BACHELOR'S  BUTTON.    /  with  the  morning's  When  T  said  l  would  die  a  bachelor,  I  did  not  think 

love  have  oft  made    I  should  I  live  till  I  were  married Shake. 

Lychnis  dioica.  sport. 

Love's  a  mighty  lord ; 

And  hath  so  humbled  me,  as  I  confess 

There  is  no  woe  to  his  correction, 

Nor,  to  his  service,  no  such  joy  on  earth ! 

Now,  no  discourse,  except  it  be  of  love — 
Now  can  I  break  my  fast,  dine,  sup,  and  sleep, 
Upon  the  very  naked  name  of  love ShaJcs. 

Your  beauty  was  the  cause  of  that  effect : 

Your  beauty  which  did  haunt  me  in  my  sleep.        same. 

Your  virtues,  graced  with  external  gifts, 

Kindle  love's  settled  passion  in  my  heart.      .     .    same. 

Ever  till  now 
When  men  were  fond,  I  smil'd  and  wonder'd  how.  same. 

Now  1  am 
"As  true  a  lover  as  ever  sigh'd  on  midnight  pillow."  same. 

Never  man  sigh'd  truer  breath same. 

Answer. 

Flora's  choice  buttons  of  a  russet  die, 

Is  hope — even  in  the  depths  of  misery.  .     .    .    Brown. 


BALM. 

Melissa  officinalis. 


Sympathy.  A  world  of  earthly  blessings  to  my  soul 

If  sympathy  of  love  unite  our  thoughts.    .     .     .    Shaks. 

Love's  soft  sympathy  imparts 
That  tender  transport  of  delight 
That  beats  in  undivided  hearts.        .     .     .     Cartwright. 

What  my  tongue  dares  not,  that  my  heart  shall  say. 

Shaks. 


BALSAM,  Red. 

Touch  me  not. 
Impatiens. 


Impatient  resolves. 


Let  me  this  fondness  from  my  bosom  tear, 
Let  me  forget  that  e'er  I  thought  her  fair : 
Come,  cool  indifference,  and  heal  my  breast, 
Wearied  at  length,  I  seek  thy  downy  rest : 
No  turbulence  of  passion  shall  destroy 
My  future  ease  with  flattering  hopes  of  joy.     Lyttleton. 

No  more  my  eyes  shall  view  her  fatal  charms. 

*  *  *  * 

Not  all  her  arts  my  steady  soul  shall  move, 

And  she  shall  find  that  reason  conquers  love.     .     same. 

I  '11  not  be  made  a  soft  and  dull  ey'd  fool, 

To  shake  the  head,  relent,  and  sigh,  and  yield.      Shaks. 

Yield  up,  O  love!  thy  crown,  and  hearted  throne, 
To  tyrannous  hate !  swell,  bosom !  with  thy  fraught, 
For  'tis  of  aspic's  tongue  si      .......    same. 

I  am  Misanthropes,  and  hate  mankind.     .    .    .    same. 


BALSAM.     Yellow. 
Noli  me  tangere. 
Impatiens. 


Impatience.  Impatience  waiteth  on  true  sorrow.     ....     Shaks. 

Who  in  patience  parts  with  all  delight.  .     .     .     Byron. 
They  can  be  meek,  that  have  no  other  cause.       Shaks. 

Was  she  not  all  my  fondest  wish  could  frame  ? 

Did  ever  mind  so  much  of  heaven  partake  ?       .    Shaw. 

Ah  !  what  avail  my  love  and  truth  ? 

She  listens  to  no  lowly  swain  ; 
Her  charms  must  bless  some  happier  youth, 

Some  youth  of  Fortune's  titled  train. 

Yet,  will  the  youth,  whoe'er  he  be, 

In  truth  or  tenderness  excel  ? 
Or  will  he  on  thy  charms  like  me, 

With  fondness  never-dying  dwell  ? 


•*- 


BALSAM. 


(Continued.) 


What  though  his  boastful  heart  be  vain 
Of  all  that  birth  or  fortune  gave, 

Yet  is  not  mine,  though  rude  and  plain, 
At  least  as  noble  and  as  brave  ? 


Cartwright. 


BASIL.      Sweet.  Good  wishes.  Joy  and  fresh  days  of  love  accompany  your  hearts.  S/iaks. 

Ocimum.  I  'd  have  each  hour,  each  minute  of  thy  life 

A  golden  holyday ;  and  should  a  cloud 
O'ercast  thee,  be  it  light  as  gossamer, 
That  Helen  might  disperse  it  with  a  breath, 
And  talk  thee  into  sunshine Geo.  Coleman. 

Peace  be  around  thee,  wherever  thou  roamest, 
May  life  be  to  thee  a  summer's  day ; 

And  all  that  thou  wishest,  and  all  that  thou  lovest, 
Come  smiling  around  thy  sunny  way — 

As  half  in  shade,  and  half  in  sun, 
This  world  along  its  path  advances, 

May  that  side  the  sun  's  upon, 
Be  all  that  e'er  shall  meet  thy  glances. 

May  Time,  that  sheds  its  blight  on  all, 
And  daily  dooms  some  joy  to  death, 

O'er  thee  let  years  so  gently  fall, 
They  shall  not  crush  one  flower  beneath.     , 


O'er  the  sea, 
Fain  would  I  waft  such  blessings  upon  thee. 


Moore. 


Byron. 


So  fare  thee  well, — and  may  th'  indulgent  gods 
*       *       *        grant  thee  every  wish 
Thy  soul  can  form  !  Once  more  farewell ! 

Sophocles'  Philocletes. 


BAY  LEAF. 

Laurus. 


I  change  but  in  dying. 


fao — let  the  Eagle  change  his  plume, 
The  leaf  its  hue,  the  flower  its  bloom; 
But  ties  around  this  heart  were  spun, 
That  could  not,  would  not  be  undone.  .  .  Campbell. 

Changeless  as  the  greenest  leaves 

Of  the  wreath  the  cypress  weaves.       .     .     .     L.  E.  L. 

Change  as  ye  list,  ye  winds,  my  heart  shall  be 

The  faithful  compass  that  still  points  to  thee.     .     Gay. 

How  dear  the  dream  in  darkest  hour  of  ill, 

Should  all  be  changed,  to  find  thee  faithful  still ! 

Be  but  thy  soul  like  Selim's  firmly  shown; 

To  thee  be  Selim's  tender  as  thy  own. 

To  soothe  each  sorrow,  share  in  each  delight, 

Blend  every  thought,  do  all — but  disunite.        .     Byron. 


BAY  WREATH.  The  reward  of  merit.      O,  your  desert  speaks  loud  ;  and  I  should  wrong  it, 

To  lock  it  in  the  wards  of  covert  bosom, 
Laurus  nobilis.  When  it  deserves  with  characters  of  brass 

A  forted  residence,  'gainst  the  tooth  of  time, 

And  razures  of  oblivion  .........     Shaks. 

The  fame  that  a  man  wins  himself,  is  best  ; 
That,  he  may  call  his  own  ;         *         * 

***** 

So  man's  true  fame  must  strike  from  his  own  deeds. 

Middleton. 

How  vain  are  all  hereditary  honours, 

Those  poor  possessions  from  another's  deeds, 

Unless  our  own  just  virtues  form  our  title, 

And  give  a  sanction  to  our  fond  assumption.        Shirley. 

'Tis  much  he  dares  ; 

And  to  that  dauntless  temper  of  his  mind, 
He  hath  a  wisdom  that  doth  guide  his  valour 
To  act  in  safety.       .     .........     Slw.ks. 

A  spirit  unequalled,  and  high, 

That  claims,  and  seeks  ascendancy  .....     Byron. 

A  sage  in  head,  a  demi-god  in  war.       .     .     .     Teackle. 

He  sits  'mongst  men,  like  a  descended  god  : 

He  hath  a  kind  of  honour  sets  him  off, 

More  than  a  mortal  seeming  .......    Shaks. 

I  've  scanned  the  actions  of  his  daily  life, 


And  nothing  meets  mine  eye  but  deeds  of  honour. 

Hannah  More. 

Good  actions  crown  themselves  with  lasting  BAYS, 
Who  deserves  well,  needs  not  another's  praise.     Heath. 


BELVIDERE.  I  declare  against  you.      Miserable  most,  to  love  unlov'd Shaks. 

Scoparia  dulcis.  Pray  you,  no  more  of  this  ; 

I  would  love  you,  if  I  could same. 

Wild  Liquorice. 

Reason  and  love  keep  little  company  together  now  a  days. 
A  veronica.  same. 

Oh,  'tis  the  curse  of  love,  and  still  appprov'd, 

When  women  cannot  love,  where  they  're  belov'd.  same. 

Of  all  pains,  the  greatest  pain 

It  is  to  love,  but  love  in  vain Cowley. 


BIRD'S-FOOT  TREFOIL. 
Lotus. 


Revenge.  I  have  done  penance  for  contemning  love  ; 

Whose  high  imperious  thoughts  have  punished  me 
With  bitter  fasts,  with  penitential  groans, 
With  nightly  tears,  and  daily  heart-sore  sighs ; 
For  in  revenge  of  my  contempt  of  love, 
Love  hath  chas'd  sleep  from  my  enthralled  eyes, 
And  made  them  watchers  of  mine  own  heart's  sorrow. 

Shaks. 

Alas  !  that  love,  so  gentle  in  his  view, 

Should  be  so  tyrannous  and  rough  in  proof!       .    same. 


Box. 

Buxus. 


Constancy.  ^u*  ^  am  constant  as  the  northern  star, 

Of  whose  true  fix'd  and  resting  quality 
There  is  no  fellow  in  the  firmament  .....     Shaks. 

The  proof  of  all  the  past, 
Assures  the  future  that  my  love  will  last.    .    .    Moore. 

Here  is  my  hand  for  my  true  constancy  ; 

And  when  that  hour  o'er-slips  me  in  the  day, 

Wherein  I  sigh  not,  Julia,  for  thy  sake, 

The  next  ensuing  hour  some  foul  mischance 

Torment  me  for  my  love's  forgetfulness!      .     .     Shaks. 

The  strong  base  and  building  of  my  love 

Is  as  the  very  centre  of  the  earth, 

Drawing  all  things  to  it  .......     <f.    same. 


His  thoughts  are  high,  his  love  is  wise  — 

And  though  he  does  not  always  smile, 

He  loves  unto  the  end  .......    Montgomery. 


Seasons  may  roll, 
But  my  true  soul 
Burns  the  same,  where'er  it  goes. 


Moore. 


BROOM. 
Genista. 


Humility.  Humility,  that  low  sweet  root, 

From  which  all  heavenly  virtues  shoot. 


Moore. 


Humility  is  eldest-born  of  virtue, 

And  claims  the  birth-right  at  the  throne  of  Heaven. 

Murphy. 


It  is  the  witness  still  of  excellence, 

To  put  a  strange  face  on  his  own  perfection. 


Shaks. 


Merit  was  ever  modest  known Gay. 


BROOM.  I.  you*1  slass. 

Will  modestly  discover  to  yourself, 
(Continued.)  That  of  yourself,  which  yet  you  know  not  of.        Shaks. 

I  know  the  gentleman 
To  be  of  worth,  and  worthy  estimation, 
And  not  without  desert  so  well  reputed.      .    .      same. 

The  rather  will  I  spare  my  praises  towards  him, 
Knowing  him,  is  enough.   ........    same, 

The  force  of  his  own  merit  makes  his  way.  .    .    same. 


BUTTER  CUP;  Riches.  Wooing  thee,  I  found  thee  of  more  value 

Than  stamps  in  gold,  or  sums  in  sealed  bags ; 
or,  King  Cup.  And  'tis  the  very  riches  of  thyself, 

That  now  I  aim  at Shaks. 

Ranunculus  acris. 

She  is  indeed  a  gem 
Fit  to  adorn  the  brightest  crown  :  to  see 

° 

Is  to  admire  her Dr.  Thomas  Franklin's 

-c<     i     r-ar         •  i 
Larl  of  Warwick. 

Had  I  a  crown,  all  I  should  prize  in  it 

Would  be  the  power  to  lay  it  at  your  feet.     .    Dryden. 

Were  I  in  the  wildest  waste  sae  black  and  bare, 
The  desert  were  a  paradise,  if  thou  wert  there. 
Were  I  monarch  o'  the  globe,  with  thee  to  reign, 
The  brightest  jewel  in  my  crown,  wad  be  my  queen. 

Burns. 

Wert  thou  as  far 

As  that  vast  shore  washed  by  the  distant  sea, 
I  would  adventure  for  such  merchandise.     .     .    Shaks. 

Were  I  crown'd  the  most  imperial  monarch, 
Thereof  most  worthy:  were  I  the  fairest  youth 
That  ever  made  eye  swerve ;  had  force  and  knowledge, 
More  than  ever  man's — I  would  not  prize  them 
Without  her  love same. 


CALLA,  JEthiopica.  Feminine  Modesty.      In  flowers  and  blossoms,  love  is  wont  to  trace 

Emblems  of  woman's  virtues  and  her  grace  ; 

Arum  ,/Ethiopicum.  Both  pure,  both  sweet,  both  form'd  with  curious  skill, 

The  quaint  analogy  surprises  still. 
Hence  rose  a  mystic  tongue,  which  I  know  not, 
Or,  with  love's  other  language  have  forgot : 
At  "  thirty,"  one  may  gaze  on  rose  and  lily, 
Nor  grow  poetic,  amorous,  nor — silly. 


-«*• 


CALLA,  ^Ethiopica. 

(Continued.) 


Yet,  fair  exotic  !  by  this  single  rule, 

That  thy  name  speaks  thee  of  "  the  Beautiful," 

(A  race  by  ancient  gods  and  modern  men 

Alike  ador'd,)  thou  should'st  engage  my  pen : 

The  more,  that  thy  chaste  hue  of  modest  white 

Evokes  the  thought  of  one  as  pure,  as  bright ; 

On  whose  fair  brow  most  legibly  is  writ, 

What  more  enchants,  than  beauty,  grace,  or  wit : 

Of  thai,  with  thy  fresh  circling  leaf  of  green, 

(.An  artless  robe,  adapted  to  thy  mien,) 

Henceforth  in  Flora's  reign  the  emblem  be, 

And  bear  the  name  of  Female  Modesty*      .     .     C***e. 


CALYCANTHUS.  Benevolence. 

,H0«<jdJ  lo  w.- 
C.  floridus. 


s  ito 
.oiaitl  liaw 

i'j  i  oJ  sod' 


Nature  all,  is  blooming  and  benevolent  like  thee. 

Thomson. 

Like  a  sweet  flower  that  on  the  passing  breeze 

Sheds  its  rich  fragrance — like  a  pure  star  shining 

With  tranquil  glory  in  a  summer  sky  ; 

So  pure,  so  gentle,  so  benevolent, 

That  men  were  doubtful  if  of  earth  she  was, 

Or  spirit,  haply  straying  from  its  home.    .     .     S.  P.  C. 

His  heart  no  selfish  cares  confin'd, 

He  felt  for  all  that  feel  distress ; 
And  still  benevolent  and  kind, 

He  bless'd  them,  or  he  wish'd  to  bless.       Cartwright. 


CAMELLA,  Japonica. 

Japan  Rose. 
C.  J. 


Pity- 


Lucia,  though  sworn  never  to  think  of  love, 
Compassionates  your  pains,  and  pities  you. 


Addison. 


Heaven  has  not  cursed  me  with  a  heart  of  steel — 
But  given  the  sense  to  pity  and  to  feel. 

Homer's  Odyssey. 

Answer. 

What  is  compassion,  when  'tis  void  of  love  ? 

She  pities  me ! 

To  one  that  asks  the  warm  return  of  love, 
Compassion  's  cruelty, — 'tis  scorn,  'tis  death.    Addison. 

If  I  could  temporize  with  my  affection, 

Or  brew  it  to  a  weak  or  colder  palate, 

The  like  allayment  could  I  give  my  grief. 

My  love  admits  no  qualifying  dross ; 

No  more  my  grief,  in  such  a  precious  loss.  .     .     Sfiaks. 


*  Note.    To  which  the  Romans  erected  two  temples. 


HI* 


CANTERBURY  BELL. 
Campanula  medium. 


Gratitude.  And  you,  my  dearest  friend !  How  shall  I  thank  you  ? 

What  shall  I  do  to  show  my  grateful  heart  ? 

Sophocles'  Philoctetes. 

I  cannot  tell  thee  what  I  feel,  for  words 
Have  not  the  power  to  shadow  forth  the  soul's 
Deep  and  intense  affections ;  but  my  heart, 
My  life,  already  thine,  again  I  give  thee — 

Poor  evidence  of  my  sumless  gratitude.      .     S.  P.  C. 

I  have  a  grateful  soul,  would  give  you  thanks, 

And  knows  not  how  to  do  it,  but  with  tears.      .     Shaks. 

Take  his  thanks,  that  yet  hath  nothing  else — 

If  fortune  serve  me,  I  '11  requite  this  kindness.       same. 


The  debt  immense  of  endless  gratitude  ! 


Milton. 


CAPE  JASMINE. 

Gardenia  florida. 


Transport.      Ecstasy.        She  bids  me  hope !  and  in  that  charming  word, 

Has  peace  and  transport  to  my  soul  restored.    Lyttleto7i. 

Tune  your  harps, 

Ye  angels,  to  that  sound ;  and  thou,  my  heart, 
Make  room  to  entertain  thy  flowing  joy. 
Hence  all  my  griefs,  and  every  anxious  care ; 
One  word  and  one  kind  glance  can  cure  despair.  Dryden. 

What  shall  I  answer  thee  ?     My  ravish'd  heart 
O'erflows  with  secret  joy. 

I  'm  blind  with  too  much  light : 
O'ercome  with  wonder,  and  oppress'd  with  joy. 
This  vast  profusion  of  extreme  delight, 
Rising  at  once,  and  bursting  from  despair, 
Defies  the  aid  of  words,  and  mocks  description.      Lillo. 

My  spirits,  as  in  a  dream,  are  all  bound  up.      .    Shaks. 

For  joy  like  this,  death  were  a  cheap  exchange ! 

jEschylus'1  Agamemnon. 


CARDINAL'S  FLOWER. 
Lobelia  cardinalis. 


Distinction.  Dost  grasp  at  greatness  ?  first  know  what  it  is : 

Think'st  thou  that  greatness  in  distinction  lies  ? 
Not  in  the  feather,  wave  it  e'er  so  high, 
Is  glory  lodg'd :  'tis  lodg'd  in  the  reverse ; 

A  deathless  soul Young. 

'Tis  the  mind  that  makes  the  body  rich : 

And  as  the  sun  breaks  through  the  darkest  clouds, 

So  honour  peereth  in  the  meanest  habit.  .     .     .     Shaks. 


CARDINAL'S   FLOWER. 

(Continued. ) 


High  stations  tumult,  but  not  bliss  create, 

None  think  the  great  unhappy,  but  the  great.      Young. 

Keen  are  the  pains  advancement  often  brings — 
To  be  secure,  be  humble — to  be  happy,  be  content. 


Pride,  like  an  eagle,  builds  among  the  stars ; 

But  pleasure,  lark-like,  rests  upon  the  ground.        same. 

And  often  to  our  comfort  shall  we  find] 

The  sharded  beetle  in  a  safer  hold, 

Than  is  the  full-wing'd  eagle Shaks. 

The  chase 

Of  glory  is  delightful,  but  when  won, 
It  brings  disquiet Euripides'  Iphigenia. 

Fondness  for  fame  is  avarice  of  air Young. 


CATCH  FLY,  Red.         Youthful  love. 
Silene. 


It  is  the  show  and  seal  of  nature's  truth, 

When  love's  strong  passion  is  imprest  in  youth.  Shaks. 

What  can  match  the  spell  divine, 

The  first  impassion'd  dream  of  youth  !     .    Anonymous. 

Loving  with  all  that  wild  devotion, 
That  deep,  and  passionate  emotion — 
Loving  with  all  the  snow-white  truth, 
That  is  found  but  in  early  youth ; 
Freshness  of  feeling,  as  of  flower, 
That  lives  not  more  than  spring's  first  hour.     L.  E.  L. 

But  sweeter  still  than  this,  than  these,  than  all, 

Is  first  and  passionate  love — it  stands  alone, 

Like  Adam's  recollection  of  his  fall Byron. 


CATCH  FLY,  White. 

Silene. 


[fall  into  the  trap      Yet  who  could  have  suspected  an  ambush, 

laid  for  me.  where  I  was  taken  ? Shaks. 

All  unavoided  is  the  doom  of  destiny.        .     .     .     same. 
What  Fates  impose,  that  men  must  needs  abide,     same. 

Let  none  think  to  fly  the  danger, 
For  soon  or  late,  love  is  his  own  avenger.     .     .     Byron. 

What  e'er  betides,  by  destiny  'tis  done, 

And  better  bear  like  men,  than  vainly  seek  to  shun. 

Dryden. 


CATCH  FLY,  White. 

(Continued.) 


Alas,  what  stay  is  there  in  human  state, 

Or  who  can  shun  inevitable  fate  ?      .     .     .     .     Dryden. 


CEDAR. 
Juniperus. 


/  live  for  thee.  To  thee,  my  love,  my  heart,  my  life  are  due.  Langhorne. 

Thou  art  my  light  of  life!  without  thee,  bliss, 

Even  the  bliss  of  angels,  were  but  pain  ; 

But  with  thee,  earth  hath  not  a  wilderness 

So  dark,  but  'twould  be  blessed  paradise.      .      S.  P.  C. 


All  that  of  myself  is  mine, 
Lovely  Amoret,  is  thine. 


Be  mine,  dear  maid !  this  faithful  heart 

Can  never  prove  untrue ; 
'Twere  easier  far  with  life  to  part, 

Than  cease  to  live  for  you.      .     .     . 


Waller. 


Terry. 


My  soul,  gone  forth  from  this  lone  breast, 

Lives  only,  love,  in  thine ; 
There  is  its  holy  home  of  rest, 

Its  dear,  its  chosen  shrine 


CHINA  ASTER,  Double. 
Aster  chinensis. 


I  partake  your      Mutual  love  the  crown  of  all  our  bliss! 

sentiments. 

Each  fear  that  chill'd  their  loves  was  past. 

'Tis  not  in  fate  to  harm  me, 
While  fate  leaves  thy  love  to  me ; 

'Tis  not  in  joy  to  charm  me, 
Unless  that  joy  be  shared  with  thee.  .  . 


.    Milton. 
.    Moore. 


Be  mine  the  more  refined  delights 

Of  love,  that  banishes  control, 
When  the  fond  heart  with  heart  unites, 

And  soul 's  in  unison  with  soul.  .     .     .     Cartwright. 

Where  heart  meets  heart,  reciprocally  soft, 
Each  other's  pillow  to  repose  divine.      .     .     .     Young. 


CHINA    ASTER,  Single.        1  will  think  of  it.       Be  not  ^hearten'd,  then  nor  cloud  those  looks 

°  *  rFKof   Tirr»rit    f/i   ho    innro  nhoorfnl   nr»H   cpr*>np  /Ml, 


Aster  chinensis. 


That  wont  to  be  more  cheerful  and  serene. 


Milton. 


We  would  not  sink  thy  soul 

With  fear  in  the  excess,  nor  raise  it  high 

With  confidence.      .     .     .     JEschylus.     The  Persians. 


CHINA  ASTER,  Single. 

(Continued.) 


Oft  expectation  fails,  and  most  oft  there 
Where  most  it  promises :  and  oft  it  hits 
Where  hope  is  coldest,  and  despair  most  sits. 

Answer. 


Shales. 


Those  gracious  words  revive  my  drooping  thoughts, 
And  give  my  tongue-tied  sorrows  leave  to  speak.  Shake. 

I  spy  some  pity  in  thy  looks same. 

Do  not  hold  forth  a  grace,  then  snatch  it  from  me. 

JEschylus*  Prometheus  Chained. 


CHRYSANTHEMUM, 

Rose  colour. 

Chrysanthemum  Indicum. 


My  heart  will  burst,  an  if  I  speak, 

And  I  will  speak,  that  so  my  heart  may  burst.     Sftaks. 

Yet, 

Why  should  I  blush  to  own  I  love  ? — 
'Tis  love  that  rules  the  realms  above. 
Why  should  I  blush  to  say  to  all, 
That  virtue  holds  my  heart  in  thrall  ?         H.  K.  White. 


CHRYSANTHEMUM,  White. 
Chrysanthemum  Indicum. 


Oh,  she  had  yet  the  task  to  learn, 

How  often  woman's  heart  must  tarn 

To  feed  upon  its  own  excess 

Of  deep,  yet  passionate,  tenderness  ! 

How  much  of  grief  the  heart  must  prove, 

That  yields  a  sanctuary  to  love !      .     .    .     .     L.  E.  L 

Truth.  All  my  offering  must  be 

Truth,  and  spotless  constancy L.  E.  L. 

^ 

Truth  needs  no  flowers  of  speech. Pope. 

\l 

True  as  a  needle  to  the  pole, 

Or  as  the  dial  to  the  sun  ; 

Constant  as  gliding  waters  roll, 

Whose  swelling  tides  obey  the  moon ; 

From  ev'ry  other  charmer  free, 

My  life,  and  love,  shall  follow  thee Booth. 

Answer. 

/~- 

How  sweet  the  words  of  truth, 
Breath'd  from  the  lips  of  love Beattie. 


CHRYSANTHEMUM. 


(Continued.) 


Eloquence  glows  on  your  lips, 

When  you  swear  that  you  '11  love  me  for  ever.      Moore. 

Thy  words  had  such  a  melting  flow, 

And  spoke  of  truth  so  sweetly  well, 

They  dropp'd,  like  heaven's  serenest  snow, 

And  all  was  brightness  where  they  fell !      .     .      same. 


Her  heart  all  love,  her  soul  all  truth. 


Dibdin. 


CHRYSANTHEMUM,         Slighted  love. 
Yellow. 

Chrys.  Indicum. 


Still  dash'd  with  blushes  for  her  slighted  love. 

Addison's  Ovid. 

Was  it  for  this  I  loved  him  so, 

And  lavished  hopes  that  brightly  shone  ?  .     .     .     C.  G. 

Did  I  not  love  him  with  the  purest  flame  ? 

And  give  up  friends  and  fortune  for  his  sake  ?        Shaw. 

Love's  summer  flower,  how  soon  thou  art  decayed — 
Opening  amid  a  paradise  of  sweets, 
Dying  with  withered  leaves,  and  cankered  stem ! 
Gone — and  the  trusting  heart  which  thou  hast  made 
So  green,  so  lovely,  for  thy  dwelling  place, 

Left  to  desolation ! L.  E.  L. 

s 

It  may  be  sport  to  win  a  heart, 

Then  leave  that  heart  to  pine  and  die  !         Westmacott. 


CLOVER,  Red. 
Trifolium  pratense. 


Indtistry.  If  little  labour,  little  are  our  gains : 

Man's  fortunes  are  according  to  his  pains. 


Herrick. 


One  alone 

May  do  the  task  of  many,  when  the  mind 
Is  active  in  it Sophocles'  CEdipus. 

Industrious  wisdom  often  does  prevent 

What  lazy  folly  thinks  inevitable.       Abdicated  Prince. 

Absence  of  occupation  is  not  rest, 

A  mind  quite  vacant,  is  a  mind  distress'd.      .     Cowper. 

The  keenest  pangs  the  wretched  find, 

Are  rapture  to  the  dreary  void — 

The  leafless  desert  of  the  mind — 

The  waste  of  feelings  unemploy'd Byron. 

Like  a  coy  maiden,  ease,  when  courted  most, 

Farthest  retires — an  idol,  at  whose  shrine 

Who  oft'nest  sacrifice  are  favour'd  least.       .     Cowper. 


COCK'S  COMB. 
Celosia  cristata. 
Amaranthus. 


Foppery.      Affectation.      The  gaudy  cocfc's  comb,  idly  vain, 

Appears  in  all  its  showy  bloom.     .     .     Fables  of  Flora. 

Coxcombs  are  of  all  ranks  and  kind, 
They  're  not  to  sex,  or  age,  confined, 

Of  rich,  or  poor,  or  great,  or  small, 

'Tis  vanity  besets  them  all Gay. 

The  leopard's  beauty,  without  the  fox's  wit,  is  no  better 
than  a  fop  in  a  gay  coat L'Estrange. 

Ah!  friend !  to  dazzle  let  the  vain  design, 

To  raise  the  thought  and  teach  the  heart  be  thine.  Pope. 


COLUMBINE,  Purple. 
Aquilegia. 


Resolved  to  win.         This  hand,  I  cannot  but  in  death  resign !       .     Dryden. 


Think'st  thou 

That  I  could  live,  and  let  thee  go, 
Who  art  my  life  itself? — no — no. 


Moore. 


To  prevail  in  the  cause  that  is  dearer  than  life, 

Or,  crush'd  in  its  ruins,  to  die !       ....     Campbell. 


COLUMBINE,  Red.     Anxious  and  trembling.      How  throbbed  my  fluttering  pulse  with  hopes  and  fears. 

Rogers. 
A.  canadensis. 

Thrown  into  tumult,  raptur'd  or  alarm'd  !  .    .     Young. 

Hope  and  fear  maintain  eternal  strife — 

Where  fleeting  joy  does  lasting  doubts  inspire, 

And  most  we  question  what  we  most  desire.      .     Prior. 

O !  soothe  my  soul  to  rest — 
And  calm  the  rising  tumult  in  my  breast. 

Sophocles'1  (Edipus  Tyrannus. 

Answer. 

The  rose  is  fairest  when  'tis  budding  new, 

And  hope  is  brightest  when  it  dawns  from  fears.    Scott. 


CONVOLVULUS. 
Convolvulus. 


Uncertainty.                 Hope  and  fear  alternate  sway'd  his  breast, 
Like  light  and  shade  upon  a  waving  field, 
Coursing  each  other,  when  the  flying  clouds 
Now  hide,  and  now  reveal  the  sun Home. 


CONVOLVULUS. 

(Continued.) 


For  love  pursues  an  ever  devious  race, 

True  to  the  winding  lineaments  of  grace.    .     Campbell. 


COREOPSIS,  Arkansa. 
Coreopsis  tinctoria. 


Love  at  first  sight.    No  warning  of  the  approaching  flame, 
Swiftly,  like  sudden  death  it  came, 
I  lov'd  the  moment  I  beheld ! Granville. 

A  change  so  swift,  what  heart  did  ever  feel  ? 

It  rush'd  upon  me  like  a  mighty  stream, 

And  bore  me  in  a  moment  far  from  shore. 

I  've  lov'd  away  myself:  in  one  short  hour, 

Already  am  I  gone  an  age  of  passion.  .     .     .     Dryden. 

She  seizes  hearts,  not  waiting  for  consent, 
Like  sudden  death,  that  snatches,  unprepared ; 
Like  fire  from  heaven,  scarce  seen  so  soon  as  felt. 

Lansdowri's  Heroic  Love. 


Oh !  there  are  looks  and  tones  that  dart 
An  instant  sunshine  through  the  heart ; 
As  if  the  soul,  that  minute,  caught 
Some  treasure  it  through  life  had  sought ! 


Thou  com'st  in  beauty  on  my  gaze  at  last, 
Image  of  many  a  dream  in  hours  past ! 


Moore. 


Halleck. 


Answer. 

IB  it  possible,  that  love  should  of  a  sudden  take  such 
hold? Shaks. 

The  worst  fault  you  have  is  to  be  in  love — 

'Tis  a  fault  I  would  not  change  for  your  best  virtue. 

same. 


COWSLIP,  Common. 
Primula  veris. 


Winning  grace.         A  soft  subduing  grace  around  her  breathed. 


F. 


A  lovelier  nymph  the  pencil  never  drew ; 

For  the  fond  graces  form'd  her  easy  mien, 

And  heaven's  soft  azure  in  her  eye  was  seen.      Hayley. 

Fairer  than  the  ghost  of  the  hills,  when  it  moves  in  a 
sun-beam  at  noon,  over  the  silence  of  Morven. 

Ossian. 

Fair  as  the  forms,  that,  wove  in  fancy's  loom, 

Float  in  light  vision  round  the  poet's  head.      .     Mason. 


CROCUS. 
Crocus. 


Cheerfulness.  Frame  your  mind  to  mirth  and  merriment, 

Which  bars  a  thousand  harms,  and  lengthens  life.  Shaks. 

Then  her  mirth — oh !  't  was  sportive  as  ever  took  wing 
From  the  heart,  with  a  burst,  like  the  wild  bird  in  spring. 

Moore. 

While  her  laugh,  full  of  life,  without  any  control 

But  the  sweet  one  of  gracefulness,  rung  from  her  soul. 

And  where  it  most  sparkled,  no  glance  could  discover, 

In  lip,  cheek,  or  eyes,  for  she  brighteri'd  all  over. 

Like  any  fair  lake  that  the  breeze  is  upon, 

When  it  breaks  into  dimples,  and  laughs  in  the  sun. 

same. 

I  cannot  paint  to  thee  the  charm 
Which  thou  hast  wrought  on  me, 

Thy  laugh,  so  like  the  wild  bird's  song, 

In  the  first  bloom-touch'd  tree L.  E.  L 


CROWN  IMPERIAL.        Majesty.     Power. 
Fritillaria  imperialism 


In  his  face  sat  meekness,  heighten'd  with  majestic  grace. 

Denham. 

Who  paused  to  look  again, 
Saw  more  than  marks  the  crowd  of  vulgar  men.  Byron. 

The  power  of  thought — the  magic  of  the  mind.       same. 

See,  what  a  grace  was  seated  on  this  brow : 

Hyperion's  curls ;  the  front  of  Jove  himself; 

An  eye,  like  Mars,  to  threaten  and  command ; 

A  station  like  the  herald  Mercury, 

New-lighted  on  a  heaven-kissing  hill ; 

A  combination  and  a  form,  indeed, 

Where  every  god  did  seem  to  set  his  seal, 

To  give  the  world  assurance  of  a  man!    .     .     .     Shaks. 


What  peremptory  eagle-sighted  eye, 

Dares  look  upon  the  heaven  of  her  brow, 

That  is  not  blinded  by  her  majesty  ?     .     .     .     .     same. 

High  on  the  circle  of  her  brow  erithron'd, 
From  each  majestic  motion  darting  awe, 
Devoted  awe  !  till  cherish'd  by  her  looks 
Benevolent,  and  meek  confiding  love, 
To  rapture  soften'd  all  the  soul.      .     . 


Akenside. 


His  changing  cheek,  his  sinking  heart,  confess 

The  might— the  majesty  of  loveliness.    .     .    .     Byron. 


CYPRESS. 

Cupressus  sempervirens. 


Despnir.  You  are  the  cause  of  all  my  care — 

I  love,  and  I  despair !         .     .     .     . 


Prior. 


My  eyes  confess  it. 

My  every  action  speaks  my  heart  aloud. 
But,  oh  !  the  madness  of  my  high  attempt 
Speaks  louder  yet !  and  altogether  cry, 
I  love,  and  I  despair 


Dryden. 


I  fly  the  fatal  house — suppress  my  sighs, 

Resolv'd  to  dry  my  unavailing  tears : 

But,  ah !  in  vain — no  change  of  time  or  place 

The  memory  can  efface 
Of  all  that  sweetness,  that  enchanting  air, 
Now  lost ;  and  naught  remains  but  anguish  and  despair. 

Shaw. 

Now  cold  despair,  succeeding  in  her  stead, 

To  livid  paleness  turns  the  glowing  red. 

His  blood,  scarce  liquid,  creeps  within  his  veins, 

Like  water  which  the  freezing  wind  constrains.  Dryden. 

The  lifted  arm  of  mute  despair  arrest, 

And  snatch  the  dagger  pointed  at  his  breast.     Darwin. 


DAFFODIL. 

Great  Yellow  Daffodil. 
Narcissus  major. 


Chivalry. 


Daffodils 

That  come  before  the  swallow  dares,  and  take 
The  winds  of  March  with  beauty.        .     .     . 


Shaks. 


Bright  as  the  bow  that  spans  the  storm, 
In  Erin's  yellow  vesture  clad, 

A  son  of  light,  a  lovely  form, 

He  comes  and  makes  her  glad.    .     .     , 


.     Campbell. 


'Twas  Redmond — by  the  azure  eye ; 

'Twas  Redmond — by  the  locks  that  fly 

Disordered  from  his  glowing  cheek ; 

Mien,  face,  and  form,  young  Redmond  speak. 

A  form  more  active,  light,  and  strong, 

Ne'er  shot  the  ranks  of  war  along  ; 

The  modest,  yet  the  manly  mien, 

Might  grace  the  court  of  maiden  queen.     .     . 


.     Scott. 


I  do  not  think  a  braver  gentleman, 

More  active-valiant,  or  more  valiant -young, 

More  daring,  or  more  noble,  is  now  alive, 

To  grace  this  latter  age  with  noble  deeds.     .     .     Shaks. 


DAFFODIL. 

(Continued.) 


Answer. 

But  now  I  am  returned,  and  that  war  thoughts 

Have  left  their  places  vacant,  in  their  rooms 

Come  thronging  soft  and  delicate  desires, 

All  prompting  me  how  fair  young  Hero  is.     .     .  Shales. 

Most  fair, — 

Will  you  vouchsafe  to  teach  a  soldier  terms 
Such  as  will  enter  at  a  lady's  ear, 
And  plead  his  love-suit  to  her  gentle  heart  ?       .    same. 


DAHLIA. 
Dahlia. 


For  tver  thine.  ^or  ever  thine  !  'mid  fashion's  heartless  throng, 

In  courtly  bowers,  at  folly's  gilded  shrine. 
Smiles  on  my  cheek,  light  words  upon  my  tongue, 
My  deep  heart  still  is  thine — for  ever  thine. 

A.  A.  Watts. 


Amidst  the  world,  the  only  one 
Whose  light,  among  so  many  lights, 
Was  like  that  star,  on  starry  nights 
The  seaman  singles  from  the  sky, 
To  steer  his  bark  for  ever  by.     .     . 


Moore. 


For  ever  thine,  whate'er  this  heart  betide ; 

For  ever  thine,  where'er  our  lot  be  cast.       A.  A.  Watts. 

In  pleasure's  dream,  or  sorrow's  hour, 

In  crowded  hall  or  lonely  bower, 

The  business  of  my  soul  shall  be, 

For  ever  to  remember  thee  ! Moore. 


DAISY,  Red. 

Bellis. 


Beauty  unknown  to 
the  possessor. 


The  beauty  that  is  borne  here  in  her  face, 

The  bearer  knows  not  of.  ......  "  .     .    Shaks. 

»Tis  beauty  truly  blent,  whose  red  and  white 

Nature's  own  sweet  and  cunning  hand  laid  on.      same. 

Her  eyes,  her  lips,  her  cheeks,  her  shapes,  her  features, 
Seem  to  be  drawn  by  love's  own  hands,  by  love 
Himself  in  love  ...........    Dryden. 


Is  she  not  more  than  painting  can  express, 

Or  youthful  poets  fancy  when  they  love  ?      .     .     Rowe. 

\. 

As  lamps  burn  silent,  with  unconscious  light, 

So  modest  ease  in  beauty  shines  most  bright ; 

Unairning  charms  with  edge  resistless  fall, 

And  she  who  means  no  mischief,  does  it  all.        A.  Hill. 


DAISY,  White. 

Bellis. 


Innocence. 


Whose  white  investments  figure  innocence. 


Shaks. 


Flowers  sweet  and  gay,  and  delicate  like  you, 
Emblem  of  innocence,  and  beauty  too.      Mrs.  Barbauld. 

The  bloom  of  opening  flower's  unsullied  beauty, 

Softness,  and  sweetest  innocence  she  wears, 

And  looks  like  nature  in  the  world's  first  spring.  Rowe. 


Then  her  face, 

So  lovely,  yet  so  arch,  so  full  of  mirth, 
The  overflowings  of  an  innocent  heart. 


Rogers. 


Her  manners,  by  the  world  refin'd, 
Left  all  the  taint  of  modish  vice  behind, 
And  made  each  charm  of  polish'd  courts  agree 
With  candid  truth's  simplicity, 
And  uncorrupted  innocence Lyttelton. 

Her  heavenly  form 
Angelic,  but  more  soft  and  feminine, 
Her  graceful  innocence,  her  every  air 
Of  gesture  or  least  action,  overaw'd Milton. 


DANDELION. 
Leontodon  taraxacum. 


Coquetry.  This  is  the  flower  that  smiles  on  every  one.      .    Shaks. 

In  crowds  around  thee  gaze  the  admiring  swains. 

Darwin. 

The  butterfly  of  various  hue, 
More  than  these  flowers  resemble  you ; 
Fair,  flutt  'ring,  fickle,  busy  thing, 
To  pleasure  ever  on  the  wing, 
Gaily  coquetting  for  an  hour, 
To  die,  and  ne'er  be  thought  of  more. 
Yet  certain,  as  these  flowers  fade 
Time  every  beauty  will  invade Gay. 

All  my  fond  love,  thus  do  I  blow  to  heaven !    .    .  Shakt. 


Vain  was  the  vow  to  forsake,  or  forget, 

A  look  brought  him  back  to  the  dear  coquette.  .     .    L. 


DEW  PLANT. 

Mesembryanthemum. 


A  Serenade.  Where  should  this  music  be  ?  i'  the  air,  or  the  earth  ? 

Shaks. 

'Twas  musical,  but  sadly  sweet, 

Such  as  when  winds  and  harp-strings  meet.      .    Byron. 


DEW  PLANT. 

(Continued.) 


A  soft  and  solemn-breathing  sound 
Rose  like  a  stream  of  rich  distill'd  perfumes,  . 
And  stole  upon  the  air Milton. 

How  sweetly  did  they  float  upon  the  wings 

Of  silence,  through  the^mpty  vaulted  night, 

At  every  fall  smoothing  the  raven-down 

Of  darkness,  till  it  smiled same. 


I  was  all  ear, 

And  took  in  strains  that  might  create  a  soul 
Under  the  ribs  of  death.  ....  .     same. 


Soft  stillness,  and  the  night 
Become  the  touches  of  sweet  harmony. 


.     .     Shaks. 


But  the  gentlest  of  all,  are  those  sounds  full  of  feeling, 
That  soft  from  the  lute  of  some  lover  are  stealing — 
Some  lover,  who  knows  all  the  heart-touching  power 
Of  a  lute,  and  a  sigh,  in  the  magical  hour.  .     .     Moore. 


"  And  yonder  lattice,  where  thick  vine-leaves 
Are  canopy,  a  maiden  leans — she  has  caught 
A  shadow — and  she  sees  a  well  known  form 
Amid  those  trees,  and  with  her  hair  flung  back, 
She  listens  to  his  song — *  The  song  she  loved.'  " 

With  rapt  ear  drink  the  enchanting  serenade, 

And,  as  it  melts  along  the  moonlight  glade, 

To  each  soft  note  return  as  soft  a  sigh, 

And  bless  the  youth  that  bids  her  slumbers  fly.  Rogers. 


DOGWOOD  BLOSSOM. 
Cornus. 


/  am  perfectly  in-     If  e'er  I  lov'd  her,  all  that  love  is  gone.    . 
different  to  you. 

Never  did  captive  with  freer  heart 

Cast  off  his  chains  of  bondage 


Shaks. 


Such  love,  by  flattering  charms  betray'd, 

Shall  yet  indignant  soon  rebel, 
And,  blushing  for  the  choice  he  made, 

Shall  fly  where  gentler  virtues  dwell. 

'Tis  then  the  mind,  from  bondage  free, 

And  all  its  former  weakness  o'er, 
Asserts  its  native  dignity, 

And  scorns  what  folly  prized  before.      .     Cartwright. 

Answer. 
She  gladly  shunn'd,  who  gladly  fled  from  her.       Shaks. 


EGLANTINE.  I  wound  to  heal. 

European  Sweet  Briar. 
Rosa  rubiginosa. 


Now  show  the  wound  mine  eyes  have  made  in  theo. 

Shaks. 

I  will  not  cast  away  my  physic, 

But  on  those  that  are  sick.  same. 


Answer. 

\ 

If  ever  (as  that  ever  may  be  near) 

You  meet  in  some  fresh  cheek  the  power  of  fancy, 

Then  shall  you  know  the  wounds  invisible 

That  love's  keen  arrows  make same. 

Lady. 

Wise  men  ne'er  wail  their  present  woes, 

But  presently  prevent  the  way  to  wail.    .     .     .     Shaks. 

I  dare  for  once  prescribe  for  your  disease.          Dryden. 

I  would  cure  you,  if  you  would  but  call  me  Rosalind, 
And  come  every  day  to  my  cote,  and  woo  me.      Shaks. 

Rejoinder. 

Skill  infinite — 
Sweet  practitioner,  thy  physic  I  will  try.       .     .     same. 


ELDER.  Compassion. 

Sambucus  nigor. 


His  sighs  and  his  tears  had  so  wrought  on  her  mind, 
That  in  downright  compassion,  to  love  she  inclined. 

Miss  M.  Jones. 

When  she  saw  her  reasons  idly  spent, 

And  could  not  move  him  from  his  fix'd  intent.  Dryden. 

The  cloud  gave  way, 
The  mist  flew  upward,  and  dissolv'd  in  day.  same. 

An  artless  passion,  fraught  with  hopes  and  fears, 
And  nearest  happy,  when  it  most  despairs.     .     Gibber. 

Touch  but  the  tender  strings 
Of  soft  compassion  in  the  heart,  and  love 
Will  quickly  vibrate  to  its  kindred  passion. 

Dr.  Thomas  Franklin's  Earl  of  Warwick. 


EVERLASTING. 
Gnaphalium. 


Never  ceasing  So  turns  the  impatient  needle  to  the  pole, 

remembrance.  Though  mountains  rise  between,  and  oceans  roll. 

Darwin. 


EVERLASTING. 

(Continued.) 


Thou  wert  a  rainbow  to  my  sight, 
The  storms  oflife  before  thee  fled, 

The  glory  and  the  guiding  light, 
That  onward  cheered,  and  upward  led ; 

Thou  wert  my  guiding  light  afar.     . 


Delta. 


There  's  not  an  hour 

Of  day,  or  dreaming  night,  but  I  am  with  thee : 
There  's  not  a  wind  but  whispers  of  thy  name  ; 
And  not  a  flower  that  sleeps  beneath  the  moon, 
But  in  its  fragrance  tells  a  tale 
Of  thee. 


Proctor. 


There 's  not  a  look,  a  word  of  thine, 

My  soul  hath  ere  forgot ; 
Thou  ne'er  hast  bid  a  ringlet  shine, 
Nor  given  thy  locks  one  graceful  twine, 

Which  I  remember  not !     .     .     .     . 


Moore. 


All  nature  fades  extinct ;  and  she  alone 

Heard,  felt,  and  seen,  possesses  every  thought, 

Fills  every  sense,  and  pants  in  every  vein.        Thomson. 


FEVER  ROOT. 

Eupatorium. 


Delay. 


Why,  how  now,  Orlando !  where  have  you  been  all 
this  while  ?  You  a  lover  ?  An'  you  serve  me  such 
another  trick,  never  come  in  my  sight  more.  .  Shaks. 

Nay,  an'  you  be  so  tardy,  come  no  more  in  my  sight ; 
I  had  as  lief  be  woo'd  of  a  snail same. 

Break  an  hour's  promise  in  love  ?  He  that  will  divide 
a  minute  into  a  thousand  parts,  and  break  but  a  part  of 
the  thousandth  part  of  a  minute  in  the  affairs  of  love,  it 
may  be  said  of  him,  that  Cupid  hath  clapp'd  him  o'  the 
shoulder,  but  I  warrant  him  heart  whole.  .  .  same. 


FIR. 

Balm  of  GUead. 
Pinus  balsamea. 


\ 


Time. 


Ah  !  how  much  must  that  poor  heart  endure, 

Which  hopes  from  thee,  and  thee  alone  a  cure  !     Bowles. 

Years  have  not  seen,  time  shall  not  see 

The  hour  that  tears  my  soul  from  thee.       .     .     Byron. 

And  as  age  but  makes  the  vine, 

Whose  young  tendrils  wander 

Round  the  sapling  stem,  entwine 

Fonder  there  and  fonder — 

So  my  breast  for  thee  retains 

The  first  love  that  bound  it ; 

Time  can  only  twine  the  chains 

Still  more  firmly  round  it Sweeny. 


FIR. 


(Continued.) 


Hopes,  which  ought  not,  like  things  of  time,  to  cloy, 
And  feelings  time  shall  deepen — not  destroy.      Barton. 


Fox  GLOVE. 

Digitalis. 


A  wish.  ^  '  tna*  '  were  a  glove  upon  that  hand, 

That  I  might  touch  that  cheek  !     .     .    . 


Shaks. 


Ah !  might  I  breathe  my  humble  vow, 

Might  she  too  deign  to  lend  an  ear  ! 
Elvira's  self  should  then  allow 

That  Armine  was  at  least  sincere. 

Wild  wish  !  to  dream  the  matchless  maid 

Would  listen  to  a  youth  like  me  ; 
Or  that  my  vows  could  e'er  persuade, 

Sincere  and  constant  though  they  be  !      Cartwright. 


For  myself  alone, 
I  would  not  be  ambitious  in  my  wish ; 

Yet  for  you, 

I  would  be  trebled  twenty  times  myself; 
A  thousand  times  more  fair,  ten  thousand  times  more  rich, 
That  only  to  stand  high  in  your  account, 
I  might  in  virtues,  beauties,  livings,  friends, 

Exceed  account !        Shaks. 


FUCHSIA.  Th?  ambition  in  my  love 

thus  plagues  itself. 

Love  lies-a-bleeding. 


It  were  all  one, 

That  I  should  love  a  bright  particular  star, 
And  think  to  wed  it,  he  is  so  above  me  : 
In  his  bright  radiance  and  collateral  light 
Must  I  be  comforted,  not  in  his  sphere. 

*  *  *  * 

'Twas  pretty,  though  a  plague 
To  see  him  every  hour ;  to  sit  and  draw 
His  arched  brows,  his  hawking  eye,  his  curls, 
In  our  heart's  table ;  heart,  too  capable 
Of  every  line  and  trick  of  his  sweet  favour : 
But  now  he  's  gone,  and  my  idolatrous  fancy 
Must  sanctify  his  relics Shaks. 

I  know  I  love  in  vain,  strive  against  hope ; 

Yet,  in  this  captious  and  intenible  sieve, 

I  still  pour  out  the  waters  of  my  love, 

And  lack  not  to  lose  still ;  thus,  Indian  like, 

Religious  in  mine  error,  I  adore 

The  sun,  that  looks  upon  his  worshipper, 

But  knows  of  him  no  more same. 


FUCHSIA. 

CContinued.) 


This  is  the  truth:  his  spirit  wholly  turn'd 
To  stern  ambition's  dream,  to  that  fierce  strife 
Which  leads  to  life's  high  places,  and  reck'd  not 
What  lovely  flowers  might  perish  in  his  path.  L.  E.  L. 


GERANIUM,  Apple. 


Pelargonium  pomifragrans. 


Present  preference.      Emma  with  smiles  receives  his  present  flame ; 
But,  smiling,  will  she  ever  be  the  same  ? 


Beautiful  looks  are  rul'd  by  fickle  minds ; 

And  summer  seas  are  turn'd  by  sudden  winds. 
Another  love  may  gain  her  easy  youth  : 
Time  changes  thoughts,  and  flattery  conquers  truth. 

Prior. 

I  know  not  what  my  future  thoughts  will  be : 
Poor  woman's  thoughts  are  all  extempore. 

Wise  men,  indeed, 

Beforehand  a  long  chain  of  thoughts  produce  ; 
But  ours  are  only  for  our  present  use.       .     .    Dryden. 

Never  should  man  too  confident  assert, 
Much  less  by  oath  should  bind  himself  to  aught; 
For  soon  our  judgments  change,  and  one  opinion 
Destroys  another Sophocles'1  Antigone. 


GERANIUM. 
Crane's  Bill. 
Geranium  maculatum. 


Envy. 


With  fame,  in  just  proportion,  envy  grows  ; 

The  man  that  makes  a  character,  makes  foes.       Young. 

Great  and  good  persons  well  may  be 

From  guilt,  but  not  from  envy  free.       .    .     .    Barron. 

Few  have  the  fortitude  of  soul  to  honour 
A  friend's  success,  without  a  touch  of  envy. 

JEschylus'1  Agamemnon. 

Base  envy  withers  at  another's  joy, 

And  hates  that  excellence  it  cannot  reach.        Thomson. 

Envy  doth  invade 

Works  breathing  to  eternity  ;  and  cast 
Upon  the  fairest  piece  the  greatest  shade.    .    .    Aleyn. 

Envy  will  merit  as  its  shade  pursue ; 

But  like  a  shadow,  proves  the  substance  true.         Pope. 


The  great  should  have  the  fame  of  happiness, 
The  consolation  of  a  little  envy ; 
'Tis  all  their  pay  for  those  superior  cares, 
Those  pangs  of  heart  their  vassals  ne'er  can  feel. 


Young. 


GERANIUM,  Fish. 

Pelargonium  inquinans. 


Disappointed  Let  this 

expectation.       Tell  thee  what  I  suffer  by  thy  stay — 

Did  seas  divide  us,  this  might  well  excuse 
Thy  negligence,  and  my  fond  heart  abuse. 

*  *  * 

But  thou  art  changed !     That  ardour  is  expir'd, 
Which  once  thy  wishes  with  impatience  fir'd. 

Mary  Q.  of  F.  to  C.  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk. 

Where  now  are  all  my  flatt'ring  dreams  of  joy  ? 

Smollet. 

It  is  unkind  delay 

Destroys  my  hopes.      *       *       *       * 
Who  can  bear  this,  and  keep  an  equal  mind  ? 

Sophocles'  Electro. 


Why  didst  thou  say  I  was  brighter  far 
Than  the  bright  ray  of  the  ev'ning  star  ? 

Why  didst  thou  come, 

Seeking  my  home, 
Till  I  believ'd  that  thy  vows  were  sincere  ? 


I  ask  no  vengeance  from  the  powers  above, 
All  I  implore  is,  never  more  to  love  ! 


.    Song. 


Lyttelton. 


GERANIUM,  Ivy.  Your  hand  for  the  next    Be  her  my  choice,  who  knows  with  perfect  skill 


Pelargonium  peltatum. 


quadrille 


When  she  should  move,  and  when  she  should  stand  still ; 
Who,  uninstructed,  can  perform  her  share, 
And  kindly  half  the  pleasing  burthen  bear. 
*  *  *  * 

A  nameless  grace  does  in  her  movements  dwell, 
Which  words  can  ne'er  express,  or  precepts  tell. 
'Tis  such  an  air  that  makes  her  thousands  fall 
When  Fielding  dances  at  a  birth-night  ball ; 
Smooth  as  Camilla  she  skims  o'er  the  plain, 
And  flies,  like  her,  through  crowds  of  heroes  slain. 

S.  Jenyns. 


Answer. 


We  '11  knit  hands  and  beat  the  ground, 
In  a  light  fantastic  round 


Milton. 


GERANIUM,  Nutmeg. 


P.  odoratissimum. 


An  expected  meeting    The  joys  of  meeting  pay  the  pangs  of  absence ; 

Else  who  could  bear  it? Rowe. 


GERANIUM. 


(Continued.) 


The  heavy  hours  are  almost  past, 
That  part  my  love  and  me ; 

My  longing  eyes  may  hope  at  last 
Their  only  wish  to  see  .  .  . 


Lyttdton. 


I  go  my  love  to  meet — 
Oh  !  may  I  find  her  as  we  parted  last — 
And  may  each  future  hour  be  like  the  past.     .      same. 
\  » 

Oh !  how  impatience  gains  upon  the  soul, 
When  the  long  promised  hour  of  joy  draws  near ! 
How  slow  the  tardy  moments  seem  to  roll !  Mrs.  Tighe. 

'Tis  sweet  to  know  there  is  an  eye  will  mark 

Our  coming,  and  look  brighter  when  we  come.    Byron. 

Let  fate  frown  on,  so  we  part  not ; 
'Tis  life  where  thou  art,  'tis  death  where  thou  art  not. 

Moore. 


GERANIUM,  Oak. 

P.  quercifolium. 


Lady,  deign  to  smile.      Oh.  where  are  the  bright  gleaming  glances  I  miss  ? 

Anon. 

Do  not  blast  my  springing  hopes, 

That  thy  kind  hand  has  planted  in  my  soul !     .    Rowe. 

Nor  send  me  by  thy  frown  from  her  I  love, 

Distant  and  sad  ;  a  banish'd  man  to  rove.     .     .     Prior. 

What  dangerous  action,  stood  it  next  to  death, 
Would  I  not  undergo  for  one  calm  look  ?     .     .     Shaks. 

Loose,  now  and  then,  a  scatter'd  smile, 

And  that  I  '11  live  upon same. 

Lady,  I  pray  thee  give 
One  look  whereon  may  absence  live. 
One  word,  upon  my  ear  to  dwell, 
And  then,  sweet  lady  mine — farewell !     .     .      L.  E.  L. 


GERANIUM,  Rose. 

P.  capita  turn. 


Preference.  But  *hee  I  love,  by  love's  own  sweet  constraint.  Shaks. 

Admir'd  Miranda ! 
Indeed,  the  top  of  admiration  :  worth 
What 's  dearest  to  the  world !  full  many  a  lady 
I  have  eyed  with  best  regard  ;  and  many  a  time 
The  harmony  of  their  tongues  hath  into  bondage 
Brought  my  too  diligent  ears  ;  but  you — Oh,  you, 
So  perfect  and  so  peerless,  are  created 
Of  every  creature  best Shaks. 


-4- 


GERANIUM. 

(Continued.) 


And  preferred  in  his  heart  the  least  ringlet  that  curl'd 
Down  her  exquisite  neck,  to  the  throne  of  the  world. 

Moore. 


GERANIUM,  Silver  Leaved. 

P.  argentifolium. 


Recall.  Something  since  his  going  forth  is  thought  of, 

That  his  return  is  now  most  necessary.  .     .     . 


Shaks. 


How  angrily  I  taught  my  brow  to  frown, 

When  inward  joy  enforc'd  my  heart  to  smile. 

My  penance  is,  to  call    *     *    *    *    back, 

And  ask  remission  for  my  folly  past same. 

'Tis  not  in  language  to  impart 

The  secret  meltings  of  my  heart.    Addison's  Rosamond. 

Fain  would  my  tongue  his  griefs  appease, 

And  give  his  tortur'd  bosom  ease same. 


If  in  thy  soul  thou  'si  ever  felt 

Half  what  thy  lips  impassion'd  swore. 

If  thou  hast  known 
No  other  flame,  nor  falsely  thrown 
A  gem  away  that  thou  hast  sworn 
Should  ever  in  thy  heart  be  worn.    . 


Moore. 


Come,  and  remove  doubts  of  my  love; 
But,  if  thou  lov'st  me  not,  come  not  to  me. 
Oh  !  if  thy  vow  wearies  thee  now, 
Though  I  may  weep  for  thee,  never  come  here. 


Song. 


Answer* 

Doubt  thou  the  stars  are  fire  ; 
Doubt  that  the  sun  doth  move ; 
Doubt  truth  to  be  a  liar  ; 
But  never  doubt  I  love.    .    , 


Shaks. 


GILLY  FLOWER. 
Cheiranthus  incanus. 


Bonds  of  Affection. 


If  this,  ho  cried,  bondage  be, 
Who  would  wish  for  liberty  ? 


Moore. 


Oh !  who  the  exquisite  delights  can  tell, 
The  joy  which  mutual  confidence  imparts  ? 
Or  who  can  paint  the  charm  unspeakable, 
Which  links  in  tender  bands  two  faithful  hearts  ? 

Mrs.  Tighe's  Psyche. 


GILLY  FLOWER. 


(Continued.) 


Oh  !  the  tender  ties, 

Close  twisted  with  the  fibres  of  the  heart! 
Which  broken,  break  them,  and  drain  off  the  soul 
Of  human  joy,  and  make  it  pain  to  live.     .    .      Young. 

It  is  the  secret  sympathy, 

The  silver  link,  the  silken  tie, 

Which  heart  to  heart,  and  mind  to  mind, 

In  body  and  in  soul  can  bind , 


Scott. 


Oh !  if  there  be  an  elysium  on  earth, 

It  is  this — 

When  two  that  are  link'd  in  one  heavenly  tie, 
Love  on  through  all  ills,  and  love  on  till  they  die. 


Moore. 


GOLDEN  ROD; 

or,  Virgo  aurea. 
Solidaga. 


Encouragement.  Vivez  :  le  sceptre  d'or  que  vous  tend  cette  main, 

Pour  vous  de  ma  clemence  est  un  gage  certain. 

Racine's  Esther. 

Lady  Easy.  Pray,  when  you  found  you  could  not  like 
him  at  first,  why  did  you  ever  encourage  him  ? 

Lady  B.  Modish.  Why,  what  would  you  have  one 
do  ?  for  my  part  I  could  no  more  choose  a  man  by  my 
eye,  than  a  shoe :  one  must  draw  them  on  a  little  to 
see  if  they  are  right  to  one's  foot. 

Lady  E.  But  I  'd  no  more  fool  on  with  a  man  I  could 
not  like,  than  I  'd  wear  a  shoe  that  pinch'd  me. 

Lady  B.  Ay,  but  then  a  poor  wretch  tells  one,  he  '11 
widen  'em,  or  do  any  thing  ;  and  is  so  civil  and  silly, 
that  one  does  not  know  how  to  turn  such  a  trifle  as  a 
pair  of  shoes,  or  an  heart,  upon  a  fellow's  hands  again. 

Colley  Gibber. 

Answer. 


Quelle  voix  salutaire  ordonne  que  je  vive, 
Et  rappelle  en  mon  sein  mon  ame  fugitive  ? 

Racine's  Esther. 

That  word  beams  comfort  *  *  a  ray 

That  brightens  through  the  melancholy  gloom. 

JEschylus.     The  Persians. 

Blest  be  the  hour,  he  cried,  that  happy  hour, 

When  first  I  own'd  my  Delia's  power.     .     .     Lyttelton. 

He  found  her  kind,  and  soon  believed  her  true.       same. 


GRAPE,  Wild. 
Vitis  vinifera. 


Charity. 


In  faith  and  hope,  the  world  will  disagree, 

But  all  mankind's  concern  is  charity.     .     .    .       Pope. 

Uncultur'd,  unprun'd,  and  unguided  by  art, 
The  sweet  blossom'd  wild  grape  is  found ; 

As  charity  springs  from  the  untutor'd  heart, 

Embracing  all  objects  around B.  L.  L. 

No  piteous  object  could  she  see, 
But  her  soft  bosom  shar'd  the  wo, 

While  smiles  of  affability 
Endear'd  whatever  boon  she  might  bestow.     .      Shaw. 

Fond  to  oblige,  too  gentle  to  offend, 

Belov'd  by  all,  to  all  too  good  a  friend ; 

The  bad  she  censur'd,  by  her  life  alone, 

Blind  to  their  faults,  severe  upon  her  own. 

In  others'  griefs  a  tender  part  she  bore, 

And  all  the  needy  shar'd  her  little  store.     .     .      Anon, 


He  hath  a  tear  for  pity,  and  a  hand 
Open  as  day  for  melting  charity.    . 


Shaks. 


No  harsh  reflections  let  remembrance  raise, 

Forbear  to  mention  what  thou  canst  not  praise.    Prior. 

As  in  a  picture,  if  the  faults  abound, 

The  artist  veils  them  in  a  shade  profound ; 

So  in  the  errors  of  the  friends  we  see, 

Oh,  shroud  them  hi  the  shade  of  charity.      .    .    Anon. 


GRASS. 

Gramina. 


Submission. 


I,  as  a  child,  will  go  by  thy  direction* 


Shaks. 


My  voice  shall  sound  as  you  do  prompt  mine  ear  ; 

And  I  will  stoop  and  humble  my  intents 

To  your  well  practis'd,  wise  directions.     =    .    .    same. 

I  shall  the  effect  of  this  good  lesson  keep 

As  watchman  to  my  heart same. 


HAWTHORN. 

CratiEgus. 
A.  Mespilus. 


Hope. 


And  cheerful  hope,  so  oft  invok'd  in  vain, 

With  fairy  songs  shall  soothe  his  pensive  ear.     Collins. 

Hope  is  a  lover's  staff,  walk  hence  with  that, 

And  manage  it  against  despairing  thoughts.     .     Shaks. 


HAWTHORN. 

(Continued.) 


This  bud  of  love,  by  summer's  ripening  breath, 
May  prove  a  beauteous  flower,  when  next  we  meet. 

Shaks. 

Answer. 
I  feel  a  dawn  of  joy  break  in  upon  me!      .    .    Addison. 

Thy  words  have  darted  hope  into  my  soul, 

And  comfort  dawns  upon  me Southern. 

Oh !  speak  that  again ! 
Sweet  as  the  syren's  tongue  those  accents  fall.  Southey. 

Oh,  it  came  o'er  my  soul,  like  the  sweet  south 

That  breathes  upon  a  bank  of  violets, 

Stealing  and  giving  odour !        Shaks. 

'Twas  whisper'd  balm,  'twas  sunshine  spoken !     Moore. 

I  'd  live  years  of  grief  and  pain, 

To  have  my  long  sleep  of  sorrow  broken 

By  such  benign,  blessed  sounds,  again.      .    .    .    same. 


HEART'S  EASE,  Forget  me  not. 

Yellow  and  Purple. 

Viola  tricolor. 


Though  we  should  meet  no  more, 
Sweet  maid,  forget  me  not.    .     . 


Think  of  him  whose  prayer  shall  bless  thee ; 
Think  of  him  thy  love  had  bless'd  !     .     .    . 


Anon. 


Byron. 


He  ne'er  will  forget  the  short  vision  that  threw 
Its  enchantments  around  him,  while  lingering  with  you. 

Moore. 

t "  Forget  me  not,  when  others  gaze 
Enamoured  on  thee,  with  the  looks  of  praise. 
When  weary  leagues  between  us  both  are  cast, 
And  each  dull  hour  seems  heavier  than  the  last, 
Oh  !  then  forget  me  not !" 

Answer. 

Remember  thee,  and  all  thy  pains — 

And  all  thy  love  for  me  ! 
Yes !  while  a  breath,  a  pulse  remains, 

Will  I  remember  thee  ! Montgomery. 


Oh  !  think  of  her  who  holds  thee  dear  ! 
And  think  that  thou  art  all  to  her.     . 


Byron. 


May  joy  thy  steps  attend, 
And  mayest  thou  find  in  every  form  a  friend ; 
With  care  unsullied  be  thy  every  thought, 
And  in  thy  dreams  of  home,  forget  me  not!        .     Song. 


HEART'S  EASE, 

Purple. 

Viola  tricolor. 


You  occupy  my      Neither  rhyme  nor  reason  can  express  how  much  ! 


thoughts. 


Shaks. 

My  love  for  thee  is  such,  as  absence  ne'er  can  quell. 

Anon. 

Dwelling  deep  in  my  shut  and  silent  heart !  '       Byron. 

And  in 

My  soul,  which  flies  to  thee,  her  trust,  her  treasure — 
As  misers  to  their  gold,  while  others  rest.  Young. 

Whilst  love,  by  absence  fed,  without  control 
Tumultuous  rushes  on  his  soul. 

jEschylus1  Agamemnon. 


HEART'S  EASE,  Wild. 
Viola  tricolor. 


Love  in  idleness.      While  idly  I  stood  looking  on, 

I  found  the  effect  of  love  in  idleness  ! 


Shaks. 


I  looked,  and  looked,  and  still  with  new  delight ; 
Such  joy  my  soul,  such  pleasure  filled  my  sight. 

Dryden,  from  Chaucer. 


Helen,  I  love  thee  ;  by  my  life  I  do ; 

I  swear  by  that  which  I  will  lose  for  thee, 

To  prove  him  false,  that  says  I  love  thee  not. 


Shaks. 


And  all  the  faith,  the  virtue  of  my  heart, 
The  object,  and  the  pleasure  of  mine  eye, 

Is  on  Helena same. 

Whom  I  do  love,  and  will  do  to  my  death.  same. 


HELIOTROPE. 
Heliotropium. 


Devotion.  Gaze  on  my  cheek, 

And  let  its  hue  when  thou  art  near,  my  heart's  devotion 

speak, 

Look  on  my  dim  and  tearful  eye,  my  pale  and  rigid  brow, 
And  list  my  wild,  unbidden  sigh, — what  need  of  pledge 

or  vow.  Anon. 

I  behold  her 

With  adoration — feast  my  eye,  while  all 
My  other  senses  starve ;  and  oft  frequenting 
The  place  which  she  makes  happy  with  her  presence, 
I  never  yet  had  power,  with  tongue  or  pen, 
To  move  her  to  compassion,  or  make  known 
What  'tis  I  languish  for;  yet  I  must  gaze  still 
Though  it  increase  my  flame. 

Massinger's  Bashful  Lover. 


HELIOTROPE.  ^ne  was  a  f°rm  °f  ^e 

That  seen  became  a  part  of  sight ; 
(Continued.)  And  rose  where'er  I  turn'd  my  eye, 

The  morning  star  of  memory !        Byron. 

So  turns  the  needle  to  the  pole  it  loves 

With  fine  librations  quiv'ring  as  it  moves.         Darwin. 

Her  overpowering  presence  made  you  feel 

It  would  not  be  idolatry  to  kneel Byron. 

Answer. 

If  you  do  love  the  maid — 
Bend  thoughts  and  wits  to  achieve  her.     .    .     .  Shaks. 

jfc 
Cross  your  meek  arms,  incline  your  w/eathed  brows, 

And  win  the  goddess  with  unwearied  Vows.         Darwin. 


HELLEBORE.  Calumny.      Scandal.      Virtue  itself  'scapes  not  calumnious  stroke.          Shaks. 

Helleborus.  jjo  might  nor  greatness  in  mortality 

Can  censure  'scape;  back-wounding  calumny 

The  whitest  virtue  strikes ;  what  king  so  strong, 

Can  tie  the  gall  up  in  the  slanderous  tongue  ?          same. 

y 

On  eagle's  wings  immortal  scandals  fly ; 

While  virtuous  actions  are  but  born  to  die.          Harvey. 

X 

It  is  a  busy  talking  world, 

That  with  licentious  breath  blows  like  the  wind, 
As  freely  on  the  palace  as  the  cottage.      .    .    .  Rowe. 

Nor  do  they  trust  their  tongues  alone, 
But  speak  a  language  of  their  own ; 

****** 

Convey  a  libel  in  a  frown, 

And  wink  a  reputation  down Swift. 

We  must  not  stint 
Our  necessary  actions,  in  the  fear 
To  cope  malicious  censures Shaks. 

i  The  silence  often  of  pure  innocence 

Persuades,  when  speaking  fails same. 


HIBISCUS. 

Venetian  Mallow ; 
or,  Flower  of  an  hour. 

Hibiscus  trionum. 


Delicate  Beauty. 


Early,  bright,  transient,  chaste  as  morning  dew 

She  sparkled Young. 


Oh,  fairest  flower,  no  sooner  blown,  but  blasted. 

Beauty  is  but  a  vain,  a  fleeting  good, 
A  shining  gloss  that  fadeth  suddenly ; 

A  flow'r  that  dies  when  almost  in  the  bud  ; 
A  brittle  glass  that  breaketh  presently  ; 

A  fleeting  good,  a  gloss,  a  glass,  a  flow'r, 
Lost,  faded,  broken,  dead,  within  an  hour. 


Milton. 


Shaks. 


But  beauty  how  frail  and  how  fleeting, 

The  bloom  of  a  fine  summer's  day ; 
While  worth  in  the  mind  of  my  Phillis 

Will  flourish  without  a  decay Burns. 


What  's  beauty  ? — call  you  that  your  own, 
A  flower  that  fades  as  soon  as  blown  ?    .     . 

Who  trusts  beauty,  trusts  the  fading  rose. 


Gay. 


Youth  with  rapid  swiftness  flies, 

Beauty's  lustre  quickly  dies Horace. 


HOLLY. 
Ilex. 


Am  I  forgotten? 


And  can  thy  promise  to  be  mine, 

Be  e'er  forgot  ? 
If  pity  in  that  bosom  dwell, 
My  fears,  my  jealous  fears  dispel, 

Forget  me  not ! 

My  life  would  waste  in  grief,  sweet  maid, 
As  wounded  flow'rets  droop  and  fade, 

By  thee  forgot ! 

Thou  bad'st  me  thy  fond  vows  believe, 
And  can'st  thou  now  my  hopes  deceive, 

Sweet  maid ! 

Oh  !  think  upon  those  vows,  dear  maid, 
When  in  the  grove  at  eve  we  've  stray'd, 
Deceive  me  not,  my  lovely  maid.      .    . 


Oh  !  if  she  loves  as  I  have  loved, 
She  never  can  forget ! 


Bayly. 


Answer. 


Forget  thee !  no  never — among  the  light  hearted, 

Love  may  sink  to  decay,  when  the  fond  ones  are  parted 

But  affection  like  ours  is  too  deep  and  sublime, 

To  be  chill'd  in  its  ardour  by  absence  or  time. 

I  will  not  forget  thee,  till  life's  latest  day 

In  the  dark  night  of  death  shall  have  melted  away. 

Barbour, 


HOLLY. 


(Continued.) 


He  loves  me  still ! 
And  still  my  heart  shall  prove, 
How  well  it  can  those  vows  fulfil, 

Which  first  repaid  his  love  ! 


.     .    Anon. 


HOLLYHOCK. 


Ambition. 


Powerful  source  of  good  and  ill! Young. 

That  gallant  spirit  hath  aspired  the  clouds.      .    Shaks. 

Great  souls 

By  nature  half  divine,  soar  to  the  stars, 
And  hold  a  near  acquaintance  with  the  gods.        Rowe. 

Souls  truly  great  dart  forward  on  the  wing 

Of  just  ambition,  to  the  grand  result.     .    .     .     Young. 

Not  by  words 

Would  Theseus  be  distinguished,  but  by  deeds 
Illustrious Sophocles'  CEdipus  Coloneus. 


HOLLYHOCK,  White. 
A.R. 


Female  Ambition. 


Ambition  is  at  distance 
A  goodly  prospect,  tempting  to  the  view ; 
The  height  delights  us,  and  the  mountain  top 
Looks  beautiful,  because  'tis  nigh  to  heaven ; 
But  we  ne'er  think  how  sandy  's  the  foundation ; 
What  storms  will  batter,  and  what  tempests  shake  it. 
Otway^s  Venice  Preserved. 


The  heart  is  woman's  world — it  is  there  her  ambition 
strives  for  empire Sketch  Book. 


Oh  !  man  has  power  of  head  and  hand — 
Heart  is  woman's  dower 


L.  E.  L. 


Man's  love  is  of  man's  life  a  thing  apart, 

'Tis  woman's  whole  existence Byron. 

A  bold  ambition  prompts  my  heart, 

The  towering  hope  that  love  supplies, 

The  wish  in  blessing  to  be  blest. 

The  meaner  prospects  I  despise, 

That  wealth,  or  rank,  or  power  bestow.    .     Cartwright. 


HONESTY  ; 

or,  Satin  Flower. 
Lunar  ia. 


Sincerity.  On  my  heart  I  will  pledge  you  my  vow, 

And  they  both  must  be  broken  together.  »•> 

And  I  will  die  a  hundred  thousand  deaths, 
Ere  break  the  smallest  parcel  of  this  vow. 


Moore. 


Shaks. 


--*. 


HONESTY. 

(Continued.) 


Answer. 

Thy  words  convince  me ;  all  my  doubts  are  vanished. 
Mschylus1  Agamemnon. 

His  words  are  bonds,  his  oaths  are  oracles ; 
His  love  sincere,  his  thoughts  immaculate ; 
His  tears,  pure  messengers  sent  from  his  heart ; 
His  heart,  as  far  from  guile,  as  heaven  from  earth. 

Skaks. 

Truth  from  his  lips  prevailed  with  double  sway. 

Goldsmith. 


HONEY  FLOWER. 
Melianthus. 


Speak  /OH),  if  you        And  tell,  with  honey'd  words,  the  tale  of  love. 
speak  love. 


Darwin. 


How  silver  sweet  sound  lovers'  tongues  by  night, 
Like  softest  music  to  attending  ears.       .    .    .    S/taks. 

That  voice  was  wont  to  come  in  gentle  whispers, 
And  fill  my  ears  with  the  soft  breath  of  love.       Otway. 

'Twas  like  the  stealing 

Of  summer  wind  through  some  wreathed  shell; 
Each  secret  winding,  each  inmost  feeling 
Of  all  my  soul,  echo'd  to  its  spell !      ....    Moore. 

Ours,  too,  the  glance  none  saw  beside ; 

The  smile  none  else  might  understand ; 

The  whisper'd  thought  of  hearts  allied  ; 

The  pressure  of  the  thrilling  hand Byron. 


HONEY  FLOWER. 
Mourning  Bride. 
M. 


/  have  lost  all.  With  whom,  alas  !  I  fondly  hoped  to  know 

The  humble  walks  of  happiness  below.       .     .    Rogers. 

With  thee  were  the  dreams  of  my  earliest  love ; 
Every  thought  of  my  reason  was  thine.        .     .    Moore. 

My  soul's  first  idol — and  its  last same. 

Oh  grief,  beyond  all  other  griefs,  when  fate 

First  leaves  the  young  heart  lone  and  desolate, 

In  the  wide  world,  without  that  only  tie, 

For  which  it  lov'd  to  live,  or  fear'd  to  die  !  same. 


HONEYSUCKLE,  Coral. 
Lonicera  sempervirens. 


The  colour  of         The  day  too  short  for  my  distress ;  and  night, 
my  fate.  E'en  in  the  zenith  of  her  dark  domain, 

Is  sunshine,  to  the  colour  of  my  fate.     .    .    .     Younc 


•A- 


HONEYSUCKLE. 


(Continued.) 


Pierced  through  the  heart  with  your  stern  cruelty  ! 

Shaks. 

Still  thine  own,  its  life  retaineth — 

Still  must  mine  though  bleeding  beat !    .     .     .    Byron. 

I  with  grief  have  striven, 
But  find  with  each  receding  day, 
The  arrow  deeper  driven  ! C.  G. 

Deep  in  my  breast  the  rosy  tyrant  dwells, 
Piercing,  with  cruel  aim,  each  poison'd  dart — 

And  if  my  eye,  my  soul's  sad  torment  tells, 
It  speaks  the  secret  anguish  of  my  heart.  .    .     .    Song. 

Oh,  cruel !  will  no  pang  of  pity  pierce  that  heart ! 

Beattie. 


HONEYSUCKLE. 
Lonicera. 


1  would  not  answer 
hastily. 


We  would  consider  of  your  suit, 

And  come  some  other  time  to  know  our  mind.      Shaks, 

But  lest  you  should  not  understand  me  well, 

(And  yet,  a  maiden  hath  no  tongue  but  thought,) 

I  would  detain  you  here  some  month  or  two, 

Before  you  venture  for  me Shaks. 

If  you  oblige  me  suddenly  to  choose, 

My  choice  is  made — and  I  must  you  refuse.     Dryden. 

So  much  to  win,  so  much  to  lose — 

No  marvel  that  I  fear  to  choose L.  E.  L. 


HONEYSUCKLE,  Wild. 
Azalea. 


Generous  and  Yet,  let  me  say,  what  firmly  I  believe, 

devoted  love.       Love  can  be — ay,  and  is.     I  hold  that  love 
Which  chooseth  from  a  thousand  only  one 
To  be  the  object  of  that  tenderness 
Natural  to  every  heart ;  which  can  resign 
Its  own  best  happiness  for  one  dear  sake : 
Can  bear  with  absence ;  hath  no  part  in  hope, 
For  hope  is  somewhat  selfish,  love  is  not — 
And  doth  prefer  another  to  itself. 
Unchangeable  and  generous  :  what,  like  love, 
Can  melt  away  the  dross  of  worldliness ; 
Can  elevate,  refine,  and  make  the  heart 
Of  that  pure  gold  which  is  the  fitting  shrine 
For  fire,  as  sacred  as  e'er  came  from  heaven? 


L.  E.  L. 


Venetian  Bracelet. 


HONEYSUCKLE. 


(Continued.) 


Love,  which  nor  defeated  hope,  nor  baffled  wile, 

Could  render  sullen,  were  she  ne'er  to  smile, 

Nor  rage  could  fire,  nor  sickness  fret  to  vent 

On  her  one  murmur  of  his  discontent ; 

Which  still  would  meet  with  joy,  with  calmness  part, 

Lest  that  his  look  of  grief  should  reach  her  heart ; 

Which  nought  remov'd,  nor  threaten'd  to  remove. 

Byron. 


HOUSTONIA. 

Houstonia  coerulea. 


Content.  '  Contentment  gives  a  crown, 

Where  fortune  hath  deny'd  it.vj- 


Ford. 


My  crown  is  in  my  heart,  not  on  my  head  ; 

Nor  deck'd  with  diamonds,  and  Indian  stones, 

Nor  to  be  seen  :  my  crown  is  call'd  content  ; 

A  crown  it  is,  that  seldom  kings  enjoy.        .     .    Shaks. 

Tis  better  to  be  lowly  born, 
And  range  with  humble  livers,  in  content, 
Than  to  be  perk'd  up  in  a  glistering  grief, 
And  wear  a  golden  sorrow  ........    same. 


Honour  and  shame  from  no  condition  rise, 

Act  well  your  part,  there  all  the  honour  lies.  Pope. 

Much  will  always  wanting  be 
To  him  who  much  desires.     Thrice  happy  he 
To  whom  the  wise  indulgency  of  heaven, 
With  sparing  hand,  but  just  enough  has  given. 

Cowley. 

Who  lives  to  nature,  rarely  can  be  poor — 

Who  lives  to  fancy,  never  can  be  rich.    .     .     .    Young. 


HYACINTH. 

Hyacinthus. 


Jealousy. 


Love,  thou  knowest,  is  full  of  jealousy  ! 

In  gentle  love  the  sweetest  joys  we  find — 
Yet  even  those  joys,  dire  jealousy  molests, 
And  blackens  each  fair  image  in  our  breasts. 


Trifles  light  as  air 

Are,  to  the  jealous,  confirmation  strong 
As  proof  of  holy  writ 


Shaks. 


Lyttelton. 


A  slight,  a  single  glance, 
And  shot  at  random,  often  has  brought  home 
A  sudden  fever  to  the  throbbing  heart.     .    . 


Shaks. 


Young. 


HYACINTH. 

(Continued.) 


Oh,  how  with  one  trivial  glance, 
Might  she  ruin  the  peace  of  my  mind  ! 


Shenstone. 


HYDRANGER. 

Hydrangea  hortensis. 


A  boaster.  One  whom  the  music  of  his  own  vain  tongue 

Doth  ravish,  like  enchanting  harmony.    .    .    -    Shaks. 


JASMINE,  White. 
Jasminum  officinale. 


The  lad  of  all  sufficient  merit, 

With  modesty,  ne'er  damps  his  spirit. 


Gay. 


The  breath  of  others  raises  our  renown  ; 
Our  own,  as  surely  blows  the  pageant  down ; 
Take  up  no  more  than  you  by  worth  can  claim, 
Lest  soon  you  prove  a  bankrupt  in  your  fame. 

*  *  * 

Superior  honour,  when  assumed,  is  lost.      .    .     Young. 


Amabllity .  More  fair, 

More  sweet,  than  the  jassamine's  flower  ! 

What  are  pinks  in  a  morn  to  compare  ? 

What  is  eglantine  after  a  shower  ?     .     .     .    Shenstone. 


You  bear  a  gentle  mind,  and  heavenly 
Blessings  follow  such  creatures.      .     . 


Shaks. 


Not  only  good  and  kin  d, 
But  strong  and  elevated  was  her  mind.         .     Lyttelton. 


Still  o'er  my  life  preserve  thy  mild  control, 
Correct  my  views,  and  elevate  my  soul.     . 


And  love,  and  gentleness,  and  joy  impart.      .     Beattie. 

Answer. 

Not  to  delight  thine  eye  alone  design'd, 

But  touch,  and  calm,  and  elevate  the  mind.  Anon. 


JASMINE,  Yellow.        Grace  and  Elegance.     Graceful  to  sight,  and  elegant  to  thought. 

Bignonia  sempervirens.  Sweet  thoughts  are  mirror'd  in  her  face, 

And  every  motion  is  a  grace 


Young. 

C***e. 


Her  grace  of  motion,  and  of  look,  the  smooth 

And  swimming  majesty  of  step  and  tread, 

The  symmetry  of  form  and  feature,  set 

The  soul  afloat,  even  like  delicious  airs 

Of  flute  and  harp Milman. 


JASMINE,  Yellow. 

(Continued.) 


Grace  that  with  tenderness  and  sense  combin'd 

To  form  that  harmony  of  soul,  of  face, 
Where  beauty  shines  the  mirror  of  the  mind.       Mason. 

I  have  been  often  dazzled  by  the  blaze 

Of  sun-like  beauty  ;  but  till  now  ne'er  knew 

Perfected  loveliness ;  all  the  harmonies 

Of  form,  of  feature,  and  of  soul  displayed 

In  one  bright  creature,  as  in  thee,  my  love  ; 

In  whom,  beyond  compare,  her  fairest  work 

Maternal  nature  hath  summed  all  perfection.      S.  P.  C. 


ICE  PLANT. 


Mesembryanthemum  crystallihum. 


Rejected  addresses.      Alas!  my  lord,  if  talking  would  prevail, 
I  could  suggest  much  better  arguments, 


Than  those  regards  you  throw  away  on  me  ; 
Your  valour,  honour,  wisdom,  praised  by  all : 
But  bid  physicians  talk  our  veins  to  temper, 
And  with  an  argument  new-set  a  pulse  ; 
Then  think,  my  lord,  of  reasoning  into  love. 


Young. 


Love  is  not  in  our  power, 

Nay,  what  seems  stranger,  is  not  in  our  choice  : 
We  only  love,  where  fate  ordains  we  should, 
And  blindly  fond,  oft  slight  superior  merit.     .    Frowde. 

I  cannot  love  him  : 

Yet  I  suppose  him  virtuous,  know  him  noble, 
Of  great  estate,  of  fresh  and  stainless  youth, 
In  voices  well  divulg'd,  learn'd,  and  valiant, 
And  in  dimensions,  and  the  shape  of  nature, 
A  gracious  person :  but  yet  I  cannot  love  him.     Shaks. 


If  of  herself  she  will  not  love, 
Nothing  can  move  her.     .     . 


Sir  J.  Suckling. 


JONQUIL, 

Rush-leaved. 

Narcissus  Jonquilla. 


/  desire  a  return  of 
affection. 


Dissolve  me  into  ecstasies, 

And  bring  all  heaven  before  mine  eyes  !      .     .    Milton. 

The  joy  most  like  divine 
Of  all  I  ever  dreamt  or  knew, 
To  see  thee,  hear  thee,  call  thee  mine  !    .    .     .    Moore. 


IRIS. 

Iris. 


Tell  thyself  what  I  would  say — 

Thou  know'st  it,  and  I  feel  too  much  to  pray.    Dryden. 


IRIS. 


(Continued.) 


She  knew  she  was  by  him  belov'd — she  knew 

(For  quickly  comes  such  knowledge)  that  his  heart 

Was  darken'd  with  her  shadow,  and  she  saw 

That  he  was  wretched,  but  she  saw  not  all.     .     Byron. 

A  lover's  look 

Is  his  heart's  Mercury.    O  !  the  eye's  eloquence, 
Twin-born  with  thought,  outstrips  the  tardy  voice, 
Far  swifter  than  the  nimble  lightning's  flash, 
The  sluggish  thunder-peal  that  follows  it. 

George  Coleman's  Iron  Chest. 


IVY. 

Hedera. 


Matrimony.  I  have  found 

One  true  companion,  one  dear  soul  is  mine, 
Whose  converse  still  doth  soothe,  arouse,  refine. 

Howitt. 

One  sacred  oath  has  tied  our  loves  !     .     .     .     .    Prior. 

Say,  shall  I  love  the  fading  beauty  less, 
Whose  spring-tide  radiance  has  been  wholly  mine  ? 
No — come  what  will,  thy  steadfast  truth  I  '11  bless  ; 
In  youth,  in  age,  thine  own — for  ever  thine. 

A.  A.  Watts. 


Blest  in  a  wife  whose  beauty,  though  so  rare, 
Is  the  least  grace  of  all  that  round  her  wait. 


Edwards. 


The  pure,  open,  prosperous  love, 
That,  pledg'd  on  earth,  and  seal'd  above, 
Grows  in  the  world's  approving  eyes, 
In  friendship's  smile,  and  home's  caress ; 
Collecting  all  the  heart's  sweet  ties 
Into  one  knot  of  happiness 


Moore. 


LABURNUMV 
Cytisus  laburnum. 


Pensive  beauty.  Fair  was  her  form ;  but  who  can  hope  to  trace 

The  pensive  softness  of  her  angel  face?     .     .       Rogers. 

When  pensive,  it  seem'd  as  if  that  very  grace, 
That  charm  of  all  others,  was  born  with  her  face. 

Moore. 

Pensive  grace 

Was  in  her  every  motion,  and  her  look 
Had  something  sacred  in  it,  that  declared 
How  pure  the  spirit  in  that  form  enshrined, 
Like  light  that  dwelleth  in  the  diamond  gem.     S.  P.  C. 


LABURNUM. 

(Continued.) 


There  was  a  soft  and  pensive  grace, 
A  cast  of  thought  upon  her  face, 
That  suited  well  the  forehead  high, 
The  eye-lash  dark,  and  downcast  eye ; 
The  mild  expression  spoke  a  mind 
In  duty  firm,  composed,  resigned.     .     . 


Scott. 


LADY'S  SLIPPFR. 
Cypripedium. 


Capricious  beauty. 


Fair  Cypripedia,  with  successful  guile, 

Knits  her  smooth  brow,  extinguishes  her  smile. 

Darwin. 

When  angry — for  ev'n  in  the  tranquillest  climes, 
Light  breezes  will  ruffle  the  blossoms  sometimes — 
The  short  passing  anger  but  seem'd  to  awaken 
New  beauty,  like  flowers  that  are  sweetest  when  shaken. 

Moore. 

Say  that  she  frown  ;  I  '11  say  she  looks  as  clear 

As  morning  roses  newly  wash'd  in  dew.  .     .     .    Shaks. 


No,  not  the  bow  which  so  adorns  the  skies, 
So  glorious  is,  or  boasts  so  many  dyes.  .    . 


Waller. 


She  will,  and  she  will  not,  she  grants,  denies, 
Consents,  retracts,  advances,  and  then  flies.     Granville. 

Come,  come,  't  will  not  do !  put  that  purling  brow  down ; 
You  can't,  for  the  soul  of  you,  learn  how  to  frown. 

H.  K.  White. 


LAGERSTRJEMIA,  Indian. 

-L.  Indica. 


Eloquence.      v  Every  word  he  speaks  is  is  a  syren's  note 
To  draw  the  careless  hearen  J  .    .     .    . 


Beaumont. 


Celestial  raptures  flowed  in  every  word, 

In  every  motion,  kindling  warmth  divine, 

To  seize  who  listen'd Akenside. 

Whose  words  all  ears  took  captive Shaks. 

With  an  eloquence — not  like  those  rills  from  a  height 
Which  sparkle,  and  foam,  and  in  vapour  are  o'er, 

But  a  current  that  works  out  its  way  into  light, 
Through  the  filtering  recesses  of  thought  and  of  lore. 

Moore. 


So  sweet  and  voluble  is  his  discourse, 
That  aged  ears  play  truant  at  his  tales, 
And  younger  hearings  are  quite  ravished. 


Shaks. 


LAGERSTRJEMIA. 

(Continued.) 


When  Minerva  rose, 
From  her  sweet  lips  smooth  elocution  flows.  Gay. 

Gaze  as  we  learn,  and  as  we  listen,  love.        .     Darwin. 

Whose  gentle  lips  persuade  without  a  word, 
Whose  words,  e'en  when  unmeaning,  are  ador'd. 

Moore. 

'Tis  not  the  powerful  arm, 
But  soft  enchanting  tongue,  that  governs  all. 

Sophocles'  Philoctetes. 

To  listen  to  her,  is  to  seem  to  wander 

In  some  enchanted  labyrinth  of  romance, 

Whence  nothing  but  the  lovely  fairy's  will 

That  wove  the  spell,  can  extricate  the  wanderer.    Scott. 


LARKSPUR. 

Delphinium. 


Lightness.  For  unto  knight  there  is  no  greater  shame, 

Than  lightness,  and  inconstancy  in  love.     .    .    Spencer. 

Men's  fancies  are  more  giddy  and  unfirm, 
More  longing,  wavering,  sooner  lost  and  won, 

Than  women's  are.     .     .     .    Shaks. 

He  wears  his  faith  but  as  the  fashion  of  his  hat, 

It  ever  changeth  with  the  next  block same. 

No  woman  can  endure  a  recreant  knight.     .     .   Dryden. 

They  know  how  fickle  common  lovers  are  ; 

Their  oaths,  and  vows,  are  cautiously  believed, 

For  few  there  are,  but  have  been  once  deceived,      same. 


LARKSPUR,  Pink. 
D. 


Fickleness.  Ladies  whose  love  is  constant  as  the  wind.      .      Young. 

We  in  vain  the  fickle  sex  pursue, 

Who  change  the  constant  lover  for  the  new.          Prior. 

Of  constancy  no  rootinfix'd, 

That  either  they  love  nothing,  or  not  long.  same. 

Inconstant  as  the  passing  wind, 

As  winter's  dreary  frost  unkind  ; 

To  fix  her,  'twere  a  task  as  vain 

To  count  the  April  drops  of  rain Smollet. 

She  was  fair — and  my  passion  begun ; 
She  smiled — and  I  could  not  but  love ; 
She  is  faithless — and  I  am  undone.  .  .  .  Shcnstone. 


LARKSPUR. 


Answer. 


(Continued.) 


Lightly  thou  say'st  that  woman's  love  is  false, 

The  thought  is  falser  far — 

For  some  of  them  are  true  as  martyrs'  legends, 

As  full  of  suffering  faith,  of  burning  love, 

Of  high  devotion — worthier  of  heaven  than  earth ; 

O,  I  do  know  a  tale  ! Maturin. 


LAUREL. 
Kalmia. 


Treachery. 


goodly  outside  falsehood  hath  !    .     .    Shaks. 


What  is  man's  love  ?    His  vows  are  broke, 

Even  while  his  parting  kiss  is  warm.  1.     .    .    Halleck. 

He  is  composed  and  fram'd  of  treachery  !    .     .     Shaks. 

Stealing  her  soul  with  many  vows  of  faith, 

And  ne'er  a  true  one  ! same. 


Vanish'd  is  the  faith  of  oaths. 


Euripides'  Medea. 


Oh  !  colder  than  the  wind  that  freezes 
Founts,  that  but  now  in  sunshine  play'd, 

Is  that  congealing  pang  which  seizes 
The  trusting  bosom  when  betray'd.      . 


Moore. 


*      *       *      *      He  in  whom 
My  heart  had  treasur'd  all  its  boast  and  pride, 
Proves  faithless  ........     Euripides'  Medea. 

And  all  this,  too,  from  him  whom  once  I  deemed 
Stranger  to  fraud,  nor  capable  of  ill. 

•    Sophocles1  Philoctetes. 

Then  fare-thee-well  —  I  'd  rather  make 

My  bower  upon  some  icy  lake, 

When  thawing  suns  begin  to  shine, 

Than  trust  to  love  so  false  as  thine  .....     Moore. 


LAURUSTINUS. 
Viburnum  tinus. 


A  token.  -^  laurustinus  bear  in  blossom  to  my  love.    .     .    Anon. 

And  mark  me  while  I  vow, 

By  all  this  heart  hath  borne  for  thee,  by  all  it  suffers  now, 
In  grief,  or  gladness,  hope,  despair,  in  bliss,  or  misery, 
I  '11  be,  what  I  have  ever  been,  to  thee,  to  only  thee  ! 

Moore. 

Accept  of  this ;  and  could  I  add  beside 

What  wealth  the  rich  Peruvian  mountains  hide ; 

If  all  the  gems  in  eastern  rocks  were  mine, 

On  thee  alone  their  glittering  pride  should  shine. 

Lyttelton. 


LAURUSTINUS. 

(Continued.) 


She  knew  whose  hand  had  gathered  them,  she  knew 
Whose  sigh  and  touch  were  on  their  scent  and  hue. 

Pickersgill. 


LAVENDER. 
Lavandula. 


Distrust. 


Trust  him  not ;  his  words,  though  sweet, 

Seldom  with  his  heart  do  meet : 

All  his  practice  is  deceit. B.  Jonson. 

The  language  that  flows  from  the  heart, 

Is  a  stranger  to  Paridel's  tongue.       .     .     .    Shenstone. 

'Tis  his  with  mock  passion  to  glow, 

'Tis  his,  with  smooth  tales,  to  unfold, 

How  her  face  is  as  bright  as  the  snow, 

And  her  bosom,  be  sure,  is  as  cold same. 


LEMON  BLOSSOM. 

Citrus  limon. 


Discretion.  And  from  the  precipice's  brink  retire, 

Afraid  to  venture  on  so  large  a  leap.     .     .     .    Dryden. 

Press  me  not,  'beseech  you  so ; — 

There  is  no  tongue  that  moves,  none,  none  i'  th'  world, 

So  soon  as  yours,  could  win  me Shaks, 

His  air,  his  voice,  his  looks,  and  honest  soul, 

Speak  all  too  movingly  in  his  behalf, 

I  dare  not  trust  myself  to  hear  him  talk.       .     Addison. 

Our  separate  fortune 
Shall  keep  us  both  the  safer same. 

She  will  not  stay  the  siege  of  loving  terms, 

Nor  bide  the  encounter  of  assailing  eyes.       .     .     same. 

Prudent,  lest  from  her  resolution  rais'd.      .     .     Milton. 
So  far  hath  discretion  fought  with  nature.    .     .    Shaks. 


LICHEN. 
Tree  Moss. 


Solitude.  Wisdom's  self 

Oft  seeks  to  sweet  retired  solitude  ; 
Where,  with  her  best  nurse,  contemplation, 
She  plumes  her  feathers,  and  lets  grow  her  wings, 
That  in  the  various  bustle  of  resort 
Were  all  too  ruffled,  and  sometimes  impair'd. 

Milton. 


LICHEN. 

(Continued.) 


No,  'tis  not  here  that  solitude  is  known, 

Through  the  wide  world  he  only  is  alone 

Who  lives  not  for  another Rogers. 

There  is  a  pleasure  in  the  pathless  woods, 

There  is  a  rapture  in  the  lonely  shore, 

There  is  society,  where  none  intrudes, 

By  the  deep  sea,  and  music  in  its  roar. 

I  love  not  man  the  less,  but  nature  more, 

From  these  our  interviews,  in  which  I  steal 

From  all  I  may  be,  or  have  been  before, 

To  mingle  with  the  universe,  and  feel 

What  I  can  ne'er  express,  yet  cannot  all  conceal. 

Byron. 

If  from  society  we  learn  to  live, 
'Tis  solitude  should  teach  us  how  to  die  ; 
It  hath  no  flatterers  ;  vanity  can  give 
No  hollow  aid  ;  alone — man  with  his  God  must  strive. 

same. 


LILAC,  Purple. 

Syringa. 


The  first  emotions 
of  love. 


Methinks  I  feel  this  youth's  perfections 
Steal  with  an  invisible  and  subtle  stealth, 
To  creep  in  at  mine  eyes.    Well,  let  it  be  ! 


Shaks. 


Love,  where  he  gets  possession,  his  first  work 

Is  to  dig  deep  within  a  heart,  and  there 

Lie  hid,  and,  like  a  miser  in  the  dark, 

To  feast  alone Dryden. 

The  yielding  smile  that 's  half  supprest, 

The  short  quick  breath,  the  trembling  tear, 

The  swell  tumultuous  of  the  breast, 

In  Armine's  favour  all  appear Cartwright. 


How  beautiful  she  look'd  !  her  conscious  heart 
Glow'd  in  her  cheek,  and  yet  she  felt  no  wrong. 


Byron. 


LILAC,  White. 

Syringa  vulgaris. 


Youth.  A  lovely  being  scarcely  form'd  or  moulded, 

A  rose  with  all  its  sweetest  leaves  yet  folded.      Byron. 

Now  is  the  morning  of  thy  years, 

And  all  is  joy  before  thee  ! B.  Chester. 


Glad  spirits  sparkled  in  Narcissa's  eyes, 

And  made  youth  younger,  and  taught  life  to  live. 


Young. 


LILAC. 

(Continued.) 


Thou  art  now  in  thy  dreaming  time  : 
The  green  leaves  on  the  bough ; 

The  sun-shine  turning  them  to  gold 
Are  pleasures  to  thee  now.      .    . 


L.  E.  L. 


To  a  young  Poetess. 


Thy  hands  are  fill'd  with  early  flowers, 

Thy  step  is  on  the  wind ; 
The  innocent  and  keen  delight 

Of  youth  is  on  thy  mind  ; 
That  glad  fresh  feeling  that  bestows 
Itself  the  pleasure  which  it  knows, 

The  pure,  the  undefined 


LILY,  White. 

Lilium  candidum. 


Purity  and  sweetness. 


His  years  but  young,  but  his  experience  old ; 
His  head  unmellow'd,  but  his  judgment  ripe. 


Shaks. 


Though  .few  his  years,  the  west  already  knows 
Young  Azim's  fame Moore. 


Every  thing  about  her  resembles  the  purity  of  her  soul. 

Law. 

Around  her  shone 

The  light  of  love,  the  purity  of  grace, 
The  mind,  the  music  breathing  from  her  face  ; 
The  heart  whose  softness  harmonized  the  whole ; 
And,  oh  !  that  eye  was  in  itself  a  soul !     .     .     .    Byron. 

Her  form  was  fresher  than  the  morning  rose, 

When  the  dew  wets  its  leaves ;  unstain'd  and  pure 

As  is  the  lily,  or  the  mountain  snow.      .    .        Thomson. 


I  saw  her  coral  lips  to  move, 
And  with  her  breath  she  did  perfume  the  air. 
Sacred,  and  sweet,  was  all  I  saw  in  her.     .     . 


Shaks. 


With  looks  too  bright  and  beautiful  for  such  a  world  as 
this Author  of  Sol.  Hours. 


Innocence  shines  in  the  lily's  bell, 
Pure  as  a  heart  in  its  native  heaven. 


.   Percival. 


Ye  lilies,  bathed  in  morning  dew, 

Of  purity,  and  innocence  renew 

Each  lovely  thought Bernard  Barton. 


LILY,  Yellow. 

Lilium  lutea. 


Falsehood.  And  yet  he  falsely  said  he  was  in  love. 

He  's  light  as  air, 
False  as  the  fowler's  artful  snare.     .    . 


Dryden. 


Smollet. 


And  days  may  come,  thou  false  one,  yet, 

*         *         *         * 

When  thou  wilt  call  with  vain  regret, 
On  her  thou  'st  lost  for  ever. 

On  her,  who  in  thy  fortune's  fall, 
With  smiles  had  still  receiv'd  thee, 

And  gladly  died  to  prove  thee  all 

Her  fancy  first  believ'd  thee.       .     .     , 


Moore. 


LILY  OF  THE  VALLEY. 

Convallaria. 


Delicacy.  With  secret  sighs  the  virgin  lily  droops.    .     .   Darwin. 

*       *      *      *      Like  the  lily, 
That  once  was  mistress  of  the  field,  and  flourished, 
I  '11  hang  my  head  and  perish Shake. 

She  never  told  her  love, 
But  let  concealment,  like  a  worm  i'  the  bud, 
Feed  on  her  damask  cheek ;  she  pin'd  in  thought. 


Her  eye  may  grow  dim,  and  her  cheek  may  grow  pale, 
But  tell  they  not  both  the  same  fond  tale  ? 
Love's  lights  have  fled  from  her  eye  and  her  cheek 
To  burn  and  die  on  the  heart  which  they  seek. 

L.  E.  L. 

And  had  he  not  long  read 
The  heart's  hush'd  secret,  in  the  soft  dark  eye 
Lighted  at  his  approach,  and  on  the  cheek, 
Colouring  all  crimson  at  his  lightest  look  ?     .     .    same. 

What  is  the  tale  that  I  would  tell  ?  not  one 

Of  strange  adventure,  but  a  common  tale 

Of  woman's  wretchedness ;  one  to  be  read 

Daily,  in  many  a  young  and  blighted  heart.       .     same. 

The  wounded  dove,  when  dying,  feels  the  smart, 

Closing  her  wings,  conceals  the  cruel  dart  : 

So  love,  abandon'd,  flies  from  every  eye, 

Conceals  its  woes,  in  solitude  to  die.       .     .     .     Irving. 


LOCOST, 

The  green  leaves. 

Robinia. 
Pseudo  Acacia,. 


Affection  beyond  the    In  his  grave  assure  thyself  my  love  is  buried.       Skaks. 


grave. 


Time  tempers  love,  but  not  removes, 
More  hallow'd  when  its  hope  is  fled  ; 
Oh  !  what  are  thousand  living  loves, 
To  that  which  cannot  quit  the  dead. 

When  true  hearts  are  wither'd, 

And  fond  ones  are  flown, 

Oh,  who  would  inhabit 

This  bleak  world  alone  ?     .     .     .     . 


.    .     Byron. 


Moore. 


When  the  stem  dies,  the  leaf  that  grew 

Out  of  its  heart,  must  perish  too same. 

The  tear  that  is  shed,  though  in  secret  it  roll, 

Shall  long  keep  his  memory  green  in  my  soul.         same. 


Sorrow  ends  not  when  it  seemeth  done. 


Skaks. 


LOTOS  FLOWER. 
The  Water  Lotos. 


Estranged  love.        Hero  the  poor  lover  than  has  long  endured 

Some  proud  nymph's  scorn,  of  his  fond  passion  cured. 

Sliaks. 

This  weak  impress  of  love,  is  as  a  figure 
Trenched  in  ice  ;  which,  with  an  hour's  heat, 
Dissolves  to  water,  and  doth  lose  his  form.     .     .     same. 

At  first  I  did  adore  a  twinkling  star, 

But  now  I  worship  a  celestial  sun. 

TJnheedful  vows  may  hecdfully  be  broken.     .     .     same. 

So  the  remembrance  of  my  former  love 

Is  by  a  newer  object  quite  forgotten same. 


Answer. 
Some  witchery  seems  to  await  you !     .     .     .     .    Moore. 

Are  you  not  Lysander  ? 
I  am  as  fair  now,  as  I  was  erewhile.        .     .     .    Shaks. 

Read  over  Julia's  heart,  thy  first  best  love, 
For  whose  dear  sake  thou  didst  then  rend  thy  faith 
Into  a  thousand  oaths  :  and  all  those  oaths 
Descended  into  perjury same. 

She  dreams  of  him  that  has  forgot  her  love.      .    same. 

But  you, 
"  In  all,  save  form  alone,  how  changed  !"      .     .    Byron. 


LOTOS  FLOWER. 

(Continued.) 


Lovers,  and  madmen,  have  such  scathing  brains, 

Such  shaping  fantasies,  that  apprehend 

More  than  cool  reason  ever  comprehends.    .     .    Shaks. 

To  nurse  strange  doubts,  and  groundless  fears. 

Mrs.  Barbauld. 


LOTOS  LEAF. 

Lotos. 


Recantation.  You  well  may  ask— 

"  Wherefore  doth  Lysander 
Deny  your  love,  so  rich  within  his  soul?"   .     .     Shaks. 

Have  I  not  managed  my  contrivance  well 

To  try  your  love,  and  make  you  doubt  of  mine  ? 

Dryden. 

Hence  then  for  ever  from  my  Emma's  breast, 
(That  heaven  of  softness,  and  that  seat  of  rest,) 
Ye  doubts  and  fears,  and  all  that  know  to  move 
Tormenting  grief,  and  all  that  trouble  love, 
Scatter'd  by  winds  recede,  and  wild  in  forests  rove. 

Prior. 

Hear,  solemn  Jove !  and,  conscious  Venus,  hear  ! 
And  thou,  bright  maid,  believe  me  whilst  1  swear ; 
No  time,  no  change,  no  future  flame,  shall  move 
The  well-plac'd  basis  of  my  lasting  love.       .     .     same. 

And  here  to  pledge  my  vow,  I  give  my  hand.        Shaks. 


LOVE  IN-A-MIST. 
Nigella  damascena. 


Perplexity.  Love  in  these  labyrinths  his  slave  detains !     .     .    Pope. 

Perplexity  and  doubt  distract  rny  thoughts. 

JEschylus1  Agamemnon. 

\   In  such  a  maze  of  love  my  thoughts  are  lost.   ) 

Addwori's  Ovid. 

{     Long,  long  held  by  a  spell  too  dear, 
Thy  smile  has  kept  thy  loiterer  here. 
Almost  it  seem'd  enough  for  me, 
Of  heaven,  to  only  gaze  on  thee ; 
But  love  lights  high  and  gallant  thought, 
A  rich  prize  must  be  dearly  bought.     .     .     .     L.  E.  L. 

And  must  I  go — "  Without  the  hope 

My  foolish  heart  still  clings  to,  though  that  hope 

Is  like  the  opiate  which  may  lull  awhile, 

Then  wake  to  double  torture  ?"    .  '.    .    .    .    .    same. 


LOVE  IN-A-MIST. 

(Continued.) 


Without  a  word,  a  look  of  tenderness, 

To  be  called  up,  when,  in  his  lonely  hours 

He  would  indulge  in  weeping Rogers. 


LOVE  LIES-A-BLEED1NG. 
Amaranthus  caudatus. 


Hopeless,  not         The  dead  will  soon  forget,  and  I 
heartless.  Shall  soon  be  with  the  dead. 


Anon. 


I  had  not  lived  till  now,  could  sorrow  kill ! 
Death  shuns  the  wretch,  who  fain  the  blow  would  meet. 

Byron. 

Ambition's  dreams  I  've  seen  depart ; 

***** 

Have  felt  of  love  the  venom'd  dart 
When  hope  has  flown 


Scott. 


Oh !  had  we  never,  never  met, 

Or  could  this  heart  e'en  now  forget 

How  link'd,  how  bless'd  we  might  have  been, 

Had  fate  not  frown'd  so  dark  between.     .     .     .    Moore. 

Now  farewell ! 
Thou  that  hast  been,  what  words  may  never  tell. 

Hemans. 


His  friends  beheld,  and  pitied  him  in  vain, 
For  what  relief  can  ease  a  lover's  pain  ?     . 


Darwin. 


LUPINE. 

Lupinus. 


Imagination.  Where  beams  of  warm  imagination  play.      .     , 

And  the  wild  sparkle  of  his  eye  seem'd  caught 
From  high,  and  lighten'd  with  electric  thought. 


Pope. 


Byron. 
O'er  all  bright  fancy's  beamy  radiance  shone.     Ogilvie. 

Bright-ey'd  fancy  hov'ring  o'er, 
Scatters  from  her  pictur'd  urn, 
Thoughts  that  breathe,  and  words  that  burn.  .  Gray. 


Do  what  he  will,  he  cannot  realize 
Half  he  conceives — the  glorious  vision  flies. 
Go  where  he  may,  he  cannot  hope  to  find 
The  truth,  the  beauty,  pictured  in  his  mind. 


But  beyond 

This  energy  of  truth,  whose  dictates  bind 
Assenting  reason,  the  benignant  sire, 
To  deck  the  honour'd  paths  of  just  and  good, 
Has  added  bright  imagination's  ray.  .     .     .     Akenside. 


MAGNOLIA,  Swamp. 

Magnolia  glauca. 


Perseverance.  Urge  your  success,  deserve  a  lasting  name, 

She  '11  crown  a  grateful  and  a  constant  flame. 

Roscommon- 

Glory,  like  time,  progression  does  require ; 
When  it  does  cease  t'  advance,  it  does  expire. 

Earl  of  Orrery. 

Perseverance,  dear  my  lord, 
Keeps  honour  bright.     To  have  done,  is  to  hang 
Quite  out  of  fashion,  like  a  rusty  nail 
In  monumental  mockery Shaks. 

The  life  of  fame  is  action,  understood 

That  action  must  be  virtuous,  great,  and  good. 

Johnson's  Clorinda. 

This,  in  the  presage  of  my  thoughts  that  flow 

Benevolent  to  thee,  have  I  proposed ; 

And  all,  we  trust,  shall  be  successful  to  thee. 

AZschylus.     The  Persians. 


MARIGOLD. 

Calendula. 


Cruelty,  Love  make  his  heart  of  flint  whom  thou  shalt  love, 

And  may  thy  fervour,  like  my  passion,  be 
Plac'd  in  contempt !    Farewell,  fair  cruelty !    .     Shaks. 


MARVEL  OF  PERU. 
Mirabilis. 


And  thou,  forsworn,  thou,  cruel  as  thou  art, 

If  Emma's  image  ever  touch'd  thy  heart, 

Thou  sure  must  give  one  thought,  and  drop  a  tear 

To  her  whom  love  abandoned  to  despair.       .     .    Prior. 


Timidity.  She  listen'd  with  a  flitting  blush, 

With  downcast  eyes,  and  modest  grace, 
For  well  she  knew  I  could  not  choose 
But  gaze  upon  her  face 


With  easy  smiles  dispell'd  the  silent  fear 
That  durst  not  tell  me  what  I  died  to  hear. 


Coleridge. 


Prior. 


For  she  was  timid  as  the  wintry  flower, 
That,  whiter  than  the  snow  it  blooms  among, 
Droops  its  fair  head,  submissive  to  the  power 
Of  every  angry  blast  which  sweeps  along. 

Mrs.  Tighe's  Psyche. 


He  is  one,  with 
More  of  soul  in  his  face,  than  words  on  his  tongue. 

Wordsworth. 


MARVEL  OF  PERU. 

(Continued) 


Silent  when  glad ;  affectionate,  though  shy.    .     Beattie. 


The  half  suppress'd  glance  of  an  eye  admiring, 

The  tremulous  rays  of  an  evening  sky, 

The  startled  fawn  from  the  hunter  retiring, 

The  fluttering  light  of  a  taper  expiring — 

Apt  emblems  afford  of  timidity E***t. 


MEADOW  SAFFRON. 

Colchicum  autumnal!. 


My  best  days  are         'Tis  greatly  wise  to  know  before  we  're  told, 

past.  The  melancholy  news  that  we  grow  old.     .     .     Young, 

Nought  treads  so  silent  as  the  foot  of  time ; 

Hence  we  mistake  our  autumn  for  our  prime.    .     same. 

We  see  time's  furrows  on  another's  brow.      .     .    same. 
Peace  and  esteem  is  all  that  age  can  boast.   .     .     same. 

'Tis  greatly  wise  to  talk  with  our  past  hours, 
And  ask  them  what  report  they  bore  to  heaven ; 
And  how  they  might  have  borne  more  welcome  news. 
Their  answers  form  what  men  experience  call.        same. 

Age  should 

Walk  thoughtful  on  the  silent,  solemn  shore 
Of  that  vast  ocean  it  must  sail  so  soon, 
And  put  good  works  on  board,  and  wait  the  wind 
That  shortly  blows  us  into  worlds  unknown.        .     same. 


MIGNONETTE. 

Reseda  odorata. 


Your  qualities  surpass      Charms  strike  the  sight,  but  merit  wins  the  soul. 
your  loveliness.  Pope. 

Some  forms,  though  bright,  no  mortal  man  can  bear, 
Some,  none  resist,  though  not  exceeding  fair.       Young. 

Beauty  dwells 

There  most  conspicuous,  even  in  outward  shape, 
Where  dawns  the  high  expression  of  a  mind. 

Akenside. 

Mind,  mind  alone,  (bear  witness,  earth  and  heaven !) 
The  living  fountains  in  itself  contains 
•    Of  beauteous  and  sublime  :  here  hand  in  hand, 
Sit  paramount  the  graces  :  here  enthron'd, 
Celestial  Venus,  with  divinest  airs, 
Invites  the  soul  to  never-fading  joy same. 


MIGNONETTE. 


(Continued.) 


There  was  that  in  her  dark,  bright,  joyous  eyes, 

And  in  the  expression  of  her  speaking  face, 

Where,  'mid  the  graces,  dwelt  perpetual  smiles — 

And  the  pure  light  that  evermore  pours  out 

From  the  mind's  fountain — that  demanded  more 

Than  the  cold  name  of  beauty,  which  may  be 

The  attribute  of  beings  whom  no  ray 

Of  intellect  illumines,  and  no  charm 

Of  loveliness  invests S.  P.  C. 

Such  charms  would  fix 
Inconstancy  itself:  her  unmixed  virtues, 
Ev'n  if  her  beauty  fail'd,  would  soon  subdue 
The  rebel  heart,  and  you  would  learn  to  love  her. 

Dr.  Thomas  Franklin's  Earl  of  Warwick. 


MIMOSA. 
Sensitive  Plant. 
Mimosa. 


Sensitiveness. 


I  cannot  bear  that  alter'd  brow  ! 


My  misery  can  scarce  be  more  complete  ! 

Oh  !  would  it  were  my  lot, 
To  be  forgetful,  as  I  am  forgot !     .     .     . 


.    F. 

Byron. 


Upon  my  lute  there  is  one  string 
Broken  ; — the  chords  were  drawn  too  fast ; 
My  heart  is  like  that  string — it  tried 
Too  much,  and  snapt  in  twain  at  last.     . 


Anon. 


MOCK  ORANGE.  Counterfeit. 

Philadelphus  coronarius. 


You  have  beguil'd  me  with  a  counterfeit, 
*  *  *  which  being  touch'd  and  tried, 
Proves  valueless :  you  are  forsworn,  forsworn. 

Idiots  only  may  be  cozen'd  twice ; 

Once  warn'd,  is  well  bewar'd 


Now  my  love  is  thaw'd ; 
Which,  like  a  waxen  image  'gainst  a  fire, 
Bears  no  impression  of  the  thing  it  was. 


Shake. 


Dryden. 


Shaks. 


Moss. 

Musci. 


Recluse.  You  subject  yourself  to  solitariness,  the  sly  enemy  that 

doth  most  separate  man  from  well  doing.         Sidney. 


In  solitude 

What  happiness  ?  Who  can  enjoy  alone, 
Or,  if  enjoying,  what  contentment  find  ? 


Milton. 


Moss. 


(Continued.) 


With  none  to  bless  us,  none  whom  we  can  bless, 

None,  that  with  kindred  consciousness  endued, 

If  we  were  not,  would  seem  to  smile  the  less ! 

This  is  to  be  alone  ; — this,  this  is  solitude.     .      Byron. 

And  say,  without  our  hopes,  without  our  fears, 
Without  the  home  that  plighted  love  endears, 
Without  the  smile  from  partial  beauty  won, 
Oh  !  what  were  man  ? — a  world  without  a  sun. 


Short  retirement  urges  sweet  return. 


Campbell. 


Milton. 


MYRTLE. 

Myrtus. 


Love  positive. 


I  court  others  in  verse,  but  love  thee  in  prose  ! 
They  have  my  whimsies,  but  thou  hast  my  heart. 

Prior. 

,  V 

On  your  hand,  that  pure  altar,  I  vow, 

Though  I  've  looked,  and  have  liked,  and  have  left  — 

That  I  never  have  loved  —  till  now.     .     .    M.  G.  Lewis. 


By  those  tresses  unconfined, 
Woo'd  by  "  every  gentle"  wind  ; 
By  those  lids  whose  jetty  fringe 
Kiss  thy  soft  cheek's  blooming  tinge  ; 
By  those  wild  eyes,  like  the  roe, 
Ah  !  hear  my  vow  before  I  go  — 
My  dearest  life,  I  love  thee  ! 
Can  I  cease  to  love  thee  ?  —  no  ! 
Zoe  mou  s-as  agapo 


Byron. 


Yes,  it  is  love — if  thoughts  of  tenderness, 

Tried  in  temptation,  strengthen'd  by  distress, 

Unmov'd  by  absence,  firm  in  every  clime, 

And  yet — oh,  more  than  all ! — untir'd  by  time.       same. 


Answer. 
The  myrtle  bough  bids  lovers  live. 


Scott. 


NARCISSUS,  Poetic. 
Narcissus  poeticus. 


Egotism  and  self        Nor  knew,  fond  youth  !  it  was  himself  he  lov'd. 

Addison's  Ovid. 


His  duty  'tis  to  love  himself  alone  — 

Nor  cares,  though  mankind  perish,  if  he  smiles.   Young. 

And  he,  the  light  and  vain  one,  for  him  there  never  wakes 

That  love,  for  which  a  woman's  heart  will  beat  until  it 

breaks  ...........     L.  E.  L. 

The  selfish  heart  deserves  the  pain  it  feels.     .     Young. 


NASTURTIUM. 
Indian  Cress, 
Tropceolum  major. 


A  warlike  trophy. 


In  war  excelling,  as  in  peace Horace. 


This,  to  the  hero,  when  his  sword 
Has  won  the  battle  for  the  free — 
The  thanks  of  millions  yet  to  be ! 


Halleck, 


Bring  flowers,  to  strew  in  the  conqueror's  path — 

He  hath  shaken  thrones  with  his  stormy  wrath  ! 

He  comes  with  the  spoils  of  nations  back ; 

The  vines  lie  crush'd  in  his  chariot's  track ; 

The  turf  looks  red  where  he  won  the  day; 

Bring  flowers,  to  die  in  the  conqueror's  way.     Hemans. 

Crown  ye  the  brave !  crown  ye  the  brave  ! 

As  through  your  streets  they  ride, 

And  the  sunbeams  dance  on  the  polish'd  arms 

Of  the  warriors  side  by  side  ; 

Shower  on  them  your  sweetest  flowers, 

Let  the  air  ring  with  their  praise same. 

Answer. 


Could  deeds  my  heart  discover, 
Could  valour  gain  your  charms, 

I  'd  prove  myself  a  lover, 
Against  a  world  in  arms.       .     . 


Old  song. 


Most  fair  !  thus  low  before  you, 
A  prostrate  warrior  view, 

Whose  sole  delight  and  glory 
Are  centred  all  in  you.        .     .     . 


NETTLE. 
Urtica. 


Slander.  V'Tis  slander, 

Whose  edge  is  sharper  than  the  sword  ;  whose  tongue 
Outvenoms  all  the  worms  of  Nile.  .....    Shaks. 

Soft  buzzing  slander  ;  silky  moths,  that  eat 

An  honest  name.  / Thomson. 

The  man  that  dares  traduce,  because  he  can 

With  safety  to  himself,  is  not  a  man.,    .    .     .     Cowper. 

Those  who  murder  fame 
Kill  more  than  life  destroyers Savage. 

^  Slander  meets  no  regard  from  noble  minds ; 
Only  the  base  believe,  what  the  base  only  uttei^. 

Heller's  Injured  Innocence. 


NIGHT  SHADE. 
Solanum  Nigrum, 
or,  Atropa  belladonna. 


Scepticism. 


OAK  LEAF. 
Quercus. 


Bravery. 


Ah  me  !  the  laurel'd  wreath  that  murder  rears, 
Blood-nurs'd  and  water'd  by  the  widow's  tears, 
Seems  not  so  foul,  so  tainted,  and  so  dread, 
As  waves  the  night-shade  round  the  sceptic  head. 

Campbell. 

But  you  are  learn'd  ;  in  volumes  deep  you  sit. 


Your  learning,  like  the  lunar  beam,  affords 
Light,  but  not  heat  ;  it  leaves  you  undevout, 
Frozen  at  heart,  while  speculation  shines. 


Young. 


A  fugitive  from  heaven  and  prayer, 
He  mock'd  at  all  religious  fear, 
Deep  scienc'd  in  the  mazy  lore 
Of  mad  philosophy.   .     .    .     Horace.    Ode  XXXIV. 

A  foe  to  God,  was  ne'er  true  friend  to  man.         Young. 


The  manly  oak !  the  pensive  yew, 
To  patriot,  and  to  sage,  be  due. 


Scott. 


And  for  his  meed  was  brow-bound  with  the  oak. 


Shaks. 


He  comes  the  third  time  home  with  oaken  garland. 


It  is  held 

That  valour  is  the  chiefest  virtue,  and 
Most  dignifies  the  haver  :  if  it  be, 
The  man  I  speak  of,  cannot  in  the  world 
Be  singly  counterpoised 


Not  to  the  sanguine  field  alone, 

Is  valour  limited :  she  sits  serene 

In  the  deliberate  council,  sagely  scans 

The  source  of  every  action ;  weighs,  prevents,  provides, 

And  scorns  to  count  her  glories  from  the  feats 

Of  brutal  force  alone Smollet. 

By  his  light, 

Did  all  the  chivalry  of  England  move 
To  do  brave  acts ;  he  was  indeed  the  glass 
Wherein  the  noble  youth  did  dress  themselves.     Shaks. 


OATS. 

Avena. 


Music. 


Music  resembles  poetry  :   in  each 

Are  nameless  graces,  which  no  methods  teach, 

And  which  a  master's  hand  alone  can  reach  ! 


Pope. 


OATS. 


(Continued.) 


At  her  command  the  various  passions  lie ; 

She  stirs  to  battle,  or  she  lulls  to  peace; 
Melts  the  charm'd  soul  to  thrilling  ecstasy, 

And  bids  the  jarring  world's  harsh  clangour  cease. 

Oh  !  surely  melody  from  heaven  was  sent, 

To  cheer  the  soul  when  tired  with  human  strife, 

To  soothe  the  wayward  heart  by  sorrow  rent, 
And  soften  down  the  rugged  road  of  life. 

H.  K.  White. 


Can  any  mortal  mixture  of  earth's  mould 

Breathe  such  divine  enchanting  ravishment  ? 

Sure  something  holy  lodges  in  that  breast, 

And  with  these  raptures  moves  the  vocal  air 

To  testify  his  hidden  residence Milton- 

Who,  as  they  sung,  would  take  the  prison'd  soul, 

And  lap  it  in  Elysium same. 


OLEANDER. 
Rosebay. 
Nerium. 


Beware ! 


Some  Cupid  kills  with  arrows,  some  with  traps  Shaks. 

Timely  advised,  the  coming  evil  shun  !     .     .     .  Prior. 

A  little  fire  is  quickly  trodden  out ; 

Which  being  suffer'd,  rivers  cannot  quench.     .  Shaks. 

The  better  part  of  valour  is  discretion.     .     .     .  same. 

Then  fly  betimes,  for  only  they 

Conquer  love,  that  run  away Carew. 


My  heart !  I  told  thee  what  it  was  to  love  ; 

And  now  my  mother's  counsels  I  approve. 

She,  on  a  time,  ere  set  her  mortal  sun, 

As  we  convers'd  where  Peneus'  waters  run, 

"  Daughter,"  she  said,  "t  to  maidens'  heedless  hearts 

Love's  early  dawn  delicious  charms  imparts  : 

With  gentle  breath  the  traitor  comes  at  first ; 

Then  tempests  rise,  and  clouds  of  sorrow  burst. 

Would'st  thou  be  well  ?  whatever  form  he  bear, 

He  wears  his  arrows  still,  and  so  beware !" 

These  lessons  I  remember'd  oft  and  oft, 
And  when  with  winning  air  and  accent  soft 
The  shepherd  came,  his  words,  his  looks  were  such, 
I  warn'd  thee,  heart,  not  to  be  pleased  so  much. 
Hadst  thou  but  taken  heed,  nor  answer'd  still 
It  was  not  love  I  felt,  but  mere  good  will, 


OLEANDER. 

(Continued.) 


Nor  idly  sported  with  his  lambent  fires, 
His  quiet  joys,  and  innocent  desires, 
Thou  hadst  not  found,  when  it  was  all  too  late, 
The  dart  of  love  is  often  that  of  fate. 

Ah  silly,  silly  heart !  I  told  thee  so ; 
But  I  will  school  thee  yet  to  hide  thy  wo. 

Holier e.     Translated  by  C***e. 

What  could  I  more  ? 

I  warn'd  thee,  I  admonish'd  thee,  foretold 
The  danger,  and  the  lurking  enemy 
That  lay  in  wait Milton. 


OLIVE. 
Olea. 


Peace. 


I  hold  the  olive  in  my  hand :  my  words  are  as  full  of 
peace,  as  of  matter Shaks. 

Our  peace  shall  stand  as  firm  as  rocky  mountain. 


Sweet  peace,  who  long  hath  shunn'd  my  plaintive  lay, 
Consents  at  length  to  bring  me  short  delight.      Collins. 

If  after  tempest  come  such  calms, 

May  the  winds  blow  till  they  have  waken'd  death  ! 

Shaks. 

*       *  •     *       *       *       welcome  as  day 
After  a  night  of  storms,  with  fairer  beams 
Returning ;  welcome  as  the  liquid  lapse 
Of  fountain  to  the  thirsty  traveller. 

JEschylus*  Agamemnon. 


ORANGE  BLOSSOM. 
Citrus  aurantium. 


Your  purity  equals 
your  loveliness. 


Nought  can  be  diviner 

Than  the  blue  meaning  of  those  soft  spring  eyes — 
Young,  vernal-looking, — filled  with  vernal  life ; 
Whose  peace  surpasscth  all  we  know  of  strife, 
Telling  of  thoughts  all  pure  and  bright  within, 
Untouched  by  sorrow,  unalloyed  by  sin.     .     .     .  Anon. 

There  are  creatures  yet  who  bless 
This  earth  with  so  much  loveliness, 
As  if  they  had  escaped  the  blight, 
The  first  transgression  shed  o'er  all, 
And  still  preserved  the  souls's  pure  light, 
Undimm'd,  unfaded  from  the  fall. 
Or  were  some  young  bright  spirits  strayed 
From  their  own  far-off  world  of  bliss, 
In  beauty's  loveliest  charms  array'd, 
To  make  a  paradise  of  this S.P.C. 


-4* 


ORANGE  BLOSSOM. 

(Continued.) 


No  pearl  ever  lay  under  Oman's  green  water, 
More  pure  in  its  shell  than  thy  spirit  in  thee. 


Moore. 


Ox  EYE. 
Buphthalmum. 


Patience. 


With  patience  calm  the  storm, 

While  we  bethink  a  means  to  break  it  off.     .     .    Shaks. 

Ah  me  !  for  aught  that  ever  I  could  read, 

Could  ever  hear  by  tale  or  history, 

The  course  of  true  love  never  did  run  smooth.    .    same. 

True  lovers  have  been  ever  cross'd, 

Then  let  us  teach  our  trial  patience ; 

Because  it  is  a  customary  cross, 

As  due  to  love,  as  thoughts,  and  dreams,  and  sighs, 

Wishes,  and  tears,  poor  fancy's  followers.     .     .      same. 

'Tis  hard :  but  patience  must  endure, 
And  soothe  the  woes  it  cannot  cure. 

Horace.    Ode  XXV. 

To  bear,  is  to  conquer  our  fate Campbell. 

Answer. 

Had  it  pleas'd  Heaven  to  try  me  with  affliction — 
Steep'd  me  in  poverty  to  the  very  lips ; 
Given  to  captivity  me  and  my  utmost  hopes  ; 
I  should  have  found  in  some  part  of  my  soul 

A  drop  of  patience — 

But  there  where  I  have  garner'd  up  my  heart ; 
Where  either  I  must  live,  or  bear  no  life ; 
The  fountain  from  the  which  my  current  runs, 
Or  else  dries  up ;  to  be  discarded  thence  !     .    .   Shaks. 

Exiled  from  all  my  soul  holds  dear  ! 

Life  hath  no  torture  so  severe.     .     .    Euripides1  Medea. 

Patience  says,  'tis  past  her  cure  ! Shaks. 


PARSLEY. 

Apium. 


Useful  Knowledge. 


He  ordain'd  a  lady  for  his  praise, 

Generally  praiseful;   fair  and   young,  and   skill'd   in 
housewiferies Chapman.     Iliad. 


And  ay  she  wrought  her  mammy's  wark, 
And  ay  she  sang  sae  merrilie  ; 

The  blythest  bird  upon  the  bush 
Had  ne'er  a  lighter  heart  than  she. 


.    Burns. 


A  bonny  lass,  I  will  confess, 

Is  pleasant  to  the  c'e, 
But  without  some  better  qualities 

She's  no  a  lass  for  me. 


PARSLEY. 

. 

(Continued.) 


Answer. 

Nocht  shall  be  wanting  on  my  part, 
To  gather  wealth  to  raise  ray  shepherd's  heart : 
Whate'er  he  wins,  I'll  guide  wi'  canny  care. 

***** 
Then  I  '11  employ  wi'  pleasure  a'  my  art 
To  keep  him  cheerfu'  and  secure  his  heart. 
At  e'en,  when  he  comes  weary  frae  the  hill, 
I  '11  ha'e  a'  things  made  ready  to  his  will : 
In  winter,  when  he  toils  through  wind  an'  rain, 
A  bleezing  ingle,  an'  a  clean  hearth  stane  ; 
And  soon  as  he  flings  by  his  plaid  an'  staff, 
The  seething  pats  be  ready  to  tak  afF; 
Clean  hag-a-bag  I'll  spread  upon  his  board, 
An'  serve  him  with  the  best  we  can  afford : 
Good  humour  an'  white  bigonets  shall  be 
Guards  to  my  face,  to  keep  his  love  for  me.       Ramsay. 


PASSION  FLOWER. 

Passiflora. 


Susceptibility. 


• 


Young  men's  love,  then,  lies, 

Not  truly  in  their  hearts,  but  in  their  eyes  ?     .     Shaks. 

Love  looks  not  with  the  eye,  but  with  the  mind.   same. 
This  is  the  wavering  love  of  man Anon. 

I  knew  thee  light  as  foam,  that  plays  the  ocean's  waves 

among. 
Gay  were  we  when  we  met  at  first,  and  we  parted  just 

as  gay L.  E.  L. 


PEA,   Everlasting. 
Lathyrus  latifolia. 


An  appointed  meeting.    Give  me  the  advantage  of  a  brief  discourse.     .     Shaks. 

Let  us  consult  together ;  beliere  me  'tis  no  time 

For  dull  delay ;  'tis  the  decisive  hour, 

And  this  the  very  crisis  of  our  fate.     Sophocles'  Electro. 


The  sight  of  lovers  feedeth  those  in  love. 
Answer. 


Shaks. 


Come  you  this  afternoon, 

To  know  our  pleasure  in  this  case Shaks. 

By  all  the  pretty  oaths  that  are  not  dangerous, 

If  you  come  one  minute  behind  your  hour, 

I  will  think  you  the  most  pathetical  break-promise, 

And  the  most  hollow  lover,  that  may  be  chosen 

Out  of  the  gross  band  of  the  unfaithful.     .     .     .     same. 

Lovers  ever  run  before  the  clock same. 

Lovers  break  not  hours,  except  it  be 

To  come  before  their  time same. 


•«*• 


PEA,  Sweet. 


Departure. 


Lathyrus  odoratus. 


Parting  strikes  poor  lovers  dumb.         .     t     .    .    Shaks. 

And  there  were  sudden  partings,  such  ad  press 
The  life  from  out  young  hearts,  and  choking  sighs. 

%7-fltt. 

And  is  he  gone  ? — on  sudden  solitude 

How  oft  that  fearful  question  will  intrude  ! 

'Twas  but  an  instant  past — and  here  he  stood !       same. 

I  '11  think  it  but  a  fond  conceit ; 

It  cannot  be  that  thou  art  gone  !     .     .     .     .     Coleridge. 

Think'st  thou  that  she,  whose  only  light, 

In  this  dim  world,  from  thee  hath  shone, 

Could  bear  the  long  and  cheerless  night, 

That  must  be  hers  when  thou  art  gone  ?     .     .     Moore. 

How  can  I  live  without  thee,  how  forego 

Thy  sweet  converse  and  love? Milton. 

*         *         *         There  is  no  living,  none, 

If  Bertram  be  away Shaks. 


PEACH  BLOSSOM. 
Amygdalus  persica. 


/  am  your  captive. 


I  strove  not  to  resist  so  sweet  a  flame1, 
But  gloried  in  a  happy  captive's  name. 
Nor  would  I  now,  could  love  permit,  be  free  ! 


^Lyttelton. 


My  heart  with  love  is  beating, 
Transported  by  your  eyes ; 

Alas  !  there  's  no  retreating, 
In  vain  a  captive  flies. 


Old  Song. 


I  ne'er  saw  excellence  in  woman-kind 

Till  now,  and  yet,  discern'd  it  at  the  first : 

Perfection  is  discover'd  in  a  moment, 

He  that  ne'er  saw  the  sun  before,  yet  knew  him. 

Dryden. 


There  is  a  nymph  whose  chains  I  feel, 
And  bless  the  silken  fetter 


Moore. 


There  's  a  dear  charm  about  her — 
'Tis  a  heart  so  kind  and  warm, 
Mine  would  break  without  her. 

Never 

Till  this  moment  could  I  say 
Here  I  fix  my  choice  for  ever. 


Song. 


Still  I  'm  thy  captive,  yet  my  thoughts  are  free  : 

To  be  love's  bond-man,  is  true  liberty.!    .     .     Marston. 


PENNYROYAL. 

Cunila  pulegioides, 
or,  Menthe  pulegium. 


Flee  away!  Beware  of  danger!  never  stay 

Nor  linger  on  one  bud  too  long, 
But  lightly  flutter  and  away 
Before  you  feel  the  charm  too  strong. 

Hon.  Charles  Phipps. 

Shun  delays,  they  breed  remorse  ; 
Take  thy  time,  while  time  is  lent  thee ; 

*  *  *  * 

Sober  speed  is  wisdom's  leisure, 

After  wits  are  dearly  bought, 

Let  thy  fore  wit  guide  thy  thought. 

Robert  Southwell,  Esq. 

Then,  Hafed,  as  thou  lov'st  me,  fly, 

I  pray  thee  as  thou  lov'st  me,  fly, 

East,  west,  alas !  I  care  not  whether, 

So  thou  art  safe.  Moore.    Lalla  Rookh. 

Be  wise  to-day  ;  'tis  madness  to  defer. 

Young's  Night  Thoughts. 


PEONY. 

Pseonia. 


Anger.       A  Frown. 


If  she  do  frown,  'tis  not  in  hate  of  you — 

But  rather  to  beget  more  love  in  you. 

If  she  do  chide,  'tis  not  to  have  you  gone — 

*  *  *  * 

Take  no  repulse,  whatever  she  doth  say ; 
For,  get-you-gonc,  she  doth  not  mean  away. 


Shaks. 


PERIWINKLE,  Blue.      Pleasures  of  Memory.    Still  the  fond  lover  views  his  absent  maid.    .     .Rogers. 


Vinca  minor. 


And,  to  his  eye, 
There  is  but  one  beloved  face  on  earth^  J    .    .   Byron. 

Perish  the  lover,  whose  imperfect  flame 

Forgets  one  feature  of  the  nymph  he  lov'd.     Shenstone. 

What  light  is  light,  if  Sylvia  be  not  seen  ? 

What  joy'is  joy,  if  Sylvia  be  not  by  ? 

Unless  it  be  to  think  that  she  is  by, 

And  feed  upon  the  shadow  of  perfection.    .     .      Shakt. 

Come,  flattering  memory  !  and  tell  my  heart 
How  kind  she  was,  and  with  what  pleasing  art 
She  strove  its  fondest  wishes  to  obtain, 
Confirm  her  power,  and  faster  bind  my  chain. 

Lyttelton. 


PERIWINKLE,  White.        Pleasing  reminis-       Some  little  friendship  formed,  and  cherished  here. 

cences.  Rogers. 

Vinca  minor. 

So  turn  our  hearts,  where'er  we  rove, 

To  those  we  've  left  behind  us Moore. 

Often,  like  the  evening  sun,  comes  the  memory  of  for- 
mer times  o'er  my  soul Ossian. 

The  memory  of  joys  that  are  past,  is  like  the  music  of 
Caryl,  pleasant  and  mournful  to  the  soul.     .      same. 


PHLOX. 

Phlox. 


Unanimity.  There  are  two  hearts  whose  movements  thrill 

In  unison  so  closely  sweet ! 
That  pulse  to  pulse  responsive  still, 

They  both  must  heave— or  cease  to  beat.   .    Barton. 

There  are  two  souls  whose  equal  flow 

In  gentle  streams  so  calmly  run, 
That  when  they  part — they  part ! — ah,  no  ! 

They  cannot  part — those  souls  are  one.    .    .      same. 

Each  was  the  other's  mirror,  and  but  read 
Joy  sparkling  in  their  dark  eyes,  like  a  gem ; 

And  knew  such  brightness  was  but  the  reflection 
Of  their  exchanging  glances  of  affection.    .      Byron. 


Oh !  happy,  happy  lovers  ! 
Happy  youth,  and  happy  maid — 
When  tremblingly  each  heart  discovers 
All  its  love  by  love  repaid 


Old  Song. 


PINE,  Black  Spruce  Fir. 

Pinus  nigra. 


Pitv.  A  crown  of  pine  upon  his  head  he  wore ; 

And  thus  began  her  pity  to  implore.   .    Dryden's  Ovid. 


Is  there  no  pity  sitting  in  the  clouds, 
That  sees  into  the  bottom  of  my  grief?  .     . 

Where  first  my  shipwreck'd  heart  was  lost, 

I  may  once  more  repeat  my  pain ; 

Once  more  in  dying  notes  complain 

Of  slighted  vow  sand  cold  disdain 


Shaks. 


Prior. 


As  love  can  exquisitely  bless, 

Love  only  feels  the  marvellous  of  pain ; 

Opens  new  views  of  torture  in  the  soul, 

And  wakes  the  nerve  where  agonies  are  born.    Smollet. 


PINE,  Black  Spruce  Fir. 

(Continued.) 


Let  soft  compassion  touch  your  gentle  mind. 

Pope's  Ovid. 

Can  a  bosom  so  gentle  remain 
Unmov'd,  when  her  Corydon  sighs  ?  .    .     .     Shenstone. 

Could  my  griefs  speak,  the  tale  would  have  no  end. 

Otway. 

Answer. 

Your  cause  doth  strike  my  heart 

With  pity Shaks. 

And  pity  still  foreruns  approaching  love, 

As  lightning  does  the  thunder Dryden. 

Love  was  in  the  next  degree : 
'Twas  but  a  kindred  sound  to  move, 
For  pity  melts  the  mmd  to  love same. 


PINE,  Pitch. 
P.  rigida. 


Time  and  philosophy. 


So  subtle,  and  so  swift  I  fly, 
Love  's  not  more  fugitive  than  I ! 


Gay. 


Youth  is  not  rich  in  time ;  it  may  be  poor. 

Part  with  it  as  with  money,  sparingly;  pay 

No  moment,  but  in  purchase  of  its  worth; 

And  what  its  worth,  ask  death-beds ;  they  can  tell. 

Part  with  it  as  with  life,  reluctant ;  big 

With  holy  hope  of  nobler  time  to  come.     .     .      Young. 

Time's  use  was  doom'd  a  pleasure,  waste,  a  pain- 
That  man  might  feel  his  error  if  unseen, 
And  feeling,  fly  to  labour  for  his  cure ; 
Not  blund'ring  split  on  idleness  for  ease. 
Life's  cares  are  comforts ;  such  by  Heaven  designed ; 
He  that  hath  none,  must  make  them,  or  be  wretched. 

same. 

Time,  which  all  things  else  removes, 

Still  heightens  virtue  and  improves Gay. 


PINE,  Spruce ; 

or,  Norway  Spruce  Fir. 
Pinus  abies. 


Farewell !  Farewell !  whatever  be  my  lot, 

While  feeling  burns  within  my  breast, 
Although  by  thee,  perhaps,  forgot, 
On  thee  remembrance  oft  will  rest. 

In  pleasure's  time,  my  heart  will  say, 

Though  brightly  move  these  moments  by- 
Yet  far  less  bright  and  bless'd  are  they, 
Than  those  I  knew  when  thou  wert  nigh. 


PINE,  Spruce. 

(Continued.) 


And  oft  in  sorrow's  lonely  hour, 

Thy  memory  on  my  soul  will  steal, 
Like  music's  strain,  with  magic  power 

To  chase  away  each  thought  of  ill. : 

Farewell !  may  sorrow  never  thrill 

That  breast,  where  truth  and  peace  reside, 

But  unprofaned  by  anguish  still, 

May  all  thy  hours  in  sweetness  glide. 

R.  R*****l. 


Farewell !  for  I  must  leave  thee, 
I  weep  my  last  adieu.     .     .     . 


Song. 


Farewell ! — In  that  word — that  fatal  word — howe'er 
We  promise — hope — believe — there  breathes  despair. 

Byron. 


PINK,  The  Carnation. 

Dianthus  caryophyllus. 


Woman's  love.         Yes,  woman's  love  is  free  from  guile, 

And  pure  as  bright  Aurora's  ray.     .     .     G.  P.  Morris. 


fo, 


Oh  !  where  on  the  earth  is  the  truth  that  may  vie, 
With  woman's  love  and  long  constancy  ? 
Absence  but  makes  her  love  the  more, 
For  her  thoughts  then  feed  on  their  own  sweet  store. 
And  is  not  hers  the  heart  alone 

That  hath  pleasure  and  pride,  in  a  prize,  when  won  1    \ 

L.  E>L. 


Alas,  the  love  of  woman  !  it  is  known 
To  be  a  lovely  and  a  fearful  thing ; 
For  all  of  theirs  upon  that  die  is  thrown, 
And  if 'tis  lost,  life  has  no  more  to  bring 
To  them,  but  mockeries  of  the  past  alone. 


.   Byron. 


It  is  a  fearful  thing 

To  love  as  I  love  thee  ;  to  feel  the  world — 
The  bright,  the  beautiful,  joy-giving  world — 
A  blank  without  thee.     Never  more  to  me 
Can  hope,  joy,  fear,  wear  different  seeming.     Now, 
I  have  no  hope  that  does  not  dream  for  thee ; 
I  have  no  joy,  that  is  not  shared  by  thee  ; 
I  have  no  fear,  that  does  not  dread  for  thee. 
All  that  I  once  took  pleasure  in — my  lute, 
Is  only  sweet  when  it  repeats  thy  name  ; 
My  flowers,  I  only  gather  them  for  thee ; 
The  book  drops  listless  down,  I  cannot  read, 
Unless  it  is  to  thee  ;  my  lonely  hours 
Are  spent  in  shaping  forth  our  future  lives, 
After  my  own  romantic  fantasies. 
He  is  the  star  round  which  my  thoughts  revolve 

Like  satellites L.  E.  L. 

The  Ancestress. 


PINK,  Indian,  single. 
Dianthus  chinensis. 


Aversion.  Shall  I  go  on? — Or  have  I  said  enough ?     .     .     Milton. 

Repulse  upon  repulse,  met  ever — 

Yet  gives  not  o'er,  though  desperate  of  success,     same. 

Whose  love-suit  hath  been  to  me  as  fearful  as  a  siege. 

Shaks. 

Wi'  curling  lip,  and  scornful  een, 

She  listened  to  all  he  said — 
While  the  moon  look'd  down,  and  the  twinkling  sheen 

Of  the  stars  is  over  them  shed. 
My  heart  is  wae  for  the  luckless  knight, 

His  vows  are  scattered  in  air, 
For  pitiless  is  his  lady  bright, 

And  his  prayer  is  a  bootless  prayer. 


Go,  speak  not  to  me ;  even  now  begone. 

Do  I  not  in  plainest  truth 
Tell  you — I  do  not,  nor  I  cannot  love  you  ? 

He  might  have  took  his  answer  long  ago.    . 


S.  P.  C. 

Shaks. 


PINK,  Mountain. 

Dianthus  ceesius. 


Aspiring.               Fain  would  I  climb- 
But  that  I  fear  to  fall Sir  W.  Raleigh. 

Answer. 

If  you  do  fear — 

Then  do  not  climb  at  all !     .     .     .    .  Queen  Elizabeth. 

Who  has  assay'd  no  danger,  gains  no  praise.     .     Prior. 

The  wise  and  active  conquer  difficulties 

By  daring  to  attempt  them Rowe. 

And  fearless  minds  climb  soonest  unto  crowns.     Shaks. 

Our  doubts  are  traitors — 
And  make  us  lose,  by  fearing  to  attempt, 

The  good  we  oft  might  win.    .     .     same. 

Thou  wilt  not  take  the  trouble  to  be  blest.     .       Young. 


PINK,  Red,  double. 
Dianthus  rubeus. 


Pure  and  ardent 
love. 


He  loves  you  with  such  a  pure  and  holy  fire 

As  will  not,  cannot,  but  with  life  expire  !     .     .  Dryden. 

Thou  loved  beyond  what  verse  or  speech  can  tell ! 

Beattie. 


PINK,  Red,  double. 

(Continued.) 


I  will  send  the  pink,  the  emblem  of  my  dear, 
For  she  's  the  pink  of  womankind,  and  blooms  without 
a  peer Burns. 

'Tis  a  token  of  all  the  heart  can  keep 

Of  holy  love,  in  its  fountain  deep Anon. 

This  pink  is  one  of  Cupid's  carriers Shaks. 

Oh,  tell  her  that  my  virtuous  flame 

Is,  as  her  spotless  soul,  refin'd.     .     .     Thomson.    Song. 


PINK,  Variegated. 
Dianthus  variegatus. 


Refusal.  Too  much,  Alexis,  I  have  heard — 

But  you  shall  promise,  ne'er  again 
To  breathe  your  vows,  or  speak  your  pain.  .     .    Prior. 

(Take  my  esteem,  if  you  on  that  can  live  ; 
Fdr  frankly,  sir,  'tis  all  I  have  to  give.    .     .      Dryden. 

It  is  not  virtue,  wisdom,  valour,  wit, 

Strength,  comeliness  of  shape,  or  amplest  merit, 

That  woman's  love  can  win.      *       *       * 

But  what  it  is,  hard  is  to  say,  harder  to  hit.     .     Milton. 


PINK,  White.  Ingenuousness. 

Dianthus  albus. 


Whate'er  the  emotions  of  her  heart, 
Still  shone  conspicuous  in  her  eyes — 

Stranger  to  every  female  art, 

Alike  to  feign,  or  to  disguise.     .    . 


Heart  on  her  lips,  and  soul  within  her  eyes. 


Shaw. 
.     Byron. 


If  tenderness  touch'd  her,  the  dark  of  her  eye 
At  once  took  a  darker,  a  heavenlier  dye, 
From  the  depth  of  whose  shadow,  like  holy  revealings 
From  the  innermost  shrine,  came  the  light  of  her  feelings. 

Moore. 

Each  beauty  of  her  mind  and  face, 
Was  brighten'd  by  some  sweet  peculiar  grace  ! 
How  eloquent  in  every  look — 

Through  her  expressive  eyes,  her  soul  distinctly  spoke. 

Lyttelton. 

And  the  soft  language  of  the  soul 

Flow'd  from  her  never-silent  eye.    .     .    .     Cartwright. 


PLEURISY  ROOT  ;  Cure  for  the  heart-      The  miserable  have  no  other  medicine,  but  only  hope. 

ache.  Shaks. 

or,  Swallow  Wort. 

Hope,  heaven-born  cherub,  still  appears, 

Asclepias.  Howe'er  misfortune  seems  to  lower  : 

Her  smile  the  threat'ning  tempest  clears, 
And  is  the  rainbow  of  the  shower Anon. 

Our  remedies  oft  in  ourselves  do  lie Shaks. 

Wise  men  ne'er  sit  and  wail  their  loss, 

But  cheerly  seek  how  to  redress  their  harms.     .    same. 

You  may  be  pleased  to  catch  at  my  intent.     .     .  same. 


POLYANTHOS,  Lilac  Coloured.      Confidence.     Be  as  just  and  gracious  unto  me, 

As  I  am  confident  and  kind  to  thee same. 

Primula. 

Let  mutual  joys  our  mutual  trust  combine, 

And  love,  and  love-born  confidence,  be  thine  !      Dryden. 

Thou  knowest  how  fearless  is  my  trust  in  thee. 

L.  E.  L. 


POLYANTHOS,  The  hearts  mystery.       The  love-sick  cowslip  that  head  inclines 

Crimson  heart.  To  hide  a  bleeding  heart Hurdis. 

Primula.  The  rath  primrose  that  forsaken  dies. 

Milton's  Lycidas. 

The  heart  hath  its  mystery,  and  who  may  reveal  it ; 
Or  who  ever  read  in  the  depths  of  their  own, 
How  much  we  never  may  speak  of,  yet  feel  it, 
But  even  in  feeling  it,  know  it  unknown  ?     .     L.  E.  L. 

A  Night  in  May. 

*      *      *      *      None  knew 
If  she  had  loved ;  but  always  did  her  song 
Dwell  on  love's  sorrow — 

She  had  a  strange  sweet  voice,  the  maid  who  sang — 
"  Sleep,  heart  of  mine — 
Why  should  love  awake  thee  ? 
Like  yon  closed  rose-bud, 
To  thy  rest  betake  thee. 

Waken,  heart,  of  mine ! 

From  such  dangerous  sleeping ; 

Love's  haunted  visions 

Ever  end  in  weeping." L.  E.  L. 

The  Ancestress. 


POLYANTHOS. 


(Continued.) 


How  light  was  thy  heart  till  love's  witchery  came, 
Like  the  wind  of  the  south*  o'er  a  summer  lute  blowing, 
And  hush'd  all  its  music,  and  wither'd  its  frame. 

Moore. 


POMEGRANATE,  Flower.  Mature  and          Impatient  nature  had  taught  motion 

finished  elegance.     To  start  from  tin»i  and>  cheerfully,  to  fly 
Punica.  Before,  and  seize  upon  maturity Crashaw. 

Mature  she  was — 
Grace  shap'd  her  limbs,  and  beauty  deck'd  her  face. 

Prior. 

Sylvia  's  like  autumn  ripe,  yet  mild  as  May, 

More  bright  than  noon,  yet  fresh  as  early  day.    .    Gay. 

Time's  wing  but  seem'd,  in  stealing  o'er, 

To  leave  her  lovelier  than  before Moore. 


POPPY,  Red. 

Papaver  rhaeas. 


Consolation.  Exalt  thy  love-dejected  heart ; 

Be  mine  the  task,  or  e'er  we  part, 
To  make  thee  grief  resign.     .     . 


.     Parnell. 


Pray  you  be  comforted  ; 
I  will  pour  balm  into  thy  bleeding  wounds, 
And  heal  them  up  for  ever.    .    .    .     Geo.  Coleman,  Jr. 

Mountaineers. 


Be  of  good  cheer ;  all  will  go  well. 


Byron. 


POPPY,  White.     My  bane !     My  antidote  !      Doom'd  to  heal — or  doom'd  to  kill, 

Fraught  with  good — or  fraught  with  ill.  Mrs.  Robinson. 
P.  somniferum. 

'Tis  you,  alone,  can  save,  or  give  my  doom.    .     .     Ovid. 

On  you,  most  lov'd,  with  anxious  fear  I  wait, 
And  from  your  judgment  must  expect  my  fate. 

Addison. 

On  you  my  eyes  are  turn'd,  on  you  depends 
My  fate,  with  prosperous  fortune  to  be  blest, 

Or  to  be  nothing .    Euripides. 

Ip/iigenia  in  Tauris. 

Now  on  the  doubtful  edge 

Of  black  despair  I  stand,  or  joyful  light.         JEschylus. 

The  Furies. 

Note.—*  The  Samoor  wind  so  softens  the  strings  of  the  lute,  that 
they  can  never  be  tuned  while  it  lasts.— Stephens'  Persia. 


PRIDE  OF  CHINA. 
Melia  azedarach. 


Dissension.  Alas  •'  how  light  a  cause  may  move 

Dissension,  between  hearts  that  love  ! 

A  something,  light  as  air — a  look, 
A  word  unkind,  or  wrongly  taken — 
Oh  !  love,  that  tempest  never  shook, 
A  breath,  a  touch  like  this,  hath  shaken. 


Moore. 


Answer. 

Though  light  cause  may  move 
Dissensions  between  hearts  that  love, 
Is  it  not  true,  a  cause  as  light, 
May  sever'd  hearts  again  unite 
In  truer,  kindlier,  harmony, 

Than  felt  before  ?     , 


Anon. 


PRIMROSE,  Evening. 

CEnothera. 


Inconstancy.  Is  there,  kind  heaven !  no  constancy  in  man  ? 

No  steadfast  truth,  no  generous  fixed  affection, 
That  can  bear  up  against  a  selfish  world  ? 
No,  there  is  none. 

Thomson's  Tancred  and  Sigismunda. 

Were  man 

But  constant,  he  were  perfect :  that  one  error 
Fills  him  with  faults  ;  makes  him  run  through  all  sins : 
Inconstancy  falls  off,  ere  it  begins same. 

Oh !  swear  not  by  the  moon,  th'  inconstant  moon, 

That  monthly  changes  in  her  circled  orb,1 

Lest  that  thy  love  prove,  likewise,  variable.          Shaks. 


PRIMROSE,  Rose  coloured.     Unpatronised      Be  thou  the  first  true  merit  to  befriend, 


Primula. 


merit.  His  praise  is  lost  who  waits  till  all  commend.    .     Pope. 

Ah  me  !  full  sorely  is  my  heart  forlorn, 
To  think  how  modest  worth  neglected  lies ; 
While  partial  fame  doth  with  her  blasts  adorn 
Such  deeds  alone,  as  pride  and  pomp  disguise, 
Deeds  of  ill  sort,  and  mischievous  emprise. 


Shenstone. 


But  own  I  must,  in  this  perverted  age, 
Who  most  deserve,  can't  always  most  engage ; 
So  far  is  worth  from  making  glory  sure, 
It  often  hinders  what  it  should  procure.       .     • 


Young. 


UnrivalPd  as  thy  merit,  be  thy  fame  ! 


Tickell. 


f 


PRIVET. 

Ligustrum. 


Mildness. 


With  a  spirit  as  meek,  as  the  gentlest  of  those 
Who  in  life's  sunny  valley  lie  shelter'd  and  warm. 

Moore. 

She  was  a  soft  landscape  of  mild  earth, 
Where  all  was  harmony,  and  calm  and  quiet, 
Luxuriant,  budding.          Byron. 

%   . 

Whose  heavenly  mind, 

Genius,  with  virtue;  strength,  with  softness  join' d — 
With  meek  simplicity,  and  joy  of  heart; 
Though  sprightly,  gentle;  though  polite,  sincere ; 
And  only  of  thyself  a  judge  severe.        .     .     .     Beattie. 


Of  manners  gentle,  of  affections  mild, 

In  wit,  a  man — simplicity,  a  child Pope. 

He,  whose  gentle  breast 
In  nature's  softest  mould  was  made.    .     .     Langhorne, 


QUAMOCLIT. 
Ipomoea. 


Busy  body.  Busy  bodies  and  intermeddlers,  are  a  dangerous  sort 

of  people  to  have  to  do  withal.  L1  Estrange. 

Answer. 

Because  I  take  an  interest  in  other  people's  business, 
I  'rn  hubb'd,  and  scrubb'd,  and  rubb'd,  and  drubb'd, 

Until  I  feel  a  dizziness ; 
Which  makes  me  vow,  1  '11  never  do  a  kind  or  worthy 

action, 
For  whatso'er  I  meddle  in,  I  ne'er  give  satisfaction. 

Poor  Paul  Pry ! ! 


QUEEN'S  ROCKET  ; 
or,  Dame's  Violet. 
Hesperis  matronalis. 


You  are  the  queen     ^ike  kings,  we  l°se  tne  conquests  gain'd  before, 

of  coquettes  ^  vam  amt"tion  still  to  make  them  more.        .    Pope. 

Their  smiles,  the  great,  and  the  coquette,  throw  out 

For  other  hearts,  tenacious  of  their  own  : 

And  we  no  less  of  ours,  when  such  the  bait.    .     Young. 


The  vain  coquette  each  suit  disdains, 
And  glories  in  her  lover's  pains — 
With  age  she  fades,  each  lover  flies, 
Contemn'd,  forlorn,  she  pines  and  dies. 


.     .     Gay. 


RAGGED  ROBIN  ; 
or,  Meadow  Lychnis. 
Flos  cuculi. 


Wit. 


With  Cupid's  arrow,  she  hath  Dian's  wit.  .     .    Shaks. 
Her  words  do  show  her  wit  incomparably.     .     .    same. 

With  her  mien  she  enamours  the  brave; 

With  her  wit  she  engages  the  free ; 

With  her  modesty  pleases  the  grave ; 

She  is  every  way  pleasing  to  me.       .     .     .     Shenstone. 

Illum'd  by  a  wit  that  would  fascinate  sages, 
Yet  playful  as  Peris  just  loos'd  from  their  cages. 

Moore. 

My  heart  would  you  hit, 
Tip  your  arrow  with  wit, 
And  it  comes  to  my  heart  with  a  twang. 
I  am  rock  to  the  handsome  and  pretty, 
Can  only  be  touch'd  by  the  witty ; 
And  beauty  will  ogle  in  vain : 
The  way  to  my  heart  's  through  my  brain.  .     Garric.k. 


RANUNCULUS. 
Ranunculus. 


/  am  dazzled  by  your 
charms. 


Bright  as  the  sun,  her  eyes  the  gazers  strike.     .    Pope. 

Who  sees  the  heavenly  Rosaline, 
That,  like  a  rude  and  savage  man  of  Inde, 
At  the  first  opening  of  the  gorgeous  east, 
Bows  not  his  vassal  head,  and,  strucken  blind, 
Kisses  the  base  ground  with  obedient  breath  ?      Shaks. 

Oh,  I  have  known  a  brighter  charm 
Than  Flora's  region  e'er  contain'd — 
A  piercing  radiance  that  could  warm 
The  heart  which  never  beauty  claim'd. 

And  this  was  in  a  maiden's  face, 
Where  mantled  beauty's  gayest  dress ; 
She  was  so  sweet — so  wildly  fair, 
Methought  perfection  centr'd  there S**n. 


ROCKET. 

Hesperis. 


Rivalry. 


Oh,  love !  thou  sternly  dost  thy  power  maintain, 

And  wilt  not  bear  a  rival  in  thy  reign, 

Tyrants  and  thee  all  fellowship  disdain.    .     .     Dryden. 

Love,  well  thou  know'st,  no  partnership  allows ; 
Cupid,  averse,  rejects  divided  vows Prior. 

Friendship  is  constant  in  all  other  things, 

Saving  the  office  and  affairs  of  love : 

Therefore  all  hearts  in  love  use  their  own  tongues, 

And  trust  no  agent;  for  beauty  is  a  witch 

Against  whose  charms  faith  melteth  into  blood.   Shaks. 


ROCKET. 

(Continued.) 


I  saw  them,  hand  in  hand,  walk  o'er  the  mead : 
Would  my  closed  eye  had  sunk  in  endless  night, 
Ere  I  was  doom'd  to  bear  that  hateful  sight ! 
Where'er  they  pass'd,  be  blasted  every  flower  ! 

Lyttelton. 

Say,  thou  inconstant,  what  has  Damon  done, 

To  lose  the  heart  his  tedious  pains  had  won  ? 

Tell  me  what  you  in  my  rival  find, 

Against  whose  power  no  ties  have  strength  to  bind  ? 

Has  he,  like  me,  with  long  obedience,  strove 

To  conquer  your  disdain,  arid  merit  love  ? 

Has  he,  with  transport,  every  smile  ador'd, 

And  died  with  grief  at  each  ungentle  word? 

Ah,  no  !  the  conquest  was  obtain'd  with  ease ; 

He  pleased  you,  by  not  studying  to  please  : 

His  careless  indolence  your  pride  alarm'd  ; 

And  had  he  lov'd  you  more,  he  less  had  charm'd. 

Lyttelton. 


ROSE,  Austrian. 
Rosa  bicolor. 


Thou  art  all  that 
lovely. 


Bright  as  the  blush  of  rising  morn  ! 

Light  as  the  angel  shapes  that  bless 
An  infant's  dream,  yet  not  the  less 
Rich  in  all  woman's  loveliness     . 


Darwin. 


Moore. 


Loveliest  of  women !  Heaven  is  in  thy  soul ; 
Beauty  and  virtue  shine  for  ever  round  thee, 
Brightening  each  other !  Thou  art  all  divine.  Addison. 

Thou  art  so  fair,  so  excellently  fram'd, 

There  is  such  mind  in  thy  soul-breathing  eye, 

As  if  its  pure  home  in  heaven  it  claimed, 

And  thence  alone  could  draw  its  witchery ; 

Thy  voice  hath  such  a  soothing  melody, 

And  on  thy  lightest  thought  such  magic  plays, 

Like  a  bright  fountain  on  the  gladden'd  sky — 

Methinks,  as  on  thy  perfect  form  I  gaze, 

In  peace  should  be  thy  paths,  in  pleasantness  thy  ways. 

C.M. 


ROSE,  Bridal ;  Happy  love. 

or,  Rose-leaved  Bramble. 
Rubus  rossefolius. 


"  To  feel  that  we  adore,  to  such  refined  excess, 
That  though  the  heart  would  break  with  more, 

It  could  not  do  with  less.    .\  .    .     .     .      Moore. 


My  soul  hath  her  content  so  absolute, 
That  not  another  comfort  like  to  this, 
Succeeds  in  unknown  fate,    . 


Shaks. 


"** 


ROSE. 


(Continued.} 


Thou  art  more  happy,  Oh,  my  soul !  than  speech 
Knows  to  express  :  what  shall  I  say,  'tis  all 
Surpassing  wonder  and  the  power  of  words.   Euripides. 

Iphigenia  in  Taurus. 

She  is  mine  own  : 

And  I  as  rich  in  having  such  a  jewel, 
As  twenty  seas,  if  all  their  sand  were  pearls, 
The  water  nectar,  and  the  rocks  pure  gold.     .     .  S/iaks. 

My  true  love  is  grown  to  such  excess, 

I  cannot  sum  up  half  my  sum  of  wealth.     .     .     .   same. 

There 's  beggary  in  love  that  can  be  reckon'd.     .   same. 

Bring  flowers,  fresh  flowers,  for  the  bride  to  wear ! 
They  were  born  to  blush  in  her  shining  hair. 
Bring  flowers,  for  the  locks  of  the  fair  young  bride. 

Hetnans. 


ROSE,  Burgundy. 

Rosa  parbifolia. 


Unconscious  beauty.      Doubts  the  beauty,  which  she  doubts  alone, 

Which  dazzles  every  eye,  except  her  own.     .     .  Hayley. 

Around  her  shone 
The  nameless  charmr-,  unmark'd  by  her  alone.     Byron. 

O'er  her  warm  cheek  the  blush  of  beauty  swims. 

Shaks. 

The  bloom  that  open'd  on  her  face 

Well  seem'd  the  emblem  of  her  mind, 

Where  snowy  innocence  we  trace, 

With  blushing  modesty  combin'd.     .     .     .  Cartwright. 


ROSE,  Cabbage. 
Rosa  capitatum. 


The  ambassador  of 
love. 


Go,  fragrant  rose,  and  deck  the  lovely  breast 
Of  her  whose  image  ever  dwells  in  mine, 

And  in  thy  fair  abode  supremely  blest, 
With  balmy  sweets  repay  the  bliss  divine. 

Go,  rose — my  Chloe's  bosom  grace — 

How  happy  should  I  prove, 
Might  I  supply  that  envied  place, 

With  never-fading  love  ! 


Anon. 


Gay. 


Answer. 

Yet  I  have  not  seen 

So  likely  an  ambassador  of  love : 

A  day  in  April  never  came  so  sweet, 

To  show  how  costly  summer  was  at  hand, 

As  this  fore-spurrer  comes  before  his  lord. 


.  SJiaks. 


-4- 


-fc 

• 


-•*• 


ROSE,  Daily. 

Rosa  quotidiana. 


That  smile  I  would 
aspire  to  ! 


Smiling  she  seem'd,  and  full  of  pleasing  thought. 

Dryden. 

The  pleasant  hour 
Only  wants  thy  smile  to  bless  it Anon. 

Who  will,  may  pant  for  glory  and  excel, 

Her  smile  liis  aim,  all  higher  aims  farewell !  .     Cowper. 

Oh  !  let  me  only  breathe  the  air, 

The  blessed  air,  that  's  breath'd  by  thee, 

And  whether  on  its  wings  it  bear 

Healing,  or  death,  'tis  sweet  to  me Moore. 

Smiles  from  reason  flow — and  are  of  love  the  food. 

Milton. 
Answer. 

Know,  smiler,  at  thy  peril  thou  art  pleas'd, 
Thy  pleasure  is  the  promise  of  thy  pain, 
The  fancied  med'cine  heightens  the  disease.         Young. 


ROSE,  Damask. 
Rosa  damascena. 


Freshness.  Fresh  as  the  morn,  and  as  the  season  fair  !     .     .   Pope. 

Your  lips  disclose 
The  freshness  of  the  op'ning  rose  ; 
Your  cheeks  are  beds  of  flowers, 
Enripen'd  by  refreshing  showers Gay. 

Her  cheek  was  fresher  than  the  morning  rose 

When  the  dew  wets  its  leaves Thomson, 

Sweet  are  the  charms  of  her  I  love, 

More  fragrant  than  the  damask  rose, 

Soft  as  the  down  of  turtle  dove, 

Gentle  as  air  when  zephyr  blows, 

Refreshing  as  descending  rains 

To  sun-burnt  climes,  and  thirsty  plains.        .     .     Booth. 


ROSE,  Deep  red. 


Bashful  shame.  ^  have  marked  a  thousand  blushing  apparitions 

To  start  into  her  face  ;  a  thousand  innocent  shames 
In  angel  whiteness  bear  away  those  blushes.         Shaks. 

From  every  blush  that  kindles  in  thy  cheeks, 

Ten  thousand  little  loves  and  graces  spring 

To  revel  in  the  roses Rowe. 

The  crimson  glow  of  modesty  o'erspread 

Her  cheek,  and  gave  new  lustre  to  her  charms. 

Dr.  Thos.  Franklin. 

Still,  from  the  sweet  confusion,  some  new  grace 
Blush'd  out  by  stealth,  and  languish'd  in  her  face. 

Eusden's  Ovid. 

So  sweet  the  blush  of  bashfulness, 

Even  pity  scarce  can  wish  it  less  !      .     .     .     .     Byron. 


til 


ROSE,  Hundred  leaved. 
Rosa  centifolia. 


Pride,  I  will  instruct  my  sorrow  to  be  proud, 

For  grief  is  proud,  and  makes  his  owner  stout.      Stiaks. 

Answer. 
Yet  less  of  sorrow  than  of  pride  was  there.     .       Byron. 

Rejoinder. 

Ah  !  little  will  the  lip  reveal 

Of  all  the  burning  heart  can  feel L.  E,  L. 

How  much  of  pride,  that  never  eye 

May  look  upon  its  agony same. 


ROSE,  Maidens'  Blush.        If  you  do  love  me,  I  do  betray  myself  with  blushing  !     ....       Shaks. 

you  will  Jind  me  out. 
Rosa  rubor  virginea.  Confusion  thrill'd  me  then,  and  secret  joy, 

Fast  throbbing,  stole  its  treasures  from  my  heart, 
And  mantling  upward,  turn'd  my  face  to  crimson. 

Brooke's  Gustavus  Vasa. 

I  blush  to  think  what  I  have  said — 

But  fate  has  wrested  the  confession  from  me. 

Go  on,  and  prosper  in  the  paths  of  honour : 

Thy  virtue  will  excuse  my  passion  for  thee, 

And  make  the  gods  propitious  to  our  love.     .     Addison. 

And  yet,  what  need  I  blush  at  such  a  choice  ? 

I  love  a  man  whom  I  am  proud  to  love.     .     .      Dryden. 


ROSE,  Moss,  full  blown.        Superior  merit.       Behold  the  first  in  virtue,  as  in  face ! 

In  praise  so  just,  let  every  voice  be  raised.     .     . 

Rosa  muscosa. 

Oh  !  what  perfections  must  that  virgin  share, 

Who  fairest  is  esteem'd,  where  all  are  fair !     .      Prior. 

The  virtuous  Marcia  towers  above  her  sex  : 

True  she  is  fair — oh,  how  divinely  fair  ! 

But  still  the  lovely  maid  improves  her  charms 

With  inward  greatness,  unaffected  wisdom, 

And  sanctity  of  manners.     Cato's  soul 

Shines  out  in  every  thing  she  acts  and  speaks  ; 

While  winning  mildness  and  attractive  smiles 

Dwell  in  her  looks.  Addison. 


She  is  one 

For  whom  a  life  were  a  small  sacrifice, 
Aye,  to  be  deemed  as  nothing  ! 


.  S.P.C. 


How  could  my  tongue 
Take  pleasure,  and  be  lavish  in  thy  praise  ! 


ROSE. 


(Continued.) 


How  could  I  speak  thy  nobleness  of  nature  ! 
Thy  open,  manly  heart,  thy  courage,  constancy, 
And  inborn  truth,  unknowing  to  dissemble  ! 


And,  in  a  word,  (for  far  behind  his  worth 
Come  all  the  praises  that  I  can  bestow,) 
He  is  complete  in  feature  and  in  mind, 
With  all  good  grace  to  grace  a  gentleman. 


He  is  worthy  for  an  empress'  love, 
As  meet  to  be  an  emperor's  counsellor. 


Rowe. 


.    Shaks. 


ROSE-BUD,  Moss. 

Rosa  muscosa. 


Confession.  Well  did  I  mark  the  new-born  passion  grow, 

Which  my  heart  beat  responsive  at  perceiving. 

A.  Sketon. 
I  know  not  why 

I  love  this  youth  ;  and  I  have  heard  you  say, 
Love's  reason 's  without  reason Shaks. 

As  letters  some  hand  has  invisibly  trac'd, 

When  held  to  the  flame  will  steal  out  to  the  sight ; 

So,  many  a  feeling  that  long  seem'd  effac'd, 

The  warmth  of  a  meeting  like  this  brings  to  light. 

Moore. 

Answer. 

A  light  comes  o'er  me  from  those  looks  of  love, 
Like  the  first  dawn  of  mercy  from  above.     .     .       same. 

In  the  mild  eyes  that  shone  before  him, 

Beaming  that  blest  assurance,  worth 

AD  other  transports  known  on  earth, 

That  he  was  loved — 

Oh !  in  this  precious  hour  he  prov'd 

How  deep,  how  thorough-felt  the  glow 

Of  rapture,  kindling  out  of  wo. same. 


ROSE,  Multiflora.  Grace. 

R.  M. 
or,  Bramble,  flowered  Chinese  Rose. 


Grace  was  in  all  her  steps,  heaven  in  her  eye, 

In  every  gesture  dignity  and  love Milton. 

Heavens !  with  what  grace  she  mov'd, 
Who  could  have  seen  her  then,  and  not  have  lov'd  ? 

Ly  Helton. 

With  smooth  step 
Disclosing  motion  in  its  every  charm.    .     .      Thomson. 

Each  look,  each  motion,  wak'd  a  new-born  grace, 
That  o'er  her  form  its  transient  glory  cast.     .     Mason. 


ROSE,  Multiflora. 

(Continued.) 


All  the  wonders  of  external  grace, 
A  person  finely  turn'd,  a  mould,  a  face, 
Where,  union  rare,  expression's  lively  force, 
With  beauty's  softest  magic  holds  discourse, 

Attract  the  eye, 
Rouse  the  quick  passions,  and  inflame  the  heart. 

Churchill. 

Melinda  !  formed  with  every  grace  complete, 
Yet  these  neglecting,  above  beauty  wise.          Thomson. 


ROSE,  Mundi. 
Rosa  Tersicolor. 


Variety. 


Skilled  alike  to  dazzle  and  to  please.       .     .     .     Rogers. 

Each  look,  each  motion,  waked  a  new-born  grace, 

That  o'er  her  form  its  transient  glory  cast. 
Some  lovelier  wonder  soon  usurped  the  place, 
Chas'd  by  a  charm  still  lovelier  than  the  last. 

Mason. 

That  loveliness,  ever  in  motion,  which  plays 
Like  the  light  upon  autumn's  soft  shadowy  days, 
Now  here,  and  now  there,  giving  warmth  as  it  flies 
From  the  lips  to  the  cheek,  from  the  cheek  to  the  eyes — 
Now  melting  in  rnist,  and  now  breaking  in  gleams ; 
Like  the  glimpses  a  saint  hath  of  heav'n  in  his  dreams. 

Moore. 

She  stood  as  stands  a  rainbow  in  a  storm, 
Changing  its  hue  with  bright  variety, 
But  still  expanding  lovelier  o'er  the  sky, 
Howe'er  its  arch  may  swell,  its  colours  move, 


The  cloud-compelling  harbinger  of  love. 

As  sun-shine  dwells  upon  the  summer  wave, 
Changing  for  ever,  yet  for  ever  bright. 

New  beauties  rise  with  each  revolving  day. 


Byron. 


S.  P.  C. 


Thomson. 


ROSE,  Musk  cluster. 
Rosa  muschata. 


Charming. 


Where  the  power  that  charms  us  so, 
In  the  soul,  or  in  the  eye  ?     .     . 


Behold  a  nymph  with  ev'ry  virtue  graced, 
Minerva's  head  on  Venus'  shoulders  placed  ! 
Here's  beauty,  mental,  moral,  and  divine, 
To  charm  the  lover,  and  his  thoughts  refine. 


Waller. 


Anon. 


What 's  female  beauty,  but  an  air  divine, 

Through  which  the  mind's  all  gentle  graces  shine  ? 

They,  like  the  sun,  irradiate  all  between, 

The  body  charms,  because  the  soul  is  seen.          Young. 


With  artless  grace,  and  native  ease  she  charms. 


Darwin. 


ROSE,  Musk  cluster. 

(Continued.) 


Who  can  resist  her  charms  ? Young. 

Oh,  he  was  all  made  up  oflove  and  charms  : 

Whatever  maid  could  wish,  or  man  admire ; 

Delight  of  every  eye;  when  he  appear'd, 

A  secret  pleasure  gladden'd  all  that  saw  him  ; 

But,  when  he  talk'd,  the  proudest  Roman  blush'd 

To  hear  his  virtues,  and  old  age  grew  wise.       Addison, 


ROSE-BUD,  Red. 
Rosa  rubrifolia. 


You  are  young  and 
beautiful. 


She  's  young  and  fair — 
In  these,  to  nature  she  's  immediate  heir.     .     .     Shaks. 

Young  as  beautiful !  and  soft  as  young  ! 

And  gay  as  soft !  and  innocent  as  gay ! 

And  happy  [if  aught  happy  here]  as  good  !  Young. 

In  youth's  fresh  bloom  with  beauty  crown'd. 

jEschylus1  Agamemnon. 

Fair,  lovely  maiden — young  and  affable, 
More  clear  of  hue,  and  far  more  beautiful 
Than  precious  sardonix,  or  purple  rocks 
Of  amethyst,  or  glistering  hyacinth.     .     . 


Shaks. 


Eternal  youth 

O'er  all  her  form  its  glowing  honours  breath'd, 
And  smiles  eternal  from  her  candid  eyes 
Flow'd  like  the  dewy  lustre  of  the  morn, 
Effusive  trembling  on  the  placid  waves.       .     Akenside. 


Oh  !  would  that  life  were  ever  thus 
As  beautiful  and  gay 


.     .   W.B.G. 


ROSE,  Red,  full  blown. 

Rosa  rubrifolia. 


Beauty.  Oh  beauty  !  till  now  I  never  knew  thee.     .     .     .   Shaks. 

Lady,  thy  lofty  brow  is  fair, 

Beauty's  sign  and  seal  are  there. 

And  thy  lip  is  like  the  rose, 

Closing  round  the  bee's  repose.     .     .    S.   T.  Lawrence. 

The  faultless  form, 

Shap'd  by  the  hand  of  harmony ;  the  cheek 
Where  the  live  crimson,  through  the  native  white 
Soft-shooting,  o'er  the  face  diffuses  bloom, 
And  every  nameless  grace ;  the  parted  lip, 
Like  the  red  rose-bud,  moist  with  morning  dew, 
Breathing  delight ;     *         *         *         * 
The  look  resistless,  piercing  to  the  soul, 
And,  by  the  soul  inforrn'd,  when,  drest  in  love, 
She  sits  high-smiling  in  the  conscious  eye.       Thomson. 


ROSE,  Red.  The  brightness  ofher  cheek  would  shame  the  stars, 

As  daylight  doth  a  lamp  !  her  eye  in  heaven 
(Continued.)  Would  through  the  airy  region  stream  so  bright, 

That  birds  would  sing,  and  think  it  were  not  night. 

Shaks. 


ROSE,  Unique.  Call  me  not  beautiful\  Since  that  my  beauty  cannot  please  his  eye, 

Rosa  unica. 


I  '11  weep  what  's  left  away,  and  weeping,  die.  f  Shaks. 


How  sweetly  could  I  lay  my  head 

Within  the  cold  grave's  silent  breast, 

Where  sorrow's  tears  no  more  are  shed.        .    .    Moore. 

Would  I  could  die —  *  *  — and  be  at  peace  ! 
These  torments  in  the  quiet  grave  would  cease. 
There,  my  vex'd  thoughts  a  calm  repose  would  find. 

Lyttelton. 

When  will  heaven,  its  silent  bell  ringing, 

Call  my  spirit  from  this  stormy  world  ?        .     .    Moore. 


ROSE-BUD,  White.  A  heart  that  is  Mine,  is  the  freedom  of  the  soul, 

ignorant  of  love.    &**&  mine,  the  unconquer'd  will Dale. 

Rosa  alba. 

Do  not  disturb  our  calm,  oh  love  !      ....     Moore. 

-:,       By  love,  the  young  and  tender  wit 
Is  turn'd  to  folly ;  blasting  in  the  bud, 
Losing  his  verdure  even  in  the  prime, 
And  all  the  fair  effects  of  future  hopes.     .     .     .     Shaks. 

No — let  me  be 
"  In  maiden  meditation,  fancy  free  !"         ...     same. 

All  its  joys  and  pains  to  others  I  resign, 

Be  the  vacant  heart,  the  careless  bosom,  mine !     Moore. 

From  love's  weak  childish  vow  I  live  unharm'd. 

Shaks. 


ROSE,  White.  I  am  worthy  of  you.      By  all  this  heart  hath  borne  for  thee, 

By  all  it  suffers  now Anon. 

Rosa  alba. 

My  sufferings  for  you  make  your  heart  my  due. 

Dryden. 

Take  then  this  flower — 

The  perfume  of  its  faded  leaves,  triumphant  o'er  decay, 

May  whisper  of  my  changeless  love,  when  I  have  pass'd 

away Anon. 


ROSE,  White  Transient  impressions.     What  speaks  the  pale  and  drooping  flower? 

and  withered.  Of  joy  that  withers  in  an  hour !        ....     T.  Dale. 

Quickly  wither'd  like  your  love  away.      .    .    .    Anon. 

Love,  hitherto  a  transient  guest, 

Ne'er  held  possession  in  his  breast.       ....    Swift. 

Lightly  won,  and  lightly  lost,  love,  I  shed  no  tears  for 

thee  ; 
There  was  little  to  remember,  and  nothing  to  regret. 

L.  E.  L. 

I  have  no  parting  sigh  to  give, 

So  take  my  parting  smile same. 


ROSE,  without  a  thorn. 

Rosa  inermis. 


Ingratitude. 


If  there  be  a  crime 

Of  deeper  dye  than  all  the  guilty  train 
Of  human  vices,  'tis — ingratitude. 

Dr.  Thomas  Franklin's  Earl  of  Warwick. 

How  oft  does  seeming  worth,  that  thornless  rose, 
Caress'd  and  nurtured  by  affection's  hand, 
Shoot  out  ingratitude's  rough  thorns,  and  wound 
The  gentle  hand  that  tends  it S.  P.  C. 


Ah,  me  !  how  oft  does  goodness  wound  itself, 
And  sweet  affection  prove  the  spring  of  wo. 


Shake. 


ROSE,  Yellow. 


Yellow  Sweet  Briar. 


Rosa  lutea. 


The  decrease  of  love,      Tne  warmest  love  may  sink  by  slow  decay 
on  belter  acquaintance. 


Byron. 


For  several  virtues,  I  have  liked  several  women ; 
Never  any  with  so  full  soul,  but  some  defect  in  her 
Did  quarrel  with  the  noblest  grace  she  ow'd, 
And  put  it  to  the  foil Shaks. 


ROSE,  York  and  Lancaster. 

Rosa  versicolor. 


War.  Such  war  of  white  and  red  within  her  cheeks.      Shaks. 

./* 

There  is  a  white  cloud  o'er  the  moon,  its  form 

Is  very  light,  and  yet  there  sleeps  the  storm ; 

It  is  an  omen,  it  may  tell  the  fate 

Of  love  known  all  too  soon,  repented  all  too  late. 

Thomson's  Masquerade. 


A  chase  of  idle  hopes  and  fears, 
Begun  in  folly,  closed  in  tears. 

The  beacon  sign  of  inward  strife, 
Was  that  cheek's  flushing  red. 


Byron. 


.    .    L.E.L. 


ROSE,  York  and  Lancaster. 

(Continued,) 


That  proud  heart  had  been  given  to  one 
Who  sought  it  not  to  win — 

And  now  she  only  strove  to  hide 

The  burning  shame  within.      .     .     . 


.    L.  E.L. 


ROSE,  Campion. 
Agrostemma. 


Only  deserve  my  love.    Our  hearts  ne'er  bow  but  to  superior  worth  ; 
And  never  fail  of  their  allegiance  there. 


Young. 


The  soul  of  music  slumbers  in  the  shell, 

Till  waked  and  kindled  by  the  master  spell ; 

And  feeling  hearts — touch  them  but  lightly,  pour 

A  thousand  melodies  unheard  before.      .     .     .     Rovers. 


My  love  is  thine  to  teach ;  teach  it  but  how, 
And  thou  shall  see  how  apt  it  is  to  learn 
Any  hard  lesson  that  may  do  thee  good. 


Skaks. 


ROSEMARY. 
Rosmarinus  officinalis. 


Keep  this  remembrance  for  thy  Julia's  sake.     .    S/iaks. 

She  sent  him  rosemary,  to  the  intent  that  he  should  hold 
her  in  remembrance Draylon. 

Answer* 

She  placed  it  sad,  with  needless  fear, 
Lest  time  should  shake  my  wavering  soul — 
Unconscious  that  her  image  there 
Held  every  sense  in  fast  control.    .     .     . 


Byron. 


Oh !  only  those 

Whose  souls  have  felt  this  one  idolatry, 
Can  tell  how  precious  is  the  slightest  thing 
Affection  gives  and  hallows  !     A  dead  flower 
Will  long  be  kept,  remembrancer  of  looks 
That  made  each  leaf  a  treasure.       .... 
•/    I 


L.  E.  L. 


RUE. 

Ruta  graveolens. 


Disdain.  She  I  love,  or  laughs  at  all  my  pain, 

Or  knows  her  worth  too  well,  and  pays  me  with  disdain. 

Dry  den. 

Disdain  and  scorn  ride  sparkling  in  her  eyes, 
Misprizing  what  they  look  upon Shaks. 

Oh  !  to  be  in  love,  where  scorn  is  bought  with  groans ;  coy 

looks 

With  heart-sore  sighs;  one  fading  moment's  mirth, 
With  twenty  watchful,  weary,  tedious  nights !        same. 

Answer. 

Can  this  be  true  ? 

Stand  I  condemn'd  for  pride  and  scorn  so  much  ? 
Contempt,  farewell !  and,  maiden  pride,  adieu  ! 
No  glory  lives  behind  the  back  of  such. 


RUE. 


(Continued.) 


And,  Benedict,  love  on,  I  will  requite  thee, 
Taming  my  wild  heart  to  thy  loving  hand ; 
For  others  say  thou  dost  deserve,  and  I 
Believe  it  better  than  reportingly.    .     . 


Shake. 


SAGE.  Domestic  Virtues. 

Salvia  officinalis. 


Nothing  lovelier  can  be  found 
In  woman,  than  to  study  household  good ; 
And  good  works  in  her  husband  to  promote. 


Milton. 


A  woman's  noblest  station  is  retreat : 
Her  fairest  virtues  fly  from  public  sight ; 
Domestic  worth — that  shuns  too  strong  a  light. 

Lyttelton. 

Domestic  happiness,  thou  only  bliss 
Of  paradise,  that  hast  surviv'd  the  fall ! 
*        *         *         * 

Thou  art  the  nurse  of  virtue ;  in  thine  arms 
She  smiles,  appearing,  as  in  truth  she  is, 
Heav'n-born,  and  destin'd  to  the  skies  again.      Cowper. 

'  To  give  society  its  highest  taste ; 
Well-order'd  home  man's  best  delight  to  make ; 
And,  by  submissive  wisdom,  modest  skill, 
With  every  gentle,  care-deluding  art, 
To  raise  the  virtues,  animate  the  bliss, 
And  sweeten  all  the  toils  of  human  life : 
This  be  the  female  dignity  and  praise.    .     .     Thomson. 

I  've  heard  my  honest  uncle  often  say, 

That  lads  should  a'  for  wives  that  's  virtuous  pray ; 

For  the  maist  thrifty  man  could  never  get 

A  weel-stor'd  room,  unless  his  wife  wad  let. 

Allan  Ramsay. 


SCABIOUS, 
Dark  purple. 

Scabiosa  atro-purpurea. 


Unfortunate  attach- 
ment. 


Oh,  love !  how  are  thy  precious,  sweetest  moments 
Thus  ever  cross'd,  thus  vex'd  with  disappointments  ! 

Rowe's  Ulysses. 

Such  is  the  posie  love  composes ; 
A  stinging  nettle  mixed  with  roses Brown. 


Have  blissful  thoughts  allur'd  thee  on, 
And  faded  when  most  fair  ? 

The  look — the  tone  of  bliss  is  gone, — 
Love  has  been  there 


T.  Bayley. 


The  maid  that  loves, 
Goes  out  to  sea  upon  a  shattered  plank, 
And  puts  her  trust  in  miracles  for  safety. 


Young. 


Ah,  Zelica !  there  was  a  time  when  bliss 
Shone  o'er  thy  heart  from  every  look  of  his ; 
When  but  to  see  him,  hear  him,  breathe  the  air 
In  which  he  dwelt,  was  thy  soul's  fondest  prayer  ! 


SCABIOUS. 

(Continued.) 


When  round  him  hung  such  a  perpetual  spell, 
Whate'er  he  did,  none  ever  did  so  well. 
Too  happy  days  !  when,  if  he  touch'd  a  flower 
Or  gem  of  thine,  'twas  sacred  from  that  hour ; 
When  thou  didst  study  him,  till  every  tone, 
And  gesture,  and  dear  look,  became  thy  own. 


Moore. 


SCARLET  LYCHNIS. 
Lychnis  chalcedonica. 


X- 

Sun-beamed  eyes.    Her  glance,  how  wildly  beautiful/.    . 

Soul  beam'd  forth  in  every  spark 
That  darted  from  beneath  the  lid, 
Bright  as  the  jewel  of  Giamschid.     .     . 


Byron. 


In  her  two  eyes  two  living  lamps  did  flame, 

Kindled  above,  at  the  heavenly  light, 

And  darting  fiery  beams  out  of  tho  same, 

So  passing  pearceant,  and  so  wondrous  bright, 

That  quite  bereav'd  the  rash  beholders  of  their  sight. 

Spencer. 

And  then  her  look — Oh,  where  's  the  heart  so  wise, 
Could,  unbewilder'd,  meet  those  matchless  eyes  ? 
Quick,  restless,  strange,  but  exquisite  withal, 

Like  those  of  angels Moore. 

/ 
So  by  thy  bright  eye's  glowing  beam, 

I  court,  as  it  were,  my  undoing ; 
And  although  but  to  torture  they  gleam, 

I  knowingly  rush  to  my  ruin tame. 

J 
Thus  the  moth  round  a  tremulous  light, 

With  quivering  wing  still  will  turn, 
And  merely  because  it  is  bright, 

Although  once  he  has  felt  it  can  burn.     .     .     .  same. 

And  see  the  danger  which  we  cannot  shun.        Dryden. 


SNAP  DRAGON. 
Antirrhinum. 


Presumption.  Minds  somewhat  raised 

By  false  presumptuous  hope  !        Milton. 


Answer. 
With  looks  that  asked,  yet  dared  not  hope  relief. 


Rogers. 


I  was  indeed  delirious  in  my  heart, 
To  lift  my  love  so  lofty  as  thou  art. 
That  thou  wert  beautiful,  and  I  not  blind, 

Hath  been  my  sin  ; 
To  love  too  much — has  been  the  only  art  I  used. 


Byron. 


SNAP  DRAGON. 

(Continued.) 


If 'tis  presumption  for  a  wretch  condemned, 

To  throw  himself  beneath  his  judges'  feet : 

A  boldness  more  than  this,  I  never  knew.      .     Dryden. 

There  is  a  pleasure,  sure, 

In  being  mad,  which  none  but  madmen  know  ! 

Let  me  indulge  it :  let  me  gaze  for  ever  ! 

And,  since  you  are  too  great  to  be  belov'd, 

Be  greater,  greater  yet — and  be  ador'd.     .     .     .    tame. 


SNOW  BALL. 
Viburnum  opulus. 


To  bind. 


I  will  make  a  desperate  tender  of  my  love  !      .      Shaks. 

If  thou  dost  love,  my  kindness  shall  incite  thee 

To  bind  our  loves  up  in  a  holy  band same. 

For,  if  you  will  be  married  to-morrow,  you  shall ; 

And  to  Rosalind,  if  you  will same. 

Answer. 

I  will  marry  thee — if  ever  I  marry  woman, 

And  I  '11  be  married  to-morrow same. 

So  is  the  forehead  of  a  married  man,  more 

Honourable  than  the  bare  brow  of  a  bachelor.    .     fame. 


SNOW  DROP.  Refinement. 

Galanthus  nivalis. 


*       «       *       *       *       Love  refines 
The  thoughts,  and  heart  enlarges ;  hath  his  seat 
In  reason Milton. 

Love,  studious  how  to  please,  improves  our  parts 
With  polish'd  manners,  and  adorns  with  arts.    Dryden. 

Love  made  an  active  progress  through  his  mind, 
The  dusky  parts  he  clear'd,  the  gross  refin'd, 

The  drowsy  wak'd same. 

By  love,  his  want  of  words  and  wit  he  found, 

That  sense  of  want  prepared  the  future  way 

To  knowledge,  and  disclos'd  the  promise  of  a  day. 

Love  taught  him  shame;  and  shame,  with  love  at  strife, 

Soon  taught  the  sweet  civilities  of  life.     .     .     .      same. 


SORREL,  Wild.  Wit  ill  timed.  He  makes  a  foe,  who  makes  a  jest Gay. 

Oxalis.  Intemperate  wits  will  spare  neither  friend  nor  foe. 

L1  Estrange. 


SORREL,  Wild. 

(Continued.) 


The  world's  large  tongue 
Proclaims  you  for  a  man  replete  with  mocks ; 
Full  of  comparisons,  and  wounding  flouts ; 
Which  you  on  all  estates  will  execute, 
That  lie  within  the  mercy  of  your  wit.        .     .    Shaks, 

Wit,  how  delicious  to  man's  dainty  taste  ! 
'Tis  precious  as  the  vehicle  of  sense ; 
But,  as  its  substitute,  a  dire  disease. 
Pernicious  talent !  flattered  by  the  world, 
By  the  blind  world,  which  thinks  the  talent  rare. 


Young. 


Wit,  makes  an  enterpriser ;  sense,  a  man. 


Wit,  widow'd  of  good  sense,  is  worse  than  nought ; 

It  hoists  more  sail  to  run  against  a  rock.       .     .    same. 


SPEEDWELL. 
Veronica. 


Female  fidelity.  Oh !  woman's  love  's  a  holy  light, 

And  when  'tis  kindled,  ne'er  can  die, 
It  lives,  though  treachery  and  slight 
To  quench  the  constant  flame  may  try. 

A 

Like  ivy,  where  it  grows  'tis  seen 

To  wear  an  everlasting  green  : 

Like  ivy,  too,  'tis  found  to  cling 

Too  often  round  a  worthless  thing Anon. 

Pure,  as  the  snow  the  summer  sun 
Never  at  noon  hath  look'd  upon — 
Deep,  as  is  the  diamond  wave, 
Hidden  in  the  desert  cave — 
Changeless,  as  the  greenest  leaves 
Of  the  wreath  the  cypress  weaves — 
Hopeless,  often,  when  most  fond — 
Without  hope  or  fear  beyond 

Its  own  pale  fidelity —  _ 

And  this  woman's  love  can  be.     /   .     .     .     .     L.  E.  L. 


SPIDER  WORT. 

Tradescantia  virginica. 


/  esteem,  but  do  not 
love  you. 


There  's  something  tells  me,  (but  it  is  not  love,) 

I  would  not  lose  you  ;  and  you  know  yourself, 

Hate  counsels  not  in  such  a  quality.        .    .     .     Shaks. 

Oh,  do  not  talk  to  me  of  love, 

'Tis  deepest  cruelty  to  me — 

Why  throw  a  net  around  the  bird, 

That  might  be  happy,  light,  and  free  ?     .     Westmacott. 

There  is  in  love  a  ceaseless  vestal  flame, 

Oh,  surely  this  is  not  what  thou  wouldst  claim ; 

The  pledge  of  friendship  (wilt  thou  not  receive  ?) 

Is  truly  yours — 'tis  all  my  heart  can  give.     .     .    <S**n. 


STAR  OF  BETHLEHEM.        Reconciliation. 

Ornithogalum. 


Love  quarrels  oft  in  pleasing  concord  end.  Milton. 

I  would  have  my  love 

Angry  sometimes,  to  sweeten  off  the  rest  of  her  be- 
haviour. B.  Jonson. 

And  well  do  vanish'd  frowns  enhance 
The  charm  of  every  brighten'd  glance  ; 
And  dearer  seems  each  dawning  smile, 
For  having  lost  its  light  awhile.     .     .    . 


Moore. 


The  short  passing  anger  but  seem'd  to  awaken 
New  beauty,  like  flowers  that  are  sweetest  when  shaken. 

same. 

*****        No  cloud 
Of  anger  shall  remain ;  but  peace  assur'd 
And  reconcilement. Milton. 


ST.  JOHN'S  WORT. 
Hypericum. 


Superstition.  Lovely  beyond  the  painter's  brightest  dream, 

Vision  of  beauty  !     Can  it  be  of  earth — 
Or,  is  it  some  celestial  habitant 
Of  yonder  gorgeous  palaces  of  air, 
Built  by  the  genii  in  the  evening  sky  ?     .     .     S.  P.  C. 


I  took  it  for  a  fairy  vision 
Of  some  gay  creatures  of  the  element, 
That  in  the  colours  of  the  rainbow  live, 
And  play  i'  th'  plighted  clouds.     .     .     . 


Say  from  what  far  and  sunny  shore, 
Fair  wonder,  thou  dost  rove  ; 

Lest  what  I  only  should  adore, 

I  heedless  think  to  love 


Milton. 


C***e. 


STRAWBERRY  TREE. 

Arbutus. 


Esteem  and  Love. 


O,  why  is  gentle  love 
A  stranger  to  that  mind, 
Which  pity  and  esteem  can  move, 
Which  can  be  just  and  kind.      .     . 


Lyttelton. 


Love  is  not  love, 

When  it  is  mingled  with  respects,  that  stand 
Aloof  from  the  entire  point Shakt. 

Friendship,  when  we  ask  for  love,  is  like  the  fra- 
grance of  remote  flowers,  that  faintly  touches  the 
senses ;  or,  like  the  beams  of  the  chaste  moon  that 
gives  us  light,  but  yields  not  warmth.  .  S.  Johnson. 

I  do  love  you  more  than  words  can  wield  the  matter. 

***** 

A  love  that  makes  breath  poor,  and  speech  unable.    . 

Sfiaks. 


STRAWBERRY  TREE. 

(Continued.) 


And  long  experience  of  your  goodness — 
What  then  was  passion,  is  my  judgment  now. 
Through  all  the  several  changes  of  your  life, 
Confirm'd  and  settled  in  adoring  you. 

Haynes"1  Fatal  Mistake. 


For  all  true  love  is  grounded  on  esteem. 


Buckingham. 


SUMACH,  Venice.  Splendour. 

Rhus  cotinus. 


, 


To  splendour  only  do  we  live  ? 

Must  pomp  alone  our  thoughts  employ  ? 

All,  all  that  pomp  and  splendour  give, 

Is  dearly  bought  with  love  and  joy  !         .      Cartwright. 


Can  wealth  give  happiness  ?  look  round  and  see 

What  gay  distress  !  what  splendid  misery  ! 

I  envy  none  their  pageantry  and  show, 

I  envy  none  the  gilding  of  their  wo.       .     .     .     Young. 

\ 
No  flocks,  nor  herds,  nor  stores  of  gold, 

Nor  house,  nor  home  have  I, 
If  beauty  must  be  bought  and  sold, 

Alas  !  /  cannot  buy  !     .......     Old  song. 

Answer. 


Truth,  the  sunshine  of  the  breast, 

Were  Armine's  wealth,  were  Armine's  fame. 


No  wealth  nor  pow'r  had  he, 
Wisdom  and  worth  were  all  he  had, 
But  these  were  all  to  me  ! 


Cartwright. 


Goldsmith. 


^erit  like  his,  the  fortune  of  the  mind, 
Beggars  all  wealth. 

Thomson's  Tancred  and  Sigismunda. 

I  feel  I  love  him,  and,  in  that  word  are  contained  birth, 
feme,  and  riches  .....     O'Keefe.     Wild  Oats. 


Oh  !  if  gold  could  win  his  heart, 
I  should  from  the  search  depart. 


L.  E.  L. 


"  What  can  wealth  be  to  that  young  heart 

Which  has  a  mine  of  treasure  in  its  own  fresh  feelings?" 


SUN  FLOWER,  Dwarf. 


Helianthus  indicus. 


Your  devout  adorer.    Oh !  the  heart  that  has  truly  lov'd  never  forgets, 

But  as  truly  loves  on  to  the  close ; 
As  the  sun-flower  turns  on  her  god,  when  he  sets, 
The  same  look  which  she  gave  when  he  rose. 

Moore. 


SUN  FLOWER,  Dwarf. 


(Continued.) 


The  moon  looks 

On  many  brooks, 

The  brook  can  see  no  moon  but  this  : 
And  thus  I  thought  our  fortunes  run, 
For  many  a  lover  looks  to  thee  : 
While,  oh  !  I  feel  there  is  but  one, 
One  Mary  in  the  world  for  me.       .     . 


Moore. 


Her  words  such  a  pleasure  convey, 
So  much  I  her  accents  adore, 

Let  her  speak,  and  whatever  she  say, 
Methinks  I  should  love  her  the  more. 


Shenstone. 


SUN  FLOWER,  Tall.     Pride. 


Helianthus  annuus. 


Haughtiness.    The  sun-flower,  with  gaudy  display, 

Above  all  the  garden  around 
Exhibits  his  golden  array, 

As  if  scorning  to  spring  from  the  ground. 

He  lifts  his  proud  head  to  the  sky, 
And  seeks  the  broad  blaze  of  the  day, 

But  the  poet,  and  lover,  pass  by, 
And  turn  from  his  glory  away  : 

In  some  spot,  more  sequester'd,  to  find 
A  delicate  flower  of  the  morn, 

Whose  fragrance  and  beauty  combin'd, 
His  bower  and  his  bosom  adorn.  .  .  . 


.  B.L.L. 


The  proud  giant  of  the  garden  race, 
O'ertops  his  fellows  with  aspiring  aim. 


Churchill. 


The  gaudy  orient  sun-flower  from  the  crowd 

Uplifts  its  golden  circle Maturin. 


SWEET  BRIAR.  Simplicity. 

Rosa  suaveolens. 


Fair  nature's  sweet  simplicity 
With  elegance  refined.     .     .     , 


The  feeling  heart,  simplicity  of  life, 
And  elegance,  and  taste 


Lyttelton. 


Thomson. 


So  artless,  so  simple,  so  wild — 

Thou  emblem,  said  I,  of  my  Phillis, 

For  she  is  simplicity's  child. 

The  rose-bud 's  the  blush  of  my  charmer, 

Her  sweet  balmy  lip  when  'tis  prest ; 
How  fair  and  how  pure  is  the  lily, 

But  fairer  and  purer  her  breast.     .... 


Burns. 


•*•• 


SWEET  BRIAR. 

(Continued.) 


Beautiful  one  !  Thy  look  and  tone 

Of  witchery  are  nature 'sown — 

Like  light  from  heaven,  thy  magic  glance — 

Thy  voice,  the  harp's  wild  utterance, 

When  touch'd  at,  eve  by  some  spirit's  hand, 

It  breathes  the  notes  of  the  better  land.     .     .     S.  P.  C. 


SWEET  WILLIAM. 
Dianthus  barbatus. 


Finesse. 


Griefs,  alas !  that  may  not  speak, 

Earn  poor  relief  by  feigning B.  Chester. 

/> 

Many  a  withering  thought  lies  hid,  not  lost, 

In  smiles,  that  least  befit  who  wear  them  most.    Byron. 

So  the  cheek  may  be  ting'd  with  a  warm  sunny  smile, 
Though  the  cold  heart  to  ruin  runs  darkly  the  while. 

Moore. 

An  outward  firmness,  whate'er  lurk'd  below.      L.  E.  L. 

Her  cheek  was  red,  but  who  could  know 
'Twas  flushing  with  the  strife  below  ? 
Her  eye  was  bright,  but  who  could  tell 
It  shone  with  tears  she  strove  to  quell? 

*  *  *  # 

Ah  !  who  could  think  that  all  so  fair 
Was  semblance,  and  but  misery  there  ?.    .     .     .     same. 

*4 

This  perturbation  smooth'd  with  outward  calm.   Milton. 


SYRINGA,  Carolina. 
Philadelphus  inodorus. 


Disappointment.      \  Bright  blown  hopes  dispersed  in  air !     .     .     .      M.  /.  /. 

That  keep  the  word  of  promise  to  our  ear, 

And  break  it  in  our  hope Shaks. 


Thus  ever  fade  my  fairy  dreams  of  bliss  ! 


Byron. 


Oh  !  ever  thus,  from  childhood's  hour, 

I  've  seen  my  fondest  hopes  decay Moore. 

'Tis  ever  thus,  'tis  ever  thus,  when  hope  has  built  a 

bower, 
Like  that  of  Eden,  wreath'd  about  with  ev'ry  thornless 

flower, 

To  dwell  therein  securely,  the  self-deceiver's  trust, 
A  whirlwind  from  the  desert  comes — and  all  is  in  the 

dust Anon. 

I  clasp'd  the  phantoms,  and  I  found  them  air. 

Oh  !  had  I  weigh'd  it  ere  my  fond  embrace, 

What  darts  of  agony  had  miss'd  my  heart.     .     Young. 


THISTLE. 

Carduus. 


Misanthropy. 


He  ponders  on  the  world — abhors  the  whole !       Rogers. 

Oh !  that  the  desert  were  my  dwelling  place, 

*  *  * 

That  I  might  forget  all  the  human  race  !    .     .    Byron. 

He  sought  in  solitude  to  lose  his  cares ; 

Relief  in  solitude  he  sought  in  vain, 

It  serv'd,  like  music,  but  to  feed  his  pain.     .     .     .  Gay. 


THORN  APPLE. 
Datura  stramonium. 


Deceitful  charms.          An  j  that  deceit  should  steal  such  gentle  shapes. 


Shake. 

Are  words,  then,  only  false  ?  are  there  no  looks 

Mute,  but  most  eloquent  ?     .     .     .     .     L.  E.  L. 

That  mute  eloquence  which  passes  speech.     .    Rogers. 

Mine  eyes 

Were  not  in  fault,  for  she  was  beautiful ; 
Mine  ears,  that  heard  her  flattery ;  nor  mine  heart, 
That  thought  her  like  her  seeming  ;  it  had  been  vicious 
To  have  mistrusted  her Shake. 

Ah,  how  have  I  deserv'd,  inhuman  maid  ! 

To  have  my  faithful  service  thus  repaid  ? 

Were  all  the  marks  of  kindness  I  receiv'd 

But  dreams  of  joy,  that  charm'd  me  and  deceiv'd  ? 

Or,  did  you  only  nurse  my  growing  love, 

That  with  more  pain  I  might  your  hatred  prove  ? 

Lyttelton. 


THYME. 
Thymus. 


Activity. 


h 


I  would  chide  hasty-footed  time  for  parting  us.     Shaks. 

But  now  the  moments  bring 
The  time  of  parting,  with  redoubled  wing.     .       Byron. 


Ah  !  never  does  time  travel  faster, 

Than  when,  his  way  lies  among  flowers,  v.  . 


Moore. 


For  things  so  heavenly  have  such  fleetness.     .      same. 

As  I  listened  to  thee, 

The  happy  hours  pass'd  by  us  unperceived, 
So  was  my  soul  fix'd  to  the  soft  enchantment. 

Rowe's  Tamerlane. 


TUBEROSE. 

Polianthes  tuberosa. 


Le  plus  loin,  le  plus       How  love  can  trifle  with  itself! 

cher.  Fie  '  fie  •  how  wayward  is  this  foolish  love  !     . 

It  so  falls  out, 

That  what  we  have,  we  prize  not  to  the  worth 
Whiles  we  enjoy  it ;  but,  being  lack'd  and  lost, 


Shaks. 


TUBEROSE. 

(Continued.) 


Why,  then,  we  rack  the  value  :  then,  we  find 
The  virtue  that  possession  would  not  show  us 

Whiles  it  was  ours Shaks. 

What  our  contempts  do  often  hurl  from  us, 

We  wish  it  ours  again same. 

Mysterious  love,  uncertain  treasure, 
Hast  thou  more  of  pain  or  pleasure  ? 
Endless  torments  dwell  about  thee, 
Yet  who  would  live,  and  live  without  thee  ? 

Addison'g  Rosamond. 


By  all  the  token  flowers  that  tell 
What  words  can  never  tell  so  well. 


^  Every  thing  seems  drear  without  thee  !, .    . 


Byron. 
.    Moore. 


TULIP,  Red. 
Tulipa. 


A  declaration  of  love. 


Who  could  refrain,  that  had  a  heart  to  love, 
And  courage  to  make  his  love  known  ?     .     . 


Shaks. 


No  wonder  that  my  heart  was  moved, 
'Twere  marvel,  if  I  had  not  loved. 


.     L.  E.  L. 


What  should  I  say, 

Or  how  begin  the  strain  ? 

These  passions  how  contain, 

That  in  my  throbbing  breast  tumultuous  spring  ? 

JEschylus.     The  Choephoree. 

Thou — thou  hast  metamorphos'd  me ; 
Made  me  neglect  my  studies,  lose  my  time, 
War  with  good  counsel,  set  the  world  at  nought, 
Made  wit  with  musing,  weak,  heart-sick  with  thought. 

Shaks. 

In  mine,  survey 
A  heart  that  's  yours  alone ; 
Long  has  it  own'd  Elvira's  sway, 
Though  long  unnotic'd  and  unknown.      .     Carlwright. 


TULIP,  Yellow.  Hopeless  love.  What  youth  so  cold  could  view  unmov'd 

The  maid  that  ev'ry  beauty  shar'd  ? 
Her  Armine  saw ;  he  saw ;  he  lov'd  ; 
He  lov'd — alas  !  and  he  despaired.     .     .     .   Cartwright. 

I  know  thou  doom'st  me  to  despair, 

Nor  wilt,  nor  canst  relieve  me  ; 

But,  ah,  Eliza,  hear  my  prayer, — 

For  pity's  sake  forgive  me  ! Burns. 


TULIP,  Yellow. 

(Continued.) 


\  The  music  of  thy  voice  I  heard, 
Nor  wist  while  it  enslav'd  me; 
I  saw  thine  eyes,  yet  nothing  fear'd, 
Till  fears  no  more  had  saved  me.  . 


Burns. 


By  day  or  night,  in  weal  or  wo, 

This  heart  no  longer  free, 
Must  bear  the  love  it  cannot  show, 

And  silent  ache  for  thee Byron. 

t- 
Successful  love  may  sate  itself  away, 

The  wretched  are  the  faithful;  'tis  their  fate 

To  have  all  feeling,  save  the  one,  decay, 

And  every  passion  into  one  dilate, 

As  rapid  rivers  into  ocean  pour.  \ same. 

The  pain  I  bear, 
No  thought  can  figure,  and  no  tongue  declare.        Prior. 

I  cannot,  nay,  I  wish  not  to  be  cured.      .     .     .  Dryden. 

Answer. 

This  love  that  thou  hast  shown, 

Doth  add  more  grief,  to  too  much  of  mine  own. 

Shaks. 

Thy  piercing  griefs, 
Bewailing  thus  the  miseries  of  thy  fate, 
Strike  deep  ;  they  wound  me  to  the  very  soul. 

JEachylus"1  Agamemnon. 

Those  tears  may  tell  thee  while  they  start, 

How  all  thy  griefs  endear  thee.        Song  by  W.  Smyth. 


TULIP  TREE,  Blossom.      Rural  happiness. 
Liriodendron  tulipifera. 


What  happiness  the  rural  maid  attends, 
In  cheerful  labour  while  each  day  she  spends ! 
She  gratefully  receives  what  Heaven  has  sent, 
And,  rich  in  poverty,  enjoys  content. 

*  *  *  * 

She  never  feels  the  spleen's  imagin'd  pains, 
Nor  melancholy  stagnates  in  her  veins  ; 
She  never  loses  life  in  thoughtless  ease, 
Nor  on  the  velvet  couch  invites  disease; 
Her  home-spun  dress  in  simple  neatness  lies, 
And  for  no  glaring  equipage  she  sighs  : 
*         *         *        * 

No  midnight  masquerade  her  beauty  wears, 
And  health,  not  paint,  the  fading  bloom  repairs. 

The  spleen  is  seldom  felt  where  Flora  reigns ; 
The  low'ring  eye,  the  petulance,  the  frown, 
And  sullen  sadness,  that  o'ershade,  distort, 
And  mar  the  face  of  beauty,  when  no  cause 


Gay. 


TULIP  TREE,  Blossom. 

(Continued.) 


For  such  immeasurable  wo  appears, 

These  Flora  banishes,  and  gives  the  fair 

Sweet  smiles,  and  bloom  less  transient  than  her  own. 

Cowper. 

O,  friendly  to  the  best  pursuits  of  man, 

Friendly  to  thought,  to  virtue,  and  to  peace, 

Domestic  life  in  rural  pleasures  past same. 

You  who  the  sweets  of  rural  life  have  known, 

Despise  the  ungrateful  hurry  of  the  town.       .    .     Gay. 


VENUS'  LOOKING-GLASS. 
Campanula  speculum. 


Flattery.  Thy  words  were  courtly  flattery,  such  sink  like  morn- 

ing dew, 

But,  oh !  love  takes  another  tone,  the  tender  and  the 
true, L.E.L. 

I  '11  mark  no  words  that  smooth-faced  wooers  say. 

Shaks. 

/ 

Think'st  thou  I  am  so  shallow,  so  conceitless, 

To  be  seduced  by  thy  flattery, 

That  hast  deceived  so  many  with  thy  vows  ?  ,       Shake. 

Answer. 
Think  not  I  flatter,  for  I  swear  I  do  not.        .     .    same. 

Yet  sure  whene'er  the  praise  is  just, 

One  may  commend,  without  disgust. 

If  'tis  offence,  such  truths  to  tell, 

Why  do  your  merits  thus  excel  ? Gay. 


VERBENA  ; 
or,  Vervain. 


Sensibility. 


Sensibility,  how  charming, 
Thou,  my  friend,  canst  truly  tell ; 
But  distress,  with  horrors  arming, 
Thou  hast  also  known  too  well ! 
•  •  • 

Dearly  bought,  the  hidden  treasure, 
Finer  feelings  can  bestow  ! 
Chords  that  vibrate  sweetest  pleasure, 
Thrill  the  deepest  notes  of  wo.       .    . 


Burns. 


Where  glow  exalted  sense,  and  taste  refin'd, 
There  keener  anguish  rankles  in  the  mind ; 
There  feeling  is  diffus'd  through  every  part ; 
Thrills  in  each  nerve,  and  lives  in  all  the  heart. 

Hannah  More. 

The  heart  that  is  soonest  awake  to  the  flowers, 
Is  always  the  first  to  be  touch'd  by  the  thorns.     Moore. 


VIOLET,  Blue. 
Viola  odorata. 


Love. 


For  thee  I  '11  lock  up  all  the  gates  of  love.     .     .    Shake. 

Love,  then,  hath  every  bliss  in  store : 

'Tis  friendship,  and  'tis  something  more. 

Not  to  know  love,  is  not  to  live Gay. 

Love  is  a  celestial  harmony 

Of  likely  hearts,  composed  of  stars'  consent, 

Which  join  together,  in  sweet  sympathy, 

To  work  each  other's  joy  and  sweet  content.    Spencer. 

Endearing  strife, 

That  carries  friendship  to  her  noon-tide  point, 
And  gives  the  rivet  to  eternity Young. 

What  can  earth  produce  but  love 

To  represent  the  joys  above Anon. 


A  woman's  love,  deep  in  the  heart, 
Is  like  the  violet  flower, 

That  lifts  its  modest  head  apart 
In  some  sequester'd  bower. 


Anon. 


Unhappy  fate  of  doubtful  maid  ! 
Her  tears  may  fall,  her  bosom  swell, 
But  even  to  the  desert  ^hade 
She  never  must  her  secret  tell. 


W.  Smyth. 


The  love-sick  violet,  and  primrose  pale, 

Bow  their  sweet  heads,  and  whisper  to  the  gale. 

Darwin. 


VIOLET,  White. 
V.  O. 


Modesty. 


Sweet  as  spring-time  flowers  ! Shaks. 

The  blushing  beauties  of  a  modest  maid. 

Dryden's  Ovid. 

Her  looks  do  argue  her  replete  with  modesty.       Shaks • 

The  violet 's  for  modesty,  which  weel  she  sets  to  wear. 

Burns. 

The  meek  mountain  daisy,  with  delicate  crest, 
And  the  violet  whose  eye  told  the  heaven  of  her  breast. 

Mrs.  Sigourney. 

The  modest  virtues  mingled  in  her  eyes — 
Still  on  the  ground  dejected,  darting  all 
Their  humid  beams  into  the  blooming  flowers. 

Thomson. 


And  such,  methought,  whilst  bending  to  the  stem, 
Is  modest  virtue's  pure  and  simple  gem ; 


VIOLET,  White. 


(Continued.) 


No  ostentatious  wish  to  seek  for  praise, 
But  still  retiring  from  the  public  gaze, 
It  spreads  its  sweet  beneficence  around, 
And,  by  the  fame  it  shuns,  can  but  be  found. 

H.  K.  White. 


VIRGIN'S  BOWER.  Filial  lone. 

Clematis. 


My  mother  !  at  that  holy  name, 

Within  my  bosom  there  's  a  gush 
Of  feeling,  which  no  time  can  tame, 
A  feeling,  which,  for  years  of  fame, 
I  would  not,  could  not  crush. 


.     G.  P.  Morris. 


Can  I  forget  thy  cares,  from  helpless  years — 

Thy  tenderness  for  me  ?     An  eye  still  beam'd 

With  love  ?     A  brow  that  never  knew  a  frown  ? 

Nor  a  harsh  word  thy  tongue  ?       ....     Thomson. 

Can  I  ever  cease  to  be 
Affectionate  arid  kind  to  thee, 
Who  wast  so  very  kind  to  me  ? 

My  Mother ! 

Oh,  no  !  the  thought  I  cannot  bear, 
And  if  God  please  my  life  to  spare, 
I  hope  I  shall  reward  thy  care, 

My  Mother !     .     .     .     Anon. 

And  may  reproach  transmit  my  name  abhorr'd 
To  latest  time — if  ever  thought  was  mine 
Unjust  to  filial  reverence — filial  love. 

"My  Father!"      .     Mallet. 


WALL  FLOWER.        Fidelity  in  misfortune. 


Cheiranthus  cheiri. 


Ne'er  in  his  woes 
Will  I  forsake  whom  my  soul  holds  most  dear. 

AZschylus.     The  Persians. 

Thy  rise  of  fortune  did  I  only  wed, 
From  its  decline  determin'd  to  recede  ? 
Did  I  but  purpose  to  embark  with  thee 
On  the  smooth  surface  of  a  summer's  sea, 
While  gentle  zephyrs  play  in  prosp'rous  gales, 
And  fortune's  favour  fills  the  swelling  sails ; 
But  would  forsake  the  ship,  and  make  the  shore, 
When  the  winds  whistle,  and  the  tempests  roar  ? 
No,  Henry,  no  :  one  sacred  oath  has  tied 
Our  loves ;  one  destiny  our  life  shall  guide, 
Nor  wild,  nor  deep,  our  common  way  divide !    .     Prior. 


Friendship  has  a  power 
To  soothe  affliction  in  her  darkest  hour. 


H.  K.  White. 


WALL  FLOWER. 

(Continued.) 


Adhering  in  the  adverse  hour, 

Like  fidelity's  own  flower, 

That  over  ruins  long  grown  grey, 

Throws  its  colours  bright  and  gay.   .     .     .     Mrs.  H.  S. 

In  adverse  hours  the  friendship  of  the  good 
Shines  most ;  each  prosperous  day  commands  its  friends. 

Euripides'1  Hecuba. 


WEEPING  WILLOW. 

Salix  babylonica. 


Forsaken.  Prevent  his  falsehood,  and  forsake  him  first.    .    Philips. 

Change  thou  the  first,  nor  wait  thy  lover's  flight.  Prior. 

Ah  !  little  marvel  in  such  clime  and  age, 
That  we  should  daily  hear  that  love  is  fled, 
And  hope  grown  pale,  and  lighted  feelings  dead. 

Pickersgill. 

For  love  is  oft  a  fatal  spell, 
That  sweetly  soothes  but  to  betray — 
Let  not  the  soft  enchantment  wile 

Your  heart  away. 
A  garland  of  the  cypress  tree, 
Or  weeping  willow- wreath,  may  well 

Its  emblem  be.    .     .          ,     .     .     .    J.  Malcolm. 


Some  day,  perhaps,  thou  'It  waken 
From  pleasure's  dream  to  know 
The  grief  of  hearts  forsaken  !     .     . 


Moore. 


WHEAT. 
Triticum. 


Prosperity. 


Prosperity  puts  out  unnumber'd  thoughts 

Of  import  high,  and  light  divine,  to  man.    .     .     Young. 

*         *         *         *         Who  feels  no  ills, 
Should,  therefore,  fear  them ;  and,  when  fortune  smiles, 
Be  doubly  cautious,  lest  destruction  come 
Remorseless  on  him,  and  he  fall  unpitied. 

Sophocles'1  Philoctetes. 

When  most  the  world  applauds  you,  most  beware  ; 

'Tis  often  less  a  blessing  than  a  snare. 

Distrust  mankind — with  your  own  heart  confer ; 


And  dread  even  there  to  find  a  flatterer.     .     , 

Beware  what  earth  calls  happiness ;  beware 
All  joys,  but  joys  that  never  can  expire  ; 
Who  builds  on  less  than  an  immortal  base, 
Fond  as  he  seems,  condemns  his  joy  to  death. 


Young. 


WOODBINE, 

The  variegated  leaf. 

Lonicera. 


Fraternal  hve.    Tneir  Iove  in  early  infancy  began, 

And  rose  as  childhood  ripen'd  into  man.     .     . 

Thanks  to  my  stars,  I  have  not  rang'd  about 
The  wilds  of  life,  ere  I  could  find  a  friend  : 


Dryden. 


WOODBINE. 

(Continued.) 


Nature  first  pointed  out  my  brother  to  me, 
And  early  taught  me,  by  her  sacred  force, 
To  love  thy  person,  ere  I  knew  thy  merit, 
Till  what  was  instinct  grew  up  into  friendship. 

Ours  has  severest  virtue  for  its  basis, 
And  such  a  friendship  ends  not  but  with  life.    Addison. 


YARROW. 

Achillca  millcfolium. 


1 0  cure.  Hear,  what  from  love  unpractis'd  hearts  endure, 

From  love, — the  sole  disease  thou  canst  not  cure. 

Pope. 

Ah,  luckless  day  !  when  first  with  fond  surprise 
On  Delia's  face  I  fix'd  my  eager  eyes ! 
Then  in  wild  tumults  all  my  soul  was  tost  : 
Then  reason,  liberty,  at  once  were  lost : 
And  every  wish,  and  thought,  and  care,  was  gone, 
But  what  my  heart  employ'd  on  her  alone.       Lyttelton. 


Ye,  that  witness  the  woes  I  endure, 
Let  reason  instruct  you  to  shun 
What  it  cannot  instruct  you  to  cure. 


.    Shenstone. 


And  soothe  the  pains  thou  know'st  not  how  to  cure. 

Lyttelton. 

If  there  is  on  earth  a  cure 
For  the  sunk  heart — 'tis  this — day  after  day 
To  be  the  blest  companion  of  thy  way ; 
To  hear  thy  angel  eloquence — to  see 
Those  virtuous  eyes  for  ever  turn'd  on  me ; 
And  in  their  light,  rechasteri'd  silently, 
Like  the  stain'd  web  that  whitens  in  the  sun, 
Grow  pure  by  being  purely  shone  upon.    .     .     .  Moore. 


ZINNIA. 

Zinnia  rnultiflora. 


Absence.  How  blessings  brighten  as  they  take  their  flight ! , 

Young. 
Now  I  know 

****** 

What  it  is  to  admire  and  to  love, 

And  to  leave  her  we  love  and  admire.     .    .    Shenstone, 

<    I  priz'd  ev'ry  hour  that  went  by, 

Beyond  all  that  had  pleas'd  me  before  ; 
But  now  they  are  past,  and  I  sigh ; 
And  I  grieve  that  I  priz'd  them  no  more.    .    .    same. 

All  flowers  will  droop  in  absence  of  the  sun 

That  wak'd  their  sweets Dryden. 

Love  reckons  hours  for  months,  and  days  for  years, 
And  every  little  absence  is  an  age •  same. 

L'absence  est  a  1'amour  ce  qui  est  au  feu  le  vent, 

II  e"teint  le  petit,  il  allume  le  grand.    .    .       Rousseau. 


•«&• 


WITNESS    THE    SPRIGHTLY  JOT,    WHEN  AUGHT  UNKNOWN 
STRIKES   THE   QUICK  SENSE,  AND   WAKES   EACH  ACTIVE  POWER 
TO   BRISKER  MEASURES. 


Jlkenside. 


AND   ALL   ABOUT   GREW  EVERT   SORT   OP    FLOWER 

TO    WHICH   SAD   LOVERS   WERE   TRANSFORMED    OF    YORE. 


Spencer, 


ACACIA. 
Robinia. 

Robinia,  commemorates  John  Robin,  botanist  to  Henry 
the  Fourth,  and  Louis  the  Thirteenth,  of  France.  He  was 
found  fault  with  for  his  selfish  love  of  flowers;  the  more 
curious  kinds  of  which,  he  would  rather  destroy,  than  share 
with  his  friends. 

His  son,  Vespasian  Robin,  and  De  Theis,  introduced 
into  the  French  gardens,  from  American  seeds,  that  species 
of  Robinia,  called  Pseudo  Jlcacia,  by  Tournefort;  who,  under 
that  name,  founds  the  present  genus. 

Jlcacia,  is  an  ancient  name,  (Gr.  «/.*/.ix)  derived  from 
the  Greek  XXi,  a  point,  or  «x*£s,  to  point  or  sharpen,  in  re- 
ference to  its  thorny  habit. 

The  Rose  Acacia,  R.  Hispida,  or  Hairy  Robinia,  is  a 
native  of  America,  particularly  of  the  mountains  of  Virginia 
and  Carolina.  It  is  a  very  ornamental  shrub,  with  copious, 
large,  pink-coloured  papilionaceous  blossoms,  enhanced,  like 
the  Moss  Rose,  by  the  bristly  covering  of  the  stalks  and 
calyx.  The  leaves  pinnate,  with  an  odd  leaflet,  like  the 
common  locust.  It  has  no  thorns.  There  is  a  taller,  and 
less  hisped  variety. 

The  Pseudo  Jlcacia,  or  common  locust,  is  also  a  na- 
tive of  North  America,  from  Canada  to  Carolina:  and,  in 
the  months  of  May  and  June,  it  is  laden  with  bunches  of 
white  sweet-scented  flowers,  resembling  those  of  the  labur- 
num in  size  and  position.  The  foliage  is  of  a  beautiful  light 
green,  consisting  of  many  elliptical,  opposite  or  alternate, 
stalked  leaflets.  It  is  a  large  and  handsome  tree,  of  quick 
growth;  beginning,  from  the  third  year,  to  convert  its  sap 
into  perfect  wood,  which  is  of  so  fine  a  grain,  and  so  hard, 
as  to  be  substituted  by  turners  for  the  box,  in  many  sorts  of 
light  work.  The  branches  are  liable  to  be  shivered  off  by 
autumnal  storms. 

There  is  a  very  thorny  species  of  Robinia,  with  yellow 
flowers,  a  native  of  Siberia,  as  also  of  Pekin,  in  China:  in 
the  latter  place,  it  is  frequently  fixed  with  clay  on  the  tops 
of  walls,  to  keep  off  intruders.  This  R.  Spinosa,  or  Thorny 
Robinia,  is  a  shrub,  much  branched,  and  with  long  thorns, 
formed  by  the  hardened  foot-stalks.  It  is  quite  hardy  in  our 


gardens,  and  would  be  excellent  for  hedges.    The  leaflets 
are  oblong,  wedge-shaped,  hardly  an  inch  in  length. 

The  Oriental  Jlcacia,  from  which  our  green-houses  are 
furnished,  is  of  a  different  class  and  order  from  the  Robinia, 
being  Polygamia  Monozcia;  or,  perhaps,  Polyandria  Mo- 
nogynia.  Natural  order,  Lomentacx,  Linn.  Leguminosx, 
Juss.  The  flowers  have  the  appearance  of  small  tufls; 
some  of  the  species  very  fragrant.  The  foliage  presents 
great  variety  in  the  form  of  the  leaf,  and  manner  of  its 
growth.  And  some  of  them  have  the  sensitive  properties  of 
the  Mimosa. 

The  Jlcacia  Vera,  or  JVRmosa  Wilotica,  a  tree  that 
grows  abundantly  on  the  sandy  soil  of  Egypt  and  Arabia, 
furnishes  the  Gum-arabic,  a  pure  concrete  mucilage,  which 
exudes,  spontaneously,  in  a  liquid  state,  from  the  trunk  and 
boughs,  and  hardens  by  contact  with  the  air,  and  heat  of  the 
sun :  incisions  are  sometimes  made  through  the  bark,  to  assist 
the  transudation  of  the  juice. 

The  Jlcacia  Jlrabica,  or  East-Indian  Gum-Arabic  tree, 
besides  yielding  this  wholesome  mucilage,  is  one  of  the  most 
useful  trees  in  India,  for  its  tough  and  hard  wood,  serving 
many  valuable  purposes  in  ship  building,  8cc.:  the  bark  is 
used  for  dying,  and  making  ink. 

Moore,  in  his  "  Light  of  the  Harem,"  has  noticed  the 
Oriental  Acacia,  in  these  beautiful  lines: 

"  Our  sands  are  bare,  but  smiling  there 

Th'  Jlcacia  waves  her  yellow  hair. 

Lonely  and  sweet,  nor  lov'd  the  less 

For  flowering  in  a  wilderness. 
#        *        *        *        # 

Then  come, — thy  Arab  maid  shall  be 
The  lov'd  and  lone  Jlcacia  tree." 

I  have  not  designated  any  particular  species  of  Yellow 
Jlcacia,  in  the  Dictionary,  from  my  wish  to  leave  the  selec- 
tion to  such  as  might  chance  to  be  most  cultivated,  or  most 
easily  commanded. 

FLOS  ADONIS. 

Jldonis. 

That  this  flower  owes  its  name  to  the  favourite  of  Venus, 
is  not  to  be  disputed;  but  whether  the  Goddess  of  Beauty 


•*" 


changed  her  lover  into  this  plant,  or  the  Anemone,  would 
be  difficult  to  decide,— since  the  Linnsean  system  of  dividing 
plants  into  families,  did  not  exist  when  the  Gods  and  God- 
desses made  love  upon  earth:  and  previous  to  the  time  of  the 
Swedish  botanist,  the  Jldonis  was  considered  to  be  one  of  the 
Mnemonics,  which  it  greatly  resembles,  and  is  of  the  same 
class  and  order. 

Flos  (L)  a  flower,  a  bloom,  a  blossom. 

Look,  in  the  garden,  blooms  the  Flos  Jldonis, 
And  memory  keeps  of  him  who  rashly  died, 
Thereafter  changed  by  Venus,  weeping,  to  this  flower. 
Anonymous.    Garland  of  Flora. 

Ovid  certainly  designates  the  Jlnemone,  as  being  the 
subject  of  this  metamorphosis: 

"  Then  on  the  blood,  sweet  nectar  she  bestows, 
The  scented  blood  in  little  bubbles  rose: 
Little  as  rainy  drops,  which  fluttering  fly, 
Borne  by  the  winds  along  a  low'ring  sky. 
Short  time  ensu'd,  till  where  the  blood  was  shed, 
A  flower  began  to  rear  its  purple  head: 
Such  as  on  punic  apples  is  reveal'd, 
Or  in  the  filmy  rind  but  half  conceal'd. 

Still  here  the  fate  of  lovely  forms  we  see, 
So  sudden  fades  the  sweet  Jlnemone. 
The  feeble  stems,  to  stormy  blasts  a  prey, 
Their  sickly  beauties  droop  and  pine  away. 
The  winds  forbid  the  flow'rs  to  flourish  long, 
Which  owe  to  winds  their  names  in  Grecian  song." 

Eusden's  Ovid. 

Great  quantities  of  the  Jldonis  Jlutumnalis  are  annu- 
ally carried  to  the  London  market,  and  sold  by  the  name 
of  Red  .Morocco  and  Pheasant's  Eye.  And,  in  the  time  of 
Gerard,  (a  surgeon,  and  famous  herbalist  in  the  reign  of 
Queen  Elizabeth,  chief  gardener  to  William  Cecil,  Lord 
Burleigh,  who  was  himself  a  great  lover  of  plants,  and  had 
the  best  collection  of  any  nobleman  in  the  kingdom,)  the 
country  people  called  it  "Red  Camomile" — the  London 
women,  "  Rosearubie.n  It  is  an  annual,  flowering  from  May 
to  October.  Its  characters  are,  that  the  calyx  is  a  five- 
leaved  peria.nt.hium,  and  the  leaflets  are  obtuse,  concave,  a 
little  coloured  and  deciduous;  the  corolla  has  from  five  to 
fifteen,  but  most  commonly  eight, — oblong,  obtuse,  shining, 
petals.  The  stamina  consist  of  very  short  filaments,  and  the 
anthersc  are  oblong  and  inflex:  the  pistulum  has  numerous 
germs  collected  in  a  head,  no  styles,  and  acute  reflex  stigmas: 
no  pericarpium;  an  oblong,  spiked  receptacle:  seeds  nume- 
rous, irregular,  angular. 

ALMOND. 

Jlmygdalus. 

Jlmygdalus,  in  gardening,  applies  to  the  Almond,  Peach, 
and  Nectarine  trees. 

Jlmygdala,  Latin  for  an  Almond  tree. 

Amygdaline,  English,  resembling  almonds. 

•Almond,    (English)    JUmendra,   (Spanish)    Jlmande, 


(French)  derived  by  Menage  from  amandala,  a  word  in  low 
Latin — see  Johnson. 

The  Almond  is  the  earliest  tree  that  puts  forth  its  blos- 
soms in  Syria,  and  is  hence  regarded  as  the  emblem  and  pro- 
mise of  a  fruitful  season :  its  snow-white  blossoms  appear  on 
the  bare  branches,  unaccompanied  by  leaves. 

"  Mark  well  the  flowering  almond  in  the  wood ; 
If  odorous  blooms  the  bearing  branches  load, 
The  glebe  will  answer  to  the  sylvan  reign, 
Great  heats  will  follow,  and  large  crops  of  grain. 
But,  if  a  wood  of  leaves  o'ershade  the  tree, 
Such,  and  so  barren  will  the  harvest  be; 
In  vain  the  hind  shall  vex  the  threshing  floor, 
For  empty  straw  and  chaff  will  be  thy  store." 

Dryden's  Virgil. 

It  is  the  emblem  of  Hope : 

"The  Hope,  in  dreams  of  a  happier  hour 

That  alights  on  misery's  brow, 
Springs  out  of  the  silvery  almond  Jlower, 


That  blooms  on  a  leafless  bough." 


Moore. 


We  presume  that  Aaron's  rod  was  taken  from  the  Al- 
mond tree: 

"  And  behold,  the  rod  of  Aaron,  for  the  house  of  Levi, 
was  budded,  and  brought  forth  buds,  and  bloomed  blossoms, 
and  yielded  almonds."  (Numbers  xvii.  8.) 

The  common  almond,  Jl.  Communis,  has  leaves  re- 
sembling those  of  the  peach,  but  the  lower  serratures  are 
glandular;  they  proceed  from  buds  both  above  and  below 
the  flowers,  and  not,  as  in  the  peach,  from  the  ends  of  the 
shoots  above,  and  not  below  the  flowers.  The  form  of  the 
flowers  is  not  very  different,  but  they  usually  come  out  in 
pairs,  and  vary  more  in  their  colour,  from  the  fine  blush  of 
the  apple -blossom,  to  a  snowy  whiteness.  The  chief  obvious 
distinction  is  in  the  fruit,  which  is  flatter,  with  a  coriaceous, 
or  leather-like  covering,  instead  of  the  rich  pulp  of  the 
peach  and  nectarine,  opening  spontaneously  when  the  kernel 
is  ripe. 

It  is  a  native  of  Barbary — much  cultivated  in  Italy  and 
the  south  of  France.  It  is  common  in  China,  and  most  of  the 
eastern  countries.  According  to  Miller,  the  Jl.  Communis 
is  cultivated  more  for  the  beauty  of  its  flowers  than  for  its 
fruit;  of  which  there  are  two  varieties,  the  sweet  and  the  bit- 
ter; which  often  arise  from  the  fruit  of  the  same  tree:  the 
fruit  is  good  while  fresh,  but  will  not  keep  long. 

It  is  the  fruit  of  the  A.  Dulcis,  or  Jordan  A.,  which  is 
preferred  in  commerce.  This  has  a  tender  shell,  and  a  large 
sweet  kernel.  The  leaves  are  broader,  shorter,  and  grow 
much  closer  than  those  of  the  common  sort,  and  their  edges 
are  crenate.  The  Jlowers  are  very  small,  and  of  a  pale  co- 
lour, inclining  to  white.  The  trees  have  been  often  raised 
from  the  nut,  which  is  imported. 

The  Jl.  Pumila,  double-flowering  dwarf-almond,  is  a 
shrub  of  two  or  three  feet  high,  smooth  branches,  and  dark 
purple.  Leaves  veined-wrinkled,  or  lanceolated,  and  dou- 
ble serrated.  Flowers,  generally  two  in  a  bud  and  sessile. 
Calyx  reddish;  petals  emarginate,  red,  longer  than  the 


tube  of  the  calyx:  filaments  paler;  germ  and  style  pubes- 
cent at  bottom;  stipules  linear  and  very  deeply  serrate. 
Its  native  country  Africa. 

ALTHJEA. 

Hibiscus  Syriacus. 

Hibiscus,  a  name  given  by  Linnaeus  to  designate  a 
genus  of  the  Mallow  tribe,  which  had  hitherto  received 
only  barbarous,  or  ill-constructed  appellations. 

The  Greek  word  iSio-xo?,  from  which  it  is  derived,  is 
translated  "  a  species  of  wild  or  woodland  Mallow — Al- 
thaea." 

Althsea — Greek  «x*»<«,  from  the  Gr.  «x%,,  or  axd*.™, 
to  heal,  a  remedy,  from  its  many  excellent  qualities.  The 
A.  Officinalis,  common  Marsh  Mallow,  a  perennial  plant  of 
about  three  feet  high;  the  whole  herb  clothed  with  a  very 
soft  wool  or  velvet;  purple  Jlowers;  leaves  simple,  undivi- 
ded, angular,  and  cottony,  alternate,  serrated:  is  a  native  of 
temperate  climes,  and  has  been  used  medicinally  in  all  coun- 
tries. 

The  Hibiscus  Syriacus,  popularly  called  Althsea  fru- 
tex,  is  a  native  of  Syria  and  Carniola;  a  hardy  shrub  in 
our  gardens,  growing  to  the  height  of  a  small  tree;  leaves 
ovate,  somewhat  wedge-shaped,  three-lobbed,  cut,  smooth; 
calyx  double,  the  outer  permanent,  consisting  of  about 
eight  leaves,  as  long  as  the  inner;  the  blossoms  are  hand- 
some, rose  coloured,  with  a  crimson  eye:  liable  to  variations 
in  colour,  and  sometimes  double;  scentless.  It  is,  perhaps, 
the  last  shrub  that  comes  into  leaf  with  us,  and  one  of  the 
latest  flowering. 

The  fable  of  Althxa  and  her  unfortunate  son,  being 
read  in  my  hearing,  at  the  time  that  the  shrub  Althaea  was 
in  bloom,  and  finding  that  it  had  been  overlooked  in  the  as- 
semblage of  speaking  flowers,  I  determined  to  introduce  it, 
if  possible,  and  the  fate  of  the  poor  youth  who  had  lost  his 
life,  in  consequence  of  his  love  for  the  beautiful  nymph 
Atalanta — his  consuming1  away,  as  the  fatal  brand  was 
burned — by  the  power  of  association,  suggested  the  em- 
blem of  "  Consumed  by  Love." 

ALOE. 

Jlloe  L,,  Greek  axo*. 

All  Aloes  are  natives  of  hot  climates;  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  8>tc.  Some  of  the  species  furnish  the  stimulat- 
ing bitter  medicine  of  our  shops,  which  is  made  by  boiling 
the  leaves  to  a  suitable  consistency,  and  exposing  the  de- 
coction to  such  heat  as  will  evaporate  its  fluid  parts.  The 
Africans  make  ropes  of  the  leaves,  which  are  not  apt  to  rot 
in  the  water;  fishing  lines,  bow  strings,  &tc.,  and  manufac- 
ture it  into  stockings,  hammocks,  &.C. 

The  tree  Aloe,  Jlloe  Dichotoma,  growing  on  the  moun- 
tains of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  with  an  erect  stem,  two 
fathoms  high,  and  as  thick  as  a  man's  leg,  is  hollowed  out 
by  the  natives  to  make  quivers  for  their  bows.  Several  of 
the  species  are  used  for  hedges.  The  A.  D.  has  leaves 
sword-shaped,  and  serrate;  flowers  paniculate;  corolla  mo- 
nopetalous. 

Our  green-houses  abound  with  the  Aloes  of  diminutive 
growth.  The  flower  of  the  Aloe  has  no  calyx:  corolla  one- 


pe tailed,  erect;  border  spreading  and  small;  nectarious  at 
the  bottom;  seeds  angular;  leaves  fleshy. 

Among  the  Mahometans,  and  particularly  in  Egypt, 
the  Aloe  is  a  kind  of  symbolic  plant,  and  dedicated  to  the 
offices  of  religion.  Pilgrims,  on  their  return  from  Mecca, 
suspend  it  over  their  doors,  as  an  evidence  of  their  having 
performed  that  holy  journey.  The  superstitious  imagine 
that  it  has  the  virtue  of  keeping  off  evil  spirits  from  theit 
houses.  Even  the  Christians  and  Jews  of  Cairo,  hang  it 
over  their  doors  for  this  purpose. 

The  Aloe  was  used  by  the  ancients  in  embalming  bo- 
dies. Of  this  Aloes,  interpreters  understand  that  to  have 
been  which  Nicodemus  brought  to  embalm  the  body  of  our 
Saviour .  John  six.  39. 

AMARANTH. 

Amaranthus. 

Amaranthus,  L. — Greek  «/.*f*i-To;,  formed  from  «, 
(not,)  .uxfxna,,  (to  fade,)  and  avd-o;,  (a  flower,)  or  from  *, 
not,  and  ftXf*iv<a,  to  fade — unfading,  ever  fair,  ever  young. 

Milton  mentions  this  flower  as  forming  the  diadem  of 
the  angels: 

"  With  solemn  adoration  down  they  cast 

Their  crowns  inwove  with  Amaranth  and  gold; 

Immortal  Amaranth,  a  flower  which  once 

In  Paradise,  fast  by  the  tree  of  life, 

Began  to  bloom;  but  soon,  for  man's  offence, 

To  Heaven  remov'd,  where  first  it  grew,  there  grows 

And  flowers  aloft,  shading  the  fount  of  life; 

And  where  the  river  of  bliss,  through  midst  Heaven 

Rolls  o'er  Elysian  flowers  her  amber  stream; 

With  these,  that  never  fade,  the  spirits  elect 

Bind  their  resplendent  locks,  inwreath'd  with  beams." 

The  Amaranth  has  been  placed  among  the  funereal 
flowers.  Homer  has  described  the  Thessalians  as  wearing 
crowns  of  Amaranth  at  the  funeral  of  Achilles.  Milton, 
also,  in  his  Lycidas,  classes  it  among  the  flowers  "  that  sad 
embroidery  wear:" 

"  Bid  Amaranthus  all  his  beauty  shed, 

And  daffodillies  fill  their  cups  with  tears, 

To  strew  the  laureate  hearse  where  Lycid  lies." 

The  unfading  nature  of  the  flower,  we  may  suppose, 
the  emblem  of  lasting  grief,  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  &c. 

The  Amaranth  has  no  corolla:  the  calyx  is  coloured, 
five  or  three-leaved,  permanent;  the  leaflets  lanceolate  and 
acute:  native  of  Asia,  Africa,  and  America. 

The  A.  Tricolor,  native  of  the  East  Indies,  is  admir- 
ed on  account  of  the  variegated  colours  of  its  leaves,  re- 
sembling, as  Gerard  tells  us,  the  splendid  and  beautiful 
feathers  of  a  parrot,  with  its  stripes  of  red,  yellow,  white, 
green,  &c. 

There  are  several  American  species.  The  Prince's 
Feather,  A.  Hypochondriacus,  is  a  native  of  Virginia,  as 
are  several  others.  The  leaves  of  most  of  the  species  of 


Amaranth  are  used  in  hot  countries  as  culinary  plants,  but 
are  not  equal  to  the  spinach,  which  they  somewhat  resemble. 
The  greater  number  of  species  are  annuals. 

GLOBE  AMARANTH. 
Gomphrena. 

Gomphrena,  a  name  adopted  by  Linnaeus,  from  Dale- 
champ,  and  which  is  perverted  from  the  Gomphrena  of 
Pliny.  Linnaeus  made  it  classical,  by  an  allusion  to  Gom- 
phos,  a  nail,  wedge,  or  club — applied  to  the  round  head  of 
flowers. 

The  Gomphrena  of  the  ancients,  is  supposed  to  be  the 
Amaranthus  tricolor,  from  the  description  given  of  it  by 
Pliny.  By  the  transposition  of  a  letter,  this  name  became 
Gomphrena,  in  some  old  writers,  in  which  form  it  was 
adopted  by  Linnaeus. 

Gomphrena  comes  under  the  denomination  of  Ever- 
lasting, or  Amaranthus,  on  account  of  the  permanent  na- 
ture of  their  calyx  when  dried,  which  retains  its  original 
colour  and  splendour. 

The  G.  Globosa  is  a  native  of  India — an  annual.  Ca- 
lyx coloured;  the  outer,  of  three  unequal  leaves;  inner,  in 
five  deep  segments.  Corolla  cylindrical,  of  one  petal,  the 
length  of  the  inner  calyx;  its  margin  equally  five-cleft, 
spreading,  bearing  the  stamens  at  its  orifice.  Filaments 
five,  short,  inserted  into  the  orifice  of  the  corolla,  betwixt 
its  segments;  anthers  erect,  roundish,  closing  the  mouth  of 
the  corolla.  Pist.  German  ovate,  pointed,  superior;  styles 
short,  cohering  at  their  base;  stigmas  simple,  obtuse,  scarce- 
ly reaching  to  the  stamens.  Seed  large,  roundish,  with  an 
oblique  point. 

The  Globe  Amaranth  offers  several  varieties — white, 
purple,  speckled  with  gold,  and  variegated.  They  resemble 
heads  of  clover,  in  the  form  of  their  flowers. 

The  late  flowering  variegated  G.  «/2.  are  called  Bache- 
lors' Buttons,  in  America,  according  to  the  Encyclopedia. 

AMARYLLIS. 

•Amaryllis,  derived  either  from  the  name  of  a  shepherd- 
ess, mentioned  by  Theocritus  and  Virgil,  or  from  the  Greek 
xnxfvy  ,ux,  or  *,uxfuyn,  splendour— from  xftx(\i<r<ru>,  to  shine, 
glitter,  sparkle,  flash — the  Lilio-Narcissus  of  Tourne- 
fort. 

"Amaryllis  Formosissima,  most  beautiful  Amaryllis, 
hangs  its  nodding  bell  obliquely  towards  the  horizon,  and 
as  its  stem  is  slender,  turns,  like  a  weathercock,  from  the 
wind;  and  thus,  very  effectually,  preserves  its  inclosed  sta- 
mens and  anthers  from  the  rain  and  cold — affording  an 
agreeable  example  of  art  in  the  vegetable  economy." 

See  Darwin. 

"  When  Heaven's  high  vault  condensing  clouds  deform, 
Fair  Amaryllis  flies  the  incumbent  storm; 
Seeks,  with  unsteady  step,  the  shelter'd  vale, 
And  turns  her  blushing  beauties  from  the  gale." 

Darwin. 

It  received  the  name  of  Jacobea  Lily,  because  some 
imagined  that  they  discovered  in  it,  a  likeness  to  the  badge 


of  the  order  of  the  knights  of  the  order  of  St.  James,  in 
Spain.  R.  Encyclopedia. 

It  is  a  native  of  South  America.  The  flowers  are  pro- 
duced from  the  sides  of  the  bulbs,  are  large,  and  of  a  deep 
red. 

The  calyx  is  a  spathe,  undivided ;  corolla  two  lipped, 
nodding,  deeply  six-parted,  stamens  and  pistils  bent  down. 

There  are  many  species  of  the  Amaryllis,  with  various 
coloured  flowers,  purple,  yellow,  &tc.  The  yellow,  Ji.  Lu- 
tea,  a  smaller  variety,  seldom  rising  more  than  three  or  four 
inches  high,  is  a  native  of  France,  kc.,  very  hardy,  flowering 
late,  generally  in  September. 

Ji.  Sarniensis,  Guernsey  Lily,  is  a  splendid  species. 
The  number  of  flowers  is  commonly  from  eight  to  twelve, 
and  the  circumference  of  each  about  seven  inches;  the  co- 
rolla, in  its  prime,  has  the  colour  of  a  fine  gold  tissue, 
wrought  on  a  rose-coloured  ground,  and  when  it  begins  to 
fade,  it  is  pink:  in  full  sunshine,  it  seems  to  be  studded 
with  diamonds;  but  by  candle-light,  the  specks  or  spangles 
appear  more  like  fine  gold-dust:  when  the  petals  are  some- 
what withered,  they  assume  a  deep  crimson  colour.  This 
beautiful  plant  is  a  native  of  Japan,  and  has  long  been  na- 
turalized in  Guernsey,  whence  the  roots  are  sent  to  most 
parts  of  Europe. 

AMBROSIA. 

Ambrosia,  formed  of  the  two  Greek  words,  •  (not)  and 
/Sfsrs,-  (human)  signifying  divine,  immortal;  because  it  ren- 
dered those  who  fed  on  it,  immortal;  or,  because  it  was  the 
food  of  the  immortals. 

"  The  imaginary  food  of  the  gods,  from  which  every 
thing  eminently  pleasing  to  the  smell  and  taste,  is  called 
Ambrosia."  Johnson. 

Thus,  while  God  spake,  ambrosial  fragrance  fill'd 

All  Heaven,  and  the  blessed  spirits  elect 

Sense  of  new  joy  ineffable  diffused.  Milton. 

To  farthest  shores  th'  ambrosial  spirit  flies, 

Sweet  to  the  world,  and  grateful  to  the  skies.         Pope. 

Ambrosia  for  to  feast  the  appetite, 

Or  flowery  odour  mix'd  with  spicery.  G.  Fletcher. 


Here  is  beauty  for  the  eye; 
For  the  ear  sweet  melody; 
Ambrosiack  odours  for  the  smell. 


B.  Johnson. 


The  general  character  of  Ambrosia,  is  a  common  one- 
leafed  calyx,  corolla  of  the  male  compound,  uniform,  and 
hemispherical;  (no  corolla  to  the  female)  the  proper,  one- 
petalled,  funnel-shaped;  the  stamina  have  very  small  fila- 
ments, anthers  erect,  parallel,  and  acuminate;  pistillum  of 
the  length  of  the  stamens,  stigma  membranous;  a  common 
receptacle,  scarcely  any,  naked.  Female  flowers,  below  the 
males,  doubled;  one-leafed  calyx;  the  pistillum  a  germ 
ovate,  in  the  bottom  of  the  calyx;  style  filiform,  of  the  same 
length  with  the  calyx,  two  stigmas;  seed  single  and  roundish. 


-4- 


•*•• 


There  are  five  species  enumerated:  one,  a  common  an- 
nual weed  of  North  America,  A.  Gigantea  inodora,  grow- 
ing often  eight  or  ten  feet  high,  spreading  out  into  many 
branches;  the  flowers  are  not  more  conspicuous  than  those 
of  hemp.  The  sort  common  in  gardens  has  three  lobed 
leaves. 

The  JL.  Maratima,  rises  about  two  feet,  with  multifid 
leaves}  which,  when  handled,  emit  a  strong  odour:  spikes 
solitary,  hairy  and  subsessile;  native  of  Cappadocia,  Tuscany, 
and  the  country  of  Nice,  on  sandy  shores. 

AMERICAN  STARWORT 

Aster  Tradescanti. 

Aster,  L.  from  the  Greek  «;T>,S,  a  star,  the  flower  being 
radiated. 

Botanists  have  named  this  species  of  Aster  in  compli- 
ment to  the  memory  of  John  Tradescant,  one  of  the  fathers 
of  Natural  History  in  England;  as  well  as  one  of  the  ear- 
liest cultivators  of  exotic  plants  in  that  country.  He  was 
appointed  chief  gardener  to  king  Charles  the  First.  His 
son,  of  the  same  name,  visited  Virginia,  in  1633,  and  car- 
rie'd  back  with  him  several  new  plants,  of  which  this  was 
one. 

It  obtained  the  more  familiar  name  of  JWichaelmass* 
Daisy,  from  its  flowering  about  that  season  of  the  year,  and 
the  corollas  being  radiated,  and  nearly  of  the  size  of  the  com- 
mon Daisy. 

There  are  two  varieties,  viz:  the  dwarf  and  tall  starwort. 
The  common  Jllichaelmass  Daisy  grows  from  three  to  five 
feet  high.  The  leaves  of  both  are  radical,  about  four  inches 
long,  like  those  of  willow;  ray  varies  from  white  to  purple, 
consisting  of  many  florets.  The  dwarf  variety  produces  smaller 
flowers,  of  a  dark  purple. 

North  America  abounds  in  Asters  of  every  variety  of 
hue. 

ANEMONE. 
(See  Note  on  Adonis.) 

•Anemone,  Greek  »ti/tavs,  from  MI/S^?,  the  wind,  be- 
cause the  flower  is  supposed  not  to  open  except  the  wind 
blows  on  it;  or,  because  it  grows  in  situations  much  exposed 
to  the  wind. 

And  coy  Anemone  that  ne'er  uncloses 

Her  lips  until  they're  blown  on  by  the  wind. 

Hor.  Smith. 

Heathen  mythology  informs  us  that  Adonis  was  killed 
by  a  wild  boar,  while  engaged  in  the  chase  of  that  furious 
animal ;  and  that  his  blood,  which  was  shed  upon  the  ground, 
was,  by  Venus,  changed  into  the  flower  Anemone,  which  has 
ever  since  retained  the  colour  of  blood. 

By  this  the  boy  that  by  her  side  lay  killed, 
Was  melted  like  a  vapour  from  her  sight; 
And  in  his  blood,  that  on  the  ground  lay  spilled, 
A  purple  flower  sprung  up  chequered  with  white. 

Shaks. 

*  Michaelmass,  Michael  and  Mass.  The  feast  of  the  archangel  Mi- 
chael, celebrated  on  the  29th  September. 


The  Anemone  Vernalis  is  a  native  of  the  mountains, 
and  barren  sands  in  Sweden,  Germany,  and  Switzerland. 
Leaves  pinnate;  powers  red  without,  and  white  within. 

It  has  been  made  the  emblem  of  anxious  expectation: 

u  All  wan  and  shivering  in  the  leafless  glade, 
The  sad  Anemone  reclin'd  her  head; 
Grief  on  her  cheeks  had  paled  the  roseate  hue, 
And  her  sweet  eye-lids  dropp'd  with  pearly  dew. 

Breathe  gentle  air!  from  cherub  lips  impart 

Thy  balmy  influence  to  my  anguish'd  heart; 

Thou  whose  soft  voice  calls  forth  the  tender  blooms, 

Whose  pencil  paints  them,  and  whose  breath  perfumes. 

*  *  *  * 

And  give  my  ivory  petals  to  expand. 

#  *  *  * 

To  her  fond  prayer  propitious  zephyr  yields, 

Sweeps  on  his  sliding  shell  through  azure  fields, 

O'er  her  fair  mansion  waves  his  whispering  wand, 

And  gives  her  ivory  petals  to  expand."  Daneiit. 

The  Anemone  has,  properly,  no  calyx;  but  two  or  three 
sets  of  petals,  three  in  a  set,  somewhat  oblong,  which  are 
folded  over  the  stamens  and  pistils  in  a  singular  and  beau- 
tiful manner.  It  differs  from  the  Ranunculus,  in  not  having 
a  melliferous  pore  on  the  claw  of  each  petal.  The  stamina 
have  numerous  filaments,  half  the  length  of  the  corolla;  an- 
thers twin  and  erect;  the  pistillum  has  numerous  germs  in 
ahead;  styles  acuminate,  and  stigmas  obtuse;  no  pericar- 
piutn;  receptacle  globular  or  oblong,  hollowed  and  dotted; 
numerous  seeds,  acuminate,  retaining  the  style.  It  is  said  to 
expand  its  flower  only  in  fine  weather,  and  to  close  them  on 
the  approach  of  rain. 


"  Anemone,  that  shuns  the  impending  shower." 


Evans. 

And  hails  with  kindling  smiles  the  genial  skies. 

Darwin. 

The  flowers  of  the  Anemone  are  of  various  colours — 
white,  blue,  purple,  yellow,  crimson,  scarlet,  peach-blos- 
som, 8tc. 

Anemone  now  robed  in  virgin  white, 

Now  blushing  with  faint  crimson.  Gisborne. 

u  See  yon  Anemonies  their  leaves  unfold, 
With  rubies  flaming,  and  with  living  gold." 


The  lily,  or  purple  bell 
Of  Persian  wind-flower. 


Maturin. 


The  American  Wild  Anemone  is  very  delicate  and  fra- 
gile, and  soon  withers  after  being  cropped. 


"  Youth,  like  a  thin  Anemone,  displays 
His  silken  leaf,  and  in  a  morn  decays." 


Sir  Wm.  Jones. 


ARBOR  VITJE. 

Thuja. 

Thuja,  L.  Greek  5U101-,  su,«,  or  s««;  which  is  de- 
rived from  SUM,  to  perfume. 

Arbor  Vitx,  L.  from  .Arbor,  a  tree,  and  Fttee,  of  life. 
The  tree  of  life. 

Thuja,  the  name  of  a  tree,  whose  very  durable  wood 
served,  according  to  Theophrastus,  to  make  images.  Its  roots, 
in  particular,  being  curiously  twisted  or  veined,  were  used  for 
the  most  valuable  ornamental  works.  This  plant  was  pro- 
bably the  Juniperus  Oxycedrus,  very  common  throughout 
Greece  and  the  Archipelago,  of  which  Mr.  Hawkins  is  of 
opinion  that  the  most  ancient  statues  were  made.  Our  pre- 
sent genus  of  Thuja  has  nothing  in  common  with  this  classi- 
cal plant,  except  being  an  aromatic  evergreen  tree  of  the 
same  natural  order,  with  very  durable  wood;  but  it  is  not  a 
native  of  Greece  or  the  Levant.  Rees'  Encyclopedia. 

The  species  cultivated  are,  the  American  Arbor  Vitse, 
Thuja  Occidentalis,  called  White  Cedar;  and  the  Chinese 
Arbor  Vitae,  Thuja  Orientalis.  In  the  first  of  these  species, 
there  are  great  varieties;  as  the  American  sweet-scented,  and 
the  variegated-leaved — native  of  North  America,  from  Cana- 
da to  the  mountains  of  Virginia  and  North  Carolina.  It  is 
rather  scarce  in  the  Southern  States,  and  only  found  on  the 
steep  banks  of  mountain  torrents. 

The  Thuja  Occidentalis  is  an  evergreen  tree  of  humble 
growth,  much  branched,  very  different  from  most  others  in  the 
compressed  vertical  aspect  of  its  younger  shoots,  and  their 
closely  imbricated  leaves,  which  are  small,  obtuse  with  a 
point,  smooth;  those  of  two  opposite  rows  compressed  and 
keeled;  the  intermediate  ones  flat,  with  a  glandular  point  or 
cell  of  resin,  at  the  back.  The  flowers  appear  in  May,  and 
are  small,  solitary,  terminal;  the  males  yellowish,  and  most 
abundant.  Cones  ripened  the  following  year,  drooping,  about 
the  size  of  a  filbert  kernel,  consisting  of  about  half  a  dozen 
lax,  smooth,  coriaceous  scales.  The  odour  of  the  bruised 
plant  is  aromatic,  but  not  agreeable.  The  wood  is  not  hard, 
but  tough,  and  extremely  durable. 

Thuja  Orientalis,  is  a  native  of  rocky  and  mountainous 
situations  in  China  and  Japan.  It  is  a  hardy  evergreen  in 
our  gardens,  flowering  at  the  same  time  with  the  former. 
The  very  copious  and  crowded  young  branches  are  more  erect, 
more  slender,  and  rather  less  compressed  than  those  of  the 
former,  and  the  leaves  are  furrowed,  without  any  resinous  dot. 
The  young  branches  two  edged;  leaves  imbricated  in  four 
furrows,  compressed,  ovate,  somewhat  rhomboid,  with  a  cen- 
tral furrow.  Inner  scales  of  the  cone  obtuse,  and  remarkably 
hooked,  with  a  recurved  dorsal  point. 

AURICULA. 

Primula  Auricula. 

Primula,  a  name  given  to  the  Primrose,  as  the  first  of- 
fering of  Spring,  (from  Primus,)  and  retained  by  Linnxus 
for  the  genus  to  which  that  favourite  flower  belongs;  though, 
as  he  remarks  in  some  parts  of  his  writings,  there  are  plants, 
in  various  countries,  more  strictly  entitled  to  such  an  ap- 
pellation. 

Auricula,!*,  the  outside,  the  flap  of  the  ear;  from  auris, 


L.  the  ear.  That  species  of  Primrose,  called  from  the  shape  of 
its  leaves,  Bear's  ear. 

The  Auricula  is  considered  in  the  Linnaean  system  as  a 
species  of  Primula.  The  varieties  of  the  Auricula  are  ex- 
tremely numerous,  as  every  year  produces  a  great  number  of 
flowers,  different  in  shape,  size,  and  colour;  in  the  leaves, 
also,  there  is  great  variety,  so  that  the  experienced  florist  can 
distinguish  the  particular  sorts  by  that  means. 

The  Flora  Historica  tells  us,  that  it  is  a  native  of  the  icy 
summits  of  the  Alps:  that  it  is  a  plant  on  which  Nature  plays 
her  frolics,  and  loves  to  paint  in  all  the  varieties  of  whimsi- 
cality and  diversity  of  rich  hues.  Nature  has  guarded  these 
delicate  flowers  from  the  scorching  heat  of  the  sun's  rays,  by 
sprinkling  them  with  a  fine  powder,  and  the  leaves  of  most 
of  the  kinds  of  Auricula  are  kept  cool  by  the  same  wise 
precaution. 


Auriculas  enrich'd 
With  shining  meal  o'er  all  their  velvet  leaves. 


Thomson. 


See 


Where  rayed  in  sparkling  dust,  and  velvet  pride, 

Like  brilliant  stars  arranged  in  splendid  row, 

The  proud  Auriculas  their  lustre  show.  Kleist. 

The  acme  of  the  florist's  ambition  is  to  procure  the  Au- 
ricula of  a  glowing  scarlet,  or  deep  crimson,  edged  with 
green. 

The  Primula  Auricula,  garden  Auricula,  or  Bear's  ear, 
is  the  origin  of  all  the  fine  powdered  garden  Auriculas;  it  has, 
in  a  wild  state,  much  less  powdery  leaves,  whose  edges  are 
partially,  but  often  coarsely,  serrated;  their  form  broadly  and 
obtusely  obovate.  Stalk  many-flowered,  about  the  length  of 
the  foliage.  The  flowers  are  small,  yellow,  occasionally 
purple,  or  red,  as  usually  seen  in  gardens.  Their  scent  is 
grateful  and  peculiar. 

BACHELOR'S  BUTTON. 
Lychnis  Dioica. 

(See  note  on  Scarlet  Lychnis.) 

Dioica  Wares,  or  Dioecious  flowers,  have  stamens  in  one 
individual,  and  pistils  in  another,  on  separate  plants  of  the 
same  species. 

Bachelor's  Button — Bachelor,  a  word  of  very  uncer- 
tain etymology.  Junius  derives  it  from  the  Gr.  /Sxxixcj, 
foolish.  Menage,  from  bos  chevalier,  a  knight  of  the  lowest 
rank. — The  most  probable  derivation  seems  to  be  from  bac.ca 
laurus,  (L)  the  berry  of  a  Laurel  or  Bay;  Bachelors  being 
young,  are  of  good  hopes,  like  laurels  in  the  berry. 

Johnson. 

Lychnis  Dioica — red  or  white  field  campion,  flowers 
dioecious;  fruit  of  one  cell;  crown  of  each  petal  four-cleft. 
There  is  a  blush-coloured  variety,  otherwise  most  like  the 
white;  but  more  evanescent. 

The  red  flowering  kind,  L.  Diurna,  is  a  very  common 
plant  throughout  Europe,  in  hedges  and  shady  bushy  places, 
in  the  spring.  The  white,  L.  Vespertina,  so  called  from  its 
evening  fragrance,  is  a  stronger  plant,  usually  found  in 


fields  or  open  situations,  in  summer.  The  roots  perennial; 
plant  hairy,  and  somewhat  viscid,  two  or  three  feet  high; 
leaves  ovate  or  lanceolate,  hairy;  limb  of  each  petal  cloven 
half  way  down,  generally  with  two  small  acute  lobes;  its 
crown  consisting  of  two  obtuse  central  teeth,  and  two  acute 
lateral  ones. 

BALM. 

Melissa. 

Melissa,  from  Melissa,  the  Greek  name  of  a  Bee;  or, 
rather,  as  that  name  itself,  like  the  ancient  proper  names 
•Melissa  and  Melissus,  also  originated  from  Meli,  the 
Greek  for  honey,  because  of  the  abundant  and  excellent 
honey  of  the  flowers  of  this  herb,  for  which  bees  are  said 
greatly  to  frequent  them.  Rees'  Encyclopedia. 

Balm,  E. — French  Baume,  a  contraction  of  balsam, 
which  is  an  aromatic  substance,  flowing  from  certain  plants. 

The  Melissa  Qfficinalis,  Common  Balm,  has  a  plea- 
sant scent,  somewhat  like  the  lemon,  and  has  been  denomi- 
nated "  Melissa  odore  citri,"  for  this  reason.  It  was  for- 
merly esteemed  of  great  use  in  all  complaints  proceeding 
from  a  disordered  state  of  the  nervous  system.  As  a  tea, 
it  is  well  known  to  be  a  grateful  diluent  drink  in  fevers, 
either  by  itself,  or  acidulated  with  lemon. 

Balm  is  too  generally  known  to  require  a  botanical  de- 
scription. 

BALSAM. 
Impatiens. 

Impatiens,  so  called  from  the  great  elasticity  of  the 
sutures  of  its  seed  vessel,  which  is  completely  impatient  of 
the  touch;  curling  up  with  great  velocity,  and  scattering 
round  the  seeds.  From  this  remarkable  circumstance,  it 
has  obtained  the  English  appellation  of  "  Touch-me-not." 

It  is  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  China,  and  Japan.  It 
has  the  advantage  of  retaining  all  its  splendour  and  fresh- 
ness during  the  drought  of  the  hottest  months.  Contrary 
to  the  nature  of  plants,  in  general,  it  droops  in  the  cool  of 
the  night,  whilst  it  erects  itself  in  the  heat  of  day,  which 
causes  most  other  plants  to  fade.  In  watering  these  plants, 
care  should  be  taken  not  to  sprinkle  or  wet  the  foliage ;  and 
it  is  recommended  to  save  the  seeds  from,  the  principal  stem 
only,  and  not  from  the  collateral  branches. 

General  character  of  Impatiens:  Perianth  very  small, 
of  two  roundish,  pointed,  equal  leaves,  coloured,  deciduous. 
Corolla  five-petalled,  irregular;  the  upper  petal  roundish, 
flat,  slightly  trifid,  making  a  sort  of  upper  lip;  lower  pair 
very  large,  obtuse;  intermediate  pair  opposite,  rising  from 
the  base  of  the  upper  petal;  nectary  receiving,  like  a  hood, 
the  base  of  the  flower. 

The  generic  name  of  Impatiens,  has  suggested  the  em- 
blem of  Impatience;  but  the  Turks  represent  ardent  love 
by  this  flower. 

SWEET  BASIL. 
Ocimum  BasUicum. 

Ocimum  L.  the  «,x.,uo»  of  the  Greeks.  Etymology  un- 
certain. Some  derive  the  word  from  the  Gr.  wxiws,  quickly, 
swiftly — or  from  coxi/iow  or  wxuj,  swift,  quick,  rapid,  &.c. 


The  Ocimum  BasUicum,  or  Common  Sweet  Basil,  is  a 
native  of  India  and  Persia;  and  may  be  placed  among  the 
hardy  annuals.  The  leaves  ovate,  peculiarly  smooth  and  cool 
to  the  touch,  and  if  not  too  much  bruised,  exhale  a  delightful 
fragrance.  The  calyx  is  remarkably  hairy ;  the  flowers  violet- 
coloured,  varying  in  colour,  sometimes  only  spotted  with  pur- 
ple. 

Basil,  E. — French  basilic — Latin  basilica — Greek 
j6«<riA.ixoi/,  signifying  kingly,  royal,  courtly. 

Several  of  the  species  of  the  Ocimum  are  held  in  super- 
stitious veneration  by  the  Hindoos,  and  are  used  in  their  reli- 
gious ceremonies.  The  species  most  in  estimation  at  Cal- 
cutta, is  known  by  the  general  name  of  Toolsey.  The  whole 
genus  is  valued  for  their  fragrant,  aromatic,  and  sweet  scent; 
which,  in  some  instances,  resembles  the  nutmeg,  clove,  cit- 
ron, and  fennel. 

That  which  is  used  in  French  cookery,  rises  about  ten 
inches  high,  sending  out  opposite  four  cornered  branches 
from  the  very  bottom.  Leaves  ovate,  narrowing  gradually 
towards  each  end  in  acute  points,  indented  on  their  edges. 
The  whole  plant  hairy,  and  has  the  odour  of  cloves. 

BAY  TREE. 

Laurus. 

Laurus,  the  ancient  Latin  name  of  the  Bay  Tree,  for 
which  it  is  retained  by  modern  botanists,  and  along  with 
which  it  now  comprehends  a  great  number  of  species,  consti- 
tuting one  of  the  noblest  genera  in  the  whole  vegetable  king- 
dom. The  origin  of  the  word  is  now  lost  in  the  obscurity  of 
antiquity:  and  whether  etymologists  derive  it  from  lavo,  to 
wash,  or  from  laus,  praise  or  honour,  we  have  not  the  satis- 
faction to  know. 

Bay,  E. — In  Spanish  Baya,  is  a  berry,  the  fruit  of  the 
laurel.  Greek  ,3«tiov,  a  branch  of  the  palm  tree.  It  was  used 
in  the  ancient  purifications.  Jlinsworth. 

What  is  now  called  Bay,  was  formerly  called  Laurel, 
which  has  introduced  some  confusion. 

Laurus,  Latin — Laurel,  English — A*$m,  Greek. 

Daphne,  so  famous  for  her  modesty,  was  transformed 
into  the  Laurel,  or  Bay  tree,  which  is  always  flourishing  and 
pure.  Apollo,  her  lover,  crowned  his  head  with  the  leaves, 
and  ordained  that  for  ever  after,  the  tree  should  be  sacred  to 
him.  He  says  of  the  tree,  alter  the  metamorphosis: — 

Because  thou  canst  not  be 
My  mistress,  I  espouse  thee  for  my  tree: 
Be  thou  the  prize  of  honour  and  renown; 
The  deathless  poet,  and  the  victor  crown. 
Thou  shalt  the  Roman  festivals  adorn, 
And,  after  poets,  be  by  victors  worn. 
«  *  *  * 

Secure  from  thunder,  and  unharm'd  by  Jove, 
Unfading  as  th'  immortal  pow'rs  above : 
And  as  the  locks  of  Phoebus  are  unshorn, 
So  shall  perpetual  green  thy  brows  adorn. 
The  grateful  tree  was  pleas'd  with  what  he  said, 
And  shook  the  shady  honours  of  her  head. 

Dryden's  Ovid. 


The  Bay  has  had  ascribed  to  it  the  property  of  resisting 
lightning: 

There  bays  still  grow,  (by  thunder  not  struck  down,) 
The  victor's  garland,  and  the  poet's  crown. 

W.  Browne. 

Low  at  your  sacred  feet  our  poor  muse  lays 
Her,  and  her  thunder-fearless  bays. 

Beaumont  fy  Fletcher. 

The  Lauras  JVo&iZts,  or  Sweet  Bay,  is  decided  to  be 
the  Daphne  of  Dioscorides;  and,  consequently,  the  classical 
Laurel  of  the  ancients.  It  is  still  called  by  the  same  name 
among  the  modern  Greeks.  It  is  a  native  of  Asia  and  Eu- 
rope. There  are  many  species  of  it,  some  of  them  indigenous 
in  America. 

The  L.  Nobttis  is  a  tree  of  slow  growth.  Leaves  stalk- 
ed, lanceolate,  veiny,  finely  reticulated,  evergreen,  aromatic: 
flowers  four-cleft,  dioecious,  in  short  axillary  clusters,  of  a 
pale  yellow,  borne  only  by  old  trees:  no  calyx. 


The  Laurel  only  to  adorn 
The  conqueror,  and  the  poet. 


Drayton. 


The  Laurel  meed  of  mighty  conquerors, 

And  poets  sage.  Spencer's  Fairy  Queen. 

The  triumphal  crown  of  the  Romans,  was  made  of 
branches  of  Laurel,  or  Bay  tree,  and  given  to  a  General  who 
had  gained  a  battle,  or  conquered  a  province,  and  who  was 
worthy  of  the  honour  of  a  triumph: 

Unchallenged,  let  the  warrior  wear 

The  Laurel  in  his  gory  hair.  J.  JET.  Wiffin. 

Triumphant  Laurels  seem  to  grow 

No  where  so  green  as  on  his  brow.  Butler. 

In  the  genus  Laurus,  are  found  the  Cinnamon  tree,  or 
L.  Cinnamonum,  whose  bark  furnishes  the  spicy  aromatic 
Cinnamon  of  our  shops.  It  is  a  native  of  Ceylon,  an  island 
of  the  East  Indies. 

The  L.  Camphora,  or  Japan  Camphor  tree,  of  this  ge- 
nus, is  that  from  which  the  best  camphor  is  procured.  This 
is  found  in  perpendicular  veins,  near  the  centre  of  the  tree,  or 
concreted  in  the  knots  of  the  wood.  There  is  a  grosser  sort 
prepared  from  the  roots,  which  is  afterwards  refined  by  a 
chemical  process,  into  the  transparent  resin  used  in  medicine. 
The  Camphor  tree,  in  its  general  character,  is  nearly  related 
to  the  Red  Bay  of  America;  so  similar  in  appearance,  that, 
at  a  little  distance,  they  are  easily  confounded. 

The  L.  Cassia,  or  Cassia-bark  tree,  celebrated  from  all 
antiquity,  belongs  to  this  family:  native,  also,  of  the  East  In- 
dies. It  is  noticed  in  the  Old  Testament,  Ps.  xiv.  7,  8.  It 
resembles  the  Cinnamon  in  its  aromatic,  fragrant  bark. 

L.  Sassafras,  American  Sassafras  tree,  is  also  of  this 
genus.  It  was  among  the  first  trees  of  America  which  be- 
came known  to  the  Europeans,  on  account  of  its  medicinal 
virtues. 


L.  Caroliniensis,  American  Red  Bay,  is  another  spe- 
cies, abundant  in  the  Southern  States,  where  it  attains  the 
height  of  from  sixty  to  seventy  feet,  and  from  fifteen  to  twen- 
ty inches  in  diameter.  The  leaves  are  about  six  inches  long, 
alternate,  oval-acuminate,  whitish,  or  glaucous,  on  the  lower 
surface,  and  evergreen.  They  resemble,  in  odour,  those  of 
the  Sweet  Bay,  L.  Nobilis,  and  may  be  employed  in  cooke- 
ry. The  fruit,  or  seed,  is  very  similar  to  those  of  the  Sassa- 
fras, of  a  dark  blue  colour. 

BELVIDERE. 

Scoparia.        Dulcis. 
Jl.  Veronica. 

Veronica,  an  old  but  not  classical  name.  Its  common 
etymology  is  between  the  Greek  and  Latin,  from  Verus,  or 
rather  Vera,  true,  and  the  Greek  sixn,./,  a  figure;  and  this, 
illiterate  and  barbarous  as  it  is,  has  the  sanction  of  the  super- 
stitious legend  of  St.  Veronica,  whose  handkerchief  is  re- 
corded to  have  received  the  impression  of  our  Saviour's  face, 
as  he  used  it  in  bearing  his  cross  to  the  place  of  crucifixion. 

Veronica  is  abbreviated  from  Vericonica,  of  Vera-icon 
q.  d.  true  image.  Veronicas,  in  commerce,  are  imitations  of 
that  celebrated  original  one,  preserved  with  great  veneration 
at  St.  Peter's,  in  Rome;  and  imagined,  by  some,  to  be  the 
handkerchief  laid  over  our  Saviour's  face  in  the  sepulchre. 

Ambrosinus  says,  the  word  Veronica  is  German,  and  ori- 
ginated in  the  druggists'  shops  of  that  country.  He  favours 
the  idea  of  its  being  corrupted  from  Vetonica,  our  Betonica, 
or  Betony. 

Belvidere,  E.,  from  the  Latin  bellus,  fine,  and  video,  to 
see. 

Scoparia,  from  the  Latin  Scopse,  a  broom,  because  the 
plant  is  used  in  the  West  Indies  for  making  brooms. 

Scoparia  Dulcis,  Sweet  Scoparia.  The  leaves  have  a 
sweet  taste  like  liquorice,  whence  its  name  of  Wild  Liquor- 
ice, or  Sweet  Weed,  by  which  it  is  known  in  Jamaica. 
Sloane  says,  that  three  spoonfulls  of  the  expressed  juice  of 
these  leaves,  taken  evening  and  morning,  for  three  days,  is 
counted  an  infallible  remedy  for  any  cough.  It  has  long  been 
known  in  our  green-houses  as  an  annual  of  no  great  beauty. 
It  blossoms  throughout  the  summer:  the  stem  is  very  bushy, 
angular:  leaves  stalked,  an  inch  long,  light  green,  smooth, 
coarsely  and  bluntly  serrated,  tapering  at  the  base:  flowers 
small,  white:  corolla  wheel-shaped,  deeply  four-cleft;  nume- 
rous axillary,  solitary,  on  short  slender  stalks:  calyx  in  four 
deep  equal  segments. 

BIRD'S-FOOT  TREFOIL. 

Lotus. 
(See  Lotos.) 

Lotus,  or  Lotos,  a  name  applied  to  several  herbaceous 
plants,  essential  to  the   maintenance  of  domestic  cattle  in 
countries  sparingly  furnished  with  grass. 
For  Trefoil,  see  clover. 

There  are  several  species  of  the  Bird's-foot  trefoil  noticed 
under  the  article  Lotus.  The  square  podded  Lotus  sili- 
quosus,  with  large  lemon-coloured  flowers — once  cultivated 
for  the  pods  as  a  vegetable;  and,  latterly,  for  its  flowers. 
Roots  perennial. 


The  Crimson-winged  Pea,  or  L.  Tetragonolobus,  is  a 
hardy  annual,  with  deep  crimson  velvety  flowers.  The  pods, 
also,  esculent.  This  species  has  been  celebrated,  as  having 
first  called  the  attention  of  Linnaeus  to  the  sleep  of  the 
plants.  He  observed  its  flowers  to  close  up  in  the  evening, 
and  open  again  in  the  morning. 

Common  Bird's-foot  Trefoil,  L.  Corniculatus,*  usually 
found  in  open  grassy  pastures,  where  it  is  conspicuous  in  the 
Autumn,  with  flowers  of  a  golden  yellow,  more  or  less  stain- 
ed or  striped  with  dark  red:  the  stem  clothed  with  close- 
pressed  hairs:  pod  or  seed-vessel  of  a  shining  brown  or  cop- 
per colour:  roots  perennial — has  been  recommended  for  fod- 
der and  hay,  by  the  name  of  Milk-vetch. 

The  essential  character  of  this  genus,  is  Legume  cylin- 
drical, straight,  wings  cohering  longitudinally  above:  calyx 
tubular;  filaments  dilated  upwards:  corolla  papilionaceous. 

BOX. 
Buxus. 

Buxus,  L.  from  the  Greek  iruj-i;,  a  box,  and  TruS-o;,  the 
tree.  Sax.  box. 

The  Box,  sacred  to  Cybele,  because  the  pipes  used  in 
her  sacrifices  were  made  of  it. 

(See  Tooke's  Pantheon.) 

The  Arborescent  Box,  or  Buxus  Jlrborescens,  (Semper- 
virens,  Linn.)  a  shrubby  tree,  from  twelve  to  sixteen  feet 
high;  is  a  native  oF  most  parts  of  Europe,  from  Britain  south- 
ward, and  in  the  temperate  parts  of  Asia  and  America.  It 
was  much  admired  by  the  ancients,  on  account  of  its  being 
easily  clipped  into  the  shape  of  animals,  and  other  fantastic 
appearances.  The  younger  Pliny  gives  a  florid  description  of 
the  pleasure  grounds  at  one  of  his  country  seats;  in  which, 
among  other  curious  devices,  the  letters  of  his  own  name,  and 
of  other  words,  were  orderly  expressed  in  rows  of  shorn  box. 

The  Dwarf  Box,  or  Buxus  Suffruticosa,  never  rises  to 
a  greater  height  than  about  three  feet,  and  grows  in  thick, 
much-branched  tufts.  It  is  found  wild  in  many  parts  of 
France,  by  the  road  sides,  about  villages,  and  in  stony,  waste 
places,  and  is  said  to  be  truly  indigenous. 

It  is  used  in  gardening,  to  divide  beds  from  the  walks  of 
flower-gardens,  and  has  great  durability.  R.  E. 

The  Box  is  too  well  known  to  require  a  botanical  de- 
scription. 

BROOM. 

Genista. 

Genista,  either  from  Genu,  a  knee — in  allusion  to  the 
bending  of  the  twigs;  or  from  Geno,  to  produce:  because  it 
grows  wild  in  abundance.  Not  a  very  clear  etymology. 

Bees'  Encyclopedia. 

Broom,  E. — Sax.  brum,  so  called  from  its  being  made 
into  brooms  to  sweep  with. 

Genista,  Green-weed,  Dwarf  Broom,  Scotch  Broom, 
8tc.  A  genus  of  shrubs  almost  entirely  European,  with  tough 
angular  stems  and  branches,  either  ternate  or  simple  leaves, 
and  yellow  flowers :  calyx  a  perianth  inferior,  of  one  leaf, 
small,  tubular,  two-lipped,  the  upper  lip  with  two  teeth,  lower 


*  Corniculatus,  Latin — Horned,  like  the  Moon. 


with  three.     Corolla  papilionaceous,  standard  oblong,  bent 
backwards  from  the  rest  of  the  flower. 

Sweet  blooms  Genista  in  the  myrtle  shade, 

And  ten  fond  brothers  woo  the  haughty  maid. 

Darwin. 

In  allusion  to  the  ten  stamens  being  united  at  the  bot- 
tom into  one  brotherhood,  and  with  the  single  pistil  inhabit- 
ing the  same  flower. 

In  France,  the  Broom  is  regarded  as  the  emblem  of 
Humility.  Garland  of  Flora. 

The  Encyclopedia  states,  that  the  term  Plantagenet 
lias  given  infinite  perplexity  to  the  etymologists  and  antiqua- 
rians. It  is  allowed  to  have  belonged  to  the  house  of  Anjou ; 
and  was  brought  to  the  throne  of  England  by  Henry  the  Se- 
cond, where  it  was  preserved  by  his  posterity,  till  the  time  of 
Henry  the  Eighth,  a  space  of  above  four  hundred  years. 

Skinner  tells  us  that  "  the  house  of  Anjou  derived  the 
name  Plantagenet  from  a  prince  thereof,  who  having  killed 
his  brother,  to  enjoy  his  principality,  afterwards  repented, 
and  made  a  voyage  to  the  Holy  Land  to  expiate  his  crime; 
disciplining  himself  every  night  with  a  rod  made  of  the  plant 
Genet,  Genista,  broom."  And  we  are  told,  elsewhere,  that 
he  became  nick-named  Planta-genet,  from  the  use  he  had 
made  of  the  Broom,  or  Genista. 

Lemon,  in  his  English  Etymology,  says:  "It  is  very 
observable,  that  fourteen  princes  of  the  family  of  Plantagenet 
have  sate  on  the  throne  of  England  for  upwards  of  three  hun- 
dred years,  and  yet  very  few  of  our  countrymen  have  known 
either  the  reason  of  that  appellation,  or  the  etymology  of  it: 
but  history  tells  us,  that  Geofry,  earl  of  Anjou,  acquired  the 
surname  of  Plantagenet  from  the  incident  of  his  wearing  a 
sprig  of  Broom  in  his  helmet,  on  a  day  of  battle.  This 
Geofry  was  second  husband  to  Matilda,  or  Maud,  empress 
of  Germany,  and  daughter  of  Henry  I.,  of  England :  and  from 
this  Plantagenet  family  were  descended  all  our  Edwards  and 
Henrys." 

Of  the  Broom  there  are  three  varieties — the  yellow,  vio- 
let, and  white  flowering. 

Their  groves  of  sweet  myrtle  let  foreign  lands  reckon, 
Where  bright  beaming  summers  exalt  the  perfume; 
Far  dearer  to  me  yon  lone  glen  o'  green  breckan, 
Wi'  the  burn  stealing  under  the  lang  yellow  broom. 

Burns. 

The  wilding  broom  as  sweet,  which  gracefully 
Flings  its  long  tresses,  waving  in  yellow  beauty. 

Landon. 

The  humble  Broom  and  osiers  have  their  use, 
And  shade  for  sheep,  and  food  for  flocks  produce. 

Dryden. 

The  broom  and  the  furze  are  perpetually  associated. 
They  both  bear  papilionaceous  flowers.  The  furze  is  some- 
times called,  by  botanists,  Genista  Spinosa,  and  also  Ulex 
Europceus,  provincially  Whin  or  Gorse.  This  grows  abund- 
antly in  England:  and  it  is  recorded  of  Linnsus,  that  when 
he  visited  England,  in  1736,  he  was  so  much  delighted  with 
the  golden  bloom  of  the  furze,  which  he  then  saw  for  the 


first  time,  on  a  common  near  London,  that  he  fell  on  his 
knees,  enraptured  at  the  sight.  He  conveyed  some  of  the 
plants  to  Sweden;  and  he  complains  in  Hort.  Upsal,  212, 
that  he  could  never  preserve  it  in  his  garden,  through  the 
winter. 

Of  the  furze,  the  common  yellow  and  the  white,  are 
ranked  under  the  head  of  evergreens- 
Here  the  furze 

Enriched  among  its  spines,  with  golden  flowers, 
Scents  the  keen  air.  Charlotte  Smith. 

The  gorse  is  yellow  on  the  heath, 

The  banks  with  speedwell  flowers  are  gay.  Same. 

The  purple  heath,  and  golden  broom, 

Which  scent  the  passing  gale.  Montgomery. 

BUTTER  CUP. 

Ranunculus.    Jlcris. 

Ranunculus,  derived  from  Rana,  and  means  a  little 
frog.  It  is  possible  that  the  divisions  of  the  leaves  may  have 
suggested  the  idea  of  a  frog's  foot,  which  supposition  is  con- 
firmed by  the  English  name  Crow-foot. 

It  is  an  extensive  and  varied  herbaceous  genus:  the  seed, 
in  no  instance,  ever  producing  two  flowers  alike,  or  one  si- 
milar to  the  parent  plant.  The  prevailing  colour  of  the  flower 
is  yellow;  yet  it  embraces  all  colours,  from  black  down  to 
white:  blue  is  one  of  its  most  rare  colours. 

The  plants  of  Ranunculus  have  a  caustic  and  burning 
quality,  injurious  to  men  and  cattle;  particularly  sheep:  and 
it  was  with  one  kind  of  Ranunculus  that  the  ancients  poison- 
ed their  arrows. 

The  essential  mark  of  this  genus,  consists,  according  to 
Linnaeus,  in  the  nectary;  the  rest  of  the  parts  being  uncer- 
tain. The  nectary,  in  some  species,  is  a  naked  pore;  in  some, 
it  is  bordered  with  a  cylindrical  margin ;  in  others,  closed  with 
a  notched  scale. 

Its  general  character  is  that  of  a  perianth,  of  five  ovate, 
concave,  somewhat  coloured,  deciduous  leaves:  corolla  of  five 
petals,  obtuse,  polished:  with  small  claws:  nectary  a  cavity 
in  each  petal,  just  above  the  claw. 

The  Ranunculus  Acris,  Butter-cup,  or  King-cup,  is  a 
native  of  meadows  and  pastures,  flowering  from  May  to 
August.  Called  Butter-cup,  from  blooming  at  the  season 
when  the  best  butter  is  made.  The  double-flowered  variety  is 
frequent  in  gardens. 

And  fairies  now,  no  doubt,  unseen, 

In  silent  revels  sup; 
With  dew-drop  bumpers  toast  their  queen, 

From  crow-flower's  golden  cup.  Clare. 

Let  weeds,  instead  of  butter-flowers,  appear, 

And  meads,  instead  of  daisies,  hemlock  wear.          Gay. 

Bright  flowing  king-cups  promise  future  wealth. 

Garland  of  Flora. 


CALLA  ^THIOPICA. 
•Arum  JEthi&picum. 

Jlrum,  supposed  to  be  derived  from  a  Greek  word  »£*, 
signifying  injury.  I  suppose  from  the  acrimonious  quality  of 
the  root,  which,  if  cut  in  slices,  and  applied  to  the  skin,  will 
blister  the  part. 

The  *#.  Maculatum,  or  common  Arum,  is  the  only  spe- 
cies indigenous  in  Britain,  and  is  used  medicinally.  Its  me- 
dicinal efficacy  resides  wholly  in  the  active  volatile  matter, 
•which  is  completely  dissipated  by  drying,  or  the  application 
of  heat,  so  as  to  leave  the  root  a  bland  farinaceous  aliment. 

There  is  a  species,  JLrum  Virginicum,  Virginian  Arum, 
which  grows  wild  in  wet  places  in  Virginia,  Carolina  and 
Pennsylvania,  &tc.,  of  which  the  savages  are  said  to  be  very 
fond.  They  boil  the  spadix,  with  the  berries,  and  devour  it 
as  a  great  dainty.  There  are  several  species  of  the  Arum  in- 
digenous in  America. 

Calla,  is  derived,  according  to  some  authors,  from  the 
Greek  X«A.\OS,  beauty.  According  to  Professor  Martyn,  from 
x»\x.»iov,  Gr.,  the  wattles  of  a  cock. 

The  Calla  Ethiopica — Ethiopian  Calla,  Cuckoo-pint, 
Wake- robin,  Dragon-plant,  Friar's-cowl,  Eve's-apron,  all 
English  names  applied  to  it,  is  a  species  of  Jlrum — a  native 
of  the  cape  of  Good  Hope.  The  flower  is  beautiful.  Its 
alabaster  white  calyx  expands  into  so  elegant  a  vase-like  shape, 
that  Flora  seems  to  have  intended  it  for  the  hand  of  Hebe, 
when  she  presents  the  imperial  nectar  to  Jove.  This  vegeta- 
ble cup  also  pours  out  an.  agreeable  perfume  from  its  graceful 
and  beautiful  horn.  Its  appearance,  in  a  group  of  plants,  re- 
minds us  of  a  beautiful  antique  lamp  for  burning  incense; 
which  illusion  the  flame-coloured  spadix,  arising  out  of  the 
centre  of  the  white  calix,  considerably  increases.  It  has  ar- 
row-shaped leaves,  clustering  from  the  root,  eight  or  nine 
inches  long,  of  a  shining  green,  ending  in  a  point,  which  turns 
backwards  on  petioles  more  than  a  foot  long,  furrowed,  and 
sheathing  at  their  base.  The  white  spathe,  a  little  fleshy, 
twisted  at  the  bottom,  but  spread  open  at  the  top,  suddenly 
contracting,  and  ending  in  a  point.  The  spadix  yellowish, 
cylindrical,  about  half  the  length  of  the  spathe.  Stamens 
above,  pistils  below,  set  so  closely  together,  that  they  are 
not  easily  distinguished.  The  seeds  are  roundish,  dark- 
brown  and  smooth. 

CALYCANTHUS  FLORIDUS. 
Carolina  Jlllspice;  or 
Sweet-scented  Shrub. 

Calycanthus,  from  the  Greek  x*\us,  calyx;  and  «vdo;, 
a  flower.  So  called,  because  the  calyx  resembles  a  corolla. 
Linnaeus  gives  the  flower  no  corolla,  but  a  calyx  with  many 
divisions  in  two  concentric  ranks,  all  resembling  petals. 

Jussieu  observed,  that  the  inner  rank  probably  consists 
of  petals.  A  shrub  three  or  four  feet  high:  stem  irregularly 
branched;  covered  with  a  brown  aromatic  bark.  Leaves 
opposite,  egg-shaped:  flowers  of  a  dusky  purple;  the  petals 
incurved  at  the  top.  A  native  of  Carolina.  The  seeds  are 
thought  to  be  poisonous  to  dogs  and  foxes. 

CAMELLIA  JAPONICA. 

Japan  Rose. 
Camellia,  so  named  in  honour  of  Geo.  Joseph  Kamel,  a 


Jesuit,  whose  name  has  been  Latinized  into  Camellus;  au- 
thor of  Syllabus  Stirpium,  &.c.,  annexed  to  the  third  volume 
of  Ray's  Historia  Plantarum. 

Camellia  Japonica — a  lofty,  large,  evergreen  tree: 
leaves  alternate,  egg-shaped,  acute,  shining  on  both  sides, 
thick  and  stiff,  paler  green  beneath,  on  short  leaf-stalks. 
Flowers  large  and  beautiful,  in  the  form  of  the  rose:  those 
raised  in  Europe,  of  a  lively  red;  but  in  their  native  country, 
they  exhibit  a  variety  of  colours.  Its  flowers  readily  become 
double,  in  which  state  they  often  occur  in  Chinese  paintings. 
A  native  of  China  and  Japan — introduced  into  England,  be- 
fore 1742,  by  Robert  James,  Lord  Petre. 

As  Venus  wander'd  'midst  the  Italian  bower, 
And  mark'd  the  loves  and  graces  round  her  play; 
She  pluck'd  a  musk-rose  from  its  dew-bent  spray, 
"And  this,"  she  cried,  "shall  be  my  favourite  flower; 
For  o'er  its  crimson  leaflets  I  will  shower 
Dissolving  sweets  to  steal  the  soul  away; 
That  Dian's  self  shall  own  their  sov'reign  sway, 
And  feel  the  influence  of  my  mightier  power." 

Then  spoke  fair  Cynthia,  as  severe  she  smiled, — 
"Be  others  by  thy  amorous  arts  beguiled; 
Ne'er  shall  thy  dang'rous  gifts  these  brows  adorn; 
To  me  more  dear  than  all  their  rich  perfume 
The  chaste  Camellia's  pure  and  spotless  bloom, 
That  boasts  no  fragrance,  and  conceals  no  thorn." 

Wm.  Roscoe,  Esq. 

CANTERBURY  BELL. 

Campanula.    Medium. 

Campanula,  Latin,  For  a.' little  bell. 

Root  biennial.  The  plant  decays  after  having  matured 
its  seeds.  The  seeds  should  be  sown  in  the  spring  and  trans- 
planted in  the  autumn,  preparatory  to  its  flowering  the  fol- 
lowing year. 

Stem  two  feet  high.  Root-leaves  narrowed  at  the  base 
into  long  leaf-stalks,  slightly  scolloped,  hairy,  harsh  to  the 
touch.  Stem-leaves  oblong,  scolloped.  Flowers  blue,  pur- 
ple, or  white,  large — Monopetalous. 

Native  of  woods  on  the  continent  of  Europe. 

CAPE  JASMINE. 
Gardenia.    Florida. 

Gardenia,  so  named  by  Ellis,  in  honour  of  his  able  friend 
and  correspondent,  Dr.  Alexander  Garden — an  eminent 
botanist  and  zoologist — a  Scotchman,  who  settled  at  Charles- 
ton, S.  C.,  in  1752:  a  correspondent,  also,  of  Linnaeus.  Dur- 
ing the  political  disturbances  in  America,  he,  being  a  loyalist, 
took  refuge  in  Europe;  and,  in  1761,  he  was  elected  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Royal  Academy  of  Upsal. 

The  original  idea  and  character  of  this  genus  are  taken 
from  the  G.  Florida,  first  carried  to  England  by  Captain 
Hutchinson,  in  full  bloom,  from  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope. 
Gordon,  the  nursery-man,  having  obtained  layers,  propagated 
it  so  successfully,  as  to  have  gained  more  than  Jive  hundred 
pounds  by  the  produce.  The  flowers  are  always  double,  like 
those  of  the  original  shrub;  with  only  imperfect  traces  of  an- 
thers: but  many  specimens,  with  sii  gle  flowers,  have  been 


brought  from  the  East  Indies,  where  it  grows  wild,  as  well  as 
in  China  and  Japan. 

St em  shrubby,  three  or  four  feet  high:  leaves  opposite, 
on  short  stalks,  elliptical,  bluntly  pointed,  entire,  smooth, 
veiny,  evergreen.  Flowers  solitary,  of  the  size  and  aspect 
of  a  double  Narcissus  Poeticus,  (which  is  the  largest  of  the 
white  kinds,  with  a  crimson  border  on  the  cup  of  the  necta- 
ry,) with  a  sweet  and  very  powerful  scent,  resembling  the  fla- 
vour of  ginger. 

CARDINAL'S  FLOWER. 

Lobelia.     Cardinalis. 

Lobelia,  so  called  in  honour  of  Matthias  de  Lobel,  or 
1}  Obel,  a  botanist,  contemporary  with  Chisius,  whose  wood- 
en cuts,  for  the  most  part,  re-appeared  in  his  works.  He 
was,  at  one  time,  physician  to  the  illustrious  Prince  of  Orange, 
and  to  the  States  of  Holland.  Born  at  Lisle,  in  Flanders,  in 
1538.  He  removed  to  England  before  the  year  1750,  and 
was  appointed  botanist  and  physician  to  James  the  First,  of 
England.  He  had,  at  one  time,  the  superintendence  of  Lord 
Zouch's  garden,  at  Hackney,  during  the  latter  part  of  the 
reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  He  was  one  of  the  contributors 
to  a  work  entitled  the  Adversaria,  dedicated  to  Queen  Eliza- 
beth. The  aim  of  the  authors  of  this  work,  was  to  investi- 
gate the  botany  and  ma.te.via  medica  of  the  ancients;  and 
especially  of  Dioscorides.  In  the  decline  of  life,  he  lived  at 
Highgate;  and  died  in  1616 — aged  78. 

The  Cardinal's  flower,  Lobelia  Cardinalis,  was  intro- 
duced into  Great  Britain  in  the  reign  of  the  First  Charles; 
whose  herbalist,  Parkinson,  mentions  it  as  a  "  brave  plant." 
We  presume  it  was  called  CardinaPs  flower  on  account  of 
the  bright  red  colour  of  the  corollas.  It  is  a  native  of  North 
America,  growing  by  the  sides  of  rivers  and  ditches.  Its 
roots  perennial;  stems  three  feet  high,  leafy :  flowers  rich, 
and  vivid  scarlet. 

The  L.  Fulgens,  Refulgent  Lobelia;  and  the  L.  Splen- 
dous,  Shining  Lobelia,  are  still  more  brilliant:  they  are 
Mexican  plants;  and  when  cultivated  with  care,  the  crimson 
flowers  assume  a  degree  of  magnificence  scarcely  surpassed 
by  any  other  plant. 

The  foliage  of  the  Splendid,  or  Shining  Lobelia,  is  mark- 
ed with  dashes  of  a  rich  puce  colour;  which,  together  with 
the  claret  coloured  flower-stalks,  adds  greatly  to  the  beauty  of 
the  plant.  The  stems  from  five  to  six  feet  high. 

The  Blue  Lobelia,  much  used  in  medicine,  grows 
abundantly  in  the  middle  and  southern  states  of  North  Ame- 
rica, in  moist  grounds.  The  stem  erect,  (not  branched, 
like  the  L.  Inflata,)  rather  hairy,  from  one  to  three  or  four 
feet  high;  leaves  ovate,  lanceolate,  unequally  serrate;  raceme 
leafy;  calyx,  hairy,  with  sinuses  reflexed;  flowers,  large, 
bright  blue,  on  short  peduncles.  Every  part  of  the  plant 
abounds  with  a  milky  juice,  and  has  a  strong,  disagreeable 
odour.  The  root,  which  is  the  part  used  in  medicine,  resem- 
bles tobacco  in  taste,  and  is  apt  to  excite  nausea.  It  flowers 
all  the  summer. 

CATCH  FLY. 

Silene. 
Silene,  a  name  given  to  this  genus  by  Linnaeus,  in  allu- 


•*•• 


••*• 


sion  to  the  viscid  moisture  of  its  stalks,  under  the  flowers  of 
this  plant,  by  which  flies  of  the  smaller  kind  are  entrapped: 
a  curious  contrivance  of  Nature,  to  prevent  various  insects 
from  plundering  the  honey,  or  devouring  the  seed.  The 
word  Silenc,  probably  derived  from  the  Greek  <r>«\ov;  Latin, 
saliva.  De  Theis  deduces  it  more  directly  from  the  drunk- 
en god  Silenus,  whose  name  he  supposes  to  have  a  similar 
origin : 

The  fell  Silene,  and  her  Bisters  fair, 

Skill'd  in  destruction,  spread  the  viscous  snare. 

»,.'»."•'.'» 

Haste,  glittering  nations,  tenants  of  the  air, 
Oh,  steer  from  hence  your  viewless  course  afar! 
If  with  soft  words        *        *        *        * 
The  three  dread  syrens  lure  you  to  their  toils, 
Limed  by  their  art,  in  vain  you  point  your  stings, 
In  vain  the  efforts  of  your  whirring  wings ! 

Darwin. 

The  general  character  of  this  genus  is,  a  calyx  of  one 
leaf,  swelling;  petals  five;  with  erect,  narrow  claws,  the 
length  of  the  calyx;  bordered  with  a  membrane,  capsule  su- 
perior, imperfectly  three  celled,  bursting  at  the  top;  seeds 
numerous,  kidney-shaped,  attached  to  a  central  receptacle. 

There  are  varieties  of  pink — white,  purple,  and  variegat- 
ed flowers.  They  are  hardy,  herbaceous,  annual  and  peren- 
nial plants. 

CEDAR. 

Juniperus. 

Juniperus,  an  ancient  Latin  name;  of  whose  meaning 
or  derivation,  no  account  is  given. 

The  Juniperus  Virginiana,  Virginian  Juniper,  or  Red 
Cedar — native  of  North  America,  the  West  India  islands, 
and  Japan.  The  wood  of  this  tree  is  celebrated  for  its  pow- 
erful fragrance,  and  for  resisting  the  attacks  of  insects;  being 
the  well  known  red  cedar  used  in  lead  pencils,  &tc.  It  is  the 
most  common  of  its  genus  in  the  United  States.  The  foliage 
is  evergreen,  numerously  subdivided,  and  composed  of  small 
sharp  scales,  enchased  in  one  another.  The  flowers  are  small 
and  inconspicuous:  no  corolla,  only  a  calyx.  The  seeds  are 
small,  ovate  berries,  bluish  when  ripe,  and  covered  with  a 
white  exudation.  From  these  berries  the  spirituous  Gin  is 
prepared. 

CHINA  ASTER;  or,  STARWORT. 

Jlster  Chinensis. 

(For  Jlster,  see  American  Starwort.) 
The  China  Jlster  has  the  largest  and  handsomest  flow- 
ers of  any  of  this  genus.  Flowers,  single  and  double,  white, 
blue,  purple,  red,  and  variegated,  blue  and  white.  Height 
from  eighteen  inches  to  two  feet;  a  well  known  annual 
plant.  Leaves  ovate,  angular,  toothed,  petioled;  calyx  ex- 
panding, leafy,  terminal;  disk  yellow,  floscules  of  the  ray, 
broad  and  long;  seeds  ripened  in  autumn. 

CHINESE  CHRYSANTHEMUM. 

Chrysanthemum  Indicum. 
Chrysanthemum,  from  Chrusos,  the  Greek  for  gold, 


and  Jlnthos,  a  flower — a  generic  name  given  to  these  plants, 
because  the  species  most  familiar  to  the  Greeks  produced 
flowers  of  a  gold  colour.  This  shows  the  error  of  forming 
the  generic  name  of  plants  from  the  colour,  when  the  same 
species  may  present  all  the  colours  of  the  rainbow. 

The  Indian,  or  Chinese  Chrysanthemum,  was  introduced 
into  Europe  as  early  as  1764.  There  are  already  thirty  vari- 
eties of  it.  It  may  now  be  considered  a  hardy  perennial 
plant.  The  varieties  differ  in  the  shape  of  their  leaves;  some 
having  their  serratures  much  deeper  cut  than  others.  The 
greater  number  have  an  odour  resembling  that  of  the  chamo- 
mile  flower.  Stem  somewhat  woody,  two  or  three  feet  high, 
much  branched:  leaves  alternate,  and  serrated;  upper  sur- 
face deep  green;  lower,  soft  to  the  touch,  and  clothed  with  a 
slight  down:  Jlowers  large,  solitary,  terminating  the  branch- 
es: calyx  common,  hemispherical,  imbricated:  corolla  com- 
pound, radiated:  receptacle  naked. 

CLOVER  RED. 

Trifolium. 

Trifolium,  the  Triphullon  of  the  Greeks—  Trefle  of  the 
French;  from  which  last  is  more  immediately  derived  our 
Trefoil:  names,  all  expressive  of  the  same  idea,  of  three 
leaves,  or  leaflets,  growing  on  one  stalk. 

Clover,  E.  more  properly  claver.  Dutch  klaver.  The 
word  is  no  doubt  from  the  Saxon  word  clozfcr,  to  cleave,  from 
the  appearance  of  the  cloven  leaves.  Johnson. 

Clover-grass — Saxon  clsefer-wyrt,  clover-wort.  Dutch 
klaver.  The  D.  word  signifies  a  club.  The  name  signifies 
club-grass,  club-wort.  Latin  clava,  a  club,  from  its  flower. 

Webster. 

The  desert  with  sweet  claver  fills, 

And  richly  shades  the  joyful  hills. 

Sandys,  see  Johnson. 

The  different  species  of  Trefoil  always  contract  their 
leaves  at  the  approach  of  a  storm :  hence  these  plants  have 
been  termed  the  husbandman's  barometer. 

To  live  in  clover,  is  to  live  luxuriously,  or  in  abund- 
ance. 

The  purple  or  red  Trefoil,  or  Clover  T.  Pratense,  with 
terminal  spikes  of  numerous  flowers,  their  petals  united  at 
the  base,  and  combined  with  the  filaments :  calyx  hairy,  ten- 
ribbed,  much  shorter  than  the  corolla;  a  sweet  but  faint 
scent;  blooms  all  the  summer  through,  from  May  to  Septem- 
ber: affording  an  abundant  return  of  profit  to  those  who  have 
the  industry  to  attend  properly  to  its  cultivation.  It  is  a 
well  known  biennial,  perennial  plant,  of  the  artificial  grass 
kind,  whose  roots  are  apt  to  decay  after  they  have  perfected 
their  seed;  it  is,  therefore,  necessary  to  be  diligent  in  crop- 
ping, or  mowing  it,  when  it  begins  to  flower:  the  roots  then 
send  up  new  shoots,  whereby  the  plant  is  continued  longer 
than  it  would  naturally  do.  One  acre  of  red  or  broad  clover 
will  go  as  far  in  feeding  cattle,  as  three  or  four  of  natural  grass. 
The  best  clover-seed  is  that  where  the  purple  colour  chiefly 
prevails. 

Pliny  designates  clover  as  the  sweet  and  honeyed  Lotus. 
"The  field  clover  that  grew  in  Campagne,  about  Rome,  the 
bees,  you  know,  are  very  fond  of  it." 


Shamrock,  is  the  Irish  name  for  three-leaved  grass,  or 
Trefoil. 

Saint  Patrick,  (the  tutelar  saint  of  Ireland,)  is  said,  while 
preaching  to  the  pagan  Irish,  to  have  used  the  Trefoil,  or 
Shamrock,  to  explain  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity;  which  so 
operated  on  their  conviction,  that  a  sprig  of  this  grass  is  ever 
since  worn  by  the  Irish,  on  the  anniversary  of  the  saint,  com- 
memorative of  the  event. 

The  order  of  St.  Patrick,  was  instituted  by  George  III., 
in  1783.  The  badge  of  this  order  is  a  saltier  red,  on  a  field 
azure,  surrounded  with  a  Shamrock,  or  Trefoil  vert,  charged 
with  three  imperial  crowns,  or  within  a  garter;  on  which  is 
the  motto  quis  separabit — "  who  shall  separate  them."  The 
whole  is  surrounded  by  a  star  of  silver,  with  eight  points;  all 
which  is  embroidered,  and  worn  on  the  outer  garment  of  the 
knights  of  the  order. 

CRESTED  AMARANTH;  or,  COCK'S  COMB. 
Celosia  Cristata. 

Celosia,  the  generic  name  of  this  singular  plant,  is  de- 
rived from  the  Greek  x>ixsc;,  brilliant,  or  x>txea!,  to  entice,  or 
enchant.  The  English  name  Cock's  comb,  and  the  French 
Crete  de  Coq,  is  given  on  account  of  the  resemblance  which 
the  crested  head,  or  mass  of  flowers,  bears  to  the  crest,  or 
comb  of  a  cock. 

It  is  a  native  of  Asia:  cultivated  to  such  perfection  in 
Persia,  China,  and  Japan,  that  the  crests,  or  heads  of  the 
flowers,  are  said  to  be  frequently  a  foot  in  length  and 
breadth. 

It  is  an  annual  plant,  with  angular,  striated  st ems :  leaves 
alternate,  acute,  narrowed  into  a  petiole  at  the  base,  some- 
times a  little  curved:  flowers  so  numerous  and  small,  and  so 
closely  set  together,  on  an  irregular,  flattish  surface,  as  to  look 
more  like  a  piece  of  rich  velvet,  than  a  vegetable  substance, 
sometimes  branched  at  the  base.  The  form  of  the  crests  are 
so  variable  as  seldom  to  give  two  of  the  same  shape.  The 
colours,  orange-yellow,  bright  red,  purple,  white,  and  some- 
times variegated. 

COLUMBINE. 

JlquUegia. 

Jlquilegia,  from  Jlquila,  an  Eagle;  the  nectaries  being 
fancied  to  resemble  an  Eagle's  talon. 

Columbine,  from  Columba,  a  Pigeon — from  a  supposed 
resemblance  the  same  parts  of  the  flower  bear  to  the  head  of 
a  Pigeon. 

Some  etymologists  are  of  opinion,  that  the  name  of  Jlqui- 
legia  is  given  to  this  plant,  because  the  leaves,  when  not  fully 
expanded,  collect  and  gather  a  great  deal  of  rain  water. 

Darwin  tells  us  that  in  Jlquilegia  (or  Columbine)  the 
nectary  is  imagined  to  be  like  the  neck  and  body  of  a  bird, 
and  the  two  petals  standing  upon  each  side  to  represent  wings, 
whence  its  name  of  Columbine,  as  if  resembling  a  nest  of 
young  pigeons  fluttering  whilst  their  parent  feeds  them.  [See 
his  note  upon  Lonicera.] 

The  roots  are  perennial.  Flowers  of  various  colours, 
purple,  blue,  red,  white,  &c. 


The  dark  blue  or  purple-flowered,  Jl.  vulgaris,  common 
Columbine,  about  three  feet  high,  is  of  European  growth. 

The  Jl.  Canadensis,  red  flowering  Columbine,  is  a  na- 
tive of  North  America,  from  Canada,  to  Carolina:  and  was 
carried  from  Virginia  to  Europe  by  Tradescant.  It  is  a  more 
graceful  and  delicate  plant  than  the  purple.  Its  very  slender 
stems  are  reddish.  Corollas,  yellow  within,  and  red  with- 
out. Lower  leaves  biternate,  irregularly  divided,  the  extreme 
lobes  blunt;  the  upper  lobes  simply  ternate,  toothed,  or  per- 
fectly entire:  the  uppermost,  simple,  lanceolate,  acuminate. 

CONVOLVULUS; 
Or,  Bind  Weed. 

Convolvulus,  perhaps  from  Convolve,  to  wrap  or  wind 
about,  to  envelope,  to  encompass — as  many  of  the  species  are 
twining. 

Indigenous  in  Europe,  America,  and  the  Indies. 

The  Convolvulus  opens  and  closes  its  monopetalous 
flower  with  folds  similar  to  those  of  a  parasol,  and  are  never 
expanded  at  night,  or  in  wet  weather,  in  order  that  the  anthers 
and  stigma  may  be  guarded  from  the  humidity  of  the  air. 


Convolvulus,  expand  thy  cup-like  flower, 
Graceful  in  form,  and  beautiful  in  hue! 


Barton. 


u  Flowers,  which  shrinking  from  the  chilly  night, 
Droop  and  shut  up;  but,  with  fair  morning's  touch 
Rise  on  their  stems,  all  open  and  upright." 

The  character  of  this  genus  is  a  five-cleft  calyx,  bell,  or 
funnel-shaped  corolla,  plaited  border  generally  spreading, 
more  or  less  five  lobed.  Leaves,  heart-shaped. 

ARKANSA.  COREOPSIS. 
Coreopsis  tinctoria. 

Coreopsis,  from  the  Greek  xo?i;,  a  bug,  and  ejr;i?,  ap- 
pearance; alluding  to  a  fancied  resemblance  between  the 
seed  and  an  insect. 

Tinctoria,  from  the  Latin  tinctura,  a  colour  or  dye. 

Jlrkansa,  indicates  the  situation  from  whence  it  was 
taken  by  Professor  Nuttall. 

Mr.  Pastie  of  the  Royal  Academy  of  Sciences  of  Paris, 
advances  the  new  hypothesis,  that  it  is  of  more  consequence 
(in  a  medical  point  of  view)  to  know  the  exact  natural  situa- 
tion of  a  plant,  than  knowing  the  genus.  He  observes,  that, 
all  plants  which  grow  on  high  cold  grounds  have  a  tonic  and 
stimulating  power,  whilst  those  are  found  to  have  a  contrary 
quality,  which  are  natives  of  opposite  situations. 

(Sec  Mauri's  Botany.) 

The  Jlrkansa  Coreopsis,  is  a  very  pretty  slender  grow- 
ing annual,  of  from  two  to  three  feet  high.  Flowers  terminal. 
Petals  wedge-shaped,  generally  three-toothed  at  the  point, 
the  middle  tooth  longest,  and  often  notched,  of  a  bright  golden 
colour,  with  a  dark  crimson  spot  at  the  base.  Florets  of  the 
disk  black-purple;  but  the  styles  and  stigma  being  yellow, 
occasion  the  outer  rim,  when  the  florets  are  expanded,  to  ap- 
pear yellow. 


•*•• 


COWSLIP. 
Primula.     Fens. 
(See  Primrose.) 

Primula  veris,  sulphur  coloured  Cowslip. 
Called  Cowslip,  as  some  think,  from  their  odour  resem- 
bling the  breath  of  a  cow; — or,  perhaps,  from  their  growing 
much  in  pasture  grounds,  and  often  meeting  the  cow's-lip. 

Johnson. 

The  blossoms  of  the  P.  veris  (or  common  European 
Cowslip)  communicate  their  aromatic  fragrance,  and  narcotic 
quality,  to  made  wines,  which  thence  have  a  resemblance  to 
the  Muscadel  wines  of  the  south  of  France. 

>— For  want  of  rest, 

Lettuce  and  Cowslip  wine :  probatum  est.  Pope. 

Thy  little  sons 

Permit  to  range  the  pastures;  gladly  they 

Will  mow  the  Cowslip  posies,  faintly  sweet, 

From  whence  thou  artificial  wines  shall  drain 

Of  icy  taste,  that  in  mid  fervours,  best 

Slack  craving  thirst,  and  mitigate  the  day.  Philips. 

The  flowers  of  the  Cowslip  are  frequently  mixed  with 
tea,  to  give  it  a  flavour.  The  leaves  were  formerly  eaten 
in  sallad.  Flora  Historica. 

How  cheerful  along  the  gay  mead 

The  Daisy  and  Cowslip  appear.  Milton. 

Pale  Primrose,  in  whose  cup 

The  pearly  dew  glitters.  B.  Barton, 

The  uncommon  beauty  of  the  American  Cowslip,  or 
JWeadia,  occasioned  Linnaeus  to  give  it  the  generic  name  of 
Dodecatheon,  and  Dr.  Mead  to  affix  his  name  to  it. 

Dodecatheon,  is  derived  from  two  Greek  words  signify- 
ing twelve  and  a  divinity.  An  old  name  for  the  Cowslip, 
supposed  to  signify  the  twelve  heathen  gods.  Or,  as  some 
suppose,  to  allude  to  the  twelve  Caesars,  who  were  comme- 
morated in  the  circle  of  twelve  flowers,  or  thereabouts,  com- 
posing its  umbel.  The  idea  is  rather  far-fetched,  and  the  Cae- 
sars, for  the  most  part,  were  unworthy  of  any  such  elegant 
commemoration.  However  this  may  be,  Linnaeus  retained 
the  appellation  for  a  new  genus,  akin  to  the  Cowslip,  which 
had  been  called  J\Teadia,  after  Dr.  Mead,  a  name,  which 
Linnaeus  rejected  as  unworthy  for  generic,  though  he  pre- 
served it  in  the  specific  one. 

The  only  species  described  is  the  Meadia,  which  is  a  na- 
tive of  Virginia.  A  hardy  perennial,  that  bears  the  severest 
cold,  flowering  in  June.  When  it  was  first  sent  to  England, 
it  was  raised  from  the  seed,  by  Mr.  Peter  Collinson,  and  the 
leaves  proved  so  like  those  of  the  lettuce,  that  he  apprehended 
some  mistake,  till  the  beautiful  powers  came  forth. 

CROCUS. 

Crocus,  a  Latin  name>  translated  by  Ainsworth,  a  Saf- 
fron j"  also  "the  yellow  chives  in  the  midst  of  flowers." 


Saffron,  the  xeox«s  of  the  Greeks— Crocus,  of  the  La- 
tin— Zajffbran,  or  Zah  afaran,  of  the  Arabians,  (from  which 
last,  according  to  Skinner,  comes  its  English  name  of  Saffron,) 
and  Carcom,  of  the  Hebrews,  who  held  it  in  much  estima- 
tion. It  has  been  greatly  celebrated  in  ancient  times,  both 
by  physicians  and  poets. 

We  are  told  that  the  Saffron  of  the  shops,  is  the  odorous 
aromatic  stigmas  of  the  Crocus  sativus,  or  officinalis,  a  na- 
tive of  Greece,  and  Asia  Minor.  Which,  since  its  introduc- 
tion into  England,  has  been  called  Saffron-Walden,  because 
formerly  cultivated  chiefly  near  or  about  the  town  of  Walden. 

It  is  mentioned  in  Solomon's  Song,  iv.  14. 

Fabulous  history  derives  the  name  Crocus,  from  a  youth 
of  that  name,  who  was  consumed  by  the  ardour  of  his  love 
for  the  nymph  Smilax,  and,  afterwards,  changed  into  the 
flower  bearing  his  name. 

Crocus,  and  Smilax,*  may  be  turn'd  to  flow'rs, 
And  the  Curetesf  spring  from  bounteous  show'rs, 
I  pass  a  hundred  legends,  stale  as  these, 
And,  with  sweet  novelty,  your  taste  will  please. 

Eusdcn's  Ovid. 

The  Crocus  is  one  of  the  earliest  spring  flowers. 
There  is,  also,  an  autumnal  variety.     The  colours  of  the 
flowers  are  purple,  yellow,  white,  &tc. 

Fair  handed  Spring  unbosoms  every  grace, 
Throws  out  the  Snow  drop,  and  the  Crocus  first. 

Thomson. 

The  general  character  of  Crocus  is  a  spathe  transparent- 
ly membranous,  one  or  two-leaved.  Corolla  monopetalous, 
funnel-shaped;  tube  very  long,  six-parted,  superior;  border 
with  six  ovate  oblong,  nearly  equal  divisions. 

CROWN  IMPERIAL. 

Fritillaria  Imperialis. 

Fritillaria,  from  fritillus,  which  some  take  for  a  chess- 
board, and  which,  in  that  sense,  alludes  to  the  chequered  na- 
ture of  the  petals. 

Fritillus,  however,  is  used  by  Juvenal  and  Persius  for  a 
dice-box,  and  is  supposed  to  have  expressed  the  rattling  sound 
of  the  dice. 

Fritillus — A  dice-box  to  throw  dice  out  of. 

Jlinsworth. 

The  common  Fritillaria,  or  chequered  lily,  F.  JWelea- 
gris,  is  regularly  chequered  with  purple,  or  with  different 
whites. 


Note*  Smilax  was  also  changed  into  a  plant  of  the  same  name,  said 
by  the  ancients  to  be  the  Ytw  Tree — she  having  pined  away  for  the  love 
of  Crocus. — Modern  botanists  give  Smilax  as  the  generic  name  of  a  fa- 
mily of  plants,  in  which  the  Medicinal  Sarsaparilla,  or  Smilax  Sarsa- 
parilla,  is  included. 

f  Curetes,  a  people  of  Crete,  who,  according  to  Ovid,  were  produced 
from  rain.  They  -were  also  called  Corybantes — and  were  entrusted  with 
the  education  of  Jupiter — and,  afterwards,  made  priests  and  favourite 
ministers  of  Rhea,  or  Cybele. 


The  Fritillaria  is  a  native  of  Persia,  and  was,  for  some 
time,  called  in  Europe  Lilium  Persicum,  but,  as  there  was 
already  another  Persian  lily  growing  in  the  European  gar- 
dens, it  was  changed  to  Corona  Imperialis,  or  Crown  Im- 
perial, by  Alphonsus  Paucius,  Physician  to  the  Duke  of  Flo- 
rence. This  title  appears  to  have  been  adopted  in  all  the 
European  languages. 

Modern  botanists  have  since  bestowed  the  name  of  Fritil- 
laria on  a  family  of  plants,  of  which  this  is,  from  its  noble  de- 
portment and  brilliancy  of  colouring,  considered  the  sovereign. 

"  The  Lily's  height  bespoke  command, 

A  fair  imperial  flower; 
She  seem'd  design'd  for  Flora's  hand. 

The  sceptre  of  her  power." 

The  F.  Imperialis  has  a  large  scaly  bulb  root — Herb  of 
very  quick  growth,  fetid,  two  or  three  feet  high,  succulent 
or  juicy,  of  a  fine  shining  green,  consisting  of  a  thick,  simple, 
straight,  leafy  stem.  Leaves  scattered,  linear-oblong,  twisted. 
Flowers  a  circle  of  tulip-shaped  corollas  turned  downwards, 
which  have  the  appearance  of  so  many  gay  bells,  the  stigma 
answering  for  the  clapper;  the  whole  being  crowned  by  a 
coma,  or  tuft  of  green  leaves,  gives  it  a  singular  and  agree- 
able effect.  The  colours  most  admired  are  the  orange, 
lemon,  and  brilliant  red. — There  is  a  variety  with  variegated 
leaves,  and  one  with  a  red  stem. 

But  to  breathe  fragrance  on  the  morn, 
Proud  gorgeous  flower,  was  never  thine. 

Fables  of  Flora. 

Then  heed  ye  not  the  dazzling  gem 
That  gleams  in  Fritillaria's  diadem.  Evans. 

COMMON    CYPRESS. 
Cupressus  sempervirens. 

Cupressus,  from  two  Greek  words,  xua,  to  produce,  and 
T*£i<ro;  equal,  alluding  to  the  regularity  of  its  branches. 

Cypress,  E. — L.  cupressus,  from  the  Greek  xujr«(;i<nro;. 

Or,  according  to  Ovid,  from  Cyparissus,  a  Youth  be- 
loved by  Apollo,  who,  in  grief  at  having  inadvertently  killed 
the  favourite  stag  of  his  friend,  requested  of  the  Gods,  that 
his  mourning  might  be  made  perpetual,  and  was  by  Apollo 
changed  into  a  Cypress  Tree,  the  branches  of  which  were 
always  used  at  funerals. 

Himself  he  would  have  slain  thro'  desp'rate  grief: 
What  said  not  Phoebus,  that  might  yield  relief ! 
To  cease  his  mourning,  he,  the  boy  desir'd, 
Or  mourn  no  more  than  such  a  loss  requir'd. 
But  he,  incessant  griev'd :  at  length  address'd 
To  the  superior  pow'rs  a  last  request; 
Praying,  in  expiation  of  his  crime, 
Thenceforth  to  mourn  to  all  succeeding  time. 

*  *  #  # 

Apollo  sad  look'd  on,  and,  sighing,  cry'd 
Then,  be  for  ever,  what  thy  pray'r  imply'd; 
Bemoan'd  by  me,  in  others  grief  excite ; 
And  still  preside  at  ev'ry  fun'ral  rite. 

Congreve's  Ovid. 


Amid  the  throng  of  this  promiscuous  wood, 
With  pointed  top,  the  taper  Cypress  stood; 
A  tree,  which  once  a  Youth,  and  heav'nly  fair, 
Was  of  that  deity  the  darling  care, 
Whose  hand  adapts,  with  equal  skill,  the  strings 
To  bows  with  which  he  kills,  and  harps  to  which  he 
sings.  Congreve's  Ovid. 

"  The  Cypress  is  the  emblem  of  mourning."         Shaks. 


The  Cypress,  that  darkly  shades  the  grave, 
Is  sorrow  that  mourns  its  bitter  lot. 


Percival. 


On  account  of  the  gloomy  hue  of  its  leaves,  especially  in 
winter,  it  was  esteemed  by  the  ancients  a  suitable  ornament 
of  their  burial  places.  —  It  was  held  sacred  to  Pluto  and 
Proserpine. 

The  common  European  Cypress,  C.  sempervirens,  has 
two  varieties,  the  pyramidal,  and  spreading,  or  horizontal. 
It  is  said  to  be  a  long-lived  tree.  —  According  to  an  assertion 
of  Pliny's,  there  were,  in  his  time,  cypress  trees  growing  at 
Rome,  which  were  more  ancient  than  the  city  itself.  —  We 
are  told,  that  the  gates  of  St.  Paul's  church  at  Rome,  made  of 
cypress-wood,  had  lasted  from  the  time  of  Constantine,  1100 
years,  as  fresh  as  new,  when  Pope  Eugenius  IV,  ordered 
gates  of  brass  in  their  stead.  Many  of  the  chests  which  en- 
closed the  Egyptian  mummies,  are  made  of  Cypress,  afford- 
ing a  decisive  proof  of  its  almost  incorruptible  nature.  The 
wood  is  capable  of  a  fine  polish,  and,  being  fragrant,  it  is  es- 
teemed for  some  species  of  light  cabinet  work.  —  Its  little 
branches  are  quadrangular.  Leaves  imbricated  in  four  rows, 
obtuse,  depressed,  convex;  strobiles  globular;  scales  a  wnless. 

The  American  species  of  this  genus  in  most  estimation 
is  the  C.  Disticha,  Deciduous  Cypress—  sometimes  called 
Bald  Cypress.  It  is  one  of  the  largest  trees  in  North 
America,  being  found,  sometimes,  seventy  feet  high,  thirty 
feet  in  circumference  at  the  surface  of  the  ground,  and  twenty- 
six,  at  the  height  of  six  feet.  Its  branches  extend  almost 
horizontally.  Leaves  acute,  in  two  rows,  and  very  near  to- 
gether on  the  little  branches,  whence  they  have  been  com- 
pared to  the  leaves  of  Acacia.  Cones  larger,  with  stronger 
scales  than  those  of  the  common  Cypress.  Its  wood  is  light, 
fine  grained,  and,  after  being  exposed  to  the  light,  of  a  reddish 
colour,  and  very  durable,  Delaware,  may  be  assumed  as  its 
northern  boundary.  East  Florida  abounds  in  it.  Cypress 
shingles  are  in  great  estimation,  and  are  said  to  last  forty 
years. 

DAFFODIL. 
Great  Yellow  Daffodil. 

Narcissus  Major. 

(For  Narcissus,  see  note  on  that  flower.) 
Daffodil  —  supposed,  by  Skinner,  to  be  corrupted  from 
Jlsphodelus.    And  Jlsphodelus  is  defined  by  Ainsworth,  to 
be  the  Daffodil  of  two  sorts,  white  and  yellow. 

The  Flora  Historica  tells  us  that  "  this  flower  was 
evidently  considered  a  kind  of  Lily  by  early  writers,  and  wo 
are  of  opinion  that  the  name  is  a  corruption  of  Dis's  Lily,  as 


it  is  supposed  to  be  the  flower  dropped  from  the  chariot  of 
that  god  in  his  flight  with  Proserpine." 

Shakspeare,  in  his  Winter's  Tale,  alludes  to  this  story, 
as  well  as  to  the  early  season  in  which  the  Daffodil  appears. 

"  O  Proserpina 

For  the  flowers  now,  that  frighten'd,  thou  let'st  fall 
From  Dis's  wagon;  Daffodils, 
That  come  before  the  swallow  dares,  and  take 
The  winds  of  March  with  beauty." 

Drayton,  in  his  Pastorals,  makes  Daffodillies  and  Li- 
lies the  same: — 

See  that  there  be  stores  of  lilies, 
(Called  by  shepherds,  daffodillies.) 

The  Daffodil,  and  Jonquil,  are  varieties  of  the  JVarcis- 
sus,  though  the  names  are  often  used  indiscriminately. 

Narcissus  Major,  is  a  native  of  Spain.  Common,  with 
double  flowers  in  gardens — rarely  seen  single.  It  is  the 
largest  of  the  genus,  and  has  the  most  magnificent  flowers, 
bearing  its  fine  golden  chalice,  amidst  petals  of  the  same 
colour,  on  a  stalk  two  feet  high.  Cup  of  the  nectary  bell- 
shaped,  erect,  the  length  of  the  oblong  oblique  petals;  its 
margin  spreading,  lobed,  (divided)  and  crisped.  Leaves, 
twisted,  somewhat  glaucous. 

DAHLIA. 

Dahlia. 

Dahlia,  named  by  the  late  Professor  Cavanilles,  in  ho- 
nour of  Andrew  Dahl,  a  Swedish  botanist,  author  of  a  little 
volume  of  botanical  observations. 

There  are  several  species  of  Dahlia,  all  natives  of  moun- 
tainous parts  of  the  Spanish  settlements  in  South  America. 
Their  flowers  are  large  and  handsome,  something  like  those 
of  a  Sun-flower,  but  the  rays  mostly  red,  or  purple,  like  the 
China-Aster,  and  likewise  variable  in  this  respect.  The 
herbage  is  coarse  and  rank,  with  compound  leaves. 

It  is  an  autumnal  flower;  first  introduced  into  England 
by  Lady  Bute,  who  procured  it  from  Madrid  in  the  same  year 
that  it  had  arrived  from  America — but  lost  sight  of  till  re- 
introduced  by  Lady  Holland,  in  the  year  1804.  The  first 
introduction  marked  the  year  when  France  became  revolu- 
tionized, the  second,  that  which  saw  Napoleon  made  Em- 
peror of  the  French  nation. 

By  cultivation  these  flowers  have  had  their  petals  dou- 
bled and  quadrupled,  until  they  have  become  as  full  as  the 
China-Aster,  whilst  their  colours  have  been  even  more  in- 
creased than  their  petals. 

Gen.  cha.  a  double  Calyx;  the  outer  of  many  leaves. 
Corolla,  radiant,  compound,  its  rays  equal  in  number  to  the 
segments  of  the  calyx;  ovate,  three-toothed;  receptacle  chaf- 
fy; stigmas  downy. 

DAISY. 
Bellis. 

Sellis,  Latin— formed  from  lellus,  pretty  or  handsome. 
English,  Daisy.  R,  E. 


Fabulous  history  informs  us  that  it  owes  its  origin  to 
Belides,  grand  daughter  to  Danaus,  one  of  the  nymphs 
called  Dryads,  that  presided  over  the  meadows  and  pastures, 
in  ancient  times. 

Belides,  whilst  dancing  on  the  grass  with  Ephigeus,  (a 
rural  Deity,  whose  suit  she  encouraged,)  attracted  the  admi- 
ration of  Vertumnus,  (the  Deity  who  presided  over  the 
spring  and  orchards,)  and  to  escape  from  him  she  was  trans- 
formed into  the  humble  plant  bearing  her  name. 

Chaucer  affirms  that  the  fair  queen  Jllceste,  (wife  of  Ad- 
metus,  king  of  Pherae,  in  Thessaly,)  who  sacrificed  her  own 
life  to  preserve  that  of  her  husband,  was,  for  this  admirable 
proof  of  unbounded  affection,  transformed  into  this  beautiful 
flower,  the  Daisy. 

The  English  name  of  Daisy  is  derived  from  a  Saxon 
word,  meaning  Day's  eye,  in  which  way  it  is  written  by  Ben 
Johnson.  And  Chaucer  calls  it  the  "  ee  of  the  dale ."  No 
doubt  from  the  habit  of  the  flower  of  closing  its  petals  at 
night;  which  it  also  does  in  rainy  weather. 

Star  of  the  mead !  sweet  daughter  of  the  day, 
Whose  opening  flower  invites  the  morning  ray. 
From  thy  moist  cheek  and  bosom's  chilly  fold, 
To  kiss  the  tears  of  eve,  the  dew-drops  cold. 

Sweet  Daisy.  Leyden. 

When  smitten  by  the  morning  ray, 
I  see  thee  rise  alert  and  gay, 
Then  cheerful  flower!  my  spirits  play 
With  kindred  gladness: 

And,  when  at  dark,  by  dews  opprest, 
Thou  sink'st,  the  image  of  thy  rest 
Hath  often  eased  my  pensive  breast 
Of  careful  sadness.  Wordsworth. 

The  little  daizie,  that  at  evening  closes.  Spencer. 

O'er  waste  and  woodland,  rock  and  plain, 

Its  humble  buds  unheeded  rise; 
The  rose,  has  but  a  summer  reign, 

The  daisy,  never  dies.  James  Montgomery. 

The  gen.  cha.  of  the  Daisy,  is,  a  common  calyx;  Co- 
rolla, compound  radiate;  corollules,  tubular,  numerous  in  the 
disk. 

DANDELION. 
Leontodon  taraxacum. 

Leontodon,  L.,  derived  from  the  Greek  J.SMV,  XESVTO;,  a 
lion,  and  e  J:u,-,  a  tooth,  and  so  called  from  a  similarity  in  the 
shape  of  its  jagged  leaves  to  the  teeth  of  a  lion. 

The  English  name  Dandelion,  which  is  a  corruption  of 
dent  de  Lion,  is  expressive  of  the  same  idea,  and  might,  pos- 
sibly, have  given  rise  to  its  botanical  name. 

£f-  The  specific  name,  Taraxacum,  or  Taraxacon,  is 
a  name  used  by  the  Arabians,  supposed  by  Ambrosini  to  have 
been  derived  from  the  Greek  Tea>j«A«f,  eatable,  because  the 
plant  to  which  it  was  applied  (our  Dandelion,  or  something 


nearly  akin  to  it)  was  used  for  food.  De  Theis  derives  it 
from  the  Greek  T*?a<r<ra.,  to  move,  or  trouble. 

Leontodon  taraxacum,  or  common  Dandelion,  is  escu- 
lent— its  leaves,  when  blanched,  have  the  taste  of  endive, 
and,  boiled,  in  their  green  state,  is  an  excellent  and  whole- 
some vegetable.  At  Gottingen,  the  roots  are  roasted,  and 
substituted  for  coffee. 

The  leaves,  roots,  flowers,  and  juice  of  dandelion,  have 
all  been  employed  for  medicinal  purposes. 

It  is  one  of  the  plants  that  may  be  most  certainly  de- 
pended on  as  to  the  hour  of  opening  and  closing  its  flowers. 
Flora's  best  time-piece.  The  flowers  of  this  habit  are  styled 
by  Linnaeus  the  Horologne,  or  watch  of  Flora. 

"  Leontodons  unfold, 

On  the  swarth  turf,  their  ray -encircled  gold; 
With  Sol's  expanding  beam  the  flowers  unclose. 
And  rising  Hesper  lights  them  to  repose." 

She,  enamoured  of  the  sun, 
At  his  departure  hangs  her  head  and  weeps, 
And  shrouds  her  sweetness  up,  and  keeps 

Sad  vigils  like  a  cloistered  nun, 

'Till  his  reviving  ray  appears, 
Waking  her  beauty,  as  he  dries  her  tears.  Moore. 

Thus  in  each  flower  and  simple  bell, 

That  in  our  path  betrodden  lie, 
Are  sweet  remembrancers,  who  tell 

How  fast  their  winged  moments  fly. 

Charlotte  Smith. 

The  dandelion  blooms  early  in  the  spring,  and  continues 
throughout  the  summer. 

"  Nor  yet  alone  to  full-robed  spring  confined, 
Around  her  brow  the  crown  of  flame  they  bind, 
But  scattered  still  o'er  summer's  tawny  vest, 
Their  lingering  sweets  regale  the  insect  guest." 

The  Dandelion,  has  terminal,  golden-coloured  flowers. 
A  double  calyx,  imbricated,  oblong.  Corolla,  compound, 
imbricated,  uniform;  florets  numerous,  equal,  each  of  one 
petal,  with  five  teeth.  Receptacle  naked,  dotted.  Down 
stalked,  hairy.  Leaves  radical,  toothed,  smooth. 

DEW  PLANT. 

Mezembryanthemum. 
(See  Ice  Plant.) 

There  are  more  than  fifty  Fig  Marygolds,  or  Mezem- 
bryanthemums,  cultivated.  Some  of  them  have  less  of  the 
frosted  appearance  noticed  in  the  Ice  plant — and  are  called 
Dew  plants — appearing  moist,  and  cool,  as  if  wet  with  dew. 

The  JVf.  Barbatus,  Trailing  Bearded  Fig  Marygold,  is 
one  of  those  most  common  in  green-houses,  and  even  in  the 
garret  window  of  many  an  humble  collector.  It  throws  out 
its  trailing  stems  over  the  flower-pot,  bearing  a  very  small 
bright  reddish  purple  Jlower.  Leaves  remote,  somewhat 
ovate,  tumid,  flattish  above.  Branches  smooth,  slender, 


straggling.  Calyx,  five  cleft.  Petals  numerous,  linear,  co- 
hering at  the  base. 

The  JVf.  Hispidum,  is  another  of  the  Dew  plants. — 
Leaves  cylindrical,  blunt.  Branches  hairy.  Flowers  larger 
than  the  last,  and  of  the  same  colour. 

It  will  be  observed  that  no  particular  species  has  been 
designated,  thereby  giving  a  wider  field  for  selection,  when 
the  plant  is  to  be  used. 

DOGWOOD. 
Cornus. 

Cornus,  from  the  Greek  x?»v£ia,  so  called  from  the 
horny  toughness  of  the  wood. 

Ainsworth  defines  Cornus,  1.  The  cornel  tree,  called 
the  dog-tree,  or  wild  cherry. 

Johnson — Dogwood,  a  species  of  cornelian  cherry. 

There  are  several  varieties  indigenous  in  North  Ameri- 
ca. That  designated  as  belonging  to  Virginia —  C.  florida,  or 
Virginia  Dogwood,  grows  to  the  height  of  from  ten  to  twenty 
feet.  Leaves  opposite,  egg-shaped,  acuminate,  green  above, 
glaucous  beneath,  petioled.  Flowers  small,  yellow;  leaves  of 
the  involucre  two  inches  broad  or  more,  greenish  white,  some- 
times rose-coloured,  resembling  petals,  a  little  tomentous, 
ending  in  a  short  point,  and  appearing  as  if  nipped  almost 
double  near  the  tip,  which  makes  them  seem  emarginate  and 
heart-shaped;  peduncles  one-flowered,  forming  close  lateral 
and  terminal  umbels. 

EGLANTINE,  English.— EGLANTERIA,  Latin. 
European  Sweet-Briar. 

Rosa  rubiginosa. 
(For  Rosa,  see  Austrian  Rose.) 

"  Eglanteria,  corrupted  from  the  French  Eglentier,  or 
Eglantier,  of  whose  derivation  we  are  ignorant. 

Lamarck's  Flora  Fran$oise,  has  been  examined  in  vain, 
for  the  derivation,  or  meaning  of  the  word  Eglantier.  And 
we  perceive  that  he  has  taken  the  orange  coloured  variety  of 
Rosa  lutea,  or  Austrian  Rose,  for  Linnxus'  rubiginosa,  or 
European  Sweet  Briar. 

We  retain  the  name  of  Rosa  rubiginosa  for  our  Euro- 
pean Sweet  Briar,  as  being  indisputably  certain,  peculiarly 
expressive,  and  now  sanctioned  by  Jacquin,  Roth,  Willde- 
now,  indeed,  by  general  use."  Rees'  Enc. 

Skinner,  who  has  just  been  examined,  offers  the  follow- 
ing etymology:  "Eglantine,  Belgic  Eghelentier,  Franco. 
Gallic,  Esglantier,  Jliglantier,  Jlnglantine,  Cynosbatus,  [the 
eglantine]  the  wild  rose.  J\linshei*$  I  know  not  how  well, 
derives  it  from  the  Latin  and  Greek,  Echinus,  (an  urchin, 
or  hedge-hog:  a  sea-urchin,  being  a  kind  of  crab-fish,  with 
prickles  instead  of  feet:  also  the  rough  prickly  shells  of  ches- 
nuts)  because  it  is  thorny.  I  prefer,  rather,  to  derive  it  from 
the  Latin  *1cidcus,  (a  prickle,  as  in  thorns,  herbs,  burs,  hedge- 
hogs, &c.)  as  it  were,  Jlculeantinus  (prickly)  for  it  is  defend- 
ed by  many  thorns.  It  may  also  be  speciously  derived  from 
the  Belgic  Eghel,  a  hedge-hog;  but  it  returns  to  the  same 
point,  for  this  undoubtedly  takes  its  rise  from  the  Latin,  JLcu- 
leus  (a  prickle,  8tc.)  and  this  animal  is,  in  truth,  furnished  by 
nature  with  prickles." 

Lemon,  after  quoting,  in  part,  this  etymology  of  Skin- 


-4. 


-*> 


ner,  adds,  "  So  near  was  the  Doctor  to  the  true  origin  of  this 
word  that  he  would  not  see  it;  for  aculcus  is,  undoubtedly, 
derived  from  (the  Greek  word)  ax*,  or  £X>(,  (in  Latin,)  acies 
(the  sharp  edge,  or  point  of  any  thing,)  whence  a  cus  (a  nee- 
dle,) acutus  (sharp)  aculeus  (a  prickle)  sharp  pointed,  like  a 
needle:  the  Sweet  Briar,  therefore,  seems  to  have  received  its 
name  of  Eglantine,  from,  the  sharpness  of  its  thorns." 

Rubiginosa,  one  of  its  meanings  is  florid. 

The  common  Sweet  Briar  Rose,  or  Eglantine,  has  flow- 
ers of  a  sweet  scent,  and  a  full  and  uniform  pink  colour:  oc- 
casionally double,  and  sometimes  pale,  or  whitish.  The  stem 
branched,  about  a  yard  high,  with  copious,  broad,  strongly 
hooked  prickles,  of  a  pale  brown,  all  over  its  green  branches. 
Leaflets  five  or  seven,  of  a  roundish,  elliptical  figure,  with 
strong,  double,  glandular  serratures;  their  upper  surface 
bright  green,  slightly  hairy;  the  under,  clothed  with  reddish 
viscid  glands,  and  delightfully  fragrant.  Fruit,  scarlet,  inter- 
nally mealy  and  insipid. 

There  is  a  small-flowered  Sweet  Briar,  R.  Micrantha, 
with  paler  flowers,  and  smaller,  the  least  of  all  the  British 
Roses,  that  is  sometimes  mistaken  for  the  JR.  Rubiginosa. 

Poetry  is  full  of  the  fragrance  of  the  Eglantine. 

Come,  gentle  air, 

And  with  the  jasmine's  breath  divine, 

Convey  the  woodbine's  rich  perfume, 

Nor  spare  the  sweet-leafed  eglantine.  Smith. 

No,  nor  the  leaf  of  Eglantine,  whom  not  to  slander, 
Out-sweeten'd  not  thy  breath.  Shaks. 

And  the  fresh  eglantine  exhaled  a  breath, 
Whose  odours  were  of  power  to  raise  from  death. 

Dryden's  Chaucer. 

ELDER. 

Sambucus  nigra. 

Sambucus,  L.  from  the  Greek  <r»/j/3ox»,  an  instrument  of 
music,  in  the  construction  of  which,  this  tree  is  used,  on  ac- 
count of  its  hardness;  so  says  De  Theis. 

(See  Rees'  Encyclopedia .) 

Elder,  E.,  German  holder,  or  hohlunder.  It  seems  to 
be  named  from  hollowness.  Webster. 

The  common  Elder,  S.  Nigra,  is  a  low  bushy  tree  or 
shrub,  with  smooth  pithy  branches.  Leaves  opposite,  une- 
qual, pinnate;  leaflets  generally  five,  smooth.  Stipules, 
scarcely  any.  Cymes,  terminal,  in  five  principal  branches, 
many  flowered.  Flowers,  milk-white,  fragrant,  generally 
stalked.  Stamens  divaricated.  Berries  globular ,  dark  pur- 
ple, sweetish,  but  unpleasant  in  the  crude  state.  This  tree 
is,  as  it  were,  a  whole  magazine  of  physic  to  rustic  practition- 
ers. The  inner  bark,  flowers,  leaves,  berries,  all  have  their 
peculiar  medicinal  virtues. 

The  Sambucus  niger,  very  abundant  in  the  United 
States. 

EVERLASTING. 

Gnaphalium. 

Gnaphalium,  L.  from  the  Greek  yva$«;uov,  an  ancient 
Greek  name;  from  yvap^ov,  soft  down  or  wool,  alluding  to 
the  wooliness  of  the  herbage. 


The  Latins  called  it  Gnaphalium,  from  the  downy  or 
cottony  nature  of  the  leaves  or  stalks,  which  they  collected 
to  fill  their  couches  and  matresses,  instead  of  wool  or  flocks. 
Pliny  tells  us  that  it  was  also  called  Chamcezelon,  which  sig- 
nifies low  or  ground  cotton;  and  it  was  sometimes  named  JLl- 
binum,  from  the  whiteness  of  the  leaves  and  stalks. 

The  American  Everlasting,  or  Eternal  Flower,  G.  mar- 
garitaceum,  has  white  flowers.  It  also  grows  wild,  in  Wales, 
and  is  there  used  to  adorn  the  graves  of  the  departed ;  elegant- 
ly alluding  to  immortality,  by  the  unfading  nature  of  its  flow- 
ers, and  to  spotless  purity  by  their  snowy  whiteness. 

The  Everlasting  flower  which  the  French  call  Immor- 
telle, the  G.  orientate — is  in  such  demand  in  Paris,  ever  since 
the  hill  of  Pere  la  Chaise  has  been  converted  into  a  ceme- 
tery, for  that  city,  as  not  only  to  give  employment  to  many 
hands  in  its  cultivation,  but  numerous  families  are  regularly 
occupied,  and  entirely  supported  by  forming  these  flowers 
into  garlands  and  crosses,  which  are  offered  for  sale  near  the 
entrance  of  burial  grounds. 

It  is  stated  to  be  a  native  of  Africa,  therefore  improperly 
called  G.  orientate.  Gerard  styles  it  Golden  Mother  Wort, 
or  cud-weed.  And  he  describes  the  flowers  as  standing  "on 
the  top  of  the  stalkes  ioined  togither  in  tuftes  of  a  yellow 
colour,  glittering  like  gold,  in  forme  resembling  the  scalie 
flowers  of  Tansie." 

The  ancients  crowned  the  images  of  their  gods  with  gar- 
lands made  of  these  flowers,  and,  hence,  they  were  frequently 
called  God's  flowers.  In  Spain,  and  Portugal,  they  are  still 
used  to  decorate  the  altars,  and  images  of  saints. 

As  an  ornament  for  the  saloon,  or  head  dress,  the  G. 
orientate  is,  in  modern  times,  frequently  dyed  of  various 
colours. 

The  general  character  of  the  flowers-  of  this  genus,  is, 
a  common  Calyx,  imbricated,  its  inner  scales  rounded,  sca- 
riose,  coloured.  Corolla  compound;  florets  of  the  disk,  fun- 
nel-shaped, in  five  equal  reflexed  marginal  segments.  Re- 
ceptacle, naked. 

FEVER  ROOT. 
Eupatorium. 

Eupatorium,  from  Mithridates,  surnamed  Eupator, 
who  is  reported  to  have  brought  this  plant  into  use,  as  a 
counter  poison.  He  was  the  seventh  king  of  that  name  who 
reigned  over  the  province  of  Pontus  in  Asia  Minor.  His  am- 
bition and  cruelty  raised  up  many  enemies;  and  his  habit 
was,  by  drinking  antidotes  against  poison,  to  fortify  his  con- 
stitution against  their  attempts  to  destroy  him. 

Eupatorium,  is  a  large  genus  chiefly,  though  not  entire- 
ly, American.  Roots  perennial.  Stems  sometimes  shrubby. 
Leaves  opposite,  mostly  simple,  and  strongly  serrated.  Flow- 
ers corymbose,  terminal,  numerous,  white,  bluish,  or  reddish. 
Whole  plant,  roughish,  bitter,  or  aromatic. 

Several  of  the  American  species  are  esteemed,  on  ac- 
count of  their  aromatic  and  bitter  qualities.  Among  these  are 
E.  Sessitifolium,  E.  Perfoliatum,  and  E.  Jlromaticum. 

BALM  OF  GILEAD  FIR. 

Pinus  Balsamea. 
(For  Pinus,  see  Pine.) 
Pinus  balsamea,  is  a  native  of  Canada,  Nova  Scotia, 


.*.- 


New  England,  and  the  Alleghany  Mountains,  in  high  cold 
situations.  Leaves  solitary,  flat,  imperfectly  two-ranked. 
Cones  cylindrical,  erect,  with  short  pointed  scales,  when  full 
grown,  of  a  beautiful  violet  hue,  and  exuding  a  plenty  of  can- 
died turpentine,  or  balsam,  as  does  the  trunk  when  wounded 
Its  fragrant  exudation  is  the  well  known  Canada  balsam, 
which  some  quacks  celebrate  as  Balm  of  Gilead. 

The  stamens  and  pistils  of  all  cone-bearing  plants  are  in 
separate  flowers,  either  on  the  same,  or  on  different  plants; 
they  produce  resins,  and  many  of  them  are  supposed  to  supply 
the  most  durable  timber,  as  the  Cypress  and  Cedar. 

Venice-Turpentine  is  obtained  from  the  larch.  San- 
darach  from  the  common  Juniper;  and  Incense  from  a  ju- 
niper with  yellow  fruit. 

[See  Darwin's  Notes  to  Loves  of  the  Plants.] 

FOX  GLOVE. 
Digitalis. 

Digitalis,  from  Digitale,  the  finger  of  a  glove.  The  name 
given  first  by  Fuchsius,  and  hence  the  plant  is  called  Digita- 
lis Fuchsii. 

The  D.  purpurea,  or  Purple  British  Fox-glove,  is  the 
species  best  known.  It  grows  in  various  parts  of  Europe. 
The  Root  is  biennial.  Stem  erect,  about  three  or  four  feet 
high.  Leaves  large,  ovate,  crenate,  downy.  Flowers  nu- 
merous, in  a  long  simple  spike,  large,  crimson,  sometimes 
white,  elegantly  sprinkled  with  eye-like  spots  within.  It  is  a 
dangerous  plant,  from  its  strongly  narcotic  power — yet  a 
valuable  medicine  in  careful  hands. 

The  Fox-glove  on  fair  Flora's  hand  is  worn, 

Lest  while  she  gathers  flowers  she  meet  a  thorn. 

Cowley. 
FUCHSIA. 

Fuchsia,  so  named  by  Plumier,  in  honour  of  Leonard 
Fuchsius,  a  distinguished  German  Physician  and  Botanist, 
particularly  celebrated  for  his  figures  of  plates.  Born,  at 
Wembding  in  Bavaria,  in  1501. 

The  species  chiefly  cultivated,  are  the  F.  Coccinea,  a 
native  of  Chili,  S.  A.  It  is  a  shrub  of  from  three  to  six  feet 
high,  smooth  in  all  its  parts,  and  much  branched.  Leaves, 
two  or  three,  rarely  four,  together;  an  inch  or  more  in  length, 
rather  distantly  toothed;  pale  and  shining  beneath.  Calyx 
scarlet.  Petals  violet,  obovate,  and  blunt.  Stamens,  and 
style  scarlet,  hanging  far  out  of  the  flower.  Berries  dark 
purple.  The  young  branches  and  leaves  have  the  veins 
tinged  with  a  fine  crimson  colour.  Although  a  gree"'  '-house 
plant,  it  will  bear  the  open  garden  in  a  well  sheltered  si- 
tuation. 

The  F.  Triphylla,  or  three-leaved  Fuchsia,  is  a  native 
of  the  West  Indies:  an  herbaceous  plant  of  more  diminutive 
growth.  Leaves  three  together  in  a  whorl.  The  Calyx 
about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  scarlet,  as  well  as  the  petals. 
Berries  almost  globular,  and  rather  larger  than  a  common 
black  Currant. 

GERANIUM. 
Pelargonium. 

Pelargonium,  L.  from  the  Greek  n-sx^yo;,  a  stork,  in 
allusion  to  the  beak  of  the  fruit,  resembling  the  bill  of  that 


bird,  as  well  as  to  preserve  an  analogy  with  the  Geranium, 
or  Crane's  Bill;  the  Greek  word  r^xvoj,  signifying  a  Crane. 

Pelargonium,  embraces  what  are  commonly  known  by 
the  appellation  of  Jlfrican  Geraniums,  and  which,  doubt- 
less, constitute  a  genus  clearly  distinguished  from  the  Eu- 
ropean and  American  Geranium,  by  the  irregularity  of  the 
flower,  and  its  tubular  nectary,  to  say  nothing  of  the  number 
of  stamens. 

It  is  the  African  Geranium,  that  is  most  generally  cul- 
tivated in  our  green-houses,  for  the  beauty  of  its  flowers, 
and  fragrance  of  its  foliage. 

The  Crane's  Bill  Geranium,  is  of  the  same  Class  and 
Order  as  Pelargonium,  except  that  it  has  10  stamens,  De- 
candria,  instead  of  7,  Heptandria. 

The  only  Crane's  Bill  Geranium,  introduced  into  this 
collection,  is  the  Geranium  Maculatum,  or  Spotted  Crane's 
Bill. — An  American  plant  of  such  highly  medicinal  virtues, 
as  to  recommend  it  to  our  attention,  and  which  ought  to  be 
in  every  garden,  being  esteemed  the  best  known  styptic  in 
the  whole  JYIateria  JWedica;  having  produced  wonderful 
cures  when  applied  to  wounded  or  ruptured  blood-vessels. 
It  has  not  much  beauty  to  recommend  it,  yet  its  retiring 
and  modest  worth,  so  generally  overlooked  in  the  gay  sa- 
loon, may  well  be  supposed  to  excite  something  like  envy  of 
its  more  favoured  rivals. 

The  G.  JVLaculatum  may  be  found  abundantly  in  our 
meadows  and  woods.  The  one  with  purple  flowers,  has 
downy  leaves,  with  five  lobes  or  scollops,  and  these  divided 
into  small  indentures.  The  leaves  of  the  blue,  are  wrinkled 
and  divided  deeply  into  many  parts  or  fingers.  The  stalks 
supporting  the  delicate  blue  flowers,  are  long  and  slender, 
from  six  inches  to  a  foot  high.  They,  both,  have  a  flower 
with  a  single  cup,  or  Calyx,  of  five  leaves.  Corolla  of  five 
petals ;  ten  stamens  alternately  longer  and  shorter;  one  pointal, 
terminated  by  five  stigmas.  Fruit,  five  dry  berries  furnished 
with  a  bill,  each,  containing  a  single  seed,  crowned  with  a 
tail  or  awn,  which  rolls  up  in  a  spiral  form,  when  the  seed 
becomes  ripe.  The  root,  which  is  the  part  used  medicinally, 
is  generally  crooked  and  knotty,  blackish  or  reddish  on  the 
outside,  with  a  roughish  taste,  and  aromatic  flavour. 

Hemlock-leaved,  and  Musk  Crane's  BUI,  of  this  ge- 
nus, have  but  five  stamens. 

The  general  character  of  the  Pelargonium,  is  a  Peri- 
anth,  inferior,  in  five  deep,  oblong,  permanent  segments,  the 
uppermost  elongated  at  the  base  into  a  nectariferous  tube, 
running  down  the  flower-stalk.  Petals  five,  irregular,  ob- 
long, spreading,  longer  than  the  calyx.  Filaments  ten,  un- 
equal, three  of  them,  rarely  five,  abortive.  Fruit  beaked,  of 
five  aggregate  capsules,  each  tipped  with  a  long  spiral  awn, 
bearded  on  the  inside.  The  foliage  of  the  different  species 
is  too  varied  and  multifarious  for  description,  and  too  well 
known  to  require  it.  We  will  therefore  take  our  leave  of 


Genteel  Geranium, 
With  a  leaf  for  all  that  come. 


Hunt. 


GILLY  FLOWER. 
Cheiranthus.   Incanus. 
Cheiranthus,  from  the  Arabic  fceirt,  altered  by  Linnaeus 


into  a  name  with  a  Greek  form,  from  the  Greek  %i,(,  a  hand, 
and  KV^OS,  a  flower. 

Incanus,  from  the  hoary  white  of  its  branches. 

Gilly-Flower,  either  corrupted  from  July-flower,  or 
from  the  French  giroflee.  (See  Johnson.) 

In  July  come  gilly-flowers  of  all  varieties.  Bacon. 

The  Gilly-Flower  is  a  native  of  the  sea  coast  in  France 
and  Spain.  Cultivation  has  produced  numerous  varieties; 
the  principal  ones  are  Queen's  stock  gilly-flower,  with  bright 
red,  or  carmine  coloured  flowers,  and  the  Brompton  stock, 
with  large  purple  flowers,  and  the  white  stock;  there  are  also 
other  varieties,  as  the  variegated  stock,  6tc. 

The  Root  perennial,  sometimes  biennial.  Stem,  from 
15  to  18  inches  high,  branched,  hoary.  Leaves,  scattered, 
long,  soft,  clothed  with  a  short  down.  Flowers,  sweet  scent- 
ed, four  petaled,  cruciform;  petals  roundish,  longer  than  the 
calyx;  claws,  length  of  the  calyx.  The  calyx,  a  four-leaved 
perianth. 

The  Stock  Gilly-Flower,  and  Wall-Flower,  are  of  the 
same  genus. 


Fair  is  the  gilly-flow'r  of  gardens  sweet, 
Fair  is  the  marigold,  for  pottage  meet. 

And  lavish  stock,  that  scents  the  garden  round. 


Gay. 


Thomson. 

GOLDEN  ROD,  or  VIRGA  ATJREA. 

Solidago. 

Solidago,  from  solido,  to  make  firm,  and  particularly  to 
heal  a  wound.  From  its  reputed  efficacy  in  healing  wounds, 
and  other  medicinal  properties,  it  ranked  among  the  most 
expensive  drugs,  about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century, 
though  not  much  in  repute  in  modern  times. 

Fifty-one  American  species  have  been  ascertained. 
There  is  but  one  indigenous  to  Great  Britain,  but  this  is  sub- 
ject to  many  varieties.  They  are  all  perennial,  mostly  her- 
baceous. 

The  flowers  yellow,  with  very  few  exceptions. 

"  In  golden  armour  glorious  to  behold." 

Several  species  of  the  Tree  Golden  Rod,  have  been 
brought  from  St.  Helena,  with  white  flowers. 

"Nor  shines  the  silver  Moon  one  half  so  bright 
Through  the  transparent  bosom  of  the  deep." 

The  name  "Golden  Rod,  or  Virga  Aurea,"  suggested 
the  emblem,  as  well  as  the  illustrations  attached  to  the  flower; 
as  also,  the  following  note  from  the  first  edition  of  Flora's 
Dictionary. 

"  Le  Gendre  tells  us,  that  in  the  first  race  of  the  French 
Kings  the  sceptre  was  a  golden  rod,  almost  always  of  the 
same  height  with  the  king  who  bore  it,  and  crooked  at  one 
end,  like  a  crozier."  The  sceptre  is  an  ensign  of  royalty,  of 
greater  antiquity  than  the  crown. 


Mercury's  famous  Caduce,  or  Wand,  is  called  Virga. 
That  Wand,  which  was  supposed  to  possess  the  power  of 
deciding  controversies,  composing  differences,  raising  the 
dead,  &c. 

The  Caduceus  found  on  medals,  is  a  common  symbol, 
signifying  good-conduct,  peace,  and  prosperity.  The  rod  ex- 
presses power,  the  two  serpents,  prudence,  the  wings,  dili- 
gence. 

GRAPE  VINE. 

Vitis  Vinifera. 

Vitis,  a  Vine,  usually  derived  from  vieo,  to  bind  with 
twigs,  to  hoop,  to  bend,  to  tie  up — in  allusion  to  the  flexibili- 
ty of  its  branches.  "  De  Theis  traces  it  to  the  Celtic  Gwid, 
a  tree  or  shrub,  as  being  the  chief,  or  best  of  trees.  Gwin, 
is  the  name  for  wine,  in  the  same  language ;  from  whence 
comes,  evidently  enough,  the  Greek  word  for  wine  Oivo;,  La- 
tin Vinum,  English  Wine."  Rees'  Enc. 

The  specific  name  Vinifera,  L.  is  from  Vinea,  a  vine, 
or  Vinum,  wine. 

The  English  name  Grape,  is  from  the  root  of  grab, 
gripe,  and  signifies  primarily  a  cluster  or  bunch.  Welsh 
grab,  a  cluster,  a  grape.  French  grappe  de  raisin,  a  bunch 
of  grapes.  Webster. 

Bacchus,  the  God  of  Wine,  who  first  taught  the  use  of 
the  Vine,  is  represented  crowned  with  Vine  and  Ivy  leaves. 

According  to  Pliny,  he  was  the  first  who  ever  wore  a 
crown. 

The  Fig-tree,  Ivy,  and  Yew-tree,  were  also  sacred  to 
him. 


Let  dimpled  mirth  his  temples  twine, 
With  tendrils  of  the  laughing  vine. 


Scott. 


According  to  Plutarch,  the  Grape  Vine  sprang  from  the 
blood  of  the  Giants,  who  having  made  war  on  the  Gods,  had 
perished  in  battle.  The  Egyptians  never  drank  wine;  they 
held  the  liquor  to  be  the  blood  of  the  giants;  nor  did  they 
offer  it  in  libations,  thinking  it  odious  to  the  Gods. 

[See  Beloe's  Herodotus,  Euterpe.'] 

Nor  were  the  Gods,  themselves,  more  safe  above; 
Against  beleaguer'd  heav'n  the  Giants  move. 
Hills  pil'd  on  hills,  on  mountains  mountains  lie, 
To  make  their  mad  approaches  to  the  sky. 
Till  Jove,  no  longer  patient,  took  his  time 
Tjravenge,  with  thunder,  their  audacious  crime; 
Red  lightning  play'd  along  the  firmament, 
And  their  demolish'd  works  to  pieces  rent. 
Singed  with  the  flames,  and  with  the  bolts  transfix'd, 
With  native  earth,  their  blood  the  monsters  mixt. 

Dryden's  Ovid. 

The  Vitls  Vinifera,  or  common  Grape  Vine,  is  found 
naturalized  at  least,  in  most  parts  of  the  more  temperate 
climes  of  the  globe.  The  cultivated  Vine,  sports  an  endless 
variety,  in  the  shape,  colour,  and  flavour  of  the  fruit.  The 
Flowers  are  very  numerous,  small,  green,  and  with  a  fra- 
grance resembling  that  of  the  Mignonette. 


GRASS. 

Gramen,  or  Gramma. 

The  Latin  word  gramen  is  supposed  to  be  derived  from 
gradiens,  going  or  proceeding  along,  in  allusion  to  the  great 
increase  of  many  of  these  plants  by  their  creeping  roots. 
Linnseus  has  remarked  that  "  Grasses  are  the  most  general  of 
plants,  constituting  almost  a  sixth  part  of  all  the  vegetables 
on  our  globe.1' 

Grass,  E.  from  the  Greek  xe»rTi;,  definition  gramen  L. 
(grass)  foenum  L.  (hay.)  Hence  (says  Schrevelius)  the 
English  word  grass.  This  Greek  word  xe«<rn;,  is  also  put 
as  a  theme,  or  etymon,  that  is,  an  original,  and  not  a  deri- 
vative, nor  compound  word.  Schrevelius  adds,  it  is  the 
same  as  grastis,  and  defines  grastis,  gramen  (L.)  deriving  it 
from  ygxa  (Gr.)  because  it  is  the  food  of  cattle. 

The  verb  y?»»  (Gr.)  is  defined  to  eat,  and  is  conjugated 
yt*<»,  ye*<«,  ty-fxra — "whence,  perhaps,  the  English  to  graze, 
to  feed  on  herbs." 

The  creeping  roots  of  grasses,  or  gramina,  are  mostly 
fibrous,  rarely  tuberous,  or  bulbous.  They  consist  of  nume- 
rous joints  and  knots,  each  of  which  has  its  bud,  capable  of 
producing  a  new  stem,  and  the  more  they  are  separated  by 
the  heavy  tread  of  cattle,  the  more  they  multiply.  The  more 
their  herbage  is  cropped,  the  better  they  thrive,  and  extend 
themselves  the  more  under  ground.  In  confined  and  woody 
places  they  scarcely  creep,  but  grow  erect.  The  Author  of 
Nature  has  protected  these  plants,  by  giving  them  such  hard 
stems,  while  they  are  perfecting,  their  seed,  that  cattle  cannot 
readily  attack  them  in  that  state. 

Some  species  of  grass,  which,  in  moist  situations,  emit 
fibrous  roots  alone,  will,  in  more  uncongenial  and  dry  ones, 
form  bulbs,  whereby  a  reservoir  of  nutriment  is  secured 
against  the  occurrence  of  an  irregular  supply  of  the  juices 
for  its  sustenance. 

The  roots  of  large  trees,  also,  in  unpropitious  situations, 
have  been  observed  to  vary  their  natural  mode  of  growth, 
most  materially,  in  conformity  with  their  need  of  nourish- 
ment. 

There  are  upwards  of  three  hundred  species  of  Grasses 
— in  which  are  included  the  Rye,  Barley,  Wheat,  Oat,  &tc. 
They  are  distinguished  by  their  narrow  tapering  leaves — 
their  cylindrical  or  hollow  stems,  which  are  jointed,  or  sepa- 
rated into  distinct  portions  by  knots. 

They  were  first  divided  into  Corn  and  Grasses,  but  the 
former  differ  from  the  latter,  merely,  in  the  greater  size  of 
their  seeds,  which  compose  the  basis  of  our  aliment,  as  the 
smallest  of  the  grass-seeds  nourish  small  birds. 

The  Roman  crown  of  grass  or  herbs  found  on  the 
ground  in  the  place  besieged,  was  given  by  common  consent 
of  the  soldiers,  to  generals  who  had  delivered  a  Roman  army 
besieged  by  the  enemy,  and  obliged  him  to  decamp.  It  was 
called  Corona  Graminea  obsidionalis. 

About  his  temples  grass  they  tie, 

Himself  that  so  behaved, 
In  some  strong  siege  by  the  enemy 

A  city  that  had  saved.  Drayton. 

In  Herodotus,  we  find  Grass  the  symbol  of  Submission. 


"  Amongst  the  ancient  Nations  of  the  West,  to  show  that 
they  confessed  themselves  overcome,  or  that  they  surrender- 
ed at  discretion,  they  gathered  some  Grass,  and  presented  it 
to  the  conqueror.  By  this  action  they  resigned  all  the  claims 
they  possessed  to  their  country.  In  the  time  of  Pliny,  the 
Germans  still  observed  this  custom. 

(See  note  to  4  Book,  Melpomene.) 

HAWTHORN. 

Cratsegus. 
Jl.  Mespilus. 

Mespilus,  from  the  Greek  pta-nt^,  the  Medlar  tree. 

Hawthorn,  from  the  Saxon  hag-thorn,  or  hedge-thorn, 
a  species  of  Medlar;  the  thorn  that  bears  haws;  the  white- 
thorn. (See  Johnson  and  Webster.) 

Cratxgus,  from  the  Greek  xe*T«.yo;,  definition  the  wild 
service  tree. 

In  commencing  our  examination  of  this  plant,  we  are  re- 
ferred to  Cratxgus,  for  a  description  of  the  Hawthorn.  Un- 
der this  article  there  are  several  species  described,  which 
are,  also,  to  be  found  under  the  article  Mespilus,  to  which 
we  are  referred  for  the  Class,  Order,  &tc.  Mespilus,  is 
therefore  (as  I  understand  it)  the  generic  name,  embracing 
all  the  varieties  of  Medlar  and  Hawthorn;  and  Cratsegus 
confined  to  the  Hawthorn. 

The  Mespilus  is  native  to  America,  and  Europe,  and 
varies,  in  height,  from  a  shrub,  to  a  tall  tree.  That  which  pro- 
duces the  smallest  leaves  is  preferred  for  hedges,  because  its 
branches  grow  close  together.  The  thorns  of  the  whole  ge- 
nus are  long  and  sharp. 

"  The  Cratxgus  of  Linnaeus,  is  distinguished  from  his 
Mespilus,  solely  by  the  former  having  but  two  styles,  and, 
occasionally,  on  the  same  tree  some  flowers  with  but  one; 
while  the  latter  has  five."  They  are  sometimes  mentioned 
as  the  same  tree. 


Men  have  gatherM  from  hawthorn's  branch 
Large  medlars,  imitating  crowns. 


Phillips. 


The  fruit  of  the  Medlar  is  said  to  be  eatable  only  when 
age  or  decay  has  mellowed  it. 

Rotten  ere  half  ripe, 
And  that's  the  right  virtue  of  the  medlar.  Shaks. 

Haw,  the  berry,  or  seed  of  the  hawthorn,  is  also  noticed. 

The  seed  of  the  bramble  with 'kernel  and  haw. 

Tusser. 


Store  of  haws  and  hips  portend  cold  winters. 


Bacon. 


The  fruit  of  the  Medlar,  is  generally  brown,  or  red- 
dish; that  of  the  Hawthorn,  scarlet,  yellow,  or  red.  The 
flowers  of  both,  white;  sometimes  doubled  in  the  Hawthorn, 
and  rose  coloured;  as  in  the  common  Hawthorn,  Cratsegus 
Oxycanthus. 

Now  hawthorns  blossom,  now  the  daisies  spring. 

Pope. 
The  hawthorn  whitens.  Thomson. 


HEART'S  EASE. 

Viola  Tricolor. 
(For  Viola,  see  Violet.) 

Viola  tricolor,  or  Pansy  Violet,  from  the  French  pen- 
see,  thought. 

And  there  are  Pansies,  that's  for  thoughts. 

Shaks.  Hamlet. 

And  thou,  so  rich  in  gentle  names,  appealing 
To  hearts  that  own  our  nature's  common  lot; 

Thou,  styl'd  by  sportive  fancy's  better  feeling, 
".£  thought,"  "the  Heart's  Ease,"  or  "Forget  me 
not."  Barton. 


And  faith  that  a  thousand  ills  can  brave, 
Speaks  in  the  blue  leaves,  Forget  me  not. 


Percival. 


And  the  Pansy  freakt  with  jet; 
The  glowing  violet.  Milton. 

The  V.  Tricolor,  is  a  beautiful  variety  of  the  violet) 
differing  from  it,  in  the  variety  of  its  colouring,  the  petals 
being  chiefly  yellow,  variegated  with  black  and  purple.  Its 
fragrance  is  very  inferior,  and  too  weak  to  be  regarded  in 
a  single  flower.  It  is  a  native  of  Europe,  North  America, 
&c.  The  root  is  annual,  but  it  renews  itself  readily  from  the 
scattering  seeds,  so  as  to  keep  up  a  continual  bloom  all  the 
year;  even  in  the  depths  of  winter,  in  a  warm  situation,  it 
may  be  seen  beautifully  contrasted  with  the  white  snow, 
which  surrounds  it. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  blue  and  purple  Heart's 
Ease  to  be  found  all  over  North  America.  I  cannot  forbear 
giving  in  the  Bard's  own  beautiful  language  the  fanciful  origin 
of  its  colour. 

I  saw 

Flying  between  the  cold  Moon  and  the  Earth, 
Cupid  all  arm'd;  a  certain  aim  he  took 
At  a  fair  vestal,  throned  by  the  west; 
And  loos'd  his  love-shaft  smartly  from  his  bow, 
As  it  should  pierce  a  hundred  thousand  hearts: 
But  I  might  see  young  Cupid's  fiery  shaft 
Quench'd  in  the  chaste  beams  of  the  wat'ry  Moon; 
And  the  Imperial  vot'ress  passed  on, 
In  Maiden  meditation,  fancy  free. 
Yet  mark'd  I  where  the  bolt  of  Cupid  fell: 
It  fell  upon  a  little  western  flower, 
Before  milk-white;  now  purple  with  Love's  wound, 
And  Maidens  call  it  Love  in  Idleness. 
The  juice  of  it,  on  sleeping  eye-lids  laid, 
Will  make  or  Man  or  Woman  madly  doat 
Upon  the  next  live  creature  that  it  sees. 

Shaks.  Mid.  JV.  Dream. 

In  gardens  oft  a  beauteous  flow'r  there  grows, 

By  vulgar  eyes  unnoticed,  or  unseen — 

In  sweet  security  it  humbly  blows, 

And  rears  its  purple  head  to  deck  the  green. 


This  Flower,  (as  Nature's  Poet  sweetly  sings,) 
Was  once  milk-white,  and  Heart's  Ease  was  its  name, 
Till  wanton  Cupid  poised  his  roseate  wings 
A  vestal's  sacred  bosom  to  inflame. 

With  treacherous  aim  the  God  his  arrow  drew, 
Which  she  with  icy  coldness  did  repel — 
Rebounding  thence,  with  feathery  speed  it  flew, 
Till  on  this  lovely  flow'r  at  last  it  fell. 

Heart's  Ease  no  more  the  wand'ring  shepherd  found, 
No  more  the  Nymphs  its  snowy  form  possess — 
Its  white  now  changed  to  purple,  by  Love's  wound, 
Heart's  Ease  no  more,  'tis  "  Love  in  Idleness." 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Sheridan. 

HELIOTROPE;  or,  TURNSOLE. 
Heliotropium. 

Heliotropium,  L.  from  the  Greek  >ixic;,  the  sun,  and 
re-a-oj,  to  turn,  "  because,"  says  Dioscorides,  "  it  turns  its 
leaves  round  with  the  declining  sun." 

This  flower  has  been  confounded  with  the  Helianthus, 
or  Sun-flower,  but  is  of  a  different  genus.  Both  have  had 
ascribed  to  them  the  property  of  turning  towards  the  sun, 
and  following  his  course  round  the  horizon.  A  property  not 
confined  to  these  flowers  alone,  as  other  plants  do  the  same, 
in  a  more  or  less  degree,  particularly  when  confined  in  a 
room,  turning  the  shining  surface  of  their  leaves,  and  bend- 
ing their  whole  branches  to  catch  the  light. 

It  is  surprising  that  two  flowers  so  unlike,  as  the  Sun- 
Flower  and  Heliotrope,  should  ever  have  been  mistaken 
for  each  other.  The  blossoms  of  the  Sun-Flower  are  too 
well  known  to  need  a  description  here;  those  of  the  Helio- 
trope, are  very  small,  delicate,  fragrant  blossoms,  generally 
of  a  faint  purple  colour,  or  white,  sometimes  red,  and  bluish 
white.  It  is  made  to  be  yellow,  and  confounded  with  the 
Sun-flower  in  the  following  lines — 


Browne. 


What  yellow,  lovely  as  the  golden  morn, 
The  lupine,  and  the  heliotrope  adorn. 

The  snowy  rose  is  there 

A  silver  moon,  the  heliotrope  a  Sun! 

Jlndrein's  -Adam. 

The  fabulous  account  of  the  origin  of  the  Heliotrope,  is, 
that  Clytia  (daughter  of  Oceanus)  being  deserted  by  Apollo, 
with  whom  she  was  enamoured,  pined  away,  and  was  changed 
into  a  flower  commonly  called  sun-flower,  which  still  turns 
its  head  towards  the  Sun,  in  his  course,  as  in  pledge  of  her 
love.  Ovid  says  of  her — 

All  day,  all  night,  in  trackless  wilds,  alone 
She  pin'd  and  taught  the  list'ning  rocks  her  moan. 
On  the  bare  earth  she  lies,  her  bosom  bare, 
Loose  her  attire,  dishevell'd  is  her  hair. 

*  *  #  # 

She  turn'd  about,  but  rose  not  from  the  ground, 
Turn'd  to  the  Sun,  still  as  he  roll'd  his  round : 


On  his  bright  face  hung  her  desiring  eyes, 

Till  fix'd  to  earth,  she  strove  in  vain  to  rise. 

Her  looks  their  paleness  in  a  flow'r  retain'd, 

But  here  and  there,  some  purple  streaks  they  gain'd. 

Still  the  lov'd  object  the  fond  leaves  pursue, 

Still  move  their  root,  the  moving  Sun  to  view, 

And  in  the  Heliotrope  the  Nymph  is  true. 

Eusden's  Ovid. 

The  Heliotrope  is  a  native  of  warm  climates;  growing 
in  India,  Peru,  the  West  Indies,  South  of  Europe,  kc.  With 
us,  it  is  a  green-house  plant  of  the  shrubby,  and  herbaceous 
kinds,  with  annual,  and  biennial  roots.  Calyx  of  one  leaf, 
tubular,  with  five  segments,  permanent.  Corolla  of  one  pe- 
tal, salver  shaped,  five  cleft,  with  intermediate  teeth:  its 
mouth  without  valves.  Seeds  naked. 

HELLEBORE. 
Helleborus. 

Helleborus,  L.  The  ixiu^oj,  ,uix.*s  of  Dioscorides. 
The  name  most  probably  derived  from  ,^stv  (Gr.)  to  kill,  and 
git*,  food,  or  fodder,  in  allusion  to  the  poisonous  qualities  for 
which  it  has  been  famous  throughout  antiquity.  (Accord- 
ing to  Bergeret,  it  is  derived  from  the  river  Eleborus.) 

The  Black  Hellebore  was  used  by  the  ancients  to  purify 
their  houses,  and  to  hallow  their  dwellings.  By  strewing  or 
perfuming  their  apartments  with  this  plant,  they  believed  that 
evil  spirits  would  be  expelled  or  driven  away. 

By  the  witches'  tow'r 

Where  Hellebore  and  hemlock  seem  to  weave 
Round  its  dark  vaults  a  melancholy  bow'r, 
For  spirits  of  the  dead  at  night's  enchanted  hour. 

Campbell. 

We  find  it,  in  the  Materia  Medica,  prescribed  for  hy- 
pochondria and  mania.  Burton  notices  it  in  his  "Anatomy  of 
Melancholy." 

"  Borage  and  Hellebore  fill  two  scenes, 
Soveraigne  plants  to  clear  the  veins 
Of  melancholy,  and  cheer  the  heart 
Of  those  black  fumes  which  make  it  smart ; 
To  clear  the  brain  of  misty  fogs, 
Which  dull  our  senses,  and  soul  clogs; 
The  best  medicine  that  ere  God  made 
For  this  malady,  if  well  assaid." 

Dainty  young  thing 
Of  life!  Thou  vent'rous  flower 
Who  growest  through  the  hard,  cold  bower, 
Of  wintry  spring. 

*  *  *  * 

Thy  fancied  bride 
The  delicate  snow-drop  keeps 
Her  home  with  thee;  she  wakes  and  sleeps 
Near  thy  true  side. 

J.  R.  Prior. 

It  should  never  be  allowed  a  place  in  the  kitchen  garden, 


since  fatal  accidents  have  arisen  from  mistaking  its  root  for 
that  of  the  horse  radish. 

The  H.  Niger,  or  Christmas  rose,  blooms  in  mid-win- 
ter, and  few  plants  are  more  elegant.  The  flower  is  some- 
thing like  the  dog-rose — white  on  first  opening,  afterwards 
with  a  blush  of  pink,  and  finally  greenish.  The  foliage  a 
dark  and  shining  green;  leaves  pedate,  luxuriant.  The  root 
perennial,  externally  very  dark — consisting  of  a  roundish 
head,  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg;  from  which  short,  articulat- 
ed bunches  arise,  sending  out  numerous  corrugated  fibres, 
about  the  thickness  of  a  straw,  from  a  span  to  a  foot  in  length, 
deep  brown  outside,  white  or  yellow  within,  and  of  an  acrid 
nauseous  taste. 

Native  of  the  south  of  Europe.  In  our  gardens  a  hardy 
shrub. 

The  Hellebore  Qfficlnalis,  the  true  Hellebore  of  the 
ancients.  The  roots  very  like  the  H.  Niger — the  leaves 
twice  the  breadth,  and  truly  pedate.  The  flower-stalks  do 
not  rise  above  the  leaves,  but  are  branched,  bearing  five  or 
six  drooping,  concave,  white  Jlowers,  turning  purplish  as 
they  fade.  Corolla  deciduous. 

The  North  American  H  Trifolius,  or  small  three-leaf- 
ed Hellebore,  with  twice  ternate  leaves,  and  green  flowers, 
is  a  very  pretty  plant. 

The  H.  Hyemalis,  Winter  Hellebore,  or  Yellow  Win- 
ter Aconite,  a  little  herbaceous  plant,  with  a  yellow  Jlower, 
whose  petals  are  deciduous:  native  of  Germany,  Switzer- 
land, and  France;  common  in  our  gardens,  and  forming  a 
beautiful  contrast  with  the  snow  drop  which  blooms  about 
the  same  time. 

We  are  told  that  the  powder  of  Black  Hellebore  given 
as  snuff,  has  cured  diseases  of  the  eyes;  particularly  that  call- 
ed Nyctalopia,  in  which  the  eyes  become  periodically  dim, 
usually  from  sunset  till  sunrise  the  next  morning. 

Of  this  plant  Juvenal  sarcastically  observes: 

"  Misers  need  a  double  dose  of  Hellebore." 

Bright  as  the  silvery  plume,  or  pearly  shell, 
The  snow-white  rose,  or  lily's  virgin  bell, 
The  fair  Helleborus  attractive  shone, 
Warm'd  every  sage,  and  every  shepherd  won. 

Darwin. 

HIBISCUS. 
Venetian  Mallow,  or  Flower  of  an  Hour. 

Hibiscus  Trionum. 
(For  Hibiscus,  see  JHthsea.) 

The  specific  name  Trionum.  There  is  a  T^IOVOV  in 
Theophrastus,  said  to  be  one  of  the  Mallow  tribe;  like  the 
Hibiscus  in  question,  whose  leaves,  having  three  lobes,  are 
supposed  to  sanction  the  present  application  of  this  name. 

Bees'  Encyclopedia. 

The  species  constituting  the  genus  Hibiscus,  are  a  nu- 
merous tribe  of  the  largest  and  finest  plants  of  the  Malva- 
ceous  order. 

The  Hibiscus  Trionum,  beautiful  Venetian  Mallow,  or 
Flower  of  an  Hour,  is  a  European  species,  and  one  of  the 
few  that  are  annual.  It  is  commonly  cultivated  for  the  ele- 
gance of  its  flowers,  which  are  large,  sulphur  coloured,  with 


five  purple  external  stripes,  and  a  violet  eye,  beautifully  con- 
trasted with  the  yellow  anthers.  The  purple  hairy  stigmas, 
too,  are  remarkable;  as  well  as  the  bladdery  hisped  inner  ca- 
lyx. It  has  a  double  calyx — the  outer  .permanent,  inner  of 
one  leaf,  cup-shaped,  five  cleft  half  way  down,  permanent. 
Petals  five,  narrow  at  the  base,  spreading.  Leaves  in  three 
deep  divisions,  cut,  somewhat  pinnatifid. 

There  is  a  plant  of  mildest  hue, 
Whose  modest  visage  charms  the  eye, 
Which  blooms  as  fair  as  tho'  it  grew 
Beneath  a  purer,  holier  sky. 

As  mellow  as  the  Moon's  soft  beam 
On  ocean's  mirror'd  breast  arrayed, 
Swifter  it  passes  than  a  dream, 
And  blossoms — only  but  to  fade. 

Thus  Beauty  lights  the  Maiden's  face, 

With  all  her  mildest — chastest  rays, 

When  searing  age  comes  on  apace, 

And  leaves  no  mark  of  former  days.  S  *  *  n. 

HOLLY. 

Ilex. 

Ilex  appears  to  be  an  original  Latin  word.  Johnson 
derives  the  name  Holly  from  Holegn,  Saxon,  for  a  Tree. 
Webster  from  Holegn,  (Saxon,)  the  Holm  tree,  of  the  genus 
Ilex.  Ainsworth  defines  Ilex  to  be  "a  kind  of  oak  tree, 
called  by  some  Holm:  the  Scarlet  Oak,  the  Holm  Oak." 

Skinner  suggests  that  the  Saxon  for  Holly,  Holegn,  is 
compounded  of  Hoi,  all;  and  Ergc,  sharp  point,  because  it 
is  all  sharpened,  or  pointed  with  thorns. 

The  Ilex  of  the  Latin  has  become,  in  the  Italian,  Elice. 
See  Baretti's  Dictionary. 

The  Holly  is  a  beautiful  evergreen  tree,  several  species 
of  which  are  abundant  in  North  America.  It  also  grows  in 
many  parts  of  Europe,  Japan,  &c.  There  is  one  species,  na- 
tive of  West  Florida,  called  South  Sea  Tea,  the  Ilex  Vomi- 
toria,  held  in  great  estimation  by  the  Indians,  who  make  a 
tea  of  the  leaves,  and  account  it  very  wholesome:  and  it  is 
almost  the  only  physic  they  use  in  those  parts.  The  plant  is 
supposed  to  be  the  same  with  that  of  Paraguay,  where  the 
Jesuits  make  a  great  revenue  from  the  leaves. 

The  Holly  is  a  tree  of  singular  beauty,  sometimes  rising 
to  the  height  of  twenty  or  thirty  feet,  with  shining  prickly 
leaves  and  white  flowers,  which  grow  in  clusters  round  the 
branches,  and  are  succeeded  by  berries  of  a  bright  scarlet 
colour,  containing  four  very  hard  seeds.  The  leaves  form  a 
grateful  food  to  many  animals:  but  Nature  has  armed  them 
for  self-defence  against  these  depredators,  in  their  sharp 
prickles.  And  it  is  curious  to  observe,  that  the  thorny  leaves 
only  grow  on  the  lower  part  of  the  tree,  where  they  are  most 
liable  to  be  destroyed;  and  that  those  above,  out  of  the  reach 
of  horses  and  cattle,  have  smooth  leaves,  as  if  conscious  that 
there  they  might  repose  in  safety. 

Four  of  the  giant  brood  with  Hex  stand, 
Each  grasps  a  thousand  arrows  in  his  hand; 


A  thousand  steely  points  on  every  scale, 
Form  the  bright  terrors  of  his  bristly  mail. 

Darwin. 

The  bark  of  the  common  Holly,  I.  aquifolium,  when 
fermented  and  then  washed  from  the  woody  fibres,  constitutes 
the  common  bird  lime,  a  material  somewhat  similar  to  the 
elastic  gum,  or  Indian  rubber. 

HOLLYHOCK,  or  ROSE-MALLOW. 
Jllcca  rosea. 

Jllcea,  from  the  Greek  Axxn,  strength,  aid,  on  account 
of  its  reputed  medicinal  properties,  for  which  it  was  formerly 
held  in  great  esteem. 

Ainsworth  defines  Jllcea,  a  kind  of  wild  Mallow ;  marsh 
mallow. 

Hollyhock,  its  derivation  may  be  traced  to  the  Saxon 
language;  the  old  name  of  Holy  oak,  being  the  same  as  Holi- 
Jiec,  Saxon. 

The  Hollyhock  is  a  native  of  China,  Africa,  Madras, 
Istira,  Siberia,  &c.  Pliny  speaks  of  this  flower  in  the  fourth 
chapter  of  his  twenty-first  book,  where  he  describes  it  as  a 
rose  growing  on  stalks,  like  a  mallow.  The  colour  of  the 
flowers  is  accidental,  and  the  double  flowers  are  only  varieties 
proceeding  from  culture.  It  is  an  autumnal  flower  of  which 
the  Bees  are  fond. 

From  the  nectaries  of  Hollyhocks 
The  humble  Bee,  e'en  till  he  faints,  will  sip. 

H.  Smith. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  a  double  Calyx,  each  one- 
leafed,  the  outer,  cut  half  way  into  six  parts,  permanent,  and 
very  spreading;  the  inner,  cut  half  way  into  five  parts,  larger, 
and  permanent.  The  Corolla  consists  of  five  spreading  pe- 
tals, coalescing  at  their  base.  This  description  is  of  the 
single  flowered.  Seed  flat,  kidney-shaped. 

HONESTY,  or  SATIN  FLOWER. 

Lunaria. 

Lunaria,  from  Luna,  the  Moon,  so  named  on  account 
of  the  broad  orbicular  shape  of  its  sUique,  and  its  silvery  semi- 
transparent  nature,  which  discovers  those  seed-vessels  that 
contain  seed,  from  such  as  have  none;  from  which  last,  it  de- 
rives its  English  name  of  Honesty. 

Ainsworth  defines  Lunaria  to  be  Moon- Wort,  a  kind 
of  herb  used  by  old  women  for  love-potions. 

It  was  in  high  repute  among  the  credulous  of  former 
ages,  as  a  bewitching,  or  enchanting  herb.  And  we  learn 
from  Chaucer  that  Lunaria  was  one  of  the  plants  used  ID 
incantations. 

Then  sprinkles  she  the  juice  of  rue 

With  nine  drops  of  the  midnight  dew, 

From  Lunary  distilling.  Draytorfs  Jfymphia. 

Enchanting  Lunary  here  lies, 

In  sorceries  excelling.  Drayton. 

This  genus  of  plants  is  herbaceous,   annual,  biennial, 


and  perennial.  Natives  of  Germany,  Switzerland,  fcc.  They 
sometimes  grow  to  the  height  of  three  or  four  feet.  Flowers, 
crimson,  lilac,  &tc.  Sometimes  fragrant.  Corolla,  cruciform, 
of  four  equal,  large,  undivided,  obtuse  petals,  as  long  as  the 
Calyx,  each  tapering  down  into  a  claw  of  the  same  length. 
Calyx,  of  four  ovate  oblong  cohering  leaves,  of  which  two 
opposite  ones  are  pouched,  or  bagged  at  the  base. 

HONEY  FLOWER. 

Melianthus. 

Melianthus,  L.  from  the  Greek  ^KI,  honey,  and  avS-o;, 
a  flower,  so  named  from  the  abundance  of  honey  which  flows 
from  M.  Major,  in  particular,  which,  if  shaken  whilst  in 
flower,  distils  a  shower  of  nectar. 

There  are  only  three  species  noticed  in  the  Encyclope- 
dia. The  M.  Major,  with  flowers  in  a  long  spike,  springing 
from  between  the  leaves  towards  the  top  of  the  stalks,  of  a 
brown,  or  chocolate  colour.  The  M.  Minor,  flowers,  six 
or  eight  in  a  cluster,  very  ornamental,  variegated  with  green, 
yellow,  and  red,  or  pink.  And  the  M.  Comosus,  flowers,  in 
pendant  clusters,  on  short  stalks,  of  a  yellow  colour.  These 
are  all  natives  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.  Roots  perennial: 
growing  to  the  height  of  from  three  to  four  feet. 

HONEYSUCKLE;  or,  WOODBINE. 

Lonicera, 

Lonicera,  so  named  by  Liunxus,  in  honour  of  Jldam 
Lonicer,  an  old  physician  and  naturalist,  who  lived  about  the 
middle  of  the  sixteenth  century:  born  at  Marburg,  1528,  lived 
at  Frankfort,  and  died  at  the  age  of  fifty-eight.  He  publish- 
ed two  volumes,  folio,  in  Latin,  upon  the  Materia  Medica; 
and  a  German  Herbal,  with  wooden  cuts,  which  are  occasion- 
ally to  be  met  with  rudely  coloured. 

The  English  name  Honeysuckle,  is  called,  in  Latin, 
Caprifolium;  first  definition  in  Johnson,  Woodbine,  the 
plant.  2d.  The  flower,  or  blossom,  of  the  Woodbine. — 
"  Woodbine  that  beareth  the  Honeysuckle." 

"A  Honeysuckle 

The  amorous  Woodbine's  offspring." 

(See  Johnson.) 

Caprifolium  is  derived  from  the  Latin  Caprea,  a  branch 
that  putteth  forth  tendrils;  and  folium,  a  leaf, 

Caprea,  also  signifies  a  roe,  a  deer,  a  gazelle.  The 
French  name  for  the  Lonicera  Caprifolium,  is  Chcvrefeu- 
ille,  said  to  be  derived  from  the  Latin  Caper,  or  Capra,  a 
goat;  and  folium,  a  leaf.  We  are  also  told  that  goats  are 
remarkably  fond  of  the  leaves  of  the  Honeysuckle. 

Woodbine — Latin,  Periclymenon;  English,  Honey- 
suckle. (See  Johnson.) 

Periclymenon,  L.  derived  from  the  Greek  *-£P.x;u,usi>oi<, 
from  -i%i,  about,  and  xvKtai,  to  roll  around. 

L.  Caprifolium,  in  the  Encyclopedia,  designates  a  spe- 
cies called  Pale  perfoliate  Honeysuckle,  native  of  Great 
Britain.  Leaves  deciduous;  the  uppermost  united  and  per- 
foliate. Flowering  in  May  or  June,  in  England.  Stem 
shrubby,  woody,  turning.  Branches  nearly  opposite,  round, 


smooth.  Almost  all  the  leaves  are  combined,  elliptical,  ob- 
tuse, entire,  smooth,  rather  glaucous  beneath;  the  upper  ones 
in  united  perfoliate  pairs,  somewhat  orbiculate  accompanying 
the  flowers.  Flowers  in  whorls,  ringent,  terminal,  spread- 
ing, yellowish,  with  a  flesh-coloured  tube,  very  fragrant. 
Berries  of  an  orange  red,  crowned  by  the  almost  entire 
calyx. 

L.  Periclymenon,  Common  Honeysuckle,  or  Woodbine, 
native  of  Europe,  flowering  in  June,  July,  and  occasionally 
in  the  Autumn.  Stem  and  branches  similar  to  the  last. 
Leaves  opposite,  on  very  short  foot-stalks,  elliptical,  entire, 
sometimes  pubescent,  glaucous  beneath.  Flowers  in  a  ter- 
minal head,  spreading  in  a  radiate  manner,  yellowish-white, 
and  blush-coloured,  very  fragrant,  and  particularly  so,  early 
in  the  evening.  Berries  red,  crowned  with  a  five-toothed 
calyx,  bitter,  with  a  sweetish  flavour. 

A  remarkable  variety  sometimes  occurs  with  sinuated, 
variegated  leaves,  called  the  Oak-leaved  Honeysuckle. 

The  flowers  of  the  genus  Lonicera,  have  five-cleft  calyx. 
Corolla  of  one  petal,  tubular;  tube  oblong,  gibbous;  limb  in 
five  revolute  segments,  one  of  which  is  more  deeply  se- 
parated. 

A  Honeysuckle  on  the  sunny  side, 

Hung  round  the  lattices  its  fragrant  trumpets. 

Landon. 

Copious  of  flowers,  the  Woodbine  pale  and  wan, 
But  well  compensating  her  sickly  looks 
With  never  cloying  odours,  early  and  late.          Cowper. 

The  Wild  Honeysuckle,  Jlzalea,  is  a  splendid  genus  of 
shrubs,  abundant  in  North  America:  to  be  found,  also,  in  the 
East  Indies. 

JLzalea,  is  derived  from  the  Greek  ufa^co;,  dry,  from  its 
growing  in  a  dry  soil.  Its  flower  resembles  that  of  the  Honey- 
suckle, or  Lonicera,  but  is  much  larger  and  richer  in  its 
hues.  Some  of  the  species  are  delightfully  fragrant.  JV*a- 
tural  order  different  from  Lonicera,  as  will  be  seen  in 
Glossary. 

HOUSTONIA. 

Named  by  Linnaeus  after  Dr.  William  Houston,  F.  R. 
S.,  resident  for  several  years  in  the  West  Indies.  He  visited 
the  Spanish  Main,  from  whence  he  sent  various  seeds  to 
Europe,  between  the  years  1728  and  1732.  Some  engrav- 
ings of  flowers,  by  his  own  hand,  were  purchased  by  Sir  Jo- 
seph Banks,  who  printed  and  liberally  distributed  an  edition 
of  them. 

There  are  several  varieties  of  the  Houstonia,  natives  of 
North  America — as  the  H.  Cserulea,  H.  Purpurea,  Etc.:  a 
genus  of  pretty  little  delicate  plants  that  cover  our  fields  in 
the  early  spring,  with  their  small  brilliant  pale  blue,  or  almost 
white  flowers,  with  a  yellow  eye,  jasmine  like,  but  scentless; 
produced  all  the  summer  long.  Each  flower  grows  on  a 
slender,  simple,  naked,  smooth  stalk,  only  a  few  inches  high. 
The  perianth  half  superior,  of  four  small  upright  permanent 
teeth.  Corolla  of  one  petal,  funnel-shaped;  tube  much 
longer  than  the  calyx,  cylindrical,  slightly  dilated  at  the  top; 
limb  in  four  deep,  roundish  or  elliptical  spreading  segments. 


Leaves  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch  long,  entire,  smooth, 
rough-edged,  rather  acute;  the  radical  ones  obovate,  stalked; 
stem-leaves  opposite,  much  narrower;  roots  fibrous  and  pe- 
rennial. If  the  least  attention  be  paid,  it  flowers  perpetually. 
It  has  been  transplanted  to  the  European  green-houses;  but 
with  us  it  is  so  common  and  so  abundant,  that  it  is  left  in  quiet 
possession  of  its  native  fields,  where  it  flourishes  in  unambi- 
tious contentment. 

Its  four-cleft  petal  forms  a  Maltese  cross,  and  its  yellow 
anthers,  also,  form  a  cross  in  the  centre,  looking  like  a  tiny 
drop  of  gold  set  in  pearls. 

How  often,  modest  flower, 
I  mark  thy  tender  blossoms,  when  they  spread, 
Along  the  turfy  slope,  their  starry  bed, 

Hung  heavy  with  the  shower.  Pertival. 

Sweet  flower,  thou  tell'st  how  hearts 
As  pure  and  tender  as  thy  leaf, — as  low 
And  humble  as  thy  stem,  will  surely  know 

The  joy  that  peace  imparts.  Same. 

The  popular  names  of  Houstonia,  are  Dwarf  Pink, 
Bluets,  Innocence,  and  sometimes  American  Daisy,  (al- 
though it  has  none  of  the  botanical  characteristics  of  the  Bel- 
Us,)  from  its  humble  growth,  its  simple  beauty,  and  general 
diffusion  over  the  United  States,  covering  and  adorning  our 
fields,  as  does  the  European  Daisy  in  its  own  climate,  and 
like  it,  an  endeared  little  flower,  and  universal  favourite. 

HYACINTH. 

Hyacinthus. 

Hyacinthus,  a  name  adopted  from  the  ancient  Greeks, 
who  applied  it  to  the  flower  supposed  to  have  sprung  from 
the  blood  of  Hyacinthus,  son  of  Amyclas,  founder  of  the  city 
of  Amyclffi.  He  was  a  favourite  with  both  Apollo  and  Zephy- 
rus,  but  his  preference  of  the  Sun  to  the  Winds,  excited  the 
jealousy  of  Zephyrus,  who  caused  his  destruction,  by  sending 
a  puff  of  wind  to  change  the  course  of  a  quoit  thrown  by 
Apollo,  so  as  to  fall  upon  the  head  of  the  young  Hyacinthus 
and  deprive  him  of  his  life. 

He  was  afterwards  changed  by  Apollo  into  a  flower  bear- 
ing his  name. 

You  when  alive,  were  Phoebus'  darling  boy; 

#  *  #  * 

Yet  this  he  gave;  as  oft  as  wintry  rains 
Are  past,  and  vernal  breezes  soothe  the  plains, 
From  the  green  turf,  a  purple  flow'r  you  rise, 
And  with  your  fragrant  breath  perfume  the  skies. 

***** 

Thy  name  my  lyre  shall  sound,  my  verse  shall  tell; 
And  to  a  flow'r  transform'd  unheard  of  yet, 
Stamp'd  on  thy  leaves,  my  cries  thou  shall  repeat. 
The  time  shall  come  prophetic  I  foreknow, 
When  join'd  to  thee,  a  mighty  chief*  shall  grow 
And  with  my  plaints  his  name  my  leaf  shall  show. 


Ajax. 


While  Phoebus  thus  the  laws  of  fate  reveal'd, 
Behold  the  blood  which  stain'd  the  verdant  field, 
Is  blood  no  longer;  but  a  flow'r  full  blown, 
A  lily's  form  it  took ;  its  purple  hue 
Was  all  that  made  a  difference  to  the  view. 
Nor  stopp'd  he  here;  the  god  upon  its  leaves, 
The  sad  expression  of  his  sorrow  weaves; 
And  to  this  hour  the  mournful  purple  wears 
Jli,  Jli,  inscrib'd  in  fun'ral  characters.         OzilVs  Ovid. 

Another  fabulous  account  of  the  flower,  is,  that  it  sprung 
from  the  blood  of  Jljax  Telamonius,  who  slew  himself  in  a 
rage,  when  the  arms  of  Achilles  were  adjudged  by  the  Greeks 
to  his  rival,  Ulysses.  And  it  is  described  by  Ovid,  as  a.  pur- 
ple flower  in  this  instance,  also. 

The  fruitful  blood  produc'd  a  flower  which  grew 
On  a  green  stem,  and  of  a  purple  hue: 
Like  his,  whom  unaware,  Apollo  slew: 
Inscribed  in  both,  the  letters  were  the  same, 
But  those  express  the  grief,  and  these  the  name. 

[See  Death  of  Jljax. 

As  poets  feign'd — from  Ajax  streaming  blood 
Arose,  with  grief  inscribed,  a  mournful  flower. 

Young's  Night  Thoughts. 

0  tell  in  what  delightful  region  springs 

The  flow'r  that  bears  inscrib'd  the  names  of  kings.* 

Virgil's  Eclogues. 

Great  differences  have  arisen  amongst  commentators 
Concerning  this  plant  of  the  ancients,  which  we  cannot  pre- 
sume to  settle,  but  there  seems  no  paramount  authority  for 
the  application  of  the  name  in  question  to  our  common  gar- 
den Hyacinth.  [See  Rees*  Encyclopedia. 

The  garland  of  Flora  tells  us  that  the  classical  flower, 
is  a  species  of  Martagon  Lily,  and  decides  it  to  be  the  red 
JMartagon  lily — quoting  Martyn,  as  observing  "  that  most 
Martagons  are  marked  with  many  spots  of  a  darker  colour 
than  the  flower  itself;  which  often  run  together  so  as  to  form 
the  letters  Jli — as  the  ancient  hyacinth  is  represented." 

1  have  searched  in  vain  for  the  origin  of  the  word  JWar- 
tagon;  all  that  I  can  find  said  of  it,  is,  that  Gerard,  who 
wrote  in  1596,  in  speaking  of  a  lily  brought  ''many  dales 
iourneis  beyond  Constantinople,"  which  he  calls  Lilium  Bi- 
zantinum,  "  the  red  lilie  of  Constantinople,"  tells  us,  that  he 
had  two  other  smaller  kinds  of  lilies  growing  in  his  garden, 
which,  at  that  time,  bore  the  name  of  J\Iartagon,  which  seems 
to  have  been  given  to  these  kinds  of  lilies  by  Matthiolus. 

The  Martagon,  is  elsewhere  represented  as  a  species  of 
lily  red  or  yellow,  with  dark  spots,  or  blotched.  Flowers 
pendulous,  or  hanging  downwards.  This  agrees  with  the 
Hyacinth,  whose  bell  flowers  of  the  form  of  the  lily,  and  only 
inferior  in  size,  are  suspended  by  a  short  peduncle,  or  flower 
stalk.  The  Martagon  lily  has  a  disagreeable  scent,  but  the 
Hyacinth  a  delightful  odour. 

*  From  Pitt's  Virgil  "  of  Kings— The  flower  here  meant  is  the 
Hyacinth,  which,  as  it  is  said  to  spring  from  the  blood  of  Jljax,  was 
marked  *4.  I." 


Now  tell  your  story,  hyacinth;  and  show 
Jli,  Jll,  the  more  amidst  your  sanguine  wo. 

Calendar  of  Nature,  G.  ofF. 

"  Or  that  red  flower  whose  lips  ejaculate 

Wo."  Garland  of  Flora. 

Camus,*  reverend  sire,  went  footing  slow, 
His  mantle  hairy,  and  his  bonnet  sedge, 
Inwrought  with  figures  dim,  and  on  the  edge, 
Like  to  that  sanguine  flower,  inscribed  with  wo. 

Milton's  Lycidas. 

The  Martagon,  of  classic  honours  vain, 
Bears  on  his  brow  the  gory  spotted  stain. 
Still  darkly  graved  on  each  returning  bloom 
The  moans  of  Phoebus,  and  the  Hero's  doom. 

Dr.  Evans. 

The  Flora  Historica  remarks  that  "  some  authors  sup- 
pose the  red  Martagon  lily  to  be  the  poetical  Hyacinth  of 
the  ancients,  but  this  is  evidently  a  mistaken  opinion,  as  the 
azure  colour  would  decide — and  a  blue  Martagon  will  be 
sought  in  vain. — Pliny  describes  the  Hyacinth,  as  having  a 
sword  grass  leaf,  and  the  scent  of  the  grape  flower,  which 
agrees  with  the  Hyacinth,  but  not  with  the  Martagon." — 
Upon  the  whole,  it  appears  to  be  an  affair  not  easily  decided. 

The  drooping  pendulous  growth  of  the  Hyacinth  is  allu- 
ded to  in  the  following  lines: 


The  melancholy  hyacinth,  that  weeps 
All  night  and  never  lifts  an  eye  all  day. 

The  languid  hyacinth  who  wears 

His  bitter  sorrow  painted  on  his  bosom. 


Hurdis. 


G.  of  Flora. 


And  for  their  grateful  perfume,  we  have — 

There  were 

Hyacinths,  with  their  graceful  bells, 
Where  the  spirit  of  odour  dwells.  London,  G.  F. 

Breathe  o'er  the  hyacinth  bells 
Where,  every  summer,  odour  dwells.  L.  E.  L. 

The  sad  blue,  or  purple  colour,  is  noticed  by  PercivaL 

"  A  hyacinth  lifted  its  purple  bell 

From  the  slender  leaves  around  it; 

It  curved  its  cup  in  a  flowing  swell, 

And  a  starry  circle  crowned  it; 

The  deep  blue  tincture  that  robed  it,  seem'd, 

The  gloomiest  garb  of  sorrow, 

As  if  on  its  eye  no  brightness  beamed, 

And  it  never  in  clearer  moments  dreamed, 

Of  a  fair  and  calm  to-morrow." 


The  colours  for  mourning  are  various,  in  different  coun- 
tries; and  for  each  there  is  an  assigned  reason. 

In  Europe,  the  ordinary  colour  for  mourning  is  black — 
denoting  the  privation  of  life;  as  being  the  privation  of  light. 

In  Turkey  blue  or  violet  denotes  mourning.  Blue,  as 
expressing  the  happiness  which  it  is  hoped  the  deceased  en- 
joy; and  purple,  or  violet,  sorrow  on  the  one  side,  and  hope 
on  the  other,  as  being  a  mixture  of  black  and  blue.  Kings 
and  Cardinals  always  mourn  in  purple. 

In  China,  it  is  white;  supposed  to  denote  purity. 

The  ancient  Spartan  and  Roman  Ladies  mourned  in 
white;  and  the  same  colour  obtained  formerly  in  Castile,  on 
the  death  of  their  Princes.  The  last  time  it  was  used  was 
in  1498,  at  the  death  of  Prince  John. 

In  Egypt,  yellow  is  the  mourning  colour,  denoting  that 
death  is  the  end  of  human  hopes;  as  leaves  when  they  fall, 
and  flowers  when  they  fade,  become  yellow. 

In  Ethiopia,  brown,  the  emblem  of  mourning,  denotes 
the  earth,  whither  the  dead  return. 

The  memory  of  the  lamented  Hyacinthus  was  kept 
alive  by  annual  solemnities  called  Hyacinthia,  celebrated  at 
Amycla?  in  Laconia,  which  lasted  three  days.  The  first  day 
was  devoted  to  mourning  for  Hyacinthus,  the  other  two  were 
spent  in  games  and  festivals  in  honour  of  Apollo,  and  in  allu- 
sion to  the  fabulous  origin  of  this  favourite  flower,  by  the 
death  of  the  youth,  while  Apollo  was  engaged  in  one  of  these 
games. 

Nor  are  the  Spartans,  who  so  much  are  fam'd 
For  virtue,  of  their  hyacinth  asham'd; 
But  still  with  pompous  wo,  and  solemn  state, 
The  hyacinthian  feasts  they  yearly  celebrate. 

OzilFs  Ovid. 

The  English  Hyacinth,  non  scriptus,  commonly  called 
harebell,  from  the  bell- shape  of  its  flowers,  and  from  its  being 
found  so  frequently  in  those  thickets  most  frequented  by 
hares,  is  of  a  clear  blue,  occasionally  seen  with  a  pure  white 
corolla.  It  has  been  scarcely  less  celebrated  than  the  poetic 
hyacinth.  Shakspeare's  magic  pen  is  alone  sufficient  to  give 
it  the  stamp  of  celebrity. 

With  fairest  flowers 

Whilst  summer  lasts,  and  I  live  here,  Fidele, 
I'll  sweeten  thy  sad  grave:  thou  shall  not  lack 
The  flower  that's  like  thy  face,  pale  Primrose,  nor 
The  azure  harebell,  like  thy  veins.  Shaks. 


In  the  lone  copse,  or  shady  dell, 
Wild  cluster'd  knots  of  harebells  blow. 


Char.  Smith. 


stands. 


The  poetical  name  of  the  river  Cam,  on  which  Cambridge 


The  harebell,  for  her  stainless  azured  hue, 
Claims  to  be  worn  by  none  but  those  are  true. 

W.  Browne. 

Dioscorides  tells  us,  that  the  root  of  this  flower  will  pro- 
cure hair  on  bald,  and  beardless  men. 
The  cottage  children  call  it  blue  bell. 


•*•- 


Bluebell !  how  gayly  art  thou  drest, 

How  neat  and  trim  art  thou,  sweet  flower; 

How  silky  is  thy  azure  vest, 

How  fresh  to  flaunt  at  morning's  horfr!    Mrs.  Robinson. 

Gerard  calls  this  plant  blue  harebell,  or  English  Jacint, 
which  is  evidently  from  the  French  Jacinthe.  The  term  non 
scriptus,  was  applied  by  Dodonasus,  because  it  had  not  the  Jli, 
Jli,  on  the  petals,  and,  therefore,  could  not  be  the  Hyacin- 
thus  Poeticus.  F.  Historica. 

The  garden  Hyacinth,  H.  Orientalis,  has  numerous  va- 
rieties, all  without  a  Calyx.  Corolla  of  one  petal,  bell-shaped; 
limb  in  six  reflected  segments.  Nectary  three  pores  near 
the  summit  of  the  germen.  Frequently  doubled. 


HYDRANGER;  or,  CHINESE  GUELDER  ROSE. 
Hydrangea  Hortensis. 

Hydrangea,  L.  from  the  Greek  v?«i,  water,  and  «yy««ov, 
a  vessel;  in  allusion  to  the  pitcher-like  shape  of  the  seed 
vessels. 

The  specific  name  Hortensis,  L.  pertaining  to,  or  grow- 
ing in  gardens. 

A  native  of  the  East — cultivated  in  the  gardens  of  China 
and  Japan,  from  whence  it  was  introduced  into  England,  by 
Sir  Joseph  Banks,  in  1790. 

This  plant  is  nearly  allied  to  Viburnum  and  Sambucus. 
Soon  after  its  introduction  into  England,  it  was  observed  that 
some  of  the  plants  produced  flowers  of  a  fine  blue  colour, 
from  cuttings  taken  from  the  rose  coloured  varieties.  Some 
conjectured  it  was  caused  by  oxyd  of  iron ;  others,  that  it 
originated  from  salt,  or  saltpetre,  being  accidentally  mixed 
in  the  earth.  It  was  also  observed,  that  a  cutting  from  the 
rose  coloured  variety,  that  had  been  planted  in  the  soil  of  the 
heathy  common,  mixed  with  a  portion  of  turf  ashes,  produced 
blue  flowers.  The  owner  of  this  plant,  a  poor  cottage- 
woman,  refused  ten  guineas  for  it,  being  unwilling  to  part 
with  a  plant  that  had  been  reared  by  a  child  whom  she  had 
lost;  but  she  gladly  sold  cuttings  from  it,  all  of  which  pro- 
duced flowers  of  the  original  rose  colour,  having  been  planted 
in  common  garden  soil. 

In  our  own  country,  the  rose-coloured  Hydranger  has 
been  made  to  bear  blue  flowers,  when  fed  with  marsh  mud, 
as  has  been  tested  a  few  miles  below  Annapolis,  on  Back- 
river. 

We  find  this  flower  made  emblematical  of  a  boaster, 
whose  vaunting  words  resemble  the  abortive  flowers — large 
and  showy,  without  being  followed  by  suitable  results. 

Flowers  in  clusters,  terminal,  of  a  beautiful  rose-colour, 
inodorous,  green  when  young,  as  well  as  in  decay.  Corolla 
of  five  petals,  equal,  roundish,  larger  than  the  calyx,  which 
is  of  one  leaf,  superior,  five-toothed,  small.  Leaves  elliptical, 
serrated,  very  smooth,  veiny,  curved  backwards.  Root 
fibrous,  much  branched,  whitish.  Stems  erect,  shrubby. 
Branches  opposite,  leafy,  green,  speckled  with  dark  purple 
spots,  flowering  at  the  top. 


JASMINE,  WHITE. 
Jasminum  Ojfficinale. 

Jasminum,  L.  from  the  Greek  laa-/**,  a  fragrant  ointment, 
or  perfume,  alluding  to  the  sweet  scent  of  the  flowers. 

Jasminum,  a  genus  containing  plants  of  the  hardy  and 
tender,  deciduous,  and  evergreen,  shrubby  kinds:  rarely 
double,  with  varieties  of  white,  or  yellow  flowers.  Our  com- 
mon white  Jasmine,  is  a  native  of  the  East,  hardy,  but  not 
evergreen. 


Jasmines,  some  like  silver  spray, 
Some  like  gold  in  the  morning  ray; 
Fragrant  stars,  and  favourites  they. 


Indian  Bride. 
Garland  of  Flora. 


The  Jassamine,  with  which  the  queen  of  flowers, 
To  charm  her  God,  adorns  his  favourite  bowers; 
Which  brides,  by  the  plain  hand  of  neatness  drest, 
Unenvied  rival!  wear.  Churchill. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  a  perianth  of  one  leaf, 
inferior,  tubular,  oblong;  its  margin  five-toothed,  and  erect. 
Corolla  of  one  petal,  salver-shaped;  its  segments  from  five  to 
eight. 

CAROLINA  YELLOW  JASMINE. 

Bignonia. 

Bignonia — The  flowers  of  this  genus  so  named  by 
Tournefort,  in  honour  of  the  Jlbbe  Bignon. 

Jerome  Bignon  was  born  at  Paris,  in  1590.  He  was 
esteemed  a  prodigy  of  literature.  About  the  age  of  ten,  while 
acting  as  page  to  the  young  Prince  of  Conde,  he  published 
"  A  description  of  the  Holy  Land,"  which  was  esteemed  to 
be  more  accurate  than  any  then  extant.  And,  at  the  age  of 
fourteen,  composed,  for  the  use  of  the  young  Duke  of  Ven- 
dome,  a  "  Treatise  on  Roman  Antiquities."  These  works 
were  mere  compilations;  but  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  he  also 
composed  an  original  work,  entitled  "  Election  of  the  Popes," 
which  displayed  a  degree  of  erudition,  that  surprised  the  most 
learned  men  of  the  age.  By  Henry  IV.  he  was  appointed 
page  of  honour  to  the  Dauphin,  afterwards  Louis  XIII.  Upon 
the  death  of  Henry,  he  withdrew  from  Court,  but  continued 
to  write,  and  to  publish  several  works  of  celebrity. 

Cardinal  Richelieu,  although  not  his  friend,  appointed 
him  Royal  Librarian.  Queen  Anna  of  Austria,  during  her 
regency,  availed  herself  of  his  advice  on  many  interesting  oc- 
casions; and  he  was  employed  in  various  delicate  negotiations. 
He  died  at  the  age  of  sixty-seven;  having  maintained,  through 
life,  a  character  universally  respected  and  esteemed  for  his 
piety,  and  useful  services  to  his  country. 

Bignonia,  Trumpet-flower;  or,  Scarlet  Jasmine.  Big- 
nonias  are  trees,  or  shrubs,  inhabitants  of  the  hot  climates 
of  the  East  and  West  Indies,  and  eminently  beautiful. 
Flowers  in  panicles,  large  and  handsome,  of  various  colours, 
red,  blue,  yellow,  or  white.  Rees'  Encyclopedia. 

The  common  Catalpa,  Bignonia  Catalpa,  is  a  beautiful 
tree  of  this  genus,  indigenous  to  South  Carolina,  Sec.  Catalpa 
is  an  Indian  name.  The  seeds  of  this  tree  are  said  to  be 


fatal  to  poultry.  Honey-bees  do  not  feed  on  the  nectar  of 
these  flowers. 

Rees  tells  us  that  Bignonia  Sempervirens,  C.  Yellow 
Jasmine,  does  not  belong  to  this  genus,  according  to  JVfar- 
tyn,  but  to  that  of  llsanthus.  Upon  examination,  lisanthus 
is  found  to  be  of  the  class  and  order  Pentandria  JWonogy- 
nia:  Natural  order  Rotacese  Linn.  Gcntianse  Juss. 

The  Carolina  Yellow  Jasmine,  Bignonia  Sempervi- 
rens, grows,  naturally,  in  South  Carolina,  where  it  spreads 
over  the  hedges,  and,  at  the  season  of  flowering,  perfumes  the 
air  to  a  great  distance.  It  is  also  found  in  some  parts  of  Vir- 
ginia— called  Yellow  Jasmine,  probably  from  the  odour  of  its 
flowers.  So  says  Rees. 

Leaves  simple,  lanceolate,  stem  twining;  rising  with 
slender  stalks,  to  a  considerable  height,  with  single  oppo- 
site leaves  at  every  joint,  that  remain  green  throughout  the 
year. 

The  general  character  of  the  flowers  of  the  class  Big- 
nonia, is  a  perianth,  one-leafed,  erect,  cup  form,  five-cleft. 
Corolla  monopetalous,  campanulate;  tube  small,  the  length 
of  the  calyx;  throat  very  long,  ventricose  beneath,  oblong- 
campanulate;  border  five-parted,  the  two  upper  divisions  re- 
flex, lower  patulous;  stamens  four,  two  longer  than  the  other 
two:  pistulum  germ  oblong;  style  filiform,  stigma  capitate. 

ICE  PLANT. 

JVesembryanthemum  Crystallimum. 
•Mesembryanthemum  is  a  vast  genus  of  succulent  plants, 
formerly  known  by  the  name  of  Ficoides,  from  its  affinity  to 
the  Indian  fig,  or  Cactus.  Breynius*  first  named  it  Mesem- 
bryanthemum,  meaning  to  express  its  flowers  expanding  at 
mid -day;  which  is  true  of  many  of  the  species,  but  not  of  all. 
Dillenius,t  therefore,  by  altering  one  letter  in  the  orthography, 
had  recourse  to  another  etymology,  from  J^Iesos,  the  middle; 
embruon,  an  embryo;  and  anthos,  a.  flower — because  the 
embryo  (meaning  the  germen)  is  in  the  middle  of  the  flower. 
He  observes,  that  the  flower  does  not  altogether  stand  on  the 
top  of  the  fruit,  but  is  perforated,  as  it  were,  by  the  latter; 
whilst  it  so  closely  adheres  to  the  middle,  as  not  to  be  se- 
parable from  it  without  laceration.  We  confess  our  predilec- 
tion for  the  original  idea  of  Breynius:  the  refulgent  and  ra- 
diating petals  of  some  of  this  genus,  seem  to  welcome,  as 
well  as  to  emulate,  the  noon-tide  sun,  folding  themselves  up 
as  it  withdraws.  Rees1  Encyclopedia. 

The  Mesembryanthemum,  Cristattinum,  or  Ice  Plant, 

*  All  that  is  said  of  Breynius,  in  Rees'  Encyclopedia,  is,  that  a 
South-sea  plant  was  named  Breynia,  in  commemoration  of  a  father  and 
son  of  the  same  name,  (Jacquin  Breynius,)  both  celebrated  Botanists. 

f  John  James  Dillenius,  one  of  the  most  celebrated  Botanists  of  the 
18th  century;  especially  for  his  knowledge  of  Mosses,  and  their  allies. 
He  was  a  German,  born  at  Darmstadt,  in  1687.  In  1721,  he  was  per- 
suaded to  settle  in  England,  by  William  Sherard,  once  Consul  at  Smyr- 
na; who,  afterwards,  endowed  a  Professorship  of  Botany,  at  Oxford — 
giving,  for  this  purpose,  the  sum  of  13,000.  This  Professorship  was  be- 
stowed upon  Dillenius. 

A  magnificent  East  Indian  genus  of  plants  was,  by  Linnaeus,  named 
Dillenia,  in  honour  of  him  :  "because"  (to  use  Linnaeus' own  words) 
"  it  is  of  all  plants  the  most  distinguished  for  the  beauty  of  its  flower 
and  fruit,  like  Dillenius  among  Botanists." 


is  a  well  known  tender  annual,  much  admired  for  appearing 
as  if  frosted  over,  or  encrusted  with  frozen  dew.  This  ap- 
pearance is  caused  by  innumerable  little  bladders  in  the  cuti- 
cle, filled  with  a  limpid  juice:  to  the  touch  the  whole  herb  is 
cold,  and  remarkably  flaccid.  Its  stem  spreads  widely  on  the 
ground,  bearing  numerous  broad  undulating  leaves,  alternate, 
ovate,  waved,  papillary;  flowers  nearly  sessile,  copious,  of  a 
pale  rose-colour;  fruit  dark  purple. 

JONQUIL. 

Rush-leaved,  or  Common  Jonquil. 

Narcissus  Jonquilla. 

(For  Narcissus,  see  note  on  that  Flower.) 

Jonquil,  E. — Fr.   Jonquille;   It.  giunchiglia,  giunco; 

L.  Juncus,  a  rush,  and  It.  giglio,  a  lily.    It  is  sometimes 

called  the  rush  leaved  daffodil.  Webster. 

The  Jonquil  is  distinguished  from  the  other  species  of 
Narcissus,  by  its  rush-like  foliage,  and  hence  its  name, 
which  is  derived  from  juncus,  rushy.  Gerard,  and  old 
writers,  call  it  "  the  rush  Daffodil,"  and  Narcissus  Junci- 
folius. 

The  Rush-leaved  Jonquil,  is  a  favourite  species,  gene- 
rally cultivated  in  a  single  and  double  state,  for  the  sake  of 
its  rich  and  powerful  perfume.  It  is  said  to  be  a  native  of 
Spain.  Its  narrow  rushy  leaves,  at  once  distinguish  it  from 
the  other  varieties  of  Narcissus.  The  Flowers  are  of  a  gol- 
den yellow,  scarcely  more  than  half  the  size  of  N.  Poeticus, 
whose  form  they  most  resemble;  the  cup  being  very  short  and 
crenate,  or  notched,  and  the  petals  elliptical,  spreading  wide- 
ly their  sides  somewhat  deflexed,  or  bent  downwards.  The 
number  of  flowers  is  from  three  to  six,  and  they  droop,  in 
some  degree,  though  less  than  the  nodding  Jonquil  or  N. 
nutans. 

IRIS. 

Iris,  so  named  from  the  various,  and  somewhat  concen- 
tric hues  of  the  flower,  which  give  an  idea  of  the  rainbow. 
The  modern  Greeks  call  it  xfivov,  a  lily — the  French  Lis  or 
Fleur-de-lis. 

We  are,  also,  told  that  the  ancients  named  this  plant 
after  Iris,  the  messenger  of  the  gods,  and  more  particularly 
of  Juno.  She  is  represented  with  wings  variegated  with  all 
the  beautiful  colours  of  the  rainbow,  sitting  behind  her  mis- 
tress, ready  to  execute  her  commands. 

"  The  various  Iris  Juno  sends  with  haste."  Ovid. 

She  is,  likewise  described  as  supplying  the  clouds  with 
water  to  deluge  the  world. 


Then  clad  in  colours  of  a  various  die, 
Junonian  Iris  breeds  a  new  supply 
To  feed  the  clouds. 


Dryden's  Ovid. 


The  genus  Iris,  contains  plants  of  the  fibrous,  tuberous, 
and  bulbous-rooted,  flowery,  herbaceous,  perennial  kinds. 
With  flowers  of  every  colour.  The  Calyx,  a  spathe  of  two 
valves,  separating  the  flowers,  permanent.  Corolla,  in  six 


deep  segments,  united  into  a  tube  by  their  narrow  base; 
the  three  outermost  reflected,  the  three  inner,  erect,  and  most 
acute. 

Nor  Iris,  with  her  glorious  rainbow  clothed, 
So  fulgent,  as  the  cheerful  gardens  shine, 
With  their  bright  offspring,  when  they're  in  their  bloom. 

ColumeUa. 

The  Iris  claims  connexion  with  the  lilies,  and  often 
passes  under  their  name,  notwithstanding  botanical  laws. — 
The  blue  Iris  of  Persia,  is  the  most  fragrant. 

About  the  middle  of  the  12th  century,  Louis  the  7th  of 
France,  when  about  to  undertake  the  second  crusade,  chose 
the  Iris  flower  for  his  blazon.  It  was,  hence,  called  Fleur 
de  Louis,  Louis'  flower,  and  afterwards  contracted  to  Fleur 
de  Luce,  and  again  into  Fleur-de-lis,  or  lily  flower,  although 
it  has  no  affinity  to  the  lily. 

The  number  of  Fleur-de-lis,  used  in  emblazoning  the 
arms  of  France,  were  reduced  to  three,  in  the  reign  of 
Charles  the  6th,  about  the  year  1381. 

IVY. 

Hedera. 

Ivy,  E. — Saxon,  \fig;  German,  epheuj  a  parasitic  plant 
of  the  genus  Hedera.  Webster. 

Hedera,  according  to  some  etymologists  derived  from 
Hzedus,  a  kid,  because  it  was  given  to  goats  by  the  ancients.* 
We  are  also  told  that  it  is  called  in  the  Greek  Hissos,  from 
Cissos  a  favourite  of  Bacchus,  whom  poets  fable  to  have  been 
transformed  into  this  plant,  and  hence  it  became  sacred  to 
that  God,  who  is  represented  crowned  with  Vine,  and  Ivy 
leaves.  In  Egypt  it  was  consecrated  to  Osiris,  which  some 
say  is  another  name  for  Bacchus. 

The  Ivy  formed  the  crown  of  the  Roman  Poets.  In 
modern  times,  woman's  love,  constancy,  dependence,  &.C., 
have  been  expressed  by  it. 

The  Hedera  helix,  common  European  Ivy ,  is  that  so 
celebrated  for  its  picturesque  effect  upon  old  buildings,  trees, 
8tc.,  to  which  it  attaches  itself  by  short  fibres.  The  whole 
plant  has  a  peculiar  aromatic  flavour.  The  evergreen  leaves, 
dark,  with  white  veins,  upper  ones,  ovate,  lower,  five-lobed, 
all  standing  on  foot-stalks.  Flowers  green,  of  many  umbels, 
forming  a  corymbus.  Calyx  very  small  perianth,  five  tooth- 
ed. Petals  five,  dilated  at  the  base,  their  tops  incurved. 
Berries  globular,  black,  mealy  within. 

A  jolly 

Verse,  crown'd  with  ivy  and  holly, 
That  tells  of  winter's  tales  and  mirth, 
That  milk-maids  make  about  the  hearth. 

Robt.  Herrick. 

LABURNUM. 

Cytisus  Laburnum. 

Cytisus,  a  shrub  said  by  Pliny,  to  be  found  in  the  island 
of  Cythnus,  one  of  the  Cyclades,  whence  its  name. 

Jlinsworth. 

*The  reason  given  why  the  Corf  was  sacrificed  to  Bacchus,  was  on  ..^ 

account  of  the  great  propensity  of  that  animal  to  destroy  thp..f%8.- 

"'•  "i  ,s  •     *" 


Laburnum,  probably  from  Laborenum,  fertile  grounds 
in  Italy,  between  Puteoli  and  Cumse,  in  the  road  to  Capua. 

The  lexicographers  give  me  no  aid  in  the  etymology  of 
this  word. 

The  C.  Laburnum  is  a  native  of  Austria,  Switzerland, 
&c.  Its  wood  is  hard  and  valuable.  Hares  and  rabbits  are 
particularly  fond  of  its  leaves  and  bark;  but  its  seeds  are 
said  to  be  bitter  and  poisonous.  The  flowers  yellow,  papili- 
onaceous; calyx  one-leafed,  bell  shaped,  two  lipped;  leaves 
ternate;  stem  shrubby  and  thornless. 

There  are  several  species  of  Cytisus — one  with  purple 
flowers,  C.  Purpureus,  an  elegant  Austrian  species,  now 
much  cultivated:  another,  resembling  the  weeping  Willow, 
in  its  drooping  boughs,  &tc. 

"  When  the  dark-leafed  Laburnum's  drooping  clusters, 
Reflect,  athwart  the  stream,  their  yellow  lustres." 

Cowper. 

And  the  Laburnum,  with  its  golden  strings, 

Waving  in  the  wind.  Southey. 

The  pale  Laburnum  graced  with  yellow  plumes. 

•Anon. 

LADY'S  SLIPPER. 

Cypripedium. 

Cypripedium  L.  from  the  Greek  XUTT{<;,  Venus,  and 
•roJiov,  a  shoe. 

It  is  the  most  magnificent  and  admired  genus  of  the  Or- 
chis family,  and  distinguished  from  all  the  rest  by  being  truly 
diandrous,  (two  stamens  only  in  the  same  flower  with  the 
pistil)  as  well  as  by  its  inflated  bladder-like  lip. 

There  is  only  one  species  native  of  England — the  C. 
Calceolus — several  of  Siberia.  Eight  species  have  been  enu- 
merated by  Swartz.  The  C.  Spectabile,  C.  Parviflorum, 
C.  Jlcaule,  are  the  three  assigned  to  North  America,  in  Rees' 
Encyclopedia. 

In  the  neighbourhood  of  Baltimore,  (Md.)  may  be  found 
the  C.  Pubescens,  Vulgo,  Noah's  Ark,  Yellow  Mocasin  flow- 
er; and  the  C.  Humile,  Synon,  C.  Acaule,  Vulgo,  Purple 
Mocas  in  flower,  Lady's  slipper. 

The  Candidum  is  assigned  to  Pennsylvania:  the  Par- 
viflorum to  Virginia:  the  Spectabile  to  Canada:  the  Pubes- 
cens and  Calceolus  are  supposed,  by  Dr.  W.  Darlington,  to 
be  the  same. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  a  calyx  two-leafed, 
spreading,  one  of  which  is  erect,  the  other  dependent;  the 
latter  often  cloven.  Petals  two,  alternate,  with  the  calyx 
declining,  often  twisted;  lip  large,  inflated,  hollow.  Fila- 
ments two,  very  short,  inserted  into  the  style,  under  two  op- 
posite lobes.  Colour  of  the  flower  various— purple,  pink, 
yellow,  &tc. 

INDIAN  LAGERSTR.ZEMIA. 

Lagerstrsemia,  so  called  by  Linnaeus  in  commemora- 
tion of  his  friend  Magnus  Lagerstraem,  a  director  of  the  Swe- 
dish East  India  Company,  member  of  the  Royal  Societies  of 
n,  who  communicated  to  him  many  natu- 


ral  productions,  and  some  other  curiosities.  Amongst  these 
was  an  exqusitely  carved  horn  of  a  Rhinoceros,  which  repre- 
sents a  leaf  of  the  Cyamus  Nelumbo,  accompanied  by  the 
flower  and  fruit  in  a  smaller  size. 

The  Cyamus  Nelumbo,  native  of  the  East  Indies,  Co- 
chin-China,  &tc.  In  many  parts  of  which  it  is  esteemed  a 
sacred  plant,  and  makes  a  conspicuous  figure  in  their  mytho- 
logy, as  the  symbol  of  fertility.  Herodotus  gives  both  it  and 
the  Lotos  the  common  denomination  of  lily,  a  term  which 
appears  to  have  been  applied  by  the  Greeks  to  various  plants 
with  large  specious  flowers.  It  appears,  also,  to  have  been 
an  Egyptian  plant:  their  sculptures  and  mosaics,  which  are 
still  preserved,  testify  that  it,  as  well  as  the  Lotos,  has  ob- 
tained religious  reverence. 

The  exotic  C.  Nelumbo,  was  generally  called  the  Egyp- 
tian bean,  and  is  expressly  said,  by  Strabo,  to  be  so  called, 
because  in  its  fruit  it  resembles  the  Grecian  bean,  differing 
only  in  size  and  taste.  According  to  Dioscorides,  it  was 
sometimes  called  the  Pontic  bean;  and  is  said  to  be  not  only 
of  Egypt,  but  also  of  Asia  Proper  and  Silicia. 

Dr.  Smith  conjectured  that  it  was  the  real  mystical  bean 
of  Pythagoras,  concerning  the  prohibition  of  which,  to  his 
followers,  so  much  has  been  written,  and  so  little  determined. 
It  is  supposed  that  this  celebrated  philosopher  imbibed  the 
notion  of  its  sacred  character  during  his  travels:  and  as  it  did 
not  grow  in  his  own  country,  he  took  a  substitute  for  it — a 
common  seed  resembling  it,  which  the  common  horse  bean 
does  very  nearly.  [See  Rees'  Cyclopedia.] 

This  digression  will,  I  hope  be  excused. 

To  return  to  the  Lager strxmia:  The  shrub  is  about  the 
size  of  a  pomegranite-tree,  rather  straggling,  smooth,  with 
angular  twigs.  Leaves  opposite  or  alternate,  nearly  sessile, 
of  an  elliptical  form,  slightly  pointed,  entire,  finely  dotted. 
Flowers  in  a  large  terminal,  of  a  fine  rose-colour,  not  unlike 
a  double  stock,  but  far  more  delicate,  and  without  scent. 
The  petals  heart-shaped,  pointed,  excessively  crumpled  and 
curled,  with  long  slender  claws,  \ftnthers  yellow;  called, 
by  some,  the  fringed  rose. 

LARKSPUR. 

Delphinium. 

The  Asxcpiviov  of  the  ancient  Greeks,  "because,"  says 
Dioscorides,  "the  slender  segments  of  its  leaves  resemble 
Dolphins."  The  resemblance  rather  to  be  found,  according 
to  the  vulgar  ideas  of  that  fish,  between  the  curvature  of  its 
body,  and  the  horned  nectary  of  the  flower.  Delphin,  being 
both  the  Latin  and  Greek  for  a  Dolphin. 

The  flower-buds,  before  they  are  expanded,  are  thought 
to  resemble  the  Dolphin.  In  the  natural  single  state  of  this 
flower,  the  outer  petals  form  a  kind  of  horn-shaped  nectary, 
at  the  back  of  the  corolla,  which  is  similar  to  the  spur  of  the 
LarK's-foot — hence  the  name  of  Larkspur. 

Flora  Historica. 

The  Delphinium,  although  it  loses  its  spur  by  the  in- 
crease of  its  petals,  yet  retains  an  advantage  over  the  double 
stock,  and  many  other  double  flowers,  by  retaining  its  anthers 
and  stigmas,  and  consequently  produces  seed;  but  this  seed, 
if  suffered  to  sow  itself  in  the  Autumn,  generally  returnsito., 


its  natural  single  state;  whilst  the  seed,  sown  later  in  the 
season,  or  in  the  Spring,  produces  double  flowers. 

The  Delphinium  is  annual,  perennial,  and  biennial :  na- 
tives of  the  South  of  Europe,  Siberia,  America,  Sec.  It  is 
without  a  calyx;  petals  five,  the  upper  one  spurred;  nectary 
cloven,  with  a  posterior  spur.  Leaves,  the  lower  are  digi- 
tate, or  palmate;  the  upper,  sometimes,  undivided.  Flowers 
loosely  spiked,  or  panicled,  various  in  colour. 

LAUREL. 

Ivy  Tree  of  America.     Calico  Bush. 
Kalmia. 

Kalmia — a  genus  so  named  by  Linnaeus,  in  honour  of 
his  friend  and  pupil,  Peter  Kalm,  D.  D.,  Professor  of  Eco- 
nomy at  the  University  of  Abo.  He  spent  several  years  in 
North  America,  exploring  whatever  was  worthy  of  observa- 
tion: and  on  his  return,  cultivated  a  botanical  garden,  at  his 
own  expense,  for  the  use  of  the  Academy  of  Science,  at  Abo, 
although  straitened  in  his  circumstances. 

Laurel  E.— Sp.  Laurel.  Fr.  Laurier.  It.  Lauro.  Lat. 
Laurus.  Law  coincides  in  elements  with  fiower,  fioreo. 
Floreo,  to  flourish,  to  bear  flowers,  to  blossom. 

There  are  many  species  of  the  Kalmia,  indigenous  in 
North  America.  The  whole  genus  is  remarkable  for  its  ele- 
gant flowers  and  foliage;  decorating  the  sides  of  hills,  and 
sometimes  found  in  the  woods. 

The  narrow-leaved  Laurel,  K.  Jlngustifolia,  a  shrub 
of  from  two  to  six  feet  high,  produces  the  most  brilliant  cup- 
shaped  flowers,  in  loose  lateral  bunches,  and  in  the  greatest 
abundance,  of  a  bright  red  colour,  when  they  first  open ;  but 
afterwards  fading  to  a  blush  or  peach  colour,  beautifully  va- 
riegated with  crimson.  Leaves  of  a  shining  green  above, 
paler  beneath,  lanceolate,  on  short  foot-stalks,  placed  with- 
out order.  All  the  species  are  said  to  be  poisonous  to  sheep 
and  cattle. 

The  broad-leaved  Laurel,  K.  Latifolia,  rises  to  the 
height  of  from  ten  to  twelve  feet.  Blossoms  like  the  first. 

K.  Hirsuta,  or  Hairy-leaved  Kalmia,  has  purplish  flow- 
ers: native  of  South  Carolina,  in  swampy  soil. 

LAURUSTINUS. 

Viburnum  Tinus. 

Viburnum — reckoned  by  Linnaeus  among  the  Latin 
names  whose  origin  cannot  be  ascertained.  It  is  traced  by 
Ainsworth,  Vaillant,  and  Martyn,  to  the  verb  vieo,  to  bind. 

Tinus — a  kind  of  Bay  tree,  a  Laurustinus. 

•Ainsworth. 

Laurustinus — an  evergreen  shrub,  which  flowers  about 
Michaelmas,  and  holds  its  flower  through  the  winter. 

Johnson. 

Rees  tells  us  that  it  is  a  compound  word,  meaning  Lau- 
rus, which  is  called  Tinus;  and  Ovid  teaches  us  that  the  first 
syllable  of  Tinus  is  long:  "  Et  bicolor  myrtus,  et  baccis  cae- 
rula  Tinus." 

Tinus  is  a  name  given  in  Pliny,  B.  15,  chap.  30,  for 
what  he  says  is  sometimes  termed  a  sort  of  Wild  Laurel,  and 
is  distinguished  by  the  blue  colour  of  its  berries.  This  de- 
scription is  universally  agreed  to  apply  to  our  Laurustinus,  or 
Viburnum  Tinus  of  Linnaeus.  [See  .Rees.] 


Varieties  of  this  genus  are  to  be  found  in  Japan,  Mexico, 
&.c.  Several  species,  with  white  flowers,  are  scattered  all 
over  the  United  States. 

The  common  Laurustinus  of  our  green-houses,  is  a  na- 
tive of  Spain,  Portugal,  and  Italy.  A  shrub  never  above  five 
feet  high,  spreading  widely,  twigs  smooth,  dark  red ;  leaves 
ovate,  entire,  dark  green  above,  veiny,  with  glandular  hairs 
at  the  origin  of  each  large  vein;  flowers  tinged  with  red,  of 
one  petal,  bell-shaped,  cut  halfway  down;  berries  blue. 

LAVENDER. 

Lavandula. 

Lavandula,  from  the  Latin  word  lavo,  to  wash,  or  be- 
sprinkle, alluding  to  its  ancient  use  in  baths,  or  fomentations; 
or  to  its  distilled  water,  in  more  modern  times. 

A  genus  known  and  esteemed  in  our  gardens  and  green- 
houses. All  are  shrubby,  with  blue  or  purplish,  occasionally 
white,  fragrant,  spiked  flowers.  Their  foliage  likewise  aro- 
matic, generally  of  a  grey,  or  hoary-green,  narrow,  either 
simple  or  compound.  The  spike  is  supported  on  a  longish, 
naked,  square  stalk.  Perianth  of  one  leaf;  corolla  monope- 
talous,  ringent,  reversed:  native  of  Africa,  Europe,  Sic. 

The  common  Lavender,  L.  Spica,  cultivated  for  the 
sake  of  its  scent,  when  dried;  and  the  essential  oil  and  distil- 
led water  which  is  made  from  it.  To  be  "  laid  up  in  Laven- 
der," is  become  proverbial  for  any  thing  stored  up  with  pe- 
culiar care. 

LEMON. 
Citrus  Limon. 
Citrus,  derivation  unknown.  (Bees'  Cyclopedia.) 

Citrus,  a  citron-tree,  growing  upon  Mount  Atlas,  in 
Africa,  of  the  wood  of  which  they  made  tables  at  Rome. 
Also,  another  sort  which  bore  fruit  of  an  excellent  grateful 
smell.  Jl  lemon  or  orange  tree,  a  pome-citrul,  Plin. 

[See  JHnsworth.~\ 

Skinner  tells  ue,  the  word  citron  is  like  the  thing  itself; 
of  Persian  or  Moorish  origin. 

In  Lemon's  English  etymology  we  find  "  Citron,  Greek, 
XIT^IOV,  a  citron  apple,  a  fruit  brought  from  Media."  And  in 
the  same  book,  under  the  word  Lemon,  we  are  told  that  "  Ju- 
nius  supposes,  with  great  justness,  that  it  ought  to  be  written 
limon:  and,  after  quoting  the  word  in  several  languages,  in 
which  it  appears  always  limon,  he  says,  they  suppose  it  to  be 
from  the  Greek  word  \i^os,  hunger,  because  it  sharpens 
hunger." 

"  Lemon,  from  the  French  gallic  limon — Italian  limone 
— Lemone,  perhaps  all  from  the  Greek  K>^KV}  a  meadow,  a 
garden,  as  if  it  were  said  the  ornament  of  the  garden." 

[See  Skinner.] 

The  genus  citrus  comprehends  plants  of  the  citron,  le- 
mon, and  orange-tree  kinds. 

The  common  Lemon,  Citrus  limon,  and  lime,  C.  Jlcris, 
are,  by  botanists,  referred  to  one  species.  They,  as  well  as 
the  orange,  are  natives  of  the  East,  now  naturalized  in  all 
warm  climates. 

The  lime  is  said  to  grow  to  the  height  of  from  twelve 
to  fourteen  feet.  Its  fruit  is  esteemed  a  much  more  grateful 
acid  than  that  of  the  lemon;  and  in  the  West  Indies,  where 


they  are  most  cultivated,  the  lemon  is  in  little  repute,  and 
seldom  used.  From  the  varieties  of  the  lime,  the  powerful 
perfume  called  Bergamot,  is  obtained;  which  is  said  to  have 
derived  its  name  from  Bergamo,  in  Italy. 

The  flowers  of  the  genus  citrus,  have  a  one-leafed,  five- 
cleft  calyx,  small  and  withering;  petals  five,  oblong,  and 
spreading.  The  leaf  of  the  lemon  is  ovate-lanceolate,  acu- 
minate, somewhat  serrated. 

LICHEN;  or,  TREE  MOSS. 

Lichen,  a  name  borrowed  by  the  Romans  from  the 
Greeks,  for  the  disease  called  the  tetter,  or  ringworm,  and 
applied  to  some  plants  of  a  mossy  nature. 

They  are  fleshy  or  leather-like  substances  growing  on 
rocks,  trees,  and  old  buildings:  the  most  common  species 
may  be  observed  in  the  form  of  a  rough  yellow  and  bluish 
crust,  on  gooseberry  bushes,  and  old  palings,  to  which  they 
impart  a  picturesque  appearance. 

They  are  called  Rock  moss,  or  Tree  moss;  some  of  the 
Liver-worts  are  of  this  order. 

They,  also,  include  the  Iceland  moss,  now  much  used  in 
medicine;  and  the  Reindeer  moss,  of  Lapland,  which  grows 
to  the  height  of  a  foot,  and  is  the  principal  food  of  the  noble 
animal  whose  name  it  bears.  But  they  are  entirely  distinct 
from  the  true  mosses,  (Musci.) 

Where  frowning  Snowden  bends  his  dizzy  brow 
O'er  Conway,  listening  to  the  surge  below; 
Retiring  Lichen  climbs  the  topmost  stone, 
And  drinks  the  aerial  solitude  alone — 

Bright  shine  the  stars,  unnumber'd,  o'er  her  head, 
And  the  cold  moon-beam  gilds  her  flinty  bed; 
While,  round  the  rifted  rocks,  hoarse  whirlwinds  breathe, 
And  dark  with  thunder  sail  the  clouds  beneath. — 

Darwin. 

This  plant  is  the  first  that  vegetates  on  naked  rocks  cov- 
ering them  with  a  kind  of  tapestry,  and  draws  its  nourish- 
ment, perhaps  chiefly  from  the  air.  Darwin. 

The  Lichen  which  grows  on  the  bark  of  the  White  Oak 
tree  is,  in  medical  books,  called  lung-icort,  as  it  is  there 
said — from  its  resemblance  to  the  lungs, — or  rather,  perhaps, 
from  its  being  used  in  diseases  of  the  lungs.  It  is  said  to  pos- 
sess the  same  qualities  as  the  Iceland  moss,  so  celebrated  in 
the  cure  of  pulmonary  consumption. 

LILAC. 

Syringa. 

Lilac,  of  Turkish  origin.     French  lilas — Sp.  lilac. 

Syringa,  so  called  by  Linnaeus,  from  o-uen-yj,  <ru?«vyj'0{, 
Greek  for  a  pipe,  on  account  of  the  use  which  the  Turks 
make  of  its  straight  and  tubular  branches,  when  deprived  of 
the  pith,  for  tobacco  pipes. 

"  It  is  called  in  Barbary  Seringa.  It  may  well  be  ima- 
gined that  this  African  word  came  from  the  Greek;  and  ori- 
ginated in  the  resemblance  of  the  branches  to  a  reed.  We 
have  no  doubt  that  Linnseus  had  both  words  in  view." 

The  name  may  possibly  owe  its  origin  to  the  nymph  Sy- 


rinx,  fabled  to  have  been  transformed  into  reeds;  from  which 
her  admirer  formed  the  famous  instrument  called  Syrinx,  or 
Pan's  Pipes. 

The  Philadelphia  of  Linnxus,  and  others,  now  com- 
monly called  Syringa,  in  the  gardens,  is  confounded  in  its 
nomenclature  and  history,  with  the  above,  its  branches  being 
capable  of  serving  the  same  purposes. 

The  Syringa  Vulgaris,  or  common  garden  Lilac,  has 
usually  purple  flowers,  but  there  is  a  beautiful  white  variety. 

The  Persian  Lilac,  S.  Persica,  is  a  shrub  of  a  slender 
habit,  growing  only  to  the  height  of  four  or  five  feet.  The 
jftowers  are  larger  than  those  of  the  common  lilac,  and  equal- 
ly fragrant;  but  fewer  in  each  panicle,  and  less  crowded. 
The  flowers  purple,  or  white;  the  white  peculiarly  brilliant 
and  elegant. 

The  common  Lilac  is,  also,  a  native  of  Persia.  The 
Turks  appear  to  have  long  cultivated  it,  and  its  common 
English  name  is  derived  from  them;  belonging,  also,  in  their 
language,  to  the  privet.  It  was  introduced  into  England 
about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century,  from  Constanti- 
nople. 

There  is,  also,  a  Chinese  variety,  now  cultivated,  but 
more  rare,  the  S.  Chinensis,  of  humble  stature,  generally 
taken  for  a  broad-leafed  variety  of  the  S.  Persica. 

The  Lilac,  various  in  array,  now  white, 
Now  sanguine,  and  her  beauteous  head  now  set 
With  purple  spikes  pyramidal,  as  if  studious  of  orna- 
ment, 

Yet  unresolved  which  hues  she  most  approved, 
She  chose  them  all.  Cotcpcr. 

O,  were  my  love  yon  Lilach  fair, 

Wi'  purple  blossoms  to  the  spring; 
And  I  a  bird  to  shelter  there, 

When  wearied  on  my  little  wing!  Burns. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  a  permanent  ealyx,  small 
tubular,  bordered  with  four  erect  teeth.  Corolla  of  one  pe- 
tal, funnel-shaped;  tube  cylindrical,  several  times  longer  than 
the  calyx;  limb  in  four  deep  elliptic,  oblong,  spreading  seg- 
ments. 

LILY. 

IMium  Candidwn. 

LUium,  appears  to  be  a  name  of  rather  obscure  origin; 
(says  the  Encyclopedia)  deduced  by  some  from  the  Greek 
x£.?.ov  a  Lily,  derived  from  /uio5,  smooth,  not  rough,  also 
handsome,  because  the  plant  is  conspicuous  for  the  beauty 
of  its  flowers.  It  has  moreover  been  called  xfivav,  from 
XJITOV,  the  Greek  for  dust,  or  pollen — because,  the  flowers 
seem  in  general  to  be  sprinkled  with  a  powdery  substance, 
from  the  abundance  of  their  pollen. 

Ainsworth  derives  Lilium  from  the  Greek  \ti?iov3  or 
A.I«<OV,  definition,  a  lily.  Lilium  is  adopted  from  Pliny,  and 
other  Latin  authors. 

Candidum,  from  candido,  (L.)  to  bleach,  to  make 
white.  L.  Candidum,  is  said  to  be  indisputably  a  native  of 
the  Holv  Land. 


In  Heathen  Mythology,  the  Lily  is  said  to  have  been 
originally  of  the  colour  of  crocus,  but  Juno  having  dropped 
some  milk  upon  the  earth,  changed  the  colour  from  purple  to 
white.  It  tells  us,  also,  that  this  flower  was  a  great  favourite 
with  Juno,  and  consecrated  to  her  by  Heathen  nations. 

All  nations  agree  in  making  the  Lily  the  symbol  of  puri 
ty  and  modesty. 

O,  dress  the  Lily  in  its  vest  of  lawn, 
Whiter,  than  foam  upon  the  crested  wave, 
Pure,  as  the  spirit,  parted  from  its  grave, 
When  every  stain  that  earth  had  left  is  gone. 

Percival. 

The  white  Lily  has  leaves  lanceolate,  scattered,  atten- 
uated at  the  base,  numerous,  long,  smooth.  Flowers  large, 
white,  in  a  cluster  at  the  top  of  the  stem.  Corolla  bell-shaped, 
smooth  on  the  inside.  Root  a  large  scaly  bulb,  from  which 
proceeds  many  scaly  fibres. 

The  Yellow  Lily  is  a  native  of  Persia,  whose  chief  city 
was  called  Shusan,  and  one  of  its  provinces  Susiana.  In 
Hebrew  language,  the  name  of  Susanah  signifies  Lily. 

Once,  Emir!  thy  unheeding  child, 
'Mid  all  this  havoc,  bloomed  and  smiled, 
Tranquil,  as  on  some  battle  plain, 
The  Persian's  lily  shines  and  towers; 
Before  the  contest's  reddening  stain, 
Has  fallen  upon  its  golden  flowers. 

JVLoore.      Fire  Worshippers. 

LILY  OF  THE  VALLEY. 

Convallaria. 

Convallaria,  from  the  Latin  word  Convallis,  a  valley, 
or  dale,  enclosed  on  both  sides  with  hills.  Jlinsworth. 

There  are  many  of  the  species  idigenous  in  North  Ame- 
rica. Flowers  generally  white,  or  variegated  with  green. 
A  variety  from  Japan  has  violet  coloured  flowers. 

This  exquisitely  beautiful  monopetalous  flower  is  mo- 
destly concealed  in  the  broad,  bright  green  leaves,  which  sur- 
round its  delicate  and  graceful  bells. 

And  ye,  whose  lowlier  pride, 
In  sweet  seclusion  seems  to  shrink  from  view, 
You  of  the  Valley  nam'd,  no  longer  hide 
Your  blossoms,  meet  to  twine  the  brow  of  purest  bride. 

Barton. 

That  shy  plant — the  lUy  of  the  vale, 
That  loves  the  ground,  and  from  the  sun  withholds 
Her  pensive  beauty,  from  the  breeze  her  sweets. 

Evening's  Excursion.    G.  F. 


The  Lily  whose  sweet  beauties  seem, 
As  if  they  must  be  sought. 


Barton. 


And  sweetest  to  the  view, 
The  lily  of  the  vale,  whose  virgin  flower 
Trembles  at  every  breeze,  beneath  its  leafy  bower. 


Same. 


The  name  of  Lily  has  been  improperly  applied  to  it,  33 
it  has  not  the  least  affinity  with  the  Lily,  either  in  its  root, 
fruit,  or  flower.  Perhaps,  from  the  purity  of  its  white  corol- 
la, as  the  idea  of  delicacy  and  purity  is  attached  to  the  very 
name  of  Lily. 

Flowers  of  Convallaria,  monopetalous,  bell-shaped,  six- 
cleft,  nodding,  sometimes  double:  leaves  large,  elliptical,  rib- 
bed, entire,  acute,  on  long  petioles:  root  perennial. 

LOTOS. 

Lotos,  a  name  which  has  been  more  variously  applied, 
and  of  which,  perhaps,  more  has  been  written  than  of  any 
other  plant.  Those  who  have  sought  for  its  origin,  in  the 
Greek  language,  have  found  nothing  nearer  than  \a,,  the  Greek 
for  to  will,  or  to  desire,  alluding,  as  they  suppose,  to  the  plant 
being  greatly  esteemed.  [Bees'  Cyclopedia.] 

It  has  been  suggested  by  one  who  has  read  this  note, 
that,  from  the  Greek  verb  xw,  there  is  derived  an  adjective, 
whose  superlative  is  x^jo;,  signifying  the  best — which  ac- 
cords with  the  estimate  in  which  the  ancients  held  this  plant} 
and  that,  by  dropping  the  letter  *  in  this  superlative,  for  the 
sake  of  euphony,  which  the  ancients  frequently  did,  we  have 
precisely  the  Greek  name  of  this  plant,  A.MTOS:  a  conjecture 
by  no  means  so  strained  as  many  of  those  in  which  etymolo- 
gists often  indulge. 

Ainsworth  derives  Lotos  and  Lotus,  from  the  nymph 
Lotis,  and  refers  to  Ovid;  who  tells  us,  in  the  story  of  the 
unfortunate  Dryope,  who  was  punished,  by  instant  transfor- 
mation, for  inadvertently  plucking  a  flower  from  the  plant  into 
which  the  nymph  had  been  metamorphosed. 

"  Not  distant  far  a  wat'ry  Lotos  grew; 
The  spring  was  new,  and  all  the  verdant  boughs 
Adorn'd  with  blossoms,  promised  fruits  that  vie. 
In  glowing  colours,  with  the  Tyrian  die. 

*  *  #  * 

Lotis,  the  nymph,  (if  rural  tales  be  true,) 

*  *  *  * 

Forsook  her  form;  and  fixing  here,  became 
A  flow'ry  plant,  which  still  preserves  her  name. 

Pope's  Ovid. 

In  Camoens'  Luciad,  we  find  a  mention  of  the  shrub 
Lotus,  corresponding  with  the  Lotos  of  Ovid,  with  its  fruit 
of  "  Tyrian  die."  The  Lybian  Lotos  is  there  described  as 
"  a  shrub  like  a  bramble;  the  berries  like  the  myrtle,  but  pur- 
ple when  ripe,  and  about  the  bigness  of  an  olive.  Mixed 
with  bread-corn,  it  was  used  as  food  for  slaves:  they,  also, 
made  an  agreeable  wine  of  it,  but  which  would  not  keep  above 
ten  days." 

This  corresponds,  also,  with  the  plant  described  by  Park, 
as  abounding  in  Africa,  particularly  in  sandy  soils.  He  took 
a  drawing  of  a  branch  in  flower;  the  fruit  of  which  was  a  small 
farinaceous  berry,  about  the  size  of  an  olive;  which,  when 
dried,  was  made  into  excellent  cakes,  resembling,  in  colour 
and  flavour,  the  sweet  ginger-bread.  The  natives,  also,  pre- 
pare from  it  a  liquor  delicately  sweet;  the  same,  perhaps, 
which  is  fabled  to  have  produced  such  extraordinary  effects 
on  the  companions  of  Ulysses. 


Though  some  have  conjectured  that  the  Lotus  Glycyca- 
lamus  of  the  ancients,  and  that  which  is  mentioned  by  Homer, 
is  our  sugar-cane. 

"Not  prone  to  ill,  nor  strange  to  foreign  guest, 
They  eat,  they  drink,  and  nature  gives  the  feast; 
The  trees  around  them  all  their  fruit  produce; 
Lotos  the  name;  divine  nectarious  juice; 
(Thence  call'd  Lotophagi)  which  whoso  tastes, 
Insatiate,  riots  in  the  sweet  repasts, 
Not  other  home,  nor  other  care  intends, 
But  quits  his  house,  his  country  and  his  friends: 
The  three  we  sent,  from  off  th'  enchanting  ground, 
We  dragg'd  reluctant,  and  by  force  we  bound, 
The  rest,  in  haste,  forsook  the  pleasing  shore, 
Or,  the  charm  tasted,  had  return'd  no  more." 

Pope's  Odyssey. 

The  definition  of  Lotos  in  the  Greek  Lexicon,  is  this: 
"  A  tree  whose  fruit  is  so  sweet,  that  foreigners,  having  tasted 
of  it,  forget  their  own  country — whence  the  proverb  to  have 
eaten  of  the  Lotus,  is  applied  to  those  who  prefer  a  foreign 
country  to  their  own." 

There  was  a  neat  proverb  among  the  Romans,  derived 
from  this  fruit — it  was  in  two  words:  "  Lotum  gustavit" — 
that  is,  "  He  has  tasted  the  Lotus."  It  was  applied  to  those 
who  remained  longer  than  was  proper  among  foreign  nations: 
because  the  fruit  of  .the  Lotus  is  so  sweet,  that  strangers,  for 
that  cause,  used  to  stick  to  the  place  where  it  grew,  and  where 
they  have  once  tasted  it.  [See  Pliny,  13th,  17th.] 

In  Herodotus,  we  find  a  description  of  another  species 
of  Lotos,  an  aquatic  plant.  [Book  2d,  Euterpe.'] 

In  speaking  of  the  Egyptians,  who  inhabit  the  marshy 
grounds,  he  says:  "  To  procure  themselves  the  means  of  sus- 
tenance more  easily,  they  make  use  of  the  following  expe- 
dient:— When  the  waters  have  risen  to  their  extremest  height, 
and  all  their  fields  are  overflowed,  there  appears  above  the 
surface,  an  immense  quantity  of  plants  of  the  Lily  species, 
which  the  Egyptians  call  Lotos:  having  cut  down  these,  they 
dry  them  in  the  sun.  The  seed  of  the  flower,  which  resem- 
bles that  of  the  poppy,  they  bake,  and  make  into  a  kind  of 
bread:  they,  also,  eat  the  root  of  the  plant,  which  is  round, 
of  an  agreeable  flavour,  and  about  the  size  of  an  apple.  There 
is  a  second  species  of  the  Lotos,  which  grows  in  the  Nile; 
and  which  is  not  unlike  a- rose.  The  fruit,  which  grows  from 
the  bottom  of  the  root,  is  like  a  wasp's  nest:  it  is  found  to  con- 
tain a  number  of  kernals,  of  the  size  of  an  olive-stone,  which 
are  very  grateful,  either  fresh  or  dried." 

A  note  in  Herodotus  tells  us — "  The  Lotos  is  an  aquatic 
plant  peculiar  to  Egypt,  which  grows  in  rivulets,  and  by  the 
side  of  lakes.  There  are  two  species — the  one,  bearing  a 
white,  the  other  a  blue  flower.  The  root  of  the  first  species 
is  round,  resembling  a  potato,  and  is  eaten  by  the  inhabitants 
who  live  near  the  lake  Menzala."  Savory. 

We  do  not  find  this  aquatic  Lotos  to  be  "  peculiar  to 
Egypt."  It  is  abundant  in  India,  where  it  is  held  in  the  high- 
est veneration.  Among  the  Brahmans,  and  enthusiastic  Hin- 
doos, no  object  in  nature  is  looked  on  with  more  superstition} 
and  their  writings  abound  with  mystical  allusions  to  this  lovely 


plant.  As  an  aquatic,  the  Lotos  is  a  symbol  of  the  Indian 
God  Vishnu,*  he  being  a  personification  of  water,  or  humi- 
dity. Brahma,  the  creative  power,  is  also  sometimes  repre- 
sented as  seated  on  the  Lotos,  and  is  borne  on  its  calyx  in  the 
whimsical  representation  of  the  renovation  of  the  world. 

In  the  northern  parts  of  India,  the  petals  of  the  Lotos 
are  blue,  as  well  as  red  and  white :  while,  in  the  Southern 
provinces,  the  blue  flower  is  not  seen.  The  poets  have 
hence  feigned  that  the  crimson  hue  was  imparted  to  it  by 
the  blood  of  Sivafi  issuing  from  the  wound  made  by  the 
arrow  of  Kama,l  when  the  God  of  Love  daringly  endea- 
voured to  inspire  the  "king  of  dread"  with  an  amorous  pas- 
sion; for  which  presumption,  he  was  reduced  to  ashes:  or,  as 
some  say,  to  a  mental  essence,  by  the  fire  which  issued  from 
the  forehead  of  the  "  three-eyed  God." 

This  aquatic  Lotos,  is  also  held  in  high  veneration  in 
Egypt.  A  fine  bust  of  Isis,  (one  of  their  deities,)  emerging 
from  a  flower  of  the  Lotos,  which  belonged  to  the  late  Mr. 
Townley,  was,  on  its  arrival  in  England,  taken,  without  hesi- 
tation, for  Clytie  changing  into  a  sun-flower;  what  is  meant 
for  the  Lotos,  having  a  great  resemblance  to  the  Helianthus. 
This  error,  very  striking  to  botanists,  was  immediately  cor- 
rected by  the  excellent  Mr.  Dryander,  whose  accuracy  only 
exceeded  his  vast  knowledge.  [See  Rees1  Cyclopedia.] 


*  Vishnu,  in  Hindoo  Mythology,  is  one  of  the  chief  deities  of  the 
trimurti  or  triad.  He  is  reckoned  the  second  person  of  this  mysterious 
Unity,  being  a  personification  of  the  preserving  power,  wisdom,  space, 
the  present,  water. 

Brahma,  the  first  person,  or  creative  power,  matter,  the  past,  earth. 

f  Siva,  the  third  person  in  the  triad,  represents  the  destructive 
energy,  justice,  time,  the  future,  fire. 

J  Kama,  is  the  Hindoo  God  of  Love.  And,  according  to  Sir  Wil- 
liam Jones,  "  appears  evidently  the  same  with  the  Grecian  Eros,  and  the 
Roman  Cupid." 

His  bow  of  Sugar-cane  or  flowers,  with  a  string  formed  of  bees, 
and  his  five  arrows,  each  pointed  with  an  Indian  blossom  of  a  healing 
quality,  are  equally  new  and  beautiful. 

Sir  W.  Jones  has  addressed  a  spirited  hymn  to  this  deity,  in  which 
Vasanta,  (the  personification  of  the  season  Spring)  the  bosom  friend  of 
Kama,  is  represented  as  preparing  the  bow  and  shafts  for  his  mischiev- 
ous friend. 

"  He  bends  the  luscious  cane,  and  twists  the  string 

With  bees ;  how  sweet !  but  ah  !  how  keen  their  sting ! 

He,  with  five  flow'rets,  tips  thy  ruthless  darts, 

Which,  through  five  senses,  pierce  enraptur'd  hearts: 

Strong  Champa  rich  in  odo'rous  gold ; 

Warm  Jlmer,  nurs'd  in  heavenly  mould  ; 

Dry  Nakeser,  in  silver  smiling ; 

Hot  Kitticum  our  sense  beguiling: 

And  last,  to  kindle  fierce  the  scorching  flame, 

Love-shaft,  which  gods,  bright  Beta,  name." 

The  Champa,  or  Champaka,  is  a  polyndria  polygynian  flower,  the 
Micheha  of  European  Botanists;  it  is  of  two  sorts,  white  and  yellow; 
small,  and  in  its  foliage  like  an  expanded  rose-bud,  and  of  a  powerful 
fragrance. 

The  Amer,  is  said  by  some  to  be  the  Mango  flower. 

Dry  Nakeser,  is  a  handsome  flower  with  white  and  yellow  petals. 

The  Bela,  is  a  beautiful  species  of  Jasmine. 


LOVE  IN-A-MIST. 

Nigella  Damascena. 

Nigella,  from  Niger,  black,  in  allusion  to  the  colour  of 
the  seeds. 

There  are  several  species  of  Nigella,  or  fennel  flower. 
Nigella  Damascena,  or  common  Fennel  flower,  Devil  in-a- 
bush,  Love  in-a-puzzle,  etc.,  is  a  native  of  corn-fields  in  the 
South  of  Europe,  a  hardy  annual,  with  double  varieties,  va- 
rying with  white  and  pale-blue  petals.  Flowers  terminal, 
solitary,  encompassed  by  a  circle  of  leaves,  much  like  the 
rest.  Nectaries  five,  alternate  with  the  petals;  their  claw 
purple;  limb  green,  bent  upward  at  a  right  angle,  with  a 
spreading,  purple,  flat,  bluntly  two-lobed,  hairy  under  lip. 
The  petals,  in  the  double  variety,  are  multiplied;  but  nume- 
rous stamens  remain  to  perform  their  office :  leaves  as  finely 
cut  as  those  of  fennel,  but  flat. 

LOVE  LIES-A-BLEEDING. 
Jlmaranthus  Caudatus. 

(See  Amaranth.) 

The  long  pendulous  Amaranth,  with  pink  seeds,  and 
purple-red  flowers,  is  commonly  called  "Love  lies-a-bleed- 
ing." 

Campbell  has  introduced  it  into  his  poem  of  "  O'Con- 
nor's child." 

And  wherefore  dost  thou  love  this  flower 

To  call  " My  love-lies-bleeding?" 
This  purple  flower  my  tears  have  nursed; 

A  hero's  blood  supplied  its  bloom: 
I  love  it,  for  it  was  the  first 

That  grew  on  Connocht-Moran's  tomb. 

*  #  *  # 

And  cherish,  for  my  warrior's  sake, 

The  flower  of  "  Love-lies-bleeding." 

LUPINE. 
Lupinus. 

Lupinus,  so  called  by  Pliny,  and  other  ancient  writers . 
Professor  Martyn  says,  that  the  name  owes  its  origin  to  Lu- 
pus, a  wolf,  because  plants  of  this  genus  ravage  the  ground, 
by  overrunning  it,  after  the  manner  of  that  animal. 

Lupinus  is,  also,  said  to  be  derived  from  the  Greek 
xua-n,  grief,  whence  Virgil's  epithet  "  tristes  lupini" — from 
the  fanciful  idea  of  its  acrid  juices,  which,  tasted,  produced  a 
sorrowful  appearance  in  the  countenance.  Both  of  these 
ideas  are  avowedly  taken  from  Vossius.  R.  Ency. 

Lupine  is  a  kind  of  pulse,  which  was  much  cultivated 
by  the  Romans.  Pliny  recommends  the  white  lupine  as  giv- 
ing a  fresh  colour  and  cheerful  countenance  to  those  who  ate 
them. 

The  eating  of  Lupines  was,  also,  thought  to  brighten 
the  mind,  and  quicken  the  imagination  It  is  related  of 
Protogenus,  a  celebrated  painter  of  Rhodes,  who  flourished 
about  the  year  328  before  Christ,  that,  during  the  seven  years 
he  was  employed  in  painting  the  hunting  piece  of  Jalysus, 
who  is  supposed  to  be  the  founder  of  the  state  of  Rhodes,  he 
lived  entirely  upon  lupines  and  water — with  an  idea  that  this 
aliment  would  give  him  greater  flights  of  fancy. 


The  species  of  this  genus,  most  cultivated  for  their  flow- 
ers, are  the  white,  blue,  yellow,  and  rose-coloured. 

The  calyx  is  of  one  leaf,  cloven;  corolla  papiliona- 
ceous. 

MAGNOLIA. 

A  noble  genus  of  shrubs,  named,  by  Plumier,  in  honour 
of  Peter  Magnol,  Botanical  Professor  at  Montpellier,  where 
he  practised  physic  for  a  long  course  of  years;  and,  at  the 
same  time,  very  assiduously  cultivated  Botany,  not  only  as  an 
auxiliary  to  medicine,  but  with  the  most  enlarged  views  to 
its  advancement  as  a  science  of  itself.  He  was  not  appointed 
to  the  professorship  till  the  year  1694;  being  a  Protestant, 
his  religion  had  been  in  the  way  of  his  promotion.  He  was 
beloved  for  his  urbanity,  and  esteemed  for  his  knowledge; 
and,  previous  to  his  appointment,  as  public  professor,  he  had 
a  botanical  class;  among  whom  were  Fagan  and  the  illustri- 
ous Tournefort.  He  published  several  celebrated  botanical 
works.  In  1708,  he  was  admitted  a  member  of  the  Acade- 
mic des  Sciences  of  Paris,  in  the  place  of  his  distinguished 
friend  Tournefort,  who  died  that  year. 

Among  his  communications  to  this  Academy,  was  an 
easy  method  of  tinging  the  flowers  of  the  Tuberose  with  a 
solution  of  some  kind  of  lake.  He  died  at  the  age  of  77,  in 
the  year  1715. 

The  Magnolia  Grandiflora,  Laurel-leafed  Magnolia, 
is  the  most  magnificent  and  beautiful  evergreen  tree  of  this 
genus.  In  southern  latitudes,  it  rises  to  the  height  of  eighty 
feet,  often  much  loftier;  almost  unobstructed  by  branches, 
and  terminated  by  a  spreading  top  of  the  deepest  perennial 
verdure.  Its  flowers  are  terminal,  solitary,  each  as  large  as 
a  pint  basin;  white,  deliciously  fragrant,  like  the  flavour  of 
cold  lemonade.  The  petals  obovate,  have  the  texture  and 
aspect  of  delicate  white  leather.  The  bark  of  the  root  of 
this  tree  is  also  used  as  a  substitute  for  the  Peruvian  bark — 
according  to  some  of  our  medical  books. 

The  M.  Glauca,  Swamp  Magnolia,  a  small  tree,  with 
large  cream-coloured  flowers,  terminal,  concave,  with  a  rich 
vinous  fragrance.  Calyx  of  three  leaves ;  petals  six  to  twelve, 
obvoate,  The  leaves  are,  also,  beautiful,  about  three  inches 
long,  varying  in  breadth,  veiny,  bright  green  above,  glaucous, 
and  somewhat  silky  beneath.  To  the  North,  deciduous;  in 
the  South,  evergreen. 

This  species  is  said  to  have  been  the  first  of  its  genus 
introduced  into  the  gardens  of  England;  having  been  culti- 
vated by  Bishop  Compton,  at  Fulham,  in  1688. 

There  are  about  fifteen  species  of  this  genus,  almost 
equally  divided  between  China  and  N.  America:  there  is, 
also,  one  species  in  tropical  America.  All  of  them  with  a 
bark  more  or  less  camphorated  and  aromatic. 

The  Cucumber  tree  of  North  America,  Magnolia  Jlcu- 
minata,  is  a  tree  of  a  noble  height  and  beauty:  umbrageous, 
deciduous;  the  wood  yellow.  Leaves  clustered  at  the  end  of 
each  branch;  but,  on  its  subsequent  elongation;  becoming 
alternate,  stalked,  pointed  at  each  end,  several  inches  long, 
and  nearly  half  as  broad;  green  and  smooth  above;  paler, 
and,  at  first,  downy  beneath.  Flowers  neither  fragrant,  nor 
beautiful,  though  remarkable  for  their  pea- green  glaucous 
petals  more  than  six,  which  vary  in  shape,  but  are  always 


concave  or  channelled,  and,  usually,  about  two  inches  long. 
The  cones,  or  seed  vessels,  have  been  advantageously  used 
in  the  Western  States  in  the  form  of  tincture,  in  rheumatic 
complaints.  The  cone  has  very  much  the  form  of  a  cucum- 
ber; and,  when  perfected,  is  of  a  vivid  red  colour. 

Several  species  of  this  genus  are  to  be  found  in  the  East 
and  West  Indies,  but  none  so  beautiful  as  the  North  Ameri- 
can plants,  M.  Grandiflora,  etc. 

MARIGOLD. 
Calendula. 

Calendula,  according  to  Martyn,  a  diminutive  from  CaZ- 
tha,  the  name  of  the  most  common  species,  in  old  authors. 

Caltha,  supposed  to  be  derived  from  the  Greek  xaMtS-os, 
a  basket,  alluding  to  the  shape  of  the  flower. 

Ventenat  derives  calendula  from  calenda,  the  Latin  for 
the  first  day  of  every  month,  because  it  continues  long  in 
flower. 

Marigold  E.  called  in  Welsh  gold,  which  is  said  to  be 
from  gol,  going  round.  In  Dutch  gondsbloem,  gold  flower. 

Webster. 

Johnson  derives  the  name  from  Mary,  and  gold,  and  sup- 
posed it  to  have  been  devoted  to  the  Virgin  Mary.  And  in 
Hone's  Every  Day  Book,  the  flower  is  devoted  to  the  An- 
nunciation of  the  B.  V.  Mary,  for  the  25th  March. 

The  Calendula  closes  its  petals  at  certain  hours  of  the 
day,  and  is  one  of  those  styled  by  Linnaeus,  the  Horologe, 
(Horologium,  L.)  or  Watch  of  Flora.  The  Leontodon, 
Convolvulus,  Malva,  or  Mallow,  and  many  others,  are  of 
this  class. 

And  bright  Calendula,  with  golden  hair; 
Watch  with  nice  eye,  the  earth's  diurnal  way, 
Marking  her  solar,  and  siderial  day, 
Her  slow  nutation,  and  her  varying  clime, 
And  trace,  with  mimic  art,  the  march  of  time. 

Darwin. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  a  calyx  with  many  divi- 
sions: corolla  radiate;  florets  of  the  disk,  numerous,  tubular, 
the  length  of  the  calyx;  the  ray  strap-shaped,  very  long, 
three-toothed,  hairy  at  the  base;  seeds  of  the  circumference 
of  the  disk,  different  from  those  of  the  ray,  both  fertile.  Pe- 
rennial. 

The  Tagetes,  African,  or  French  Marigold,  was  first 
designated  for  the  emblem,  (cruelty)  now  applied  to  the  whole 
genus. 

It  is  a  Mexican  plant;  and  the  fabulous  account  of  this 
species  is,  that  it  first  became  stained  and  marked  with  a  dark 
red,  by  the  blood  of  the  unhappy  Mexicans,  whom  the  insa- 
tiable Spaniards  slew  in  their  own  peaceful  fields. 

According  to  Gerard,  it  was  first  introduced  into  Europe 
about  the  time  that  a  famous  conquest  of  Tunis  was  achieved 
by  a  Roman  Emperor,  and,  in  compliment  to  that  monarch, 
for  having  given  liberty  to  twenty-two  thousand  Christian 
slaves,  it  was  called  Flos.  Jlfricanus,  or  African  Marygold. 
Its  appellation  of  French  Marygold,  is  from  the  seeds  being 
first  obtained  from  France. 

M.  Pirolle  tells  us,  that  these  flowers  were  called  Tage- 


•*" 


tes,  from  the  Greek  T*^,  meaning  principality,  (or  Tagos, 
a  commander,)  which  shows  the  rank  these  plants  held  in 
the  parterre.  [See  Flora  Historical 

MARVEL  OF  PERU. 

Mirabilis. 

The  Spaniards  applied  the  appellation  Mirabilis  del 
Peru,  the  Marvel  of  Peru,  to  this  plant,  on  account  of  the 
great  diversity  of  colour  in  its  flowers,  on  the  same  root. 

The  French  call  it  Belle  de  Nuit,  because  the  flowers 
expand  and  smell  sweet,  at  night  only.  And  because  its  flow- 
ers seem  too  timid  to  expand  their  variously  coloured  corollas 
to  an  European  sun. 

Sous  le  voile  mysterieux 
De  la  craintive  modestie, 
Tu  veux  echapper  a  nos  yeux, 
Et  tu  n'en  es  que  plus  jolie. 

On  cherche,  on  aime  a  decouvrir 
Le  doux  tresor  que  tu  receles; 
Ah !  pour  encore  les  embellir, 
Donne  ton  secret  a  nos  belles. 

JH.  Constant  Dubos. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  a  talyx  inferior,  five-cleft; 
corolla  funnel-shaped,  its  base  inflated  and  permanent;  nec- 
tary a  gland  surrounding  the  germen.  Plant  perennial,  in  its 
several  species. 

MEADOW  SAFFRON. 
Colchicum  Jlutumnale. 

Colchicum,  supposed  to  be  so  called  from  Colchis,  where 
it  is  said  to  grow  in  great  abundance. 

According  to  fabulous  history,  this  Autumnal  flower  owes 
its  origin  to  some  drops  being  spilt  in  the  fields,  of  the  magic 
liquor,  which  Medea  had  prepared  to  restore  the  aged  .3t!son 
to  the  bloom  and  vigour  of  youth ;  and,  on  this  account,  the 
Colchicum  was  anciently  regarded  as  a  preservative  against 
all  sorts  of  maladies.  It  is  suggested,  also,  that,  as  Medea 
is  sometimes  called  Colchis,  it  was  the  Colchicum  that  re- 
lieved JEson  from  his  infirmities. 

The  foaming  juices,  now,  the  brink  o'erswell; 
The  barren  heath,  where'er  the  liquor  fell, 
Sprang  out  with  vernal  grass,  and  all  the  pride 
Of  blooming  May. 

Tate's  and  Stonestreet's  Ovid. 

The  moon  shines  bright    *    *    *    *    * 
*    #    #    *    #    in  such  a  night    *     * 
Medea  gathered  the  enchanted  herbs 
That  did  renew  old  jEson.  Shaks. 

Meadow  Saffron. — Saffron,  E.;  Welsh  safrwn,  safyr; 
Fr.  safran;  Dutch  saffraan;  Turkish  zafran,  to  be  yellow, 
to  be  empty;  the  root  of  cipher.  Webster. 

The  root  of  Colchicum  is  bulbous,  nearly  as  large  as  the 
Tulip,  and  is,  unquestionably,  poisonous.  The  calyx  a  spathe ; 


corolla  monopetalous,  tubular,  very  long,  six-cleft;  the  tube 
springing  immediately  from  the  root.  There  are  three  spe- 
cies of  it,  purple,  reddish,  and  variegated  with  purple  spots: 
natives  of  Europe. 

Darwin  remarks  of  the  C.  Jlutwmnale,  or  Meadow  Saf- 
fron, that  "  the  germ  is  buried  within  the  root,  which  thus 
seems  to  constitute  a  part  of  the  flower .  These  singular  flow- 
ers appear  in  the  Autumn,  without  any  leaves;  whence,  in 
some  countries,  they  are  called  naked  ladies:  in  the  March 
following,  the  green  leaves  spring  up;  and,  in  April,  the  seed- 
vessel  rises  from  the  ground:  the  seeds  ripen  in  May,  con- 
trary to  the  usual  habits  of  vegetables,  which  flower  in  the 
Spring,  and  ripen  their  seeds  in  the  Autumn." 

The  defoliation  of  deciduous  trees  is  announced  by  the 
flowering  of  the  Colchicum;  of  these  the  Ash  is  the  last  that 
puts  forth  its  leaves,  and  the  first  to  lose  them. 

[See  Darwin's  JVbtes.] 

Then,  bright  from  earth,  amid  the  troubled  sky, 
Ascends  fair  Colchicum,  with  radiant  eye, 
Warms  the  cold  bosom  of  the  hoary  year, 
And  lights,  with  beauty's  blaze,  the  dusky  sphere. 

Darwin. 

MIGNONETTE. 

Reseda  Odorata. 

Reseda,  a  name  which  occurs  in  Pliny,  and  is  evidently 
derived  from  resedo,  to  allay  or  mitigate — the  second  syllable 
long. 

Pliny  reports,  that  this  herb  is  known  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Rimini,  and  was  used  for  dispersing  tumours,  and  all 
kinds  of  inflammations. 

The  Reseda  Odorata  first  found  its  way  to  the  South  ef 
France,  where  it  is  called  -Mignonette,  Little  Darling. 
Cowper  calls  it  "  The  Frenchman's  Darling." 

Mignonette  is  said  to  be  derived  from  the  Italian  mi,  and 
nonnette,  my  young  nun.  Spanish,  JVLinoneta. 

Linnteus  observes,  that  there  is  scarcely  any  genus  whose 
character  is  more  difficult  to  determine — there  being  such  a 
diversity  of  shape  and  parts,  in  different  species. 

The  Reseda  Odorata,  Sweet  Mignonette,  is  a  native  of 
Egypt;  a  hardy  annual,  blooming  all  the  year  round,  if  pro- 
perly sheltered.  Its  Jlowers  are  deliciously  fragrant,  resem- 
bling that  of  the  vine-blossom,  or  fruit  of  the  raspberry.  The 
petals  several,  unequal;  segments  all  very  deep,  of  a  pale 
buff  colour,  prettily  contrasted  with  the  red  anthers;  calyx 
equal  to  the  corolla,  inferior,  of  one  leaf,  deeply  divided; 
leaves  flat,  undivided,  or  three-lobed. 

No  gorgeous  flowers  the  meek  reseda  grace, 

Yet  sip,  with  eager  trunk,  you  busy  race, 

Her  simple  cup,  nor  heed  the  dazzling  gem, 

That  beams  in  Fritillaria's  diadem.  Evans. 

MIMOSA;  or,  SENSITIVE  PLANT. 
From  JWimus,  an  actor  or  imitator — its  motions  imi- 
tating the  sensibility  of  animal  life. 

The  plants  of  this  genus,  naturally  contract  themselves 


in  the  evening,  and  expand  with  the  morning's  light.     (See 
"  Structure  of  Plants,"  upon  the  effect  of  light  upon  leaves.) 

Whence  does  it  happen  that  the  plant,  which  well 
We  name  the  sensitive)  should  move  and  feel? 
Whence  know  her  leaves  to  answer  her  command, 
And,  with  quick  horror,  fly  the  neighbouring  hand? 

Prior. 

Naturalists  have  not  explained  the  immediate  cause  of 
the  collapsing  of  the  sensitive  plant,  when  exposed  to  exter- 
nal violence.  Darwin  asks,  "  May  it  not  be  owing  to  a  numb- 
ness, or  paralysis,  consequent  to  too  violent  irritation,  like 
the  fainting  of  animals  from  pain  or  fatigue?" 

Weak  with  nice  sense,  the  chaste  Mimosa  stands, 
From  each  rude  touch  withdraws  her  timid  hands; 
Oft,  as  light  clouds  o'erpass  the  summer's  glade, 
Alarm'd  she  trembles  at  the  moving  shade, 
And  feels  alive  through  all  her  tender  form, 
The  whisper'd  murmurs  of  the  gathering  storm; 
Shuts  her  sweet  eye-lids  to  approaching  night, 
And  hails,  with  freshen'd  charms,  the  rosy  light. 

Darwin. 

There  are  many  species  of  Mimosa — some,  tall  trees, 
others,  humble  plants:  natives  of  the  East  and  West  In- 
dies, kc. 

The  Mimosa  Pudica,  common  Sensitive  Plant,  is  a  na- 
tive of  South  America:  it  is  naturally  shrubby;  leaves  pinnate, 
or  somewhat  fingered;  leaflets  very  numerous,  oblong,  rather 
bristly;  the  flowers  are  pale  purple,  in  round,  axillary,  stalked 
tufts. 

MOCK  ORANGE. 
Philadelphus  Coronarius. 

Philadelphia,  the  name  of  a  shrub  mentioned  by  Athe- 
naeus,  which  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  ascertain.  Caspar 
Bauhin  first  applied  it  to  our  Syringa,  or  Mock  Orange,  with 
which  it  remains,  as  the  generic  appellation.  Linnaeus  sup- 
poses it  was  designed  to  commemorate  Ptolemy  Philadel- 
phia, king  of  Egypt;  but  a  more  probable  opinion  seems  to 
be,  that  the  plant  of  Athenaeus  was  of  the  twining  or  clasping 
kind;  and  that  the  word,  by  a  poetical  fancy,  was  intended 
to  express  its  brotherly  love  for  those  near  it. 

Philadelphus  was  a  title,  or  surname,  borne  by  several 
ancient  kings — formed  from  the  Gr.  *.xo5,  friend,  lover,  and 
a^f^eos,  brother;  i.  e. — one  who  loves  his  brother,  or  brethren. 

The  specific  name  Coronarius,  L.  that  belongeth  to,  or 
serveth  to  make  crowns  or  garlands. 

The  flowers  of  P.  Coronarius  are  white,  and  something 
like  those  of  the  orange;  much  larger,  in  dense,  terminal,  up- 
right clusters,  powerfully  scented;  leaves  elliptical,  recurved, 
opposite,  on  short  stalks,  dark  green,  smooth,  with  broad 
shallow  teeth;  their  flavour,  on  the  palate,  very  like  the  cu- 
cumber. 

MOSS  MUSCUS. 

.Mosses  Musci. 
Moss,  E. — Sax.  meos;  Welsh  mwswg,  from  mws,  that 


shoots  up,  and  of  a  strong  scent.  Latin  muscus;  Greek 
j"°<r%°;5  the  two  latter  words  signify  moss  and  musk,  both 
from  shooting  out;  the  Greek  word  also  signifies  a  young 
animal,  and  a  shoot  or  twig.  French  mousse,  from  which 
comes  mousseline,  muslin,  from  its  softness  or  resemblance 
to  muslin.  Lunier  says  it  is  from  Mossoul,  a  city  of  Meso- 
potamia. Webster. 

Musci,  origin  unknown.  The  word  occurs  often  in  the 
best  Latin  writers.  Ambrosinus  deduces  it  from  a  Greek 
word,  M3<r%os — a  young  calf,  or  lamb,  as  well  as  the  young 
shoot  or  tendril  of  a  plant,  which  is  not  an  improbable  ety- 
mology, and  is  adopted  by  Ray. 

The  older  botanists  have  still  more  difficulty  in  defining 
the  nature  of  a  Moss,  than  in  the  derivation  of  its  name. 

.Rees'  Cyclopedia. 

Mosses  are  interesting  little  evergreens,  with  distinct 
leaves,  and  frequently  as  distinct  a  stem.  They  are  found 
in  the  hottest,  as  well  as  the  coldest  climates,  and  have  the 
singular  property  of  reviving  vith  moisture,  however  much 
dried  up. 

Ray  tells  us,  that  the  most  perfect  kinds  are  furnished 
with  organs  containing  a  pulpy  matter,  that  becomes  dry  in 
ripening;  and,  when  arrived  at  maturity,  flies  off  in  the  form 
of  an  extremely  subtile  powder,  serving  for  the  propagation 
of  the  plant.  Modern  botanists,  with  the  aid  of  magnifying 
glasses,  have  thought  that  they  have  discovered  both  stamens 
and  pistils,  enclosed  in  a  roundish  body  that  grows  out  of  the 
bottom  of  the  leaves;  and  which,  when  the  seed  ripens,  falls 
off. 

Mosses  are  fond  of  moisture,  shade,  and  retirement:  en- 
livening the  dark  recesses  of  solitude  by  the  vivid  green  of 
their  diminutive  foliage. 

The  mossy  fountains,  and  the  sylvan  shades 

Delight  no  more.  Pope 

MYRTLE. 

Myrtus. 

Myrtus,  so  named  from  Myrsine,  or  Myrene,  a  Grecian 
female  and  priestess,  in  the  Temple  of  Venus.  She  was  a 
great  favourite  of  Minerva;  and  Venus,  as  a  proof  of  her  own 
regard,  changed  her  into  the  Myrtle;  which,  at  the  same  time, 
she  decreed  should  be  green  and  odoriferous  throughout  the 
year. 

Lat.  Myrtus',  Gr.  ^ufTo;. 

In  the  calendar  of  Julius  Caesar,  we  find  the  month  of 
•April  under  the  protection  of  the  goddess  Venus:  and  the 
first  day  of  the  month,  dedicated  to  Venus,  with  flowers  and 
Myrtles. 

A  myrtle  crown  was  worn  by  the  general  to  whom  an 
oration  was  decreed;  the  reason  of  which,  according  to  Plu- 
tarch, in  his  life  of  Marcellus,  was,  that,  as  an  oration  was  de- 
creed for  some  remarkable  success,  obtained  by  treaty,  or 
without  much  bloodshed,  it  was  proper  that  the  general,  at 
his  public  appearance,  should  be  crowned  with  a  tree  sacred 
to  Venus;  who,  of  all  the  deities,  was  supposed  to  be  most 
averse  to  the  horrors  of  war. 


We  find,  elsewhere,  this  Roman  crown  of  Myrtle  was 
called  the  oval  crown,  and  given  to  those  who  were  entitled 
to  the  honours  of  the  lesser  triumph,  called  ovation.  It  was 
customary  for  the  Roman  generals,  in  the  greater  triumphs, 
to  sacrifice  an  ox;  and,  in  the  lesser,  a  sheep — in  Latin  ovis, 
whence  the  word  ovation. 

In  Sparta,  the  general  who  put  a  period  to  a  war,  by  po- 
licy or  persuasion,  sacrificed  a  bullock;  but  he,  whose  success 
was  owing  to  force  of  arms,  offered  only  a  cock :  for,  though 
they  were  a  very  warlike  people,  they  thought  it  more  honour- 
able, and  more  worthy  of  a  human  being,  to  succeed  by  elo- 
quence and  wisdom,  than  by  courage  and  force. 

In  Herodotus,  we  are  told  that  the  ancients  expressed 
triumph  and  joy  by  the  Myrtle.  "  The  hero  wore  it  as  a 
mark  of  victory;  the  bridegroom,  on  his  bridal  day;  and  friends 
presented  each  other  with  myrtle  garlands,  in  the  conviviality 
of  the  banquet.  Venus  is  said  to  have  been  adorned  with  it, 
when  Paris  decided. in  her  favour  the  prize  of  beauty;  and, 
for  this  reason,  it  was  deemed  odious  to  Minerva." 

[See  notes  on  Polymnia.] 

Myrtle  was  the  symbol  of  authority  for  magistrates  at 
Athens. 

Concordia,  the  goddess  of  Peace  and  Concord,  at  Rome, 
is  represented  holding  in  one  hand  a  pomegranate;  in  the 
other,  a  bundle  of  Myrtle.  The  nature  of  these  trees  is,  that, 
if  they  be  planted  a  good  space  apart,  they  will  meet,  and 
mingle  or  entwine  their  branches. 

The  Myrtle,  on  thy  breast  or  brow, 

Would  lively  hope  and  love  avow.  J.  H.  Wiffin. 

NARCISSUS  POETIC. 
Narcissus  Poeticus. 

Narcissus,  a  name  adopted  from  the  poets,  who  have 
fabled  that  the  flower  which  bears  it,  originated  in  the  trans- 
formation of  a  beautiful  youth,  who  pined  away  with  admira- 
tion of  his  own  image  in  a  fountain .  Some  have  derived  it 
from  a  Greek  word,  va^,  stupor — alluding  to  the  effects  of 
the  too  powerful  odour  of  the  flower;  which,  in  some  instan- 
ces, produce  head-ache,  and  a  partial  loss  of  recollection. 

The  name  of  the  youth  might  aptly  apply  to  the  stupidity 
of  his  passion,  in  slighting  the  fair  Echo,  in  favour  of  his  own 
shadow:  as,  also,  to  the  flower,  with  its  reputed  narcotic 
properties,  before  Ovid  elegantly  combined  them. 

"  When  one  fair  virgin  of  the  slighted  train, 
Thus  pray'd  the  Gods,  provok'd  by  his  disdain; 
0,  may  he  love  like  me,  and  love  in  vain." 

Jlddison's  Ovid. 

For,  as  his  own  bright  image  he  survey'd, 
He  fell  in  love  with  the  fantastic  shade; 
And  o'er  the  fair  resemblance  hung  unmov'd, 
Nor  knew,  fond  youth!  it  was  himself  he  lov'd. 

Same. 

The  Poetic  Narcissus,  JV.  Poeticus,  is  the  largest  of  the 
white  kinds;  and  known,  from  all  others,  by  the  crimson  bor- 
der of  its  very  shallow,  and  almost  flat,  cup  of  the  nectary. 


The  double  variety  is  most  frequent  in  gardens:  sometimes, 
there  are  two  flowers  in  a  sheath. 

The  JV".  Jlngustifolia,  narrow-leafed,  crimson-edged 
Narcissus,  is  the  only  one  of  the  genus  that  resembles  it;  but 
it  is  scarcely  above  half  so  large,  with  leaves  of  a  narrower 
proportion  and  flatter  form,  and  the  edge  of  the  nectary  more 
erect. 

It  flowers  in  April,  full  six  weeks  before  the  Poeticus. 


Narcissus  fair, 
As  o'er  the  fabled  fountain  hanging  still. 


Thomson. 


For  him  the  sister-nymphs  prepare  his  urn, 
When,  looking  for  his  corps,  they  only  found 
A  rising  stalk,  with  yellow  blossoms  crown'd. 

•Addisorts  Ovid. 

NASTURTIUM. 

Tropseolum. 

Tropieolum,  the  diminutive  of  Tropseum,  a  warlike  tro- 
phy. 

This  fanciful,  but  elegant  name,  was  chosen  by  Linnaeus 
for  the  present  singular  and  striking  genus,  because  he  con- 
ceived the  shield-like  leaves  and  the  brilliant  flowers,  shaped 
like  golden  helmets,  pierced  through  and  through,  and  stained 
with  blood,  might,  very  well,  justify  such  an  allusion. 

Nasturtium — All  that  I  can  find  in  relation  to  this  word 
is  in  Ains worth;  he  says  " nasitertium,  quod  nasum  tor- 
queat — the  herb  called  cresses,  or  nose-smart."  Varro. 

The  name  of  Indian  cress,  applied  to  it,  is  in  reference 
to  the  cress-like  flavour  of  the  herbage. 

The  Nasturtium  major,  or  Indian  Cress,  is  now  the 
most  commonly  cultivated  species.  It  was  a  daughter  of 
Linnaeus,  Elizabeth  Christina,  who  first  observed  it  to  emit 
sparks,  or  flashes  of  light,  in  the  morning,  before  sun-rise, 
during  the  hottest  months  of  summer;  as,  also,  at  twilight 
in  the  evening:  but  not  after  total  darkness  came  on.  These 
singular  scintillations  were  shown  to  her  father,  and  other 
philosophers. 

The  ceasing  to  shine  of  this  plant,  after  twilight,  might 
induce  one  to  conceive  that  it  absorbed  and  emitted  light, 
like  the  Bolognian  phosphorus,  or  calcined  oyster-shells,  so 
well  explained  by  Mr.  B.  Wilson,  and  others. 

The  light  of  the  evening,  at  the  same  distance  from  noon, 
is  much  greater  than  the  light  of  the  morning.  This  is  sup- 
posed to  be  owing  to  the  phosphorescent  quality  of  almost  all 
bodies,  in  a  greater  or  less  degree;  which  thus  absorb  light 
during  the  sunshine,  and  continue  to  emit  it  again  for  some 
time  afterwards;  though  not  in  such  quantity  as  to  produce 
apparent  scintillations,  as  in  this  flower. 

[See  Darwin's  Notes.] 

"  Ere  the  bright  star,  which  leads' the  morning  sky, 
Hangs  o'er  the  blushing  east  his  diamond  eye, 
The  chaste  Trop«o  leaves  her  secret  bed; 
A  saint-like  glory  trembles  round  her  head; 

#  *  *  # 

O'er  her  fair  form,  the  electric  lustre  plays, 
And  cold  she  moves  amid  the  lambent  blaze 


So  shines  the  glow-fly,  when  the  sun  retires, 
And  gems  the  night-air  with  phosphoric  fires." 

Darwin. 

Bright  the  Nasturtium  glows,  and,  late  at  eve, 

Light,  lambent,  dances  o'er  its  sleepless  bed. 

Biblake. 

The  Tropseolum  has  a  calyx  of  one  leaf,  five-cleft, 
slightly  spreading,  acute,  coloured,  deciduous,  with  a  necta- 
riferous spur  behind.  Five  unequal  petals,  roundish,  insert- 
ed between  the  segments  of  the  calyx;  the  two  uppermost 
sessile;  three  lower,  with  oblong  fringed  claws. 

Darwin  observes,  that  "  The  nectary  grows  from  what 
is  supposed  to  be  the  calyx;  but  this  calyx  is  coloured,  and, 
perhaps,  from  this  circumstance,  of  its  bearing  the  nectary, 
should  rather  be  esteemed  a  part  of  the  corolla." 

The  seeds  are  hot  and  pungent,  much  used  for  pickles: 
and  the  flowers  are  often  intermixed  with  sallad  herbs,  both 
for  ornament  and  flavour. 

There  is  a  double-flowered  perennial  variety  of  this  spe- 
cies, common  in  green-houses,  and  readily  increased  by  cut- 
tings. 

NETTLE. 
Urtica. 

Urtica,  derived  from  Uro,  to  burn,  or  sting,  in  allusion 
to  the  property  which  our  common  nettles  are  known  to  pos- 
sess. 

Nettle,  E.— Sax.  netl,  netele;  Dutch,  netal;  Greek, 
xn£>j,  from  the  root  of  xv<£<»,  xv»o>,  to  scratch. 

The  finely  acuminated  prickles  of  the  Net  tie,  if  examin- 
ed with  a  microscope,  will  be  found  to  resemble  the  stings 
of  insects,  and  teeth  of  adders.  Notwithstanding  their  mi- 
nuteness, they  are  hollow,  and  convey  a  poisonous  fluid, 
which  lurks  in  a  small  bag  at  the  base  of  the  sting;  upon  the 
sting  meeting  with  resistance,  it  presses  upon  this  little  reser- 
voir, and  ejects  the  fluid,  a  caustic  essential  oil,  into  the 
wound  made  by  the  point. 

Nettle  is  supposed  to  be  derived  from  the  Greek  word 
VUTTIIV,  to  sting. 

[See  Skinner,  and  Lemon,  word  nettle.] 

Urtica  flings 
Her  barbed  shafts,  and  darts  her  poison'd  stings. 

Darwin. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  no  corolla.  The  stam- 
niferous  flowers  have  a  cup  or  calyx  of  four  roundish  leaves ; 
instead  of  the  petals,  a  honey-cup  is  placed  in  the  centre  of 
the  flower.  The  pistill\ferous  flowers  are  not,  always,  on 
the  same  plant,  but  are  sometimes  seen  on  distant  ones:  they 
have  a  cup  formed  of  two  valves,  which,  closing,  supplies  the 
place  of  a  seed  vessel.  Seed,  solitary,  superior,  polished. 

NIGHT-SHADE. 

Solatium,  and  Jltropa. 

Solatium,  is  among  the  few  ancient  names  whose  source 
cannot  be  traced.  Rees1  Cyclopedia. 

Ainsworth,  derives  Solanum,  from  Sole,  but  whether  he 
means  the  ablative  case  of  Sol,  the  Sun,  or  Solee,  a  city  of 
Cilicia,  (founded  by  Solon,  from  whom  it  took  its  name)  from 


whence  it  may  have  been  originally  brought,  or  where  it  may 
have  been  first  observed,  does  not  appear 

Jltropa,  from  Jltropos,  the  third  Fate,  who  is  supposed 
to  cut  the  thread  of  life.  Jltropa  is  the  deadly  Night-shade 
of  Linnaeus,  and  other  botanists. 

Solanum  and  Jltropa,  are  of  the  same  class  and  order,  as 
designated  for  Solanum  in  the  glossary. 

Of  Night-shade,  Skinner  offers  the  following  etymo- 
logy: 

"Night-shade,  Teutonic  natschade,  Solanum;  so  call- 
ed, either  from  its  dark  colour,  or,  because  it  produces  sleep, 
the  representative  of  night;  or,  rather,  according  to  the  Teu- 
tonic mode  of  writing,  from  the  Teutonic  nacht,  night,  and 
schade,  damage,  as  much  as  to  say  the  damage  or  destruction 
of  night:  because,  to  wit,  it  induces  perpetual  night,  at  least, 
if  liberally  taken." 

The  genus  Solanum,  contains  plants  of  the  herbaceous, 
shrubby,  and  tuberous-rooted  kinds.  Many  of  them  esculent, 
as  the  potato,  egg-plant,  tomato,  &c. 

The  Solanum  Nigrum,  Garden  Night-shade,  has  white 
flowers,  with  yellow  anthers;  corolla  of  one  petal,  wheel- 
shaped,  tube  very  short;  calyx  of  one  leaf,  cut  half  way  down 
into  five  erect,  acute,  permanent  segments;  berries  the  size 
of  currants,  usually  black,  sometimes  yellow;  stem  bushy; 
leaves  scattered,  stalked,  ovate,  slightly  downy,  elongated  at 
the  base;  wavy,  or  coarsely  toothed  at  the  margin. 

Jltropa  Belladonna  has,  also,  a  one-leafed  perianth,  five- 
parted,  gibbous;  divisions  acute,  permanent;  corolla  one-pe- 
talled,  bell-shaped,  of  a  dirty  violet  colour,  longer  than  the 
calyx;  anthers  white,  large;  berry  depressed,  furrowed,  when 
ripe,  of  a  shining  black  colour,  sweet,  juicy;  stem  herbaceous, 
about  three  feet  high ;  leaves  ovate,  entire,  two  together,  of 
unequal  size,  petiolated,  smooth,  of  a  dull  green.  The  plant 
is  to  be  avoided,  being  a  strong  narcotic  poison.  In  some 
instances,  even  half  a  berry  has  produced  fatal  effects.  Its 
root  is  perennial. 

In  the  genus  Jltropa  is  found  the  celebrated  Mandrake, 
or  Jl.  Mandragora,  native  of  the  South  of  Europe.  The 
fancied  resemblance  of  some  of  the  roots  of  this  plant  to  the 
human  form;  the  danger  of  taking  them  out  of  the  ground,  (it 
was  supposed  to  cause  the  certain  death  of  the  person  who 
dared  to  attempt  such  a  deed,)  and  the  groans  emitted  by  it 
when  violence  was  offered,  as  well  as  other  surprising  virtues 
ascribed  to  it,  are  all  equally  fabulous. 

Would  curses  kill,  as  doth  the  mandrake's  groan, 

I  would  invent  as  bitter,  searching  terms, 

As  curst,  as  harsh,  and  horrible  to  hear  Shaks. 

And  shrieks,  like  mandrakes,  torn  out  of  the  earth, 
That  living  mortals,  hearing  them,  run  mad.          Same. 

The  Mandrake  has  a  soporific  quality,  and  the  ancients 
used  it  when  they  wanted  a  narcotic  of  the  most  powerful 
kind.  [See  Johnson.] 

Come,  violent  death, 
Serve  for  Mandragora,  to  make  me  sleep. 

Webster's  Duchess  of  Malfy. 


Not  poppy,  nor  Mandragora, 
Nor  all  the  drowsy  syrups  of  the  world, 
Shall  ever  med'cine  thee  to  that  sweet  sleep, 
Which  thou  owedst  yesterday.  Shaks.  Othello. 

Our  common  Poke-weed,  Phytolacca  Decandra,  is 
called  the  American  Night-shade. 

OAK. 

Quercus. 

Quercus,  supposed  to  be  derived  from  the  Celtic,  quer, 
fine,  and  cuez,  a  tree.  The  Oak  tree  was,  also,  called  in  the 
Celtic  tongue,  derw — whence  came  the  word  Druid,  or  Priest 
of  the  Oak. 

The  etymology  of  druid,  preferred  by  Skinner,  is  the 
Greek  word  jfU;,  signifying  an  Oak:  "Which  tree  they  held 
sacred,  and  under  which  they  offered  their  sacrifices."  (See 
Pliny  and  others.)  "  For  I  have  no  doubt,"  he  adds,  "  that 
the  Massilian  Greeks  called  these  priests  by  this  name,  on 
account  of  their  worship  of  oak  trees,  from  whom  the  word 
was  transferred  to  the  Romans,  and  not  that  these  priests 
called  themselves  druids." 

Oak,  E.  Sax.  ac,  sec;  Dutch  eik  or  eikboom;  Danish 
eege-trsee.  It  is  probable  that  the  first  syllable,  oak,  was 
originally  an  adjective,  expressing  some  quality,  as  hard,  or 
strong,  and  by  the  disuse  of  the  tree,  OAK  became  the  name 
of  the  tree.  Webster. 

The  Oak  has  no  corolla,  a  calyx  of  one  leaf,  bell-shaped, 
membraneous,  with  about  five  small  sharp,  often  cloven,  seg- 
ments. The  varieties  of  the  species  are  too  great,  to  at- 
tempt a  description  of  their  foliage,  and  too  well  known  to 
require  it. 

Several  of  the  species  yield  the  well  known  substance 
called  cork,  particularly  the  Q.  Suber,  or  Cork  tree,  native 
of  the  South  of  Europe,  and  North  of  Africa.  When  this 
tree  is  about  fifteen  years  old,  the  bark,  which  is  a  remarkably 
thick  and  spongy  coat,  may  be  stripped  off,  successively,  for 
about  eight  years;  it  immediately  renews  itself— and,  if  not 
removed,  it  is  pushed  up,  by  a  second  growth,  forming  under 
that  of  the  preceding  year.  Its  quality  improves  with  the  age 
of  the  tree. 

The  oak  attains  to  a  great  age. 

The  monarch  oak,  the  patriarch  of  the  trees, 
Shoots  rising  up,  and  spreads,  by  slow  degrees: 
Three  centuries  he  grows,  and  three  he  stays 
Supreme  in  state,  and  in  three  more  decays. 

Dry  den. 

Among  the  Romans,  there  were  various  kinds  of  crowns 
distributed  as  rewards  of  military  achievements.  The  civic 
crown,  made  of  a  branch  of  green  oak,  was  given  to  him  who 
had  saved  the  life  of  a  citizen  in  a  battle  or  assault.  This 
was  esteemed  more  honourable  than  any  other  crown.  Virgil 
calls  it  "  civilis  quercus."  This  crown  was  conferred  on  Ci- 
cero, for  detecting  Cataline's  conspiracy— and,  afterwards, 
on  Augustus  Caesar  himself. 


Most  worthy  of  the  oaken  wreath 
The  ancients  him  esteem'd, 

Who  in  a  battle  had  from  death 
Some  man  of  worth  redeem'd. 


Drayton. 


The  oak  was  sacred  to  Jupiter,  the  great  guardian  of 
their  city;  and  the  Romans  might,  therefore,  deem  it  the  most 
proper  ornament  for  him  who  had  preserved  a  citizen. 

Ovid  tells  us: 

In  witness  of  renown, 
An  Oaken  garland  did  the  victor  crown. 
The  Laurel  was  not  yet  for  triumph  borne; 
But  ev'ry  green,  alike,  by  Phoebus  worn, 
Did,  with  promiscuous  grace,  his  flowing  locks  adorn. 

OATS. 

JLmna. 

Jivena,  supposed  to  be  derived  from  aveo,  to  desire,  or 
covet,  cattle  being  very  fond  of  it. 

[Rees?  Cyclopedia.'] 

"  Oates,  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  Jit  en,  Avena :  this,  per- 
haps, from  the  Saxon  Etan,  to  eat;  for,  every  where,  it  is 
food  for  horses — and,  in  some  places,  for  men." 

[See  Skinner.] 

So  that  Doctor  Johnson's  offensive  definition  of  Oats: 
"  A  grain  which,  in  England,  is  generally  given  to  horses; 
but,  in  Scotland,  supports  the  people," — is  only  a  specific  ap- 
propriation of  what  Skinner  had  left  general;  and  is,  there- 
fore, not  quite  so  original  a  piece  of  wit  as  it  has  been 
thought. 

The  English  name  Oat  is  seldom  used  in  the  singular — 
only  in  compound  words,  as  Oat-meal,  etc.  The  second  de- 
finition of  Oat,  in  Johnson,  is  "  Jl  small  pipe  made  of  oaten 
straw."  And  in  Pitt's  Virgil,  we  are  told  that  "  the  musical 
instruments  used  by  shepherds,  were  at  first  made  of  Oat  and 
Wheat-straw,  and  were  called  Jlvena;  then  of  reeds,  and 
hollow  pipes  of  box — afterwards  of  other  materials. 

In  Virgil,  Shakspeare,  Milton,  and  others,  there  is  fre- 
quent mention  of  this  rural  pipe  of  the  pastoral  ages. 

Then  the  shrill  sound  of  a  small  rural  pipe, 
Was  entertainment  for  the  infant  stage. 

Roscommon. 

When  shepherds  pipe  on  Oaten-straws, 
And  merry  larks  are  ploughmen's  clocks.  Shaks. 

Playing  on  pipes  of  corn,  and  versing  love.  Same. 

In  beachen  shades,  you  Tit'rus,  stretch'd  along, 
Tune  to  the  slender  reed  your  sylvan  song. 

Virgil's  Eclogues. 

Charm'd  with  Arcadian  pipe.  Milton. 

In  the  third  eclogue  of  Virgil,  we  find  an  amusing  contest 
for  supremacy,  in  music,  between  two  shepherds: 


•4- 


•*•• 


Menalcas. 

You  win  a  goat  by  music?    *    ' 

*  *  *  * 

*    *    *    Whose  sole  ambition  was  to  draw 
The  mob  in  streets  to  hear  thy  grating  straw. 

Damoetas. 

Howe'er  that  be,  suppose  we  trial  make? 
I  to  provoke  you  more,  yon  heifer  stake. 

*  *•  *  * 

Pollio  approves,  though  rough  my  rural  reed,  etc. 

The  flowers  of  the  Oat  have  no  petals,  and  are  disposed 
in  a  loose  panicle.  The  essential  character  of  the  Oat  con- 
sists in  the  jointed,  twisted  awn,  or  beard,  that  grows  from 
the  back  of  the  blossom.  It  is  remarkable  for  the  elegance 
of  its  panicle,  and  the  flexibility  of  the  fruit-stalk,  which 
turns  with  the  slightest  breath  of  wind. 

The  Oat,  from  its  simply  graceful  growth,  is  now  con- 
sidered a  tasteful  ornament  for  a  lady's  hair;  and,  for  this  pur- 
pose, beautiful  imitations  are  frequently  made  of  it  in  gold 
and  silver. 

OLEANDER. 

Nerium. 

JVenwrn — this  Latin  name  is  derived  from  the  Greek 
N.)?.ovj  and  this,  again,  from  the  Greek  adjective  N>JJO;,  sig- 
nifying humid,  or  wet,  because  it  grows  about  rivers. 

[See  Jlinsworth;  and  Schrevelius'  Lexicon.] 

Oleander,  E.  Fr.  Oleandre;  the  plant  rosebay. 

Johnson. 

JVertwm  Oleander,  or  common  Rosebay,  natives  of  the 
South  of  Europe,  East  Indies,  etc.  All  the  species  are 
beautiful  tall  shrubs,  evergreen,  with  splendid  flowers,  usually 
of  a  rose  colour.  The  white  variety  is  the  most  tender. 

Oriental  travellers  have,  with  great  taste  and  probability, 
supposed  this  to  be  the  Bay-tree  to  which  the  righteous  man 
is  compared  by  the  royal  Psalmist. 

The  flowers  are  large  and  rich,  with  a  calyx  in  five  deep, 
acute,  permanent  segments:  corolla  monopetalous,  salver- 
shaped,  contorted ;  its  mouth  crowned  with  five  divided  leaf- 
lets; inodorous;  seeds  crowned  with  down. 

All  the  species  are  supposed  to  have  a  poisonous  quality. 
Ladies  would  do  well,  therefore,  to  beware  of  applying  it 
to  their  lips,  as  is  too  generally  their  custom  with  their  bou- 
quets. 

OLIVE. 

Olea. 

Olea,  L.  the  celebrated  t^i*  of  the  Greeks.  The  word 
is  derived  from  the  Greek  \it,;,  smooth;  alluding,  probably, 
to  the  nature  and  qualities  of  the  oil — for  there  is  no  remark- 
able smoothness  about  the  plant,  unless  it  be  the  upper  sur- 
face of  its  leaves.  Its  value,  on  account  of  its  oil,  has  ren- 
dered it  famous  throughout  all  antiquity. 

The  Olive  was  sacred  to  Minerva.  The  Athenians  held 
it  in  such  repute,  that  they  ascribed  its  production  to  their 
tutelar  deity,  Minerva.  The  famous  dispute  between  Nep- 


tune and  her,  as  to  the  right  of  worship  in  the  capital  of  At- 
tica, being  referred  to  the  gods,  it  was  decided  that  which 
ever  of  the  two  should  give  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  the 
most  useful  present,  should  have  the  patronage  of  the  city. 
The  Olive,  produced  by  Minerva,  being  the  emblem  of  peace 
and  comfort,  was,  unanimously,  pronounced  to  be  superior  to 
Neptune's  Horse — the  symbol  of  war  and  bloodshed.  Thence- 
forth she  became  the  tutelar  deity  of  the  city,  to  which  she 
gave  her  own  name  Jlthenee :  therefore,  it  had  been  called 
Cecropia,  in  honour  of  its  founder  Cecrops. 

The  Olive,  as  an  emblem  of  peace,  is  as  old  as  the  de- 
luge. It  was  a  branch  of  Olive,  brought  back  to  the  Ark  by 
Noah's  dove,  which  testified  that  the  waters,  the  ministers  of 
Heaven's  vengeance,  had  subsided. 


I  hold  the  Olive  in  my  hand:  my  words  are 
As  full  of  peace  as  of  matter. 


Shaks. 


To  thee  the  Heavens,  in  thy  nativity, 

Adjur'd  an  Olive  branch,  and  laurel  crown, 

As  likely  to  be  blest  in  peace  and  war.  Shaks. 

In  Rome,  a  particular  sort  of  coronet,  made  with  Olive 
boughs,  was  bestowed  in  consideration  of  some  signal  act  of 
valour. 

The  Olive  is  a  remarkably  long-lived  tree.  According 
to  some  authorities,  flourishing  more  than  five  centuries.  In 
France  it  is  asserted,  that  there  are  trees  which  two  men  can 
scarcely  encompass  with  their  arms.  The  flowers  of  the 
Olive  are  small,  white,  slightly  odoriferous,  and  disposed  in 
clusters  like  those  of  the  currant:  sometimes  the  clusters  are 
almost  as  numerous  as  the  leaves.  Each  flower  consists  of  a 
one-leaf  calyx;  a  monopetalous  corolla,  divided  into  four 
lobes,  funnel-shaped.  The  fruit  is  called,  by  botanists,  a 
drupe,  (drupa,  Latin.)  Leaves  generally  smooth,  and  of  a 
light  green  above,  whitish  and  somewhat  downy,  with  a  pro- 
minent rib  beneath. 

The  Olive  is  said  to  be  extremely  tenacious  of  life;  and 
it  is  asserted  that,  when  the  trunk  has  perished  by  frost  or  fire, 
it  sprouts  anew.  And  that,  even  if  a  bit  of  the  bark,  with  a 
thin  layer  of  wood,  be  buried  in  the  earth,  it  becomes  a  per- 
fect plant 

[See  "Michaux's  North  American  Sylva."] 

The  ancients  relied  chiefly  upon  propagation  by  slips; 
an  easy  and  expeditious  mode,  still  generally  followed  in 
Spain. 

ORANGE. 

Cirrus  Jlurantium. 

(For  Citrus,  see  Lemon.) 

Skinner  says,  the  Orange  takes  its  name  from  the  barba- 
rous Latin,  Jlurantium — which  denotes  its  golden  colour. 

From  aureo  (L.  )  golden,  colore,  colour.  The  aureum 
malum,  or  golden  apple  of  the  ancients.  Johnson. 

We  are  told  that  Citrus  Jlurantium,  China,  or  Sweet 
Orange,  which  first  made  its  appearance  in  Europe,  was  sent 
as  a  present  to  the  old  Conde  Mellor,  then  prime  minister  to 
the  king  of  Portugal:  but  that,  of  the  whole  case  sent  to  Lis- 
bon, there  was  only  one  tree  which  lived,  and  became  the 


parent  of  all  the  flourishing  trees  since  cultivated  by  the  gar- 
deners. 

The  Orange  tree  is  of  a  middling  size.  The  leaf  of  the 
Sweet,  or  China  Orange,  is  ovate,  lanceolate,  alternate,  very 
little  toothed,  or  not  at  all;  sprinkled  with  small,  resinous, 
transparent  tubercles,  resembling  those  of  some  species  of 
Hypericum.  The  flowers  of  the  Orange  are  white,  odorous, 
in  short  racemes,  towards  the  end  of  the  branches:  its  scent 
has  no  rival,  and  is  said  to  be  as  salutary  as  it  is  delicious,  not 
affecting  the  nerves,  as  that  of  other  flowers,  but  strengthen- 
ing them. 

Know'st  thou  the  land,  where  groves  of  citron  flower, 
The  golden  Orange,  darkling  leaves  embower! 
The  gentle  breezes  wave  the  azure  skies; 
The  myrtle  still,  and  high  the  laurel  rise? 

Know'st  thou  the  land:  Oh  there!  oh  there! 

I  long  with  thee,  my  lov'd  one,  to  repair. 

Oh  there!  oh  there!  Goethe. 

OX  EYE. 

Buphthalmum. 

Buphthalmum,  L.  from  the  Greek  /Sous,  ox,  and  o$3*>.j«°;, 
eye. 

A  genus  of  plants  to  be  found  every  where  between  the 
tropics:  some  of  them  evergreen,  all,  with  yellow  terminal 
flowers.  Herbaceous,  shrubby,  perennial.  Flowers,  a  com- 
mon calyx.  Corolla  compound,  radiate;  florets  of  the  disk 
numerous,  funnel-shaped,  with  a  five-parted,  rather  spreading 
border.  Receptacle  chaffy. 

Ox-Eye,  still  green,  and  bitter  patience. 

Garland  of  Flora. 

PARSLEY. 


Jlpium,  perhaps,  derived  from  Jlpes,  Bees  —  because 
these  insects  are  fond  of  it.  The  genus  Jlpium  includes 
parsley,  small-age,  cellery,  etc.  —  all  umbelliferous  plants. 

Parsley  E.  —  Fr.  persil;  Swedish  persilva;  Danish  pe- 
tersille,  persille;  Greek  n-'Tjoo-sMvav;  VSTI^;  a  stone,  and 
<T£\>vov,  parsley.  —  Stone  parsley  growing  among  rocks. 

Although  parsley  is  so  commonly  used  at  table,  it  is  said 
not  to  agree  with  all  constitutions;  sometimes  occasioning 
epilepsy,  and  producing  inflammation  of  the  eyes. 

[See  Rees'  Cyclopedia.] 

It  has  the  reputation  of  being  a  great  purifier  of  the 
breath  from  the  smoke  of  a  cigar,  etc. 

PASSION  FLOWER. 
Pass  (flora. 

Passiflora,  a  name  altered  by  Linnaeus  from  the  Flos 
Passionis:  derived  from  the  Latin  Patior,  to  suffer,  and 
Flos,  a  flower. 

The  Passion  flowers  are  natives  of  America:  some  of  the 
varieties,  to  the  South,  are  of  a  bright  red  colour:  those  of 
the  North  are,  generally,  pale  blue,  or  yellow. 

It  is  said  that  the  plant  owes  its  name  to  the  missiona- 
ries, who  first  discovered  it  while  travelling  over  the  country. 
The  instruments  of  our  Saviour's  passion,  were  thought  to  be 


represented  by  it.  The  five  stamens  were  compared  to  his  five 
wounds;  the  three  styles,  the  nails  by  which  he  was  fixed  to 
the  cross;  the  column  which  elevates  the  germen,  to  the  cross 
itself;  and  the  rays  of  the  nectary  to  his  crown  of  thorns. 

The  calyx  is  of  one  leaf,  in  five  deep  coloured  segments; 
petals  five,  inserted  into  the  calyx;  nectary  a  complex  radi- 
ating crown;  seeds  with  a  pulpy  tunic,  about  the  size  of  a 
lime. 

The  common  blue  Passion-flower,  P.  Cserulea,  has 
leaves  deeply  palmate,  in  five  smooth  segments. 

High  o'er  the  pointal,  deck'd  with  gold, 

(Emblem  mysterious  to  behold,) 

A  radiant  cross  its  form  expands; 

Its  opening  arms  appear  to  embrace 

The  whole  collective  human  race, 

Refuge  of  all  men,  in  all  lands!  Harte. 

PEA  EVERLASTING. 

Lathyrus  Latifolius. 

Lathyrus,  a  name  adopted  from  Theophrastus,  whose 
Lathuros  appears  evidently  to  be,  like  ours,  something  of  the 
pea  or  vetch  kind. 

The  chief  distinction  between  the  pea  (pisum)  and  the 
vetchling,  (lathynts)  consists  in  the  shaft;  in  the  pea,  it  is 
triangular,  keel-shaped,  and  woolly;  whilst  that  of  the  vetch- 
ling  is  flat  and  upright,  with  a  woolly  summit. 

Pisum  is  said,  by  De  Theis,  to  be  derived  from  the  Cel- 
tic Pisen,  and  that  Pisen  is  the  common  root  of  this  word  in 
all  languages.  Hence  the  Anglo-Saxon  pisa — the  English 
pea,  pease,  and  still  in  obsolete  Norfolk,  peasen;  the  French, 
pois,  pesiere;  Italian,  piso;  Welsh,  pus;  all  synonymous 
with  pisum,  said  by  the  learned  to  be  deduced  from  the  Greek 
3n<r3v,  which  means  the  same  thing. 

The  common  garden  Pea,  Pisum  sativum,  bearing 
pearly-white,  inodorous  flowers.  The  field,  or  grey  pea,  P. 
Jlrvense,  with  solitary  purplish  flowers,  whose  wings  are  of 
a  violet  purple.  The  marrow-fat,  etc.  are  the  esculent  pea 
kinds;  the  roots  annual. 

Vetchling,  or  Vetch,  is  of  common  origin  with  vicia,  an 
old  Latin  name,  derived  by  some  etymologists  from  vincio, 
to  bind  together,  as  the  various  species  of  this  genus  twine, 
with  their  tendrils,  round  other  plants. 

Lathyrus  latifolius,  or  Great  Everlasting  Pea,  well 
known  to  most  people;  cultivated  for  its  flowers:  it  has  roots 
that  endure  for  a  long  course  of  years,  throwing  out  long 
climbing  stems,  which  bear  large  bunches  of  beautiful  crim- 
son flowers;  leaflets  elliptical,  in  pairs;  stem  winged;  peri- 
anth inferior,  of  one  leaf,  bell-shaped;  corona  papilionaceous; 
standard  very  large,  inversely  heart-shaped,  reflexed  at  the 
sides  and  summit;  icings  smaller,  oblong,  somewhat  crescent- 
shaped;  keel  semicircular,  the  size  of  the  wings,  but  broader, 
separating  about  the  middle,  inwards.  Native  of  Europe. 

SWEET  PEA. 
Lathyrus  Odoratus. 

Common  Sweet  Pea,  L.  O.  is  a  hardy  annual,  native  of 
Sicily  and  Ceylon.  Stalks  two-flowered.  Leaflets  ovate, 
oblong,  two  to  each  branched  tendril;  legumes  hairy. 


The  fragrance  of  the  Sweet  Pea  blossom  is  similar  to 
that  of  the  Orange  flowers,  with  a  mixture  of  the  rose.  These 
blossoms  are  peculiar  for  their  elegant  negligence  of  form, 
and  delicacy  and  richness  of  colouring,  varied  with  claret-co- 
lour, blue,  lilac,  rose,  white,  etc .,  all  in  the  same  flower.  It 
is  much  cultivated  by  the  market  florists. 

Here  are  Sweet  Peas,  on  tip-toe  for  a  flight, 

With  wings  of  gentle  flush  o'er  delicate  white, 

And  taper  fingers  catching  at  all  things, 

To  bind  them  all  about,  with  tiny  rings.  Keats. 

PEACH  BLOSSOM. 

Jlmygdalus. 

(For  Amygdalus,  see  Almond.) 

Peach  E. — Fr.  peche;  It.  pesca;  Lat.  malum  persicum, 

a  tree  and  fruit.  See  Webster  and  Johnson. 

The  native  country  of  the  peach  is  not  known.    It  came 

to  the  Remans  from  Persia.  Jlees'  Cy. 

Skinner  tells  us  that  the  name  of  the  fruit,  Peach,  comes 

through  the  French  pesche  or  peche,  and  Italian  pesca,  from 

persica,  in  allusion  to  the  country  of  its  origin. 

PENNYROYAL. 

Cunila  pulegioides,  and  Mentha  pulegium. 

Cunila,  from  the  Gr.  xo»ix«t.  Ainsworth  defines  it  "An 
herb  whereof  there  are  three  sorts,  viz.  savory,  marjoram, 
and  pennyroyal." 

It  may  be  that  the  word  is  derived  from  the  Latin  cunio, 
to  defile,  on  account  of  its  strong  scent,  which  to  many  per- 
sons is  disagreeable. 

Cunila  pulegioides,  the  N.  American  species,  has  stems 
seven  or  eight  inches  high,  erect,  pubescent,  branched;  leaves 
oblong,  two-toothed,  opposite,  smooth  above,  roughish  with 
short  hairs  underneath,  on  short  petioles;  root  annual;  flow- 
crs  in  axillary  whorls,  shorter  than  the  leaves,  continued  from 
the  upper  to  the  lower  pair  of  leaves;  two  lower  divisions  of 
the  calyx  bristle-shaped,  ciliated.  It  has  a  strong  scent,  and 
an  infusion  of  it  is  said  by  Kalm  to  be  used  by  persons  who 
have  taken  cold,  and  have  a  pain  in  their  limbs. 

Mentha,  the  name  of  the  English  plant,  is  an  ancient 
Latin  name,  mostly  written  menta,  adopted  from  the  Greeks, 
whose  /tivSii  (mint)  is  synonymous  with  their  ^Juoovio;  (mint, 
cinnamon)  the  latter  being  generally  used.  See  Dioscorides, 
book  3,  chap.  41. 

The  nymph  JWintha,  a  favourite  of  Pluto,  is  fabled  to 
have  been  changed  by  Proserpine  into  this  herb. 

Our  common  mint,  is  of  this  genus. 

The  Mentha  pulegium,  common  pennyroyal  of  England, 
has  flowers  whorled.  Leaves  ovate.  Stems  prostrate.  Flow- 
er-stalks downy.  Calyx  hairy  all  over,  with  fringed  teeth. 
Corolla  twice  the  length  of  the  calyx;  very  hairy  externally, 
shorter  than  the  stamens.  The  broadest  segment  of  the 
corolla  is  decidedly  cloven,  as  it  ought  to  be  in  the  JVLentha. 
The  flavour  of  pennyroyal  is  peculiarly  strong,  resembling 
Thymus  Nepeta,  but  not  confined  to  these  plants.  Some 
cunilse  have  the  same  scent. 

Class  and  order  of  Mentha,  Didynamia,  Gymnosper- 
mia.  Nat.  Ord.  same  as  Cunila. 


PEONY. 
Pseonia. 

Pseonia,  in  memory  of  Paeon,  the  physician,  whom  Ho- 
mer records  as  having  cured  Pluto  with  this  herb,  when  he 
was  wounded  by  Hercules. 

Pseon  was  a  pupil  of  JEsculapius,  who,  being  jealous  on 
account  of  this  famous  cure,  is  said  to  have  secretly  caused 
the  death  of  Pseon;  but  Pluto,  in  gratitude,  changed  him 
into  the  flower  which  bears  his  name,  and  which  has  been 
celebrated  throughout  all  antiquity,  for  its  wonderful  virtues; 
protecting  persons  from  enchantment,  driving  away  evil  spi- 
rits, etc. 

The  superb  double  crimson  Peony  of  our  gardens,  P. 
ojfficinalis,  is  a  native  of  Switzerland  and  the  Alps.  Calyx 
of  five  leaves;  petals  roundish,  concave,  contracted  at  their 
base,  spreading,  very  large,  terminal,  solitary;  stem  herba- 
ceous, annual,  two  feet  high,  with  large  spreading,  compound, 
dark-green  leaves;  the  root  perennial. 

There  might  ye  see  the  Peony  spreading  wide. 

Cowper. 

PERIWINKLE. 

Vinca. 

Vinca,  the  best  derivation  may,  perhaps,  be  from  Vin- 
cio,  to  bind,  or  wrap  up:  because  its  long,  trailing,  or  twin- 
ing branches,  wind  themselves  around,  and  entangle  every 
other  plant  in  their  way.  Rees1  Cyclopedia. 

Periwinkle,  Latin,  Vinca,  Sax.  Wincle,  a  shell-fish. 
2.  A  plant  of  the  genus  Vinca.  [See  Webster.] 

Skinner  says:  "Perwinkle,  or  Periwinkle,  Clematis 
Daphnoides — Anglo-Saxon,  Perwinc,  Peruince,  barbarous 
Latin,  Vinca,  Pervinca,  so  called,  perhaps,  because  Vincit, 
it  binds  up — that  is,  stops  the  flowing  of  wounds,  and  some 
other  hemorrhages;  or,  according  to  Lobelius,  because  it 
always  flourishes,  and  conquers,  and  overcomes  continually 
(vincit  and  pervincif)  the  injuries  of  the  air. 

In  France,  the  Periwinkle  has  been  made  the  emblem 
of  "the  pleasures  of  memory,"  and  sincere  friendship.  Pos- 
sibly in  allusion  to  Rosseau's  recollection  of  his  friend  Madam 
de  Warrens,  after  the  lapse  of  thirty  years,  produced  by  the 
sight  of  the  flower  they  had  admired  together. 

The  general  character  of  this  genus,  is  a  perianth,  in- 
ferior, of  one  leaf;  corolla  monopetalous,  contorted,  salver- 
shaped,  inferior. 

The  Vinca  minor,  found  in  every  garden,  with  scent- 
less flowers,  of  a  deep  blue,  white  in  the  centre — or  white 
flowers,  with  a  variegated  leaf— both  perennial;  stems  erect; 
while  in  flower  they  become  trailing,  creeping  extensively; 
leaves  evergreen,  opposite,  about  an  inch  long,  elliptic-lan- 
ceolate, smooth  at  the  edges.  Native  of  Egypt. 

V.  Rosea,  Madagascar  Periwinkle,  has  an  erect,  shrub- 
by stem;  flowers  sessile  in  pairs;  leaves  elliptic-oblong,  en- 
tire, rather  downy,  bluntish,  two  inches  long.  Native  of  the 
East  Indies,  now  become  a  popular  green-house  plant,  flow- 
ering the  greater  part  of  the  year;  corolla  either  rose  colour, 
or  pure  white;  the  centre  always  of  a  peculiarly  rich  crimson, 
with  a  yellow  eye. 


PHLOX. 

Phlox—  Greek  <px.5«—  the  PAZoz  of  Theophrastus.  The 
name  is  synonymous  with  flame;  alluding,  as  is  supposed,  to 
the  bright  colour,  or  fiery  hue  of  some  of  the  species. 

The  genus  was  termed  Lychnidea,  by  Plukenet  and  Dil- 
lenius,  because  of  its  resemblance  to  Lychnis.  But  a  name 
so  constructed,  being  against  all  rule,  Linnaeus  evidently  took 
up  the  idea  of  Luchnis  (Lychnis)  as  alluding  either  to  the 
shape  or  to  the  wick  of  a  lamp,  (see  Lychnis)  and  adopted 
Phlox,  as  a  word  nearly  expressive  of  the  same  thing. 

Fourteen  species  of  this  handsome  tribe  have  been  enu- 
merated. All,  except  Ph.  Sibirica,  are  natives  of  N.  Ame- 
rica; and,  as  far  as  we  know,  of  no  other  country. 

Rees'  Cyclopedia. 

The  flowers  are  showy,  of  various  hues  of  purple,  or 
pink;  and,  in  one  instance,  of  a  brilliant  white,  as  in  the  PA. 
Suaveolens,  fragrant  white  Phlox. 

Ph.  Paniculata,  Great  Common  Phlox,  or  Panicled 
Lychnidea,  has  blossoms  of  a  fine  lilac  hue;  scentless. 

Ph.  Pyramidalis,  Pyramidal  Phlox,  has  flowers  in  a 
dense  pyramidal  cluster,  of  a  rich  purple;  honey-scented; 
stem  purple-spotted :  a  very  ornamental  species. 

Ph.  jyiaculata,  Spotted-stalked  Lychnidea,  or  Wild 
Sweet  William,  is  a  more  slender  and  narrow-leafed  species, 
frequent  in  our  gardens;  distinguished  from  the  last  named, 
by  the  recurved  teeth  of  its  calyx. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  a  corolla  salver-shaped, 
monopetalous;  calyx  of  one  leaf,  tubular,  with  five  angles, 
and  five  deep  acute  teeth,  permanent;  perennial,  herbaceous, 
entire  leafed. 

PINE. 
Finns. 

Linnseus  places  Pinus  amongst  ancient  Latin  names,  of 
unknown  origin.  Rees*  Cyclopedia. 

Pinus,  Latin,  from  the  Greek  riim?,  which,  according  to 
Schrevelius,  comes  from  the  Greek  adjective  riioi/,  signifying 
fat,  because  the  tree  abounds  in  rezin — resin. 

Pine,  Fr.  pin;  Sp.  It.  pino;  L,.pinus;  Sax.  pinntreow, 
pin-tree;  Dutch,  pyn-boom;  Welsh,  pin-bren,  pin-tree,  and 
pin-gwyz,  pin-wood.  These  words  all  indicate  that  this 
name  is  from  the  leaves  of  the  pine,  which  resemble  pins. 

Webster. 

According  to  Heathen  mythology,  the  pine  was  sacred 
to  Rhea,  mother  of  Jupiter.  (Rhea,  one  of  the  names  under 
which  the  earth  was  worshipped.) 

"  To  Rhea,  grateful  still  the  pine  remains." 

Congreve's  Ovid. 

Lempriere  tells  us,  that  Jltys,  a  celebrated  shepherd  of 
Phrygia,  much  esteemed  by  Cybcle,  (Cybele,  same  as  Rhea, 
Vesta,  Ceres,  etc.)  because  he  had  introduced  her  worship 
and  festivals  into  Asia  Minor,  was,  after  his  death,  changed 
into  a  Pi?ie  tree,  by  Cybele,  and,  ever  after,  that  tree  was 
sacred  to  the  mother  of  the  gods. 

Pan,  one  of  the  rural  deities,  was  crowned  with  Pine.. 
He  was  in  love  with  the  nymph  Syrinx,  who  was  transformed 
into  a  bundle  of  reeds,  from  which  Pan  afterwards  formed  the 
musical  instrument  called  Syrinx,  or  Pan's  pipes. 


"  A  crown  of  Pine  upon  his  head  he  wore ; 

And  thus  began  her  pity  to  implore." 

Dry  den's  Ovid. 

Black  Spruce  Pine,  P.  JV7gra,  to  be  found  from  Cana- 
da to  Carolina.  The  black,  or  double  spruce,  Jlbies  Jfigra, 
of  Michaux — the  young  branches  of  which  are  used  in 
making  the  well  known  spruce  beer.  The  leaves  are  of  a 
dark,  gloomy  green;  cones  ovate,  hardly  above  an  inch  long, 
crowded  about  the  sides  of  the  last  year's  shoots,  which  have 
protruded  beyond  them,  and  before  they  become  dry,  are  of 
a  rich  purple. 

Pinus  rigida,  is  known  all  over  the  United  States,  by 
the  name  of  pitch  pine — sometimes  in  Virginia  called  black 
pine.  The  spines  of  the  cones  being  reflexed,  not  inflexed, 
will,  at  any  time,  distinguish  them. 

Pinus  Jlbies,  Norway  Spruce  Fir,  much  cultivated  as 
an  ornament  in  gardens,  etc.  The  long,  sweeping,  fan-like 
branches,  often  borne  down  by  loads  of  snow,  have  a  beauti- 
ful appearance.  The  leaves  are  copiously  scattered  all 
around  the  branches,  ascending,  somewhat  imbricated,  each 
scarcely  an  inch  long,  on  a  short  stalk.  Cones  pendulous, 
solitary  at  the  end  of  each  branch,  a  span  long,  nearly  cylin- 
drical, light  brown,  smooth,  of  numerous,  flattish,  rigid,  rhom- 
boid scales,  waved  at  the  edge,  and  notched  at  the  point. 
The  Burgundy  pitch  is  prepared  from  this  species. 

PINK. 

Dianthus. 

Dianthus  L.  from  the  Greek  j(S  J.o;,  Jove,  and  an&o?,  a 
flower.  A  name  given  by  Linnzeus  to  the  pink  and  carna- 
tion genus,  and  which  signifies  Jove's  flower. 

"  Pink,  English;  Pince,  French,  from  pink,  Dutch,  an 
eye:  whence  the  French  word  cellet,  i.e.  eyelet;  Caryophil- 
lum,  Latin."  Johnson. 

The  primitive  pink  is  simple,  red,  or  white,  and  scented; 
by  culture  the  petals  have  been  enlarged  and  multiplied,  and 
its  colour  infinitely  varied. 

With  hues  on  hues  expression  cannot  paint, 
The  breath  of  Nature  and  her  endless  bloom. 

Thomson. 

Each  Pink  sends  forth  its  choicest  sweet 

Aurora's  warm  embrace  to  meet.  M.  Robinson. 

Florists  designate  two  principal  subdivisions,  Carna- 
tions and  Pinks.  The  latter  are  distinguished  by  an  eye- 
like  spot,  and  a  more  humble  growth,  and  by  some  asserted  to 
be  a  distinct  species. 

Carnation. 

Spencer  writes  it  Coronation,  probably  because  they 
were  used  on  such  festive  occasions;  and  from  hence,  proba- 
bly, the  present  name. 

Bring  Coronations,  and  sops  in  wine, 

Worn  of  paramours.  Spencer. 

It  was  also  called  "Clove-Gtily  flmcer,"  from  its  clove- 


•*•• 


like  scent:  and  "sops  in  wine,"  as  it  was  frequently  used  to 
flavour  liquors  and  choice  dishes;  being  thought  medicinal,  as 
well  as  agreeable.  Hence,  also,  its  modern  specific  name, 
from  Caryophyllum,  Latin  for  a  clove . 

Some  derive  the  English  name  Carnation,  from  Carries, 
Latin,  for  flesh  colour,  which  may  have  been  the  predomi- 
nant original  colour  of  the  flower. 

"  Carnation'd  like  a  sleeping  infant's  cheek." 

Byron. 

The  floieer  of  the  Carnation  is,  sometimes,  more  than 
three  inches  in  diameter.  The  petals  crenate,  but  less 
fringed,  or  notched,  than  those  of  the  pink — sometimes  not 
at  all  so.  The  calyx  more  than  an  inch  in  length,  termi- 
nating with  broad  points,  calyx-scales,  somewhat  rhomboid, 
very  short. 

Indian  Pink;  or,  China  Pink. 

Its  flowers  placed  singly  on  branching  stems,  like  those 
of  the  common  pink,  of  glowing  vivid  red  colours.  The 
marks  of  colouring  most  beautiful,  in  its  single  state,  ob- 
scured when  the  petals  multiply.  It  is  scentless,  and  gene- 
rally considered  as  an  annual;  but  the  plant  may  be  pre- 
served several  years  in  a  dry  loamy  soil,  by  cutting  down 
their  flower-stalks  before  the  seeds  ripen.  They  require  but 
little  water. 

Mountain  Pink.     Grey-leafed;  or,  Chedder  Pink. 

From  its  being  observed  to  grow  chiefly  on  Chedder- 
rocks,  near  the  village  of  Chedder,  in  England.  Native  of 
lime-stone  rocks  and  mountains.  The  leaves  are  very  glau- 
ceous;  flowers  pale  pink,  very  sweet-scented;  of  an  humble 
growth,  but  aspiring  ambition  as  to  situation.  Csesius,  Latin, 
alludes  to  the  grey  colour  of  its  herbage. 

Red  Pink. 

The  double,  of  an  uniform  colour,  without  blotches,  de- 
signated. 

Pinks  have  a  cylindrical  calyx  of  one  leaf,  divided  into 
five  teeth  at  the  orifice,  two  pair  of  scales  at  their  base. 
Corolla,  in  its  single  state,  of  five  petals,  with  long  claws 
tapering  downwards,  inserted  into  the  receptacle;  borders 
horizontally  spreading,  wedge-shaped,  abrupt,  crenate,  or 
notched. 

PLEURISY  ROOT. 

Jisclepias 

Jlsclepias,  from  JEsculapius,  the  god  of  medicine,  who 
is  said  to  have  discovered  the  virtues  of  the  plants  of  this 
genus,  and  to  whom  one  of  the  species  was  anciently  conse- 
crated. 

The  English  name  Swallow-wort,  applied  to  the  whole 
genus,  is  from  the  Dutch  Swaluw-wortel — from  the  fancied 
resemblance  of  the  seeds  to  a  swallow  flying.  The  seeds  are 
winged,  as  those  of  many  other  flowers,  which  facilitates 
their  dissemination,  being  more  easily  borne  off  by  the  wind. 

The  United  States  furnishes  the  greatest  variety  of  this 
beautiful  and  useful  genus  of  plants.  The  tender  shoots  of 
some  are  eaten  as  asparagus.  The  down  furnishes  a  silk 


or  cotton  used  in  making  mattresses,  and  manufactured  in 
various  ways.  The  root  is  in  great  repute  in  the  materia 
medica. 

The  Jlsclepias  Tuberosa  (or  Tuberous-rooted  Swallow 
wort)  is  variously  denominated,  as  Pleurisy;  or  Ache-in-the- 
side  plant,  from  its  medicinal  virtues:  Butterfly-weed,  from 
its  being  a  favourite  resort  of  the  insects  of  that  tribe,  etc. 
Its  flowers  are  of  a  bright  orange  colour;  stems  a  foot 
high,  hairy,  round,  dusky  red;  leaves  alternate,  lanceolate. 
Native  of  Virginia,  and  cultivated  in  the  royal  garden  at 
Hampton  court,  in  England. 

The  Ji.  Decumbens  has,  also,  bright  orange  coloured 
flowers;  stem  decumbent,  a  foot  and  a  half  high,  hairy; 
leaves  narrow,  flat,  opposite;  umbel  compact,  at  the  extremi- 
ty of  the  branches. 

There  are  rose-coloured  varieties,  white,  etc.  The  ge- 
neral character  of  their  flowers  is,  a  calyx  five-cleft,  sharp, 
very  small,  permanent;  corolla  monopetalous,  flat,  or  reflex, 
five-parted;  nectaries  five,  growing  to  the  tube  of  the  fila- 
ments, putting  forth  a  sharp  little  horn,  protruding  from  the 
bottom,  bending  inwards. 

The  Jlsclepias  Syriaca,  or  Syrian  Swallow  wort,  abun- 
dant in  North  America,  is  much  used  in  medicine,  as  an  al- 
terative, tonic,  etc.  the  whole  plant  filled  with  a  milky  juice, 
perfectly  harmless.  Flowers  of  a  dingy  purple,  succeeded 
by  large  oval  pods.  It  is  the  shoots  of  this  plant,  more  par- 
ticularly, that  is  made  a  substitute  for  asparagus.  The  Cana- 
dians are  said  to  make  sugar  from  its  flowers,  and  to  prefer 
the  cotton  of  this  species. 

Jlsclepias  incarnata,  flesh  coloured  swallow-wort. 
Leaves  lanceolate;  stem  divided  at  the  top;  umbels  erect, 
twin.  This  puts  out  several  upright  stalks  about  two  feet 
high;  at  the  top  of  which  are  produced  close  umbels  of  pink 
flowers  in  August. 

POLYANTHOS. 

Primula. 
(See  Primrose.) 

Polyanthos,  a  word  used  in  general  to  denote  a  plant 
which  bears  several  or  more  flowers.  It  is  compounded  from 
the  Greek  B-SJ.V;,  much,  many,  and  av5os,  a  flower.  The 
Polyanthos,  like  the  Auricula,  produces  an  umbel  of  many 
flowers  on  one  common  scape  or  stem. 

Those  most  admired,  are  shaded  with  a  dark  rich  crim- 
son, resembling  velvet,  with  bright  golden  yellow  edges. 


"  Cinque  spotted  like  the  crimson  drops 
P  the  bottom  of  a  cowslip. 

Bring  the  rathe  Primrose  that  forsaken  dies, 


Shaks. 


With  cowslips  wan  that  hang  the  pensive  head, 
And  every  flower  that  sad  embroidery  wears. 

Milton's  Lycidas. 

And  Polyanthos  of  unnumber'd  dyes.  Thomson. 

The  love-sick  cowslip,  that  head  inclines, 

To  hide  a  bleeding  heart.  Hurdis. 


POMEGRANATE. 
Punica. 

Punica,  the  malum  punicum  of  the  ancients,  so  called, 
it  is  presumed,  because  the  Romans  first  obtained  this  fruit 
from  the  north  of  Africa.  It  was  sometimes  called  malum 
granatum,  in  allusion  to  its  internal  granulations — whence  its 
English  name  Pomegranate. 

Punica  L.  from  Pseni,  the  Carthagenians. 

Ainsworth  defines  punica — 1.  Of  Africa — 2.  Red,  scar- 
let colour.  • 

Gen.  cha.  of  the  flowers — calyx,  superior  of  one  leaf, 
bell-shaped,  coloured,  permanent,  in  five  acute  segments. 
Corolla  of  five  petals,  roundish,  rather  spreading,  inserted 
into  the  calyx.  There  is  a  beautiful  double  variety,  valued 
on  account  of  their  flowers. 


The  punic  granite  op'd  its  rose-like  flowers; 
The  orange  breath'd  its  aromatic  powers. 


Harte. 


POPPY. 
Papaver. 

Papaver,  according  to  the  most  learned  etymologists, 
because  the  flowers,  or  fruit,  of  this  plant  was  formerly  mixed 
with  the  pap,  or  papa,  given  to  children  in  order  to  procure 
sleep. 

This  genus  is  so  variously  diversified,  that  two  plants  are 
seldom  alike  in  their  flowers. 

In  the  time  of  Gesner,*  the  village  Damons  and  Phyl- 
lises  proved  the  sincerity  of  their  lovers  by  placing  a  petal  of 
the  poppy  in  the  hollow  of  the  palm  of  the  left  hand ;  which, 
on  being  struck  by  the  other  hand,  gave  a  sound  that  denoted 
true  attachment,  or  faithlessness,  when  it  failed  to  snap. 

"  By  a  prophetic  poppy-leaf  I  found 
Your  changed  affection,  for  it  gave  no  sound, 
Though  in  my  hand  struck  hollow  as  it  lay, 
But  quickly  withered,  like  your  love,  away." 

The  largest  heads  of  the  single  flowering  white  poppies 
are  preferred  for  the  making  of  opium.  These,  being  wound- 
ed as  they  grow,  yield  a  milky  juice,  which,  by  drying,  be- 
comes opium. 

Ceres  is  supposed  to  have  given  rise  to  the  poppy  to 
assuage  her  grief,  during  her  search  after  her  daughter  Pro- 
serpine, who  was  carried  away  by  Pluto. 


Indulgent  Ceres  knew  my  worth, 
And  to  adorn  the  teeming  earth, 
She  bade  the  poppy  rise. 


Cowley. 


Sleep-bringing  poppy,  by  the  ploughman  late, 
Not  without  cause,  to  Ceres  consecrate. 

W.  Browne. 

*  Gesner  was  pronounced  to  be  "  the  greatest  Naturalist  the  world 
had  seen  since  Aristotle;  the  first  who  ever  collected  a  museum  of  natu- 
ral history,  and  the  discoverer  of  the  only  true  principles  of  botanical 
arrangement  in  the  flower  and  fruit,  to  which  the  very  existence  of  bo- 
tany, as  a  science,  is  owing,"  born  at  Zurich,  in  1516,  and  lived  to  the 
age  of  forty-nine. 


The  herb  of  the  White  Poppy,  P.  Somniferum,  is 
erect,  branched,  very  glaucous,  with  broad,  obtuse,  simple, 
wavy  leaves,  clasping  the  stem,  the  upper  part  of  which  is 
clothed  with  coarse,  spreading  hairs;  calyx  smooth,  of  two 
leaves;  petals  nearly  globose;  root  annual. 

From  a  poppy  I  have  taken 
Mortals'  balm,  and  mortals'  bane: 
Juice,  that  creeping  through  the  heart, 
Deadens  ev'ry  sense  of  smart; 
Doom'd  to  heal,  or  doom'd  to  kill, 
Fraught  with  good,  or  fraught  with  ill. 

Mrs.  M.  Robinson. 

JVoa;  (or  Night)  daughter  of  Chaos,  was  crowned  with 
poppies. 

PRIDE  OF  CHINA. 

JYIelia  Jlzedarach. 

Jftelia,  a  name  adopted  by  Linnccus  for  this  tree;  appa- 
rently because  its  leaves  resemble  those  of  the  Jlsh,  It  is  a 
native  of  Syria:  thrives  well  in  our  Southern  States. 

The  pulp  which  surrounds  the  nut  is  said  to  be  poison- 
ous; but  the  berries,  when  ripe,  are  eagerly  sought  for  and 
eaten  by  cattle  and  birds,  particularly  the  red-breast,  without 
any  ill  effect.  The  bark  of  its  roots  and  branches  is  esteem- 
ed an  effectual  vermifuge. 

In  the  southern  parts  of  Europe,  the  nuts  are  threaded 
for  beads,  to  assist  the  devotion  of  good  Catholics;  for  which 
purpose  they  are  peculiarly  suited,  having  a  natural  perfora- 
tion through  the  centre.  •  Hence  the  tree  has  been  called  Jlr- 
bor  Sancta;  and  by  the  Spaniards  Jlrbol  Parayso.  It  has, 
also,  the  English  names  of  Bead-tree,  or  Pride  of  India. 

The  flowers  have  a  reddish  lilac  hue:  they  form  axillary 
clusters  at  the  extremity  of  the  branches,  and  exhale  a  deli- 
cious odour.  Calyx  of  one  leaf,  five-toothed;  petals  five;  nec- 
tary cylindrical,  toothed  at  its  mouth,  bearing  anthers;  drupa 
a  nut  of  five  cells;  leaflets  ovate,  notched,  pointed,  bright 
green  above,  paler  beneath, 

EVENING  PRIMROSE. 

(Enothera. 

(Enothera,  L.,  from  the  Greek  oiws,  wine,  and  3->ij«,  a 
searching  or  catching,  bestowed  upon  the  plant  on  account 
of  the  root  having  caught  the  perfume  of  wine,  from  being 
dried. 

The  (Enothera  Biennis,  or  Tree  Primrose,  is  a  North 
American  plant,  with  a  stem  two  or  three  feet  high,  some- 
times branched,  leafy,  angular,  rough,  with  minute  tubercles, 
'hairy;  leaves  alternate,  ovate,  or  lanceolate,  toothed,  downy; 
the  lowest  stalked,  longer,  and  somewhat  waved;  flowers 
sessile  in  the  bosoms  of  the  upper  leaves,  so  as  to  form  a  large 
spike;  of  a  fine  pale  yellow,  delicately  fragrant;  expanding  in 
the  evening.  The  unfolding  of  the  petals  is  so  sudden,  as  to 
cause  an  audible  sound,  from  the  separation  of  the  calyx- 
leaves  suddenly  appearing  in  a  cup  shape,  progressively  ex- 
panding, until  they  become  quite  flat;  biennial. 

You  Evening  Primroses,  when  day  has  fled, 

Open  your  pallid  flowers,  by  dew  and  moonlight  fed. 

Barton. 


(Enothera  sheaths  in  many  a  fold, 
Of  primrose  scent  and  hue  her  fainter  gold, 
Nor  yet  unbinds  the  firmly  clasping  zone, 
Till  eve's  mild  lustre  mingles  with  her  own. 


The  primrose,  tenant  of  the  glade, 
Emblem  of  virtue  in  the  shade. 


Jno.  Mayne. 


Evans. 


A  tuft  of  Evening  primroses, 
O'er  which  the  wind  may  hover  till  it  dozesj 
O'er  which  it  well  might  take  a  pleasant  sleep, 
But,  that  'tis  ever  startled  by  the  leap 
Of  buds  into  ripe  flowers.  Keats. 

(Enothera  Odorata,  Sweet-scented,  or  Curl-leafed  Even- 
ing Primrose,  was  introduced  into  England  by  Sir  J.  Banks, 
from  the  coast  of  Patagonia,  and  seems  to  be  likely  to  super- 
sede the  other  species.  It  is  a  tolerably  hardy  perennial 
plant — the  stem  of  which  does  not  die  completely  down; 
beautiful  with  its  waved  foliage,  yellow  blossoms,  and  desira- 
ble for  its  perfume.  Its  flowers  expand,  also,  only  in  the 
evening. 


Than  vainer  flowers — tho'  sweeter  far, 

The  Evening  Primrose  shuns  the  day  5 
Blossoms  only  to  the  western  star, 


And  loves  its  solitary  ray. 


Dr.  Langfwrne. 


And  one,  who  mark'd  with  depth  of  thought, 
How  the  bright  day-flowers  droop  away, 

An  Evening  primrose  only  bought, 
Which  opens  at  the  close  of  day. 

Judgment  of  Flowers. 

(Enothera  pumila,  Dwarf  CEnothera,  is  another  North 
American  species:  the  smallest  of  the  genus  with  small  yel- 
low sessile,  spiked  flowers,  which  remain  expanded  in  the 
day  as  well  as  evening.  Perennial  root;  stems  scarcely  a 
foot  high,  smooth,  reddish;  leaves  sessile,  light  green,  tinged 
with  red  at  their  points,  rather  blunt. 

There  are  also  varieties  of  purple,  pink,  etc. 

PRIMROSE,  PURPLE. 
Primula. 

Primula,  from  primus,  first,  a  name  given  to  this  genus 
from  their  early  bloom,  being  the  first  offering  of  Spring. 

The  Cowslip,  Polyanthus,  Primrose,  Auricula,  etc.,  are 
all  of  this  family. 

The  primrose  was  anciently  called  Paralisos,  the  name 
of  a  beautiful  youth,  son  of  Priapus  and  Flora,  who  died  of 
grief  for  the  loss  of  his  betrothed  Melicerta,  and  by  his  pa- 
rents was  metamorphosed  into  this  flower,  which  has  since 
divided  the  favour  of  the  poets,  with  the  Violet  and  the  Rose. 

Beneath  the  sylvan  canopy,  the  ground 

Glitters  with  flowery  dyes;  the  primrose  first 

In  mossy  dell,  return  of  Spring  to  greet.  Gisborne. 

The  primrose  pale,  is  Nature's  meek  and  modest  child. 

Balfour. 


The  general  character  of  the  flowers  of  the  genus  pri- 
mula, is  a  calyx  of  one  leaf,  tubular,  with  five  angles,  and 
five  acute  upright  teeth,  permanent;  corolla  monopetalous, 
tube  cylindrical;  limb  spreading,  cut  halfway  down  into  five 
heart-shaped  segments. 

PRIVET. 

Ligustrum. 

Ligustrum,  a  name  found  in  Pliny,  and  other  Latin  wri- 
ters, by  which  the  Oriental  Cypros  [Lawsonia  inermis] 
seems  originally  to  have  been  intended,  but  which  is,  now, 
universally  received  for  our  Privet. 

The  species  generally  cultivated  is  the  common  Privet, 
L.  vulgaris.  A  shrub  of  five  or  six  feet  high;  white  Jlow- 
ers; perianth  inferior,  of  one  leaf,  tubular,  very  small;  co- 
rolla monopetalous,  funnel-shaped,  four-cleft;  berries  dark 
purple,  very  bitter,  like  the  foliage  and  bark:  almost  ever- 
green. It  was  formerly  known  by  the  name  of  print,  or 
prim-print,  probably  from  its  neat  and  regular  appearance, 
when  clipped  and  trimmed. 

QUAMOCLIT. 
Ipomxa. 

Ipomxa,  a  name  given  by  Linnxus,  which  he  derived 
from  the  Greek  14/5  and  o^on;,  like:  by  which  appellation  he 
evidently  intended  to  express  the  close  resemblance  of  the 
present  plant  to  Convolvulus.  It  has  been  remarked,  that 
Linnaeus  mistook  the  meaning  of  the  first  Greek  word,  ly — 
which  signifies  a  creeping  sort  of  worm  that  infests  and  cor- 
rodes vines,  and  not  the  Convolvulus  plant. 

Quamoclit,  an  Indian  name,  retained  by  Plumier,  and 
Tournefort  as  generic — but,  by  Linnaeus  used  only  as  the  spe- 
cific appellation  of  a  beautiful  species  of  Ipomaea,  popularly 
denominated  busy-body.  It  is  an  East  Indian  vine,  remark- 
able for  its  finely  pectinated  leaves  and  rich  crimson  blossoms. 
This  winged-leaf  Ipoma;a  has  a  calyx  deeply  five-cleft, 
naked.  Corolla  monopetalous,  funnel,  or  bell-shaped;  limb 
five-cleft,  spreading,  with  five  plaits;  capsule  of  two  or  three 
cells;  seeds  two  in  each  cell. 

There  are  two  other  varieties,  with  white  and  orange 
coloured  flowers. 

QUEEN'S  ROCKET. 

Hesperis. 
(See  also  Rocket.) 

Hesperis,  the  Esperos,  or  Evening  flower  of  Pliny. 
The  ancients  named  this  family  of  plants  from  Hesper,  or 
Vesper,  Latin,  or  ET^OS,  Greek,  signifying  Evening — be- 
cause they  do  not  discharge  their  perfume  until  the  evening, 
reserving  their  fragrance  for  vesper  hours. 

The  Rocket  was  deemed  sacred  to  Priapus,  the  god  who 
presided  over  gardens  and  orchards.  One  of  its  reputed  pro- 
perties is,  to  raise  the  passions  and  to  excite  love. 

The  Hesperis  Matronalis,  Queen's  Gilly-flower,  or 
Purple  Dame's  Violet,  has  pale  purple  flowers,  very  abundant, 
exhaling,  only  in  the  evening,  a  very  sweet  perfume  like  that 


of  a  pink  or  stock.  leaves  ovate,  lanceolate,  finely  toothed; 
calyx  of  four  leaflets,  cohering,  longitudinally,  incumbent  at 
the  top,  opening  at  the  bottom,  deciduous,  having  two  of  its 
leaves  gibbous  at  the  base;  corolla  of  four  cruciform,  oblong 
petals,  bent  obliquely,  with  attenuated  claws,  the  length  of 
the  calyx.  The  whole  plant  clothed  with  short  hairs.  There 
is  a  variety  with  white  flowers, 

That  keep 

Their  odour  to  themselves  all  day; 
But  when  the  sun-light  dies  away, 
Let  the  delicious  secret  out 
To  every  breeze  that  roams  about.  -Moore. 

RAGGED  ROBIN. 

Lychnis.   Flos  Cuculi. 

(For  Lychnis,  its  generic  name,  see  Scarlet  Lychnis.) 

Flos  Cuculi,  or  Cuckoo-flower,  Meadow  Pink,  Ragged 
Robin,  is  a  species  of  Lychnis  which  has  had  the  last  witty 
name  given  to  it,  on  account  of  the  finely  cut  or  ragged  ap- 
pearance of  its  petals.  And  Cuckoo-flower,  in  common  with 
several  other  plants  that  blossom  about  the  time  this  welcome 
and  merry  messenger  of  spring  begins  to  sing. 

The  root  is  perennial;  stem  about  eighteen  inches  high, 
with  rough  angles,  viscid  above;  leaves  narrow;  panicles 
forked;  corolla  of  five  petals,  in  four  deep  linear  segments; 
pink,  very  delicate,  with  a  brown,  angular,  smooth  calyx  of 
one  leaf.  There  is  a  double  variety,  as  also  a  white  one. 

(For  Ranunculus,  see  Butter-cup.) 

ROCKET. 

Hesperis  inodora. 
(See  Queen's  Rocket.) 

Hesperis  inodora,  the  common  English  garden  Rocket, 
or  scentless  dame's  violet,  resembles  the  sweet-scented  Italian 
Rocket  H.  Matronalis,  in  all  except  its  fragrance.  It  is  a 
biennial  plant,  which  thrives  well  in  fresh  unmixed  earth; 
stable  litter  does  not  suit  it. 

The  English  name  Rocket,  seems  to  have  come  to  us 
through  the  Lacin  Eruca,  which  signifies  canker-worm,  as 
well  as  the  name  of  this  plant.  And  this  may  have  been  sup- 
posed applicable  to  it,  from  its  often  perishing,  without  any 
known  or  visible  cause. 


Which,  on  the  white  rose,  being  shed, 
Made  it  for  ever  after  red. 


Herrick. 


In  rival  pomp,  see  either  rocket  blow 
Bright  as  the  sun,  or  as  the  new-fallen  snow. 


Evans. 


ROSE. 
Rosa. 

Rosa,  derived,  with  most  probability,  from  the  Celtic 
ros,  or  rhos.  De  Theis  remarks,  that  the  Celtic  rhodd  or 
rhudd,  red,  is  the  primary  root  of  these  words,  the  rose  colour 
being  almost  synonymous  with  redness- 

The  Rose  was  consecrated  to  Venus:  and,  according  to 
ancient  fable,  to  her  may  be  traced  the  red  colour  of  the  rose. 
When  flying  to  the  relief  of  her  beloved  Adonis,  a  thorn 
pierced  her  delicate  foot,  causing  the  blood  to  flow. 


Its  beautiful  tint  is  poetically  traced  to  another  source, 
by  a  modern  poet: 

As  erst,  in  Eden's  blissful  bowers, 
Young  Eve  survey'd  her  countless  flowers, 
An  opening  Rose  of  purest  white, 
She  mark'd  with  eye  that  beam'd  delight, 
Its  leaves  she  kiss'd,  and  straight  it  drew 


From  beauty's  lip  the  vermil  hue. 


J.  Carey. 


Since  first  it  bloomed  in  Eden's  bowers, 

The  Rose  is  termed  the  queen  ofjlowers.        Ba\four. 


Their  smell  divine,  their  colour  strangely  red. 


Cowley. 


Its  breath 

Is  rich  beyond  the  rest;  and  when  it  dies 
It  doth  bequeath  a  charm  to  sweeten  death. 

Flood  of  Thessaly.    G.  of  Flora. 

The  genus  is  too  extensive  for  an  attempt  at  description, 
in  detail,  and  I  find  it  necessary  to  suppress  the  appropriate 
notice  of  each,  in  their  turn,  of  those  before  me;  confining 
myself  to  only  a  few  of  the  most  interesting  species.  Among 
these  I  cannot  forbear  to  notice  the  JVfoss  Rose,  if  only  for 
the  purpose  of  introducing  the  fanciful  origin  of  its  pre-emi- 
nence in  beauty. 

The  Angel  of  the  flowers  one  day, 

Beneath  a  Rose  Tree  sleeping  lay; 

That  spirit,  to  whose  charge  is  given, 

To  bathe  young  buds  in  dews  from  Heaven : 

Awaking  from  his  light  repose, 

The  angel  whispered  to  the  Rose, 

"Oh!  fondest  object  of  my  care, 

Still  fairest  found  where  all  are  fair, 

For  the  sweet  shade  thou'st  given  to  me, 

Ask  what  thou  wilt,  'tis  granted  thee." 

"  Then,"  said  the  Rose,  with  deepening  glow, 

(<  On  me  another  grace  bestow :" 

The  spirit  paused,  in  silent  thought, — 

What  grace  was  there  that  flower  had  not? 

'Twas  but  a  moment — o'er  the  Rose, 

A  veil  of  J\to88  the  Angel  throws; 

And,  robed  in  Nature's  simplest  weed, 

Could  there  a  flower  that  Rose  exceed? 

Monthly  Anthology-     G.  qf  Flora. 

There  is  another  strongly  marked  variety  in  the  Thorn- 
less  Rose. — Lemaistre,  in  his  touching  tale  of  the  "Leper 
of  Jlostj'  tells  us  that  the  thorns  are  produced  by  cultiva- 
tion— this  is,  I  believe,  contrary  to  the  received  opinion: — 
his  theory,  however,  naturally  suggested  the  emblem  of  in- 
gratitude, which  has  been  adopted.  This  too,  it  must  be 
confessed,  is  a  wide  departure  from  the  ideas  usually  asso- 


elated  with  o  rose  without  a  thorn,  which  would  more  na- 
turally present  the  image  of  happiness  without  alloy. 

In  the  "  Legend  of  the  Rose,"  we  find  another  account 
of  the  armour  by  which  this  plant  is  defended: 

Young  Love,  rambling  through  the  wood, 
Found  me  in  my  solitude — 
Bright  with  dew,  and  freshly  blown, 
And  trembling  to  the  Zephyr's  sighs; 
But  as  he  stooped  to  gaze  upon 
The  living  gem,  with  raptured  eyes, 
It  chanced  a  Bee  was  busy  there, 
Searching  for  its  fragrant  fare; 
And  Cupid,  stooping,  too,  to  sip, 
The  angry  insect  stung  his  lip — 
And  gushing  from  the  ambrosial  cell, 
One  bright  drop  on  my  bosom  fell. 

Weeping,  to  his  Mother  he 
Told  the  tale  of  treachery; 
And  she,  her  vengeful  Boy  to  please, 
Strung  his  bow  with  captive  Bees; 
But  placed  upon  my  slender  stem 
The  poisoned  stings  she  plucked  from  them; 
And  none  since  that  eventful  morn, 
Have  found  the  flower  without  a  Thorn. 

The  origin  of  the  red  and  white  Rose  becoming  the 
badges  of  the  two  houses  of  York  and  Lancaster,  is  beauti- 
fully presented  to  us  by  Shakspeare,  in  his  "  Henry  the  Sixth." 
The  white,  being  selected  by  the  York  faction,  the  red,  by 
that  of  Lancaster. 

Plantagenet.  Since  you  are  tongue-ty'd,  and  so  loath 

to  speak, 

In  dumb  significants  proclaim  your  thoughts: 
Let  him,  that  is  a  true-born  gentleman, 
And  stands  upon  the  honour  of  his  birth, 
If  he  supposes  that  I  have  pleaded  truth, 
From  off  this  briar  pluck  a  white  rose  with  me. 

Somerset.  Let  him  that  is  no  coward,  nor  no  flatterer, 
But  dare  maintain  the  party  of  the  truth, 
Pluck  a  red  rose  from  this  thorn  with  me. 

The  subsequent  blending  of  their  interests,  and  union  of 
the  two  houses,  is  prettily  typified  in  the  colouring  of  the  York 
and  Lancaster  Rose.  Whilst  its  specific  appellation  will 
always  bring  to  recollection  the  wars  which  their  contentions 
gave  rise  to. 

We  find  in  ancient  lore,  the  Rose  was  made  the  symbol 
of  silence,  and  consecrated  by  Cupid  to  Harpocrates,  the 
God  of  silence. 

The  proverbial  expression  "  under  the  Rose,"  arose  no 
doubt  from  the  two  badges  of  the  houses  of  York  and  Lan- 
caster. These  factions  were  continually  plotting  and  coun- 
terplotting against  each  other.  And  when  a  matter  of  vital 
interest  to  either  party  was  communicated  to  his  friend  in  the 
same  quarrel,  it  was  natural  for  him  to  add,  that  he  said  it 


under  the  rose;  meaning  that,  as  it  concerned  the  faction,  it 
was  religiously  to  be  kept  secret. 

Sub  rosa  (under  the  rose)  has,  by  some,  been  traced  to 
the  ancient  custom  in  Symposiac*  meetings,  of  the  attendants 
wearing  chaplets  of  roses  about  their  heads. 

The  Rose  is  too  well  known  to  require  a  botanical  de- 
scription, which  could  only  apply  to  the  single  rose;  only  re- 
marking that  it  has  but  five  petals;  with  an  urceolate,  or 
pitcher-shaped  calyx. 

The  Bridal  Rose,  Rubus  Rossefolius,  or  Rose-leaved 
Bramble,  is  of  the  genus  Rubus,  which  includes  all  the 
Bramble  family.  It  has  beautiful,  double,  white  flowers, 
rather  smaller  than  those  of  the  Cinnamon  Rose;  slender 
round  stems:  prickles  somewhat  hooked,  small.  Leaflets 
usually  seven,  ovate-lanceolate,  doubly  serrated.  It  agrees 
altogether  in  the  class  and  order,  as  designated  for  the  Rose 
in  the  Glossary.  It  is  a  rose  usually  cultivated  in  green- 
houses— first  patronised  in  England  by  Sir  Joseph  Banks.  Its 
native  country  not  known. 

ROSE  CAMPION. 
Jlgrostemma. 

Jlgrostemma,  L.  from  the  Greek  »yeou  si^x,  the  gar- 
land of  the  field.  A  genus  scarcely  distinct  from  the  Lych- 
nis. 

There  are  four  species  designated;  one  is  the  Corn-Cam- 
pion, or  Cockle,  Ji.  Githago,  which  is  hirsute  or  hairy,  with 
a  calyx  longer  than  the  corolla,  petals  entire,  or  slightly 
emarginate,  and  naked. 

Ji.  Coronaria,  or  Rose  Campion,  is  a  biennial  plant, 
with  rose,  or  flesh-coloured,  or  white  flowers,  sometimes  dou- 
bled, tomentose,  with  leaves  ovate-lanceolate.  The  petals 
of  the  corolla  slightly  emarginate,  crowned,  and  serrate. 
This  species  is  usually  cultivated  in  gardens. 

ROSEMARY. 

Rosmarinus. 

Rosmarinus,  from  ros,  dew,  and  marinus,  alluding  to 
its  situation  on  the  sea  shore.  Those  who  have  observed  it 
mantling  the  rocks  of  the  Mediterranean,  with  its  grey  flow- 
ers glittering  with  dew  in  Winter,  cannot  but  be  struck  with 
the  elegant  propriety  of  the  name. 

Rosmarinus,  sea-rose. —  Webster. 

The  flowers  of  the  garden  Rosemary,  R.  officinalis,  are 
of  a  bright  blue  colour,  variegated  with  purple  and  white, 
having,  like  the  leaves,  a  strong  aromatic  fragrance. 

It  is  an  erect  evergreen  shrub,  about  four  feet  high, 
much  branched,  downy,  leafy  on  all  sides.  Leaves  opposite, 
spreading  in  a  recurved  manner,  linear-oblong,  obtuse,  revo- 
lute,  entire;  smooth,  dark  green,  and  shining  above,  downy 
and  veined  beneath.  Flowers  axillary,  terminal,  on  very 
short  stalks,  erect. 

*  Symposiac,  from  the  Greek  Eu^onz,  a  drinking  together; 
<ruv  together,  and  aiva  to  drink. 

Symposiac,  a  conference  or  conversation  of  philosophers  at  a 
banquet. — Plutarch  has  nine  books,  -which  he  calls  Symposiacs;  or  sym- 
posiac  questions,  q.  d.  disputations  at  table.  Webster  and  Rees. 


From  an  old  opinion  of  Rosemary-juice  having  the  pro- 
perty of  strengthening  the  memory,  this  plant  has  been  poeti- 
cally made  the  emblem  of  Remembrance,  or  Fidelity;  and 
this  was  probably  the  origin  of  its  being  worn  or  used  at  fune- 
rals, and  weddings. 

There's  rosemary,  that's  for  remembrance; 
Pray  you,  love,  remember;  and  there  is  pansies, 
That's  for  thoughts.  Shaks. 

And  the  humble  rosemary, 

Whose  sweets  so  thanklessly  are  shed 

To  scent  the  desert,  and  the  dead. 

Lalla  Rookh. 

Reverend  Sirs, 

For  you  there's  rosemary  and  rue :  these  keep 
Seeming,  and  savour,  all  the  winter  long: 
Grace,  and  remembrance,  be  to  you  both.  Shaks. 

RUE. 
Ruta 

Rttta,  an  ancient  Latin  name  derived  from  the  Greek 
eu*,  to  flow,  in  allusion  to  some  reputed  expelling  qualities 
of  the  plant. 

Rue,  E.  a  contracted  word,  and  so  named  from  its  bitter 
taste.  Sax.  reowian,  hreowian;  Welsh  rhuaw,  Dutch 
rouwen;  Ger.  reun,  to  repent.  Greek  ^rr,,  from  eu»>. 

Johnson  tells  us,  it  was  called  Herb  of  Grace,  because 
holy  water  was  sprinkled  with  it.  Jeremy  Taylor  says  of  it, 
"  They  (the  Romish  exorcists)  are  to  try  the  Devil  by  holy 
water,  incense,  sulphur,  rue,  and  from  thence,  as  is  supposed, 
it  received  the  appellation  of  Herb  of  Grace." 

What  savory  is  belter 
For  places  infected,  than  wormwood  and  rue. 

Tusser. 

The  Weasel,  to  encounter  the  serpent,  arms  herself  with 
eating  rue.  [See  Johnson. 

There's  fennel  for  you,  and  columbines: 
There's  rue  for  you:  and  here's  some  for  me: — 
We  may  call  it  herb  of  grace,  o'  Sundays:  you 
May  wear  your  rue  with  a  difference.     There's  a 
Daisy: — I  would  give  you  some  violets,  but  they 
Wither'd  all,  when  my  father  died.  Shaks. 


Here  did  she  drop  a  tear;  here  in  this  place 
I'll  set  a  bank  of  rue,  sour  herb  of  grace. 


Same. 


Common  Rue,  Ruta  graveolens,  is  a  hardy  shrub,  culti- 
vated, time  out  of  mind,  in  every  garden.  The  whole  herb 
has  a  peculiarly  acrid,  pungent  smell,  supposed,  powerfully, 
to  prevent  contagion.  The  bruised  leaves  excoriate  the  lips 
if  incautiously  applied  to  them.  The  stem  is  bushy,  smooth. 
Leaves  alternate,  twice  or  thrice  compounded,  smooth,  of  a 
deep  bluish  glaucous  hue;  their  leaflets  oblong,  entire,  tapering 
at  the  base.  Flowers  of  rather  a  dull  yellow;  copious,  inter- 
ininal,  corymbose  panicles. 


SAGE. 

Salvia. 

Salvia,  an  ancient  Latin  name,  supposed  to  allude  to  the 
salubrious  qualities  of  the  plant — perhaps  from  the  L.  verb 
salve,  God  save  you,  or  the  adv.  salve,  well  in  health. 

Sage  was  supposed  by  the  ancients  to  possess  the  virtue 
of  prolonging  human  life;  hence  the  following  line: 

"Cur  moriatur  homo,  cui  salvia  crescit  in  horto?" 
"  How  can  a  man  die,  in  whose  garden  there  grows  sage  ?" 

The  common  garden  Sage,  salvia  officinalis,  is  a  plant 
as  well  known  to  the  simple,  as  the  wise.  Its  agreeable  aro- 
matic bitter,  forms  a  component  part  in  almost  all  culinary 
preparations:  and  for  its  medicinal  virtues,  it  has  been  ever 
held  in  great  esteem  by  all  domestic  practitioners.  An  infu- 
sion of  the  leaves,  in  the  form  of  tea,  is  considered  particu- 
larly serviceable  to  persons  of  cold  phlegmatic  habits,  labour- 
ing under  nervous  debility.  And  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  sugar,  is  a  grateful  drink  in  febrile  disorders. 

"Marbled  with  sage  the  hard'ning  cheese  she  press'd." 

Gay. 

Locke  tells  us  that  "by  the  colour,  figure,  taste,  and 
smell,  we  have  as  clear  ideas  of  sage,  and  hemlock,  as  we 
have  of  a  circle." 

Its  flowers  are  bluish,  an  inch  long,  with  a  brown  viscid 
calyx  of  one  leaf,  somewhat  bell-shaped,  two-lipped.  Co- 
rolla ringent. 

SCABIOUS. 
Scabiosa. 

Scabiosa,  derived  from  scaber,  rough,  because  of  the 
roughness  usual  in  these  herbs,  and  especially  of  the  scaly 
harshness  of  their  heads  of  flowers. 

One  of  the  species,  S.  atro-purpurea,  sweet,  or  musky, 
scabious,  has  been  long  cultivated  in  gardens.  Its  native 
country  unknown.  Its  flowers  are  very  sweet,  and  there  is 
a  great  variety  in  their  colour,  some  being  of  a  purple,  ap- 
proaching to  black,  others  of  a  pale  purple,  red,  variegated, 
etc.  It  also  varies  in  the  leaves,  some  being  finer  cut  than 
others. 

The  dark  purple  has  been  popularly  called  "  the  mourn- 
ing bride." 

SCARLET  LYCHNIS. 

Ijychnis  chalcedonica. 

Lychnis,  L.  from  the  Gr.  xu%vi?,  derived  from  xu%vo«,  a 
lamp.  Some  have  supposed  that  the  appellation  arose  from 
the  down  of  the  plant  having  been  used  to  make  wicks  of 
lamps. 

The  most  probable  and  apparent  explanation  of  the  name, 
is,  from  the  resemblance  of  the  calyx  of  some  of  the  species 
to  a  lanthorn,  its  sides  being  semi-transparent  between  the 
ribs  or  veins,  or  the  whole,  in  some  instances,  quite  membra- 
nous, round,  and  inflated,  like  the  horn  lanthorns  still  used 
by  the  Chinese.  The  appearance  of  the  stigmas,  stamens,  or 
crown  of  the  corolla,  in  several  species,  would  favour  the  idea 
of  a  lamp  with  a  flame,. 


The  addition  of  Chalcedonica  may  possibly  be  derived 
from  Chalcedon,  a  city  of  Bithynia,  on  the  Asiatic  coast  of 
the  Black  Sea,  over  against  Constantinople. 

Gerard  tells  us  the  flower  in  question  was  called  "  Flow- 
er of  Constantinople,  and  Campion  of  Constantinople."  He 
also  calls  it  Lychnis  Chalcedonica. 

Lychnis  was  formerly  used  by  botanists  for  all  the  Cam- 
pion tribe,  though  now  restricted  by  Linnaeus  and  his  follow- 
ers to  one  particular  genus  of  that  family. 

The  L.  Chalcedonica,  is  said  to  grow  wild  in  all  parts  of 
Russia  and  Siberia.  It  is  one  of  the  chief  ornaments  of  mo- 
dern flower  gardens.  A  hardy  perennial,  very  showy,  and 
remarkable  for  the  rich  vivid  scarlet  of  its  blossoms,  especial- 
ly when  double.  These  appear  about  June,  forming  a  large, 
dense,  convex,  terminal  tuft,  two  or  three  inches  wide,  with 
flowers  of  five  petals,  border  flat,  wedge-shaped,  often  divi- 
ded. Calyx  perianth  inferior,  of  one  leaf,  oblong,  tubular, 
membranous,  five  toothed,  permanent.  Seeds  somewhat  kid- 
ney-shaped, roughish.  The  stem  is  several  feet  high,  round, 
hairy,  leafy,  but  little  branched.  Leaves  ovate,  rough,  some- 
what undulated. 

SNAP  DRAGON. 
Antirrhinum. 

Antirrhinum,  from  the  Greek  «VTI  (L.  tequalis,)  equal, 
and  $>v  (L.  nasus,)  a  nose.  JEqualis  defined  by  Ains worth, 
(2)  "  of  the  same  shape,  or  stature,  as  another." 

On  pressing  the  sides  of  this  flower,  it  opens  like  a  gaping 
mouth,  the  stigma  appearing  to  represent  the  tongue;  on  re- 
moving the  pressure,  the  lips  of  the  corolla  snap  together, 
and  hence  its  name.  Some  have  traced  a  resemblance  to  a 
calfs  snout  in  the  form  of  its  seed  vessel,  or  fruit. 

The  monopetalous  corolla  forms  a  mask,  which  resem- 
bles the  face  of  an  animal. 

There  are  many  American  species,  of  various  colours. 
The  Calyx  is  a  five-leafed  perianth,  permanent.  Corolla 
nectariferous,  ringent.  Nectary  at  the  base  of  the  corolla, 
produced  downwards,  prominent. 

SNOW  BALL. 

Viburnum. 
(See  Laurustinus.) 

Viburnum  Opulus,  Common  Guelder-rose,  Water  El- 
der, or  Snow  Ball,  is  an  European  shrub,  or  small  tree,  smooth 
in  all  its  parts,  only  the  backs  of  the  leaves  being  occasion- 
ally downy.  Their  three  lobes  are  unequally  toothed  or  ser- 
rated. Their  foot-stalks  bear  towards  the  top,  several  cup- 
like  glands,  and  towards  the  base,  a  pair  or  two  of  linear  sti- 
pules. Cymes  large,  smooth,  stalked,  of  numerous  white 
flowers.  Berries  scarlet.  A  variety  with  globose  cymes, 
composed  entirely  of  radiant  powers,  is  commonly  cultivated 
in  gardens. 


The  balls  that  hang  like  drifted  snow, 
Upon  the  guelder-rose. 


London. 


Here  the  Guelder-rose  shall  fling 
Silver  treasures  to  the  spring. 

Her  silver  globes,  light  as  the  foamy  surf, 
That  the  wind  severs  from  the  broken  wave. 


L.E.L. 


Cowper. 


SNOW  DROP. 

Galanthus. 

Galanthus,  L.  from  the  Greek  y«x.«,  milk,  and  »i/So;,  a 
flower;  alluding  to  its  milky  whiteness. 

The  G.  nivalis,  or  common  Snow  Drop,  is  the  only  spe- 
cies noticed  in  this  genus.  It  has  two  varieties,  the  semi- 
double  and  double  flowered.  An  European  plant.  It  is  the 
first  flower  that  appears  after  the  winter  solstice. 

Warm  with  sweet  blushes,  bright  Galantha  glows, 
And  prints,  with  frolic  step,  the  melting  snows. 

*  *  #  * 

Chides  with  her  dulcet  voice  the  tardy  spring, 
Bids  slumbering  Zephyr  stretch  his  folded  wing. 

Darwin. 

Fair  handed  spring  unbosoms  every  grace, 
Throws  out  the  Snow-drop  and  the  crocus  first. 

Thomson. 

As  Flora's  breath,  by  some  transforming  power, 
Had  changed  an  icicle  into  a  flower, 
Its  name,  and  hue,  the  scentless  plant  retains, 
And  winter  lingers  in  its  icy  veins.          Mrs.  Barbauld, 

Calyx,  a  spatha,  opening  at  the  flat  side,  permanent. 
Corolla  of  six  petals,  the  three  innermost  shortest,  emargi- 
nate.  Bulbous  rooted. 

SORREL. 
Oxalis. 

Oxalis,  L.  from  the  Gr.  o|«;,  sour;  a  name  adopted  from 
the  Greeks;  whose  oxalis,  however,  is  probably  the  ucctosa 
of  the  Latins,  and  belongs  to  the  genus  rumex. 

Skinner  derives  the  name  sorrel  from  the  word  sour. 
And  both  the  oxalis  and  rumex  have  species  noted  for  the 
peculiar  and  grateful  acid  of  their  leaves;  the  plants  are  de- 
signated as  the  wild  sorrel,  (oxalis,)  and  garden  sorrel,  (ru- 
mex,) the  latter  much  used  in  French  cookery,  the  former 
admired  for  the  delicate  beauty  of  its  flowers. 

Thirteen  species  of  the  curious  and  pretty  genus  Oxalis, 
are  natives  of  America;  many  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope; 
only  two  of  Great  Britain. 

The  Calyx  is  a  perianth  of  five  leaves.  Corolla  of 
five  petals  connected  by  their  claws,  obvate,  obtuse,  emargi- 
nate,  spreading.  Seeds  with  an  elastic  tunic  of  two  valves. 
Leaves  generally  ternate,  or  three-leafed.  Some  varieties 
have  twin  leaves,  others  simple  leaves. 

The  species  most  abundant  in  Virginia  have  pink  or  lilac 
flowers  variously  shaded — sometimes  a  bright  yellow :  farther 
north  it  is  found  of  a  pale  yellow,  delicately  pencilled  with 
crimson,  or  a  pure  white,  pencilled  with  pink  or  purple. 

See  trim  oxalis  with  her  pencilled  flower.  Evans. 

In  woodland  bowers, 
There  spring  the  sorrePs  veined  leaves. 

Charlotte  Smith. 


SPEEDWELL. 

Veronica. 

(For  Veronica,  see  Belvidere.) 

Many  of  the  species  are  peculiarly  beautiful.  Flowers, 
generally  blue,  some  a  pale  pink. 

The  V.  Virginica,  Virginian  Speedwell,  has  clusters  ob- 
scurely whorled,  with  nearly  sessile  flowers.  Tube  of  the 
monopetalous  five  cleft  corolla,  twice  as  long  as  the  five  cleft 
calyx.  Leaves,  four  or  five  in  a  whorl,  elliptic-lanceolate, 
stalked;  perennial.  Spikes  long,  white  or  blush-coloured. 

There  is  a  purple  flowered  variety,  extremely  beautiful, 
to  be  found  on  the  mountains  of  Virginia. 

SPIDER  WORT. 
Tradescanti.     Virginica. 
(See  American  Star  Wort.) 

Called  Tradescanti,  after  the  two  Tradescants,  father 
and  son. 

The  Spider  Wort,  T.  Virginica,  the  original  species 
of  this  genus,  was  carried  from  Virginia  to  Europe  by  the 
younger  Tradescant,  before  the  year  1629,  as  appears  by 
Parkinson's  Paradisus.  It  is  common  from  Pennsylvania  to 
Carolina,  in  shady  woods.  It  has  long  fibrous  roots.  Stems 
about  eighteen  inches  high,  round,  leafy,  scarcely  branched. 
Leaves  lanceolate,  smooth,  sheathing,  concave,  tapering- 
pointed,  of  a  dark  shining  green.  Flowers  large,  of  a  rich 
violet  blue,  each  lasting  but  a  day,  or  rather  a  few  hours  in 
the  early  part  of  the  day,  after  which  they  roll  up  into  a  li- 
quifying pulpy  mass;  but  there  being  a  great  number  in  each 
umbel,  or  tuft,  there  is  a  long  succession. 

The  Flower  has  a  calyx  of  three  leaves,  permanent  and 
spreading.  Corolla  of  three  petals,  ovate,  flat,  widely  spread- 
ing, their  claws  sometimes  combined.  The  six  golden  an- 
thers are  brilliantly  contrasted  with  the  dark  purple  shaggy 
filaments.  It  is  a  perennial  plant,  blooming  throughout  the 


STAR  OF  BETHLEHEM. 
Ornithogalum. 

Ornithogalum,  L.  from  the  Gr.  o^ nt>  ojviSo;,  a  bird,  and 
y**.»,  milk.  But  the  application  has  proved  a  stumbling- 
block  to  most  etymologists. 

The  Flora  Historica,  tells  us,  that  this  bulbous-rooted 
flower  received  the  reverential  title  of  Star  of  Bethlehem, 
from  the  formation  of  its  corolla. 

It  is  an  extensive  genus,  the  essential  character  of  which 
is  a  corolla  of  six  petals,  erect,  permanent,  their  upper  part 
spreading.  No  calyx. 

ST.  JOHN'S  WORT. 
Hypericum. 

Hypericum.  Linnaeus  deduces  the  name  from  the  Greek 
IVe^,  above,  and  EIXOV,  a  figure  or  image.  Boerhave  says, 
"iTref-sixci/  (Gr.)  quasi  herba,  cujus  imago  eminet." 

Native  of  America — Europe — China,  etc.  a  copious  and 
handsome  genus.  The  stems  either  shrubby  or  herbaceous, 
usually  angular.  Roots  perennial.  Leaves  simple,  oppo- 
site, sessile,  entire.  Herbage  generally  smooth,  with  glandu- 
lar pellucid  dots,  and  an  aromatic  scent.  Flowers  terminal, 


cymose,  yellow  and  brilliant.     Calyx  often  fringed.     Gene- 
rally five  petals,  oblong-ovate,  obtuse,  spreading. 

STRAWBERRY  TREE. 

•Arbutus. 

•Arbutus,  a  Latin  name  given  to  a  kind  of  wild  Straw- 
berry or  Cherry  tree,  bearing  fruit  so  sour,  that  Pliny  calls 
them  unedones,  because  one  of  them  is  enough  at  a  time. 

[See  •Ainsworth. 

Strawberry,  E.  from  straw  and  berry; — perhaps  from 
the  practice  of  placing  straw  under  the  berries,  or  fruit,  whilst 
ripening,  to  keep  them  clear  of  the  soil. 

Home  Took  considers  strawberry,  as  straw'd-berry, 
from  straw,  or  strew,  from  the  manner  in  which  the  plants  are 
set  in  beds,  not  cast  in  heaps,  but,  as  it  were,  strewed  here 
and  there,  at  manifest  distances. 

Several  species  of  the  Arbutus  are  natives  of  America, 
abundant  in  our  swamps. 

The  berries  of  the  A.  Thymifolia,  or  Thyme-leafed 
Arbutus,  are  brought  to  the  Philadelphia  market  late  in  Au- 
tumn, and  used  for  tarts.  Considerable  quantities  of  them  are 
exported  to  Europe  and  the  West  Indies — they  are  much  used 
in  London,  though  thought  to  be  inferior  to  the  cranberry  of 
British  growth. 

The  Ess.  Char,  a  Calyx  five-parted.  Corolla,  ovate,  di- 
aphanous at  the  base. 

SUMACH. 
Rhus. 

RJms — of  doubtful  origin.  De  Theis  deduces  it  from 
the  Celtic  rhudd  or  rub,  red.  The  fruit  of  some  of  the  spe- 
cies justifies  this  derivation,  those  particularly  most  common 
in  the  United  States,  as  the  Rhus  glabrum,  smooth  Sumach. 
Neglected  corn-fields  are  soon  overrun  with  this  tree,  whose 
roots  subsequently  render  ploughing  very  difficult.  Its  leaves 
consist  of  from  eight  to  twelve  pair  of  longish  taper-pointed 
leaflets,  smooth  and  naked  on  both  sides.  Fruit,  a  globular 
crimson,  berry,  slightly  hisped,  the  size  of  an  Elder  berry. 
And  the  Rhus  viridiflorum,  green-flowered  Sumach,  growing 
on  the  edges  of  woods,  in  dry  sunny  situations  in  Pennsylva- 
nia and  Virginia.  The  Jlowers  are  of  a  yellowish-green. 
Leaves  numerously  pinnate,  ovate-lanceolate,  serrated,  glau- 
cous, and  somewhat  downy  beneath,  though  not  always  so. 

According  to  Medical  books,  the  Rhus  copallinum,  Len- 
tiscus-leafed  Sumach,  (called  by  Dr.  Ewell  common  sti- 
mach,)  berries  red,  and  very  acid,  is  a  valuable  plant.  An 
infusion  of  the  berries,  sweetened  with  honey,  forms  an  excel- 
lent gargle  for  sore  throats,  or  to  cleanse  the  mouth  in  putrid 
fevers.  The  bark  of  the  root  is  considered  one  of  the  best 
antiseptics  produced  by  vegetation,  and  forms  an  impor- 
tant ingredient  in  decoctions  for  hectic,  and  scrofulous  dis- 
eases. 

Some  of  the  species  of  this  genus  are  celebrated  for  pro- 
ducing valuable  resins  for  varnish,  as  the  R.  Vernix,  Var- 
nish Sumach,  found  in  low  copses,  from  Canada  to  Carolina; 
the  whole  tree  very  smooth.  Leaflets  about  six  pair  with 
one  odd  one;  elliptical,  entire,  somewhat  abrupt,  pointed. 
Flowers  diaecious.  Berries,  the  size  of  a  pea,  white  and  re- 
markably polished,  both  in  a  fresh  and  dry  state. 


Others,  from  their  caustic  nature,  have  acquired  the  name 
of  Poison  trees,  as  the  Dwarf  Carolina  Sumach,  Rhus  Pu- 
milum,  stem  not  above  a  foot  high.  Leaves  numerously 
pinnate,  oval,  scarcely  pointed,  deeply  toothed,  downy  be- 
neath. Branches,  and  foot-stalks  downy.  Fruit  clothed 
with  a  velvet  down. 

The  R.  Toxicodendron,  Trailing  Poison-Oak,  or  Su- 
mach, common  in  woods,  fields,  and  hedges,  from  Carolina  to 
Georgia,  is  a  very  pernicious  plant.  Stem  creeping,  never 
erect,  but  when  it  meets  with  support,  will  climb  like  ivy  to 
the  tops  of  the  highest  trees.  Leaves  ternate,  the  leaflets 
are  of  a  broad,  ovate,  or  rhomboidal  form,  pointed,  always 
more  or  less  downy,  at  least  about  the  ribs;  crenate,  cut,  or 
lobod.  Flowers  in  compound  axillary  clusters,  greenish,  diae- 
cious.  Berries  white. 

The  Rhus  cotinus,  or  Venice  Sumach,  cultivated  in 
gardens,  is  much  admired  for  the  very  singular  and  ornamen- 
tal appearance  of  its  elongated  feathery  fruit-stalks.  The 
shrub  grows  to  about  the  height  of  a  man,  bushy.  Leaves 
smooth,  orbicular,  entire.  Flowers  greenish,  or  purplish, 
small,  in  terminal  compound  panicles.  Fruit  gibbous.  The 
leaves  and  stalks,  when  bruised,  have  an  aromatic  but  pun- 
gent and  acid  odour.  The  whole  plant  is  used  in  Italy  for 
tanning — as  are  the  different  species  of  this  genus  in  other 
countries. 

SUN  FLOWER. 
Helianthus. 

Helianthus,  L.  derived  from  the  Gr.  n\n>st  the  sun,  and 
»v$of,  a  flower.  The  name  applied,  no  doubt,  from  the  re- 
semblance which  its  broad  golden  disk  and  ray  bear  to  the 
Sun. 

The  power  ascribed  to  it  of  constantly  presenting  its 
flowers  to  that  luminary,  renders  it  quite  appropriate.  But 
there  are  many  other  plants  which  possess  this  power  in  a 
higher  degree.  This  property,  where  it  is  eminently  conspi- 
cuous, has  been  poetically  construed  into  a  sort  of  sympathy 
or  perception  in  the  plant,  like  that  of  the  ancient  Heliotrope. 
(See  Note  upon  that  Flower.) 

The  H.  indicus,  Dwarf  annual  Sun-flower,  is  a  diminu- 
tive species,  now  much  cultivated. 

The  H.  annuus,  or  annual  Sun  flower,  was  the  first 
discovered,  and  the  largest  species.  A  native  of  Mexico  and 
Peru.  On  account  of  its  resemblance  to  the  Sun,  it  was  used 
in  the  religious  ceremonies  of  the  ancient  Peruvians,  who 
worshipped  that  luminary.  The  virgins,  who  officiated  in 
the  Temple  of  the  Sun,  were  crowned  with  the  Helianthus 
made  of  pure  gold,  and  wearing  them,  also,  in  their  breast, 
and  carrying  others  in  their  hands,  which  reflecting  the  rays 
of  their  deity  by  the  brilliancy  of  the  metal,  formed  an  effect 
of  the  most  imposing  grandeur. 

In  its  native  country,  it  is  said  to  grow  to  the  height  of 
twenty  feet  or  more,  and  the  flowers  to  be  about  two  feet 
broad. 

Great  Helianthus 

Climbs  the  upland  lawn, 
And  bows,  in  homage,  to  the  rising  dawn; 


Imbibes,  with  eagle  eye,  the  golden  ray, 
And  watches,  as  it  moves,  the  orb  of  day. 


Darwin. 


Helianthus,  like  the  God  of  day, 

Binds  round  his  nodding  disk  the  golden  ray. 

Evans. 
Uplift,  proud  Sun-fiowerj  to  thy  favourite  orb, 

That  disk  whereon  his  brightness  seems  to  dwell, 
And  as  thou  seem'st  his  radiance  to  absorb, 
Proclaim  thyself  the  garden's  sentinel. 

B.  Barton. 

The  H.  Tuberosus,  tuberous-rooted  Helianthus,  or  Je-> 
rusalem  Artichoke,  is  a  native  of  Peru.  Now  much  culti- 
vated in  kitchen  gardens,  for  the  sake  of  its  roots,  which, 
when  boiled,  have  the  flavour  of  the  real  Artichoke. 

/There  are  many  species  of  the  Helianthus,  eleven  of 
which  belong  to  America.  Their  general  character  is  a  calyx 
imbricated,  somewhat  squarrose.  Receptacle  chaffy,  flat, 
seed-crown  of  two  leaves.  Corolla  compound,  radiated;  flo- 
rets of  the  disk,  very  numerous,  perfect,  cylindrical,  shorter 
than  the  common  calyx.  Most  of  them  are  perennial  herba- 
ceous, with  large,  alternate,  heart-shaped,  or  ovate  leaves. 
Stalks  roughish. 

SWEET  BRIAR. 

Rosa  Suaveolens. 
(For  Rosa,  see  Rose.) 
Suaveolens,  Lat.  sweet-smelling. 
Rosa  Suaveolens,  is  the  American  Sweet  Briar.    Flow- 
ers pale  pink,  small,  often,  but  not  always  solitary.     Foliage 
delightfully  fragrant. 


The  wild-briar  rose,  a  fragrant  cup, 
To  hold  the  morning's  tear. 


London. 


Yet,  lovely  flower,  I  find  in  thee 

Wild  sweetness  which  no  words  express, 

And  charms  in  thy  simplicity, 

That  dwell  not  in  the  pride  of  dress. 

John  Langhorn.    Fables  of  Flora. 

SWEET  WILLIAM. 

Dianthus  Barbatus. 
(For  Dianthus,  see  Carnation  or  Pink.) 
The  Sweet  William,  D.  barbatus,  is  a  species  of  Pink, 
indigenous  to  Germany.    The  Dutch  formerly  gave   it  the 
name  of  Keykens,  which  is  their  familiar  name  for  a  nosegay 
or  a  large  bunch  of  flowers. — One  stem  supporting  a  large 
and  brilliant  bunch  of  blossoms. 

This  species  of  Dianthus  has  been  named  Barbatus, 
from  the  hairy  or  pointed  scales  of  the  calyx,  which  is  ovate 
awl-shaped,  of  one  leaf.  Flowers  aggregate,  in  separate 
bundles.  Leaves  lanceolate.  A  hardy  perennial  plant, 
thriving  best,  in  a  dry  calcareous  soil. 

Sweet  William  has  a  form  and  aspect  bright, 

Like  that  sweet  flower  that  yields  great  Jove  delight; 


Had  he  majestic  bulk,  he'd  now  be  styled 

Jove's  flower;  and  if  my  skill  is  not  beguiled, 

He  was  Jove'a  flower  when  Jove  was  but  a  child. 

Take  him  with  many  flowers,  in  one,  conferr'd, 

He's  worthy  Jove,  e'en  now  he  has  a  beard. 

Cowley. 
SYRINGA  CAROLINA. 

Philadelphia  inodorus. 
(For  Philadelphia,  see  Mock-Orange.) 

The  name  Syringa,  which  Tournefort  retained  for  this 
shrub,  originated  in  a  confusion  of  ideas.  It  equally  belongs 
to  the  Lilac;  is  of  Moorish  origin,  and  supposed  to  be  de- 
rived from  the  Greek  <rv%iyi}  ru^yo;,  a  pipe;  because  the 
young  branches  of  Lilac  are  used  in  Africa  and  the  Levant 
for  tobacco  pipes. — See  Lilac. 

Those  of  Philadelphus  are,  also,  reported  to  serve  the 
same  purpose. 

The  P.  Inodorus,  Carolina,  scentless  Mock-Orange, 
rises  with  a  shrubby  stalk,  sometimes  to  the  height  of  sixteen 
feet.  Leaves  shaped  like  those  of  a  pear  tree,  entire,  oppo- 
site, on  pretty  long  foot-stalks.  The  Flowers  are  produced 
at  the  ends  of  the  branches,  large,  inodorus,  with  four  white 
oval  petals,  spreading  open.  Calyx  large,  composed  of  four 
acute-pointed  leaflets. 

The  sweet  Syringa  yields  but  in  scent 

To  the  rich  orange.  Mason. 

THISTLE. 

Carduus. 

Carduus,  said  to  be  derived  from  euro,  a  technical  verb 
denoting  the  operation  of  cleaning  wool  from  its  impurities. 

Ainsworth  defines  caro,  to  card,  to  tease  or  card  wool. 

Carduus,  is  a  name  given  by  the  ancients  to  several  kinds 
of  prickly  plants,  particularly  to  the  Teasel,  Dipsacus  fullo- 
num,  also  called  Carduus  fullonum,  or  Fuller's  Thistle, 
formerly  used  in  carding  wool,  as  it  is  still  in  dressing 
cloths. 

Thistle,  English — Diestel,  Dutch — a  prickly  weed  grow- 
ing in  fields.  [See  Johnson.] 

Tough  Thistle  chock'd  the  fields,  and  kill'd  the  corn, 
And  an  unthrifty  crop  of  weeds  was  born.          Dryden. 

The  roots  of  Thistle  have  my  hunger  fed, 

Two  roods  of  cultur'd  barley  give  me  bread, 

A  rock  my  pillow,  and  green  moss  my  bed.  Harte. 

Wide  o'er  the  Thistle  lawn,  as  swells  the  breeze, 

A  whitening  shower  of  vegetable  down 

Amusive  floats.  Thomson. 

In  Scotland,  the  order  of  St.  Andrew,  or  the  Thistle, 
was  instituted  by  Achaius,  one  of  their  kings,  to  preserve 
the  memory  of  the  famous  league,  offensive,  and  defensive, 
entered  into  between  himself  and  Charlemagne,  king  of 
France.  The  tressure*  of  Flew  de  lys  was  added  to  the 

*  Treasure,  in  heraldry,  is  a  kind  of  border. 
The  arms  are  a  lion,  with  a  border,  or  tressure,  adorned  with 
flower-de-luces. 


Lion,  the  then  royal  arms  of  Scotland,  and  their  king  took 
for  his  device  the  Thistle  and  Rue,  which  he  composed  into 
a  collar  of  his  order:  his  motto  "  Pour  ma  Defence."  To 
this  collar  was  hung  a  jewel,  the  figure  of  St.  Andrew  bear- 
ing his  cross. 

Triumphant  be  the  Thistle  still  unfurl'd, 
Dear  symbol  wild!  on  freedom's  hills  it  grows, 

Where  Fingal  stemmed  the  tyrants  of  the  world, 
And  Roman  eagles  found  unconquered  foes. 

Campbell. 

THORN  APPLE. 
Datura. 

Datura,  from  do  dare,  daturus,  Latin  for  to  give,  to 
bestow,  which  will  give,  etc.,  because  it  is  given  as  a  stimu- 
lant. This  is  the  only  explanation  of  the  name,  that  the 
etymologists  give  of  it,  at  least  such  is  given  in  the  Ency- 
clopedia. 

The  Flora  Historica  tells  us,  that  the  generic  name  of 
Datura  is  the  original  name  by  which  it  was  received  from 
the  Turks;  and  that  it  is  called  Thorn  Apple,  from  the  nature 
of  its  fruit,  which  is  prickly. 

De  Theis  derives  Datura  from  Datorah,  or  Tatorah, 
the  Arabic  name  of  the  plant. 

It  appears  to  have  been  carried  from  Peru  through  the 
East  Indies  and  Persia  to  Europe.  The  seed  was  brought 
from  Constantinople  by  Lord  Edward  Zouch,  who  gave  it 
to  Gerard,  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  was  much 
used  in  medicine.  It  is  a  powerful  narcotic. 

Their  powers  mysterious  let  thy  knowledge  shift, 
Their  useful  poisons,  and  their  healing  gift.       De  Lille. 

Skinner  suggests  that  the  word  thorn  probably  comes 
from  the  Saxon  verb  tseran,  to  tear. 

The  D.  Stramonium,  Thorn  Apple,  or  James-Town 
Weed,  is  a  dangerous  plant  to  be  allowed  to  grow  where 
there  are  children,  as  the  beauty  of  its  flowers  and  fruit 
tempts  them  to  their  destruction.  There  are  several  beauti- 
ful varieties  of  this  genus.  The  D.  arborea  of  Peru  is  the 
most  splendid  of  all — each  flower  being  often  two  feet  in 
length,  and  sometimes  150  open  at  the  same  time  on  the  tree. 

The  Datura  Stramonium  is  said  to  have  received  the 
name  of  James-Town  Weed  from  the  circumstance  of  a 
number  of  Sailors  having  been  made  violently  ill  from  eat- 
ing the  boiled  plant  at  James-Town,  in  the  first  settlement 
of  Virginia. 

The  flowers  of  Datura  have  a  calyx  of  one  leaf,  infe- 
rior, tubular,  five-angled,  five-toothed,  partly  deciduous.  Co- 
rolla monopetalous,  funnel-shaped,  plaited.  There  is  a  sin- 
gular provision  of  nature  observed  in  these  flowers,  to  pro- 
tect them  from  the  humidity  of  the  night  air,  the  leaves  near- 
est the  flowers  rise  up  so  as  to  enclose  them  and  form  a  com- 
plete shelter. 

THYME. 
Thymus. 
Thymus,  from  the  Greek  £u»,  which  Schrevelius  trans- 


lates  by  the  Latin  verb  suffio,  and  this  latter  verb  Ainsworth 
explains  by  the  verb  to  perfume.  Ainsworth  gives  the  same 
etymology  of  the  word  thymum  or  thymus,  Thyme. 

To  enter  into  a  minute  description  of  this  plant,  would 
be  certainly  time  thrown  away,  both  in  the  writer  and  the 
reader. 

T.  vulgaris,  or  garden  Thyme,  has  been  known  in  all 
time  and  to  all  persons.  There  are  many  varieties  of  the 
genus,  too  tedious  to  enumerate.  The  wild  thyme  has  often 
been  noticed  by  the  Poets: — 

No  more,  my  goats,  shall  I  behold  you  climb 
The  steepy  cliffs,  or  crop  the  flow'ry  thyme. 

Dryderfs  Virgil. 
Guide  my  way 

Through  fair  Lyceum's  walk,  the  green  retreats 
Of  Academus,  and  the  thymy  vale.  Akenside. 

TUBEROSE. 

Polyanthes  tuberosa. 

Polyanthes,  a  name  given  by  Linnaeus,  and  we  must 
therefore  accept  his  own  explanation  of  it,  which  is — 

From  two  Greek  words  HOM,-,  a  town,  and  Ai/3-o$,  ajlow- 
er,  because  this  plant  is  generally  cultivated,  and  sold  in 
towns,  for  the  sake  of  its  elegance  and  fragrance. 

The  French  know  it  by  the  name  of  Tubereuse — the 
English  call  it  Tuberose — both  words  taken  from  the  La- 
tin appellation  which  it  first  obtained  of  Hyacinthus  tubero- 
sus. 

Some  write  it  Polyanthes,  as  Linnsus  originally  printed 
the  generic  name;  and  suppose  the  etymology  to  be  from  a 
Greek  word  jroxug,  many. 

Tuberose,  originated  in  the  old  appellation  of  Tuberous 
Hyacinth,  Hyacinthus  tuberosus,  alluding  to  the  tuberous 
root,  and  the  resemblance  of  the  flower  to  a  Hyacinth. 

It  is  usually  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  the  East  Indies. 
More  recently,  it  has  been  believed  to  have  come  from  South 
America. 

The  colour  of  the  Jlower  is  white,  sometimes  tinged 
with  a  blush  of  pink:  its  odour  rich  and  delicious,  most 
powerful  at  night,  resembling  the  flavour  of  ginger,  with  great 
sweetness,  several  in  a  terminal,  oblong,  bracteated  spike. 
No  Calyx.  Corolla  monopetalous,  funnel-shaped,  incurved; 
its  limb  in  six  equal  segments.  Leaves  scattered,  linear- 
lanceolate,  taper-pointed,  sheathing,  smooth,  pale,  and  rather 
glaucous.  Stem  simple,  erect,  round,  leafy,  sometimes  a 
yard  or  more  in  height.  Root  perennial,  tuberous,  somewhat 
creeping. 

Eternal  spring,  with  smiling  verdure  here, 
Warms  the  mild  air,  and  crowns  the  youthful  year; 
The  tuberose  ever  breathes,  and  violets  blow.       Garth. 

The  tube-rose,  with  her  silvery  light, 

That  in  the  gardens  of  Malay 
Is  call'd  the  mistress  of  the  night, 
So  like  a  bride,  scented  and  bright, 

She  comes  out  when  the  sun's  away. 

Lalla  Rookh. 


TULIP. 

Tulipa. 

Tulipa,  an  acknowledged  barbarous  name,  said  to  be  of 
Persian  origin,  and  to  signify  a  turban.  Nor  is  this  article 
of  dress,  in  a  Persian  of  rank,  unlike  the  swelling  form  of  a 
tulip. 

It  is  supposed  to  have  been  brought  from  Persia  to  the 
Levant.  So  late  as  the  year  1554,  the  Turks  charged  a  high 
price  for  these  flowers,  which  would  not  have  been  the  case 
had  the  Tulip  been  then  growing  spontaneously  in  that  coun- 
try. Pliny  makes  no  mention  of  the  Tulip,  which  is  corro- 
borative of  this  inference. 

Moore  alludes  to  the  similarity  of  the  tulip  to  the  tur- 
ban, in  his  "  Veiled  Prophet." 

"  What  triumph  crowds  the  rich  Divan  to-day, 
With  turban'd  heads,  of  every  hue  and  race, 
Bowing  before  that  veil'd  and  awful  face, 
Like  tulip-beds,  of  different  shape  and  dyes, 
Bending  beneath  th'  invisible  west-wind's  sighs." 

Skinner  gives  the  same  etymology  as  the  above,  and  says 
that  the  tulip  is  the  "  lily  of  Solomon." 

What  in  common  language  is  called  a  bulbous-root,  is 
by  Linnsus  termed  the  hybernacle,  or  winter-lodge  of  the 
young  plant.  As  these  bulbs  in  every  respect  resemble  buds, 
except  in  their  being  produced  under  ground,  and  include  the 
leaves  and  flowers  in  miniature,  which  are  to  be  expanded  in 
the  ensuing  spring.  By  the  careful  dissection  of  a  tulip  root 
during  the  winter,  cautiously  cutting  through  the  concentric 
coats,  longitudinally  from  the  top  to  the  base,  and  taking  them 
off  successively,  the  whole  flower  of  the  next  summer's  tulip 
is  beautifully  seen  by  the  naked  eye,  with  its  petals,  pistil, 
and  stamens. 

The  method  of  making  a  tulip  variegated,  or  striped  with 
divers  colours,  is  by  transplanting  from  a  rich  soil  to  one  mea- 
gre and  sandy.  The  plant  is  weakened  when  this  effect  is 
produced,  and  loses  almost  half  its  height.  [See  Darwin. 

And  sure  more  lovely  to  behold 

Might  nothing  meet  the  wistful  eye, 
Than  crimson  fading  into  gold, 

In  streaks  of  fairest  symmetry. 

Dr.  John  Langhorn.    Fables  of  Flora. 

The  Tulip  has  no  calyx.  Corolla  bell-shaped,  of  six 
petals,  ovate-oblong,  concave,  erect,  deciduous,  inferior. 
Seeds  numerous.  The  common  garden  tulip  is  called  T. 
Gesneriana.  Native  of  the  country  bordering  on  Mount 
Caucasus.  In  a  wild  state,  the  petals  are  crimson,  yellow- 
ish at  the  base — now  called  the  parrot  tulip. 

There  are  three  species  of  this  Tulip,  the  Cappadocia, 
Turkey,  and  Gesneriana.  The  last,  named  after  the  great 
Conrad  Gesner,  mentioned  in  the  note  on  Poppy,  and  it  is 
distinguished  from  the  others,  by  its  pubescent  scape,  spread- 
ing sweet-scented  corolla,  smallness  of  its  size,  and  early 
flowering. 

The  Tulip  is  made  the  emblem  by  which  an  oriental 
lover  makes  a  declaration  of  love — presenting  the  idea, 


.*.. 


that  like  that  flower,  he  nas  a  countenance  all  on  fire,  and  a 
heart  reduced  to  a  coal. 

"  Whose  leaves,  with  their  ruby  glow, 

Hide  the  heart  that  lies  burning  and  black  below." 

TULIP  TREE. 

Ldriodendron  Tulipifera. 

LAriodendron,  from  the  Greek  AI^IOV,  or  AKJIOV,  alily, 
and  jsvJjovj  a  tree;  the  Tulip-tree.  The  Encyclopedia  has 
it  Liriodendrum, — Nuttall,  and  other  Botanists,  write  it 
Liriodendron. 

The  L.  Tulipifera,  American  Tulip-tree,  or  yellow  Pop- 
lar, bears  flowers  resembling  a  small  tulip,  variegated  with 
pale  green,  yellow,  and  orange — standing  solitary  at  the  end 
of  the  buds  of  the  branches.  The  flowers  have  a  calyx  of 
three  leaves,  inferior.  Corolla,  bell-shaped,  of  six  petals. 

The  young  bark  of  this  tree  is  very  aromatic;  and  the 
remarkable  shape  of  the  leaves  cannot  fail  to  strike  the  most 
careless  observer;  they  seem  as  if  cut  off  with  scissors  at  the 
ends.  The  elliptical  obtuse  deciduous  stipulas,  which  cu- 
riously enfold  the  young  leaves,  are  also  remarkable.  The 
tree  is  celebrated  for  its  size  and  beauty.  Botanists  indicate 
two  varieties  of  it. 

Our  attention  has  lately  been  drawn  to  this  tree  by  the 
public  prints,  which  tell  us,  the  root  has  been  discovered  to 
be  a  sovereign  antidote  to  the  venomous  bite  of  snakes.  The 
bark  to  be  chipped  from  the  root  and  made  into  a  decoction; 
of  which  half  a  pint  is  to  be  drunk  every  half  hour — the 
wound  frequently  bathed  with  the  fluid,  and  the  bark  applied 
in  the  form  of  a  poultice  to  the  part. 

Of  this  genus  there  are  two  other  species  in  China,  and 
one  in  the  Mountains  of  Amboina. 

VENUS'  LOOKING-GLASS. 
Campanula  speculum. 

Campanula,  Latin,  for  a  little  bell. 

Speculum,  Looking-glass,  a  name  bestowed  upon  it,  as 
some  suppose,  on  account  of  the  glossy  nature  of  the  seeds; 
others,  from  the  corollas  seeming  to  reflect  the  rays  of  the 
sun. 

The  flowers  are  purple,  inclining  to  violet,  solitary.  Ca- 
lyx,  perianth,  superior,  five-cleft,  its  segments  the  length  of 
the  corolla.  Corolla,  monopetalous,  flat,  wheel-shaped,  deep- 
lydivided;  segments  egg-shaped;  valves  of  the  nectary  scarcely 
discernible.  Leaves  small,  sessile,  oblong,  slightly  scolloped. 
Stem,  from  six  to  ten  inches  high.  Root,  annual.  A  native 
of  corn-fields  in  the  south  of  Europe,  common  in  English 
gardens. 

Towards  evening  the  corollas  fold  up  into  a  pentagonal 
figure,  and  open,  again,  with  the  rays  of  Aurora. 

VERBENA,  OR  VERVAIN. 

Verbena,  De  Theis  derives  it  from  the  Celtic  ferfaen, 
to  remove;  alluding  to  one  of  its  supposed  medicinal  vir- 
tues. 

Some  derive  verbena  from  verro,  to  sweep  or  cleanse. 
The  Greeks  called  it  the  sacred  herb — and  it  was  with  this 


plant  alone  that  they  cleaned  the  festival  table  of  Jupiter,  be- 
fore any  great  solemnity  took  place. 

Verbena,  among  the  Romans,  was  the  name  of  some 
evergreen  aromatic  shrub,  esteemed  sacred,  and  employed  in 
various  solemn  ceremonies. 

It  was,  also,  one  of  those  plants  dedicated  to  Venus. 
Venus  the  victorious,  wore  a  crown  of  myrtle  interwoven 
with  vervain.  The  Roman  Ambassadors,  or  heralds  at  arms, 
were  crowned  with  vervain,  when  they  went  to  denounce 
war. 


A  wreath  of  vervain  heralds  wear, 
Amongst  our  gardens  named, 

Being  sent  the  dreadful  news  to  bear, 
Offensive  war  proclaimed. 


Drayton. 


From  its  reputed  medicinal  and  divine  properties,  it  was 
sometimes  worn  as  an  amulet  around  the  neck;  and  the  Ro- 
mans, in  the  beginning  of  the  year,  made  a  present  of  this 
herb  to  their  friends. 

The  common  Verbena  officinalis,  grows  wild  in  Eng- 
land— seldom  found  above  a  quarter  of  a  mile  from  a  house, 
which  occasioned  its  being  called  sampler's  joy,  because  it 
denoted  a  house  to  be  near,  for  the  relief  of  the  weary  travel- 
ler. This  species  is  without  fragrance. 

The  general  character  of  the  flower  of  the  Verbena  is 
a  calyx  with  five  teeth,  inferior.  Corolla,  funnel-shaped, 
rather  unequal,  curved;  limb  spreading,  cloven  half  way 
down  into  five,  more  or  less,  unequal  rounded  segments. 

VIOLET. 

Viola. 

Viola,  the  common  Latin  name  for  Violet,  etymology 
uncertain.  [SeeJ&es'  Cj/cZo.] 

Violet,  Latin,  viola,  is,  by  Ainsworth,  derived  from  via, 
a  way  where  men  go:  so,  he  says,  the  Greek  for  the  Violet, 
which  is  joi/,  is  derived  from  the  Greek  verb  i<v»«,  which  sig- 
nifies to  go:  possibly,  from  its  being  found  wild  on  road- 
sides. 

Some  etymologists  trace  the  name  of  this  flower  to  la, 
daughter  of  Midas,  who  was  changed  by  Diana  into  a  Violet, 
to  hide  her  from  Apollo.  And  the  beautiful  modest  blossom 
still  retains  the  bashful  timidity  of  the  nymph,  partially  con- 
cealing itself  amidst  its  foliage,  from  the  gaze  of  Phoebus. 


The  trembling  violet,  which  eyes 
The  Sun  but  once,  and  unrepining  dies. 


H.  Smith. 


Another  fabulous  account  of  the  violet,  is  that  it  sprung 
up  on  purpose  to  be  the  food  of  the  metamorphosed  Jo, 
daughter  of  Inachus,  who  had  been  changed  by  Jupiter  into 
a  beautiful  white  heifer,  but  fed  by  Juno's  order  upon  bitter 
herbs. 

"On  leaves  of  trees,  and  bitter  herbs  she  fed." 

Dryden's  Ovid. 


The  poetry,  the  romance,  the  scenery  of  every  country, 
is  embroidered  with  violets. 

Violets  dim 

But  sweeter  than  the  lids  of  Juno's  eyes 
Or  Cytherea's  breath.  Shaks. 

It  has  a  scent  as  though  love,  for  its  dower 

Had  on  it  all  his  odorous  arrows  tost; 
For  though  the  rose  has  more  perfuming  power, 

The  violet  (haply  'cause  'tis  almost  lost, 
And  takes  us  so  much  trouble  to  discover) 

Stands  first  with  most,  but  always  with  a  lover. 

Cornwall. 

The  prizes  of  the  Floral  Games  of  the  Ancients,  con- 
sisted of  a  golden  violet. 


And  Virgin's-bower,  trailing  airily, 
With  others  of  the  sisterhood. 


Keats. 


And  in  that  golden  vase  was  set, 
The  prize — the  golden  violet. 


L.E.L. 


Butler,  in  ridicule  of  love  speeches,  and,  at  the  same 
time,  in  recognition  of  the  lover's  attachment  to  this  flower, 
makes  his  hero,  Hudibras,  say  to  his  mistress: 

Where'er  you  tread  your  foot  shall  set 
The  primrose  and  the  violet. 

The  flower  of  the  genus  Viola,  has  a  perianth  inferior, 
short,  permanent,  of  five  ovate-oblong,  erect  leaves,  extended 
at  their  base.  Corolla  of  five  petals,  irregular,  spurred  be- 
hind, unequal.  Nectary  projecting  betwixt  the  calyx  leaves. 

VIRGIN'S  BOWER. 
Clematis. 

Clematis,  L.  from  the  G/.  xx.^*,  a  vine-shoot,  tendril, 
twig. 

The  flowers  of  this  genus  have  no  calyx.  Petals  four, 
five,  or  six,  sometimes  eight,  oblong,  lax,  pubescent.  Seeds 
tailed. 

There  are  many  species  of  them  scattered  over  the  globej 
several  indigenous  to  America. 

The  C.  Cirrhosa,  Evergreen  Virgin's  bower — called  in 
England  sometimes  Traveller's  joy,  wild  climber,  bride's 
wreath,  virgin's  bower,  etc.  Is  a  native  of  Andalusia — quite 
hardy,  first  cultivated  in  England  by  Gerard,  plants  of  which 
have  stood  more  than  fiRy  years,  in  the  Chelsea  garden.  It 
has  white  flowers,  petals  large,  elliptical,  pubescent  on  the 
outside.  Peduncle,  or  flower-stalk,  scarcely  an  inch  long, 
lateral,  axillary,  one-flowered.  Stem,  woody,  resembling  that 
of  the  vine,  sending  out  branches  from  every  joint,  which 
renders  it  a  thick  bus  iy  plant.  Leaves,  on  the  same  plant, 
both  simple  and  ternate. 

C.  Viorna,  native  of  Virginia  and  Carolina.  Root  pe- 
rennial; has  purple  or  bluish-violet  flowers,  petals  with  a 
whitish  cottony  border.  Anthers  terminated  with  a  tuft  of 
hairs.  Leaves,  compound  and  twice  compound,  opposite, 
petioled;  leaflets  from  nine  to  twelve,  three  on  each  pinna, 
generally  entire.  Seeds  with  long  plumose  tails. 


WALL  FLOWER. 

Cheiranthus. 
(See  Gilly  Flower.) 

Cheiranthus,  comprehends  Gilly  Flower,  and  Wall 
Flower. 

Wall  Flower  is  the  Keiri  of  the  Arabians.  The  mo- 
dern name  Cheiranthus,  for  wall-Jlower,  and  the  stock,  was 
given  by  Linnaeus,  who  derived  it  from  the  Arab-c. 

C.  Cheiri,  named  by  Gerard,  Yellow  Stock,  and  Wall 
Gilly-flower,  is  one  of  the  cruciform  flowers,  having  only 
four  petals,  which  expand  in  the  form  of  a  cross.  The  two 
principal  varieties  are  the  yellow,  and  the  yellow  and  bloody. 
Numerous  trivial  varieties  have  arisen  from  these. 

It  is  the  flower  with  which  the  romance  writers  embel- 
lish all  decaying  embankments,  falling  towers,  and  monastic 
ruins;  enlivening  those  relics  of  more  prosperous  times,  by 
its  gay  foliage,  and  sweet  perfume — fit  emblem  of  "Fidelity 
in  Misfortune." 

The  Wall-Jlower  springs  from  the  disjointed  stones. 

Greenwood. 

To  me  it  speaks  of  loveliness 

That  passes  not  with  youth; 
Of  beauty  which  decay  can  bless, 

Of  constancy  and  truth. 


But  in  adversity's  dark  hour 
When  glory  is  gone  by; 

It  then  exerts  its  gentle  power 
The  scene  to  beautify. 


An  emblem  true  thou  art 

Of  love's  enduring  lustre,  given 
To  cheer  a  lonely  heart. 


B.  Barton- 


Same. 


To  late  summer's  fragrant  breath 
Clematis'  feathery  garlands  dance. 


Snvith. 


WEEPING  WILLOW. 

Salix  Babylonica. 

Salix,  according  to  some  etymologists,  derived  from 
salio,  to  rise  or  spring  up.  In  allusion  to  the  quick  growth  of 
these  plants. 

The  Greek  synonyme,  means  to  go,  because  it  grows  fast. 
De  Theis  deduces  salix  from  the  Celtic  sal,  near,  and  lis, 
water;  applicable  to  the  ordinary  situation  of  the  Willow 
tribe.  The  Weeping  Willow  is  usually  planted  near  the  wa- 
ter, over  which  its  drooping  foJiage  has  an  appropriate  and 
picturesque  effect,  yet  we  are  told  that  it  thrives  best  in  a 
dry  gravelly  soil,  being  then  less  apt  to  split  or  decay. 

It  received  its  name  Salix  Babylonica  from  Linnaeus, 
in  allusion  to  the  137th  Psalm. 

Afflicted  Israel  shall  sit  weeping  down, 

Their  harps  upon  the  neighb'ring  willows  hnng, 

Nor  joyous  hymn  encouraging  their  tongue.          Prior. 


On  the  willow  thy  harp  is  suspended, 
Oh  Salem !  its  sound  should  be  free, 

And  the  hour  when  thy  glories  were  ended, 
But  left  me  that  token  of  thee. 

And  ne'er  shal'  its  soft  notes  be  blended 
With  the  voice  of  the  spoiler  by  me. 

Silent  their  harps — each  cord  unstrung, 
On  pendant  willow-blanches  hung. 


Byron. 


Booker. 


Willow,  (gwilou,  Welsh,)  is  defined  by  Johnson  to  be 
"  a  Tree,  of  the  boughs  of  which  a  garland  was  said  to  be 
worn  by  forlorn  'overs." 


In  love,  the  sad  forsaken  wight 
The  willow  garland  weareth. 


Drayton. 


I  offered  him  my  company  to  a  willow  tree,  to  make  him 
a  garland,  as  being  forsaken.  Shaks. 

In  such  a  night 

Stood  Dido,  with  a  willow  in  her  hand, 
Upon  the  wild  sea-banks,  and  waved  her  love 
To  come  again  to  Carthage.  Shaks. 


I'll  wear  the  willow  garland  for  his  sake. 


Same. 


The  S.  Babylonica  is  a  native  of  the  east.  Leaves  lan- 
ceolate, taper-pointed.  Catldn  naked,  accompanying  the 
leaves.  As  the  branches  droop,  the  catkins  ascend  in  a  re- 
curved manner. 

WHEAT. 

Triticum. 

Triticu:n,  an  old  Latin  name,  derived  from  tritum, 
ground  or  rubbed — in  allusion  to  the  manner  in  which  grain 
is  prepared  for  the  food  of  mankind. 

Wheat  E.  Sax.  hwcete;  Gothic,  hwit;  Dutch,  weit, 
wheat-grass,  or  corn. 

Corn  is  a  term  applied  to  all  sorts  of  grain  fit  for  food, 
particularly  Wheat,  Rye,  etc.  These  also  belong  to  the 
grand  division  of  Grosses,  which  are  distinguished  from 
other  plants  by  their  simple,  straight,  unbranched  stalk,  hol- 
low, and  jointed,  commonly  called  straw,  with  long  narrow 
tapering  leaves,  placed  at  each  knob  or  joint  of  the  stalk, 
and  sheathing  or  enclosing  it,  as  if  by  way  of  support.  The 
T.  Caninum  or  bearded  wheat-grass,  is  that  which  most 
pleases  the  eye  on  account  of  the  greater  length  of  its  beard, 
or  arista. 

The  Romans  cultivated  only  the  bearded  wheat,  its  bris- 
tles serving  to  protect  it  from  birds,  etc. 

The  flower  of  triticum,  consists  of  a  calyx  of  two 
valves,  common  receptacle  zigzag,  elongated  into  a  spike. 
Glume  (the  husk  or  chaff,)  transverse,  containing  about  three, 
or  more  flowers.  Corolla  of  two  nearly  equal  valves,  the 
size  of  the  calyx. 

Ceres,  the  goddess  of  corn  and  harvests,  was  represent- 
ed with  a  garland  of  ears  of  corn  on  her  head.  And  the 
commemoration  of  the  loss  of  her  daughter,  Proserpine,  was 


celebrated  about  the  beginning  of  harvest;  that  of  her  search 
after  her,  at  the  time  that  corn  is  sown  in  the  earth. 

WOODBINE. 

Lonicera. 
(See  Honeysuckle.) 

Woodbine,  or  Woodbind,  no  doi'bt  from  the  flexibility 
of  its  branches,  and  its  habit  of  twining  round,  or  binding 
the  trees,  or  wood,  that  may  be  placed  near  it. 

But  those  who  wear  the  woodbine  on  their  brow, 
Were  knights  of  Jove  who  never  broke  their  vow; 
Firm  to  their  plighted  faith,  and  ever  free 
From  fears,  and  fickle  chance,  ard  jealousy. 

Ih-yderi's  Vision  of  Chaucer. 

YARROW 

•Achillea,  Millefolium. 

•Achillea,  Milfoil,  so  called  from  Jlchilles,  who  is  sup- 
posed to  have  acquired  some  knowledge  of  botany  from  his 
master  Chiron,  and  to  have  used  this  plant  for  the  cure  of 
wounds,  etc.  The  JL.  JVKllefolium,  or  Yarrow,  is  reputed 
to  have  great  medicinal  virtue. 

The  Yarrow,  wherewithal  he  stopt  the  wound-made 
gore.  Drayton. 

We  find  in  Medical  books,  that  the  green  leaves  of 
Yarrow  pounded,  and  applied  to  a  bruise,  dissipates  it  in  a 
few  days. 

Millefolium,  of  the  two  Latin  words,  mille,  a  thousand, 
and  folium,  a  leaf. 

Yarrow,— Skinner  derives  it  from  the  Anglo-Saxon 
Gearewe,  etc.,  and  adds,  that  Minshrew  derives  it  from  ar- 
row, because  it  is  the  best  healer  of  wounds,  and  was,  there- 
fore, in  former  times,  happily  applied  to  wounds  made  by  ar- 
rows—or, perhaps,  says  he,  it  comes  from  the  Saxon  gear, 
the  year,  because  it  retains  its  foliage  almost  through  the 
whole  year. 

The  common  Yarrow,  Ji.  Millefolium,  is  mixed  instead 
of  hops,  in  their  ale,  by  the  inhabitants  of  Dalekarlia,  in  or- 
der to  j,lve  it  an  inebriating  quality. 

It  is  generally  esteemed  a  troublesome  and  noxious  weed 
in  pastures.  Its  white  blossoms,  nevertheless,  beautify  our 
fields,  and  could  not  well  be  spared  by  the  lovers  of  flowers. 
Their  pearly  blossoms  have  sometimes  been  seen,  at  this  day, 
forming  a  beautiful  ornament  for  a  lady's  hair. 

ZINNIA. 

Zinnia,  named  by  Linnaeus,  in  honour  of  Dr.  Jno.  G. 
Zinn,  professor  of  physic  and  botany  at  Gottingen,  etc. 

There  are  many  species  of  Zinnia,  native  of  warm  cli- 
mates; many  of  them  indigenous  in  America.  The  common 
red  Zinnia,  or  Z.  Multijlora,  is  found  on  the  banks  of  the 
Mississippi.  Rays,  yellow,  orange,  or  brick  dust  colour. 
The  Jlowers  stand  each  on  a  hollow,  deeply  furrowed,  termi- 
nal stalk,  from  one  to  two  inches  long,  much  thicker  than 
the  stem,  and  gradually  swelling  upwards.  The  disk  is  coni- 


cal  and  acute,  composed  of  reddish  or  tawny  florets,  accom- 
panied by  the  prominent,  dark-green,  or  blackish,  scales  of 
the  receptacle;  the  radius  of  this  compound  flower,  consists 
of  ten  or  more  broad,  elliptical,  usually  emarginate  florets, 
of  a  deep  brick-red,  and  very  smooth  above;  pale  greenish, 
and  rough  beneath;  reticulated  with  veins,  and  finally  becom- 
ing rigid,  or  membranous.  Calyx  imbricated,  somewhat 
ovate,  with  numerous  obtuse,  erect,  permanent  scales. 

Zinnia  contains  plants  of  the  annual  flowering  kind, 
of  which  the  species  cultivated  are  the  N.  American  plant 


just  noticed.  The  Z.  Pauc\flora,  Yellow  Zinnia,  with  a  less 
hairy  stem,  and  greater  breadth  of  leaf,  somewhat  heart- 
shaped,  at  their  base.  Native  of  Peru.  Z.  VerticUlate, 
whorl-leafed  Z.  Flowers,  a  multiplied  radius  of  deep  scarlet, 
the  disk  broader,  and  less  conical,  than  either  of  the  others. 
Z.  Elegans,  purple-flowered  Zinnia.  And  Z.  Tenuifiora, 
slender-flowered  Z.  The  flowers  being  the  smallest  of  their 
genus,  and  distinguished  by  their  bright  red  narrow  revolute 
radiant  florets,  very  rough  at  the  edges;  the  tubular  florets 
are  yellow.  The  three  last  named  are  natives  of  Mexico. 


EXPLANATION  OF  BOTANICAL  TERMS  USED  IN  FLORA'S  DICTIONARY. 


Jlculcus,  prickly,  sharp-pointed  projections  from  the  bark,  as 
in  the  rose.  A  thorn  or  spine,  is  a  sharp-pointed 
projection  growing  from  the  woody  substance  of  a 
plant,  as  in  hawthorn. 

•Acuminate,  pointed,  having  a  taper,  or  awl-shaped  extremity. 

•Amentum,  see  Catkin. 

•Articulate,  jointed;  where  one  leaf  grows  out  of  the  top  of 
another;  or  the  jointed  culm  or  straw  of  grasses. 

Jlwl-shaped,  see  Subulate. 

•Awn,  the  sharp  points  or  beards  issuing  from  the  glume,  are 
called  awns,  or  aristse,  as  in  bearded  wheat. 

•Axillary,  when  the  flower-stalk  grows  between  the  leaf  and 
the  stem. 

Banner,  see  Standard. 

Binate,  growing  in  pairs. 

Biternate,  twice  ternate,  or  doubly  three-leafed. 

Bracteated,  (L.  bractea,)  a  floral  leaf,  differing  from  the 
other  leaves  in  shape  and  colour,  generally  situated  on 
the  peduncle,  so  near  the  corolla,  as  easily  to  be  mis- 
taken for  the  calyx. 

Caducous,  falling  early.  A  caducous  calyx  falls  before  the 
corolla  is  well  unfolded,  as  in  the  poppy.  Caducous 
leaves,  fall  before  the  end  of  the  summer. 

Campanulate,  in  the  form  of  a  bell. 

Canaliculate,  channeled,  having  a  deep  furrow  or  channel; 
applied  to  the  stem,  leaf,  or  petiole  of  plants,  some- 
times to  the  calyx. 

Capitate,  growing  in  a  head,  applied  to  a  flower,  or  stigma. 

Capsule,  the  seed-vessel  of  a  plant;  a  dry  membranaceous 
hollow  pericarp. 

Catkin,  (or  •Amentum,  L.  a  thong,  or  strap,)  is  a  composi- 
tion of  flowers  and  chaff",  on  a  long,  slender  thread- 
shaped  receptacle;  the  whole  somewhat  resembling  a 
cat's  tail  in  shape,  as  in  the  willow. 

Ciliate,  fringed  with  parallel  hairs. 

Claw,  the  narrow  part  of  the  petal  below,  by  which  it  is  in- 
serted or  attached. 

Compound  flower,  a  flower  of  the  class  syngenesia,  consist- 
ing of  florets  with  united  anthers. 

Cone,  a  scaly  fruit  like  that  of  the  pine.    See  Strobiks. 

Connate,  opposite,  with  the  bases  united,  or  growing  into 
one;  as  in  the  upper  leaves  of  honeysuckle. 

Coriaceous,  (from  corium,  leather,)  stiff,  like  leather,  or 
parchment. 

Corollule,  one  of  the  partial  flowers  which  make  a  compound 
one;  the  floret  in  an  aggregate  flower. 

Corymb,  (corymbus,  L.  a  top,  head,  or  cluster,)  a  kind  of 
spike,  in  which  the  partial-stalks  are  gradually  longer 
as  they  stand  lower  on  the  common  stalk,  so  that  all 
the  flowers  are  nearly  on  a  level. 

Cotyledon,  (a  hollow,  or  cavity.)  In  botany,  the  perishable 
lobe  of  the  seeds  of  plants.  It  involves,  and  nourishes 
the  embryo  plant,  and  then  perishes.  Some  seeds 
have  two  lobes,  others  only  one,  and  some  none. 


Crenate,  (scolloped,)  when  the  teeth  are  rounded,  and  not 
directed  towards  either  end  of  the  leaf,  as  in  ground 
Ivy. 

Cucullate,  hooded  or  cowled;  rolled  or  folded  in;  as  in  the 
spathe  of  •Arumtriphyllum,  or  Indian  turnip. 

Culm,  or  straw,  is  the  peculiar  stem  of  grasses,  rushes,  etc. 

Cyme,  has  the  general  appearance  of  an  umbel;  as  in  umbel- 
liferous plants,  its  common  stalks,  all  spring  from  one 
centre,  but,  differing  from  those  plants,  in  having  the 
stalks  variously  and  alternately  subdivided,  as  in  elder, 
and  guelder-rose. 

Deciduous,  falling,  not  perennial,  or  permanent.  A  decidu- 
ous leaf,  falls  in  Autumn.  A  deciduous  calyx,  that 
which  falls  after  the  coral  opens. 

Decumbent,  leaning  upon  the  ground,  the  base  only  erect. 

Dejlexed,  bending  downward  arch- wise. 

Dentate,  toothed,  notched,  having  points  like  teeth  on  the 
margin  of  the  leaf. 

Denticulate,  minutely  toothed. 

Depressed,  where  the  radical  leaves  are  pressed  close  into 
the  ground. 

Dichotomous,  forked;  dividing  into  two  equal  branches. 

Diaphanous,  transparent,  clear. 

Digitate,  fingered,  when  several  leaflets,  or  little  leaves  pro- 
ceed from  the  summit  of  a  common  foot- stalk;  or,  a 
leaf  which  branches  into  several  distinct  leaflets,  like 
fingers. 

Disk,  the  central  part  of  a  radiate  compound  flower.  Or  the 
whole  surface  or  top,  in  distinction  from  the  edge. 

Divaricate,  standing  out  wide. 

Dorsal,  pertaining  to  the  back,  dorsal  awn,  etc. 

Drupe,  (Drupa,  Drupae,)  a  pulpy  seed-vessel,  consisting  of  a 
hard  nut  or  stone,  encompassed  by  a  soft  pulpy  sub- 
stance, as  the  cherry,  olive,  etc. 

Emarginate,  notched  at  the  end;  applied  to  the  leaf,  coral, 
or  stigma. 

Ensiform,  see  sword-shaped  leaf. 

Entire.  An  entire  leaf  is  without  teeth  or  notches.  An  en- 
tire stem,  is  one  without  branches. 

Fascicle,  (a  bundle,)  a  term  applied  to  flowers  on  little  foot- 
stalks, variously  inserted,  and  subdivided,  collected 
into  a  close  bundle,  level  at  the  top,  as  in  sweet-wil- 
liam. 

Filiform,  having  the  form  of  thread,  o.r  filament;  of  equal 
thickness  from  top  to  bottom. 

Floral-leaf,  see  Bractea. 

Floret,  a  little  flower;  the  separate  little  flower  of  an  aggre- 
gate flower. 

Floscule,  a  partial,  or  lesser  floret  of  an  aggregate  flower. 

Gibbous,  swelling  on  both  sides,  or  on  one 

Gland,  Glandular,  having  excretory,  or  secretory  ducts  or 
vessels.  Abundant  on  the  stalk,  and  other  parts  of 
the  Moss  Rose,  and  constituting  the  most  prominent 
character  of  that  flower. 


Glume,  or  Husk,  the  calyx  or  blossom  of  grasses  and  corn, 
formed  of  one  or  more  thin,  dry,  semi-transparent 
leaves,  called  valves,  embracing  the  seed,  often  termi- 
nated by  the  arista,  or  beard.  The  chaff. 

Hirsute,  rough  with  hairs. 

Hispid,  rough}  having  strong  hairs,  or  bristles,  more  than 
hirsute. 

Imbricated,  lying  over  each  other,  like  tiles  on  a  roof;  as 
leaves  in  the  bud. 

Inferior.  An  inferior  flower,  is  one  in  which  the  calyx  and 
corolla  are  below  the  germ. 

Inflexed,  turned,  bent. 

.Inflorescence,  a  term  used  to  express  the  particular  manner  in 
which  flowers  are  situated  upon  a  plant.  As  a  bunch, 
(thyrsus)  a  dense  or  close  panicle,  corymb,  spike,  ra- 
ceme, umbel,  whorl,  cyme,  fascicle,  etc. 

Involucre,  or  involucrum,  a  sort  of  general  calyx  serving  for 
many  flowers;  generally  situated  at  the  base  of  an  um- 
bel, or  head;  as  in  co; nus  florida,  or  dogwood. 

Involute,  rolled  spirally  inwards;  the  reverse  of  revolute. 

Keel,  the  under  petal  of  a  papilionaceous  flower.  Also  the 
lower  side  of  the  midrib  of  a  leaf. 

Keeled,  or  carinated,  having  a  longitudinal  prominence  on 
the  back. — See  also  Papilionaceous. 

Labiate,  having  an  upper  and  lower  lip,  as  in  flowers  of  the 
class  Didynamia. 

Lamina,  the  border,  the  upper  part,  broad  or  spreading  part 
of  a  petal,  in  distinction  from  its  claw. 

Lanceolate,  shaped  like  a  lance,  oblong,  and  gradually  taper- 
ing towards  each  extremity,  spear-shaped,  as  in  the 
willow. 

Leaflet,  a  little  leaf,  or  one  of  the  divisions  of  a  compound 
leaf. 

Legume,  a  seed-vessel  of  two  valves,  in  which  the  seeds  are 
fixed  to  one  suture  only.  A  pod:  differing  from  sili- 
qua,  (silique,  E.)  in  which  the  seeds  are  attached  to 
both  sutures. 

Limb,  the  border  or  upper  spreading  part  of  a  monopetalous 
corol. 

Linear,  of  the  same  breadth  throughout,  except  at  the  extre- 
mities; as  in  most  of  the  grasses. 

Lip,  the  upper  or  under  side  of  the  mouth  of  a  labiate  corolla, 
as  in  sage,  hyssop,  etc. 

Lobed,  when  divided  to  the  middle,  into  parts  distant  from 
each  other,  with  rounded,  or  convex  margins,  as  in  the 
leaves  of  sassafras,  etc. 

J\tembranaceous,  flatted  or  resembling  parchment.  A  mem- 
branaceous  leaf  has  no  distinguishable  pulp  between 
the  two  surfaces.  Very  thin  and  delicate. 

Midrib,  the  large  central  vein  of  a  leaf,  which  is  a  continu- 
ation of  the  petiole. 

Monopetalous,  having  only  one  petal,  consisting  of  two  parts, 
a  tube,  or  lower  part,  and  a  limb. 

Multifid,  many  cleft;  having  many  divisions. 

Nerves,  parallel  veins. 

Obovate,  inversely  ovate ;  having  the  narrow  end  downward. 
Officinal,  officinalis,  kept  for  sale  as  medicine. 
Orbiculate,  in  the  form  of  an  orb;  a  leaf  that  has  both  its 
longitudinal,  and  transverse  diameters  equal. 


Ovate,  egg-shaped ;  and  the  base  wider  than  the  other  end. 

Palmate,  hand-shaped;  with  the  fingers  extended,  or  spread. 

Panicle,  (L.  Panicula)  a  species  of  inflorescence  in  which 
the  flowers  or  fruits  are  scattered  on  peduncles,  vari- 
ously subdivided,  without  order,  as  in  Oat,  and  grasses. 

Paniculated,  having  branches  variously  subdivided,  as  a  pa- 
niculate stem.  Or  having  the  flowers  in  panicles. 

Papilionaceous,  resembling  the  butterfly;  as  the  pea.  Usu- 
ally four-petaled,  having  an  uoper  spreading  petal, 
called  the  banner  or  standard:  two  side  petals,  term- 
ed wings,  and  a  lower  petal  styled  keel. 

Pappus,  the  down  of  seeds;  as  that  of  the  dandelion.  A 
feathery  appendage. 

Parasitic,  growing  on  another  plant,  and  drawing  nourish- 
ment from  it;  as  the  Mistletoe. 

Patulous,  spread'ng:  as  a  patulous  calyx,  etc. 

Pectinated,  a  pinnatifid  leaf,  the  segments  of  which  are  re- 
markably narrow,  like  the  teeth  of  a  comb. 

Pedate,  a  ternate  leaf,  with  its  lateral  leaflets  compounded 
in  thei-  fore -part. 

Pedical,  the  ultimate  branch  of  a  peduncle.    A  little  stalk. 

Peduncle,  or  flower-stalk,  is  a  partial  trunk,  springing  from 
the  stem,  and  supporting  the  flowers,  but  not  the 
leaves. 

Pellicle,  a  very  thin  stratum,  or  coat. 

Peltate,  or  sliield-'brmed,  when  the  foot-stalk  is  inserted 
into,  or  near  the  centre  of  the  lower  surface  of  the 
leaf,  as  in  the  nasturtium. 

Pencilled,  ending  like  a  painter's  pencil,  or  brush. 

Perfoliate,  surrounding  the  stem  on  all  sides  and  perforated 
by  it.  It  differs  'Yom  connate,  in  not  consisting  of  two 
leaves;  as  in  Eupatorium  perfoliatum,  or  American 
Thorough-wort. 

Pericarp,  the  seed-vessel  of  a  plant. 

Persistent,  not  falling  off.  Those  parts  of  a  flower  are  per- 
sistent which  remain  till  the  fruit  is  ripe. 

Personate,  masked.  Having  the  mouth  of  the  corolla  closed 
by  a  proinnent  palate;  as  in  the  Toadfax,  (Antirrhi- 
num.') 

Petiole,  a  leaf-stalk;  the  foot-stalk  of  a  leaf. 

Petiolated,  growing  on  foot-stalk,  as  in  the  currant. 

Pilose,  hairy.    With  a  stiff  pubescence. 

Pinnate,  a  species  of  compound  leaf  wherein  a  simple  peti- 
ole has  several  leaflets  attached  to  each  side  of  it. 

Pinnatifid,  a  species  of  simple  leaf,  divided  transversely,  by 
oblong  horizontal  segments,  not  extending  to  the  mid- 
rib. 

Raceme,  or  cluster,  consists  of  numerous,  rather  distant  flow- 
ers, each  on  its  own  proper  stalk,  and  all  connected  by 
one  common  stalk,  as  a  bunch  of  currants. 

Radiant,  rayed,  or  radiate  coral  or  flower,  is  a  compound 
flower,  consisting  of  a  disk,  in  which  the  corollets  or 
florets  are  tubular,  and  regular,  and  of  a  ray,  in  which 
the  florets  are  irregular. 

Radical,  proceeding  immediately  from  the  root;  as  the  leaves 
of  the  cowslip. 

Ray,  the  diverging  florets  or  petals  which  form  the  outside  of 
radiate  flowers,  cymes,  and  umbels. 


Receptacle,  the  end  of  a  flower-stalk;  being  the  base  to 
which  most  or  all  the  parts  of  fructification  are  at- 
tached. 

Recurved,  bent  back  or  downward. 

Reflexed,  bent  backward. 

Reniform,  kidney-shaped.    Heart-shaped  without  the  point. 

Reticulate,  net  like.    Having  veins  distributed  like  net-work. 

Revolute,  ro'led  back,  or  downward. 

Rhomboid,  diamond-shape,  approaching  to  a  square. 

Ringent,  or  labiate  corol;  one  which  is  irregular,  monopeta- 
Icus,  with  the  border  usually  divided  into  two  parts, 
called  the  upper,  and  lower  lip;  gaping  like  the  mouth 
of  an  animal. 

Rugose,  as  leaves  of  sage. 

Runcinate,  having  large  teeth  pointing  backward;  as  the 
leaves  of  the  dandelion. 

Sarmentose,  running  on  the  ground  and  striking  roots  from 
the  joints,  as  the  strawberry. 

Scabious,  rough. 

Scape,  a  stalk  which  springs  from  the  root,  and  supports 
flowers  and  fruit,  but  no  leaves.  As  in  Narcissus, 
Dandelion,  and  Hyacinth. 

Scarious,  tough,  thin,  and  semi-transparent,  dry,  and  sonorous 
to  the  touch;  as  a  perianth. 

Serrated,  Serratures,  like  the  teeth  of  a  saw,  and  pointing 
towards  the  extremi.y  of  the  leaf,  as  in  the  nettle  and 
rose.  Some  leaves  are  doubly  serrated,  having  the 
teeth  again  cut  into  other  little  teeth,  as  in  canterbury 
bell. 

Sessile,  or  sitting,  when  a  leaf  grows  immediately  to  the 
stem,  or  stalk,  branch,  or  root,  without  any  foot-stalk. 
A  Sessile  flower,  has  no  peduncle,  or  flower-stalk. 

Sheath,  a  tubular  or  folded  leafy  portion  inclosing  the  stem; 
as  the  leaves  of  grasses. 

Silique,  (Siliqua,  L.)  a  pod  or  seed-vessel  usually  longer 
than  it  is  broad,  with  two  valves  or  covers,  and  sepa- 
rated by  a  linear  receptacle,  the  seeds  alternately  fixed 
to  both  sutures,  or  seams,  as  in  the  common  stock. 

Simple  leaves,  are  such  as  have  only  a  single  leaf  on  the 
petiole  or  foot-stalk;  not  divided,  branched  or  com- 
pounded. 

Simple,  not  divided,  branched,  or  compounded. 

Sinuate,  having  sinuses  at  the  edge. 

Sinus,  a  large  rounded  indentation  or  cavity. 

Spadix,  an  elongated  receptacle  of  flowers,  commonly  pro- 
ceeding from  a  spathe. 

Spathe,  a  sheathing  calyx  opening  lengthwise  on  one  side, 
and  consisting  of  one  or  more  valves;  as  in  the  onion. 
See  Spadix. 

Spike,  a  species  of  inflorescence,  in  which  sessile  flowers 
are  alternate,  on  a  common  simple  peduncle,  as  in 
Wheat,  Rye,  Lavender,  etc.  An  ear  of  corn,  or  grain, 
is  called  a  spike;  it  is  particularly  applicable  to  ears 
of  maize. 

Spur,  a  sharp  hollow  projection  from  a  flower,  commonly  the 
nectary. 

Standard,  the  upper  petal,  or  banner,  of  a  papilionaceous 
corol. 


Stipule,  a  scale  or  small  leaf  situated  on  each  side,  and  some- 
times on  one  side  only,  of  the  base  of  the  leaf-stalks, 
for  the  purpose  of  supporting  them  at  their  first  ap- 
pearance, as  in  vetches.  Sometimes  it  is  united  lat- 
terly to  the  foot-stalk,  as  in  the  rose. 

Striated,  marked  with  fine  hollow  parallel  lines. 

Strobiles,  or  Cone,  a  kind  of  seed-vessel,  formed  by  a  catkin, 
with  hardened  scales,  and  containing  a  seed  withiu  the 
base  of  each  scale,  as  in  the  fir. 

Subsessile,  almost  sessile;  having  very  short  foot-stalks. 

Subulate,  awl-shaped;  linear,  or  slender  at  the  base,  and  gra- 
dually tapering  towards  the  end,  like  an  awl. 

Sutures,  or  seams,  the  edges  by  which  the  valves  are  con- 
nected, which  is  the  external  covering  of  the  seed. 

Sword-shaped,  or  Ensiform,  two  edged,  tapering  to  a  point, 
and  somewhat  convex  on  both  surfaces,  as  in  Iris. 

Tendril,  a  filiform  appendage  of  certain  vines,  which  sup- 
ports them  by  turning  round  other  objects. 

Terminal,  when  it  terminates  a  stem,  or  branch. 

Ternate,  growing  by  threes,  as  in  Trefoils. 

Thread-shaped,  see  filiform. 

Tomentous,  downy,  nappy,  cottony;  covered  with  hairs  so 
close  as  to  be  scarcely  discernible. 

Trifid,  divided  into  three  parts;  by  linear  sinuses,  with 
straight  margins;  three-cleft. 

Truncate,  having  a  square  termination  as  if  cut  off;  as  the 
leaves  of  the  Tiriodendron  Tulipifera. 

Tuberous,  from  tuber,  a  bunch.  Consisting  of  roundish 
fleshy  bodies,  or  tubers,  connected  into  a  bunch  by  in- 
tervening threads;  as  the  roots  of  potatoes,  artichokes, 
etc. 

Umbel,  a  kind  of  inflorescence  in  which  the  flower-stalks  di- 
verge from  one  centre  like  rays;  as  in  the  Parsnip, 
Parsley,  etc.  See  Cyme. 

Undulate,  when  the  middle  part  of  the  leaf,  especially  as  it 
approaches  the  margin,  is  acutely  folded  up  and  down, 
as  in  the  Mallows . 

Valve,  the  outer  coat,  shell  or  covering  of  a  capsule  or  other 
pericarp,  or  rather  one  of  the  pieces  which  compose 
it;  also,  one  of  the  leaflets  composing  the  calyx  and 
corol  in  grasses. 

Veiny,  when  the  fibres  on  the  surface  of  the  leaf  are  branched, 
as  in  the  hawthorn. 

Ventricose,  swelling  out  in  the  middle;  as  a  ventricous  pe~ 
rianth. 

Verticillate,  whorled.  Having  leaves  given  off  in  a  circle 
round  the  stem. 

Villous,  having  the  hairs  long  and  soft. 

Vivaparous,  producing  a  collateral  offspring  by  means  of 
bulbs. 

Whorl,  or  Verticillate,  in  which  the  flowers  surround  the 
stem  in  a  sort  of  ring,  though  they  may  not  perhaps  be 
inserted  on  all  sides  of  it,  but  merely  on  two  opposite 
sides,  and  even  on  one  side  only. 

Wings,  the  two  lateral  petals  of  a  papilionaceous  flower. 

Winged,  having  the  sides  extended  into  a  leafy  expansion. 


POPULAR  NAMES. 

0 

CLASS                 AND 

ORDER. 

NATURAL    ORDER. 

ORDER  OP  JUSSIEU. 

17 
13 
12 
16 
6 
21 
5 

6 

21 

19 
13 

21 
5 
10 
14 
5 
14 
9 
4 
17 
21 
17 
13 
20 
12 
16 
5 
5 
5 
10 
22 
19 
19 
17 
5 

13 
5 

19 

5 
3 

6 

21 
6 
19 
19 

19 

12 
4 
12 
5 

19 

19 
21 
14 
8 

1« 

Diadelphia  .     .     . 
Polyandria  .     .     . 
Icosandria   .     .     . 
Monadelphia    .     . 
Hexandria   .     .     . 
Monoecia     .     .     . 
Pentandria  .     .    . 

Hexandria   .     .     . 

Monoecia     .     .    . 

Syngenesia  .    .     . 
Polyandria  .    .    . 
Moncecia     .     .    . 
Pentandria  .     .     . 
Decandria   .     .     . 
Didynamia  .     .     . 
Pentandria  .     .     . 
Didynamia  .     .     . 
Enneandria      .     . 
Tetrandria  .     .     . 
Diadelphia  .     .    . 
Monoecia     .    . 
Diadelphia  .     .    . 
Polyandria  .     . 
Gynandria  .     .     . 
Icosandria  .     .     . 
Monadelphia    .     . 
Pentandria  .    .     . 
Pentandria  .    .    . 

.    Decandria     .... 
.     Polygynia      .... 
.     Monogynia    .... 
.     Polyandria    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.     Pentandria    .... 
.     Digynia    

Papilionaces     .     .     . 
Mtiltisiliqucc  .... 

Leguminosae. 
Ranunculaces. 
Rosaces. 
Malvaceae. 
Asphodeli. 
Amaranthi. 
Amaranthi. 

Narcissi. 

Corymbifers. 

Coryrnbifers. 
Ranunculaces. 
same. 
Lysimachis. 
same. 
Labiatae. 
Gerania. 
Labials. 
Lauri. 
Schrophularis. 
Leguminoss. 
Euphorbia;. 
Leguminoss. 
Ranunculaceaj. 
Aroideae. 
Rosaceae. 
Aurantia. 
Campanulaceae. 
Rubiaceae. 
Campanulaceae. 
Caryophylles. 
same. 
Coryrnbifers. 
Corymbifers. 
Leguminoss. 
Amaranthi. 

Ranunculaceaj. 
Convolvuli. 
Corymbiferae. 

Lysimachis. 
Irides. 
Lilia. 
same. 
Narcissi. 
Lilia. 
Corymbiferae. 

Cichoraces. 

Ficoides. 
Caprifolia. 
Rosaces. 
Caprifolia. 

Corymbifers. 

Corymbifera. 
same. 
Scrophularis. 
Onagrs. 
Gerania. 

Almond,  flowering  .     . 

Columnifera  .... 
Lilia  Coronaris. 
Miscellaneae  .... 
Holeraces     .... 
Lilia.     The  Spatha-  ) 
cese  of  Lin.    .     .     J 
Composite.       Nuca-  ) 
menttaces  .     .     .    $ 
Composite  Radiati 
Multisiliquae  .... 
Conifers  

Amaranth      .... 
Amaranth  Globe    .     . 

Amaryllis       .... 

.    Monogynia    .... 

.     Pentandria    .... 

.     Polygamia  Superflua  . 
Polygynia     .... 
.    Monadelphia     .     .     . 
.    Monogynia   .... 
.     Pentagynia    .... 
.     Gymnospermia  .     .     . 
.     Monogynia   .... 
.     Gymnospermia  .     .     . 
.     Monogynia   .... 
.     Monogynia    .... 
.     Decandria     .... 
.    Tetrandria    .... 
.     Decandria     .... 
.     Polygynia      .... 
.     Polyandria    .... 
.     Polygynia      .     .    •.     . 
.     Polyandria    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 

Amer.  Star  wort    .     . 

Arbor  Vits    .... 

Bachelor's  Button  .     . 
Balm    

Caryophylleoe     .     .    . 
Verticillatae  .... 
Corydales      .... 
Verticillats  .... 
Holeraces     .... 
Personals     .... 
Papilionaces     .    .    . 
Tricoccs  
Papilionaces      .     . 
Multisiliqus  .     .     •     . 
Piperits    

Basil    

Bay  Leaf  

Belvidere       .... 
Bird's  foot  trefoil    .     . 
Box      

Butter  Cup    .... 
Calla  .ZEthiopica    .     . 
Calycanthus  .... 
Camella  Japonica  .     . 
Canterbury  Bell     .     . 
Cape  Jasmine    .     .     . 
Cardinal's  Flower  .     . 
Catch  Fly     .... 
Cedar       

Undetermined  by  Lin. 
Columnifera?      .     .    . 
Campanaces      .     .     . 
Contorts  

Campanaces     .     .     . 
Caryophylleae    .    .     . 

Decandria   . 

Trigynia  

China  Aster  .... 
Chrysanthemum     .     . 

Syngenesia  .     .     . 
Syngenesia  .     .     . 
Diadelphia  .    ..     . 
Pentandria  .     .     . 

Poylandria  .     .     . 
Pentandria  .     .    . 
Syngenesia  . 

Pentandria  .     .     . 
Triandria    .     .     . 
Hexandria  .     .     . 
Monoccia     .     .     . 
Hexandria   . 
Syngenesia  .     .     . 
Syngenesia  .     .     . 

Syngenesia  .     .     . 

Icosandria   .     .     . 
Tetrandria  . 
Icosandria  .     .    . 
Pentandria  .      .     . 

Syngenesia  .     .     . 

Syngenesia  .     .     . 
Moncecia     .     .     . 
Didynamia  .     .     . 
Octandria    .     .     . 
Monadelphia    .     . 

.     Polygamia  Superflua  . 
.     Polygamia  Superflua  . 
.     Decandria     .... 
.     Monogynia    .... 

.     Pentagynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Polygamia  Frustanea  . 

.     Monogynia    .... 
.     Monogynia    .... 
.     Monogynia    .... 
.    Monadelphia      .     .     . 
.     Monogynia    .... 
.     Polygamia  Superflua  . 
.     Polygamia  Superflua  . 

.     Polygamia  .ZEqualis    . 

.     Pentagynia        .     .     . 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.     Polygynia      .... 
.    Trigynia  .         ... 

.     Polygamia  Superflua  . 

.    Polygamia  JEqualis    . 
.    Monadelphia      .     .     , 
.    Angiospermia     . 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.     Heptandria    .... 

Composite  Radiati     . 
Composite  Discoides 
Papilionaces     .     .     . 
Holeraceae          .     .     . 
Mullisiliqus,  or           > 
Corniculats   .    .     J 
Campanaces     .     . 
Composits.    Opposi-  ) 
tifolis    .     .     .     .     $ 

Cock's  Comb     .     .     . 
Columbine    .... 
Convolvulus  .... 
C  oreopsis  Arkansa  .     . 

Ensats     .... 
Coronariae     .... 

Crown  Imperial     .    . 

Daffodil    

Spathaceae     .... 
Corymbifers 
Composite  Discoideae 
Composites.     Semi-    \ 
flosculosae  .     .     .     J 
Succulents    .... 
Stellatae    
Senticos83      .... 
Dumosae   
Compositae.     Nuca-    ) 
mentaceae  .     .     .     J 
Composite  Discoidae  . 
Conifers  

Dahlia      

Dandelion     .... 
Dew  Plant    .... 

Eglantine      .... 
Elder  

Everlasting   .... 

Fever  Root  .... 
Fir,  Balm  of  Gilead   . 
Fox  Glove    .... 

LuridiB     

Calycanthems  .     .     . 
Gruinales      .... 

Geranium      .... 

POPULAR  NAMES. 

0 
• 

i 

CLASS                AND 

ORDER. 

NATURAL   ORDER. 

ORDER   OP  JUSSIEU. 

Gilly  Flower     .    .    . 
Golden  Rod,  or          V 
Virga  Aurei  .     .     J 

15 

1!) 

r, 

3 

12 
5 
5 
13 

K; 

4 

K; 

15 

11 
5 

5 

1 

(; 

10 
2 

ii 

12 
0 
3 

r, 
17 
20 
13 
13 
10 
5 
14 
IS 
21 
2 
6 
(i 
17 
17 
13 
•2\ 

17 
13 
1!) 
5 
6 
11 
23 
12 

21 

12 
6 

S 
21 
5 
21 
3 
5 
2 
IS 
li) 
5 
5 

Tetradynamia  .  . 
Syngenesia  .  .  . 

Pentandria  .  .  . 

Triandria  .  .  . 

Icosandria  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 
Polyandria  .  .  . 
Monadelphia  .  . 
Tetrandria  .  .  . 
Monadelphia  .  . 

Telradynamia  .  . 

Didynamia  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 

Pentandria  .  .  . 

Tetrandria  .  .  . 
Hexandria  .  .  . 
Decandria  .  .  . 
Diandria  .  .  . 
Didynamia  .  .  . 
Icosandria  .  .  . 
Hexandria  .  .  . 
Triandria  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 
Diadelphia  .  .  . 
Gynandria  .  .  . 
Polyandria  .  .  . 
Polyandria  .  .  . 
Decandria  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 

.     Siliquosa  .... 
.    Polygamia  Superflua  . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
Diffvnia 

Siliquosa!  

Cruciferae. 
Corymbiferae. 

Vites. 

and  several  Polyga- 
mous. 
Rosaceae. 
Cisti  et  Violeae. 
Borragincae. 
Ranunculaceae. 
Malvaceae. 
Rhamni. 
Malvaceae. 

Cruciferae. 

Rutaceae. 
Caprifolia. 

Rhododendra. 

Rubiaceae. 
Asphodeli. 
Caprifolia. 
Jasmineae. 
Bignoniae. 
Ficoideae. 
Narcissi. 
Irides. 
Caprifolia. 
same. 

Salicariae. 
Ranunculaceae. 
Rhododendra. 
Caprifolia. 
Labiatae. 
Aurantia. 
same. 
Jasmineae. 
Lilia. 
Asparagi. 
Leguminosae. 
Leguminosae. 
Ranunculaceae. 
Amaranthi. 
Leguminosae. 
Magnoliae. 
Corymbiferae. 
Nyctagines. 
Colchicaceae. 
Capparides. 
Leguminosae. 
Myrti. 

Myrti. 
Narcissi. 
Geraniis  Affine. 
Urticae. 
Solaneae. 
same. 

Apocineae. 
Jasmineae. 
Aurantia. 
Corymbiferae. 

same. 

Composite  Discoideas 

Hederaceae,  or  per-     ) 
haps  Cucurbitacea?  $ 
Some  few  are  Monce- 
cius,  none  Dioecious, 
Pomaceaj  
Campanaceae      .     .     . 
Asperifolia;    .... 
Multisiliquae  .... 
Columnifera  .    .    .    . 

Grass   .... 

Hawthorn      .... 
Heart's  Ease      .     .     . 
Heliotrope     .... 
Hellebore      .... 

.    Digynia    
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia   .     .     .     . 
.     Polygynia      .... 
.    Polyandria    .... 
.    Tetragynia    .... 
.    Polyandria    .... 

Holly   

Hollyhock     .... 
Honesty,  or  Satin       ) 
Flower.     .     .     .     J 
Honey  Flower  .     .     . 
Honeysuckle      .     .     . 
Honeysucklp,  or          7 
Azalea  .    .    .    .     J 
Houstonia      .... 

Columniferae.    .    .     . 

.     Angiospermia     .    .     . 
.    Monogynia    .... 

-    Monogynia    .... 

.    Monogynia    .... 
•    Monogynia    .... 
•    Digynia    

Corydalea      .... 
Aggregate     .... 

Bicornes  

Stellatae    

Coronariae      .... 
Succulentae    .... 
Separiae     

Hydranger     .... 
Jasmine,  white  .     .     . 
Jasmine,  yellow      .     . 
Ice  Plant  
Jonquil  (A  Narcissus) 
Iris  (A  Flag)     .     .    . 

.    Monogynia   .... 
.    Angiospermia    .    .    . 
.     Pentagynia    .... 
.    Monogynia   .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Decandria     .... 
Diandria  

Personals     .... 
Succulentae    .... 
Spathaceae     .... 
Ensatae     

Hederaceae    .... 
Leguminosae 
Orchideae       .... 
Calycanthemae  .    .    . 
Multisiliquae  .... 
Bicornes  

Laburnum     .... 
Ladies'  Slipper      .     . 
*Lagerstro3mia  .     .     . 

.    Monogynia  .... 

Laurel  (Kalmia)    .     . 
Laurustinus  .... 
Lavender      .... 
Lemon  blossom     .    . 

.    Monogynia  .... 
Trigynia  

Verticillatae   .... 
Bicornes  

Polyadelphia  .  . 
Cryptogamia  .  . 
Diandria  .  .  . 
Hexandria  .  .  . 
Hexandria  .  .  . 
Diadelphia  .  .  . 
Diadelphia  .  .  . 
Poylandria  .  .  . 
Monoecia  .  .  . 
Diadelphia  .  .  . 
Polyandria  .  .  . 
Syngenesia  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 
Hexandria  .  .  . 
Dodecandria  .  . 
Polygamia  .  .  . 
Icosandria  .  .  . 

Cryptogamia  .  . 

Icosandria  .  .  . 
Hexandria  .  .  . 
Octandria  .  .  . 
Mona;cia  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 
Monoecia  .  .  . 
Triandria  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 
Diandria  .  .  . 
Polyadelphia  .  . 
Syngenesia  .  .  . 
Pentandria  .  .  . 
Pentandria  . 

.    Icosandria     .... 
Alga;    

.    Monogynia   .... 
.    Monogynia   .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Decandria     .... 
.    Decandria     .... 
.    Pentagynia    .... 
.    Pentandria    .... 
•    Decandria     .... 
.    Polygynia     .... 
.     Polygamia  necescaria  . 
.    Monogynia    .... 
Trigynia  

Lily     

Coronariae     .... 
Sarmentaceae     .     .     . 
Papilionaceas      .    .    . 
Papilionaceae     ... 
Multisiliquee.    .    .     . 
Miscellaneae  .... 
Papilionaceae     .    .     . 
Coadunatae    .... 
Compositae  Discoideae 
Aggregate     .... 
Spathaceae     .... 
Miscellaneas  .... 
Lomentaceae.    .    .    . 
Hesperideae  .... 

Hesperideae  .... 
Spathaceae     .... 
Trihilateae     .... 
Scabridffi  
Ijinilii'      

Lily  of  the  Valley  .    . 

Lotos  or  Lotus  .     .    . 
Love  in  a  mist  .    .    . 
Love  lies-a-bleeding   . 
Lupine     

Marvel  of  Peru      .     . 
Meadow  Saffron     .     . 
Mignonette  .... 
Mimosa    

.     Trigynia  ..... 
.    Monoecia  
.     Monogynia    .... 
The  second  order  of  ) 
this  class.                 $ 
.     Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia   .... 
.    Tetrandria    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Polyandria    .... 
.    Digynia    
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Icosandria     .... 
.    Polygamia  Superflua  . 
.     Digynia     
.    Trvzinia  . 

Mock  Orange    .    .    . 

Myrtle      

Narcissus      .... 
Nasturtium   .... 
Nettle       

Nightshade    .... 
Oak      

Amentaceae   .... 
Gramina  

Oat  .          .     .     .     • 

Olive    

Separias     
Bicornes   
Compositae    .... 
Umbellatae     .... 
Cucurbitaceae     . 

Orange  blossom     .     . 
Ox  Eye     

Parsley     

fPassion  flower  . 

POPULAR   NAMES. 

c 
• 

CLASS                AND 

ORDER. 

NATURAL    ORDER. 

ORDER   OF  JUSSIEU. 

Pea,  everlasting      .    . 
Pea,  sweet    .... 

17 
17 

13 

Diadelphia  .     .     . 
Diadelphia  .    •    • 

.    Decandria  Superflua  . 
.     Decandria     .... 

Digynia    

Papilionaceae      .    .    . 
Papilionaces     .    .     . 
Multisiliquae  Helle-   > 

Leguminoss. 
Leguminosae. 

Peach  blossom  .    .     . 
Pennyroyal,  cunila  .     . 

12 
2 
<> 

Icosandria  .     .    . 
Diandria     .    .     . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 

borus     .     .     .     .     J 
Pomaces  
Verticillate   .... 

Rosaces. 
Labiatx. 

Phlox  

5 

Pentandria  .     .    . 

.    Monogynia    .... 

Pine     

21 

.    Monadelphia     .     .     . 

^1 

Monadelphia      .     .    . 

Pink     

10 

5 

Polyanthos    .... 

5 
19 

Pentandria  .     .    . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
Monogynia   .... 

Precis      

Lysimachiae. 

Poppy  

13 

Polyandria  .     .     . 

.    Monogynia   .... 

Papaveraceas. 

Pride  of  China  .     .     . 

in 

Decandria   .     .     . 

.    Monogynia    .... 

Trihilate  

Melia). 

Primrose,  evening  .     . 

8 

<> 

Octandria    .    .     . 
Pentandria  .    .    . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia   .... 

Calycanthems  .     .    . 

Onagrx. 

Privet  

9 

Diandria     .     .     . 

.    Monogynia   .... 

Quamoclit     .... 

5 

1r> 

Pentandria  .     .     . 

.    Monogynia    .... 

Campanaceae     .    .     . 

Convolvuli 

Ragged  Robin        .     . 
Ranunculus  .... 

10 
13 
1ri 

Decandria   .    .    . 
Polyandria  .     .     . 
Tetradynamia  >     . 

.    Pentagynia    .... 
.    Polygynia      .... 

Caryophylleze     .     .     . 
Multisiliquse  .... 

same. 
Ranunculaceae. 

Rose     

1° 

.     Polygynia      .... 

Rose  Campion  .    .    . 
Rosemary      .... 
Rue      

10 
2 
10 

Decandria  .     .     . 
Diandria      .     .     . 

.    Pentagynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 
Monogynia   .... 

Caryopbylleae    .    .    . 
Verticillatae   .... 

Ranunculaces. 

Labiate. 

2 

Monogynia  .... 

\ 

.    Monogynia  .... 

Scarlet  Lychnis     .    . 
Snap  Dragon     .    .    . 
Snow  Ball     .... 

10 
14 
5 

Decandria  .     .    . 
Didynamia  .     .    . 
Pentandria  .     .     . 

.    Pentagynia    .... 
.     Angiospermia    .     .     . 

Caryophylleae     ,    .    . 
PersonatsB     .... 

same. 
Scrophulariae. 

Snow  Drop   .... 
Sorrel,  wild  .... 

6 
10 

Hexandria   .     .     . 
Decandria   .     .    . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Pentagynia   .... 

Spathacese     .... 

Narcissi, 
same. 

Speedwell     .... 
Spider  Wort      .    . 

2 
6 

Diandria      .    .    . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Monogynia    .... 

Personals     .... 

Pediculares. 

Star  of  Bethlehem  .     . 
St.  John's  Wort     .     . 

6 

IS 

Hexandria  .     .    . 
Polyadelphia    . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
Polyandria    .... 

Coronaria?     .... 

Asphodeli. 

Strawberry  Tree    . 

10 

.    Monogynia    .... 

Erica?. 

5 

Sun  Flower  .... 

Sweet  Briar  .... 
Sweet  William  . 

19 

12 
10 

Syngenesia  .    .    . 
Icosandria   .     .     . 

.    Polygamia  Frustranea 

.    Polygynia      .... 
Digynia    

Composite  Opposi-   > 
tifolia?   .     .    .    .     J 
Senticoss      .... 

Corymbiferse. 

Rosaces. 
Caryophyllese. 

Syringa  Carolina    .     . 
Thistle      

12 

1ft 

Icosandria   .    .    . 

.    Monogynia    .     .    . 
.     Polygamia  -iEqualis 

Hesperidea?  .... 

Myrti. 
Cinarocephalas. 

Thorn  Apple 

•-, 

Pentandria  .    .    . 

.    Monogynia    .     .     . 

Solaneae. 

Thyme      

11 

r, 

Monogynia    .    .    . 

Tulip   

fi 

Hexandria   .     .    . 

.    Monogynia    .     .    . 

Coronariaj     .... 

Lilia. 

Tulip  Tree   .     •     .     . 
Venus'  Looking  Glass 
Verbena    

13 
5 
14 

Polyandria  .     .    . 
Pentandria  .    .    . 
Didynamia  .     .    . 

.    Polygynia      .     .    . 
.    Monogynia    .    .     . 
.    Gymnospermia  .     . 

Coadunats    .... 
Campanacea?     .     .     . 
Personals     .... 

Magnolia?. 
Campanulaceae. 
Vitices  et  Verbenacese. 

Violet  

5 

Pentandria  .     .     . 

.    Monogynia    .    .    . 

Campanaceas     .    . 

Cisti  et  Violes. 

Virgin's  Bower  .    .    . 
Wall  Flower     .    .     . 

13 

IT 

Polyandria  .     .    . 
Tetradynamia  .     . 

.    Polygynia     .    .    . 

Multisiliqux  .... 

Ranunculaces. 
Crucifers. 

2° 

.    Diandria  .... 

Wheat  

3 

Triandria    .     .     . 

.    Digynia    

Woodbine     .... 

5 

19 

Pentandria  .    .    . 

.    Monogynia    .... 
.    Polygamia  Superflua  . 

Aggregate     .    .    .    . 

Caprifolia. 

Zinnia  

19 

Syngenesia  .    .    . 

.    Polygamia  Superflua  . 

Composite  Oppositi-  V 

C  orymbifera. 

folia?     ....*') 

*  Linnsus  makes  it  Icosandria — modern  botanists,  Polyandria. 

t  Schrebe  is  preferred  for  the  class  and  order  of  the  Passion  Flower.    See  Rees'  Cyclopedia.    Linnseus  makes  it 
Gynandria.    Pentandria.    Modern  botanists,  Monadelphia.    Pentandria,  according  to  Cavanilles  and  Wildenow 


DEDICATION  OF  FLOWERS. 


THE  Roman  Catholic  Monks,  or  the  observers  of  Roman  Catholic  rules,  have  compiled  a  catalogue  of  Flowers, 
for  each  day  in  the  year,  and  dedicated  each  flower  to  a  particular  Saint,  on  account  of  its  flowering  about  the  time  of  the 
Saint's  festival.  Such  appropriations  form  a  Floral  Directory,  which  has  been  abstracted  from  Hone's  Every  Day  Book, 
printed  in  London  in  the  year  1826. 


FLORAL  DIRECTORY. 


JANUARY. 

1.  Laurustinus,  Viburnum  tinus,  St.  Faine  or  Fanchea, 
an  Irish  saint,  of  the  sixth  century. 

2.  Groundsel,  Senecio  vuJgaris,  St.  Macarius,  of  Alex- 
andria, A.  D.  394. 

3.  Iris,  Persian,  Iris  persica,  St.  Genevieve,  patroness 
of  Paris,  A.  D.  422. 

4.  Hazel,  Corylus  avellana,  St.  Titus,  disciple  of  St. 
Paul. 

5.  Hellebore,  Helleborus  faetidus,  St.  Simeon  Stylites, 
of  Rome. 

6.  Moss,  screw,  Tortula  rigida,  St.  Nilammon. 

January  the  6th,  is  called  twelfth  day,  (by  the  French, 
I*e  jour  des  Rois,)  because  it  falls  on  the  twelfth  day  after 
Christmas.  There  is  a  difference  of  opinion  as  to  the  origin 
of  Twelfth  Day,  yet  all  concur  in  the  same  end;  that  is, 
to  do  honour  to  the  Eastern  Magi.  Brand  tells  us,  "  that  the 
practice  of  choosing  a  king  on  twelfth  .day,  is  similar  to  a 
custom  that  existed  among  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans, 
who  on  the  festival  days  of  Saturn,  about  this  season  of  the 
year,  drew  lots  for  kingdoms,  and  like  kings,  exercised  their 
temporary  authority."  Mr.  Fosbroke  affirms  that  "  the  king 
of  Saturnalia  was  elected  by  beans,  and  from  thence  came 
our  king  and  queen,  on  this  day."  In  France  the  Twelfth- 
cake  is  plain,  with  a  bean;  the  drawer  of  the  slice  containing 
the  bean,  is  King  or  Queen.  All  drink  to  her,  or  his  Ma- 
jesty, who  reigns,  and  receives  homage  from  all  during  the 
evening. 

"  They  come !  they  come !  each  blue-eyed  sport, 

The  twelfth-night  king,  and  all  his  court — 
Tis  mirth  fresh  crown'd  with  mistletoe; 

Music,  with  her  merry  fiddles, 

Joy,  '  on  light  fantastic  toe,' 
Wit,  with  all  his  jests  and  riddles, 

Singing  and  dancing  as  they  go." 

7.  Laurel,   Portugal,  Prunus   lusitanica,   St.  Kenti- 
gerna. 

8.  Tremclla,  yellow,  Tremella  deliquescens,  St.  Gudula. 
Patroness  of  Brussels. 

9.  Laurel,  common,  Prunus  lauro-cerasus,  or  common 
small  fruited  cherry — St.  Marciana,  of  Rome. 

10.  Gorse,   Vlex  Europxus,  St.  William,  of  Bourges, 
A.  D.  1207. 

11.  Moss,  early,  Bryum  hornum,  Swan-neck  thread- 
moss.    St.  Theodosius. 

12.  Moss,  hygrometic,  Funaria  hygrometica,  St.  Arca- 
dius. 


13.  Yew  Tree,  common  Taxus  baccata,  St.  Veronica. 
A  nun  of  Milan,  A.  D.  1497. 

14.  Strawberry,  barren,  Fragaria  sterilis,  St.  Hilary, 
A.  D.  368. 

15.  Ivy,  Hedera  helix,  St.  Paul — the  first  Hermit. 

16.  Nettle,  common  red  Dead,  N.  Lamium  purpureum, 
St.  Marcellus.     Pope. 

17-  Anemone,  garden,  Anemone  hortensis,  St.  Anthony. 
Patriarch  of  Monks,  A.  D.  251. 

18.  Moss,  four-toothed,  Bryum  pellucidum,  St.  Prisca. 
A  Roman  Martyr. 

19.  Nettle,  white  Dead,  Lamium  album,  St.  Martha. 
A  Roman  Martyr,  A.  D.  270. 

20.  Nettle,  woolly  Dead,  Lamium  garganicum,   St. 
Fabian.    Pope. 

21.  Hellebore,  black,  Helleborus  niger,  St.  Agnes.    A 
special  Patroness  of  purity.     Beheaded  at  the  age  of   13, 
A.  D.  304. 

22.  Grass,  early  whitlow,  Draba  verna,  St.  Vincent.  A 
Spanish  Martyr. 

23.  Peziza,  Peziza  acetabulum,  St.  Raymond,  of  Pen- 
nafort,  A.  D.  1275. 

24.  Moss,  stalkless,  Phascum  muticum,  St.  Timothy. 
Disciple  of  St.  Paul,  A.  D.  250. 

25.  Hellebore,  winter,  Helleborus  hyemalis.    The  con- 
version of  St.  Paul. 

On  this  day,  (25th  Jan.)  prognostications  of  the  months 
were  drawn  for  the  whole  year.  If  fair,  and  clear,  there  was 
to  be  plenty;  if  cloudy,  or  misty,  much  cattle  would  die;  if 
rain,  or  snow  fell,  then  it  presaged  a  death;  and  if  windy, 
there  would  be  wars. 

If  Saint  PauFs  Day  be  fair  and  clear, 
It  does  betide  a  happy  year; 
But  if  it  chance  to  snow  or  rain, 
Then  will  be  dear  all  kinds  of  grain: 
If  clouds,  or  mists,  do  dark  the  sky, 
Great  store  of  birds  and  beasts  shall  die; 
And  if  the  winds  do  fly  aloft, 
Then  wars  shall  vex  the  kingdoms  oft. 

Willsford's  Nature's  Secrets. 

St.  Paul's  Day,  is  the  first  festival  of  an  Apostle,  in  the 
year.  According  to  Dr.  Foster,  it  is  the  festival  of  the  con- 
version of  St.  Paul. 

26.  Butter-bur,  white,  Tussilago  alba,  or  Colt's  foot. 
St.  Polycarp. 

27.  Moss,  earth,  Phascum  cuspidatum,  St.  Chrysostum. 


•*• 


28.  Daisy,  double,  Bellls  perennis  plenus,  St.  Marga- 
ret of  Hungary,  A.  D.  1271. 

29.  Fern,  flowering,  Osmunda  regalis,  St.  Francis  of 
Sales,  A.  D.  1622. 

30.  Spleen-wort,  Jlsplenium  trichomanes,  St.  Martina. 

31.  Hart's  tongue,  or  spleen-wort,  Jlsplenium  scolopen- 
drium,  St.  Marcella,  A.  D.  410. 

FEBRUARY. 

1.  Moss,  lesser  water,  Fontinalis  minor,  St.  Ignatius. 

And    Bay  tree,  Laurus  nobilis,  to    St.   Bridget,    Pa- 
troness of  Ireland. 

2.  Snow-drop,    Galanthus  nivalis,  the  purification  of 
the  blessed  Virgin  Mary. 

3.  Moss,  great  water,   Fontinalis    antipyretica,   St. 
Blase,  of  Armenia,  A.  D.  316. 

4.  Moss,  common    hair,  or    Goldilocks,  Polytrichum 
commune,  St.  Jane,  or  Queen  Joan,  A.  D.  1505. 

Bay,  Indian,  Laurus  Indica,  St.  Margaret,  of  England. 

5.  Primrose,  common,  Primula  vulgaris,  St.  Agatha.  A 
Sicilian  Martyr,  A.  D.  251. 

Primrose,  red,  Primula  acaulis,  St.  Adelaide,  A.  D. 
1015. 

6.  Hyacinth,  blue,  Hyacinthus  orientalis,  St.  Dorothy, 
A.  D.  308. 

7-  Cyclamen,  round-leafed,  Cyclamen  coum,  St.  Romu- 
ald,  1027. 

8.  Moss,  narrow-leafed,  spring,  Mnium  androgynum, 
St.  John,  of  Matha,  1213. 

9.  Narcissus,  Roman,  Narcissus  Romanus,  St.  Apol- 
lonia,  A.  D.  249. 

10.  Mezereon,    Daphne    J\Iezereon,   St.    Scholastics, 
A.  D.  543. 

Moss,  silky  fork,  Mnium  heteromallum,  St.  Coteris, 
4th  Century. 

11.  Primrose,  red,  Primula  verna^rubra,  St.  Theodora, 
Empress,  367. 

12.  Anemone — noble  Liverwort,  JLnemonc   hepatica, 
St.  Eulalia,  of  Barcelona. 

13.  Polyanthos,  Primula   Polyanthos,  St.  Catharine 
de  Ricci,  1589. 

14.  Crocus,   yellow,  Crocus  msesiacus,  or  C.  aureus, 
St.  Valentine.     St.  Valentine,  is  the  lover's  saint.     He  was 
Priest,  of  Rome,  and  married  there,  about  the  year  A.  D.  270. 

The  14th  of  February,  is  the  day  on  which  those  charm- 
ing little  missives,  yclep'd  Valentines,  cross,  and  intercross 
each  other,  at  every  street  and  turning.  The  weary,  and  all- 
for-spent  twopenny  postman  sinks  beneath  a  load  of  delicate 
embarrassments,  not  his  own. 

"  Where  can  the  postman  be,  I  say? 
He  ought  to  fly — on  such  a  day! 
Of  all  days  in  the  year,  you  know, 
Its  monstrous  rude  to  be  so  slow: 
The  fellow's  so  exceeding  stupid — 
Hark — there  he  is! — oh  the  dear  cupid." 

15.  Crocus,  cloth  of  gold,  Crocus  sulphureus,  St.  Sigi- 
frida,  Bishop  of  Sweden,  A.  D.  1002. 

16.  Primrose,  lilac,  Primula  acaulis  plena,  St.  Juliana. 


17-  Crocus,  Scotch,  Crocus  susianus,  St.  Flavian,  Arch- 
bishop of  Constantinople,  449. 

18.  Speedwell,  wall,  Veronica  vernus  arvensis,  St.  Si- 
meon, Bishop  of  Jerusalem,  A.  D.  116. 

19.  Speedwell,  field,   Veronica  agrestis,   St.  Barbatus, 
patron  of  Benevento,  Bishop,  A.  D.  682. 

20.  Cynoglossum  omphalodes,  or   C.  lusitanicum,  St. 
Mildred,  Abbess  of  Munster. 

21.  Crocus,  white,  Crocus  albus,  St.  Servianus,  Bishop, 
A.  D.  452. 

22.  Margaret,  herb,  Bellis  perennis,  St.  Margaret,  of 
Cortona,  1297. 

23.  Apricot  tree,  Primus  armeniaca,  St.  Milburge,  of 
England. 

24.  Fern,  great,  Osmunda  regalis,  St.  Ethelbert,  King 
of  Kent,  England. 

25.  Peach  blossom,  Jlmigdalus  persica,  St.  Walburg, 
Abbess  of  Swabia,  Germany. 

26.  Periwinkle,    lesser,    Vlnca    minor,    St.    Victor, 
7th  Century. 

27.  Lungwort,  Pulmonaria   officinalis,  St.  Leander, 
Bishop,  596. 

28.  Crocus,  purple,  Crocus  vernus,  St.  Proterius,  Patri- 
arch of  Alexandria,  A.  D.  557. 

MARCH. 

1.  Leek,  common,  Jllliumporrum,  St.  David,  of  Wales, 
Archbishop,  A.  D.  544. 

Wearing  the  Leek,  was  customary  in  the  time  of  Shaks- 
peare.  It  is  noticed  in  his  K.  H.  V. 

The  Welshman,  Fluellen,  wears  his  leek  in  the  battle 
of  Agincourt. 

2.  Chickweed,  dwarf  mouse-ear,  Cerastium  pumilum, 
St.  Chad,  or  Ceada,  Martyr  under  the  Lombards,  in  the  6th 
century. 

3.  Marigold,  golden-fig,  Mesembryanthemum  aureum, 
St.  Cunegundes,  Empress,  A.  D.  1640. 

4.  Chickweed,  common,   Jllsine  media,  St.   Casimir, 
Prince  of  Poland,  A.  D.  1458. 

5.  Hellebore,  green,   Helleborus  viridis,   St.  Adrian, 
A.  D.  309. 

6.  Lily,  lent,  Pseudo-narcissus  multiplex,  St.  Colette, 
Bishop. 

7.  Daffodil,  early,  Narcissus  simplex,  St.  Perpetua. 
She  was  martyred,  under  the  Emperor  Severus,  A.  D.  203. 

8.  Rose,  ever  bio  wing,  Rosa  semperjlorens,  St.  Rosa,  of 
Viterbo,  A.  D.  1261. 

Jonquil,  great,  Narcissus  lostus,  St.  Felix,  A.  D.  646. 

9.  Daffodil,    hoop-petticoat,    Narcissus  bulbocodium, 
St.  Catharine  of  Bologna,  A.  D.  1463. 

10.  Chickweed,  upright,  Veronica  triphyllos,  St.  Droc- 
tavoeus,  Abbot,  A.  D.  580. 

11.  Heath,  cornish,  Erica  vagans,  St.Eulogius,  of  Cor- 
dova, A.  D.  851. 

12.  Ixia,  or  crocus  leaved  Mistletoe,  Ixia  bulbocodium, 
or  Viscum  albus  bulbus:  St.   Gregory,  the  Great,  Prartor 
of  Rome,  A.  D.  574. 


13.  Heart's  Ease,  Viola  tricolor,  St.  Euphrasia,  A.  D. 
410. 

14.  Bindweed,  mountain,  Soldanella  alpina,  St.  Maud, 
or  Matilda,  Queen,  A.  D.  968. 

15.  Colt's-foot,  common,  TussUago  farfara,  St.  Zache- 
ry,  Pope,  A.  D.  752. 

16.  Daffodil,  nodding,  Narcissus  nutans,  St.  Julian,  of 
Cilicia. 

17.  Violet,  sweet,  Viola  odorata,  St.  Gertrude,  Abbess, 
A.  D.  626. 

17.  Shamrock,  White  Trefoil,  or  Dutch  clover,  Tr\fo- 
lium  repens,  St.  Patrick,  Apostle  of  Ireland. 

18.  Leopard's  bane,  great,   Doronicum  pardalianches 
St.  Cyrill,  Archbishop  of  Jerusalem,  A.  D.  386. 

19.  Star  of  Bethlehem,  yellow,  Ornithogalum  luteum, 
St.  Joseph,  spouse  of  the  Virgin  Mary. 

20.  Violet,  dog's,    Viola  comma,   St.   Wulfran,   Arch- 
bishop of  Sens,  A.  D.  720. 

21.  Fumitory,  bulbous,  Fumaria  bulbosa,  St.  Bennet, 
or  Benedict,  Abbot,  Founder  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict, 
of  Rome,  A.  D.  543. 

22.  Ficaria  verna,  St.  Catharine  of  Sweden,  Abbess, 
A.  D.  1381. 

23.  Daffodil,  peerless,  Narcissus  incomparabUis,  St. 
Alphonsus  Turibius,  Archbishop  of  Lima,  A.  D.  1606. 

24.  Saxifrage,  golden,  Chrysosplenium  oppositifolium, 
St.  Irenajus,  Bishop  of  Sirmium,  A.  D.  304. 

25.  Marigold,    Calendula  qfficinalis,   Annunciation  of 
the  B.  V.  Mary. 

26.  Henbane,  night-shade  leaved,  Hyoscyamus  scopalia, 
St.  Braulio,  Bishop  of  Saragossa,  A.  D.  646. 

27-  Jonquil,  sweet,  Narcissus  odorus,  St.  John,  of 
Egypt,  Hermit,  A.  D.  394. 

28.  Leopard's  bane,  Doronicum  Plantagineum,   St. 
Priscus,  A.  D.  260. 

29.  Ox-lip,  or  great  cowslip,  Primula  elatior,  St.  Eua- 
tatius,  Abbot,  A.  D.  625. 

Fumitory,  Fumaria  officinalis,  St.  Jonas,  A.  D.  327- 

30.  Water-cress,  Cardamine  hirsuta,  St.  John,  of  Cli- 
macus. 

Daffodil,  lesser,  Narcissus  minor,  St.  Zoziraus,  Bishop 
of  Syracuse,  A.  D.  660. 

31.  Benjamin  tree,  Lauras  benzoin,  St.  Benjamin,  Dea- 
con, Martyr,  A.  D  424. 

APRIL  1.    ALL  FOOLS'  DAY. 

The  Romans  consecrated  the  first  day  of  April  to  Venus, 
the  goddess  of  beauty,  queen  of  laughter,  etc.  It  is  customa- 
ry on  this  day,  to  practise  jocular  deceptions,  as  various,  as 
the  fancies  of  the  gay  youngsters,  who  delight  in  playing  off 
the  humours  of  the  day,  upon  all  ages  and  ranks,  that  come 
their  way. 

1.  Mercury,  French  annual,  Mercwialis  annua,  St. 
Hugh,  Bishop,  A.  D.  1132. 

2.  Violet,  white,  Viola  alba,  St.  Francis,  of  Paula,  A  Ca- 
labrian. 

3.  Alkanet,   evergreen,   Jinchusa  sempervirens,    St. 
Agape,  A.  D.  304. 


4.  Crown  Imperial,  Red  Fritillaria  imperialis,  St.  Isi- 
dore, Bishop  of  Seville,  636. 

5.  Crown  Imperial,  Fritillaria  imperialis  lutea,  St. 
Vincent  Ferrer,  A.  D.  1419. 

6.  Hyacinth,  starch,  Hyacinthus  racemosus,  St.  Sixtus 
I.  Pope,  A.  D.  2. 

7-  Anemone,  wood,  Anemone  nemorosa,  St.  Aphraa- 
tes,  4th  Century. 

8.  Ivy,  ground,  Glechoma  hederacea,  St.   Dionysius, 
Bishop  of  Corinth,  A.  D.  2. 

9.  Polyanthos,  red,  Primula,  St.  Mary,  of  Egypt,  A.  D. 
421. 

10.  Violet,  pale,  Viola  tonbrigens,  St.  Mechtildes,  Ab- 
bess—after 1300. 

11.  Dandelion,  Leontodon  taraxacum,  St.   Leo,  the 
Great,  Pope,  A.  D.  461. 

12.  Saxifrage,  great  thick-leaved,  Saxifragum  crassifo- 
lium  St.  Zeno,  Bishop,  380. 

13.  Narcissus,  green,  Narcissus  mridiflorus,  St.  Her- 
menigild,  Martyr,  586. 

14.  Borage,  common,  Borago  officinalis,  St.  Lidwina, 
A.  D.  1184. 

15.  Stitch-wort,  greater,   Stellaria  holostea,  St.  Peter 
Gonzales,  1246. 

16.  Tulip,  yellow,  Tulipa  sylvestris,  St.  Joachim,  of 
Sienna,  A.  D.  1305. 

17.  Arum,  Friar's-cowl,  broad-leaved,  Jirum  arisarum, 
St.  Stephen,  of  Citeaux,  Abbot,  A.  D.  1134. 

18.  Narcissus,  musk,  Narcissus  Moschato,  St.  Apollo- 
nius,  A.  D.  186. 

19.  Garlic,  Jlllium  ursinum,  St.  Leo  IX.  Pope,  A.  D. 
1054. 

20.  Snow-flake,  spring,  Leucoium  vernum,  St.  Agnes, 
of  Monte  Pulciano,  A.  D.  1317. 

21.  Narcissus,  cypress,  Narcissus  orientalis  albus,  St. 
Anselm,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

22.  Crow-foot,  wood,  or  goldilocks,  Ranunculus  auri 
comus,  St.  Rufus,  of  Glendaloch. 

23.  Harebell,  Hyacinthus  non  scriptus,  St.  George,  the 
Martyr,  Patron  of  England. 

24.  Black  thorn,  Prunus  spinosa,  St.  Fidelia. 

25.  Tulip,  clarimond,  Tulipa  prxcox,  St.  Mark,  the 
Evangelist. 

26.  Erysimum,  yellow,  Erysimum  barbarea,  St.  Richa- 
rius,  Abbot,  A.  D.  645. 

27.  Daffodil,  great,  Narcissus  major,  St.  Anastasius, 
Pope,  401. 

28.  Arum,  spotted,  Jlrum  maculatum,  Sts.  Didymus 
and  Theodora,  A.  D.  304. 

29.  Herb  Robert,  Geranium  robertianum,  St.  Robert, 
Abbot  of  Molesme,  A.  D.  1110. 

30.  Cowslip,  Primula  veris,  St.  Catharine,  of  Sienna, 
A.  D.  1380. 

MAY  1. 

"  May  day  is  chiefly  spent  in  dancing  round  a  tall  pole, 
which  is  consecrated  to  the  Goddess  of  Flowers — without 
the  least  violation  to  be  offered  to  it,  in  the  whole  circle  of 
the  year." 


The  May-pole  is  up, 

Now  give  me  the  cup, 
I'll  drink  to  the  garlands  around  itj 

But  first,  unto  those 

Whose  hands  did  compose     . 
The  glory  of  flowers  that  crown'd  it. 


Herrick. 


1.  Tulip,  Gesner,  Tulipa  Gemerina,  St.  Philip,  sup- 
posed to  have  been  the  first  of  Christ's  Apostles. 

Bachelor's  Button,  Lychnis  dioica,  St.  James  the  just, 
and  the  less.  Apostle.    Martyred  in  the  tumult  in  the  temple. 

2.  Charlock,  (a  Leek,)  Rhaphanus  raphanistrum,  or 
sinapis  arvenus,  St.  Athanasius,  Patriarch  of  Alexandria, 
A.  D.  373. 

3.  Narcissus,  poetic,  Narcissus  poeticus,  the  discovery 
of  the  cross,  A.  D.  326. 

4.  Gilly  flower,  stock,   Cheiranthus  incanus,  St.  Moni- 
cla,  mother  of  St.  Augustine. 

5.  Apple-tree,  Pyrus  mains,  Sts.  Angelus,  and  Pius  V. 
Pope,  A.  D.  1572. 

6.  Globe  flower,  bright  yellow,  Trollius  Europteus,  St. 
John  Damascen,  A.  D.  780. 

7.  Globe  flower  Asiatic,  bright  orange,  Trollius  Jlsiati- 
cus,  St.  John,  of  Beverly,  England. 

8.  Lily  of  the  Valley,  Convalaria  majalis,  St.  Selena. 

9.  Lily  of  the  Valley,  Convalaria  multiflora,  St.  Gre- 
gory, of  Nazianzen,  A.  D.  389  or  391. 

10.  Peony,  slender-leafed,  Pxonia  tenuifolia,  St.  Corn- 
gal,  Irish  Abbot,  A.  D.  601. 

11.  Asphodel,  Lancashire,  Jlsphodelus  luteus,  St.  Mam- 
mertus,  Archbishop  of  Vienna,  A.  D.  477- 

12.  Iris,  German,  Iris  Germanica,  St.  Germanus,  Patri- 
arch of  Constantinople,  A.  D.  733. 

13.  Comfrey,    common,    Symphytum    officinalis,   St. 
John,  the  silent,  Bishop,  A.  D.  558. 

14.  Peony,  common,  Pxonia  ojfficinalis,  and  Peony,  co- 
ralline, P.  corollina,  St.  Pontius,  A.  D.  258. 

15.  Poppy,  Welsh,  Papaver  cambricum,  St.  Dympna, 
7th  Century. 

16.  Star  of  Bethlehem,  great,  Ornithogalum  umbella- 
tum,  St.  John  Nepomucen,  A.  D.  1383. 

17.  Poppy,  early  red,  long  rough-headed  P.  Papaver  ar- 
gemone,  St.  Paschal,  Babylon,  A.  D.  1592. 

18.  Mouse  ear,  or  Hawk-weed,  Hieracium  pUosetta, 
St.  Eric,  King  of  Sweden,  1151. 

19.  Monk's  hoof,  Jlconitum  napellus,    St.  Dunstan, 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  A.  D.  988. 

20.  Horse-chesnut,  JEschylus  hippocastanum,  St.  Ber- 
nardine  of  Sienna,  A.  D.  1444. 

21.  Ragged  Robin,  Lychnis  Jlos  cuculi,  St.  Felix,  of 
Cantalicio,  1587. 

22.  Star  of  Bethlehem,  yellow,  Tragopogon  pratensis, 
St.  Yvo,  1303. 

23.  Lilac,  Syringa  vulgaris,  St.  Julia,  5th  Century. 

24.  Poppy,  monkey,  Papaver  orientals,    St.  Vincent, 
of  Lerins,  450. 

25.  Herb  Bennet,  common,  Gcum  urbanum,  St.  Urban, 
Pope,  A.  D.  223. 

26.  Rhododendron,  purple,   Rhododendron  ponticum, 
St.  Augustine,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  604. 


Azalea,  yellow,  Jlzalea  pontica,  St.  Philip  Neri,  A.  D. 
1595. 

27.  Butter-cup,  Ranunculus  acris,   St.   John,    Pope, 
A.  D.  526. 

Bachelor's  Button,  yellow,  Ranunculus  acris  plenus, 
St.  Bede,  735. 

28.  Iris,  lurid,  Iris  lurida,  St.  Germain,  Bishop  of  Paris, 
576. 

29.  Blue  Bottle,  Centaurea  montana,  St.  Cyril,  about 
275. 

30.  Spear-wort,  lesser,  Ranunculus  Jlammula,  St.  Fer- 
dinand III.  Confessor,  King  of  Castile  and  Leon,  A.  D.  1252. 

31.  Lily,  yellow  Turk's  cap,  Lilium  pomponium,  St. 
Petronilla,  century  1st. 

JUNE. 

1.  Rose,  yellow,  Rosa  lutea,  St.  Justin,  Martyr,  A.  D. 
167. 

2.  Pimpernel,  common  scarlet,  Jlnagallis  arvensis,  St.. 
Erasmus,  303. 

3.  Rose  de  meaux,  Rosa  provincialis,  St.  Cecilius, 
A.  D.  211. 

4.  Pink,   Indian,    Dianthus   chinensis,    St.   Quirinus, 
Bishop,  A.  D.  304. 

5.  Rose,  three-leafed  China,  Rosa  sinica,  St.  Boniface, 
First  Missionary  from  England  to  Friesland.     Afterwards 
Archbishop  of  Mentz,  and  Primate  of  Germany  and  Belgium, 
century  8th. 

6.  Pink,   common,   Dianthus  deltoides,   St.  Norbert, 
A.  D.  1134. 

7.  Centaury,  red,  Chironia  centaureum,  St.  Paul,  Bish- 
op of  Constantinople,  A.  D.  350. 

8.  Money-wort,  Herb  Two  pence,  or  creeping  Loose- 
strife, Lysimachia  numularia,  St.  Medard,    Bishop,    6th 
Century. 

9.  Barberry,  Pipperidge  bush  of  England,  Berberis  vul- 
garis, St.  Columba,  A.  D.  597. 

10.  Iris,  bright  yellow,  Iris  pseudo-acorus,  St.  Marga- 
ret, Queen  of  Scotland,  A.  D.  1093. 

11.  Daisy,   midsummer,  Chrysanthemum   leucanthe- 
mum,  St.  Barnabas,  Apostle,  century  1st. 

12.  Rose,  white  dog,  -Rosa  arvensis,  St.  John,  Hermit, 
A.  D.  1479. 

13.  Ranunculus,   garden,   Ranunculus  Asiaticus,  St. 
Anthony  of  Padua,  1231. 

14.  Basil,  sweet,   Ocimum  basilicum,  St.  Basil,  Arch- 
bishop, 379. 

15.  Sensitive  plant,  Mimosa  sensitiva,  St.  Vitus,  Mar- 
tyr, 4th  Century. 

16.  Rose,  Moss  province,  Rosa  muscosa,  St.  Julitta, 
Martyr,  304. 

17-  Monkey  flower,  yellow,  Mimulus  luteus,  St.  Ni- 
cander,  about    A.  D.  303. 

18.  Poppy,  horned,  Chelidonium  glaucium,  St.  Marina, 
Sth  Century. 

19.  La  Julienne  de  nuit,  Hesperis  tristis,  St.  Juliana 
Falconieri,  1340. 

20.  Poppy,  doubtful,   Papaver  dubium,  St.  Silverius, 
Pope,  A.  D.  538. 


21.  Bugloss,  Viper's,  Echium  vulgare,  St.  Aloysius, 
A.  D.  1591. 

22.  Canterbury  Bell,  Campanula  medium,  St.  Paulinus, 
Bishop  of  Nola,  A.  D.  431. 

23.  Ladies'  slipper,  Cypripedium  calceolus,  St.  Ethel- 
dreda,  679. 

24.  St.  John's  wort,  Hypericum  pulchrum,  the  nativity 
of  St.  John  the  Baptist. 

25.  Sweet  William,  Dianthus  barbatus,  St.  William, 
of  Monte  Vergine,  A.  D.  1142. 

26.  Sow-thistle,  Alpine  hairy  blue,   Sonchus  cxruleus, 
St.  Reingarda,  Widow,  1135. 

27.  St.  John's  wort,  perforated,  Hypericum  perforatum, 
St.  John,  of  Montier,  6th  Century. 

28.  Corn-flower,  blue,  Centaurea  cyanus,  St.  Irensus, 
Bishop  of  Lyons,  A.  D.  202. 

29.  Rattle,  yellow,  lUdnanthus  crista-galli,  St.  Peter, 
the  Apostle. 

30.  Cistus,  yellow,  Cistus  helianthemum,  St.  Paul,  the 
Apostle,  Martyr. 

JULY. 

1.  Agrimony,  Jigrimonia  Eupatoria,  St.  Aaron. 

2.  Lily,  white,  LUium  candidum,  the  Virgin  Mary. 

3.  Mallow,  common,  Malva  sylvestris,  St.  Phocas,  a 
Gardener,  A.  D.  303. 

4.  Lily,  tawny  Day,  of  China,  Hemerocallis  fulva,  St. 
Ulric,  Bishop  of  Augsburg. 

5.  Rose,  double  yellow,  Rosa  sulphurea,  St.  Edana,  of 
Elphim  and  Tuam. 

6.  Hawk-weed,  or  purple-eyed  succory,  Crepis  barbata, 
St.  Julian,  Anchorite,  4th  Century. 

7.  Nasturtium,  Tropxolum  majus,   St.  Felix,  Bishop 
of  Nantes,  584. 

8.  Primrose,  evening,  JEnothera  biennis,  St.  Elizabeth, 
Queen  of  Portugal,  A.  D.  1336. 

9.  Sow-thistle,  Tall  marsh,  Sonchus  palust ris,  St.  Ever- 
ildis. 

10.  Snapdragon,    speckled,   Antirrhinum  triphyllum, 
Sts.  Rufuia  and  Secunda,  257- 

11.  Lupine,  yellow,  Lupinus  Jlsevus,  St.  James,  Bishop 
of  Nisibis,  350. 

12.  Snapdragon,  great,  Antirrhinum  purpureum,  St. 
John  Gualbert,  Abbot,  1073. 

13.  Lupine,  blue,    Lupinus  hirsutus,   St.  Eugenius, 
Bishop,  A.  D.  505. 

14.  Lupine,  red,  Lupinus  perennis,  St.  Bonaventure, 
Cardinal,  Bishop,  A.  D.  1274. 

15.  Marigold,  small  cape,  purple  and  white,  Calendula 
pluvialis,  St.  Swithin,  Bishop,  A.  D.  862. 

"  If  it  rains  on  St.  Swithin's  Day,  there  will  be  rain  the 
next  forty  days  afterwards." 

In  this  month  is  St.  Swithin's  day, 
On  which,  if  it  rain,  they  say 
Full  forty  days  after  it  will 
Or  more,  or  less,  some  rain  distill. 

Poor  Robin's  •Almanac  for  the  year  1697. 

St.  Swithin's  day,  if  thou  dost  rain, 
For  forty  days  it  will  remain: 


St.  Swithin's  day,  if  thou  be  fair, 
For  forty  days  'twill  rain  na  mair. 


Hone's  E.  D.  B. 


16.  Convolvulus,  Convolvulus  purpureus,  St.  Eusta- 
thius,  Patriarch  of  Antioch,  A.  D.  338. 

17.  Pea,  sweet,  Lathyrus  odoratus,  St.  Marcellina, 
A.  D.  397. 

18.  Marigold,  autumn,    Chrysanthemum  coronarium, 
St.  Bruno,  Bishop  of  Segni,  A.  D.  1125. 

19.  Hawk-weed,  golden,  Hieracium  auranticum,  St. 
Vincent,  of  Paul,  1660. 

The  corolla  of  this  flower,  a  rich  orange  hue,  contrasted 
with  the  black  hairy  calyx,  which  gave  rise  to  the  popular 
name  of  Grim  the  cottier. 

20.  Dragon's  head,  Virginian,  Dracocephalus  Virginia- 
num,  St.  Margaret,  of  Antioch. 

21.  Lily,  Philadelphian,   LUium  Philadelphicum,  St. 
Praxedes. 

22.  Lily,  African,  Jlgapanthus  umbellatus,  St.  Mary 
Magdalen. 

23.  Musk  flower,  Scabious  atro  purpurea,  St.  Apolli- 
naris,  Bishop  of  Ravena. 

24.  Lupine  tree,  Lupinus  arboreus,  St.  Lupus,  Bishop, 
A.  D.  478. 

25.  Herb  Christopher,  pure  white,  Acts&a  spicata,  St. 
Christopher. 

26.  Chamomile,  field,  or  corn  Fever-few,  Matricaria 
chamomilla,  St.  Ann,  Mother  of  the  Virgin  Mary. 

27.  Loose  strife,  purple  Lythrum,  Lythrum  salicaria, 
St.  Pantaleon,  A.  D.  303. 

28.  Groundsel,  mountain,  Senecio  montanus,  St.  Inno- 
cent I.  Pope,  417- 

29.  Chironia,  red,  Chironia  centaurium,  St.  Martha,  V. 

30.  Mullein,  white,  Verbascum  lychnitis,  St.  Julitta, 
A.  D.  303. 

31.  Mullein,  yellow,  primrose-leafed,  Verbascum  virga- 
tum,  St.  Ignatius,  of  Loyola,  founder  of  the  Jesuits,  A.  D. 
1556. 

AUGUST. 

The  Romish  church,  professing  to  possess  one  of  St. 
Peter's  chains,  wherewith  he  was  bound,  and  from  which  the 
Angel  delivered  him,  indulges  its  votaries  with  a  festival  in  its 
honour,  on  the  first  day  of  this  month,  or  the  Feast  of  St. 
Peter's  chains. 

1.  Stramony,  or  Thorn  Apple,  Datura  stramonium,  St. 
Peter  ad  Vincula. 

2.  Lily,  tiger,  IMium  tigrum,  St.  Alfrida,  A.  D.  834. 

3.  Hollyhock,  Jllthea  rosea,  the  discovery  of  St.  Ste- 
phen's relics,  415. 

4.  Blue  Bells,  Campanula  rotundifolia,  St.  Dominic, 
Confessor,  Founder  of  the  Friar  Preachers,  A.  D.  1221. 

5.  Lily,  Egyptian,  water,  Nelumbo  nilotica,  St.  Mary 
ad  Nives. 

6.  Saffron,  meadow,  Colchicum  autumnalis,  the  trans- 
figuration of  our  Lord,  on  Mount  Tabor. 

7.  Amaranth,  common,  Jlmaranthus  hypochondriacus, 
St.  Cajetan,  1547- 


8.  Love  lies-a-bleeding,  Amaranthus  procumbens,  St. 
Hormisdas. 

9.  Rag-wort,  yellow  Jacobean,  Senecio  jacobea,  St.  Ro- 
manus. 

10.  Balsam,  Impatiens  balsamea,  St.  Lawrence,  Roman 
Martyr,  258. 

11.  China  Aster,  Aster  Chinensis,  St.  Susanna,  3rd  Cent. 

12.  Sow-Thistle,    great    corn,     Sonchus  avensis,   St. 
Clare,  Abbess,  A.  D.  1253. 

13.  Groundsel,  marsh,  Great  Fen  Rag-wort,  or  Bird's 
Tongue,  Senecio  paludosus,  St.  Radigundes. 

14.  Zinnia,   elegant,    Zinnia    elegans,    St.    Eusebius, 
Priest,  3rd  Century. 

15.  Virgin's  Bower,  white,  Clematis  vitalba,  the  As- 
sumption of  the  B.  V.  Mary,  or  the  miraculous  ascent  of  her 
body  into  heaven. 

16.  Lily,  belladonna,  Amaryllis  belladonna,  St.  Hya- 
cinth, A.  D.  1257- 

17.  Snapdragon,  Toad-flax,  Antirrhinum  linaria,   St. 
Manns,  A.  D.  275. 

18.  Marigold,  African,  Tagetes  erecta,  St.  Helen,  Em- 
press, A.  D.  382. 

19.  Timothy,  branched-cat's  tail  grass,  Phleum  panni- 
culatum,  or  Ph.  asperum,  St.  Timothy,  A.  D.  304. 

20.  Dandelion,  Leontodon  serotinus,  St.  Bernard,  Ab- 
bot, A.  D.  1153. 

21.  Marigold,  French,  Tagetus  patula,  St.  Jane  Fran- 
cis, de  Chantal,  A.  D.  1641. 

22.  Timothy,   common  cat's  tail  grass,   Phleum  pra- 
tense,  St.  Timothy,  A.  D.  311. 

23.  Tansy,  common,   Tanacetum  vulgare,  St.  Philip 
Beniti,  A.  D.  1285. 

24.  Sun-flower,  tall,  Helianthus  annuus,  St.  Bartholo- 
mew, Apostle. 

25.  Sun-flower,  perennial,  Helianthus  multiflorus,  St. 
Louis,  King  of  France,  A.  D.  1270. 

26.  Amaryllis,  banded,  Amaryllis  vittata,  St.  Zephyri- 
nus,  Pope,  A.  D.  219. 

27.  Hawk's-weed  hedge,  Hieracium  umbellatum,   St. 
Caesarius,  Archbishop  of  Aries,  A.  D.  542. 

28.  Golden-rod,  Solidago,  virga  aurea,  St.  Augustine, 
Bishop,  and  Doctor  of  the  Church,  A.  D.  430. 

29.  Hollyhock,  yellow,  Jllthea  flava,  St.  Sabina,  King, 
about  697. 

30.  Lily,  Guernsey,  Amaryllis  sarniensis,  St.  Rose,  of 
Lima,  V.  1617. 

31.  Pheasant's  eye,  Adonis  autumnalis,  St.  Raymund 
Nonnatus,  1240. 

SEPTEMBER. 

1.  Orpine,  or  Live-long,  great,  Sedum  telephium,  St. 
Giles,  Patron  of  Beggars  and    Cripples.    Born   at  Athens. 
Made   Abbot  of  the  Abbey  at  Nismes,  in   France.     Died 
A.  D.  750. 

2.  Golden-rod,  Solidago,  St.  Margaret,  B.,    13th  Cent. 

3.  Flea-bane,  common  yellow,  Inula  dysenterica,  St 
Simeon  Stylitcs,  the  younger,  A.  D.  592. 

4.  Soap-wort,  pale  pink,  Saponaria  officinalis,  St.  Ro- 
salia, A.  D.  1160. 


5.  Mushroom,  or  champignon,  Agaricus  campestris,  St 
Laurence  Justinian,  First  Patriarch  of  Venice,  A.  D.  1455. 

6.  Dandelion,  Leontodon  autumnalis,  St.  Pambo,   of 
Nitria,  A.  D.  385. 

7.  Star-wort,  golden,  Aster  solidaginoides,  St.  Cloud, 
A.  D.  560. 

8.  Star-wort,  Italian,  blue,  Aster  amellus,  St.  Adrian, 
A.  D.  306. 

On  this  day  (September  8th)  The  Nativity  of  the  B.  V 
Mary  is  celebrated. 

9.  Golden-rod,   Canadian,   Solidago    Canadensis,    St 
Omer,  A.  D.  607. 

10.  Crocus,  autumnal,  Crocus  autumnalis,  St.  Pulche- 
ria,  Empress,  A.  D.  453. 

11.  Meadow  saffron,  variegated,  Colchicum  variegatum, 
St.  Hyacinthus,  A.  D.  257. 

12.  Passion-flower,   Passiflora  peltata,   St.  Eanswide, 
Abbess,  7th  Century. 

13.  Crocus,  Crocus  sativus,  St.  Eulogius,  Patriarch  of 
Alexandria,  608. 

14.  Passion-flower,  Passiflora  cserulea,  the  exaltation 
of  the  Holy  Cross,  629. 

15.  Saffron,  Byzantine,   Colchicum  Byzanticum,    St. 
Nicetas,  4th  Century. 

16.  Star-wort,  sea,  blue,  Aster  tripolium,  St.  Editha, 
A.  D.  984. 

17-  Mallow,  narrow-leaved,   Malva  angustiflora,  St. 
Lambert,  Bishop,  A.  D.  709. 

18.  Star-wort,  pendulous,  Aster  pendulus,  St.  Thomas, 
Archbishop  of  Valentia,  1555. 

19.  Scabious,  Devil's  bit,   Scabiosa  succisa,  St.  Lucy, 
A.  D.  1090. 

20.  Meadow  saffron,  common,  Colchicum  autumnali, 
St.  Eustachius. 

21.  Passion-flower,   fringed-leaved,  variegated,    Passi- 
flora  ciliata,  St.  Mathew,  Apostle  and  Evangelist. 

22.  Boletus,  tree,  Boletus  arboreus,  St.    Maurice,  4th 
Century. 

23.  Star-wort,  white,  bushy,  Aster  dumosus,  St.  Thecla, 
1st  Century. 

24.  Fungus,  Agaricus  Jlmetarius,  St.  Gerard,  Bishop  of 
Chonad,  1046. 

25.  Boletus,  great,  order  Fungi,  Boletus  bovinus,  St. 
Ceolfrid,  Abbot,  716. 

26.  Golden-rod,  great,   Solidago  gigantea,  St.  Justina, 
A.  D.  304. 

27.  Star-wort,   white   and  small-leaved,  N.  American, 
Aster  multiflorus,  St.  Delphina,  A.  D.  1323. 

28.  Golden-rod,  evergreen,  Solidago  sempervirens,  St. 
Eustochium,  Vicar,  A.  D.  419. 

29.  Michaelmas  Daisy,  Aster  tradescanti,  St.  Michael, 
and  all  Angels.    The  dedication  of  St.  Michael's  church. 

30.  Amaryllis,  golden,  Amaryllis  aurea,  St.  Jerome, 
Priest,  Doctor  of  the  church,  A.  D.  420. 

OCTOBER. 

1.  Amaryllis,  lowly,  Amaryllis  humilis,  St.  Remigius, 
Bishop  of  Rheims,  A.  D.  533. 


With  bays,  and  rosemary, 

And  laurel  complete; 
And  every  one  now 

Is  a  king  in  conceit. 

From  "  Poor  Robin's  Almanac,  for  1695." 

26.  Heath,  purple,  Erica  purpurea,  St.  Stephen,  the 
first  Martyr. 

27.  Heath,  flame,  Erica  flammea,  St.  John,  the  Apostle 
and  Evangelist. 

28.  Heath,  bloody-flowered,  Erica  cruenta,  the  Holy 
Innocents  who  suffered  from  Herod's  cruelty. 

29.  Heath,  Erica  genistopha,  St.  Thomas,  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  1170. 

30.  Ponthieva,  glandular,  Ponthieva  glandvlosa,   St. 
Anysia,  A.  D.  304. 


There  is  no  flower  appropriated  to  the  31st  December. 

"  If  New  Year's  eve  night-winds  blow  South, 

It  betokens  warmth  and  growth; 

If  West,  much  milk,  and  fish  in  the  sea; 

If  North,  much  cold,  and  storms  there  will  be; 

If  East,  the  trees  will  bear  much  fruit; 

If  North-east,  flee  it  man  and  brute." 

And  the  next  to  this  is  New-Year's  day, 

Whereon  to  every  frende, 
They  costly  presents  in  do  bring, 

And  New-Year's  gifts  do  sende. 
These  gifts  the  husband  gives  his  wife, 

And  father  eke  the  childe, 
And  master  on  his  men  bestowes 

The  like,  with  favour  milde. 

From  the  Latin  of  Thos.  Naogeorgus, 

toritten  in  1553.     Translated  by  Barnarbe  Googe. 


DEFINITION  OF  THE  SPECIFIC  NAMES  OF  THE  FLOWERS  USED  IN  FLORA'S  DICTIONARY. 


dtries,  L.  Ainsworth  defines  it— 1.  A  Fir  tree— 2.  A  ship— 
3.  A  plant.  The  Pinus  abies  being  much  used  in  the 
construction  of  ships,  etc. 

»/2crts,  L.     Sharp,  sour. 

Jllba,  Jllbus,  L.    White,  hoary,  pale,  wan. 

Jlnnuus,  L.    Annual,  yearly;  living  but  one  year 

Jlrgentifolium,  L.     Silver-leaved. 

•Atro-purpurea,  of  a  dark  purple  colour. 

Jlutumnale,  L.     Of  Autumn. 

Jlurantium,  L.     Orange  coloured. 

Jlzedarach,  from  Jlzed,  an  Arabian  word,  signifying  large. 

Babylonica,  of  Babylon. 

Balsamea,  L.    Balmy. 

Barbatus,  L.    Bearded. 

Bella  donna.  Because  the  ladies  make  a  cosmetic  of  the 
juice,  or  distilled  water.  Some  derive  the  name  from 
the  intoxicating  quality  of  the  plant — Jltropa  bella 
donna. 

Bicolor,  L.     Of  two  colours,  parti-coloured. 

Campanula,  see  note  on  Venus'  Looking  glass. 

Canadensis,  L.     Of  Canada. 

Candldum,  L.     See  note  on  white  Lily. 

Capitatum,  L.    From  caput,  a  head. 

Cxrulea,  L.    Azure,  blue. 

Csesius,  L.     Grey  coloured. 

Caryophyllus,  L.    For  a  clove — see  note  on  Pink. 

Caudatus,  L.    Tailed,  that  hath  a  tail. 

Centifolia,  L.    Hundred-leaved. 

Chalcedonica,  see  note  on  scarlet  Lychnis. 

Cheiranthus,  see  note  on  Wall  Flower. 

Chinensis,  L.    Of  China. 

Coronarius,  L.    That  belongs  to,  or  serves  to  make  garlands. 

Cotinus,  see  note  on  Sumach. 

Cristata,  L.     Crested,  tufted. 

Crystallinum,  L.    A  crystal  glass;  like  it  in  clearness. 

Cuculi,  L.     From  cuculio,  a  kind  of  hood,  to  keep  off  rain. 

Damascena,  probably  from  the  name  of  the  country  of  Da- 
mascene, around  Damascus. 

Dioica,  see  note  on  Bachelor's  Button. 

Dulcis,  L.     Sweet. 

Florida,  Floridus,  L.    Flowery,  adorned  with  flowers. 

Formosissima,  L.    Beautiful,  handsome. 

Glauca,  glaucus,  L.  Grey  or  blue,  sea-green,  pale  bluish- 
green. 

Globosa,  L.     Globular. 

Graveolens,  L.    Of  a  bad  odour;  that  hath  a  strong  smell. 

Hispida,  L.     Hairy,  bristly. 

Hortensis,  L.    Pertaining  to,  or  growing  in  gardens. 

Incanus,  see  note  on  Gilly  Flower. 

Indica,  Jndicum,  L.     Of  India. 

Inermis,  L.    Thornless;  unarmed,  without  arms. 

Inodorus,  L.    Without  scent. 

Inquinans,  L.     Defiling,  blemishing 

Laburnum,  see  note. 

Latifolia,  L.    Broad-leaved. 


Lnitea,  L.    Pale  yellow,  like  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

JWaculatum,  L.    Spotted. 

Jllajor,  L.     Greater,  bigger. 

JUatronalis,  L.    Modest,  pertaining  to  Matrons. 

Medium,  L.     Middle  sized,  moderate  sized. 

Millefolium,  L.    A  thousand-leaved. 

Minor,  L.    Less,  smaller. 

Multijlora,  L.    Many-leaved. 

Muschato,  L.    Musky. 

Muscosa,  L.    Mossy,  or  full  of  moss. 

Nivalis,  L.     Snowy. 

JVtger,  nigrum,  L.     Black. 

NobUis,  L.    Known,  or  well  known. 

Odorata,  Odoratissimum,  L.    Sweet  scented. 

Offlcinale,  officinalis,  L.    Kept  for  sale  as  medicinal. 

Opulus,  L.    Ainsworth  defines  it  "  A  tree  which  the  French 

call  opier — some  a  Witch-hazel." 
Paroifolia,  small-leaved. 

Peltatum,  L.    Having  the  shape  of  a  target,  or  shield. 
Persica,  persicus,  of,  or  belonging  to  Persia.    A  Peach  tree. 
Pomifragrans,  L.    Apple-scented. 

Pratense,  L.    From  pratensis,  of,  or  belonging  to  a  meadow. 
Pseudo,  L.     Counterfeit,  false. 
Pumila,  L.     A  Dwarf. 

Punica,  L.    Scarlet  colour,  the  Tyrian  or  Carthaginian  dye. 
Quercifolium,  L.    Oak-leaved. 
Quotidiana,  L.     Daily,  every  day. 
Rigida,  L.     Rigid,  hard. 
Rosea,  L.    Like  a  rose. 
Rosxfolius,  L.    Rose-leaved. 
Rubeus,  L.     Red,  ruddy. 
Rubiginosa,  see  note  on  Eglantine. 
Rubor-virginea,  L.    Rubor,  red ;  Virginia,  Virgin  like. 
Rubrifolia,  L.     Of  a  red  colour. 
Sempcrvirens,  L.     Always  flourishing,  always  green. 
Somniferurn,  L.     Causing  sleep. 
Speculum,  see  note  on  Venus'  Looking  glass. 
Stramonium,  L.     Probably  from  stramcn,  a  spreading 
Suaveolens,  L.     Sweet  scented. 
Syriacus,  L.     Syrian. 
Taraxacum,  see  note  on  Dandelion. 
Tinctoria,  L.     Of  or  belonging  to  Dyers. 
Tradescanti,  see  note  on  American  Star-wort. 
Tricolor,  Fr.    Three  coloured. 
Trionum,  see  note  on  Hibiscus. 
Tuberosa,  see  note  on  Tuberose. 

Tulipifcra,  L.    Tulip  bearing,  bearing  flowers  of  a  tulip  form. 
Unica,  L.     Unique,  singular,  notable,  excellent. 
Variegatva,  L.     Variegated. 

Vernalis,  L.    From  Vernus,  of,  or  belonging  to  the  spring. 
Veris,  L.    Real,  true. 
Versicolor,  L.     Of  sundry  colours. 
Virginica,  L.     Of  Virginia. 
Vinifera,  L.    Vine  bearing. 
Vulgaris,  L.    Ordinary,  common,  much  used. 


Absence, 

Activity, 

Affection  beyond  the  grave, 

A  heart  that  is  ignorant  of) 
love, <[ 

Ambassador  of  Love, .     .     . 

Ambition, 

Ambition,  Female,      .     .     . 

Amability,     ...... 

Am  I  forgotten?      .     .     .     . 

An  appointed  meeting,    .     . 

An  expected  meeting,      .    , 

Anger,  a  frown, .     .     .     .     , 

Anxious  and  trembling,   .     . 

Aspiring,  ....... 

Avarice, 

Aversion, 

Bashful  shame,  .     .     .    .    . 

Beauty, 

Beauty  unknown  to  the  pos- 
sessor,     

Benevolence,     .    ,    .    .    . 

Beware! 

To  bind, 

Bonds  of  affection,      .     .     . 

A  Boaster, 

Bravery,    .  .     .     .     . 

Busy  Body, 

Call  me  not  Beautiful,     .     . 

Calumny,  Scandal,     .     .     . 

Capricious  Beauty,     .     .     . 

Charity, 

Charming, 

Cheerfulness, 

Cheerfulness  in  old  Age, .     . 

ChivaJry, 

Compassion, ...... 

Concealed  Love,   .... 

Confession,    .-..,,, 

Confidence,  ...... 

Consolation, ...... 

Constancy,    ...... 

Consumed  by  Love,   .     .     . 

Content, 

Coquetry, 

Counterfeit, 

Cruelty, 

To  Cure, 

Cure  for  the  Heart-ache, 
Deceitful  charms,  .... 
Declaration  of  Love, .    .    . 
Delay, ........ 

Delicacy, 

Delicate  Beauty,    .... 
Departure,    ...... 

Despair, 

Devotion, 

Disappointment,     .... 
Disappointed  Expectation,  . 

Discretion, 

Disdain, 

Dissension, 


Zinnia. 
Thyme. 
Locust. 

Rose  bud,  white. 

Rose,  cabbage. 
Hollyhock. 
Hollyhock,  white. 
Jasmine,  white. 
Holly. 

Everlasting  pea. 
Geranium,  nutmeg. 
PoEony. 

Columbine,  red. 
Pink,  mountain. 
Auricula. 
Pink,J[ndian. 
Rose,  deep  red. 
Rose,  red,  full  blown. 

i  Daisy. 

Calycanthus. 

Oleander. 

Snow  Ball. 

Gilly  Flower. 

Hydranger. 

Oak  Leaf. 

Quamoclit. 

Rose,  unique. 

Hellebore. 

Lady's  Slipper 

Grape,  wild. 

Rose,  Musk. 

Crocus. 

American  Starwort, 

Daffodil. 

Elder. 

Acacia,  yellow. 

Rosebud,  Moss. 

Polyanthos. 

Poppy,  red. 

Box. 

Althaea. 

Houstonia. 

Dandelion. 

Mock  Orange. 

Marigold. 

Yarrow. 

Pleurisy  root. 

Thorn  Apple. 

Tulip,  red. 

Fever  Root. 

Lily  of  the  Valley, 

Hibiscus. 

Pea  Sweet 

Cypress. 

Heliotrope. 

Syringa  Carolina. 

Geranium,  fish. 

Lemon  blossom. 

Rue. 

Pride  of  China. 


Distinction, Cardinal's  flower 

Distrust, Lavender. 

Domestic  virtues,  ....  Sage. 

Egotism,  self-love,      .     .     .  Narcissus. 

Elegance, Acacia,  white. 

Eloquence,   ......  Lagerstramia. 

Encouragement,     ....  Virga  aurca;  or,  Golden  Rod. 

Envy, Geranium,  Crane's  bill. 

Esteem  and  Love,      .    .    .  Strawberry  Tree, 

I  esteem,  but  do  not  love  you,  Spider  wort. 

Estranged  love,      ....  Lotos  flower. 

Expectation,.     .         ...  Anemone. 

Falsehood, Lily,  yellow. 

Farewell! Pine,  spruce. 

Female  Fidelity,    ....  Speedwell. 

Feminine  Modesty,    .    .     .  Calla.  aHhiopica. 

Fickleness, Larkspur,  pink  col. 

Fidelity  in  misfortune,    .     .  Wall  Flower. 

Filial  love, Virgin's  Bower. 

Finesse, Sweet  William. 

Flattery, Venus'  Looking  Glass. 

Flee  away, Pennyroyal. 

Foppery,  Affectation, .     .    .  Cock's  Comb. 

For  ever  thine, Dahlia. 

Forget  me  not, J  Heart£  Ease,  yellow  and  pui- 

Forsaken, Weeping  Willow. 

Fraternal  love, Woodbine. 

Freshness, Rose,  damask. 

Friendship, Acacia,  rose. 

Generous  and  devoted  Love,  Honeysuckle,  wild. 

Good  wishes, Basil,  Sweet. 

Grace, Rose,  Multiflora. 

Grace  and  Elegance, .     .     .  Jasmine,  Yellow. 

Gratitude, Canterbury  Bell. 

Happy  Love, Rose,  Bridal. 

Hope, Almond  flower. 

Hope, Hawthorn. 

Hopeless  Love,      ....  Tulip,  yellow. 

Hopeless,  not  Heartless,     .  Love  lies-a-bleeding. 

Humility, Broom. 

I  am  dazzled  by  your  charms,  Ranunculus. 
I  am  perfectly  indifferent  to  )  -p. 

you,  ......       $  Dogwood. 

I  am  worthy  of  you, 
I  am  your  Captive, 
I  change  but  in  dying, 


Rose,  white. 
Peach  blossom. 
Bay  leaf. 
Belvidere. 
Jonquil. 

•  Catch  Fly,  white. 


I  declare  against  you, .  .  . 
I  desire  a  return  of  affection, 
I  fall  into  the  Trap  laid  for ' 

me, I 

If  you  do  love  me,  you  will  )  „        ....  . ,     ,  „,    , 

find  me  out,    /.     .    .  j  Rose,  Main's  Blush. 

I  have  a  message  for  you,    .  Iris. 

I  have  lost  all! Honey  flower,  Mourning  Bride 

I  live  for  thee,  .....  Cedar. 

I  love, Chrysanthemum,  rose  colour. 

Imagination, ......  Lupine. 

Immortality, Amaranth. 

Impatience, Balsam,  yellow. 

Impatient  resolves,     .     .     .  Balsam,  red. 

Inconstancy, Primrose,  Evening. 


Industry,  

Clover,  red. 

Sensitiveness,    Mimosa. 

Ingenuousness,  

Pink,  white. 

Serenade,      Dew  Plant. 

Ingratitude,  

Rose,  without  a  Thorn. 

Simplicity,     Sweet  Briar. 

Innocence,    

Daisy,  white. 

Sincerity,  Honesty,  or  Satin  Flower. 

I  partake  your  sentiments,  . 

China  Aster,  double. 

Slander,    Nettle. 

I  will  think  of  it,    .     .     .     . 

China  Aster,  single. 

Slighted  love,    .     .  '  .     .     •     Chrysanthemum,  yellow. 

I  with   the   morning's   love  } 

Solitude,  Lichen. 

have  oft  made  sport,     .  jf 

Sorrowful  Remembrances,  .    Adonis. 

I  would  not  answer  hastily, 

Honeysuckle,  Monthly. 

Speak  low,  if  you  speak  love,  Honey  Flower. 

I  wound  to  heal,     .... 

Eglantine. 

Splendid  Beauty,    ....    Amaryllis. 

Jealousy,  

Hyacinth. 

Splendour,     Sumach,  Venice. 

Lady,  deign  to  smile,  .     .    . 

Geranium,  Oak. 

Submission,  Grass. 

Le  plus  loin,  Le  plus  cher,  . 

Tuberose. 

Sunbeam'd  Eyes,   ....     Scarlet  Lychnis. 

Lightness,     

Larkspur. 

Superior  Merit,  Rose,  Moss. 

Live  for  me,  

Arbor  Vitae. 

Superstition,      St.  John's  wort. 

Lively  and  pure  affection,    . 

Pink,  red. 

Susceptibility,    Passion  Flower. 

Violet,  blue. 

Sympathy,     Balm. 

Love  at  first  sight,  .... 

Coreopsis,  Arkansa. 

That  smile  I  would  aspire  )  Roge  Daily 

Love  in  idleness,    .... 

Heart's  Ease,  wild. 

Myrtle. 

The   ambition  in   my   '°vei  Fuchsia 

Love  returned,  

Ambrosia. 

thus  plagues  itself,  .     .  ) 

Majesty,  Power,     .... 

Crown  Imperial. 

The  colour  of  my  fate,    .     .     Honeysuckle,  coral. 

Matrimony,  
Mature  and  finished  elegance, 

Ivy. 
Pomegranate  Flower. 

The  decrease  of  love  on  bet-  >  R            ]low 
ter  acquaintance,      .     .  > 

Mildness,  

Privet. 

The  first  emotions  of  love,  .     Lilac,  purple. 

Misanthropy,     

Thistle. 

The  Heart's  Mystery,     .     .    Polyanthos,  crimson  heart. 

Modesty,  

Violet,  white. 

The  reward  of  Merit,  .     .     .     Bay  Wreath. 

Music,  

Oat. 

Thou  art  all  that  is  lovely,  .    Rose,  Austrian. 

My  Bane,  My  Antidote,  .    . 

Poppy,  white. 

Time,  Fir,  Balm  of  Gilead. 

My  best  days  are  past,     .    . 

Meadow  Saffron. 

Time  and  Philosophy,     .    .    Pine,  Pitch. 

Never  ceasing  Remembrance, 

Everlasting. 

Timidity,  Marvel  of  Peru. 

Only  deserve  my  love,     .    . 

Rose  Campion. 

A  Token,      Laurustinus. 

Patience,  

Ox  Eye. 

Transient  Impressions,   .     .    Rose,  white  and  withered. 

Peace,  

Olive. 

Transport,  Ecstacy,   .     .    .     Cape  Jasmine. 

Pensive  Beauty,     .... 

Laburnum. 

Treacherv  Laurel. 

Perplexity,     

Love  in-a-mist. 

Truth,  Chrysanthemum,  white. 

Perseverance,    

Magnolia. 

Unanimity,    Phlox. 

Pity,     

Camellia  Japonica. 

Uncertainty,  Convolvulus. 

Pity,     

Pine,  black. 

Unchangeable,  Amaranth,  Globe. 

Pleasures  of  Memory,     .     . 

Periwinkle,  blue. 

Unconscious  Beauty,  .    .    .    Rose,  Burgundy. 

Pleasing  Reminiscences, 

Periwinkle,  white. 

Unfortunate  attachment,     .     Scabious.  The  Mourning  Bride 

Preference,   

Geranium,  rose. 

Unpatronized  Merit,  .     .    .    Primrose. 

Present  preference,     .    .    . 

Geranium,  apple. 

Useful  knowledge,      .    .     .    Parsley. 

Presumption,     

Snap  Dragon. 

Variety,     Rose,  Mundi. 

Pride,  

Rose,  hundred  leaved. 

War,    Rose,  York,  and  Lancaster. 

Pride,  Haughtiness,     .    .    . 

Sun-flower,  tall. 

Warlike  Trophy,   ....    Nasturtium. 

Prosperity,    

Wheat. 

Winning  Grace,     ....     Cowslip. 

Purity  and  sweetness,  .    .    . 

Lily,  white. 

A  Wish,   Fox  Glove. 

Recall,     

Geranium,  silver-leaved. 

Wit,     Ragged  Robin. 

Recantation,      

Lotos  leaf. 

Wit,  ill  timed,   Sorrel. 

Recluse,   

Moss. 

Woman's  Love,     ....    Pink.     The  Carnation. 

Reconciliation,  
Refinement,  

Star  of  Bethlehem. 
Snow  drop. 

You  are  the  Queen  of  Co-  >  Que6n,g  rQcket 
quettes,  > 

Refusal,    

Pink,  variegated. 

You  are  young  and  beautiful,    Rose-bud,  red. 

Rejected  addresses,    .    .     . 

Ice  Plant 

You  occupy  my  thoughts,    .    Heart's  Ease,  purple. 

Religious  Superstition,    .    . 

Aloe. 

Your  devout  adorer,   .     .    .     Sun-flower,  Dwarf. 

Rosemary. 

Your  hand  for  the  next  quad-  )  Geranium  Ivy> 

Resolved  to  win,    .... 

Columbine,  purple. 

rille?      > 

Riches,     

Bird's-foot  Trefoil. 
Butter-cup. 

Your  purity  equals  your  love-  1  Q           blogsom> 
liness,     ) 

Rural  Happiness,  .    .    . 

Rocket. 
Tulip  tree. 

Your  qualities  surpass  your>Mi          tte. 
loveliness,  i 

Night  shade. 

Youth,      Lilac,  white. 

Sensibility,  

Verbena. 

Youthful  love,  Catch  fly,  red. 

2.  Soap-wort,  Saponaria  officindlis,  Feast  of  the  holy 
guardian  Angels. 

3.  Helenium,  downy,  Helenium  pubescens,  St.  Diony- 
sius,  the  Areopagite,  A.  D.  51. 

4.  Southern-wood,    dwarf,   Artemisia  abrotanwn,  St.' 
Francis,  of  Assisium,  A.  D.  1226. 

5.  Chamomile,  star-like,  a  Fungus,  Boltonia  asteroides, 
St.  Placidus,  A.  D.  546. 

6.  Feverfew,   creeping-rooted,  Pyrethrum  serotinum, 
St.  Bruno,  Founder  of  the  Carthusian  Monks,  A.  D.  1101. 

I.  Chrysanthemum,  Indian,  Chrysanthemum  Indicum, 
St.  Mark,  Pope,  A.  D.  336. 

8.  Maudlin,   sweet,    Jlchillea  ageratum,   St.  Bridget, 
A.  D.  1373. 

9.  Mushroom,  milky,  Jlgaricus  lactifluus  acris,  or,  Ji. 
Listcri,  St.  Denys,  Patron  saint  of  France. 

10.  Aletris,  cape  waved-leaved,   Jlletris  viridifolia,  St. 
Francis  Borgia,  A.  D.  1572. 

II.  Holly,   common,  Ilex  aquifolium,  St.  Ethelburge, 
A.  D.  664. 

12.  Flea-bane,   wavy,    Inula  undulata,    St.   Wilfred, 
Bishop  of  York,  A.  D.  709. 

13.  Helenium,  yellow,  smooth,  Helenium  autumnale, 
St.  Edward,  King,  and  Confessor,  A.  D.  1066. 

14.  Flea-bane,  Indian,  Inula  Indica,  St.  Calixtus,  Pope, 
A.  D.  222. 

15.  Sultan,  sweet,  purple,    Centaurea  moschata,   St. 
Teresa,  Virgin,  1582. 

16.  Yarrow,  Jlchillea  millefolium,    St.  Gall,  Abbot, 
A.  D.  646. 

17.  Sun-flower,  Dwarf,  Helianthus  indicus,  St.  Anstru- 
dis,  A.  D.  688. 

18.  Mushroom,  Jlgaricus  jloccosus,  St.  Luke,  the  Evan- 
gelist, A.  D.  63. 

19.  Tick-seed,   perennial,   Coreopsis  procera,  St.  Fri- 
des wide,  Patroness  of  Oxford,  8th  Century. 

20.  Sultan,  yellow,  sweet,  Centaurea  suaveolens,  St. 
Artemius,  362. 

21.  Silphium,   hairy-stalked,    Silphium   asteriscus,   St. 
Ursula,  5th  Century. 

22.  Silphium,  rough,  three-leaved,  Silphium  trifoliatum, 
St.  Nunilo,  840. 

23.  Star-wort,  slender-stalked,  Jlster  junceus,  St.  Theo- 
doret,  A.  U.  362. 

24.  Star-wort,  Carolina,  Jlster  carolinus  Jlexuosus,  St. 
Proclus,  Archbishop  of  Constantinople,  A.  D.  447. 

25.  Star-wort,  flea-bane,  Jlster  Conizoidcs,  St.  Crispin, 
A.  D.  237. 

Star-wort,  meagre,  Jlster  miser,  St.  Crispinian,  287- 

These  were  both  Brothers,  and  Martyrs,  Shoemakers, 
and  Patrons  of  that  art. 

26.  Golden-rod,  late-flowered,  Solidago  petiolaris,  St. 
Evaristus,  Pope,  A.  D.  112. 

27-  Star-wort,  floribund,  Jlster  Jloribundus,  St.  Fru- 
mentius,  Apostle  of  Ethiopia,  Century  4th. 

28.  Chrysanthemum,  late  flowering,  creeping,  Chrys. 
serotinum,  St.  Simon,  Apostle,  the  Zealot. 

Star-wort,  scattered,  Jlster  passi/lorus,  St.  Jude,  the 
Apostle. 


29.  Narcissus,  green,  autumnal,  Narcissus  viridijlorus, 
St.  Narcissus,  Bishop  of  Jerusalem,  2nd  Century. 

30.  Mushroom,  mixen,  Jlgaricus  Jlmetarius,  St.  Mar- 
cellus,  the  centurion,  A.  D.  298. 

31.  Tick-seed,  fennel-leaved,  Coreopsis  ferulstrfblia,  St. 
Quintin,  287. 

"  The  31st  October  is  all  Hallow  E'en,  or  the  vigil  of 
All  Saints'  day,  in  which  young  people  try  their  fortune,  by 
drawing  cabbages  from  the  ground,  blindfolded.  Or,  burn- 
ing nuts  in  the  fire,  etc. 

The  cabbage,  or  kale,  being  large  or  small,  straight  or 
crooked,  is  deemed  prophetic  of  the  size  and  form  of  the  grand 
object  of  their  spells.  If  any  earth  adhere  to  the  root,  that  is 
tocher,  or  fortune;  the  taste  of  the  heart  of  the  stem,  is  indi- 
cative of  the  natural  temper  and  disposition.  Lastly,  the 
stems  are  placed  over  the  door,  and  the  Christian  name  of  the 
person  who  first  enters  through  the  door,  will  be  the  name 
sought  for.  If  more  than  one  be  so  affixed,  it  will  be  decided 
according  to  the  priority  of  placing  the  runts  or  stalks. 

The  nuts  are  named,  and  accordingly  as  they  burn  qui- 
etly together,  or  start  from  beside  each  other,  the  course,  and 
issue  of  their  love  will  be." 

These  glowing  nuts  are  emblems  true 
Of  what  in  human  life  we  view; 
The  ill-matched  couple  fret  and  fume, 
And  thus,  in  strife  themselves  consume; 
Or,  from  each  other  wildly  start, 
And  with  a  noise  for  ever  part. 
But  see,  the  happy,  happy  pair, 
Of  genuine  love  and  truth  sincere; 
With  mutual  fondness,  while  they  burn, 
Still  to  each  other  kindly  turn: 
And  as  the  vital  sparks  decay, 
Together  gently  sink  away: 
Till  life's  fierce  ordeal  being  past, 
Their  mingled  ashes  rest  at  last. 

Charles  Graydon,  Esqr. 
From  his  collection  of  poems.    Dublin,  1801. 

NOVEMBER. 

1.  Laurustinus,  Laurustinus  sempervircns,  St.  Fortu- 
natus. 

2.  Cherry,  winter,  Physalis,  St.  Marcian,  A.  D.  387. 

3.  Primrose,  Primula  vulgaris,  St.  Flour,  A.  D.  389. 

4.  Strawberry  tree,  Jlrbutus,  St.  Brinstan,  Bishop  of 
Winchester,  A.  D.  931. 

5.  Cherry,  common  winter,  orange  coloured  fruit,  Phy- 
salis alkakengi,  St.  Bertille,  Abbess  of  Chelles,  A.  D.  692. 

6.  Yew  tree,  common,  of  Europe,  Taxus  baccata,  St. 
Leonard,  6th  Century. 

7.  Fu  re  rasa,  large,  Furcrxa  gigantea,  St.  Willebord, 
First  Bishop  of  Utrecht.  738. 

8.  Aletris,  cape,  Veltheimia  glauca,  the  four  crowned 
Brothers,  Martyrs,  A.  D.  304. 

9.  Aletris,  glaucous-leafed,  Veltheimia  glauca,  St.  John 
Lateran. 

10.  Fir,  Scotch,  Pinus  sylvestris,    St.    Nympha,    5th 
Century. 

11.  Pine,  Wey mouth,  Pinus  strobus,  St.  Martin,  Bish- 
op, A.  D.  397. 

12.  Aloe,  great  orange  flowering,  Veltheimia,  or  JUe- 
tris  uvaria,  St.  Niltis,  A.  D.  390. 

13.  Bay,  Laurits  poetica,  St.  Homobonus,  A.  D.  1197. 


•*•- 


14.  Laurel,   Portugal,    Cerasus  lusitanica,   St.   Law- 
rence, Archbishop  of  Dublin,  1180. 

15.  Colt's-foot,  sweet-scented,  Tussilago  fragrans,  St. 
Gertrude,  Abbess,  1292. 

16.  Hemp,  African  bow-string,  Sanseviera  guineensis, 
St.  Edmund,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  A.  D.  1242. 

17-  Stramony,  or  Thorn  Apple  tree,  Datura  arborea, 
St.  Gregory  Thaumaturgus,  Bishop,  A.  D.  270. 

18.  Passion-Flower,  notched-leafed,  with  curling  rays  to 
flower,  Passiflora  serratifolia,  dedication  of  the  churches 
of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul,  at  Rome. 

19.  Passion-Flower,  apple  fruited,  Passiflora  malifor- 
mis,  St.  Elizabeth,  of  Hungary,  A.  D.  1231. 

20.  Stapelia,  red,   Stapelia  rubra,  St.  Edmund,  King 
and  Martyr,  870. 

21.  Sorrel,  wood,  Oxalis  grandiflora,  the  presentation 
of  the  B.  V.  Mary. 

22.  Sorrel,  wood,  tube-flowered,  Oxalis  tubiflora,  St. 
Cecilia,  A.  D.  230. 

St.  Cecilia,  a  Sicilian  Martyr.  She  is  the  tutular 
Saint  and  Patroness  of  Music,  particularly  of  Sacred  Music. 
She  is  supposed  to  be  the  inventress  of  the  organ;  and  to 
have  drawn  down  an  Angel  from  Heaven  by  the  music  of  her 
voice. 

At  last  divine  Cecilia  came, 

Inventress  of  the  vocal  frame; 
The  sweet  enthusiast,  from  her  sacred  store, 

Enlarg'd  the  former  narrow  bounds, 

And  added  length,  to  solemn  sounds, 
With  Nature's  Mother-wit,  and  arts  unknown  before. 

Let  old  Timotheus  yield  the  prize, 
Or  both  divide  the  crown; 

He  rais'd  a  mortal  to  the  skies; 

She  brought  an  Jlngel  down.  Dry  den. 

23.  Sorrel,  convex,    Oxalis  convexula,    St.   Clement, 
Pope,  A.  D.  100. 

24.  Stapelia,   starry,  Stapelia  radiata,  St.  John  of  the 
cross,  A.  D.  1591. 

25.  Butterbur,  sweet,  Tussilago  fragrans,   St.  Catha- 
rine, Patroness  of  Spinsters,  3rd  Century. 

26.  Sorrel,  linear,    Oxalis  linearis,   St.  Conrad,  Bishop 
of  Constance,  976. 

27.  Sorrel,  lupine-leaved,  Oxalis  lupinifolia,  St.  Virgil, 
Bishop  of  Saltzburg,  A.  D.  784. 

28.  Stapelia,  variegated,  Stapelia  variegata,  St.  Stephen 
the  younger,  764. 

29.  Sphenogyne,  Sphenogyne  pilrftora,  St.  Saturninus, 
Bishop,  A.  D.  257. 

30.  Sorrel,  three-coloured,    Oxalis  tricolor,   St.  Sapor, 
Bishop. 

November  30th  is  St.  Andrew's  Day,  Patron  saint  of 
Scotland,  one  of  the  Apostles.  A  Martyr.  The  form  of  the 
cross  of  St.  Andrew,  is  believed  to  be  that  of  the  letter  X, 
styled  a  cross  Decussate.  The  Muscovites,  say  he  preached 
among  them,  and  claim  him  as  the  tutular  saint  of  their  Em- 
pire. 

DECEMBER. 

1.  Stapelia,  dark,  Stapelia  pulla,  St.  Eligius,  Bishop  of 
Noyon,  A.  D.  659. 


2.  Geodorum,  lemon,  Geodorum  citrinwn,  St.  Bibiania, 
A.  D.  363. 

3.  Indian  Tree,  Euphorbia  tirucalli,  St.  Francis  Xavier, 
A.  D.  1552. 

4.  Goose-berry,  Barbadoes,  Cactus  pereskia,  St.  Peter 
Chrysologus,  450. 

5.  Hibiscus,  long-stalked,  Hibiscus  pedunculatus,  St. 
Crispina,  A.  D.  304. 

6.  Heath,  nest-flowered,  Erica  nudiflora,  St.  Nicholas, 
Archbishop  of  Myra,  342. 

7.  Achania,  hairy,  Jlchania  pilosa,  St.  Ambrose,  A.  D. 
397. 

8.  Arbor  Vitae,  American,  Thuja  occidentalis,  the  B.  V. 
Mary. 

9.  Spruce,  Corsican,  Pinus  Laricio,  St.  Leocadia,  304. 

10.  Cypress,  Portugal,  Cupressus  pendula,  St.  Eulalia. 

11.  Pine,   Aleppo,     Pinus  halepensis,   St.   Damascus, 
Pope,  384. 

12.  Heath,  crowded,  Erica  abietina,  St.  Eadburge,  A.  D. 
751. 

13.  Arbor  Vitae,  African,  Thuja  cupressoides,  St.  Lucy, 
A  Syracuse  Martyr,  A.  D.  304. 

14.  Pine,  swamp,  Pinus  palustris,  St.  Spiridion,  Arch- 
bishop, A.  D.  348. 

15.  Pine,  pitch,  Pinus  resinosa,  St.  Florence,  Abbot. 

16.  Arbor  VitaB,  Chinese,  Thuja  orientalis,  St.  Alice,  or 
Adelaide,  Empress,  A.  D.  999. 

17.  Cedar,  white,  Cupressus  thyoides,   St.  Olympias, 
A.  D.  410. 

18.  Cypress,  New  Holland,    Cupressus  australis,  St. 
Winebald,  760. 

19.  Heath,  two-coloured,  Erica  bicolor,  St.  Samthana, 
Abbess,  738. 

20.  Pine,  stone,  Pinus  pinea,  St.  Philogonius,  Bishop 
of  Antioch,  322. 

21.  Sparrow-wort,  Erica  passerina,  St.  Thomas,  the 
Apostle. 

22.  Heath,  pellucid,  Erica  pellucida,  St.  Cyril,  A.  D. 
881. 

23.  Cedar  of  Lebanon,  Pinus  cedrus,  St.  Victoria,  250. 

24.  Pine,  frankincense,  Pinus  tseda,  Sts.  Thrasilla,  and 
Emiliana. 

25.  Holly,  Ilex  aculeata  baccifera,  the  nativity  of  our 
Saviour. 

Some  say,  that  ever  'gainst  that  season  comes 
Wherein  our  Saviour's  birth  is  celebrated, 
This  bird  of  dawning  singeth  all  night  long. 
And  then,  they  say,  no  spirit  stirs  abroad; 
The  nights  are  wholesome;  then  no  planet  strikes j 
No  fairy  takes,  nor  witch  hath  power  to  charm — 
So  hallow'd,  and  so  gracious  is  the  time. 

Shaks.  Hamlet. 


Christmas,  the  joyous  period  of  the  year! 
Now  with  bright  Holly  all  the  temples  strow, 
With  Laurel,  green,  and  sacred  Mistletoe. 

With  Holly  and  ivy, 

So  green  and  so  gay, 
We  deck  up  our  houses 

As  fresh  as  the  day 


Gay. 


'ISK\\ 


