t 

: 

F 

1 

;  '      ' 

1 

■ 

4 

.  ■  >  ■ . 

1   f  '■ 

H 

■. 

i  i 

1 

i   ; 

i 

1 

UNIVERSlTYy' 

PENNSYLVANIA 

LIBRARIES 


GrFT 


V.  \ 


University  of  Pennsylvania  Library 

Circulation  Department 

Please  return  this  book  as  soon  as  you  have 
finished  with  it.  In  order  to  avoid  a  fine  it  must 
be   returned   by  the   latest   date  stamped   below. 


W 


AMERICANA  GERMANICA. 

A  QUARTERLY  DEVOTED  TO  THE  COMPARATIVE  STUDY 
OP  THE 

LITERARY,  LINGUISTIC  AND  OTHER  CULTURAL  RELATIONS 


GERMANY  AND   AMERICA. 


EDITOR : 

MARION   DEXTER   LEARNED, 

University  of  Pennsylvania. 

CONTRIBUTING  EDITORS: 


H.  C.  G.  BRANDT, 

Hamilton  Colleg-e. 
W.  H.  CARRUTH, 

University  of  Kansas. 
HERMANN   COLLITZ, 

Bryn  Mawr  Colleg'e. 
STARR  W.   CUTTING, 

University  of  Chicago. 
DANIEL   K.    DODGE, 

University  of  Illinois. 
A.  B.  FAUST, 

Wesleyan  University. 
KUNO   PRANCKE, 

Harvard  University, 
ADOLF  GERBER, 

Earlham  College. 

HENRY  WOOD, 


JULIUS  GOEBEL, 

Leland.  Stanford,  Jr.,  University. 
GEORGE  A.  HENCH, 

University  of  Michigan. 
W.  T.  HEWETT, 

Cornell  University. 
.  A.  R.  HOHLFELD, 

Vanderbilt  University. 
H.  SCHMIDT-WARTENBERG, 

University  of  Chicago. 
HERMANN    SCHOENFELD, 

Columbian  University. 
CALVIN    THOMAS, 

Columbia  University. 
H.  S.  "WHITE, 

Cornell  University. 
Johns  Hopkins  University. 


Vol.  I, 


1897. 


Subscription  Price  $2.00. 


Single  Copies  75  Cents. 


THE  MACMILLAN   COMPANY. 


Bton&on: 

MACMILLAN   &  CO.,  Lt'd. 

Berlin: 

MAYER  &  MULLER,  Agents. 


FOREIGN   CONTRIBUTORS. 


The  following  is  a  list  of  the  names  of  Foreign  Scholars  who  have 
expressed  their  willingness  to  cooperate  as  contributors  to  Americana 
Germanica  : 

Prof.  Dr.  Otto  Bindewald,  of  Giessen. 

Privatdocent  Dr.  Karl  Borinski,  University  of  Munich. 

Privatdocent  Dr.  Otto  Bremer,  University  of  Halle. 

Prof.  Dr.  Karl  Breul,  King's  College,  Cambridge,  England. 

Prof.  Dr.  Konrad  Burdach,  University  of  Halle. 

Prof.  Dr.  Creizenach,  University  of  Krakau. 

Prof.  Dr.  Ernst  Elster,  University  of  Leipzig. 

Dr.  K.  Endemann,  Weilburg,  a/L. 

Prof.  Dr.  Ludwig  Geiger,  University  of  Berlin. 

Dr.  Graevell,  Brussels. 

Prof.  Dr.  F.  Holthausen,  University  of  Gotenburg. 

Privatdocent  Dr.  M.-H.  Jellinek,  University  of  Vienna. 

Privatdocent  Dr.  O.  L.  Jiriczek,  University  of  Breslau. 

Prof.  Dr.  Max  Koch,  University  of  Breslau. 

Prof.  Dr.  K.  Landmann,  Darmstadt. 

Prof.  Dr.  H.  Lambel,  University  of  Prague. 

Privatdocent  Dr.  John  Meier,  University  of  Halle. 

Privatdocent  Dr.  Rudolph  Meissner,  University  of  Gottingen. 

Privatdocent  Dr.  Richard  M.  Meyer,  University  of  Berlin. 

Prof.  Dr.  J.  Minor,  University  of  Vienna. 

Prof.  Dr.  E.  Mogk,  University  of  Leipzig. 

Prof.  Dr.  Lorenz  Morsbach,  University  of  Gottingen. 

Prof.  Dr.  F.  Muncker,  University  of  Munich. 

Prof.  Dr.  Paul  Nerrlich,  Berlin. 

Dr.  a.  Ohlert,  Konigsberg. 

Prof.  Dr.  Anton  Schonbach,  University  of  Graz. 

Prof.  Dr.  Bernhard  Seuffert,  University  of  Graz. 

Prof.  Dr.  Alexander  Tille,  University  of  Glasgow. 

Prof.  Dr.  V.  Valentin,  Hochstift,  Frankfurt,  a/M. 

Prof.  Dr.  H.  Varnhagen,  University  of  Erlangen. 

Prof.  Dr.  Oskar  Walzel,  University  of  Bern. 

Prof.  Dr.  G.  Witkowski,  University  of  Leipzig. 

Prof.  Dr.  Wychgram,  Leipzig, 

(List  may  be  extended.) 

L 
^^ 


CONTENTS,  Vol.  I. 


NO.    1.  PAGE 

1..    Charles  Sealsfield's  Place  in  Literature.    .    A.  B.  Faust.       i 

2.  Theatrurn    Crucis    et    Passionis    Domini  Jesu    Christi. 

Nach   einer  Maihinger  Handschrift  aus  dem   xvii.  Jahrhun- 
dert F.  G.  G.  Schmidt.     19 

3.  Conjectural  Restoration  of  the  So-called  Carmen  Gothi- 

cum Alfred  Gudeman.     45 

4.  Ferdinand  Freiligrath  in  America.    .     .     M.  D.  Learned.     54 

5.  Unpublished    Letters    of .  Ferdinand    Freiligrath   to   Dr. 

George  F.  Seidensticker.      .     .     Clara  Seidensticker.     74 

NO.   2. 

1.  A  German    Poem  by  Frederick  Augustus    Muhlenberg. 

Julius  Friedrich  Sachse.       i 

2.  Lenau  in  Amerika.     .         .         .         .         G.  A.  Mulfinger.       7 

3.  America  as  the  Political  Utopia  of  Young  Germany. 

T.  S.  Baker.     62 

NO.   3. 

1.  Lenau  in  Amerika.     (Conclusion.)    .     .     G.  A.  Mulfinger.       i 

2.  The  Verb  in  Thomas  Murner.      .      Daniel  B.  Shumway.     17 

3.  Die  Plattdeutsche  Litteratur  Nordamerika's. 

Karl  Knortz.     76 

4.  Gesang  Nach  Amerika  Anno  1777.     .     .     M.  D.  Learned.     84 

NO.  4. 

1.  The  Verb  in  Thomas  Murner.     (Conclusion.) 

Daniel  B.  Shumway.       i 

2.  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke. 

Kuno  Francke.     31 

3.  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive M.  D.  Learned.     67 


1  ;  i-J-il  i'*  v.  > 


iv  Contents, 

REVIEWS  AND   MISCELLANEOUS. 

No.  1. 

Kuno  Francke's  Social  Forces  in  German  Literature.        Herman  Schoenkeld. 
W.  T.  Hewett's  Poems  of  Uhland.  ^ 

Edward  T.  Schultz's  First  Settlements  of  Germans  in  Maryland.   >  The  Editor. 
Julius  F.  Sachse's  German  Pietists  of  Provincial  Pennsylvania.  J 

No.  2. 

Gustav  Strakosch-Grassman's  Geschichte  der  Deutschen  in  Oesterreich- 

Ungarn. Hermann  Schoenfeld. 

Jacob  Mueller's  Aus  den  Eritmerungen 

eines  Achtundvierzigers. 
Friedrich  Karl  Castelhun's  Gedichte      .        \  The  Editor 

Emil  Edel's  Fmnarolen  und  Schlacken. 
Fliigel-Schmidt-Tanger's  Dictiotiary  of 

the  German  and  English  Language. 

No.  3. 

MacMechan's  Carlyle's  Sartor  Resartiis James  W.  Tupper. 

A.  B.  Faust's  Charles  Sealsfield  {Carl Postl),  der  Dichter  beider  Hemis- 

phaeren.     Sein  Leben  und  seine  Werke.        .        .  Julius  Goebel. 

Rohr's  Zwewle,  Knowloch  un  Marau   .     .      \ 


German  in  the  Public  Schools.   . 
The  Journal  of  Germanic  Philology 
Ethnographical  Data. 


The  Editor. 


No.  4. 

Jacob  Baechtold Hans  Frolicher. 

B.  J.  Vos,  Diction  and  Rime-  Technic  in  the  works  of  Hartman  von  Aue. 

The  Editor. 
Recent  Acquisitions  of  German-Americana. 


PROSPECTUS. 


The  title  of  the  new  periodical  Americana  Germanica  lias 
been  chosen  to  include  a  number  of  related  subjects  in  a  wide 
field,  and  will,  it  is  hoped,  both  suggest  the  cultural  relations 
of  Germany  and  America  and  also  be  found  more  convenient 
than  a  longer,  though  more  explicit,  name. 

The  purpose  of  the  Periodical  is  to  furnish  a  distinct  medium 
for  the  publication  of  results  obtained  from  the  comparative 
study  of  the  literary,  linguistic  and  other  cultural  relations  of 
Germany  and  America,  to  unite  the  efforts  already,  made  in 
this  domain,  to  stimulate  new  researches  on  both  sides  of  the 
Atlantic  and  to  build  up,  in  the  course  of  the  years,  a  series  of 
studies  setting  forth  the  history  of  German  culture  in  America. 

The  Periodical  will  include  in  its  scope  the  following  specific 
subjects  : 

1.  The  literary  relations  of  Germany  and  America — and  Eng- 
land as  far  as  it  has  to  do  with  these  relations — comprising : 

a.  German  literature  written  in  America. 

b.  German  literature  reprinted  in  America. 

c.  American  translations  of  German  literature. 

d.  The  influence  of  American  literature  in  Germany. 

2.  The  linguistic  relations  of  Germany  and  America,  com- 
prising the  Germanic  dialects  of  America  : 

a.  German    dialects   (Dutch,    Piatt,   Palatine,   Thuringian, 

Saxon,  Bavarian,  Swiss). 

b.  Scandinavian  (Danish,  Swedish,  Norwegian,  Icelandic). 

c.  English  only  so  far  as  influencing  or  influenced  by  the 

other  Germanic  dialects. 

3.  The  cultural  relations  (exclusive  of  the  literary  and  lin- 
guistic) of  Germany  and  America,  particularly  folk-lore,  man- 
ners, customs,  industries  and  arts. 

4.  Articles  on  the  general  field  of  Germanics  written  in 
America. 


iv  Prospectus. 

In  order  to  secure  the  best  results  a  number  of  representative 
Germanists  will  act  as  Contributing  Editors.  It  is  clearly  under- 
stood that  they  assume  no  responsibility  for  the  editing  of  the 
Periodical.  They  are  specialists  who  may  contribute  articles 
themselves  or  suggest  and  direct  studies  leading  to  contributions, 
and,  in  the  latter  case,  have  a  sort  of  editorial  supervision  over 
the  work  which  they  recommend. 

Contributions  treating  any  of  these  subjects  will  be  welcomed, 
and  such  as  are  accepted,  will  be  published  at  the  expense  of  the 
Periodical.  Authors  will  receive  twenty-five  copies  of  reprints 
of  original  articles  free  of  charge.  Materials  for  articles  will  be 
thankfully  received  :  such  as  unpublished  manuscripts  of  letters 
and  other  documents.^  prints.^  old  or  neu\  biographical.,  historical., 
literary  or  philological  notes.^  pictures.,  inscriptions.,  files  of  news- 
papers a?id  other  matter  bearing  upon  the  history  of  the  Germans 
in  America  or  of  American  influence  in  Germany.  This  material 
will  be  classified  and  preserved  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania 
and  made  accessible  to  investigators.  Statements  of  material 
contributed  and  the  names  of  the  persons  contributing  will  be 
published  in  the  Periodical. 

In  the  subsequent  issues  of  the  Periodical  particular  attention 
will  be  given  to  reviews  of  works  bearing  upon  the  subjects 
included  within  its  scope.  To  original  works  of  a  high  order  as 
much  as  ten  pages  (ten-point  type)  may  be  allotted,  if  required. 
The  policy  of  the  editor  in  accepting  reviews  will  be  to  hold  the 
reviewer  responsible  for  the  matter  of  the  review  and  allow  the 
freest  discussion  ;  except  that  all  infelicitous  personalities  will 
be  suppressed  should  they  occur.  The  reviews  should  be  search- 
ing, but  not  personal.  Worthless  books  may  be  designated  as 
such,  if  in  the  editor's  opinion  the  cause  of  science  demands  it. 
The  Periodical  will  be  issued  quarterly.  It  is  our  intention 
to  issue  occasional  supplementary  numbers  containing  larger 
treatises,  which,  together  with  selected  articles  reprinted  from 
the  Quarterly,  will  be  constituted  a  collection  of  monographs. 

The  price  of  the  four  nimibers  will  be  two  dollars  ($2.00)  net, 
payable  in  advance. 

The  financial  basis  of  the  enterprise  is  guaranteed. 


Vol.  I.  1897  No.  : 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA. 


CHARLES   SEALSFIELD'S    PLACE  IN  LITERATURE. 


Few  reputations  gained  in  letters  have  been  at  once  so  well- 
earned,  pre-eminent  and  ephemeral  as  that  of  Charles  Seals- 
field  (Carl  Postl).  The  applause  which  in  all  parts  of  Europe 
welcomed  his  Pictures  of  Arnericaii  Life  rivaled  the  extraordi- 
nary success  of  the  romances  of  his  contemporaries  :  Walter  Scott 
and  James  Fennimore  Cooper.  An  immortal  name  seemed  the 
fitting  reward  for  Sealsfield's  realistic  delineations  of  types  of 
American  character.  But  the  author's  fame  blossomed  in  an 
unlucky  time.  The  year  eighteen  hundred  and  forty-eight  was  a 
killing  frost  to  aspiring  literary  talent.  Poetry  and  Fiction  were 
outcasts  during  the  fierce  struggle  for  constitutional  liberty,  and 
the  political  crusade  enlisted  in  its  service  every  pen  that  dared 
to  write. 

When  the  crisis  was  over,  Sealsfield  might  have  regained  his 
popularity  but  for  the  reverses  of  his  publisher,  whose  embarass- 
ments  prevented  the  issuing  of  new  editions  of  his  books.  The 
author's  derogatory  and  eccentric  estimate  of  the  value  and  uses 
of  his  own  work,  caused  him  to  reject  flattering  offers  for  publica- 
tion that  came  to  him  from  other  quarters.  In  view  of  these 
facts  it  is  easy  to  understand  that  Sealsfield's  name  gradually 
drifted  into  obscurity,  even  during  the  writer's  own  life-time. 
The  discovery  at  his  death,  in  1864,  of  his  identity  with  Carl 
Postl,  the  fugitive  monk  of  the  "  Kreuzherrenstift "  at  Prague, 
awakened  an  interest  in  the  author's  mysterious  past,  but  no 


2  R  A.  Faust. 

attempt  was  made  in  behalf  of  his  works  to  re-establish  them  in 
popnlar  favor. 

At  the  present  day  Sealsfield-Postl  has  for  the  most  part  been 
reduced  to  a  mere  name,  his  stories  being  almost  entirely  for- 
gotten. It  would  seem  as  if  oblivion  were  the  final  judgment  of 
posterity  upon  the  work  of  Sealsfield,  were  it  not  for  the  fact 
that  other  great  names  have  similarly  been  unjustly  dealt  with. 
The  subject  of  the  German  novel  of  the  nineteenth  century  has 
not  yet  attracted  scholars  in  the  same  degree  as  other  depart- 
ments of  German  literature.  Authors  have  been  classified  (as  in 
Gottschall's  Gesch.  d.  deiUschen  Lit.  im  igten  Jdt.)^  but  not  pre- 
sented in  their  proper  perspective ;  types  of  the  novel  have  been 
defined,  but  their  interrelations  have  not  yet  been  thoroughly 
examined. 

Sealsfield  has  often  been  called  "  Der  Dichter  beider  Hemis- 
pharen,"  a  name  which  is  very  significant,  implying  not  only 
that  he  resided  in  both  the  old  world  and  the  new,  but  also  that 
his  work  belongs  to  the  literature  of  both  continents.  In  esti- 
mating the  author's  place  in  literature,  therefore,  we  must  con- 
sider him  first  as  an  American  and  then  as  a  German  writer,  and 
define  his  position  in  both  literatures. 

The  English  translations  of  the  author's  works,  being  mostly 
very  inferior  reproductions  of  their  originals,  never  gained  an 
extensive  circulation  in  the  United  States.  Since  the  study  of 
the  German  language  in  this  country  was  not  approached  with 
the  same  enthusiasm  fifty  years  ago  as  at  the  present  time,  it  is 
possible  to  understand  the  fact  that  the  German  romances  of 
Sealsfield  did  not  fare  better  than  the  translations.  To  one,  how- 
ever, so  devoted  to  the  study  of  German  literature  as  Henrys 
Wadsworth  Longfellow,  the  writings  of  Sealsfield  were  by  no 
means  unfamiliar.  The  following  entry  is  to  be  found  in  the 
poet's  diary.* 

1847,  January  23, — "  Morning  as  yesterday, — sitting  by  the  fire 
in  a  darkened  room  ;  writing  with  a  pencil  in  my  portfolio,  with- 

*  Life  of  H.  W.  Longfcllocv,  -with  Extracts  from  His  fournals  a7id  Corres- 
pondence.    Edited  by  Samuel  Longfellow.     Vol.  ii,  p.  77. 


Chai'les  Sealsjield.  3 

out  the  use  of  eyes.  [In  the  evening]  F.  read  our  favorite  Seals- 
field.  His  descriptions  of  the  Southwest  are  very  striking.  The 
Creole  ball  quite  life-like,  and  the  passage  through  the  cypress 
swamp  terrible." 

To  be  called  "  favorite  "  is  high  praise  indeed,  yet  such  was 
the  judgment  of  all  who  were  at  all  susceptible  to  the  charm  of 
Sealsfield's  narratives.  Though  his  works  never  circulated 
widely  in  this  country,  there  is  still  abundant  evidence  that 
they  became  books  for  authors.  This  I  attempted  to  prove  in  a 
monograph  entitled  Charles  Sealsfield  ( Carl  Postl) ;  Materials 
for  a  Biography  ;  a  Study  of  his  Style  ;  his  Influence  upon  Ameri- 
can Literature.,'^  where  examples  of  his  influence  upon  a  num- 
ber of  American  writers  were  given.  A  parallel  was  there 
drawn  between  Sealsfield's  Tokeah ;  or  the  White  Rose  ("  der 
Legitime  und  die  Republikaner")  and  Helen  Jackson's  novel 
Ramoiia,  If  Tokeah  symbolizes  the  tragic  fate  of  the  Red  Man 
east  of  the  Mississippi,  the  story  of  Mrs.  Jackson  represents  the 
decline  of  the  Indian  race  west  of  the  Mississippi.  Tokeah  and 
Alessandro,  each  the  last  of  a  noble  race,  are  by  slow  but  in- 
evitable stages  driven  to  despair  and  death  by  the  incursions  of 
the  white  race.  The  aged  father  of  Alessandro  utters  prophetic 
speeches  like  the  wise  chieftain  Tokeah.  Ramona,  the  heroine, 
seems  to  combine  characteristics  of  Canondah  and  of  the  White 
Rose.  Ramona's  life  of  self-sacrifice  in  the  Indian  village 
presents  a  striking  analogy  to  Canondah's.  They  are  both  ideals 
of  Indian  womanhood,  and  are  the  ministering  angels  of  their 
people.  If  Mrs.  Jackson's  story  be  looked  upon  as  a  sequel  to 
Tokeah,  it  would  seem  as  though  Sealsfield's  young  and  valiant 
El  Sol — the  promise  of  his  race — had  reappeared  several  gener- 
ations later  in  the  person  of  Alessandro,  only  to  meet  the  same 
fate  as  Tokeah  in  the  past. 

The  romance  Guy  Rivers.,  published  in  1834,  by  William 
Gilmore  Simms,  contains  a  chapter  which  Griswold  f  and  Trent| 

*  Dissertation,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Baltimore,  1892. 
t  Griswold,  Prose  Writers  of  America,  4th  ed.,  p.  504, 

X  Wm,  P.  Trent,  Williatn  Gilmore  Simms,  p.  88 ;  American  Men  of  Letter 
Series.     Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co.     Boston,  1892. 


4  A.  B.  Faust. 

believed  to  have  been  copied  by  Sealsfield.  The  part  in  question 
is  chapter  vi  in  G7iy  Rivers^  where  a  Yankee  peddler  appears, 
Jared  Bunce  by  name,  whom  the  Regulators  "  tar  and  feather" 
for  selling  spurious  wares.  In  Sealsfield's  Ralph  Doughby^s 
Brautfahrt  (chapter  i)  the  Yankee  Jared  Bundle  is  brought  to 
justice,  in  a  somewhat  less  cruel  manner,  for  the  same  offense 
committed  on  board  a  Mississippi  steamboat.  Since  Sealsfield's 
Transatlantic  Sketches.^  according  to  the  author's  own  statement, 
were  written  as  early  as  1828-29,  and  some  of  them  published 
in  American  journals  during  that  time,*  this  chapter  may  be 
regarded  with  a  far  greater  degree  of  probability  as  a  borrowing 
from  the  German  writer,  unless  the  hypothesis  be  preferred  that 
both  authors  drew  from  a  third  source  which  is  unknown  to  ws,. 

A  remarkable  case  of  plagiarism  from  Sealsfield's  works  ap- 
peared in  Mayne  Reid's  harrowing  tale  Wild  Life.,  1856,  in 
which  chapters  xviii  to  xxvii  have  been  stolen  outright  from  our 
author's  Caj'utenbuch  oder  Nationale  Chai^akteristiken  (1841), 
vol.  i,  chapters  ii-xi.  Die  Prai^'ie  am  Jacinto.,  and  vol.  i],  chap- 
ters xiii  and  xiv  (in  part)  Der  Krieg. 

Mayne  Reid  drew  not  directly  from  the  German  source,  but 
from  Blackwood's  Edinburgh  Magazine.,  in  which  there  ap- 
peared many  translations  from  Sealsfield's  works  (by  F.  Hard- 
man)  those  taken  being, — December,  1843,  Adventures  in  Texas., 
No.  /,  "The  Prairie  of  Jacinto,"  pp.  551-564;  Adventures  in 
Texas.,  No.  2.,  "A  Trial  by  Jury,"  pp.  78-99;  Januar^^,  1844, 
Adventures  in  Texas.,  No.  j,  "The  Struggle,"  pp.  18-33. 

These  selections  were  copied  verbatim  by  the  piratical  writer, 
and  became  pp.  186-287  of  his  book.  Even  the  divisions  into 
paragraphs  remain  unchanged.  He  arranges  the  material  into 
short  chapters,  but  what  precedes  page  186  is  a  bloody  tale,  with 
no  connection  whatever  with  Sealsfield's  famous  story.  The 
feeble  eflfort  made  on  pages  287-88  to  combine  the  two  stories  is 
truly  ridiculous. 

The  fact  that  Sealsfield  for  so  long  a  period  published  anony- 
mously made  his  works  an  easy  prey  to  plagiarism  ;  examples 
*  See  e.  g.  New  York  Mirror y  Oct.  31,  1829  ;  Nov.  7,  1829. 


Charles  Sealsfield.  5 

of  this  in  the  department  of  juvenile  literature  could  no  doubt 
be  multiplied  if  such  results  were  at  all  valuable  or  instructive. 

Sealsfield's  importance  in  American  literature  is  not,  however, 
based  so  much  upon  the  stimulus  he  may  have  given  to  other 
writers,  or  upon  the  number  of  plagiarisms  that  it  is  possible  to 
discover,  as  upon  the  literary  and  historical  value  of  the  works 
themselves,  a  fact  which  should  become  known  and  recognized. 
Had  Sealsfield,  when  in  New  York  City  in  1854,  accepted  the 
offer  received  from  Appleton's  for  the  publication  of  his  complete 
works  in  an  edition  parallel  to  the  German  Stuttgart  edition,  the 
author  would  no  doubt  have  long  ago  been  declared  worthy  of  an 
honorable  place  in  the  annals  of  American  literature. 

He  immortalized  types  of  American  character,  as  they  existed 
between  1 820-1 840,  arresting  them  at  the  moment  of  their  high- 
est activity  and  before  their  speedy  disappearance  in  the  vortex 
of  American  life.  The  dauntless  squatter  and  sturdy  pioneer,  the 
Southern  planter  and  patriarchal  slave-holder,  the  grasping  mil- 
lionaire and  his  emissaries,  the  New  York  dandy  and  the  society 
belle,  the  taciturn  Yankee  sea-captain  and  the  hot-blooded  Ken- 
tuckian,  the  utilitarian  alcalde  and  the  redeemed  desperado,  these 
have  been  endowed  with  enduring  life  in  Sealsfield's  works. 
Like  Bret  Harte's  early  California  miners,  or  the  brave  mariners 
of  Cooper's  tales,  like  George  Cable's  Creoles,  or  Hawthorne's 
New  England  Puritans,  so  also  Sealsfield's  types  will  ever  be 
regarded  as  mile-stones  marking  the  progress  of  American  culture 
and  civilization.  In  their  richness  of  historical  materials,  our 
author's  works  surpass  by  far  the  sensational  romances  of  his 
Southern  comtemporary,  William  Gilmore  Simms,  and  when- 
ever Sealsfield  traverses  the  same  ground  with  another  author, 
he  rarely  loses  by  comparison.  Cooper's  Indians  are  generally 
admitted  to  be  less  true  to  nature  than  Sealsfield's,  while  the  sen- 
timental semi-savage  Natty  Bumppo,  cannot  engage  our  sympa- 
thy in  the  same  way  as  the  realistic  and  vigorous  Nathan  Strong, 
the  squatter-regulator.  We  cannot  overlook  the  fact,  however, 
that  in  weaving  a  plot  and  in  rounding  off  a  story  Cooper  shows 
greater  artistic  skill. 


6  A.  B.  Faust. 

Sealsfield  has  a  keen  eye  for  national  characteristics,  and  intro- 
duces in  all  of  his  stories  one  or  more  foreigners,  who  generally 
become  martyrs  to  his  wit.  His  local  American  hits  and  imita- 
tions of  dialect  add  further  picturesqueness  to  a  style  which  is 
naturally  racy  and  vivacious.  He  is  uniformly  successful  in  his 
descriptions  of  nature  in  her  grandest  forms  and  higher  moods, 
e.  £■.,  when  he  portrays  a  sunrise  in  the  tropics,  a  fire  in  the 
prairies,  the  reverential  stillness  of  the  primeval  forest,  or  the 
splendor  of  the  Southern  heavens.  The  artist  is,  however,  lost  in 
the  contemplation  of  the  details  of  his  picture  and  rarely  perceives 
analogies  to  human  life.  His  account  of  the  St.  Jacinto  Prairie 
(Cabin  Book)  is  nevertheless  considered  one  of  the  masterpieces 
of  German  descriptive  prose.  Through  his  selection  of  interesting 
materials,  and  the  constant  succession  of  stirring  incidents,  the 
author  in  all  his  books  attains  a  wonderful  power  of  fascination, 
holding  the  reader  spellbound  to  the  end,  an  art  which  no  doubt 
he  derived  in  great  measure  from  Walter  Scott. 

As  in  the  case  of  Cooper  and  Bret  Harte,  so  Sealsfield's  produc- 
tivity allowed  him  little  opportunity  for  psychological  analysis, 
and  similarly  many  of  his  creations  are  mere  puppets  or  silhou- 
ettes. This  is  especially  true  of  the  author's  female  characters, 
which,  with  the  exception  of  Dougaldine,  the  society  belle,  and 
Rachel,  the  squatter's  wife,  are  either  ideal  importations  from 
fairy  land,  or  bacchanalians  that  haunt  the  dreams  of  an  ancho- 
rite. But  the  types  which  he  has  carefully  drawn,  and  which 
will  last,  are  those  which  he  has  keenly  recognized  as  distinctly 
national.  The  significance  of  these  creations  cannot  be  over- 
estimated when  we  bear  in  mind  that  American  men  of  letters 
had  at  that  time  hardly  begun  to  assert  their  national  inde- 
pendence. 

It  is  a  difficult  task  in  the  case  of  a  writer  of  such  marked 
individuality  as  Charles  Sealsfield,  to  discover  what  models  were 
influential  in  the  development  of  his  art.  Sealsfield  was  a  pio- 
neer in  letters,  the  founder  of  a  new  school  of  German  romance 
writers.  He  was,  to  give  him  the  name  in  which  he  took  delight, 
a  self-made  man  in  letters,  departing  from  the  frequented  high- 


Charles  Sealsfield.  7 

way  of  literature  and  beating  his  own  path  through  untrodden 
regions.  For  this  very  reason,  German  critics  have  been  accus- 
tomed to  isolate  him,  to  view  him  apart  from  his  contemporaries, 
to  dismiss  him  with  the  name,  "  der  grosse  Unbekannte,"  as  one 
who  had  brought  something  exotic  and  mysterious  from  foreign 
lands,  Avhere  unquestionably  the  trees  and  mountains  rise  higher, 
the  rivers  run  wider,  and  the  cataracts  roar  louder  than  in  less 
favored  Germany.  But  Sealsfield  cannot  be  understood  when 
viewed  apart  from  the  age  in  which  he  lived  ;  he  is  truly  a  pro- 
duct of  his  time,  sharing  its  prejudices,  swept  on  by  its  swift 
currents. 

The  years  of  our  author's  early  manhood  were  spent  as  a  priest 
in  the  city  of  Prague.  There  he  lived  in  an  atmosphere  of  cul- 
ture, and  in  the  circles  of  the  nobility,  to  which  he  had  ready 
access,  there  stirred  a  breath  of  freedom  in  opposition  to  the 
tyrannical  sway  of  Metternich.  Up  to  his  flight  in  1823,  Carl 
Postl  was  kept  in  touch  with  all  new  liberal  movements  in 
European  politics  and  literature.  No  doubt  he  was  familiar 
with  the  writings  of  Borne,  who,  since  1818,  was  editor  of  die 
Wage^  and  as  early  as  1820  enjoyed  the  reputation  of  being  one 
of  the  most  brilliant  writers  of  the  "Opposition."  The  power 
of  Borne's  pen  was  felt  and  valued  in  Austria,  for  many  were 
the  attempts  made  to  bribe  him  into  the  service  of  the  Austrian 
monarch, — offers  in  which  the  mediator  was  Borne's  own  father, 
who  was  said  to  have  been  once  a  classmate  of  Metternich. 

That  Sealsfield  was  an  admirer  of  Borne  we  learn  from  Kert- 
beny,*  who  speaks  of  Sealsfield's  visit  to  Borne  and  contrasts 
this  with  his  shunning  the  acquaintance  of  Heine,  whom  Seals- 
field  calls  "der  sich  Gott  diinkende  Heine." 

It  is  a  fact  worth  recalling,  that  our  author  offered  his  first 
book,  viz.,  Die  Vereifiigten  Staaten  von  Nordamerika  (Sidons) 
to  the  publisher  Freiherr  von  Cotta,  who  was  the  fosterfather 
of  "  das  junge  Deutschland,"  and  the  patron  of  liberalism,  who 
had  employed  Borne  as  a  correspondent  in  Paris.  Sealsfield 
himself,  writing  for  Cotta's  journals,  identified  himself  with  the 


*  Erinnerungen  an  Sealsfield. 


8  A.  B.  Faust. 

new  young  German  journalistic  movement.  Descriptions  of 
travel,  daintily  serving  up  liberal  views  in  a  half-concealed 
manner  were  frequently  the  device  used  by  the  new  authors  to 
get  their  writings  to  pass  censorship.  Sealsfield's  Austria  As  It 
Is  was  in  every  respect  a  work  of  this  class,  a  journalistic  efifort, 
a  bomb  hurled  at  political  oppression,  yet  seemingly  only  a  book 
of  travel. 

The  author  did  not  remain  long,  however,  in  the  service  of 
"das  junge  Deutschland."  While  in  the  United  States  he  con- 
ceived the  plan  of  a  series  of  romances  upon  which  his  fame 
chiefly  depends.  The  inspiration  for  these  came  not  from 
"Jungdeutschland,"  but  from  the  success  achieved  by  Walter 
Scott,  Cooper  and  Irving.  The  following  passage  from  Kert- 
beny's  "  Erinnerungen  an  Sealsfield"  will  illustrate  this  point : 

"  Als  ich  einst  das  Gesprach  auf  die  RoUe  brachte,  die  der 
Roman  ini  modernen  Leben  spiele,  bemerkte  Sealsfield :  '  In 
Frankreich  und  Deutschland,  wo  der  Roman  entweder  nur  Mittel 
zur  Aufregung  der  Phantasie  ist,  oder  doch  nur  Unterhaltung, 
hochstens  geistreiche  Losung  von  Gemiitsproblemen  bieten  soil, 
hat  man  keine  Ahnung,  welch  ein  bedeutender  Civilisations- 
faktor  der  Roman  in  England  und  Amerika  ist.  Dort  ventilirt 
man  in  dieser  Form  alle  Fragen  des  reellen  und  socialen  Lebens, 
und  die  Masse  des  Volks,  das  fast  nur  Journale  und  Romane 
liest,  zieht  seine  gesammten  Bildungsstoffe  beinahe  bios  aus 
diesen  beiden  Vermittlern.  Ein  gut  Teil  daher  der  tjberras- 
chung  und  Faszinirung  den  meine  Romane  hervorbrachten  ist 
weniger  meiner  individuellen  Begabung  zuzuschreiben,  als  dem 
Vorteile  fiir  mich,  dass  ich  als  erster  ein  derart  bestimmtes 
Romangenre  in  die  deutsche  Literatur  einfiihrte,  so  ungenirt 
gleich  auf  diesem  Terain  stehend,  als  ware  es  das  langstgewohnte 
auch  Deutschlands.  Dies  Genre  aber  heisst :  die  Realitat, 
jedoch  durch  tiefangelegte  psychologische  Probleme  zu  kiinst- 
lerischem  Interesse  daran,  gesteigert.'  " 

We  see  from  this  that  it  was  the  English  novel  which  stimu- 
lated Sealsfield  to  production.  Never  a  close  student  of  litera- 
ture, he  did  not  become  thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  difierent 


Charles  Sealsfield.  9 

forms  of  the  English  novel,  but  inaugurated  his  own  type  of 
romance.  Indeed,  he  betrays  at  times  a  marked  bias  toward 
German  models.  Through  Borne  he  became  an  admirer  of  Jean 
Paul  Friedrich  Richter,  with  whom  he  shares  the  fault  of  leaving 
many  of  his  works  fragmentary.  J.  Schmidt*  attempts  to  trace 
influences  of  German  romanticism  in  Sealsfield's  descriptions  of 
natural  scenery,  which  verge  at  times  upon  the  supernatural ; 
another  indication  can  be  seen  in  our  author's  sentimental  and 
wavering  heroes  and  in  his  fondness  for  giving  characters  and 
scenes  a  symbolic  meaning.  What  he  especially  admired  in  the 
English  novel  was  the  influential  position  it  held  in  regard  to 
culture  and  education,  and  his  ambition  was  fixed  upon  raising 
German  fiction  to  the  same  level. 

Sealsfield  gave  a  new  direction  to  German  novel  writing ;  he 
was  the  founder  of  a  school  of  romance  in  German  literature, 
known  as  that  of  the  Ethnographische  Roman  or  Exotische 
Culttiiro}nan.'\  His  books  described  in  glowing  colors  the 
development  of  nations  in  foreign  lands,  their  struggles  for  inde- 
pendence, their  zeal  for  enterprise,  the  hostile  combats  with 
man's  prime  enemy,  nature.  The  author  held  up  a  wonderful 
kaleidoscope,  showing  ever  varying  pictures  of  the  titanic  strug- 
gle for  liberty  of  young  but  mighty  nations,  and  he  presented 
them  to  the  gaze  of  the  enslaved  of  all  countries,  but  especially  as 
ideals  of  attainment  for  the  dismembered  fragments  of  the  Ger- 
man people.  With  roots  in  the  same  soil  as  "  Jungdeutschland," 
the  school  of  Exotic  Romance,  refused  to  interpret  liberty  as 
license,  and  battled  against  the  vicious  principles  of  its  contem- 
porary. Sealsfield's  works  were  written  with  an  ethical  purpose, 
as  is  expressed  in  an  introduction  to  his  complete  works,  (Vol. 
vii):  "  I  wish,"  he  says,  "to  gain  for  the  historical  novel  a  more 
exalted  position,  from  which  it  may  spread  a  wholesome  influ- 
ence upon  the  culture  of  the  age,  and  by  means  of  truthful  and 

*  Geschichte  der  deutschen  Literatur  seit  Lessings  Tod. 

t  Gottschall,  Rudolf,  "Z>zV  deutsche  National  literatuj-  des  Neutizehnten  Jahr- 
hunderts." 

''  Portraits  und  Siudien.''''     Reprint:  "  Un  sere  Zeit."     1865.     "Charles 

Sealsfield Ein  lit.  Portrait.''' 


lo  A.  B.  Faust. 

substantial  materials  to  supply  an  antidote  against  the  poison 
issuing  from  the  thousands  of  stupid  and  pernicious  novels 
(Aloderomanen)  that  are  now  appearing,  and  which  serve  to  dis- 
tort still  more  our  unnatural  conditions  of  society."  This  para- 
graph is  evidently  a  home-thrust  at  the  writings  of  Gutzkow, 
Heine,  Laube  and  others. 

The  most  successful  and  productive  of  the  followers  of  Seals- 
field  in  the  field  of  the  exotic  romance  was  Fredrich  Gerstacker. 
He  has  been  called  the  "  Doppelganger  "  *  of  Sealsfield,  but  the 
criticism  implied  in  this  term  is  inexact,  for  the  two  authors, 
though  treating  similar  subjects  have  followed  widely  different 
paths.  Sealsfield's  characters  are  for  the  most  part  Americans, 
Gerstacker's  heroes  are  Germans.  The  latter  tells  the  story  of 
the  great  "  Volkerw-anderung"  of  the  German  people  to  America, 
while  the  founder  of  the  school  attempts  to  portray  in  all  its 
phases  the  life  of  the  American  people.  Besides  this,  there  are 
marked  differences  in  treatment,  that  have  been  best  expressed 
in  Gotschall's  formula:  "Der  Exotische  Roman  Sealsfield's  ist 
die  Bliite  eines  begeisterten  Cosmopolitismus,  der  exotische 
Roman  Gerstackers  die  Frucht  eines  gesunden  Realismus." 

The  writer,  who,  with  justice,  should  be  called  the  "double"  of 
Sealsfield,  has  never  been  named  as  such.  He  is  Theodor 
Miigge,  who  came  into  prominence  in  1830  through  the  publi- 
cation of  two  political  pamphlets,  which  displeased  the  Prussian 
government  and  deprived  the  writer  of  every  chance  of  being 
thereafter  employed  in  the  service  of  the  state.  He  adopted 
literature  as  his  profession,  and  in  1840  published  his  novel 
Toiiissaint^  which  describes  the  struggles  for  freedom  upon  the 
Island  of  St.  Domingo,  and  the  hatred  of  the  contending  white 
and  black  races.  In  depicting  this  race-struggle,  he  follows  the 
model  of  Sealsfield's  Virey  zi.  die  Ar'istokrateji  (1834),  which  of 
all  his  works  produced  an  effect  most  memorable.  The  hero  of 
Miigge's  romance  who  is  a  representative  of  the  better  class  of 
natives,  a  statesman  and  general;  furthermore,  the  brave  mulatto 


*Hoiinegger,    ''Griindsieine  einer  AUgenicinen   Cidtiirgeschichte.     Leipzig^ 
1S71.     Vol.  iv.,  p.  244  f. 


Charles  Sealsjield.  ii 

Rigaud,  an  idol  of  the  populace,  as  well  as  the  monster  Dessalines, 
all  find  their  parallels  in  Sealsfield's  Mexican  story.  Miigge  is 
ever  the  champion  of  the  oppressed — paints  grand  historical 
frescoes,  and  produces  instantaneous  pen  pictures  of  certain 
important  moments  in  political  revolutions.  In-so-far,  he  is  the 
only  true  follower  of  Sealsfield.  Again,  he  is  generally  very 
happy  in  descriptions  of  natural  scenery,  and  rivals  the  art  of  his 
master  through  his  portrayals  of  the  fjords  and  fjelds  of  Norway, 
a  country  which  he  has  visited  repeatedly,  and  whose  social  and 
political  history  he  has  studied  carefully  (cf.  Afraja  1854,  Erich 
Randal^  1856).  Miigge's  stories  are  better  calculated  to  appeal 
to  the  popular  taste  than  Sealsfield's  ;  they  are  less  sketchy,  and 
are  carried  to  a  satisfactory  conclusion. 

One  of  the  most  popular  of  Mugge's  novels,  Afraja  (1854)^ 
borrows  a  number  of  characters  from  Sealsfield's  works.  As  in 
Der  Legitime  u.  die  Republikaner^^''  we  find  depicted  here  the 
last  struggles  of  a  dying  race,  viz.  :  the  Finns  against  the  en- 
croachments of  the  Danes.  The  old  Finnish  chieftain  Afraja  and 
his  daughter  Gula  were  clearly  suggested  by  the  Indian  chief 
Tokeah  and  his  daughter  Canondah.  The  Danish  pioneer  and 
fisherman  Helgestad  is  an  exact  reproduction  of  Sealsfield's 
Nathan  Strong,  the  squatter-regulator,  with  the  single  exception 
that  Helgestad  turns  out  to  be  a  villain,  and  ends  disastrously. 
Singularly  enough  in  this  story  Miigge  also  imitated  to  a  cer- 
tain extent  Sealsfield's  peculiar  German  style,  his  use  of  words, 
his  "  Sprache  der  Personen"  (discussed  at  length  in  my  disserta- 
tion already  referred  to).  We  find  Helgestad  uttering  such 
speeches  as  the  following:  "Mary,  altes  Weib  am  Feuer?" 
"  Kalkuliere,  verstehe  die  Kunst,"  "  1st  ein  machtig  sonderlicher 
Traum."  '"1st  kurios  !'  rief  H.,  lachend,  '  habt  Wild  und  Vogel 
hier  genug,  dazu  das  Meer  voll  Fische,  die  bis  an  Eure  Schwelle 
schwimmen,  sieht  aber  doch  elend  in  Eurer  Kiiche  aus.'  "  "  '  1st 
ein  Faktum,'  rief  H.,  dazwischen,  '  ist  es  nicht  so  ?    Denke  ia  !'  " 

"  A  biography  of  Th.  Miigge  has  never  appeared,  nor  have 
any  of  his  letters  been  published.  Miigge  was  for  several  years 
editor  of  the  Feuilleton  of  the  National  Zeitwig  of  Berlin,  a 


12  A.  B.  Faust. 

paper  of  which  he  was  one  of  the  founders  in  1848,  but  few  of 
his  articles  found  therein  have  any  bearing  upon  the  German 
historical  novel.  It  is  therefore  impossible  at  the  present 
moment  to  find  any  trace  of  a  confession  that  Miigge  admired 
the  works  of  Sealsfield  and  was  inspired  by  them  ;  though  the 
internal  evidence  brought  forward  above  points  strongly  in  this 
direction.  The  only  statement  found  which  in  some  way  might 
indicate  dependence  upon  others  is  the  following,  an  extract 
from  the  preface  to  the  second  edition  of  his  novels  (1862): 
"  Walter  Scott  hat  viele,  oft  ausgezeichnete  und  geistvolle 
Nachahmer  gefunden.  Bs  ware  mehr  als  Vermessen,  wollte  ich 
meine  schwachen  Leistungen  neben  diejenigen  dieser  vereherten 
Dichter  stellen  ;  allein,  wenn  ich  audi  nicht  mit  den  gleichen 
hochgearteten  Gaben  belehnt  wurde,  niemals  werde  ich  Einem 
weichen,  wenn  es  auf  den  Willen  ankommt  meinem  Vaterlaude 
niitzlich  zu  sein." 

Kiirnberger's  Der  Amerikatnude^  that  clever  though  poignant 
review  of  the  culture  and  civilization  of  the  United  States  in  the 
first  half  of  the  century,  contains  a  plagiarism  from  Sealsfield, 
which  has  never  been  noticed  heretofore.  The  part  borrowed 
occurs  at  page  338,  Zweites  Buch,  i.  Kapitel  (Reclam  edition), 
and  is  taken  from  Sealsfield's  Morto7i  oder  die  grosse  Tour 
(Erstes  Teil,  Kap.  i,  S.  6\i.).  It  is  the  story  of  the  German 
redemptionist  "  Martin,"  who  has  hidden  his  gold  and  treasure 
in  a  filthy  bundle  of  rags,  and  who  voluntarily  lengthens  the 
period  of  his  servitude  in  order  the  quicker  to  procure  the  means 
for  buying  a  prosperous  farm.  He  is  an  object  of  contempt  to 
the  hero  of  Amerikamude^  as  he  has  been  to  Sealsfield's  Mor- 
ton. A  plagiarism  in  an  important  work  of  this  kind  shows 
what  an  extensive  influence  Sealsfield  exerted  over  all  contem- 
poraries who  wrote  on  American  subjects. 

The  remaining  names  of  the  school  of  the  exotic  romance  are 
very  numerous,  but  the  most  prominent  are :  Baldwin  M611- 
hausen,  Friedrich  A.  Strubberg  (pseudonym  Armand)  and  Otto 
Ruppius.  Each  of  these  has  written  pleasing  romances  of  adven- 
ture, based  upon  actual  experiences  in  the  New  World,  unlike 


Charles  Sealsfield.  13 

Kurnberger,  who  never  visited  America.  While  exhibiting 
greater  mechanical  skill  than  the  founder  of  the  school  in  round- 
ing off  a  story,  their  ideals  in  regard  to  the  historical  and  educa- 
tional mission  of  the  novel  are  not  nearly  so  high.  Like  Ger- 
stacker  they  describe  the  victory  of  German  industry  and  honesty 
over  the  hostility  of  Nature  and  the  treachery  of  the  natives  both 
red  and  white ;  but  not  as  with  Sealsfield  and  Miigge  are  we 
made  to  live  and  move  in  great  epochs  of  history. 

The  school  of  the  exotic  romance  has  had  its  uses  as  an 
educational  factor  in  Germany ;  it  has  also  assisted  in  preparing 
the  way  for  political  liberty,  by  harboring  in  an  artistic  form 
radical  expressions  of  opinion  which  would  otherwise  not  have 
passed  censorship.  But  its  great  service  performed  for  German 
literature  was  the  impetus  it  gave  to  realism.  The  founder  of 
the  school  himself  has  called  realism  the  characteristic  of  the 
new  type  of  novel. 

We  find  in  Treitschke's  Deutsche  Geschichte  im  igten  Jahr- 
hundert  (vol.  iv,  p.  451)  the  following  interesting  paragraph  : 

"  Sonst  ragt  als  erzahlender  Dichter  nur  noch  einer  iiber  die 
Unzahl  der  Unterhaltungsschriftsteller  empor,  Charles  Sealsfield, 
urspriinglich  Carl  Postl  geheissen,  ein  Marischer  Monch,  der  aus 
dem  Kloster  entflohen,  nachher  lange  in  Amerika  umherzog  und 
sich  auch  das  seltsame  Kauderwalsch  der  Deutsch-Amerikaner 
aneignete.  Seine  Romane,  '  die  Legitimisten'  (der  Legitime) 
und  '  der  Virey,'  fiihrten  unsere  Poesie  zum  ersten  Male  in  den 
fernen  Westen,  in  jene  Cultur  und  Rassenkampfe  Amerikas,  an 
denen  schon  so  viele  Deutsche  teilnahmen.  Durch  die  brennende 
Pracht  seiner  tropischen  Landschaftsbilder  und  die  Energie  der 
Characterbezeichnung  iibertraf  er  Cooper  bei  Weitem,  doch  in 
alien  seinen  Schriften  arbeitete  eine  fieberische  Unruhe,  die  der 
Masse  der  Leser  unbequemer  war  als  die  Breite  des  Amerikaners. 
An  solchen  ungeschulten,  starken  Talenten  lasst  sich  der  Geist 
einer  Epoche  am  sichersten  erkennen.  Sealsfield's  Schriften 
beweisen  wie  unaufhaltsam  die  Zeit  dem  Realismus  zudrangte." 

The  last  sentence  explains  Sealsfield's  position  in  German 
literature.     His  writings  represent  the  drift  of  the  times  toward 


14  ^-  B-  Faust. 

realism.  Gerstacker  and  Miigge  in  this  regard  both  followed  in 
his  foot  steps.  Even  the  writers  of  the  school  with  ideals  less 
lofty  represented  the  same  tendency.  If  their  tales  of  wild  adven- 
ture do  not  appear  realistic  to  Americans,  they  have  appeared  so 
at  least  to  the  European  mind.  Even  at  the  present  day,  credu- 
lous foreigners  will  imagine  they  have  witnessed  a  truthful 
picture  of  American  life,  when  a  band  of  trained  Indians  and 
performing  cowboys  have  been  exhibited  before  them. 

The  exotic  romance  therefore  represents  realism,  and  in  the 
history  of  German  fiction  should  be  regarded  as  a  stepping-stone, 
making  possible  the  transition  from  the  novel  of  the  romanti- 
cists, to  the  Zeitroman  of  Gutzkow,  Freytay  and  Spielhagen. 

It  has  already  been  shown  in  what  respects  Sealsfield  remained 
in  touch  with  German  romanticism,  it  is  possible  to  prove  that 
he  stood  still  closer  to  the  realistic  novel  of  Gutzkow.  The  lat- 
ter in  his  novel,  Die  Ritter  vom  Geiste  (1850-52),  and  in  his 
later  work,  Der  Zmiberer  von  Ro7n  (1858-61),  claims  to  have 
invented  a  new  species  of  novel.  This  is  described  in  the  preface 
to  the  first  edition  of  Der  Ritter  vom  Geiste  (1850),  as  follows  : 

"  Denn  ich  glaube  dass  der  Roman  eine  neue  Phase  erlebt. 
Er  soil  in  der  That  mehr  werden,  als  der  Roman  von  friiher 
gewesen.  Der  Roman  von  fruher,  ich  spreche  nicht  verachtend, 
sondern  bewundernd,  stellte  das  Nacheinander  kunstvoll  versch- 
lungener  Begebenheiten  dar.  O,  diese  prachtigen  Romane  mit 
ihrer  classischen — Unglaubwiirdigkeit !  Diese  herrlichen,  far- 
benreichen  Gebilde — des  Falschen,  unmoglichen,  willkiirlich 
Vorausgesetzten  !  Die  seltenen  Falle  eines  drastischen  Nach- 
eina?iders  greift  im  Grunde  nur  das  Drama  auf.  Sonst  aber — 
lebenslange  Strecken  liegen  ja  zwischen  einer  That  und  ihren 
Foleen  !  Wie  viel  drangt  sich  nicht  zwischen  einem  Schicksal 
hier  und  einem  Schicksal  dort !  Und  Ihr  verbandet  das  alles 
so  rasch  ?  Ihr  warft  das,  was  dazwischen  lag,  sorglos  beiseite  ? 
Der  alte  Roman  that  das.  Er  konnte  niclits  von  dem  brauchen, 
was  zwischen  seinen  willkiirlichen  Motiven  in  der  IMitte  liegt. 
Und  doch  liegt  das  ganze  Leben  dazwischen,  die  zeit,  die  Wahr- 
heit,  die  Wirklichkeit,  die  Wiederspiegelung,  die  Reflexion  aller 


Charles  Scalsfield.  15 

Lichtstrahlen  des  Lebens,  kiirz  Das,  was  einen  Roman,  wenn 
er  eine  Walirhiet  aufstellte,  fast  immer  sogleich  widerlegte  und 
nur  eine  Thatsache  gelten  und  siegen  liess,  die  alte  Wahrheit 
von  einer — unwahren,  ertramnten  Romanenwelt ! 

Nein,  der  neue  Roman  ist  der  Roman  des  Nebeneinander. 
Da  liegt  die  ganze  welt ! — Da  begegnen  sich  Konige  und  Bettler  ! 
— Die  Menschen,  die  zu  einer  erzahlten  Geschichte  gehoren, 
und  die,  die  ihr  ei7ie  widerstrahlte  Bedetiiimg  geben.  Der 
Stumme  redet  da  auch,  auch  der  Abwesende  spielt  mit.  Das, 
was  der  Dichter  sagen,  schildern  will,  ist  oft  nur  Das,  was 
zwischen  zwei  seiner  Schilderungen  als  ein  Drittes,  nur  dem  Horer 
Fiihlbares,  in  Gott  Rtihendes^  in  der  Mitte  liegt.  Nun  fallt  die 
Willkiir  der  erfindung  fort.  Kein  Abschnitt  des  Lebens  mehr, 
der  ganze  runde,  voile  Kreis  liegt  vor  uns ;  der  Dichter  baut 
eine  Welt  oder  stellt  wenigstens  seine  Beleuchtung  der  der  Wirk- 
lichkeit  gegeniiber.  Er  sieht  aus  der  Perspektive  des  in  den 
Liiften  schwebenden  Adlers  herab  und  hat  eine  Weltanschauung^ 
tieu,  eigenthiimlich.  Leider  ist  es  eine  polemische.  Thron  und 
Hiitte,  Markt  und  Wald  sind  zusammengeriickt  und  bekampfen 
sich.  Resultat :  Durch  diese  Behandlung  kann  die  Menschheit 
aus  der  Poesie  wieder  den  Glauben  und  das  Vertrauen  schopfen — 
dass  die  erde  von  eijiejn  und  deniselben  Geiste  regiert  wird. 

Ein  solcher  Versuch,  die  zerstreuten  Lichtstrahlen  des  Lebens 
in  einen  Brennpunkt  zu  sammeln,  das  ist  die  Geschichte,  die  ich 
Dir,  lieber  Leser,  hier  aufgeroUt  habe.  Sie  ist  in  Thatsachen 
und  in  dem  sozusagen  allegorischen  Rahmen  keineswegs  neu,  sie 
ist  es  aber  vielleicht  in  der  Verkniipfung.  Kurz  konnte  sie 
ihrer  Natur  nach  wicht  werden,  denn  um  Millionen  zu  schildern, 
miissen  sich  wenigstens  hundert  Menschen  vor  deinen  Augen 
voriiberdrangen,  p.  iv  f. 

In  den  Unterhaltungen  am  hauslichen  Herd  gab  der  Vorfasser 
vom  Roman  des  Nebeneinander^  deisem  Souffre  Douleur  der  mehr- 
fach  befahrenen  Kritik,  die  nahere  erklarung,  man  wiirde  ihn 
verstehen,  wenn  man  sich  gewisse  Durchschnittszeichnungen 
eines  Bergwerks,  eines  Kreigsschiffs  vergegenwartigen  wollte,  wo 
das   Nebeneinander  existerinde  Leben  von  hundert   Kammern 


1 6  A.  B.  Faust. 

und  Kammercheii,  wo  die  eine  von  der  andern  keine  Einsicht 
hat,  docli  zii  einer  iiberscliauten  Einlieit  sichtbar  wird. 

Whatever  Gutzkow  may  claim  in  regard  to  his  Roman  des 
Nebeneinander  the  idea  was  certainly  not  original  with  him. 
Sixteen  years  earlier  had  appeared  Sealsfield's  novel  der  Virey 
tind  die  Aristokraten^  which  gave  a  birds-eye  view  in  exactly  the 
same  way  as  Gutzkow  describes,  not  of  the  present  condition  of 
Germany,  but  of  Mexico  during  the  revolution  of  1825.  There 
are  brought  before  the  reader's  gaze  numerous  race  elements  and 
castes  struggling  simultaneously  each  in  its  own  way  ;  the  reader 
views  them  as  if  a  cross-section  were  made,  as  in  a  mine  or  a 
vessel,  and  hundreds  of  chambers  were  visible  each  with  its  own 
life.  The  plan  of  Der  I'irey^  the  most  famous  of  Sealsfield's 
novels,  was  reproduced  as  early  as  1840  by  Th.  Miigge  in  his 
Toiiissaint^  already  described  ;  this  very  fact  shows  that  Seals- 
field's  new  type  of  romance  was  regarded  as  worthy  of  imitation. 
His  Stories  of  American  Life  were  constructed  in  a  similar  way, 
as  will  be  seen  from  the  following  letter  which  the  author  wrote 
to  H.  Brockhaus,  in  1854,  for  the  tenth  edition  of  the  Conversa- 
tionslexikon  : 

"  Die  sehr  giinstige  Aufnahine  seiner  Werke  brachte  den 
Verfasser  endlich  zum  Entschluss,  seinen  Lieblingsgedanken 
auszufiihren,  die  V.  St.  namlich  im  nazionalen  oder  hoheren 
Volks-Romane  dargustellen.  Statt  dass  wie  friiher  im  familien- 
geschichtlichen  Schelmen — (oder  wie  er  sonst  heissen  moge) 
Roman, — der  Held  des  Romans  die  Hauptperson  war,  um  den 
sich  die  anderen  Personlichkeiten  im  Rahmen  herumreihten,  ist 
hier  der  Held — wenn  wir  so  sagen  diirfen — das  ganze  Volk  ;  sein 
sociales,  sein  offentliches,  sein  Privatleben,  seine  materiellen, 
politischen,  religiosen  Beziehungen  treten  an  die  stelle  der 
abenteuer,  seine  Vergangenheit,  seine  Zukunft  werden  als  his- 
torische  Gewander  benutzt,  Eiebesscenen  und  Abenteuer  nur  gele- 
gentlich  als  Folic  um  zu  beleben,  hervorzuheben,  angewandt. 
Es  ist  in  deisem  Romangenre,  dem  er  die  Benennung  des  nation- 
alen  oder  hoheren  Volks-Romanes  geben  zu  sollen — glaubt,  dem 
Roman    die    brenteste  Unterlage  gegeben,   durcli    die    derselbe 


Charles  Sealsfield.  17 

zunachst  der  Geschichte  sich  anzunehmen,  eine  wichtige  Seiten- 
quelle  derselben  zu  werden,  benifen  sein  diirfte.  Wohl  ist 
begreiflicher  Weise  vieles  da  zu  thun,  und  er  ist  weit  entfernt 
zu  glauben,  das  er  bereits  das  Volkommene  geliefert,  allein  er 
halt  sich  berechtigt  sich  fiir  den  Griinder  dieses  neuen  und  wie 
er  nicht  bezweifelt  tonangebend  werdenden  Gliedes  der  Romanen- 
familie  erklaren  zu  diirfen,  da  er  seines  wissens  der  Erste  war, 
der  diese  breite  geschichtliche,  nationale  und  sociale  Basis  zu 
Grunde  legte." 

This  letter,  written  in  1854,  a  little  after  Gutzkow's  plan 
was  published,  was  sent  from  New  York  where  Sealsfield  could 
not  have  had  access  to  Gutzkow's  preface.  He  had  possibly 
read  it  before  this,  however,  and  kept  it  in  mind,  wishing  to 
claim  priority  for  his  own  type  of  novel,  which  was  certainly 
conceived  as  early  as  1834,  when  Der  Virey  was  published.  The 
fact  that  Gutzkow's  Zeitroma^i  has  exactly  the  same  plan  of  con- 
struction as  Sealsfield's  Exotischer  Roman^  though  this  has  en- 
tirely escaped  notice,  is  very  important.  It  magnifies  the  service 
rendered  by  the  Exotic  Rotnance  in  the  history  of  German  fiction, 
and  adds  new  lustre  to  the  genius  of  the  founder  of  the  school. 
The  realistic  novel  of  Freytag  and  Spielhagen  necessarily  re- 
quired forerunners  like  Gutzkow  and  Sealsfield.  This  plan  of 
novel  was  especially  popular  because  it  suited  so  well  the  spirit 
of  the  times.  It  attempted  to  present  the  truth  by  an  exhaus- 
tive method,  the  world  was  to  be  viewed  from  all  its  bearings, 
— social,  political  and  religious ;  the  whole  of  human  life  was  to 
be  pictured  at  one  and  the  same  instant  in  all  of  its  complexities. 
The  other  momentarily  attractive  feature  of  the  new  plan  was 
its  hostility  toward  existing  models.  The  individual  was  no 
longer  of  sufficient  interest,  a  whole  people  now  became  the  hero 
of  a  romance.  Of  what  importance  were  the  trials  and  doubts  of 
one  man,  compared  with  the  struggles  and  development  of  a 
whole  race.  The  revolutionary  war  which  in  politics  swept  over 
every  little  German  state  and  city,  had  thus  invaded  German 
literature,  had  forced  upon  German  fiction  a  new  type,  though 
not  a  lasting  one.     The  old  regime  was,  temporarily  at  least. 


i8  A.  B.  Faust. 

overthrown ;  the  monarchs  thus  banished  being  the  hero-novel 
Wilhehn  Meister,  which  had  ruled  over  German  fiction  with  an 
iron  hand  since  1796,  and  with  it  the  hero-romance  of  Walter 
Scott,  which  in  Germany  was  no  less  self-asserting  and 
dictatorial. 

In  this  treacherous  work  Sealsfield  and  Gutzkow  unconsciously 
joined  hands,  and  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  men  of  so  widely 
different  temperaments  were  by  the  presence  of  the  times  forced 
at  last  to  approach  the  same  goal. 

A.  B.  FAUST. 

Wesleyan  University, 
MiDDLETowN,  Conn. 


THEATRUM   CRUCIS   ET   PASSIONIS   DOMINI 
JESU   CHRISTI. 


NACH   EINER   MAIHINGER   HANDSCHRIFT   AUS   DER 
XVII.    JAHRHUNDERT. 


Der  Abdruck  des  nachstehenden  Spieles  gibt  die  Handschrift 
mit  moglichster  Genauigkeit  und  Treue  ohne  alle  Verbesserungs- 
versuche  wieder.  Nicht  einmal  die  Interpunction  wurde  einer 
Anderung  unterworfen.  Auch  glaubte  ich  mich  nicht  berechtigt, 
die  orthographische  Willkiir  und  Ungleichheit,  welche  so  oft 
zu  Tage  tritt,  und  die  Menge  der  Verstosse  gegen  Syntax  durch 
Anderungen  zu  beseitigen,  zumal  da  selten  zu  bestimmen  sein 
mochte,  wo  von  dem  Schreiber  aus  Versehen  und  wo  mit 
Bewusstsein  gefehlt  worden  ist. 

Ich  fand  die  Handschrift  in  einem  Codex  aus  dem  XVII  Jahr- 
hundert  (chartaceus  in  quarto),  der  259  Blatter  zahlt,  von  denen 
190  mit  Predigten  beschrieben  sind.  An  diese  Predigten  schliesst 
sich  ein  Anhang  von  Festspielen  und  Lobgesangen.  Unser 
Festspiel  befindet  sich  auf  Bl.  i90-2ii«,  und  ist  mit  folgenden 
roten  Buchstaben  iiberschrieben  :  "  Theatrum  Crucis  et  Passionis 
Domini  Jesu  Christi."  Die  Handschrift  ist  fliichtig.  Die  Tinte 
erblasst. 

Ob  der  Schreiber  der  Handschrift  auch  der  Verfasser  war,  ist 
ungewiss.  Die  andern  in  demselben  Bande  enthaltenen  Hand- 
schriften  scheinen  auf  verschiedene  Abschreiber  schliessen  zu 
lassen.  Doch  lasst  sich  auch  dariiber  nichts  mit  Bestimmtheit 
ermitteln. 

In  Alemannia  XXIV^  p.  86,  habe  ich  den  Gedanken  geaussert, 
dass  wir  in  dem  Passionsspiel  vielleicht  ein  Product  von  Christian 
Weise  vor  uns  haben.     Seitdem  ich  mich  jedoch  eingehender 


20  Theatrum  Cnicis. 

mit  der  Frage  nach  dem  Verfasser  beschaftigt  habe,  habe  ich 
diesen  Gedanken  wieder  aufgegeben.  Der  in  dem  Passionsspiel 
vorkommende  Dialect  lasst  eher  auf  einen  siiddeutsclien,  auf 
einen  bayrischen  Dicliter  schliessen. 

Manche  Stellen  erscheinen  fast  wie  eine  Ubertragung  aus  einer 
Vorlage.  Trotzdem,  dass  ich  mich  mit  einer  nicht  geringen 
Anzahl  von  Passionsspielen  und  der  Geschichte  ilirer  Entwick- 
liing  vertraut  gemacht  habe,  wage  ich  doch  nicht  mit  Sicherheit 
zu  sagen,  ob  nnd  inwieweit  der  Verfasser  einer  Vorlage  folgte. 
Die  mir  zii  Gebote  stehenden  Passionsspiele  habe  ich  mit  mog- 
lichster  Genaugkeit  mit  der  Maihinger  Handschrift  verglichen 
und  wie  fast  natiirlich  in  verschiedenen  spielen  ahnliche  Stellen 
gefunden,  ohne  jedoch  sagen  zu  diirfen  oder  zu  wollen,  hier  habe 
der  Verfasser  der  Vorlage  gefolgt.  So  viel  scheint  mir  fest 
zu  stehen,  dass  alle  Bearbeiter  der  deutschen  Passionsspiele  bei 
der  Abfassung  eines  deutschen  Textes  verschiedene  geistliche 
Dichtungen  beniitzten  und  zwar  derart,  dass  man  sagen  muss, 
sie  sind  grossenteils  auf  Grundlage  dieser  Dichtungen  entstanden. 
Vielleicht  hat  unser  Verfasser  Stellen  aus  dem  Lateinischen 
iibertragen,  noch  wahrscheinlicher  aber  aus  deutschen  Fest- 
spielen  geschopft. 

Die  Bildungsstufe  des  Verfassers  lasst  uns  kaum  in  Zweifel. 
Die  lateinischen  Uberschriften,  die  gauze  Behandlung  des  Inhal- 
tes  lassen  an  einen  Geistlichen  denken.  Eine  andere  Frage  ist 
die,  ob  der  Verfasser  ein  Katholik  oder  ein  Protestant  gewesen. 
Bei  den  meisten  Passionsspielen  lasst  sich  sofort  mit  Bestimmt- 
heit  der  Verfasser  erkennen.  In  einer  Reihe  von  geistlichen 
Schauspielen  ist  der  katholische  Glaube  durch  verschiedene 
allegorische  Personen  vertreten  wie  z.  B.  in  den  Denkmalern 
aus  "ijrdingen  vom  Jahre  167 1,  1682  and  1691.  Ein  Engel  als 
Prolosf  verkiindet  wie  Christus  grewarnt  hat  vor  falschen  Pro- 
pheten.  Es  werden  Calvin  und  Luther  als  solche  namhaft 
gemacht.* 

Unter  den  Katholiken  und  besonders  in  Bayern  hatte  sich  das 


*Vgl.  E.  V^'iV^&n:  Geschichte  der  geistlichen  Spiele  in  Deutschland.  Gottingen, 
1872,  p.  142  flf. 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  2i 

Passionsspiel  besonderer  Pflege  zu  erfreuen.  Denken  wir  an 
Oberammergau,  wo  mindestens  seit  dem  30  jahrigen  Kriege  die 
meist  nur  alle  zehn  Jahre  wiederholten  Auffiihrungen  mit  Ernst 
und  Eifer  betrieben  wurden.* 

Es  ist  interessant,  das  Verhaltnis  der  Confessionen  zum  geist- 
lichen  Schauspiel  zu  beobachten.  Die  eigentliche  Pflege  der 
Passionsspiele  war  in  der  katholischen  Kirche  entstanden  und 
begann  genau  genommen  erst  im  XV.  Jahrhundert,  als  die  Ent- 
wicklung  der  Osterspiele  ihren  Abschluss  gefunden.  f 

Die  Entwickelung  derselben  voUzog  sich  wie  bei  den  Oster- 
feiern  und  Osterspielen :  sie  war  erst  lateinisch,  dann  lateinisch- 
deutsch,  schliesslich  gaiiz  deutsch.  Dem  Umstande  ists  wohl 
auch  zuzuschrieben,  dass  sich  nichts  bestimmtes  dariiber  ermit- 
teln  lasst,  ob  und  inwieweit  unser  Verfasser  einer  Vorlage  folgte. 

Dass  unserem  Festspiel  in  der  Maihinger  Handschrift  ein 
zweites  Festspiel  folgt,  scheint  mir  von  Bedeutung  zu  sein  und 
nicht  ganz  ohne  Wert  bei  der  Frage,  ob  der  Verfasser  katho- 
lisch  oder  protestantisch  gewesen.  Das  zweite  F'estspiel  handelt 
von  den  drei  Weisen  aus  dem  Morgenland  und  dem  bethle- 
hemitischen  Kindermord,  ein  Thema,  das  sich  unter  Protestanten 
und  Katholiken  gleicher  Beliebtheit  erfreute.  Dazu  kommt 
noch,  dass  beide  Festspiele  in  das  siebenzehnte  Jahrhundert  fallen 
und  beide  den  gleichen  Dialect  verraten. — Um  die  Mitte  des 
XVII.  Jahrhunderts  hat  Johann  Klaj  (Clajus)  zu  Niirnberg  in 
der  Charwoche  den  leidenden  Christus,  zu  Michaelis  den  Engel- 
und  Drachenstreit  auffiihren  lassen.|  Er  hat  selbst  nach  been- 
digtem  Gottesdienste  seine  eigenen  Dichtungen  vorgetragen, 
und  in  einigen  Stiicken  auch  Sanger  und  Musiker  als  Chore  mit- 
wirken  lassen.  Derartig  sind  sein  "  Weyhnacht  Lied  "  seine 
"Aufferstehung  Jesu  Christi,"  etc.|| 

Haben  wir  vielleicht  auch  kein  Recht  an  Klaj  als  den  Ver- 


*  Vgl.  Clarus  :  Das  Passionspiel  in  Oberammergau    Miinchen  i860. 
'   fVgl.   L.   Wirth:  Die  Oster  Passionspiele  bis  zum  16  Jahrhundert.     Halle 
1889;  und  Milchsack:  Die  Oster  und  Passionsspiele  I.     Wolfenbiittel,  1880. 

X  Vgl.  Alt,  Theatre  und  Kirche. 

II  Vgl.  W.  Wackernagel :  Deutsche  Litteraturgeschichte,  II,  22  f. 


22  Theairum  Cruets. 

fasser  des  Passionsspieles  zii  denken,  so  lasst  sich  der  Gedanke 
an  ihn  doch  kaum  erwehren  und  vielleicht  auch  einigermassen 
entschuldigen,  wenn  auch  nicht  gerade  rechtfertigen.  Dem 
Inhalte  nach  konnte  der  Text  ebenswohl  von  einem  Protestan- 
ten  als  von  einem  Katholiken  verfasst  sein.  Der  kirchliche 
Character  ist  beibehalten  und  dogmatische  Richtigkeit  its  vor- 
wiegend.  Dazu  kommt  noch,  dass  ich  glaubte,  einige  sachsische 
Ausdriicke  entdeckt  zu  haben.  Zum  Beispiel :  beederseits^  zween^ 
warst  (anstatt  wirst),  werds  (-wirds),  be^i^  etc.  Der  Mehrzahl 
nach  sind  die  dialectischen  Eigenheiten  bayrisch.  Diese  Um- 
stande  diirften  vielleicht  gestatten  an  Klaj  zu  denken.  Er  als 
geborener  Meissener  hat  gelegentlich  seinen  sachsischen  Dialect 
gebraucht.  Durch  seinen  langen  Aufenthalt  in  der  Stadt  Niirn- 
berg  hat  er  den  bayrischen  Dialect  gelernt  und  wie  selbst  ver- 
standlich  auch  gerne  in  seinen  Dichtungen  angewandt.  Doch 
ich  bin  nicht  im  Stande,  meine  Vermutung  weiter  zu  begriinden 
oder  zu  erharten.  Ich  bin  auch  weit  entfernt,  vollen  Anspruch 
auf  die  Richtigkeit  meiner  Vermutung  zu  machen. 

Ob  unser  Festspiel  der  Verfallzeit  angehort,  wird  man  wohl 
unentschieden  lassen  miissen.  Ich  habe  in  den  Passionsspielen 
noch  nie  eine  besondere  dichterische  Leistung  erkennen  konnen. 
Dass  wir  im  XVII  Jahrhundert  einen  Verfall  der  Passionsspiele 
zu  verzeichnen  haben,  ist  wohl  kaum  in  Abrede  zu  stellen. 
Welchem  Umstand  und  welcher  von  beiden  Confessionen 
der  Verfall  zuzurechnen  ist,  lasst  sich  wohl  nicht  so  leicht 
bestimmen. 

Der  deutsche  Protestantismus  hat  sich  allerdings  nicht  von 
vornherein  entschieden  gegen  die  Dramatisierung  und  AufiFLih- 
rung  biblischer  Stoffe  ausgesprochen.  *  Auf  protestantischem 
Boden  lassen  sich  noch  bis  zum  XVII  Jahrhundert  Nachklange 
von  solchen  Passionsspielen  verfolgen.  Die  Passionsspiele 
waren  ja  von  Anfang  an  selbstandige  Stiicke,  die  nicht  in  den 
katholischen  kirchlichen  Ritus  eingefiigt  werden  konnten  wie 
z.   B.  die  Osterfeiern,  die  urspriinglich  enien    Bestandteil  des 


*  Vgl.  Wilken,  Geschichte  der  geistlichen  Spiele  in  Deutschland.     Gottingen, 
1872.     p.  261. 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  23 

Rituale,  des  Gottesdientes  bildeten  und  erst  in  der  Form  der 
Osterspiele  selbstandig  auftreten.  Die  Passionsspiele  woUen  ja 
nicht  ein  einzelnes  Ereignis  aus  dem  Leben  Christi  darstellen, 
schliessen  sich  deshalb  audi  nicht  an  ein  bestimmtes  kirchliches 
Fest  an,  sondern  sie  wollen  alle  wichtigen  Ereignisse  aus  deni 
Leben  und  Wirken  Christi  in  dramatischer  Form  zur  Anschau- 
ung  bringen.  So  wurden  in  Berlin  bis  zum  Verbot  des  Churfiir- 
sten  Joachim  Friedrich  von  Jahre  1598  im  Hauschen  am  Dom 
am  Palmsonntag  die  Passion,  am  griinen  Donnerstag  das  Fuss- 
waschen,  die  Grablegung  am  Charfreitag,  das  Laufen  der  Jiinger 
an  Ostem  dargestallt. 

Im  katholischen  Deutschland  begann  man  wohl  erst  im  18 
Jahrhundert,  dem  geistlichen  Spiel  die  Existenz  streitig  zu 
machen.  Es  ist  von  Clarus  fiir  Bayern,*  von  Pichler  fiir  Tyrolf 
im  Einzelnen  nachgewiesen,  wie  man  teils  mit  Recht  teils  aus 
iibertriebenem  Bildungsdiinkel  die  Reste  mittelalterlicher  Spiel- 
tradition  iiberall  zu  vertilgen  bestrebt  war. 

Da  unserem  Passionsspiel  eine  "  Ordo  processionis,"  welche  die 
zum  Auftreten  bestimmte  Personen  anzeigte,  nicht  beigegeben 
ist,  konnte  man  fast  in  Zweifel  dariiber  sein,  ob  es  zur  Auffiih- 
rung  bestimmt  war.  Die  Zahl  der  Darsteller  ist  auf  alle  Falle 
eine  sehr  geringe.  Man  vergl.  dazu  auch  andere  Passionsspiele 
aus  dem  XVII.  Jahrhundert.  J 

Uberschriften  wie  :  "  Der  Hauptmann  ruefft  aus."  "  Maria 
dicit "  etc.  scheinen  darauf  hinzudeuten,  dass  es  zu  einem 
Schuldrama  bestimmt  war.  Die  Auffiihrung  des  Stiickes  bestand 
vielleicht  nicht  so  sehr  im  Handeln  als  vielmehr  im  Hersagen 
stille  stehender  Personen. 

Was  die  metrischen  Verhaltnisse  betrifft,  so  ist  nur  wenig 
hinzuzufiigen.  Eine  Reihe  von  Fehlern  im  Versmasse  wird 
man  wohl  auf  Rechnung  des  Abschreibers  bringen  miissen.  Der 
Gebrauch  der  Reimpaare  behauptet  sich  durch  das  ganze  Spiel, 
wenn  auch  nicht  immer  in  sorgfaltig  reinlicher  Ausiibung. 
Ungleiche  und  schlechte  Reime  diirften  sich  vielleicht  auf  Grund 
der  dialectischen  Eigenheiten  erklaren  lassen. 


*  Clarus,  das  Passionsspiel  in  Oberantmergau,  p.  41  ff,  p.  57  ff. 

t  Pichler,  Das  Drama  des  Mittelalters  in  Tyrol.,  p.  72  flf. 

I  A.  Rein,  Vier  geistliche  Spiele  des  17.  Jahrhunderts.     Crefeld,  1853. 


24  Theatrum  Crucis. 

THEATRUM   CRUCIS   ET   PASSIONIS   DOMINI 
JESU   CHRISTI. 

Prima  Classis. 


HAUPTMANN   RUEFFT  AUSS. 

Nun  hort  mier  yezundt  alle  zue, 
Was  Ich  Euch  hier  verkhiinden  thue, 
Sey  gleich  Burger,  auch  andere  sambt, 
Die  kommen  her  auss  frembdem  Land, 
Der  Edel  Pontius  Pilatus  genannt, 
Obrister  Richter  diser  Land 
Dem  Christus  worden  fiirgestellt 
Ein  ernstlich  Urthail  hat  gefallt 
Dass  Christus  ward  hinauss  gefuert 
Ans  ort,  so  Schedelstatt  genannt  wirdt, 
Daselbsten  zue  creuzigen  Ihn, 
Auf  dass  Er  vor  unss  komm  hin, 
Weil  Er  vor  kurger  Zeit  verbott 
Dem  Kayser  z'geben  den  Tribut 
Die  weil  er  auch  zue  allerhand. 
Aufrur  gemacht  in  diesem  Land. 

JUDAS    ISCARIOTH, 

Was  hab  Ich  hie  an  disem  orth 
Fiir  Wunder  seHgenn  Zeittung  gehort, 
Wie  macht  sye  mier  so  machtig  haiss, 
Sye  treibt  mier  auss  den  hechten  Schwaiss, 
Es  nembt  mir  mein  Verstand  und  sinn, 
Ich  weiss  schier  nimmer  wo  ich  bin, 
Wie  krenkht  es  inn  dem  Herzen  mich 
O  das  hallt  hatt  geschwiegen  Ich. 
Mein  lieber  Gsell  wie  steht  die  Sach  ? 
Was  wird  drauss  werden  hindennach  ? 
1st  es  denn  kommen  noch  darzue  ? 
Das  man  mein  Meister  creuzigen  thue  ? 

SOLDAT. 

Ja  mein  Gsell  anderst  ist  nit  dran. 
Die  schuld  ist  dein,  die  muest  du  han 


R   G.   G.  Schmidt.  25 

Dann  du  den  selbst  verrhaten  hast 
Und  dier  auffgladen  solchen  Last, 
Ich  nenne  mit  die  ganze  Wellt, 
Und  all  derselben  guet  und  gellt, 
Dass  ich  sollt  sein  an  Deiner  statt, 
Unnd  hatt  begangen  solche  That. 

jiJDAS. 

O  wehe  o  wehe,  was  hab  Ich  than, 
Das  Ich  mein  Herrn  verratlien  han, 
Ich  muess  bekhennen,  Er  ist  gueth, 
Er  ist  yhe  ein  unschuldiges  Bluet, 
Der  Geytz  hatt  mich  genommen  ein, 
Yetzt  thuen  die  Juden  lachen  mein. 
Der  Teufel  hatt  mich  zue  Ihn  gefurrt, 
Drum  Ich  zue  Spott  und  Schand  wirdt 
O  schnodes  gellt,  warst  widerumb  hin, 
Wie  hab  Ich  dein  so  schlechten  gwin, 
Ich  will  dich  nit,  gehe  hin  von  mier. 
Den  Fluech  so  thue  Ich  wiinschen  dier. 

SOLDAT. 

Ist  dier  das  gellt  verleidet  schon. 

So  will  ich  nichts  mit  zue  schaffen  han, 

Es  costet  so  vil  theures  Bluet, 

Darob  mier  billich  grausen  thuet, 

Weils  d'hohe  Priester  geben  her 

So  gib  Ich  Ihnen  diese  Lehr, 

Sye  nemmen  solliches  widerumb  an. 

Das  werdens  wissen  zbrauchen  schon, 

Gehe  hin,  mein  Junge  und  stells  Ihn  zue, 

Bei  diesem  Gellt  ist  wenig  Rhue, 

Hat  Judas  d'suppen  gsotten  wol 

Dieselb  Er  selbst  en  fressen  soli. 

JUDAS. 

Verfluecht  sey  der  tag  und  die  Nacht, 
So  mich  hatt  in  die  Wellt  gebracht, 
Ja  ich  sag  es  nochmal  guet  rund, 
Verfluecht  sey  die  yhenige  stund. 


26  Theatriun  Cruets. 

Do  Ich,  armer,  vor  ettlich  Jaar, 
In  Muetter  Leib  empfangen  war, 
Verflucht  Ihr  hohe  Preister  all, 
Ihr  habt  mich  bracht  inn  disen  Fall, 
Das  hatt  gemacht  Euer  Gleissnerey, 
Euer  falschheit  und  betrugerey, 
Ein  speckh  habt  Ihr  auf  d'  Fallen  glegt, 
Und  mich  mit  Euren  gellt  bewogt, 
Yezund  do  bin  Ich  gfangen  schon. 
Wass  neues  Ich  dannoch  fangen  an  ? 
Kain  Trost  auff  Erden  ich  mer  hab 
Wo  Ich  hinkhoiii,  bin  ich  schab  ab. 

ANGELUS. 

Jude,  thue  nit  verzweiflen  gar, 
Nimm  deines  Herren  Todes  wahr, 
1st  er  doch  allzeit  gwest  beraitt, 
Nach  seiner  grossen  gultigkheit 
Zue  nemmen  an  der  Siindel  vil, 
Der  sich  nur  zu  im  kheren  will, 
Erinnre  dich  zue  diser  Frist, 
Deines  Lieben  herrn  Jesu  Christ, 
Sein  Lieb  ist  gross,  hat  gar  kein  grund, 
Zue  Ihm  vertueg  dich  dieser  stund, 
Berheu  auss  Herzen  deine  siind, 
So  wirst  ein  Trost  empfinden  gschwind. 

JUDAS. 

Mein  Bosshait  ist  so  gross  und  schwar, 
Allss  Gottes  giiette  ymmermehr, 
Vil  hundert  schwarer  ist  mein  schuld, 
Allss  das  Ich  khiind  verlangen  Huld. 

ANGULUS. 
Jiida,  do  sey  Gott  yrner  vor, 
Dein  wortt  seind  falsch  und  nimmer  war, 
Hast  nit  von  Christo  selbst  gehbrt, 
Sobald  der  Siinder  sich  bekhort, 
Das  bey  der  ganzen  Engelschar, 
Ward  angestellt  ein  Jubel  Jahr, 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  27 

Dann  aller  Sunder  zehren  sein, 
Denn  Engeln  alls  der  beste  wein, 
Dess  Herren  lesu  Giietigkhait, 
Thuet  iibertreffen  lang  und  weit 
All  seine  Werkh,  nichts  ist  Ihr  gleich, 
Auf  Erden  und  im  Himmelreich, 
Dein  Tod,  der  Bose  feind  erfindt, 
Auff  das  er  moge  desto  gschwind, 
Versenckhen  vil  der  armen  Seel, 
Hinab  biss  in  die  tiefste  Holl. 
Derhalb  volg  meinem  theuren  Rath, 
Lass  rheuen  Dich  Dein  missethat, 
Dem  Herren  lesu  fall  zue  Fuess 
Und  thue  darauff  ein  wahre  Buess 
Damit  schafst  Deiner  Seele  ein  Rhue, 
Gott  geb  dier  seine  gnade  darzue. 

jiJDAS. 

Wie  ist  mier  nur  an  yezt  zuhand, 

Ich  glaub  mich  Brenn  der  hollisch  brand, 

Ein  Wurm  in  meinem  Herzen  nagt, 

Und  mich  so  wber  d'massen  plagt. 

Wie  druckht  Er  mich,  wie  brennt  Er  mich, 

Kain  rast  noch  rhue  mach  haben  Ich, 

Ein  andres  muess  Ich  fangen  an, 

Ich  kan  nit  bleiben  muess  davon. 

ANGELUS. 

O  Judas  hallt  dich  wol  in  Huett 
Bedenckh  dess  Herrn  theures  Bluet, 
Betracht  sein  bitter  Leyden  schwar, 
Das  nit  dein  Seel  verlorn  war. 

JUDAS. 

Ey  Ich  will  mich  selbst  ertrenckhen 
Oder  an  negsten  Baum  henckhen. 

ANGELUS. 

Judas,  Ich  bitt  durchs  Jiingst  Gericht, 
Schlags  auss  dem  Herzen  Thu  es  nicht, 


28  Theatriun  Criicis. 

Ich  bitt  durch  Jesu  Giiettigkhait, 
Ich  bitt  durch  sein  Barmherzigkhait 
Ach  Judas  mein,  stehe  still  und  hor, 
Ich  durchs  ganze  himmlisch  Heer, 
Ich  bitt  dich  durch  die  Seele  dein, 
Sonst  khombt  sye  Jnn  die  Ewig  Pein. 
O  grausam  blindthait,  unerhort 
O  Judisch  hercz,  wie  bist  so  hort, 
O  arme  Seel,  erbarm  es  Gott, 
Das  sy  sich  gibt  Jnn  solche  noht. 
An  Gottes  gnad  verzweiflen  thuet, 
Und  wirdt  zue  thail  der  hoUe  gluet, 
Lasst  Euchs,  Ir  lieben  Christen  mein, 
Hiemit  ein  threue  warnung  sein. 
Stellt  nit  zu  vil  nach  schnodem  guet 
Das  maniche  Seel  verblenden  thuet, 
Dem  bosen  Feind  thraut  nit  zue  sehr, 
Der  bosen  wellt  glaubt  nimmermehr, 
Fiirchtet  Gott,  haltet  seine  gebott, 
Das  wirdt  Euch  nuczen  hie  und  dortt. 

CHRISTUS. 
Sub  07iere  crucis  cadens  in  terrani.  oral  Patrem  caele- 
stem  modo  orationis  fadae  in  monte  olivarutn. 

O  lieber  Vatter,  threuer  Gott, 

Sieh  an  mein  Elend  und  mein  noth, 

Mein  Zueflucht,  mein  Vatterlichs  Herz, 

Wie  gross  und  scwar  ist  diser  Schmerz, 

Wie  gross  die  Marter  und  die  Pein, 

Ach  allerliebster  Vatter  mein, 

Das  grausam  Creuz  mich  schreckhen  thuet, 

Dessgleichen  auch  mein  aigens  Bluet, 

Ach  Vatter  dise  Hamerschlag, 

Zu  mitleiden  dein  herz  bewog, 

Mein  scwacher  Leib  erschrickht  darab, 

Inn  soUicher  nott  kain  Throst  ich  hab, 

Du  sichest  dass  Ich  verlassen  bin, 

Mein  Jiinger  sind  geflochen  hin, 

SoUt  ich  erst,  lieber  Vatter  mein, 

Von  dier  auch  gar  verlassen  sein, 


F.   G.    G.  Schmidt.  29 

Wie  maniche  hofften  starckh  auf  dich, 
Du  halffst  Ihn  auch  so  machtigklich, 
Du  raichtest  Jhn  dein  starkhe  Hand, 
Und  rettest  sye  aus  aller  schand 
Jsts  nun  O  Vatter  moglich  dier, 
So  nimm  den  Kelch  auch  von  mier, 
Yedoch  O  Liebster  Vatter  mein, 
So  ward  erfiillt  der  Wille  dein. 

ANGELUS. 

Co?ifortans. 
Ach  du  mein  edler  Fiirst  und  Herr, 
Wie  bist  du  doch  betriibt  so  sehr  ? 
Herr  lesu  Christ,  Du  Himmels  Cron, 
Was  schmerzen  wirdt  dier  angethon  ? 
Ach  du  schwache  menschlich  Natur, 
Gesegnet  iiber  alle  Creatur. 
Dich  hatt  des  hochsten  Crafft  fermiert 
Mit  alien  gnaden  hoch  geziert, 
Dier  ist  der  aller  grosste  streitt 
Jnn  diser  stunde  zue  beraith, 
Ein  solliches  werkh  die  gottlich  Thatt, 
Auff  diese  Weyss  beschlossen  hat, 
AufF  das  der  Engeln  Zal  erfiillt, 
Dess  Vatters  Zorn  ward  gestillt. 
Die  gottlich  Ehr  und  Herrlichkheit 
Durch  dich  auch  werde  aussgebraith, 
Darumben  wirdt  Dein  Name  werth, 
Belobt  Im  Himmel  und  aufF  Erd. 
Dessgleich  das  arme  menschlich  gschlecht, 
Durch  dich  auch  widrbracht  zu  Recht, 
O  Jesu  hochste  siiessigkhait, 
Ist  doch  dein  geist  durch  auss  berait, 
O  Menschhait  Christi,  tugendhafift 
So  nemm  an  dich  die  Mannlich  Crafft, 
Gehe  hin,  und  streit  den  grossen  krieg, 
Dass  du  erlangst  den  grossen  Sieg, 
Jnn  Deiner  schwachheit  triumphirst 
Mit  deinem  Bleut  die  Himmel  zierst, 
Darauf  warst  du  in  kurzer  Zeit, 


30  Theairum  Cruets. 

Herrlich  regiern  Jnn  Ewigkheit. 

Das  Creuz  wirdt  sein  das  gulden  schwert, 

Damit  der  Feind  erschlagen  werd, 

Ess  ist  O  Herr,  Dein  Pilgerstab, 

Der  bose  Feind  erschrickht  darab. 

Auff  diech  o  trost  Jnn  Israel, 

Verhoffen  der  Alltvatter  Seel, 

Lass  dier  o  edler  Schopfer  mein 

Das  menschlich  gschlecht  bevolchen  sein, 

All  Engel  werden  loben  dich 

Vil  Thausent  Seelen  freyn  sich. 

Salvator. 
O  du  getreuer  Engel  fromb 
Mein  Menschhait  danckht  dier  hoch  darumb, 
Das  du  in  Ihren  Leyden  schwar, 
Zu  sterckhen  hye  bist  khommen  her, 
O  liebster  Vater,  wie  Du  willt, 
Durch  mich  so  werd  die  Schrifft  erfullt, 
Weil  khommen  her  mein  Stund  und  Zeit, 
So  ist  mein  Geist  auch  Schon  beraith, 
O  aller  liebster  Vatter  mein. 
Den  Lieb  so  gib  Ich  willig  drein, 
Darumben  werd  verbracht  an  mier, 
Wie  das  mein  Vatter  gfallig  dier, 
Wie  diss  der  Menschen  Siind  verschuldt, 
Mein  Leib  bezallt  es  mit  Gedultt, 
Fiir  diess  gib  Ich  leib  und  bluet, 
Die  lieb  ein  solliches  alles  thuet, 
Mein  liebes  Creuz  khomm  her  zu  mier, 
Dann  Ich  bin  schon  versprochen  dier, 
Mein  Herz  erschrickt  an  dier  nit  mehr, 
Mein  Herz  nach  dier  verlanget  sehr, 
Ich  bin  der  HUrt,  du  bist  der  Stab, 
Mit  dier  ich  jezt  zue  suchen  hab 
Das  Schaflein  so  verlorn  war. 
Das  wiederumb  kam  zuer  Engel  Schaar, 
Komm  her  mit  mir  biss  auf  den  Plan, 
Dem  Feind  ein  schlacht  zu  bieten  an, 
Auff  das  sein  Hoffart  werde  gefellt, 
Und  Gott  der  Herr  zue  frieden  gestellt, 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  31 

Secunda  Classis. 


JOANNES. 

O  threuer  Gott,  O  ewiger  Gott, 
Ach  herzen  Layd  der  grossen  noth, 
Ach  du  getreuer  Maister  mein 
Sollst  du  zum  todt  verurthailt  sein  ? 
Wie  haben  dier  die  Juden  schon, 
So  grosses  Leyden  angethon, 
O  Jesu  mein  wie  grimmigklich, 
Jm  Garten  habens  gfangen  dich, 
Wie  hast  o  Herr  so  milltigkleich, 
Eingenommen  so  vil  schlag  und  straich  ? 
Und  dich  die  ganze  nacht  geplagt, 
O  Gott  dier  seys  im  Himmel  klagt, 
1st  noch  nit  gnueg  der  Angst  und  noth 
Must  erst  ausstehen  den  schmahlichen  tod, 
Ach  der  betriibten  Muetter  dein, 
Wass  kummer  muess  sye  nemmen  ein. 
Ach  wie  wirdt  Ihr  Muetterhch  herz, 
Verwundet  sein  mit  so  vil  schmercz. 
Was  muess  ich  aber  yetzundt  thun, 
Soil  Ichs  Mariae  zaigen  an 
Soil  Ich  Ihr  sollich  bottschaft  bringen, 
Ach  mein  Herz  thuet  mir  zerspringen, 
Ach  gebt  mir  doch  ein  threuen  rath, 
Inn  diser  meiner  hechsten  noth. 

MAGDALENA   SAMBT    DER   MARTHA. 

Ein  stimm  vernemmen  wier  herein, 
Ich  glaub  es  werds  Joannes  sein, 
Ach  Gott,  ach  Gott  die  schware  zeitt, 
Wie  stehn  wir  Jnn  so  grossem  Layd, 
Weyl  Er  von  unss  ist  auss  so  lang, 
Wie  layden  wier  so  grossen  Zwang, 
Do  khombt  Er  eben  zue  unss  her. 
Joannes,  ach  wie  bangt  unss  so  sehr. 


32 


Theatru7n  Cruets. 

MARTHA. 

Ach  Gott  die  Sachen  stehn  nit  wol, 
Dein  Augen  seind  der  Zehren  vol. 
Vor  schmerzen  kannst  du  reden  nit, 
Ach  sag,  umb  Gottes  willen,  Ich  bitt, 
Wie  es  doch  an  yezt  beschaffen  ist, 
Umb  unnsern  Herrn  Jesum  Christ. 

JOHANNES. 

Ach  Schwester  niein,  erbarm  es  Gott, 
Wie  bin  Ich  so  thraurig  Gott, 
O  wehe  meins  Herrn  Jesu  Christ, 
Zum  Todt  Er  schon  verurthailt  ist. 
Das  Creuz  ist  Ihm  schon  aufgelegt, 
Ach  Gott  wie  hart  Ers  auff  Ihm  tragt, 
Wie  mags  dann  urn  Maria  stohn  ? 
Wie  mues  Ich  Ihr  dass  zaigen  an? 
Ach  es  soUte  bald  geschehen 
Will  sy  Ihn  noch  Lebendig  sehen. 

MAGDALENA. 

Ach  die  betriebte  thraurige  Stund, 
O  Jesu  du  vil  siiesser  Mund, 
O  du  threuer  Liebhaber  mein, 
Sollt  du  zum  Tod  verurthailt  sein  ? 
O  Jesu  mein,  Erloser  zart 
Hab  ich  so  manches  siiesses  Wort, 
Vernommen  offt  so  maniche  Stund, 
Auss  deinem  honigsiiessen  Mund, 
Nun  ist  mein  Hoffnung  gfallen  schon, 
Est  ist  vmb  mich  arm  siinderin  zthuon. 

MARTHA. 

Ach  Jesu,  Liebster  Herr  mein, 
Ach  der  Betriebten  Muetter  sein, 
Wie  wirdt  sye  sein  Jnn  solicher  noth, 
Sye  ist  ohn  daz  schier  halber  tod. 
Ach  wie  ist  Ihr  Jungfraiilich  herz 
Erfullet  schon  mit  sovil  schmerz? 
Wiir  woUen  ey lends  zue  Ihr  gohn, 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  33 

Das  grosse  Layd  Ihr  zaigen  an, 
Sye  hatt  ohn  das  auff  dich  gevart, 
Ach  der  schmerzlichen  Pilgerfahrt, 
O  Maria  nun  storkh  dich  Gott 
Inn  diser  deiner  grossten  Noth. 

MARIA. 

Egrediendo  in  publicum  cu{in)  comitatu,  dicit. 

Ach  Gott  Vatter,  nun  sey  dirs  clagt, 

Was  thraurig  Bottschaft  wird  mir  gsagt. 

Von  Jesu  meinem  liebsten  Sohn, 

Wie  es  Thue  mit  Ihm  so  laydig  stohn, 

Wie  er  so  iibel  ward  tractiert, 

Ganz  schmahlich  zu  den  Richtern  gfiiert, 

Ja  schandlich  gschlagen  manicherley, 

Und  gar  zum  Tod  verurthailt  sey, 

O  mein  Sohn,  mein  Sohn,  meins  Herzens  freyd 

Mein  Hoffnung  trost  in  allem  Leyd, 

Sollt  Du  mier  sein  genommen  hin? 

Soil  Ich  gerathen  dein  forthin  ? 

Soil  denn  lesum  verlieren  Ich  ? 

Wer  wirdt,  ach  lesum  Trosten  mich? 

Ach  du  mein  Schaz  mein  Liebstes  Kind ; 

Was  hast  begangen  doch  fiir  SUnd  ? 

Was  nembt  Ihr  Juden  hie  in  Sinn? 

Unschuldiges  Bluet  zue  Richter  hin  ? 

O  greulichs  Volckh,  so  gar  verkhert, 

Wer  hat  dich  all  so  iibel  glert, 

Fiir  solHch  empfangne  Gnad  und  Gab  ? 

Auff  dise  weyss  zue  danckhen  ab  ? 

TrcEtnissa  tuba. 

RIJEFFT   DER    HAUPTMANN  ZUM  ANDERN 
MAL   AUSS. 

Nun  stehet  still  und  hort  mich  an, 
Sey  wer  do  woll,  weib  oder  Mann, 
Pontius  Pilatus  wolgeboren, 
Zum  Landpfleger  auserkhoren. 


34  Theatrum  Crucis. 

Hatt  mit  seiner  Urthail  erkhennt, 
Das  Christus,  den  man  Jesus  nennt, 
An  Heut  gecreuzigt  werden, 
Denn  Er  den  Tod  verschuld  gar  wohl, 
Weil  Er  dem  Khayser  griffen  ein, 
Und  wollt  der  Juden  Konig  sein. 


MARIA. 

Cum  coniiiatu  i?iterveniefis  siibsistit  quasi  in  deliqnimn 

cadens.     Quant  Joannes  alloquitur. 

JOANNES. 

Nnn  sey  getrost  du  thraurigs  Herz, 
Gott  Stehe  unss  bey  in  unserem  schmerz, 
O  Muetter,  das  dich  Gott  behiJet, 
Nemm  an  Maria  ein  starkhes  Gemiiet, 
Weyl  du  zu  der  betriibten  Zeit, 
Muest  iiberstehn  so  schwarn  streit, 
O  Maria,  bewahr  dich  Gott, 
Und  sterkhe  dich  in  diser  Noth, 
Wie  vil  hast  als  ein  Muetter  threu, 
Besterkht  in  schmerzen  mannicherley  ? 
Nun  Leyd  doch  lesus  ohne  schuld. 
Nemms  an,  o  quelte  mit  gedult, 
Jesu  dein  allerliebster  Sohn, 
Wirdt  volgen  drauff  die  hochste  cron, 
Darzu,  wils  Gott,  daz  Ewig  heyl, 
Unnss  werden  auch  all  sein  zu  thayl. 

MARIA. 

Resumit. 

Amen  Amen  daz  werde  wahr, 
Darzue  helff  unss  die  Engel  Schaar, 
O  Jesu  Christ,  du  Ewigs  vvordt, 
Vil  gnad,  daz  Ich  mog  khomen  fortt, 
Gib  sterkh  dass  Ich  dich  suechen  mog, 
Und  dier  in  deiner  schwachheit  pfleg. 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  35 

MARIA. 

Diiin  par[^v']7wi  siibsistit.     Christus  Is.  sub  gravi  cruce 
intervenit,  ita  plangit. 

Ach  Gott  Vatter  Jns  Himmels  thron, 
Ach  Gott  Vatter  Jnns  Himmels  thron, 
O  Jesu  Christ,  mein  Liebster  Sohn, 
Ach  du  mein  khiindlichs  Liebhchs  Herz 
Was  hor  und  siehe  Ich  do  mit  Schmerz, 
Du  hochste  Cron,  und  Engel  Zier, 
Sollt  du  allso  begegnen  mier  ? 
Ach  Hebster  Sohn,  ach  sag  mier  nur, 
Wo  ist  doch  solHche  Creatur  ? 
Die  dier  alss  Ihrem  Schopfer  hoch, 
Darff  fiiegen  zu  im  solche  schmach, 
O  hartte  scharpfe,  Dome  Cron, 
Wass  darffst  Du  dich  so  undrstohn, 
Zue  stechen  dieses  Heyhgs  haupt, 
Nun  bin  ich  alles  trosts  beraubt, 
O  Ihr  Himmel,  nun  sechet  zue, 
Wass  sich  allhie  begeben  thue, 
Sich  an  himmlischer  Vatter  mein, 
Den  ausserwalten  Weinberg  Dein, 
Den  du  mit  Deiner  Hand  erbaut, 
Und  mir  armen  Dienerin  vertraut, 
Die  wilde  Thier  seind  khomen  drein, 
Ess  wuelen  drinn  die  wilde  Schwein, 
Dein  Bluet  vergiessen  sye,  o  Herr, 
Allss  wenn  es  nur  ein  Wasser  war, 
O  Jerusalem,  o  Jerusalem, 
Wie  warest  Gott  so  angenem, 
Wie  hat  dir  mein  geliebter  Sohn, 
So  viel  gnad  und  guotes  gethan. 
Ist  das  die  widergelltung  dein  ? 
Das  du  Ihm  nimmst  das  Leben  sein  ? 
Ach  lesu  liebster  Sohne  mein, 
Jsts  nit  wider  den  Willen  dein, 
Lass  die  Gnad  widerfahren  mier, 
Dass  ich  an  yezt  auch  sterb  mit  dir, 
Thue  mir  dein  Kreuz  auch  theilen  mit, 
Mein  Sohn  daz  ist  mein  hochste  Bitt. 


^6  Theatrmn  Cruets. 

SALVATOR. 

Maria  Liebste  Muetter  mein, 
Nit  wollest  so  bekhiimert  sein, 
Dein  Mlietterlich  mitleyden  schwar, 
Macht  mir  der  schmerzen  noch  vil  mehr, 
Bedenkh  und  thue  erinnern  dich, 
Warumb  auf  Erd  sey  kommen  Ich, 
Das  yezt  herkhomen  sey  bereitt, 
Die  auserwolte  Stund  und  Zeit, 
Dass  Ich  erloss  daz  Menschengschlecht, 
Die  gfangen  wider  bring  zu  recht, 
Das  Ich  an  yezo  ziech  zu  Feld, 
Und  wartt  dess  Fiirstens  diser  Wellt, 
Mit  dem  ein  schwarn  Khampf  Ich  hallt, 
Und  Ihnn  benemm  all  seiner  gwallt 
Und  allss  das  Weizenkorrenlein, 
Zue  Erden  ward  geworffen  ein, 
Darauss  ervolg  die  Frucht  so  siiess, 
Das  Himmel  und  Erd  davon  geniess, 
Dasselb  betracht,  o  Muetter  wol, 
Dann  Du  bist  aller  gnaden  vol. 

MARIA. 

O  Sohn  es  ist  mir  wohl  bewust 
Und  habs  betracht  zu  aller  Frist, 
Durch  dich  soil  werden,  hochster  Trost, 
Die  arm  Verdammte  wellt  erlost, 
Kannss  aber  sohn  nit  anderst  sein, 
Alss  eben  durch  solche  schware  Pein? 

SALVATOR. 

O  Muetter  mein,  Dein  Fleisch  und  Blut, 
Darob  so  hart  erschreckhen  thuet, 
Demselben  gib  nit  Flag  so  vil, 
Denn  diss  ist  meines  Vatters  will, 
Denn  Kelch  meines  Leydens  Schwar, 
Will  ich  abschlagen  nimmermehr, 
Erinnre  dich  weh  Muetter  mein, 
Der  Frucht,  so  wirdt  ervolg  sein. 


F.   G.   G.  Sch'midt.  37 

Des  grossen  Siegs  und  werden  Cron, 

Den  ich  eriang  aufif  disem  Plan, 

So  du  mit  mier  wirst  gniiessen  recht 

Darzu  daz  arnie  menschliche  Gschlecht, 

Dass  mich  erbarmbt  auss  Herzen  grund, 

Darumb  Ich  yezt  zu  dieser  Stund, 

Fiir  sye  will  leyden,  Ich  hab  kain  rhue, 

Die  grosse  Lieb  tringt  mich  darzue, 

Der  hab  mein  Muetter  sey  getrost, 

Das  bitt  ich  dich  auffs  allerbest, 

Lass  dich  nit  rheuen  diesen  gang. 

Leyd  mit  Gedullt  dess  schmerzens  Zwang. 

MARIA. 

Nun  wolan,  mein  herzlieber  Sohn, 
Du  Edler  Hold,  mein  Edle  Cron, 
Weyl  yhr  dess  Lieben  Vatters  will, 
Und  du  die  Menschen  liebst  so  vil, 
Auch  sollichen  Tod  erleyden  willt, 
Das  Gottes  Zorn  werd  gestillt, 
Gesegnet  sey  dein  kostlich  Bluet, 
Das  unss  erwiirbt  dass  hochste  Guet, 
Gelobt  seyst  Du  Jnn  Ewigkheit, 
Umb  diesen  theuren  Kampf  und  Strait, 
Aber  wie  wierdt  geschehen  mir? 
Weyl  Jch  Kan  nimmer  helffen  dier  ? 
Da  ich  muss  layder  sehen  zue, 
Wie  deine  Feindt  ohne  alle  Rhue, 
So  greulich  spiln  mit  Deinem  Bluet, 
Ob  du  schon  bist  das  hochste  guet, 
Ach  wie  wirdt  kiinnen  moglich  sein, 
Dass  Ich  soil  sechen  soUiche  Pein  ? 
Dass  Ich  Jnn  sollichem  Kampf  bestche? 
Und  nit  zu  tausent  mal  zergehe  ? 

SALVATOR. 

O  Muetter. 

Die  Crafift  Gottes  dich  sterkhen  thuet, 

Die  Engell  haben  dich  Jnn  Huet. 


^8  Theatriun  Crucis. 

Ich  thail  dir  mit  wie  leyden  schwiir, 
Doch  mittler  weil  der  freyd  vil  mehr, 
Jezt  bist  mit  mir  Jm  Kampff  und  streitt, 
Inn  Kurz  wirst  sein  in  herrlichkhait, 
Darumb  mein  Muetter  bit  Ich  dich, 
Du  wollest  an  yez  begleitten  mich, 
Das  raicht  zue  meines  Vatters  Ehr, 
Zu  Hail  der  Menschen  noch  vil  mehr, 
Den  Himmel  ich  eroffnen  thue, 
Und  schaff  hiemit  die  Ewige  rhue, 

MARIA. 

Weil  Ich  Jnn  allem  leben  mein, 
Bin  allzeit  gwest  die  dienerin  dein, 
So  bin  ich  auch  beraith,  mein  Gott, 
Zue  gehn  mit  dier  biss  Jnn  den  Tod, 
Jch  hofF  werst  bald  erfreuen  mich, 
Und  ich  werd  frohlich  sehen  dich. 

MAGDALENA. 

O  Herr  Gott,  Inns  Himmels  Thron, 
Soil  Jesu  Dein  geHebter  Sohn, 
Mein  Zuversicht,  mein  Trost  so  siiess, 
Dem  ich  offt  gwaschen  seine  Fliess, 
Der  mir  vergeben  meine  Siind, 
Von  unss  gnommen  werd  so  gschwind, 
Durch  ein  so  schmahlich  bittern  Tod, 
Das  sey  dir  clagt,  o  threuer  Gott, 
Weil  aber  du  Herr  Jesu  mein, 
Willt  unser  aller  erloser  sein. 
So  wallt  es  nun  der  liebe  Gott, 
Mit  dir  gehe  ich  biss  in  den  Tod. 

MARTHA. 

Ich  mag  kaum  gehen,  muss  wainen  nur, 
Warlich  mir  geth  wass  selzambs  vor, 
Christus  der  Trost  und  armer  Haupt 
Soil  Er  werden  des  Lebens  beraubt. 
Wer  wirdt  nun  in  dem  Hause  mein, 


p.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  39 

Der  sUese  Gast  und  lerer  sein  ? 
Wie  Christus  der  an  manichem  orth, 
Mein  Herz  gesterkht  mit  Gottes  wortt, 
Ach  Gott  vom  Himmel  sich  darein, 
Und  woUst  unss  alle  gnedig  sein. 

ERSTER   SOLDAT. 

So  wier  wollen  aufflosen  stets, 
Der  Weiber  Clag  und  Irem  geschrey, 
Darzue  still  stohn  an  jedem  ortt, 
So  kommen  wir  heut  nimmerfortt, 
Anderst  muess  man  d'sach  greiffen  an, 
Ey  khunden  wir  einen  simplen  han, 
Der  dem  tropfen  dass  Creuz  hiilff  tragen 
Er  mochte  sonst  gar  verzagen. 

ANDER   SOLDAT. 

Ey  dort  siche  Ich  einen  hieher  gohn, 
Ich  kenn  Ihn,  ist  ein  Zimmermann, 
Zu  dieser  arbait  kombt  Er  recht, 
Er  thuet  Ihms  wol,  daz  Er  sey  knecht 
Hor  Gspan,  kom  her  zu  diser  Fahrtt, 
Wier  haben  lang  auf  dich  gewartt, 
An  disem  Holz  ist  was  vergessen, 
Du  muest  es  auf  dem  Puggel  messen,, 
Komm  her,  besinn  dich  nur  nit  lang, 
Und  nemm  fiir  guet  mit  disem  gsang, 
Willt  du  nit  gern  so  muest  du  wol 
Mit  disem  lohn  so  werden  vol. 

CYRENENSIS. 

Zuetragen  diss  Creuz  Ihr  mich  zwingt, 

Ist  unot,  das  Ihr  also  dringt, 

Fiir  lautter  Ehr  Ichs  halite  mir, 

Und  nemms  auf  mich  mit  Herzens  begier, 

Ihr  thiiet  mit  dem  Creiiz  nur  scherzen, 

Mich  freid  es  eber  von  herzen, 

Ihr  Juden  thut  solches  ausschlagen, 

Und  ich  wills  mit  Freiden  tragen, 


40  Theatrum  Cruets. 

Wehe  Euch  Juden,  est  ist  mier  vor 
Ihr  werd  kommen  in  grosse  gfahr, 
Secht  was  zue  Letst  mocht  werden  drauss 
Es  geth  mir  auff  ein  Kalter  grauss. 

Drauff  wend  Er  sick  zu  Christo  mid  sagt: 

Herr,  wass  Dankh  soil  Ich  sagen  Dir, 
Das  Du  Dein  Creuz  thuest  geben  mir, 
Willig  thue  ich  diers  tragen  nach, 
Und  will  dier  sein  gehorsam  auch. 

CHRISTUS. 

Mein  Sohn,  sey  unerschrockhen  nur, 

Und  furcht  dier  auch  vor  khainer  gfar, 

Das  Creuz  Ich  dier  auffgeben  will, 

Daneben  auch  der  gnade  vil, 

Wer  mein  Creuz  tragt,  der  hat  dessgleich, 

Ein  Thail  Inn  meines  Vatters  Reich, 

Darumb  trag  miers  vleissig  nach, 

Kan  selbst  nit  mehr,  Bin  yhr  zu  schwach. 

Cyrenensis  nembt  das  Creilcz  allain  auff  si ch  und 
geth  auff  Christum. 


Tcrtia  Classis. 


HAUPTMANN    RUEFFT    ZUM     DRITTEN 
MAL   AUSS. 

Ihr  Burger  und  Ihr  fremde  Leuth, 
Wie  Ihr  allhie  versamblet  seydt. 
Nun  hort  mier  abermalen  zue, 
Wass  Ich  euch  hie  verkhinden  thue, 
Pilatus,  der  gestreng  Praesident, 
Hat  allbereit  mit  Recht  erkennt. 
Das  Christus  soil  an  disem  Tag, 
Auff  unser  hochen  Priester  Clag, 
Getotet  werden  durch  daz  Creuz, 
Wie  auch  zween  Morder  Beederseits, 
Damit  lustitia  werd  erfillt, 
Und  auch  der  Juden  Zorn  gestillt. 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  41 

VERONICA 
Sambt  ihrer  Gesilschafft  vernemen  das  Urtail. 

Dass  Gott  im  Himmel  erbarmet  sey, 

Schwesteren,  was  horen  wir  fiir  ein  Geschrey, 

Soil  unnser  Herr  und  Maister  fromb, 

So  Unschuldig  bracht  werden  vmb, 

O  Christe  lesu  Herre  mein, 

Sollt  Du  zum  Tod  verurthailt  sein  ? 

Ach  Gott  was  sich  Ich  do  vor  mier  ? 

1st  Yhr  kain  gstallt  mehr  an  Dier, 

Wer  hat  sich  darffen  understohn  ? 

Dier  auff  zu  sagen  ein  Dorner  Cron, 

Ach  sey  es  Gott  abermal  geclagt. 

Soil  dier  sein  alle  hilff  versagt, 

Wie  ist  dein  schenes  Angesicht, 

Allso  jamerlich  zuegericht, 

Drumb  Herr,  lass  dir  nit  zwider  sein, 

Die  vilfalltige  masse  dein, 

Mit  disem  Thuech  zu  wischen  ab, 

Davon  Ich  Trost  und  Friede  hab. 

SALVATOR. 

Ich  dankh  Dir,  Liebe  Dochter  mein, 
Umb  sollich  herzlich  mitleid  dein, 
Das  soil  werden  vergollt  dier, 
Und  alien  denen,  glaubs  sicher  mir, 
Denn  diss  mein  Leyden  zherzen  geth, 
Und  solliches  auch  Betrachten  steht. 

MULIERES    PLANGENTES. 

Ach  der  betriibten  armen  Zeitt, 
Ach  Gott,  dess  grossen  Herzen  Leyd, 
O  Jesu  Christ,  o  Troster  mein, 
Sollt  Du  von  Unss  geschaiden  sein, 
O  Wunder  iiber  Wunder  gschicht, 
Das  gwisslich  vorgschechen  nicht, 
VerfUnstert  wird  die  helle  Sonn, 
Es  wird  betriebt  der  Clare  Bronn, 
Ja,  wann  mans  recht  Bekhennen  wollt, 


42  Theatrum  Crucis. 

Es  wirdt  verlalscht  daz  ware  ^old, 

Wo  hat  die  Warhait  Iren  Plaz  ? 

Wo  ist  hin  khommen  unser  Gsez  ? 

Das  unss  bevolchen  also  guet, 

Nit  zu  vergUessen  Unschuldigs  Bluet. 

O  Handel  auss  zue  sprechen  nicht, 

Der  hochste  Richter  wirdt  gericht, 

Der  Barrabas  wirdt  absolvirt, 

Und  lesus  wirdt  zum  Tod  gefiiert, 

Der  niemals  ainig  zund  gethon, 

Mues  sich  an  iezo  todten  lohn. 

Der  vil  Blinde  hat  erleicht, 

Lamen,  Stummen  die  Hand  gereicht, 

Besessne  vom  Teufel  erlost, 

Die  Weinenden  herzlich  getrost, 

Vil  tausend  in  der  WUeste  gespeist, 

Wie  menigklich  ein  sollichs  weist, 

Sein  Hand  so  gnedig  aussgestrockht, 

Die  Toden  widrumb  aufferwbckht, 

An  yezt  so  ellend  wirdt  tractirt, 

Durchs  schware  Creuz  zum  Tod  gefiirrt, 

Allss  wan  doch  diser  fromme  herr. 

Der  aller  grosste  Morder  war 

Kain  Wunder  war  Ich  sags  gut  rund, 

Das  eizo  gleich  in  diser  stund, 

Gerochen  wird  ein  solliche  Siind, 

Ach  Gott  wie  ist  man  hallt  so  blind, 

O  Jesu  Christe  Gottes  Sohn, 

Wie  wird  unss  armen  gschehen  nun  ? 

SALVATOR. 

O  Liebe  Dochtern,  dass  sag  Ich. 
Ihr  soUt  nit  wainen  iiber  mich, 
Ich  will  Euch  aber  Zaigen  an, 
Fiir  wenn  Ihr  soUet  Clage  thuen, 
Dass  seyen  Eurer  Khinder  vil, 
Darumb  Ich  Euch  nit  bergen  will, 
Es  wirdt  herkhommen  soliche  zeit, 
Die  bringen  wirdt  vil  Herze  Layd, 
Schwerdt,  Hunger,  darzu  andre  noth, 


F.   G.   G.  Schmidt.  43 

Die  man  von  mier  erfahren  hat, 
Jnn  diser  Zeit  wirdt  manicher  Mann, 
All  Berg  und  Buhel  riieffen  an, 
Ob  die  doch  fijelen  liber  sye. 
Alls  warrens  vormals  gwesen  nie, 
Ein  Frauw  sich  seelig  sprechen  wirdt, 
Die  niemals  kommen  zur  Geburt, 
So  dass  dem  griienen  holz  beschicht, 
Wass  wirdt  dem  dirren  bschechen  nicht, 
Hierusalem,  O  Liebe  Statt, 
Bedenkh  der  grossen  gnab  und  gnad, 
Du  hast  es  aber  geschlagen  auss, 
O  Jamer,  noth,  o  grosser  grauss, 
Nun  zvech  Jch  yez  auss  dier  davon, 
Dass  mein  hab  Ich  mit  Fleiss  gethon, 
Denn  Seegen,  den  Ich  dier  gebracht, 
Hast  du  mit  grossem  Spott  veracht, 
Darliir  wirst  Du  maledeyt, 
Und  diss  erfahre  in  kurzer  Zeit. 

Jnn  detne  Cyr'inensis  nach  volbrachter  Procession 
das  g&  von  sich  legt,  spricht  Er. 

Jez  glaube  Ich  und  bekhenne  es  frey, 
Das  gross  Geheimnus  verborgen  sey, 
Bey  disem  Creuz  des  Herrn  Crist, 
So  unnss  der  Zeit  nach  Unbewusst, 
Ich  halt  es  fiir  die  groste  Gnad, 
Die  meir  erzeigt  der  Liebe  gott, 
Das  soil  auch  in  dem  Herzen  mein, 
Mein  Lebenlang  beschlossen  sein, 
Bey  disem  Creuz  erfreu  Ich  mich. 
Bey  disem  leb  und  stirbe  Ich, 
Darumb  Ich  denn  zu  diser  stund, 
Zusprechen  will  mit  Herz  und  Mund, 
Nun  sey  gegruest  Du  Hayliges  ^ 
Geziert  so  herrlich  beederscits, 
Mit  meines  Herrn  glidern  all, 
Bist  heller,  dann  der  Sonnenstraal, 
Ein  schoner  glanz,  ohne  alles  End, 
Dass  gleich  nit  ist  Jm  Firmament, 


44  Theatrum  Cruets. 

Du  schoner  Baum,  von  Friiechten  siiess. 

Gib,  das  Ich  deiner  auch  geniiess, 

Zu  Wolfahrt  Leibs  und  auch  der  Seel 

Behiiet  unss  alle  vor  der  Holl, 

Vor  alien  Feinden  unss  bewahr, 

Vor  Feuer,  Wasser  und  Gfahr, 

Sey  unser  Trost,  auch  schiirm  und  Schuz, 

Behiiet  unss  vor  der  Teufels  trug, 

Du  Schlissel  zu  des  Himmelsport, 

Bewahr  unss  Christo  hie  und  dort, 

Dich  nemmen  wir  fiir  unsern  Steg 

Du  bist  der  rcchte  Himmelweg, 

Darauff  man  sicher  kommen  khan, 

Zu  Gott,  und  seinem  hochsten  Thron, 

Damit  man  sein  geniesse  do. 

Dann  sonst  kein  Freid  ist  anderstwo, 

So  nemm  unss  auff  zur  selben  stund, 

Wann  unss  die  Seel  fart  auss  dem  Mund, 

Durch  den,  der  an  dir  gehangen  ist, 

Mein  Gott  und  Hayland  Jesus  Christ, 

Der  helff  unss  auch  zu  yder  zeit, 

Und  sey  gelobt  in  Ewighheit.     Amen. 


F.  G.  G.  SCHMIDT. 


CORNELL   COLLEGE, 
MT.    VERNON,    IOWA. 


CONJECTURAL  RESTORATION  OF  THE  SO-CAI^LED 
CARMEN   GOTHICUM. 


Among  the  fragments  of  the  great  encyclopedia  of  the  Em- 
peror Konstantinos  Porphyrogennetos  there  has  come  down  to 
us  a  fairly  detailed  treatise  entitled  kW/sact;  -£pi  ^aadeiou  rafew?,  better 
known  as  De  caeremoniis  atilcE  Bysantincg.  It  was  first  pub- 
lished by  Reiske  in  1754,  and  subsequently  incorporated  into  the 
Corpus  scriptorum  histories  ByzantincB. 

In  the  83d  chapter  of  Bk,  I,  we  have  a  circumstantial  account 
of  a  court  festival  or  Christmas  carnival  which  lasted  twelve  days, 
the  particular  performance  with  which  we  are  here  concerned 
taking  place  on  the  ninth  day,  which  corresponded  to  our  New 
Year. 

Among  the  many  amusements  which  the  emperor  provided 
for  his  guests  on  this  occasion  was  a  certain  song,  accompanied 
by  a  dance,  ro  hy6[xtvnv  Foti^cxov.  The  text  of  this  alleged  song 
reads  as  follows  in  the  only  MS.  to  which  we  owe  the  curious 
narrative : 

yauZaq  j  ^ovaq'  ^r/xrj8ia<;'  ayia  yaodivreq,  iXx-q(i6vi8tq  evxeprvq  |  Syia'  fiova 
wpa  •TOUTo^avTsq'  ^ova  d;iope'^7:i(TxuavT£^  ||  tdsffaX/SaTouq'  vava'  dioog'  diouq' 
ffejSaxt^a'  vava  deu/xovo'  yuyyufieXe-  yu^iXooq'  yu^iXapeq'  vava'  yo^iXou<;,  yu^iXapeq 
vava'  Touyeydefia  ds  rouX^eXe'  vtxdru)  rouXdo'  vava  [o  'E!^exia(;  iv  roti;  TzoXifioiq 
xa&onXtffdfjLsvoq  'Afftruptotq^  avava  [r^v  iXnida  xa\  fidvrjv  e-^wv  t?eoD  too  fiXavolj] 
vava  ^unira^ev  i&vTj  a^imv^  {yh^  '^'^^  rupdvvtda^  ayta  [<J  ar/t;  dya^ol  dsanoTai'^ 
vava  [Trdvra  k-^^pov  ffd(;  StoXwaec  npo  rwv  nodwv  <Tdi;'\  Ifiepcficefi  too  tyyepoua 
yspyspe^pu)'  vava'  ffixadiatre  7:ep£Toupe(;  xdl  eW  outux;  Xiyouatv  ol  p.aiazopBi; 
[i£Td  xai  Tuiv  drjfioruJv  to  ^AX<pa^irapiv'  dvava. 

It  was  quite  natural  that  this  passage  should  attract  atten- 
tion, for  it  was  seen  at  a  glance  that,  apart  from  a  palpable  inter- 
polation regarding  Hesekiah,  with  its  allusion  to  the  Psalms,  and 
the  closing  sentence,  the  above  text  contained  but  few  genuine 
Greek  words.     That  the  passage  was  a  complete  enigma  to  the 


46  Cari7ia7i   Gothiaim. 

scribes  is  shown  not  only  by  the  non-grammatical  structure  of 
the  text  itself,  but  particularly  by  the  fact  that  the  author  of  one 
of  the  two  glossaries  appended  in  our  MS.  makes  it  out  to  be 
chiefly  Hebrew  !  Everything  about  the  description  seemed  un- 
mistakably to  point  to  a  Gothic  chant  or  hymn  in  a  Greek 
transliteration  and  presumably  of  hoary  antiquity. 

Acting  upon  this  presumption,  men  like  Jacob  Grimm  and 
Miillenhoif  exercised  their  ingenuity  in  unravelling  its  hidden 
meaning.  And  right  interesting  was  the  information  which 
they  elicited  from  the  alleged  Gothic  text.  The  ceremony  in 
question  we  learned  was  connected  with  the  Germanic  Youl  or 
Julfest,  even  the  cry  "  Tul,  Tul,"  which  the  anonymous  narrator 
alleges  was  uttered  by  the  Gothic  singers,  being  a  simple  corrup- 
tion of  Youl. 

For  more  than  a  generation  Germanists  complacently  accepted 
the  general  conclusions  which  the  consummate  scholars  above 
mentioned  had  reached. 

Their  amazement  must  have  been  pathetic,  had  they  been 
permitted  to  read  an  article  by  Conrad  Miiller  in  Zacher's 
Zeitschrift  f.  deutsche  Philologic^  vol.  xiv,  pp.  442-460,  who 
noticed,  what  had  miraculously  escaped  the  observation  of  all 
previous  investigators,  that  the  so-called  Canne^i  Gothicum  was 
practically  nothing  more  than  Latin  in  a  Greek  transliteration. 
By  the  aid  of  the  well-known  modes  of  transliterating  Latin  into 
Greek,  customary  among  the  Byzantians,  together  with  the  help 
afforded  by  the  first  glossary  (it  is  unfortunately  incomplete), 
Miiller  with  no  little  ingenuity  gave  what  he  regarded  as  a  sub- 
stantially correct  reconstruction  of  the  Car?nen  Gothicum. 

Owing  to  the  unfortunate  circumstance,  however,  that  not  a 
few  words  had  been  sadly  mutilated,  while  some  originally  Latin 
words  had  apparently  been  crowded  out  by  the  intrusion  of 
Greek  glosses,  and  because  Miiller  still  remained  to  some  extent, 
as  we  shall  see,  under  the  spell  of  the  Gothic  hypothesis,  his 
restoration  was  but  moderately  successful. 

The  next  scholar  to  discuss  the  Cartnen  Gothicimi  was  R. 
Kogel  in  his  Geschichte  der  deutschen  Liter atur^  vol.  i,  pt.  i,  pp. 


Alfred  Giidcnia7i.  4-7 

34-39.  He,  of  course,  accepts  tlie  main  thesis  of  Miiller  and  his 
own  conjectural  restoration  unquestionably  marks  an  advance 
upon  that  of  his  predecessor,  as  will  be  seen  from  the  following 
juxtaposition  of  their  readings,  Kegel's  corrections  and  sugges- 
tions being  placed  in  parenthesis  : 

1.  Gaudeas  bonas  vicinas,  Hagia  (heia). 

2.  Gaudete  saecli  boni  dies  in  certis  (certo)  Hagia  (heia). 

3.  Bona  hora  tutubantes. 

4.  Bona  amore  inspicientes  (episkuantes-MS). 

5.  Inde  (ide)  salvatus,  Nana,  deus,  deus  (heia). 

6.  die  vaciva.  Nana,  daemonici  (daimonio)  iubili. 

7.  iubilos  iubilaris  Nana. 

8.  iubilos  iubilares  Nana. 

9.  Tu  genite  (gegdema-MS.)  ima  die,  Tul  belle  vincat  (vincito) 
o  Tul  et  o  (Tul  deus)  Nana. 

10.  iber  iberiem  (iber  iam)  tu  ingerua.  (in  garva)  gergeretro 
(grege  retroi)  Nana  sicadiae  (sic  adeas)  peritiiris. 

Kogel  very  truly  says,  in  reference  to  his  restoration,  "  Es 
bleibt  noch  viel  zu  thun  iibrig,"  and  we  may  add  that  it  must 
remain  a  hopeless  task  to  clear  away  all  the  difficulties  without 
the  accession  of  new  MS.  material — a  very  remote  contingency. 
And  yet,  in  spite  of  the  extremely  corrupt  state  of  our  text,  a 
closer  approximation  to  the  original  seems  still  to  be  possible. 

One  thing  cannot  be  too  strongly  emphasized  at  the  very  out- 
set. It  is  that  the  Carmen  Gothicuvi^  with  possibly  one  soli- 
tary exception,  to  be  discussed  later,  does  not  contain  a  single 
genuine  Gothic  word^  although  both  Miiller  and  Kogel  by 
some  amusing  linguistic  sleight-of-hand  have  managed  to  dis- 
cover a  number  of  such  words,  as  Grimm  and  Miillenhoff  had 
done  before  them.  Thus  e.  g.^  we  find  the  word  ayia  in  our  text. 
The  word  has  a  suspiciously  Greek  look.  Not  so,  says  Kogel, 
"  Heia  ist  die  bekannte  Interjection,  die  damit  auch  fiir  das 
Gothische  nachgewiesen  ist,"  a  palpable  petitio  principii.  Take 
another  instance,  inL<rKuw^Tsc;,  This  too  has  a  true  Greek  ring, 
although  the  glossator  explains  it  by  iruyvwvreq  "  looking  on " 
which  led  Miiller  to  believe  that  the  word  was  but  a  corruption 


48  Carman   Goihicnm. 

of  "  inspicientes  "  or  "  speculantes."  This,  if  not  wholly  convin- 
cing, is  at  least  not  unmethodical  and  does  not  violate  the  pre- 
sumable meaning  of  the  text.  But  what  does  Kogel  say? 
"  ETziffxuavTei;  ist  halb  (!)  gothisch  und  gehort  zu  einem  verbum 
skuan^  das  bei  Wulfila  skauaii  lauten  wiirde(!)  und  sich  von 
ahd.  scauwon  nur  (sic  !)  in  der  Ablautsstufe  unterscheidet." 

But  the  climax  is  undoubtedly  capped  by  Miiller  in  his  inter- 
pretation of  Nana^  Till  and  Iter  w^hich,  it  will  be  noticed,  occur 
repeatedly,  particularly  the  first. 

"  Der  durchaus  eingeweihte  und  zuverlassige  lexicograph 
iibersetzt  mit  casus  von  /y^-wc,  versteht  also  unter  ihnen  gottliche 
Wesen."  Out  of  "  Touyeyih/m  rjc  TouXiSsXs,"  Miiller  had  extracted  "  tu 
genite  ima  die,  Tul  belle, — der  du  am  aussersten  Tage  geboren 
warst,"  whatever  that  may  mean.  But  complacently  regarding 
this  restoration  as  certain,  he  adds  "  Z?// wird  als  gothliches  Wesen 
durch  jene  Anrede  unzweifelhaft," — another  delightful  circulus 
vitiosus.  "  Doch  auch  bei  Nana  bleibt  es  ausgeschlossen  einen 
griechischen  Ausruf  anzunehmen,  zwar  begegnen  wir  de  caere- 
moniis  demselben  als  gruss  der  cantoren  wieder,  aber  wenn  der 
byzantinische  autor  es  selbst  nicht  als  griechisch  anerkennt,  so 
haben  wir  noch  weniger  Grund  dazu.  Auffalliger  ist  est,  dass 
Nana  stets  mit  Doppelformen  von  {)-c6q  gegeben  wird."  We  shall 
see  presently,  that  this  is  by  no  means  "  auffallig,"  and  that  "  der 
eingeweihte  und  zuverlassige  Lexicograph"  for  once  merits  these 
epithets,  but  Miiller  in  his  perplexity  is  led  to  the  assumption, 
that  Nana  represents  a  geminated  form  "na-na,"  or  rather  a  nasa- 
lized "  Nan-Nan."  "  Nach  allem  Beiwerk  zu  schliessen,  konnen 
also  (!)  diese  gottlichen  Wesen  nur  germanisch  bezw.  gothisch 
sein,  so  sehr  auch  sonst  auf  den  allgemein  germanischen  character 
der  weihnachtsfeier  riicksicht  zu  nehmen  ist.  Mit  besserer 
sicherheit  als  von  Miillenhoff  scheinen  somit  hier  drei  german- 
ische  goetter,  Tnl^  Na  und  /<5^r  entdeckt  zu  sein."  Miiller  then 
proceeds  to  identify  Nana  and  Ttcl  with  various  well-known 
Germanic  deities,  which  exposition  need,  however,  not  be  taken 
seriously,  as  Muller  himself  says  "  Ich  selbst  fiihle  am  tiefsten 
wie  der  boden  schwankt,  auf  dem  ich  mich  bewege,  wie  schnell 


Alfred  Gicdcman.  49 

eine  neue  beobachtung  alle  folgenden  hypothesen  stiirzen  kann," 
I  am  confident,  that  the  "  neue  beobachtung"  which  I  now 
present  will  bring  about  the  result  which  Miiller  feared. 

It  will  be  observed,  that  by  the  side  of  Nana  the  form  anana 
occurs  twice,  a  variant  calmly  dismissed  by  Miiller  and  wholly 
ignored  or  overlooked  by  Kogel,  and  yet  it  furnishes  the  key  to 
the  solution  of  the  problem  before  us.  For  I  am  convinced  that 
avava,  of  which  vw^a  is  a  very  natural  corruption,  is  nothing  more 
nor  less  than  the  double  vocative  of  wm^,  the  truncated  form  «Va 
for  the  regular  avazre  being  used  only  in  invocations  to  the  gods 
and  is  so  found  repeatedly  in  Homer,  Zzb  wm  {e.  g.  i"  351  //  233 
P  354).  It  corresponds  to  our  "  O  Lord."  This  interpretation 
at  once  explains  why  the  lexicographer  invariably  gives  6  fhoq, 
■&£oq^  and  why  the  text  itself  in  one  passage  has  5£oy?,  Seouq^  after 
vava,  a  fact  which  we  have  seen  sorely  puzzled  Miiller,  leading  him 
into  an  absurd  hypothesis.  The  epanalepsis,  "  O  Lord,  O  Lord" 
is  of  course  quite  appropriate  in  invocation  hymns,  such  as  the 
Carmen  Gothicimi  seems  to  have  been,  and  it  is  found  frequently 
both  in  the  Old  and  the  New  Testament.  The  female  Gothic 
divinity  of  Miillenhoff  and  Miiller  has  thus  vanished  into  thin 
air  and  we  shall  be  compelled  hereafter  to  refuse  admittance  to 
her  in  the  already  crowded  Germanic  pantheon.  Tul^  the  other 
newly  discovered  deity  so  unexpectedly  introduced  into  Walhalla, 
will,  also,  I  apprehend,  not  be  allowed  to  enjoy  very  long  the 
society  of  that  exclusive  and  august  assemblage,  even  though 
the  explanation  of  the  name  be  not  quite  so  clear  as  in  the 
former  case.  Tid  occurs  twice  in  a  passage  otherwise  suspicious 
(touX^sXs  vtxaru)'  rouXdo  vava),  for  a  Greek  explanatory  gloss,  which 
has  evidently  displaced  the  original  Latin  word,  separates  the 
combination  of  letters  which  contain  the  alleged  proper  name. 
If  Nana  is  a  divinity,  as  has  been  confidently  assumed,  then  Titl 
cannot  well  have  been  one  too,  for  such  a  close  collocation  of 
deities  would  be  quite  out  of  place  and  intrinsically  improbable. 

Now  it  will  be  noticed  that  the  Carmen  Gothiciim^  carelessly 
written  as  it  admittedly  is,  still  retains  in  part  an  unmistakable 
symmetry  of  structure,  often  found  in  ancient  invocations,  the 


50  Carmen  Gothiciim. 

two  lines  or  hemisticlis  beginning  with  the  same  word  as  'V.  g. 
gaudeas-gaudete,  bona-bona,  inbilos-iubilos.* 

I  am  convinced  that  the  passage  under  discussion  furnishes 
but  another  illustration  of  like  symmetry,  the  touX  being  a  corrup- 
tion of  the  personal  pronoun,  due  to  a  coalescence  of  iu  with  illo^ 
TouXlie).£  then  would  be  "  tu  illo  bello,"  rovlSe  "  tu  illo  die."  When 
we  are  told  that  the  singers  shouted  "  tul,  tul,"  I  cannot  but 
think  that  the  first  scribe,  who  must  have  taken  down  the 
words  from  the  living  lips  of  the  singers  and  who  certainly  wrote, 
what  to  him  was  an  unintelligible  jargon,  thought  he  heard  an  1, 
which  is  quite  possible,  when  tu^  tu  is  pronounced  in  rapid  suc- 
cession, so  that  his  phonetic  transcription  cannot  in  any  case  be 
binding  upon  us.  But  be  this  as  it  may,  the  above  examination 
will,  I  hope,  have  at  least  made  it  clear  that  there  is  nothing  in 
the  extant  text  to  warrant  the  assumption  of  a  new  Gothic  deity 
named  Ttil. 

I  pass  on  to  a  brief  discussion  of  a  number  of  other  readings 
and  their  interpretation. 

iizia-AoavTtc;.  Miiller's  and  Kegel's  comments  on  this  word 
have  already  been  examined  and  rejected  as  unsatisfactory.  I 
believe  that  here  again  we  have  a  Greek  gloss  which,  as  in  the 
case  of  vjzarw,  has  ousted  the  Latin  original,  and  that  we  should 
read  ini/Txtavrsc;^  giving  to  it  the  meaning  which  it  has  in  the 
Psalms,  namely,  "to  hold  a  sheltering  hand  over,"  an  interpreta- 
tion which  derives  no  little  support  from  the  fact  that  a  few  lines 
farther  down  a  passage  in  the  Psalms  is  clearly  alluded  to. 

Line  6  was  ingeniously  read  by  Miiller  as  die  vaciva.  If  this 
be  correct,  and  I  believe  it  is,  we  certainly  should  expect  the  first 
hemistich  to  begin  with  the  same  word,  but  i8t  aa^azouq,  is  inter- 
preted by  Miiller  and  Kogel  as  inde  salvatus^  which  destroys  the 
symmetry  and  gives  no  meaning,  for  inde  cannot  signify  "  von 


*  Kogel  believes  that  he  has  detected  clear  indications  of  Germanic  versifica- 
tion, but  his  alleged  evidence  is  rendered  extremely  doubtful  by  the  fact  that 
the  old  Gothic  song  has  come  down  to  us  in  an  extremely  mutilated  Latin  para- 
phase  which  would  hardly  have  retained  the  peculiarities  of  a  rhythm  so  foreign 
to^Latin.  That  the  original  was  composed  in  some  rhythm  is,  of  course,  very 
probable. 


Alfred  Gudevian.  51 

heute  ab."  I  have  not  the  slightest  doubt  that  "■  ibe"  is  written 
for  die^  by  metathesis,  a  notoriously  common  source  of  MS.  cor- 
ruption. The  Greek  text  seems  to  point  to  aak^arow;,  salvatus 
or  salvatorius,  i.e..,  day  of  the  Saviour,  Christmas.  I  am,  however, 
more  inclined  to  think  that  aaX^aruuq  is  a  corruption  of  ffa^^arou^, 
and  I,  therefore,  read  die  saddale,*  a  repetition  of  die  vaciva, 
"  holiday,"  such  pleonasms  being,  as  already  remarked,  charac- 
teristic of  hymns  of  this  nature. 

deufjLovco  seems  to  be  a  gloss  on  «Va  datfiwv,  which  crept  into  the 
text.     So  avava,  deus  deus. 

Touyeyds/ia.  Miiller's  "  tu  gcuite  ima  die"  is  quite  unintelli- 
gible, as  we  have  seen,  and  not  explained  by  the  author.  Kogel 
gives  it  up  as  hopeless.  I  think  there  lurks  in  yeyde/m  the  word 
"jejuna,"  y  being  habitually  used  in  transliterating  Latin  j.  It 
means  on  this  "  fast  day,"  and  would  thus  in  a  measure  corres- 
pond to  die  vaciva  and  die  sabhate. 

In  the  next  hemistich,  I  read  :  Tu  illo  bello  vincito,  tu  illo  die 
.  .  .  deus,  deus.  There  then  follows  in  our  text  a  Greek  passage 
which  treats  of  wars  with  Assyria,  ending  with  a  quotation  from 
Hesekiah  and  the  allusion  to  the  Psalms  already  referred  to, — a 
passage  clearly  interpolated,  but  one  which  lends  support  to  my 
emendation  "  bello  vincito." 

The  last  line  is  despaired  of  by  Mil  Her,  but  he  gives  a  selection 
of  conjectures  ;  Iber  he  considers  another  name  for  Freyr^  as 
Nan  corresponded  to  Frigg  and  Tul  to  Odin.  We  have  already 
seen  how  improbable  these  identifications  are.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  the  line  is  very  much  mutilated.  Kogel,  acting  upon 
one  of  Miiller's  suggestions,  proposes :  Iber.,  Iber.,  iain  tu  in 
garva  grege.,  retroi  nana.,  sic  adeas  e  perituris.  This  restoration 
comes  very  near  to  the  truth,  except  garva.,  which  is  meaning- 
less.    I  believe  the  original  had  parvo. 

Iber  seems,  indeed,  to  represent  Eber,  which  would  thus  be  the 
only  Gothic  word  in  the  entire  text,  unless,  what  is  not  at  all 
impossible,  we  assume  that  it  was  corrupted  out  of  aper.     The 


*  The  endings  in  our  text  are  wholly  arbitrary  and  throughout  extra  struc- 
turam,  so  that  the  wf  ending  need  not  give  us  difl&culty. 


52  Car7ne7i  Gothiaim. 

meaning  of  the  line  would  then  be  :  "  O  boar,  boar,  already  you 
are  in  the  small  herd  (flock),  retrace  his  step,  O  Lord,  O  Lord, 
and  thus  be  present  unto  those  about  to  perish."  This  gives 
excellent  sense,  it  is  quite  in  keeping  with  the  composite  charac- 
ter of  these  hymns,  which  combine  the  cries  of  joy  with  invoca- 
tions for  help  in  peril.  So  the  very  ancient  Carmen  Arvale 
intersperses  shouts  of  "  triumpe,  triumpe"  with  frantic  appeals 
for  aid.  The  prayer,  moreover,  to  keep  the  wild  beast  from  the 
small  flock  has  a  close  parallel  in  Tibitllus^  who  has  perhaps 
preserved  primitive  customs  more  carefully  than  any  other 
Roman  poet.  Cp.  I,  i,  33  :  At  vos  exiguo  pecori,  furesque  lu- 
pique  I  parcite :  de  magno  est  praeda  petenda  grege  .  .  .  adsitis 
divi. 

I  intentionally  reserve  for  the  last,  what  is  undoubtedly  the 
most  puzzling  passage  in  the  entire  text, — ilxrj^ovidsi;  evxep-u^ 
(xspxoz).  The  glossary  gives  to  the  first  word  the  meaning  Tzpoq- 
xaXnopvjoi  "  invited."  Almost  anything  may  lurk  in  the  word, 
but  there  is  no  Greek  or  Latin  combination  of  letters  that  could 
have  suggested  the  Greek  translation.  Miiller  rather  ingeniously 
conjectures  and  Kogel  follows  him,  saecli  boni  dies^  "  '  freut  euch 
der  Tage  der  schoenen  Zeit,'  was  T.poay.alobiivjoi  sehr  wohl  heissen 
konnte."  I  have  made  several  guesses,  but  they  do  not  seem 
to  me  inherently  probable  and  I  therefore  acquiesce  in  Miiller's 
restoration  for  the  present,  though  firmly  convinced  that  it  is 
wrong.  The  second  word  is  equally  tantalizing.  Miiller  regards 
it  as  the  equivalent  of  incertiis.  This  is  improbable  on  many 
grounds.  It  does  not  suit  the  context,  the  "glossator"  who, 
according  to  Miiller  is  "  eingeweiht  und  zuverlassig,"  translates 
tvxzpToq  by  a^wvcC^/^evof,  i.e.^  "  engaging  in  conflict."  This  inter- 
pretation at  once  suggests  the  Latin  certare^  certamen^  or  rather 
a  noun  certa^  which  does  not  occur.  Besides  the  lemma  in  the 
second  glossary  is  ivx£pxu(;,  but  it  is  explained  by  dfffdXeoj^^  which  in 
turn  points  to  evxtpruq  m  cei^tis  "  among  sure  things,"  and  this  is 
perhaps  nearest  to  the  truth,  always  provided  that  Miiller's  inter- 
pretation of  eXxT,i36vi8eq  hits  the  mark,  which  is  more  than  doubtful. 

My  own  restoration  of  the  Carmeit  Gothiaim  would  then  take 


Alfred  Gudevian.  53 

the  following  fonn,  a  few  changes  being  either  self-evident  or 
else  not  in  need  of  special  comment. 

1.  Gaudeas  bonas  vicinias  !  {aha  salve  ?). 
Gaudete  saecli  boni  dies  (?)  in  certis  (?)  salvete. 

2.  Bona  hora  tutubantes. 
Bona  amore  iTztaxiavrsq. 

3.  Die  sabbate,  deus,  deus. 
Die  vacivo,  deus,  deus. 

4.  iubilate  iubili  iubilate,  deus  deus. 
(iubilate)  iubili  iubilate  deus  deus. 

5.  Tu  ieiuno  die  (vincito)  (deus  deus). 
Tu  illo  bello  vincito  (deus  deus). 
Tu  illo  die  (vincito),  deus  deus. 

6.  Iber,  Iber,  iam  tu  in  parvo  grege,  retroi,  deus  deus. 

7.  Sic  adeas  perituris. 

TRANSLATION  : 

Rejoice  in  good  neighborhood,  hail  ! 

Rejoice  ye  in  the  good  days  of  the  age  as  among  certain  things. 

At  the  festival  hour  let  the  trumpet  sound. 

Lovingly  hold  sheltering  hand  over  our  possessions. 

On  this  sabbath  day,  O  Lord,  O  Lord, 

On  this  holiday,  O  Lord,  O  Lord. 

Rejoice  ye  revellers,  rejoice,  O  Lord,  O  Lord, 

Rejoice  ye  revellers,  rejoice,  O  Lord,  O  Lord  ! 

On  this  fast  day,  do  thou  conquer,  O  Lord,  O  Lord, 

Do  thou  conquer  in  that  war,  O  Lord,  O  Lord, 

Aye  conquer  on  that  day,  O  Lord,  O  Lord! 

O  boar,  boar,  already  thou  art  in  the  small  herd  ! 

Cause  him  to  retreat,  O  Lord,  O  Lord  ! 

Thus  mayest  thou  be  present  unto  those  about  to  perish, 

ALFRED   GUDEMAN. 

UNIVERSITY  OF  PENNSYI,VANIA, 
PHII^ADELPHIA. 


FERDINAND   FREILIGRATH   IN    AMERICA. 


The  paradoxical  title  of  this  article  is  justified  by  the  fact 
that  no  German  poet  of  the  present  century,  who  never  saw 
America,  has  found  more  genuine  sympathy  among  both  Ger- 
man and  English  people  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic  than  the 
exiled  Ferdinand  Freiligrath.  The  poet's  long  residence  in  Eng- 
land, too,  brought  him  into  a  kind  of  native  cultural  kinship 
with  English-speaking  lovers  of  liberty  both  in  Britain  and  in 
Greater  Britain.  Indeed,  Freiligrath's  sojourn  in  England  forms 
naturally  the  introductory  chapter  of  the  present  paper. 

As  if  forecasting  his  future  exile  among  the  English,  the  poet, 
even  while  an  apprentice  in  business  turned  eagerly  to  the  study 
of  the  English  language.  The  immediate  motive  of  this  study 
was  prompted  by  his  desire  to  be  sent  as  clerk  to  his  uncle  Her- 
mann in  Scotland,  whither  the  Wizzard  of  the  North,  Walter 
Scott,  had  attracted  the  young  German  by  the  magic  of  his 
stories  and  of  his  song.  In  the  poet's  thirteenth  year  (early  in 
1823)  his  uncle,  who  was  in  business  in  Edinburgh,  wrote  to 
Wilhelm  Freiligrath  for  an  account  of  Ferdinand's  education, 
inclination  and  personal  characteristics,  with  a  view  to  adopting 
him  as  his  son.*  That  this  was  the  stimulus  to  the  poet's  ener- 
getic study  of  English  is  evident  from  the  fact,  that,  while  in  the 
list  of  Ferdinand's  studies  sent  to  the  uncle  no  English  is  men- 
tioned, and  French  only  as  private  instruction,  the  young  poet 
having  had  his  thoughts  turned  to  Scotland  began  the  study  of 
English  immediately  upon  entering  a  business  house  in  Soest  as 
apprentice.  Although  he  studied  also  French  and  Italian, 
which  were  essential  to  the  equipment  of  a  well-schooled  busi- 
ness man,  he  seems  to  have  had  a  peculiar  fondness  for  his  Eng- 
lish.    He  related  in  after  years  "  wie  er  als  Lehrling  in  Soest  an 


*  Wilhelm  Buchner,  Ferdinand  Freiligrath,  ein  Dichterleben  in  Brie/en,  I,  24-5. 


M.  D.  Learned.  55 

frostigen  Wintermorgen  iiber  knisternden  Schnee,  mit  Paradise 
lost  und  dein  Vicar  of  Wakefield  unter  dem  Arm,  durch  die 
Strassen  der  altertiimlichen  Stadt  gewandert  sei,  und  gewohnlich 
den  lyehrer  um  sechs  Uhr  erst  habe  aus  den  Federn  holen 
miissen."* 

Although  the  Edinburgh  uncle,  through  a  misunderstanding, 
failed  to  adopt  Ferdinand,  the  study  of  English  was  prosecuted 
with  great  success  and  turned  by  the  youthful  poet  to  good 
account.  Says  Buchner  :  "  Diese  Sprachkenntnis  war  denn  audi 
der  einzige  Gewinn,  der  ihm  aus  der  Edinburger  Fata  Morgana 
verblieb." 

From  the  Exercitia  of  Ferdinand,  written  during  the  years 
1825-26,  it  can  be  seen  that  the  poet  had  already  made  such 
progress  as  to  attempt  translations,  both  into  and  from  English, 
— all  of  this  an  earnest  of  the  work  he  was  to  accomplish  in 
later  years  as  literary  mediator  between  England  and  Germany. 
In  addition  to  his  persistent  labors  in  translating  English  poems, 
Freiligrath  early  conceived  the  plan  of  establishing  some  regular 
medium  of  literary  communication  between  England  and  Ger- 
many, and  he  found  others  who  encouraged  his  efforts. 

As  early  as  the  beginning  of  1841,  Freiligrath  accepted  a 
proposition  from  Heinrich  Kiinzel  in  Darmstadt  to  undertake 
the  publication  of  a  weekly  entitled  Britannia^  which  should  fur- 
nish to  the  German  people  German  translations  of  English  poetry, 
articles  on  English  literature,  and  reviews  of  English  works. 
"  Es  sind  mir  vom  Rhein  aus  Antrage  wegen  der  Redaction 
einer  Zeitschrift  gemacht  worden,  deren  Zweck  es  sein  soil, 
englische  Literatur  und  englische  Poesie  durch  Uebersichten, 
Recensionen  und  Uebersetzungen  in  Deutschland  zu  vertreten."t 

The  enterprise  was  never  carried  out  farther  than  the  pros- 
pectus number,  greatly  to  the  disappointment  and  discomfiture 
of  Freiligrath.  The  last  year  of  his  life  (1875-6),  however,  the 
poet  was  enabled  to  see  this  long  cherished  plan  of  a  literary 
publication,    which    should    mediate     between    Germany    and 


*  Buchner,  I,  38-39. 
t  Buchner,  I,  387. 


56  Freiligrath  in  America. 

England,  realized  in  the  founding  of  Hallberger's  Illustrated 
English  Magazine.  * 

Freiligrath's  earliest  poetry  attracted  attention  in  England 
and  found  fit  recognition  in  the  English  reviews,  though  arous- 
ing in  some  quarters  decided  disapproval  and  even  open  censure. 

In  the  year,  1842  William  Howitt  gave  a  characterization  of 
our  poet,  which  reads  now,  after  the  conflict  of  1848,  more  as 
prophecy  than  as  criticism.  If  Howitt  had  himself  written  this 
estimate  of  Freiligrath  after  the  Glaubensbekenntniss  had  become 
revolution,  he  could  not  have  given  a  more  faithful  picture  of 
the  essential  quality  of  the  poet's  genius.  Hence  the  justifica- 
tion of  Howitt's  statement  that  he  cannot  do  better  in  1847  than 
to  quote  his  earlier  account,  which  runs  thus :  "  But  more 
than  all,  I  should  say  Ferdinand  Freiligrath  possesses  the  life 
and  vigor  with  the  fiery  aspirations  of  the  young  poet,  which 
more  than  justify  the  enthusiasm  with  which  his  productions 
have  been  received  all  over  Germany.  They  stand  amongst 
those  of  his  contemporaries  with  bold  and  prominent  effect,  and 
make  you  feel  that  he  needs  nothing  but  the  recurrence  of  a 
more  stirring  period,  the  stormy  dawn  of  a  more  eventful  day, 
to  spring  forth  into  a  greatness  equal  to  the  occasion.  The 
originality  and  fire  of  genius  in  him  is  prodigious.  You  feel 
that  there  lies  in  his  bosom  a  well-spring  of  them,  that  only  re- 
quires the  jar  of  a  social  earthquake  to  send  them  spouting  up 
like  geysers  into  the  glittering  air.f 

Soon  after  the  appearance  of  his  Gedichte  (1838),  we  find 
the  third  edition  (1840)  noticed  in  a  lengthy  review  in  the 
Dublin  University  Magasine^X  as  follows  : 

"  Poems !  ay  in  good  sooth,  and  pictures,  too !  only  so  atro- 
ciously vivid  and  Chinese  in  their  coloring — so  like  a  chandler's 
dipping-vault,  all  glare  without  even  the  suspicion  of  a  shade — 
that  we  almost  fear  to  look  upon  them  lest — 

'  Blasted  with  excess  of  light, 
We  close  our  eyes  in  endless  night.' 

*  Buchner,  II,  421. 

t  Littell's  Living  Age  (1847),  Vol.  12,  p.  59S  (quoted  from  Howitt's  Rural 
and  Domestic  Life  of  Germafiy,  1S42,  p,  476.) 
X  Vol.  21  (1S43),  p.  29. 


Af.  D.  Learned.  57 

"  What  a  '  waste'  of  sun  !  and  what  still  more  extensive  wastes 
of  sand  !     And  then  such  snow  and  ice  ! 

"  We  beg  to  acquaint  our  friend  Freiligrath  in  the  emphatic 
language  of  Jeffrey  to  Wordsworth  that  '  this  will  not  do.'  " 

The  appearance  of  the  Glattbensbckenntniss  (1844)  sounded  a 
revolutionary  alarm,  which  reverberated  through  the  courts  of 
Germany  and  shook  even  the  banks  of  Britain,  leaving  no  longer 
doubt  that  the  poet  who  two  years  before  had  declared  : 

"  Der  Dichter  steht  auf  einer  hoheren  Warte 
Als  auf  den  Zinnen  der  Partei," 

and  could  calmly  reject  the  well-earned  pension  and  favor 
of  the  King  of  Prussia  and  take  his  place  as  defender  of  the 
rights  of  the  people,  must  now  be  recognized  as  a  significant  fac- 
tor in  European  politics  as  well  as  in  German  song.  In  England 
the  GlanbensbekenntJiiss  found  speedy  response.  The  Foreign 
Quarterly  Review'^  in  an  article  reviewing  Freiligrath's  Gedichte 
and  Glaubensbekejmt7tiss^  after  quoting  the  poem  "  Freedom  and 
Right"  both  in  the  original  and  English  translation,  remarks : 

"  And  it  is  in  the  teeth  of  such  condemning  evidence  as  this  that 
here  and  there  some  crotchety  Englishman  can  affect  to  mourn 
over  the  poet's  descent  into  the  ignoble  region  of  political  strife  ! 
As  if  freedom  were  not  the  living  breath  of  all  true  poetry,  or 
as  if  there  could  be  found  a  champion  more  fit  than  the  poet 
himself  to  defend  the  dignity  and  the  existence  of  his  noble  art." 

This  article  quotes  in  English  translation  also  the  "  The  Lion's 
Ride."  the  "  Amphitrite,"  "  The  Ghost  Caravan,"  "  Freedom 
and  Right,"  and  draws  parallels  between  Freiligrath's  "  Lowen- 
ritt"  and  a  passage  in  Milton's  Paradise  Lost,  (the  description 
of  Satan's  shield),  and  Pringle's  "  The  Lion  and  the  Girafie." 

In  1845  Tait's  Edhibiirgh  Magazine^  presents  in  English 
translation  the  following  poems  of  Freiligrath  :  "  All  Over  the 
Harbor  Gay  with  Flags,"  The  Lion's  Ride,"  "  The  Greek  Girl  at 
the  Fair,"  "  The  Amphitrite,"  "  Leviathan,"  "  The  Buried  City," 

*  Vol.  34  (1844),  365. 

t  May,  1845,  No.   12,  pp.  205-207. 


58  Freiligrath  in  America. 

"The  Death  of  the  Leader,"  "The  Gueux  Watch  Night," 
"  Flowers  Crowd  on  Flowers,"  "  The  Nursery  Song,"  "  The 
Two  Flags,"  "When?"  "A  Patriot,"  and  adds  the  following 
comment : 

"  While,  therefore,  cordially  sympathising  with  the  motives 
which  have  made  our  friend  Freiligrath  throw  down  the  political 
gauntlet,  we  feel  that  he  has  made,  in  doing  so,  a  greater  political 
sacrifice  than  he  seems  to  be  himself  aware  of.  In  one  point  of 
view,  we  honor  him  all  the  more  for  the  price  he  has  paid  for 
what  he  feels,  and  we  feel  with  him,  to  be  above  all  price.  As 
critics  of  poetry — and  we  think  it  is  impossible  to  compare  the 
two  volumes  we  have  been  examining  without  some  regret  of 
the  kind — we  lament  that  any  circumstances  should  have  fretted 
the  current  of  his  genial  nature,  destined  by  the  muse  to  a 
clearer  and  deeper  course,  into  the  foam  and  eddies  of  politics." 

Thus  before  1846,  the  year  of  Freiligrath's  arrival  in  England 
as  voluntary  exile,  the  English-speaking  public  on  both  sides 
of  the  Atlantic  had  been  introduced  to  the  poet  through  his 
writings.  The  next  year,  1847,  LittelVs  Living  Age  copied 
from  the  People^ s  Journal^  an  article  entitled  "  The  Poet  Freili- 
grath in  England,"  by  William  Howitt,  who  was  many  years  a 
close  friend  of  the  poet  and  who  gave  to  English  people  perhaps 
the  best  characterization  of  Freiligrath's  temper  and  poetry 
which  has  appeared  in  the  English  language.  In  this  article, 
which  is  at  once  a  tribute  to  the  poet's  genius  and  also  a  wel- 
come extended  to  him  in  this  public  way  by  his  English  friend, 
Howitt  recalls  the  attention  of  the  English  public  to  the  poet 
Freiligrath  who  is  at  this  time  a  sojourner  in  Eondon : 

"  It  has  always  appeared  to  me  that  the  only  genuine  home 
for  such  a  man  in  such  a  position  was  England.  I  have  there- 
fore never  ceased  to  press  upon  him  to  establish  himself  in 
'the  inviolate  island  of  the  brave  and  free.'  .  .  .  From  the 
impregnable  citadel  of  British  freedom,  from  amid  the  throng  of 
free  men  who  fear  no  tyrant's  deadly  hand,  no  blighting  touch 
of  censor  or  slave  he  will  send  forth  his  heart  in  his  poems  to  his 
countrymen  all  over  the  world.    .    .    .    From  this  day  forwards 


M.  D.  Learned.  59 

England  is  the  home  of  Ferdinand  Freiligrath,  and  as  he  will 
derive  from  us  a  sense  of  personal  security  we  shall  derive  from 
his  presence  the  honor  of  one  more  true  patriot  and  noble  poet 
amongst  us." 

The  next  year,  1848,  we  have  a  very  different  note  struck  in 
the  Prospective  Review  in  an  article  entitled  "  Recent  German 
Poets,  Freiligrath  and  Herwegh."  After  reviewing  Freiligrath's 
Gedichte^  Glaubensbekenntniss^  Ca  ira^  Gedichte  aiis  dcm 
Eiiglischen^  and  Herwegh's  Gedichte  eines  Lebendigen^  the 
reviewer  maintains  that  it  is  not  within  the  sphere  of  the  poet 
to  take  part  in  revolutionary  movements,  but  that  he  should 
rather  be  a  conserving  force  in  the  nation,  and  continues  :  "  With 
these  feelings  we  perceive  with  regret  the  revolutionary  tone 
which  pervades  many  of  the  political  poems  of  Ferdinand  Freili- 
grath, a  man  of  undoubted  genius,  and  one  of  the  most  popular 
living  poets  of  Germany.  To  us  the  term  revolutionary  poem 
seems  an  anomaly ;  spiritual,  not  physical  force  is  the  heaven- 
sanctioned  agency  for  the  regeneration  of  mankind."* 

The  first  sojourn  of  Freiligrath  in  England  was  but  temporary, 
lasting  from  1846  to  1848.  In  the  latter  year,  when  the  revolu- 
tionary disturbance  broke  out  in  Germany,  he  returned  with 
joyful  expectation  of  participating  in  the  triumph  of  the  "  Free- 
dom and  Right,"  heralded  in  his  poem  of  1844.  The  delightful 
prospect  of  the  return  of  the  exiles  to  their  Fatherland  which 
floated  before  the  mind  of  Freiligrath  finds  expression  in  the 
last  hasty  letter  of  his  correspondence  with  Georg  Seidensticker 
— "  Sie  kommen  doch  auch  wieder."t 

But  after  the  fiasco  of  the  "  Marzbewegung,"  having  sufiered 
arrest  and  been  liberated,  the  poet  was  again  obliged  to  seek 
shelter  on  alien  soil,  first  in  Belgium  then  in  Switzerland,  and 
finally,  in  1851,  again  in  England,  where  he  lived  until  1868. 

Of  this  second  sojourn  in  London  we  have  many  interesting 
accounts  both  in  his  letters  and  in  the  writings  of  those  who 
knew  him  at  this  time. 


*  Prospective  Rev. ,  vol.  iv,  p.  34- 

t  Americana  Germanica,  I,  Article  No.  5. 


6o  Freiligrath  in  America. 

The  chief  sources  of  our  information  for  this  period  are  Wil- 
helm  Buchner,  Ferdinand  Freiligrath^  ein  Dichterleben  in  Brie- 
fen^  and  Gisberte  Freiligrath,  Beitrdgc  siir  Biographie  Ferdinand 
FreiligratJis^  only  brief  extracts  from  which  are  allowed  by  the 
limits  of  this  article. 

Of  Freiligrath's  life  in  England,  Dr.  William  Barry  has  given 
the  English-speaking  public  the  following  summary  :  "  Freili- 
grath, though  not  idle  was  mostly  silent,  earning  his  bread  with 
sorrow,  and  not  finding  the  burden  of  time  a  light  one.  He 
suffered  and  beheld  suffering  all  round  ;  in  England  in  spite  of 
its  free  government,  in  London  in  spite  of  its  untold  riches.  He 
became  more  of  a  republican  and  socialist  than  ever,  but  with 
advancing  years  his  style  softened  to  a  clear  affectionate  manner 
of  speech,  nervous  and  delicate,  entirely  free  from  the  blaze  of 
color  that  announced  his  arrival  among  the  poets.  .  .  .  His 
convictions  did  not  alter,  but  he  no  longer  felt  bound  to  deliver 
them.  He  came  to  love  England  and  has  written  much  and 
gracefully  on  the  incidents  of  his  family  life  amongst  us.  Into 
London  society  he  did  not  intrude  himself  ;  on  the  contrary,  .  .  . 
Freiligrath  lived  for  the  most  part  amongst  his  countrymen  and 
was  loved  by  them  as  he  deserved.  In  America  his  renown  in- 
creased greatly,  for  the  causes  that  drove  him  into  exile  were 
and  are  still  in  action,  leading  to  that  immense  migration  of 
Germans  across  the  Atlantic  that  grows  with  the  growth  of 
military  institutions  and  industrial  serfdom  at  home.  The 
emigrants  naturally  honored  him  as  their  poet,  as  one  that  had 
fought  and  suffered  to  keep  them  in  the  old  cities  by  Elbe  and 
Rhine." 

Of  the  literary  friendships  and  acquaintances  which  Freili- 
grath made  during  his  second  period  in  England,  he  tells  us  in 
a  letter :  "  Doch  hab'  ich  schon  manche  interessante  Bekannt- 
schaft  gemacht:  Barry  Cornwall,  Tennyson,  Moncton  Milnes, 
Bulwer  und  A."*  From  Gisberte  Freiligrathf  we  learn  that 
Mr.  Andrew  Johnson  and  Mr.  Pearce,  prominent  merchants  of 


*  Buchner  II,  296. 

t  Beitrage  zur  Biographic,  p.  162-3. 


M.  D.  Learned.  6i 

London,  and  their  families  were  in  heartiest  sympathy  with 
Freiligrath's  literary  tastes  and  exchanged  frequent  visits  with 
the  poet. 

The  poet's  friendly  intercourse  with  Karl  Marx  and  Gottfried 
Kinkel  gradually  lessened  during  the  early  years  of  his  second 
sojourn  in  England,  until  it  was  finally  broken  oflf  altogether. 
Of  the  Germans  in  London  at  the  time,  who  were  close  friends 
of  the  poet,  were  Dr.  E.  Deutsch,  the  Orientalist  of  the  British 
Museum,  Dr.  Appell,  librarian  of  the  Kensington  Museum, 
Professor  Buchheim,  and  the  Brothers  Althaus,  of  Detmold. 
But  the  most  congenial  of  all  his  German  friends  was  Karl 
Blind.  As  a  transient  visitor,  Friedrich  Gerstacker  is  men- 
tioned by  Gisberte  as  "  der  ungemein  fesselnd  von  seinen  Reisen 
und  namentlich  von  Mississippi  erzahlte." 

In  addition  to  his  translations  of  English  poems,  notably 
Longfellow's  "  Hiawatha,"  Freiligrath's  literary  work  included 
studies  on  Coleridge  and  others  published  in  the  London 
AthencBwn. 

Freiligrath's  attention  was  directed  naturally  at  a  very  early 
period  toward  America,  the  refuge  of  thousands  of  German 
exiles  for  conscience  and  liberty's  sake.  His  life  in  Amsterdam 
brought  him  into  direct  contact  both  with  people  and  with  pub- 
lications from  America.  It  was  this  world-mart  of  Northern 
Europe  which  furnished  the  young  poet  with  the  materials  for 
his  early  poems.  Here  he  felt  the  throbbing  heart  of  humanity 
pulsating  in  the  commerce  of  many  lands. 

As  early  as  1832  the  Auswanderer  portrayed  the  vicissitudes 
of  the  emigrating  German,  who  was  then  finding  his  weary  way 
under  the  spell  of  Duden's  book  to  the  banks  of  the  Missouri : 

Das  sind  dieselben  Topf '  und  Kriige 

Oft  an  der  Heimath  Born  gefiillt! 
Wenn  am  Missouri  Alias  schwiege, 

Sie  malten  euch  der  Heimath  Bild. 

The   most  important  reference  to  America  in   Freiligrath's 


62  Freiligrath  in  America. 

early  poems  is  that  one  entitled  "  Audubon  "  (1833).  This  poem 
expresses  the  "  storm  and  stress  "  of  the  young  poet  in  his  violent 
"  return  to  nature  "  ("  aus  den  miszbildungen  der  Kultur  in  die 
Jungfraulichkeit  der  Natur,")  and  reminds  us  of  the  nature-cult 
(Urwaldcultus)  of  Lenau  before  he  had  tasted  the  bitter  of 
Niagara's  dashing  waters,  and  felt  the  pang  of  his  lost  invest- 
ments. Although  Freiligrath's  poem  to  Audubon  is  well-known, 
it  is  not  so  generally  known  that  a  poem  replying  for  Audubon 
answered  it  with  a  more  than  eclipsing  reply,  throwing  down  a 
gauntlet  to  "  Deutschlands  Stern"  and  "groszer  Sanger,"  which 
Freiligrath  seems  not  to  have  been  eager  to  pick  up. 

Ich  vom  Volk  der  Tcherokiesen 

Der  ich  erst  das  Deutsche  lern', 
Werf  den  Handschuh  dir  zu  Fuszen, 

Nimm  ihn  auf,  o  Deutschlands  Stern. 

This  poetical  joust  between  the  "  Trompeter  of  the  Revolu- 
tion "  in  Germany  and  the  great  "  Birdcatcher  "  in  America  was 
published  in  Philadelphia,  the  year  the  Glattbensbekeimtniss  ap- 
peared. It  is  of  such  interest,  as  shedding  light  upon  Freili- 
grath's views  of  America  at  that  time  and  upon  the  reception 
these  views  met  at  the  hands  of  some  Americans  as  to  justify 
reprinting  both  poems  here.  * 

AN   AUDUBON   VON   FREILIGRATH. 

Mann  der  Walder,  der  Savannen  ! 

Neben  rother  Indier  Speer, 
An  des  Mississippi  Tannen 

Lehntest  du  dein  Jagdgewehr  ! 

Reichtest  Indianergreisen 

Deine  Pfeife,  deinen  Krug  : 
Sahst  der  Wandertaube  Reisen 

Und  des  Adlers  stillen  Flug  ; 


*  Reprinted  from  F.  Freiligrath'' s  Epistel  An  Audubon  nebst  einer  Ant- 
wort  aus  America  an  Freiligrath.     Philadelphia,  1844. 


M.  D.  Learned.  6^ 

Lahmtest  ihren  schnellen  Fliigel 

Mit  der  Kugel,  mit  dem  Schrot ; 
Auf  der  groszen  Fliisse  Spiegel 

Durch  die  Wildnisz  schwamm  dein  Boot; 

Kiihn  durchflogst  du  der  Savanna 

Graser,  im  gestreckten  Trab  ; 
Bar'  und  Wildpret  war  das  Manna, 

So  dir  Gott  zur  Speise  gab  ; 

In  den  Waldern,  in  der  Oede, 

Die  der  Thoren  Ruhm  :  Cultur, 
Noch  nicht  iiberzog  mit  Fehde, 

Freutest  du  dich  der  Natur. 

Du  noch  konntest  es  !  die  Stunde 

Kommt,  nicht  fern  mehr  ist  die  Zeit ! 
Wo  das  Land  von  Baffin's  Sunde 

Bis  Cap  Horn  ein  ander  Kleid 

Tragen  wird  !  Sieh'  da  du  reiche, 

Waldige  Columbia, 
Liegst  du  nicht  gleich  einer  Eiche 
Auf  dem  Planiglobe  da  ? 

Aus  des  Siidens  kalten  Meeren 

Wachst  der  macht'ge  Stamm  hervor  ; 
Schlangelnd  ziehn  die  Cordilleren — 

Epheu  ! — sich  an  ihm  empor. 

Hoch  am  Norden  in  die  Breite 

Geht  er,  wenig  mehr  belaubt ; 
An  den  Pol  riihrt  das  beschneite, 

Eisgehang'ne,  starre  Haupt. 

Hirsche  ruhn  in  seinem  Schatten, 

An  Geflijgel  ist  er  reich. 
Und  der  Indier  Hangematten 

Schweben  nieder  vom  Gezweig. 


64  Freiligrath  in  America. 

Griin  und  uppig  prangt  der  Starke  ; 

Doch  bald  steht  er  ohne  Zier  ; 
Denn  an  seiner  Blatter  Marke 

Zehrt  der  Wanderraupe  Gier. 


Nadowessier,  Tschippewaer, 

Heult  den  Kriegsruf,  werft  den  Speer  ! 
Schiittelt  ab  die  Europaer  ! 

Schiittelt  ab  das  Raupenheer  ! 

Seit  in  eure  Hirschfellhiitten 

Trat  des  Meeres  kluger  Sohn, 
1st  die  Reinheit  eurer  Sitten, 

1st  der  Gliick  von  euch  geflohn, 

Weh' ,  dasz  ihr  ihn  nicht  verscheuchtet, 
Da  er  Land  von  euch  erfleht'  ! 

Wen',  dasz  ihr  ihm  arglos  reichtet 
Das  geschmiickte  Kalumet  ! 

Nieder  brennt  er  eure  wilden 

Walder,  nimmt  von  euch  Tribut, 

Spiilt  von  euren  Lederschilden 
Der  erschlagenen  Feinde  Blut ; 

Saus't  einher  auf  Eisenbahnen, 
Wo  getobt  der  Rothen  Kampf  ; 

Bunt  von  Wimpeln  und  von  Fahnen, 
Theilt  sein  Schiff  den  Strom  durch  Dampf 

Kahl  und  niichtern  jede  Statte  ! 

Wo  Manitto's  hehrer  Hauch 
Durch  des  Urwald's  Dickicht  wehte, 

Zieht  der  Hammerwerke  Ranch. 

Euer  Wild  wird  ausgerottet, 
Siech  gemacht  wird  euer  Leib. 

Euer  groszer  Geist  verspottet, 
Und  geschandet  euer  Weib. 


M.  D.  Learned.  65 

Bietet  Trotz  ihr  Tattowirtcn, 

Eurer  Feindin,  der  Cultur  ! 
Knupft  die  Stirnhaut  von  scalpierten 
Weiszen  an  des  Giirtels  Schnur  ! 


Ziirnend  ihren  Missionairen 

Aus  den  Handen  schlagt  das  Buch  ; 
Denn  sie  wollen  euch  bekehren, 

Zahm,  gesittet  machen,  klug. 

Weh',  zu  spat  !  was  hilft  euch  Sabel, 
Tomahawk  und  Lanzenschaft  ? 

Alles  glatt  und  fashionable  ! 

Doch  wo — Tiefe,  Frische  Kraft. 

F.  Freiligrath. 


ANTWORT   AUS   AMERIKA 
AN   FREILIGRATH. 

Audubon,  den  Vogelf anger 
Sangst  du  an,  mit  Herzeleid  ; 

Freiligrath,  o  groszer  Sanger  ! 
Deine  Lieder  Fliegen  weit. 

Flogen  her  bis  zu  den  "  Indiern" 
Die  du  wunderlich  beschreibst, 

Die,  so  denkst  du,  niemals  hindern 
Werden  was  du  driiben  treibst. 

Ich  vom  Volk  der  Tscherokiesen, 
Der  ich  erst  das  Deutsche  lern,' 

Werf  den  Handschuh  dir  zu  Fuszen, 
Nimm  ihn  auf,  o  Deutschlands  Stern. 

Wisse  dasz  wir  Nationen, 

Die  ihr  driiben  "Indier"  nennt 

Nur  dasselbe  Land  bewohnen, 
Sprache,  Sitte,  Hasz  uns  trennt. 


66  Freiligrath  in  America. 

Welszt  du  wie  sich  "  Indier  "  hassen  ? 

Wie  auf  blutiger  Wechselbank 
Sie  nur  Skalp  um  Skalp  erlassen, 

Wahrt  es  auch  Aeonen  lang  ? 

Wie  es  wachst  von  Stamm  zu  Stamme 
Und  vom  Vater  erbt's  der  Sohn, 

Dasz  der  blutgen  Rache  Flamme 
Tilgte  ganze  Volker  schon  ? 

Doch  der  Weisze  kann  vergessen, 
Er  gehorcht  des  Richter's  vSpruch 

Seine  Grenzen  kann  er  messen 
Seine  Rechte  halt  das  Buch. 

Sah  ein  knab  ich  auf  zur  Eiche  : 

"Vater,  dort  ein  Hummelschwarm  !" 

Sprach  der  Vater  :  ' '  Wohl,  ich  weiche 
Vor  des  groszen  Geistes  Arm." 

"  Denn  es  kommen  her  vor  ihnen, 
Auf  dem  Zuge  durch  die  Welt, 

Angeflogen  jene  Bienen 
Die  Gott  ihnen  zugesellt. 

Nicht  ihr  Schwert  wiird'  uns  erreichen, 

Unsre  Pfeile  toden  auch  ; 
Doch  die  Pflugschaar  macht  uns  weichen 

Und  der  Schmiedeessen  Ranch. 

Trag'  den  Bogen  :  Kannst  du  retten  ? 

Trag'  den  Pfeil :  ob  er's  gedacht 
Dasz  in  tausendjahrigen  Betten 

Schlief  der  Kohlenfloze  Macht. 

Die  verheerten  Graber  klagen  ; 

Hemmt's  des  Rades  machtge  Herr(e)n? 
Hemmt's  die  Axt  im  Waldermagen? 

Kann  die  Wuth  den  Weg  ihr  sperren  ? 

Wir  sind  dem  Gericht  verfallen, 
Heimathlos  entweichen  wir  ; 

Unsres  Herbstes  Blatter  fallen 
Und  kein  Friihling  folgt  uns  hier. 


M.  D.  Learned.  67 

Hochster  Stolz  der  Waldgebornen, 

Sterben  unverzagt  als  Mann  ! 
Zeigt  den  eisernen  Verschwornen, 

Dasz  ein  Volk  so  sterben  kann. 

Sind  wir  dort  nur  nicht  geschieden 

Von  den  Ahnen,  anerkannt 
Dort  auf  jenen  Jagdgebieten, 

In  der  Geister  groszem  Land." 

Und  so  sprach  mein  greiser  Vater, 

Unsre  Augen  warden  nasz, 
Schlichtete  den  alten  Hader, 

Und  ertodete  den  Hasz. 

Viel  erwuchs  aus  diesem  Keime  ; 

Ostwarts  lenkten  wir  den  Blick. 
Immer  bringen  schone  Reime 

In  die  Walder  uns  zuriick. 

War  dies  schone  Land  der  Lander 

Nur  ein  Lehn  der  rothen  Haut, 
Die  Erobrer  und  die  Schander 

Sichern  dem  es  der's  bebaut. 

Was  im  Kommen  sie  zertraten, 

Das  that  nur  der  Pferde  Huf  ; 
Doch  der  Wagen,  hoch  geladen, 

Brachte  was  der  Geist  erschuf. 

Da  wo  Klapperschlangen  lagen, 

Schreibt  der  Compasz  Wege  vor ; 
Wo  ich  selbst  noch  Bar'n  erschlagen 

Hebt  sich  hoch  ein  Himmelsrohr.* 

Ihrer  Forscher  Werke  fliegen 

Statt  der  Tauben  uber's  Land, 
Und  die  Wissenschaften  liegen 

In  der  armsten  Knaben  Hand. 


*  This  foot-note  is  added  in  the  print  of  1844 :  Das  war,  wo  jetzt  Cincinnati 
steht,  wnd  wo  in  diesem  Jahre  John  Quincy  Adams,  ein  groszer  Mann,  ein  Mann 
der  Kraft ;  und  mehr  als  Eure  Romer,  die  Erdffnungsrede  der  astronomischen 
Gesellschaft  hielt,  welche  die  Sternwarte  gebaut  hat. 


68  Freiligrath  in  America. 

Komm  und  sieh  !  lasz  dich  zermalmen, 
Wo  die  Presse  Wunder  schafft, 

Wo  gebannte  Strome  qualmen, 

Frage  da  nach  "  Frische,"  "  Kraft," 

Und  das  Buch  !  das  Buch  der  Biicher  ? 
Sangst  so  schon  von  dem  Kameel, 

Macht'  Arabien  dich  nicht  kliiger? 
Hielt's  umdammert  deine  Seel  ? 

Der  den  Missionar  verbrannte, 
Und  mit  Trotz  zuriick  es  weist ; 

Der,  gerecht  doch,  anerkannte 
Dieses  Buch  dem  groszen  Geist. 

Bist  du  nicht  von  jenem  Stamme, 
Deren  Wang'  errothen  kann  ? 

Schaam  als  Rose,  Zorn  als  Flamme, 
Zieren  beide  nicht  den  Mann? 

Lasz  die  Rose  dann  dich  rothen, 
Deines  Stammes  schonste  Zier, 

Dasz  du  riefst :  Wir  sollten  toden  ! 
Meinst  du  dich  ?  Und  singst  es  dir  ? 

Deiner  Lieder  Prachtlianen 

Hangen  an  der  Weiszen  Baum, 

Schwingen  dort,  wie  Siegesfahnen, 
Hoch  sich  in  des  Himmels  Raum. 

Wilest  du  dasz  sie  ferner  leben, 
Willst  du  hier  Unsterblichkeit : 

Nur  der  weiszen  Volker  Streben 
Ueberwindet  Raum  und  Zeit. 

Willst  du  nicht?     Nun,  so  verschwinde  ! 

Doch  da  driiben  hiite  dich  ! 
Dasz  dich  dort  kein  "  Indier"  finde 
Zornroth — sonst  skalpirt  er  dich. 

Dr.  Angmarset. 


M.  D.  Learned:  69 

In  the  year  1842,  the  year  Freiligrath  was  pensioned  by  the 
King  of  Prussia,  he  made  the  acquaintance  of  our  American 
poet  Longfellow,  who  has  left  us  a  most  interesting  account  of 
his  impression  of  the  rising  German  poet. 

"  Yesterday  I  went  with  a  party  to  St.  Goar.  On  the  steam- 
boat I  saw  the  first  beautiful  woman  I  have  seen  in  Germany. 
I  scaled  two  ancient  ruins,  and  sitting  alone  amid  solitary  walls 
indulged  myself  in  a  little  romance.  I  likewise  made  the  ac- 
quaintance of  a  poet — one  of  the  best  of  the  young  poets  of  Ger- 
many. His  name  is  Freiligrath.  I  found  him  writing  in  a  very 
pleasant  room  overlooking  the  Rhine  (I  wonder  how  many  times  I 
shall  use  that  phrase  before  I  return  home)  and  near  him,  writing 
a  letter,  his  wife.  They  are  exceedingly  agreeable.  Imagine  Dr. 
Follen  with  long,  thick,  black  hair  and  a  moustache  and  beard 
flowing  into  each  other  like  the  Mosel  and  the  Rhine, — and 
behold  Ferdinand  Freiligrath !  His  poetry  is  fresh  and  vir- 
tuous?'''^ 

The  next  year,  1843,  William  Howitt's  book,  which  had  given 
the  English  people  a  clear  characterization  of  Freiligrath  in 
1842,  was  re-published  in  America  under  the  title : 

The  Rural  and  Domestic  Life  of  Germany  with  Characteris- 
tic Sketches  of  its  Cities  and  Scenery^  collected  in  a  General 
Tour^  and  during  a  Residence  in  the  Country  in  the  years 
1840-^2.  By  William  Howitt.  Author  of  The  Rural  Life  oj 
England^  Visits  to  Remarkable  Places^  The  Boy^s  Country  Book^ 
etc.     Philadelphia.     Carey  &,  Hart,  1843. 

Thus  the  poet  by  the  year  1844  was  no  longer  a  stranger  to 
American  readers,  who  were  better  able  to  appreciate  his  political 
sentiments  than  the  Englishman  upon  whose  ears  they  fell. 

With  the  publication  of  the  Glaubensbekenntniss  in  1844 
Freiligrath  soon  felt  forced  to  revive  his  early  dream  of  visiting 
foreign  lands ;  this  time,  however,  not  for  pleasure,  as  he  had 
hoped  in  his  early  reading  of  books  of  travel,  but  for  shelter  from 
hostility  at  home.     The  report  was  current  that  he  even  this 

*  Letter  to  Mrs.  Andrews  Norton,  June   12,    1842    (S.  Longfellow's  Henry 
Wadsworth  Longfellow^  i,  426. 


yo  Freiligrath  in  America. 

early  contemplated  settling  in  America,  and  it  is  true  that 
tempting  inducements  were  held  out  to  him  to  join  the  German 
colony  then  settling  in  Texas.  He  has  left  us  in  a  letter  an 
account  of  this  offer : 

"Die  Frankfurter  O.  Postamtszeitung  soil  mich  gratis  nach 
Amerika  reisen  lassen.  Daran  ist  zu  Deiner  Beruhigung,  wenn 
Dich  der  Artikel  etwa  alarmirt  haben  sollte,  nur  dies  wahr : 
Ich  machte  vor  sex  Wochen  ungefahr  mit  Ida  eine  kleine  Tour 
nach  Antwerpen,  lernte  dort  einen  Deutschamerikaner  aus  New- 
york  kennen,  der  fiir  mein  Glaubensbekenntnisz  schwarmte, 
und  besuchte  ihn  auf  seine  Einladung  zweimal  auf  seinem 
Schiflfe,  dem  prachtvollen  Dreimaster  Probus,  den  er  eben  mit 
ein  paar  Hundert  Auswanderer  nach  Texas  abgehen  lassen 
wollte."* 

The  account  goes  on  to  say  that  the  captain  of  the  ship  sent 
a  letter  to  Freiligrath  the  next  day  containing,  "nobel  und 
delikat  gefaszt,  das  Anerbieten  freier  Ueberfahrt  fiir  mich  und 
meine  Frau,"  which  Freiligrath  declined  with  thanks. 

The  true  state  of  Freiligrath's  mind,  however,  is  revealed 
in  a  letter  written  to  his  mother  and  family  from  Brussels,  Nov. 
1 8,  1844.  This  letter  shows  clearly  that  he  had  at  this  time  no 
notion  of  taking  up  his  residence  in  the  new  world,  but  rather 
intended  to  keep,  as  nearly  as  possible,  to  the  borders  of  his 
native  land.  Having  outlined  his  purpose  of  settling  "  in 
irgend  einem  traulichen  Ufereckchen  der  Maas,"  perhaps  at  Huy, 
he  adds :  "  Was  ihr  sonst  etwa  hort,  ich  ginge  nach  Amerika 
und  dergleichen  ist  gelogen  und  aus  der  Luft  gegriffen.  Wenn 
mich  Gott  gesund  und  am  Leben  laszt,  denk  ich  Frankreich, 
England  und  Nordamerika  noch  zu  besuchen,  aber  nicht  um 
dort  wohnen  zu  bleiben."t 

During  his  " Wander jahre"  in  Germany  after  1848,  his  thought 
still  turned  toward  America.     In  the  year  1850  he  wrote  his 


*  An  Levin  Schiicking  [Briissel]  Sylvester,  1844,  Buchner  ii,  136. 
t  Gisberte  Freiligrath  Beitr'dge  S.  151-152. 


M.  D.  Learned.  71 

poem  Californien  which  he  did  not  allow  to  appear  in  the  first 
edition  of  his  collected  poems.* 

The  most  serious  consideration,  perhaps,  which  Freiligrath 
gave  to  migrating  to  America  was  that  occasioned  by  rumors 
(in  the  year  1854)  of  Longfellow's  resignation  of  the  chair  of 
Modern  Languages  at  Harvard  University,  f 

It  seems  that  he  entertained  a  faint  hope  that  he  might  receive 
the  appointment  to  this  chair,  and  both  Longfellow  and  Beck 
were  in  communication  with  the  German  poet  (then  in  England) 
with  reference  to  the  matter.  | 

But  as  the  candidates  for  the  place  were  all  friends  of  Long- 
fellow, he  was  unable  to  make  special  effort  for  any  one.  Besides, 
as  he  says  in  the  letter,  the  authorities  were  likely  to  prefer  an 
American.  What  might  have  been  the  result  to  American  let- 
ters with  Ferdinand  Freiligrath  as  Professor  of  German  Litera- 
ture in  Harvard  University  is  a  matter  of  very  interesting 
speculation. 

From  this  time  Freiligrath  seems  to  have  settled  down  to  his 
old  plan  of  living  in  England.  His  purpose  of  visiting  America 
was  kept  alive  in  his  later  years  by  the  emigration  of  his  two 
surviving  sons,  Wolfgang  and  Percy,  to  America.  In  fact  the 
other  son  Otto,  who  died  young,  had  only  been  dissuaded  from 
coming  to  Montreal  by  the  earnest  entreaties  of  his  father. 
Wolfgang  sailed  for  America  June  25,  1871,  and  settled  first  in 
St.  Peter,  Minnesota,  as  fur-trader.  Buchner  states  that  he  went 
later  to  California.  Wolfgang  returned  to  England  in  1873  to 
marry  Miss  Eastman,  and  their  son  was  called  Ferdinand  to 
perpetuate  the  name  of  the  poet.  Percy  was  sent  by  his  em- 
ployers in  Antwerp  in  the  summer  of  1872  to  America,  but 
returned  to  make  his  home  with  his  mother  in  Diisseldorf. 

As  a  proof  of  the  popularity  of  Freiligrath  in  America,  we 


*  Cf.  F.  Freiligrath' s  gesammelte  Gedichten,  5  Aufl.  3,  221.  fF.  Stuttgart, 
1886. 

t  The  chair  to  which  Professor  Lowell  was  appointed  in  1S55. 

X  Cf.  Longfellow's  letters  in  Samuel  Longfellow's  H.  W.  Longfelloiv,  ii,  269f  ; 
286. 


72  Freiligrath  in  America. 

may  mention  the  fact  that  his  collected  works  in  six  volumes 
appeared  in  New  York  in  1858-9.  Of  the  English  translations  of 
his  poems  we  hope  to  speak  at  another  time,  and  need  only  to 
refer  here  to  his  Selected  Poems^  translated  into  English^  and 
published  by  his  oldest  daughter  Kate.  The  next  year,  1859, 
Freiligrath  wrote  his  twin  poems,  Zur  Schillerfeier^  10.  Novem- 
ber, 1859.  ^5  Festlied  der  Deutschen  in  London  ;  2^  Festlied  der 
Dnetschen  in  Amerika.  The  first  poem  was  set  to  music  by 
Ernst  Pauer  and  produced  in  the  Crystal  Palace  before  the 
Mannerchor  Societies.  By  some  misunderstanding  the  second  * 
was  not  set  to  music,  but  recited  or  read  before  the  assembled 
German  Societies  of  Philadelphia  and  published  in  the  Phila- 
delphia Demokrat^  Turn-Zcitimg^  etc. 

Freiligrath  was  more  or  less  closely  acquainted  with  many 
prominent  Germans  in  America,  Gisberte  mentions  the  family 
Kapp,  and  Buchner  shows  us  his  relations  to  Heinzen,  Karl 
Schurz  and  others,  t 

The  golden  links  in  the  chain  of  Freiligrath's  friendship  with 
Americans  was  his  long  and  intimate  acquaintance  with  the 
poet  Longfellow.  From  the  first  meeting  at  St.  Goar  in  1842 
till  the  last  years  of  Freiligrath's  life  the  bond  of  sympathy 
between  the  two  poets  continued  strong  in  spite  of  the  vicissitudes 
of  the  years.  The  efforts  of  Longfellow  to  secure  a  position  in 
America  for  Freiligrath  were  rewarded  richly  by  the  latter's 
German  translations  of  the  American  poet's  poems.  The  Ger- 
man Hiawatha  (1857)  became  almost  as  popular  as  the  American 
original  and  contributed  greatly  to  the  fame  of  Longfellow 
beyond  the  Atlantic.  When  the  critical  organs  of  the  time  in 
England  were  puzzled  over  the  metre  of  Hiawatha^  it  was 
Freiligrath  who  gave  the  best  solution  of  the  problem. 

The  last  thoughts  of  the  German  poet  after  his  return  from 
exile  turned  to  his  American  friend.  In  his  Trinkspruch  (1870) 
he  closes  with  this  reference  to  the  American  poet : 


*  Written  at  the  request  of  the  Philadelphia  Schiller-Comite. 
t  For  Georg  Seidensticker  see  next  article. 


AT.  D.  Leamied.  73 

So  wird  es  der*  an  Ruhm  nicht  mangeln 

So,  ebenbiirtig',  stellst  du  froh 
Dich  einst  zum  Bruderchor  der  Angeln 

Zu  Bryant  und  zu  Longfellow  ! 
Dem  Pfade  Heil,  den  du  betreten  ! 

Wir  griissen  dich,  wir  sind  dir  nah 
Das  Glas  getiillt !  Hoch  die  Poeten, 

Die  deutschen,  in  Amerika  ! 

Then  among  his  very  last  words  in  a  letter  to  Karl  Elze  he 
pays  this  farewell  tribute  to  Longfellow,  which  are  the  most 
fitting  expressions  of  the  tender  ties  which  unite  the  two  great 
lands,  Germania  and  America  : 

"  Kennst  du  Longfellow's  nobles  Gedicht  Morittiri  Salutanms^ 
welches  er  vorigen  Sommer  seinen  i825er  Classengenossen  im 
Bowdoin  College  wedmete  ?  Du  findest  es  in  dem  eben  erschien- 
enen  jiingsten  Bandchen  Longfellow'scher  Gedichte :  The 
Masque  of  Pandora  atid  other  poems. 

Morittiri  Sahitanms  /  Ein  wehmiithiger  aber  doch  tapfrer 
Zug  des  Scheidens  und  Abschiednehmens  geht  audi  durch 
viele  der  "  andern  "  Gedichte,  Dear^  dear  Longfellow  !"  f 

M.  D.  LEARNED. 

UNIVERSITY  OF  PENNSYI,VANIA, 
PHII,ADEI.PHIA, 


*  The  ' '  Junge  Schaar' '  of  German- American  poets. 

|-  Buchner  ii,  458.     An  Karl  Elze,  c.  i.  i.,  76. 

The  library  of  Freiligrath  came  into  the  collection  of  J.  M.  Sears  of  Boston. 
The  list  of  the  works  collected  by  the  poet  gives  ample  evidence  of  his  love  for 
English  classics,  and  is  to  be  found  printed  in  the  Catalogue  of  the  Library  of 
/.  Montgomery  Sears,  etc.     Cambridge,  1882. 


UNPUBLISHED   LETTERS 

OF   FERDINAND   FREILIGRATH 

TO   DR.   GEORGE   F.   SEIDENSTICKER. 


The  correspondence  between  Dr.  George  F.  Seidensticker  and 
Ferdinand  Freiligrath  is  one  of  interest  and  importance  as 
shedding  new  light  upon  the  history  of  the  period.  It  will  be 
in  place  here  to  review  the  facts  relating  to  the  political  con- 
ditions which  occasioned  the  letters  printed  below.  This  brief 
survey  will  furnish  abundant  reasons  for  the  bond  of  sympathy 
existing  between  Dr.  Seidensticker  and  the  poet  Freiligrath. 

In  the  political  disturbances  leading  up  to  the  outbreak  of 
1848,  Seidensticker  plays  a  significant  role  and  represents  the 
revolutionary  issues  of  1830  in  their  relation  to  those  of  forty- 
eight,  thus  fonning  a  transition  from  the  early  political  fugitives 
to  America,  Beck,  Follen  and  Lieber,  who  came  in  the  twenties, 
to  the  great  army  of  forty-eighters  of  whom  Seidensticker  was 
a  forerunner. 

Seidensticker's  part  in  the  revolution  of  Hannover  began  with 
January,  1831.  While  the  situation  under  George  IV.,  William 
IV.  and  the  Duke  of  Cambridge  with  his  omnipotent  minister 
Count  von  Miinster  was  assuming  a  serious  aspect,  the  political 
excitement  and  dissatisfaction  culminated  in  Osterode  and  Gottin- 
gen  in  an  open  bill  of  indictment  against  von  Miinster's  ministry 
and  in  petitioning  the  government  for  the  establishment  of  a 
militia  or  civic  guard.  In  Gottingen  matters  came  to  a  crisis  in 
January,  1831,  a  civic  guard  was  organized  with  Seidensticker 
at  its  head,  a  city  council  was  elected  with  him  among  the 
number,  proclamations  were  issued,  deputations  were  sent  to 
Hannover  and  the  citizens  were  furnished  with  arms.  Seiden- 
sticker and  the  other  participants  of  this  "revolt"  were  taken 
prisoners  and  subjected  to  penal  investigations.  Seidensticker 
and  Eggeling  were   sentenced  to  life-long  imprisonment,   the 


Clara  Seidensticker.  75 

former  on  the  charge  of  publicly  reading  the  article  of  prosecu- 
tion of  the  Miinster  ministry,  of  being  a  member  of  the  city 
council,  of  being  commander  of  the  civic  guard,  of  having 
signed  a  proclamation  of  the  citizens  and  of  being  responsible 
for  the  rebellious  outbreak.*  Despite  repeated  petitions  for 
pardon  and  the  intervention  of  sympathizers,  it  was  not  until  1845 
that  Seidensticker  was  released  on  condition  of  expatriation. 

Though  strenuous  efforts  were  made  to  transport  him  to 
America  as  secretly  as  possible,  many  friends  greeted  him  on 
the  way  to  embarkation.  He  arrived  in  America  in  March, 
1846 — a  few  months  before  Freiligrath  landed  in  England  as  a 
political  exile. 

Seidensticker's  arrival  in  America  was  anxiously  awaited  and 
he  was  greeted  at  his  landing  in  New  York  by  representatives 
of  the  city  and  a  large  number  of  sympathizing  citizens. 

"  Er  wurde  vielerorts  mit  freudigen  Demonstrationen  be- 
griisst ;  Versammlungen,  Banquets,  Gliickwunschschreiben  und 
Geschenke  bewiesen  ihm  die  herzliche  Sympathie  seiner  hiesi- 
gen  Landsleute.  Es  war  fast  zu  viel  Licht  nach  so  langer 
Finsterniss."t 

In  Philadelphia,  Dr.  Schmoele,  who  had  six  years  before 
(1840)  proffered  his  hospitality  to  Seidensticker,  now  made  good 
his  promise.  In  the  fall  of  this  year,  Mr.  Wollenweber  offered 
him  the  editorship  of  the  Philadelphia  Dejnokrat^  which  he 
accepted,  having  nothing  better  in  view. 

He  began  at  once  to  solicit  contributions  for  the  paper  from 
friends  in  Germany.  It  was  at  this  time  that  he  opened  a  cor- 
respondence with  Ferdinand  Freiligrath,  who  was  then  sojourn- 
ing in  London.  Freiligrath's  well-known  revolutionary  attitude 
was  sufficient  guarantee  of  his  willingness  to  contribute  to  German 
papers  in  America,  which  sympathized  with  the  cause  of  liberty 
in  the  Fatherland.  This  reply  to  Seidensticker's  first  letter 
leaves  no  doubt  on  this  question  :  "Mit  dem  grossten  Vergniigen 


*  MS.  of  the  late  Prof.  Seidensticker. 
t  Manuscript. 


76  Letters  of  Freiligrath. 

bin  ich  bereit  Ihren  mir  geausserten  Wiinsclien  riicksichtlich 
des  P]iiladelphia  Dejnokraten  zii  entsprechen."* 

In  addition  to  his  promise  to  contribute  articles  of  his  own, 
Freiligrath  interested  himself  in  securing  correspondence  from 
others,  as,  for  example,  Carl  Buchner,  Hoffmann  v.  Fallersleben, 
Carl  Heinzen. 

Under  date  of  January,  1847,  Gustav  v.  Struve  writes  from 
Mannheim  to  Seidensticker,  intimating  the  receipt  of  a  letter 
from  Oppermann  in  Hoya  ;  he  asks  him  for  contributions  and  ex- 
changes with  America  ;  Struve  expresses  his  willingness  to  send 
his  paper  Dentscher  Zuschauer  and  also  larger  works  of  "  pub- 
licistischen  Inhalts  "  :  Akte?istucke  der  Badischen  Ze7isur  und 
Polizei ;  Briefwechsel  zwischen  einem  ehenialigen  und  emem 
jetzigeji  Diplomaten  ;  Politisches  Taschenbiich  fur  das  Deutsche 
Volk ;  Das  offentliche  Recht  des  deiitschen  Bundes.  He  says 
that  an  exchange  of  ideas  would  not  only  be  of  interest  to  the 
emigrants  but  to  all  Germans  who  are  open  to  republican 
views. 

Before  many  of  the  contributions  had  arrived,  however, 
Seidensticker  had  severed  his  connection  with  the  Demokrat 
and  founded  a  new  paper  (weekly)  called  Der  Bi'irgerfreund^ 
the  first  number  of  which  appeared  May  i,  1847.  '^^^^  reasons 
for  the  change  are  set  forth  in  the  following  letter  to  Germany, 
dated  1847:  "Die  friiher  einzige  deutsche  Zeitung  hier  war 
niimlich  ein  elendes  Sudelblatt.f  Die  gebildeten  Deutschen 
wiinschten  eine  bessere  und  beredeten  mich  die  Redaction  zu 
iibernehmen.  Ich  iiberzeugte  mich  aber  je  langer  je  mehr,  dass 
der  Drucker  und  Herausgeber  ein  Erzlump  und  Sudelkoch  war  ; 
dieserhalb  warf  ich  das  Joch  plotzlich  wieder  ab,  und  habe  nun 
eine  eigene  Zeitung  unter  dem  Titel  der  Burgerfreund  gegriin- 
det,  die  jedenSamstag  herauskommt.t 

The  change,  though  not  at  first  understood  in  Germany,  soon 


*  Cf.  Letters. 

t  Mr.  Morwitz,  the  father  of  Mr.  Joseph  Morwitz,  the  present  proprietor  of 
the  Democrat,  was  not  connected  with  the  paper  till  1854. 
X  Unfinished  letter  in  MS. 


Clara  Seideiisticker.  77 

became  clear  to  Freiligrath,  who  promised  his  support  then  to 
the  new  paper.* 

The  political  attitude  of  the  Burgerfreund  was  in  sympathy 
with  the  revolutionist  party  in  Germany  and  expressed  the 
political  views  of  the  editor  himself.  "  Seine  politische  Stellung 
in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  betrefTend,  so  fiel  er  anfangs  der 
demokratischen  Partei  gewissermassen  in  die  Anne ;  aber  er 
war  auch  einer  der  ersten  deutschen  Demokraten  in  Philadelphia 
die  sich  der  Freesoil-Partei  anschlossen  und  es  war  vorziiglich 
seinem  Einflusse  beizumessen,  dass  die  eine  der  zwei  hiesigen 
demokratischen  Zeitungen,  die  Freie  Presse^  das  Banner  der 
neuen  Partei  aufzog."t 

The  many  correspondences  in  the  Burgerfreund  from  London 
and  different  cities  of  Germany  bear  evidence  of  the  success 
with  which  Freiligrath  met  in  soliciting  others  to  take  an  in- 
terest in  the  paper.  In  the  letter  dated  March  3,  1847,  Freili- 
grath mentions  two  poems  by  Hoffmann  von  Fallersleben.  Of 
these  the  second,  Gegen  liberalthziendes  belletristisches  Ge- 
schmeiss^  appeared  in  the  "  Probe-nummer"  of  the  Burger- 
freund^ May  I,  1847.  ^^^  "  Miinchener  Blamage,"  to  which 
he  refers  humorously,  was  the  commotion  occasioned  or  rather 
crowned  by  the  escapade  of  King  Louis  of  Bavaria  with  Lola 
Montez.l  The  dissatisfaction  of  the  people  with  the  govern- 
ment had  again  been  making  itself  felt.  The  opposition  of 
Church  and  State,  of  the  wealthy  aristocracy  and  the  poverty- 
stricken  lower  classes,  was  raised  to  its  highest  pitch  in  Ba- 
varia, when  it  became  known  that  the  king  was  in  the  power 
of  Lola  Montez,  a  Spanish  dancer,  who  urged  him  to  deeds  of 
wild  extravagance  and  folly.  He  quarrelled  with  the  ultra- 
montane party  who  had  ruled  him  and  the  country  for  years  ; 
he  ordered  the  university  to  be  closed  and  the  students  to  leave 
for  not  showing  proper  respect  to  the  "  Countess  of  Landsfeldt." 

The  articles  referred  to  in  his  fourth  letter  (July  3,  1847),  ^^ 

*  Letter  3. 

t  Manuscript. 

X  C£  Burgerfreund,  pp.  323,  340  and  371. 


78  Letters  of  Freiligrath. 

*'  Beitrage  von  Heinzen,"  were  published  in  the  Burgerfreund 
and  entitled:  "Die  Lage  der  Scliweiz,"  (July  24,  1847)  and 
"  Politisches  Capriccio,"  (Aug.  21  and  28,  1847).  February  of 
the  year  1848  brought  the  "  glorreiche  Revolution,"  mentioned 
in  letter  6,  stirring  the  republican  spirits  in  Germany  again  and 
urging  them  to  make  another  attempt  to  break  the  omnipotency 
of  their  monarchical  governments.  When  the  government  of 
Baden  granted  the  demands  of  the  people  and  conceded  priv- 
ileges to  them,  Wiirtemburg,  Saxony  and  other  German  States 
at  once  made  the  same  demands  of  their  respective  governments. 
In  Austria,  Prince  Metternich  ("Metternich  zum  Teufel,"  letter 
7),  president  of  the  ministerial  council,  whose  principle  had  been 
to  defend  majesty  at  any  price  against  the  attacks  of  the  new 
party,  was  forced  to  resign  his  office  and  take  refuge  in  England. 

The  contributions  mentioned  in  No.  7,  "  Anliegend  eine 
Kleinigkeit,"  and  in  No.  8  "  Inliegend  ein  Beitrag,"  came  after 
the  Burgerfreiuid  had  been  discontinued.  * 

The  March  days  of  Berlin — the  street  battle  of  fourteen 
hours  or  more,  "  das  Berliner  Blut  will  mir  nicht  aus  dem 
Kopf  " — effected  freedom  of  the  press,  formation  of  militia  for 
the  defense  of  the  city,  and  unconditional  amnesty  for  all 
political  prisoners.  This  was  soon  to  be  followed  by  similar 
demonstrations  in  other  States.  In  Hannover  the  revolution 
forced  from  old  Ernst  Augustus  the  reinstatement  of  political 
fugitives. 

The  friends  in  Germany,  as  well  as  many  of  the  exiles  them- 
selves, hoped  and  expected  that  those  who  had  been  expatriated 
would  return.  Hence  Freiligrath's  pathetic  appeal  in  his  last 
hasty  epistle  to  Seidensticker  :    "  Sie  kommen  doch  wieder." 


*  The  Burgerfreund  appeared  from  May  i,  1847,  to  March  iS,  184S,  having 
been  discontinued  because  of  the  illness  of  Dr.  Seidensticker. 


Clara  Seidensiicker.  79 

London^  J.  Feb.^  ^^47- 
Libber,  hochgeehrter  Herr  : 

Ihr  giitiger  Brief  vom  30.  Nov.  ist  mir  eine  grosse  und  wahre 
Freude  gewesen,  u.  ich  danke  Ihnen  aufrichtig  und  von  Her- 
zen  fiir  das  ehrende  Vertrauen,  welches  sie  mir  dadurch  be- 
wiesen  haben.  Glauben  Sie,  dass  ich  dasselbe  seinem  ganzen 
hohen  Werthe  nach  zu  schatzen  weiss,  11.  dass  ich  mit  dank- 
barem  Stolze  in  Ihre,  des  edlen  schwergepruften  Dulders,  mir 
so  freundlich  gebotene  Rechte  einschlage  ! 

Mit  dem  grossten  Vergniigen  bin  ich  bereit,  Ihren  mir 
geausserten  Wiinschen  riicksichtlich  des  "  Philadelphia  Demo- 
kraten"  zu  entsprechen.  Ich  habe  demnach,  trotz  meiner  viel- 
fachen  Berufsgeschafte,  sofort  an  eine  Menge  gleichgesinnter 
Freunde  auf  dem  Continent  geschrieben,  und  von  vielen  der- 
selben  auch  schon  Zuzagen  fiir  Sie  erhalten.  Leider  aber  sind 
dieselben,  bis  jetzt  wenigstens,  noch  nicht  erfiillt  worden,  und 
ich  bin  deswegen,  zu  meinem  grossen  u.  lebhaften  Bedauern, 
heute  noch  nicht  im  Stande,  Ihnen  Etwas  beizulegen.  Jeden- 
falls  aber  hofFe  ich  dass  dies  mit  nachstem  Steatner  wird 
geschehen  konnen,  und  dass  dann  auch  zwei  Parthie  deutscher 
Zeitungen  bei  mir  eingetroffen  sein  wird,  welche  mir  von  Hrn. 
Advocat  Oppermann  in  Hoya  bereits  vor  14  Tagen  fiir  Sie  an- 
gekiindigt,  bis  zur  Stunde  aber  vergeblich  von  mir  erwartet 
wurde. 

Die  Spedition  alles  dessen,  was  fiir  Sie  und  von  Ihnen  bei 
mir  ankommt,  besorge  ich  einstweilen  selbst  auf's  Bereitwilligste, 
und  werde  mir  spater  erlauben,  Ihnen  den  Betrag  meiner  even- 
tuellen  baaren  Auslagen  dieserhalb  aufzugeben.  Immer  bin 
ich  leider  nicht  im  Stande,  Ihnen  in  dieser  Hinsicht  gefallig  zu 
sein,  da  der  Druck  meines  Amtes  zu  schwer  auf  mir  lastet  (ich 
bin  an  Posttagen  12  Stunden  an  Einem  Stiick  auf  dem  Comp- 
toir),  u.  ich  deswegen  kaum  A  them  und  Zeit  fiir  meine  eignen 
dringensten  Arbeiten  behalte,  geschweige  dann  es  unternehmen 
darf,  mir  neue  fasten  aufzubiirden,  deren  Bewaltigung,  neben 
dem,  was  ich  schon  zu  tragen  habe,  mir  unmoglich  sein  wiirde. 
Erlauben  Sie  mir  aber,  dass  ich  Ihnen  einen  wackern  u.  lieben 


8o  Letters  of  Freiligrath. 

Freund,  den  hiesigen  Pfarrer  Nicolaus  Dauber,  49  Finsburg 
Square,  fiir  diesen  Zweck  in  Vorschlag  bringe,  u.  Ihnen  einige 
Zeilen  desselben,  worin  er  selbst  iiber  den  Gegenstand  sich 
ausspricht,  zu  giitiger  Erwagung  beilege.  Ich  kann  Ihnen 
keinen  prompteren  und  in  jeder  Hinsicht  gewissenhafteren 
Mann  empfehlen,  u.  wiirde  mich  freuen,  wenn  eine  Einigung 
zwisclien  Ihnen  zu  Stande  kame.  Bis  dahin,  wie  gesagt,  bin 
ich  Ihr  Spediteur,  und  bitte  Sie  unumschrankt  iiber  mich  ver- 
fiigen  zu  wollen.  Mit  dem  nachsten  Dampfer  hoflfe  ich  Ihnen 
schon  zu  beweisen,  dass  ich  ein  ordentlicher  u.  geschafts- 
kundiger  Mittelsmann  bin.  1st  es  mir  irgend  moglich,  so  Schick' 
ich  Ihnen  dann  auch  das  eine  oder  andere  Lied  von  mir  selbst. 

Herr  Dauber  ist  auch  bereit,  Ihnen  regelmassig  literarische 
Notizen  iiber  und  aus  Deutschland  zu  liefern.  Eine  Probe 
davon  liegt  schon  jetzt  bei.  Als  Spaltenfutter  wird  Ihnen  der- 
gleichen  immer  willkommen  sein. 

Soviel,  in  der  Hetze  eines  amerikanischen  Posttages,  fiir 
heute !  Lassen  Sie  bald  wieder  von  sich  horen^  und  erwarten 
Sie  mit  nachstem  Steamer  bestimmt  Weiteres  von  mir. 

Und  nun  noch  einmal  meinen  herzlichsten,  warmsten  Dank 
fiir  Ihr  entgegenkommendes  Vertrauen,  dem  ferner  zu  ent- 
sprechen  mein  Stolz  und  mein  Streben  sein  wird  !  Starke  Gott 
Sie  in  Ihrem  neuen  Wirkungskreise,  u.  lasse  er  es  Ihnen  u.  den 
Ihrigen  wohl  gehen  im  fernen  fremden  Lande  ! 

Mit  aufrichtigster  Hochachtung  und  innigster  Theilnahme, 
wahrhaft  ergeben  der  Ihrige, 

F.   FREILIGRATH. 

London^  j.  Mdrz^  ^^47' 
HOCHVEHREHRTER   HERR, 

Ich  hatte  gehofft  mit  diesem  Steamer  schon  eine  gauze 
Schiffsladung  von  Correspondenzen  schicken  zu  konnen,  aber 
leider  macht  sich  die  Sache  nicht  so  rasch,  wie  ich  nach  meinen 
getroffenen  Einleitungen  erwartet  hatte.  Doch  bin  ich  heute 
wenigstens  im  Stande,  Ihnen  folgendes  fiir  Ihren  "  Demokraten" 
beizuschliessen : 


Clara  Scidenstickcr,  8i 

1.  Kinen  Brief  meines  Freiindes,  des  als  Publizisten  in 
Deiitschland  riihinlichst  bekannten  Hofgerichts-Advokaten 
Carl  Buchner  in  Darmstadt.  Der  Brief,  schreibt  mir  Buchner, 
enthalt  einen  Artikel  fiir  den  "  Demokraten." 

2.  Zwei  Gedichte  von  Hoffmann  von  Fallersleben.  Das 
Eine  (fiir  Freunde  litliographirt)  gegen  das  neue  Rheinliessische 
Gesetzbuch  u.  den  Papa  desselben,  Herrn  von  Linde.  Das 
Andere  gegen  liberalthuendes  belletristisches  Geschmeiss, 
(Kiihne  in  Leipzig  und  ahnliches  Gesindel)  das,  trotz  seines 
Liberalthuns,  nur  zu  gern  mit  der  Reaction  liebaugelt,  nnd 
Hoffmann  n.  anderen  ehrlichen  Lenten  Bins  anhangt. 

Moge  Ihnen  nnn  dieser  Anfang,  wenigstens  als  ein  Zeichen, 
dass  icli  fiir  Sie  thatig  bin,  nicht  unwillkommen  sein.  Verlassen 
Sie  sich  darauf,  dass  ich  meine  Bemiihungen  rastlos  fortsetze. 
Auf  einmal  lasst  sich  so  Etwas  nicht  thnn,  aber  vor  nnd  nach 
bin  ich  sicher  Ihnen  zuwege  zu  bringen  was  Sie  wiinschen, 

Mit  einem  eigenen  Beitrage  bleibe  ich  heute  noch  im 
Riickstand,  und  bitte  mir  deswegen  nicht  ziirnen  zu  wollen. 
Ich  bin  Sklave  meines  Berufs  (nicht  um  zu  hikriren  sondern 
um  mich  und  die  Meinen  ehrlich  durchzubringen,  d.  h.  um 
trotz  aller  Sklaverei  freier  Mann  zu  bleiben),  u.  dabei  treten, 
Gott  u.  dem  Teufel  sei's  geklagt,  Poesie  und  Literatur  nur 
zu  sehr  in  den  Hintergrund.  Doch  bin  ich  immer  frisch  und 
freudig,  trage  mich  mit  Planen  und  Entwiirfen,  und  wenn  mich 
dies  London  und  sein  ewiges  "  business,  business,  business  "  nur 
erst  etwas,  etwas  mehr  zu  Athem  kommen  lasst,  so  ist  mir  vor 
neuer  Productivitat  nicht  bange.  Und  dann  steuere  ich  Ihnen 
gewiss ! 

Diese  Miinchener  Blamage  ist  doch  kostbar  !  Das  war'  ein 
Stoff  fiir  Heine  ! 

Und  nun  fiir  heute  das  beste  Lebewohl !    Griissen  Sie  Herrn  v. 
Eichthal,  wenn  ich  bitten  darf  !    Heinzen  ist  jetzt  im  Waadtland. 
Mit  aufrichtiger  Hochachtung, 

treu  und  ergeben  der  Ihrige, 

F.    Freiligrath. 


82  Letters  of  Fi'eiligrath. 

P.  S. — Die  Nummern  mit  Buchner's  Artikel  und  Hofifinann's 
Gedichten  wiirde  ich,  zur  Beforderung  an  diese  Freunde,  gern 
iinter  Kreuzband  von  Ilinen  empfangen.  Die  von  Hrn.  Op- 
permann  angekiindigten  Zeitungen  sind  noch  niclit  bei  mir 
eingetroffen. 

3'  J^f-^^h  '47- 
Verehrter  Herr  und  Freund : 

Ich  erhielt  Ihre  giitigen  vom  30.  Mrz.  u.  28.  April,  gleichwie 
mit  der  "  Caledonia "  auch  die  Probenummern  des  "  Biirger- 
freundes"  u.  habe  nur  dringend  und  herzlich  um  Entschuldi- 
gung  zu  bitten,  dass  ich  meine  Antwort  auf  erstere  so  gar  lange 
verschob.  Geschafte  und  gesellschaftliche  Verpflichtungen  (de- 
nen  man  sich  trotz  alien  Straubens  nicht  ganz  entziehen  kann) 
miissen  meine  Rechtfertigung  iibemehmen. 

Mit  dem  theilnehmendsten  Interesse  habe  ich  Ihre  sammt- 
lichen  giitigen  Mittheilungen  iiber  Ihre  jiingsten  fata  gelesen. 
Hoffentlich  wird  der  "  Biirgerfreund,"  dessen  erste  Nummern 
sich  ja  recht  stattlich  u.  gediegen  beim  Publicum  einfiihren, 
unter  Ihrer  umsichtigen  Leitung  zu  einer  der  ersten  Blatter  des 
Westens  emporbliihen,  u.  Ihnen  alien  Aerger  und  alles  Unge- 
mach,  welche  der  "Demokrat"  iiber  Sie  brachte,  versiissen  u. 
durch  das  Gegentheil  ersetzen.  Schlimm  ist  das  Eine  nur,  dass 
die  Nachricht  von  der  Auflosung  Ihres  Verhaltnisses  zum 
"Demokraten"  alsbald  die  Runde  durch  alle  deutschen  Blatter 
machte,  was,  wie  ich  vermuthe,  der  Grund  ist,  dass  mir  keine 
weiteren  Beitrage  fiir  sie  zugekommen  sind.  Ich  werde  nun, 
durch  die  sich  jetzt  ebenfalls  verbreitende  Kunde  von  der 
Griindung  des  "  Biirgerfreundes "  unterstiitzt,  neuerdings  an- 
zukniipfen  suchen,  u.  wiinschte  nur,  das  Sie  mir  dabei,  zur 
Erleichterung  und  grosserer  Ausdehnung  der  Sache,  in  folgender 
Weise  behiilflich  sein  mochten.  Lassen  Sie  namlich,  auf  diinnes 
leichtes  Briefpapier,  in  mehreren  hundert  Exemplaren  einen 
Einladungsbrief  (in  Ihrem  Namen)  an  aufzufordernde  Mitar- 
beiter  in  Deutschland,  Schweiz,  England  u.  Frankreich  drucken, 
schicken  Sie  mir — in  einem  besondern  Packet,  womoglich  durch 


Clara  Seideiisiicker.  83 

Buchhandlerbeischluss — die  ganze  Auflage  ein,  11.  erlaiiben  Sie 
mir,  das  ich  sodann  sammtliche  150  oder  200  Exemplare  nach 
bester  Sach-  imd  Personenkentniss  adressire,  mit  kiirzen,  auch 
meinerseits  animirenden  Nachschriften  versehen,  und  nach  alien 
vier  Winden  hinausschleudere.  Dies,  meine  ich,  miisste  wirk- 
samer  sein  als  alles  Bisherige,  Die  Leute  horen  vofi  Ihnen 
selbst^  wie  es  Ihnen  geht,  was  Sie  treiben,  was  Sie  wiinschen  u. 
brauchen — u.  ich  kann  ohne  besonderen  Zeitaufwand  das  Ein- 
ladungsgeschaft  bei  Weitem  itmfangreicher  und  (von  Ihnen 
selbst  als  Ihr  Londoner  Bevollmachtigter  u.  Agent  genannt) 
nachhaltiger  u.  fester  betreiben,  als  bisher.  Eine  Liste  der 
Eingeladenen  schick'  ich  Ihnen,  wie  sich  von  selbst  versteht, 
seiner  Zeit  ein. 

Die  "  Weserzeitung  "  geht  mir  seit  anderthalb  Wochen  post- 
taglich  flir  Sie  zu,  doch  ist  es  mir  erst  heute  gelungen,  ein 
Arrangement  mit  einem  hiesigen,  mit  jedem  Steamer  eine  Kiste 
nach  Philadelphia  schickenden  Buchhandler,  riicksichtlich  des 
Beischlusses  zu  treffen.  Deswegen  (well  die  diesmalige  Kiste 
schon  gestern  nach  Liverpool  abging)  erhalten  Sie  die  erste 
Zeitungssendung  erst  mit  folgendem  Steamer  (19.  Juni),  dann 
aber  regelmassig  zwei  Mai  jeden  Monat.  Anders  liess  sich  die 
Sache  beim  besten  Willen  nicht  ordnen.  Herr  Chapman  (121 
Newgate  Street,  eben  der  vorhin  erwahnte  Buchhandler)  sagt 
mir,  dass  die  Spesen,  welche  Sie  fiir  den  Beischluss  seinem 
dortigen  Commissionair  zu  zahlen  haben,  ausserst  gering  sind. 
Etwa  I  Schilling  fiir  ein  Paquet.  Gingen  die  Ztgn.  doch  p. 
Post  unter  Ihrer  Adresse  ab,  so  wiirde  das  Ports  (weil  nicht  in 
England  gedruckte  Zeitungen  wie  Briefe  zahlen)  iiber  ein  Pfund 
betragen. 

Sonst  sind  mir  keine  Blatter  fiir  Sie  zugegangen  weder  die 
Bonner  Ztg.,  noch  Struve's  Zuschauer. 

So  viel  fiir  heute  !  Entschuldigen  Sie  meine  Eile,  u.  zahlen 
Sie  immer  auf  meine  Treue  u.  Ergebenheit !  Per  Caledonia 
Weiteres  !  Herzlich  der  Hire, 

F.  FreiIvIGRATh. 


84  Letters  of  Freiligrath. 

3.  Juli,  4^. 
Verehrter  Herr  und  Freund  : 

Auf  meinen  Brief  vom  3.  Juni  11.  den  Ihnen  damit  gemachten 
Vorschlag  wird  mir  der  nacliste  Steamer  hoffentlich  Antwort 
bringen.  Anliegend  findeii  Sie  ein  paar  Beitrage  von  Heinzen 
fiir  den  "  Biirgerfreund,"  die  Ihnen  sicher  willkommen  sind. 

Mein  Zeitungs  packet  vom  19.  Juni  wird  jetzt  wohl  in  Ihren 
Handen  sein.  Heute  geht  keins  ab,  da  mein  Spediteur  diesmal 
keine  Kiste  hiniiberschickt.  Dagegen  folgt  mit  nachstem  Boote 
bestimmt  wieder  Alles,  was  sich  bis  dahin  angesammelt  liat. 

Mit  herzlichen  Griissen  Ihr  aufrichtig  ergebener 

Raptitn!  F.  Freiligrath. 

London^  j.  Dec.^  //. 
Verehrter  Herr  u,  Freund  : 

Auf  meinen  Brief  vom  3.  Juli  d.  J.  und  die  Vorschlage,  die 
ich  Ihnen  damit  hinsichtlich  der  Werbung  standiger  deutscher 
Correspondenten  zu  machen  mir  erlaubte,  bin  ich  ohne  Ihre 
gefallige  Antwort  geblieben.  Ebenso  weiss  ich  nicht,  ob  die 
Weserzeitung,  die  ich  Ihnen  jetzt  seit  langerer  Zeit  regelmassig 
durch  Vermittlung  von  Hrn.  John  Chapman  dahier  zukommen 
lasse,  gleich  regelmassig  in  Ihren  Besitz  gelangt,  vermuthe  es 
aber,  weil  Sie  ohnlangst  ein  Packet  mit  Nummern  Ihres  "  Biir- 
freundes "  unter  meiner  Privatadresse  zuzuschicken  die  Giite 
hatten,  die  Ihnen,  wenn  mir  recht  ist,  nur  aus  den  Kreuzband 
Knveloppen  der  Ihnen  gesandten  Weseizeitungen  bekannt  sein 
kann.  Zu  grosserer  Vorsicht  bemerke  ich  noch,  dass  Hr.  Chap- 
man die  Zeitung  immer  an  Mr.  John  Penington,  69  Chestnut 
Street,  Philadelphia,  zur  Beforderung  an  Sie  beifiigt,  wo  Sie 
sich  eventuell  erkundigen  konnten. 

Den  "  Biirgerfreund "  habe  ich  mit  Vergniigen  perlustrirt, 
freue  mich  des  Gedeihens  des  Blattes,  u.  danke  fiir  die  giitige 
Mittheilung  desselben. 

Hoffentlich  geht  es  Ihnen  wohl  in  der  neuen  Heimath  !  Das 
ist  wenigstens  der  herzliche  Wunsch. 


Hires  unverandert  treu  ergebenen 


F.  F'reiligrath. 


Clara  Scidettsticker.  85 

London^  10.  Febr.  sage  Marz^  184.8. 
Verehrter  Herr  und  Freund : 

Ihre  beiden  Briefe  vom  8.  Jan.  11.  10.  Febr.  habe  ich  erhal- 
ten  und  danke  herzlich  dafiir.  Die  nahere  Beantwortung  der- 
selben  muss  ich  mir  jedocli  fiir  den  nachsten  Steamer  vorbe- 
halten,  indem  gehaufte  Arbeit  u.  die  Aufregung  dieser  grossen 
herrlichen  Zeit  mich  gleich  sehr  daran  verhindern.  Herr  Gott, 
welche  Ereignisse — diese  glorreiche  Revolution  zu  Paris  und 
ihre  jetzt  schon  vor  u.  nach  zu  Tage  tretenden  Folgen  fiir 
Deutschland  !  Sie  konnen  sich  nicht  denken,  wie  das  blitzt, 
donnert  tind  einschlagt,  und  wie  man  inmitten  dieses  Gewitters 
(denn  hier  in  London  ist  man  doch  noch  in  seinem  Bereiche) 
lacht,  weint,  flucht,  betet,  zittert — Alles  durcheinander !  Eine 
stolzere,  eine  erhabenere  Offenbarung  hat  die  ewige  Majestat 
u.  Herrlichkeit  des  Volkes  noch  nicht  erlebt  in  der  Geschichte  ! 

Fiir  diesmal  nur  so  viel : 

Ihre  Zuschrift  vom  August  d.  J.  habe  ich  nie  erhalten.  Dies 
Factum  klart  einfach  alle  Missverstandnisse  auf,  die,  ehe  Sie  es 
wussten,  die  natiirlichen  Folgen  desselben  waren. 

Unregelmassigkeiten  in  der  Beforderung  der  Weserzeitung 
fallen  einzig  den  Leuten  meines  hiesigen  Commissionaires  zur 
Last.  Ich  fand,  ein  neues  Packet  bringend,  trotz  aller  Er- 
mahnungen  oft  noch  das  alte  vor,  u.  machte  dann,  um  Kosten 
fiir  Sie  zu  sparen,  aus  beiden  ein  einziges. 

Nicht  in  England  gedruckte  Zeitungen  kanji  ich  hier  nicht 
imter  Kreuzband  zur  Post  geben.  Oder,  wenn  ich  es  thue,  so 
geniessen  Sie  nicht  die  Porto vergiinstigung,  welche  englischen 
Blattern  zusteht,  sondern  miissen  nach  dem  Geivicht  das  voile 
Briefporto  zahlen.  Deswegen  kann  ich  bei'm  besten  Willen  von 
dem  bisher  eingeschlagenen  Wege  der  Beforderung  nicht  ab- 
weichen,  schicke  Ihnen  aber  die  zwischen  dem  vorigen  u. 
heutigen  Steamer  eingetroffenen  Wes.  Zeitungen  (alle  Pariser 
Nachrichten  bis  daliin  enthaltend,  auch  schon  einige  deutsche 
Notizen  von  Wichtigkeit)  diesmal  azisnahmszveise  direct  in 
einem  Packetchen  p.  Dampfschiff  zu,  dessen  hier  zu  entricht- 
endes   Porto,  trotz  seiner  Unverschamtheit.     Ihnen  durch  den 


86  Letters  of  Freiligrath. 

Inhalt  der  Blatter  wohl  compensirt  wird.  Spater  bediene  ich 
micli  wieder  Chapman's,  indem  ich  ihrn  wiederholt  grossere 
Promptitude  anempfehle. 

Die  Londoner  deutsche  Ztg.  wird  Ihnen  jetzt  auf  meine 
Veranstaltung  regelmassig  zukommen.  Der  Anfang  ist  schon 
mit  den  letzen  Posten  gemacht  worden.  Am  25.  Marz  mehr  ! 
Fiir  heute  nnr  noch  den  treuesten  Handschlag  u.  die  herzlich- 
sten  republikanischen  Griisse  !     Ihr, 

F.    Freiligrath. 

14  Mrz.  1848. 
VEREHRTESTER   Freund  : 

Die  Zeitungen,  die  Sie  mit  diesen  Steamer  empfangen,  werden 
Sie  staunen  machen !  Wien  nnd  Berlin !  Metternich  zum 
Teufel !  wenn  auch  leider  nicht — Friedrich  Wilhelm  IV.  Das 
zu  Berlin  so  nobel  verspritzte  Blut  hatte  noch  andere  Brfolge 
haben  miissen  !  Jetzt  war  der  Augenblick  da,  die  Dynastie  zu 
verjagen,  u.  statt  des  sich  iiberlebt  habenden  Instituts  der 
Monarchic  die  Republik  zu  Khren  zu  bringen  !  Nun,  was 
nicht  ist,  kann  werden  (der  Deutsche  hat  immer  trostliche 
Sprichworter  zur  Hand) :  aber  ich  fiirchte  doch,  dass  einstwei- 
Len  die  Gelegenheit  verpasst  worden  ist.  Jedenfalls  sind  wir  in 
den  letzten  4  Wochen  um  Jahrhunderte  vorangeschritten,  u.  das 
muss  die  kochende  Brust  einstweilen  beruhigen.  6000  Deutsche 
in  Paris,  Herwegh  unter  ihnen,  iiben  sich  jetzt  in  den  Waffen. 
Was  kann  aber  ein  Freicorps  ausrichten,  wenn  die  Nation  nicht 
mit  offenen  Armen  es  empfangt  u.  gemein  schaftliche  Sache 
mit  ihm  macht  ?  !  Es  ist  eine  wunderbare  Zeit !  Die  Thranen 
stehen  mir  in  den  Augen,  aber  ich  weiss  nicht,  ob  es  Thranen 
der  Freude  oder  des  Zornes  sind  ! 

Hoffentlich  haben  Sie  das  Zeitungspacket  welches  ich  mit 
vorigem  Steamer  an  Sie  abschickte,  erhalten.  Das  Schicksal 
desselben  vor  seiner  Abreise  erzahlt  Ihnen  der  inliegende  Brief. 
Die  bis  heute  eingetroffenen  Blatter  habe  ich  nun  ebenfalls  an 
H.  Wernicke  geschickt  u.  wird  dieser  sicher  dafiir  sorgen,  dass 
sie  noch  mit  der  "  Hibernia  "  an  Sie  abgehen. 


Clara  Seidensticker.  8j 

Entscliiildigeu  Sie  meine  Hast !  Aber  dieses  Berliner  Blut 
will  mir  nicht  aus  dem  Kopf  !  Icli  kann  mir  niclit  denken,  dass 
es  nur  in  "  majorem  Friderici  gloriam  "  vergossen  sein  sollte  ! 

Anliegend  auch  noch  eine  Kleinigkeit,  dis  vor  dem  eintreffen 
der  Berliner  n.  Wiener  Naclirichten  entstand,  Ach,  was  sind 
jetzt  Verse,  neben  den  ungeheuern  Ereignissen  !  Und  doch 
muss  man  das  Feuer  schiiren,  solange  die  Glutli  noch  nicht 
erloschen  ist. 

Ich  driicke  Ihnen  warm  u.  innig  die  Hand !  Und  lassen 
Sie  uns  zum  Geist  der  Geschichte  flehen,  das  er  die  Eoose  un- 
seres  geliebten,  ach  so  lange  mit  Fiissen  getretenen !  Vater- 
landes  stolz  und  herrlich  hinausfiihre  !     Ihr, 

F.  Freiugrath. 

London^  7  Apr.  1848. 

Nur  zwei  Worte  heute.  Die  Zeitungen  bis  heute  kommen 
Ihnen  wieder  liber  Liverpool  zu.  In  Deutschland  wird  sich 
Alles  machen.  Ich  gehe  in  kiirzester  Frist  hiniiber,  treffe  aber 
Arrangements,  dass  ihnen  Alles,  nach  wie  vor  richtig  spedirt 
wird. 

Inliegend  ein  Beitrag  fiir  den  Biirgerfreund. 
Sie  kommen  doch  auch  zuriick  ? 

Immer  von  ganzem  Herzen,  Ihr, 

F.  Freiligath. 

CLARA   SEIDENSTICKER. 

PHII^ADELPHIA. 


REVIEWS. 


Social  Forces  in  German  Literature. — A  Shidy  in  the  History 
of  Civilization.  By  Kuno  Francke,  Ph.  D. ,  Assistant  Professor  of 
German  Literature  in  Harvard  University.     Henry  Holt  &  Co., 
New  York,  1896.     Pp.  vii,  and  577. 
From  the  German  Department  of  Harvard  University  comes  a  work 
of  lasting  value  on  German  literature,  history  and  civilization  as  cor- 
related and  interdependent.       The  merit  of  Francke' s  work,  apart  from 
its  inner  value,  lies  in  the  fact  that  the  author  turns  energetically  once 
for  all  against  the  spirit  of  slavish  imitation  of  German  literary  historians, 
Francke' s  work  itself  in  its  annotations  is  a  tacit  condemnation  of 
the  meagerness   and   poverty   of  contemporaneous  literary  German 
scholarship  which  prevails  in  this  country  in  spite  of  a  great  activity  in 
more  or  less  elementary  text-book  editions,  made  up  without  any  spe- 
cial  original   effort   from   the   convenient   commentaries   of  German 
scholars.     Francke  has  quoted   scarcely  a  dozen  American  scholars 
whom  he  deemed  worthy  of  serving  him  as  sources  ;  of  historians  he 
has  quoted  none.      Of  course  it  is  to  be  doubted  whether  he  might 
not  have  derived  some  benefit  for  the  comparatively  weaker  parts  of 
his  standard  work  by  consulting  some  other  American  sources  which 
he  ignored;  for  instance,  the  breadth  and  depth  of  the  Walthari  Legend 
and   some  phases  of  Reformation  literature.     There  is,  however,   in 
Francke' s  work,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  German  scholarship 
in  this  country,  "  der  Zug  ins  Allgemeine  "   which  pervades  his  own 
German  culture;  there  is  the  bird's  eye  view  of  the  whole  field  of 
German  thought,  aspiration,  evolution  per  aspera  ad  astra,  the  rising 
and  falling  and  rising  again,  the  mutual  relation  and  interdependence 
between   the  political,  ecclesiastical,  social  and  economic  life  of  the 
nation  on  the  one  hand,  the  intellectual,  ideal  and  spiritual  outcry  of 
the  soul  of  the  thinker,  poet,  prosaist,  historian  on  the  other.    Francke, 
in  the  clear  consciousness  of  what  is  needful,  for  the  first  time  tries  to  em- 
brace the  whole,  and  he  confesses — with  a  slightly  reproachful  hint  of 
energy  wasted — that  his  early  training  and  education  ' '  has  led  him  to 
look  at  the  substance  rather  than  the  form  of  literature, ' '  to  see  in  litera- 
ture primarily  "the  working  of  pupular  forces,  to  consider  it  chiefly  as 


Francke.  89 

an  expression  of  national  culture."  This  confession  alone  makes  his 
work  admirable,  his  purpose  noble  ;  for  the  confession  as  well  as  the 
execution  of  such  a  purpose  is  new  in  the  field  of  German  literature  in 
America. 

It  is  true  that  not  all  of  the  best  critics  and  thinkers  acknowledge  this 
interdependence  between  social  forces  and  literature  to  such  an  extent 
as  Francke  does.  Griilparzer,  who  undoubtedly  was  an  artistic  force 
of  first  rank,  for  instance,  says:  "Die  Fortschritte  der  Kunst  sind 
von  den  Talenten  abhangig,  und  nicht  von  den  Weltbegebenheiten. 
Goethe  ware  derselbe  grosse  Dichter  geworden,  wenn  es  auch  nie  einen 
Friedrich  den  Grossen  gegeben  hatte,  und  die  franzosische  Revolution, 
die  doch  drastisch  genug  war,  hat  doch  keinen  einzigen  Poeten  her- 
vorgebracht. "  But  we  will  place  ourselves  without  hesitation  on 
the  side  of  Francke  in  opposition  to  Griilparzer.  Taine  shows  that 
the  work  of  an  author  is  not  a  mere  fancy  of  imagination,  not  a  capri- 
cious result  of  a  hot  inner  struggle,  but  a  reflection  of  the  prevailing 
customs  and  cultural  conditions,  an  expression  of  an  intellectual  status 
of  a  nation  at  a  given  period.  From  this  we  infer  that  out  of  the 
literary  monuments  it  can  be  proven  how  the  people  centuries  ago  felt 
and  thought.      The  attempt  was  tnade  and  it  succeeded. 

But  surely  it  is  not  the  spirit  of  a  certain  time  alone,  "the  social 
forces,"  that  are  reflected  in  the  works  of  the  literary  artists,  even 
though  these  forces  are  set  forth  in  the  work  of  the  literary  chroniclers, 
whom  Francke  has  rightly  excluded  from  this  "  Study  in  Civilization," 
it  is  rather  the  philosophy,  the  "Weltanschauung"  of  the  great  men 
which  produces  their  greatest  works,  and  these  men  themselves  may 
be  and  frequently  are  centuries  ahead  of  their  times,  for  they  are 
prophets,  not  chroniclers.  Undoubtedly  Goethe  felt  deeply  the  sig- 
nificance of  Frederick  the  Great  for  German  literature.  We  possess,  in- 
deed, his  frank  confession  that  the  great  Seven  Years'  War  aroused  the 
German  national  feeling  and  inspired  him  to  the  creation  of  Goetz  vo7i 
Berlichingen,  the  first  high  flight  of  his  genius.  But  in  various  ways 
"  the  spirit  of  the  age"  works  upon  the  different  classes  of  writings, 
the  epic,  lyric,  dramatic,  historic  and  philosophical,  and  in  the  most 
varied  ways  this  ' '  spirit  of  the  age"  in  its  turn  is  moulded,  transformed, 
re-born  by  the  creative  geniuses  of  all  the  departments  of  intellectual 
effort.  As  surely  as  social  forces  produce  literature,  so  certainly  crea- 
tive, original,  independent  literature  produces  social  forces. 

We  are  liable  to  deceive  ourselves  too  easily  in  regard  to  the  intui- 
tion that  may  be  granted  us  into  the  "  Raderwerk  "  of  time  and  into 


90  Reviews. 

the  interdependence  between  that  particular  time  and  its  great  men. 
Francke  derives  his  theories  of  hterature  with  a  certain  constraint  and 
coercion  from  "social  forces"  almost  exclusively;  where  he  finds 
weakness  in  the  social  forces,  he  invariably  finds  a  reflection  in  the 
literary  achievements  ;  he  sees  democratic  tendencies  in  literature 
originating  either  in  opposition  to  political  reaction  or  tyranny,  or  in 
adaptation  to  democratic  tendencies  underlying  the  processes  of  time 
(Schiller  called  it  ingeniusly  ' '  das  Weben  der  Zeit  " ).  It  does  not  seem 
to  occur  to  him  that  a  great  time  may  produce  a  small  race  of  men  and 
vice  versa  ("  Denn  6a&  grosse  Zeit  zeugte  ein  kleiyies  GeschlechV), 
that  a  time  of  the  highest  aristocratic  development  may  produce  the 
most  democratic  leaders  of  thought,  that  the  zenith  of  democracy  may 
foster  the  growth  of  the  most  aristocratic  geniuses  in  the  domain  of 
literature.  The  highly  aristocratic  renaissance  period  in  England 
produced  Ben  Johnson,  once  a  mason's  apprentice,  and  immortal 
Shakespeare,  a  glove-maker's  son;  the  classical  era,  Sheridan  and  Swift, 
who  sprang  from  abject  poverty  ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  the  new 
extreme  democracy,  the  sons  of  high  nobility  :  Byron,  Shelly,  Chateau- 
briand, Lamartine,  Musset,  Balsac,  Leopardi,  Manzoni,  Heinrich  von 
Kleist,  Platen,  Lenau,  Graf  Auersperg  (Anastasius  Griin),  Graf 
Schack,  etc.  Each  epoch  is  so  rich  that  almost  ayiy  theory  can  be  proven 
by  it.  Therefore  Goethe's  Golden  Tree  of  Life  is  in  many  places  of 
Francke' s  otherwise  so  admirable  work,  preferable  to  the  gray  theory 
of  the  latter. 

It  is  an  ungrateful  task  to  criticize  a  book  which  the  more  excellent 
it  be,  the  more  idiosyncracies  it  may  betray.  Kestner'  s  epigram  con- 
fronts the  critic  still  : 

"  Bald  wird  der  Dichter  alt,  dann  hat  er  ausgesungen, 
Doch  manche  Critici,  die  bleiben  ewig  Jungen." 

No  criticism,  however,  can  deprive  Francke's  work  of  its  real  value, 
for  two  cardinal  virtues  redeem  its  faults  :  first,  the  merit  of  having 
once  for  all  made  the  history  of  civilization  the  basic  and  fundamental 
ground  of  German  literature,  a  thing  which  has  been  done  even  in 
Germany  only  in  the  case  of  certain  periods,  where  the  mutual  relation 
forced  itself  upon  the  literary  historian,  but  nowhere  on  a  broad,  uni- 
versal basis  ;  second,  his  universality  of  interest  in  all  the  scholarship 
that  is  organically  related  to  literature  as  such. 

Francke's  mission,  which  he  claims  in  this  work,  is  not  merely  that 
of  a  professor  of  literature  in  an  American  College,  but  in  the  first  place 


Francke.  91 

that  of  a  historian,  especially  a  "  Kulturhistoriker"  and  political  philo- 
sopher. He  judges  from  the  point  of  view  of  his  highest  political 
ideals,  his  "Weltanschauung,"  and  his  conception  of  the  world  is  a 
deep  sentiment  and  a  warm  heart  for  the  suffering  of  the  great  masses, 
the  poor  and  lowly.  Francke  is  also  as  regards  Germany  a  republican 
and  a  socialist  in  the  best  sense  of  the  word,  like  those  few  "  Kathe- 
dersocialisten"  who  have  brought  about  in  Germany  the  "  Kranken- 
Arbeiter-  und  Invalidenversorgung. "  There  glows  in  his  conception 
of  the  world  the  spark  of  divine  commiseration  with  the  suffering  of 
the  materially  and  intellectually  disinherited  masses.  When,  then,  he 
works  out  the  struggle  between  the  individualistic  and  collectivistic, 
the  centrifugal  and  the  centripetal  tendencies  of  mankind  to  reach 
"  the  millenium  of  unselfishness  and  collective  devotion,  the  golden 
age  of  poetry  and  art,"  we  may  forgive  many  of  his  phrases,  his 
"  Schlagworte,"  his  forcing  the  facts  into  his  theories. 

Further,  Francke  has  not  lost  himself  in  specialization.  I  certainly 
least  of  all  would  dare  to  censure  even  the  exaggerated  modern  special- 
ization and  empirical  detail-investigation.  There  will  be  no  safe 
progress,  especially  in  science  and  philology,  without  the  victorious 
onward  march  of  empiricism  and  specialization,  though  the  poisonous 
plant  of  "  Philologendiinkel,"  which  has  been  fortunately  overcome 
in  Germany,  has  not  wholly  disappeared  in  America.  It  is  easy  for  a 
man  who  plunges  into  a  little  domain  of  research  to  exhaust  it  and  to 
enter  a  little  deeper  than  his  predecessors.  But  so  much  is  sure  that 
the  historian  and  the  historian  of  literature  is  lost  when  he  is  but  a 
specialist  and  detail  investigator,  inasmuch  as  he  always  centers  his 
attention  upon  the  single  detail,  never  acquires  a  survey,  a  comprehen- 
sive view,  and  thus  deprives  himself  of  the  possibility  of  understanding 
the  great  logical  connection  of  facts.  It  is  perhaps  a  necessary  tragedy 
that  detail-scholars  have  to  sacrifice  themselves,  go  under  in  details  in 
order  to  create  for  later  generations  the  elements,  the  ' '  Bausteine, ' '  for 
an  ascent  to  a  higher  standpoint,  to  the  universality  of  philosophical 
thought  on  epochs  embracing  a  thousand  years. 

Francke  is  certainly  a  universalist,  a  cosmopolitan,  who  tries  to  under- 
stand the  Germanic  world  in  its  great  content,  in  its  continuity  and 
philosophical  evolution  ;  he  seeks  to  inherently  explain  the  fate  of  the 
German  nation,  to  construe  a  whole  from  the  fragmentary  historical 
and  literary  heritage  of  German  thinkers  ;  he  seeks  the  life-principle, 
the  higher  unity  of  the  manifold.  So  far,  so  good.  But  to  do  this  he 
would  have  to  be  an  accomplished  connoisseur  of  men  and  things, 


92  Reviews. 

German  men  and  things  withal  ;  he  would  have  to  survey  with  an 
intuitive  spirit,  with  universal  knowledge  the  peaks  and  valleys  of 
German  life  under  all  conditions  and  in  all  ages.  He  would  have  to 
compress,  as  it  were,  like  a  great  artist  the  inexhaustible  sea  of  details, 
reflect  the  life  of  the  great  nation  in  a  mirror  and  represent  it  after  the 
discovery  of  all  the  causes  which  produce  German  life  as  expressed  in 
its  literature. 

Has  Francke  fully  succeeded  in  this  task  ? 

Here  is  the  strength  and  the  weakness  of  his  book.  Surely  the 
author  will,  with  "holy"  Lessing,  estimate  higher  the  search  for  truth 
than  the  truth  itself,  for  the  truth  in  absolute  purity  is  only  for  God. 
If,  therefore,  we  find  fault  with  many  of  his  views  and  conclusions,  we 
still  must  honor  them  and  concede  wide  space  to  the  legitimate  "  Welt- 
anschauung" of  the  author,  i.e.,  to  "die  Gruppe  centraler  Vorstel- 
lungen  und  Urtheile,  in  deren  vollendeter  Einheitlichkeit  die  Individu- 
alitat  des  Denkers  besteht,  deren  geschlossener  Ring  sein  praktisches 
wde  sein  theoretisches  Handeln  bestimmt, ' '  as  Schmoller*  defines  it. 
Francke  has  wrestled  through  to  a  uniform  conception  of  the  world  ; 
he  thinks  he  sees  clearly  into  the  origin  and  purpose  of  historical 
development,  into  progress  and  retrogression  and  its  causes,  into  the 
great  tendencies  which  wrought  changes  in  the  German  world,  into 
the  ultimate  ethical  and  political  questions.  To  this  social,  or  perhaps 
rather  socialistic,  conviction  of  his  he  subordinates,  rightly  or  wrongly, 
everything. 

But  this  will  not  preclude  the  possibility  that  other  literary  historians 
and  critics,  other  times  and  other  "  Richtungen"  will  arrive  at  very 
different  and  partly  opposite  conclusions  and  ways  of  considering  the 
literary  phenomena,  to  a  diff'erent  judgment  concerning-  the  essential 
causes  and  effects  of  German  literature,  in  one  word,  to  a  different 
"  Weltanschauung." 

We  will  not  conceal  the  fact  that  the  beginning  of  Francke' s  argu- 
mentation waif  at  first  very  distasteful  to  our  mind,  or  rather  our  own 
"  Weltanschauung."  The  constant  repetition  of  what  seemed  at  first 
and  partly  is  phrases,  "  Schlagworte,"  like  Idealism  and  Realism, 
Dependence  of  Literature  now  from  the  Church,  now  from  the  State, 
derivation  of  literary  strength  from  the  prevalence,  now  of  the  one 
power  now  of  the  other,  the  exaggerated,  unreal  value  attached  to  i7idi- 


*  Gustav  Schmoller,  Ged'dchtnissrede  auf  Heinrich  v.  Sybel  und  Heinrich 
von  Treitschke,  gehalten  in  der  Leibnizsitzimg  der  Akademie  der  Wissenschaf- 
ten  in  Berlin  ant  2.  Juli,  i8g6. 


Francke.  93 

mdualism  and  collectivism,  which  is  the  certerum  censeo  of  Francke  ; 
much  of  this  appeared  forced  and  unreal,  until  finally  we  penetrated  to 
the  end  and  his  purpose  and  aim,  his  "  Tendenz,"  lay  clear  before  our 
mind.  His  theories  constitute  part  and  parcel  of  his  intellectual  and 
moral  make-up  and  political  conviction.  He  states  clearly  that  through 
industrialism  the  modern  world  has  been  g-round  into  a  mass  of  inor- 
ganic atoms,  that  the  very  essence  of  modern  society  is  a  merciless 
struggle  for  material  existence,  and  that  the  masses  are  crowded 
together  in  a  few  colossal  workshops  managed  for  private  benefit ;  he 
speaks  of  the  splitting  up  of  the  national  body  into  the  toiling  many 
and  the  enjoying  {q\n.  He  adduces  the  words  of  the  great  Fichte,  the 
moral  and  philosophical  forerunner  of  modern  socialism,  that  in  fact 
every  poor  man  is  forced  to  devote  all  his  strength,  energy  and  time 
to  the  monster  "physical  hunger,"  so  that  none  is  left  to  him  to 
think  of  his  ideal  and  intellectual  goods. 

True  as  all  this  undoubtedly  is,  it  is  not  the  whole  truth.  Here 
seems  to  lie  the  foremost  weakness  of  Francke' s  otherwise  strong 
work.  Here  Goethe's  words  apply  :  "  Legt  ihr  nicht  aus,  so  legt  ihr 
unter."  Here  he  forces  the  literary  facts  into  his  theories,  and  to  do 
this  he  has  frequently  been  obliged  to  twist  the  facts  into  the  necessary 
shape  to  make  them  fit.  The  literary  facts  are  not  altogether  depen- 
dent on  social  forces,  and  the  author  himself  has  sometimes  to  revoke 
his  statements  by  manifold  concessions ;  for  instance,  in  the  case  of 
Charlemagne  (p.  11)  ;  they  are  still  more  dependent  on  the  spirit  and 
genius  of  the  poet  and  thinker  : 

"  Der  Dichter  steht  auf  einer  hoheren  Warte 
Alsauf  den  Zinnen  der  Partei." 

In  his  unsurpassed  essay  "On  the  Esthetic  Education  of  Man" 
Schiller  seems  literally  to  disavow  Francke' s  theory  on  the  absolute 
correlation  between  literature  and  social  forces.  He  says  :  ' '  The 
artist,  it  is  true,  is  the  son  of  his  age  ;  but  pity  for  hira  if  he  is  it, 
pupil,  or  even  its  favorite  !  Let  some  beneficent  divinity  snatch  him 
when  a  suckling  from  the  breast  of  his  mother  and  nurse  him  with  the 
milk  of  a  better  time,  that  he  may  ripen  to  his  full  stature  beneath  a 
distant  Grecian  sky.  And  having  grown  to  manhood,  let  him  returns 
a  foreign  shape,  into  his  century  ;  not,  however,  to  delight  it  by  his 
presence,  but  dreadful,  like  the  son  of  Agamemnon,  to  purify  it. 
The  matter  of  his  works  he  will  take  from  the  present,  but  their  form 
he  will  derive  from  a  nobler  time  ;  nay,  from  beyond  all  time,  from 


94  Reviews. 

the  absolute  unchanging  unity  of  his  own  nature.  Here,  from  the  pure 
ether  of  his  spiritual  essence,  flows  down  the  fountain  of  beauty,  un- 
contaminated  by  the  pollutions  of  ages  and  generations,  which  roU 
to  and  fro  in  their  turbid  vortex  far  beneath  it.  The  Roman  of  the 
first  century  had  long  bent  the  knee  before  his  Caesars  when  the 
statues  of  Rome  were  still  standing  erect ;  the  temples  continued  holy 
to  the  eye  when  their  gods  had  long  been  a  laughing-stock,  and  the 
abominations  of  a  Nero  and  Commodus  were  silently  rebuked  by  the 
style  of  the  edifice  which  lent  them  its  concealment.  Man  has  lost  his 
dignity,  but  Art  has  saved  it  and  preserved  it  for  him  in  expressive 
marbles.  Truth  still  lives  in  fiction,  and  from  the  copy  the  original 
will  be  restored. 

' '  But  how  is  the  artist  to  guard  himself  from  the  corruptions  of  his 
time  which  on  every  side  assail  him  ?  By  despising  its  decisions,  let 
him  look  upwards  to  his  dignity  and  the  law,  not  downwards  to  his 
happiness  and  his  wants.  Let  him  leave  to  mere  understanding,  which 
is  here  at  home,  the  province  of  the  actual  ;  while  he  strives,  by 
uniting  the  possible  with  the  necessary,  to  produce  the  ideal.  This  let 
him  imprint  and  express  in  fiction  and  truth  ;  imprint  it  in  the  sport 
of  his  imagination  and  the  earnest  of  his  actions  ;  imprint  it  in  all 
sensible  and  spiritual  forms,  and  cast  it  silently  into  everlasting  time." 
If  Schiller  understands  by  the  word  artist  also  the  poet  and  literary 
thinker,  he  presents  an  antipode  of  Fran  eke' s  theory  on  social  forces 
in  German  literature. 

Having  thus  shown  that  a  "Weltanschauung"  is  possible  totally 
contrary  to  that  of  Francke  and  having  supported  it  by  Schiller's 
confession  of  faith  ;  namely,  that  not  the  ages  and  their  social  forces 
necessarily  create  the  thinkers  and  poets  and  artists  in  general,  but  on 
the  contrary  the  latter  create  the  ages  and  their  social  forces,  which  is 
far  more  the  real  interpretation  of  the  "  Welt  als  Wille  und  Vorstel- 
lung,"  it  will  not  be  surprising  that  many  in  many  ways  will  differ 
from  Francke,  though  the  scope  of  this  article  will  permit  mention  of 
only  a  few  instances.  Besides  a  literary  estimate  of  such  a  great  work 
with  its  innumerable  categories,  views,  criticisms  and  judgments  could 
only  be  exhausted  in  another  book  of  considerable  size  ;  we  should  not 
be  incompetent  to  judge  it  in  all  its  aspects.  Here  and  there  the  right 
proportion  seems  to  be  lacking  ;  here  and  there  a  difierent  selection 
might  be  desirable,  which  would  be  more  representative,  though  it 
might  not  always  prove  Francke' s  tendency,  which  frequently  is  the 
principal  purpose  of  the  selection.     The  author  seems  not  to  care  so 


Franckc.  95 

much  for  literary  value  and  esthetic  beauty,  as  for  a  striking  illumina- 
tion of  his  "Tendenz." 

We  venture  to  make  only  a  few  annotations  more  of  a  historical 
and  cultural  nature  than  of  a  literary  character. 

Generalities  concerning  whole  epochs  will  always  be  one  sided  ; 
therefore  the  comprehensive  judgments  which  Francke  places  before  his 
well-rounded  chapters,  beautiful  as  they  are,  are  not  always  acceptable. 
One  may  doubt  very  much,  whether  "  the  fierce  and  prolonged  strug- 
gles between  empire  and  papacy"  and  "the  influence  of  all  these 
contrasting  tendencies"  are  the  cause  of  a  literature  which  "  though 
controlled  exclusively  by  ecclesiastics,  oscillates  between  a  drastic 
representation  of  every  day  reality  and  ideal  images  of  the  inner  life." 
Certainly  those  ecclesiastics  who  produced  literature  up  to  the  middle 
of  the  twelfth  century,  belonging  to  the  lowest  rank,  hardly  partici- 
pated in  the  gigantic  struggles  of  the  time.  It  is  surely  straining  the 
effect  of  these  world-stirring  struggles  to  suppose  that  the  Heliand  and 
Otfrid's  Evangelienharmonie  on  the  one  hand,  the  Ecbasis  Captivi 
and  Hrosvitha's  comedies  on  the  other  hand,  owe  their  origin  to  or 
were  influenced  by  these  struggles  ;  the  spiritual  and  the  worldly,  as 
expressed  in  these  works,  are  the  eternal  split  in  the  human  soul 
between  these  two  opposite  poles.  To  see  "  in  the  rejuvenated  and 
transformed  Germanic  epic"  of  the  Migration  period  the  particular 
galaxy  of  virtues  of  dm  viaze,  would  be  like  seeing  -/.aXuxayaf^ia  {yiot 
xakoxaya&ia)  in  its  true  Greek  sense  in  the  gigantic  butcheries  of  the 
Iliad.  Chivalrous  diu  maze  is  as  different  from  Greek  /.aXoxdyafHa, 
as  the  Minnesong  is  from  Theocritus,  Hartmann's  court-epic  from  the 
Odyssy  ;  they  represent  two  different  worlds. 

About  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century  the  empire  is  totally 
disintegrated,  it  is  true  ;  but  the  church  shows  ' '  signs  of  internal 
decay ' '  only  in  so  far  as  the  rising  royal  power  of  France  overshadows 
everything  and  a  weak  Pope  (Clemens  V,  late  Archbishop  of  Bordeaux) 
remains  in  France,  since  1309  in  Avignon,  and  thus  inaugurates  the 
so-called  '^Babylonian  exile"  of  the  church,  which  makes  also  his 
successors  tools  in  French  hands.  But  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that 
just  at  the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century  the  tremendous  rise  of  the 
Teutonic  Order  sets  in,  and  the  Germanisation  of  the  East  begins 
adding  a  new  world  to  old  Germany. 

Then  follows  a  beautiful  classical  estimate  of  the  Reformation  :  "The 
reformation  begins  with  a  grand  movement  for  popular  freedom  ;  it 
ends  by  establishing  more  firmly  than  ever  the  absolutism,  religious  as 


96  Reviews. 

well  as  political,  of  the  territorial  princes.  It  begins  with  the  restor- 
ation of  national  unity  and  greatness  in  sight ;  it  ends  in  the  misery  of 
the  Thirty  Years'  War  .  .  .  ,"  "Instead  of  the  generous,  broad, 
all-embracing  medieval  church  there  dominates  in  religious  affairs  a 
narrow,  spiteful,  inquisitorial  sectarianism."  The  broad  and  full 
justice  of  Francke's  judgment  in  regard  to  the  terrible  sinking  of  the 
reformatory  ideals  which  had  been  ever  present  also  in  the  minds  of 
the  real  Catholic  leaders  of  thought,  as  Nicolaus  Cusanus,  Erasmus, 
Reuchlin  and  especially  Sebastian  Brant,  is  heart-refreshing.  It 
reminds  one  of  Wilibald  Pirckheimer's  beautiful  words:  "  Er  sei 
aufanglich  gut  lutherisch  gewesen,  wie  der  selige  Albrecht  Di.irer 
(t  1528)  auch,  weil  sie  gehofift,  die  romische  Biiberei,  desgleichen  der 
Monche  und  Pfaffen  Schalkheit  sollte  gebessert  werden.  Allein  statt 
dessen  habe  sich  die  Sache  also  verschlimmert,  dass  in  Vergleichung 
mit  den  evangelischen  Buben  die  vorigen  fromm  erscheinen."* 

The  characterization  of  the  Goethe  and  Kant  period  is  also  admir- 
able. Francke's  quotation  of  Goethe:  "Germany  as  a  whole  is 
nothing,  the  individual  German  is  everything,"  is,  however,  to  be 
understood  cum  grano  salis.  Indeed,  the  individual  German  who 
represented  the  peaks  and  heights  was  everything,  the  broad  masses 
of  the  people,  including  the  nobility  to  a  large  extent,  were  nothing. 
Only  gradually  the  immense  culture  of  the  second  classical  period  and 
the  ocean-deep  thought  of  Kant  and  Hegel  begins  to  penetrate  down 
into  the  masses.  First  the  earthquake  of  Jena  and  Auerstadt  had  to 
arouse  that  world  rottening  under  the  classical  surface  of  Goethean 
and  Kantian  grandeur.  The  great  reformer  and  reorganizer  von  Stein, 
"  des  deutschen  Volkes  Edelstein,"  accomplishes  with  his  great 
co-workers  socially  and  politically  the  pervading  and  permeating"  of 
the  nation  with  that  unique,  unsurpassed  culture  and  thought  of  the 
first  classical  period.  The  years  1808-1812  which  gave  to  Prussia  the 
self-administration  of  the  communes,  the  abolition  of  servitude,  the 
emancipation  of  the  bourgeoisie  from  the  yoke  of  a  corps  of  degraded 
noble  civilian  and  military  officers,  did  away  with  a  bureaucracy  which 
could  do  nothing  but  "schreiben,  schreiben,  schreiben "  (Stein's 
words),  abolished  the  ghetto,  etc., — these  years,  I  say,  made  also  the 
splendor,  humanity,  depth  and  breadth  of  the  classical  period  accessible 
to  the  millions,  to  the  viiseracontribuens plebs,  and  gave  them  a  glance 


*Cf.   Schoenfeld    ''Rabelais  und  Erasmus,''''   Publ.    Mod.   Lang.  Ass'n.   of 
America.    Johns  Hopkins  University,  1893,  p.  23. 


Francke,  97 

into  the  ether  which  even  the  brutal  reaction  of  the  unholy  "  Holy 
Alliance"  could  no  more  annihilate.  So  much  for  Francke' s  intro- 
duction. 

A  commentary  upon  Francke' s  consideration  in  detail  of  the  intel- 
lectual development  of  Germany  could  not  but  corroborate  most  of 
his  statements,  but  would  also  have  to  bring-  out  dissent  in  many  points. 
A  glance  at  a  few  instances  must  suffice  for  the  present. 

Francke's  estimate  on  the  migration  of  peoples  may  give  a  mislead- 
ing picture  of  that  world-stirring  event :  the  Teutons  do  not  move  '  'tribe 
after  tribe,"  but  the  instinct  for  the  movement  and  the  movement 
itself,  as  caused  by  events  in  the  East  not  yet  sufficiently  determined 
by  historians,  is  general  ;  it  commences  at  different  ends  at  the  same 
time  and  influences  Europe  at  points  a  thousand  miles  apart.  The  con- 
secutiveness  of  migrations,  as  Francke  has  it,  the  post  hoc,  ergo  propter 
hoc  idea,  as  it  appears  here,  does  not  correspond  with  the  history  of 
that  time  as  given  by  the  classical  historical  master  of  the  migration 
period — Felix  Dahn.  "There  follows  the  gigantic  clash  between  the 
Roman  world  and  the  Hunnish  invaders  under  Attila."  But  Rome  is 
already  in  full  disolution,  since  the  Teutonic  barbarians  nominally 
serve  the  Roman  Empire,  but  practically  rule  over  it,  though  the 
formal  destruction  does  not  happen  till  twenty- five  years  later.  To 
claim  Attila  as  half-Germanized,  would  be  as  much  as  to  claim  the 
Tartars  as  half-Russianized,  because  they  dominated  over  Russia  for 
nearly  a  century  and  a  half;  the  fact  is  that  the  Teutons  are  on  the 
other  side,  though  Attila  has  swept  all  before  him  :  Aetius  by  the 
battle  on  the  Catalaunian  fields  (in  the  neighborhood  of  Troves,  not 
Chalons),  averted  for  the  first  time  that  savage  onslaught  of  Mongol 
barbarity  (this  time  of  the  Finnish-Tshudish  race),  which  Karl  Martell 
renewed  against  the  Saracenes  nearly  three  hundred  years  later,  and 
which  the  Poles  and  the  Germans  quelled  in  streams  of  blood  about 
the  middle  of  the  thirteenth  century  in  Poland  and  Lower  Silesia 
(Wahlstatt,  1241).  Even  apparently  secondary  data  in  the  history  of 
the  Migration  of  Peoples  are  all-important,  as  the  history  of  the 
greatest  revolution  of  the  German  nation  is  the  background  of  the 
wonderfully  rich  German  epics  and  saga  literature.  Whether  tlie 
Langobards  have  left  only  a  "sporadic  impress  on  the  character  of 
the  vanquished  country"  is  a  great  question.  The  history  of  the 
Lombardian  communes  and  of  the  Lombard  people  is  said  by  Italian 
historians  to  have  preserved  numerous  Germanic  traits  in  character 
and  especially  ethnographical  features  to  this  very  day. 


98  Reviews. 

When  stating  "With  the  foundation  of  the  Carolingian  monarchy 
the  period  of  the  wanderings  of  German  nations  may  be  said  to  have 
come  to  an  end,"  Francke  adopts  a  theory  abandoned  by  historians. 
Now,  on  the  contrary,  begins  the  retrogressive  flood.  Indeed,  the 
colonization  of  all  the  land  between  Elbe  or,  at  least,  Oder  and  Vistula 
by  the  German  element  is  nothing  but  a  protracted  struggle  beginning 
almost  immediately  after  the  first  great  migration  to  the  West  and 
South  came  to  a  standstill,  but  continued  more  intensely  and  according 
to  a  definite  aim  as  early  as  Charlemagne's  time,  to  subject,  to  absorb, 
or  to  annihilate  the  Slavonic  population,  that  had  extended  over  the 
territory  vacated  by  the  German  tribes  during  the  first  migrations. 
Ranke's  statement  must  never  be  forgotten  :  "Es  sind  zwei  Volker- 
wanderungen,  durch  die  der  Umkreis  der  deutschen  Gebiete  aus  dem 
inneren  Germanien  her  bestimmt  worden  :  die  eine  war  nach  dem 
Westen,  die  andere  nacJi  detn  Osten  gericJitet.''  But  while  the  Ger- 
manic tribes  pushed  themselves  toward  the  west  and  south  in  powerful 
torrents  and  in  a  relatively  short  period  of  time,  the  backward  flood 
towards  the  natural  course  of  Slavic  immigration  moved  slowly, 
gradually,  through  many  centuries,  often  interrupted  by  long  pauses 
not  yet  determined  historically.  By  omitting  the  Slavic  world  in  the 
estimate  of  German  life,  thought  and  culture,  especially  that  half  of 
Germany  lying  between  the  Elbe  and  Vistula,  it  is  impossible  to  under- 
stand Germany  in  many  important  aspects.  In  a  death  and  life  strug- 
gle for  more  than  a  thousand  years  both  races  could  not  help  being 
mutually  affected  in  the  most  thorough  way,  regardless  of  the  fact 
that  the  bloody,  cruel  and  gigantic  raids  and  invasions,  full  of  epic 
battles  and  adventures,  so  graphically  described  in  Mickiewicz's 
Koiirad  Walleyifod,  have  produced  a  Polish-Lithuanian  literature  fully 
as  rich  and  precious  as  the  wonderful  literature  of  the  German  "Sagen- 
kreise"  that  are  based  on  the  first  great  migrations.  Gustav  Freytag 
and  Feli.x  Dahn  have  therefore  justly  allotted  great  space  to  the  Slavo- 
Germanic  relations  in  their  respective  classical  works  of  German 
' '  Kulturgeschichte. ' ' 

Also  the  statement  that  "the  Teutons  during  the  period  of  the 
migrations  conquered  the  world  at  iJie  expeiise  of  tJiemseives,"  though 
not  new,  is  more  poetic  than  true.  "  In  the  time  of  Tacitus  they  were 
the  most  purely  aboriginal  (sic  !)  and  unadulterated  nation  of  Europe." 
It  is  true,  Tacitus  calls  them  "  tantum  sui  similes,"  but  even  in  the 
time  of  Charlemagne  they  are  not  at  all  Romanized  to  such  an  extent 
as  to  lose  their  individuality  in  any  way  ;  besides  the  Roman  world 


Francke.  99 

served  them  only  as  a  wonderful  fertilizer,  as  "captured  Greece  once 
conquered  on  her  part  the  fierce  conquerer  Rome  "  only  intellectually 
without  morally  or  physically  changing  it.  The  change  from  Wodan 
and  Donar  and  Frija  to  Christ,  after  the  overthrow  of  the  Roman 
Empire,  was  neither  sudden  nor  up-rooting  ;  their  old  faith  still  lin- 
gered for  centuries  and  was  yet  far  from  completed  at  the  time  of 
Bonifatius,  the  Apostle  of  the  Germans  ;  as  Freytag's  description  of 
the  gigantic  inner  struggle  between  the  old  and  new  faith  satisfactorily 
proves. 

"  Once,  in  their  native  woods,  they  were  free  men  ;  now,  on  foreign 
soil,  they  obey  kings."  Felix  Dahn,  in  his  standard  work  "'  Kotiige 
der  Germanen''  shows  plainly  how  limited,  how  dependent  and 
restricted  this  royal  power  actually  was,  how  the  "  Heerschau  "  and 
"  Volksversammlung,"  which  still  under  Chlodovech  convened  on  the 
first  of  March  as  so-called  campus  Martins,  hold  the  balance  of  power, 
the  law  and  the  final  decision  in  their  hands  ;  how  the  king  has  to  buy 
the  good  graces  of  the  comites  {grafjos),  the  princes  {centeriarii) ,  the 
jiidices,  co-operating  at  the  courts  on  the  "  Malstatten,"  and  how  the 
chiefs  placed  over  several  counties,  "Herzoge"  {duces),  soon  exer- 
cised an  almost  independent  sovereignty.  Not  the  kmgs  but  the 
territorial  lords  represented  the  greatest  danger  to  the  freemen  of  the 
German  tribes.  A  very  accurate  study  of  these  times,  so  far  as  the 
exceedingly  fragmentary  Greek  and  Latin  sources  permit,  is  necessary, 
since,  according  to  Francke' s  correct  statement — upon  this  dim  back- 
ground the  Germanic  epic  is  based  and  reflected. 

The  contrast  between  the  purity  of  morals  and  customs  in  Tacitean 
times  and  the  atrocities  of  Langobards  and  Franks  (Albion,  Brun- 
hild, Clovis  (Chlodovech)  seems  overdrawn.  Treachery,  perfidy  and 
savage  cruelty  appear  everywhere  in  dealing  with  the  Romans,  cf.  the 
relation  between  Arminius  and  Marobod,  the  assassination  of  the 
former  {dolo  propinquoruni)  ;  the  disaffection  of  Arminius'  brother, 
Flavus  ;  the  frightful  tribal  wars  of  extermination  ;  while  the  horrors 
of  the  Franks  cover  but  a  comparatively  short  period  of  absolute 
demoralization  ;  and  are  the  masses  of  the  Frankish  people  equally 
degraded  as  the  Merovingians  and  the  royal  women  ?  or  do  matters 
only  stand  so  that  quidquid  delirant  reges,  plectuntur  Achivif  The 
story  quoted  literally  from  Gregory  of  Tours  (p.  14)  bears  the  stamp 
of  falsehood  on  its  face.  But  even  if  all  the  terrible  deeds  of  a  savage 
time  be  true,  they  are  but  the  results  of  the  frightful  centuries  of  war 
of  all  against    all  ;  not  worse  than  the  horrible  slaughter  of  Anglo- 


TOO  Revieivs. 

Saxon  England  by  the  Normans  after  1066  ;  or  the  Thirty  Years' 
War  ;  or  the  hundred  years'  religious  war  in  France  ;  or  any  modern 
civil  war  in  a  semi-barbarous  European  colony. 

It  would  be  highly  interesting  to  show  in  extenso  that  "the  sagas 
of  Hilde,  Gudrun  and  Walthari  contain  the  same  old  mythical  basis  : 
the  rape  of  a  Valkyrie,  the  pursuit  of  the  robber,  and  a  violent  combat 
ensuing  from  it."  The  element  of  love  which  comes  out  in  especial 
purity  in  the  case  of  Walthari,  is  natural  and  fundamental  in  epic 
poetry  as  well  as  in  any  other  poetry  ;  Helen  and  Penelope  are  the 
very  core  and  marrow  of  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey  as  are  Kriemhild, 
Gudrun,  Hildegard  of  the  German  epics. 

Francke's  admirable  characterisation  of  the  Roman  Church  and  the 
Roman  Empire  will  help  to  dispel  the  erroneous  conceptions  about 
the  two  powers  which  are  yet  so  little  understood  in  the  Enghsh  world 
in  spite  of  Bryce's  luminous  distinction  of  them.  Still  the  statement 
how  and  why  the  secular  protectorate  over  the  Christian  world  was 
transferred  by  the  Pope  from  the  direct  heir  of  Rome,  the  Byzantine 
emperor,  to  the  simple  king  of  the  Franks  needs  elucidation.  It  was 
one  of  the  most  statesmanlike  acts  in  the  history  of  the  world  to  trans- 
fer ideal  power  from  the  legitimate,  but  impotent  actual  heir,  to  the 
potentially  all-powerful  king  of  a  people  heretofore  considered  bar- 
barian, but  to  whom  the  future  belonged  in  the  prophetic  foresight  of 
the  then  Vicar  of  Christ. 

As  already  mentioned,  Heliand  is  the  Savior  with  all  the  traits  of  a 
Saxon  "  Heerkonig."  Christ  is  conceived  of  as  the  ideal  German  king, 
representing  with  his  things  spiritual  and  secular  the  two  conflicting 
principles  of  the  time  :  the  struggle  for  supremacy  between  Church 
and  State.  Heliand  is  the  most  interesting  document  for  the  concep- 
tion of  Christianity  by  the  Saxons  about  830  :  it  is  to  a  large  extent 
still  pagan. 

Francke's  cardinal  point  that  with  the  rise  of  the  Church  and  its 
supremacy  over  the  state,  "  with  the  gradual  dismemberment  of  that 
empire  and  the  growth  and  expansion  of  the  Roman  Church  literature 
also  assumes  more  and  more  an  exclusively  clerical  appearance,"  is 
only  a  theory.  The  fact  seems  to  be,  that,  the  clergy  being  the  only 
literary  power,  everything  written  by  clerics  necessarily  assumed  a 
clerical  aspect,  though,  for  instance,  monk  Ekkehard's  Walthari  still 
shows  at  every  step  the  ruggedly  barbarian  current  under  his  Chistian 
surface.  Thus  the  difference  between  Heliand  and  Evangelienbuch 
seems  to  be  that :  Heliand  is  written  by  a  poet  who,  though  a  cleric, 


Francke.  loi 

has  still  a  half  pagan  conception  of  Christianity,  while  Otfrid  of 
Weissenburg  is  already  a  consummate  Christian. 

On  p.  45  a  chronological  misprint  should  be  corrected  .  Henry  I 
(9i2(!)-936)  instead  of  919-936. 

"  Even  in  the  best  of  these  poems,  such  as  Konig  Rothcr  and  Her- 
^og  Ernst,  the  imagination  is  crowded  with  stupendotis  monstrosities  " 
(p.  55).  But  are  these  strange  fancies  really  monstrosities  ?  All  fairy- 
tale fiction  with  its  giants  and  dwarfs,  its  striking  impossibilities  is  full 
of  such  traits.  Francke  does  not  seem  to  appreciate  this  special 
feature  of  the  folk-soul,  as  we  have  become  convinced  later  by  his 
estimate  of  Rabelais  and  Fischart  (p.  169),  in  regard  to  whom  he  says  : 
' '  Where  Rabelais  is  grotesque,  Fischart  is  absurd. ' '  This  judgment  is 
pertinent  only  in  his  criticism  of  Jean  Paul.  Also  Francke' s  estimate 
of  the  fantastic,  erratic  Frederick  II,  the  last  great  Hohenstaufe, 
disagrees  totally  with  that  of  the  best  historical  thinkers  (p.  66). 

The  description  of  chivalry  in  contradistinction  to  "the  common 
herd"  is  in  accordance  with  Francke' s  crystalized  convictions  in 
regard  to  the  classes  and  masses.  His  estimate  of  Walther's  patriotism 
and  religion  in  Minnesong  is  masterly,  though  the  old  "  Tandaradei" 
song  might  give  place  to  some  other  pearl  of  his  poetry.  It  is  hard 
to  see  much  "  girlish  bashfulness  "  in  that  special  song  (p.  70-73). 

Excellent  and  meritorious  is  Francke' s  estimate  of  the  shallowness 
and  conventionality  of  the  poets  of  chivalry,  the  study  of  which  so 
frequently  absorbs  the  whole  attention  of  Germanic  scholars.  Francke 
has  examined  once  for  all  the  whole  "  Talmiherrlichkeit  "  and  found 
it  too  light.  He  says  :  "  The  drapery  does  not  add  anything  to  the 
human  interest  of  the  conventional  chivalric  poetry," 

How  much  more  interesting  is  the  summary  of  the  manifold,  active, 
laborious,  blessing-bringing  life  in  the  rise  of  the  middle  classes  in 
chapter  iv  !  Francke  has  put  his  soul  into  the  rise  of  the  middle 
classes  in  which  he  sees  the princip/e  of  individualism  ;  but  I  cannot 
clearly  see  with  the  author  why  "  the  very  consciousness  of  having 
fought  for  their  existence  gave  to  the  German  cities  that  character  of 
intellectual  sturdiness  and  fearlessness  which  made  them  the  principal 
seats  of  the  mystic  movement  which  opened  their  gates  to  Hiwianism, 
which  rendered  them  the  firmest  allies  of  Luther"  (p.  104).  Were 
not  the  princes  and  especially  the  lower  gentry,  Ulrich  von  Hutten, 
Franz  von  Sickingen,  Goetz  von  Berlichingen,  and  also  the  poor 
peasantry  who  expectantly  waited  for  the  Lutheran  equality — but 
instead  were  "pierced,  burned,  quartered"  als  rebellische  u.  wider- 
spenstige  Bauern'' — the  stanchest  adherents  of  the  new  doctrine? 


I02  Reviews. 

Then  again  comes  such  a  brilliant  pearl  of  literary  criticism  as  that 
on  the  "  Volkslied"  which  may  be  placed  besides  the  few  classical 
statements  regarding  that  wonderful  outburst  of  the  soul  of  the  com- 
mon people  (pp.  116-117). 

Francke's  words  (p.  140),  ' '  The  religious  Reformation  had  been  born 
out  of  the  bitter  agonies  of  an  ardent  soul  seeking  after  truth,"  thus 
reducing  the  tremendous  movement  to  Luther  alone,  are  certainly 
incorrect,  There  are  great  and  enlightened  historians,  among  them 
Ranke  himself,  who  have  accurately  determined  Luther's  final  share 
in  the  movement.  The  Reformation  was  an  evolution,  not  the  work 
of  Luther.  Wycliff,  John  Huss,  Hieronymus  of  Prague,  and  not  less 
the  great  reformers  within  the  Church,  like  Nicolaus  Cusanus,  have 
contributed  their  share  towards  it. 

In  reformatory  ideas  it  is  hard  to  find  anything  in  Luther's  volum- 
inous works  that  may  not  be  found  also  in  those  of  his  forerunners, 
especially  Nicolaus  Cusanus,*  Gailer  von  Kaisersberg,  Sebastian  Brant, 
Erasmus,  Reuchlin,  etc.  But  Francke's  whole  appreciation  of  the 
humanists  seems  to  me  erroneous.  It  is  hard  for  one  who  has  lived 
for  years  with  the  humanists  and  has  been  refreshed  by  their  greatness 
and  classical  beauty  after  the  dearth  of  the  preceding  centuries,  to  hear 
that  "the  humanists  have  left  no  works  which  can  be  called  great," 
that  ' '  there  is  a  certain  shallowness  and  showiness  in  eveii  the  best  of 
them'"  (!)  (p.  142).  What  the  author  says  of  Erasmus  and  the  com- 
parison of  the  latter  with  Voltaire,  is  rather  exasperating.  Such  pass- 
ages as  this  are  not  in  keeping  with  the  generous  conception  peculiar 
to  the  writer,  but  a  false  conception.  Indeed,  Hutten's  words  "  Es  ist 
eine  Freude  zu  leben,"  applied  to  a  time  most  memorable  in  many 
respects  in  the  history  of  the  world,  does  not  seem  to  have  impressed 
our  author  as  deeply  as  the  poetry  of  Hauptmann,  Sudermann  and 
Johanna  Ambrosius. 

If  Francke  failed  to  bring  out  the  evolution  of  the  reformatory 
movement  and  too  readily  accepted  "the  shattering  oi  the  three  walls 
of  the  Papists"  by  Luther  (p.  751-52),  if  he  underrates  the  inner, 
reorganization  within  the  Church  to  which  in  the  end  the  Reformation 
became  a  blessing  in  disguise,  his  summary  is  again  as  masterly  as  ever  : 
"  As  a  result  of  his  own  teaching,  he  [Luther]  now  saw  the  country 
transformed  into  a  surging  sea,  tossed,  as  it  seemed  to  him,  by  evil 
doctrines  and  pernicious  contests  ....  And  how  different  the  intel- 
lectual history  of  Germany  would  have  been  if  the  man  [Luther]  .... 

*  Cf.  Ranke's  estimate,  Gesch  des  Zeitatters  der  Reformation,  vol.  i. 


Francke.  103 

had  not  ended  as  the  founder  of  a  new  orthodoxy  and  a  new  absolu- 
tism" (p.  161-62). 

A  common  place  as  on  p.  172  inaugurating  the  seventeeth  century  : 
"  If  it  is  true  that  for  nations  as  well  as  for  individuals,  every  moment 
of  existence  is  at  once  a  decay  and  a  growth  "  is  hardly  applicable  to 
the  condition  of  the  German  people  in  the  seventeenth  century.  For 
the  first  half  of  the  century  was  almost  absolute  destruction  and  from 
the  decayed  fertilizing  mass,  from  the  ruins  sprang  new  life  as  it  does 
everywhere  in  nature. 

The  name  of  Prussia  was  not  an  object  of  fear  at  the  time  of  the 
barbarian  soldier-king,  Frederick  William  I,  who  was  at  the  same  time 
the  school  master  of  the  Prussian  people.  Droysen  and  Schmoller 
ought  to  have  been  Francke's  source  here  rather  than  Zwiedineck  or 
Inama  Sternegg.  "Die  Preussen  schiessen  nicht,"  was  rather  the 
password  of  the  time.* 

How  could  his  study  of  comparative  literature  permit  the  author  to 
state  (p.  178)  that  "  European  literature  during  the  seventeenth  century 
was  held  in  the  bondage  of  a  set  of  arbitrary  rules  and  dictates"  (sc. 
of  the  Greek  and  Roman  classics),  even  if  Lessing  had  his  objections 
to  Corneille  and  Racine,  while  the  century  of  Louis  XIV  was  illumined 
by  the  most  brilliant  period  of  classicism  ?  And  even  in  Germany  the 
utter  poverty  of  the  literary  pseudo-classicism  after  the  Thirty  Years' 
War,  Opitz's  and  Gotsched's  servility  towards  princes  which  they 
served  according  to  "other  times,  other  morals"  and  according  to  a 
tenet  held  nearly  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  later  : 

"Unci  fiir  den  Dichter  giebt's  kein  hbheres  Gliick, 
Als  einem  Fursten,  den  er  ehrt,  zu  dienen," 

can  be  easily  explained.  The  fact  that  men  like  Paul  Fleming  and 
Simon  Dach  worshipped  Opitz  (p.  1S9),  shows  that  there  must  have 
been  an  element  of  strength.  These  men  prevented,  at  least,  the  con- 
tinuity of  German  literature  from  being  entirely  interrupted.  One 
should  not  wonder  so  much  that  the  period  in  question  was  so  utterly 
barren  and  wretched,  but  that  a  shadow  of  literture  was  still  left  under 
the  circumstances  .   .  . 

"  In  the  sixteenth  century  England  had  received  from  Germany  the 
spark  of  a  new  religious  life"  (p.  214)  ;  it  seems  to  me  that,  as  once 
Christianity  came  to  the  interior  of  Germany  from  England  and  Ireland 
— Fridolin,  Columban  and  his  disciple  Gallus,  Kilian  and  others  were 


*  Cf.  Germmt  Historical  Prose,  p.  140.     Holt  &  Co. 


I04  Reviezvs. 

missionaries  on  the  Rhine  up  to  Thuringia  ;  Anglo-Saxon  monks 
worked  among  the  Saxons  and  Frisians:  Willibrord,  bishop  of  Utrecht; 
Winfried  (Bonifatius),  born  in  682  in  Wessex,  the  Apostle  of  the 
Germans  {par  excelleyicc), — thus  the  movement  of  the  Reformation 
started  in  England  rather  than  in  Germany.* 

Is  Francke's  harsh  opinion  of  Gleim  just  (p.  222)?  Has  Gellert 
really  "not  a  fibre  of  creative  genius?  Is  the  wisdom  taught  in  his 
fables  really  so  "petty  and  nerveless,"  for  instance  in  the  "  Law-Suit  " 
and  the  "Story  about  the  Hat?"  What  produced  then  his  tremen- 
dous influence  at  home  and  abroad  ? 

Francke's  criticism  of  Frederick  the  Great  occupies,  in  accordance 
M'ith  his  powerful  indirect  influence  upon  the  second  period  of  German 
classicism,  a  broad  space  in  the  work.  Frederick's  sentimental  relation 
to  the  American  War  of  Independence  he  mentions  (p.  130),  without, 
however,  using  George  Bancroft's  excellent  account  of  the  relation 
which  would  have  shed  even  more  light  upon  the  character  of  that 
great  monarch.  Francke  seems  disappointed  that  the  king,  after  all, 
was  nothing  but  an  "enlightened  despot."  But  was  this  despotism 
at  that  time  not  an  absolutely  necessary  step  for  the  training  and 
education  of  the  Prussian  people  ?  There  are  excellent  historians  of 
literature,  freemen  at  the  same  time,  who  believe  that  to  the  historical 
splitting  of  the  German  nation  into  "  hundreds  of  lifeless  embryonic 
states"  the  manifoldedness,  ingenious  variety  of  German  literature 
was  due,  that  only  thus  the  Leipzig  School  and  the  Ziirich  School,  the 
Hainbund  and  the  Suabian  School,  and  the  point  of  culmination  at 
Weimar  could  be  reached.  I  cannot  believe  that  the  fact  that  Fred- 
erick was  reared  in  the  atmosphere  of  military  paternalism  or  that  he 
occupied  the  throne  "  of  a  state  whose  policy  had  ever  been  unscru- 
pulous aggrandizement  and  centralization,"  etc.,  prevented  him  from 
giving  his  people  a  constitution,  but  that  in  his  wisdom  and  statesman- 
ship he  recognized  the  absolute  impossibility  of  such  a  step  which 
would  have  thrown  the  entirely  different,  centrifugal  elements  of  his 
state  into  immediate  anarchy.  To  the  self-conscious  "unscrupulous 
aggrandizement  and  centralization"  of  the  Brandenburg  electors  and 
Prussian  kings,  however,  to  a  larger  extent  than  to  the  literary  dreams 
of  the  era  of  enlightment  is  due  the  establishment  of  the  modern 
German  Empire.  Francke  asks  the  question  (p.  22S),  "  what  would 
have  been  the  aspect  of  modern  German  civilization  if  Frederick, 
instead  of  throwing  the  weight   of   his  mighty  personality   into    the 

*  Cf.  the  lives  of  Wycliff,  Thomas  Morus,  etc. 


Fi'ancke.  105 

balance  of  monarchical  absolutism,  could  have  stood  for  the  cause  of 
popular  freedom."  The  answer  can  be  only  :  Total  disintegration  also 
of  Prussia  into  its  constituent  parts  and  continued  anarchy.  Nowhere 
does  Divine  Providence  appear  in  a  clearer  light  than  in  the  welding 
together  of  Prussia  by  blood  and  iron  to  make  it  powerful  enough  to 
forge  together  on  its  part  the  modern  German  Empire.  The  immense 
and  inestimable  share  taken  in  the  process  by  the  ' '  Denker  und  Dich- 
ter  "  of  the  nation  constitutes  but  the  intellectual  reverse  of  the  medal. 
I  have  exhausted  my  space  in  a  brief  survey  of  the  first  part  of 
Francke's  standard  work.  If  I  add  nothing  to  his  classical  description 
of  the  classical  period  of  German  literature,  it  cannot  enhance  or 
impair  the  value  of  a  book  which,  as  the  first  production  of  thorough 
investigation  in  this  domain,  tempered  by  a  scholarship  of  a  cognate, 
though  different  world  which  has  arisen  and  grown  up  under  so  totally 
different  conditions,  is  the  result  of  a  devoted,  manly,  self-abnegating 
life-work.  But  there  may  arise  an  opportunity  in  the  near  future  to 
use  the  notes  collected  on  the  second  part  of  the  volume.  The  purely 
literary  side  of  Francke's  work  will,  no  doubt,  be  taken  up  by  the 
most  competent  literary  critics,  for  a  great  book  like  this  has  many 
sides  and  many  aspects  and  can  only  be  coined  into  small  coin  by 
many  workers  in  the  various  fields  that  had  to  be  ploughed  by  the 
author  of  Social  Forces  in  German  literature.  To  German-American 
scholarship,  however,  it  can  be  but  a  source  of  pleasant  gratification 
that  one  of  its  most  worthy  representatives  should  have  combined  all 
the  elements  of  his  double  culture  to  produce  a  work  that  can  be 
unhesitatingly  ranked  among  the  best  Histories  of  German  literature. 

HERMANN   SCHOENFELD. 

THE  COLUMBIAN   UNIVERSITY, 
WASHINGTON,    D.  C. 


SPECIAL   MENTION. 


Poems  of  Uhland. — Selected  and  edited  by  Waterman  T.  Hewett, 
Ph.  D.,  Professor  of  the  German  Language  and  Literature  in 
Cornell  University.     Macmillan  &  Company,  New  York,  1S96. 
Pp.  Iviii,  352. 
A  most  welcome  edition  of  the  selected  poems  of  a  most  favorite 
poet.     One  needs  only  to  glance  at  the  list  of  English  translation  of 
Uhland's  poems,  p.  335,  to  see  that  this  poet  has  left  an  indelible  impress 
upon  the  English-speaking  people,  both  in  England   and   America. 
The  work  of  Professor  Hewett  places  Uhland  within   easy  reach  of 
every  student  of  German,  and  of  every  intelligent  reader  of  German. 
It  is  furnished  with  a  scholarly  introduction  and  judicious  notes,  with 
a  bibliography,  chronological  index  and   index   of   first  lines.     The 
editor's  point  of  view  in  the  notes  is  to  be  highly  commended,  as  he 
gives  in  a  few  words  the  historical  perspective  of  the  poem.     This  puts 
the  uninitiated  in  a  position  at  once  to  appreciate  the  poem.  This  feature 
of  the  notes  might  have  been  improved  if  more  stress  had  been  laid 
upon  the  genesis  of  the  poems  themselves — by  adding  a  word  as  to 
the  immediate  circumstances  under  which  a  given  poem  was  conceived. 
This  lack  is  in  part  atoned  for  by  the  chronological  arrangement  of 
the  poems  which  the  student  can  fit  into  the  incidents  of  the  poet's 
life  as  set  forth  in  the  Biographical  Introduction.     The  bibhography 
will  be  particularly  welcome  to  students  of  German,    as  it   includes 
articles  published  in  periodicals  as  well  as  separate  treatises.     Uhland's 
influence  on  German  music  is  well  illustrated  by  Dr.  Max  Friedlander's 
list  of  the  more  important  composers  of  Uhland's  poems,  p.  342-43. 
We  may  close  with  the  wish  that  we  had  Goethe's  poems  in  as  accept- 
able an  edition  as  Professor  Hewett  has  made  his  edition  of  Uhland's. 

First  Settlement  of  Germans  in  Maryland. — A  paper  read 
by  Edward  T.  Schultz  before  the  Frederick  County  Historical 
Society,  January  17,  1896,  etc.     David  H.   Smith,   Frederick, 
Md.,  1896.     Pp.  60. 
The  first  one  who  made  a  systematic  attempt  to  go  beyond  the  gen- 
eral statements  of  the  local  histories  touching  the  early  German  settle- 
ments in  Western  Maryland  was  L.   P.  Hennighausen,  Esq.,  of  the 
Baltimore  Bar.     About  the  same  time,   however,    Mr.    Schultz,   the 


Schultz^  Sachse.  107 

author  of  the  present  volume,  began  to  conceive  of  the  plan  of 
extending  these  researches  and  bringing  together  the  facts  into  a 
treatise. 

After  summing  up  the  few  scattered  facts  relating  to  the  settlement 
of  the  Labadists  at  Bohemia  Manor,  Cecil  County,  about  168 1  and  to 
the  migration  of  Germans  from  Pennsylvania  to  Virginia  from  17 14 
on,  he  relates  how  many  of  "  the  Germans  on  their  way  to  Spottsyl- 
vania,"  attracted  by  the  offers  of  rich  land  about  Monocacy,  stopped 
and  settled  near  the  present  Frederick. 

Mr.  Schultz  discusses  the  later  accessions  of  Germans  in  conse- 
quence of  Lord  Baltimore's  generous  offer  of  land  in  1735,  the  laying 
out  of  Frederick  town  1745,  and  shows  that  the  Reformed  in  this 
locality  built  their  first  log  church  in  1748  and  the  Lutherans  their 
stone  church  in  Frederick  in  1752.  Then  follows  a  detailed  account 
of  the  German  settlements  in  other  parts  of  Western  Maryland,  which 
furnishes  many  facts  not  found  in  the  local  histories.  Mr.  Schultz' s 
account  shows  that  there  was  a  more  or  less  constant  stream  of  migra- 
tion to  Western  Maryland  as  there  was  to  Pennsylvania. 

A  most  interesting  paragraph  is  that  treating  of  the  "Customs, 
Habits,  etc.,  of  the  Early  Settlers"  p.  18  ff.  Here  we  see  again  the 
great  part  played  by  the  "  conestoga  wagon"  in  early  German  colo- 
nization in  America.  The  work  is  furnished  with  a  map  of  '  'Monocacy, ' ' 
and  the  supplementary  chapter  treats  of  the  village  of  Monocacy. 
We  wish  many  other  local  historians  would  do  for  their  localities  what 
Mr.  Schultz  has  done  for  his.  The  author  could  have  given  more 
scientific  value  to  his  work  by  a  detailed  statement  of  his  sources. 

The  German  Pietists  of  Provincial  Pennsylvania. — By  Julius 

Friedrich  Sachse,  Philadelphia.     Printed  for  the  author,  1895. 

Letter  Press  Edition  in  500   numbered   copies.     Price  ^5.00. 

Pp.  xviii,  604. 

That   many  movements  bearing  the  stigma  of  strong  disapproval 

have  become  elements  of  strength  in  the  development  of  our  national 

character  is  so  much  of  a  common  place  in  American  history  that  it 

scarcely  needs  emphasis,   except  to  call  attention  to  some  of  those 

movements  which  have  been  long  misunderstood  and  unjustly  ignored. 

Such  a  movement  is  that  characterized  by  the  very  general  term  of 

Pietism,  which  brought  to  the  shores  of  the  New  World,   particularly 

to    Pennsylvania,    a  large  influx  of  Germans  during  the  eighteenth 

century. 


lo8  Special  Mention. 

Pietism,  in  the  first  instance,  in  its  proper  and  better  sense,  was  but 
a  phase  of  the  religious  awakening  of  the  seventeenth  century,  but  in 
its  operations  it  became  the  medium  of  transmission  for  philosophical 
thought  and  even  for  science  and  literature.  Much  of  the  devotional  life 
of  the  early  church  in  Pennsylvania — Lutheran,  Reformed,  Moravian 
and  Quaker — was  pietism  in  the  legitimate  sense  of  the  word  or  what 
was  designated  as  Church  Pietism  as  distinguished  from  that  repre- 
sented by  the  Seperatists  of  various  sects. 

Contrary  to  the  wide-spread  impression,  the  leaders  of  the  early 
German  Pietists  were  not  untutored  religious  enthusiasts,  but  men  of 
learning,  some  of  them  of  profound  learning,  the  best  that  the  great 
Universities  of  the  time  could  offer.  Such  was  particularly  the  case 
with  Johannes  Kelpius,  the  foremost  of  the  German  Mystics  of  the 
Province  of  Pennsylvania, — "  The  Hermit  of  the  Wissahickon." 

That  these  early  mystics  on  the  Wissahickon  as  well  as  those  at 
Ephrata,  like  many  of  their  extreme  pietistic  neighbors,  were  in  the 
direct  line  of  descendance  from  Jacob  Boehme  and  the  mystics  of  the 
fourteenth  century,  has  long  been  recognized  ;  but  the  accounts  hitherto 
published  have  dealt  chiefly  with  such  facts  as  are  accessible  in  Ameri- 
can records  and  in  well-known  treatises  on  mystic  philosophy. 

It  is  to  Mr.  Julius  F.  Sachse  that  we  owe  the  first  comparative 
treatise  on  the  German  Pietists  in  Pennsylvania  with  the  European 
sources  under  control. 

Preparatory  to  his  work  Mr.  Sachse  made  an  extended  tour  of  Ger- 
many, exploiting  the  libraries  for  old  prints,  and  succeeded  in  collecting 
much  new  and  valuable  matter,  which  he  has  mentioned  in  the  foot- 
notes to  his  book. 

With  these  materials,  the  most  important  of  which  are  practically 
new  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic,  Mr.  Sachse  proceeds  to  discuss  the 
origin,  doctrines,  practices  and  final  dismemberment  of  the  mystical 
settlement  on  the  Wissahicken  known  as  "  The  Woman  of  the  Wilder- 
ness." About  all  that  was  heretofore  known  of  the  doctrines  of  these 
mystics  was  that  they  founded  their  belief  in  the  near  approach  of  the 
Second  Advent  upon  the  well-known  passage.  Revelations,  12,  14-17. 
Mr.  Sachse  brings  them  into  connection  with  the  Rosicrucians  of  the 
time  in  Germany,  and  indicates  the  points  of  similarity  between  the 
doctrines  of  the  Mystics  of  the  Wissahickon  and  the  mystic  symbol- 
ism of  the  Rosicrucians.  He  goes  further  and  traces  the  relations  of 
these  Mystics  to  the  Pietists  in  Germany,  and  brings  the  Pietists  them- 
selves into  connection  with  the  doctrines  of  the  Rosicrucians. 

' '  The  men  who  composed  this  chapter  of  mystics  [The  Woman  in 


Sachse.  io9 

the  Wilderness]  were  not  only  Pietists  in  the  accepted  sense  of  the 
word,  but  they  were  also  a  true  theosophical  (Rosicrucian)  community, 
a  branch  of  the  ancient  mystical  brotherhood  who  studied  and  prac- 
tised the  "Kabbala  "  (p.  62).  With  these  leaders  of  the  chapter  of 
mystics  on  the  Wissahickon  were  associated,  before  they  left  Ger- 
many, such  persons  as  Dr.  Johann  Wilhelm  Petersen,  Professor  of 
Poetry  in  Rostock,  and  his  wife  Eleanore  von  Merlau.  The  original 
leader  of  the  chapter,  Johann  Jacob  Zimmermann,  who  died  on  the 
eve  of  embarkation  for  America,  was  "well  versed  in  geometry, 
geomancy  and  astrology  as  well  as  theology." 

Of  especial  interest  is  Mr.  Sachse' s  treatment  of  the  tabernacle  of 
this  mvstical  colony  on  the  Wissahickon.  From  the  scattered  re- 
mains and  surviving  traditions  of  this  structure  he  reconstructs  a 
building  combining  all  the  essential  features  of  a  temple  and  astronom- 
ical observatory.  It  was  here  that  the  forty  brethren,  "the  perfect 
number,"  "arrived  at  according  to  the  esoteric  symbolism  of  the 
Rosicrucian  Fraternity,"  met  to  receive  the  results  of  the  observations 
made  by  the  scientific  members  with  the  telescope  and  other  instru- 
ments, "so  that  in  case  the  Bridegroom  came  in  the  middle  of  the 
night  their  lamps  would  be  found  to  be  filled  and  trimmed."  ' '  This 
structure  was  forty  feet  square  and  true  to  the  cardinal  points  of  the 
compass,"  and  nightly  watch  was  kept  by  the  scientific  members  of  the 

fraternity. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  trace  the  influence  of  these  early  astro- 
nomical observations  on  the  Wissahickon  in  stimulating  the  later 
scientific  studies  of  David  Rittenhouse  and  Benjamin  Franklin. 

Mr.  Sachse  then  proceeds  to  discuss  in  minute  detail  the  history  of 
this  community  in  its  relations  to  their  early  pietistic  neighbors, 
closing  Part  I  with  a  chapter  on  the  location  of  the  tabernacle. 

Part  II  contains  biographical  sketches  of  Magister  Johannes  Kelpius, 
the  first  leader  of  the  society  in  America,  of  Heinrich  Bernhard  Koster, 
Daniel  Falkner,  Johan  Gottfried  Seelig,  Justus  Falkner,  Conrad 
Matthai,  Dr.  Christopher  Witt;  closing  with  the  chapter  entitled 
"The  Romance  of  Spook  Hill,"  which  recounts  the  surviving 
reminiscences  of  the  mystical  settlement. 

The  Appendix  is  devoted  to  Benjamin  Furley,  Johan  Jacob  Zim- 
mermann and  Andreas  Rudman. 

The  book  is  superbly  illustrated  with  about  two  hundred  cuts,  which 
are  in  themselves  models  of  book  art. 

This  first  work  really  constitutes  but  one  chapter  of  the  entire  History 
of  the  Pietists  in  Pennsylvania.  The  author  has  in  preparation  a 
second  volume  on  the  Community  at  Ephrata. 


PERSONAL. 


Professor  Calvin  Thomas,  who  was  called  from  the  German  Depart- 
ment of  the  University  of  Michigan  to  succeed  the  late  Professor  H.  H. 
Boyesen  as  Professor  of  German  Literature  at  Columbia  University, 
has  just  returned  from  a  year's  sojourn  in  Germany  (chiefly  at  Wei- 
mar), to  take  up  the  duties  of  his  new  position  in  New  York. 

Professor  G.  A.  Hench,  of  the  University  of  Michigan,  has  been 
appointed  to  succeed  Professor  Thomas  as  head  of  the  German 
Department  in  that  institution.  While  in  Germany  during  the  Sum- 
mer, Professor  Hench  published  an  article  on  the  Gothic  Guth  in  Paul 
and  Braune's  Beitrdge. 

Dr.  A.  B.  Faust  has  recently  been  called  from  the  instructorship  of 
German  in  Johns  Hopkins  University  to  the  Associate  Professorship 
of  German  at  Wesleyan  University,  Middletown,  Conn.  Professor 
Faust  is  issuing  a  volume  entitled  Life  and  Letters  of  Charles 
Scalsfield,  which  is  being  published  by  Emil  Felber  in  Weimar. 

Professor  J.  T.  Hatfield,  director  of  the  German  Department  at  the 
Northwestern  University,  has  a  leave  of  absence  to  prosecute  his 
researches  in  Germany.  His  place  is  temporarily  filled  by  Professor 
Curme  of  Cornell  College. 

Dr.  F.  G.  G.  Schmidt,  who  has  just  taken  the  degree  of  Ph.  D.  in 
German  at  Johns  Hopkins  University,  has  been  made  Acting  Professor 
of  German  at  Cornell  College,  Mt.  Vernon,  Iowa. 

Dr.  Max  F.  Blau  has  been  appointed  Associate  in  German  Literature 
in  the  German  Department  of  Bryn  Mawr  College. 

Dr.  T.  S.  Baker,  Assistant  in  German  in  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
has  been  promoted  to  succeed  Dr.  Faust  as  Instructor  of  German  at 
that  University. 

Dr.  W.  A.  Haussmann  has  resigned  his  position  at  the  Southern 
Female  College  to  occupy  the  Chair  of  Modern  Languages  in  Burling- 
ton College. 

Dr.  Ernst  Voss,  has  been  elected  to  the  Associatship  in  German  at 
the  University  of  Wisconsin  to  succeed  Dr.  Wilkens,  who  is  spending 
the  winter  in  the  east  to  prepare  some  work  for  publication. 


NEW    PUBLICATIONS    FROM   GERMANY. 


Althof,  Prof.  Dr.  H. — Das  Waltharilied,  ein  Heldengedicht  aus  dem 
zehnten  Jahrhundert  im  Versmasze  der  Urschrift  ubersetzt  underlautert- 
G.  F.  Goschen'sche  Buchhandlung.     Leipzig,  1896. 

1  Anti-Kalamoboas. — Das  Moderne  Zeitungswesen,  seine  wissens- 
chaftliche  Begriffsbestimmung  und  seine  Stellung  im  Culturleben. 
Zwei  akademische  Vortrage  als  Einleitung  in  einen  Cyclus  offendicher 
Vorlesungen  iiber  :  Die  Grundziige  des  litterarischen  Anstands  im 
Hinblick  auf  die  Goethe'sche  Idee  der  Welditteratur.  Karl  Binder. 
Leipzig  und  Noesen,  1897. 

Deutschland,  Deutschland  iiber  alles  !  Aufsatze  und  Reden  aus 
zehn  Jahrgangen  "  Akademischer  Blatter"  (Verbandsorgans  der 
Vereine  deutscher  Studenten).     Fr.  Wilh.  Grunow.     Leipzig,  1896. 

Ernst,  Adolf  Wilhelm. — Neue  Bertrage  zu  Heinrich  Leutholds 
Dichterportrait :  mit  49  Original  iibersetzungen  und  mit  literarhistor- 
ischen  Aufsatzen  Leuthold's.     Conr.  Klosz.     Hamburg,  1897. 

Gering,  Hugo. — Glossar  zu  den  Liedern  der  Edda  (Saemundar  Edda) 

2  Aufl.     Fred.  Schoningh.     Paderborn,  1896. 

Harder,  Franz. — Werden  und  Wandern  unserer  Worter.  Etymo- 
logische  Plaudereien,  zweite,  wesentlich  verbesserte  Aufl.  R.  Gaert- 
ner.     Berlin,  1896, 

Kahle,  Dr.  B. — Altislandisches  Elementarbuch.  Carl  Wintner. 
Heidelberg,  1896. 

Kampers,  Dr.  F. — Die  Deutsche  Kaiseridee  in  Prophetie  und  Sage. 
Dr.  H.  Liineberg.     Miinchen,  1896. 

Kiichler,  M.  Phil.  Carl. — Geschichte  der  Islandischen  Dichtungder 
Neuzeit  (1800-1900).     Hermann  Haacke.     Leipzig,  1896. 

Leitzmann,  Albert. — ^Jugendbriefe  Alexander  von  Humboldts  an 
Wilhelm  Gabriel  Wegener.  G.  I.  Goschen'sche  Verlagshandlung. 
Leipzig,  1896. 

Lincke,  Dr.  Phil.  A. — Die  neuesten  Riibezahlforschungen.  Ein 
Blick  in  die  Werkstatt  der  mythologischen  Wissenschaft.  Vortrag. 
Zahn  &  Jansch.     Dresden,  1896. 

Mosapp,  Dr.  Her^n. — Charlotte  von  Schiller,  Ein  Lebens-und 
Charakterbild.     Max  Kielmann.     Heilbronn,  1896. 


112  Neiv  Publications  /ro)H   Germany. 

NieieJi,  Dr.  Phil.  Otto. — Lessings  religions-philosophische  Ansich- 
ten  bis  zum  Jahre  1770,  in  ihren  historischen  Zusammenhang  und  in 
ihren  historischen  Beziehungen,  nebst  Anhang  :  Griindziige  von  Les- 
sings  Religionsphilosophie.     Justus  Naumann.     Dresden,  1896. 

Osivald,  I.  G^.  — -Friedrich  Theodor  Vischer  als  Dichter  (Samml. 
gemeinverstandl.  wiss.  Vortrage,  Heft  249).     Hamburg,  1896. 

Rabenlechner ,  Dr.  Michael  Maria. — Die  ersten  Versuche  Hamer- 
Hngs.     Zur  Geschichte  seines  Zwettler  Aufenthalts.     Hamburg,  1896. 

Saul,  Dr.  D. — Schiller  im  Dichtermund.  Fr.  Frommann.  Stutt- 
gart, 1896. 

Schlossar,  Dr.  Anton. — Nikolaus  Lenaus  Briefe  an  Emilie  von 
Reinbeck  und  deren  Gatten  George  von  Reinbeck  1832- 1844  nebst 
Emilie  von  Reinbecks  Aufzeichnungen  liber  Lenaus  Erkrankung  1844- 
1846,  nach  den  groszenteils  ungedruckten  Originalen.  Adolf  Bonz 
&  Comp.     Stuttgart,  1896. 

Schrader,  Dr.  Hermaii. — Aus  dem  Wundengarten  der  deutschen 
Sprache.     Emil  Felber.     Weimar,  1896. 

Sclmbert,  J. — Die  Philosophischen  Grundgedanken  in  Goethes  Wil- 
helm  meister.     C.  G.  Naumann.     Leipzig,  1896. 

Vogt,  Prof.  Dr.  Fr.  7ind  Prof.  Dr.  Max  Koch. — Geschichte  der 
Deutschen  Litteratur  von  den  altesten  Zeiten  bis  zur  Gegenwart.  i. 
Heft.     Leipzig  u    Wien  Bibliograph,  Institut.     1896. 

Wagner,  Martin. — Soldatenlieder  aus  dem  deutsch-franzbsischen 
Kriege  von  1870-71.    Hamburg,  1896. 

Walcker,  Dr.  Karl: — Die  Frage  der  Allgemeinen  Bildung  und  der 
Zeitungsreform.     Herm.  Haacke.     Leipzig,  1896. 

Winkler,  Hei7irich. — Germanische  Casussyntax,  L  Der  Dativ, 
Instrumental  ortfliche  und  halbortliche  Verhaltnisse.  Ferd.  Diimmlers 
Verlagsbhdlg.     Berlin,  1896. 

Wirth,  Moritz. — Die  Entdeckung  des  Rheingolds  aus  seinen  wah- 
ren  Dekorationen.  Mit  einer  Zeichnung  der  Walhalllandschaft.  Const. 
Wild.      Leipzig,  1896. 

Zache,  Walther  A. — Wulfila,  Abrisz  des  Gothischen  fiir  Anf anger, 
Max  Hoffmann.     Leipzig- Reudnilz,  1896. 


,^\ 


Vol.  I.  1897  No.  2. 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA. 


A  GERMAN  POEM 
BY  FREDERICK  AUGUSTUS    MUHIvENBERG. 


Among  the  heroic  characters  prominent  in  the  shaping  of  our 
present  form  of  government,  few  men  stand  out  in  bolder 
relief  than  Frederick  Augustus  Miihlenberg,  the  preacher,  states- 
man and  scholar  of  the  Revolutionary  period.  His  political 
career  commenced  when  he  was  elected  to  fill  a  vacancy  in  the 
Continental  Congress,  March  2,  1779.  He  was  re-elected  upon 
the  expiration  of  his  term,  and  took  his  seat  with  the  Pennsyl- 
vania delegation,  November  13th  of  the  same  year;  whereupon 
he  was  immediately  appointed  upon  the  Committee  on  the 
Treasury,  His  various  services  in  the  Continental  Congress, 
particularly  as  chairman  of  the  Medical  Committee  which 
virtually  made  him  director-general  of  the  military  hospitals, 
are  all  well  known  facts  in  our  history.  His  subsequent  election 
to  the  Pennsylvania  Assembly,  whereof,  at  the  opening  session, 
November  3,  1780,  he  was  elected  Speaker,  being  successively 
re-elected  in  the  Assemblies  of  1 781-1782,  and  his  election  to 
the  Board  of  Censors  of  Pennsylvania,  of  which  he  was  chosen 
president,  an  office  filled  by  him  until  the  dissolution  of  that 
body  September  25,  1784,  all  tended  to  increase  the  renown  of 
the  Pennsylvania-German  preacher-statesman  as  a  parliamen- 
tarian, and  to  exhibit  his  peculiar  fitness  as  a  presiding  officer. 

When,  shortly  after  the  close  of  the  American  Revolution,  it 
was  found  that  the  articles  of  confederation  were  unsuitable  for 


2  Frederick  Augustus  Muhlenberg. 

the  permanent  existence  of  the  United  Colonies,  and  the  present 
Constitution  was  submitted  to  the  various  States  for  adoption, 
we  again  find  him  in  the  front  battling  for  stable  government. 
It  may  be  well  for  our  New  England  friends  and  other  writers 
to  remember  when  they  aim  the  darts  of  their  ill-timed  jests 
at  the  Pennsylvania-Dutch,  that  it  was  Frederick  Augustus 
Miihlenberg,  a  Pennsylvania-German  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the 
term,  who  presided  over  the  convention  in  which  the  present 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  adopted.  When  the 
present  form  of  government  was  organized  the  subject  of 
our  sketch  was  elected  as  the  Speaker  of  the  first  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives. He  then  served  successively  in  the  Second,  Third 
and  Fourth  Congresses,  being  chosen  again  as  Speaker  of  the 
Third  Congress,  and  in  the  Fourth  as  chairman  of  the  Committee 
of  the  Whole. 

It  was  while  serving  in  this  capacity,  in  the  critical  period 
caused  by  the  negotiation  of  the  Jay  Treaty,  that  Frederick 
Augustus  Miihlenberg  cast  the  deciding  vote  in  favor  of  an 
appropriation  for  carrying  out  the  provisions  of  the  treaty,  there- 
by insuring  peace  and  prosperity  to  our  country. 

It  is  not,  however,  with  the  political  career  of  the  "  First 
Speaker  "  that  this  paper  is  intended  to  deal,  but  to  place  him 
before  the  present  generation  in  the  role  of  a  German  poet,  and 
at  the  same  time  to  reprint  a  poem  written  by  him  when  he  was 
but  eighteen  years  of  age.  It  has  lately  been  discovered  among 
a  number  of  similar  effusions  in  the  archives  of  the  IVaisenhaus 
at  Halle,  and  thus  far  seems  to  have  escaped  the  notice  of  local 
investigators. 

It  is  well  known  to  the  descendants  of  the  Miihlenberg  family 
and  to  students  of  Pennsylvania  history,  that  Muhlenberg, 
throughout  his  whole  political  career,  never  neglected  the  Ger- 
man language,  much  of  his  private  correspondence  being  written 
therein.  The  same  applies  to  numerous  newspaper  articles 
which  appeared  at  different  times  in  the  periodicals  of  the  day. 

The  poem  here  reproduced  was  written  upon  the  occasion  of 
the  death  of  Gotthilf  August  Francke,  September  2,  1769,  who 


Julius  F.  Sachse.  3 

was  then  the  head  of  the  Francke  (Halle)  institutions,  to  which 
the  three  Miihlenberg  scions  had  been  sent  to  prepare  for  the 
ministry. 

The  elder  Miihlenberg,  as  is  well  known,  was  sent  to  America 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the  elder  (August  Hermann) 
Francke  ;  and  wh6n  his  second  son  was  baptized  in  the  old 
Augustus  Church  at  the  Trappe,  in  Pennsylvania,  Herr  Pro- 
fessor Francke  [Gotthilf  August]  son  of  the  above,  and  Ew: 
Hofprediger  [Friedrich  Michael]  Ziegenhagen  of  London, 
appear  as  titulary  sponsors  to  the  young  Friedrich  August  Con- 
rad Muhlenberg,  his  grandfather  Conrad  Weiser  being  the  actual 
sponsor  and  proxy  for  the  other  two.  It  will  be  noticed  that  the 
young  child  bore  one  of  the  names  of  each  sponsor.^ 

The  three  Miihlenberg  boys  left  Philadelphia  April  27,  1763, 
and  after  a  short  sojourn  in  London  reached  Halle  September 
ist.  The  subject  of  our  sketch  was  then  but  thirteen  years  old. 
How  Peter  the  eldest  chafed  under  the  restraint  of  the  discipline 
at  the  Francke  Psedagogium,  and  suddenly  took  his  departure, 
is  well  known.  The  two  younger  brothers,  however,  proved 
more  tractable  and  studious.  So  closely  did  they  apply  them- 
selves to  their  studies,  it  is  said,  both  boys  in  less  than  three 
years,  while  they  had  perfected  themselves  in  the  German,  Latin, 
Greek  and  Hebrew  tongues,  actually  forgot  all  they  had  known 
of  English  upon  their  arrival. 

Be  this  as  it  may,  young  Friedrich,  being  the  god-child  of  the 
Reverend  Director,  was  taken  under  his  immediate  care  and 
tutelage,  and  both  brothers,  though  young  in  years,  made  rapid 
progress  in  the  Gottesgelahrtheit  of  the  day. 

Upon  the  sixth  anniversary  of  their  arrival  at  Halle  a  sad 
calamity  overtook  the  celebrated  Halle  Institution.  This  was 
the  death  of  the  Director,  Gotthilf  August  Francke.  It  was 
upon  this  mournful  occasion  that  Frederick,  the  theological 
student,  composed  the  following  poem  upon  the  death  of  his 
friend,  sponsor  and  benefactor.     When  it  was  presented  to  the 

^  See  Matricul  of  the   Augustus   Kirche  :    born  January   2,    1750  ;    baptized 
January  15th. 


4  Frederick  Augustus  Muhlenberg. 

faculty  it  also  bore  the  signature  of  the  youngest  brother,  Gott- 
hilf  Heinrich  Ernst,^  then  not  yet  sixteen  years  of  age. 

So  well  was  this  effort  of  the  Pennsylvanian  received,  that  it 
was  incorporated  among  the  Trauer  und  Trost  Schri/ten  in  the 
Denkmal  der  schuldige7i  Hochachtung  U7id  Liebe  to  the  late 
G.  A.  Francke.^ 

The  two  brothers,  shortly  after  the  death  of  their  friend  and 
tutor,  left  the  Saline  City  on  the  Saale,  and  returned  to  America, 
arriving  in  Pennsylvania  in  the  following  year.  At  the  next 
general  Synod,  held  at  Reading  in  the  fall  of  the  same  year, 
they  both  appeared  before  the  Examining  Board  of  Ministers, 
and  gave  such  proof  of  their  qualifications  that  they  were  ordained 
to  the  holy  ministry  {collaboratores  mimsterii)  October  25,  1770, 
though  neither  of  them  was  yet  of  a  legal  age. 

The  poem,  which  is  a  veritable  literary  curiosity,  full  of 
rhythm  and  pathos,  is  here  reproduced  verbatim  et  literatim 
from  the  original  print. 

Wie,  wenn  ein  wilder  Sturm  die  hohe  Ceder  splittert, 

Die  andre  Baume  iibersieht, 
Sie  fallt — ihr  Heer  befiederter  Bewohner  zittert, 

Und  aus  der  Zweige  Schutz  entflieht : 

So  zitterten  auch  wir,  so  traf  auch  uns  das  Wetter, 

Als  unser  Francke  :  Gute  Nacht ! 
Als  unser  VATER,  unser  FUHRER,  unser  RETTER 

Zum  letzten  mal :  Ich  sterbe  !  sagt. 

Denn  blickt'  SEIN  starres  Aug  noch  einmal  auf  zum  Himmel, 

Und  dachte  GOtt,  und  uns,  und  sich, 
Verliess  die  Welt  und  all  ihr  tobendes  Getiimmel, 

Und  eilt, — und  nun — SEIN  Geist  entwich, 


''■  Born  November  17th  ;  baptized  December  4,  1753. 

^  Denkmal  |  der  Schuldigen  Hochachtung  und  Liebe  [  gestiftet  |  dem  Weiland 
I  Hochwiirdigen   und  Hochgelarten  |  HERRN  ]  D.    GOTTHILF  AUGUST  | 
FRANCKEN,  |  Konigl.  Preuss.     Consistorialrath  im  Herzogtum  Magdeburg  | 
der  Friedrichs  Universitat,  der  Theologischen  Facultat  und  des  Stadt  |  Ministerii 
Senior  und  erster  Inspector  im  Saalkreis,  wie  auch  des  |  Padagogii  Regii  und 
des  Waisenhauses  Director  | 

HAIvLE  in  der  Buchhandlung  des  Waisenhauses  1770. 


Julius  F.  Sachse. 

Und  schwingt  sich  freudig  hin,  zu  jenen  hohern  Spharen, 

Die  nur  ein  Seraph  singen  kan, 
(Wir  wagens  nicht)  vereint  mit  den  verklarten  Heeren 

Biickt  ER  sich  tief,  und  betet  an. 

Den  GOtt,  dem  ER  gedient,  und  unter  dessen  Knechten 

Ein  andrer  Simeon   ER   war. 
Nun  feiret  ER  dankbar  zu  Seines  GOttes  Rechten 

Ein  langes  frohes  Jubeljahr. 

Den  Boten  sahen  wir  durch  unzahlbare  Mengen 

Das  bleiche  Angesicht  verhiillt, 
Da  war  die  Luft  mit  bangen  lauten  Klaggesangen 

Verlassner  Waisen  angefuUt. 

Ach  unser  Vater  stirbt,  so  klagten  einst  die  Stamme 

Um  Samuel,  da  er  entschlief. 
Er  flieht  von  uns  !  Wer  ists,  der  unsre  Thranen  hemme  ? 

So  achzen  FRANCKENS  Waisen  tief. 

So  klagen  wir,  auch  wir,  die  aus  entferntem  Lande 

Gekommen  sind,  um  IHN  zu  sehn. 
Ach  mussten  wir  darum  von  DELAWARENS  Strande 

Von  den  begluckten  Ufern  gehn, 

Um  SEINEN  Abschied  hier  noch  bitterer  zu  schmecken, 

Als  dort  in  PHILADELPHIA  : 
Mit  Blasse  muss  SEIN  Aug  der  Todesengel  decken, 

SEIN  Auge,  das  so  heiter  sah, 

Wenn  es  empfindungsvoll  in  unverstellten  Thranen 

Am  GOtt  geheiligten  Altar 
Zerfloss  !  wenn  ER  im  Geist  von  iiberirdschen  Scenen 

Ein  heilger  Seher  GOttes  war. 

Und  Wenn  Sein  zartes  Herz  ein  Heer  verlassner  Waisen 

Arm,  elend  und  in  Nothen  sah, 
Denn  musste  man  den  ewigen  Wohlthater,  preisen. 

Den  man  im  Bild  am  FRANCKEN  sah. 

Dein  selger  Geist  bUckt  noch,  Verklarter,  auf  uns  nieder, 

Die  ER  in  Kedars  Hiitten  Hess, 
VerherrUcht  singt  DEIN  Mund  in  Salem  Jubellieder, 

Viel  schwacher  singen  wir  nur  dis. 


5  Frederick  Augustus  Ali'ihlenberg. 

Erhalter,  Schbpfer,  GOtt,  Jehova,  deine  Gute, 

Die  sich  noch  stets  erneuert  zeigt, 
Die  sey  auch  iiber  uns — Sie  troste  das  Gemiithe 

Der  Gattin,  die  der  Schlag  so  beugt. 

Und  kriiftig  troste  den,  der  noch  um  FRANCKEN  weinet, 

Und  jedes  arme  Waisenkind — 
Begleite  du  auch  uns  ! — bis  wir  mit  dir  vereinet 

Bey  dir  in  Salems  Hiitten  sind. 

Kindliche  Zahren  zweer  Briider, 
vergossen  von 
FRIEDRICH  AUGUST  CONRAD  MUHLENBERG, 
GOTTHILF  HEINRICH  ERNST   MUHLENBERG, 
aus  Philadelphia  in  Amerika, 
der  heiligen  Gottesgelahrtheit  Beflissenen. 

Julius  Friedrich  Sachse. 

Phii,adei,phia,  January,  ^Sgy. 


LENAU  IN  AMERIKA/ 


N1K01.AUS  Lknaus  Biograpli  iind  Sell  western!  aim  Anton  X. 
Schurz  nennt  den  Schwager  "  den  grossten  lyrischen  Dichter 
der  vor  alien  andern  Volkern  lyrischen  Deutschen."^  Obwohl 
eine  unbefangene  Kritik  dem  durcli  Pietat  und  Begeisterung  fiir 
den  Dichter  beeinflussten  Urteil  des  Schwestermannes  nicht 
beipflichten  wird,  so  stelit  doch  fest,  dass  sich  seit  Goethe  mit 
Lenau  mehr  Federn  beschaftigt  haben,  als  mit  irgend  einem 
Dichter — vielleicht  Heine  ansgenommen. 

Die  allgemeine  Aufmerksamkeit,  welche  man  Nikolaus  Lenau 
zuwandte,  ist  aber  nicht  allein  seiner  Bedeutung  als  Dichter 
zuzuschreiben  :  die  Teilnahme  an  seinem  traurigen  Geschick — 
die  Umnachtung  seines  Geistes  im  Wahnsinn  und  die  an  man- 
chen  psychologischen  und  pathologischen  Problemen  reiche 
Entwickelungsgeschichte  seines  Geistes  bis  zu  dieser  Kata- 
strophe — hat  viel  dazu  beigetragen,  ein  weites  Interesse  fiir  ihn 
wach  zu  erhalten. 


^  I.  Dem  verdienstvollen  deutsch-amerikanischen  Dichter  und  Schriftsteller, 
Herrn  H.  A.  Rattermann  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  der  auf  eine  grossmiitige  und 
uneigenniitzige  Weise  mir  die  von  ihm  vor  Jahren  aufgezeichneten  Notizen 
iiber  Lenaus  Aufenthalt  auf  seinem  Lande  zustellte,  sowie  den  Herren  Theo- 
dore Poesche  in  Washington,  D.  C,  und  H.  Kleber  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  sei  hier- 
mit  der  herzHchste  Dank  ausgesprochen.  Nicht  minder  verdienen  Anerken- 
nung  die  Herren  Professoren  an  der  Universitat  von  Chicago,  Starr  W.  Cutting 
und  H.  Schmidt-Wartenberg,  die  mich  zu  dieser  Studie  anregten  und  aufmunter- 
ten,  und  besonders  Herr  Prof.  Camillo  von  Klenze,  der  durch  eingehendes 
Studium  der  Naturauffassung  Lenaus  manches  zur  Bereicherung  dieser  Studie 
beitrug. 

II.  Im  Zusammenhang  mit  der  Untersuchung  iiber  Lenaus  Aufenthalt  in 
Amerika  steht  die  Frage:  "  In  wiefern  Lenaus  Erlebnisse  in  Amerika  in  dem 
von  Ferdinand  Kiirnberger  verfassten  Roman,  Der  Amerikaniude,  geschildert 
vperden.  Die  Beantwortung  dieser  Frage,  sowie  der  Nachweis  der  Quellen,  aus 
denen  Kiirnberger  schopfte,  habe  ich  mir  fiir  eine  demnachst  zu  erscheineude 
Arbeit  vorbehalten. 

^  Schurz,  II,  p.  18. 


8  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

Als  ein  wichtiges  Moment  in  Lenaus  Entwickelungsgang 
muss  die  von  ihm  zwischen  September  1833  und  Juli  1834  ge- 
machte  Reise  nach  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nord-Amerika 
angesehen  werden.  Obgleicli  er  spater  nur  im  verstimmten 
Tone  von  dieser  Reise  zu  reden  pflegte,  legte  er  ihr,  wie  aus  den 
sich  darauf  beziehenden  Briefen  hervorgeht,  fiir  sein  inneres 
iind  ausseres  Leben  eine  besondere  Bedeutung  bei.  In  dem  auf 
seiner  Heimreise  von  Augsburg  aus  an  den  Schwager  Schurz  in 
Wien  gerichteten  Brief  ausserte  er  sich  folgendermassen  dariiber : 
"Meine  Reise  ist  nicht  umsonst  gethan.  Gewiss  die  pragnante- 
sten  Jahre  meines  Lebens  waren  die  zwei  letzten.  Vieles  habe 
ich  erreicht,  manches  eingesehen,  dass  es  nicht  zu  erreichen  ist 
u.  s.  w."  ^ 

Bisher  pflegten  die  Biographen  Lenaus,  teils  weil  ihnen 
ausser  den  Briefen  des  Dichters  kein  anderer  Maasstab  zu 
Gebote  stand,  womit  sie  das  vom  Dichter  in  dunklen  Farben 
entworfene  Bild  hatten  beurteilen  konnen,  teils  weil  iiberhaupt 
verhaltnissmassig  wenig  vom  Dichter  selbst  iiber  den  Aufent- 
halt  in  Amerika  mitgeteilt  wurde,  diesen  bedeutungsschweren 
Schritt  mit  wenigen  Worten  abzufertigen.  Das  gilt  schon 
von  den  im  Ubrigen  wahrheitsgetreuen  Lebe7isgeschichtliche7i 
UjJtrissen  Lenaus^  von  dessen  intimem  Freunde  Anastasius 
Griin  (Graf  Auersperg)  im  Jahre  1851,  bald  nach  des  Dichters 
Tode,  in  Verbindung  mit  der  Herausgabe  seines  dichterischen 
Nachlasses  veroffentlicht.  In  dieser  Skizze,  wie  auch  in  der 
spateren,  mit  den  sammtlichen  Werken  Lenaus  erschienenen 
(1854)^  erwahnt  Graf  Auersperg  manche  interessante  Einzel- 
heit  der  Reise ;  aber  diese  wird  als  ein  Gauzes  ausserst  ober- 
flachlich  und  gedankenlos  behandelt,  und  in  Bezug  auf  das 
Ergebniss  derselben  liebt  er  meist  nur  den  schadlichen  und 
nachteiligen  Einfluss  hervor. 

VoUends  unzuverlassig  ist  die  von  Emil  Klauprecht  im  sie- 


^  Lenaus  Leben,  Schurz  I,  p.  229. 

"^  Nikolaus  Lenau.  Lebensgeschichtliche  Uinrisse  in  der  Ansgabe  der  s'dmt- 
lichen  Werke  von  Anastasius  Gr'un  (Anton  Graf  von  Auersperg).  Stuttgart, 
1854. 


G.  A.  Muljinger,  9 

ben  ten  Jahrgang  (p.  348,  1875)  des  Deutschen  Pionier  (Cincin- 
nati, O.) '  verofFentlichte  Skizze  :  "  Nikolaus  Lenau^  als  Pionier 
Ohiosy  In  diesem  Aufsatze  folgt  Klauprecht  nur  in  einzelnen 
Punkten  Graf  Anerspergs  erster  Skizze  zu  Lenaus  dichterischem 
Nachlasse  ;  im  tjbrigen  schopft  er  reichleich  aus  dem  dunkel 
gefarbten  Roman,  Der  Amerikamude^  von  Ferdinand  Kiirnber- 
ger,  den  er  fiir  historisch  bait.  Herr  H.  A.  Rattermann,  der 
damals  den  Deutschen  Pionier  redigierte,  teilt  mir  mit,  dass  er 
zur  Zeit  das  kritiklose  Verfahren  Klauprechts  missbilligte,  aber 
aus  verschiedenen  Riicksichten  den  Aufsatz  doch  erscheinen 
lassen  musste. 

Die  umfangreiche  Biographic  Lenaus  von  dessen  Schwager 
Anton  Xavier  Schurz,^  aus  einer  Sammlung  von  des  Dichters 
Briefen  und  personlichen  Erinnerungen  des  Schwestermannes 
an  ihn  bestehend,  enthalt  auch  reichliches  Material  iiber  die 
"Amerikareise."  Schurz  empfand  jedoch,  dass  er  als  Freund 
und  Verwandter  dem  Dichter  zu  nahe  stand,  um  eine  richtige 
Perspektive  fiir  die  objektive  Darstellung  seines  Lebens  zu 
gewinnen ;  er  verfahrt  daher  in  seiner  Darstellung  melir  erzah- 
lend,  als  reflektirend.  In  Bezug  auf  die  Amerikareise  lasst  er 
des  Dichters  Briefe  fiir  sich  reden  und  iiberlasst  es  dem  Leser, 
sein  eigenes  Urteil  zu  bilden ;  nur  voriibergehend  erzahlt  er 
aussere  Begebenheiten,  die  in  den  Briefen  keinen  Raum  fanden. 
Wo  er  iiberhaupt  ein  Urteil  ausspricht,  ist  es  ganz  an  demjeni- 
gen  des  Dichters  gebildet. 

Die  vorziiglichen  Biographien  von  G.  Emil  Barthel  in  der 
Reclmn* schen  Ausgabe  und  von  Max  Koch  in  der  Kih'schner^ schen 
National  Litteratur  (154  St.  &  155  St.  Bd.)  haben  aus  dem  von 
Schurz  gesammelten  Material  und  andern  Quellen  ein  lebens- 
volles  Bild  Lenaus  entworfen  ;  in  der  Darstellung  der  ameri- 
kanischen  Periode  seines  Lebens  hatten  sie  jedoch  bedenken 


'  Der  Deutsche  Pionier.  Eine  Monatsschrift  fiir  Erinnerungen  aus  dem 
deutschen  Pionier-Leben  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten,  1-18.  Jahrg.  Cincinnati, 
1869-86, 

"^  Lenaus  Leben  von  seinem  Schwestermanne  Anton  X.  Schurz.  Zwei  Bande. 
Stuttgart  u.  Augsburg,  1855. 


lo  Lenau  in  Atnerika. 

soUen,  dass  das  von  Schurz  gemalte  Bild  rein  in  den  dunklen 
L^enau'schen  Farben  gehalten  ist,  und  dass  die  von  ihm  iiber 
Amerika  ausgesprochenen  Ansichten  oft  rein  subjektiv  und 
nnbereclitigt  sind. 

Es  ist  meine  Absicht  in  dieser  Studie  das  in  den  Biographien 
Lenaus  enthaltene  Kapitel  iiber  dessen  Amerikareise  durch 
neues,  auf  amerikanischem  Boden  gesammeltes  Material  zu 
erganzen  und  moglichst  zu  vervollstandigen,  und  unter  den 
daraus  sich  ergebenden  neuen  Gesichtspunkten  des  Dichters 
Auffassung  amerikanischer  Verhaltnisse  zu  erortern,  und  endlich 
noch  die  fordernde  und  nachteilige  Wirkung  auf  den  Dichter 
und  Mensclien  Lenau  nachzuweisen. 

Ehe  wir  jedoch  auf  die  Reise  des  Dichters  naher  eingehen, 
wollen  wir  zunachst  in  allgemeinen  Ziigen  die  Geistesrichtung 
Lenaus  charakterisieren,  und  namentlich  bei  der  Erorterung  der 
Griinde,  die  ihn  zur  Amerikareise  veranlassten,  die  Seelenverfass- 
uug,  in  welcher  er  sich  zu  jener  Zeit  befand,  naher  ins  Auge 
fassen,  damit  wir  einen  Hintergrund  gewinnen  mogen,  auf  dem 
sich  das  Bild  der  Amerikareise  klar  abhebt. 

CHARAKTERISTIK. 

Nikolaus  Lenau  gehort  unter  die  problematischen  Naturen, 
zu  deren  Verstandniss  man  nicht  leicht  gelangen  kann,  weil  sich 
die  Grenzen  zwischen  geistiger  Gesundheit  und  Krankheit  bei 
ihnen  nicht  leicht  ziehen  lassen.  In  jiingster  Zeit  hat  man  mit 
Recht  in  der  Darstellung  seiner  Entwickelungsgeschichte  dem 
pathologischen  Moment  mehr  als  je  Rechnung  getragen.' 
Lenau  brachte  die  Tendenz  zum  Wahnsinn  mit  auf  die  Welt 
und  zeigte  vom  Anfang  an  Eigentiimlichkeiten  im  Denken, 
Fiihlen  und  Handeln,  welche  ihn  der  Mehrzahl  der  Menschen, 
weil  sie  anders  empfinden  und  handeln,  mindestens  als  ein  Son- 
derling  erscheinen  liessen.  In  welchem  Masse  aber  die  endliche 
Katastrophe  durch  physische  Anlage  bedingt  war,  oder  durch 
aussere    Umstande   herbeigefiihrt   wurde,    wird    sich    nie    mit 


^  Vgl,  J.  Sadger.  'B>t\\3ig^  zMr  Munchener  allg.  Zeitung,  N.  207  und  209;  (1S95.) 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  ii 

Bestimmtheit   feststellen  lassen.     Ganz    berechtigt    ist   gewiss 
audi  das  Urtheil  Grillparzers,  der  Lenaii  nahe  stand  : 

"  Was  dich  zerbrach  hat  Staaten  schon  zerbrochen  ; 
Dich  hob,  dich  trug,  und  dich  verdarb  die  Zeit."  i 

Es  ist  in  der  That  nicht  zu  verwundern,  dass  ein  Genie,  wie 
Lenau,  mit  einem  angebornen  Hang  tiefer  Melancholic  einer 
Zeit  zum  Opfer  fiel,  welche  cine  langc  Reilie  von  geistig  weit 
gesiinderen  genialen  Menschen  teils  dem  Selbstmorde,  teils  dem 
Wahnsinn  in  die  Arme  fiihrte. 

Was  die  ersten  Dezennien  dieses  Jahrhunderts  charakterisiert, 
ist  die  Opposition  gegen  die  Verstandesanfklarung  des  acht- 
zehnten  Jahrhunderts.  Sic  bestand  wesentlich  in  einer  gewalti- 
gen  Entfesslung  der  Phantasie,  die,  langc  vom  Verstande  zuriick- 
gedrangt,  nicht  zur  Geltung  kommen  konnte.  Vom  Anfang  der 
Sturm  und  Drang  Periode  bis  tief  in  dieses  Jahrhundert  hinein 
empfanden  alle  genialen  Geister  ein  en  schreienden  Gegensatz 
zwischen  ihren  poetischen  Idealen  und  der  der  Poesie  abgewand- 
ten  prosaischen  Wirklichkeit,  und  das  Problem,  welche  Stell- 
ung  man  zur  realen  Wirklichkeit  einnehmen  solle,  drangte  sich 
jedem  Dichter  auf.  Schiller,  nachdem  er  in  der  Jugend  viel 
an  dilsteren  Stimmungen,  die  aus  dem  Zwiespalt  zwischen 
Ideal  und  Wirklichkeit  erwuchsen,  gelitten  hatte,  loste  in  spa- 
teren  Jahren  die  schwierige  Frage  dahin,  dass  er  die  innere  und 
aussere  Welt  als  zwei  unversohnbare  Machte  streng  geschieden 
neben  einander  bestehen  liess.^ 

Eine  ganz  andere  Stellung  zu  diesem  Problem  nahm  die  an 
der  Ubermacht  der  Phantasie  leidende  Zeit  um  die  Wende  des 
letzten  Jahrhunderts.  Die  Romantik  versuchte  es  zu  losen, 
indem  sie  das  wirkliche  lycben  durch  die  Phantasie  umgestalten 
und  aus  ihr  hervor  gehen  lassen  wollte.  Das  tjbertragen  der 
Phantasiegebilde  in  die  aussere  Welt  fiihrte  aber  zu  einer  Ver- 
kennung  der  Wirklichkeit  und  zu  einem  Zusammenstoss  mit 
ihr  und  endigte  in  einer  Flucht  vor  der  Wirklichkeit  in  das 

>  Vgl.  Grillparzers  Gedicht  An  Nikolaus  Lettau  :  Samtl.  Werke  I,  no. 
^  Brief  an  Herder,  4.  Nov.  1795. 


12  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

Reich  der  Traume,  oder  zu  einem  Versenken  des  Traumers  in 
sich  selbst. 

Lenau  wurzelt  in  der  Romantik,  und  ihre  charakteristischen 
Merkmale  sind  bei  ihm  schon  in  seiner  Jugend  stark  ausge- 
pragt.  Bei  der  sparlichen  Angabe  der  Lectiire  in  den  Jugend- 
briefen  kann  man  allerdings  nicht  feststellen,  inwiefern  er  sich 
mit  der  litterarischen  Romantik  beschaftigte ;  eine  eingehende 
Kenntniss  der  Schriften  von  Holty,  Biirger,  Novalis,  George 
Sand  und  Viktor  Hugo  setzten  die  spateren  voraus.  Gorres  und 
die  Philosophen  der  Romantik,  Bader  und  Schelling,  hielt  er  fiir 
die  tiefsinnigsten  Manner  der  Zeit.^  Der  Einfluss  der  schwa- 
bischen  Romantiker  auf  ihn,  von  denen  er  sich  durch  natiirliche 
Wahlverwandtschaft  angezogen  fiihlte,  darf  auch  nicht  gering 
angeschlagen  werden.  Im  Reinbeck'schen  Hans  zu  Stuttgart, 
wo  Matthison,  Tieck,  Jean  Paul  und  Riickert  verkehrten,  und 
die  romantischen  Traditionen  heilig  gehalten  wurden,  fand  Lenau 
seine  zweite  Heimat.  Einen  sehr  grossen  Einfluss  auf  ihn  iibte 
aber  auch  Lord  Byron,  dessen  Poesie  der  Zerrissenheit  und  des 
Weltschmerzes  damals  in  deutschen  Landen  viele  Nachahmer 
fand.  Bei  Lenaus  natiirlichem  Hang  zur  Schwermut  zog  der 
leidenschaftliche  Pessimismus  des  grossen  Briten  ihn  mit 
unwiderstehlicher  Gewalt  an. 

DIE   VERANLASSUNG  ZUR   REISE. 

Fassen  wir  nun  naher  ins  Auge,  wie  der  Plan  einer  Amerika- 
fahrt  aus  dem  dunklen  Hintergrunde  hervortritt,  und  welche 
Motive  und  Anlasse  es  waren,  die  den  Plan  zu  einem  festen 
Entschlusse  reifen  liessen. 

Wohl  mehr  auf  das  Drangen  seiner  Freunde,  als  aus  eigner 
Neigung,  war  Lenau  im  Herbst  1832  nach  Heidelberg  gegan- 
gen,  um  seine  Studien  zu  beenden.^  Ohne  den  aufmunternden 
Einfluss  seiner  Freunde  verfiel  er  bald  in  triibe  Griibeleien  und 
diistere  Stimmungen,  welche  ihm  als  die  Vorboten  einer  heran- 


^  Siehe  Lenau  und  Sophie  Lozuenthal,  p.  115.     Tagebuch  und  Briefe  des  Dich- 
ters  berausgegeben  von  L.  A.  Frankl.     Stuttgart  (Cotta),  iSgr. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  loS. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  13 

nahenden  Gemiitskrankheit  erschienen.  In  der  diisteren  Ein- 
samkeit,  welcher  er  sich  in  dieser  Zeit  iiberliess,  fand  er  die  ein- 
zige  Brleichterung  im  Briefwechsel  mit  den  kurz  vorher  gewon- 
nenen  Dichterfreunden  Justinus  Kerner  in  Weinsberg  und 
Karl  Mayer  in  Waiblingen ;  ^  darin  offenbarte  er  ohne  Zu- 
riickhaltung  seinen  inneren  Zustand  und  die  schrecklichen 
Befiirchtungen,  die  ihn  qualten.  So  schon  unter  dem  15.  Nov. 
1 83 1  an  Kerner:  "O  Kerner,  Kerner,  ich  bin  kein  Asket,  aber 
ich  mochte  gerne  im  Grabe  liegen.  Helfen  Sie  mir  von  dieser 
Schwermut,  die  sich  nicht  wegscherzen,  wegpredigen,  nicht 
wegfluchen  lasst.  Mir  wird  oft  so  schwer,  als  ob  ich  einen 
Todten  in  mir  herumtriige.  Helfen  Sie  mir,  mein  Freund. 
Die  Seele  hat  auch  ihre  Sehnen,  die  einmal  zerschnitten,  nie 
wieder  gut  werden.  Mir  ist  als  ware  etwas  in  mir  zerrissen, 
zerschnitten.     Hilf  Kerner !  "  ^ 

Kerner  kam  auch  sogleich  dieser  Aufforderung  des  Freundes 
nach,  indem  er  ihm  riet,  seine  Reiseschatten  durchzulesen, 
die  aus  einem  ahnlich  tiefen  Schmerz  hervorgegangen  waren 
und  zu  einer  Zeit,  als  er  denselben  Glauben  hatte  wie  Lenau — 
einen  Glauben,  der  ihm  jetzt  schwarzer  vorkam  als  der  schwar- 
zeste  Gespensterglauben.^  Aber  Kerner  erwiess  sich  als  ein 
leidiger  Troster,  wie  aus  dem  im  nachsten  Monat  (i,  Dec.)  an 
Mayer  gerichteten  Brief  hervorgeht.  Darin  heisst  es  :  "  Meine 
Seelenverstimmung  wird  von  Tag  zu  Tag  arger,  beginnt  nun 
auch  ziemlich  merklich  auf  meinen  Korper  zu  reagieren  ;  ich 
fiihle  meine  Krafte  schwinden ;  mochte  es  doch  damit  so  fort- 
gehen ! "  *  Er  vertiefte  sich  in  Spinoza,  wie  Goethe  in  der 
Wertherstimmung  es  zu  thun  pflegte,  aber  dies  erwiess  sich  nur 
als  Palliativmittel ;  denn  er  fahrt  mit  den  Worten  fort :  "  Aber 
ich  mag  nun  wandern  im  Gebiet  der  Philosophic  oder  der  Poesie, 
so  stobert  und  schnuppert  mein  Scharfsinn  vor  mir  herum,  ein 

^  Brief  an  Schurz,  Schurz  I,  p.  124  ;  cf.  Briefe  an  Mayer  und  Kerner,  Schurz  I, 
pp.  131,  133,  136,  139,  143,  145,  147,  149,  151. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  132. 
'  Schurz  I,  p.  133. 
*  Schurz  I,  p.  134. 


14  Lcnau  in  Avierika. 

imgliicklicher  Spiirliund,  iind  jagt  mir  richtig  immer  das 
melancholische  Sumpfgefliigel  der  Welt  aus  seinem  Verstecke.'" 

Aus  dieser  triiben  Stimmung  vermochten  ihn  auch  seine 
medizinischen  Studien,  die  er  leider  mehr  als  Liebhaberei,  denn 
als  regelmassiges  Stiidium  trieb,  nicht  zii  reissen.^  Er  vernacli- 
lassigte  sie  denn  auch  bald  ganz  und  reiste  zwischen  Heidelberg, 
Stuttgart,  Tiibingen,  Waiblingen  und  Weinsberg.  Als  er  die 
Weilmachtsfeiertage  des  Jahres  1831  bei  Karl  Mayer  in  Waib- 
lingen, Uhland  in  Tiibingen  und  Gustav  Schwab  in  Stuttgart 
zubrachte,^  wurde  der  Plan  nach  Amerika  auszuwandern  wahr- 
scheinlich  mit  ihnen  besprochen ;  wenigstens  diirfte  man  das 
aus  der  Bemerkung  dariiber  in  Klemms  Brief  an  Lenau  vom 
6.  Januar  1832  schliessen  ;  denn  dieser  besuchte  anfangs  Januar 
die  Familie  Schwab  in  Stuttgart,  bei  welcher  Gelegenheit  von 
Lenaus  Planen  die  Rede  gewesen  sein  muss.*  Wahrend  der 
Ferien  erreichte  die  Trauer  und  Verzweiflung  ihren  Hohe- 
punkt  f  auch  Symptome  der  Geisteskrankheit,  wie  qualende 
Traume  ^  und  Illusionen,  dauerten  im  Januar  fort. 

Endlich  am  21.  Januar  rafft  sich  Lenau  zusammen  und  fiihlt 
in  sich  die  moralische  Kraft  zu  handeln.''  Er  meint  im  Sta- 
dium der  Reconvalescenz  zu  sein,  obwohl  Gemiitskrankheiten 
sich  nicht  plotzlich  abschneiden  liessen,  und  noch  kleine  Riick- 
falle  vorkamen.  Unter  obigem  Datum  schreibt  er  an  Mayer : 
"Ja,  Freund !  ich  will  leben,  arbeiten,  handeln  ;  doch  ich  ent- 
scheide,  fiir  wen  und  wozu.  Du  hast  mich  so  ganz  wieder  her- 
gestellt  in  meine  Kraft,  dass  ich  mit  kiihnen  Entwiirfen  umgehe. 
Ich  will  noch  was  Tiichtiges  leisten  in  der  Kunst ;  ich  will 
arbeiten  fiir  die  Welt,  und  mich  veredeln  fiir  meine  Freunde."  ** 
Die  kiihnen  Entwiirfe  aber,  womit  Lenau  zu  dieser  Zeit  umging. 


^  Schurz  I,  p.  134. 

''■  Schurz  I,  p.  134. 

^  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  p.  141. 

*  Brief  von  Klemm  an  Niembsch,  Schurz  I,  p.  138. 

^  Vgl.  Brief  an  Schwab  mit  Brief  an  Sophie  Schwab,  Schurz  I,  pp.  143  und  149. 

*'  Brief  an  Mayer,  Schurz  I,  p.  145. 

■^  Brief  an  Mayer,  Schurz  I,  p.  148. 

•*  Brief  an  Mayer,  Schurz  I,  p.  148. 


G.  A.  Mtiljinger.  15 

gipfelten  in  dem  zum  festen  Entschluss  gediehenen  Plan,  die 
neue  Welt  zu  besuchen. 

Instinktiv  fiihlte  er,  dass  ein  nach  Aussen  hingewandtes 
Leben  ihn  vor  der  ewigen  Selbstbespiegelung  iind  Selbstzer- 
faserung  bewahren  konne,  und  es  zog  ihn  nacli  dem  Land  der 
Thatigkeit  und  Arbeit.  In  der  sich  auf  die  Amerikareise  im 
Faust  beziehenden  Scene  wird  diese  Veranlassung  zur  Atlantis- 
fahrt  angegeben  wie  folgt : 

MEPHISTOPHELES. 

Dies  Riickwartsdenken,  Vorwartsgriibeln 
Muss  ich  als  Freund  dir  sehr  veriibeln. 

Darauf  antwortet  Lenau — Faust : 

Wenn  nicht  das  bose  Griibeln  ware, 

So  stiind  ich  jetzo  nicht  mit  dir  am  Meere, 

{Faust,  Die  Reise).^ 

Bin  anderes  Moment,  das  viel  zur  gefahrlichen  Krise  im 
Gemiitsleben  des  Dichters  beitrug  und  den  Entschluss,  nach 
Amerika  auszuwandern,  reifen  half,  war  die  Sorge  um  seine 
Existenz.  Sclion  in  der  Jugend  verliess  er  sich  auf  eine  Erb- 
schaft  von  den  Grosseltern  und  coquettierte  mit  einer  Wissen- 
schaft  nach  der  andern,  ohne  sich  in  ihrer  einer  in  den  vorge- 
streckten  Bahnen  zu  bewegen,  wie  Jemand,  der  ein  praktisches 
Ziel  verfolgt.^  Da  die  Grossmutter  kein  giiltiges  Testament 
hinterliess,  wurde  das  hinterlassene  Vermogen  von  30,000 
Silbergulden  zu  gleichen  Teilen  den  drei  Enkelkindern  zuge- 
sprochen.^  Nach  Empfang  seines  Erbteils  sprang  er  auch  von 
der  Medizin  ab  *  und  begab  sich  nach  Stuttgart,  um  seine  Ge- 
dichte  zu  veroffentlichen.  Das  Ideal  des  nur  durch  unabhangi- 
gen  Reichtum  bedingten  Miissigganges,  wie  er  iiberhaupt  den 
Romantikern  eigen  war,  schwebte  ihm  vor.     Er  sagte  einmal 


^  Reclam'sche  Ausgabe  p.  431. 
-  Schurz  I,  pp.  84,  100,  106,  107. 
'•'•  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  pp.  106  und  107. 
*  Schurz  I,  p.  106. 


1 6  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

seiner  Schwester,  er  verdiene  in  Sammt  und  Seide  einherzu- 
gehen/  Als  Dichter  und  Edelmann  glaubte  er  auf  der  Hohe 
der  Menschheit  stehen  zu  sollen.^  Kurzum,  er  wollte  reich 
werden.  Vor  der  Abreise  nach  Stuttgart  Hess  er  sich  auch  in 
der  That  von  Borsenspekulanten  unter  seinen  Bekannten  ver- 
leiten,  sein  Gliick  zu  versuchen :  das  Ergebniss  war,  dass  er  die 
Halfte  seines  Vermogens  in  einer  Borsenspekulation  verlor,  und 
das  Ubriggelassene  war  bei  weitem  nicht  gross  genug,  ihm  in 
Europa  eine  bequeme  Existenz  zu  sicliern.^  Damals  trat 
schon  die  Idee  aus  dem  Hintergrund  hervor,  das  iibrige  Kapital 
in  Landereien  in  Amerika  anzulegen,  deren  Walder  sich  in 
reichliche  Gelder  verwandeln  soUten.* 

Durch  dieses  Missgeschick  wurde  die  Erfiillung  seines  Wun- 
sches,  Weib  und  Kind^  zu  besitzen,  in  unbestimmte  Feme 
geriickt.  Hochst  schmerzlich  kam  ihm  seine  aussere  Lage 
zum  Bewusstsein,  als  sich  ein  Liebesverhaltniss  zwischen  ihm 
und  einem  anmutigen  Schwabenmadchen,  Lotte  Gmelen,  an 
welche  die  Schilflieder  gerichtet  sind,  entspann.  So  heiss 
wie  er  dieses  Madchen  auch  liebte,  war  er  doch  von  vornherein 
entschlossen  ihr  zu  entsagen.®  "  Ich  fiihle  so  wenig  Gliick  in 
mir,"  schreibt  er  an  Schurz  den  8.  Nov.  1831,  "dass  ich  andem 
keines  abgeben  kann."  "  Ich  habe  nicht  den  Mut,"  schreibt  er 
auch  an  Klemm  den  17.  Februar  1832,  "  diese  himmlische  Rose  an 
mein  nachtliches  Herz  zu  heften."  '^  Auch  fiihlte  er,  dass  seine 
lyage  zu  beschrankt  und  ungewiss  sei.*  Diese  aussichtslose  Liebe 
dauerte  bis  zur  Abreise  nach  Amerika  fort  und  trug  viel  zur 
Verdiisterung  seines  Geistes  bei.  Sie  spornte  ihn  aber  auch  an, 
in  Amerika  eine  bessere  Existenz  zu  suchen.  Kurz  vor  der 
Abreise  im  Mai  schliesst  er  den  Brief  an  Mayer,  worin  er  die 


^  Schurz  I,  p.  202. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  114. 

*  Daselbst  I,  p.  114. 

*  Daselbst  I,  p.  114. 

*  Schurz  I,  pp.  118  und  229  ;  Gedicht  "  Der  Pechvogel  "  Reclam,  p.  234. 

*  Schurz  I,  p.  128. 

'  Brief  an  Klemm,  Schurz  I,  p.  155. 

*  Schurz  I,  p.  128. 


G.  A.  Mulfijtger.  17 

Ansicht  aiisdriickt,  dass  ihn  eine  Art  Gravitation  nach  dem 
Ungliick  regiere,  mit  den  hoffnungsvollen  Worten : 

"  Frennd,  ich  Hebe  das  Madchen  (Lotte)  unaussprechlich  ; 
Dir  aber  sag  ich  ganz  leise :  mir  scheint,  es  hat  sich  ein  anderer 
Geist,  als  der  Damon  des  Ungliicks,  in  mein  Herz  begeben  und 
treibt  mich  nach  Amerika.  Ich  will  mir  dort  eine  bessere 
Existenz  schafien."  ^ 

Trotz  all  den  Regungen,  die  in  dieser  Zeit  ihm  das  Gemiits- 
leben  triibten,  blieb  ihm  doch  ein  lichter  Punkt,  der  in  der  nn- 
gewissen  Zukunft  sein  Leitstern  zu  sein  versprach  :  es  war  der 
Gotterfunke  der  Poesie,  den  die  Musen  in  ihm  entziindet  hatten. 
Zum  Bewusstsein  seiner  Dichterbestimmung  kam  er  voU  und 
ganz  durch  die  lebhafte  Teilnahme  und  feurige  Ermunterung, 
die  ihm  von  den  schwabischen  Romantikern,  Uhland,  Mayer, 
Schwab  und  Justinus  Kerner,  zu  Teil  wurde,^  und  durch  die 
giinstigen  Bedingungen,  unter  denen  Cotta  die  erste  Gedichts- 
sammlung  annahm.^  Nach  den  freudigen  Erlebnissen  in 
Stuttgart  schreibt  er  an  Schurz  iiber  sein  Verhaltniss  zur  Poesie  : 
"  Die  Poesie  bleibt  nicht  deine  liebste  F'reundin  ?  frasfst  Du  viel- 
leicht.  Nein,  ich  kann  sie  keine  Freundin  nennen  ;  ich  glaube, 
die  Poesie  bin  ich  selber  ;  mein  selbstestes  Selbst  ist  die  Poesie."  * 
Wie  aus  dem  Brief  an  Mayer  beziiglich  der  Amerikareise  erhellt, 
fasste  er  in  der  That  seinen  Kiinstlerberuf  ernst  auf.  "  Kiinst- 
lerische  Ausbildung,"  bemerkte  er,  "  ist  mein  hochster  Lebens- 
zweck ;  alle  Krafte  meines  Geistes,  meines  Gemiites,  betracht 
ich  als  Mittel  dazu.  Erinnerst  Du  Dich  des  Gedichtes  an 
Chamisso,  wo  der  Maler  einen  Jiingling  an  das  Kreuz  nagelt, 
um  ein  Bild  vom  Todeschmerze  zu  haben  ?  Ich  will  mich 
selber  ans  Kreuz  schlagen,  wenn's  nur  ein  gutes  Gedicht  gibt. 
Und  wer  nicht  alles  andere  gerne  in  die  Schanze  schlagt,  der 
Kunst  zu  liebe,  der  meint  es  nicht  aufrichtig  mit  ihr."  * 

^  Schurz  I,  p.  172. 

"^  Brief  an  Schurz,  Schurz  I,  pp.  124  und  125. 

^  Schurz  I,  p.  125. 

*  Brief  an  Schurz,  Schurz  I,  p.  126, 

^  Brief  an  Mayer,  Schurz  I,  pp.  158  und  159. 


1 8  Lcnaii  in  Amerika. 

Sclion  im  Herbst,  elie  er  sich  mit  der  Auswandeningsidee 
beschaftigte,  fiihlte  er,  dass  eine  langere  Waiiderschaft  zu  seiner 
Ausbildung  notig  sei.  Dariiber  schreibt  er  an  Schurz :  "  Was  icli 
nach  Beendigung  meines  Cursus  thiin  werde,  wissen  die  Gotter. 
Vielleiclit  findet  sich  dann  eine  Aussicht,  als  Choleraarzt  nach 
Frankreich  oder  England  zu  reisen.  Ich  wiirde  so  etwas  anneh- 
men,  um  recht  in  der  Welt  herumzufahren.  Die  Betrachtung 
des  Menschenlebens  in  seinen  mannigfachen  Erscheinungen  ist 
mir  der  grosste  Reiz,  nach  dem  Reize,  den  die  Natur  fiir  mich 
hat." 

Wenn  man  bedenkt,  wie  sehr  Lenau  von  romantischen 
Idealen  beherrscht  wurde,  so  wird  man  die  Ansicht,  dass  dem 
Kiinstler  eine  Weltwanderschaft  not  thue,  ganz  in  der  Ordnung 
finden.  Seit  der  Englander,  Lorenz  Stern,  in  der  Empfind- 
santen  Reise  ein  Vorbild  gegeben  hatte,  wie  man  seine  Sub- 
jektivitat  an  aussere  Gegenstande  hangen  konne,  war  audi  in 
Deutschland  das  Wandern  im  Dienste  der  Kunst  in  die  Mode 
gekommen.  Matthison,  Tieck,  Wilhelm  Miiller  und  Andere 
beschrieben  ihre  Reisen  nach  Italien  und  der  Schweiz.^  Aber 
vor  alien  verstand  Heine  durch  diese  Gattung  des  Reise- 
berichtes  auf  die  Phantasie  jener  romantischen  Zeit  einzuwirken; 
in  den  Reisebildern  1 826-1831,  worin  Traum  mid  Wirklichkeit 
mit  einander  vermischt,  und  durch  alle  Bilder  ein  schwarzer 
Faden  der  Melancholie  sich  schlangelt,  erzielte  Heine  einen 
fabelhaften  Erfolg  und  iiberwand  alle  Nebenbuhler.^  Bedeu- 
tender  war  aber  noch  Lord  Byrons  Einfluss  auf  Lenau,  der 
einige  15  Jahre  friiher  in  Childe  Harolds  Wander jahre7i  die 
ganze  Beobachtung  und  Gestaltungskraft  seines  Genies  ent- 
faltete.^  Die  romantische  Frische,  mit  welcher  er  die  in 
Spanien,  Italien  und  Griechenland  empfangenen  Eindriicke 
darstellte,  spornte  sogleich  in  Deutschland  eine  Anzahl  empor- 


1  Brief  an  Schurz  I,  p.  126. 

■^  Scherers  Geschichte  der  Deutschen  Litteratur,  pp.  663  und  664. 

*  Daselbst. 

*  Vgl.  iiber  den  Einfluss  Byrons  auf  Ivenau,  Zur  Biographie  Lenaus  von  Iv. 
A.  Frankl.     Wien,  1854,  pp.  3,  4. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  19 

strebender  Talente  ziim  Nachahmen  an.  Nicht  ohne  Einfluss  aiif 
Lenau  blieben  wohl  auch  Kerners  originelle  Reiseschatten^ 
und  Adalbert  von  Chamissos  exotische  Gedichte,  besonders 
Salas  y  Gomes^  die  er  angeblich  als  Fnicht  seiner  Weltreise 
mitbrachte.^  Im  Ausland  batten  Coleridge  und  Southey  im 
Jahre  1795  eine  englische  Auswanderungsgesellschaft  gebildet 
und  richteten  ihre  Blicke  nacli  Amerika,  wo  sie  eine  pantiso- 
kratische  Kommiine  am  Susquehanna,  dessen  Name  den  jugend- 
lichen  Schwarmern  sehr  lieblich  klang,  griinden  woUten.'^ 
Etliche  Jahre  vor  ihnen  (1791)  hatte  Chateaubriand,  der  Vater 
der  franzosischen  Romantik,  das  Meer  mit  dem  abenteuerlichen 
Plan  durchkreuzt,  iiber  Nord  Amerika  den  Nord  Pol  zu  finden; 
aber  er  entdeckte  statt  des  Nord-pols  seinen  Dichterberuf  unter 
den  Rothauten  am  Ohio  und  Mississippi  und  schuf  in  Atala 
imd  Rene  hochst  romantische  Bilder  der  Wilden  in  ihrem 
Naturleben. 

In  Deutschland  blieb  das  transatlantische  Wunderland  der 
romantischen  Phantasie  des  Zeitalters  merkwiirdigerweise  bis 
Anfang  der  dreissiger  Jahre  verschlossen ;  dann  aber  floss  der 
Strom  romantischer  Abenteurer,  die  in  den  Urwaldern  der  neuen 
Welt  ihre  Ideale  verwirklichen  wollten  und  poetische  und 
materielle  Schatze  zu  heben  hofften,  um  so  gewaltiger  und 
rascher.  Es  war  dem  Bonner  Arzt,  Gottfried  Duden,  vorbe- 
halten  in  Briefen  iiber  die  westl.  Staaten  Nordamerikas  *  die 
Phantasie  seiner  Zeitgenossen  zu  entziinden  und  dadurch  in  der 
Geschichte  der  deutschen  Auswanderung  nach  Amerika  Epoche 
zu  machen.  Der  ausserordentliche  Erfolg  des  Duden'schen 
Werkes,  das  in  verschiedenen  Auflagen  und  Abdriicken  erschien 
und  in  weiten  Kreisen  gelesen  wurde,  muss  in  erster  Linie  dem 
ehrbaren  Charakter  des  Verfassers  zugfeschrieben  werden.     Die 


'  Schurz  I,  p.  133. 

'•'  Cf.  Max  Kochs  Biographic  Lenaus  in  Kurschners  National  Litteratur,  p.  21. 

■*  G.  Brandes,  Hatiptstrbmungender Litteraturdes  Neunzehntenjahrhunderts 
(Berlin,  1876),  vierter  Band,  p.  20. 

*  Bericht  'iiber  eine  Reise  nach  den  westl.  Staaten  Nordamerikas  von  Gott- 
fried Duden  (Boun.,  1829). 


30  Lefimi  in  Atnerika. 

giinstigen  Aiissichten,  welche  darin  dem  Europamuden  in  der 
neuen  Welt  erofifnet  wurden,  konnten  kaiim  in  Frage  gezogen 
werden,  zumal  Dudens  Unbescholtenheit  als  Gelehrter  und 
Beamter  des  preussischen  Staates  allgemein  bekannt  war.^ 
Weiter  triig  die  vergleichende  Methode  der  Reisebeschreibung, 
nach  Alexander  von  Humboldts  Vorbild,  viel  zum  erstaunlichen 
Erfolge  bei.  Im  scharfen  Kontraste  stellte  Duden  die  damals 
misslichen  okonomischen,  staatlichen  und  gesellschaftliclien 
Verhaltnisse  Deutschlands  denen  der  emporbliihenden  nord- 
amerikanischen  Republik  gegeniiber  und  malte  in  entziicken- 
den  Naturbildern  ^  das  Leben  der  neuen  Ansiedler  in  Urwaldern 
des  westliclien  Amerikas,  namentlicli  Missouris  aus.  Um  zu 
zeigen,  wie  iibertrieben  diese  Bilder  oft  ausfielen,  dafiir  sei  nur 
ein  Beispiel  angefiihrt,  das  auch  zugleich  zum  Verstandniss  von 
Lenaus  Auffassung  der  Natur  in  Amerika  vor  seiner  Abreise 
dienen  moge.  Eine  Wanderung  iiber  die  Alleglianies  bei  Mond- 
licht  wird  wie  folgt  beschrieben :  "  Am  Fusse  der  Berge  em- 
pfingen  uns  die  Walder,  und  liier  waren  wir  denn  alsbald  von 
Myriaden  fliegender  Leuchtkafer  umglanzt,  die  das  Licht  des 
nachtlichen  Himmels  ganz  entbehrlich  machten.  Zugleich 
verursachte  eine  Art  Zikaden  (Locust)  ein  solches  Geschwirr, 
dass  wir  iiber  eine  voile  Stunde  nur  mit  starker  erhohter  Stimme 
zu  einander  reden  konnten.  Von  Zeit  zu  Zeit  wurde  das  allge- 
meine  Gerausch  durch  das  Gelieul  von  Pantern,  Wolfen  und 
Fiichsen  und  das  Geschrei  vielerlei  Nachtvogel  iibertont.  Zu 
diesen  Eindriicken  kamen  die  wechselnden  Ansichten  auf  die 
vor  und  neben  uns  liegenden  Tiefen,  welche  das  Licht  des 
Mondes  und  der  Sterne  in  den  manigfaltigsten  Schatten  zuriick 
gaben."  ^ 

Ein  Bericht,  der  in  solchen  rosigen   Farben   "der  Freiheit 


^  Vgl.  Das  Deutsche  Elemcfit  in  deft  Vereinigten  Staaten  1818-1S48.  Von 
Gustav  Korner  (Cincinnati,  1880),  p.  299.  Siehe  auch  Deutscher  Plonier 
6.  Jhrg.,  p.  391  (Cincinnati,  O.,  1874). 

^  Vgl.  Duden,  Bericht  'iiber  eine  Reise  nach  den  westl.  Staaten  von  Nord- 
amerika,  pp.  no,  in  und  112.     Siehe  auch  Deutscher  Pio?iier  6.  Jhrg.,  p.  391. 

^  Duden's  Bericht,  p.  31. 


G.  A.  Mtilfiiigcr.  21 

Paradiese,"  urn  Lenaus  Aiisdruck  zu  gebrauchen,  ansmalte,  wo 
es  keine  Fiirsten  noch  Beamtenwesen  gabe,  berauschte  um  so 
leichter  die  Phaiitasie  jener  Generation,  da  ihre  Hoffnungen  auf 
die  Wiedergeburt  des  Vaterlandes  nach  den  Befreiungskriegen 
gesclieitert  waren,  und  sie  jetzt  wieder  unter  dem  Druck  der 
Kriegsschulden  und  Willkiir  der  Fiirsten  seufzte,  zumal  Duden 
ihr  einen  leichten  Ausweg  aus  der  Not  bot,  ohne  sick  wider  die 
angestammte  Regierungsform  aufzulehnen/  Als  auch  die  Juni- 
revolution  im  Jahre  1831  fehlschlug,  und  mit  ihr  die  Hoff- 
nunof  auf  eine  bessere  Zeit  und  einen  freien  Staat  mehr  und 
mehr  entschwand,  blickten  namentlich  die  Gebildeten  auf  ein 
Land,  wo  ihre  Traume  zur  Verwirklichung  gelangen  konnten. 
In  einer  solchen  Zeit  war  es  nicht  auflfallend,  dass  man  mit 
grosser  Begier  die  Reiseberichte  von  Duden  verschlang.  Aus 
alien  Standen  schloss  man  sich  den  Auswanderungsgesell- 
schaften  an,  die  nach  dem  Erscheinen  des  Duden'schen  Berich- 
tes  wie  Pilze  aus  der  Erde  schossen.  Die  Zahl  der  Auswanderer 
nach  Nord  Amerika,  die  in  den  Jahren  1820-30  nur  etwa 
15,000  betrug,  stieg  in  den  Jahren  von  1831-40  auf  fast  150,000.^ 
Besonders  wurden  die  Burschenschaften  der  Universitaten,  von 
denen  die  Freiheitsbewegung  ausgegangen  war,  Pflanzschulen 
der  Duden'schen  Ideen.^  In  Giessen  bildete  sich  eine  der  best 
organisierten  Gesellschaften,  die  wohl  je  in  Deutschland  ent- 
standen  waren  ;  zu  ihren  Mitgliedern  gehorten  Friedrich  Miinch 
und  Paul  Follenius,  die  spater  in  Amerika  und  Deutschland 
durch  ihre  Schriften  beriihmt  wurden.  Man  ging  mit  der  Ab- 
sicht  um,  ein  neues  Deutschtum  im  Westen  der  Union  zu  griin- 
den,  und  in  Montgomery,  jetzt  Warren  County,  wo  Duden  sich 
aufgehalten  hatte,  sollte  diese  Idee  zur  Ausfiihrung  gebracht 
werden.*  Auch  in  Heidelberg^  entschlossen  sich  manche 
Studenten   zur   Auswanderung,    die    nachher   in    Amerika   als 


^  Vgl.  Deutscher  Pionier,  p.  6.  Jhrg.  (1874),  p.  391. 

^  Vgl.  G.  Korner,  Das  deutsche  Element  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten,  p.  432. 

^  Daselbst,  p.  264  f. 

*  Daselbst,  p.  300  f. 

^  Daselbst,  p.  245  f. 


22  Lenaii  in  Amerika. 

Vertreter  deutscher  Wissenschaft  und  deutschen  Lebens  sich  aus- 
gezeichnet  haben,  wonmter  vor  Allem  Giistav  Konier,  der  Ver- 
fasser  von  Das  deiitscJic  Element  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten^ 
Erwalmung  verdient/  Iin  Winter  1832  machte  Korner,  wie 
er  mir  selbst  mitteilt,  Lenans  Bekanntschaft  in  Heidelberg  bei 
einem  Kommers  der  Burschenschaft,  welcher  er  angehorte ; 
Korner  wanderte  aber  erst  im  folgenden  Jahre  nach  Amerika 
aus. 

In  dieser  Atmospahre  weilte  wohl  Lenan  auch  nicht  lange, 
ehe  er  von  den  wanderlustigen  Burschen  in  die  Mysterien  der 
Duden'schen  Schriften  eingefiihrt  wurde  ;  wahrscheinlich  war  es 
schon  lange  vor  den  Weihnachtsferien.  Der  Missoiiristaat  nnd 
der  Niagara  sollten,  wie  er  Schurz  im  Brief e  mitteilt,  worin  er 
seinen  Entschluss  auszuwandern  aussert  und  direkt  auf  Dudens 
Schriften  hinweist,  auch  das  Ziel  seiner  Wanderschaft  sein.-  Ver- 
ofebens  suchten  die  Freunde  in  Schwaben  die  Amerikaidee  zu 
hintertreiben.  Justinns  Kerner  glaubte  wirklich  den  Amerika- 
damon  in  ihm  beschwichtigt  zu  haben,  als  Lenau  bei  ihm  war ; 
"  allein,"  fiigt  er  hinzu,  "  in  Heidelberg  wieder  vierzehn  Tage 
sich  selber  iiberlassen,  kehrte  in  ihm  der  alte  Damon  wieder, 
der  wilde  Thiere  schiessen  und  Urbaume  niederreissen  will."  ^ 
Es  ist  aber  keineswegs  iiberraschend,  dass  der  Duden'sche  Bericht 
die  amerikanische  Idee  in  ihm  mit  solcher  damonischen  Gewalt 
befestigte  ;  denn  darin  fand  er  endlich  eine  Panacee  fiir  alle 
geistlichen  und  leiblichen  Leiden,  und  aus  den  gewaltigen  Natur- 
eindriicken  hoffte  er  noch  nie  Dagewesenes  fiir  die  Poesie  auszu- 
beuten  (Schurz  I,  158).  Man  vergleiche  nur  den  Brief  an  Schurz 
beziiglich  der  Amerikareise  (Schurz  I,  161  ff.),  um  zu  sehen,  wie 
die  Duden'schen  Ideen  und  Sprache  ihm  in  Fleisch  und  Blut 
iibergegangen  sind  :  "  Ich  will  meine  Phantasie  in  die  Schule — 
in  die  nordamerikanischen  Urwalder  schicken ;  den  Niagara 
will  ich  rauschen  horen  und  Niagaralieder  singen.  Das  gehort 
notwendig  zu  meiner  Ausbildung.     Meine  Poesie  lebt  und  webt 


*  Siehe  iiber  Korners  L,eben  die  von  ihm  aufgezeiclinete  Skizze,  daselbst,  p.  251. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  163. 

*  Schurz  I,  pp.  156,  157. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  23 

in  der  Natur,  mid  in  Amerika  ist  die  Natnr  schoner,  gewaltiger 
als  in  Europa.  Kin  nngeheurer  Vorrat  der  herrlichsten  Bilder 
erwartet  mich  dort,  eine  Fiille  gottlicher  Auftritte,  die  noch 
daliegt  jungfraulich  und  unberiihrt  wie  der  Boden  der  Urwalder/ 
Ich  verspreche  mir  eine  wunderbare  Wirkung  davon  auf  mein 
Gemiit.  Die  Reise  auf  einem  Dampschiffe  geht  sehr  schnell 
und  ohne  Gefahr ; ""  in  Amerika  selbst  reist  man  aucli  vollig 
sicher,  denn  Bettler  und  Diebe  sind  dort  nicht  zu  finden,  weil 
sich  die  Menschen  ihr  Brod  auf  bequemeren  Wegen  verschafFen 
konnen.^  Von  wilden  Tieren  ist  gar  nichts  zu  fiirchten,  min- 
destens  weniger,  als  in  Europa  von  wiitenden  Hunden/  Zudem 
reise  ich  in  grosser  Gesellschaft  von  etwa  80  Personen,  die  sich 
in  Amerika  kolonisieren  werden Vielleicht  g-eht 


'  Die  Vorstellungen,  die  Lenau  sich  von  den  Urwaldern  und  von  dem  Ankauf 
eines  solchen  Waldes  machte,  beruhen  auf  Dudens  Reisebericht.  Uber  die 
Fruchtbarkeit  des  Bodens  in  diesen  Waldern  berichtet  er  auf  Seite  60  f:  "  Die 
ganze  Oberflache  dieses  Landstriches  ist  viele  hundert  Meilen  weit  von  der  fet- 
testen  Dammerde  bedeckt.  Ich  muss  Ihnen  nachdriichlichst  bemerken,  dass 
die  Bedeutung  der  Worte  '  fruchtbarer  Boden'  in  diesen  Gegenden  von  der  in 
Deutschland  sehr  verschieden  ist.  Guter  Boden  bedarf  in  dem  ersten  Jahrhun- 
dert  des  Diingers  gar  nicht  und  ist  in  den  ersten  Decennien  selbst  fiir  Weizen 
zu  fett."  Uber  den  grossartigen  Wald  berichtet  er  (p.  62),  nachdem  er  die  Arten 
der  Baume  aufgezahlt  hat:  "Ich  vermag  den  Eindruck  nicht  zu  beschreiben, 
den  die  tagelangen  Wanderungen  in  diesem  Flussthale  auf  mich  gemacht 
haben.  Hunderte  von  Meilen  lasst  sich's  zwischen  Riesenbaumen  hindurch  rei. 
sen,  ohne  dass  ein  einzelner  Sonnenstrahl  den  Scheitel  beriihre. "  Hier  erwahnt 
er  noch  Weinstocke,  deren  Stamme,  iiber  einen  Fuss  dick,  sich  iiber  hundert 
Fuss  hoch  emporheben,  und  beschreibt  (p.  63)  en  detail  die  Menge  der  wilden 
Fruchtbaume.  Er  schliesst  mit  den  Worten  (p.  63)  :  "  Ich  verhehle  Ihnen  nicht, 
dass  das  ganze  Leben  der  Bewohner  dieser  Gegenden  mich  anfangs  in  Trau- 
mereien  versetzte,  u.  noch  jetzt,  da  ich  bereits  drei  Monate  Zeit  gehabt  habe 
naher  zu  priifen,  kommt  es  mir  fast  als  Tauschung  vor,  wenn  ich  iibersehe,  was 
die  Natur  hier  dem  Menschen  gethan." 

^  Uber  das  bequeme  Reisen  auf  den  amerikanischen  Dampfschiflfen  vgl. 
Duden,  p.  284. 

*  Uber  die  Sicherheit  auf  der  Heerstrasse  zwischen  Baltimore  u.  Wheeling, 
bemerkt  Duden:  "  Man  fiirchtet  sicht  nirgends  weniger  vor  Dieben  u.  Raubern, 

als  hier Dass  aber,  zumal  im  Innern,  wenig  geraubt  und  gestohlen 

wird,  hat  denselben  Grund,  warum  man  keine  Bettler  antrifift.      Es  ist  nahmlich 
bequemer  den  Unterhalt  auf  andere  Weise  zu  erlangen,  p.  34." 

*  "  Alle  diese  Geschopfe  zusammen  bewirken  hier  weit  weniger  Besorgniss, 
als  in  Europa  die  tollen  Hunde."     Duden,  p.  97. 


24  Lenaii  in  Amcrika. 

mir  mit  der  nenen  Welt  zugleich  eine  neue  Welt  der  Poesie 
auf.  Icli  fiihle  wirklich  etwas  in  mir  schlummern,  ganz  ver- 
schieden  von  dem,  was  ich  bis  jezt  gewesen ;  vielleicht  wird 
dieses  Unbekannte  aufgeweckt  werden  vom  donnernden  Ruf  des 
Niagara.     Wie  schon  ist  sclion  der  Name  :  Niagara  !  Niagara  ! 

Niagara ! ]\Ianches    Deiner     schonen    Gedichte 

wiirde  ich  dann  den  stillen,  sinnenden,  wunderbaren  Blumenbau- 
men  ^  vorlesen,  mit  laiiter  Stimme,  so  dass  der  Urwald  plotzlich 
von  Sehnsucht  ergriffen  wiirde  nacli  dem  liebliclien  Dicliter, 
und  er  seinen  schonsten  Vogel  nacli  Dir  ausschicken  wiirde,  der 
dann,  weit  iiber's  Meer  herbeigeflogen,  auf  einmal  an  Deinem 
Fenster  sasse  im  Schwarzspanierhaus,  und  anklopfte  und  rief : 
'  Komm,  komm  nach  Amerika  !'  " 

Man  vergleiche  auch  liierzu  das  in  Januar  oder  Februar 
enstandene  Gedicht  der  Maskenball^  worin  der  Geist  der 
Duden'schen  Naturbilder  ganz  und  gar  welit : 

Said  willkommen  mir,  Matrosen  ! 
Nehmt  mich  auf  in  eurem  Schiffe  ! 
Frisch  hinaus  ins  Meerestosen 
Durch  die  fluthbeschaumten  Rifife  ! 
Ha!  schon  seh'ich  Mov^en  ziehn, 
Wetterwolken  seh'ich  jagen, 
Und  die  Stiirme  hor'ich  schlagen. 
SUsse  Heimath,  fahre  hin  ! 
Nach  der  Freiheit  Paradiesen 
Nehmen  wir  den  raschen  Zug, 
Wo  in  heil'gen  Waldverliesen 
Kein  Tyrann  sich  Throne  schlug. 
Weihend  mich  mit  stillem  Beten 
Will  den  Urwald  ich  betreten, 
Wandeln  will  ich  durch  die  Hallen, 
Wo  die  Schauer  Gottes  wallen;'^ 


'  "  Die  Pracht  der  Walder  ist,  besonders  in  diesetn  Monate,  iiber  alle  Beschreib- 
ung.  Sie  sind  voll  der  manigfaltigsten  Blumenbaume."  Nachdem  Duden  die 
Baume  schildert,  fahrt  er  fort:  "Alles  erinnert  mich,  dass  ich  in  einem  Lande 
bin,  auf  dessen  Wildnisse  wenigstens  die  von  Tacitus  gelieferte  Schilderung 
Germaniens  nicht  passt,"  p.  no. 

^  Vgl.  Duden' s  Reiseberichi,  pp.  62  und  63. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  25 

Wo  in  wiinderbarer  Pracht 
Himmelwarts  die  Baume  drinp^en, 
Brausend  um  die  keusche  Nacht 
Ihre  Riesenarme  schlingen/ 
Wo  Leuchtkafer,  Myriaden,^ 
Um  die  Schlingeblumen  fliegen, 
Die  sich  an  die  Baume  schmiegen,^ 
Auf  des  Bluhens  dunkeln  Pfaden 
Leuchten  sie  in  Duftgevvinden, 
Lehren  sie  den  Wipfel  finden, — 
Dort  will  ich  fiir  meinen  Kummer 
Finden  den  ersehnten  Schlummer, 
Will  vom  Schicksal  Kunde  werben, 
Dass  es  mir  mag  anvertrauen, 
Warum  Polen  musste  sterben. 
Und  der  Antwort  will  ich  lauschen 
In  der  Vogel  Melodeien, 
In  des  Raubthiers  wilden  Schreien 
Und  im  Niagararauschen. 

Ausserordentlich  interessierte  ihn  Dudens  Beschreibung  der 
wilden  Tiere,  namentlich  des  Opossums,  eines  Tieres,  das  sich 
wie  tot  stellt,  wenn  man  ihm  auf  den  Peltz  riickt.*  Er  wurde 
schliesslich,  wie  Kerner  berichtet,  so  unruhig,  dass  er  alle 
Stunden  einen  anderen  Plan  liatte  und  von  gar  niclits  mehr 
sprach  und  an  gar  nichts  mehr  dachte,  als  an  die  Reise  und  an 
das  Wesen  in  Amerika."  ^ 

DIE    REISE. 
Am  I.    April    1832   schreibt  Lenau  an  Kerner :    "  .  .  .  Du, 
lieber  Bruder,  mit  der  Actiengesellschaft  stinkt  es,  ist  allerlei 


^  Uber  die  himmelwarts  dringenden  Baumen  vgl.  Duden,  p.  62. 

''■  Vgl.  die  schon  oben  citierte  Stelle,  in  welcher  die  Wanderung  iiber  die 
Alleghanies  bei  Nacht  beschrieben  wird;  hier  warden  die  Myriaden  von  Leucht- 
kafern  erwahnt.     Duden,  p.  31. 

^  Uber  die  Blumenbaume  und  die  sich  daran  schmiegenden  Schlingpflanzen 
vgl.  Duden,  pp.  62,  no. 

*  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  p.  189  f.    Duden,  p.  102. 

•"  Schurz  I,  p.  158. 


36  Lenau  in  Anierika. 

Gesindel  dabei,  man  hat  mir  hier  von  alien  Seiten  die  Holle 
lieiss  gemaclit,  Missouri,  ubi  vos  estis  pecuniam  perdituri,  und 
dergleichen  schleclite  Witze  mehr  habe  ich  zu  horen  gekriegt, 
iind  ich  bin  dadurch  so  heillos  erschiittert  worden,  dass  ich  zit- 
terte  an  Handen  und  Fiissen  und  mein  guter  Kaiser  Franz,  den 
ich  im  Sacke  trug,  auf  einige  Kronthaler  gepragt,  bekam  das 
Zahneklappern  ;  ich  ziehe  mich  zuriick  von  den  Actien."  ^  Er 
blieb  aber  doch  bei  der  Gesellschaf t  ^  und  schiffte  sich  in  Mann- 
heim am  25.  Juni  nach  Amsterdam  ^  ein.  Griindlich  war  ihm 
schon  in  Mannheim  die  ganze  Reise  verleidet/ 

Es  ist  fiir  Lenaus  Naturauflfassung  charakteristisch  dass  er 
nie  die  Schonheiten  einzelner  Partieen  einer  Gegend,  sondern 
bloss  den  Gesammteindruck,  den  sie  macht,  hervorhebt.  So 
beschreibt  er  die  Rheingegend  in  den  Worten :  "  Sie  ist  einer 
bescheidenen,  aber  schonen  deutschen  Seele  gleich."  ^ 

Die  Passschwierigkeiten,  die  ihm  schon  auf  der  Rheinfahrt 
viel  Sorge  machten,  traten  in  Holland  drohend  auf.  Der 
Biirgermeister  in  Wobith  weigerte  sich  ihm  die  Passage  iiber 
die  Grenze  zu  gestatten,  aber  es  gelang  ihm  in  einer  musika- 
lischen  Abendunterhaltung,  die  ein  musikdurstiger  ZoUbeamter 
fiir  ihn  anberaumt  hatte,  den  Stadtvater  fiir  sich  zu  gewinnen, 
so  dass  er  ihm  seinen  Wunsch  gestattete.*'  Amsterdam  machte 
einen  ungiinstigen  Eindruck  auf  ihn ;  die  Strassen  kamen  ihm 
wie  grobe,  geschmacklose  Mosaik  vor.  Unter  den  Bildern  der 
Kunstgallerie  sprachen  ihn  besonders  die  Landschaftsgemalde 
von  Ruisdael  an,  die  er  voll  geheimnisvoller  gottlicher  Schwer- 
mut  fand,  dann  Gemalde  von  Nikolaus  Bercghem,  und  die  wei- 
nende  Magdalena  von  Correggio,  deren  redende  Thranen  und 
schmerzliche  Grube  iiber  dem  linken  Auge  ihm  die  hochste 
Form  der  Leidenschaftlichkeit  ausdriickten.'' 


'  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  p.  165. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  192. 

^  Brief  an  Kerner,  Mannheim,  23.  Juni  1832,  Schurz  I,  p.  iSr. 
*  Schurz  I.  p.  181. 

^  Nik.  Lenaus  Briefe  an  Emilie  von  Reinbeck  und  deren  Gatten,  George  von 
Reinbeck,  1832-1844,  herausgegeben  von  Anton  Schlossar  (Stuttgart  1896),  p.  24. 
•^  Schurz  I,  p.  183. 
'  Schurz  I,  p.  184. 


G.  A.  Mtilfinger.  27 

Am  27.  Juli  stach  der  alte,  gebrechliche  Ostindienfahrer,  Baron 
von  der  Kapellen,  auf  dem  sich  Lenau  eingeschifft  hatte,  in  den 
Canal  von  Texel.*  Capitan  Tollen,  ein  gefalliger  Herr,  verschaflfte 
Lenau  in  der  Kajiite  ein  Stiibchen,  wo  er  Platz  hatte  zu  lesen 
und  zu  dichten  und  die  Geige  zu  streichen.^  Wahrend  der 
tjberfahrt  machte  er  durch  sein  entziickendes  Spiel  auf  die  vielen 
Bauern  aus  Wiirttemberg,  welche  bei  der  Gesellschaft  waren,. 
einen  profunden  Eindruck.  Vor  etlichen  Jahren  starb  in  Texas 
ein  gewisser  Herr  Mohl,  der  zur  bekannten,  schwabischen 
Familie  Mohl  gehorte,  und  dessen  Vater  einer  der  Fiihrer  der 
Gesellchaft  war,  mit  welcher  Lenau  abreiste.  Dieser  erzahlte 
Herrn  Theodor  Poesche  in  Washington,  dass  der  Eindruck, 
den  Lenaus  Violinspiel  wahrend  der  tJberfahrt  nach  Amerika 
auf  ihn  machte,  ihm  unvergesslich  bleiben  werde.^  Da  er  damals 
nur  ein  Kind  war  und  sich  der  iibrigen  Erlebnisse  der  Reise 
nicht  erinnerte,  so  vermochte  er  nichts  weiteres  iiber  das 
Leben  auf  dem  Schiffe  zu  berichten.  Lenau  scheint  sich  auch 
des  tiefen  Eindrucks,  den  er  durch  sein  Violinspiel  auf  die 
wiirttembergischen  Bauern  wahrend  der  tjberfahrt  gemacht 
hatte,  in  spateren  Tagen  mit  Vergniigen  erinnert  zu  haben. 
Als  er  mit  Auerbach  in  Baden-Baden  in  freundschaftlichem 
Verkehre  stand,  erzahlte  Lenau  diesem  die  Erlebnisse  auf  der 
Amerikareise,  wogegen  Auerbach,  der  sich  gerade  mit  dem 
Entwurf  eines  Romanes  beschaftigte,  ihm  versprach,  dass  er 
als  weitere  Ausfiihrung  von  Freiligraths  Ausgewa7iderte7n 
Dichter  ihn  in  der  Rolle  eines  modernen  Arions  erscheinen 
lassen  wolle,  der  den  Bauern  auf  dem  Schiffe  zauberisch  Geige 
spielt,  und  bei  ihnen  zur  Mythe  wird,  die  sich  in  den  Urwaldern 
fortpflanzt.  Lenau  scheint  thatsachlich  unter  den  schwabischen 
Bauern,  die  sich  in  den  Urwaldern  von  Florida  und  Texas 
niederliessen,  zu  einer  solchen  Mythe  geworden  zu  sein. 

1  Schurz  I,  p.  188. 

^  Schurz  I,  p.  189. 

^  Ich  entnehme  dies  einem  Brief  von  Herrn  Theodor  Poesche,  der  mit  Herra 
Mohl  befreundet  war  und  mir  diese  Mitteilung  am  15.  Nov.  1894  aus  Washingr 
ton,  D.  C,  machte. 

*  Mitteilungen  Auerbachs,  Schurz  II,  p.  168. 


28  Lenaii  in  Amerika. 

Vor  der  Abreise  spriclit  Lenau  in  einem  Brief,  den  er,  wahrend 
das  SchifF  wegen  eines  Zusammenstosses  in  dem  Canal  von  Texel 
lag,  an  das  Land  befordern  liess,  seine  Freude  iiber  das  Meer 
aus.  Er  glaubt,  er  werde  eine  grosse  Leidenschaft  znm  Meere 
fassen/  Seine  Erwartnng  wiirde  anch  erfiillt.  In  dem  Briefe 
aus  Baltimore  schreibt  er :  "  Icli  bin  jetzt  um  ein  gutes  reicher, 
dass  ich  auch  das  Meer  kennen  gelernt  liabe.  Die  nachhaltigste 
und  beste  Wirkung  dieser  Seereise  ist  ein  gewisser  feierlicher 
Ernst,  der  sicli  diirch  den  langen  Anblick  des  Erhabenen  in  mir 
befestigt  hat.  Das  Meer  ist  mir  zu  Herzen  gegangen.  Das  sind 
die  zwei  Hauptmomente,  die  mich  gebildet  haben  :  Dies  atlan- 
tisclie  Meer  iind  die  osterreichisclien  Alpen  ;  doch  mochte  ich 
mich  vorzugsweise  einen  Zogling  der  letzteren  nennen."'  So 
sehr  ihm  auch  das  stiirmische  Meer  in  seiner  schrecklichen 
Leidenschaft  imponierte,  so  war  ihm  doch  das  stille  Meer  noch 
viel  grossartiger,  wie  es  schon  dem  Auge  ausgedehnter  erschien, 
als  das  bewegte.^ 

Uber  die  Ankunft  in  Amerika  lassen  wir  ihn  selbst  reden: 
"  Den  8.  October  betrat  ich  den  amerikanischen  Boden  zum  ersten 
Male.  Unser  Schiff  lag  noch  in  der  Chesapeake  Bay,  an  wel- 
cher  Baltimore,  unser  Landungsplatz,  liegt.  Der  Kapitan,  ein 
Passagier  aus  Wiirttemberg  und  ich  fuhren  in  einem  Nachen 
ans  Land.  Wegen  Untiefe  konnten  wir  nicht  bis  ans  Ufer  fah- 
ren.  Jeder  setzte  sich  auf  einen  Matrosen,  und  ich  ritt  also 
auf  einem  starken  Kerl  ans  Land.  Der  Anblick  des  Ufers  war 
lieblich.  Zerstreute  Eichen  auf  einer  Wiese,  weidendes  Vieh 
und  ein  klafterlanger  zerlumpter  Amerikaner  mit  einer  aben- 
teuerlichen  Marderkappe  waren  das  Erste,  was  wir  antrafen. 
Der  Kapitan  frug  die  lebendige  Klafter  (der  Mensch  war  so  diirr, 
dass  man  wirklich  nichts  als  Lange  an  ihm  sah)  nach  einem 
Landhause,  wo  man  Lebensmittel  kaufen  konne.  Murmelnd 
und  tabakkauend  fiihrte  uns  die  Klafter  ungefahr  eine  halbe 
Stunde  weit  zu  einem  recht  hiibschen  Haus  von  Backsteinen. 


^  Schurz  I,  p.  189. 
''■  Schurz  I,  p.  196. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  196. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  29 

Die  zahlreiche  Familie  des  Bewohners  empfing  uns  ziemlich 
artig.  Die  Weiber  und  die  Kinder  waren  sehr  geputzt.  Es 
wunderte  mich  sehr  der  Luxiis  in  diesem  einsamen  abgelegenen 
Bauernhaiis;  weniger  wunderte  mich  das  Auffallende,  Prun- 
kende,  Geschmacklose  im  Anzuge,  besonders  der  Kinder.  Ich 
glaube,  wenn  der  Mensch  sich  in  der  Einsammkeit  putzt,  so 
thut  er  es  ohne  Geschmack.  Geschmack  ist  ein  Sohn  der 
Gesellschaft,  vielleicht  der  jiingstgeborne.  Man  kredenzte 
uns  sofort  Cider  (ich  mag  den  Namen  des  matten  Gesoflfs  nicht 
mit  deutschen  Buchstaben  schreiben),  Butter  und  Brod.  Eetz- 
tere  waren  gut ;  aber  der  Cider  (sprich:  Seider)  reimt  sich  auf  : 
"  leider."  Der  Amerikaner  hat  keinen  Wein,  keine  Nachtigall. 
Mag  er  bei  einem  Glase  Cider  seine  Spottdrossel  behorchen,  mit 
seinen  Dollars  in  der  Tasche,  ich  setze  mich  lieber  zum  Deut- 
schen und  hore  bei  seinem  Wein  die  liebe  Nachtigall,  wenn 
auch  die  Tasche  armer  ist.  Bruder,  diese  Amerikaner  sind  him- 
melan  stinkende  Kramerseelen.  Tod  fiir  alles  geistige  Leben, 
maustodt.  Die  Nachtigall  hat  Recht,  dass  sie  bei  diesen  Wich- 
ten  nicht  einkehrt.  Das  scheint  mir  von  ernster,  tiefer  Bedeut- 
ung  zu  sein,  das  Amerika  gar  keine  Nachtigall  hat.  Es  kommt 
mir  vor  wie  ein  poetischer  Fluch.  Eine  Niagarastimme  gehort 
dazu,  um  diesen  Schuften  zu  predigen,  dass  es  noch  hohere 
Gotter  gebe,  als  die  im  Miinzhause  geschlagen  werden."  ^ 

Zu  der  diisteren  Auffassung  amerikanischer  Verhaltnisse  hatte 
bei  Lenau,  dessen  Urteil  iibrigens  immer  von  der  jeweiligen 
Stimmung  stark  beeinflusst  wurde,  der  Verdruss,  den  er  bei  der 
Einwandergesellschaft  gehabt  hatte,  viel  beigetragen."^  Die 
meisten  Deutschen,  so  auch  die  Gesellschaft  bei  der  Lenau  war, 
landeten  in  den  dreissiger  Jahren  dieses  Jahrhunderts  in  Balti- 
more, weil  dieser  Hafen  durch  eine  gute  Nationalstrasse  die 
beste  Verbindung  mit  dem  Ohioflusse  bot,  und  weil  sich  zahl- 
reiche deutsche  HandelsjEirmen,  meist  Zweiggeschafte  Bremer 
und  Hamburger  Handelshauser,  hier  etabliert  hatten.^    Nach  der 


^  Brief  an  Schurz  aus  Baltimore.     Schurz  I,  p.  198  f. 

*  Schurz  I,  p.  193. 

'  Vgl.  Deutsches  Eleni.  in  d.  V.  5.,  p.  394. 


30  Lenati  in  Amerika. 

Ankunft  in  Baltimore  trennten  sich  die  Mitglieder  der  Gesell- 
schaft,  die  noch  auf  der  Reise  ziisammen  gehalten  hatten.' 
Schon  in  Holland  hatten  die  Verzogerung  in  der  Abreise  und 
schlechte  Versorgung  der  Mitglieder  einen  Stnrm  der  Entriist- 
iing  gegen  die  Unternehmer  hervorgerufen.  Lenau  berichtet 
dariiber  an  Emilie  Reinbeck  nnterm  25  July  1832  von  Amster- 
dam aus:"  "  Ich  bin  unfahig,  Ihnen  die  letzten  Ereignisse  meiner 
Reise  zu  schreiben,  Der  bitterste  Unmut  iiberwaltigt  mich, 
wenn  ich  dran  denke.  Die  Aktiengesellschaft  der  Auswanderer 
hat  sich  aufgelost  und  zwar  unter  den  scheusslichsten  Auftritten, 
denen  ich  je  beigewohnt.  Der  Kommissar  Mohl  wurde  zur 
Rechnung  gezwungen.  Da  ergab  sich  ein  Resultat,  dass  die 
meisten  ihr  Geld  zuriicknahmen.  Die  Bauern  waren  wiitend, 
wollten  die  gauze  Mohl'sche  Familie  iiber  Bord  werfen.  Ich 
liatte  auf  der  Reise  einen  bedeutenden  Einfluss  iiber  die  Gesell- 
schaft  gewonnen,  den  ich  geltend  machte,  Gewalt  zu  verhiiten. 
Durch  acht  Tage  war  ich  ohne  Rast  beschaftigt,  teils  den  Sturm 
zu  beschworen,  teils  Herrn  Mohl  die  Rechnung  abzudringen. 
Ich  kam  mit  einer  Maulschelle  von  300  Gulden  davon."  Uber 
die  Art  und  Weise,  wie  Lenau  sich  diese  Maulschelle  zuzog, 
o-ibt  Schurz  uns  folgende  Auskunft:  Die  Auswanderer  erwahlten 
Lenau  zum  allgemeinen  Sachverwalter,  und  er  Hess  die  ange- 
klagten  Fiihrer  vorladen  und  verhoren.  Und  nachdem  sie 
ihrer  Vertragsverletzungen  iiberwiesen  waren,  Hess  er  den 
Hauptfiihrer  unter  das  Verdeck  des  Schiffes  in  Haft  nehmen. 
Dieser  rachte  sich  aber  bald,  indem  er  den  Dichter  wegen  ange- 
masster  Gewalt  und  eigenmachtiger  Freiheitsbeschrankungen  vor 
Gericht  anklagen  Hess,  und  nur  die  tjberzeugung  des  Richters, 
dass  Lenau  auf  guten  Grund  hin  und  aus  Gerechtigkeitsgefiihl 
geamtet  hatte,  rettete  ihn  vor  sehr  schwerer  Bestrafung.^ 

So  sehr  auch  allgemein  die  Verhaltungsweise  des  Fiihrers  in 
der  Gesellschaft  Verdruss  erregt   hatte,  waren   doch   alle   ent- 


'  Mitteilungen  von  Herrn  Mohl  an  Theodor  Poesche.     Aus  einem  Brief  von 
Theodor  Poesche  aus  Washington,  D.  C,  15.  Dec.  1894. 
*  Nikolaiis  Lenaus  Briefe  an  Emilie  von  Reinbeck,  p.  26. 
'  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  p.  193. 


G.  A.  Midjinger.  31 

schlossen  nach  ihrer  Ankunft  in  Amerika  moglichst  zusammen 
zu  halten  und  sich  insgesammt  in  einer  Gegend  anzusiedeln  ; 
allein  auch  dieses  Vorhaben  musste  aufgegeben  werden/     Im 
Jahre  1832  grassierte  die  Cholera  so  schrecklich  in  Baltimore, 
dass  es  nicht  ratsam  schien,  in  den  ohnehin  nicht  sehr  reinlich 
gehaltenen    Emigrantenherbergen    einen  mehrtagigen    Aufent- 
halt  zu    machen,  um  sich  mit  zuverlassigen  Lenten  iiber  den 
geeignetsten  Ort  fiir  eine  gemeinschaftliche  Niederlassung  zu 
beraten.^     Es  war  daher  jeder  darauf  angewiesen  sich  auf  eigene 
Faust  ein   Unterkommen  zu  sichern  ;    viele  liessen  sich   nach 
Florida  verlocken,  wo  es    ihnen    sehr  traurig   erging.     Lenau 
wurde  durch  die  Auflosung  der  Gesellschaft  und  sonstige  Ent- 
tauschungen,  die  er  auf  der  Reise  und  in  Baltimore  erfahren, 
dermassen    missgestimmt,    dass    er    den    urspriinglichen    Plan, 
weitausgedehnte  Reissen  zu  machen,   aufgab   und   sich    damit 
begniigen  wollte,  den  Niagara  zu  besuchen  und  dann  nach  Hause 
zuriickzukehren.^     Es    beweisen    aber    die    als  Nachtrag  dem 
ersten  Briefe  aus  Baltimore  beigefiigten  Worte  :  "  Die  Idee  in 
Amerika  Land  zu  kaufen  und  durch  einen  Pachter  bearbeiten 
zu  lassen,  habe  ich  nicht  aufgegeben ;  es  ist  dies  auf  jeden  Fall 
eine  sichere  Art,  sein  Geld  anzulegen  und  sehr  gut  zu  verzinsen," 
dass    er    sich    endlich    doch    noch    anders    entschlossen    hat.* 
Die  Riickkehr  zur  Ausfiihrung  seines  urspriinglichen  Projektes 
diirften  wohl  die    Deutschen    in    Baltimore    veranlasst  haben,'^ 
an  die    er   empfolen    war   und    sich    sicherlich    wandte.     Das 
deutsche  Element  spielte  bereits  damals  eine  nicht  unbedeutende 
Rolle  in  der  Stadt  an  der  Chesapeake  Bay  und  machte  seinen  Ein- 
fluss   durch  ein  deutsches   Blatt  Die  Maryland  Staatszeihmg 
geltend/      Diejenigen    unter    diesen    neuen    Bekanntschaften, 
welche  es  selbst  erlebt  hatten,   dass  sich  in  den  rasch  empor- 
bliihenden  Centralstaaten  der  Wert  des  Landes  in  kurzer  Zeit 


1  Brief  von  Herrn  Poesche  v.  15.  Nov.  1S94. 
^  Brief  von  Herrn  Poesche  v.  15.  Nov.  1894. 
^  Brief  aus  Baltimore,  Schurz  I,  p.  199. 

*  Schurz  I,  p.  200. 

"  Schurz  I,  i85  ;  vergl.  Deutsches  Element  in  den  Vereinigten  Staatett,  p.  394, 

*  Daselbst,  p.  394. 


32  Lenau  m  Amerika. 

verdoppelte,   diirften  den  Dichter  zu    dem   Ankaiife  von  Con- 
gressland  ziigeraten  haben. 

In  Baltimore  hielt  sich  Lenau  etwa  zehn  Tage  auf,  teils 
nm  sich  ziir  weiteren  Reise  ins  Innere  vorzubereiten/  teils 
um  die  auf  dem  Meere  empfangenen  Eindriicke  aufzuzeichnen 
und  die  in  Angriff  genommenen  Gedichte  zu  vollenden.  So 
erwahnt  er  in  dem  gegen  Ende  des  Baltimorer  Aufentlialts  an 
Schurz  gerichteten  Brief  die  Vollendung  der  zwei  letzten 
Gesange  der  Marionetten  und  einige  kleinere  Gedichte  . 
wahrscheinlich  die  vier  Ailajitika  :  die  Seejiingfrmien  ;  Meeres- 
stille ;  Seemorgen ;  An  mein  Vaterland}  Wahrend  des  Auf- 
enthaltes  in  Baltimore  logierte  Lenau  in  dem  Exchange 
Hotel  (Borsen-Gasthof)  einer  jener  abscheulichen  Emigranten- 
Spelunken,  die,  um  "  griine  Gaste "  anzulocken,  einen  hoch- 
klingenden  Namen  fiihrten.  Dieses  Gasthaus  wird  weder  in 
dem  ofnziellen  Adressenbuch  der  Stadt  Baltimore,  noch  in 
Lucas'  Picture  of  Baltimore  erwahnt  f  es  konnte  daher  nicht 
einmal  zu  den  Gasthofen  dritten  Ranges  gehort  haben.  Wie 
in  vielen  andern  Stiicken,  so  folgte  wohl  auch  Lenau  in  der 
Wahl  seines  Gasthofes  dem  Rate  Dudens  auf's  Wort,  der  in 
seiner  Reisebeschreibung  den  Emigranten  fiir  einen  langeren 
Aufenthalt  diese  "  Boardinghouses  "  wegen  der  Ruhe  und  nie- 
deren  Preise  besonders  empfiehlt.*  Aus  Lenaus  Beschreibung 
des  Gasthofes,  die  auch  manche  Ziige  mit  der  Duden'schen 
gemein  hat,  konnen  wir  auf  den  Charakter  solcher  Kosthauser 
schliessen  :  "  Man  darf  diese  Kerle  nur  im  Wirtshause  sehen,  um 
sie  auf  immer  zu  hassen.  Eine  lange  Tafel,  auf  beiden  Seiten 
50  Stiihle  (so  ist  es  da,  wo  ich  wohne);  Speisen,  meist  Fleisch, 
bedecken  den  ganzen  Tisch.  Da  erschallt  die  Fressglocke,  und 
hundert  Amerikaner  stiirzen  herein,  keiner  spricht  ein  Wort, 
jeder  sturtzt  auf  eine  Schiissel,  isst  hastig  hinein,  springt  dann 

1  Vgl.  Duden,  p.  20. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  199. 

*  Dies  teilte  mir  B.  C.  Steiner,  Bibliothekar  vou  Enoch  Pratt  Library,  aus 
Baltimore  unterm  23  Jan.  1S95  mit. 

*  Dudens  Reisebericht,  p.  19. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  33 

auf,  wirft  den  Stuhl  bin,  und  eilt  davon,  um  Dollars  zu  ver- 
dienen."  ^ 

In  diesen  obscuren  Emigrantenhausern  hielten  sich  allerlei 
Abenteiirer  aus  aller  Herren  Lander  auf.  Als  Niembsch  ge- 
wohnbeitsgemass  spat  morgens  noch  im  Bette  lag,  wurde  er 
von  einem  reiselustigen  hessischen  Studenten,  der  sicli  aufs 
Geigen  gut  verstand,  dringend  bestiirmt,  sich  alsbald  aiis  dem 
Bette  zu  erheben  und  mit  ihm  eine  Kunstreise  nach  Siidamerika, 
Australien  und  Ostindien  anzutreten."  Obwohl  Lenau  sich 
noch  in  Texel  mit  derlei  Weltumsegelungsplanen  trug,^  so  war 
er  durch  das  rauhe  Seeleben  und  das  ewige  Pockelfleischessen 
auf  der  langen  Reise  von  zehn  Wochen  dermassen  abgekiihlt, 
dass  er  sich  freute  auf  "terra  firma"  bleiben  zu  konnen.  Er 
liess  den  Musensohn  allein  ziehen  und  kaufte  sich  sofort  in 
Baltimore  einen  mutigen,  zuverlassigen  Schimmel,  mit  dem  er 
eiligst  den  langersehnten  Urwaldern  des  Westens  entgegenritt.* 

Der  Zug  der  Einwanderer,  der  nach  der  Julirevolution  zu 
einem  machtigen  Strome  herangeschwoUen  war,  bewegte  sich  auf 
zwei,  etwa  im  Jahre  1825  vollendeten  Heerstrassen  iiber  das  Alle- 
ghany Gebirge  in  der  Richtung  nach  dem  Ohio.^  Die  siidliche 
dieser  Strassen  fiihrt  durch  die  Staaten  Maryland,  Pennsylvanien 
und  Virginien  nach  der  Stadt  Wheeling  am  Ohio,  von  wo  aus 
die  Reise  nach  Cincinnati  (Ohio),  Louisville  (Kentucky)  und  St. 
Louis  (Missouri)  auf  dem  Flusse  weiter  fortgesetzt  wurde.  Die 
meisten  gebildeten  Deutschen,  welche  nach  dem  Hambacher 
Feste  ihre  Freiheitsideale  in  der  Wildniss  des  westlichen  Ame- 
rika  verwirklichen  wollten,  folgten  Duden  auf  der  siidlichen 
Strasse  nach  Montgomery  (Missouri).''  Viele  blieben  jedoch 
in  den  grossen  Stadten  Cincinnati  und  St.  Louis  hangen.  Ware 
Lenau  in  eine  derartige  Gesellschaft  gleichgesinnter  Romanti- 


^  Vgl.  Dudens  Reisebericht,  pp.  19  und  20  mit  Schurz  I,  p.  199. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  200. 

'  Nik.  Lenaus  Briefe  an  Emilie  Reinbeck,  p.  29. 
*  Schurz  I,  pp.  2CX)  und  201. 

^  Dudens  Reisebericht,  pp.  21,  382  ;  vgl.  auch  Das  deidschc  Elcjii.  in  den  V.  S., 
P-  394- 

**  £>er  Deutsche  Pionier,  Jahrg.  6  (1874)  p.  391  ff. 


34  Lenau  in  Amcrika. 

ker  gerateti,  wie  sie  damals  der  siidlichen  Strasse  folgte,  so 
ware  er  moglicherweise  ganz  hiergeblieben  imd  hatte  in  den 
Urwaldern  Amerikas  im  Kainpfe  mit  den  Naturmachten  einen 
ihm  heilsamen  realistischen  Bildungsgang  durchgemacht.  Es 
liatte  gewisslicli  eine  derartige,  nach  aussen  hin  gewandte  Tha- 
tigkeit  den  allzusehr  nach  innen  gekehrten  Dieter  allein  retten 
konnen.  Da  Lenaii  dnrch  Briefe  aus  Schwaben  an  den  deut- 
schen  Kaufmann  C.  L.  Volz  in  Pittsburg  empfohlen  war/ 
wahlte  er  die  nordliche,  kiirzere  Heerstrasse,  die  durch  das 
bereits  stark  bevolkerte  und  mit  vielen  industriereichen  Stadten 
besate  siidliche  Pennsylvanien  an  den  Ohio  fiihrte.^  Die  Dis- 
tanz  von  Baltimore  nach  Pittsburg  betragt  etwa  230  engl.  Meilen 
und  konnte  damals  zu  Pferde  in  4  Tagen  zuriickgelegt  werden. 
Unter  den  vielen  bliihenden  Stadtchen  am  Wege  war  es  be- 
sonders  das  zwischen  hohen  Bergen  hiibsch  gelegene  Bedford, 
das  den  Fremden  anlockte.  Das  im  toskanischen  Baustil  erbaute 
Rathaus  von  Bedford,  das  mit  hohen  Saulengangen  und  erha- 
benem  Dome  dem  auf  der  Heerstrasse  vom  Osten  kommenden 
Wanderer  schon  in  der  Feme  einen  schonen  Anblick  gewahrte, 
gehorte  mit  zu  den  besten  Bauten  des  Staates  Pennsylvanien. 
Das  Wachstum  verdankte  diese  Stadt  den  am  Fusse  der  Ge- 
birge  gelegenen  Heilquellen,  die  schon  im  Jahre  1832  beriihmt 
waren  und  eine  grosse  Anzahl  Leidender  wegen  ihrer  wunder- 
baren  Heilkraft  in  manchen  Krankheiten  anzogen.^  Durch  den 
Ruf  der  Quellen  und  den  Zauber  der  Gegend  angezogen,  hielt 

Lenau  in  Bedford  an  und  sah  sich  im  Stadtchen  um viel- 

leicht  hoffte  er  auch  durch  das  Heilwasser  Linderung  fiir  den 
Scharbock  zu  finden,  den  er  sich  auf  der  Reise  zugezogen  hatte. 
Ein  gliicklicher  Zufall  fiihrte  ihn  mit  einem  amerikanischen 
Juristen  (niclit  Kaufmann  wie  Schurz  annimmt),  seit  1864 
Richter  des  Bezirks,  in  dem  Bedford  liegt,  zusammen.  Der 
Solin  dieses  Richters,  Alexander  King  Jr.,  teilte  mir  unterm  20. 


^  Schurz  I,  p.  203. 

^  Siehe  Duden  (p.  382)  iiber  diese  Strasse. 

'■''A  Gazetteer  of  the  State  of  Penn.     By  T.  F.  Gordon,  Philadelphia  (Penu., 
1832),  part  II,  pp.  38  and  39. 


G.  A.  Miilfinger.  35 

Feb.  1895  mit,  dass  sein  Vater  besondere  Freude  daran  fand, 
alien  Besuchern  des  Stadtchens,  insbesondere  den  Auslandern, 
Gastfreundschaft  zu  erweisen  und  sie  zu  den  Heilquellen,  an 
denen  er  Anteil  haben  mochte,  hinauszufiihren/ 

Der  Bedforder  Jurist  fiihrte  wohl  auch  Lenau  hinaus  zu  diesen 
in  einem  von  Urbaumen  umschatteten  Thale  gelegenen  Quellen 
und  zeigte  ihm  die  anderweitigen  Sehenswiirdigkeiten  der  Um- 
gegend.  Da  der  Amerikaner  jedoch  kein  Deutsch  verstand,  und 
Lenau,  obgleicher  von  seinen  Wiener  Freunden  Englisch  gelernt, 
es  doch  nie  zum  Sprechen  gebracht  hatte,  wurde  auf  dem 
Spaziergang  die  Unterhaltung  ganz  auf  lateinisch  gefiihrt.  So 
sehr  auch  durch  diesen  Umstand  der  Austausch  der  Gedanken 
erschwert  wurde,  so  fanden  sich  doch  bald  die  Herzen  Beider ; 
Alexander  King  verehrte  Niembsch  zum  Andenken  an  ihre  so 
schnell  geschlossene  Freundschaft  Mitchells  Travellers  Gtdde 
through  the  United  States^  worin  er  eigenhandig  mit  Bleistift 
die  Worte  schrieb  : 

Alexander  King 

de  Bedfordia 

dedit  ad  ejus  amicum 

Dominum  Niembsch.'** 

Schurzs  Vermutung,  dass  es  in  Bedford  war,  wo  Lenau  einer 
zahlreichen  erlesenen  Gesellschaft  das  wilde  Rakozilied  vor- 
spielte  und  Alexander  King  vorsprang  und  wie  ausser  sich 
aufschrie  :  Hurrah,  Magyar !  ist  wohl  nicht  richtig.  Es  hatte 
sich  eher  ein  deutscher  Musikkenner,  wie  Herr  von  Bonnhorst, 
den  Lenau  in  Pittsburg  kennen  lernte,  auf  eine  solche  Weise 
vom  Spiel  steirischer  Landler  oder  des  baroken  Rakoziliedes 
enthusiasmieren  lassen.^ 

Nach  diesem  voriibergehenden  Aufenthalt  im  anmutigen 
Bedford  setzte  Niembsch  seine  Reise  fort  und  langte  etwa  am 
22.  oder  23.  Oktober  in  Pittsburg  an.  Im  Hause  von  Herrn 
C.  L.  Volz,  an    den    er   empfohlen    war,    fand    er   freundliche 


'  Brief  von  Alexander  King,  Jr.,  den  20.  Feb.  1S95. 

''■  Schurz  I,  p.  201. 

■'  Das  Deutsche  Element  in  den  V.  S. ,  p.  46. 


36  Lenaii  in  Ainerika. 

Aufnahme  iind  liebreiche  Behandlung,  so  dass  er  sich  bald 
heimiscli  fiihlte.  Schon  der  Name  des  Mannes  that,  wie 
Scliurz  berichtet,  Niembsch  wohl,  denn  so  hiess  audi  der 
Haiiptmann,  bei  dem  er  als  Student  im  Jahre  1820  zu  Wien 
gewohnt  battel  In  der  Stadt  Pittsburg,  die  schon  damals 
eine  grosse  Industrie  hatte  und  15000  Einwohner  zahlte,  pflegten 
die  deutschen  Honoratioren  jener  Zeit,  zu  denen  unter  andern 
die  Herren  Karl  von  Bonnhorst,  C.  L.  Volz  und  Schweppe 
gehorten,  alle  Deutschen  von  Rang,  welche  ihre  Stadt  besuchten, 
festlich  zu  empfangen.' 

So  machten  schon  im  Jahre  1825  ^i^  Herren  Volz  und  Bonn- 
horst dem  Herzog  Bernhardt  von  Sachsen- Weimar,  der  einen 
ausfiihrlichen  Bericht  von  seiner  Reise  in  Amerika  schrieb,  ihre 
Aufwartung,  zeigten  ihm  die  Merkwiirdigkeiten  und  Fabriken 
von  Pittsburgh  und  begleiteten  ihn  auch  am  folgenden  Tage 
nach  Economy.^  Spater  wurden  auch  die  Herren  Hecker  und 
Gefahrten,  welche  nach  der  fehlgeschlagenen  Revolution  im 
Jahre  48  Deutschland  verlassen  mussten,  auf  ihrer  Durchreise 
nach  Illinois  und  Missouri,  wo  sie  sich  niederliessen,  von  den 
Deutschen  in  Pittsburgh  auf  ahnliche,  gastliche  Weise  emp- 
fangen.* Auch  Lenau  wurde  aufs  freimdlichste  in  den  Kreis 
dieser  angesehenen  Deutschen  aufgenommen.  Am  Abend 
veranstaltete  Herr  Karl  von  Bonnhorst,  friiherer  preussischer 
Offizier  und  zur  Zeit  Friedensrichter  in  Pittsburgh,^  eine  Soiree 
in  seiner  Wohnung  und  lud  dazu  Lenau,  und  dessen  Diener  ein.** 

Herr  H.  Kleber,  ein  betagter  Biirger  von  Pittsburgh,  der  als 
Jiingling  dieser  Abendunterhaltung  beiwohnte  und  Lenau  nebst 
seinem  Begleiter  kennen  lernte,  teilt  mir  dariiber  folgendes  mit: 


^  Schurz  I,  p.  203  ;  vergl.  Das  Deutsche  Element  in  den  V.  S.,  p.  45. 

'^  Ich  entnehme  dies  aus  zwei  Briefen  vom  20.  uud  29.  April  1895  von  Herrn 
H.  Kleber,  der  friilier  in  Pittsburgh  mit  Herrn  C.  Volz  ein  Geschaft  zusammen 
hatte. 

^  Reise  Sr.  Hoheit  des  Herzogs  Bernhard  zu  Sachsen-  Weimar  Eiseiiach  durch 
Nordamerika  182^-29,  herausgegeben  von  Heinrich  L,uden  (Weimar,  1828),  II, 

p.  17. 

*  Brief  von  Herrn  H.  Kleber  V.  20.  April  1895. 

'"  Vergl.  Das  Deutsche  Elem.  in  den  V.  S.  von  N.  A.,  p.  46. 

^  Brief  V.  Herrn  H.  Kleber,  den  20.  April  1896. 


G.  A.  Miiljinger.  37 

Herr  von  Bonnhorst,  der  sehr  gut  Violine  spielte  imd  selbst 
"komponierte,  trug  zur  Unterhaltung  der  Gaste  manche  schone 
Stiicke  vor.  Im  Laufe  der  Unterhaltung  notigte  man  auch 
Niembsch,  etwas  vorzutragen.  Niembsch  willigte  ein  und  iiber- 
Taschte  seine  amerikanischen  Zuhorer  durch  das  meisterhafte 
Spiel  osterreichischer  und  steirischer  Weisen  dermassen,  dass 
sie  ihni  vol!  Verwunderung  das  Compliment  machten,  nocli 
Niemand  habe  bis  zur  Zeit  westlich  von  den  Alleghany  Gebir- 
gen  mit  solcher  Meisterhaftigkeit  die  Violine  gespielt.^  Durch 
diesen  ihm  sehr  zugethanen  Pittsburgher  Freundeskreis,  nament- 
lich  durch  Herrn  Volz,  liess  sich  Lenau  wohl  bestimmen, 
nicht  weiter  dem  Strom  der  Einwanderer  den  Ohio  hinunter  zu 
folgen,  sondern  die  mitgebrachte  Barschaft  in  den  fruchtbaren 
Gegenden  des  damals  eben  erschlossenen  Centralteiles  von  Ohio 
anzulegen.  Der  Sitz  des  Landereiamtes  fiir  diesen  Bezirk  war 
das  etwa  100  Meilen  von  Pittsburg  entfernte  Stadtchen  New 
Lisbon  (Ohio).^  Der  Weg  dahin  zog  sich  am  rechten  Ufer  des 
Ohio  hinauf  und  fiihrte  durch  Economy  nach  Beaver,  wo  eine 
Briicke  in  den  Staat  Ohio  hiniiberfiihrte.^  Herzog  Bernhardt 
von  Sachsen  Weimar,  der  etliche  Jahre  vor  Niembsch  denselben 
Weg  zuriicklegte,  beschreibt  diese  Gegend  wie  folgt:  "Das  Thai 
erinnert  sehr  an  das  Maasthal  zwischen  Namur  und  Liittich;  es 
ist  vortrefflich  angebaut;  die  '  Farms  '  folgen  nah  auf  einander; 
die  griinen  Hohen,  sowie  die  Gruppen  von  Zuckerahorn  und 
Akazien,  gewahren  einen  ausserst  schonen  Anblick."  * 

Auf  dem  Wege  nach  New  Lisbon  kehrte  Lenau  in  der  am 
Wege  gelegenen  Niederlassung  der  Harmonisten,  Economy,  ein. 
Warscheinlich  begleitete  ihn  sein  Freund  Herr  C.  L.  Volz 
dahin,  der  einen  Laden  mit  allerlei  deutschen  und  einheimi- 
schen  Waaren  hielt^  und  mit  den  Harmonisten  in  geschaftlicher 


1  Brief  von  Herrn  H.  Kleber  vom  20.  April  1895. 

^  Aus  einer  Mitteilung  von  Herrn  H.  Rattermann  ;  auch  aus  einem  Brief  von 
Herrn  H.  Kleber  v.  29.  April  1895. 
^  Gordons  Gazetteer  of  the  State  of  Pennsylvania  I,  p.  54;  vgl.  auch  II,  p.  24. 

*  Herzog  Bernhardts  Reisebericht  II,  p.  203  flf. 

*  Das  Deutsche  Elem.  in  den  V.  S.,  p.  45.     Herr  Kleber,  der  mit  Herrn  Volz 
zusammen  das  Geschiift  liatte,  teilte  niir  Naheres  dariiber  mit. 


38  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

Beziehung  stand,  und  stellte  ihii  Vater  Rapp,  dem  Griinder  der 
Colonic,  vor.  Diese  Ansiedlung,  damals  etwa  150  Hanser 
zahlend,^  hat  eine  reizende  Lage  anf  einem  hohen  "  Bluff  "  am 
Ohio;  hinter  dem  Orte,  sowie  jenseits  des  Flusses  dem  Orte 
gegeniiber,  ziehen  sich  lange  Hiigelreihen  hin,  an  deren  Fnsse  da 
nnd  dort  zerstreut  "  Farms"  liegen.  tjberall  sieht  man  wohlge- 
pflanzte  Obstgarten  und  an  den  Strassen  die  verschiendensten 
Sorten  von  Schattenbiiumen.  Auf  den  Hiigeln  wurden  grosse 
Schafherden,  wie  in  Deutschland,  geweidet.  Dieser  landschaft- 
liche  Charakter  mochte  Lenau  an  die  osterreichischen  Ufer  der 
Donau  erinnert  haben.  Als  Lenau  im  Jahre  1832  in  Economy 
einkchrtc,  stand  die  Gemeinde  noch  in  voller  Bliite.  Da  sich 
Viehzucht  und  Ackerbau  in  der  friiheren  Niederlassung  am  Wa- 
bash-Flusse,  Indiana,  nicht  produktiv  genug  erwiesen  hatten, 
legte  Vater  Rapp  bei  der  tjbersiedlung  nach  Pennsylvanien 
Wollen-  und  Seidenfabriken  an.  Als  die  amerikanische  Indu- 
strie nach  dem  Seekrieg  mit  England  181 2  einen  erheblichen 
Aufschwung  erlebt  hatte,  wurde  dadurch  die  Rapp'sche  Colonic 
bald  in  pekuniarer  Beziehung  an  die  Spitze  aller  communistichen 
Gemeinden  gestellt.^  Weil  unter  alien  Gesellschaften  dieser  Art 
das  Gedeihen  der  Harmoniegemeinde  einzig  dastand,  pflegten 
fast  alle  Europaer,  die  Amerika  bereisten,  in  dieser  Gescllschaft 
einzukehren,  um  ihre  Einrichtung  und  Methoden  naher  kennen 
zu  lernen.  In  eigener  Person  fiihrte  Vater  Rapp  mit  einem 
gewissen  Stolz  die  Besucher  in  den  Fabriken  herum,  um  ihnen 
einen  Begriff  von  der  Industrie  und  dem  Wohlstande  der 
Gemeinde  zu  geben.^  Bei  einem  solchem  Besuche  in  den 
Fabriken  wurde  es  Lenau,  der  durch  seine  Geistesart  aller  In- 
dustrie abgeneigt  war,  unter  den  Radern  und  Spindeln  formlich 
libel  zu  Mut.  Es  war  hingegen  die  reizende  Landschaft  um 
Economy,  die  ihn  anzog/ 


^  Gordons  Gazetteer,  p.  152. 

^  Vgl.  Herzog  Bernhardts  Bericht  iiber  Economy.  Reisebericht  II,  Kap. 
XXIV,  pp.  158-70  ;  vgl.  auch  Aus  der  transatlantischen  Gesellschaft,  Nord- 
atnerikanische  Kulturbilder  von  Karl  Knortz.     Leipzig  1882,  p.  152. 

*  Herzog  Bernhardts  Bericht  II,  pp.  206,  209. 

*  Emma  Niendorf.     Lenau  in  Schwaben,  p.  20.     Leipzig  1853. 


G.  A.  Muljingcr.  39 

Nach  diesem  voriibergehenden  Besuch  bei  den  Rappisten  eilte 
Lenau  nach  New  Lisbon,  Ohio,  wo  sich  das  Landereiamt  befand, 
nnd  kaufte  bereits  am  26.  Okt.  1832  (also  18  Tage  nach  seiner 
Ankunft  in  Amerika) '  400  Morgen  (acres)  Congressland  in  dem 
beinahe  200  Meilen  von  Pittsburgh  entfernten  Crawford 
County,  Ohio,  nicht  weit  von  der  jetzigen  Stadt  Bucyriis? 
Dieses  Land,  welches  von  der  Bundesregierung  den  einzelnen 
Staaten  unter  besonderen  "Patents"  zum  Verkaufe  iiberlassen 
wurde,  konnte  man  fiir  den  festen  Preis  von  $1.25  den  Morgen 
kaufen;  demnach  bezahlte  Lenau  fiir  400  Morgen  die  geringe 
Summe  von  $500.  Da  der  Kaufer  nicht  eher  in  das  voile 
Besitzungsrecht  eingesetzt  wurde,  bis  der  President  der  Vereinig- 
sten  Staaten  ihm  eine  mit  dem  Regierungssiegel  versehene  Ver- 
kaufsurkunde  zuschickte,  so  zog  sich  der  Abschluss  des  Geschafts 
oft  mehrere  Monate  hinaus,^  nnd  dieses  war  wohl  die  Ursache, 
warum  Lenau  seinen  Aufenthalt  auf  etliche  Monate  in  der 
Nachbarschaft  des  Landereiamtes  verlangerte.  Kein  Ort  war 
fiir  einen  langeren  Aufenthalt  geeigneter  als  das  zwischen  New 
Lisbon  und  Pittsburgh  an  einer  guten  Landstrasse  gelegene 
Economy.  Die  treuherzige  Freundlichkeit  der  biederen  Schwa- 
ben,  das  kraftige  deutsche  Mittagessen,  bei  welchem  ein  vor- 
trefflicher   Wein   serviert   wurde,*   die    Nahe   der   vor  kurzem 

gewonnenen  Freunde  und  der  Grossstadt das  waren  Mo- 

mente,  die  bei  Lenau  schwer  in  die  Wagschale  fielen,  und  diese 
bestimmten  ihn  wohl  schon  beim  ersten  Besuche,  sich  auf 
langere  Zeit  in  Economy  niederzulassen.  In  dem  freundlichen 
Gasthaus,  das  von  einem  Mitgliede  der  Gemeinde  eigens  fiir 
die  Herberge  der  Besucher  gehalten  wurde,^  brachte  Lenau  den 
Herbst,  das  Friihjahr  und  einen  grossen  Teil  des  Winters  zu, 
und  diese  Zeit  blieb  nicht  so  bedentungslos  fiir  den  Dichter  und 
Menschen  Lenau,  wie  man  aus  dem  einzigen  Brief,  den  er  von 


'  Nikolaus  Lenau.    Lebensgeschichtliche  Uinrisse  von  Anastasius  Griin,  p.  39. 
■•'  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  p.  210;  Brief  von  H,  A.  Rattermann  vom  17.  Dec.  1894. 
^  Vgl.  Dudeus  Reisebericht,  p.  65. 

*  Herzog  Bernhardt.     Bericht  uber  Economy  I,  Kap.  XXIV,  pp.  158-170. 
^  K.  Knortz,     Die  christliche  koimnunistiche  Kolonie  der  Rappisten,  p.  25  ff. 


40 


Lenau  in  Amerika. 


hieraiis  an  Schurz  schrieb,  schliessen  moclite.  AUe  Zeichen 
deuten  darauf  hin,  dass  diese  Zeit  mit  zu  den  pragnantesten 
seines  Lebens  gehorte.  Es  kann  leider  dariiber  nichts  mehr 
von  den  aus  jener  Zeit  nocb  lebenden  Mitgliedern  der  Harnio- 
nisten  ermittelt  werden.  Herr  Duss,  der  gegenwartig  an  der 
Spitze  der  Gemeinde  steht,  hat  auf  mein  Ansuchen  schon  lan- 
gere  Zeit  dieser  Angelegenheit  besondere  Aufmerksamkeit 
geschenkt ;  es  blieben  jedoch  bis  jetzt  alle  Nachforschungen 
fruchtlos/  Die  Wenigen,  welche  noch  leben,  sind  hoch  betagt 
und  so  geistesschwach,  dass  man  nichts  aus  ihnen  heraus- 
bringen  kann,  obgleich  sie  sich  des  Dichters  noch  gut  erin- 
nern  konnen.  Ausser  dem  oben  erwahnten  Briefe  besitzen 
wir  die  in  Economy  entstandenen  Gedichte  und  etliche  kurze 
Aufzeichnungen  von  Lenaus  Biographen,  sowie  zwei  diirftige, 
aber  auf  sicherer  tjberlieferung  beruhende  Berichte  von  Besu- 
chern  in  Economy,  aus  denen  wir  uns  ein  Bild  von  des  Dichters 
Leben  in  den  wesentlichsten  Ziigen  entwerfen  konnen.  Unter 
den  Berichten  ist  bei  weitem  der  in  der  lebensvollen  Erzahlung 
GeVdutert'^  von  Louise  Zehnder-Weil  enthaltene  der  wichti- 
gere.  In  dieser  Erzahlung  giebt  die  Verfasserin  uns  unter  dem 
Pseudonym  "  Barbele  "  einen  Bericht  von  ihren  eigenen  Erleb- 
nissen  unter  den  Rappisten.  Sie  wohnte  wahrend  ihres  Aufent- 
haltes  daselbst  im  Hause  des  Herrn  Becker,  dem  der  Gemein- 
derat  nach  Rapps  im  Herbste  1847  erfolgtem  Tode  zusammen 
mit  Vater  Henrici  die  Leitung  der  Colonic  iibertragen  hatte,^ 
und,  was  sie  iiber  Lenau  erzahlt,  beruht  auf  Mitteilungen,  die 
ihr  Katherine,  die  Schwester  von  Herrn  Becker,  machte.  Diese 
Dame  stand  dem  Dichter  naher  und  besuchte  ihn  wahrend  einer 
Krankheit ;  auch  las  er  ihr  zuweilen  seine  Gedichte  vor.*  Ob- 
wohl  Frau  Zehnder-Weil  im  Vorwort  zu  ihrer  Erzahlung  dafiir 
biirgt,  dass  sie  nur  Thatsachen  geschildert  habe  und  bei  der 
Harmoniegesellschaft  es  nicht  einmal  notig  fand,  die  Namen  zu 


^  Brief  von  Herrn  Duss  vom  6.  Feb.  1895. 

2  Stuttgart  (Verlag  von  D.  Gundert)  1S91. 

'  Karl  Knortz.     Kolonie  der  Rappisten,  p.  19. 

*  Gel'dutert  von  Louise  Zehnder-Weil,  pp.  223,  247. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  41 

verschieben,  so  darf  man  nicht  ausser  Acht  lassen,  dass  sie  die 
Begebenheiten  in  ein  hochst  dicliterisches  Gewand  einkleidet 
und  sich  in  manchen  Einzelheiten  grosse  Ubertreibungen  zu 
Schiilden  kommen  lasst.  So  erzahlt  sie  z.  B.,  dass  Lenau,  dem 
die  Harmonisten  eine  Zeit  lang  in  herzlicher  Nachstenliebe  Auf- 
nahme  gewahrten,  nachher  in  dentschen  nnd  amerikanischen 
Blattern  die  boshaftesten  Artikel  iiber  die  Harmoniegesellschaft 
schrieb  und  dieselbe  nach  alien  Seiten  hin  lacherlich  machte. 
Es  ist  hochst  unwahrscheinlich,  dass  Lenau  es  je  so  weit  im 
Englischen  brachte,  wie  die  Verfasserin  vermutet ;  er  hielt  es 
auch  weit  unter  der  Wiirde  eines  Dichters,  der  auf  der  Hohe 
der  Menschheit  steht,  Einsendungen  fiir  Tages  und  Monatsblat- 
ter  zu  liefern  ;  nur  ein  einziges  Mai  schrieb  er  eine  Recension 
fiir  eine  deutsche  Zeitung  iiber  Georg  Keils  Lyra  und  Harfe} 
Den  andern  Bericht  liefert  Karl  Knortz,  der  bei  Gelegenheit 
eines  Besuches  in  Economy  sich  mit  Vater  Henrici  iiber  den 
Dichter  unterhielt.^  Wenn  wir  auch  an  der  Hand  dieser  tjber- 
lieferung  nicht  im  Einzelnen  dem  nach  aussen  hin  weniger 
ereignisvoUen  Leben  des  Dichters  folgen  konnen,  so  bieten  sie 
uns  doch  manche  Anhaltspunkte,  wodurch  wir  einen  klaren  Blick 
in  die  Zustande  seines  inneren  Lebens — seine  Einsamkeit,  Schwer- 
mut  und  Vertiefung  in  faustische  Probleme — gewinnen  konnen. 
Obwohl  ihm  anfanglich  das  Leben  unter  den  schlichten 
Rappisten  zusagte,  so  wurde  er  sich  doch  bald  des  grossen 
Abstandes  zwischen  seinen  Idealen  und  denen  dieser  Wirklich- 
keitsmenschen  schmerzlich  bewusst  Das  Leben  in  dieser  com- 
munistischen  Gemeinde,  wo  es  keine  Herren,  aber  auch  keine 
Diener  gab,  wo  alles  das  Geprage  niichternen  Fleisses  und 
strenger  Zucht  trug,  musste  einem  Menschen  von  Lenaus 
Schlag,  der  sich  an  ein  Leben  siisser  Traumerei  und  ununter- 
brochenen  Miissiggangs  gewohnt  hatte,  bald  verleidet  sein.  In 
dem  Griinder  der  Gemeinde,  Vater  Rapp,  einem  aus  Ipfingen, 
Wiirttemberg  gebiirtigen  Bauernsohn,  ward  das  Dichten  und 
Trachten  der  ganzen  Colonic  gleichsam  verkorpert.     Er  glaubte 

^  Schurz,  I,  p.  260  f. 

^  Karl  Knortz.     Aus  der  transatlantischen  Gcscllschaft,  p.  184. 


42  Lciian  in  Amerika. 

namlich,  dass  nachst  der  Religion  schwere  geregelte  Arbeit 
allein  im  Stande  sei,  dem  Menschen  den  inneren  Frieden  wieder 
zu  geben.  Uni  dieses  zu  veranscliaulichen,  erwahne  icli  eine 
kleine  Episode,  die  sicli  ziir  selben  Zeit  zutrug,  als  Lenau  sicli 
in  Economy  aufhielt.  Ein  wiirttemberger  Theologe  aus  dem 
Tiibinger  Stifte  suchte  die  klosterliche  Einsamkeit  der  Harmo- 
nisten  auf  in  der  Hoffnung,  den  schon  lange  verlornen  Seelen- 
frieden  wieder  zu  erlangen.  Nachdem  er  dem  alten  Rapp  seine 
innere  Unruhe  und  Seelenkampfe  eingehend  gescliildert  hatte, 
erklarte  der  Alte  dem  Studenten,  dass  er  wohl  wisse,  dass  mit 
den  deutschen  Gelehrten  nicht  viel  anzufangen  sei,  doch  werde 
er,  auf  das  Versprechen  unbedingten  Gehorsams  bin,  dem  um 
Frieden  bittenden  zu  helfen  suchen.  Der  Theologe  versprach 
ibn,  und  da  Hess  Vater  Rapp  einen  Diener  rufen  und  sagte  ihm: 
"  Dieser  junge  Herr  sucht  den  inneren  Frieden;  gieb  ihm  eine 
Hacke  und  fiihre  ihn  aufs  Feld  hinaus,  damit  er  Kartoffeln 
haufle."  ^  Wie  dieser  Geist  der  Arbeitsamkeit  sich  im  Haupte 
der  Gemeinde  kund  that,  so  waltete  er  auch  in  alien  Gliedern. 
Ihnen  galten  die  praktischen  Ziele,  welche  die  Gemeinde  ver- 
folgte,  als  heilig  und  den  Fleiss,  der  im  Dienste  des  Nutzens 
stand,  sah  man  als  den  Inbegriff  aller  Tugenden  an.  Gleich 
am  Anfang  hatte  man  deshalb  alle  gesellschaftlichen  Vergnii- 
gungen  und  zerstreuende  Geniisse,  womit  die  Zeit  vertandelt 
werden  konnte,  streng  untersagt.  Auf  Lenau,  dem  schon  der 
Fleiss  der  rheinischen  Bauern  und  Weingartner  formlich 
schrecklich  war,  machten  diese  Menschen  einen  fatalen  Ein- 
druck."  Das  Urteil,  das  er  nachher  iiber  alle  deutschen  Einge- 
wanderten  fallt,  wurde  wohl  grosstenteils  an  den  Bauern  der 
Rapp'schen  Colonic  gebildet.  Da  nur  sieben  Jahre  verflossen 
waren,  seit  die  Colonisten  den  Boden  fiir  die  neue  Ansiedlung 
am  rechten  Ufer  des  Ohio  aufgebrochen  batten,  so  wurde  Lenau 
die  Gelegenheit  gewahrt,  eine  Ansiedlung  in  ihrem  primitiven 
Zustand  zu  beobachten,  wie  er  sic  vor  seiner  Abreise  gewiinscht 
hatte,^  und  er  konnte  mit  eigner  Hand  manche  Rieseneiche  des 


'  Personliche  Mitteilung  von  Herrn  William  Nast  D.D.  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

^  Brief e  Lenaus  an  Entilie  v.  Reinbeck,  p.  32. 

^  Brief  an  Mayer  vom  13.  Marz  1832.     Schurz  I,  p.  158. 


G.  A.  Miiljinger.  ^x 

Urwaldes  fallen.  Aber  ganz  anders  war  es  ihm  zii  Mut,  als  er 
einige  Monate  unter  den  Hinterwaldlern  zugebracht  hatte.  Nur 
Worte  des  Bedauerns  hatte  er  fiir  die  "  ausgebrannten  Men- 
schen  in  ihren  ausgebrannten  Waldern  ;  "  ^  sie  schienen  ihm  in 
einer  sonderbaren  Heiterkeit  zu  leben,  die  ans  Unheimliche 
streifte.-  Unter  diesen  Menschen,  die  in  der  Schule  der  Wirk- 
lichkeit  eine  Niichternheit  entfalteten,  die  dem  romantischen 
Dichter  furchtbar  erschien,  konnte  es  ihm  nicht  lange  behagen. 
Wie  vor  einer  Rache  iibenden  Furie  war  er  vor  der  Wirklich- 
keit  des  Lebens  iiber  den  Ocean  geflohen,  urn  seine  Phantasie, 
ungestort  vom  ausseren  lycben,  mit  einem  ungeheuren  Vorrat 
der  herrlichsten  Naturbilder  zu  bereichern  und  an  einer  "  Fiille 
gottlicher  Auftritte  der  jungfraulichen  und  unberiihrten  Ur- 
wiilder  "  zu  beleben.  Aber  hier  hatte  ihn  nun  erst  die  Wirk- 
lichkeit,  wie  eine  rachende  Nemisis,  ereilt  und  starrte  ihn  an, 
wie  noch  nie  zuvor.  Die  Natur  kam  ihm  vor,  wie  eine  grosse 
Wiiste,  und  Amerika  selbst  als  ein  grosses  Nebelland,  in  dem 
der  Liebe  leise  die  Adern  geoffnet  werden,  und  sie  sich  unbe- 
merkt  verblutet.^  Unter  den  nlichternen  Wirklichkeitsmenschen 
fuhlte  er  sich  hochst  ungliicklich,  er  suchte  die  Einsamkeit  auf 
und  zog  sich  ganz  in  sich  zuriick.  "  Auf  einer  einsamen  Bank 
am  Ohio,"  erzahlt  Frau  Zehnder-Weil,  "sass  er  oft  stundenlang 
und  starrte  in  die  klaren  Fluten  des  Flusses  hinab,  dann  redete 
er  mit  begeisterten  Worten  zu  den  Flussnixen  und  breitete 
seine  Arme  nach  den  Damen  aus,  welche  ihm  seine  reiche  und 
aufgeregte  Phantasie  im  Wasser  vorspiegelte,  oder  er  stand  an 
einem  Baum  gelehnt  und  sprach  in  Prosa  und  Poesie  in  schwar- 
merisch  verliebten,  aber  wohlgesetzten  Worten  zu  Luna,  seiner 
Herzensfreundin,  die  allein  imstande  sei,  ihn  zu  verstehen,  seine 
grossen  Ideen  zu  fassen  und  mit  ihm  zu  fiihlen."*  Nebst 
Spaziergangen  beschrankte  sich  seine  Thatigkeit  auf  Dichten 
und  Geigenspiel.     Durch  das  Letztere  wurde  der  Hausknecht 

'  Lenaus  Brief e  an  Emilie  von  Reinbeck  u.  s.  w.,  p.  32. 

*  Brief  an  Joseph  Klemm  vom  6.  Marz  1833.     Schurz  i,  p.  206. 
3  Lenaus  Briefe  an  Emilie  v.  Reinbeck  u.  s.  w.,  p.  32. 

*  Gelautert  von  Luise  Zehnder-Weil,  p.  246. 


44  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

im  Gasthause  zu  Economy  so  bezaubert,  dass  er  morgens  nicht 
eher  einheizen  wollte,  bis  Lenau  ihm  ein  Stiickchen  auf  der 
Geige  vorgespielt  hatte.^  In  dieser  Einsamkeit,  die  er  in  seinen 
Briefen  eine  "  wahre "  nennt,  iiberfiel  ilin  der  Damon  der 
Schwermut  mit  solcher  Heftigkeit,  dass  selbst  das  Geigenspiel, 
das  ihm  sonst  Linderung  verschaffte,  den  Schmerz  und  die 
Seelenangst,  die  ihn  belasteten,  nicht  verscheuchen  konnte. 
"  Eines  Morgens,"  teilt  Frau  Zehnder-Weil  mit,  "  brachte  er  die 
ganze  Harmoniegesellschaft  in  grosse  Aufregung.  Er  war 
plotzlich  verschwunden  und  kehrte  nicht  wieder.  Man  suchte 
ihn  allerorts,  denn  weit  konnte  er  nicht  gegangen  sein,  da  er 
nicht  einmal  seinen  Hut  mitgenommen,  aber  nirgends  war  er  zu 
finden.  Endlich  nach  drei  Tagen  streifte  man  in  den  Bergen 
umher,  und  fand  ihn  auf  einer  hohen  Felsenkante,  welche  eine 
prachtvolle  Fernsicht  bot,  viele  Meilen  von  hier  im  Gebirge. 
Er  lag  an  einem  jahen  Abhange  in  todtahnlicher  Erstarrung, 
aus  der  man  ihn  erst  nach  langer  Zeit  und  mit  Anwendung  aller 
nur  erdenklichen  Mittel  ins  Leben  zuriickzurufen  vermochte. 
Eine  voile  Woche  musste  er  in  Folge  der  grossen  Erschopfung 
das  Bett  hiiten  und  wir  fiirchteten  fiir  sein  Leben.  Er  gestand 
spater,  dass  er  drei  Tage  oline  irgend  welche  Nahrung  zuge- 
bracht  habe.  Ich  besuchte  ihn  mehrmals  und  brachte  ihm 
kleine  Erfrischungen,  da  sagte    ich    einmal    zu    ihm  :     "  Aber 

Lenau  " er  fiihrte  nahmlich  diesen  Namen  auch  bei  uns 

"  warum  hast  Du  Dein  Leben  so  nutzlos  preissgegeben  ?  dies 
war  sehr  unrecht  von  Dir ;  man  muss  die  hochste  Gabe  Gottes 
hoch  schatzen  und  zu  erhalten  suchen,"  Er  sah  mich  lachelnd 
an  und  erwiederte  :  "  Liebe  Katherine,  und  es  war  sehr  unrecht, 
mich  wieder  in's  Leben  zuriickzurufen,  aus  dem  ich  so  gerne 
geschieden  ware,  da  es  mir  so  gar  keine  Befriedigung  gewahrt. 
Ich  war  lange  umhergestreift  und  hatte  endlich  jenes  traute  Ruhe- 
platzchen  gefunden,  wo  ich  in  die  weite,  weite  Feme  blicken  und 
siiss  traumen  konnte  von  andern,  besseren  Welten.  Dann  schlief 
ich  ein  und  es  war  grausam,  mich  wieder  in  diese  schlimme 
Welt  zuriickzurufen,  an  welche  mich  nichts  fesselt  und  in  der 

^  Schurz  I,  203. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  45 

icli  ein  armer  Fremdling  bin.  Ihr  meintet  es  gut,  aber  besser 
ware  es  gewesen,  ich  ware  hienieden  nimmer  aiifgewacht."  "  Ja  " 
fiigte  er  bei,  "  konnte  ich  den  Frieden  erringen,  der  aus  deinen 
Augen  leuchtet,  dann  ware  es  anders  !  "  ^  Wie  wunderlich  auch 
diese  Mitteilung  klingen  mag,  so  geht  sie  doch  ohne  Zweifel 
auf  ein  wirkliches  Erlebnis  des  Dichters  zuriick.  In  dem  Ge- 
dicht  "Der  Urwald,"  das  erst  nacli  der  Heimreise  fiir  den 
Friihlings  Almanach  von  1836  gediclitet  wurde,  aber  auf  den 
Aufenthalt  im  Urwald  zuriick  geht,  schildert  der  Dichter  ein 
Abenteuer,  das  in  alien  Einzelheiten  an  Frau  Zehnder-Weils 
Bericht  erinnert  und  wohl  mit  demselben  identisch  ist,  mit  der 
einen  Ausnahme,  dass  Lenau  im  Gedicht  seine  Erlebnisse  im 
Rahmen  eines  Ritts  im  Herbste  durch  den  erstorbenen  Urwald 
Amerikas  darstellt : 

"  In  jenem  Lande  bin  ich  einst  geritten 
Den  Weg,  der  einen  finstern  Wald  durchschnitten, 
Die  Sonne  war  geneigt  im  Untergang, 
Nur  leise  strich  der  Wind,  kein  Vogel  sang. 
Da  stieg  ich  ab,  mein  Ross  am  Quell  zu  tranken, 
Mich  in  den  BHck  der  Wildniss  zu  versenken. 

Und  lange  lag  ich  auf  des  Waldes  Grund, 
Das  Haupt  gedriickt  in's  alte,  tiefe  Laub, 
Und  starrte,  trauriger  Gedanken  Raub, 
Dem  Weltgeheimniss  in  den  finstern  Schlund." 

Wie  auch  in  Zehnder-Weils  Erzahlung,  hangt  Lenau  hier  den 
traurigen  Reflektionen  nach  und  vergisst  sich  ganz  selber  in 
seiner  verzweifelten  Stimmung,  bis  er  sich  dem  Tode  nah  fiihlte. 

"So  lag  ich  auf  dem  Grunde  schwer  beklommen 
Dem  Tode  nah,  wie  nie  zuvor,  gekommen  ; 
Bis  ich  die  diirren  Blatter  rauschen  horte, 
Und  mich  der  Huftritt  meines  Pferdes  storte  ; 
Es  schritt  heran  zu  mir,  als  wollt'  es  mahnen 
Mich  an  die  Dammerung  und  meine  Bahnen. 
Ich  aber  rief :   "  Ist's  auch  der  Miihe  wert, 
Noch  einmal  zu  besteigen  dich,  mein  Pferd  ?' '  ^ 

'  Reclam'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  81. 

"^  Gelautert  von  I,uise  Zehnder-Weil,  pp.  247,  248. 


46  Lenaii  in  Amerika. 

Aus  dem  eben  erwahnten  Erlebnisse  des  Dichters  konnen  wir 
tins  einen  Begriff  machen,  in  welclien  triiben  Zustand  seine 
Seele  in  dieser  grenzenlosen  Einsamkeit  geriet.  Ganz  sich 
selbst  iiberlassen,  oline  Freunde  und  Aufmunternng,  war  er 
gewohnt,  die  Sonde  so  lange  in  den  krankhaften  Punkt  seiner 
Seele  hinabzulassen,  bis  sein  Geist  die  Herrschaft  iiber  sich 
selbst  verlor.  Den  psychologischen  Process,  den  sein  '  Ich '  in 
dieser  tranrigen  Zeit  durclimachte,  hat  der  Dichter  spater  in 
der  letzten  Scene  im  Faust  Fausts  Tod  veranschaulicht.  Wie 
iiberhaupt  Lenau  im  Faust  nur  Selbsterlebtes  schildert,  so 
diirfte  audi  wenigstens  die  Conception  dieser  Scene  insbesondere 
auf  den  Seelenzustand  wahrend  dieser  Zeit  sich  beziehen. 
Gewiss  ist  es,  dass  die  schwarze  Brut  faustischer  Gedanken,  mit 
denen  er  sich  schon  vor  und  auf  der  Reise  nach  Amerika 
beschaftigte,  ihn  ganz  in  Besitz  nahm,  seinen  Geist  umflatterte 
und  alles  Licht  absperrte.  Der  erste  Schritt  in  diesem  Process 
ist  die  Selbstbespiegelung : 

"  Wolan,  mein  Herz,  in  dieser  Stunde 
Will  ich  in  Dein  Geheimniss  schauen 
Und  greifen  tief  in  deine  Wunde, 
Halt  fest  und  duld  'es  ohne  Grauen." 

Aber  die  Selbstbespiegelung  und  Zerfaserung  erfiillten  ihn 
mit  Grauen  vor  sich  selber  : 

"  Mich  in  mir  selbst  wollt  ich  zusammenfassen, 
Mein  Ich,  das  hohle  finstere  Karge, 
Umschauert  mich  gleich  einem  Sarge. "  ^ 

Er  ergreift  die  Flucht  vor  sich  selber,  aber  findet  nirgends  die 
ersehnte  Ruhe ;  auch  die  Einsamkeit  der  Natur  vermag  ihm 
nicht  den  Schmerz  zu  lindern,  sie  steigert  ihn  nur.  Endlich 
mochte  er  aus  der  Welt  entfliehen ;  er  trachtet  nach  Vernich- 
tung  und  Untergang.  Auf  eine  solche  Stimmung  geht  das 
Gedicht  "Der  Urwald"  zuriick.  Aber  iiberhaupt  alles,  was  er 
in  Amerika  gesehen — Meer,  Wald,  Menschen,  Niagara,  Amerika 
— werden  ihm  Symbole  des  Untergangs. 


^  Reclam'sclie  Ausgabe,  p.  451  flf. 


G.  A.  Midfinger.  47 

Wenn  er  audi  niclit  in  der  triiben  Einsamkeit  von  Economy 
^ine  Gelegenheit  fand,  seine  Phantasie  zu  schulen,  so  kam  ihm 
doch  hier  die  vor  der  Abreise  erwartete  Gelegenheit,  sein  Herz 
durch  und  durcli  in  Sehnsucht  nach  den  Geliebten  zu  macerieren 
und  das  Gliick  des  Gemiits  fiir  ein  gutes  Gedicht  daran  zu  geben. 
In  dieser  Gemiitsverfassung  schreibt  er  an  Emilie  Reinbeck  in 
Stuttgart :  "  Ich  weiss  nicht  warum  ich  immer  eine  solche  Sehn- 
sucht nach  Amerika  hatte.  Doch  ich  weiss  es.  Johannes  hat 
in  der  Wiiste  getauft.  Mich  zog  es  auch  in  die  Wiiste,  und  hier 
ist  in  meinem  Innern  wirklich  etwas  wie  Taufe  vorgef alien." 
Als  noch  dazu  ein  iiberaus  kalter  Winter  hereinbrach  und  ihn  in 
■die  Stube  bannte,  fiihlte  er  sich  von  aller  Welt  verlassen.  Am 
Schlusse  desselben  Briefes  meldet  er  :  "  In  dieser  grossen  langen 
Einsamkeit  ohne  Freund,  ohne  Natur,  ohne  irgend  welche 
Freude,  war  ich  wohl  darauf  hingewiesen,  stille  Einkehr  zu 
halten  in  mich  selber,  und  manchen  heilsamen  Entschluss  zu 
fassen  fiir  meine  ferneren  Tage.  Als  Schule  der  Entbehrung 
ist  Amerika  wirklich  sehr  zu  empfehlen.  Wenn  so  ein  langer, 
einsamer  Winter  obendrein  gewiirzt  ist  mit  einem  heftigen 
rheumatischen  Leiden  und  schlaflosen  Nachten,  wie  er  mir  war, 
dann  miisste  man  doch  sehr  verstockten  Wesens  sein,  ware  man 
im  Friihjahr  nicht  ein  wenig  verniinftiger,  als  man  im  Herbste 
gewesen."  ^  Die  Einsamkeit  dieser  Wiiste  war  aber  dennoch,  wie 
die  Zeugen  und  die  daraus  hervorgegangenen  Gedichte  besta- 
tigen,  Lenaus  Produktion  wesentlich  forderlich.  Vater  Henrici 
erzahlte  Karl  Knortz,  dass  Lenau  damals  zahlreiche  Gedichte 
machte,  und,  wenn  er  eins  vollendet  hatte,  las  er  es  ihm  gewohn- 
lich  vor,  und  da  Henrici  an  Lenau  eine  starke  satirische  Ader 
bemerkte,  so  riet  er  ihm  derselben  nicht  zu  grossen  Spielraum 
zu  lassen,  da  er  dadurch  leicht  Unheil  austiften  konnte,  ohne  es 
zu  beabsichtigen.^  Die  Bemerkung  iiber  Lenaus  satirische  Aus- 
falle  wird  kaum  einen  Grund  haben,  sie  konnte  hochstens  auf 
das  Gedicht  "  Protest"  und  "  Des  Teufels  Lied  vom  Aristokra- 


'  Lenaus  Brief e  an  Emilie  v.  Reinbeck  u.  s.  w.,  p.  32. 
^  Aus  der  transatlantisdien  Cesellschaft,  p.  1S4. 


48  Lcnaii  in  Amcrika. 

ten"  und  vielleicht  nocli  sonstige  poleniische  Gedichte  im 
Nachlasse  Beziig  liaben.' 

Die  Gedichte,  welche  Lenau  im  Briefe  von  New  Lisbon 
nnterm  5.  Marz  erwalint,  iind  die  nicht  sclion  im  Briefe  aus 
Baltimore  genannt  wiirden,  sind  :  "  Die  Heidelberger  Ruine  ;" 
"  Die  Abscliiedsrose  "  (Die  Rose  der  Erinnerung);  "  Der  Post- 
knecht"  (Der  Postillion);  "An  die  Ultraliberalen  in  Deutsch- 
land"  (Protest);  "  Waldestrost ; "  "Der  Unentbelirliclie ;" 
"  Primula  veris  ;"  "  Aliasverus,  der  ewige  Jude  ;  "  "  Die  schone 
Sennerin"  (in  vier  Gedichten)  und  Abmahnung."^ 

Die  poetischen  Wunderlichkeiten,  iiber  die  sich  Kerner  vor 
Lenaus  Abreise  belustigte,  dauerten  auch  in  Economy  fort  und 
erregten  unter  denen,  die  ihm  naher  standen,  allgemeine  Heiter- 
keit.  Vater  Henrici  erzahlte  Karl  Knortz  dariiber :  Lenaus 
Diener  wusste  nicht  genug  von  den  abenteuerlichen  Planen 
seines  Herrn  zu  erzahlen  und  musste  sich  iiber  dessen  drollige 
Einfalle  oft  fast  krank  lachen.^ 

Einen  solchen  abenteuerlichen  Plan  fiihrte  Lenau  ungefahr 
um  Weinachten  in  dem  iiberaus  kalten  Winter  von  1832-33  aus, 
als  er  sich  im  Schlitten  auf  dem  Weg  durch  den  frostigen  Ur- 
wald  nach  der  etliche  hundert  Meilen  weit  entfernten  Farm  in 
Crawford  County,  Ohio,  begab.*  Dieses  unbesonnene  Wagestiick 
trug  viel  dazu  bei,  seine  Gesundheit  dauernd  zu  schwachen ;  er 
zog  sich  dadurch  ein  rheumatisches  Leiden  zu,  das  spater  fiir 
ihn  die  schlimmsten  Folgen  hatte.  Auf  dieser  Reise  kehrte  er 
eines  Abends,  starr  vom  Urwaldsfroste,  in  einem  Blockhause  ein, 
wo  eine  primitive  Herberge  von  einem  Hinterwaldler  fiir  die 
durchreisenden  Ansiedler  und  Abenteurer  gehalten  wurde. 
Das  Gedicht  "Das  Blockhaus,"^  das  zuerst  im  Musenalmanach 
1838   abgedruckt  wurde   und  wohl    erst  nach   der    Heimreise, 


^  Reclam'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  321,  fF. 

^  Nik.  Lenaus  Briefe  an  E->nilie  v.  Reinbeck  u.  s.  zu.,  p.  33;  vgl.  aiich  Schurz 
I,  p.  206. 

^  Aus  der  tratisatlantischett  Gesellschafi,  p.  184. 

*  Aus  einem  Briefe  (17.  Dez.  1894)  von  Herrn  H.  A.  Ratterman  entnehme  ich 
dies. 

^  Reclam'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  84. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  49 

nicht,  wie  der  Deutsche  Pionier  angiebt,  am  Tage  nach  der 
Ankimft  auf  seiner  "  Farm  "  entstand/  entlialt  die  Erinnerungen 
des  Dichters  an  diesen  Abend.  Gegen  die  exaltierten  und  iiber- 
schwanglichen  Menschen,  unter  denen  Lenau  in  Schwaben  und 
Osterreich  gelebt  hatte,  stach  das  demokratisch-niichterne  Ent- 
gegenkommen  des  iirwiichsigen  Gastwirtes  sehr  ab,  das  er  in 
folgenden  Worten  beschreibt  : 

"  Der  (Wirt)  empfing  mich  kalt,  auf  freundliche  Weise, 
Sprach  gelassen,  mit  ungekriimmtem  RUcken  : 
'  Guten  Abend  !'  und  bot  mir  seine  Hand, 
Gleichsam  guten  Empfangs  ein  leblos  Pfand, 
Denn  er  riihrte  sich  nicht,  die  meine  zu  driicken. 
Lesen  konnt'  ich  in  seinen  festen  Ziigen 
Seinen  lang  und  treu  bewahrten  Entschluss  : 
Auch  mit  keinem  Fingerdrucke  zu  liigen  ; 
Sicher  und  wohl  ward  mir  bei  seinem  Gruss. 
Wenig  eilte  der  Mann,  mich  zu  bedienen, 
Doch  nicht  fand  ich  die  Kost  so  diirr  und  mager 
Wie  sein  Wort,  ich  sollte  bei  ihm  ein  Lager 
Finden,  weicher  und  warmer  als  seine  Mienen."  ^ 
Wer  sich  aber  das  wunderliche  Auftreten  Eenaus  im  Hinter- 
walde  vergegenwartigt,  dem  wird  das  kiihle  Verhalten  des  Wirts 
begreiflich,  zumal    auslandische    Gliicksritter   und    Abenteurer 
diese  entlegenen  Gasthauser  oft    heimsuchten    und    den    Wirt 
misstrauisch  und  riicksichtslos  stimmten.     Als  Lenau  herein- 
trat,  fiel  des  Wirts  Sohn  erstaunt  iiber  sein  wunderliches  Gepack 
her ;  auch  diese  Neugier  wird  jeder,  der  iiber  Lenaus  Gepack 
orientiert   ist,    dem    Kinde    gerne    verzeihen.       Diesbeziiglich 
berichtet  Lenaus  Freund  Evers,  der  eine  Reise  mit  ihm  nach 
Stuttgart  machte,  wo  sich  der  Dichter  nur  8  Wochen  aufhalten 
wollte :  "Lenau  hatte  21  Piecen  mit,  worunter  zwei  Koffer  mit 
Biichern,    eine    Menge    kleinerer    Kasten,  Necessaires,  Stocke^ 
Schirme.     Kurz,  woran  er  gewohnt  war,  das  musste  auch  auf  die 
Reise  mit."      Als  Lenau  sich  auf  die  Reise  nach  Amerika  vor- 


^  Lenau  hatte  dieses  Gedicht  sicherlich  auch  im  Briefe  an  Emilie  Reinbeck 
(vgl.  Nikolaics  Lenaus  Briefe  an  Emilie  von  Reinbeck  u.  s.  zc'.,  p.  33)  erwahnt, 
wenn  es  auf  seiner  "  Farm  "  entstanden  ware. 

^  Siehe  Gedicht  "  Das  Blockhaus,"  Cotta'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  165. 

4 


50  Lcjiaii  in  Amerika. 

bereitete,  amiisierten  sich  die  Stuttgarter  Freunde  nicht  wenig- 
liber  die  Unzahl  von  Ziindhiitchen,  die  er  mitnahm,  urn  die 
wilden  Thiere  in  der  Wildnis  zu  erlegen/ 

Im  Gedicht  "  Das  Blockhaus"  ^  berichtet  Lenau  weiter,  dass, 
als  das  englische  "  Thalergelispel "  schwieg,  er  Uhland  hervor 
holte  und  bei  einer  weitgewanderten  Flasche  Wein  im  Halb- 
dunkel  der  vom  Herdfeuer  diirftig  beleuchteten  Stube  Uhlands 
"  Held  Harald  "  las,  bis  er  die  Elf  en  draussen  im  Walde  scliwar- 
men  horte.  Hin  und  wieder  legt  er  ein  Scheit  Holz  auf  das 
Feuer  und  kniipft  daran  folgende  Reflektion,  in  der  er  seiner 
triibseligen  Stimmung  Luft  machte: 

"  Bin  ich  selber  nur  ein  verbrennend  Scheit? 
Und  wie  ich  mich  warme  am  Eichenstamme, 
Warmt  sich  vielleicht  ein  unsichlbarer  Gast 
Heimlich  an  meiner  zehrenden  Lebensflamme, 
Schiirend  und  fachend  meine  Gedankenhast  ?" 
Also  tuhrt'  ich  mit  mir  ein  wirres  Plaudern  ; 
(Hoffnungsloser  Kummer  ist  ein  Phantast), 
Und  ich  blickte  mich  um — und  musste  schaudern.'* 

In  dieser  krankhaften  Gemiitsverfassung  war  Lenau  wenig 
geeignet,  den  ausseren  Kampf  um  eine  Existenz  als  Colonist  in 
der  Wildnis  Chios,  wohin  er  sich  jetzt  begab,  zu  bestehen. 
Er  hielt  es  auch  nicht  lange  aus.  Herr  H.  R.  Rattermann,  der 
ehrwiirdige  Redakteur  des  deutschen  Pioniers,  hat  mir  giitigst 
die  Erlaubnis  gegeben,  das,  was  er  dariiber  erfuhr  und  aufzeich- 
nete,  hier  mitzuteilen.  Im  Auftrage  des  deutschen  Pionier- 
vereines  bereiste  er  die  Staaten  Ohio  und  Pennsylvanien,  und 
hat  sich  dadurch  verdient  gemacht,  dass  er  an  Ort  und  Stelle 
die  noch  erhaltenen  Urkunden  genau  untersuchte  und  bei 
zuverlassigen  Nachbarn  und  Freunden  Erkundigungen  iiber 
Personen,  deren  Geschichte  er  erforschen  wollte,  einzog.  Im 
April  1874  besuchte  er  Lenaus  ehemalige  "  Farm  "  in  Crawford 
Co.  Ohio.     Das  Land  beschrieb  er  mir  als  ausserst  fruchtbar, 


'  Lenaus  Brief e  an  einen  Freund  hrsg.  von  Karl  Mayer,  p.  65.  Stuttgart  1853. 
''■  Cotta'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  165. 
^  Cotta'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  167. 


G.  A.  Muljinger.  ci 

ziim  Teil  noch  mit  einem  Wald  von  Ahorn  und  Eichen  bedekt 
und  in  einer  reizenden  Gegend  gelegen.  Ein  alter  Ansiedler  in 
jener  Gegend,  Namens  Briinnert,  ein  Schweizer,  der  1874  bereits 
80  Jahre  zahlte,  und  der  schon  im  Jahre  1831  die  angrenzende 
Farm  neben  Lenau  gekauft  und  bewohnt  hatte,  teilte  ihm  das 
Wenige  mit,  das  er  iiber  den  Dichter  wusste:  "  Lenau  hielt 
sich,"  sagte  der  alte  Herr,  "  mehrere  Wochen  im  Winter 
1832-33  a^if  seinem  Lande  auf.  Er  war  ein  f einer  Herr,  der 
aber  keineswegs  in  den  Hinterwald  passte.  Er  trug  elegante 
Kleider  und  einen  Pelzmantel,  hatte  Tanzschuhe  und  weisse 
Handschuhe  an,  als  wenn  es  auf  einen  Hofball  gehen  sollte. 
Mit  Glacehandschuhen  an  den  Handen  ergriff  er  die  Axt,  um 
Baume  umzuhacken,  legte  sie  aber  nach  ein  paar  Streichen  bald 
wieder  bin."  Er  wohnte  bei  einem  englischen  Nachbar,  dessen 
Namen  Brunnert  als  Boyle  angab  (der  alte,  fast  80  jahrige  Herr 
sagte  aber,  dass  er  in  Bezug  auf  den  Namen  nicht  ganz  sicher 
sei).  Lenau  habe  sich  nur  schwer  mit  dem  Mann  unterhalten 
konnen  und  habe  iiberhaupt  mit  den  Deutschen  der  Gegend  fast 
gar  nicht  verkehrt.  Er  sei  beinahe  immer  im  Hause  geblieben, 
wo  er  immerfort  schrieb  und  kaum  ein  Wort  sprach.  Man 
habe  ihn  nur  den  "  verriickten  Deutschen  "  genannt  Plotzlich 
im  Febr.  1833  war  er  wieder  verschwunden,  er  war  in  einem 
Schlitten  von  Crawford  Co,  iiber  New  Lisbon  nach  Pittsburg 
gefahren/  Zwei  Jahre  spater  (1876)  lernte  Herr  Rattermann  in 
Canton,  Ohio,  einen  gewissen  Johann  Raber  kennen,  der  seit 
1829  etwa  6  Jahre  in  New  Lisbon  Schullehrer  war,  und  der 
Lenau  im  dortigen  Gasthofe  getroflfen  hatte.  Seine  Schilderune 
des  Dichters  stimmte  genau  mit  der  Briinnerts  iiberein."  Nach 
einer  langen  P'ahrt  durch  den  mit  Eis  und  Schnee  bedeckten 
Urwald  tauchte  Lenau  schon  anfangs  Februar  im  Freundes- 
kreise  zu  Pittsburg  auf.  Der  Wiener  Schriftsteller  W.  R.  Ried- 
len  gesellte  sich  zu  ihm,  und  am  7.  Febr.  machten  sie  in  Ge- 
meinschaft  mit  Herrn  C.  L.  Volz  eine  Reise  nach  Economy, 
um  dem  Wiener  Freunde  die  interessante   Niederlassung  der 

'  Brief  von  Herrn  H.  A.  Rattermann  vom  17.  December  1894. 
■^  Personliche  Mitteilung  von  Herrn  Rattermann. 


52  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

Rappisten  zii  zeigeii.  Seine  im  Jahre  1834  in  Aarau  erschienene 
Bearbeitung  von  J.  P.  Dawis  Guter  Rat  an  Etnwajiderer  in  den 
Vereinigten  Staaten  widmete  Riedlen  zur  freundlichen  Erin- 
nerung  an  diesen  Aiisflug  den  beiden  Reisegefahrten  Lenau 
nnd  Volz.^  Die  iibrige  Zeit  vor  der  Abreise  nach  New  York 
brachte  Lenau  grosstenteils  als  Kranker  in  Economy  zu.  Auf 
der  langen  Reise  durch  den  eisigen  Urwald  hatte  er  sicli  eine 
Starke  Erkaltung  zugezogen,  die  bald  den  Charakter  eines  lasti- 
gen  rheumatischen  Leidens  annalim,  so  dass  er  das  Bett  liiiten 
musste,  wodurch  die  Heimreise  etwa  noch  fiinf  Wochen  verzo- 
gert  wurde.  Erst  am  28.  Febr.  fiihlte  er  sich  wolil  genug,  vom 
Lager  aus  dem  Schwager  Schurz  in  Wien  zu  melden,  dass  er 
sich  anfangs  April  in  New  York  einschiffen  werde."  Wahrschein- 
lich  entstand  nach  dieser  Krankheit  auf  einem  Spaziergang  auf 
der  Wiese  bei  Economy  das  Gedicht  "Primula  veris."^  Das  Bliim- 
chen,  ein  Symbol  des  Glaubens,  wird  von  dem  Frost  zerknickt. 
Anfangs  Marz  stellt  sich  oft  in  den  mittleren  Staaten,  zu  denen 
Ohio  gehort,  laues,  warmes  Friihjahrswetter  ein,  und  die  Pri- 
meln  treiben,  sprossen  und  steigen  aus  der  Erde  hervor,  aber  der 
Friihling,  der  schon  im  Anzug  zu  sein  schien,  wird  plotzlich 
durch  ein  schweres  Schneegestober  unterbrochen,  das  die  zarten 
Waldblumen  knickt  und  begrabt.  Der  Anblick  solcher  ver- 
welkten  Primeln,  die  den  Friihling  zu  friih  verkiindigt  hatten, 
riihrte  den  Dichter  und  rief  "  Primula  veris,"  diese  Perle  unter 
seinen  kleineren  Gedichten  hervor. 

Um  die  noch  unerledigten  Geschafte  beziiglich  seines  Be- 
sitzes  abzumachen,  wahrscheinlich  insbesondere  um  die  Kaufur- 
kunde  zu  holen,  deren  Ankunft  aus  Washington  sich  lange 
verzogert  hatte,  kelirte  Lenau  anfangs  Marz  auf  das  Landerei- 
amt  nach  New  Lisbon  am  Ohio  Fluss  zuriick/  Im  einsamen 
Gasthofe  zu  New  Lisbon,  wo  er  sich  etliche  Tage  auf  hielt,  wan- 
delt  ihn,  wie  nie  zuvor,  die   Sehnsucht  nach  den  Freunden  in 


^  Lenaus  Werke.   Ausgabe  von  Anton  Graf  von  Auersperg,  p.  40.     Stuttgart 
1S54  (Cotta  1874). 
'^  Schurz  I,  p.  203. 
^  Reclain'' sche  Ausgabe,  p.  64. 
*  Schurz  I,  p.  204. 


G.  A.   Miiljinger.  53 

der  Heimat  an,  und  er  erleichtert  sein  von  Verdniss  und  Ent- 
tauschungen  iiberfliessendes  Herz  in  zwei  langen  Briefen  an 
Emilie  Reinbeck  in  Stuttgart  und  Joseph  Klemm  in  Wien/ 
Sehr  charakteristisch  fiir  Lenaus  Geistesverfassung  in  dieser  Zeit 
ist  es,  dass  er  sich  Monate  lang  macerieren  Hess,  um  seinen  eig- 
nen  Ausdruck  zu  gebrauchen,  in  Sehnsuclit  nacli  den  Geliebten, 
ohne  seineni  Herzen  in  Briefen  Luft  zu  machen.  Es  scheint 
fast,  als  ob  er  sich  in  der  Verzweiflung  nach  dem  Tode  sehnte, 
da  die  schonen  Traume,  die  er  iiber  Amerika  hatte,  nicht  ver- 
wirklicht  wurden. 

In  dem  Brief  an  Emilie  Reinbeck  sehen  wir  nun,  wie  seine 
phantastische  Sehnsucht  nach  Amerika  in  Abscheu  vor  Amerika 
libergegangen  war.  Lenau  vermochte  nun  selbst  den  Damon, 
den  ihm  die  amerikanische  fixe  Idee  eingab,  und  den  Kerner 
vor  der  Abreise  vergeblich  bannte,  aus  sich  herauszutreiben. 
Er  berichtet  im  eben  erwahnten  Brief  an  Emilie  Reinbeck  unter 
dem  5.  Marz  1833:  "Wie  mir  Amerika  gefallt  ? — Fiirs  Erste: 
rauhes  Klima.  Heute  ist  der  5.  Marz  und  icli  sitze  am  Kamine  ; 
draussen  liegt  fusstiefer  Schnee  und  ich  habe  ein  Loch  im  Kopf, 
das  ich  mir  gestern  bei  einem  tiichtigen  Schlittenumwurf  gefal- 
len  habe.  Die  Wege  der  Freiheit  sind  sehr  rauh;  das  Loch  im 
Kopf  aber  ist  sehr  gut.  Ich  glaube,  durch  dieses  Loch  werden 
die  letzten  Gedanken  an  ein  weiteres  Herumreisen  (eigentlich 
Herumrasen),  um  gliickliche  Menschen  und  iiberhaupt  bes- 
seres  Erdenleben  zu  finden,  aus  meinem  Kopfe  hinausfahren. 
Wie  aus  dem  geoffneten  Bierkrug  die  fixe  Luft,  so  machen  sich 
aus  meinem  geoffneten  Kopfe  die  fixen  Ideen  los. 

Fiirs  Zweite  :  rauhe  Menschen.  Ihre  Rauheit  ist  aber  nicht 
die  Rauheit  wilder,  kraftiger  Naturen,  nein,  es  ist  eine  zahme, 
und  darum  doppelt  widerlich.  BiifFon  hat  Recht,  dass  in 
Amerika  Menschen  und  Tiere  von  Geschlecht  zu  Geschlecht 
weiter  herabkommen.  Ich  habe  hier  noch  keinen  mutigen 
Hund  gesehen,  kein  feuriges  Pferd,  keinen  leidenschaftlichen 
Menschen.  Die  Natur  ist  hier  entsetzlich  matt.  Hier  gibt  es, 
wie  Sie  wissen,  keine  Nachtigall,  iiberhaupt  keine  wahren  Sing- 

'  Schurz  I,  pp.  204,  206, 


54  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

vogel.  Der  Natur  wird  es  hier  nie  so  wohl  urns  Herz,  oder  so 
weh,  dass  sie  singen  miisste.  Sie  hat  kein  Gemiit  und  keine 
Phantasie,  iind  kann  darum  iliren  Geschopfen  audi  niclits  der- 
gleichen  geben.  Es  ist  was  recht  Trauriges,  diese  ausgebrann- 
ten  Menschen  zii  sehen  in  ihren  ausgebrannten  Waldern.  Be- 
sonders  haben  die  eingewanderten  Deutschen  einen  fatalen  Ein- 
druck  auf  micli  gemacht.  Wenn  sie  einige  Jahre  hier  gewesen, 
hat  sich  alles  Feuer,  das  sie  aus  der  Heimat  heriibergebracht, 
auf  den  letzten  Funken  verloren.  Das  bekennen  sie  selbst. 
'  In  Deutschland  war  ich  ein  ganz  anderer  Kerl,'  sagte  Einer, 
'  da  wiirde  ich  Jeden  hinter  die  Ohren  geschlagen  haben,  der 
mir  das  geboten  hatte,'  etc.  Die  schlimmste  Frucht  der  iiblen 
Verhaltnisse  in  Deutschland  ist  nach  meiner  tjberzeugung  die 
Auswanderung  nach  Amerika.  Da  kommen  die  armen  ge- 
drangten  Menschen  heriiber,  und  den  letzten  himmlischen  Spar- 
pfennig,  den  ihnen  Gott  ins  Herz  gelegt,  werfen  sie  hin  fiir  ein 
Stiick  Brod  !  Anfangs  diinkt  ihnen  das  fremde  (furchtbarfremde!) 
Land  unertraglich  und  sie  werden  ergriffen  von  einem  heftigen 
Heimweh.  Aber  wie  bald  ist  dieses  Heimweh  verloren  !  Ich 
muss  eilen  iiber  Hals  und  Kopf  hinaus — hinaus — sonst  verlier ' 
ich  das  meinige  audi  noch.  Hier  sind  tiickische  Liifte, 
schleichender  Tod."  ^ 

Lenau  hielt  auch  Wort.  Schon  am  15.  Marz  verliess  er 
Economy  und  ritt  dem  Niagara  zu.  Mit  dem  Fuss  im  Steig- 
biigel  unterzeichnete  er  einen  Landereipachtvertrag  und  setzte 
Ludwig  H.,  Zimmermeister,  aus  Laufen  in  Wiirttemberg,  als 
Pachter  ein."  In  der  Wahl  dieses  Mamies,  den  er  vor  seiner 
Abreise  im  Brief e  an  Schurz  als  "  den  rechtschaffensten  tiichtig- 
sten  Mann  riihmte,  den  er  jemals  aus  derlei  Stiinde  kennen 
gelernt  hatte,"  ^  zeigte  Lenau  wenig  Menschenkenntnis.  Ein 
deutscher  Zimmermann,  der  ohnehin  wenig  von  Landwirtschaft 
verstand,  eignete  sich  schlecht  dazii,  einen  araerikanischen  Ur- 
wald  auszuroden   und  das  Land  urbar  zu  machen.     Laut  des 


'  Schurz  I,  p.  204,  f. 
'  Schurz  I,  p.  210. 
3  Schurz  I,  p.  186. 


G.  A.  Midjinger.  55 

Vertrages  nahm  dieser,  vom  i.  Janiiar  1833  an  gerechnet,  die 
Farm  von  400  Acker  in  Paclit.  Am  Ende  der  Pachtzeit  sollten 
300  Morgen  gelichtet,  in  Frucht  gestellt  nnd  eingezaunt  sein. 
Als  Betriebscapital  erhielt  H.,  ausser  einem  friiheren  Geldvor- 
schusse,  600  Dollars,  wovon  er  wahrend  der  Pachtzeit,  ein  ge- 
blocktes  Wohnhaus,  zweistockig,  mit  Schindeldach,  eine  Scheuer 
nnd  die  notigen  Stallnngen  herznstellen  nnd  einen  bestimmten 
Viehstand  zn  iiberliefern,  verpflichtet  war.  Als  Pachtgeld  sollte 
der  Pachter  im  Ganzen  800  Dollars  bezahlen.^  Der  Pachter 
begleitete  Lenau  anf  dem  200  Meilen  langen  Ritt  an  den 
Katarakt  nnd  brachte  den  durcli  grosse  Anstrengnngen  erschopf- 
ten  Schimmel  kaum  wieder  auf  das  Land  zuriick.  Das  Gedicht 
"An  einen  Baum  "  entstand  hochst  wahrscheinlich  auf  dieser 
Tour,  nnd  Lenau  gedachte  dabei  seinem  geschatzten  Freunde 
Vater  Hartmann  in  Stuttgart,  Vater  von  Emilie  Reinbeck,  ein 
Denkmal  zu  setzten.^  Lenau  hatte  sich  auf  den  Katarakt  lange 
gefreut,  und  er  glaubt,  dass  dieser  und  der  Urwald  die  ganze 
Reise  reichlich  belohnen  wiirden.^  Der  Fall  hat  ihn  audi  wirk- 
lich  zu  drei  schonen  Gedichten  inspiriert :  "  Verschiedene 
Deutung,"  "  Die  drei  Indianer  "  und  "  Niagara."  ^  Der  Eindruck 
der  Unmittelbarkeit,  der  von  diesem  letzteren  ausgeht,  macht 
es  wahrsheinlich,  dass  sich  Lenau  langere  Zeit  am  Fall  aufhielt 
und  genaue  Beobachtungen  anstellte.  In  jener  Zeit  stand  noch 
ein  dichter  Urwald  auf  beiden  Seiten  des  Flusses  und  auf  Goats 
Island,  einer  Insel,  die  den  Fall  in  zwei  Halften  teilt ;  auf  der 
letzteren  verkauften  Chippewa-Indianer  allerlei  Schmucksachen 
an  die  Besucher.^  Den  Wanderer,  der  sich  von  Buffalo  aus  dem 
Fall  nahert,  lasst  das  sanfte  Gewoge  im  Strome  nicht  die  Nahe  des 
Abgrundes  ahnen ;  er  wird  aber  schon  in  einer  Entfernung 
von  drei  Meilen  desselben  gewahr  durch  aufsteigenden  Dampf 


*  Schurz  I,  p  210 

'■*  Schurz  I,  p.  211. 
'  Schurz  I,  p.  199. 

*  Reclam'sche  Ausgabe,  pp.  79,  S3. 

^  Vgl.  Reisebericht  von   Dr.  Moritz  Wagner  u.  Dr.  Carl  Scherzer  (Leipzig 
1857),  p.  6. 


56  Lenaii  in  Amcrika. 

und  dumpfes  Getose.       Dieses   veranschaulicht    Lenaii  in    den 
Worten  : 

"Also  sanft  die  Wellen  gleiten, 

Dass  der  Wanderer  ungestort 

Und  erstaunt  die  meilenweiten 

Katarakte  rauschen  hort. ' ' 

Etwa  eine  Meile  vom  Falle  nelimen  die  "  Rapids  "  oder  kleineren 
Wasserfalle  ihren  Anfang : 

"Wo  des  Niagara  Bahnen 
Naher  ziehn  dem  Katarakt, 
Hat  den  Strom  ein  wildes  Ahnen 
Plotzlich  seines  Falls  gepackt. 

Die  Stromschnellen  stiirzen,  schiessen 
Donnern  fort  im  wilden  Drang, 
Wie  von  Sehnsucht  hingerissen 
Nach  dem  grossen  Untergang." 

Auch  die  Beobachtung  ist  selir  genau,  dass  man  den  Fall,  den 
man  in  grosser  Entfernung  hort,  nicht  in  der  Nahe  vernimmt, 
weil  der  Wogenschall  zii  laut  ist. 

Aiich  das  Gedicht  "  Verschiedene  Deutung"  ^  beruht  auf  einem 
Phaenomen,  das  sich  darbietet,  wenn  man  die  holzerne  Briicke 
hinabsteigt,  wo  die  Sonne  auf  den  feinen  Wasserstaub  scheint, 
in  den  die  Wassermassen  durch  das  Herabfallen  zerstoben  sind, 
und  den  prachtigsten  Regenbogen  bildet,  worin  ein  jeder  Tro- 
pfen  "  einsam,  wie  ein  amies  Ich,"  des  Bogens  Farbenharmonie 
wiederstrahlt.  Die  Rothaute,  welche  auf  der  Insel  ihre  Schnitz- 
ware  feilboten,  batten  schon  viel  von  ihrer  Natiirlichkeit 
verloren,  seit  sie  mit  den  Weissen  in  Beriihrung  standen.  In 
dem  Gedicht  "  Die  drei  Indianer "  schildert  Lenau  die  nach 
Freiheit  diirstenden  Sohne  der  Wildnis,  welche  es  lieber  vor- 
ziehen  in  einem  Kahn  iiber  den  Katarakt  zu  schiessen,  um  den 
Untergang  zu  finden,  als  ihre  freien,  wilden  Lebensgewohn- 
heiten  in  die  enge  Jacke  der  Kultur  zwangen  zu  lassen.  Dem 
romantischen    Lenau    schien    es   sicherlich    sehr   bedauerlich, 


1  Cotta'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  164. 


G.  A.  Mtilfinger.  57 

dass  die  Rothaute,  welche  er  sah,  fiir  ein  bischen  Sclieinkultiir 
ihreti  wild-romantischen  Naturcharakter  eingebiisst  batten. 

Am  Anfang  der  dreissiger  Jahre  legten  die  meisten  Reisenden 
den  Weg  von  Buffalo  nach  Albany,  New  York,  auf  dem  etliche 
Jahre  vorher  vollendeten  Erie  Canal  zuriick/  Die  Entfer- 
nung  von  Buffalo  nach  Albany  betrug  362  Meilen.  Lenau 
schlug  wohl  auch  diesen  Weg  ein  und  fuhr  wahrscheinlich  auf 
einem  "  Packet-Boat "  (ein  flach  gebautes  Schiff),  das  von  drei 
hintereinander  gespannten  Pferden  gezogen  wurde,  den  Canal 
entlang  nach  Albany,  New  York.  Der  Weg  ging  durch  manche 
liebliche  Gegenden,  wie  z.  B.  das  Mohawk  Thai  im  Staate  New 
York.  Die  Reise  den  Hudson  hinunter  von  Albany  nach  New 
York  wurde  wohl  auf  dem  Dampfer  fortgesetzt.^  Wahrschein- 
lich machte  er  auf  dieser  Fahrt  die  von  Schurz  erwahnte 
Bekanntschaft  Martin  Van  Burens,  des  Viceprasidenten  der 
Vereinigten  Staaten  ;  dieser  bot  ihm  seinen  Einfluss  an,  wenn 
er  ihm  niitzlich  werden  konnte.^ 

Da  die  Reise  von  Economy  iiber  den  Niagara  nach  New  York 
wenigstens  drei  Wochen  dauerte,  kam  Lenau  nicht  vor  Mitte 
April  in  New  York  an.  Hier  hielt  er  sich  eine  Zeit  lang  auf 
und  erfulir  von  seiten  der  amerikanischen  Handelsherren  freund- 
liche  Aufnahme  und  manche  Gefalligkeiten  ;  besonders  erwahnt 
Schurz  einen  gewissen  Herrn  von  Post,  an  dem  lycnau  einen 
werten  Freund  gewann.* 

Long  Island  bei  New  York  ist,  wie  Schurz  vermutet,  die 
Wiege  von  der  "  Sturmesmythe."  ^  Fiir  diese  Ansicht  spricht 
der  locale  Hintergrund.  Am  Meeresstrand  sah  Lenau  wohl,  wie 
am  Abend  sich  plotzlich  ein  schweres  Friihlingsgewitter,  v/ie 
sie  in  jener  Gegend  besonders  haufig  vorkommen,  iiber  das  Meer 
lagerte  und  es  aufwiihlte. 

Lenau  trat  seine  Heimreise  auf  einem  Segelschiff  an,  wie  aus 

1  Vgl.    Duden,  p.   281  ;    Herzog  Bernhardts  Reisebericht  I,  p.  115  ;  Gordons 
Gazetteer,  p.  41. 
^  Nicolaus  Letiaus  Briefe  an  einen  Freund,  p.  106. 
^  Schurz  I,  p.  211. 
*  Schurz  I,  p.  211. 
Schurz  I,  p.  212;  vgl.  Reclatn'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  86. 


58  Leiiau  in  Amerika. 

dein  Gedicht  "  Der  Schiffsjunge  "  hervorgeht ;  er  verliess  New- 
York  Ende  April  oder  anfangs  Mai  und  kam  spat  im  Juni  in 
Bremen  an.  Der  Brief,  den  er  von  hier  aiis  an  Schnrz  richtete, 
verfehlte  seiner  Bestimmung.  Das  eben  erwahnte  Gedicht,  das 
die  einzige  Kunde  iiber  seine  Heimreise  enthalt,  entstand  im 
Friihling  1834^  und  wurde  den  "  Atlantika  "  als  Schlussgedicht 
beigefiigt.  Es  fiel  bei  der  tjberfahrt  wirklich  ein  Junge  vor 
Lenaus  Augen  vom  Maste  herab  ins  Meer  nnd  ertrank.^  In 
Bremen  setzte  er  in  den  Matrosenkneipen  bei  Fiedel  und  Tanz 
die  Studien  fiir  seinen  Faust  fort,  die  er  wohl  schon  in  Baltimore 
und  Amsterdam  begonnen  hatte.^  In  Menzels  Litteraturblatt 
sail  er  zu  seiner  grossen  Uberraschung  seinen  Namen  mit  dem 
lyorbeerkranz  umgeben  und  sich  als  beriihmten  Dichter  gefeiert/ 
Er  eilte  iiber  Heidelberg  nach  Stuttgart  und  Weinsberg.  Als 
Justinus  Kerner  ihn  fragte :  "Wieging's,"  erwiderte  er :  "Das 
sind  verschweinte,  nicht  vereinte  amerikanische  Staaten."  ^  Im 
Freundeskreise  parodierte  er  oft  gerne  "  Yankee  Doodle,"  aber 
sprach  sonst  wenig  und  ungern  von  seinen  Erlebnissen  in 
Amerika.'^  Nur  noch  einmal  in  spateren  Jahren,  als  er  besonders 
iiber  Sophie  Lowenthals  Benehmen  aufgebracht  war,  drohte  er  im 
voUen  Ernst,  nach  Amerika  zuriickzukehren  und  in  seinem 
Urwaldversteck  den  Rest  seines  Eebens  einsam  zu  verbrummen/ 
Als  gefeierter  Dichter  bekiimmerte  er  sich  wenig  um  das 
amerikanische  Besitztum.  Ein  ganz  anderes  Interesse  fiir  das 
Gelingen  seiner  Spekulation  bewies  der  "  kreuzbrave  "  Diener 
Philipp  Huber,  der  in  Wheeling,  West  Virginia,  als  Kohlen- 
graber  eine  Stelle  gefunden  hatte,  Zweimal  schreibt  er  an  seinen 
alten  Herrn  Niembsch  beziiglich  des  Landes,  ohne  eine  Antwort 
von  diesem  zu  erhalten.  Vor  Absendung  des  dritten  Brief  es  (16. 
April  1837)  ^  machte  er  eigens  die  Reise  nach  Pittsburg,  um  sich 


^  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  p.  259  ;  I,  p.  203. 

^  Schurz  I,  p.  213. 

^  Schurz  I,  p.  213,  214. 

*  Schurz  I,  p.  214. 
^  Daselbst. 

*  Daselbst. 

'  Lenau  u.  Sophie  Lowenthal ,  p.  103. 
"  Schurz  I,  p.  340. 


G.  A.  Mulfinger.  59* 

bei  Herrn  Volz  iiber  Lenaus  Ankunft  und  Adresse  in  Europa  zu 
vergewissern.  Darin  berichtet  er  seinem  Herrn  :  dass  der  Pachter 
nach  anderthalb  Jahren  das  Land  verlassen,  ohne  die  Bedin- 
gungen  des  Vertrages  erfiillt  zn  haben.  Er  habe  50  Acker  abge- 
holzt,  einen  Stall  und  ein  kleines  Blockhaus  gebaut,  aber  sei  dann 
auf  ein  dem  Lande  nahe  gelegenes  Grundstiick  gezogen,  habe  ein 
Geschaft  daselbst  angefangen,  Bankrott  gemacht,  und  habe  nach 
Canada  fliehen  miissen.  Das  Land  selbst  aber  sei  inzwischen 
auf  15-16  Dollars  den  Morgen  verkauflich  geworden,  und  es 
freuten  sich  schon  Viele,  es  um  den  Taxpreis  an  sich  zu  ziehen. 
Lenau  bezahlte  auch  darauf  die  Taxen  fiir  1838  und  '39,  die 
also  erst  fiinf  Jahre  nach  dem  Ankaufe  des  Landes  fallig  ge- 
worden waren,  aber  er  beantwortete  nicht  den  folgenden  Brief 
des  Dieners,  worin  dieser  ihn  ersuchte,  ihm  die  Pacht  zu  geben. 
Inzwischen  drang  ein  fremder  Mann  ein  und  weigerte  sich  weg- 
zuziehen,  bis  man  ihm  eine  Vollmacht  vom  Eigentiimer  oder 
vom  Gericht  vorlegte.  Unter  dem  24.  Jan.  1840  bat  Huber  den 
Dichter  um  eine  Vollmacht,  diesen  Mann  vom  Lande  zu  treiben, 
und  er  versprach  seinem  Herrn,  da  er  nun  verheiratet  ware  und 
sich  Geld  erspart  hatte,  das  Land  zu  tibernehmen.^  Da  Lenau 
Alles  aufzuschieben  pflegte,  traf  die  Erwiederung  auf  Hubers 
Brief  zu  spat  ein.  Am  3.  Juni  1840  kam  der  treue  Philipp  durch 
einen  herabfallenden  Stein  in  der  Kohlenmiene  ums  Leben. 
Die  Briider  des  Verstorbenen  berichteten  dieses  Ungliick  an  den 
Dichter  und  baten  ihn  um  eine  zweite  Vollmacht,  den  Mann 
vom  Land  zu  jagen,  da  die  erste  nicht  mehr  giiltig  war.^  Lenau 
machte  sich  nun  Vorwiirfe,  well  der  treue  Diener  so  ungliicklich 
ums  Leben  gekommen,  und  da  er  nur  Verdruss  vom  Lande 
hatte,  insofern  es  keinen  Pachtzins  abwarf,  mochte  er  hinfort 
nichts  mehr  davon  horen.  Er  schickte  Philipps  Briidern  keine 
Vollmacht  und  wollte  mit  Gewalt  das  ganze  Besitztum  der 
Lowenthal  schenken  mit  der  Bedingung,  dass  kein  weiteres 
Wort  dariiber  gesprochen  wiirde.^     Da  die  Steuern  nach   '39 

^  Nik.   Lenaus  Brief e  an  Emilie  v.   Reinbeck  u.  s.  w.,  p.  133;  vgl.  auch 
Schurz  II,  p.  21. 

^  Nik.  Lenaus  Brief e  an  Emilie  v.  Reinbeck  u.  s.  zv.,  p.  138  ;  Schurz  II,  p.  40. 
^  Schurz  II,  41. 


6o  Lenaii  in  Amerika. 

nicht  bezahlt  wurden,  kam  das  Land  auf  dem  Wege  des  Gerichts 
an  einen  Schweizer  Joseph  Jung,  der  spater  eine  Viertelsektion 
an  seinen  Sch wager  Georg  Gartner  abtrug.  Durch  Fleiss  imd 
Ausdauer  verwandelte  der  wackere  Pachter  die  verwilderte 
Waldstatte  in  eine  mit  Fruchtackern  und  Obstgarten  umgebene 
Heimstatte.^ 

Nach  der  Geistesumnaclitung  des  Dichters  bekiimmerten  sicli 
dessen  Freunde  um  das  Besitztum  in  Amerika  und  liessen  ihn 
in  einem  lichten  Augenblick  in  der  Heilanstalt  zu  Winnenthal 
eine  Vollmacht  unterzeiclinen,  wodurch  seine  Anspriiche  auf 
das  Land  gesetzlich  festgestellt  wurden,^  Da  aber  diese  Voll- 
macht nicht  den  amerikanischen  ortlichen  Verhaltnissen  genii- 
gend  befunden  wurde,  so  musste  eine  zweite  Vollmacht  geschickt 
werden,  die  schwer  zu  Stande  kam.^  Das  Haus  Oelrichs  und 
Kriiger  in  New  York  besorgte  die  Angelegenheit  fiir  Lenaus 
Anverwandte,  wobei  der  kaiserlich-osterreichische  Consul  An- 
dre in  Cincinnati  mit  den  Eigenthiimern  des  Landes  iiber  die 
auszuzahlende  Summe  eins  wurde.  Vertreter  der  Eigentiimer 
in  den  Unterhandlungen  war  Gartners  Schwiegersohn,  der  in 
Cincinnati  1873  verstorbene  angesehene  Advokat  Joseph  E. 
Egly/  Obwohl  die  Eigentiimer  des  Landes  gesetzmassig  dem 
Dichter  nichts  schuldig  waren,  so  haben  sie  doch  aus  Gerechtig- 
keitsg-efiihl  und  Mitleid  zur  Zufriedenheit  der  Anverwandten  das 
urspriinglich  im  Land  angelegte  Kapital  mit  Interessen  bis  an 
des  Dichters  Tod  bezahlt.^ 

tjber  die  Art  und  Weise,  wie  Lenau  um  sein  Land  in  Amerika 
kam,  ist  bereits  schon  so  viel  geflunkert  worden,  dass  es  hohe 
Zeit  war,  dariiber  den  richtigen  Sachverhalt,  wie  er  soeben  ge- 
geben  und  von  Herrn  J.  E.  Egly  personlich  an  Herrn  H.  A. 
Rattermann  mitgeteilt  wurde,  zu  veroflfentlichen.*' 

Dass  der  Bericht  dariiber,  wie  er  in  Emil  Klauprechts  langst 

^  H.  A.  Rattermann,  der  im  April  1874  Lenaus  ehemalige  "Farm"  besuchte, 
jnachte  mir  obige  Mitteilung  iiber  die  spateren  Schicksale  des  Landes. 
2  Schurz  II,  pp.  27S,  286. 
^  Schurz  II,  p.  291. 

*  Obiges  teilt  mir  H.  A.  Rattermann  in  einem  Brief  vom  17.  Dec.  1894  mit. 
^  Schurz  II,  p.  291. 
•*  Vgl.  Rattermanns  Brief  vom  17.  Dec.  1S94. 


G.  A.  Muljinger.  6i 

selten  gewordener  Geschichte  der  Deutschen  im  Ohio-Thale^ 
enthalten,  nicht  stichhaltig  sein  kann,  geht  schon  daraus  hervor, 
dass    dieser   gegen    Lenaus  eigene    Angabe,    wonach    er   einen 

gewissen    Zimmerman    H aus    Wiirttemberg  als    Pachter 

eingesetzt  habe,  behauptet,  dass  die  Farm  einem  deutschen 
Bauern  Namens  Gartner  vom  Dichter  zur  Verwaltung  iiber- 
lassen  wurde.  Auch  die  Behauptungen,  dass  Jung  aus  dem 
Elsass  stamme,  und  dass  der  preussische  Konsul  Herr  Stanislaus 
in  Cincinnati  durch  "  langes,  hartes  Parlamentieren  "  den  Eigen- 
tiimer  zu  einer  Entschadigung  bewogen  habe,  sind  rein  aus  der 
Luft  gegriffen. 

'  Vgl.  Deutsches  und  Amerikanisches  von  Karl  Knorz,  pp.   15,  16.     (Glarus 
1894). 


AMERICA   AS   THE   POLITICAL   UTOPIA   OF 
YOUNG   GERMANY. 


America  from  the  time  of  its  discovery  has  stood  for  personal 
liberty.  Whenever  intolerance  in  the  Old  World  became  insuf- 
ferable, it  appeared  as  a  land  where  oppression  was  impossible. 

The  use  of  the  word  curopamtide  in  the  thirties  and  forties 
at  once  implies  the  existence  of  a  country  where  the  weary 
European  might  rest  from  the  difficulties  which  beset  him  at 
home.  No  extended  discussion  is  therefore  necessary  to  show 
that  the  United  States  was  the  land  of  promise  to  the  over- 
burdened European. 

At  this  time  politics  was  the  theme  which  occupied  the  minds 
of  the  thinking  public  in  Europe.  Literature  had  become  the 
handmaid  of  political  propagandism.'  In  Germany  the  school 
of  "  Das  junge  Deutschland"  had  full  sway,  and  as  this  school 
had  for  its  prime  object  the  spreading  of  political  theories,  it  is 
impossible  to  study  this  period  without  treating  historical  ques- 
tions as  well  as  purely  literary  problems.  The  interest  which 
the  "  Young  Germans"  felt  in  the  cause  of  freedom  was  to  a 
great  extent  romantic.^     They  were  interested  in  an  abstract 


'  "  Sonnetchen  an  Amanda 
So  leiern  wir  nicht  mehr, 
Es  ward  zur  Propaganda 
Das  deutsche  Dichterheer." 
Sallets  Gesamme/te  Gedichte ;  Konigsberg  1843,  P-  309. 

^  Cf.  Proelsz,  Das  junge  Deutschlaftd,  Stuttgart  1892,  p.  45.  "  Dasz  die  Auf- 
fassung  der  Griechen  und  Polen  sowie  der  Tiroler  unter  Hofer  als  Freiheits- 
kampfer  zumeist  eine  romantische  war,  entsprach  ebenso  der  Bildung  der  Zeit, 
wie  das  romantische  Hinauspilgern  deutscher  Freiheitschwarmer  zur  Theil- 
nahme  an  den  Kampfen  fremder  Nationen,  fiir  deren  politische  Freiheit,  zu 
welchem  Byron  ein  so  glanzendes  Beispiel  gegeben,  nachdem  sclion  1772 
Lafayette  und  Kosciuszko  ahnliches  gethan,  als  die  Wirkung  der  Unabhangig- 
keits  erklarung  von  Amerika  die  Welt  erfiillte,  u.  s.  w." 

Wilhelm  Miiller's  GriechenHeder  and.  Platen's  /b/^«/zV«'^rare  also  interesting 
in  this  connection. 


T.  S.  Baker.  63 

ideal  of  liberty,  which  appealed  to  their  imaginations  and  not 
altogether  to  their  ideas  of  personal  safety  and  freedom.  This 
was  a  period  of  political  unrest.  Revolutions  were  taking  place 
in  Greece,  Poland,  the  Tyrol,  France  and  Germany.  There  was 
an  almost  universal  opposition  to  the  established  forms  of  govern- 
ment. What  the  effect  of  the  Declaration  of  Independence  and 
the  American  Revolution  had  been  upon  European  politics,  this 
is  not  the  place  to  inquire,  but  it  is  not  to  be  questioned  that 
these  events  directed  universal  attention  to  America  as  the  seat 
of  political  freedom.^  From  this  time  on  the  United  States 
stood  for  the  highest  condition  of  personal  liberty,^  and  that  the 
ideals  of  "  Young  Germany"  were  influenced  by  the  fact  that  in 
America  the  individual  v/as  supposed  to  be  absolutely  untram- 
meled  seems  probable.  Wienbarg,  who  gave  the  name  to  this 
new  school  lived  in  Altona  near  Hamburg,-^  the  most  important 
port  in  Germany  for  the  American  trade. 

Besides  this  general  influence  of  American  politics  and  life 
upon  the  European  ideals  of  liberty,  America  seemed  to  be  also 


Mt  is  a  well-known  fact  that  during  the  war  of  the  American  Revolution 
Klinger  meditated  coming  to  America.  Cf.  Klinger  in  der  Sturm-  und  Drang- 
periode  von  Max  Rieger.  Darmstadt,  1880,  p.  398  ff.  It  is  also  noteworthy 
that  the  scene  of  Klinger's  drama  "Sturm  und  Drang"  is  laid  in  America. 
Note  also  the  plan  of  Wagner  and  Heinse  to  emigrate  at  this  time. 

^  America  as  the  seat  of  real  freedom  is  treated  poetically  in  Anastasius 
Griin's  (Graf  Auersperg)  Schutt,  which  is  characterized  as  follows  by  R.  Gott- 
schall,  Die  Deutsche  Nat.  lit.  des  igten  Jahrhunderts,  vol.  Ill,  p.  97  : 

"  Die  dritte  Abtheilung  des  Schutt :  '  Cincinatus  '  eroffnet  uns  transatlantische 
Perspectiven,  von  den  Triimmern  Pompeiis,  von  der  verschiitteten  und  aus- 
gegrabenen  Vergangenheit  hinaus  in  die  Urwalder  des  fernen  Amerikas  in  das 
Asyl  jugendlicher  Freiheit,  in  welches  alle  fliichten  sollen,  denen  die  heimath- 
liche  Erde  vergallt  ist.  Dort  ist  die  schopferische  Kraft  der  Arbeit,  die  eine 
neue  Zukunft  griindet,  wahrend  in  Italiens  Ruinen  nur  der  Miisziggang  und  die 
Genuszsucht  haust." 

■^  It  is  also  to  be  noted  that  in  certain  respects  Hamburg  was  the  chief  city  for 
the  "Young  German"  agitation.  The  firm  of  Hoffman  &  Campe  which 
published  most  of  the  writings  of  the  members  of  this  school  was  located  in 
Hamburg. 

The  parents  of  Ludolph  Wienbarg  expected  to  send  their  son  to  America, 
and  his  education  was  conducted  with  a  view  to  his  being  adopted  by  a  rich 
uncle  in  Baltimore. 


64  Young   Germany  in  America. 

a  place  where  it  was  possible  to  put  into  execution  plans  and 
theories  which  were  impossible  in  Europe  on  account  of  the 
interference  of  the  governments. 

Owing  to  the  great  extent  of  territory  included  in  the  United 
States  and  because  it  was  supposed  in  Europe  that  the  American 
governments  offered  no  opposition  to  the  most  radical  schemes, 
this  country  was  looked  upon  as  a  land  where  anything  that  was 
opposed  officially  in  Europe  would  be  permitted.  Already  in 
the  eighteenth  century  the  attempt  of  Coleridge  and  Southey ' 
to  found  a  "  pantisocracy"  on  the  banks  of  the  Susquehanna 
was  an  illustration  of  this  tendency  to  regard  America  as  the 
land  where  all  Utopian  schemes  were  in  order.  The  colonies  of 
Owen  and  Rapp  are  also  cases  in  point.  Later  the  plan  of 
Cabet "  to  found  a  Utopia  in  Illinois  attracted  great  attention, 
especially  among  the  working  men  of  Paris. 

The  contrast,  noticeable  in  the  differences  existing  between 
the  characters  of  the  Europeans,  and  especially  of  the  Germans 
and  Americans,  is  shown  also  in  the  fact  that  nearly  all  the 
schemes  which  had  for  their  object  the  improvement  of  man- 
kind and  the  promotion  of  happiness,  came  from  Europe. 
Though  America  was  the  land  selected  for  the  realization  of 
these  dreams,  Americans  as  a  rule  took  but  little  interest  in  all 
these  undertakings.  In  studying,  therefore,  the  history  of  the 
relations  of  the  German  immigrants  and  the  native  Americans, 
it  is  important  to  keep  in  mind  these  two  fundamental  differ- 
ences in  the  characters  of  the  two  nationalities,  which  were  here 
again  brought  face  to  face  after  a  separation  of    1500   years.^ 


^  Cf.  Joseph  Cottle's  Reminiscences  of  Samuel  Taylor  Coleridge  and  Robert 
Southey.     New  York,  1847,  p.  16  ff. 

'^  Cabet's  plan  was  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  Fourier.  In  1842  he 
published  his  work  Voyage  en  Icarie  which  immediately  attracted  widespread 
attention.  For  reviews  of  this  book,  see  Quarterly  Review,  vol.  Ixxxiii,  1S48, 
p.  165  ff.  M.  J.  A.  Bradford,  Christian  Examiner,  vol.  liii,  1852,  p.  372  ff. 
Note  also  Etienne  Cabet,  Colo?iie  oder  Republik  Icarien,  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  1853  ; 
Etienne  Cabet,  Fortschritt  der  Colonic  Icarien,  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  1S54. 

■^  Cf.  Koerner,  Das  Deutsche  Element  in  Amcrika :  "  Die  beiden  verwandten 
germanischen  Stamme,  der  Angelsachsische  and  der  Deutsche,  treffen  sich  nach 


T.  S.  Baker.  65 

The  American  was  above  all  things  practical  and  realistic,  while 
the  German  was  the  dreamer,  the  idealist.^  This  contrast  will 
explain  many  of  the  failures  with  which  the  plans  of  Germans 
met  and  also  in  part  the  opposition  to  the  immigrants,  which 
soon  after  began  to  develop. 

The  beginning  of  the  immigration  to  America  on  a  large  scale, 
that  is  about  the  year  1831,  is  to  be  attributed  to  two  causes. 
The  first  of  these  was,  of  course,  the  political  disturbances.  The 
second  was  the  publication  of  Gottfried  Duden's  Bericht  von 
einer  Reise  nach  den  ivest lichen  Staaten} 

As  a  result  of  the  July  Revolution  in  France,  there  arose  in 
Germany  a  demand  for  greater  privileges,  which  showed  itself 
in  the  uprisings  in  the  Rhenish  Palatinate  in  May,  1832,  and  in 
Frankfurt  and  Oberhessen  in  1833.  The  immediate  cause  of 
these  difficulties  was  the  so-called  "  Bundestags  Ordonnanzen"  of 
the  year  1831.  The  disorders  were  soon  suppressed,  but  the 
bitterness  felt  at  the  abolition  of  the  old  inherited  rights  was  so 
great,  that  only  a  slight  impetus  was  necessary  to  produce  the 
great  tidal  wave  of  emigration  which  followed.^     This  impulse 

fiinfzehnhundertjahriger  Trennung  wieder  auf  dem  amerikanischen  Kontinent, 
zur  gemeinsamen  Arbeit,  zur  Erweiterung  des  Reiches  der  Freiheit.  Der 
Deutsche  giebt  sein  reiches  Geistes-  und  Gemiithsleben  zu  den  Kulturelementen, 
welche  sich  auf  dem  Boden  der  neuen  Welt  frei  vertnahlen  und  stets  hohere 
Bildung  erzeugen. 

^  Cf.  Julius  Frobel,  Die  Deutsche  Auswanderung  und  ihre  Culturhistorische 
Bedeutung :  Riinfzehn  Brief e  an  den  Herausgeber  der  AUgeniei7te  Ausivander- 
ungs  Zeitung.  Leipzig,  1858,  p.  34.  "  Der  anglo-amerikanische  Realismus  und 
der  deutsche  Idealismus  sind  die  zwei  culturhistorischen  Gegensatze,  in  der  sich 
das  historische  Bewusztsem  unserer  Zeit  ausgespitzt  hat." 

^  The  full  title  of  the  book  is,  Bericht  uber  eine  Reise  nach  den  westlichen 
Staaten  Nord-Amerikas  und  einen  niehrj'dhrigen  Aufenthalt  am  Missouri  in 
den  Jahren  1824,  1825,  1826, 1S2'/  in  Bezug  auf  Auswanderung  und  Ubervolke- 
rung ;  oder,  Das  Leben  hn  Innern  der  Vereinigten  Staaten  und  desseti  Bedeu- 
tung fur  die  hausliche  und  politische  Lage  der  Europaer,  dargestellt ;  a,  itt 
emer  Sa^mnlung  von  Brief  en  ;  b,  in  einer  Abhandlung  'uber  den  potitischett 
Zustand  der  Nord  Anierikaner ;  c,  in  einevi  Nachtrage  fiir  ausiuandernde 
deutsche  Ackerwirthe  und  Diejenigen  welche  auf  Handelsunternehmungen 
denken  von  G.  D.,  2te  Ausgabe.    Bonn,  ]834. 

^  Nile's  Register,  Dec.  i,  1832,  p.  216.  "  In  the  Cassel  Advertiser  o(  October 
6,  there  are  many  announcements  of  the  sale  of  mills,  lands,  etc.,  belonging  to 
persons  who  intend  to  emigrate  in  the  Spring  to  North  America." 

5 


66  Yoiifig   Germa7ty  in  Am  erica. 

was  supplied  by  Duden's  book  which  appeared  first  in  1829.     It 
went  through  three  editions:   1829,  1834  and  1853,  respectively. 

In  the  year  1824  Duden  had  left  his  home  in  Bonn  accom- 
panied by  a  young  student,  Louis  Eversmann  by  name,  to  take 
up  his  abode  on  the  banks  of  the  Missouri.  At  this  time  few 
persons  in  Europe  had  ever  heard  of  this  river,  so  that  the  un- 
dertaking was  one  of  considerable  magnitude.  He  landed  in 
Baltimore  and  continued  his  journey  to  the  West  along  the 
famous  National  Road,  which  extended  as  far  as  Wheeling. 
From  here  the  journey  was  made  down  the  Ohio  River  to  the 
Mississippi,  and  from  the  Mississippi  to  the  Missouri.  After  a 
stay  of  three  years  in  x\merica  he  returned  to  his  old  home,  where 
the  book  was  published,  which  may  be  regarded  as  having  caused 
the  beginning  of  the  enormous  latter-day  German  emigration  to 
America.  The  work,  in  the  form  of  letters,  was  written  in  a 
somewhat  "  doctrinaire"  vein. 

It  was  Duden  who,  in  a  time  of  universal  discontent  and  un- 
certainty, directed  the  attention  of  the  German  masses  to  the 
western  parts^  of  the  American  Union,  which  were  being  settled 
just  at  that  time.  His  presentation  was  glowing  in  the  ex- 
treme. In  fact,  his  book  must  have  been  largely  the  product  of 
his  own  imagination  rather  than  the  calm  statement  of  actual 
conditions.  In  Missouri  it  w^as  possible,  according  to  him,  to 
live  with  very  little  exertion.  There  are  wonderful  descriptions 
of  the  fertility  of  the  soil,  of  the  abundance  of  game,  and  then 
the  idea  of  personal  independence  was  emphasized  very  strongly 
in  his  work. 

This  romantic  and  poetic  side  of  the  book  made  it  all  the 
more  attractive  to  the  minds  of  the  readers,  and  when  it  is  re- 
membered that  Duden  was  supposed  to  be  a  thoroughly  trust- 
worthy man — a  man  who  had  enjoyed  a  university  education, 


^  Cf.  Der  Deutsche  Piojtier,  vol.  I,  p.  244.  "Und  (Duden's)  Einflusse 
hauptsachlich  ist  es  zuzuschreiben  dasz  nach  1830  tausende  unserer  Landleute 
in  Ohio,  Missouri,  Illinois,  Indiana,  Iowa,  etc.,  sich  niederlieszen  und  daselbst 
die  Griinder  des  seitdem  so  machtig  und  einfluszreich  gevvordenen  Deutschthums 
wurden."  Cf.  also  articles  in  vol.  vi  and  vii  of  Der  Deutsche  Pionier,  on 
Zwei  Agitatoren  der  Auswanderung  ;  Gottfried  Duden  und  Franz  Joseph  Stallo. 


T.   S.  Baker.  67 

had  served  creditably  in  the  army,  and  had  occupied  important 
positions  in  the  Prussian  civil  service,  the  attention  which  his 
utterances  attracted  does  not  seem  strano-e. 

The  radical  tendencies  of  the  book  were  also  quite  in  conso- 
nance with  the  spirit  of  the  age,  so  that,  besides  being  important 
for  the  study  of  the  history  of  the  early  German  emigration  to 
America,  here  are  to  be  found  many  of  the  germs  of  the  curious 
doctrines  held  by  most  of  the  immigrants  regarding  the  future 
of  the  German  race  in  America. 

The  current  of  immigration  thus  begun  continued  with  such 
force,  and  at  the  same  time,  with  such  uniformity,  that  soon,  to 
the  German  idealist,  it  seemed  as  though  his  race  had  a  political 
mission  here  in  the  New  World  to  perform.  Visions  of  a  new 
fatherland,  without  the  oppression  and  misery  of  the  Old  World, 
rose  before  his  eyes.  How  could  the  crude  Americans  hope  to 
cope  with  the  civilization  and  culture  of  one  of  the  foremost 
nations  of  Europe?  Such  questions  as  these  the  enthusiastic 
immigrant  asked  himself  and  his  imagination  did  the  rest.  The 
whole  New  World  seemed  to  be  at  his  feet  only  awaiting  the 
arrival  of  a  race  whose  education  and  intelligence  would  make  it 
the  worthy  possessor  of  this  land  of  promise. 

The  great  body  of  immigrants  consisted,  to  be  sure,  of  peas- 
ants and  members  of  the  middle  classes,  but  along  with  these 
was  a  large  proportion  of  men  of  intelligence — university  men, 
who,  because  of  some  political  offence,  had  been  compelled  to 
flee  the  country,  and  who,  in  fleeing,  naturally  thought  of  the 
United  States  as  a  safe  place  of  refuge.  These  political  refugees 
were  the  leaders  of  thought,  the  men  who  controlled  and  directed 
the  unthinking  peasants.  They  are  the  ones  who  are  responsible 
for  the  various  "  doctrinaire"  schemes  which  already  in  the  thir- 
ties begin  to  show  themselves  in  different  parts  of  the  United 
States.  The  leaders  seem  to  have  been  thoroughly  imbued  with 
the  spirit  of  opposition  to  all  forms  of  established  government. 
This  state  of  mind  had  been  produced  by  their  long-continued 
animosity  towards  the  existing  condition  of  affairs  in  Germany. 
They  were  above  all  things  intriguers.     It  seemed  impossible 


68  Young  Germany  in  America. 

for  them  to  keep  quiet  in  a  political  sense.  One  would  have 
supposed  that  when  they  came  to  America,  where  there  was  no 
oppression  to  fight  against,  their  opposition  would  have  been 
disarmed,  and,  to  be  sure,  in  the  end  this  is  what  really  did 
occur,  not,  however,  until  they  had  worn  themselves  out  in 
planning  tremendous  political  undertakings  which  aroused  little 
interest,  except  among  their  own  numbers.  The  nature  of  these 
plans  will  be  discussed  later  on,  but  for  the  present  it  is  sufficient 
to  note  that  America  was  at  this  time  the  place  where  all  enter- 
prises, which  were  impossible  in  Europe,  were  attempted. 

It  is  further  necessary  to  emphasize  the  difference  which  exists 
between  the  immigrants  of  that  period  and  those  of  to-day. 
Political  disturbances  had  caused  a  stream  of  emigrants  to  come 
to  America,  who  were  to  a  large  extent  political  agitators.  In 
leaving  home  they  merely  changed  the  base  of  their  operations. 
The  agitation  and  opposition  continued  in  America  as  it  had 
existed  in  Germany.  To-day  the  emigrant  has  not  the  same 
stock  of  political  opinions  concerning  America  v/hich  his  father 
held  fifty  or  sixty  years  ago.  Whatever  may  be  his  state  of  mind 
regarding  the  mission  of  the  Germans  in  the  United  States,  his 
statements  are  not  so  confident,  nor  are  they  so  numerous,  as  was 
the  case  from  1830  to  1850.  The  immigrants  also  found  much 
encouragement  in  the  fact  that  in  the  past  German  attempts  at 
colonization  had  been  extremely  successful,  and,  indeed,  in  the 
face  of  much  more  formidable  opposition  than  was  offered  them 
in  this  country.'  The  attitude  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  United 
States  towards  the  immigrants  was  at  first  extremely  friendly.^ 


>  Der  Deutsche  Pionier,  vol.  ii,  p.  51  :  "  Das  Deutschthum  hat  iiberall  in  der 
Fremde  ein  zahes  Leben  geoffenbart,  Frankreich  hat  es  in  Hunderten  von  Jah- 
ren  nicht  in  Lothringen  und  im  Elsass  unterdriicken  konnen,  die  Magyaren,  die 
selbstsiichtigste  Nation  von  der  Welt,  haben  es  in  Siebenbiirgen  nicht  bemeis- 
tern  konnen,  die  Slaven  ostlich  von  der  Elbe  haben  seinem  Andrangen  nicht 
zu  widerstehen  vermocht.  Im  heutigen  Schlesien,  Brandenburg,  Mecklenburg 
und  Preuszen  leben  Millionen  Deutsche  von  undeutscher  Abstammung.  Warum 
sollte  das  Deutsche  Element  hier  in  Amerika,  wo  es  sich  nunmehr  ungehindert 
entwickeln  kann,  untergehen?" 

^  Miles'  Register,  Sept.,  1832,  Feb.,  1833,  vol.  vii,  Fourth  Series,  page  40. — 
"  The  Emigration  from  Europe  in  the  present  season  appears  much  greater 


T.  S.  Baker.  69 

They,  however,  occasionally  interposed  a  warning  objection 
when  the  talk  of  new-comers  became  too  violent  or  too  patron- 
ising. Not,  however,  until  the  rise  of  know-nothingism,  which, 
to  be  sure,  was  in  part  the  result  of  the  violent  talk  of  the 
foreigners,  did  the  Americans  show  any  real  opposition  to  the 
coming  of  the  Europeans. 

It  is  now  necessary  to  discuss  the  two  great  currents  of  immi- 
gration which  are  important  for  this  study — important  chiefly 
from  the  fact  that  the  impetus  of  both  of  them  is  to  be  found 
in  political  conditions.  They  are  the  migrations^  of  1832  and 
those  of  1848.  The  immigrants  of  these  two  different  periods 
present  certain  contrasts,  but  they  are  for  the  most  part  governed 
by  the  same  general  conditions.     In  the  case  of  the  "  Achtund- 


than  ever  it  was  before.  It  already  much  exceeds  100,000  persons,  say  50,000 
or  more  via  Quebec  and  the  remainder  by  the  way  of  New  York,  Philadelphia, 
Baltimore,  etc.  At  the  two  last  named  places,  and  especially  Baltimore  very 
many  Germans  have  arrived — hardy,  healthy  and  evidently  industrious,  the 
most  of  whom  seem  to  possess  means  of  conveying  themselves  into  the  interior, 
where  they  will  soon  be  among  the  most  valuable  of  our  citizens.  They  have 
lots  of  hearty  children,  and  it  is  very  interesting  to  contemplate  a  family  group 
of  these  strangers  preparing  for  a  start  westward.  Some  brought  their  own 
wagons  and  harness  with  them.  They  are  all  plainly  clad  in  the  costumes  of 
their  country,  but  their  clothes  are  good  and  strong  without  rents  and  well 
taken  care  of.  They  differ  as  much  from  the  loads  of  English  paupers,  which 
are  sometimes  shovelled  upon  us,  as — we  want  a  comparison — as  the  luscious 
peach  differs  from  the  bitter  Indian  turnip.  And  besides  these  Germans  will 
work  and  support  themselves,  not  fill  up  our  poor  houses."  And  again  p.  68. 
"  The  York  (Pa.)  Republican  speaking  of  the  large  number  of  Germans  who 
have  lately  passed  through  that  borough  on  their  way  to  the  immeasurable  West 
says  :  "We  learn  that  the  increasing  prospect  of  internal  commotion  in  the  Ger- 
man Empire  is  the  main  cause  of  this  emigration.  The  farmers  say  that  all 
they  raised  would  not  pay  the  impost  levied  upon  them.  We  are  further 
informed  by  some  of  the  most  intelligent  that  it  is  calculated  not  less  than 
So,ooo  are  now  moving  and  preparing  to  depart  for  this  country.  Let  them 
come — they  are  an  industrious  and  moral  race,  and  will  do  well  here.  We 
rejoice  that  our  country  presents  a  haven  where  the  weary  and  oppressed  even 
in  this  world  may  have  a  rest." 

'  Cf.  Der  Deutsche  Pionier,  vol.  vi,  p.  17.  Articles  entitled  :  "  Volkerwan- 
•derung  und  Auswanderung.  Kulturhistorische  Parallelen  iiber  die  Frage : 
Sind  Wanderungen  nach  Amerika  und  Australien  eine  Volkerwanderung  oder 
nicht?"  In  these  articles  the  emigration  to  America  is  compared  with  the 
""  Volkerwanderungen  "  of  the  Celts,  Huns,  Goths,  Vandals  and  Franks. 


70  Youjror   Gerniajiy  in  America. 

vierziger,"  however,  the  same  theories  were  carried  to  greater 
excesses  than  with  those  who  had  come  earlier.  Both  at  first 
regarded  their  stay  in  America  as  temporary.  They  wished  to 
gain  a  basis  of  operations  from  which  they  could  work  upon 
Germany.  With  this  in  mind  the  earlier  immigrants  founded 
the  society  Germania  ^  in  New  York,  the  object  of  which  was 
to  furnish  the  exiles  an  opportunity  for  keeping  together,  so  that 
as  soon  as  the  troubles  in  Germany  should  again  commence  they 
might  hasten  back  home  and  begin  again  the  fight  against  the 
governments. 

xA.s  in  the  East,  so  in  the  West,  especially  in  Indiana  and  Ohio, 
the  necessity  for  organization  was  felt  among  the  Germans,  and 
as  a  result  of  this  feeling  the  "  Deutsche  Gesellschaft"  was 
founded  in  Cincinnati  in  July,  1834.  Its  declared  object  was  as 
follows :  "  Damit  wir  als  Burger  der  Vereinigten  Staaten  den- 
jenigen  Antheil  an  der  Volksherrschaft  nehmen  konnen,  den 
uns  Pflicht  und  Recht  gebieten."  In  1836,  in  Philadelphia, 
another  society  was  formed  :  "  Zur  Unterstiitzung  politischer 
Fliichtlinge,  welche  aus  der  Schweiz  vertrieben,  in  London  zum 
Theil  in  bitterster  Armuth  lebten  und  Mittel  suchten  fiir  ihre 
Ueberfahrt  nach  Amerika."^  The  Gutenbergfest,  June,  1840, 
also  afforded  an  opportunity  to  the  Germans  in  America  to  show 
that  there  still  existed  a  feeling  for  the  Fatherland  in  their  new 
homes.     This  day  was  celebrated  in  Philadelphia,  Richmond, 


■''  Koerner,  Das  Deutsche  Element,  p.  108.  The  object  of  the  Society 
"  Germania  "  founded  on  the  24th  of  January,  1S35,  as  contained  in  its  constitu- 
tion was  as  follows : 

"Die  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Amerika  wohnenden  Deutschen  enger 
zu  vereinigen,  um  einen  kraftigen  deutschen  Character,  gute  deutsche  Sitten 
und  deutsche  Bildung  zu  erhalten  und  zu  befordern,  die  Prinzipien  einer  reinen 
Demokratie  im  neuen  Vaterland  zu  unterstiitzen,  die  Liebe  und  Anhanglichkeit 
zum  alten  Vaterland  zu  nahren,  und  mit  dahin  zu  arbeiten,  dasz  sobald  als 
moglich  aiich  ifi  Deidschland  ein  bessercr  Ziistand  herbeigefiihrt  werde,  dem 
ahnlich,  dessen  man  sich  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  erfreut,  und  deutsche 
politische  Fliichtlinge  mit  Rath  und  That  zu  unterstiitzen."  The  society  appears 
openly  for  the  first  time  on  the  occasion  of  the  celebration  of  the  Fourth  of 
July  of  the  same  year.     It  attracted  widespread  attention. 

*  Cf.  Koerner,  Das  Deutsche  Element,  p.  76. 


T.  S.  Baker.  71 

Cincinnati,  and  in  Canton,  Ohio.  The  great  Hambnrg  fire  in 
1842  also  called  forth  mnch  sympathy  in  America,  a  committee 
being  appointed  in  Philadelphia  to  collect  funds  for  the  relief 
of  the  sufferers. 

The  enthusiasm  for  the  struggles  in  the  Fatherland,  however, 
soon  began  to  cool.  The  new-comers  became  so  much  interested 
in  the  wonderful  business  activity  of  the  United  States  that  they 
were  gradually  swallowed  up  in  it,  so  that  their  interest  in  what 
was  going  on  in  Europe  was  soon  lost.  They  became  successful 
merchants,  manufacturers,  editors,  physicians,  and  even  lawyers. 
This  cooling  off  in  their  patriotism  was  also  caused  partly  by 
the  fact  that  the  excitement  had  partially  subsided  in  Germany. 
Although  the  oppression  continued,  the  resistance  was  kept  down 
so  firmly  that  it  was  felt  to  be  impossible  to  accomplish  anything. 
For  several  years,  therefore,  before  the  arrival  of  the  "  Achtund- 
vierziger"  business  interests  had  so  occupied  the  attention  of  the 
German- Americans  that  they  almost  lost  sight  of  what  was  going 
on  in  the  Fatherland. 

Accordingly,  when  the  "  Achtundvierziger"  came,  bringing 
with  them  radical  theories  in  regard  to  the  position  due  the 
Germans  in  America,  they  were  in  many  instances  received 
coldly,  and  sometimes  with  hostility.  They  had  left  their 
homes  as  political  fugitives,  and  in  coming  to  America  had  ex- 
pected to  be  received  with  open  arms  by  the  Germans,  and  to  be 
treated  as  martyrs  to  the  sacred  cause  of  liberty.  They  were, 
to  a  large  extent,  men  of  education,*  but  entirely  unpractical. 
The  hardships  of  a  pioneer's  life  were  unsuited  to  their  former 
manner  of  life.  Many  of  them  were  unable  to  adapt  themselves 
to  their  new  surroundings  and  were  compelled  to  accept  what- 
ever offered  itself  as  a  means  of  support.  Some  went  into  news- 
paper work,  and  it  is  at  this  period  that  many  of  the  German- 
American  newspapers  were  founded. 

The  "  x\chtundvierziger"  ^  looked  upon  the  Germans  who  had 

^  It  is  necessary  to  remember  that  the  name  "Achtundvierziger"  is  applied  not 
only  to  those  who  came  ni  the  year  1848,  but  also,  to  those  coming  in  the  next 
few  years.  As  a  matter  of  fact  only  a  few  of  the  so-called  "Achtundvierziger" 
came  in  this  year.  Not  until  the  years  1S50  and  1851  did  the  number  of  exiles 
become  larsre. 


72  Young  Germany  in  America. 

come  before  them  as,  to  certain  degree,  traitors  to  the  cause  of 
German  liberty.  They  had  become  entirely  too  good  Americans, 
and  had  almost  given  up  their  nationality.  Two  parties  were 
formed.  The  "  Zweiunddreisziger"  were  dubbed  "  Die  Grauen" 
and  the  "  Achtundvierziger"  "  Die  Griinen."  The  "Grauen" 
refused  to  allow  themselves  to  be  treated  as  school  boys  by  the 
*'  Griinen,"  so  the  relations  between  the  two  parties  became 
strained.  Concessions  were,  however,  in  time  made  on  both 
sides. 

The  forty-eighters  acknowledged  the  immense  difficulties  with 
which  those  had  been  compelled  to  contend  who  had  come  wdien 
the  country  was  in  an  entirely  uncultivated  condition.  While 
the  other  party  recognised  the  spirit  animating  the  new-comers^ 
and  felt  that  the  German-Americans  would  later  be  grateful  to 
them  for  their  efforts  to  awaken  interest  in  culture  in  the  New 
World.2 

The  "Achtundvierziger"  were  even  to  a  less  degree  bona  fide 
residents  of  the  United  States  than  those  who  had  come  over  in 
1832  and  the  following  years.  Arrived  here  they  waited  from 
month  to  month  expecting  new  outbreaks^  in  Europe  which 
would  make  it  possible  for  them  to  return  and  to  recommence 
their  opposition  to  the  governments.     They  regarded  their  stay 


'  Der  Deutsche  Pionier,  vol  v,  p.  102,  ff.  "Diese  {i.  e.  die  'Achtundvierziger') 
brachten  nicht  die  Sucht  nach  Gelderwerb,  sondern  sie  brachten  Ideen  und 
kulturhistorische  Bestrebungen  auf  amerikanischen  Boden  mit.  Mag  das  Ztel, 
fiir  dessen  Erreichung  die  deujsche  Jugend  Freiheit,  Blut,  Leben  luid  das 
Aufenthaltsrecht  im  Vaterlande  opferte,  zu  weit  gesteckt  gewesen  sein,  die 
Bewegung  von  1848  hat  dennoch  den  Anstoss  zu  neuem  Aufleben  der  erschlaff- 
ten  deutschen  Nation  in  beiden  Welten  gegeben." 

'^  Der  Deutsche  Piofiier,  vol.  ix,  p.  59.  "AUes  was  die  Deutschen  hier 
besitzen,  unsere  Presse,  taglich,  wochentlich,  monatlich,  unser  Yereinswesen, 
unsereTurn-  Schiitzen-  und  Gesang-vereine,  unsere  Biihne  und  unsere  Bildungs- 
anstalten,  ist  zum  groszten  Theil  das  Werk  der  Achtundvierziger.  .  .  .  Mit 
den  Achtundvierzigern  geht  die  Bliithezeit  des  Deutsch-Amerikanischen  Lebens 
dahin,  und  nach  dem  gibt  es  nur  ein  rascheres  oder  langsameres  Sterben,  wenn 
nicht  unvorhergesehene  auszere  Umstande  eintreten  und  der  ganzen  Sache 
einen  neuen  Geist  und  neuem  Leben  den  Impuls  verleihen." 

^  Many  of  those  who  had  come  over  in  the  thirties  hastened  back  when  the 
disturbances  of  the  year  1848  became  known  in  America. 


T.  S.  Baker.  73 

here  as  merely  transient,  and  hence  they  opposed,  strenuously, 
all  efforts  which  tended  to  make  them  less  German. 

The  widespread  interest  in  revolutionary  attempts  in  Europe 
among  the  German-Americans  made  them  believe  that  it  was 
possible  to  obtain  moral  and  even  more  substantial  support  ^ 
here  in  America.  The  news  of  the  outbreak  of  the  February 
Revolution  and  of  the  uprisings  in  Germany  which  followed  it 
was  received  with  very  great  enthusiasm  in  many  parts  of  the 
United  States.  In  St.  Louis,  on  the  15th  of  April,  1848,  a  large 
mass  meeting,  presided  over  by  Dr.  George  Engelman,  was  held 
before  the  court-house — it  having  been  impossible  to  secure  a 
hall  large  enough  to  hold  everybody  who  wished  to  attend. 
Speeches  were  made  by  several  of  the  most  prominent  Germans 
in  the  city  and  committees  on  finance  and  for  the  dissemination 
of  information  were  appointed.  The  mayor  and  the  city  council 
were  asked  to  assist  in  arranging  a  great  demonstration  at  first 
set  for  April  20th,  which  was,  however,  not  held  until  the  26th. 
All  nationalities  living  in  the  city — French,  Italians,  Poles,  Irish 
and  Americans  took  part  in  it,  but  the  moving  spirits  were  for 
the  most  part  Germans.  It  was  one  of  the  most  elaborate  affairs 
that  had  ever  been  arranged  in  St.  Louis.  The  German  mili- 
tary companies  and  singing  societies,  together  with  several  Irish 
and  Roman  Catholic  societies,  formed  a  procession  in  the  morn- 
ing, which  passed  through  the  principal  streets,  and  the  festivi- 
ties were  concluded  in  the  evening  with  a  torchlight  procession. 
A  similar  demonstration  was  also  held  in  Buffalo. 

The  Pittsburg  Courier  oi  the  3d  of  May,  1848,  gives  a  lengthy 
account  of  the  founding  of  a  "  Republikanischer  Freiheitsverein" 
in  Pittsburg.  A  largely  attended  meeting  was  held  at  the  court- 
house, at  which  prominent  German  citizens  delivered  speeches 
upon  the  condition  of  affairs  in  Europe.^     Still  another  demon- 

'  Immediately  after  the  announcement  of  the  breaking  out  of  the  revolution 
of  1848  in  Germany,  societies  were  formed  in  Louisville  and  elsewhere  for  the 
support  of  the  fugitives. 

''■  The  following  resolutions  were  passed:  "i.  Beschlossen:  dass  die  Deutschen 
in  und  um  Pittsburg  einen  Verein  griinden,  welcher  den  Namen  fiihre,  '  Repu- 
blikanischer Freiheits-Verein.'  Der  Zvveck  des  Vereins  ist  :  Unsere  deutschen 
Briider  zur  Erlangung  ihrer  Freiheit  in  der  Weise  zu  unterstiitzen,— 


74  Vo/cn^  Germany  m  America. 

stration  was  held,  and  this  time  in  Cincinnati.'  A  permanent 
organization  was  effected,  officers  being  elected  and  committees 
appointed.  At  this  meeting  resolutions  were  passed  asking 
"  Das  Deutsche  Liebhaber  Theater"  and  the  "  Iviedertafel"  to 
give  performances  for  the  benefit  of  what  was  called  the  "  Revo- 
lutionscasse."  It  was  furthermore  decided  to  ask  permission  to 
take  up  collections  in  the  churches.  This  was  actually  done  on 
the  four  Sundays  following  the  meeting.  In  addition  to  this 
"  Die  deutschen  Frauen  und  Jungfrauen  wurden  gebeten,  eine 
schwarz-roth-goldene  Fahne  anzufertigen,  die  dann  dem  ersten 
deutschen  Freistaate  zugeschickt  werden  soUte."  ^ 

On  the  1 2th  of  January  of  the  year  following  a  fair  was  held 
in  Cincinnati  to  raise  money  to  aid  the  revolutionary  movements 
that  were  then  taking  place  in  Germany.  In  this  undertaking 
the  women  were  chiefly  active.  In  January  of  the  same  year 
in  Belleville,  111.,  a  bazaar  was  also  held  for  this  purpose. 
Another  society  was  founded  in  Glasgow,  Mo.,  on  the  15th  of 
February,  1849,  which  was,  however,  not  so  important  as  those 
above  mentioned,  formed  in  the  larger  cities. 

These  demonstrations  and  the  formation  of  societies  show 
that  there  still  existed  among  the  Germans  in  America  an  in- 
terest in  the  affairs  of  the  Fatherland  in  spite  of  the  fact  that 
they  had  given  up  a  great  many  of  their  most  radical  theories, 
and  had  devoted  themselves  to  business  pursuits  rather  than 
politics.  It  was,  therefore,  natural  that  the  "  Achtundvierziger," 
in  hearing  of  the  enthusiasm  which  the  events  in  Europe  called 
forth,  supposed  that  their  arrival  in  America  would  be  looked 


a.  dass  solche  politische  Fliichtlinge  Deutschlands  welche  als  kiihne  und 
thatige  Verfechter  der  Freiheit  bekannt  sind,  und  die  der  ferneren  Tbatigkeit 
entbehren,  und 

b.  dass  die  hilflosen  Hinterbliebenen  der  fiir  die  Freiheit  Gefallenen  unter- 
stiizt  werden.  Mittel  zu  obigem  Zvvecke  .  .  .  Griindung  eines  Fonds.  i.  Durch 
Collection  bei  der  Massenversammlung.  2.  durch  Sammeln  von  Unterschriften 
Solcher,  welche  einen  periodischen  (z.  b.  monatlicher)  beliebigen  Beitrag 
liefern." 

^  Cf.  Der  Deutsche  Pionicr,  vol.  v,  p.  55,  ff. 
^  Der  Deutsche  Piojiier,  vol.  v,  p.  52. 


T.  S.  Baker.  75 

forward  to  with  pleasure.     As  has  been  shown  they  were  disap- 
pointed in  that  they  were,  in  certain  quarters,  received  coldly. 
Nevertheless,  many  circumstances  seemed  to  contribute  to  in- 
crease the  confidence  of  the  new  comers  in  the  belief  that  the 
time  was  peculiarly  appropriate  for  the  carrying  out  of  radical 
plans  in  America.     Not  only  were  the  Germans  in  America  in- 
terested in  the  success  of  the  revolutions  in  Europe,  but  also  the 
native  Americans  showed  very  great  enthusiasm  in  this  direc- 
tion.     A  wave   of    revolutionary  zeal  swept  over  the  United 
States  beginning  early  in  the  forties  and  continuing  through  the 
decade  into  the  fifties.^      The  Hungarian  struggle  for  indepen- 
dence was  watched  with  great  interest  in  the  United  States.  .  .  . 
The  Americans  seemed  to  see  in  this  a  repetition  of  their  fight 
against  England.    The  enthusiastic  reception  given  Kossuth,  in 
1851  and  1852,  was  also  occasioned  by  this  feeling.     Besides, 
the  Polish  refugees  were  treated  very  handsomely  by  the  Amer- 
icans.^    In  fact,  so  much  interest  had  been  shown  by  the  Amer- 
icans in  the  Poles  and  Hungarians  that  the  Germans  ventured 
to  ask  Congress  for  a  land  grant  upon  which  they  might  found 
a  state  where  all  the  exiles  could  assemble  in  safety.    This  peti- 
tion was,  however,  not  granted. 

Another  remarkable  event  as  showing  the  interest  among  the 
Germans  in  the  revolutionary  cause  at  home  was  the  tour  of 
Gottfried  Kinkel  through  the  United  States.  This  journey  was 
undertaken  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  money  for  the  support 
of  the  revolutionists  at  home.  Although  it  was  not  so  successful 
as  had  been  expected,  a  considerable  amount  of  money  was  ob- 

1  Cf.  Von  Hoist  Constitutional  History  of  the  United  States,  vol.  iii,  p.  556. 
"The  ideal  impulse  that  ran  through  Europe  in  1843  had  found  a  sympathetic 
disposition  of  mind  in  the  United  States.  As  then,  after  a  short  time  the  reaction 
gained  a  preponderance,  so  here,  too,  a  strong  opposition  soon  set  in.  People 
it  is  true,  continued  to  hold  forth  violently  about  European  tyrants,  bade  the 
fugitives  heartily  welcome  and  feted  the  Hungarian  champions  of  liberty  in 
particular  in  an  absurd  and  almost  unworthy  fashion,  but  a  materialistic  spirit 
was  taking  possession  of  daily  wider  circles  of  the  people— a  spirit  that  readily 
allowed  twice  two  to  be  three  in  matters  of  ideal  interest  provided  it  could 
make  twice  two  five  where  material  interests  were  concerned." 

2  A  land  grant  was  offered  the  Polish  refugees  by  Congress,  but  it  was  declined. 


76  Yo2ing   Geyma7iy  in  America. 

tained.  Kinkel  had  hoped  to  revolutionize  Germany  by  means 
of  a  two  million  loan. 

Encouraged,  therefore,  by  the  great  interest  among  the  Ger- 
mans in  revolutionary  undertakings  and  by  the  lenient  and 
somewhat  careless  attitude  of  the  Americans,  the  "  Achtund- 
vierziger,"  soon  after  their  arrival  in  America,  began  to  lay 
plans  for  the  founding  of  a  new  home  that  should  have  all  the 
blessings  of  the  old  Fatherland,  at  the  same  time  doing  away 
with  its  grievances  and  faults.  They  confidently  believed  that 
sooner  or  later  the  United  States  would  be  Germanized.  This 
was  to  be  accomplished  in  two  ways  :  First,  from  the  intellectual 
superiority  of  the  Germans,  it  was  supposed  that  the  native 
Americans  would  not  be  able  to  resist  them.^  Second,  they 
proposed  to  found  German  states  in  different  parts  of  the  United 
States,  and  with  these  as  centres  to  act  upon  the  surrounding 
territory  and  gradually  to  bring  it  under  the  German  sway. 

According  to  the  former  of  these  plans  the  conquest  of  America 
would  at  first  be  intellectual,  and  proceeding  from  this,  political. 
The  process  of  Germanization  would  be  somewhat  slow,  but 
none  the  less  sure.  An  anonymous  correspondent  from  America 
of  the  Gartenlaube  for  1856,  page  109,  in  article  on  "  Die  Deut- 
schen  in  America"  in  discussing  this  subject,  makes  the  following 
statement :  "  Die  deutschen  Familien  mit  ihren  gesellschaftlichen 
Turn-  Musik-  und  Gesangfesten  wirken  unter  diesen  Amerikanern 
bios  dadurch,  dasz  sie  unter  ihnen  leben  als  Missionare.  In 
Amerika  wird  das  Germanenthum  seine  Mission  am  ersten  erfiil- 
len,  well  es  hier  die  meisten  Vertreter  und  Streiter  findet.  Diese 
Mission  erfiillt  sich  ohne  Aufsehen  sicher,  ununterbrochen  durch 
bloszes  deutsches  Leben,  Arbeiten,  Produciren,  Essen  und  Trin- 
ken,  Wirthschaften,  Turnen  und  Tanzen,  durch  gedrucktes,  ge- 
sungenes  und  gesprochenes  Wort.  Diese  Art  der  Wirksamkeit 
ist  unscheinbar,  unmerklich,  unbesiegbar,  nicht  durch  einzelne 

1  Cf.  The  New  Rome  or  The  United  States  of  the  World  by  Charies  Goepp 
and  Theodor  Poesche.  "Their  {i.  e.  the  Germans)  duty  is  that  of  the  exile 
of  Constantinople  after  its  destruction  by  the  Ottomans  :  The  Revival  of  letters 
in  the  West. 


T.  S.  Baker.  77 

Anstrengungen  und  Siege  aiif   welche  eine  Niederlage  folgen 
konnte." 

The  second  and  more  important  way  of  Germanizing  America 
was  by  founding  states  in  different  parts  of  the  United  States, 
and,  proceeding  from  these  states  as  centers,  it  was  expected  that 
in  time  the  whole  country  would  be  won.  Were  these  colonies 
to  become  states  in  the  Union,  or  were  they  to  be  independent  ?  ^ 
It  will  be  shown  in  some  cases  it  was  expected  that  they  would 
be  incorporated  in  the  American  Union,  but  for  the  most  part  it 
was  proposed  to  make  them  independent.  At  first  these  plans 
had  been  elaborated  in  Germany  ;  soon,  however,  in  the  larger 
cities  of  the  United  States  similar  schemes  were  discussed,  and 
in  some  cases  attempted.  The  most  important  of  the  early 
societies  formed  for  founding  German  states  was  the  "Giessener 
Auswanderungs  Gesellschaft."  ^    This  association  was  formed  in 


1  Cf.  Niles  Register,  p.  148;  "  Wholesale  Emigration.  The  Stuttgart  Uni- 
versal Gazette  of  September  2nd,  announces  that  a  plan  is  in  progress  in  the 
southwest  of  Germany,  to  make  up  a  state  and  ship  it  over  to  the  United  States 
to  become  a  twenty-fifth  member  of  the  confederacy.  The  following  notice  of 
the  project  appears  in  that  publication  :  '  According  to  accounts  from  the  south- 
west of  Germany  a  society  of  liberal  men  are  organizing  a  grand  plan  for  emi- 
grating to  North  America. 

The  emigration  has  hitherto  been  precarious  because  it  did  not  rest  on  any 
solid  foundation  and  because  the  means  were  not  concentrated.  But  now  it  is 
different,  as  the  object  is  to  form  a  New  Germany  beyond  the  ocean,  which  is 
to  receive  all  those  whose  hopes  and  claims  to  liberty  and  right  are  disappointed 
in  old  Germany.  In  order  to  be  admitted  into  the  confederation  of  the  United 
States  of  America  the  law  requires  the  number  of  free  inhabitants  above  25 
years  of  age  to  be  60,000  and  this  number  is  to  be  assembled  before  any  further 
measures  can  be  taken.  Many  of  the  Germans  established  in  North  America 
will  join  their  countrymen  and  the  plan  is  so  popular  in  Germany  that  scarcely 
any  doubts  are  entertained  of  its  being  successful. 

We  shall  bid  them  welcome  when  they  arrive,  but  the  idea  of  forming  a  state 
is  chimerical  and  would  be  injurious  on  many  accounts.  There  is  a  mistake  as 
to  the  number  of  persons,  etc.,  required  to  form  a  state  which  also  cannot  be 
formed  unless  after  passing  through  a  territorial  government,  etc." 

■^  "  Die  Bildung  eines  deutschen  Staates,  der  natiirlich  ein  Glied  der  Vereinig- 

ten  Staaten  werden   miiszte,    doch   mit  Aufrechterhaltung  einer  Staatsform, 

welche  das  Fortbestehen  deutscher  Gesittung,  deutscher  Sprache  sichert  und 

ein  achtes  freies  und  volkstiimliches  Leben  schafft." 

The  above  is  stated  as  the  object  of  the  Giessener  Gesellschaft  as  contained 


78  Young   Germany  in  America. 

Giessen  in  the  year  1S33.  The  membership  consisted  of  Hes- 
sians, Westphalians  and  inhabitants  of  the  "  Main  Lands"  and 
the  Saxon  duchies.  They  were  for  the  most  part  well-to-do  and 
educated  men.  The  leader  was  Paul  FoUen.  Follen  was  one 
of  those  who  had  been  much  disappointed  at  the  result  of  the 
uprisings  in  1833.  In  consequence  of  this  feeling  he  published 
his  "  Aufruf  "  for  a  meeting  of  those  persons  who  were  dissatis- 
fied with  affairs  at  home  and  who  were  willing  to  try  their  for- 
tunes in  the  New  World.  At  the  meeting  which  was  held  an 
emigration  society  was  formed. 

Missouri  ^  was  selected  as  the  place  of  settlement,  and  two 
members  were  sent  over  to  fix  upon  a  suitable  spot  for  the  pro- 
posed colony.^  Upon  their  return  an  adverse  report  was  made 
and  they  both  refused  to  go  back  to  America.  Follen  was,  how- 
ever, not  discouraged.  He  succeeded  in  getting  together  a  party 
of  over  two  hundred,  and  the  first  section  left  Giessen  in  Feb- 
ruary, 1834,  under  his  leadership.  The  ship  "  Olbers"  had  been 
chartered,  and  the  party  left  Bremen  in  the  latter  part  of  the 
same  month.  On  board  the  ship  dissensions  arose  which  already 
seriously  threatened  the  success  of  the  undertaking.  After  the 
arrival  of  the  party  in  America  these  dissensions  became  more 
violent,  so  that  during  the  journey  to  the  West  a  troop  of  colon- 
ists deserted  at  every  stop.  Those  few  who  got  as  far  as  St. 
Louis  secured  land  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  city.  Paul 
Follen  bought  the  farm  that  had  been  owned  by  Duden,  where 
he  lived  for  a  long  while.  It  became  necessary  to  give  up  the 
original  intention  of  forming  a  state.      The  party  which  had 


in  a  pamphlet  called  Auffordencng  und  Erkldrimg  in  Beireff  einer  Auswan- 
derung  tin  Groszen  aus  Deidschland  in  die  Nordamerikanischen  Freistaaten. 
Giessen  1833.  Cf.  Der  Deutsche  Pionier,  vol.  i,  p.  22.  Koerner,  Das  Deutsche 
Element,  p.  300  ff. 

^  The  selection  of  Missouri  was  due  solely  to  the  influence  of  Duden's  book. 
After  the  arrival  of  the  society  in  America,  the  members  found  that  Duden's 
descriptions  had  been  overdrawn  and  he  is  called  in  the  letters  written  home, 
"Duden  der  Liigenhund." 

^  Cf.  The  plan  of  Lenau  to  come  to  America  in  advance  of  the  emigration 
society  (of  which  he  was  a  member)  to  select  land. 


T.  S.  Baker'.  79 

started  out  from  Germany  became  so  scattered  that  any  attempt 
of  this  kind  was  impossible.  The  whole  enterprise  ended  in 
disaster. 

The  failure  of  this  colony  was  a  great  blow  to  the  progress 
of  the  Germanisation  of  America/  In  leaving  Germany  they 
had  expected  to  found  in  America  a  "  New  Germany,"  which  at 
first  would  be  one  of  the  United  States,  but  would  still  have 
such  a  form  of  government  as  would  insure  the  preservation  of 
the  German  language  and  the  German  manner  of  life.  Exten- 
sive preparations  had  been  made.^  There  was  no  lack  of  intel- 
ligence, money  or  enthusiasm — the  chief  reason  for  its  failure 
was  the  lack  of  accurate  knowledge  of  America  and  the  romantic, 
rather  than  practical  character  of  the  undertaking. 

A  great  many  other  smaller  societies  ^  were  founded  upon  the 
model  of  the  Giessen  Society,  but  they  met  with  no  more  suc- 
cess. The  colonists  immediately  after  landing  generally  became 
scattered.  Whatever  might  have  been  the  lofty  ideals  of  the 
immigrants  before  leaving  Germany  regarding  their  mission  in 
the  United  States,  as  soon  as  they  landed  every  one  felt  it  im- 
perative to  look  out  for  his  own  interest. 

One  of.  the  most  ambitious  of  the  attempts  to  found  a  state 
which  had  their  origin  in  America  was  the  society  founded  in 
Philadelphia  in  1836.  The  following  was  announced  as  its 
object:  "  Einigung  der  Deutschen  in  Nord-Amerika  und  dadurch 
Begriindung  eines  neuen  deutschen  Vaterlandes."    A  preliminary 


^  A  second  company  of  emigrants  was  sent  out  by  this  same  society  later  in 
the  year,  under  the  leadership  of  Friedrich  Miinch.  In  this  party  there  were 
sixty  families,  three  hundred  and  fifty  persons  in  all.  One-half  of  these  were 
from  Thuringia  and  the  other  half  from  Hessen.  After  a  voyage  of  eight  weeks, 
on  the  Ship  "Medora,"  they  arrived  in  Baltimore  in  August,  1834.  They 
arrived  in  St.  Louis  in  September. 

-  Along  with  a  great  many  useless  things,  a  large  bell  was  brought  which  was 
to  be  hung  in  the  city  hall  of  the  new  city.  This  found  its  resting-place  in  a 
stable.     A  telescope,  which  had  been  brought  along,  fared  little  better. 

■'  One  of  these  was  the  so-called  "  Rheinhessische  oder  Wormser  Gesellschaft" 
which  settled  in  Arkansas  in  1S33.  The  leader  of  the  company  was  the  much 
persecuted  Pfarrer  Klingenhofer.  The  company  consisted  of  about  60  persons. 
It  was  also  short  lived. 


8o  Young  Germany  in  America. 

meeting  was  held  in  the  Penn  Hotel,  in  Philadelphia,  on  the  19th 
of  August,  1836,  for  the  purpose  of  organization.  At  a  later 
meeting  officers  were  elected  from  among  the  representative 
German-American  residents  of  the  city.  A  committee  was  ap- 
pointed to  find  a  suitable  site  for  the  proposed  state.  It  was 
decided  to  make  the  society  a  stock  company,  and  in  selling  the 
stock  no  difficulty  whatever  was  experienced.  Very  great  en- 
thusiasm prevailed.  One  of  the  speakers  at  the  meeting  at 
which  the  constitution  was  ratified  is  said  to  have  made  the 
following  remark :  "  Ja  wahrlich  deutsche  Briider,  wenn  je  etwas, 
Groszes  und  Glanzendes  fiir  die  deutsche  Nation  in  diesem  Frei- 
heitslande  entstehen  soil,  so  musz  es  diese  Gesellschaft  werden." 
More  than  twelve  thousand  acres  of  land  were  bought  in  Gas- 
conade County,  on  the  Missouri  River,  and  the  city  of  Hermann 
was  founded.  The  land  that  was  not  occupied  by  the  city  was 
divided  into  farms,  which  were  sold  at  a  moderate  price.  Some 
of  the  settlers  came  in  1837,  but  it  was  not  until  1838  that  the 
great  body  of  colonists  arrived.  In  some  respects  the  affair  was 
a  great  success.  It  was  in  the  first  place  managed  by  men  who 
were  familiar  with  the  business  methods  of  the  United  States. 
This  was  a  decided  advantage  over  the  attempts  which  had  their 
orio-in  entirely  in  Germany.  Many  found  here  comfortable 
homes  in  a  healthy  and  beautiful  country.  The  political  part 
of  the  original  program,  however,  met  with  no  success,  inasmuch 
as  the  colony  had  no  Germanizing  influence  whatever  outside 
its  own  borders. 

At  this  time  Texas  offered  a  good  field  for  undertakings  of 
this  kind.  The  first  plan  of  German  colonization  in  this  State 
was  the  one  which  had  its  origin  in  New  York  in  1839.  The 
"  Germania"  Society,  on  the  2d  of  November  of  this  year,  sent 
out  from  New  York  a  company  of  130  persons  to  found  a  Ger- 
man state  in  Texas.  The  members  of  this  company  had  pledged 
themselves  to  cultivate  a  tract  of  land  in  common  for  a  period 
of  three  years.  At  the  expiration  of  this  time  the  land  would 
be  divided.  The  voyage  from  New  York  to  Galveston  was  made 
on  the  brig  "  North,"  which  belonged  to  the  Society.     Provisions 


T.  S.  Baker.  8i 

to  last  six  or  eight  months  had  been  procured  before  leaving 
Nev/  York,  together  with  all  sorts  of  farming  implements,  etc. 
Shortly  after  the  arrival  the  president  and  several  other  officers 
of  the  Society  fled,  taking  with  them  all  the  money  that  was  in 
the  treasury.  The  success  of  this  undertaking  was  no  greater 
than  those  already  mentioned. 

In  the  year  1841  a  communistic  society  was  founded  in  Phila- 
delphia under  the  leadership  of  Heinrich  Ginal,  a  free-thinking 
clergyman.  It  consisted  of  300  persons  and  was  located  in 
McKean  County,  Pennsylvania.  The  settlement  was  called 
Teutonia.  A  city  was  laid  out,  which  became  known  as  Ginals- 
burg.  Its  growth  was  slow,  and  when  the  colony  went  to  pieces, 
in  1844,  there  were  not  more  than  400  members.  This  scheme 
was,  strictly  speaking,  socialistic  rather  than  political.^ 

The  most  notable  of  these  societies,  both  because  of  its  mag- 
nitude and  because  of  its  official  backing,  was  the  so-called 
"  Adelsverein."  This  was  the  first  attempt  that  had  ever  been 
made  to  found  a  German  colony  in  America  under  official  pat- 
ronage.^    The  position  of  the  Germ  an  governments  had,  on  the 


^  Cf.  also  Weitling's  Republik  der  Arbeiter  which  had  its  origin  in  New  York. 
Its  object  was  the  emancipation  of  labor  from  capital.  Weitlung  was  editor  of 
the  communistic  journal  Die  junge  Generation.  Cf.  Fenner  von  Fenneberg 
Transatlantische  Studien.     Stuttgart,  1861. 

"Herr  Wilhelm  Weitling,  friiher  durch  seine  eifrige  Bevorwortung  commu- 
nistischer  Grundsatze  bekannt,  hat  schon  seit  mehreren  Jahren  in  Folge  bitterer 
Erfahrungen,  das  Unhaltbare  solcher  Ideen  erkannt,  und  ist  gegenwartig  ein 
Beamter  in  der  Kanzlei  der  Emigrations-Commission,  und  vertritt  mit  Eifer  die 
Interessen  seiner  Landsleute." 

A  similar  socialistic  society  was  also  started  in  Philadelphia  and  was  to  be 
located  in  Northern  Virginia,  where  a  large  tract  of  land  had  been  bought. 
Cf.  Koerner,  Das  Deutsche  Element,  p.  90,  ff. 

Later  the  "  Ansiedlungsverein  des  Sozialistischen  Turnerbundes  von  Nord- 
amerika"  founded  the  town  of  New  Ulm  in  Minnesota  in  1855.  It  was  to  be  a 
sort  of  socialistic  settlement. 

2  In  the  year  1843  an  attempt  had  been  made  to  found  a  Belgian  and  German 
colony  in  East  Tennessee,  which,  however,  came  to  nothing  because  of  the 
refusal  of  the  Legislature  to  grant  permission.  The  King  of  Belgium  was  at  the 
head  of  this  affair.  This  same  society  founded  later  the  colonies  St.  Thomas 
de  Guatemala  and  St.  Katharina  in  Brazil. 


82  Young   Germany   in   America. 

whole,  not  been  inimical  to  the  emigration  to  America,'  although 
they  were  for  a  long  time  at  a  loss  to  know  how  to  turn  it  to 
their  profit.  On  the  20th  of  April,  1842,  an  address  was  issued 
by  Duke  Adolph,  of  Nassau,  and  twelve  other  German  princes 
and  nobles  relative  to  the  founding  of  a  German  colony  in  Texas. 
In  May,  1842,  Graf  Joseph  von  Boos-Waldeck  and  Graf  Victor 
von  Leiningen  came  to  Texas  to  inspect  the  country  and  to  de- 
cide upon  a  suitable  site  for  the  future  settlement.  Boos-Waldeck 
remained  and  founded  the  plantation  "  Nassau,"  on  Jack  Creek, 
while  Leiningen  returned  in  May,  1843,  and  gave  a  favorable 
report  of  the  country. 

As  said  before  Texas  at  this  time  was  peculiarly  suited  to  un- 
dertakings of  this  sort.  It  was  an  independent  state,  very 
sparsely  settled,  and  at  the  same  time  covering  an  immense  ter- 
ritory. The  soil  was  fertile  and  the  climate  delightful.  Every- 
thing seemed  to  contribute  to  make  this  undertaking  successful, 
both  commercially  and  politically.  England  is  said^  to  have 
been  favorably  disposed  toward  the  plan  and  was  ready  to  assist 
with  money.  This  friendliness  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain  is 
to  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  the  British  saw  in  this  an  op- 
portunity for  a  foreign  power  to  gain  a  foot-hold  in  America. 
The  plan  became  widely  known  and  met  with  approbation  in 
all  parts  of  Germany.  It  was  generally  spoken  of  as  the  "  Main- 
zer  Adelsverein." -^     The  following  were  among  the  members: 


^  They,  however,  viewed  with  alarm  the  revolutionary  agitation  which  was 
being  continued  in  America  against  the  governments.  On  this  account  the 
circulation  in  most  of  the  German  States  of  Die  Alte  mid  Neue  Welt  along  with 
certain  New  York  newspapers  was  forbidden  by  the  censorship.  Cf.  Koerner, 
p.  76. 

•^  Eickhoff  In  der  Neuen  Heiniat,  p.  325  :  ' '  England  welches  dem  Anschlusse 
des  Freistaates  an  die  Amerikansche  Union  entgegen  war,  lachelte  ermuthigend 
nach  Mainz  hiniiber  und  wiirde  ohne  Zweifel  das  Unternehmen  mit  Geldmitteln 
unterstiitzt  haben,  wenn  der  Verein  darum  nachgesucht  hatte." 

'  Another  attempt  which  was  made  later  found  a  colony  in  America  with 
official  backing  is  referred  to  as  follows  in  the  Atlatitis  for  September,  1858,  p.  235. 

"  In  der  Sitzung  namlich  der  Bundesversammlung  vom  2iten  Februar,  1856, 
stellte  der  Baierische  Gesandte  einen  Antrag  auf  gemeinsame  Organisation  der 
Auswanderung  nach  Gegenden  zu  lenken,  wo  die  Auswanderer  nicht  der  Spe- 


T.  S.  Baker.  83 

Herzog  von  Nassau,  Protector  des  Vereins,  Herzog  von  Mein- 
irgen,  Herzog  von  Coburg-Gotha,  Prinz  von  Preuszen,  der  Land- 
graf  von  Hessen-Homburg,  Der  Fiirst  von  Schwarzburg-:^udol- 
stadt,  Prinz  Moritz  von  Nassau,  der  Fiirst  von  Leiningen,  der 
Fiirst  zu  Neuwied,  der  Fiirst  zu  Solms-Braunfels,  der  Fiirst  zu 
Colloredo-Mansfeld,  der  Fiirst  zu  Schonburg-Waldenburg,  der 
Prinz  Alexander  zu  Solms-Braunfels,  der  Prinz  Carl  zu  Solms- 
Braunfels,  Graf  Neu  Leiningen  Westerburg,  Graf  Friederich  Alt 
Leiningen  Westerburg,  Graf  Victor  Alt  Leiningen  Westerburg, 
Graf  Christian  Neu-Leiningen  Westerburg,  Graf  Hatzfeld,  Graf 
Kuyphausen,  Graf  Ysenburg-Meeholz,  Graf  Colloredo-Mansfeld, 
Graf  Remuesse,  Graf  Lilienberg  und  Graf  Carl  zu  Castell.^ 

It  had  been  perceived  that  for  a  long  time,  in  spite  of  the  out- 
pouring of  emigrants  from  all  parts  of  Germany,  no  advantage 
seemed  to  accrue  to  the  mother  country.  Quite  the  contrary, 
immense  sums  of  money  were  leaving  Germany  every  year.  In 
view  of  this  condition  of  affairs  these  noblemen  saw  that  the 
only  way  to  derive  any  advantage  from  the  emigration  was  to 
give  it  the  seal  of  authority,  and,  if  possible,  to  direct  the  whole 
current  to  one  point.  The  movement  had  dissipated  itself  in 
different  parts  of  the  United  States.  If  only  the  different  par- 
ties could  be  combined  and  made  to  see  that  in  union  there  is 
strength,  they  thought  the  prospect  for  the  foundation  of  a  New 
Germany  in  America  would  be  very  good.  On  paper  the  plan 
looked  admirable,  and  it  seems  hard  to  understand  why  it  did 
not  meet  with  a  larger  degree  of  success  than  did  fall  to  it. 

A  tract  of  land  was  bought  from  Henry  Fischer,  who  had 
lived  for  some  time  in  Texas,  and  who  at  this  time  was  the 
Texan  consul  in  Mainz.  The  "  Verein"  promised  free  transpor- 
tation to  the  place  of  settlement,  a  block-house,  and  160  acres 
of  land  for  each  man,  or  320  acres  for  a  family,  all  in  return  for 
the  sum  of  300  Gulden  for  a  single  adult,  or  600  Gulden  for  a 

kulation  oder  dem  bloszen  Zufall  preisgegeben  wiirden  sondern  Aussicht  auf 
eine  sichere  Existenz  gewonnen,  wo  sie  ferner  ihre  Nationalitat  bewahien  und 
mit  dem  Vaterlande  in  Beziehung  bleiben  konnten." 
1  Cf.  Eickhoff  In  der  Neuen  Heiniat,  p.  323. 


84  Young   Gei^majty  iti  America. 

family.     Churches,  schools  and  hospitals  were  to  be  built  as 
soon  as  possible. 

In  May,  1844,  Prince  Carl  zu  Solms-Braunfels  sailed  from 
Bremen  for  Texas  with  the  title  of  "  General  Commissar." 
In  the  same  year  150  families  followed  him  arriving  at  In- 
dianola  in  December.  The  General  Commissar  found  upon  his 
arrival  that  the  company  had  been  swindled  by  Fischer,  as  the 
land  was  unfit  for  the  purposes  for  which  it  had  been  bought. 
He  therefore  selected  another  site,  and,  upon  the  arrival  of  the 
first  body  of  immigrants  in  March,  1845,  began  the  plans  for  the 
city  of  New  Braunfels.  After  the  difficulties  of  the  long  journey 
from  the  coast  to  the  settlement  were  successfully  endured  things 
went  well  for  a  time.  A  second  body  arrived  a  few  months  later. 
Soon,  however,  difficulties  began  to  arise,  caused  chiefly  by  the 
insufficient  amount  of  money  which  had  been  forwarded  from 
the  headquarters  of  the  society  in  Mainz.  The  Commissioner, 
Solms,  became  discouraged,  and  recognizing  the  difficulties  of 
the  undertaking,  resigned  and  went  back  to  Germany,  He  was 
succeeded  by  Freiherr  von  Meusebach,  who  arrived  in  the  Sum- 
mer of  1845,  ^^^  ^t  once  introduced  a  more  economical  system 
of  management.  While  on  an  expedition  which  he  made  to 
select  the  site  for  another  settlement,^  news  came  that  a  party 
of  more  than  one  thousand  immigrants  had  arrived  in  Galveston. 
He  hastened  to  that  city  and  found  that  the  company  had  sent 
this  large  body  of  colonists,  but  had  forwarded  no  money  for 
their  sustenance.  M-eusebach  went  to  New  Orleans  to  try  to 
raise  a  loan.  In  the  meanwhile  great  suffering  prevailed  among 
those  who  had  just  arrived.  The  number  of  immigrants  in- 
creased every  day  until  there  were  2300  persons.  They  moved 
from  Galveston  to  Indianola,  as  the  means  for  conveyance  to 
New  Braunfels  were  not  forthcoming.  Here  they  were  subjected 
to  the  greatest  privation,  most  of  them  living  in  tents.  Soon 
fever  broke  out  and  the  death  rate  increased  horribly.  All 
efforts  to  get  transportation  failed  because  of  the  war  which  had 


^  This  seUlement  later  became  Fredericksburg. 


T.   S.  Baker.  85 

broken  out  with  Mexico  and  which  made  it  necessary  that  all 
means  of  transport  should  be  pressed  into  military  service. 
Several  hundred  joined  the  United  States  army  and  fought 
against  the  Mexicans  ;  a  larger  number  drifted  away  in  small 
groups  and  settled  in  different  parts  of  the  neighboring  country. 
A  few  penetrated  as  far  as  New  Braunfels,  but  it  is  said  nearly 
one  thousand  succumbed  to  the  disease,  which  had  been  brought 
on  by  exposure  and  by  the  unhealthy  location  of  the  camp. 
After  this  fiasco  very  little  further  was  attempted  by  the  mana- 
gers of  the  "  Verein."  It  began  to  dawn  upon  them  that  they 
had  misunderstood  and  miscalculated  the  difficulties  of  the  en- 
terprise, and  they  were  compelled  to  acknowledge  the  impracti- 
cability of  such  undertakings. 

Thus  ended  the  most  important  of  the  efforts  to  found  German 
states  in  America.  Several  other  attempts  were  made  later,  but 
they  were  for  the  most  part  on  a  small  scale  and  provoked  very 
little  comment.  It  will  be  seen  that  all  the  undertakings  which 
have  been  discussed  ended  in  dismal  failure.  The  far-reaching 
political  consequences  which  had  been  anticipated  amounted  to 
nothing.  An  explanation  of  this,  as  was  indicated  at  the  begin- 
ning of  this  chapter,  may  be  found  in  the  fact  that  the  promo- 
ters of  these  undertakings  v/ere  carried  away  by  their  imagina- 
tions ;  there  was  too  much  of  the  romantic  about  them.  ]\Iost 
elaborate  schemes  were  organized  in  Germany  with  almost  no 
knowledge  of  the  real  condition  of  affairs  in  this  country. 

It  is,  however,  hardly  to  be  supposed  that  the  great  number  of 
immigrants  that  were  coming  to  America  at  this  time  left  no 
traces  upon  American  life  and  politics.  The  radical  doctrines 
advanced  by  the  "  Zweiunddreisziger  "  and  the  "  Achtundvier- 
ziger  "  were  heard  outside  German  circles.  They  came  to  the 
ears  of  Americans  as  well ;   and  they  did  not  go  unnoticed.^ 


1  Cf.  "The  Naturalization  Laws  and  Policy  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church," 
speech  of  Hon.  W.  R.  Smith,  of  Alabama,  in  the  House  of  Representatives, 
January  15,  1S55  {Co7igressio7ial  Globe  Appendix,  p.  94.)-- -"The  foreigner 
believes  that  America  is  the  natural  rendezvous  for  all  the  exiled  patriots  and 
disaffected  and  turbulent  persons  of  the  earth,  and  that  here  they  are  to  meet 
to  form  plans  and  concoct  schemes  to  revolutionize  all  creation  '  and  the  rest  of 
mankind.'  " 


86  Young   Germany  in  America. 

What  was  then  the  position  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  United 
States  towards  the  German  immigrants  and  more  particularly 
to  the  theories  advanced  by  them  ?  ^  Unquestionably  the  growth 
of  "  Know-nothingism  "  and  "  Nativism  "  was  forwarded  by  the 
antagonistic  position  taken  by  the  Germans  towards  American 
institutions.  The  Americans  felt  that  if  their  wild  speeches 
and  theories  were  allowed  to  pass  unnoticed  they  would  in  time 
become  a  serious  menace.  Accordingly  a  very  great  dislike  and 
in  some  quarters  an  intense  hatred  was  developed  towards  the 
German  which  showed  itself  upon  all  public  occasions,  but 
especially  at  elections. 

One  of  the  most  important  cities  in  this  connection  is  Louis- 
ville. Here  a  great  many  of  the  hot-headed  revolutionists  had 
come  together.  The  most  violent  plans  were  proposed  by  them, 
much  to  the  terror  of  the  older  inhabitants  who  had  experienced 
the  dangers  of  earlier  native  American  movements.  The  air 
became  charged  with  the  utterances  of  the  foreign  enthusiasts. 
The  Louisville  Journal  took  up  the  question  and  brought  the 
doings  of  the  Germans  before  its  readers.  The  result  was  that 
the  election  of  1855  became  the  signal  for  a  violent  demonstra- 
tion. On  the  4th  of  August,  in  Louisville,  every  German  who 
approached  the  polls  and  did  not  know  the  password  of  the 
"  Know-nothings,"  was  driven  away  with  stones  and  clubs. 
Armed  bands  paraded  through  the  city  beating,  plundering  and 

^  Cf.  Niles  Register,  p.  196  ;  "A  late  paper  says  :  '  Numbers  are  preparing  to 
quit  their  country  for  the  American  States.  In  Rhenish  Bavaria  associations 
are  forming  for  the  purpose,  and  a  deputation  is  said  to  be  in  readiness  to  start 
for  the  United  States,  in  order  to  have  communication  with  the  government  of 
that  country  and  to  purchase  tracts  which  are  to  be  peopled  from  hence  and  to 
be  called  "New  Germany."  Formerly  the  exiles  were  persons  who  went  to 
seek  fortune's  favors.  Now  from  some  districts  near  the  Rhine  fifteen  persons 
who  each  possess  from  ^^"3,000  to  ^4,000  are  making  all  ready.  It  is  even  said 
that  wealth  will  leave  that  district  in  the  hands  of  a  few  families  to  the  amount 
of  ^ioo,oco,  a  considerable  sum  for  Germany,  which  is  to  be  deserted  because 
the  people  are  treated  with  mjustice.  We  shall  give  these,  and  all  such  as  these, 
from  any  and  every  country  a  welcome,  but  the  idea  of  settling  in  a  large  and 
compact  body  cannot  be  approved.  In  coming  hither  they  should  expect  that 
their  children  at  least  will  become  Americans  in  habits,  manners  and  feelings. 
and  be  fully  incorporated  into  the  body  of  the  citizens.'  " 


T.   S.  Baker.  87 

sometimes  killing  the  defenceless  Germans.  The  greatest 
excitement  prevailed  and  the  most  disgraceful  scenes  were 
enacted.^  This  condition  of  affairs  was  not  confined  to  Louis- 
ville, but  probably  in  that  city  there  was  more  violence  displayed 
than  anywhere  else.  As  a  result  of  this  violent  opposition  of 
the  Am.ericans  towards  the  Germans,  it  was  felt  in  certain  quar- 
ters that  something  should  be  done  to  conciliate  the  American 
national  pride  and  at  the  same  time  give  expression  to  the 
extreme  radical  tendencies  of  the  "Achtundvierziger."  This  is 
the  point  of  view  from  which  the  movement  which  culminated 
in  the  Wheeling  Congress  and  the  book  The  New  Rome  must 
be  considered.  The  movement  is  above  all  things  to  be  regarded 
in  the  light  of  a  compromise  on  the  part  of  the  Germans  toward 
the  existing  "  Know-nothingism."  The  promoters  of  the  new 
venture  were  also  desirous  of  helping  the  revolutionary  cause  in 
Germany,  and  when  they  found  that  it  was  impossible  to  use  direct 
methods,  indirect  means  were  resorted  to. 

In  the  early  part  of  the  year  1852  certain  "  Revolutions- 
Vereine  "  were  founded  in  the  most  important  cities  of  the  East 
and  also  in  a  few  of  the  western  cities.  The  headquarters  of 
the  new  league  was  at  first  in  Philadelphia,  afterwards  in  Boston. 
It  later  became  known  as  the  "  Volksbund  fiir  die  alte  und  neue 
Welt."  ^     Its  object  was  to  form  an  "  Universalrepublik  "  with 


'  Cf.  L.  Stierlin.     Der  Staat  Kentucky  und  die  Stadt  Louisville.     Louisville, 

1873. 

^  This  society  was  first  known  as  the  "American  Revolutionary  League  for 
Europe."  At  a  congress  held  in  Philadelphia  the  following  address  and  regula- 
tions were  adopted  on  January  29,  1852  :  "  Fellow  Citizens,  the  Congress  of  the 
'American  Revolutionary  League  for  Europe,'  herewith  submit  the  result  of 
their  deliberations  to  the  judgment  of  the  people,  all  parties  of  which  were 
represented  in  that  body. 

"  Earnestly  resolved  to  find  the  means  of  terminating  the  desperate  condition 
of  the  liberty-thirsty  people  of  Europe,  firmly  convinced  that  the  first  great 
step  to  the  attainment  of  this  goal  is  the  cordial  co-operation  of  all  who  seek  it, 
it  was  for  us  to  explore  the  middle  ground  upon  which  all  parties  could  honor- 
ably and  cheerfully  unite  their  forces. 

"The  conscious  determination  to  achieve  a  revolution  thorough  and  complete 
was  the  warrant  for  our  actions,  and  of  you,  sovereign  people,  we  ask  the  ratifi- 
cation of  this  warrant  in  the  readiness  with  which  you  shall  erect  upon  the  founda- 


88  Young  Germany  in  America. 

the  United  States  as  the  centre.  In  other  words,  to  annex  all 
the  countries  of  the  world  to  the  United  States.  The  motto  of 
the  United  States  E pluribus  Uniim  was  taken  in  the  broadest 
possible  sense.  Out  of  all  the  political  divisions  a  universal 
empire  would  be  formed,  just  as  this  country  was  an  aggrega- 
tion of  states.  The  originator  of  this  movement  was  Carl  Goepp, 
a  young  German,  who  had  been  compelled  to  leave  Europe 
because  of  the  part  which  he  took  in  the  disturbances  of  1848. 
The  radical  doctrines  proposed  by  Goepp  were  first  published  in 
a  pamphlet  entitled  E pluribus  Ummi  in  1852.  The  point  of 
view  in  this  tract  is  strictly  American  ;  it  is  rather  an  address  to 
the  American  people  than  a  statement  of  the  theories  of  any 
German  organization.  The  appearance  in  print  of  this  docu- 
ment was  hailed  by  certain  of  the  "  Achtundvierziger "  as  a 
happy  solution  of  the  question  how  America  would  be  able  to 
bring  about  freedom  in  Germany.     The  unusual  character  of 


tion  we  have  laid  the  superstructure  of  an  extensive,  yea,  a  universal  fusion  of 
all  revolutionary  elements.  Let  us  then  be  up  and  doing  !  Our  cause  is  noble, 
is  sacred.  The  barriers  that  cramp  the  growth  of  "active,  intelligent  and  high- 
souled  Nations  are  to  be  stricken  down,  mankind  is  to  be  restored  to  its 
humanity.  Let  the  motto  for  the  strife  be  union  in  the  American  Revolutionary 
League. 

"  The  object  of  the  league  shall  be  the  radical  liberalization  of  tlie  European 
continent ;  for  which  are  required  :  i.  The  overthrow  of  monarchy  and  the 
establishment  of  the  Republic,  because  in  the  Republic  alone  can  all  the  horrors 
of  tyranny  be  prevented.  2.  Direct  and  universal  suffrage  and  the  recall  of 
representatives  by  the  majority  of  their  constituents,  because  this  alone  secures 
the  supremacy  of  the  popular  will  in  the  workings  of  popular  institutions.  3. 
The  abolition  of  standing  armies  and  inviolability  of  the  right  of  the  people  to 
bear  arms,  because  the  last  resource  of  forcible  resistance  is  the  only  protection 
against  the  last  device  of  forcible  usurpation.  4.  The  union  for  these  ends  of 
all  persons,  associations,  parties  and  nations  for  the  annihilation  of  oppression, 
because  without  such  concerted  efforts  the  organized  power  of  tyrants  is  invin- . 
cible."  Act  III  Meatis  Sec.  i. — Agitation  as  well  in  Europe  as  in  America. 
Sec.  2. — Accumulation  of  a  revolutionary  fund.  Sec-  3. — Formation  of  armed 
organizations  desirous  of  entering  personally  into  the  struggle  and  of  preparing 
it  by  mihtary  exercises. 

Cf  "The  Naturalization  Laws  and  Policy  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church," 
speech  of  Hon.  W.  R.  Smith,  of  Alabama,  in  the  House  of  Representatives, 
January  15,  1S55,  Congressional  Globe  Appendix,  2nd  Session  of  33rd  Con- 
gress, p.  94. 


T.  S.  Baker.  89 

Goepp's  views,  at  first,  as  was  to  be  expected,  caused  great 
astonishment,  but  the  novelty  of  his  position  and  at  the  same 
time  its  radical  nature  cause  it  later  to  find  much  favor.  Its 
success  was  greater  in  the  West  than  in  the  more  conservative 
eastern  cities.  Meetings  to  discuss  it  were  held  in  Wheeling, 
Cincinnati,  Louisville,  Cleveland  and  Buffalo,  as  well  as  in  most 
of  the  large  cities  on  the  Atlantic  coast.  It  was  decided  to 
translate  the  document  "in  alle  moglichen  Sprachen."  The 
culmination  was  reached  when  they  resolved  to  hold  a  congress 
to  discuss  the  best  means  of  bringing  the  new  doctrine  before 
the  public.  A  summons  for  a  meeting  in  Wheeling,  Virginia, 
on  the  i8th  of  September,  1852,  was  issued  in  the  name  of  the 
"  Volksbund  fiir  die  alte  und  neue  Welt,"  which  had  adopted 
Goepp's  views  m  toto.  Sixteen  delegates  responded  to  the  call, 
representing  a  large  number  of  societies  in  Philadelphia,  Boston, 
Roxbury,  Albany,  Troy,  Pittsburg,  Newark,  etc.  A  great  many 
more  representatives  had  been  expected,  but  notwithstanding 
the  small  attendance  meetings  were  held.  The  most  important 
business  transacted  was  the  preparation  of  an  address  "  An  das 
Amerikanische  Volk."  ^  The  efforts  of  the  "  Volksbund  "  seem 
to  have  spent  themselves  in  this  Wheeling  congress,  for  after- 
wards very  little  more  is  heard  of  it. 

These  peculiar  theories  found  further  elaboration  in  a  book 
published  jointly  by  Theodor  Poesche  and  Charles  Goepp  :   The 


^  Cf.  Der  Deutsche  Pionier,  vol.  viii,  p.  90,  ff.  The  address  begins  very 
formally  as  follows:  "Der  Congress  des  Volksbundes  fiir  die  alte  und  neue 
Welt  an  das  Amerikanische  Volk.  Vernehmt  von  Neuem  unsere  Stimme,  Ihr 
habt  den  Anforderungen  des  blutenden  Europa  gelauscht,  in  Tonen  ergossen 
wie  die  Welt  nie  wieder  horen  wird.  Wir  wollen  diese  Anstrengungen  nicht 
wiederholen  ;  was  sie  nicht  auf  jenem  Felde  zu  Stande  bringen  konnten,  geht 
iiber  den  Bereich  menschlicher  Kraft  hinaus,"  etc.  The  document  was  signed 
by  the  following  delegates  :  Dr.  Conradin  Homburg,  President ;  E.  Schlager, 
■Sekret'dr  aus  Boston  ;  Lemhart  Roos,  aus  Newark  ;  J.  Miiller,  aus  Cleveland  ; 
R.  Fischer,  aus  Wheeling;  C.  Goepp,  aus  Philadelphia;  C.  Strobel,  aus  Wheeling; 
W.  Rosenthal,  aus  Philadelphia  ;  L.  Meyer,  aus  Boston  ;  Lorenz  Kirchner,  aus 
Troy ;  J.  N.  Winkle,  aus  Wheeling  ;  G.  Baczho,  aus  Albany  ;  W.  Rothacher, 
fiir  London  ;  J.  Roth,  aus  Pittsburg  ;  A.  Gewig,  aus  Cincinnati  und  C.  Hoftman, 
aus  Pittsburg. 


90  Young   Germany  in  America. 

New  Rome ;  or^  The  United  States  of  the  World}  It  was  dedi- 
cated to  "  Franklin  Pierce,  President  of  the  United  States,  being 
a  guess  at  the  spirit  in  which  he  was  elected."  This  book  was 
written  from  the  same  point  of  view  as  E plnribus  Unum.  The 
authors  always  speak  of  themselves  as  Americans,  and  their  work 
is  even  more  American  in  its  tone  than  the  E plnribus  Unum 
tract.  The  geographical,  ethnographical,  statistical,  commercial, 
monetary  and  industrial  observations  and  reflections  are  the 
work  of  Poesche.  The  historical,  legal  and  metaphysical  argu- 
ments, the  details  on  American  legal  and  political  institutions 
are  to  a  great  extent  the  production  of  his  colleague.  Poesche 
wrote  the  first  draft  in  German.  Goepp  following  his  arrange- 
ment reproduced  it  in  English,  interpolating  his  own  ideas  and 
such  new  thoughts  as  occured  to  either  or  both,  in  their  conver- 
sation and  studies,  as  the  work  went  on.  The  key  to  the  whole 
book  is  found  in  the  following  extract  in  which  the  significance 
of  the  title  becomes  at  once  apparent  (page  lo) : 

"  This  New  Rofne.,  the  American  Union,  is  a  reflection  of  the 
old,  even  in  its  geographical  position.  The  Roman  Empire, 
embracing  the  "  orbis  terrarum  "  of  the  geography  of  that  time, 
was  a  political  organization  of  the  circle  of  lands  that  skirted 
the  Mediterranian  Sea,  in  the  midst  of  which,  like  a  great  line 
of  battle  ships,  was  moored  the  Italian  peninsula.  So  the  Ameri- 
ican  peninsula,  its  northern  extremity  connected  with  the  main- 
land of  the  other  continent  by  means  of  icebergs  which  have 
baffled  our  explorers  as  obstinately  as  the  Rhaetian  Alps  whilom 
hemmed  in  the  Roman  pioneers,  divides  the  ocean  into  its  two 
great  basins.  In  the  middle  of  these  peninsulas  was  founded, 
respectively,  the  Etrurian  and  the  British  colonies.  Each  looks 
to  the  East  for  the  sources  of  its  civilization.  Each  casts  its  eye 
first  upon  its  native  peninsula,  and  strives  to  reduce  it  to  its 
undisputed  sway.  Thus  the  acquisition  of  all  Italy  was  an 
important  epoch  in  Roman  politics  ;  it  supplied  the  base  for 
further  operations.  Thus  '  the  continent  is  ours  '  is  becoming 
more  and  more  distinctly  a  leading  American  aspiration." 

1  Published  by  G.  P.  Putnam  &  Co.,  New  York,  1S53. 


T.  S.  Baker.  91 

And  again,  on  p.  47,  the  following  significant  passage  is  found  : 
"  America  is  the  crucible  in  which  European,  Asiatic  and 
African  nationalities  and  peculiarities  are  smelted  into  unity. 
We  have  assigned  to  the  Romanic  nations  the  station  of  vener- 
able old  age,  giving  counsel  from  its  treasured  experiences  ;  to 
the  Germanic  the  lusty  action  of  maturity,  just  emancipated 
from  tutelage  ;  and  to  the  Sclavonic,  the  eager  attention  of  early 
youth,  looking  in  anxiously  while  the  men  are  working,  and 
sometimes  proud  to  offer  assistance."  The  authors  write  very 
confidently.  On  page  8  they  say  "  The  following  essay  .... 
proposes  to  tell  neither  what  might  nor  what  should,  but  simply 
what  must  be."  The  whole  work  is  divided  into  three  parts, 
entitled,  respectively,  "Politics,"  "Social,"  "Organization,"  and 
the  final  part,  which  consists  of  only  two  pages,  discusses  "  Lan- 
guage." The  first  subdivision  of  Part  I  (Politics)  is  "  Present 
Projects,"  the  second  chapter  "  Internal  Growth,"  the  third 
"  Constitution."  In  Chapter  II  the  discussion  of  the  statistics 
of  immigration  is  taken  up.  Chapter  III  treats  at  length  the 
United  States  Constitution,  showing  how  well  it  lends  itself  to 
the  scheme  proposed.  The  fourth  chapter  in  Part  I  is  headed 
"  Mission  ;"  chapter  5,  "  The  Anglo-Saxons." 

According  to  their  manner  of  argument  the  confederation  of 
all  the  States  of  North  and  South  America  is  a  question  of  only 
a  few  years.  The  time  seemed  ripe,  California  and  New  Mexico 
had  just  been  annexed  and  the  annexation  of  Cuba  was  being 
discussed. 

"  No  pent-up  Utica  can  hold  our  powers 
The  whole,  the  boundless  continent  is  ours," 

was  a  favorite  sentiment.  With  the  whole  of  the  American 
continent  at  its  back,  the  United  States  would  be  in  a  position 
to  contest  for  the  possession  of  some  of  the  English  colonies. 
In  this  connection  Australia  is  discussed  at  considerable  leng-th. 
The  discovery  of  gold  there  had  attracted  immense  crowds  of 
immigrants.  They  say  1000  persons  a  day  (in  1852)  are  leaving 
England    for  the  Australian  gold    fields.      Great    numbers    of 


92  Young  Gernia?iy  in  America. 

Americans  were  also  sailing  for  Australia.  The  result  of  all 
this  immigration  would  evidently  result  in  some  collision  with 
the  home  government.  The  curious  mixture  of  people  which 
would  be  foimd  there,  would  not  be  willing  to  submit  to  a 
government  thousands  of  miles  away.  There  would  be  a  revolt. 
The  Americans  would  of  course  come  to  the  front  and  assume 
control  of  affairs,  and  then  having  gotten  the  reins  of  govern- 
ment, annexation  to  the  United  States  would  be  assured. 

They  conclude  then  the  discussion  of  this  point  by  saying : 
"  With  all  the  continent  and  Australia  in  the  American  scale, 
the  addition  of  the  rest  of  the  world  will  be  a  question  of  time 
regulated  by  American  convenience."  The  infederation  of  Eng- 
land is  treated  as  a  very  easy  matter.  On  page  87  the  following 
remarkable  statement  is  made  : 

"  The  stupendous  greatness  of  England  is  fictitious,  and  will 
only  become  natural  when  that  empire  shall  have  found  its  real 
centre  ;  that  centre  is  in  the  United  States.  The  Anglican 
Empire  is  essentially  oceanic,  its  dominions  extend  along  the 
coasts  of  the  Atlantic  and  the  Pacific,  the  lesser  and  the  greater 
ocean.  America,  lying  in  the  midst  of  the  ocean,  is  therefore 
its  natural  point  of  gravitation.  The  realization  of  an  idea 
higher  than  could  be  developed  in  the  mother  island,  that  of  the 
republican  democracy,  required  a  temporary  segregation  of  the 
centre,  but  the  former  adjunct  being  now  no  longer  merely  the 
geographical  centre,  but  the  political  and  social  focus,  must  take 
the  lead.  E7igland  zvith  her  colonies  must  be  annexed  to  the 
American  Unions 

Chapter  VI  treats  "  The  Teutonic  Race  ;"  chapter  VII  "  The 
Jews;"  chapter  VIII  "The  Sclavonic  Race." 

According  to  the  authors,  Russia  is  the  only  nation  of  the 
earth  that  will  offer  any  real  resistance  to  the  march  of  the 
United  States.  Russia  dreamed  also  of  an  universal  empire. 
When,  therefore,  the  United  States  and  Russia  come  together, 
"  Then  will  the  mastery  of  Europe  be  the  prize  of  the  death 
struggle  between  the  Union  and  the  Czar."  Page  109,  "Thus 
the  lines  are  drawn.     The  choirs  are  marshalled  on  each  wine 


T.  S.  Baker.  93 

of  the  world's  stage  ;  Russia  leading  the  one,  the  United  States 
the  other.  Yet  the  world  is  too  small  for  both,  and  the  contest 
must  end  in  the  downfall  of  one  and  the  victory  of  the  other." 
Chapter  IX  is  entitled  "  The  Romanic  Races,"  and  chapter  X 
"The  Moguls."  Thus  ends  the  first  part  of  the  New  Rome. 
Parts  II  and  III  are  quite  unimportant  for  the  present  discussion. 

This  book  of  Poesche  and  Goepp  represents  the  acme  of  radi- 
calism. Although  at  the  time  of  its  publication  it  found  con- 
siderable favor,  yet  in  a  few  years  it  became  the  laughing  stock 
of  all  German-Americans,  As  far  as  reaching  the  great  masses 
of  the  citizens  of  the  United  States  is  concerned,  it  seems  to  have 
failed  completely  in  the  expectation  of  its  authors.  The  civil 
war  and  the  events  leading  up  to  the  war  took  precedence 
over  all  discussions  of  this  kind,  so  that  it  was  soon  relegated, 
one  might  say,  to  oblivion.  In  spite  of  its  fantastic  character, 
it  should  not  be  considered  as  something  altogether  new  and 
unhistorical.  In  certain  respects  it  was  the  logical  outcome  of 
the  long-continued  method  of  considering  America  as  a  field  for 
the  trial  of  whatever  was  politically  impossible  in  Europe.  The 
fact  that  the  rapid  growth  of  Russia,  caused  apprehension  in 
some  parts  that  the  whole  of  Europe  might  some  day  come  under 
the  sway  of  Russia,  is  also  important  in  this  connection.  The 
day  when  Napoleon  seemed  near  carrying  out  his  dreams  of  a 
universal  empire  had  not  been  forgotten.  The  saying  "  Pansla- 
vismus  und  Napoleonismus  "  had  become  an  every-day  phrase. 
In  The  New  Rome  these  ideas  are  transferred  to  America, 
where,  just  at  this  time,  there  was  more  or  less  enthusiasm  for 
extending  the  bounds  of  the  Union. 

As  applied  to  America  this  was  certainly  unique,  but  we  notice 
in  the  whole  tendency  of  the  "  Young  German  "  movement  a 
drift  towards — what  may  be  called  for  lack  of  a  better  word — 
"universality."  A  national  literature  should  be  discouraged  and  a 
literature  of  the  world  ought  to  take  its  place.  In  some  quar- 
ters patriotism  itself  was  frowned  upon — patriotism  was  an 
animal  impulse  of  the  blood  ;  we  ought  to  devote  ourselves  not  to 
one  nation  but  to  the  whole  human  race.     I  see,  therefore,  in  the 


94  Yoiing   Ger7iiaiiy  in  Avierica. 

world  republic  scheme  of  the  Wheeling  congress  something  that 
is  not  so  thoroughly  bizarre  and  unhistorical. 

Up  to  the  present  only  the  most  radical  plans  of  the  Germans 
have  been  treated.  This,  however,  does  not  mean  that  all  Ger- 
mans who  came  to  this  country  during  the  period  of  1830  to 
1855  were  in  accord  with  these  theories.  It  is  safe  to  say  that 
nearly  all  the  immigrants  believed  firmly  that  the  Germans  had 
a  mission  to  fulfill  in  the  United  States.  Not  a  "  mission  "  in 
the  sense  that  they  expected  to  benefit  the  natives,  but  rather  in 
that  they  supposed  the  "  German  element "  would  play  an  im- 
portant role  in  the  future  of  the  republic — a  much  more  import- 
ant part  than  what  has  occurred  since,  has  shown  to  be  the  case. 
The  majority  of  them  believed  that  this  importance  would  show 
itself  in  a  political  way.  To  such  as  these  the  expectation  of 
Germanizing  the  United  States  was  a  reality.  Others  believed 
that  the  Germans  had  no  future  here  as  a  separate  political 
power.  That  they  would  achieve  most  by  losing  themselves  in 
the  life  of  the  great  republic  at  the  same  time  contributing  what- 
ever of  culture  they  might  possess  to  help  make  a  new  American 
civilization.  In  other  words,  that  the  Germans  would  accom- 
plish most  in  an  educational  way.^  Most  of  the  German-Ameri- 
cans, whether  they  believed  it  best  for  the  Germans  to  become 
denationalized  or  not,  thought  that  they  could  accomplish  most 
by  allowing  themselves  to  be  formally  naturalized  and  to  ally 
themselves  to  one  of  the  existing  American  political  parties. 
Some  of  the  more  radical  proposed  the  formation  of  a  new  party, 
the  cardinal  principles  of  which  would  be  the  abolition  of  slavery 
and  puritanism.  These  were  the  most  repulsive  features  of 
American  life  to  the  German  immigrants.  Most  of  the  political 
exiles  were  thoroughly  imbued  with  the  doctrines  of  "  Young 


^  The  Anzeiger  des  Westeiis  favored  strongly  the  idea  of  the  Germans  giving 
up  their  nationahty  when  they  came  to  America  and  becoming  at  once  Ameri- 
canized. Fr.  Kapp  believed  also  that  the  German  element  had  no  prospect  of 
long  holding  together. 

Cf  also  Julius  Froebel,  Die  Deutsche  Auswanderung  und  ihre  culturhis- 
toriche  Bedeutimg ;  Funfzehn  Brief e  an  den  Herausgeber  der  Allgcmeinen 
Auswanderimgs  Zeitung.    Leipzig,  185S. 


T.  S.  Baker.  95 

Germany,"  and  one  of  the  most  important  features  of  this  school 
was  its  unfriendliness  towards  Christianity.  When,  therefore, 
men  who  held  such  theories  as  these  came  to  America  one  of 
the  first  things  that  struck  them,  and  which,  at  the  same  time, 
disgusted  them,  was  what  they  called  "  puritanismus."  '  Against 
this  and  against  slavery  was  directed  a  great  deal  of  the  literary 
activity  which  showed  itself  in  the  numerous  German  news- 
papers which  sprang  up  everywhere.  In  Der  Amerikamude 
frequent  references  are  found  to  the  hypocrisy  of  the  Americans. 

The  seat  of  this  movement  to  form  a  new  political  party  was 
in  the  West,  especially  in  Kentucky  and  Louisville.  Emil  Klau- 
precht  in  his  book  {Deutsche  Chronik  in  der  Geschichte  des 
Ohio-Thales.  Cinn.  1864.)  gives  an  account  of  this  attempt 
as  follows  :  page  187  ;  "  Das  Jahr  1854  sah  ein  reges  politisches 
Leben  unter  den  Ankommlingen  von  1848.  In  Louisville 
vereinigten  sich  die  deutschen  Fortschrittsfreunde  auf  eine  Plat- 
form, entworfen  von  Heinzen,  Domschcke,  Burgeler,  und  Wittig, 
welche  der  Sklaverei  und  dem  Kirchenwesen  den  Krieg  erklarte. 
In  der  Freimaurer-halle  von  Cincinnati  wurde^tEnde  Marz  die  lyt) 
Abo-eordneten  von  1 7  Vereinen  Chios  unter  Vorsitz  des  Herrn 
MuUer  aus  Cleveland  zu  diesem  Zweck  versammelt.  Sie  ent- 
warfen  eine  Platform  ahnlich  der  von  Louisville." 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  new  party  sprang  into  life  at  a  com- 
paratively late  date,  although  it  had  been  felt  for  a  long  time 
that  such  a  party  was  desirable,  provided  it  could  gain  sufficient 
following  to  make  it  a  factor  in  the  elections.  The  sequel 
showed  that  this  hesitation  was  well  founded,  inasmuch  as  the 
new  party  never  met  with  any  success.  Its  importance  con- 
sists merely  in  the  fact  that  it  shows  the  intense  opposition  that 
was  felt  towards  the  American  religious  sects  and  towards 
slavery.  The  position  occupied  by  the  German  to  the  various 
political  parties  requires  a  more  special  treatment  than  is  possi- 
ble in  the  present  investigation.-     The  "German  element"  did 

'  That  the  Germans  were  opposed  to  Christianity  soon  became  known  among 
the  Americans.  In  Louisville  about  the  year  1854  one  of  the  Presbyterian 
Churches  made  a  special  eflFort  to  "  convert  these  heathens." 

2  Koerners  book,  Das  Deutsche  Element,  has  to  do  very  largely  with  the 
history  of  the  part  the  Germans  have  taken  in  the  American  political  parties. 


96  Young  Germany  in  America. 

not,  in  a  body,  join  any  one  particular  party.  Germans  voted 
one  way  or  the  other,  according  to  whatever  seemed  best  for 
their  own  personal  interest.  Local  conditions,  to  a  certain 
extent,  governed  their  action. 

In  concluding  this  study  the  question  naturally  suggests 
itself.  Have  there  been  any  survivals  of  the  radical  tendencies 
of  the  immigrants  of  1832  and  1848?  In  answer  to  this  ques- 
tion it  is  only  necessary  to  refer  to  the  efforts  of  a  society  known 
as  Der  dcutsche  Kricgerbund  which  is  in  existence  to-day,  and 
to  an  article  explaining  the  objects  of  this  organization  contained 
in  the  Preiissische  Jahrbi'icher  for  January,  1895,  entitled  "  Die 
Deutschen  in  Amerika,"  von  Wilhelm  Weber,  Pastor  in  Belle- 
ville, 111. 

In  this  article  the  author  claims  that  one-third  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  United  States  are  of  German  extraction.  Therefore, 
the  German  influence  should  be  "  massgebend,"  and  the  United 
States  a  German  empire.  But  the  German  is  required  by  the 
natives  to  play  a  very  subordinate  part.  This  is  not  as  it  should 
be.  Are  there ^ny  remedies  for  this  condition  of  affairs?  Pas- 
tor Weber  thinks  there  are,  and  finds  the  important  agent  in 
bringing  about  the  reforms,  the  foundation  of  what  he  calls 
"  Musterschulen."  These  schools  will  be  supported  by  the 
"  Deutsche  Kriegerbund,"  which  is  an  organization  of  Germans 
living  in  America  who  at  some  time  have  been  in  the  German 
army.  Branches  exist  in  many  of  the  cities  of  the  Union.  He 
proceeds  as  follows  : — "  Ich  nenne  nur  diesen  Bund  den  einzigen 
und  wahren  Reprasentanten  des  deutschen  Reiches  in  Amerika. 
Das  deutsche  Heer  hat  durch  seine  Siege  das  Reich  geschafFen," 
etc. 

The  chief  point  of  the  argument  consists  in  the  statement 
that  in  order  to  preserve  the  German  national  feeling  among  the 
German-Americans,  it  is  necessary  to  continue  the  use  of  German 
as  an  educational  and  conversational  medium.  Schools  accord- 
ingly will  be  founded  which  will  offer  instruction  to  children 
of  German  parents  for  a  period  of  about  four  years,  the  child 
beginning  the  course  at  the  age  of  ten.     German  teachers  will  be 


T.  S.  Baker.  97 

secured  from  Germany,  men,  who,  although  it  will  be  necessary 
to  accept  a  small  salary  here,  when  they  become  too  old  to  teach, 
a  pension  will  be  assured  them  by  the  German  home  government. 
The  superintendents  of  instruction  will  be  expected  to  make 
their  reports  to  Germany.  Thus  Pastor  Weber  wishes  to  place 
the  whole  system  under  the  patronage  of  the  German  empire, 
making  the  system  of  Musterschiden  an  instrument  for  extending 
the  power  of  the  empire.  The  whole  plan  is  elaborated  with 
great  care.  A  way  is  found  for  providing  for  the  necessary 
expenses,  and  all  the  difficulties  of  the  undertaking  are  met  in  a 
manner  which  seems  to  perfectly  satisfy  the  author  of  the  article. 
The  proposed  system  is  as  radical  and  as  impossible  as  any  of 
the  plans  suggested  by  the  most  "  doctrinaire  "  of  the  "  Achtund- 
vierziger."  This  one  article  then  is  sufficient  to  show  that  hopes 
of  the  Germanization  of  America  are  not  yet  dead  in  some 
quarters. 


BIBI.IOGRAPHY. 


Alte  und  Neue  Welt.     Philadelphia,  Jahrgange  1834-44. 

Andree,  C.  —  Amerika  in  geographischen  und  geschichtlichen  Umris- 
sen.      Band  i,  Nord  Amerika.     Braunschweig,  1851. 

Anzeiger  des  Westens.     St.  Louis,  Jahrgange  1 835-1 850. 

Baumbach,  L.  von. — Neue  Briefe  aus  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  von 
Nord  Amerika  in  die  Heimat.     1856. 

Bernhard,  HerzogzuSachsen- Weimar-Eisenach. — Reise Seiner  Hoheit 
des  Herzogs  Bernhard  zu  Sachsen-Weimar-Eisenach,  durch 
Nord  Amerika  in  den  Jahren  1825  und  1826.  Herausgegeben 
von  Heinrich  Luden,  2  Theile.  Weimar,  Wilhelm  Hotlman 
1828.      English  Translation.     Philadelphia,  1828. 

Bokum. — The  Tennessee  Handbook  and  Immigrants'  Guide. 

Brauns. — Praktische  Belehrungen  und  Rathschlage  fiir  Reisende  und 
Auswanderer  nach  Amerika.     Braunschweig,  1829. 

Bremer,  F. — Homes  of  the  New  World.  Translated  by  M.  Howitt. 
3  volumes.     London,  1853. 


98  Young  Gcr?nany  in  America. 

Briefe  aus  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nord  Amerika.  (Anony- 
mous).    Leipzig-,  1853. 

Bromme,  T. — Hand-und  Reisebuch  fiir  Auswanderer  und  Reisende  nach 
Nord-  Mittel-  und  Siid-Amerika.     yte  Auflage.    Bamberg,  1853. 

Bromme,  T. — Reise  durch  die  Floridas.      1837. 
Minnesota  als  eine  Heimath  fiir  Auswanderer. 
Michigan,  Baltimore,   1834. 
Illinois,   1835. 
Mississippi,  1837. 

Bruckner,  G. — Amerika' s  wichtigste  Charakteristik  nach  Land  und 
Leuten.     St.  Louis  (no  date). 

Busch,  M. — Wanderungen  zwischen  Hudson  und  Mississippi,  1851 
und  1852.     Stuttgart,  1S54. 

Buhle. — Reisen  durch  die  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nord  Amerika. 
Zwei  Bande.     NUrnberg,  1808. 

Buchile,  C. — Land  und  Volk  der  Vereinigten  Staaten.    Stuttgart,  1855. 

Biittner,    Dr.  J.    G. — Briefe  aus  und  iiber  die  Vereinigten   Staaten, 
Zwei  Bande.     Dresden,  1847. 
Die  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nord  Amerika.     Zwei  Bande.    Ham- 
burg, 1844. 
Der  Staat  Ohio.     Baireuth,  1849. 

Cabet,  E. — Colonic  oder  Republik  Icarien.  Nauvoo,  111.,  1853. 
Fortschritt  der  Colonic  Icarien.     Nauvoo,  111.,  1854. 

Conzett,  Conrad. — Nach  Amerika.     Handbuch  fiir  Auswanderer. 

Cincinnati  Volksblatt.     Jahrgange  1836-1850. 

Der  Deutsche  Pioneer.     Cincinnati,  Jahrgange  i-ii  (1869-79). 

Der  Deutsche  Kirchenfreund.  Redigirt  von  Dr.  Klaff.  Mercersburg, 
Penn.,  1848-1850. 

De  Wette,  L. — Reise  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  und  Canada  im  Jahre 
1837.     Leipzig,  1838. 

Duden,  Gottfried. — Die  Nordamerikanische  Democratic  und  das  von 
Tocquevillesche  Werk  dariiber  als  Zeichen  des  Zustandes  der 
theoretischen  Politik.  Nebst  einer  Aeusserung  iiber  Chevaliers 
Nordamerikanische  Briefe  insbesondere  hinsichtlich  der  wahren 
Ursachen  des  Bank-streites  und  der  neuesten  Unfalle  in  dem 
Handelsleben,  Dudens  Selbst-Anklage  wegen.  seines  Ameri- 
kanischen  Reiseberichts  zur  Warnung  vor  fernerm  leichtsinnigen 
Auswandern.     Bonn,  1837. 

Duden,  Gottfried. — Bericht  iiber  eine  Reise  nach  den  Westlichen 
Staaten  Nord  Amerika's,   und  einen   Mehrjahrigen  Aufenthalt 


T.  S.  Baker.  99 

am  Missouri  in  den  Jahren  1824,  1825,  1826,  und  1827  in  Bezug 
auf  Auswanderung  und  Ubervolkerung,  oder,  Das  Leben  ini 
Inneren  der  Vereinigten  Staaten  und  dessen  Bedeutung  fiir  die 
hausliche  und  politische  Lage  der  Europaer.  Elberfeldt,  1829. 
Zweite  Ausgabe,  Bonn,  1834.  Dritte  Ausgabe,  St.  Gallen,  1853. 
Auf  Kosten  der  Schweizerischen  Auswanderungs-Gesellschaft. 
Einige  Blatter  des  Werkes  Europa  und  Deutschland,  &c.  Fiir 
die  Besitzervon  dessen  Amerikanische  Reise-berichte  besonders 
abgedruckt.     Bonn,  1835. 

Duden,  Gottfried. — Europa  und  Deutschland  von  Nord  Amerika  aus 
betrachtet  oder  die  Europaische  Entwicklung  im  19  Jahrhundert 
in  Bezug  auf  die  Lage  der  Deutschen,  nach  einer  Priifung  im 
inneren  Nord  Amerika.     Zwei  Biinde.     Bonn,  1833-35. 

Egenter,  F,  J. — Amerika  ohne  Schminke.  Eine  Quellensammlung 
zur  Darstellung  des  Amerikanischen  Lebens  in  der  Wirklichkeit. 
Zurich,  1857. 

Eggerling,  H.  W.  E. — Beschreibung  der  Vereinigten  Staaten.  Mann- 
heim, 1833. 

Ehrenberg,  Herman. — Texas  und  die  Revolution.     Leipzig,  1843. 

Eickhoff. — In  der  neuen  Heimath.     New  York,  1885. 

Ernst,  Ferd. — Bemerkungen  auf  einer  Reise  durch  das  Innere  der 
Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nord  Amerika  im  Jahre  1819.  Hildes- 
heim,  1820. 

Fenneberg,  Fenner  von. — Transatlantische  Studien.     Stuttgart,  1861. 

Fleischman  (C.  L.). — Der  Nord  Amerikanische  Landwirth.  Frank- 
furt, 1848. 

Fleischman  (C.  L.). — Erwerbzweige,  Fabrikwesen  und  Handel  in  den 
Vereinigten  Staaten.  Stuttgart,  1850.  Wegweiser  und  Rath- 
geber  nach  und  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten.     Stuttgart,  1852. 

Frobel,  Jul. — Die  Deutsche  Auswanderung  und  ihre  cultur-historische 
Bedeutung.  Fiinfzehn  Briefe  an  den  Herausgeber  der  Allge- 
meine  Auswanderungs-Zeitung.     Leipzig,  1858. 

Gall,  L. — Meine  Auswanderung  nach  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  in  1819. 
Trier,  1822. 

Gerke  (H.  C.). — Der  Nordamerikanische  Rathgeber  nebst  den  in  den 
Jahren  1831  und  1832  in  der  Union  gemachten  Reisebeobach- 
tungen  und  Taschen-buch  fiir  Deutsche  Auswandererjeder  Art. 
Hamburg,  1833. 

Gobel,  G. — Langer  als  ein  Menschenleben  in  Missouri.  St.  Louis,  1877. 


lOO  Young  Germany  in  America. 

Gorling,  A. — Die   Neue   Welt.     Skizzen  von  Land  und  Leuten  der 

Nord  Amerikanschen  Freistaaten.     Leipzig,  1828. 
Grisson,    W, — Beitriige   zur  Charakteristik  der  Vereinigten  Staaten. 

Hamburg,  1844. 
Hass,  Caul  de. — Nord  Amerika.     Wisconsin.      Winke  fiir  Auswan- 

derer.     Barmen,   1846. 
Hecke,  J,  V. — Reise   durch   die  Vereinigten   Staaten  in  den  Jahren 

1818-19.     Berlin,    1820-21. 
Heinzen,  M. — Deutscher  Radikalismus  in  Amerika.     Zwei  Bande. 
Hunter,  J.  D. — Der  Gefangene  unter  den  Wilden  in  Nord  Amerika. 

Herausgegeben  von  W.  A.  Lindau,   3  Theile,   i  Band.     Dres- 
den, 1824. 
Julius,  N.  H. — Nord  Amerika's  Sittliche  Zustande,   1834-36.     Leip- 
zig, 1839. 
Kosz,  Rudolph  A. — Milwaukee.     Milwaukee,  1872. 
Kapp,   Fr. — Die  Stellung  der  Deutschen  Einwanderung  in  Amerika. 

New  York,  1868. 
Geschichte  der  Deutschen  Einwanderung  im  Staate  New  York, 

bis  zum  Anfang  des  igten  Jahrhunderts.     Dritte  Auflage,  New 

York,  Steiger. 
Kattenkamp,    F. — Geschichte    der    Colonisation    Amerika's.      Zwei 

Bande.     Frankfurt,  1850. 
Kirsten,  A. — Skizzen  aus  den  Vereinigten  Staaten.     Leipzig,  1851. 
Klauprecht,  Emil — Deutsche  Chronik  in  der  Geschichte   des   Ohio- 

thales.     Hof  und  Jakobi,  Cincinnati,  1864. 
Koch,  A.  C. — Reise  durch  einen  Theil  der  Vereinigten  Staaten,  1844- 

46.     Dresden,  1847. 
Koerner,  Gustav. — Das  Deutsche  Element  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten 

von  Nord-Amerika,  1818-1848.    2teAusgabe.     New  York,  1884. 
Kohl,  J.  G. — Reisen  im  Nord-Westen  der  Vereinigten  Staaten.    New 

York,  1857. 
Kohler. — Briefe  aus  Amerika.     Darmstadt,  1854. 
Kriier,  A. — Der  Aufstand  in  Missouri,  1862. 
Lieber,  Francis. — Letters  to  a  Gentleman  in  Germany.      Philadelphia, 

1834. 
The   Stranger   in    America,    Sketches  of    manners,    society   and 

national  peculiarities  of  the  United  States.     Philadelphia,  1835. 
Loher,    F. — Geschichte   und   Zustande  der   Deutschen   in   Amerika. 

Cincinnati,  1847.     Zweite  Auflage.     Gottingen,  1855. 
Land  und  Leute  in  der  alten  und  neuen  Welt.     Gottingen,  1855. 


T.  S.  Baker.  loi 

Ludvigh,  S. — Licht  und  Schatten-bilder   republikanischer   Zustande 

wiihrend   einer    Reise   in    den    Vereinigten   Staaten,     1846-47. 

Leipzig,  1848. 
Marr. — Das  junge  Deutschland  in  der  Schweiz. 

Martels. — Briefe  iiber  die  westlichen  Theile  der  Vereinigten  Staaten. 
Maximilian,  Alexander  Philipp,  Prinz  von  Wied  Neuwied. — Reise  in 

das  innere  Nord-Amerika,  1832-34.     Coburg,  1839-41. 
Voyage  dans  I'lnterieur  de  I'Amerique  du  Nord,  execute  pendant 

les  Annees  1 832-34.     5  v.  Atlas  par  C.  Bodmer,  Paris  1840-43. 

Translated  by  H.  Evans  Lloyd.     London,  1843. 
Miiller,  L  H. — Reisen  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten.     Leipzig,  1864-65. 
Miinch,  Fr. — Erinnerungen  aus  Deutschlands  triibster  Zeit.     St.  Louis 

und  Neustadt  a.  d.  Hardt. 
Nauman,  J. — Reise  nach  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nord-Amerika, 

Siebenjiihriger  Aufenthalt  u.  s.  w.     Leipzig,  1830. 
Nolte,  Vinzent. — Reminiscenzen  zweier  Welten.     Zwei  Bande.     Ham- 
burg, 1854. 
Palmer  (translator). — Reisebemerkungen  uber  die  Vereinigten  Staaten, 

und  Nieder-Canada  in  1817-18.     Jena,  1819. 
Plitts. — Amerikanische  Nachrichten.     Philadelphia,  1819-21. 
Raumer,  F.  L.  G.  von — America  and  the  American  People.     From  the 

German  by  W.  W.  Turner.     New  York,  1846. 
Reinmann,  E. — Die  Vereinigten  Staaten  im  Ubergange  vom  Staaten- 

bund  zum  Bundesstaat.     Weimar,  1855. 
Richter,  K.  E. — Der  Freund  des  Auswanderers.     Darmstadt,  1851. 

Briefe  aus  Amerika  fiir  Deutsche  Auswanderer.     Darmstadt,  1852. 
Riedlen,   W.   R. — Guter  Rath   an   Einwanderer   in   die    Vereinigten 

Staaten.     Aarau,  1834. 
Ries,  J. — Schilderungen  des  Treibens  in  Leben  und  Handel  in  den 

Vereinigten  Staaten  und  Havana,  1837-39.     Berlin.  1840. 
Ritter  und  Gozler's — Amerikanischer  Correspondent.     Philadelphia, 

1825-32. 
Rivinus,  E.  F. — Atlantis,  Journal  des  neuesten  und  wissenswiirdigsten 

der  Nord-  und  Siid-Amerikanischen  Reiche.    3  v.  in  1.    Leipzig, 

1826-27. 
Roding,  C.  A. — Amerika  im  Jahre  1828-29.     Hamburg. 
Romer,  Ferd. — Texas.     Bonn,  1849. 
Rattermann. — Geschichte    des    Groszen    Amerikanischen    Westens. 

Cincinnati,  1875. 
Rosz. — Praktische  Winke  fur  Auswanderer. 
Roth,  Dr. — Rathschlage  und  Warnungen.     Augsburg,  1848. 


I02  Ycniiig   Germany  in  America. 

Sabin,  Joseph. — A  Dictionary  of  Books  relating  to  America  from  its 

Discovery  to  the  Present  Time. 
Saint- Victor. — Briefe  liber  die  Vcreinigten  Staaten  von  Nord-Amerika. 

Aus  dem  Franzosischen.     BerUn,  1835. 
Schem,  Alex. — Deutsch-Amerikanisches  Konversations-Lexicon.     XI 

Bande.     New  York,  1869-74. 
Schiel,  J. — Reise  durch  die  Felsengebirge  und  die  Humboldtgebirge 

nach  dem  stillen  Ocean.     Schaflfhausen,  185c. 
Schuberth. — Rathgeber   und    Fiihrer  fur   Auswanderer.      Hamburg, 

1848. 
Sealsfield,  Charles. — Life  in  the  New  World  or  Sketches  of  American 

Society.     From  the  German  by  G.  C.  and  J.  Mackay.     New 

York,  1842. 
Seidensticker,   Dr.   Oswald. — Geschichte  der  Deutschen    Gesellschaft 

von  Pennsylvania  von  1764-1876.     Philadelphia,  1876. 
Sidons. — Die  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Nord-Amerika  nach  ihren  poli- 

tischen  religiosen  undgesellschaftlichen  Verhaltnissen  betrachtet. 

Stuttgart,   1827. 
Stierlin,  L. — Der  Staat  Kentucky  und  die  Stadt  Louisville,  1873. 

The  Biographical  Encyclopedia  of  Ohio  of   the    19th    Century. 

Cincinnati  and  Philadelphia.     Galaxy  Publishing  Co.,  1876. 
Thummel,  R.  R. — Die  Natur  und  das  Leben  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten 

in  ihrer  Licht-und  Schattenseite.     Erlangen,  1848. 
Vulpius,   F. — Amerikanische  Erfahrungen.     Winke  und  Warnungen 

fUr  Auswanderungslustige.     Bellevue,  1847. 
Wagner  und  Scherzer. — Reise  in  Nord  Amerika  in  den  Jahren  1852-53. 

Leipzig,  1854. 
Warder,  K.  F.  W. — Auswanderungs  Katechismus.     Glogau,  1854. 
Wegweiser  und  Rathgeber  nach    und   in   den   Vereinigten   Staaten. 

Stuttgart,   1S52. 
Weitling,  W. — Garantien  der  Harmonic  und  Freiheit. 
Westland  Das — Nord- Amerikanische  Zeitschrift  fiir  Deutschland  von 

Dr.  G.  Engelman  und  Karl  Neyfeld.     Heidelberg,  1837-38. 
Wiegand,  G.  H. — Atlantische  Studien.    Zeitschrift.     Gottingen,  1853. 
Wede,   F.  W. — Lebensbilder  aus  den    Vereinigten  Staaten.     Cassel, 

1844. 
Ziegler,   A. — Skizzen  einer    Reise   durch    Nord  Amerika   und   West 

Indien.     Dresden,  1848. 
Zirckel,  O. — Skizzen  aus  den  und  iiber  die  Vereinigten  Staaten,  fiir 

Auswanderer  Politiker  und  Kapitalisten.      Berlin,  1850. 
Zimmermann. — Deutsch  in  Amerika.     Chicago,     2.  Aug.  1895. 

T.  S.  BAKER. 

JOHNS   HOPKINS   UNIVERSITY, 

BALTIMORE,   MD. 


REVIEWS. 


Geschichte  der  Deutschen  in  Oesterreich-Ungarn. — Von 
Gustav  Strakosch-Grassmann.  I.  Band.  (Von  den  altesten 
Zeiten  bis  zum  Jahre  955.)  Vienna.  Karl  Konegen.  551 
pages. 
A  history  of  the  Germans  in  the  Austro-Hungarian  Monarchy,  if 
possible  at  all,  is  a  task  so  difficult,  so  manysided,  so  vast  in  its  re- 
quirements that  only  he  who  knows  the  Babylonian  tower  of  languages 
proceeding  from  the  variety  of  peoples  and  tribes  united,  or  rather  ag- 
gregated, under  the  Habsburg  crown,  can  appreciate  the  courage  of  the 
historian  who  undertakes  a  work  of  such  scope.  The  colonization, 
the  development,  the  advances  and  the  drawbacks,  the  influences  ex- 
ercised by  the  various  German  races  upon  the  Czechs,  Serbo-Croats 
Slavonians,  the  Slovenes,  i.e.,  the  Slavs  of  Styria,  Carinthia  and  Car- 
niola,  etc.,  and  the  Magyars  ;  on  the  other  hand,  the  many  conscious 
and  unconscious,  voluntary  and  involuntary  modifications  sustained  by 
the  Germans  from  the  Slavic  and  Magyar  peoples,  have  matured  a  Ger- 
manism so  differentiated  that  it  can  by  no  means  be  welded  together 
into  a  uniformity  which  the  above  title  seems  to  indicate.  No  wonder 
then  that  an  exhaustive  critical  treatment  of  the  theme  has  never  been 
undertaken,  notwithstanding  the  excellence  of  the  Austrian  school  of 
historians,  who  preferred  to  discuss  in  numerous  valuable  monographs 
the  history  of  the  German  element  in  the  separate  states  of  the  mon- 
archy without  attempting  an  historical  synthesis,  which  is  perhaps  as  im- 
possible as  the  addition  or  subtraction  of  numbers  of  different  denomi- 
nations. The  attempts  at  a  real  political  union  of  the  many-tongued, 
polyethnic  nation  are,  of  course,  repeated  all  the  time  by  the  statesmen 
at  Vienna  and  at  Budapest,  employing  compromise  or  coercion,  as  the 
case  may  be,  and  this  political  ideal  of  union  has  been  admirably  treated 
in  Biedermann's  Geschichte  der  oesterreichischen  Gesaninitstaatsidee. 
But  the  great  collective  work  Die  Volker  Oesterreich-  Ungarns,  insti- 
tuted and  partly  published  under  the  auspices  of  the  ill-fated  Rudolph, 
crown-prince  of  the  empire-kingdom,  tacitly  confesses  and  acknow- 
ledges by  its  very  title  that  a  racial  and  linguistic  union  of  the  various 
peoples  cannot  even  be  thought  of  The  question  can  only  be  "  How 
far  can  the  numerically  weaker  nationalties  preserve  their  individuality 


I04 


Reviews. 


and  language  under  the  pressure  and  the  constant  attempts  of  absorb- 
tion  by  the  stronger  and  dominating  people?"  After  the  prolonged 
struggle  throughout  the  monarchy,  where  the  German  dominated  over 
the  Czech,  the  Hungarian,  the  Pole  ;  again  the  Hungarian  over  the 
Slavic  races  and  the  Germans  in  his  domain  ;  the  Poles  (in  Galicia) 
over  the  Ruthenian,  not  to  speak  of  the  numerous  complications  in 
the  south  of  the  monarchy,  an  agreement — or  rather  a  resignation  to 
the  inevitable — seems  to  have  been  reached  by  the  government  that 
there  should  be  freedom  for  the  national  development  of  the  various 
peoples,  that  they  should  all  work  out  their  salvation  according  to  their 
own  fashion.  But  the  peoples,  aroused  by  a  local  and  racial  patriotism 
bordering  on  chauvinism,  continue  their  struggle  regardless  of  the 
government  and  verify  the  word  of  the  poet :  "  Es  kann  der  Beste 
nicht  im  Frieden  leben,  wenn  es  dem  bosen  Nachbar  nicht  gefiillt." 
Therefore  the  strife  between  the  Germans  and  the  various  Slavic  races, 
the  Hungarians  and  their  subjected  foreign  countrymen,  the  Poles  and 
Ruthenians,  etc. ,  rages  more  bitterly  than  ever.  If  we  consider,  by 
way  of  illustration,  that  in  Hungary  proper,  (excluding  Transsylvania) 
in  a  population  of  12,882,278  there  are  but  6,658,929  Magyars,  the 
rest  of  the  population  being  divided  among  Germans  (1,770,919),  Rou- 
manians and  Slavs,  we  may  realize  how  precarious  the  condition  of 
the  kingdom  might  become  if  the  dominant  race  should  once  lose 
entirely  the  good  will  of  the  non-Magyar  elements  within  the  realm. 
How  much  violence  has  been  done  to  the  Germans  in  Hungary  is 
sufficiently  proven  by  the  history  of  the  latter  in  general,  and  that  of 
the  Siebenbiirger  Saxons  in  particular.  Also  in  Galicia  the  attempt  to 
introduce  German  as  the  official  language  into  the  administration  and 
the  schools  of  higher  learning  failed  utterly.  Between  1861  and  1870 
the  Polish  language  was  gradually  and  completely  restored  throughout 
the  kingdom  of  Galicia  and  Lodomeria,  and  German  is  in  that  country 
"  ein  verlorner  Posten."  With  all  these  facts  before  us,  we  are  liable 
to  forget  that  after  the  incorporation  of  the  excellently  administered 
provinces  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  into  the  German  Oslmark  and 
the  powerful  revival  of  the  self-consciousness  of  Slavic  individuality 
which  is  giving  vent  to  its  energy  by  an  intense  struggle  for  political 
supremacy,  and  by  the  establishment  of  universities,  academies  of 
sciences  and  a  perfectly  national  school  system,  Austria- Hungary  has 
become  the  second  Slavic  power  in  Europe. 

Under  such  circumstances    Strakosch-Grassmann's   history  of  the 
Germans  in  Austria-Hungary  is  of  the  highest  value,  if  it  can  make 


H.  Schoenfeld.  105 

out  clearly  the  rights  and  just  claims  of  the  Germans  to  the  Austrian 
soil,  the  building  up  not  merely  of  the  dual  state,  but  also  its  civiliza- 
tion, their  relations  to  Slav  and  Magyar  from  the  times  of  the  great 
migrations,  their  mission  of  culture  fulfilled,  their  leading  role  acquired 
by  conquest,  contract,  superior  intelligence  and  age,  their  merits  and 
demerits  in  regard  to  their  political  brethren  of  foreign  stock. 

To  do  this  it  is  necessary  to  know  and  to  sympathize  with  the  his- 
tory, individuality  and  the  ideals  of  the  non-German  races  in  Austria- 
Hungary,  to  know  their  moral  aspirations  as  expressed  in  their  litera- 
tures and  their  history,  and  to  divest  oneself  of  too  pronounced  a 
subjectivity.  Indeed,  Mr.  Strakosch-Grassmann  is  well  equipped  for 
his  task  ;  he  knows  the  Czech  and  Hungarian  languages,  proposes  to 
build  his  work  up  on  the  basis  of  all  the  accessible  sources  and  is  will- 
ing to  devote  the  remainder  of  his  life  to  the  history,  calculated  to 
embrace  five  or  six  volumes. 

The  first  volume  discusses  with  praiseworthy  thoroughness  the 
Germanic  tribes  in  the  Danube  provinces  in  the  late  imperial  Roman 
epoch  (pp.  1-223)  and  the  rise  of  Teutonism  in  the  countries  of  the 
Eastern  Alps  till  the  year  955  (pp.  224-528).  The  general  history 
of  the  migrations  has  been  very  clearly  treated, — at  least  from  the 
standpoint  of  "  Kulturgeschichte,"  by  Felix  Dahn  in  his  historical 
and  novelistic  works  ;  the  origin  of  German  life  in  Austria,  succeeding 
the  Kelto-Roman  foundation,  the  dissolution  of  the  Western  Roman 
Empire  (carrying  with  it  that  of  Vindelicia,  Noricum,  Pannonia  and 
Dacia),  the  immigration  of  the  Slavic  tribes  and  then  the  invasion  of 
the  Germanic  tribes  has  been  ably  treated  by  Kammel  Die  A7ifdnge 
deutschen  Lebens  in  Oesterreich  bis  zum  Ausgange  der  Karolingerzeit. 

But  neither  work  makes  that  of  Strakosch  superfluous,  although  the 
principal  fault  of  the  latter  is  \{\%  genetic  treatment  of  the  history  which 
necessarily  must  have  a  different  mode  of  procedure  in  the  develop- 
ment of  Germanism  in  the  more  or  less  German  countries  (Oesterreich 
ob  der  Enns  and  nid  der  Enns,  the  Tyrol,  Karnthen,  Krain,  Salzburg, 
etc.)  from  those  with  a  prevailing  Slavic  or  Magyar  population  (Bohe- 
mia, Galicia,  the  Danube  provinces,  Hungary).  Besides,  the  German 
element  in  the  eastern  Alpine  and  the  Danube  provinces  is  so  much 
older,  and  consequently  more  indigenous  than  in  Hungary  and  Bohe- 
mia, that  a  uniform,  coherent,  connecting  Hnk  cannot  be  forged  to 
unite  the  various  German  elements  with  their  so  different  past,  history 
and  interests. 

Of  course,  that  the  Slavic  population,  even  in  these  countries,  was 


io6  Reviews. 

not  autochthonous  goes  without  saying/  but  when,  how  long  and  how 
far  a  Germanic  population  dwelt  in  Bohemia,  whose  name  is  said  to  be 
derived  from  the  Celtic  Boii,  who,  in  their  turn,  were  expelled  by  the 
German  Marcomanni  at  the  time  of  the  late  Roman  Republic  and 
disappeared  in  the  twenty  years'  war  with  Marcus  Aurelius  from  their 
abode,  before  the  Slavic  tribe  of  the  Czechs  immigrated  in  the  second 
half  of  the  sixth  century  and  destroyed  or  absorbed  whatever  rem- 
nants of  their  Germanic  predecessors  were  left,  can  never  be  answered 
with  determined  absolute  certainty.  Also  in  Hungary,  in  Moravia  and 
Silesia  (cf  Miillenhof's  6z7zVz;^z  of  Vandal  stock),  an  original  Germanic 
stratum  shows  traces  of  evidence  under  the  powerful  Slavic  layer  that 
fell  upon  it  and  hid  it  from  sight,  the  fact  itself  being  established  in- 
disputably by  the  archaeological  remains  to  that  effect  and  by  historical 
and  linguistic  evidence. 

From  these  most  general  traits  characterizing  the  first  volume  of 
Strakosch-Grassmann's  history  it  may  appear  what  a  valuable  work 
this  History  of  the  Germans  in  Austria- Hungary  will  be,  if  the  author's 
life  and  strength  be  preserved  to  complete  his  monumental  work.  But 
for  the  workers  in  the  field  of  Americana-Germanica,  who  will 
eventually  have  to  solve  similar  problems  in  unearthing  the  constituent 
parts  of  our  amalgamated  nation,  studies  of  this  kind  have  a  special 
value  from  the  lessons  of  analogy  to  be  drawn  from  them. 

Hermann  Schoenfeld. 

THE   COLUMBIAN   UNIVERSITY, 
WASHINGTON.  D.  C. 


Aus  DEN  Erinnerungen  eines  Achtundvierzigers.  Skizzen 
Aus  DER  deutsch-amerikanischen  Sturm-  und  Drang- 
periode  DER  50ER  Jahre.  Von  Jakob  Mueller.  Cleveland, 
Ohio,  1896.     S.  1-262,  Anhang  265-7.     Price  $1.00. 

It  seems  incredible  that  the  Anglo-American  of  average  academic 
culture  should  know  next  to  nothing  of  the  history  of  the  10,000,000 
German- Americans  who  constitute  one  of  the  most  vigorous  ethnical 
elements  in  our  population,  and  who  next  to  the  English  element  have 
contributed  most  to  the  material  and  intellectual  growth  of  the  nation. 


^  How  R.  G.  Latham  {Etktiology  of  Europe,  ch.  11)  can  state:  "At  the 
beginning  of  the  historical  period  Bohemia  was  as  Slavonic  as  it  is  now,"  is 
incomprehensible. 


M.  D.  Learned.  107 

One  might  suppose  that  the  nativistic  tendencies  of  the  American  party 
in  the  late  forties  and  early  fifties  would  have  led  to  a  closer  acquaint- 
ance with  the  dreaded  foreigners  ;  but  if  one  recalls  that  this  party 
was  best  known  as  Kyiownothings,  the  dense  ignorance  of  Anglo- 
Americans  as  to  the  real  character  of  the  incoming  Germans  is  not 
surprising.  The  result  is  that  most  of  the  original  sources  of  informa- 
tion relating  to  these  Germans  is  still  locked  up  in  German  documents. 
Rich  as  this  German  material  has  already  become,  there  remains  much 
valuable  detail  which  is  still  unwritten  history,  and  until  this  matter, 
consisting  largely  of  reminiscences  of  those  who  yet  survive,  is  col- 
lected, it  will  be  impossible  to  write  the  history  of  the  Germans  in 
America. 

But  a  short  time  ago  we  made  an  appeal  for  reminiscences  to  one  of 
the  most  venerable  representatives  of  the  German-American  Press, 
Mr.  Neeb,  Sen.,  of  Pittsburg,  but  before  the  work  could  be  executed 
he  was  called  away  from  the  scenes  of  the  living.  To  those  who  sur- 
vive the  warning  is  :   Carpe  diem. 

The  book  before  us  is  an  excellent  sample  of  such  reminiscent 
material,  and  should  stimulate  other  surviving  forty-eighters  to  leave 
a  record  of  the  eventful  epoch  in  which  they  have  lived.  While  the 
work  deals  especially  with  the  German  forty-eighters  in  Cleveland,  it 
has  at  the  same  time  a  national  importance  as  it  discusses  incidentally 
the  part  the  Germans  of  this  period  took  in  the  political  and  social 
issues  of  the  nation  at  large. 

After  characterizing  the  newly  arrived  German  Weltverbesserer  as 
the  representatives  of  idealism,  the  author  proceeds  to  present  in  vivid 
pictures  the  social,  political,  intellectual,  religious  and  industrial  life 
of  the  Germans  in  Cleveland. 

The  striking  contrast  in  external  appearance  between  the  Puritans 
and  Germans  in  Cleveland  is  set  forth,  the  former  with  high  silk 
hat,  stand-up  collars,  swallow-tail  coat  and  smoothly  shaven  face,  the 
latter  with  soft  felt  hat,  short  coat,  turned-down  collar  and  ' '  staats- 
gefahrlichen  Schnurr-und  Vollbarten  ;"  while  the  inner  contrast 
appears  in  the  americanizing  process  described  in  the  chapter  entitled: 
Patrizier  jcnd  Plebejer.  The  all  too  sad  and  too  real  discourage- 
ments and  disappointments  which  the  German  farmer  unacquainted 
with  American  soil  had  to  encounter,  are  lighted  up  with  genuine 
humor  in  the  chapters  entitled  :  Die  Ersteyi  MeloJieyi  and  Das  Zwie- 
beln-Fiasko.  Under  the  title  Kilia7i,  in  six  chapters,  the  author  gives 
us  a  most  characteristic  prose  idyll  of  the  German's  fiasko  attempts  to 


io8  Reviews. 

imitate  Yankee  versatility.  The  successful  side  of  German  agriculture 
comes  to  view  in  the  chapter  on  Agriculture  lie  Fortschritte,  in  which 
the  old  conservative  farmers  of  the  Pennsylvania-German  school  sees 
a  formidable  rival  method. 

When  the  time  comes  for  the  historical  study  of  Am.erican  agricul- 
ture, the  crossing  of  the  older  German  peasant  method  and  the  newer, 
more  scientific  methods  with  the  various  forms  of  English  and  Ameri- 
can tillage  will  constitute  a  rich  field  of  research.  This  comparative 
study  of  agriculture  might  cast  a  modest  ray  of  light  even  upon  the 
revelations  of  the  test-tube  and  the  microscope. 

The  most  serious  portions  of  the  book  are  those  devoted  to  the 
political  struggles  of  the  Germans  in  their  new  home.  The  account 
of  the  Fremont  Campagne  and  the  Predigt  in  der  Wiiste  present  a 
splendid  picture  of  the  modus  operandi  of  western  politics  in  the  ante- 
bellum days  and  of  the  author's  drole  experience  in  making  German 
stump-speeches  to  audiences  from  which  the  Germans  gradually  with- 
drew, leaving  the  un-German  listeners  to  reward  the  speaker  with  their 
vociferous  applause  at  the  close.  This  chapter  sheds  important  side- 
light upon  the  part  the  Germans  played  in  the  organization  of  the 
Republican  party  and  upon  the  influence  of  the  Rocky  Mountain 
explorations,  which  encircled  "die  Person  Fremonts  mit  einem 
romaniischen  Glorienschein,  der  selbst  die  glanzendsten  Helden  der 
griechischen  Mythologie  in  diisteren  Schatten  stellte,"  and  upon  the 
role  of  Frau  Jessy  Fremont  with  her  "Jessy  Clubs"  in  the  campaign. 

In  the  chapter  entitled  :  Deutsch-Ainerika^iische  Parlame7ite  we  are 
reminded  again  of  the  Promethian  projects  and  Utopian  schemes  of  the 
Germans  for  revolutionizing  the  American  government — such  as  the 
abolition  of  the  Presidency  advocated  by  Karl  Heinzen,  the  abolition 
of  money  proposed  by  Hobelmann,  the  agitation  against  Romanism 
and  Papism  led  by  Hassauret,  the  "  maasvolle "  emancipation  of 
woman,  presaging  the  reign  of  the  "new  woman,"  gently  defended 
by  Kasper  Butz — all  but  side-issues  compared  with  the  mammoth 
empire-project  proposed  by  Carl  Goepp  in  the  famous  Wheeling 
Congress,  the  annexation  of  Germany  by  the  great  American  Re- 
public— a  scheme,  which,  first  set  forth  by  Goepp  in  his  E  pluribus 
Umcm  and  afterward  elaborated  in  English  under  the  title  of  The  New 
Rome,  was  to  unite  the  republican  world  in  a  death  struggle  against 
the  last  surviving  representative  of  Old  Rome. 

The  chapters  on  Goepp,  Kiyikel,  Kossuth,  eine  Finanz- Krisis  of  the 
wildcat  epoch,  Lincoln,  Dem  Sieger  die  Beute  and  Ziir  Eiyiwande- 


M.  D.  Learned.  109 

riingsfrage  are  most  valuable  material  to  the  student  of  American 
history. 

In  closing  we  wish  to  repeat  the  words  of  the  New  York  Staats- 
zeitimg :  "Das  Buch  sollte  von  jedem  Deutsch-Amerikaner  gelesen 
werden"  and  let  us  add,  by  every  American  who  can  read  German. 

The  literary  side  of  German  life  in  Cleveland  did  not  offer  as  rich  a 
field  as  might  be  found  in  other  cities.  We  could  have  wished  that  the 
chapter  on  the  Deutsche  Presse  had  been  extended  by  more  detail 
which  the  Lieutenant-Governor  of  the  Buckeye  State  must  pos- 
sess. What  wealth  of  information  similar  reminiscences  of  German 
life  in  Milwaukee,  Cincinnati,  St.  Louis  and  other  cities  would  add  to 
the  history  of  the  Germans  in  America.  Let  us  hope  that  a  host  of 
German-American  autobiographical  reminiscences  may  yet  come  forth 
having  as  good  a  claim  to  companionship  with  Friedrich  Miinch's 
Erinnerungen  aus  Deutschlands  trubster  Zeit^  and  Heinrich  Leos  Aus 
meijier  Jugendzeit  as  the  Erinne7'ungen  of  Jakob  Mueller. 


Gedichte  von  Friedrich  Karl  Castelhun.  Zweite  stark  ver- 
mehrte  Auflage.  Verlag  der  Buchhandlung  des  Schweiz.  Griit- 
livereins  in  Zurich  und  der  Freidenker  Publishing  Company  in 
Milwaukee  (United  States),  1896. 

The  Gold  State  and  the  City  of  the  Golden  Gate  have  more  to  be 
proud  of  than  the  yellow  nuggets  of  the  mountains.  Culture  and 
Poesy  too  have  a  natural  affiliation  with  gold  and  the  University  of 
California  and  the  Leland  Stanford,  Jr.,  University  and  the  poets, 
Castelhun,  KirchhofT,  "  der  Dichter  vom  Goldnen  Thor  "  (The  Bard 
of  the  Golden  Gate),  and  Goebel  are  illustrations  both  of  the  culture 
and  the  poesy  of  the  "  Gold  diggings." 

As  it  does  not  fall  within  the  plan  of  the  Americana  Germanica  to 
review  publications  issued  before  1896,  it  will  be  in  place  here  to  men- 
tion in  passing  the  Balladen  und  neue  Gedichte  of  Theodor  KirchhofF, 
which  belong  to  the  best  German  poetry  written  in  America  and  form 
a  splendid  companion  collection  to  the  Gedichte  of  Dr.  Castelhun. 
While  KirchhofF  revels  in  the  legends  of  the  New  World  rising  at  times 
to  epic  height,  Castelhun  sings  in  the  shorter  strains  of  personal  and 
political  reminiscence  in  epigrams,  sonnets  and  distiches.  Castelhun 
has  given  especial  attention  to  the  Distichon  and  has  attained  great 
mastery  of  this  form  of  verse,  rivaling  the  best  of  the  most  classic 
German  poets.     The  peculiar  charm  of  his  distiches  lies  in  the  smooth 


no  Reviews. 

rythmical  movement  and  in  the  happy  coincidence  of  rhetorical  and 
metrical  caesura.  It  is  the  failure  to  observe  this  demand  of  the 
modern  ear  which  has  marred  the  more  pretentious  hexameters  of 
some  of  our  greatest  poets.     A  specimen  will  illustrate  Castelhun's  art. 

"Trennt  vom  Staate  die  Kirche  sowie  von  dieser  die  Schule, 
Macht  es  der  Jugend  zur  Pflicht,  dasz  sie  die  freie  besucht ; 
Dann  erst  mag  es  gelingen,  ein  einiges  Volk  zu  erziehen, 
Das  als  freies  zugleich  sich  zu  regieren  versteht. " 

It  would  be  a  false  impression  if  we  left  the  reader  thinking  the  most 
of  Castelhun's  poems  to  be  distiches,  on  the  contrary,  the  larger  part 
of  the  collection  is  written  in  other  lyric  forms  equally  rythmical. 
Some  of  these  poems  have  become  classic  for  the  German-American, 
particularly  that  entitled  Anmeiyie  Kinder  : 

' '  Pflegt  die  deutsche  Sprache, 
Hegt  das  deutsche  Wort 
Denn  der  Geist  der  Vater 
Lebt  darinnen  fort." 

The  poem  Keine  Sklaven  in  Nebraska  is  a  glowing  stream  of  anti- 
slavery  sentiment  worthy  of  the  most  heroic  German  defender  of  the 
black  man's  rights 

"  Ja  so  lange  soil  es  schallen  unser  neues  Feldgeschrei  : 
Keine  Sklaven  in  Nebraska,  Untergang  der  Sklaverei ! ' ' 

Among  the  poems  of  Anti-Puritan  sentiment,  which  Castelhun  shares 
with  the  great  host  of  forty-eighters,  may  be  mentioned  Der  Yatikee 
Soiuitag  and  A7iti-Prohibitio7islied.  Characteristic  pictures  are  to  be 
found  in  the  handful  of  poems  entitled  :  In  Kalifornien.  Of  the 
poems  added  to  the  new  edition,  that  entided  :  Eschscholtzia  califoryi- 
ica,  the  name  of  the  flower  made  by  Act  of  legislature  the  State  flower 
of  California. 


FuMAROLEN  UND  ScHLACKEN.     Von  Emil  Edel.   Hildesheim,   Ger- 
stenberg'sche  Buchhandlung,  1897. 

A  collection  of  pithy  poems  reflecting  German  student  life  of  the 
forties  and  rising  at  times  to  a  height  of  political  and  national  signifi- 
<;ance.  Such  for  example  is  the  Biindeslied  der  Progressiste^i,  which 
contains  at  least  one  striking  reminiscence  of  Ernst  Moritz  Arndt. 


M.  D.  Learned.  iii 

"  Hebt  die  Becher  und  der  Freiheit  Ruf 
Erschalle  laut  durch  unsers  Vaterlandes  Gauen, 
Denn  der  Gott,  der  uns  zu  M'dnnern  scktif, 
Der  wollte  kehie  Sklavenseelen  schauen. ' ' 

The  most  spirited  poem  of  the  collection  is  Bei  Krakau  (Marz  1846). 
Some  of  the  poems  have  a  special  importance  for  American  readers : 
Die  Auswajiderer  (1S46-47),  a  series  of  familiar  emigration  episodes, 
and  Die  Abendgcsellschaft  in  §0  Mosaikst'ucken  von  Oswald  Seiden- 
sticker.  This  latter  is  a  dialogue  poem  written  by  the  late  Professor 
Seidensticker,  while  he  was  a  Seacndayier  in  the  Gymnasium,  and  is  here 
published  by  his  friend  as  a  grateful  memorial.  Every  student  will 
relish  the  faithfulness  of  this  sentiment  of  the  Student  : 

' '  Das  fade  Theegewasch  ist  mir 
Entsetzlich  unverdaulich  ; 
Ein  Rundgesang  beim  Schoppen  Bier 
Der  klingt  doch  noch  erbaulich  !" 

It  is  not  difficult  to  recognize  in  this  early  production  the  genial 
humor  of  Professor  Seidensticker's  later  poems,  especial  of  his  J^est- 
grusz  zu  Dr.  Constantin  Hering'  s  achtzigstem  Geburtstage  (1880). 
The  spiciest  portion  of  Edel's  collection  is  Confetti  und  Moccoli,  Neue 
Sammlung,  a  clever  flash  of  epigrammatic  sparks. 


Flugel-Schmidt-Tanger.  a  Dictionary  of  the  English  and  Ger- 
man language  for  home  and  school,  with  special  reference  to 
Dr.  Felix  Fliigel's  universal  English- German  and  German- 
English  Dictionary.  In  two  parts.  Lemcke  &  Buechner,  New 
York.     George  Westermann,  Brunswick.     1896. 

The  question  of  dictionaries  like  that  of  encyclopedias  has  occa- 
sioned the  American  scholar  and  reader  great  discomfort,  in  that  so 
many  books  purporting  to  be  practically  new  works,  or  at  least,  thor- 
ough revisions  of  old  works,  are,  in  reality,  for  the  most  part,  clippings 
from  earlier  standard  works.  While  this  is  applicable  to  certiain 
English  dictionaries  and  to  most  of  the  encyclopedias  published  in 
America,  German-English  lexicons  have  not  been  free  from  the  fault. 

The  work  before  us  marks  positive  advance  over  its  predecessors  in 
that  it  has  been  compiled  with  special  reference  to  the  needs  of  the 
of  the  school  and  represents  what  may  be  regarded  as  the  living  speech 


112  Revieivs. 

of  Germany,  England  and  America.  The  editors  have  put  the  best 
of  their  experience  and  scholarship  into  the  work.  They  have  even 
gone  so  far  as  to  include  provincialisms  and  slang. 

"  Provincialisms  as  well  as  slang-terms  have  been  embodied  in  our 
work  to  a  considerable  extent  because  they  are  constantly  encroaching 
upon  the  conversational  language  even  of  the  educated  classes." 
While  Scotch  and  Irish  idioms  are  not  admitted  on  the  ground  that 
they  have  not  been  received  into  English  literature.  "A  fair  amount 
of  space,  however,  has  been  allowed  to  Americanisms."  The  diction- 
ary contains  within  its  scope  besides  the  vocabulary  of  general  inter- 
course and  literature  more  general,  scientific  and  technical  terms.  The 
English  vocabulary  includes  nothing  earlier  than  the  Elizabethan 
Period  and  obsolete  words,  when  cited,  are  designated  as  such.  An 
examination  of  the  book  will  show  at  once  its  superiority  over  many 
of  its  predecessors.  In  the  definitions  there  is  evidence  of  personal 
experience  with  the  words  and  idioms  employed.  This  is  of  the 
greatest  value  to  the  student  who  is  often  obliged  to  look  in  vain  in 
his  best  Dictionary  for  a  definition  and  an  example  that  will  fit  his 
case.  Take  for  example  such  idioms  as  these, — mit  etwas  abfallen: 
to  miss  one' s  aim,  to  be  floored,  to  vieet  a  rebuff,  to  be  sniibbed ;  abfallen 
lassen — to  rebuff,  to  snubb,  to  give  a  set-down  to  give  the  cold  shoulder, 
to  give  the  slip  to  a  lover.  The  typography  of  the  work  should 
become  a  model  for  similar  books,  the  clearness  of  type  and  spacing 
together  with  the  heavy  paper  make  reference  easy,  and  the  price  is 
within  the  reach  of  every  student. 


RECENT    ACQUISITIONS   OF   GERMAN-AMERICANA. 


1796-1896, — A  Century  Old  Newspaper.  The  Reading  Adler.  Printed 
at  Reading,  Pennsylvania,  U.  S.  A.  (Presented  by  Dr.  G. 
Kellner,  Editor  Phila.  Demokrat.) 

Addresses  delivered  at  the  Lowell  Commemoration,  held  in  the  Archi- 
tektenhaus,  Berlin,  February  19,  1897.  Mayer  &  Miiller,  Ber- 
lin.    (Presented  by  Professor).  T.  Hatfield). 

Andree,  Dr.  Karl. — Das  Westland.  Magazin  fiir  Kunde  amerika- 
nischer  Verhaltnisse.  Bremen,  1852.  C.  Schiinemann's  Verlags- 
handlung,  New  York  :  G.  B.  Westermann  Brothers.  Bd.  1-5, 
all  that  appeared.     (Purchased.) 

Arjuna,  Harald. — Klassisch  oder  Volksthiimlich  ?  Auch  ein  Bei- 
trag  zur  Losung  der  Schulfrage  von  Harold  Arjuna.  Leipzig. 
Verlag  von  Gustav  Foek,  1896.  (Presented  by  Harold  A. 
Graewell.) 

Castelhun,  Friedrich  Karl. — Gedichte.  Zweite  stark  vermehrteAuflage. 
Verlag  der  Buchhandl.  d.  Schweiz.  Griitli-  Vereins  in  Zurich 
und  d.  Freidenker  Publishing  Co.  in  Milwaukee,  1896.  (Pre- 
sented by  the  author). 

Catalog  der  Deutsch-amerikanischen  Bibliothek  des  Germania  Manner- 
chor,  1894.  Press  of  Max  Stern  &  Co.,  Chicago.  (Presented 
by  Judge  Brentano). 

Dorflinger,  Carl. — Amerikanischer  Turner- Kalender.  Milwaukee, 
1 880- 1 896  complete.     (Purchased). 

Eggert,  C.  A. — Goethe  und  Diderot.  Uber  Schauspieler  und  die 
Kunst  des  Schauspielers.  Sonderabdruck  aus  "Eupborion." 
Bd.  III.     Heft  2.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 

Erinnerungsschrift  des  Nord-Amerikanischen  Turner-Bundes  Gewid- 
met  von  dessen  Vertretern  bei  der  Weltausstellung  den  Freun- 
den  und  Forderern  des  deutschen  Turnwesens  in  den  Vereinig- 
ten  Staaten.  Chicago,  1893.  (Presented  by  Mr.  Voigt  of  the 
Philadelphia  Tut  ngenieinde. 

Faust,  A.  B.— Charles  Sealsfield  (Carl  Postl),  Der  Dichter  beider 
Hemispharen.  Sein  Leben  und  seine  Werke.  Weimar.  Verlag 
von  Emil  Felber,  1897.     (Presented  by  the  author). 


114  Recent  Acquisitions  of  Gerviaii-Americana. 

Fest  Zeitung. — Published  by  United  Singers  of  Philadelphia. 

Fest  Zeitung. — aystes    Bundes-Turnfest,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,    1897.     6,  7, 

8  and  9  Mai,  1S97.     No.  i,  June,  1896. 
Fischer.  H.  L. —  Kurzvveil  im  Zeitvertreib  2  ed.     York,  1897. 
Historical  Review  of  Philadelphia,  1896.     The  Philadelphia  Inquirer 

International  Edition. 
Hertz,  D.  R. — Patriots'  Day.     Ephrata.     Penna. ,  Sept.  11,  1894. 
In  Memoriam  Lorenz  Brentano,  Born  November  4,  1813.     Died  Sep- 
tember 17th,  1891.     (Presented  by  Judge  Brentano,  of  Chicago). 
Jahrbuch  fiir  1896.     Germania  Mannerchor.     Press  of  Max  Stern  & 

Co.,  Chicago.     (Presented  by  the  Society). 
132.  Jahresbericht  der  Deutschen  Gesellschaft  von  Pennsylvanien  fiir 

dasJahriSgS.      Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1897. 
Jastrow,  Morris  Jr. — Documents  Relating  to  the  Career  of  Col.  Isaac 

Franks.     From  Publications  of  the  American  Jewish  Historical 

Society,  No.  5,  1896.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Kirchhoff,  Theodor. — Balladen  und  Neue  Gedichte.     Altona,  Schlii- 

ter'sche  Buchhandlung,  New  York.    Steiger  &  Co.    (Presented 

by  the  author). 
Knortz,  Karl. — Das  Nibelungenlied  von  Wilhelm  Jordan.     Mit  dem 

Anhange  :  Richard  Wagner  in  Amerika.     Glarus  und  Leipzig. 

B.  Vogel.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Knortz,  Karl.  —  Individualitat.    Padagogische  Betrachtungen.    Edward 

Heinrich  Mayer.     Leipzig,  1897.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Kunz,    Hugo. — Siid-Amerikanische   Rundschau.      Berlin- Charlotten- 

burg,  April,  1S97.     No.  i.  v.  Jahrg.     (Presented  by  the  editor). 
Lins,  A. — Common  Sense  Pennsylvania- German  Dictionary.   Reading. 

(Presented  by  Dr.  A.  R.  Home  and  Dr.  John  Marshall,  two 

copies.) 
Marxhausen. — Deutsch-amerikanischer  Dichterwald.    Eine  .Sammlung 

von  Originalgedichten  Deutsch-amerikanischer  Verfasser.     De- 
troit, Mich.,  1856.     Druck  u.  Verlag  von  A.  &  C.  Marxhausen. 

(Purchased). 
Metzner,  Heinrich.— Jahrbiicher  der  Deutsch-Amerik.  Turnerei  Bd.  I- 

III,  1890-3  complete.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Mueller,   Jakob. — Aus   den    Erinnerungen    eines   Achtundvierzigers. 

Skizzen  aus  der  deutsch-amerikanischen  Sturm-  und   Drang- 

Periode  der  5oer  Jahre,   Cleveland,  Ohio.     Druck  von  Rud. 

Schmidt  Printing  Co.,  1896.     (Presented  by  the  author). 


Recent  Acquisitions  of  German-Americana.  115 

Philadelphia  Turngemeinde  Review.   Published  to  the  interest  of  the 
Philadelphia  Turngemeinde,  vol.  i,    1896.      (Presented  by  the 
author). 
Pracht,  Viktor.— Texas  im  Jahre  1848.     Elberfeld  u.  Iserlohn,  Julius 

Badeker,  1849.     (Purchased). 
Preuss,  A. — The  Review.     St.  Louis.     (Presented  by  the  editor.) 
Rattermann,  H.  A. — Albrecht  Diirer.  Denkrede  gehalten  zur  Feier  des 
425.   Geburtstages  desselben.      Cincinnati,   Ohio.     Verlag   des 
Verfassers,  i8g6.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Reichenbach,  Emil. — Kurzer  Ruckblick   auf  die   fiinf  und  zwanzig- 
jahrige  Vergangenheit  der  evangelisch-lutherischen  Dreieinig- 
keits-Gemeinde  zu  Boston,  Mass.     Boston,  1896.      (Presented 
by  Adolf  Biewend,  Pastor). 
Rosengarten,  J.  G.— Der  Deutsche  Soldat  in  den  Kriegen  der  Vereinig- 
ten    Staaten    von    Nordamerika.      Ubersetzt    von    C.    Grosse 
Kassel,  1890.     Verlag  von  Theodor  Kay.     (Presented  by  the 
author. ) 
Rosengarten,  J.   G. — Sources  of  History.     A  paper  read  before  the 
German-American  Historical   Society  of    New   York   and   the 
Pionier-Verein  of  Philadelphia.     Philadelphia,  1892.     Press  of 
Wm.  F.  Fell  &  Co.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Sachse,  J.  F.— Die  Bapier  Miihle  der  Brliderschafift  zu  Ephrata,  etc. 

Lancaster,  Pa.,  1897.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Schmidt.    Friedrich. — Deutsche  Handschriften   in    Maihingen.       Ein 
Nachtrag  zu  Germania  VHI,  48  ff.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Schmit-Wartenburg,  H. — Inedita  des  Heinrich  Kaufringer.    Chicago. 

University  Chicago  Press,  1897.     (Presentsd  by  the  editor). 
Schoenfeld,  H.  — Ouellen  zur  Geschichte  der  Erziehung  in  den  Vereinig- 
ten   Staaten   (Sonder-Abdruck   aus   dem  Padagog.  Archiv.  38 
Jahrg.  1896,  Heft  9.) 
Schoenfeld,  H. — Higher  Education  in  Russian,  Austrian  and  Prussian 
Poland.     Chapter   from   the   report  of   the   Commissioner   of 
Education  for  1S94-95.     Washington,  1896.    (Presented  by  the 
author). 
Schurz,  Carl.— Rede  gehalten  am  5.  September,  1896,  in  Chicago. 
Seebaum,  Josef  Alexander.— Tam-Tam,  Kritische  und  humoristische 

Vierteljahrsschrift.     Chicago,  1896.     (I,  4,  f.). 
Seebaum,   Josef  Alexander.— [Ed.]  Tam-Tam.   Almanach  fiir    1897. 
Erste  Festausgabe.     Zehnter  Jahrgang   1 887-1 897.     Chicago, 
111.     (Presented  by  the  editor). 


ii6  Recent  Acquisitions  of  German-Americana. 

Seebaum,  Josef  Alexander. — Bibel-Bliithen.  2te  verbessete  u.  giinzl. 
verandete  Auflage.     Chicago.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 

Thomas,  J.  W. — German  Romanticism.  A  Dissertation.  (Presented 
by  the  author). 

Nocke,  WiUiam. — Der  deutsche  Soldat  im  amerikanischen  Biirger- 
kriege.  Vortrag  gehalten  vor  dem  Literaturverein  der  North- 
western University  in  Evanston,  111.,  am  5.  December,  1895. 
Verlag  von  Kolling  &  Klappenbach,  Chicago.  (Presented  by 
Professor  Henry  Cohn). 

Vos,  B.  J. — The  Diction  and  Rime-Technic  of  Hartman  von  Aue. 
Lemcke  &  Buechner,  New  York  and  Leipzig.  A  Grevel  &  Co., 
London,  1896.     (Presented  by  the  author). 

Wettstein,  Th. — Der  nordamerikanische  Freistaat  Wisconsin  in  seiner 
physischen,  sozialen  und  politischen  Gestalt.  Zur  Belehrung 
und  Warnung  fur  deutsche  Auswanderer.  Nebst  einer  ausfiihr- 
lichen  Darstellung  aller  Gewerb-  Fabrik-Industrie-  und  Hand- 
lungszweige.  Elberfeld  u.  Iserlohn,  J.  Badeker,  185 1. 
(Purchased). 

Winkworth,  Catharine. — Lyra  Germanica  :  Hymns  for  the  Sunday 
and  Chief  Festivals  of  the  Christian  Year.  Translated  from  the 
German  by  Catharine  Winkworth.  New  York,  Delisser  & 
Procter,  1859.  Lyra  Germanica.  Second  series.  The  Christian 
Life.  New  York.  Anson  D.  F.  Randolph,  1859.  (Presented 
by  Dr.  C.  G.  Child). 
— Theologia  Germanica,  etc  Edited  by  Dr.  Pfeifter,  from  the 
only  complete  manuscript  yet  known.  Translated  from  the 
German  by  Susanna  Winkworth.  Andover  and  Boston,  1856. 
(Presented  by  Dr.  C.  G.  Child). 

Zimmerman,  Thos.  C. — Schiller's  "The  Song  of  the  Bell,"  and  other 
Poems.  Translated  [Second  Edition,  1896].  [Printed  for 
private  circulation  only.]  Reading,  Pa.,  1896.  (Presented  by 
the  translator), 

Zur  Erinnerung  an  das  25Jahrige  Stiftungsfest  des  Turn-Vereins, 
"  Vorwarts,"  zu  Baltimore,  am  3.  und 4.  July,  1S92.  (Presented 
by  L.  C.  Schneidereith). 


Vol.  I.  1897  No.  3. 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA. 


LENAU   IN   AMERIKA/ 


LENAUS   ANSICHTEN   UBER   AMERIKA. 

Wenngleich  Lenaus  Auffassung  amerikanischer  Verhaltnisse 
uns  heutzutage  kindisch  vorkommt,  so  verdient  sie  dock  aus  zwei 
Griindeii  einer  nahern  Besprechung.  Einmal  kat  Lenau  durck 
die  sckwarze  Sckilderung  eines  Landes,  das  er  nickt  kannte 
und  nickt  kennen  wolke,  mekr  denn  irgend  ein  anderer  die 
fast  fiinfzig  Jakre  festgekakenen  Missbegriffe  iiber  Amerika  in 
Deutsckland  verbreiten  kelfen.  AUes  plapperte  ikm  nack,  dass  in 
Amerika  die  Vogel  nickt  sangen,  die  Blumen  nickt  dufteten, 
und  die  Yankees  krasse  Materiaksten  okne  alle  kokere  Ideale 
und  BequemHckkeiten  des  Lebens  seien.  Zum  andern  findet 
man  in  den  Werken  Lenaus  nirgends  eine  reickere  Fund- 
grube,  als  die  auf  Amerika  sick  beziekenden  Briefe,  fiir  eine 
Ckarakterisierung  des  Dickters  und  seiner  Ricktung. 

In  erster  L,inie  kennzeicknen  sie  ikn  als  einen  Ritter  der 
blauen  Blume,  der  in  weiter  Feme  ein  erkabenes  Ziel  suckt, 
das  sick  aber  bald  in  blauen  Dunst  verfiiicktigt,  wenn  er  ikm 
entgegeneilt.  Sckon  am  Anfang  des  Weges  ergreift  ikn  ein 
banges  Aknen,  dass  das  Ziel  nickt  im  wirklicken  Leben 
erreickbar  sei.  Aber  Seknsuckt  darnack  treibt  ikn  dock 
vorwarts  und  lasst  ikn  keine  Ruke  finden.     Sckon  lange  vor 


^  Continued  from  Vol.  I,  Part  2. 


2  Lciinii  in  A))icrika. 

dein  Antritt  der  Reise  glaubte  er,  dass  die  Amerikafahrt  zum 
Ungliick  fiihren  werde.  Er  spriclit  von  einem  Damon  in  sicli, 
einer  Art  Gravitation  nach  dem  Ungliick.  "  Er  habe,"  schreibt 
er  an  Mayer,  "  seiner  Frenndin  Schwab  gesagt,  dass  er  ein 
Narr  sei ;  sie  habe  es  nicht  glanben  woUen.  Merkt  dieser 
Kerl  (Damon)  je,  dass  mir  ein  schoner  Stern  aufgehen  wolle, 
flngs  wirft  er  mir  eine  rauhe  Pelz-  oder  Narrenkappe  iiber  die 
Angen."  '  Als  die  Reise  herannahte,  beang«tigten  ihn  Todes- 
gedanken.  Davon  schreibt  er  an  Mayer  nnter  dem  9.  Juni  1832 
ans  Heidelberg :  "  Ein  Menschenleben  ist  leicht  zerrissen ; 
unser  Korper  ist  ein  falscher  Freund  und  er  thut  lange  gnt, 
anf  einmal  verrat  er  nns  an  den  Tod,  man  weiss  nicht  wie  oder 
warum  ;  doch  hole  den  Lumpen  der  Teufel."  "  Als  die  beschwer- 
den  der  Reisse  begannen,  bebte  er  vor  seinem  Unternehmen 
zuriick.  Schon  ans  Mannheim  schreibt  er  an  Kerner :  "  Ware 
icli  schon  wieder  zuriick  ans  Amerika  und  bei  Dir,  mein 
Herzensfreund."  '^  Anf  der  Seereise  trat  noch  Heimweh  hinzu, 
und  ein  volliger  "  Wandel  der  Sehnsucht "  lasst  sich  in  den 
Gedichten,  die  in  dieser  Zeit  entstanden,  wahrnehmen.  Man 
vergleiche  hierzu  die  Gedichte  A)i  mein  Vaterland^  und 
Der  Schmettciding ;''  im  letzeren  schildert  er  seinen  inneren 
Zustand  unter  dem  Bilde  eines  waghalsigen  Schmetterlings : 

Ihm  war  am  Strand  das  leise  FlUstern 

Von  West  und  Bluthe  nicht  genug, 
Es  treibt  hinaus  ihn,  wiihlich  liistern, 

Zu  wagen  einen  weitern  Flug. 

Kaum  aber  war  voni  Strand  geflogen 

Des  Friihlings  ungeduldt'ges  Kind 
Kam  sausend  hinter  ihm  gezogen 

Und  riss  ihn  fort  der  bose  Wind. 


'  Brief  an  Mayer,  Schurz  I.  171. 

*  Schurz  I,  179. 
='  Schurz  I.  181. 

*  Reklarn'sche  Ausgabe,  p.  94. 

'"  ReklanVsche  Ausgabe,  p.  145. 


G.  A.  Mulfingcr.  3 

Stehts  weiter  fort  von  seines  Lebens 

Zu  friih  verlornem  Heimathsgluck  ; 
Der  schwache  Flattrer  ringt  vergebens 

Nach  dem  verschmahten  Strand  zuriick. 

Als  Amerikamiider  betrat  er  den  amerikanischen  Boden, 
imd  als  ihm  in  Baltimore  der  Larm  des  geschaftigen  Lebens 
in  die  Ohren  drang,  stieg  alles,  was  der  Schwager  Schurz  iiber 
die  eingefleischten  Kramerseelen  der  Yankees  gesagt,'  alles, 
was  er  in  Btiffon  ^  Nachteiliges  iiber  die  nordamerikanische 
Natiir  gelesen  hatte,  wieder  in  ihm  auf  imd  verdunkelte  ihm 
den  Geisteshorizont. 

Die  Urteile,  welche  Lenau  im  Briefe  ans  Baltimore  iiber 
amerikanische  Verhaltnisse  fallt,  characterisieren  ferner  seine 
unumschrankte  Subjektivitat.  Ohne  irgend  einen  objektiven 
Massstab,  ohne  historischen  Blick,  lasst  er  alles  von  der  jewei- 
ligen  Stimmung  oder  beliebigen  Willkiir  abhangen.  Acht 
Tage  nach  der  Ankunft  in  Baltimore  schildert  er  ohne  Zuriick- 
haltung  Land  und  Leute.  '^  Er  hatte  allerdings  die  Menschen 
nur  im  Wirtshanse  gesehen  nnd  iiber  das  Wirtshaus — eine  nie- 
dere  Einwandererspelnnke  ist  es  noch  dazu  gewesen — kam 
er  nicht  hinaus.  Dazu  kam  er  im  Herbst  an,  als  die  Sing- 
vogel  nach  dem  Siiden  gewandert  waren.  In  derselben  Jahres- 
zeit  hatte  er  auch  in  Dentschland  keine  Lerche  singen  horen, 
Wollte  er  im  obscuren  Gasthof  die  Amerikaner  kennen  lernen 
oder  vielleicht  Singvogel  horen  z.  B.  den  Rosebreasted  Grove- 
beak  (dessen  Gesang  dem  der  Nachtigall  ziemlich  nahe  kommt)  ? 
Oder  warum  sollte  es  ihm  anffallen,  dass  eine  artige  Bauersfran 
ihm  Apfelmost  (Cider)  kredenzte  und  Butter  und  Brod  vor- 
setzte  ?  *  Auf  dem  Lande  in  Wiirttemberg  ist  es  doch  auch 
Sitte,  dem  Besuch  mit  Schwarzbrod  und  Most  aufzuwarten,  ehe 
man  ihm  Wein  einschenkt. 

Auch  in  der  Auffassung-  der  amerikanischen  Natur  Hess  sicli 


1  Vgl.  Schurz  I.  164.     Anmerkung. 

^  Brief  an  Emilie  Rheinbeck,  vSchurz  I.  204. 

■'  Schurz  I.  196-199. 

'  vSchurz  I,  198. 


4  Letiaii  m  Amerika. 

Lenau  von  seinen  siibjektiven  Eigenheiten  ganz  und  gar  bestim- 
men.  Die  Iviebe,  die  den  Geist  und  das  Herz  erschliessen 
konnte  und  die  Auffassung  der  Natur  in  all  ihrer  Integritat  und 
Eigenart  moglich  machte,  fehlte  ihm.  Ganz  unsympathisch 
glozte  ihn  der  amerikanische  Urwald  an.^  Einmal  sagte  er : 
"Ja,  die  Heimath  !  Dass  sind  Eindriicke,  die  sich  nie  ver- 
wischen.  So  war  mir's,  wenn  ich  in  die  Walder  von  Amerika 
kam,  doch  nie  das  gleiche  Gefiihl,  es  waren  auch  Eichen,  aber 
es  war  doch  fremd  und  kam  mir  so  unacht  vor."  ^ 

Lenan  weilte  auch  nur  wahrend  des  Winters  und  Herbstes 
in  Amerika  und  hielt  sich  hier  an  keinem  Orte  lange  auf  ;  es 
konnte  sich  deshalb  auch  nicht  eine  Eiebe  der  Gegend  ein- 
schleichen,  wie  es  gewohnlich  der  Fall  war,  wenn  er  irgendwo 
eine  Weile  hauste.^ 

Eine  andere  Ursache,  warum  Lenau  den  Charakter  der  ameri- 
kanischen  Landschaft  als  kalt  und  uninteressant  bezeichnet, 
war  seine  Liebe  zum  Erhabenen,  das  in  ihm  Grausen  und 
Schwermut  erregte.  Wie  die  iibrigen  Romantiker  fand  er  nicht 
an  einer  Gegend,  deren  Schonheit  reizt,  sondern  nur  an  Einer, 
deren  Erhabenheit  riihrt,  Gefallen,  Die  schonen  Hiigelreihen 
am  Ohio  von  fruchtbaren  Eandereien  und  weidenden  Herden 
bedeckt,  die  blumenreichen  Wiesen  mit  schlangelnden  Bachen 
in  Pennsylvanien  durchzog  er  ohne  den  geringsten  Anteil.  Das 
Mohawkthal  und  die  reizenden  Ufer  des  Hudson,  die  an  die 
anmutigen  Rheino-esrenden  erinnern,  liessen  ihn  kalt.  Aller- 
dings  ist  es  richtig,  dass  das  Alleghanygebirge  im  Vergleich 
mit  dem  osterreichischen  Hochgebirge,  an  dem  Lenau  sich 
geschult  hatte,*  durch  Conformation  und  unphantastische 
Formen  absticht.  Aber  auch  manche  liebliche  Thaler  und 
anmutige  Landschaf  ten  werden  selbst  darin  von  alien  Reisenden 
bewundert.  Aber  Lenau,  der  gerne  in  den  Schauern  des  Erhab- 
enen schwelgte,  boten  sie  keine  einzige  Partie,  an  der  er  seine 


'  Schurz  I,  202. 
2  Schurz  II,  193. 
5  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  36. 
^  Schurz  I,  79,  80, 


G.  A.  Miiljinger.  5 

Phantasie  sattigen  konnte.      Ihm  hatten  tiefe  Schluchten  und 
umherliegende  ungeheure  Felsen,  die  einen  groUenden  Geist, 
der    sie    geschleudert    hatte,    ahnen    liessen,    eher    eingeladen, 
Hlitten  zu  bauen.^      Sehr  charakteristiscli   fiir  Lenaus  roman- 
tische  Naturempfindimg  ist  die  Beschreibimg  der  Gefiihle,  die 
ihn  im  ostreichischen  Hochgebirge  auf  dem  Gipfel  des  Trau- 
ensteines  entziickten.     "  Die  Minute,"  schreibt  er  an  Schurz  aus 
Gmunden,  "  die  ich  auf  jenem  Rande  stand,  war  die  allerschon- 
ste    meines    Lebens,    eine    solclie   musst  auch    Du    geniessen. 
Dass    ist    eine     Freude !      Trotzig     hinabzuschauen     in     die 
Schrecken   eines  bodenlosen   Abgrundes   und  den  Tod  herauf- 
greifen  sehen   bis  an  meine  Zehen,  und   stehen   bleiben,   und 
so  lange  der  furchtbar  erhabenen  Natur  ins  Angesicht  sehen, 
bis  es  sicli  erheitert,  gleichsam   erfreut  iiber  die  Unbezwing- 
lichkeit    des    Menschengeistes,    bis    es    mir    schon    wird,    das 
schreckliche :    Bruder,  das  ist  das  Hochste,  was  ich   bis  jetzt 
genossen,  das  ist  ein  siisser  Vorgeschmack  von  den  Freuden  des 
Schlachtfeldes."  '     Ahnlich  erregte  ein  rasender  Sturm  auf  dem 
Meere  Wohlgefallen  und   Grausen   in    ihm    und    brachte    den 
innern  Menschen  zum  trotzigen  Widerstand.-     Aber  grenzen- 
lose  Einsamkeit  schien  ihm  noch  entziickender,  denn  sie  war 
erhaben  auf  eine  schrecklichere  Art'*     Die  phantastisch  oden 
nngarischen  Pussten,  die  sich  meilenweit  ausdehnten,  und  von 
der  Phantasie    mit  gespensterhaften  Gestalten  bevolkert  wur- 
den,  lieferten  den  Hintergrund  zu  den  "  Haidebildern."  *     Des- 
halb  kam  ihm  auch  das  stille  Meer  mit  seiner  tiefen,  grenzen- 
losen   Einsamkeit  grosser  vor,  als  das  bewegte.^     Wenn  alles 
schwieg  und  kein  Liiftchen  sich  regte,  trat  das  "  Ich  "  ganz  in 
sich  zuriick,  und  er  genoss  die  hochste  Form  des  Selbstgefiihls. 
Die  nach  innen  gekehrte,  sich  selbst  empfindende  Seele  spricht : 

^  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  273. 
'  Schurz  I,  116,  117. 

■^  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  196,  197,  und  Faust  {Reclani' sche  Ausgabe),  439-42- 
=*  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  196.     Faust  {Reclani' sche  Ausgabe)  436,  437.     Das  Gedicht 
""  Meeresstille,"  j'?<?<:/aw.  86. 
"  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  84,  85. 
^  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  196. 


6  Lenan  in  Amcrika. 

Niichtlich  Meer,  nun  ist  dein  Schweigen 

So  tief  ungestort, 
Dass  die  Seele  wohl  ihr  eigen 

Traumen  klingen  hort.  ^ 

Lange  blieb  ihm  diese  Erfahriing  auf  dera  Aleere  als  eine  der 
grauenhaftesten  iind  welimiitigsten  seines  Lebens  im  Gedachtnis.^ 

In  Amerika  selbst  liaben  "  der  Urwald  "  und  "  der  Niagara  " 
einen  gewaltigen  Eindruck  auf  ihn  gemacht.  Im  Walmsinn 
beschrieb  er  noch  Emilie  Reinbeck  den  Charakter  des  Urwaldes 
in  Amerika.'^  Im  Gedicht  Der  Urzvald  vermag  man  jedoch  kaum 
den  lokalen  Hintergrund  zu  erraten.  Schurz  meint  sogar,  dass  das 
Bild,  welches  Lenau  vom  nordamerikanischen  Urwald  entwarf, 
an  den  ersten  Urwald  stark  erinnere/  den  er  auf  dem  Sclinee- 
berg  im  osterreichischen  Hochgebirge  sah.  Dass  die  in  Ame- 
rika entstandenen  Gedichte  aber  kaum  die  Eigenart  der  ame- 
rikanischen  Natur  wiedergeben,  liegt  elier  daran,  dass  Lenau 
die  Natur  symboliscli  darstellt.  Und  die  zum  Symbol  geword- 
ene  Naturerscheinung  soil,  nach  seiner  Meinung,  nie  Zweck, 
sondern  nur  Mittel  sein  zur  Darstellung  einer  poetischen  Idee.^ 
Da  die  poetische  Idee  aber  immer  aus  den  Gemiitsregungen  her- 
vorgeht  und  Lenaus  Gemiit  tief  melancholisch  ist,  so  sucht  er 
nur  Symbole,  die  zur  traurigen  Stimmung  seines  Ich  passen. 
Dies  war  namentlich  in  Amerika  der  Fall,  wo  aussere  Ver- 
haltnisse  viel  dazu  beitrugen,  ihm  die  Seele  zu  verdiistern. 
Amerika  schien  ihm  das  Land  des  Untergangs,  der  Westen 
der  Menschheit."  Der  Niagara  wurde  ihm  zum  Symbol  des 
menschlichen  Lebens  im  Allgemeinen  und  seines  eignen  Lebens 
im  Besondern,  das  dem  Untergange  entgegeneilt.  Die  drei 
Indianer  am  Niagara  sind  Reprasentanten  des  gliicklichen 
Naturzustandes,  deren  Untergang  durch  die   Kultur  der  Weis- 


1  Vgl.  Reclani' sche  Ansgabe,  86. 

^  Ludwig  August  Frankl,  Lenau  u.  Sophie  Lmventhal ^  p.  6i. 

*  Schurz  II,  235. 

^  Schurz  I,  89-90. 

^  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  267. 

^  Schurz  I,  206. 


G.  A.  MuIJinger.  7 

sen  durcli  den  herabschiessenden  Katarakt  Im  Hlntergrnnd 
versinnbildlicht  wird.  Wie  bei  den  Spatromantikern,  so  steht 
auch  bei  Lenan  in  dieser  Periode  seines  Lebens  "  das  Naturge- 
heimnis "  ganz  in  dem  Vordergrund.  Die  starren,  herzlosen 
Naturkriifte  und  Natnrgesetze,  die  oline  Mitleid  nnd  Erbarmen 
das  wieder  zerstoren,  was  sie  hervorgebracht  haben,  erfiillen  ihn 
mit  Ensetzen.  Der  erstorbene  Urwald  Amerikas  ist  iliiii  ein 
Bild  der  Verganglichkeit  und  Hinfalligkeit  des  Menschen  nnd 
alles  Irdischen  ;  voll  elegischer  Wehmut  nnd  Traner  rafft  er 
sich  aus  den  diirren  Blattern  auf  undruft :  "  Ist's  auch  der  Miihe 
wert,  noch  einmal  zu  beschreiten  dich,  mein  Pferd?"  Und 
getrost  reitet  er  der  nachsten  Nacht  und — der  geheimnisvoUen 
Todesnacht  entgegen.' 

Auch  in  der  Beurteilung  amerikanischer  Freiheit  nnd  Politik 
legte  Lenan  einen  Masstab  an,  der  fiir  das  Verstandnis  seiner 
Geistesrichtung  hochst  wichtig  ist.  Die  so  oft  ausgespro- 
chene  Ansicht,  dass  Lenau  ein  bedeutender  Vorkampfer  der  Frei- 
heit gewesen  sei,  und  dass  der  F'reiheitsdrang  ihn  nach  Ame- 
rika  getrieben  habe,  beruht  auf  Unkenntnis  seiner  politischen 
Ansichten.  Schon  lange  ehe  er  seinen  Plan  ausfiihrte,  war  der 
Freiheitsrausch  voriiber,  der  ^2S  Qi&^\q\\.\.  Der  Abschied'^  inspi- 
riert  hatte.  Laut  des  letzten  Briefes  vor  der  Abreise  nahm 
er  sich  vor,  mit  demselben  SchifF,  auf  dem  er  hiniiberfuhr, 
zuriickzukehren.^  Kurz  vorher  schrieb  er  an  die  Schwester : 
"  Amerika  ware  kein  Land  fiir  mich,  um  dort  zu  bleiben,  weil  es 
dort   keine  Antons  und  Thereses   gibt,    keine  Schleifers   und 

Trauensteins In    den    Urwaldern    wird  mir    kein   Bar 

etwas  vorlesen  und  die  Affen  werden  fiir  die  Dauer  ein  schlech- 
tes  Publikum  sein  fiir  meine  poetischen  Productionen  ;  auch  wer- 
den sie  mir  nicht  das  Friihstiick  ins  Bett  bringen,  wie  mir's 
meine  liebe  Schwester  gethan."*  Fiir  die  politische  Wirklich- 
keit  hatte  Lenan  so  wenig  Intresse  wie  die  iibrigen  Romanti- 


^  Vgl.  "  Der  Urwald,"  Reclatn' sche  Ausgabe,  So-82. 
^  Reclani' sche  Ausgabe,  115. 
■'  Schurz  I,  189. 
*  Schurz,  I,  166. 


8  Lenau  in  Amerika. 

ker,  Besondere  Freude  machte  es  ihm,  dass  er  durch  die  Reise 
der  Politik  entrinnen  wiirde.  "Auch  wird  mir's  lieb  sein," 
schreibt  er  an  den  Schwager,  "  wenn  icli  eine  Zeitlang  nichts 
von  der Politik  werde  zu  horen  kriegen.  Bruder,  die  Poli- 
tik ist  wirklich  etwas  Ekelhaftes,  zmnal,  wenn  man  ein  ewiges 
Politisiren  hort,  wie  hier  zu  Lande."  ^  Ein  anderes  Mai  sagte 
er :  "Unsere  Zeit  ist  nichts  fiir  Poesie,  nur  Politik  gilt.  Was 
ich  bin  ?  Ich  bin  ein  Stein,  der  auf  einer  oden  Haide  liegt."  - 
Bei  solclier  Gleichgiiltigkeit  fiir  alles  Politische  musste  ih-m  eine 
demokratische  Republik,  wo  jeder  Einzelne  sicli  als  Souveran 
fiililt  und  sich  seine  Angelegenheiten  nach  eigner  Einsicht 
ordnet,  aus  tiefster  Seele  zuwider  gewesen  sein.  In  dem  in 
Amerika  entstandenen  Gedicht  der  Protest  reilit  Lenau  das 
Konigtum,  verlassner  Volker  Vaterhaus  und  Hort,  den  Him- 
melsgaben  an  und  nennt  die  Volksbefreier  "  Schufte,"  die  in  des 
Volkserretters  Ruhmgewand  einhergehen.'^  Da  jeder  auf  sich 
selbst  gestellt,  auch  ohne  Beriichtsichtigung  des  allgemeinen 
Intresses  handelte,  schien  ihm  diese  individuelle  Freiheit  als 
Egoismus.  "  Man  meine  ja  nicht,"  schreibt  er  vor  der  Heim- 
reise,  "  der  Amerikaner  Hebe  sein  Vaterland,  oder  er  habe  ein 
Vaterland.  Jeder  Einzelne  lebt  und  wirkt  in  dem  republika- 
nischen  Verbande,  weil  dadurch  und  so  lange  dadurch  sein  Pri- 
vatbesitz  gesichert  ist.  Was  wir  Vaterland  nennen,  ist  hier 
bios  eine  Vermogensassekuranz."  Lenau  glaubte,  der  Versuch 
Siidcarolinas  sich  von  dem  Staatenbunde  loszusagen,  weil  ihm 
der  ZoUtarif  unbequem  war,  leistete  seiner  Anschauung  damals 
vollkommen  Gewahr,*  Die  Geschichte  dieses  Landes  nach  jener 
Zeit  hat  aber  zur  Geniige  diese  Ansicht  wiederlegt.  Der  Biirg- 
erkrieg  von  1861-65  hat  gezeigt,  dass  der  Amerikaner  doch 
Patriotismus  und  politischen  Idealismus  besass.  Als  Lincoln 
im  Jahre  1861  80,000  F'reiwillige  fiir  den  Krieg  brauchte,  traten 
sofort  300,000  Kaufleute,  Advokaten,  Arzte,  Lehrer,  Studenten 


1  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  162. 

^  Schurz  II,  92. 

^  Reclam'' sche  Aiisgabe,  321. 

*  Schurz  I,  208. 


G.  A.  Miilfingei\  9 

und  Bauern  hervor  und  kampften  fiir  ihre  politisclien  Uberzen- 
giingen,  obgleich  es  jedenfalls  mehr  im  Sinne  eines  bequemen 
Materialismus  gewesen  ware  zii  Hause  zu  bleiben,  statt  das 
Leben  aiifs  Spiel  zu  setzen.  Lenau  sagte  zwar :  "  Der  Ameri- 
kaner  kennt  nichts,  er  sucht  nichts,  als  Geld ;  er  hat  keine  Idee  ; 
folglicli  ist  der  Staat  kein  geistliches  und  sittliches  Institut 
(Vaterland),  sondern  nur  eine  materielle  Convention.  Dass  sich 
der  Amerikaner  fiir  seine  Republic  gesclilagen  hat,  beweist 
nichts  ;  dass  vielleicht  die  meisten  Amerikaner  sich  im  Falle 
eines  feindlichen  Angriffes  aufopfern  wiirden,  beweist  nichts." 
In  dieser  Auffassung  stimmt  er  ganz  mit  seinen  von  leeren 
Humanitatsidealen  beherrschten  Zeitgenossen  iiberein,  die,  wie 
die  Geschichte  Deutschlands  nach  den  Befreiungskriegen  genii- 
gend  lehrt,  die  Freiheit  mehr  in  der  Idee — in  dem  Reiche  der 
Traume — als  in  der  Wirklichkeit  suchten.  Die  wahre  Freiheit  ist 
aber  ja  ein  taglich  errungenes  Gut  und  nicht  ein  festes  Besitztum, 
das  nicht  audi  verloren  gehen  konnte.  Und  gerade  in  dem  Ver- 
kenneu  dieser  Thatsache,  liegt  das  Irrtiimliche  des  Lenau'schen 
Urteils.  Dem  Altmeister  Gcethe,  der  wahrscheinlich  durch  Her- 
zog  Bernhard  von  Weimar's  Beschreibung  angeregt,^  noch  im 
hohen  Alter  der  amerikanischen  Republic  besonderes  Intresse 
zuwandte,  schwebte  wohl  diese  vor,  wenn  er  Faust  sagen  lasst :  ^ 

Eroffn'  ich  Raumevielen  Millionen, 
Nicht  sicher,  doch  thatig  frei  zu  vvohnen: 

Wie  sehr  audi  der  Feind  von  aussen  das  Land  bedroht  und 
unsicher  macht,  so  gelingt  es  doch  einer  kiihn-emsigen  Volker- 
schaft  durch  gemeinsame  Thatigkeit,  die  von  aussen  gewaltsam 
einschiessende  Flut  abzuwahren  und  die  Liicke  zu  verschlies- 
sen.  In  dieser  praktischen  Thatigkeit  entfaltet  sich  die  Kraft 
und  Freiheit : 

Das  ist  der  Weisheit  letzter  Schluss: 

Nur  der  verdient  sich  Freiheit  wie  das  Leben, 

Der  taglich  sie  erobern  muss. 


'  Vgl.  Abonnentenverzeiclinis  in  Herzog  Bernhardt's  Reisebericht,  p.  20. 
^  Vgl.  Gespr'dche  init  Eckermanti,  III,  p.  83. 


lO  Lrfta?i  in  Amcrika. 

Und  so  verbringt,  umrungen  von  Gefahr, 

Hier  Kindheit,  Mann  und  Greis  sein  tuchtigjahr. 

Solch  ein  Gewimmel  mocht'  ich  sehn, 

Auf  freiem  Grund  mit  freiem  Volke  stehn. 

Zum  Augenblicke  diirft'  ich  sagen : 

Vervveile  doch!    Du  bist  so  schon!  * 

Dass  Leiiau  in  Amerika  fiir  die  Freiheit  stocktaub  war,  die  er 

in  der  Feme  als  Prophet  rauschen  liorte,  bezeugt  wie  selir  sei- 

nem  Liberalismus  der  Inhalt  fehlte.     Sein  Freiheitsdrang  war 

nicht  auf  die  politische,  sondern  poetische   Umgestaltung  des 

Lebens  gerichtet ;  es  war  die  der  Zeit  eigene  Freiheit  der  Poesie 

gegeniiber  der  Prosa  der  Wirklichkeit,  wonach  er  sich  sehnte  ; 

es  war  die  unbegrenzte  Leidenschaft,  die  sich  gegen  das  Her- 

kommen  der  Gesellschaft  und  das  Philistertum  des  praktischen 

Lebens  kehrte  und  daraus  alle  Zweckmassigkeit  und  Niitzlichkeit 

verbannen  woUte.      Das  ganze  Leben  sollte  in  Kunst  aufgehen. 

Gegeniiber  Schwab  und  Schiller,  welche  durch  die  x'Vrbeit  den 

Ernst  des  Lebens  erkennen  und  fiihlen  lernten,  bemerkt  Lenau 

im  Brief  an    Mayer :    "  Schwab    sagt    in    einem    sehr   schonen 

Gedichte  '  Das   Leben  ist  Sorg  und  viel   Arbeit ; '  ich  mochte 

sagen:  'Die  Kunst  ist  Serge  und  viel  Arbeit'     Ganz  Unrecht 

hat  Schiller,  wenn  er  gegensatzelnd  sagt :   '  Ernst  ist  das  Leben, 

heiter  ist  die  Kunst ; '  ich  sehe  mehr  Ernst  in  der  Kunst,  als  im 

Leben,  wo  alles  vergeht.  Lust  und  Schmerz,  wahrend  in  jener 

allein  Bestand  ist  und  Ewigkeit." '     Bei  dieser  AufFassung  war 

ihm  die  Arbeit,  welche  dem  Leben  Zweck  und  Ziel   gibt,  wie 

sie  ihm  in   Amerika  entgegentrat,  hochst  ungemiitlich.      Die 

Menschen,  welche  im  Kampf  mit  der  Natur  eine  sich  selbst 

bestimmende    und    unabhangige    Personlichkeit   entwickelten, 

hatten  fiir  ihn,  weil  bei  ihnen  das  Gefiihlsleben  zu  sehr  unter- 

driickt  schien,  etwas  Unheimliches  und  Furchtbares.    Am  meis- 

ten  bedauerte  er  aber,  dass  die  deutschen  Einwanderer  in  der 

kiihlen    Atmosphare    der    Freiheit  und   Gleichheit   ihr    Heim- 

weh  so  bald  verloren.     Die  Ansicht,  welche  er  von  der  Bedeut- 


^  G.  von  Loeper.   Goethe's  Faust.    Zweiter  Theil  (Berlin,  1879),  pp.  295,  296. 
^  Schurz  I,  159. 


G.  A.  Mnlfinger.  ii 

img-  der  Kiinst  und  des  genialen  Individnnms  hatte,  Hess  ihn 
keinen  Gefallen  finden  an  der  gesellschaftlichen  Gleichheit, 
nach  welcher  sich  die  armen,  unterdriickten  Einwanderer  wohl 
mehr  sehnten,  als  nach  der  Verbesserung  ihrer  okonomischen 
Lage.  Das  Selbstgefiihl,  welches  sich  beim  armsten  Tagelohner 
in  Amerika  aiisserte,  erfiillte  ihn,  der  immer  an  deni  AUtags- 
menschen  das  Gemeine  zu  wittern  pflegte,  mit  der  Gesinnimg, 
der  Heine  in  dem  Verse  vom  amerikanischen  Freiheitsfiegel 
Ausdriick  verliehen  hat.  Frankl  erzahlt,  wie  Lenau  bei  einer 
Reise,  die  er  mit  ihm  machte,  sich  absohit  weigerte,  mit  dem 
Volk  im  Omnibus  zu  fahren.  "  Man  muss,"  sagte  er,  "  dem 
Volke  zeigen,  dass  man  lieber  zu  Fusse  allein  geht,  als  mit  ihm.* 
Es  hatte  auch  diese  Auffassung  wohl  daran  Schuld,  dass  er,  wie 
Briinnert,  sein  deutscher  Nachbar,  Herrn  H.  A.  Rattermann 
mitteilte,  bei  einem  Amerikaner,  mit  dem  er  sich  kaum  verstan- 
digen  konnte,  wohnte  iind  Verkehr  mit  den  in  der  Nachbar- 
schaft  angesiedelten  Deutschen  durchaus  mied.  Weil  er  dem 
Volksintresse  und  den  praktischen  Aufgaben  und  Zwecken  der 
Menschheit  so  fern  stand,  konnte  er  auch  das  wahre  Wesen  der 
politischen  Freiheit  nicht  erkennen.  Ganz  berechtigt  ist  aller- 
dings  Lenaus  Urteil,  wenn  er  nach  der  Heimkehr  aus  Amerika 
sich  folgendermassen  der  Grafin  Maria  von  Wiirttemberg  gegen- 
iiber  iiber  das  Wesen  der  personlichen  Freiheit  aussert.  "  Mein 
Aufenthalt  in  der  neuen  Welt  hat  mich  von  der  Chimare  von  Frei- 
heit und  Unabhangikeit,  fiir  die  ich  mit  jugendlicher  Begeister- 
ung  schwarmte,  geheilt.  Ich  habe  mich  iiberzeugt,  dass  die 
wahre  Freiheit  nur  in  unserer  eigenen  Brust,  in  unserem  WoUen 
und  Denken,  Fiihlen  und  Handeln  ruht.""  Aber  Lenau  kam 
auch  innerlich  nie  zur  Freiheit,  weil  sein  Leben  nicht  von 
einer  Idee,  die  mit  der  Wirklichkeit  in  Einklang  stand,  getragen 
wurde.  Als  ein  Gefiihlsmench,  ganz  vom  Tyrann  der  Leiden- 
schaft  beherrscht,  stand  er  den  jeweiligen  ausseren  Eindriicken 
wehrlos  gegeniiber  und  konnte  nie  auf  dem  sicheren  Boden 
einer   festen    Lebensanschauung   einen    Ruhepunkt  gewinnen. 

^  Frankl,  Zur  Biographic  Nikolaus  Lenaus,  p.  104. 
^  Schurz,  I,  224. 


12  Lenaii  in  Amcrika. 

Wie  schmerzlich  er  selbst  dieses  fiihlte,  geht  aiis  den  Worten 
hervor,  die  er  ausserte,  als  die  Umnachtung  seines  Geistes  bereits 
herein  gebrochen  war :  "  Ein  niitzlicher,  guter  Gedanke  zum 
Wolile  der  Menschheit  hat  mehr  Wert,  als  alle  meine  Werke."  ' 
Ein  anderes  Mai  sprach  er  die  bezeichnenden  Worte  iiber  sein 
Verhaltnis  als  Dichter  zum  Menschen  aus:  "Was  ich  schuf 
befreite  mich  nicht ;  ich  war  der  Sklave  meiner  Gedanken. 
Wie  Konig  Richard  hatte  ich  ausrufen  mogen  :  eine  That,  nur 
eine  That,  ein  Konigreich  fiir  eine  That — oder  vielmehr  sie 
ware  mein  Konigreich  geworden.  Dichter !  Dichter,  wenn  nur 
das  Dichten  nicht  so  verdichtete,  wenn  nur  nicht  Alles  zu  einem 
StofFe,  zu  einem  Stiick  Kohle  wiirde,  die  eine  Flamme  speisen, 
die  uns  dann  ausbrennt." 

EINFLUSS   DER   REISE. 

Lenau  schrieb  einmal  an  Sophie  Lowenthal :  "  Meine  Hy- 
pochondrie  regt  sich  wieder ;  ich  muss  bald  reisen.  Hinter 
dem  Eilwagen  wird  dieser  Hund  zuriickbleiben,  und  stellt  er 
sich  in  Wien  wieder  ein,  so  muss  ihn  Rosalie  in  die  Flucht 
lachen." "  Dieser  Reisedrang,  der  nichts  anders  als  Flucht  vor 
dem  Triibsinn  war,  fiihlte  Lenau  als  ein  Bediirfnis  zu  seiner 
Selbsterhaltung.-^  Auch  Schurz  bestatigt,  dass  das  Reisen  auf 
den  Dichter  gewohnlich  wolthuend  gewirkt  habe.  Dies  gilt 
auch  von  der  Amerikafahrt.  Die  Zeit  in  Heidelberg  vor  der 
Reise  blieb  ihm  lange  in  Erinnerung  als  die  Schlimmste  seines 
Lebens.  In  spateren  Tagen,  wenn  die  zerstorende  Heftigkeit 
seiner  Seele  zunahm,  trat  ihm  oft  das  Schreckbild  dieser  Zeit 
vor  die  Seele  und  streckte  die  gespenstischen  Arme  nach  ihm 
aus/  Es  war  sicherlich  heilsam  fiir  ihn,  dass  er  die  bestandigen 
Griibeleien  und  krankhafte  Selbstbespiegelung,  welche  zur  ge- 
fahrlichsten  Gemiitskrise  fiihrten,  die  er  je  vor  dem  endlichen 


'  Emilie  von  Reinbeck's  Aufzeidinungen  uber  Lenaus  Erkrankimg,  1844-46. 
Hrsg.  von  Anton  Schlosser,  p.  222.    Vgl.  auch  Schurz  II,  233. 
^  Schurz  I,  319. 
^  Schurz  I,  2S3. 
^  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  362  und  II,  341. 


G.  A.  Miilfiiiger.  13 

Anbruch  des  Wahnsinns  dnrclimaclite,  auf  langere  Zeit  durch 
eine  Reise  unterbrach,  die  ihn  oft  gewaltsam  aiis  seinem  Traum 
aufschreckte  und  seinen  Sinn  auf  das  gesunde,  materielle  Leben 
lenkte. 

Wie  wolthuend  auch  die  zerstreuende  Wirkung  der  Reiseer- 
lebnisse  und  der  Contakt  mit  praktischen  Menschen  auf  das 
Gemiitsleben  Lenaus  waren,  so  erwuchsen  doch  auch  daraus 
nacliteilige  Folgen.  Den  Skorbut  trug  er  von  der  Seereise 
davon,  und  durch  das  unverniinftige  "  Herumrasen"  in  einem 
iiberaus  kalten  Winter  durch  den  frostigen  Urwald  zog  er 
sich  die  Gicht  zu.  Nach  seiner  Heimreise  trat  ein  durch 
viele  Monate  anhaltendes  Seitenstechen  als  Complication  hinzu, 
das  bei  den  geringsten  Anstrengungen  wieder  auftrat  und  ihm 
manche  schlaflose  Nachte  verursachte/  Als  er  zuriickkam, 
schien  er  alien  gealtert,  das  Auge  hatte  den  Glanz  verloren  und 
das  Gesicht  war  von  tiefen  Furchen  durchzogen.^  Nach  drei 
Monaten  erholte  er  sich  jedoch  und  meldet  an  den  Schwager : 
"  Was  meine  Gesundheit  betrifft — ich  bin  jetzt  wohl  und  kraftig  ; 
ich  fiihle  mich  auch  geistig  aufrecht  und  unternehmend.  Das 
Klagen  hab  ich  aufgegeben,  aber  das  Schimpfen  und  Fluchen 
nicht,  wie  Du  schon  horen  wirst.  Nach  meiner  Ankunft  aus 
Amerika  war  ich  sehr  geschwacht,  und  bin  auch  bald  darauf  an 
meinem  rheumatischen  Uebel  wieder  erkrankt."^  Nach  der 
Ankunft  beim  Schwager  in  Wien  spricht  er  in  einem  noch 
gehobeneren  Tone  von  seinem  korperlichen  und  geistigen 
Befinden  :  "  Ich  bin  ganz  gesund.  Die  Leute  wundern  sich  iiber 
mein  gutes  Aussehen.  Einige  sagen  sogar,  ich  sei  gewachsen  ! ! 
Meine  Schwester  war  sogar  so  narrisch,  es  zu  glauben.  Mag 
sein,  dass  ich  mich  aufrechter  halte  ;  wenigstens  in  moralischer 
Bedeutung  mochte  dies  wahr  sein.  Ich  habe  viel  mehr  Gleicli- 
mut  und  Heiterkeit  als  vordem  ;  das  scheint  auch  auf  mein 
korporliches    Befinden    wohlthatig   zu    reagieren."  ^     Aber  das 

^  Vgl.  Brief  an  Dr.  Becker,  Schurz  I,  225,  mit  Brief  an  Kerner,  Schurz  I, 
no. 

^  Briefe  an  einen  Freund,  p.  220 ;  vgl.  Schurz  I,  134. 
^  Schurz  I,  130. 
■•  Schurz  I,  134. 


14  Lciian  in  A})icrika. 

Ubel  sass  zu  tief,  um  diirch  eine  Reise  von  zehn  Monateii 
gehoben  zu  werdeii.  Schon  im  folgenden  Jahr  klagt  er  wieder 
iiber  immer  haiifiger  auftretende  heftige  Genuitsbewegungen, 
und  im  Brief  an  Emelie  Reinbeck  unterm  5.  Oktober  1834 
schreibt  er  diesbeziiglich  :  "  Wenn  ich  nur  gesund  ware  an  Leib 
und  Seele  !  Es  muss  etwas  in  mir  gebrochen  und  gerissen  sein, 
das  niclit  melir  heilen  kann.  Glauben  Sie  mir,  es  ist  nicht  fade 
Phantasterei,  es  ist  Krankheit."  ^ 

Am  unlieilbringendsten  erwies  sicli  aber  vor  allem  die 
amerikanische  Landspekulation  ;  die  daraus  folgenden  pekunia- 
ren  Verluste  mussten  ihn  nur  in  der  triiben  Ansicht  bestarken, 
dass  er  zum  Ungliick  geboren  sei. 

Obwohl  die  aus  Amerika  heimgebrachten  poetischen  Schatze 
weit  liinter  den  iiberspannten  Erwartungen,  welche  Lenau  vor 
der  Abreise  hegte,  zuriickblieben,  so  ist  doch  der  kiinstlerisch  bil- 
dende  Einfluss  und  das  positive  Ergebnis  an  Gedichten  bedeu- 
tender,  als  es  gewohnlich  veranschlagt  wird.  Lenau  rechnete 
nachher  das  Meer,  das  er  auf  der  Reise  Gelegenheit  hatte  griind- 
lich  kennen  zu  lernen,  unter  die  vier  Hauptmomente,  die  ihn 
als  Dichter  gebildet  haben.'  Etwa  elf  Prozent  der  kleineren 
Gedichte  nebst  einem  Drittel  des  Faust  und  einer  Halfte  der 
Marionetten  entstanden  entweder  auf  der  Amerikafahrt  oder 
beziehen  sich  auf  dieselbe. 

Auch  als  Mensch  ist  ihm  durch  die  Reise  der  Unabhangigkeits- 
sinn  entwickelt  und  der  Weltblick  durch  Beriihrung  mit  allerlei 
Menschen  und  durch  mannigfaltige  Erfahrungen  erweitert 
word  en. 

Die  vor  der  Abreise  entstandenen  Gedichte,  welche  durch  die 
Amerikaidee  inspiriert  wurden,  sind :  Der  Abschied  und  ein 
Teil  vom  Maskenball.  Auf  der  Reise  nach  Amsterdam : 
An/  eine  HoUdndische  Landschaft ;  Avi  Rhein  ;  An  den  Wind. 
Wahrend  der  tjberfahrt  nach  Amerika  und  in  Baltimore :  Die 
Seejiingfranen  ;  die  beideu  Gedichte  mit  der  tjberschrift :  Meer- 
esstille ;  An  mein  Vaterland ;  Wanderer  nnd  Wind ;  Die 
Marionetten. 


1  Schurz  I,  178. 

^  Brief  ati  Sophie  Lozventhal ,  Schurz  II,  16. 


G,  A.  Mulfinger.  15 

Obwohl  Lenau  walirend  des  Aufenthaltes  in  Aiiierika  sicli 
weniger  mit  ausseren  Gegenstaiiden,  als  mit  sich  selbst  beschaf- 
tigte,  so  trat  dieses  docli  seiner  Produktion  nicbt  hemmend  in 
den  Weg ;  bei  gesteigerter  Snbjektivitat  mnsste  ein  Dichter,  der 
ganz  von  seinem  eignen  Blute  lebte,  noch  mehr  prodnzieren,  als 
sonst.  Der  Aufenthalt  in  Economy  beweisst  thatsachlich,  dass 
dies  der  Fall  war.  Im  Herbst  und  Winter  entstanden  :  Die  Rose 
der  Erinneriing  ;  Waldcstrost ;  Der  Unentberliche  ;  Ahasver  ; 
Die  Heidelberger  Riiine ;  Die  Schbne  Senitin ;  Der  Postilion. 
Im  Friihjahr  :  Primula  veris  ;  wahrscheinlich  aiich  Der  Protest ; 
Des  Teufels  Lied  vom  Aristokraten  ;  Der  Heimatsbruder^  und 
manche  andere  polemische  Gedichte  im  Nachlass. 

Auf  dem  Weg  nach  New  York  :  An  Einem  Baimi ;  in  New 
York  :  Die  Stnrmesinythe. 

Auf  der  Heimreise :  Der  Skiffsjnnge.  Aus  den  Amerika 
erlebnissen  gingen  schliesslich  noch  folgende  Gedichte  hervor : 
Der  Indianerziig  ;  Die  drei  Indianer  ;  Seemorgen  ;  Der  Niag- 
ara; Verschiedene  Deutung :  Der  Urwald ;  Das  Blockhaus ; 
Wnnsch  ;  Fri'ihlingsod ;  Herbst. 

Dazu  kommen  noch  die  folgenden  Scenen  im  Faust,  die  wahr- 
scheinlich in  Amerika  entstanden:'  Der  Abendgzng ;  Die 
Riese ;  Der  Trattm  Der  Stnrm ;  und  Einiges  in  Faicsts  Tod. 
Auf  den  Abschied  und  die  Erlebnisse  in  dem  Matrosenschenken 
auf  der  Hin-  und  Herreise  beziehen  sich  die  Scenen  Der 
Abschied  und  Gorg.^^ 

Schurz's  Bemerkung,  dass  die  Reiseeindriicke,  ja  nicht  einmal 
das  Meer,  in  den  spateren  Jahren  in  seinen  Gedichten  nachhal- 
len,  gilt  namentlich  den  grosseren  lyrisch-epischen  Gedichten. 
In  Savonarola  kommt  das  Wort  "Meer"  nur  drei  Mai  vor;  in 
den  Albigensern  nur  zwei  Mai ;  in  Do7i  Jnan  das  Meer,  die  hohe 
See  und  der  Ocean  je  ein  Mai  ;  in  Mischka  an  der  ATarosch  ein 
Mai ;  in  Johanjtes  Ziska  das  Meer  drei  Mai,  der  Ocean  zwei 
Mai ;  in  Clara  Hebert  kommen  in  den  Scenen  "  Der  selige 
Abend"  und  "  Die  Sehnsucht,"  mehrere  Anspielungen  auf  Mat- 
rosen,  Seeleben  und  das  sturmbewegte  und  stille  Meer  vor. 


'  Vgl.  Schurz  I,  196,  III. 


1 6  Lcnait  in  Amcrika. 

In  den  kleineren  Gedichten  wird  das  Seeleben  oft  zu  Rede- 
iiguren  verwandt.  So  das  Meer  :  {a)  Waldlieder  vii ; '  Der  f  ronime 
Pilger  f  Am  Sarge  eines  Schwermiithigen  ;  '^  Beethovens  Biiste  ;  * 
Naturbehagen ;  *  Zweierlei  Vogel,  2  Mai;"  Prolog,*  2  Mai*/ 
Schlaflose  Naclit ;  *  An  die  Biologen,  2  Mai ;  ^  Einem  Greis, 
3  Mai ;  ^"^  Wimsch,  3  Mai ;  '^  Neid  der  Sehnsucht ;  '^  Zwei  Polen, 
3  Mai ;  ^^  Zweifel  und  Rulie ;  '*  Scheiden  ;  '^  Fragmente ;  ^"^  Wan- 
del  der  Sehnsucht ;  '^  Scheideblick,  2  Mal.'^ 

Bei  weitem  seltener  sind  die  Anspielungen  an  den  Urwald, 
den  Katarakt,  Amerika  und  die  Reise :  {b)  Vgl.  Savonarola 
(Mariano,  Strophe  46) ;  ^  Beethovens  Biiste  (letzte  Strophe) ;  ^ 
Zeiger  ;  ^  Heimathklang ;  *  An  die  Entfernte  ;  ^  Wunsch  ; "  Frag- 
mente (Der  Jiingling) ;  ^  Wunsch;^  Wandel  der  Sehnsucht.^ 

Auf  Lenaus  Sprache  konnte  der  kurze  Aufenthalt  in  Ame- 
rika, zumal  er  mit  deutschen  Amerikanern  wenig  verkehrte,  kei- 
nen  bedeutenden  Einfluss  ausiiben.  Nur  im  Pachtvertrag,^  der 
wahrscheinlich  aus  Lenaus  Feder  herriihrt,  kommen  einige  ver- 
deutschte  englische  Worter  vor,  wie  sie  sich  hierzulande  bei 
den  Deutschen  einzuschleichen  pflegen.  Dazu  gehoren :  Vier- 
telsection,  Achtelsection,  Acres  (im  Sinne  von  Morgen),  geklart 
(abgeholzt),  eingefenzt  (umzaunt),  Blockhaus. 

Herr  H.  A.  Rattermanns  Vermutung,  dass  Lenau  durch  seine 
Gedichte  die  falsche  Aussprache  des  Niagara — Niaga'ra,  statt 
Niag'ara — in  Deutschland  verbreitet  habe,  hat  keinen  Grund ; 
diese  Aussprache  kommt  schon  in  dem  Gedicht  vor,  das  Auers- 
perg  einem  auswandernden  Freunde  (Lenau)  vor  dessen  Reise 
nach  Amerika  widmete.^ 

George  A.  Mulfinger. 

Chicago,  January,  1897, 


^  Schurz  I,  210. 

(<z)  Reclam' sche  Ausgabe  :  ^  p.  249  ;  ^p.  239  ;  ^  p.  237  ;  *  p.  235  ;  ^  p.  241  ;  "p. 
227  ,  '  p.  207  ;  »  p.  191 ;  9  p.  183  ;  i"  p.  183  ;  "  p.  171  ;  '■  P-  170  ;  "  pp.  151,  152  ; 
1*  p.  134  ;  1^  p.  36  ;  i«  p.  125  ;  "  p.  15  ;  '»  p.  131. 

*  Auch  in  Prolog  xuva.  J ubelfeste  des  Erzherzogs  Karl,  2  Mai,  pp.  337,  340. 

(V)  Reclanf  sche  Ausgabe:  ^  p.  493  ;  '^  p.  236  ;  ^  p.  239  ;  ^  p.  185  ;  ^  p.  170  ;  ''  p_ 
169;  '  p.  125;  8  p.  171  ;  «p.  15. 

^  C.  f.  Max  Koch,  Einleitung  zur  Kilrschner' schen  Ausgabe  der  Gedichte 
Lenaus y  p.  11. 


THE   VERB   IN   THOMAS   MURNER. 


Among  the  many  men  who,  by  their  literary  activity,  have 
made  the  sixteenth  century  one  of  the  most  important  epochs 
in  the  religious  history  of  Germany,  perhaps  the  most  striking 
in  his  originality,  and  doubtless  the  most  picturesque  figure 
engaged  in  the  great  religious  controversy,  is  the  bitter  satiri- 
cal monk,  Thomas  Murner — the  most  dangerous  (certainly  the 
most  venomous)  of  all  the  enemies  of  the  great  reformer.  But 
not  only  for  the  student  of  literature  or  of  theology  are  his 
writings  of  interest  and  importance.  For  the  student  of  phi- 
lology, as  well,  these  products  of  his  fertile  brain  and  untiring 
zeal  form  a  rich  mine,  which,  if  rightly  explored,  may  be  made 
to  yield  important  contributions  to  the  study  of  that  most  inter- 
esting— perhaps  because  most  puzzling — of  all  epochs  in  the 
history  of  the  German  language  :  the  transition-period  between 
Middle  High  German  and  New  High  German. 

If  Luther  represents  the  German  of  Midland  Germany,  and 
Hans  Sachs  that  of  Franconia  largely  influenced  by  Bavarian 
forms,  we  find  in  Murner  a  representative  of  the  upper  Alemanic 
dialect  mixed  with  strong  traces  of  the  Alsatian.'  He,  there- 
fore, represents  an  entirely  different  part  of  Germany,  and, 
without  him,  our  picture  of  the  German  dialects  in  the  six- 
teenth century  would  be  incomplete.  Nor  does  he,  as  we  might 
at  first  sight  assume  from  his  position  as  monk  and  doctor  of 
theology  and  "  beider  rechte,"  represent  the  language  of  the 
scholarly  class  alone.  Like  his  two  great  contemporaries — 
Luther,  the  peasant's  son,  and  Hans  Sachs,  the  shoemaker-poet 
of  Nuremberg — he  also  was  a  genuine  son  of  the  people,  and  in 
his  writings  reflects  fully  as  well — in  some  respects  better  than 
Luther  and  Sachs — the  language  of  this  class.     His  fondness  for 


'  Cf.  Lauchert,  Stiidien  zu  Tho^nas  Murner,  Alemannia,  xviii,  139. 


i8  The  Verb  hi   T/iovias  Maimer. 

what  the  Germans  so  aptly  term  "  Kraftausdriicke "  and  the 
bitterness  of  his  hatred  for  the  adversaries  of  the  mother 
church  led  him  into  using  epithets  and  expressions  which  at 
times  must  have  been  startling,  even  to  the  people  of  that  out- 
spoken age. 

Although  born  but  a  few  years  before  Luther  and  Hans 
Sachs,  Murner's  language  represents  in  one  sense  an  older 
period  ;  indeed,  the  dialect  of  his  native  province,  even  to-day, 
has  taken  but  little  part  in  the  phonological  changes  that  char- 
acterize New  High  German  as  distinguished  from  Middle  High 
German.  While  Luther,  following  the  example  of  the  Saxon 
chancellery,  as  he  expressly  says,  already  had  adopted  the  New 
High  German  diphthongization  of  the  Middle  High  German 
long  vowels,  Murner  still  retained  the  earlier  pronunciation,  as 
many  rhymes  prove  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt.  A  cursory 
glance  at  his  writings,  however,  suffices  to  convince  us  that  we 
have  not  here  to  do  with  a  uniform,  consistent  dialect,  but  with 
a  curious  mixture  resulting  from  the  imperfect  grafting  of  the 
"  gemein  Deutsch  "  upon  the  stock  of  his  native  dialect.  Strass- 
burg,  as  one  of  the  great  printing  centres  of  the  empire,  soon 
felt  the  need  of  conforming  its  language  to  the  new  norm, 
which  alone  assured  to  a  book  a  wide  distribution.  Although 
somewhat  more  conservative  in  this  respect  than  the  towns  of 
Nuremberg  and  Augsburg,  where,  as  early  as  the  last  quarter  of 
the  fifteenth  century,  many  books  had  been  printed  in  the 
"  Gemeinsprache,"  still  the  opening  years  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury find  it  already  introduced  into  Strassburg,  and,  by  the  end 
of  the  second  decade,  with  the  dawning  of  the  Reformation,  its 
victory  is  complete.^  That  we  have,  therefore,  to  take  into 
account  the  influence  of  the  new  norm  in  treating  of  Murner's 
language  is  self-evident  when  we  remember  that,  as  soon  as  the 
manuscript  left  the  hands  of  the  author,  it  fell  a  prey  to  the 
caprices  of  the  all-powerful  compositor.^  Luther  himself  com- 
plains of   this    again   and  again,  and  Geiler  von    Keisersberg 

^  Socin,  Schriftsprachc  und  Dialekte  iin  Deuischcn,  p.  182. 

■^  Cf.  Von  Bahder,  Grtindlagen  des  uhd.  Lautsystenis.     Strassburg,  1S90,  \  3. 


•  Daniel  B.  Shumway.  19 

remarked  that  one  did  not  recognise  his  own  book  on  receiving 
it  back  from  the  printer.^  And,  in  fact,  Murner's  writings  give 
us  a  means  of  studying  the  gradual  triumph  of  the  new  norm 
over  the  old,  the  earlier  prints  being  much  freer  than  the  later 
ones  from  the  new  diphthongs.  As  the  discussion  of  this,  espe- 
cially of  the  new  diphthong  ei^  belongs  to  the  verbs  of  the  first 
Ablaut  series,  I  shall  treat  it  in  its  appropriate  paragraph  more 
fully.  As  to  the  new  diphthongs  au  and  eii^  they  are  found  in 
the  earlier  prints  in  but  a  few  sporadic  instances.  This  is  espe- 
cially true  of  the  NarrenbcschivdriLiig^  published  in  151 2,  as 
also  of  the  Geiichmatt^  which,  although  written  somewhat  later, 
was  printed  at  Basel,  where,  because  of  its  geographical  posi- 
tion and  less  intimate  connection  with  the  empire,  the  adoption 
of  the  "gemein  Deutsch  "  occurred  later  than  in  Strassburg. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  in  this  article  to  enter  into  a  detailed 
description  of  Murner's  language.  As  far  as  the  phonology  is 
concerned,  that  has  been  done  in  great  detail  by  Franz  Stirius.^ 
I  purpose,  rather,  as  the  title  itself  indicates,  to  give  the  results 
of  some  studies  with  respect  to  Murner's  use  of  the  verb  from  a 
formal  rather  than  from  a  syntactical  point  of  view.  I  shall 
not  attempt  to  give  an  exhaustive  list  of  the  forms  occurring, 
but  rather  to  characterize  each  Ablaut  class  as  a  whole,  adding 
then  peculiarities  and  unusual  occurrences  of  the  individual 
verbs.  With  respect  to  those  of  the  weak  conjugation,  the 
treatment  will  be  essentially  the  same,  no  attempt,  however, 
being  made  to  separate  them  into  historical  classes. 

Lauchert  ^  has  attempted  to  characterize  briefly  Murner's  lan- 
guage and  to  give  the  forms  of  declension  and  conjugation.  As 
far  as  the  phonology  is  concerned,  he  has  succeeded  in  giving  a 
fair  picture  of  the  dialect ;  but  in  his  treatment  of  the  acci- 
dence, especially  of  the  verb,  the  m.ethod  is  too  condensed  to 
present   more    than  a  mere    outline  of    the   endings.     I    shall 


'  Pietsch,  Martin  Luther  und  die  nhd.  Schriftsprachc,  s.  loi. 
^  Die  Sprache  Thomas  Murners.     Diss.  Halle,  1891. 

*  Studien  zu   Thomas  Miirner.  Alemannia,  vol.  xviii,  pp.   139-173,  and  vol. 
xix,  pp.  1-18. 


20  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

endeavor,  therefore,  in  this  study  to  enlarge  upon  this  picture, 
filling  in  the  details  and  accompanying  them  with  the  neces- 
sar>^  explanations,  which  are  entirely  lacking  in  Lauchert's 
sketch,  I  shall  likewise,  as  indicated  above,  call  attention  to 
peculiarities  which  he  has  not  mentioned,  and  correct,  when 
necessary,  false  impressions  which  the  brevity  of  his  treatment 
produces  upon  the  reader — forcing,  as  it  does,  the  author  to  gen- 
eralize in  a  way  which  the  facts  often  do  not  warrant. 

In  collecting  the  materials  for  this  study,  I  have  made  use  of 
the  following  works  of  Murner,  which,  with  the  abbreviations 
used  in  quoting,  are  here  subjoined  : 

N.:  Die  Narrenbeschivorung.  Printed  in  Strassburg,  1512. 
Balke's  edition  in  Kiirschner's  Deutsche  National-Litteratur^ 
Vol.  XVII. 

S.  Z.:  Der  Schelmen  Zunft.  Printed  in  Frankfort,  151 2. 
Balke's  edition  as  above. 

L.  N.:  Von  de?n  grossen  Lutherischen  Narren.  Printed  in 
Strassburg,  1522.     Balke's  edition  as  above. 

B,:  Ei7i  andechtig  geistliche  Badenfart.  Printed  in  Strass- 
burg, 1513.  Martin's  edition,  Beitrdge  zur  Landeskunde  von 
Elsass-Lothringen^  Heft  II,  1887. 

]\I.:  Die  Miiller  von  Schwyiidelszheim.  Printed  in  Strassburg, 
151 5.     Albrecht's  edition,  Strassburger  Studien^  II,  1884. 

G.:  Die  Geuchmat.  Printed  in  Basel,  15 19.  Reprint  by 
Wilhelm  Uhl,  Leipzig,  1896. 

Gu.:  Ulrich  von  Hiitten^  eines  teiitschen  Ritters  von  der  lunn- 
derbarlichen  artzeney  des  holtz  Guaiacum  genant.  Printed  in 
Strassburg,  15 19.  According  to  reprint  in  Booking's  edition 
of  Hutten,  Vol.  V. 

K.  V.  E.:  Ob  der  Kiinig  usz  Engelland^  ein  Winger  sey  oder 
der  Luther.  Strassburg,  1522.  According  to  reprint  in  Schei- 
ble's  Kloster,  Vol.  IV. 

Kal.:  Der  Lutherischen  Evangelischen  Kirchendieb-  und  Ket- 
serkalefider.  Printed  1527.  According  to  reprint  in  Scheible's 
Kloster^  Vol.  X,  pp.  201-215. 

B.  S.:  Antwurt  und  Klag  mil  Etitschuldigung  Doctor  Mur- 


Daniel  B.  SJuunivay,  2i 

7ier''s  wider  Briider  Michel  Stifel.  Printed  1522.  According  to 
the  reprint  given  by  Voss,  Publications  of  the  Mod.  Lang.  Asso. 
of  America.^  Vol.  XI,  No.  3,  pp.  336-348. 

A  letter  of  Th.  Murner,  An  der  Ratder  Stadt  Frankfurt  a.  M. 
Published  by  M.  Spanier,  Zeitschrift  f.  deutsche  Phil.^  B.  26,  s. 

Other  writings  of  Murner,  consisting  mainly  of  minor  prints, 
were  unfortunately  not  accessible  to  me. 

GENERAIv   REMARKS   ON   THE    CONJUGATION. 

The  1st  pers.  sing,  pres.,  as  a  rule,  occurs,  as  Lauchert  gives 
it,  without  the  final  e  of  the  ending.  This  is  the  same,  whether 
the  pronoun  precedes  or  follows  its  verb,  or  whether  the  latter 
stands  before  a  vowel  or  not,  as  the  following  instances  show  : 

Den  ichs  nit  find  in  aller  vernunft,  S.  Z.  518. 

Jezt  kum  ich,  N.  1269. 

Des  sitz  ich  und  schrieb  der  schelmen  namen  an,  S.  Z.  14. 

Ich  schmach  und  riich  und  grif  und  last,  N.  8577. 

By  the  side  of  these  forms,  however,  are  found  longer  ones 
with  the  retention  of  the  e  of  the  ending.  They  are  not  fre- 
quent, but  still  are  met  with  in  sufficient  numbers  to  make 
them  worthy  of  mention. 

The  majority  of  cases  occurring  are  most  probably  due  to  the 
printer,  as  they  are  not  necessary  to  the  metre,  and  must  in  fact 
be  omitted  if  the  line  is  to  read  smoothly.  A  very  few,  how- 
ever, are  necessary  to  the  rhythm  of  the  line,  and  must,  there- 
fore, have  been  written  by  the  author.     They  occur  as  follows  : 

Ich  hoffe,  gott  werd  iich  erlosen,  N.  1287. 
Und  ich  mit  wahrheit  sage  das,  L.  N.  2039. 
Darumb  ich  inen  beichte  nicht,  L.  N.  4377. 
UfF  das  ich  noch  erfiille  das,  G.  252. 

Some  cases  are  the  subj.  of  strong  verbs  : 

Dass  ich  dich  sehe  nimermer!  L.  N.  4279. 
Das  ich  in  helffe  also  gleich,  B.  xix.  57. 


33  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

Still  others  are  found  at  the  end  of  the  line,  forming  a  femi- 
nine rhyme  : 

Das  ich  iich  alle  wis  beschwere  (:  here),  N.  3713;  2312. 
Und  ichs  bei  im  dort  nimmer  sehe  (:  geschehe)  B.  xix.  74. 
Darumb  ich  in  ein  bad  begere  (:  were),  B.  N.  27. 
Mein   red  ich   ietzunt  wider  kere   (:lere),    B.    xxxv.   84;  ersihe 
(:  fihe),  L.  N.  32S7). 

Most  of  these  last  are  subjunctives,  and  in  no  case  is  the  word 
in  rhyme  of  such  a  character  that  the  e  might  not  be  omitted. 
In  the  case  of  the  prose  writings  we  have  no  criterion  for  deter- 
mining the  genuineness  of  the  forms.  As  the  prose,  however, 
shows  a  disinclination  to  apocope,  many  of  them  may  date  from 
Murner.  For  the  sake  of  completeness,  it  may  be  well  to  give 
them,  together  with  those  occurring  in  verse,  but  not  necessary 
to  the  metre,  in  full.  The  ist  sing,  of  sehen  occurs  quite  fre- 
quently with  e. 

Ich  siihe,  S.  Z.  586;  Gu.  477,  36;  K.  v.  E.  921,  13. 

Suhe  ich,  S.  Z.,  596;  ich  sihe,  L.  N.  367;  1086;  2235;  2753: 
3281;  3953;  4523;  4568:  M.  13;  1051;  syhe,  G.  2092;  3132;  5220; 
K.  V.  E.  916,  22;  936,  12;  siche,  G.  553.  Subj.  sehe,  S.  Z.  987; 
N.  5390;  L.  N.  2250. 

Other  occurrences  are  as  follows : 

Verliihe  ich,  S.  Z.  616;  ziehe  (subj.),  N.  846;  zere,  N.  2469; 
erziihe,  N.  2576;  verzeihe,  L.  N.  4337;  tue  ich,  N.  8142;  finde,  G. 
3152;  entpfahe,  B.xxx.  61;  ich  lere,  Gu.  430,  33;  sage,  Gu.  434,  38; 
achte  ich,  Gu.  437,  37;  basse,  Gu.  441,  25;  schetze,  Gu.  450,  21: 
here,  K.  v.  £.,  920,  6;  kiine,  K.  v.  E.  923,  6;  anfichte,  K.  v.  E. 
926,  26;  hie  stolziere  ich,  K.  v.  E.  967,  18. 

As  to  the  frequency  of  these  occurrences,  compared  with 
those  with  apocope  of  the  e^  S.  Z.  may  serve  as  an  illustration. 
In  its  1500  lines  there  are  found  but  4  examples  of  the  longer 
form,  none  of  which  are  required  by  the  metre,  to  48  without  e. 

In  the  weak  verbs  we  find,  in  addition,  an  ending  -en  occur- 


Daniel  B.  Shumzvay.  23 

ring  for  the  most  part  in  verbs  belonging  to  the  second  or  third 
class  (O.  H.  G.  -on  and  hi).  They  occur  mainly  in  rhyme,  and 
are  evidently  survivals  of  the  older  ending.  Besides  the  forms 
verj'agen^  N.  8303,  seyeit^  N,  331,  and  ernereii.,  N.  6197,  cited  by 
Lauchert,  I  have  found  also  the  following : 

Es  wer  nit  not,  als  ich  das  schetzen  (zu  setzen),  S.  Z.  750. 
Es  schadt  dir  nit,  der  ich  dich  strafen  (:  schlafen).  N.  145. 
Ich  schetzen  (:  etzen),  V.  1399;  ich  erneren  (:  eren),  N.  2575. 
Wie  ich  dem  rechten  loufen  nach,  N.  2335. 

Ich  sagen  (:  geschlagen),  N.  5 171;  ich  weren  (:  beschweren), 
N.  8315. 

It  will  be  noticed  that,  with  one  exception,  all  are  found  in  N. 

With  haben  and  tJmn  the  form  occurs  with  greater  frequency, 
and  will  be  discussed  under  the  respective  verbs. 

In  the  second  person,  as  a  rule,  the  vowel  of  the  ending  is 
syncopated,  except  where  the  metre  demands  its  retention.  This 
results  occasionally  in  the  loss  of  the  dental  as  well,  in  order  to 
make  the  combination  more  easily  pronounced;  as,  for  example, 
in  the  following  passage  : 

Wa  du  gute  gsellen  finst  (:  kiinst),  N.  854. 

Similarly,  in  the  2d  plur.: 

Ir  wert  (ir  werdet),  L.  N.  2S26;  2828. 

An  isolated  case  of  the  dropping  of  the  s  occurs  in  the  fol- 
lowing : 

Sag  an,  Murner,  was  machstu  da, 

Das  du  mein  dochter  schlecht  also.   L.  N.  4287. 

A  similar  instance  in  the  2d  sing.  pret.  subj.  of  machen  may 
also  be  mentioned  here  : 

Hettestu  dich  dar  fiir  gefliszen, 

Das  du  usz  wisen  narren  mecht, 

Die  selbig  arbeit  wiird  dir  schlecht.     N.  121. 

The  verb  wollen  exhibits  only  the  older  form,  ivilt.,  e.  g.: 

Wen  du  das  nit  vergelten  wilt  (:  gefilt),  S.  Z.  730. 


24  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

Likewise  the  preterite-present  verb  sollen  shows  only  the  form 
solt^  e.  g.: 

Wie  du  dein  worter  um  solt  keren,  S.  Z,  963. 
The  only  exceptions  to  this  are  the  following : 

Du  solst  wol  thun  ein  finden  hie,  L.  N.  3465. 
Du  solst,  Kal.  204,  33. 

The  forms  du  solst,  N.  1132  and  N.  4357,  are  not  present,  but 
preterite. 

The  subjunctive  form  exhibits  the  e  regularly,  e.  g.: 

Du  sagst  du  soUest  das  nein  beweisen,  K.  v.  E.  930,  31. 

All  the  other  verbs  of  this  class  have  s. 

A  sporadic  example  of  an  ending  in  <?,  due  to  the  rhyme,  is 
the  following : 

E  das  du  myns  gelichen  finde, 

Der  so  usz  biindig  gucken  kynde.     G.  31. 

It  is  barely  possible  that  the  older  pret.  ind.  du  fi'mde  may 
have  served  as  a  model  for  this  form. 

The  syncope  of  the  vowel  in  the  3d.  sing,  of  stems  ending  in 
a  dental,  which  is  not  admissable  in  N.  H.  G.,  occurs  frequently 
in  Murner,  as  in  most  writers  of  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  cen- 
turies, e.  g.: 

Ein  pfaff,  der  ander  pfaffen  schendt 

Und  in  der  predig  an  si  wendt.     S.  Z.  12S1. 

Wie  er  sin  kind  zu  herren  macht 

Und  schindt  und  schabet  iederman.     N.  4802. 

Was  glust  dich  doch  ?  L.  N.  4517. 

In  addition  to  these  four,  given  by  way  of  illustration,  it 
occurs  in  the  following  verbs.  As  the  instances  are  too  fre- 
quent to  admit  of  enumeration,  I  have  given  but  one  reference 
with  each  verb  : 

Acht  (achtet),  G.  12;  betracht  (betrachtet),  L.  N.  3479;  veracht 
(verachtet),  L.  N.  3527;  schadt  (schadet),  N.  145;  richt  (richtet),  N. 


Daniel  B.  SJmmway.  25 

2657;  dicht  (dichtet),  G.  13;  bindt  (bindet),  N.  3458;  verschwint 
(verschwindet),  L.  N.  925;  zindt  (zundet),  N.  762;  sundt  (sundet),  N. 
7483;  bit  (bittet),  S.  Z.  280;  ladt  (ladet),  N.  5050;  bet  (betet),  N. 
1365;  kleidt  (kleidet),  N.  2680;  leidt  (leidet),  L.  N.  73;  wiet  (wutet), 
N.  1923;  laut  (lautet),  L.  N.  381;  mort  (mordet),  N.  7318;  redt 
(redet)  N.  906;  wart  (wartet),  N.  6763;  schlitt  (schlittet)  L.  N.  204. 

The  reverse  phenomenon,  namely  the  retention  of  the  vowel 
of  the  ending  where  N.  H.  G.  to-day  syncopates,  occurs  also, 
caused,  as  a  rule,  by  the  necessity  of  having  an  extra  syllable 
to  preserve  the  rhythm.  As  the  instances  are  far  too  numerous 
to  admit  of  giving  an  exhaustive  list,  a  few  may  serve  for  all : 

Den  geschnach  doch  selber  nimmet  ein,  S.  Z.  1273. 
Eins  nach  dem  andern  fellet  um,  N.  8040. 

Similarly,  fichtet  for  ficht,  N.  940 ;  K.  v.  E.  923  ;  schlichet 
for  schlicht  (N.  H.  G.  schleicht),  N.  \^\o\  faszet  loi  fasst,  N. 
2044  ;  neret  for  nert  (niihrt),  N.  5597  ;  brichet  for  bricht  N.  2082  ; 
biiiet  for  biit  (older  N.  H.  G.  bent),  N.  6279;  ^^J^ei  for  siJit,  N. 
iioi  ;  8778. 

With  reference  to  the  comparative  frequency  of  the  full  and 
the  contracted  forms,  generally  speaking  we  may  say  that  the 
latter  predominate.  In  some  of  the  more  frequent  verbs  the 
figures  are,  for  example,  as  follows  :  but  20  to  biltet  4 ;  zi'icht 
23  to  zilhct  4  ;  fiitcht  2  to  flilhet  2  ;  fliiszt  4  to  fiihsct  i  ;  ficht  5 
\.o  fichtet  I. 

The  forms  of  seheri  are  quite  varied,  but  again  the  monosyl- 
labic forms  predominate.  We  have  51  occurrences  of  sicht 
(siht),  3  of  silht  (S.  Z.  847  ;  1244 ;  1259)  to  7  of  sihet  (N.  iioi  ; 
8778;  M.  702;  Gu.  437,  24;  K.  V.  E.  902,  19;  909,  9;  11),  2 
of  silhet  (Gu.  402,  ^2>  \  K.  v.  E.  909,  12)  and  one  written  syhet 
(K.  V.  E.  917,  4). 

The  same  predominance  of  contracted  forms  is  found  in  the 
second  person,  e.g.  .■  10  of  sic/ist,  3  of  su/ist  to  2  of  sMest  (S.  Z. 
273  ;  K.  V.  E.  909,  37) ;  5  of  zuc/ist  to  i  of  zfi/^est  (K.  v.  E.  915, 
28). 

The  common  Alemannic  extension  of  the  endino-  -/  of  the  2d 


26  The   Verb  iti   Thomas  Miirner. 

and  3d  plural  by  analogy  to  the  first  person  occurs  frequently  in 
both  the  present  and  preterite.  The  different  texts  vary  con- 
siderably in  respect  to  this  adding  or  dropping  of  the  -t.  The 
S.  Z.  and  N.  printed  at  nearly  the  same  time,  151 2,  are  very 
similar  in  respect  to  the  relative  frequency  of  the  endings  with 
and  without  -t.  The  Gcuchmatt^  printed  in  Basel,  occupies  a 
somewhat  independent  position,  but  in  the  main  agrees  with  the 
above,  as  does,  likewise,  M.  published  in  151 7.  L.  N.  and  K.  v. 
E.  published  in  Strassburg,  1522,  show  a  decided  advance  upon 
the  others  in  retaining  the  -t  mainly  in  the  second  person  in 
accordance  with  modern  usage.  B.  though  printed  but  two  years 
later,  in  Strassburg,  than  S.  Z.  and  N.,  shows  already  the  tendency 
to  uniformity  most  clearly  instanced.  This  is  perhaps  to  be 
explained  by  the  fact  that  both  B.  and  L.  N.  were  printed  by 
Johannes  Griininger,  who  seems  to  have  adopted  the  new  system 
earlier  than  the  rival  establishment  of  HupfufF.  In  making  the 
count  the  forms  of  sein  were  omitted,  as  they  exhibit  almost 
without  exception  the  dental  in  the  ending.  For  example,  S.  Z., 
G.  B.  M.  and  Gu.  have  not  an  instance  without  -t  and  N.  but  four 
in  the  first  thousand  lines.  Only  in  the  case  of  L.  N.  do  we  find 
the  reverse  of  the  picture.  It  has,  counting  all  three  persons, 
95  instances  without  to  37  with  -/,  all  but  three  of  which  latter 
occur  in  rhyme. 

Passing  by  the  occurrences  of  sein  then,  we  find,  for  all  other 
verbs,  the  following  figures.  In  the  ist  plur.  pres.  S.  Z.  has  21 
occurrences  with  -/to  22  without,  14  of  which  latter,  however, 
occur  in  the  first  five  hundred  lines.  The  proportion  for  the 
remaining  thousand  is  18  with  to  8  without.  N.  has  109  with 
to  65  without,  or  about  three  to  two.  Similarly,  M.  with  8  to 
5.  In  G.  the  percentage  of  occurrences  without  -t  increases, 
becoming  larger  than  those  with  -/,  namely  34  with  to  38  with- 
out. B.  conforms  more  to  modern  usage  as  indicated  above,  the 
numbers  being  50  without  to  29  with  -t.  L.  N.  contains  but  11 
instances  of  the  ending  -/,  all  of  which  are  due  to  the  rhyme,  to 
192  without  -/.  In  other  words,  it  practically  agrees  with  the 
modern  norm.     K.  v.  E.  with  12  instances  with  -/  to  90  without, 


Daniel  B.  Shumzuay,  27 

and  Gu.  with  7  of  -t  to  54  without  exhibit  the  same  tendency, 
though  not  so  markedly. 

In  the  3d  plur.  N.  shows  about  the  same  proportion  as  above, 
432  with  to  264  without  -t  (156  in  rhyme)  and  G.  similarly  278 
to  161  (64  in  rhyme).  S.  Z.,  B.  and  M.  are  rather  impartial  in 
the  use  of  the  endings,  that  without  -t  predominating  slightly 
in  the  latter  two  :  S.  Z.  44  to  35,  B.  69  to  78,  M.  86  to  95  with- 
out -t.  ly.  N.,  K.  V.  E.  and  Gu.  again  show  a  decided  tendency 
to  conform  to  modern  usage,  K.  v.  E.  having  182  without  to  43 
with  t,  Gu.  450  to  65  and  L.  N.  still  purer,  416  without  to  25 
with  -/*,  23  of  which  latter  occur  in  rhyme. 

In  the  2d  plur.,  owing  to  the  confusion,  we  have  three  different 
endings,  namely,  with  -/',  without  it  and  the  combination  of 
both  in  -nt^  e.  g.  : 

Wie  ir  sie  braten,  sieden,  schinden,  N.  2473. 

Ir  sagt,  ir  kiint  den  himel  steg,  N.  614. 

Ir  kumment  mir  ietz  recht  und  eben,  N.  2647. 

Frequently  two  different  forms  occur  side  by  side  : 

Nun  lugt,  thun  ein  triivven  stant,  L.  N.  2306. 

Nun  raten  zu,  liigt  und  bedenkt,  N.  86. 

Fart  hin,  farn  hin,  betracht  das  end,  L.  N.  2880. 

B.  and  N.  are  rather  evenly  divided  between  the  forms,  with 
-t  and  -7it.  The  former  has  38  with  t,  T^-i^  with  -nt  and  6  with  -n 
alone.  The  latter  has  139  with  -/,  109  with  -7it  and  41  with  -it 
of  which  23  occur  in  rhyme.  G.  shows  a  decided  preference  for  -/, 
having  88  with  this  as  against  23  without  and  32  with  -nt.  L.  N. 
and  K.  v.  E.  curiously  enough  exhibit  a  great  preponderance  of 
the  ending  -;;,  L.  N.  having  147  with  this,  90  with  -/  and  but  3 
with  -fit  all  in  rhyme  ;  K.  v.  E-  having  64  with  -;z,  6  with  -/  and 
15  with  -nt.  The  occurrences  in  the  other  texts  are  as  follows : 
S.  Z.  23  with  -nt.,  12  with  -/,  4  with  -;?,  a  decided  preference  for 
/-endings.  M.  11  with  -nt.,  7  with  -/,  6  with  -n  (4  in  rhyme). 
Gu.  agrees  more  with  L.  N.  and  K.  v.  E.  having  6  with  -n  to 
one  each  of  -t  and  -nt. 


28  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

In  the  preterite  plural  the  occurrences  are  much  rarer  and  the 
percentage  on  that  account  not  so  free  from  danger  of  error. 
As  is  to  be  expected,  however,  the  -/  being  original  only  in  the 
second  person,  the  other  persons  show  less  tendency  to  adopt  it 
than  is  the  case  in  the  present  tense.  Most  of  the  texts  contain 
no  instances  of  -/  in  the  ist  plur,  and  all  the  occurrences  of  it  are 
merely  sporadic.  N.  has  20  without  to  2  with,.G.  5  to  i,  B.  10 
to  I,  while  S.  Z.  has  4,  M.  2,  K.  v.  E.  7,  Gu.  13-,  L.  N.  2)1,  without 
to  none  with  -t. 

In  the  3d  person  we  have  also  a  large  percentage  in  favor  of 
the  form  without  -t.  N.  has  39  with  to  121  without,  G.  49  with 
to  109  without,  B.  13  with  to  27  without,  M.  6  with  to  19  with- 
out, Gu.  6  with  to  114  without,  and  K.  v.  E.  2  with  to  51  with- 
out. S.  Z.  forms  a  slight  exception,  having  7  with  to  9  without. 
L.  N.  exhibits  the  same  tendency  to  do  away  with  the  -/  men- 
tioned above,  the  72  forms  occurring  all  ending  in  en. 

In  the  2d  person  we  find  a  growing  tendency  to  conform  the 
ending  to  that  of  the  first  and  third  persons,  in  other  words  to 
drop  the  -t  completely.  The  one  instance  of  this  person  in  S. 
Z.  exhibits  -nt.  N.  with  4  -/,  7  -«/,  12  -?/,  and  G.  with  5  -/,  6  -;z/, 
9  -n  are  comparatively  impartial,  but  already  exhibit  the  ten- 
dency. The  remaining  texts  contain  no  instance  of  -/,  B.,  Gu. 
and  K.  v.  E.  each  having  one,  M.  four  and  L.  V.  21  occurrences 
with  -n. 

Summing  up  we  may  say  that  the  older  prints,  S.  Z.  and  N. 
show  complete  confusion  in  the  endings,  while  L.  N.  shows  a 
remarkable  conformity  to  the  modern  norm,  except  in  the  second 
persons  of  both  present  and  preterite,  where  its  fondness  for  -7t 
leads  it  to  choose  in  the  former  case  the  ending  -nt  and  in  the 
latter  simple  -;/.  The  other  prints  occupy  intermediate  positions 
in  conformity  to  their  dates  of  publication. 

The  2d  sing.  pret.  ind.  of  the  strong  verbs  no  longer  exhibits 
the  M.  H.  G.  form,  but  in  every  case  the  new  analogical  one  in 
use  to-day.  Lauchert,  in  his  above-mentioned  article,^  speaks 
of  beine  able  to  find  but  one  instance. 


^  Alemaiinia,  xviii,  p.  150. 


Daniel  B.  SJuunzvay.  29 

The  form  is  not,  however,  of  such  infrequent  occurrence, 
the  following  instances  being  found  in  the  texts  at  my  disposal : 
Jielest^  N,  920;  shindstii^  N.  921  ;  sachstu^  N.  925;  versprach- 
est^  N.  928  ;  die  tetst  (M.  H.  G.  du  tcBte)^  N.  929 ;  B.  xxii.  34  ; 
7tamst^  N.  933;  gabstii^  G.  y]^\\  gabst^  B.  ix.  60;  xxii.  36; 
vorlougst^  G.  3742 ;  erbotstu^  B.  v.  44  ;  sassest^  B.  ix.  59 ; 
truogst^  B.  xxxv.  103  ;  du  wuoscht^  B.  v.  45  ;  warst^  V.  6261  ; 
B.  ix.  65 ;  K.  V.  E.  908,  7. 

The  first  and  third  persons  exhibit  occasionally  the  ending  -e 
formed  in  analogy  to  the  weak  verbs,  e.  g.: 

AIs  Heli  selber  auch  geschahe, 
Do  er  durch  sine  finger  sahe.     N.  4550. 
Und  (er)  zohe  mit  allem  here  darvon,  G.  1535. 

This  is,  however,  not  of  frequent  occurrence,  and  Murner  dif- 
fers quite  essentially  in  this  respect  from  other  writers  of  his 
time — Hans  Sach^lfor  example,  whose  works  exhibit  numerous 
instances,  and  Luther,  with  whom  the  writing  of  the  -e  became 
almost  the  rule,  rather  than  the  exception.^ 

I  have  noted  in  Murner  the  following  occurrences  :  iidte^  M. 
921  ;  verliche^  Kal.  212,  12  ;  zohe^  G.  1535  ;  fiohe^  G.  4333  ;  ver- 
lore^  G.  2165;  Gu.  410,  28;  verbarge^  B.  viii.  22;  halfe^  N. 
6691 ;  warde^  B.  xvi.  57  ;  Gu.  436,  30 ;  name^  N.  419 ;  vername^ 
G.  4250  ;  asse^  M.  629 ;  jahe^  M.  128  ;  pflage^  Gu.  424,  32  ; 
erwuchse^  Gu.  410,  30;  fiele^  Gu.  409,  28  ;  behielte^  Gu.  411,  32. 

The  verbs  sehe7i  and  geschehen  show  some  slight  preference 
for  this  form,  especially  in  G.  and  B.  The  following  instances 
occur :  sahe^  N.  4550  ;  N.  7589  ;  G.  488  ;  534  ;  B.  viii.  21  ;  xviii. 
25;  xxvii.  66;  M.  129  and  339;  Gu.  433,  38.  Geschahe:  N. 
4550;  G.  II  ;  917  ;  1523  ;  2404;  B.  viii.  20  ;  xvii.  24  ;  xvii.  67  ; 
Gu.  479,  25. 

Whereas,  in  the  older  language,  the  prefix  ge-  was  omitted 
mainly  in  the  past  participles  only  of  the  verbs  kommen^  Jinden^ 

^  See  my  article  Das  ablautende  Verbum  bei  Hans  Sachs.  Gottinger  Diss. , 
1S95,  pp.  22,  27,  30  and  passim  under  the  diflferent  verbs.  Also,  Socin,  as  quoted 
above. 


30  The   Verb  in   Thoinas  Murnei'. 

bringen^  werden  and  treffen^  IMurner  shares  with  his  contem- 
poraries the  inclination  to  form  the  perf.  part,  of  all  verbs  with- 
out it,  whenever  it  fitted  better  into  the  metre  of  the  line.  It 
occurs  with  the  following  verbs  :  bissen^  N.  3656  ;  4466  ;  4814  ; 
8691  ;  badet^  B.  xxviii.  43 ;  beten^  N.  8074 ;  8093 ;  betet^  N. 
1790;  bracht^  N.  1587;  3956,  etc.  (51  occurrences);  brannt^  N. 
4615  ;  brennet^  G.  4231  ;  iifbrochen^  N.  4338  ;  uszbriitet^  N.  698  ; 
brucht^  L.  N.  430;  G.  2976  ;  4449  ;  bnnden^  G.  3412  ;  M.  1662  ; 
biiciien,  G.  4838  ;  dichtet^  G.  3782  ;  B.  xxxiv.  ']']  ;  dinget^  L.  N. 
2842;  diildt^  L.  N.  74;  egert^  L.  N.  d^2\\\  fiinden^  N.  1492; 
2583  etc.  (20  occurrences);  freszeii^  N.  3162;  3219  etc.  (18 
occurrences);  gaiigen^  N.  6289;  6583  etc.  (17  occurrences); 
gebcn  (gegeben),  S.  Z.  316;  N.  2866  etc.  (74  occurrences); 
gossen^  N.  3180;  M.  288,  etc.  (10  occurrences);  griffen^  L.  N. 
2163;  G.  5025;  gunnt^  N.  4819;  B.  xv.  8;^  henkt^  G.  3147; 
kant,  N.  1379  ;  L.  N.  275  ;  G.  3607  ;  Gu.  410,  32  ;  482,  32  ; 
klagct,  G.  318  ;  L.  N.  4107  ;  G.  5315  ;  koiifet,  N.  6331 ;  L.  N. 
963  ;  G.  3849 ;  Gu.  441,  26  ;  kleibet^  L.  N.  416 ;  kochet^  N.  3129 ; 
G.  1381  ;  Gu.  418,  27;  kr2islet^  N.  2210;  kronet^  S.  Z.  913; 
kumen^  L.  N.  1086 ;  N.  3780,  etc.  (79  occurrences)  {um)kcret^ 
N.  4617  ;  krochen,  S.  Z.  894 ;  prediget^  N.  3273  ;  sehen^  Gu. 
481,  25  ;  tretten^  INI.  1332  ;  troffen  (getroffen),  N.  7914 ;  8696, 
etc.  (13  occurrences);  trunken,  N.  5261;  5962;  K.  v.  E.  921, 

31  ;  922,  7  ;  tragen,  N.  5729 ;  L.  N.  471  ;  3902  ;  B.  xxxv,  98  ; 
M.  1548;  triben,  N.  175;  4089;  5838;  7060;  L.  N.  3884;  G. 
3245  ;  truwet,  L.  N.  347  ;  ton  (gethan),  N.  4406 ;  4546,  etc.  (83 
occurrences);  ivordeti^  N.  6476  ;  7401;  8804,  etc.  (64  occurrences) ; 
zalet,  B.  xvi,  9 ;  zeigt,  M.  346  ;  zwungen,  N.  4958  ;  G.  274 ;  B. 
i,  36;  K.  v.  E.  926,  17;  zeichnet,  S.  Z.  375;  zogen,  S.  Z.  324; 
1414 ;  G.  4552  ;  B.  xxxiii,  74. 

1  See  Braune,  ahd.  Gr.  \  323,  An.  i. 

*  I  have  included  this,  although,  properly  speaking,  the  ge-  is  already  repre- 
sented in  the  verb,  it  being  a  compound  with  this  prefix,  as  is  well  known. 
This  fact  had,  however,  long  since  been  forgotten.  The  form  giinnen  occurs 
even  in  late  O.  H.  G.,  and  in  M.  H.  G.  supplanted  the  simple  nnuen.  See 
Braune,  ahd.  Gr.  ?  373,  3  An.  i. 


Dajiiel  B.  Shiimway.  31 

As  to  the  proportion  of  occurrences  with  ge-^  as  compared  to 
those  without,  this  varies  greatly  in  different  verbs.  Those  that 
in  the  older  language  are  generally  found  without  it,  discard  it 
also  in  Murner,  The  past  part,  of  werden  appears  only  as 
worden ;  of  kumen  (kommen)  only  as  kumcii.  The  full  form 
gcf linden  occurs  but  once,  N.  2569.  The  participle  of  geben 
appears  mostly  without  ge-^  gegebeit  occurring  but  nine  times. 
In  the  case  of  giessen^  ten  instances  without  ge-  are  found,  to 
seven  with  the  particle.  In  the  prose  texts,  as  is  to  be  expected, 
since  no  contraction  of  words  for  metrical  purposes  is  necessary, 
the  proportion  of  fuller  forms  is  much  larger  than  in  the  poeti- 
cal texts.  For  example,  in  the  case  of  the  frequently  occurring 
verb  thiin^  but  two  instances  of  participles  without  ge-  are  found 
to  78  with  it ;  while,  in  the  metrical  texts,  81  without  ^^-  occur 
to  209  with  it,  II  of  which  appear  as  gtayi^  with  syncopation  of 
the  e  of  the  particle. 

In  the  case  of  the  verb  bleiben^  the  fact  that  it  is  compounded 
with  the  preposition  bi  has  not  been  lost  sight  of,  the  perf.  part, 
being  still,  as  in  M.  H.  G.,  beliben.  A  few  examples  will  suf- 
fice for  all : 

Wer  die  glotz  drum  uszbeliben,  S.  Z.  176. 
War  er  bliben,  B.  viii.  24  and  26. 
So  sind  die  alten  wolf  vertriben 
Und  jungen  wolf  im  nest  beliben.  N.  6727. 
Also,  bliben,  L.  V.  2391;  2400;  2709;  3863;  belyben,  G.  2  etc. 

In  harmony  with  this  is  the  frequent  occurrence  of  the  prefix 
in  its  full  form  in  the  infinitive  and  present  tense,  e.  g.:  Inf. 
beliben^  N.  7039;  G.  199;  sol  uszbeliben^  G.  613  etc.  Pres. 
belibt^  N.  6947  ;  7870 ;  beleiben^  L.  N.  1958,  etc. 

This  statement  finds  excellent  corroboration  in  the  perf.  part. 
tmterlyben^  G.  2446,  evidently  a  compound  of  the  simplex  liben^ 
although  the  compound,  to  my  knowledge,  does  not  occur  as  a 
verb  in  M.  H.  G.  The  nouns  nnderlibiinge  and  nnderlibe  do, 
however,  occur.' 


^  lycxer,  mM.  Wb.  2,  1790. 


32  The   Verb  in   T/ionas  Maimer. 

Murner  retains  much  of  the  M.  H.  G.  freedom  of  prefixing 
the  particle  ge-  to  all  forms  of  a  verb,  to  strengthen  the  meaning 
or  produce  the  effect  of  completed  action.  In  addition  to  numer- 
ous examples  of  the  verbs  gelieten^  gedenken^  gebraiichcji^  ge- 
/allen^  gelingen^  geraten^  geretien^  geschehen^  gesegjiai^  gcste- 
hen^  gewinneii^  etc.,  in  use  to-day,  the  following  instances  with 
other  verbs  are  found  :  gebessern  L.  N.  794  ;  gehellen^  G.  1276  : 

Bis  er  ein  ursach  abgebricht,  N.  1773. 
Der  doch  dich  dorum  nie  gebat,  S.  Z.  213. 
Bis  man  die  fort  ini  ufgeschlietz,  N.  4054. 

Als  ich  die  worter  alle  gesprach^  L.  N.  224;  er  sol  gekaben^ 
Gu.  417,  Tfj  \  das  im  geschzvindi^  L.  N.  4302  ;  geschzuinden^  G. 
741  ;  geschzveigshi^  K.  v.  E.  970,  i  ;  si  gesagen,  N.  2510;  ich 
geschzvig^  G.  4854 ;  K.  v.  E.  896,  4 ;  Kal.  206,  30 ;  K.  v.  E. 
896,  4  ;  943,  10 ;  ich  wil  geschzveigen.,  L.  N.  84 ;  G.  742  ;  K.  v. 
E.  933,  32  ;  wann  der  tiifel  nit  gesicht^  N.  5849 ;  getrosicji^ 
L.  N.  2907  ;  geschzvalent^  Gu.  409,  23  ;  484,  28 ;  gehelfen^  Gu. 
472,  30 ;  kein  man  uff  erd  das  geschriben  kan  ]\I.  382  ;  wer 
geredt^  N.  6510. 

I  have  noted  also  the  following  instances  of  the  prefixing  of 
ge-  to  the  perf.  part,  of  verbs  of  foreign  origin  according  to 
the  well-known  M.  H.  G.  usage  : 

Ich  hab  gstudiert,  also  fast,  S.  Z.  402  ;  412. 

Und  nie  vorhin  gstudieret  hat,  N.  4964. 

gereguliert,  K.  v.  E.  921,  12  ;  gefundiert,  K.  v.  E.  929,  5. 

Like  other  writers  of  his  time  Murner  makes  use  of  many 
contractions  in  order  to  give  an  otherwise  too  long  verse  the  cor- 
rect number  of  syllables.  The  e  of  the  particle  ge-  is  especially 
liable  to  be  syncopated,  but  also  other  prefixes,  and  even  inde- 
pendent words  are  treated  in  the  same  manner.  No  combination 
of  letters  seems  too  harsh  to  prevent  the  syncopation.  As  the 
instances  are  very  numerous  it  will  suffice  to  give  an  example 
or  two  of  each  combination  :  gb.  :  gboreii^  N.  2272  ;  gbictcn^  N. 
2167;    gd :  gdenkt^  N.   2624;  gf :  gfochten^  N.   706;  gficl^  N. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  33 

1497  ;  gh  :  ghort,  N.  3379 ;  ghalten,  N.  5897  ;  gl :  gladen,  N. 
2485  ;  glogen,  N.  3275  ;  gm  :  gmacht,  N.  3553  ;  gmalt,  N.  5274  ; 
gn  :  gnant^  N.  61  ;  gmmmien^  N.  82  ;  gr :  gredt^  N.  6520,  6544  ; 
gs :  gsimgen  S.  Z.  493  ;  gsch  :  gsdmnden^  N,  687  ;  gschlagcn^ 
N.  5428  ;  gt :  ^/«;z,  N.  932,  L.  N.  4706 ;  gz  :  gzindet^  N.  6147. 

With  be-:  bd:  bdunken  N.  277;  bd'iit  N.  3499;  <^^ :  <^^2^7Z/ 
N.  363  ;  bgert  N.  5209  ;  bh  :  bhoupten  N.  3001  ;  <^>^^//,  N.  4839  ; 
bs :  bsorgt^  N.  297,  bsachen  N.  6367  ;  bsch :  bschaffen  S.  Z.  1603, 
bschwert^.  127;  ^/ :  btrogen  S.  Z.  561;  N.  2376;  ^^ :  <^^«/^;? 
S.  Z.  374. 

With  ver:  vloren  N.  3920. 

With  zu :  zleren  N.  545  ;  z^eszeii  N.  2898 ;  zgeben  N.  5890 ; 
zscheidejt  N.  5916. 

A  phenomenon  that  belongs  rather  to  syntax,  but  which  may 
be  mentioned  here  for  want  of  a  better  place,  is  the  use  of  the 
auxiliary  haben  with  verbs  which,  in  N.  H.  G.,  form  their  com- 
pound tenses  with  sein.  It  is  only  of  sporadic  occurrence.  I 
have  noticed  the  following  instances : 

1.  With  gehen  : 

Wie  wol  ich  hab  in  deutscher  sprach 

Fil  schimpfe  reden  gangen  nach,  S.  Z.  1405. 

2.  With  wachsen: 

Do  der  pfeffer  gewachsen  hat,  N.  6S99. 

On  the  other  hand  in  a  similar  passage ; 

Das  vor  kein  mensch  hat  gewist, 

Das  spezri  da  gewachsen  ist,  V.  2571. 

The  following  cases  of  the  omission  of  zii  with  the  infinitive, 
where  modern  usage  requires  its  presence,  have  come  under  my 
notice : 

Es  Stat  in  der  zwolf  boten  lesen,  N.  4276. 

As  this  instance  is  really  the  dative  of  the  old  gerund  ze 
lesenne^  the  omission  is  the  more  striking. 

In  the  majority  of  cases  zu  is  omitted  after  the  verb  anfahen  : 


34  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Maimer, 

Noch  facht  er  an  ein  furkouf  triben,  N.  6088. 
Und  fachst  din  metten  beten  an,  N.  7102. 
Das  man  ietz  facht  an  verston,  L.  N.  1113  ;  B.  iii,  37. 
Und  (ich)  fah  die  geuchmat  schriben  an,  G.  308. 
Da  fieng  ich  in  erst  an  beschweren,  L.  N,  231  ;  also  M.  1433, 
1523,   1547. 

That  this,  however,  is  not  without  exception  is  proved  by  the 
following  examples : 

Focht  es  aber  an  zu  sehen,  G.  3045. 
So  fohent  sy  schon  an  zu  liegen,  G.  4605. 
Und  fiengen  bessers  an  zu  leren,  L.  N.  485. 
Facht  an  zu  biessen,  B.  vi,  44 ;  fieng  ich  zu  suochen  an,  M. 
1496. 

The  following  are  good  instances  of  the  use  of  the  pure 
infinitive  without  zti^  so  often  found  in  M.  H.  G.  : 

Der  kranck  sol  ein  mal  on  attem  fassen  drinken,  Gu.  421,  34. 
Du  zwingst  mich,  an  den  bettel  gou,  N.  2326. 

Brechen  is  also  found  without  zu^  though  dependent  upon  a 
noun : 

Dan  wil  ich  glauben,  wer  es  zeit. 

Also  mit  zorn  >i<  *  *  *  herfiir  brechen,  L.  N.  2912. 

The  past  participle  of  gesehen  is  used  occasionally  where  we 
should  now  use  the  present  participle  : 

Das  einer  her  was  kummen  blind 
Und  gesehen  wider  dannen,  N.  3874. 

Etlich  gesehen,  etlich  blind,  N.  5478. 

Die  gsehcnen,  oder  auch  die  blinden,  N.  7357. 

Und  von  gesehen  wurdt  er  blindt,  G.  1668. 

Similarly  the  participle  of  vcrstehen  : 

Verstanden  liiten  wurt  geprediget,  S.  Z.  663. 

This  is  perhaps  to  be  connected  with  the  adverbial  use  of  the 
past  part,  in  M.  H.  G.  in  connection  with  such  verbs  as  ezzen 
and  trinken  :  ungezzcfi  and  ungetrunken} 


^  Cf.  Paul,  mhd.  Gramm.  \  292. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  35 

In  accordance  with  Upper  German  usage  the  verb  sitzen  forms 
its  compound  tenses  only  with  sein  : 

Der  ist  vorhin  auch  dyn  gesessen,  L.  N.  2955. 
Die  vor  auch  din  gesessen  woren,  L.  N.  2951, 

Other  occurrences :  L.  N.  2678,  2787  ;  N.  4725,  6673,  7345, 

Gefallen  in  the  sense  of  '  to  please  '  occurs  once  with  sein  : 

Under  welchen  wyben  alien 

Allein  Thays  mir  ist  gefallen,  G.  2177, 

The  M.  H.  G.  usage  of  the  pres.  part,  with  the  auxiliary  verb 
sein^  obsolete  in  N.  H.  G.,  but  retained  in  English,  occurs  in 
the  following  instances : 

Gedenckt  warum  ir  seindt  beschaffen 

Und  warten  seint  der  lesten  straffen,  B.  viii,  54. 

Die  dienent  ist,  B.  viii,  46;  ich  erwarten  bin,  Gu.  473,  26. 

Murner  differs  considerably  in  this  respect  from  Hans  Sachs, 
in  whose  writings  the  construction  is  of  frequent  occurrence/ 
Stehen  occurs  once  with  zu  to  express  motion,  as  in  M.  H.  G.  : 

Dann  stent  wir  zu  dem  stein  im  garten,  N.  4746. 


-THE   STRONG   VERB. 


FIRST  ABLAUT  SERIES. 
M.  H.  G.  i— ei— i— i. 
The  chief  difficulty  with  this  class  of  verbs  is  found  in  the 
present  stem,  where,  in  most  cases,  it  is  impossible  to  tell 
whether  the  vowel  written  variously  ?",  y  and  ei^  is  to  be  taken 
as  representing  the  M.  H.  G.  long  i  or  the  new  diphthong  ei. 
Generally  speaking  we  can  assume  that,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
Alemanic  dialect  of  to-day,  the  diphthongization  of  the  long  z, 
although  not  unknown  to  Murner,  was  used  by  him  but  seldom, 
and  that  its  introduction  was  due  almost  entirely  to  the  composi- 


^  See  above-mentioned  article  on  Hans  Sac'hs,  p.  11. 


36  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Mitrtier, 

tor.  The  fact,  however,  that  numerous  instances  of  the  older 
spelling  with  i  occur  by  the  side  of  those  with  ei  proves  that  in 
the  former  case  the  compositor  unconsciously  followed  Murner's 
orthography,  and  did  not,  as  in  the  other  cases,  correct  it  ac- 
cording to  the  new  Strassburg  norm.  The  numerous  rhymes, 
such  2iS>fiis2  :  narrabitis^  L<.  N.  197  ;  schrigen  (schreien) :  fiiegen^ 
N.  1973;  schin :  keyserin^  B.  ix,  52;  hiniynelrich :  sich^  B.  xv, 
50;  sin:  hyft^  M.  \^Tf>\  findt :  sindt^  are  conclusive  as  to  the 
pronunciation  of  the  vowel.  On  the  other  hand,  that  Murner, 
himself  at  times,  made  use  of  the  new  diphthong  is  proved  by 
his  letters,  the  manuscripts  of  which  still  exist,  where  such 
spellings  as  mein^  weysen^  nieyjter^  meins^  sem  are  found,^  as  also 
by  such  rhymes  as  wysen  :  reisen  (M.  H.  G.  wtsen  :  reisen\  zeyt  : 
abtreyt  (M.  H.  G.  zit :  abirezi),  and  beiteii :  bereiteii  (M.  H.  G. 
Uiten  ;  bereiteii).  Similarly,  eis :  weisz  (M.  H.  G.  is  :  weiz),  mein  : 
klein  (M.  H.  G.  min :  klein).^ 

The  older  prints  differ  from  the  later  ones  materially  in  re- 
spect to  the  retention  of  the  old  orthography.  N.  for  example 
(printed  151 2)  contains  but  scattered  instances  of  the  new  diph- 
thong ei.  The  pronoun  dein  occurs  in  the  first  1000  lines  14 
times  as  din  to  2  as  dein  ;  min  10  times  to  mein  4  /  wis  (weise) 
16,  to  weis  I,  the  latter  in  the  compound  weisheit^  where  the 
ending  may  have  influenced  the  spelling.  Of  forty  instances 
of  the  verbs  of  the  first  class  but  one  occurrence  with  ei  is  found. 
S.  Z.  printed  in  the  same  year  shows  a  decidedly  greater  prefer- 
ence for  the  new  diphthong,  twenty  occurrences  of  the  verbs  of 
this  class  exhibiting  ei  to  ten  with  the  older  /.  This  is,  how- 
ever, accounted  for  by  its  having  been  printed  in  Frankfurt. 
L.  N.,  printed  in  1522,  shows  a  decided  advance  in  this  respect. 
Whereas  in  N.  the  new  diphthong  occurs  but  sporadically,  here 
the  case  is  reversed.  Of  15  occurrences  of  the  verb  sein  not  one 
shows  the  old  vowel  in  the  infinitive.  There  are  19  instances 
of  meiji  in  the  first  500  lines,  none  of  min.     In  the  same  space 

^  See  Stirius,  p.  24. 

^  See  Lauchert,  Alemannia,  vol.  xviii,  p.  143. 

'  For  further  examples  of  Stirius,  p.  24. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  37 

there  occurs  but  one  instance  of  the  older  vowel  in  the  verbs  of 
the  first  class,  and  that  is  due  to  the  rhyme : 

Wil  euwere  narrenkolben  beschriben. 

Es  wer  mir  sunst  wol  uber  bliben,  L.  N.  134. 

Only  in  the  case  of  diminutives,  the  form  liji  is  preferred  to 
lei7i^  fifteen  instances  of  the  former  occurring  in  500  lines  to 
none  of  the  latter.  This  is  without  doubt  due  to  the  shortening 
of  the  vowel  in  the  unaccented  syllable.  It  is  the  same  prin- 
ciple that  has  given  us  in  N.  H.  G.  the  doublets  Leiche  and  -lich^ 
Reich  and  -rich.  In  conclusion,  the  following  rhymes  may  serve 
to  illustrate  the  complete  confusion  into  which  the  orthography 
in  regard  to  this  point  had  fallen  : 

Das  ich  erst  solt  zum  schelmen  warden 

Und  wider  mein  erboren  reich 

In  kriegen  solt  erheben  meich,  L.  N.  1754. 

where  ei  stands  for  short  z,  and  the  following : 

Ich  lasz  mich  nit  so  leicht  verscheiben, 
Von  meinen  narrenkolben  treiben,  L.  N.  503. 

where  it  stands  for  the  diphthong  ie. 

Apart  from  this  inconsistency  in  the  spelling  of  the  forms 
of  the  present  stem,  the  verbs  of  the  first  Ablaut  series  present 
no  irregularities  or  peculiarities  as  a  class. 

The  preterite  singular  is  found  seldom,  but  the  occurrences 
are  sufficient  to  show  that  Murner  still  clung  to  the  old  form  in 
ei.     It  is  found  not  only  in  rhyme  : 

Aristoteles  sich  eins  niderleit 

Das  in  ein  wyblin  iiberschreit,  G.  2774. 

Ich  kratzt  mich  ofTt  do  mich  nit  beisz 

Und  wardt  mir  in  eym  schnehuff  heisz,  G.  5379  ;  N.  18. 

but  also  in  all  positions  of  the  line  : 

Ich  streich  im  an  sein  hosen  dreck,  S.  Z.  448. 

Corsores  reit  auch  uf  eim  stecken,  N.  6661. 

Da  fieng  ich  in  erst  an  besclnveren, 

Spuwt  in  mein  hend  und  greifF  in  an,  L.  N.  232. 

Ich  weisz  sy  hyn  von  mir  zu  gon,  G.  4047  ;  M.  1584. 


38  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

Further  occurrences  :  bleib^  N.  6455  ;  L.  N.  4447  ;  G.  314  ;  G. 
349 ;  415  ;  539 ;  4052  ;  M.  918 ;  Gu.  472,  41  ;  S.  Z.  697  ;  treib, 
G.  3390;  4051;  Gu.  470,  21;  M.  919,  1513;  schreib  G.  3908, 
4056,  4975  ;  B.  2  ;  K.  v.  E.  961,  26 ;  leyd^  G.  2346  ;  leit  B.  xiv, 
34  ;  bestreit  G.  515  ;  558  ;  beiveis  B.  iv,  62  ;  reib  S.  Z.  9  ;  B.  xviii, 
18 ;  reysz  G.  994,  23  ;  steig  Gu.  408,  38  ;  weich  M.  178 ;  scheiss 
S.  Z.  444;  B.  iv,  19,  21. 

That  the  new  form  was  not  unknown  to  Murner  is  clearly 
proved  by  the  following  rhymes  : 

Dach  was  die  friheit  gar  unsust, 

Do  er  die  narrenkapp  ergrifT, 

Mit  Eva  sasz  ins  narrenschiff, 

So  bald  er  in  des  lands  verwies, 

Darinnen  stund  das  paradies,  N.  367-70. 

Eua  was  das  erste  rypp 

Das  solche  grosse  hoffart  trib,  G.  3109. 

Three  similar  instances  but  with  analogical  e  occur  as  follows  : 
verliche  Kal.  212,  12;  verlyhe  G.  2758;  lyhe  G.  3283.  One 
other  instance,  schisz^  Iv.  V.  2712,  completes  the  list  of  excep- 
tions, which,  all  told,  are  but  seven.  In  this  respect  Murner 
differs  considerably  from  Hans  Sachs,  in  whose  writings  the 
newer  form  had  already  won  the  supremacy.  The  subjunctive 
exhibits,  as  is  to  be  expected,  the  vowel  z',  e.  g.  :  er  lidte^  M.  921  ; 
er  ritte  K.  v.  E.  957,  17.  Of  the  plural  the  following  forms 
occur:  sy  griff ent^  G.  4328;  gryffendt  G.  11 61;  sy  vertzigen^ 
G.  900,  33.  In  one  case  the  pret.  plur.  has  erroneously  been 
diphthongized :  si  greiffent^  S.  Z.  883. 

It  remains  but  to  mention  a  few  striking  points  concerning 
individual  verbs  of  this  class.  In  the  first  place  the  rare  verb 
M.  H.  G.  brhen^  N.  H.  G.  breisen^  "  to  lace,"  ^  that  occurs  so 
seldom  after  the  M.  H.  G.  period,  for  instance,  but  once  in  so 
prolific  a  writer  as  Hans  Sachs,  is  found  in  four  instances  in 
Murner : 


^  Quoted,  according  to  Scheible,  Uhl  (137),  without  saying  why,  has  changed 
it  to  verzihen. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  39 

Etiich  so  eng  gebrisen  waren,  N.  6832. 

Ich  nenns  zu  tiitschem  eng  gebrisen,  N.  6840. 

Also  :  ynbrisen,  G.  p.  45,  21  ;  gebrisen,  M.  105. 

According  to  Grimm^  the  verb  died  out  in  the  literary  lan- 
guage early  in  the  17th  century,  having  been  confused  with 
preisen.^  It  is  still  found,  however,  in  the  Bavarian  and  the 
Alemannic  dialects. 

By  the  side  of  the  regular  perf.  part,  of  verleihen^  e.  g.,  ver- 
lihen^  N.  2702,  there  occurs  four  times  a  form  with  ti  : 

Das  man  kindern  in  der  wiegen 

*  5i<  ;1<  If:  ^  :|;  ^  ^ 

Ein  seiches  ampt  verluhen  hat,  N.  2892. 

So  sy  verluhen  werden,  G.  p.  37,  34  ;  geluhen,  N.  6248  ;  ver- 
liihen,  G.  2130. 

According  to  WeinhokP  this  is  caused  by  the  original  labial 
of  the  stem  (Goth,  leihwan,  O.  H.  G.  lihan,  pret.  plu.  liwum), 
which  combined  with  the  vowel  of  the  stem  to  form  the  diph- 
thong iii^  often  contracted  to  ii.  A  similar  contraction  of  io  is 
found  in  the  words  ni'it^  numiner^  nmnmei^fner.  i\s  the  umlaut 
of  ti  was  probably  pronounced  like  i  this  led  to  confusion,  result- 
ing in  such  forms  as  siihe  for  sihe^  S.  Z.  586 ;  s'uht  for  siht^  S.  Z. 
1 244  ;  suhe  ich^  S.  Z.  596,  hardly  to  be  explained  as  a  reminis- 
cence of  the  original  form  (Goth,  saihwan),  and  in  verzeihen^ 
where  no  labial  element  ever  existed,  e,  g.  : 

Ach,  gott,  verziihe,  du  bist  frum,  N.  877. 

It  is  more  than  likely  that  we  have  here  merely  a  false  analogy 
to  the  verbs  of  the  second  series,  e.  g.^  ich  z'uhe  (M.  H.  G.  ziJme). 
This  verb  verzeihcn  shows  also  the  retention  of  the  guttural 
pronunciation  of  h  before  /,  common  to  all  Upper  German 
dialects  : 


1  Grimm,  Deutsches  "Worterbuch  ii,  356. 

^  The  following  instance  of  preisen  shows  the  similarity  in  writing  :  Das  man 
die  wyb  in  eren  briszt,  G.  911,  22. 

^  M,  distinguishes  between  niit  and  nit,  using  the  former  substantively,  the 
latter  as  mere  negation. 


40  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

Gott  verzicht  (verzeiht),  N.  8664. 

Was  zichstu  denn  den  armen  man,  N.  4349. 

In  one  instance  this  is  carried  over  to  the  infinitive  : 

Wes  wok  ein  mensch  verzichen  nit,  N.  8665. 

In  the  perf.  part,  the  grammatical  change  is  also  retained : 

Dasselbig  als  verzigen  ist,  L.  N.  4339. 
Du  hetst  im  als  verzigen  fry,  B.  V.  51. 
Also:  verzigen,  L.  N.  4369;  gezigen,  L.  N.  425. 

Similarly  in  the  pret.  plur. 

Lichtlich  sy  nit  vertzigen  mir,  G.  900,  30. 

By  the  side  of  the  ordinary  form  schricn  (schreien)  occurs 
twice  the  form  schriegcn  in  rhyme  with  fliegcn^  N.  1974;  and 
with  imterlygen^  G.  4225.  This  points  to  the  fact  that^,  when 
medial  between  vowels,  was  pronounced,  as  a  weak  spirant,  a 
fact  which  the  frequent  substitution  of  ^  for  j  or  h  conclusively 
proves;  e.  g.;  kieg  =  kiihe^  S.  Z  500,  787  ;  negen  =  ndhen^  N. 
146 1,  3442;  gehelich  =  jdhlich^  G.  17 13;  gehe  =^  Jdhe^  L.  N. 
2894;  gener  =  jener^  G.  474;  giens  =  j'enes,  N.  1725,  2396, 
etc. 

What  at  first  sight  would  seem  to  be  a  form  of  the  old  verb 
verscJuben^   verscheib;   vrschiben  occurs   once,  in    rhyme   with, 

treiben. 

Ich  lass  mir  mit  so  leicht  verscheiben 

Von  meinem  narrenkolben  treiben.     L.  N.  503. 

It  is,  however,  to  be  considered,  as  already  mentioned  above, 
as  a  careless  writing  of  the  diphthong  ie^  and  the  verbs  are  to  be 
read  verschieben  :  triben. 

The  verb  schleichen  exhibits  one  instance  of  a  weak  form  in 
the  perf.  part.: 

So  eyner  schon  eyn  wyb  ersicht 

Und  ist  mit  ir  alsammen  geschlicht.     G.  2813. 

Schciten^  M.  H.  G.  scliiten^  of  this  class,  which  still  exists 
in  Upper  German,  although  weak,^  occurs  as  follows : 

Wer  ein  holtzlin  scheit,  K.  v.  E.  947,  6;  949,  30;  949,  35. 


1  See  Heyne,  deutsches  Wb.  Ill,  301. 


Daniel  B.  SJuimway.  41 

Speien,  M.  H.  G.  spuwen^  shows  the  change  to  the  21-  class 
(already  spzuiien  in  M.  H.  G.)  characteristic  of  Middle  and  Upper 
German  writers/  e.  g.: 

Spuw  in  die  hend,  Kal.  930,  15. 

That  it  was  already,  at  least  in  part,  conjugated  weak  is  evident 
by  the  following  example  : 

Da  fieng  ich  in  erst  an  beschweren, 

Spuwt  in  mein  hend  und  greift'  in  an.     L.  N.  232, 

M.  H.  G.  wizcn^  of  this  class,  and  iviseii^  weak,  which  in  N. 
H.  G.  have  coincided,  the  weak  verb  having  been  supplanted  by 
the  strong,  are  only  in  part  still  distinguished  by  Murner.  We 
have,  it  is  true,  the  past  part,  often  in  rhyme  with  short  ?",  in 
accordance  with  the  ablaut  laws  of  this  class,  e.  g.: 

Hett  er  den  sack  nit  bald  zerriszen, 

Es  war  im  nimmer  unverwiszen.     N.  1597. 

Verwisseji  (:  beschissen),  L.  N.  2769 ;  462  ;  G.  3920. 

Such  forms,  however,  as  beiuyseii^  K.  v.  E.  963,  27,  are  not 
infrequent.  In  the  pret.  also  we  have  the  strong  form  beweis^ 
weisz  and  verwies?  In  fact,  I  have  been  able  to  find  only  the 
two  following  weak  forms  : 

Ich  hab  grundtlich  beweyset,  K.  v.  E.  917,  21. 
Und  (ich)  wist  dich  usz  der  heilgen  gschrift,  N.  203. 

SECOND   ABLAUT   SERIES. 

M.  H.  G.  ie  (iu)  ou  6— u— o. 

This  class  retains  most  of  the  characteristics  of  the  M.  H.  G. 

conjugation.     This  is  especially  true  of  the  present  tense  sing. 

ind.,  where  the  diphthong  iit  of  the  M.  H.  G.  is  reflected  in  the 

umlauted  u  used  by  Murner,  although  fronted  so  as  to  have  the 

A  few  examples  will  suffice  for  all  : 


^  See  Weinhold,  Al.  Gramm.  S.  326  (5. 

2  See  p.  38. 

^  See  Stirius,  p.  25. 


42  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

Hie  fliigt  das  evvangelische  fan,  L.  N.  2165. 
Sie  kriicht  herfiir,  sitzt  obendran,  N.  5454. 
So  est  siidet,  Gu.  418,  22;  es  triifft,  N.  2475. 

The  first  person,  too,  contains  the  same  vowel,  as  we  should 
expect,  since  did  it  not  until  this  century  give  way  completely 
to  the  vowel  of  the  plural : 

Dem  biit  ich  seiche  grossen  eren,  N.  5874. 

Ich  schmack  und  riich  und  grif  und  tast,  N.  8577. 

Ich  ziih  jung  wolff,  M.  582. 

But  one  exception  to  this  occurs,  so  far  as  I  know,  as  follows  : 

Des  biet  ich  im  trutz  und  recht,  K.  v.  E.  903. 

Likewise  the  imperative ;  but  in  many  cases  it  has  adopted 
the  ending  e  of  the  weak  conjugation,  e.  g.: 

Do  sprach  er:  "fliihe,  ich  bring  den  kiibel,"  S.  Z.  703. 
So  ziihe  den  schelmen  reif  doch  ein,  S.  Z.  1235. 

In  two  cases,  however,  the  it  is  supplanted  by  ie.: 

So  findstu  nun  ein  kleuslin  dinn, 

Die  kriimst  und  biegst  nach  dinem  sinn.     N.  2334. 

Des  biet  ich  im  trutz  und  recht,  K.  v.  E.  903,  8. 

The  subjunctive,  as  is  to  be  expected,  shows  the  ie  of  the 
infinitive. 

Der  ziehe  ins  deufiels  namen  ein 

Den  reif.     S.  Z.  1243. 

Wie  der  luther  ein  engel  sei  und  sein  kunst 

Stieb  uber  berg  und  dal.     B.  S.  341,  6. 

Instead  of  the  monosyllabic  form  of  the  2d  and  3d  sing.  ind. 
pres.,  reflected  also  later  in  the  literary  language  in  the  form 
with  eii^  e.  g.,  er  beut^  scheusst^  etc.,  there  is  found  occasionally 
the  longer,  uncontracted,  M.  H.  G,  form,  e.g.: 

Alles  das  man  biitet  feil,  N.  6279. 

Erbiitest  mir  din  lib  und  leben,  N.  7806,  K.  v.  E.  905,  13;  G.  p. 
44,  20. 


Daniel  B.  Shiunway.  45 

Similarly  :  ersch'usset^  S.  Z.  557  ;  siidet^  Gu.  418,  22  \  genusset^ 
N.  1030 ;  beschluszcsUi^  N.  7805  ;  G.  3715  ;  Jiusset^  Gu.  415,  33  ; 
jiuhet^  Gu.  443,  20 ;  K.  v.  E.  903,  27  ;  verdruszet^  G.  p.  191,  4 ; 
K.  V.  E.  816,  30. 

In  the  case  of  the  longer  forms  of  zieheii^  the  /z,  being  between 
vowels,  retains  the  pronunciation  found  in  the  infinitive  :  du 
ziihest^  K.  V.  E.  915,  28  : 

Der  fiinft  durchziihet  alle  land,  N,  5525. 

Das  man  die  grosz  glock  ziihet  an,  M.  1460;  K.  v.  E.  903,  26; 
927,  II. 

In  the  contracted  forms,  the  proximity  of  the  t  of  the  ending 
changes  it  into  a  spirant. 

Dann  ziicht  sie  das  ab  irem  hals,  N.  1089. 
Darumb  zucht  uszhin  mancherman,  M.  141. 

The  preterite  of  this  class  of  verbs  has  already,  for  the  most 
part,  adopted  the  uniformity  of  the  N.  H.  G.,  the  plural,  as 
well  as  the  singular,  exhibiting  the  vowel  o.  Of  the  verbs 
which  in  M.  H.  G.  formed  their  preterite  sing,  in  02c,  there  occur 
but  two  instances,  both  belonging  to  the  verb  liigen  (M.  H.  G. 

liegen) : 

Vor  ziten  loug  man  durch  ein  bret,  N.  738. 
Wie  du  vorlougst  dem  Cantzler  fiir, 
Jetz  liigstu  erst  jm  ouch  von  mir.     G.  3742. 
Of  the  o  forms,  a  number  of  examples  occur,  as  follows  :  Jlosz^ 
B.  xxxi,  41;  Gu.  409,  22;  24;   verschloff^  L.  N.  193;  erbotstii^ 
B.  V.   44  ;  bod^  G.   102  ;  gosz^  B.   xix.   13  ;  xxxi.  42  ;  fioch^  G. 
3402,  4336 ;   zoch,  N.   572 ;    G.  4337  ;  sog,  K.   v.  E.   901,  30 ; 
verdrosz^  S.  Z.  702. 

That  the  final  guttural  could  not  have  been  pronounced  with 
much  force  is  proved  by  the  following  rhyme  :  zoh  :  do^  G.  2694. 
The  pret.  subj.  still  retains  the  old  vowel  of  the  plural : 

Warum  fliihe  nit  ein  arme  lus 

Und  lief  zum  hemde  nit  hinusz  ?     N.  3524, 

Das  ich  verlur,  N.  1553. 

Er  schwitzt  als  triiff  ein  nasser  schoup,  B.  xxxiii,  28. 

erschilsse^  Gu.  424,  39;  verbi'itte^  Gu.  447,  30 ;  y?«j^^,  M.  815. 


44  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

In  the  case  of  siehcn  the  grammatical  change  is  still  pre- 
served : 

Das  er  abziig  sein  altes  kleidt,  B.  vii.  23, 
Ich  ziig  min  keppHn  nimmer  ab,  N.  5871. 

The  verbs  li'igen  and  beiriigen  still  show  the  original  vowel  in 
the  inf.  and  plur.  pres.  : 

Was  wir  nit  wissen  liegen  wir,  S.  Z.  466. 
Dam  it  ir  trossen  uber  land 
Und  liegt,  was  ir  gesagt  hand.     L.  N.  2092. 
Den  frummen  herren  bald  betriegen,  N.  1362. 

The  verb  schliefen^  now  almost  obsolete  except  in  the  Upper 
German  dialects,  having  been  supplanted  by  the  closely-related 
schliipfeii  occurs,  several  times  in  the  present  stem,  e.  g.:  schlieffen^ 
L.  N.  271 1 ;  schlieffen^  L-  N,  2949  ;  pres.  schliefeii^  N.  8607,  8612  ; 
schlieff  {s,ViQ\^^  L.  N.  2947;  imp.  schlieff^  L.  N.  2945;  schliift^  B. 
vii.  19. 

I  have  noted  but  one  occurrence  each  of  the  pret.  and  the 
the  perf.  part.: 

Ja  wol  (ich)  verschloff  mich  bald  beseitz,  L.  N.  193. 
Und  gantz  und  gar  darein  geschloffen,  B.  xxxii.  45. 

The  verb  kiesen  is  found  but  once  in  the  present  tense  : 

Die  man  zuo  prelaten  kiesset  hie,  M.  879. 

and  once  in  the  perf.  part.: 

Wie  wol  sie  mich  hon  uszerkoren,  L.  N.  1966. 

By  the  side  of  these  there  is  found  one  instance  of  the  related 
verb  kore7i  : 

Wann  man  wolt  ein  herren  koren,  N.  6393. 

Verliere7i  and  frieren  have  lost  the  grammatical  change,  r 
being  found  in  the  pres.  and  pret.  sing.,  as  well  as  in  the  other 
parts,  e.  g.:  verlurt^  S.  Z.  849 ;  N.  2507  ;  verlorc^  Gu.  410,  28  ; 
erfrieren^  L.  N.  246 ;  der  pur  erfriirt^  N.  2504. 

Saiiffen  and  saugen  still  retain  the  vowel  ft  of  the  M.  H.  G. 
(occasionally  perhaps  shortened),  as  indeed  the  new  diphthong 


Daniel  B.  Shtimway.  45 

ail  occurs  only  sporadically,  even  in  the  prints  where  ei  pre- 
dominates over  t.  Of  the  two  rhymes  with  the  diphthong 
an  given  by  Stirius/  becksauw  :  murmauzv^  L.  N.  3808,  and 
getrauwen  :  stauwen^  L.  N.  449;  486,  the  former  is  to  be  ascribed 
to  the  new  norm,  the  latter  to  be  explained  by  the  M.  H.  G. 
forms  gedroiiwen  :  stbuwen'} 

For  saiigen  examples  are  wanting,  but  can  be  assumed  with 
certainty  from  the  following  occurrences  of  saiiffen  :  sufeii^  N. 
5005  ;  er  siift,  N.  1967  ;  Gu.  457,  33  ;  die  suffen,  Gu,  457,  36. 

The  pret.  plural  of  the  verbs  of  this  class  exhibits,  as  a  rule, 
the  vowel  o :  si  krochen^  B.  xxx.  9 ;  G.  4955  ;  si  betrogen^  G. 
1 151 ;  erfroren^  B.  34,  11;  den  geboten  ir,  G.  4326 ;  fiossen^  Gu. 
482,  35  ;    aberlogen^  G.  1150. 

In  two  cases,  however,  we  have  still  the  retention  of  the  origi- 
nal vowel  u  : 

Dass  all  ir  siinden  flussendt  ab,  B.  xix.  22. 
Wie  die  zwen  umb  wet  lugen,  K.  v.  E.  984,  3. 

THIRD   ABLAUT   SERIES. 
M.  H.  G.  i  (e)  a— u— u  (o). 

The  numerous  verbs  of  this  class  are  well  represented  in 
Murner's  writings  and  show  many  deviations  from  the  M.  H.  .G. 
standard,  especially  in  the  preterite,  where  the  vowel  of  the 
plural  has  already  been  given  up  in  favor  of  that  of  the  singu- 
lar. Lauchert  mentions  the  form  sangend  (G.  p.  162,  20).  In 
addition,  I  have  noticed  the  following  occurrences  :  gezuan- 
iien,  N,  2532;  entpfanden,  Gu.  411,  24;  halffen,  B.  xxix.  60; 
geschwalent^  Gu.  409,  23  ;  schwanden^  Gu.  484,  31  ;  warben^  G. 
351  ;  ir  wardt^  G.  1063  ;  wardendi^  B.  xvii,  38 ;  B.  xxvi,  54  ; 
wardent^  G.  1856  ;  B,  xvii,  38 ;  xxvi,  54 ;  xxxii,  29 ;  wardens, 
G.  411  ;  warden,  Gu.  409,  26;  412,  26,  7  ;  436,  30;  K.  v.  E., 
950,  Zl ;  975)  25 ;  zwangendt,  G.  2528. 


'  Stirius,  Die  Sprache    Thomas  Murner's,  p.  26,  2. 

2  Cf.  Balke's  edition,  p.  30.     D.  V.  L.,  Bd.  17,  zweite  Abtheilung. 


46  The   Verb  i/i   Thomas  Manner. 

There  occur,  however,  two  instances  of  the  older  vowel,  as 
follows:  etlich  sturben.^  Gu.  411,  26;  si  nmrdent  vor  von  mir 
verlacht,  G.  '^'i,- 

In  one  case  the  latter  verb  occurs  with  the  vowel  o :  si  wor- 
dejtt^  B.  xxi.  44. 

As  far  as  I  know,  no  instance  of  the  sing,  with  the  vowel  of 
the  plural  is  to  be  found.  The  form  zmirdt^  occurring,  for 
example,  S.  Z.  296  ;  1453  ;  1497  ;  G.  1932,  admits  in  every  case 
of  being  construed  either  as  subj.  or  pres.  ind.  Forms  with  ii 
or  //  are  common  when  the  labial  za  precedes  the  vowel,  e.  g.: 

Und  wiirst  ufif  erden  nym  so  kalt,  B.  iii,  46. 
The  form  (er)   zaurt  occurs  repeatedly,  e.  g. :  L.  N.  83,  428, 
630,  913)  etc. 

Likewise  with  the  verbs  zverfen  and  zverbeii,  e.  g.: 
Und  wiirft  do  helm  die  bletter  um,  N.  3085. 
Wenn  um  si  wiirbet  mancher  mann,  S.  Z.  1264. 
Murner  differs  materially  in  this  respect  from  Hans  Sachs,  in 
whose  writings  ?/-  forms  in  the  sing.  pret.  are  almost  as  frequent 
as  those  with  a} 

In  the  subj.  pret.  the  vowel  u  predominates  in  the  sing,  as 
well  as  in  the  plural,  e.  g.  : 

Das  nun  verdiirbe  iedermann,  N.  4614. 

Das  er  verwiirre  iederman,  N.  1874. 

Und  siingest  ir  das  ganze  jor,  N.  2450. 

Kem  keiser  Julius  noch  ein  mol 

Und  fund  uns  alle  stunden  veil, 

Verden  blut  !  was  wiird  er  sagen?  N.  4771. 

Damit  sie  sclten  predig  fiinden,  N.  22SS. 

Das  sie  behiilffen  sich  darusz,  L.  N.  2984;  N.  8320. 

Sie  sturbent,  wann  sie  lang  inn  legen.  N,  5163;    Gu.  409,  35. 
In  one  instance,  however,  the  subj.  occurs  with  the  vowel  of 
the  sing.,  as  follows  : 

Wann  es  leit  bar  gelt  dar  neben, 

Er  fand  villicht  ouch  vil  der  knecht,  N.  5892. 

^  Cf.  the  verbs  of  this  class  in  my  article  Das  ablautendc  Verbum  bei  Hans 
Sadis,  pp.  60-86. 


Daniel  B.  SJmmway.  47 

Further  occurrences  of  the  pret.  sing,  are  as  follows  :  drank^ 
N.  765  ;  schwamm^  N.  3821  ;  Gu.  412,  23  ;  span,  G.  3298 ;  stanch, 
Gu.  409,  26  ;  zivang,  M.  344 ;  S.  Z.  50 ;  Gu.  408,  38  ;  {^^half, 
N.  6453  ;  S.  Z.  30  ;  vergalt,  G.  3480,  3533  ;  schalt,  S.  Z.  92  ;  K. 
V.  E.  906,  17  ;  geschwal,  Gu.  411,  24  ;  484,  28  ;  verzvarf,  N.  7835  ; 
waj^d,  S.  Z.  1454;  G.  1941 ;  gewann,  N.  5399;  zvarb,  G.  4970; 
zeran,  G.  196;  zvandt,  G.  164,  6. 

The  dissylabic  form  of  the  pret.  sing,  with  analogical  e  occurs 

but  once : 

Es  ist,  bi  aid,  verloren  mie, 
Die  kein  hu°ter  halfe  nie,  N.  6691. 
Passing  over  to  the  pres.  kid.,  we  find  that  the  verbs  having  e 
followed  by  r  or  /  in  the  inf.  still  retain  in  the  ist  sing,  the 
vowel  i  of  the  M.  H.  G.  A  few  examples  will  suffice  for  all : 
ich  schilt,  N.  3227  ;  Gu.  441,  22  ;  ich  stirb,  h.  N.  2552  ;  ich  ze'i'rd, 
B.  XXX,  56  : 

Wenn  ich  uch  das  dann  wider  gilt, 

Mit  bosen  worten  wider  schilt.     N.  215. 

Als  das  ich  isz,  das  wirf  ich  hin,  N.  8199. 

In  the  case  of  the  verb  werben,  the  form  with  u  occurs : 
Doch  wiltu  geben  driszig  gulden, 
Erwiirb  ich  dir  des  bischofs  hulden 
Und  lasz  iich  bliben  allesant 
Recht,  wie  ir  das  gewonet  hant.     N.  3327. 

This  is,  however,  the  general  form  of  the  vowel  in  the  verbs 
zjoerben  and  zverfen} 

In  the  case  of  the  verb  sterbeti,  where  the  following  instance 
with  u  occurs  : 

Wann  er  das  gu°t  schon  zamen  bringt 
Und  sind  kin  hoch  ufhin  ringt, 
So  stiirbet  im  der  halbe  teil.     N.  4808. 
it  is  probably  due  to  the  similarity  of  its  sound  to  zverben. 

In  inelken,  the  weak  form  has  already  supplanted  the  strong 
in  the  present  case  to-day,  e.  g.  : 

Wer  mir  freundlich  melkt  ein  or,  S.  Z.  550. 

*  See  p.  46. 


48  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Maimer. 

The  perf.  part,  is,  however,  strong : 

Der  so  vil  drutz  ermolken  hat,  N.  7937. 

The  preterite,  so  far  as  I  know,  does  not  occur. 

Murner  has,  in  the  perf.  part,  of  all  verbs  with  the  infinitive 
in  z',  the  vowel  u.  like  the  M.  H.  G.  The  change  to  o  before 
unprotected  nasals,  that  made  its  appearance  first  in  Midland 
Germany,  and  gradually  drove  out  the  original  vowel  from  the 
literary  language  occurred  much  later.  It  has  not  even  to-day 
affected  the  dialect  of  Alsatia\  Accordingly,  by  the  side  of 
.  forms  Y^ke,  gewiniden^  G.  164,  7,  and.  geschzmdejt^  N.  1491,  3207, 
we  have  also  serimnen^  L.  N.  1892  ;  besiinjte?i^  S.  Z.  406,  476  ; 
gespunnen.,  L-  N.  4224;  M.  162;  geschwummen^  N.  3781,  and 
e?itrti?inen^  L.  N.  2 161. 

Two  instances  of  u  before  rr  where  both  M.  H.  G.  and  N.  H. 
G.  agree  in  having  ^,  are  found  in  the  verb  verwerren  (N.  H.  G. 
verwirren^ 

Als  verwurren,  wider  rechten,  L.  N.  4106  ;  verwurrens,  B. 
xxix,  15. 

This  form  occurs,  however,  sporadically,  even  in  the  M.  H.  G. 
period.^     The  only  other  form  of  the  verb  occurring  : 

Das  er  verwiirre  iederman,  N.  1874, 
proves  that  it  was  still  strong  in  all  parts. 

Passing  over  to  the  consideration  of  individiial  peculiarities, 
we  find,  in  the  first  place,  that  Murner  still  uses  the  weak  pret- 
erite of  begi7iiie7i  common  to  M.  H.  G.  writers.  I  have  noted, 
however,  only  the  following  instance  : 

Do  von  gott  nam  denselben  grund, 

Als  er  Adam  zu"  schaffen  bgunt.     N.  362. 

The  causal  relation  in  which  brennen  originally  stood  to  brin- 
ncn  is  no  longer  consistently  observed,  as  the  following  instances 

show : 

Und  lesch  nit,  wenn  es  schon  will  brennen,  N.  2236, 
Wie  lang  das  fur  noch  brennen  werd,  N.  4661, 

1  Cf.  Heimburger,  Beit.,  xii.  223. 

*  See  Lexer,  mhd.  Handzvorierbuch ,  Bd.  iii.  304. 


Daniel  B.  SJmmway.  49 

where  the  causative  is  used  with  the  meaning  of  the  strong  verb 
brinnen.  To  my  knowledge  there  occur,  in  the  texts  examined 
but  six  instances  of  the  latter,  three  in  the  present  tense,  all  in 
rhyme : 

So  es  in  erberkeiten  brint  (iziint),  B.  iii,  34  ;  B.  xix,  20. 
Das  dein  hertz  in  lieben  brindt  (:  entpfindt),  B.  xvii,  3  ; 

further,  the  present  participle:  brynnende  Liebe,  G.  p.  42,  i2  ; 
and  one  case  of  the  pret.  sing. : 

Mancher  zindt  eim  feurli  an, 

Das  on  sein  zinden  selber  bran,  S.  Z.  763  ; 

and  lastly,  the  following  instance  of  the  past  part.  :  verbrunnen 
(:  entrunnen),  G.  3898. 

The  originally  strong  verb  hinken^  since  the  seventeenth 
century  conjugated  only  weak,  occurs  once  in  the  perf.  part.: 

Die  cristenheit  hat  nie  gehuncken.     L.  N.  2422. 

Dingen^  that,  since  the  seventeenth  century  —  influenced 
probably  by  the  Dutch  forms  dong^  gedojigen — has  joined  the 
ranks  of  the  strong  verbs  of  this  class,  occurs  in  Murner  only 
weak,  as  in  M.  H.  G.,  e.  g.: 

Ich  dingt,  N.  2025  ;  do  ich  sie  dingt,  N.  2029. 
Hon  sie  geschworen,  dinget  ein,  L.  N.  2842. 

The  isolated  instance  of  the  verb  helfen  : 

Dann  woltstu  dich  umkeren  gem 

So  helft  es  nimm,  N.  5 115, 
is  to  be  construed  as  present  tense  with  irregular  (but  for  S.  G. 
quite  frequent)  breaking,  and  is  not  to  be  considered  a  weak 
form. 

FOURTH  ABLAUT  SERIES. 
M.  H.  G.  e  (i)— a— a— o  (u). 

The  verbs  of  this  class  have  undergone  but  few  changes  from 
M.  H.  G.  to  N.  H.  G.,  and  offer,  therefore,  but  few  peculiarities 
in  the  transition  period.  As  in  the  case  of  the  verbs  of  the 
third  series,  the  older  i  of  the  M.  H.  G.  has  been  retained  in  the 
sing,  pres.,  e.  g.: 


50  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Mitrner. 

Sie  bricht  hefen,  so  brich  ich  krieg,  N.  8556. 

Das  nim  ich  usz  dem  dintenfasz,  N.  2470. 

Ich  lu^g,  das  ich  min  find  erstich,  N.  7541. 

Ich  triff  man,  wib  und  ir  kinder,  N.  2329  ;  M.  591. 

One  instance,  however,  with  the  vowel  e  occurs  in  rhyme : 

Verstand  das  wol,  als  ichs  vernem  (:  kem),  N.  1190. 
The  vowel  u  in  the  perf.  part,  is  likewise  retained  before 
unprotected  nasal, ^  e.  g.\ 

Und  het  sein  lere  bu°ch  mit  genummen,  S.  Z.  419. 
Ich  sihe  wol,  das  ich  recht  bin  kumen,  L.  N.  1086. 

The  pret.  plural  occurs  but  a  few  times,  as  follows  :  kamendt^ 
G.  4788  ;  5002  ;  namen^  N.  2862  ;  5791  ;  B.  xixv.  4  ;  nament^  N. 
8037;  G.  4315;  subj.  uberkeme7t^  N.  2527;  kemciit^  N.  2811  ; 
zerbrachen^  G.  2926. 

In  one  case  it  occurs  with  the  vowel  o  in  rhyme  with  a  verb 
of  the  second  class  : 

Das  lebendige  wirme  krochen 

Usz  seim  Leib  heruszen  stochen,  B.  xxx.  10. 

Passing  over  to  the  individual  verbs,  we  find  that  M.  H.  G. 
bevelhen^  whose  change  to  the  modern  form  befchlen^  with  long 
^,  occurred  in  some  districts  as  early  as  the  close  of  the  fifteenth 
century,  still  retains  in  Murner  the  original  spelling,  as  its  occur- 
rences show :  er  bevilcht^  B.  S.  342,  7  ;  K.  v.  E.,  960,  38 ;  er 
benilhet^  K.  v.  E.  906,  6  ;  945,  4  ;  957,  26 ;  bevelhen  (inf.),  N. 
319 ;  bevolhen^  S.  Z.  460 ;  1035  ;  N.  2168 ;  be/olhen^  L.  N.  2747  ; 
beuelhen  (pres.)  K,  v.  E.  939,  4. 

At  the  same  time  the  following  rhymes  prove  conclusively 
that  h  was  no  longer  pronounced  as  a  spirant  in  the  perf.  part. . 

empfolhen :  gestolen,  L.  N.  2382  ;  2444, 
beuolhen :  unuerholen,  L.  N.  4724. 

Of  the  strong  verb  {ver)hchlcn^  that  to-day  is  represented  only 
by  the  participial  adjective  unverhohlen^  there  occurs  but  one 
preterite  form,  and  this  exhibits  the  weak  conjugation : 
So  ich  verhelet  in  niein  kunst,  B.  xxxiv,  83. 

'  For  exceptions  to  this  rule,  see  the  respective  verbs. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  51 

In  this  respect  Miirner  differs  from  Hans  Sachs,  whose  writ- 
ings contains  several  instances  of  the  strong  preterite  verhalen} 

The  perf.  part,  is  still  strong : 
Die  selbig  tat  ist  noch  verholen  (:gestoIen),  N.  6187  ;  verholen, 
G.  1949. 

Although,  as  a  rule,  this  form  rhymes  with  long  closed  ^,  as 
above,  one  case  occurs  in  which  it  rhymes  with  short,  open  0  ; 
the  spelling  also  conforming  to  this : 

Ich  bin  vergebens  nit  geschwollen  ; 

Vil  narren  haben  in  mich  gehoUen,  L.  N.  336. 

Komme7i  has,  in  the  inf.  and  past  part.,  as  mentioned  above, 
the  vowel  21.  Three  sporadic  cases  of  o  occur  in  the  inf.,  and 
five  in  the  past  part.,  as  follows :  Inf.  kommen^  N.  2928 ;  8027  ; 
B.  ix.  28;  past  part,  ko^nmen^  N.  1913  ;  4572  ;  4568;  B.  xxxii. 
48 ;  Kal.  234,  10.  To  these  must  be  added  an  instance  of  the 
instance  of  the  inf.  with  the  diphthong  tio  :  kuonmieii^  M.  70. 

In  the  various  persons  of  the  present  tense  the  vowel  u  like- 
wise predominates.  The  exceptions  are,  however,  much  more 
numerous.  The  proportions  are  as  follows  :  ist  sing.,  only  u 
forms.  In  2d  sing.,  two  o  forms,  N.  3026  ;  3206.  In  3d  sing., 
117  7/  forms  to  31  with  o.  In  ist  and  3d  plur.,  taken  together, 
53  tt  forms  to  5  with  o,  N.  2283  ;  3783  ;  4455  ;  B.  xix.  45 ;  M. 
1251 ;  2d  plur.,  12  u  forms  to  5  with  o^  N.  2514;  3209;  3712  ; 
7462  ;  B.  xxxiii.  68. 

The  following  cases  show  assimilation  of  ni  to  the  t  of  the 
ending,  becoming  «  .•  kunt  (:  bund),  S.  Z.  46  ;  kimt  (:  fund),  N. 
1870.  I  have  noted  but  these  two  instances,  which,  most  prob- 
ably, are  due  to  the  rhyme.  One  instance,  which,  if  not  a  mis- 
print, illustrates  the  tendency  of  final  m  to  weaken  to  ;/,  occurs 
as  follows : 

Und  der  Turk  kun  (komm)  iiber  mere,  S.  Z.  1059. 

A  sporadic  instance  with  the  spelling  km^  evidently  due  to 
the  rhyme,  occurs  as  follows  : 

Das  er  darnach  mit  odeni  sin 
Widerumb  geladen  kin.     B.  X,  19. 

^  See  the  above-mentioned  article,  p.  98. 


52  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

The  usual  form  of  the  preterite  exhibits  the  vowel  a.  One 
instance,  however,  occurs  with  o :  si  komen^  B.  xxxi.  43  ;  in 
rhyme  with  nomen  (namen). 

Nehme7i^  like  kommeii^  exhibits  a  few  exceptions  to  the  rule 
of  n  before  a  double  nasal.  The  following  are  found  :  geito?ne7i^ 
B.  ix.  27  ;  K.  V.  E.  958,  13  ;  vernommen^  B.  xxix  24 ;  B.  xxxii 
48.  These  are  all  found  with  one  exception  in  B.,  and  in 
rhyme  with  similar  forms  of  koinmen^  and  are  evidently  due  to 
the  printer.  In  fact,  in  one  instance  we  have  the  rhyme  genom- 
7nen:  kumme?i^  B.  xix  41. 

Scheren^  now  often  conjugated  in  the  present  tense  accord- 
ing to  the  weak  conjugation,  is  still  strong  in  Murner : 

Ists  nit  war,  so  beschir  mich  gar,  N.  357, 
Schierestu  in,  so  geb  er  me,  N.  3431. 

The  preterite  does  not  occur.  The  perf.  part,  is  gcschoren^  as 
still  to-day,  e.  g.: 

beschoren,  N.  3339,  6263  ;  L.  N.  895. 
geschoren,  N.  1678;  G.  323;  M.  397. 

Rixchen^  that,  with  the  exception  of  the  somewhat  obsoles- 
cent participle  gerochen^  has  gone  over  to  the  weak  conjugation, 
is  in  Murner  still  entirely  strong,  and  with  the  original  vowel  e 
in  the  infinitive.  The  following  forms  occur  :  rechen  (inf.),  S.  Z. 
1007  ;  N.  2747. 

An  mir  armen  man  dich  richst  (:  gestichst),  N.  2324. 

As  the  perf.  part,  is  of  frequent  occurrence,  a  few  examples 
will  serve  for  all. 

gerochen,  N.  1209;  8550;  L.  N.  4151;  ungerochen,  S.  Z.  1065. 

An  interesting  adjective,  Hchig^  with  the  meaning  "  venge- 
ful" also  occurs,  as  follows  : 

Wie  das  die  heiligen  richig  sind,  N.  3583, 

Its  formation  is  similar  to  that  of  the  M.  H.  G.  richlich^  with 
the  same  meaning,  also  found  in  Murner,  e.g.:  G.  136;  3097. 
I  have,  however,  been  imable  to  find  any  trace  of  it  except  in 
this  passage. 

The  originally  weak  verb  stecken,  that,  since  the  fifteenth 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  53 

century,  has  formed  strong  preterite  forms,  in  analogy  to  stechen^ 
exhibits  in  Murner  both  forms,  side  by  side.  The  following 
strong  forms  occur:  stak^  N.  3944;  staken^  N.  2621;  stekent 
(subj.),  N.  7443  ;  L.  N.  2725  on  the  one  hand;  and  the  follow- 
ing weak  forms,  stekt^  G.  2700  ;  3483 ;  steket^  G.  2693  on  the 
other.  In  addition  to  these  are  found  two  forms  with  ch  instead 
of  k^  without  doubt  influenced  by  the  rhyme, — 

Der  fund  ist  auch  kurzlich  erdacht, 

Ich  wolt,  das  er  im  bu°ch  dinn  stacht.     N.  3384, 

Und  wer  in  wider  herfiir  brecht, 

Das  er  bei  im  da  unden  stecht.     L.  N.  1131. 

The  verbs  fechten  and  Jiechten  have  developed  weak  forms, 
which  occur  with  greater  frequency  than  the  strong  ones. 
Weinhold  ^  speaks  of  an  irregular  breaking  occurring  in  later 
times  and  opposed  to  the  whole  trend  of  the  Alemanic,  and 
instances  the  present  form  erfecht^  in  rhyme  with  knecht. 

In  view  of  the  weak  perf.  part,  occurring  in  Murner,  it  might 
be  just  as  well  to  speak  of  the  phenomenon  as  a  weak  form. 
The  only  two  instances  of  a  preterite  form  occurring  are  strong, 
and  exhibit  the  original  vowel  a  of  the  M.  H.  G.: 

Der  das  allein  in  der  schulen  mit  dir  fachte,  K.  v.  E.  934,  13. 
Es  ist  das  holz  darum  got  facht,  B.  xxvii.  27. 

The  following  instances  of  the  pres.  sing,  occur  : 
Fechten^  Pres : 

1.  Strong  forms. 

Noch  ficht  er  nach  der  kutten  hart,  N.  2712. 
Ob  sie  schon  niemand  fichtet  an,  N.  940, 

Dz  ich  eben  das   anfichte,  K.  v.  E.  926,  25  ;  928,  34  ;  968,  15  ; 
Er  ficht,  G.  4534;  K.  v.   E.  951,   20;  er  widerfichtet,   K.  v.   E. 
923,  II  ;  sie  anficht,  M.  888. 

2.  Weak  forms. 

Ich  bin  der  eisen  beisser  knecht, 
Der  weit  und  breit  grosz  lob  erfecht,  S.  Z.  232. 
Fecht   (:   recht),    N.    1428;    2144,    3607;    B.    xxvii,    22;    fecht 
(:  schlecht);  G.  1370;  fecht  (:  knecht),  N.  28846937,  M.  934. 

^  Al.  Gramm.,  §  341. 


54  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Alurner, 

Oi  fiechten  in  the  present  tense  there  occurs  only  one  strong 
form  : 

Dar  zuo  fliecht  got  ein  stroin  bart,  M.  35. 

The  following  weak  forms  are  found  : 

Man  flecht  ein  bart  iezund  usz  stro,  S.  Z.  284. 

Der  selb  ein  stroen  bart  gott  flecht  (:  recht),  N.  1276. 

The  Inf.  forms  may  be  passed  over  as  shedding  no  light  upon 
the  question. 

The  forms  of  the  Perf.  part  are  as  follows  : 
Fechten. 

1.  Strong. 

Wie  sie  unit  Schwitzern  gfochten  hant,  N.  706. 
Das  heiszt  die  narrenkapp  erfochten  (:  geflochten),  N.  1377. 
Gefochten  Gu.  456,  25  ;  angefochten  Kal.  204,  23. 
Widerfochten  Kal.  214,  9;  K.  v.  E.  974,  28;  gfochten  G.  271 ;  4318. 

2.  Weak. 

Und  mit  der  federn  hont  erfecht  (:  recht),  N.  2533. 

Fiechten. 

1.  Strong. 

Und  gott  ein  stroen  bart  geflochten  (:  gefochten),  N.  1378. 
Gebifft,  geflochten  wider  krum,  N.  8622, 
Geflochten  (:  gefochten),  G.  272. 

2.  Weak. 

Geflecht(:  recht),  S.  Z.  274;  geflecht  (:  fecht),  N.  1308. 

It  is  certainly  not  without  significance  that  with  but  one 
exception  the  weak  forms  ocnur  only  in  rhyme,  and  that  the 
strong  forms  occur  but  once  in  that  position.  It  would  seem  as 
if  the  difiSculty  of  finding  a  rhyme  for  the  strong  forms,  the 
only  rhyme  being  the  corresponding  form  of  the  other  verb,  /.  e. 
gefochten  with  gefiochten  had  influenced  Murner  in  his  choice 
of  forms. 


Daniel  B.  Shunnvay.  55 

FIFTH    ABLAUT    SERIES. 
M.  H.  G. : — e — a — a — e. 

Here  likewise,  as  in  the  case  of  the  two  preceding  classes,  we 
find  still  the  unbroken  vowel  in  the  i.  Sing.  Pres. 

Als,  das  ich  isz,  das  wirf  ich  hin,  N.  8199. 

Ich  lis  und  habs  ouch  oft  ergrindt,  N.  6714. 

So  sprich  ich,  M,  1236  ;  1143  ;  ich  ermisz,  K.  v.E.  978,  19, 

Uch  trit,  N.  4463  ;  ich  wig,  N.  3391. 

Passing  over  to  individual  peculiarities,  we  find  that  the 
verb  pflegen  (which  was  originally  of  this  class,  but  has  now 
gone  over  entirely  to  the  fourth  class),  when  conjugated  strong 
shows  already  signs  of  this  change  in  the  one  occurence  of  the 
perf.  part  that  I  have  been  able  to  find  : 

Wie  dich  kont  ir  das  recht  verzogen, 

Das  nun  das  urteil  wiirt  gepflogen,  N.  2362. 

In  this  respect  Murners  differs  materially  from  Hans  Sachs, 
who  makes  use  only  of  the  older  form  gcpjlegen. 

These  three  instances  of  the  preterite,  however,  exhibit  the 
vowel  in  its  original  purity. 

Als  er  pflag  zu  essen,  Gu.  421,  23. 
Wie  er  pflage  zu  sein,  Gu.  424,  32. 
Die  leyen  pflagen  das  sacrament  zu  niessen,  K.  v,  E.  922,  33. 

Similarly,  the  one  instance  of  the  pres.  tense  : 

Der  sich  verwurrens  hie  verpfligt,  B.  xxix,  15. 

Gebcii  and  Licgen  show  numerous  instances  of  the  forms  git 
and  lit — common  to  M.  H.  G.  writers,  e.  g. ; 

Noch  git  die  gschrift  den  underricht,  N.  189. 
Darauf  ein  ander  gar  weich  lit,  N.  1935. 

In  some  cases  the  rhyme  points  to  the  shortening  of  the 
vowel  common  in  the  alemanic  dialect. 

Und  lauft  behend,  so  man  im  git ; 

On  gaben  gieng  es  nit  ein  tritt,  N.  4232  ;  6795,  etc. 


'  See  above  mentioned  article  p.  105. 


56  The   Verb  hi   Thomas  Murner. 

In  the  following  six  cases  git  has  been  diphthongized  to  geit  : 
S.  Z.  347;  L.  N.  510;  2832;  3100;  4792;  G.  2026.  This  is 
most  probably  due  to  the  printer,  as,  with  one  exception,  geit : 
billicheit^  L.  N.  4792,  it  rhymes  with  <?z  (M.  H.  G.  z),  or  with  eii 
(M.  H.  G.  iu).  The  rhyme  geit  :  7neit^  L.  N.  510,  need  not  be 
considered  an  exception,  there  being  an  Alemannic  form  mit 
by  the  side  of  the  more  usual  yneit  of  other  dialects.'  The  full 
form  gibt  predominates  considerably  over  the  contracted  form. 
The  proportion  is  116  instances  oi  gibt  to  32  of  ^zVand  6  oi  geit 
(together  38).  Similarly,  12  oi  gibst  to  one  oi  gist  (K.  v.  E.  30). 

A  much  more  striking  contraction,  with  resulting  syncopa- 
tion of  b  is  found  in  inf.,  pres.,  perf.  part,  and  imp.  forms.  The 
following  instances  occur  :  Inf.  gen^  S.  Z.  525  ;  N.  5461  ;  7020 ; 
81 16;  G.  1047;  1355- 

Pres.  : 

Und  fragt:   "  Wir  gent  ir  mir  die  fisch,"  N.  4439. 
Noch  gend  wir  got  die  schuld,  Gu.  760,  34. 

gend,    L.  N.    32C0;  N.  735;  1084;    2729;  6300;  7339;  7862;  G. 
701;  1 121;  4692;  gen,  L.  N.  2980. 

Perf.  part.: 

Die  mir  hat  ingen  dissen  list,  G.  556;  L.  N.  4294. 
Imp.  : 

Schenkt  mir  das,  herr,  gent  mir  me,  N.  1642;  4293. 
The  rhymes  gent  :  sacrament,  N.  4439,  and  gend  :  wend,  L. 
N.  3200,  would  seem  to  show  that  the  originally  long  vowel  of 
the  contraction  had  been  shortened.     This  contraction  is  found 
also  in  other  Alemanic  writers.^ 

The  proportion  of  fuller  to  syncopated  forms  is  as  follows  : 
ist  plur.,  4  geben  to  i  gent ;  2d  plur.,  4  gebt  and  3  gebe-a  to  3 
gent ;  3d  plur.,  2)^  gebettt  {ox  gebeii)  to  13  oi  gent  {or  gen). 

Erliegen  in  one  case  shows  the  peculiar  form  erleyefi,  in 
rhyme  with  dreyen  : 

Dan  fil  verderben  in  den  dreyen 

Ee  das  sie  vor  dem  dodt  erleyen.     B.  xiii,  63. 

1  See  Grimm,  D.  JVd.,  vi,  198S. 
=  Cf.  Weinhold,  At.  Gr.,  §  38. 


Daniel  B.  SInunway.  57 

This  is  due  without  doubt  to  the  printer,  who  mechanically 
changed  Murner's  dryen  :  erlyen  (for  erlige7i)^  in  accordance  with 
the  new  norm,  into  drey 01  :  erleyen  without  stopping  to  think 
that  the  cases  were  not  parallel/ 

Geschehen  and  sehen  retain,  in  accordance  with  the  upper 
German  dialects,  the  older  pronunciation  of  h  as  ch  before  /,  and 
when  final,  e.  g.: 

So  bald  der  erste  streich  geschicht, 
Einer  streich  tet  er  die  nicht.     N.  5952. 
Und  wirt  ein  klegliches,  arms  gesicht, 
So  spricht  man  das  ir  recht  geschicht.     N.  7169. 
Das  geschach  usz  geldes  kraft,  N.  795. 
Sehen  ; 

Und  wen  mans  bei  dem  liecht  besicht  (:  nicht),  S.  Z.  1035. 
Du  sichst  wol,  das  ich  frintlich  mein,  N.  2077. 
Sie  meint  sie  sech  das  himelrich,  N.  1980. 
Do  ich  die  sach  bim  liecht  besach  (:  sprach),  N.  6449. 
sach  :  sprach,  L.  N.  225;  ubersach  :  brach,  B.  xxvii.  42  ;  sachstu, 
N.  925;  so  sech  ich,  N.  6320. 

In  the  dissylabic  forms  of  the  pret.  sing,  with  analogical  ^, 
the  h  is,  as  to-day,  a  mere  breath,  being  between  vowels.  One 
case  occurs  in  which  it  has  been  dropped,  unless  it  is  to  be  con- 
sidered a  mere  misprint : 

So  geschicht  im  als  och  Adam  geschae  (:  sahe),  B.  viii,  20. 

In  the  ist  pers.  sing,  pres.,  when  the  final  e  is  retained,  we 
have  the  spelling  //,  otherwise  ch^  e.  g.:  Ich  sihe  wol,  L,.  N.  1086, 
2235,  etc,  (in  all  11  times) ;  but  Ich  sich  wol,  N,  6413  ;  ich  besich^ 
N,  6413. 

Similarly,  in  the  3d  person,  er  sicht^  N,  11 73,  etc.  ;  buter  sihet^ 
N.  iioi  (in  all  11  times).  In  2d  person,  siihestii^  K.  v.  E.  909, 
37,  is  the  only  instance  of  the  uncontracted  form. 

The  form  with  final  e  is  confined  almost  exclusively  to  L,  N,, 
which,  as  already  mentioned,  shows  closer  conformity  to  an  arti- 
ficial norm  than  the  earlier  works.     Further  occurrences  are  as 


^  See  also  Stirius,  p,  24,  3,  who  mentions  it  simply  as  an  example  of  diph- 
thonffization. 


58  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murner, 

follows:  L.   N.    367;    2235;  2753;    3287;  3953;  4421;  4522; 
4568. 

A  mixed  form,  exhibiting  ch  with  final  e^  is  found  in  the  fol- 
lowing passage  : 

Ich  siche  das  ir  erschrocken  sindt.     G.  553. 

In  the  imperative,  the  monosyllabic  and  dissyllabic  forms 
both  occur : 

Besich,  N.  762  ;  sihe  N.  5604. 

Similarly,  in  the  perf.  part.,  h  botween  vowels  is  merely  an 
aspirate ;  while  in  the  inflected  forms,  where,  owing  to  the  syn- 
copation of  the  unaccented  ^,  it  immediately  precedes  the  con- 
sonant ;z,  we  have  again  ch  :  geschehen^  N.  2096  ;  but  geschcchne 
sach,  N.  7619. 

Two  exceptions  to  this  rule  occur  as  follows :  gesechen^  Kal. 
203,  3 ;  versechen^  Kal.  204,  7. 

As  mentioned  above,  sehcn  has  also  forms  with  zi,  instead  of  z, 
in  the  sing,  pres.,  e.  g.: 

Got  siiht  das  hertz,  S.  Z.  59  ;  847  ;  1244. 

Du  siihst  S.  Z.  247  ;  258  ;  sie  siihet  Gu.  402,  33  ;  K.  N.  E.  909,  12. 
siihestu  K.  n.  E  909,  37  ;  ich  siihe  S.  Z.  586  ;  Gu.  477,  36  ;  ich 
versiihe  K.  n.  E.  921,  13. 

In  two  cases  the  7l  has  been  written  without  umlaut : 

Nun  suhe  ich,  das  es  naher  gat,  S.  Z.  596  ;  suhst,  S.  Z.  594. 

It  is  certainly  not  without  significance  that  most  of  these 
forms  occur  in  S.  Z.,  printed  in  Frankfurt.  In  three  instances 
the  spelling  with  y  occurs  :  der  syhet,  K.  v.  E.,  917,  4 ;  ich  syhe^ 
K.  V.  E.,916,  22  ;  936,  12. 

The  verb  essen  retains  the  older  perf.  part,  gessen^  without 
the  superfluous  ge  added  by  the  later  language  : 

Und  in  eim  tag  zwei  mal  hant  geszen,  N.  4726. 
Geszen,  N.  4745  ;  gessen,  G.  2202. 
In  one  case  the  form  is  not  contracted : 

Wer  meiner  kost  geessen  hat,  L.  N.  4165. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway,  59 

The  well-known  M.  H.  G.  w^rh  jehen^  that  has  long  since  dis- 
appeared from  the  language,  occurs  frequently  in  Murner,  e.  g.: 

Ich  mu°sz  das  uf  min  eid  verjehen,  N.  2095. 
Was  im  der  boswicht  hat  verjehen,  N.  3741. 

The  pres.  sing,  shows  the  M.  H.  G.  change  of  j  to  g  when 

initial. 

Do  von  er  selten  etwas  gicht,  N.  4563. 

Als  uns  die  heilig  gschrift  vergicht,  G.  438. 

Bi  eid  und  eren  ich  vergich,  N.  6414. 

The  following  instance  of  the  preterite  occurs  : 

Darum  Solomon  dz  selber  jahe, 

das  er  kein  schwindlen  nie  mer  sahe,  M.  128. 

Bresten  :  gebresten^  like  jeheii  no  longer  found,  is  well  repre- 
sented in  Murner.     A  few  examples  will  suffice  for  all : 

Am  gstirn  in  gar  niit  bresten  mag,  N.  841. 
Ich  weisz,  was  alien  schelmen  brist,  S.  Z.  7. 
Trunken  lUten  vil  gebrist,  N.  2094. 

Subj.: 

Und  sehent  uch  im  spiegelglas, 

Ob  iich  im  antlit  brest  etwas,  N.  4419. 

The  following  example  of  the  pret.  occurs  : 

Ich  hab  gstudiert  also  fast, 

Das  mir  die  gulden  zal  gebrast,  S.  Z.  403. 

The  perf.  part.,  to  my  knowledge,  does  not  occur. 
The  verb  ziemeii^  now  entirely  weak,  already  shows  this  ten- 
dency in  Murner,  the  inf.  form  zimmen  occurring  in  place  of  the 
older  zeinen  : 

Das  im  doch  nit  wil  gezimmen,  L.  N.  3385. 
Similarly  in  the  plural  of  the  present : 

es  zimmen  im  alle  ding,  Gu.  462,  27. 
The  pret,,  however,  still  shows  the  strong  form  :  ^ 

Und  sprach,  das  es  sich  nimmer  zam,  (:nam),  N.  6743. 

^  L,auchert,  Alemannia,  18,  152,  instances  one  weak  form,  zympte^  in  a  small 
print  to  which  I  was  unable  to  obtain  access. 


6o  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

As  far  as  the  few  forms  of  wegen  (modern  wiegeii)  occurring 
enable  us  to  judge,  it  is  still  conjugated  according  to  this  class  : 
wig  ich^  N.  3391  ;  er  iviget,,  B.  xii,  22  ;  verzvegen  sie,  N.  6322. 

SIXTH   ABLAUT  SERIES. 
M.  H.  G.  a — uo — uo — a. 
As  a  class,  these  verbs  oflfer  very  little  that  is  striking.     In 
distinction  to  the  other  classes,  the  pret.  is  used  quite  freely, 
especially  the  pret.  subj.,  which,  in  accordance  with  the  front- 
ing of  the  u  in  Alemannic,  is  written  z>,  e.  g.: 

Das  trieg  vil  mer,  denn  der  esel  vier,  N.  5029. 
Lieber  schelm  schiefst  du  das  dein,  S.  Z.  1066. 
E  ich  beschwiere  iederman,  N.  4855, 
Ich  wiesche  mich,  N.  218. 

Plural : 

Ja  wol,  das  sie  ufhieben  das,  N.  5927. 
Wir  schliegent  in  mit  kolben  usz,  N.  4219. 
Das  sie  den  hals  also  verbinden, 
Als  ob  sie  vor  sant  Lienhart  stienden,  N.  3492. 
driegent  S.  Z.  106  ;  schwierent,  N.  8030. 
The  pret.  ind.  still  retains  the  diphthong  tio  of  the  M.  H.  G., 
printed,  as  so  frequently  in  writers  of  the  sixteenth  century,  as 

z/°,  e.  g.: 

Und  was  gott  unser  herre  was 

Ere  beschu°f  loub  und  gras.     N.  5683. 

Noch  stu°ndstu   uf,  und  hietest  wider.     N.  921. 
B.  differs  from  the  other  prints  by  writing  the  diphthong  in 
full :  ich  fuor^  B.  V,  10 ;  hiod,  B.  ii,  33  ;  du  truogst^  B.  xxxv, 
103  ;  du  zvtwscht^  B.  v.  45  ;  er  schhiog^  B.  xxvii,  37  ;  wiiosch^  B. 
iv.  63  ;  XXX.  41. 

The  few  cases  like  verstimden^  N.  3907,  where  the  diphthong 
is  not  expressed,  are  most  probably  due  to  the  carelessness  of 
the  printer,  or  perhaps  to  rhyme,  as  in  the  following  passage : 

Den  dasz  si  beten  mit  dem  mund, 
Der  keiner  nie  latin  vorstund,     S.  Z.  489. 
M.  and  V.,  however,  write  frequently  merely  21} 


1  Cf.  Stirius,  \  14. 


Daniel  B.  Shimiway.  6i 

The  2d  and  3d  sing,  pres.  of  schlagen  and  waschen  exhibit 
uniformly  umlaut.  Wachseii  and  laden^  on  the  other  hand, 
only  unumlauted  forms.  Of  fahren  a  few  sporadic  instancses 
of  umlaut  occur  (see  this  verb). 

In  the  case  of  waschen^  the  umlaut  forms  could  be  considered 
as  due  to  the  j'-umlaut  found  in  all  the  forms  of  this  verb  (see 
below). 

The  verb  backen  retains  still  the  M.  H.  G.  conjugation  where 
ch  occurs  in  all  forms.     The  following  instances  are  found : 

Inf.: 

Die  mir  sunst  mochten  niitzlich  machen  : 

Strauben  oder  kuchlin  bachen,  L.  N.  1047  ;  G.  175  ;  4906. 
Pres.:  du  backs t^  G.  4640. 
Pret: 

Sie  buchent,  wil  sie  lougen  hant,  N.  1039. 
Perf.  part.: 

Si  wurdent  worlich  ietzund  lachen, 

Wen  ich  in  kiechel  hett  gebachen,  S.  Z.  1187. 

gabechen  L.  N.  4262  ;  ungebachen,  L.  N.  498  ;  gebachen,  M.  164. 

Imp.:  bach^  N.  5187  ;  bachet^  B.  xxv.  67. 

Fahren  shows,  as  mentioned  above,  the  unumlauted  form  in 
the  2d  and  3d  sing,  pres.,  as  still  to-day  in  the  Upper  German 
dialects,  e.  g.;  di&i  far i,  S.  Z,  468;  N.  777;  I^.  N.  4446;  G. 
1984,  etc.;  &[ifarest^  1,.  N.  4361.  Three  instances,  however, 
with  umlaut  are  found  :/erl  (:  verkert),  N.  3884  ;  zviderfert^  (:  erd), 
N.  7393  ;  du  erferst  (:  erst),  N.  807.  One  case  of  an  inf.  form 
with  the  vowel  e  occurs  in  rhyme  :  erferen  (:  begeren),  M.  727. 
A  similar  instance  is  also  found  in  Hans  Sachs.  ^ 

Tragen  exhibits,  with  but  few  exceptions,  in  the  2d  and  3d 
sing,  pres.,  the  familiar  M.  H.  G.  contraction  of  ege  to  ei^  e.  g.: 
Do  mit  dreit  er,  S.  Z.  288  : 

Und  alias,  das  die  kutten  dreit  (igeistlichkeit).     S.  Z.  479. 
Der  boden  treits  und  ist  so  gut,  N.  333. 

The  exceptions  occur  as  follows:  tregt^  L,.  N.  1334;   1949; 
^  See  above-mentioned  article,  p.  no. 


62  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

2443  ;  3497  ;  3801  ;  K.  v.  E.  941,  11  ;  tragi,  N.  4447  ;  G.  1157  ; 
iraget,  N.  6587;  G.  4106;  du  tregst,  L.  N.  2499;  3553;  ^^^ 
drag  St,  G.  1477  ;  B.  xx.  25.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the 
umlaut  forms  occur  only  in  the  late  texts  L.  N.  and  K.  v.  E. 
But  two  other  occurrences  of  the  2d  sing,  are  found :  treist,  L. 
N.  419;  B.  xix,  26. 

Schlagen  retains  the  original  grammatical  change  in  only  a 
few  instances,  except  in  the  2d  and  3d  sing,  where  the  t  of  the 
ending  caused  the  retention.  In  the  inf.  there  occurs  but  one 
instance  :  schlahen,  N.  7036.  In  addition,  the  noun  lutenschlaher, 
N.  7053,  is  also  found.  In  the  ist  sing,  six  instances  of  schlag 
occur  to  one  with  schlach,  N.  1017.  The  2d  sing,  appears  only 
as  schlechst,  e.  g.,  L.  N.  3474 ;  N.  5673  ;  the  3d.  sing.  ind.  as 
schlecht.  One  spelling  with^,  schlegt,  N.  684,  occurs.  The  3d  sing. 
subj.  only  occurs  three  times  as  schlag,  S.  Z.  67  ;  388  ;  N.  2693  ; 
twice  as  schlah,  G.  4167,  and  once  as  schlack,  L.  N.  4273,  rhym- 
ing with  sack.  The  plural  exhibits  only  the  form  schlagen  with 
g ;  the  imp.  schlag,  with  the  one  exception,  schlach,  N.  4538, 
which,  as  in  the  case  of  the  one  exception  in  the  ist  sing.,  is 
found  in  N.  The  pronunciation  was  probably  in  both  cases  the 
same — that  of  the  guttural  spirant. 

Stehen  exhibits,  apart  from  a  few  scattered  exceptions,  only 
the  form  stan,  usual  among  Alemanic  writers,  sthi  occurring  but 
seldom  in  that  dialect,'  e.  g.:  es  stat,  S.  Z.  164;  du  stast,  N. 
2464 ;  wir  Stan,  S.  Z.  228  ;  si  stan,  N.  4948  ;  Inf.  stan,  S.  Z. 
195,  etc. 

The  exceptions  are  as  follows:  stet,  S.  Z.  781  ;  B.  xxi,  43; 
XXV,  141;  K.  V.  E.  912,  28;  918,  28;  923,  20;  957,  26;  steh 
(subj.),  N.  2502.  With  the  exception  of  the  last  instance,  all 
those  found  in  verse  occur  in  rhyme.  In  a  large  number  of 
cases  the  spelling  shows  the  darkening  of  a  to  o,  in  accordance 
with  the  well-known  tendency  in  Upper  German.  This  is  espe- 
cially true  of  the  3d  sing.,  36  cases  of  slot  occurring  to  69  of 
Stat.  No  t'-forms  are  found  in  S.  Z.,  N.  or  L.  N.,  with  the 
exception  of  the  following  three  instances,  all  in  rhyme :  iinder- 

1  Cf.  Weinhold,  At.  Gr.,  ?  332. 


Daniel  B.  Shiumvay.  63 

slot  {;.  rQ>\.\)  S.  Z.  1157;  slot  (:  gott),  N.  5854;  6863.  The  2d 
sing-,  exhibits  two  forms  with  o — gcstosfu^  K.  v.  E.  903,  36  ;  904, 
7 — to  five  with  a  :  du  stast^  N.  2464  ;  G.  3752  ;  5322  ;  K.  v.  E. 
949,  32  ;  952,  24/  The  ist  sing,  has  only  one  with  o — G.  3150, 
in  rhyme  with  M.  H.  G.  o — to  23  with  a.  The  3d  plur.  has  25 
instances  with  6»  to  8  with  a.  With  respect  to  the  endings,  we 
find  in  the  ist  sing,  generally  the  ending  -nd^  e.  g.:  ich  standi  N. 
3918 ;  B.  i,  67,  etc.  Only  two  cases  occur  with  11  alone,  both  of 
them  in  rhyme:  ich  sto?i  (  :  Ion,  "reward"),  G.  3150;  ich  stan 
(:  dran),  B.  viii.  4.  The  2d  sing,  ends  in  -st^  the  3d  sing  in  -/, 
as  instanced  above.  The  subjunctive,  however,  exhibits  the  full 
stem  stand :  2d  sing,  du  nnderstajtdest^  N.  6503  ;  verstatidest^ 
L.  N.  3954 ;  K.  v.  E.  943,  2  ;  standst^  N.  6645  ;  3d  sing,  stand, 
N.  1292  ;  2946,  etc.  ;  understande,  Gu.  433,  24;  verstand,  S.  Z, 
467;  N.  1 1 19.  The  occurrences  number  all  told  32.  With 
respect  to  the  plural,  whether  a  form  ends  in  -nt  or  -;z  depends 
largely  on  the  text  in  which  it  occurs.  Compare  the  general 
treatment  above.  The  figures  in  this  verb  are  as  follows : 
ist  plur.,  6  with  -n  to  5  with  -;///  2d  plur.,  3  with  -n  to  6  with 
-7it ;  3d  plur.,  23  with  -n  to  18  with  -nt.  The  sing,  and  plur. 
imp.  have  the  same  form,  stand  .-sva^.  stattd,  L.  N.  234  ;  G.  3309  ; 
3609  ;  B.  xiv,  20 ;  xxxi.  25  ;  N.  553  ;  1190  ;  1962  ;  5559  ;  5577  ; 
6757.    plur,,  verstont^  N.  2>2i2)l  \  8687. 

The  verb  schzvbreii^  M.  H.  G.  swern^  shows  by  the  side  of  the 
older  forms  beschweren^  schweren^  S.  Z.  243,  265,  470 ;  N.  470, 
1881  ;  ich  schwere,  N.  5470;  L.  N.  181,  1794  etc.,  where  the 
M.  H.  G.  vowel  is  still  retained,  also  newer  forms  with  the  dark- 
ening of  the  vowel  to  o,  due  to  the  labial  ?£/,  which  have  become 
the  only  ones  in  N.  H.  G.  These  forms  are  rare  compared  with 
those  containing  the  original  vowel,  in  fact  occur  only  in  N. 
They  are  :  inf.  beschworen,  N.  4407  ;  4478  ;  7548  ;  8012  ;  8309  ; 
8312;  8404;  er  schwbrt,  N.  3692;  6315;  beschzvort,  N.  3767; 
wir  verschwbren,  N.  881  ;  ir  schworent,  N.  7242  ;  sie  schzvbrent, 
N.  7303  ;  verschivbreiit^  N.  7593  ,  7596. 

^  I^auchert,  in  his  article  Alemannia,  xviii,  p.  154,  gives  no  instance  of  this 
form. 


64  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Miirncr. 

The  pret.  ind.  exhibits  wthout  exception  the  original  diph- 
thong : 

Vierzig  schwu°rent  hohen  eid,  N,  7600. 
Bitz  ich  beschwu°r,  G.  81;  82;  241. 

The  verb  zuaschen  is  characterized  by  the  5-iinilaut  common 
to  the  Alsatian  dialect  and  which  is  well  represented  in  Mnrner 
by  such  forms  as  deschen  :  escheti^  S.  Z.  184  ;  tesch  :  esch^  N. 
3216;  2ivA  felsch  (falsch)  :  welsch^  N.  6559.  The  forms  of  zuas- 
chen occur  only  with  this  umlaut,  as  shown  by  the  following 
examples : 

Inf.: 

Den  belz  wil  ich  mir  weschen  Ion,  S.  Z,  1319. 
Weschen  (:eschen),  S.  Z.  1005. 

Pres, : 

Min  sUnd,  die  weschen  din  nit  ab,  N.  5379. 
So  stent  ir  *  *  *  und  weschent,  S.  Z.  822. 

A  pres.  form  with  simple  s  occurs  six  times  in  B.:  der  west^ 
B.  i,  3  ;  es  west^  B.  xxxi.  63  ;  xxvi.  60  ;  xxvii.  7 1  ;  luest  uch,  B. 
xxiv.  15. 

On  wasser  west  sich  nieman  rein,  B.  iii,  i, 
but  weschet,  B.  xxxi,  2  and  4. 

Perf.  Part.: 

Sie  sind  mit  bosem  wasser  geweschen 

Und  hant  den  schliissel  in  der  deschen.     S.  Z.  992. 

geweschen  (:fleschen),  S.  Z.  1027. 

The  pret.  ind.  occurs  as  follows :  er  wnosch^  B.  iv,  63  ;  ich 
wuosch^  B.  XXX,  41 ;  du  wiioscht^  B.  v,  45  ;  er  wnsch^  B.  iv,  25  ; 
once  with  Alem.  umlaut  of  u:  der  doufft  und  wi'isch^  B.  ii,  31. 

Wachsen  shows,  by  the  side  of  the  regular  forms,  three  cases 
where  syncope  of  the  ch  has  taken  place,  in  the  one  case  estab- 
lishedrt)y  the  rhyme, — 

Das  ietz  die  liit  zu°  gensen  wiechsen, 
Wen  wolt  es  aber  nit  verdrieszen  ?     N.  1915. 

in  the  other  cases  shown  by  the  spelling : 

Da  ■waszt  kein  grien  gras  nimmermer,  N.  2010. 
erwaszet,  Gu.  427,  25. 


Daniel  B.  SJmmzvay.  65 

The  pret.  ind.  occurs  in  the  following  forms  :  erwu°chse^  Gu. 
410,  30;  wii^'chs,  Gu.  477,  35. 

The  verb  ivaten^  which  already  in  the  sixteenth  century  be- 
came weak,  occurs  still  strong  in  Murner,  in  the  perf.  part.: 

Wann  sei  sich  hont  verwatten  tief,  N.  7011. 
Wir  heten  gewatten,  K.  v.  E.  969,  30. 

The  pret.  does  not  occur. 

Heben^  ordinarily  conjugated  strong,  at  least  in  the  pret.,  as 
the  following  forms  show  :  hii''bendt^  G.  1858  ;  erhifben^  Gu.  410, 
20 ;  das  sie  iifhieben  das,  N.  5926,  exhibits  the  weak  form  in  the 
perf.  part,  in  the  only  instance  occurring :  bisz  angehebi  hat,  K. 
V.  E.  927,  18. 

This  weak  form,  occurring  already  in  INI.  H.  G.,  has  become 
the  usual  form  of  the  dialect  to-day. 

The  verb  zzvagen  occurs  four  times,  one  showing  the  reten- 
tion of  the  grammatical  change  : 

Mit  weschen,  zwahen,  B.  xiii,  32. 

The  others  exhibit  only  g  : 

Bit  got  des  er  dir  zwagen  dieg,  B.  xiii,  50. 
Das  er  zuo  zwagen  sei  bereit,  B.  xiii,  72. 
So  ich  mir  selber  manigs  mol 
Oft  und  dick  hab  zwagen  wol.     N.  8703. 

An  irregular  and  sporadic  strong  pret.  to  the  weak  verb 
schadeii  occurs  once,  in  rhyme  with  entlieden^  the  pret.  subj. 
of  entladeji  : 

Das  wir  der  narren  uns  entlieden, 

Uf  des  si  uns  nit  waiter  schieden.  N.  87. 

The  form  is,  of  course,  to  be  ascribed  to  the  exigencies  of  the 
rhyme,  and  has  no  further  importance. 

The  SEVENTH  CLASS,  composed  of  the  originally  reduplicat- 
ing verbs,  is  distinguished  by  the  absence  of  the  umlaut  in  the 
2d  and  3d  sing,  pres,  ind.,  still  characteristic  of  the  Upper  Ger- 
man dialects.     A  few  examples  will  suffice  : 

Der  sich  bis  bar  frumlichen  halt, 

Das  im  kein  dreck  mer  so  entfalt.     S.  Z.  540. 


66  The  Verb  in   Thoinas  Murner. 

gefallt(:  gvvalt),  N.  7957;  louft,  S.  Z.  774;  N.  4232. 
Das  der  himel  hangt  voll  rouch,  N,  4621. 
hanget,  Gu.  451,  22  ;  schlafet,  N.  2079. 
Ein  frind  verrat  den  andren  frint,  S.  Z.  73. 
stoszt,  N.  2400;  blaset,  K.  v.  E.  928,  31. 

The  pret.  of  this  class  occurs  but  seldom. 

The  following  instances,  all  of  which  are  regular,  may  serve 
to  show  the  form:  briet^  L.  N.  4501;  \^^o\  fing^  G.  3277; 
gieng,  N.  4647  ;  stieszcnt,  N.  5930 ;  3993. 

Fallen^  differing  from  the  oflrer  verbs  of  this  class,  has  many 
cases  of  umlaut  in  the  sing.  pres.  They  occur  mostly  in  rhyme, 
but  also  in  the  prose  writings,  and  in  fact  outnumber  those  with- 
out umlaut — 47  with  imilaut  being  found  to  36  without.  A  few 
examples  will  suffice  for  all :  gefelt  (:  gelt),  S.  Z.  893  ;  a7ifellt 
(:  vergelt),  N.  1094 ;  fclt^  N.  898.  The  uncontracted  forms 
exhibit  both  a  and  e  side  by  side,  as  the  occurrences  show  :  fal- 
let,  K.  V.  E.  906,  21 ;  943,  32  ;  945,  24 ;  fellet,  G.  1702  ;  Gu.  435, 
29;  443,  18.  One  instance  of  a  subjunctive  form  witn  e  occurs 
in  rhyme;  das  sy  mir^^/(:  wel),  G.  4271. 

An  irregular  umlaut  occurs  occasionally  in  the  inf.  and  plur. 
pres.,  always  in  rhyme,  as  follows  :  die  seek  entfellen  (:  wellen), 
N.  5084  ;  wir  vellen  (:  wollen),  B.  vi,  51  ;  \w{.  fellen  (:  schnellen), 
G.  \o\(i\  gefellen  (:  hellen),  G.  ^\(^\  gefellen  (:  wellen),  S.  Z. 
1379  ;  1 1 17,  33  ;  gefellcn  (:  stellen),  S.  Z.  19  ;  N.  232  ;  G.  3916  ; 
gefellen  (:  gesellen),  L.  N.  3598. 

IVallen^  o/dginally  of  this  class,  is  already  weak,  as  the  only 
instance  of  the  preterite  shows :  und  so  es  an  dem  liefFstigsten 
wallet  warf  ich,  etc.,  Gu.  411,  38.  The  only  other  instance  of 
the  verb  is  the  pres. :  wen  das  bluot  wallet^  B.  xii.  10. 

Fangen  (M.  H.  G.  vahen)  is  still  free  on  the  present  stem 
from  the  analogical  n  of  the  modern  form,  e.  g.:  was  facht  ir  ? 

N.  1753- 

Was  einer  facht  mit  schriben  an,  N.  162;  S.  Z.  917. 
Der  liigner  facht  an  widerkniivven,  N.  5309. 

In  a  few  cases  we  have  the  characteristic  darkening  of  a  to  o: 
Iwi.  fohen,  S.  Z.  1070. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  67 

Und  fohet  narren  seien  an,  N.  480;  G.  1547. 
anfohet,  Gu.  444,  31;  fohent,  S.  Z.  1380. 
Wer  meusz  wil  fohen  nach  seim  sin,  S.  Z.  1070. 
foht.  S.  Z.  513;  G.  906. 

As  may  be  seen,  this  darkening  occurs  mainly  in  the  uncon- 
tracted  forms,  although  a  is  by  no  means  infrequent,  as  the 
occurrences  show  :  fahet,  N.  4871  ;  8657  ;  fahcst,  N.  6175. 

In  one  case  I  have  noted  umlaut : 

Fecht  sie  dann  dir  an  zuo  weynen,  M.  485. 
A  second  instance  would  seem  to  be  the  following :  Darnach 
fecht  uns  ein  junges  knab,  N.  5505  ;  although  Balke  glosses  it 
as  fesselt. 

By  the  side  of  the  fuller  forms  of  lassen  there  occur  numerous 
forms,  which  go  back  to  the  M.  H.  G.  contraction,  Ian,  e.  »  • 
Inf.:  ''■ 

Den  wil  ich  an  die  gemein  Ian  (:  span),  L.  N.  2417. 
Die  niemans  vvollen  schreiben  Ion  (:  gethon),  L.  N.  304. 
Perf.  part.: 

Do  sie  die  alter  hont  gelon  (:  ston),  N.  2921. 
Pres.: 

Wann  ein  frow  irscham  verlot  (:  gott),  N.  2778. 
Darum  lend  wir  uns  doctor  schelten,  N.  245. 
Die  sich  mit  goben  lent  vereren,  S.  Z.  647. " 

With  respect  to  the  frequency  of  the  different  forms,  this 
varies  in  the  different  parts  of  the  verb.  In  tne  inf.  there  are 
195  occurrences  of  Ian  (or  loji)  to  117  of  lassen.  These  con- 
tracted forms,  with  the  exception  of  18  cases  (9  of  which  occur 
in  B.)  are  found  only  in  rhyme.  Lassen  is  found  in  the  middle 
of  the  line  and  in  the  prose  texts  (one  instance  only  of  a  con- 
tracted form  occurs  in  prose.  Ion,  G.  p.  166,  22) ;  occasionally, 
however,  lassen  appears  in  rhyme,  as  follows  :  lassen  (:  massen), 
L.  N.  1196;  G.  4747;  5026;  lassen  (:  fassen),  B.  iv,  51.  In 
the  past  part,  we  have  much  the  same  proportion,  the  contracted 
forms  occur  only  in  rhyme,  their  number  being  24  to  2,2>  of  g^- 
or  verlassen,  etc.,  of  which,  however,  only  10  are  found  in  the 


68  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Afiirner. 

metrical  texts,  so  that  the  real  proportion  is  24  to  10.  As  in 
the  inf.,  the  fuller  fonns  occur  but  seldom  in  rhyme  :  gelaszse?t 
(:  straszen),  N.  4280 ;  gelasseti  (massen),  L.  N.  2884 ;  verlassen 
(:  massen),  G.  1948;  2interlasscn  (:  verfassen),  G.  5104.  In  the 
3d  sing,  there  are  56  instances  of  lat  [lot)  to  64  with  laszt.  In 
addition,  there  occur  three  examples  of  an  umlaut  form  in 
rhyme,  as  follows:  let  (:  stet),  N.  1218;  ledi  (:  bett),  G.  4210; 
verledt  (:  stedt),  B.  xxi.  46.  In  the  3d  plur.  we  find  54  forms  of 
lon{f)  to  31  of  lassenif) ;  in  the  ist  plur.,  9  of  lon{f)  to  2  of  las- 
scn{i) ;  in  the  2d  plur.  four  different  forms,  as  follows :  2  of  lat^ 
7  of  lon{{)^  and  11  of  lassen{t\  and  9  of  laszt.  The  ist  sing, 
occurs  generally  as  lasz ;  one  example,  however,  of  Ian  is  found 
in  rhyme  :  ich  Ian  (:  kan),  G.  4177. 

Gehen.  As  was  the  case  with  stehen^  Murner  makes  use 
mainly  of  the  forms  gaii  and  gangen.  The  following  forms, 
derived  from  gen^  however,  occur  :  er  get^  N.  803  ;  geht^  N. 
3878 ;  get  (:  tet),  N.  5307  ;  gedt  (:  hett),  G.  962  ;  get  (:  geredt), 
G.  5324 ;  gedt,  B.  xxii,  62  ;  3d  plur.  gen,  N.  3637.  The  addi- 
tional form  gend,  L.  N.  3200,  given  by  Lauchert,  I  take,  with 
Balke,  to  be  a  contraction  of  gebend.  The  ist  sing,  exhibits 
generally  the  form  gang,  e.  g.r  N.  5873;  7118;  7686;  L.  N. 
846;  M.  1453;  G.  4129.  There  occurs,  however,  one  case  of  a 
form  without  g  in  rhyme,  as  in  M.  H.  G.:  ich  gan  (:  an),  M. 
1445.  Lauchert  does  not  mention  this  form  nor  give  any 
instance  of  the  2d  sing.,  of  which  I  have  found  the  following 
occurrences:  du  gast,  M.  1179;  S.  Z.  2()^;  gahstn,  G.  4808; 
gahst  (:  entpfahst),  G.  3772  ;  gost,  K.  v.  E.  950,  23  ;  955,  12. 
The  plural  exhibits  the  iorm  gon{t),  e.  g.:  ^\r  gont,  S.  Z.  1212  ; 
wirgon,  S.  Z.  40  ;  ir  gan,  N.  4415  ;  sie  gont,  S.  Z.  481 ;  sy  gand, 
G.  744.  The  subjunctive  uses  the  full  s\.^vi\gang,  e.  g.:  qt gang, 
N.  8943;  3895;  8025;  Gu.  475,  2,7  \  K.  V.  E.  969,  4;  B.  vii. 
20.  The  imperative  sing,  is  found  only  as  gang,  e.  g.:  S.  Z. 
387;  700;  N.  2105;  G.  4201.  The  plural  has  ^^«(/).  Inf.  has 
generally  gan  {goji),  e.  g.:  L.  N.  626;  occasionally  the  fonn 
gangen,  e.  g.:  N.  2660  ;  and  once  the  iorm  gehen,  in  rhyme  with 
versehen,  L.  V.  4708.     The  pret.  occurs  only  as  gicng,  e.  g.:  N. 


Da7iiel  B.  Shuniway.  69 

4647  ;  plur.  giengent^  B.  34,  59 ;  the  past  part,  as  {g^)ga7tgen^ 
B.  XXV.  I  ;  M.  663,  etc. 

Laufen  exhibits  in  the  perf.  part,  only  the  form  geloffen^  formed 
in  analogy  to  saitffen^  and  which  made  its  appearance  already  in 
the  M.  H.  G.  period.  A  few  instances  will  suffice  to  exemplify 
the  usage  : 

Nun  ist  er  iich  zu°  wit  geloffen 

Das  ir  bezalung  nimm  kiinnt  hoffen.  N.  4379. 

Kab  ich  aber  etwar  troffen 

Und  manchen  dutch  den  bart  geloffen.  N.  8697. 

Wann  ein  wib  hat  alle  land 

Geloffen  durch.     N.  6964;  M.   1375;  K.  v.  E.  923,  22; 
929,  23;  966,  36. 

In  one  instance,  it  occurs  as  uberliiffeii^  (:  schifFen),  G.  5018.^ 
Rufen  occurs  only  as  a  weak  verb  in  Murner,  in  accordance 
with  the  tendency  of  the  Alemannic  dialect,  which,  especially 
in  the  older  monuments,  offers  no  instance  of  a  strong  pret.  to 
this  verb.^  The  following  instances  may  serve  to  illustrate  the 
forms : 


Inf. 


Pres. 


Pret.: 


Da  sie  rieffen  Ion,  wie  sie  wollen,  L.  N.  1170. 
Dan  das  ich  sie  wolt  rieffen  an,  L.  N.,  1545.;  1784. 

Ich  rief  manchen  frumen  man  den  wein,  S.  Z.  189. 

Ich  rief,  S.  Z.  193:  die  rieff  ich,  L.  N.  1790. 

Du  riefst  dein  wein  doch  nur  zu°ruck, 

Und  treibst  sunst  niit  der  schelmen  stuck.  S.  Z.  219. 

Und  ist  der  erst,  der  sie  verrieft,  N.  6286. 

Und  sitzent  uf  der  gassen  riefen 

Wie  sie  haut  sant  Kiirens  bu°sz.     N.  5314. 

So  bald  ich  diese  namen  drei 

Anriefft  und  die  Luthery 

Da  ward  ersterckt  mein  herz  und  gemiit.  L.  N.  197. 


^  This  is  found  also  in  other  Alemannic  writers.     See  Weinhold,  Al.  Gr.,  § 

337- 
2  Cf.  Weinhold,  Al.  Gramm.,  I  336,  C.  i. 


70  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

Ich  riefft  bald.  L.  N.  202. 

Des  behalf  er  sich  an  allem  ort 

Ita  rieft  er  uberall 

Und  bleib  doch  in  der  esel  zal,  N,  6454. 

One  instance  of  the  pret.  without  umlaut  occurs,  as  follows : 

Ouch  rufften  zu  den  die  do  flohen,  G.  i860. 

The  following  cases  of  the  perf.  part,  occur : 

Darumb  hab  ich  sie  beriefft  zu°semen,  L.  N  1349. 

Zuom  opffer  ir  beriefft  handt,  M,  1379. 

wiederrieffet  haben,  K,  v.  E.  929,  4;  904,  2;  wiederriifft.  K.  v. 

904,  35- 

Bauen  still  retains  its  strong  perf.  part.  : 

E  das  wir  in  erbuwen  han,  N.  21 12. 
Euwere  elter  hon  erbuwen,  L.  N.  2878. 

erbuwen,  L.  N.  3249;  gebuwen,  G.  1877;  5336;  4838;  Gu.  464; 
22;  K.  V.  E,  943,  31;  erbuowen,  B.  xxxv,  30. 

One  instance,  however,  of  a  weak  perf.  part,  occurs  :  gehawety 
K.  V.  E.  944,  I. 

Hmien  exhibits  only  strong  forms  in  the  perf.  part.,  with  the 
retention  of  the  labial  w:  gehouweu^  Gu.  916,  25  ;  gehaiizven^ 
K.  V.  E.  981,  33  ;  serhojiwen^  Gu.  417,  28  ;  abgehoinven^  Gu.  480, 
32.  No  pret.  form  occurs.  The  following  instances  of  inf.  and 
pres.  are  found  :  inf.  hawen^  M.  45  ;  sie  hawen^  L.  N.  2820. 

The  old  verb  scheidcn  of  this  class,  whose  forms,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  N.  H.  G.  diphthongization,  became  confused  with 
the  corresponding  verb  of  the  first  class,  leaving  only  the  part. 
bescheiden  as  an  isolated  adjective,  occurs  three  times  in  Murner 
as  follows : 

Darumb  ich  ietz  sy  alle  beid 

An  dieses  ortlein  har  bescheid,  G.  2650. 

This  instance  is  assured  by  the  rhyme.  The  following, 
although  occurring  within  the  line,  may  be  safely  assumed,  as 
N.,  in  which  it  is  found,  has  but  a  few  sporadic  cases  of  the 
diphthongization  of  i  to  ei: 

Den  kernen  zscheiden  von  den  kligen,  N.  5916. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  71 

Also  an  instance  in  the  perf.  part.: 

Es  muosz  billich  gescheiden  werden,  L.  N.  4438. 
I  have  noted  only  the  following  forms  of  spalten  : 

Wie  kan  ich     .     .     .     spalten,  L.  N.  2289. 

Wir  habens  noch  nit  gespalten  gesehen,  Gu.  416,  22. 
The  pret.,  as  far  as  I  know,  does  not  occnr. 
Heischen^  originally  weak,  bnt  in  M.  H.  G.  transferred  to  this 
class  through  analogy  to  hcissen^  exhibits,  in  the  only  preterite 
form  occurring,  strong  conjugation. 

hiesch  er  im  CC.  guldin  fur  den  artzet  Ion,  Gu.  455,  27. 

I  have  noted,  in  addition,  the  following  forms  of  the  present : 

Du  heischst,  N.  3387;  so  heischt  man,  N.  3419;  5973;  11 16. 
Inf.  heischen,  M.  472;  imp.  heisch,  M.  1146. 

Of  the  verb  salzen  the  pret.  does  not  occur,  so  far  as  I  know. 
The  perf.  part,  is  strong,  e.  g.:  ungesaltzen^  L,.  N.  498. 

PRETERITE   PRESENT  VERBS. 
The  only  representative  of  the  first  ablaut  series,  wissen^  has 
added,  in  a  large  number  of  cases,  a  /  to  the  3d  sing.,  in  analogy 
to  other  verbs,  many  of  which  cases  are  assured  by  the  rhyme : 

So  weiszt  er,  das  er  fiirabent  hat,  N.  1047,  etc. 

Uf  der  seiten  allermeist, 

Do  er  den  schweren  seckel  weiszt,  S.  Z.  899. 
also,  S.  Z.  899;  1298;  N.  4187;  6143;  B.  i,  88;  xi.  22. 
In  three  cases  weiszt  rhymes  with  words  having  no  /,  showing 
it  to  have  been  due  to  the  printer :  weiszt  (:  geisz),  N.  1620 ; 
weiszt  (:  gschmeisz),  N.  8421 ;  zveiszt  (:  heisz),  G.  4585.  The 
proportion  of  forms  with  /  to  those  without,  omitting  the  three 
just  cited,  is  38  of  weiszt  to  38  of  weisz — curiously  enough,  just 
equal.  The  late  print  L.  N.  is  entirely  free  from  the  t  form.  In 
one  case  it  has  been  added  by  false  analogy  to  the  ist  person  : 

Ich  weiszt  von  keinen  siinden  me,  N.  8592. 

The  past  part,  exhibits  the  pure  M.  H,  G.  form,  gewist.  In 
three  instances  it  is  spelled  with  ii :  gewilszt^  I,.  N.  3905  ;  B.  ii, 
^y  ^  gewilsset^  K.  v.  E.  918,  30 ;  and  once,  gzvysset^  G.  2532. 
Similarly  the  pret.,  both  ind.  and  siibj.,  exhibits  the  form  zviszt 


72  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

wis2te7i.  The  following  instances  occur  with  i'l :  ich  ivihzt^  L. 
N.  3901  ;  4163;  G.  3164;  3990;  er  ivuszt^  L.  N,,  2644;  B.  ii, 
13;  wir  wussten^  K,  v.  E.  906,  28;  ir  wiiszten^  G.  3754;  sie 
wiisztejty  L.  N.  341 ;  G.  1604 ;  4684. 

That  there  was,  however,  no  difference  in  the  pronunciation 
is  proved  by  the  rhymes  7vuszten  :  kysten  (Kisten),  G.  3754-  In 
one  case  it  is  written  wyssten^  Gu.  409,  '})']. 

Of  taugen  of  the  second  series  I  have  noted  but  one  occur- 
rence, an  infinitive : 

Dan  sollent  die  aplosz  gantz  niit  dogen,  K.  v.  E.  917,  5. 

Of  the  third  series,  gbiuien^  now  entirely  weak,  exhibits  the 
following  instances  of  the  older  strong  form  : 

Ich  hoff,  ich  sei  ein  eren  man, 
So  lang  niir  gott  der  selben  gan.  S.  Z.  100. 
Das  er  dir  gan  das  sacrament,  L.  N.  643. 
Doch  nymstu  es  fiir  ein  schimpf  an 
Von  grundt  myns  hertzens  ich  dirs  gan.      G.  4863. 
gan  (:  man),  G.  2493. 

By  the  side  of  these  occur  also  the  following  weak  forms  : 

Ich  giin  dem  keiser  aller  eer,  L.  N.  902;  G.  44,  i;  3641. 

Wie  man  die  anner  thu°t  beleiden 

Und  gvint  in  nit  zu°  rumplieren.   L.  N.  1487. 

So  seind  es  fil  der  bosen  find, 

Der  keiner  im  das  bad  nit  gint,  B.  xxxii,  65. 

giinnt,  N.  5581;  ichgyn,  M.  1590;  wirgiinnend,  K.  v.  E.,  924,  34- 

Subj.; 

Das  man  in  doch  giin  dise  frodt,  L.  N.  1025. 

The  pret.  and  perf.  part,  exhibit  the  vowel  u  ;  the  latter  with 
and  without  umlaut. 

Wen  wir  nit  verraten  kundten, 

Die  herren  uns  kein  dienst  nit  gundten,  S.  Z.  337. 

Und  hat  es  kein  pfaff  me  weihen  kunt, 

So  haben  sie  es  unsz  auch  nie  gegunt,  L.  N.  S80. 

So  hett  im  gott  sin  lieben  kind 

Hie  uf  erd  das  leben  giinnt,  N.  4819. 

Wenn  got  der  eren  giinnet  hat,  B.  xv.  8. 


Daniel  B.  Sluimway.  ^2) 

K'dnne7i  presents  but  little  worthy  of  remark.  The  pret.  and 
perf.  part,  retain,  like  gbmien^  the  older  vowel  ii:  ich  kiint^  S. 
Z.  29 ;  kundst,  N.  926 ;  kmtdten^  S.  Z.  376 ;  kuni  (perf,  part.), 
L.  N.  879,  etc. 

The  vowel  of  the  inf.  and  plnr.  pres.  is  fronted  to  /,  rhymes 
always  with  tnat  vowel  and  is  generally  written  in  accordance : 
Die  rechten  griff  wir  ietz  erst  kinnen  (:  innen),  S.  Z.  330. 
Der  erst  von  kunsterichen  sinnen 
Und  mu°sz  me  dans  ich  selber  kinnen,  S.  Z.  953. 
Was  kinnent  si  mit  beten  schaffen,  S.  Z.  157;  496. 

Diirfefi  retains  the  M.  H.  G.  vowel  o  in  the  pret:  ich  dorft^  S. 
Z.  631;  690;  er  dorfi,  S.   Z.   779;  es  dbrft,  N.  41;  3281;  wir 
dorfftcn^  L.  N.  4107.     Only  one  instance  with  21  is  found. 
Als  ob  du     .     .     .     niemands  diirftest,  N.  1182. 

In  the  pres.  plur.  and  inf.  o  has  supplanted  the  older  ti^  a  pro- 
cedure common  in  the  Alsatian  dialect.^  e.  g.:  wir  d'drfen^  N. 
2202  ;  ir  dbrft^  N.  7247. 

S.  Z.  is  characterized  by  the  absence  of  the  umlaut  in  these 
forms.  This  is  doubtless  due  to  its  having  been  printed  in 
Frankfurt,  as  the  Midland  German,  according  to  Weinhold,^ 
shows  a  decided  preference  for  these  forms.  The  occurrences 
are  as  follows  :  dorfen  wir,  S.  Z.  2,2)7)  5  i^  doi-fent^  S.  Z.  1467  ;  si 
dorfent,  S.  Z.  1368.  In  the  other  writings  the  umlaut  is  found 
almost  without  exception.  I  was  able  to  find  but  the  two  follow- 
ing cases  with  o :  des  dorfent  sie,  N.  6882  ;  das  sie  nit  dorffen^ 
M.  1248.  An  isolated  case  of  the  retention  of  the  older  vowel 
occurs  as  follows  :  was  durfcn  sie?  N.  455. 

The  vowel  0^  having  the  pronunciation  of  ^,  is  often  written 
thus  when  used  in  rhyme.  The  occurrences  are  as  follows  :  si 
beder/en.,  (:  verwerfen),  N.  i960  ;  G.  22  \  sy  derffen  (:  werfen),  G. 
1928 ;  inf.  bederfen  (:  werfen),  N.  6268. 

Occasionally  also  we  have  the  retention  of  the  character  o^ 
even  when  in  rhyme  with  ^,  as  the  following  instance  shows  : 
wie  bedo^rffen  (:  verwerffen),  I^.  N.  1928  ;  3173. 


1  See  Weinhold,  mlid.  Gr.,  \  416. 

2  Mhd.  Gr.,  g  416. 


74  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

The  ad  sing,  exhibits  only  the  newer  form,  with  analogical  s: 
(in  darffcst^  L.  N.  282  ;  so  dar/estu^  Gu.  441,  33.  The  perf.  part, 
to  my  knowledge  does  not  occur. 

Of  the  M.  H.  G.  verb  tiirren  there  occur  the  following  forms : 

Dem  wolf  kein  gans  nit  truwen  tar  (:  gar),  N.  4031. 

Wie  wol  ich  das  audi  reden  tar  (:  narr),  N.  561. 

Noch  hab  ich  mer  dann  tusend  par, 

Die  ich  ietzund  nit  sagen  dar,  N.  330. 

Thar  e\x\  kiinig  von  England,  K.  v.  E.  901,  21;  903,  11. 

dar  (:  par),  N.  355;  (:  far),  1248;  (:  narr),  6215;  L.  N.  4674; 
dar  (:  gar),  N.  7015  ;  B.  xxiii.  52  ;  dar  (:  har),  G.  2590;  2742  ; 
3770;  M.  1351  ;  dar^  N.  985.  With  the  exception  of  the  last 
example,  the  forms  occur  in  rhyme  in  the  metrical  texts.  The 
following  forms  of  the  pret.  are  also  found  :  ir  dursten  (:  furs- 
ten),  L.  N.  2909 ;  si  dursten  (:  fiirsten),  L.  N.  2943. 

Sollen  exhibits,  as  a  rule,  the  vowel  o.  The  characteristic 
umlaut  of  the  Alemanic  occurs,  however,  in  the  following  forms  : 
ich  sd'l^  Iv.  N.  2756  ;  s'dll^  N.  6712  ;  G.  p.  36,  31;  i'6>7(wo''l),  883  ;  sie 
sollent^  N.  4170;  G.  4895  ;  sellen  wir,  B.  xxi,  40. 

In  the  2d  sing.  ind.  the  older  fonn,  without  ^,  has  been 
retained,  The  only  exceptions  to  this  are  the  following ;  du 
solst,  N.  1132;  4357. 

Mbgen^  like  diirfen^  exhibits  the  Alemannic  tendency  to 
change  the  ii  to  0.  This  latter  is  the  prevailing  form  in  Mur- 
ner. At  the  same  time  the  older  it  forms  are  by  no  means 
infrequent.  We  have,  for  example,  in  all  persons  of  the  plural, 
II  it  forms  to  62  with  b.  In  the  3d  sing,  subj.,  15  instances  of 
milg  to  54  with  ni'dg ;  in  the  2d  sing,  subj.,  one  of  mug  est  ^  N. 
908,  to  three  of  mogst,  N.  6733  5  ^-  ^-  59^  5  ^-  ^^395  7-^  '^^^ 
one  instance  of  the  plural  occurring  in  S.  Z.  is  characterized  by 
absence  of  umlaut :  allestrafen  mogent^  S.  Z.  11 12.  In  addition, 
there  occur  in  the  other  works  the  following  cases  :  si  mogen^ 
B.  ix.  24 ;  ir  mogt^  B.  vii,  70.  The  inf.  occurs  only  as  7ndgen^ 
e.  g.:  Gu.  412,  29;  413,  16;  434,  32,  etc. 


'  So  in  Scheible.    Uhl  (v.  371 1)  writes  ino'hst. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  75 

It  is  perhaps  of  interest  in  this  connection  to  state  that  the 
derivative  adjective  occurs  only  with  ii :  miiglich^  N.  570  ;  B. 
xxix,  ^T^,  etc. 

The  preterite  forms  are  the  same  as  those  of  to-day.  In  one 
case  the  umlaut  of  the  subj.  is  written  as  e :  ich  mecht^  N.  2767. 

Milssen.  The  inf.  plur.  pres.  and  the  subj.  of  this  verb  exhibit 
the  characteristic  Alemannic  fronting  of  the  M.  H.  G.  diphthong 
He  to  ie^  e.  g.:  wir  miessen^  S.  Z.  974 ;  N.  1169  5  ^^^  ^ie  es  viieszi 
N.  1 126,  etc. 

B.  exhibits,  as  in  the  pret.  of  the  verbs  of  the  sixth  class  so 
also  here,  the  full  form  of  the  M.  H.  G.  diphthong,  e.  g.: 
Wer  baden  wel,  muosz  sich  besachen,  B.  iv,  i. 

(Continued  in  next  number.) 

Daniel  B.  Shumway. 

UNIVERSITY   OF   PENNSYLVANIA. 


DIE     PLATTDEUTSCHE     LITTERATUR 
NORDAMERIKA'S. 


Die  Norddeutschen,  in  deren  Adern  friesisches,  alt-  oder  nie- 
dersachsisches  und  wendisches  Bliit  zirkiilirt,  bilden  eine 
schlichte,  derbe,  treuherzige,  fleissige,  entschiedene  und  von 
einem  gewissen  Mutterwitz  beseelte  Rasse.  Diesen  Eigenschaf- 
ten  haben  sie  in  zahlreiclien  karakteristischen  Sprichwortern 
kernigen  Ausdruck  verliehen.  Die  Dichter,  welche  in  ihrem 
angestammten  Dialekte  sangen  und  das  Lob  ihrer  engeren  Hei- 
mat  verkiindeten,  konnten  stets  auf  ein  dankbares  Publikum 
rechnen.  Sind  nun  audi  die  drolligen  Schnurren  der  wackeren 
Reimschmiede  Bornemann  und  Balcht  so  ziemlich  der  Verges- 
senheit  anheim  gefallen,  so  sind  diesen  dafiir  in  Klaus  Groth, 
Fritz  Renter  und  dem  aus  Bremen  gebiirtigen  Emil  Rocco 
Nachfolger  entstanden,  deren  Ruf  weit  iiber  die  Grenzen 
ihres  Vaterlandes  gedrungen  ist,  und  deren  Leistungen  den 
Perlen  der  deutschen  Litteratur  zugezahlt  werden  miissen. 

Man  hat  vielfach  und  zwar  ohne  die  allergeringste  Begriin- 
dung  beliauptet,  dass  sich  der  Volksdialekt  nur  zur  Darstellung 
komischer  Vorfalle  eigne  ;  abgesehen  nun  davon,  dass  Hebel  und 
Burns  langst  das  Gegenteil  iiberzeugend  nachgewiesen  haben, 
so  braucht  man  nur  auf  die  unbestreitbare  Thatsache  hinzudeu. 
ten,  dass  sich  das  Volk  da,  wo  das  Hochdeutsche  noch  nicht 
Mode  ist,  im  taglichen  Verkehr  nur  des  altgewohnten  Dialektes 
bedient  und  mithin  alle  seine  Gefiihle,  die  traurigen  sowohl  wie 
die  freudigen,  in  demselben  ausdriickt.  Reines  Hochdeutsch 
wird  eigentlich  nur  in  Schulen,  in  Theatern  und  auf  den  Kan- 
zeln  gesprochen ;  im  vertraulichen  Umgang  bedienen  sich  selbst 
die  Gebildeten  des  Dialektes,  besonders  in  Norddeutschland,  wo 
man  das  Plattdeutsche  haufig  in  Gerichtssalen  hort. 

Auch  die  zahlreichen  in  Amerika  ansassigen  Plattdeutschen 
haben  ihre  urspriingliche  Liebe  zur  alten  Heimat  treu  bewahrt, 
und  die  Pflege  ihrer  Eigenart  durch  Vereine,  Volksfeste,  Zei- 
tungen  und  sonstige  litterarische  Erzeugnisse  erfolgreich  gefor- 


Karl  Knortz.  77 

dert.  Besonders  wird  seit  ungefalir  sechs  und  zwanzig  Jahren 
alljahrlicli  in  New  York  ein  allgemeines  plattdeutsches  Volksfest 
gefeirt,  als  dessen  poetischer  Befiirworter  hauptsachlich  Niklas 
Biitensch'dn  eine  gewisse  Popularitat  erlangte,  so  dass  er  es  auf 
Grund  derselben  wohl  wagen  konnte,  seine  gesammelten  Gele- 
genheits-Gedichte  1886  zu  New  York,  unter  dem  Titel  Uns' 
Mitttersprak  in  Atizerika  erscheinen  zu  lassen.  Das  diesem 
bescheidenen  Bandchen  vorgestellte  Bild  des  Verfassers  zeigt 
uns  einen  gutmiitigen,  heiter  in  die  Welt  blickenden  Hanove- 
rauer,  dessen  "  Bausbackigkeit "  sicherlich  nicht  auf  den  Genuss 
von  Gansewein  oder  das  Studium  der  Weltschmerz-Litteratur 
znruckzufiihren  ist. 

Butenschon  bedient  sich  des  Reuter'schen  Piatt.  In  dem 
ersten,  von  edler  Heimatliebe  durchdrungenen,  zart  empfun- 
denen  Gediclite  vom  Lilttje  Placken  Eer  besingt  er  das  Platzchen 
Erde,  woselbst  er  den  ersten  Kuss  und  die  ersten  Ohrfeige 
bekommen.  Schliesslich  ermahnt  er  dann  seine  Landsleute, 
auch  in  der  neuen  Heimat  ihre  historische  Sprache  am  haus- 
lichen  Herde  zu  pflegen.  Wichtige  Ereignisse  besingt  er  nicht ; 
auch  kann  er  den  bedeutenden  Dichtern  nicht  zugezahlt  werden. 
Was  er  aber  schildert,  sei  es  nun  das  schnell  voriibergehende 
SchmoUen  eines  jungen  Ehepaares,  die  Freude  der  Kinder  iiber 
"  de  Kaujees  "  (Weihnachten),  die  Klage  einer  alten  Jungfer  iiber 
ihren  im  Kriege  gefallenen  Brautigam,  oder  sonstige  Scenen  des 
alltaglichen  Lebens,  immer  ist  er  anmutig,  harmlos  und  edel, 
so  dass  man  sein  Biichlein  mit  innerer  Befriedip-unsf  aus  der 
Hand  legt.  Wenn  er  "  sin  Deern  "  zum  plattdeutschen  Volks- 
und  Verbriiderungsfeste  der  Schleswig-Holsteiner,  Oldenburger, 
Hamburger,  Bremer,  Mecklenburger  und  Hannoveraner  einla- 
det,  so  beschenkt  er  sie  vorher  mit  "  Hanschen,  Hoot,  Knopund 
Manschatten ;"  und  wenn  er  in  dieser  "  Deern  "  audi  spater 
keinen  Engel  von  Weib  bekommt,  so  trostet  er  sich  damit,  dass 
die  Engel  iiberhaupt  aus  der  Mode  gekommen  sind,  und  dass  sie 

"  Sporsam  is,  ja,  dat's  wohr, 
Se  dreit  den  Cent  wohl  dreemol  um; 
Mi  is  dat  awers  lang  all  klor, 
Dat  ick  dorbi  im  Vordeel  bin." 


78  Die  Plattdeiitschc  Litteratiir  Nordamerika' s. 

Der  in  Brooklyn  ansassige  Wilhelm  Diescher^  der  sicli  in  sei- 
ner Vaterstadt  Hamburg  durch  die  dort  1881  in  zweiter  Auflage 
erschienenen,  in  hochdeutscher  Spraclie  verfassten  Erstlingsbli'i- 
theii^  in  welchen  er  seine  Liebe  fiir  Freiheit,  Recht  und  Frieden 
einen  etwas  hausbackenen  Ausdruck  verlieh,  einen  besclieidenen 
Namen  machte,  liess  1887  in  seinem  neuen  Wohnorte  platt- 
deutscli  geschriebene  "  spassige  un  annere  Gedichte  un  Vertel- 
lungen"  unter  dem  Titel  DritUige  Kinner  ans  Licht  treten.  In 
dem  Nachwort  zu  diesem  iiber  vier  liundert  Seiten  starken 
Bande  klagt  er,  dass  sein  geliebter  heimatlicher  Dialekt  allmah- 
lich  ans  den  oberen  Volksschichten  verschwande  und  hauptsach- 
lich  nur  noch  von  den  auf  dem  Lande  lebenden  Bauern  in  Ehren 
gehalten  werde.  "Aber,"  fragt  er,  "sind  wir  zuletzt  nicht  alle 
Bauern?  Der  Eine  baut  ein  Hiihnerhaus,  der  Andere  einen 
Palast ;  der  Eine  baut  eine  Kirche,  der  Andere  einen  Schafstall ; 
der  Eine  baut  ein  Kloster,  der  Andere  ein  Findelhaus — jeder 
baut  etwas,  keiner  aber  den  Himmel  auf  Erden  oder  eine  Leiter, 
die  in  denselben  hinaufRihrt,  so  dass  gar  mancher  den  Weg 
dahin  verfehlt." 

Diescher's  Orthographie  richtet  sich  genau  nacli  dem  Ham- 
burger Piatt.  Wenn  man  in  andern  plattdeutschen  Schriftstel- 
lern  "graun,  sank,  greuter,  Opleusing "  liest,  so  gebraucht 
er,"  gron,  sot,  groter  Oplosing."  Die  Konsonanten  /,  /,  /&,  b 
werden  im  betreffenden  Dialekt  zu  f^  z^  ch  and  w.  R  hin- 
ter  a  wird  nicht  besonders  ausgesprochen,  docli  wird  der  Vokal 
dadurch  gedehnt.  Der  Genitiv  wird  meist  durch  das  riick- 
beziigliche  Possessivum  ausgedriickt,  z.  B.  "  dem  Onkel  sin  Hus," 
u.  s.  w.  Dies  geschieht  iibrigens  in  vielen  Volksdialekten. 
Der  Plural  wird  einfach  durch  Anhangung  von  s  oder  n  gebil- 
det.  Das  Hilfszeitwort  "  haben "  wird  wie  folgt  konjugiert : 
Pras.,  Ich  heww  ;  Inipcrf.^  Ich  harr ;  Perf.^  Ich  heww  hadt ; 
Pltisqu.^  Ich  harr  hadt ;  Put.  /.,  Ich  warr  hebben ;  Put.  11.^  Ich 
war  hadt  hebben. 

Die  meisten  der  Diescher'schen  Kinner  bestehen  wie  Renter's 
Lduschen  ans  gereimten  Anekdoten,  wie  sie  Liittslagsliid,  Klu- 
tensteller  (SchoUentreter),  Warbeerklocken  (Leute  mit  schlecht 


Karl  Knortz.  79 

gehenden  Uhren)  oder  solchen,  denen  die  Peterzill  (gute  Laune) 
verhagelt  ist  und  die  derhalb  Hiihn  iin  Perdiihn  (Alles)  zer- 
schlagen  woUen,  gewohnlich  gefalleii.  Wie  alle  seine  cis-  and 
transatlantischen  Kollegen  so  ist  audi  unser  Dichter  ein 
geschworener  Feind  unnotiger  Aufregung. 

"  Det  Abends  (inner  de  Bauken 
So'ne  liitje  Piep  to  smauken 
Is  doch  so  recht  gemiidich." 

Er  erziihlt  uns  heitere  Abderitenstreiche  plattdeutscher  "  Foar- 
tenmakers,  Plaggensteckers,"  und  weltverbessernder,  am  Stamm- 
tisch  hockender  Kannegiesser.  Freudig  singend,  wie  der  be- 
kannte  "Johann,  der  munt're  Seifensieder,"  erfiillt  er  die  Pflich- 
ten  seines  Berufes,  und  wenn  er  Abends  keine  Lust  hat  in  Pam- 
pischen  (Pantoffeln)  und  Sloprock  zu  schliipfen,  dann  eilt  er  zu 
Bier  oder  Wein : 

"  Bi  diitsche  Utduer,  diitschen  Fliet 
Lat't  wi  en  diitsches  Leed  erklingen, 
Un  leggt  wi't  Handwarkstiig  bi  Sied 
Lat't  Abends  wi  en  Groschen  springen; 
Wi  nehmt  ja  doch,  siind  wi  hier  quitt, 
Un  klappt  wi  af,  ken'n  Penning  mit." 

In  dem  Gedicht  "  Nasen  "  hat  er  eine  grosse  Anzahl  platt- 
deutscher Bezeichnungen  fiir  die  Nase  zusammengestellt ;  z.  B. 
Gurk,  Russell,  Riickorgan,  Gewiirzrauber,  Stiiff,  Gebel,  Zink, 
Snabel,  Gumpel,  Bummelaasch,  Piint 

"  Un  wat  noch  siinst  fiir  Utdriick  sund." 

Seine  schlicht  erzahlten  Jagdgeschichten  wiirden  dem  seligen 
Miinchhausen  zur  Ehre  gereichen.  In  dem  Gedichte  Englisch  is 
doch  nit  ganz  Plattd'utsch  berichtet  er  die  Abenteuer,  die  ein 
Schusterjunge,  der  in  seiner  Heimat  keinen  ordentlichen  "  Ste- 
bel "  machen  konnte  und  deshalb  mit  eineni  Wechsel  nach 
der  neuen  Welt  abgeschoben  wurde,  in  New  York  erlebte. 

Albert  Arnemann^  der  sich  stolz  einen  Schiiler  Renter's 
nennt,  Hess  1875  seine  plattdeutschen  Schnurren  imter  dem 
Titel  Fierabeiid  zu  Davenport  in  Iowa  erscheinen.     Das  Einlei- 


8o  Die  Plattdeiitschc  Litieratiu'  Nordanicrika's. 

tungsgedicht,  nach  welchem  die  ganze  Sammlung  genannt  ist, 
und  das  vielfach  an  Rebel's  IViichtcryiif  erinnert,  ist  eine  gelun- 
gene,  von  gesunder,  allerdings  etwas  spiessbiirgerlicher  Moral 
durchdrungene  Leistung.  Audi  das  Jagerlatein  redet  unser 
Dichter  so  gelaufig  wie  seine  Muttersprache.  Das  langere  origi- 
nelle  Gedicht  De  Utwanderer  erzahlt  von  fiinf  unternehmnngs- 
lustigen  Plattdeutschen,  die  der  heimatlichen  Verhaltnisse  iiber- 
driissig,  nach  Omaha  answanderten  und  dort  das  gesuchte 
Gliick  auch  wirklich  fanden.  Der  eine  derselben  war  Musi- 
kant,  der  zweite  Schulmeister,  der  dritte  Schmied  ;  doch  ver- 
stand  derselbe  ausser  seinem  Handwerk  auch  noch  die  Kunst, 
mittelst  Zympetie  krankes  Vieh  zu  kurieren.  Der  vierte  war 
Barbier, 

"  Dat  Tahnrutrit'n  verstiinn  hei  sihr 

Schroppkopp  setten,  Plaster  srniren, 

Un  de  Klistirbiiss  tau  hantiren 

Verstiinn  hei  ut  den  Fundament 

Dorher  de  Liid  'm  Doktor  nennt." 

Vom  Funften,  dem  wackeren  Hans  Jiirgen  Bullerjahn,  wird 
gesagt,  dass  er  lesen  und  schreiben  konnte  und  in  Folge  dieses 
Umstandes  als  gelehrter  Mann  gait.  Deshalb  machte  er  denn 
auch  bei  der  Hochzeit  seiner  Reisegenossen,  die  unter  keiner 
Bedingung  als  Junggesellen  nach  Nebraska  ziehen  wollten,  den 
"  Mater  von  't  Plasir  "  und  brachte  einen  liingeren  Toast  aus, 
in  dem  er  zum  Schlusse  feierlich  versprach,  nach  fiinf  Jahren 
zuriickzukehren  und  sich  ein  plattdeutsches  Ehegespons  zu 
holen. 

Als  die  jungen  Ehepaare  der  Reihe  nach  die  Stuten-  und  Saut- 
milhwochen  und  schliesslich  die  Zitter-,  Growwabrod-  und 
Schwernotswochen  durchgemacht  liatten,  begaben  sie  sich  auf 
die  Reise  nach  Amerika  und  kamen  auch  wohlbehalten  in 
Omaha  an. 

Bullerjahn  hielt  sein  Versprechen  ;  er  kehrte  nach  Ablauf  von 
fiinf  Jahren  in  seine  Heimat  zuriick,  wahlte  sich  eine  dralle 
Frau  und  gab  auf  dem  Hochzeitsfeste  seine  und  seiner  Freunde 
Erlebnisse  zum  Besten.     Von  sich  berichtete  er,  dass  er  zuerst 


Karl  Knortz.  8 1 

in  einer  Erdhiitte  gewohnt,  fleissig  gearbeitet  und  gespart  und 
sich  allmahlich  Ochsen,  Kiihe  und  Pferde  und  seine  eigene 
Farm  angeschafft  habe.  Von  dem  Musikanten  Hans  Puter 
erzahlte  er  auf  Befragen,  dass  er,  seitdem  er  sich  "  Perfesser " 
der  Musik  nenne,  einen  einfachen  Farmer  nicht  mehr  kenne. 

"  Hei  is  Musikperfesser 
Von  noch  siw  Unner-Perfessoren, 
Die  ok  in  Deutschland  sund  geboren; 
Hir  Jahrmarktsmusikanten  wiren, 
Dort  blasen  s'nu  ut  annere  Hiiren 
Sie  reden  gelehrt  von  Strauss  un  Hayden 
Un  konnen  derbi  kein  Not  unerscheiden, 
Un  wat  sin  Fru  is,  Jettchen  Hauhn, 
Hett  bios  man  sid'ne  Kleeder  an. 
Plattdiitsch  seggt's  kanns  nich  mehrspreken 
Un  deit  nun  englisch  radebreken." 

Aus  dem  Schulmeister  ist  natiirlich  ein  Pastor  geworden. 

"  De  is  gahn  dort  bi  de  Mucker 
Trinkt  Water  bios,  un  Thee  mit  Zucker 
Heimlich  dor  drinkt  hei  ok  sin'n  Win, 
Lett  awer,  as  Recept  fiir  Medizin 
'N  sick  verschriewen  ut  de  Afteuk. 
Ja,  de  is  verslagen  un  gescheut! 
Drum  is  hei  durt  Paster,  en  vvicht'gen, 
Nich  as  hier  uns'  Paster  so'n  richt'gen, 
Ne!  So'n  Heuchler,  so'n  Ogenverdreiher 
Un  deid  vor'n  Leid'n,  as  em  Kasteier 
Von  sinen  gottlichen  Liw. 
Hett  iim  sick  ok  tau'nTidverdriw 
'N  Hupen  von  liisternen  Bedseucherinnen 
Von  awergesnappten  Hiilmeierinnen." 

Der  Barbier  ist  in  Amerika  zum  Doctor  avancirt. 

"  Hei  nennt  sich  siilwst  dort  Doktor  Zahn 
Hir  red'n  wi'n  tau'n  Spass  so  an, 
Up  den  Kopp  an  hoch  Angstrohr, 
Vatermorder  bit  ant  Uhr, 
Brillen  ok  von  Fensterglass 
Drbggt  hei — un  ahn  Unnerlass 
Red't  hei  von  Waterkur  un  von  Diat 
Als  ob  de  Weisheit  mit  Leppeln  hei  att." 
6 


82  Die  Plattdeiitsche  Litteratur  Nordavierika's. 

Auf  den  Schmied  hingegen  ist  BuUerjahn  gut  zu  sprechen. 

"  Tvvors  drivvwt  hei  ok  noch  Zympeti, 
En  ok  en  Bitschen  Homepati, 
Doch  dat  is  mal  sin  Steckenpird 
Wovon  ein  Keiner  mehr  kurirt." 

Zurn  Schlusse  erklart  BuUerjahn,  dass  er,  trotzdem  er  bereits 
das  amerikanisclie  Biirgerrecht  erworben,  doch  ein  achter  Deut- 
scher  bleiben  werde. 

Gicstaz'  Holthiiscii  schrieb  seine  Ole  Erinncritngcn  (New  York, 
1876)  im  Bremer  Dialekt.  Wie  Butenschon  so  hat  auch  er  seinem 
Luttjet  Dorp  ein  gemiitreiches,  von  Heimweh  angekrankeltes 
Gedicht  gewidmet.  Der  Hauptinhalt  seines  Werkes  besteht 
jedoch  aus  Prosa,  Humoresken  namlich,  die  sich  vorzugsweise 
auf  die  toUen  Jugendstreiche  des  Verfassers  beziehen, 

Karl  Milliters  Biichlein  Nusindwir  in  Amerika  (Cincinnati, 
1878)  is  das  Werk  eines  hochbegabten,  feinfuhlenden  Dichters. 
Es  behandelt  das  idyllische  StilUeben  eines  einfachen,  platt- 
deutschen  Holzhackers,  der  sich  deshalb  in  Amerika  gliicklich 
fiihlt,  weil  er  bestandig  Arbeit  hat,  und  well  es  ihm  und  seiner 
treuen  Fieke  nicht  an  dem  Nothwendigsten  fehlt.  Ihm  ist  es 
in  seiner  friiheren  Heimat  unstreitig  recht  bitter  ergangen,  denn 
wenn  er  einen  dicken  Urwaldbaum  umzuhauen  hat,  dann  sagt  er : 

"  Ich  denk,  dei  Boom  is  unse  Graf 
Un  wenn  ick  em  denn  so  tau  Straf 
For  sien  unminschliches  Begehr 
Mit  jeden  Hau, 
Den  ick  dau, 
Dei  Jack  utsmeer, 

Denn  hat  mien  Hass  'nen  Gegenstand 
Un  kiimmt  nich  ute  Rand  un  Band." 

Doch  dieses  Gliick  wird  plotzlich  durch  einen  hanstwurstmar- 
sig  gekleideten,  aus  Deutschland  stammenden  Handlungsdiener 
gestort,  der  ihn  anfleht,  ihm  auf  seine  goldene  Uhr,  ein  Geschenk 
aus  lieber  Hand,  hundert  Dollars  auf  einige  Wochen  vorzustre- 
cken.  Da  Jochen  selbst  keine  solche  Summe  besitzt,  so  fiihrt  er 
den  Fremden  zu  einem  Nachbar,  der  sich  dann  auch  bereden 


Karl  Knortz.  83 

lasst,  das  verlangte  Geld  auf  die  wertvolle  Uhr  zu  leihen.  Als 
dieser  dann  spater  ausfindet,  dass  er  schmahlich  betrogen  worden 
war,  lasst  er  den  biederen  Jochen  verhaften.  Fieke  eilt  ihm  mit 
ihrem  Hunde  bei  Sturm  und  Wetter  nach,  verirrt  sicli  und 
stiirzt  in  einen  Abgrund,  aus  dem  sie  noch  reclitzeitig  gerettet 
wird.  Bald  darauf  kehrt  bei  dem  scliwer  gepriiften  Ehepaar 
die  friihere  Ruhe  wieder  ein  ;  Jochen  arbeitet  fleissig  weiter  und 
seine  Familie  erfreut  sich  mit  der  Zeit  eines  betrachtlichen 
Zuwachses. 

"  Is  Fieken  's  Abends  noch  so  meud 
Denn  singen  dei  Jungs  nen  diitsches  Lied 
Dat  makt  dat  Hart  ehr  werrer  vviet, 
Sei  spalen  nen  Schapskopp  un'n  Hund, 
Nen  swarten  Peiter  in  de  Rund, 
Sei  stoten  eis  an  un  drinken  ehr  tau 
Un  wiinschen  ehr  dann  wohlslapende  Rauh." 

Der  Verfasser  dieser  im  pommerschen  Dialekt  geschriebenen, 
leider  etwas  zu  breit  ausgesponnenen  Idylle  war  friiher  Geist- 
licher  im  Staate  Indiana. 

Karl  Knortz. 

EVANSVILLE,    InD. 


GESANG  NACH  AMERIKA  ANNO    1777. 


The  lyrical  phase  of  the  German's  part  in  the  American  Revo- 
lution has  been  so  overshadowed  by  the  military  importance  of 
the  so-called  "  Hessian  "  troops,  that  even  onr  historians  have 
been  content  to  unroll  before  us  columns  of  powder-smoke,  for- 
getting that  the  soldier's  bravery  has  from  time  immemorial 
required  the  stimulus  of  martial  music.  The  German  mercena- 
ries of  the  Revolution  were  not  an  exception  to  this  rule.  It 
were  strange  that  the  age  of  the  Great  Frederick,  which  called 
forth  such  martial  strains  as  Gleim's  Preiiszische  Kriegslieder 
z'oii  einem  Grenadier^  Ch.  E.  v.  Kleist's  Ode  an  die  pretiszische 
Armee^  and  Daniel  Schubert's  Aitf  Friedrich  den  Grossen^ 
should  send  thousands  of  German  soldiers  to  the  untried  battle- 
fields of  America  without  the  cheer  of  martial  songs.  But 
what  songs  did  these  Germans  sing  as  they  marched  forth  to 
service  under  the  English  flag  ?  When  Tetzner  made  his  collec- 
tion ^  of  lyrics  relating  to  German  history,  he  selected  to  repre- 
sent this  period  many  poems  written  by  poets  of  the  present 
century.  While  this  is  interesting  as  reflecting  the  impression 
of  the  great  battles  of  Frederick  the  Great  upon  later  poets,  it 
would  certainly  be  far  more  interesting  and  instructive  to  read 
the  actual  songs  to  which  the  soldiers  of  the  time  kept  martial 
step.  Many  such  martial  effusions  of  the  time,  we  know,  were 
sung  by  the  German  mercenaries  in  Amerika  on  specific  occa- 
sions. Stephen  Papp  gives,  at  the  close  of  his  Geschichte  des 
Nort-Amerikanischen  Kriegs  (1777-1783),^  a  poem  entitled  Das 
Lied  von  Aiismarsch^  which  may  have  been  sung  on  the  occa- 
sion of  the  departure  of  the  Bayreuth  regiment  in  1777.  Dohla's 
Tagebiich^  a  similar  chronicle  of  the  Revolution,  mentions  a 

'  Deutsche  Geschichte  in  Liedern  deutschcr  Dichter.  Leipzig,  Reklam.,  1892. 

^  In  MS.,  but  will  appear  soon  in  the  pages  oi  Atnericana  Gertnanica. 

^  Published  in  part  by  H.  A.  Rattermann  in  Deutsch-Amerikanisch.  Magazin. 


M.   D.  Learned.  85 

poem  by  Braun,  an  Ansbach  grenadier,  with  the  following  title  : 
Ein  Lied  zvelches  auf  die  Bestiirmung  und  Einnahme  des  Forts 
Mont-Gonieiy^  den  6ten  Octobris  Anno  lYJJ^  etc.;  another  poem 
by  Friedrich  und  Sichart,  entitled  Ein  Lied  iiber  die  herzoglich 
Braiinschzueig.  Tmppen  nach  Avicrika  in  engl.  Soldgehejidvorn 
Jahr  lyyd  bis  z///,  etc.;  ^  another,  by  Apel,  entitled  Ei7t  Lied, 
welches  an/  die  Ein-  tmd  Ansfahrt  der  Franzbsischen  Flotte 
zu  New-Port,  etc.,  lyjSf  and  another  reprinted  in  note  below. 

The  Gesang  nach  Amerika,  printed  below  from  a  manuscript 
copy  made  from  the  original  in  Bayreuth,  at  the  instance  of  Mr. 
J.  G.  Rosengarten,  and  kindly  given  to  me  by  him  for  publication, 
is  another  song  written  on  and  for  the  occasion  of  the  departure 
of  the  Brandenburg-Ansbach-Baireuth  auxiliary  troops  for  Amer- 
ica. Whether  this  or  the  song  given  by  Papp  was  actually 
sung  by  the  departing  troops  or  not  we  are  left  to  conjecture 
from  the  somewhat  indefinite  titles.  The  dramatic  character  of 
the  poem  would  argue  against  the  probability  of  its  having 
been  sung.  In  any  event,  the  poem  here  printed  is  an  interest- 
ing contribution  to  the  contemporaneous  history  of  the  Revolu- 
tion and  reflects  in  bold  outlines  the  spirit  of  that  time.  The 
motive  of  the  poem  is  unmistakable,  being  clearly  an  attempted 
justification  of  the  mission  of  the  German  mercenaries  to  fight 
the  battles  of  the  Englishman  in  far-off  America.  The  senti- 
ment to  which  the  poet  appeals  is  that  of  gratitude  to  the  British, 
who,  under  King  George  II  and  his  son  (the  Duke  of  Cum- 
berland), had  aided  in  repelling  the  French  at  the  battle  of  Det- 
tingen  (June  27,  1743),  forcing  them  to  recross  the  Main,  and, 
for  the  time,  to  evacuate  Germany.  The  fact,  too,  that  George 
II  had  married  Caroline  of  Brandenburg-Ansbach,^  furnished 
the  requisite  historical  basis  for  the  poet's  reverting  to  this 
event,  which  had  transpired  more  than   a  generation    before, 

^  Cf.  O.  Seidensticker,  The  First  Century  of  German  Printing  in  America,  p. 

99- 

^  Ibid.,  p.  103. 

^  Green,  J.  R.  A  Short  History  of  the  English  People,  p.  702. 


86  Gesaug  Nach  Amcrika  Anno  ij^y. 

under  the  reign  of  a  former  king,  as  the  motive  of  his  poem, 
without  further  incidental  detail. 

The  literary  character  of  the  poem  reveals  more  than  usual 
erudition  in  the  poet,  who  is  acquainted  with  Homer,  as  appears 
from  the  reference  in  strophe  3  : 

"  Wie  Hektor's  Gattin  vor  dem  Streit,"- 
and  at  the  same  time  has  a  familiarity  with  German  antiquity 
(strophe  6) : 

"  Schvveigt  aufgebrachte  Tochter  Teuts," 

and  with  the  provincial  details  of  German  history,  as  in  strophe 
13,  where  Guelf  and  Hessian  are  employed  with  good  effect ;  like- 
wise with  Spanish  literature  as  is  seen  in  his  reference  to  Guz- 
man, who  had  received  fresh  literary  treatment  at  the  hands  of 
Moratin  in  this  same  year  (1777)  under  the  title  of  "  Guzman  el 
bueno."  This  work  of  Moratin  had  possibly  found  its  way  to 
German  military  circles  thus  lending  new  force  to  the  doctrine 
of  Guzman :  "  Mas  pesa  el  rey  que  la  sangre"  (Guevara.). 


Note. — The  following  poem  from  Ditfurth,  D.  Volkslieder  d.  77  u.  18  Jhs., 
presents  the  material  reverse  of  the  motive  of  our  Gesang. 
DIE  HESSEN  NACH  AMERIKA, 

1777. 

(MCiNDLICH,   1829  VON   EINEM  ALTEN  SoLDATEN   IN   KaSSEL.) 

I. — Frisch  auf,  ihr  Briider,  in's  Gevvehr  ! 
's  geht  nach  Anierika  ! 
Versammelt  ist  schon  unser  Heer, 

Vivat,  Viktoria  ! 
Das  rothe  Gold,  das  rothe  Gold, 
Das  kommt  man  nur  so  hergerollt, 
Da  giebt's  anch,  da  giebt's  auch 
da  giebt's  auch  bessern  Sold  ! 

2. — Das  Leben  hatten  vvir  hier  satt, 
Wir  wollen  in  das  Feld. 
Weil  man  ja  kaum  zu  fressen  hat, 
Dazu  so  vvenig  Geld  ; 
Und  einen  Tag  und  alle  Tag 
Dieselbe  Flag,  dieselbe  Klag : 
Spiesz  ruthen,  Spiesz  ruthen,  Spiesz  ruthen, 
dasz  es  kracht ! 

4. — Adjo,  mein  Hessenland,  Adjo  ! 
Jetzt  kommt  Amerika, 
Und  unser  Gliick  geht  in  die  Hoh — 
Goldberge  sind  allda  ! 

Dazu,  dazu  in  Feindesland, 
Was  einem  fehlt,  das  nimmt  die  Hand, 
Das  ist  ein,  das  ist  ein,  das  ist  ander  Stand  !  " 


GESANG! 

BEY 

DEM  ABMARSCH 

DER 

HOCHFURSTLICH 

BRANDENBURG-ANSPACH-BAIREUTHISCHEN 

AUXILIARTRUPPEN 

NACH 

AMERIKA. 

ANNO  1777. 


Sein  junger  Morgen  dammert  schon 

Der  Aufbruchstag  ist  da  ! 
Die  Trommel  larmt,  ihr  lauter  Ton 

Ruft :  Nach  Amerika  ! 

Ihr  Schall  dringt  furchtbar  durch  das  Ohr 

Ins  elterliche  Herz 
Aus  diesem  bricht  ins  Aug  hervor 

Ein  zugelloser  Schmerz. 

Wie  Hektors  Gattin  vor  dem  Streit 

Die  Arme  um  Ihn  schlug 
Und  wie  nach  Ihm  voll  ZartHchkeit 

Das  Kind  sah,  das  sie  trug. 

So  fallen  Kinder,  Gattinnen 

Den  Kriegern  um  den  Hals, 
Und  Schreyn  gequiilt  von  Andungen 

Des  kiinftigen  Trauerfalls  : 

' '  Was  gehn  uns  England[s]  Colonien 

Was  die  Rebellen  an  ? 
Was  soil  in  andere  Welten  ziehn 

Kind,  Vater,  Ehemann?" 


88  Gesang  Nach  Amerika  Ajuw  i ']']"]. 

Schweigt  aufgebrachte  Tochter  Teuts 
Besiegt  den  irrigen  Wahn  ! 

Was  vvir  jetzt  thun  hat  seiner  Seits 
Der  Britte  langst  gethan. 

Er  sah  den  stolzen  Gallier 

Uns  Tod  u.  Knechtschaft  drohn  ; 

Und  grosmuthsvoll  kam  Er  daher, 
Befreite  uns  davon. 

Auf  wilden  Wellen  nahten  sich 
Die  Heifer,  Teutschen[m]  Strand  ; 

Und  wie  ein  Gott  von  Himmel  stieg 
Ihr  Konig  selbst  ans  Land  ! 

Georg  erschien  :  Ihm  folgete 

Die  Waffen  in  der  Hand 
Der  Stolz  der  Brittischen  Armee 

Sein  Sohn,  Held  Cumberland  ! 

Und  alle  fochten  voller  Wuth 

Germania  !  fur  dich 
Erfochten  drauf  mit  Tod  und  Blut 

Dir,  Freiheit  und  den  Sieg. 

Ha  !  solchen  Freunden  beyzustehn, 

Mit  gluhendem  Gesicht 
Auf  Ihre  Feinde  losz  zu  gehn 

1st  Edler  Teutschen  Pflicht. 

Ertullt  sie  Briider  ! — Eilt  zum  Streit, 
Dringt  in  des  Feindes  Reihn 

Mit  eines  Adlers  Leichtigkeit, 
Und  Lovven  Starke  ein. 

Befolgt  die  Bahn  in  dem  Gefecht 
Die  Guelff  und  Hesse  gieng  ; 

Denkt,  dasz  Ihr  dann,  den  Lorbeer  brecht 
Den  Guelfif  und  Hess'  empfing. 

Und  klopfet  fiihlbar  dem  das  Fell 

In  decisiver  Schlacht 
Der  herrschsuchtsvoU  als  ein  Rebell 

Gehorsam  aufgesagt. 


M.   D.   Learned.  89 

Geht,  wie  ein  Wetter  vom  Mittag 

Auf  Wall  unci  Schanzen  losz 
Doch  zeigt  auch  nach  der  Niederlag 

Euch,  dem  Besiegten,  grosz. 

Und  schenkt  dem,  der  um  Gnade  schreyt 

Ein  liebreich  Angesicht 
Es  ziemet  Gusmanns  Grausamkeit 

Nur  Tygern,  Menschen  nicht. 

Eilt ! — macht  die  vollen  Kocher  leer  ! — 

Sieg  folge  jedem  Schritt  ; 
Des  Todes  Angst  rausch  vor  euch  her 

Und  Schrecken  Gottes  mit ! 

Mit  Ihm  nur,  konnt  Ihr  Thaten  thun, 

Ihn  furchte  euer  Heer  ! 
Er  spricht  •*  so  musz  der  Sturmwind  ruhn 

Er  spricht :  so  schweigt  das  Meer. 

Traut  Ihm  ! — Aus  gottlichen[m]  Gebiet 

Sezt  Ihr  die  Fiisse  nie : 
Es  geht  zum  Nadir  von  Zenich 

Des  Hochsten  Monarchic  ! 

In  seinen[m]  Namen  ziehet  izt 

Aus  unserm  Welttheil  aus  ; 
Und  kofiit  von  Ihn  [Ihm]  gefiihrt,  geschiitzt 

Gekront  mit  Sieg  nach  Hausz  ! 

Ihr  kommt ! — Ha  !  welch  ein  Jubelton 

Erschallet  iiberall  ? 
Der  frohe  Vater  sieht  den  Sohn 

Die  Gattin  den  Gemahl ! 

M.  D.  Learned. 

UNIVERSITY  OF   PENNSYI,VANIA, 
PHII,ADEI.PHIA. 


REVIEWS. 


Carlyle's  Sartor  Resartus. — Edited  with  Inti-oduction  and  Com- 
mentary, by  Archibald  MacMechan,  Professor  of  Enghsh  in 
Dalhousie  College,  Halifax,  N.  S.  Pp.  Ixxi,  429.  Boston  :  Ginn 
&  Co.      The  AthencBuin  Press.     1896. 

The  task  Professor  MacMechan  has  set  himself  as  Editor  of  Sartor 
Resartus  is,  he  states,  threefold  :  "to  make  a  book,  which  is  admitted 
to  be  worthy  of  study  and  has  the  name  of  being  dark,  easier  of  com- 
prehension to  the  average  undergraduate  and  general  reader  ;  to  show 
clearly  and  in  detail  the  relations  between  this  spiritual  autobiography, 
and  the  actual  life  of  Carlyle,  which  have  hitherto  been  either  vaguely 
stated  or  only  suspected  to  exist ;  and  to  demonstrate  the  process  by 
which  the  book  grew."  The  first  part  of  the  task  has  been  performed 
chiefly  in  the  Notes,  the  second  in  the  Introduction,  and  the  third  in 
both  Notes  and  Introduction. 

In  the  Introduction  Professor  MacMechan  briefly  sketches  the  inci- 
dents of  Carlyle's  life  as  they  group  themselves  round  the  production 
and  pubhcation  of  Sartor,  and  considers  in  considerable  detail  the 
literary  structure  of  the  work,  its  relation  to  its  sources  and  to  Car- 
lyle's personal  experiences,  its  style  and  its  contents. 

The  sources  of  Sartor  are  shown  to  be  (i)  the  journal  Carlyle  kept 
at  Craigenputtoch  from  1828-30 — this  is  the  most  important  ;  (2) 
his  novel  Wotton  Reinfred ;  (3)  his  essays,  notably  the  Signs  of  the 
Times ;  (4)  his  translations  from  the  German.  The  treatment  of  the 
Blumine  episode  is  admirable  ;  the  conclusion  that  Blumine  is  not  an 
actual  person  but  an  idealization,  constructed  from  Margaret  Gordon, 
Catherine  Fitzpatrick,  and  Jane  Welsh  is  the  most  reasonable  yet 
arrived  at. 

The  most  interesting  section  of  the  Introduction  for  the  student  of 
Germanics  is  the  discussion  of  Carlyle's  relation  to  Richter  in  the  for- 
mation of  his  style.  Thoreau  started  and  Lowell  repeated  the  charge 
that  Carlyle  modelled  his  style  on  Richter.  This  has  been  denied  by 
Carlyle  himself,  by  Froude,  Saintsbury,  and  others  ;  and  now  Professor 
MacMechan  endeavours,  by  a  careful  and  detailed  analysis  of  the 
styles  of  both  authors,  to  show  that  the  denial  was  just.  From  the 
early   letters  of    Carlyle,    written   before   he   knew    Richter   or   even 


James   W.    Tupper.  91 

German.  Professor  MacMechan  points  out,  in  illustrative  quotations, 
resemblances  to  the  matured  style  ;  these  he  regards  as  evidence  con- 
vincing enough  to  preclude  the  necessity  of  a  model  in  Richter. 

The  reality  of  these  resemblances  we  can  hardly  deny.   The  only  ques- 
tion is,  do  they  preclude  the  influence  of  Richter  in  further  estabhshing 
this  style  ?     Richter  is  not  directly  responsible  for  Carlyle's  style  ;  but  is 
he  not  responsible  for  the  full  development  of  this  style  ?  If  we  consider 
the  essays^  of  Carlyle,  now  for  the  first  time  published  in  book  form, 
which  were  contributed  to  Brewster's  Edinburgh  Encyclopcedia,  be- 
tween 1820  and   1824,  we  shall  not  be  able  to  detect  any  significant 
resemblances  to  his  later  work.     As  Mr.  John  Muir'  says  in  reference 
to  the  early  writings  up  to  1822  (p.  16):  "We  search  through  them  in 
vain  for  streaks  of  the  coming  Carlyle  ;  and  except  a  few  phrases  which 
occur  in  the  articles  in  the  Encyclopcedia  ...  the  writings  of  this  period 
give  no  decided  indication  of  their  author's  subsequent  career.     Thev 
are  mostly  interesting  when  viewed  in  the  light  of  raw  material,  out  of 
which  the  future  Carlyle  was  made  by  the  constraining  influence  of  Ger- 
man literature.     The   acquisition  of  the  German  language  not  only 
opened  up  a  whole  undreamt  of  and  hitherto  undiscovered  province  of 
knowledge  of  the  kind  best  suited  for  the  development  of  his  peculiar 
endowment,  but  it  helped  to  mould  his  literary  expression  into  forms 
adapted  for  conveying  the  thoughts  which  the  study  of  German  litera- 
ture had  suggested  and  shaped  in  his  mind."     The  style  of  Professor 
MacMechan' s  quotations  can  hardly  be  called  the  normal  style  of  Car- 
lyle at  this  period,  else  we  should  not  have  the  monotony  preserved 
throughout  these  biographical  essays.     The  themes  were  such  as  later 
would  have  called  forth  all  the  energy  and  brilliancy  of  his  rhetoric — 
Nelson,  Necker,  Newfoundland,  the  Netherlands,  the  Pitts— all  these 
were  inspiring  to  the  future  author  oi  Heroes  and  Hero  Worship.     That 
it  was  hackwork  is  true  ;  but  Carlyle  looked  upon  all  his  work  as  drud- 
gery, and  yet  was  able  to  produce  The  French  Revohdioyi.     To  attri- 
bute the  style  of  these  early  essays  to  the  levelling  hand  of  the  inscruta- 
ble editor  seems  to  be  begging  the  question. 

To  follow  Professor  MacMechan' s  example,  the  following  character- 
istic passages  might  be  quoted  from  Richter  to  show  their  relation  to 
the  style  of  Carlyle  : — 

1  Montaigne  and  Other  Essays,  Chiefly  Biographical,  by  Thomas  Carlyle  ; 
now  first  collected  with  foreword  by  S.  R.  Crockett.     London  :  James  Gowans 
and  Sons;  Philadelphia  :  J.  B.  Lippincott  Company,  1897. 
2  Thomas  Carlyle's  Apprenticeship,  by  John  Muir,  Glasgow,  1893. 


92  Reviews. 

"Da  froh  pochendes  Herz,  denk  ich  dann,  nicht  immer  so  wirst 
du  dich  unter  den  schwulen  Ehejahren  heben,  dein  eignes  Blut  wirst 
du  oft  vergiessen,  um  den  Weg  ins  Alter  fester  herabzukomnen,  wie 
sich  die  Gemsenjager  ans  Blut  ihrer  eignen  Fersen  halten  ;  "  ' 

"Dieses  metallne  Raderwerk  des  menschlichen  Getriebes,  dieses 
Zifferblattrad  an  unserm  Werthe ' '  ^  (describing  Geld). 

"  Seh'  ich  ihn  auf  einem  Oelberg  beten,  so  will  er  ein  Oelmiihle 
droben  bauen  ;  oder  weint  er  am  Bache  Kidron,  so  will  er  drinnen 
krebsen  oder  einen  hineinwerfen  ;""^ 

"  Lieber  Held! — Bleib  aber  einer  ! — Das  Schicksal  will,  wie  ich 
immer  deutlicher  merke,  allmalig  die  einzelnen  Stiicke  zu  einer  guten 
Drill-Maschine,  um  den  Diamanten  deines  Stoizismus  zu  durchbohren, 
in  einander  fiigen,  oder  auch  aus  Diirftigkeit,  hauslichen  Verdruss, 
Prozessen  und  Eifersucht  nach  und  nach  brittische  Scheer-  und  Seng- 
Maschinen  geschickt  zusammenbauen,  um  wie  am  feinsten  englischen 
Tuche  jede  kleine  falsche  Faser  wegzuscheeren  und  wegzusengen. 
Wenn  dergleichen  geschieht,  so  komme  nur  als  ein  so  herrlicher 
englischer  Zeug  aus  der  Presse,  als  je  einer  auf  die  Leipziger  Tuch- 
und  Buchhandlermesse  geliefert  worden,  und  du  wirst  glanzen."  * 

In  these  quotations  we  note  the  apostrophe,  the  Biblical  allusion, 
the  "  desire  of  the  concrete,'"^  the  curious  reference,  the  rich  figurative 
language,  the  striking  comparison,  the  unexpected  metaphor,  all  of 
which  are  notably  Carlylean. 

These  examples  do  not  necessarily  mean  that  Carlyle  modelled  his 
style  on  Richter,  but  they  surely  show  that  Carlyle  came  under 
Richter's  influence  and  consciously  or  unconsciously  adopted  certain 
of  his  stylistic  peculiarities.  The  fact  that  Carlyle  exhibits  evidences 
of  a  tendency  to  this  style  in  some  of  his  early  writings  increases  the 
likelihood  of  his  falling  under  the  influence  of  this  kindred  spirit.  It 
is  not  a  mere  question  of  imitated  phrases  and  appropriated  thoughts, 
but  it  is  an  influence  all  the  more  subtle  because  it  developed  what 
was  already  in  the  germ. 

Lowell's  statement  that  the  humour  of  Swift,  Sterne,  and  Fielding, 
after  filtering  through  Richter,  reappears  in  Carlyle  with  a  tinge  of 
Germanism  is  met   by    Prof.   MacMechan's   assertion   that    "if    this 


^  Jean  Va.\3X' s  Sammtliche  Werke  ;  Berlin,  1841.     Vol.  xi,  p.  33. 
^  Ibid  p.  31. 
^  Ibid,  p.  60. 
*  Ibid,  p.  123. 
'"  Introd.  p.  Iv. 


James   W.    Tiipper.  93 

means  that  Carlyle  got  his  pecuHar  humor  through  Richter,  Lowell  is 
simply  mistaken."  This  is  undoubtedly  true;  and  though  there  is 
not  much  general  resemblance  between  the  styles  of  Carlyle  and — to 
consider  one  author  only — Sterne,  there  are  passages  in  the  latter 
writer  which  immediately  suggest  the  former.  One  of  the  most  striking 
of  these  is  Sterne's  remark  about  Slawkenbergius's  tale  in  Tristram 
Shandy. 

In  the  Notes  Prof.  MacMechan  has  made  a  contribution  of  lasting 
value  to  the  student  of  Carlyle.  The  successful  tracking  to  its  lair  of 
nearly  every  allusion  conscious  or  unconscious,  is  evidence  of  most 
thorough-going  scholarship.  All  sorts  of  references,  literary,  linguistic, 
biographical,  ethnological,  etc.,  have  been  brought  forth  from  the  darkest 
hiding  places.  At  the  same  time  the  editor  has  not  burdened  the  text 
with  commentary  so  that  it  becomes  a  mere  pack  horse  for  scholarship 
All  the  notes  possess  a  genuine  value  in  the  interpretation  of  the  work. 
The  following  from  Richter' s  Bbimenstucke^  has  not  been  noticed  by 
our  editor: — "Die  guten  Weiber  miissen  immer  die  Himmelleiter  tragen 
und  halten,  auf  der  die  Manner  ins  Himmelblau  und  in  die  Abendrothe 
steigen,"  as  the  basis  of  Carlyle's,  "So  lovely  [all  women],  like 
mysterious  priestesses,  in  whose  hand  was  the  invisible  Jacob's  ladder, 
whereby  man  might  mount  into  very  heaven."  ^ 

The  following  printer's  errors  have  been  noted  :  on  p.  379,  for  151, 
I.  n.  read  156,  i.  n. ;  on  p.  380,  for  223,  13,  n.  read  224,  13,  n. ;  on  p. 
390,  for  219,  I.  n,  read  251,  6.  n. 

This  notice  must  not  close  without  calling  attention  to  the  great 
value  of  the  Index,  Notes  and  Introduction.  It  is  of  the  greatest  assist- 
ance to  the  student,  saving  him,  at  the  expense  of  the  Editor,  a  deal 
of  work.  James  W.  Tupper. 

^  Ibid,  p.  108. 
^  Ibid,  p.  123. 


94 


Reviews. 


Charles  Sealsfield  (Carl  Postl),  der  Dichter  beider  Hemi- 

SPHAEREN.     Sein  Leben  icnd  seine  Werke.    Von  Albert  B.  Faust, 

Ph.  D.,  Associate   Professor   of  German,  Wesleyan   University, 

Middletown,  Conn.   Mit  dem  Bildnis  des  Dichters  und  den  Ansich- 

ten  seines  Geburts-  und  Wohnhauses.     Weimar:  Emil  Felber, 

1897.     Pp.  vi  and  298. 

In   dem  "  Entwurf  eines  Vertrags  "  zwischen  Cotta  und  Sealsfield, 

den  dieser  im  Jahre  1826  mit  der  Absicht  aufsetzte,  in  Philadelphia  eine 

Filiale   der   Cottaschen    Buchhandlung    zu    griinden,    steht   folgende 

Stelle:  "Abhandlungen  iiber  Dichter  ....  finden  keinen  Absatz\" 

Gewiss  hat  sich  Sealsfield,  als  er  dies  schrieb,  nicht  traumen  lassen, 

dass  nach  siebzig  Jahren  seine  eigene  Biographic,  von  einem  jungen 

amerikanischen   Gelehrten  deutscher   Abkunft  verfasst,    in   Amerika 

erscheinen  werde,  um  hier  "Absatz  "  zu  heischen. 

Sollte  es  aber  auch  nur  ein  hiibscher  Zufallsein,  der  Faust  auf  Seals- 
field  fiihrte,  dann  bin  ich  doch  der  Ueberzeugung,  dass  nur  ein  Deutsch- 
Amerikaner.  mit  dem  nothigen  wissenschafdichen  Riistzeug  ausge- 
stattet,  das  Problem  zu  losen  im  Stande  ist,  das  Sealsfield  der  literar- 
historischen  Forschung  aufgibt.  Zwar  an  Versuchen  zur  Losung 
dieses  Problems  hat  es  nicht  gefehlt.  Nachdem  sich  zuerst  Neugier  und 
Klatsch  um  das  Geheimnis  des  "grossen  Unbekannten  "  bemiiht  hat- 
ten,  suchte  ihm,  als  das  Geheimnis  enthiillt  war,  auch  die  Literaturge- 
schichte  gerecht  zu  werden.  Neben  Julian  Schmidts  Besprechung  im 
III.  Bande  seiner  Geschichte  der  deuischeyi  Litteraiur  seit  Lessings 
Tod  ist  hier  besonders  Gottschalls  eingehender  Characteristik  in  den 
Portrats  und  Studien  wie  in  der  Literature eschichte  des  neiinzehnten 


1  Fiir  die  Geschichte  deutschen  Geisteslebens  in  Amerika  ist  es  von  hohem 
Interesse  zu  sehen,  welche  Biicher  Sealsfield,  der  seine  Landsleute  wol  kannte, 
glaubte  absetzen  zu  konnen.  Er  sagt:  "  Diese  Biicher  werden  seyn  geograph- 
ischen,  historischen,  novellistischendichterischen,  theologischen,  medizinischen 
und  gemischten  Inhalts  und  zwar  beilaufig  Goethes  und  Schillers  Werke  in  der 
besten  Auflage,  womoglich  mit  Kupfern,  da  schlechte  Auflagen  mit  schlechtem 
Papier  nie  Absatz  finden.  Eichhorns,  Heerens,  Ludens  und  Herders  Ideen  zur 
Geschichte  der  Menschheit,  Van  der  Velde,  Romane  Hufelands  und  die  besten 
medicinischen  neuen  Werke.  Reinhards  System  der  christlichen  Moral,  Nie- 
mayer's  Characteristik  der  Bibel  und  samnitliche  Werke.  Paulus  Bibelwerke 
und  die  wichtichsten  neuen  theologischen  Werke.  Predigten  wenn  sie  nicht 
ausserst  ausgezeichnet  und  fiir  Amerika  berechnet  sind  finden  keinen  Absatz 

u.  s.  w." 

Ob  wol  ein  deutsch-amerikanischer  Buchhandler  von  heute  sein  Lager  mit 
ahnlich  "  schweren"  Werken  ausstatten  wiirde? 


Jiilms  Goebel.  95 

Jahrhunderts  zu  gedenken.  Mehr  Licht  iiber  Sealsfields  friiheres 
Leben,  besonderes  iiber  seine  Flucht  aus  'dem  Kreuzherrenstift  in 
Prag  und  seinen  ersten  Aufenthalt  in  Amerika,  brachte  die  verdienst- 
volle  kleine  Schrift  von  Victor  Hamburger,  Sealsfield-Postl,  Wien, 
1879,  die,  ausser  einer  feinsinnigen  biographischen  Skizze,  die  bis 
dahin  unveroffentlichen  Briefe  an  Cotta,  Heinrich  Erhard  und  Heinrich 
Brockhaus  enthalt.  Schliesslich  sei  auch  noch  die  hiibsche  biograph- 
ische  Einleitung  erwahnt.  die  F.  M.  Pels  seiner  Ausgabe  des  Kajuten- 
buches  (Leipzig,  Reclam)  vorauschickt  und  die  zuerst  die  Frage  nach 
Sealsfields  dichterischer  Entwickelung  aufwirft.  Alle  die  hier  genann- 
ten  Schriften  hat  Faust  in  seinem  Buche  benutzt  und  ausserdem  das 
biographische  Material  durch  eine  Reihe  von  neuen  werthvoUen  Mit- 
theilungen  vermehrt. 

Hat  er  nun  auch  das  Problem,  das  in  dem  plbtzlichen,  scheinbar 
unvermittelten  Auftreten  und  in  dem  grossen  literarischen  Erfolge  Seals- 
fields  Hegt.  der  Losung  niiher  gefuhrt  ?  Versuchen  wir  zuniichst  das 
Problem  genauer  zu  bestimmen. 

Eine  literarische  Forschung,  die  sich  mit  oder  Parallelenjagerei  im 
Sinne  der  nun  gliicklich  iiberwundenen  Schererschen  Schule  nicht 
begniigt,  kann  sich  auch  damit  nicht  zufrieden  geben,  eine  epoche- 
machende  Erscheinung  wie  die  Sealsfields  aus  iiusseren  Einfliissen 
allein  erkliiren  zu  wollen.  Ihr  kommt  es  vielmehr  darauf  an,  den  stillen 
Werdeprocess  in  der  Seele  des  Dichters  zu  belauschen,  zu  verstehen, 
wie  sich  das  Weltbild,  das  in  seinen  Werken  erscheint,  geformt  hat. 
Gerade  in  Sealsfields  Falle  ist  diese  rein  psychologische  Seite  des 
Problems  um  so  lockender,  je  weniger  Selbstbekenntnisse  wirvondem 
Dichter  haben  und  je  fremdartiger  das  Weltbild  ist,  das  er  vor  sei- 
nen staunenden  Zeitgenossen  entrollt,  Hier  nun  ist  es,  wo  ich  glaube, 
dass  ein  deutsch-amerikanischer  Biograph  Sealsfield  am  besten  gerecht 
werden  kbnne.  Denn  jeder  gebildete  Deutsche,  der  sich  Amerika  zur 
zweiten  Heimat  gewahit  hat.  wird,  bewusst  oder  unbewusst,  dieselben 
Vorgiinge  im  Grunde  seiner  Seele  erfahren  die  Sealsfield  erlebte:  er 
wird  das  neue  Weltbild,  das  auf  ihn  eindringt,  entweder  widerwillig 
und  kritisch  oder  mit  freudiger  Hingebung  in  sich  aufnehmen  und, 
falls  er  dichterische  Begabung  hat,  kiinstlerisch  widerspiegeln.  Kein 
besserer  Beweis  fiir  das  Gesagte  als  ein  Vergleich  zwischen  Lenau 
und  Sealsfield,  zwischen  den  heimwehkranken  amerikanischen  Dicht- 
ungen  des  aristokratischen  Mussiggangers  und  der  thatenfi-ohen,  gewal- 
tigen  Epik  unseres  Novellisten.  Aber  die  Geschichte  der  deutschcn 
Dichtung  in  Amerika  bietet  eine  lange  Reihe  von  Beispielen,  deren 


96  Reviews. 

Studium  zum  tieferen  Verstandnis  Sealsfields  unumganglich  ist.  Und 
es  will  mir  als  ein  grosser  Mangel  an  Fausts  Biographic  erscheinen,  dass 
sie  Sealsfield  einseitig  im  Zusammenhang  mit  der  deutschen  Litera- 
tur,  besonders  dem  deutschen  Romane,  betrachtet  und  fiir  die  That- 
sache  auch  kein  Wort  findet,  dass  ihr  Held  vor  allem  als  deutsch- 
amerikanischer  Schriftsteller  anzusehen  und  darum  im  Zusammenhang 
mit  den  deutschen  literarischen  Bestrebungen  dieses  Landes  zu  behan- 
deln  ist. 

Dass  Sealsfield  seine  Jugend  wie  sein  Lebensende  in  Deutschland 
verbrachte  und  dort  auch  die  meisten  seiner  Schriften  veroffentlichte, 
will  dagegen  nichts  sagen.  Es  ist  vielmehr  von  Bedeutung,  dass  er  sich 
selbst  bis  zum  Ende  seines  Lebens  als  Amerikaner  betrachtete.  Nicht 
nur  um  das  Geheimnis  seiner  Herkunft  und  seines  eigentlichen  Namens 
zu  bewahren.     Beim  Ausbruchdes  Biirgerkriegesschreibt  er:  "  Ufisere 

Zustande  drijben  sind  traurig yJ:/^z«  Land  muss  durch  alle  die 

Krisen  durchgehen,  die  grossen  Republiken  in  ihren  Krankheiten  zur 
Bedingung  gestellt  sind  (18.  Jan.  I861).  "  Ich  fange  an  am  Heile 
meines  geliebten  Amerika  zu  verzweifeln  "  (15  Oct.  1861).  "  Es  ist 
ein  wahres  Blutbad,  in  dem  nnser  Volk  schwimmt,  u?iser  Bhit,  aber  es 
war  nothwendig  zur  Reinigung  zur  Widergeburt"  (8  Mai  1862).  So 
schreibt  kein  Schauspieler,  sondern  ein  Mann,  der  mit  ganzem  Herzen 
an  seinem  Adoptivvaterlande  hangt,  dem  er  sein  Bestes  verdankt. 

Ja,  Amerika  hatte  Sealsfield  nicht  nur  zum  Mann,  sondern  auch  zum 
Dichter  gemacht.  Die  Aufgabe  des  Biographen  aber  ware  es  gewesen, 
zu  zeigen,  wie  aus  dem  scharfen  Beobachter  amerikanischer  Zustande, 
der,  wie  viele  schriftstellerisch  begabte  Einwanderer,  damals  und  spa- 
ter,  als  Schilderer  der  neuen  Eindriicke  in  Reisebeschreibungen 
begann,  nach  und  nach  zum  Dichter  wurde,  den,  wie  Gottschall  mit 
Recht  sagt :  "  der  Kampf  des  Menschen  mit  der  Natur,  der  Sieg  des 
Geistes,  der  Arbeit,  der  Thatkraft  iiber  die  wilden  Improvisationen  der 
Schopfiing,  der  Urwald  und  die  Steppe,  dies  gewaltige  Epos  der  Kul- 
tur,  das  auf  nordamerikanischem  Boden  spielt,  begeistert."  Und  wer 
mit  feinem  Ohr  zu  horen  weiss,  was  zwischen  den  Zeilen  steht,  der 
wird  an  gar  vielen  Stellen  der  Sealsfieldschen  Dichtungen  verschleierte 
Selbstbekenntnisse  belauschen,  die  ihm  den  heimlichen  Werdegang 
des  Dichters  verrathen.  Wie  entschieden  aber  der  Standpunkt  Seals- 
fields  der  des  deutschen  Amerikaners  ist,  das  zeigt  uns  die  Auffassung 
seines  Schriftsteller-  und  Dichterberufes.  Schon  in  der  Yorrede  zu  sei- 
nem Erstlingswerk,  der  wichtigen  Reisebeschreibung,  Die  Vereinigten 
Staateyi  von  Nord  Amerika,  1827,  sagt  er  :  "  Europa  und  seine  Bewoh- 


Julius  Goebel.  57 

ner  (er  meint  natiirlich  Deutschland)  auf  den  gegenwaitigen  Stand- 
punkt  dieses  Staatenvereins  aufmerksam  zu  machen  und  ihnen  eine 
richtige  Ansicht  von  dem  Lande  zu  geben,  das  bereits  viel  auf  diesen 
Welttheil  (Europa)  ztiruckgewirkt  hat  tmd  yiothwendig  nock  mehr  auf 
ihn  zuruckwirken  muss,  ist  die  erste  Absicht  dieser  Blatter."  Als  er 
dann  spater  zur  Dichtung  iibergegangen  ist,  wird  ihm  zum  hochsten 
Zweck  seines  Schaffens  :  selbst  von  sei7iem  neugewonnenen  Standpzinkt 
aus  auf  DeutschJa7id zur'tlckzuwirkeyi.  In  diesem  Sinne  will  er  "dem 
geschichtlichen  Roman  jene  hohere  Bedeutung  geben,  durch  welche 
derselbe  wohlthatiger,  auf  die  Bildung  des  Zeitalters  einwirken 
konne."  Und  in  diesem  Sinne  widmet  er  im  Jahre  1S65  die  Neuauf- 
lage  der  "  Lebensbilder  aus  der  westlichen  Hemisphare"  dem  deut- 
schen  Volke  mit  folgenden  Worten  :  "Der  zum  Bewusstsein  ihrer 
Kraft  und  Wiirde  erwachenden  deutschen  Nation  sind  diese  Bilder 
des  hauslichen  und  offentlichen  Lebens  freier  Burger  eines  stammver- 
wandten,  weltgeschichtlich  gross  werdenden  Staates  als  Spiegel  z^ir 
Selbstbetrachtung  hochachtungsvoll  gewidmet  vom  Verfasser." 

Aus  dem  Vorstehenden  ist  es  wol  klar,  wie  es  Sealsfield  misverste- 
hen,  ja  falsch  beurtheilen  heisst,  will  man  ihn  bios  als  den  Begriinder 
des  exotischen  Romanes  auffassen,  der  seine  amerikanischen  Eindriicke 
etwa  wie  ein  Curiositatensammler  vor  der  gafifenden  Mitwelt  aufstellt 
und  sich  damit  einen  Platz  in  der  deutschen  Literatur  erobert. 

Und  doch  gilt  es,  auch  die  Erscheinung  und  Wirkung  Sealsfields  in 
der  Literatur  Deutschlands  zu  erklaren.  Dies  mochte  ich  die  rein 
literarhistorische  Seite  des  Problems  im  Unterschied  von  der  mehr  psy- 
chologischen  nennen,  die  ich  eben  besprach.  Denn  wenn  es  auch 
ausser  Frage  ist,  dass  Sealsfield  den  eigentlichen  Gehalt  seiner  Werke, 
das  Weltbild,  das  er  entroUt,  Amerika  verdankt,  dann  steht  er  doch, 
wie  jeder  deutsch-amerikanische  Schriftsteller,  der  seine  Bildung  in 
Deutschland  genoss,  in  engem  Zusammenhang  mit  dem  Geistesleben 
des  Vaterlandes.  Die  geheimen  Faden,  die  ihn  mit  diesem  verbin- 
den,  bloszulegen.  den  EinflUssen  nachzugehen,  die  sein  Schaffen  nach 
Form  und  Zweck  bestimmen,  zu  zeigen,  wie  dies  Angeeignete  mit  der 
Welterfahrung  und  dem  inneren  Erlebnis  des  Dichters  sich  im  lebendi- 
gen  Kunstwerk  vermahlt  und  so  des  Dichters  Bild  treu  und  lebenswahr 
vor  uns  erstehen  zu  lassen,  das  ist  die  Aufgabe  des  Biographen. 

Leider  muss  ich  sagen,  dass  Faust  seine  Aufgabe  in  diesem  Sinne 
nicht  gefasst,  geschweige  denn  gelost  hat.  Das  zeigt  sich  schon  im 
einleitenden    Kapitel,^  '  Sealsfields   Stellung   in   der   Literatur,'   dem 

^  Cf.  Americana  Germanica,  I,  i,  wo  dies  Kapitel  in  englischer  Sprache 
gedruckt  ist. 

7 


98  Revieivs. 

schvvachsten  Theile  seines  Buches.  Was  Faust  hier  sprunghaft  iiber 
Sealsfields  Verhaltnis  zum  Jungen  Deutschland,  seine  Abhangigkeit 
vom  englischen  Roman,  seine  Richtung  zum  Realismus  sagt,  ist 
audi  von  Friiheren,  wie  z.  B.  von  Julian  Schmidt  und  Gottschall  schon 
behauptet  vvorden,  Es  gait,  aber  in  historisch  entwickelnder  Darstellung 
die  Sealsfieldsche  Geistesrichtung  auf  dem  Hintergrunde  der  geistigen 
Zustande  and  Richtungen  jener  Zeit  klar  und  iiberzeugend  entstehen 
zu  kissen.  Von  ausserordentlicher  Bedeutung  fur  diesen  Zweck  ist 
das  vom  i.  Jan.  1835  datirte  Vorvvort  zur  i.  Auflage  des  Morton  (Ges. 
Werke  VII,  5  ff. ),  das  nach  Sealsfields  eignen  Worten  'dem  Leser 
den  Standpunkt  bezeichnet,  aus  welchem  er  die  vom  Verfasser,  einge- 
schlagene  Richtung  leicht  iibersehen  kann.'  Wer  dies  literarische 
Selbstbekenntnis  aufmerksam  liest,  vvird  iiber  die  Verwandtschaft 
staunen,  die  zwischen  Sealsfields  asthetischen  Ausichten  und  denen  des 
'Jungen  Deutschland'  besteht.  Freilich  nicht  des  'Jungen  Deutsch- 
land '  wie  es  in  den  meisten  Literaturgeschichten  und  in  der  seichten 
Darstellung  von  Brandes  existirt,  sondern  jener  jungen  literarischen 
Richtung,  die  Ende  der  zvvanziger  Jahre  aufi;aucht  und  das  deutsche 
Geistesleben  umgestaltet.  Denn  es  war  um  jene  Zeit,  dass  die  begab- 
tere  Jugend,  miide  der  verlogenen  romantischen  Scheinwelt  und  abge. 
stossen  von  Goethes  quietistischer  Kunstexistenz,  anfing  sich  nach 
frischer  Wirklichkeit,  nach  wahrem  Leben  zu  sehnen  und  dies  auch 
fur  die  Literatur  zu  fordern.  Ihren  ersten  zusammenfassenden,  pro- 
grammartig  wirkenden  Ausdruck  fand  diejunge,  zum  Realismus  dran- 
gende  Richtung  in  Wolfgang  Menzels  Buch  '  Die  deutsche  Literatur,' 
Stuttgart  1828.  Es  ist  ein  Zeichen  unserer  unwahren,  tendenzios  ge- 
farbten  Literaturgeschichte,  dass  diese  Thatsche  von  Menzels  urspriing- 
licher  FUhrerschaft  noch  nicht  anerkannt  ist/  Wer  aber  daran  noch 
zweifelt,  der  lese  doch  z  B.  Heines  Besprechung  des  Menzelschen 
Buches  und  andere   Kundgebungen  aus  jungdeutschen  Kreisen  vor 


'  Ich  bemerke,  dass  Faust  (S.  142)  ganz  wie  T.  S.  Baker  in  seinem  kritiklosen 
und  vielfacli  confusen  Aufsatz  'America  as  the  political  Utopia  of  Young  Ger- 
many '  (Americana  Germanic  a,  I,  2,  62  £F.),  den  Ausdruck  'Jungdeutschland' 
fiir  die  politische  Bewegung  von  1848  gebraucht.  Man  spricht  wol  heute  von 
'Young-Turkey,'  aber  'Jungdeutschland'  in  dem  gewollten  Sinne  ist  eine  Utopie 
von  '  Young  America. ' 

'  Ich  freue  mich,  dass  auch  Kuno  Francke  in  seinen  Social  Forces  in  German 
Literature  S.  514  fiir  Menzel  eintritt.  Es  ist  hohe  Zeit  der  Luge  vom  '  Dennu- 
cianten'  entgegenzutreten,  die,  von  Heine  in  seiner  gemeinsten  Weise  ersonnen 
und  verbreitet,  seitdem  wie  eine  ewige  Krankheit  sich  forterbt.  Vergl.  auch 
Treitschke,  Deutsche  Gesch.  im  19  Jahrh.  IV,  438  flf. 


Jtdius  Goebel.  99 

1835.  Ja  selbst  noch  in  diesem  Jahre,  wo  sich  Menzel  gegen  die  ihm 
verderblich  scheinenden  sittlich  religiosen  und  politischen  Tendenzen 
der  von  ihm  gerufenen  Geister  wandte,  schreibt  Theodor  Mundt  in 
seiner  Zeitschrift  Literarischer  Zodiakus  S.  8  ff. :  "  Das  Geschlecht  hat 
seine  Goetheschen  Sympathien  alle  verloren,  es  ist  schon  an  andere 
gekettet,  ehe  es  noch  davon  weiss.  Die  Erkenntniss  ist  gewachsen, 
die  Ansichten  haben  sich  vertieft,  der  bios  in  der  Ethik  abgegranzte 
Kreis  der  Goetheschen  Poesie  ist  zu  eng  geworden  und  eine  grbssere 
Weltanschauung  dringt  in  den  deutschen  Geist  hinein,  will  ihn 
bewegen  und  eine  neue  Poesie  daraus  gebaren.  In  der  Emancipation 
der  deutschen  Poesie  von  der  Goetheschen  Gesinnung,  die  sich  schon 
lange  unbewusst  in  den  strebenden  Gemiithern  regte,  noch  ehe  nur  ein 
Wort  davon  unter  uns  laut  wurde,  hat  sich  Wolfgang  Me7izel  ein 
literarhistorisches  Verdienst  erworben,  indent  er  die  Gesinming  einer 

neuen  Zeit  zuerst  am  vtuthigsten  in  sich  durchfuhlte Er  ist  der 

erste  Vorkdmpfer  der  neueren  Bewegung,  die  unternommen  wurde, 
um  an  alten  hergebrachten  Pedanterien  des  deutschen  Wesens  nieder- 
zureissen." 

Und  in  dem  Drange  nach  frischem  Leben,  dem  die  alternde  Kunst 
Goethes  nicht  mehr  geniigte,  in  der  Begeisterung  fiir  die  realistischere 
Poesie  Walter  Scotts  begegnet  sich  Sealsfield  wie  das  erwahnte  Vor- 
wort  zeigt,  voUig  mit  Menzel,  Heine,  Mundt,  Wienbarg  und  den 
ijbrigen  'jungen  Deutschen.'  Und  doch,  welcher  Unterschied  !  Wiih- 
rend  die  Jungdeutschen  vorzUglich  theoretisiren,  mit  Ausnahme  von 
Menzel  sehnsuchtig  nach  Frankreich  als  dem  gelobten  Lande  der 
Rettung  hiniiberschielen  und  ihr  Bischen  Konnen  im  Weltschmerz- 
gewimmer,  in  journalistischen  Anlaufen  oder  in  ungeniessbaren  Ro- 
manen  verpuifen,  weist  Sealsfield  das  deutsche  Volk  auf  Amerika,  das 
Land  des  Realismus  und  der  Thatkraft  und  schafft  aus  iiberlegener 
Welt-und  Selbsterfahrung  den  realistischen  deutschen  Roman,  den 
Menzel  zuerst  gefordert  hatte.  Denn  iiber  den  Einfluss  Menzels  auf 
Sealsfield  kann  gar  kein  Zweifel  sein,  wenn  mir  auch  nicht  bekannt  ist, 
dass  Beide  sich  personlich  nahe  traten/  Faust  hatte  gar  nicht  nothig 
gehabt,  fiir  Sealsfield  die  Prioritiit  der  von  ihm  geschafTenen  Roman- 
gattung  gegen  Gutzkow  zu  vertheidigen,  denn  der  Gedanke  eines 
solchen  Romanes  ist  weder  Sealsfields  noch  Gutskows  Eigenthum, 
sondern  geht  auf  Menzel  zuriick.  In  seinem  Buche  Die  Deutsche 
Literattir  (1828)  2.  Theil  S.  171  fif.  sagt  dieser  iiber  den  Roman  der  Zu- 


^  Es  ware  sehr  interessant  zu  sehen,  ob  Menzel  in  seinem  '  Morgenblatt,'  fiir 
das  Sealsfield  ja  correspondirte,  dessen  Romane  besprochen  hat. 


TOO  Reviews. 

kunft :  "  von  jeher  war  das  Thema  aller  Poesie  der  Mensch  und  auch 
die  neue  Romanpoesie  kann  davon  nicht  abweichen,  sie  fasst  aber  den 
Menschen  mehr  in  der  Gattung  auf,  wahrend  der  friiher  mehr  in  der 
Individualitat  aufgefasst  wurde.  Ihr  Held  ist  also  nicht  mehr  der 
emzelne  Mensch,  sondern  das  Volk.  u,  s.  w."  Fast  wortlich  schreibt 
Sealsfield  in  der  autobiographischen  Skizze  an  Brockhaus  1854 : 
'Statt  dass  wie  friiher  im  familiengeschichtlichen  Schelmen-oder  wie 
er  sonst  heissen  moge — Roman  der  Held  des  Romans  die  Hauptsache 
war,  um  den  sich  die  andern  Personlichkeiten  herumreihten,  ist  hier 
der  Held — wenn  wir  so  sage7i  diirfen — das ganze  Volk.'' 

Wie  ein  directer  Hinweis  auf  Sealsfields  kommende  Romane  klingt- 
aber  folgende  Stelle  bei  Menzel  (a.  a.  O.  180  ff.): 

"  Aus  dem  ganzen  Umkreis  des  Entfernten  und  Vergangenen  wahlt 
nun  der  Dichter  helle  zusammenhangende  Bilder  aus,  und  stellt  sie  uns 
in  einem  gelalligen  Rahmen  vor  die  Augen.  Wir  blicken  in  die  fremde 
Gegenwart  hinein,  in  eine  andre  Welt,  in  der  doch  alles  so  natlirlich 
ist,  als  ob  es  noch  lebte,  und  dies  ist  das  Epos  des  historischen  Romans. 
Endlich  fiihrt  der  Dichter  verschiedene  Nationen  zusammen  und 
wahlt  dazu  Momente  der  Geschichte,  in  welchen  sie  wirklich  in  leb- 
haften  Conflict  gekommen  sind.  Hier  hebt  sich  jede  Eigenthiimlich- 
keit  durch  den  Contrast,  und  die  Reibung  ruft  die  hochste  Thatigkeit 
des  Nationalgeistes  hervor.  In  Kriegen  und  Revolutionen  spielen  und 
gliihen  alle  Farben  durch  einender,  scharft  sich  die  Physiognomic, 
erwachen  die  schlummernden  Krafte  und  offenbaren  in  grossen  Leiden- 
schaften,  was  im  Gemiith  der  Volker  zu  Grunde  liegt  u.  s.  w. " 

Wir  diirfen  nach  dem  Angefiihrten  wol  die  Vermuthung  aussprechen, 
dass  Sealsfield  Menzels  Buch  bald  nach  seinem  Erscheinen,  viel- 
leicht  durch  Cotta,  kennen  lernte  und  daraus  die  Anregung  zu  seiner 
spateren  Auffassung  des  Romanes  schopfte.  Zwar  hatte  Sealsfield, 
wol  durch  Cooper  beeinflusst,  schon  im  Winter  1827-28  einen  Roman 
geschrieben,  aber  eine  genaue  Vergleichung  zwischen  der  urspriing- 
lichen  sentimentalen  Indianergeschichte  in  englischer  Sprache  und 
der  spateren  deutschen  Ausgabe  unter  dem  Titel,  Der  Legitime  und 
der  Republikaner  (1833)  konnte  wol  zeigen,  wie  Sealsfield,  unter 
dem  Einfluss  Menzelscher  Gedanken,  vom  Reisebeschreiber  und  Ver- 
fasser  von  Indianergeschichten  zum  wirklichen  Dichter  herangewach- 
sen  war.  Liegen  uns  fiir  meine  Vermuthung  auch  keine  directen 
Zeugnisse  vor,  so  darf  uns  das  bei  einem  so  systematisch  schweig- 
samen  Manne  nicht  wundern. 

Natiirlich  kann  ich  hier  nur  ganz  im  Allgemeinen  die  Wege  andeu- 


Julius  Gocbel.  loi 

ten,  die  Faust  in  der  Einleitung  seines  Buches  hatte  einschlag-en 
miissen,  um  Sealsfields  Stelluna  in  der  deutschen  Literatur  abschlies- 
send  zu  bestimmen  und  die  Wirkung  zu  erklaren,  die  seine  Romane 
auf  eine  politisch  versumpfte,  iiberall  nach  Freiheit  und  Leben  diir- 
stende  Generation  ausiiben  mussten.  Was  die  iibrigen  Theile  von 
Fausts  Biographie  betrifft,  so  kann  man  ihnen  Fleiss  in  der  Benuizung 
des  schon  Geleisteten  und  ernstes  Streben  nach  Vollstandigkeit  und 
Genauigkeit  nicht  absprechen,  wenn  auch  hier  j^esagt  werden  muss, 
dass  es  der  Verfasser  bei  seiner  mangelhaften  literarhistorischen 
Schulung  trotzdem  zu  einem  abgerundeten  Bilde  nicht  bringt.  So 
wird  der  Leser  fiir  die  ausfuhrliche  Inhaltsansgabe  von  Sealsfields 
Romanen  wol  dankbar  sein,  aber  vergebens  wird  er  sich  nach  einer 
wirklichen  Besprechung  der  Technik  dieser  Romane  umsehen.  Wie 
weit  zeigt  sich  in  dieser  Hinsicht  Sealsfield  von  seinen  englischen  Vor- 
biidern,  von  W.  Scott,  Cooper,  wie  weit  vom  franzbsischen  Roman 
beeinflusst  und  wie  unterscheidet  er  sich  von  Goethe,  iiber  dessen 
W.  Meister  er  sich  wegwerfend  auslasst?  Auch  die  Quellenfi-age  wird 
nicht  beriihrt,  obwohl  es  auf  der  Hand  liegt,  dass  Sealsfield  nicht  Alles 
selbst  erfunden,  sondern  englische  Novellen  benutzt  hat.  So  schickt 
er  mit  einem  undatirten,  wahrscheinlich  aus  dem  Jahre  1828  stammen- 
den  Briefe  aus  Philadelphia  eine  Anzahl  Novellen  an  Gotta  neben- 
beibemerkt  fur  das  von  Menzel  redigirte  Morgenblatt — von  denen  er 
sagt :  "  sie  (die  Novellen)  sind  theils  ganz  von  mir,  theils  in  der  Ueber- 
setzimg  so  verandert,  dass  sie  fuglich  mein  Eigenthum  genannt  werden 
mogen."  Einige  der  Titel  dieser  Novellen  klingen  so  entschieden 
englisch,  dass  sich  Faust  in  der  damaligen  Literatur,  besonders  den 
Unterhaltungsschriften  nach  den  englischen  Vorbildern  hatte  umsehen 
miissen. 

Was  Faust  dagegen  iiber  Sealsfields  Stellung  in  der  Englischen 
Literatur  sagt,  scheint  erschopfend  zu  sein.  Ueber  die  Anregung  zum 
Plagiat  hat  es  Sealsfield,  trotz  seiner  Prahlerei  iiber  die  amerikanische 
Beliebtheit  seiner  Romane,  nicht  hinausgebracht. 

Das  Kapitel  iiber  Sealsfields  Stil  finde  ich  wieder  unfertig  und 
ungeniigend.  Faust  kann  seinen  Lesern  nicht  zumuthen,  dass  sie 
seine  Dissertation  iiber  diesen  Gegenstand  kennen.  Denn  anstatt  die 
Geschmacklosigkeit  zu  begehen,  in  einem  deutschen  Buche  deutschen 
Lesern  die  englische  Inhaltsangabe  seiner  Dissertation  vorzusetzen, 
hatte  er  die  Resultate  der  letzteren  in  den  Text  verarbeiten  und  mit 
guten  Beispielen  illustriren  sollen.  Von  allerhochstem  Interesse  ist 
Sealsfields  bewusstes  Streben,  dem  lateinischen  und  franzosischen  Ein- 


1 02  Reviews, 

fluss  auf  den  deutschen  Stil  durch  die  Nachahmung  englischer  Con- 
structionsweisen  zii  begegnen.  Hier  zeigt  sich,  wie  Sealsfields  Denken 
uber  die  Sprache  von  Herderschen  Ideen  durchtrankt  ist.  die  auch 
sonst  auf  seine  Auschauungen,  besonders  seine  geschichtsphilosophi- 
schen,  stark  eingewirkt  haben,  Ein  geschichtlicher  Ausblick  auf 
ahnliche  Versuche,  die  Sprache  des  Lebens  in  die  Dichtung  einzufiihren 
— z  B.  wahrend  der  Sturm-  und  Drangzeit,  die  auch  sonst  mit  den 
Anfangen  des  jungen  Deutschland  viel  Aehnlichkeit  aufweist — hatte 
dies  Capitel  entschieden  gehoben. 

Mein  schwerstes  Bedenken  gegen  Fausts  Buch  bringe  ich  zuletzt 
vor.  £s  ist  sein  bitterbbses  Deutsch,  Ja,  ich  furchte,  Kritiker  in 
Deutschland  werden  eine  schlechte  Meinung  von  uns  Deutsch-Ameri- 
kanern  bekommen  und  auf  Faust  anwenden,  was  er  selbst  von  Seals- 
field  bemerkt  (S.  134):  '  Sein  Name  wurde  als  der  eines  nachlassigen, 
unordentlichen  Dichters  genannt,  der  seines  langeren  Aufenthaltes  in 
Amerika  oder  seines  Mangels  an  Sprachgefiihl  wegen  nicht  einmal 
tahig  war,  eine  fliessende  deutsche  Prosa  zu  schreiben. '  Aus  der  Menge 
von  Stellen,  die  ich  mir  anmerkte,  will  ich  nur  einzelne  besonders 
reizende  Stil-  und  Sprachbliithen  hier  zusammenbinden: 

"  Das  Thema  des  deutschen  Romans  vom  19.  Jahrhundert  hat  noch 
nicht  Gelehrte  zur  Bearbeitung  in  demselben  Masse  angezogen  wie 
andere  Gebiete  (S.  2)." 

"  Dichter  sind  wohl  nach  Gattungen  unterschieden  worden,  aber 
sie  sind  nicht  geniigend  perspectivisch  betrachtet  (S.  2)." 

' '  Die  Uebersetzungen  der  Werke  des  Dichters  .  .  .  wtirderi  nie 
weit  in  den  Ver.  Staaten  verbreitet  .  .  .  ebenso  werden  Sealsfields 
Characterbilder  immer  als  Meilensteine  in  der  amerikanischen  Cultur- 
geschichte  gelten  (S.  8)." 

Obgleich  seine  Wurzeln  in  demselben  Grunde  mit  dem  'jungen 
Deutschland '  gewachsen  waren,  weigerte  sich  der  exotische  Roman 
(sic!)  Freiheit  als  ZUgellosigkeit  anzusehen  und  kampfte  gegen  die 
verderblichen  Grundsatze  seines  Zeitgenossen  (S.  13.) 

"  Dann  reiste  er  langsam  .  .  .  nach  Havre,  wo  er  s\ch.  fur  (for) 
die  Ver.  Staaten  einschiffte  (S.  46)." 

"Dies  merkwurdige  .  .  .  Werk  (Austria  as  it  is)  ward  in  den 
dreissiger  Jahren  in  alle  europaischen  Sprachen  iibersetzt — in  die 
franzbsische  bet  (by)  Bossange  (S.  60)." 

Doch  genug.  Das  Buch  wirnmelt  formlich  von  offenen  und  versteck- 
ten  Anglicismen  dieser  und  noch  schlimmerer  Art  und  beweist  damit, 
dass  sein  Verfasser  entweder  nie  ordentlich  Deutsch  schreiben  lernte 


Julius  Goebel.  103 

Oder  liiderlich  aus  dem  Englischen  iibersetzte.     Warum  hat  er  nicht 

bei  der  Correktur  die  Hilfe  eines  sprachkundigeren  deutschen  Freundes 

herangezogen  und  damit  den  deutschamerikanischen  Kritiker  der  be- 

schamenden    Pflicht  enthoben,   in    der   sonst   fleissigen    Arbeit  seines 

Landsmannes  garstige  Stil-  und  Sprachschnitzer  zu  vermerken  ? 

Julius  Goebel. 
Stanford  University,  California. 

Zvv'EWLE,  Knowloch  UN  Marau.  Pfalzische  Gedichte  von  Lorenz 
Rohr.  Viimchen.  J.  Schweitzer  i8g6.  X  u.  210  Seiten  (to  be 
had  of  Koelhng  &  Kloppenbach,  Chicago,  Price,  $1.00). 

In  this  httle  volume  of  dialect  poems  the  editor  of  the  Evansville 
Democrat  has  given  us  a  splendid  series  of  companion  pictures  to 
Nadler's  Fr'dhlich  Pfalz  Gott  erhalfs,  though  in  a  different  variety  cf 
the  Palatine  dialect,  with  Alemannic  coloring  as  spoken  in  the  poet's 
native  village,  Venningen.  In  the  author's  own  words  :  "Die  in  diesem 
Buche  erbaltenen  Gedichte  sind  durchweg  in  dem  unverstadtelten 
vorderpfalzischen  Dialekt  geschrieben,  wobei  der  allemannischen 
Schattierung,  wie  man  sie  in  meinem  Heimatsdorf,  in  Venningen, 
findet,  Rechnung  getragen  wurde."  For  those  not  acquainted  with 
the  dialect  a  glossary  is  given  at  the  end  of  the  collection.  A  number 
of  the  poems  have  a  peculiar  interest  for  Americans  as  they  refer  to 
events  in  our  history.  Such  are  Der  Schajinpohl  in  Delaware,  Die 
Grundervon  Germantow7i,  General Herchemer,  der  Held  vo7i  Oriskany 
Huscher-Schulmeeschder  un  Kaiser,  Indianersummer  of  Pennsylvania. 
German  Altweiwerszimmer  Der  Mayer  of  der  Weltniesz  in  Chicago, 
Schterne banner,  Temperenz  in  America,  U?icle  Philip  der  Hoosier- 
Nunichause,   Yankee. 


REPLY. 

Im  Evansville  Democrat  berichtet  ein  Recensent,  dass  der  Unter- 
zeichnete  irrtumlicher  weise  Lenaus  schones  Stimmungsgedicht 
"  Der  Postillion  "  unter  die  in  Amerika  entstandenen  Gedichte  gestellt 
habe.  Lenau  soil  das  Gedicht  im  Gasthof  eines  schwabischen  Land- 
stadtcheus  zu  payier  gebracht  haben,  nachdem  er  grade  eine  niichtliche 
Maifahrt  im  Omnibus  beendet  hatte.  Gegen  die  Behauptung  des 
Recensenten  spricht  Lenaus  eigner  Brief  "aus  Amerika  an  Emilie 
Reinbeck,  der  in  der  kiirzlich  erschienenen  Ausgabe  von  "Lenaus 
Briefen  an  Emilie  von  Reinbeck"  vollstandig  abgedruckt  ist.  Hier 
erwahnt  Lenau  die  im  Amerika  entstandenen  Gedichte,  darunter  auch 
den  "Postillion,"  das  allerdings  hier  "Der  Postknecht "  heisst. 
Schurz,  der  Biograph  und  Schwesterman  Lenaus,  identihciert  unter 
demselben  Brief  Schurz  I,  das  Gedicht  "Der  Postknecht"  mit  dem 
"  Postillion."  "Das  Posthorn,"  ein  aus  ahnlicher  Stimmung  hervor- 
gegangenes  Gedicht,  stammt  jedoch  aus  Wiirtemberg.  Lenau  sandte 
es  dem  Schwager  am  5.  October  1831,  (Schurz  I,' p.  125.)  Dieses 
Gedicht  entstand  wahrend  Lenaus  erstens  Aufenthaltes  im  Wiirtem- 
berg unter  ahnlichen  Umstanden,  wie  sie  der  Recensent  angibt. 


GERMAN   IN  THE   PUBLIC   SCHOOLS. 


It  is  the  Gold  State  again  which  attracts  the  attention  to  the  older 
States  of  the  East  to  an  important  problem  in  American  culture.  Gcr- 
'tnan  hi  the  Public  Schools^  is  the  general  title  of  three  papers  read  at 
the  recent  meeting-  of  the  California  Teachers'  Association,  held  in 
San  Jose,  December  2Sth  to  31st.  The  specific  subjects  of  the  papers 
were  :  The  Educatioyial  Value  of  the  Study  of  German,  by  Julius 
Goebel,  Stanford  University  ;  German  in  Seconda7y  Education,  by 
David  Starr  Jordan,  Stanford  University;  and  Methods  zvith  German, 
by  Albin  Putzker,  University  of  California. 

In  these  three  papers  one  notices  a  marked  contrast  to  the  argu- 
ments which  were  formerly  urged  by  the  Germans  in  America  as  most 
cogent.  One  of  the  older  arguments  was  what  might  be  called  the 
argument  of  speech  representation.  Because  so  and  so  many  thou- 
sand German  families  and  their  children  speak  German,  therefore  the 
American  schools  should  accommodate  themselves  to  these  speech 
conditions.  It  requires  no  great  amount  of  logic  to  set  forth  the 
weakness  of  this  argument.  If  its  cogency  were  recognized  the  public 
schools  in  our  largest  American  cities  would  have  to  provide  instruc- 
tion in  half  a  dozen  foreign  tongues. 

The  one  unanswerable  argument  why  German  should  be  taught  in 
our  American  High  Schools — that  based  upon  the  importance  of 
German  culture — is  fitly  emphasized,  in  the  papers  mentioned  above, 
by  Professor  Goebel  thus  :  "  In  making  thus  the  study  of  German  the 
means  of  a  higher  education,  and  not  merely  a  tool  for  business  and 
professional  purposes,  we  are  only  following  in  the  footsteps  of  the 
leading  minds  of  our  country  ;"  by  President  Jordan  in  these  words 
referring  to  German  as  a  source  of  culture:  "It  stands  at  all  the 
gates  of  culture  and  exacts  its  toll  from  all  who  would  enter,"  and  by 
Professor  Putzker  in  his  assertion:  "  Everbody,  now-a-days,  who 
claims  higher  education,  must  study  German  either  to  becomie 
acquainted  with  the  great  writings  stored  in  that  language,  or  to  study 
its  development." 

The  circular^  shows  that  German  was  taught  in  but  35  of  86  such 
schools,  and  to  only  12  per  cent,  of  the  scholars  in  these  35.  The 
circular  then  reinforces  the  resolution  of  the  California  Teachers' 
Association  "  recommending  that  the  study  of  German  be  placed  on 
an  equal  footing  with  Latin  in  the  High  Schools  of  California." 


'  .San  Jose  :  Jury  &  Clevenger,  1S97. 

-  San  Francisco,  California,  May  10,  1S97.     Issued  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Association  of  Teachers  of  German  in  California. 


THE  JOURNAL  OF  GERMANIC  PHILOLOGY.^ 


The  appearance  early  in  the  current  year  of  two  quarterhes,  both 
devoted  to  Germanic  studies  and  both  pubHshed  and  subsidized  in 
America,  and,  thus  far  at  least,  receiving^  their  contributions  from 
scholars  in  America,  is  a  reasonable  cause  of  surprise  and  at  the  same 
time  an  adequate  reply  to  those  who  have  been  wont  to  complain  that 
the  Germanists  in  America  are  not  keeping  pace  in  productive  activity 
with  their  colleagues  in  the  domains  of  Romanic  and  English  philology. 
The  explanation  of  this  apparently  sudden  manifestation  of  new  life  is 
not  far  to  seek.  For  more  than  a  decade  the  Modern  Language  Notes, 
and  the  Picblications  of  the  Modern  Language  Association  of  America 
have  been  the  main  avenues  of  publication  for  the  three  great  depart- 
ments of  Romanic,  Germanic  and  English  philology  (the  last  having  been 
severed  from  the  Germanic  group,  and  regarded  as  a  separate  depart- 
ment, because  of  its  cultural  importance).  While  these  publications 
together  with  occasional  studies  in  the  A^nerican  four-nal  of  Philology 
and  the  Proceedings  of  the  American  Philological  Association  have 
done  much  to  stimulate  production  in  their  various  fields,  none  of 
them  could,  without  a  serious  break  with  its  traditions,  narrow  down 
its  scope  and  devote  itself  to  any  one  particular  department.  The 
various  university  series  begun  in  recent  years  have  contributed  their 
part  toward  meeting  the  demand  for  special  publishing  facilities,  until 
more  specific  journals  should  arise  to  occupy  the  field.  It  is  an  open 
secret,  that  for  four  or  five  years  as  many  different  Germanists  in 
America  have  conceived  (as  it  seems,  quite  independently,  only  em- 
ulating the  example  of  German  scholars  beyond  the  Atlantic)  the  idea 
of  establishing  some  form  of  journal  for  the  promotion  of  Germanic 
studies  in  this  county. 

Thus  the  two  new  journals^  are  natural  and  timely  evolutions,  having 
in  each  case  a  clearly  defined  point  of  view  and  plan  of  operation,  and 
having  so  constituted  their  editorial  corps  as  to  include  most  of  those 
who  were  themselves  contemplating  similar  enterprises,  thus  securing 
cooperation  and  good  will,  which  must  augur  a  new  and  better  epoch 
in  the  history  of  Germanic  studies  in  America. 


^  Published  by  the  editor,  Bloomington,  Ind.,  U.  S.  A.  Agents:  America, 
Ginn  &  Company,  Boston,  New  York,  Chicago  ;  Europe,  Gustav  Fock,  Leipzig. 

^  Inorderof  first  issue,  Americana  Gcrnianica  (appearing  since  January,  1S97) 
and  MiQ  Journal  of  Germanic  Philology  (appearing  since  April,  1^97). 


io6  Editorial. 

The  Journal  of  Germanic  Philology,  of  which  two  numbers  have 
appeared,  is  edited  and  published  by  Professor  Gustaf  E.  Karsten,  of 
the  University  of  Indiana,  with  the  cooperation  of  Professors  Albert 
S.  Cook,  of  Yale  University,  for  the  Department  of  English;  Horatio 
S.  White,  of  Cornell  University,  for  the  history  of  German  Literature  ; 
George  A.  Hench,  of  the  University  of  Michigan,  for  the  Historical 
Grammar  of  the  Germanic  Dialects;  and  George  Holz,  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Leipzig,  as  European  co-editor. 

In  the  language  of  the  Editors  :  ' '  the  journal  is  devoted  to  Germanic 
Philology  in  the  broader  sense  of  that  term,  including  the  study  of 
Literature  as  well  as  that  of  Language,'^  thus  embracing  English, 
which  occupies  an  important  place  in  the  scope  of  the  journal. 
' '  English  and  German  are  to  receive  especial  attention,  while  the 
other,  Germanistic  branches  and  related  disciplines,  are  considered  as 
much  as  may  be  advisable  from  a  scientific  point  of  view."'  For  the 
first  year  the  journal  promises  to  be  retrospective  in  its  reviews  in 
order  to  present  to  "isolated  students  and  teachers"  otherwise  in- 
accessible material.  The  articles  and  reviews  which  have  thus  far 
appeared  represent  a  variety  of  subjects,  ranging  from  Gothic,  the 
Hildebrandslied,  Walther  von  der  Vogelweide,  Old  English,  Chaucer 
and  Shakespeare,  to  Pope,  Wordsworth  and  the  New  English  Dialect 
Dictionary,  and  give  ample  evidence  that  scientific  method  has  taken 
root  in  American  soil  and  will  grow  as  a  native  plant.  ^ 

While  the  contributions  and  the  editorials  and  press-work  do  credit 
to  American  scholarship  and  book-making,  it  is  not  less  gratifying 
that  the  enterprise  receives  the  financial  support  of  generous  German- 
Americans  of  Indianapolis.  Other  Germans  in  America  may  well 
follow  this  most  worthy  example  of  aiding  in  the  extension  of  German 
studies  in  the  land  of  their  adoption. 

'  From  the  Prospectus  Circular. 

^  Thus  the  Joiirnal  of  Germanic  Philology  and  the  Americana  Gennanica 
enter  the  Germanic  field  from  quite  different  directions,  the  former  taking  Eng- 
lish and  Germafi  in  general  ?iS  the  main  goal,  the  latter  emphasizing  the  literary, 
linguistic  and  other  cultural  relations  of  Germany  and  America  (including  Eng- 
lish only  so  far  as  influencing  or  influenced  by  German,  see  prospectus  oi  Ameri- 
cana Germanica,  Vol.  I,  No.  i),  the  former  soliciting  foreign  contributions  on 
the  general  field  of  Germanics,  the  latter  accepting  American  contributions  on 
the  general  field,  but  soliciting  foreign  articles  on  the  relations  of  Germany  and 
America,  but  in  both  tangtiage  and  literature  and  in  all  the  periods.  Both 
journals  are  academic  in  character  and  aim  at  scientific  treatment  of  the  material 
which  they  publish  ;  both  accept  articles  in  English  or  German  and  have  an 
nternational  circulation. 


Ethnographical  Data. 

Pennsylvania.    No.  I.     Preliminary  Circular. 


(Please  fill  out  and  return  as  soon  as  possible  to  M.  D.  Learned,  University 
of  Pe?msylvania,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Due  acknowledgment  will  be  made  in  print.) 

1.  Give  dates,  location  and  other  facts  relating  to  Dutch,  Swedish,  German, 

French,  English,  Scotch,  Irish,  Welsh  or  other  settlements  in  your  locality 
(mentioning  name  of  locality). 

2.  State  what  part  of  Germany  the  German  inhabitants  regard  as  the  "Old 

Country"  (Vaterland). 

3.  Relate  current  popular  stories  about  early  settlers  or  noted  local  characters. 

4.  Give  local  traditions  or  standing  jokes  or  slurs  about  provincial  nationali- 

ties such  as  Hessians,  Suabians,  etc. 

5.  Mention  any  important  changes  in  the  inhabitants  due  to  the  influence  of 

ethical  elements  arriving  later,  as  in  the  case  of  the  New  Englanders  in 
Northern  and  Central  Pennsylvania,  and  the  Germans  of  1848  and  later. 

6.  What  is  the  attitude  of  the  Pennsylvania  Germans  to  Germans  of  foreign 

birth? 

7.  Give  older  or  obsolete  names  of  places,   and  state  explanation  of  origin 

or  change  of  name. 

8.  Give  names  of  local  historians  or  antiquarians,  any  information  about  old 

books,  papers,  manuscripts,  sketches  in  local  papers,  local  poetry,  etc. 

9.  What  light  do  the  physical  features  of  the  people  shed  upon  their  nationality  ? 

Give  prevailing  types  of  color  of  skin,  hair,  beard,  eyes,  shape  of  face, 
nose,  lips,  ears,  height,  sending  if  possible  a  profile  of  left  side  of  face. 
What  types  are  esteemed  most  highly  ? 

10.  How  have  the  physical  features  of  the  locality  (mountains,  valleys,  streams, 

etc.)  influenced  the  location  of  settlements  of  the  various  nationalities  ? 

11.  Are  any  nationalities  or  families  traditionally  devoted  to  certain  occupations, 

trades  or  professions  ? 

12.  How  have  industrial  and  mining  operations  affected  the  ethnical,  moral  and 

social  character  of  the  people  ? 

13.  Give  any  instances  of  imported  fruits,  plants,  animals,  wares,  etc. 

14.  State  any  particulars  about  dress,  style  of  hair  or  beard  of  the  older  people 

and  state  how  far  they  are  observed  by  the  younger  generation. 

15.  Give  the  popular  tradition  of  the  origin  of  the  prevaihng  mode  of  cooking 

(German,  French,  Dutch,  English  or  Yankee). 

16.  Name  characteristic  dishes  in  vogue,  such  as  schmierkase,  ladwerek  {apple- 

butter),  sauerkraut,  fasnachts,  pawnhaws,  etc. 

17.  State  the  custom  of  locating  house,  barn  and  spring-House,  giving  supersti- 

tions about  building  the  house,  such  as  that  of  the  death  of  the  builder. 


io8  Ethnographical  Data. 

iS.  What  is  the  style  of  barn  (Swiss,  bank-barn,  etc.),  of  house,  whether  frame, 
stone,  brick,  plastered  outside,  with  divided  doors,  chimney  outside  or 
inside,  etc.  Mention  old  buildings  of  interest,  such  as  barns,  houses, 
mills,  etc. 

19.  Give  names  of  feast  days,  religous  or  secular,  and  describe  special  obser- 

vances, ceremony  at  meals,  etc.,  stating  how  they  have  been  influenced 
by  other  customs  in  vogue  among  the  neighbors. 

20.  Give  location  and  history  of  old  forges,  ruins,  factories,  potteries,  mills  (of 

any  kind),  stating  where  specimens  or  collections  of  the  wares  may  be 
seen. 

21.  State  what  languages  (or  dialects)  are  in  use  in  the  locality. 

22.  If  the  Pennsylvania  German  is  employed  state  : 

a.  By  what  classes  of  persons  (farmers,  women  at  home,  children  in  school). 

b.  To  what  extent  the  dialect  is  in  use  (percentage  of  population  speaking  it). 

(i)  m  the  home,  (2)  in  the  field,  (3)  in  the  shop  or  on  the  railroad,  (4)  in 
the  school. 

c.  What  efforts  are  made  to  obliterate  the  dialect — i,  by  the  churches;  2,  by 

the  schools;  3,  by  the  younger  generation. 

d.  Give  instances  of  per^Jons  with  English,  Scotch-Irish,  or  other  un-German 

names  speaking  Pennsylvania-German  as  their  vernacular. 

e.  Give  the  Pennsylvania  German  word  or  words  in  use  for  orchard  (bawm, 

or  bungort?),  X.o  ploiv  (blooga  or  zockera?),  bars  or  drive-way  (fawrt, 
fawt,  or  folter?),  overshoot  of  barn  (boreba  or  forebau?),  (give  any  other 
English  word  in  use  for  it?),  gate  (deercha  or  darcha?),  patJi  (wagelcha 
or  padcha?),  buclcet  {a.vs\&x  or  kivvel?),  ctoudy  day  (treeber  or  wolkicher 
or  dunkler  dawg?),  dip  dawfa  or  dunka?)  lantern  (ladern  or  lootzer), 
sovietivies  (ebmohls  or  olsemohl?),  halter  (holfter  or  kopstell),  is  (is  or 
isch),  or  any  other  such  instances  of  difference  in  vocabulary. 

23.  Mention  any  Dutch,  Swedish  or  Welsh  survivals  in  names,  customs,  tradi- 

tions, speech,  etc.,  in  the  locality. 

24.  Draw  small  map  of  the  locality  or  township  and  indicate  on  it  the  roads, 

position  and  names  of  the  occupant  of  each  house.  A  rough  outline 
copy  could  be  made  from  the  county  map. 

25.  Give  names  and  publications,   local  historical  societies,   collections,  titles 

of  local  histories  and  any  other  relevant  information. 
Locality  referred  to  in  above : 
Name  of  person  giving  answer  : 

Address, 

Date, 


rTZr.. 


lie  ■>,h,kUI,i'^/j/i'lc.-    fU-TAm.f.   Vf... 


:>.' )^.v.' ."^--'^    ■ 


\( 


I 


7-.,,,;,,./,.,     ?v^-.  fM/A«/,,..  ^-- 


'\i-'<  r. 


(I -I:       •■/■ 


'  '■/" 


,7UU, 


r'-;-/:: '''.  (" 


IfcflH 


./.  A 


FAC-SIMILE    OF   TITLE-PAGE   OF    PASTORIUS'    BEE-HIVE   IN   SEVEN    LANGUAGES    (REDUCED    FROM    THE 
ORIGINAL,    WHICH    IS    7  X  12    INCHES*. 


Vol.  I.  1897  No.  4. 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA. 


THE   VERB   IN   THOMAS   MURNER.' 


II. — WEAK    CONJUGATION. 


To  treat  in  full  the  weak  verbs  in  Murner's  writings  would 
go  beyond  the  limits  of  this  article.  I  shall,  therefore,  content 
myself  with  giving  the  salient  characteristics  of  the  conjuga- 
tion and  follow  this  with  peculiarities  occurring  in  the  individ- 
ual verbs.  The  pret.  and  perf.  part,  of  those  verbs  containing 
a  long  vowel  or  a  double  consonant  after  the  vowel  are  charac- 
terized much  more  than  is  the  case  to-day  by  the  presence  of 
unumlauted  forms  by  the  side  of  those  with  umlaut.  In  this 
respect  Murner,  as  we  should  expect,  stands  much  nearer  to  the 
M.  H.  G.,  but  at  the  same  time  differs  considerably  from  it 
by  the  frequency  with  which  he  makes  use  of  the  umlauted 
forms.  Considering  first  the  preterite,  we  find,  in  addition  to 
such  forms  as  sant  from  senden.,  nant  from  nemien^  brant  from 
brennejt^  and  kant  from  kenneji^  which  are  the  usual  ones  to-day, 
many  others,  the  list  of  which  will  be  given  in  full,  although  not 
every  occurrence:  kehren — kort^  L.  V.  229,  with  darkening 
of  the  vowel  for  karte;  similarly  to  leJiren — lort^  G.  2309 ;  stel- 
len — stalt^  S.  Z.  1353  ;  1357  ;  G.  2097  ;  2635  ;  schetiken — 
schankt^O.  1067;  3528;  3529;  schankten^  N.  3901;  schaftite,  N. 
1615  ;  erhankt^  N,  5538;  ertrankt^  N.  5537;  hort^  h.  N.  228; 
horten^l^.  N.  320;  zalt^  G.  1803;  ^(^i^i^  from  setzen^  G.  2911  ; 
schandt  from  schdnden^  G.  5008  ;  dackt  from  decken^  B.  vii,   2  ; 

'  Continued  from  Vol.  I,  No.  3. 


2  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

M.  942;  brani  from  brennen^  N.  2750;  M.  176;  sajidt  from 
senden^  N.  5236 ;  6734 ;  rant  from  rennen^  N.  6662  ;  6695  ;  kant 
from  kcnnen^  N.  1575;  3731;  6836;  ;z^;//  from  nennen^  S.  Z. 
1460;  L.  N.  276;  wa)it  iroxn  wenden^  L.  N.  1669. 

By  the  side  of  these  occur  many  forms  with  umlaut.  Many 
of  these  are  to  be  considered  as  subjunctives,  the  others  are 
mostly  found  in  rhyme  :  deckten  (subj.),  L.  N.  4472  ;  kericn^  N. 
4850;  L.  N.  4472  (subj.);  kert  (:  geho^rt),  G.  412;  nennten 
(:  renten)^  N.  6077  ;  ich  stelli^  G.  2874  (subj.) ;  sy  stelten^  G. 
4341  ;  zelt  (subj.),  G.  3255 ;  h'drte^  B.  xii.  43  ;  ich  setzt,,  B. 
xxxiv,  15. 

The  forms  with  apocope  of  the  final  e  (see  below)  invariably 
exhibit  the  umlaut  :  kerete  for  kerete^  G.  241 1  ;  p.  164,  15  ;  bren- 
net^  G.  1534;  ich  stellet^  G.  3254;  sendet^  B.  iv,  4;  schemet^  B. 
viii,  22. 

Similarly,  in  the  perf.  part.,  by  the  side  of  the  forms  erkanty 
N.  7163  ;  7795  ;  gesant,  S.  Z.  90 ;  517  ;  genatit,  N.  2761  ;  7360  ; 
gerant^  L.  N.  1729;  4558;  vei^brant^  L.  N.  1428;  N.  5316; 
erdacht^  N.  3385  ;  3703,  etc.,  which  are  the  usual  ones  to-day, 
are  found  the  following :  ussgeschankt^  (:  sant),  N.  5556 ;  ge- 
schandt  (:  land),  S.  Z.  423  ;  809 ;  gesatzt  (:  kratzt),  N.  7990 ; 
erlost  (:  trost),  N.  4144;  verstallet  (verstellt),  Gu.  413,  12; 
gestalt^  G.  3148.  But  with  umlaut :  geseiset,  B.  xxix,  51  ;  xxxv, 
14;  entsetst^  L.  N.  2079;  2140;  gerent  G.  899;  genent^  G. 
2617;  erkennet^  N.  2513;  6352;  L.  N.  3420;  G.  2616;  B. 
xxviii,  9 ;  geschenkt^  G.  3146  ;  3739  ;  B.  v,  52  ;  xxi,  65  ;  gesendt^ 
B.  ii,  ^(^\  geschendt,  S.  Z.  593;  826;  N.  4882;  7123;  L.  N. 
2313  ;  erlbszt^  B.  xviii,  52  ;  xxix,  88;  gehenckt^  L.  N.  2562  ;  G. 
3147;  3738;  bedecket^  N.  4150;  B.  viii,  18. 

Nennen  has  quite  a  number  of  forms  with  umlaut  in  the  perf. 
part.  They  fall  into  two  classes — those  showing  the  full  form, 
genennet^  and  those  with  contraction,  genent.  The  former  are 
found  only  within  the  verse,  the  latter,  in  the  poetical  texts,  only 
in  rhyme.  The  occurrences  are  as  follows  :  genent  (:  erkent), 
N.  8388  ;  G.  2617  ;  M.  132  ;  genent^  Gu.  400,  17  ;  415,  24,  25  :  K. 
V.   E.  899,  21 — the  rhyme  in  each  case  being  the  correspond- 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  3 

ing  form  of  kenncn  proves,  of  course,  nothing ;  genennet^  S.  Z, 
1431;  N.  8695;  L.  N.  1872;  Gu.  415,  27;  K.  V.  E.  936,  14; 
943,  24;  954,  12.  To  show  the  proportion  between  umlauted 
and  unumlauted  forms,  it  may  be  of  interest  to  add  that  genant 
occurs  51  times.  The  reverse  is  true  with  reference  to  the  pret. 
Here  we  find,  as  a  rule,  even  in  the  subj.,  the  vowel  «,  e.  g.: 

Wan  ich  sie  each  nant,  ir  wiirden  sie  kennen,  L.  N.  179. 
Wa  wir  sie  nit  .   .   .  nanten,  wiirden  etc.,  Gu.  4C0,  21. 

There  occur,  however,  two  cases  with  e — the  one  in  rhyme, 
the  other  a  subjunctive  :  sie  ncnnten  (:  renten),  N.  6078  ;  als 
wen  ich  sprech  .  .  .   und  ernennet^  K,  v.  E.  914,  22. 

Stellen  exhibits  in  the  perf.  part,  the  reverse  of  the  picture 
presented  by  nejinen.  Here  the  ^-forms  far  outnumber  those 
with  a,  the  proportion  being  19  to  6.  Here,  too,  however,  the 
fuller  form  gestellet  is  found  only  within  the  verse,  gestelt  only 
in  rhyme.     We  have,  for  example  : 

Als  ich  die  anderen  gestellet  hat,  S.  Z.  18. 

So  also  S.  Z.  510;  G.  221 ;  3416;  but 

So  hett  ich  nienians  hie  har  gstelt  (:  welt),  S.  Z.  668. 

So  also  gestelt  {;.  gefelt\  S.  Z.  1491  ;  gestelt  (:  erwelt),  L.  N. 
2837 — 15  in  all,  to  the  4  of  gestellet  given  above. 

The  forms  exhibiting  the  so-called  Ruckumlaitt  are  as  follows  : 
gestalt,  S.  Z.  35  ;  N.  6632  (:  gmalt) ;  L.  N.  108  (:  gewalt ;)  G. 
545  (:  gewalt) ;  G.  2660  (:  gewalt).  A  mixed  form,  verstallet, 
occurs,  Gu.  413,  12. 

In  the  pret.  the  form  with  e  predominates,  e.  g.:  si  stelten,  G. 
4341  ;  er  stellt,  B,  xxvii,  35  ;  subj.  ich  stelt,  G.  2874 ;  ich  stellet, 
G.  3254;  moil  stelt,  G.  2495;  K.  v.  E.  941,  12.  There  occur, 
however,  three  examples  with  a,  one  being  a  subjunctive  :  ich 
stall  (:  gewalt),  S.  Z.  1357  ;  do  stall  man,  G.  2097  ;  sy  stall 
(subj.)  G.  2635. 

Kennen  presents  much  the  same  case  as  nennen.  The  a 
forms  predominate  in  the  proportion  of  58  to  12.  The  ^-forms 
are  partly  contracted,  partly  full  ;  the  former  being  found  only  in 


4  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

rhyme  in  the  metrical  works.  The  occurrences  are  as  follows  : 
erkent  (:  ernent),  G.  2616;  N.  8388;  M.  133;  erkent,  Gu.  415, 
21  ;  zuerkent,  Gu.  441,  ^^  ;  erkenttet,  N.  2513  ;  L.  N.  3420;  B. 
xxviii,  9;  Gu.  416,  31;  417,  24;  433,  24;  bekennet,  K.  v.  E. 
907,  50. 

The  apocope  of  the  final  vowel  of  the  ist  and  2d  pers.  pret. 
sing,  accompanied  by  the  retention  of  the  thematic  vowel,  that 
occurs  even  in  M.  H.  G.  among  Bavarian  and  Alemannic 
writers/  is  found  frequently  in  Murner.  As  the  instances  are 
too  numerous  to  admit  of  being  given  in  full,  a  few  examples 
may  serve  to  illustrate  the  usage : 

Ich  fluchet,  es  verdrosz  niich  libel,  S.  Z.  702. 

Ich  weinet  oft,  N.  4857;  als  fieret  ich,  L.  N.  4755. 

ich  kuwet^  S.  Z.  126;  613;  ich  suochet,  M.  1296;  ich  kochet^ 
Gu.  411,  2>1\  keret,  N.  1144;  4680;  strafet,  N.  4552;  prediget 
:  schediget,  N.  628;  saget,  N.  1513  ;  begej^et,  N.  1555;  richtet, 
N.  1792  ;  belonet^  N.  2030. 

Ich  kam  ein  mal  bis  gen  Paris, 

Do  ich  betracht  ir  beinlin  wisz, 

Bald  keret  ich  mich  wider  um 

Und  fraget,  ob  sie  noch  wer  frum,  N.  4678. 

The  form  betracht  in  the  above  passage  is  a  good  example  of 
syncope  and  apocope  occurring  together,  a  phenomenon  fre- 
quently met  with  in  Murner  and  other  Upper  German  writers. 
Further  examples  are  as  follows:  antwiirt  =  antwjirtete^  S.  Z. 
790 ;  dicht  =  dichtete^  N.  503  ;  fi'icht  =  fiichtete  (feuchtete), 
N.  349;  gelust  ==  gehistete^  N.  366;  L.  N.  4518;  schmidten  = 
schmzdteten,  N.  1737. 

The  contraction  of  the  perf.  part,  of  verbs  whose  stem  ends 
in  a  dental,  and  of  which  modern  German  possesses  a  good 
instance  in  the  participial  adjective  beredt  to  berede7i^  is  em- 
ployed very  frequently  by  Murner,  especially  in  rhyme.  As  the 
occurrences  are  numerous,  a  few  examples  may  suffice  for  all : 


See  Weinhold,  Mhd.  Gram.  I  382  ;  At.  Gram.,  §  359 ;  Bair.  Gram.,  I  313. 


Daniel  B.  Shumivay.  5 

Ach  lieber  pur,  die  grosz  geschicht 

Ist  warlich  iiber  dich  erdicht,  N.  3437;  375i- 

So  wenig  schlechte  grebnis  hat 

Dem  armen  mon  bisz  har  geschadt,  N.  4141;  306. 

Das  du  das  iibel  hast  gestift, 

Die  armen  tochter  so  vergift,  N.  4213. 

So  der  himmel  luter  ist 

Und  der  herr  zu°  lachen  gerist  (geriistet),  N.  5183. 

gcredt  (:  tet),  N.  3738  ;  8440  ;  gesche7idt^  N.  4882  ;  angezindt^ 
(:  findt),  N.  4607  ;  verblendt  (:  erkennt),  N.  4700 ;  geblent  (:  sac- 
rament), L.  N.  2160;  ^'^^^(^^r^// (:  herzenleid),  N.  4829;  erleidt 
(:  geistlichkeit),  N.  7321;  ergrindt  (:  find),  N.  6714;  betracht 
(:  bracht),  N.  5786 ;  gefoi^ckt^  N.  7996 ;  gebicht  (gebeichtet) 
(:  wicht),  N.  8400. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  longer  forms  are  used  whenever  the 
metre  demands  it,  c.  g.\ 

Wiird  er  dann  bedecket  nit,  N.  4150. 

So  sie  die  backen  gstrecket  hant,  N.  8350. 

Ein  deckmantel  in  erdichet  hond,  L.  N.  748;  N.  3459;  8753. 

Gerustet  uff  der  cristenheit,  L.  N.  4350. 

Das  die  babst  geredet  hant,  L.  V.  2045;  2783;  3580. 

geniachet,  N.  TZZZ\  2650;  4385;  L.  N.  237;  gelobet,  S.  Z. 
1453  ;  geachtet,  N.  725  ;  L.  N.  546  ;  gesaget,  N.  3714  ;  verbliiget, 
N.  7012  ;  gzindet^  N.  6147. 

While  the  exigencies  of  rhyme  and  metre  mainly  control  the 
selection  of  the  fnll  or  contracted  form,  there  are  many  verbs 
that  show  a  marked  preference  for  one  or  the  other  of  the  two 
forms.  The  best  instance  of  a  verb  of  this  kind  is  rusten.  Of 
49  occurrences  of  this  verb  in  the  perf,  part.,  but  two  exhibit 
the  full  form,  gerustet :  L.  N.  4350 ;  B.  xxix,  44 ;  all  others 
having  gerist.  Reden  shows  nearly  as  strong  a  percentage  in 
favor  of  the  contracted  form :  geredet  4  times,  all  in  L.  N.,  to  17 
geredt.  Similarly,  geachtet  3,  geacht  10  ;  betrachtet  3,  betracht 
6.  Others,  like  erdichten  and  predigen^  have  about  the  same 
number  of  each  :  erdichtet  7,  erdicht  9 ;  geprediget  6,  gepredigt 


6  The   l^erb  in   Thomas  Afju-ner. 

4.  Others  again,  like  machen^  have  a  large  percentage  in  favor 
of  the  contracted  form  :  gemachct  7  \.o  geinacht  19. 

A  sporadic  instance  of  the  apparent  retention  of  older,  fnller 
vowels  in  final  syllables  is  the  form  verstockat^  B.  iv,  49.  It  is 
probably  a  mere  slip  of  the  printer.  Stirius  gives  it  as  "  zweifel- 
haft."^  In  the  following  instance, ^^^^-^Z^-*?^/  hast,  N.  885,  we  have 
again  a  mere  misprint,  the  ending  of  the  auxiliary  having  influ- 
enced that  of  the  main  verb. 

Passinof  to  the  consideration  of  the  individual  verbs,  we  find 
many  interesting  irregularities  and  survivals.  In  some  cases 
strong  forms  occur  sporadically  in  the  conjugation  of  otherwise 
weak  verbs,  as,  for  example,  a  strong  perf.  part,  to  jag  en  r 

Ir  habt  nit  vil  der  eer  erjagen 
Als  ir  die  sum  habt  dannen  tragen,  L.  N.  349S. 
Handt  in  mit  kuncklen  usz  geschlagen 
Und  fiir  den  suwtrogk  hyngeiagen,  G.  4963. 
veriagen,  werden,  M.  886. 
Likewise  of  trauzven,  M.  H.  G.  drouzven^  "  to  threaten  :" 

Und  wan  sie  dir  nit  kiinnen  stauwen, 
So  haben  sie  dir  vil  me  ^etrauwen,  L.  N.  45c. 
So  Balke  in  his  edition.     Another  and  perhaps  better  inter- 
pretation would  be  to  take  getraiizven  as  a  noim. 

A  strong  perf.  part,  of  erkalten^  "  to  grow  cold,"  occurs  once, 
in  rhyme  : 

Die  jungen  solten  von  den  alten, 
Den  das  blu°t  schon  ist  erkalten, 
Leren,  N.  761 1. 
but  erkaltet,  Gu.  484,  31;  verkalt,  N.  1235. 

Similarly  to  verfassen  : 

So  ist  sy  dort  in  gschrifft  verfassen  (:  unterlassen),  G.  5105. 
A  strong  subj.  pret.  schieden^  to  the  weak  verb  schaden,  also 
occurs  in  one  instance  : 

Das  wir  der  narren  uns  entlieden, 

Uf  das  si  uns  nit  vveiter  schieden,  N.  88. 


'  Die  Sprache  Thomas  Marner's,  ?.  24,  i. 

^  The  only  instance  of  a  preterite  form  is  weak  :  iagten^  M.  902. 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  7 

This,  as    already   mentioned    above,  under  the   sixth  ablaut 
series,  is  due  only  to  the  rhyme. 

In  one  case  badeii  exhibits  a  strong  form  in  the  pres.  sing.,  in 
analogy  to  verbs  like  laden,  of  the  sixth  class : 

Sy  bedt,  sy  wescht,  sy  zwagt  im  dar,  G.  1256. 

Sagcft   and  legen  exhibit  the  well  known  syncope  of  the  g 
with  resulting  contraction  that  occurs  also  with  tragen.     The 
form  is  found  in  all  parts  of  the  verb,  as  the  following  examples 
show  : 
Pres  : 

Wo  blibt  dann  gotts  gerechtigkeit  ? 
Da  von  der  prediger  nit  vil  seit,  N.  4561. 
seit  (:  cristenheit),  L.  N.  2244;  seit,  N.  6167,  etc. 

Pret.  : 
Seit  ich,  N.  5311;  seitstu  N.  6180,  6184;  6441. 
er  seit  (:  weizheit),   S.   Z.   302;  seit,  N.    2937;  abseit,   L.  N. 
1240,  etc. 

Perf.  Part.  : 

Der  in  widerwertigkeit 

Dem  deiiffel  puntnisz  zu°  hat  gseit,  S.  Z.  1353. 
gseit  (:  heimlichkeit),   N.    1702;  zu°geredt  und   zu^geseit,   N. 
2126  etc. 

With  regard  to  the  frequency  of  these  occurrences  to  those  of 
the  fuller  forms,  we  find  in  the  3d  sing.,  pres.  and  pret.  together, 
107  instances  of  sagt  to  74  of  seit.  This  does  not,  however,  give  us 
any  idea  of  the  true  state  of  the  case.  To  get  at  this,  we  must  dis- 
tinguish between  prose  and  poetical  texts.  We  shall  then  find  that 
seit  is  exceedingly  rare  in  prose.  In  the  texts  at  my  disposal  it 
occurs  only  twice,  as  follows  :  K.  v.  E.  910,  i  ;  919,  27.  In  the 
case  of  sagt  the  texts  are  more  evenly  divided ;  of  the  107 
instances,  55,  or  over  half,  occur  in  verse.  In  the  perf.  part., 
the  difference  between  prose  and  verse  is  still  more  marked. 
There  occurs,  all  told,  47  instances  oi  geseit  to  'jt,  oi  gesagt.  Of 
these  73,  however,  but  13  occur  in  verse.  In  S.  Z.  not  a  single 
example  is  found ;  in  N.  and  M.  but  one  each,  both  in  rhyme  : 


8  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Mnrner. 

gesagt  (:  klagt),  N.  668 ;  gesagt  (:  magt),  M,  227.  Of  the  form 
geseit  not  an  instance  occurs  in  prose,  as  far  as  I  know.  In  the 
2d  sing,  pres.,  only  the  form  sagst  occurs,  e.  g.:  S.  Z.  604;  N. 
73i5>  etc. 

The  fuller  form  saget^  of  the  3d  sing,  pres.,  occurs  a  few 
times,  as  follows :  N.  1513  ;  1625;  G.  208;  615. 

With  reference  to  the  retention  of  11  in  the  ist  sing,  pres.,  see 
the  general  remarks  on  conjugation  prefixed  to  the  treatment  of 
the  strong  verbs. 

Similarly  legen  : 

Pres.:  er  leit  (:  bereit),  N,  5007  ;  /<?//,  N.  5653  ;  kit  (:  bereit), 
N.  6002,  etc. 

Pret:  ich  leit^  S.  Z.  1348;  N.  4002;  er  leit^  N.  3280;  8643; 
beleit^  N.  7653. 

E  sie  das  leiten  von  dem  weg,  N.  5929. 

The  proportions  are  as  follows:  3d  sing,  pres.:  leit  17  times, 
legt  12.  Of  the  latter  forms  only  two  instances  are  found  in  S. 
Z.:  190;  847;  three  in  N.:  2700;  3960;  8685;  one  in  L.  N. 
1985  ;  one  in  B.  xxi.  19,  and  none  in  M.  In  the  pret.  3d  sing. 
leit  occurs  7  times,  and  legt  12.  In  addition  there  is  one 
instance  where  the  thematic  vowel  has  been  retained  :  Icget^  B. 
vii.  28.  Similarly,  one  instance  in  the  ist  sing.:  ich  leget^  G. 
2195.  In  contrast  to  the  plur.  leiten  given  above,  we  have  the 
following  forms  of  leg  ten  :  G.  3792  ;  M.  1533  ;  Gu.  408,  34. 

In  the  perf.  part,  the  regular  form  is  geleit^  e.  g.:  geleit  (:  be- 
scheid),  N.  3374;  verleit^  N.  5963;  beleit  (:  kleid),  N.  3813; 
a7igeleit  (:  seit),  L.  N.  3295 ;  angeleite  sachen,  N.  3860,  etc. 
This  is  the  only  form  occurring  in  verse.  In  the  prose  texts 
there  occur  the  following  unsyncopated  forms  :  nidcrgeleget^  Gu. 
412,  30  ;  verlegt,  K.  v.  E;  901,  39  ;  siigelegt,  K.  v.  E.  904,  25  ; 
953,  34;  further,  the  adjective  form  zugelegie^  K.  v.  E.  896,  21  ; 
927,6;  959,  19. 

Diinken  still  retains  the  older  unumlaunted  preterite : 

Thays  ducht  er  wolt  zu  lang  belyben,  G.  1525. 

This  is  quite  general  in  the  sixteenth  century,  both  Luther 
and  Hans  Sachs  using  pret.  dmichtc  and  perf.  part,  gedaiicht. 


Daniel  B.  Shtimway.  Of 

The  verb  hbren  exhibits  in  the  present  stem,  by  the  side  of 
umlauted  forms,  also  some  without  umlaut,  which  belong  by 
right  only  to  the  pret.  and  perf.  part.  These  unumlanted  forms 
are  characteristic  of  the  Midland  German,  which  resisted  at  first  J^ 
the  encroachments  of  the  umlaut  and  are  rather  rare  in  the 
Alemannic  dialect/  As  most  of  the  instances  are  found  in  S. 
Z.,  which  was  printed  at  Frankfurt,  it  is  more  than  likely  that 
they  are  due  to  the  printer.  The  following  instances  occur  in 
the  present  stem  :  ich  hor^  S.  Z.  269  ;  1224;  N.  6037  ;  G.  753  ; 
er  hort^  S.  Z.  432  ;  939  ;  1387  ;  horet^  S.  Z.  567  ;  sie  horent^  S. 
Z.  477;  560;  gehorent^  S.  Z.  1620;  ir  horent^  S.  Z.  820;  inf. 
horen^  S.  Z.  128  ;  L.  N.  2216  ;  imp.  hor^  L.  N.  3598 ;  B.  v,  62  ; 
hort^  L.  N.  3623  ;  horent^  S.  Z.  1349  ;  K.  v.  E,  923,  13. 

The  number  of  these  forms  is  very  small  compared  with  the 
umlaut  forms  found  everywhere  in  great  numbers  except  in  S. 
Z.,  where  only  the  following  are  found,  mostly  in  rhyme :  ich 
her  (:  lere),  S.  Z.  552  ;  es  hert^  S.  Z.  935  ;  1050 ;  inf.  hbren 
(:  leren),  S.  Z.  137  ;  145.  These  umlaut  forms  have  the  fronted 
pronunciation  of  e.  and  are  occasionally  written  accordingly, 
especially  when  in  rhyme  with  this  vowel,  e.  g.;  sie  hert  (:  ge- 
lert),  N.  4798  ;  er  hert  (:  geert)  N.  6807  ;  si  geherendt^  Gu.  436, 
23.  These,  together  with  those  just  mentioned  in  S.  Z.,  are, 
however,  the  only  cases  occurring  with  e.  The  umlaut  is  gen- 
erally expressed  by  0  or  o'. 

In  the  pret.  we  find  mostly  umlauted  forms,  except  in  S.  Z., 
where  the  two  forms  occurring,  although  subjunctives,  are  writ- 
ten without  the  umlaut :  hortest  uf,  du  hettest  fu°g,  S.  Z.  204 ; 
also  du  hortest^  S.  Z.  254.  There  occur,  in  addition,  in  the  other 
texts  the  following  instances,  which,  with  two  exceptions,  are  all 
in  rhyme :  hort  (:  wort),  7659  ;  hort  (:  kort),  L.  N.  228  ;  hort 
(:  mort),  G.  2153  ;  hort  (:  lort),  G.  2308 ;  hort  (:  ort),  B.  xix,  58 ; 
hort^  G.  4033  ;  B.  xviii,  9. 

In  the  perf.  part,  the  picture  presented  is  almost  the  same. 
Umlaut  is  the  rule,  generally  written  as  geJibrt.  In  two  cases 
it  is  written  with  e  :  gehert  (:  gelert),  S.  Z.  77  ]  gehert  (:  lert),  M. 


^  Weinhold,  mhd.  Gr.,  |  383. 


10  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murjier, 

1 191.  The  following  cases  of  unumlauted  forms  occur:  gehort^ 
S.  Z.  1285  ;  gehorf  (:  wort),  N.  6171  ;  ghort  (:  ort),  N,  6312  ; 
gehort^  N.  6592  ;  gchort  (:  iiiort),  L.  N.  258  ;  gchort  (:  ort),  B. 
ii.  60.     The  total  number  of  instances  with  umlaut  is  43. 

Fi'irchten.  The  usual  vowel  of  all  forms  is  o.  A  few  instances 
without  umlaut,  however,  occur ;  so  the  two  instances  found  in 
S.  Z.:  forcht  dir  nit,  S.  Z.  293  ;  forcht  dich,  S.  Z.  295,  in  addi- 
tion, y<7/r//5//<',  M.  989,  2.rA  forchte7t  (inf.  as  noun),  G.  105.  By 
the  side  of  the  numerous  <9-forms  there  appear  the  following 
three  forms  w^ith  71:  ■^x^furchtent^  N.  1666;  1718;  ich.  fui'cht^ 
N.  3707. 

The  verbs  mahen  and  sden  are  found  only  in  the  forms  meien 
and  seien^  the  direct  developments  of  the  M.  H.  G.  incsjen  and 
scBJeji^  with  vocalization  of  the  semi-vowel,  and  which  are  still 
prevalent  in  Upper  German  dialects.  The  following  instances 
may  serve  to  illustrate  the  form  : 

Do  ich  ietzund  narren  seien 
Wil  ich  fiir  ein  dri  tusent  meien,  N.  332. 
Wa  ich  ein  narren  hin  hab  geseit, 
Hab  ich  dri  tusent  dannen  gemeit,  N.  337. 
geseyet,  G.  1028. 

Darin  man  wenig  narren  seit 

Und  vil  narren  wider  meit,  N.  486;  G.  3125. 

The  verby9-^^^«,  a  parallel  form  to  fragen^  occurs  frequently 
in  rhyme,  v^\i\[Q.fragen  is  found  in  other  positions  : 

Wen  ich  den  schelmen  fragen  solt,  S.  Z.  1322. 
Ir  fragent,  wen  gut  beichten  sei,  S.  Z.  1340. 
but: 
Was  ich  nit  kan,  mu°sz  der  Pfaff  fregen  (:  fegen),  S.  Z.  1321. 
Es  darf  nit  fregen, 

Ja,  solt  es  luter  herrgott  regen,  N.  2997. 
Lieber  herr,  ir  solt  mich  fregen 
Und  mir  den  harnasch  redlich  fegen,  N.  8408. 
Durch  den  ir  gont  den  himelsteg 
Darumb  so  acht  das  keiner  freg,  B.  xxiv,  27. 

Further  occurrences  are  as  follows  -.fregen  (:  wegen),  G.  4322  ; 


Daniel  B.  Shiinnvay.  li 

L.  N.  1006  ;  1075  ;  fregen  (:  legen),  G.  530  ;  ^nxx  fregen^  G.  168, 
20 ;  dii  fregst  (:  legst),  G.  4865. 

The  pret.  exhibits  only  the  form  with  a  : 

Den  fragt  ich,  N.  3779  ;  fragte,  B.  xix,  31;  G.  4454. 

A  pret.  subj.,  mechte  to  machcn^  occurs  in  the  following 
instances  : 

Das  du  usz  wisen  narren  mecht, 

Die  selbig  arbeit  wiird  dir  schlecht,  N.  121. 

Damit  sie  dir  ein  andacht  mechten, 

Wa  sie  das  selbig  herfiir  brechten,  L.  N.  645. 

mecht^  N.  151 7  ;  L.  N.  618  ;  ma'cht,  G.  4618  ;  p,  168,  20  ;  L.  N. 
876  ;  wir  mechten^  L.  N.  3689 ;  Gu.  458,  29. 

According  to  Grimm's  dictionary/  this  form  is  met  with  fre- 
quently in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries  and  still 
exists  in  the  dialect  of  Thuringia. 

A  similar  pret.  subj.  to  sleeken  occurs  in  the  following  pass- 
age : 

Und  wer  in  wider  herfiir  brecht, 

Das  er  bei  im  da  unden  stecht,  L.  N.  1131. 

The  rather  rare  verb  jetichen^  "  to  chase,"  related  to  Goth. 
jiukan^  and  found  occasionally  in  Upper  German  monuments, 
occurs  twice  in  Murner,  as  follows : 

Bis  wir  sie  werfent  wider  um 

Und  jeuchent  dich  zu  hieten  drum,  N.  888. 

Solt  man  die  rechten  Tiirken  scheuchen 

So  miest  man  sie  von  erst  verjeuchen,  N.  3265. 

According  to  the  dictionaries  of  Grimm"  and  Schmeller,  this 
verb  exists  still  in  various  forms,  2.s  jauchen^  jdnkcn  d^ViA  jeicken^ 
in  Switzerland,  Bavaria  and  other  parts  of  Upper  Germany. 

The  M.  H.  G.  rcre?i^  that  still  exists  in  various  forms  in  the 
Upper  German  dialects,  as  also  in  Plattdeutsch,  occurs  in  the 
following  passages  in  Murner  : 


*  Vol.  vi,  1363. 

*  Vol.  iv,  2.  2325. 


12  The  Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

Gloub  inir,  das  ich  in  diesen  dingen 
Verreret  hab  manch  suren  schweisz,  N.  9. 
Wenn  ich  drank  und  rert  min  trehen,  N.  765 
Vil  trehen  sie  verreren  Ion,  M.  975. 

The  verbs  IcJiren  and  lernen  are  continually  confused  by 
Murner,  as  is  frequently  the  case  in  this  period.  Lernen  is  used 
frequently  in  the  sense  of  teaching,  lehren  in  the  sense  of  learn- 
ing, e.  g.: 

And  lernen  mich  fil  bieberei,  S.  Z.  760. 

Ich  wolt  niein  evangeUum  leren,  S.  Z.  136. 
Welcher  tiifel,  welcher  gouch 
Hat  uch  gelernet  also  schmieren,  N.  774. 

Die  geistlichkeit  hat  kriegen  glert,  N.  1344. 

Of  30  occurrences  of  leren^  9  are  used  in  the  sense  of  learn- 
ing, and,  of  26  occurrences  of  lernen^  16  have  the  meaning  of 
teaching. 

Leren  occurs  occasionally  with  the  spelling  b^  the  reverse  of 
that  with  horen^  where  the  spelling  e  often  is  found.     The  fol- 
lowing is  a  good  example  : 
«J^  J  Und  ist  dz  die  meinung,  du  l^rest  die  lent  zu  fil  in  den  glauben 

hoffnen,  K.  v.  E.  913,  18. 

Ergetsen^  the  factitive  of  vergessen^  and  meaning,  therefore, 
originally  "  to  make  to  forget,"  retains  in  one  passage  this  older 

meaning : 

Der  arbeit  mu°sz  er  uns  ergetzen, 
So  wir  fahrent  an  zu°  schetzen,  N.  2607. 
Etsen^  the  factitive  to  essen^  occurs  in  the  following  instances  : 

Wer  geuch  spysen  und  etzen  sol,  G.  1315;  1320;  1364. 

Wie  sy  die  geuch  geetzet  handt, 

Eua  die  etzet  iren  man. 

Mit  eynem  apffej  fing  sy  es  an,  G.  1326-8. 
Darumb  liesz  er  sich  etzen  ouch,  G.  1330. 
Die  musz  ich  beizen  und  auch  etzen,  N.  1400. 

Of  reizen^  factitive  to  reissen^  now  obsolete  in  its  original 
meaning,  the  following  instance  is  to  be  found,  in  rhyme  with 
beizen^  factitive  to  beissen  : 


0 


Daniel  B.  SJuiJnivay.  13 

Het  er  mit  geuchin  vor  gebeitzt 
Als  er  mit  hunden  hasen  reitzt 
Er  wer  nit  unser  Cantzler  vvorden,  G.  1615. 

Erstecken^  causative  to  ersticken^  with  corresponding  meaning 
"  ersticken  machen,"  occurs  several  times  : 

Das  ful  fleisch  sie  schier  erstecken  (:  deckeu),  N.  2685, 
Das  wir  uns  selber  nicht  erstecken  (:  decken),  N.  7679. 
erstecken  (:  secken),   N.    1592;   erstecken  (:   entdecken),   N. 
2796. 

Das  mir  das  recht  bei  in  ersteckt,  S.  Z.  649.. 
In  one  case  it  is  used  intransitively  in  the  sense  of  ersiicken  : 

Und  fiirchtent  das  sie  dinn  erstecken  (:  entdecken),  N.  1666. 
It  is    more    than   probable,  not    only  in  this   but  in    other 
instances,  that  the  rhyme  largely  influenced  the  choice  of  the 
form,  as  it  does  not  occur  to  my  knowledge  within  the  verse. 

Blecken^  causative  to  blicken^  occurs  in  the  following  passages  : 
N.  1606;  1609;   1641  ;  L.  N.  3354. 

Flbhen^  causative  \.Ci  fiiehen^  also  occurs  in  two  instances  : 

Darin  hat  geflohet  alles  land,  L.  N.  3246. 
Und  nit  ein  har  geflohet  drein,  L.  N.  3289. 

The  VQ.rhs  freuen^  reuen^  kauen  and  knien  retain  throuo-hout 
the  original  w  of  the  stem  :  die  wiirm  zerkuiven^  G.  1878. 

Der  ander  lugner  kniiwet  wider,  N.  5291. 

Der  liigner  facht  an  niderkniiwen, 
Und  sagt,  es  habe  in  ser  beruwen,  N.  5309. 
wir  knuwen^  B.  xxxv,  28. 
Fretieji  occurs  in  a  variety  of  spellings  : 

Das  sich  der  arm  man  fro^w  darab,  L.  N.  1137. 
Das  sy  des  mocht  erfrowet  werden,  G.  257. 

freuwent,  N.   2904 ; /r<5w«  euch,    L.   N.    1373;  v^\i  fro'wen, 
L.  N.  1518. 

Verbs  with  stems  ending  in  the  liquids  /  and  r,  most  of  which 
belong  to  the  second  weak  conjugation,  for  example,  handeln, 
O.  H.  G.  hantalon^  syncopate,  in   Murner,  the  e  of  the  second 


14  The   Verb  in   Thoinas  Murner. 

syllable,  instead  of  the  c  of  the  endino- — a  method  which  was 
already  employed  in  M,  H.  G.,  and  which  is  the  only  one  in  nse 
to-day.  We  have  thus  in  Murner  such  forms  as  handlet^  N, 
6075;  8103;  L.  N.  2356;  zwiflet,  N.  5419;  O.  p.  44,  19;  ivun- 
drcn,  G.  1540;  1590  ;  hindrct^  G.  4145  ;  bcttlen^  N.  6382  ;  7153  ; 
versiglct^  N.  7841  ;  L.  N.  2922,  etc. 

This  is,  without  doubt,  due  to  the  tenacity  with  which  the 
Alemanic  clings  to  the  fuller  endings,  retaining  them  through- 
out the  entire  M.  H.  G.  period.^  The  instances  are  far  too 
numerous  to  admit  of  being  given  in  full,  but  occur  through- 
out.' In  fact,  many  instances  of  forms  without  any  syncopa- 
tion occur  in  Murner.  As  they  are  not  very  numerous, 
the  list  may  be  given  in  full  :  versigelen^  S.  Z.  382 ;  ver- 
zvandelen^  B.  xiv.  21  ;  versamelen^  Gu.  422,  31  ;  handclen^  Gu. 
490,  27  ;  426,  39  ;  zvackelen^  Gu.  410,  26 ;  iviirtzelen^  Gu.  413, 
16;  442,  ■})Z\  479)  34  5  kutzelet^  K.  v.  E.  910,  11;  zweiffeleu, 
Gu.  419,  39;  439,  35;  445,  24;  482,  29;  485,  24,  26;  erfor- 
derct^  Gu.  455,  30;  niindcrcn^  Gu.  474.  25;  umnderet^  Gu.  401, 
18;  429,  26;  434,  2,3\  K.  V.  E.  903,  15  ;  907,  25;  ergeren,  K. 
V.  E.  899,  28;  neheret^  Gu.  423,  38  ;  enderen^  B.  xviii,  70;  Gu. 
404,  36;  407,  20;  416,  26;  419,  27;  440,  22;  Kal.  213,  16. 

As  is  to  be  expected,  these  fuller  forms  occur,  with  but  very 
few  exceptions,  in  prose  texts.  The  number  of  the  verbs  and 
their  occurrences  is  too  great  to  admit  of  being  given  in  full. 
A  few  representative  verbs  may,  however,  be  cited  to  show  the 
proportion  between  the  various  forms.  We  find  haiidle)i  21 
times,  hatidein  6,  handelen  2  ;  manglen  9  times  mangeln  i  (Gu. 
437,  28);  ivandlen  6  times,  zvandebi  i  (N.  15);  zweifflen  11 
times,  sweiffeln  6,  zweiffelen^  6;  bettlen  12,  and  /ess /en  8  times  ; 
ivundren  11  times,  ivitndern  7,  wnnderen  5;  endren  20  times, 
endern  9,  endercn  7  ;  hiJidren  4  times,  hifidern  5  times. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  the  stems  in  r  shovv-  a  greater  preference 
for  the  second  and  third  forms  as  compared  with  the  /  stems. 

Trisyllabic,  unsyncopated  forms  of  other  verbs  occur  occa- 
sionally as  follows:  dicueten^  Gu.  405,  29;  niischeien^  417,  t^t^-^ 
schetzete^  Gu.  424,  26, 


'  See  Weinhold,  mhd.  Gr.,  'i  381,  and  Paul,  mhd.  Gr.,  ^  116. 


Daniel  B.  Shiimivay,  ic 

In  the  transition  period  from  M.  H.  G.  to  N.  H.  G.,  the  verbs 
regnen  and  segnen  exhibit  a  variety  of  forms,  some  with  the 
introduction  of  an  extra  n  into  the  stem,-  others  again  where  the 
original  nasal  has  been  dropped.     This  latter  is  the  case  with 
Murner,  not  only  in  the  inf.,  but  also  in  other  forms  : 
Regt  er  dann,  so  bitten  wir 
Das  die  siinne  stech  herfiir,  N.  4789. 
Lasz  redlich  bengel  uf  sie  regen,  N.  7194. 
Das  im  die  seif  der  tiifel  gsege,  N.  5321. 
Ich  bin  selber  hie,  do^rfft  euch  nit  segen,  L.  N.  971. 
The  only  exception  found  in  rhyme  is  more  apparent  than 
real,  as  it  rhymes  with  segen  : 

Verflu°cht  alles  was  in  segen, 

Ja,  wo'lten  ir  scheinen  wiird  er  regnen,  L.  N.  1078. 
A  few  other  exceptions  occur,  as  follows  : 
Dz  got  den  Juden  regnet  vor,  G.  1397, 
Wie  man  weihwasser  segnen  soi,  N.  882. 
er  segnete  es,  K.  v.  E.  935,  9. 

The  perf.  part,  is  found  only  with  n  :  gesegnet^  N.  7001  ;  G. 
3404  ;  K.  V.  E.  956,  14  ;  957,  9 ;  957,  12  ;  956,  35. 

The  verb  leugnen  exhibits  a  similar  contraction  and  dropping 
out  of  the  nasal.  In  the  inf.  this  is  not  uncommon  and  is  found 
to-day  in  Upper  German  dialects.^  In  the  other  forms  it  is  very 
rare.  I  have  noted  the  following  in  Murner  :  ich  lenck,  B.  v.  61  ; 
er  leugkt^  G.  141 2. 

The  old  verb  eigen,  "  offenbar  machen,  zeigen,"  of  which 
ereigncn  is  a  disguised  descendant,  occurs  in  the  following  cases  : 

Und  tu°nt  den  nid  oft  schedlich  eigen  (:  zeigen),  N.  658. 
Man  solt  die  geuchery  nit  eygen,  G.  4693. 
Do  fintschafft  sich  noch  friintschafTt  eigt,  G.  1414. 
eigt,  G.  1484  ;  eigten,  G.  4389. 

Schmdhen^  like  the  similarly  sounding  strong  verbs  sehcn  and 
geschehen,  changes  its  h  to  ch  before  /  of  the  3d  pers.  sing,  pres., 
e.  g.: 

Der  schmecht  und  mindret  wiber  lob,  N.  1216, 
'Grimm's  Worterbuch,  vi,  341. 


1 6  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Miirner. 

Instead  of  sdubern  with  b,  Murner  generally  makes  use  of  a 
form  with^  occurring  already  in  M.  H.  G.:  scitffren,  S.  Z.  775  ; 
si'iffrest^  G.  2028. 

A  single  instance  with  b  occurs  as  follows  :  gesilbert^  N.  5358. 

The  adjective  occurs  in  both  forms  :  suffer,  G.  2051  ;  B.  iii,  55  ; 
X,  17,  etc.;  siiber,  N.  5788;  G.  1264;  M.  81  ;  90,  etc. 

Instead  of  7iennen,  there  occurs  once  the  older  form  ncmmeti, 
which  was  especially  characteristic  of  the  Alemanic  : 

Denn  solt  ich  nemmen  yedermann,  G.  609. 
The  verb  hoffcn  is  found  mostly  with  an^analogical  nasal  in 
the  stem,  due  perhaps  to  the  influence  of  the  verbal  noun  hoff- 
nung: 

noch  etwas  hoffnen,  Gu.  485,  25;  473,  27;  K.  v.  E.  913.  19,  22. 
hoffnet,  G.  485;  K.  v.  E.  942,  35,  36  ;  er  erhoffnet,  K.  v.  E, 

942,  35.  3^- 
sie  erhoffnen,  K.  v.  E.  942,  34;  Gu.  473,  27;  erhoffnet  wiirt, 

K.  V.  E.  954,  19. 
wa  sie  nit  erhofTneten,  K.  v.  E.  942,  30 ;  Gu.  471,  28. 

The  following  forms  without  n  occur :  Inf.  hoffcn  (:  geloffen), 
N.  4380;  ^xhofft,  N.  6806;  6808;  L.  N.  2585;  K.  v.  K.  980; 
14;  ich  hoff,  L.  N.  4437;  K.  v.  E.  898,  30;  926,  32  ;  ich  hofft, 
G.  194. 

Entzuckefi  occurs  in  the  older  concrete  sense  belonging  to  it 
as  the  intensive  to  entziehen  : 

Wie  man  dem  krancken  die  speisz  entzucken  soil,  Gu.  451,  26. 
Die  plaffen  geben  uns  nur  ein  gestalt,  und  die  andern  enzucken 
sie  uns,  K.  v.  E.  969,  14. 

Murner  makes  use  still  of  many  M.  H.  G.  verbs  wdiose  forms 
or  original  meanings  have  now  become  obsolete.  In  many  cases, 
when  compounded  with  prepositions,  the  latter  retain  the  fuller 
]\I.  H.  G.  forms ;  in  other  cases  many  compounds  now  out  of 
use  are  used  by  him  continually.  It  will  perhaps  be  of  interest 
to  cite  the  most  important  and  striking  instances.  In  the  first 
place  the  preposition  an  occasionally  retains  in  compounds  the 
fuller  M.  H.  G.  form  ane,  as  follows : 


Daniel  B.  Shinnway.  17 

Wo  ich  mein  find  selbs  anewend,  S.  Z.  229. 

So  bald  ein  wib  in  aneblickt,  N.  992. 

Darzu"  niit  niiwes  anefieng,  N.  1752. 

Bis  umher  kummen  wib  und  man 

Und  im  sin  stoll  all  anekiissen,  N.  3914. 

Den  got  .  .  .  ein  schoner  kleidungane  leyt,  B.  xxiii.  33. 

ane  nam,  B.  i,  77;  x,  67;  xix,  16;  abegang,  B.  vii.  25. 

Do  sie  den  appfel  anesach,  M.  313;  B.  xxii,  24. 

The  verb  angon^  though  not  exhibiting  the  fuller  form  of  the 
prefix,  is  used  still  with  the  meaning  of  the  M.  H.  G.  anegan^ 
"  to  begin  "  : 

Das  wir  mit  in  angont  ein  streit,  S.  Z.  242. 

The  preposition   um  occurs  once   in  the  fuller  form  umnic 
er  unimefing^  B.  xviii,  44. 

In  M.  H.  G.,  by  the  side  of  geiiiiegen  existed  also  other  com- 
pounds such  as  bejiiiegen  and  vernuegen^  now  supplanted  by 
the  first-named.  They  are  still  found  in  Murner  in  the  follow- 
ing passages  : 

Der  priester  laszt  sich  nit  beniegen,  N.  3828. 
Noch  lent  sie  sich  beniegen  nit,  N.  2667;    G,  4457. 
Die  niemans  kan  ietzund  verniegen,  N.  2674. 
So   wir  nit  einer  verniegen  dient,  S.  Z.  851. 

The  compound  beschehcn  for  geschehen^  of  common  occur- 
rence in  M.  H.  G.,  occurs  in  Murner  as  follows  : 

Ich  meint  mein  beschweren  wer  beschehcn,  L.  V.  169. 
also:  L.  N.   431;  804,   1473;  3042;  M.  411;  Kal.   203,  28;  K.  v. 
E.  912,  iS;  977,  12;  962,  17,  35. 

The  verb  alten — O.  H.  G.  alten^  now  almost  supplanted  by 
altern — occurs  as  follows  :  das  er  niimmer  alten  kan,  B.  xxvii,  25. 

M.  H.  G.  beleiden — O.  H.  G.  leidon^  with  the  meaning  "  to 
injure,  offend" — that  has  now  been  supplanted  by  the  longer 
derivative  beleidigen^  occurs  in  the  following  instances  in  Mur- 
ner : 

Wie  man  die  armen  thut  beleiden  (:  baiden),  L.  N.  i486, 
beleiden  (:  scheiden),  B.  xxxv,  89. 


1 8  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Murner. 

The  M.  H.  G.  verb  betagen  occurs  several  times  : 

Alsz  got  sein  giite  wolt  bedagen,  B.  vi,  5. 

Christus  hatts  til  bas  bedagt,  B.  xxv,  37. 

also:  B.  xxiv,  19:  L.  N.  281;  34S5;  3503  ;  35i8;  373i- 

AI.  H.  G.  behoeren^  to-day  obsolete  or  provincial,  occurs  as 
follows  :  behcfren^  L.  N.  4707. 

]\L  H.  G.  besachen^  "  versorgen,"  occurs  in  the  following  pas- 
sages : 

Wer  baden  wel  muosz  sich  besachen  (:  machen),  B.  iv.  i. 
besachen,  N.  6942:  bsachen,  N.  6946. 

The  perf.  part,  of  besitsen  occurs  once,  with  the  meaning  of 
"  obtaining  by  sitting  around,  partaking  of  : 

Noch  ligent  dennncht  wir  nit  nider, 

Bis  wir  das  nachtmal  hont  beseszen,  N.  4744. 

The  M.  H.  G.  verb  diirchahten,  "  to  persecute,"  survives  in 
the  contracted  form  :  dureclit^  S.  Z.  1363. 

The  perfect  part,  of  crkennen^  with  the  meaning  "  bekannt," 
of  frequent  occurrence  in  M.   H.   G.,  is  also  found  in  Murner: 

Die  unsern  vorfaren  unerkant  seint  gewesen,  Gu.  414,  16. 
Dz  in  der  Insein  errzt  nie  sein  erkent  worden,  Gu.  415.  21. 
Doch  hab  ich  etlich  iVumer  ertzt  erkennet,  Gu.  433,  24. 

Ernrni  occurs  with  the  older  meaning  "  to  make  well,"  which 
properly  belongs  to  it  as  the  causative  to  gene  sen  : 

Sie  hettendt  alsz  in  gnot  verzert, 
Bis  sie  der  brunnen  het  ernert,  B.  xxvi.  12. 
Und  kam  die  zung  in  ein  schweche,  die  nit  zu°  erneren  was,  Gu. 
410,  32. 

Aber  fil  basz  bin    ich   genert  worden  von  dem  holtz  guaiacus, 
Gu.  413,  17. 

M.  H.  G.  erlfchen,  "  austrocknen,"  occurs  once: 

Das  es  mir  schier  erlechet  was,  N.  2024. 
M.  H.  G.  {er)gahen^  "  (er)eilen,"  occurs  as  follows  : 

Ich  mu°sz  ein  schalk  subtil  ergahen.  N.  57S8. 

Die  herschaft  nach  regierung  gacht  (:  facht),  1770. 


'I 


Daniel  B.   Shit?mc>ay.  19 

The  familiar  M.  H.  G.  expression  mir  f^cs7vindci  is  found  in 
the  following  passages  : 

Der  unflat  hat  doch  solchen  grindt, 

Wer  das  nur  schinackt,  das  im  geschvvindt,  L.  N.  4302. 

Redt  man  darvon  jn  wurd  geschwinden,  G.  741. 

^  /  E7^n\eten^  "  ergotzen,"  which  appears  in  O.  H.  G.  as  nioton, 
a  denominative  to  7iwt^  and  which  is  still  used  in  some  dialects 
to-day,  occurs  once,  as  follows  : 

Wann  ich  mich  dann  ernietet  hat 

Mit  boser  und  unkiischer  dadt,  G.  4043. 

It  is  exceedingly  rare  in  N.  H.  G.,  Grimm's  dictionary,  vol. 
iii,  923,  citing  but  one  other  instance,  namely,  in  Geiler  von 
Kaisersberg.  A  survival  of  M.  H,  G.  croescn  "  leer  machen," 
occurs  as  follows  : 

Die  pfaffengasz  wo'llen  wir  ero^sen,  L.  N.  2857. 

M.  H.  G.  bricln  occurs  once  as  ertlen^  G.  1791. 

M.  H.  G.  genadcn^  derivative  from  genadc  (Gnade),  occurs  as 
follows  : 

Das  gott,  der  Herr,  hat  gnadet  dich.  N.  6855. 
Sy  iich  genadet,  G.  541 1. 

The  simple  verb  letsen^  which  has  survived  onl}-  in  the  com- 
pound verletscn^  is  found  in  Murner  as  follows  : 

So  het  er  sich  nit  selb  geletzt,  M.  looi. 
Sie  letzen,  Gu.  454,  21. 

Und  zu°mereren  malletzt  disc  kranckheitden  magen,  Gu.  407,  26. 
geletzt,  Gu.  432,  22  ;  geletzet,  Gu.  409,  26;  G.  374;  1940;  5382, 
ich  letzet,  G.  5387;  inf.  letzen,  G.  5395. 

M.  H.  G.  IcJienen^  that  has  been  supplanted  in  the  sense  "  to 
lend  "  by  leihen  except  in  the  dialects  of  Upper  Germanv,  occurs 
in  its  full  .form  in  Murner  : 

Wer  in  geleheneten  kleydren  gadt,  M.  1161. 
M.    H.   G.    sih   lidcn^    with    the    meaning    "sich    in    (jcduld 
schicken,  gedulden,"  occurs  as  follows  : 
Drum  liebs  weckerlin  lide  dich,  N.  3205. 
Darum  lid  dich,  gu°t  weckerlin,  N.  3217:  1yd  dich,  M.  1144. 


20  The   Verb  in   Thomas  Alurncr. 

M.  H.  G.  lupfen^  "  to  lift,  remove,"  occurs  once  : 

Bis  er  vom  amt  gelupfet  ist,  N.  1783. 

Siipfen  intensifies  to  si'ifcii^  of  rare  occurrence  even  in  M.  H. 
G./  is  found  in  the  following  instance  : 

Wasser  gesupfet,  Gu.  452,  21. 

Vermahlen  still  retains  the  full  M,  H.  G.  form  vennehele7t^ 
the  vowel  being  written  mostly,  however,  «,  as  to-day  : 

Der  sin  kind  nit  vermahelen  kan,  N.  3971. 
Vermahelt,  G.  3959;  vermehelt,  G.  3974. 

M.  H.  G.  richen  occurs  in  both  meanings — in  that  of  "  reich 
werden  "  : 

Darum  ir  keiner  richen  mag,  N.  4759. 
and  in  that  of  "  reich  machen  "  : 

Und  inen  selber  zu  reichen,  K.  v.  E.  957,  2. 

The  rare  form  schlcchtcn^  found  occasionally  by  the  side  of 
schlichten^  occurs  once  :  schlechten  (:  flechten),  N.  7135. 

M.  H.  G.  tagedingen^  weakened  later  to  tcgedingen^  tetigen^ 
occurs  in  the  following  instances  in  Murner : 

Die  uf  beiden  seiten  redten, 

Dedigen  find,  kaufschleg  machen,  S.  Z.  682. 

Als  ich  meint  er  dedigt  mir,  S.  Z.  696. 
Er  verdadigt,  K.  v.  E.  920,  20. 

VergleicJien,\VL  the  sense  of  "  gleicli  machen."  occurs  with 
weak  conjugation  as  follows  : 

Und  handt  solches  nach  der  schnier  alias  zu  dem  sacrament  ver- 
gleychet,  K.  v.  E.  940,  18. 

This  occurs    likewise  weak    in  the  older  language,  being  a 
denominative  to  the  adjective  gleich^  M.  H.  G.  gelich? 
M.  H.  G.  verniuten^  "  to  annihilate,"  occurs  once  : 

So  wiird  der  merer  teil  verniit  (:  Hit),  L.  N.  317. 
This  is  quite  in  accordance  with  Murner's  usage,  the   form 


^  See  Lexer,  nihd.  Handwb.,  ii,  1324. 
^  See  Lexer,  i,  814. 


Daiiicl  B.  Slmmzvay.  2i 

nut  being  used  by  him  for  ''  nichts,"  while  nit  is  used  for  the 
mere  negative. 

I'ersere7i^  obsolescent  to-day  except  in  the  participial  form 
unversehrt^  occurs  in  the  following  instance  : 
Od'  der  mund  verseret,  Gu.  412,  40. 
The  verb  wehcn  has  retained  still  in  Murner  the  semi-vowel 
of  the  M.  H.  G.  wcBJen^  wcsgen : 

Der  stot  steiff  wie  der  wint  da  wegt,  L.  N.  196. 
This  is  still  characteristic  of  the  Alsatian  dialect  to-day,  the 
infinitive  form  being  wegen. 

The  M.  H.  G.  verb  gctroesten^  which,  with  the  exception  of 
the  perf,  part,  getrost^  has  entirely  disappeared,  occurs  still  in 
Murner : 

Und  ir  euch  das  getro^sten  diirsten 

Das  got  im  himel  wer  gestorben,  L.  N.  2907. 

M,  H.  G.  gewonen^  used  with  the  auxiliary  haben^  occurs  as 
follows  : 

Es  gilt  mir  gleich  ich  habe  gewont,  S.  Z,  1451. 
Recht  wie  ir,  das  gewonet  hant,  N.  3329. 
Ich  forcht,  sie  gwon  des  falls  zu°  vil,  N.  942. 

IRREGULAR    VERBS. 

I  have  left  to  the  last  the  four  verbs,  haben^  ivollcn^  thun  and 
sein^  as  they  exhibit  the  greatest  confusion,  and  consequently 
the  greatest  variety  of  forms,  and  need,  therefore,  to  be  treated 
in  detail. 

Haben  is  characterized  in  the  Alemanic  dialect  by  umlaut 
forms,  caused  partly  by  an  older  parallel  form  belonging  to  the 
first  class,  occurring  already  in  Notker,  and  partly  by  the  influ- 
ence of  the  verb  heben^  having,  as  it  did,  the  perf.  part,  gehabcn} 
In  accordance  with  this,  Murner  has  forms  rhyming  with  ^, 
although  they  do  not  occur  as  frequently  as  those  with  a  : 

Wir  beide  wollen  gon  zu°  bet, 

Wie  das  die  ee  dan  ufF  ir  het,  L.  N.  4250;  K.  874. 

^  See  Weinhold,  mhd.  Gr.,  I  394,  and  A  I.  Gr.  g  374. 


22  TJw   Verb  in   Thovias  ATurner. 

Was  helfen  mich  die  stein  und  wend, 

Die  sie  dahin  erbuwen  hcnd,  L.  N.  3200; 

Vorab,  das  du  die  sacrament 

Hast  abgethan,  dazu°  geschent, 

Darin  wir  unser  hoffnung  hent,  L.  N.  4419. 

wir  hent  (:  sacrament),  L.  N.  1550;  2797;  4043. 

ir  hent  (:  geschent),  J..  N.  2312. 

Das  euwere  priester  geopffert  hent  (:  ent),  L.  N.  4384. 

sie  hent  (:  wend),  N.  7022. 

This  form  hoit  is  quite  rare,  occurring  only  in  the  passages 
cited,  and,  as  will  be  noticed,  always  in  rhyme.  The  ordinary 
contraction  of  the  plural  is  han{t)^  or,  with  the  darkening 
of  the  vowel,  hon{t).  This  is  the  prevailing  form  in  verse. 
By  its  side,  however,  we  find  numerotis  instances  of  the  fuller 
form  hahcn.  The  occurrences  are  as  follows  :  ist  plur.  wir  haii 
{Jwn)^  32  ;  wir  handt  {Jiont\  57  ;  wir  haboi,  18  times  ;  3d  plur. 
sie  han  6  ;  sie  hon^  43  (all  in  L.  N.) ;  sie  hant  {Jiont\  242  ;  sie 
haben^  iii — of  which  54  are  found  in  the  late  text  L.  N.,  only 
5  in  S.  Z.  and  25  in  N,,  although  dotible  the  length  of  L.  N. 
In  the  prose  texts  the  form  habcn  predominates,  as  follows :  ist 
plur.  wir  habcu,  18;  wir  hand^  5;  2d  plur.  sie  habcn,  98;  sie 
handt  {Jwnt),  40.  One  instance  of  the  apocope  of  the  ending 
due  to  the  enclitic  position  of  the  pronoun  es  occurs  :  wir  habes, 
L.  N.  1266. 

In  the  2d  plur.  the  contracted  forms  prevail.  Owing  to  the 
dropping  of  the  ending,  we  have  quite  a  variety  of  forms  repre- 
sented. The  occurrences  are  as  follows  :  ir  hon  {han),  4  (N. 
679;  L.  N.  3490,  3492,  4155)  ir  hont  {hant),  35;  ir  habt,  31; 
ir  haben,  15  (L.  N.  and  K.  v.  E.  982,  20);  ir  habenf,  2  (N. 
5155,  B.  xxiv,  42) ;  ir  he7tt  (L.  N.  2312). 

In  the  3d  sing.,  as  mentioned  above,  hat  predominates  over 
het.  It  is  often  exceedingly  difficult  to  distinguish  this  latter 
form  from  the  similar  one  of  the  pret.  I  have  counted,  how- 
ever, 92  occurrences  of  het  to  868  of  hat.  One  instance  of 
darkening  to  o  occurs:  hot,  K.  v.  E.  961,  2,2,.  The  2d  sing,  is 
found  only  as  hast  in  the  ind.     The  subj.    form  is  found  as 


Daniel  B.  Shumway.  23 

hab{e)st^  occurring  as  follows  :  S.  Z.  808 ;  N.  2842  ;  G.  p.  42,  32  ; 
823  ;  K.  V.  E.  900,  8 ;  903,  24,  34,  36,  37  ;  904,  9,  34,  39 ;  905, 
12;  970,  4;  971,  11;  981,  12. 

The  usual  form  of  the  ist  sing.  pres.  is  Jiab.  A  few  survivals 
of  the  older  contraction  Jian^  however,  are  found.  With  five 
exceptions,  they  occur  only  in  rhyme  and  are  as  follows  :  han 
(:  kan),  S.  Z.  23  ;  han  (:  stan),  S.  Z,  315  ;  han  (:  man),  N.  4923  ; 
L.  N.  332  ;  han  (:  zan),  N.  7517  ;  han  (:  dran),  S.  Z.  772  ;  N. 
458  ;  G.  1882  ;  B.  v,  55  ;  han  (:  voran),  N.  582  ;  han  (:  an),  N. 
1145;  3162;  L.  N.  3904;  G.  276;  B.  i,  19;  M.  533;  han 
(:  ergan\  B.  xxv,  96  ;  han  (lobesan),  G.  2836  ;  han  (:  gthan),  G. 
32  ;  M.  627  ;  hon  (geton),  N.  9679  ;  hon  (:  von),  B.  iii.  43.  Not 
in  rhyme:  han^  N.  6634;  8753;  hon^  B.  xxv,  117;  xxxiv,  27, 
84.     In  all,  29. 

The  irregular  strong  perf .  part,  gchan^  formed  under  the  influ- 
ence perhaps  oi  gehaben  (from  heben) ;  but,  in  analogy  to  the  con- 
tractions gelan  and  gestan^  predominates  ever  the  weak  form 
gehabt  in  the  metrical  writings.  It  is  found,  however,  only  in 
rhyme.     The  occurrences  are  as  follows  : 

Was  hab  ich  angst  und  sorg  gehan  (:  plan),  N.  7986. 
Was  hat  der  tiifel  flisz  gehan  (:  ban),  N.  7436. 
ghan  (:  Ian),  G.  1595;  gehan  (:  dran),  G,  2100. 
gehan  (:  man),  B.  iii,  6  ;  gehabt,  L.  N.  4618;  G.  3633. 

In  addition,  there  occur  13  instances  of  gehabt  in  prose,  one 
in  G.  3613,  the  others  in  Gu.  and  K.  v.  E. 

One  instance  of  an  unsyncopated  form  occurs : 
Und  sol  grosz  acht  gehaben  werden,  Gu.  483,  33. 

The  regular  form,  but  with  umlaut,  occurs  once,  as  follows  : 
gehebt  hett,  Gu.  483,  33.^ 

In  the  inf.,  the  full  form  haben  and  the  contracted  one  ha)i 
{Jion)  are  found  side  by  side.  In  the  metrical  works  the  form  ha7i 
{hon)  predominates,  the  proportion  being  146  to  44  of  haben. 
Of  these  44,  all  but  13  are  found  in  the  two  texts  L.  N.  and  G., 

'  Lauchert,  Alemannia,  xvi,  154,  mentions  one  other  instance  as  occurring  in 
the  print  Bekennung  der  7  Sacraniente  wider  M.  Liitherum,  to  \N'hich  I  have 
been  unable  to  obtain  access. 


24  The   J  'crb  iu   Thomas  Miirncr. 

9  occurring  in  N.,  3  in  B.  (xxi.  48 ;  xxiii,  28,  42  ;  one  in  S.  Z. 
(1238),  and  none  in  M. 

In  the  prose  texts  the  reverse  is  the  case,  60  instances  of 
haben  occurring  to  10  of  ha7i  {Jion). 

The  pret.  ind.  in  both  sing,  and  phir.  exhibits  umlaut  forms 
by  the  side  of  those  without.  The  latter,  however,  predomi- 
nates. It  is  often  very  difficult  to  decide  whether  a  certain  form 
is  ind.  or  subj.,  and  in  the  3d  sing,  to  distinguish  between  the 
similar  form  of  the  pres.  In  my  judgment  the  occurrences  are 
as  follows:  ist  sing,  ich  hcit^  N.  2008;  2054  (?) ;  3144;  394i  ; 
7695  ;  8248  ;  8250  ;  G.  118  ;  5214  ;  M.  1240  ;  Gu.  411,  2>1  \  424. 
27  ;  426,  38 ;  482,  23  ;  483,  29,  ^2>  (twice),  35  ;  484,  34,  2>1  \  in  all 
20,  to  31  instances  of  ich  halt  {ha/).  In  the  3d  sing,  we  have  69 
examples  of  halt  to  32  of  hett  {Jiet).  Of  the  2d  sing.  I  have 
found  but  two  cases  :  hattcstii.,  K.  v,  E.  910,  4 ;  du  hatest^  K.  v. 
E.  910,  5. 

In  the  plur.  the  vowel  a  predominates.  It  is  the  only  vowel 
occurring  in  the  ist  and  2d  plur.  in  the  few  instances  found  : 
wir  hatteii  (:  advocaten),  S.  Z.  181 ;  hatten  (:  geraten),  N.  354 ; 
hatten  (:  erbaten),  N.  2331  ;  wir  hattent^  N.  2610;  ir  hat/c?i^  N. 
2485  -,8175.  In  the  3d  plur  we  have  17  instances  of  hatten  to 
the  following  9  of  hetten  :  N.  931  ;  7382  ;  7601  ;  L.  N.  763  ;  G. 
2119;  B.  iv,  65;  Gu.  433,  26;  476,  32;  482,  31.  Lauchert 
cites  no  instance  of  a  plural  form  with  e ;  the  above,  however, 
are  all  clearly  examples  of  the  ind.,  and  not  subj. 

A  curious  instance  of  adding  the  plural  n  to  the  sing.,  due  to 
the  rhyme,  is  the  following  : 

Sok  ich  mins  herren  er  nit  retten, 

Was  wer  es,  das  man  hunde  hetten  ?  N.  3155. 

IVollen  occurs  in  two  different  spellings — wbllen  (wo'^llen)  and 
wellen.  This  latter  form  is  frequently  found  in  the  contracted 
form  went^  as  in  the  following  instance  : 

Des  kunigs  went  wir  nit  vergessen,  S.  Z.  1052. 

Die  lobend,  schenden,  wen  sie  "went  (:  geschent),  S.  Z.  592. 

These  three  forms  occur  with  about  equal  frequency,  went 
being  somewhat   in  the  minority.     The  proportion  in  the  ist 


Daniel  B.  Shumzvay.  25 

and  3d  plur.  pres.  is  as  follows :  wellcn{t)  97,  zudllejt  86,  and 
zvent  56  times.'  That  the  difference  in  spelling  did  not  indicate 
difference  in  pronunciation  is  proved  by  numerous  rhymes,  e.g.: 

Da  sie  rieffen  Ion,  wie  sic  woollen, 
Vor  den  selben  tauben  gesellen,  L.  N.  1171. 
vvier  wollen  (:  vellen),  B.  vi.  51;  wonien  (:  gesellen),  L.  N.  733, 
1 170;  1976,  etc. 

In  addition,  there  occur  three  instances  without  umlaut,  or  at 
least  without  its  being  expressed  :  so  wollen  wir,  L.  N.  4175  ;  si 
wollent,  N.  3949;  M.  1267. 

In  the  2d  plur.  the  picture  is  similar.  The  forms,  however, 
are  more  varied,  owing  to  the  frequent  introduction  of  analogi- 
cal //.  The  occurrences  are  as  follows  :  ir  wellen{t\  10  ;  ir  wcfl- 
len,  4 ;  ir  welt,  9 ;  ir  wd'lt,  10  ;  ir  went,  4 ;  and,  finally,  3  with- 
out umlaut  :  ir  zvolt  (:  sold),  N.  5201  ;  7560 ;  8062. 

The  pres.  subj.  exhibits  the  same  variety  of  forms :  ich  wel, 
G.  3442  ;  ich  zvell  (:  hell),  G.  5209  ;  er  wbl  17,  er  wel,  42  times. 
Also  two  without  umlaut  expressed  :  woll,  N.  2745  ;  6870. 

As  already  mentioned,  the  2d  sing.  ind.  shows  no  traces  of  the 
analogical  s,  e.  g.  : 

Wen  du  das  nit  vergelten  wilt  (:  gefilt),  S.  Z.  730. 
The  pret.  subj.  exhibits,  as  a  rule,  no  umlaut.     There  occur, 
however,  occasionally  forms  with   the  umlaut  expressed:    ich 
icont,  L.  N.  3576. 

Wa  er  es  recht  wo^lt  ergriinden,  L.  N.  3367. 

Als  wo«lt  man,  G.  113;  148;  sie  wonteu,  L.  N.  513.' 

It  will  be  noticed  that  these  forms  occur  only  in  the  late  work, 
L.  N.,  and  in  G.,  printed  in  Basel.  Of  the  2d  sing.,  to  my 
knowledg-e,  no  umlaut  form  occurs.  I  have  noted  the  two  fol- 
lowing:  du  woltst,  L.  N.  4410;  4412. 

Thiin.  The  ist  sing.  pres.  ind.  of  this  verb  exhibits  occa- 
sionally the  retention  of  the  older  nasal  of  the  ending.     As  the 

1  This  disproves  Lauchert's  statement  that  zuendt  [ztrnd)  is  the  most  frequent 
form. 

'■'  Lauchert  cites  no  instance  of  an  umlaut  form  in  the  singular. 


26  TJie   I  er/?  in    Thovias  Miirner. 

occurrences  are  not  man}',  they  may  be  given  in  full  :  ich  thu')i^ 
S.  Z.  153  ;  thii''}i  iclis,  S.  Z,  224  ;  icli  tien^  N.  2155  ;  5389  ;  8517  ; 
ich  thuo7i^  G.  p.  43,  29  ;  ich  ihuon^  B.  xxxiv,  117.  The  nasal  has, 
however,  in  the  majority  of  cases  been  dropped.  The  form  appears 
with  a  variety  of  spellings,  as :  tJn{\  S.  Z.  433  ;  ///",  N.  195  ;  tir^e 
ich,  N.  8142  ;  ich  tlm%  G.  3862  ;  tiio,  B.  i,  87  ;  tliuo^  B.  xix,  61. 
In  all,  32  occurrences. 

The  pres.  subj.  is  interesting,  as  it  goes  directly  back  to  the 
M.  H.  G.  tiicjen^  which,  as  is  well  known,  resulted  from  the 
attempt  to  conform  the  verb  to  the  paradigm  Q>i  the  ordinary 
conjugation,  a  tendency  which  makes  itself  felt  even  in  the  O. 
H.  G.  period.  Murner  spells  it  usually  with  />,  and  it  rhymes 
in  all  cases  with  this  diphthong.  The  semi-vowel  is  expressed 
by  the  symbol  g.  That  this,  however,  is  to  be  pronounced  as  a 
semi-vowel  is  proved  by  its  frequent  omission.^  The  following 
instances  may  serve  to  illustrate  the  forms  : 

Er  dieg  doch  iibele  oder  recht,  N.  1275;  5814. 
Und  fragen  von  Venedigen  krieg, 
Was  der  kiinig  zu°  Meiland  dieg,  N.  1291. 

Du  diegest  dann  ein  widerker,  N.  6036, 

Dan  woellen  wir  raten,  wie  wir  thiien, 

Einander  mit  dem  kolben  schliegen,  L.  N.  563. 

Wir  nement  oft  fier  hundert  pfriend, 

So  wir  nit  einer  verniegen  dient,  S.  Z.  851;  N.  3601. 

das  ir  thiien^  L.  N.  248  ;  ich  dieg^  N.  5748  ;  das  d'ugcstn^  K.  v. 
E.  904,  15. 

The  pret.  ind.  exhibits  in  the  sing,  two  forms,  dat  (variously 
spelled)  and  det  {Jet^  etc.)  side  by  side.  The  older  c-forni  is  by 
far  the  more  frequent,  and  is  found  in  all  positions  in  the  verse. 
The  younger  analogical  a-iox\\\  is  found  only  in  rhyme  aside 
from  the  following  two  exceptions  : 

Tat  er  als  sin  vater  tat,  N.  41 14. 

Wo  einer  thadt  ein  bu°ben  stUck,  G.  5204. 


'  See  also  Kriiiiter,  Alematmia,  v,  198,  who  gives  the  pronunciation  of ,;'  in 
modern  Alsatian,  after  palatal  vowels,  as  being  that  of  the  semi-vowel  j. 


Daniel  B.  SJiumivay.  27 

In  all,  99  occurrences  of  del  {let)  are  found,  to  35  of  dat. 

According  to  Lauchert,  the  only  forms  of  the  pret.  plur.  ind. 
are  those  with  the  vowel  a.  This  is  indeed  the  usual  form. 
There  occurs,  however,  the  following-  forms  with  the  vowel  <?, 
which  are  clearly  indicative  and  not  subjunctive  :  thettcn^  G. 
2118;  5148;  thcttcnd,  G.  2134;  detent,  B.  iv,  10;  deten,  G.  80; 
B.  xxiv,  18  ;  Gu.  408,  23  ;  K.  v.  E.  962,  5  ;  964,  11. 

Sein.    For  the  manifold  forms  of  this  verb  see  Lauchert,  who 
has  collected  them  very  carefully.     I  wish  simply  to  call  atten- 
tion to  one  or  two  unusual  forms  not  given  by  him.     The  3d 
sing.  pres.  occurs  once  without  the  ending  /  .• 
Christliche  freiheit  isz  das  Ian,  L.  N.  2202. 

An  irregular  pret.  ind.  form  with  e  in  rhyme  occurs  as  follows  : 

Derselb  auch  nit  bo'^sz  her  wesz  (=  war  kein  boser  Herr) 
Doch  ist  der  dapffer  man  kein  kesz,  L.  N.  1594. 

This  is  due,  of  course,  to  the  rhyme,  or  better  to  the  printer, 
as  Murner  probably  wrote  the  rhyme  wasz  :  kasz,  or  zi^as  :  kas. 

In  the  perf.  part,  the  two  forms  cr^-^///  [o-esein)  and  gezcesen 
are  found  side  by  side.  This  latter  form  predominates  decidedly, 
especially  in  the  prose  writings,  where,  in  the  texts  at  my  dis- 
posal, 60  instances  of  geivesen  occur  to  5  of  gesin  (geseiu).  In 
verse  the  proportion  is  not  so  large,  as  gesin  was  very  con\-eni- 
ent  for  purposes  of  rhyme.  In  id^oX^gesiii  is  met  with  but  once 
outside  of  rhyme  :  N.  2646. 

In  the  case  of  gewesen  the  occurrences  are  equally  di\'ided. 
In  all,  there  are  found  in  the  metrical  texts  57  instances  of 
gewesen  to  34  of  gesi)i  {gesein).  A  few  examples  of  each  form 
may  not  be  out  of  place. 

Es  sind  wol  etlich  pfarrer  gwesen, 
Die  kunten  weder  singen  noch  lesen,  N.  5061. 
gewesen,  N.  4277,  4936;  5721;  6384;  6725;  7132,  etc. 
Klagstu  es  ietz,  so  spott  man  din 
Verraten  dich,  so  triivv  bist  gsin,  N.  3215. 
So  ists  ein  frumme  dirn  gesin  (:  drin),  N.  6966. 
gesin  (:  hin),  L.  N.  2889;  gesin  (:  schin),  G.  296. 
gesyn  (:  dyn),  G.  1419;  gesyn  (:  fyn),  G,  1428,  etc. 


28  The   Verb  in    Thomas  Miirncr. 

Was  vor  zelten  krieg  sein  gesein 

Hon  sie  geschworen,  dinget  ein.lL.  N.  2841. 

gesein  (:  fein),  L.  N.  3652;  gsein  (:  bgein),  L.  N.  4616. 

gesein  (:  wein),  L.  N.  4631;  gesein  (:  fein),  M.  152. 

In  no  case  does  gesein  rhyme  with  M.  H.  G.  ei. 
The   weak   form  geivest^  which   is   found  in  Upper  German 
since  the  fourteenth  century,  occurs  but  once  in  Murner : 

Die  jungen  atzeln  in  dem  nest 

Die  gestern  erst  sind  eier  gwest,  N.  4993. 

In  the  foregoing  I  have  attempted  to  give  a  detailed  presenta- 
tion not  only  of  Murner's  use  of  the  verb,  but  also  of  the  Strass- 
burg  norms,  as  far  as  it  is  represented  by  the  prints  of  his  works. 
For  this  purpose,  as  will  have  been  noticed,  I  have  not  confined 
m\self  to  forms  in  rhyme,  or  to  those  which,  for  other  reasons, 
indubitably  come  from  his  pen  ;  but  have  considered  all  those 
occurring,  even  when  they  were  in  all  probability  due  to  the 
printer.  We  have  presented  to  us  in  the  texts  a  gradual  nor- 
malization of  the  literary  form.  Dialectical  peculiarities  are 
little  by  little  abandoned,  and  the  words  made  to  conform  more 
and  more  to  the  norm  of  the  Saxon  chancellery.  This  is  espe- 
cially true  of  the  endings  of  the  plural.  As  mentioned  above, 
the  older  writings  of  Murner,  those  published  in  15 12,  exhibit 
complete  confusion  of  the  endings,  with  still  a  marked  prefer- 
ence for  the  dialectical  -t.  In  the  decade  that  intervened  before 
the  appearance  of  L.  N.,  the  normalization  made  such  rapid 
progress  that  the  endings  in  this  work  are  essentially  the  same 
as  those  of  to-day. 

This  is  equally  true  of  the  diphthongization  of  the  IM.  H.  G. 
long  vowels.  Murner,  in  accordance  with  his  dialect,  made 
almost  exclusive  use  of  the  older  vowels.  This  is  clearly 
reflected  in  the  earlier  prints,  where  only  a  few  sporadic 
instances  of  ei  are  found.  In  L.  N.,  however,  the  case  is  just 
reversed.  For  the  details,  see  the  introductory  remarks  to  the 
verbs  of  the  first  ablaut  class. 

As  to  the  characteristics  of  Murner's  usage,  thej-  are  too  numer- 


Daniel  B.  Shumzvay.  20 

ous  to  admit  of  being  repeated  at  length.  In  this  reszime  I  can 
touch  upon  only  a  few  of  the  most  striking.  In  the  ist  sing.  pres. 
of  the  weak  verbs  we  have  a  few  interesting  survivals  of  the  end- 
ing -en  (see  No.  3,  p.  23).  The  2d  sing.  pret.  ind.  no  longer  exhib- 
its the  M.  H.  G.  form  with  the  vowel  of  the  subjunctive,  but 
the  newer  analogical  form  (see  p.  28).  The  pret.  sing,  of  the 
strong  verbs  shows  but  few  instances  of  the  form  ending  in  e  in 
analogy  to  the  weak  conjugation.  Murner  differs  in  this  point 
radically  from  many  of  his  contemporaries  (see  p.  29).  In  the 
first  ablaut  series  of  strong  verbs  the  older  pret.  sing,  with  ci 
predominates  over  the  newer  with  ie  (?").  In  this  respect  Murner 
is  much  more  conservative,  for  example,  than  Hans  Sachs,  in 
whose  writings  the  new  form  had  already  won  the  supremacy 
(p.  38.)  In  the  second,  third,  fourth  and  fifth  classes,  the  ist 
sing,  has  retained  the  vowel  of  the  2d  and  3d  persons  (pp.  42, 
47)  5O)  55)-  I"  the  preterite  of  the  second  class  two  survivals 
of  the  M.  H.  G.  diphthong  07t  are  found  (p.  43).  The  so-called 
"grammatical  change"  has  practically  been  done  away  with 
(pp.  44,  62,  65).  The  vowel  ?/  before  a  double  nasal  has  been 
retained  with  but  a  few  exceptions  (pp.  48,  52).  Geben  of 
the  fifth  class,  exhibits  not  only  the  M.  H.  G.  contraction  of  the 
sing.  pres.  to  git,  but  likewise  a  contraction  of  the  dissyllabic 
forms  to^^;^  ^nd  gent,  still  found  in  Alemannic  (p.  56).  In  the 
sixth  class  the  preterite  still  retains  the  diphthong  uo  in  accord- 
ance with  the  dialect  (p.  60).  Weschen  exhibits  without  excep- 
tion the  ^-umlaut  characteristic  of  the  Alsatian  dialect  (p.  64). 
Other  verbs  of  this  class  and  the  reduplicating  verbs  are  marked 
by  the  absence  of  umlaut  still  general  in  Upper  German.  Fallot 
however,  forms  an  exception  to  this  (p.  66).  Rnfcn  occurs  only 
as  a  weak  verb  (p.  69).  Wissen  shows  a  large  number  of  forms 
of  the  3d  sing,  with  irregular  -t  (p.  71).  Gojinen  exhibits,  by 
the  side  of  the  newer,  the  older  form,  ga7i  (p.  72).  M.  H.  G.  tflr- 
rcn  is  of  frequent  occurrence  (p.  74).  In  the  weak  verbs  many 
examples  of  the  so-called  "riickumlaut"  are  found  (p.  66). 
Verbs  with  stems  ending  in  a  liquid  generally  syncopate  the  e 
before  the  consonant,  the  reverse  of  the  rule  in  modern  German 


30 


The   I  'erh  in    Thomas  Mnrner 


(e.  ix-  hcDidleii^  p.  13).  Verbs  compounded  with  prepositions 
exhibit  in  many  cases  the  fuller  M,  H.  G.  forms  of  the  latter 
(p.  16).  Many  survivals  of  now  obsolete  compounds  and  other 
M.  H,  G.  verbs  are  found  (pp.  17-21). 

Haben  exhibits  many  instances  of  umlaut  in  the  indicative 
(pp.  21-24);  similarly  of  the  form  han  in  the  ist  sing.  pres. 
(p.  23).  The  verb  thnn  also  has  a  few  forms  of  the  same  person 
with  -//  (p.  26).  The  perf.  part,  of  seiii  is  characterized  by 
numerous  examples  of  the  f orni  ^^<^^/;z  (p.  27). 

Daniel  B.  Shumway. 

Univkrsity  of  Pennsylvania, 

PhIIvADEI^PHIA. 


FURTHER    DOCUMENTS    CONCERNING    COTTON 
MATHER  AND  AUGUST  HERMANN  FRANCKE. 


Ill  Vol.  V  of  the  Hari'ard  Studies  and  Notcs^  p.  57,  ff.,  I  gave 
an  account,  based  cliiefly  on  Cotton  Mather's  diary  and  some 
hitherto  unpublished  letters  of  his,  of  the  relations  which  during- 
the  last  fifteen  to  twenty  years  of  his  life  he  maintained  with 
August  Hermann  Francke  and  his  friends.  Of  Francke's  part 
in  this  correspondence  I  was  then  unable  to  find  au}^  trace,  and 
it  seems  unlikely  that  anything  from  his  hand  that  was  in  Math- 
er's possession  has  been  preserved.  Fortunately,  however,  the 
library  of  the  Frmickeschc  Stiftungen  at  Halle  still  preserves  a 
copy  in  Francke's  own  handwriting  of  the  long  letter  addressed 
by  him  to  Mather  in  1714  ;  and  during  a  recent  stay  in  Germany 
I  was  allowed,  through  the  kindness  of  the  Waisenhaiis  authori- 
ties, to  transcribe  this  letter.  I  publish  here,  with  close  adher- 
ence to  its  orthography  and  punctuation,  those  parts  of  it  which 
refer  either  to  Francke's  own  work  or  to  things  American, 
leaving  out  the  long  description  of  the  Malabarian  missions.  A 
rather  free  and  not  very  correct  English  translation  of  this  letter, 
by  Anton  Wilhelm  Boehme,  appeared,  soon  after  Mather  had 
received  it,  in  Vol.  Ill  of  the  Picias  Hallcnsis ;  but  the  original 
has  never  been  published  before. 

I  add  a  reprint  of  Mather's  Xuncia  Bona  E  Terra  Longi)iqna 
of  1 7 15,  which  is  in  substance  a  spirited  recapitulation  of  the 
account  given  in  Francke's  letter,  interspersed  with  sympathetic 
reflections  and  moral  exhortations.  This  treatise  is  exceedingly 
rare  ;  of  the  four  copies  extant  in  America  (cf.  Sibley's  Har- 
vard Graduates  III,  p.  121)  I  used  the  one  in  the  Boston  Public 
Library. 

As  to  the  historical  importance  of  these  documents,  it  may  be 
said  that  there  hardly  exists  a  more  graphic  or  concise  account 
of    Francke's  great   philanthropic  undertakings    than    the   one 


32  Cotton  Mather  and  Hermann  Francke. 

given  here  by  the  master  himself  to  his  American  admirer  (T 
mention  in  particnlar  the  description  of  the  visit  of  Frederick 
William  I  to  the  IVaisenJinits^  and  the  correspondence  with 
the  Swedish  soldiers  exiled  to  Siberia),  and  that  the  interest 
taken  by  Cotton  Mather  in  these  undertakings  is  one  of  the 
finest  instances  of  that  generous  enthusiasm  and  cosmopoli- 
tanism which  runs  through  American  history,  even  from 
Puritan  times. 


Viro  maxime  Reuerendo  atqne  Amplissimo  D.  Cottono  Mathero 
Ecclesioe  Christi  Bostonensis  in  America  ministro  fidissimo  Au- 
gustus Hermannus  Franckius  vberrimam  in  Christo  salutem 
dicit 

Litteras  Tuas,  die  lo.  Januarii  anni  lyia™  ex  India  Occidenta- 
li  ad  me  datas,  vna  cum  adiunctis  libellis  et  nummo  aureo  ad  d. 
I.  Aprilis  1 713.  rectissime  accepi :  illse  autem,  quas  die  28.  Maii 
171 1,  abs  Te  missas  esse,  scribis,  ac  quarum  exemplum  istis 
incluseras,  mihi  nondum  sunt  redditae.  Sane  ingenti  me  gaudio 
adfecerunt  binse  istae  litterse  Tuae,  tum  propter  donum,  ex  tarn 
remotis  regionibus  praeter  omnem  spem  atque  opinionem  meam 
Orphanotropheo  nostro  oblatum,  librosque  mihi  destinatos,  turn 
prsecipue  cam  ob  causam,  quod  inter  eos,  quibus  caussa  Dei  his 
temporibus  curae  cordique  est  (quorum  multos  per  diuinam  gra- 
tiam  noui)  et  Te  esse  intellexi.  Quod  ipsuni  partim  libris,  ad 
promouendam  Christi  cognitionem  abs  Te  conscriptis,  perspexi, 
partim  ex  sanctiore  voluptate,  quam  ex  institutorum  nostrorum, 
ad  eumdem  finem  spectantium,  delineatione  Te  cepisse,  verbis 
pluribus  narras,  non  imm^erito  iudicaui.  Hinc  factum  est,  ut 
compellatio  Tua,  qua  in  alicuius  libelli  prsefatione  ad  indefessam 
Operis  Dei  continuationem  me  cohortaris,  in  primis  autem  preces 
piaque  vota,  quse  pro  me  meisque  collegis  ac  Orphanotropheo 
nostro  litteris  Tuis  nuncupasti,  quceque  quotidie  abs  Te  pro 
nobis  ad  Deum  fieri  adfirmas,  animum  meum  meorumque  colle- 


Kuno  Francke.  33 

garum  ad  laudandam  inenarrabilein  cselestis  Patris  bonitatem 
mirifice  excitarint.  Pro  quo  diuiiio  beneficio,  et  quod  istam  Tibi 
mentem  indidit,  Ipsi  iterum  iterumque  gratias  ago,  et  vt  eam- 
dem  mentem  Tibi  perpetuam  esse  iubeat,  atque  in  amplificando 
illuc  etiam  locorum  Christi  regno  in  dies  magis  magisque  defi- 
gat,  ex  animo  precor.  Quam  iucundae  igitur  tuse  mihi  fuerunt 
litterae,  tam  vehementer  doleo,  quod  pro  eo,  ac  debui,  illis  respon- 
dere  adhuc  hand  potuerim.  Tanta  nimirum  negotiorum  multi- 
tudine  (quod  vere  adfirmare  possum)  adhuc  distentus  fui  distene- 
orque,  ut,  nisi  Deus  Optimus  Maximus  sua  me  singulari  gratia 
suffulciret  confirmaretque,  succumbendum  mihi  iam  pridem 
fuerit.  Neque  in  laborum  meorum  perfunctione,  in  primis  etiam 
in  responsionibus  ad  amicorum  epistolas,  aliter  mihi  vsu  venire 
solet  ac  torrenti,  qui  ea,  quae  in  strepitu  sibi  potissimum  obuia 
habet,  secum  rapit,  csetera  autem  suo  loco  immota  ac  intacta 
relinquit.  Hinc  prseter  destinationem  meam  fit  quam  saepis- 
sime,  vt  eorum,  quos  alioqui  carissimos  habeo,  epistolis  sero 
respondeam  :  quod  idem  et  Tuis,  Vir  maxime  Reuerende,  litteris 
accidit.  Quamobrem  Te  maiorem  in  modum  rogo  atque  obtes- 
tor,  vt  pro  beneuolo,  quo  es  in  me,  animo  diuturniori  silentio 
meo  ignoscere,  et  banc  seram  responsionem  meliorem  in  partem 
interpretari  hand  dedignere.  Vt  autem  tarditatem  meam  quo- 
dammodo  compensem,  de  statu  rerum  nostrarum  prsesenti,  quippe 
quern  Te  scire  velle,  facile  intelligo,  paullo  fusius  scribam,  illud- 
que  Tibi  me  gratissimum  facturum,  plane  persuasus  sum. 

Miraberis,  scio,  Vir  maxime  Reuerende,  laudabisque  de  nouo 
summam  Dei  prouidentiam,  vbi  ex  iis,  quae  consequentur,  cogno- 
ueris,  quod  Instituta  nostra  in  longe  ampliorem  statum  deducta 
sint  quam  in  quo  tum  temporis  fuerunt,  cum  libellus  Vestigia 
adJmc  viuentis  Dei  inscriptus,  ab  interprete  autem  PI.  Reu. 
Antonio  Giiilliebno  Boehmio  Pietas  Hallensis  dictus  lingua  An- 
glicana  in  lucem  exiit.  Quod  enim  primum  ad  Orphanotroph- 
eum  attinet,  in  hoc  ipso,  velut  ex  praefatione,  dicti  libelli  epit- 
omse  (Anglice  Abstract)  praemissa,  apparet,  trecenti  et  sexaginta 
homines  eo  tempore  victu  fruiti  sunt,  nunc  vero  eorum  numerus 
vltra  centum  adauctus  est,  quibus  et  prandium  et  coena  quotidie 


3^1-  Cotton  MatJicr  and  Hermann  Franckc. 

paratur.  Sunt  niminim  hodie  centum  pueri  orpliani,  puellse 
triginta,  tirones  in  officina  typographica,  libraria,  pliarmaceutica, 
cum  famulis  ancillisque,  oeconomo  ministrantibus,  viginti  quat- 
uor ;  quibus  omnibus  prseter  prandium  et  coenam  ientaculum 
quoque  et  amictus  necessarius  porrigitur.  Cseteri  conuictores 
sunt  partim  Theologise  Studiosi,  partim  etiam  scholares,  qui 
scholas  Orphanotrophei  frequentant.  Ex  his  centum  et  quin- 
quaginta  Theologise  Studiosos  Ordinarios  conuictores  dicimus  ; 
quod,  cum  in  conuictum  recipiuntur,  certus  ipsis  locus  in  men- 
sis  assignatur,  ea  quidem  lege,  vt  ad  testandum  gratum  animum 
singulis  diebus  duas  quisque  horas  vel  iuuentutem  in  scholis 
nostris  doceant,  vel  sermones  publice  habitos,  aliaque,  ad  publi- 
can! vtilitatem  spectantia,  describant.  Ex  his  duodecim  sum- 
tibus  Anglicanis  hue  vsque  aluntur,  quos  Annam^  Magnse  Bri- 
tannise  Reginam,  gloriosissimse  memorise,  suppeditasse,  post 
ipsius  obitum  demum  resciuimus.  Pro  hoc  autem  beneficio 
ad  discendam  docendamque  linguam  Anglicanam  et  verten- 
dos  libros  Anglicanos  in  nostram  Germanicam,  et  Germani- 
cos  in  vestram  Anglicanam,  obligati  sunt.  Vnde  iste  conuictus 
et  societas  nomen  Menses  AnglicaneE  sortita  est.  Reliqui  Theo- 
logise Studiosi  et  scholares  Extraordinarii  appellantur,  qui  circa 
meridiem  paullo  vilioribus,  quam  isti,  ad  explendam  tamen 
famem  sufficientibus,  cibis  pascuntur.^  Horum  in  numero  non 
iidem  quotidie  sunt,  sed  illi  duntaxat,  qui,  cum  in  Orphanotro- 
pheo  prandere  volunt,  hora  matutina  septima  nomina  sua  certo 
Theologise  Candidato  profitentur,  id  quod  omnibus  omnino 
Theologise  Studiosis,  nisi  quis  forte  nialae  famse  sit,  licitum  est. 
Vnoquoque  autem  die  pro  centum  et  quadraginta  quatuor  victus 
paratur :  quern  numerum  qui  excedunt,  inter  primos  sequentis 
diei  conuictores  referuntur.  Ita  fit,  vt  pauperes  quique,  si  non 
omnibus,  plerisque  tamen,  diebus  prandium,  idque  prorsum  gra- 
tuitum,  habeant.  Pro  hoc  ipso  enim  hi  conuictores  extraordi- 
narii ad  nullum  plane  officium  prsestandum  obstricti  sunt.  Sub 
vesperam  ex  iisdem  Theologise  Studiosis  quadraginta  quatuor, 

'  The  English  translation  has  :  "  who  have  also  a  tolerable  subsistance  allow'd 
them." 


Kuno  Francke. 


35 


ex  scliolaribiis  an  tern  centum  ad  Orphanotrophei  mensas  itidem 
admittuntur,  hoc  tamen  discrimine,  vt  omnes  tunc  habeant 
locum  certum  ac  ordinarium  pro  quo  Studiosi  (scholares  et  hie 
plane  gratis  recipiuntur),  vnam  quotidie  horam  vel  pueris  insti- 
tuendis  vel  certo  penso  describendo  impendere  debent.  Quam- 
quam  autem  in  tanta  conuictorum  multitudine  quotidie  plures 
vel  pauciores  desiderari  solent,  qui  vel  ob  morbum,  vel  iter,  vel 
alias  ob  caussas  prsesto  non  sunt,  nihilominus  tamen  omni  tem- 
pore pro  completo  conuictorum  coetu  cibi  preeparantur.  In 
absentium  ergo  loca,  sine  isti  fuerint  ordinarii,  sine  extraordina- 
rii,  in  coena  certum  locum  habentes,  ex  exspectantibus  tot  sub- 
stituuntur,  quot  sedes  vacant.  Exspectantes  vero  eos  appellamus, 
qui  impetrata  a  nobis  venia  ad  fores  coenaculi  prcestolantur, 
absentium  vices  expleturi.  Horum  omnium  (qui  in  prsesenti 
circa  meridiem  sunt  quinquaginta  Studiosi,  sub  vesperam  autem 
centum  et  sedecim,  et  scholares  septuaginta  duo)  nomina  certae 
schedulse  inscripta  exstant.  Quam  primum  ergo  de  vacantibus 
quibusdam  locis  compertum  est,  illi  triclinium  intrant,  quos  eo 
tempore  ordo  tangit,  id  quod  e  publica  nominum  recitatione 
quiuis  facile  intelligit.  Discedente  vno  alteroue  ordinario,  in 
eorum  locum  ii  Theologise  Studiosi  ex  extraordinariis  et  exspec- 
tantibus conuictoribus  surrogantur,  quorum  de  industria  in  lit- 
terarum  et  pietatis  studio  prse  reliquis  ex  Inspectoris  mensarum, 
vel  alius  cuiusdam  fide  digni,  commendatione  nobis  innotuit. 

Cum  vero  hoc  Institutum,  vt  ex  hactenus  dictis  liquet,  ad  eos 
tantum  attineat,  qui  ipsi  prsesentes  adeoque  sano  corpore  sunt, 
ut  accedere  in  Orphanotropheum  ad  cibos  capiendos  possint,  pan- 
els adhuc  indicabo,  quse  diuinse  providentise  auspiciis  in  segro- 
tantium  commoditatem  accesserint.  Horum  quidem  iam  ab  ini- 
tio ratio  a  nobis  semper  est  habita,  nunc  autem  multo  melior 
haberi  potest.  Emta  nimirum  a  nobis  est  iam  Anno  1703.  vinea, 
non  procul  ab  Orphanotropheo  in  aperto  campo  sita,  cuius  in 
anteriore  parte  domus  erat,  quam  anno  1708.  segrotantium  vsui 
accommodandam  curauimus,  et  nunc  Nosocomhim  appellamus. 
Si  quis  ergo  ex  pueris  nostris  orphanis  in  morbum  incidit,  ex 
Orphanotropheo  in  has  cedes  deportatur,  et  quotidie  ab  ordinario 


36  Cotton  MatJier  and  Herinann  Francke. 

Medico  visitiir :  medicamenta  necessaria  ex  medici  prsescripto 
applicantiir,  cibique  salubriores,  si  quos  aegrotus  capere  potest, 
praeparantur.  Adest  et  feinina  prcesto,  quae  segrotis  ministret. 
Theologise  Studiosi  et  scholarum  nostrarum  alumni,  de  quorum 
egestate  nobis  constat,  iisdem  conditionibus  recipiuntur.  Immo 
vero  nonnunquam  peregrini  opificum  administri  hoc  beneficio 
fruiti  sunt,  et  hac  ratione  conualuerunt,  quibus  alias  ob  summam 
egestatem  et  miseriam,  in  qua  a  magistris  suis  et  reliquis  homi- 
nibus  deserti  decubuerunt,  pereundum  fuisset ;  qui  ipsi  deinceps 
prse  cceteris  grato  animo  collata  in  se  beneficia  agnouerunt.  In 
his  sedibus  veteran  us  quidam  Theologise  Studiosus  certum  con- 
claue  habitat,  cui  negotium  datum  est,  vt  segrotantes  inspectet, 
cum  ipsis  oret  ac  cantet,  et  quae  singulis  diebus  contingunt 
notatu  digna,  certo  libro  inscribat.  Certus  autem  eorum,  qui 
heic  sustentantur  atque  curantur,  numerus  statui  non  potest. 
Quo  plures  autem  adsunt,  eo  maior  est  illo  tempore  conuictorum 
numerus :  siquidem  horum  aegrotantium  locum,  quem  quisque 
in  ipso  Orphanotrophei  triclinio  habet,  non  vacare,  sed  ab  exspec- 
tantibus,  vt  paullo  ante  indicatum  est,  occupari  sinimus.  Csete- 
rum  iis  scholarum  nostrarum  alumnis,  qui  parentum  suorum 
sumtibus  apud  nos  aluntur,  peculiare  Nosocomium  est,  in  quo 
aegrotantes  curantur.  Puellae  etiam  orphanae  in  suis,  quas  habi- 
tant, aedibus  certum  conclaue  habent,  aegrotis  destinatum. 

Haec  sunt  quae  de  externa  pauperum  in  Orphanotropheo  nos- 
tro  sustentatione  scribi  oportere  iudicavi.  Cuius  quidem  diuini 
beneficii  tanta  omnino  magnitudo  est,  vt  paternam  summi 
Numinis  prouidentiam,  quae  in  eo  sese  prodit,  admirari  potius, 
quam  penitus  cognoscere  mecum  Deum  timentes  quique  possint. 
Non  autem  in  his  externis  augendis  diuina  prouidentia  substitit ; 
sed  in  spiritualibus  etiam,  et  ad  animorum  culturam  spectanti- 
bus,  beneficiis  multo  illustrior  facta  est.  Schola  enim  Orphano- 
trophei, in  qua  iuuentus  ad  viuam  Christi  cognitionem,  partim 
etiam  simul  ad  litterarum  studia  eruditur,  ita  adaucta  est,  vt  si 
hodiernum  discentium  praecipientiumque  numerum  cum  eo 
quem  supra  dicto  tempore  habuit,  comparaueris,  ingentem 
accessionem    facile   sis    animaduersurus.     In    Germanica  enim 


Kii7to  Francke.  yj 

Schola  (quae  ita  a  nobis  dicitur,  vt  distinguatur  ab  ea,  in  qua 
lingua;  peregrinse  et  disciplinse  docentur,  quamque  a  potioribus 
lectionibus  Latinam  denominamus,  et  post  paullo  delineabimus), 
nunc  per  classes  triginta  duas  una  cum  orphanis  supra  nomina- 
tis  alii  etiam  pueri  puellseque  plus  minusue  mille  sexcenti  ^  ab 
octoginta  sex  prseceptoribus  in  praecipuis  fidei  Cliristianse  capit- 
ibus,  nee  non  in  Calligraphia  et  Arithmetica,  et  quidem  plerique 
gratis,  reliqui  autem  pro  exiguo  admodum  didactro  instituuntur. 
Hanc  scholam  inspectat  quidam  verbi  diuini  Minister,  qui  in 
hoc  negotio  ex  prseceptoribus  senioribus  duos  sibi  administros 
adoptauit.  In  Latina  Schola  lingua  Latina  per  octo,  Graeca 
vero  et  Hebraica  per  sex  ordines  docetur.  Praeterea  Theologia, 
Historia,  Geographia,  Oratoria,  Logica,  Musica  vocalis,  Calligra- 
phia, Arithmetica,  et  Matheseos  rudimenta  inculcantur.  Dis- 
cipuli  in  hac  schola  hoc  tempore  sunt  amplius  trecenti,  quos 
inter  ex  ipsis  etiam  orphanis  nostris  illi  cooptantur,  quibus  feli- 
cius  ingenium  diuinitus  datum  est.  Caeteri  partim  sunt  ciues 
Hallenses,  partim  peregrini,  non  tantum  ex  plerisque  Germaniae 
nostrae  prouinciis  hue  vel  missi,  vel  profecti,  sed  exteri  quo- 
que,  Britanni,  Bataui,  Heluetii,  Hungari,  Sueci,  Liuoni,  Poloni 
aliique.  Quorum  itidem  plerique  gratuita  institutione  fruun- 
tur,  cseterorum  quisque  sex  thaleros  (quorum  quinque  libram 
Anglicanam  vnam  fere  aequant)  didactri  annul  loco  soluunt. 
Praeceptores  in  hoc  schola  sunt  viginti  sex,  Inspectores  duo ; 
nimirum  supra  dictus  verbi  diuini  Minister  et  quidam  Theologiae 
Candidatus. 

Quatuor  quotannis  vtriusque  scholae,  Germanicae  videlicet  et 
Latinae,  lustrationes  in  publico  Orphanotrophei  auditorio  haben- 
tur,  quibus  praeter  eos,  qui  ex  Professoribus,  Senatoribus,  Eccle- 
siae  Ministris  et  ciuibus  litteratis  Hallensibus  inuitati  compa- 
rent,  Studiosis  quibuscumque  interesse  licet.  Finita  quaque 
lustratione  alumni  omnes  a  praeceptoribus  suis  in  auditorium 
modo  dictum  deducuntur,  ibique  ad  gratam  collatorum  in  se 
diuinorum  beneficiorum  agnitionem,  ad  industriam  in  discendo, 
ad  obedientiam  erga  magistros  ac  serium  pietatis  studium  ser- 

^  In  the  English  translation  :  "  about  six  hundred  children." 


38  Cotton  Mather  and  Hermaini  Francke. 

mone  publico  a  me  excitantur.  Quo  facto  libelli,  eiusiuodi  fere 
vt  Tui  ad  nos  missi,  et  similae  vel  spirse,  pruna,  poma  aliaue  id 
genus  esculenta,  quos  pra^sens  anni  tempus  exhibet,  sinj^ulis 
alumnis  a  me  et  duobus  Inspectoribus  distribuuntur.  Ouibus 
munusculis  instructi  Iceti  hilaresque,  paruuli  in  primis,  domum 
se  recipiunt.^  Alio  die  Prceceptores  vniuersi  conuocantur,  quos 
ad  dilio-entiam  fidelitatemque  in  officio  suo,  circumspectionem 
in  quotidiana  cum  disci pulis  consuetudine,  prudentiam  in  repre- 
hensionibus  et  castigationibus,  in  primis  vero  ad  sincerum  Dei 
timorem  et  preces,  sine  quibus  labor  eorum  irritus  foret,  ex- 
h  or  tor. 

Augescentibus  autem  in  Orphanotropheo  conuictoribus  ac  in 
schola  eius  vtraque  alumnis,  spatium  deesse  coepit.  Hinc  anno 
1709.  pro  puellarum  orphanarum  habitaculo,  earumque  ac  csete- 
rarum  ex  Urbe  Hala  et  suburbiis  hue  confluentium  scliolis  pecu- 
liarem  domum,  pedes  sexaginta  longam,  triginta  quatuor  latam, 
et  tres  contignationes  altam  exstruere  necesse  fuit.  Qua  occu- 
pata  etsi  in  prioribus  oedibus  non  mediocre  spatium  lucrati  nobis 
videbamur,  nihilo  tamen  secius,  paruo  interiecto  tempore,  denuo 
in  angustias  redacti,  de  tentoriis  nostris  latius  extendendis  cogi- 
tare  debebamus.  Erant  in  Orphanotropheo  tria  spatiosiora  con- 
clauia,  quorum  in  uno  Theologi£e  Studiosis  collegia  et  per  heb- 
domadem  duabus  horis  sermones  publici  vtriusque  sexus  homin- 
ibus,  hue  tanquam  ad  publicum  oratorium  aut  templum  sponte 
commeantibus,  a  me  habebantur :  in  duobus  reliquis  conuictores 
coenabant.  Deficiente  ergo  scholis  habendis  spatio  adhuc  alias 
sedes  sedificare  animum  induximus,  vt  auditorio  illo  coenacu- 
loque  ex  anterioribus  asdibus  in  hasce  nouas  translato,  mains  spa- 
tium lucraremur.  Huius  domus  anno  17 10.  exstrui  coeptse 
transactoque  biennio  perfectse  longitudo  ducentis,  latitudo  quad- 
raginta  pedibus  constat ;  altitudo  autem,  etsi  cum  anterioris 
sic  dicti  Orphanotrophei,  cuius  dextro  lateri  annexa  est,  altitu- 
dine  vbique  conuenit,  ex  parte  tamen  duabus  tantum,  ex  parte 
autem  quatuor  contignationibus,  absoluitur.  In  inferiore  sedium 
parte  dimidia  coenaculum  est,  centum  pedes  longum,  latitudine 


1  The  sentence  is  left  out  in  the  English  translation. 


Kinio  Francke.  39 

eadem,  qua  totum  Gedificium  ;  altitudine  aiitem  viginti  pedum  ; 
tanta  fere,  quantam  duse  alioquiu  coutiguationes  habere  soleut : 
idque  ideo,  vt  ciborum  vapores  eo  melius  dispell!  possint,  nee  con- 
uictores  inter  comedendum  incommodent,  quippe  qui  vniuersi, 
quos  supra  recensuimus  (si  a  puellis  orphanis  ancillisque,  vtpote 
quibus  peculiare  triclinium  est,  discesseris)  hoc  conclaui  congre- 
gati  simul  accumbunt.     Huic  coenaculo  in  altera  parte  dimidia 
proxima  est  culina,  officina  pistoria,  aliaque  conclauia,  vsibus 
oeconomicis  accommodata.     In  secunda  sedium  parte  superiore 
reperitur  auditorium,  in  quo  lectiones  Theologicse  et  publicse 
adhortationes,  de  quibus  diximus  supra,  habentur.  Aeque  latum 
est  ac  modo  dictum  coenaculum,  octo  autem   pedes  illo  altius, 
et  quinquaginta  longius,  adeoque  tres  totius  sedificii  partes  quad- 
rantes  absoluit,  omnesque  capit  scholarum  nostrarum  alumnos 
et  prseceptores,  quorum  sunt  duo  milia  et  amplius,  qui  post  lus- 
trationes  scholarum  publicas,  quemadmodum  modo  diximus,  in 
eo  simul  congregari    soleut.     Reliqua  huius  sedificii  conclauia 
prseter  alios   quidam    pueri  Anglicani    tenent,  qui   partim    Or- 
phanotrophei,  partim  Psedagogii  Regii  (de  quo  locuturi  sumus 
infra)  scholas  frequentant,  atque   hinc  ista    ^dium   regio,   das 
Englimdische  Haus^  id  est,  doimts  Anglicana  appellitatur. 

Auditorium  pristinum  et  duo  coenacula  in  anteriore  Orphano- 
tropheo  partim  scholis  habendis,  partim  locandae  Bibliothecae 
aptata  sunt,  quae  quorumdam  moribundorum  donationibus  testa- 
mentariis  ad  aliquot  voluminum  millia  excreuit,  et  nunc  quat- 
uor  quotidie  horas  studiosse  iuuentuti  patet. 

lam  quidem  Dominus  ita  nobis  habitacula  dilatauerat,  vt  dis- 
cipuli  haberent,  vbi  ad  arripienda  pietatis  et  bonarum  litterarum 
studia  conuenirent :  deerant  autem  adhuc  musea  et  cubicula,  in 
quibus  illi,  qui  ex  peregrinis  locis  hue  conuolant,  studia  sua 
priuatim  tractare  et  dormire  possent  Dispersi  erant  scholares 
per  Glaucham  (quod  est  suburbii  nomen,  quo  habitamus,  moeni- 
bus  ciuitatis  Halae  contigui)  in  diuersis  et  partim  ab  Orphano- 
tropheo  remotioribus  £edibus :  vnde  non  exigua  non  tantum 
incommoda,  sed  damna  etiam  ad  illos  redundabant.  Quibus 
igitur  cum  mederi  cupereraus,  non  alia  via  nobis  ineunda  vide- 


40  Cotton  Mather  and  Hermann  Francke. 

batur,  quam  vt  in  eonim  gratiam  peciiliarem  etiam  domum 
curaremus  exstruendam.  Hoc  consilium,  quod  anno  superiore 
coepimus,  Deus  Opt.  Max.  ita  secundauit,  vt  eo  vsque  iam  per- 
fecta  sit,  vt  proximo  vere  ineunte  occupari  a  dictis  scholaribus 
possit.  In  hoc  sedificio  scholares  aliquot  eodem  contubernio 
iungentur  ;  quibus  (veluti  iam  inde  ab  initio  scholse  factum  est) 
ex  praeceptoribus  vnus  prseficietur,  qui  tempore  a  lectionibus 
publicis  (quae  vt  paullo  ante  meminimus,  in  sedibus  Orphano- 
tropliei  habentur)  vacuo  eorum  vitam  et  mores  inspectet,  studia 
diiigat,  ac  hora  matutina  quinta,  vbi  e  somno  expergiscuntur,  et 
nona  vespertina,  antequam  ad  lectum  sese  conferant,  Scripturam 
Sacram  cum  ipsis  tractet,  precibusque  fundendis  eos  prseeat.  Et 
cum  ex  his  pueris  ac  adolescentibus  multi  parentum  suorum 
sumtibus  hie  viuant,  certus  oeconomus,  non  in  Orphanotroplieo, 
sed  alia  quadam  domo  in  suburbio  nostro  constitutus  est,  qui 
statuto  pretio  victum  ipsis  curet :  qua  ex  re  si  quid  lucri  existit, 
non  ad  Orphanotropheum,  sed  ad  ipsum  oeconomum  redit.  In  ^ 
nouis,  modo  dictis  et  vere  proximo  occupandis,  sedibus  huic 
oeconomo  triclinia,  culina,  aliaque  ad  hoc  negotium  necessaria, 
conclauia  attribuentur.  Atque  ita  adolescentes  eo  commodius  in 
posterum  et  habitabunt  et  coenabunt.  Reliqui  pauperiores 
mensa  extraordinaria  in  Orphanotroplieo,  vt  iam  supra  monui- 
mus,  gratis  fruuntur.  Per  aestiuos  et  autumnos  decurrentis 
huius  anni  menses  in  exstruendis  duabus  adhuc  aliis  domibus 
occupati  fuimus,  quarum  altera  iuxta  dextrum,  altera  vero  ad 
sinistrum  modo  dictarum  sedium  latus  erecta  est.  Tria  ista 
sediiicia,  inter  se  nexa,  longa  sunt  quadringentos,  lata  autem 
quadraginta  pedes,  et  quinque  contignationes  alta,  atque  e  lon- 
ginquo  spectantibus  vna  quasi  domus  videntur.  De  fine  ac  vsu 
vtriusque  recentioris  domus  hsec  cognosce.  Diximus  supra,  quod 
Studiosi  Theologise  ordinaria  mensa  in  Orphanotroplieo  fruentes, 
duas  quisque  horas  quotidie  iuuentutem  formare  ex  officio  ten- 
eantur.  Quum  autem  multi  ex  scholis  inferioribus  in  acade- 
miam  nostram  Fridericianam  perueniant,  humanioribus,  vt 
vocantur,  studiis  vel  ipsi  non  satis  iiiibuti,  vel  facili  methodo  ea 


1  The  three  followino:  sentences  are  left  out  in  the  English  translation. 


Kuno  Francke.  41 

aliis  tradere  nescientes,  in  optandis  prasceptoribus  magna  nobis 
difficultas  ssepissime  obiecta  fiiit.     Si  quos  idoneos  forsan  nacti, 
aliquamdiu  habuimus,  vel  a  parentibus  donium  reuocati,  vel   a 
patronis  ad  officium  publicum  postulati  sunt ;  atque  ita  nos  in 
pristinam  difficultatem  denuo  implicati  fuimus.     Qua  igitur  vt 
nos  liberaremus   iam  ante  aliquot  annos,  Deo  adnuente  certum 
prcBceptortmi    Seminarmm.    constituimus,    in    quod    nonnullos 
Theologise  cul tores  adsciuimus,  eum  in  finem,  vt  per  integrum 
biennium  ad  docendas  in  Orphanotropheo  et  Psedagogio  Regio 
meliores  litteras  prsepararentur,  atque  sic  prseparati  tres  inini- 
mum  annos  scholis  nostris  operam  suam  addicerent.     Prosperauit 
Deus  illud  quoque  consilium,  vt  ex  hoc  Seminario  non  pauci 
prodierint,  qui  niulto  cum  fructu  studiosae  iuuentuti  pr^fuer- 
unt,  et  partim   adhuc  prsesunt.      Neque  vero  ad   nostras   tan- 
tummodo  scholas,  sed  alia  quoque  gymnasia  et  ludos  litterarios 
intra  et  extra  Germanise  fines  dicti  Seminarii  vsus  redundauit 
Saepissime  enim  ex  nostris  Institutis  prseceptores  domestici  et 
publici  a  patronis  petuntur ;  a  nobis  vero,  quoad    fieri  potest, 
promtissime  mittuntur.     Vnde  fit,  vt,  qui  heic  ex  vsu  iam  habi- 
tum    docendi  sibi    acquisiuere,   alibi   locorum  eo   maiore    cum 
emolumento  atque  adplausu  iuuentuti  prsecipiant.     At  vero  cum 
consuetus  Studiosorum  in  hoc  Seminario  numerus  exiguus  hue 
vsque    fuerit,    adeoque    vix    nostris    scholis    suffecerit,    eorum 
numerum  non  mediocriter  augere  decreuimus.     Quorum  igitur 
in  studia  ac  vitam  vt  eo  melius  inspici  ac  inquiri  possit,  ex  his 
illi,  quorum  consulendum  est  egestati,  aut  quorum  saltem   id 
feret  reliqua  vitse  conditio,  alterutra  domo  iungentur.     In  alte- 
ram domum  itidem  insignem  Studiosorum  numerum  adsciscere 
animus  est,  vt  Unguis  studiisque  sacris,  inprimis  etiam  exercitiis 
catecheticis,  ad  quae  in  scholis  nostris  Germanicis  occasio  ipsis 
praebebitur,  ad  functiones  Ministerii  Ecclesiastici,  moderantibus 
quibusdam  Inspectoribus,  sese  praeparent.     In  ipsa  quidem  aca- 
demia  nos  Theologiae  Professores  hunc  scopum  nobis  proposi- 
tum   ex  officio  habemus,   vt  Theologiae  Studiosos    ad    munera 
ecclesiastica  prajparemus  :  nee  defuerunt  vmquam  ex  auditori- 
bus  nostris,  quos  auxiliante  diuina  gratia  ad  istum  scopum  felici- 


42  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke. 

ter  perduximus.  Eiiim  vero  cum  Theologise  Studiosorum  in 
Germania  nostra  ea  sit  conditio,  vt  plerique  propter  egestatem  in 
academiis  diutius  subsistere  hand  queant,  sed  ante,  quam  studia 
eorum  maturitatem  consecuta  sunt,  discedere  cogantur,  huic 
incommodo  hac  ratione  occurrere  cupimus,  dum  certum  nunie- 
rum  ex  eiusmodi  studiosis,  qui  aliquamdiu  Theologiae  operam 
iam  dederunt,  diligentiamque  suam  et  vitse  probitatem  nobis 
testatam  fecerunt,  ad  hoc  institutum  seligere,  illisque  studia  in 
hac  academia  longius  prosequendi  subsidia  procurare,  animum 
induximus.  Ita  per  diuinam  gratiam  futurum  esse  confidimus, 
vt  omni  tempore  tales  in  promtu  habeamus  sacri  Ministerii  ac 
muneris  scholastici  Candidates,  qui,  Deo  occasionem  ofFerente, 
tamquam  fidi  operarii  in  messem  extrudi  possint. 

Huic  institute  simile  est  aliud,  quod  iamante  hos  duodecim, 
et  quod  excurrit,  annos  coepit,  et  Collegium  Orientale  Theologi- 
cum  dicitur.  In  hoc  ipsum  initio  duodecim  Theologise  Studiosi 
selectioribus  ingeniis  praediti,  qui  aliquot  iam  annis  in  littera- 
rum  studia  ac  verse  pietatis  exercitium  incubuerant,  cooptaban- 
tur,  eo  quidem  consilio,  vt  Theologiam  et  linguas  Orientales  ex 
Ordinis  Theologici  praescripto  ita  excolerent,  vt  non  tantum  alios 
Theologise  Studiosos  linguas  et  disciplinas  docere  possent,  sed 
digni  quoque  euaderent,  quibus  maxime  ardua  munera  ecclesias- 
tica  et  academica  aliquando  demandarentur.  In  Orphanotro- 
pheo  primum  musea  habuerunt  sua,  paullo  autem  post  ob  con- 
clauium  penuriam  in  ipsa  urbe  Hala  conductas  a  nobis  sedes 
habitare  coeperunt.  Studia  sua  sub  loaniiis  Heinrici  Michaelis 
Grsecse  et  O.  O.  L.  L.  Prof.  Publ.  Ordinarii,  directione,  inspec- 
tante  simul  loanne  Tribbechoiiio^  Philosophise  tum  temporis  Pro- 
fessore  Extraordinario,  et  postea  Georgii,  Serenissimi  Principis 
Danici,  in  Anglia  concionatore  aulico,  iam  beate  defuncto,  exco- 
luerunt.  Accessenmt  hue  circa  illud  tempus  studiorum  caussa 
quinque  iuvenes,  natione  et  patria  Grseci,  qui  quum  itidem 
Orphanotrophei  sumtibus  heic  alerentur,  isti  coetui  iungeban- 
tur.  Hinc  quidam  ex  Nostris  occasione  addiscendse  Grsecse 
linguse  hodiernse  vulgaris,  quam  pwiiatxrf^  seu  r.e^-^v  illi  vocant, 
opportune  sibi   oblata,  sedulo  vsi  sunt.      In  primis  autem  b. 


Kiino  Francke.  43 

Tribbechouius  intra  aliquot  mensium  spatiiim  tantam  huiiis  lin- 
giise  acquisiuit  facultatem,  vt  non  modo  satis  scite  loqueretur, 
sed  Grammaticam  etiam  (cui  Anastasiiis  Michael  Macedo,  reli- 
quorum  Graecornm  natu  qiiidem  minimus,  sed  ingenio  prse  cse- 
teris  maxime  pollens,  epistolam  bene  longam  subiunxit)  ederet, 
aliosque  huius  linguae  cupidos  doceret.  Ex  Grsecis  autem  tres 
in  lingua  Grseca  vetusta  {jpajLiianxr^  illis  dicta)  quippe  quam 
isti  ignorabant,  instituebantur  ;  in  Latinam  vero  ignotam  omni- 
bus omnes  incumbere  necesse  habebant,  donee,  ea  ipsa  mediocri- 
ter  comprehensa,  publicas  lectiones  frequentare  possent.  Inte- 
rim collegii  huius  alumni  ordinarii  non  tantum  aliis  Theologise 
cultoribus  linguas  Orientales  et  disciplinas  Philosophicas  prse- 
legerunt,  sed  et  in  adornanda  accuratissima,  ac  notis  criticis 
locisque  parallelis  accommodatissimis  refertissima,  Bibliorum 
Hebraicorum  editione,  Professore  Michaelis  moderante,  fuerunt 
occupati.  Quae  quidem  Biblia  iam  pridem  sumtibus  Orpliano- 
trophei  imprimi  coepta,  at  ob  varia  obstacula  nondum  plane 
excusa  sunt :  fore  tanien  speramus,  vt  intra  anni  spatium  peni- 
tus  absoluantur.  Quibus  editis  ad  studium  Biblicum  Hebrai- 
cum  digne  tractandum  non  exiguam  inde  facem  Theologise  cul- 
toribus prselatum  iri,  adeoque  huius  collegii  vsum  in  Ecclesia 
Dei  vel  inde  vberrimum  futurum,  confidimus.  Accedit,  quod 
istorum  alumnorum  plerique  iam  aliquot  annis  Ecclesioe  Dei 
partim  in  Germania  nostra,  partim  in  exteris  regionibus  publica 
munera  obeundo  vtilem  operam  praestiterint.  Ex  quibus  prae- 
cipue  nominare  placet  Christianum  Benedictuni  Michaelis^  supra 
dicti  Professoris  agnatum,  qui,  postquam  de  studiosa  iuuentute 
pluribus  annis  Grseca,  Hebraica,  Rabbinica,  Syriaca,  Arabica, 
Aethiopica  docendo  optime  meritus  fuit,  a  Serenissimo  Rege 
nostro  Professor  Philosophise  Ordinarius  constitutus  est,  et  cum 
agnato  suo  (qui  ex  anno  1709.  Theologiae  quoque  Professor  Ordi- 
narius est)  in  perficiundo  opere  biblico  potissimum  nunc  desu- 
dat.  Etsi  autem,  postea  quam  ante  aliquot  menses  vltimus 
huius  collegii  alumnus  ad  officium  publicum  promotus  fuit,  cer- 
tis  de  caussis  nouos  in  illud  nondum  adsciuimus,  suo  tamen,  et 
forsan,  Deo  ita  adnuente,  primo  quoque  tempore  alios  cooptare 
cogitamus. 


44  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke, 

Habes,  Vir  maxime  Reuerende,  pleraque  Orphanotrophei 
nostri  instituta  :  Quae  cum  ad  tot  pauperum  minorum  adultior- 
iimque  sustentationem  et  institutionem  in  cognitione  et  timore 
Domini  ac  bonis  artibus,  adeoque  ad  diuinse  glorise  amplificatio- 
nem  spectent,  omnes  omnino  homines  banc  mirificam  coelestis 
Patris  prouidentiam  benignitatemque  submisso  animo  venerari 
merito  debeant.  At  vero,  cum  pleriqiie  coeca,  multa  etiam  ma- 
litiosa  ac  inuida  mente  laborent,  mirum  non  est,  quod  ab  illis 
haec  omnia  parui  fiant,  ab  his  autem  contemnantur,  et  tam- 
quam  noxia  damnentur.  Inter  ipsos  verbi  diuini  ministros,  proh 
dolor !  non  defuerunt,  qui  verbis  et  scriptionibus  acerbissimis 
haec  diuinse  prouidentise  monimenta  perstringere  non  erubuer- 
unt.  Quibus  ad  vindicandam,  non  nostram  (quippe  cui  baud 
velificamur)  sed  summi  Numinis  gloriam  scriptis  apologeticis 
respondendum  aliquoties  fuit.  Qua  occasione  praeter  horuni 
maledicorum  destinationem  et  opinionem  factum  est,  vt  multis 
hominibus  de  his  institutis  eorumque  vera  ratione  innotuerit, 
quibus  alioquin  ilia  plane  ignota  fuerant  et  forte  mansissent. 
Hinc  multi  gaudium,  quod  ex  horum  institutorum  descriptione 
et  defensione  ceperant,  testaturi  dona  sua  piis  precibus  ac  votis 
quasi  inuoluta,  multi  etiam  liberos  suos  in  scholis  nostris  edu- 
candos,  miserunt.  Nee  pauci  hsec  instituta  ipsis  oculis  suis 
contemplatum  ex  ipsis  etiam  remotioribus  locis  accesserunt, 
prcesentesque  diuiuam  benignitatem  admirati  nobiscum  hilari 
ore  laudarunt.  Ita  Deus  impios  inimicorum  nostrorum  conatus 
non  tantum  irritos  reddidit,  sed  in  operis  sui  emolumentum  et 
amplificationem  cedere  iussit.  Cuius  rei  adhuc  illustre  exem- 
plum  narrabo.  Cum  anno  superiore  ineunte  Fridericus  Rex 
noster  clementissimus,  cuius  sub  sceptro  instituta  nostra  incho- 
ata  et  eo  vsque  non  sine  ipsius  voluptate  continuata  fuerant,  diem 
obiret  supremum  et  filius  unicus  Fridericus  Guilliebnus  ipsi  in 
regno  succederet,  maleuoli  quique  de  nostris  institutis  nunc 
actum  esse  conclamitabant,  ante  victoriam  quasi  triumphantes. 
Enim  vero,  etsi  ex  quorumdam,  bonorum  etiam,  narratione  iam 
antea  nobis  innotuerat,  Principem,  quorumdam  maleuolorum 
criminationibus  inductum,  minus  clementer  de  nobis  et  institu- 


Kuno  Francke.  45 

tis  nostris  sentire,  tanien  per  Dei  gratiam,  qua  confidebamns, 
plane  aliter  euenit  ac  plerique  amici  pariter  ac  inimici  cogitau- 
erant.  Peruenerat  hie  nouus  Rex  noster  paiillo  post,  qiiam  reg- 
num  suum  erat  auspicatus,  prope  Halam  milites  suos,  ex  Italia 
redenntes,  lustratiim/  Quo  facto  cum  in  vrbem  accessit,  illico 
fama  percrebuit,  Regem  Orphanotropheum  quoque  lustrare 
velle.  Cuius  consilii  nos  certiores  facti,  ad  recipiendum  Regem 
nos  comparabamus.  Instabat  meridies,  vbi  scholis  pueri  et 
puellse  cseterique  scliolares  dimitti  et  conuictores  ad  prandium 
hinc  inde  aduolare  solent.  Ex  istis  igitur  eos,  qui  alias  pran- 
dendi  caussa  domum  se  contulissent,  in  scholis  ad  regis  aduen- 
tiim  a  prseceptoribus  detineri,  cseteros  vero  cum  studiosis  reli- 
quis  suum  quemque  locum  in  triclinio  occupare  iussimus.  Ac- 
cessit igitur  Rex  Leopoldo,  Principe  Anhaltino,  nee  non  Praeside 
Halensi  et  aliquot  prsefectis  bellicis  stipatus.  Submissime  illico 
a  nobis  exceptus  et  per  anteriores  sedes  in  nouas  ad  triclinium, 
in  quo  supra  recensiti  Studiosi  et  scholares  ac  pueri  orphani 
accumbentes  prandebant,  ductus  est.  Substitit  hie  aliquan- 
tum  in  vestibulo  ante  fenestras,  quae  in  spectatorum,  qui  quo- 
tidie  frequenter  adsunt,  gratiam  ita  aptatae  sunt,  vt  vniuersos 
conuictores  obtutui  suo  obiectos  habeant.  Per  has  ipsas  accum- 
bentes paullo  accuratius  contemplatus,  de  orphanorum  educati- 
one  qusedam,  aliaque  hue  facientia,  ex  me  quserebat :  ad  quae 
cum  respondissem,  et  vultu  et  ipsis  verbis,  sibi  ea  omnia  valde 
probari,  significauit.  Hinc  conscendimus  vna  in  auditorium 
superius  spatiosum,  de  cuius  vsu  itidem  varia  interrogauit,  et 
cum  a  me  percepisset,  collegia  Studiosis  et  adhortationes  populo  in 
eo  ipso  haberi,  intellexissetque,  quo  modoetquo  fine  illae  fierent, 
non  obscure  innuit,  sibi  de  his  conuentibus  prorsus  alia  fuisse 
relata ;  quae  vbi  nunc  ita,  quemadmodum  ipsi  exposueram,  se 
habere  cognouit,  non  minus  sibi  placere  testatus  est.  Habitant 
proxime  ad  ostium,  per  quod  ex  hoc  auditorio  descendendum 
erat,  pueri  Anglicani,  qui  vna  cum  Theologiae  Studiosis  Angli- 


^  The  following  detailed  and  graphic  account  of  Frederick  William's  visit  to 
the  Franckian  institutions  is  condensed  in  the  English  translation  into  a  few 
colorless  sentences. 


46  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke. 

canis  e  miiseo  suo  ad  spectandum  regem  egressi  fuerant.  Hos 
Rex  conspiciens,  quinam  essent,  interrogaiiit  acceptoque  a  nobis 
response  humanissime  eos  allocutus  est.  Inde  progress!  in  puel- 
larum  sedes  deuenimns,  in  quibus  miratus  est  tantam  praesentium 
piiellarum  mnltitudinein.  Spectatis  deinceps  pnellis  orphanis, 
eo  ipso  tempore  etiam  prandentibus,  in  anteriores  sedes  regem 
reduximus,  reliqua  ipsi  monstraturi.  Homines,  qni  spectatum 
confinxerant,  quonmi  ingens  erat  mnltitudo,  ex  ipso  regis,  me 
nonnunquam  paullo  longius,  prout  res  postnlabat,  disserentem 
patientissime  audientis,  et  hnmanissime  mecnm  in  pergula,  quae 
est  in  anteriorum  sedinm  tecto,  colloqnentis,  vnltu  et  gestibus 
augurati  fuerant,  non  fore  talem  huius  lustrationis  exitum,  qua- 
lem  quidem  ipsi  vel  exoptauerant  vel  metuerant.  Neque  illos 
augurium  fefellit :  Prsesidium  enim  Rex  snum,  et  priuilegiorum, 
quce  ab  eius  Parente  impetrata  ante  pedes  ipsius  deposueram, 
confirmationem  verbis  singularibus  pollicebatur,  eamque  paullo 
post,  quam  Berolinum  redierat,  nobis  cum  aliquo  eorum  aug- 
mento  impertiuit.  Quse  inexpectata  Regis  nostri  gratia,  cuius 
fama  mox  non  Germaniam  tantum,  sed  alias  quoque  Europse 
regiones  permeauit,  quantum  inimicis  et  osoribus  nostris  dolo- 
rem  attulerit,  quantse  autem  nobis  et  Deum  timentibus  omnibus 
Isetitiae  exstiterit,  facile  potueris,  Vir  maxime  Reuerende,  iudi- 
care.  In  primis  vero  hoc  ipsum  ad  laudandam  Dei  paternam 
prouidentiam  animos  nostros  mirum  quantum  excitauit.  Hsec 
enim  diuina  prouidentia  fuit  quse  defuncti  regis  prsesidium  his 
institutis  adversus  omnes  malorum  machinationes  conseruauit, 
et  nunc  potentissimi  filii  successoris  aninnnn  ad  ea  tiienda  flexit. 
Immo  vero  hsec  vna  fuit,  qua  confisi  prima  eorum  fundamenta 
iecimus,  et  quse  in  hunc  vsque  diem  sumtus  nobis  necessarios 
largita  est,  quos  et  inposterum  eam  largituram  esse  firmiter 
sumus  persuasi.  [There  follow  some  statements  about  the 
necessity  of  increased  funds  in  the  future.     Then  :] 

Hactenus  de  Orphanotropheo.  Restant  nonnuUa  instituta 
alia,  quse  quamuis  ad  illud  proprie  non  pertineant,  nostrse  tamen 
direction!  non  minus  subsunt :  de  quibus  nunc  paullo  strictius. 

Pcedagogium  Regiuin  (quo  nomine  schola  ilia,  quam  ditiorum 


Kuno  Francke.  47 

parentiim,  e.  g.  comitum,  baronum,  equitum,  mercatorum  alio- 
rumque  filii  frequentant,  ab  ipso  Rege  Fridcr-ico  insignita  fuit) 
initia  sua  ad  annum  superioris  seculi   nonagesinium  quintuni 
refert,  parua  admodum,  vt  cseteroruin    omnium,   sed  temporis 
successu  ita  adaucta,  vt  discipuli  nunc  sint  fere  centum,  plerique 
peregrini  et  exteri.     Hos  ipsos  moderantur  prseceptores  vndeui- 
ginti,   Inspector  vnus,   Hieronymiis   Freyerus^   qui    quibusdam 
varii  argumenti  scriptis  inclaruit.      [Remarks  on  Freyer's  writ- 
ings on  Terence.     Then  :]      Cseterum  hoc  Psedagogium  eadem 
fata  habuit,  quae  Schola  Latina  Orphanotrophei.     Alumni  vide- 
licet in  ciuium  Glauchensium  sedibus  dispersi  contubernia  habe- 
bant  et  auditoria,  in  quibus  instituebantur.     Augescente  autem 
discentium  numero  necessitas  nobis  imponebatur  in  eorum  vsum 
amplam  domum  sedificandi.     Anno  igitur  171 1.  in  horto  spati- 
oso,  post  Orphanotrophei  ternas  nouas  sedes,  quas  supra  descrip- 
simus,  proxime  sito,  et  ad  Orphanotropheum  spectante,  sedificium 
ab  occasu  ad   ortum   ducentos  sedecim  pedes  longum,  triginta 
quatuor  latum,  et  quinque  contignationes  altum,  exstructum  et 
anno  superiore,  1713.,  occupatum  est.     Ab  anteriore  parte,  quae 
ad  Orphanotropheum  vergit,   duas    habet    alas,  quarum    altera 
quinquaginta  duos  pedes  ad  meridiem,  altera  totidem  pedes  ad 
Septentrionem    se    extendit.       Istam    Inspector    cum    ministris 
famulantibus,  hanc  oeconomus  vnus  tenet.     A  parte  posteriore 
Orientem  versus  elapsa  sestate  ala  vna  eadem  longitudine  lateri 
septentrional!  addita  est,  quam  alter  oeconomus  nuperrime  occu- 
pauit.     Alteri    lateri   ad    meridiem   proxime  etiam,  si  Deo  ita 
placuerit,  alam  adiungemus,  quas  sedes  aegrotantium  vsui  destin- 
auimus,  qui  interea  in  ipsa  maiore  domo  certa  conclauia  habent. 
Ad  lectiones,  quae   in  hoc  Psedagogio  tractantur,  quod  attinet, 
prseter  eas,  quas  in  schola  Latina  Orphanotrophei  tradi  diximus, 
hie  quoque  docetur  lingua  Gallica,  Geometria,   Physica,  Meta- 
physica,   Ethica,  Politica,  Genealogia,  Botanica,  Anatomia,  As- 
tronomia,  et  alia.     Corporis  etiam  mouendi  et  animi  recreandi 
gratia  proxima  ante  prandium  hora  in  tornando,  vitris  polien- 
dis  aliisque  huiuscemodi  exercitiis  alumni  instituuntur.     Ouater 
etiam  per  annum,  perinde  ac  in  scholis  Orphanotrophei  fieri  con- 
sueuit,  lustratio  publica  habetur. 


48  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke. 

Quemadmodum  igitnr,  lit  meminimus,  in  hoc  Psedagogio  dit- 
iornm  parentiim  filii  erndiuntur,  ita  qiioqiie  pro  huius  generis 
filiabus  schola  qiiaedam  instituta  est,  qnam  Gynsecenni  appella- 
mus.  In  hoc  puellge  aliquot  parentum  snornm  snmtibus  in  cog- 
nitione  Dei,  Calligraphia,  Arithmetica,  lingna  Gallica,  aliisqne 
rebus,  istnm  sexnm  ornantibiis,  instituuntnr,  moderante  et 
inspectante  virgine  Gallica,  non  minus  pia,  quam  prudente. 
Hae  vero  puellse  ab  Orphanotropheo  et  Paedagogio  Regio  quam 
longissime  domicilio  sunt  remotse.  Huic  Instituto  affine  est 
aliquo  modo  aliud,  quod  itidem  in  sexus  sequioris  vsum  incepi- 
mus.  Aliquot  enim  abhinc  annis  honestissima  matrona,  quae 
pro  quibusdam  virginibus  adultioribus,  nobili  genere  natis,  cer- 
tam  fundationem,  vt  vocant,  facere  decreuerat  (quod  consilium 
etiam  post  pauUo  in  quadam  Saxoniae  ciuitate  perfecit)  suo  ipsius 
instinctu,  ad  nos  quoque  certam  pecuniae  summam  misit,  quam 
eumdem  in  finem  a  nobis  adhiberi  cupiebat.  Quod  cum  nos 
nouum  indicium,  quod  Deus  instituta  nostra  amplificatum  iret, 
interpretaremur,  isto  aere  commodam  huic  destinationi  donium 
emimus.  Interim  hoc  exemplo  alia  matrona  excitata  in  eumdem 
vsum  tantum  pecuniae  iam  moribunda  testamento  legauit,  quan- 
tum ad  vnius  virginis  sustentationem  requireretur.  Postea  etiam 
Minister  quidam  regius  itidem  non  mediocrem  nummorum  sum- 
mam donauit,  ex  quo  beneficio  tres  alumnae  potissimam  susten- 
tationis  suae  partem  habent.  Adsunt  praeterea  nonnuUae  aliae 
virgines  adultiores,  quae  suis  ipsarum  sumtibus  iisdem  in  aedibus 
viuunt.  Quas  inter  nonnumquam  tales  reperiimtur,  quae  quum 
vel  propter  Pontificiorum,  apud  quos  vixerunt,  vexationes,  vel 
ob  alia  impedimenta  pietatis  studio  domi  suae  ex  animi  sententia 
vacare  non  potuerint,  a  nobis  petierunt,  vt  sibi  hoc  loco  viuendi 
occasionem  procuraremus,  vt  ex  verbi  diuini  praedicatione,  quam 
per  Dei  gratiam  nossent  heic  esse  vberrimam,  animas  suas  aedifi- 
care  possent.  Praeter  publicam  autem,  quam  in  templo  Glau- 
chensi  et  Orphanotropheo  habent,  spiritualem  sui  aedificationem, 
duabus  per  hebdomadem  horis  priuatim  quoque  a  quodam  pio 
verbi  diuini  ministro  ex  sacris  litteris  instituuntnr.  Caeterum  a 
regulis  quasi  monasticis  omnibus  sunt  immunes,  et  sua  cuique 
libertas  relinquitur. 


Kiino  Fraiicke.  49 

Nee  prsetereunda  fuerint  duo  Cherotrophea^  in  qiiibus  aliquot 
pauperibus  viduis  a  duobus  patronis  partim  de  tota  sustentatione, 
partim  de  habitatione  prospectum  est,  et  a  nobis  de  piis,  ad 
animarum  suarum  sedificationem  facientibus,  exercitiis  prospi- 
citur. 

Hsec  sunt,  Vir  maxime  Reuerende,  instituta  nostra,  quorum 
vsus  ad  eos,  qui  hoc  ipso  loco  commorantur,  potissimum  spectant. 
Potissimuni  dico  :  nam  alios  quoque,  qui  quidem  lieic  non  degunt, 
istorum  vtilitatem  participare,  vel  ex  iis,  quae  supra  de  diuer- 
sorum  coUegiorum  ratione  narrauimus,  patet.  Non  desunt 
autem  Instituta  alia,  quae  in  eorum,  qui  hinc  vel  propius  vel 
longius  absunt,  emolumentum  proecipue  cedunt.  Vt  ab  externis 
iterum  exordiar,  beneficiorum,  quae  ex  Officina  pharmaceutical 
cuius  iam  ante  fecimus  mentionem,  innumeris  fere  segrotis 
diuinitus  obtigerunt,  amplitudinem  enarrare  non  sustineo.  Certe 
hac  in  caussa  Dei  prouidentia  et  benignitas  tam  mirabilis  fuit, 
quam  in  vlla  alia.  Dedit  ilia  ante  aliquot  annos  Orplianotroplieo 
nostro,  accedente  medicorum  nostrorum  opera,  qusedam  medica- 
menta,  quorum  efficacitas  primum  quidem  in  ipsis  institutis 
nostris,  deinde  vero  in  pluribus  Germanise  et  Europse  nostrse 
locis  prorsus  singularis  ac  mirifica  fuit  et  adliuc  est,  adeo,  vt 
nunc  in  remotissimas  terrse  partes  transmittantur.  Accedit,  quod 
non  tantum  Orplianotrophei  nostri  alumnis,  sed  pauperibus 
etiam  quibusuis  aliis  in  suburbio  nostro  et  vrbe  Hala,  quin  et 
alibi  locorum,  si  idoneo  paupertatis  testimonio  instructi  a  nobis 
expetierint,  gratuito  dari  iubeamus. 

Maiora  autem  beneficia  ea  sunt,  quae  per  Officinain  librariam 
quam  plurimis  hominibus  a  Deo  conferuntur.  Non  dicam  nunc 
de  tot  libris,  ad  studia  litteraria  iuuanda  lieic  excusis,  quippe 
quorum  vtilitas  externa  tantum  est,  sed  libet  nunc  eos,  qui  diui- 
nioris  argumenti  sunt,  panels  tantum  attingere.  Sunt  homines 
oppido  multi,  quos  librorum,  de  genuina  veri  Christianismi 
ratione  agentium,  qui  Orplianotrophei  sumtibus  editi  sunt,  lec- 
tione  in  meliorem  viam  reductos,  vel  in  eadem  non  mediocriter 
confirmatos  esse,  resciuimus.  Cuiusmodi  exempla  ex  ipsa  remo- 
tissima  Siberia  Suecorum,  qui  ibi  captiui  tenentur,  ad  nos  datis 


50  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermanii  Francke. 

litteris  non  sine  ingenti  laetitia  nobis  non  ita  pridem  innotuere. 
Non  ingratum  Tibi  fuerit,  credo,  hac  de  re  nonnnlla  a  me  nar- 
rari  accuratius.  Anno  1706.  Sueci,  circumlatis  in  Polonia  vici- 
nisque  regionibus  aliquot  annos  armis  victricibus,  in  Saxonia, 
irruptione  facta,  per  integrum  fere  annum  substiterunt,  ipso  qui- 
dem  Rege  in  vico,  aliquot  horarum  spatium  ab  vrbe  Hala  dissito, 
commorante.  E  Saxonia  deinceps  in  Poloniam  reuersi  IMosco- 
uiam,  Rege  prseeunte,  adire  eique  arma  inferre  moliti  sunt.  In 
extremis  autem  Ukranise  finibus  ad  oppidum  Pultaivam  castris 
suis  positis  omnium  rerum  inopia  afllicti  cum  Magni  Ducis  Mos- 
couiae  copiis,  undique  circumfusis,  prselium  committere  necesse 
habuerunt.  Quo  in  praelio  paucis  utrinque  csesis  Suecorum  cas- 
tra  vniuersa  et  copiae  plerseque  in  Russorum  venere  potestatem. 
Accidit  hoc  Suecorum  stupendum  infortunium  anno  1709. 
mense  Jimio.  Rex  cum  paucissimis  suorum  fuga  salutem  diffi- 
culter  admodum  adeptus  in  ditionem  Turcarum  se  recepit, 
ibique  integrum  lustrum,  et  quod  excurrit,  commoratus  nouis- 
sime  elapsi  Nouembris  die  22.  in  Pomeraniam  rediit,  Cseterum 
captis  in  dicto  praelio  Suecis  in  Moscouiam  commigrandum  fuit. 
Alii  in  Moscoiiia  relicti,  alii  in  regnum  Casauum^  alii  in  ipsam 
Siheriam  missi,  et  vbique  in  summam  miseriam  et  egestatem 
redacti  sunt.  Heic  multis  illorum  ex  diuina  misericordia  vsu 
venit,  quod  Isaise  cap.  26  legimus  :  Domine^  in  angiistia  visitau- 
eruut  ie^  cffiiderunt  ymissitatiojieni^  aim.  correctio  tiia  appropin- 
qiiaiiit  CIS.  Qua  de  re  prseter  omnem  opinionem  nostram  ex 
Siberise  metropoli  Tobolio  (vulgo  Tobolsko)  anno  17 13.  mense 
Junio  epistola  a  nouem  partim  centurionibus,  partim  subcentu- 
rionibus  et  signiferis,  suo  et  reliquorum  nomine  ad  nos  scripta, 
multa  narrat,  ex  quibus  sequentia  tantum,  ex  Germanico  Latine 
reddita,  liuic  relationi  inserere  visum  est:  "  Postquam  misericors 
Deus  pro  inenarrabili  ,aaz^(>'Vy//.:'a  et  salutis  hominum  cupiditate, 
nos  hue  captiuos  abduci  passus,  et  aliquam  animorum  nostrorum 
csecitatis  agnitionem  nobis  largitus  est,  summopere  mirati  sumus, 
quomodo  praeteritis  temporibus  ad  mundi  exemplum  in  diem 
securi  viuentes,  collocata  in  Christi  merito  fiducia,  de  diuina 
gratia  nobis  ipsis   persuadere   potuerimus,  ita   quidem,  vt  vel 


Kuno  Francke.  51 

ipsam  mortem  oppetere  non  diibitassemus.  Hanc  vero  miseriae 
nostrse  agnitionem  viuida  Christi  virtute,  cuius  antea  plane 
ignari,  saltem  expertes  fuimus,  consecuti  vbi  diuinam  gratiam 
imis  suspiriis  anhelare  coepimus,  amantissimi  Patris  nostri  proui- 
dentia  factum  est,  vt  vnum  alterumque  scriptum  ex  iis,  quae 
apud  vos  in  lucem  edita  sunt,  in  manus  nostras  peruenerit,"  etc. 
[There  follow  some  statements  about  books  printed  at  the 
Waisenhaus:  e.  g.,  Arnd's  Libri  de  vero  Chris tianismo^  the  Sla- 
vic, Greek  and  Latin  Bibles,  and  particularly  about  the  type- 
setting, the  small  cost,  and  the  wide  circulation  of  the  German, 
so  called  Canstein  Bible.  Then:]  Non  dubito,  Vir  maxime 
Reuerende,  quin  hanc  rem  maximopere  sis  admiraturus,  quando- 
quidem  permulti  in  ipsa  Germania  nostra  earn  non  satis  mirari 
queunt.  Prodierunt  quidem  per  quatuor  vel  quinque  lustra, 
postquam  Deus  singularem  cognitionis  suae  lucem  in  his  terris 
denuo  exoriri  iussit,  tot  integrorum  Bibliorum  Germanicorum, 
separatim  quoque  noui  testamenti,  exempla,  quot  per  omnes  a 
Reformatione  annos  vix  prodiisse  adfirmauerim;  tam  vili  autem 
pretio  vlla  vmquam  setate  vendita  esse,  quo  nunc  quidem  ven- 
duntur,  nemo  vel  audire  vel  legere  meminerit.  Vnde  vel  pau- 
perrimus  seruus  et  ancilla,  si  non  integra  Biblia,  nouum  tamen 
testamentum  comparare  sibi  possunt;  vt  adeo  hoc  institutum  ad 
cognitionem  Dei  inter  Germanos  nostros  promouendam  quam 
accommodatissimum  merito  habeatur. 

[There  follow  fourteen  pages  on  similar  philanthropic  under- 
takings in  Germany  and  on  the  missions  in  India.  Then:]  Viuis, 
Vir  maxime  Reuerende,  in  America,  ipsa  paganis,  extra  Ecclesiae 
Christi  communionem  constitutis,  abundantissima.  Feceris  igitur 
dictis  Missionariis  rem  gratissimam,  si  inito  cum  ipsis  litterarum 
commercio  de  institutis,  quae  ad  conuertendos  Americanos  ves- 
tros  inter  Vos  obtinent,  illis  scripseris.  Quo  in  commercio  Boeh- 
miiis  noster  et  Tibi  et  illis  libentissime  commodabit.  De  istis 
institutis  autem,  vt  et  nos  prima  quaque  occasione  facias  certiores, 
etiam  atque  etiam  abs  Te  peto.  Habemus  epistolam  cuiusdam 
Crescent  a  Matheri^  Tui,  vt  credo,  agnati,  Bostona  die  12.  Julii 
anno  1687.  ad  Joannem  Leusdenum,  Philologum  olim  Vltraiecti 


52  Cotto7i  Mather  mid  August  Uermantt  Francke, 

in  Belgio  celeberrimnm,  scriptam,  ab  Laurentio  quodam,  amico 
nostro,  Germanice  versam,  in  qua  de  cuiusdam  Joannis  Ellioti 
(quern  non  immerito  Americanorum  Apostolum  dici  affirmat) 
studiis  ad  conuertendos  Ethnicos,  deque  quibusdam  coetibus,  ad 
Christianam  religionem  perductis,  nonnuUa  cum  voluptate  legi- 
mus.  Quorum  statum  hodiernum  cognoscere  in  primis  aueo. 
Fortassis  Tu  ipse,  Vir  maxime  Reuerende,  alicuius  coetus  ex 
gentibus  Americanis  coUecti,  Pastor  es,  adeoque  eo  melius  hac 
in  re  nobis  gratificari  poteris.  Non  ingrata  tamen  nobis  erunt, 
quaecunque  de  Anglicanis  etiam  Ecclesiis,  natione  talibus,  sub- 
iungere  Tibi  placuerit. 

Finirem  hie  narrationem  meam,  nisi  de  Academise  nostrae  statu 
qusedam  te  ex  me  scire  velle  videreris:  de  quo  igitur  pauca  sub- 
iungam.  Ad  Juris  Consultorum  quidem,  Medicorum  et  Philoso- 
phorum,  ordines  quod  attinet,  non  video,  quae  de  istis  Theologo 
Tibi  ego  Theologus  scribam.  De  tota  Academia  generatim 
monuisse  suffecerit,  quod  omnium  in  Germania  hoc  tempore  a 
multis  liabeatur  florentissima.  In  ordine  Theologico  mecum 
quatuor  alii  Professores  sunt:  D.  Joachinius  Justus  Breithauptus^ 
Abbas  simul  coenobii  Bergensis,  quod  est  prope  Magdeburgum; 
D.  Pauhcs  Antonius^  Joannes  Heinricus  Michaclis  et  Joachimus 
Langius.  Nos  omnes  per  diuinam  gratiam  coniunctissime  viui- 
mus,  et  pro  suo  quisque  gratiae  modo  opus  Domini  serio  tracta- 
mus.  Auditores  nostros  non  tantum  doctos  effingere,  sed  etiam 
vere  pios  reddere,  adeoque  Ecclesise  Christi  tales  Ministros  prae- 
parare  conamur,  qui  verbum  veritatis  recte  secare  possint,  nee 
voce  tantum,  verum  exemplo  etiam  suo  greges  suos  doceant. 
Qua  in  destinatione  etsi  adhuc  variis  improborum  vexationibus 
expositi  fuimus,  Deus  tamen  et  patientiam  et  victoriam  semper 
nobis  concessit,  quam  et  in  posterum  concessurum  esse  confi- 
dimus. 

Quod  reliquum  est,  pro  donis,  quae  Orphanotropheo  nostro  bis 
separatis  temporibus  misisti  (quorum  priora  quidem,  vt  initio  dixi, 
nescio  quo  casu,  non  allata  sunt)  Tibi,  vir  maxime  Reuerende, 
gratias  ex  animo  ago  et  hunc  adiunctum  programmatum  a  me 
editorum  fasciculum,  tamquam  grati  animi  qualemcumque  tes- 


Kiino  Francke.  53 

tern,  mitto.  Persuasum  tibi  habeas  velim,  me  ex  eo  tempore, 
quo  nobis  per  litteras  innotuisti,  creberrimam  Tui  in  precibus  ad 
Deum  fecisse  mentionem,  nee  vmquam  eam  facere  destiturum 
esse.  Quod  mutuum  amoris  Christiani  officium,  vt  et  mihi, 
collegisque  meis,  prout  liberalissime  promisisti,  porro  praestes, 
etiam  atque  etiam  rogo  atque  obtestor.  Ita  futurum  esse  credo, 
vt  licet  locorum  interuallo  disiunctissimi  simus,  animi  tamen 
nostri  in  Deo  in  dies  magis  magisque  coniungantur,  vt  tandem 
in  coelesti  patria  ad  gloriam  Dei  et  salutem  nostram  sempiter- 
nam  de  facie  etiam  invicem  nos  pernoscamus.  Ita  faxit  Deus 
propter  Christum  filium  suum,  communem  nostrum  sospitatorem! 
Amen.  Vale!  Collegse  mei  pauUo  ante  nominati  nee  non  duo 
isti,  quos  in  Pastoratu  habeo,  Freylinghusiiis  et  Wieglebius^  salu- 
tem tibi  impertiunt.  Datse  ad  d.  19.  Dec.  17 14.  Hala  Saxo- 
num. 


54  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Herma^in  Francke. 

11. 

Nuncia  Bona 

e  Terra  Longincjua. 

A  Brief  Account 

OF   SOME 

Good  &  Great  Things 

A    DOING 

For  the  Kingdom  of  GOD 
In  the  Midst  of 

EUROPE 

Communicated  in  a  Letter  to 


FROM 

Cotton  Mather,  D.D.  &  F.R.S. 


BOSTON  in  New  England: 

Printed  by  B.  Green,  for  Samuel  Gerrish,  at  his 

Shop  on  the  North  side  of  the  Town-House 


1715 


Kitno  Fraiicke.  55 

[i] 
Sir. 

Such  is  the  Candor  to  be  found  in  Persons  of  a  Superiour 
Character  on  the  other  side  of  the  wide  Atlantick,  that  they  will 
admit  us  Obscure  Americans  into  Coi^respondejtcies  with  them  ; 
from  which  our  Informations  of  such  Things,  as  are  most  worthy 
to  be  Known,  and  perhaps  also  our  Opportunities  to  do  Good  in 
the  World,  may  be  very  much  befriended,  and  enlarged. 

One  as  Worthy  of  Obscurity,  as  any  of  them,  that  ly  hid  a 
thousand  Leagues  to  the  Westward  of  Thyle^  has  had  so  much 
Experience  of  this  Candor^  that  he  cannot  forbear  imparting 
some  effects  of  it,  unto  a  Person,  in  whom  I  am  sure  to  find  it 
again  exemplifyed. 

It  were  to  be  wished,  that  Persons  of  more  Liesure  and  more 
Merit  might  carry  on  such  Correspondencies ;  but  that  those, 
which  are  Maintained  may  not  be  useless  to  my  Country,  and 
that  Others  of  more  significancy  may  be  excited,  I  am  willing 
to  Communicate  at  this  Time  unto  a  Friend  who  may  be  curious 
of  such  Matters,  and  will  further  Extend  the  Communication  of 
them,  a  few  of  the  Curiosities,  which  One  of  them  has  afforded 
me. 

By  the  Mediation  of  that  Excellent  Person  Mr.  Antony  William 
Boehm^  late  Chaplain  to  Our  Prince  George  of  Denmark^  One 
of  Your  Country-Men,  hath  been  lately  honoured  with  very 
Copious  Letters  from  that  Admirable  and  Illustrious  Person,  the 
Professor  Franckius  and  his  Collegues,  at  Hall  in  the  Lower 
Saxony ;  which  enable  him  to  give  You  the  Refreshment  of 
Good  Neivs  from  a  far  Country. 

[2]  Dr.  Franckius  is  a  Person  truly  Wonderful  for  his  vast 
Erudition ;  but  much  more  so  for  his  most  shining  Piety ;  and 
yet  more  so  for  his  most  peerless  hidustry ;  and  most  of  all  so, 
for  the  Astonishing  Blessing  of  God  upon  his  Undertakings  to 
advance  His  Kingdom  in  the  World. 

Were  there  any  Hazard  of  his  having  a  Sight  of  the  Letter, 
wherein  I  do  this  Justice  to  him,  I  might  fear  my  Venerable 
Friend  who  for  ever  breathes  nothing  but  the  deepest  Annihila- 


56  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke. 

tions  of  himself,  would  with  Displeasure  call  to  me,  Ignem 
au/erto.  But  I  caunot  suppose  any  Copy  of  this  Paper  ever 
will  reach  unto  him. 

Of  this  Great  Man,  who  yet  lies  for  ever  in  the  Lowest 
Humility^  and  will  know  nothing  but  Self-abasements^  a  Gentle- 
man Writes  me  this  brief  and  just  Account :  "  Professor  Franck 
is  the  Wonder  of  Europe  for  the  vast  Projects  he  has  laid  for 
Religion  and  Learning,  and  his  Success  in  Executing  of  them. 
Whoever  considers  what  he  has  done  in  the  Compass  of  about 
Thirty  Years  past,  would  compute  it  to  be  the  Labour  of  One 
Hundred  a7id  Fifty  Years^  under  a  Succession  of  as  able  Men, 
as  himself.  He  has  such  an  art  in  recommending  his  Great 
Designs,  that  there  is  scarce  a  Protestant  Prince  in  Europe^  that 
is  not,  as  it  were  Tributary  to  him  ;  and  some  even  of  the  Romish 
Princes  have  been  allured  by  his  Charitable  charms." 

That  which  lies  at  the  bottom  of  all  this  Great  Man's  Designs, 
is,  to  advance  True^  Real^  Vital  Piety ;  and  such  a  Knoivledge 
of  a  Glorious  Christ,  as  will  bring  the  Children  of  Men  into  the 
Service  of  their  only  Saviour,  and  such  a  Love  of  God,  and  of 
their  Neighbour,  as  the  Gospel  calleth  for :  or  in  a  word.  Right 
Christianity^  and  a  Glorious  Revival  of  the  Primitive. 

In  Pursuance  of  this  Intention,  all  the  World  has  [3]  read  the 
amazing  Story,  how  without  any  Fund,  but  a  Pure  Dependence 
on  the  Providence  of  God  our  Saviour  to  carry  him  thro'  his 
Undertaking,  he  first  of  all  began  to  commit  a  few  Poor  Ignorajits 
unto  a  Pious  Tuition.  His  Intention  being  divulged,  God  stirred 
up  the  Hearts  of  Good  Men,  both  near  at  hand,  and  further  off 
to  send  in  their  Bounties  to  him  ;  and  such  Occasional  Bounties 
anon  enabled  him  to  build  a  Capacious  Orphan-House^  wherein 
he  has  now  lodg'd,  fed,  and  cloathed  a  Multitude  of  Poor  Children  ; 
and  by  Tutors  flaming  with  Excellent  Piety ^  bestowed  a  Religious 
Educatio7i  upon  them,  till  they  are  sent  forth  to  proper  E^nploy- 
ments^  or  the  riper  Witts  among  them  set  a  part  for  the  U7tiver. 
sity.  The  Number  of  Persons  thus  nourished  in  this  Orphano- 
Tropheum  at  this  time  is  near  Five  HiDidred^  and  it  has  been 
subsisted  for  above  Twenty  Years  by  an  amazing  Providence  of 


Kuno  Francke.  57 

Heaven,  sending  in  Supplies  unto  them  from  the  Charity  of 
Well-disposed  Persons,  in  many  parts  of  Europe^  and  such  as 
are  hundreds  of  Miles  distant  from  them  ;  Yea,  and  it  may  be 
from  Amej'ica  too.  They  have  often  been  brought  to  the  last 
Meal  in  the  Barrel^  and  the  Faith  of  this  Great  Man  has  had 
many  and  marvellous  Trials ;  but  they  never  once  wanted  any 
Thing,  that  was  needful  for  them.  They  have  liv'd  and  still  do 
so,  like  the  Israelites  on  the  Manna  rained  from  Heaven  upon 
them  in  the  Wilderness.  The  Grand  Maxim  of  this  faithful 
Man,  is,  Rectiiis  ad  Patreni^  qiiani  ad  Fratres :  Better  depend 
upon  God  than  upon  our  Friends.  And  God  countenances  him 
in  it,  with  such  Displayes  of  his  Providence,  as  no  Age  since 
that  of  Man^s  eating  the  Food  of  Angels  has  ever  Parrallel'd. 
The  Pen  of  this  Excellent  Person  has  given  a  Description  of 
their  Condition,  than  which  there  cannot  be  a  more  lively  one ; 
From  Week  to  Week^  fro7n  Month  to  Month^  the  Crnmbs  of  his 
Cojisolation  have  dropt  down  and  [4]  fed  our  Poor^  as  one  feedeth 
a  Brood  of  tender  Chickens.  Among  other  Efforts  of  his  Tried 
Faith.,  one  that  he  very  Publickly  uttered  some  Years  ago,  was, 
The  Lord  will  rather  Excite  some  good  Souls  from  beyond  Sea^ 
to  assist  2is,  than  let  ns  suffer  any  Want ;  wdiich  when  he  hath 
seen  accomplished,  it  has  wondrously  comforted  him.  Indeed 
the  well-attested  Story  of  the  Wayes,  and  the  Times^  wherein 
their  Supplies  have  arrived  unto  them,  fills  Good  Men  with  the 
Praises  of  God,  and  all  Men  with  JFonders  at  the  Foot-steps  of 
his  Providence  among  the  Children  of  Men.  It  has  had  several 
Editions  and  Siipplements^  which  I  sometimes  wish  our  People 
could  see  Epitomized. 

But  in  such  Holy  Designs,  One  Thing  draws  on  another  ;  they 
gain  Strength  in  the  Way  of  God ;  and  where  the  Beginning 
is  but  Small ^  the  Latter  End  will  greatly  Increase. 

This  Great  Man  has  gone  on  to  the  Erecting  of  Schools.,  wherein 
the  main  Thing,  that  is  taught,  is  Pnre  Religion.,  and  Undefiled  ; 
but  then  all  sorts  of  Good  Literature  accompany  it.  The  Germait 
School  has  One  Thousand,  and  Six  Hundred  Scholars  in  it ; 
thirty  two  Classes,  and  Eighty  Six  Tutors.     The  Latin.,  Greek., 


58  Cotton  Mather  and  Angnst  Hermann  Francke. 

and  Hebreiv  School^  has  Fourteen  Classes,  and  Twenty  Six 
Tutors,  and  above  Three  hundred  Scholars.  Vast  numbers  of 
Poor  Children,  besides  those  of  the  Orphan-Honse^  are  taught 
here  for  nothing  ;  They  that  are  able,  pay  a  small  Didactriun  ; 
at  the  most,  but  about  four  and  twenty  Shillings  a  Year,  of  our 
Money. 

The  Education  in  these  Wonderful  Schools  is  all  filled  with 
such  a  Strain  of  Piety^  &  the  Tutors  keep  up  their  Discipline 
with  such  a  Paternal  Tenderness  and  Clemency^  &  yet  such  an 
effectual  Cogency,  that — What  would  one  give  to  see  all  our 
Schools  carried  on  by  the  Rules,  which  the  Pletas  Hallensis  has 
exemplifyed ! 

[5]  Colleges  have  been  formed  on  these  Occasions  ;  and  an 
University  flourishing,  which  in  Gratitude  for  the  Benign  Aspect, 
which  the  late  King  of  Prussia  cast  upon  it,  is  called  The  Frider- 
ician  University.  The  University  is  under  the  Government  of 
Five  Professors,  Dr.  Franckius^  Dr.  Breithaiipt.,  Dr.  Antonins^ 
Dr.  Michaelis^  and  Dr.  Langius  ;  ^  and  it  is  one  of  the  most  flour- 
ishing in  the  World,  having  in  it  more  than  Three  Thousand  of 
Students,  resorting  from  all  Parts  of  Europe  unto  it.  Here  still 
PIETY  is  the  main  Concern  ;  and  the  Students  are  not  sent 
forth  with  Testimonials,  until  it  appear,  by  lively  Symptoms  upon 
them,  that  they  know  what  it  is  to  Live  unto  God^  and  by  the 
Faith  of  the  Son  of  God^  and  hate  all  Sin.,  and  sleight  this  World 
and  are  diligent  Redeemers  of  Time  and  have  a  Soul  Reconciled 
unto  Low,  and  Mean  Circumstances  here,  and  an  Heart  set  upon 
the  Doing  of  Good.,  and  willing  to  be  at  any  Pains  for  it,  and 
have  nothing  so  much  at  Heart,  as  to  Serve  the  Kingdom  of  God 
171  the  World. 

It  would  be  a  long  Work  to  relate  the  number  and  the  Figure 
of  the  Edifices.,  which  this  Great  Man  has  Erected  for  the  Accom- 
modation of  his  Religious,  and  Excellent  Purposes ;  and  all 
with  very  few  assistences,  but  what  the  amazing  Hand  of  Heaven 


^  This  is  a  garbled  version  of  Francke's  statements  about  the  composition  of 
the  theological  Faculty,  see  Latin  above. 


Kiino  Franc ke.  59 

has  given  him,  at  the  very  Momejtts^  when  the  Occasions  arrived 
for  them. 

Each  of  the  Schools  have  a  Pious  Minister  for  their  Inspector^ 
attended  with  some  Senior  Masters. 

Four  Times  a  Year,  there  are  Lustrations  of  the  Schools ;  all 
the  Tutors,  with  the  Scholars,  assembling  in  the  huge  Aiiditory 
of  the  Orphano-Tropheum.  Sermons  are  then  Preached  by  this 
Incomparable  Doctor ;  and  obliging  Presents  of  Little  Books^ 
and  other  agreeable  Things  are  bestowed  on  the  Children. 

On  other  Dayes,  the  Masters  &  the  Tutors  assemble  to  hear 
the  Doctors  Lively  Exhortation. 

[6]  He  has  built  a  Mighty  Dining  Room^  where  hundreds  of 
Poor  Students  have  an  agreeable  Table  furnished  for  them  ;  and 
these  to  express  their  Gratitude,  are  to  spend  a  Couple  of  Hours 
every  Day,  in  teaching  some  Good  Things  unto  the  Children, 
or  in  transcribing  such  Things,  as  may  be  assigned  for  them  ; 
wherein  the  Teachers^  as  well  as  the  Learners^  find  incredible 
advantage. 

There  is  a  Nosocomium^  which  is  an  Hospital  for  the  Sick^ 
where  they  are  well  provided  for,  and  visited  every  Day.  Here 
Lodges  a  Veterane  Student  in  Theology^  who  every  Day  goes  to 
the  Sick,  with  his  best  Endeavours  for  their  Spiritual  Advantage, 
and  also  Notes  down  what  he  finds  Observable,  and  Memorable 
among  them. 

Here  is  a  Padagogium  (sic)  Regiuni^  in  which  the  Sons  of 
Men  of  Quality  are  Educated.  It  has  in  it  about  One  Hundred 
Scholars,  (most  of  them  Strangers)  Nineteen  Tutors;  «S:  the 
Famous  Freyerus  is  their  Inspector. 

There  is  a  Gynaecium^  for  Young  Gentlewomen^  who  are 
Taught  at  the  Expence  of  their  Parents,  first  those  Things, 
which  to  know  is  Life  Eternal :  then  :  Writing,  Arithmetick  and 
something  of  the  Living  Languages.  Their  Tutoress  is  One  of 
the  best  of  Women. 

There  is  another  Edifice  for  the  Reception  of  Indigent  Young 
Wonien^  especially  such  as  fly  from  the  Popish  Persecutions. 


6o  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke. 

There  are  also  two  Cherotrophea^  where  Poor  Widoivs  are 
supported. 

Among  other  more  singular  Things,  there  is  an,  Engla^idishe 
Haus^  that  is,  an  English  Hoiise^  in  which  there  are  a  Number 
of  English  Scholars^  whose  work  it  is  to  translate,  either  out  of, 
or  into  the  English  Tongue,  agreeable  Books  of  Piety.  And  a. 
Collegium  Orientate  Theologictun^  where  a  Number,  &  some 
Greek  Youths  among  them,  Study  the  Ojnental  Toftgues^  that  so 
there  may  be  [7]  notable  Things  done  for  the  Promoting  of 
Piety^  in  the  more  Eastern  World.  But  that  which  particularly 
pleases  me,  is  a  Praeceptorum  Seminarium^  or  a  Nursery  for 
Tutors;  in  which,  they  that  are  peculiarly  designed  for  the 
Tuitioji  of  Others  do  spend  a  couple  of  years,  that  they  may 
become  furnished  with  the  Skilly  &  Grace  requisite  unto  a  most 
useful  Discharge  of  that  Employment.  A  Seminary  wondrously 
prospered  of  God !  From  whence  there  have  gone  forth  most 
Accomplished  Tutors,  not  only  for  the  Franckian  Schools,  but 
also  for  many  beyond  the  utmost  Bounds  of  Germany.  Men  of 
Quality  every  where  desire  to  have  such  Tutors  in  their  Families, 
and  become  their  grateful  Patrotis.  There  is  likewise  a  Semi- 
nary of  Catechisers  ;  and  for  such  Candidates  of  the  Ministry,  as 
Poverty  would  else  force  away  from  their  Studies,  too  early  and 
unprepared. 

The  Blessings  of  God  our  Saviour  upon  these  essays  of  this 
Great  Man  are  altogether  Astonishing. 

The  Vast  Number  of  Souls  brought  Home  to  God  and  made 

Instances  of  Serious  Piety  ! The  Vast  Number  of  Instru- 

ments  qualified  here  to  do  good  abroad  in  the  World  !  More 
than  all  Europe  will  soon  feel,  yea,  has  already  felt  the  precious 
Effects  of  the  Franckian  Education. 

There  is  an  Officina  Pharmaceutica  belonging  to  the  Orphan- 
House.  God  has  put  it  into  the  Hearts  of  Eminent  Physicians 
to  send  in  their  Arcana  thither ;  so  that  the  Noblest  Remedies 
upon  Earth  are  known  there,  and  Wonders  have  been  done  from 
thence  among  the  Miserable  :  Many  Polychresta  Published  ! 

There  the  Printing  Presses  have  brought  forth  Books  which 


Ku7io  Francke.  6i 

have  had  an  incredible  Efficacy  for  the  Producing  of  Piety  even 
in  far  distant  Countrys.  The  Warmth  of  them  has  reached  as 
far  off,  as  even  Siberia  itself,  from  whence  there  have  come  Letters 
to  the  Doctor  fill'd  with  the  Praises  of  God  for  the  Good  [8] 
which  his  Books  have  done  to  Souls,  by  Szvedes  carried  into  those 
remote  Regions ;  Copies  whereof  he  has  done  me  the  honour  of 
imparting  to  me. 

But  what  appears  to  me  particularly  entertaining,  is,  the 
Uncommon,  and  Successful  Care  taken  by  this  Man  of  God^ 
for  dispersing  the  Book  of  God^  &  procuring  the  Waters  of  Life 
to  run  into  all  Parts  of  the  Earth. 

Besides  Editions  of  the  Sacred  Scriptures  in  the  Sclavonic 
Tongue^  for  the  Use  especially  of  the  Poor  Bohemians^  and 
Hungarians ;  He  has  ordered  several  Editions  of  the  New 
Testament  \n  the  Vulgar  Greek;  wherein  there  is  the  Romaic 
(as  'tis  called)  on  the  one  side,  and  the  Authentic  on  the  other, 
as  a  Present  unto  the  Poor  Greek  Churches  under  the  Mahometan 
Oppressions. 

But  then  for  Gertnany^  behold  what  has  been  done !  He 
entered  into  a  consultation  with  a  Person  of  Quality,  Named 
Cansteinius^  who  favoured  his  Design  ;  the  Effect  whereof  was, 
that  by  the  year  17 12.  they  had  first  the  New  Testa7nent^  with 
the  Psalter^  and  then  the  whole  Bible^  all  standing  at  once  in 
Forms  ready  Composed,  and  so  capable  of  being  Printed  off,  that 
thereby,  and  some  other  Forecast  they  have  brought  the  richest 
of  Treasures  to  so  Low  a  Price,  that  a  New  Testatnent  with  a 
Psalter  is  to  be  sold  for  two  of  those  Groshens^  which  are  the 
Sixty  Third  Part  of  an  English  Pound  Sterling ;  and  a  Bible  in 
Duodecimo  is  to  be  Sold  for  One  and  twenty  of  those  Misnian 
Groshens^  whereof  there  are  an  hundred  &  twenty  Six  in  an 
English  Pound  ;  &  a  Bible  in  Octavo  for  Thirteen.  Of  A'eiv 
Testaments  in  a  few  Months  Eight  &  Thirty  Thousand  were 
disposed  of  ;  and  of  whole  Bibles^  Fifteen  Thousand.  Within  a 
few  Years,  and  since  the  light  of  Evangelical  Piety  thus  breaking 
forth  in  the  Heart  of  Germany^  there  have  been  more  Volumns 
of  the  Scriptures  vended,  than  in  the  whole  Period  of  the  Time 


62  Cotton  Mather  and  August  Hermann  Francke. 

from  the  Reformation  until  Now  ;  and  never  were  they  so  cheap 
since  the  World  [9]  bej^an.  The  Servant  of  God  concludes  this 
Paragraph  of  his  Relation,  with  these  Words/  Non  dubito^  Vir 
— ,  quin  hanc  Rem  maximopere  sis  admiraturus  ;  quandoqtiidem 
permuiti  in  ipsa  Germania  nostra  earn  non  satis  mirari  queunt. 

This  glorius  Example  has  awakened  the  like  Zeal  for  the 
Scattering  of  Bibles  about  the  World,  in  some  other  places. 

The  World  begins  to  feel  a  Warmth  from  the  Fire  of  God^ 
which  thus  flames  in  the  Heart  of  Germany^  beginning  to  extend 
into  many  Regions  ;  the  whole  World  will  e're  long  be  sensible 
of  it! 

It  has  reach'd  unto  the  East  Indies.  The  Gospel  of  the 
Blessed  God  has  been  carried  even  unto  the  Coasts  of  Malabar 
by  Missionaries  not  unworthy  to  be  numbred  with  the  best  of 
Men ;  but  of  the  Franckian  Education  &  Disposition  ;  &  the 
Progress,  that  has  been  made  there  cannot  be  read  without 
Praises  to  the  Glorious  God,  who  has  given  such  Grace  to  the 
Children  of  Men. 

But  how  grateful  must  it  be,  for  any  of  us  Americans^  to  be 
on  this  Glorious  Occasion  so  called  upon  ;  ^  Feceris  dictis  Mission- 
ariis  Rem  gj'atissimam.,  inito  cum  ipsis  Literariim  Commercio  ! 

These  Performances,  notwithstanding  the  evident  Sanctity^  & 
laudable  Teiidency  of  them,  have  encountred  with  Enemies  & 
Obloquies.  And  indeed  while  what  we  have  in  the  Third  Chap- 
ter of  Genesis  is  where  it  is,  or  while  a  Lifeless  Religion.^  with 
a  Dread  of  all  Disturbance  given  to  it,  so  much  suits  the  corrupt 
Nature  of  Man,  we  must  not  wonder  at  it.  But  these  Long- 
suffering  Children  of  God  have  born  all  the  Malignity  with 
Patience  ;  tho'  sometimes  they  have  been  forced  into  the  soft 
Anszvers^  which  they  have  given  in  their  Published  Apologies^ 
whereof  the  Recompence  has  been  a  vast  Accession,  first  unto 
their  Esteem  in  the  World,  and  then  unto  the  Number  of  such, 
as  have  repaired  from  all  Parts  unto  them. 

[10]  On  the  Death  of  the  late  king  of  Prussia.,  who  had 
favoured  them  with  Ample  Privileges.,  their  Adversaries  made 


'  See  Latin  above. 


Ktino  Francke.  63 

ill  Impressions  on  the  Mind  of  the  Nezv  King,  and  began  to 
hope  &  boast,  that  these  proceedings  would  meet  with  the 
Marks  of  his  Disaffection  to-  them.  The  New  King  lately 
making  a  Progress  into  that  Neighbourhood,  he  bestowed  a 
Visit  upon  these  Hospitals,  and  Colleges  of  Piety  ;  attended  by 
the  Prince  of  Anhalt,  and  the  President  of  the  City,  and  a  Pro- 
digious Confluence  of  Spectators.  The  Excellent  Servant  of 
God  waited  upon  him,  and  gave  him  Opportunity  of  taking  a 
full  view  of  their  Circumstances,  and  their  Operations,  and  most 
Submissively  laid  at  his  feet,  the  Charters,  which  he  had 
received  from  his  Royal  Father.  The  King  held  large  Confer- 
ences with  the  Doctor,  and  admitted  him  Several  Times  to  extend 
his  Discourses  unto  such  Dimensions,  as  gave  the  raised  Expec- 
tations of  both  Friends  and  Foes  in  the  vast  Crouds  of  Lookers- 
on,  a  Pretty  certain  Presage  of  the  Issue  ;  which  was.  That  his 
Majesty  declared  himself  to  be  fully  cured  of  all  the  Prejudices, 
he  had  begun  to  entertain  concerning  them,  and  that  he  was 
highly  satisfyed  in  their  Proceedings,  and,  restoring  their  Chai'-- 
ters,  he  told  the  Doctor,  he  would  make  an  ample  Additio7i  to 
the  Privileges,  his  Father  had  conferred  upon  them.  The 
Doctor  particularly  remarks  to  me  on  this  Occasion,  That  the 
King  took  a  very  particular  Notice  of  the  English  Youths, 
which  were  among  those,  that  now  appeared  before  him,  and 
most  graciously  Spoke  unto  them.  I  cannot  well  forbear  the 
Emphatical  Words,  with  which  the  Doctor  finishes  his  Relation 
of  what  occurr'd  in  this  Interview.^  Quae  inexspectata  Regis 
nostri  Gratia,  cujus  Fajua  mox  non  Germaniam  tantum,  sed  alias 
quoque  Regiones  permeavit,  quantimt  Iiiimicis,  &  Osoribiis  nos- 
tris  Doloreni  attulerit ;  quantae  autem  Nobis,  &  Deum  Timen- 
tihus  omnibus  Laetitiae  constiterit,  facile  possis,  Vir — ,  judicare. 
Imprimis  vera  hoc  [11]  ipsum  ad  laudatidam  Dei  pater  nam 
Providentiam,  Animos  nostras  Mimim  quantum  excitavit ! 

The  truly  Amiable  Boehm  Writes,  upon  some  Account,  which 
has  been  given  of  these  Things;  "Here  is  one  of  t\i^ greatest 
Transactions  at  this  Day  in  the  World,  which  if  it  Proceeds,  as 

'  See  I/atin  above. 


64  Cotton  Mather  and  Angtist  Hermann  Francke. 

it  has  hitherto  done,  will  in  a  very  few  years  come  to  have  a 
much  greater  Influence  on  the  Public k  Affairs  of  the  Worlds  than 
all  the  Battels,  and  Sieges,  which  our  Gazetis^  Mercuries^  and 
Registers  have  been  jBlled  withal." 

And  therefore  Sir,  You  will  not  count  me  over-officious,  or 
guilty  of  an  Impertinent  obtrusion  upon  you,  when  I  tender 
you  this  Imperfect  Abridgment  of  a  Story  so  worthy  to  be  Pon- 
dered in  the  Hearts  of  all,  that  are  waiting  for  the  Consolation 
of  Israel. 

Behold,  a  Seed  of  Piety.,  &  of  Pure  Christianity,  which  is  the 
Kitigdom  of  God  in  the  true  Essence,  and  Glory  of  it.  Quickened 
&  Expanding  in  the  Bowels  of  Germany.,  and  growing  into  such 
Notable  Improvements,  and  under  such  an  Astonishing  and  in 
some  sort  Miracnloiis.,  Blessing  of  God  our  Saviour,  that  we 
ought  most  Seriously  to  offer  up  our  Praises  unto  Him  upon  so 
Inviting  an  occasion,  with  our  Prayers,  that  His  Blessing  upon 
it  may  be  continued.  And  if  something  of  the  Communion  of 
Saints  may  be  this  way  now  expressed  in  this  Country.,  at  so 
vast  a  Distance  from  those  Dear  Servants  of  God,  one  End  of 
Writing  this  Letter  is  Accomplished. 

The  Works  of  God,  performed  by  the  Instrumentality  of  a 
Man  greatly  Beloved.,  have  had  Marvellous  Effects  in  other 
Parts  of  the  World. 

Besides  the  Thousands  of  Souls  Converted  unto  Serious  Piety 
under  the  Tuition  of  those  Hundreds  of  Tutors,  who  teach  all 
the  Fine  things,  that  can  polish  an  Human  Soul,  but  with  Ex- 
quisite Art  Subordinate  everything  to  the  Divine  Skill  of  Living 
to  God.,  &  what  the  Holy  fohn  Arndt.,  about  an  Hundred  Years 
ago,  in  [12]  his  Treatise  of  True  Christianity,  inculcaited  on  the 
loose  Christians  of  his  Age,  (a  Treatise  of  Mighty  Use  among 
them  at  this  time,  and  long  since  Bless'd  for  the  Conversion  of 
millions  of  Souls:)  Here  are  also  provided  those  Instruments, 
who  having  the  Hand  of  the  Lord  with  them,  go  forth,  and  find 
many,  and  will  find  more,  by  their  means,  turned  unto  the  Lord. 

The  strange  blessing  of  God  in  perpetually  sending  in  Suffi- 
cient &  Seasonable  Supplies  unto  such  vast  Undertakings,  for 


Kuno  Francke.  65 

the  Subsisting  of  them,  who  Seek  first  the  Kingdom  of  God^  and 
whose  main  Concern  it  is,  to  promote  the  Knowledge,  and  Ser- 
vice of  their  Saviour,  has  been  a  Marvellous  Incentive  to  Piety 
among  Multitudes  of  People,  a  Living  Sermoti  -upon  the  Sixth 
of  Matthew^  and  the  Thirty-third;  and  of  a  Mighty  Efficac)'. 

Atheists  have  read  the  vStory  with  Tears,  and  have  turned 
unto  God. 

Thousands  that  have  been  distressed  about  a  Subsistence  for 
themselves,  and  their  families,  have  been  awakened  unto  Prayer 
and  Faith^  and  raised  out  of  their  Despondencies. 

Very  many  Charity-Schools  have  been  set  up  here  and  there 
thro'  the  World  upon  the  Excitation  of  what  our  Franckius  had 
exhibited,  tho'  upon  more  visible  Funds  than  his.  But  in  sev- 
eral Places  the  Ministers  of  God  have  gone  surely  in  the  Steps  of 
this  Excellent  Man,  and  tho'  they  have  nothing  but  the  Provi- 
dejice  of  an  Heavenly  Father  to  subsist  them,  have  begun  such 
an  Educatioji  of  Piety  for  the  Poor  among  them  ;  and  they  have 
been  miraculously  prospered. 

That  at  Ausburgh  (sic),  and  that  at  Noriberg^  among  others, 
afford  a  Wonderful  Story. 

Yea,  in  the  year  17 10,  an  honest  Carrier  being  brought  home 
to  God,  was  touched  with  such  a  Concern  at  the  Ignorance  and 
Wickedness  of  the  World,  that  he  sold  his  Wagon,  and  Horses, 
and  entirely  devoted  himself  [13]  to  get  into  a  Method,  by 
which  the  Minds  of  Young  People  may  be  formed  unto  the  most 
Vital  Piety.  Many  derided,  many  opposed  his  Projection;  but 
he  went  on  with  an  unfainting  Industry;  and,  behold,  God  our 
Saviour  enables  him  at  this  day,  with  no  other  Supports,  than 
such  as  He  gives  unto  our  Franckius.^  to  Feed,  and  Cloath,  and 
Lodge  no  less  than  Tiventy  Poor  Lads,  and  employ  a  Student  in 
Divinity  to  Instruct  them  in  the  Fear  of  God.  This  is  within 
six  Hours'  Journey  of  Hall. 

I  know  it  will  be  Impossible  for  such  a  Mind  as  yours  to  read 
this  Letter  without  many  Thoughts  What  shall  be  done  that  the 
Interests  of  true  Piety  may  be  more  effectually  Prosecuted  among 
our  People  ?     And   you  will  be  for  uniting  of   Councils  with 


66  Cotton  Mather  and  Aiignst  Hermann  Francke. 

Good  Men,  upon  the  Noble  Intentions  of  a  Bomfaciiis.  You 
will,  with  Earnest  Supplications  unto  God  for  his  Direction,  set 
Your  Self  to  think,  IV/iat  may  he  further  done^  that  Knoivledge^ 
and  Goodness^  and  those  things^  in  ivhich  there  lies  the  Kiiigdoni 
of  God^  may  be  Promoted  in  the  World?  Wherein,  I  Pray  God, 
Succeed  You  and  Multiply  His  Blessing  upon  You. 
I  Am^ 

SIR, 

Your  most  Hearty  Servant . 

i8.  d.  3.  m.  1715. 

A  Postscript,  on  p.  14,  gives  a  few  laudatory  passages  concern- 
ing the  Franckian  institutions  from  a  sermon  preached  by  Dr. 
Kennet  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Charity  schools  in  London, 
1706,  which  are  evidently  reprinted  from  the  introduction  to 
the  Pietas  Hallensis,  I,  p.  xi. 

KUNO   FRANCKE. 

HARVARD   UNIVERSITY, 
CAMBRIDGE,  MASS. 


FROM    PASTORIUS'    BEE-HIVE   OR   BEE-STOCK.' 


THE    MANUSCRIPT. 


America  has  held  the  Old  World  under  the  spell  of  its  origi- 
nal or  aboriginal  culture  for  four  centuries ;  but  it  has  only 
recently  begun  to  attract  attention  to  the  treasures  it  has 
acquired  from  the  culture  of  the  Old  World  itself.  The  com- 
parative study  of  language,  literature  and  institutions  is  bring- 
ing to  light  new  documentary  evidences  of  the  close  relation  of 
the  new  civilization  of  the  New  World  and  the  old  culture  of 
the  Old  World  ;  thus  adding  a  new  and  rich  field  to  the  domain 
of  scientific  research. 

It  is  perhaps  safe  to  say  that,  of  all  the  original  German-Ameri- 
can documents  representing  European  culture  in  the  Colonial 
period,  the  most  interesting  and  extensive  is  the  imiciun^  the  folio 
manuscript  left  by  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  "  the  Pennsylvania 
Pilgrim,"  the  founder  of  Germantown.  This  document,  contain- 
ing Pastorius'  "  Bee-Hive  "  or  "  Bee-Stock,"  is  the  Magna  Charta 
of  German  culture  in  colonial  America  and  a  veritable  speaduni 
scientiamm  of  the  seventeenth  century — the  first  American 
Encyclopedia,  antedating  the  epoch  of  the  Encyclopedists, 

ORIGIN    AND    HISTORY   OF   THE    MANUSCRIPT. 

The  origin  and  history  of  the  "  Bee-Hive  "  of  Pastorius  are 
significant,  as  showing  the  integrity  and  loyalty  of  German 
family  tradition  in  America  in  colonial  times.  Pastorius,  evi- 
dently painfully  conscious  of  the  peril  of  cultural  deterioration 
confronting  his  descendants  in  the  wilds  of  the  west,  where 
books  were  few  and  the  love  of  them  scarce,  composed  this  The- 
saurus of  the  known  and  useful  in  his  time  as  a  heritage  to  his 
children,  his  two  sons,  and,  let  us  confess,  as  a  memorial  of  what 


'  The  Pastorius  Genealogy  is  in  preparation  by  Mr.  D.  P.  Bruner,  and  the 
Literary  Work  of  Pastorius  by  M.  D.  Learned. 


68  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive. 

their  father  had  known.     On  the  inside  of  the  parchment  cover, 
in  his  own  hand,  is  the  following,  referring  to  the  book  : 

"This  book  saith  thus  to  my  two  Sons: 

"  Part  not  with  me!     I'm  excellently  good, 
If  rightly  read  and  rightly  understood." 

From  the  book  itself  we  learn  (p.  50)  the  ptirpose  of  the 
"  Bee-Hive"  :  "At  the  first  undertaking  of  this  Book  my  mean 
scope  was,  for  the  future  Imitation  of  my  two  Sons,  onely  to 
collect  common  Proverbs,  witty  Sentences,  wise  and  goodly  say- 
ings, with  the  like  substantial  marrow  of  other  men's  writings, 
etc."  See  page  55.  And  again  (MS.  p.  51)  he  states  the  same 
fact,  speaking  of  himself  as  follows  : 

"  When  he  took  this  in  hand,  he  did  not  think 
To  show  to  any  man  his  Paper  and  his  Ink. 
His  only  Purpose  was,  in  Black  and  White, 
With  his  two  little  ones  (departing)  to  abide. 

"  Nevertheless,  this  may  live  when  he  is  dead  ;  and  thus  he 
leaves  it  to  the  Perusing  of  his  Readers ;  not  caring  a  doit 
whether  they  will  like  it  or  dislike  it.  He  knows  that  it  will  not 
please  all,  and  doubts  if  it  will  please  some." 

Intimation  of  a  change  of  plan  is  given  on  p.  55  of  the  MS.  : 
"  But  afterwards  considering  the  copiousness  of  Words,  Phrases 
and  Expressions  in  the  English  (my  said  two  Sons'  Country-lan- 
guage ;  for,  seeing  I  and  my  wife  are  both  Germans,  I  dare  not 
call  it  their  mother-)  tongue,  which  they,  if  possible,  should  per- 
fectly learn  to  read  and  write  and  to  indite."  And  also  p.  51 
quoted  above,  and  in  revised  form,  p.  55  :  "After  I  had  col- 
lected two  Volumes  of  delightful  Proverbs,  witty  Sentences, 
wise  and  godly  sayings  ;  comprising  for  the  most  part  necessary 
and  profitable  caveats." 

The  history  of  the  Hive  manuscript  is  similar  to  that  of  most 
old  manuscripts — a  succession  of  disappearances,  reappearances, 
and  not  a  little  mutilation.  A  tradition  of  this  document  (still  ctir- 
rent  in  the  Pastorius  family)  says  that  Pastorius  directed  that  it 
should  be  kept  in  the  possession  of  a  male  descendant  next  in  line 


M.  D.  Learyted.  69 

within  the  limit  of  ten  miles  of  Germantown.  This  wish  of  Pas- 
torius  seems  to  have  been  heeded  by  all  the  heirs  of  the  manuscript. 
A  few  years  ago  the  document  was  loaned  to  the  late  Professor 
Oswald  Seidensticker,  through  the  medium  of  the  Historical 
Society  of  Pennsylvania,  and,  after  being  duly  returned  to  the 
Pastorius  family,  disappeared  for  a  time.  Efforts  were  made  by 
persons  in  and  outside  of  the  State  to  rediscover  it,  but  to  no 
purpose.  Rumors  were  afloat  that  the  MS.  had  gone  with 
Washington  Pastorius'  family  to  Boston,  and  thence  to  Col- 
orado Springs.  A  few  months  ago,  however,  late  in  1896,  the 
present  writer  was  given  a  clue  to  the  whereabouts  of  the  docu- 
ment, by  Julius  F.  Sachse,  Esq.,  and  finally  allowed  by  the 
present  holder,  Mr.  Daniel  Pastorius  Bruner,  of  Germantown, 
to  make  use  of  it  for  the  purpose  of  bringing  the  most  impor- 
tant parts  of  it  before  the  public  in  an  accurate  print  of  the 
original  with  critical  treatment.  It  seems  now  that  the  MS.  has 
never  been  away  from  Germantown  except  during  the  period  in 
which  it  was  loaned  to  Professor  Seidensticker.  Mr.  Bruner, 
the  present  holder  of  the  document,  writes  me,  under  the  date 
of  April  13,  1897,  as  follows,  giving  the  names  of  the  members 
of  the  family  through  whom  the  MS.  has  been  handed  down : 

"  I  don't  know  positively  that  the  '  Bee-Hive '  was  ever  taken  away 
from  Philadelphia.  Mr.  [Washington]  Pastorius  kept  a  quantity  of 
papers,  etc.,  in  the  Bank  in  Germantown,  and  he  stated  to  me  that  he 
intended  to  keep  it  there.  Hence  I  think  you  can  safely  state  that  it 
has  never  been  out  of  Philadelphia  county,  and  out  of  Germantown 
only  during  the  time  that  Mr.  Seidensticker  had  it.  The  Family  Rec- 
ord shows  pretty  well  in  whose  possession  it  has  been  since  the  death 
of  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius.     The  writing  is  in  the  hand-writing  of 

"  I.  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius. 
"  2.  Henry  Pastorius,  his  son. 
"3.   Daniel  Pastorius,  grandson. 

r  Abraham  Pastorius,  great  grandson  )  p      , 
"  4-  ]  Daniel  Pastorius,  "  "  j  ^^0^^^^^. 

C     My  great  grandfather. 
"5.  Washington  Pastorius. 

"6.   Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  son  of  Washington. 
"7.   Daniel  Pastorius  Bruner." 


70  Pasiorius''   Bee-Hive. 

The  MS.  is  now  in  the  possession  of  the  last-named,  ]\Ir.  D. 
P.  Brunei,  of  Germantown,  who  spares  no  pains  to  preserve  it 
from  mutilation  and  further  decay. 

DESCRIPTION    OF   THE    MANUSCRIPT. 

The  Bee-Hive  manuscript  presents  the  external  appearance  of 
a  mediaeval  document.  It  is  written  on  strong  paper,  in  folio 
7)^x12  inches,  and  bound  in  a  parchment  cover,  taken  evidently 
from  still  older  books  or  other  documents  (as  one  contains  the 
text  of  an  old  writ  of  release)  and  the  whole  is  tied  together  by 
two  strips  of  faded  red  leather.  Upon  the  cover  is  found  the 
following  title : 

ALVEARIUM   APICUL^   GERM ANOPO LITANY 

ANGLICANUM. 

(written  on  the  edge  of  the  folding  cover,  also  on  the  back  of 
cover,  under  the  folding  edge,  and  in  apparently  older  form  on 
the  inside  reverse  of  the  cover).  Each  repetition  of  the  title 
represents  probably  a  re-binding  or  re-arrangement  of  the  book. 
The  writing  itself  of  the  "Bee-Hive"  is  in  the  very  regular, 
fine,  legible  hand  of  Pastorius,  whose  signature  and  hand-writing 
are  so  familiar  to  those  acquainted  with  the  early  records  of  Ger- 
mantown indited  by  the  jurist-scribe  while  agent  of  the  Frankfort 
Company  and  afterwards.  The  first  few  pages  of  the  MS.  in 
its  present  form  have  crumbled  away  at  the  top  under  the  cor- 
rosive effect  of  the  ink,  which  was  black,  except  in  a  few 
instances  where  red  ink  was  used  for  underscoring. 

CONTENTS   OF   THE   MANUSCRIPT. 

The  fact  that  the  manuscript  is  slowly  disintegrating  and  has 
lost  some  folios  makes  it  desirable  to  place  the  contents  of  the 
surviving  folios  on  record.  The  contents  at  present  in  the  order 
of  the  MS.  are  the  following : 

Pages   I  ?-2  ?  1   (loose  leaf)  contains  an  introductory  account  of  the 
origin  of  the  "  Bee-Hive." 


'  The  interrogation  point  (?)  after  numbers  indicates  that  the  number  is  either 
wanting  or  illegible. 


M.  D.  Learned.  71 

3?-5?  The  title  of  the  '*  Bee-Hive"  in  seven  languages  (Greek,  Latin, 
English,  Dutch,  German,  Italian,  French)  and  other  introductory- 
matter  in  prose  and  verse. 

6?  Blank. 

7  ?-24.   Inde.x  of  words  or  subjects  treated  in  the  book. 

24  ?  '  'An  alphabetical  register  of  the  names  of  those  who  [forsooth]  are 
immortalized  by  Epitaphs  rehearsed  in  the  Manuscript  from  p.  11 
etc." 

24-40.  "A  Peculiar  Inde.x  or  Table  to  Onomastical  Considerabus 
which  begin  page  63,  iii." 

41-45.   Blank. 

46-48.  "  Symbola  Onomastica  vide  infra  pag.  55,  66,  67,  i,  quae  hie 
continuantur. " 

49.  "  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  his  Book,  1696." 

50.  "  The  Contents  of  this  Portable  Volume  of  Importation." 

I?  (New  numbering.)  "Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  his  Alphabetical 
Hive." 

2?-io?  "  Tantum  Quantum  seu  Donum  Bonum  Inscriptionum.  In- 
scriptions of  Sundry  Sorts,  and  yet  the  most  in  Latin  Words." 

11-15.  "  Some  Epitaphs  ex  Libello  Epitaphiorum  Glim  a  me  Collecta." 

16-17.   Blank. 

18-21.    "  Inscriptions  &  Bits  of  Advice." 

22.  Copy  of  Verses  written  by  Thomas  Elwood. 

23.  Blank. 

24.  Gospel  of  Nicodemus  and  other  books  discussed. 
25-53.   "  Emblematical  Recreations." 

54.    "  Mellitotrophium  Apiculae  Germanopolitanje,  F.  D.  P." 
55  first.    "  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  His  Hive  or  Beestock,"  etc. 
55  second.    "  Being  a  Supplement  to  the  next  three  Leaves,  Quakers." 
56-57  first.   ' '  Quakers. ' ' 

58  second.   "  Some  Treatises  of  God's  People  called  Quakers  in  Gen- 

eral." 

59  first-6i  first.    "  No  Quakers." 

61  second.   "Quakers." 

62  first-63  first.    "  No  Quakers." 

63  second-64  first.    "  Friends'  Writings." 

64  second.    "  No  Quakers." 

65  first.    "No  Quakers." 

65  second.  "Some  more  Anonymous  Writings  published  by  those 
called  Quakers." 


72  Pastorius^  Bee-Hive. 

66-67  first.  "A  few  Supplements  to  my  former  Emblematical  Recrea- 
tions." 

67  second-69.   "Continuatio  Symbolorum  Onomasticorum." 

68  first-68  second.   Two  leaves  pasted  together. 
69-70  second.    "  Index  seqq.  Metrorum." 

70  second-i  22(59  pp. ).  ' '  Silvula  Rhytmorum  Germanopolitanorum. ' ' 
(First  14  pp.  have  no  numbers  visible  ;  86  and  87  are  two  leaves 
pasted  together). 

1 23-131.   Blank,  except  at  the  bottom  of  131. 

131-133.   Epigrams  and  so  forth. 

134.  Blank. 

135.  More  Epigrams. 

136-140.  "Continuatio  Symbolorum  Onomasticorum,  adde  supra  p.  55." 

141  ?-i43?    Blank. 

[     ].    I  page  containing  deed  of  Henry  Cassel  to  Thomas  Rutter. 

[     ].   One  unnumbered  page,  blank. 

88-110.    "  Genethliacum,    or   An    Hearty   Congratulation   and   Some 

Onomastical  Considerations  occasioned  by  Our  Dearly  Esteemed 

Name-Sake,  John  Penn. 
(Six    unnumbered   pages.       Then   page   93    numbered,   followed   by 

eight  unnumbered  pages,  and  then  pp.  104,  105?,  106  to  no;. 
111-125.    "  Plus  Ultra,  or  Some  Further  Onomastical  Considerations." 
126?.   Omitted. 

127-159.    I.     (Continuation  of  foregoing). 

160-163.    "  The  Tithe-Teacher  Plaintiff,  the  Poor  Man  Defendant." 
164-252.   Continuation  of  Onomastical  Considerations  from  p.  159. 
253-259?  Blank. 
[     ].   Commemoratory    Poem   on    Francis   Daniel  Pastorius,    Howell 

Powell,  fecit  3imo.  3tii.  mensis  1720. 
222  second  ?-225  second.   Genealogical  Table  of  Pastorius  Family,  6  pp. 
226  second-227  second.   Blank,  2  pp. 
228  second-230  ?  The  Pastorius  Necrology,  3  pp. 
[     ]-2o8.   Unnumbered  pages — a  sort  of  Encyclopedic  Dictionary. 
C82dp. ,  numbered  as  217).   "Additions,"  with  a  new  marginal  num- 
bering (No.  1-1005,  I49th-i50th  pp.  loose). 
375  (numbering  resumed).    "  The  Writings  of  Some  called  Quakers,  as 

also  of  some  other  honest  men." 
376.    ' '  The  Writings  of  Some  called  Quakers  and  other  good  Authors. ' ' 

(General  bibliography,  102  titles  in  all). 


M.  D.  Learned.  ^t, 

377-380?  4  pp.    "  Those  that  will  read  may  read  the  following  Folios, 
Quartos,  etc."   List  of  facts  on  various  subjects,  numbered  iii  ff. 

380  ?  Books  Published  by  those  of  the  Philadelphian  Society. 

381  (vide   Port-folio  48).   Continuation   to    Encyclopedic   Dictionary 
(94  pp.,  with  the  94th  numbered  as  380). 

380-385.    Continuation   of    "Additions   to    Encyclopedic   Dictionary 

(No.  1006-15 10). 
386.    "  Catalogue  of  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  his  Manuscripts.   Besides 

this  present  Alvearium  or  Alphabetical  Hive  (The  Contents  whereof 

are  specified  above,  on  the  first  leaf"). 
387-398  (ten  pp.  unnumbered,  409-411  and  411  ?-424?)  Continuation 

of  "Additions"  (No.  1511-1700). 
425-433.  "Alphabetum  Rhythmicum,  etc.  (No.  1-750). 
[     ]  (ill    unnumbered   pages).    Continuation  of  "Additions"    (No. 

1 70 1 -4860). 
[     ]  (2  pp.).   Blank. 

[     ]  (4  PP-)-  Continuation  of  "Additions"  (No.  4861-4890). 
[     ]  (2  pp.).   Blank,  except  numbering  (No.  4891  ?-49io). 
[     ]  (3  pp.).   Blank,  except  numbering  and  beginning  of  ^  (No.  49 II- 

4931)- 
[     ]  (2  pp.).   Nearly  blank. 
[     ]•   Page  unplaced. 

The  best  impression  of  the  "  Bee-Hive  "  can  be  derived  from 
a  perusal  of  the  title-pages  as  they  stand,  in  each  of  v^^hich  some 
new  phase  of  the  work  is  elaborated  ;  to  this  end  the  text  of 
the  title-pages  in  their  present  order  in  the  MS.  is  accurately 
printed  here. 

The  pages  of  the  MS.  are  all  ruled  across  and  along  the 
margin,  and  each  ruled  space  is  numbered.  In  the  print  the 
horizontal  ruling  is  represented  by  a  space,  the  numbers  only 
being  retained.  In  the  MS.  the  numbers  were  placed  usually 
on  the  outer  margin.  The  original  capitalization,  abbreviation 
and  punctuation  is  retained.  Where  division  into  verses  differs 
from  the  MS.,  the  MS.  line  is  indicated  by  the  mark  :  |  The 
German  passages  are  in  German  script  in  the  MS.  An  asterisk 
(*)  indicates  that  the  passage  is  not  legible. 


74  Pa  storms'  Bee- Hive. 

IFolio  if] 

For  as  much  as  our  Memory  is  not  Capable  to  retain  all  remarkable 
words,  Phrases,  Sentences  or  Matters  of  moment,  which  we  do  hear 
and  read,  It  becomes  every  good  Scholar  to  have  a  Common- Place- 
Book,  &  therein  to  Treasure  up  whatever  deserves  his  Notice,  &c. 
And  to  the  end  that  he  may  readily  know,  both  whither  to  dispose  and 
Insert  each  particular,  as  also  where  upon  Occasion  to  find  the  same 
again,  &c.  he  ought  to  make  himself  an  Alphabetical  Index,  like  that 
of  this  Bee  Hive,  beginning  infra  page  lo. 

And  Seeing  it  is  the  largest  of  my  Manuscripts,  which  I  in  my  riper 
years  did  gather  out  of  excellent  English  Authors,  whose  Names  ye 
may  see  pag.  56,  &c. 

My  Desire,  Last  Will  and  Testament  is,  that  my  Two  Sons  John 
Samuel  and  Henry  Pastorius  shall  have  &  hold  the  same  with  the  Rest 
of  my  Writings,  mentioned  infra  page  386  to  themselves  &  their  heirs 
for  ever,  and  not  to  part  with  them  for  any  thing  in  this  World;  but 
rather  to  add  thereunto  some  of  their  own,  &c.  Because  the  price  of 
Wisdom  is  above  Rubies  and  cannot  be  Valued  with  the  precious 
Onyx  or  Sapphire:  And  to  get  Understanding  is  rather  to  be  chosen 
than  Silver  and  Gold.  &c. 

Prov.  16:16.     Job.  28:  16,  18.  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius. 

3.  In  this  Volume  I  only  collected  the  Best  out  of  English  (or  Eng- 
lished) Books,  as  you  may  see  from  foil.  55  to  64.  Excepted 
never  the  less  some  few  lines  out  of  the  Dutch  Writings  of 
Sebastiayi  Frayick,  a  honest  &  notable  man  in  his  Time,  Vid. 
fol.  59,  num.  114,  115,  118. 

2.  Item  out  of  Georgy  Horny  Area  Mosis;  Ejusdemq.  orbe  Impe- 

rante  &  Politico,  vid.  fol.  60,  num.  138. 

3.  Item  out  of  Henrici  Comely  Agrippae  libello  de  Vanitate  Scientia- 

rum,  vid.  fol.  59,  num.  31. 

4.  Item  out  of  Johannis  Valentini   Andrece   Menippo  sive  Dialogis 

Satyricis,  vid.  fol.  59,  num.  32. 

5.  Item  out  of  the  high-German  Medicinal  &  Chirurgical  Works  of 

Theophrastus  Paracelsus,  fol.  60,  num.  219;  whereof  these  are 
printed  in  the  same  year,  viz.  1603,  both  in  folio  at  Strassburg 
&  in  4°  at  Frankfort,  I  quote  them  only  Parac.  fol.  &  Parac.  4? 
where  in  their  very  Compleat  Indexes  or  Tables  you  may  look 
for  the  pages,  as  also  in  mine  Alvearialibus  (a  small  Mscript  in 
8°)  from  page  170  to  274. 


M.  D.  Lear7ied.  75 

Of  these  writings   I  further  carried  a  deal  into  my  Collectanea 
Theologica,  and  into  my  Talia  Qualia  Medicinalia,  &c. 

6.  Item  out  of  Nehemiae  6^r<?ze/'^Tractatu  de  Sale  Cathartico  Ebesha- 

mensi,  vide  fol.  59,  num.  125. 

7.  Item  Petri  ^^  I^^^  Medici  Gratianopolitani  Tractatus  duo,  i.  Pestis 

prsecavendse  &  curandae  Methodus  certissima, 
II.    Per  Dogmaticorum  cum  Spagiricis.   in   12?  1628.    Petrus  de 
Vege  sive  Vegaeus. 
S.   Item  Cornely  Drebely  Belgae  Tractatus  duo,  i.  de  Natura  Elemen- 

toruni,  II.  quinta  Essentia  in  12P  1628. 
9.   Item  Ian  Loets  Wintersche  Avonden.  gedruckt  tot  Utrecht,  in  12° 

1650. 
10.   Item  Guldene  Annotatien  van  Franciscus  Heerman;  den  vyfthiende 
Druck,  t'  Amsterdam,  in  12?  1676.' 

iFolio  2  ?'\ 

*****  The  covetous     *     *     will  bind; 

But  Boaz  hand-fuls  leaves       For  honest  Ruth  to  find: 
Here  joyfully  she  gleans          Whole  Ephahs  without  pains. 
Quod  licuit  quondam  Hcet  et  nunc;  atq.  modestis  Virginibus  fas  est 

soUicitare  Viros,   To  Court. 
Amlyt  affinam  sic  suavis  Rutha  Boazum  Invectis  precibus,  spicilegaq. 
manu.  adde  infra  pag.  if'^,  §  3.  Et  Virtute  sua. 

2.  r  Doctus;  Fortis;  Sospes,  Castus,  Pinguis.  1 

Omnis  homo  non  est  Dives,  \  Pauper;  Servus;  Liber;  Turpis;  Sandus  \ 
qui  Dives  habetur,  etc.  ISegnis;  Gnavus;  Prosper;  Stultus.  J 

Some  are  for  Learning  [Riches;  Wisdom;  Beauty;]  in  Esteem; 
But  oftentimes  not  what  they  seem. 

Strength  [health;  Wealth;  Wit;]  in  gi'eat  Esteem    .     . 


1  In  this  Hive  there  are  also  alledged  a  few  notable  Sentences  of  the  primi- 
tive Fathers,  viz.  Ignatius,  Polycarpus,  Dionysius,  Justinus  Martyr,  Irenaeus, 
Tertullianus,  Clemens  Alexandrinus,  Origenes,  Gregorius  Thacem  [?],  Cypri- 
anus,  Arnobius,  Lactantius,  Eusebius  Caesariensis,  Athanasius,  Hilarius,  Cyrillus, 
Ephraem  Syrus,  Basilius  Magnus,  Gregorius  Nazianzenus,  Epiphanius,  Ambro- 
sius,  Gregorius  Nyssenus,  Theotoretus,  Hieronymus,  Chrysostomus,  Augus- 
tinus,  Petrus  Chrysologus,  Prosper,  Fulgentius,  Gregorius  Magnus,  Isidorus, 
Beda,  Johanes  Damascenus,  Nicephorus,  Theophyiactus,  Anselmus,  Rupertus, 
Bernardus,  Petrus  Lombardus,  Alexander  Hales,  Bonaventura,  Thomas  Aquinas. 
N.  B.     Those  of  Thomas  a  Kempis  you'll  find  in  my  Collect.  Theolog.  in  4°. 


76  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive. 

Mancher  scheinet  Reich  [Klug;  Starck]  zu  seyn; 
1st  aber  nichts  als  bloser  Schein. 

Fett  ist  gleichwohl  nur  geschwulst. 
Frequenter  Opinio  fallit. 

3.  Men  of  Learning,  Sense  and  Reason      Have  to  ev'ry  thing  a  Season. 

As  the  Summer  serves  the  Mason,  And  the  Winter-time  the  Thrasher: 

Market-days  the  Haberdasher,  Sun-shine  Hay-harv'st  &  the  Washer. 

Omnia  Tempus  habent;  Tempore  quaeq.  suo. 

Alles  hat  seine  Zeit,  Lachen  und  Traurigkeit, 

4.  An  Encyclopady  of  all  that  can  be  known,  Those  very  well  may 

make  by  Common  placing  do  *  *  * 
—-i  The  better  sort  of  things,  out  of  the  best  of  Books,  Who  happily 

their  Spears  beat  into  Pruning  hooks. 

5.  I  acknowledge  with  Macrobius,  that  in  this  Book  all  is  mine,  & 

nothing  is  mine;  Omne  meum  nihil  meum  and  though  Sy- 
nesius  says,  It's  a  more  unpardonable  theft,  to  steal  the  labours 
of  dead  men,  than  their  garments,  magis  impium  mortuorum 
lucubrationes  quam  Vestes  furari,  yet  the  wisest  of  men  con- 
cludes, there's  no  new  thing  under  the  Sun,  Nihil  novi  sub  sole, 
and  an  other,  that  nothing  can  be  said,  but  what  has  been  said 
already,  Nihil  dicitur,  quod  non  dictum  prius.  Seneca  writes 
to  his  Lucilius  that  there  was  not  a  day  in  which  he  did  not 
either  write  somethings  or  read  &  epitomize  some  good  author. 
Vide  omnino  Spectator  num.  316. 
[Here  many  Books  Quint-essensed  you  see, 
give  thanks  to  God,  who  thus  enabled  me.] 


M.  D.  Learned.  77 

S^Folio  3  f  ] 

'^  rob  ^pavZ,iaxo'h  JavcTJXcg  Uacrroptoo  A'u(/'i?.7j  MsXirrwv 

Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius  Alvear  istud 
Jure  sibi  proprio  vndicat  atq.  suis. 

Francis  Daniel  Pastorius' s  VAVEK-Hive, 

Whose  Beginning  once  was  in  page  Fifty-five 

ADDE  PAG.  54,  51,  49,  9,  8,  &  7. 

Franz  Daniel  Pastorius  syn  Bie  -  Stock. 

Frantz  Daniel  Pastorius  sein  Immen  -  korb. 

L'Avia  (Albio  b  Cupile)  di  Francesco  Daniele  Pastorio. 

La  Ruche  (AuGE,  Panier  ou  Catoire)  de  Francois  Daniel 

Pastorius. 

In  these  seven  Languages  I  this  my  Book  do  own,  vide  infra  p.  7  num.  i 

Friend,  if  thou  find  it,  Send  the  same  to  Germantown; 

Thy  Recompense  shall  be  the  half  of  half  a  Crown : 

But,  tho'  it  be  no  more  than  half  the  half  of  this, 

Pray  !  Be  Content  therewith,  &  think  it  not  amiss. 

Yea  and  if,  when  thou  com'st,  my  Cash  perhaps  is  gone, 

(For  Money  is  thus  scarce,  that  often  I  have  none) 

A  Cup  of  Drink  may  do:  Or  else,  alas  !  thou  must 

Trust  unto  me  a  while.  As  I  to  others  Trust, 

Who  failing  make  me  fail:  A  thing  extreme  unjust  ! 

To  which  I  have  no  lust;  But  must  per  Force,  poor  Dust. 

Freund,    Was  diijindest,  wiedergieb, 

Sonst  halt  man  dich  vor  einen  Dieb 
In  diesem;  und  in  jenem  Leben 

Folgt  anders  nichts  als  Hollen  -  pein. 

Gott  Selbst  hat  disz  Gesetz  gegeben 

Zu  thun,  wie  man  Gethan  will  seyn. 

Quod  Tibi  vis  fieri,  hoc  facias  Alys. 


78  Pastorius'  Dee-Hive. 

2.   My  Brains  I  may  not  longer  break,    Wlien  now  tJie  Hive  itself  does 
speak. 
Come  Friend  !  Be't  Gentleman  or  And  to  my  two  Sons  It  saith: 

Groom,       Part  not  with  me!  I'm  excellently  good, 
Peruse  me  in  my  Master's  Room;  If  rightly  us'd  &  rightly  understood. 

But  never  talk  of  Borrowing,  You  full  well  know  your  father  never 

He  mightily  dislikes  the  Thing  &c.  would 

I  once  was  lent,  and  almost  lost;  Have  sold  this  Hive  for  7  lbs.  of  Gold. 

Henceforth  I'll  keep  at  home,  Or  462  sh.  Currt.  Silver  Money 

And  thus  attending  on  my  Post,  of  Penn  Silvania. 

Fear  nothing  that  may  come. 
F.  D.  P. 
Fretus  Dei  Praesentia, 
Fatigabo  Difficultates  Patientia, 
Frustraborq.  Dolos  Prudentia. 
Fortunante  Deo  Pietas  Fert  Denique  Palmam,  vide  infra  pag.  55  &  67. 
Foduv  MeU(7<Tat.q  fiiv  ykuxij  (TTai^ei  MiXCj 
'Ev>'/sv  (fApayys^  (sic  !)  aipavov  toh  iziedt.     Adde  infra  pag.  54,  §  3. 

Rosa  quidem  Apibus  Mel  dulce  stillat, 

Sed  inde  Aranea  grave  efficit  Venerium. 
From  that  Rose,  whence  the  Bees  their  sweetest  honey  pluck, 
The  Spiders,  Tarantules,  the  worst  of  Venom  suck. 
Besser  bringt  man  Honigseim 
Immengleich  von  fernen  heim, 
Als  dass  man  nach  art  der  Spinnen 
Selbst  was  giftigs  solt  ersinnen. 
'AyaTza.  MiXt  "Apxzoq.     Mel  diligit  Ursus. 
Ursus  Ego:  laetor  liquidi  dulcedine  Mellis, 
Inq.  meis  Nectar  dispone  dapsile  Cellis. 
M-q  vejiiaa  jSaioIffr^  Xdpib  ^aioTatv  dnijdsT. 
Ne  parviducas  Parva,  est  sua  gratia  Parvis. 
I  with  Demochares,  small  Things  to  scorn  forbid : 
Oft  in  a  little  Place  great  Treasures  may  be  hid. 

A  Nightingale  is  better  than  a  kite.     Levit.  11  :  14. 
No  Alms,  nor  Gift  above  the  Widows  Mite.     Mark.  12:  42. 
A  small  Diamond  is  of  more  worth  than  the  largest  Brick. 
In  Kleinen  S'acken  ist  das  best  Gewiirtz. 

[Fo/io  4  f] 
I.   Pastor- Apis  dulci  distendit  Nectare  Cellas 

Ut  Coqua  quaeq.  queat  coquitare  Jocanter  ofellas. 
Quas  Mel  laetificat  vetulas  vernale  Puellas, 
turpes 


M.  D.  Learned.  ^(^ 

Has  Aloe  reddit  moerentes  fellea  Bellas. 
Flattery  -  Honey  crlad 

Veracity  -  Aloes    "^^^^^  P^^P'^  sad. 

2.   Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorms,  Alvear  istud 

Condidit,  Ergo  Suae  Posteritatis  erit. 

Posteritatis  erit  Pastori,  siqua  superstes  ; 

Sin  Orbus  post  hac,  Orbis  habeto  Favos  ? 

Est  prius  in  Votis,  ast  haec  Suprema  Voluntas. 

Vota,  Voluntatem  subdo.  Jehova,  Tibi. 

Velle  Tuum,  non  Velle  meum,  fiat  Sanctissime  Jesu, 

nostrum  Velle  sit  harmonicum. 

Fac  tamen,  ut  quod  vis,  id  simul  ipse  veliin. 

Gottes  fiigen  Mein  Vergniigen  : 

Gottes  Schickung  Mein  Erquickung. 

Alles  Gott  Ergeben  1st  das  beste  Leben. 

Was  )  f  mehr 

^^-jGott  will,  und  nichtj^j^,^ 

Alles  was  Er  thut.  1st  uns  niitz  und  gut. 

Seine  Lieb  und  Treii  1st  alle  morgen  neii,  etc. 

Zeitliches  Leiden  Bringt  Ewige  Freiiden. 
Alles  Creiitz  und  Hertzenleidt  Dienet  uris  zur  Seeligkeit  ; 
Denn  Welchen  der  Herr  lieb  hat,  den  Ziichtiget  Er.     Heb.  12:6. 
Mk  Xpiazt  xooip'ja  Te  Duce  Salvus  ero, 

Alle  tritt  und  schritt  Geh  Herr  Jesu  mit. 

3.  Ad  nasutos  Vitilitigatores,  quos  Zoilos,  Mo?nos,  Homeromastiges  et 
Aristarchos  appellamus. 

Dum  Sugillatis,  dice.  Sic  Sutor  Apellem  ! 

Ne  crepites  ultra,  Cerdo,  tuam  Crepidam. 

Sed  non  nullus  ait,  Facies  Cornicula  risum, 

Quando  suas  Plumas  Grex  Avium  repetet. 

Non  moror  hoc,  Veniant  omnes  omnino  Canorae, 

Galbula  Frater  erit  ;  Quid  Philomela?  Soror. 

Noctua,  Striae,  Bubo,  Scops,  Nycticoraxq.  facessant  ; 

A  quibus  accepi  nil,  nihil  hae  referent. 
Censure  this  Book,  most  freely,  Friends,  and  spare  not  ; 
Like  or  Dislike,  Praise  or  Dispraise,  I  care  not. 
Cry  :  Foolish  /ack-dazv,  when  the  tender-feather'd  Flock 
Once  redemand  their  Plumes,  Thou  art  our  Laughing-stock. 


8o  Pastoi'iiis'  Dee-Hive. 

However,  if  my  Pains  be  rightly  understood, 

I  doubt  not  but  you  will  _,  .  , 

.,,  say  :  Ihe  greatest  part  is  good, 
some  will      -^  &  V  ^ 

I  am  a  Bee,  (no  Drone)  tho'  without  Sting, 
Here  you  may  see,  what  Honey-Combs  I  bring. 
Sufficient  to  supply  Your  want  &  Satisfy 
The  Readers  Appetite,  etc. 
To  painful  Bees  Some  do  prefer  (I  spie,) 
'      The  idle  Drone,  the  Wasp  &  Butterflie  ; 

Alas  !  To  these  they  give  more  leave  to  thrive. 
Than  Honey-Birds,  who  labour  for  the  Hive  ! 
And  when  perhaps  once  gotten  into  grace, 
By  Gnats^  again  are  beaten  out  of  Place.  Vide  Peach.  Emb.  50. 
So  Men  of  good  Desert 
Must  often  stand  apart. 
And  as  Fr.  Quarles  says  in  his  Emblems  : 

The  Ploughman's  Whistle  &  the  Trivial  Flute 
Find  more  Acceptance  than  Apollo's  Lute. 
Item  :  Men  prefer  unskill'd  Tongues 
Ev'n  to  Seraphick  Songs. 

\,Folio5?-\ 

Nullum  est  hie  Dictwn,  qiiod  non  dictufn  sit prius.      Terentius. 

I.  Apes,  ut  ajunt,  imitari  debemus,  quae  vagantur,  &  Flores  ad  Mel 

faciendum  idoneos. 
Deinde,    quicquid  attulere   disponunt,    ac   per   Favos    digerunt. 

Seneca  Epist.  84. 
Floriferis  ut  Apes  in  Saltibus  omnia  libant, 
Omnia  nos  itidem  Depascimur  aurea  dicta, 
Aurea,  Perpetua  Semper  dignissima  Vita.  Lucretius, 
Legere  et  non  Seligere  est  Negligere. 
Lire,  et  ne  point  Noter,  c'est  Radoter. 
Vergeefs  is  dan  uw  Werck  gedaen, 
Wanneer  ghy  Leest,  en  merckt  niets  aen. 

Reading  is  null  &  quite  of  none  effect 

Unless  we  cull  &  for  ourselves  select. 

The  Chief  &  Choicest  which  we  see, 

Ev'n  in  Superlative  Degree. 

'  In  the  Latin  called  Gnathenes,  &  in  the  English  Pick-thanks,  Clam-backs, 
Sneezing  Companions,  etc. 


M.  D.  Learned.  8i 

Dum  Legis  atq.  nihil  proprios  Excerpis  in  Usus, 

Te  fallis,  Tempusq.  tuum  ;  Vaga  Lectio  Lusus.  | 
All  ye  that  Read  &  nothing  Note 
Are  mad  caps  (say  the  French)  and  dote.  | 
Or  work  in  vain,  (the  Low-Dutch  quote), 
And  loose  your  Time  as  I  do  vote.  | 

But  again,   Non  Chartae  t'm,   sed  Cordi  plurima  fige,  Sunt 
Similes  Byngi 

Liber  atq.  Memoria  B.  | 
The  rarest  things  and  Cases, 
The  fairest  Words  and  Phrases, 
Put  in  thy  Coiiion-Places  ;  j 
Yet  still  not  there  alone. 
For  Tables  ev'n  of  Stone, 
May  break,  be  lost  and  gone. 
Then  write  the  letters  |  of  both  in  heart  &  mind. 
Where  thou  art  sure  to  find 
The  rarest  Cases  and  fairest  Phrases  Quicker  than  in  Comon- Places.  | 

Ad  Ledorem  Benevolum  qui  Nomine  dignus  Amici. 

Haec  Ego  collegi  quse  Tu  Lectissima,   Lector,  Jure  vocare  potes; 

Nam  legis  &  relegis. 
Si  nihil  hie  discas,  temet  culpaveris  ipsum,  Hoc  Sententiolas  mille 

Volumen  habet. 
Multa  tibi  Veterum  Liber  hie,  nee  pauca  Novorum 

Scriptorum  Canones  doctaq.  Dicta  refert: 

His,  licet  ambiguis,  nihil  ominus  utere  mecum; 
Quae  bona  sunt  lauda,  Falsaq.  linque  malis. 

adde  pag.  7,  num.  3. 
Disz  Buch  ist  gleich  der  Welt:  Die  Zeilen  wie  die  Leut, 
Wer  lauter  gute  sucht,  Verlieret  Miih  und  Zeit.  | 
Excusa  Maculas,  quas  aut  Incuria  Scribifi 
Fecit,  vel  Calamus  praecipitanter  arans;  | 
Nam  veniam  pro  Laude  peto,  laudatus  abunde, 
Non  fastiditus  si  tibi,  Lector  ero.  | 

adde  infra  pag.  7,  §  3,  and  pag.  i,  §  i,  3  &  4,  and  pag.  54  §  5. 

Read  Reader,  read  this  Book;  but  make  a  difference 
'Twixt  what  was  done  in  haste  &  what  with  Diligence.  ] 
Ne  sis  nimium,  nimiumq.  Severus; 


82  Pastorius*  Dee-Hive. 

Nam  quandoq.  bonus  dormitat  Homerus.  | 
Thou  find'st  ill-hammer'd  Rimes,  Homerus  sleeps  sometimes. 

Blockt   in   de  Boeken  vry,    Nocktans   met   dit   Befluyt   dat   ghy, 
gelyck  een  Bye  Wilt  Honigh  suygen  w  *  *  * 
Vale  piu  una  Pecchia  che  mille  masche. 

3.   Ad  Ledoran  Stomachosicm:  qui  est  Inimicus  et  hostis. 

Lis  mihi  Corrector,  resecando  superflua  Lector,  Veraq.  digneris,  q. 

desunt  jungere  Veri. 
Read  not  to  Contradict,  nor  to  Believe;  But  to  weigh  &  Consider 

Fr.  Bacon. 
Omnia  explorantes  Bonum  tenete,  i  Thess.  5:20. 
Sunt  Bona,  sunt  quaedam  Mediocria;  sunt  Mala  plura. 
Quae  legis  hie,  sic  fit,  Lector  inique.  Liber. 
Hier  ist  was  guts,  hier  ist  was  schlechts  ; 
Hier  ist  was  krums,  hier  ist  was  rechts  ;  | 
Hier  ist  was  Mittelmassigs  auch, 
Nach  aller  solcher  Biicher  brauch.  | 
Quod  tibi  displiceant  haec  Collectanea  nostra.  | 

Nil  moror,  aut  mirror;  Mel  sine  Felle  cupis.  | 
Wers  beszer  kan  dan  ich, 
Der  freue  Sich  in  Sich, 
Und  schone  dieser  Miihen.  j 
Wers  aber  nicht  Versteht, 
Urtheile  nicht,   es  geht 
Ihm  sonst  wie  jenem  Schuster.  | 

Auch  hinter  diesem  Tuch  Schiitzt  ein  Apell  disz  Buch.  | 
Malo,  meus  Codex  Tineas  ut  pascat  inertes,  Quam  te,  mellilegus, 
Mome  cacostomache.    | 
melancholice.  | 
He,  who  reads  to  grow  but  Bitter,   And  not  Better,  is  more  fitter 
For  to  be  a  Stockins-Knitter,  Or  to  drive  a  Cart  or  Litter, 
Than  to  play  the  Cushion-Sitter,  Ready  to  make  Authors  titter. 
Censor  iniquus  eorum,  quae  sapienter  herilem  (a  vitam) 
Ad  gnavi  saepe  Cleanthis  Sunt  lucubrata  Luce.  | 
Adde  infra  pag.  8  §  3  &  5,  and  pag.  i  §  3  &  4,  and  pag.  54,  §  4. 
This  English  Manuscript  in  folio  of  mine 
Is  better,  Zoilus,  than  any  one  of  thine:  | 
Thou  findest  fault  with  this,  And  art  thyself  amiss.  | 
When  thou  art  dead  and  gone  It  will  survive  thy  — s.  | 


M.  D.  Lear  tied.  83 

When  Cobblers  judge,   then  say, 

Calceolary  stay  ! 

You  never  will  be  what  I  am,  | 

Therefore  ne  ultra  Crepidam  ! 

Oh,  impudent  &  shameless  sham  !  j 

Booi  -j^oil'ikri^  oupoi  icatv  aiyidakoq  y.ai  \4'^fff>u'^7]. 

Acuti  Alvearis  Inspectores  Parus  &  Crabro.  j 

4.   The  Ear  trieth  words  as  the  Mouth  tasteth  Meat,  Job  34:3. 
Therefore  according  to  the  Apostle  Admonition,  i  Thess.  5:20. 
Prove  all  things:  hold  fast  that  which  is  good,  vide  infra  pag.  78. 

Let  not  anything  which  I  have  written  be  accepted  without  Trial, 
or  further  than  it  agreeth  with  the  Truth,  saith  Henry  Ainsworth 
in  an  appendix  to  his  Annot?  upon  the  5  books  of  Moses. 

And  so  say  I,  Come  Reader;   try.  What  Words  &  things  ensue: 
hold  fast  that  w^''  is  true,  j 

[Folzo  7  f] 
Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

HIS 

Hive,  Bee-stock, 

Melliotrophium. 

Alvear,  or, 

RuscA  Apum  &c  (  Vide  Num.  1015) 

See  pa^e  i,  54  &  55 

Begun  Anno  Doni,  Or  In  the  Year  of  Christian  Account 

CIOIOCXCVI.  MDCLXXXXVI  1696  &c.  &c. 

Which  plainly  shews,  that  >ve  may  word  a  thing  many  ways 

to  the  same  Intent. 
Add  the  Title-Page  of  my  Breviary  of  Arithmetick  in  4° 

2.   Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius  Osor  honoris, 
Osor  Luxuriae,  Corditus  Osor  opimi  \ 

De  hac  Idololatrica  Trinitate  Impiorum  (Pride,  Luxury  &  Avarice) 
Vide  infra  p.  81  §  24. 


84  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive. 

Honour,  Pleasure,  Earthly  Treasure; 

Or  what  else  Worlds-Fools  do  prize,   Is  disdained  by  the  Wise. 

I  John  2,  15. 
By  The  Lovers  of  true  Wisdom,  viz,  the  Wisdom  of  God,  Christ 

Jesus.      I  Cor.  16:  22,  &  i:  24. 
Whom  to  love  is  real  Philosophy ,  etc. 
Vivendi  &  Moriendi  Scientia.  Seneca. 

3.  He  that  hath  my  Commandments  (Saith  our  Saviour,  John  14,  21) 

and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth  me  :  (add  d.  c.  x  15  & 

15  &  10)  And  he  that  loveth  me,  shall  be  loved  of  my  Father, 

and  I  will  love  him,  &  will  manifest  myself  to  him. 
And  to  whom   Christ  manifests  or  reveals  himself,    he   it   is   that 

knoweth  him  ;  which  knowledge  is  Life  Eternal.     John  17,  3  ; 

I  John  5,  20.     &  in  regard  thereof  all  things  are  to  be  counted 

but  Loss  &  Dung.     Phil.  3.  8. 
To  him  all  the  Prophets  give  Witness,  Acts  10,  43,  &  the  Scriptures 

testifie  of  him,  John  5,  39,  for   that   end  &  purpose   that   we 

should  Come  to  him,  p.  40. 
Learn  of  him,  and  so  find  Rest  for  our  never  dying  Souls,  Matt. 

II,  29  ;  and  have  Life  more  abundantly,  John  10,  10  &  20,  31, 

viz.  that  we  should  know  him  greater  in  us,  than  he  that  is  in 

the  World,  ch.  4,  4. 
Binding  the  strong  man,  and  spoiling  his  good,  Matt.  12,  29. 
Saving  us  to  the  uttermost,  Heb.  7,  25,  and  to  be  all  in  all,  Col.  3,  11. 

4.  Faecunda  Alvus,  a  Rich  Stock. 

Alveus,  Alvear,  Alveare,  Alvearium,  Mellarium,  Mellitrophium. 
Apes  dant  Opes.  Ho7iey  brings  Money.  Varro  quotanis 
Alvearia  sua  locata  habebat  quinis  millibus  pondo  mellis,  5000 
lbs.    See  p.  85  &  53. 

5.  For  as  much  now  as  it  is  profitable  to  be  Indnstrions,  and  that  the 

hand  of  the  diligent  makes  Rich,  Prov.  10,  14,  etc.  Let  us 
spend  more  of  our  Time  in  Study  than  Idleness  ;  and  slip 
not  one  hour,  wherein  we  should  neglect  or  lose  any  Oppor- 
tunity to  lay  up  some  thing  in  Store  for  the  future.  Want, 
Use  or  Delight  both  of  our  own  Selves  &  of  our  Fellow- 
Mortals. 

Omnia  Conando  docilis  Solertia  vincit ;  Ergo  Nulla  dies  Sine 

Nulla  dies  abeat,  quin ducta  Supersit. 


iM.  D.  Learned.  85 

Count  that  day  spent  in  vain,  whose  Setting  Sun 
Views  from  thy  hand  no  \.ine,  nor  nothing,  run. 
Studium  &  Constantia,   Labor  &  Tolerantia  CoUigunt  ab  Infantia 
Docta  &  Elegantia  Lectorem  delectantia.  | 

6.  The  Bee  is  little  among  such  as  flie,  but  her  fruit  is  the  Chief  of 
Sweet  things.  Ecclesiasticus  11,  3.  Honey  s  good,  Prov.  24, 
13.  What's  Sweeter  than  honey,  Judges  14,  18.  Answ.  the 
Judgmt^  of  the  Lord,  Psal.  19,  9,  add  Psal.  119,  102,  103  for 
therewith  Zion  shall  be  redeemed,  Isa.  i,  27,  etc. 
John's  meat  was  Locusts  &  wild  honey,  Matt.  3,  4.  But  butter  & 
honey  shall  Imanuel,  Christ  Jesus  eat,  Isa.  7,  15,  and  everyone 
that  is  left  in  the  land.  Ibid  v.  22.     Add  Job  20,  17,  Cant.  5,  i. 

The  Contents  of  this  Manuscript  see  folio  post  Indicem,  ante  p.  !,-''■ 

F.  D.  P.  Favos  Diligentia  Parat  add  p.  55. 

IFolio  4  f] 

Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

HIS  Book  1696. 

I.  Nocturna  me  volve  manu,  me  volve  diurna  ; 

Stilla  cavat  lapidem.  Quid  non  Solertia  vincat. 

Saepe  legendo  multum  7ion  multa. 

Studium  et  Constantia  ^  A  Bee  may  gather  honey   and  a 

Lobor  &  Tolerantia  I       Spider   poison   from    the  same 

Collegunt  ab  Infantia  \      Flower. 

Docta  et  Elegantia  |       Duo  ciim  faciunt  idem,  non  est 

Lectorem  delectantia  J  idem. 

There  is  nothing  that  can  be  said  now,  that  has  not  been  said  before. 

2.   And  of  all  things  which  have  been  said  before  in  the  English  tongue, 
Thou  wilst  find  in  this  Manuscript  some  little  hint.  Pattern,  Model, 

Platform,  President,  Instance,  Ensample  or  Example,  etc. 
(No  Thought  can  form  with  Reason  what's  not  here  ; 
J  And  Since  Things  in  their  Native  Garb  appear, 
I  Thou  needst  not  take  this  Saying  upon  Trust ; 
(^Peruse  the  Book,  and  thou  wilst  find  me  just.     F.  D.  P. 


86  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive. 

Or  according  to  a  Sentence  of  S.  Austin  :  Ubi  amatur,  non  labora- 
tur,  Et  si  laboratur,  labor  amatur. 
3.   Where  Love  is,  there's  no  Labour  ;  and  if  there  be  Labour,  the 
Labour  is  loved. 

A  Bmiquier  of  other  men's  Imaginations.  | 
One  Line  is  fine,  the  Other  Course,  and  why? 
The  Pen  now  sharp,  then  dull,  the  Inkhorn  dry.  | 

Hie  Labor,  hoc  Opus  est;  Noveris  si  rectius  istis,  Candidus  imperti: 
Si  non,  his  utere  mecum. 


This  Book  seems  tall  and  small 
Of  no  Esteem  at  all ; 
Yet  I  would  very  fain 
That  any  who  doth  find 


— Deo— 
Redde  cuiq.  Suum. 


The  same,  would  be  so  kind  |  Mihi  Meum,  Tibi  Tuum , 

To   send   it   me    again.     Vide 


supra,  p.  I. 


J 


5-  Omne  tulit  punctum,  qui  miscuit  utile  dulci.  Horat. 

Ergo  Scripsit  Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius  horis 
Haec  succisivis  sua  Miscellanea,  quae  si 
Forsan  ei  rapies,  rapient  tua  Viscera  Corvi. 

Hie  liber  est  meus,  Abstine  manus  !  Ulciscitur  Deus  Pastorianus  ; 
Deus   Abrahami,    Isaaci    &  Jacobi.     Deus    Danielis,    etc.       Deus 
omnium  Fidelium. 

At  the  first  undertaking  of  this  Book  my  mean  Scope  was,  for  the 
future  Imitation  of  my  two  Sons,  onely  to  collect  Common  Proverbs, 
witty  Sentences,  wise  and  godly  Sayings,  with  the  like  substantial 
Marrow  of  other  Men's  Writings,  &c.     See  pag.  55. 

But  afterwards  considering  the  Copiousyiess  of  Words,  Phrases  & 
Expressions  in  the  English  (my  said  two  Sons  Country-language  ;  For 
seeing  I  and  my  wife  are  both  Germans,  I  dare  not  well  call  it  their 
Mother)-Tongue,  which  they,  if  possible,  should  perfectly  learn  To 
Read  &  Write,  and  to  Indite,  I  took  as  much  pains  &  patience  as  to 
Import  into  this  Alphabetical  Alvearium  all  &  Singular  Terms,  Idioms, 
manners  of  Stile  &  Speech  used  in  the  same.  Now  Inasmuch  the 
former  is  to  supply  the  place  of  honey,  so  these  latter  I  would  have  to 
be  accounted  if  not  for  wax,  yet  for  hive-dross,  &c.     See  pag.  seq. 


M.  D.  Learned.  87 

The  language  nowadays  spoken  in  Englajid  &  Colonies  thereunto 
belonging  is  not  the  ancient  Britan-Tongue,  No  not  the  least  Offspring 
thereof;  But  a  Mingle-mangle  of  Latin,  Dutch  &  French:  Relicks  or 
Remains  of  the  Roman,  Saxon  &  Norman  Conquests. 

Most  Mono  Syllables  are  of  a  Dutch  Origin,  ax,  ox,  fox.  Cow,  Corn, 
horn,  hard  drink,  spin  &c.  Words  of  many  syllables  are  either 
brought  in  by  the  Romans,  Multidude,  audacious,  implicate,  prudently. 

Or  by  the  Normans,  buckler,  strange,  dangerous,  delay,  advance, 
maintain,  &c.  And  besides  those  there  are  also  Hebrew,  Arabick, 
Greek,  Italian,  Spanish,  Danish  and  Welsh  words  in  the  said  English 
Tongue.     See  my  miscellany  Remarks  Concerning  it  pag.  151. 

Hence  it  is  that  when  other  Europians  cannot  deliver  their  minds 
but  by  expressing  one  thing  by  one  word  y^  English  may  do  it 
commonly  by  two  ;  Oftentimes  by  three  or  four  : — ex.  gv.  Spirit, 
Ghost,  grateful,  thankful,  alterable,  mutable,  changeable,  breadth, 
latitude.  Sepulchre,  tomb,  grave  :  a  Count,  Earl,  Grave.  Promote, 
advance,  further.  Remission,  Pardon,  Forgiveness,  bad,  ill,  naught. 
Impediment,  obstruction,  lett,  hindrance,  stop,  acquit,  exonerate, 
discharge,  free.  Congregation,  Meeting,  Gathering,  assembling.  Com- 
ing together.  &c.  More  Examples  the  hive  itself  furnisheth  almost  in 
every  Cranny  !  Therefore  ye  I.  S.  P.  and  H.  P.  for  whose  sake  it  is 
made,  Read  the  Same  Over  &  Over  &  Over,  But  not  overly  :  mind 
what  and  how  you  are  reading. 

Venturaeq.  hyemis  memores  aestate  Laborem  Ne  fugite  !  Et 
Quod  Natura  negat  Vobis  Industria  praestet.     F.  D.  P. 

\_FoHo  I  ?   new  mivibering  ?~\ 


I.  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

HIS  Alphabetical  Hive  I      or  Bee-Stock: 

OF  MORE  THAN  TWO  THOUSAND  HONEY-CoMBS,  (  RUSCA  APUM. 

BEGUN  IN  THE  YEAR  1696. 

I.  When  he  took  this  in  hand,  he  did  not  think  To  shew  to  any  man 
his  Paper  and  his  Ink  ;  His  only  Purpose  was  in  black  and  white 
With  his  two  litde  ones  (departing)  to  abide.  Nevertheless  this 
may  live  when  he  is  dead  ;  And  thus  he  leaves  it  to  the  perusing  of  his 
Readers  ;  not  caring  a  doit,  whether  they  will  like  or  dislike  it. 


88  Pastorms'  Bee-Hive. 

He  knows,  that  it  will  not  please  all,  and  doubts  not  but  it  will  please 
Some.  I  Quod  tibi  displiceant  quaedam  Proverbia  Lector  Nil  moror, 
aut  miror  ;  Mel  Sine  Felle  cupis. — Mel  nulli  sine  Felle  datur.  There 
is  hive-dross  on  all  the  Cranies  of  any  hive. 

Ubi  mel,  ibi  fel,  war  Keyser  Lothary  I  Synibolum. 

But  as  Bees  do  not  extract  the  Venom  of  herbs,  So  do  not  ye  wring 
out  the  dregs,  &c. 

Rather, — Behold,  how  Virgil  could  in  days  of  old  discover  gold  ] 
Among  the  mud,  dirt,  excrements  &  mould  of  Ennius'  dung-hill  more 
than  ordinary  foul'd.  |  And  so  in  Emptying  this  ray  hive,  I  would  all 
Bee-masters  or  honey-men  have  to  take  their  Choice.     Every  man 
what  he  pleaseth,  &c. 

herbalists 
Some  make  use  of  Books  as  Botanicks  of  Plants,  Commending  those 

above  the  rest  which  are  most  effectual   in   Physick  ;  Others    Gentle 

JVomen-Yike  delight  chiefly  in  those  which  smell  and  please  their  fancy 

best  ;  I  in  Reading  will  look  out  for  both,  viz.  :  wholsom  Precepts  & 

quaint  Expressions,  vide  page  ^^. 

Whereas  many  prefer  meer  Rick-shazvs  beyond  Solid  meats,  I  had 

rather  choose  to  set  before  them  the  dainties  of  other  men,  than  the 

course  food  of  mine  own. 

According  to  the  free  law  of  hospitality,  they  may  either 

Eat  heartily,  or  pick  a  Bone  :  Read  in  this  Book,  or  Let  alone.  | 

My  dishes  are  drest  not  as  a  feast  but  as  at  an  Ordinary,  nor  placed 

in  so  methodical  an  Order  as  they  might  have  been  ;  | 

I  taking  things  at  an  adventure,  so  as  they  happened  to  come  into 

hands,  &c. 

2.   As  soon  as  the  Weather  grows  more  warm, 

I  am  in  hopes  my  Bees  will  swarm,  | 

And  Tripartited  then  will  be 

And  this  their  Hive  no  less  than  Three.  | 

Whereof,  me  thinks.  Each  shall  contain 

The  things  1  here  in  Prose  explain.  [ 

The  First :  Variety  of  Words,  Phrases  Anglicisms.  Phraseology.  | 
The  Second  :  Verity  of  Common  Sayings  &  Proverbs.  | 
The  Third  :  Rarity  of  more  Important  Matters.  | 

These  things,  I  say,  they  may  Contain, 

Truth-loving-  Reader  in  the  mean  I 


M.  D.  Learned.  89 

Make  use  of  this  so  as  it  is  ; 
(For  I  am  troubled  when  I  miss)  | 
Of  good,  of  better  and  of  best — 

Thou  hast  thy  Choice,  Excuse  the  Rest.     So  be  it.     A7nen.  \ 
Then  the  2000  and  odd  Titles  Comprized  in  this  Book  will  be  written 
in  a  Black  Character  or  Old  English  Letters. 

3.  If  in  this  Folio  some  lines  be  found, 

Which  seem  not  right,  not  orthodox  nor  sound  ;  | 

Pray  !  be  so  kind,  so  Cortcous  and  so  fair 

To  pass  them  by,  till  things  appear  more  clear.  | 

Sis  mihi  Corrector,  resecando  superflua  Lector  ;  Veraq.  digneris 
quaedesuntjungere  Veris.  |  Multumenimadhucrestat  opera,  multumq. 
restabit ;  Neq.  ulli  nato  post  mille  Secula  [after  100,000  years]  |  prae- 
cludetur  Occasio  aliquid  adjiciendi  !     Seneca  Epist.  64. 

Adjice  Tu  nostris  igitur,  superadjice  nostris;  sic  qui  vix  Liber  est, 

grande  Volumen  erit. 
Nulla  dies  abeat,  quin  Linea  scripta  supersit,  Et  sic  Codiculus  fiet 

Amice  Liber. 

*  *  >t:  =i^  *  t-  * 

Go  Sluggard  !  go,  learn  of  the  Ant, 
To  gather  food  for  time  of  Want ;  Prov.  6:6.  | 
Of  Bees  returning  to  their  hive 
Learn  in  Collecting  how  to  thrive.  | 
Ass,  Ox  and  horse  with  greater  Sort 
Teach  thee  the  knowledge  of  thy  Lord.    Isa.  i  :3.  | 
Without  the  which  thou  wilt  be  worse, 
Than  Ant  &  Bee,  Ass,  Ox  and  horse.  |  \^Ps.  32:9.  | 

even  as  a  Mule,  whose  mouth  must  be  held  in  with  bit  and  bridle, 
Cur  nihil  addis  iners  his  nostris  cur  nihil  infers  ?     Odit  ut  expertes 

Liber  hie.  Sic  odit  inertes.  | 
Adde  parum  parvo;  Parvo  super  adde  pusillum, 
Tempore  non  longo  Librum  complebimus  ilium.  | 
Not  so  completely,  no;  but  still  [for  thus  I  mean,] 
Poor  Ruth  finds  liberty  in  Boaz's  fields  to  glean.  | 
The  moral  of  the  industrious  Bee,  viz.  Cull  what  we  find  best,  Athen. 
Oracle  p.  43. 

Posito  Livore,  Candido  Animo  ad  haec  legenda  accedas. 


90  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive. 

4.  Si  nihil  hie  discas,  temet  culpaveris  Ipsum ;  Nam  Praeceptores  mille 
Libellus  habet. 

*  :^  *  *  *  *  * 

Dulcia  Si  quis  amas,  Liber  hie  tibi  duleia  praebet;  Utile  Si  mavis, 

utilitate  valet. 
Si  quis  utrumq.  voles,   ubieunq.  ministrat  utrumq. ;    Sin  neutrum, 

neutrum  dat  quoq.  Clausus. 
Abi  in  re?n  Tuavi,  Viam  Tuam,  aiit  si  vialis^  rem  vialam. 
Seripserunt  aly  nobis,  nos  Posteritati,  Sie  prius  aeeeptum  reddimus 

offieium. 
Tu  quicunq.  voles  non  dediseenda  doeeri,  Quaeq.  luvabit  abhinc  te 

meminisse  Senex. 
Non  chartae  tantum,  sed  Cordi  Carmina  mandes  Inelyta  Majorum, 

doetaq.  dieta.  Vale.  F.  D.  P. 

Wo  Honig  ist,  da  sind  aueh  Bitterkeiten; 
Wo  Freiiden  sind,  da  folget  aueh  das  Leiden. 

Nemo  per  me  eogitur  plus  sapere  quam  velit,  inqt.   Erasmus 

Rot.  in  Epist.  ad  Marcum  Laurium. 

{^Folio  S4  ] 

MelliotropJmim  Apiculcs  Gerinanopolita7i(z .     F.   D.   P. 
Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius  Alvear  istud  Condidit,  Ergo  suae  Poste- 

ritatis  erit. 
Posteritatis  erit  Pastori,  siqua  superstes,  sin  orbus  post  hae,  Orbis 

habeto  favos.  * 
Est  prius  in  votis,  ast  haee  suprema  Voluntas,  Vota,  Voluntatem  subdo 

Jehova  Tibi. 
Velle  Tuum,  non  Velle  meum  fiat  sanetissime  Jesu  ! 
Fae  tamen,  ut  quod  vis  id  simul  ipse  velim.  j 
Fae,  precor,  ut  nostrum  velle  sit  harmonicum.     F.  D.  P. 
*  Who  may  aeeording  to  his  good  pleasure  either  suppress  it,  or  send 

it  to  the  Press. 


M.  D.  Learned.  91 

IFolio  ss'] 
Francis  Daniel  Pasiorius 

HIS 

Hive  or  Bee  stock 

Containing  above  two  thousand  little  Honey-Combs; 

Begun  in  the  year  1696 

And  continued  for  the  use  of  his  Children. 

After  I  had  collected  Two  Volunis  of  delightful  Proverbs,  witty 
Sentences,  wise  and  godly  Sayings  ;  Comprizing  for  the  most  part 
necessary  &  profitable  Caveats,  Advises,  Doctrines  &  Instructions  ; 
out  of  many  Authors  of  many  minds  &  different  Opinions,  not  only 
in  my  Mother-Tongue,  but  likewise  in  the  Low-Dutch,  French,  Italian 
and  Latin  which  both  Books  in  4°  are  still  with  me.  For  the  better 
learning  of  the  English,  and  that  my  two  Sons  (who  probably  will 
never  attain  to  the  Understanding  of  the  said  Languages)  might 
hereafter  have  some  of  their  Fathers  Steps,  thereby  to  be  guided  to 
the  same  Diligence  &  Assiduity  of  Picking  the  Best  out  of  good 
Writings,  I  endeavoured  at  Spare-times  to  make  this  present  Hive  on 
a  Quire  of  fine  Paper,  which  a  Friend  of  mine  {^Jacob  Telhier'\  depart- 
ing for  Europe  did  give  me  ;  And  when  allover  filled  up  with  honey- 
combs, I  was  Constrained  to  enlarge  my  Hive  with  more  courser, 
homely  or  home-spun  Stuff  of  this  Country-Product.  Thus  I  leave 
it  for  the  Perusing  of  those  for  whom  it  was  contrived  in  the  first 
beginning  thereof;  Nevertheless  If  any  other  besides  them  should 
happen  to  be  benefitted  by  these  Miscellanies,  It  will  not  sad,  but  glad 
my  heart. 

Nam  Prodesse  volo  cunctis,  nulliq,  Nocere  • ")    p    d    p 

Semper  amare  bonos,  et  tolerare  malos.        | 

As  for  my  performance  herein  I  could  heartily  wish  it  might  prove 
to  all  honest  peoples  good  liking. 


92 


Pastoriiis'  Dee-Hive. 


INDEX    SEQO:    METRORUM. 


A  Book  without  a  Table 
A  Ship  that  wants  a  Cable 
A  Horse  that  has  no  Stable 
A  misapplied  Fable 
A  Man  unreasonable 
For  what  may  they  be  able? 
Answ. — For    Little    or 
Nothino;. 


Arithmetick  55,  71 
abuse  369 
— ation  82 
ABC  of  herbs  95 

"'       Biblicalnarnes44r 
Amaradulcis  102,  190,  234 
Corn.  Agrippa,  117 
Almanacks  119,  122 
Queen  Anne  124,  371,  440, 

473 
Anemone  144 
to  have  all  155 
garden  arts  20S 
Abraham  238 
autumn  245 
ana,s.^rafns  24S 
alms  255 
artichocus  260 
Ammi  282 
ash  tree  284 
antipathy  299,  144 
April's  frost  349 
Ainsworth's  annotations 

.346 
Arrival  in  Penn  Sylvania 

359 
always  362 

all,  some,  none  367,  368 
ass  388 

almust  Christian  395 
Abigail  421 
address  of  the  Seamen  436 

Babel  341 
Baliance  33,  113 
books  35,  395,  443 
Book-owners  35,  395,  443 
Barclay  42,  342 
Bees  53,  70,  75,  126,  198, 
320.  365 


Bible  conion  plac'd  83 
beauty  147,  253,  409 
God's  blessing,  148 
beet  182 

bleeding  heart  238 
brethren  239,  374 
baytree  242 
box-tree  242 
burning  of  books  249 
Bible  265,  434 
bishop's  weed  2S2 
Sweet  Basilius  289 
M.  J.  Bauerin  345 
burials  370 
brevity  373 
brass  388 
John  Brevis  404 
Bellis  423 

Matthias  Bauman  453 
Rich.  Baker  464 

Culpeper's  Moons  &  Lion 

428 
Index  491 
Cambridge  425 
Christ  21 
Christians  8,  36,  244,  388, 

452,  474 
Churn  375 
Clock     13 
Cross  19,  268 
Canticum  39 
Conscience  43 
Coornhert  46 
Custom  50 
Contempt  of  the  World  64, 

100,  335 
Cul-me-to-you  157,  233 
Cowslips  164 
Catmint  174 
Coloquintidas  185 
Creator  &  Creatures  227, 

335 
Cares  244 

carduus  benedictus  264 
Crown  268 
Cabbage  271 
chamomil  281 
Cedar  307 


Columbines  323 

LXIIl  Climacterick  352 

Chemarims  363 

Elisha  Coles  364 

Concordance  366 

Christ's  Comandm'ts  381 
"       Doctrine  471 

Church  of  England  383, 
425. 

Conviction  and  Conver- 
sion 3S9 

Bp.  of  Cork  397,  398 

Common  prayer  455,  456 

Disputes  7,  38 

Death  18.  219,  257,  448 

dinner  of  herbs  28 

french  Dream  loi  ; 
at  Woodstock  440 

Delight  142 

Disorder  143 

Darkness  470 

Dogs  tongue  152 

garden-dog  154.  209 

delay  of  Amendm't  218 

herbs  are  Doctors  233 

dettowring  259 

dying  prayer  315 

Dove  320 

Dog  378 

Daffodil  318 

Christ's  Drink  326 

herbal  Dialogue  337 

Dorcas  339 

Dream  of  three  black 
dogs  360  ;  at  Wood- 
stock 440 

Dictionaries  364 

D'Foe  365 

Debt  367,  368 

John  Denham  376 

Dying  in  the  Lord  380 

difference  between  brass 
and  gold  38S 

dragon  34 

Dying-prayer  401 

Daisies  423 

Dancing  430 

Devil  439 


This  Index  precedes  the  Silvula  in  the  MS. 


Eternity  15,  121 

my  Epitaph  17,  99 

Eng:lish  tongue  52 
"        latin  rime  330 
"        pronunciation  276 
"        thanks  265 
"        gentlemen  261 
"        Doctors  271 

education  58 

Epitaphs  113 

Echo  153 

elicampane  179 

envy  195 

emblems  241,  248,  323,  341 

experience  247 

evergreen  242,  258 

Esche  284 

ejaculations  309,  etc. 

elm  319,  406 

Ebesham  Salt  379 

Ethiopians  462 

Extortioners  474 

Fear  of  Death  452 

Fear  of  God  26,  49,  55,  228 

Forms  for  Clerks  74 

Fate  197 

Faith  457 

fruitfulness  139,  215,  418 

Friihling  231 

fornication  259 

french  demoiselle  261 
"       marigolds  262 

fence  269 

flesheaters  271 

fall  305,  etc. 

Fall  vide  Autumn 

Food,  good  and  bad  369 

false  world  320 

Christ's  feasting  and  fast- 
ing 326 

Filipendula  335 

Fig-tree  433,  437 

Flageolet  338 

April's  frost  349 

Faith  only,  but  not  alone 
346 

St.  Francis  planting  Cab- 
bages 355 

Fear  no  man  357,  402 

Flight  377,  394 

Follow  Christ  381,  392 

Faith  &  patience  392 

Far-fetch'd  physick  405 

Garden  93,  133,  139,  207, 
215,  223,  246,  320,  384 
garlick  299 


M.  D.  Learned. 

gilli  flow'rs  170 
garden  ground  200 
dog  154,  209 

"       Sentinel  206 

"       tricks  208 
great  men  214,  305,  306 
God  a  husbandman  221 
gourd  222 
God's  goodness  229,  232, 

243,  359 
God's  providence  244 

"       power  464 
gardener  340 
gold  358,  388 
great  men  oppress  369 
George  Lodowick.King  of 

Great  Britain  371,  440 
Grudge  374 
good  men  375 
Nehem.  Grew  379 
good  works  380 
godliness  390 
Glanvil's  Saduc.   triumph 

438 

H.  vide  post  Z  nam  Grae- 
cis  non  est  litera 

Jesus  24,  320 

Idol's  names  103 

compleat  Justice  48 

Je  langer,  je  lieber  102,  235 

Innocency  103 

Judge  120 

Jacob's  pillow  137 

Italick  verses  152 

Jerusalem  bliimlein  159 

Interest  205,  393 

Jonas's  gourd  222 

Joseph  239 

Job's  tears  240 

St.  James'  and  John's  wort 

265 
Doctor  Isamiss  272 
111  married  for  once  351 
Indebted  367 
If— But  369 
Inn-keeper  378 
Jest  379 
Impatience  391 
Ideae  platonicae  422 

Knowledge  of  X  st.  22,  23, 

424,  472 
Klapperrosen  192 
Kings'  maners  214 
Kikajon  222 
book-knowledge  247 


93 

Kiss  254 

King  William's  Crown 

297  :.:.:. 

God's  Kingdom  325 
VV.  Chr.  Krieg«man  454 

L.358 

epistola  Laconica  324 

Love  9.  38,  224,  432 

little  suffices  29,  298,  320 

looking  glass  30 

my  Library  34 

Leaven  63 

Light  470 

Dan  Leeds  66,  465 

L' Estrange  72,  80. 

loom  81 

Liberty  of  Conscience 

382 
D.  LI.,  88,  114,  199,  307 
Lending  92,  248 
Lawyers  114,  334 
Lavender  175 
Hllies  of  the  valley   iSo, 

280 
Ladies'  thistles  186 
Lavender  Cotton  1S8 
Lent  246 
Lovage  286 
Louis  le  Grand  411 
Like  father— Son  290 
Loose  strife  291 
most  land  298 
John  Locke  422 
labyrinth  320 
Lillies  317 

Titan  Leeds  351,  465 
J.  A.  Lietzheimer's, 

ashamed  Christiai]  344 
Thomas  Lloyd  359,  372, 

396,  467 
Lust  of  the  flesh,  etc.  419 

Month's  days  5,  56,  59 

moon  60 

masonry  125 

many  minds  141,  145,  16S 

mixture  143 

mongrels  151 

many  have  not  all  155 

mullein  158 

maravillas  de  Peru   166, 

203,  210 
sweet  Maudlin  169 
mag  saamen  172 
spear  Mint  173 
Mayen  bliimlein  180 
mulberries  184 


94 


Pastorius'  Bee-Hive. 


melons  194 
masters  204 
meditations  226 
medicine  257,  405 
marriage  260,  336,  351 
marigolds  262 
melancholy  thistle  288 
Aian  304 
manna  310 
mustard-seed  325 
master  &  Servant  at  once 

361 
Malabar-Missionanes  363 
misspending  369 
Matthew  Meade  388 
milk-herbs  403 
march-frost  410 
Maintenon  411 
Mother-Church  425 
meetings  450,  469 

"        private  454 
mysteries  457 

Neighbourhood  138,  144 

narrow  paths  145 

nature  help'd  151,  208 

Narcissen  160 

Nelcken  170 

Negro's  204,  462 

Isaac  Norris  248 

Nettles  287 

Mary  Norris  359,  369 

Neither  Master  nor  Servant 

361 
Never  362 

S.  Ns,  Concordance  366 
biblical  Names  441 
my  Nurse:  my  wife  449 
Negro-troublers  474 

Outward    appearances   37, 

171 
opinion  50 
own  138 
order  144 
one  three  233 
olive  tree  242 
orpine  258 

old  people's   marriage  336 
To  Griffith  Owen  352,  379, 

466 
blind  Obedience,  355,  404 
often  362 
one  pound  378 
old  age  400,  423 
ow  for  Own  432 
owner  of  a  book  443 


Griffith  Jones  [?] 

my  Physician  goes  &  stays 

45 1 
Rachel  Preston  426 
Peace  415 

Preface  i,  2,  4.     N.  B.  120 
private  life  29,  85,  223 
"      meetings  454 
pocket  book  44 
punish'mt  49 
priests  51,  234,  334,  363 
promise  69,  150 
posts  84 

plantation  86,  90 
Plato  422 
prayer  87,   in,    139,  224, 

310,320,401,  447 
patience  91,  96,  201,   382, 

391,  292 
paym't  92,  368 
praise    the    Lord  94,  140, 

149,  207,  212,  309,  442, 

445,  448 
I.  S.  P.,  and  H.  P.  118 
poetry  120 
pillow  136,  137 
prolixity  373,  394 
profit  142 

Persian  turbant  161 
poppy  172 
persecution  382 
parsly  181 

physician  197,  257,  334 
purslane  199 
brave  planters,  220 
paradise  225,  93,  250,  384 
spiritual  plants  228 
paradoxon  232,  367 
palmtree  242 

God's  providence  244,  307 
pastime  251 
St.  Peter's  wort  265 
phlegm  446 
popery  264,  266,  399 
plantain  285 
polion  301 

poor  men's  burials  370 
pride  253,  304 
periwinkle  332 
preachers  334,  461,  469 
pipe  338 

piety  possible  348,  387 
Rachel  Preston  359,  396 
William    Penn    359,    372, 

397,  398 
proselyte  363 
painters  and  poets  376 
penal  Laws  &  Tests  382 


strange  planting  355,  404 
private  meetings  454 
publick  prayers  455 

Questions  &  Answers  243 
Quitrent  256 
yueen's  delight  297,  321 
Quakers  460 

Rachel's  Pillar  426 

to  ye  Reader  6,  103,  120 

resurrection  16 

rules  40,  98, 107,  etc.,  217, 
270 

recreation  142 

ranunculus  144 

roses  144,  193,  267,  299, 
302,  409 

rue  176 

rose  of  sharon  93,  213 

root  out  217,  282 

rosemary  237 

riddle  241 

ravishing  259 

rosaclear  267 

Romish  Church  289 

rounceval  337 ;  in  margine 

reading  of  the  h.  Scrip- 
tures 347 

release  to  my  drs.  368 

rich  men  make  poor  369 

rich  men's  burials  370 

reconciliation  374 

rest  384 

Carew  Reynel  393 

Jos.  Georg.  Rosenbach 
420,  429 

regeneration  453 

book  of  Revelations  459 

Self-love  26 
sobriety  27 
slate  31 

heavenly  Secrets  457 
stove  32,  303 
scales  33,  115 
scribblers  45 
sleep  54,  116,  427 
Sun  61,  232 
Seneca  72 
Sabbath  89 
Season  14S,  149,  245 
Sperage  163 
Schneetropflein  165 
spearmint  173 
sage  177 

southern  wood  187 
stove  196 


M.  D.  Learned, 


95 


servants  204,  361 
sentinel  206 
rose  of  Sharon  93,  213 
sun  dial  216 
Stars  230 
Spring  231.  245 
Strawberries  241,  277 
Sumer  245,  374 
Sweet  herbs  263 
Sengreen  276,  390 
Soiiewendt  283 
Spinage  290 
Speedwell  292 
Scorzonera  293,  435 
Saffron  296,  318 
Scent  to  mend  299 
Soiiloquium  308 
Self  denial  320 
Self-guilty  326 
Senses  corporeal  &  spirit- 
ual 333,  447 
Scolding  by  herbal  names 

337 

Don  Saavedra  341 

Swimming  a  necessary  art 
350 

Sin  the  cause  of  Calami- 
ties 349 

Self  murther  352 

Sometimes  362 

Serviceable  Concordance 
366 

Salt  379 

Sell  all  3S1 

Short-hand-writing  3S5 

Ship- mate-ship  359,  396 

Sailors'  Address  436 

the  Author's  Sickness  100 
315.  352,  445 

Sin-less  453 

Sermons  461 

Slavery  463,  471,  474 

Transitories  ir,  65,  121, 
146,  219,  252,  330 

trinitas  idolatrica  25 

tale  bearers  44 

tribut  57 

time  65,  67,  91,  96,  272, 
387,  408 

Wm.  Temple  80 

Turkish  Spy  80 

Types  89 

truckle  bed  136 

flower  of  trinity  157 

tag  und  nacht  157 

tausendschon  162 

"       gulden  kraut  162 


Tulipan  163,  202,  339 
Tobacco  167 

pipe  33S 
turmerick  183 
thistles  264 

— add  Ladies-Melancholy 
translations  213 
three  one  233 
turnips  247 
thankfulness  254,  418 
Trust  in  the  Lord  258 
thorns  267,  287 
true  love  274 
tuberose  275 
turnsole  283,  412 
tree  of  good  &  bad  300 
tree  of  life  301 
thoughts  322,  325,  354 
trees  whereby  known  328 
translations  341 
Thorn.  Tress  353 
John  Tomkins  387,  416 
tearing  of  books  395 
Truth^397,  398 
Nepht.  Turner  413 

[add  p   70,  2nd  I.] 
Wm.  Tomlinson  417 
Tortoise  Shell  431 
Tuscarora  rice  435 

Vrania  10 

Union  with  X'st  20 

unity  38 

usury  85,  205,393,  471,474 

violets  191,  280 

vines  198,  319,  406 

Vergissmeinnicht  236 

many  Verses  in  one  252 

unthankfulness  256 

victory  268 

Vinca  pervinca  332 

unequal  marriages  336 

Virgil  338 

vertue  390,  408 

Vine  407 

Valiere  411 

day  of  Visitation  416,  417 

Gisb.  Voetius  455 

World  II,  12,  250,  320,  335, 

350.  358,  375 
watch,  uhrvverck  13 
woman  14,  102,  16S,  299 
writing  57,  71 
weather  6r 
wickedness  62 


weaving  8r 
welcome  134,  372 
wormwood  187 
winds  216 

winter  239,  245,  374 
wild  herbs  273 
white  Lillies  278,  279 
way-bread  285 
wishing  to  die  314 
water  good  drink  326 
old  Widows  336 
weeds  354,  419 
William  Sweet  168 
God's  Will  be  done  400 
witchcraft  43S 
waiting  on  God  450 
Joh.  Winckler  454 
Wolf  468 

Yellow  rose  171 

Zoilum  3.  195,  211 
Zoct's  Wint.  Evenings  47 
Zaccheus  313 

Hypocrisie  37,  287 

hatred  374 

hymn  39 

honey  53 

husbandry  86,  220,  386 

hell  121  ;  in  fine  464 

hearts  ease  157,  233,  294, 
_32o 

Himelroslein  159 

hj'ssop  1 78 

goodhenry  168 

hops  189 

herbs  are  teaching  233 

Hiobsthriinen  240 

heartichokes  260 

horns  267 

housleek  276 

homely  bodies,  comely 
Souls  285 

hazlenuts  295 

haiiover  371 

hart  320 

hunger  326 

herbal  Courting  337 

the  hundredthst  339 

hen  pens.  pag.  135 

hens  343 

heathens  ashame  Chris- 
tians 344 

Hannah  Hill  359, 396,  45S 

heavenly  Secrets  457 

hirelings  363 


96  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive, 


SIIvVULA   RHYTMORUM   GERMANOPOLITANORUM 

F.  D.  P. 


Stat  animi  Sententia  hunc  Librum  tripartiri  ; 
&  Carmina  sequentia  Amicis  elargiri,  | 
Ut  possint  ilia  legere  Germ  :  Angli  &  Latini  ; 
Silentem  Vitam  degere  Est  moris  pecorini,  &c.  | 

2. 
Den  leiiten  dieser  Welt  Vergleich  ich  meine  Schrift, 
Bey  welchen  man  Viel  Wort,  u.  wenig  Witz  antrift.  | 

3. 
Verachtestu  disz  buch,  Ey  doch  Verwirfs  nicht  gar  ; 
Jch  schrieb  es  meistentheils  wan  ich  noch  schlafrig  war,  | 

4. 
Dass  Hans  Milan  hier  war,  Verspiihrt  man  den  baiimen 
Die  er  zum  theil  gelallt,  zum  theil  gepflantzet  hat,  | 
Damit  die  Nach-Welt  nun  an  solcher  Arbeit  stat 
Von  mir  auch  was  empfang,  so  fang  ich  an  zu  Reimen  ;  ] 
Und  schreibe  solche  Ding  die  dem  Gemiith  gesund  ; 
DarT  Hansens  baum-gewachs  sind  eintzig  vor  den  mund.  | 

5- 
Wie  viel  tag  Jeder  Monat  habe  : 

Ein  und  Dreiszig  ins  gemein 

Auszer  Zwey  Vier,  Sieben  Neiin  ;  | 

Ap. ,  Jun.,  Sept.,  Nov.  und  der  letzt  hat  Zwantzig  acht, 

Darmit  ist  ds  Jahr  Vollbracht.  | 

The  2d  &  the  4th,  the  7th  &  the  9th  have  thirty  days, 

All  the  rest,  save  the  last,  thirty  one  allways.  | 

The  last  called  February,  hath  but  28  and  on  the  Bissextile 

or  Leap-year  29  days.  | 
Totus  sic  vertitur  annus.     See  Num.  56,  &  59,  &  68. 


M.  D.  Learned.  97 

6. 
Ad  Leciorem  propitium  : 

Carmina  quando  vocas  mea  mi  lectissima  Lector, 

Creditur  ;  Jn  lecto  plurima  composui.  | 

Obtrectatori  : 

Judice  non  opus  est  nostris  nee  Vindie  rhytmis. 

Judex  &  Vindex,  si  sapis,  esto  Tibi,  | 

7. 
Die  gern  mit  disputiren  ihr  theiire  Zeit  verlieren,  sind  Narren, 

Prov.  20  :  3. 
Weise  leiit  Vermeiden  alien  Streit.     Cor.  11  :  16. 

8. 

A  Christian  helps  ev'ry  man  as  much  he  can. 

9- 
How  happy  could  men  be  in  all  their  Course  of  life, 
If  they  did  strive  to  love,  as  they  do  love  to  strive.  \ 
Wie  klUglich  kofiten  wir,  Ja  gliicklich  allhier  leben, 
Wann  Lieben  uns  so  lieb  wolt  seyn  als  Widerstreben  ! 

10. 
Quod  Salva  sis  Britannia,  Dein  Wohfart  grosz  Britannien 

Oubd  crescas  Pennsilvania,  Dein  Wachsthum  Peiisilvanien,  | 

Quod  Superes  Albania,  |  Dein  Schutz  u.  Schirm  Albanien, 

A  Domo  est  Urania,  Komt  samtlich  von  Uranien.  | 

a-Ko  rod  Oupavoo  Regit  et  Tegit  omnia  Coelum.  | 
Hoc  etiam  si  quid  Veri  mens  augurat,  inter  hos  motus 
Orbis  nos  reget  atqu.  teget.  | 

II. 
Cuncta  sunt  horaria,  multaqu,  nefaria,  quae  sunt  in  hoc  mundo  ; 
Ista  qui  non  despicit,  nee  aeterna  respicit  par  est  furibundo. 
Wir  saint  allem  was  wir  thun,  nehmen  doch  behend  ein  End, 
Wohl  uns  !  Wan  der  Hochste  Gott  solches  gut  zu  seyn  Verlehnt. 
Ergo  Quicquid  agis  (breve  Tempus  !)  respice  Finem. 

12. 
The  Revolutio7i  or  Chmigeable  Course  and  Recourse  of  this  prese7it 
World,  viz*  all  Empires,  Kingdoms  and  Provinces  thereof;  Yea  of  all 
particular  Inhabitants  of  the  same,  prefigured  in  a  Wheele  of  Seven 
Spokes,  called  Omnium  Rerum  Vicissitudo. 


'  Here  the  MS.  has  a  circle,  divided  into  seven  segments,  designated  as  follows 
I,  Poverty  ;  2,  Lowliness ;  3,  Peace  ;  4,  Traffic  ;  5,  Wealth  ;  6,  Pride  ;  7,  War. 


98  Paslorius'  Bee-Hive. 

Haec  Rota,  Circulat  Orbem.     Eunt  hoc  ordine  Fata. 
War  is  ordain' d  for  nothing  else  but  Peace, 
Peace  follows  always  when  the  wars  do  cease.  | 

In  diesem  Rad  wird  uns  gezeigt, 

Wie  eines  aus  dem  andern  steigt.  , 

Wohl  dem  !  Der  Sich  Zu  aller  Zeit 

Fest  halt  an  die  Demiithigkeit 

War  begets  Poverty,  Poverty  Peace 
Then  people  will  traffic  &  Riches  increase 
Riches  produceth  Pride,  Pride  is  War's  ground 
War  begets  Poverty,  So  we  go  round. 

En  Dieu  seul  je  me  confie, 
Car  au  monde  n'est  que  folic.  | 

Sub  dio  nil  diu.     Der  Werelts  goedt  is  Ebb  'en  Vloet. 
II  mondo  e  fatto  a  Scale,  Chi  le  scende,  e  chi  le  sale. 

Op  d'aerd,  al  schyntse  vast,  gegront 
Noyt  eenig  mensch  gerustheyt  vont ;  | 
Maer  in  den  hemel  sal  nae  desen, 
Schoon  dat  hy  draeyt,  eens  Ruste  wesen.  | 

In  der  Welt  gehts  auf  und  nieder 
Alles  iindert  in  der  Eil  ;  | 
Wer  empor  komt,  fallt  auch  wieder, 
Steht  Er  schon  ein  kleine  weil.  j 
Drumb  Verlaiigne  ich  die  Welt, 
Weil  zu  fallen  mir  misztallt.  | 

Bey  meineni  Uhr-werck  : 

Vive  memor  mortis,  fugit  irreparabile  Tempus  more  fluentis  aquae. 
Windgeschwind  vergeht  die  Zeit, 
Mensch  !  mach  dich  zum  Tod  bereit, 
und  denck  an  die  Ewigkeit.  | 

De  Tyt  is  cort ;  de  Doot  comt  snel  ; 
Maekt  u  gereet,  so  doet  ghy  wel 
't  Zy  vroegh  of  spaet,  Doet  goet  Laet  quaet.  | 
Quota  sit  hora  patet,  latet  ultima,  respice  Finem.  | 
En  regardant  quelle  heure  il  est, 
Pense  ala  Mort  &  t'y  tiens  prest.  | 


M.  D.  Learned.  99 

Some  hours  are  past,  Some  passings  fast,  Think  at  the  last. 

For  Wisdom  begins  at  the  End;  &  t'is  better  to  prevent  than  to  repent. 

It  becomes  wise  men  to  look  before  they  leap  ;  To  fear  the  worst  and 

hope  the  best. 
Those  that  put  to  Sea,  prepare  for  a  Storm,  be  it  at  present  never  so 

calm. 

Alles  mit  Bedacht  Lasz  nicht  aus  der  Acht. 
Vigilate,  Quia  nescitis  Diem  neque  Horam. 

Ferner  an  gedachtem  Uhrwerck  : 

Motibus  arcanis.     Chieto  fuori,  Commoto  dentro.  ] 

Ein  Christ  gleicht  einer  Uhr  ;  Sein  Zeiger  kan  nicht  gehen, 

Wann  Gotts  bewegungen  in  Ihme  stille  stehen.  | 

Redimentes  Tempus,  quoniam  dies  mali.  | 

Auch  bose  Zeiten  sind  dem  guten  Menschen  gut, 

Weil  niemals  boses  Er  :  und  boses  ihm  nichts  thut.  | 

Er  fuhrt  durch  beedes  Gliick  all  Zeit  nur  einen  Muth.  | 

14. 
Diewiel  die  Welt  aus  nichts  gemacht, 
so  nennt  man  sie  auch  nichtig  ;  | 
Der  Mann  aus  Erden  fortgebracht 
heiszt  Irdisch  Sofern  richtig.  | 
Das  Weib  formirt  aus  einem  bein, 
musz  darumb  auch  ja  beinern  (peinend)  seyn. 

Schau  diesen  Cirkel  an,  das  bild  der  Ewigkeit, 

Da  Anfang,  Mitt  und  End  ist  sender  Unterscheid  ; 

Auch  merck  zu  deiner  Lehr  hier  kiirtzlich  angedeiit 

Zweii  Wortgen :  Meid  und  Leid  !  Wodurch  insonderheit 

Du  den  bestimmten  Streit,  mit  Teiifel,  Welt  u.  Fleish  ; 

Und  was  dein  Heyl  bereidt  [ 

Kanst  kampfen  Ritterlich  :  und  waiii  nach  dieser  Zeit 

Der  Herr  austheilt  die  Beiit  | 

Seyn  fahig  und  bereit 

Sarht  alien  Siegenden  auf  Seiner  Rechten  Seit  | 

Zu  tragen  Palm  und  Cron  in  Ew'ger  Himmels-F"reiid.  | 

Prsestant  Sterna  Caducis. 

Non  hie  expecto,  sed  imposterum,  Thomas  de  Kempis. 

Sint  Temporalia  in  usu  yEterna  in  desiderio.  Idem.  | 


TOO  Pas  tortus*  Bee-Hive. 

Mein'  Lohn  will  ich  im  Himelreich,  nicht  auf  der  Erd  empfangen  ; 
Brauch  ich  das  Zeitlich,  so  ist  doch  das  Ewig  mein  Verlangen. 

Non  est  Mortale  quod  opto.  | 

Elige  Vixisse  Semel,  Perysse  semel  Sternum  est. — Augustin. 

Wie  der  Rauch  vergeht  disz  Leben, 
Mensch  !  Setz  deine  rechnung  eben  ;  | 
Und  stirb,  eh'es  koriTt  zum  Sterben. 
Dass  du  frey  sey'st  voni  Verderben.  | 

Verte  sex  folia,  &  lege  Sub  dio  nil  diu. 

i6. 
Resiirgam,  totus  mutatus  ab  illo.     Mea  Spes  post  Fata  superstes. 
Wiewohl  der  Tod  in  stiicker  bricht, 
Disz  sterblich  Haus  der  Erden  ; 
So  stirbt  doch  meine  Hoft'nung  nicht  | 
Dasz  mir  einst  werde  werden 

Auffs  neiie  Eines  zugericht  befreyet  von  beschwerden. 
Hoc  spero,  Hue  adspiro. 

17. 
F.  D.  P.  Epitaphium. 
Christ  came  &  suffered  for  me,  to  Save 
Mine  In-  and  Outward  man  ;  to  be  no  Slave  | 
To  Sin,  nor  in  the  world  a  wretched  knave. 
But  that  I  should  by  him  here  &  hereafter  have  ] 
The  Liberty  which  he  to  his  Redeemed  gave 
From  first  to  last  to  All,     Therefore  o  brave  ! 
That  is  in  Rest  with  him  ;  this  in  the  grave. 
Here  let  the  Body  sleep  in  undisturbed  Dust, 
whose  Soul  above  expects  the  Rising  of  the  Just.  | 

18. 

Qualis  Vita,  Finis  ita. 

Sehr  beschwerlich  fallt  das  Sterben  einem  welcher  leicht  gelebt ; 

Leicht  hingegen  dem  der  schwerlich  in  der  +  Schul  hat  gestrebt. 

So  dasz  uns  nun  Tod  und  Leben  leicht  und  nicht  beschwerlich  sey, 

Halten  wir  uns  all  Zeit  fertig  und  bereit  zu  beederley. 

Ad  utrumqu.     Parati.  | 


M.   D.  Learned.  loi 

19- 
Hie  alinienta  mihi  maxima  praebet  Amor. 

Wer  Christi  Creiitz  von  hertzen  liebt, 
Und  durch  gedult  darin  sich  iibt.  | 
Dem  wirds  zuletzt  als  taglich  brod  ; 
Wornach  er  trachtet  nacht  und  tag,  | 
Ohn  welchs  er  gantz  nicht  leben  mag. 
Ja  achtets  vor  die  groszte  Noth.  ] 
Wan  solches  etwan  auszen  bleibt, 
Und  ihn  im  Lauf  nicht  Vorwarts  treibt, 
Erseiiffzend  als  lebendig  todt.  | 

20. 
Mihi  Sufficit  unum-Unio  Christi. 
Das  is  das  beste  theil,  und  aller  Christen  heil, 
Noch  hier  auf  dieser  Erden  Mit  Gott  Vereinigt  werden. 

21. 
Est  mihi  Christus  amor,  Christus  timor,  Omnia  Christus. 
Was  nur  zu  ersinnen  ist 
Find  ich  in  dir,  Herr  Jesu  Christ.  [ 
Dich  forcht  ich  als  ein  treiier  knecht, 
Dann  das  ist  deiner  Gottheit  recht ;  | 
Durch  deine  Menschheit  angetrieben 
Musz  ich  Dich  auch  als  Bruder  lieben.  | 

22. 

'^H  u-izsp^dkkouaa  rr^q  rvmaeioq  'AydrtTj  ruu  Xptffzou,      Ephs.  3  :   1 9. 
Die  Liebe  Christum  zu  erkennen,  | 
Muss  ich  mit  Paul  vortefflich  neuen  ; 
So  hoch,  so  tief ;  So  lang,  so  breit 
Ist  nichts  dasz  Sie  nicht  iiberschreit,  ] 
Ob  alle  Creaturen  zwar, 
und  viele  biicher  noch  so  klar 
von  gott  u.  Christo  zeiigen,  | 
So  ists  doch  nur  der  H.  Geist, 
der  uns  recht  heilsam  unterweist 
und  kraftiglich  thut  neigen.  | 
Ach  Fleisch  u.  blut  vermag  es  nicht, 
ist  auf  das  Irdisch  stets  verpicht, 
und  laszt  ds  hiailisch  fahren  ;  | 


I02  Pastor  ills'  Bee- Hive. 

Drumb  Hochstes  Wesen  bitt  ich  Dich, 
gelieb  Dich  Selbsten  wesentlich 
an  mich  zu  offenbaliren.  | 
Dan  Dich,  u.  Den  Du  hast  gesandt 
Zu  losen  unsrer  Siinden  band 
In  Wahrheit  zu  erkenen,  | 
Kan  ich  nun  meines  Hertzens  freiid, 
u.  meiner  Seelen  Seeligkeit, 
Ja  Ewigs  Leben  nenen.  | 
Joh  17:3.     Summum  nosse  Deum  prout  est  Sapientia  summa, 
O  te  felicem  !  Si  bene  noscis  Eum. 

23- 

Si  Christum  noscis,  Satis  est  si  caetera  nescis  : 
Si  Christum  nescis,  nihil  est,  si  caetera  noscis.  | 
Wer  alle  Dinge  weisz,  und  Christum  nicht  erkennt, 
Desz  Wiszenschaft  ist  Tand  ;  Er  nimt  ein  elend  End  ;  ] 
Wer  aber  Christum  kennt  u.  Ihn  in  Deniuth  ehrt. 
Air  weisz  er  sonsten  nichts,  ist  doch  recht  hoch-gelehrt.  | 

24. 
Me  a  Spes  est  unica  Jesus  : 

Mir  Jesus  alles  ist,  die  Welt  mag  imer  laufen, 

Nach  Ehr  u.  hoher  Pracht,  und  sich  umb  selbe  raufen,  | 

Wie  Alexander  that :  Ihm  Midas  gold  erkiest  ; 

Und  Wollust  Epicur  ;  Mir  Jesus  alles  ist.  | 

Die  Ehre  bringt  beschwerd  :  das  gold  hat  seine  Diebe, 

bey  Wollust  ist  Gefahr.     Die  unzertheilte  Liebe  | 

Zu  Jesu  giebet  Trost,  so  unser  hertz  durchsiiszt. 

Weg  Ehre,  Wollust,  gold  ;  Mir  Jesus  alles  ist. 

25. 
Impioruvi  idololatrica  Trinitas  : 
Concupiscentia  [Carnis]  Ocutorum  &  Superbia  Vitae.      i  Joh.  2:   15.  ', 

The  triple  League  of  hell.  | 
Much  idolized  Trinity,  World's  honour,  gold  and  Luxury, 
Tho'  thousands  are  who  for  you  call,  yet  unto  me  is  Jesus  all. 
Pure  gold,  true  honour,  meer  delight,  that  never  vanish  out  of  Sight. 
But  you  fade  without  stop  or  stay  ;  the  Thief  steals  earthly  gold  away, 
Vain  honour  onorates  the  mind,  and  Luxury  of  every  kind. 
Is  full  of  peril,  and  doth  hurt  both  Soul  and  body.     So  in  short 
Let  honour  Alexander  spur,  and  Luxury  an  Epicur,  and  gold  a  Midas; 
Yet  I  shall  |  Say  still  To  me  is  Jesus  all.     See  Num.  64. 


M.  D.  Learned.  103 

Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius  osor  honoris,  osor  luxuriae,  Corditus  osor 

opum  I 
I  loved  Luxury  &  gold  and  honour  once, 
But  loving  now  the  Lord  I  hate  them  for  the  nonce.  | 

Ich  sage  zu  dem  Gold,  zur  Wollust  u.  zur  Ehr, 

Hab  ich  eiich  schon  geliebt,  ich  lieb  eiich  nun  nicht  mehr.  | 

Ick  scheyd  van  Pracht  en  Eer,  en  van  de  snoode  Lust  ; 
Hoe  wyder  die  van  myn,  hoe  naerder  ick  ter  ruft.  | 

26. 

T,,      T-  c  \  God  keeps  from  ]  o- 

The  Fear  of  |    ^^^^  ^^^^^^  ^^   \  Sm. 

O,  Gottes-furcht,  du  bist  sehr  hoch  zu  preisen  !  | 

Und  magst  mit  recht  der  Weiszheit  Anfang  heiszen 

Die  welche  sich  umb  dich  mit  Ernst  befleiszen  1 

In  ihrem  Siii  ein  anderung  verspiihren  ; 

Du  pflegest  sie  vom  bosen  abzufiihren, 

Dasz  selbige  kein  siind  noch  schand  anriihren.  | 

Nun  Menschenfurcht,  von  dir  auch  was  zu  melden, 

So  musz  ich  dich  mit  scharfen  Worten  schelten,  | 

Vergallter  Feind  der  sieghaft  Christen-helden  ! 

Die  welche  dir  bey  sich  ein  Eingang  geben,  | 

Und  mehr  vor  dem  Geschopf,  als  ihrem  Schopfer  beben, 

Die  treibest  du  zu  alien  Laster-leben.  | 

Proximus  sum  Egomet  mihi. 

Tho'  thou  deservest  it,  Yet  I  will  have  the  best ; 

So  partial  is  Self,  So  unjust  Interest.  | 

27. 

Cibi  modicus,  Sibi  medicus. 

Wer  maszig  und  nicht  miiszig.  Hat  alles  iiberfliissig, 
Wird  k2ines  Dings  ]  Verdriiszig. 

Vice  versa  :  Wer  miiszig  u.  nicht  maszig, 
Versofifen  u.  gefraszig,  ist  Jederman  Verhaszig.  | 

Maszig  und  nicht  miiszig  Leben  Hat  dem  Artzt  kein  Geld  zu  geben;  | 
Miiszig  und  nicht  maszig  seyn  bringt  dem  Artzt  sein  Nahrung  ein  :  | 
Fiillet  ihm  den  Sackel  fein. 

Medico  equidem  bene  est,  Si  male  sit  alys.  | 


I04  Pas  tortus^  Bee-Hive. 

28. 
tjbcr  mcineni  kleinen  Tisch  : 

Dum  dat  oluscula  mensa  minuscula  pace  quieta,  |  Prov.  15  :   17.  | 
Ne  pete  orrandia  lautaqu.  prandia  lite  repleta.  | 
Hebje  geene  Capoen,  Moes,  Kruyt  en  Groen  Dat  kan  u.  voe'n.  | 
Sniaeckt  u  eeii  Worst  gelyck  Patrys,  en  Grutten-bry  gelyck  als  Rys, 
vvat  hoefje  dier-gekochte  Spys  ?  | 

29. 
A7U  Fensier  nachm  Garten  ziir : 

Laudes  ingentia  rura,  Exiguum  colito.     Virgil.'  | 
For  great  Plantations  are  Incantations,  and  hinderance  to  rest  ; 
A  little  &  well-tilled  field  dotli  often  more  than  large  ones  yield:  (yield 
what  large  ones  do  not),  Small  and  content  is  best.  | 

Urbs  valeat!     Nobis  arridet  Agellus  et  hortus 

Altarius  non  sit  qui  Suus  esse  potest.  | 

Urbs  habeat  Curas  !  hie  memiki  reddit  agellus, 

Victus  inemtus  ubi — Liber  amictus  ubi.  | 

Dormit  secure  cui,  non  est  Curia  curae. 

Die  beste  Ruh  ligt  im  Winckel. 

A  quiet  &  a  private  Life 

Is  best  for  me  &  for  my  wife.  | 

In  angello  cum  libello. 

In  een  hoexken  met  een  boexken  ?  | 

Die  buyten  Staet  syn  Rust  kan  vinden. 

En  op  een  onbestrafbaer  wys.  \ 

Sichselfs  onthaelt  en  oock  syn  Vrinden, 

heeft  die  op  aerd  geen  Paradys  ? 

adde  num.  85  &  320 

30. 
Ueber  dem  Spiegel  : 

Reddo  cuique  Suuni.     Non  blandion  ulli.  ] 

Ein  heszlich  Angesicht  findt  hier  kein  Schmeichler  nicht. 

Kofii,  koiii  u.  schau  mich  an,  Ich  will  dich  selbst  dir  zeigen, 

Es  soil  dir  dein  Gestalt  aus  mir  entgegensteigen.  j 

Und  bistu  eine  schwangere  Jungfer,  So  mochte  wohl  alle  junge 

Dime  deinen  bauchigen  Spiegel  begucken,  umb  ihre  gefahr 

recht  erkennen  zu  lernen.     Bistu  aber  mit  Ehren  schwanger, 


^  To  those  that  vaunt  and  strut  Comend  great  Tracts  of  land, 
And  for  thyself  take  but  a  little  one  in  hand. 


M.  D.  Learned.  105 

so  sihe  in  keinen  zerbrochenen  Spiegel ;  dann  daraus  haben 
etliche  weiber  miszgeburten  ersehen,  die  4  augen,  4  ohren, 
2  nasen,  &c.,  gehabt  haben. 

Generaliter.  Uyt  myn  kent  aller  Vrouwen  Sinnen, 

Die  veeltyts  spieg'len,  selden  spinnen. 

Sie  besprechen  sich  oft  mit  mir  u.  musz  ich  ihr  (obzwar  unwilliger) 
Rathgeber  seyn,  wie  dero  Haar  gekraiist,  dero  wangen  geschminckt, 
u,  dero  Top  (Sails)  knots  aufgespannt,  etc.,  etc.  Und  wiewohl  ich 
nicht  von  der  Gattung  bin,  die  Seneca  Paria  toti  Corpori  nennet,  So 
will  ich  dich  jedennoch  Von  mir  nicht  zu  diesen,  sondern  zu  zwei 
bessern  Spiegeln  weisen,  Nembl.  I.  Zu  hellem  Wasser,  Als  worinnen 
du  deine  beschmutztheit  nicht  nur  sehen,  sondern  zugleich  abvvaschen 
kanst.  Zu  einem  getreiien  Freiind,  sonst  Alter  Ego  genannt,  which  will 
never  dissemble,  but  unbosom  freely,  advise  justly,  assist  readily, 
adventure  boldly,  defend  couragiously,  take  all  patiently  and  continue 
unchangeably,  etc. 

Men,  Women,  young  <&  old,  Come  look  on  me. 
An  Emblem  of  a  Friend  you  here  do  see,  | 
Which  flatters  not,  but  shews  thy  Self  to  thee.  | 
Fragilior  vitro  quisquis  me  conspicis  Jpse  es.  | 
Thou  art  poor  fleshly  mass 
more  brittle  than  this  glass, 
and  perishing  as  grass.  | 

31. 
Am  Schiefer- stein  : 

Ut  lapis  Jmmemorem  moneam  te  scissilis  adsto. 

I  poor  Slate  stand  here  to  be 
An  help-meet  for  weak  memory.  | 
Hier  musz  ich  armer  Schifer-stein 
Ein  Stiitze  der  gedachtnisz  seyn.  \ 
Want,  wat  myn  Meester  heeft  vergeten, 
Moet  ick  hem  weder  maecken  weten.  [ 

32. 
Beym  Stiiben-  Of  en : 

Utilitas  facit  esse  Deos,  qua  nempe  remota  Templa  ruunt. 

Est  aestate  Jocus  dignus  honore  Focus. 

Die  Stube  selbst  pricht  wie  folgt :  | 

Im  Summer  bin  ich  kalt — Im  Winter  bin  ich  heisz, 


io6  Pastor  ills'  Bee- Hive. 

Und  werde  dergestalt — des  Menschen  Paradeis.  | 

Da  Er  sich  wiirmt  u.  schvvitzt  in  Zeit  von  schnee  u.  eis, 

Auch  wan  Er  gantz  erhitzt  Sich  abzukiihlen  weisz.  | 

add  196. 

33- 
Uber  der  Wage : 

Wieges  dan  wages  ;  iiberdenck  es  und  Sag  es  !  ] 

Die  ihrer  Hiinde  Werck  zwar  auf  die  Wag-schal  legen, 

Und  aber  ihre  Wort  nicht  nach  gebiihr  erwagen  !  | 

Wie  unniitz  solche  seyn  die  mogen  hierbey  wiszen, 

Dasz  sie  auch  Rechenschaft  von  diesen  geben  miissen.  \ 

add  num.  115. 

34. 

All/  dein  Kistgen,  woriyinen  meine  Mamiscripta  : 

Sint  muhi  libri,  sint  magna  Volumina  vobis  | 

Paucis  contentum  me  jubet  esse  Deus. 

Een  greyntjen  Pepers  is  beter  as  een  Mandevol  :  ] 
Pompoenen.     Oder  wie  Anna  Maria  Schuermans  Sprichwort  war  : 

Aus  kleinen  briinnlein  |  trinckt  man  sich  auch  satt. 

Multum  legendum,  non  multa.     Plin.  7,  Epist.  12.  | 

Unter  gedachtevi  Klstgen  : 

Millia  Hbrorumferequinquaginta  coegit  Ptolo-Philadelphus;  Sustulit 
ignis,  ohe  !  | 

Nach  der  thur  an  : 

Dum  volo,  dum  jubeo,  dum  Clavibus  impero  notris,  | 
Quae  latet,  absq.,  mora  Bibliotheca  patet.   Usui  non  vir.  | 
Res  angusta  domi,  modicum  far,  curta  supellex 
Librorum  faciunt  me  nihil  &  nihiU.  | 
Juxta  vulgare  :  Qui  nihil  habet,  nihili  habetur.  ] 

However — Less  gold,  less  guilt.     Poverty  is  a  greater  fence  to  a 
poor  man  than  is  the  Strengtn  to  a  mighty,  saith  Juda  in  his  Testament. 
Peu  de  bien,  peu  de  Soucy.     Wenig  kiih,  wenig  mlih.  | 
Een  bly  gemoet  en  matigh  goet  is  wonder  soet.  | 

35. 
Delight  in  Books  from  Evening  Till 
Mid-night  when  the  Cocks  do  sing  ;  | 
Till  Morning  when  the  day  doth  spring  : 


M.  D.  Learned.  107 

Till  Sun-set  when  the  Bell  doth  ring.  | 
Delight  in  Books,  for  Books  do  bring 
Poor  men  to  learn  most  every  thing  ;  | 
The  Art  of  true  Levelling : 
Yea  even  how  to  please  the  king.  [ 
Delight  in  Books,  they're  carrying 
Us  so  far,  that  we  know  to  fling.  ] 
On  waspish  men  (who  taking  wing 
Surround  us)  that  they  cannot  sting.  | 
ut  ungant  potius  quam  pungant.  | 
Das  sey  aller  Biicher  Surii, 
Glaub  an  Christum,  u.  Leb  fruiii. 
Ex  Fide  Vita,  i 

36. 

Quietisten,  Pietisten, 

Sind  nur  Nahmen,  wahre  Christen, 

MUssen  doch  mit  Furcht  u,  beben  Phil.  2:  12.  | 

streben  Still  und  from  zu  leben.    i  Tim.  2:2.] 

37-  _ 
Unweiser  Mensch  was  soil  der  aiiszerliche  schein  ? 
Wan  du  aus  hertzens-grund  kein  kirchenglied  willst  seyn.  | 

39- 
Zur  Zeit  der  Anno  i6g2  in  Pennsilvanien  entstandenen  Trennung. 
ledes  schonet  seiner  Art, 
Tyger,  Wolfu.  Leopard 
Ey  wie  komts  dan  dasz  ein  Christ  \ 
Wider  seines  Gleichen  ist  ? 
Da  ihm  doch  sein  Herr  gebeiit 
Liebe,  Fried  u.  Einigkeit.     Joh.  13:  34.  | 
Econtra,  Omnis  Apostata  est  Persecutor  sui  ordinis.  | 
Die  fehler  meiner  briider 

sind  mir  zwar  gantz  zu  wider :  i  Tim.  5:22.] 
Doch  wegen  eines  Worts  lac  3:2.     2  Tim.  2:  14. 
Ihr  Zeiignisz  zu  vernichten,  |  u.  freventlich  sie  richten,  Rom.  14:  13. 
I  Cor.  4:  5.  befind  ich  meines  Orts  | 
Zu  seyn  ein  luft-streich  kampfen,  i  Cor.  9:  26. 
Ein  Gottlos  Geistes  Dampfen,  i  Thes.  5  :  19.  | 
Ein  art  des  bruder-Mords,  i  Joh.  3  :  15.  | 
Drumb  wann  nun  andre  fechten, 


io8  Pastorius'  Bee-Hive, 

Umb  Schrift  u.  buchstab  rechten,  | 

Will  ich  (ohn  heiichelschein  : ) 

Bisz  mich  der  Herr  ruft,  schweigen,  i  Peter  3 :  10.  | 

Friedfertig  mich  erzeigen,  Rom  12  :  18. 

Und  unpartheyisch  seyn,  lac  3  :   17.  | 

Das  Gute  treiilich  iiben,  2  Thess.  3:13- 

Mein  Freiind  u.  Feinde  lieben,  Matt.  5  :  44.  | 

Dann  das  bringt  keine  Pein:  | 

Kein  Nach-weh,  keine  Schmertzen, 

Kein  unruh  in  dem  hertzen  ;  | 

Kein  Zwiespalt,  sondern  Freiid,  Rom.  2  :  7. 

Ja  Himlisches  Vergniigen  | 

Wann  wir  uns  endlich  fiigen 

Zur  Wieder-Einigkeit,  | 

Die  uns  als  Christen  ziemet, 

und  Paulus  hochlich  riihmet,  Phil.  2:1;  Col,  3  :   12.  | 

Abmahnt  von  Zanck  und  streit,  i  Cor.  11  :  16  ;  Eph.  4  :  31.  [ 

Die  gern  mit  disputiren 

Ihr  theiire  Zeit  verlieren 

sind  Narren,  Prov.  20  :  3  ;  Zum  beschlusz  | 

Wiinsch  ich,  dasz  Gottes  Wille 

erfiillt  werd  in  der  Stille ;  i  Thess.  4  :  11  ;  i  Tim.  2  :  2.-  | 

Dasz  Jedermann  Verdrusz 

an  After-reden  habe,  i  Peter  2:1;  lac.  4  :  11.  | 

Und  Vielmehr  seine  gabe 

bestatt  in  stater  Busz.     Matt.  3  :  2,  8  &  4  :   17.  | 

Derohalben  lasset  uns,  die  in  der  Heiligung  des  Geistes  u.  im  Glau- 
ben  der  Wahrheit — zum  Frieden  und  zur  Seligkeit  berufen  sind,  (nach 
des  H.  Apostels  Vermahnung,  Ephes.  4.)  Wandeln,  wie  sichs  gebiihrt, 
mit  aller  Demuth,  sanftmuth  u.  gedult,  einer  den  andern  In  der  Lieb 
Vertragende,  und  weichende  Von  denen  die  Zertrennung  u.  aergernisz 
anrichten,  auszer  der  Lehre  die  wir  gelernt  haben,  Rom.  16:  17. 
Dann  obwohl  argernisz  komen  u.  Rotten  unter  uns  seyn  miissen, 
Matt.  18:  6;  i  Cor.  11:  19.  So  ist  doch  das  Wehe  iiber  dem 
Menschen,  durch  welchen  solche  komen  ;  Matt.  d.  1.  Und  werden 
durch  sothaner  Sectirer  siisze  Wort  u.  prachtige  reden  auch  die 
unschuldigen  hertzen  verfiihrt,  Rom.  16:  18  ;  dasz  sie  ihrem  eigenen 
Verderben  nachfolgen,  2  Peter  2 "  2. 


M.  D.  Learned.  *  109 

Darumb  Grund-giitig  groszer  Gott  ! 

Erbarme  dich  |  der  Noth, 

Worin  manch  Menschenkind 

Verfallet  durcli  die  Siind  ; 

Die  selbigs  von  dir  |  scheidt,  Esa.  59  :  2 

0  lieb!  O  Einigkeit !   i  Job  4  :   16  &  5:  8. 
Und  brings  durch  Jesum  Christ  | 
Worvons  gewichen  ist.     Amen.  | 

None  deals  with  his  own  hard  ;  Tyger,  Bear,  Wolf,  Lion,  Pard.  [ 

What  provok's  so  harshly  than  Christian  against  Christian  ?  | 

When  Christ  command's  constantly  Love  &  Peace  &  Unity.     Joh.  13: 

34,  etc.  I 
(Therefore)  With  each  that  is  in  Love, 
And  harmless  as  a  Dove 

1  have  good  fellowship.  | 

But  who  hate  and  surmise,  altho'  like  Serpent  wise, 

To  them  I  give  the  slip.  | 

Sound  Doctrine  I  approve 

As  much  as  men  behoove  ; 

Yet  talking  is  but  foul,  | 

And  meerly  idle  Noise, 

If  I  to  Wisdom's  Voice  Not  hearken  in  my  soul,  j 

Pray  !  what  can  me  availe  high  knowledge  ? 

When  T  deale  most  spitefully  with  most,  | 

And  by  my  learned  Pride  Comitting  fratricide, 

Do  quench  the  holy  Ghost.  | 

You  who  at  present  rattle,  with  outward  matters  meddle 

&  shamelessly  do  brawl ;  | 

Be  sure  you  are  in  danger,  vid  Matt.  5  :  22. 

And  take  this  from  a  Stranger: 

You  do  not  well  at  all.  | 

What  foolishness  to  quarrel 

About  an  empty  Barrel  ? 

When  we  can  have  the  taste  | 

Of  holy  kingdom's  Wine  ; 

When  we  can  richly  dine 

With  Christ,  as  at  a  feast.  | 

First  called  unto  Peace,  I  run  still  thus  the  Race  of  Christianity  ;  | 

In  bearing  and  forbearing, 


no 


Pastorius'  Bee-Hive. 


Also  in  dearly  Chearing, 

Both  Friend  and  Enemy.  1 

Not  willing  for  to  render 

Backbiting,  wrong  or  Slander  ; 

(Which  is  to  beat  the  air.)  1 

But  rather  for  to  strive,  that  I  may  mend  my  life, 

&  make  mine  Inward  fair.  | 

This  will  do  harm  to  none,  rejoycing  everyone 

Who  wishes  and  expects,  | 

That  such,  as  are  defiled. 

May  soon  be  reconciled 

To  God  and  His  Elects.  1 

So  Brethren  !  I  conclude,  remaining  gladly  mute. 

As  I  was  all  along,  [ 

Till  God  again  inspireth, 

&  from  my  mouth  requireth 

A  more  delightsom  Song.  1 


REVIEWS    AND    MISCELIyANEOUS. 


JACOB    BAECHTOLD. — 1848-1897. 

To  the  superficial  observer  of  the  Hterary  conditions  of  Switzerland 
it  might  appear  that  the  Rhine  not  only  separates  the  Swiss  territory 
from  the  German  Motherland,  but  that  it  also  forms  a  barrier  to  the 
continuancy  of  the  intellectual  flow  from  country  to  country.  Intel- 
lectually inclined,  the  Swiss  themselves,  a  few  decades  ago,  reluctantly 
repeated  the  verdict  of  Greater  Germany,  denying  to  the  Swiss  the 
aesthetic  and  especially  the  Hterary  qualities  chai"acteristic  of  the 
Germans.  Of  late  the  growing  fame  of  Boecklin,  Gottfried  Keller, 
Heinrich  Leuthold  and  C.  F.  Meyer  have  assured  to  Switzerland  an 
enviable  place  in  art  and  literature.  Swiss  scholars,  like  Franz  Pfeifer, 
Adolf  Tobler  and  Baechtold  have  given  it  a  name  in  the  field  of  phi- 
lology. And  now.  leaving  out  of  consideration  Romanic  Switzer- 
land, a  survey  of  Baechtold' s  Geschichte  der  Deutschen  Literatur  in 
der  Schweiz  will  prove  the  untenableness  of  the  above  verdict.  To 
repeat  Baechtold's  own  words :  "Cut  out  of  the  map  of  Germany  any 
part,  of  the  same  area,  as  Switzerland,  and  see  whether  it  can  compare 
with  Switzerland  as  regards  the  range  of  its  literature.  They  forget 
that  in  the  O.  H.  G.  period  the  course  of  development  of  the  convent 
of  St.  Gall  was  that  of  German  literature  and  civilization  in  general. 
They  no  longer  remember  the  happy  times  of  lyric  and  epic  poetry  of 
the  thirteenth  century,  no  longer  the  powerful  impulse  which  in  the 
sixteenth  century  Switzerland  gave  to  the  German  drama. ' ' 

Baechtold  keenly  felt  that  the  modest  place  assigned  to  Swiss  litera- 
ture in  the  standard  works  of  Gervinus,  Scherer,  etc,  would  not 
allow  a  just  estimation  of  the  literature  of  Switzerland.  If  German 
scholars  have  made  an  exhaustive  study  of  the  O.  H.  G.  period  in  the 
library  of  St.  Gall,  the  later  epochs,  even  the  important  i8th  century, 
never  seem  to  have  attracted  many  students.  Investigations  of  greater 
or  less  importance  by  Wackernagel,  Morikofer  and  others  were  neither 
exhaustive  nor  broad  enough  in  scope,  although  a  great  deal  of  valu- 
able material  was  brought  to  light,  leading  to  important  results.  Mori- 
kofer's  work  on  the  history  of  the  XVIII  century  literature  in  Switzer- 
land richly  deserved  the  praise  bestowed  on  it.  Baechtold  considered 
it  the  task  of  his  life  to  take  up  the  work  where  those  before  him  had 
left  it,  and  to  bring  it  to  a  conclusion  creditable  both  to  his  country  and 
to  himself  The  difficulties  confronting  him  in  his  undertaking  grew 
as  the  work  progressed.     After  years  of  untiring  preliminary  studies 


112  Hans  Frblichcr. 

he  published  the  first  "Lieferung"  of  his  Geschichle  der  deutschen 
Litcratur  in  der  Schwiz  in  1887.  The  work  was  not  completed  until 
1892.  When  Baechtold  died  last  Summer,  he  left  on  his  desk  the  first 
revised  page  of  a  new  edition  of  his  book. 

Baechtold' s  University  years  reach  down  into  the  interesting  epoch, 
when  the  Nibelungen  battle  was  waged  between  the  two  antagonistic 
camps  of  critics.  Born  near  Schaffhausen  (January  27,  1848),  Jakob 
Baechtold,  after  absolving  the  usual  curriculum,  first  studied  under 
Holtzmann  in  Heidelberg,  then  in  Munich  under  Hofmann,  and  lastly 
in  Tubingen  where  he  took  his  Ph.D.,  1870,  After  a  sojourn  at  the 
Sorbonne  in  Paris,  where  he  won  the  friendship  of  Gaston  Paris,  and 
some  months'  study  at  the  British  Museum,  he  accepted  a  position  as 
Professor  of  German  at  the  Gymnasium  in  Solothurn,  later  a  similar 
one  at  the  normal  school  for  women  teachers  in  Ziirich.  There  he 
eventually  became  Privatdozent  at  the  University.  In  1887  he  was 
elected  Professor  Extraordinarius,  and  shortly  afterwards  Ordinarius. 
He  declined  a  call  to  Basel  in  1888.  When  in  1895  the  University  of 
Leipzig  honored  him  with  a  call,  Baeclitold  yielded  to  the  entreaties 
of  his  countrymen  and  remained  in  his  old  place.  He  died  suddenly, 
August  8,  1897.  Ill  health  for  some  time  had  filled  him  with  sad  fore- 
bodings. Thinking  of  what  might  come,  he  wrote  to  one  of  his 
friends  shortly  before  his  death :  "  Nur  kein  langes  Siechtum  !  "  His 
wish  was  fulfilled. 

The  task  Baechtold  had  set  himself  early  in  his  career  was  to  gain 
a  better  knowledge  of  Swiss  Hterature  than  anyone  before  him  had 
possessed,  and  to  secure  to  it  a  befitting  place  in  the  history  of  the 
literature  of  the  Greater  Motherland,  and  furthermore,  to  trace  the 
mutual  influence  of  the  two  literatures.  To  this  task  Baechtold  re. 
mained  true  throughout  his  life.  The  preliminary  work  to  be  done 
was  of  the  most  trying  character,  especially  so  with  regard  to  the 
modern  Swiss  literature.  A  great  part  of  the  material  lay  buried  in 
public  and  private  libraries.  Many  earlier  publications  on  the  subject 
proved  inaccurate  and  made  renewed  research  imperative.  Moreover, 
Swiss  literature  at  the  very  outset  lacked  the  incentive  of  a  Parnassus 
like  that  of  Germany,  to  which  all  these  labors  might  eventually  lead 
up.  Nevertheless  Baechtold  took  up  the  work.  He  himself  first 
published  a  number  of  studies  on  special  subjects.  Two  series  of 
publications  under  his  editorship  contributed  to  prepare  the  way.  In 
company  with  colleagues  he  established  the  ' ' Bidliot/iek  alterer  Schrift- 
werke  der  deutscheyi  Schweiz,^^  a  volume  of  which  contains  his  excellent 
study  of  Niklaus  Manuel.  Under  his  direction  the  Teutonic  seminary 
at  the  University  edited  three  volumes  of  Swiss  dramas  of  the  XVI 


Jacob  Baechtold.  113 

century.  A  great  many  special  investigations  made  under  his  direc- 
tion appeared  in  form  of  dissertations  or  articles  in  periodicals.  A 
careful  revision  of  Vv'ork  previously  done  resulted  in  a  considerable 
number  of  corrections  of  earlier  accounts  of  Swiss  literature,  as  e.  g., 
the  one  concerning  the  supposed  school  of  translators  at  St.  Gall, 
which  he  proved  to  be  a  falsification  of  Goldast.  The  results  of  these 
investigations  are  laid  down  in  his  "History  of  Swiss  Literature." 
The  chapters  devoted  to  the  i5th  century,  and  to  Bodmer  and  Breit- 
inger  emphasize  by  their  length  the  importance  which  he  attached  to 
these  epochs.  His  own  words:  "Die  Schweiz  ist  das  Hauptland,  die 
eigentliche  Geburtsstatte  des  neuern,  durch  die  Reformation  hervor- 
gerufenen  Dramas  "  might  serve  as  motto  to  the  chapter  on  the  i6th 
century  literature,  which  takes  up  almost  one-third  of  the  whole  book. 
The  wealth  of  dramatic  literature  brought  to  light  by  Baechtold  excels, 
unquestionably,  rather  in  quantity  than  in  aesthetic  quality.  As  he 
himself  remarks  :  "He  who  would  do  justice  to  the  drama  of  the  XVI 
century  will  have  to  lay  aside  the  standards  found  in  Aristotle  and 
Leasing. "  The  student  of  the  history  of  the  drama  cannot  ignore 
the  important  data  in  this  chapter.  For  the  student  of  human  nature 
and  of  the  culture  of  that  epoch  it  is  an  invaluable  source  of  informa- 
tion. No  less  important  is  that  part  of  the  chapter  devoted  to  the 
"  Kirchenlied,"  and  to  the  literature  of  translations,  especially  from 
the  French.  In  the  chapter  on  the  XVIII  century,  Baechtold  passes 
review  upon  a  stately  array  of  important  names :  Haller,  Sulzer, 
Bodmer,  Breitinger,  Lavater,  Gessner.  What  he  writes  on  Bodmer, 
really  amounts  to  a  monograph.  No  one  will  criticise  Baechtold  for 
giving  at  last  an  authoritative  picture  of  so  important  a  character.  A 
criticism  of  the  space  allotted  to  Bodmer  would  imply  a  similar  one 
of  the  extensive  summaries  of  the  dramas  of  the  16th  century,  which 
make  that  chapter  abnormally  bulky.  Baechtold  said  himself  that  in 
a  new  edition  he  would  not  change  the  scope  of  either.  I  am  inclined 
to  think,  however,  that  in  a  revised  edition  the  book  would  have 
taken  an  essentially  different  form.  The  copious  notes  in  the  appen- 
dix should  have  been  published  in  "  Grundriss"  fashion  in  a  separate 
volume. 

The  book  closes  with  Bodmer's  death.  It  is  a  readable  book,  and 
sometimes  even  "  kurzweilig,"  just  as  Baechtold  wished  it  to  be.  It 
cannot  be  denied  the  attribute  of  originality.  The  style  pleases 
through  its  natural  freshness,  a  subjective  element  frequently  foreign 
to  books  of  this  kind.  For  the  scholar  it  will  be  for  years  to  come  the 
authority  on  the  subject.  It  well  deserves  the  praise  which  Conrad 
Hofmann  gave  it  :  "  Wieder  einmal  eine  ernste,  ehrliche,  gediegene 

8 


114  Hans  Frblicher. 

Arbeit,  einfach  und  wahr,  dem  Charakter  des  Mannes  entsprechend." 

Baechtold's  intention  to  follow  this  work  with  a  book  on  the  Swiss 
poets  of  the  present  century  was  not  realized.  Editions  of  Leuthold's 
poems,  a  biograph)'^  of  Gottfried  Keller  and  other  preliminary  work 
eminently  fitted  him  for  the  task,  which  he  had  to  leave  for  others. 

Among  the  literary  men  in  Switzerland,  Baechtold  stands  unques- 
tionably first.  Others  may  have  excelled  him  in  special  subjects  as 
e.  g. ,  L.  Tobler  in  Swiss  folklore,  but  no  scholar  before  him  possessed 
the  same  extensive  and  accurate  knowledge  of  the  literature  of  Switz- 
erland. 

While  writing  his  Literaturgeschichte  he  was  brought  into  personal 
contact  with  scholars  all  over  Germany.  He  made  himself  a  place 
among  the  best  of  them.  Greater  Germany  willingly  acknov/ledged 
his  merits.  Aside  from  his  call  to  Leipzig — an  unusual  distinction  for 
a  foreigner — his  appointment  as  one  of  the  editors  of  the  Weimar 
edition  of  Goethe  gave  evidence  of  the  esteem  in  which  he  was  held. 
In  the  latter  capacity  he  undertook  the  editing  of  Warheit  tind  Dich- 
tun^,  and  of  the  Tageb'ucher.  The  correspondence  of  Morike  with 
Herman  Kurz,  Moritz  Schwind  and  Theodor  Storm  published  by 
Baechtold  were  but  preliminary  to  a  Morike  Biography,  which  he 
intended  to  write. 

The  Keller  Biographie  is  the  last  work  of  any  importance  published 
by  Baechtold.  It  seemed  eminently  appropriate  to  entrust  him  with 
this  task.  Years  of  intimate  intercourse  with  Keller  and  thorough 
appreciation  of  Keller's  individuality  and  genius,  such  as  perhaps  a 
Swiss  only  can  have,  enabled  him  to  draw  a  faithful  picture  of  him. 
By  letting  Keller  himself  speak  in  this  biography  through  his  letters 
and  diaries  a  more  direct  impression  of  the  poet  and  man  is  obtained, 
without  undue  idealization,  without  harsh  criticism,  just  Gottfried 
Keller  as  we  knew  him.  It  may  be  said,  that  Keller's  personality  and 
his  style  of  writing  remained  not  without  influence  upon  Baechtold. 
Like  his  great  contemporary  he  hated  all  "  Schonrednerei,"  all  that 
pretentious  scholarly  garb  in  which  some  of  the  contemporaries  clothe 
what  they  have  to  say.  He  was  a  truthful  honest  worker,  as  a  man 
genuine,  open  hearted  and  devoted  to  the  ideal,  and  not  rarely  a 
spark  of  the  good  humor,  characteristic  of  his  conversation,  passed 
into  his  literary  works. 

A  biography  of  Baechtold  and  a  volume  containing  Kleinere  Schrif- 
ten  is  to  published  in  the  near  future. 

HANS  FROLICHER. 
The  Woman's  Coi^lege, 
Bai,timore,  Md. 


The  Diction  and  Rime-Technic.  115 

The  Diction  and  Rime-Technic  of  Hartman  von  Aue.  By  B. 
J.  Vos,  Associate  in  German  in  the  Johns  Hopkins  University. 
Pp.  74.  Lemcke  &  Buechner,  New  York  and  Leipzig.  H. 
Grevel  &  Co.,  London,  1896. 

Wilhelm  Grimm's  elaborate  treatise  Z^ir  Geschichte  des  Reims 
{Abhandlungen  der  Berliner  Akademie  1851)  has  furnished  a  point  of 
departure  for  a  half-century  of  fruitful  study  of  German  metrics. 
Grimm  classified  and  defined  the  various  kinds  of  rime  employed  by 
the  M.  H.  German  poets  and  stated,  in  bold  outlines,  the  position  of 
these  poets  in  the  general  rime-scheme  ;  but  without  fully  exhaustive 
statistics. 

The  work  under  review  is  an  effort,  to  correct  the  defects  of  previous 
treatments  of  the  rime-technic  of  Hartman  by  an  accurate  and  exhaus- 
tive application  of  the  diction  and  rime-data  as  tests  of  the  chronology 
of  Hartman' s  works.  The  author  bases  his  investigation  upon  a  Rime- 
Index  to  Hartman  and  a  Cojjtplete  Dictio7iary  to  Hartman  (except  Iwein 
for  which  Benecke  is  used),  and  proceeds  to  determine  the  chronology 
of  Hartman's  works  from  the  cumulative  evidence  oi  diction,  and  rime- 
technic  (inci.  rime-vowels,  rime-groups,  identical  rime  Sindi^npare  rime). 
The  Lieder  are  excluded,  for  obvious  reasons,  from  the  treatment. 
The  most  important  chronological  result  arrived  at  from  the  evidence 
of  the  various  catagories  is  the  close  connection  between  Erec  and 
Gregorius,  which  is  counter  to  the  tendency  in  more  recent  years  to 
place  the  Gregorius  after  Iwein. 

In  point  of  method,  the  author  is  in  advance  of  his  predecessors  in 
recognizing  that  ' '  Too  much  importance  has  in  the  past  been  attached 
to  individual  criteria,  -i^  *  *  Development  is  not  so  mechanical  :  it  is 
organic,  has  life,  and  is,  therefore,  influenced  by  other  causes  besides 
period  of  production.  *  *  =i=  All  such  evidence  must  hence,  necessarily, 
be  cumulative." 

The  fact  remains,  however,  that  the  value  even  of  this  ciamdative 
evidence  rests  upon  the  trustworthiness  of  the  individical  criteria. 
Hence,  until  we  have  some  recognized,  well-established  method  of 
determining  the  test-value  of  each  category  (not,  as  the  author  ex- 
presses it,  in  order  "to  prove  that  the  category  under  consideration 
was  trustworthy  beyond  all  others,"  but  rather  to  determine  the  trust- 
worthiness of  each  category  apart  from  others  in  a  given  case),  we 
shall  not  be  able  to  determine  chronology  or  authorship  from  the 
cumulative  evidence  of  these  criteria  taken  together. 

While  thus  the  question  of  chronology  may  not  be  finally  settled  for 
the  works  of  Hartman,  the  work  before  us  is  one  of  permanent  values, 
exhaustive  in  its  statistics  and  judicious  in  treatment.  Many  important 
results  of  the  treastise  are  given  in  the  form  of  foot  notes  as  corrections 
or  modifications  of  previous  statements.  More  than  twenty  correc- 
tions of  this  kind  have  been  obser\^ed — a  triumph  for  statistics. 


RECENT   ACQUISITIONS    OF   GERMAN-AMERICANA. 


THE   KARL   KNORTZ    COLLECTION 

Albrecht,  H.  F.     Gegenwart  und  Zukunft.     F.  W.  Thomas  &  Sons, 

Philadelphia,  1873. 
Alpers,  W.     Die  Heldenbraut,     Willmers  &  Rogers,  New  York,  1876. 
Anthropos,  H.     Schlaraffiade.    Pilger  Buchhandl.,  Reading,  Pa.,  1873. 
Arnemann,  A.     Fierabend.     H.  Lischer,  Davenport,  la.,  1875. 
Asmus,  G.     Gedichtbijchelchen.     E.  H.  Mayer,  Leipzig. 
Berghold,  A,     Indianer-Rache.     Schreckenstage  von  Neu  Ulm,  1862. 

Selbstverlag  d.  V.  Neu  Ulm,  Minn.,  1876. 
Brethauer,  O.     Ernstes  und  Launiges,     S.  Zickel,  New  York. 
Bruck,  J.     Bunte  Bliithen.     S.  Zickel,  New  York,  1880. 
Briihl,  G.     Das  alte  Culturvolk  des  Mississippithales. 
Briihl,   G.      (Kara  Giorg)  Poesien  des  Urwaldes.      Benziger  Bros., 

New  York  &  Cincinnati,  1871. 
Castelhun,    F.    K.      Gedichte.      Freidenker  Pub.    Co.,    Milwaukee, 

Wis.,  1883. 
Diescher,  W.    Erstlingsbliithen,    Gedichte.    Hamburg,  1882.    2.  Aufl. 
Diescher,  W.     DruUige  Kinner.     Huene  &  Bros.,   Brooklyn,   1887. 
Dorsch,  E.     Parabasen.     "Freidenker,"  Milwaukee,  Wis.,  1875. 
Dornrosen.     Sammlung   deutscher  Lyrik  in  Amerika.      E.    Steiger, 

New  York,  1871, 
Eberhard,  J.   G.     Abendglocken.  Gedichte.      C.   Witter,  St.  Louis, 

Mo.,  1892. 
Funcken,  E.     Gedichte.       Benziger  Bros.  Einsiedeln,  New  York  & 

Cincinnati,  1878. 
Freimund,  E.     Extrasitzung  des  H.   Diabolus,  etc.     Selbstverlag  d. 

v.,  Allentown,  Pa.,  1873. 
Gedenkblatter.     Verein  fiir  Kunst  und  Wissenschaft. 
Goebel,  Jul.     Ueber  die  Zukunft  unseres  Volkes  in  Amerika.     H. 

Chervuny,  New  York,  1884. 
Goebel,  Jul.     Gedichte.     E.  Pierson,  Dresden  &  Leipzig,  1895. 
Goldstein,  M.     Aus   Liebe.  Dramolet  in    i  Akt.     E.  Steiger,   New 

York,  1875. 


The  Karl  Knortz  Collectio7t.  117 

Conner,  N.  S.     Prairieblummen.   Luxemburger  Mundart.     Druck  d. 
Luxemburger  Gazette,  Dubuque,  la.,  1883. 

Haacke,  H.     Gedichte.     Selbstverlag  d.  V.,  Cincinnati,  1896, 

Hecker,  F.     Reden und  Vorlesungen.    C.  Witter,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  1872. 

Heimathgriisze  aus  Amerika.     2.  Aufl.     E.  Steiger,  New  York,  1870. 

Heinzen,  K.     Lustspiele,     Selbstverlag  d.  V.,  New  York,  1859. 

Holthusen,   C.     Ole  Erinnerungen.     Willmer  &  Rogers  News  Co., 
New  York,  1876. 

Holls,  F.  W.     Franz  Lieber.  Vortrag.      E.  Steiger,  New  York,  1884. 

Ilgen,  P.     Herzensleben  in  Liedern.     St.  Louis,  Mo.,  i8g6. 

Jiingst,  W.     Ueber  Wesen  und  Ziele  der  Socialdemocratie.     Vortrag 
im  deutsch.  litt.  Club,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Jiingst,  W.     Die  sociale  Revolution  der  Gegenwart. 

Keilmann,  W.     Herzensbliithen.   Gedichte.     Courier  Co. ,  Evansville, 
Ind.,  1880. 

Kirchhofit;  C.  und  Th.     Adelpha.  2  Th.  Ad.  Lehmkuhl,  Altona,  1871. 

Kleeberg,  M.     Gedichte.     Willmer  &  Rogers,  New  York,  1S77. 

Kopelke,  J.     Ein  Sommer-Ausflug  nach  Europa.     Crown  Point,  Ind. 

Leben  in  Liedern,  Ein.    Gedichte  eines  Heimatlosen.     Freidenker  Pub. 
Co.,  Milwaukee,  Wis.,  1886. 

Lichtenstein,  J.     Zur  Kritik  des  modernen  Materialismus.     Krehbiel 
&  Moss,  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  1873. 

Loebel,  P.     Gedichte.     W.  H.  Neebe,  Chicago,  111.,  1879. 

Loewenthal,   E.  J.   Robert  Blum.     Trauerspiel   in   3   Akten.     G.   E. 
Stechert,  New  York. 

Ludloff,  K.     Die  Ursachen  des  Wohlstandes  und  der  Verarmung  der 
Volker.     C.  N.  Casper,  Milwaukee,  Wis.,  18S2. 

Marklin,  E.     Im  Strome  der  Zeit.     Dichtungen,  2  Aufl.     C.  N.  Cas- 
par, Milwaukee,  Wis.,  1886. 

Metzner,    H.     Jahrbiicher   d.    Deutsch-Amerik.    Turnerei.      3    Bde. 
212  East  83rd  Street,  New  York,  1892. 

Moiling,  K.  E.     Friedrich  der  Einzige.     Karl  Duncker,  Berlin,  1870. 

Miiller,  W.     Am  Wege  gepfluckt.    Gedicht.     I.  Vogel,  Glarus,  1888. 

Munch,  F.     Die  sinnliche  und  die  geistige  Lebensansicht  od.  Mate- 
rialismus und  Dualismus.     W.  Thomas  &  Son,  Phila.,  1871. 

Nies,  K.      Funken.        Gedichte.       Verlag   der    "  Deutsch- Amerika- 
nischen  Dichtung."     New  York,  1891. 

Precht,  V.     New  York  im  Siebzehnten  Jahrhundert.     Vortrag.     New 
York.  1884. 

Puchner,  R.     Klange  aus  dem  Westen.     C.  Dorflinger.     Milwaukee, 
Wis.,  1879. 


ii8  Recent  Acquisitions  of  German- Americana. 

Puchner,  R.     Ai^laja.    Freldenker  Pub.  Co.      Milwaukee,  Wis.,  1S87. 
Puchner,    R.     Erinnerungen  aus  den  ersten  Jahren  der  Ansiedlung 

New  Holstein.     Wisconsin  Democrat,  Chilton,  Wis. 
Rapp,    W.     Erinnerungen   eines   Deutsch-Amerikaners   an   das  alte 

Vaterland.     Franz  Gindele  Pr.  Co.     Chicago,  1890. 
Reuber,  K.     Gedanken  iiber  die  Neue  Zeit.     Urben  «&  Bros.     Pitts- 
burg, 1872. 
Rohe,  C.  H.     Morgenglocken.     Gedichte.   Lutherische  Verlagshand- 

lung.     Columbus,  Ohio.  1888. 
Schnaufifer,  C.  H.   Lieder  und  Gedichte.    "Wecker."   Baltimore,  1879. 
See,  H.  vom,    Gedichte.   I.  B.  Hoeger  &  Son.   Milwaukee,  Wis  ,  1866. 
Senner,  J.   H.       Nationalitat.       Vortrag.       Hermann   Bartsch,    New 

York,  1885. 
Siemering,  A.     Ein  verfehltes  Leben.     Druck  d.    Freien   Presse  fur 

Texas.     San  Antonio,  Texas,  1876. 
Siller,  F.     Evangeline.     Dorflinger  &  Co.,  Milwaukee,  1876. 
Siller,  F,     Lieder  und  Spriiche.     I.  A.  Finsterlin.      Munchen,  1887. 
Steiner,  H.     Kiinstlerfahrten.     International  News  Co.     New  York. 
Straubenmiiller,  H.     Herbstrosen,    Gesammelte  Gedichte.   E.Steiger, 

New  York. 
Thomann,    R.     Leben  und  Thaten  von    Hannis   Schaute   al.     John 

Shoddy.     California  Democrat,  San  Francisco,  Cal. ,  1873. 
Vocke,  W.     Der  deutsche  Soldat  im  amerikanischen  Biirgerkriege. 

Vortrag.     Northwestern  University,  Evanston,  1895. 
Wahlde,  H.v.     Gedichte.     Geo.  Denser,  Louisville,  Ky. 
Walther,  C.  F.  W,     Communismus  und  Socialismus.     Lutherischer 

Concordia  Verlag,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
Winckler,    W.     Lieder   eines   Wandervogels.     2   Aufl.    Selbstverlag 

d.  V.     Stuttgart,  1871. 
Zuendt,  E.  A.     Lyrische  und  dramatische  Dichtungen.     E.  Witter, 

St.  Louis,  Mo.,  1879. 


OTHER   ACQUISITIONS. 

Baer,  George  F.     Germans  in  Pennsylvania.     Reading,  1895. 

Beilage  des  Reading  Adler,  Jan.  12,  1897.     Reading,  Pa. 

Boettcher,    Dorothea.       Deutsche    Klange   in    Amerika.     Gedichte. 

Koelling  &  Klappenbach,  Chicago,  111.,  1895.     (Presented  by 

the  Publishers). 


Recent  Acqiiisitions  of  Gej'inan- Americana.  119 

Collitz,  H.  Der  Name  der  Goten  bei  Griechen  und  Romern.  Reprint 
from  The  Jour,  of  Germ.  Phil.  I,  2.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 

Deutsche  Gesellschaft  von  Milwaukee.  Siebzehnter  Jahresbericht.  D. 
Hake,  Milwaukee,  Wis.,  1897. 

Diffenderffer,  F.  R.  The  German  Exodus  to  England  in  1709.  Publi- 
cation of  Pennsylvania- German  Society,  Lancaster,  Pa.,  1897. 
(Presented  by  the  author). 

Dotterer,  H.  S.  Whitemarsh  Reformed  Congregation  in  the  Holland 
Archives,  Ambler,  1897.     (Presented  by  the  author). 

Ferren,  H.  M.  Welche  Verpflichtung  hat  der  Lehrerbund  gegen  die 
hoheren  amerikanischen  Schulen?  Erzieliugsbldtter,  N.  324, 
1897.  Freidenker  Pub.  Co.,  Milwaukee,  Wis.  (Presented 
by  the  author.) 

Goebel,  J.  Zur  Vorgeschichte  der  Sievers'schen  Typentheorie  Son- 
der-Abdr.  aus  Anglia.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 

Goebel,  J.  and  Ongerth,  H  E.  J.  Report  of  the  Association  of 
Teachers  of  German  in  California.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 

Goebel,  J.,  Jordan,  D.  T.,  Putzker,  A.  German  in  the  Public  Schools. 
Papers  read  at  the  meeting  of  the  California  Teachers'  Associa- 
tion, 1897.      (Presented  by  the  author.) 

Hepner,  Adolf.  Centenary  of  "  Faust "  Zueignung  ;  Goethes  "Dedi- 
cation" of  "Faust,"  St.  Louis,  1897.    (Presented  by  the  author.) 

Hertzog,  J.  B.     Thanatopsis  and  other  Poems.     Kohler,  Phila.,  1894. 

Keller,  E.     Gedichte  in  "  Unser  Kalenner."     Allentown,  Pa.,  1885. 

Keim,  de  B.  R.  Description  of  the  City  of  Reading.  (Presented  by 
the  author.) 

Kirchhoff,  Theodor.  Hermann,  Ein  Auswandererleben.  Episch-lyrische 
Dichtung.   Leipzig,  Avenarius,  1897.   (Presented  by  the  author). 

Knortz,  K.  William  Allen  Butler  "  Zwei  Millionen  und  Nichts  anzu- 
ziehen,"  Amerik.  Gedichte.  Uebersetzt  von  Ed.  Dorsch.  Karl 
Henckell  &  Co. ,  Zurich  &  Leipzig. 

Learned,  M.  D.  The  German-American  Turner  Lyrik.  Reprint  of 
loth  Report  of  Society  of  the  History  of  the  Germans  in  Md. 

Mercer,  H.  C.  Tools  of  the  Nationmaker.  A  descriptive  Catalogue  of 
objects  in  the  Museum  of  the  Historical  Society  of  Bucks  Co., 
Pa.,  Doylestown,  Pa.,  1897.     (Presented  by  the  author  ) 

Mercer,  H.  C.  Notes  Taken  at  Random.  Read  before  the  Bucks 
Co.  Hist.  Soc,  July  21,  1896.     (Presented  by  the  author). 

Parsons,  J.  Remarks.  Professor  Charles  C.  Schaefifer.  (Presented 
by  the  author.) 


1 1  >  >  •  •    •  ( 


i    ,  j%  >  .  ,    .* !  * •  J ' J  ;* •  ;  '  J '  ',  ,'      ' 


I20  Reccjit  Acquisitions  of  German-Americana. 

Preuss,  A.     The  Review.    St.  Louis,  Mo.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 
Sachse,  J.  F.     The  Missive  of  Justus  Falckner,  of  Germantown,  con- 
cerning the  religious  condition  of  Pennsylvania  in  the  year  1701. 

Translated.   Reprinted  from  Pennsylvania  Mag.  Hist,  and  Biog. 

for  July,  1897.     (Presented  by  the  author). 
Schonfeld,  H.     Anfiinge  deutschen  Lebens  und  deutscher  Politik  in 

Amerika.     Beilage  zur  Allgemeinen    Zeitung,    Nr.   167,    1897, 

Munchen.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 
Anfange  deutschen  Lebens  und  deutscher  Politik  in  Amerika.     IL 

Beilage   zur   Allgemeinen    Zeitung,   Nr.    169,    1897,  Munchen. 

(Presented  by  the  author.) 
Zur  Geschichte  der  Deutschen  in  Amerika.     Beilage  zur  Allgemeinen 

Zeitung,  Nr.  225,  1897,  Munchen.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 
Die   Bedentung   der   Universitat   von    Pennsylvanien    fiir  deutsche 

Kultur  und  Geschichte.    Sender- Abdr.  aus  dem  Paedagogischen 

Archiv,  Nr.  10,  1896. 
Seebaum,  J.  A.      Tam-Tam,   Kritische,   humoristiche,  u.    satyrische 

Vierteljahrsschrift.     Chicago,  1897.     (Exchange.) 
Seebaum,  J.  A.     Tam-Tam  Almanach.     Elfter  Jahrgang,  435  Racine 

Ave.,  Chicago,  111.     (Exchange.) 
Society  for  the  History  of  the  Germans  in  Maryland,  Eighth,  Ninth 

and  Tenth  Annual  Report,  Baltimore,  1894- 1896. 
Sieling,  J.  H.     Historical  and  Biographical  Sketch  of  Baron  Henry 

Wm.  Stiegel.     Repr.  from  New  Era,  Lancaster,  Pa.    (Presented 

by  the  author.) 
The  Pastorian,    1897.     Published  by  the  T.  A.  K.  Society,  German- 
town,  Pa.     (Presented  by  C.  F.  Brede). 
Thomas,  J.  W.     Melanchthon  Day.    The  Allegheny  Literary  Monthly, 

Vol.  i,  Nr.  5.     (Presented  by  the  author.) 
Walburg,  A.  H.     German  Language  and  Literature.     Columbus,  O. 

(Presented  by  the  author). 
York  City   and   County    Directory,    1896-97.       (Presented  by  Rev. 

Charles  F.  Wood.) 


3  1198  05117  4154 


N/infl/DS117/mSMX 


UNIVERSITY 

of- 

PEMNGYLVAN!^ 


