^' "■(■''''!'<' 


UNIVERSITYy 

PENNSYLVANIA 

LIBRARIES 


©crman  Qmcrtcan  Qnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


A   BI-MONTHLY   DEVOTED   TO   THE  COMPARATIVE  STUDY  OF  THE 

Historical,  Literary,  Linguistic,  Educational  and  Commercial  Relations 

OF 

Germany  and  America 


ORGAN   OF 


The  German  American  Historical  Society 

The  National  German  American  Alliance 

The  Union  of  Old  German  Students  in  America- 


EDITOR, 

MARION  DEXTER  LEARNED, 

University  of  Pennsylvania. 
CONTRIBUTING  EDITORS  : 


H.  C.  G.  Brandt, 

Hamilton  College. 
W.  H.  Carpenter, 

Columbia  University. 
W.  H.  Carruth, 

University  of  Kansas. 
Hermann  Collitz, 

Bryn  Mawr  College. 
Starr  W.  Cutting, 

University  of  Chicago. 
Daniel  K.  Dodge, 

University  of  Illinois. 
A.  B.  Faust, 

Cornell  University. 
KuNO  Francke, 

Harvard  University. 
Adolph  Gerber, 

Late    of   Earlham  College. 


Julius  Goebel, 

Harvard  University. 
J.  T.  Hatfield, 

Northwestern  University. 
W.  T.  Hewett, 

Cornell  University. 
A.  R.  Hohlfeld, 

University  of  Wisconsin. 
Hugo  K.  Schilling, 

University  of  California. 
H.  Schmidt-Wartenberg, 

University  of  Chicago. 
Hermann  Schoenfeld, 

Columbian  University. 
Calvin  Thomas, 

Columbia  University. 
H.  S.  White, 

Harvard  University. 


Henry  Wood,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 


New  Series,  Vol.  5. 


Old  Series,  Vol.  9. 


1907. 


published  by 


THE  GERMAN  AMERICAN  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY 

Chas.  H.  Breitbarth,  Business  Manager, 

809  Spring  Garden  Street, 

pbiladelpbfa* 


JBerlin :  mew  J^oth : 

MAYER  &  MOLLER  CARL  A.  STERN 

lonOon : 
KEGAN,  PAUL  TRENCH,  TRCBNER  &  CO.,  Ltd. 


Xefpsfds 

F.  A.  BROCKHAUS 

parts/ 

H.  LeSOUDIER 


£ 

try 


'71. J     <' 


CONTENTS  OF  VOLUME  V. 
Original  Articles. 

PAGES. 

Joseph  G.  Rosengarten.      By  the  Editor 3-8 

Diary  of  Rev.   Andrew  Rudman,  July  25,  1696-June   14, 

1697    (concluded).     Transcribed,   Translated    and 

Edited   from  the    Original    Manuscript  by  Luther 

Anderson,  A.  M 9-18 

Karl  Theodor    Bayrhofer.      Ein    Charakterbild    aus   dem 

Westen  von  Dr.  W.  A.  Fritsch,  Evansville,  Ind.  ,  19-25 

Schwalmer  Hausspriiche.  Collected  by  G.  C.  L.  Schuchard.  26-29 

An    American    Ethnographical    Survey.      Report  by  the 

Director,  M.  D.  Learned 30-53 

Dialectal    Peculiarities   in    the  Carlisle  ( Pa. )  Vernacular. 

By  C.  William  Prettyman 67-79 

Patriotische  Betrachtungen.      By  Otto  Heller 80-104 

Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ontario, 

Canada.      By  C.  L.  Nicolay 105-121 

Francis  Daniel    Pastorius,   the  Founder  of  Germantown. 

By  Marion  Dexter  Learned  ....  131-171,  195-234.  259-293 
Some    Unpublished    Longfellow    Letters.      By   Amandus 

Johnson     172-185 

Konvention  des  Deutsch-Amerikanischen  Central  Vereins 

von  Pennsylvanien 235-248 

Alexander  Reinagle  and  his  Connection  with  the  Musical 

Life  of  Philadelphia.  By  R.  R.  Drummond  .  .  .  294-306 
Provincialisms  of  Southeastern   Pennsylvania.     By  B.  A. 

Heydrick 307-313 


T^  S  \%  \^ 


Reviews. 

PAGES. 

Handbuch    des   Deutschtuins    im  Auslande    nebst   einem 

Adressbuch.der   Deutchen  Auslandschulen  (Wm. 

G.  Bek) 54-55 

Das   Deutschtum  in   Kanada.     Von  Alwin  Oppel  (Wm. 

G.  Bek) 55-57 

Reisebilder  aus  Amerika.  Von  Adam  Roder  (Wm.  G.  Bek)  57 

German    American    Literature.      By   Amelia   von    Ende 

(Wm.  G.  Bek) 58 

Die  Glocke  (Wm.  G.  Bek) 58 

Longfellow   and    German    Romance.     By    Fred    Lewis 

Pattee  (Wm.  G.  Bek) 59 

Americana.     Von  Karl  Lamprecht  (Wm.  G.  Bek)  .    .    .  59-60 

Amerikanische    Eindriicke.     Von    Ludwig  Fulda   (Wm. 

G.  Bek) 61-64 

Personliche  Eindriicke  von  Amerikanischen  Universutaten. 

Von  Alois  Brandl  (Wm.  G.  Bek) 122-123 

Bibliography  of  German    Americana  for  the  Year   1906. 

(Wm.  G.  Bek) 124  128,  249-256,  314-320 


JOSEPH  GEORGE  ROSENGARTEN,  LL.  D. 


(5crman  Qmencan  Qnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


New  Series,  January  and  February  Old  Series, 

Vol.  V.     No.   I.  1907.  Vol.   IX.     No.    I. 


JOSEPH  GEORGE  ROSENGARTEN. 

Chevalier  de  la  Legion  d^Honneur   and  Doctor  of  Laws. 

In  conferring  upon  Joseph  George  Rosengarten  the  honorary 
degree  of  Doctor  of  Laws  on  Washington's  Birthday,  the  Uni- 
versity of  Pennsylvania  gave  expression  to  long  deserved  recog- 
nition of  the  attainments  and  services  of  one  of  Philadelphia's 
most  worthy  and  useful  citizens.  It  seems  a  fitting  time  to  em- 
phasize some  of  the  public  and  private  services  which  prompted 
this  recognition,  even  at  the  risk  of  violating  the  modest  wishes 
of  the  recipient  of  the  honor. 

Dr.  Rosengarten  is  descended  from  German  ancestors.  He 
was  born  in  Philadelphia,  July  14th,  1835.  His  father,  George 
David  Rosengarten,  was  a  native  of  Hesse-Cassel,  and  came  to 
America  in  1819,  at  the  age  of  eighteen,  later  taking  up  his  pro- 
fession as  chemist  in  Philadelphia.  His  mother  was  Elizabeth 
Bennett,  of  Hamburg,  Germany. 

Soon  after  the  discovery  of  quinine,  Mr.  George  D.  Rosen- 
garten, in  182 1,  began  the  manufacture  of  it  as  a  drug. 

(3) 


4  Joseph   George  Rosengarten 

G.  D.  Rosengarten  was  for  many  years  Director  of  the  Penn- 
sylvania Railroad,  and  for  over  fifty  years  Director  of  the  Me- 
chanics Bank.  His  business  is  continued  by  his  sons,  all  of  whom 
studied  abroad.  Samuel  G.,  the  eldest,  studied  chemistry  with 
Professor  Liebig  at  Giessen.  Joseph  G.  studied  Roman  Law  with 
von  Mohl  at  the  University  of  Heidelberg.  Adolph  C.  and  Frank 
H.  also  pursued  the  study  of  chemistry  with  Fresenius  at  Wies- 
baden. 

Joseph  G.  Rosengarten  received  his  early  education  at  the 
Preparatory  School  of  Philadelphia,  then  taught  by  Professor 
Crawford,  and  entered  the  College  of  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, graduating  with  the  degree  of  Bachelor  of  Arts  in  1852,  at 
the  age  of  eighteen.  After  graduation,  he  entered  the  law  office 
of  Henry  M.  Phillips  to  pursue  the  study  of  law.  After  being 
admitted  to  the  Philadelphia  Bar,  he  continued  the  study  of 
jurisprudence  at  the  University  of  Heidelberg  and  began  his  lit- 
erary work  by  contributing  articles  to  the  Philadelphia  Evening 
Journal,  The  Philadelphia  Ledger,  Atlantic  Monthly  and  The 
Nation.  His  literary  articles  and  reviews,  after  his  return  to 
Philadelphia,  brought  him  into  close  touch  with  the  libraries,  and 
he  soon  became  a  member  of  various  library  committees. 

In  1859,  even  before  the  outbreak  of  the  war,  he  had  an  ex- 
citing experience  with  the  participants  of  the  John  Brown  Raid. 
The  incident  is  graphically  described  in  his  own  words  in  the 
Atlantic  Monthly  of  June,  1865.  While  on  a  tour  through 
Virginia,  the  train  was  delayed  at  Harper's  Ferry.  Wishing  to 
occupy  the  time,  Mr.  Rosengarten  went  out  to  view  the  locality, 
but  was  soon  confronted  by  an  officer,  who  asked  for  his  pass. 
Not  able  to  produce  a  pass,  he  was  locked  up  as  it  happened  in 
a  room  next  to  the  one  in  which  John  Brown  was  imprisoned. 
The  officer,  hearing  the  name  of  Rosengarten,  asked  if  he  was 
related  to  the  Rosengarten  in  Philadelphia.  Upon  learning  that 
the  prisoner  was  his  son,  the  officer  replied,  "You're  all  right! 
You  may  pass !  My  father  is  the  druggist  here  in  town  and  I'm 
well  acquainted  with  your  father's  quinine." 


Joseph   George  Rosengarten  5 

At  the  outbreak  of  the  Civil  War,  Mr.  Rosengarten  enlisted 
in  a  local  company  of  Philadelphia  gentlemen,  which  was  sent  to 
Fort  Delaware ;  but  wishing  more  active  service,  he  joined  Col. 
Chapman  Biddle's  121st  Regiment  of  Pennsylvania  Volunteers, 
and  was  made  lieutenant  of  the  Color  Company.  At  the  Battle 
of  Fredericksburg  the  color  bearers  of  the  company  were  shot, 
whereupon  Lieut.  Rosengarten  picked  up  the  colors,  and  carried 
them  in  sharp  action.  For  his  bravery  General  Reynolds  appointed 
him  to  the  rank  of  major  on  his  staff.  At  the  Battle  of  Gettys- 
burg he  directed  one  of  Reynolds'  brigades  the  morning  of  the 
I  St  of  July  and,  after  the  general  was  killed,  brought  the  body 
of  his  fallen  chief  back  to  Lancaster. 

In  the  war  he  made  the  acquaintance  of  the  Comte  de  Paris, 
and  the  Due  d'Orleans,  who  were  on  McQellan's  Staff,  thus  be- 
ginning a  friendship  which  lasted  through  years.  When  the 
Comte  de  Paris  wrote  his  famous  book  on  the  Rebellion,  he  asked 
the  collaboration  of  Mr.  Rosengarten.  His  French  acquaintances 
and  his  correspondence  with  Marquis  de  Rochambeau  were  the 
forerunners  of  the  important  service  which  Mr.  Rosengarten  per- 
formed in  securing  the  purchase  of  the  Rochambeau  Papers  by  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States, 

One  of  the  great  early  services  which  Mr.  Rosengarten  ren- 
dered the  city  was  the  revolutionizing  and  reorganization  of  the 
House  of  Refuge,  by  the  introduction  of  a  humane  method  of 
treating  and  educating  the  unfortunate  children  intrusted  to  the 
care  of  that  institution.  Upon  his  election  as  a  member  of  the  ad- 
ministrative board,  he  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  prison-like 
methods  of  the  institution.  In  order  to  inform  himself  concerning 
the  best  methods,  he  visited  similar  institutions  in  England,  and  on 
the  Continent  of  Europe,  but  found  that  even  there  the  inmates 
were  treated  much  as  convicts.  Returning  home,  he  presented  a 
bill  to  the  Legislature  asking  aid  for  the  removal  of  the  school  to 
the  country.  This  bill  was  passed,  but  vetoed  by  the  governor. 
Not  disheartened,  however,  he  solicited  funds  by  private  subscript- 


6  Joseph    George  Rosengarten 

tion  and  aided  in  collecting  the  sum  of  $500,000  for  the  purpose. 
The  school  was  then  removed  to  Glenn  Mills,  where  adequate 
buildings  were  provided.  The  children  are  now  treated  as  mem- 
bers of  one  great  household,  given  the  rudiments  of  an  education, 
and  the  first  lessons  in  a  number  of  trades.  The  justification  of 
this  reform  is  found  in  the  fact  that  instead  of  relapsing  into 
vice,  some  90  per  cent,  of  these  children  are  now  redeemed  to 
good  citizenship. 

When  Mr.  Drexel  founded  the  Drexel  Institute,  Mr.  Rosen- 
garten was  made  one  of  the  Board  of  Directors.  His  experience 
in  the  humane  enterprises  of  the  city,  and  his  practical  knowledge 
of  books  and  libraries  qualified  him  for  the  position  which  he  still 
holds  as  President  of  the  great  Free  Library  System  of  Philadel- 
phia, Chairman  of  the  Library  Committee  of  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania  and  the  Drexel  Institute,  and  the  prominent  part 
which  he  has  taken  in  the  movement  for  the  Extension  of  Uni- 
versity Teaching. 

In  all  of  these  practical  affairs,  Mr.  Rosengarten  has  main- 
tained his  interest  in  historical  and  scientific  research,  and  has 
given  evidence  of  his  scholarship  in  a  large  number  of  publications. 
Out  of  a  lecture,  delivered  at  the  request  of  the  German  Society, 
many  years  ago,  was  developed  his  book,  "The  German  Soldier  in 
the  Wars  of  America."  From  old  papers  found  during  his  resi- 
dence at  Newport,  he  wrote  an  account  of  the  French  occupation 
of  Newport.  As  the  friend  of  George  Bancroft,  he  rendered 
important  service  to  this  historian's  great  work,  The  History  of 
the  United  States.  After  the  burning  of  the  library  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Strassburg,  in  Alsace,  he  assisted  in  making  a  collec- 
tion of  books  for  the  rehabilitation  of  that  library. 

As  the  son  of  a  Hessian  family,  his  interest  naturally  turned 
to  the  history  of  the  Hessian  soldiers  in  America,  and  he  trans- 
lated in  abridged  form  Max  von  Eelking's  History  of  the  Allied 
German  Forces,  with  the  title  The  German  Allied  Troops  in  the 
North  American  War  for  Independence,  and  wrote  his  Sources 


Joseph   George  Rosengarten  7 

of  American  History  in  German  Archives,  Frederick  the  Great 
and  the  United  States,  Benjamin  Franklin's  Bagatelles,  and  many 
other  monographs.  Thus  it  was  but  fitting  that  he  should  become 
the  first  president  of  the  German  American  Historical  Society, 
which  was  organized  and  incorporated  in  1901. 

He  was  chosen  in  1896  one  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  has  been  devoted  to  the  interests 
of  the  institution  in  all  its  varied  activities.  Unlike  most  men,  he 
has  not  limited  his  interests  to  one  or  two  favorite  subjects.  His 
has  not  been  the  gift  of  buildings  for  a  specific  purpose,  which 
the  passerby  could  see,  but  his  beneficence  has  been  bestowed  on 
many  departments  to  cover  the  hundred  urgent  needs — to  buy 
books  and  apparatus,  to  publish  scientific  results,  to  carry  on 
special  investigation,  to  photograph  and  copy  valuable  manu- 
scripts— all  aids  so  essential  to  scientific  research,  and  aids  which 
the  donor  of  large,  individual  sums,  not  acquainted  with  the 
needs  of  university  work,  often  overlooks  in  endowing  buildings. 
Only  the  giver,  with  scientific  insight,  can  see  the  value  of  Fel- 
lowships, Scholarships,  and  the  hundred  invisible  aids  which  pro- 
mote the  true  progress  of  a  university.  It  is  this  deeper  in- 
sight which  has  made  Dr.  Rosengarten  one  of  the  most  generous 
and  versatile  benefactors  of  the  University,  and  the  departments 
of  History,  Language,  Literature,  Mathematics,  and  Natural 
Science  can  all  testify  to  his  generosity.  Many  of  the  scientific 
enterprises,  which  now  bear  the  name  of  Pennsylvania  far  be- 
yond the  sea,  have  been  made  possible  through  such  varied  gifts. 

When  Mr.  W.  W.  Frazier  severed  his  connection  as  Giair- 
man  of  the  Library  Committee,  it  was  feared  that  no  one  could 
be  found  to  continue  his  generosity  toward  the  Library.  For- 
tunately, Dr.  Rosengarten  was  willing  to  assume  the  burden, 
thus  becoming  the  moving  force  both  in  the  University  Library 
and  the  Free  Library  work. 

The  French  Government  recognized  his  services  to  French 
Language  and  Literature  by  bestowing  upon  him  the  honor  of 


8  Joseph   George  Rosengarten 

Chevalier  de  la  Legion  d'Honneur.  It  is  not  too  much  to  say 
that  his  services  in  promoting  the  interests  of  German  culture 
in  America  have  been  even  greater.  His  subscription 
was  among  the  first  on  the  list  for  the  purchase  of  the  Bech- 
stein  Library.  His  name  is  always  to  be  seen  among  the  sub- 
scribers of  every  good  German  cause.  The  German  Society,  the 
German  American  Historical  Society,  the  United  German  Sing- 
ers, the  German  Publication  Fund,  the  German  Theater,  the 
Germanic  Museum,  and  scores  of  other  German  enterprises 
have  been  recipients  of  his  interest  and  assistance. 


DIARY  OF  REV.  ANDREW  RUDMAN,  JULY  25, 
1696— JUNE  14,  1697. 

1  ranscribed^   Translated  a7id  Edited  From  the  Original 

Manuscript^ 

BY 

Luther  Anderson,  A.  M. 

(Concluded.) 

March  30.  The  same  easterly  wind  continued,  but,  as  it 
was  very  meagre,  we  made  little  progress.  The  day  was  clear  and 
beautiful  most  of  the  time,  but  still  I  had  to  wear  my  wolfskin 
jacket.    Our  latitude  was  49  degrees,  35  minutes. 

March  31.  The  weather  was  beautiful  and  almost  calm. 
What  little  breeze  we  had  was  favorable,  or  SE.  and  S.  by  E.  In 
the  afternoon  we  hove  to  while  the  Commodore  and  our  Captain 
were  at  a  banquet  on  board  a  ship  which  was  about  to  go  with 
some  others  to  West  India,  or  Guiana  and  the  Barbadoes.  Tow- 
ards night  the  wind  began  to  freshen  up  a  little  from  the  south. 

March  31.  When  the  Captain  came  back  the  Commodore 
bought  of  him  for  22  pounds'  Sterling,  a  maid-servant^^  which 
he  had  for  sale  on  our  ship;  for  what  purpose  He  alone  knows 
who  knows  shamelessness. 

April. 
April  I.     The  wind  was  slow,  and  began  to  shift  to  the  east. 


"Either  a  slave  or  an  indentured  servant 

(9) 


lo  Diary  of  Rev.  Andrezv  Rndman 

April.  2.  In  the  afternoon  the  wind  chansfed  to  SE.,  and  in 
the  night  a  good  breeze  began  to  blow,  east  and  ENE.  We  went 
six  and  a  half  miles  an  hour,  and  could  have  gone  more,  if  the 
fleet  had  not  hindered  us.  In  order  to  wait  for  them  we  had  to 
shorten  sail  and  sail  thus  all  day  the  3d. 

April  2.  Four  ships  left  us,  bound  for  the  Barbadoes  and 
Guiana.  They  gave  us  a  farewell  salute,  which  our  Commodore 
answered. 

April  3.  There  was  a  fine,  even  east  and  NE.  wind. 

April  3.  Our  latitude  was  47  degrees.  7  minutes.  From  12 
o'clock  of  the  3d  to  T2  o'clock  of  the  4th  we  sailed  159  miles. 

April  4.  Which  was  Easter  Sunday,  the  same  wind  contin- 
ued, and  was  good  and  strong.  God  be  praised. 

April  4.  Mr.  Corbin  preached  on  the  ship.  Text,  Mark 
16:10. 

April  5.  The  same  wind  continued,  and  to-day  we  sailed 
174  miles,  and  could  have  gone  too  miles  further  if  the  fleet  had 
not  delayed  us. 

April  5.  We  took  an  observation  and  found  our  latitude  to 
be  45  degrees,  9  minutes.  To-day  our  Commodore  captured  a 
prize,  a  flyboat.  bound  for  Newfoundland,  having  a  cargo  of  salt, 
wine  and  French  brandy. 

April  6.  Our  Commodore  chased  another  French  ship,  and 
returned  with  it  on  the  7th.  It  was  a  half-caper,  carried  8  gims. 
had  a  crew  of  24  men,  and  was  loaded  with  salt,  wine  and  brandy. 
It  was  a  beautiful  ship  of  the  French  type.  The  flyboat  was  of 
Dutch  make,  probably  taken  from  them  by  the  Dutch. 

April  6  and  7.  The  same  wind  continued,  but  began  to  die 
down  gradually.  In  the  night  the  wind  turned  to  the  south,  and 
on  the  8th  we  had  a  hard  storm.  We  were,  nevertheless,  able  to 
keep  our  course.  In  the  afternoon  the  wind  shifted  to  the  south- 
west, or  straight  against  us ;  therefore,  we  had  to  sail  NW.  by  W. 

April  9.  The  weather  became  quite  warm,  and  everybody 
had  to  take  off  his  wolfskin  jacket.    The  crew  thought  we  must  be 


Diary  of  Rev.  Andrezv  Rudman  ii 

near  Newfoundland  Bank,  judging  from  the  foggy  weather,  for 
the  weather  is  continually  foggy  on  this  bank.  We  were  told 
that  this  bank  is  over  500  leagues  from  Lizard. 

April  9  and  ID.  The  wind  was  again  from  the  south,  and 
the  weather  was  dismal  and  foggy.  The  wind  was  so  dull  that  we 
could  not  sail  more  than  two  and  a  half  miles  an  hour  at  most, 
although  we  carried  all  our  sails. 

April  II.  The  first  Sunday  after  Easter.  We  got  a  strong 
wind  from  the  south  in  the  afternoon.  We  then  sailed  W.  by  S., 
going  about  five  and  a  half  to  six  miles  an  hour ;  but  this  did  not 
last  long.  After  that  we  could  not  sail  more  than  three  to  three 
and  a  half  miles  an  hour.  Towards  night  the  wind  turned  to  SW., 
and  increased  to  a  gale. 

April  II.  I  gave  Mr.  U.  C.  Corkshatt  a  Meditation  Con- 
cerning the  Imparting  of  the  Confidence  in  Christ,  which  I  wrote 
to-day.  I  also  wrote  a  hymn,  beginning,  'Tdel  nig  i  evighet." 
It  is  sung  to  the  same  melody  as  the  hymn  beginning  "O  Gud,  O 
Gud  sa  from." 

April  12.     In  spite  of  the  fog,  we  were  able  to  take  the 

height  of  the  sun,  which  was S^**,  30 

To  which  is  added  the  declination  of  the  sun  for  that 

day '^^^, 

Which  gives  latitude 44°-  59 

April  12.  The  weather  was  very  foggy,  and  the  same  con- 
trary wind  continued.  At  midnight  there  arose  a  terrible  storm 
just  like  the  one  we  had  under  Skagen  at  Jutland,  if  not  worse. 
The  waves  rose  to  an  awful  height,  the  sea  became  white  and  was 
driven  before  the  wind  like  snow.  This  storm  continued  on  the 
13th  all  day;  it  hailed  and  the  weather  was  very  cold. 

April  12.  Just  before  this  terrible  storm  came,  we  saw  four 
or  five  St.  Elmo's  fires,  or  Castor  and  Pollux.  They  burned  as 
bright  as  lanterns.  The  crew  knew  at  once  what  it  meant,  namely, 
that  a  storm  was  brewing.  But,  God  be  praised,  we  lost  nothing 
in  this  storm,  only  our  dog-vanes,  which  were  blown  to  pieces. 


12  Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew  Rudtnan 

One  may  judge  how  high  the  waves  were  from  the  fact  that  when 
we  were  down  between  them  I  could  see  neither  the  sails  nor  the 
tops  of  the  masts  nor  anything  else  of  the  ship  which  was  only  two 
or  three  gunshots  away  from  us,  and  was  a  full  rigged  three- 
master.  But  I  have  seen  the  wonders  of  God  in  the  sea,  for  I  saw 
large  ships  rocking  between  mountains  of  water  like  little  yawls, 
and  when  the  waves  beat  against  the  ship  it  creaked  so  that  I 
thought  every  joint  would  break.  But,  God  be  praised,  for  He 
held  the  ship  together  and  made  it  strong.  The  storm  began  to 
abate  a  little  in  the  night,  so  that  we  could  shake  out  reefs  and  get 
under  way  at  lo  o'clock  on  the  14th.  We  sailed  northward  to  find 
the  fleet,  and  at  seven  o'clock  we  went  about  and  sailed  SSW.,  for 
we  could  hardly  go  farther  north.  We  were  then  ten  ships.  We 
did  not  see  the  other  three. 

April  15.  The  same  wind  continued,  but  was  very  mild. 
We  hove  to  and  waited  for  the  other  ships. 

April  15,     The  day  was  clear,  and  we  took  the  height  of  the 

sun  and  got 300,  44' 

Declinatio  solis 13°,  ^9' 

Latitude  44°,    3' 

Towards  night  the  same  contrary  wind  began  to  blow;  we 
sailed  S.  by  W.  and  SSW. 

April  16.  The  wind  increased,  so  that  we  had  to  shorten  sail 
in  the  afternoon  and  heave  to.  In  the  night  there  was  another 
severe  storm,  in  which  the  ship  pitched  terribly.  One  wave  broke 
over  the  quarter  deck,  swept  the  whole  deck,  and  dashed  against 
the  gallery  so  hard  that  we  thought  the  ship  was  going  to  break 
to  pieces.  The  salt  (water)  came  in  through  the  gallery  and  spark- 
led on  the  floor  like  fire.^^  Before  this  I  had  not  seen  the  Calvin- 
istic  preachers  touch  their  prayer-books,  but  now  they  fell  to 
praying  in  earnest,  and  kept  it  up  all  night.  I  did  not  mind  the 
storm,  but  delivered  myself  up  to  God  and,  trusting  in  Him,  I 


From  the  phosphorescence. 


Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew  Rudman  13 

lay  down  to  sleep,  in  Jesus'  name,  and  slept  all  night,  except  when 
the  ship  struck  heavily  against  the  waves;  then  I  would  awake, 
a  little  frightened,  and  breathe  a  prayer,  after  which  I  would  go 
to  sleep  again. 

April  18.  The  wind  went  down  a  little,  and  we  were  able 
to  get  under  way.  We  sailed  by-the-wind.  We  took  an  observa- 
tion, and  found  our  latitude  to  be  49°'  29'. 

April  19  and  20,  The  weather  was  calm.  Later  a  breeze 
sprang  up,  and  we  were  able  to  keep  our  course,  W.  by  S.,  SW., 
etc. 

April  20.  I  had  my  arm  lanced,  on  account  of  a  fever  and 
burning  in  the  head.  The  blood  looked  healthy,  nor  could  we  no- 
tice any  excessive  heat  in  it,  God  be  praised.  May  God  grant  that 
this  lancing  may  benefit  me.  Mr.  Belthasar  Emrich,  the  doctor 
on  the  ship,  did  the  lancing.  He  is  a  Swede,  born  in  Stockholm, 
The  same  day  the  bosons  caught  a  very  large  turtle,  a  strange 
looking  fish,  having  four  feet  like  fins  and  a  head  like  that  of  a 
parrot.  It  was  large  and  round,  like  "Unnbulla',"  the  shell  was 
hard  as  iron. 

April  23,  The  weather  was  perfectly  calm;  just  before  noon 
it  rained  a  little.  Towards  evening  a  gentle  breeze  sprang  up 
from  the  east,  at  which  we  rejoiced.  The  sky  looked  as  if  we 
would  have  a  steady  strong  wind.  Our  hopes  were  high,  but  in 
the  night  the  wind  shifted  to  the  SW.,  and  on,  the  24th  toWNW., 
increasing  more  and  more,  so  that  on  Sunday,  the  25th,  we  had  a 
hard  storm,  much  worse  than  the  one  we  had  before.  It  rained, 
and  when  the  clouds  came  it  blew  terribly. 

April  26.  The  wind  went  down  a  little,  so  that  we  could 
carry  the  lower  sails.  In  this  way  we  went  straining  against  the 
wind,  but  were  able  to  keep  our  course. 

April  27.  In  the  morning  we  had  a  fine  ENE.  wind.  May 
God  grant  that  it  may  be  steady.  But  it  did  not  last  longer  than 
that  day.  Then  we  got  a  west  wind,  against  which  we  had  to 
tack ;  it  continued  the  rest  of  April. 


14  Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew  Rudman 

May. 

May  I.  We  got  a  tolerable  wind,  and  were  able  to  keep  our 
course ;  but  towards  evening  it  shifted  to  the  west  again.  This 
wind  continued  on  the  2d,  which  was  the  fourth  Sunday  after 
Easter. 

May  2.  We  saw  sdmle  huge  fishes,  whales.  Sometimes  they 
would  show  their  tails,  which  were  two  or  three  yards  broad, 
above  the  water. 

May  3.  We  had  a  north  wind,  and  sailed  westward.  Later 
the  wind  shifted  to  the  east. 

May  3,  4,  5,  6,  we  had  a  good  side  wind,  most  of  the  time 
from  SSE.    We  sailed  a  good  distance  in  this  wind. 

May  6.  Towards  noon  we  had  hard  weather,  with  light- 
ning, thunder  and  rain.  Just  after  noon  the  weather  became  fine, 
and  a  breeze  sprang  up  from  the  south.  The  squall  we  had  was 
from  SW.  by  SSW. 

May  8.  Three  of  our  masts  broke,  the  mizzen  mast,  the 
main  mast  and  the  top  mast.  We  quickly  raised  and  adjusted 
other  masts  in  their  places  on  the  8th  and  9th. 

May  7  and  8.  The  same  wind  continued.  On  the  9th, 
which  was  Ember-Day,  the  wind  shifted  to  NW.  and  continued 
thus  until  the  loth. 

May  10.  Our  latitude  was  35^,  30'.  We  were 
accordingly  farther  to  the  south  than  we  ought  to  be  ;  there- 
fore, we  changed  our  course  more  to  the  west.  According  to  our 
reckoning,  we  were  about  100  miles  from  land. 

May  II.  The  sky  was  clear  and  the  weather  beautiful. 
This  continued  on  the  12th,  when  there  was  a  dead  calm. 

May  13.  We  had  a  SSE.  wind,  at  which  we  rejoiced.  It 
began  to  blow  more  and  more,  so  that  on  the  14th  we  had  a  strong 
wind,  with  rain  and  fog.  In  the  afternoon  it  began  to  clear  up, 
and  the  wind  shifted  to  SSW.  and  SW.  by  S. 

May  14.  We  saw  grass  and  occassionally  branches  of  trees 
in  the  water.    We  also  saw  land  birds.    From  these  things,  aside 


Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew  Rudman  15 

from  our  reckonings,  we  judged  that  we  were  not  far  from  land. 
But  later  we  found  out  that  we  were  farther  than  we  thought. 
According  to  the  reckonings  of  the  Commodore,  and  all  the  mates 
of  the  whole  fleet,  we  ought  to  be  at  the  end  of  our  voyage,  and 
— yet  we  did  not  sight  land.  Sometimes  we  had  good  breezes, 
but  still  we  were  so  far  from  land  that  we  could  not  get  soundings. 
This  false  reckoning  they  attributed  to  the  difficulty  of  allowing 
for  the  ocean  current,  and  to  the  fact  that  we  had  often  waited 
for  the  other  ships. 

May  16.  Which  was  the  sixth  Sunday  after  Easter,  we  had 
another  little  breeze,  but  it  died  down  on  the  17th.  We  had  fine 
summer  weather  all  the  time;  sometimes  we  had  a  good  breeze, 
but  it  was  soon  followed  by  beautiful  calm  weather.  This  kind 
of  weather  prevailed  almost  the  whole  month,  but  the  wind  was 
contrary  most  of  the  time,  either  from  the  west  or  south. 

May  22.  The  night  before  Pentecost,  there  was  a  great 
deal  of  thunder  and  lightning.  The  thunder  was  not  so  loud  as 
I  have  often  heard  it  in  Sweden,  but  the  lightning  was  terrible. 
The  wind  was  NW.,  and  remained  so  all  day  Pentecost,  and  also 
the  next  day.  We  then  saw  a  water-spout.  It  drew  the  water 
up  out  of  the  sea  into  the  sky.  The  boatswain  said  that  it  was  a 
small  one  compared  to  one  he  had  seen  between  the  Canary 
Islands  and  Spain. 

Note. — Water-spouts  are  so  strong  that  if  a  ship  comes  un- 
der them  they  will  draw  it  up,  or  at  least  capsize  it.  If  the  water- 
spout breaks  and  falls  it  will  crush  the  ship. 
After  this  we  had  calm,  quiet  weather. 
May  27.  We  fell  in  with  two  other  ships.  They  were  from 
Ireland.  The  second  one  came  to  us  on  the  28th,  and  informed 
us  that  according  to  their  reckoning,  they  had  still  80  leagues  to 
go. 

May  29.  We  met  a  little  ship  called  a  brigantine,  from  Vir- 
ginia, bound  for  England.  They  informed  us  that  they  had 
sailed  from  there  on  the  25th,  and  that  they  now  reckonned  50 
leagues  from  land.    God  be  praised  for  this  good  news. 


1 6  Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew  Rudman 

Note. — During  the  calm  weather  we  caught  some  fish,  a 
sea-dog,  some  dolphins  (they  look  something  like  salmon,  are 
gold-colored  and  speckled  like  salmon-trout).  Mr.  Bordley  shot 
an  albacore,  but  we  did  not  get  it  because  of  the  speed  of  the 
ship. 

There  was  such  a  dearth  of  tobacco  on  the  ship  that  they 
scraped  the  bark  from  the  hoops  of  barrels  and  smoked  it.  They 
also  smoked  the  stems  of  raisins.  They  gave  two  biscuits,  with 
pork  and  meat,  for  a  pipe  of  tobacco.  But  when  the  brigantine 
came,  everybody  got  tobacco  enough. 

May  27.  A  gentle  breeze  came  up  from  the  east,  which 
continued  on  the  28th  and  began  to  increase  a  little  on  the  30th. 

May  30.  At  12  o'clock  P.  M.,  we  got  sounding  in  24  fath- 
oms.   We  were  then  very  glad. 

May  31.     We  sighted  land  at Island.    God  be  praised 

that  we  at  last  have  come  so  near ;  but  because  the  wind  was  SSE. 
and  we  were  too  far  north  we  did  not  get  to  see  Cape  Charles; 
neither  could  we  head  up,  but  had  to  take  a  leg  out  to  sea  again. 

June. 

June  I.  We  came  towards  land  again,  but  did  not  come 
any  nearer  catching  our  prey  than  before;  but  we  were  a  little 
farther  to  the  south. 

June  2.  We  approached  the  cape  again.  In  the  afternoon 
a  fine  breeze  sprang  up,  and  we  heaved  anchor;  we  had  dropped 
it  a  little  during  the  ebb  of  the  tide.  We  approached  land  and 
came,  God  be  praised,  to  the  James  River. 

Note. — They  tell  us  that  it  has  often  happened  that  ships 
not  being  able  to  get  inside  the  cape,  have  been  driven  to  sea 
again,  and  have  not  been  able  to  get  in  for  five  or  six  weeks. 
Therefore,  it  is  so  much  more  incumbent  upon  us  to  give  very 
humble  thanks  to  God,  who  so  conveniently  brought  us  in.  Ever- 
lasting glory  be  to  God  alone!    Amen. 

June  3.  We  heaved  anchor  and  sailed  farther  up  the  James 


Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew  Riidman  17 

River  to  the  Commodore  and  the  other  ships.  The  next  day  we 
went  ashore.  Going  up  into  the  woods,  we  found  a  beautiful 
sycamore,  under  which  we  fell  upon  our  knees  and  praised  God  for 
his  protection  and  prayed  for  further  help  and  support.  We  re- 
mained ashore  over  night,  and  went  aboard  the  next  day.  The 
soil  was  sandy,  a  little  mixed  with  mold,  and  very  fertile.  We 
saw  oaks,  sycamores,  ash  trees,  bird  cherries,  walnut  trees  and 
mulberry  trees.  The  mulberries  were  good.  I  saw  some  squir- 
rels, a  large  ugly  snake,  beautiful  song  birds,  swallows  (the  swal- 
lows are  more  grayish  and  have  a  coarser  voice  than  those  in 
Sweden),  jays,  thrushes,  jackdaws,  small  birds,  etc.  I  recognized 
some  species  of  grass  as  hieracium,  pseudocamedrys,  veronica, 
etc.  But  I  saw  many  kinds  of  grasses  that  I  have  never  seen  be- 
fore, concerning  which,  God  willing,  I  shall  learn  more  in  the 
future. 

June  II.  I  was  ashore  on  the  other  side  while  the  Captain 
was  at  the  court  or  council  which  the  Governor  held  concerning 
the  ships  and  their  freighting  in  the  Tanna  river,  where  the  fort 
is.  The  weather  was  fine.  There  we  ate  a  lot  of  mulberries, 
which  agreed  with  us  all  except  that  they  acted  as  a  laxative. 
Some  of  the  people  living  here  said  that  they  give  them  the 
cholera  morbus  if  they  eat  too  much  of  them. 

June  14.  We  left  the  river  (James)  because  our  Captain 
found  out  that  we  could  get  no  cargo  there,  and  directed  our 
course  up  the  bay  to  Maryland.  We  did  not  get  far  that  day. 
During  the  night  a  strong  storm  arose,  NE.  by  N.,  and,  therefore, 
we  had  to  ride  at  anchor  on  Friday,  the  15th.  Towards  evening 
the  wind  went  down  and  on  the  i6th,  about  noon,  when  the  tide 
came  in,  we  proceeded  a  little  with  the  wind  E.  by  NE. 

(This  is  the  last  entry  of  the  diary.) 


1 8  Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew  Rudman 

(Other  Documents  in  the  Diary.) 

As  the  Reverend  Mr.  Andrew  Georanson'-'  hath  resided  for 
some  time  past  near  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  it  hath  been  my  for- 
tune to  be  some  time  in  his  company,  and  so  far  as  I  have  known, 
or  heard,  his  conduct  and  behavior  have  been  regular  and  laudable. 

Philadelphia,  April  28,  1780. 

James  Hamilton. 

The  Reverend  Mr.  Georanson  who  hath  resided  in  Philadel- 
phia ever  since  the  year  1767  brought  letters  of  recommendation 
to  me  from  the  honorable  Thomas  Penn,  Esq.,  one  of  the  proprie- 
tors of  Pennsylvania,  in  the  year  1770,  likewise  produced  letters 
of  recommendation  from  the  Consistory  of  Upsal  in  Sweden.  As 
he  has  now  a  design  of  returning  to  Sweden,  I  do  hereby  certify 
that  his  conduct  during  his  Residence  here  hath  been  exemplary 
and  becoming  his  Profession,  so  far  as  hath  come  to  my  knowl- 
edge. 

Philadelphia,  April  28th,  1780. 

John  Penn. 

'^Rev.  Andrew  Georanson  was  sent  over  from  Sweden  in  1766  ;  became 
rector  of  Wicaco  church  in  1768  ;  officiated  until  the  close  of  1779  ;  returned 
home  in  1785;  died  in  1800— Clay,  Annals  of  the  Swedes  on  the  Delaware. 

Thomas  Penn  (1702-1775),  second  son  of  WiUiam  Penn,  founder  of  Penn- 
sylvania, by  his  second  wife,  Hannah  Callowhill. 

John  Penn  (i  729-1 795),  eldest  son  of  Richard  Penn,  and  grandson  of 
William  Penn.  He  was  appointed  by  his  father  and  his  uncle  Thomas  Penn  to 
be  lieutenant-governor  of  the  colony  of  Pennsylvania  in  1763;  he  retained  his 
post  until  Oct.  16,  1771,  and  resumed  it  1773-6.  He  died  in  Philadelphia  Feb. 
10,  1795- 


KARL  THEODOR  BAYRHOFFER. 

Kin  Charakterbild  aus  dem  Westen  von 
Dr.  W.  a.  Fritsch^  Evansville,  Ind. 

I. 

Der  Philosoph  im  Hinterwalde. 

Die  Farmen  mit  ihren  schmucken  Hausern  und  Wirth- 
schaftsgebauden,  welche  die  Reisenden  vom  Eisenbahnzuge  aus, 
in  den  mittleren  und  westlichen  Staaten  Amerikas  erblicken,  sind 
grosstenteils  iiber  das  Griindungsstadium  hinaus  und  lassen  nur 
errathen,  mit  welchen  Schwierigkeiten  dieselben  vor  50  Jahren 
aus  dem  jungfraulichen  Boden  mit  zuweilen  starkem  Holzbestand 
hergerichtet  und  gebaut  wurden.  Die  deutschen  Emigranten, 
welche  hierher  in  die  Freiheit  fliichteten,  waren  mit  keinen  beson- 
deren  Gliicksgiitern  ausgestattet :  wohl  ihnen,  wenn  sie  eine  gute 
Gesundheit  und  ein  paar  starke  Arme  zur  Arbeit  mitbrachten. 
Gehorten  sie  dem  Gelehrtenstande  an,  so  mussten  sie  sich  erst  an 
die  Handarbeit  gewohnen,  und  das  war  keine  Kleinigkeit.  Es 
legten  sich  von  den  studirten  Achtundvierzigern,  welche  zu  An- 
fang  der  fiinfziger  Jahre  vorigen  Jahrhunderts  nach  Amerika  ka- 
men,  auch  nur  wenige  auf  den  Landbau,  ihre  Hande  waren  nicht 
fest  genug,  den  Pflug  zu  meistern  und  den  rauhen  Boden  zu  be- 
stellen.  Die  jugendlichen  Reformers  wollten  auch  hier  lieber  das 
grosse  Wort  fiihren,  wie  in  Deutschland,  und  stiirzten  sich  in 
Zeitungsunternehmungen  oder  in  die  politische  Arena,  wo  sie 
sich  zuweilen  vermassen,  alteren  Ansiedlern  ihre  oft  unklaren, 
radikalen  Vorschlage  aufzudringen.  Da  war  es  kein  Wunder, 
wenn  es  zwischen  den  Grunen  und  Grauen  oft  zu  Auseinander- 
setzungen  kam  und  Jahre  dariiber  hingehen  mussten,  bis  diese 
Gegensatze  ausgeglichen  wurden,  um  dann  zum  gemeinsamen 
Wirken  vorgehen  zu  konnen. 

(19) 


20  Karl  Theodor  Bayrhoffer 

Der  Mann,  dessen  Lebenslauf  wir  hier  in  Kiirze  schildern 
wollen,  gehorte  nicht  zu  dieser  Sorte  junger  Weltverbesserer,  er 
nahm  es  von  Anfang  an  sehr  ernst  mit  der  Lebensaufgabe  hier, 
und  wollte  erst  einmal  festen  Boden  unter  den  Fiissen  haben, 
ehe  er  sich  der  Lehrthatigkeit  wieder  zuwandte.  K.  Th.  Bayr- 
hoffer, geboren  in  Marburg,  am  14.  Oktober  1812,  war  in  seiner 
Vaterstadt  als  ordentlicher  Professor  der  Philosophic  an  der  Uni- 
versitat  angestellt,  als  er  zum  Mitgliede  der  Kurhessischen  Stan- 
deversammlung  gewahlt  wurde  und  mit  seinem  Gesinnungsge- 
nossen  Dr.  Gottlieb  Theodor  Kellner  zusammenwirkte.  Seine 
Theilnahme  an  der  sogenannten  lichtfreundlichen  Bewegung  und 
an  der  Politik  seines  engeren  Heimatlandes,  zogen  ihm  Verfol- 
gungen  zu,  denen  er  sich  1852  durch  die  Auswanderung  nach 
Amerika  entzog.  In  dem  siidlichen  Wisconsin,  bei  Monroe  in 
Green  County,  Hess  er  sich  als  Farmer  nieder  und  lebte  hier  sieb- 
zehn  Jahre  mit  Frau  und  Kindern  still  fiir  sich,  als  einfacher 
Farmer  im  Hinterwalde.  Otto  Niemeier,  welcher  Bayrhoffer  mit 
einem  Empfehlungsschreiben  des  Abgeordneten  Wriesberg  von 
der  alten  Heimath  bald  nach  seiner  Niederlassung  aufsuchte,  hat 
eine  humoristische  Schilderung  iiber  diesen  Besuch  fiir  den  ersten 
Band  des  „Deutschen  Pioniers"  geschrieben.  Er  fand  endlich 
nach  langem  Suchen  des  Professors  Farm  und  ihn  selbst  beim 
Kiihemelken.  Da  die  Schweine  ins  Kornfeld  ausgebrochen  wa- 
ren,  so  mussten  dieselben  zuiiickgetrieben  werden  und  der  Pro- 
fessor ertheilte  ihm,  auf  das  Loch  zeigend,  wo  sie  durchgegangen 
waren,  die  Belehrung :  „Es  ist  Gesetz  der  Schweine  und  Gespen- 
ster,  wo  sie  hineinspazirt  sind,  da  miissen  sie  auch  hinaus."  An 
dieser  Schweinehatz  betheiligte  sich  Otto  Niemeier  nun  mit  den 
iibrigen  Familienmitgliedern  und  dafiir  ward  ihm  auch  ein  kraf- 
tiges  Mahl  sowie  ein  gastliclies  Bett  in  dem  einfachen  Blockhaus 
zu  Theil.  Das  Terrain  mit  seinen  Hohen  und  Felsgestein  ent- 
lockte  Otto  Niemeier  einige  Bewunderung,  worauf  die  Frau  Pro- 
fessorin  mit  einer  weiteren  Belehrung  fiir  ihn  bemerkte:  „So 
dachte  mein  Mann  auch,  als  er  die  Farm  kaufte;  jetzt  meint  er, 
er  habe  das  physikalische  Gesetz,  wonach  zwei  Korper  nicht  den- 


Karl  Theodor  Bayrhofier  21 

selben  Raum  einnehmen  konnen,  wohl  gekannt,  aber  schlecht  an- 
gewandt.  Wir  hatten  bedenken  sollen,  dass  auf  den  Bergen  die 
Freiheit  wohnt;  also  kann  kein  Korn  dort  wachsen.  Die  Gottin 
wohnt  rentefrei  bei  uns;  wir  aber  haben  diese  Praxis  theuer  be- 
zahlen  miissen.  Romantik  ist  ein  hiibscher  Nachtisch,  wenn  man 
satt  ist."  Bayrhoffer  ist  denn  atich  in  spaterer  Zeit,  im  Jahre 
1874,  als  er  schon  iiber  sechzig  war,  auf  die  Prarie  gezogen  und 
hat  auf  einer  Farm  bei  Tonica  in  Illinois  seine  freie  Zeit  dazu 
angewandt,  um  vor  deutschen  Farmern  belehrende  Vortrage  zu 
halten  und  zu  schriftstellern. 

II. 

Volksphilosoph  und  Schriftsteller. 

Die  ersten  Zeiten  in  Amerika  waren  miihevolle,  arbeits- 
schwere  Jahre  gewesen,  da  ein  gut  Theil  praktischer  Kenntnisse 
gesammelt  werden  mussten,  um  einigermassen  Erfolg  zu  haben. 
Bayrhoffer  hatte  sich  dieser  Thatigkeit  denn  auch  mit  Fleiss  hin- 
gegeben,  die  Politik  bot  damals  wenig  Erfreuliches  und  der  Fort- 
schrittsfreund  musste  auf  bessere  Zeiten  warten.  Die  kamen  ja 
auch,  als  die  republikanische  Partei  geboren  wurde  und  der 
Kampf  gegen  die  Sklaverei  ernstlich  betrieben  werden  konnte. 
Bayrhoffer  schloss  sich  dieser  Partei  an,  half  bei  der  Erwahlung 
Lincolns  und  unterstiitzte  die  Unions-Partei  gegen  die  Rebellion. 
Sein  altester  Sohn  Karl  zog  als  Freiwilliger  mit  in  den  Krieg. 
Als  dann  der  Friede  wieder  hergestellt  war,  ging  Bayrhoffer 
iiber  die  Grenzen  seiner  Partei,  hinaus  zu  weiterer  Reformarbeit. 
In  den  Jahren  1869  und  1870  hielt  er  Vortrage  vor  Farmern  auf 
der  Prarie  bei  Peru  in  Illinois  und  an  einigen  anderen  Orten. 
Aus  diesen  Vortragen  entstand  das  Buch :  „Das  IVcscn  des  Uni- 
versums  und  die  Gesetse  des  Hwnanismns,  darf^estellt  aus  dent 
Standpunkt  der  Vernunff,  von  K.  Th.  Bayrhoffer;  gedruckt  bei 
Denhard  und  Witte,  Ottawa,  Ills.,  1871."  Das  Buch  giebt  in  ge- 
drangter  Uebersicht  eine  klare  Darstellung  vom  Universum  und 
der  Gesetze  des  Humanismus,  wie  sie  sich  der  Autor  vorstellte. 


22  Karl  Theodor  Bayrhoffcr 

In  seinen  Vortragen  vor  Farmern  hatte  er  die  einzelnen  Ab- 
schnitte  jedenfalls  weiter  ausgearbeitet  und  seinen  Zuhorern 
deutlicher  gemacht.  ~  Bayrhoffer  war  schon  in  Deutschland  be- 
miiht  gewesen,  die  Wissenschaft  ins  Volk  zii  tragen.  Professor 
Leo  in  Halle  hatte  in  seinem  Buche  Die  Hegelingen  mit  Anderen 
auch  Bayrhoffer  und  dessen  Buch  Die  Idee  und  Geschichte  der 
Philosophie  den  deutschen  Regierungen  dentinzirt,  weil  darin  be- 
tont  war:  ,,Die  Philosophie  miisse  sich  mehr  herabsenken  in  die 
konkreten  Spharen  des  Lebens  und  der  empirischen  Wissen- 
schaft." In  Marburg  und  Umgegend  hatte  er  schon  in  den  vier- 
ziger  Jahren  vor  Biirgern  und  Bauern  freie  Vortrage  gehalten. 
die  ihn  damals  auf  die  Anklage-Bank  gebracht  batten.  An  diese 
Thatigkeit  kniipfte  er  nun  auf  der  Prarie  in  Illinois  wieder  an 
und  wirkte  durch  sein  Buch  auch  in  weiteren  Kreisen.  Sehr  ver- 
breitet  ist  das  Werkchen  nicht  worden,  es  haftet  hier  alien  unse- 
ren  deutschen  buchhandlerischen  Untemehmungen  die  Unfertig- 
keit  an.  Es  ist  auch  in  anderen  Dingen  so.  der  moderne  Fort- 
schritt  grenzt  mitunter  noch  an  das  Mittelalter.  Trotz  der  Setz- 
maschinen.  welche  in  Amerika  von  dem  Deutschen  Mergenthaler 
erfunden  wurden,  trotz  der  vollendetsten  Druck-  und  Falz-Ma- 
schinen,  werden  viele  Zeitungen  noch  mit  Handpressen  und  in 
wahrhaft  primitiver  Weise  zum  Druck  gebracht.  Der  deutsche 
Schriftsteller  hat  hier  mit  undenklichen  Schwierigkeiten  zu  kam- 
pfen.  Druck  und  Verbreitung  erinnern  noch  an  die  ersten  Zeiten 
des  Buchdrucks  in  unsern  deutschen  Kreisen.  Ein  deutscher 
Autor  in  Amerika,  will  er  hier  seine  Arbeit  in  die  Oeffentlichkeit 
bringen.  geht  zu  einem  Zeitungsherausgeber  oder  in  eine  Drucke- 
rei  und  macht  einen  Kontrakt,  ihm  soviel  hundert  Exemplare  ge- 
gen  eine  bestimmte  Summe  Geldes  zu  drucken.  Hat  er  seine 
Biicher  in  den  Handen,  so  muss  er  den  Verkauf  selbst  besorgen, 
Er  schickt  davon  nach  grossen  Stadten  oder  ins  Land,  wo  Deut- 
sche wohnen,  an  Zeitungsherausgeber,  Buchhrindler,  Apotheker 
u.  s.  w.  Exemplare  seines  Buches  und  verlasst  sich  auf  ihre  Mit- 
wirkung.  um  grosstentheils  darin  getauscht  zu  werden.  Schliess- 
lich  sucht  er  selbst  an  den  Mann  zu  bringen,  was  er  kann  und 


Karl  Theodor  Bayrhoffer  23 

muss  dann  zufrieden  sein,  wenn  er  die  Druckkosten  wieder  zu- 
riickbekommt.  So  geht  es  den  meisten  deutschen  Schriftstellern 
in  der  Union  und  Ausnahmen  von  der  Regel  giebt  es  nur  sehr 
wenige. 

Auch  Dan.  Holly  bei  Peru,  Illinois,  welcher  mit  anderen  Far- 
mern  Druck  und  Verbreitung  des  Buches  Das  Wesen  des  Univer- 
sums  von  K.  Th.  Bayrhoffer  unternommen  hatte,  ist  es  nicht 
besser  ergangen,  obwohl  das  Werk  eine  bessere  Aufnahme  ver- 
dient  hatte. 

III. 

Bayrho-ffer  zwrsus  Heinsen. 

Bayrhoffer  war  kranklich  geworden ;  er  litt  an  einem  chroni- 
schen  Magenleiden  und  in  Folge  dessen  an  korperlicher 
Schwache,  sodass  es  ihm  unmoglich  wurde  zu  reisen  und  Vor- 
trage  zu  halten,  obwohl  sein  Geist  ungeschwacht  blieb.  So  ar- 
beitete  er  denn  fiir  verschiedene  Blatter,  welche  von  seinen  Bei- 
tragen  profitirten,  da  er  immer  etwas  zum  Nachdenken  gab  und 
auf  seine  Leser  anregend  wirkte.  In  Deutschland  waren  schon 
friiher  in  der  philosophischen  Monatsschrift  von  Bergmann  einige 
Abhandlungen  aus  seiner  Feder  erschienen,  in  welchen  er  sich  von 
Hegel  losgesagt  hatte  und  seine  neu  gewonnenen  Ansichten  dar- 
legte.  Danach  waren  ihm  die  Religionsansichten  der  Menschen 
vielfach  eine  Welt  unwissenschaftlicher,  menschlicher  Phantasie 
und  er  verlangte,  dass  die  wissenschaftliche  Erkenntniss  an  deren 
Stelle  gesetzt  werde,  in  einem  Bunde  des  empirischen  und  philo- 
sophischen Denkens.  Fiir  Harris'  Journal  of  Speculative  Philos- 
ophy schrieb  er  die  Abhandlungen  The  Idea  of  Matter  und  The 
Idea  of  Mind.  Waren  diese  Arbeiten  mehr  fiir  Gelehrte  be- 
stimmt,  so  bleibt  er  doch  auch  wieder  seiner  Maxime  treu,  fur 
Popularisirung  seiner  erkannten  Ideen  zu  sorgen. 

In  der  Neuen  Zeit,  einer  gediegenen  Zeitung  New  Yorks. 
welche  aber  nur  von  kurzem  Bestand  war,  veroffentlichte  er  Auf- 
satze  iiber  die  Frauenfrage,  in  welchen  er  sich  der  Frauen  an- 
nahm  und  ihre  Rechte  befurwortete.    Die  Illinois  Staatszeitung, 


24  Karl  Iheodor  Bayrhoffer 

Der  Freidcnkcr,  Socialist  und  andere  Blatter  enthielten  sachliche 
und  zum  Denken  anregende  Aufsatze  iiber  die  Arbeiterfrage. 
Doch  am  interessantesten  waren  seine  Auseinandersetzungen  mit 
Karl  Heinzen  im  Pionier  iiber  Sozialismus  iind  Kommunismus. 
Es  ist  behauptet  Avorden,  die  Sozialdemokratie  sei  ein  Produkt 
der  grossen  Stadte  und  Fabriksdistrikte,  wo  die  Arbeiter  durch 
Noth  zu  Reformen  gedrangt  worden  seien.  Hier  kam  nun  ein 
Professor  der  Philosophic  auf  seiner  Farm  im  Hinterwalde  auf 
ahnliche  Gedanken,  welche  er  dann  in  seiner  Schrift :  Das  Wesen 
dcs  Universums  wissenschaftlich  ordnete  und  sie  in  verschie- 
denen  Aufsatzen  vertrat,  wodurch  er  mit  dem  radikalen  Heinzen 
in  einen  Federkrieg  verwickelt  wurde.  Heinzen,  der  Verfasser 
der  radikalen  Plattform,  war  ein  Verfechter  des  Individualismus, 
seine  stramme  Personlichkeit  hatte  sich  nie  unter  die  Herrschaft 
des  Kommunismus  gebeugt,  denn  in  seinen  Augen  war  Sozial- 
demokratie und  Kommunismus  eins.  Bayrhoffer,  mehr  mild  ge- 
stimmt,  dabei  doch  fest  in  seinen  Ansichten,  versuchte  auf  den 
Kern  der  Sache  einzugehen.  Man  miisse  auch  in  sozialen  Fragen 
eine  Idee  vor  Augen  haben.  mit  blossem  ,,Flicken"  komme  man 
nicht  zum  Ziele.  Bayrhoffers  Vorschlag  bestand  darin,  dass 
Wirthschaftskommunen  sich  ausbreiten  miissten  iiber  Stadt  und 
Land,  um  die  Produktion  zu  iibernehmen,  dass  der  Arbeiter  dem 
Kapitalisten  und  Eigenthiimer  der  Fabrik  gegenuber,  nicht  mehr 
im  Riickstande  stehe  und  ihm  sein  gerechter  Lohn  zutheil  werde. 
Dem  absoluten  Kommunismus  war  auch  Bayrhoffer  nicht  zuge- 
than.  Doch  Heinzen  bestand  auf  seiner  Ansicht,  er  verlangte 
Bayrhoffer  sollte  ihm  an  einem  Beispiel  klar  machen,  z.  B.  zeigen 
wie  man  in  New  York  diese  Wirthschaftskommunen  einrichten 
konne.  worauf  ihm  dieser  erwiderte:  ,,Wollen  Sie  den  sogenann- 
ten  Kommunismus  und  die  Sozialdemokratie  wirklich  widerlegen, 
dann  widerlegen  Sie  die  Schriften  Diihrings.  Horen  Sie  auf, 
allerhand  Analogien  fitr  den  Kampf  herbeizuziehen,  gehen  Sie 
vielmehr  direkt  auf  das  System  der  Wirthschaftskommunen  mit 
seiner  ganzen  demokratischen  Umgebung  los  und  lassen  Sie  das- 
selbe  in  Flammen  aufgehen,  sodass  die  Menschheit  ein  schones 


Karl  Theodor  Bayrhoffe^  25 

Schauspiel  daran  hat."  So  wogte  der  Kampf  hin  und  her,  an 
Aussohnung  oder  Vergleich  war  iiicht  zit  denken,  nur  die  Leser 
hatten  den  Vortheil  und  konnten  die  Argumente  Beider  abwagen. 
Heinzen  war  iibrigens  in  dieser  Kontroverse  nicht  so  diktatorisch, 
wie  sonst  wohl,  er  wusste,  dass  er  einen  ebenburtigen  Gegner 
hatte  und  einen  Mann,  der  es  sonst  gut  meinte.  Aber  so  ganz 
ohne  Invektiven  ging  es  doch  nicht  ab,  so,  wenn  Bayrhoffer 
meinte:  „Sie  hangen  die  Kratze,  wie  alle  Reaktionare,  der  So- 
zialdemokratie  an,  um  sie  kratzen  zu  konnen",  und  Heinzen  ihm 
erwiderte :  „Er  moge  es  ihm  nicht  zu  sehr  erschweren,  zwi- 
schen  ihm  und  den  anderen  kommunistischen  Gegnern  zu  unter- 
scheiden." 

Die  beiden  Disputanten  sind  schon  lange  zur  ewigen  Ruhe 
gebettet,  wie  auch  Eugen  Richter,  der  grosse  Parlamentarier  des 
Deutschen  Reichstages,  welcher  einst  gegen  Lasalle  und  Bebel 
schrieb  und  in  seinen  Sozialdemokratischen  Zukunftsbildern  das 
leistete,  wozu  Heinzen  Professor  Bayrhoffer  angehalten  hatte, 
freiHch  um  zu  zeigen,  wie  unpraktisch  und  unausfiihrbar  der 
Kommunismus  ist. 


SCHWAELMER  HAUSSPRUECHE. 

Was  unsere  neue  Heimat  von  unserer  alten  so  wesentlich  un- 
terscheidet,  ist  der  in  Deutschland  auf  einen  hohen  Grad  ent- 
wickelte  Individualismiis  g-egeniiber  der  amerikanischen  Einfor- 
migkeit  und  Eintonigkeit.  Nicht  mir  jeder  deutsche  Staat  ist  von 
dem  anderen  verschieden,  sondern  jede  Stadt,  jede  Landschaft, 
jeder  Flecken  und  jedes  Dorfchen  hat  ein  eigenes  Gesicht,  das 
dem  geiibten  Physiognom  eine  lange  Geschichte  von  der  Ent- 
wicklung  eines  Charakters  erzahlt. 

Dieser  Individualismiis  der  verschiedenen  Staaten  und  Ge- 
meinden  ist  auf  s  Engste  verbunden  mit  dem  Individualismus 
des  Einzelnen,  sei  er  Fiirst,  Ritter,  Burger  oder  Bauer.  Jeder 
hat  seinen  eigenen  Charakter  und  lasst  ihn  bewusst  oder  unbe- 
wusst  zur  freien  Geltung  nach  aussen  kommen,  z.  B.  durch  den 
Bau  seines  Hauses,  das  gerade  seinen  Bediirfnissen  entspricht, 
durch  seine  Kleidung,  die  seinen  Geschmack  zeigt,  u.  dgl.  m. 

Eine  der  Gegenden  Deutschlands,  wo  die  individuelle  Eigen- 
tiimhchkeit  der  Bewohner  vornehmlich  ausgepragt  ist,  liegt  in 
Hessen-Cassel  und  ist  das  liebliche  Schwalmtal.  Dort  finden  wir 
noch  die  alten  malerischen  Trachten,  dort  singt  man  noch  die 
alten  Volkslieder,  und  dort  sind  die  Dorfbilder  noch  nicht  durch 
rote  Backsteinhauser  nach  dem  in  der  Grunderzeit  so  beliebt  ge- 
Mresenen  und  noch  nicht  ganz  tiberwundenen  Schema  mit  dem 
Motto  ,,billig  und  schlecht"  verschandet  worden.  Dort  konnen 
wir  auch  sehen,  wie  die  scharf  ausgepragte  Eigenart  der  Ge- 
meinden  Hand  in  Hand  mit  der  scharf  ausgepragten  Eigenart 
der  Einzelnen  geht,  oder  eigentlich  von  dieser  bedingt  ist.  Das 
zeigt  sich  dem  Besucher  z.  B.  durch  den  grossen  Reich  turn  der 
verschiedenen  Fornien  von  Haus,  Stall  und  Scheune,  die  bei 
jedem  Hof  wieder  neu  und  eigenartig  ausgepragt  sind  —  nichts- 
destoweniger  aber  in  ihrer  Gesammtheit  eine  Harmonic  ergeben. 


Schwaelmer  Haussprueche  27 

Von  der  Schwalmer  Bauart  iind  ihren  Eigentumlichkeiten 
kann  ich  nun  leider  keine  Vorstellung  geben,  da  ich  zu  wenig 
mit  Bautechnik  vertraut  bin.  Doch  habe  ich  mir  bei  meinen  wie- 
derholten  Besuchen  in  dieser  Gegend  einige  Haiisspriiche  notirt, 
die  meine  Behaiiptung  von  der  Eigenart  erharten  sollen. 

Die  Haiisspriiche  sind  im  deiitschen  Dorfe  etwas  Selbstver- 
standHches,  doch  sind  es  gewohnlich  fromme  Spriiche,  die  der 
Bibel  oder  dem  Kirchenlied  entlehnt  sind  und  so  nur  wenig  von 
dem  Charakter  des  Hausbesitzers  verraten.  In  der  Schwalm 
jedoch  finden  wir  diese  immerwiederkehrenden  Spriiche  und 
Reime  nur  ganz  vereinzelt.  An  ihre  Stelle  ist  das  eigene  Wort 
des  Erbauers  oder  jeweiHgen  Besitzers  getreten  — sicherlich  ein 
vollgiiltiger,  ja  wiinschenswerter  Ersatz. 

So  fand  ich  in  Leinefelde  folgenden  Vers,  dessen  humor- 
voiles,  stolzes  Selbstbewusstsein  keinen  Kommentar  braucht : 

Die  einz'ge  Frau,  die  sagen  kann, 

Ich  hab'  erbaut  den  dritten  Bau, 

Ist  Margarete  Lingemann, 

Des  Bauherrn  zweite  Ehefrau. 

Sie  kann  erzahlen,  was  es  kostet, 

Wie  sehr  die  Hausfrau  ist  geplagt, 

Die  Wiirste  sind  nicht  gerostet, 

Es  hat  auch  manchen  schonen  Taler  gekostet; 

Wenn  ihr's  nicht  glaubt,  geht  hin  und  seht. 

Ueber  einem  Pferdestall  war  dieser  Reim : 

Hafer  und  Heu, 

Das  ist  die  beste  Futterei, 

Und  ein  munt'rer  Knecht  dabei. 

Im  selben  Orte  fand  ich  noch  folgende  Spriiche : 

Es  its  kein  besser  Ding  noch  List, 
Als  wer  seiner  Zunge  Meister  ist. 


28  Schwaelmer  Haussprueche 

Und: 

Ein  guter  Ruhm,  der  wahr  ist, 
Ein  Essen,  das  fein  gar  ist, 
Ein  Weib,  das  guter  Haar  ist, 
Und  nnter  zwanzig  Jahr'  ist: 
Wenn  dieses  beisammen  da  ist, 
Das  heisst  ein  Gliick,  das  rar  ist. 

An  einem  Haiise  hatte  sich  ein  Leinefelder  Dorfkiinstler 
mit  einigen  Blumenstocken  in  schonen  irdenen  Topfen  verewigt. 
Daneben  stand  dieser  treffliche  Reim: 

Blumen  malen  ist  gemein, 
Aber  den  Geruch  zu  geben, 
Das  kann  Gott  allein. 

Alts  Steina  ist  der  folgende  schone  Spruch : 

Besiehe  deinen  Lebenslauf : 
Der  Mensch  geht  wie  die  Rose  auf, 
Und  fallet  wie  die  Blatter  ab, 
Wenn  man  dich  tragi  in  das  Grab. 

In  Schonborn  fand  ich  mit  der  Jahreszahl  1764: 

Leide,  meide,  schweig',  vertrage, 
Jedem  deine  Not  nicht  klage. 
An  dem  Hochsten  nicht  verzage. 

Und  aus  dem  Jahre  1834: 

Denen  soil  die  Sonne  scheinen. 
Die  es  treu  imd  redlich  meinen; 
Denen  ist  der  Mond  verdeckt, 
Den'n  der  Schalk  im  Herzen  steckt. 


Schwaelmer  Haussprueche  29 

Hochst  originell  ist  jedenfalls  dieser  Vers,  der  iiber  einer 
Schlafkammer  eines  Bauernhauses  in  Gunkelshausen  steht: 

Lass'  der  Welt  ihr  Recht,  — 

Hier  liegt  der  Bauer  und  auch  der  Knecht, 

Ihr  Weltweisen,  tret'  herbei, 

Sagt  mir,  welches  der  Herr  oder  Knecht  mag  sein. 

Leider  hatte  ich  zit  wenig  Zeit,  um  meine  Sammlung  noch 
zu  vergrossern.  Doch  hoffe  ich  auch  mit  diesem  Wenigen  eine 
Vorstellung  von  der  Eigenart  der  Schwalmer  wenigstens  unge- 
fahr  gegeben  zu  haben.  Sollte  mein  kleiner  Aufsatz  gar  in  einem 
der  Leser  die  Lust  erwecken,  selbst  nach  den  Eigentiimlichkeiten 
des  primitiven  Landvolkes  zu  forschen,  so  wiirde  meine  geringe 
Mtihe  reich  belohnt  sein, 

G.  C  L.   SCHUCHARD. 

School  of  Philosophy,  Columbia  University. 


AN  AMERICAN  ETHNOGRAPHICAL  SURVEY. 

The  plan  of  an  American  Ethnographical  Survey  has  been 
evolving  for  a  decade  and  a  half.  In  the  year  1888  the  present 
writer  published  a  comparative  study  of  the  dialect  of  the  Ger- 
mans of  Pennsylvania,  basing  his  results  upon  data  collected 
in  the  Rhenish  Palatinate  in  their  relation  to  the  German  dialect 
spoken  in  Pennsylvania.  At  that  time  it  became  clear  that  even 
in  the  German  population  of  the  State  more  or  less  sharply 
defined  dialect  territories,  or  speech  islands,  still  existed.  Some 
ten  years  later  a  definite  plan  was  formulated  for  special  investi- 
gation not  only  into  the  language,  but  also  into  the  other  cul- 
tural survivals  of  the  Germans  in  this  country.  Circulars  were 
accordingly  issued  from  time  to  time  in  the  quarterly  Americana 
Germanica,  asking  for  answers  to  specific  inquiries  touching 
these  subjects.  Meanwhile  much  progress  had  been  made  by 
other  countries  in  this  and  related  fields.  The  growing  activity 
of  the  various  Ethnological  and  Ethnographical  Societies  of 
Europe,  England  and  America  had  made  continuous  advance 
in  many  directions.  The  epochal  work  of  Wencker,  conducted 
under  the  patronage  of  the  German  Government  and  with  the 
co-operation  of  some  thirty  thousand  German  schoolmasters 
and  published,  in  part,  in  Wencker's  Sprachatlass,  marking  the 
present  boundaries  of  the  German  dialects  of  the  lower  and  mid- 
del  Rhine  the  commission  appointed  to  establish  the  boundary  line 
of  German  and  French  speech  as  spoken  along  the  Franco-Ger- 
man border  and  the  dialect  studies  in  Switzerland  represented  in 
the  Schweizerisches  Idiotikon  and  the  more  recent  collections 
of  Swiss  German  texts  found  in  Sutermeister's  M un dart-Lit era- 
tuTj  as  well  as  related  studies  in  the  dialects  of  other  German 
(30) 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  31 

provinces,  all  placed  the  Germans  in  the  forefront  of  such  philo- 
logical and  glottographical  studies.  Then  followed  meanwhile 
the  mammoth  plan  of  the  English  Dialect  Dictionary  under  the 
editorship  of  Professor  Wright,  successor  to  the  chair  so  long 
held  by  Professor  Max  Miiller.  In  1898  the  following  great 
societies  of  England, 

The  Anthropological  Institute, 

The  Folklore  Society, 

The  Society  of  Antiquaries  of  London, 

The  Royal  Statistical  Society, 

The  Dialect  Society, 

The  Cambrian  Archaeological  Society, 

The  Society  of  Antiquaries  of  Scotland, 

The  Royal  Irish  Academy, 
united,  under  the  auspices  of  the  British  Association  for  the 
Advancement  of  Science,  in  the  projection  of  an  "Ethnographical 
Survey  of  the  United  Kingdom,"  following  up  the  work  of  the 
Photographic  Survey  of  Birmingham  and  other  places.  This 
Survey  contemplated  the  examination  of  some  three  hundred 
and  fifty  selected  centres  throughout  the  United  Kingdom  and 
issued  circulars  soliciting  information  concerning  the  following 
general  subjects : 

1.  ^Physical  Types  of  the  Inhabitants. 

2.  Current  Traditions  and  Beliefs. 

3.  Peculiarities  of  Dialect. 

4.  Monuments  and  Other  Remains  of  Ancient  Culture. 

5.  Historical  Evidences  as  to  Continuity  of  Race. 
Closely  related  to  the  researches  in  the  English  dialects,  a 

number  of  Americans  organized  the  American  Dialect  Society 
for  the  purpose  of  studying  American  English.  One  of  the 
officers  of  this  Society,  Professor  George  Hempl,  set  about  the 
study  of  the  territorial  distribution  of  English  dialects  in  the 
United  States. 


32  An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

In  April,  1902,  the  present  writer  presented  the  plan  of  an 
American  Ethnographical  Survey  before  the  general  meeting 
of  the  American  Philosophical  Society.  The  plan  was  definitely 
formulated  and  a  sum  of  money  was  collected  under  the  auspices 
of  the  German  American  Historical  Society  and  the  German 
American  Alliance  and  an  expedition  was  sent  out  during  the 
summer  of  1902  to  investigate  the  history  and  condition  of  th^ 
German  and  other  settlements  of  Pennsylvania  and  to  furnish 
incidentally  accurate  data  for  an  estimate  of  the  cost  of  such  a 
survey,  extending  over  the  entire  State,  The  results  of  this  sur- 
vey were  most  gratifying  and  encouraged  the  representatives 
of  the  enterprise  to  present  a  bill  asking  for  State  aid  to  the 
amount  of  twenty  thousand  dollars  to  defray  the  expenses  of  an 
Ethnographical  Survey  of  Pennsylvania.  This  bill,  not  appear- 
ing to  have  a  commercial  value,  was  stifled  in  the  committee. 
Another  opportunity,  however,  was  offered  by  the  Executive 
Committee  of  the  Pennsylvania  Commission  of  the  Jamestown 
Exposition  (of  which  Governor  Pennypacker  was  President)  to 
incorporate  some  of  the  ideas  of  the  Survey  in  the  Pennsylvania 
History  Exhibit  at  the  Jamestown  Exposition. 

Character  and  Plan  of  Survey. 

The  term  "Ethnographical"  instead  of  "Ethnological"  was 
selected  because  the  Survey  has  the  clearly  defined  character  of 
a  Culture  Census,  and  differs  accordingly,  from  all  preceding 
surveys  both  in  aim  and  method.  It  will  be  admitted,  doubtless, 
by  most  specialists  in  these  lines,  that  much  of  the  ethnological 
and  ethnographical  work  done  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  has 
been  more  or  less  antiquarian  in  character  with,  to  be  sure,  here 
and  there  many  brilliant  comparative  studies  of  specific  subjects. 
It  will  be  noted  that  even  the  proposed  Ethnographical  Survey 
of  the  United  Kingdom,  referred  to  above,  selected  certain  central 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  33 

points  for  its  inquiry,  instead  of  sweeping  the  entire  territory 
of  the  relatively  small  compass  of  the  British  Isles,  with  a  view 
to  mapping  and  charting  the  speech  and  culture  boundaries  and 
overlappings.  The  American  Ethnographical  Survey,  on  the 
contrary,  contemplates  a  sweeping  and  exhaustive  examination 
by  the  census  method  of  the  entire  territory  selected  and  the 
collection  of  all  available  data  relating  to  public  and  private  docu- 
ments, domestic  occupations,  trades  and  industries,  geographical 
distribution  of  race  elements,  education,  politics,  and  sociology, 
language,  literature,  architecture,  and  domestic  life;  and  upon 
the  basis  of  these  data  the  construction  of  maps,  charts,  and 
tables,  illustrating  the  migration  and  interaction  of  the  several 
race  elements  in  the  American  population  and  thus  furnish  a 
culture  census  of  the  country  at  large. 

The  terms  "American,"  "American  people,"  "American 
Nation,"  "American  Commonwealth,"  are  stupendous  composites 
and  mean  something  different  in  every  State  of  the  Union.  There 
has  been  a  strong  tendency  among  writers  of  American  History 
to  treat  the  History  of  the  United  States  as  a  more  or  less  con- 
sistent whole.  Fortunately  special  investigation  is  tending  toward 
one  of  two  extremes,  namely,  toward  purely  documentary  his- 
tory on  the  one  hand  or  toward  antiquaria^n  local  study  on  the 
other.  It  can  hardly  be  said  as  yet  that  we  have  entered  the  field 
of  culture  history  as  a  distinct  science,  save  in  the  field  of  the 
aboriginal  races.  There  is  manifest  to  be  sure  an  interest,  more 
keen  than  well-informed,  in  the  general  race  problems  of  Amer- 
ica. Such  works  as  Houston  Stewart  Chamberlain's  recent 
study  of  the  Heirs  of  the  Ages,  and  Michaud's  article  in  a  re- 
cent volume  of  the  Century  are  based  either  upon  very  gen- 
eral phenomena  or  upon  insufficient  data,  so  that  both  method 
and  generalizations  are  often  wide  of  the  truth.  The  broad 
philosophical  generalization  is  interesting  in  itself,  but  has  no 
scientific   value   unless   based    upon   specific   and    accurate   and 


34  An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

minute  data.  The  composite  photograph  presents  an  interesting 
picture  as  the  camera  reproduces  composite  types,  but  we  have 
no  evidence  that  such  a  composite  has  been  or  ever  will  be  re- 
produced by  the  processes  of  natural  generation.  Nature  repro- 
duces varieties  by  processes  as  yet  imperfectly  understood  and 
makes  combinations  by  laws  as  yet  only  dimly  apprehended  and 
in  all  of  her  reproductive  processes  manifests  a  principle  of  evo- 
lution giving  endless  variety  without  perhaps  a  single  case  of 
exact  duplication. 

If  we  wish  to  know  what  the  influences  of  a  given  race 
element  or  of  a  group  of  race  elements  in  their  interaction  are  in 
the  process  of  naturalization,  why  should  we  go  to  those  remote 
periods,  which  have  left  but  scanty  records  of  their  events,  while 
the  greatest  naturalization  process  the  world  has  ever  known  is 
now  going  on  before  our  eyes  in  our  own  land,  offering  an  un- 
told wealth  of  fact  only  awaiting  the  investigator?  If  we  wish 
to  trace  the  influence  of  the  Jew  upon  the  history  of  commerce, 
trade,  and  finance,  the  inexhaustible  sources  of  material  in  Amer- 
ican history  furnish  the  inquirer  with  materials  far  richer  than 
those  scanty  records  of  the  Middle  Ages.  If  we  wish  to  test 
the  persistence,  endurance,  commercial  or  industrial  prowess  or 
the  state  craft  or  intellectual  fibre,  the  moral  or  physical  character 
of  a  given  nationality,  where  can  it  be  more  advantageously 
studied  than  in  this  seething  cauldron,  which  is  doing  over  the 
nationalities  of  the  old  world  into  the  commonwealths  and  free 
republics  of  America? 

It  is  a  striking  fact  that  we  are  relatively  more  thoroughly 
informed  concerning  the  culture  of  the  aboriginal  races  of  Amer- 
ica than  about  those  more  recent  peoples,  who  have  built  up  the 
life  and  institutions  of  the  American  Republic.  Of  these  various 
nationalities  which  have  planted  the  seeds  of  a  new  civilization 
in  American  soil  and,  by  the  blending  of  ethnical  traditions,  pro- 
duced a  type  of  civilization,  which  bids  fair  to  outrank  the  vener- 
able culture  of  the  Old  World,  we  have,  at  best,  only  general 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  35 

documentary  information.  What  accurate  data  have  we  in  de- 
tail of  the  life  even  of  the  successors  of  the  Puritans  in  New 
England,  of  the  Cavaliers  of  Virginia,  of  the  Dutch  on  the  Hud- 
son, of  the  Swedes  on  the  Delaware,  of  the  French  in  Louisiana 
and  in  the  Mississippi  Valley  and  in  Canada,  of  the  Spaniards 
in  the  South  and  Southwest,  of  the  Germans,  who  have  in  the 
course  of  a  century  and  a  half  grown  to  a  tenth  of  our  popula- 
tion, and  in  the  various  States  of  the  Union  engrafted  a  new 
culture  upon  our  English  stalk  and  bid  fair  in  the  near  future 
to  bring  the  great  American  Republic  into  cultural  rivalry  with 
the  great  German  Empire?  While  we  have  scanty  information 
of  these  older  race  elements  in  our  population,  we  are  still  more 
scantily  instructed  as  to  the  actual  significance,  tendencies,  and 
possibilities  of  more  recent  immigrations,  such  as  the  Hungarians, 
Poles,  Italians,  Russian  Jews,  and  hosts  of  others,  who  are  now 
the  main  stays  in  many  of  our  industrial  interests. 

It  is  well  known  that  whole  districts  of  many  of  our  large 
cities  are  occupied  by  these  newly  imported  foreign  elements, 
speaking  their  own  language,  retaining  their  own  habits  of  life, 
and,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  forming  miniature  foreign  set- 
tlements under  the  protection  of  the  American  flag.  What  do 
we  know  of  the  actual  process  by  which  these  elements  are 
Americanized  ?  It  is  possible,  that  in  the  near  future  a  President 
with  a  German,  Italian  or  other  foreign  name  may  sit  in  the 
White  House,  just  as  now  a  Knickerbocker  directs  the  Ship  of 
State;  but  of  the  circuitous  course  leading  from  the  Bowery,  or 
the  corner  fruit  stand,  to  Congress  or  the  White  House,  we  have 
as  yet  but  an  inadequate  account. 

Then,  too,  the  relative  efficiency  of  these  race  elements 
requires  investigation.  Their  capacity  for  adaptation  to  new 
conditions  is  varied,  their  religious,  moral,  ethical,  social,  and 
political  points  of  view  are  of  the  greater  importance  in  the 
growth  of  American  institutions.  In  a  general  way  we  are 
most  ready  to  pass  judgment  and  form  generalizations  upon  the 


36  An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

relative  merits  of  the  respective  nationalities,  but  it  must  be 
evident  to  every  careful  observer  that  present  conditions  alone 
are  not  safe  indications  of  race  tendencies  which  have  developed 
during  the  course  of  one  or  more  generations  and  that  the  real 
interpretation  of  the  race  propensities  can  be  determined  only 
by  historical  treatment  of  the  life  of  these  nationalities  from  and 
even  before  their  arrival  upon  American  shores. 

Culture  Census. 

It  is  doubtless  sufficiently  clear,  that  a  thorough  analysis 
and  interpretation  of  the  civilization  of  our  American  Republic 
cannot  be  made  until  a  systematic  plan  for  collecting  data,  both 
in  the  present  and  earlier  periods  has  been  inaugurated.  The 
proposed  American  Ethnographical  Survey  presents  such  a  plan. 
The  work  is  to  be  conducted  after  the  manner  of  a  census,  and 
to  be  divided  into  two  separate  problems,  both  of  which  could  be 
solved  at  the  same  time. 

The  first  phase  of  the  work  contemplated  is  a  Race  Census, 
representing  the  ethnical  distribution  and  cultural  characteristics 
of  the  population  as  it  now  exists;  and  upon  the  basis  of  the 
data  thus  collected  the  construction  of  an  Ethnographical  Map, 
showing  not  only  the  numbers  of  the  several  foreign  elements, 
which  can  be  gained  roughly  from  the  United  States  Census,  but 
also  the  specific  cultural  features  of  these  race  elements,  such  as 
language,  occupation,  industrial  distribution,  as  they  actually 
exist. 

The  second  phase  of  the  survey  consists  in  collecting,  in 
connection  with  the  census  above  mentioned,  all  available  data 
for  the  reconstruction  of  the  race  conditions  in  the  earlier  periods 
of  our  history.  One  most  important  result  of  this  work  would 
be  the  construction  of  an  Ethnographical  Census  of  the  colonial 
period,  together  with  race  maps  showing  the  distribution  of 
the  foreign  elements  in  different  epochs  of  the  colonial  period. 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  37 

thus  furnishing  the  now  missing  census  up  to  the  time  of  the  first 
systematic  census  made  by  the  government. 

In  connection  with  this  census  and  series  of  ethnographical 
maps  it  will  be  possible  to  show  the  causes  influencing  the  geo- 
graphical distribution  of  these  various  nationalities  in  the  Amer- 
ican colonies  and  to  trace  their  migration,  by  the  closer  study  of 
local  geography  and  official  and  private  documents,  such  as  land 
warrants,  deeds,  tax  lists,  military  rolls,  and  the  like,  and  thus 
present  graphically  to  the  eye  the  results  of  the  interaction  of 
geographical  industrial,  commercial,  and  economic  conditions  in 
the  respective  periods  and  localities. 

The  Preliminary  Survey. 
The  Conestoga  Expedition,  1902. 

In  the  summer  of  1902  a  preliminary  test  of  this  survey 
was  made  by  the  inauguration  of  the  Conestoga  Expedition.  The 
work  of  the  expedition  was  limited  for  the  most  part  to  those 
parts  of  interior  Pennsylvania  first  settled  by  the  Germans.  The 
plan  of  work  was  to  select  a  small  territory,  which  could  be  com- 
passed within  the  brief  space  of  the  vacation,  and  to  make  a 
thorough  house-to-house  canvass.  Specific  question  blanks  were 
prepared  in  advance,  asking  for  the  name  of  the  owner  or  tenant, 
of  the  wife  and  the  earlier  members  of  both  sides  of  the  family, 
the  origin  of  the  respective  branches  of  the  family,  the  names 
and  number  of  children,  the  type  of  house  and  barn,  the  present 
and  traditional  occupation  of  the  family,  the  religious  persuasion, 
the  habit  of  dress,  the  political  and  social  attitude,  beliefs  and 
superstitions,  physical  and  other  family  traits,  the  language,  the 
fare  and  mode  of  cooking,  education,  etc. 

As  a  result  of  this  thorough-going  inspection  a  great  mass 
of  interesting  and  valuable  material  was  collected  and  is  now 
presented  in  brief  form.  From  the  data  thus  obtained,  it  is 
possible  to  make  many  generalizations. 


38  An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

In  the  settlement  of  a  new  country  geography,  both  pohtical 
and  physical,  plays  an  important  role,  determining  to  a  great 
degree  the  distribution  of  the  population.  Political  geography,  in 
turn,  often  undergoes  great  changes  in  consequence  of  its  own 
original  determinative  influence  upon  early  settlement.  The 
United  States,  as  related  in  the  colonial  period  to  the  geography 
of  Spain,  England  and  France,  will  furnish  a  good  example  of 
this.  The  Civil  War,  partly  racial  and  social,  and  partly  industrial 
and  economical,  will  furnish  another  instance  in  which  the  at- 
tempt to  change  geographical  boundaries  proved  futile.  Indeed, 
the  race  factor,  apart  from  the  part  of  the  negro,  in  the  Civil 
War,  still  awaits  adequate  treatment.  The  influence  of  the 
Germans  in  forming  the  flame  of  abolition  sentiment  and  in 
actually  aiding  in  the  victories  of  the  North  were  most  signifi- 
cant. The  great  force  of  the  German  press  of  America  in  the 
hands  of  men,  who  had  themselves  sought  political  liberty  in  the 
new  Republic,  was  directed  against  the  institution  of  slavery. 

Physical  Geography.  The  selection  of  a  place  of  settlement 
is  determined  to  a  great  extent  by  physical  geography.  The 
quality  of  the  soil,  the  location  of  waterways,  valleys  and  moun- 
tains— all  influence.  Accordingly  the  Conestoga  Expedition 
found  ample  material,  showing  how  these  geographical  forces 
had  aflfected  the  distribution  of  race  element?  In  the  fertile 
arable  lands  of  the  valleys  were  found  the  thirfty  German 
farmers.  In  the  mine  regions,  where  iron  and  other  ores  made 
mining  profitable  in  the  colonial  period,  were  found  the  Welsh. 
In  the  regions  where  distilling  was  in  vogue  was  the  Irishman. 
In  the  centres  of  industry  and  trade  and  on  the  frontiers  of  en- 
terprise were  found  the  Englishman,  the  Yankee  and  the  Scotch 
Irishman. 

The  landmarks  of  these  early  settlements  are  still  preserved 
in  the  local  geography,  in  the  names  of  persons  and  places. 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  39 

Personal  Names.  It  is  a  striking  fact  that  the  country 
regions,  notwithstanding  the  flux  and  flow  of  population  inci- 
dent upon  modern  progress,  have  retained  conservatively  the 
names  of  the  ealier  families.  The  proportion  of  family  names 
represented  in  the  districts  examined,  was  as  follows : 

In  the  Township. 

Proportion  of  German  names  in  100.  ...  79 
Proportion  of  English,  etc.,  names  in  100.  19 
Proportion  of  French  names  in  100. .... .     2 

100 
Place  Names.  In  the  case  of  place  names  the  German  was 
found  in  many  instances  still  in  local  use,  although  the  map  no 
longer  has  any  trace  of  the  German  name,  but  employs  the  more 
recent  English  instead.  Of  local  names  still  found  on  the  map 
and  indicating  original  race  settlements,  the  following  are  sig- 
nificant : 

1.  Names  of  foreign  places  whence  the  settlers  came. — 
Strashurg,  Heidelberg,  Manheim,  Litits,  Lancaster,  York,  Little 
Britain,  Caerenvon,  Colerainey,  Dunmore,  Cumberland,  Done- 
gal, Conroy. 

2.  Names  pointing  to  Biblical  traditions  of  the  sects. — 
Bethlehem,  Nazareth,  Lebanon,  Gnadenhiitten,  Emaus,  Ephrata, 
Mt.  Nebo,  Bethesda;  of  also  Eden,  Providence,  Paradise. 

3.  Locol  Color.  Hosensack,  Klafferthal,  Hesseldal,  German 
Valley,  Grofsteddel,  Habentown,  Schafersteddel. 

Census  of  the  Conestoga  Expedition^  1902. 

A  preliminary  report  of  the  Conestoga  Expedition  was  pub- 
lished in  the  first  number  of  German  American  Annals,  Jan. 
1903.  Since  that  time  the  statistics  gathered  have  been  collated 
and  may  be  presented  more  in  detail.  It  is  the  more  opportune 
that  these  statistics  should  now  take  the  form  of  an  official  report, 
since  the  work  of  the  survey  has  found  a  wider  recognition  in 


40  An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

the  State,  in  the  appointment  of  its  Director  and  Albert  Cook 
Myers  to  prepare  the  Pennsylvania  History  Exhibit  at  the  James- 
town Exposition  of  1907.  What  the  original  Conestoga  Expedi- 
tion inaugurated  will  thus,  in  an  extended  form,  find  expression 
in  a  series  of  historical  maps,  showing  the  movements  and  racial 
elements  of  the  population  of  Pennsylvania  and  Western  Mary- 
land and  the  great  valley  of  Virginia.  To  the  results  as  repre- 
sented in  these  maps,  the  independent  studies  of  Mr.  Myers  in 
constructing  maps  showing  frontier  lines  of  settlement  have  been 
an  important  contribution. 

The  work  of  the  Conestoga  Expedition  centered  in  the 
Conestoga  and  Pequea  Valleys  of  Lancaster  County,  more  par- 
ticularly in  the  Township  of  Strasburg,  of  which  a  careful, 
cultural  census  was  made,  with  a  view  to  showing  the  actual 
survivals  of  the  life  of  the  original  settlers,  the  statistics  for 
which  will  be  given  farther  on.  In  addition  to  these  statistics, 
investigations  were  carried  on  in  various  directions  throughout 
the  country  by  the  several  members  of  the  expedition.  Much  of 
this  work  is  still  going  on,  and  will  be  published  in  more  extended 
form  when  completed.  Another  member  of  the  expedition,  John 
A.  Bole,  made  a  thorough  investigation  at  his  own  expense  of 
the  history  of  the  German  Community  Settlement  at  Ecomemy, 
Pa.,  the  results  of  which  have  been  published  in  the  German 
American  Annals^  and  are  reprinted  in  a  volume  of  the 
Monograph  Series,  Americana  Germanica. 

CULTURAL  CENSUS  1902. 

Strasburg  Stasburg 

Borough  Township 

Families 233^ 335 

/               f  German 141 242 

.   .                       I    Man    \  Swiss 16 16 

Ongm   (as    de-    \              [  other' 48 52 

termined     by    (  > 

census  taker)     )              I  German 122 213 

f    Wife    ]  Swiss 5 I3 

\                  Other 88 83 


_'  Fifteen  additional  families  were  not  examined  for  various  reasons;  three  were  negro 
families,  three  refused  to  give  data,  nine  were  away  or  were  not  seen  for  good  reasons. 
'     Scotch,  Irish,  English,  etc. 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 
CULTURAL  CENSUS  1902. 


Origin  (as 
known  by  the 
people  them- 
selves) 


German 


Swiss 
Other 


Strasburg 
Borough 

Families 28 

Individuals  ....      38 

Families 10 


Families 14 

Individuals  ....      30 

Farmers  .   .    .    , 41 

Carpenters 21 

Painters 14 

Laborers 12 

Tobacco  Workers 12 

Cattlemen  (Drovers,  etc.)  .    .   .        7 

Millers 6 

Merchants  (Storekeepers, 

etc.) 6 

Bakers 5 

Butchers 5 

Bricklayers 5 

Cabinetmakers 3 

Druggists 3 

Coach  Painters 2 

Shoemakers 2 

Miners 2 

Plasterers   2 

Blacksmiths 2 

Jewelers      2 

Insurance  Agents 2 

Driver 

Confectioner 

Postmaster 

Liveryman 

Occupations        \  Dressmaker 

Veterinary 

Minister o 

Brickmaker o 

Engineer o 

Plumber o 

Dentists 2 

Tinsmiths 2 

Wagonmakers o 

Coachmakers 2 

Saddlers 3 

Hotelkeepers 3 

Contractor 

Bank  Cashier 

Bank  Tellers 

Journalist 

Masons 

Weavers 

Railroad  Men 

Coopers 

Teachers 

Presbyterian  Clergyman  .... 

Methodist  Clergyman 

Sexton 

Florists 

.  Surveyor 


41 


Strasburg 
Township 

.    .    .       87 

.    .    .         9 

•  •    •      39 

.  .  .  222 

.  .  .  5 

.  .  .  I 

•  .  •  37 
.  .  .  I 
.  .  .  o 

•  •  •  9 


42 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 
CULTURAL  CENSUS  1902. 


Strasburg 
Borough 

(  Families  .    .    ,  45^ 

(  Individuals  .  .  18 

/  Families  ...  13 

\  Individuals  .  .  20 
f  Families 


Religious  Status 


Methodists 

Presbyterians 

Old 

Mennonites  \  Individuals 
New  f  Families  . 

Mennonites  \  individuals 
United  f  Families  . 

Brethren  \  Individuals 

Lutherans         {fSSals 
/  German  i  Families  . 

\  Reformed  (  Individuals 

Episcopalians  {f„Xf|-, 

i  Catholics  {Sais 

^     .  (  Families  . 

(  Individuals 
r  Families 


Catholics 

Quakers 

Baptists 


Dress 

Superstition 
Powwowers 
Politics 


Atti  tu  de  on 
Social  Ques- 
tions 


\  Individuals 
River  Brethren  f  Families  . 
(Dunkers)  \  Individuals 
Non-Commu-  /  Families  . 
nicants       \  Individuals 

Plain 

Liberal    

Worldly 

Believe    in    the    signs    of 
moon   ........ 

(Actual  practioners)  .    .    . 

Vote 

Do  not  vote 


Strict 


Liberal 


/  Families  . 
\  Individuals 

f  Families  . 
1  Individuals  . 


the 


Language 


Speak  Penna.  Ger- j  Families 
man  regularly  \  Individuals 

Speak  Penna.  Ger-  /  Families 
man  occasionaly  \  Individuals 

Understand  /  Families 

Penna.  German  \  Individuals 

Speak  English        /  Families 

only  t  Individuals 

Speak  High  German  .  .  . 


18 
25 
15* 
9 

3 

2 

II 

8 

4 
o 

I 
I 

o 

2 

O 
I 

I 
I 

o 

o 
20 
66 

37 
3 
9 

27 


179 

9 

66 

13 


27 

36 

19 

22 

33 

63 
46 


Strasburg 
Township 

.  .  .  18 
.  .  .  12 
.  .  .     2 


78 

23 

16 

hi 

8 
13 
12 

4 

9 
o 

13 
o 

3 
o 

I 
o 

4 

I 

6 

4 
67 
42 

96 

3 
o 

19 

4 

249 

24 

107 
o 

57 
o 

34 
66 

27 
39 

41 
85 
61 
75 
•'4 


*  Fifteen  families  and  four  individuals  of  these  Methodists  were  notJconnected  with  the 
New  Mennonite  families. 

*  Seven  of  these  were  the  female  headt  of  the  families. 

*  Ten  of  these  were  female  heads  of  the  families. 

*  Lately  immigrated  from  Germany. 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  43 

Schnitz  un  nepp o 23 

Fassnachts 76 81 

Deitschakas o 5 

Haffekas 6 40 

Kopkjis 9 35 

Ballekas o o 

Schmirkas 82 84 

Ladwgr^k 24 74 

Pannhas      71 74 

Sauerkraut 85 87 

Dialect  Words,  Familia  in  Both  Forms. 
Bamgarde/^bungert 
Blooge/^zackere 
Fahrt'^.falder 
Forbe-^forbau/^^forschusz 
dirche/*/derche 
wege]  che/^padche 
Emer/*/  kivel 
Dunklef/^triver/*/  \  66.    .,.•••»•      96 

Wolkicher  (dag)  

Dafe/^dunke 
Ladern^^^lutzer 
Ebmols/^alsemol 
Halfter-^^kopschtell 
Is/<k.isch 

Ich  (mr)   din(e)/^dun(e) 
diminutive — /z  or  eke 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  THE  STATISTICS. 

Ratio  of  Answers.  It  will  be  found  that  the  total  of  answers 
given  to  the  several  questions  is  by  no  means  equal  to  the  number 
of  families  or  individuals  questioned.  This  is  explained  by  the 
fact  that  in  many  cases  the  individuals  did  not  know  what  to 
answer,  or,  because  of  the  newness  of  the  questions,  were  re- 
luctant to  answer  them.  The  figures  here  given  represent  the 
answers  which  were  recorded.  While  it  was  thus  not  possible 
to  get  absolute  completeness  under  some  rubrics,  the  figures 
obtained  will  prove  valuable  as  indicating  at  least  the  proportions 
of  the  population  represented  in  a  certain  rubric;  as,  for  ex- 
ample, in  the  case  of  those  who  wear  the  plain  dress,  in  which 
case  it  may  be  assumed  that  the  remainder  of  the  population  wear 
the  ordinary  "worldly"  dress.  As  this  was  an  entirely  private 
census,  unauthorized  by  any  official  authority,  it  is  surprising  that 
so  few  families  declined  outright  to  answer  the  questions.    More- 


44  A^i  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

over,  it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  refusal  indicates  an  ignorant 
family ;  on  the  contrary,  some  of  the  most  notable  cases  of  refusal 
were  met  with  in  families  of  the  highest  intelligence  in  the  town- 
ship. 

Size  of  Families.  An  account  was  also  taken  during  the 
census  of  the  number  of  living  cliildren  in  each  family.  These 
statistics  show  that  the  great  majority  of  families  had  from  two 
(2)  to  eight  (8)  children.  In  the  borough  there  were  only  27 
families  with  but  one  child  each,  and  27  having  two  children 
each;  26  having  3  children  each;  19.  of  4  each;  14,  of  5  each; 
II,  of  6  each;  3,  of  7  each;  6,  of  8  each;  4,  of  9  each;  2,  of  10 
each;  i,  of  11.  In  the  township  there  were  41  families,  of  i 
each';  '46,  'of  2  each;  38,  of  3  each;  38,  of  4  each;  21,  of  5  each; 
19,  of  6  each;  17,  of  7  each;  18,  of  8  each;  5,  of  9  each;  4,  of 
10  each;  2,  of  11  each;  2,  of  12  each.  These  figures  give  no 
immediate  alarm  of  race  suicide  among  the  German  decendants 
of  this  region. 

Origin  of  Families.  It  will  be  noted  that  after  summing 
up  all  the  families  whose  origin  has  been  determined,  there 
remains  a  small  percentage  (something  like  a  tenth)  unaccounted 
for.  This  means  that  these  families  could  not  be  traced  directly 
to  German,  Swiss,  Scotch,  Irish,  English,  or  Welsh  origin  from 
the  data  at  hand.  It  is  a  striking  fact  that  relatively  few  had 
personal  knowledge,  or  even  tradition  of  their  origin.  Compare, 
for  example  (in  the  borough),  the  141  male  heads  of  families, 
and  122  female,  whose  origin  the  census-taker  determined  to  be 
German,  with  the  28  families  and  38  individuals  wdio  knew  that 
they  were  of  German  origin.  This  disparity  shows  a  number 
of  interesting  facts,  (i)  How  completely  the  early  German 
settlers  severed  their  tradition  from  the  Fatherland.  (2)  The 
general  laxity  in  keeping  family  records,  particularly  in  the  case 
of  the  quietistic  sects.  (3)  The  low  grade  of  intelligence  of 
the  rank  and  file.  The  desire  on  the  part  of  the  masses  to  live 
an  obscure,  uneventful  life,  and  the  tendency  to  conceal  their 
German  origin  in  the  case  of  those  who  came  into  touch  with 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  45 

public  affairs,  doubtless  added  to  this  indifference  concerning 
their  origin. 

Occupation.  The  statistics  show  a  surprising  variety  of 
trades  and  occupations,  even  in  this  isolated  country  district, 
and  give  a  good  impression  of  the  complex  character  of  even 
simple  country  life.  It  will  be  seen  that  about  one-sixth  of  the 
residents  of  the  borough  is  made  up  of  farmers,  not  all  of  whom 
are  retired  farmers.  We  have  here,  doubtless,  an  instructive 
survival  of  the  South  German  village  life,  for  a  number  of  these 
farmers  in,  the  borough  still  carry  on  their  farms  in  the  town- 
ship, after  the  fashion  of  the  South  German  peasant;  except  that 
in  the  case  of  Strasburg,  the  farms  are  vastly  larger.  As  might 
be  expected,  many  trades  are  confined  to  the  borough.  Never- 
theless, the  township  is  well  supplied  with  such  artisans  as  car- 
penters, shoemakers  and  blacksmiths.  There  was  an  unmis- 
takable trace  here  of  the  German  tradition  of  passing  on  the 
trade  from  one  generation  to  the  next,  in  the  same  family.  The 
large  number  of  children,  however,  made  it  necessary  to  take 
up  other  occupations.  One  of  the  most  notable  of  these 
"hereditary"  occupations  is  to  be  found  in  the  case  of  a  family 
which  has  for  generations  been  noted  for  the  best  doctors  in 
the  country. 

Religious  Status.  It  is  a  most  interesting  fact  that  the 
Borough  of  Strasburg  shows  a  close  contest  in  point  of  numbers 
between  the  Old  and  New  Mennonites  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
Methodists  and  Presbyterians  on  the  other.  The  Presbyterian 
influence  is  only  such  as  can  be  easily  explained  by  the  presence  of 
the  Scotch  Irish  in  the  locality.  The  Methodists,  however,  have 
made  actual  conquest,  taking  over  a  number  of  members  from 
original  Mennonite  families,  it  being  a  natural  step  from  the 
tenets  of  the  Mennonites  to  the  beliefs  of  the  Methodists,  when 
once  the  plain  dress  and  conservative  Mennonite  ways  have  been 
given  up.  The  Mennonites  were  originally  the  dominant  element 
in  this  locality,  but  their  combined  influence  has  been  weakened 
by  the  organization  of  the  New  Mennonite  Church,     It  will  be 


46  An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

noted,  however,  that  the  Old  Mennonites  are  still  strong  in  the 
borough,  even  in  this  township,  which  represents  a  variety  of 
otlier  religious  elements. 

Dress.  One  of  the  most  interesting  things  in  the  appearance 
of  the  country  people  of  Lancaster  County  is  their  plain  dress, 
which  exhibits  three  different  types;  the  Mennonite  type,  the 
still  more  primitive  Amish  type,  and  the  Dunker  type.  In  point 
of  dress  the  borough  is  much  less  conservative  than  the  township, 
having  7,y  adherents  of  plain  dress  as  compared  with  96  in  the 
township.  Is  is  to  be  noted,  however,  that  many  families,  par- 
ticularly the  female  members,  wear  the  plain  dress,  without  being 
actual  members  of  a  plain  sect.  Indeed,  a  family  misfortune  is 
likely  to  force  them  from  worldly  habiliments  into  the  churchly 
plain  garb.  It  should  not  be  concluded,  however,  that  "plain" 
is  synonomous  with  unattractive,  for  in  the  case  of  the  young 
Mennonite  maiden  the  Mennonite  dress  is  highly  becoming,  and 
most  attractive,  allowing  of  a  wide  variety  of  color,  and  ma- 
terial, the  "plainness"  being  confined  to  the  pattern  of  the  gar- 
ments. Even  among  the  "hook  and  eye"  Amish,  the  young 
folks  indulge  in  gay  colors,  thus  relieving  the  monotonous  ex- 
ternals of  their  patriarched  life. 

Superstition.  The  full  extent  of  the  persistence  of  super- 
stition will  appear  in  a  separate  treatise  soon  to  be  published  by 
a  member  of  the  expedition.  We  only  note  here  two  or  three  of 
the  most  general  forms  of  superstition.  A  considerable  number 
of  people  still  believe  in  the  signs  of  the  moon,  and  observe  them 
in  planting,  sowing,  butchering,  and  the  like.  As  the  statistics 
show,  however,  the  percentage  is  relatively  small,  although  on 
this  point  the  answers  are  less  trustworthy. 

Powwowing.  The  most  interesting  survival  of  old  super- 
stitious folk  customs  is  doubtless  that  of  powwowing,  called 
in  Pennsylvania,  German  "Brauche."  Strange  as  it  may  seem, 
even  the  most  intelligent  people  have  been  known  to  turn  from 
the  practicing  physician  to  the  powwow  doctor  for  treatment, 
particularly  in  such  ailments  as  burns,  chills,  and  especially  in 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  47 

cases  of  "abnemme"  (marasmus),  the  cure  of  which  seems 
to  be  one  of  the  speciakies  of  the  pow-wower.  As  will  be  seen 
from  the  statistics,  eight  powwowers  were  found  in  the  Borough 
of  Strasburg  alone,  and  four  in  the  township,  making  a  round 
dozen,  one  powwower  to  fifty  families.  Two  kinds  of  pow- 
wowing were  noted.  One  consisting  of  rubbing  the  parts  affected, 
and  repeating  the  spell  without  further  formalities;  the  other 
of  using  potions  made  of  herbs,  etc.,  in  connection  with  the  treat- 
ment. These  facts  are  sufficient  to  justify  the  general  protest 
made  by  practicing  physicians  against  the  persistent  practice  of 
folk  medicine,  especially  in  the  second  form  mentioned  above. 

Politics.  The  old  prejudice  against  voting  is  fast  disappear- 
ing. As  the  statistics  show,  a  relatively  small  proportion  refuse 
to  vote.  Among  these  are  the  ministers  of  the  Mennonites  and 
other  plain  sects.  We  have  here  a  good  example  of  the  influence 
of  economic  interests  overriding  religious  scruples.  An  inter- 
esting form  of  this  is  to  be  found  in  school  politics,  where  some  of 
the  plain  sects  prove  themselves  quite  equal  to  the  tactics  of  the 
professional  politicians.  This  is  illustrated  by  the  case  of  a 
school  entirely  in  the  hands  of  the  sect.  By  skilful  manipulation 
the  school  board  was  made  up  of  members  of  the  sect,  the  teacher 
was  the  son  of  one  of  the  members,  and  the  pupils  seemed  to 
be  without  exception  from  the  same  sect,  as  teacher  and  pupils 
alike  all  wore  the  plain  garb. 

Social  Questions.  The  attitude  of  these  people  on  social 
questions  shows  that  there  is  a  strong  liberalizing  process  going 
on.  The  questions  particularly  inquired  about  for  the  statistics 
were  dancing,  cards,  theaters,  circuses,  and  the  like.  The  census 
takers  had  not  the  courage  to  go  very  minutely  into  the  question 
of  drink.  It  was  not  necessary,  however,  to  ask  questions  on 
this  subject,  as  the  thrift  of  the  inns  furnished  ample  evidence 
of  liberality.  As  might  be  expected,  the  borough  was  relatively 
more  liberal  than  the  township  in  regard  to  social  questions,  al- 
though a  considerable  number,  even  of  the  country  people, 
patronize  the  circus  and  even  the  theater,  and  multitudes  attend 


48  An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 

the  county  fair,  which  is  often  more  demoralizing  than  either 
circus  or  theater. 

Language.  The  most  interesting  feature,  perhaps,  in  the 
life  of  these  people  is  their  language.  A  special  effort  was  made 
in  the  census  to  collect  accurate  statistics  on  this  subject.  Inas- 
much as  the  people  are  sometimes  unwilling  to  admit  that  they 
speak  the  Pennsylvania  German  dialect,  an  effort  was  made  by 
the  census  takers  to  find  out  indirectly  to  what  extent  the  dialect 
was  used.  This  could  be  done  either  by  speaking  the  dialect  to 
the  people,  or  by  inquiring  as  to  the  use  of  certain  dialect  words. 
The  language  data  were  taken  under  two  heads :  ( i )  The  gen- 
eral use  of  language  or  dialect;  (2)  the  special  use  of  charac- 
teristic German  dialect  words.  A  comparison  of  the  numerical 
results  on  the  use  of  dialect  in  general  will  show  that  Pennsyl- 
vania German  has  almost  ceased  to  be  a  regular  family  speech 
in  the  borough,  but  is  still  used  by  a  considerable  number  of  indi- 
viduals, and,  occasionally,  by  a  still  larger  number  of  families; 
while  in  the  township  four  times  as  many  families  and  nearly 
three  times  as  many  individuals,  use  it  as  their  daily  speech,  with 
a  large  contingent  in  both  borough  and  township,  who  do  not 
speak  German,  understand  it  when  spoken.  As  the  statistics 
show,  the  majority  of  the  families  in  the  borough,  easily  a  fourth 
in  the  township,  speak  English  only.  How  astonishingly  slight 
the  effect  of  later  German  immigration  has  been  in  this  region 
can  be  seen  from  the  fact  that  only  one  family  in  the  borough, 
and  four  in  the  township  were  found  still  speaking  high  German 
which  they  had  brought  with  them  from  the  Fatherland;  and 
even  in  the  speech  of  the  families  living  in  the  township  there 
were  strong  traces  of  the  Pennsylvania  German  dialect. 

An  interesting  case  of  the  influence  of  language  was  ob- 
served in  an  old  native-born  Pennsylvania  German  of  Strasburg, 
who  spoke  the  German  Dialect  perfectly,  and  English  with  perfect 
Irish  accent.  When  asked  where  he  acquired  this  Irish  speech, 
he  said  he  had  learned  it  from  Irishmen,  who  worked  in  his 
father's  distillery,  when  he  was  a  boy.  These  Irishmen  corrected 
his  Germanized  English  after  their  Irishized  English  norm. 


7 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey  49 

Dialectal  Variation.  Considerable  attention  was  given  to  vari- 
ation in  the  German  dialect  of  the  German  region,  particularly 
of  Lancaster  County.  A  list  of  some  200  dialectal  test  words 
was  collected,  and  from  these  a  small  list  of  some  15  character- 
istic words  with  their  equivalents  used  as  the  basis  of  statistics 
in  Strasburg  town  and  township.  It  was  found  practically  im- 
possible to  distinguish  in  favor  of  either  of  the  dialectal  equiv- 
alents in  this  particular  locality,  because,  in  the  flux  and  flow  of 
the  population,  both  sets  of  words  had  become  familiar,  having 
been  found  in  66  cases  in  the  borough  and  96  in  the  township  in 
indiscriminate  use.  An  examination,  however,  over  the  counties 
of  Lancaster,  Lebanon  and  Berks,  made  it  possible  to  determine 
varieties  in  the  so-called  Pennsylvania  German  dialect.  These 
results  will  appear  in  print  later  in  the  form  of  a  dialect  dictionary, 
which  is  now  in  preparation. 

Surviving  German  Dishes.  One  of  the  indelible  marks  which 
the  old  German  life  has  left  in  Pennsylvania,  and  even  other 
parts  of  the  country,  is  the  survival  of  a  number  of  distinctly 
German  forms  of  food.  Borough  and  township  alike,  in  our 
census,  show  the  persistence  of  these  German  dishes  in  the  fare 
of  the  present  day.  In  the  borough,  four  articles  competed  for 
the  supremacy :  Sauerkraut,  made  in  85  cases ;  schmierkase, 
found  in  82  cases;  fassnachts,  76  cases;  pannhaus,  71  cases;  as 
compared  with  87  sauerkraut,  84  schmierkase,  81  fassnacht,  and 
74  pannhaus,  in  the  township.  It  will  be  noted  further  that  "lad- 
werck"  (apple  butter)  has  only  about  one-third  of  the  vogue  in 
the  borough  that  it  has  in  the  country,  which  is  explained  by  the 
lack  of  facilities  in  town  for  the  preparation  of  it.  In  addition 
to  these  great  German  staples  of  Pennsylvania  food,  a  number 
of  minor  cheeses  were  noted  as  having  vogue,  such  as  "haffekase," 
represented  by  6  in  the  borough  and  50  in  the  township;  "kop- 
kas,"  9  in  the  borough  and  35  in  the  township;  and  "deitsche- 
kas,"  5  in  the  township.  In  the  case  of  the  favorite  old  German  -^^  ' '" 
dish  of  "schrftitz  un'.nepp,"  it  was  found  that  the  dish  survived  ^'^^j^/' 
only  in  the  township,  where  23  cases  were  recorded,  although,  no 
doubt,  occasionally  even  the  denizens  of  the  borough  indulge  in 
this  venerable  German  dainty ! 


50 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 


List  of  Surveys  and  Chart  Made  by  the  Late  Jacob  Hildebrand,  Esq., 

OF  Stosberg. 

Name  of  Patentee.        Acres.  Month.  Year.  Letter.  Vol.  Page.           Township. 

1  London  Co 1800  6-25  1718    A        5    306    Par. 

2  Martin  Kendig  ....  1000  6-30  1711     A        4     229    Stras.  &  L. 

3  John  R.  Bundle.  .    .    .    500  6-30  1711     A        4    231     W.  L. 

4  John  Funk 500  6-30  1711     A        4    232    Stras.  &  L. 

5  Christopher  Franciscus   500  6-30  17 11     A        4    233    W.  L. 

6  Jacob  Miller 1000  6-30  1711     A        4    239    Stras.  &  W.  L. 

7  Amos  Strettle  ....  3380  Warrant  7-16-1712  in  right  of  George  Shore 

(deed  1682). 

8  Ch.  Herr 500  6-30  1711  A    4  236  W.  L. 

9  John  Herr 500  6-30  171 1  A    4  238 

10   '•    "  8-10  1711 

II 
12 

13  Martin  Kendig .   .    .    .    800  12-31  1714    A        5    264 

14 

15  John  Funk 250  5-31  1715    A        5     148    W.  L. 

16  John  Evans        ....  1000  9-16  17 16    A        5     203     E.  L. 

17  Isaac  Lefever    ....    300  11-16  1717 

18  11-21  1176    A        5     190    Str.  &  E.  L. 

20  Hans  Hower 300  2-18  1717    A        5    282    Str.  &  E.  L. 

21  Peter  Beller 250  3-15  1717    A        5     289    E.  &  W.  Lamp. 

22  Daniel  Feree 600  3-25  171?     A        5     228    Str.  &  E.  La. 

23  "          "      ....        100  3-25  1717    A        5    228    Prov. 

24  Alvah  Duboys  ....  1000  5-7  1717    A        5    214    Str.  Lamp  & 

Leacock. 

25  Isaac  Lefever 300  9-16  1717     A        5              Str. 

26  Henry  Funk 350  9-30  1717     A        6     156 

27  Daniel  Harman    .    .    .    450  12-30  J717    A        5     273    Str.  E.  &  W. 

Lamp. 
28 
29 
30 

31  HansGrofl 300  6-16  i7i8    A        5    316    W.  L. 

32  London  Co 5553  6-25  1718    A        5    306    E.  &  W.  L. 

33 

34 
35 
36 
37 
38 

39 

40  John  Hare iioo  9-25  1728    A        6      77    Str.  Par.  &  E.  L. 

41  Samuel  Taylor  ....  1300  11-21  1728    A        6      70    Str. 

42  Peter  Leaman   ....    300  12-29  1728    A        6     173    E.  L. 
43 

44 

45  Michael  Dinnegar .  .    .    300  5-3  1733    A                       Str.  &  E.  L. 

46  John  Steer 200  3-20  1734    A        6     106 

47  Daniel  Ferree   ....    308  10-29  ^734    A        7     321     Par.  &  Leacock. 

48  D.  Ferree  &  Isaac 

Lefevre  .  2300  10-29  ^734    A        7     313    Par.  &  Leac. 

49  319 


CHART  OF  SURVEYS  OF  LAND  ON   I'FOl'FA  CRFFK, 
MADE  BY  JACOB  HILDEBRANI), 
OF  STRASRURG,  LANCASTER  COUNTY,  rENNSVIAANlA. 
(  Tracing  from  the  Original. ) 


li%     Jv 


\         \ 


<;_\ 


»« 


f'^j/in^ 


cS- 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey                     51 

Name  of  Patentee.        Acres.      Month.  Year.  Letter.  Vol.  Page.           Township. 

50  James  Smith 11-29  i734  ^  12     E.  L. 

51  Peter  Leaman  ....  400  3-26  1735  A  7  173     E.  L. 

52  Thomas  Green  ....  200  ii-6  1735  A  7  322     Par. 

53 

54 

55  Jacob  Groff 400  5-10  1736  A  7  543    Str.  &  Prov. 

56  John  Taylor 1144  6-24  1736  A  7  552     Str.  &  Prov. 

57  Thorn.  Smith 152  7-23  1736  A  8  204    Str.  &  Prov. 

58  "          "       355  "  "  "  "  "  "       Bart  &  Eden. 

59 

60 

61  Thorn's  Green  ,   ...  250  7-8  i737  A  8  285    Str.  &  Sahsburg. 

62 

63  Shadrack  Scarlat  ...  175  9-15  i737  A  8  155 

64 

65  John  Musgrove  ....  I7i>^  12-12  1739                             Par. 

66 

67 

68 

69  George  Mackrel  ...  120  7-14  1741  A  12  285  Par, 

70 

71  Charles  Birket  ....  58  12-6  1742  A  11  246    Par. 

72  William  Young  ....  190  12-29  ^742  A  15  293     Par. 

73  Rankin 190  12-29  ^742  A  15  20     Par.  &  Sal. 

74 

75  Samuel  Patterson    .    .  210  10-19  1743  A  13  102     Par. 

76  Samuel  Blyth    ....  126  4-18  i744  A  12  98     Par.  Leac.  &  Sal. 

77  Henry  Kendrick  .  iio>^  9-20  1744  A  11  406    Str. 

78  John  Bowman   ....  147  9-20  1744  A  12  147     Str. 

79  John  Feree 156  11-14  1744  A  12  166    Leacock. 

80  Roger  Dyer 191  1-15  i745  A  12  293     Paradise. 

81  Jacob  Light 200  10-14  i745  A  N.  i,  H.  24.  Par. 

82 

83 

84  John  Rush 173  ii-3  ^746  A  12  455    Str. 

85 

86  John  Feree 50  10-6  1742  A  10  492     Par. 

87  6  A  14  100 

88  John  Herr 203  10-25  1748  Warrant  5,  Oct.,  1748.     Str. 

89  James  Welsh 192  6-27  1750  A  14  491     Str.  &  Sadsbury. 

90  John  Liggit 245^^  8-15  1750  A  15  428     Par.  &  Bart. 

91  "    "    65  "  "  "  "  "  "   Bart. 

92  Jacob  Brewer  ....  4-1 1  1750  A  15  374  Par. 

93 

94  John  Rush  Deed  ...  164  6-8  1752  A  17  107    Str. 

95  John  Feree 50  10-19  1752  A  17  154     Par. 

96  Matthias  Slaymaker    .  147  11-17  1752  A  16  274     Par. 

97  John  Edman 73  5-12  1752  A  17  104    Str. 

Warrant  same  day. 

98  Ulrick  Sharick  ....  102  10-9  1753  A  16  509    Par. 

99  Jacob  Beam 221  6-3  1757  A  19  235     Eden. 

100  Peter  Taylor 172^  3-i7  1760  A  19  150    Par. 

loi  John  Taylor 196,  3-18  1760  A  19  154     Par. 

102  John  Shirts 285  8-19  1761  AA  i  50     Par. 

103  John  &  Christian  Herr  500  5-5  1761  AA  i  254    W.  L. 

104  Isaac  Whitelock  ...  320  6-17  1761  AA  i  542    Str. 


52 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 


105 
106 
107 
108 
109 
no 
III 
112 

113 
114 

115 
116 
117 
118 
119 
120 
121 
122 

123 
124 
125 
126 
127 
128 
129 
130 
131 
132 
133 
I — 

135 
136 


Name  of  Patentee.        Acres.      Month.  Year.  Letter.  Vol. 

John  Feree 49^^     1-25  1762  AA 

Henry  Herr 3^8^     5-24  1762  AA      3 

George  Lutz 123        9-24  1762  AA 

Jacob  Shirts 176        9-25  1764  AA      5 

George  Smith  ....    109 /4^   12-17  1764  AA      6 


Jacob  Kendrick 
Henry  Stoner   . 
Jacob  Eshleman 
John  Moser    .    . 
Jacob  Ashleman 
Jacob  Eshleman 
Jacob  Eshleman 
Jacob  Eshleman 
Martin  Kendrick,  Deed 


John  Miller    . 
John  Brackbill 


Jacob  Brua    .   . 
Henry  Denlinger 
Benjamin  Groff 


20 

I72>^ 

34/2 

11% 

42X 
91^-" 

58)4 
i5«6 


133 

47 
71 
38K 


9-22 

4-22 

1-25 
4-22 
4-22 
4-22 
4-22 
10-29 


11-30 
11-30 

5-31 
5-31 
4-24 


1767  AA  10 

1767  A  A  8 

1768  AA  100 
1768  AA  10 
1768  AA  10 
1768  AA  10 
1968  AA  10 
1768  AA  10 
1768  AA  II 


1769  A  A 

1769  A A 

1770  AA 
1770  AA 
1770  A  A 


Benjamin  Groff  ...  88  1-15 
William  Boyd  ...  167)4  5-20 
John  Eckman    ....    145       11-26 

James  Scott   .   .       .    .      97        5-10    1776  AA 
H.  Stoner  or  C.  Berman    26      12-12     1776  A  A 


II 
12 

14 
14 
II 


1774  AA  14 
1774  AA  14 
1774  A  A  14 


15 

16 


Page.  Township. 

Par. 
296  Prov. 

Para. 
653  Par. 
no  Strasb. 


40  Strasb. 

228  Strasb. 

345  Para. 

243  Strasb. 

347  Strasb. 

349  Strasb.  &  Par. 

349  Strasb.  &  Par. 

350  Strasb.  &  Par. 
31  Strasb. 


192    Strasb. 
141     Strasb. 


318  Para. 
317  Para. 
293     Para. 


99    Strasb. 
348    Eden 
773    Strasb. 

692     Strasb. 
Strasb. 


139  T.  &  W.  Montgomery 
John  Black 

141  Herman  Skiles     .    .    . 

142  Joseph  Feree    .... 

143  Henry  Kendrick  .    .    . 
144 

145  John  Herr 

146 

147 

148  Sam'l  Houston  ,  .   .   . 

149  Christ  Hartman    .   .   . 
150 

151 

152  Joseph  Moser    .   .    .   . 

153 

154  John  Eckman    .    .    .    . 

155 

156  David  Witmer  .   .   .    . 

Jacob  Sheets 

158  Ulrick  Keneagy    .    .    . 

159  George  Trout   .   .   .   . 

160  Baltzer  Borkman  .   .   . 


208 
171 

173^ 
124 

148 
194 


3-2 
I  H 

7-31 

1-6 

8-19 


45        1-6 
173X    7-9 


1784 
1785 
1787 
1788 
1798 


A  N  2 

3 
AN  II 

311 
13 


3-13     1784 


1790 
1790 


no       2-27    1794 
48  1795 


346 

34 
563 
804 


Bart,  Eden  &  Par 

Eden 

Par. 

Par. 

Strasb.  &  Eden 


13  470  Str.  &  Eden 

16  121  Par. 

16  325  Eden. 

20  290  Strasb. 


175       5-22     1797  33      84 

Nearby  to  Ida  Graham  east  of  Mrs.  Scott. 

64^     6-7       1802  36    622     Bart. 

47^     6-8      1802  36    622     Par. 

161      11-12     1802  48    130    Par. 

221        9-4      1805 


An  American  Ethnographical  Survey 


53 


Name  of  Patentee.        Acres.      Month. 

i6i  Baltzer  Borkman  .    .    .    135 
162  Feree  Daniel   .    .  119  &  no 


163  John  Hutley,  Heus  . 

164  John  Camachen    .    . 

165  Jacob  &  M.  Fortz    . 

Eden 

166  Samuel  Hathern  .    . 

I.  Foutz  .    .    . 
168  Conrad  Hook 


{■ 


22X 

112 
232 


169  Joseph  Barber  .... 

170  Henry  Diffenbach    .    . 

171  Henry  Metz 

172  Jacob  Fritz 

173  John  Neff 

174  Chr.  Leaman 

175  John  Heidlebach  .  .    . 

176  Joseph  Kinkade    .    .    . 

177  Sam  Peoples 

178  Francis  Boumart  .    .    . 

179  Rob.  Posten 

180  Christ.  Yardy    .... 

181  I.  P.  Echternach  .    .    . 
Tract  Frederick  White 

182  Isaac  Giniss 

183  H.  F.  Trout  &  H.  Neff 
D.  W.  Jackson  .... 

Bushong  

Mr.  Winters  & 

Peacock  &  Thomas. 
John  Brackbill  .... 


47^-* 

193 

8J 
779 

89^ 
78^ 
90^j- 
52" 
117 

45^ 
ii8ii 

47^ 
26411 
196% 
112^ 

II295 

I36i^ 


9-17 

3-13 
8-6 

lO-II 

8-15 
10-21 

3-22 
1 1-2 

4-19 

2-21 
12-12 

3-28 

'  5-27 
2-4 

7-1 1 
1-22 

1-5 

^10-9 

1 1-6 

5-5 

8-22 

2-21 

4-9 
9-20 

10-14 

10-14 

5-21 

4-17 


Year. 

1805 
1807 
1807 
1811 
1815 
1838 
1842 
1809 
1810 
1810 
1810 


501^  9-4 
116^^  lO-II 


Letter.  Vol.  Page.  Township. 

56       67 

59    326    Par. 
61     108    Strasb. 

Str.  &  Bart. 

Asketer  Eden.   Str.  &  Eden. 

Will   Hiett   1-26  1733  Eden. 
}  Office  Draft,     g^^.  g^  ^^^^ 
H        4    395    Strasb. 


End. 


1810  H  2  272  Str.  &W.  La. 

1811  H  5  755  Eden")  North 
181 1  H  5  348  Eden/ 

181 1  H  6  223  Eden. 

181 2  H  8  13  Strasb. 
1816  H  12  310  Bart. 
1819  H  17  164  Para. 
1835  H  35  211  Bart. 

1813  H  Strasb. 
1810  H  4  296 
1810  H 

1810  H  2  335  Eden. 

1871  H  69  719  Str.  &  P. 

1871  H  68  714  Par. 

1871  H  68  714       " 

1872  H  70  407  Strasb. 

1873  H  71  682  Bart. 


1873    H      72    228    Par. 
1809    H        I     470    Mash  R. 


Expense  Account. 


Receipts  by  subscriptions $745.00 

'  Equipment $  35-oo 

Traveling 207.25 

Board,  etc 292.83 

Photographing 91-09 

Printing  and  Typewriting 86.46 

Stationery 23.90 

$736.53 


Expenditures 


Balance 


$    8.47 

M.   D.   Learned,  Director. 


REVIEWS. 

By  Wm.  G.  Bek. 

Handbuch  des  Dcutschfiims  im  Auslande  nebst  einem  Adressbuch 
der  dentschcn  Anslandschnlen.  Herausgegeben  vom  Allgemei- 
nen  Deutschen  Schulverein  zur  Erhaltung  des  Deutschtums  im 
Auslande.     Dietrich  Reimer.    Zweite  Auflage.    Berlin,  1906. 

The  work  is  intended  for  parliamentarians,  newspaper  men  and 
merchants,  as  well  as  others  interested  in  German,  in  foreign  lands, 
and.  as  the  title  implies,  undertakes  the  enormous  task  of  informing 
concerning  these  Germans.  Although  it  contains  573  pages  of 
closely  printed  matter,  the  work  still  exhibits  a  lack  of  proportion. 
In  the  case  of  the  United  States,  where  we  are  best  prepared  to 
judge,  the  accompanying  bibliography  omits  many  of  the  best  and 
most  important  sources.  The  third  edition  of  this  work — the  prep- 
aration of  which  has  already  begun — will,  no  doubt,  supplement  this 
bibliography  and  enrich  the  content  of  the  book.  The  demand  for 
such  a  work  is  attested  by  the  surprisingly  rapid  disposal  of  the 
2,000  copies  of  the  first  edition  (1904),  which  supply  was  exhausted 
four  months  after  its  publication. 

The  preface  of  the  second  edition  is  written  by  Professor  A. 
Brandl,  who  wrote  the  preface  also  to  the  first  edition,  and  the  in- 
troduction— which  is  repeated  from  the  first  edition — is  the  contri- 
bution of  Professor  Friedrich  Paulsen.  The  chapter  pertaining  to 
the  Germans  in  the  United  States  is  written  by  Dr.  Hermann  Ger- 
hard. 

The  work  is  divided  into  two  main  parts.  Part  I  deals  with 
"Die  Deutschen  im  Auslande."  while  Part  11  contains  the  "Adress- 
buch der  deutschen  Schnlen  im  Auslande."  Under  the  caption,  "Sta- 
tistische  Uebersicht,  kulturelle  und  wirtschaftliche  Verhaltnisse," 
123  pages  are  devoted  to  the  Germans  on  the  American  continent, 
while  in  the  "Adressbuch,  etc.,"  75  pages  are  given  to  America. 
(54) 


Reviews  55 

South  America  is  more  fully  treated  than  North  America.  In  Part  I 
the  account  of  the  Germans  in  the  United  States  covers  12  pages, 
while  that  of  the  Germans  in  Brazil  covers  45  pages,  notwithstand- 
ing the  fact  that  the  German  population  of  the  entire  South  Ameri- 
can continent,  according  to  the  book  itself,  is  just  one-twentieth  of 
that  of  the  United  States  alone. 

In  the  chapter  on  the  Germans  in  the  United  States  the  follow- 
ing topics  are  briefly  treated:  i.  The  History  of  German  Immi- 
gration. 2.  The  Number  of  Germans.  3.  The  German  Churches. 
4.  German  Societies.  5.  German  Newspapers  and  Periodicals. 
6.  German  Theaters.     7.  Germany's  Commercial  Relations. 

The  author  of  this  chapter  falls  into  the  mistake,  made  by 
some  American  historians,  of  calling  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  the 
founder  of  Germantown,  a  preacher.  Pastorius  was  not  a  parson 
but  a  Doctor  of  Laws  of  the  University  of  Altdorf. 

It  is  manifest  that  a  compilation  of  facts  such  as  this  book  pur- 
ports to  give  is  valuable.  This  particular  chapter  might  be  extended 
with  advantage  to  the  book,  as  the  Germans  in  America  are  an  im- 
portant element  in  the  history  of  German  colonization.  With  a 
more  exhaustive  use  of  the  reliable  and  adequate  sources  at  hand, 
a  monumental  contribution  to  the  history  of  Germans  in  foreign 
lands  must  result.  The  services  of  Professor  Brandl,  who  was  so 
heartily  welcomed  in  America  in  1906,  will  greatly  aid  the  enterprise. 
The  present  edition  of  the  "Handbuch  des  Deutschtums  im  Aus- 
land"  shows  an  advance  over  the  first  edition  toward  this  result. 

Das  Deutschtum  in  Kanada.    Von  Alwin  Oppel.     {Deutsche  Erde. 
No.  2  of  1906.) 

The  title  is  somewhat  broader  than  the  article  would  Justify 
since  it  confines  itself  largely  to  statistical  statements  and  to  a  few 
historical  facts  relative  to  the  date  of  earliest  settlement.  But  what 
the  author  gives  is  most  welcome  to  those  interested  in  things  Ger- 
man on  the  American  continent. 

First  of  all  it  is  pointed  out  that,  while  in  the  United  States 
the  Germanic  races  occupy  the  most  prominent  place,  in  Canada  the 
Celtic  Romanic  races  predominate.  The  accurate  record  which  the 
Canadian  government  keeps  of  the  nationalities  within  its  limits, 


56  Reviews 

makes  comparison  easy.  Thus  Oppel,  quoting  the  Canadian  census 
of  1901,  points  out  that,  while  there  were  3,452,074  persons  of  Celtic- 
Romanic  blood,  there  were  only  1,658,330  of  German  extraction  in 
the  Dominion.  The  Germans  are  scattered  over  the  entire  inhabited 
portion  of  Canada.  The  greatest  number  of  them,  however,  is  cen- 
tralized in  the  Province  of  Ontario,  namely  203,319.  Then  follow 
Nova  Scotia  with  41,020,  Manitoba  with  27,265,  Alberta  with  7,694, 
and  the  other  provinces  and  territories  with  smaller  representations. 
In  the  newer  settlements  in  the  western  part  of  the  Dominion  the 
Germans  represent  a  considerable  percentage  of  the  entire  popula- 
tion. In  West  Assiniboia,  for  example,  17  per  cent,  of  the  popula- 
tion is  German.  Quite  obviously  the  Germans  have  sought  the 
regions  of  predominantly  English  rather  than  those  of  predom- 
inantly French  population. 

From  the  statistical  discussion  Oppel  turns  to  the  historical.  It 
appears  that  almost  precisely  a  hundred  years  after  the  founding 
of  Germantown,  Pa.,  the  first  beginnings  of  a  German  settlement 
were  made  in  Canada.  Curiously  enough,  these  first  settlers  came 
from  the  States  and  largely  from  Pennsylvania.  Here  a  large 
number  of  that  religious  body  known  as  Mennonites  had  settled. 
While  their  religious  tenets  forbade  them  from  participating  in  war 
or  military  enterprises  of  any  kind,  they  were  loyal  subjects  of  the 
crown  of  England.  When  the  peace  of  1783  established  the  United 
States  as  a  separate  nation,  many  of  them,  true  to  their  oath  of 
loyalty,  departed  for  Canada.  They  settled  in  Southern  Ontario  in 
1786  and  have  marked  their  settlements  by  giving  them  German 
names — Berlin,  New  Hamburg,  Breslau,  etc.  A  large  number  of 
German  Mennonites  subsequently  went  to  Canada  from  Russia,  to 
escape  military  duties  which  the  Russian  government  was  about  to 
force  upon  them.  They  sought  chiefly  the  central  and  western 
parts  of  Canada.  It  will  be  interesting  to  note  how  large  a  per- 
centage of  the  German  population  this  religious  sect  constitutes. 
According  to  tlie  census  of  1901,  of  the  27,265  Germans  in  Mani- 
toba, 15,246  were  Mennonites;  in  the  District  of  Lisgar,  of  13,774 
Germans,  10,915  were  Mennonites;  in  the  District  of  Provencher, 
of  5,839  Germans,  4,267  were  Mennonites,  and  in  Saskatchawan,  of 
4,332  Germans,  3,683  belonged  to  this  sect. 

Oppel  concludes  his  article  by  saying  that  the  Germans  of  Can- 


Reviews  57 

ada  are  not  important  factors  politically  for  the  following  reasons : 

1.  They  are  scattered  over  a  vast  stretch  of  land. 

2.  The  Mennonites  separate  themselves  from  other  people. 

3.  The  Germans  live,  for  the  most  part,  in  the  small  towns  and 
country  districts. 


Reisebilder  aus  Amerika.     Von  Adam  Roder.   1906.     Puttkammer 
&  Mijhlbrecht,  Berlin. 

This  is  a  book  written  in  a  feuilletonistic  style  upon  meager  in- 
formation. Its  title  would  be  more  appropriately  "Bilder  aus  New 
York."  Like  so  many  Europeans,  the  author  regards  New  York 
City  as  equivalent  to  the  Union  and  makes  local  observations  appli- 
cable to  the  nation  at  large.  Of  this  vast  country,  its  millions  of 
inhabitants  and  its  multiplex  phases  of  life  and  activities,  he  feels 
competent  to  write,  with  considerable  conviction,  after  a  brief  visit 
to  four  of  our  cities.  New  York,  Philadelphia,  Baltimore  and  Wash- 
ington. Just  what  the  purpose  of  the  book  should  be  is  not  an  easy 
matter  to  divine,  unless  by  means  of  caricature  of  our  social  condi- 
tions it  should  serve  to  deter  his  fellow  countrymen  from  coming  to 
America.  From  cover  to  cover  it  is  a  great  interrogation  mark.  It 
is  full  of  misrepresentations,  incongruities  and  gross  statistical  and 
historical  errors.  That  a  change  of  the  environment  of  a  people 
and  the  heterogeneity  of  our  population  are  unconducive  to  spon- 
taneous development  of  the  highest  stage  of  culture,  the  author  fails 
to  observe.  Every  aspect  of  life  he  views  through  the  partisan  eye- 
glass of  a  self-satisfied  European.  He  is  unable  to  observe  in  any- 
thing, whatsoever,  the  quickening  heart  throb  of  a  new  and  unique 
culture.  What  his  own  nation  and  other  European  nations,  by  con- 
stant intermingling,  by  mutual  borrowing  and  reworking  have  ac- 
complished in  centuries  of  labor,  he  expects  to  find,  in  even  a 
magnified  degree,  in  this  new  country  which  has  scarcely  emerged 
from  the  keenest  struggle  with  primitive  conditions.  According  to 
Roder  all  Americans  are  wholesale  plagiarists,  ruthless  borrowers. 
He  denies  us  every  claim  to  scholarship,  going  so  far  even  as  deny- 
ing us  the  right  of  owning  our  beloved  Mark  Twain,  assigning  him 
a  place  among  the  English  or  Low  Germans.  The  average  German 
American  he  views  with  particular  abhorrence.    It  is  a  book  of  neg- 


58  Reinews 

German  American  Literature.     Amelia  von  Ende.     Autumn  Num- 
ber, 1906,  of  Poet  Lore. 

In  this  article  Mrs.  von  Ende  has  contributed  to  a  study,  a  seri- 
ous, thorougho-oing  treatment  of  which  must  be  eagerly  welcomed 
by  all  students  who  desire  a  complete  and  accurate  literary  history 
of  our  country.  The  author  possesses  admirable  qualifications  for 
this  kind  of  work.  For  years  she  has  closely  followed  the  German 
literary  activities  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic.  In  a  magazine  ar- 
ticle of  only  a  few  pages,  however,  it  is  manifestly  impossible  to 
enter,  exhaustively,  into  a  field  so  difficult  and  so  many-sided.  It 
goes  without  saying  that  the  excessive  brevity  has  permitted,  so  to 
speak,  only  a  bird's-eye  view  of  the  entire  field.  That  here  and 
there  apparent  superficiality  appears  is  therefore  not  surprising. 
Many  writers  had,  necessarily,  to  be  passed  with  a  mere  mention. 
However,  some  are  omitted,  who,  beyond  any  doubt,  should  have 
a  place  among  German  American  literary  men.  Just  to  mention 
one :  H.  A.  Rattermann,  who  for  years  has  been  a  tireless  writer  and 
who  just  now  is  publishing  a  monumental  edition  of  his  own  works. 
Some  of  his  poems  are  of  such  exquisite  beauty  that  they  will  vie 
successfully  with  many  European  literary  works  of  art.  He  cer- 
tainly has  won  for  himself  a  place  among  German  American  men 
of  letters. 

However,  every  thoughtful  reader  must  welcome  every  serious 
attempt  to  interest  our  countrymen  in  the  gifts  which  the  various 
elements  of  our  cosmopolitan  population  have  contributed  towards 
rounding  out  the  inner  life  of  our  nation. 

Die  Glocke.    Carl  Schurz.    November. 

Number  5  of  the  new  monthly  Die  Glocke,  published  at  Chi- 
cago, is  devoted  almost  exclusively  to  the  memory  of  the  late  Carl 
Schurz.  It  is  a  beautiful  and  fitting  tribute  to  the  great  German 
American.  It  touches  upon  every  phase  of  his  eventful  life  and  his 
manifold  activities.  The  contributors  to  this  memorial  number  were 
marshalled  from  the  most  active  workers — German  and  Anglo- 
Americans — in  the  study  of  the  Germans  in  America.  The  Glocke 
has  thus  shown  itself  an  important  organ  of  communication  between 
the  Germans  of  America  and  their  kinsmen  in  the  old  Fatherland. 


Reviews  59 

Longfellow  and  German  Romance.     Fred  Lewis  Pattee.     Spring 
Number  of  Poet  Lore,  1906. 

Professor  Pattee  gives  us  an  excellent  bit  of  comparative  study. 
He  has  contributed  an  important  piece  of  work  towards  the  serious, 
modern  method  of  studying  Longfellow  and  the  literary  forces  influ- 
encing his  thought.  Pattee  proceeds  cautiously  and  clinches  his 
statements  well.  The  parallel  situations  which  he  cites  in  the  life 
of  Longfellow  and  that  of  the  founder  of  the  German  Romantic 
School  of  Literature,  Novalis,  are  striking.  He  shows  how  the 
American  poet's  own  temperament,  his  Puritanic  tendencies,  the 
overwrought  condition  of  his  mind  after  the  death  of  his  wife  and 
of  his  friend,  his  European  surroundings  and  the  literature  which 
he  read,  slowly  but  surely  turned  him  to  Romanticism  and  made 
such  poems  as  Hyperion  and  the  collection  Voices  of  the  Night  pos- 
sible. 

The  Psalm  of  Life  was  an  attempt  to  break  away  from  the 
moodiness  and  aimlessness  into  which  Romanticism  had  led  him. 
It  was  stimulated  by  Goethe's  Wilhelm  Meister.  Professor  Pattee 
says  that  in  this  poem  the  spirit  of  Goethe's  great  novel  made  itself 
felt  for  the  first  time  in  America. 

Some  of  the  marks  of  the  Romantic  poets  are  their  revelries  in 
things*  pertaining  to  the  Middle  Ages,  their  adoration  for  the  Cath- 
olic Church,  their  worship  of  Dante.  All  these  Longfellow  shared 
with  the  Romanticists.  And  he  does  it  to  such  an  extent  that  the 
great  mass  of  his  poetry  is  really  American  only  in  theme,  a  statement 
which  might  be  strongly  contested. 

The  article  is  well  written.  It  contains  no  far-fetched  or  forced 
comparisons  and  its  logic  and  straightforwardness  appeal  to  the 
students  as  something  of  real  worth  in  the  modern  comparative 


Americana.     Von   Karl  Lamprecht.      1906.     Hermann   Heyfelder, 
Freiburg  im  Breisgau. 

A  small  book  written  with  intended  fairness  by  an  eminent 
German  scholar.  It  is  much  too  small  to  contain  the  mass  of  mate- 
rial which  the  author  has  acquired  during  his  American  travels. 
He  expressly  disclaims  all  attempts  at  completeness  and  simply  gives 


6o  Reviews 

to  his  readers  some  few  of  his  many  observations.  That  he  was 
demonstrably  impelled  by  a  desire  to  inquire  scientifically  into  Amer- 
ican Institutions  and  conditions  no  one  will  doubt. 

The  first  56  pages  of  the  book  are  devoted  to  an  interesting 
diary  which  contains,  so  to  speak,  the  snapshot  impressions  of  a 
very  extended  tour  through  this  country.  Part  two  contains  more 
deliberate  reflections  based  on  actual  observations,  namely,  concern- 
ing American  piety,  the  influence  of  physical  conditions  on  the 
people,  the  quantitative  judgment  of  the  Americans,  an  interview 
with  Carl  Schurz,  the  martial  spirit  of  the  Americans,  American 
liberty,  politics  and  Teutonism,  and  finally  the  American  univer- 
sities. 

The  author  is  convinced  that,  despite  the  great  variety  of  dem- 
onstrations, the  Teutonic  element  of  the  United  States  is,  after  all, 
deeply  religious.  He  believes  that  in  the  farm  lies  the  hope  and 
strength  of  our  nation.  He  criticises,  and  doubtless  justly,  our 
quantitative  judgment.  He  attributes  this  trait  to  the  newness  of 
the  country  and  finds  parallels  for  it  in  every  colonial  civilization. 
To  Carl  Schurz — the  greatest  German  American — he  pays  a  most 
beautiful  tribute.  He  finds  the  American  people  to  be  of  martial 
inclination.  Their  numerous  monuments — not  always  of  the  high- 
est artistic  value — are  nevertheless  pertinent  demonstrations  of  the 
esteem  in  which  their  heroes  are  held.  This  martial  sense  he  attri- 
butes not  so  much  to  an  overwrought  national  pride  as  to  the  con- 
sciousness of  physical  ability,  a  feeling  acquired  in  the  daily  con- 
quest of  primitive  conditions.  Concerning  our  much-boasted  liberty 
he  concludes  that  it  is  largely  "the  liberty  of  the  captains  of  in- 
dustry." Under  the  heading  Teutonism  he  touches  upon  the  oft- 
expressed  wish  that  the  Teutonic  nations  should  stand  shoulder  to 
shoulder  for  the  development  of  the  highest  culture  and  for  the 
greatest  mutual  good.  Although  the  author  has  seen  a  great  many 
American  universities,  he  does  not  feel  competent  to  formulate  a 
complete  picture  of  what  the  American  university  really  is  and  how 
it  differs  in  detail  from  the  European  university.  He  has  seen  many 
interesting  things,  some  of  which  he  even  recommends  to  European 
universities. 

In  the  last  part  of  his  book,  by  far  the  most  serious,  Professor 
Lamprecht  gives  a  resume  of  his  American  impressions.    He  treats 


Reviews  6i 

briefly  our  history.  He  notes  the  want  of  true  and  typical  Ameri- 
can culture,  but  he  recognizes,  in  innumerable  signs,  the  dawn  of 
such  culture.  Then  he  discusses,  in  brief,  the  contributions  which 
New  England  has  made  to  the  United  States  and  gives  reasons  why 
New  England  should  have  a  development  differing  from  that  of  the 
other  states.  Next  he  deals  with  American  literature  and  joins 
other  critics  in  ascribing  to  Edgar  Allan  Poe  the  distinction  of 
being  the  most  typical  American  writer.  He  observes  the  well- 
known  fact  that  we  have  no  drama  and  attributes  it,  in  part,  to 
Puritanic  influence.  He  is  undecided  whether  to  call  the  short  story 
typically  American  or  whether  we  owe  indebtedness  to  Maupassant 
and  Kipling.  The  display  of  American  art  at  the  Louisiana  Pur- 
chase Exposition  has  convinced  the  author  that  the  standard  of 
American  art  is  ascending. 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  Professor  Lamprecht  has  seen  fit  to 
confine  himself  to  such  brevity  of  description.  We  should  welcome 
the  historian's  opinion  in  greater  detail. 

Amertkanische  Eindrilcke.     Von  Ludwig  Fulda.     1906.     Stuttgart 
und  Berlin.     J.  G.  Cotta'sche  Buchhandlung  Nachfolger. 

Doubtlessly  this  book  will  find  many  eager  readers  in  America, 
since  it  contains  many  interesting  observations  by  a  well-wishing 
foreigner,  and  its  criticisms  are  fair  and  valuable.  At  the  outset 
Dr.  Fulda  emphasizes  the  fact  that  he  does  not  purpose  to  write  a 
book  on  America.  His  superior  judgment  convinces  him  of  the 
folly  of  such  an  attempt  after  an  acquaintance  of  only  a  few  months' 
sojourn.  Therefore  he  proposes  to  give  only  the  rather  general  im- 
pressions which  he  gained  on  his  American  tour.  He  does  this 
impartially  and  in  a  particularly  pleasing  manner.  It  must  be  re- 
membered— ^and  Fulda  says  so,  in  substance,  himself — that  he  saw 
America,  as  it  were,  in  full  dress.  As  the  guest  of  the  Germanistic 
Society  of  America,  to  which  body,  by  the  way,  his  book  is  dedi- 
cated, he  was  so  hospitably  entertained  and  so  constantly  occupied, 
that  a  quiet  study  of  existing  conditions  was  wholly  out  of  the 
question.  It  is  doubtful  whether  this  fact  is  to  be  regretted,  as  so 
few  Europeans  see  America  just  as  Fulda  saw  it.  It  cannot  have 
anything  but  a  wholesome  effect  to  emphasize  this  side  for  once.   Of 


62  Reviews 

our  cities  he  has  seen  a  good  deal.  He  recognizes  the  utility  of 
American  skyscrapers  and  even  succeeds  in  seeing  some  beauty  in 
these  colossal  structures.  He  compliments  the  parks,  the  illumina- 
tion of  tlie  cities,  the  gigantic  undertakings  to  facilitate  traffic,  and 
the  fact  that  so  many  Americans  live  in  houses  which  they  own. 
He  criticises  the  paving  of  our  streets  and  the  horribly  unsightly 
telegraph  and  telephone  poles  seen  in  many  places.  He  recognizes 
and  does  justice  to  the  manifest  attempt  to  beautify  our  towns  and 
cities.  His  conclusion  is  that  American  cities — even  Boston  and 
Washington — are  yet  unfinished.  He  compares  the  cities  to  young 
giants  who  have  outgrown  their  immaturity.  Their  old  garments 
have  become  too  small  and  somehow  they  do  not  know  how  to  de- 
port themselves  in  the  new  ones. 

Speaking  of  American  travel,  he  lavishly  compliments  the  com- 
fort and  luxury  which  state-room  passengers  enjoy.  The  accom- 
modations accorded  to  those  less  wealthy  he  finds,  on  the  whole, 
inferior  and  less  practical  than  those  of  Germany.  This  leads  him 
to  the  conclusion:  "The  American  is  practical  only  in  great  things." 

Fulda's  observations  on  the  Germans  of  America  are  well  worth 
the  careful  perusal  of  anyone  interested  in  this  class  of  our  citizens. 
He  recognizes  the  fact  that  the  bone  and  sinew  of  the  "Deutsch- 
tum"  in  this  country  are  the  German  farmers  and  the  families  of 
the  intellectual  aristocrats  whom  the  Revolution  of  1848  brought 
into  our  midst.  The  author  duly  respects  the  titanic  struggle  which 
goes  on  daily,  yes  hourly,  to  keep  things  German,  particularly  the 
language,  alive  in  this  English-speaking  land,  but  he  duly  points 
out  the  ultimate  futility  of  this  struggle,  and  shows  the  baneful 
.effect  of  attempting  the  control  of  two  languages  with  equal  dexter- 
ity. (I  should  like  to  interpolate  this  thought  here,  germane  to  this 
subject,  that  in  my  opinion  this  very  duality  of  language  is  one  of 
the  causes  why  German  Americans  do  not  use  the  pen  with  more 
facility  than  they  do,  in  either  language.) 

The  mixture  of  dialects  and  languages  among  the  Pennsylva- 
nians,  some  specimens  of  which  he  saw  also  in  print,  did  not  im- 
press Fulda  very  favorably. 

The  playwright  compliments  in  warmest  terms  the  great  Ger- 
man newspapers  of  New  York,  St.  Louis,  Cincinnati,  Chicago  and 
Milwaukee;  the  many  excellent  German  clubs,  and  especially  the 


Reviews  63 

distinctly  German  theatres.  One  experiences  just  a  little  surprise 
when  one  fails  to  see  Philadelphia  on  the  list  of  cities  boasting  of 
a  German  theatre.  Doubtlessly  this  is  due  to  the  fact  that  at  the 
time  the  dramatist  made  his  visit  to  Philadelphia,  the  surpassingly 
excellent  German  theatre  of  this  city  was  not  yet  completed. 

As  a  loyal  son  of  the  Fatherland  Fulda  was,  of  course,  inter- 
ested to  know  in  how  far  the  German  Americans  were  pleased  with 
their  new  surroundings.  His  observation  was  that  they  are  satisfied 
with  their  new  conditions,  and  his  question,  as  to  whether  they 
would  like  to  return  to  the  Fatherland,  was  answered,  almost  uni- 
formly,  in  the  negative,  largely  because  conditions  at  home  have 
changed  so  materially.  Still  he  seems  to  detect  in  the  depths  of 
their  hearts  a  consuming  homesickness — "Heimweh  haben  sie  alle." 
Whether  this  last  assertion  could  be  made  with  so  much  positiveness 
after  an  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  great  farming,  manufactur- 
ing and  laboring  classes,  who,  after  all,  constitute  a  large  percentage 
of  the  German  American  population,  is  not  at  all  so  certain. 

Concerning  American  education  and  methods  of  instruction 
Fulda  waxes  quite  enthusiastic.  He  says :  "If  I  should  say  what 
surprised  me  most  in  America  and  by  far  surpassed  my  expectation, 
I  should  answer  :  It  was  not  the  skyscraper,  the  territorial  extent  of 
the  country,  not  the  gigantic  proportions  of  the  life;  it  was  rather 
the  education  and  the  system  of  instruction."  He  recognizes  in  our 
college  sports  a  wholesome  substitute  for  the  German  duel.  Speak- 
ing of  American  students  he  says :  "Man  sieht  keine  zerhackten  und 
keine  versofifenen  Gesichter."  The  Manual  Training  Schools  were 
a  revelation  and  agreeable  surprise  to  him.  In  co-education  he  sees 
none  of  those  dangers  which  the  opponents  of  the  system  argue, 
but  rather  a  perfectly  natural  condition,  entirely  wholesome  to  both 
sexes.  He  recognizes  in  it  one  of  the  causes  of  the  independence 
of  the  American  woman  and  her  ability  to  shift  for  herself.  She 
knows  herself  to  be  intellectually  the  equal  of  man.  To  this  asso- 
ciation of  the  two  sexes  in  the  schools  Fulda  attributes,  in  a  large 
degree,  the  comparative  moral  purity  of  the  American  youth. 

Under  the  heading,  "Culture  of  the  Masses  and  Art,"  he  com- 
pliments the  systems  of  University  Extension  and  the  Chautauqua, 
which  bring  culture  to  those  who  cannot  attend  college.  Of  our 
libraries  he  speaks  in  warmest  terms,  and  contrasts  the  ease  of  find- 


64  Reviezvs 

ing;  books  and  the  liberality  in  the  free  use  of  them,  with  the  anti- 
quated library  methods  prevalent  in  his  own  country.  The  excessive 
haste  with  which  American  newspapers  gather  and  disseminate  news 
seems  to  him  to  be  of  questionable  value  as  a  means  of  educating  the 
masses,  and  the  persistent  and  omnipresent  reporter  and  interviewer 
are  abominations  in  his  eyes.  He  recognizes  our  want  of  true  art 
and  finds  its  cause  in  the  newness  of  our  country  and  the  unsettled 
condition  of  our  people.  He  asserts  that  no  colony  ever  produced 
great  works  of  art.  We  still  fail  to  utilize  the  material  which  nature 
and  our  own  history  so  abundantly  offer.  Willing  hands  have 
lavishly  supplied  museums  and  galleries  with  money,  but  the  true 
artist  is  not  produced  by  money.  As  playwright  he  especially  notes 
the  absence  of  a  truly  American  drama. 

He  is  justly  astonished  at  the  ways  in  which  laws  are  evaded 
in  America. 

As  general  characteristics  he  credits  us  with  singular  patience 
(a  conclusion  which  more  intimate  acquaintance  might  not  substan- 
tiate), optimism,  hospitality,  honesty  in  little  things,  rascality  in  the 
large  ones,  and  a  decided  tendency  towards  chauvinism. 

All  in  all,  he  has  obtained  a  very  fair  view  of  America,  of  our 
strong  points  and  our  weaknesses.  He  is  convinced  of  the  enor- 
mous potential  wealth  and  the  still  latent  energy  in  this  country.  In 
conclusion  he  says :  "If  the  Old  World  is  not  to  be  overshadowed 
by  the  New,  if  she  is  not  eventually  to  be  crushed  by  her  superior 
force  even  without  hostile  contact,  she  has  only  one  single  expedient. 
The  hope,  however,  that  it  will  be  opportunely  applied  seems  to  be 
more  Utopian  now  tlian  ever.  It  is  called :  The  United  States 
of  Europe."  Wm.  G.  Bek, 


©crman  Qmcrican  Qnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


A   BI-MONTHLY   DEVOTED   TO   THE   COMPARATIVE  STUDY  OF  THE 

Historical,  Literary,  Linguistic,  Educational  and  Commercial  Relations 

OF 

Germany  and  America 


ORGAN  OF 

The  German  American  Historical  Society 
The  National  German  American  Alliance 
The  Union  of  Old  German  Studettts  in  Atnerica 


EDITOR, 

MARION  DEXTER  LEARNED, 

University  of  Pennsylvania. 
CONTRIBUTING  EDITORS  : 
H.  C.  G.  Brandt,  Julius  Goebel, 

Hamilton  College.  Harvard  University. 

W.  H.  Carpenter,  J.  T.  Hatfield, 

Columbia  University.  Northwestern  University. 

W.  H.  Carruth,  W.  T.  Hewett, 

University  of  Kansas.  Cornell  University, 

Hermann  Collitz,  A.  R.  Hohlfeld, 

Bryn  Mawr  College.  University  of  Wisconsin. 

Starr  W.  Cutting,  Hugo  K.  Schilling, 

University  of  Chicago.  University  of  California. 

Daniel  K.  Dodge,  H.  Schmidt-Wartenberg, 

University  of  Illinois.  University  of  Chicago. 

A.  B.  Faust,  Hermann  Schoenfeld, 

Cornell  University.  Columbian  University. 

KuNO  Francke,  Calvin  Thomas, 

'  Harvard  University.  Columbia  University. 

Adolph  Gerber,  H.  S.  White, 

Late    of   Earlham  College.  Harvard  University. 

Henry  Wood,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 


New  Series,  Vol.  5.  Old  Series,  Vol.  9. 

1907. 


published   BY 

THE  GERMAN  AMERICAN  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY 

Chas.  H.  Breitbarth,  Business  Manager, 

809  Spring  Garden  Street, 

IPbiladelpbfa. 


JBetUn:  Ulcwlotl;:  Xefpsiflt 

MAYER  &  Mt)LLER  CARL  A.  STERN  F.  A.  BROCKHAUS 

Xon&on:  Paris  !^ 

KEGAN,  PAUL  TRENCH.  TRUBNER  &  CO..  Ltd.  H.  LeSOUDIER 


(Scrman  Qmcrican  Clnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


New  Series,  March  and  April  Old  Series, 

Vol.  V.     No.   2.  1907.  Vol.   IX.     No.   2. 


DIALECTAL  PECULIARITIES  IN  THE  CARLISLE  VER- 
NACULAR. 

The  town  of  Carlisle,  the  county  seat  of  Cumberland  County, 
is  situated  eighteen  miles  southwest  of  Harrisburg,  in  the  midst 
of  the  fertile  and  beautiful  Cumberland  Valley. 

Cumberland  County  was  formed  from  a  part  of  Lancaster 
County,  in  1750.  In  1757,  the  town  of  Carlisle  was  surveyed 
and  on  July  23,  of  the  same  year,  by  order  of  the  Governor  of 
Pennsylvania  the  first  court  of  Common  Pleas  was  held  there. 
With  this  date  the  history  of  Carlisle  as  a  town  may  be  said  to 
commence. 

The  inhabitants  of  the  town,  exclusive  of  the  two  thousand 
negroes,  are  largely  descended  from  the  Scotch-Irish  and  from 
the  Germans,  The  former  were  the  first  settlers.  The  latter  be- 
gan to  settle  in  the  valley  about  1760,  though  the  great  influx  did 
not  begin  till  ten  years  later.  By  the  year  1775,  however,  the 
Germans  had  become  so  numerous  that  two  religious  denomina- 
tions had  been  organized  in  the  town. 

In  the  early  history  of  Carlisle,  the  services  in  the  Lutheran 
church  were  conducted  in  German,  which  was  however,  gradually 

(67) 


68  Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the  Carlisle  Ver^iacular. 

replaced  by  English  to  meet  the  desires  and  needs  of  the  younger 
generation.  In  1858,  those  Lutherans  who  desired  to  have  the 
service  exclusively  in  German  established  a  separate  church.  This 
flourished  for  a  time  but  as  the  younger  generations  came  on 
they  desired  and  demanded  that  the  services  be  conducted  in 
English.  This  led  to  a  compromise,  one  service  on  Sunday  in 
German  and  one  in  English.  In  1896,  the  charter  of  this  church 
was  changed  so  that  all  of  the  services  might  be  conducted  in 
English.  Soon  afterwards  the  little  German  church  was 
abandoned,  a  new  chapel  was  built  to  which  is  now  being  added 
one  of  the  handsomest  church  buildings  in  the  country.  The 
change  in  the  charter  of  this  church  in  1896  marks  the 
final  Americanization  of  the  German  element  of  Carlisle.  The 
change  had,  of  course,  been  gradual  but  it  had  been  thorough. 

This  took  place  only  eleven  years  ago  but  so  thoroughly  have 
the  Germans  been  amalgamated  that  a  stranger  coming  to  the 
town  to-day  finds  scarcely  any  traces  of  their  existence.  No  Ger- 
man is  spoken  on  the  streets,  and  even  in  the  market  house  one 
scarcely  ever  hears  any  Pennsylvania  Dutch.  If,  perchance,  you 
should  ask  a  Carli'sler  if  he  knows  Pennsylvania  Dutch,  he  will 
reply  with  dignity  that  he  is  Scotch-Irish  and  properly  impressed 
with  your  own  impertinence  you  will  pass  on  your  way. 

In  the  year  1899  I  became  a  resident  of  Carlisle  and  having 
had  some  linguistic  training  I  was  soon  struck  by  certain  peculiar- 
ities in  the  vernacular,  which  impressed  me  as  being  dialectal.  I 
began  to  make  note  of  expressions  which  differed  from  my  own 
speech  and  have  continued  to  do  so  ever  since.  It  is  with  the  re- 
sult of  these  observations,  covering  a  period  of  seven  years,  that 
this  paper  has  to  deal. 

Before  proceeding  to  a  discussion  of  the  particular  expres- 
sions involved  a  few  words  in  reference  to  the  method  pursued  in 
collecting  them  may  be  in  order. 

In  no  case  have  I  hunted  after  strange  words  or  forms  of 
speech  but  in  every  case  have  noted  only  such  expressions  as  oc- 


Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the   Carlisle  Vernacular.  69 

curred  in  the  speech  of  the  person  with  whom  I  was  conversing. 
Had  I  really  searched  for  rare  birds,  I  could  have  increased  the 
list  largely  but  it  would  not  have  been  representative  of  all  the  peo- 
ple. All  of  the  expressions  noted  I  have  heard  used  again  and 
again  by  merchants,  by  college  students,  and  by  the  best  people 
of  the  town.  It  is  not  necessary  to  say  that  there  are  many  peo- 
ple who  speak  an  English,  which  is  practically  dialect  free. 

The  population  of  the  town  being  such  as  I  have  described 
it,  we  should  naturally  expect  the  language  to  reflect  in  some  de- 
gree the  racial  peculiarities  of  the  people.  The  Carlisle  Vernacu- 
lar should  retain  traces  of  Scotch  (English)  and  of  German. 

The  major  portion  of  this  study  will  be  devoted  to  vocabu- 
lary, for  reasons  which  will  appear  later. 

For  convenience  the  various  words  and  expressions  are  ar- 
ranged alphabetically : 

Against  :  ( i )  Preposition  —  in  contrast  to,  e.  g.  These  shoes 
look  new  against  yours.  This  use  of  the  word  evidently 
arose  from  the  German  "gegen"  in  this  sense,  which  was 
translated  into  English. 

(2)  Conjunction  —  By  the  time,  e.  g.  against  I  get  my 
pastoral  calls  finished,  I  have  no  time  for  social  ones. 
This  is  colloquial  English. 

All  :  used  as  in  German  to  denote  that  the  supply  of  an  article 
is  exhausted,  e.  g.  The  butter  is  all.  The  examples  might 
be  increased  ad  libitum.  We  have  here,  of  course,  a  simple 
translation  and  adoption  of  the  German  expression. 

Already  (commonly  contracted  to  a'ready)  :  In  actual  mean- 
ing this  word  does  not  differ  from  the  regular  English  usage. 
It  is  used  in  Carlisle,  however,  much  more  frequently  than 
in  communities  where  there  is  no  German  influence,  and  to 
one  familiar  with  this  language  it  is  evident  that  it  is  influ- 
enced by  Ger.  schon. 

Have  you  studied  algebra? 


70  Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the   Carlisle  Vernaczdar. 

I  had  it  already  in  my  Freshman  year. 
Do  you  know  the  old  Stone  Tavern  ? 
I  have  seen  it  already. 

How  many  pair  of  shoes  can  you  sole  in  a  day? 
I  have  half-soled  three  pair  already  in  my  time. 

Beal  (pr.  beel)  :  to  fester,  suppurate,  "He  has  a  healed  ear 
or  finger." 

This  word,  which  the  dictionaries  mark  obsolete  except 
in  Scotland,  is  still  generally  used. 

Bealing:  "A  boil."  This  substantive  from  the  verb  "to 
beal"  has  taken  the  place  of  the  old  noun  beal. 

We  have  here  a  bit  of  word-making  taking  place  in  the 
dialect.  The  new  noun  healing  has  been  made  from  the  verb 
to  heal,  whereas,  historically,  the  reverse  is  true;  the  verb 
heal  beine  derived  from  the  noun  heal. 

o 

Dare  :  To  denote  permission  instead  of  may,  e.  g.  you  dare  go. 
Dare  I  go  out. 

Students  regularly  translate  darf  ich  zvagen  by  "dare  I 
venture." 

The  universal  use  of  dare  in  this  sense  I  believe  is  due  to 
the  influence  of  Ger.  .dilrfen. 

Deaf:  (pr.  deef)  :  sterile,  blasted. 

The  word  is  restricted,  I  believe,  to  the  kernels  of  nuts,  as 
a  deaf  walnut. 

Flit  :  to  move  from  one  place  to  another. 

Flitting:  (i)  A  removal  from  one  place  to  another.  (2) 
Household  effects  in  the  course  of  removal  from  one  place 
to  another. 

In  these  words,  which  are  north  Eng.  or  Scotch,  we  see 
the  influence  of  the  Scotch-Irish  portion  of  the  population. 

Get  :  in  the  expression  "to  get  company,"  e.  g.  "we  are  getting 
company  to-morrow"  ef.  Ger.  "wir  bokonmen  Besuch." 


Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the  Carlisle  Vernacular.  71 

Leave  —  Eng.  "let"  is  of  common  occurrence,  but  since  this  is 
usual  in  the  vulgar  speech  of  all  communities,  it  needs  no 
further  comment  here. 

Let  :  —  Eng.  "leave,"  e.  g.  I  let  the  book  in  the  room.  (This 
usage  is  frequent,  but  not  common.)  Although  it  is  obso- 
lete English,  there  seems  no  doubt  that  Ger.  "lassen"  has 
been  the  chief  factor  in  preserving  it  in  this  locality. 

On  :  ( I )  —  Eng.  "for"  with  wait,  e.  g.  Wait  on  me.  I  waited 
fifteen  minutes  on  the  car. 

Although  there  is  an  obsolete  Eng.  exprescsion  to  wait  on 
meaning  to  expect,  look  for  (cf.  Cent.  Diet,  wait,  4,  d), 
which  is  similar  in  meaning  to  this  usage,  I  am  nevertheless 
inclined  to  believe  that  we  have  here  a  translation  of  Ger. 
"auf."  Even  if  we  assume  that  it  is  a  survival  of  the  obsolete 
Eng.  expression,  there  seems  to  be  no  doubt  that  its  per- 
sistence is  due  to  German  influence.  (2)  —  Eng.  "in"  in 
the  phrase  "on  the  attic,"  which  is  universally  used.  This  is 
plainly  a  translation  of  Ger.  "auf  dem  Boden." 

Once:  used  as  an  expletive  —  Ger.  einmal,  e.  g.  come  here 

once. 

This  word  is  of  common  occurrence,  and  since  it  Is  for- 
eign to  English  usage,  we  must  likewise  attribute  it  to  the 
German. 
Outen:  to  put  out,  e.  g.  "Shall  I  onten  the  light."  [Prov.  Eng.] 

Pair  :  —  "a  few."  cf.  German  "ein  paar." 

Although  I  have  heard  only  one  instance  of  this  usage,  I 
am  informed  that  it  is  quite  common  among  the  uneducated. 

Red  up  :  to  put  to  rights,  clean,  e.  g.  I  must  red  up  the  room. 

Slippy  :  —  slippery. 

Should:  in  the  German  sense  of  report,  to  be  said,  e.  g.     He 

should  have  said  that  i.  e.  he  is  said  to  have  said 

that er  sollte  gesagt  haben,  dass 


72  Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the  Cat  lisle    Vernacular. 

Still:  The  Century  Dictionary  under  the  adverb  ''still"  (2) 
gives  the  meaning  constantly,  continually,  habitually,  al- 
ways, ever,  as  in  common  use.  The  following  examples  are 
cited : 

Thou  still  hast  been  the  father  of  good  news. 

Shak.  Hamlet,  11,  2,  42. 

What  a  set  face  the  gentlewoman  has,  as  she  were  still 
going  to  a  sacrifice ! 

B.  Johnson,  Cynthia's  Revels  iv,  i. 

O  first  of  friends!  (Pelides  thus  replied), 
Still  at  my  heart,  and  ever  at  my  side. 

Pope,  Iliad  XL  743. 

Despite  the  definition  and  examples,  I  think  the  following 
specimens  of  the  Carlisle  dialect  will  strike  the  ordinary 
American  as  strange  and  unfamiliar,  though  they  are  evi- 
dently survivals  of  this  usage. 

Can  you  take  away  my  ashes  ? 

If  you  save  them  I  will  get  them  still  (a  negro). 

A  barber,  in  speaking  of  a  certain  hair  tonic,  which  he 
considered  the  best,  said : 

That's  what  I  tell  them  still.  That  is,  I  always  tell  people 
that  when  they  ask  about  hair  tonics. 

A  market  woman,  when  asked  whether  certain  apples  were 
pippins,  replied : 

We  still  call  them  little  yellow  apples. 

A  carpenter,  in  speaking  about  bidding  good-bye  to  his 
parrot,  said : 

I  tell  him  still  when  I  go  to  work. 

A  storekeeper,  in  telling  how  many  students  brought 
kerosene  cans  to  his  store  to  be  filled,  remarked : 

What  a  string  of  kerosene  cans  we  would  have  to  fill 
sHll. 

I  often  hear  Jersey  people  use  idioms  which  seem  funny 


Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the   Carlisle  Vernacular.  73 

to  me  still.  This  student,  who  is  of  German  extraction,  says 
he  did  not  use  this  zvord  till  he  became  a  resident  of  CarHsle. 

You  could  hear  him  swearing  still  whenever  you  went 
near  his  house. 

He  still  writes  me  about  the  good  fishing  out  there. 

A  girl  was  calling  to  another,  who  replied:  Don't  yell 
so  much,  I  heard  you  still. 

If  we  examine  these  expressions  we  find  the  meaning  of 
still  to  be  that  given  by  the  Century  Dictionary,  but  it  would 
be  difficult  to  persuade  one  that  they  are  specimens  of  normal 
English.  They  are  evidently  survivals  of  this  old  use  of 
"still"  due,  doubtless,  to  Scotch-Irish  influence.* 

Strange:  shy,  diffident,  bashful,  "your  children  are  strange." 
This  is  an  extension  of  the  older  Eng.  usage  (cf.  Cent. 
Diet,  strange,  6). 

Till  :  instead  of  by  in  expressions  of  time. 

I  must  get  my  shoes  till  Sunday. 

I  will  make  it  up  till  next  lesson. 

In  this  use  of  Hll,  which  is  extremely  common,  we  have 
simply  a  translation  of  the  German  "bis"  in  similar  expres- 
sions. 

That:  (i)  The  demonstrative  that  is  frequently  used  as  the 
subject  of  the  verb  "to  be,"  where  in  normal  English  we 
employ  this  or  it. 

That  :  e.  g.  that's  a  cold  day  to-day. 

I  have  been  unable  to  account  for  this  usage  satisfac- 
torily. At  first  sight,  one  naturally  thinks  of  the  German 
"das  ist  heute  kalt,"  but  this  use  of  das  is  not  found  in  Penn- 
sylvania German,  which  is  probably  the  German  of  Carlisle. 
I  say  probably,  because  I  have  not  investigated  the  history 


*I  attribute  this  survival  to  Scotch-Irish'  influence  because  I  know  of  no 
other  cause.  I  should  be  glad  to  learn  whether  it  is  used  in  other  Scotch- 
Irish  communities. 


74  Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the   Carlisle   Vernacular. 

of  the  Germans  here,  nor  am  I  able  to  discover  any  precise 
information  on  the  subject.  If  it  should  develop  on  in- 
vestigation that  any  considerable  portion  of  the  population 
spoke  a  dialect,  in  which  "das  ist  heute  kalt"  was  used, 
then  we  might  reasonably  class  this  among  the  German- 
isms. If,  on  the  other  hand,  as  is  doubtless  the  case,  the 
German  of  Carlisle  was  Pennsylvania  German,  then  we  must 
explain  this  usage  as  English,  but  what  sort  of  English  ? 

When  we  pet  a  dog  we  say  "That's  a  nice  dog,"  or  when 
something  goes  wrong  we  say  "That's  a  nice  kettle  of  fish" 
or  "That's  a  fine  state  of  affairs."  Is  the  use  of  that  under 
discussion  a  possible  extension  of  the  usage  illustrated  in 
these  expressions?  If  it  is  of  English  origin,  it  seems  that 
we  must  explain  it  in  this  way. 

Toot  —  a  paper  bag.  This  comes  evidently  through  Pa.  Ger. 
Tilte. 

Towards  —  in  contrast  to,  in  comparision  with,  e.  g.  Your  shoes 
look  new  tozvards  mine.  Since  this  usage  is  altogether  alien 
to  English,  I  take  it  that  we  have  here  another  translation 
of  Ger.  "gcgen/'  cf.  against  —  gcgen. 

Watch  up  —  to  observe  carefully,  keep  an  eye  upon,  e.  g.  "I 
will  watch  it  up,"  said  a  physician  when  consulted  about  a 
certain  ailment.  I  am  unable  to  acount  for  this  use  of  "up," 
unless  it  comes  from  such  expressions  as  "hold  up,"  mean- 
ing wait,  and  "wait  up,"  where  up  seems  merely  to  intensify 
the  meaning  of  the  verb. 

Yet  —  I.  In  addition  to  what  has  preceded,  too.  One  warm  day  I 
was  comfortably  ensconced  on  a  couch  enjoying  a  post- 
^  prandial  cigar;  a  friend  sitting  near  me  inquired: 
(i)   Do  you  want  to  be  fanned  yetl 
A  doctor,  in  describing  his  rifle,  said  to  me : 
(2)    I  have  a  rifle  which  can  shoot  through  two  trees 
and  kill  a  mati  yet. 


Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the  Carlisle  Vernacular.  75 

My  neighbor's  yard  slopes  so  that  the  water  runs  into 
my  cellar.     In  describing  this  to  a  carpenter,  he  said : 

(3)  And  they  have  a  posey  bed  yet  against  the  wall,  i.  e. 
in  addition  to  a  yard  sloping  the  wrong  way,  they  have  a 
flower  bed  against  the  wall. 

"Yet,"  meaning  in  addition  to,  is  found  in  English,  usually 
with  comparatives.  In  meaning  it  is  closely  akin  with  its 
use  here,  but  I  believe  that  everyone  unfamiliar  with  the  dia- 
lect under  discussion  will  admit  that  these  expressions  are 
unusual.  In  view  of  what  has  already  been  said,  the  mere 
suggestion  of  "noch"  will,  I  believe,  suggest  the  proper  ex- 
planation of  this  use  of  yet  to  one  familiar  with  the  German 
language. 

II.  —  still  —  Ger.  "noch." 

When  we  lived  in  the  country  -yet. 

III.  In  certain  cases  "yet"  seems  to  be  used  merely  as  an  in- 
tensive. For  example,  I  once  asked  a  student  how  often  he 
had  Latin,  to  which  he  replied,  "Every  day  in  the  week 
yet" ,  that  is  "I  have  Latin  every  single  day". 

On  another  occasion  I  said  to  a  coachman  "you  are  making 
money  these  days,"  He  replied  "Yes,  but  I  have  to  work 
tard,  I  have  been  up  till  two  o'clock  three  nights  this  week 
yet."  As  far  as  I  can  see,  "yet"  merely  emphasizes  the 
statement,  "I  have  been  up  till  two  o'clock  three  nights  this 
week."  cf.  Ich  ware  noch  diese  Woche  in  die  Stadt  gezogen, 
ware  das  Wetter  nicht  so  schon  gewesen. 

IV.  German  "doch." 

A  boy  was  showing  me  a  room  which  a  friend  had  dec- 
orated with  playing  cards ;  he  said :  "The  boy  that  decorated 
this  room  seemed  to  know  a  good  poker  hand,  and  he's  a 
preacher  yet!^ 

V.  —  Ger.  "noch."' 

Must  these  envelopes  be  sent  out  this  week,  yef^. 


7t)  Dialectal  Peadiarities  in  the  Carlisle  Vernacidar. 

From  the  examples  given  it  is  perfectly  evident  that  we 
have  here  various  translations  and  adoptions  of  Ger.  "doch" 
and  "noch." 

This  completes  the  list  of  peculiarities  in  vocabulary;  let 
us  now  turn  our  attention  to  the  subject  of  Syntax,  which  can, 
unfortunately,  be  disposed  of  in  a  few  words,  as  I  have  noticed 
but  three  peculiarities,  which  are  so  general  as  to  cause  comment. 
There  may  be  others,  but  in  conversation  they  pass  without  at- 
tracting attention.  The  first  example  is  the  frequent  use  of  the 
present  tense  instead  of  the  perfect  to  denote  an  action  begun  in 
the  past  and  continued  in  the  present  e.  g.  "I  have  had  only  one 
since  I  am  here.  As  far  as  I  have  observed,  this  use  of  the  present 
occurs  only  in  clauses  introduced  by  since,  though  it  doubtless 
occurs  likewise  in  independent  clauses.  This  is,  of  course,  the 
well-known  German  use  of  the  present  tense  instead  of  the  Eng- 
lish perfect. 

The  second  syntactic  peculiarity  is  the  use  of  the  verb  "want" 
as  auxiliary  without  a  dependent  infinitive,  e.  g.  "Do  you  want 
in,  outy,  up,  down,  etc."  :  "I  only  want  at  that  stuff  once  a 
week."  Although  I  have  been  on  the  alert  for  this  usage  with 
other  auxiliaries,  none  has  come  to  my  notice. 

We  have  here,  due  to  Scotch-Irish,  a  survival  of  what  was 
once  common  in  English.  The  reason  for  its  survival  with 
"want"  seems  to  lie  in  the  transitive  meaning  of  this  verb.  When 
a  child  says  "I  want  out,"  he  is  not  thinking  of  the  verb  go,  so 
much  as  he  is  of  the  place  or  state  designated  by  out,  i.  e.  I  want 
to  he  out,  rather  than  to  go  out.  The  phrase  to  be  out  really  ex- 
presses a  state  or  condition  which  is  the  object  of  the  verb 
want. 

The  third  syntactic  peculiarity  is  the  cjuite  common  use  of 
the  old  ethical  dative,  e.  g.  My  dog  died  for  me. 

A  father,  bringing  his  young  son  to  college,  said :  "I  am 
afraid  he  will  get  homesick  for  mc."  The  conversation  showed 
that  this  was  an  ethical  dative.     The  man  meant  that  the  boy 


Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the  Carlisle  Vernacular.  77 

would  get  homesick  not  for  himself  in  particular,  but  for  every- 
body and  everything  at  home. 

Let  us  now  turn  to  a  consideration  of  accent  and  first  to  the 
pronunciation  of  the  word  balcony,  which  is  the  only  word  whose 
accent  has  struck  me  as  peculiar.  It  is  very  frequently,  though 
not  universally,  accented  on  the  second  syllable,  which  is,  of 
course,  the  older  English  pronunciation.  Its  retention  is  doubt- 
less due  to  Scotch-Irish  influence. 

The  most  striking  peculiarity  of  the  Carlisle  dialect,  the  one 
which  instantly  attracts  the  attention  of  a  person  unfamiliar  with 
it,  is  the  sentence  stress  in  interrogative  sentences.  I  am  pre- 
pared here  only  to  mention  this  for  two  reasons :  first,  because  it 
is  an  extremely  difficult  matter  to  explain  on  paper;  secondly, 
because  I  have  never  been  able  to  offer  any  satisfactory  explana- 
tion of  it.  In  passing,  I  may  simply  say  that  there  is  a  difference 
between  real  questions,  asking  for  information  and  between  ques- 
tions expressing  surprise.  For  example,  in  the  question  "Are 
you  going  down  town?"  the  voice  is  not  kept  up  on  town,  but 
we  have  a  circumflex  accent  on  the  word,  the  voice  being  lower 
at  end  of  the  word  than  in  any  other  part  of  the  sentence.  In  a 
question  of  surprise,  as,  The  man  died  last  night.  Did  he?  we 
have  what  may  be  called  a  circumflex  sentence  stress,  the  pitch 
being  highest  in  the  middle  of  the  sentence  and  lowest  at  the  end. 

I  hope  at  some  future  time  to  secure  phonographic  repro- 
ductions of  this  accent,  when  I  shall  be  able  to  examine  it  more 
carefully,  and  I  may  then  be  able  to  offer  some  explanation  of  it. 

If  now  we  examine  the  material  presented,  and  if  we  admit 
as  we  must,  that  the  various  expressions  depart  sufficiently  from 
normal  English  to  warrant  our  calling  them  dialectal,  it  will  be 
an  easy  matter  to  characterize  these  variations  and  to  attribute 
them  to  their  proper  causes.  The  Carlisle  vernacular  reflects 
very  cFearly  the  dual  character  of  the  population.  We  have 
found  a  few  survivals  of  obsolete  or  obsolescent  English  due 
to  the  influence  of  the  Scotch-Irish,  but  it  must  be  remembered 
that  the  persistence  of  some  of  these  was  traceable  to  the  influ- 


78  Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the  Carlisle  Vernacular. 

ence  of  similar  German  words.  The  vast  majority  of  all  the 
deviations  from  the  English  norm  are  directly  traceable  to  the  in- 
fluence of  the  Germans,  who  since  the  latter  part  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  formed  a  considerable  part  of  the  population.  This,  I 
believe,  has  been  sufficiently  proved  in  the  foregoing  pages,  but  if 
other  proof  is  needed,  it  is  only  necessary  to  remark  that  nearly 
all  of  the  peculiarities  of  the  Carlisle  vernacular  are  also  found 
in  the  speech  of  other  localities  where  there  is  a  considerable 
Pennsylvania  German  population. 

That  the  Gemians  have  left  the  imprint  of  their  language 
upon  the  speech  of  the  town  is  not  surprising.  It  would  be 
strange,  indeed,  if  one  race  living  for  more  than  a  century  side 
by  side  with  another  had  not  left  behind  it  some  clear  traces  of  its 
existence.  The  surprising  thing  is  not  that  there  are  some  relics 
of  German  in  Carlisle  English,  but  that  there  are  not  more.  We 
must  remember,  however,  what  was  said  in  the  beginning.  Car- 
lisle to-day  is  completely  Americanized ;  the  German  element  has 
been  amalgamated  and  all  the  cultural  forces  in  the  community 
are  tending  to  destroy  rather  than  preserve  traces  of  German 
influence.  The  older  Germans  either  have  passed  or  are  rapidly 
passing  away;  the  children  in  the  schools  read  only  English, 
and  when  they  come  in  contact  with  teachers  who  come  from  a 
distance  or  who,  through  training,  have  their  attention  called  to 
their  peculiarities.  As  they  grow  up,  many  of  the  boys  leave 
town  and,  once  away  from  Carlisle,  they  notice  how  their  speech 
differs  from  that  of  those  with  whom  they  associate.  Quite  a 
number  of  young  men  and  women  enter  the  college  (Dickinson) 
and  while  there  have  their  attention  continually  called  to  what- 
ever diatectal  expressions  they  may  use. 

Finally,  the  large  number  of  people  who  are  practically  dia- 
lect-free, are  the  most  powerful  element  in  the  process  of  nonnal- 
ization  which  is  constantly  in  progress.  With  all  these  forces 
at  work  it  is,  of  course,  only  a  question  of  time  till  these  expres- 
sions disappear  from  use. 

In  view  of  these  facts  it  seemed  desirable  to  record  the  vari- 


Dialectal  Peculiarities  in  the  Carlisle  Vernacular.  79 

ous  expressions  to  which  attention  has  been  called,  while  they  are 
still  an  integral  part  of  the  town's  vocabulary.  In  so  doing  I 
hope  to  have  contributed  slightly  to  our  knowledge  of  the  German 
influence  upon  the  language  of  Pennsylvania,  an  influence  which 
is,  of  course,  recognized  by  those  who  know,  but  which  can  only 
be  definitely  determined  by  investigations  similar  to  the  one 
made  here. 

William  Prettyman. 

Dickinson  College,  Carlisle,  Pa. 


PATRIOTISCHE  BETRACHTUNGEN.* 

Wer  im  Laiife  der  letzteii  Jahre  die  deiitsche  Heimat  wie- 
derholentlich  besucht  hat,  dem  ist  gewiss  aufge fallen,  wie  sehr 
driiben  das  Interesse  fiir  unser  Land  von  Jahr  zn  Jahr  gestiegen 
ist.  Die  Amerikafahrt  des  Prinzen  Heinrich  von  Preussen,  die 
grossartige  Beschickung  der  St.  Louiser  Weltausstellung  von 
seiten  des  Deutschen  Reiches  iind  das  stetige  Anschwellen  der 
Literatur  liber  Amerika  und  die  Amerikaner  liefern  die  deutlich- 
sten  Beweise  fiir  dieses  Interesse. 

Aber  man  macht  sich  trotzdem  in  Deutschland  eigentlich 
kein  klares  Bild  von  unseren  Zustanden,  und  die  Flut  der  Biicher, 
Broschuren  und  Feuilletons  iiber  Amerika  hat  sich  bis  jetzt  noch 
nicht  fahig  erwiesen,  die  in  Deutschland  landlaufigen  phantasti- 
schen  Vorstellungen  iiber  Amerika  zu  berichtigen.  Die  Verfas- 
ser  kennen  in  manchen  Fallen  das  Land  nur  obenhin  aus  fliich- 
tiger  Durchfahrt,  oder  sie  kamen  gar  iiber  die  Umgegend  von 
Hoboken  mit  ihren  landschaftlichen  und  alkoholischen  Reizen 
uberhaupt  nicht  hinaus.  Bei  anderen  Touristen  ist  wenigstens 
das  redliche  Bemuhen  ersichtlich,  in  das  Wesen  der  fremden 
Kultur  einzudringen,  und  das  vorhandene  Verstandnis  fur  manche 
ihrer  greifbarsten  Erscheinungen  verdient  Anerkennung.  Aber 
wenn  man  etwa  wahrnimmt,  wie  sich  selbst  unter  den  liebevoU 
zeichnenden  Handen  eines  Wilhelm  von  Polenz  das  Bild  Ame- 
rikas  bis  zur  Unkenntlichkeit  verzerrt,  so  lernt  man  begreifen, 
dass  sich  vermittels  blosser  Reiseeindriicke  das  wahre  Wesen 
eines  Volkes  nie  und  nimmermehr  erfassen  lasst.  Jedoch  selbst 
den  Urteilen  langjahriger   Kenner   ist   nicht   ohne   weiteres   zu 


*Der  lette  Teil  dieses  Aufsatzes  ist  einer  von  dem  Verfasser  auf  dem 
Germanistischen  Kongress  gehaltenen  Rede  (Siehe  G.  A.  A.,  N.  S.  II.,  No. 
12)  entnommen. 

(80) 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  8i 

trauen.  In  cler  Tat  vermochte  bisher  kein  einziger  iinter  ihnen 
Amerikas  Leben  in  seiner  g-anzen  Vielwendigkeit  organisch  zu 
erklaren.  Kein  Mensch  ist  eben  imstande,  den  Historiker  und 
Politiker,  National-Oekonomen  und  Juristen,  Soziologen  und 
Techniker,  Kaufmann  und  Lehrer  in  einer  Person  zu  vereinen. 
Und  das  ware  im  Grunde  die  Voraussetzung  fiir  die  durchaus 
zufriedenstellende  Behandlung  eines  so  komplizierten  Themas. 

Unter  den  Vorarbeiten  auf  dem  weiten  Felde  der  Amerika- 
kunde  gebiihrt  Prof.  Miinsterbergs  zweibiindigem  Werk  ,,Die 
Amerikaner"  der  erste  Platz.  Ja,  hiltte  Miinsterberg  nicht  durch 
seine  Absicht,  driiben  gute  Stimmung  fiir  uns  zu  machen,  sein 
Urteil  gelegentlich  auf  Abwege  fiihren  lassen;  litte  nicht  sein 
griindliches  und  in  den  meisten  Stiicken  gediegenes  Buch  unter 
dem  iibermassigen  Schematismus  des  Grundbaus ;  und  bezoge 
sich  nicht  seine  Darstellung  mehr  auf  eine  besondere  Gesell- 
schaftsschicht  als  auf  die  Gesamtheit  des  amerikanischen  Volkes, 
so  hatte  das  reiche,  beinahe  universelle  Wissen  des  Verfassers  im 
Bunde  mit  seiner  sicheren  Menschenkenntnis  und  Kiinstlerklar- 
heit  hier  ein  wahrhaft  monunientales  Werk  zustande  gebracht. 
Unleugbar  hatte  Miinsterberg  wahrend  eines  zwolfjahrigen  Auf- 
enthalts  mehr  iiber  Land  und  Leute  nachgedacht  und  gelernt  als 
die  grosse  Mehrzahl  eingewanderter  oder  auch  hier  geborener 
Deutschen.  Denn  gerade  der  Deutschamerikaner  tragt  wunder- 
barer  Weise  eine  krasse  Unkenntnis  des  amerikanischen  Lebens 
im  volleren  Sinn  des  VVortes  zur  Schau.  Viele  in  unserer  Mitte 
halten  es  anscheinend  fiir  iiberfliissig,  sich  mit  ihren  Mitbiirgern 
anderen  Stammes  anders  als  auf  rein  geschaftlichem  Wege  einzu- 
lassen.  Meisthin  bezeichnen  wir  diese  kurzweg  als  ,,Amerikaner" 
und  betrachten  und  behandeln  sie,  wenn  der  Ausdruck  gestattet 
ist,  durchaus  als  Aussenseiter.  Wahrend  Miinsterberg  das  Typi- 
sche  des  Amerikanertums  bei  einem  Hauflein  Auserwahlter  sucht, 
verfallen  wir  gemeinhin  in  den  noch  schlimmeren  entgegengesetz- 
ten  Fehler  und  halten  uns  an  die  rohesten  Elemente.  Ueberhaupt 
haben  wir  Deutschen  ja  fiir  die  hasslichen  Auswiichse  an  einer 


82  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

Volksphysiognomie  einen  scharferen  Blick  als  fiir  die  schoneren 
Ziige.  So  ist  es  manchem  von  iins  ziir  zweiten  Natnr  geworden, 
in  geradezu  unverantwortlicher  Weise  iiber  alles  Amerikanische 
ins  Blaue  hinein  zu  verallgemeinern ;  gerade  wie  ein  deiitscher 
Weltaiisstellungsbeamter,  der  in  meiner  Gegenwart  das  Malheur 
hatte,  dass  seine  spiegelblanke  Lackstiefelette  beim  Uebergang 
iiber  eine  iinserer  belebtesten  Fahrstrassen  mit  einem  erratischen 
Knhfladen  in  intime  Beriihrung  trat,  woranf  der  junge  Herr  mit 
einem  Blick  massloser  Verachtnng  aiif  die  Ursache  seines  Miss- 
geschicks  mir  den  zerschmetternden  Wahrspruch  zuschleuderte : 
,,Echt  amerikanisch !" 

Weil  ich  nun  glaube,  dass  bei  engerem  Zusammenschlusse 
der  deutsch-  und  der  englischsprechenden  Elemente  manches  lei- 
dige  Missverstandnis  aus  der  Welt  geschafft  und  ein  innerer  Zu- 
sammenwuchs  angebahnt  wiirde,  dessen  Vorteile  keineswegs  von 
dem  Deutschen  mit  dem  Preise  seiner  angestammten  Eigenart  zu 
bezahlen  waren,  deshalb  halte  ich  nachfolgende  Erorterungen  fiir 
nicht  unzeitgemass.  Denn  meines  Erachtens  konnen  w^ir  einen 
Umschwung  in  der  jetzt  abwarts  gleitenden  Volksmoral  Ameri- 
kas  nicht  durch  einseitiges  noch  so  lautes  Betonen  vereinzelter 
Grundsatze  oder  durch  einen  gelegentlichen  steifen  Ansturm  ge- 
gen  diese  oder  jene  Hochburg  nativistischer  Beschranktheit  her- 
beifiihren.  Mit  solchen  Mitteln  lasst  sich  hochstens  hie  und  da  ein 
zeitweiliger  Sieg  erringen,  der  auf  beiden  Seiten  viel  Erbitterung 
zuriicklasst  und  die  unterlegene  Partei  bei  der  ersten  Gelegenheit 
zu  noch  verzweifelteren  legislatorischen  Dummheiten  treibt.  Das 
Heil  hangt  vielmehr  einzig  und  allein  davon  ab,  ob  es  gelingt, 
die  offentliche  Meinung  durch  unausgesetzte  erzieherische  Arbeit 
zu  beeinflussen  und,  wo  notig,  umzustimmen. 

Ich  fiirchte  nicht,  mir  den  Namen  eines  guten  Deutschen  zu 
verscherzen,  wenn  ich  nun  ganz  aufrichtig  ausspreche,  was  mir 
bei  der  anzustrebenden  reformatorischen  Tatigkeit  als  das  Aller- 
notigste  fiir  uns  selbst  erscheint:  namlich,  ein  Quentchen  Selbst- 
reform  oder,  wenn  dies  weniger  hart  klingt,  ein  wenig  Selbstver- 
edelung. 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  83 

Wir  haben  in  den  letzten  Jahren  sehr  viel  Lobendes  iiber 
unsere  Tiichtigkeit  zu  horen  bekommen ;  fast  will  micli  bediinken, 
allzuviel.  Man  verzeihe  es  der  redlichen  Absicht,  wenn  sich  hier 
ein  Wort  hervorwagt,  das  weniger  schmeichelhaft  anzuhoren  und 
dennoch  der  Beachtiing  nicht  unwiirdig  sein  mag.  Es  kommt 
mir  namlich  ziiweilen  vor,  als  ob  iinter  tms  Dentschamerikanern 
eine  falsche  sittliche  Genugsamkeit  Platz  gegriffen  habe.  Man 
kann  ja  freilich  imserem  offentlichen  Gehaben  nicht  viel  Schlim- 
mes  nachsagen ;  wir  stehen  in  bezug  auf  politische  und  biirgerliche 
Rechtlichkeit  relativ  sogar  hoch,  obschon  wir  uns  von  Korruption 
durchaus  nicht  vollig  freigehalten  haben.  Aber  auf  eine  Tugend, 
die  bestenfalls  in  Unterlassung  der  Niedertracht  besteht,  unseren 
Ruhm  zu  bauen,  ware  abgeschmackt.  Nun,  wir  konnen  ihn  gott- 
lob  auch  auf  positive  Leistungen  begriinden.  Legen  wir  jedoch 
den  ehrenvollsten,  d.  h.  den  strengsten,  Massstab  an  uns  selber  an, 
so  wirft  sich  uns  eine  ganze  Reihe  von  Fragen  recht  verfanglicher 
Art  auf.  Haben  wir  dem  amerikanischen  Leben  die  besten  Ziige 
unserer  Wesenheit  starkwillig  aufgepragt?  Sind  deutscher  Ide- 
alismus,  deutsche  Tiefe  und  Griindlichkeit,  deutsche  Treue  und 
deutscher  Opfermut  der  Sauerteig  unseres  politischen  Lebens  ge- 
worden?  Auf  das  glorreiche  Wirken  unserer  deutschen  Pilger- 
vater  auf  diesem  Boden  haben  wir  ein  gutes  Recht  stolz  zu  sein. 
Aber  wir  sollten  auch  unbefangen  priifen,  ob  unser  eigener  Bei- 
trag  zu  den  geistigen  und  moralischen  Werten  Amerikas,  und 
ware  er  an  sich  noch  so  imposant,  in  einem  genijgenden  Ver- 
haltnis  zur  fiihrenden  Stellung  des  deutschen  Volkes  in  Wissen- 
schaft,  Kunst  und  Literatur  steht,  und  ob  wir  selbst  Schritt  hal- 
ten  mit  den  Kulturfortschritten  unseres  Geburtslandes ;  denn 
andernfalls  steht  uns  die  Befugnis  nicht  zu,  uns  als  die  Missionare 
einer  iiberlegenen  Bildung  zu  betrachten.  Platter,  diinkelhafter 
Widerspruch  vermag  die  eine  Tatsache  nicht  aus  der  Welt  zu 
schaffen,  dass  das  Volk  der  Dichter  und  Denker  im  neuen  Lande 
einer  arg  vergroberten  Lebensweise  huldigt;  dass  hier,  wo  der 
Erwerb  einen  unverhaltnismassigen  Raum  im  menschlichen  Ge- 


84  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

dankenkreise  einnimmt,   Knnst,  Poesie  nnd  Wissenschaft  audi 
im  Deutschtiim  eine  sehr  untergeordnete  Rolle  spielen. 

Doch  wenden  wir  tins  nach  dieser  fliichtigen  Selbstbeschau 

nun  dem  Landsgenossen  ohne  Bindestrich  zii,  den  wir  nach  meiner 

Ansicht  viel  zu  ungeniigend  kennen  nnd  mit  dem  wir  nns  weit 

besser  bekannt  machen  miissen,  weil  er  schon  durch  seine  Ueber- 

zahl  den  bestimmenden  Faktor  der  offentlichen  Meinung  ans- 

macht.    Ich  will  anch  dem  Amerikaner  keine  Komplimente  drech- 

seln.    Wenn  wir  ihn  wenig  kennen,  so  tragt  er  selbst  zum  grossen 

Teil  die  Schnld.     Fiihrt  er  doch  ein  wahres  Doppelleben,  dieser 

„Amerikaner/'    Wilhelm  von  Polenz  soil  einmal  geaussert  haben, 

der  Amerikaner  sei  der  reinlichste  Mensch  an  seiner  Person  und 

dabei  der  grosste  mnnizipale  Schweinigel.     Diese  skrupulose  per- 

sonliche  Sanl^erkeit,  die  hier  nicht  in  Frage  gezogen  werden  soil, 

und  die  unbezweifelbare  bodenlose  Lotterei  in  der  Oefifentlichkeit 

sind  wohl  symptomatisch  fiir  einen  durchgreifenden  Unterschied. 

Im   Privatleben  zeigt   sich   der  Amerikaner  als    Familienmann, 

Hauswirt,  Gesellschafter  in  ungleich  vorteilhafterem  Lichte  als 

im  Geschafts-  und  Strassenleben,  wo  er  es  anscheinend  darauf 

abgesehen    hat,     seine    allerunliebenswerteste     Seite    herauszu- 

kehren.      Wahrend     somit     in     der     Hriuslichkeit     und     Ge- 

sellschaft  ein   tadelloser,   nicht   selten   ein   wahrhaft   vornehmer 

Ton  herrscht,  so  sind  im  offentlichen  Leben  alle  erdenklichen 

Rijcksichtslosigkeiten  und  Riipeleien  an  der  Tagesordnung ;  ein 

widerlicher  Mangel  an  Lebensart  herrscht  iiberall,  wo  fremde 

Menschen  in  grosserer  Zahl  zusammenkommen,  und  emporende 

Unarten  wie  beispielsweise  das  ekelhafte  Ausspucken  auf  Biir- 

gersteigen  und  der  Strassenbahn  werden  von  den  wohlerzogen- 

sten  Menschen  widerspruchslos  geduldet,  weil  in  einem  demo- 

kratischen  Staatswesen  vermeintlich  ein  jeder  tun  und  lassen  darf 

was  ihm  beliebt  und  keine  Klasse  sich  ihre  Manieren  von  einer 

anderen  vorschreiben  zu  lassen  braucht.     Dass  bei  aller  Unge- 

schliffenheit  unser  Volksleben  auch  schone  Ziige  aufweist,  ver- 

dient  gerechtermassen  hei-vorgehoben  zu  werden.     Namentlich 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  85 

ist  die  Hochachtung  des  Amerikaners  fiir  die  Frau  und  seine  zarte 
Aufmerksamkeit  gegen  sic,  der  man  in  alien  Standen  begegnet, 
der  unverkenntliche  Ausfluss  einer  wahrhaft  ritterlichen  Gesin- 
nung.  Schade,  dass  aiich  diese  Ruhmesmedaille  ihre  Kehrseite 
hat ;  anders  gesagt,  dass  sich  der  Amerikaner  fiir  die  dem  schwa- 
cheren  Geschlecht  erwiesene  Hoflichkeit  an  seinen  mannlichen 
Mitmenschen  aufs  griindlichste  schadlos  halt  —  dass  er  die  rich- 
tige  Mittellage  zwischen  ungehoriger  Vertraulichkeit  und  einer 
an  Grobheit  streifenden  Kiirze  so  schwer  trifft.  Von  altersher 
sind  diese  Erziehungsmangel  alien  Besiichern  des  Landes  aufge- 
fallen  und  unzahligemal  an  uns  geriigt  oder  belacht  worden, 
und  doch  ist  von  einer  Besserung  der  amerikanischen  Umgangs- 
formen  nichts  zu  merken.  Sehr  wohlwollende  Beurteiler  wollen 
nun  in  alldem  nur  ein  kleines  Uebermass  einer  an  sich  nicht  hoch 
genug  zu  schatzenden  Nationaleigenschaft,  namlich  eines  iinmer- 
wahrend  regen  Unabhangigkeitssinns  erblicken.  Wer  aber  alien 
Anstandsregeln  hohnspricht,  um  seinen  ,,Freiheitssinn"  vor  der 
Welt  laut  zu  bekunden,  der  besitzt  nach  meinem  Dafiirhalten 
weder  ein  richtiges  Gefiihl  fiir  die  Rechte  seines  Nachsten,  noch 
einen  feineren  Sinn  fiir  seine  eigene  innere  Unabhangigkeit. 
Denn  diese  wahrt  man  sich  am  besten.  indem  man  in  Aeusserlich- 
keiten  der  Konvention  ihren  Zoll  entrichtet.  Je  wahrhaft  freier 
der  Mensch,  desto  weniger  Roheit  haftet  ihm  an.  Freilich  wird 
aber  der  Geist  der  Selbstbestimmung  kulturlahmend,  ja  kulturver- 
heerend  wirken,  wenn  er  nicht  durch  friihe  Disziplin  geziigelt 
wurde.  Auf  die  Erziehung  in  Haus  und  Schule  geht  das  Wohl 
und  Wehe  der  Republik  am  letzten  Ende  zuriick. 

Hat  sich  unsere  Erziehung  ihrer  hochsten  Aufgabe  ge- 
wachsen  gezeigt?  Einsichtsvolle  Schulmanner  haben  ihr  die  Un- 
fahigkeit  vorgevvorfen,  ein  Volk  mit  kraftig  ausgepragtem  Biir- 
gersinn  heranzubilden.  Mit  noch  grosserer  Berechtigung  kann 
sie  fiir  unseren  bedauernswerten  Mangel  an  offentlichem  De- 
korum  zur  Verantwortung  gezogen  werden.  In  seinem  vorhin 
erwahnten  Werke  deckt  Hugo  Miinsterberg  die  wahre  Quelle 
unserer  padagogischen  Misswirtschaft  auf.     „Wo  das  Bewusst- 


86  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

sein  der  Identitat  zwischen  politischer  Autoritat  und  Un- 
tertan  so  lebhaft  den  Einzelnen  erfiillt,  da  wird  es 
schwer  halten,  das  Gefiihl  des  Respekts  fiir  irgend  ein  Indivi- 
dtiuni  einwurzeln  zu  lassen.  Das  Gefiihl  der  Gleichheit  wird  sich 
auch  da  vordrangen,  wo  die  Natur  nicht  Gleichheit  gewollt  hat, 
vor  allem  zwischen  der  Jugend  und  dem  Alter.  Eine  gewisse 
Respektlosigkeit  wird  sich  in  der  Familie  ausbilden  und  wird 
ungestraft  bleiben,  weil  sie  oberflachlich  dem  politischen  System 
des  Landes  zu  entsprechen  scheint;  die  Eltern  werden  es  selbst 
zur  Theorie  erheben,  dass  Kinder  gebeten  und  iiberredet  werden 
miissen,  und  dass  es  falsch  sei,  sie  zu  zwingen  oder  zu  strafen, 
und  dass  die  Schule  im  selben  Geiste  vorgehen  miisse.  Und  so 
wachst  eine  Jugend  auf ,  die  niemals  die  Segnungen  eines  ausseren 
Zwanges,  einer  strafenden  Zucht  empfunden  hat."  Auch  folgende 
bedeutsame  Stelle  des  zweiten  Bandes  behandelt  das  Kapitel  von 
dem  in  Freiheit  dressierten  Jung-Amerika :  j,Heute  herrscht  als 
padagogische  Grundmaxime  eine  widersinnige  Uebertragung  des 
Gleichheitsgedankens  von  der  grossen  sozialen  Welt  in  die  Kin- 
derstube.  Es  gilt  als  ein  Dogma,  im  Grunde  jeden  Zwang  und, 
wenn  moglich,  jede  Strafe  aus  der  Erziehung  zu  beseitigen  und 
jeden  Fortschritt  und  jede  Besserung  durch  den  Appell  an  die 
Einsicht  und  den  guten  Willen  des  Kindes  zu  bewirken.  Die 
ganze  Erziehung  und  Schulung  bewegt  sich  demgemass  auf  der 
Bahn  geringsten  Widerstandes.  Das  Kind  soil  durchaus  seinen 
eigenen  Neigungen  folgen,  und  alles  das  ist  im  Grunde  nur  die 
letzte  Konsequenz  jener  Anerkennung  sozialer  Gleichheit  zwi- 
schen alien  Personlichkeiten."  Die  chauvinistische  Verblendung 
des  Amerikaners  erschwert  es  den  wenig  zahlreichen  mutvollen 
Kritikern  unseres  offentlichen  Schulwesens,  mit  ihrer  Meinung 
durchzudringen.  Ja  man  muss  sich  wundern,  wenn  trotz  der 
Aussicht,  von  der  Krippe  fortgejagt  zu  werden,  dann  und  wann 
die  Ueberzeugungstreue  eines  Fachmanns  die  gefahrliche  Kraft- 
probe  ablegt.  Tatsachlich  ist  im  Lande  der  freien  Rede  nichts 
so  verhasst  wie  freimiitige  Kritik  und  nichts  so  beliebt  und  ein- 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  87 

traglich  wie  hohle  Lobhiidelei.  Von  dem  altesten  Kultursitz  des 
Landes  ist  zweimal  im  Laufe  der  letzten  Jahre  ein  beherzigens- 
werter  Mahnriif  erklungen,  leider  ohne  einen  dauernden  Nach- 
hall  zii  wecken.  Der  hochverdiente  greise  Professor  Charles 
Eliot  Norton  schloss  vor  etwa  vier  Jahren  seine  Abschiedsrede 
an  die  Harvarder  Abiturienten  folgendermassen :  ,,So  ziehet  denn 
hinaus,  ihr  Jtinglinge,  imd  waltet  Eiires  Bertifs  im  Lande.  Dieser 
Beruf  aber  bestehe  darin,  ziir  Kiiltivierung  unseres  bildungs- 
armen,  halbzivilisierten  teuren  Vaterlandes  nach  Kraften  beizu- 
tragen."  Kurz  darauf  bekannte  sich  Prasident  Eliot  von  der 
gleichen  Universitat  kiihl  besonnen  zu  der  Ueberzeugung,  dass 
unsere  offentliche  Schule  ihrer  Aufgabe,  die  junge  Generation 
mit  den  hohen  Idealen  der  Biirgertugend  zu  erfiillen,  bisher  nicht 
gerecht  wurde.  Freilich  verschwieg  der  ausgezeichnete  Schul- 
mann,  dass  es  tim  die  hoheren  Bildungsanstalten  einschliesslich 
der  grossen  ,, Colleges"  in  gedachter  Hinsicht  nicht  besser  steht. 
Es  ware  hier  nicht  am  Platze,  auf  die  Unzulanglichkeiten  unseres 
Erziehungswesens  Punkt  fiir  Punkt  einzugehen,  ebensowenig  wie 
auf  ihre  auch  von  europaischen  Autoritaten  anerkannten  Vorziige. 
Nur  zum  geringeren  Telle,  darauf  allein  sei  hingewiesen,  fallen 
die  Schwachen  unserer  Schulerziehung  der  Lehrerschaft  zur.  Last. 
Im  wesentlichen  sind  sie  das  Erzeugnis  der  allgemeinen  Gleich- 
giiltigkeit  gegen  alles,  was  ausserhalb  der  Sphare  des  handgreif- 
lich  Nutzlichen  liegt.  Zu  seinem  eigenen  Unheil  hat  hier  der 
Laie  die  Macht,  seine  sogenannte  „praktische"  Auffassung  der 
Dinge  als  obersten  Grundsatz  dem  Lehrgang  und  Betrieb  der 
offentlichen  Schulen  aufzunotigen.  Da  es  ihm  im  Grunde  mit 
der  Bildung  nur  insoweit  heiliger  Ernst  ist  als  sich  ihre  Friichte 
ohne  unniitzen  Zeitverlust  gegen  bare  Miinze  an  den  Mann 
bringen  lassen,  so  verdriingen  die  sogenannten  Realfacher  in 
Volks-  und  Biirgerschule  immer  mehr  die  humanistischen  Dis- 
ziplinen.  Der  praktische  Standpunkt  der  niederen  und  mittleren 
Schulen  einschliesslich  der  „High  Schools'*  lasst  sich  natiirlich 
recht  wohl  verteidigen.    Wenn  es  nur  dabei  bliebe !    Aber  so  be- 


88  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

eilen  sich  die  hoheren  Lehranstalten,  also  Colleges  und  technische 
Hochschulen,  mit  charakteristischer  Unterwiirfigkeit,  auch  ihrer- 
seits  die  Befehle  der  offentlichen  Meinung  zu  vollstrecken.  Weil 
Publikus  ein  unverbcsserlicher  Erfolganbeter  ist,  so  wetteifern  die 
Universitaten  mit  einander  um  die  hochste  Frequenz.  Um  des 
grossen  Zulaufs  willen  macht  man  inbezng  aiif  Vorbildimg  und 
Studiengang  der  Horerschaft  die  weitestgehenden  Ziigestand- 
nisse.  In  den  meisten  Colleges  wird  dem  unerfahrenen  und  in 
der  Regel  nicht  allzu  ernstveranlagten  ,, Freshman"  die  Auswabl 
der  Kollegien  ganzlich  anheimgestellt  und  dadurch  seine  geistige 
Ausbildung  oft  der  Gefahr,  stiickhaft  oder  einseitig  zu  werden, 
ausgesetzt.  Auch  auserhalb  des  Horsaals  wird  dem  amerikani- 
schen  Musensohn  ein  reichstes  Mass  von  Freiheit  gewahrt.  Der 
Zauber  des  Studentenlebens  zieht  gewiss  mehr  junge  Leute  nach 
der  Hochschule  als  die  gelehrtesten  Professoren,  grossten  Biblio- 
theken  und  besten  Laboratorien.  Freilich  hat  das  amerikanisclie 
Studentenleben  nicht  das  deutsche  Geprage.  In  seinem  Mittel- 
punkt  steht  statt  Kneipe  und  Paukboden  der  athletische  Sport. 
Kein  guter  Deutscher  wird  mit  einem  einzigen  missgiinstigen 
Worte  der  Jugend  ihre  natiirliche  und  gesunde  Lust  an  frisch- 
froher  Leibesiibung  triiben  wollen.  Was  auch  ihre  Eigenart  sei, 
so  ist  ja  doch  die  amerikanische  Athletik  desselben  Geistes  Kind, 
der  in  Deutschland  die  Turnerei  geboren  hat.  Hingegen  sind  die 
Auswiichse  der  akademischen  Athletik  aufs  entschiedenste  zu 
verurteilen:  die  Roheiten,  namentlich  beim  Fussballspiel ;  die 
Kniffe  und  Finten,  welche  die  kampfenden  Parteien  gegen  ein- 
ander ausspielen;  vor  allem  der  verachtliche  Schachergeist,  der 
sich  in  die  athletischen  Korperschaften  eingeschlichen  hat  und 
sich  in  allerhand  Lug  and  Trug  und  verachtlichen  Brauchen  be- 
kundet.  Den  argsten  Uebelstand  bildet  in  unseren  Colleges  das 
Berufsathletentum.  Nach  der  Auffassung  der  Studentenschaft 
bringt  ein  schneidiger  Fussballspieler  seiner  ,,Alma  Mater"  mehr 
Ruhm  ein  als  der  tiichtigste  Professor.  Kein  Wunder,  wenn  die 
Herren  Athleten  so   sehr  von   dem   Bewusstsein  ihres   Wertes 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  89 

dtirchdrungen  sind,  dass  sie  sich  den  Atifenthalt  auf  Universita- 
ten  voii  ihren  ehrsuchtigen  Kommilitonen  teuer  bezahlen  lassen. 
Wirklich  bekommt  infolge  dieser  Ziistande  ein  ,, Coach"  oder 
,, Trainer"  fiir  seine  Leistungen  verhiiltnismassig  das  Drei-  bis 
Fiinffache  von  dem  Gehalt  eines  ordentlichen  Professors. 

Sollte  diese  Abschweifiing  ausser  Beziehung  zu  unserem 
Thema  stehen?  Nicht  doch.  Alle  zustandigen  Behorden  sehen 
ganz  gut  ein,  dass  das  Athletentum,  wie  es  jetzt  betrieben  wird, 
der  Pflege  vornehmerer  akademischer  Ideale  hindernd  im  Wege 
steht.  Allein  dem  Unfug  steuern  hiesse  sich  der  offentHchen 
Meinung  widersetzen,  und  dazu  besitzen  Kiiratorien,  FakiiUaten 
und  Prasidenten  einfach  nicht  den  Mut.  So  kommt  es,  dass  auch 
die  Pflegestatten  der  Wissenschaft  mit  dem  Strom  der  offenthchen 
Meinung  treiben,  statt,  wenn  es  not  tut,  gegen  ihn  zu  schwimmen 
und  ihm  neue  Betten  zu  bahnen  und  anzuweisen. 

Wenn  man  einer  oftgehorten  Klage  Gehor  schenken  wollte, 
so  stiinden  unsere  Fakultaten  in  einer  Art  Untertanenverhaltnis 
zu  den  iibermassig  reichen  Griindern  und  Gonnern  der  amerikani- 
schen  Privatuniversitaten.  Dies  stellt  sich  bei  unbefangener  Un- 
tersuchung  als  unwahr  heraus.  In  der  Regel  machen  diese  Man- 
ner die  Wucht  ihres  Einflusses  in  keiner  egoistischen  Weise  gel- 
tend.  An  Ausnahmen  fehlt  es  leider  nicht,  und  das  unentwickelte 
Standesbewusstsein  des  Gelehrten  suggeriert  ihm  daher  von  selbst 
einen  ,,Druck  von  oben"  und  mahnt  zur  Vorsicht.  In  Wirklich- 
keit  geht  der  Druck  von  ganz  anderer  Seite  aus  und  zwar  von  der 
grossen  Masse,  die  unter  dem  hypnotischen  Zauber  der  sogenann- 
ten  ,, Captains  of  Industry"  steht  und  deren  Urteile  gedankenlos 
ubernimmt.  Schhesshch  ist  auch  die  Auflehnung  einzehier  Gebil- 
deten  gegen  die  Verpobehuig  des  akademischen  Lebens  ziemlich 
belanglos.  Kaum  gehort  verhallt  wirkungslos  ihr  Protest,  wah- 
rend  der  vom  Glanze  seiner  MilHonen  umstrahlte  Dollarkonig 
der  beifalh'gen  Aufmerksamkeit  der  halben  Nation  gewiss  ist. 
Die  grossen  Herren  aus  diesen  Kreisen  wissen  dies  und  handeln 
danach.     Mit  einem  Stolze,  der  weissgott  einer  besseren  Sache 


90  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

wiirdig  ware,  pocheii  sie  aiif  ihre  Unbildung  oder  Halbbildung 
und  erheben  so  dreist  die  Pfuscherei  ztir  Maxime.  Die  Welt  hort 
aus  ihrem  Mtinde  die  grossten  Albernheiten  aiidachtig  an,  und  der 
Fortschritt  stellt  seine  Gangart  nach  der  Uhr  dieser  Schosskinder 
des  Gliicks.  Die  meisten  von  ihnen  predigen  das  unverbliimte 
Evangelium  des  pekuniaren  Erfolges.  Ein  Wortfiihrer  dieser 
Richtiing  begriindete  kiirzlich  mit  kostlicher  Logik  die  neue  Er- 
ziehungstheorie.  Noch  nie,  so  verkiindete  er,  boten  sich  der 
jungen  Mannerwelt  ahnliche  Gelegenheiten  zu  einer  glanzenden 
Laufbahn.  Denn,  versicherte  er,  die  grossen  ,,Korporationen" 
sehen  sich  verlangend  nach  den  tiichtigsten  Kraften  um;  das  Ge- 
halt  spielt  bei  der  Anstellung  fiir  solche  Leute  gar  keine  Rolle 
mehr.  Er  selbst  sei  zu  seinem  grossen  Bedauern  etwas  zu  fruh 
zur  Welt  gekommen,  um  fiir  seine  eigene  Person  aus  der  giinsti- 
gen  Konjunktur  Nutzen  zu  ziehen.  Mit  anderen  Worten,  es  tut 
diesem  grossen  Volkserzieher  aufrichtig  leid,  statt  3 — 4  Millionen 
jahrlich  bloss  i — 2  Millionen  einzustreichen. 

Ueber  den  Einfluss  solch  erfolggekronter  Haupter  gebe  man 
sich  keiner  falschen  Beruhigung  hin.  Jeder  Tag  bringt  neue 
Beweise,  welch  unbegrenztes  Vertrauen  Manner  vom  Schlage  des 
oben  zitierten  Dollarkonigs  im  offentlichen  Leben  geniessen.  In 
alien  wichtigen  Fragen  fiihren  sie  das  grosse  Wort.  In  den 
Synedrien  der  Politik  haben  sie  Kraft  eines  ungeschriebenen  Ge- 
setzes  Sitz  und  Stimme.  Alle  feierlichen  Anlasse  zieren  sie  mit 
ihrer  Gegenwart.  In  den  Kuratorien  der  Hochschulen  und  Bibli- 
otheken  sind  sie  in  der  Mehrheit.  Bei  ihnen  erholt  sich  der  be- 
triebsame  Zeitungsmensch  Rats  in  alien  schwierigen  Lebenslagen. 
Sie  tun  kaum  die  Lippen  auf,  so  spitzt  Publikus  das  Ohr.  Ich  bin 
uberzeugt,  wenn  Herr  J.  Pierpont  Morgan  oder  Herr  John  D. 
Rockefeller  den  tollen  Einfall  hatte,  eine  Vorlesung  iiber  die  Ver- 
wandtschaft  des  Finnischen  mit  dem  Petschenegischen  zu  halten, 
er  brauchte  in  keiner  amerikanischen  Stadt  um  den  Saal  und  die 
Zuhorer  verlegen  zu  sein. 

Vielleicht  habe  ich  den  Einfluss  der  kommerziellen  Macht- 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  91 

inhaber  atif  unsere  Erziehung  iiberschatzt.  Es  kam  mir  darauf 
an  zu  zeigen,  wie  verfehlt  es  ist,  in  einem  demokratischen  Staats- 
wesen  die  Lenkung  des  Volkswillens  einer  mit  besonderer  Macht 
ausgestatteten  Klasse  zu  iiberantvvorten.  Denn  ein  fiir  allemal 
sollte  man  sich  des  Wahnes  entschlagen,  als  sei  die  offentliche  Mei- 
nung  nur  die  Summe  oder  Potenz  aller  individuellen  Meinungen 
im  Lande,  in  anderem  Bilde  die  Resiiltierende  aller  Willenskrafte. 
Dies  ist  darum  nicht  der  Fall,  weil  jeweilig  ein  betrachtlicher  Teil 
der  nationalen  Willensenergie  lahmgelegt  ist  oder  aus  freien 
Stiicken  gebunden  bleibt.  Das  naive  Bewusstsein  der  Masse 
kommt  nirgends  rein  zum  Ausdruck.  Bald  farbt  dieses,  bald 
jenes  Element  in  ihr  am  starksten  ab.  Daher  ist  es  im  hochstei'. 
Grade  wiinschenswert,  dass  die  moralisch  Tiichtigsten  und  geistig 
Entwickeltsten  sich  an  der  Erzeugung  des  Volksgewissens  am 
kraftigsten  beteiligen.  Die  Gebildetsten  kommen  hierzulande  zu 
wenig  zu  Worte.  Der  Lehrerstand  zumal  halt  wie  schon  ange- 
deutet  mit  seinen  wahren  Ansichten  zu  gern  hinter  dem  Berge. 
Dafiir  reden  Prediger  und  Juristen  zvvar  reichlich,  aber  sie  be- 
schranken  sich  meistens  auf  die  Breittretung  gefahrloser  Selbst- 
verstandlichkeiten. 

Noch  auf  einen  weiteren  bedenklichen  Umstand  sei  hinge- 
wiesen.  Es  ist  nicht  abzustreiten,  dass  zur  Losung  sittlicher  Fra- 
gen  ganz  einfacher  Art  die  Unterscheidungskraft  der  sogenannten 
offentlichen  Meinung  hinreicht.  Nichtsdestoweniger  tritt  selbst 
beziiglich  solcher  Fragen  gleich  eine  Teilung  in  der  offentlichen 
Meinung  ein,  sobald  sie  aus  der  platonischen  Sphare  in  die  prak- 
tische  hiniiber  und  an  ein  leibhaftes,  greifbares  Thema  heran- 
treten.  In  Amerika  erfolgt  diese  Spaltung  (wie  anderwarts)  ge- 
meinhin  nach  Massgabe  einer  schon  bestehenden  Parteiung.  Nur 
unterscheidet  sich  unser  Parteiwesen,  namentlich  im  politischen 
Leben,  durch  seine  dualistische  Organisation.  Der  Ame- 
rikaner  ist  kein  Freund  der  feineren  Schattierung,  der 
„pers6nlichen  Note."  Er  fallt  seine  Entscheidung  am  liebsten 
nach  dem  altbewahrten  Schema:  entweder  —  oder.     Gut  und 


92  Patriotische  Beirachtungen 

schlecht,  dazwisclien  erkennt  er  keine  Ntiancen.  Zudem  kostet  es 
ilin  keine  grosse  Ueberwindung,  deni  wirklichen  oder  vermeint- 
lichen  Parteiwohl  die  eigene  Meinimg  unterzuordnen,  weil  er  in 
politischer  Hinsicht  besser  geschult  ist  als  der  Mitteleuropaer, 
teils  aber  anch  weil  er  seine  geistigen  Rechte  weniger  hochhalt 
als  jener.  Um  seines  Gewissens  willen  sich  klipp  iind  klar  ziir 
Gegenpartei  zu  schlagen  bedeutet  fiir  den  Politiker  den  Verlust 
alien  Einflnsses.  Selbst  in  einem  einzigen  Punkte  sich  gegen  die 
Partei  aufzulehnen  stempelt  den  Parteimann  zum  „Mngwiimp" 
iind  zieht  politische  Entwurzelimg  nach  sich.  In  vielen  Fallen 
bleibt  man  ein  Republikaner  oder  Demokrat  ohne  innere  Griinde, 
aus  blossem  Familiensinn,  weil  der  Vater  und  der  Grossvater 
aiich  schon  zu  der  ,, Grand  Old  Party"  gehort  haben.  So  bewahr- 
heitet  sich  das  Goethe'sche  Wort : 

Vernunft  wird  Unsinn,  Wohltat  Plage.  — 
Weh  dir,  dass  du  ein  Enkel  bist. 

Die  mogliche  Erleuchtung  der  offentlichen  Meinung  durch 
eine  die  Parteipolitik  an  Geist  und  Biirgertugend  hoch  iiber- 
ragende  Personlichkeit,  wie  sie  uns  durch  einen  seltenen  Gliicks- 
fall  in  Karl  Schurz  beschieden  war,  bricht  sich  an  dem  starren 
Fanatismus  des  politischen  Lebens.  Nur  von  den  Zinnen  der 
Partei  herab  soil  das  Licht  in  die  Masse  dringen. 

Die  gleiche  graue  Eintonigkeit  bedeckt  alle  Felder  der  gei- 
stigen Tatigkeit.  Welches  Land  der  Kulturwelt  hat  eine  so  farb- 
lose  Literatur  wie  das  freie,  selbstbestimmte  Amerika?  Wo  wird 
noch  infolge  der  Unduldsamkeit  gegen  Originalitat  solch  ein 
Gotzendienst  mit  Gemeinplatzen  getrieben?  Wo  werden  mittel- 
massige  Talentchen  so  oft  als  Genies  bejubelt?  In  einem  Wort: 
Wo  herrscht  ein  annahernd  gleicher  Notstand  an  scharf  profi- 
lierten  Personlichkeiten  ? 

Fasse  ich  meine  Betrachtungen  zusammen,  so  erscheint  mir 
die  sogenannte  offentliche  Meinung  als  das  gemeinsame  Fabrikat 
des  tausendkopfigen  Durchschnittsmenschen  und  des  geriebenen 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  93 

Machers,  die  vereiiit  den  Widerstand  der  iinabhangigen  Intelli- 
genzen  besiegen  oder  ihn  mit  Leichtigkeit  neutralisieren.  Waren 
es  etwa  die  Gebildetsten  vind  Besten  oder  waren  es  im  Gegenteil 
die  empfindsamen  Banaiisen  und  die  schlauen  Tri^ibfischer,  die  den 
Krieg  mit  Spanien  heraufbeschworen?  Die  gleich  darauf  die 
Vereinigten  Staaten  in  ein  ebenso  nutzloses  wie  gefahrenschwan- 
geres  Kolonialabenteuer  stiirzten  ? 

Es  soil  nicht  gelengnet  werden,  dass  die  offentliche  Meinung 
sich  manches  gnten  Gedankens  bemachtigt,  manche  niitzliche  Re- 
form ausfiihrt,  nnd  alle  Jubeljahr  einmal  nnter  dem  Antrieb 
wohlverdienter  Gewissensbisse  eine  erlosende  Tat  vollbringt  — 
beispielsweise  die  Sklavenbefreiung.  Ueberhaupt  ist  der  Idealis- 
mus  des  Amerikaners  gar  nicht  schwer  zu  weaken ;  niir  wird  er  zu 
leicht  das  Opfer  nervoser  Ueberreizung.  Alsdann  verf alien  wir 
unserer  schlimmsten  Volkskrankheit,  der  Hysterie,  gegen  deren 
Ausschreitungen  das  Wort  der  Weisen,  das  Rechtsgefiihl  der 
Nation,  ja  unter  Umstanden  sogar  die  vom  Volke  selbst  einge- 
setzte  Autoritat  sich  machtlos  erweist. 

Zur  Verdeiitlichung  des  Vorstehenden  diene  der  schmach- 
vollste  Auswuchs  des  amerikanischen  Volkslebens.  Ich  meine 
natiirlich  die  Lynch justiz,  die,  statt  vor  der  wachsenden  Kultur 
allmahlich  zuriickzuweichen,  gerade  wahrend  der  letzten  Jahre 
unerhorte  Orgien  gefeiert  hat.  Denn  bekanntlich  begniigt  sich 
heute  die  ausschweifende  Volkswut  nicht  mehr,  ihr  ausersehenes 
Opfer  ,,with  promptness  and  dispatch"  ins  Jenseits  zu  expedieren  : 
nein,  unsagbare,  raffiniert  grausame  Scheusslichkeiten  begleiten 
diese  Mordsuchtsanfalle  eines  gemiitsrohen  Pobels.  Und,  was 
das  Schlimmste  an  der  Sache,  die  Jnrisdiktion  des  Richters  Lynch 
masst  sich  schon  eine  tiber  den  ,,schwarzen  Giirtel"  hinausffehende 
Kompetenzsphare  an.  Wo  ist  nun  der  Ursprung  dieser  schimpf- 
Hchen  und  anscheinend  unheilbaren  Verirrung  des  Massenin- 
stinkts  zu  suchen?  Doch  gewiss  in  der  geistig  und  moralisch 
am  tiefsten  stehenden  Schichte  menschlicher  Gesellschaft.  Von 
hier  aus  dringt  bei  dem  freien  Spiel  der  Krafte  die  Ansteckung 
von  unten  nach  oben. 


94  Patriotischc  Bctrachtungcn 

Noch  ein  weiteres  Beispiel  sei  angefiihrt.  In  mehreren  der 
Siidstaaten  besteht  der  ehrsame  Branch,  dass  der  Vater  oder 
Brtider  eines  verfiihrten  Madchens  den  Verfiihrer  mit  der  Mord- 
waffe  iiberrnmpelt  nnd  ohne  Federlesens  iiber  den  Hanfen 
schiesst,  welcher  einfache  Vorgang  dann  gewolmlich  in  den  Zei- 
tnngen  als  ein  ,,Dneir'  geschildert  wird.  Zwar  schiitzt  den  Tod- 
schlager  der  ,, Genius  loci"  nicht  vor  strafgerichtlicher  Verfol- 
gnng.  Aber  es  ist  noch  nie  vorgekommen,  dass  fiir  solch  ruchlose 
Gewalttat  einem  Menschen  ein  Harchen  gekriimmt  worden  ware. 

So  will  es  die  offentliche  Meinung,  nnd  ein  hochangesehener 
Richter  ans  dem  Siiden  erklarte  mir  vor  nicht  langer  Zeit,  der 
Usus  habe  seine  nnd  vieler  seiner  Kollegene  riickhaltlose  Billi- 
gung.  Das  Erstannliche  an  der  Sache  ist  m.  E.  nicht  die  Ueber- 
nahme  des  Racheramts  durch  private  Hande,  denn  beleidigte 
Familienehre  fiihrt  anch  anderswo,  nnd  gerade  in  Dentschland 
mit  am  hanfigsten,  znr  anssergerichtlichen  Ziichtigung  des  Schul- 
dieen.  Stannenswert  nnd  beschamend  ist  vielmehr  die  als  selbst- 
verstandlich  hingenommene  Beiseitesetznng  des  Gesetzes,  die 
Herabwiirdigung  seiner  Hoheit  durch  ein  possenmassiges  Schein- 
verfahren  und  die  Konnivenz  der  Richter. 

Solche  Erscheinungen  sind  geeignet,  auch  den  unentweg- 
testen  Optimisten  nachdenklich  zu  stimmen. 

Viel  ofter  noch  finden  wir  die  offentliche  Meinung  zwar 
nicht,  wie  in  den  angefiihrten  Fallen,  im  offenen  Bunde  mit  ver- 
werflichen  Tendenzen,  aber,  was  am  Ende  nicht  gar  viel  besser, 
sie  stellt  sich  abseits  und  betrachtet  die  grobsten  Ausschreitungen 
privater  und  solidarischer  Willkiir  mit  einer  Gemiitsruhe,  fiir 
welche  leider  nichts  anderes  als  eine  verhartete  dleichgiiltigkeit 
als  zureichende  Erklarung  dienen  kann.  Es  fallen  jahraus,  jahr- 
ein  Menschenopfer  unerhort,  bloss  weil  die  offentliche  Meinung 
beide  Augen  zudriickt  gegen  die  beispiellose  Fahrlassigkeit  im 
Verkehrswesen,  sowie  gegen  die  verbrecherische  Unvorsichtigkeit 
bei  der  Erbauung  und  dem  Betrieb  von  Theatern  und  anderwei- 
tigen  Unterhaltungslokalen.     Bei  jedcr  schlimmen  Katastrophe 


Patriotischc  Bctrachtungen  95 

legt  der  Amerikaner  einen  nicht  genng  zu  riihrnenden  Opfersinn, 
einen  iiber  jeden  Zweifel  eiiiabenen  Heldenmnt  an  den  Tag. 
Werden  aber  die  Dinge  besser?  Allerdings,  gehen  auf  einer 
Eisenbahn  statt  der  statistiscb  vorgeschriebenen  Rate  von  zwei 
bis  drei  Personen  im  Tage  gleicb  ein  paar  Diitzend  auf  einmal 
elendigbch  zugriinde,  oder  fordert  die  Habgier  eines  Bauspeku- 
lanten,  Theaterbesitzers,  Schiffseigentiimers  ein  Massenopfer 
an  Menschenleben,  so  kommt  iinter  dem  geburtshilflichen 
Beistand  der  Sensationspresse  die  offentliche  Meinimg  plotzlich 
in  die  Wochen.  Docb  eine  Fehlgeburt  ist  das  jedesmalige  Er- 
gebnis.  Man  beruhigt  sich,  und  alles  bleibt  beim  alten.  Ueber- 
hanpt  ist  es  merkwiirdig,  wie  oft  im  privilegierten  Lande  des 
Fortschritts  der  alte  Scblendrian  das  Marschtempo  trommelt. 
Gegen  die  Macht  der  toten  Gewohnheit  erhebt  sich  nicht  leicht 
ein  erfolgreicher  Widersprnch.  Man  denke  einmal  an  die  Heka- 
tomben  bliihender  Menschenleiber,  die  hier  alljahrhch  am  vierten 
Juh,  dem  eigenthchen  Nationalfeiertag,  dem  grausen  Moloch 
Tradition  in  den  Rachen  geworfen  werden.  Der  Tag  verdiente 
wahrhaftig  im  Kalendar  schwarz  statt  rot  angestrichen  zu  wer- 
den. Sein  Verlauf  erinnert  in  manchen  Gegenden  beinahe  an  den 
bethlehemitischen  Kindermord.  Wie  verhalt  sich  die  offentHche 
Meinung  gegen  den  grauHchen  Unfug?  Statt  etwas  zu  seiner 
Abstellung  zu  tun,  kauft  sie  den  Heben  Kleinen  das  Feuerwerk 
und  sonstige  Werkzeug  zur  Selbstverstiimmelung.  Abermals  ein 
deutHches  Zeichen,  wie  die  Dummheit  iiber  den  Verstand  trium- 
phiert.  Denn  welcher  verniinftige  Mensch  verurteilt  nicht  den 
sinnlos  morderischen  Radau?  Wer  beklagt  darin  nicht  die  to- 
richte  Verkehrung  und  Verhohnung  wahrer  Vaterlandsliebe  ? 
Und  besteht  nicht  trotz  alledem  der  „GIorious  Fourth"  in  seinem 
unverfalschten  Vandahsmus  weiter? 

Vollends  in  unserem  korrupten  Staats-  und  Stiidtewesen 
kommt  die  Langmut  oder  Faulheit  —  wie  man's  eben  nennen  will 
—  der  offentlichen  Meinung  zu  unverkennbarem  Ausdruck.  Wah- 
rend  die  Volksvertretung  mit  drakonischen  Gesetzen  gegen  das 


96  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

siindhafte  Sonntagsbier  iind  den  physischcn  und  moralischen 
Pesthaiich  der  Zigarctte  sich  und  das  ganze  Land  vor  der  iibrigen 
zivilisierten  Welt  blamiert,  diirfen  die  offensichtlichsten  Schaden 
sich  tiefer  und  immer  tiefer  in  unser  Volksleben  hineinfressen. 
Wie  gross  die  offentliche  Apathie,  zeige  wieder  ein  konkretes 
Beispiel.  Ein  Patriot  von  echtem  Schrot  und  Korn  verteidigt 
auf  arg  exponiertem  Posten  die  Ehre  seiner  Stadt  gegen  eine 
ruchlose  Rotte  politischer  Brandschatzer.  Aber  nur  ein  unansehn- 
liches  Fahnlein  schart  sich  um  den  Braven.  Warum  erhebt  denn 
die  vox  popnh  nicht  ihr  chernes  Kriegsgeschrei  ?  TatsachHch 
schaut  der  grosse  Haufe  der  sogenannten  Anstandsmenschen 
mit  verbliiffender  Gleichgiiltigkeit  dem  ungleichen  Kampfe  zu. 

"Ich  habe  mit  mehreren  Ihrer  angesehensten  Mitbiirger  das 
Thema  angeschlagen,  aber  wenig  Anklang  gefunden,"  so  sagte 
zu  mir  ein  bekannter  Soziologe,  ,,ja,  ich  fand  sogar  zu  meiner 
hellen  Verwunderung,  dass  manche  Leute  die  ganze  Geschichte 
lachenswert  finden  und  sich  nicht  entbloden,  dumme  Witze  dar- 
iiber  zu  reissen."  WirkHch  bekundet  sich  in  solch  ekelerregender 
Weise  nur  allzuoft  der  gepriesene  amerikanische  Humor,  der  oft 
nichts  weiter  ist  als  der  bequemste  Abfluss  einer  seichten  Lebens- 
auffassung. 

Und  nun  zu  dem  treucn  Spiegelbild  der  offenthchen  Mei- 
nung.  Es  gibt  selbstverstandhch  bei  uns  eine  Reihe  von  durch- 
aus  anstandigen  und  mit  vornehmem  Hterarischem  Sinn  geleiteten 
Blattern.  Wenn  sie  sich  nur  beziiglich  ihrer  Zahl  und  ihres  Um- 
satzes  mit  den  Zeitungen  gegensatzlicher  Richtung  messen  konn- 
ten,  der  beriichtigten  ,,gclben  Presse",  die  mit  geflissenthcher 
Preisgebung  jeglichen  lioheren  Berufes  den  gemeinsten  Instinkten 
des  Lesepobels  den  Hof  macht.  Zur  Erklarung  und  Entschuldi- 
gung  dieses  unheilvollen  Missgewachses  wird  von  amerikanischer 
Seite  verschiedenthch  ein  Scheingrund  angefiihrt,  den  auch  Pro- 
fessor Miinsterberg  geltend  macht.  Er  versichert  namHch,  nicht 
weil  in  Deutschland  die  Masse  gebildeter  sei  und  Besseres  ver- 
lange,  sondern  weil  sie  weniger  lesebegierig  sei,  konne  auf  deut- 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  97 

schem  Boden  die  gelbe  Presse  nicht  fortkommen.  Dieser  Be- 
hauptung  gegeniiber  liesse  sich  jedoch  nachweisen,  dass  audi  in 
Deiitschland  Blatter  mit  enormen  Auflagen  bliihen  und  mit  weit 
grosserer  Fiille  und  Mannigfaltigkeit  des  Inhalts;  dass  aber  die 
deutsche  Zeitung  auf  einem  unvergleichlich  hoheren  moralischen 
und  schriftstellerischen  Niveau  steht  als  die  amerikanische.  Die 
Mehrzahl  der  amerikanischen  Journalisten  ist  unglaublich 
schwach  im  Berufsernst.  Wer  am  geschicktesten  zu  lavieren 
versteht,  kommt  am  besten  vorwarts.  Wer  fragt  nach  des  Zei- 
tungsmanns  ureigener  Ueberzeugung  ?  Wer  stosst  sich  daran, 
wenn  infolge  Verkaufs  seiner  Zeitung  der  federgewandte  Leit- 
artikelverfertiger  nach  dem  Grundsatz  „Wes  Brod  ich  esse,  des 
Lied  ich  singe"  von  heut'  auf  morgen  eine  funkelnagelneue  Ge- 
sinnung  anzieht?  Oder  wenn  wahrend  einer  erregten  Wahl- 
kampagne  in  einer  und  derselben  Werkstatte  fiir  beide  Lager 
Waffen  geschyiiedet  werden?  Zur  Leichtfertigkeit  der  redakti- 
onellen  Aeusserung  gesellt  sich  ein  zweiter  Uebelstand :  die  Zen- 
sur.  Jawohl,  wir  haben  alien  Ernstes  eine  Zeitungszensur  und 
noch  dazu  die  strengste  und  willkiirlichste  die  man  sich  denken 
kann.  Ja  sogar  eine  doppelte.  Will  eine  Zeitung  reussieren,  so 
muss  sie  sich  als  Organ  der  Oeffentlichkeit  in  keinem  Punkte  der 
jeweiligen  Stromung  widersetzen.  Sie  muss  ihren  Spalten 
mit  angstlicher  Vorsicht  alles  fernhalten,  was  mit  der  Begriffs- 
und  Vorstellungswelt  des  grossen  Publikums  an  irgend  einer 
Stelle  zusammenprallen  konnte  oder  was  iiber  diesen  beschrankten 
Umkreis  hinausgeht.  Bodenlose  Banalitat  ist  die  Folge.  Nun  er- 
heben  aber  neben  den  Anforderungen  der  Leser  auch  die  Inte- 
ressen  eines  besonderen  Gonnerkreises  ihre  geheiligten  An- 
spriiche :  die  der  Inserenten,  von  denen  die  materielle  Wohlfahrt 
des  Blattes  am  meisten  abhangt.  Hiervon  ist  die  Folge,  dass 
drunten  im  Kontor  statt  droben  auf  der  Redaktionsstube  das 
letzte  Wort  iiber  den  Zulass  jeder  Zeile,  jedes  Wortchens  fallt. 
Es  ist  meines  Wissens  schon  vorgekommen,  dass  bei  einer  aus- 
brechenden  Epidemic  die  tagliche  Bekanntmachung  der  Erkran- 
kungen  auf  Vorstellungen  eines  Konsortiums  von  grossen  In- 


98  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

serenten  liin  plotzlicli  iintcrblieb.  Man  stand  gerade  vor  der 
Wahrscheinlichkeit  eines  rcgen  Fremdenverkehrs,  iind  die  Furcht 
vor  flanem  Geschaftsgang  iiberwog  in  jenem  Kreise  die  Angst 
vor  der  Seuche. 

In  deni  literarischen  Wert  der  amerikanischen  Presse  liegt 
das  Geheimnis  ihrer  Erfolge  erst  recht  nicht.  Der  ,,Arizonastir' 
des  dentschen  Witzblattes  entbalt  bei  aller  Uebertreibiing  eine  zu- 
treffende  Charakteristik  des  landlaiifigen  Zeitiingsstils. 

Wenn  sich  sonach  die  amerikanische  Zeitung  aus  eigen- 
niitzigeh  Motiven  ihrer  Stellung  als  Volkserzieherin  freiwillig 
begibt,  wenn  sie  ferner  aiich  in  formalem  Sinne  minderwertig 
ist,  so  muss,  sollte  man  meinen,  ihre  oftgeriihmte  Ueberlegenheit 
sich  auf  die  VoUkommenheit  des  Nachrichtendienstes  und  der  Be- 
richterstattung  zuriickfiihren  lassen.  Wahr,  biindig  und  gefalhg, 
das  sind  die  sicheren  Kennzeichen  guter  Reporterarbeit.  In  alien 
drei  Punkten  lasst  der  deutsche  KoUege  den  Amerikaner  weit 
hinter  sich. 

Man  vergleiche  einmal  das  Personal  einer  deutschen  oder 
deutschamerikanischen  Zeitung  mit  dem  eines  englisch-amerikani- 
schen  Riesenblattes.  Sehr  selten  ist  der  amerikanische  Reporter 
den  Anforderungen  einer  grosseren  journalistischen  Aufgabe  ge- 
wachsen.  So  wurde  z.  B.  der  enorme  Stoff,  den  die  St.  Louiser 
Weltausstellung  den  Zeitungen  bot,  nur  von  deutschen  Zeitungen, 
hiesigen  und  iiberseeischen,  mit  einer  des  Gegenstandes  annahernd 
wiirdigen  Griindlichkeit,  ja  auch  nur  mit  dem  gebiihrenden  Ernst 
aufgearbeitet.  In  englischer  Sprache  ist  im  allgemeinen  das 
schalste  Gewasch,^  mitunter  auch  trostloser  Stumpfsinn  iiber  die 
Weltausstellung  verbreitet  worden.  So  steht  es  eben  mit  der 
amerikanischen  Zeitungsschreiberei,  und  es  wird  und  kann  nicht 
besser  werden  bis  sich  die  Einsicht  Bahn  gebrochen  hat,  dass  zum 
Journalistenberuf  ausser  dem  unentbehrlichen  „Wuppdich"  und 
der  obligaten  fabelmassigen  Geschvvindigkeit  audi  ein  bisschen 
Sinn  fiir  Verantwortlichkeit  und  —  ein  paar  Quentchen  Schul- 
bildung  gehoren.  Eine  Reform  des  Zeitungswesens  w'6.Ye  von  der 
wohltatigsten  Wirkung  und  der  grossten  Tragweite.    Denn  jedem 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  99 

Denkenden  leuchtet  ein,  class  ohne  die  Mitarbeit  der  Presse  eine 
dauernde  Gesundung-  der  offentlichen  Meinung  nicht  herbeizu- 
fiihren  ist.  Es  ist  purer  Unsinn,  die  Macht  der  Presse  in  Abrade 
zn  stellen.  Audi  diejenigen  haben  unrecht,  die  da  g-lauben,  die 
Schadlichkeit  des  Sensationsblattes  werde  durch  seine  in  die 
Aiigen  springende  Verlogenheit  aiifgehoben.  Leider  besitzt  unser 
Publikum  nicht  mir  eine  unersattliche  Neugier,  sondern  es  ist  zu- 
gleich  leichtglanbig  bis  zur  Bewnsstlosigkeit.  Es  ist  ein  psycho- 
logisches  Ratsel,  wie  man  tagtaglich  die  Zeitungskost  zu  sich 
nehmen  kann  ohne  zu  merken,  dass  man  verfalschte  Nahrung  ge- 
niesst.  Tag  fiir  Tag  liefert  dem  Amerikaner  sein  Leibblatt  die 
starksten  Proben  von  Unzuverlassigkeit,  wie  z.  B.  wenn  er  iiber 
Vorkommnisse  liest,  bei  denen  er  zugegen  war,  und  es  ist  an  dem 
ganzen  Bericht  kein  Sterbenswortchen  wahr.  Er  tut  zwar  ge- 
wohnhch,  als  sei  er  ausserst  misstrauisch  gegen  das  gedruckte 
Wort  und  als  verlasse  er  sich  in  alien  Dingen  auf  seinen  eigenen 
Verstand,  aber  das  ist  zum  grossen  Telle  eine  Selbsttauschung. 
Unter  der  Schwelle  des  Bewusstseins  wird  selbst  der  vorsichtigste 
Leser  von  der  Lektiire  beeinflusst.  Die  Speise  aber,  die  ihm  aus 
der  journalistischen  Sudelkiiche  gereicht  wird,  wird  nach  und  nach 
vermittels  eines  unaufhaltsamen  Stoffwechsels  in  ,,offentliche 
Meinung"  umgesetzt. 

Zu  der  oben  getadelten  Langmut  der  Masse  stimmt  ganz  und 
gar  die  laue  Duldsamkeit  der  Presse.  Hochauf  lodert  dann  und 
wann  ihre  ,,saeva  indignatio"  iiber  diesen  oder  jenen  Uebelstand ; 
doch  die  Entriistung  ist  von  kurzer  Dauer.  Auch  richtet  sich  der 
Angriff  allemal  gegen  vereinzelte  Krankheitssymptome  statt  bis 
zum  Herd  der  Entartung  vorzudringen.  So  halite  vor  kurzem  der 
ganze  dichte  Blatterwald  von  dem  lauten  Zetergeschrei  wider,  das 
sich  gegen  die  strafwiirdige  Missverwaltung  gewisser  Versiche- 
runsfssfesellschaften  erhob.  Weshalb  hatte  denn  der  Gemein- 
sinn  unserer  Presse  nicht  schon  langst  dem  schmutzigen  Treiben 
jener  Magnaten  einige  Aufmerksamkeit  geschenkt?  Weshalb 
blieben  ihre  Argusaugen  fi.iir  das  verdachtige  Gebahren  blind, 
bis  ihnen  Tom  Lawson,  der  edle  Ritter,  die  Erleuchtung  brachte  ? 


lOO  Patriotischc  Bctrachtungen 

Und  hatte  nicht  die  Presse  die  Pflicht,  bei  dieser  Gelegen- 
heit  zu  iintersnchen,  ob  nicht  audi  ausserhalb  des  Versicherungs- 
wcsens  im  Geschaftsleben  Missbrauche  bestehen,  denen  zum  Vor- 
teil  unseres  internationalen  Rtifes  gesteuert  werden  sollte?  Frei- 
Hch  findet  der  Tief stand  des  Zeitungswesens  seine  Erklarung  und 
eine  Art  traurige  Entschuldigung  in  den  vordersten  Tendenzen 
der  Gegenvvart.  Am  Ende  hat  ja  in  der  Tat  jedes  Volk  die 
Presse,  die  es  will,  d.  h.  die  Presse,  die  es  verdient. 

Nun  sprechen  aber  die  Anzeichen  unwiderleglich,  dass  in 
unserer  Volksmoral  in  neuerer  Zeit  bedenkliche  Verschiebungen 
stattgefunden  haben,  dass  die  strengen  Tugenden  der  Vater  den 
bequemeren  und  eintraglicheren  Maximen  eines  neuen  Geschlechts 
den  Vorrang  iiberlassen. 

In  der  bedauernswerten  Umwertung  jener  alten  moralischen 
Werte  spielt  wohl  die  jetzige  Machtstellung  der  Vereinigten 
Staaten  die  wesentlichste  Rolle.  Seit  den  blendenden  ausseren 
Erfolgen  der  neuen  Politik  in  Krieg  und  Frieden  schwelgen  wir 
in  kindischer  Selbstbewunderung.  Und  wahrend  weise  Ratgeber 
wie  Grover  Cleveland  und  der  nun  leider  dahingegangene  Karl 
Schurz  mit  der  vollen  Wucht  ihrer  Ueberzeugung  die  Blicke  des 
Volkes  auf  seine  Mangel  lenken  und  mit  mannhafter  Stimme 
unser  nationales  Gewissen  an  die  nachstliegenden  Aufgaben  er- 
innern,  speisen  und  kitzeln  die  Steuermanner  des  neuen  Kurses 
die  Selbstzufriedenheit  und  Selbstiiberhebung  Jung-Amerikas. 

Als  Beleg  dienen  ein  paar  Stellen  aus  der  Rede  des  Herrn 
Elihu  Root  auf  dem  grossen  Chicagoer  Parteitag  ( 1904)  :  ,,From 
all  our  great  population  active  in  production  and  commerce  and 
social  progress  and  intellectual  and  moral  life  to  a  degree  never 
before  attained  by  any  people  .  .  .  History  affords  no  parallel 
in  any  age  or  country  for  the  growth  in  natural  greatness  and 
power  and  honor,  etc " 

Dies  hochtrabende  Lob  selbst  seitens  der  einsichtsvollsten 
Parteifiihrer  tout  zwar  entschieden  besser  als  es  —  riecht,  aber 
noch  viel  besser  kliinge  es  in  fremdem  Munde.     Derlei  Posaunen- 


Patriotische  Betrachtungen  loi 

stosse  von  hoher  Warte  befestigen  uns  in  dem  gefahrlichen  Glau- 
ben  an  unsere  eigene  Vollkommenheit  und  erschweren  dadurch 
die  Selbstdisziplin,  deren  wir  so  sehr  bediirfen.  Von  dem  Werte 
unserer  bisherigen  Errungenschaften,  die  ich  wahrhaftig  nicht 
gering  veranschlagen  mochte,  sind  wir  ohnehin  zur  Geniige 
durchdrungen.  Drum  soil  auch  die  patriotische  Kritik  zu  Worte 
kommen. 

Weil  ich  mich  in  diesen  Betrachtungen  von  dem  soeben 
aufgestellten  Grundsatze  leiten  liess,  durfte  ich  mein  Augenmerk 
vornehmlich  auf  die  wunden  Punkte  in  unserem  offentlichen  Le- 
ben  richten,  ohne  mir,  so  hoffe  ich,  durch  meine  Offenheit  den 
Vorwurf  der  Norgelei  zuzuziehen.  Es  gibt,  das  weiss  ich  genau, 
in  gewissen  Kreisen  eine  summarische  Art  von  Gegenkritik.  Man 
diinkt  sich  unwiderleglich,  wenn  man  dem  Kritiker  mit  dem  Rat 
aufwartet :  „Wenn  es  Ihnen  bei  uns  nicht  gefallt,  so  packen  Sie 
nur  schleunigst  Ihren  Koffer  und  viel  Gliick  auf  den  Weg !"  Ein 
wahrer  Patriot  wird  sich  durch  derartige  Albernheiten  in  seiner 
redlichen  Arbeit  nicht  storen  lassen.  Es  ist  eine  zwar  weniger 
dankbare,  aber  um  desto  dankenswertere  Aufgabe,  mutig  an  der 
Veredelung  des  Vaterlands  zu  arbeiten  als  aus  seinem  moralischen 
Niedergang  materiellen  Nutzen  zu  ziehen  und  entweder  aus 
diesem  Grunde  oder  aus  stumpfer  Unwissenheit  zu  allem,  was 
unter  dem  rotweissblauen  Aushangeschild  gesagt  und  getan  wird, 
Ja  und  Amen  zu  sagen  und  Hurra !  zu  schreien. 

Deshalb  aber  haben  wir,  die  wir  uns  Amerikaner  nennen,  weil 
wir  auf  dieser  Erde  unsere  Heimat  dauernd  aufgeschlagen  haben, 
nur  dann  das  Recht,  auf  die  Unvollkommenheiten  der  anierikani- 
schen  Zivilisation  tadelnd  hinzuweisen,  wenn  wir  uns  im  Dienste 
des  neuen  Vaterlands  unablassig  strebend  bemiihen.  Lebt  der 
Deutsche  dieser  hochsten  Verpflichtung  nach,  so  wird  sich  ihm 
hierzulande  ein  reicher  Quell  geistiger  Freuden  erschliessen. 
Amerikaner  sein  heisst  —  unter  anderem  —  unfertig  sein,  und 
in  dem  Schosse  unabgeschlossener  Zustande  ruht  eine  unermess- 
liche  charakterbildende  Macht.  „Die  Wirklichkeit",  sagt  Miin- 
sterberg,  „ist  zunachst  eine  sittliche  Aufgabe,  und  gerade  weil 


102  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

die  Welt  unvollendet,  hart,  unschon  ist  und  iiberall  umgestaltende 
Arbeit  verlangt,  gerade  deshalb  ist  sie  unerschopflich  wertvoll : 
das  ist  der  Grtindton  nnd  wird  es  bleiben,  solange  die  neue  Welt 
iliren  Idealen  treu  bleibt." 

Dem  Deutschen  ist  seine  spezifische  Beteiligung  an  dem  Auf- 
bau  Oder  Umbau  amerikanischer  Kultur  klar  und  deiitlich  vorge- 
zeichnet.  Er  zielt  nicht  auf  die  Erbauimg  eines  Staates  im  Staate, 
noch  wird  er  sich  anderseits  damit  begniigen  wollen,  mechanisch 
als  Karrner  die  Steinchen  herbeiziischleppen,  auf  dass  sie  die  Bau- 
herren  und  Werkmeister  der  neuen  Kultur  als  blosses  Fiillsel  zwi- 
schen  den  grossen  Bausteinen  verwerten.  Legen  wir  daher  auf 
unsere  deutschen  Sonderinteressen  nur  insofern  Gewicht  als  dies 
die  Zukunft  des  ganzen,  nach  Vollendung  seines  Charakters  rin- 
genden  Amerikanervolks  von  uns  heischt. 

Ist  meine  Darstellung  der  gegenwartigen  Zustande  nicht  von 
Grunde  aus  verkehrt,  so  folgt  mit  logischer  Konsequenz :  die  Re- 
publik  bedarf  heute  mehr  als  je  des  deutschen  Idealisten. 

Jeder  denkende  Beobachter  sieht  ein,  dass  die  Entwickelung 
Amerikas  an  ihrem  schicksalsschweren  Scheidewege  angelangt  ist. 
Sie  gipfelte  in  einer  noch  nicht  verflossenen  Periode  beispiellosen 
Wohlstands.  Mitten  in  einer  Epoche  des  grossartigsten  industri- 
ellen  Aufschwungs  traten  die  Vereinigten  Staaten  aus  der  von 
George  Washington  in  seiner  Abschiedsrede  empfohlenen  volker- 
politischen  Reserve  heraus  und  erhoben  sich  mit  elementarer 
Kraft  zum  Range  einer  Grossmacht.  Unter  dem  wuchtigen  Druck 
dieses  Aufschwungs  mussten  zunachst  einige  der  edelsten  Tradi- 
tionen  des  jungen  Volkes  verflachen.  Was  Wunder,  dass  grelle 
Selbstgefalligkeit  das  Wesen  des  modernen  Amerikanertums 
durchfarbt,  dass  Selbstbetonung  und  Selbstdurchsetzung  zu  vor- 
waltenden  Charakterzijgen  zu  werden  drohen  und  der  echte  Pa- 
triot der  Furcht  vor  dem  Verlust  der  miihsam  gewonnenen  ide- 
alen Giiter  Raum  zu  geben  beginnt? 

Der  deutsche  Idealismus  in  Amerika  soil  verhindern  helfen, 
dass  der  platte  Wirklichkeitssinn  der  Gegenwart  den  ganzen  fer- 
neren  Werdegang  unseres  Volkes  durchdaure  und  bestimme. 


Patriofischc  Betrachtungen  103 

Der  Deutsche  zeichnete  sich  von  jeher  aus  durch  sicheren 
Sinn  fiir  seine  historische  Mission  unci  durch  riickhaltslose  Hin- 
gabe  an  sie.  Drum  ergreife  er  mit  Freudigkeit  seinen  Beruf  als 
ein  hoher  erzieherischer  Faktor,  als  ein  treibendes  Element  echten 
Fortschritts.  Das  vermag  er  aber  nur  dann,  wenn  er  sich  mit 
eisengepanzerter  Entschlossenheit  auf  der  vollen  Bildungshohe 
seiner  Zeit  zu  halten  weiss.  Somit  ist  ernste  Selbstkultur  fiir  uns 
das  dringendste  Erfordernis. 

In  ursachlichem  Zusammenhang  mit  der  Erkenntnis  dieser 
Verpflichtungen  steht  das  Verhaltnis  des  Deutschamerikaners  zu 
deutschen  sowie  zur  amerikanischen  Mitwelt.  Es  ware  toricht 
und  siindhaft,  sich  durch  Loslosung  von  der  einen  oder  der  ande- 
ren  seines  besten  Einflusses  auf  den  Charakter  seiner  Nachkom- 
menschaft  mutwillig  zu  berauben.  Er  muss  mit  beiden  Fiihlung 
behalten  als  ihr  natiirlicher  Vermittler.  So  werden  bei  ihm  die 
Reichtiimer  zweier  Zivilisationen  aufgestapelt,  wird  durch  ihn  der 
Gtiteraustausch  bewerkstelligt,  und  in  seinen  Handen  bleibt,  wenn 
er  will,  als  Lohn  das  Allerkostbarste  zuriick. 

Diese  Auffassung  birgt  ferner  den  kategorischen  Befehl,  uns 
mit  dem  deutschen  Geistesleben,  das  an  der  modernen  Kulturarbeit 
noch  immer  den  hervorragendsten  Anteil  hat,  in  gesteigertem 
Grade  zu  beschaftigen.  Es  aussert  in  der  Gegenwart  eine  unver- 
kennbare  Kraft.  Allenthalben  sehen  wir  bedeutende  Manner 
mutvoll  um  neue  Ideale  kampfen.  Jeder  Tag  erzeugt  im  Bereich 
der  Kunst  und  Wissenschaft  beachtenswerte  Werke ;  und  wer  aus 
dem  Studium  ihrer  Erscheinungen  die  Ueberzeugung  schopft, 
dass  die  kiinstlerische  und  wissenschaftliche  Produktion  in  reicher 
Wechselwirkung  mit  den  Wirklichkeiten  des  Daseins  ist,  dass 
sich  das  deutsche  Leben  stetig  kraftigt  und  doch  zugleich  verfei- 
nert,  der  wird  aus  dem  Grunde  seiner  Seele  wiinschen  miissen, 
dass  auch  wir  Amerikaner  desselben  Geistes  einen  Hauch  ver- 
spiiren.  Unerlassliche  Bedingung  hierzu  ist,  dass  das  deutsche 
Leben  in  Amerika  grosszugiger  werde,  dass  zugunsten  ernsten 
zielgewissen  Bildungsstrebens  die  Anspriiche  der  Geselligkeits- 
und  Gemuthlichkeitspflege  und  vor  allem  die  des  blossen  Zeit- 


104  Patriotische  Betrachtungen 

vertreibs  in  Familie  und  Verein  strenger  als  bisher  eingeschrankt 
werden. 

Ich  predig-e  nicht  die  Abkehr  von  den  Freuden  und  Friichten 
praktischer  Tatigkeit.  Kein  Verniinftiger  wird  von  uns  verlan- 
gen,  dass  wir  im  Wettlauf  nach  praktischen  Zielen  hinter  Mit- 
biirgern  anderen  Stammes  znriickbleiben  und  dieweil  wir  ideelle 
Luftschlosser  bauen,  uns  um  die  greifbaren  Erfolge  des  Lebens 
prellen  lassen.  Es  hat  nie  einen  iiberzeugteren  Idealisten  gegeben 
als  Johann  Gottlieb  Fichte.  Folgendes  sind  seine  Worte,  vor 
hundert  Jahren  gesprochen :  ,,Dass  Ideale  sich  in  der  wirklichen 
Welt  nicht  darstellen  lassen.  wissen  wir.  .  .  .  Wir  behaupten 
nur,  dass  nach  ihnen  die  Wirklichkeit  beurteilt  und  von  denen, 
die  dazu  Kraft  in  sich  fiihlen,  modifiziert  werden  miisse."  Und 
an  anderer  Stelle  predigt  er  den  Idealismus  der  Tat  also :  ,,Nichts 
hat  unbedingten  Wert  und  Bedeutung  als  das  Leben;  alles 
Uebrige,  Denken,  Dichten  und  Wissen  hat  nur  Wert,  insofem 
es  auf  irgend  eine  Weise  sich  auf  das  Lebendige  bezieht,  von  ihm 
ausgeht  und  in  dasselbe  zuriickzugelangen  beabsichtigt." 

Die  Wirklichkeit  modifizieren,  dazu  gehort  in  der  Tat  viel 
Kraft  und  viel  Mut.  Waffnen  wir  uns  daher  in  der  Riistkammer 
unserer  glorreichen  Geschichte  und  treten  wir  mit  Habebald  und 
Haltefest,  den  Gewaltigen  des  neuen  Kurses,  unerschrocken  den 
Strauss  an, 

Es  gilt  unsere  Stammesehre.  Wir  miissen  dafiir  sorgen, 
dass  der  oft  geriihmte  deutsche  Idealismus  denen,  die  nach  uns 
kommen,  nicht  zu  einer  blutleeren  Abstraktion  erstarre.  Nur  auf 
diesem  Wege  werden  wir  Jiingeren  imstande  sein,  das  Lebens- 
werk  unserer  ausgezeichneten  Vorganger  zu  vervollstandigen,  zu 
verjiingen,  zu  vertiefen. 

Otto  Heller. 

Washington  University,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


BERLIN.  A  GERMAN  SETTLEMENT  IN  WATERLOO 
COUNTY,  ONTARIO,  CANADA.* 

Anyone  going  East  on  the  Chicago  Flyer,  having  passed 
Stratford,  a  junction  of  various  local  lines  with  the  Main  Line  of 
the  Grand  Trunk,  on  its  road  to  Toronto,  will  be  struck  by  two 
things.  One  is  a  general  appearance  of  prosperity  in  a  monot- 
onous, unattractive  country;  the  other  a  series  of  German  local 
names,  Baden,  Breslau,  Berlin.  They  clearly  indicate  that  Ger- 
man settlers  have  taken  up  their  abode  in  these  districts. 

They  are  by  no  means  the  only  ones  in  Canada.  Though  the 
German  element  is  not  as  prevalent  as  in  the  States,  there  is  yet 
hardly  a  county  without  some  German  village  or  hamlet.  In  the 
States  the  proportion  of  the  German  contingent  to  their  ninety 
million  of  inhabitants  is  greater  than  their  fraction  of  the  only 
six  millions  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada.  Moreover,  one  can 
hardly  say  that  the  German  settlements  as  such  have  so  great  an 
influence  on  the  national  development  in  Canada  as  they  had  and 
are  having  in  the  United  States.  In  Canada  they  are  islands 
surged  round  by  the  waves  of  a  very  mixed  population ;  with  a 
predominance  of  the  native  element,  almost  obliterated  in  the 
States.  There  is  no  well  Germanized  West  to  correspond  to 
the  French  East  Canada.  Nevertheless,  the  Germans  that 
are  there  are  looked  upon  by  their  neighbors  with  great  respect 
on  account  of  their  thrift,  diligence  and  sober  habits,  and  are 
trying  to  uphold  their  German  individuality  against  the  natural 
inroad  of  Anglisation. 

The  settlement  in  Ontario  is  numerically  the  strongest.  It 
consists  of  about  20,400  people.     Nova  Scotia  and   Manitoba 


*Read  in  the  Germanic  Association,  U.  of  P.,  Jan.  14,  1807. 

(105) 


io6  Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont.,  Can. 

follow  second  and  third,  the  numbers  going  on  decreasing  as  one 
travels  both  East,  and  West.  In  the  West  the  most  important 
•Indian  Reserves  are  to  be  found,  while  the  East — Quebec  with 
Montreal,  New  Brunswick  and  Nova  Scotia — is  almost  entirely 
under  French  influence.  Yet  there  are  sprinklings  of  German 
settlements  on  the  remotest  islands,  Vancouver  and  Prince  Ed- 
wards Isle — the  latter  having  about  seven  hundred  of  them.  A 
claim  to  real  German  municipal  life,  though  naturally  adapted 
to  the  laws  of  the  Dominion,  can  only  be  granted  to  the  wealthy 
and  important  places  as  found  in  Waterloo  and  Manitoba;  the 
most  prominent  of  these  is  doubtlessly  the  little  but  extremely 
active  town  of  Berlin. 

On  the  whole,  it  is  difficult  to  trace  the  historical  origin  of 
the  various  colonies.  Direct  settlement  from  the  mother  country 
hardly  took  place  in  the  early  days.  Early  immigration  into  the 
States  was  due  frequently  to  religious  persecution  of  sectarians. 
Even  in  counties,  like  Northern  Germany,  Scandinavia,  Aus- 
tria, where  schism  as  such  was  ordinarily  winked  at,  Mennonites 
and  Anabaptists  found  no  mercy  for  their  tenets,  as  their  creed 
forbade  them  the  bearing  of  arms  and  service  in  the  army. 

Now  Canada,  while  in  French  hands,  was  jealously  guarded 
against  immigration  of  Non-Catholics.  Even  native  French 
Huguenots  were  excluded ;  naturally,  no  alien  heretic  of  any  kind 
could  enter,  nor  would  it  have  been  any  gain  to  him. 

But  when  mismanagement  and  unsuccessful  warfare  had 
given  the  whole  of  the  Dominion  into  the  power  of  Great  Britain, 
the  bar  of  religious  prejudice  fell.  The  first  impetus  to  immigra- 
tion from  the  States  was  given,  when  in  1785  the  final  seces- 
sion of  the  American  Union  from  the  English  mother  country 
severed  all  connections  with  a  king  to  whom  the  Mennonites  by 
their  given  word  still  felt  pledged.  Together  with  a  large  band 
of  Loyalists  they  struck  for  the  Canadian  frontier,  neither  halted 
nor  hindered  by  the  young  United  States  Government,  choosing 
the   lands  around   and   above  Lake   Ontario.      It  was   a  place, 


Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont. ,  Can.    107 

though  not  ill-favored  as  to  climate  and  fertility,  which  offered 
almost  unsiirmountable  difficulties  to  the  Pioneer  Settlers,  yet  it 
was  potentially  capable  of  great  commercial  and  agricultural  de- 
velopment. 

The  laborious  settlers,  by  felling  timber,  draining  swamps 
and  constructing  roads,  have  turned  a  wilderness  into  a  fruitful 
country. 

There  is  no  doubt  the  first  immigrants  were,  almost  to  a 
man,  Mennonites,  but  soon  the  German  townships  developed  also 
into  strongholds  of  Lutheranism  and  German  Baptist  Churches, 
with  handsome  buildings,  an  efficient  ministry  and  an  active 
church  life.  In  Berlin  a  huge,  fine  Roman  Catholic  Cathedral, 
with  seminary  and  school,  St.  Jerome's,  in  extensive  beautiful 
grounds,  is  almost  exclusively  under  English-Irish  direction. 

The  little  town  of  Berlin,  which  in  August,  1906,  celebrated 
its  centenary,  counts  among  her  twelve  thousand  inhabitants 
more  than  eight  thousand  pure-blooded  Germans,  and  calls  her- 
self proudly  "The  Best  Town  in  Canada." 

It  has  a  claim  to  such  a  title,  if  one  considers  that  really  and 
truly  her  founders  have  turned  the  desolation  of  the  wilderness 
into  a  fruitful  plain.  Of  course,  she  could  not  improve  greatly 
upon  the  intolerable  dulness  of  the  landscape,  even  by  planting 
a  very  pretty  park,  Victoria  Park,  with  a  small  deer  preserve 
and  running  brooklets,  furthermore  adorned  by  a  handsome 
bronze  bust  of  the  late  German  Emperor.  William  I.  The  Pavil- 
ion of  this  park  was  signalized  only  last  year  by  being  the  scene 
of  a  festive  banquet — quite  German — "with  beer,"  (by  request 
of  the  illustrious  visitor)  which  the  town  tendered  to  the  Prince 
of  B'attenburg  on  his  tour  through  Canada,  He  was  invited  to 
Berlin,  not  by  virtue  of  being  a  member  of  the  Imperial  house  of 
Great  Britain,  but  distinctly  of  being  "a  German."  Even  the 
melancholy  charm  of  a  wide,  rolling  country  is  utterly  destroyed 
by  a  huge  array  of  smokestacks,  for  Berlin  i's  quite  an  important 
industrial  centre.     We  have  also  indicated  that  it  is  a  town  emi- 


io8  Berlin,  a  Germayi  Seitlemeyit  in  Waterloo  County,  Out. ,  Ca?i. 

nently  proud  of  itself,  but  it  must  be  conceded,  not  with  the  lan- 
guid old-world  pride  of  past  grandeur,  long  since  resting  on  its 
oars — no  reason  for  that — but  the  pride  of  youth,  growth,  con- 
stant enlargement  and  conscious  improvements. 

Its  spruce  new  station,  as  compared  with  the  other  ram- 
shackle edifices  along  the  track,  the  good  solid  buildings  for 
business  and  private  residences,  all  bespeak  success  and  plenty, 
a  thrifty,  home-loving,  house-proud  population. 

It  is  a  pity  that  the  general  impression  has  nothing  of  the 
German  character — where  "Hiitt'  an  Hattchen  lehnt  sich  traut" 
— American  ways  of  living  had  taken  hold  already  of  the  first 
settlers,  and  now  the  whole  residential  part  of  the  town  strikes 
one  like  the  prosperous  suburb  of  any  middle-sized  city  in  the 
States.  There  are  the  two  business  thoroughfares,  crossing  at 
right  angles,  with  trolley  cars  jingling  through  them,  though 
only  to  meet  the  trains.  Even  the  working  population  invests 
first  of  all  in  a  snug  little  home — wood,  with  an  outside  cover- 
ing of  bricks,  yellow  or  white,  showing  well-kept  yards  and  even 
attempts  at  orchards. 

There  is  hardly  any  pauperism  in  Berlin.  The  whole  yearly 
output  for  poor  relief  is  below  $250;  singularly,  this  is  almost 
entirely  defrayed  by  the  returns  of  the  dog  tax  which  adds 
greatly  to  the  importance  and  dignity  of  Master  Canine.  On 
meeting  such  a  rate-payer  one  gets  a  supercilious  wink  and  a  per- 
functory wag.  The  electric,  the  gas  and  the  water  plants  are 
in  the  hands  of  the  corporation.  They  are  to  some  extent  recent 
and  very  expensive  acquisitions,  so  that  the  town  exchequer  is 
for  increasing  its  funds  before  tackling  the  building  of  a  new 
and  handsome  town  hall.  The  sewerage  and  drainage  are  said 
to  be  model  plants,  keeping  Berlin  one  of  the  healthiest  towns 
in  the  Dominion.  It  has  a  handsome  post  office  and  custom 
house,  a  fact  that  must  be  mentioned  specially,  if  one  looks  back 
upon  the  unsurmountable  difficulties  the  first  comers  had  to  face 
to  get  their  mail  and  any  other  connection  with  the  rest  of  the 


Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont.,  Can.    109 

world.  A  Carnegie  Library  is  the  newest  of  the  Pubhc  Build- 
ings. It  is  of  the  approved  pattern,  a  grey  stone  building,  with 
oak  woodwork  and  plate  glass,  and — situated  on  a  corner  lot — 
makes  quite  a  pretty  architectural  effect.  It  is  well  stocked  with 
German  literature ;  in  fact,  I  am  prepared  to  say,,  nearly  half  the 
shelves  are  filled  with  German  reading;  it  also  has  the  German 
newspapers  of  Berlin  and  the  other  towns  in  Waterloo  County. 

In  the  schools  the  instruction  is  in  English,  yet  in  the  upper 
classes  of  the  public  schools  German  tuition  is  imparted.  Due  to 
my  very  short  stay,  I  had  no  opportunity  to  be  present  at  one 
of  the  lessons,  yet  on  the  blackboard  I  found  well-known  rem- 
nants in  German  script,  questions  worded  in  German,  showing 
a  fair  average  standing  of  the  class.  The  Kindergarten  babies, 
with  their  flaxen  hair,  fat  cheeks  and  round  blue  eyes,  remind 
one  of  any  similar  gathering  in  a  Thuringian  or  Saxon  school- 
house.  They  sing  German  ditties  and  talk  German  to  each  other ; 
unfortunately,  the  young  lady  at  the  head  of  the  department — 
albeit  very  efficient  in  managing  her  obstreperous  little  charges, 
does  not  manage  the  German  tongue.  The  buildings  are  airy, 
comfortable  and  well  kept. 

Naturally  a  young  town  like  Berlin,  moreover  one  exclusively 
inhabited  by  an  industrial  population,  cannot  boast  any  art  treas- 
ures. Doubtless  the  future  will  bring  these  with  growing  wealth 
and  extending  views.  It  is  not  deficient  in  local  talent.  Paste: 
Heinrich  Rembe,  in  his  two  small  volumes,  "Aus  der  Einsamkeit 
einer  Canadischen  Landpfarre.,"  strikes  many  a  sweet  note.  Mr. 
Jno.  Rittinger,  owner  and  editor  of  the  "]o\ivr\7i\,'"  is  said  to 
command  quite  a  lyrical  vein,  and  apart  from  literature,  instru- 
mental and  vocal  music,  is  eagerly  cultivated.  The  exponents  of 
these  two  melodic  branches,  the  town  band  and  the  "Sanger- 
verein,"  as  they  occur  in  small  bailiwicks,  have  sometimes  experi- 
enced somewhat  rough  handling,  by  the  reports  handed  down 
to  history,  but  let  it  be  said  that  Berlin  is,  and  has  reason  to  be 
proud  01  her  famous  Nineteenth  Regimental  Band,  and  that  in 
1876  the  first  "Sangerfest"  was  celebrated. 


no  Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont.,  Can. 

As  an  industrial  centre,  however,  Berlin  need  not  hesitate 
to  enter  ranks  with  cities  many  times  removed  from  her  in  size 
and  age,  on  either  side  of  the  globe.  Her  sons  claim  that  what- 
ever kind  of  industry  they  engage  in,  they  do  it,  and  do  it  well, 
and  that  their  industry  always  leads  to  success.  They  have  the 
typical  small  town  man's  local  pride,  yet  this  is  the  great  lever 
to  raise  home  industry.  Just  as  every  workman  aims  at  owning 
the  home  he  lives  in,  so  the  inhabitant  of  Berlin  uses  by  prefer- 
ence things  "made  in  Berlin."  The  leading  industries  are  in  the 
Furniture  business.  Dry  Goods,  Hardware,  also  Clockmaking, 
Buttons,  Boots  and  Shoes,  Footwear  in  felt  and  rubber.  Like 
all  Canadian  towns,  the  furriers  are  playing  quite  a  part,  and  as 
naturally  the  small  town  cannot  furnish  demand  for  a  large 
output  in  all  these  branches,  there  is  a  large  export  trade,  not 
only  with  Canada  and  the  States,  but  with  Europe. 

Commonplace  and  uninteresting  the  town  may  be  to  the 
casual  stranger  who  walks  the  clean  streets,  very  empty  unless 
it  be  the  times  when  the  factories  disgorge  their  hands.  He  is  a 
prey  to  hopeless  boredom,  glad  when  at  night  he  can  fall  a  victim 
to  an  occasional  One-Night-Stand-Company,  that  happens  to 
stop  over.  Yet  there  is  one  wonderful  attraction  in  the  drone  of 
this  busy-bee-life  of  the  hundred-year-old  town,  when  we  con- 
sider what  it  has  been,  how  it  was  settled.  For  a  hundred  years 
ago  these  well-ventilated  large  factories,  those  neat,  comfortable 
dwellings,  ensconced  in  the  green  of  their  own  yards,  were  a 
howling  wilderness.  There  was  swamp  nearly  from  Toronto  to 
Hamilton,  and  the  watercourse,  the  Grand  River,  like  so  many 
Canadian  rivers,  either  a  rapid  torrent  in  the  time  of  the  spring 
freshets,  or,  dryed  up  by  the  summer  heat,  a  gravel  pit,  with  a 
fair  show  of  quicksands. 

It  was  to  a  most  uninviting  neighborhood,  to  a  pathless 
desert,  wreaking  with  malaria,  sandy  plains  that  seemed  to  defy 
agriculture,  that  the    brave    settlers  from  Bucks  and  Alleghany* 


*The  old  Allegheny  County  in  Pa.,  neighboring  Bucks  and  Franklin. 


Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont. ,  Can.    1 1 1 

Counties  wended  their  way,  partly  prompted  by  loyalty  to  their 
Sovereign  in  England,  to  whom  they  had  sworn  allegiance  which 
their  subtle  Mennonite  conscience  could  not  discard ;  partly,  in 
later  companies,  drawn  by  friends  and  relatives  who  had  gone 
ahead,  while  the  increasing  population  at  home  made  it  difficult 
for  them  to  maintain  their  farms.  Going  west  on  the  Grand 
Trunk  from  Montreal,  or  going  up  the  St.  Lawrence,  passing 
where 

"Old  St.  Lawrence  sings  and  smiles 
Round  Blue  Ontario's  Thousand  Isles," 

we  reach  a  Peninsula  extending  into  the  Great  Lakes,  roughly 
a  square  with  its  eastern  corner  cut  off  where  it  joins  the 
mainland.  It  is  bordered  on  the  northeast  by  the  Geor- 
gian Bay,  the  northwest  by  Lake  Huron  and  the  small  Lake  St. 
Clan-  between  the  two  great  waters;  Lake  Huron  and  Lake 
Erie  washing  the  whole  shore.  On  the  east  it  is  separated  from 
American  soil  for  a  short  distance  by  nothing  but  the  Niagara 
River  and  Falls,  going — with  a  slight  deviation — directly  from 
south  to  north,  joining  Lake  Erie  to  Lake  Ontario.  Between  them, 
however.^  the  dismal  swamp  of  Beverly  cut  off  the  land  from 
civilization.  It  is  obvious  that  a  district  set  right  into  the  junc- 
ture of  the  Great  Lakes  had  unparalleled  advantages  for  naviga- 
tion, but  equal  disadvantages  as  to  soil,  climate  and  roads.  It 
was  a  low-lying  country,  with  no  natural  facilities  for  draining 
the  fenns  and  marshes  of  Hamilton  and  Toronto,  now  the 
t?wo  important  governmental  towns,  both  on  the  banks  of  Lake 
Ontario,  only  the  former,  then  called  Little  York,  existed  at 
that  time  and  had  to  be  approached  for  every  legal  transaction  of 
any  kind ;  the  other,  Hamilton,  was  nothing  but  a  section  of  the 
dismal  swamp. 

The  district  was  held  by  Indians,  the  so-called  Neutral  Na- 
tion. These  were  tribes  that  did  not  take  part  in  the  bloody  war- 
fare between  Hurons  and  Iroquois.  In  spite  of  their 
neutrality      they      were    put    out    of    existence    one    day    by 


112    Beylhi,  a  German  Settlement  in  'Waterloo  County,  Ont.,  Ca7t. 

the  treachery  of  the  Iroquois.  In  the  war  between  England  and 
France  tlic  Iroquois  were  on  the  Enghsh  side  and  the  French 
opposed  them,  driving  them  forth  from  the  West.  A  greater 
part  of  them  remained  loyal  during  the  Revolutionary  War, 
and  they  were  rewarded  by  the  grant  of  the  lands  of  the  former 
Neutral  People,  six  miles  on  each  side  of  the  Grand  River,  which 
the  Chippewas  had  been  using  as  hunting  grounds,  and  which 
King  George  bought  from  them  to  hand  to  the  Iroquois  and  their 
leader  Josef  Brandt;  soon  they  were  convinced  that 
this  district  was  too  large  for  them,  and  they  returned  the  sur- 
plus land  to  the  Crown,  the  Crown  being  the  middleman  be- 
tween seller  and  purchaser.  The  part  called  Wellington,  later 
Waterloo  County,  came  into  the  hands  of  Richard  Beasley,  James 
Wilson  and  John  B.  Rasseau.  The  tract,  containing  94,012 
acres,  went  for  £8882 ;  as  was  said :  "Not  a  bad  price"  for  a 
trackless  wilderness. 

Beasley  bought  out  his  partners.^  but  burdened  the  property 
with  a  mortgage  which  later  threatened  to  be  fatal  to  the  settle- 
ment. 

About  the  same  time,  the  closing  year  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  when  American  independence  was  well  established,  sev- 
eral new  Mennonite  colonies  were  founded,  and  the  settlement 
on  the  Grand  River  began  in  good  earnest.  There  had  been  two 
groups  of  Loyalists  in  the  States  and  among  the  Pennsylvania 
Dutch— the  active  ones  who  had  taken  up  arms,  and  had  to  pre- 
cipitate their  egress  unless  they  testified  their  allegiance  to  the 
Union,  and  the  passive  ones  who  had  not  engaged  in  fighting, 
only  done  some  hauling  for  which  they  had  been  reasonably 
paid.  They  could  take  their  time  in  the  removal  of  their  goods 
and  chattels;  and  though  close  dealers  and  of  not  very  gushing 
enthusiasm,  it  was  loyalty  that  made  them  prefer  the  Canadian 
wilderness  to  tempting  ofifers  from  the  new  government.  Two 
men,  Joseph  Schork  and  Samuel  Betzner,  from  Franklin  County, 
were   the  real   pioneers,   for  they   came   into  a   country   where 


Berlin^  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont. ,  Can.    113 

roving  trappers  and  traders,  the  best  known  among  them  charac- 
terized by  his  nickname,  "Old  Dodge,"  had  been  the  only  Pale 
Faces  known  to  the  Indians.  Schork  crossed  the  river  and  set- 
tled East,  near  the  later  township  Boon;  Betzner,  West,  near 
what  is  now  called  Blair. 

All  along  the  Niagara  River,  also  in  York  County,  along 
the  York  street  north  of  Toronto,  settlements  had  sprung  up 
since  1795.  But  for  the  Waterloo  or  Wellington  district  these 
two  men  were  the  first  home-makers. 

It  was  not  without  effort  that  they  had  started  on  a  march 
across  country  which  was  to  end  thirty  miles  beyond  civiliza- 
tion, practically  next  to  nowhere.  But  the  unquenchable  energy 
of  that  hard-headed,  hard-handed  race  knew,  where  there  was 
ground,  it  might  be  tilled ;  waste,  it  might  be  redeemed,  where 
man  had  trodden  once,  he  might  walk  again.  Their  stock  in 
trade  was  moderate  capital,  business  shrewdness,  unflinching 
industry  and  strict  honesty  with  whatsoever  contracting  party. 

They  changed  their  house  in  Pennsylvania  for  tracts  of  land 
and  bought  a  yoke  of  oxen  and  a  sled;  thus  in  a  truly  patri- 
archal fashion  they  set  out  for  the  new  home,  the  hardships  of 
the  journey  being  such  that  we  can  hardly  realize  that  only  a 
century  lies  between  those  times  and  our  express  flyers.  The  day 
marches  could  only  be  short,  for  the  animals  had  to  rest,  some- 
times more  than  one  night,  and  all  the  distance  to  Buffalo  had 
first  to  be  covered.  Not  a  single  Pale  Face  was  at  that  time  to 
be  found  in  Buffalo;  Hamilton's  site  was  a  bottomless  mire, 
and  to  pass  it  so  called  "Corduroy  Bridges" — logs  forming  a 
kind  of  pavement  or  bridge,  being  joined  fiute-like — had  to  be 
built  to  get  the  teams  over. 

In  Dundas,  then  a  lonely  outpost  in  the  midst  of  the  marshes 
there  was  a  small  mill  and  store.  Dundas  is  now  a  flourishing 
township,  first  station  west  of  Hamilton  on  the  line  to  Port 
Huron ;  maybe  that  "little  mill  and  store"  was  its  first  nucleus. 

Nevertheless,  the  next  year,  1800,  new  settlers  arrived: 
Betzner  senior, — it  is  not  clear  whether  he  was  the  father  or  elder 


114  Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  0?it.,  Can. 

brother  of  Samuel  Betzner — and  a  certain  Reichert,  also  the 
Sigerich  family  from  Lancaster  County,  Pa.  They  must  have 
been  quite  wealthy,  for  their  convoy  consisted  of  no  less  than 
one  cart  with  six  horses,  twelve  oxen,  twelve  sheep,  two  saddle 
horses.  They  had  to  undergo  great  hardships  of  all  kinds ;  man 
and  beast  seemed  to  succumb  to  the  fatigue.  At  last  they  reached 
their  journey's  end  after  five  weeks  of  traveling.  The  same 
year,  i8(X),  saw  seven  families  from  Montgomery  County  make 
for  Waterloo.  They  crossed  the  Niagara  at  the  "Flats."  One 
of  the  newcomers,  Clemens,  drove  the  first  horse  team  through 
Beverley  Swamp.  Now  this  swamp  had  to  be  passed  every  time 
the  settlers  wanted  their  grain  ground  or  to  get  any  provisions. 
Little  York  being  the  county  town,  they  had  to  hie  them  thither 
for  the  use  of  the  post  office,  for  any  legal  transaction,  to  learn 
of  any  publication  that  might  interest  them.  This  latter  fact, 
namely  the  inability  of  getting  prompt  cognizance  of  their  legal 
affairs,  proved  nearly  fatal  to  the  young  colony.  The  Government, 
according  to  its  well-wont  policy,  offered  these  loyalists  no  as- 
sistance, 

Li  1800  a  little  school  was  founded  by  a  man  named  Ritten- 
house;  at  the  same  time  a  miller  named  Miller,  who  had  shown 
sympathies  for  the  American  struggle  for  independence,  and 
had  in  consequence  lost  the  thousand  acres  of  ground  he  had 
owned,  founded  a  little  gristmill  and  store  in  Gait,  which  must 
have  been  a  real  inroad  of  civilization,  for  we  have  to  remember 
where  the  settlers  had  not  clearings,  there  was  trackless  desola- 
tion richly  populated  with  bears  and  wolves. 

No  doubt,  the  sturdy  pioneers  would  have  kept  on  improv- 
ing, clearing,  sowing  and  reaping,  if  a  blow  had  not  suddenly 
threatened  them  which  would  fain  wrest  from  them  their  hard- 
earned  homes.  It  came  from  a  side  where  no  one  expected  it; 
probably  only  the  fewest  knew  about  it ;  the  old  forgotten  mort- 
gage of  £2000,  with  which  Richard  Beasley  had  encumbered  the 
land.  Beasley  had  been  plying  a  busy  trade  with  his  "lots," 
when  a  "gentleman,"   name  unknown,  whom  Samuel  Betzner 


Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont,  Can.    115 

met  on  his  way  to  Toronto,  told  him  about  the  affair.  In  course 
of  time,  though  postal  connection  was  slow,  such  news  reached 
the  home  country;  would-be-immigrants  reconsidered  matters, 
and  Beasley  had  his  land  on  his  hands;  it  had  only  a 
potential  value  for  the  buyer  and  settler,  for  it  was  still  com- 
pletely unproductive.  He  now  came  forth  with  an  offer  to  the 
settlers;  they  should  form  a  joint  stock  company  and  buy  sixty 
thousand  acres  from  him.  This  would  bring  practically  the  whole 
of  the  county  into  their  hands,  incidentally  lift  the  mortgage 
and  free  them  from  their  joint  liability.  Probably  the  faith 
of  the  straightminded  Mennonites  in  Richard  Beasley  was  al- 
ready shaken,  yet  they  had  to  agree  to  his  plan,  having  no 
other  way  out.  In  1804  the  pioneer  settlers,  Betzner  and  Shork, 
retraced  their  way  to  Pennsylvania,  to  interest  their  friends  and 
relatives  in  the  plan,  and  raise  the  necessary  money  for  the 
transaction. 

The  result  was  most  discouraging.  Both  in  Franklin  County 
and  in  Cumberland  the  members  of  the  communities  seemed  to 
have  become  reconciled  to  American  citizenship.  The  proposal 
of  emigration  "into  that  far-off  country,"  moreover  to  live  again 
"under  a  crown,"  and  brace  again  the  hardships  of  first  settler- 
ship,  did  not  appear  to  any  of  them.  They  designated  the  Cana- 
dian settlement  as  a  failure,  and  it  might  easily  have  become  one 
— it  was  spurned  by  the  government  in  the  new,  by  the  brethren 
in  the  old  home. 

Happily,  the  Great  Central  Power  in  Heaven  held  a  dif- 
ferent view  from  the  one  ruling  in  St.  James,  connected  with 
Little  York  (now  Toronto),  by  big  and  involved  strands  of  red 

tape. 

The  two  embassadors,  heavy-hearted  and  dejected,  were 
on  the  point  of  returning.  In  fact,  Shork  did  so  in  despair; 
Betzner,  however,  went  to  Lancaster  County.  Here  was  the 
home  of  the  brothers  Eby.  One  of  them,  Bishop  Benjamin  Eby, 
is  still  to  play  an  all-important  part  in  the  settlement  of  Water- 
loo  County,  but  at  present  it  is  his  elder  brother  Hannes  to 


ii6  Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  'Waterloo  County,  Otit,,  Can. 

whose  zealous  faith  and  Christian  generosity,  the  primary  con- 
dition of  its  existence  is  due.  There  was  a  meeting  at  his  house 
when  Betzner  entered,  and  brought  forth  his  last  plea.  At  first 
the  same  sullen  coldness  as  in  Lancaster  and  Cumberland,  Sud- 
denly the  Holy  Ghost  seemed  to  enter  Hannes  and  in  a  long 
thundering  speech  he  declared  it  their  plain  Christian  duty  not 
to  leave  their  far-off  brethren  in  distress. 

The  result  of  his  fervent  appeal  was  the  speedy  organization 
of  the  "German  Company,"  a  joint  stock  company,  where  no 
one  person  should  hold  more  than  one  whole,  nor  less  than  one- 
eighth  of  a  share.  The  amount  of  two  hundred  thousand  dollars 
was  handed  over  to  Betzner  and  one  Daniel  Erb,  all  in  silver, 
and  transported  by  them  "in  ein  leicht  Plasierwageli"  to  their 
now  finally  secured  homes.  One  may  easily  imagine  the  anxiety 
of  the  wanderers  with  their  precious  and  tempting  burden  through 
all  the  pathless  desolation  of  the  home  journey;  Niagara  had 
to  be  crossed  in  a  scow  12  by  14  feet,  Beverley  Swamp  on  the 
usual  Corduroy  track.  At  last  they  brought  their  load  of  re- 
sponsibility and  good  tidings  to  their  homesteads,  and  the  con- 
clusion of  the  business  could  take  place.     We  read : 

"The  tract  of  sixty  thousand  acres,  more  or  less,  conveyed 
on  the  29th  of  June,  1805,  by  Richard  Beasley,  of  Barton,  and 
his  wife,  Henrietta,  to  Daniel  and  Jacob  Erb,  for  $1,000,  sur- 
veyed into  lots  of  448  acres,  and  distributed  by  lot  among  the 
shareholders,  so  as  to  avoid  jealousy,  and  to  allow  each  settler 
to  know  beforehand  where  he  was  to  locate." 

A  copy  of  this  deed  is  still  kept  at  the  Registry  Office  of  the 
Berlin  Town  Hall. 

Eighteen  hundred  and  six  was  an  important  year  for  the 
colonists.  Jacob  Schneider  from  Path  Valley,  Pa.,  in  Franklin 
County,  near  Chambersburg,  acquired  land  for  a  party  of  418 
persons.  This  large  contingent  parted  from  their  old  home- 
stead for  a  thirty-two  days'  journey.  Women  and  children  in 
carts,  men  partly  on  horseback,  to  reconnoitre  the  lay  of  the 
land,  partly  goading  the  beasts  of  burden  or  driving  the  fiocks. 


Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Ont.,  Can.    117 

In  spite  of  a  few  small  casualties  general  cheerfulness  seems  to 
have  prevailed  among  this  company  that  seemed  like  one  of  the 
tribes  of  the  Old  Testament.  Their  road  led  across  the  Alle- 
ghany Mountains,  the  Susquehanna,  Tonawanda  and  Niagara 
Rivers.  The  latter  was  spanned  by  rough  bridges.  At  that  time 
Hamilton  on  this  side  of  the  Beverly  Swamp  had  budded  out 
with  a  few  log  cabins  and  a  small  inn ;  Dundas  still  had  its  mill 
and  somewhat  increased  store. 

When  this  large  party  scattered  over  their  respective  allot- 
ments, Benjamin  Eby  located  on  "Lot  2"  of  the  "German  Com- 
pany's Tract."    He  gave  out  a  job  of  two  acres  and  had  a  house 
built.     Then  he  went  back   to  his   former  place  in  Lancaster 
County,  only  to  return  in  June,  1807,  with  his  bride,  Marie  Bru- 
bacher.'   The  very  fact  that  he  did  not  build  his  own  house  with 
his  own  hands  like  his  brethren,  but  gave  the  work  out,  so  as  to 
bring  his  young  wife  to  a  ready  made  home,  showed  a  distinction 
between  him  and  the  others,  even  his  own  brothers,  Yarrick  and 
Samuel  Eby,  both  sturdy  farmers.     The  latter  was  generally 
known  under  the  name  of  "Indian  Sam."     Benjamin  as  a  child 
had  shown  himself  thoughtful  and  delicate,  so  that  it  was  an 
established  fact  among  friends  and  neighbors— "Aus  'em  Benny 
kommt  kae  Bauer,  der  muss  Schulmeister  werre!"     This  led  to 
the  lad  having  a  somewhat  better  education  than  his  companions 
and  his  ultimately  embracing  the  ministry.     He  became  Bishop 
of  the  Mennonites,  and  soon  after  his  ordination  in  1809,  he 
offered  a  site  for  a  church  on  his  own  land.     Four  years  later  a 
little  log  building,  known  as  "Benjamin  Eby's  Versammlungs- 
haus"  was  ready  for  divine  service :  the  first  church  in  Waterloo 
County.     In  a  house  next  to  the  church  he  kept  a  little  German 
school,  not  quite  the  first,  however,  for  "John  Beatty,  "an  Irish- 
man," had  taught  in  a  small  house  near  "Indian  Sam's"  home- 
stead at  the  "Two  Bridges,"  being  engaged  by  the  three  Ebys, 
Joseph  Schneider  and  others. 

There  was  a  small  but  constant  influx  of  settlers,  all  Ger- 
mans  some  skilled  mechanics.     A  weaver  named  Bersicker  had 


ii8  Berlin,  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  Cojmty,  Ont.,  Can. 

his  shop  where  the  present  post  office  stands.  On  the  site  of  the 
present  Bank  of  Commerce  Hved  a  turner,  Christian  Christner, 
"der  niachte  Spindehi  fiir  Spinnrader,  Spulen  und  desgleichen." 
Further  down,  where  now  the  principal  thoroughfare  runs,  there 
Hved  a  fanning  milhvright,  also  a  wainwright,  with  a  little  drink- 
ing place  attached  to  his  shop,  which  shows  the  beginning  of  some 
traffic. 

Peaceful  occupation,  right  in  the  beginning  of  the  settle- 
ment, received  a  rough  shock  by  the  outbreak  of  the  war  between 
England  and  the  United  States  in  1812.  The  Mennonites  ob- 
tained respect  for  their  religious  tenets,  in  so  far  that,  although 
pressed  into  service,  they  were  only  used  as  teamsters  to  the 
English  army.  They  even  received  indemnification  after  the 
war. 

It  is  quite  evident  that  Benjamin  Eby's  house,  church  and 
school  formed  the  nucleus  of  a  hamlet  or  village  which  was 
steadily  growing,  though  it  only  went  under  the  name  of  the 
"Sand  Hills,"  or  "Eby's  Place." 

Eighteen  hundred  and  fifteen,  a  new  party  arrived  from 
Berks  County.  They  had  a  rough  greeting  next  year;  1816  was 
the  terrible  "Cold  Summer."  In  June,  July  and  August  every- 
thing was  frozen  stifY  as  in  December,  there  were  no  crops,  and 
only  wise  distribution  of  grain  and  provender  could  avoid  actual 
famine  for  man  and  beast. 

Wolves,  bears  and  foxes,  starving  in  the  frozen  swamps, 
were  driven  close  to  human  habitations,  and  maybe  the  fur  trade 
helped  a  little  against  the  general  need,  for  wild  beasts,  whose 
skins  are  among  the  most  highly  prized,  were  seen  and  killed  in 
unusual  numbers. 

The  Indians,  with  whom  good  relations  were  always  main- 
tained, were  glad  to  avail  themselves  of  the  help  of  the  "Pale 
Faces"  against  the  inclemencies  of  the  weather.  We  are  told 
that  kitchens  were  left  open  at  night,  and  some  rough  messes 
placed  on  the  hub  of  the  hearth  for  the  shivering  tribesmen  who, 
with  their  Squaws  and  Pappooses,  crept  into  the  warm  ashes,  and 


Berlin^  a  German  Settlement  in  Waterloo  County,  Out.,  Can.    119 

touched  never  a  thing  but  what  was  meant  for  them,  even  showed 
their  gratitude  in  many  httle  ways.  It  is  also  said  that  Jakob 
Hailer,  a  wheelwright,  who  immigrated,  not  from  Pennsylvania, 
but  from  Baden,  Germany,  in  1833,  allowed  the  Indians  the  use 
of  his  workshop  between  Christmas  and  New  Year  every  year, 
and  that  they  conscientiously  replaced  every  tool  they  had  used 
and  took  nothing  away.  This  man's  daughter,^  Mrs.  Breithaupt, 
is  the  oldest  living  inhabitant  born  of  native  German  immigrants, 
a  great  number  of  whom  mingled  with  the  Pennsylvanians. 

Forest  fires  were  another  of  the  terrors ;  yet  they  seemed  al- 
ways to  have  been  controlled.  In  those  bad  years  wheat  prices 
went  up  to  90c.,  even  to  $1.05  per  bushel;  later  the  general  mar- 
ket price  was  50  to  60c.  Land  went  according  to  location  from 
$2.50  to  $4  per  acre. 

May  24,  1824,  John  Hoffman  arrived  with  his  brother  Jakob, 
both  from  Pennsylvania.  They  were  mere  boys,  and  with  one 
John  Bowers  they  learned  the  trade  of  cabinetmakers,  starting, 
after  they  had  finished  their  apprenticeship,  a  little  factory  on 
a  sandy  track  by  the  corner  of  a  marsh,  on  a  plot  given  to  them 
by  Bishop  Eby ;  next  to  them  David  Miller  opened  a  little  store. 
This  was  in  so  far  an  important  event  as  it  was  the  birth  of  the 
chief  industry  of  the  town.  Miller's  store  was  near  the  seat  of 
the  present  townhall,  at  that  time  a  large  sandhill,  the  same  that 
gave  the  village  its  unpromising  name.  Soon  after  it  was  cut 
down  by  some  citizens  who  wished  the  ground  for  building  pur- 
poses. The  timber  was  still  easily  obtainable,  for  the  primaeval 
forest  was  not  yet  far  away,  and  one  Schantz,  who  seems  to  have 
been  a  particularly  clearheaded  and  upright  dealer,  had  organ- 
ized the  lumber  trade,  as  he  owned  several  heavily  wooded  lots, 
cutting  down  just  as  much  as  was  required,  and  giving  his  cus- 
tomers well-seasoned  lumber  at  reasonable  prices. 

One  rainy  afternoon,  we  are  told  by  Ezra  Eby  (a  School- 
master, Bishop  Benjamin's  grandson),  in  his  introduction  to  the 
record  of  settlers  which  he  compiled,  several  workmen  and 
Burghers  had  gathered  in  Hoffmann's  workshop,  discussing  the 


ISO  Bc7lm,  a  Cervwn  Settlement  in  Waferho  County,  Ont.,  Can. 

growth  of  their  town.  Bishop  Eby  joined  them,  and  to  his  in- 
quiry what  they  were  talking  about,  one  called  out :  "J^>  wie  soil 
denn  unser  neie  Stadt  heisse?"  The  Bishop  looked  around, 
and  finding  that  many  of  those  present  came  from  Berlin*  he 
said:  "Ei  so  heisst's  doch  Berlin!"  The  same  evening  the  men 
went  home  rejoicing:  "unser  Stadtche  hat  nu  e  Name!  Mer 
heissen's  Berlin!"  And  Berlin,  Ontario,  it  was  from  this  mo- 
ment. ■   il^p:s;i| 

Henceforth  there  is  to  be  noticed  the  steady  growth  of  a 
sound  organization  in  the  little  Canadian  town.  In  spite  of  a 
stray  bear  now  and  then,  or  the  visit  of  friendly  Indians,  Berlin 
lost  its  primaeval  character.  A  Post  Office  was  opened  as  late 
as  1841,  and  then  at  Waterloo,  not  Berlin.  It  really  looked  as  if 
the  Government  had  slighted  intentionally  this  decidedly  German 
town.  But  in  185 1,  in  the  fight  for  the  position  as  county 
town  Berlin  carried  the  victory  over  the  neighborhood  Gait. 

The  first  newspaper  was  the  Museum,  succeeded  ill  184 1  by 
Dcr  Deutsche  Canadicr,  published  by  Henry  Eby,  the  Bishop's 
son,  and  Christian  Enslin,  also  bookbinder  and  bookseller  by 
trade.  It  was  for  quite  a  time  the  only  link  with  the  events  of 
the  world,  except,  of  course,  private  correspondence.  The 
Canadier  for  its  part  was  destined  to  pass  away  in  time.  In  its 
place  are  now  the  Deutsche  Zeitiing  and  the  Journal,  weekly 
papers  with  a  circulation  of  1500  and  1759  copies  respectively; 
also  one  or  two  English  dailies.  In  the  German  tongue  appears 
a  little  mission  sheet :  Der  Evageliumshote,  monthly. 

Church  life  is  very  active ;  the  old  "Versammlungshaus"  has 
given  way  to  stately  edifices;  there  are  German  Lutherans, 
Baptists  and  Methodist  Churches,  besides  those  for  the  English 
population. 

The  present  fine  schools  are  the  keystone  of  the  arch  which 
we  see  rising  from  such  humble  foundations  as  that  of  of  the  Irish- 
man, John  Beatty's,  and  Bishop  Eby's  little  German  School.  About 
1828,  a  Miss  Clemens  kept  a  summer  school,  a  Mr.  DeKay,  a 


^Evident  by  Berlin,  Lancaster JCy.,  Pa. 


Berlin^  a  German  Settlement  in  "Waterloo  County ^  Ont.,  Can.    121 

winter  school.  Another  one,  also  English,  was  kept  in  the  Union 
Church  by  one  Winger,  pumpmaker  by  trade,  where  the  poor 
scholars  sat  shivering  round  the  stove.  "But",  we  read,  "the 
teacher  was  a  kind  and  good  one  for  the  time." 

In  advertisements  of  Dcr  Deutsche  Canadier  several  times 
"ein  Lehrer"  is  asked  to  apply,  yet  the  emoluments  do  not  seem  to 
have  been  very  tempting.  A  Sunday  School  was  founded  about 
1841  "im  klein  Schulhaus  beim  Versammlungshaus" ;  also  a 
branch  of  the  Bible  Society. 

Growth  of  industry,  the  leveling  influence  from  the  outside 
world  while  raising  the  prosperous  township — which  now  claims 
to  have  enough  inhabitants  to  be  able  to  apply  for  a  City  charter — 
to  the  rank  of  a  thriving  business  centre,  have  naturally  worn  off 
the  quaint  old  world  characteristics  of  pioneer  times,  of  the  first 
homemakers  in  the  wilderness.  The  primaeval  forests  have  giv- 
en their  best  to  make  and  to  enrich  the  seat  of  their  usurpers; 
they  are  still  feeding  the  sources  of  wealth  of  their  former  sites, 
they  still  supply  superior  timber  for  housebuilding  and  furnish- 
ing. Names  of  old  Mennonite  householders  and  craftsmen  such, 
as  Eby,  Schantz,  Hofmann,  Enslin,  Miller,  reappear  as  heads  of 
large  factories,  where  hosts  of  industrious,  home  owning,  skilled 
laborers  make  a  living  of  moderate  plenty,  yet  the  departure  of  the 
olden  times  and  with  it  the  old  people  was  evidently  felt  by  those 
who  had  known  them,  for  we  find  the  following  quaint  verses  at- 
tached to  Ezra  Eby's  otherwise  dry  catalogue: 

"Wo  sin  jetzt  die  alte  Doddys 

"Von  die  gute  alte  Zeit? 
"Wo  sin  die  gute  alte  Mommies, 

Die  scheene  gute  alte  Leit? 

"Ma  sehn  sie  nimme  bei  uns  do, 

"Die  scheene  gute  alte  Leit. 
"Im  Himmel  sind  sie  jetzt  so  froh. 

"Und  frehen  sich  in  Ewigkeit. — 

C.  L.  NICOLA Y, 

Philadelphia. 


REVIEWS. 

Persdnliche  Eindriicke  von    amcrikanischcn   Universitdten.     Alois 
Brandl.    Deutsche  Rundschau.    April,  1907. 

The  Franklin  Bi-Centennial  Celebration  occasioned  the  gather- 
ing, at  Philadelphia,  of  many  of  the  world's  noted  scientists  and 
scholars.  Among  these  dignitaries  was  Doctor  Alois  Brandl,  Pro- 
fessor of  English  Literature  at  the  University  of  Berlin.  During 
his  stay  here  he  visited  four  great  American  universities,  viz. :  Penn- 
sylvania, Columbia,  Harvard  and  Yale.  Upon  the  impressions 
gained  at  these  institutions,  the  article  in  question  was  written.  The 
author  is  fully  aware  that  the  observations  made  do  not  obtain  in 
all  American  universities,  especially  those  of  the  West.  The  article 
is  written  with  perfect  fairness  and  due  appreciaton  of  local  con- 
ditions. 

In  the  college,  the  foundation  of  our  universities,  the  writer 
recognizes  an  outgrowth  of  the  English  educational  system,  while 
in  our  graduate  schools  he  rejoices  to  find  an  offspring  of  the  ad- 
vanced methods  of  the  German  ins'itutions.  Being  a  ceaseless 
investigator  himself,  he  does  not  fail  to  note  that  the  Americans 
are  eager  in  the  discovery  of  new  truth.  While  England  seems  to 
be  content  to  teach  accepted  truths,  America,  like  Germany,  is  ever 
striving  for  new  discoveries. 

Our  ample  provision  for  physical  education,  of  course,  im- 
presses every  foreigner,  and  Dr.  Brandl  agrees  with  most  Germans 
that  we  slightly  overdo  it.  He  fully  values  the  good  that  springs 
from  it  and  expresses  the  hope  that  "Studentenkolonien"  may  be 
established  in  German  cities.  He  says:  "Gratitude  and  blessing  will 
come  to  the  rector  who  succeeds  in  bringing  about  this  undeniable 
necessity." 

German  universities  obtain  their  financial  appropriations  from 
the  government.  The  difficulty  which  our  schools,  other  than  state 
institutions,  experience  in  obtaining  the  necessary  means,  largely 
(122) 


Personliche  Eindrucke  von  Amerikanischen  Universit'dten.   123 

from  private  benefactors,  is  quite  apparent.  Though  our  wealthy 
citizens  are  very  liberal,  their  donations  are  of  necessity  localized 
and  often  misapplied  by  the  donor  himself.  Our  faculties  are  under- 
paid and  no  provision  is  made  for  the  support  of  aged  educators. 

Among  university  men  Dr.  Brandl  found  a  due  appreciation  of 
German  life  and  institutions.  The  anti-German  feeling  among  the 
masses,  he  believes,  is  caused  by  our  press  copying  prejudiced 
artitcles  from  the  British  periodicals,  and  one  of  the  greatest  strong- 
holds of  friendly  feeling  for  Grmany  is  to  be  found  among  the 
Americans  who  have  studied  at  German  universities. 

Professor  Brandl  has  examined  our  institutions  with  an  im- 
partial mind  and  has  observed  with  great  accuracy  and  deep  insight. 

Wm.  G.  Bek. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY    OF    GERMAN   AMERICANA   FOR   THE 

YEAR   1906. 

William   Godfrey  Bek. 

To  the  worker  in  the  vast  field  of  German  American  relations, 
an  easy  survey  of  the  activity  in  this  domain  should  be  welcome. 
Of  the  many  possible  phases  of  this  work,  the  literary,  historical  and 
cultural  are  particularly  emphasized.  The  impossibility  of  render- 
ing such  a  compilation  absolutely  complete  at  this  time,  must  be 
manifest.  It  is  believed,  however,  that  the  more  important  contri- 
butions to  this  study  are  here  noted.  The  compiler  will  be  most 
grateful  to  any  of  the  readers  of  the  Annals,  who  may  inform  him 
of  any  publications  on  subjects  germane  to  this  bibliography  which 
are  not  here  included. 

The  compiler  takes  great  pleasure  in  acknowledging  the  assist- 
ance of  Mr.  Amandus  Johnson  in  securing  that  part  of  the  biblio- 
graphy which  pertains  to  the  Skandinavians  in  America. 

MONOGRAPHS. 

Bahr,  Max.    Reisebericht  ijber  Amerika.    Pub.  Fr.  Schaeffer  &  Co., 

Landsberg  a.  W. 
Bck,  Wm.  G.    The  German  Settlement  Society  of  Philadelphia  and 

Its  Colony  Hermann,  Mo.     Americana  Germanica  Press,  Phila- 
delphia,  1907. 
Bottger,  W.     Amerikanisches  Hochschulwesen.     Leipzig.     W.  En- 

gelmann. 
Burgess,  John  W.     Germany,  Great  Britain  and  the  United  States. 

Ginn  &  Co.,  Boston. 
Dcutschcs   Export-Handbuch   filr   Brasilicn.      1906.      Pub.    Herm. . 

Paetel,  Berlin. 
Fulda,  Ludzvig.    Amerikanische  Eindriicke.    J.  G.  Cotta'sche  Buch- 

handlung  Nachfolger,  Stuttgart  und  Berlin. 

(124) 


Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  jgo6.         125 

Germanistische  Gesellschaft  dcr  Staats-Unkersitat  von  Wisconsin. 

Deutsches    Liederbuch    fiir    amcrikanische    Studenten.      D.    C. 

Heath  &  Co.,  Boston. 
Gordon,  Armistead  Churchhill.     The  Gift  of  the  Morning  Star — 

A  Story  of  Sherando. 
Handbuch  des    Deiitschtimis    im  Auslandc.     Herausgegeben  vom 

Allgemeinen  Deutschen  Schulverein  ziir  Erhaltung  des  Deutsch- 

tums   im   Auslande.      II.    Edition.      Dietrich    Reimer.      Berlin, 

1906. 
Hofer,  A.     Eine  Studienreise  nach  den  Vereinigten  Staaten.     Pro- 

gramm.     Frankfurt  a.  M. 
Knorts,  Karl.     Dentsch  in  Amerika.     C.  L.  Hirschfeld,  Leipzig. 
Korshanerct.     Kristlig  Kalender  for   1906.     Augustana  Book  Con- 
cern, Rock  Island,  111.  —  Iowa  konferensens  barnhem.  —  Jul- 

ottor  i  nordvastra  Minnesota  for  trettio  ar  sedan.  —  Minnen 

fran  borjan  af  var  kyrkliga  verksamhet  i  Red  River-dalen  och 

N.  Dakota. 
Lamprecht,  Karl.     Americana.     Hermann  Heyfelder,  Freiburg  im 

Breisgau. 
Lochcmcs,  M.  J.     Gedichte    eines    Dcutschamerikaners.       M.    H. 

Wiltzins  &  Co.,  Milwaukee. 
Meyer,  A.  B.     Amcrikanische  Bibliotheken  und  ihre  Bestrebungen. 

Friedlander,  Berlin. 
Pallet,  Ludzmg.    Schule  und  Kunst  in  Amerika.    Teubner,  Leipzig. 
Philipp,  Editard.     Die   deutsche  Auslandsschule  und  ihre  Lehrer. 

Pierson,  Dresden. 
PUster,  Albert.     Nach   Amerika   im    Dienste    Friedrich    Schillers. 

1906.    Stuttgart.    J.  G.  Cotta'sche  Buchhandlung  Nachfolger. 
Prdrieblomman.      Kalender   for    1907.      Augustana   Book   Concern, 

Rock  Island,  111.     1906.  —  Prarielif.  Svensk-amerikansk  lifsbild. 

C.  W.  Andeer.  —  Om  Esaias  Tegners  erotiska  passion.    E.  A. 

Zetterstrand.  —  Svensk-Amerikas  dag  i  Norrkoping.     Joh.  A. 

Enander.  —  Skrackdagarna  i  San  Francisco.     Ernst  Skarstedt. 

—  Om  svensk  rattstavning.     Jules  Mauritszon.  —  Nebraska- 

svenskarnas   bildnings-strafvanden.      Ett   litet    stycke    svensk- 

ameriansk  kulturhistoria.     S.   M.   Hill.  —  Tvenne   veteraner. 

— Victor  Witting.  —  Axel  Silfversparre.  —  Biografiska  teck- 

ningar.    A.  Schon. 


1 26        Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6. 

Rattcnnaiin,  H.  A.  Gesammelte  Werke.  Vol.  I  unci  II.  Pub.  by 
himself  at  Cincinnati,  O. 

Roder,  A.  Reisebiklcr  aus  Amerika.  Puttkammer  &  Miihlbrecht, 
Berlin. 

Sandzen,  Birger.  Med  Pensel  och  Penna.  Augustana  Book  Con- 
cern, Rock  Island,  111. 

Schnrc,  Karl.  —  Lebcnscrinnerungen.     Geo.  Reimer.     Berlin. 

Shadwell,  Arthur.  Industrial  Efficiency.  A  Comparative  Study  of 
Industrial  Life  in  England,  Germany  and  America.  2  volumes. 
Longmans.     London. 

Symra.  En  aarbog  for  norske  paa  begge  sider  af  havet.  1906. 
Decorah,  Iowa.)  —  Hjalmer  Hjorth  Boyesen.  M.  A.  Mikkel- 
sen.  —  Nybyggerskisser.  H.  R.  Holand.  —  Nordiske  studier 
ved  amerikanske  universiteter.  Geo.  T.  Flom.  —  Om  den 
norsk-lutherske  hoiskole  i  America.     D.  G.  Ristad. 

Thilly  and  Ellwang's  authorized  translation  of  Friedrich  Paulsen's 
The  German  Universities  and  University  Study.  Chas.  Scrib- 
ner's  Sons,  New  York. 

Wolf,  Julius.  Der  deutsch-amerikanische  Handelsvertrag,  etc. 
Gustav  Fischer,  Jena. 

ARTICLES  FOUND  IN  PERIODICALS. 

Annals  of  Iowa.    January,  1906.     The  Dunkers  in  Iowa.     John  E. 

Mohler. 
Arena.    October,  1906.     The  University  of  Berlin  and  the  Proposed 

Change  in  National  Education.     M.  Butler. 
Bcilage  der  Allgemcinm  Zcitung   (Miinchen).     January  27,   1906. 
Professor  Peabody  iiber  die  amerikanischen  Universitaten. 

January  31,   1906.     Stiftungen  des  Amerikaners  Yerkes  zu 
wisscnschaftlichen  Zwecken. 

February  11,  1906.     Professor  Peabody's  Abschied  von  Ber- 
lin. 

February  24,  1906.     Jugendfiirsorge  in  Amerika.     Berthold 
Beck. 

March  7,  1906.     Zum  Professorenaustausch. 

March  16,  1906.    Die  bisherigen  Resultate  des  Frauenstimm- 
rechts  in  Colorado.    Ernst  Schultze. 


Bibliography  of  German  Aynericana  for  the  Year  rgo6.         127 

March  20,  1906.  Eine  Fakultat  der  schonen  Kiinste  an  der 
Columbia  Universitat  in  New  York. 

March  28,  1906.    Amerikanische  Museumspolitik. 

April  7,  1906.  Ein  deutsches  Liederbuch  fiir  amerikanische 
Studenten. 

April  24  and  25,  1906.  Shakespeare  in  Amerika.  George  B. 
Churchill. 

April  27,  1906.  Das  Kunstschutzgesetz  und  die  Ver.  Staaten 
von  Amerika. 

May  8,  1906.     Ein  kanadisches  Kulturbild. 

May  30,  1906.  Zum  deutsch-amerikanischen  Professorenaus- 
tausch. 

May  31,  1906.     Die  kalifornischen  Universitaten. 

June  30,  1906.  Studentenzahl  an  den  amerikanischen  Univer- 
sitaten. 

July  8,  1906.    Karl  Schurz  als  Autobiograph. 

July  23,  1906.    Die  Einwanderung  in  die  Ver.  Staaten. 

August  23,  1906.  Die  Ausstellung  der  Geschenke  Kaiser 
Wilhelm's  in  dem  Germanischen  Museum  der  Harvard  Univer- 
sitat. 

September  12,  1906.  Die  Beitrage  der  Kongresse  von  St. 
Louis.     H.  Oldenberg. 

September  15,  1906.  Eine  akademische  Feier  in  Amerika. 
G.  E.  Karsten. 

September  28,  1906.     Kuba  und  die  Kubaner. 

October  16,  1906.    Amerikanische  Hochschulen.    W.  Bottger. 

October  22  and  November  16,  1906.     Eine  Fahrt  zum  Geo- 
logenkongress  in  Mexico.     A.  Rothpletz. 
Buckncll  Mirror.    Vol.  xxv,  No.  3.     Education  at  German  Univer- 
sities.    G.  C.  L.  Riemer. 
Columbia   University   Quarterly.     September,   1906.     Karl  Schurz. 
Nicholas  Murray  Butler. 

December,  1906.     Inaugural  Address  of  the  Kaiser  Wilhelm 
Professor.     Hermann  Schumacher. 
Contemporary  Review.     November,  1906.     Education  and  Mis-edu- 
cation in  Germany.    J.  E.  Barker. 
Cosmopolitan.     January,    1906.     Germanizing  the   World.     C.    E. 
Russel. 


1 28         Bibliography  of  German  Aviericana  for  the  Year  igo6. 

Current  Literature.    Jiil.v,  1906.    Carl  Schurz — Germany's  Best  Gift 

to  America. 
Det  Norske  Selskabs  Aarhog.     January,  1906.     Koshkonong.     Hy 

Holland. 
Deutsche  Erde.     No.  2.     1906.     Das  Deutschtiim  in  Kanada.     Al- 
win  Oppel. 

Nos.  3  and  4.  1906.  Die  Ermittelung  des  Volkstums  der 
Einwanderer  in  die  Vereinigten  Staaten.  Kin  Beitrag  zur 
Kenntniss  des  Anteils  der  Deutschen.  Richard  Bockh. 
Deutsch-Amerikanische  Geschichtshlatter.  Herausgegeben  von  der 
Deutsch-Amerikanischen  Historischen  Gesellschaft  von  Illinois. 
January,  1906.  Auf  den  Pfaden  deutsch-amerikanischer  Ge- 
schichtsforscher.  Wilhelm  Miiller.  —  Deutsch-Amerikanische 
Jubilaen.  —  Rosier  von  Oels.  G.  A.  Fritsch.  —  Offener  Brief 
an  den  Senator  Thompson  von  Kentucky.  Gustav  Adolph  Ros- 
ier. 

January  and  April,  1906.     Spitznamen  in  Amerika.     A.  R. 

January,  April,  July,  October,  1906.  Geschichte  der  Deut- 
schen Ouincy's.     Heinrich  Bornmann. 

April,  1906.  Die  Mission  der  Deutschen  als  Wandervolk  in 
der  Weltgeschichte.  Hermann  Oucken.  —  Die  Deutsch-Ameri- 
kanische Historische  Gesellschaft  von  Illinois.  —  Geschichte 
des  Townships  Saline. 

July,  1906.  Carl  Schurz.  H.  H.  Pick.  —  Carl  Schurz.  Sein 
Leben  und  Wirken.  Wilhelm  Vocke.  —  Erste  deutsche  Ansied- 
ler  von  Carroll  County,  111.  —  Deutsches  Zeitungswesen  in 
Quincy.  Heinrich  Bornmann.  —  Siebzigjahriges  Jubilaum  des 
Cincinnati  Volksblatt.  —  Todtenschau.  Heinrich  Bornmann.  — 
Carl  Schurz  Memorial  Services.  —  Carl  Schurz,  Cosmopolitan 
and  Patriot.  Benjamin  Terry.  —  Carl  Schurz,  The  German- 
American.  Harry  Rubens.  —  The  Men  of  1848  and  the  Effect 
of  Their  Immigration.  Edmund  J.  James.  —  Carl  Schurz,  the 
American  Statesman.  F.  C.  Winkler.  —  Carl  Schurz  as  a 
Moral  Force.    Charles  J.  Little. 

October,  1906.  Geschichtliches  aus  Clinton  County,  Illinois. 
Heinrich  Gramann.  —  Die  Deutschen  in  Wisconsin.  -^  Das 
deut.sche  Element  in  Kane  County  (111.).  —  Elginer  Skizzen. 
F.  C.  Kothe.  —  Etwas  vom  Deutschtum  im  Staate  Michigan. 


(5erman  Qmcrican  Qnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 

■^^  A   BI-MONTHLY   DEVOTED   TO   THE   COMPARATIVE   STUDY   OF   THE 

Historical,  Literary,  Linguistic,  Educational  and  Commercial  Relations 

OF 

Germany  and  America 


ORGAN  OF 

Thf  German  American  Historical  Society 
The  National  Gervian  American  Alliance 
The  Union  of  Old  Germati  Students  in  America 


EDITOR, 

MARION  DEXTER  LEARNED, 

University  of  Pennsylvania. 
CONTRIBUTING  EDITORS  : 


H.  C.  G.  Brandt, 

Julius  Goebel, 

Hamilton  College. 

Harvard  University. 

W.  H.  Carpenter, 

J.  T.  Hatfield, 

Columbia  University. 

Northwestern  University. 

W.  H,  Carruth, 

W.  T.  Hewett, 

University  of  Kansas. 

Cornell  University. 

Hermann  Collitz, 

A.  R.  Hohlfeld, 

Bryn  Mawr  College. 

University  of  Wisconsin. 

Starr  W.  Cutting, 

Hugo  K.  Schilling, 

University  of  Chicago. 

University  of  California. 

Daniel  K.  Dodge, 

H.  Schmidt-Wartenberg, 

University  of  Illinois. 

University  of  Chicago. 

A.  B.  Faust, 

Hermann  Schoenfeld, 

Cornell  University. 

Columbian  University. 

KuNO  Francke, 

Calvin  Thomas, 

Harvard  University. 

Columbia  University. 

Adolph  Gerber, 

H.  S.  White, 

Late     of    Earlham   College. 

Harvard  University. 

Henry  Wood,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 


New  Series,  Vol.  5.  Old  Series,  Vol.  9. 

1907. 


published  by 

THE  GERMAN  AMERICAN  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY 
Chas.  H.  Breitbarth,  Business  Manager, 

pbtladelpbia* 


3Berlf«:                          mcwlJorft:  Xefp5fflt 

MAYER  &  MOLLER               CARL  A.  STERN  F.  A.  BROCKHAUS 

ILonDon:  parts: 

KEGAN.  PAUL  TRENCH.  TROBXKR  8:  CO.,  Ltd.  H.  LeSOUDIER 


(Scrman  Qmcrican  Clnnals 

CONTINUATION  OP  THB  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


New  Series,  May  and  June  Old  Series, 

Vol.  V.     No.   3.  1907.  Vol.   IX.     No.   3. 

FRANCIS  DANIEL  PASTORIUS. 

The  Founder  of  Germantown. 
By  Marion  Dexter  Learned. 

(Copyrighted.    All  rights  reserved.) 

Chapter  I. 

Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  the  founder  of  Germantown,  the 
first  permanent  German  colony  in  North  America,  was  born  in 
Sommerhausen,  Franconia,  September  20,  1651,  three  years 
after  the  close  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War.  He  was  the  scion 
of  a  distinguished  German  family,  whose  history  reflects  the 
vicissitudes  of  the  fierce  religious  strife  of  the  times  of  Gustavus 
Adolphus,  Tilly  and  Wallenstein.  The  wounds  of  the  war  w^ere 
still  unhealed  and  the  bitterness  of  the  strife  still  lingered  in 
the  adherents  of  the  Catholic  and  Protestant  cause,  severing  in 
the  same  family  the  strongest  ties  of  kinship  and  blood. 

The  family  of  Pastorius  seems  to  have  been  one  of  the  many 
whose  names  were  Latinized  under  the  influence  of  humanism. 
The  Latin  form  Pastorius  w'ould  point  to  an  original  German 
Schafer  or  Hirt  or  some  combination  of  one  of  these  names.  It 
seems  not  unlikely  that  the  German  name  had  a  longer  form. 
A  persistent  tradition  in  Franconia  connects  the  family  of 
Hiigelschdifer  with  that  of  Pastorius,  deriving  the  former  from 
the  latter.  It  seems  far  more  likely,  however,  that  Pastorius  is 
a  Latinized  form  of  an  original  Hiigclsclmffcr.  This  would  har- 
monize with  the  fact  that  the  name  HiigclscMffer  appears  in  the 
records  of  an  early  period  in  other  places  and  this  family  has 

(131) 


132  Francis  Daniel  Pastoritcs 

the  same  coat-of-arms  as  Pastorius.  But  this  subject  belongs 
to  the  genealogist  rather  than  the  historian  or  biographer.^ 

Two  branches  of  the  Pastorius  family  were  prominent  in 
Germany  in  the  seventeenth  century,  one  in  Silesia  and  the 
other  in  Westphalia,  Thurinigia  and  Franconia.  It  is  with 
the  latter  branch  that  this  work  has  chiefly  to  deal. 

The  Silesian  branch  of  the  family  is  represented  in  the  sev- 
enteenth century  by  Joachim  Pastorius,  who  was  born  at  Glogau 
in  Silesia  Sept.  20,  1611,^  and  died  at  Frauenberg  in  Prussia 
Dec.  26,  1 68 1.  He  was  the  son  of  a  parson  and  was  reared 
in  the  doctrines  of  Socinus.  He  was  a  "Doctor  medicinae"  and 
distinguished  for  his  writings  on  Polish  history. 

Joachim  Pastorius  was  made  "Stadtphysicus"  of  Elbing 
and  in  165 1  Professor  of  History  at  the  Gymnasium  in  that 
place.  In  1652  he  became  Rector  of  the  Gymnasium.  Having 
gone  over  to  the  Lutheran  Church,  he  took  up  his  duties  as 
Professor  of  History  in  Dantzig,  January  28,  1655.  He  was 
made  Historicus  Regius  in  1656,  and  was  named  "Indigenat" 
by  the  Polish  Diet  m  1662  and  took  the  title  "ab  Hirtenberg." 
In  1665  he  was  made  "Secretarius  Regius,"  but  resigned  his 
post  and  went  over  to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  Although 
married  he  received  high  offices  in  the  Catholic  Church,  having 


1  It  is  fitting  to  quote  in  this  connection  a  letter  of  the  Rev.  S.  Hanss- 
leiter  to  C.  Sharpless  Pastoiiur,  in  Florence,  dated  Sommerhausen,  February 
2.  1S88:  "Die  bier  (wahrscheinlich  durch  Vermuthung  des  HE  Pf.  Hof- 
mann)  verbreitete  A.nsicht,  dass  die  hier  ansassige,  geachtete  Familie  Hiigel- 
schafifer  —  welche  friiher  im  Besitze  des  oben  erwahnten  Hauses  [welches  von 
M.  A.  Pastorius  im  Jahre  1655  erbaut  wurde]  gewesen  ist,  und  wohl  seitdem 
ein  ahnliches  Familicnzeichen  fiihrt — directe  Nachkommen  von  Pastorius 
seien,  die  mit  Verdeutschung  des  Namens  hier  geblieben  seien,  entbehrt  dcr 
urkundlichen  Begriindung.  und  jeder  Wahrscheinlichkeit,  da  erwiesener- 
massen  der  Name  Hiigelschaffer  in  friiher  Zeit  schon  in  anderen  Dorfern 
vorkommt,  von  welchen  vielmehr  die  hiesige  Familie  dieses  Namens  aus- 
gegangen   ist." 

2  Or  in  1610,  according  to  other  authorities  (cf.  Michaud,  Biographic 
Universelle). 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  133 

been  Vicar  General  of  Pomerellen  and  Canon  of  Frauenberg'. 
His  extensive  History  of  Poland  was  finished  and  published  by 
his  son,  Georg  Adam  Pastorius,  after  his  death.  The  following 
works  were  published  from  his  pen : 

1.  Joachimi  Pastorii  Florus  Polonicus  ]  seu  |  Polonicge  Historiae 
Epitome  Nova  |  Lvgd.  Batavor.  |  Apud  Franciscum  Hegerum 
Ao  1641. 

The  second  addition  appeared  in  1642  with  the  following 
title : 

2.  Fieri  Polonici  |  seu  |  Polonicse  Historae  |  Epitome  Nova  |  Au- 
thore  I  loachimo  Pastorio.  |  Editio  secunda  |  a  mendis  repur- 
gata.  I  Lvgd.  Batavor.  |  Apud  Franc.  Hegervm,  ]  Ann. 
MDCXLII.     120. 

The  title-page  of  the  second  edition  has  a  woodcut  repre- 
senting the  pelican  feeding  her  young  (as  old  tradition  falsely 
had  it)  from  her  own  blood,  an  emblem  w^hich  is  found  also  on 
the  tombstone  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  in  the  St.  Johannes 
Kirchhof  at  Niirnberg. 

Another  enlarged  edition  appeared  at  Amsterdam,  1664,  and 
even  a  copy  of  a  fifth  edition  with  a  continuation  was  published 
("Gedani  et  Francofurti")   in  1679. 

3.  Joachimi  Pastorii  ....  Heroes  Sacri,  Musa  Peregrinans. 
Flos  Poloniffi,  et  Epigrammata  Varia.  120.  Daniel  Vetter: 
Lesnas  Polon.     [1644.] 

Second,  corrected  and  enlarged  edition  with  the  addition 
of  his  "Character  Virtutum"  Danzig,  1653,  12  mo. 

4.  Aulicus  inculpatus.  Ex  Gallico  auctoris  anonymi  [Eustache 
de  Refuge]  traductus  a  J.  Pastorio.  Apud  L.  Elzevirium: 
Amsterdami,  1644.     120.     [Another  edition  in  1649.] 

5.  Peplum  Sarmaticum.     Dantisci,  1645. 

6.  Aquilse  Sarmaticae  super  Augustis  Nuptiis  Johanni  Casimiri 
Applausus.     1649. 


134  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

7.  Bellum  Scythico-Cosacicum  seu  de  conjuratione  Tartarum  Co- 
sacorum  et  Plebis  Russicoe  contra  regnum  Poloniae  ab  invictis- 
simo  Poloniai  et  SuecicE  Rege  J.  Casimiro  profligata,  narratio 
plenioris  historiae  operi  praemissa.  Sumptibus  G.  Forsteri :  Dan- 
tisci.     1652-1659.    40. 

8.  De  juventutis  institutionis  ratione.     Dantzig,  1653. 

9.  Palaestra  Nobilium.     1654. 

10.  Vita  J.  Crellii  a  J[oachimo]  P[astorio]  M[edicin3e]  D[octore] 
descripta.    1656  fol. 

11.  Stella  Aurea,  seu  fax  virtutis  ex  natura  stellarum  accensa. 
Dantisci.     [1656.]    80. 

12.  Sylvarum  pars  prima  1656,  pars  secunda  1657. 

13.  J.  Pastorii  Orationes  duae.  Quarum  prima  .  .  .  de  praecipuis 
historiae  autoribiis,  altera  de  potissimis  eiusdem  argumentis  agit. 
Gedani  [1656].    40, 

14.  Panegyrica  Gratulatio  .  .  .  Carolo  II  .  .  .  Londini  festivitate 
solennissima  inaugurando  scripta  a  J.  Pastorio.  Gedani,  1661. 
40. 

15.  Ministri  status,  seu  considerationes  super  vita  Nicolai  Neovilli. 
Jena,  1644.     [Translation  of  the  Remm  ques  of  P.  Matthieu.] 

16.  Historia  Polonica  ab  obitu  Uladislai  IV,  usque  ad  annum  1651. 
Dantisci,  1680-1685.  [Vol.  II  published  by  his  son,  Georg 
Adam  Pastorius,  closing  with  a  dissertation  on  "De  Originibus 
Sarmaticis."] 

17.  Joachimi  de  Hirtenberg  Pastorii  Character  Virtutum  variis, 
aliorum  etiam  qua  veterum,  qua  recentium  auctorum,  coloribus 
adumbratus  [ist  edition,  Dantzig,  1650,  and  4th  edition,  with 
the  appendix :  "Opusculum,  Lucem  Virtutem  et  natura  stellarum 
explicans,  &c."  [Gratulatio  paregorica  ...  ad  Regem  Joan- 
nem  Casimirum,  etc.,  pp.  36-80.  D.  F.  Rhetius,  Dantisci 
[1680].      80. 

18.  J.  ab  Hirtenberg  Pastorii  Historiae  Polonae  pars  prior,  de  Vlad- 
islai  IV  extremis,  secutoque  inde  interregno,  et  Joannis  Casimiri 
electione  ac  coronatione.  Interserta  Cosacorum  et  Tartaricae 
simul  gentis  descriptio,  etc.  Typis  T.  Reinigeri :  Gedani,  1680. 
So. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  135 

19.  J.  Pastorii  ab  Hirtenberg  Historic  Polonse  plenioris  partes 
duse:  cjusdemque  disscrtatio  pbilologica  de  originibus  Sarmati- 
cis.    Sumptibus  S.  Beckensteinii:  Dantisci,  1685.    80. 

20.  Aurora  pacis :  Diarium  pacificationis  Olivensis,  ex  Bibliotheca 

Zalusciana  nunc  primum  prolatum,  Oliva  pacis. 

21.  Acta  pacis  Olivensis  inedita.  Breslau,  1763  and  1766.  [Pub- 
lished by  J.  Gottlob  Boehm.] 

Other  minor  works  are  mentioned  in  Chr.  Sandius'  Bibliogra- 
phia  Anti-Trinitariorum. 

Although  neither  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  nor  his  son 
Francis  Daniel  seems  to  have  been  aware  of  any  relationship 
between  Joachim  and  themselves,  there  are  striking  coincidences 
in  the  history  of  the  families  which  point  to  the  kinship  of  the 
Silesian  and  Westphalian-Thuringian  branches  of  the  Pastorius 
family.  The  use  of  the  pelican  emblem  has  already  been  men- 
tioned. The  title  "ab  Hirtenberg"  of  Joachim  Pastorius  is 
closely  allied  to  the  baronial  title  "von  Hirtenfels"  which  the 
German  Emperor  conferred  upon  Johann  Augustin  Pastorius, 
brother  of  Melchoir  Adam  Pastorius  of  the  Thuringian  line. 
Both  titles  indicate  a  compound  form  of  the  name  in  the  original 
German.  Now  the  coat-of-arms,  as  found  on  the  datestone 
of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius'  house  in  Sommerhausen  and  handed 
down  in  the  Hiigelschaffer  family  of  the  same  place  has  a 
sheep  pasturing  on  one  of  three  hills,  which  would  suggest  the 
"berg"  in  "ab  Hirtenberg"  and  the  "fels"  in  "von  Hirtenfels," 
and  thus  lend  a  new  presumption  in  favor  of  the  theory  of  the 
connection  of  "Pastorius"   and  "Hiigelschaffer." 

In  his  brief  account  of  the  family  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 
begins  with  his  great  grandfather  Christian  Pastorius,  a  citizen 
of  Warburg  m  Westphalia.  This  baptismal  name  Christian, 
however,  does  not  agree  with  the  account  of  Melchior  Adam 
Pastorius.  who  gives  the  name  of  his  grandfather  as  Fridericus 
not  Christianus.  It  is  possible,  but  not  very  probable,  that  his 
name  may  have  been  Christianus  Fridericus  or  Fridericus  Chris- 


136  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

tianus.    Melchior  Adam  gives  the  following  account  of  the  origin 

of  his  family : 

"Origo  Familins  Pastorianse  ex  Ciutate  Warburgensi  Wcstpha- 
liai  prouenit,  Vbi  Fridericus  Pastorius  Ciuis  et  Senator  erecto  animo 
uixit,  et  filiu  unicum  r^Iartinum  progenuit,  ac  post  se  reliquit." 

Having  thus  traced  the  Westphalian  origin  of  the  family 
and  added  an  anagram,  he  continues: 

"Obijt  Warburgi  in  Westphalia,  ibidemque  apud  parentes  ct 
praedecessores  sepultus  Anno  Christi.  1640.  postquam  filium  Marti- 
num  Pastorium  in  Literis  et  liberalibus  artibus  bene  educasset,  et  in 
Vniversitate  Moguntinensi  in  lure  lustinianaeo  imbui  fecisset." 

Martinus  Pastorius,  the  son  of  Fridericus,  was  born  m  1576, 
and,  after  finishing  his  eduation  m  liberal  arts  and  the  study  of 
the  Justinian  Code  at  Mainz,  he  took  up  his  residence  in  the 
city  of  Erfurt  and  was  made  Tribunal  Assessor  (or  Assessor 
of  the  Electoral  Council)  in  that  city.  He  married  as  his  first 
wife  Eva  Rodiger,^  who  bore  hmi  one  son  Caspar.  His  second 
wife,  Brigatta  Flinsberger  (or  Flinsberg),  bore  him  six  chil- 
dren— Alargaretha,  (Johann)  Augustin,  Hemrich,  Rebecca,  Mel- 
chior Adam,  Balthasar. 

When  the  Swedes,  under  Gusta\us  Adolphus,  entered  the 


3  There  is  a  discrepancy  between  Melchior  Adam's  account  and  that  of 
his  son,  Francis  Daniel,  at  this  point.  Melchior  Adam  mentions  only  his 
own  mother  Martin's  second  wife,  while  Francis  Daniel  states  clearly  that 
Martin  married  Eva  Rodiger,  as  his  first  wife : 

"I  shall  only  tell  them  [my  children],  that  he  [Martin]  was  twice  mar- 
ried, that  his  first  wife,  Eve  Rodigers,  brought  him  a  son  called  Caspar, 
who  became  a  Popish  priest  and  so  a  voluntary  Eunuch,  and  of  his  second 
wife  Bridget  (Brigida),  a  daughter  of  Christian  Flinsberger,  inhabitant  of 
the  Imperial  city  of  Mulhausen,  in  Thuringen,  he  had  six  children,  viz., 
Augustin,  Margaret,   Henry,   Rebecca,   Melchior   Adam   and   Balthasar". 

Melchior  Adams'  account  in  Itincrarium    (p.  in),  runs  thus: 

Martinus  Pastorius  Assessor  Tribunalis  siue  ludicij  Archiepiscopalis 
Moguntinensis  in  Ciuitate  Erffurtensi.  Natus  Anno  1576.  Duxit  uxorem 
Brigittam  Flinsbergerin  ex  qua  progenuit  sequentes  Liberos :  Casparum,  Mar- 
garetham,  Angustinum,  Henricu,  Rebecca,  Melchiorem  Adamum,  Et  Bal- 
thasarum." 


JV1ELCH103U5  AVAMl  VASrom 

,  'EKTrvjcrzHsis 
ITINERARIVW 

^xinaj^Si's   Ac^i^nurTL-. 

fdiyes  "UY^CS   t>(.'Yfu3-fro-u,i, 

i  iinm.aYi'^cros^  X)i-fo.u\, 

>^  "y/CYX-foJcr^    inclMtKUi.^ 

Ditm  m  i-ayf    (eStiY<K.ui^ 


Title  Page. — Manuscript. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  137 

city  of  Erfurt  in  the  time  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War,  Martinus 
Pastorius'  "several  houses  therein  with  all  his  goods"  were 
burned  in  one  night  and  he  set  out  from  the  city  to  seek  pro- 
tection of  the  Elector  of  Mainz.  He  sought  shelter  for  the 
night  "in  a  barn  under  some  straw,"  in  a  village  occupied 
by  Swedish  soldiers,  but  was  betrayed  by  his  own  servant 
to  the  Swedes,  who  inflicted  such  severe  wounds  with  their  bare 
swords  that  he  died  a  few  days  later,  leaving  his  widow  and  her 
six  children  in  dire  destitution.  Melchior  Adam  ^  and  Francis 
DanieF  have  both  left  us  a  graphic  description  of  the  event. 

Thus  in  one  brief  night  the  family  was  bereft  of  hearth 
and  home.  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  speaks  of  his  grandfather 
Martin  as  "a  man  of  good  estate,'  and  Melchior  Adam  describes 
the  home  in  Erfurt  as  "opulenta  domus"  in  some  verses  in 
memory  of  his  father: 

"Diripet  inde  domum  miles,  spoliatque  Penates 
Inque  atrum  Nati  trudimur  Exilium 
O  si  mansisses  forsan  superesses  et  ipse 
Et  superesset  adhuc  nostra  opulenta  domus. "^ 

Brigitta  Pastorius  was  the  daughter  of  Christian  von  Flins- 
berg,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Imperial  City  of  Miihl- 
hausen  in  Saxony,^  a  man  experienced  in  practical  as  well  as 
military  affairs,  having  taken  part  in  a  campaign  against  the 
Turks.     Melchior  Adam  dedicated  to  him  the  following  verses: 


4  In  his  Itincrarium  (p.  nib):  "Adventante  Gustauo  Adolpho  Rege 
Suecie  conabatur  hie  Martinus  se  fuga  subducere  Erffurto  et  Moguntiam  ad 
Archiepiscopum  conferre,  ut  hospitationcm  militnm  euadcret,  sed  in  itinere 
in  prato  a  militibus  intcrccptus  horrcndnm  in  modum  vcrberatus,  spoliatus  et 
vestibus  exutus  nudus  domum  redijt,  ct  vuhieribus  interijt." 

5  In  the  Genealogical  Sketch  (Beehive,  p.  22iff). 

6  In  his  Itinerarium,  p.  112a. 

"^  Ibid:  "Diser  Brigitt;e  Vatter  war  Christians  uon  FHnsberg  des  Raths 
in  der  Reichs  Statt  Miihlhausen  in  Sachsen." 


138  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

"Nit  Hochgclehrt  in  Kiinsten  zwar 

Ich  Christian  gestigen  war, 

Doch  ziemlich  in  der  Welt  uersucht 

In  Fried  und  auch  in  Krieges  Zucht. 

Ein  Tiircken  Zug  ich  stimde  aus 

Drauff  ruhig  lebt  in  meinem  Haus 

In  Gottesforcht  ohn  Heiichel  schein 

Und  that  auch  guths  dem  ncchsten  mein." 

Brigitta's  memory  was  fondly  cherished  by  her  son  Mel- 
chior  Adam  as  well  as  by  her  grandson  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius. 
The  former  dedicated  some  German  verses^  to  her  and  the  latter 
this  touching  paragraph : 

"His  [Martinus']  poor  Widow  (my  Grand-mother)  lived  sev- 
eral years  after  his  Decease,  however  destitute  of  all  outward  means 
to  do  much  for  her  Six  Orphans:  When  my  Father  [Melchior  Adam 
Pastorius]  at  his  going  to  the  University  bade  her  Fare  well,  she 
could  give  him  but  one  Ducat  (or  two  pieces  of  Eight)  besides  her 
good  Blessing,  neither  did  he  ever  get  more  (no  not  a  farthing)  of 
all  his  patrimony,  which  made  him  the  oft'ner  remember  the  great 
Vertue  or  Efficacy  of  a  Ducat  given  by  a  well  wishing  Mother."^ 

The  eldest  son  Casparus  Pastorius  entered  the  service  of 
the  Catholic  Church  and  became  curate  of  the  town  of  Bingen 
on  the  Rhine,  as  we  learn  from  Melchior  Adam  his  brother, 
who  wrote  some  distichs  to  him  and  left  a  brief  notice  of  him 
in  prose."^^ 

Joannes  Augustinus  Pastorius,  the  second  son  of  Martinus, 
finished  the  course  in  philosophy  at  Mamz,  presenting  his  theses 
in  June,  1631,  and  then  went  to  Rome,  where  he  took  the  degree 

8  Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.    112a. 

0  Cf.  F.  D.  P.'s  Genealogical  Skctcli  (Beehive,  p.  221  ff),  and  the  Bc- 
sclircibmig. 

If  Cf.  Itincrarmm,  p.  112b:  "Erat  iste  Casparus  Sacerdos  Curatus  siue 
Parochus  Oppidi  Bingcnsis  infra  Moguntiam  (  :  nit  weith  uon  dem  Maus 
Thurn:)  dumque  inibi  contra  pctulantiam  Vcneficarum  siue  strigarum  acrius 
concinnarctur,  Vna  post  pcractum  Sacramentum  Riptismatis  in  Conuiuio  ipsi 
haustum  vini  venenati  porrexit,  quo  sumpto.  illico  male  habere  cepit,  et 
domum  redicns  intra  paucos  dies  expirauit.  Et  dixerat  hace  Saga :  ich  habe 
dem  Herrchen  eins  bracht,  er  wird  nit  uiel  mehr  predigen." 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  I39 

Juris  Utriusque  Doctor,  and  was  made  "Protho  Notarius  Apos- 
tolicus."!^  He  seems  also  to  have  been  a  "Licentiatus  in  Theol- 
gia."^-  July  7,  1647,  Elector  Philipp  Christoph  von  Zoteren  ^^ 
gave  him  the  'Trccpositur"  of  Gmiinden,  and  July  28,  1658, 
Elector  Johann  Georg  II  of  Saxony  made  him  Historiographer 
of  the  Royal  Family  and  Keeper  of  the  Royal  Arms  (Rex  Ar- 
morum).  In  1660  we  find  him  called  "Principis  Holsatise  Can- 
cellarius  Oblegatus." 

In  his  capacity  as  Notarius  at  Rome  in  the  service  of  the 
Elector  of  Mainz  and  other  princes  he  acquired  great  wealth, 
having  received  from  the  Emperor  the  baronial  title  of  Augustin 
von  Hirtenfels  and  an  estate  in  Hungary  in  recognition  of  his 
services.  He  was  an  influential  and  zealous  Catholic  and  remained 
a  celibate. ^^  His  jealous  zeal  for  the  faith  of  his  family  is 
attested  by  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  in  the  incident  in  which  he 
relates  that  his  uncle  Johann  Augustin  came  with  a  "couple  of 
fiery  Jesuits"  to  Sommerhausen  to  win  back  his  brother  Mel- 
chior  Adam  from  the  Evangelical  faith  to  the  Catholic  Church. ^^ 

The  following  works  were  published  under  his  name: 

1.  Der  europaische  neue  teutsche  Florus  [published  partly  in 
Frankfurt  a,  M.  and  partly  in  Vienna].     1659-1661. 

2.  Scharfsinniger  Adler,  mit  der  europaischen  Fieri  historici  Con- 
tinuation. Von  alien  denckwiirdigen  Geschichten,  &c.  Pp.  465. 
Franckfurth,  1659.^^ 


11  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  devotes  to  him  also  some  distichs 
and  gives  the  folloviring  notice  of  him  in  the  Itincrarium,  p.  113b.  "loannes 
Augustinus  Martini  Pastorij  secundo  gcnitus  filius  Moguntiae  Philosophiam 
absoluit  iuxta  Theses  impressas  mense  lunio  Anno  1631.  Inde  Romam  se 
contulit  ubi  peractis  Studijs.  luris  Vtriusque  Doctor  promotus  et  Protho 
Notarius  Apostolicus  creatus  est." 

12  Cf.  F.  D.  P.'s  Genealogical  Sketch. 

13  Ibidem. 

14  Cf.  Allgcmcinc  Deutsche  Biograt^hic,    sub  nomine. 

15  Cf.  F.  D.  P.'s  Beschreibung. 

16  Titles  from  the  Catalogue  of  Printed  Books  in  the  British  Museum. 


140  Francis  Daniel  Pastor  ius 

3.  J.  Pastorii  ....  Gratiilatio  sub  ipsiim  Academise  [at  Kiel] 
natalem  scripta.  [See  Torquatus  A.  Frangipani  Auspice  D.  T. 
O.  M.  .    .    .  Academise,  &c.]     1665.     Folio. ^"^ 

The  other  work  Romischcr  Adlcr,  which  Schnorr  von  Carols- 
feld  erroneously  attributed  to  (Johannes)  Augustin  Pastorius, 
is  by  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius,  his  brother,  as  will  be  seen  later. 

The  eldest  daughter  of  Martin  Pastorius,  Margaretha,  kept 
house  for  her  older  brother  Casparus  until  his  death  and  then 
married  a  "chirurgus  of  Ellfeldt"  near  Bingen,  but  died  at  the 
birth  of  her  first  child,  a  daughter.  Melchior  Adam,  her  younger 
brother,  has  left  us  some  very  touching  German  verses  in  mem- 
ory of  her.  The  first  four  of  these  verses  describe  the  perils 
of  wedded  life: 

"Vermahlet  sein,  ist  so  ein  Sach 
Die  nach  sich  zeiicht  uiel  Weh  und  Ach 
Gebahren  bringt  der  Schmertzen  uiel, 
la,  manchmal  gar  des  Todes  Ziel."^'^ 

The  third  son,  Henricus  Pastorius,  served  as  a  soldier  under 
the  Dukes  of  Liineburg,  but  died  at  the  early  age  of  twenty-five 
years.  The  only  information  we  have  found  concerning  him 
is  that  given  by  Melchior  Adam,^^  his  brother. 

The  modest  Rebecca,  who  entered  the  cloister  at  Erfurt 
and  became  a  "harmless  nun,"  is  mentioned  by  her  only  brother 
Melchior  Adam,  who  dedicated  an  anagram  to  her,  together  with 
a  few  lines  of  Latin.     The  anagram  runs: 

"En  Crvcis  Ista  Proba. 

ElA  ROBVR  IN    PeCCATIS." 


10  Titles  from  the  Catalogue  of  Printed  Books  in  the  British  Museum. 

1"  In  his  Itinerarium,  p.  113a. 

18  In  his  Itinerarium,  p.    114a: 

Henricus  Martini  Pastorij  tertio  genitus  filius  Martiale  caput,  sub 
Ducibus  Luneburgiacis  miles  conscriptus,  rei  Tormentariae  seruijt,  in  conflictu 
antem  Tormenti  globo  tactus  praemature  interijt  annum  uix  complens  vige- 
simu  quintum."  ■  -fir0^ 


Odci- 

T   H  E   A   T  R   y    M 


EI_rECTIONIS 

ET  GORONATIONIS 

ROMANO- C/ESARE/E, 

3'nfcvif ircnh'ii  f2^f}cn  ^umH '  fcxfcnm. 

3»  ?H'ci) 'c(id(  rcpi-afciititt 

©abci)  iu  fc8cn/n\i$  fo  n^ol  311.165-3.  in  ^cnt  (ci.;fcrcn  Ovcicbe^  V3c\hp 

■O  T T  o  N  i  s  I.  iMif  C  A  n  o  1 1  V.  flunpf  bm^n  l^ff  jhuc 
crtijci' ten  oil;  :i !'/>£":  tiuimcn  f'lrs' v^jti^cn: 

^cncf'cne?  jc.t<c^  Stanbit  ScfTion  i^n^  i>\ciuH^  M.uricul,  andj  t^cc 

Capiiulanon  ,  ii>it' |ofd}c  jcfiO  jm -Oi\iitCi^- 

STEMMATA,  ORIGINES,  SYMBOLA,  /ETA- 

TES,INTEKREGNA,PATRL^.,CORON  VTIOKES,, 

R£S     GEST.f^  ,   OCITUS  ,    ET    SrPUl.YUrv-t 

©c^  ^ann  a^cr  ^Hltlisljcn  (^hurfuvftcp.  vomCijvfccn  [mj^  ?u  jc(?ntcv  3ct(^. 

Gompcndiosc.'i.'f:  H  a  r  x  m  a  n  n  o  A'  a  u  r  o  vn'o.'.i  i^.'.n  b.T.'cbitciJ  Au£horcn> 

:euni)  M.  AJPASTOKUIM  J.    V.   D. 
, -  2(»d?K(:;:  iU?p^^l■i!^^"-^'■'^''''•■f• 

.    3n >Bcr(c^tm>3(55ccrj5SiffitMi^eo/ ^ucr>(>anMcrv/ 


AiNNO  :<:.    DC,   LV.:i. 


Title  Page. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  141 

Her  nephew,  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  relates  a  touching 
story  of  his  first  and  only  meeting  with  her,  as  he  passed  through 
Erfurt  on  his  way  to  Jena : 

"Mine  Aunt  Rebecca  I  saw  when  I  passed  through  Erford 
towards  Jena.  One  Mr.  Winter,  an  ancient  Canonicus  of  the  Cathe- 
dral in  the  sd  City  of  Erford,  sending  for  her  out  of  the  Cloister 
wherein  she  lived  to  his  dwelling  house,  where  he  among  many 
pretty  discourses  also  admired  the  great  difference  of  the  Sundry 
Gifts  which  God  bestows  upon  his  Creatures;  For,  said  he,  Augus- 
tin  Pastorius  in  deed  received  Five  Talents,  as  appears  by  his  extra- 
ordinary Writings,  (shewing  unto  me  the  Reichs  Adler  and  other 
books  by  him  published,)  Melchior  Adam  but  two,  and  this  harm- 
less Nun  (pointing  to  my  sd  Aunt)  hardly  one,  &c.  And  really 
she  looked  to  be  extreme  Jnnocent  &  if  not  meriting  Heaven  through 
her  self -conceited  good  works,  I  thought  it  would  be  a  pity  she 
should  deserve  hell."^^ 

In  discussmg  the  two  youngest  sons,  Melchior  Adam  and 
B'althasar  Pastorius,  our  interest  centres  about  the  former,  as 
little  more  than  the  name  is  known  of  Balthasar. 


Melchior  Adam  Pastorius. 

The  life  and  writings  of  Melchoir  Adam  Pastorius  shed 
much  important  light  upon  the  career  and  works  of  his  son 
Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  the  subject  of  our  study,  justifying  the 
detail  of  this  chapter. 

Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  was  born  in  Erfurt,  Sept.  22, 
1624,  and  received  his  early  education  in  his  native  city.  Hav- 
ing finished  his  study  of  the  ''humaniora"  he  left  Erfurt  Sept. 
3,  1643,  to  enter  the  University  of  Wiirzburg.  In  the  account-" 
of  his  travels  he  has  left  us  the  names  of  those  nearest  to  him  in 
Erfurt  in  the  following  distichs : 


19  The  Genealogical  Sketch. 

20  The  Latin  title  is :  Melchioris  Adami  Pastorii  |  Erffvrtensis  |  Itinera- 
rivm  1  et  |  Vitae  Cvrricvlvs  (quoted  as  Itinerarium). 


142  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

"Hi  sunt  quos  charos  mihi  Patria  iunxerat  olim 

Dresanus,  Roland,  Dorstius  Hunger,  Aper 
Demar,  Riess.  Fleischmann,  lunemann,  lunckerque,  Weserque 

Mente  alij  dudum  iam  cecidere  meo. 
Guam  bene  vixerimus  sub  eodem  sidere  nati, 

Praeceptor  Dunhos  carmine  testis  erat. 
Testis  erat  Petri  Mons,  quern  defendimis  vna 

Contra  oppugnantes  quotquot  adusque  forent."-^ 

Among-  his  other  farewell  reminiscences  of  Erfurt  are  to 
be  found  a  poem  in  praise  of  Thuringia  and  the  city  of  Erfurt 
"Encomium  Thuringiae  et  Vrbis  patriae  ErfTurtensis"  in  distichs, 
and  another  entitled  "Materna  Dimissio,  Et  omnis  felicitatis  ap- 
precatio  ad  Melchiorem  Adamum  Pastorium  cum  absolutis  studijs 
humanioribus  Erffurto  ad  Academias  progrederetur,  die  3  Sept., 
1643,"  I'ecalling  the  parting  words  of  his  mother. 

As  it  turned  out,  his  journey  to  Wiirzburg  was  but  the  pre- 
lude of  a  still  longer  journey  to  Switzerland,  Rome,  Vienna  and 
Paris,  during  a  period  of  six  years.  The  description  of  these 
travels  ("Itmeris  Descriptio")  is  full  of  the  most  interesting 
detail,  rivalling  the  classical  autobiography  of  Thomas  Platter. -- 
The  full  text  is  well  worthy  of  publication,  but  a  bare  synopsis 
only  can  be  given  here.  The  itinerary  led  from  Erfurt  to  Eichs- 
feld,  where  he  visited  the  Mons  Adjutorii,  the  famous  abode  of 
a  demon,  according  to  a  legend  going  back  to  the  time  of  St. 
Boniface;  to  Gotha,  where  he  saw  Schloss  Friedensstein ;  to 
Fulda,  where  he  visited  the  splendid  cathedral  with  its  hundreds 
of  bells  and  cymbals ;  to  Frankfurt-on-the-Main,  where  he  saw 
the  beautiful  stone  bridge  over  the  Main  to  Sachsenhausen  and 
heard  the  story  of  the  "Pfeiffer  Gericht,''  which  he  describes;  to 
Mainz,  the  home  of  Gutenburg,  the  inventor  of  printing,  to  whom 
he  devotes  a  few  distichs,  and'the  seat  of  the  cruel  Bishop  Hatto; 


21  The  poem  is  entitled:  "De  Bonis  Amicis  |  Melchioris  Adami  Pastorii  | 
In  diuersis  Munda  Partibus  |  repertis  |   lO.     De  Patriotis  Erflfurtensibus." 

22  Cf.    Thomas  Platter's    Selbstbiographic. .   Hrsg.    von    Henrich    Boos, 
Leipzig,  1878. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  143 

to  Aschaffenburg,  the  residence  of  the  Elector,  by  way  of  Frank- 
furt and  Hagenau,  on  through  the  Spessart  by  way  of  VVertheim 
and  the  monastery  Triffenstein  to  Wiirzburg,  where  he  found 
the  Canon  Phihpp  von  Ried,  whom  his  brother  Johann  Augustin 
as  Resident  of  the  Elector  of  Trier  at  Rome  had  aided  in  his 
suits  against  Anselmus  Casmiirus,  the  Archbishop  of  Mainz. 
The  Canon  received  him  kindly  and  gave  him  permission  to 
take  up  the  study  of  philosophy  at  the  University  of  Wiirzburg. 
At  this  juncture  in  the  itinerary  he  interjects  distichs  m 
honor  of  Philipp  von  Ried  and  the  following  epitome  of  his  own 
career  and  aspirations : 

"Erffurt  me  genuit,  docuitque  fideliter  artes 
Addidit  artipotens  Flerbipolis  Sophiam 
Post  Sophias  studium  prseceps  me  confero  Romam 
Visurus  quicquid  continet  ilia  boni."^^ 

When  the  summons  was  issued  to  the  conclave  to  elect  a 
new  successor  to  Pope  Urban,  who  died  Aug.  29,  1644,  Carolus 
Rosetti,  Apostolic  Nuncius  of  Cologne,  who  had  but  recently  been 
made  cardinal,  set  out  from  Cologne  for  Italy,  stopping  over  at 
the  Prince's  residence  at  Wiirzburg.  Philipp  von  Ried  took  Pas- 
torius to  Prince  Johann  Philipp  von  Schonborn,  and  both  pre- 
sented him  to  the  cardinal  and  recommended  that  he  study  seven 
years  without  tuition  at  the  German  College  in  Rome.  Pastorius 
accordingly  accompanied  the  Cardinal  on  his  way  to  Rome. 

The  description  of  the  journey  is  given  with  rich  and 
interesting  details.  From  Wiirzburg  they  went  to  Kitzingen, 
spending  the  night  at  the  monastery ;  thence  by  way  of  Neustadt- 
on-the-Aisch  to  Emskirchen,  where  they  had  a  poor  dinner;  to 
Niirnberg,  where  they  were  guests  at  the  German  Court  and 
saw  the  relics  of  the  Hospitalkirche,  the  Castle  and  the  City 
Hall;  thence  by  way  of  Schwabach  and  Gmiind  to  the  German 
House  in  Oettingen  by  way  of  Pappenheim  and  Monnheim  to 


23  In  the  Itincrarium,  p.  12a. 


144  Fyancis  Daniel  Pastor ius 

Donamvert;  thence  by  way  of  Wesendorf  and  Obernhausen  to 
Augsburg.  A  half  hour  out  of  Obernhausen  they  met  two 
wagons  laden  with  straw.  The  wagons  halted  on  each  side  of 
the  Cardinal's  coach  and  twenty  peasants  crept  out  of  the  straw 
with  rakes,  pitchforks  and  flails,  and  gave  the  Cardinal  a  vocal 
serenade.  Then  throwing  down  their  farm  implements  they  took 
musical  instruments  from  the  straw  and  played  an  open  air  con- 
cert.-'* In  describing  Augsburg,  Pastorius  repeats  the  old  legend 
that  the  city  was  built  500  years  before  Rome  and  mentions  the 
promulgation  of  the  Augsburg  confession  in  the  presence  of 
Charles  V  at  the  Imperial  Diet  in  1530.  After  two  days  in 
Augsburg  the  journey  continued  by  way  of  Mittelfeld,  whither 
the  Elector  of  Bavaria  sent  two  silver  mounted  coaches-^  w^ith 
some  cooks  to  meet  and  feast  the  Cardinal  and  his  retinue  on 
their  way  to  Munich,  where  they  spent  some  days  in  feasting  as 
the  guests  of  the  Elector.  The  electoral  escort  accompanied  the 
Cardinal  by  way  of  Landsberg  to  the  borders  of  Tyrol.  The 
journey  now  led  past  Seefeld,  where  the  Cardinal  was  met  by 
the  Archepiscopal  envoys  of  Innsbruck,  the  religious  ceremony 
having  much  interesting  detail.  Leaving  Seefeld  they  journeyed 
on  over  the  mountain  to  Innsbruck,  where  they  were  guests  in 
the  Residence.  Pastorms  notes  that  he  saw  here  for  the  first  time 
a  live  eagle.  From  Innsbruck  they  passed  on  to  Schwatz,  where 
they  "saw  the  snow  on  the  mountain  in  the  midst  of  the  dog- 


24  The  original  passage  in  the  Itinerarium,  runs: 

"Und  als  wir  uon  dar  [Obernhausen]  kaum  eine  halbe  stunde  gegen 
Augsprug  zue  gefahren  waren  begegneten  vns  zween  Wagen  mitt  stroh  be- 
laden  die  hielten  iiff  beyden  seitten  des  Cardinals  Kutschen  und  krochen  aus 
dcm  Stroh  hcrans  20  Augspurger  Bauren  mitt  Rechen,  Hewgabeln,  und 
Treschflegeln,  praesentirten  eine  ijberaus  herrliche  Musicam  vocalem,  dann 
warfFen  sie  ihre  Bauren  Instrumenta  hin,  und  namen  dargegen  allerhand 
instrumenta  Musicalia  aus  dem  strobe  und  spielten  im  freycn  Felde  uber  alle 
massen  lieblich."     (p.  12b.) 

25  The  original  has  "Silbervvagen."  The  silver  coach  and  livre  was 
that  reserved  for  the  clergy. 


FRA.NCONIA 

REDIVJVA. 

Irancfiffficn  ^ralfe^ 

(go  ml)\  Gencalogifc^e/ 

[ff§rel0un3/ 

3n  xoclAev  entbaltcn : 

1 ,  ll^crcr  Jrdncf  ilcfjcn^onigc  unD.f)cr  jo,ac  5lnfimfft 

2,  Dcrcn  v^od)flijfrcr  unb  ^,ij]th{?mber  Origines. 

3.  !I>;:rev  !t)urcl)i.  .ipocb-S^^f  l.^pdufcr  '^raiiDenb. 

4.  S)c^  ^ochlobl.  JpocMnt)'ieutfd)0)?ei|Tt!rtJ)umb^.    , 
J  .!^ercr  J^Dd}j^^  SucceiToren  bcj^JToaufc^J^enncbcra* 
U.SDc^^&oc^SurlJiic^cn  J^aiifc^  ©cfwar^cnbci-gj 
7.^?^  ^>ocf>^©idtflicben  Collegii  in^rancfen. 

5.!I)wcr  ^briaen  (Srd^t€ /Jlecf en  unb JVlojicr. ^ 

rt>.  5^cvci:  ©cburqc  /  ^dlDer  /  unD  9IGaj|cr^5(u|[e. 
i.^?cbe|t  eiticm  ^Itif^ang  »on  ^ochl^blicbei*  9vit^ 
tcrfchaftt  m  ^rancfm/  unt)  anDevn  Jgiod^aDe* 
fichcn  (Jjt'fc^lcc^tern. 
^llw  mic  S^^^f'  colligirt  unt)  in  publicum    , 
rii-gcben  Our<t) 
MELGHIOREM  ADAM  PASTORrUM, 
J.U.DJpo($fui'(tL^rant)cnb.q5at)rcutl?.9va(;t  ,0^ — 

_       unp  Hiftoricum.  ^ ^  Cyljj^^, 

S^n  'SScdcflim^  t)e^  Auchovis.  1702.  J 


Title  Page. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  145 

days,"  past  Lug  over  the  Brenner,  by  Sterzingen,  Brixen,  Bozcn, 
Trient,  where  they  could  hear  German  in  one  street  and  Itahan 
in  another.  In  Trient  they  took  ship  for  Verona-on-the-Etscli, 
once  the  residence  of  Dietrich  of  Bern.  The  next  day  they  ar- 
rived at  the  villa  (Palatium)  of  Cardinal  Rosetti's  brother,  Count 
of  Ferrara,  who  appeared  to  Pastorius  strikingly  selfish  and 
stingy,  as  he  did  not  give  the  Cardinal's  retinue  even  a  morsel  of 
bread  to  eat.-"  The  next  day  they  came  to  the  city  of  Ferrara, 
where  the  Cardinal's  family  resided.  Here  likewise  the  retinue 
were  left  to  shift  for  themselves  in  the  inns.  Pastorius  was  cared 
for  by  the  Cardinal's  father  confessor,  Hieronymus  Piombinus 
(Plumbinus),  who  took  him  along  to  his  native  city.  La  Terra 
Cento.  The  confessor  took  Pastorius  with  him  to  the  cloister 
to  visit  the  nuns,  who  were  much  astonished  at  finding  that  a 
ditferent  language  was  spoken  in  Germany,  .and  that  the  strangei- 
could  not  understand  their  language.  They  sent  Pastorius  after- 
wards a  platter  of  sweet  cakes  and  other  dainties,-"  and  the  con- 
fessor returned  to  Ferrara,  leaving  Pastorius  in  his  new  quarters. 
In  a  few  days  word  came  that  the  Cardinal  had  resumed  his 
journey  to  Rome.  Pastorius  not  able  to  join  them  at  Ferrara 
had  to  follow  them  alone.  He  accordingly  hurried  on  after  them 
by  way  of  Bononia  (Bologna),  noting  particularly  the  ancient 
university  which  was  founded,  as  he  relates,  by  Emperor  Theo- 


20  In  his  own  words:  "Dcr  sich  zwar  mit  seincin  lln.  Brudcrn  ergctzete, 
aber  keincm  Raisgefehrdefi  keinen  Bissen  Brod  tmbote,  also  das  ich  hungrig 
in  einer  scheiiren  schlafifen  muste."   (Itinerarium,  p.  14b.) 

2"  He  writes :  "Anch  mustc  ich  milt  ilime  [dem  Bcichtvatcr]  in  ein  Xon- 
nen  Closter  gehen  allwo  er  seine  Schwestern  besuchte,  die  verwunderten 
sich  sehr  das  in  Teiitschland  die  Leiite  andcrst  redeten  als  sie,  und  das  ich 
ihre  spraache  nicht  konte,  sie  sendeten  mir  nachgehends  in  mein  quarticr 
eine  gute  Schiissel  voll  von  Gewiirtz  und  Zuckcr  gebackenen  Brods."  (Itiner- 
arium, p.  isa.) 


146  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

dosius  and  confirmed  by  Carolus  Magnus;  ^^  passing  through 
Imola,  Faenza  (where  was  to  be  seen  the  splendid  cathedral  in 
which  Cardinal  Rosetti  had  officiated  as  bishop),  Cesena,  Alia 
Catholica,  Pesaro,  Fano  and  Senegallia  (where  he  was  about  to 
dip  up  salt  sea-water  with  his  hat  to  drink,  when  an  Italian 
stopped  him,  motioning  to  him  to  put  his  finger  in  the  water  and 
lick  it  with  his  tongue).  He  journeyed  on  to  Ancona,  where  he 
recalls  the  famous  proverb  : 

"Vnus  Petrus  in  Roma 
Vnus  Portus  in  Ancona 
Vna  Turris  in  Cremona." 

Leaving  Ancona  he  passed  on  to  Loreto,  the  city  with  but 
a  single  gate,  and  its  legend  of  the  angels  of  Nazareth  and  other 
historic  curiosities,  to  Racanati,  to  Macerata,  with  its  university 
and  monastery,  to  Tolentino,  Foligno,  Spoleto,  through  the  valle 
della  strettura  to  Narni,  Otricoli,  over  the  Tiber  to  Civita  Cas- 
tellana,  Rignano,  Castelnuovo,  through  the  Prima  Porta  into  the 
city  of  Rome,  arriving  Aug.  28,  1644  on  St.  Augustine's  Day, 
the  saint  day  of  his  brother  Johann  Augustin  Pastorius,  who  was 
then  practicing  law  in  Rome  and  here  saw  his  younger  brother 
for  the  first  time. 

Not  havmg  overtaken  the  Cardinal  on  the  way,  Pastorius, 


28  His  account  runs  thus :  "Kayser  Theodosius  hat  wider  die  Vniversitat 
gestifftet  welche  Carolus  M.  und  viel  Pabste  confirmiret,  so  auch  lange  Zeitt 
der  massen  floriret  das  die  Statt  daruon  den  Nahmen  bekommen  Bononia 
Mater  studiorum,  und :  Bononia  docet.  Nach  deme  aber  ein  Gubernator  sub 
Gregorio  XIII  einen  Teiitschen  studenten,  Vmb  das  man  zu  Nachts  Waffen 
bey  ihme  gefunden,  hatte  Wippen  lassen,  hat  sich  die  gantze  Teiitsche  Nation 
zu  gleich  aufifgemacht  und  die  Rempublicani  Venetianam  ersuchet  ihnen  einen 
Orth  zu  Vffrichtung  einer  Vniversitat  zu  assigniren  da  ihnen  dann  die  Statt 
Padua  eingcraumet  worden,  weiche  noch  heutiges  Tages  in  flore  ist,  dar- 
gegen  das  herdiche  Collegiu  oder  Vniversitat  zu  Bononia  fast  ganz  leer 
stehet."     (Itinerarium,  p.  15b.)        , 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  147 

after  his  arrival  at  Rome,  drove  with  a  friend"^  to  the  palace  of 
the  Cardinal  to  pay  his  respects  and  thank  the  confessor  Plum- 
binus  for  his  friendly  services  m  Terra  Cento.  He  devotes  a 
number  of  distichs  to  his  brother,  to  Cardinal  Rosetti  and  Plum- 

binus. 

At  the  German  College  in  Rome. 

The  following  day  his  brother  Augustin  accompanied  him 
to  the  German  College  and  presented  him  to  the  Rector,  Pater 
Antonius  Casilius  of  the  Society  of  Jesus,  who  accepted  him  as 
a  prospective  student.  Pastorius'  own  account  of  his  initiation 
and  life  at  the  college  is  so  interesting  that  it  is  given  here  in 
translation  as  an  important  picture  of  student  life  in  Rome  in 
the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century: 

"The  next  day  my  brother  accompanied  me  to  the  German  Col- 
lege and  recommended  me  to  the  Rector,  Father  Antonius  Casilius, 
of  the  Society  of  Jesus,  who  received  me  kindly  and  ordered  me  to 
be  taken  care  of  as  a  guest  for  three  days  by  Peter  Philipp  von  Dern- 
bach  and  Johann  Philipp  von  Walderndorff,  who  washed  my  feet 
the  first  evening,  and  then  took  their  meals  with  me  alone,  for  three 
days,  engaging  me  in  friendly  conversation.  On  the  fourth  day  I 
had  to  take  a  room  to  myself  but  was  permitted  to  appear  two  weeks 
in  my  secular  garb,  after  which  they  cut  off  my  hair  and  put  a  red 
coat  on  me,  such  as  the  others  wore,  and  I  had  to  live  in  accordance 
with  the  rules  which  they  had  taught  me  these  two  weeks : 

Rules  of  the  German  College.^^ 

I.  In  the  morning  early,  at  break  of  day,  the  usual  bell  gives 
the  signal  for  rising,  dressing,  and  making  the  beds,  which  one  must 
do  himself,  while  the  one  on  duty^^  for  the  week  brings  fresh  water 


29  Presumably  Christophorus  Bernier,  to  whom  he  dedicates  some  pre- 
prandial  distichs,  to  which  is  appended  the  following: 

"Nach  eingenommener  Mittags  Mahlzeit  fuhren  wir  in  einer  Kutsche 
spaziren,  und  kamen  in  des  Cardinals  Rosetti  Pallast  besuchten  dessen  Beicht- 
vattern  gegen  welchem  ich  mich  wegen  empffangener  Gutthaten  a  Terra  Cento 
bedanckete."    (Itinerarium,   p.    17b.) 

30  "Regulae  Collegij  Germanici." 

31  The  term  used  is  "Wochner,"  translated  here:  "the  one  on  duty," 
"waiter." 


148  Francis  Daniel  Pastor ius 

to  the  usual  place,  where  each  one  must  go  to  wash;  all  of  which 
must  be  done  in  half  an  hour. 

2.  After  this  the  bell  gives  the  second  signal,  for  prayer  and 
religious  meditation.  Each  one  kneels  before  his  shrine  and  table, 
offers  his  morning  prayer,  and  meditates  on  the  passion,  suffering, 
birth  and  resurrection  of  Christ,  as  the  calendar  and  feast  days 
direct.  This  prayer  and  meditation  lasted  at  the  most  a  quarter  of 
an  hour. 

3.  Then  the  bell  sounds  a  third  signal,  to  prepare  for  the  Aca- 
demic studies,  for  which  there  is  about  half  an  hour. 

4.  The  fourth  signal  is  given,  to  go  into  the  Refectorium,  or 
dining  room,  where  each  one  sits  at  his  accustomed  table  and  par- 
takes of  a  glass  full  of  good  old  wine,  and  four  or  five  rolls,  so  that 
one  need  not  go  with  an  empty  stomach  through  the  bad  air  into 
the  Roman  College. 

5.  Then  the  seventy  students  assemble  themselves  in  the  At- 
rium or  court,  and  go  two  by  two  into  the  Jesuit  College,  each  one 
to  his  appropriate  class,  and  write  what  the  Professor  dictates,  dis- 
cuss, argue  and  dispute,^^  ^x  certain  set  periods.  The  lectures  close 
about  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  the  students  return  home  in 
the  same  order  as  they  went. 

6.  They  look  over  at  home  that  which  has  been  dictated,  and 
think  over  it  to  find  out  what  doubts  or  objections  can  be  raised 
against  it. 

7.  After  this  the  bell  gives  the  signal  to  go  to  the  Refectorium 
for  the  midday  meal,  when  they  all  go  together  into  the  ante-cham- 
ber of  the  Refectorium  and  wash  their  hands,  handing  each  other 
the  dry  towel  out  of  politeness. 

8.  Then  each  one  goes  to  his  place  at  the  table,  till  prayer  is 
offered  by  a  priest. 

9.  Then  they  take  their  seats  in  silence,  and  all  the  while  the 
one  on  duty  has  to  read  from  the  rostrum  accounts  of  the  Holy 
Martyrs  as  long  as  they  sit  at  table. 

10.  Each  room  has  a  special  table  and  a  special  one  on  duty 
each  week  as  waiter,  who  brings  fresh  spring  water  in  the  morning 
for  washing,  and  serves  the  meals  at  midday  and  evening,  at  times 
sweeps  the  rooms,  and  on  Saturday  brings  each  student  clean  linen 
from  the  wardrobe. 

11.  When  the  food  is  served,  those  on  duty  have  round  disks, 
of  the  size  of  a  plough  wheel,  with  a  raised  stem  or  handle  in  the 
middle  to  take  hold  of.     Around  this  are  arranged  as  many  little 


32  In  the  original:  "arguiren,  argumentiren  und  disputiren." 


'  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  149 

platters,  or  dishes,  as  there  are  persons  sitting  at  the  table.  This 
round  tray  with  the  dishes  is  held  over  the  middle  of  the  table,  and 
each  one  must  take  that  dish  which  is  directly  opposite  his  place,  and 
must  not  reach  past  it  to  take  another. 

12.  While  they  are  eating^  the  first  course,  the  waiter  goes 
into  the  kitchen  and  brings  the  second  course  in  the  same  number 
of  small  dishes,  holds  the  tray  above  the  table,  and  each  takes  the 
full  dish  and  sets  the  empty  one  on  the  tray,  so  that  the  waiter 
can  take  it  away;  and  the  same  is  done  with  the  third  course  and 
with  the  postpast,  or  fruit. 

13.  The  serving  of  the  drink  is  somewhat  easier,  for  above  the 
table  are  two  double  rows  of  steins,  one  with  wine,  the  other  with 
water.  Each  student  may  pour  out  for  himself  as  often  as  he  wishes, 
and  may  mix  the  water  and  wine  or  not,  as  he  wishes.  When  the 
wine  vessel  is  empty,  the  waiter  must  fill  it  again. 

14.  On  Fridays  and  Fast  days,  there  is  but  one  meal,  and  in 
the  evening  a  few  apples  or  pears  or  olives,  and  a  glass  of  wine. 

15.  When  the  meal  has  been  finished  in  silence  (for  no  one  is 
permitted  to  speak  a  word  aloud  with  his  neighbor),  they  all  stand 
up  at  one  time  and  a  priest  returns  thanks.  Then  each  one  goes 
into  his  own  room  for  half  an  hour,  where  they  may  walk  around 
and  talk  in  the  recreation  hall. 

16.  Then  the  bell  sounds  the  signal  to  take  up  the  books  again 
and  prepare  for  school,  for  the  students  must  appear  daily  at  one 
o'clock  in  the  Roman  College,  and  remain  there  for  three  hours, 
exercising  and  writing  dictation. 

17.  At  four  o'clock  the  students  go  home  again  in  good  order, 
and  go  over  their  dictation  as  in  the  morning,  until  the  bell  rings 
for  supper,  which  is  served  in  the  same  way  as  dinner.  After  sup- 
per the  students  again  have  half  an  hour  for  recreation  and  con- 
versation. 

18.  Then  the  bell  rings  for  evening  prayers  and  spiritual  medi- 
tation, and  recalling  all  that  has  been  done  during  the  day,  whether 
good  or  bad.  Then  each  one  makes  his  bed  himself,  and  goes  to 
rest,  to  await  the  sound  of  the  bell  the  next  morning. 

19.  Every  Wednesday  is  a  special  day  for  recreation,  for 
walks  outside  of  the  city,  in  the  beautiful  garden  of  the  College  in 
front  of  the  Porta  Populi,  in  which  there  are  all  sorts  of  games  with 
balls,  with  the  ring,  or  in  the  halls  on  tables,  or  the  students  may  eat 
fruits  and  take  their  meals  in  the  garden  on  this  day. 

20.  On  Sundays  and  Fcastdays,  the  seventy  Alumni  must  ap- 
pear in  the  church  and  sing  the  Horse  in  the  mass,  just  as^  the 
Canonici  Regulares,  and  an  Alumnus  must  preach  at  appointed  times 
in  Germat), 


150  Francis  Dayiiel  Pasto7'ius 

The  Hungarian  Church,  Santo  Stephano  Rotundo,  with  its 
prebends,  is  united  with  this  German  College.  In  it,  yearly  at  the 
Church  Festival,  the  Alumni  are  splendidly  entertained,  receiving 
wild  boar  to  eat. 

The  15th  of  September,  1644,  Innocentius  X  was  elected  Pope; 
tlien  we  were  permitted  to  go  outside  the  College  and  to  see  from 
the  banks  of  the  Tiber  the  fireworks  at  night  in  the  Castle  of  Saint 
Angelo.    Such  a  splendid  display  I  had  never  before  seen  in  my  Hfe. 

In  like  manner  we  were  permitted  to  witness  the  Papal  proces- 
sion from  St.  Peter's  to  St.  John  Lateran  where  we  took  our  posi- 
tion at  a  certain  corner  of  the  street  and  besought  the  blessing  of 
the  Pope,  which  he  gave  us  with  a  smiling  countenance. 

After  I  had  spent  three  months  in  this  College,  and  the  time  of 
probation  was  passed,  I  was  expected  to  take  the  vow  and  subscribe 
to  the  rules  in  the  same  manner  as  if  I  wanted  to  become  a  priest; 
but  this  mode  of  life  was  entirely  against  my  nature,  and  I  had  no 
desire  for  the  priestly  order.  So  I  asked  for  dismissal  and  permis- 
sion to  study  law  with  my  brother.  Moreover,  I  wished  to  see  some- 
thing [of  the  world]  at  the  same  time,  which  was  impossible  in  this 
place  of  seclusion.  Accordingly,  I  was  released,  and  turned  my 
attention  to  the  study  of  the  Law,  attending  the  secular  University 
Alia  Sapienza.  I  went  to  see  all  the  curiosities  and  places  of  amuse- 
ment, both  within  and  outside  of  Rome,  and  also  learned  the  Roman 
language,  which  would  never  have  happened  in  the  secluded  College 
among  the  Germans. 

The  Rector,  Father  Antonius  Casilius,  was  well  disposed  to- 
wards me,  and  would  gladly  have  kept  me  in  the  College  had  I 
been  willing  to  remain." 

The  Rector  of  the  German  College  and  other  friends  of 
this  period  are  the  subjects  of  poems  written  in  distichs.  From 
these  verses  we  take  the  followmg  names : 

Antonius  Casilius  (the  Rector  of  the  German  College),  Lau- 
rentius  Coler,  Athanasius  Kirchner,  Count  loannes  Baptista  Lodron 
(whom  he  calls  "Amicissimus  mihi  in  Collegio  Dominus  Comes"), 
Baron  loannes  dc  Iledruar,  Paris  a  Ziirletto,  Petrus  Philippus  de 
Derenbach  ("Exceptus  mens  charissimus  in  Collegio"),  loannes 
Philippus  a  Wallderdorf  ("Alter  Exceptor  mens  Papae  Defensor  et 
Cultor"). 

In  Rome  Pastorius  spent  altogether  during  his  first  sojourn 
about  one  and  a  half  years.    While  he  seems  to  have  made  good 


JKOCihlOSTicCiH 

Sine 


(iaLcnJ.Ui'um.        Pcrfefuum. 

nor.  /pYuf*^  uno  *4n»vo^.  /tO  c)<ikm  t«n«^i/u^t'r-ucn^*C'n - 
■flVu;  V<v.A^»^  -UC'»-U7«4-    /u/ii.rv*'^  •    <2-«a*   om»v.6u/ Wi/a.- 
$aUs   Cai-l •!!■(%. 

la-    cW/,    non   aue 


il<v.pwc^.  I-    I>c:  i'lii'v*'  cju-KiUe-k 


i 


I 


Title  Page.— Manlsckipt, 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  151 

use  of  his  opportunity  to  study  the  theory  and  practice  of  juris- 
prudence, he  was  most  dihgent  in  viewing  the  sights  and  rare 
treasures  in  and  around  the  Eternal  City,  which  are  minutely 
described  in  his  "Descriptio  Rom^e."^^ 

Early  in  1646,,  as  appears  from  his  Itinerarium,  Pas- 
torius left  Rome  to  return  to  Germany.  The  journey  was  by 
way  of  Caprarola,  Viterbo,  Montefiscone,  Siena,  Florence,  Bo- 
logna, Ferrara,  Mantua  (the  birthplace  of  Vergil),  Verona  with 
its  theatre  holding  2500  persons,  Trient,^*  Schwatz  and  Ster- 
zingen  with  their  mines  and  cutlery.  Hall  with  its  salt  springs, 
and  Innsbruck,  arriving  in  Munich,  March  6,  1646,  where  he 
spent  some  months  in  rest  and  sight-seeing.  To  the  reigning 
Duke  of  Bavaria,  Maximilian,  he  composed  an  anagram. 

On  the  19th  of  August,  1646,  he  took  ship  down  the  Isar 
and  sailed  toward  the  Danube,  passing  Freisingen  that  day; 
Landshut,  with  the  highest  towers  in  Germany,  on  the  20th ; 
Pfadlingen,  on  the  22d;  Passau,  on  the  23d;  arriving  in  Linz 
on  the  24th,  where  Emperor  Ferdinand  III  was  holding  his 
court  in  the  imperial  palace. ^'^ 

While  here  Pastorius  witnessed  some  significant  historic 
events,  as  his  own  account  will  show :  "Four  miles  from  Linz 
is  the  city  of   Steier,   where  there   is  an   imperial  castle  also, 


33  An  important  chapter  in  the  Jtinerarium  (pp.  2ia-27b).  In  striking 
contrast  to  other  accounts  of  the  time  such  as  Abgebildetes  \Altes  Rom.  \ 
aus  dem  Italienischen  ins  Hochteutsche  \  mit  Fleiss  iibersetzet  von  \  Alberto 
Reimaro  Liibecense.  \  Gcdruckt  zu  Aernhem  \  In  Verlegung  Johan  Fried- 
rich  Haagcn;  \  Buchhdndlcrs.  \  Anno  MDCLXII,  because  Pastorius  lays 
more  stress  on  the  survivals. 

34  Here  he  remarks  (Itinerariuni,  p.  29a)  :  "in  diser  Gegend  viel  Man- 
delkern  Baume  und  der  kostlichste  Wein  wachset." 

35  He  relates  the  following  interesting  incident  reflecting  on  the  law 
practice  of  the  time  (Itinerarium,  p.  29b)  :  "Ich  hatte  iiber  3.  Tage  nicht  im 
Wiirtshause  gezehret,  da  wurde  ich  bey  dem  Hn.  Graflfen  Marradas  condi- 
tioniret,  deme  ich  seine  concepirte  italienische  schriflften  in  Latein  und 
Teiitsch  vertiren  muste,  dann  er  kcinem  iuristcn  trawete  sondcrn  er  selbsten 
alle  seine  Rechts  process  selbsten  fiihrete." 


152  Francis  Daniel  Pastofius 

which  I  visited  together  with  the  monastery  S.  Florian  and 
Steiergersten  at  the  time  when  the  Emperor  was  leaving  to  take 
Ferdinand  IV  to  Prague  to  be  crowned  King  of  Bohemia,  and 
had  issued  the  decree  that  only  a  few  should  go  along. 

"Meanwhile  I  busied  myself  with  poetry  and  composed  a 
Carmen  Gratulatorium,  had  it  printed  and  presented  it  after  the 
return  [of  the  Emperor  and  the  new  King]  in  the  open  court, 
and  was  rewarded  with  30  Reichsthaler. 

"Soon  after  this  the  Empress  Eleonora,  Infanta  of  Spain, 
died  at  Linz.  Her  body  lay  in  state  for  several  days  in  the  great 
hall  of  the  palace,  and  was  then  placed  on  board  a  ship  draped 
in  black  and  escorted  to  Vienna  by  a  fleet  of  many  ships  and  a 
large  retinue.  The  Swedish  fortification  at  Kornneuburg  fired 
upon  the  fleet  with  cannons,  for  which  act  of  disrespect  the 
Emperor  dispatched  an  envoy  to  Sw^eden,  whereupon  the  Swedish 
commander  was  discharged^®." 

At  the  end  of  August,  1647,  the  Imperial  Court  left  Linz 
for  Vienna  and  Pressburg  to  participate  in  the  coronation  of 
Ferdinand  IV,  as  King  of  Hungary.  As  there  was  a  lack  of 
ships,  Pastorius  was  unable  to  join  the  suite,  but  on  the  8th  of 
September  he  took  passage  with  a  number  of  clerics  on  a  raft 
and  shipped  up  the  river  Enns  to  the  City  of  Enns,  where  the 
Enns  empties  into  the  Danube.  Passing  Ipsstein,  Grembs,  and 
Kornneuburg,  he  arrived  m  Vienna  on  the  12th  of  September, 
and  continued  his  journey  on  the  15th  by  way  of  Fischbach 
to  Pressburg,  where  he  met  his  old  fellow-student  in  the  Ger- 
man College,  Baron  de  Hedruar,  who  treated  him  magnificently 
and  introduced  him  to  a  number  of  magnates  and  counts,  among 
them  Palffi,  Nadasti,  and  Hommonai.  September  27th  the  coron- 
ation of  Ferdinand  IV  took  place  and  the  Imperial  Court  re- 
turned to  Vienna,  whither  Pastorius  also  went  with  Count  Hom- 
monai.    The  Count  offered  Pastorius  the  hospitality  of  his  table. 


36  See  the  Itinerarium,  p.  29b. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  153 

As  the  events  of  the  war  had  become  more  ominous,  Pas- 
torius was  warned  by  his  brother  to  return  at  once  to  Rome. 
Accordingly,  on  the  20th  of  November,  he  left  Vienna,  going 
by  hackney-coach  to  Steier,  and  thence  by  way  of  Seekirchen 
and  Sanct  Georgen  when  the  prelate  sent  him  by  horscDacK  10 
the  Monastery  at  Salzburg,  where  he  had  free  entertainment. 
Here  he  met  again  his  old  friend  Ziirletto.  Thence  he  con- 
tinued his  journey  to  Waidering,  Brixen,  Bozen,  Trient,  Verona, 
Ferrara,  Bologna,  Loreto,  Macerata,  Tolentino,  Foligno,  on  to 
Rome,  where  he  was  greeted  by  his  brother  at  the  end  of  De- 
cember, 1647. 

Here  he  continued  the  study  of  Jurisrudence,  practicing  in 
the  Roman  trials  with  his  brother,  and  informing  himself  in  the 
details  of  his  brother's  cases,  particularly  in  the  cases  of  Philippus 
Christophorus  of  Zoteren,  the  Elector  of  Trier,  taking  his 
brother's  place  in  the  business.  On  the  26th  of  April,  1648,  his 
brother  returned  to  Germany,  leaving  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius 
in  his  place  as  Resident  at  Rome  for  the  Elector  of  Trier.  This 
position  Melchior  Adam  held  for  a  period  of  five  months,  at  the 
end  of  which,  on  the  12th  of  September,  he  left  Rome  in  the  com- 
pany of  Bartholomaeus  Nagel,  M.  D.,  passing  by  way  of  Rig- 
nano  to  Otricoli.  The  next  day  they  went  by  way  of  Narni 
and  Terni  to  Spoleto,  on  the  14th  by  way  of  Foligno  to  Sera- 
valle,  the  15th  by  way  of  Vallemara  to  Tolentino,  the  i6th  by  way 
of  Macerata  to  Loreto,  the  17th  to  Ancona,  the  19th  by  way  oi 
Fano  to  Pesaro,  the  20th  by  way  of  Alia  Catholica  to  Savig- 
nano,  the  21st  by  way  of  Forli  Grande  to  Faenza,  the  22d  by 
way  of  S.  Nicolo  to  Bologna,  where  he  remained  four  days.  On 
the  27th  in  the  evening  he  took  ship  for  Ferarra,  arriving  the 
next  day  at  noon.  Here  he  met  his  old  student  friend  of  the 
German  College  Bartholomaeus  Dannazoll,  who  had  meanwhile 
become  a  priest  and  now  entertained  him  at  the  inn.  On  the 
day  of  his  arrival  at  Ferrara,  he  met  his  old  friend,  the  painter 
Andreas  Petri  of  Prague,  who  had  painted  for  him  and  his 


154  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

brother  at  Rome.  This  same  day  he  took  a  coach  for  the  river 
Po,  where  he  embarked  for  Venice,  arriving  the  following  day. 
On  the  31st  of  September  he  reached  Padua,  with  its  old  Uni- 
versity and  splendid  city  hall,  meeting  here  Dannazoll  again.  He 
then  continued  the  journey  on  the  2d  of  October  to  Passano, 
Pass  Kobol,  by  the  rapid  Brenta,  to  Primolano,  Castelnuovo, 
arriving  at  Trient  the  4th  of  October.  Leaving  Trient  he  passed 
on  to  Tramin  and  Solum.  On  the  5th  of  October  he  came  to 
Bozen,  where  he  met  another  old  friend.  Otto  Moritz  von 
Kraus  of  Krauseck,  who  entertained  him  several  days.  On 
the  9th  of  October  he  journeyed  on  by  way  of  Collmann  to 
Brixen,  on  the  loth  to  Sterzingen,  on  the  nth  to  the  Brenner 
Pass,  on  the  12th  by  way  of  Stemach  and  Materan  to  Hall  in  the 
Valley  of  the  Inn,  where  he  met  his  old  friend  Wolff  gang  Eber 
who  had  been  his  messmate  in  Rome,  and  who  had  taught  him 
how  to  boil"kupf¥erweis."^^a.  On  the  13th  of  October  he  journeyed 
to  Innsburck,  on  the  14th,  15th,  i6th  by  way  of  Ziel  to  Landeck, 
on  the  17th  to  St.  Jacob,  on  the  i8th  over  the  Adlersberg  to 
Nenzig,  the  20th-2ist  by  way  of  Rastriz,  Neuburg,  Ems  to  Monn- 
heim,  where  they  crossed  the  Rhine.  On  the  24th  they  sailed 
across  the  Bodensee  to  Costniz,  meeting  there  another  old  com- 
panion of  the  German  College  Franciscus  Drocken,  now  a  canon 
at  that  place.  On  the  26th  of  October  he  came  to  Schaffhausen, 
where  he  met  his  old  acquaintance  Johannes  Wepfer,  M.  D.,  who 
took  him  to  see  the  Falls  of  the  Rhine.  On  the  29th  of  Octo- 
ber he  reached  the  Monastery  Klingenau,  and  went  the  following 
day  by  ship  to  Laufenberg,  where  he  and  his  friend  Bartholo- 
maeus  Nagel  were  entertained  by  the  Ensign  Emanuel  Scho- 
nauer.  He  now  journeyed  on  past  Rheinfeld,  arriving  at  Basel 
November  ist.  On  the  3d  of  November  they  reached  Breisach, 
where  they  received  the  first  news  of  the  Peace  of  Miinster 
and  Osnabriick.     Having  secured  passes,  they  went  on  to  Strass- 


^•^a.  "Der  zu  Rom.  bey  niir  im  convictu  gewesen  war,  und  mich  das  Kupflfer- 
wcis  zu  sicden  gclchret  hatte"  (Itinerarium,  p.  35b). 


JToaMA    iiiviTATI^  IMP: 
WBHk>E  ^iNDiHEIMEN-Sis. 

'n.        .-y,-     /A  V.  n-1  J  /^'    '■     ' 


I 


/Ni'^li^uSt  •!•■'.. .■■'.;&;• 


Title  Page. — Manuscript. 

Original  Form  of  Pastorius'   "Kurtze  Beschreibung"  of  Windsheim. 
Published  in  1692. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  155 

burg,  November  5th,  where  they  were  entertained  by  a  student 
of  Rothenburg,  and  visited  the  Miinster.  In  Strassburg  they 
bought  a  small  boat  and  hired  a  boatman  to  take  them  to  Mainz. 
The  Tutor  (Hofmeister)  of  the  Polish  Prince  Razzivill  went 
along  with  them,  paying  half  the  expenses.  On  the  7th  of  No- 
vember they  left  Strassburg,  at  Philippsburg  on  the  9th  they 
were  held  up  by  a  Jew,  who  demanded  toll,  but  producing  their 
passes  were  allowed  to  proceed,  and  reached  Speier  the  same 
day.  On  the  loth  of  November  they  went  by  way  of  Eigels- 
heim  to  Mannheim,  where  they  found  but  six  houses  standing, 
the  rest  of  the  city  having  been  razed  to  the  ground.^^  On  the 
nth  they  reached  Worms,  noting  particularly  the  inscription 
on  the  old  tower,  "Specula  Vangionum."  On  the  12th  of  No- 
vember they  reached  Oppenheim,  viewing  the  beautiful  pyramid 
erected  to  Gustavus  Adolphus  in  memory  of  his  crossing  the 
Rhine.  That  evening  they  arrived  at  Mainz,  where  they  ate 
their  Christmas  goose  ("Martins  Gans"),  and  took  leave  of 
Razzivill's  tutor,  who  wished  to  take  Pastorius  with  him  to 
Poland,  promising  to  make  him  a  great  and  rich  lord.  This 
offer  Pastorius  foolishly  declined,  because,  as  he  says  himself, 
he  had  determined  to  see  that  accursed  France^^a.  On  the  14th 
Pastorius  journeyed  to  "Elvell  and  Erbach,  in  Willens,"  to  see 
his  sister  Margaretha  and  her  husband  Laurentius  Bebeler,  but 
she  had  died  meanwhile  at  the  birth  of  her  first  child,  Anna 
Maria,  whom  they  showed  him,  lying  in  the  cradle.  On  the 
1 6th  he  proceeded  to  Bingen,  and  on  the  17th  down  the  Rhine 


37  This  is  a  particularly  interesting  fact  in  contrast  with  the  now  large 
and  flourishing  city  of  Mannheim,  which  is  celebrating  the  Tercentennial  of 
its  elevation  to  cityhood  in  1607. 

37a.  Pastorius  writes:  "Nam  ich  uon  dem  Razziuillischen  Hoffmeister 
Vrlaub  welchem  fast  die  augen  iibergiengen  und  mich  gerne  mitt  in  Pohlen 
gehabt  hette  mitt  Versprechen  Einen  grossen  und  Reichen  Herren  aus  mir  zu 
machen  aber  ich  schlug  es  vnvorsichtiglich  ab,  und  rennete  in  mein  eigen 
Vngliick,  in  deme  ich  mir  all  zu  feste  vorgenommen  hatte  das  vermaledeyte 
Franckreich  zu  besichtigen."     ([tinerarium,  p.  38a.) 


156  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

passing  the  old  castles  on  the  way  to  Coblenz,  where  they  were 
entertained  from  the  wine  cellars  of  the  Elector  of  Trier.  On 
the  19th  they  reached  Miinster,  on  the  21st  arrived  at  Trier, 
going  to  the  house  of  Lucas  Roerich,  M.  D.,  who  had  been  their 
guest  at  Rome.  Their  meals  they  took  at  the  Court  table  at 
Trier.  On  the  12th  of  December  Pastorius  reached  Dieten- 
hofen,  on  the  14th  Metz,  on  the  15th  Pontimosson,  on  the  17th 
Nancy,  on  the  20th  Toul,  on  the  24th  Bar-le-Duc,  Nagel  having 
accompanied  him  on  the  journey.  On  the  28th  of  December 
they  passed  out  of  Lorraine  into  France,  by  way  of  Sendisi, 
reaching  Vitry  on  the  29th  and  Chalon  on  the  31st.  On  the 
3d  of  January,  1649,  they  left  Chalon,  but  lost  their  way  in 
the  darkness  and  rain  and  were  unable  to  find  a  bed  to  sleep 
in,  until  a  barber  took  them  in  and  gave  them  a  place  at  his 
fireside.  On  the  6th  of  January  they  reached  the  city  of  Momi- 
rell,  where  they  remained  six  days.  On  the  13th  they  journeyed 
to  Forte  where  they  were  taken  for  spies,  but  were  finally  libera- 
ted through  the  intervention  of  a  grain  dealer,  who  secured  a 
boat  for  them,  and  had  them  sent  over  the  river  secretly.  They 
then  proceeded  to  Meaux  and  arrived  in  Paris  the  17th  of 
January,   1649. 

To  Paris  he  devotes  the  following  verses : 

Laus  Lutetiae  Parijsiorum. 

Se  laudent  aliae,  pro  me  mode  Kama  loquatur 

Si  poterit  uero  miirmere  Fama  loqui 
Nam  mea  Maiestas  non  uno  cernitur  anno 

Ampla  nimis  spacium  longius  ilia  cupit 
Ipsa  mihi  uix  nota,  vias,  Turresque  Domosque 

Non  numero,  immensi  singula  Nomen  habent 
Tarn  grandem  bifido  scindit  me  Sequana  cursu 

Tectaque  Pontigera  Regia  lambit  aqua.^'^b 

The  city  of  Paris  was  at  this  time  in  a  state  of  siege  and 
disorder.     Prince  Conde  had  blockaded  all  the  thoroughfares, 


37b.  Cf.  Itinerarhim,  p.  40b. 


Gamt 

tinD  n>af)cf)afftigen  UrfadKn  i&vcrfo  gcofs 
fcnDccadenpni5£i:barmim^0  {v&Ci 

•5((tcn  glQublrtirbicien  Documentis  uwb 

^nefflicben  UrfunDfii    (  bcr  ifjo  (cbenDen  licben 

5Suri]erfcl>atff /lint)  Il^n'O  ^acbfcmmen  /  ^u,qutC5 

^iictncfer)  alfo  jufammen  gcrra^cn  /  unD  i« 

Melchiorem  Adamum  Paflrorium , 
aitcni  23urgcmeirtcrn  unb  Obcr^D^id;-' 

tcrii  in  bcfaqtcr  ^raDr. 


©eMnjcft  5U  97firnbcrg 

fcn;  gbrMuan  ©igmunb  Sro5ert|. 


Title  Pace. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  i^y 

and  famine  threatened  the  city.  The  friendly  offices  of  a  Mem- 
ber of  Parliament  secured  Pastorius  his  personal  liberty.  He 
took  quarters  at  the  home  of  a  Dr.  Heilmann  in  Saint  Germain 
and  laid  in  his  own  provisions,  living-  quietly  to  avoid  the  dan- 
gers of  the  tumult.  He  left  Paris  on  the  17th  of  June,  1649, 
with  Lucas  Kleilein,  as  his  traveling  companion,  and  journeyed 
by  way  of  Corbeil,  Myli,  Montagni,  St.  Jean,  Briard,  Soleil, 
Mohn,  Poroin,  and  Palaisse,  arriving  at  Roan  July  the  ist,  and 
passed  on  thence  to  St.  Martin  and  La  Brelle  and  Lyons.  On 
the  5th  of  July  he  proceeded  to  Burg  without  Kleilein,  who 
had  escaped  with  some  of  Pastorius'  manuscripts  and  other 
effects,  avoiding  a  board  bill  in  Lyons;  thence,  July  8th  to 
Nantua;  July  9th  to  Cologna  and  Geneva,  the  12th  to  Newis,  the 
13th  to  Lausanne,  the  14th  to  Orbon,  the  15th  to  Solothurn,  the 
1 6th  to  August,  arriving  on  the  i8th  at  Basel.  On  the  ist  of 
September  he  left  Basel  for  Germany,  passing  St.  Blasius  in 
the  Black  Forest,  where  he  met  an  old  fellow  student  of  the 
German  College,  Father  Blasius  Sarwei,  who  gave  him  the 
freedom  of  the  Monastery.  He  journeyed  thence  to  Villingen, 
Rothweil,  Tiibingen,  Hohentwiel  and  Stuttgart,  v/here  he  had 
an  interview  with  Dr.  Johann  Vallentin  Andrefe,  who  was  Court 
Preacher  there,  and  wished  to  give  him  a  position  at  Court, 
which  he,  however,  declined.  On  the  27th  of  August,  he  left 
Stuttgart  for  Cannstatt,  Marbach,  Bottwar,  Jaxthausen,  Hab- 
hausen,  Rottingen,  Lauda,  Reigelsberg,  Ingolstadt,  and  Winter- 
hausen,  where  he  was  kindly  received  on  the  29th  of  August 
by  Wilhelm  Trew,  the  Pastor  of  the  place,  and  stepfather  of 
his  former  traveling  companion,  Bartholomaeus  Nagel.  He 
asked  Trew  to  give  him  money  on  his  paper,  but  failing  to  re- 
ceive cash  upon  his  note  from  the  parson,  who  put  him  off  with 
the  proffer  of  wein  not  yet  sold,  he  returned  to  the  Electoral 
Court  at  Wiirzburg,  whence  he  had  set  out  on  his  journey  to 
Rome  five  years  before. 

Pastorius  was  weary  of  this  aimless  wandering  and  wished 


158  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

a  permanent  position  for  the  practice  of  his  profession.  He 
sought  an  audience  with  the  Elector  Johann  Phihpp,  Archbishop 
of  Mainz,  explained  to  him  his  change  of  plan  from  the  study 
of  theology  to  that  of  jurisprudence,  and  asked  his  favor  and 
commendation.  As  the  Court  was  then  being  held  in  Wiirzburg, 
Pastorius  was  told  to  wait  patiently  until  it  was  over.  He  took 
quarters  with  the  City  Captain  ("Stadthauptmann")  and  had  his 
meals  at  the  Electoral  table.  He  then  had  a  cask  of  the  Win- 
terhausen  wine  sent  to  his  quarters  to  enliven  his  spirits.  His 
Itinerdrium  contains  a  most  interesting  account  of  the  events  at 
the  Electoral  Court  at  this  time.  Pastorius  then  sought  another 
audience  with  the  Archbishop  and  asked  for  a  recommendation 
to  the  Count  of  Limpurg.  The  Archbishop  gave  him  the  follow- 
ing letter: 

"lohann  Philipp  uon  Gottes  Gnaden  Ertz  Bischoff  zu  Myntz  u. 
Churfiirst. 

Wohlgebohrner  Lieber  Getrewer  aus  der  Innlage  hastu  zu 
ersehen  was  der  Hochgelehrte  vnser  Lieber  Besonder  Melchior 
Adam  Pastorius  an  vns  gelangen  lassen  gleich  wie  wir  nun  dessen 
Wohlfart  gerne  befordert  sehen  mochten,  also  zweiffelt  vns  nicht 
Du  wcrdest  diese  vnsere  Recommendation  so  weith  giiltig  sein  lassen 
damitt  selbiger  nach  seinen  qualitaten  bester  massen  moge  unterge- 
bracht  und  befordert  warden.  Das  begehren  wir  in  dergleichen 
fallen  in  Genaden  (  AVormitt  wir  Dir  forderist  wohl  bey  gethan 
verbleiben:)  zu  erkennen  willig,  und  versehen  vns  der  Willfahr- 
ung — Datum  vnserer  Statt  Wiirtzburg  den  27.  Nov.  i649."3'^c 

This  document  secured  Pastorius  the  desired  appointment  in 
the  service  of  Count  Georg  Friedrich  of  Limpurg,  in  Sommer- 
hausen.  His  joy  over  the  prospect  of  a  new  life  is  expressed  in 
many  of  his  poems  dedicated  later  to  the  Count  Georg  Friedrich 
and  Franciscus,  the  new  heir  apparent,  and  the  members  of  the 
Sommerhausen  circle,  which  he  now  entered. 

Important  changes  took  place  in  Pastorius'  religious  and 
social  life  during  the  first  weeks  of  his  sojourn  in  Sommerhausen. 
He  laconically  sums  it  up  as  follows  (in  English  translation)  : 


8Tc.  Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  48&. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  159 

"With  these  recommendations  I  betook  myself  to  Sommer- 
hausen,  was  well  received  by  his  Lordship  George  Friedrich  of 
Limpurg,  and  married  the  estimable  and  virtuous  Lady  Magda- 
lena  Dietz ;  composed  in  writing  my  Evangelical  Confession  of 
Faith,  left  the  Papal  tenets  and  together  with  his  Lordship 
of  Limpurg  partook  of  the  Holy  Sacrament  on  Christmas  Day, 
i649."38 

The  order  of  events  is  reversed  in  the  Itineraritim.  We  learn 
from  the  Actus  Nuptiales  of  Sommerhausen  that  he  married  Jan- 
uary 22,  1650.     The  entry  runs  as  follows : 

Dn.  Melchior  Adamus  Pastorius  Erplordensis,  J.  V.  D.  welcher 
mit  vorhingelegter  Bapstischen  religion,  sich  zu  vnserer  allein  seelig- 
machenden  Evangel,  religion  v.  einer  vngeanderten  Augspurgisch 
confession  mit  hertz  v.  mundt  offentlich  bekandt,  auch  bald  darauf 
das  hochw.  abentmal  in  zweyerley  gestallt,  nach  Christi  selbst  eigner 
stiff tung,  vf  vorher  empfang.  privat  absolution,  genossen,  nach- 
gehents  auch  offentlich,  vff  beschehene  dreymalige  offene  procla- 
mation v.  gehaltener  hochzeitpredigt,  christ-ehe-v.  ehrlich  copuliret 
worden,  mit  der  Ehr.  v.  Tugendsamen  Fraw  Magdalena,  Weyland 
Hn.  Johann  Johms,  Limp.  Schultheiss  allhier  hinderlassener  Wittib, 
den  22.  Januarij.39 

Magdalena,  wife  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius,  was  born 
February  2,  1607.  She  was  the  daughter  of  Stephan  Dietz, 
Schulteiss  of  Main-Nordheim  in  Brandenburg.^^  November 
17,  1629,  she  married  Heinrich  Frischmann,  Steward 
of  Workhausen,  and  bore  him  three  children,  all  of  whom  died 
young.     After  the  death  of  her  first  husband,  November  17,  1634, 


38  Cf.  his  Itinerarium,  p.  48b.    The  original  is  in  German. 

39  The  original  will  be  presented  in  photographic  reproduction  from  the 
part  of  the  church  record  or  Kirchenbuch  with  the  superscription :  "Sequentur 
Actus  nuptiales  in  ao  1650." 

40   F.   D.   Pastorius'  Genealogical   Sketch  and  M.     A.   P.'s  Itinerarium 
(p.  114b). 


i6o  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

she  married  Johann  Johm,  Steward  in  Sommerhausen.  Febru- 
ary 18,  1639.  The  issue  of  this  union  was  four  children,  but  two 
of  whom,  Margaretha  and  Ludwig,  hved  to  any  considerable  age. 
January  3,  1648,  Johm  dicd,^^  leaving  her  a  widow  for  the  second 
time.  She  married  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  January  2.  1650. 
The  only  child  of  this  union  was  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  the 
subject  of  this  w'ork.  IMagdalena  died  on  Good  Friday,  A^Iarch 
27,  1657,  and  was  buried  in  the  graveyard  in  Sommerhausen,  by 
the  pastor  of  Winterhausen,  her  own  pastor  being  ill  at  the  time 
of  the  funeral.'*-  Both  Melchior  Adam,  her  husband,  and  Francis 
Daniel,  her  son,  have  left  loving  and  tender  words  touching  her 
character.     The  former  has  the  following  verses  in  an  anagram : 

\^on  kindheit  auff  im  Creutz  und  Nothstand  must  ich  stecken 
Mich  that  der  Kriegessclnvall  und  manche  pliindrug  schrecken 
Mein's  X'atters  Plans  und  Hofif,  auch  was  erwarb  mein  Mann 
Must  mitt  dem  Riicken  ich  als  Wittib  schauen  an 
In  solcher  Creutzes  Schuel  lernt  ich  die  Welt  uerachten 
Vnd  deren  Eyttelkeit  vonn  innern  grund  betrachten 

Ich  sprach :  O  spare  da  Mein  Gott  einst  doch  die  peyn 
O  Iesv  an  dir  hangt  mein  Gantze  Lieb  allein.-*^ 

Her  husband,  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius,  gave  public  expres- 
sion to  her  virtues  in  a  printed  sermon,  as  we  learn  from  her  son, 
Francis  Daniel  ■}^ 

"My  said  father,  testifying  his  sincere  and  constant  affection 
towards  her  in  a  prmted  funeral  coment  upon  the  words  Holy 


41  Cf.  the  TotenbucJt  of  Sommerhausen  for  1648: 

"G.  Johann  Johm,  Praetor  allhier,  hat  das  zeitliche  gesegnet,  ist  auch  mit 
christlichen  Ceremonien  zur  crclen  bestattet  worden,  den  4  Februarij." 

42  The  record  in  the  Totcnhuch  for  1657  is  as  follows:  "Frau  Magdalena, 
HE  D.  Pastorii  eheliche  Hausfrau,  mit  dem  choro  musico  vom  HE  Pfarrer 
in  Winterhausen,  in  mciner  (des  hiesigen  Pfarrers  Nikolaus  Hoehn)  Krank- 
heit  christlich  und  ehrlich  zu  grab  geleitet  und  eingesarket  worden  am  29. 
Martii." 

43  Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.   114b  and  p.   1153. 

44  Cf.  F.  D.  Pastorius'  Biographical  Sketch. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  i6i 

David,  Psal.  73,  v.  2,  3  &  26,  which  were  in  a  manner  her  sym- 
bolum,  motto  or  device,  and  found  according  to  Martin  Luther's 
Dutch  translation  verbatim  thus :  When  I  have  but  thee,  I  care 
not  for  heaven  and  earth,  and  though  my  body  and  soul  do  pine 
away,  yet  art  thou,  O  God,  alone  the  comfort  of  my  heart  and  my 
portion.  She  was  a  woman  fearing  the  Lord,  and  ready  to  help 
the  poor  and  the  sick  as  much  as  in  her  lied,  having  for  that  end  a 
small  apothecary-shop  in  her  own  house,  being  herself  pretty 
skilful  in  physick,  &c.  I  shall  say  no  more  of  her  whom  I  lost 
too  early,  but  6  years  and  6  months  old." 

At  the  time  when  Pastorius  went  to  Sommerhausen,  Fran- 
ciscus,  the  young  son  and  heir  apparent  of  Count  Georg  Friedrich 
of  Limpurg,  was  but  twelve  years  of  age,  and  was  under  the  in- 
struction of  tutors.  Although  Der  Limpurgische  Ehrensaal^^ 
mentions  only  one  of  these  tutors,  Georg  Diiring  of  Kitzing,  a 
student  of  theology,  it  is  quite  likely  that  Pastorius  had  an  im- 
portant part  in  the  young  count's  education.  Before  Franz 
reached  his  majority  his  father,  Count  Georg  Frederich,  died,  Oc- 
tober 5,  1 65 1,  and  the  young  count  was  placed  under  guardians. 

The  efficiency  of  Franz's  tutors,  as  well  as  his  own  native 
ability  were  soon  to  be  put  to  a  test.  As  Count  of  Limpurg  it 
was  his  office  to  serve  as  hereditary  imperial  cupbearer  at  the 
coronation  of  the  new  Emperor,  in  default  of  older  representatives 
of  the  house.  In  the  year  1653  Emperor  Ferdinand  IIL  sum- 
moned the  Imperial  Diet  at  Regensburg  for  the  coronation  of  his 
newly  elected  successor,  Ferdinand  IV.  As  the  older  representa- 
tives of  the  house  of  Limpurg,  Erasmus  and  Johann  Wilhelm, 
were  unable,  because  of  age  or  infirmity,  to  perform  the  office  of 
cupbearer,  it  was  decided  that  young  Franz,  though  only  sixteen 
years  of  age,  should  assume  the  office.  Arriving  at  Regensburg 
after  a  twenty-four  hours'  ride  in  a  diligence,  he  found  that  the 


45  From  an  extract  kindly  furnished  me  by  her  Ladyship  Christine  Erb- 
grafin  v.  Rechteren-Limpurg,  from  Der  Limpurgische  Ehrensaal  von  Georg 
Salomon  Ziegler,  PNE  Limpurg  1739. 


1 62  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

order  had  been  changed  in  favor  of  'Count  Sinzendorff,  in  the 
Maase'.  Franz,  nothing  daunted, 'made  open  protest  to  the  as- 
sembled knights,  was  restored  to  his  rightful  place  and  on  the  8th 
of  June  served  as  cupbearer  at  the  coronation,  and  on  the  25th  of 
July,  in  the  same  capacity  at  the  coronation  of  the  Empress.  Not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  he  was  at  first  refused  horse,  saddle 
and  armor  for  the  ceremony,  he  finally  obtained  his  full  equip- 
ment and  returned  home  with  honor  and  distinction  to  continue 
his  studies  in  preparation  for  the  university.  In  the  autumn  of 
1655  he  entered  the  then  flourishing  University  of  Altdorf,^^  as 
the  following  matriculation  will  show : 

D.  25,  Oct.,  1655.  Franciscus,  Baro  in  Limpurg,  S.  R.  I. 
Pincerna  haereditarius  semperque  Liber.'*" 

In  June,  1656,  he  returned  home,  but  set  out  the  follow- 
ing September,  accompanied  by  his  tutor  (Hofmeister)  Rudolph 
Graf,  J.  U.  D.,  for  France,  returning  April  26,  1658,  to  Som- 
merhausen.  On  the  27th  of  October,  1659,  he  went  with  one 
servant  to  Italy,  where  he  learned  the  Italian  language  and 
saw  with  his  own  eyes  "des  Pabstums  Greuelwesen,"  at  Rome.^^ 
After  his  return  from  Italy,  in  1660,  he  collected  a  large  library 
and  assumed  the  rule  of  his  domains.  In  1663  he  married 
Fr.  Maria  Juliana  geb.  Grafin  von  Hohenloh-Langenburg,  widow 
of  Johann  Wilhelm  of  Limpurg-Schmidefeld.  Count  Franz 
ruled  twelve  years  and  died  at  the  early  age  of  thirty-six,  No- 
vember 16,  1673.  Pastorius  has  left  us  a  touching  tribute  to 
Count  Georg  Friedrich,  both  in  German  and  Latin  verses.'*'* 
The  first  four  of  the  German  verses  give  a  portrait  of  the  count's 
personal  appearance: 


4C  Near   Niirnberg. 

4  7  Cf.  Georg  Andreas  Wills,  Gcschichic  uiid  Beschrcihimg  der  Ni'irnber- 
gischen   Universitdt  Altdorf.     Altdorf,   1795,  p.  244. 
48   Cf.   Der  LimpiD'gischc  Ehrcnsaal,  I.e. 
4y  Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  50b  and  p.  Sia-b. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastoritcs  163 

Ob  ich  zwar  iion  Gestalt  was  scharff  bin  anzuseben 

So  in  Soldaten  Stand  so  pfleget  herzugeben 

Bin  icb  doch  iin  Gemiitb  der  Demutb  zugetban 
Vnd  bat  bey  mir  Gebor,  so  Klein :  als  Grosser  Mann. 

The  Latin  verses  bespeak  Pastorius'  own  loss  in  the  deatb  of 
the  Count : 

O  quantus  mihi  Faiitor  obit !    quantusque  Patronus ! 

Protector  Patriae  dum  Fridericus  obit 
O  mea  pars  animse,  mens  Vltor,  et  Altor  opimus 

Dum  mea  meas  super  est,  Te  super  astra  feret. 

Also  for  the  young  Count  Franz,  Pastorius  had  a  like  affec- 
tion, as  the  following  verses  will  show : 

Quantum  inimica  Patris  Fridridi  Fata  dolorem 
Moestitiamque  animo  contribuere  meo 

Tantam  laetitiam  de  Te  Francisce  recepi 

Qui  mens  et  Patriae  factus  es  ipse  Parens. 

Notwithstanding  the  departure  of  Count  Franz  for  the  uni- 
versity and  his  long  journeys  to  France  and  Italy,  the  position  of 
Pastorius  at  Sommerhausen  must  have  promised  permanency, 
for  in  1655,  the  year  of  the  young  Count's  departure  for  the  uni- 
versity, he  built  a  substantial  house  at  Sommerhausen,  which  is 
still  standing  (1903)  in  a  good  state  of  preservation.  The  in- 
scription on  the  date  stone,  not  at  the  corner  of  the  house,  but  at 
the  left  of  the  front  door,  runs  thus :  ^^ 

MELCHIOR    ADAMUS    PASTORIUS    ANO    DMI     1655 

SVO   AERE   EX    FVDAMENTIS    HOC   HAB'ITACVLVM 

SVO  SVORVMOUE  VSVI  PARAVIT. 

Translation : 

"Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  built  this  dwelling  from  the  founda- 


50  The  author  is  indebted  to  the  present  (1903)  occupant  of  the  house 
for  the  privilege  of  examining  the  interior  and  of  having  the  house  and  date- 
stone  photographed,  and  to  Lehrer  Friedrich  Gutmann  and  his  son  of  Som- 
merhausen  for  assistance. 


164  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

tions  with  his  own  money  for  the  use  of  himself  and  his  family. 
Anno  Domini  1655." 

As  may  be  seen  from  the  accompanying  plate,  the  inscription 
is  cut  in  capitals  about  the  coat-of-arms  of  the  Pastorius  family. 

The  happiness  of  this  new  home  was  interrupted  by  the 
death  of  Magdalena,  in  1657.  The  father,  left  alone  with  his 
little  Franciscus,  married  as  his  second  wife  Eva  Margaretha 
maiden  daughter  of  John  Gelchsheimer,  J.  U.  D.  and  Jur.  Consul, 
of  the  Imperial  City  of  Windsheim,  February  9,  1658.^^  The 
first  child  of  this  union,  Susanna,  was  born  December  7,  1658, 
but  lived  scarcely  four  months.  The  second  daughter,  who  was 
given  the  same  name,  was  born  June  10,  1660,  but  lived  only  nine 
days.  On  May  31  a  third  child  was  delivered,  still-born,  by  a 
Caesarean  section  made  by,  a  skillful  barber  or  surgeon  (Balbirer) 
named  Georg  Appoldt.  The  mother  succumbed  to  the  operation 
on  the  19th  of  the  following  June. 

It  was  through  his  marriage  with  Margaretha  Gelchsheimer 
that  Pastorius  transferred  his  residence  from  Sommerhausen  to 
Wmdsheim.  On  the  3-13  of  May,  1659,  Johann  Gelchsheimer 
died.  His  son-in-law,  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius,  was  elected  his 
successor  and  became  a  citizen  of  Windsheim,  taking  the  bur- 
gher's oath  on  the  ist  of  August,  1659.  The  Burger  imd  Stib- 
nerbuch^^  of  Winlsheim  contains  the  following  entry: 


51  The  Itinerariiim  (p.  Ii6a)  contains  Pastorius'  own  account:  "Melchior 
Adam  Pastorius  hatte  in  dieser  Erstern  Ehe  gelebt  7.  Jahr  und  10.  Wochen. 
Vnd  nach  deme  es  scin  Zucstand  nicht  lej'den  woke  mit  seinem  Sohnlein 
Francisco  Daniele  in  die  lange  In  Sommerhausen  zu  verharren,  hat  er  sich 
an  des  Wohl  Edlen  und  Ilochgelehrten  Herren  lohann  Gelchsheimers  der 
Rechten  Doctoris  und  des  He}'!.  Rom.  Reichs  Statt  Windsheimb  bestellen 
Consulentens  Jungfrau  Tochter  Euam  Margaretham  verheurathet  den  g. 
Febr.   1658." 

52  Excerpted  from  the  original  ms.  vol.  of  the  Biiiger  und  Siehner  Buck 
in  Windsheim. 

I  wish  to  acknowledge  the  kindly  assistance  of  his  Honor  the  Burgo- 
master, of  the  City  accountant,  Matthias  Gender,  and  of  the  Rev.  Rud. 
Herold,  resident  Deacon,  of  Windsheim. 


Datestone  ok  the  I'astoku's  House. 

SOM.Mi:i<HAUSEN. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  165 

"Hr  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  Jurium  Doctor  von  Erfurt  ausz 
Thiiringen,  so  sich  zu  Hn  Dr  Johann  Gelchsheimers,  consulenten 
alhie  ehl.  Dochter  verheirathet,  ist  burger  worden,  und  hat  die  ge- 
wohnliche  Pflicht  abgelegt  den  i.  Aug.  i659."^3 

Having  thus  entered  deeply  into  the  official  life  of  Winds- 
heim  with  his  only  surviving  child,  Francis,  still  in  need  of  ma- 
ternal care,  Pastorius  married  as  his  third  wife  the  widow  Bar- 
bara Greulich,  of  Hiittenheim,  January  21,  1662.  Barbara's 
maiden  name  was  Heider.  This  union  was  without  issue.  Bar- 
bara died  March  26,  1674.  The  city  chronicle  ,^^  of  Windsheim 
has  the  following  entry  for  this  year  and  month : 

"The  29th  Lady  Barbara,  the  beloved  wife  of  Burgomaster 
Pastorius  was  buried,  aged  68  years." 

Now  that  the  only  son,  Francis  Daniel,  was  prepared  for  the 
university,  the  father,  Melchior  Adam,  married,  September  22, 
1674,  as  his  fourth  and  last  wife,  Dorothea  Esther  Volckmann, 
maiden  daughter  of  Adam  Volckmann,  J.  C,  of  the  city  of  Niirn- 
berg.^^  The  City  Council  of  Windsheim  voted  ten  Reichsthaler 
as  a  wedding  present.  This  union  had  an  issue  of  four  children — 
Johann  Samuel,  who  was  born  October  15,  1675,  and  died  much 
lamented  in  the  bloom  of  youth,  October  18,  1687;  Anna  Carth- 


53  Pastorius  himself  gives  the  following  account  in  his  Itinerarium 
(p.  122a)  :  "Den  3-13  maij.  1659.  starb  Herr  lohann  Gelchsheimer  I.  V.  D. 
und  Consulent  des  H.  Rom.  Reichs  Statt  Windsh.  An  dessen  stelle  sein 
Tochtermann  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  Ordentlich  Beruflfen  worden  lauth 
Bestallungs-Notul,  und  Beschreibung  der  Aduocatur  Verrichtungen.  Den 
30.  Sept.  Anno  1659.  wurde  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  dutch  ordentliche  Wahl 
in  den  Eiissern  Rath  Stand  gewohlet." 

54  Cf  Chronica  Windsheimcnsis  II.  163  (March,  1674)  :  "Den  29.  ist  be- 
graben  worden  Frau  Barbara  Herrn  Biirgermeisters  Pastorii  Eheliebste  war 
68.  Jahr  alt." 

55  The  Chronica  Windsheimcnsis  II.  163  (Sept.,  1674),  has  the  following: 
"Den  22.  Hat  Herr  D.  und  Biirgermeister  Pastorius  mit  Jungfer  Dorothea 
Esther,  weiland  Herrn  Adam  Volckmanns,  gewesenen  Hoffraths  und  Lehen- 
vorstehers  zu  Bayreuth  nachgelasscne  Tochter  in  Stadt  Niirnberg  Hochzeit 
gehabt  und  sind  Ihnen  von  einem  Hoch  Edlen  Rath  10.  R.  thaler  verehret 
worden." 


i66  Francis  Daniel  Pastorins 

arina,  born  March  20,  1678;  Margarctha  Barbara,  born  August 
14,  1680,  and  Augustin  Adam,  born  August  5,  1682. 

The  birth  of  Johann  Samuel  had  revived  the  hoj^es  and  fam- 
ily pride  of  Melchior  Adam.  His  eldest  son,  Francis  Daniel,  was 
away  studying  at  German  universities,  and  the  father  could  now 
lay  plans  for  rearing  another  son  to  comfort  his  advancing  years. 
When  the  light  of  this  young  life  was  prematurely  extinguished, 
is  seemed  as  if  the  father's  heart  would  melt  with  grief.  He 
pours  out  his  sorrow  in  eight  anagrams  and  devotes  to  his  son's 
memory  a  dozen  or  more  poems  in  German  and  Latin  verses.  In 
like  manner  Magister  Georgius  Leonhardus  Modelius,  Rector  of 
the  school  in  Wmdsheim,  gives  expression  in  a  Latin  eulogium  ^^ 
to  his  grief  over  the  early  death  of  the  youth  full  of  hope  and 
promise.  The  most  pathetic  verses  of  the  father  are  those  en- 
titled: Genommcncr  Abschicd  Johannis  Sanmclis  Pastorii  uon 
seinern  Hcrrn  V after,  den  18  Aug.,  1687: 

Ach  hertzgelibter  Vatter  mein 
Seh't  doch  an  dise  hauth  und  Bein 
Kont  ihr  mir  dann  gar  helffen  nicht 
Eh'  mir  mein  mattes  Hertz  zerbricht. 

Der  Vatter  antworttet: 

Ach  Liebster  Sohn  ich  seh  dein  qual 
Du  iammerst  mich  ohn  maas  und  Zahl 
Von  hertzen  grund  ich  helffen  wo  It 
Wann  ich  nur  wiiste  wie  ich  solt.^'^ 

In  Windsheim  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  spent  the  last  years 
of  his  life.  He  rose  rapidly  to  the  highest  position  of  trust  in  the 
Imperial  City,  and  distinguished  himself  in  the  execution  of  his 
duties  as  well  as  by  his  pen.  The  circle  of  colleagues  and  friends 
with  which  he  had  closest  association  may  be  seen  in  the  follow- 
ing poem  entitled : 


56  Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  130a. 

57  Ibid,  p.  133a  and  b. 


^.^^^^ 


/==f 


v^ 


1  SSI 
MVS  OHNiVM 

MPER  MECF, 

CcDItSlTiNENJ 

iESVI 

Q,V£M  DiLi(iO  50LVJV1' 
IN  Q,vo  vivo 

XT 

MllLCHioKilpAM  PASTOPLlV^j.C 

^«/[o r<vv e  /^<*.    f/     X  cnodoc/'v"  ^  A<4C  tpW^^^S 

ScYlfisi    nunc    l.i^<f//vi»K    Atyna   (i^f4%'  Ibjy-  <-**jy- 


i 


Tni.K  I'AGE. — Manuscript. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastor itis  167 

Salve  Windsheimium. 
Clamat  pius  Advena  Pastor. 

Hi  sunt,  qiios  veniens  (  :ductnriis  in  Vrbe  maritam:) 

Inueni  Patres  prsepositos  Patriae 
Mercklinus  turn  Praetor  erat.     Ramminger  et  Eisen 

Cum  Neuber  Consul  Stellwagiusque  simul 
Postmodo  Knor,  Kilian,  Vitus,  Keget,  atque  loachim 

Seufferlin,  Stampffer,  lann  Vogel,  atque  Nagel 
Dienst,  Mercklein,  Vogel  et  Stellwag,  Zinck,  Scheller  Idolu 

Mercklein  cum  Weyknecht,  Neuber,  Egoque  simuL^'^^a. 

Pastorius'  honors  followed  in  quick  succession  from  "Con- 
sulent"  and  membership  in  the  "Aeusserer  Rath"  to  "Aelterer 
Biirgermeister"  and  "Oberrichter,"  as  the  following  calendar 
drawn  from  the  records  of  Windsheim  will  show : 

1659,  August  I,  took  oath  of  citizenship  as  "Consulent." 

1 66 1,  September  30,  elected  member  of  the  "Aeusserer 
Rath." 

1670,  September  27,  elected  Elder  Burgomaster.^^ 

1670,  September  29,  made  Auditor  of  Church  Accounts  and 
Landassessor.^^ 

167 1,  October  17,  made  "Wassergraf."  ®^ 
1 68 1,  made  Director  of  the  Hospital. 

1692,  September  30,  elected  "Statt  Ober  Richter."     This 


s'^^a.  Cf.    Itincrarium,  p.   6ia. 

58  The  Chronica  Windsheimcnsis  (Bd.  II.  p.  133)  has  the  following  entry 
for  September,  1670:  "Dienstag  den  27  ist.  Herr  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius 
J.  U.   D.   zum   altcrn   Biirgermeister  erwehlet  worden." 

59  Cf.  Chronica  Windsheimcnsis  (II.  138),  Sept.  29,  1670:  "Den  29  sind 
Herr  Sigmund  Nagel  und  Herr  Otto  Kunz  Feuerstatt,  wie  auch  der  letztere 
Baubesichtiger  imd  nebst  Herrn  Johann  Georg  Miiller  Caspar  Merklein, 
Siebner  Herr  Georg  Miiller  Wurzschauer  und  Herr  Biirgermeister  Pastorius 
Gotteshaus   Rechnungs-abhorer  und  Landstcurer." 

60  Cf.  Chronica  Windsheimcnsis  (II.  163),  October,  1671 :  "Herr  Bur- 
germeister  Pastorius  und  Herr  Andreas  Strampfer  Wassergrafen." 


1 68  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

election  was  confirmed  by  the  Emperor,  *^°a.with  the  award  of  the 
usual  diploma,  May  i8,  i693/'*'b.  The  oath  of  ofhce,  recorded  in 
the  Kreis-Archiv  in  Niirnberg,  with  Pastorius'  seal  affixed,  runs 
as  follows : 

Ich  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  J.  C.  dess  Innern  Raths  und 
alterer  Burs^emeister  allhier  in  des  heyl.  Reichs  Statt  Windsheim 
thue  kunth  mitt  disem  Brieff  alien  denen  die  ihn  sehen,  lesen  oder 
liorcn.  Als  mir  das  Obcr  Richter  Ampt  zu  ietzt  bemelten  Wind- 
sheimb,  (  :darzue  ich  durch  die  wohl  Edle  Veste  fiirsichtige  und 
hochweise  herren  Burgemeister  und  Rath  diser  Statt  Windsheimb 
erkieset  und  erwohlet, :)  verlihen,  vnd  fiirter  durch  den  Allerdurch- 
leuchtigsten  Grosmachtigsten  und  vniiberwindlichsten  Fiirsten  und 
herrn  herrn  Leopoldum  dieses  Nahmens  den  Ersten  Romischen 
Kayser  zu  alien  Zeitten  Mehrern  des  Reichs  x  x  Meinen  allergna- 
digsten  herren  allergnadigst  zuegesagt  und  verwilligt  ist.  Bekenne 
in  krafft  discs  Brieffs  das  ich  mich  gegen  denen  herren  Burgemei- 
stern.  Rath  und  Gemeiner  Statt  Windsheim  der  hernach  beschribenen 
Stiick  und  Articul  Verpflichtet,  Verbunden  und  Verschriben  habe, 
Verpflichte,  Verbinde,  und  Verschreibe  mich  also  in  kraflft  dieses 
Brieffs,  das  ich  mehrgenanter  Statt  Windsheimb  dero  angehorigen 
Leuten  und  Giithern  getrewlich  Vorstehen  will,  mitt  gutem,  Trewen 
und  besten  Vermogen  Iliren  frommen  zu  werben  und  ihren  Schaden 
zu  warnen,  auch  alle  gute  Recht  und  gewohnheitten  derselben  ihrer 
Statt  helffen  zu  halten,  zu  mehren  und  nicht  zu  mindern  in  keine 
Weis,  vnd  insonderheit  meines  Vermogens  daran  und  darob  sein 
das  alle  Freyheitten  und  Begnadungen  Gemeiner  Statt  von  Ro- 
mischen Kaysern  und  Koni,2:en  gegeben,  gehalten,  und  darwider  nicht 
gehandelt,  Auch  Einem  ieden  Arm :  und  Reich  gebiihrendes  Recht- 
ens  gestatt:  und  mittgetheilet  werde.  Vnd  ob  sich  kunfftig  Ver- 
fiigte.  das  ich  uor  mchrwohlgedachten  herren  Burgemeister  und 
Rath   zu  ihrer  gelegenheit  Von  demselben   Ampt   entsetzt  wiirde 


^^a.  Chronica  Windsheimensis  (II.  571),  Dec,  1692.  "Dienstags  den 
29  ist  Herr  brgstr  Pastorius  zu  einem  Obcr  Richter  eligiret,  und  den  18 
Maij.  1693.  von  Ihro  Kayln.  Majeste  confirmiret  worden.  Die  Confirma- 
tion hat  47  fl.  30  kr.  gekostet.  Quo  facto  ist  den  I4ten  7br.  1693.  Er  Pastor- 
ius, bey  ganzcm  Rath  altem  Herkommcn  nach.  untcr  hand  gegebner  Treii 
Herrn  bgrstr  Karneffern  an  Aydesstatt  bestattiget  und  an  die  Function 
eingesetzet  worden." 

^^h.  Cf.   Liber  Intimissiiuus. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  169 

(  :welches  Sye  dann  ieder  Zeit  zu  thun,  auch  mich  zii  entsetzen,  und 
Einen  andern  an  meine  Statt  nach  ihrem  wohlgefallen  und  nach 
ausweis  ihrer  Priuilegien  ihnen  dariiber  g-egeben,  zu  erwohlen  und 
aufif  zunehmen  macht  haben  das  ich  ohne  irrung  und  Eintrag  Mein : 
und  manniglichs  uon  meinetwegen,  dessen  gewarttig  sein,  mich 
auch  mit  Keinem  Behelff  noch  Auszug  wie  mann  die  erdencken  und 
fijrnehmen  mocht,  darwider  nicht  suchen.  Auch  Einen  Wohl  Edlen 
Rath  an  Ihren  Rathshandlungen,  Ordnungen,  Wahl  und  in  andere 
Weg  keinen  Eintrag  widersprechen  oder  hindernuss  nicht  thun,  son- 
dern  mich  allein  dess  halten  soil  und  will,  was  mir  in  Krafft  meines 
Ober  Richter  Ampts  zu  thun,  und  auszurichten  gebiihrt,  getrewlich 
und  ohne  alles  gefahrde. 

Vnd  das  Jch  obgenanter  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  Alles  was 
hierinnen  geschriben,  Vnd  Eines  wohledlen  Raths  habende  Frey- 
heiten  einuerleibt,  steth,  Vest,  und  Vnuerbriichlich  halten  soil  und 
will,  habe  ich  offtermelten  Burgmeister  und  Rath  zu  Windsheim 
mitt  hand  gebenden  Trewen  gelobt,  Auch  zu  wahrer  Vrkunth  disen 
Reuers  mitt  eigenen  handen  Vnterschriben,  und  mein  gewohnlich 
eigen  Insiegel  hier  Vorgedruckt. 

So  geben  und  geschehen  Donnerstags  den  15.  September  Jm 
Jahr  nach  Christi  Vnsers  Erlosers  und  Seligmachers  Geburth  1693. 

L.  S.  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  J.  C. 

Revers 
Burgemeister  Ober  Richters 
Melchioris  Adami  Pastorij. 

All  efforts  to  locate  the  house  in  which  Pastorius  lived  in 
Windsheim  proved  fruitless.  It  is  said  that  the  house  stood  near 
the  city  wall,  which  has  been  torn  down.  The  following  refer- 
ences were  found  to  property  held  or  used  by  hmi.  The  first  is 
from  January  of  the  year  1680,  stating  that  two  vacant  places 
alongside  the  armory,  where  formerly  the  dwellings  of  Barthol 
Diepolt  and  Melchior  Schwartz  stood,  were  turned  over  to  Bur- 
gomaster Pastorius  for  his  use  under  certain  conditions. ^^     The 


61  Cf.  Chronica  Windsheimensis  (II.  427),  January,  1680:  "Den  9.  sind 
Herrn  Brgstr  Pastorio,  nach  einem  ausgefertigten  Versicherungs  Schein,  D 
2 :  Oeden  Hauspliitz,  neben  dem  Zcughaus,  worauf  ehedesscn  Barthol  Die- 
polts  und  Melchior  Schwartzens  Behausungen  gestanden,  auf  gewisse  Con- 
dition zu  usurpiren,  und  Dasz  Ihnen  ein  Dill  Darumb  zu  machen  erlaubt  seyn 
solle,  iiberlassen  werden."  .  .   ,        „  ..,»... 


lyo  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

second  is  from  November,  1695,  stating  that  this  ground  is  ceded 
to  Pastorius  with  the  understanding  that  he  build  a  small  house 
on  it.^- 

The  last  years  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  in  Windsheim 
were  fraught  with  domestic  troubles,  which  finally  led  to  official 
friction  and  forced  him  to  change  his  residence. 

The  account  given  in  the  Chronica  Windsheimensis  ^^  allows 
us  to  read  much  between  the  lines.  In  the  first  place  we  see  evi- 
dence of  local,  social  and  religious  cabal.  The  first  mistake  was 
made  by  his  wife  Dorothea  Esther  (Volckmann)  when  she  cir- 
culated pasquills  and  induced  her  husband  to  interfere  in  the 
religious  affairs  of  Windsheim,  for  which  he  paid  severe  and 
humiliating  penalty.  The  social-religious  strife  naturally  passed 
over  into  city  politics,  and  Pastorius,  now  advanced  beyond  his 
three  score  years  and  ten,  was  unable  to  make  aggressive  defense. 
It  is  in  a  word  another  illustration  of  the  danger  of  female  squab- 
bles and  corroborates  the  adage  "Cherchez  la  femme." 

The  result  of  this  unpleasantness  and  humiliation  was  that 
Pastorius  squared  his  account  with  a  1000  Reichsthaler  and 
moved  away  from  Windsheim,  going  first  to  Neustadt  (on-tlie- 
Aisch)  and  thence  to  Niirnberg.  Here  he  took  up  his  residence 
in  a  small  villa  outside  of  the  city  wall,  in  front  of  the  New  Gate, 


62  Cf.  Chronica  Windsheimensis  (II.  616),  November,  1695:  "Den  i.  sind 
Herrn  Ober-Richtcrn  Pastorio  die  biszhero  von  Ihm  usufructuarie  in  Besitz 
gehabtc  ode  Hofraith  bcytn  Zcughaus,  gegen  die  oflfcrierte  aufbauung  eines 
Hauslcins,  aigcnthiimlich  cediret  worden." 

(••'   Cf.  Chronica   IVindsliciinoisis,  October  1-28,   i6g6. 

Christian  Wilhclm  Schirmcr  in  his  Geschichtc  IVindsheims  und  seiner 
Nachbarortc  (Niirnberg,  Ric.cc  in  Wiessnc  (1848)  says  simply  that  Pastorius 
moved  to  Niirnberg  "wegcn  Verdriesslichkcitcn  mit  dem  hiesigen  Rath." 
Schirmcr's  statement  that  Pastorius  first  met  his  wife,  Eva  Margaretha  Gelchs- 
hcimcr,  at  her  father's  funeral  is  incorrect.  Dr.  Gelchsheimer  died  May  3, 
1659,  nearly  a  year  after  Margaretha  married  Pastorius  (Feb.  9,  1658). 


i 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  171 

belonging  to  the  Marquis  of  Brandenburg.^'*  His  two  daughters*'^ 
married  and  lived  in  Niirnberg  during  the  last  four  years  of  his 
life.  Pastorius  died  in  this  villa,  February  4,  1702,  at  the  ripe 
age  of  yy  years.  He  lies  buried  in  the  old  St.  Johannes  Kirchhof, 
in  Niirnberg,  between  the  chapel  and  the  nearest  gate,  in  a  place 
described  locally  as  "Ta  man  predigt"  (Wo  man  predigt,  i.  e., 
where  the  funeral  sermon  is  preached).  The  grave  is  marked  by 
a  thick  sand  stone  slab,  upon  which  the  following  epitaph  is  to  be 
found  enclosed  in  an  oval  in  the  old  style  of  the  Niirnberg  patri- 
cians : 

"Der  Wohl  Edle  Vest  und  Hochgelahrte  Herr  Melchior  Adam 
Pastorius  ICtus,  Wie  auch  Hoch  Fiirstl :  Brandenburg-Bayreuthi- 
scher  Rath  ist  seelig  in  den  Herrn  entschlafen  Ac  1702.  den  4  Feb- 
ruarij  seines  Alt:  yy  Jahr  u.  19.  Woche."^^ 

The  career  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  is  remarkable, 
not  only  for  the  fifty  years  of  long  service  in  the  practice  of 
his  profession  in  Sommerhausen  and  Windsheim,  but  it  is 
significant,  because  of  his  literary  activity  as  a  writer  of  prose 
and  verse.  His  verse  reflects,  in  a  most  interesting  manner,  the 
literary  traditions  of  the  first  Silesian  School  of  Poets,  and  in 
point  of  smoothness  compares  favorably  with  the  best  poetry 
of  Martin  Opitz  of  Boberfeld,  or  Simon  Dach,  or  Paul  Fleni- 
ming.  In  spirit  he  approaches  most  nearly  the  lyric  tone  of 
Flemming,  while  in  his  fondness  for  occasional  themes  he  sug- 
gests Dach, 

Pastorius  was  a  very  prolific  writer  both  in  Latin  and  in 
German,  and  left  in  addition  to  his  printed  works  much  matter 
in  manuscript.  In  his  Lihcr  Intimissimits  we  find  a  list  of 
some  seventy  books,  presumably  the  essential  part  of  his  library.*^^ 


64  Cf.  F.  D.   Pastorius'   Genealogical  Sketch. 

65  Anna  Catharina,  who  married  Matthias  Wehrseim,  Secretary  of 
Niirnberg,  December  6,  1698,  and  Margaretha  Barbara,  who  married  the  same 
day  Georg  Richard  Hammer,  J.  U.  D.,  of  Niirnberg  (F.  D.  Pastorius'  Gene- 
alogical Sketch). 

66  Cf.  accompanying  illustration. 

67  Cf.  the  list  at  the  end  of  the  chapter. 

(To  be  Continued.) 


SOME  UNPUBLISHED  LONGFELLOW  LETTERS/ 

No  other  American  poet,  perhaps,  has  ever  had  a  knowl- 
edge of  so  many  living  languages  as  Longfellow,  and  certainly 
few  have  been  personally  acquamted  with  so  many  prominent 
men  of  their  time  as  he.  Longfellow  knew  personally  a  great 
number  of  the  eminent  men  in  England,  Germany,  Italy,  France, 
Holland,  Sweden,  and  Denmark.  He  was  on  very  friendly  terms 
with  the  poet  Freiligrath,-  and  corresponded  with  Rafn,  Carlyle, 
Dickens,  Victor  Hugo,  and  a  host  of  other  scientific  and  literary 
men  in  almost  every  country  of  Europe.  His  four  visits  to 
that  continent  made  this  wide  acquaintance  possible.  Especially 
on  his  last  visit  to  the  Old  World  he  was  received  with  marked 
attention  and  his  acquaintance  was  eagerly  sought.^  He  kept 
up  an  extensive  correspondence,  and  his  letters  are  therefore 
numerous  and  scattered  over  a  wide  territory.  A  large  number 
have  already  been  collected  and  published.  Together  with  his 
journals  they  form  a  very  complete  story  of  the  poet's  life, 
and  the  lives  of  few  literary  men  are  so  well  known  as  that 


'  The  following  introduction  and  notes  are  based  on  a  paper  on  "The 
Relation  of  Longfellow  to  the  Scandinavian  Literatures",  soon  to  be  pub- 
lished in  full ;  read  at  a  special  Longfellow  programme  before  the  Germanic 
Association  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  A  short  abstract  is  pub- 
lished in  "Valkyrian"  (New  York),  for  May.  Among  men  in  this  country 
who  have  given  me  suggestions  in  my  study  of  this  question,  I  take  pleasure 
in  mentioning  in  this  preliminary  note,  Prof.  M.  D.  Learned,  Prof.  C.  G. 
Child,  my  friend  and  former  teacher,  Prof.  A.  J.  Pearson,  of  St.  Peter, 
Minn.,  Rev.  E.  A.  Zetterstrand,  of  Naugatuck,  Conn.,  and  G.  N.  Swan. 

2  Cf.  M.  D.  Learned's  article  on  "Ferdinand  Freiligrath  in  America"  in 
"Amerkana  Germanica,"  L  p.  69  (Old  S.). 

3  Cf.  Life  of  Longfellow  with  Extracts  fr.  his  Journals.  Ed.  by  S.  Long- 
fellow (Boston,  1893),  III,  no  ff.  also  "Auld  Lang  Syne",  by  M.  Miiller,  p. 
181. 

^T>^    (172) 


Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters  173 

of  Longfellow.  But  there  are  still  more  letters  to  be  published, 
and  there  are  yet  a  few  things  to  be  said  about  our  author. 

The  time  is  passed  when  the  college  boy  will  'sit  at  the  open 
window  every  New  Year's  Eve  and  read  aloud  Longfellow's  'Mid- 
night Mass  for  the  Dying  Year,'  "•*  and  his  direct  influence  on 
the  literature  of  our  time  is  practically  nil.  And,  although  he 
has  lately  been  called  our  "Poet  Laureate,"  and  is  said  to  be  the 
best  known  of  our  American  writers,  we  cannot  escape  the  fact 
that  the  great  bulk  of  his  works  is  not  read  by  the  present 
generation,  and  except  for  a  few  popular  poems,  which  un- 
doubtedly are  as  immortal  as  any  work  of  man  can  ever  be, 
he  is  rapidly  passing  over  to  that  group  of  worthies  who  are 
more  talked  about  than  read. 

The  position  of  Longfellow,  however,  as  one  of  the  most 
important  forces  in  the  formative  period  of  our  literature  and 
culture  is  secure,  and  he  deserves,  I  think,  to  stand  at  the  head 
of  the  eight  or  nine  greatest  men  of  letters  of  his  time  and 
country,  not  alone,  and  not  principally  even,  for  the  perma- 
nent contribution  he  has  made  to  the  literature  of  the  world 
or  of  his  nation,  but  for  the  lasting  influence  for  good  he  has 
had  on  our  civilization  and  culture.'' 

Longfellow  has  been  accused  of  plagiarism.  But  whenever 
he  has  had  a  model,  his  poem  bears  somewhat  the  same  relation 
to  this  model  as  the  Aeneid  does  to  the  works  of  Homer,  or  Mil- 
ton's works  to  his  models  and  predecessors.  It  is  just  as  impossi- 
ble to  think  of  Longfellow  without  Riickert  and  Goethe  and 
Novalis  and  Brentano  and  the  rest  of  them  as  it  is  to  think 
of  Shakespeare  without  Marlowe  and  Green  and  Lyly  and 
the  other  predecessors.  Longfellow  takes  from  others,  but  the 
material  is  always  passed  through  the  furnace  of  his  own  soul 


4  "Cheerful  Yesterdays",  by  T.  W.  Higginson,  p.  67.     Higginson  has  in- 
correctly "Midnight  Mass  to  the  Dying  Year." 

5  Cf.  Walt  Whitman's  remark  about  Longfellow  in  "Walt  Whitman",  by 
Bliss  Perry,  p.  334  (Boston,  1906). 


174  Some  Unpublished  Longfelloiv  Letters 

and  moulded  into  his  own  form.  He  absorbed  the  culture  of  many- 
nations  and  gave  it  through  the  medium  of  his  poetry  to  the 
American  people.  He  thereby  performed  one  of  his  greatest 
services  to  our  literature  and  made  one  of  his  most  lasting 
contributions  to  our  thought  and  civilization.  Anything  that 
helps  to  throw  light  on  his  relation  to  foreign  poets  and  their 
works  is  also  an  aid  in  determining  the  direct  and  indirect 
source  of  many  of  his  poems,  and  explaining  many  of  those 
trends  and  currents  that  were  and  are  directing  and  moulding 
forces  in  our  national  life  and  literature.  The  letters  that  are 
here  printed  (all  for  the  first  time  in  an  English  journal,  so  far  as 
I  know),*'  are  of  some  value,  I  think,  at  least  of  interest,  as  con- 
tributing to  the  knowledge  of  Longfellow's  relation  to  foreign 
authors  and  their  works. 

When  Longfellow  sailed  for  Europe,  May  15th,  1826,  his 
intention  was  to  study  the  languages  and  literatures  of  France, 
Spam,  Italy,  and  Germany.  On  June  15th  he  landed  in  France. 
From  here  he  went  to  Spain,  and  on  the  nth  of  February,  1828, 
he  "entered  Rome  under  the  bright  rays  of  a  noonday  sun.""^ 
At  Rome  he  found  a  friend,  Mr.  Greene,  living  with  the  Per- 
sianis,  and  writes  that  he  went  into  the  same  famdy.^'*  At  this 
time  a  young  Swedish  poet,  Karl  August  Nicander,'-*  was  so- 
journing in  Rome.  Nicander  had  been  in  Rome  for  some  time 
when  Longfellow  arrived  there,  and  was  a  special  friend  of 
the  Persian!   family  and  a  constant  visitor  in  their  hospitable 


c  Three  of  them  were  exploited  in  "Prarieblomman"  for  1906,  as  was 
pointed  out  to  me  by  the  Librarian  Lundstedt,  of  the  Royal  Library,  Stock- 
holm. 

1  Life,  I,  p.  142. 

8  Ibid,  p.  143. 

9  Born  at  Strangniis,  1799,  died  at  Stockholm,  1839.  His  most  popular 
works  are  "Runesvdrdet",  "Hcspcrider",  "Tassos  dod",  "Vagen",  "Runor  of 
Norna-Gest".  He  was  a  poet  of  great  talent  and  has  produced  some  of  the 
finest  sonnets  and  ballads  in  the  Swedish  language.  Extracts  from  them 
have  been  translated  into  English. 


Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters  175 

home.^*^  It  is  therefore  likely  that  Longfellow  made  his  ac- 
quaintance very  soon  after  the  nth  of  February,  perhaps  on 
the  evening  of  the  nth,  and  not  as  Samuel  Longfellow  has  it 
some  two  months  later  during  a  visit  to  Naples. ^^  At  any  rate 
the  two  poets  were  acquainted  on  the  2d  of  March,  and  were 
almost  daily  companions  in  viewing  the  parades  and  buffooneries 
of  the  carnival  at  Rome  in  the  spring  of  1828.^-  Li  April 
Longfellow  made  a  trip  to  Naples  and  on  his  return  to  Rome 
in  June,  it  seems  that  Nicander  set  out  on  the  same  jour- 
ney. Longfellow  was  dangerously  ill  when  Nicander  returned 
to  Rome,  and  as  soon  as  he  was  strong  enough,  he  removed  to 
the  village  of  Ariccia,  where  he  passed  a  month  "in  the  wedge- 
shaped  Casa  Antonini  at  the  junction  of  the  streets."^"  In  the 
fall  he  returned  to  Rome  and  the  associations  of  the  two  poets 
were  renewed.  On  December  9th,  1828,  Longfellow  left  Rome 
and  his  friends  there,  and  after  a  short  sojourn  in  Germany 
he  returned  to  America.  Nicander  left  Rome  about  the  mid- 
dle of  March  the  following  year  and  returned  to  his  home  in 
the  North. 

In  1835  Longfellow  made  his  second  visit  to  Europe.  His 
special  object  was  to  study  the  Scandinavian  and  German  lan- 
guages. On  June  28th  he  arrived  at  the  Swedish  capital.  A 
few  days  later  his  wife  writes:  "He  [Longfellow]  had  an- 
ticipated great  pleasure  in  meeting  here  a  friend,  a  Swedish 
poet,  whom  he  became  acquainted  with  in  Rome.  He  left  town 
a  week  before  we  arrived.  It  was  a  sad  disappointment."^^ 
This  Swedish  poet  was,  of  course,  Nicander.  Nicander,  as  I 
take  it,  was  now  living  with  his  mother  and  sister  in  Nykoping, 
and  after  a  short  stay  there  he  went  to  live  with  his  friend 


10  See  "Svc.  Aha.  Hand,  fran  1886",  page  168. 

11  See  Life,  I,  147.    On  page  211  there  is  of  course  a  misprint:    "Nican- 
der he  had  met  in  Italy  in  1829."     The  year  was  1828. 

12  Cf.  Life,  I,  143,  150  and  "Sve.  Aka.  Hand!,  fran  1886",  169. 

13  See  Life,  I,   149. 

14  See  Letters  of  Mrs.  Longfellozu,  Harper's  Magazine,  Vol.  106,  p.  785. 


176  Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters 

and  patron,  Baron  Hamilton,  at  Boo.^^  He  did  not  return  to 
Stockholm  before  the  following  year,  and  the  two  poets  never 
met  after  their  parting  in  Italy. 

In  Sweden  Longfellow  became  acquainted  with  the  Libra- 
rian Schroder  and  a  number  of  other  prominent  men.  August 
26th  he  left  Stockholm  for  Gothenborg,  where  he  remained  ten 
days,  and  on  September  loth  he  arrived  at  Copenhagen,  tiere 
he  w'as  also  well  received  and  on  the  nomination  of  Prof.  Rafn 
was  made  a  member  of  the  "Kongl.  Nordiske  Oldkriftselskab."^^ 

Longfellow  missed  the  opportunity  of  meeting  Tegner,  the 
Scandanavian  poet  whom  he  most  admired  and  whose  works  had 
great  influence  on  his  own  poetry.  In  1837  Longfellow  trans- 
lated parts  of  "Frithiof's  Saga,"  and  wrote  an  analysis  and 
paraphrase  of  the  famous  poem  for  the  July  number  of  the 
North  American  Rcviezv.  February  28th,  1838,  Longfellow  sent 
a  copy  of  the  magazine  to  Bishop  Tegner  and  wrote  the  letter 
printed  here.  In  1841  Tegner  answered  this  letter  and  spoke 
very  favorably  of  the  translated  fragments.  He  says:  "The 
only  thing  I  have  against  the  translation  is  that  it  is  not  com- 
plete, and  it  is  to  this  [purpose]  I  take  the  liberty  to  urge  the 
Professor,  so  that  I  can  say  that  'Frithiof  is  well  translated 
into  one  language  at  least". 


15  Longfellow's  remark  "I  should  certainly  go  to  Nykoping  to  see  you" 
seems  to  me  to  indicate  that  Nicander  now  (June  29,  1835,  see  letter)  was 
living  at  Nykoping  and  not  at  Boo,  as  it  is  sometimes  stated.  In  the  same 
letter  of  June  29th,  Longfellow  writes:  "Will  you  have  the  goodness  to 
inform  me  where  you  intend  to  pass  the  summer?"  In  answer  to  this 
Nicander  most  likely  informed  him  that  he  would  soon  go  to  Boo  to  live, 
for  on  July  Toth  Longfellow  writes  :  "How  long  do  you  intend  to  remain  at 
Boo?",  and  "will  it  not  be  possible  for  us  to  be  together  after  your  return 
from  the  Ilamiltonia  viiicggiatura?"  Since  tlie  above  was  written  Rev. 
Zetterstrand,  of  Naugatuck,  Connecticut,  one  of  the  best  informed  scholars 
in  this  country  in  Swedish  literature,  writes  me  that  he  is  of  the  opinion 
that  Nicander  at  this  time  lived  at  Boo. 

16  The  present  secretary  of  the  Society,  Dr.  Sophus  Miiller,  writes  me 
"at  han  [Longfellow]  forste  Gang  niivnes  i  Medlemslisten  for  1836". 


Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters  177 

Letters  addressed  to  Karl  August  Nicander. 

(Originals  are  now  preserved  in  the  Royal  Library  at 
Stockholm,  Sweden,  among  "Letters  to  and  from  Karl  August 
Nicander."  )i^ 

Rome,  June  10,  1828. 
My  dear  friend. 

I  received  with  the  greatest  pleasure  yours  of  the  6th,  inclosing 
a  letter  of  introduction  to  a  friend  of  yours  in  Bonn,  for  which  I 
beg  you  to  receive  my  warmest  thanks.  I  am  very  well  pleased  to 
hear,  that  you  are  divertmg  yourself  at  Naples,  and  hope  that  you 
will  be  as  much  delighted  with  Bale  and  Puzzol-Vesuvius,  and  the 
Tomb  of  Virgil,  as  I  was.  Indeed  I  hardly  know  a  spot  of  more 
interest  to  the  poet,  than  Naples  and  its  environs.  It  is  a  scene  that 
the  Poets  of  other  days  loved  to  consecrate  by  filling  it  with  the 
beings  of  their  own  imagination : — and  One  of  them — perhaps  the 
sweetest  of  all — sleeps  amid  the  scenes  he  loved  in  life,  and  hallows 
in  death. IS 

In  return  for  the  good  news  you  send  us  of  yourself  and  your 
doings,  I  am  very  happy  to  inform  you,  that  Madam  Julia  has  almost 
entirely  recovered  from  the  wound  in  her  foot,  and  walks  about  as 
merrily  as  ever.  This  is  the  most  important  information,  that  I 
can  send  you  from  Rome — and  I  think  with  all  your  friendship  for 
Julia,  you  could  not  desire  better  news  than  this.^'-^ 

I  assure  you — my  dear  friend — that  the  "voce  secreta"  which 
whispered  you  that  we  should  meet  again,  told  you  no  false  tale. 
If  you  return  from  Naples  as  soon  as  you  intended,  when  you  left 
us — we  shall  meet  once  more  in  the  "Eternal  City," — because  I  have 
concluded  to  remain  here  until  the  second  week  in  July .20 

Good  bye.  Amuse  yourself  well,  and  return  soon.  Julia — 
Madame  Persiani — and  all  the  family  send  their  best  regards  to  you, 
and  wish  you  all  the  amusement,  which  can  possibly  be  drawn  from 


1'^  I  am  under  special  obligation  to  Dr.  Karlsson,  of  the  Royal  Library, 
and  Mr.  Stroh,  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  now  studying  in  Sweden, 
for  valuable  aid  rendered  both  during  my  stay  at  Stockholm,  and  after- 
wards. 

19  Nicander's  feelings  for  Julia  seem  to  have  been  of  more  than  a  friendly 
nature.  Several  expressions  in  his  prose  and  poetry,  as  pointed  out  by  Dr. 
Wirsen,  seem  to  show  that  the  young  poet  was  deeply  in  love  with  the 
beautiful  Italian  girl. 

20  This  lingering  in  Rome  became  very  disastrous  to  the  poet.  Cf.  Life, 
I,  149  flf. 


178  Soy7ie  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters 

the  scenes  around  you.  For  my  own  part,  I  send  you  my  best  wishes 
and  a  warm  return  for  the  friendly  sentiments  you  expressed  for 
me  in  your  letter.  In  the  hoj^e  of  hearing-  from  you  again — of  soon 
seeing  you  in  Rome, — I  am,  affectionately  and  respectfully 

yours, 

Henry  W.  Longfellow .2^ 

Stockholm,  June  29,  1835. 
My  dear  Sir  : 

I  trust  you  have  not  forgotten  Rome — the  Piazza  Madama — 
and  your  American  friend  who  lived  in  the  casa  Persiani.  If  you 
have  not,  I  know,  that  you  will  not  be  sorry  to  hear,  that  he  is  now 
in  your  father-land. 

In  fact,  I  have  come  to  Sweden  to  pass  the  summer ;  and  reached 
Stockholm  yesterday.  I  can  hardly  express  to  you  my  extreme 
regret,  at  finding  you  absent  from  town;  and  had  I  not  a  wife  and 
two  young  ladies  with  me,-^  I  should  certainly  go  to  Nykoping  to 
see  you. -2 

My  object,  in  visiting  Sweden,  is  to  study  its  language  and 
literature.  I  need  your  advice  upon  this  subject;  for  in  choosing 
my  place  of  residence,  I  wish  to  study  economy  as  well  as  conveni- 
ence. Had  I  better  remain  here  or  go  to  Upsala?  or  whither  shall 
I  go? 

Will  you  have  the  goodness  to  inform  me  where  you  intend  to 
pass  the  summer,  and  when  you  shall  probably  return  to  Stockholm, 
and  to  give  me  any  information  you  think  may  be  useful  in  refer- 
ence to  lodgings  &c  &c  here  in  Sweden? 

I  write  these  few  lines  in  haste,  not  knowing  whether  they  will 
even  reach  you,  and  yet  hoping  to  hear  from  you  before  many  days 
have  elapsed. 

Very  truly  your  friend  and  Obt.  Sert. 

Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

Please  direct  to  the  care  of  D.  Erskine,  American  Consul, 
Stockholm.2* 


21  The  letter  is  written  on  three  pages  (4°),  on  the  fourth  is  the  ad- 
iress :  A  Monsieur  Monsieur  Charles  A.  Nicander.  Naples,  Poste  Restante. 

22  Cf.  Mrs.  Longfellow's  letters  published  in  Harper's  Magazine. 

-3  Nykoping,  where  Nicander  was  staying  at  the  time  as  it  seems,  is  a 
a  small  manufacturing  town  south  (a  little  to  west)  of  Stockholm,  situated 
on  the  coast.     See  "Sweden",  by  Sundbiirg  (Stockh.,  1904),  p.  94,  772,  948. 

2*  The  letter  is  written  on  two  pages  (4°),  on  fourth  page  is  the  address 
as   follows : 

a  Monsieur  Monsieur  Carl   Aug.   Nicander,   Nykoping. 


Some  Unpiiblished  Longfellow  Letters  1 79 

Stockholm,  July  10,  1835. 
MtN  KARE  Van  !  ^^ 

I  was  very  happy  to  receive  your  friendly  letter  of  the  6th  and 
should  have  sent  you  an  immediate  answer  by  the  return  of  post, 
had  I  been  able  to  get  the  necessary  information,  relative  to  the 
facilities  of  going  to  Nykoping  by  water.  I  am  sorry  to  say,  that 
the  answer  to  my  inquiries  is  not  very  satisfactory.  I  find  that  the 
steam-boat  goes  but  once  a  week,  and  that  in  order  to  accomplish 
the  journey  and  return  to  Stockholm,  I  should  have  to  be  absent  a 
whole  week  or  more,  from  my  family.-*^  Much  as  I  want  to  see 
you,  therefore,  I  have  been  obliged  to  give  up  the  idea  of  going  to 
Nykoping.  How  much  I  regret  this! —  The  difficulty  is,  that  the 
"wife  and  two  young  ladies"  do  not  speak  Swedish,  and  very  little 
French — so  that  I  could  not  leave  them  here  in  a  strange  land  with- 
out a  protector.  Now.  can  you  not  so  arrange  your  affairs  as  to 
come  to  Stockholm  for  a  few  days  without  great  inconvenience  to 
yourself?  If  you  can — I  shall  be  delighted: — but  if  you  cannot — I 
must  submit  to  the  disappointment  I  shall  feel ;  though  a  "still, 
small  voice"  within  says,  that  I  shall  certainly  see  you  before  I  leave 
Sweden.  i'i 

Apropos  dc  bofics!  How  long  do  you  intend  to  remain  at  Boo^ 
I  shall  be  here  and  in  Upsala  till  the  middle  of  September — unless 
something  new  occurs  to  change  my  plans.  I  am  much  pleased  with 
"Sveriges  hufvudstad  den  stora  staden  Stockholm"  and  have  lodg- 
ings at  No.  22  Drottninggatan.-^  Will  it  not  be  possible  for  us  to 
be  together  after  your  return  from  the  Hamiltonian  villeggiatura  ? 

And  now  I  will  satisfy  your  curiosity  about  the  mysterious 
ladies.  Whose  wife  do  you  please  to  imagine  I  am  living  with,  if 
not  with  my  ozvn?  _I  have  been  married  now  nearly  four  years,  but 
have  no  children  living.  The  two  young  ladies  are  friends  of  my 
wife,  who  have  taken  this  opportunity  to  visit  Europe.  Our  present 
plan  is  to  pass  the  summer  here — the  winter  in  Germany,  and  the 
next  summer  in  Copenhagen. '^  The  object  of  this  my  second  visit 
to  Europe  is  wholly  literary.  I  am  studying  the  Scandinavian  lan- 
guages and  literature;  as  I  occupy  at  home  the  Chair  of  Modern 


25  My  Dear  Friend. 

2C  His  wife  and  two  of  her  friends  were  along.     Cf.  Life,  I,  207. 

27  About  August  1st  he  moved  to  Klara  Sodra  Kyrkogatan  No.  5,  and 
this  house  is  still  standing.  House  No.  22  on  Drottninggatan  was  torn  down 
in  1890  and  a  new,  beautiful  one  erected  on  the  site. 

28  These  plans  were  not  carried  out.  Cf.  Life,  I,  234  ff.  Higginson's 
"Life  of  Longfellotif' ,  p.  92  fif. 


i8o  Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters 

Literature  and  Belles  Lettres  in  one  of  the  Universities: — which  by 
the  way,  has  been  the  case  ever  since  I  left  you  in  Rome.-^ 

So  much  for  me  and  my  doings.  And  I  know  likewise  what 
you  have  been  doing;  for  I  have  now  upon  my  table  your  "Hes- 
perider,"  "Alinnen  fran  Sodern"  and  "Runesvardet."  I  congratu- 
late you,  my  friend,  on  your  great  literary  success ;  and  the 
praises  I  hear  of  you  from  all  mouths.  I  would  fain  add  my  own 
to  these;  but  alas!  I  am  not  yet  sufficiently  master  of  your  language, 
to  render  my  opinion  of  any  value.  I  can  only  say,  that  I  have  read 
several  of  your  papers  with  the  greatest  pleasure. 

I  trust,  that  if  it  is  impossible  for  you  to  come  to  Stockholm 
at  present,  I  shall  have  the  consolation  of  hearing  from  you  often. 
I  hoped  that  I  should  find  you  passing  the  summer  in  Stockholm; 
but  as  this  cannot  be,  let  me  know,  where  you  are,  and  how  you  are 
passing  your  time ;  as  much  in  detail  as  possible. 

I  have  some  friends  here,  who  are  very  kind  and  attentive, — 
particularly  the  Antiquarian,  Mr.  Liljogren.^o  I  know  also  Mr. 
Arvidsson  of  the  Royal  Library^i — and  one  or  two  of  the  Upsala 
Professors.    Old  Mr.  Lignell  is  my  instructor  in  Swedish.22 

Where  the  deuce  is  BooP^  I  cannot  find  it  on  the  map — nor 
the  province  of  Nerike^'*  either.     Please  enlighten  my  darkness. 

Most  truly  yr.  friend 
Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

29  Statement  of  course  slightly  inaccurate.     Cf.  Life,  I,  234  ff. 

30  John  Gustaf  Liljegren  (1789-1837).  See  "Nordisk  Fameljebok"  IX, 
291;  "Svenskt  Biog.  Handlexicon"  (Stockh.,  1876),  I,  588. 

31  Adolf  Ivar  Arvidson.  A  writer  of  great  productivity.  See  "Sv.  Biog. 
Handlexicon",  I,  54;  "Hordisk  Pameljcbok"  (2d.  ed.),  H,  122;  "Biog.  Lexi- 
con", I,  261 ;  "Adolf  Ivar  Arvidson  som  vitter  forfattare." 

32  Cf.  Life,  T,  p.  210. 

33  Boo  (sometimes  "Bo"),  is  the  name  of  a  great  many  places  in  Sweden. 
Twenty-six  (26)  are  given  in  the  "Geografiskt-Statisiikt  Handlexicon  ofver 
Sverige"  (by  C.  M.  Rosenberg),  I,  143-43.  Bo  comes  from  the  old  Swedish 
word  bol,  meaning  dwelling,  etc.  As  a  rule  in  modern  Swedish  it  means  to 
reside,  to  live,  etc.  As  a  noun  it  has  several  meanings  as  abode,  goods,  etc. 
In  law  it  refers  to  chattel,  inheritance,  etc.  See  "Svensk  Civelrdtt"  (by  Win- 
rot),  II,  59  ff. 

The  Boc^  Longfellow  refers  to  is  a  "fidiekommiss"  in  Oerbero  Ian.  In 
1903  it  was  taxed  for  the  sum  of  1,712,700  kr.  It  is  located  in  a  most  beauti- 
ful and  picturesque  region  (See  "Handlexicon",  I.  144).  Nicander  spent 
over  a  year  at  Boo  with  his  friend,  H.  Hamilton,  the  owner  of  the  estate. 
During  this  time  he  wrote  part  of  his  "Minncn  fran  Sodern".  The  present 
owner  of  Boo,  if  my  source  is  correct,  is  H.  D.  Hamilton. 

3*  Nerike    is    one    of    the    old    historical    provinces    of    Sweden     (Cf. 


Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters  i8i 

Letter  addressed  to'  Esaias  Tegner. 

(Original,   preserved   at   the   University   Library  of  Lund, 

Sweden.  )^^ 

Harvard  University,  Cambridge, 

U.  S.  America,  Feb.  21,  1838. 
Reverend  Sir  -.^^ 

The  greatest  regret  I  felt  on  leaving  your  country,  which  I  vis- 
ited in  the  year  1835,  was,  that  I  had  found  no  opportunity  of  mak- 
ing your  acquaintance.  Your  writings  were  among  the  first  I  read 
in  Swedish ;  and  I  hardly  need  say,  are  those  which  most  delight  me. 

I  herewith  send  you  a  No.  of  our  principal  Literary  Review.^'^ 
You  will  find  in  it  an  attempt  to  convey  to  my  countrymen  some  idea 
of  your  great  poem.  "Frithiofs  Saga ;"  at  best  a  feeble  idea,  and  yet, 
perhaps,  better  than  could  have  been  obtained  by  them  otherwise :  for 
the  Swedish  Language  is  almost  wholly  unknown  here,  and  the  only 
English  Translation  of  "Frithiof,"  which  has  reached  this  coun- 
try is  the  Anonymous  one,  which  is  worthy  of  no  praise,  and  which, 
as  you  will  see,  I  have  not  hesitated  to  condemn.^^ 

I  am  sorry,  that  my  own  task  has  not  been  executed  more 
worthily.  But  such  as  it  is,  I  take  the  liberty  of  sending  it  to  you ; 
that  you  may  know  your  fame  has  reached  our  distant  land:  and 


"Sweden",  by  Sundbarg,  Stockholm,  1904,  p.  3-4),  and  is  not  indicated  on 
all  maps.  Its  area  is  4,347  sq.  k.  and  its  population  in  1900  was  120,000. 
See  "Sweden",  p.  3.  It  practically  corresponds  to  Oerbero  Ian.  See 
"Sweden",  p.  94.  The  province  is  no  longer  of  importance  from  an  admin- 
istrative point  of  view,  and  its  place  is  taken  by  the  "Ian",  hence  most  maps 
indicate  only  the  "Ian". 

35  Copy  made  for  me  through  the  courtesy  of  Dr.  C.  of  Petersens,  the 
Librarian,  during  my  stay  at  Lund,  in  the  fall  of  1906. 

36  E.  Tegner,  perhaps  the  most  famous  poet  of  Sweden,  and  one  of 
the  greatest  poets  of  the  Scandinavian  North.  Born  1782.  Professor  in 
Lund,  1812.  Bishop  in  Vaxjo,  1824.  Died  1846.  His  best  known  works 
are  "Frithiof s  Saga",  " N attvardsharncn"  (Transl.  by  Longfellow.  See  Works 
VI,  p.  232  flf),  "Fridsroster" ,  "Axel",  "Svea",  and  some  minor  poems.  He 
was  also  a  great  speaker  and  his  orations  belong  to  the  very  best  produced 
in  Scandinavia.  For  biography  see  "Esaias  Tegner",  by  Nils  Erdmann, 
Stockholm,  1896,  "Esaias  Tegners  Samlade  Skrifter"  (Stockholm,  1893)1 
Lefnadstcckning  of  C.  IV.  Bottiger.     (Also  found  in  German  translation.) 

See  also  Longfellow's  Works   (Boston,  1886),  VI,  p.  315- 

37  "North  American  Review." 

""North  American  Review",  July,  1837,  p.  159. 


1 82  So7}ie  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters 

that  in  New  England,  a  country  much  resembling  yours,^^  your  high 
song  has  found  an  echo. 

Wishing  you  many  years  of  happiness  and  God's  peace,  I  have 
the  honor  to  be 

Very  sincerely  your  friend, 

Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

Letter  addressed  to  Professor  and  Librarian  J.  H.  Schroder, 
Uppsala,  Sweden. 

(Original,  preserved  at  University  Library  in  "Letters  to 
the  Librarian  Schroder.")^" 

Monsieur.*^ 

Ayant  eu  occasion  d'examiner  les  "Scriptores  Rerum  Svec. 
Medii  Aevi,"^'  j'ai  trouve  une  feuille,  tellement  dechiree,  que  je  ne 
saurai  m'en  servir.  La  moitie  de  cette  feuille  manque  dans  tous 
les  deux  exemplaires.  C'est  la  premiere  page  d'un  des  cahiers;  et 
commence  ainsi : 

"L 
Ex  Langfedgatal 
ab  Odino  ad  Olavum  Tratalja.^^ 
Ex   Codicc   Donationis   Magnasanae,   No.   415,   in   Bibliotheca, 
&c  &c" 

C'est  curieux,  que  dans  les  deux  exemplaires,  la  meme  feuille 
soit  ainsi  dechiree  au  beau  milieu  de  la  page.  Veuillez  bien  m'en- 
voyer,  par  quelque  bonne  occasion,  deux  copies  de  cette  feuille — une 
pour  chaque  exemplaire  du  livre. 

Agreez,  je  vous  prie,  les  sentimens  de  consideration  avec  les- 
quels  j'ai  I'honneur  d'etre 

Votre  tres  humble  Serviteur, 

H.  W.  Longfellow, 

Clara  vSodra  Kyrkogatan  No.  5 

Stockholm,  ce  7.  Aout  1835. 

••  Cf.  Works  VI,  318. 

"  I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  A.  Anderson,  the  present  librarian,  for  a  copy  of 
the  letter. 

"J.  H.  Schroder,  professor  and  librarian  at  Uppsala.  Editor  and  author 
of  a  great  number  of  works.     See  "Brit.  M.  Catalogue  of  P.  B." 

■IS  Cf.  Svcrlgcs  Historia  fran  dldsta  tid  till  vara  dagar  (Minneapolis, 
1900),   I.     Bibliography,  II,  69,  207. 

"  It  seems  that  Longfellow  was  reading  this  work  at  the  time  as  well  as 
"Catnla  Rimkronikan"  cf.     "North  American  Revieitf'  XLX,  p.   152. 


Some  Unpublished  Loyigfellow  Letters  183 

Letter  addressed  to  Messrs.  Richard  Griffin  &  Co.,  Publishers, 
Ave  Maria  Lane,  London  E.  C. 

(Original  in  British  Museum. )^^ 

Cambridge,  March  26,  i860. 

Gentlemen. 

I  am  much  obHged  to  you  for  sending,  me  the  enclosed  for 
revision ;  and  hope  you  will  pardon  me  for  not  returning  it  sooner.'*^ 
I  decidedly  prefer  the  original  form  of  the  notice ;  though  if 
you  see  fit  you  may  add  the  following  list  of  my  books.'*^ 
I  remain,  Gentlemen, 

Yours  truly, 

Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

Letter  addressed  to  Charles  Bahage.^"^ 

(Original  in  British  museum.) 

BoucHURCH,  July  20,  1868. 
My  Dear  Sir  : 

Just  as  I  was  leaving  London,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  receiving 
your  valuable  volume,  and  was  so  hurried  that  I  had  no  time  to 
thank  you  for  the  gift  and  the  kind  remembrance  which  prompted 
it.  Allow  me  to  make  good  the  omission  and  assure  you  of  the  inter- 
est and  sympathy  with  which  I  shall  read  the  work,  as  soon  as  I 
can  find  a  leisure  hour  to  devote  to  it. 


For  an  account  of  this  period  of  Swedish  history  see  "Sveriges  Historia" 
of  Montelius  m.f.,  I. ;  "Svenska  folkets  historia  of  E.  G.  Geejer"  I. 

"  For  a  copy  of  these  and  the  following  letters  from  the  British  Museum 
I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  J.  A.  Herbert,  of  the  Department  of  Manuscripts. 

■•5  With  the  letter  a  clipping  is  preserved  of  the  biographical  note  re- 
ferred to. 

"  At  the  end  of  the  letter  follows  a  list  of  his  most  important  works  be- 
tween the  years  1833  and  1858. 

"Charles  Babbage  (1799-1871),  the  distinguished  English  mathematician 
and  mechanician.  The  work  referred  to  in  the  letter  is  most  likely  "Pas- 
sages from  the  Life  of  a  Philosopher",  London,  1864,  as  it  is  almost  the  only 
one  of  his  many  books  that  would  be  likely  to  interest  Longfellow.  Long- 
fellow seems  to  have  met  Babbage  for  the  first  time  on  his  second  visit  to 
Europe  in  1835.    Cf.  Life  I,  208. 


184  Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters 

Meanwhile  I  beg  you  to  accept  my  most  cordial  thanks,  and 
my  regrets,  that  I  should  have  been  forced  to  leave  London  without 
seeing  you. 

I  remain,  my  Dear  Sir, 

with  great  regard,  yours  truly 

Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

Letter  addressed  to  Hiram  Corson.^^ 

(Original  in  British  Museum.) 

Cambridge,  Feb.  i.  1864. 
Dear  Sir, 

I  have  this  morning  had  the  pleasure  of  receiving  the  copy  of 
your  new  and  very  neat  edition  of  Chaucer's  "Legende  of  Good 
Women,"  which  you  were  so  kind  as  to  send  me  and  for  which  I 
beg  you  to  accept  my  best  acknowledgments. 

With  good  wishes  for  the  success  of  this  good  undertaking,  I 
remain, 

Yours  truly, 

Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

Letters  Preserved  at  the  Royal  Library,  ■B^erlin^^ 

I. 

With  many  thanks  for  your  many  kindnesses,  and  this  last 
in  particular,  I  send  you,  my  dear  Sir,  this  amount  of  your  bill  and 
of  M.  Falckenberg's. 

Farewell  and  God  bless  you. 

Very  truly  yours, 

Henry  W.  Longfellow. 

P.  S.  Please  send  the  music  and  Michel  Angelo's  Sonnets  to 
Freiligrath  at  St.  Goar;  &  I  shall  receive  them  on  returning  down 


^'The  letter  is  without  an  address.  But  as  I  can  find  only  one  edition 
of  the  "Legende  of  Good  JVouicn"  (See  hidex  to  the  Eitslish  Catalogue  of 
Books,  London,  1876,  II,  190),  about  that  time,  and  that  is  edited  by  Hiram 
Corson,  it  seems  probable  that  the  letter  was  addressed  to  him.  But  the 
difficulty  is  to  explain  how  it  came  into  the  possession  of  the  British  Mu- 
seum. There  seems  to  be  no  copy  of  the  book  in  the  British  Museum. 
There  is  a  copy  in  the  Library  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

In  the  library  is  also  preserved  in  Longfellow's  handwriting  a  copy 
of  the  two  stanzas  next  to  the  last  from  the  "Psalm  of  Life"  beginning 
"Lives  of  Great  Men  all  remind  us"  and  signed,  Henry  W.  Longfellow. 


Some  Unpublished  Long/ellow  Letters  185 

the  Rhein  at  the  end  of  next  week.     Freiligrath  will  pay  for  the 
Sonnets,  which  are  not  in  y[oii]r  bill. 

Your  account   36.  24 

Falckenberg's  do    6.  12 

43.  06 

On  receiving  this  please,  write  a  note  informing  me  of  the 
same,  address  Freiligrath,  St.  Goar.^o 

II. 

My  Dear  Sir, 

This  will  be  handed  you  by  Mr.  Welch  of  Boston,  who  will  pass 
a  week  or  two  in  Berlin,  and  is  desirous  of  making  your  acquaint- 
ance. As  Mr.  Welch  is  a  scholar,  and  visits  Germany  for  the  pur- 
pose of  studying  its  language  and  literature,  you  will  have  at  least 
one  bond  of  sympathy,  'and  should  you  have  it  in  your  power  to 
further  his  views  in  any  way,  I  shall  feel  much  obliged  to  you  for  it. 

Yours  very  truly, 
Henry  W.  Longfellow,  Cambridge,  April  14,  1841. 

P.  S.  A  week  or  two  ago  I  sent  by  way  of  London  (or  rather 
Sumner  did  for  me)  a  small  package  for  you.  I  hope  it  reached 
you  safely. 


50  Cf.  Life  I,  426,  430,  434  flf.  for  Longfellow's  stay  in  Germany  in  1842 
and  his  relation  to  Freiligrath.  See  M.  D.  Learned  in  "Am.  Germ."  Olds,  I, 
p.  69  flF. 


i<S6  Some  Unpjiblished  Longfellow  Letters. 

Appendix. 
I. 

LETTER    FROM    NICANDER    ADDRESSED    TO 
LONGFELLOW.^ 

Orebro  och  Boo,  den  i6  Aug.,  1835. 
Gode  Van  : 

Da  jag  nu  for  forsta  gangen  helsar  min  Americanske 
broder,  pa  mitt  eget  modersmal,  sa  torde  han  benaget  ursakta, 
att  jag  begagnar  ett  gammalt,  godt,  och  Svenskt  ord,  som 
heter  Du.  Utan  denna  benamning,  omsesidigt  anvand,  kan 
emellan  vanner  i  Swerige  ingen  ratt  fotrolig  brefvaxling  aga 
rum. 

Dina  bada  senaste  bref,  for  hvilka  jag  innerlingen  tackar, 
erholl  jag  pa  en  gang  for  nagra  dagar  sedan.  De  hafva 
lange  legat  i  Nykoping  hvarifran  jag,  vid  deras  ankomst, 
redan  var  afrest. 

Hur,  i  all  varlden,  shall  jag  fa  se  dig,  och  spraka  nagra 
vanliga  ord?  War  god  och  med  mojligaste  forsta  sag  mig, 
htcra  la?ige  du  amnar  uppehalla  Dig  i  Stockholm,  niir  Du 
reser  darfran  och  Jivart  Du  da  begifver  Dig.  Jag  vill  sedan 
uttanka  ett  nedel  att  trafl[a  dig  pa  vagen,  i  handelse  det 
skulle  falla  sig  obeqvamt  for  Dig  och  dina  Damer,  att  besoka 
Boo.  Sag  mig  ock,  huru  det  gamla  Upsala  behagat  Dig. 
Der  har  jag  tillbringat  en  stor  del  of  min  ungdom,  och  i  dess 
arevordiga  Domkyrkan  emottagit  en  lagerkrans  som  redan 
ar  vissnad.  Men  sangens  kalla,  den  silfverklara  Castalia,  ar 
dock  icke  uttorkad  annu.  Jag  lefver  of  dess  floder  och  of  mina 
skana  Minnen.  Gerna  ville  jag  att  du  skulle  se  mig  har  ;  att 
Du  kunde  sitta,  vid  min  sida,  i  sangens  tempel  pa  den  lilla 
underbora  on,  der  jagar  omgifven  af  blommor  och  fagelqvitter 
ock  omfamnad  of  fiodens  spegelklara  armar, 

"  Dear  Nature  is  the  kindest  mother  still,"  sager  Lord 
Byron.     Jag  alsker  naturen  och  allt  som  naturligt  ar. 


'Original  of  this  and  the  following  letter,  preserved  in  the  Longfellow 
Collection  at  the  Cra\q^ie  House,  Cambridge. 

I  wish  to  express  my  sincere  thanks  to  Miss  Alice  M.  Longfellow  for 
privileges  granted  and  for  her  courtesies  in  answering  questions,  etc.  Thanks 
are  also  due  my  friend,  Mr.  C.  R.  Magney,  of  the  Harvard  Law  School,  for 
making  careful  copies  of  these  two  letters  for  me. 


^    lAt^  jy.  iw^  /^<r. 

Ri^^  ^y>f-     /to^       >^^^       <2Li/uyC^e<^r^      oi^^-yC^ 


Letter  of  Longfellow  to  Nicander. 


Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters.  187 

Jag  vill  icke  nu  trotta  Dig  med  for  mycket  Svenska.  Mitt 
bref  blir  Dig  kanhanda  en  plaga  i  alia  fall  ;  men  Du  beromde 
mitt  modersmal  i  ditt  sista  bref  och  att  jag  alskar  det  ar  val 
icke  underlight. 

Skrif  nu  ett  langt  bref  med  omgaende  post  1  I  will  send 
you  an  immediate  answer. 

Forgat  mig  ej  !  Om  Guilia  Persiani  vet  jag  intet.  Pa 
tvenne  ar  har  jag  fran  henne  intet  bref  bekommit.^ 

Med  sannaste  tilligfvenhet, 

Din, 

Karl  Aug.  Nicander. 

Translation. 

Orebro  and  Boo,  Aug.  16,  1835. 

Dear  Friend  i"*  As  I  now  for  the  first  time  greet  my 
American  brother  in  my  own  native  tongue,  he  will,  perhaps, 
kindly  excuse  me  for  using  a  good  old  Swedish  word,  which 
is  called  ''  Du'\^  Without  this  title,  reciprocally  used,  no  truly 
intimate  correspondence  can  take  place  between  friends  in 
Sweden. 

Both  of  your  last  two  letters,  for  which  I  sincerely  thank 
you,  I  received  a  few  days  ago,  at  the  same  time.  They  had 
been  lying  in  Nykoping  for  some  time,  from  which  place  I  had 
already  departed  when  they  arrived. 

How,  in  all  the  world,  shall  I  get  to  see  you,  and  speak  a 
few  friendly  words  with  you?  Kindly  tell  me  at  the  very 
earliest,  how  long  you  intend  to  remain  in  Stockholm,  tvhen 
you  depart  from  there  and  whither  you  then  betake  yourself.  I 
will  then  contrive  some  means  by  which  I  can  arrange  to  meet 
you  on  the  way,  in  case  it  should  not  be  convenient  for  you 
and  your  ladies  to  visit  Boo.  Tell  me  also  how  old  Uppsala 
pleased  you.  There  I  spent  a  great  part  of  my  youth,  and 
received  in  its  venerable  Cathedral  a  lauret  crown,  which  is 


^Nicander  left  Rome  in  the  Spring  of  1829,  and,  according  to  the  above,  the 
correspondence  with  Julia  was  continued  until  some  time  in  1833. 

^Literally  "  good  friend." 

*"Du"  corresponds  to  the  German  "du,"  and  it  is  used  in  the  same 
manner.  The  English  "thou,"  as  used  by  the  Quakers,  is  almost  identical, 
although  "Du"  in  Swedish  is  never  used  except  by  very  familiar  friends  and 
to  subordinates. 


1 88  Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters. 

already  withered.  But  the  fountain  of  song,  the  silvery-clear 
Castalia,  is,  however,  not  yet  dried  up.  I  live  from  its  streams 
and  from  my  beautiful  Memories.''  I  wish  that  you  might  see 
me  here,  that  you  could  sit  by  my  side  in  the  temple  of  Song 
on  the  little  wonderful  island,  where  I  am  surrounded  by 
flowers  and  the  chirping  of  birds,  and  embraced  by  the  crystal- 
clear  arms  of  the  river.  "  Dear  Nature  is  the  kindest  mother 
still,"  says  Lord  Byron.  I  love  nature  and  everything  that  is 
natural. 

I  will  not  now  tire  you  with  too  much  Swedish.  My  letter 
will,  perhaps,  become  a  burden  to  you  anyway,  but  you 
praised  my  native  tongue  in  your  last  letter,  and  that  I  love  it 
is  only  natural. 

Now,  please  write  a  long  letter  by  return  post !  I  will  send 
you  an  immediate  answer. 

Forget  me  not !     About  Jidia  Persiaiii  I  know  nothing. 
For  two  years  I  have  received  no  letter  from  her. 
Very  sincerely  yours, 

Karl  Aug.  Nicander. 

II., 
LETTER  FROM  THGNER  ADERESSED  TO 
LONGFELLOW.*^ 

BOKEDAL  VID  GOTEBORG,  d.  lO  Juli,  1841. 
For  3  ar  sedan  da  jag  var  har  pa  Bokedal  hos  Wijk  och 
bans  skona  Fru,  den  skonaste  gvinna  i  Sverige,^  emottog  jag 
det  bref,  recension  och  fragmentariska  ofversattning  of  Frithiof, 
hvarmed  Herr  Professorn  hedrat  mig.  Embetsgoromal, 
Riksdagen,  nyligen  slutad,  och  en  svar  nerfsjukdom  sedermera 
ha  dock  hindrat  mig  att  tacka,  vom  jag  borde,  for  allt  detta. 


"Nicander  was  now  working  on  " Minnen /ran Sbdern,^'  vol.JI  {''Memories 
from  the  South''). 

*This  letter  is  printed  in  "  Svea "  (Stock.  1904),  p.  147,  but  in  poor 
condition. 

'Cp.  Mrs.  Longfellow's  letter  of  Sept.  22,  1835,  in  Higginson's  ''Life  of 
Longfellow,"  p.  loi.  '  'We  had  heard  of  her  great  beauty  in  America.  I  can  not 
say  that  she  is  beautiful,  but  she  is  extremely  pretty,  with  very  interesting 
manners.     Cp.  Tegner's  Samlade  Skrifter  (Stock.,  1893),  p.  358  ;  465,  No.  6. 


Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters.  189 

Utan  att  just  satta  det  hogsta  varde  pa  publikens  omdome  i 
elier  utom  mitt  fadernesland,  och  med  det  Horatianska 

malignum 
Spernere  vulgus^ 
till  valsprak,  glader  det  mig  [dock]  naturligtvis  att  finna  mina 
dikter  atergifna  pa  ett  traffande  satt,  i  synnerhet  infor  en  nation, 
som  jag  varderar.  Det  har  alltid  varit  min  ofvertygelse  att 
Engelskan  ar  af  alia  sprak  det  som  presterar^  sig  best  till 
ofversattningar  fran  Swenskan,  ty  Engelsmannen  alskarliksom 
vi  att  concentrera  uttryck,  tanke  eller  bild,  inom  den  mojligast 
korta  period,  och  blixtra  med  ett  kort  men  skarpt  svard, 
hvaremot  Tysken  foredrar  de  langa  slapande  perioderna,  och 
gerna  ofverdrar  sina  vapen  med  formogladt  svinskinslader,'^ 
Engelskan  deremot  ar  en  samling  of  Laconismer,  och  den  sa 
mycket  misskande  Pope,  med  sina  blankslipade  antitheser,  har 
alltid  forefault  mig  som  den  ratte  representanten  of  Engelska 
sprakets   genius. 

Ennellertid  aro"  bland  de  fyra  eller  fem  ofversattningar 
jag  kanner  of  Frithjof  [och]  haft  tillfalle  att  se,  ingen 
enda  hvarmed  jag  varit  fullt  nojd,  utom  Herr  Profes- 
sorns.  Nar  ofversattaren  forstatt  meningen,  hvilket  ej  alltid 
intraflatt,  sa  har  dock  ofta  den  ohjalpliga  oformagan  i  det 
tekniska  [hos  honom] ,  och  [bans]  bristande  valde  ofver 
spraket  vanstalt  ofnersattning.  Ty  Engelskan  ar  [ej]  ett 
elastiskt  sprak,  svart  nog  att  boja,  om  det  icke  skall  springa 
sender;  sa  ar  det  skeddt  has  en  Anonym  [of versattare] ,  hos 
Sturm,^"  hos   Steevens'^  (tryckt   i    Stockholm).     Battre  i  detta 


*"  mihi  parva  rura  et 
Spiritum  Graiae  tenuem  camenae 
Parca  non  mendax  dedit  et  malignum 

Spernere  vulgus." — Hor.  Carm.,  II,  16,  37-40. 
^"  presterar  sig."  The  meaning  is  clear,  but  I  am  unfamiliar  with  the  word 
in  this  sense.  "  Passar"  or  "  lampar  sig"  would  be  more  according  to  usage. 
'°Cp.  the  opinion  of  DeOuincey  on  this  point,  Works  (Boston,  1882),  IV. 
202  ff.,  358  ff.  "A  chapter  upon  German  rhetoric  would  be  in  the  same  ludicrous 
predicament  as  Van  Troil's  chapter  on  the  snakes  of  Iceland,"  etc.  "We 
doubt,  indeed,  whether  any  German  has  written  prose  with  grace,  unless  he  had 
lived  abroad  .  .  .  .  " 

""Aro  .  .  .  ingen  enda."     The  correct  form,  "Ar  .  .  .  ingen  enda  .  .  ." 
"W.  Strong  (London,  1833). 
"G.  Stephens  (London,  1839). 


igo  Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters. 

ofseende  ar  Lathmans.^*  Men  framst  siitter  jag  likval  Herr 
Professorns,  bade  i  afseende  pa  ordforstaendet  och  versifica- 
tionen.  Det  enda  jag  har  emot  ofversattningen  ar  att  hon  ej 
ar  komplett,  och  det  ar  hartill  [namligen  att  fullborda 
densamma]'''  som  jag  tar  mig  friheten  att  uppmana  Herr 
Professorn  pa  det  jag  ma  kunna  saga,  att  Frithjof  atminstone 
pa  ett  sprak  ar  val  ofversatt. 

I  vinter  borjar  jag  utgifva  en  samling  of  mina  skrifter  i 
vers  ock  prosa.  Samligen  ar  beraknad  pa  4  serier,  hvardera 
innehallande  omkring  20  a  30  Band,  och  hvaraf  jag  hoppas 
kunna  utgifva  ista  Serien  inom  i  ar  harifran  '"  Storre  delen 
of  innehallet  ar  hittills  otryckt.  Med  Wijks  skepp^'  vill  jag 
skicka  ett  exemplar  deraf,  till  Amerika,  i  den  man  de  lemna 
pressen,  adresseradt  till  Her  Professorn  sasom  ett  bevis  af 
aktning  och  forbindelse.  Denna  sistnamda  skulle  annu  mer 
okas  om  Herr  Professorn  ansage  nagot  daraf  vara  vardt  en 
ofversattning. 

Sista  upplagan  of  Frithiod  bifogas. 

Med  hogaktning  ock  tillgifvenhet, 

Herr  Professorns, 
Odmjuke  tjenare,  Es.  Tegner. 

Translation}^ 

BOKEDAL,  by  Gothenborg,  July  'o,  1841. 
Three  years  ago,  when   I  was  here  at  Bokedal  visiting 
with  Wijk  and  his  beautiful  wife,  the  most  beautiful  woman  in 
Sweden,  I  received  the  letter,  review,  and  fragmentary  transla- 

"R.  G.  Latham.     His  translation  (in  verse)  was  published  in  London,  1838. 

1*1840  Tegner  was  physically  and  mentally  ailing.  In  the  Spring  of  1841  he 
returned  from  a  hospital  in  Slesvig  and  was,  perhaps,  not  entirely  well.  That 
may  account  for  some  of  the  irregularities  in  the  letter.  See  Erdmann  :  E. 
Tegner,' '  p.  269  ff. 

'"The  plan  was  not  carried  out. 

I'Wijk  was  a  merchant  of  Gothenborg  who  seems  to  have  carried  on  a  trade 
with  America.  Cp.  Sve.  Biorg.  Lexicon  (Stock.  1906),  H,  p.  728.  Ten^r  was 
a  friend  of  the  family.  See  ''Bilder  och  Minnen,''  of  Wieselgren  (Stock.  1889), 
p.  43.  Longfellow  also  spent  some  enjoyable  hours  with  the  Wijks.  See 
Higginson,  '"Life,"  p.  loi  flf. 

'^A  translation,  with  one  or  two  small  omissions,  is  published  in  "Life,''' 
I,  394  ff. 


Some  Unpublished  Longfellow  Letters.  191 

tion  of  "Frithiof,"  with  which  the  Professor'"  has  honored  me. 
Official  duties,  the  Riksdag-,  recently  adjourned,  and  a  severe 
nervous  illness  afterwards,  have  hindered  me,  however,  from 
thanking  you,  as  I  ought,  for  all  this.  Without  really  putting 
the  highest  value  on  the  judgment  of  the  public  in  or  outside 
of  my  native  land,  and  with  the  Horatian 

vialignum 
Spernere  valgus 
for  my  motto,  yet  I  rejoice,  of  course,  to  find  my  poems  repro- 
duced in  a  striking  manner,  especially  for  a  nation  which  I 
value.  It  has  always  been  my  conviction  that  English  is  of  all 
languages  that  which  best  lends  itself  for  translations  from 
Swedish,  for  the  Englishman  loves,  as  we,  to  concentrate  the 
expression,  thought  or  figure,  into  the  least  possible  space,  and 
to  flash  a  short  but  sharp  sword,  while  the  German  prefers  the 
long,  dragging  periods,  and  likes  to  cover  his  weopons  with 
moulded  hogskin.^"  The  English  language,  on  the  other  hand, 
is  a  collection  of  laconicisms,  and  the  much  misjudged  Pope, 
with  his  sharply-ground  anthetheses,  has  always  appeared  to 
me  as  the  true  representative  of  the  genius  of  the  English 
language. 

However,  among  the  four  or  five  translations  I  know 
of  "  Frithiof,"  and  have  had  a  chance  to  see,  there  is 
not  any  with  which  I  am  entirely  satisfied,  except  the  Profes- 
sor's. When  the  translator  has  understood  the  meaning, 
which  has  not  always  happened,  the  irremediable  technical 
inability  [of  the  translator]  and  his  insufficient  command  over 
his  language  have  often  disfigured  the  translation.  For 
English  is  [not]  an  elastic  language,  difficult  enough  to  bend 
if  it  shall  not  fly  to  pieces  ;^'  thus  it  has  happened  in  the  case  of 
an  anonymous  [translator] ,  and  in  the  case  of  Strong  and 
Stephens  (whose  translation  was  printed  at  Stockholm). 
Latham's  is  better  in  this  respect.  But  before  all,  I  place  the 
Professor's,  however,  both  as  regards  the  understanding  of  the 
language  and  the  vercification.  The  only  thing  I  have  against 


""  Herr  Professor  corresponds  to  the  German,  but  can  not  be  translated 
into  English.     We  would  use  simply  "  you  "  in  this  case. 
"The  figure  loses  all  its  flavor  in  translation . 
"Springa  sonder,  lit.  spring  asunder,  break. 


192  Some  Unpublished  Longjellow  Letters. 

the  translation  is  that  it  is  not  complete,  and  it  is  to  this 
[namely,  of  completing  it],  that  I  take  the  liberty  of  urging 
the  Professor,  so  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  that  "  Frithiof "  is 
well  translated  into,  at  least,  one  language. 

This  Winter  I  begin  to  publish  a  collection  of  my  writings 
in  verse  and  prose.  The  collection  is  planned  to  appear  in 
four  series,  each  containing  about  twenty  to  thirty  volumes, 
and  I  hope  to  be  able  to  publish  the  first  series  within  a  year 
from  now.  The  greater  part  of  the  contents  has  hitherto 
not  been  published.  By  Wijk's  ship  I  will  send  a  copy  of  this 
to  America  as  soon  as  the  volumes  leave  the  press,  addressed 
to  the  Professor,  as  evidence  of  my  esteem  and  gratitude.  This 
latter, would  be  still  more  increased  if  the  Professor  would  con- 
sider any  of  it  worthy  of  translation. 

The  last  edition  of  "  Frithiof"  is  added. 

With  esteem  and  attachment, 

the  Professor's 

Humble  servant,  Es.  Tegner. 

Letter  addressed  to  Nicander}"^ 

(Original  preserved  at  the  Royal  Library,  Stockholm.) 

Transcribed  from  the  photographic  reproduction. 

Piazza  Madama,  Den  29  Oct.,  1828. 
Lieber  Freund, 

Der  Brief,  der  sie  hatten  die  Giite  dieser  morgen  mir  zu 
schreiben,  kann  ich  nicht  verstehen  : — Ci  vorra  una  settimana 
per  legerla.  Ho  capito  pero,  "Auch  heute  kann  ich  nicht 
kommen  " — e  quando  ho  letto  tutto  vi  respondero. 

Per  non  far  aspettare,  quello  chi  m'ha  portato  il  vostro 
bigletto,  corto  cammino,  e  mi  rassegno. 

II  vostro  amico  et  servitore, 

Enrico  W.  Longfellow. 


"The  letter  is  addressed  :  Al  P[ad]rone  b[ene]  vol[issi]  ma  II  Signer 
August©  Nicander,  Villa  Malta,  Rome.  Nicander  had,  perhaps,  written  in 
German.  Longfellow's  knowledge  of  German  was  at  this  time  not  very 
thorough,  it  seems.  The  playful  remark  that  it  would  take  him  a  week  to  read 
the  little  note,  and  that  he  would  answer  it  after  he  had  read  it,  indicates  that 
he  found  it  difficult. 


'^rCTurcas iunctim.ct  tiiSccptriaer,arma  moucti 
1^     iS^ic  Sr3HEJ^3S  ei  Charlies ,'p r^mui  matjna) 


MeLCHIOK    AuAM    I'ASTORIUS'       "  Rr)MISCllKR    AlJI.EK  ". 

(Frontispiece.) 


©crman  Qmcrican  (Innals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


A  BI-MONTHLY   DEVOTED   TO   THE   COiMPARATIVE   STUDY   OF   THE 

Historical,  Literary,  Linguistic,  Educational  and  Commercial'  Relations 

OF 

Germany  and  America 


ORGAN   OF 

The  German  Americmi  Historical  Society 
The  National  German  American  Alliance 
The  Union  of  Old  German  Students  in  America 


EDITOR, 
MARION  DEXTER  LEARNED, 

University  of  Pennsylvania. 
CONTRIBUTING  EDITORS  : 
H.  C.  G.  Brandt,  Julius  Goebel, 

Hamilton  College.  Harvard  University. 

W.  H.  Carpenter,  <       J.  T.  Hatfield, 

Columbia  University.  Northwestern  University. 

W.  H.  Carruth,  W.  T.  Hewett, 

University  of  Kansas.  Cornell  University. 

Hermann  Collitz,  A.  R.  Hohlfeld, 

Bryn  Mawr  College.  University  of  Wisconsin. 

Starr  W.  Cutting,  Hugo  K.  Schilling, 

University  of  Chicago.  University  of  California. 

Ijaniel  K.  Dodge,  H.  Schmidt-Wartenberg, 

University  of  Illinois.  University  of  Chicago. 

A.  B.  Faust,  Hermann  Schoenfeld, 

^Cornell  University.  Columbian  University. 

KuNO  Franckk,  Calvin  Thomas, 

Harvard  University.  Columbia  University. 

Adolph  Gerber,  H.  S.  White, 

Late    of   Earlham  College.  Harvard  University. 

Henry  Wood,  Johns  Hopkins  University, 


New  Scries,  Vol,  5.  Old  Series,  Vol,  9. 

1907. 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  GERMAN  AMERICAN  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY 
Chas.  H.  Breitbarth,  Business  Manager, 

Pbtla&clpbfa. 


3BetUn :                          Ulcw  l^orh :  Xelp5tfl  J 

MAYER  &  MOLLER               CARL  A.  STERN  F.  A.  BROCKHAUS 

XonOon:  Paris: 

KEGAN,  PAUL  TRENCH.  TRUBNKR  &  CO..  Ltd.  H.  LeSOUDIER 


<5crman  Qmcrican  Qnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF'tHB  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


New  Series,  July  and  August  Old  Series, 

Vol.  V.     No.  4.  1907.  Vol.   IX.     No.  4. 

FRANCIS  DANIEL  PASTORIUS. 
The  Founder  of  Germantown. 

By  Marion  Dexter  Learned. 
(Chapter  I.     Continued.) 

Printed  Works. 

The  following  works  by  M.  A.  Pastorius  were  printed : 

I.  Romischer  Adler  |  Oder  Theatrvm  |  Electionis  |  et  Corona- 
tionis  I  Romano-Csesarese.  |  Mit  denen  darbey  |  Interessirenden 
Hohen  Stands-Personen.  |  In  Zwey  Theil  reprsesentirt.  |  .  .  .  , 
Durch  M.  A.  Pastorium  J.  V.  D.  |  Auch  mit  Kupffern  gezieret.  | 
Franckfurt  am  Mayn  |  In  Verlegung  Georg  Fickwirdts,  Buch- 
handlers.  |  Getruckt  bey  Aegidio  Vogeln.  |  Anno  M.DC.LVII.^^ 

The  first  suggestion  of  such  a  work  may  have  come  to 
Pastorius  during  his  sojourn  in  Austria  at  the  time  of  the 
coronation  of  Ferdinand  IV  as  King  of  Hungary  in  1647,  ^^^4 
revived  when  the  young  Count,  Franciscus  of  Limpurg,  went 
as  Imperial  Cupbearer  to  the  coronation  of  Ferdinand  IV 
as  Emperor  at  Regensburg,  1653.  The  Romischer  Adler  gives 
an  interesting  and  detailed  account  of  the  coronation  of  a  German 
Emperor,  with  special  particulars  relating  to  the  coronation  of 
1653,  as  well  as  to  that  of  Otto  I  and  Charles  V.  This  work 
was  regarded  by  Schnorr  von  Carolsfeld  as  a  production  of 
Joliann  Augustin  Pastorius,  as  tlie  following  remark  will  show : 

"Bedarf  aus  dem  Grunde  bcsonderer  Erwahnung,  weil  der 


68  The  full  title  may  be  seen  in  the  photographic  reproduction  included 
in  this  work. 

(195) 


196  Francis  Dayiiel  Pas  tot  ins 

Verfasser  auf  dem  Titelblatte  M.  (wol  nicht=::Magister)  A. 
Pastorius  genannt  ist."'''*  Schnorr  von  Carolsfeld  was  evidently 
not  acquainted  with  the  name  of  M(elchior)  A(dam)  Pastorius, 
which  is  the  name  that  settles  his  doubt  and  at  the  same  time 
corrects  his  mistake. 

2.  Fasciculus  |  Rhythmorum  |  Spiritualium  tum  |  Ex  Antiquioribus 
I  tum  I  Recentioribus  Scriptoribus  |  Collectus  |  et  Orthodox:e 
Veritatis  Amatoribus  |  ad  usum  compacentem  |  Communicatus 
I  Abs  Alelchiore  Adamo  Pastorio  J.  C.  |  Consule  Ac  Scholarcha 
Windsheimense  |  Windshemii,  |  Typis  Adami  Christiani  Rcdel- 
hamerl  |  Anno  Christi,  1689. 

This  collection  is  dedicated  to  Heinrich  Forster  and  Chris- 
topher Schutz.  The  dedication  gives  some  important  facts  con- 
cerning the  collection,  stating  among  other  things  that  the  author 
has  added  some  of  his  own  poems,  "nonnullos  ex  meis  addidi." 
The  longest  poem  of  the  author  included  in  the  collection  is  his 
"Sterb-Lied,"  which  is  a  penitential  lyric  of  nearly  four  hundred 
four-stressed,  iambic  verses  in  rhymed  couplets  or  alternate 
rhymes.  A  short  specimen  will  suffice  to  illustrate  the  character 
of  the  poem.^" 

3.  Kurtze  |  Beschreibung  |  Des  |  H.  R.  Reichs  Stadt  |  Windsheim 
I  Samt  I  Dero  vielfaltigen  Ungliicks-Fallen.  |  .  .  .  .  Niirn- 
berg,  i6g2?^ 

This  is  a  succinct  account  of  the  imperial  city  of  Windsheim 
from  its  earliest  beginning  to  the  author's  own  time,  giving  a 
list  of  the  Burgomasters  and  other  high  officials  of  the  city.  In 
the  Archives  of  the  city  of  W^indsheim  there  is  a  manuscript  of 
this  work,  w'hich  is  evidently  the  original  draft  of  the  matter 
now  found  in  the  printed  book.     This  manuscript'^^   bears  the 


69  Cf.   All^cmcinc  Deutsche   Biographie,   sub.    nom. 

70  "Ach  HErr  unci  GOtt.     Sih  an  die  Noth 

Wie  ich  hier  steck  in  Siinden  Roth, 
Mich  armes  Kind  Schr  qualt  die  Siind 
Die  ich  im  Gwissen  starck  empfind." 

71  Cf.  the  photographic  facsimile  for  full  title. 
71a.  Cf.  the  photographic  facsimile. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastotius  197 

date  of  1670,  thus  showing  that  the  work  antedates  the  printed 
book  by  a  period  of  twenty-two  years.  It  was  in  the  year  1670 
that  Pastoriiis  was  elected  Elder  Burgomaster,  Auditor  of  Church 
Accounts,  and  "Landasscssor."  The  word  is  thus  an  evidence 
of  his  growing  interest  in  the  affairs  of  the  city  of  Windsheini. 

4.  Franconia  |  Rediviva  |  Das  ist :  |  Des  Hochloblichen  j  Friincki- 
schen  Craises  |  So  wohl  Genealogische,  |  als  Historische  |  Be- 
schrcibung  |  in  welchcr  enthalten :  |  .  .  .  .  |  Alles  mit  FkMsz 
Colligirt  und  in  Publicum  |  gegeben  durch  |  Melchiorem  Adam. 
Pastorium,  |  J.  U.  D.  Hochfurstl.  Brandenb.  Bayreuth.  Raht  | 
und  Historicum.   |   In  Verlegnung  desz  Authoris.     1702. 

In  the  Chronica  Windsheimensis'^^  we  read  that  this  book 
was  printed  in  Schwabach,  but  was  confiscated  by  the  censor, 
because  Pastorius  had  made  use  of  the  title  "Hochfurstl  bran- 
denburghr  Rath  and  Historicus."  In  this  statement  we  see  traces 
of  the  old  trouble  in  Windsheun.  The  extant  copies  of  the  book 
bear  the  press  mark  of  1702,  and  make  no  mention  of  Schwa- 
bach as  the  place  of  printing.  It  seems  doubtful  that  there  was 
an  earlier  printed  edition  of  the  work.  If  the  extant  edition 
is  the  same  as  that  which  was  confiscated,  it  must  be  said  that 
the  Secretary,  who  made  the  entry  in  the  Chronica  Windshci- 
mcnsis,  seems  never  to  have  read  the  work,  as  it  is  difficult  to 
find  such  objectionable  passages  as  he  mentions.  The  passages 
reflecting  on  Windsheim  are  to  be  sought  either  in  the  chapter 
entitled  "Einige  Merckwiirdige  Begebenheiten  in  der  Stadt 
Windsheim,"  or  in  the  rather  strong  statement  touching  the 
decadence  of  the  city,  which  the  author  tucked  away  in  the 
chapter  entitled  "Von  Eimgung  und  Biindnussen."  The  few 
"Merckwiirdige  Begebenheiten"  are  of  much  earlier  date  than 


72  Cf.  Chronica  Windshcinicnsis,  October  1-28,  1696 :  "In  Nurnbcrg  hat 
Er  dem  franckn  Grays,  unterm  Prasdicat  alsz  Hoch  Fiirstl  brandenburgr 
Rath  und  Historicus  einen  Tractat  sub  Titulo :  Franconia  rediviva :  Den  er 
zu  Schwabach  drucken  lassen,  dediciret;  Dieses  Opus,  worinnen  aller  winds- 
heimische  Unterthanen  und  geistliche  Vorfalle,  wieder  seinen  auszgestellten 
Revers  public  gemacht  ist  von  Craysseswegen  confisciret  worden." 


198  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

the  troubles  in  Windsheim  and  for  the  most  part  too  trivial  to 
be  considered.  The  passage  referring  to  the  decline  of  Winds- 
heim runs  thus: 

"Und  aus  diesen  und  noch  vielmehr  dergleichen  Bcgegnussen 
leicht  abzumcrckcn  ist.  worum  diese  alte  Reichs-Stadt  in  eine  solche 
fast  unbeschreibliciie  Decadcntz  gerathen  ist,  woraus  sie  sich  in 
einem  gantzen  Scculo  schwerlich  wieder  schwingen  wird."  "^^ 

It  is  evident  from  the  context,  however,  that  Pastorius  has 
in  mind  here  the  damage  done  by  the  Thirty  Years'  War,  and 
does  not  intend  the  slightest  reflection  upon  the  Windsheimers 
of  1 690- 1 700.  It  must  be  noted  too  that  the  Frmuonia  Rediviva 
of  1702  has  the  title  "Hochfiirstl.  Brandenb.  Bayreuth.  Raht 
und  Historicum"  on  the  title  page.  Hence  we  are  inclined  to 
look  critically  upon  the  rather  severe  account  of  the  Chronica 
Windshehnensis. 

Unprinted  Manuscripts. 

A  great  part  of  the  writings  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius 
seems  to  have  remained  in  manuscript.  It  has  been  our  good 
fortune  to  unearth  a  number  of  these  manuscripts  in  the  prepa- 
ration of  the  present  work.  It  is  not  at  all  impossible  that  others 
may  exist  and  yet  come  to  light.  It  will  suffice  here  to  indicate 
briefly  the  general  character  of  the  contents  of  these  newly- 
discovered  documents.  Three  different  volumes  of  manuscripts 
have  been  found,  all  in  small  octavo  of  the  time,  bound  in  leather 
with  gilt  or  stained  edges  and  clasps,  evidently  bound  for  the 
author  himself  for  permanent  preservation.  The  writing  is  in 
the  author's  fine  clear  hand  and  easily  legible  for  those  ac- 
quainted with  German  script.  The  volumes  are  here  designated 
by  the  short  titles  (i)  Itinerarium,  (2)  Prognosticon,  (3)  Liher 
Intimissinms.     The  fuller  titles  follow  below  i"^^ 


"^^3  Cf.  Franconia  Rediviva,  p.  339. 

73a.  The  Itinerarium  and  Prognosticon  arc  the  property  of  Dr.  Joseph  G. 
Rosengarten,  of  Philadelphia.  The  Liber  Intimissimus  belongs  to  the  Histori- 
cal Society  of  Pennsylvania. 


:Melchiok  Adam  Pastorius'    "  Franconia  Rediviva  ". 
(Frontispiece  Title.) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  199 

1.  Melchioris  Adami  Pastorii  |   Erffvrtensis  |   Itinerarivm  |  et 
Vitse  Cvrricvlvs  |  Das  ist :  |  Seine  Vollige  Reis-Beschreibunge 
und  gantzer  Lebcns  Lauff.   |   Sampt  einigen  |   Merckwiirdigen 
Begebenheitten  |  und  anzaigungen  derer  iedes  Orths  ]  befind- 
lichen  RaritatenJ^ 

This  is  the  most  important  of  all  the  three  imprinted  manu- 
scripts of  Pastorius,  as  it  deals  largely  with  his  own  life  and 
times.  The  blank  leaf  has  some  records  of  births  on  the  front 
page.  The  first  numbered  leaf  contains  title  with  verses  on 
both  pages.  Leaves  2-5  contain  a  description  of  the  city  of 
Erfurt:  "Kurtze  Beschreibung  der  Statt  Erfurtt."  Leaves 
6-7.  treating  of  the  Jesuits  are  torn  out.  Leaves  10-48  give  a 
description  of  Pastorius'  studies  and  long  journeys,  interspersed 
with  anagrams  on  his  friends  and  acquaintances.  The  rest  of 
the  volume,  leaves  49-243,  is  taken  up  with  anagrams  on  mem- 
bers of  the  Pastorius  family  and  historical  personages  and  with 
biographical  notes. 

2.  Prognosticon  |  Siue  |  Calendarium  Perpetuum  ]  De  Anni  quali- 
tate  et  futuris  Temporibus.'^^ 

This  manuscript  contains  406  leaves,  many  of  which  are 
blank.  In  addition  to  the  prognostical  part  in  the  first  22  pages, 
the  book  contains  a  great  amount  of  matter  too  miscellaneous 
to  describe  in  detail,  such  as  proverbs,  a  dictionary  of  common 
places  in  Latin  verses,  national  characteristics,  Aesopian  wisdom, 
rhyme  dictionary,  generation  of  plants,  and  the  last  part  of  the 
book  in  German,  entitled:  "Schatz-Kammer  Melchioris  Adami 
Pastorii." 

3.  Liber  |  Intimiss  |  imvs  Omnivm  |  Semper  Mecvm  ]  Continens 


Quem  Diligo  Solvm.  |  in 
Melchior  Adam  Pastorivs. 


Thesavrvm  Thesavrorvm  |  Jesvm 

qvo  vivo  I  et  I  in  qvo  moriar  |  ego 

L  C.  iNatione  Erffurtensis.    Vocatione  Consul  senior  et  Prsetor 

Windsheimensis.     Aedilis    |    Scholarcha  et   Xenodochij    Sancti 

Spiritus  I  Administrator.  |  Scrips!  hunc  Libellum  Anno  Christi 

1697  et  finiui  7.  lunij,  1701. 


74  The  verses  following  the  title  on  the  same  page  may  be  seen  in  the 
photographic  reproduction. 

'^s  The  rest  of  the  title  page  is  filled  with  Latin  verse  and  prose  relat- 
ing to  the  calendar  and  seasons. 


200  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

This  volume  is  devoted  largely  to  poetic  reflections  and 
confessions  growing  out  of  the  troubles  of  the  last  years  of 
the  author's  life,  interspersed  with  autobiographical  and  personal 
notes,  such  as  his  last  will  and  testament,  his  spiritual  epitaph 
and  his  preparation  for  death.  The  lyric  poems  are  deeply 
religious,  and  much  of  the  book  has  an  eschatological  tone.  There 
is  an  interesting  exception  in  the  case  of  a  collection  of  proverbial 
rhymes,  the  best  of  which  may  serve  as  a  specimen : 

Demuth  bringt  vns  zu  ehren 

Wer  sich  nidrig  halt  zur  Erden 
Wird  uon  Gott  erhohet  werden. 

Als  Adam  hackt  und  Eua  spann, 
Wo  war  damals  der  Edelmann? 

Als  lacob  hiith  des  Labans  SchafiF, 
Wo  war  damals  Baron  und  Graff? 

Als  Abraham  gieng  aus  seim  Land, 
Erhub  ihn  Gott  zum  Hohen  Stand. 
Vnd  als  sein  Glaube  ward  bewehrt, 
Gab  er  durch  jhn  das  Heyl  der  Erd. 

The  details  of  this  chapter  on  the  ancestors,  and  par- 
ticularly on  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius,  will  form  an  important 
background  for  the  life  and  works  of  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 
in   the  following  chapters. 

LIBRI    MELCHIORIS   ADAMI    PASTORIJ    MANUSCRIPTI. 

In  Folio. 

1.  Historia  Vniversalis  et  Pontificum  Vitae.     In  fol. 

2.  Loci  Communes  Bibliorum.     In  fol. 

3.  Veritas  una  sola  et  simplex.    In  fol. 

4.  Annotata  super  Struuium.     In  fol. 

5.  Oeconomia  Melchioris  A.  P.    In  fol. 

In  Quarto. 

6.  Loci  Communes  ex  Corpore  luris. 

7.  Compendium  Postillse  Lutheri. 


SOM.MKKIIAI  SI;N    IN    I903. 

(Inner  and  Outer  Wall  with  a  Round  Tower. ) 


Francis  Dayiiel  Pastorius  201 


8.  ControversisE  Fidei. 

9.  Alphabetum  Poeticuni. 

10.  Icones  Mortis  et  alia  Emblemata. 

11.  loannis  Tauleri  notabilia  dicta. 

12.  Aquila  Imperij. 

In  Octavo. 

13.  Icones  Bibliorum  Veteris  Testamenti. 

14.  Icones  Bibliorum  Noui  Testamenti. 

15.  Icones  super  Epistolas  Petri,  Pauli,  etc. 

16.  Alphabetum  Biblicum.  Loci  Communes. 

17.  Postilla  manuscripta  Omnium  Prima. 

18.  Postilla  manuscripta  Secunda. 

19.  Postilla  manuscripta  Tertia  impressa. 

20.  Bibel  Bilder  Veteris  et  Noui  Testam. 

21.  Schola  amoris  diuini. 

22.  Gebet  Buch  das  Erste  unter  alien. 

23.  Memoriale  Biblicum. 

24.  Beicht  und  Communion  Buch. 

25.  Vermehrtes  Beicht  Buch. 

26.  Casus  Conscientise. 
2y.  Aller  Kiinste  Kunst. 

28.  Sacra  Carmina. 

29.  Memoria  Studiorum. 

30.  Quod  libitum  sentent. 

31.  Policeij  Beschreibung.  i 

32.  Entraden  Beschreibung. 

33.  Franckisch  Crais  Recess. 

34.  Instrumentum  Pacis. 

35.  Rechtliche  Bedencken. 

36.  Bibliorum  Compendium. 
2,7.  Biblion  Icones  et  Comp. 

38.  Omnia  In  oi  |"  ?]  aliquid. 

39.  Evangelistar  Concordatia. 

40.  Vita  lESV  Christi. 

41.  Historia  Universalis. 

42.  Lebens  Lauff  M.  A.  P. 

43.  Intimissimus  omnium. 

44.  Carmina  in  Amicos. 

45.  Curiosa  Mundi. 

46.  Titular  Buch. 

47.  Process  Buch. 

48.  Tiirckisch  Buch. 

49.  Historica  Nouellen. 


202  Francis  Daniel  Pasiorius 

50.  Monetae  Valor. 

51.  Amorosa  Diuina. 

52.  Morituri  Preces. 

53.  Vade  mecum. 

54.  Vanitas  Mundi. 

55.  Eremitoritim. 

56.  Italiae  Descriptio. 

57.  Reis  Beschreibung  M.  A.  P. 

58.  Icones  Mortis. 

In  Duodecimo. 

59.  Poesis  Artificiosa. 

60.  Matricula  Imperij. 

61.  Amorosa  Diuina. 

62.  Liebes  iibung. 

63.  Compendium  luris. 

64.  Process  Buech. 

65.  De  Regno  Galliae. 

66.  De  Religione. 

67.  De  Alchimia. 

68.  Stamm  Biichlein. 

69.  Filij  Gebet  Buch. 

70.  De  Maleficis. 

Niitzliche  Biichlein :  Thomse  de  Kempis  Vnterricht  uon  der 
Nachfolgung  Christi  per  loannem  Olearium. 

Gedancken  von  der  Ewigkeit  des  Herren  de  la  Serre  Durch 
M.  Petrum  Sartorium.     Franckfurtt,  1884.''^^ 


76  Cf.  Liber  Intimissimus  (last  leaf). 


Record  of  the  IMarkiagk  ok  Pastorius'  Parents 
(From  the  Church  Book  in  Sommerhausen) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  203 


Chapter  II. 
EARLY  YEARS  AND   EDUCATION. 

The  traditions  into  which  Pastoriu^  was  born  were  the  most 
enhghtenecl  of  the  epoch.  Descended  on  his  father's  side  from  a 
family  which  had  long  been  prominent  factors  in  the  Roman  Cath- 
olic Church,  but  with  his  father  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  passed 
over  to  the  Lutheran  ( Augustanian)  confession,  his  lot  fell  among 
the  most  stirring  intellectual  events  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
The  vast  information  and  professional  experience  of  his  father  as 
jurist  and  burgomaster  of  the  imperial  city  of  Windsheim  opened 
the  broadest  horizon  for  young  Franciscus,  as  he  looked  out  with 
eager  gaze  into  the  stirring  life  of  his  time.  Nature,  station  and 
fortune  united  in  giving  him  talents,  influence  and  opportunity. 

On  the  mother's  side  Pastorius  descended  from  sturdy,  honest 
burgher  stock,  his  maternal  grandfather,  Stephan  Dietz,  having 
been  bailiff  of  Nordheim.^  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  gives  the 
following  sketch  of  Dietz  in  an  anagram  : 

Stephan  Diez 
anagramma 

STEH    DEN    SPIZ    AUS 

Allstets  der  grimmig  Tod  sein  Stachel  hat  gevvetzet 
Wann  er  seis  Pfeiles  Spiz  dir  an  das  Hertze  setzet 
So  must  du  mitt  ihm  fortt  steh  nur  den  Spitz  wohl  aus 
Er  zaigt  dir  nur  die  Thiir  zu  ienem  Himmels  Haus. 
Ich  lebte  Still  und  Trew  vor  Gott  und  andern  Christen 
Verlangte  Niemals  nicht  zu  g'winnen  was  mitt  Listen 
Maynnortheim  weis  es  wohl  wie  ich  mein  Guth  gewann 
Maynbernheim  hiesse  mich  den  Redlich  Teutschen  Mann. 
Doch  hat  (less  Krieges  Schwall  mein  Hauser  weggenommen 
Das  meiner  Kinder  keins  derselben  Eins  bekommen 
Ein  ieder  lern  darans  das  wir  allhier  nur  Giist 
Auff  Gott  und  nicht  auff  Welt  vns  sollen  griinden  fest.^ 


*  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222. 
"  Cf.  Itinerarium.  p,  4gb. 


204  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

In  Sommerhausen. 

The  town  of  Sommerhausen,  in  which  Pastorius  was  born 
September  26,  1651,  hes  on  the  right  bank  of  the  Main  some 
eight  miles  above  Wiirzburg  and  opposite  the  twin  town  of 
Winterhausen,  situated  on  the  left  bank  of  the  Main.  The  beauti- 
ful valley  of  the  Main  with  its  gentle  slopes  and  fertile  meadows 
early  attracted  tlie  eyes  of  Alemanni,  Bajuvari,  Goths,  Huns, 
Romans  and  Franks,  and  became  a  fruitful  part  of  the  Agri  Decu- 
mates  of  the  Romans,  the  primeval  forests  yielding  submissively 
to  the  inroads  of  Roman  agriculture.  It  was  in  this  sunny  region, 
too,  that  St.  Kilian  heralded  the  gospel  a  generation  before  St. 
Boniface,  the  Apostle  of  the  Germans,  stretched  out  his  organizing 
hand  over  the  hills  of  Franconia  and  Thuringia,  and  Boniface's 
kinsA^oman,  the  Anglo-Saxon  nun  Liobgytha,  planted  the  first 
German  convent  for  girls  at  Bischofsheim  on  the  Tauber.  In  the 
course  of  time  the  region  came  under  the  episcopal  administration 
centred  at  Wiirzburg,  a  thriving  city  on  a  great  European  thor- 
oughfare, whose  bishop  attained  the  rank  of  an  ecclesiastical 
prince,  with  the  outlying  towns,  like  Sommerhausen  and  Winter- 
hausen, as  his  tributaries. 

How  Sommerhausen  appeared  in  the  time  of  Pastorius  we 
learn  from  his  father  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius : 

"Sommerhausen,  a  beautiful  spot  on  the  Main  opposite  Win- 
terhausen belongs  to  the  Hereditary  Cupbearers  and  Semper  Free 
[Counts]  of  Limpurg,  but  they  have  it  as  a  fief  ['Mann-Lehen']  of 
the  Bishop  of  Wiirzburg.  It  has  a  baronial  house  and  beautiful 
church,  also  wine  vaults  and  bailif,  pure  water  and  a  specially  good 
growth  of  vineyards  and  productive  fruit  trees. "<* 

A  corresponding  picture  is  given  of  Winterhausen  in  the 
same  period : 

"Winterhausen  quite  a  large  place,  but  without  the  privilege  of 
a  market,  belongs  to  the  Hereditary  Cupbearers  and  Semper  Free 


^  Translated   from  the  German  of  M.  A.   Pastorius'  Franconia  Rediviva, 
P-  431- 


CaSTLK     at     So.MMEKllAUSEN      IN      i  903. 

(Residence  of  the  Counts  of  Limpurg.) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastor  ius  205 

of  Limpur.^.  and  these  have  it  to,2:ether  with  Sommerhaiisen  as  fief 
from  the  Bishop  of  Wiirzbiirg-.  It  is  good  grapeland  but  somewhat 
rough  on  this  side  [of  the  river].""* 

Sommerhatisen  is  still  one  of  the  best  preserved  German 
towns  at  the  present  day,  bearing  all  the  marks  of  Pastorius'  and 
earlier  times.  Among  the  survivals  are  the  old  double  wall  with 
its  well  preserved  sqtiare  and  round  towers  and  gates,  the  baronial 
Castle'"*  of  the  Counts  of  Limpurg  in  excellent  state  of  preserva- 
tion, and  with  the  old  building  of  the  last  quarter  of  the  seven- 
teenth century  still  intact,  the  old  Court  House  (Rathaus)  in  the 
same  style  as  the  castle,  the  quaint  wells  ("gesunde  Brunnen" 
mentioned  by  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius)  and  interesting  vessels 
(large  tanks")  for  carrying  the  water,  the  Pastorius  house  still 
well  preserved,  and  the  same  narrow  streets  and  ancient  houses 
about  which  the  Founder  of  Germantown  played  as  a  child. 

The  first  six  years  of  Pastorius'  life  were  passed  in  Sommer- 
hausen.  The  house  in  which  he  was  born  and  spent  his  infancy, 
before  the  erection  of  the  new  house  in  1655,  has  not  been  lo- 
cated, but  we  have  some  interesting  details  of  his  early  childhood. 
The  record  of  his  birth  is  found  in  his  father's  Itincrarhim  and  in 
his  own  Genealogical  Sketch,  and  is  given  in  both  with  great  par- 
ticularity. 

The  father's  account,  written  in  German,  runs  thus  in  Eng- 
lish translation : 

"In  the  year  of  Christ  1651,  the  26.  of  Sept.  Old  Style,  early 
in  the  morning  between  i  and  2  o'clock  in  the  sign  of  the  crab, 
Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius  was  born,  and  tlie  following  day  bap- 
tized under  the  sponsorship  of  the  High  Wellborn   Franciscus  of 


■*  Cf.  Franconia  Rcdiviva,  p.  448  (misprinted  348  in  the  book). 

^  This  castle  is  still  occupied  by  representatives  of  the  Limpurg  House. 
The  lower  part  of  the  castle,  once  used  as  a  stable,  is  now  turned  into  a 
summer  dining  room.  Her  Ladyship  Countess  Christine  graciously  invited 
the  writer  to  partake  of  her  hospitality  and  gave  him  access  to  the  Chronicle 
of  the  Limpurg  Family. 

*  See  the  illustration  showing  a  woman  with  such  a  tank  on  her  back. 


2o6  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Limpurg  Hereditary  Cupbearer  of  the  Holy  Roman  Empire  and 
Semi^er  Free,  and  of  the  most  worthy  and  erudite  Daniel  Gering  Dr. 
of  Lavvs.'"^ 

Pastorius  himself  gives  this  account: 

"J  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  was  born  at  Sommerhausen  in 
Franckcnland  the  26th  of  Sci)tembcr  between  i  &  2  a  clock  [  !]  in  the 
morning,  Anno  165 1.  &  had  (after  the  Lutheran  fashion,)  for  my 
God-fathers  Franciscus,  Semperfrey  of  Limburg,  and  Daniel  Gering, 
J.  U.  D.  living  at  Segnitz."** 

It  was  from  these  two  distinguished  godfathers,  young  Baron 
Franciscus  Count  of  Limpurg  (then  14  years  of  age),  and  His 
Excellency  Dr.  Gering  of  Segnitz,  that  Pastorius  received  his  two 
baptismal  names  "Franciscus"  (Franz)  and  "Daniel"  respectively. 

The  official  record  of  Pastorius'  baptism  is  found  in  the 
German  Taujhuch  of  Sommerhausen,  where  it  was  copied  and 
photographed  for  this  work.    The  original  runs  thus : 

Sequuntur  Baptisati  in  ao  165 1 

Franciscus  Daniel,  Fin  D.  Melch :  Adam  Pastorij  D.  J.  Sonlein 
getaufet,  "haben  es  aus  der  H.  Tauffe  gehoben,  oder  es  daselbst  ver- 
antwortet  vnd  ihren  Christl.  nahmen  mitgetheilet  der  Wohlgeborne 
Zeuge  Herr  Herr  Franciscus  H.  3  Limpurg  etc. ;  Wie  auch  Ihr  Ex- 
cellenz  FI.  D.  Gehring  zu  Segnitz  etc.  Den  27.  7bris.'' 

Two  events  of  Pastorius'  childhood  in  Sommerhausen  were 
deeply  graven  upon  his  memory.  One  was  a  sad  tragedy  in  the 
boy's  life,  the  death  of  his  mother  Magdalena,^*^  whose  piety  and 
gentleness  of  spirit  followed  him  into  the  wilds  of  the  new  world 


'  Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  115a. 

*  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222. 

'The  old  Church  Rook  has  three  divisions,  containing  Baptisms,  Burials 
and  Marriage?;  entered  in  this  order.  The  part  of  the  baptisms  extends  from 
1648  to  1747.  The  photographic  reproductions  were  secured  through  the 
kindness  of  Mr.  Sol.  Rosenberg  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  Lehrer 
Fr.  Gutmann  of  Sommerhausen. 

"Cf.  this  Life  of  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  Cap.  I  (German  American 
Annals,  IX,  164). 


/; 


/  y>     I*, 


Record  of  Pastokils'   Baptis.m 
;From  the  Church  Book  in  Sommerhausen) 


7 


.--^^M   J  (>    97. 


^^  ^'Vte,  '<^4  ^^"T^l  ^''W  V-^J  .yJ^flK 


Burial  Record  of  Pastorius'  Mother 
om   the  Church  Book  in  Sommerhausen) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastoriiis  207 

and  remained  a  benediction  to  him  till  the  end  of  his  days.  The 
other  event  was  of  a  more  trifling  nature,  but  interesting  because 
it  reflects  the  fondness  which  the  young  Baron  Franciscus,  his 
godfather,  cherished  for  him.  The  account  as  here  given  by 
Pastorius  in  his  own  words,  which  reflect  the  pietistic  spirit  of  his 
later  years  in  Germantown : 

"At  the  Removal  of  my  Father  from  Somerhausen  to  Wins- 
heim  the  sd  Semperfrey  [Franciscus]  clothed  me  in  red  Scarlet, 
giving  me  also  a  little  Sword,  a  hat  with  three  plumes  of  feathers  & 
a  pair  of  white  boots,  &c.  making  a  fool  of  me,  even  in  my  tenderest 
years. "^1 

In  Windsheim. 

The  removal  from  Sommerhausen  to  the  imperial  city  of 
Windsheim  in  1658  was  an  event  of  great  significance  in  the  life 
of  young  Pastorius.  While  Sommerhausen  as  a  tributary  of  the 
Archbishop  of  Wiirzburg  and  the  residence  of  the  Count  of  Lim- 
purg  was  a  town  of  great  provincial  importance,  Windsheim  was 
a  strongly  fortified  walled  city  of  the  empire  with  special  chartered 
privileges  and  dignities  and  in  close  touch  with  the  affairs  of  the 
empire.  ^^ 

Windsheim  is  situated  on  the  Aisch  and  is  a  very  ancient  city, 
dating  from  the  time  of  Emperor  Honorius.  It  was  laid  out  by 
Windegastus,  Privy  Councillor  of  King  Pharamundus  I.  in  the 
year  422.  According  to  Sigebertus  Gemblacensis^^  it  was  named 
after  Windegastus  and  meant  "Windegastsheim."  Melchior 
Adam  Pastorius  relates  that  in  his  time  the  following  verses  were 
still  to  be  read  on  the  wall  of  the  central  room  of  the  old  Rathaus : 


"  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222. 

"Cf.  M.  A.  Pastorius,  Kurtzc  Beschreibung  Des  H.  R.  Reichs  Stadt 
Windsheim,  and  also  in  later  more  condensed  form  Franconia  Rediviva  in 
the  chapter  entitled  "Chronica  Des  H.  Rom.  Reichs  Stadt  Windsheim,"  pp. 
315-340. 

*"  Cf.  his  Chronographia,  fol.  492. 


2o8  Francis  Daniel  Pastorins 

Pharamundus  dcr  Franckcn  Ilerr   | 
Bath  vicr  gelehrtcr  Manner  schr  | 
Um  G'sctz  dem  Volck  zu  statuirn 
Nach  den'  sichs  hatt  zu  regulirn 
Windcgast  der  verstandig  Mann  | 
Fieng  Windsheim  druf  zu  bauen  an. 

The  town  became  an  imperial  city  ("Reichs-Stadt")  in  1172 
by  a  decree  of  Friedrich  Barbarossa,  who  granted  it  the  "Privi- 
legia  Libertatis."  M.  A.  Pastoriiis  describes  the  city  as  having 
consisted  of  an  inner  or  older  town,  surrounded  by  a  wall,  the 
remains  of  which  were  visible  in  his  time,  and  the  outer  town, 
which  was  added  to  the  older  part  in  1424  for  protection  in  the 
Hussite  wars.  In  14 10  bridges  of  squares  of  red  sandstone  were 
erected  on  the  road  toward  Lenckersheim.  The  first  watchtower 
was  built  on  the  Weinberg  in  1428.  In  1555  large  stone  bridges 
were  built  over  the  Aisch  to  secure  the  Royal  Road,  or  King's 
Highway  (Via  Regia)  for  travelers.  There  were  three  gates: 
The  "Rotenburger  Thor,"  the  "See-Thor."  and  the  "Johannser- 
Thor,"  all  of  which  were  fortified  with  towers  and  defenses  in 
1587.  The  thick  wall  was  surrounded  by  a  double  water-moat. 
As  early  as  1582  a  tile  roof  was  constructed  over  the  wall,  so  the 
inhabitants  could  go  around  it  sheltered  from  the  weather.  The 
original  Rathaus,  built  very  early  of  wood,  was  enlarged  in  1564 
and  renovated  and  painted  in  1580. 

The  city  contained  in  Pastorius'  time  five  churches  and 
chapels : 

1.  Die  Pfarr-Kirche  S.  Kiliani,  begun  in  1190. 

2.  Die  Hospital-Kirche  zAim  Fleiligen  Geiste.  built  13 18. 

3.  Die  Capella  B.  M.  Virginis  im  See,  built  1403. 

4.  Die  Capell  Aller-Heiligen  im  Hang,  the  oldest  structure  in 

Windsheim,  then  no  longer  in  use. 

5.  Die  Capell  der  Karnder  (Karnter),  founder  not  known, 

not  in  use. 
A  sixth  church,  founded  by  Albrecht  von  Gailing  in  1291, 
was  turned  over  to  the  city  council  in  1525;  and  its  collection  of 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  209 

93  books  made  the  nucleus  of  the  City  Library,  ^^  which  numbers 
now  (1907)  some  6,000  volumes.  This  library  is  one  of  the 
most  valuable  among  the  provincial  collections  of  books  in  Ger- 
many, its  archives  running  back  to  1400.  In  Pastorius'  time  the 
city  had  a  German  school  ("Deutsche  Schule")  and  a  Latin 
school  (Gymnasium).  Both  schools  were  in  a  flourishing  condi- 
tion, much  attention  being  given  to  education. ^^ 

The  inner  administration  of  Windsheim  is  described  by  M. 
A.  Pastorius  as  "almost  aristocratic,  yet  with  a  certain  inclination 
toward  democracy. "^^ 

Among  the  notable  events^'^  which  Pastorius  must  have  wit- 
nessed in  Windsheim,  his  father  mentions  the  followingr: 

1659.  February  16. — Leopold  King  of  Hungary  and  Bohe- 
mia arrived  in  Windsheim  with  his  cousin  Leopold  Wilhelm, 
Archbishop  of  Austria,  and  remained  there  two  days. 

1663.  October  21. — Margrave  Christian  Ernst  and  Georg 
Albrecht  of  Brandenburg  with  their  spouses  and  a  retinue  of  sixty 
horse  visited  the  city  and  gave  a  collation  in  the  Ramminger 
House.  Count  Christian  von  Hohenlohe  and  Count  von  Castell 
were  present.  Seven  pieces  of  artillery  of  the  "See-Pastey"  sa- 
luted them  on  their  arrival  and  departure. 


"  Cf.  M.  A.  Pastorius,  Franconia  Rediviva,  p.  322  flf. 

^^'  Cf.  M.  A.  Pastorius,  Kiirtac  Beschreibting  Des  Reichs  Stadt  Windsheim, 
p.  61  ff. 

'"  Diese  Stadt  wird  fast  Aristocratisch,  jedoch  cum  aliquali  declinatione 
ad  Democratiam  guberniret,  durch  zwey  Raths-Collegia,  ein  Inneres  und  ein 
ausseres :  Das  Innere  bestehet  in  13,  und  das  aussere  in  12.  Personen, 
unter  denen  in  jcdem  Collcgio  4.  Burgemeistere.  Die  Innere  erwohlen  die 
aussere,  die  aussere  Herren  aber  wcrden  von  beeden  Collegiis  conjunctim  ge- 
wohlet  aus  der  Burgerschafft.     (Franconia  Rediviva,  p.  325.) 

"  In  1632  many  of  tbe  great  figures  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War  met  in 
Windsheim :  "1632.  Mense  Julio  der  Schwedische  Generalissimus  Carolus 
Gustaphus  Pfaltzgrafife  bey  Rhein,  Carl  Ludwig,  Churfiirst  zu  Heydelberg, 
und  sein  Bruder  Philippus.  Item  zween  Pfaltzgrafen  von  Saltzbach.  Zween 
Marggrafen  von  Baaden.  Item  die  Generales  Axel,  Lilie,  Dugglas,  Horn, 
Graf  Magnus  de  la  Garde,  General  Wrangel  etc.,  etc."  (Franconia  Rediviva, 
P-  335) 


2IO  Pfancis  Daniel  Pastorius 

1664.  January  19. — The  Elector  of  Trier,  Carl  Caspar  von 
der  Lay,  with  a  hundred  and  sixty  horse  spent  the  night  in  the 
city. 

1664.  January  26. — The  Prince  von  Fiirstenberg  of  Pa- 
derborn  went  around  the  wall  on  foot  with  a  hundred  horse. 

1664.  May  28. — Christoph  Bernhard  of  the  House  of  Ge- 
leen,  Bishop  of  Miinster,  lodged  in  Windsheim  with  sixty  horse. 

The  weather  conditions  and  fire  department  of  Windsheim 
are  graphically  reflected  in  the  following  account  of  a  storm 
which  occurred  May  3,  1666.  We  give  it  in  Melchior  Adam 
Pastorius'  own  words: 

1666.  Den  3.  May  gantz  zu  Abends  war  zu  Wnidsheim  ein 
sehr  grausames  Donner-Wetter,  dass  von  denen  vielen  Blitzen  es 
schiene,  als  ob  die  gantze  Stadt  im  Feuer  stunde,  endlich  schlug  ein 
grosser  Schiibel  Feuer  zu  oberist,  in  den  Pfarr-Thurn,  der  Flurer, 
so  zu  Wetter  leutete,  blieb  vom  Halle  tod,  bald  darauf  fieng  der 
Thurn  an  von  obenherab  zu  brennen,  und  hatte  man  zwo  Stunden 
lang  zu  thun,  bisz  man  das  Feuer  dampffete.  Auswendig  konte 
man  mit  keiner  Wasser-Kunst  hinauf  langen,  inwendig  war  es  so  eng, 
dasz  nur  eintzelte  Personen  iibereinander  auf  der  Laitern  stehen 
konten,  da  trug  man  alle  die  Milch  aus  dem  Hospital  und  sonst  zu- 
sammen,  diese  reichte  man  in  ledernen  Eymern  einander  zu,  und 
warff  der  letztere  die  leere  Eymer  durch  die  Luft  hinunter,  bisz  das 
Feuer  endlich  mit  Gottes  Hiilffe  gedampffet  wurde.^^ 

Unlike  Sommerhausen,  Windsheim  has  been  the  prey  of  fire 
and  of  the  ravages  of  time.  The  old  City  Hall  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  centre  of  the  city  were  burned  and  rebuilt,  and  the 
splendid  wall  of  Pastorius'  time  has  almost  entirely  disappeared. 
Notwithstanding  these  changes  much  of  the  city  still  stands,  re- 
taining its  antique  appearance,  as  the  accompanying  views  will 
show. 

At  the  time  of  his  father's  removal  from  Sommerhausen  to 
Windsheim  in  1658  Pastorius  was  a  boy  not  yet  seven  years  old, 
just  ready  to  attend  school.  He  entered  the  Latin  School,  or 
Gymnasium,   and   felt  the   reviving  touch  of  humanism  in  the 


Cf.  Franconia  Rediviva,  pp.  333-334- 


LlISRARY    AND    ARCHIVES    iN    WlNlJSHKIM    IN    I903. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  211 

person  of  its  Rector,  Tobias  Schumberg,  a  Hungarian,  who,  un- 
able to  speak  German  fluently,  forced  his  pupils  to  converse  in 
Latin.  In  his  Genealogical  Sketch  Pastorius  gives  the  following 
account  of  his  study  in  this  Gymnasium : 

"In  Winsheim  J  had  a  good  Schooling  &  mostly  twenty  or 
more  young  Earls,  Baronets  &  noble  mens  Children  for  School- 
fellows, there  being  then  an  excellent  Rector  of  the  Gymnasium  by 
name  Tobias  Schumberg,  a  Hungarian  by  birth,  who  could  speak 
almost  no  Dutch  [German],  so  that  it  was  not  allow'd  to  use  any 
other  Language  but  the  Latin,  &c."i'^ 

It  has  not  been  exactly  determined  when  Schumberg  became 
Rector  of  the  Gymnasium  at  Windsheim.  Melchior  Adam 
Pastorius  gives  the  following  list  of  the  Rectors  for  this  period : 

"1656     M.  Joh.  Wolffgang  Gilg 
16         Tobias  Schumberg 
1681     Daniel  Caspar  Jacobi."2f> 

As  we  see  the  first  date  of  Schumberg  is  left  blank. 

Rector  Schumberg  was  evidently  a  brilliant  Latinist  of  the 
late  Humanist  type  and  an  important  character  in  the  history  of 
the  Windsheim  Gymnasium.  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius,  the 
father  of  Daniel,  and  Scholarch  of  Windsheim,  devoted  the  fol- 
lowing significant  Latin  anagrams  and  an  acrostic  to  the  Rector : 

Acrostic  to  the  Rector : 
Tobias  Schvmbcrgivs.^^ 

Anagramma 

HIC  SVBSISTAM    VRGEBO. 

Salue  Windshemium,  salue  pia  Curia,  salue 

Cum  Templo  Verbum,  cumque  Schol    artis  opus. 

Gressu  hie  subsistam  post  deuia  longa  uiarum 
Hosque  Opus  vrgebo  sicce  volente  Deo. 

Intrepidus  faciam  quae  Recta,  sed  impia  pellam 
Gnarus  amare  Bonos  et  reprobare  Malos. 


"  Cf.    Beehive,   p.    222. 

^°Cf.  Kurtze  Beschreibnng  Dcs  H.  R.  Reiclts  Stadt  Windsheim,  p.  il. 

^  Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  70b. 


212  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

The  second  anagram  runs  as  follows  in  the  original : 

Tobias  Schvmhergivs  Pannonivs^^ 
Anagramma 

BONE   BONVM    PANGAS   IVSSV    CHRISTI. 

Ingenij  Dotes  Schunibergi  saepe  probasti 

Chare  Bonis,  hinc  te  Gloria  tuta  manet. 
Vir  Bone  pergo  bonum  tibi  foedus  cum  loue  pangas 

Et  iussu  Christi  commoda  nostra  iuues. 

Acrostiche 

Tantum  quisque  capit  laudis  mihi  crede  Tobia 

Optime,  demonstrant  quantum  cuiusque  Labores 

Blanda  pares  nunquam  Fortuna  negauit  honores 

Ingenuis  ausis,  superi  nihil  absque  labore 

Arbitus  addictis  diuendunt  adiuuat  ausus 

Sobria  mens,  veroque  ardens  industria  amore 

Sit  Labor  hinc  cardi,  Dominus  post  nubila  Phoebum 

Credenti  cordi  reuehit,  metuendaque  mergit. 

Hinc  iussis  confide  sacris  sectansque  labores 

Vir  Bone  perge  Bonum  tibi  foedus  cum  loue  pangas 

Melleus  et  jussu  Christi  bona  publica  pandas 

Blanda  docens  Benefactor  eris,  studiumque  iuuabis 

Et  te  Castalides  redamabunt,  addet  Iesvs 

Robur,  ut  inceptum  recta  ratione  geratur, 

Gaudia  sic  capies,  ibisque  per  ora  Virorum 

lustorum,  Phoebusque  tuos  resonabit  honores 

Viues  sic  vindex  Virtutum,  olimque  beatus 

Sedibus  sethereis  sancita  salaria   [  ?]    sumes. 

Still  another  Latin  poem  by  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  attests 
the  esteem  in  which  the  Hungarian  family  was  held  in  Windsheim. 
It  is  entitled : 

In  Fatum  laopinatum 
Tautoque  id  durius,  quanto  prrematurius 
Svsann?e  Margarethse  Shumbergianse.^^ 

Quid  fletis  natam,  quam  scitis  ad  Astra  leuatam 

Sit  licet  orba  Solo,  gestit  at  ilia  Polo. 
Spes  equidem  flentum  fuit  ilia  tenella  Parentum 

Intar  formosse  splenduit  atque  Rosse 


Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  74b. 
Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  94a. 


Gymnasium  in  Windsheim  in  1903. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  213 

Blandaque  subrisit,  quoties  Pater  hancce  reuisit 

Perfixitque  octilis  carda  [  ?]  paterna  suis 
Tolibus  at  cunctis  docuit  nos  ordine  punctis 

Quod  nihil  hacce  domo  stabile  gestet  Homo 
Omnis  in  hoc  ?eiio  spes  est  plenissima  nseuo. 

Spinis   formosa;  cinctaque  forma  Rosse 
Et  breuis  est  Risus,  prius  euolat  quam  bene  visus 

Per  momenta  Oculus  clauditur  ipse  tuus. 
Talibus  hinc  rebus  multis  superesse  diebus 

Nostra  Susanna  nequit.     Margaris  Astra  petit 
Hinc  pie  Schumberg-i  quid  fles  banc  funere  mergi 

Terrse  splendori  praetulit  ipsa  mori. 
Quam  gemis  ablatam  nosti  super  athera  natam 

Quae  nunc  Angelici  pars  micat  usque  Chori 
Idque  scias  tutus  quod  tu  quoque  morte  solutus 

Alloquio  Natae  ssepe  fruere  tuae 
Interea  totus  tua  consolatio  iesvs 

Discutiat  lachrimas  a  facie  Ipse  tuas. 

The  poetic  epistle  written  by  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  to  his 
old  preceptor  Schumberg,  Rector  of  the  Gymnasium  at  Winds- 
heim,  may  be  regarded  both  as  a  tribute  of  respect  and  devotion 
and  a  modest  effort  on  the  part  of  the  disciple  to  emulate  the 
Latin  style  of  the  preceptor.  The  Latinity  of  the  epistle  shows 
that  the  master's  instructions  produced  fluency  and  graceful 
rhythm  at  least,  and  may  serve  us  as  a  choice  specimen  of  the 
Latin  style  of  the  great  German  pioneer  in  America : 

Literae  Francisci   Danielis   Pastorii, 

ex  Pensylvania. 

Ad  Tobiam  Schumbergium,  quondam 

Praeceptorem  suum. 

De  Mnndi  Vanitatc?^ 

VAle  Mundi  gemebundi  colorata  Gloria 

Tua  bona,  tua  dona  sperno  transitoria 

Quae  externe,  hodierne,  splendent  pulchra  facie, 

Cras  venescunt  &  liquescunt  sicut  Sal  in  glacie. 

Quid  sunt  Reges?   quorum  Leges  terror  sunt  mortalibus, 

Multi  Locis  atque  focis  latent  infernalibus. 

Ubi  Vani,  crine  cani  Maximi  Pontifices? 


"  Cf.  Umstdndige  Geographischc  Beschreibung  Der  su  allerletst  erfundenen 
Provintc  Pensylvaniae.     1704.     pp.  62-63. 


214  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Quos  honorant  &  adorant  Cardinales  siipplices. 
Quid  pcriti?     Eruditi  sunt  Doctores  Artium, 
Quid  sunt  Haruni,  vcl  Illarum  studiosi  partiuni? 
Ubi  truces  Belli  Duces?     Capita  militis? 
Quos  accendit  &  defendit  rabies  savitise. 
Tot  &  tanti,  quanti  quanti,  umbra  sunt  &  vanitas, 
Omne  Horum  nam  Decorum  brevis  est  inanitas. 
Qui  vixerunt,  abierunt,  restant  sola  Nomina, 
Tanquam  stata  atcjue  rata  nostrse  sortis  (3mina. 
Fuit  Cato,  fuit  Plato,  Cyrus,  Croesus,  Socrates, 
Periander,  Alexander,  Xerxes  &  Hippocrates, 
Maximinus  Constantinus,  Gyges.  Anaxagoras, 
Epicurus,  Palinurus,  Dsemonax,  Pythagoras. 
Cjesar  fortis,  causa  mortis,  tot  altarum  partium, 
Ciceronem  &  Nasonem  nil  juvabat  Artium 
Sed  Hos  cunctos  jam  defunctos  tempore  prseterito, 
Non  est  e  re  [?],  recensere.     Hinc  concludo  merito: 
Qui  nunc  degunt,  atque  regunt  Orbem  hujus  seculi, 
Mox  sequentur,  &  labentur  velut  Schema  speculi. 
Et  dum  mersi  universi  sunt  in  mortis  gremium, 
Vel  In  fern  um.  vel  externum  sunt  capturi  premium. 
Hincce  Dei  jesv  mei  invoco  Clemcntiam, 
Vt  Is  sursum,  cordis  cursum  ducat  ad  Essentiam. 
Trinitatis,  qus  Beatis  summam  dat  Lsetitiam.-"' 

These  Latin  poems  to  Schumberg  are  introduced  here  to 
suggest  the  Latin  atmosphere  of  the  Gymnasium  of  Windsheim 
in  which  Pastorius  acquired  his  preparation  for  the  university. 
Pastorius  dedicated  to  his  old  preceptor  Schumberg  his  first  book 
bearing  an  American  imprint,  entitled : 

Vier  kleine  |  Doch  ungemcine  |  Und  sehr  nutzliche  |  Tractatlein 
*  *  *  *  Germanopoli  |  Anno  Christi  M.DC.XC.^^^ 


^'That  this  Latin  epistle  attracted  attention  among  Pastorius'  fellow  Ger- 
mans in  America  even  after  his  death  is  seen  from  a  copy  of  the  major  part 
of  the  letter  found  written  in  David  Schultze's  copy  of  Christoph  Sauer's 
Calendar  for  1756,  now  in  the  possession  of  Ex-Governor  Samuel  W.  Penny- 
packer,  who  kindly  permitted  the  writer  to  compare  the  text  with  the  original 
print.  The  copy  was  evidently  made  from  the  Beschrcibung,  as  it  agrees,  as 
far  as  copied,  with  the  print,  except  that  the  Schultze  copy  has  "Preceptorera'' 
in  the  title. 

^The  imprint  is  generally  recognized  to  be  fictitious.  (Cf.  S.  W.  Penny- 
packer,  The  Settlement  of  Gcrmantown,  Pennsylvania,  etc.,  pp.  118,  121.) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  215 

Another  indication  of  the  intellectual  alertness  of  Winds- 
heim  of  this  period  is  found  in  the  rich  collection  of  books  stored 
in  the  library  previously  referred  to  in  this  chapter.  Here  are 
found  many  vellums  that  bespeak  the  scholastic  intelligence  re- 
flected by  Schumberg.  Among  the  books  of  particular  interest 
to  us  are  a  copy  of  Tentzel's  series  of  publications,  Monatliche 
Unterredungcn  einigcr  guten  Frcunde  von  allerhand  Biichdrn  und 
anderen  annehmlichen  Geschichten  etc.  (1689- 1706),  in  which 
the  earlier  accounts  of  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius^'^  describing  the 
province  of  Pennsylvania  and  the  life  of  this  part  of  the  new 
world,  the  original  manuscript  draft  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius' 
Beschreibung  des  H.  Reichs  Stadt  IVindsheini^^  and  a  printed 
copy  of  his  Fasciculus  Rhythmorum?^ 

The  association  of  Pastorius  with  the  sons  of  many  old  and 
influential  German  families  while  a  student  at  the  Gymnasium 
of  Windsheim  must  have  been  of  inestimable  advantage  to  him 
in  after  years,  had  he  remained  to  practice  his  profession  in  his 
native  land.  It  is  clear  that  he  enjoyed  the  best  educational  op- 
portunities which  his  country  afforded,  and  that  he  must  have 
had  his  eyes  opened  to  the  newest  knowledge  demanded  by  those 
who  were  afterwards  to  take  foremost  rank  in  the  world  of 
affairs. 

At  the  University. 

The  German  student  of  the  seventeenth  century  had  two 
periods  of  journeying  (" Wander jahre") — the  years  of  study  at 
various  universities,  and  the  years  of  foreign  travel.  The  univer- 
sity study  was  not  confined  to  one  institution,  but  was  pursued 
at  a  number  of  universities  as  at  the  present  day.  After  finishing 
his  university  studies,  the  young  Licentiate  or  Doctor  went  on  a 
long  journey  into  other  lands  to  study  the  life  and  languages  of 


*' Cf.   Julius   Goebel,   Zwei  unbckannte   Brief e  von   Pastorius    (German 
American  Annals,  N.  S.  II,  492-503). 

^Cf.  Chap.  I  (German  American  Annals,  IX). 
**€£.  Life  of  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  Chap.  I. 


2i6  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

other  peoples  before  entering;  upon  his  professional  or  academic 
career  at  home.  Thus  men  like  Martin  Opitz,  Paul  Fleming, 
Andreas  Gryphius  spent  the  most  profitable  years  of  their  lives 
in  travel.  The  countries  usually  visited  were  Holland,  France, 
Italy,  Switzerland  and  England.  Even  the  father  of  Pastorius 
visited  most  of  these  countries  and  we  shall  find  Pastorius  him- 
self taking  a  similar  tour  with  Johann  Bonaventure  von  Bodeck. 
Pastorius  attended  four  great  universities  of  his  time — Alt- 
dorf,  Strassburg,  Basel,  Jena,  beginning  and  finishing  his  studies 
at  his  home  university  Altdorf.  It  has  been  possible  with  the 
sources  still  extant  to  trace  with  considerable  detail  his  course  at 
these  universities. 

I.  At  the  University  of  Altdorf. 

In  the  year  1668  Pastorius  left  Windsheim  to  enter  the  uni- 
versity of  Altdorf.  Here  he  matriculated  with  three  of  his  fellow 
Windsheimers,  July  31,  as  the  following  entry  in  the  Matricula- 
tion Book^"  of  the  old  university  of  Altdorf  will  show : 

M.  lulio. 
31.    Johannes  Matthaeus  Stellwag.  '\ 

Johan.  Joachimus  Merckling.      V  Windshemio-Franci 
Georg.  Leonliarttis  Modelius      ) 
Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius,  Somerhusanus.^* 
10016  [Number  of  matriculant]. 


'"  The  Matriculation  Book  of  the  University  of  Altdorf  is  now  found 
in  the  Library  of  the  University  of  Erlangen,  where  the  Librarian  kindly  and 
most  promptly  placed  them  at  the  disposal  of  the  writer  in  1903.  The  heading 
under  the  year  1668  runs  thus : 

Designatio  |  Studiosorum,  qui  sub  ]  Rectoratu  Plurimum  Reverendi 
atque  Excellcntissimi  |  Viri.  Un.  M.  Lucse  Fricderci  Reinharts  S.  S.  Theol. 
I  Prof.  Publici  ct  Ecclesiie  Ministri  S.  Sunt  inscripti  a.  d.  29  |  d.  30  Junii  1668. 
usque  ad.  d.  30  Junii,  1669. 

The  Matriculation  Book  has  the  following  title : 

In  Nomine  Nostri  [  Jesu  Christi  |  Matricnla  |  Facultatis  Juridicae  |  in 
Universitate  |  Altdorphina|  Feliciter  incipit  |  Ao  Chi.  |  MDCXXIII  [A  copy 
of  the  original  is  found  in  the  Germanic  Museum  in  Niirnberg.] 

"  According  to  custom  Pastorius  matriculated  as  from  Sommerhausen, 
the  place  of  his  birth.    This  explains  the  term  "Somerhusanus." 


Tow  KR      AT     AlTDORF     IN      I903. 

(Church  End  of  the  Town.) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  217 

The  university  of  Altdorf,  or  "Niirnberg  University  of  Alt- 
dorf,"  as  it  was  often  called,  had  its  origin  in  Niirnberg  in  the 
epoch  of  the  Reformation,  when  the  old  city  of  Niirnberg  was 
the  centre  of  German  handicraft  and  poesy  under  the  influence 
of  Albrecht  Diirer  and  Hans  Sachs.  The  institution  had  five  dis- 
tinct stages  of  evolution : 

1.  The  Gymnasium  Aegidiitm  in  Niirnberg,  organized  by 
the  great  colleague  of  Martin  Luther,  Philipp  Melanchthon,  in 
1526.  Among  the  early  teachers  in  the  Gymnasium  were  Joach. 
Camerarius,  Hel.  Eoh.  Hessus,  Mich.  Roting,  Joh.  Schoner  and 
Joh.  Boschenstein. 

2.  The  Gymnasium  at  Altdorf ,  1571-1575.  With  the  decline 
of  the  Gymnasium  in  Niirnberg  it  was  found  advisable  to  move 
the  school  to  the  country.  The  proposal  was  made  by  Camerarius 
from  Leipzig.  Three  places  were  suggested :  Hersbruck,  Engel- 
thal  and  Altdorf.  The  last  named  was  selected.  The  first  Rector 
of  the  Altdorf  Gymnasium  was  Valentin  Erythraeus,  who  was 
called  from  Strassburg.  The  old  Niirnberg  Gymnasium  passed 
from  a  "Quadrivial"  to  a  "Trivial"  School. 

3.  The  Altdorf  Academy.  In  1578  the  Altdorf  Gymnasium 
was  granted  academic  privileges  and  in  1580  reinaugurated  as 
an  academy,  with  Philipp  Camerarius,  son  of  the  above  mentioned 
Joachim,  as  its  first  Procancellarius,  and  Joh.  Thom.  Freigius  as 
its  first  Rector. 

4.  The  University  of  Altdorf.  The  number  of  students  at 
the  Altdorf  academy  in  the  years  1 620-1 621  rose  to  some  seven 
hundred.  Accordingly  the  city  fathers  of  Niirnberg  in  1622  re- 
quested and  obtained  of  Emperor  Ferdinand  IL  tiie  privilege 
of  raising  the  academy  to  the  rank  of  a  university  with  authority 
to  grant  degrees  in  the  faculties  of  Philosophy,  Law  and  Medi- 
cine.   The  university  was  formally  inaugurated  in  1623. 

5.  The  Completion  of  the  University  by  the  Addition  of  the 
Faculty  of  Theology.  The  privilege  of  granting  degrees  in  The- 
ology, at  first  withheld  because  of  the  turmoil  of  the  Thirty 


2i8  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Years'  War,  was  finally  given  in  1696,  thus  completing  the  four 
faculties  of  the  university. 

Thus  we  have  the  explanation  why  the  great  city  of  Niirn- 
berg,  the  centre  of  German  culture  in  the  sixteenth  century,  had 
no  university  within  its  walls.  It  had  a  university,  but  it  was 
located  at  Altdorf.  Hence  the  term :  "Niirnbergische  Universi- 
tat''  for  the  University  of  Altdorf. 

The  University  of  Altdorf  in  Pastorius'  time  was  one  of  the 
foremost  academic  schools  of  Germany,  attracting  to  its  halls  not 
only  the  most  select  youth  of  Bavaria  and  neighboring  countries, 
but  from  foreign  lands  as  well.  Students  came  from  France, 
Lorraine.  England.  Scotland,  Ireland,  Sweden,  Denmark.  Poland, 
Prussia,  Livonia,  Bohemia.  Hungary,  Transilvania  and  even 
from  Greece  and  Egypt. ^^  Here  the  afterwards  famous  Wallen- 
stein  of  Schiller's  great  drama  IVallensfein  matriculated  under 
his  proper  name  Waldstein  in  the  year  1599.  as  the  following 
record  shows : 

D.  29.  Aug.  1599.  Albertus  a  Waldstein,  Bare  Boh.  [Dux 
Megapolitanus  factus  tandem  violentam  (sic!)  mortem  obiit 
Egr?e  1634,  15.  Febr.]33 

The  house  in  which  Waldstein  lived  was  still  standing  in  1903 
much  as  it  looked  in  1600.  Many  anecdotes  of  Wallenstein's 
career  as  a  student  have  been  published  by  Wills. ^^  Some  fifty 
princes,  counts  and  barons  had  been  enrolled  from  the  beginning 
of  the  university  to  Pastorius'  time.  Among  them  was  the  name 
of  Franciscus,  Baron  in  Limpurg,  godfather  of  Pastorius.  The 
university  celebrated  in  grand  style  its  centennial,  in  1723,  after 
the    manner    of    Wittenberg     (1704).     Frankfurt-an-der-Oder 


''Cf.  Wills,  Gcschichtc  u.  Beschrcibung,  p.  141. 

*'  Cf.  Georg  Andreas  Wills,  Geschichte  und  Beschrcibung  der  NUrnbergi- 
schcn  Unirersifdt  Altdorf.  Altdorf,  1795,  p.  142.  The  note  in  brackets  was 
added  by  Wills. 

**  In  Historiscli-Di[>Iomatischcs  Magazin  fiir  das  Vaterland  und  angren- 
sende  Gegenden,  I,  221  ff. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  219 

(1706),  Giessen  (1707),  Leipzig  (1709),  and  Rinteln  (1721). 
The  account  of  the  centennial  was  printed  in  a  separate  tome,^^ 
with  a  number  of  fine  copper  engravings.  The  prosperity  of  the 
university  of  Ahdorf  finally  waned  after  the  founding  of  the  uni- 
versities of  Halle,  Gottingen  and  Erlangen,  and  was  finally  dis- 
continued or  rather  transferred  and  united  with  Erlangen  in 
1809.  The  old  buildings  still  stand  at  Altdorf  in  a  good  state  of 
preservation,  little  changed  in  external  appearance,  but  are  now 
used  as  a  paedagogium  or  teachers'  seminary.  A  number  of  views 
will  illustrate  the  buildings  as  they  appeared  in  Pastorius'  time  and 
at  present. 

The  inner  life  of  the  university  in  the  time  of  Pastorius  will 
be  of  interest  here.  The  Rector  at  the  time  of  Pastorius'  matricu- 
lation was  Lucas  Friedrich  Reinhart.  He  was  succeeded  by  Ernst 
Cregel  (1669),  Moritz  Hoffmann  (1670).  The  Rector  in  1673, 
when  Pastorius  entered  Altdorf  the  second  itime,  was  Johann  Con- 
rad Diirr.  The  Dean  who  presided  at  his  disputation  was  Johann 
Anton  Geiger,  J.  U.  D.  The  Procancellarius  for  the  years  1666- 
1692,  including  the  period  of  Pastorius'  studies,  was  Magnus  Fet- 
zer.  ■  ■  ■   '^'^'^m 

Wills^®  gives  the  list  of  Rectors  for  the  decade  1668- 1676  as 

follows : 

Lukas  Friedrich  Reinhart. 
D.  Ernst  Cregel. 
D.  Moritz  Hoffmann. 
Christoph  Molitor. 
Johann  Conrad  Diirr. 


''  The  book  has  the  following  title : 

Acta  I  Sacrorvm  Saccvlarium  |  qvae  |  Favente  |  Deo  Immortali  |  sub 
Avspicatissimo  Gloriosissimoqve  Imperio  |  Caroli  VI  |  Avgvstissimi  atqve 
Iiivictissimi  |  Romanorvm  Tmpcratoris  |  ex  Avctoritatc  ct  Mvnificentia  | 
Illustris  I  Senatvs  Norimbergensis  |  A.  D.  Ill  Kal.  Qvinctil.  A.  S.  R. 
CIOIOCCXXIII  I  Pio  Solenniqve  Ritv  |  Celebravit  |  Acadcmia  Altorfina.  | 
Excvdebat  |  lodoc.  Gvil.  Kohlesivs  Acad.  Typogr. 

A  copy  of  this  book  is  to  be  found  in  the  Library  of  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania. 

'*Cf.  Geschichte  und  Beschreihung,  p.  41 ;  also  Acta  Sacrurum  saecuhrium, 
fol.  so. 


220  Francis  Daniel  Pastoritcs 

D.  Georg  Reichart  Hammer. 
D.  Jakob  Pancratius  Bruno. 
Johaim  Christoph  Sturm. 
D.  Johann  Saubertus. 

The  faculties  of  Altdorf  were  composed  of  many  men  of 
world-wide  fame.  The  Professors  of  Jurisprudence^'^  were  par- 
ticularly noted  for  their  erudition.  It  is  only  necessary  to  men- 
tion the  names  of  Joh.  Thom.  Freigius;  Hubert  Giphanius  (or 
von  Giffen),  jurist,  philologian  and  philosopher  all  in  one;  Hugo 
Donellus  (or  Doneau),  of  Chatillon-sur-Saone,  France;  Peter 
Wesenbeck,  of  Antwerp,  who  won  renown  in  Jena  and  Leipzig; 
Scipio  Gentilis,  an  Italian  and  pupil  of  Donellus;  Conrad  and 
Nikolaus  Rittershausen,  father  and  son;  Matthias  Hiibner,  the 
Pommeranian;  Wilhelm  Ludwell  (or  Ludweil),  whose  opinion 
was  sought  by  nearly  every  court  of  the  empire ;  Ernst  Cregel,  of 
Pastorius'  own  time,  who  had  been  the  first  Professor  of  Public 
Law  at  Altdorf  since  1657,  Altdorf  having  had  the  distinction  of 
being  the  first  university  in  Germany  to  establish  a  separate  chair 
for  Public  Law  (Jus  Publicum)  ;  and  Christoph  Wagenseil,  who 
received  a  pension  from  Louis  XIV.,  King  of  France,  was  a  great 
authority  on  Rabbinical  lore,  the  inventor  of  the  "Wassertretter," 
and  author  of  an  encyclopedia.  Pera  LibronSm  luvenilium,  in  six 
volumes. 

The  professors  of  Pastorius'  time  at  Altdorf  who  were  most 
prominent  were:  Reinhart  (Theology,  died  1688);  Hoffmann 
(Medicine,  d.  1698)  ;  Diirr  (Ethics,  Poetry  and  Theology,  d. 
1677) ;  Cregel  (Jurisprudence,  d.  1674)  ;  Molitor  (Oriental  Lan- 
guages, d.  1674)  ;  Bruno  (Medicine)  ;  Textor  (Jurisprudence, 
called  to  Heidelberg,  1673)  ;  Wagenseil  (Jurisprudence  and  Ori- 
ental Languages,  d.  1705)  ;  Sturm  (Physics  and  Mathematics, 
d.  1704;  Hammer  (Jurisprudence,  d.  1697);  Saubert  (Theol- 
ogy, d.  1688)  ;  Linck  (Jurisprudence,  d.  1696)  ;  Geiger  (Juris- 


"The  details  of  the  careers  of  Altdorf's  great  jurists  may  be  found  in 
Vitae  Profcssorum  Iiiris  qui  in  Academia  Altoriina  inde  ab  eius  iactis  funda- 
mentis  vixcrimt-descriptac  a  C.  S.  Zeidler.     Nor.  1786,  1787.  4. 


OJt^ 


The  University  of  Altdorf  in  1723. 
(From  "  Acta  Sacrorum  Saecularium".) 


i  /y  'rr.  v;„  4  ^  '  ''^'  '(/ffffft  /  ^ff'/ifrfttd/is, .  -{/^oz/r/if/r  .  ( -^  '^» '  j)  - ,.  ^ 


The  University  of  Altdorf  in  1795. 
(With  the  addition  of  the  Front  Building.) 


Fra7icis  Daniel  Pastor ius  221 

prudence,  d.  1685)  ;  Moller  (Oriental  Languages  and  History,  d. 

1712).     Pastorius  mentions  Reinhart,  Diirr,  Linck,  and  Geiger 

particularly  in  his  manuscript  accounts. 

The  custom  of  requiring  the  students  to  take  the  oath  was 

in  vogue  at  Altdorf.    A  different  form  of  oath  was  administered 

to  the  students  of  the  several  faculties — one  for  Law,  another  for 

Medicine,  still  another  for  Theology,  and  even  for  the  Masters 

and  Poets  Laureate.     The  following  was  the  oath  required  of 

jurists: 

luramentum  Candidatorum  in  utroque  lure. 

Ego  N.  N.  jure,  me  ornamenta  Docturse,  posteaquam  ea  hodie 
accepero,  nequaquam  amplius  petiturum,  nee  ultro,  a  quibuscunque 
oblata,  denuG  recepturum :  Largitione  illicita,  profusioneve,  honoris 
huius  consequendi  gratia,  nee  usum  esse,  nee  posthac  usurum : 
Inclytae  Reipubl.  Norimbergensis,  ut  et  Vniversitatis  Altorphinse, 
filiae  ipsius,  Ordinis  prassertim  lurisconsultorum,  honorem,  commoda, 
utiiitatem,  quovis  loco,  quocunque  tempore,  pro  virili  procuraturum : 
dignitatem  comiter  conservatarum :  ornamenta  honorum,  a  luriscon- 
sultis  tribui  solita,  non  collaturum,  nee  consensurum,  ut  tribuantur  ei, 
quem  eius  gradus  decore  indignum  ex  fide  mea  arbitratus  fuero :  Nee 
etiam  commimi  auctoritate  probatvim,  sine  consensu  voluntateque 
ordinis,  insignibus  aucturum.  Quod  superest,  boni  viri  officio  in 
legibus  potissimum  interpretandis,  jure  respondendo,  profitendo,  ad- 
vocando,  agendo,  defendendo,  judicando,  functurum:  uti  id  juris, 
sequitatis,  justitseque  consultum  facere  oportiet  et  par  est.  Ita  me 
Deus  adjuvet  !^^ 

Students  at  Altdorf  seem  to  have  enjoyed  very  unusual 
academic  freedom,  especially  in  the  earlier  period.  The  excessive 
Pennalism,  which  had  assumed  alarming  proportions,  was  quite 
effectually  checked  at  Altdorf  by  the  radical  measures  instituted 
against  it  in  1661,  so  that  students  were  less  subject  to  inhumani- 
ties than  before.  Traces  of  it  were  still  in  vogue,  however,  in 
Pastorius'  time,  as  he  speaks  of  the  students  initiating  novices 
"with  abundance  of  iinpertinent  ceremonies."     The  career  penal- 


^  Cf.  Wills,  Geschichte  und  Beschreibung,  p.  366. 

A  glimpse  into  the  academic  life  of  Altdorf  can  be  found  in  B.  Hartmann's 
Kulturbilder  aus  Altdorf s  akademischer  Vergangenheit  {in  Mitt.  d.  Ver.  f. 
d.  Gesch.  d.  Stadt  Niirnberg.   1886). 


222  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

ties  were  less  severe  here  than  at  other  universities.  The  life  at 
Altdorf  was  especially  agreeable,  and  living  cheap.  The  climate 
was  most  favorable  and  the  vicinity  even  romantic,  because  of  its 
beautiful  walks,  such  as  the  Via  Philosophica,  Via  Scipionis,  Via 
ad  Ruperti  Fonticulum,^^  Poetenwdldgen,*^  Lbwengruhe,  and 
Pfaifenthal.  The  dress  of  professors  and  students  before  the  sec- 
ond half  of  the  seventeenth  century  was  very  simple.  The  wig 
was  not  worn  by  the  professors  before  1650.  Even  as  late  as 
1 67 1  the  students  demolished  the  wig  which  one  of  their  number 
ventured  to  wear.  The  wig,  however,  came  into  vogue  in  the  last 
decades  of  the  seventeenth  century.  Both  professors  and  students 
wore  red  gowns  even  to  the  lectures,  and  the  older  students  car- 
ried swords  and  canes.  The  radical  change  in  the  costume  about 
Pastorius'  time  may  explain  his  leaving  the  university  in  1673  to 
go  to  Jena,  as  he  says,  because  "not  liking  the  place  for  some 
reasons." 

The  economy  of  Altdorf  student  life  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury must  have  been  strikingly  in  contrast  with  that  at  most  uni- 
versities of  to-day.  In  1785  Professor  Konig  wrote  that  the  Alt- 
dorf student  could  procure  the  necessaries,  exclusive  of  clothing, 
for  300  florins  a  year,  could  live  well  for  400  florins,  and  sumptu- 
ously for  500  florins."*^ 

The  Altdorf  students  had  little  social  diversion  in  the  way 
of  amusements,  except  such  as  they  extemporized  in  amateur  per- 
formances, and  dances. 

The  spirit  of  Altdorf  seems  to  have  been  exceptionally  good. 
Wills  writes  more  than  a  century  after  Pastorius'  time  even  of 
the  professors,  that  they  had  always  lived  harmoniously  together 
and  that  the  lecture  room  never  became  here,  as  at  many  other 
universities,  a  scene  of  personal  hostility. 


"  Cf.  Wills,  Gcschichtc  und  Beschreibung,  p.  41. 

'"'  Cregel  married  the  widow  of  the  Augsburg  patrician  Anton  Welser, 
who  died  in  1642.     Cf.  Wills,  Geschichte  und  Beschreibung,  p.  293. 

"  Cf.  Das  akademische  Lehrbuch  fur  studicrende  Jiinglinge.  Niirnberg, 
1785,  p.  406  ff.,  and  Wills,  Geschichte  und  Beschreibung,  p.  273. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  223 

Pastorius  gives  the  following  brief  but  interesting  account  of 
his  entrance  to  the  university  of  Altdorf : 

"Anno  1668,  the  31st  of  July  J  went  with  some  others  to  the 
University  of  Altdorf,  there  to  be  Jnnitiated  among  Students  (which 
they  call  Deponiren)  giving  to  those  Novices  with  abundance  of  im- 
pertinent Ceremonies  the  Salt  of  Wisdom,  Sal  Sapientiae,  &c.  and  aho 
1670.  the  nth  of  August  to  the  University  of  Strassburg,  where  J 
studied  the  Laws  &  likewise  made  a  beginning  to  learn  French. ""^^ 

The  "some  others"  mentioned  by  Pastorius  were,  of  course, 
the  three  Windsheimers,  Stellwag,  Merckling  and  Modelius,  who 
matriculated  the  same  day.  Just  what  Pastorius  studied  at  Alt- 
dorf he  does  not  tell  us  in  detail,  but  the  fact  that  he  specifies  the 
"Laws"  as  his  chief  study  at  Strassburg  would  lead  us  to  believe 
that  he  devoted  himself  to  a  more  general  curriculum,  including 
the  humanities,  at  Altdorf,  the  course  quite  generally  pursued  by 
German  students  in  their  first  years  at  the  university,  and  one  to 
be  strongly  recommended  to  American  students  of  our  own  time. 

2.  At  the  University  of  Strassburg. 

According  to  the  above  cited  account  Pastorius  left  Altdorf 
in  1670  and  entered  the  university  of  Strassburg  in  Alsace. 

The  Strassburg  Matriculation  Book  contains  the  following 
entry: 

Matricula  Studiosorum  Philosophic 
98.     S.  R.   Saltzmann  D. 
1670 

Sept.  2  [2929]43  jg  Johannes  Matthaeus  Stellwagen,  Winds- 
heimio-Francus 
2    (2930)    19  Franciscus   Daniel   Pastorius,   Somerhu- 
sano-Francus.'*4 

"Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222.  It  will  be  noticed  that  Pastorius  has  translated 
the  Latin  Jura,  German  Rechte,  literally  by  the  English  plural  "Laws,"  to 
designate  both  kinds  of  law,  Canon  Law  and  Civil  Law,  a  conception  still 
surviving  in  our  title  LL.D.,  Doctor  of  Laws,  and  the  more  discriminating 
English  titles  D.Cn.L.  and  D.C.L. 

"Number  supplied  here  from  the  series  by  the  present  writer. 

**  Cf.  Die  alten  Matrikeln  der  Universitdt  Strassburg  1621  bis  1793,  bear- 
beitet  von  Gustav  C.  Knod.     Strassburg,  Triibner,  1897  (L  364). 


224  Francis  Daniel  Pasiorius 

He  informs  us  in  an  unprinted  manuscript  ^^  account  that  he 
went  to  Strassburg  with  Stellwag  and  Rosstauscher  and  took 
lodging  and  meals  at  the  house  of  Johann  Gumprecht.  The  same 
manuscript  contains  two  accounts  of  his  university  study,  one  a 
more  general  sketch,  the  other  full  of  interesting  detail,*^  from 
which  w^e  draw  the  following  facts : 

After  matriculating  under  the  Rector  Magnificus  Saltzmann, 
September  2,  1670,  he  began,  September  28,  a  course  in  the  Insti- 
tutes ("Collegium  Instit")  given  by  Ulrici,  October  3  another 
in  Ethics  and  Politics  by  Reinhard;  in  November  he  began  to 
take  French  instruction  of  Monsieur  Ritter;  January  16,  1671,  a 
course  in  the  Institutes  by  Obrecht ;  Alarch  16  he  took  lodgings 
with  the  Bookseller  (Antiquarius)  and  meals  with  Frau  Lucretia, 
but  soon  returned  to  Gumprecht,  where  he  continued  till  his  de- 
parture from  Strassburg.  In  the  months  of  April  and  May  he 
continued  his  French  lessons  with  Monsieur  Mirabeau.  On  the 
13th  of  August  he,  together  with  Reinhard  and  Mercklein,  began 
private  lessons  with  Dd  Schmaltz,  paying  22  Reichsthaler  for 
the  year. 

At  Strassburg  he  entered  a  new  academic  atmosphere,  for 
this  city  then,  as  in  Goethe's  time  and  to  some  extent  even  now, 
formed  the  cultural  gateway  between  the  German  and  French 
speaking  peoples,  in  a  w-ord,  between  Germany  and  Romanic  Gaul. 
That  the  French  traditions  were  then  strong  in  Strassburg  is 
apparent  from  the  fact  that  Pastorius  devoted  much  time  to  the 
study  of  the  French  language  with  the  evident  determination  to 
master  it,  for  he  kept  up  the  study  till  the  end  of  his  stay  in 
Strassburg,  taking  instruction  of  three  teachers :  Ritter,  Mirabeau, 
Dutrue  and  possibly  also  Schmaltz,  although  he  does  not  say  ex- 
plicitly that  the  "privat  Information"  given  by  Schmaltz  was 
French. 


^  Francisci  Danielis  Paslorij  Res  Propriae,  now  in  the  possession  of  the 
Historical  Society  of  Pennsjlvania. 

**  Entitled :  "Additamenta  zu  vorgchendem  meinem  Lebens-Lauff  von 
pag.  5-" 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  225 

It  will  be  noted  that  Pastorius  matriculated  in  the  Faculty 
of  Philosophy  at  Strassburg,  although  he  distinctly  states  that  he 
"studied  the  Laws."  While  he  may  liave  devoted  some  time  to 
strictly  philosophical  courses,  we  find  him  busy  from  first  to  last 
with  Jurisprudence.  In  addition  to  the  courses  in  the  Institutes 
under  Ulrici  and  Obrecht,  and  the  course  in  Ethics  and  Politics 
under  Reinhard,  he  seems  to  have  laid  particular  stress  on  the 
course  in  Public  Law  {^]us  Publicwn)  under  Boeckler.  He  refers 
to  this  as  of  service  to  him  later  in  his  study  of  the  Imperial  Code 
at  Regensburg,  where  the  Imperial  Diet  was  held : 

"J  travelled  unto  Regenspurg,  where  the  Diet  of  the  Empire  was 
then  kept  [held],  in  order  to  be  the  fullier  instructed  in  Jure  publico, 
whereof  J  formerly  was  taught  some  certain  principles  by  the  re- 
nowned Dr.  Bockler  at  Strassburg."^" 

3.  At  the  University  of  Basel. 

Pastorius  states  that  he  "visited"  the  University  of  Basel  in 
July,  1672: 

"July  13th  1672  made  a  tour  with  Mercklein,  Litzheimer  and 
Reichmann  to  Schlettstatt,  Colmar  and  Basel." 

It  would  appear  from  the  use  of  the  word  "tour"  ("Reis") 
and  the  fact  that  he  took  up  a  three  months'  course  of  French 
with  Dutrue  in  Strassburg  in  the  following  August,  tliat  he  must 
have  returned  to  Strassburg  by  early  August.  He  employed  the 
English  term  "visited"  evidently  to  translate  the  German  "hospi- 
tierte,"  i.  e.,  attended  lectures  without  matriculating.  This  is 
further  corroborated  by  our  failure  to  find  his  name  among  the 
matriculants  of  the  University  of  Basel. '^^'^  In  his  own  account  of 
the  journey  to  Basel  he  relates  an  incident  which  afTords  an  inter- 


*'  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222. 

a  Basel,  den   16.  Janiiar   1004. 

Herrn  Marion  D.  Learned,  Philadelphia,  bcehre  ich  mich  erffebcnst  mit- 
zuteilen,  dass  der  Name  Francisciis  Daniel  Pastorius  in  den  Jahren  1665-1676 
in  der  Matrikel  nicht  vorkommt. 

Hochachtungsvollst 

Dr.  C.  Ch.  Bernoulli,  Oberbibliothekar. 


226  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

esting  view  of  the  propaganda  made  by  Roman  Catholics  to  re- 
claim Protestants.  It  is  quite  likely  that  the  Prior  in  this  case 
was  aware  that  Pastorius'  family  had  apostosized  and  gone  over 
to  the  Lutheran  confession.     The  account  runs  as  follows : 

"Anno  1672.  niense  July  J  visited  also  the  University  of  Basil 
&  was  by  the  way  (at  Schletstadt)  strangely  attacked  by  the  Prior 
of  a  Monastery,  to  stay  &  to  read  over  the  Books  of  St.  Augustin  & 
these  Patres  that  might  convince  me,  &c."^^ 

The  incident  reminds  us  of  the  futile  effort  of  Pastorius' 
uncle,  Johann  Augustin  Pastorius,  and  "some  fiery  Jesuits"  to  re- 
claim his  father  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  in  Sommerhausen.*® 

4.  Again  in  Strassburg. 

In  August,  1672,  Pastorius  began  a  three  months'  course  in 
French  under  Monsieur  Dutrue.  September  loth  Professor 
Boeckler  died  in  the  midst  of  his  lectures  on  Lampadius.  Novem- 
ber 25th  Pastorius  left  Strassburg  with  Mercklein,  Tauber  and 
Flach  and  arrived  on  the  7th  of  December  in  Windsheim,  where  he 
remained  until  the  following-  April. 

5.  Second  Period  at  Altdorf. 

Having  spent  the  winter  1672- 1673  ^^  home,  Pastorius  re- 
turned April  13th,  to  the  University  of  Altdorf  to  continue  his 
studies.  He  reached  Altdorf  April  14th  and  took  lodgings  with 
Heldmann  and  meals  with  Dr.  Castner.  Here  he  matriculated 
a  second  time  under  the  Rector  Magnificus  Johann  Conrad 
Diirr.^°  In  the  Matriculation  Book  of  Altdorf  we  find  the  fol- 
lowing entry  for  the  year  1673  under  date  of  April  16: 

1673 
Aprilis    16.     Franciscus    Daniel    Pastorius,   Sommerhusa- 
Francus."^^ 


**  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222. 

"  Cf .  Chapter  I. 

°°  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  12. 

"  Cf.  Dcsignatio  Sindiosoru))i,  etc.,  for  1673. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  227 

This  time  he  was  matriculated  as  No.  11,311,  showing  that, 
since  his  first  matriculation  on  the  last  day  of  July,  1668,  five 
years  before,  395  students  had  matriculated  at  the  University  of 
Altdorf. 

Either  the  old  student  life  at  Altdorf  or  the  old  student  him- 
self, or  both,  had  changed,  as  Pastorius  was  no  longer  contented 
with  the  uneventful  life  of  the  little  university  town. 

6.  At  the  University  of  Jena. 

Accordingly  he  left  in  July  to  seek  more  congenial  associa- 
tions elsewhere.  July  2d  he  accompanied  Burgomaster  Biihler  to 
Niirnberg  and  continued  his  journey  thence,  reaching  Erfurt  July 
8th,  where  he  visited  the  "simple  nun,"  his  aunt  Rebecca,  and 
arrived  in  Jena  on  the  13th  of  July.  Here  he  took  lodgings  with 
Frau  Hofrat  Mansonin  and  meals  with  the  printer,  Bauhoffer. 
He  matriculated  under  the  Rector  Magnificus  Johann  Frisch- 
muth,  the  Orientalist. 

There  seems  to  be  a  discrepancy  between  Pastorius'  account 
of  his  going  to  Jena  (July,  1673),  and  the  official  record  of  the 
Matriculation  Book  of  the  University  of  Jena.  The  latter  gives 
the  date  of  his  matriculation  as  February  6,  1673,  as  the  follow- 
ing letter  from  the  Director  of  the  Library  at  Jena  informs  us : 

Universitats-Bibliothek  Jena. 
Herrn  Marion  D.  Learned,  Philadelphia,  beehre  ich  mich  mit/.u- 
theilen,   dass   in   der   Universitiits-Matrikel    folgender   Eintrag   sich 
vorfindet : 

Pastorius,  Franz  Daniel,  aus  Windsheim  i/Franken.  6  Febr 
1673. 

Der  Direktor: 

Dr.  Brandis. 
Jena  15/xii.  03 
Ausl.  No.  440 

In  Jena  Pastorius  continued  his  study  of  Jurisprudence 
under  Dr.  Linck  and  began  the  study  of  Italian.  He  has  left 
the  following  brief  summary  of  his  doings  at  this  time: 

"The  25th  of  November,  eodem  aho  [1672]  J  returned  to  Wins- 


228  Francis  Daniel  Pastorins 

heim  where  J  stayed  all  that  winter,  and  the  next  13th  of  April  1673 
J  went  again  to  Altdorff,  but  not  liking  the  place  for  some  reasons, 
left  it  the  2nd  of  July,  going  to  Nurnberg,  thence  to  Erford,  and 
so  on  to  Jena,  where  J  arrived  the  13th  of  the  aforesd  month  of  July 
&  continued  the  Study  of  the  Laws,  learning  moreover  of  Dr.  Carolo 
Caffa,  the  Jtalian  Tongue,  in  which  J  publickly  Disputed  the  i8th  of 
April,  1674.  upon  some  printed  Theses  inscrib'd  dalle  Leggi,  as  J  had 
done  before  mense  Januar.  sub  praesidio  Doctoris  Linckij  ad  lib.  3. 
Pandectarum. "'"' - 

In  his  "Additamenta"'"'^  he  furnishes  the  follov^ing  details, 
which  we  give  in  abstract : 

August  1st,  after  having  made  a  short  tour  to  Naumburg, 
he  began  lessons  in  fencing  under  Monsieur  Elart.  On  the  3d  of 
xA.ugust  he  began  the  study  of  Italian  under  Carlo  Caffa,  and  on 
the  7th  a  course  in  Chiromancy  (Chiromantik)  under  Hopping. 
In  November  he  entered  a  Collegium  in  Scotani  Excrc.  Juris  by 
Dr.  Heinrich  Linck.  In  January,  1674,  he  disputed  publicly  Ad. 
Lib.  3  II,  also  under  Linck.  March  ist  he  went  to  the  blind  M. 
Schmidt  for  both  lodging  and  meals.  April  i8th  he  disputed 
Dalle  Leggi  in  the  Italian  language,  as  we  have  seen  above.  May 
31st  he  took  a  trip  to  Gotha,  meeting  Cancellarius  Avenann  and 
others.  June  ist  he  began  courses  under  Dr.  Tillemann  Ad 
Schnohelium  ad  II  and  Fibigij  Processum  Jud. 

It  will  be  a  new  and  interesting  fact  to  many  that  a  student 
at  the  university  of  Jena  disputed  in  the  Italian  language,  and 
that  such  opportunities  were  afforded  for  the  study  of  Italian  at 
that  time  in  Jena.  The  fact  sheds  much  light  upon  the  literary 
conditions  of  Germany  at  the  time  of  the  vogue  of  Marinism  in 
the  Second  Silesian  School  of  Poets — Hofmann  von  Hofmanns- 
waldau,  Caspar  von  Lohenstein  and  their  disciples.  The  case  of 
Pastorius  was  then  not  an  isolated  one  to  be  explained  by  the 
fondness  of  his  father,  like  Goethe's  father,  for  things  Italian, 
but  must  rather  be  regarded  as  typical,  reflecting  the  interest  of 


Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222. 
'  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  12. 


Francis  Daniel  Pasiorius  229 

the  Jenensians  in  the  Itahan  language  and  literature  in  the  epoch 
of  the  Marinistic  movement  in  German  poetry. 

At  Jena  we  see  Pastorius  rapidly  approaching  the  close  of 
his  juristic  studies,  disputing  under  Dr.  Linck,  in  January,  1674, 
and,  as  it  appears,  repeating  the  same  disputation  in  Italian  under 
Dr.  Caffa  on  the  i8th  of  the  following  April. 

y.  At  Regcnsburg. 

An  important  stage  in  Pastorius'  studies,  after  leaving  Jena, 

was  his  sojourn  in  Regensburg,  where  he  had  an  opportunity  to 

study  the  practice  of  the  Imperial  Code,  as  the  Imperial  Diet  was 

convened  in  Regensburg  at  that  time.     His  own  account  of  the 

change  from  Jena  to  Regensburg  and  his  return  to  Altdorf  is  quite 

explicit : 

"Having  from  hence  [Jena]  viewed  Naumburg,  Gotha  and  other 
Towns  of  that  Countrey  J  travelled  unto  Regenspurg,  where  the 
Diet  of  the  Empire  then  was  kept,^^  in  order  to  be  the  fullier  in- 
structed in  Jure  publico,  whereof  J  formerly  was  taught  some  cer- 
tain principles  by  the  renowned  Dr.  Bockler  at  Strassburg.  So  there- 
fore J  lodged  the  greatest  part  with  Dr.  Volcker,  Embassadour  of 
Nurnberg  and  the  rest  of  the  Jmperial  Cities  of  Frankenland."^-'^ 

In  the  "Additamenta"  he  furnishes  the  following  facts  con- 
cerning his  stay  in  Regensburg : 

"Julv  3cl  left  Jena  and  August  4th  arrived  at  Nurnberg.  August 
loth  r'^-^-i-i^rl  Regensburg,  took  quarters  in  the  Green  Wreath  ('im 
griinen  Krantz')  and  went  with  a  number  of  Secretaries  to  a  widow 
for  meals  till  October  ist,  when  I  went  to  the  family  of  the  Niirn- 
berg  Ambassador  for  both  meals  and  lodging,  where  the  Ambassa- 
dor" and  his  wife  treated  me  very  kindly.  liere  I  continued  French 
with  Louys  Brialmont  for  six  months."^^ 


"The  word  "kept"  here  is  a  Germanism,  being  a  translation  of  the  Ger- 
man word  "gehaltcn."  That  the  "Reichstag"  (Imperial  Diet)  was  in  session 
IS  stated  in  the  following: 

"Nachdem  ich  nun  von  daraus  [Jena]  Naumburg,  Gotha  etc.  besehen, 
reisete  ich  31.  July,  nach  Regenspurg,  umb  auff  daselbstigem  Reichstag  Jura 
publica  desto  besser  zu  ergreiffen"  (cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  6). 

^^  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  222. 

^'  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  12.  The  original  is  in  German,  but  here  translated 
into  English. 


230  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

In  April  of  the  next  year  (1675),  after  a  sojourn  of  some 
eight  months,  Pastorius  left  Regensburg  for  Bayreut  and  Winds- 
heim,  meeting  his  father  and  stepmother  in  Bayreut,  as  the  fol- 
lowing account  informs  us : 

"April  16th  1675  left  Regensburg  by  stage,  arrived  the  17th  at 
Bayreut,  found  my  last  stepmother  [there]  and  attended  the  wed- 
ding-^' of  her  sister.  April  26  arrived  mith  my  father  and  afore- 
mentioned stepmother  at  Winsheim."^^ 

8.   Third  Period  at  Altdorf. 

After  spending  the  remainder  of  the  spring  and  summer  of 
1675  at  home  in  Windsheim,  Pastorius  went  the  following  Sep- 
tember for  the  third  time  to  the  University  of  Altdorf  to  finish  his 
study  of  Jurisprudence  and  take  his  doctorate  or  licentiate  di- 
ploma. He  gives  the  following  succinct  account  of  his  last  period 
at  Altdorf : 

"Sept.  27.  went  to  x\ltdorf,  had  meals  with  Dr.  Linck  and  lodg- 
ing with  Abr.  Klinger,  an   armorer    ("biichsenschiffter"). 

Nov.  loth  began  a  course  with  Dr.  Linck  on  Eckoltus  and  a 
"disputatorium  iiber  Exercitat  Ludwelli." 

1676  March  29th,  transferred  my  lodgings  to  the  Kornerhansa. 
May  31.  made  a  "circnlaren  Disputat"  under  Dr.  Linck.  July  20 
went  to  Niirnberg  because  of  sickness.  Aug.  22  to  Gnadenb[urg  ?], 
and  Sept.  26  returned  to  Niirnberg.  Oct.  26  appeared  before  the 
Dean  Dr.  Job.  Ant.  Geiger  and  the  other  Jurists,  also  Nov.  2nd  be- 
fore the  Procancellarius  Magnus  Fetzer,  after  which  the  two  exam- 
inations fallowed  the  7th  and  8th,  and  I  disputed  the  23d  de  rasura 
Docunicntonim  for  the  doctorate. "^^ 

It  will  naturally  seem  strange  that  Pastorius  on  the  eve  of 


"  More  specific  details  of  this  wedding  are  given  in  the  Genealogical 
Sketch : 

"Anno  1675 :  the  i6th  of  April  J  rode  the  post  to  Bayreut,  where  Anna 
Maria  Volckmann's  (the  eldest  Sister  of  my  present  Stepmother,)  was  cele- 
brating her  Marriage  with  [Georg]  Roth,  Lehcns-Sccrctary  of  that  Marquisate 
of  Brandenburg,  and  thence  in  a  Coach  with  my  parents  down  to  Winsheim" 
{Beehive,  p.  222). 

**Cf.  "Additamenta"  {Res  Propriac,  p.  12). 

"Cf.  "Additamenta"  {Res  Propnac,  p.  12).     The  original  is  in  German. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  231 

his  doctorate  at  Jena,  should  have  returned  to  the  University  of 
Altdorf,  which  he  had  left  in  disgust  two  years  before.  At  least 
two  explanations  may  be  found  for  this  return.  The  first  is  that 
Pastorius  left  Jena  for  the  opportunity  to  study  the  practice  of 
the  Imperial  Code  in  the  Diet  at  Regensburg.  The  second  that 
his  favorite  professor  at  Jena,  Dr.  Linck,  was  called  to  a  profes- 
sorship at  the  University  of  Altdorf  the  last  day  of  March,  1674, 
and  succeeded  the  renowned  Cregel  in  1675  ^s  Professor  of  Pan- 
dects.®°  This  was  doubtless  the  chief  reason  for  Pastorius'  return 
to  Altdorf,  even  though  he  may  have  cherished  a  patriotic  fond- 
ness for  his  first  choice,  the  "Nurnberg  University"  of  Altdorf, 
while  studying  at  other  universities.  This  is  corroborated  by 
the  fact  that  Pastorius  took  quarters  with  Dr.  Linck  and  finished 
his  studies  under  him  at  Altdorf. 

It  may  be  that  he  found  other  reasons,  during  his  study  of 
the  Jus  Publicum  at  Regensburg  and  his  associations  with  the 
Niirnberg  Ambassador,  for  returning  to  Altdorf. 

In  the  year  1676  we  find  the  following  entries  in  the  Matricu- 
lation Book  of  the  University  of  Altdorf : 

1676.  1677.     Johanne  Antonio  Geiger  V.  J.  D.  et  Inst.  Imper. 

Prof:  Publ :  primum  Decano,  Candidati  sequentes  nomina 

sua  in  banc  matriculam  retulerunt: 
D.  9.  9br.    1676.  236.    Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius,   Sommer- 

husa-Francus,  Disp :  De  Rasur^  Documentorum.  d.  23.  gbr : 

cod.  'jyy.  3. 

The  dissertation  or  inaugural  disputation,  as  it  was  then 
called,  was  published  by  the  university  printer  Heinrich  Maier  in 
Altdorf  in  1676  with  the  following  title: 

*"  Cf.  the  following  sketch  of  Linck's  career : 

Dn.  Henricus  Linck,  Sorbiga  Misn.  I.V.D.  Ex  Academia  Tenensi,  in  qua 
per  sexennium  privatim  docendo  luris  Studiosis  suam  exhibuit  fidem,  a 
Perstrenuis  ac  Nobilissimis  inclutae  Reipubl.  Noriberg.  Scholarchis,  Dominis 
suis  benignissimis,  ad  functioncm  vocatus  atque  ult.  die  Mart.  1674,  in  num- 
erurn  Dnn.  Professornum  cooptatus  est.  M.  April,  ejusdem  anni,  praemissa 
oratione  inaugurali,  ad  Institutionum,  subscquenti  vero  anno  1675.  post  obitum. 
Dn.  Cregelii,  ad  Pandectarum  Professionem  pro  virili  exornandam  cum  Deo 
se  contulit.  Obiit  Ao.  1696.  (Wills,  Geschichte  und  Beschreibung,  pp. 
334-335-) 


232  Francis  Daniel  Pastotius 

Disputatio  Inauguralis  |  De  |  Rasura  Docu  |  mcntorum,  |  Qvam, 
I  Divina  suffragante  Gratia,  |  Auctoritatc  |  Magnifici  |  JCtorum 
Ordinis  |  in  Incluto  Noribergcnsiuni  Atheiueo,  |  pro  |  Licentia  | 
Summos  in  Utroqve  Jure  Honores  ac  |  Privilegia  Doctoralia, 
more  Ma  jorum,  |  rite  capessendi,  |  Publico  Eruditorum  Examini 
I  sistit  I  P>anciscus  Daniel  Pastorius,  |  Windtshcimensis.  |  D. 
22,.  Novembr.  A.  ab  incarnatione  J.  C.  |  CI  DI  DC  Lxxvi.  |  Alt- 
dorffl,  I  Literis  Henrici  Maieri,  Univ.  Typogr. 

The  first  twenty-one  pages  are  devoted  to  the  dissertation 
proper  and  the  remaining  three  pages  to  the  "Corollaria,"  or 
theses,  twelve  in  number,  and  the  poetic  close  of  twenty-two  Latin 
verses.  The  Corollaria  are  so  arranged  as  to  form  the  following 
acrostics  with  the  initial  of  each  corollary: 

M.  A.  P.  (I,  II,  III)  =  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  (the 
father). 

D.  E.  V.  (IV,  V,  VI)  ==  Dorothea  Esther  Volckmanns  (the 
stepmother). 

F.  D.  P.  (VII,  VIII,  IX)  =  Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius 
(the  author). 

J.  S.  P.  (X,  XI,  XII)  =  Johannes  Samuel  Pastorius  (the 
brother).*'^ 

Corollaria. 
I 

Maritus  in  casum  defunctce  uxoris  alteri  matrimoniuni  absqve 
infamicC  macula  neqvit  promittere ;  licet  illius  mortem  lugere  Legibus 
baud  obstringatur. 

II 

Adolescens,  qvi  invitae  Virgini  osculum  infigit,  actione  injuri- 
arum  non  tenetur ;  Imo  eum  teneri  responsum  est  in  Scabinatu  Lepsi- 
ens.     Anno  1624. 

Ill 

Pactum,  ut  uxor  imperio  &  dominatione  gaudeat,  nuptiarum 
contractui  adjectum  Naturse  rcfragatur  atqve  contra  bonos  mores  est. 


"  In  Pastorius'  copy  of  the  Disputatio,  now  in  the  possession  of  Ex-Gov- 
ernor S.  W.  Pennypacker,  the  key  of  the  acrostic  is  given  on  the  margin  in 
Pastorius'  own  hand. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  233 

IV 

Delictum  occulte  nonnumqvam  augetur,  nonnumqvam  minuitur, 
juxta  hoc  Apuleji:  Qvod  nemo  iiovit,  pene  non  fit. 

V 

Etiam  citra  confessionem  reum  (V.  Et.)  de  crimine  testibus 
convictu  capite  posse  puniri  nullus  dubito. 

VI 

Villi  a  convivatore  convivis  in  convivio  traditi  dominium  ad  ipsos 
eqvidem  tratransit,  sed  revocabiliter. 

VII 
Frater  meus  meam  Sororem,  cum  ejus  Soror  non  sit,  legitime 
in  matrimonium  sibi  adsciscit. 

IIX 
Dari  homines,  qvi  patrem  non  habent,  in  proclivi  est. 

IX 

Proffessores,  Advocati,  Doctores  Literative  alii  fabros,  vietores 
&  hujusmodi  streperse  artis  opifices,  si  secundum  illorum  ?edes  do- 
mos  conducere  aut  mercari  velint,  officio  Judicis  non  imqve  repellunt. 

X 

Tnstinanus  Imperator  Christianissimus,  uti  vocatur  in  1.  8.  c.  de 
Sum.  Trinit.  poenam  adulterii  in  feminis  Nov.  134  c.  10.  minus  con- 
venienter  mutavit. 

XI 

Servos  quosdam  esse  natura,  cum  Aristotele  &  servitutem  esse 
contra  naturam  inductam  cum  JCtis  adserere,  non  implicat  contra- 
dictionem. 

XII 

Propter  osculum  uxori  Senioris  libatum  Vasallus  fendo  potest 
privari. 

RAsuram  loqueris  scienter:  Unde  ars 
Radendi  hsecce  TIBI  venit?    profare. 
Tonsor  non  es,  &  ars  novaculam  non 
Tractandi  est  TIBI,  nee  puto  capillos 
Posthac  radcrc  velle  filiis  TE 
Papse;  Tum  neque  habes  caput  gerisve 
Rasum,  sicut  adulter  olim  habebat, 
Ac  omnis  scelexatus  &  nefandus ; 
Rasurum  loqueris  tamen  bene  sic. 


234  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Radendi  ars  TIBI  qtiseso  habetur  ista 
Unde?  Nempe,  TIBI  rei  capilli 
Nil  rasura  facit,  capit  vel  ipse 
Hanc  Mopsus:  DOCUMENTI  amas  docere 
RASURAM.     Plato  nunc  eat,  docendo, 
Et  Rasam  Tabulam  esse  nunc  Tuammet 
Mentem,  Discipulosque  dicat  ejus 
Nudam!    Nam  neque  rasa  nudavc  est  mens, 
Pastori,  Tua:  Plena  quidpe  Juris 
Doctrina :  Docuincnta  magna  praesto: 
Quid  Lector  dubitas?   Docent  Honorcs 
Novi,  quos  Themis  Ipsa  sancta  confert. 
Voti  haec  sint  documenta  vera  nostri 

Sic  Nobil.  &  Clarissimi  Dn.  Candidati, 
Honoribus  Novis  iisque  plane  summis  & 
egregiis,  vera  &  re  adplaudendo,  adsurgebant, 
Ejusdem  Syssiti  Linckiani. 


(To  be  Continued.) 


KONVENTION  DES  DEUTSCH-AMERIKANISCHEN 
CENTRAL-VEREINS  VON   PENNSYLVANIEN. 

Concordia  Hall,  Wilkes-Barre,  8.  Juni   1907, 
11.30    Uhr   Vorni. 

Erste  Sitsung. 
C.  J.  Hexamer,  Prasident.     A.  Timm,  Sekretar. 
Aufgerufen,  spricht 

Friedrich  Baare,  Hazleton,  Luzerne  Co. 

Herr  Prasident,  meine  Herren! 

Vielen  Dank  fiir  die  mir  ertheilte,  herzliche  Begriissung-. 
Ich  bin  kein  Redner,  und  im  Sprechen  vor  Versammliingen 
langst  aus  der  Uebung.  In  meinen  jtingen  Jaliren  habe  ich  dazu 
hin  und  wieder  Veranlassung  gehabt  und  erfahren,  dass  der 
kurze  Spruch,  der  den  Nagel  auf  den  Kopf  trifft,  der  wirksamste 
ist.  Im  Anblick  dieser  Versammlung,  in  der  die  Vollkraft  edlen 
deutschen  Strebens  in  der  Elite  der  heutigen  Generation  eines 
leitenden  amerikanischen  Staates  sich  darbietet,  sagt  mir  die 
Riickschau  auf  die  Bliithezeit  jener  Generation,  unter  der  ich 
dieses  Land  betrat,  dass  unser  Streben  und  Handeln  nicht  um- 
sonst  gewesen  ist.  Wir  traten  hier  ein,  willkommen  geheissen  in 
dem  gastlichen  Schoose  eines  starken,  freien  Volkes,  das,  ideale 
Ziele  vor  Augen,  sich  selber  wohl  eingestand,  dass  es  aus  dem 
Zustande  einer  Halbzivilisation  noch  nicht  heraus  war.  Massen 
von  Unkultur  mit  dem  Anfluge  der  Diirftigkeit,  Fiille  von 
Geisteskraft,  die  nach  Entwicklung  rang,  starrte  uns  entgegen, 
und  mit  dem  Thatendrange  jener  epochemachenden  Periode 
gingen  wir  riistig  an's  Werk.  Das  Samenkorn  von  unserer 
Hand  ausgestreut,  es  ging  auf  und  fruchtete  reichlich ;  der 
Funke,  dem  Geiste  jener  Zeit  entsprungen,  er  hat  geziindet,  cr 
ward  zur  Flamme ;  sie  ziingelt  nicht,  sie  verheert  nicht,  sie 
lodert ! 

(235) 


236  Ko7ivention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien 

Gestatten  Sic  mir,  beispielsweise  —  es  geht  eben  nicht  an- 
ders,  das  Ganze  zu  illustriren  an  einem  nachstliegenden  Bilde,  in 
engerem  Rahmen  gefasst,  iind  aus  meinem  eigenen  Kreise  heraus 
aiich  von  mir  selber  zn  sprechen.  Als  ich  vor  55  Jahren  nach 
langer  Segelfahrt  in  dem  Ha  fen  von  New  York  angelangte,  hot 
der  Backsteinklumpen,  mit  dem  Strassendreck  bis  an  die  Knie, 
beim  Pier  No.  4  North  River  keinen  sehr  erbaulichen  Anblick, 
und  das  Auge  belebte  sich  hoffnungsvoll,  als  man  nach  dem  New- 
Jersey  Ufer  hinwies,  wo  die  Umrisse  zweier  statUicher,  sauberer 
Gebaiide  schlossartig  hervortraten  und  man  mir  sagte :  Das  ist 
Hoboken,  da  wirst  dn  wohnen.  Dort  angekommen,  stellten  die 
Schlosser  sich  heraus  als  an  einer  Langsstrasse,  von  einer  Quer- 
strasse  zur  andern,  in  einer  Flucht  hingestreckte,  kasernenartige 
Gebaude.  drei  Stock  oberhalb  und  einer  unterhalb  der  Erdflache, 
mit  flachem  Dache,  aus  Ziegelstein  mit  Kalkiiberwurf  gebaut, 
braun  angestrichen,  Blocks  genannt.  Durch  innere  Scheidewande 
in  Abtheilungen  von  je  25  Fuss  getrennt,  bildete  eine  jede  von 
diesen  mit  gesondertem  Eingange,  aufgetreppt,  ein  Wohnhaus 
mit  der  fiir  alle  gleichen  Zimmer-Eintheilung,  Gypsbewurf  der 
Zimmer-  und  Hausgangswande,  weissgetiincht.  Zur  Heizung 
offene  Kamine  mit  Gerath-Feuerung  ohne  Oefen,  in  der  Kiiche 
eingemauerter  Herd,  Wasserleitung,  heiss  und  kalt,  mit  Bade- 
zimmer  und  Kloset,  Beleuchtung  durch  sogenanntes  Burning 
Fluid.  Kerosene  noch  unbekannt.  Solches  hiess  man:  A  house 
with  all  the  modern  improvements.  Diese  Blocks  fiihrten  den 
Namen :  Terrace.  Es  waren  ihrer  vier,  Eigenthum  der  Hoboken 
Land  and  Improvement  Co.,  Joh.  H.  Stevens,  Prasident,  die  sie 
erbaut  hatte  zur  Schablone  fiir  den  kiinftigen  Ausbau  der  unter 
vorgeschriebenen  Normalbedingungen  zu  errichtenden  Stadt. 
Was  war  der  Styl  ?  In  England  war  er  mir  nicht  vorgekommen. 
Er  erinnerte  an  Amsterdam  —  ,,gemischter  Baustyl"  fiel  mir 
ein  aus  Fenimore  Cooper.  Wie  sah's  denn  eigentlich  hier  rund 
herum  aus?  Der  Stadtbezirk,  vormals  Hudsoninsel,  lagerte  im 
Osten,  durch  Abdammung  gen  Norden  vom  Strome  getrennt, 


Konvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien  237 

der  Lc'inge  nach  an  diesem,  mit  Stadt  iind  Staat  New  York  am 
jenseitigen  Ufer.  Von  dcm  diesseitigen  landeinwarts,  die  Weite 
von  fiinf,  auf  die  Strecke  von  vier  Blocks  mit  Hausern  bebaute 
Langsstrassen  entfernt,  war  Snmpf,  bodenloser  Siimpf,  bis  ziim 
Rande  des  nach  Siiden  auslaufenden  Hohenznges,  dessen  Riicken, 
bedeckt  mit  Wakl,  nur  an  einer,  der  mittleren  Stelle,  eine  kleine 
Gruppe  Holzhaiiser  zeigte.  Die  amerikanische  Wiklniss  —  man 
brauchte  nicht  weit  danach  zii  lanfen.  Gleich  hier  in  Jersey  fing 
sie  an. 

Hoboken  —  der  Name  war  in  New  York  verpont.  Kein 
New  Yorker  wollte  zngeben,  jemals  dort  gewesen  zn  sein.  New 
Jersey  hiess :  „Ont  of  the  United  States."  Sibilla's  Cave,  die 
Felsengrotte  am  Hndson-Strande  mit  dem  kiihlen  Quell  dem 
Passirenden  zur  Labe,  das  war  der  Ort,  wo  junge  Madchen,  im 
Nachen  von  New  York  entfiihrt,  umgebracht  wurden.  Die 
Elisian  Fields,  der  Hain  mit  dem  Yacht  Club  drin,  das  war  das 
verrufene  Rendez-vous  der  Duellanten.  Dort  ging  der  Geist  von 
General  Hamilton  um,  den  Aaron  Burr  im  Zweikampf  erschos- 
sep.  Der  Loafer,  eine  Schreckfigur,  vor  der  war  am  hellen 
lichten  Tage  kein  Mensch  sicher.  Doch  der  Irlander  gab  nichts 
um  den  Schnack.  Zehntausende  neuer  Ankommlinge  von  der 
,,grunen  Insel"  in  den  buntesten  Farben  aufgeputzt.  fiihrten  all- 
sonntaglich  die  beladenen  Ferry  Boats  heriiber.  Im  Schatten 
gelagert,  genossen  sie  hier  ungestort  ihr  Pic-Nic.  Auch  der 
Deutsche  kam  heriiber  in  Schaaren,  korbbeladen,  mit  Kind  und 
Kegel,  sich  iiber  die  Anhohen  zerstreuend  auf  der  Suche  nach 
einer  guten,  billigen   Heimstiitte. 

Hoboken  gait  fiir  ungesund ;  ein  Fieberloch,  nicht  gemacht 
fiir  Anglo-Amerikaner  darin  zu  wohnen,  kaum  gut  genug  fiir 
Irlander  mit  ihren  Pigs,  hochstens  noch  fiir  Dutchmen.  —  Wie 
sah  die  Stadtbevolkerung  aus?  Die  angloamerikanische  Miin- 
nerwelt,  der  Kleidung  und  den  Manieren  nach,  schofel.  Es  war, 
als  sei  die  Dandy-Manie  unter  George  IV.  nunmehr  in's  krasse 
Gegentheil  umgeschlagen,  so  schabig,  vertrackt  und  ungeschlacht 


238  Konvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien 

wie  nur  moglich  zu  erscheinen.  Fiir  unsere  Charakterfigur  des 
Uncle  Sam:  Blauer  Schwalbenschwanz  mit  Messingknopfen, 
Nankinhose,  zerrissene  Lackschuhe  und  Cylinderhut  schief  im 
Nacken,  lief  das  Prototyp  in  alien  Strassen,  in  den  Hotels,  in  den 
Stores ;  den  verbogenen  Seidencylinder  bestandig  auf  dem  Kopfe. 
Das  Aermelloch  des  Eckenstehers  war  bezeichnend  fiir  den 
Ward-Politiker,  den  Gambler  in  Stocks  und  den  Lobbyisten  fiir 
Jobs.  Bei  dem  Manne  von  guter  Haltung  und  Kleidung  durfte 
man  sicher  sein :  Er  war  ein  Deutscher.  —  Und  die  Sprache,  die 
man  horte?  Mit  Schul-Englisch  vertrug  sie  sich  nicht.  Kein 
Wort  verstand  ich,  wie  Yes  und  No,  obgleich  ich  mit  Englandern 
in  der  Heimath  fliessend  konversirte.  Irish,  sagte  man  mir,  ware 
es.  Englisch  ware  nur  fiir  die  Kirchen  und  das  Court  House. 
Deutsch  jedoch  kursirte  frei  in  alien  Dialekten.  Bierhauser  aber 
gab  es  erst  noch  sehr  wenig.  Engel  &  Wolf  in  Philadelphia  gait 
als  erste  Quelle.  Bei  meinem  Schwager  und  prospektiven  Part- 
ner, Julius  G.  Garelly,  in  No.  i  Washington  Terrace  temporar 
installirt,  begegnete  mir  als  erster  Deutscher  ein  Arzt.  Er  hiess. 
wie  unser  verehrter  Herr  Prasident,  Dr.  Hexamer.  Des  letz- 
teren  Aehnlichkeit  mit  ihm  in  Statur,  Haltung,  Gesichtsziigen 
und  Wohllaut  des  Organs  frappirte  mich  heute.  Er  war  mir  die 
frohe  Wiedererscheinung  des  Oheims  in  dem  Neffen.  Kiirzlich 
verheiratet,  war  Jener  eben  im  Begriff,  seine  in  Hoboken  be- 
schrankte  Praxis  mit  einer  ausgedehnteren  in  New  York  zu 
wechseln,  und  hot  mir  seine  am  andern  Ende  des  Blocks  gelegene, 
hiibsch  moblirte  Wohr.ung  zur  Uebernahme  an.  Ich  schlug  ein, 
bezog  sie  sofort.  Er  siedelte  iiber  nach  Amity  Street,  wir  wurden 
und  blieben  Freunde.  Sein  Andenken  erfrischt  sich  mir  hier 
angesichts  seines  Neffen. 

Der  zweite  Deutsche,  der  sich  mir,  und  zwar  als  Geschafts- 
freund,  naherte  war  wiederum  ein  Plexamer,  Wilhelm  hiess  er, 
Bruder  des  Arztes,  Architekt  und  Zivil-Ingenieur,  beide  Briider, 
und  noch  ein  dritter  und  vierter,  durch  die  Stiirme  von  Achtund- 
vierzig  und  den  badischen  Auf  stand  an  diese  Gestade  geworfen. 


Konvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien  239 

Eines  Sonntagmorgens,  dem  dritten  in  November,  trat  er  in 
Wasserstiefeln  bei  uns  ein,  Garelly  zu  einem  Streifzug  zu  Land- 
verbesserungszwecken  abzuholen.  Kostumirt  wie  Beide,  und  mit 
Handbeil  versehen,  machte  ich  mit.  Von  Meadowstreet  ab 
kreuzten  wir  iiber  einen  auf  eingerammten  Pfahlen  rnhenden 
Brettersteg  den  Sumpf,  erklommen  die  Hiigelwand  und  befanden 
uns  auf  der  Landstrasse  von  Bergen  Court  House,  Pallisade 
Avenue  genannt.  Dort  am  jenseitigen  Waklrande  stand  einsam 
und  alleine  die  neu  und  elegant  gebaute  Hiitte  eines  Landagenten 
mit  der  Aufschrift:  Luxton  Landoffice.  Von  Mister  Luxton 
orientirt,  schlugen  wir  uns  durch  die  Biische  nach  unserem  Ziele, 
einer  verlassenen  Farm  am  jenseitigen  Hiigelrande,  der  Weaver- 
town  Turnpike.  Hier  wurde  geplant  fiir  den  Ankauf  eines  zu 
Bauzwecken  abgesteckten  Grundstiicks  mit  dem  Beschluss,  an- 
derntags  mit  den  Eignern  in  Unterhandlung  zu  treten,  was  auch 
geschah.  Von  da  ging's  nordlich  die  Weavertown  Road  zu  Ende 
nach  Union  Hill,  der  schon  bereits  von  meinen  Fiihrern  kauflich 
erworbenen  und  von  Hexamer  in  Stadtplan  ausgelegten  Farm. 
An  der  von  Hoboken  kommenden  Hackensack  Plankroad,  von 
der  Weavertown-  bis  zur  Weehavvken  Turnpike  nordlich  gelegen, 
hatte  sie  dem  Italiener  Cantalo  gehort,  der  darauf  Seidenbau  und 
Entenzucht  betrieben  und  sie  1844  an  Enoch  Durar  in  Philadel- 
phia verkauft  hatte.  Von  diesem  war  sie  6  Jahre  darauf  fiir  die 
von  Garelly  als  Prasident  und  Hexamer  als  Sekretar  organisirte 
und  als  die  Hudson  County  Real  Estate  Co.  inkorporirte,  deut- 
sche  Aktiengesellschaft  zum  Preise  von  55,000  Dollars  auf  Ab- 
zahlungsraten  gekauft.  Ertheilung  des  Besitztitels  sollte  bei  Ent- 
richtung  der  letzten  Rate,  und  nicht  friiher,  erfolgen.  Die  Stadt- 
lots  in  der  gleichformigen  Grosse  von  25  x  100  Fuss,  waren 
durch  je  eine  mit  der  Nummer  des  Lots  versehene  Aktie  repra- 
sentirt,  deren  Besitz  durch  Anzahlung  von  3  Dollars  und  das 
Zahlungsversprechen  von  monatlich  3  Dollars  bis  zur  Schulden- 
tilgung  erworben  wurde,  und  den  Inhaber  zur  Besitznahme  des 
Lot  berechtigte.  Der  Vollpreis  des  Lot  kalkulirte  sich  bei  plan- 
gemasser  Abwickelung  des  ganzen  Geschafts  auf  ca.  30  Dollars. 


240  Konventioyi  dcs  Deutsch-Am.  Ceiitral-  ]/er.  von  Pennsylvanien 

Ich  fand  die  Strassen  schon  aiisgelegt,  die  Gradirung  und 
Nivellirung  noch  im  Gange,  einige  neue  Holzgebaude  neben  den 
alten  Cantalo  Farmhaiisern  zii  Wohn-  und  Store-Zwecken  schon 
errichtet,  prominent  unter  ihnen  eine  Lagerbierbrauerei  in  vollem 
Schwnnge,  gedriingt  voll  von  Sonntagsgasten.  Mit  dem  Stadt- 
plane  in  der  Hand  umringten  sie  Hexamer,  ihnen  ihre  Lots  finden 
zn  helfen.  Er  war  der  meistgesuchte  und  bestgeplagte  Mann. 
Andern  Morgens  besuchte  ich  ihn  in  Hoboken  in  seiner  Sur- 
veyors-Office in  Washington  Street.  Emsig  iiber'm  Reissbrett 
arbeiteten  seine  Zeichner  nnter  larmenden  Auftraggebern,  die 
ein  Jeder  zuerst  bedient  sein  wollten.  Fragen  wnrden  gestellt, 
oft  die  allerdummsten,  und  an  Schekworten  fehlte  es  auch  nicht. 
Hexamer,  mit  nie  fehlender  Schlagfertigkeit,  hatte  ein  freund- 
hches  Wort  und  den  richtigen  Bescheid  fiir  Alle,  hier  eine  Aus- 
kunft  gebend,  dort  eine  Anordnung  trefifend,  oder  einen  neuen 
Entwurf  aus  dem  Stegreif  entwickehid.  Es  war,  als  drangten 
10  Gegenstande  auf  einmal  auf  ihn  ein,  vmd  er  bemeisterte  sie 
alle.  Kaum  angedeutet,  standen  die  Cottages,  die  Wohnhauser, 
die  Stores  mit  Veranden,  Friesen  und  Schnorkeln  schon  auf  dem 
Papier,  mit  Kosteniiberschlag  und  Spezifikation  fix  und  fertig. 
So  bedeckte  sich  jener  Hiigel  im  Umsehen  mit  einem  amerika- 
nisch-dentschen  Stadtbilde  nach  Hexamer's  einheitlicher  Idee, 
und  wurde  diese  maassgebend  fiir  die  Gebilde  des  ganzen  County, 
dessen  Surveyor  er  wurde.  Als  City  Surveyor  besorgte  er  die 
Pflasterung,  die  Drainage.  Das  County  iiberzog  er  mit  einer 
Pferdebahn.  Am  ostlichsten  Ende  der  Stadt,  der  6.  Strasse, 
zwischen  Washington  und  Bloomfield  Streets  errichtete  er  1853 
den  ersten  sclb.standigen  Komplex  von  acht  Wohnhausern  aus 
Backstein  nach  den  neuesten  Erfordernissen,  Gaslicht  einbegrif- 
fen,   in    seinem   Styl. 

Das  Jahr  1853,  das  erste,  seit  langer  Whig-Periode,  unter 
demokratischer  Administration,  war  ein  flottes.  Alle  Ziigel 
flogen  frei.  Jcde  Hand  war  beschaftigt;  Verdienst  war  gut. 
Sorglos  blickte  man  in  die  Zukunft  und  rechnete  nach  dem  Maas- 


Konvention  des  Deidsch-Am.  Central-  Vef.  von  Pennsylvanien   241 

stabe  des  Aiigenblicks  niir  mit  clem  Fortschritt.  Der  folgende 
Sommer  schon  brachte  die  Stocknng.  Ein  Riikschlag  traf  das 
Land,  eine  Geldklemme  trat  ein,  die  erste,  die  unsere  ncue  Ein- 
wanderung  erlebte,  die  als  die  Drygoods  Crisis  von  1854  in  den 
Annalen  vermerkte.  Ein  Stillstand  befiel  das  Bauwesen,  die 
neuen  Hauser  standen  leer  und  blieben  es  fiir  lange.  Freiind 
Hexamer  litt  schwer  unter  dem  Drucke.  Der  letzte  ZahUings- 
termin  fiir  Union  Hill  war  fallig,  doch  die  Aktien-Einzahlungen 
kamen  nicht  mehr.  Meine  Firma,  stark  betheiligt,  hatte  in  die 
Bresche  zu  treten.  Mit  Hexamer  als  Begleiter  holte  ich  mir  von 
Enoch  Durar  in  Philadelphia  gegen  Zahlung  der  letzten  10  Pro- 
zent  den  Warrantee  Deed  fiir  Union  Hill,  ausgestellt  auf  die 
Hudson  County  Real  Estate  Co.,  und  behandigte  ihn  derem  Sek- 
retar,  Wm.  Hexamer.  Jetzt  erfolgte  freie  Deed-Ausgabe  seitens 
der  Company  an  die  Aktioniire,  und  das  Bauwesen  nahm  belebten 
Fortgang,  nicht  aber  die  Aktienzahlung.  Ein  jeder  Aktionar 
hatte  ja  nun  sein  Recht.  Die  Pflicht  —  war  doch  ganz  was 
anderes. 

Das  Jahr  darauf  iiberraschte  mich  die  Kunde,  Flriuser  und 
Lots  einer  Anzahl  von  Aktionaren  seien  gerichtlich  mit  Beschlag 
belegt  und  zum  Sheriffs-Verkauf  in  Zeitungen  angekiindigt. 
Noten  der  H.  C.  R.  E.  Co.,  von  Wm.  Hexamer,  Sekretar,  aus- 
gegeben,  waren  die  Grundlage  zur  Exekution  stehenden,  ge- 
richtlichen  Urtheils,  und  ganz  Union  Hill  mit  Allcm  drauf  und 
dran,  war  dafiir  in  Anspruch  genommen.  Die  Aktionare  tobten. 
Sie  schwuren  Hexamer  Tod  und  Teufel.  Der  District  Attorney 
von  Hudson  County  war  mein  erprobter  Freund,  ein  ebenso  tiich- 
tiger,  junger  Advokat  in  Jersey  City  mein  erprobter  Gegncr. 
Sie  beide  belehrten  mich  bald,  Union  Hill,  durch  Verschulden 
seiner  Aktionare,  stehe  in  drohender  Gefahr,  von  Sharpers  auf- 
gerieben  zu  werden.  Es  gebiihrte  ihnen  eigentlich  eine  heilsame 
Lektion.  In  ihren  sonderbaren  Begriffen  von  einem  freien 
Lande  hielten  diese  Ankommlinge  Alles  fiir  erlaubt,  und  hessen 
ihrer  Willkiihr  freien  Lauf.     Aber  sie  seien  doch  ihre  Klienten, 


242  Konvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien 

deren  Unkcnntniss  gegen  Ansbeutnnq;  zu  schiitzen  die  Vernunft 
ihnen  gebiete.  Dies  konne  aber  niir  geschehen,  wenn  sie  Ver- 
nunft annahmen  unter  sich  selbst.     Die  Lage  war  diese : 

In  New  Jersey  besteht  ein  Gesetz  gegen  Lotterie.  Unter 
diesem  entschied  vor  einem  Jahre  die  Supreme  Court  einen  Fall, 
und  die  Court  of  Errors  and  Appeals  bestatigte  ihn  letzten  Marz 
mit  dem  Urtheil,  dass  die  Auslegung  eines  Stiick  Landes  in 
Stadtparcellen  gleicher  Grosse  und  deren  Vertheilung  an  Kaufer 
zu  dem  gleichen  Preise  fiir  jede  derselben  mittels  Ziehung  von 
Loosen  eine  Lotterie  sei.  Alle  unter  solcher  Theilung  gegebenen 
und  empfangenen  Deeds  seien  ungiiltig,  eine  Nullitat. 

Die  Vertheilung  von  Union  Hill  hatte  an  einem  Weihnachts- 
morgen  durch  solche  Ziehung  ganz  offenkundig  stattgefunden, 
die  darauf  von  der  H.  C.  R.  E.  Co.  an  ihre  Aktionare  ausgege- 
benen  Deeds  galten  nichts,  und  die  Company  selbst  war  Besitzer 
des  Ganzen  nach  wie  vor.  Fiir  die  Deckung  der  erlangten  Ur- 
theile  und  der  iibrigen,  schwebenden  Schuld  an  verschiedene 
Contrahenten  war  ganz  Union  Hill  haftbar.  Die  ganze  Last  von 
einer  Vertrauensperson  unter  der  Hand  ankaufen,  von  dieser  ge- 
richtlich  und  durch  den  Sheriff  eintreiben,  und  durch  Letzteren 
an  die  Aktieninhaber  gegcn  Zahlung  des  Schuldantheils  mittels 
Deed  iibertragen  zu  lassen,  war  durch  die  Nothwendigkeit  ge- 
boten.  Die  Aktionare,  in  Extra-Generalversammlung  zu  dieser 
Lleberzeugung  gelangt,  drangten  nach  Vollziehung,  zu  der, 
nolens  volcns,  ich  mich  hergeben  musste.  Hexamer  wurde  natiir- 
lich,  wie  seine  Mitbeamten,  exonerirt.  Gedeckt  durch  zwei  von 
mir  gewahlte  Grundbesitzer  als  Beigeordnete,  gelang  mir  die 
Sache,  miihsam  zwar  und  langwierig,  doch  ohne  Hinderniss. 
Auf  Weihnachtsmorgen  1857  ward  auf  mein  alleiniges  Gebot 
von  $6.25  (sechs  und  ein  Viertel  Dollar),  der  Umlagebetrag  pro 
Lot  inclusive  Kosten,  ganz  Union  Hill,  Lot  fiir  Lot,  vom  Sheriff 
mir  zugeschlagen,  und  dieser  ertheilte  seine  Deeds,  ausgestellt 
auf  die  Namen  der  von  ihm  genannten  Personen.  Dies  gab  der 
Griindung  von  Union  Hill,  der  jetzigen  Seidenfabrikstadt  Town 


Konvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Cenhal-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien  243 

of  Union,  ihren  sicheren  Halt,  tmd  cler  Name  des  Mannes,  dem 
vor  Allen  die  Ehre  gebiihrt  als  ihr  Griinder,  ist  William  Hexa- 
mer. 

In  Hoboken,  unserem  Wohnorte,  ward  inzwischen  aiich  der 
deutschen  Einwohnerschaft  das  Bediirfniss  nach  einer  gemein- 
samen  Schulanstalt  rege.  Der  Wiinsch,  die  zahlreichen  kleinen 
Privatschulen  unter  einen  Hort  zii  vereinigen,  blieb  aus  Riick- 
sicht  aiif  den  verdienten  Inhaber  der  vornehmlichsten  unter  ihnen 
unausgesprochen.  Als  aber  dieser  seine  eigene  Griindung  preis- 
gab  und  sie  unter  englische  Leitung  fiel,  fand  der  Gedanke  sofort 
Ausdruck.  In  1858  berief  der  Vorstand  der  Concordia,  eines 
Gesangvereins  gemischten  Chors,  eine  Versammlung,  die  sich 
alsbald  unter  dem  Titel  „Akademischer  Verein"  zu  einer  Gesell- 
schaft  zu  Errichtung  und  Unterhaltung  einer  dem  Ziele  einer 
Realschule  mit  Elementar-  und  oberen  Klassen  entsprechenden. 
deutschen  Lehranstalt  formirte.  Der  Auftrag  des  Entwurfs  einer 
Konstitution  ward  mir  zutheil,  und  ich  entledigte  mich  dessen 
mit  Hinzuziehung  eines  Komitees  von  drei  Fachmannern  an  dem 
nachsten  Samstagabende.  In  der  Niederschrift  von  meiner  Hand 
ward  er  abgedruckt,  und  vor  der  nachsten  Sitzung  unter  die  Mit- 
glieder  vertheilt.  Mein  Exemplar  bewahrte  ich  auf  und  brachte 
es  mit  fiir  unsern  Herrn  Prasidenten.  Mit  Ihrer  giitigen  Er- 
laubniss?  Hier  ist  es,  die  nach  Diskussion  erfolgte  Annahme  in 
Letterndruck  daneben.  Das  erforderliche  Kapital  hatte  auf  Aus- 
gabe  von  Aktien  zu  $10  zu  beruhen,  dcren  Inhaber,  ohne  Riick- 
sicht  auf  deren  Anzahl  in  seinem  Besitze,  zu  einer  Virilstimme 
nur,  und  nur  dann  berechtigt  war,  wenn  er  die  Mitgliedschaft  des 
Akademischen  Vereins  erlangt  hatte.  Die  Ziehungen  batten 
in  der  ersten  Woche  den  Betrag  von  $3000  erreicht,  wonach  der 
Beschluss  gefasst  und  ausgefiihrt  wurde,  zwei  giinstig  gelegene 
Baulots  zu  bestmoglichen  Bedingungen  zu  erwerben,  und  die 
Konkurrenz  fiir  den  Bauplan  und  Voranschlag  fiir  ein  sieben- 
klassiges  Schulhaus  mit  Aula  auszuschreiben.  Der  Preis  ward 
Wm.  Hexamer  zuerkannt,  und  dieser  mit  der  Auffiihrung  des 


244  I'^onvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Ce)itral-  Ver.  von  Peyinsylvanien 

Baues  bcauftragt,  der,  sowcit  wie  bcstimmt,  im  Friihjahr  1861 
vollendet  iibergeben  wurde.  Das  Lehrerkollegitim  mit  dem  Di- 
rektor  an  dcr  Spitzc  war  angestellt,  der  Tag  der  Einweihung 
war  festgesetzt.  Da  traf  ich  eines  Morgens  im  Hanse  eines 
Freimdes  in  Washington  Street  den  Dirigenten  der  Concordia, 
Herrn  F.  A.  Sorge,  den  Tochtern,  Sopran  und  Alt,  Gesangunter- 
richt  ertheilend.  ,,Haben  Sic  schon  ein  Thema  fiir  das  Einwei- 
Iningskonzert  ?"  fragte  ich  ihn.  ,,Leider  nein",  war  die  Antwort. 
,,Was  meinen  Sie  zit  der  Schopfung?"  ,,Ach,  die  ist  ja  doch  viel 
zu  schwer."  ,,Gerade  weil  sie  schwer  ist,  diirfte  sie  ein  Sporn 
fiir  uns  sein.  Es  ist  Ruhm  dabei  zu  holen.  Vor  einem  Jahre 
noch  schien  uns  die  Glocke  schwer.  Wie  hat  sie  uns  emporge- 
hoben !  Wir  fiihlen  uns.  Das  Kleinzeug  schmeckt  nicht  mehr. 
Der  Eifer  scheint  zu  erschlaffen.  Zeigen  Sie  uns  ein  hehres  Ziel, 
ein  ideahsches.  Excelsior !  Haydn's  Schopfung  —  sie  soil  die 
unsrige  kronen.  Aufschreien  lassen  Sie  uns :  ,,Es  —  wer-de  — 
Licht !"  Nun  denn,  meinetwegen.  Und  Sie,  meine  Damen, 
machen  Sie  mit?"  ,,Gewiss,  wenn's  der  Papa  erlaubt."  —  Die 
Erlaubniss  ward  erlangt,  alle  Gesangkriifte  Hobokens  traten  bei. 
Die  Einiibung  ging  gut.  Dem  beschrankten  Raume  von  Odd 
Fellows'  Hall  musste  ein  Orchester  angepasst  werden.  Das  klas- 
sische  Streichquartett  aus  Steinway  Hall :  Theo.  Thomas,  Mo- 
senthal,  Bergmann  und  Wchmeier,  mit  Orgel  unter  Professor 
Timm  von  der  Philharmonia,  gab  seine  Zusage.  Sopran  sang 
u.ns  Frau  Schroder-Diimmler ;  Alt.  Frau  Anschiitz-Zimmer- 
mann ;  Tenor,  Wilh.  Steinway;  Bass  (?)  aus  Brooklyn,  eine 
Pracht-Acquisition.  Fiir  den  englischen  Theil  des  Auditoriums 
besorgte  ich  den  Text  in  Englisch.  Mit  dessen  Abschrift  in  fetter 
Dinte  von  mcincr  Hand,  fertig  zum  Steindruck,  kam  ich  zu 
Hexamer  ihn  bittend  um  den  Aufriss  zur  Schulfronte.  ,,Wozu 
denn  das?"  ,.Fur  mich  zum  Abzeichncn  hier  auf  dies  Blatt." 
„Ach,  geben  Sie  her,  das  babe  ich  im  Kopf."  Das  Blatt  mir  aus 
der  Hand  nehmen,  ein  Schritt  an's  Pult,  ein  Paar  Federstriche 
—  und  da  stand's.  —  Und  hier,  Herr  Prasident,  da  steht's  noch 


Konvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien  245 

heiite,  von  der  Hand  Hires  Oheims.  und  die  Handschrift  dariiber 
—  ist  meine. 

Die  Auffiihrung  bei  iiberfulltem  Haiise  —  Korridor,  Trep- 
pen,  Alles  war  voll ;  auf  der  Strasse  selbst  drangten  sie  sich  — 
war  ein  ungeahnter  Erfolg.  Wahrend  dem  herrlichen  Wechsel- 
gesang  des  Finale  erscholl  aus  dem  Gedrange  dicht  hinter  mir  in 
der  offenen  Thiir  ein  gellender  Pfiff.  ,Junge,  willst  Du  gleich!" 
Ein  Griff,  nnd  ich  hatte  ihn  am  Krips,  ihn  an  die  Luft  zu  setzen. 
„0,  for  God's  sake,  sir !"  winselte  der  Bengel,  und  umklammerte 
meine  Knie;  ,,for  God's  sake  leave  me  here.  O,  how  beautiful! 
I  couldn't  help  it."  Die  Extase  des  Applaus,  fiel's  mir  ein.  Den 
Jungen  hochgehoben,  hielt  ich  ihn  so  bis  zum  Schlusse.  —  Fritz 
Kapp,  Dr.  Wilh.  Lowe,  Carl  Anschiitz,  aus  dem  Auditorium, 
schiittelten  freudestrahlend  mir  die  Hand. 

Der  Ernst  der  Zeiten  trat  wiederum  heran,  diesmal  auf's 
bitterste.  Die  Secession  brach  aus.  Der  Staat  rief  seine  Milizen. 
Um  diese  hatte  es  zu  Anfang  traurig  ausgesehen.  Ein  Trunken- 
bold  in  unserem  County  war  ihr  General,  keiner  von  der  Rasse 
Grant,  von  der  Abe  Lincoln  wissen  wollte:  ,,What  brand  of 
whiskey  it  is  he  uses."  Es  war  —  ich  schweige.  Die  Deutschen 
batten  ihr  eigenes  Korps.  die  Hudson  Rifles,  ihre  eigene  Schwa- 
dron,  einexerzirt  von  Garelly,  preussischer  Husar,  ihre  eigene 
Feldbatterie,  kommandirt  von  Hexamer.  Sie  riickten  aus.  Die 
Concordia  gab  acht  ihrer  besten  jungen  Manner,  darunter  zwei 
Brijder  Briick,  dem  Obrist  Blenker  mit  in's  Feld.  Bei  Bull  Run 
standen  sie,  die  Flucht  der  Geschlagenen  deckend,  in  der  Vorhut. 
Surrender!  schreit's  und  —  Fire!  —  Da  lag  die  Black  Horse 
Guard,  und  kehrt  machte  der  Nachtrupp.  Damn  the  Dutch!  — 
Leutnant  Briick  war's,  der  kommandirte.  Ein  Bein  Hess  er  den 
Rebellen,  auf  dem  andern  kam  er  vergniigt  nach  Haus,  wieder 
in  seine  alte  Buchhalterstelle  bei  Bolting.  Die  Batterie  Hexamer 
erntete  Ruhm.  Als  Colonel  kehrte  er,  nach  Appomattox  erst, 
heim,  zuriick  in  seinen  Beruf.  Die  Weehawken  Turnpike  in 
einen  Boulevard  zu  verwandeln,  war  er,  von  Union  Hill  herab, 


246  Konvention  des  Deiitsch-Am.  Central-  Vcr.  von  Penyisylvanien 

aiif  abschiissiger,  holpriger  Fahrt.  Da  brach  sein  Wagen.  Der 
zersplitterte  Schaft  verletzte  ibm  die  Brust.  Noch  einmal  nahm 
ich  die  Gelegenheit  wahr,  ihm  einen  Freiindschaftsdienst  zu 
leisten ;  daraiif  driickte  er  mir  die  Hand.  Dann  trieb's  mich  fort 
zu  anderen  Aufgaben,  iind  wir  sahen  uns  nicht  mehr. 

Hier  sollte  und  mochte  ich  schliessen.  In  Erwagung  aber 
unserer  heute  besprochenen  Pflichten  gegen  die  deutsche  Schule 
hierzulande  und  der  fiir  sie  zu  begehenden  Schritte,  fiihle  ich 
mich  gedrungen,  einen  RiickbHck  zu  werfen  auf  den  Gang  der 
Hoboken  Academy,  die  in  ihren  Anfangen  als  Bild  der  Nachfolge 
gait  fiir  die  Union,  und  aus  der  selbst  fiir  den  Lehrerbund  und 
das  deutsche  Seminar  eine  starke  Initiative  hervorging.  Gab  sie 
doch  dem  Letzteren  in  bedenkhcher  Zeit  seinen  ersten  Direktor. 
Ich,  fiir  mein  Theil,  in  meinem  Berufe  nach  anderen  Richtungen 
und  an  anderen  Orten  auf's  starkste  in  Anspruch  genommen, 
konnte  der  Akademie  seit  ihrer  Griindung  zu  ihrer  Fiihrung  und 
Erhaltung  einen  aktiven  Dienst  nicht  widmen.  Nie  aber  Hess 
ich  ihren  Fortgang  ausser  Acht,  und  wie  die  Aufforderung  mich 
traf,  in  Bedrangnissfallen  zu  erscheinen,  leistete  ich  Folge.  Das 
letzte  Mai.  dass  dies  gesbechah — es  war  von  Paterson  aus — war 
es  gefolgt  von  mich  tiefbetriibenden  Erfahrungen.  Bis  jetzt  habe 
ich  sie  verschwiegen,  diesen  Augenblick  aber  drangen  sie  sich 
mir  auf  die  Lippen. 

Es  handelte  sich  um  nichts  Geringeres,  als  um  den  Antrag 
des  Vorstandes  bei  der  dafiir  berufenen  Extra-Generalversamm- 
lung  auf  Absetzung  des  Schuldirektors,  Dr.  Schoeder.  Ich  hatte 
den  Herrn  als  Mann  und  in  seiner  Wirksamkeit  als  Lehrer  ken- 
nen  und  schiitzen  gelernt  und  nie  ein  Wort  des  Tadels  iiber  ihn 
gehort.  Die  Anklage  und  ihre  Priifung  ergab,  dass  der  Vater 
eines  renitenten  Schiilers  zum  Direktor  gekommen  war,  ihn  zu 
ersuchen,  Strafmassregeln  gegen  seinen  Sohn  anzuwenden.  Bei 
einer  schweren  Veranlassung  hatte  der  Direktor  einige  Stunden 
gewohnlichen  Karzerarrest  iiber  ihn  verhiingt.  Der  Vater  hatte 
hieriiber  bei  dem  Vorstande  dringend  Klage  erhoben,  auf  deren 


Konvention  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien  247 

Grttnd  ganz  allein  der  Antrag  auf  Absetzung  fusste.  Keine  der 
Kreuz-  und  Qiierfragen  war  im  Stande,  der  Anklage  eine  andere, 
als  diese  eine  Ursache  abzuringen.  Dass  sie  eine  gesuchte  und 
schwer  zu  finden  gewesen  war,  musste  jedem  Unbefangenen  ein- 
leuchten.  Um  dem  versteckten  Grtinde  auf  die  Spur  zu  kom- 
men,  wandte  ich  mich  an  den  Prasidenten  des  Vorstandes,  Herrn 
H.  A.  Meier,  mit  der  Frage,  was  er  als  Vertreter  des  Norddeut- 
sclien  Lloyd  dachte,  dass  aus  diesem  Rhederei-Institute  werden 
sollte,  wenn  dessen  O'ffiziere  in  Ausubung  ihres  Berufs  so  klein- 
lich  gemassregelt  werden. diirften.  Ich  zeigte  ihm  die  Scliwere 
des  Missgriffs,  als  seiner  Person  nicht  wiirdig,  und  bat  ihn  drin- 
gend,  den  Antrag  weiter  zu  begriinden  oder  fallen  zu  lassen. 
Vergebens ;  die  abgekartete  Sache  stand  fest,  und  mit  kiihleni 
Grimm  bestand  man  auf  Abstimmung.  Diese  erfolgte  naturlich 
auf  Verwerfung.  Der  Vorstand,  hierauf  vorbereitet,  erhob  sich 
und  verweigerte  einstimmig  seinen  weiteren  Dienst.  Nochmals 
remonstrirte  ich,  aber  vergebens.  Die  Resignation  ward  ange- 
nommen.  Ich  beantragte  nun  ein  Dankesvotum  fiir  seither  ge- 
leistete,  treue  Dienste.  Mein  Antrag  ward  nicht  unterstiitzt, 
dagegen  einer  auf  sofortige  Wahl  eines  neuen  Vorstandes  ange- 
nommen.  Sie  geschah  durch  Ernennung  aller  Vorgeschlagenen, 
mit  Alexander  P.  Schem  als  Prasidenten.  Dieser  sagte  mir  nach 
aufgehobener  Sitzung,  dies  ist  ein  Pyrrhus-Sieg.  Mit  dem 
Vorstande  in  dieser  Zusammensetzung  lasst  sich  nicht  arbeiten. 
Der  Ausgang  nach  einer  Woche  war  der  briefliche  Dank  an  mich 
von  Dr.  Schoeder,  mit  der  Erklarung,  er  sei  der  aufreibenden 
Chikane  miide  und  trete  von  seinem  Amte  zuriick.  An  seine 
Stelle  kam  ein  Herr,  der  fiir  ein  anderes  wissenschaftliches  Feld 
gebildet,  der  Errichtung  und  Fiihrung  einer  Privatschule  in  Long 
Island,  N.  Y.,  einen  Ruf  als  Schulmann  verdankte.  Alexander 
P.  Schem,  leider,  starb  bald  darauf,  und  mit  ihm  verlor  ich  mit 
der  Hoboken  Academy  Fiihlung,  denn  man  horte  auf,  mir  pflicht- 
gemass  die  jedem  Mitgliede  schuldigen  Anzeigen  und  B'erichte 
zu  schicken,  obwohl  ich  wiederholt  darum  einkam.    Als  ich  kiirz- 


248  Konventio7i  des  Deutsch-Am.  Central-  Ver.  von  Pennsylvanien 

lich  veranlasst  wurde,  die  Sohne  mir  befreundeter  Familien  im 
Deutschen  zu  iinterrichten.  schrieb  ich  an  den  Direktor  der  Ho- 
boken  Akademie  mit  der  Bitte  um  ein  Verzeicbniss  der  in  der 
Anstalt  gebrauchbchen  deutschen  Lehr-  und  Lesebiicher  gegen 
Vergiitung  fiir  das  Bemiihen.  Ohne  Antwort,  liess  ich  ein  zwei- 
tes  Gesuch  postregistrirt  folgen,  bekam  ein  Return-Receipt  mit 
der  Signatur  eines  Unterlehrers  als  einzige  Erwiedering.  Auf 
Wiederhohing  der  Bitte  unter  Meldung  des  Vorfalls  an  den  Pra- 
sidenten  des  Vereins,  Herrn  Dr.  W.  T.  Kudlich,  erhielt  ich  ein 
Schreiben  in  Englisch  von  W.  F.  Knox,  Principal  Ph.  D.,  ver- 
sichemd,  dass  er  zu  sehr  beschaftigt  sei,  aber  doch  sorgen  wolle, 
dass  ich  die  Liste  bald  bekame.  Ein  vierter  Brief  ward  nothig, 
worin  ich  fragte,  ob  er  nicht  einen  Pedell  hatte,  oder  einen 
Schiller  der  Mittelklasse,  der  sich  gegen  den  einliegenden  Dollar 
Belohnung  der  Viertelstunde  der  Abschrift  der  Titel  der  deut- 
schen Schulbiicher  fiir  mich  unterziehen  wiirde.  Ich  wiirde  da- 
durch  der  Miihe  iiberhoben  sein,  mir  die  Liste  persdnlich  zu  holen. 
All  dies  in  Englisch,  Couvert  an  Herrn  Dr.  W.  T.  Kudlich  ge- 
schickt,  brachte  Willfahrung  und  pranumerando  spater  Express- 
Sendung  von  zwei  Serien  der  Biicher.  Dergestalt  lohnt  die 
Hoboken  Akademie  und  der  Akademische  Verein  von  Iwutc  dem 
Griinder.  Das  Lehrerkollegium,  anfangs  mit  dem  Direktor 
deutsch  und  durchweg  mannlich,  hat  eine  Metamorphose  erfah- 
ren  in's  Anglikanische  und  Weibliche.  Ob  dies  dem  Ideal  der 
Vorfahren  entspricht?  Ich  deutete  kiirzlich  im  Schreiben  an 
einen  hochgeehrten,  lieben  Freund  und  friiheren  Mitarbeiter 
darauf  bin.  Er  erwiderte :  Wir  konnen  wohl  die  U.  S.  nicht  ger- 
manisiren ;  so  werden  wir  wohl  gestatten  miissen,  dass  unsere 
Enkel  anglisirt  werden.  —  Das  ist  nun  allerdings  Geschmacks- 
sache,  iiber  die  sich  nicht  streiten  lasst.  In  Gedanken  aber  sage 
ich  mir:  ,,Wenn  in  anderen  50  Jahren  jeder  junge  Amerikaner 
so  anglisirt  sein  wird,  wie  die  Enkel  dieses  lieben  Freundes  es 
heute  sind,  dann  ist  Amerika  germanisirt." 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  OF  GERMAN  AMERICANA  FOR 
THE  YEAR   1906. 

William  Godfrey  Bek. 

Die  Gartenlaubc.    Nos.  7,  8,  9,  of  1906.    Bilder  aus  der  Entwicklung 
von  Nordamerika.     Ernst  von  Hesse-Wartegg. 

No.  12.  Karl  Schurz,  deutscher  Freiheitskampfer  und  ame- 
rikanischer  Staatsmann.     Karl  Blind. 

No.  16.  Aus  den  Erinnerungen  eines  deutschen  Ansiedlers 
in  Siidbrasilien. 

No.  20.  Klein-Deutschland  in  Siidbrasilien.  Wolfgang  Am- 
mon. 
Die  Glocke.  Vol.  I.  No.  i.  Der  Kampf  um  die  Einheit  in 
Deutschland  und  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  von  Amerika. 
Hermann  Oncken.  —  Willkonimene  Gaste  (Professoren-Aus- 
tausch).  —  Die  Welt  der  Bretter.  Edmund  Deusz.  —  Unsere 
Kiinstler.  Edmund  Deusz.  —  Der  deutsch-amerikanische  Na- 
tionalbund  der  Vereinigten  Staaten.    Emil  Mannhardt. 

Nos.  I,  2  and  3.  Eine  Fahrt  deutscher  Kiinstler  in's  Land 
der  Azteken.     Ferdinand  Welb. 

No.  I.    Caspar  Butz.  —  Ein  Dichterleben.    Martin  Drescher. 

No.  2.  Goethe  und  die  neue  Welt.  Martin  Drescher.  — 
Das  Sigel-Denkmal  in  St.  Louis.  Edna  Fern.  —  Goethe's 
Briefe  aus  Leipzig  an  seine  Schwester.  Arthur  Altschul.  — 
Ernst  Schmidt :  Ein  Characterbild.  Martin  Drescher.  —  Ben- 
jamin Franklin.  Emil  Mannhardt.  —  Die  amerikanischen  Rit- 
ter  vom  deutschen  Geiste.     L.  Viereck. 

No.  3.  Deutschland  und  das  amerikanische  Deutschtum. 
"Amicus."  —  Das  verflossene  Biihnenjahr.  Edmund  Deusz.  — 
Eduard  Dorsch.  —  Ein  Gedankenlyriker.  Otto  C.  Schneider. 
—  Verband  deutscher  Schriftsteller  in  Amerika. 

No.  4.  Wiirdige  Trauerfeier  (Schurz).  E.  D.  —  Unser 
Colonial-Regiment  in   Porto  Rico.     Sigmund   Krausz.  —  Er- 

(249) 


250     Bibliography  of  German  Amcricatia  for  the    Year  igo6. 

innerungen  an  Hermann  Raster.  Rud.  Puchner.  —  De  La 
Salle  (Poem).  Karl  Gundlach.  —  Eine  Anregung.  Wie  kann 
dcm  Aincrikancr  das  deutsche  Vereinsleben  am  besten  vor 
Augen  gcfiihrt  werden?  —  In  Memoriam  (Carl  Scliurz).  Carl 
Mauch.  —  Akademischer  Ideenaustausch.  Hugo  Miinsterberg. 
—  Henrik  Ibsen,  der  Bekenner.     Martin  Drescher. 

No.  5.  Poem:  Die  Spartanerin  (Carl  Schurzes  Mother). 
Martin  Drescher.  —  Carl  Schurz.  Otto  C.  Schneider.  —  Er- 
innerungen  an  Carl  Schurz.  William  Taussig.  —  Carl  Schurz 
als  Amerikaner.  Marion  Dexter  Learned.  —  Carl  Schurz,  der 
Deutschamerikaner.  Otto  Heller.  —  Carl  Schurz  bei  der  Ein- 
weihung  des  Germanischen  Museums  der  Harvard  Universitat. 
Kuno  Francke.  —  Carl  Schurz  und  seine  deutsche  Erziehung. 
F.  C.  Winkler.  —  General  Schurz  bei  Chancellorsville.  C.  H. 
Doerflinger.  —  Carl  Schurz  (Sonnet).  Hugo  Miinsterberg.  — 
Wie  Carl  Schurz  lebte  und  wirkte.  Marie  Jiissen.  —  Mein 
erster  Besuch  bei  Carl  Schurz.  Karl  Knortz.  —  Nekrolog  fiir 
Carl  Schurz  (Poem).  A.  W.  Hildebrandt.  —  Schurz-Erinne- 
rungen.  Max  Eberhardt.  —  Beim  kranken  Carl  Schurz.  Ad. 
V.  Ehrenberg.  —  Carl  Schurz  und  der  Wald.  Geo.  Giegold.  — 
Carl  Schurz  im  Felde.  E.  F.  L.  Gausz.  —  In  Anglo-Amerika- 
nischer  Beleuchtung.  Edmund  Deusz.  —  Konrad  Krez,  der 
Dichter  der  Pleimat-Sehnsucht.     Martin  Drescher. 

No.  6.  Ein  Besuch  bei  Albert  Jagers,  dem  Schopfer  des 
Steuben-Denkmals.  Georg  Sylvester  Viereck.  —  Theodor 
Kirchhoff.  Georg  Giegold.  —  Fiir  Turner  und  Sanger.  Con- 
stantin  Grebner.  —  Der  Trium])h  des  deutschen  Liedes  auf 
dem  22.  Sangerfest  des  Sangerbundes  des  Nordwestens.  Jo- 
seph A.  Schwickerath. 

No.  7.  Die  vernunftsgemasz  ausgebaute  Volksschule,  hohere 
Biirgerschule,  als  Hauptmittel  zur  Wiedergeburt  des  amerika- 
nischen  Volkstums.  C.  H.  Dorflinger.  —  Deutsches  Wesen  in 
der  amerikanischen  Volksentwicklung.  Ernst  Brunken.  — 
Der  deutsche  Tag  in  den  Ver.  Staaten  von  Amerika.  Emil 
Mannhardt. 

No.  8.  Reminiscences  of  Carl  Schurz.  Edmund  J.  James.  — 
Die  Kunst  muss  frei  sein.    A.  v.  Ehrenberg.  —  Der  unbekannte 


Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the    Year  igo6.     251 

Poe.  Georg  Sylvester  Viereck.  —  Zur  geistigen  Beziehung 
zvvischen  Amerika  und  Deutschland.  H.  von  Lessel.  —  Ein 
Denkmal  deutschen  Kunstsinnes  und  deutscher  Tatkraft.  (Ger- 
man Theatre  of  Philadelphia.)  Fred.  R.  Minuth.  —  Gedichte 
von  Georg  Sylvester  Viereck,  M.  D.  —  Bci  den  Trappisten  in 
Kentucky.    H.  H.  Pick.  —  Blinde  Hessen.    J.  Rudolph. 

Nos  8  and  9.  Carl  Schurz  und  was  zu  tun  er  seinen  deutschen 
Volksgenossen  in  Amerika  hinterliess.     Karl  Detlev  Jessen. 

No.  9.  Amerikanische  Universitaten  und  ihre  deutschen  Ab- 
teilungen.  J.  A.  Walz.  —  Die  Entdeckung  Amerikas  durch  die 
Deutschen.  Hermann  Holz.  —  Ernst  Anton  Ziindt.  Martin 
Drescher. 

No.  10.  December,  1906.  Das  Deutschtum  in  Oesterreich. 
Adolf  C.  von  Noe.  —  Die  Staatsuniversitat  von  Wisconsin. 
A.  R.  Hohlfeld.  —  Daniel  Chester  French.  Ein  amerikanischer 
Kiinstler.  Rudolf  Tombo.  —  Entgegnung:  „Die  Kunst  muss 
frei  sein."     A.  Hercz-Raster. 

Die  Ncucrcn  Sprachen.  Vol.  xiv.  No.  6.  Jahresbericht  der  Deut- 
schen Zentralstelle  fiir  Internationalen  Briefwechsel.  1905-1906. 

Eclectic  Magazine.  March,  1906.  German  Colonization  in  Brazil. 
F.  W.  Wile. 

Education.  January,  1906.  Educational  Courses  in  German  Uni- 
versities. Edward  O.  Sisson.  —  The  Educational  Reform  of 
Frederick  the  Great.  Samuel  Weir.  —  German  Secondary  Edu- 
cation.   Arthur  Marvin. 

September,  1906.  Phases  of  Modern  Education.  German 
Education.     M.  D.  Learned. 

November,  1906.  The  Contents  of  Religious  Instruction  in 
German  Protestant  Schools.    E.  O.  Sisson. 

Educational  Review.  Impressions  of  German  Universities.  R.  H. 
Jesse. 

Engineering  Magazine.  February,  1906.  American,  and  the  Ger- 
man Peril.    L.  J.  Magee. 

Fortnightly  Review.  January,  1906.  German  Colonization  in  Bra- 
zil.    F.  W.  Wile. 

German  American  Annals.  New  Series.  Vol.  IV.  No.  i.  Diarium 
einer  Reise  von  Bethlehem,  Pa.,  nach  Bethabara,  N.  C.  Wm. 
J.  Hinke. 


252       Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6 

Nos.  I,  2,  3.  Walt  Whitman  and  the  Germans.  Richard 
Riethmueller. 

No.  2.  List  of  Translations  of  German  Prose  and  List  of 
Articles  on  German  Countries  (concluded).  Edward  Z.  Davis. 
—  Resume  of  Ludwig  Fulda's  "Maskerade,"  together  with  an 
account  of  Fulda's  Visit  to  Philadelphia. 

Nos.  3  and  4.  The  Influence  of  Salomon  Gessner  upon  Eng- 
lish Literature  (concluded).     Bertha  Ried. 

No.  4.  Schillers  Conception  of  Liberty  and  the  Spirit  of  76. 
W.  W.  Florer. 

No.  5.  Deutsch-Amerikanisches  in  der  New  Yorker  Public 
Library.  Richard  E.  Helbig.  —  Schiller  in  Amerika.  W.  H. 
Carruth.  —  (Jtto  Fuchs.     C.  O.  Schonrich. 

No.  6.  Philipp  Matthias  Wolsiefifer.  C.  F.  Huch.  —  Schil- 
ler's Aesthetic  Idealism  and  American  Literature  and  Art. 
M.  D.  Learned. 

No.  7.  Protokoll :  Staats-Konvention  des  Deutsch-Ameri- 
kanischen  Zentral-Bundes  von  Pennsylvanien. 

No.  8.  Scandinavian  American  Literature.  (To  be  con- 
tinued.) Amandus  Johnson.  —  Documents  Relating  to  Early 
German  Settlers  in  America.     M.  D.  Learned. 

Nos.  9  and  10.  Carl  Schurz,  der  grosste  Deutsch-Ameri- 
kaner.    A.  Spath. 

Nos.  9,  10,  II  and  12  (continued).  Diary  of  Rev.  Andrew 
Rudman  —  July  25,  1696,  to  June  14,  1697.    Luther  Anderson. 

No.  II.  Geschichtsschreibung,  Karl  Lamprecht  und  die  neu- 
este  Zeit.    Albert  J.  W.  Kern. 

No.  12.     Carl  Schurz.     Eugen  Kiihnemann. 
Harper's   Wec^kly.      May    12,    1906.      German    Emigration    to    the 
United  States  and  South  America. 

May  26,  1906.     Carl  Schurz — The  Pilot.     S.  L.  Clemens.  — 
Carl  Schurz.     W.  D.  Howells. 
Jahrcshcrichtc  fiir  Ncucre  Deutsche  LitcratnrgeschichtiT.     Vol.  xiv. 

Deutsches  in  der  amerikanischen  Literatur.    L.  P.  Betz. 
Journal  of  the  Presbyterian  Historical  Society.     Vol.  Ill,  No.  5. 
Diaries  of   Early   Missionaries  Traveling  Among  the  German 
Reformed  Churches,  1743-1749.     Wm.  J.  Hinke. 


Bibliography  of  German  America^ia  for  the  Year  igo6       253 

No.  7.     The  Early  History  of  VVentz's  Reformed  Church, 
Montgomery  Co.,  Pa.     Wm.  J.  Hinke. 

December,   1906.     The  Origin  of  the   Reformed  Church  in 
South  CaroHna.     Wm.  J.  Hinke. 
Jung  America.    Cincinnati,  O.    Vol.  V,  No.  5.    Heine  Number. 
McChtre's  Magacinc.    January  to  December,  1906,  and  continued  in 
1907.     Reminiscences  of  a  Long  Life.     Carl  Schurz. 
July,  1906.     Carl  Schurz — His  Career. 
August,  1906.    Impressions  of  Carl  Schurz. 
Methodist  Rcviczv.     Vol.  xxii,  No.   i.     Saxon  Methodism.     LT.  S. 

Grant  Perkins.  —  Theological  Reaction  in  Germany. 
Nezv  Yorker  Echo.    January  20,  1906,  and  February  10,  1906.     Die 
amerikanischen  Ritter  vom  deutschen  Geist.     L.  Viereck. 

March  10,  1906.     Deutsche  Lyrik  in  Amerika.     G.  A.  Neefif. 
May  19,  1906.     Carl  Schurz. 

June  9,  1906.    Carl  Schurz,  der  treueste  Freund  aller  Fremd- 
geborenen. 

September  15,   1906.     Das  neue  deutsche  Theater  in  Phila- 
delphia. 

November  10,  1906.     Die  Amerikaner  auf  der  Opernbuhne. 
Mitteilungcn  des  Deutschen  Pionicr-Vereins  von  Philadelphia.  No.  i. 
1906.     Die  Entstehung  und  Entwickelung  der  Sangerfeste  in 
den  nordostlichen  Staaten.     C.  F.  Huch. 

No.  2.     1906.     General  Peter  Muhlenberg.     C.  F.  Huch.  — 
Deutsche  Republikanische  Kampflieder. 
North  American  Revieiv.     March,  1906.     Commercial  Relations  be- 
tween Germany  and  the  United  States.     W.  J.  Stone. 

May,  1906.    German  Emigration  and  South  American  Settle- 
ments.   Baron  Speck  v.  Sternburg. 

August,   1906.     Scandinavian- American :  His  Status.     Hrolf 
Wisby. 
Outlook.     May   12,   1906.     Cincinnati  Musical  Festival. 

May  19,  1906.     Carl  Schurz. 
Papers  Read  Before  the  Lancaster  County  (Pa.)  Historical  Society. 
Vol.  X.     No.  I.     The  Musical  and  Literary  Organizations  and 
Their  Leaders,  of  Landisville  and  Vicinity. 

No.  5.    An  Early  Road  Petition.    F.  R.  Diffenderffer. 


254       Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6 

No.  8.    Notes  on  Colonel  Houssacker.    F.  R.  Diffenderffer. 
No.  9.     Germans  in  Pennsylvania.     R.  M.  Bolenius. 
Pcnnsyhania  Mai^azinc  of  History  and  Dioi^raphy.     July  and  Oc- 
tober, 1906.     Extracts  from  the  Journal  of  Rev.  Andreas  San- 
del,  Pastor  of  "Gloria  Die"  Swedish  Lutheran  Church,  Phila- 
delphia, 1702- 1719.  —  Christian  Gobrccht,  Artist  and  Inventor. 
Charles  Gobrecht  Darrach. 
Poet  Lore.     Spring  Number.  1906.     Longfellow  and  German  Ro- 
manticism.    Fred  Lewis  Pattee. 

Autumn     Number,    1906.      German    American     Literature. 
Amalie  von  Ende. 
Prenssische  Jahrbiicher.    Vol.  126.    No.  11.    Aus  Amerika's  Sturm- 

und  Drangperiotlc.  Bcda  Philipp. 
Proceedings  of  the  Pennsylvania  German  Society.  Vol.  XV.  The 
Pennsylvania-German  in  the  French  and  Indian  War.  H.  M. 
M.  Richards.  —  Frederick  the  Great  and  the  United  States. 
J.  G.  Rosengarten.  —  Old  Historic  Germantown.  N.  H. 
Keyser. 
Putnam's  Monthly.    January,  1907.     Carl  Schurz — The  Greatest  of 

Foreign-born  Americans.     Henry  Loomis  Nelson. 
Reader's  Magazine.    December,  IQ06.     Little  Germany.    A.  Hale. 
Reznezv  of  Reviezvs.     January,  1906.     Carl  Schurz  in  1848. 

April,   1906.     Significance  of  German  Emigration   for  Ger- 
many and  for  the  United  States. 

June,  1906.     Carl  Schurz — Public  Career.     F.  Franklin. 
August,  1906.     Norwegian  Emigration  and  our  Interest  in  it. 
November,   1906.     Kaiser  Wilhelm  Lectureship.     Hermann 
Schumacher. 

December,  1906.    Eminent  Foreign  Composers  and  Guests  of 
America.     L.  Gilman. 
School  Reznezv.     March,    1906.     German   and   American    Schools. 

W.  S.  Monroe. 
Souvenir-Program  Augustana  Synoden.  47.  Synodalmotet.  Den 
svenska  kolonicn  vid  Delaware  och  dess  forsamlingar.  Aman- 
dus  Johnson. 
The  American  Catholic  Quarterly  Reznezv.  Vol.  xxxi.  No.  122. 
Basil  Valentine:  A.  Great  Pre-Reformation  Chemist.  E.  Ave- 
ling. 


Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6       255 

No.  123.  Within  the  Penumbra  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War, 
(It  deals  with  a  translation  of  Johannes  Janssen's  "History  of 
the  German  People  since  the  Close  of  the  Middle  Ages,"  by  A. 
W.  Christie.) 

The  Bibliothcca  Sacra.  January  and  April,  1906.  Luther's  Doc- 
trine and  Criticism  of  Scripture.     Kemper  FuUerton. 

October,  1906.  Lessing's  Philosophy  of  Religion.  James 
Lindsay. 

The  Biblical  World.  July  and  August,  1906.  The  New  Testa- 
ment Apocrypha,  with  Special  Reference  to  Recent  German 
Contributions.     Wm.  Muss-Arnolt. 

The  Christian  Intelligencer.    October  10,   1906.    America's  Educa-  ^ 
tional  Debt  to  the  Dutch.     Andrew  S.  Draper. 

The  Bookman.     August,  1906.     Lincoln  and  Schurz. 

The  Hartford  Seminary  Record.  Vol.  xvi.  No.  2.  Wellhausen 
on  the  Synoptic  Gospel.     John  Moore  Trout. 

The  Independent.  April  5,  1906.  German  Professors  on  American 
Universities. 

November  29,  1906.     Carl  Schurz.     Poem.    R.  W.  Gilder. 

The  lozva  Journal  of  History  and  Politics.  No.  2.  1906.  The 
Danish  Contingent  in  the  Population  of  Early  Iowa.  George 
T.  Flom.  —  The  Growth  of  the  Scandinavian  Factor  in  the 
Population  of  Iowa.    George  T.  Flom. 

The  Journal  of  American  Folk-Lore.  Vol.  xix.  No.  yT,.  Pennsyl- 
vania-German Riddles  and  Nursery  Rhymes.     J  .B.  Stoudt. 

No.  74.  German  Tales  Collected  in  Canada.  W.  J.  Wintem- 
berg. 

The  Lutheran  Church  Rcaiew.  July,  1906.  The  Schmuckers : 
Samuel  S.  and  Beale.    A.  Spaeth. 

October,  1906.  Luther  as  a  German.  R.  E.  Thompson.  — 
Is  it  Advisable  for  Young  Theologians  to  Study  in  German 
Universities?     Otto  Mees. 

The  Missouri  Alumni  Quarterly.  Vol.  II.  No.  2.  A  Glance  at  a 
German  University.    B.  F.  Hoffman. 

The  Munsey.  March,  1906.  The  Germans  in  America.  Herbert 
Casson. 

July,  1906.    The  Scandinavians  in  America.    Herbert  Casson. 
November,  1906.    The  Dutch  in  America.    Herbert  Casson. 


256        Bibliography  of  Gcfman  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6 

The  Nation.    May  17,  1906.    Carl  Schurz. 

November  8  to   15,   1906.     Thorean  and   German  Romanti- 
cism. 

December  21,  1906.     Foreign  Observers  of  Modern  Germany. 
The  Nineteenth   Century.      July,    1906.      German   Trade   in    South 
America.     Sir  Alexander  B.  Tulloch. 


(5erman  Qmerican  Qnrtals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 

A  BI-MONTHLY   DEVOTED   TO  THE  COMPARATIVE  STUDY  OF  THE 

Historical,  Literary,  Linguistic,  Educational  and  Commercial  Relations 

OF 

Germany  and  America 


ORGAN  OF 

The  German  American  Historical  Society 
The  National  German  American  Alliance 
The  Union  of  Old  German  Students  in  America 


EDITOR, 
MARION  DEXTER  LEARNED, 

University  of  Pennsylvania, 
CONTRIBUTING  EDITORS  : 
H.  C.  G.  Brandt,  Julius  Goebel, 

Hamilton  College.  Harvard  University. 

W.  H.  Carpenter,  J.  T.  Hatfield, 

Columbia  University.  Northwestern  University. 

W.  H.  Carruth,  W.  T.  Hewett, 

University  of  Kansas.  Cornell  University. 

Hermann  Collitz,  A.  R.  Hohlfeld, 

Bryn  Mawr  College.  University  of  Wisconsin. 

Starr  W.  Cutting,  Hugo  K.  Schilling, 

University  of  Chicago.  University  of  California. 

Daniel  K.  Dodge,  H.  Schmidt-Wartenberg, 

University  of  Illinois.  University  of  Chicago. 

A.  B.  Faust,  Hermann  Schoenfeld, 

Cornell  University.  Columbian  University. 

KuNO  Francke,  Calvin  Thomas, 

Harvard  University.  Columbia  University. 

Adolph  Gerber,  H.  S.  White, 

Late     of   Earlham  College.  Harvard  University. 

Henry  Wood,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 


New  Series,  Vol.  5.  Old  Series,  Vol.  9. 

1907. 


published  by 

THE  GERMAN  AMERICAN  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY 
Chas.  H.  Breitbarth,  Business  Manager, 

pbiladelpbfa* 


BerHn :                          mew  l|)orft :  Xeipslg  j 

MAYER  &  MCLLER               CARL  A.  STERN  F.  A.  BROCKHAUS 

XonDon:  Paris: 

KEGAN,  PAUL  TRENCH,  TRUBNER  &  CO..  Ltd.  H.  LeSOUDIER 


(Bcrman  Qmcrican  Qnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 

New  Series,  September  and  October  Old  Series,. 

Vol.  V.     No.   5.  1907.  Vol.    IX.      No.   5. 


FRANCIS  DANIEL  PASTORIUS, 
The  Founder  of  Germantown. 

By  Marion  Dexter  Learned. 
[Copyrighted] 

Chapter  III. 

YEARS  OF  PRACTICE  AND  TRAVEL. 

The  years  of  study  had  given  Pastorius  a  wide  acquaintance 
with  men  and  books.  At  Altdorf  he  had  come  into  touch  with 
some  of  the  greatest  scholars  of  the  German  Empire  and  with 
that  spirit  of  inquiry  which  had  made  Niirnberg  famous  among 
the  South  German  cities  in  promoting  the  knowledge  of  geog- 
raphy and  history,  letters  and  arts.  The  enterprise  and  progres- 
sive spirit  of  Altdorf  are  attested  by  the  fact  that  this  university 
was  the  first  in  Germany  to  establish  a  special  academic  chair  for 
Public  Law  (Jus  Publicum),  separating  this  subject  from  the 
professorship  of  history  with  which  it  had  hitherto  been  associ- 
ated. This  newly  created  chair  was  occupied  for  twenty  years 
(1654-1674)  by  the  renowned  Professor  Cregel  (Ernestus  Cre- 
gelius),  closely  connected  with  the  great  patrician  family  of 
Welsers  of  Augsburg,  having  married  the  widow  of  Hieronymus 
Anton  Welser,  who  died  in  Altdorf  in  1642  and  to  whose  memory 
a  tablet  was  erected  in  the  archway  of  the  Memorial  Chapel  with 
the  following  inscription : 

(259) 


26o  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Ein  edler  Welser  schlaft  hierinn 
Der  wann  er  wachte  Herz  und  Sinn 
Auf  seinen  Heyland  stellt 
Und  darum  gelit  er  auss  der  Welt 
Dem  Himmel  zu  da  er  recht  lebt 
Und  fiir  sei'm  Heyland  ewig  schwebt 
Der  du  dies  liesest  merk  es  wohl 
So  lebst  du  wie  man  leben  soll.^ 

The  attention  given  to  Classic  and  Oriental  languages  at 
Altdorf,  doubtless,  quickened  Pastorius'  interest  in  these  tongues, 
and  his  subsequent  study  of  French  at  Strassburg  and  Regensburg 
and  of  Italian  at  Jena  furnished  him  with  that  extraordinary  facil- 
ity in  the  use  of  these  modern  languages,  noticeable  in  his  later 
writings.  In  like  manner  the  live  interest  in  the  philosophical  and 
ethical  questions  of  the  time  at  the  (university  cultivated  in  the 
young  jurist  an  alertness  in  observing  the  significant  signs  of  the 
new  religious  regeneration,  which  was  then  taking  shape  in  the 
Pietistic  reform  of  Jacob  Spener.  In  a  word,  the  new  licentiate 
passed  from  the  halls  of  his  alma  mater,  Universitas  Altorfina,  to 
the  practice  of  his  profession  with  the  best  academic  equipment 
and  fairest  prospects  of  success. 

Lawyer  at  Windsheim. 

The  25th  of  November,  1676,  Pastorius  with  his  diploma  in 
hand  left  Altdorf  and  returned  to  Windsheim,  to  begin  the  prac- 
tice of  his  profession,  the  law.  Information  concerning  his  prac- 
tice here  is  meagre.  The  most  detailed  account  which  we  possess 
is  that  given  in  the  following  brief  paragraph  of  his  Genealogi- 
cal Sketch : 

"Here  [in  Windsheim]  J  practised  [Law]  above  two  years 
&  an  half,  keeping  mine  own  horse,  marching  from  one  Noble- 
man's house  in  the  Province  unto  the  other,   (auff  der  Wurst 


^  Cf.  Wills,  Geschichte  und  Beschreibung  der  Niirnbergischen  Universitdt 
Altdorf,  p.  293. 


Rathaus  in  Sommp:rhausen  in  1903. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  261 

herumb,2  as  they    use    to    speak,)   and    in    short    making  nothing 
but  work  for  Repentence."^ 

It  is  dear  from  this  account  that  the  practice  of  law  became 
distasteful  to  him,  at  least  in  his  later  years.  This  may  be  due  to 
his  unfortunate  experience  with  the  affairs  of  the  Frankfurt 
Company  in  Germantown,  nevertheless  he  was  evidently  out  of 
sympathy  with  much  that  he  encountered  in  his  profession  even 
in  Windsheim.  An  interesting  and  unexpected  corroboration 
of  his  dissatisfaction  with  the  law  is  found  in  one  of  the  manu- 
script volumes  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius,  his  father.  The 
passage  states  that  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  dissuaded  his  young 
stepbrother,  Augustin  Adam  Pastorius,^  from  selectmg  law  as 
his  profession : 

IVRISTA.     Omnis  Homo 

[Followed  by  a  cut  pasted  into  the  book,  representing  the  tra- 
ditional male  figure  holding  a  lobster  in  his  right  hand  and  a  serpent 
in  his  left,  bearing  respectively  these  inscriptions :  SI  LAXES,  ERE- 
PIT  (over  the  lobster),  and:  SI  STRINGAS,  ERVMPIT  (over  the 
serpent).] 

Vff  alle  Statel  gerecht 

Hang  den  Mantel  nach  dem  Wind 

Gibts  kein  Ochsen ;  gibts  ein  Rind. 

Studium  luris  dissuasit  Franciscus  Daniel  Pastorius  suo 
Fratri  Augustino  Adamo,  weillen  Er  in  der  that  befinde  Das 
solch  Studium  nichts  anders  seye  als  Ein  Lusus  de  alieno  corio, 
oder  wie  es  Die  Heylige  Schrifft  nennet:  Fine  kunst  die  Hader 
zwischen  Briidern  anrichtet,  welches  Dem  Herrn  ein  Grewel  ist.^ 


'  In  his  "Additamenta"  {Res  Propriae,  p.  12)  he  gives  the  following  varia- 
tion of  this  account : 

"25  Nov.  reiste  ich  nach  Niirnberg,  u.  den  29.  nach  Winsheim,  woselbst 
ein  pferd  hielt  u.  auff  der  Wurst  unter  den  [des?]  lands  Reichs  freyem  Adel 
herum  ritt." 

'  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  223. 

*  Born  Aug.  5,  1682  (Itinerarium  of  M.  A.  P.,  p.  137  b). 

'Cf.  "Schatz-Kammer"  {Prognosticon,  p.  343  a). 


262  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  ' 

Although  Pastorius  does  not  say  in  what  respect  his  law  prac- 
tice was  a  "work  for  Repentence,"  we  have  the  explanation  in  his 
father's  words,  that  Franciscus  considered  the  law :  "Ein  Lusus 
de  alieno  corio"  (a  game  at  another's  expense).  It  is  then  safe 
to  conclude  that  the  methods  pursued  in  the  practice  and  perhaps 
also  the  unpleasant  associations  into  which  the  practice  brought 
him,  were  not  such  as  he  could  harmonize  with  his  best  profes- 
sional ideals.  Indeed  it  would  seem  that  Pastorius  even  at  this 
early  period  exhibited  pietistic  inclinations,  which  explain  his 
strong  sympathies  with  the  religious  views  of  Spener  and  his  asso- 
ciates in  Frankfurt,  and  may  indeed  furnisjl  a  motive  of  his  going 
thither. 

The  passage  cited  above  from  the  Beehive  indicates  also  the 
character  of  his  clients  in  the  Windsheim  period  and  the  territory 
and  manner  of  his  practice.  The  clients  were  the  landed  gentry, 
some  of  whose  members  he  may  have  known  at  the  Gymnasium 
in  Windsheim  or  at  the  University  of  Altdorf  or  other  universi- 
ties during  his  student  years.  It  is  quite  likely  that  his  practice 
was  confined  for  the  most  part  to  the  gentry  owning  estates  in 
the  villages  under  the  jurisdiction  of  Windsheim  and  that  "march- 
ing from  one  Nobleman's  house  in  the  Province  unto  the  other" 
is  to  be  understood  in  this  more  limited  sense  of  "Province"  as 
judiciary  district.  Naturally  his  business  might  occasionally  take 
him  beyond  the  immediate  jurisdiction  of  Windsheim.  This 
saddlebag  practice  of  law  affords  us  an  interesting  glimpse  into 
the  primitive  conditions  of  life  of  the  country  lawyer  in  Germany 
in  the  second  half  of  the  seventeenth  century.  It  gave  the  young 
jurist,  the  future  founder  of  the  first  German  colony  in  Pennsyl- 
vania, a  foretaste  of  pioneering,  which  must  have  stood  him  in 
good  stead  afterwards  in  the  primitive  conditions  of  early  Ger- 
mantown. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  263 

In  Frank furt-on-the-Main. 

After  some  two  years  and  a  half  of  practice  in  Windsheim. 
Pastorius  decided  to  seek  a  wider  and  more  congenial  field  of 
labor.  It  is  not  necessary  to  suppose  he  was  unsuccessful  in  his 
Windsheim  practice,  but  rather  desirous  of  a  more  agreeable 
social  and  religious  atmosphere.  This  is  apparent  from  the  fact 
that  he  sought  and  followed  the  advice  of  his  good  and  pious 
friend,  Dr.  Horb,  as  he  tells  us  in  his  Genealogical  Sketch : 

"Ano  1679.  the  24th  of  April  J  went  (by  persuasion  of  Dr. 
Horb,^  a  godly  Man  &  good  Friend  of  mine,)  to  Franckfort  upon 
the  Meyn,  where  J  still  plaid  the  Lawyer  &  kepf^  [gave  or  held] 
Collegia  privata  Juris  to  some  young  Patricijs  of  the  sd  City, 
having  my  Lodging  for  a  while  with  Dr.  Schutz,  and  then  with 
an  old  &  merry-hearted  Gentleman  call'd  Juncker  Fichard,  as 
likewise  good  Opportunity  to  see  Worms,  Manheim,  Speyer  & 
other  places  of  the  Neighbourhood."^ 

This  information  is  supplemented  in  the  "Additamenta"  by 
the  further  details,  that  Pastorius  after  his  arrival  first  took  his 
meals  in  Frankfurt  with  the  notary.  Christian  Fenda  (Fende  or 
Fend),  in  the  Saalhof  and  his  lodgings  with  Captain  Daniel  Reiie- 
page  and  taught  some  young  students  the  Institutes,  finally  going 
to  Junker  Fichard  for  both  lodging  and  meals.^ 

The  Dr.  Horb  here  referred  to  was  the  Johannes  Henricus 
Horbius,  to  whom  Pastorius'  father,  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius, 
dedicated  the  following  anagram : 


*  The  proper  form,  to  judge  from  the  Latin  "Horbius,"  would  be  "Horbe." 
^  A  Germanism  for  gave.     See  the  note  on  the  same  word,  Chap.  II.  It 

IS,  possible,  however,  that  Pastorius  was  employing  the  old  use  of  keep,  as  in 
"keep  kirk,"  etc.     (Cf.  Century  Dictionary,  sub  verbo.)   William  Penn  in  his 
Journal  uses  keep  in  a  sense  similar  to  this  in  saying  that  the  General  Meeting 
was  "to  be  kept"  in  such  a  week. 
*Cf.  Beehive,  p.  223, 

•  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  12 : 

"1679.  24.  April  reiste  ich  auff  Horbij  anrathen  nach  Franckfurt,  hatt  den 
Tisch  bey  Notario  Christian  Fenden  im  Saalhof,  mein  logiment  bey  Capitain 
Daniel  Renepage,  &c.  hielt  einigen  Jungen  Studiosis  Collegia  Instit.  bisz^^zu 
Juncker  Fichard  ins  Haus  u.  an  den  Tisch  kam,  woselbst  auch  verblieben." 


264  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

lOANNES  HENRICVS  HORBIVS. 

Anagramma 

INI,  VERBO  CVRES  INSANOS 
CHARVS  INES  lESV,  NON  ORBI 
HIC  RESONA  INNISVS  VERBO 
EN  SACRI  VERBI  SONO  VNIS 
I,  RESONANS  VINCIS  VERBO. 

Quid  canis  est  mutus  domui?   quid  csecus  Ouili 

Pastor?    nonne  Ouibus  deperitura  salus? 
Mentibus  segroti  languemus,  opemque  precamur 

Sed  qui  nos  curet  nemo  Machaon  est 
Prosper  ini,  pie  Serue  Dei  verboque  potenti 

Insanos  cures  mentis  opemque  feras 
Non  Orbi  sed  charus  ines  tu  totus  lESV, 

Hinc,  en  inis  Verbi  Charus  adusque  sano. 
Ssepius  hie  resona,  tardantes  pelle,  moneque 

Inissus  Verbo,  spandeo  Victor  eris. 
I  resonans  vincis  diuino  pectora  Verbo 

Instar  id  est  penetrans  ancipitis  gladij 
Quamuis  dissideant  animi,  mundanaque  tractent 

En  sacri  Verbi  tu  vnis  adusque  sono 
Perge  bonis  auibus  fac  fructus  undique  multos 

Donee  conspicias  Horrea  plena  Dei. 
Effice  ut  sethereo  cuncti  iungamur  amore 

Fiat  et  vnus  amor  lesus  Homoque  simul.^^ 

In  Dr.  Herb  we  have  a  most  important  link  between  Pasto- 
rius and  the  Frankfurt  Pietists.  Dr.  Herb  was  an  intimate  mem- 
ber of  this  circle  of  enthusiasts,  who  gathered  around  Dr.  Spener, 
and  was  closely  related  to  Spener,  having  married  his  sister. 

Johann  Heinrich  Horb  (or  Horbe,  Lat.  Horbius)  was  born 
in  Colmar,  Alsatia,  June  11,  1645.  In  1661  he  entered  the  Uni- 
versity of  Strassburg,  taking  his  Master's  degree  in  1664.  His 
teachers  here  were  Balthasar  Bebel,  Johann  Konrad  Dannbauer 
(both  rigid  Lutherans),  Philipp  Jacob  Spener,  the  Pietist,  who 
had  returned  to  Strassburg  in  1663,  and  Johann  Heinrich  Bock- 
ler,  the  historian,  with  whom  Pastorius  studied  Public  Law  and 


Cf.  Itinerarium,  p.  83  a  &  b. 


# 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  265 

who  died  in  the  midst  of  a  course  on  Lampadius,  before  Pastorius 
left  Strassburg  in  1672.^^  Horb  then  attended  the  universities  of 
Jena,  Leipzig,  Wittenberg,  Helmstadt  and  Kiel,  spending  some 
time  in  Leipzig  as  "Assessor  of  the  Philosophical  Faculty."  In 
1669-1670  Horb  accompanied  Johann  Sebastian  Miiller,  of  Leip- 
zig, and  others  as  tutor  (Hofmeister)  on  a  journey  to  Holland, 
England  and  France.  In  Utrecht  he  met  Justus  Theodor  von 
Miinchhausen,  of  Hamburg,  and  made  arrangements  to  accom- 
pany him  in  France,  a  transaction  which  resulted  in  great  dis- 
aster to  Horb  and  aided  not  a  little  in  intensifying  his  persecution 
by  the  Orthodox  Theologians.  In  1671  Horb  returned  from 
Paris  to  Strassburg,  where  he  became  docent  at  the  university 
while  Pastorius  was  there  as  a  student.  Soon  afterwards  Horb 
was  appointed  by  the  Palzgraves  by-the-Rhine  as  Court  Preacher 
in  Bischweiler  and  later  transferred  to  Trarbach-on-the-Mosel, 
where  he  remained  till  his  suspension  because  of  persecution  in 
1678.  He  had  married  Spener's  sister,  Sophie  Cacilia,  in  the  year 
1671,  and  openly  allied  himself  with  the  Pietistic  party  by  defend- 
ing the  doctrines  of  Spener's  Pia  Desideria.  In  1679  he  was 
called  as  superintendent  and  pastor  to  Windsheim.  where  Pasto- 
rius was  then  practicing  law  and  his  father,  Melchior  Adam  Pa- 
storius, was  Burgomaster.  Here  Horb  was  attacked  savagely  by 
Georg  Konrad  Dilfeld,^^  Deacon  of  Nordhausen,  for  sharing 
Spener's  views  of  the  education  of  theologians.  In  1684,  in  spite 
of  strong  opposition,  he  was  elected  Chief  Pastor  of  St.  Nicholas 
Church  in  Hamburg.  But  having  circulated  unwittingly,  as  it 
seems,  a  German  translation  of  a  pamphlet  by  Peter  Poiret  among 
his  congregation,  he  was  bitterly  assailed  by  Johann  Friedrich 
Mayer  and  others,  and  finally  forced  to  leave  his  charge  in  1693 
and  seek  refuge  in  Schleems.  His  health  broke,  and  he  died  in 
1694,  a  martyr  to  the  cause  of  Pietism. 


Cf.  Chap.  II  of  this  work. 
'In  a  work  entitled  Theosophia  Horbio-Spcneriana  [Strassburg],  1679. 


266  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Thus,  in  the  person  of  Dr.  Horb,  we  have  established  the 
connection  between  Spener,  the  leader  of  the  Pietistic  movement 
in  Frankfurt,  and  Windsheim,  Pastorius'  home,  and  found  a  nat- 
ural explanation  for  Pastorius'  introduction  to  Spener  and  his 
immediate  entrance  into  the  Pietistic  circle  in  the  Saalhof  at 
Frankfurt.  It  is  not  improbable  that  Pastorius  knew  Horb  even 
in  the  Strassburg  days.  This  would  seem  to  be  corroborated  by 
Pastorius'  statement  that  he  left  Windsheim  to  go  to  Frankfurt 
"by  persuasion  of  Dr.  Horb,  a  godly  Man  and  good  Friend  of 
mine."  This  language  seems  to  imply  a  longer  acquaintance  and 
friendship  than  that  which  could  have  been  formed  with  Dr.  Horb 
in  Windsheim  between  January,  1679,  the  date  of  Horb's  arrival 
in  Windsheim,  and  April  24,  1679,  the  date  of  Pastorius'  depart- 
ure for  Frankfurt. 

It  now  requires  no  further  explanation  how  Pastorius  fell  in 
with  the  Pietists.  Dr.  Horb,  as  the  brother-in-law  of  Dr.  Spe- 
ner, naturally  gave  Pastorius  a  personal  introduction  to  the  great 
Pietist  in  Frankfurt.  Naturally,  too,  Pastorius  found  his  way 
to  the  Saalhof,  the  great  assembling  place  of  the  Pietists,  and  took 
lodgings  with  Dr.  Schiitz,^^  one  of  the  Pietists,  who  afterwards 
appears  in  the  records  of  the  Frankfurt  Land  Company. 

While  it  has  been  impossible  to  find  any  record  of  Pastorius' 
law  practice  in  Frankfurt  during  this  early  period,  we  are  for- 
tunate in  having  an  interesting  account  of  at  least  one  case  which 
he  conducted.  Some  four  months  after  his  arrival  in  Frankfurt 
he  found  a  profitable  client  in  the  person  of  a  Jew  by  the  name  of 
Samuel,  as  we  learn  from  the  following: 


"This  is  doubtless  the  Johann  Jacob  Schiitz,  U.  J.  Licent'us,  of  Frank- 
furt, whose  name  with  those  of  Jacob  van  de  Walle,  Daniel  Behaghel  and 
Caspar  Merian  appear  on  the  Power  of  Attorney  given  to  Francis  Daniel 
Pastorius,  April  2,  1685.  (Cf.  S.  W.  Pennypacker,  The  Settlement  of  German 
town,  pp.  80-81.)  The  abbreviation  in  the  Beehive  seems  to  be  Dd.,  not  Dr., 
but  may  be  explained  as  used  for  "Doctorand."  Pastorius  not  infrequently 
writes   this   abbreviation. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  267 

"5.  Sept.  [1679]  wie  audi  1680.  12.  Mart,  und  28  Apr.  vor 
den  Juden  Samuel  zum  Kost  zu  Manheim  am  Churfustl.  Hof 
gewest,  und  reichl.  bezahlt  worden."^^ 

Although  further  details  of  the  case  are  lacking,  we  may 
infer,  first,  that  it  was  one  of  considerable  importance  and,  sec- 
ondly, that  Pastorius  brought  the  matter  to  a  successful  issue. 
This  record  shows  that  he  was  esteemed  highly  enough  to  present 
a  case  before  the  Electoral  Court  at  Mannheim,  which  city  was 
then  in  the  second  period  of  its  prosperity  under  the  renewed  and 
extended  privileges  granted  by  Elector  Karl  Friedrich  in  the 
year  1652. 

It  may  be  inferred  from  another  account  in  the  Res  Propriae, 
that  Pastorius  had  other  professional  commissions  to  neighboring 
cities,  as  he  speaks  of  practicing  a  little  while  giving  private  in- 
struction in  the  Institutes  and  of  having  occasion  to  visit  Worms, 
Mannheim,  Speier,  etc.  At  Speier  he  was  with  Dr.  Fuchs,  March 
22,  1680,^^  as  it  seems  on  his  return  from  Mannheim,  where  he 
had  represented  the  Jew  Samuel  on  the  12th  of  March. 

Thus  the  young  jurist  had  justified  the  confidence  which  the 
Frankfurt  Company  later  imposed  in  him  in  making  him  its  legal 
agent  in  America. 

Travels  with  Johann  Bonaventura  von  Bodeck. 

While  the  years  of  study  at  the  universities  of  Altdorf, 
Strassburg,  Basel  and  Jena  had  been  in  a  sense  a  period  of  travel 
also,  the  education  of  Pastorius  was  incomplete  without  a  journey 
into  some  of  the  lands  with  which  Germany  was  in  closest  cultural 
touch — Holland,  England,  France,  Switzerland  and  Italy.  Many 
young  jurists,  physicians,  theologians,  philosophers  and  poets  took 


**  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  12. 

"  Ano  1679,  24.  Apr.  reisete  ich  nach  Franckfurt  am  Mayn,  hielte  alldar 
cinigen  Studiosis  privat.  collegia  Juris,  u.  practicirte  anbey  ein  wenig.  Da 
daii  gelegenheit  bekam,  Worms,  Manheim,  Speyer  etc  zu  visitiren.  logirte 
vom  I.  Dec.  1679.  bisz  26  Jun.  1680  bey  Juncker  Fichard.  1680.  22.  Mart,  mit 
Dr.  Fuchsen  zu  Speyer  gewest"  {Res.  Propriae,  p.  6). 


268  Francis  Daniel  Pas  tortus 

such  a  journey  on  their  own  account  at  their  own  expense,  while 
others,  like  Horbius  and  Pastorius,  accompanied  some  young 
prince  or  magnate  as  tutor  and  thus  saw  the  world  without  per- 
sonal expense.  The  opportunity  came  to  Pastorius  soon  after  his 
arrival  in  Frankfurt  to  go  on  such  a  journey  with  a  young  noble- 
man Johann  Bonaventura  von  Bodeck.  It  was  the  Pietist,  Dr. 
Spener,  who  recommended  Pastorius  as  tutor  to  von  Bodeck. 
Pastorius  gives  the  following  all  too  brief  account  of  the  journey 
in  his  Genealogical  Sketch : 

"Anno  1680.  the  26th  of  June,  J  upon  the  recommendation 
of  Dr.  Spefier  (that  brave  Patriarch  of  the  Pietists,)  undertook 
to  be  (Hoffmeister  or)  Conductour  &  Guide  to  a  Noble  young 
Spark  called  Johanes  Bonaventura  von  Bodeck  in  his  Travels 
through  Holland,  England,  France,  Switzerland  &c.  &  so  went 
to  Mentz,  where  we  did  meet,  and  happily  perform  our  sd 
Voyage,  as  does  appear  by  a  peculiar  Manuscript  Journal^®  of 
mine  in  8*^  arriving  again  at  Francfort  in  perfect  health  &  Safety, 
the  i8th  of  November  i682."i7 

In  another  account  given  in  the  "Additamenta"^^  we  learn 
something  more  of  the  particulars  of  this  journey.  Pastorius  had 
evidently  met  von  Bodeck  in  Frankfurt  in  the  society  of  Giinterod 
(Giinderode)  and  Lersner,  who  were  the  brothers-in-law  of  von 
Bodeck,  and  with  whom  Pastorius  went  to  Mainz  to  start  on  the 
journey  with  von  Bodeck.  That  Pastorius  was  associated  with 
influential  families  in  Frankfurt  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  he  num- 
bered among  his  friends  members  of  such  distinguished  families 
as  the  Lersners  and  Giinderodes.   The  Lersner  family,  originally 


"  This  Journal  seems  to  be  hopelessly  lost.  All  that  survives  is  a  handful 
of  extracts  in  the  Beehive  (see  further  on). 

"  Cf.  Beehive,  p.  223. 

"  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  12.  The  very  important  passage  is  written  in  Ger- 
man : 

"1680.  26.  Junij  fuhr  ich  mit  Juncker  Giinterod  Juncker  Lcrssner  u.  dero 
Weibern  nach  Maintz,  u.  tratt  als  Hofmeister  mit  derselben  Schwager  Job. 
Bonaventura  von  Bodeck  eine  Reis  an,  welche  in  meinem  Jtincrario  umb- 
standlich  beschrieben." 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  269 

from  Felsburg  in  Niederhessen,  had  become  allied  to  the  patrician 
family  of  Rauschers  in  Frankfurt  in  the  marriage  of  Hermann 
Lersner,  Dr.  Jur.  and  Professor  at  Marburg,  about  the  middle  of 
the  sixteenth  century. 

The  name  of  Pastorius'  patron  on  this  journey  is  clearly 
"Bodeck,"  not  "Rodeck,"  as  it  was  incorrectly  written  by  Fried- 
rich  Kapp  and  Professor  Oswald  Seidensticker,  and  copied  from 
them  in  more  recent  works.  The  mistake  is  due  evidently  to  the 
rather  indistinct  passage  in  the  Beehive,  where  the  initial  "R"  is 
written  so  close  to  the  line  that  it  is  difficult  to  determine  whether 
the  initial  letter  in  this  case  is  "R"  or  "B."  The  other  occurrences 
of  the  name  in  the  Beehive,  and  particularly  in  the  Res  Propriae, 
however,  clearly  show  the  form  to  be  "Bodeck."  The  Wagner 
copy  of  the  Res  Propriae,  made  about  1850  and  now  found  in  the 
Archives  of  the  German  Society  of  Pennsylvania,  has  "Bodeck," 
not  "Rodeck."  Furthermore,  it  has  been  impossible  to  find  the 
name  "Rodeck"  in  any  of  the  genealogical  or  heraldic  sources, 
while  the  name  "Bodeck"  is  much  in  evidence. 

This  Johann  Bonaventura  Bodeck  or  "von  Bodeck,"  as  Pa- 
storius calls  him,  was  doubtless  a  member  of  the  family  of  Bodeck 
von  (or  zu)  Ellgau,  which  appears  in  the  rolls  of  Swiss  and  Rhen- 
ish nobility  as  early  as  the  sixteenth  century,  with  a  coat-of-arms 
dating  back,  as  it  appears,  as  early  as  1 584  at  least.  The  Bbdecks 
were  barons  of  the  Holy  Roman  Empire  after  September  7,  1706. 
The  coat-of-arms  is  described  as  follows,  and  all  heraldic  authori- 
ties seem  to  agree  in  this  description.^^ 

"A  quartered  shield ;  i  and  4  contain  a  cross  of  gold  in  a  field 
of  blue ;  2  and  3  a  red  lion  in  a  field  of  gold ;  the  helmet  is  bustled, 


"  Cf.  particularly  the  following : 

Sibenmachers  grosses  Allgemeines  Wappenbuch  *  *  *  von  Dr.  Otto  Titan 
von  Hefner.  Niirnberg,  1856. 

Dictionaire  de  la  Noblesse  *  *  *  par  De  la  Chenaye-Debois  et  Badier. 
Paris,  1863. 

Armorial  General  precede  d'un  Dictionaire  des  Terntes  du  Blason  par  J. 
B.  Rietstapf.  Gouda.  G.  B.  van  Goor  Zonen,  1887. 


270  Fransis  Daniel  Pastorius 

having  the  right  in  blue  and  gold  and  the  left  in  red  and  gold, 
and  supporting  a  lion  rampant,  crossed  with  alternate  blue  and 
gold."20 

A  probable  corroboration  of  the  identity  of  Johann  Bona- 
ventura  von  Bodeck's  family  with  the  Bodecks  of  Ellgau  is  found 
in  the  survival  of  the  name  "Bonaventura"  in  the  latter  family 
in  recent  times,  as  for  example  in  the  case  of  Karl  Maximilian 
Maria  Bonaventura  Bodeck,  born  November  24,  1849,  son  of 
Georg  Karl  Joseph  Freiherr  Bodeck  von  Ellgau  and  his  spouse, 
Euphenia  Antonia  Maria  Eugenia  Franzisca  Huberta. 

In  addition  to  the  Swiss  and  Rhenish  branches  of  the  family 
of  Bodeck  von  Ellgau,  there  is  an  Austrian  branch  Bodeck  von 
Marwitz.  Both  branches  have  the  same  coat-of-arms.  Whether 
Hermann  Bodeck,  the  Gallician  Hebraist  (1820-1880),  and  Jacob 
Bodeck  of  Lemberg  (died  at  Lemberg,  1856), were  connected 
with  the  Austrian  branch, ^^  or  have  their  name  directly  from 
Hebrew  sources,  I  have  not  ascertained. 

Johann  Bonaventura  von  Bodeck  seems  to  have  escaped  the 
biographical  dictionaries  and  we  must  be  content  with  the  laconic 
characterization  which  Pastorius  gives  of  him  in  the  Beehive, 
where  he  describes  him  as  "a  Noble  young  Spark." 

As  the  Bodeck  family  of  Ellgau  was  Catholic, ^^  it  is  quite 
safe  to  assume  that  Johann  Bonaventura  was  likewise  Catholic. 
It  was  evidently  through  his  connection  with  Giinderode  and 
Lersner^^  in  Frankfurt  (Pastorius  calls  him  their  brother-in-law) 
that  he  heard  of  Pastorius.    The  fact  that  there  was  a  difference 


*°Cf.  Gothaisches  genealogisches  Taschenbuch  der  freilierrlichen  H'duser 
cuf  das  1857  w.  1858. 

"■  A  sketch  of  both  of  these  Hebrew  scholars  may  be  found  in  the  Jezvish 
Encyclopedia,  sub  nom.  The  name  Bodeck  has  representatives  in  Philadelphia, 
but  I  have  been  unable  to  trace  it  to  its  European  connections. 

"  Cf.  Gothaisches  Genealogisches  Taschenbuch  der  freiherrlichen  Familien 
(1858). 

"  Lersncr  is  one  of  those  mentioned  by  Pastorious  in  the  Pietistic  group 
at  the  Saalhof  and  "bynamed    the  Pious"   (cf.  Beehive,  p.  223). 


I'rancis  Daniel  Pastorius  271 

of  confession  may  have  been  offset  by  Pastorius'  liberality  of 
spirit  and  particularly  by  the  fact  that  his  family  too  had  formerly 
been  Catholic. 

The  itinerary  of  the  journey  with  Bodeck  included  Holland, 
England,  France,  Switzerland  and  a  part  of  Upper  Germany. 
Pastorius,  as  we  have  seen,  accompanied  Giinderode  and  Lersner 
and  their  wives  to  Mainz,  and  there,  as  it  seems,  joined  von 
Bodeck.  The  journey  lasted  from  Jiune  26,  1680,  till  November 
18,  1682,  when  they  both  returned  safe  and  sound  to  Frankfurt.^'* 
It  is  unfortunate  that  the  Itinerarium,  which  Pastorius  says  he 
wrote  of  his  journey,  has  been  lost.  It  woiuld,  no  doubt,  have 
furnished  much  important  information  as  to  what  they  did  and 
saw.  In  lieu  of  the  original  we  must  content  ourselves  with  some 
extracts  which  he  incorporated  later  in  the  Beehive.  While  these 
extracts  are  mere  scraps,  they  will  nevertheless  give  us  some  no- 
tion of  the  bent  of  Pastorius'  mind  and  the  character  of  the  ob- 
servations made  at  this  period  of  his  life.  Although  the  items 
noted  seem  pedantic  and  trite  to  ais,  they  were  fresh  and  interest- 
ing to  the  traveling  scholar  of  pietistic  inclinations  in  the  years 
1 680 1 682. 

Tantum  Quantum,  or  A  Few  Jnscriptions,  gathered  out  of  my 

own  Itinerary. 
[On  preceding  page:] 

The  Heads  of  the  following  Jnscriptions:  i.  Sun-dials.  2. 
Clock-dials  &  Bells.  3.  Steeple-houses,  Altars,  Organs,  Jmages, 
&c.  4.  Cloisters  &  Cells.  5.  Hospitals,  Jnfirmaries,  &c.  6. 
Schools.  7.  Libraries.  8.  Senate  houses,  &  Guild  halls.  9.  Bride- 
wells. 10.  Prisons.  11.  Armouries  or  Magazins  for  Weapons. 
12  Utensils  of  war.  Standards,  &  the  like.  13.  Mints,  &  Treas- 
ure-houses. 14.  Burses  or  Royal  Exchanges  for  merchants  to 
meet  in.     15.  Palaces.     16.  Tennis-Courts,  Bowling-greens,  &c. 


^  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  223 : 

"Anno  1680.  26.  Jun.  fuhr  ich  nacher  Maintz,  und  that  von  daraus  mit 
Johan  Bonaventura  von  Bodeck  als  dessen  Hofmeister  eine  Reis  durch  Hol- 
land, Engelland,  Franckreich,  Schweitz  u.  einen  Strich  Hochteutschlands ; 
kamen  beede  aiio  82.   18  Nov.  wieder  frisch  u.  gesund  nach  Franckfurt." 


272  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

17.  Market  places,  Shambles,  &c.  18.  Apothecary-Shops.  19. 
Jnns  and  Ordinaries.  20.  Private  Dwelling-houses.  21.  Doors, 
Chimneys,  Tables,  &c.  22.  Gardens.  23.  Fountains.  24.  Ships. 
25.  Highways.  26.  Bridges.  27.  Monuments.  28.  Statues.  29. 
Cities  &  Fortresses.  30.  Fenster-Schrifften.  31.  Stam-Buch-An- 
denck-Spriich.  32.  A  Miscellaneous  Appendix.  33.  Privy  houses. 
Post  num.  20.  Seals.    Post  num.  6.  Arms  or  Coat  of  arms. 

Tantum  Quantum,  or  A  Fevv^  Jnscriptions,  gathered  out  oi  my 

own  Itinerary. 

I.  Over,  under  &  about  Sun-Dials  J  observed  the  Follow^ing: 

Sicut  umbra  dies  nostri.  Job.  8.  Dies  nostri  sicut  umura 
praetereunt.  Psal.  143.  Quasi  umbra  transeunt  qui  non  timent 
faciem  Domini.  Eccles.  8.  A  Solis  ortu  usq'  ad  occasum  laude- 
tur  Nomen  Domini.  Psal.  112.  Oportet  operari  dum  dies  est 
Joh.  9.  Ambulate  dum  lucem  habetis  Joh.  12.  Redimentes  tem- 
pus  quoniam  dies  mali.  Eph.  5.  Vigilate,  quia  nescitis  diem  neq' 
horam.  Matt.  25.  Qua  hora  non  putabitis  Filius  hominis  veniet. 
Luke.  12.  Non  accidat  Sol  super  Jracundiam  vestram.  Eph.  4. 
Ecce  mensurabiles  posuisti  dies  meos.  Psal.  38.  Verum  est 
Testimonium  ejus.  Joh.  19.  Solem  quis  dicere  falsum  audeat? 
Dies  mei  sicut  umbra  declinaverunt.     Psal.  102. 

Ut  radius  sic  Vita  fluit,  dum  stare  videtur.  Tempus  ut 
umbra  fugit.  Vita  fugit  velut  umbra.  Speculum  Vitse  humanae. 
Hominis  sic  Vita  caduca.  Umbra  transitus  est  Tempus  nostrum. 
Omnes  sic  transimus.  Cite  pede  labitur  aetas.  More  fluentis 
aquae.  Nee  quae  praeterijt  hora  redire  potest.  Sic  Vita,  sic 
Umbra. 

Tempora  labuntur,  tacitis  senescim^us  annis.  Umbra  fugit, 
mortemq'  vocat;  Vigilemus  amici.  Quota  est  Vitse?  Fluit  irre- 
parabile  Tempus.  Vive  memor  Lethi,  fugit  hora,  Ut  cuspis,  sic 
Vita  fugit.  Sic  tua  Vita  fluit.  Progreditur  fugiens  et  semper 
vertitur  hora,  Vita  simul.  fugiens  semel  vertitur  absq'  reverti. 
Respice  Finem !  Ut  tibi  Sol  radijs  labentia  tempora  signat,  Sic 
Sol  Justitiae  signet  (  :&  acta  regat.)  ad  astra  viam.  Quaeritur 
ostendat  radius  quam  pensilis  horam?  Hora  est  sollicita  quaerere 
mente  Deum.  Sera  nimis  Vita  est  crastina,  Vive  hodie.  Tota 
Vita  dies  unus  est.  Utere  non  tardo  labitur  ilia  pede.  Absq' 
mora  fugit  hora.  Jndice  me  quoties  fugientes  suspicis  horas,  Te 
toties  gressu  mors  propiore  premit.  Transvolat  umbra  levis, 
neq'  scit  fugitiva  reverte.  Nostra  simul  proprans  Vita  caduca 
fugit.  Hac  licet  exili  non  est  lethalior  umbra,  Nam  quicquid  fugitans 
attigit  Jnterijt.    Sic,  sic  translaberis  ipse.     Ipse  sic  excedis  Vit^, 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  273 

Sensim,  sine  Sensu.  PEDETENTIM.  Aeternitati  Provide, 
Tempus  fugit.  Rapit  hora  diem.  Christe,  tui  sincerus  amor 
mihi  crescit  in  horas.  Me  Sol,  vos  umbra  regit.  Nos  brevis 
hora  Parit,  nos  brevis  hora  Rapit.  Viventi  mors  obrepit  Juveniq' 
Senectus  horaq'  dum  quota  est?  Quseritur  hora  fugit.  Res  dam- 
nosa  malis  tempus  consumere  rebus,  Expendas  igitur  quod  tibi 
nunc  superest. 

Imposuit  Dominus  domini,  testarer  ut  horas.  Jnterpres  Soils, 
horas  et  Tempora  dico.  Nos  docet ;  atq'  nocet  vobis,  qui  fallere 
Tempus  Vultis,  vos  ipsos  fallitis  Jnsipidi.  Ora  ne  Te  decipiat 
hora.  Without  Time  we  can  do  nothing  in  this  present  World. 
Col  empo  e  I'hora  tutto  s'adopra.  Non  nisi  coelesti  radio.  Solius 
praesentia  Solis.     Sum  sine  Sole  nihil. 

Wann  die  Sonne  gegen  wartig,  so  ist  auch  der  Zeiger  fertig. 
Quod  scio,  tu  nescis,  nisi  Sol  conspexerit  sedes. 

Nisi  Sol  (  :  illuminet  sedes  :  )  splendescat  in  orbe.  Donee 
optata  veniat.  t  Virtus  sine  Cruce  evanescit  ut  umbra.  Nulla 
dies  sine  linea.  Ordinatione  Tua  perseverat  dies.  Nonne  duo- 
decim  horse  sunt  dici?  Joh.  xi.  Peveunt  et  Jmputantur.  Plures 
Labori  quam  Otio.  Ex  his  mors  eligit  unam.  Hinc  venit  ultima 
cunctis.  Le  Jour  est  assure,  mais  I'heure  ne  Test  pas.  Quis  scit, 
an  extremam  Stilus  hie  ( :  mihi  :)  tibi  denotet  horam?  Ultima 
quse  sit?  Hora  cuiq'  sua  est;  Fors  erit  ista  Tua.  Quse  tua  sit, 
nescis. 

La  Mort  tue  en  toute  heure  &  en  tout  lieu.  Jnstat  tibi  forte 
suprema?  Ultima  forsan  erit?  "En  regardent  quelle  heure  il  est, 
Pense  ala  Tienne,  &  t'y  tiens  prest. 

Quota  sit  hora  vides,  sed  quse  sit  suma  tacebo.  Jsta  patet, 
postrema  latet.  Latet  ultima  Vitse !  Hie  extrema  vides  extremse 
signa  diei,  Fac  bona  sit  prsesens,  ultima  ne  mala  sit.  Sol  tibi  per 
Speculum  fugientes  indicat  horas,  Jndicat  et  Speculum  quod  Specu- 
latorabit.  Spiegeluhr.  Vita  fugit,  fugit  umbra  tamen  reditura ;  sed 
ilia  quam  traducis  homo  non  reditura  fugit.  Mane.  Nos  pulchram 
Phoebi  faciem  surgentis  Eoo  [  ?]  cernimus,  Antipodes  posteriora 
vident.  Vespere  Sol  abiens  paulum  Lucis  post  terga  relictse  Mon- 
strat,  uti  Moysi  posteriora  Deus.  Beatus  qui  horam  Mortis  suse 
semper  ante  oculos  habet  &  ad  moriendum  quotidie  se  disponit.  Th : 
Kemp. 

I.  Aspicis  hie  primas  Orientis  Luminis  horas,  Nescius  occi- 
dui  sera  quid  ferat.  Dum  radius  lento  cursu  versatur  in  orbem 
vertice  prsscipiti  Tempora  nostra  vorat.  Dum  vitse  numero 
menses  securus  &  anos,  Jncipit  hie  horas  mors  numerare  meas. 
Disce  novum  ancupium  [?],  qui  discis  tempora  sunt  hie  Mors 
andeps  [  ?]  horse  retia,  prseda  homines. 


274 


Fraticis  Daniel  Pastorius 


2.  Filia  sum  Solis,  peperit  me  ferrea  mater;  hie  nigra  stat 
genetrix,  albus  in  Axe  pater.  Deferor  in  partes  Jndex  utriusq' 
nigranti  ore  sequor  matrem,  mobilitate  patrem.  Quae  modo 
pterijt,  rursus  eras  hora  redibit,  si  tua  pprsetereat  vita,  redire 
nequit.  Dum  radios  cernis  celeres  umbrasq'  fugaces,  Opta  per- 
petuum  posse  videre  diem. 

3.  Mortales  hsec  umbra  docet  nos  esse  fugaces,  Et  nostri 
fugiunt  ut  fugit  umbra  dies.  Quid  spem  vivendi  longos  jacula- 
mur  in  annos?  heu  celeri  properat  mors  inopina  pede,  Linea 
nostrarum  si  Mors  est  ultima  rerum,  hie  etiam  nostrae  linea 
mortis  erit.  Nee  suspecta  tamen  tibi  sola  sit  ultima,  Ferre  ciuli- 
bet  extrema  linea  prima  potest. 

Diese  Drey  letztere  stehen  in  der  Corthause  zu  Regenspurg 
an  drey  absonderlichen  Sonen  Uhren  daselbst  im  Hof.  Im  Jesu- 
iter  Collegio  zu  Lion  aber  steht  bey  3.  nebeneinander  gefiigten 
Sonnen  weisern :  Et  hi  tres  unum  sunt.  Item  Sic  Neovillaei 
referunt  se  Sidera  Fratres.  Bey  einem  andern  alldar :  Non 
Justior  alter.  Und  noch  bey  einem  auff  einer  Weltkugel,  welche 
der  Atlas  tragt:  Urbis  fata  stylo  quis  meliore  notet?  Derglei- 
chen  sind  in  meinem  Jtinerario  mehr  die  anher  zu  iiberschreiben 
der  Zeit  u.  des  papiers  nicht  wehrt. 

The  following  is  an  abstract  of  the  more  interesting  matter 
under  the  other  headings  in  the  Beehive. 

.  Over  and  under  Clock-Dials:  Description  of  the  clock  at 
Lyons  in  which  the  cock  crows  twice  every  hour  after  having 
flapped  his  wings  twice.  After  this  the  angel  Gabriel  appears  and 
salutes  Mary,  the  Holy  Ghost  comes  down  in  the  form  of  a  dove. 

The  clock  of  the  tower  of  Notre  Dame  at  Paris  has  a  cir- 
cumference of  25  feet  and  three  thumbs,  is  9  feet  high  and  nine 
thumbs  thick,  weighs  31,000  lbs.,  and  the  clapper  weighs  600  lbs. 
It  was  cast  on  the  ground  November  31,  [sic]  1681,  and  was 
named  Emmanuel  by  permission  of  the  king  and  queen.  Then 
follows  the  Latin  legend. 

At  Steeple-houses,  Altars,  Organs,  Images,  etc. :  Inscrip- 
tions of  St.  Saturnini  Church  in  Toulouse  and  similar  one  in  the 
Lateran  in  Rome;  of  the  Miinster  in  Basel,  of  the  old  church  in 
Delft,  of  the  cathedral  at  Narbonne.  Description  and  inscriptions 
of  Carmelite  Cloister  in  Frankfurt,  Wtirzburg,  St.  Hilaire  in 
Paris,  St.  Jacobs  (James)  in  Hamburg,  the  Capucin  Monastery 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  275 

of  Fauxbourg  St.  Jacques,  Paris,  the  crown  which  Queen  Chris- 
tina devoted  to  the  Virgin  Mary  at  Loreto,  the  Templum  Major 
in  Costniz. 

Cloisters  and  Cells:  References  to  Rochelle,  Paris,  Chapter 
House  of  the  York  Munster, 

(Ut  Rosa  Flos  Florum, 

Sic  est  Domus  ista  Domorum.) 

Regensburg,  Paris,  Avignon,  Lyons. 

Hospitals,  Infirmaries,  &c. :  Mention  of  Toulon,  Oppeln  (Si- 
lesia), Wiirzburg,  Amsterdam. 

Schools :  Mottos  from  the  Schola  Mariana  in  Danzig,  from 
the  school  in  Amsterdam,  from  St.  Jacobs  Schule  in  Hamburg, 
and  of  Basel.     St.  Jacobs  has  the  following: 

"Es  meint  einjede  Frau, 
Jhr  kind  das  sey  ein  Pfau." 

also :  "Arbeit  Zwang  und  Lehren 

bringt  Kinder  offt  zu  Ehren." 

Arms :  Inscriptions  from  the  arms  of  Geneva,  and  reference 
to  a  more  detailed  account  in  his  Itinerarium,  p.  603,  which 
shows  that  his  Journal  or  Itinerary  must  have  been  a  very  exten- 
sive work. 

Libraries :  He  gives  inscriptions  of  St.  Jacobs  in  Hamburg, 
of  University  College  in  Oxford,  the  Vatican  in  Rome  and  the 
Capucin  Monastery  in  Orleans,  reproducing  the  long  inscription 
of  Oxford  which  mentions  John  Selden,  John  Vaughan  and  Mat- 
thew Hale. 

Senate-houses  &  Guild-halls:  Mention  of  Augsburg,  Haer- 
lem,  Baden  in  Ergau,  the  Hague,  Geneva,  Regensburg,  the  Curia 
in  Rome. 

Prisons :  Prison  de  I'Abbaye  S.  Germain :  "Justitia  elevat 
Gentem.     Prov.  xiiii,"  only  one  mentioned. 

Armories,  or  Magasins  for  zueapons:  Mention  of  Armory 
in  Augsburg,  Toulouse,  Avignon,  Venice,  etc. 


276  Francis  Daniel  Pas  tortus 

Utensils  of  War:  Standards  in  London  Tower,  with  the 
following  remark : 

"Zu  London  im  Towr  auff  einem  hiiltzern  mit  Eisenfarb 
iiberstrichenem  geschiitz,  wormit  die  Engelland  einst  eine  statt  in 
Franckreich  erschreckt,  dasz  sie  sich  iibergab:  Marte  quid  opus 
est  cui  Minerva  non  deest?" 

References  to  inscriptions  on  famous  pieces  of  artillery  in 
Schaffhausen,  Ulm,  Naples,  Geneva  and  Munich.  The  latter  is 
particularly  interesting : 

"Jch  heiss  der  Hahn, 

Wann  ich  krah  fliht  der  Mafi." 

Treasure-houses,  Mints,  Coins,  etc. :  Those  of  Dort  and  Ant- 
werp, Braunschweig  and  Liineburg  noted.  The  latter  is  brief 
and  to  the  point:  "Rerum  Nervus  Pecunia."  An  elaborate  de- 
scription is  given  of  Cromwell's  coin  with  the  motto :  "Pax  quse- 
ritur  Bello;"  also  of  the  silver  coin  of  Bologna  with  the  words: 
"Bononia  Mater  Studiorum;"  and  the  copper  with  the  words: 
"Bononia  docet;"  also  the  motto  of  Queen  Elizabeth's  coin  cele- 
brating the  defeat  of  the  Armada:  "Afflavit  Deus,  &  dissipan- 
tur." 

Burses  or  Royal  Exchanges:  Inscriptions  from  the  new 
Bourse  in  Antwerp  and  of  the  Bourse  in  Bordeaux. 

Palaces:  Inscription  from  Rome,  the  Schloss  in  Mainz, 
Madrit  near  Paris :  "Hodie  mihi  Cras  tibi ;"  the  papal  residence 
at  Avignon,  the  Louvre  in  Paris.  In  the  palace  at  Bologna: 
"Unanimitas  stabile  firmamentum." 

Private  Dwelling-houses:    At  Niirnberg  a  house  has  this 

motto : 

"Es  gonn  mir  einer  was  er  will. 

So  geb'  ihm  Gott  dreymal  so  viel." 

In  Basel : 

Click  harin,  Unglick  hinaus ; 

Pfauenberg  heiszt  disz  Haus." 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  277 

In  Amsterdam : 

"Si  Deus  pro  Nobis,  Quis  contra  Nobis?" 

In  Lyons: 

"L'on  n'a  rien  sans  peine." 

"Avise  toy  premier  que  moy." 

"Non  domo  Dominus,  sed  Domino  domus." 

At  Paris: 

"Jn  Fundulo,  sed  avito." 
"Parva  domus,  sed  arnica  bonis,  procul  este  profani; 
Amplior  in  Coelo  domus  est  &  amenior    hortus." 

"Within  this  place 

Lives  Dr.  Case." 

Fountains:  In  front  of  Notre  Dame  in  Paris,  St.  Germain. 
Fontaine  de  Birague,  at  Lyons,  Rome,  etc. 

Bridges,  etc. :  Mention  of  Pont  Notre  Dame  in  Paris,  Pont 
Neuf  in  Toulouse,  stone  bridge  in  Montaubon  and  especially  the 
Mainbriicke  in  Frankfurt  with  this  inscription : 

"Wer  dieser  Briicken  Freyheit  bricht 
Dem  wird  sein  frefflich  Handt  gericht." 

Statues:  Inscriptions  of  statue  of  Erasmus  in  Rotterdam, 
statue  of  Carolus  I  in  London,  of  the  birth  place  of  Carolus  V  in 
Ghent,  of  Henry  IV  Pont  Neuf,  and  of  Louis  XIII  in  the  Place 
Royale  in  Paris,  etc. 

An  English  traveller  wrote  on  the  wall  in  red  the  following 
in  the  little  birth  chamber  of  Carolus  V : 

"Quern  locus  angustus  nascenti  sufficit,  Orbis  qui  mox  reg- 
nanti  non  satis  amplus  erat?  Sit  licet  angustus  locus  hie,  Angus- 
tior  iste  est,  Jn  quo  defunctus  nunc  jacet  ille,  locus." 

Inscriptions  on  Glass-Windozvs ,  Tohacco-Boxes,  Knives,  etc. : 
Glass : 

"A  fool  did  write  this,  I  confess, 
And  thou  that  read  it,  art  not  less, 
Stulto  me,  stultior  ipse." 


278  Francis  Da^iiel  Pastorius 

Box: 

"Sit  down  &  smoke  and  merry  be, 
And  thank  my  Masters  Courtesie." 

"A  Box  well  filled  is  a  rich  &  plenteous  Store. 

Take  many  Pipes  thereout  at  last  there  is  no  more.' 


Messer : 


"I  am  my  Masters  trusty  Friend, 
If  he  too  oft  me  do  not  lend." 


At  the  side  of  a  bedstead: 

"At  Six  a  Clock  at  night  thou  sayst  thy  work  is  done ; 
Pray,  husband,  say  not  before  the  rising  Sun." 

Inscriptiones  Albi  Amicorum: 

"Ich  gebe  dir  mein  Herz, 
lass  du  mir  deines  hier, 
So  gehet  unter  uns, 
Ein  schoner  Wechsel  fur." 

"Soyez  officieux  a  tous, 

Familier  a  peu, 

&  intime  a  un  seul." 

"Fac  ea  quae  moriens  facta  fuisse  voles." 

"Non  far  male  a  chi  ti  puo  far  peggio." 

Miscellaneous : 

Above  William  Temple's  Picture  or  Image : 

"Servare  modum,  finemq'  tueri,  Naturanq'  sequi." 

Thoughts  of  America. 

The  journey  with  Bodeck  had  afforded  Pastorius  opportunity 
to  see  the  best  culture  of  Western  Europe.  He  had  visited  Hol- 
land, which  through  its  great  contemporaneous  poet,  Vondel  (died 
in  1679),  had  fiurnished  dramatic  models  for  the  German  poet 
Gryphius  and  had  been  the  refuge  of  the  Puritans  and  persecuted 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  279 

Protestants  of  many  lands.     He  had  seen  England,  the  arena  of 
the  great  struggles  for  civil  and  religious  liberty.     He  had  tra- 
versed France,  which  had  long  set  the  fashion  for  German  courts 
and  was  now  in  the  height  of  the  classic  period  of  its  literature 
with  the  great  poets  Corneille,  Moliere  and  Racine.     And  he  had 
looked  out  over  the  summits  of  the  Alps,  the  snowy  seats  of  re- 
publican liberty,  the  land  of  Tell  and  Winkelried.     The  journey 
had  vastly  widened  his  horizon  and  enriched  his  knowledge  of  the 
world.  But  it  had  done  more.  It  had  crystallized  his  philosophy 
of  life.  In  the  rounds  of  festivity  'with  Bodeck  he  had  observed 
the  foibles  and  follies  of  high  life  and  had  come  to  the  firm  con- 
viction that  the  life  of  religious  quiet  and  serious  purpose  is  the 
higher  ideal.     At  two  places  only  in  his  long  journey,  at  Ghent 
and  Cambridge,  had  he  found  men  of  a  spirit  kindred  to  his  own, 
who  lived  in  daily  devotion  to  christian  duty ;  while  on  the  other 
hand,  in  Orleans,  Paris,  Avignon,  Marseilles,  Lyons  and  Geneva 
he  found  thousands  of  his  own  countrymen  wasting  their  time, 
energies  and  substance  on  the  fripperies  of  life — dancing,  fenc- 
ing and  the  like — accomplishments  considered  at  that  time  es- 
sential to  the  education  of  a  gentleman. 

It  was  with  a  sense  of  relief  and  release  that  Pastorius  re- 
turned to  the  little  group  of  pietists  in  Frankfurt,  his  old  friends 
of  the  Saalhof,  and  experienced  anew  that  inner  joy  which  sprang 
from  their  simple,  earnest  lives.  He  had  now  finally  found  associ- 
ations which  satisfied  the  spiritual  yearnings  of  his  better  self  and 
was  content  to  renounce  all  the  glint  and  glare  of  the  world.  This 
quiescent  attitude  of  soul  is  well  described  in  the  Beehive  in  the 
following  part  of  a  passage  to  be  cited  entire  further  on  -."^^ 

"And  for  as  much  as  J  after  this  my  Return  was  glad  to 
enjoy  the  ancient  familiarity  of  my  former  Acquaintances  (rather 
than  to  be  with  the  aforesd  von  Bodeck  feasting,  dancing  &c.) 
especially  of  those  Christian  Friends  who  frequently  assem- 
bled together  in  a  house,  called  the  Saalhof." 


*'Cf. 


28o  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

The  psychology  of  this  change  in  Pastorius'  spiritual  life  and 
ideals  and  his  transition  to  the  attitude  of  the  Pietist  and  even  of 
the  Quietist  is  significant  in  the  history  of  the  religious  move- 
ments of  the  time.  The  assumption  that  this  change  in  the  case 
of  Pastorius  was  the  more  or  less  sudden  and  immediate  result  of 
his  association  with  the  Pietists  seems  unfounded,  if  we  may  trust 
his  own  statements.  ^^ 

As  early  as  the  year  1692  Pastorius  set  forth  the  facts  of  his 
spiritual  evolution  in  the  preface  to  his  account  of  Pennsylvania, 
which  was  printed  as  an  appendix  to  his  father's  GeschicJite  des 
H.  R.  Reichs  Stadt  Windshcim,  and  later  extended  into  the 
Beschreibung  of  1700.  It  summarizes  his  religious  evolution  so 
well  that  we  quote  it  here  in  English  translation : 

"It  is  well  enough  known  to  my  family  how,  from  childhood, 
I  directed  my  course  in  this  temporal  life  toward  a  happy  eter- 
nity, and  made  it  m|y  concern  in  all  my  doings  to  understand  the 
will  of  God,  which  alone  is  good,  to  fear  his  omnipotence,  and  to 
learn  to  love  his  unfathomable  goodness.  And,  although  I  suc- 
cessfully completed  the  study  of  jurisprudence,  together  with  the 
other  branches  of  the  Liberal  Arts,  thoroughly  mastered  the  Ital- 
ian and  French  languages,  and  also  took  the  so-called  Great 
Tour  through  foreign  lands,  I  nevertheless  applpied  my  greatest 
industry  and  efforts,  at  all  times  and  places,  solely  to  find  out 
where  and  among  what  people  and  nations  true  devotion,  the 
knowledge  and  fear  of  God,  might  best  be  met  with  and  acquired. 
I  found  at  the  Universities  scholars  almost  without  number, 
faiths,  opinions  and  sects,  so  that  it  was  a  great  babble  and  show  of 
vain  wordly  wisdom,  of  which  the  Apostle  says :  Scientia  InfJaf, 
But  I  cannot  truthfully  write  that  I  found  in  any  place  a  pro- 
fessor who  directed  the  mind  of  a  boy  or  a  pupil  to  the  pure  love 
of  Jesus  or  the  Holy  Trinity.  There  is,  indeed,  no  lack  of  christ- 
ians in  name  and  profession,  who  go  about  puffed  up  with 
worldly  knowledge,  and  love  the  lust  of  the  flesh,  the  lust  of  the 
eyes,  and  the  pride  of  life  (the  trifolium  of  the  Devil!),  but  of 
those  who  thought  of  working  out  their  salvation  with  fear  and 
trembling,  lived  without  deceit,  and  with  all  their  heart  turned 
the  centre  of  their  existence  in  God,  the  highest  good,  there  was 
rnra  ains  in  ferris.    Nevertheless,  I  found,  at  last,  in  the  Univer- 


Cf.  Beehive,  p.  223. 


re 

o 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  281 

sity  of  Cambridge  and  in  the  city  of  Ghent,  some  devoted  men 
living  in  secret  seclusion  from  the  w^orld  and  wholly  resigned  in 
spirit  to  God,  who,  in  answer  to  my  earnest  inquiries,  gave  me 
many  good  instructions,  and  strengthened  me  greatly  in  my 
purpose.  They  also  showed  me,  at  the  Princely  Court  of  Ghent, 
Emperor  Charles  the  Fifth's  famous  birth  chamber  (but  four  ells 
long  and  four  ells  wide)  with  the  legend  telling  how  a  richly  bound 
Bible  was  given  to  the  new-born  prince  by  his  godfather,  with 
this  inscription  in  gold,  bound  in  the  book :  Scrutamini  Scripturas, 
which  the  Prince,  moreover,  read  with  diligence  and  learned 
therefrom  that  he  must  die  depending  on  the  merits  of  Jesus 
Christ  alone. 

I  saw  further  on  this  journey  of  mine,  at  Orleans  and  Paris, 
Avignon,  Marsailles,  Lyons  and  Geneva,  many  thousand  young 
Germans,  mostly  of  the  nobility,  who  are  accustomed  to  follow 
the  vanities  of  dress,  speech,  foreign  manners  and  ceremonies, 
and  incur  incredible  expense  in  learning  to  mount,  to  ride,  to 
dance,  to  fence,  to  bear  piques  and  standards,  so  that  a  great 
part  of  their  German  patrimony  is  expended  on  useless  worldly 
vanity,  while  not  a  single  thought  is  given  to  the  love  of  God 
and  learning  to  follow  Christ,  which  is  well  pleasing  to  God. 
Moreover,  if  anyone  attempts  to  say  anything  of  the  writings  and 
divine  meditations  of  St.  Augustine, 'Tauler,  Arnd,  and  ^  other 
divines,  he  must  be  proclaimed  a  Pietist  and  a  heretic;  and  no 
one  who  is  submerged  in  the  worldly  wisdom  of  Aristotle,  will 
consent  to  be  persuaded  or  chastened  by  the  will  of  God. 

Accordingly  after  the  close  of  my  journey,  I  withdrew  into 
the  retirement  of  my  chamber  and  recalled  to  mind  everything 
which  had  passed  before  my  eyes  on  the  sta^re  of  the  world,  and 
could  not  find  any  enduring  pleasure  in  anything.  T  despaired, 
moreover,  that  any  place  could  be  found  in  my  native  land  or  all 
Germanv  for  those  to  come  after  me,  where  one  might  abandon 
the  old  habit  of  empty  operis  operati  and  enter  the  pure  love  of 
God  with  the  whole  heart,  mind  and  strength  and  love  his  neigh- 
bor as  himself. 

I  reasoned  thus  with  myself,  whether  it  were  not  better  to 
teach  the  learning  which  T  had  received  by  grace  from  the  high- 
est Giver  and  Father  of  Lisrhts  to  the  new-found  American  peo- 
nies of  Pennsylvania  and  thus  make  them  partakers  of  the  true 
knowledge  of  the  Holy  Trinity  and  true  Christianity." 

It  would  appear  from  this  document  that  Pastorius'  spiritnal 
awakening  was  the  result  of  long  years  of  quest  for  the  truth  and 
piety,  and  rather  a  typical  illustration  of  the  rise  of  Pietism  than 


282  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

a  product  of  Pietism  after  it  took  more  tangible  form  under  the 
influence  of  Spener ;  in  a  word,  that  Pastorius,  like  Spener  him- 
self, was  an  exponent  of  the  great  religious  awakening  of  the 
second  half  of  the  seventeenth  century,  the  mature  fruit  of  the 
labors  of  Tauler,  Luther  and  Arnd.  As  a  participant  in  the  relig- 
ious events  of  his  time,  he  would  naturally  have  read  important 
contemporaneoius  literature  representing  the  various  phases  of  the 
movement,  but  there  is  no  evidence  that  before  his  return  to 
Frankfurt  in  November,  1682,  he  had  allied  himself  with  any  sep- 
aratistic  sect.  He  sought  spiritual  regeneration,  not  doctrinal 
reform.  This  naturally  brought  him  into  sympathy  with  the 
Frankfurt  Pietists  and  kindred  spirits  elsewhere  in  Germany,  Hol- 
land and  England,  and  determined  the  course  of  his  later  years, 
leading  him  finally  to  seek  a  quiet  religious  retreat  in  the  wilds 
of  the  new  world. 

William  Penn  and  the  Quakers. 

While  Pastorius  was  thus  like  hundreds  of  his  time  finding 
his  way  to  a  higher  spiritual  life  along  the  way  of  introspection, 
the  Quakers,  moved  by  the  same  spirit,  were  quietly  winning  new 
believers  in  Holland  and  Germany  by  making  more  or  less  sys- 
tematic propaganda  among  the  Mennonite  communities  as  far  as 
the  Middle  Rhine.  The  missionary  labors  of  William  Ames  in 
Holland  and  Germany  (1655-1662),  of  William  Caton  (1656- 
1665),  of  Stephen  Crisp  (1663-1684),  of  George  Rolf,  John 
Stubb,  John  Higgins,  William  Moore  had  all  touched  the  Men- 
nonites  of  the  Middle  Rhine  and  most  of  them  had  extended  into 
the  Rhenish  Palatinate,  arousing  the  ire  of  the  orthodox  Luther- 
ans and  Catholics  alike.  In  1671  William  Penn  made  his  first 
visit  to  these  regions  in  the  interests  of  the  Quaker  faith,  and  in 
1677  he  made  a  second  visit  in  the  same  cause.  It  was  this  sec- 
visit  which  opened  the  way  for  the  great  German  emigration  to 
Pennsylvania  of  which  Pastorius  became  the  pioneer. 

Penn  set  out  July  26,  1677,  with  George  Fox,  Robert  Bare- 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  283 

lay,  George  Keith,  George  Watts,  John  Furley,  WilHam  Tailcoat, 
Isabelle  Yeomans  and  Elizabeth  Keith  from  Harwich  to  attend  a 
General  Meeting  of  Friends  (Quakers)  in  Amsterdam,  where  a 
congregation  or  meeting  had  already  existed  for  twenty  years. 
At  this  General  Meeting  fifteen  general  resolutions  were  agreed 
upon,  the  third  of  which  clearly  defined  the  limits  of  Quaker  ter- 
ritory and  announced  the  definite  policy  of  uniting  all  Quakers 
within  this  territory  in  the  great  Yearly  Meeting  at  Amsterdam. 
The  resolution  nms  as  follows : 

"It  is  Agreed  upon,  that  henceforth  a  Yearly  Meeting  be  held 
here  at  Amsterdam ;  unto  which  Friends  in  the  Palatinate,  Ham- 
brough,  Lubeck  and  Frederickstadt,  &c.  be  invited :  Of  which  Meet- 
ing there  shall  be  given  Notice  to  Friends  of  the  Yearly  Meeting 
at  London,  to  be  kept  always  on  the  fifth  day  of  that  Week ; 
which  is  fully  the  third  Week  following  after  the  Yearly  Meeting 
at  London."27 

After  this  General  Meeting  in  Amsterdam,  George  Fox  and 
his  party  set  out  to  visit  Friends  in  Emden,  Bremen.  Hamburg 
and  Frisia,  while  William  Penn,  accompanied  by  William  Keith, 
Robert  Barclay  and  Benjamin  Furley,  an  English  merchant  then 
residing  in  Rotterdam,  turned  their  steps  to  Germany  to  visit  the 
Friends  along  the  Rhine.  They  went  by  boat  to  Naerden.  thence 
by  stage  by  way  of  Osnabriick  to  Herwerden  in  Westphalia, 
where  they  called  upon  the  abbess  of  the  convent  there.  Princess 
Elizabeth  Stuart,  daughter  of  Frederick  V.  Prince  Palatine  of  the 
Rhine  and  niece  of  Charles  I  of  England.  On  the  13th  of  August 
Penn,  Keith  and  Furley  took  leave  of  Barclay  at  Herwerden  and 
continued  their  journey  by  way  of  Paderborn  and  Kassel,  arriv- 
ing August  20th  in  Frankfurt-on-the-Main.    They  held  a  meeting 


"  Cf.  An  I  Account  |  of  [  W.  Penn's  ]  Travails  |  in  |  Holland  and  Ger- 
many, I  Anno  MDCLXXVII.  |  For  the  Service  of  the  Gospel  !  of  Christ,  by 
way  of  Journal.  |  Containing  also  Divers  Letters  and  (  Epistles  writ  to  several 
Great  and  |  Eminent  Persons  whilst  there.  |  The  Second  Impression,  Corrected 
by  I  the  Author's  own  Copy,  with  answers  to  some  of  \  the  Letters,  not  be- 
fore Printed.  |  London,  Printed  and  Sold  by  T.  Sowle,  in  White-  |  Hart- 
Court  in  Grace-Church-Street.  1695.   (Pp.  8-9.) 


284  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

at  night  at  the  house  of  Jacobus  van  de  Walle  and  the  next  morn- 
ing, by  invitation  of  Eleonora  von  Merlau,  at  the  house  of  Widow 
Bauer  von  Eiseneck,  with  whom  Eleonora  von  Merlau  was  then 
living.  Leaving  Frankfurt,  Penn  and  his  companions  went  to 
Worms  and  Kriegsheim  (August  23),  Frankenthal  (August  24), 
back  to  Kriegsheim  (August  26),  Worms  again  (August  27), 
Mainz  and  back  to  Frankfurt  (August  28).  They  held  another 
meeting  in  the  afternoon  at  the  house  of  the  "Noble  Women" 
(Widow  Bauer  von  Eiseneck  and  Eleonora  von  Merlau)  and  later 
at  the  house  of  van  de  Walle.  Leaving  Frankfurt  they  continued 
their  journey  down  the  Rhine  to  Mainz  and  Hambach  (?)  (Aug- 
ust 29),  Bacharach,  Coblenz  and  Tressy  (  ?^)  (August  30),  Koln 
(August  31),  Duisburg  and  Miihlheim-on-the-Ruhr  (September 
2),  back  to  Duisburg  (September  3),  Wesel  (September  4),  Em- 
merich and  Cleve  (September  5),  Nimegen  (September  6),  Ut- 
recht and  Amsterdam  (September  7).'* 

The  religious  importance  of  this  visit  of  Penn  and  his  Quaker 
companions  to  Frankfurt  lay  in  the  fact  that  it  made  a  deep  im- 
pression on  the  minds  of  certain  members  of  the  Pietistic  circle, 
of  which  Spener  was  the  central  figure,  giving  a  new  impetus  to 
their  religious  zeal.  It  appears,  however,  that  Spener  himself  held 
aloof  from  the  Quaker  meetings  and  avoided  meeting  Penn.  In 
his  Journal  Penn,  speaking  of  the  visit  to  Frankfurt,  says : 

"Two  considerable  Persons  came  and  met  us  about  half  a 
German  Mile  from  the  City ;  informing  us  of  several  well  affected 
in  that  Town.  Upon  which  we  told  them  the  end  of  our  coming, 
and  desired  to  have  a  Meeting  with  them  in  the  Afternoon, 
which  we  easily  obtained  at  the  House  of  a  Merchant  [van  de 
Walle],  one  of  the  two  that  met  us.  The  Persons  that  resorted 
thither  were  generally  People  of  considerable  Note,  both  of 
Calvinists  and  Lutherans."^^ 


"  Cf.  O.  Seidensticker,  William  Perm's  Travels  in  Holland  and  Germany 
(Pennsylvania  Magasine.  II.  281-282). 

"  Cf.  An  Account  of  Penn's  Travels  in  Holland  and  Germany,  etc. 
(1695),  pp.  55-56. 


I    N«,n   ^t'n  tV  /«t\     Cju  J,  tine)  -Jn^'c  t*A    l.c't<^^A^'^  -^i'y'  ♦^V^ 

s^^K^i  ili'^^K  s^^^<^^  ^'^Mr^rX  /^''"t^''"  ■^'^^^f 

c'ov   Gc 


Epitaph  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius, 
Written  by  himself  (from  the  "Liber  Intimissimi 


ntimissimus"). 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  285 

But  not  all  of  the  attendants  upon  these  meetings  were  as 
cautious  as  Spener.  In  some  the  enthusiasm  rose  to  the  pitch  of 
martyrdom.  This  was  particularly  the  case  with  Eleonora  von 
Merlau,  as  Penn  tells  us  in  one  of  the  finest  passages  of  his  Jour- 
nal'. 

"Therefore  said  the  Young  Virgin  [Eleonora  von  Merlau], 
Our  Quarters  are  free  for  you,  let  all  come  that  will  come,  and 
lift  up  your  Voices  without  fear,  for  (said  she)  it  will  never  be 
well  with  us  till  Persecution  come,  and  some  of  us  be  lodged  in 
the  Stadthouse,  That  is  the  Prison." 

The  visit  of  Penn  and  the  Quakers  in  Frankfurt  in  1677, 
stirring  as  it  was  at  the  time,  might  have  remained  only  a  religious 
episode,  had  not  other  more  secular  events  given  it  a  new  signifi- 
cance. While  it  is  possible  that  Pastorius  was  more  or  less  influ- 
enced by  the  spiritual  tenor  of  the  life  of  the  Quakers,  as  well  as 
that  of  the  Frankfurt  Pietists,  during  his  journey  with  Bodeck, 
it  is  not  likely  that  his  interest  would  have  gone  beyond  religious 
friendship  and  sympathy  without  some  new  impetus.  The  event 
which  gave  a  new  importance  to  these  visits  of  Penn  and  the 
Quakers  in  the  Rhine  Country  was  the  proprietorship  of  the  Pro- 
vince of  Pennsylvania  granted  by  the  King  of  England  to  William 
Penn,  the  great  Quaker,  in  the  year  1681,  about  the  time  of  Pa- 
storius' journey  to  England  with  Bodeck.^*^ 

The  fact  that  Penn  had  become  proprietor  of  a  great  province 
in  America  and  was  now  inviting  his  German  friends  to  come  and 
settle  in  these  new  lands  lifted  him  out  of  the  role  of  a  religious 
enthusiast  to  that  of  a  provincial  lord,  offering  a  quiet  retreat  to 
the  perturbed  and  persecuted  of  the  old  world.    Penn's  Account, ^^ 


'"  Cf.  An  Account  of  Penn's  Travels  in  Holland  and  Germany,  etc. 
(1695),  P-  57- 

"Some  I  Account  |  of  the  |  Province  |  of  |  Pennsilvania  |  in  |  America;  | 
Lately  Granted  under  the  Great  Seal  |  of  |  England  ]  to  |  William  Penn,  &c  | 
Together  with  Priviledges  and  Powers  neces-  |  sary  to  the  well-governing 
thereof.  |  Made  publick  for  the  Information  of  such  as  are  or  may  be  |  dis- 
posed to  Transport  themselves  or  Servants  |  into  those  Parts.  |  London: 
Printed,  and  Sold  by  Benjamin  Clark  |  Bookseller  in  George- Yard  Lombard- 
Street,  1681. 


286  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

published  in  London  in  1681,  and  published  in  Dutch^^  j^  Rotter- 
dam, and  in  German^^  in  Amsterdam,  the  same  year,  came  as  a 
new  message  of  glad  good  news  to  all  the  Quaker  and  Mennon- 
ite  communities  of  Holland  and  the  Rhine,  opening  the  way  to  a 
new  paradise  of  religious  tranquility  beyond  the  sea. 

This  new  scheme  of  colonization  in  Pennsylvania  was  the 
subject  of  ardent  discussion  in  the  Pietistic  circle  at  Frankfurt 
v;hen  Pastorius  returned  from  his  journey  in  November,  1682. 
Some  of  the  circle  had  already  decided  to  emigrate,  and  were 
making  preparations  for  the  journey.  At  first  they  kept  the  matter 
concealed  from  Pastorius,  but  finally,  seeing  that  he  was  seriously 
interested  in  the  scheme,  they  gradually  disclosed  the  secret  to  him. 
He  speaks  of  three  forms  of  information  which  they  gave  him 
of  the  scheme.  First,  they  often  spoke  of  William  Penn,  refer- 
ring doubtless  to  his  religious  views  and  his  personal  character. 


"Een  kort  Bericht  |  Van  de  Provintie  ofte  Landschap  |  Penn-Sylvania  | 
genaemt,  leggende  in  |  America ;  |  Nu  onlangs  onder  het  groote  Zegel  van 
Engeland  |  gegeven  aan  |  William  Penn,  &c.  |  mitsgaders  |  Van  de  Privilegien, 
ende  Macht  om  |  het  selve  wel  to  Regeeren.  |  Uyt  het  Engels  overgeset  na  de 
Copye  tot  Londen  gedruckt  by  Benja  |  min  Clark,  Boekverkooper  in  George 
Yard  Lombardstreet.  1681.  |  Waer  by  nu  gevoegt  is  de  Notificatie  van  s' 
Konings  Placcact  |  in  date  van  den  2  April  1681,  waar  inne  de  tegenwoordige 
I  Inwoonders  van  Penn-Sylvania,  belast  word  i  William  Penn  en  zijn  Erfge- 
named,  als  volkomene  |  Eygenaars  en  Gouverneurs,  te  gehoorsamen.  |  Als 
mede,  |  De  Copye  van  een  Brief  by  de  selven  W.  P.  geschreven  aan  |  zekete 
Regeeringe  Anno  1675.  tegens  de  Vervolginge  |  en  voor  de  Vryheyt  van  Con- 
scientie,  aan  alle  &c.  |  Tot  Rotterdam.  |  Gedrukt  by  Pieter  van  Wynbrugge, 
Boek-Drukker  in  de  |  Leenwestraat,  in  de  Wereld  Vol-Druk.    Anno  1681. 

^  Eine  I  Nachricht  |  wegen  der  Landschaft  |  Pennsylvania  |  in  |  America : 
I  Welche  |  Jiingstens  unter  dem  Grossen  Siegel  |  in  |  Engelland  |  an  |  William 
Penn,  &c.  |  Sambt  den  Freyheiten  und  der  Macht  |  so  zu  behoriger  |  guten 
Regierung  derselben  notig  |  ubergeben  worden  |  und  1  Zum  Unterricht  derer 
j  so  etwan  bereits  bewogen  |  oder  noch  |  mochten  bewogen  werden  |  umb  sich 
selbsten  darhin  |  zu  begeben  |  oder  einige  Bediente  und  Gesinde  |  an  diesen 
Ort  zu  senden  |  hiermit  kund  gethan  wird.  |  Aus  dem  in  London  gedrucktem 
und  aldar  bey  Benjamin  Clarck  |  Buchhandlern  in  George-Yard  Lombard- 
street  befindlichem  |  Englischen  iibersetzet.  |  Nebenst  beygefugtem  ehemaligem 
im  1675.  lahr  gedrucktem  |  Schreiben  des  oberwehnten  Will.  Penns.  |  In 
Amsterdam  |  gedruckt  bey  Christoff  Cunraden.  |  Im  lahr  1681. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastoriiis  287 

Second,  they  showed  him  private  letters  of  Benjamin  Furly,  the 
great  promoter  of  the  scheme  in  Holland  and  Germany,  who  may 
have  given  them  particulars  concerning  the  matter  contained  in 
the  Information  and  Direction^"^  published  in  1681.  Thirdly,  they 
communicated  to  him  also  a  "printed  Relation,"  which,  doubtless, 
refers  to  Penn's  Account  mentioned  above.  In  the  Res  Propriae^^ 
Pastorius  speaks  of  "verschiedene  relation  schreiben,"  read  by 
him,  which  would  seem  to  show  that  he  might  have  seen  other 
printed  matter,  such  as  the  Information  and  Direction,  as  well  as 
Penn's  Account. 

The  earliest  extant  official  document^^a  relating  to  a  trans- 
action in  connection  with  Pastorius  is  the  authorization,  or 
power  of  attorney,  given  to  Pastorius  by  a  number  of  the  first 
purchasers  of  laxid  in  Pennsylvania,  bearing  date  April  2,  1683. 
The  document  committed  to  Pastorius  "the  care  and  Administra- 
tion of  all  their  Estate,  lands  and  Rights  which  they  lawfully  ob- 
tained there  of  William  Penn."  He  was  to  "conserve  in  the  best 
form  of  Law  the  things  themselves,  the  Possession  thereof  and 
other  rights,"  "Order  the  tillage  of  the  ground,"  "Hire  Labour- 
ers, grant  part  of  the  land  to  others,  take  the  yearly  Revenue  or 
Rents"  and  all  other  functions  of  administration,  "all  sorts  of 
alienation  and  mortgaging  excepted." 

A  sum  of  money  was  given  to  the  agent  for  this  purpose, 
and  he  was  to  render  a  yearly  account  to  his  constituents  or  their 
heirs,  but  the  constituents  were  "not  to  be  obliged  to  any  man  by 
all  his  doings  and  contracts."  The  agent's  compensation  was  to 
be  what  is  "reasonable"  from  "the  expected  Income  or  Rents  in 
Pennsylvania."  This  most  cautiously  worded  instrument  was 
signed  by  Jacobus  van  de  Walle,  for  himself  and  as  attorney  for 
Johann  Wilhelm  Peterson  and  his  wife,  Eleonore  von  Merlau 


"Information  and  Direction  |  to  |  Such  Persons  as  are  inclined  J  to  | 
America,  |  more  |  Especially  Those  related  to  the  Province  |  of  |  Penn- 
sylvania. 

"  Cf .  Res.  Propriae,  p.  6. 

'^a  Cf.  S.  W.  Pennypacker,  The  Settlement  of  Germantown. 


288  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

(Petersen),  Daniel  Behaghel,  Johann  Jacob  Schiitz,  Caspar  Me- 
rian,  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius. 

The  next  record  we  have  states  that  Pastorius  bought  in 
London  (between  May  8  and  June  6,  1683),  15,000  acres  of  land 
for  the  Frankfurt  company.  This  seems  to  be  the  status  of  the 
transactions  at  the  time  when  Pastorius  sailed  for  America  on  the 
ship  America,  June  6,  1683. 

The  account  of  the  events  leading  up  to  the  departure  for 
America  are  well  siummed  up  by  Pastorius  in  the  Beehive'. 

"And  forasmuch  as  J  after  this  my  Return  was  glad  to  en- 
joy the  ancient  familiarity  of  my  former  Acquaintances  (rather 
than  to  be  with  the  aforesd  von  Bodeck,  feasting,  dancing  &c.) 
especially  of  those  Christian  Friends,  who  frequently  assembled 
together  in  a  house,  called  the  Saalhof,  viz.  Dr.  Spenner,  Dr. 
Schutz,  Notarius  Fenda,  Jacobus  van  de  Walle,  Maximilian  (by- 
named  the  pious)  Lersner,  Eleonora  von  Merlau,  Maria  Juliana 
Baurin,  &c.  who  sometimes  made  mention  of  William  Penn  &  of 
Pennsilvania,  and  moreover  communicated  unto  me  as  well 
some  private  letters  from  Benjamin  Furly,  as  also  a  printed  Re- 
lation concerning  the  sd  province,  and  finally  the  whole  Secret 
could  not  be  withholden  from  me,  viz.  that  they  purchased  15000. 
Acres  of  land  in  this  remote  part  of  the  world,  some^'  of  'em 
entirely  resolv'd  to  transport  themselves,  families  &  all ;  this 
begat  such  a  desire  in  my  Soul  to  continue  in  their  Society,  and 
with  them  to  lead  a  quiet,  godly  &  honest  life  in  a  Howling  wil- 
derness, (which  J  observed  to  be  a  heavy  Task  for  any  to  perform 
among  the  bad  examples  &  numberless  Vanitates  Vanitatum  in 
Europe,)  that  by  several  Letters  J  requested  of  my  sd  Father  his 
Consent  &  approbation,  and  at  length  Obtained  the  same,  with  a 
Bill  of  Exchange  of  250.  rixdollars;  Thereupon  J  sent  a  large 
Chest  full  of  Books  &  other  Rarities  by  me  heretofore  gathered 
as  a  free  Gift  to  my  brother  Johafies  Samuel  Pastorius,  and  after 
One  weeks  Visit,  wch  J  gave  to  Friends  at  Krisheim,  to  wit, 


"*  In  the  Res  Propriae  we  have  the  following  additional  details : 
"auch  bereits  einige  gottfiirchtende  Menschen  [unter  welchen  Xtian 
Fend  und  Frau  Baurin,]  sich  dorthin  zu  transportiren  entschlossen,  u.  allschon 
zusam  gepackt  hatten,  entstund  cine  nicht  geringe  begierd  bey  mir.  in  ihrer 
Gesellschaft  mit  iiberzusegeln,  u.  daselbst  (  :  nach  iiberflussig  gesehenen  u. 
gekosteten  Europaeischen  Eitelkeiten  :)  nebenst  Jhnen  ein  still  und  Christlich 
leben  zu  fiihren." 


5"  C 


a    O 

M       O 

vO     JO 


t^)   -■ 


15 


Francis  Daniel  Pasiorius  289 

Peter  Shoemaker,  Gerhard  Henrix,  Arnold  Cassel,  &c.,  J  pre- 
pared myself  for  this  the  farthermost  Journey,  that  J  as  yet  ever 
had  done  or  dreamed  of.  Anno  1683.  the  2nd  of  April  J  set  out 
from  Francfort,  came  the  5th  of  ditto  to  Collein,  where  J  was 

kindly  received  of  David  van  Enden,  Danniel  Mitz  and   

Dozen,  the  then  Resident  of  the  King  of  Denmark  in  the  sd  City, 
[this  Dozen  had  strong  Jnclinations  for  Pennsilvania  &  desired 
me  to  prevail  with  his  wife,  but  her  Reply  was  that  there  they 
were  carried  in  a  Coach  from  one  door  to  the  other,  but  if  they 
should  happen  to  some  hither,  she  was  afraid  that  she  must  look 
after  the  Cattle,  and  milk  her  cows,  &c.]  and  the  nth  ditto  all 
along  upon  the  Rein  to  Oerdingen,  from  whence  J  went  a  foot 
to  Crefelt  and  there  did  speak  to  Denis  kunders  &  his  wife.  Dirk, 
Herman  &  Abraham  op  den  GraefT,  &c.  who  with  many  others 
came  about  Six  weeks  after  me  into  the  aforesd  Province.  The 
i6th  ditto  J  arrived  at  Rotterdam,  Lodged  with  our  Friend  Ma- 
rieke  Vettekucke ;  saw  here  Benjamin  Furly,  Peter  Hendrics, 
Jacob  Tellner,  &c.  The  4th  of  May  J  sailed  from  Rotterdam 
accompanied  by  Tob.  Lud.  Kohlhans,  and  the  servant,  then  with 
me,  and  came  the  8th  of  ditto  to  London,  taking  our  Lodging  at 
John  Hodgkins  in  Lombard  Street.  After  J  had  done  my  busi- 
ness with  Hellmont  &  those  J  had  letters  for,  J  with  Jacob  Shoe- 
maker (who  came  with  me  from  Mentz,)  George  Wertmuller, 
Jsaac  Dilbeek,  his  wife  Marieke  &  his  two  boys  Abraham  & 
Jacob,  Thomas  Gasper,  Cunrad  Backer,  (alias  Rutter,)  and  an 
English  Maid,  called  Frances  Simson,  went  a  board  of  a  Ship, 
which  had  the  name  of  America,  (the  Captain  whereof  was  Jos- 
eph Wasey,)  and  being  gone  the  6th  of  June  from  Gravesend,^'^ 
we  arrived  the  7th  ditto  at  Deal,  and  left  England  the  loth  of  the 
sd  month  of  June,  and  saw  the  i6th  of  August  this  new  World, 
arriving  the  i8th  ditto  in  the  Bay  of  Delaware,  and  the  20th  ditto 
at  Philadelphia.  Post  Francofortum  Fessus  Desidero  Portum. 
This  our  sd  Passage  described  more  at  large,  my  sons  may  find 
in  the  abovesd  Journal  or  Jtinerary  in  8'^  as  likewise  many  of  my 
Transactions  for  &  in  behalf  of  Others  in  a  Manuscript  in  4*^  so 
that  it  is  altogether  needless  to  repeat  it  here,  &c." 

The  most  interesting  facts  about  our  early  German  settlers 
in  America  and  the  most  difficult  to  obtain  are  those  relating  to 
domestic  and  private  life.     In  the  case  of  Pastorius  we  are  for- 


"  In  the  Res  Propriae  Pastorius  states  that  he  arrived  in  Gravesend  June 
3d. 


290  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

tunate  in  having  a  record  of  many  of  these  personal  details  in  his 
own  manuscript  notes  and  memoranda,  where  we  find  the  follow- 
ing relating  to  his  life  in  Germany  and  his  journey  to  the  new 
world : 

Children  to  whom  I  was  godfather. 

1670.  25.  July.  Johann  Caspar  Mercklein's  Httle  son,  to  whom 
the  name  Frantz  Jacob  was  given. 

1677.  6.  Aug.  the  saltpeterboiler  Michael  Schmidt's  little  son,  to 
whom  the  name  Frantz  Daniel  was  given. 

1678.  18.  May  I  stood  sponsor  with  Doctor  Ludwig  Hartmann 
for  Johann  Joachim  Marcklein's  little  son,  to  whom  the 
name  Ludwig  Frantz  was  given. 

Important  Weddings  I  have  attended. 

1663.  31.  July,  at  my  [step]  brother  Joh.  Ludwig  Johm's  wed- 
ding in  Ansbach. 

1675.  20.  April,  in  Beyreut  at  the  wedding  of  Georg  Roth,  Sec- 
retary of  the  Court  of  Fees,  in  that  place,  who  married 
Adam  Volckmann's  eldest  daughter,  Anna  Maria,  my  last 
stepmother's  sister. 

6.  July,  best  man  at  D.  Grimm's  [wedding]  at  Segnitz. 

1679.    at  Wolfifgang  Beyern's   [wedding]   in  Windsheim. 

12.  August,  at  Joh.  Martin  Miiller's  [wedding]  in  Frank- 

furt-on  the  Main. 

1680.  27.  January,  at  [wedding]  of  M.  Rhein  and  Je.  Sultzer.^s 


"Cf.  Res  Propriae. 

Kinder,  so  ich  aus  der  Tauflf  gehoben. 
1670.    25.  Jul.  Hn.  Johan  Caspar  Merckleins  Sohnlein,  deme  der  Nahm  Frantz 
Jacob  gegeben  wurde. 

1677.  6.  Aug.  des  Saltpetersieder  Michael  Schmidt's  Sohnlein,  deme  der  Nahm 
Frantz  Daniel  gegeben. 

1678.  18.  May  hub  ich  nebenst  Hn.  Doctor  Ludwig  Hartmaii  Hn.  Johan 
Joachim  Merckleins  Sohnlein,  deme  der  Nahm  Ludwig  Frantz  gegben 
worden. 

,        Principale  Hochzeiten,  worauff  ich  gewest. 
1663.    31.  Jul.  Zu  Onspach  auff  mein  bruder  Joh.  Ludwig  Johms. 
1675.   20.  Apr.  Zu  Beyreut  auff  Georg  Rothens,  Lehen  Secretarius,  daselbst, 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  291 

In  the  case  of  Pastorius  we  have  an  accurate  accoiunt^^  of 
the  money  which  he  received  during  his  years  of  study  and  upon 
his  departure  for  Pennsylvania,  and  the  names  of  the  persons  who 
furnished  it.     He  summarizes  as  follows : 

"NB.    Von  meinem  L.  Vatter  hab  ich  von  Zeit  zu  Zeit 

auff    Universitaten    u.    sonst    empfang 949  rthlr. 

und  endlich,  als  pag.  seq.  noch 250 

1 199  rthlr. 

Audi  von  meiner  stiefifmutter  Greulichen 15 

Von  verschiedenen  Freunden,  da  ich  nach  Strassburg 

zog 17 

Von  meiner  stieffmutter  olckmannin 12 

Von  Juncker  Bodeck,  als  nach  Pensilv.  reiste 20 

Tot  pereunt  cum   Tempore  Numi 1263  rthlr. 

In  another  part  of  the  same  manuscript  Pastorius  gives  an 
inventory  of  the  effects  which  he  brought  with  him  on  the  journey 
to  Pennsylvania.  The  list  is  prefaced  by  a  brief  reference  to  his 
money  in  the  form  of  a  letter  of  credit.  The  original,  showing 
he  had  £81  in  American  (English)  money  of  the  time,  runs  as 
follows : 

Toda  domus  Codri  rheda  componitur  una. 

Anno  1683.  als  ich  aus  Teutschland  nach  Peiisilvanien  ver- 
reisete  hatte  ich  an  paarem  geld  m.  Martio,  270  reichsthaler  nemb- 
lich  20  reichsthaler  so  ich  von  Juncker  Bodeck  kriegte,  und  250 
reichsthaler  die  mir  mein  Vatter  mitgab,  u.  Jacobus  van  de 
Walle,   einen   Weertbrieff   von   gedm    meinem   Vatter   Iiabende, 


welcher  sich  verheurathet  an  Adam  Volckmans  alteste  Tochter  Anna 
Maria,  meiner  letzten  Stiefmutter  Schwester. 

6.  Jul.   zu    Segnitz   auff   D.    Grimmens   Brautfiihrer,   welcher    Nicolaus 

Eichen  tochter  Magdalen  heurathete,  die  meine  Mutter  anno  1652.  25. 
Sept.  aus  der  Tauff  gehoben,  u.  mein  liebe  Gespielin  war. 

1679.  12.  Aug.  zu  Franckfurt  auff.  Joh.  Martin  Miiller.  Zu  Winsheim  auff 
Wolffgang  Beverns. 

1680.  27.  Jan.  ibid,  auff  M.  Rheinen  mit  Je.  Sultzerin, 
"  Cf.  Res  Propriae,  p.  14. 


292 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 


theils  selbst  zu  Franckfurt  bezahlte,  theils  durch  Benj.  Furly  zu 
Rotterdam,  und  den  rest  durch  Herman  Olmius  zu  Londen  bc- 
zahlen  liesz. 

Macht  diese   meine   wenige    Paarschafft   in    diszlandischem 
geld  8i  £. 

Ferner  nahm  ich  mit  mir  an  Silberwerck 

Ein  Sackiihrgen,  so  ich  in  Engelland  eintauschte  gegen  deme, 

welches  mir  Frau  Baurin  verehrt  hatte. 
Meine  gewohnlichen  lofel. 
Neun  Dutzend  glatte  knopf. 
Drey  paar  Hembder  knopf. 

An  Messing  &c. 

Einen  Ring  ex  Mercuric  coagulate. 

Mein  pettschafft  mit  silbern  plattg  F  D  P. 

Ein  zusammenfaltende  gold  wag  in  kupferner  Tos. 

Ein  tabac  Tos.     Zwey  Circuln. 

Ein  Sonenweiser.     Zwey  Schnupftabac  biichsgen. 

Ein  bleyweis-feder.     Schueschnallen. 

Ein  metallen  Glocklein. 

An  Zinn  und  Blech. 

Ein  Butterbiichs,  die  mir  Doctor  Schiitz  zur  reisgedachtniss 

gab. 
Zwey  rieb-eisgen.    6.  Dutzend  zinerne  Knopf. 
Ein  breit  feder-rohr.    Futteral  zur  Tabackpfeif. 
Ein  dreyeckigte  biichs.     Hosen  sacken. 

An  Eisen, 

Zwey     Schliisselring.      Ein    schuesporn.      Zwey    Vorharig- 

schlosser, 
Stahlerne  Schueschnallen. 

An  Messern  &c. 

Ein  taschenmesser  mit  schiltkroten  hefft. 
Ein  anders  mit  hirschbeinen  hefft. 
Ein  weisz  messer  u.  gabel.     Zwey  federmesser. 
Drey  Scheer-messer.     Zwey  Scheeren. 

An  Bein  und  Horn. 
Ein  helffenbein,  papier  zu  falten. 


Tower  at  Altdorf  in   1903. 
(University  I^^nd  of  the  Town.) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  '2<^'h 

Zwey  Zahnbiirstg.     Ein  rothlofelgen. 
Poudre  beutel  Haubt.    Zwey  biesem  biixgen. 
Schreibzeug.     Zwey  Schnuptabac  Tosgen. 
Etliche  Kam. 

An  Glasern. 

Ein  Perspectiv.     Zwey  Fernglaser. 
Ein  paar  augen  glaser.    Ein  Spiegel. 

An  andern  Dingen. 

Ein  Flinten  rohr,  so  mir  Jacobus  van  de  Walle  verehrt. 
Ein  Scheermesser-stein.     Ein  blau  probstein. 

An  Linenzeug. 

Zwolff  neue,  und  etliche  alte  Hembder. 

Acht  Schlaff-  und  Drey  Paruquen  miitzgen. 

Sechszehn  lange  Halsbinden. 

Zwolff  weise-  und  acht  gefarbte  nastiicher. 

Sechs  paar  weisz  leinen  Striimpf. 

Acht  paar  Socken.    Ein  lange  Handquell. 

An  Kleidern. 

Zwey  gestrickte  Schlaffmiitzen. 

Zwey  Hauben  aus  schwarzem  Krep. 

Ein  Haub  von  braunem  Krep. 

Zwey  graue  Hiit. 

Ein  blauen  Mantel. 

Ein  braun  tiichern  langen  Oberrock. 

Zwey  lackene  rock  mit  zwey  paar  Hosen. 

Ein  tiichern-  und  Ein  ledern  Camisol. 

Ein  weisz  Zeugen  Camisol.    Ein  ledern  Giirtel. 

Ein  paar  lederne  Hosen. 

Zwey  paar  lederne  strumpf. 

Zwey  paar  gestrickte  striimpf. 

Ein  paar  Handschue. 

Zwey  paar  Schue.     Ein  paar  Pantofcln. 

Ein  paar  iiberzihstiefel. 

Noch  hatte  ich  eine  schwartze  reiskist;  Span.  rohr. 

Ein  beltzern  kistgen. 

Ein  bleyern  Schreibzeug.     Ein  Schwam.     Ein  Kehrbiirst. 

ledern  federrohr.     ledernen  gam  Tos.     2  Ricch-biixgen, 

(To  be  continued.) 


ALEXANDER    REINAGLE,    AND    HIS    CONNECTION 
WITH  THE  MUSICAL  LIFE  OF  PHILADELPHIA. 

By 
R.  R.  DRUMMOND, 

University  of  Pennsylvania. 
(May  25,  1907.) 

The  different  aspects  of  civilization  and  culture  of  the 
eighteenth  century  in  America  have  been  studied  minutely  with 
a  few  exceptions.  One  of  these  exceptions  is  music.  It  has  been 
stated  by  certain  writers  that,  during  the  eighteenth  century, 
there  was  no  music  of  importance,  that  the  colonists  were  not 
musical,  and  that  the  little  music  there  was  consisted  of  hymns 
and  anthems  sung  in  the  church  service.  This  theory  is  un- 
tenable, and  shows  that  writers  who  advance  such  views  are 
not  at  all  conversant  with  the  true  conditions  of  early  music 
in  America.* 

Long  before  Alexander  Reinagle  cam.e  to  this  country 
(1786),  Philadelphia  had  felt  the  influence  of  Handel  and  the 
London  musical  world.  As  early  as  1730  an  advertisement 
appeared  stating  that  Thomas  Ball's  sister  taught  "Singing, 
Playing  on  the  Spinet,  Dancing,"  etc.^  Her  teaching  must 
have  been  successful,  since  in  1739  B.  Franklin  advertised  such 
standard  musical  works  as  "Corelli's  Sonatas,  Geminiani's  Con- 
certos, Ditto's  Solos."'  The  next  year,  1740  there  were  con- 
certs given  which  were  apparently  of  a  private  nature.  The 
concerts  must  have  been  tolerably  well   supported,   since  they 


'  Cf.   on  the  other  hand  the  various  books  of  O.  G.   Sonneck   (quoted 
later)    for  a  true  statement  concerning  early  musical  life  in  America. 
'Pennsylvania  Gazette,  Mar.  5-13,  1729-30. 
'Pennsylvania  Gasette,  March  15-22,  1738-9. 
(294) 


Alexander   Reinagle  295 

were  given  throughout  the  whole  year,  and  not  merely  confined 
to  the  winter  season.*  Concerts  similar  to  these  are  mentioned 
in  1744  by  William  Black,^  and  also  by  Gottlieb  Mittelberger 
(1750-4^;  but  it  was  not  until  1757  that  the  first  pubhc  con- 
certs are  recorded  J  There  is  a  record,  too,  of  a  band  in  1755.^ 
Even  from  the  few  data  here  given,  it  will  be  seen  that  concert 
life  in  Philadelphia  began  at  an  early  date,  and  that  the  culti- 
vation of  music  was  quite  important. 

The  character  of  the  music  played  at  this  time  will  show 
that  the  musical  taste  was  not  that  of  a  rude,  uncultivated 
people,  but  rather  that  of  a  people  of  the  highest  civilization  and 
culture.  In  1744,  Handel,  who  was  all-powerful  in  London, 
was  not  unknown  to  Philadelphians.  In  that  year  a  muscial 
clock  was  introduced,  which  among  other  pieces  played  "Sonatas, 
Concertos,  Marches,  Minuetts,  Jiggs  and  Scots  Airs,  composed 
by  Corelli,  Alberoni,  Mr.  Handel  and  other  eminent  Masters 
of  Musick,"^  In  1749  came  to  Philadelphia  John  Beals,^'^  1757 
John  Palmer,^^  and  1763  James  Bremner,^^ — all  music  teachers 
— and  it  is  safe  to  say  that  all  these  men  reflected  the  taste  for 
Handel  then  prevalent  in  London.  There  is  further  evidence 
of  the  musical  taste  in  Philadelphia  in  a  monograph  by  O.  G. 
Sonneck  on  "Francis  Hopkinson  and  James  Lyon."     At  the  age 


*  Pennsylvania  Gazette,  May  1-8,  1740. 

'  Wm.  Black,  Diary,  June  5,  1744.  [Pennsylvania  Magazine  of  History, 
Vol.  I,  page  46.] 

6  Gottlieb  Mittelberger's  Journey  to  Pennsylvania,  1750-4.  Translated  by 
C.   T.  Eben   (1898),  p.  ii4ff. 

'  O.  G.  Sonneck,  Francis  Hopkinson  and  Jas.  Lyon,  p.  22.  [Washing- 
ton, D.  C,  1905.] 

8  Daniel  Fishrr's  Diary  Pennsylvania  Magazine  of  History,  Vol.  XVII. 
page  273.] 

•  Pennsylvania  Gazette,  July  12,  1744. 

^'^  Pennsylvania  Gazette,  March  21,  1749. 
"  Pennsylvania   Gazette,   January  20,    1757. 
^2  Pennsylvania  Gazette,  December  i,  1763. 


296  Alexander  Reinagle 

of  eighteen  (1755)  Hopkinson  was  acquainted  with  "Italian, 
French  and  English  trios"  [as  well  as]  "an  'Air  in  Atlanta,' 
by  Handel,  and  a  famous  'Water  Piece,'  by  this  author."^^  A 
manuscript  book  of  Hopkinson's  (1759)  represents  "Handel  with 
ten  pieces  ("Samson"  evidently  being  Hopkinson's  favorite  ora- 
torio, by  the  master),  "Signr.  Palma,"  and  "Signr.  Vinci,"  both 
with  four;  Ame  with  two;  Pepush  (Alexis  a  Cantata),  Dr. 
Boyce,  Pergolesi,  and  Purcell  with  one  piece."  A  third  manu- 
script volume  called  "Lessons,"  date  not  given,  contains,  among 
others,  compositions  by  "Handel  (who  predominates),  Scar- 
latti, Abel,  Stamitz,  Vivaldi,  Galuppi.  Pugnani,  Stanley,  Smith 
[Schmidt],  Pasquali,  Giardine,  Corelli,  Geminiani,  Lord  Kelly." 

From  these  manuscripts  it  is  evident  that  Hopkinson  was 
familiar  wtih  many  of  the  best  composers  of  the  world.  He 
was  evidently  especially  fond  of  Italian  and  English  music,  but 
it  is  certain  that  Handel  was  the  favorite.  In  the  list  directly 
above  the  following  Germans  are  mentioned :  Handel,  Abel, 
Stamitz,  Schmidt;  also  the  English  composer  Stanley  who 
was  a  particular  friend  of  Handel,  and  his  music,  like  all  good 
music  of  England  at  that  time,  must  have  been  modeled  after 
that  of  Handel;  then  there  was  Lord  Kelly  who  studied 
music  in  Germany.  It  is  probable  that  Hopkinson  made  the 
acquaintance  of  these  composers  through  the  London  music 
masters  who  had  settled  in  Philadelphia,  and,  if  that  is  so,  it 
naturally  follows  that  other  pupils  obtained  some  knowledge 
of  the  great  masters. 

It  is  not  the  purpose  of  this  article  to  trace  the  development 
of  music  in  Philadelphia;  but  at  some  future  time  articles  will 
be  presented  showing  to  what  extent  German  church  music 
was   present   in   Philadelphia   during   the   eighteenth   century,^^ 

13  Cf.  for  this  and  following,  Sonneck,  Francis  Hopkinson,  &c.,  pp.  32, 
34- 

"  Further  information  will  be  found  in  Dubbs,  H.,  German  Hymnology 
of  Pennsylvania  (1882).  Also  Haussmann,  German-American  Hymnology, 
1683-1800  [in  Americana  Germanica,  1898,  Vol.  II,  No.  3,  p.   11,  ff]. 


Alexander  Rehmgle  297 

and  how  important  were  the  German  organ-builders  John  G. 
Klemm,  David  Tannenberg,  and  Philip  Feyring — all  of  Phila- 
delphia. 

It  has  been  shown  that  there  was  secular  music  in  Phila- 
delphia  at  an  early  date.  That  music  did  not  die  out.  but  con- 
tinued in  favor  with  the  people,  while  musical  taste  constantly 
progressed,  and  even  during  the  impoverished  times  of  the 
Revolutionary  War  concerts  were  given.  The  last  fifteen  years 
of  the  eighteenth  century  was  the  "Bliitezeit"  of  music  in  Phila- 
delphia, and  its  richness  in  musical  ability  is  seen  in  no  other 
city  at  that  time.^^  During  this  last  period  Philadelphia  had 
a  number  of  important  musicians  and  composers,  among  whom 
were  Benjamin  Carr,  George  Schetky,  Raynor  Taylor,  Alex- 
ander Reinagle,  Philip  Phile  and  Philip  Roth.^^ 

Of  these  composers  Alexander  Reinagle,  if  not  most  im- 
portant, stands  at  least  in  the  front  rank.  He  was  born  in  1756 
at  Portsmouth,  England,  of  Austrian  parents. ^^  He  seems  to 
have  inherited,  as  did  his  brothers  Joseph  and  Hugh,  a  love  of 
music  from  his  father,  who  was  a  skillful  musician.  Alexander 
studied  music  in  Scotland  with  Raynor  Taylor,  who  later  became 
one  of  the  leading  musicians  in  Philadelphia.  The  material 
concerning  Reinagle  before  his  arrival  in  America  is  scanty, 
but  the  few  data  there  are  show  that  he  was  known  to  the 
musical  world  of  that  time.  In  a  memorandum  book^^  of  his, 
preserved  in  the  Library  of  Congress,  is  an  account  of  a  trip 
which  he  took  to  Lisbon  1784-5  in  company  with  his  brother 


15  For  information  concerning  programs  in  different  cities  consult  Son- 
neck,  Early  Concert  Life  in  America  [1907,  Breitkopf  and  Hartel,  N.  Y.l. 

1®  Short  biographies  in  Sonneck's  Early  Secular  American  Music  (1905) 
also  his  articles  in  Sammelh'dnde  der  Internationalen  Musik  Gesellschaft, 
1901,  1906. 

"  Sonneck,  Quarterly  Magazine  of  International  Music  Society,  October- 
December,   1906,  p.   112. 

"  O.  G.  Sonneck  first  called  attention  to  this  book  in  his  article  in  the 
Quarterly  Magazine  of  International  Music  Society  quoted  above  p.  113. 


298  Alexander  Reinagle 

Hugh,  an  eminent  'cellist,^^  who  was  sick  with  consumption. 
They  arrived  in  Lisbon  the  twenty-third  of  October,  and  Rei- 
nagle tells  of  their  lodgings  there,  expenses,  etc.  Of  special 
interest  is  an  item  for  January,  1785  : 

"Had  a  Concert  in  the  Assembly  Room  8th  Jany. — Per- 
formed to  the  Queen  and  R.  family  Sunday  i6th  July.  Rec'd. 
a  present  from   her  Majesty  of   50   Molds." 

After  burying  his  brother  Hugh,  who  died  the  nineteenth 
of  March,  1785,  he  "embarked  from  Lisbon  Sat.  23d  April 
sail'd  24th  &  arrived  in  Portsmouth  Tuesday  17th  May.  Made 
in  Lisbon: 

By  Concert .£  100 — . . — 

By  Queen 67 — . . — 

Two  P.  Fortes  . 30 — . . — 

Four  Ditto  (?)    35 — .  .  — 

Teaching 3 — 12 — 

Fund  (?) 31 — 10 — 

267       2 

Expences  At  Murrays    £7 — . .  — 

Medicines 23 — 

Diet   from   15  Mar.   to  23d  April  at  Mrs. 

Morleys 51 

In  all  Diet   £58 

Medicines   23 

81 

From  these  statements  it  would  appear  that  his  trip  finan- 
cially was  a  decided  success.  It  would  seem  from  the  large 
sums  of  money  obtained  from  his  performances  at  Lisbon,  that 
he  must  have  been  well  known  as  a  prominent  musician.     There 


"  Cf.  Articles  on  Hugh  Reinagle,  in  Grove's  Dictionary  of  Music,  and  in 
'Dictionary  of  National  Biography". 


Alexander  Reinagle  299 

is  further  evidence  of  his  standing  in  the  musical  world  dis- 
closed by  O.  G.  Sonneck  in  an  article  in  the  Quarterly  Maga- 
zine of  the  International  Music  Society,"  entitled  "Zwei  Briefe 
C.  Ph.  Em.  Bachs  an  Alex.  Reinagle."^''  They  were  evidently 
good  friends,  as  Bach  writes: 

"Quand  Vous  m'ecrivez  une  autre  fois,  ne  manquez  pas 
de  me  marquer  votre  sort,  auquel  je  m'interesse  beaucoup.  En 
meme  temps  je  vous  prie  de  me  faire  avoir  votre  portrait  et 
celui  de  Mr.  votre  frere  [Hugh],  seulement  en  dessin  pour  les 
placer  dans  mon  cabinet  de  portraits  des  musiciens.  Cela  me 
servira  d'aide  dans  le  souvenir  de  votre  amitie." 

This  letter  is  dated  Hamburg,  Feb.  25,  1785. 

The  other  letter  is  without  date,  but  Sonneck  conjectures 
that  it  was  written  the  last  of  1785  or  the  beginning  of  1786. 
It  begins  as  follows : 
"Liebwehrtester  Freund, 

Ich  bedaure  von  Herzen  den  Verlust  Ihres  lieben  und  bra- 
ven  Herrn  Bruders  eben  so  sehr,  als  ich  mich  iiber  Ihre  gute 
Aufnahme  in  Lissabon  und  gliickliche  Wiederkunft  in  London 
gefreut  habe." 

The  remainder  of  the  letter  has  to  do  with  a  business 
proposition  which  Reinagle  had  made  to  Bach  for  publishing 
some  of  the  compositions  of  the  latter  in  England,  This  pro- 
ject apparently  was  not  carried  out. 

These  extracts  merely  show  that  Reinagle  before  coming 
to  this  country  was  a  capable  musician,  was  known  as  such  by 
prominent  musicians  in  Europe,  and  probably  through  his  in- 
timacy with  Bach  would  have  studied  quite  extensively  the  com- 
position of  German  musicians. 

It  was  in  the  year  1786  that  Reinagle  arrived  in  New 
York  with  the  intention  of  settling.  He  inserted  the  following 
advertisement  in  the  Nezv  York  Independent  Journal : 

20  In  this  article  these  letters  are  given  in  full.     The  originals  are  de- 
posited in  the  Library  of  Congress. 


300  Alexander  Reinagle 

"Mr.  Reinagle,  member  of  the  Society  of  Musicians  in 
London,  gives  lessons  on  the  pianoforte,  harpsichord  and 
violin."2i 

Evidently  he  did  not  prosper  according  to  his  expectations 
in  New  York,  since  the  same  year  he  established  himself  in 
Philadelphia.  He  at  once  became  identified  with  the  musical 
life  of  this  city,  and  in  conjunction  with  H.  Capron,  W.  Brown 
and  A.  Juhan,  Reinagle  continued  the  "City  Concerts"  insti- 
tuted in  1783.22  The  first  programme  played  in  that  year  will 
give  some  idea  of  the  taste  of  the  people  of  that  epoch. 

FIRST  CONCERT,  OCT.  19,  1786. 

Act  I. 

Favorite  Symphonic   Vanhall. 

Song,  Mr.   Capron    Gretrey. 

Sonata,  Piano  Forte Haydn  and  Reinagle. 

Act  IL 

Concerto  Flute   Windling. 

A  Favorite  Ronde. 

Solo  Violoncello   Tilliere. 

Act  ni. 

Concerto  Violin   Cramer. 

New  Symphony  Haydon^^ 

Miscellaneous  Concerto. 

It  will  be  seen  by  this  programme  that  German  music  had 
its  share  of  importance,  and  in  later  concerts  the  compositions 
of  Mozart,  Haydn,  Handel,  Bach,  Pleyel,  Abel,  Stamitz, 
Schmittbauer,  Heimberger,  etc.,  were  given.  Undoubtedly  the 
high  gr^de  of  these  concerts  and  the  predominance  of  the  works 
of  German  composers,  was  due  to  the  musical  taste  of  Reinagle. 


21  Quoted  from  History  of  the  Pianoforte  in  America,  by  Daniel  Spillane. 

22  Sonneck,  Early  Concert  Life,  p.  78. 

23  Quoted  from  ditto,  p.  81. 


Alexander    Reinagle  301 

Concerning  the  residence  of  this  German  American  com- 
poser in  Philadelphia,  his  contemporaries  have  something  to 
say.  At  that  time  Wignell  was  an  important  factor  in  the  the- 
atrical world  and  in  the  fall  of  1791  he  "associated  himself  with 
Mr.  Reinagle,  a  professor  of  music  in  Philadelphia,  and  a  com- 
poser of  some  note  of  that  time."^^  They  founded  the  first  Chest- 
nut Street  Theatre,  "the  corner  stone  of  which  was  laid  by  Mr. 
Reinagle,  a  Master  Mason,  in  Masonic  form."^^ 

The  new  theatre  was  opened  to  the  public  for  the  first  time 
on  Saturday  evening,  April  2d,  1793,  "with  a  grand  concert  of 
vocal  and  instrumental  music."^^ 

"The  orchestra  department  was  under  the  direction  of  Man- 
ager Reinagle,  and  the  musicians  were  deemed  equal  in  ability 
with  the  stage  artists.  In  truth  the  orchestra  contained  about 
twenty  accomplished  musicians,  many  of  them  of  great  notoriety 
as  concerto  players  on  their  respective  instruments. 

"The  concentration  of  that  early  date  of  so  much  dramatic, 
operatic  and  instrumental  talent,  introduced  a  new  era  of  theat- 
ricals here. 

"Who  that  once  saw  old  manager  Reinagle  in  his  official 
capacity,  could  ever  forget  his  dignified  personne.  He  presided 
at  his  piano  forte,  looking  the  very  personification  of  the  patri- 
arch of  music — investing  the  science  of  harmonious  sounds,  as 
well  as  the  dramatic  school,  with  a  moral  influence,  reflecting 
and  adorning  its  salutary  uses  with  high  respectability  and 
polished  manners.  His  appearance  was  of  the  reverent  and  im- 
pressive kind,  which  at  once  inspired  the  universal  respect  of  the 
audience.  Such  was  Reinagle's  imposing  appearance,  that  it 
awed  the  disorderly  of  the  galleries,  or  the  fop  of  annoying 
propensities,  and  impertinent  criticism  of  the  box  lobby  into 
decorum. 


24  Durang,  History  of  the  Stage  in  Philadelphia,  chapter  15. 

25  Durang,  History  of  the  Stage  in  Philadelphia,  chapter  19. 

26  Durang,  History  of  Stage  in  Philadelphia,  chapter  19. 


302  Alexander  Reinagle 

"It  was  inspiring  to  behold  the  polished  Reinagle  saluting 
from  his  seat  (before  the  grand  square  piano  forte  in  the 
orchestra)  the  highest  respectability  of  the  city,  as  it  entered 
the  boxes  to  take  seats.  It  was  a  scene  before  the  curtain  that 
suggested  a  picture  of  the  master  of  private  ceremonies  receiving 
his  invited  guests  at  the   fashionable  drawing   room, 

"Mr.  Reinagle  was  a  gentleman  and  a  musician.  His  com- 
positions evinced  decided  cleverness  and  originality,  and  some 
of  his  accompaniments  to  the  old  opera  music  were  much  ad- 
mired by  good  judges. "^"^ 

An  article  by  William  McKoy  presents  a  clearer  picture  of 
Mr.  Reinagle.     He  says: 

"Mr.  Reinagle,  one  of  the  Managers,  and  a  Professor  of 
Music,  used  to  be  seen,  but  only  on  particular  occasions,  seated 
at  the  Piano  Forte,  then  standing  against  the  stage,  in  the  rear 
of  the  band  [orchestra]  for  the  mere  purpose  of  touching  a  few 
notes  solo,  by  way  of  accompaniment  to  the  silvery  tones  of  Mrs. 
Wignell.  *  *  *  Mr.  Reinagle,  while  thus  enjoying  the  effect 
of  her  inimitable  chant,  exhibited  to  the  audience  a  head  not  un- 
like that  of  Louis  the  XIV  but  divested  of  the  simplicity,  bushy, 
powdered  hair,  large  high  forehead,  and  round  full  face,  illu- 
minated by  silver  mounted  spectacle  glasses,  a  perceptible  smirk 
at  all  times  about  the  mouth,  and  an  extrordinary  depth  of 
dimple  in  his  cheek,  while  sitting  there  and  surveying  the  irri- 
tability of  Mr.  Gillingham,  the  Leader  of  the  Band,  on  his  being- 
obliged  to  leave  the  music  of  Handel  and  Mozart,  and  strike  off 
into  the  'President's  March.'  "^^ 

In  Durang's  account,  the  compositions  of  Reinagle  are 
spoken  of  highly ;  there  is  the  testimony  of  another  man,  an  actor 
in  Reinagle's  company,  to  substantiate  the  above  eulogy,  as  fol- 
lows (1804)  : 

"By  the  death  of  Wignell     *     *     *     ^1-,^  management  de- 


27  Durang,  chapter  19. 

28  Poulson's  Daily  Advertiser,  January  13,  1829. 


Alexander  Reinagle  303 

volved  upon  his  widow  and  Reinagle.  *  *  *  'pj^g  musical 
department  fell  of  course  to  the  charge  of  Reinagle,  whose  com- 
positions and  adaptations  were  deserved  favorites  with  the  pub- 
lic."'« 

Again,  there  is  the  testimony  of  a  man  of  our  own  times 
to  show  that  the  above  praise  was  not  undeserved.  Speaking  of 
some  of  Reinagle's  sonatas,  O.  G.  Sonneck  says : 

"These  sonatas  follow  closely  in  the  footsteps  of  Ph.  Em. 
Bach  and  the  early  Haydn  without  being  void  of  individuality. 
If  the  larger  works  of  Reinagle  all  were  as  fine  and  effective  as 
these  sonatas  he  must  have  been  a  composer  of  merit. "^" 

Sonneck  has  published  titles  of  forty-two  works  ascribed 
to  Reinagle, ^^  some  of  which  are  still  in  existence.  These  com- 
positions include  sonatas,  overtures,  preludes,  songs  opera  mu- 
sic, adaptations,  accompaniments,  etc. 

From  all  this  evidence  it  will  appear  that  Alexander  Rei- 
nagle must  have  been  a  great  force  in  music  in  Philadelphia, 
and  did  much  to  shape  the  taste  of  the  people  for  good  music — 
especially  for  German  music,  and  may  thus  be  called  the  greatest 
German  American  musician  of  that  century. 

Concerning  his  home  life,  it  is  known  that  Reinagle  was 
married  and  had  two  sons,  Hugh,  a  scenic  painter  of  some  note, 
and  Thomas.  The  later  years  of  his  life,  Reinagle  spent  in  the 
management  of  a  theatre  in  Baltimore,  where  he  died  September 
21,  1809.^2 


29  Wood,  Personal  Recollections  of  the  Stage,  p.  104. 

30  Sonneck,  Early  Secular  American  Music,  p.   139. 

31  Cf.  Sonneck,  Early  Secular  American  Music,  p.   139. 

32  Durang,  chapters   19  and  24. 


304  Alexander   Reinagle 

APPENDIX. 
Works  of  Alexander  Reinagle. 

1787. 

1.  Overture. 

2.  "A  Select  Collection  of  the  most  favorite  Scots  tunes. 
With  variations  for  the  pianoforte  or  harpsichord." 

3.  A  song  (newly  composed). 

1788. 

4.  ''Federal  March,  as  performed  in  the  grand  procession 
in  Philadelphia,  the  4th  of  July,  1788.  Composed  and  adapted 
for  the  pianoforte,  violin,  or  German  flute." 

1789. 

5.  Song. 

"Adieu  thou  dreary  pile." 

Arranged  for  pianoforte  or  harpsichord  by  Reinagle. 

6.  Chorus,  sung  before  Gen.  Washington,  as  he  passed 
under  the  triumphal  arch  on  Trenton  Bridge,  April  21,  1789. 
"Set  to  music  and  dedicated  by  permission  to  Mrs.  Washington." 

7.  Song.     "In  vain  fond  youth  you  would  conceal." 

8.  Song.    "My  soul  is  thine,  sweet  Nora." 

9.  Song.     "The  Soldier  tried,  etc." 

10.  Song.     "Tantive  back  forward." 

11.  Song.     " 'Tis  not  the  bloom  on  Damon's  cheek." 
(These  songs  were  arranged  by  R.  for  pianoforte  or  harp- 
sichord.) 

12.  Overture.     "La  Schiava"    (Piccini). 

13.  Overture  to  opera  "Maria"  (Shield). 
(These  overtures  arranged  for  pf.  by  R.) 

1791. 

14.  Song.     "Winter."     Set  by  R.  with  pf.  ace. 

1793- 

15.  Miscellaneous  quartet.     Nov.  16,  1793. 


Alexander   Reinagle  3^5 

1794. 

16.  Song.     "America,  Commerce  and  Freedom."  By  R. 

17.  "La  Chasse"    (Rosetti).     Arranged  for  pianoforte  or 
Harpsichord  by  R. 

18.  ''Concerto   On   the   Improved    Pianoforte   with   Addi- 
tional keys. 

19.  "La  Foret  Noire  (serious  pantomime.     Overture^  etc., 
entirely  new,  composed  by  Mr.  Reinagle." 

20.  Occasional  Overture. 

21.  "Preludes  in  three  classes,  for  the  improvement  of  prac- 
titioners on  the  pianoforte." 

22.  "Robin    Hood"    (comic   opera),   original   overture   by 
Baumgarten,  additional  airs  by  R. 

23.  "Slaves   in   Algiers"    (play   interspersed   with   songs), 

Music  by  R. 

24.  "Spanish   Barber"    (opera   translated    from    Beaumar- 
chais,  by  G.  Colemann),  additional  airs  by  Reinagle  and  Carr. 

1795- 

25.  "Harlequin   shipwreck'd"    (Pantomime).      New  music 

by  R. 

26.  "Harlequins    invasion"    (Pantomime).      New    medley 

overture  by  R. 

27.  "Volunteers"   (comic  opera).     Music  and  overture  en- 
tirely new. 

28.  "The  Purse"   (musical  drama  by  J.  J.  Cross),  accom- 
paniments and  new  airs  by  R. 

29.  "Auld  Robin  Gray"   (opera),  new  music  and  a  Scot- 
tish medley  overture  by  R. 

1796. 

30.  "Mountaineers"  (comic  opera),  accompaniments  by  R. 

31.  "Pierre  de  Province  and  La  Belle  Magulone"  [?],  new 
music  by  R. 


3o6  Alexander    Reinagie 

2,2.  "The  Shamrock"  (Irish  dance),  Irish  medley  over- 
ture by  R. 

33.  "Witches  of  the  rocks  or  Harlequin  everywhere"  (Pan- 
tomime), "with  an  entire  new  overture,  songs,  choruses,  and  reci- 
tations composed  by  Mr.  Reinagie." 

1797. 

34.  "Columbus"    (historical  play),  incidental  music  by  R. 

35.  Savoyard  (musical  farce),  music  by  R. 

1798. 

36.  "Italian  monk"  (opera),  music  and  accompaniment 
by  R. 

1799. 

37.  "Blue  beard"   (opera),  acompaniments  by  Reinagie. 

Probably  before    1800    (no   date). 

38.  "Collection  of  favorite  songs,  divided  into  two  books. 
The  basses  rendered  easy  and  natural  for  the  pianforte  or 
harpsichord  by  Alex.  Reinagie." 

1800. 

.  39.  Masonic  overture. 

40.  "Naval  pillar"  (musical  entertainment),  accompani- 
ments by  R. 

41.  "Pizarro,"  by  Kotzebue;  adapted  by  R.  B.  Sheridan; 
music  by  Reinagie  and  Raynor  Taylor.^' 


33  Sonneck,  Early  Secular  American  Music,  for  these  dates. 


PROVINCIALISMS  OF  SOUTHEASTERN  PENNSYL- 
VANIA. 

PROFESSOR  HEYDRICK 
Millersville  Normal  School. 

A  List  of  Dialect  Expressions,  chiefly  of  Pennsylvania-German 
origin,  found  in  Lancaster  and  adjoining  counties. 

The  following  list  attempts  to  record  the  commoner  dialectal 
expressions  used  in  the  counties  of  Lancaster,  York,  Lebanon, 
Chester,  Berks  and  Dauphin,  in  Pennsylvania;  with  occasional 
references  to  other  localities.  These  expressions  have  been  gath' 
ered  from  students  coming  from  these  counties,  and  have  been 
verified  by  subsequent  inquiries.  The  basis  of  selection  was  the 
Century  dictionary.  All  words  not  given  in  the  Century,  and  all 
words  given  there  as  local,  obsolete,  United  States,  etc.,  have 
been  included.     The  list  may  be  classified  as  follows : 

1.  Words  marked  U.  S.,  local,  etc 31 

2.  Words  marked  obsolete   9 

3.  New  words,  as  Belsnickel 3^ 

4.  New  compounds,  as  blow-horn    1 1 

5.  New  formations    on  basis  of  old  words,  as  catty 5 

6.  New  modifications  of  old  words,  as  orless   6 

7.  New    abbreviations    i 

8.  Words  used  in  new  functions,  as  hub,  v 10 

9.  Words  differing  from  standard  inflectional  forms    .  .  4 

10.  Expressions  differing  from  standard  forms  of  syntax, 

as  "walk  the  road  up"    7 

11.  Words  in  new  idioms 53 

12.  Words  in  new  meanings   30 

198 
(307) 


3o8  Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 

The  above  classification  follows  closely  that  suggested  by 
the  American  Dialect  Spciety.  A  classification  according  to 
source  shows  that  ii8  of  these  expressions,  or  more  than  half, 
are  traceable  directly  to  the  influence  of  the  Pennsylvania  Ger- 
man dialect.  This  is  due  to  the  nature  of  the  population  in  these 
countries.  The  country  was  settled  by  Germans,  who  came  from 
the  Rhenish  Palatinate  in  great  numbers  in  the  first  half  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  These  people  spoke  German,  a  South  Ger- 
man dialect,  much  like  that  spoken,  in  different  varieties,  to-day 
in  the  Rheinpfalz  and  Westrich.  This  dialect,  slightly  modified, 
and  with  a  few  English  words  added,  is  the  vernacular  of  the 
of  the  common  people  in  the  counties  to-day.  There  are  thou- 
sands of  homes  where  not  a  word  of  English  is  spoken,  and  in 
the  town  and  cities  on  market-days  one  hears  the  dialect  every- 
where. It  is  commonly  called  Pennsylvania  Dutch,  but  the  name 
is  misleading.  It  is  not  Dutch  at  all,  nor  is  it  a  mongrel  dialect 
of  Germanized  English  like  the  Breitmann  Ballads,  but,  as  Pro- 
fessor Haldeman  has  characterized  it,  "South  German  dialect 
with  an  infusion  of  English."*  or  more  exactly  as  Learned  shows 
the  dialect  of  the  Rhenish  palatinate.**  In  vocabulary  and  inflec- 
tion it  differs  somewhat  from  High  German ;  in  idiom  it  is  al- 
most identical. 

The  original  vocabulary  of  Pennsylvania  German  was  not 
large,  and  to  supply  its  deficiencies  English  words  were  intro- 
duced. As  the  country  became  more  thickly  settled,  many  Eng- 
lish-speaking people  came  into  these  localities,  and  by  association 
with  them  the  Germans  learned  other  English  words,  which  were 
used  sometimes  in  a  pure  form,  as  balloon,  sometimes  altered  to 
conform  to   German  structure,  as  ge-satisUed,  ge-sentenced. 

In  these  counties,  then,  as  Mr.  A.  J.  Ellis  has  pointed  out  in 


^Pennsylvania  Dutch. 

**  The  Pennsylvania  German  Dialect. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  309 

his  introduction  to  Haldemann's  Pennsylvania  Dutch,  we  have  a 
situation  Hke  that  in  England  in  Chaucer's  time;  two  languages 
are  spoken  side  by  side,  and  each  influences  the  other.  For  not 
only  did  the  Pennsylvania  Germans  borrow  English  words,  but 
when  they  spoke  English  they  held  to  Pennsylvania  German 
idioms,  to  some  Pennsylvania  German  words,  and  the  English- 
speaking  people  of  the  neighborhood  insensibly  fell  into  some  of 
these  locutions,  so  that  to-day  in  these  counties  you  find  people 
of  Scotch,  Irish  and  English  descent  using  many  of  the  forms 
given  here,  and  quite  unconscious  that  they  are  not  speaking  the 
purest  English.  A  paper  sack  called  a  tut,  dried  apples  are 
snits,  fat  pork  is  speck,  and  these  are  the  terms  in  general  use. 
The  extent  to  which  the  English  of  these  localities  has  been  in- 
fluenced by  Pennsylvania  German  has  never,  I  think,  been  thor- 
oughly investigated.  Professor  Haldemann  (Pennsylvania 
Dutch,  ch.  IX)  gives  a  list  of  such  words,  but  he  has  only  24, 
and  includes  some  words,  such  as  chipmunk  and  sandman,  not 
of  Pennsylvania  German  origin,  and  others,  such  as  tsitterly  and 
fackle,  which  are  not  generally  used  by  English-speaking  people. 
Mr.  Grumbine*  gives  a  list  of  expressions,  almost  all  of  which 
are  evidently  of  Pennsylvania  German  origin,  though  spook  and 
coal-oil  may  be  doubted.  His  list  numbers  26  words.  In  the 
list  accompanying  this  there  are  118  words  or  idioms  derived 
from  Pennsylvania  German,  and  probably  others  could  be  added. 
In  this  list  the  following  facts  are  stated :  meaning  of  word ; 
use  in  a  sentence ;  counties  of  Pennsylvania  where  found ;  deriva- 
tion, if  known,  and  occurence  or  non-occurence  in  the  Century 
dictionary.  The  abbreviations  of  names  of  counties  are  as  fol- 
lows ; 


*Trans.  Am.  Philol.  Ass.  XVII.  app.  xiii. 


3IO  Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 


Ad., 

Adams. 

Lack. 

,  Lackawanna. 

Bed., 

Bedford. 

Lan. , 

Lancaster. 

Camb. , 

Cambria. 

Leb., 

Lebanon. 

Cen. , 

Centre. 

Leh., 

Lehigh. 

Ches. , 

Chester. 

Luz. , 

Luzerne. 

Cum., 

Cumberland. 

Men, 

Mercer. 

Dau., 

Dauphin. 

Mif., 

Mifflin. 

Del., 

Delaware. 

Per., 

Perry. 

Fran. , 

Franklin. 

Sch., 

Schuylkill. 

Jun., 

Juniata. 

Y.,  York. 

In  giving  the  derivation,  where  the  word  or  idiom  is  com- 
mon to  both  Pennsylvania  German  and  High  German  I  have 
given  both  forms,  though  there  is  no  doubt  but  that  the  express- 
sion  comes  in  through  the  Pennsylvania  German.  In  giving 
Pennsylvania  German  words  I  have  followed  the  orthography  of 
Home's  Manual.     The  books  referred  to  are  as  follows : 

C. — Century  Dictionary. 

Grumbine — Article  by  L.  L.  Grumbine  in  Trans.  Am.  Philol. 
Ass.  XVII,  Appendix,  XIII. 

Haldemann — Pennsylvania  Dutch.  S.  S.  Haldemann.  Phila. 
1872. 

Hoover — Enemies  in  the  Rear.  Francis  T.  Hoover,  Boston, 
1895. 

Home — Pennsylvania  German  Manual.  A.  R.  Home.  Allen- 
town,  Pa.,  1896. 

Learned — the  Pennsylvania  German  Dialect.  Part  I.  Marion 
Dexter  Learned.     Baltimore,  1889. 

S. — Standard  Dictionary. 

W. — Webster's  International  Dictionary. 

After.  Afternoon  (slang). 

"I'll  see  him  this  after." 
fr.  Lan.,  Lack.,  Leb..  Philada.,  Bucks,  Sch.,  Chester,  Ad.,  Cent. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  311 

All.  All  gone ;  exhausted. 

"The  butter  is  all;  you  must  order  some." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Sch.,  Berks,  Per.,  Ad. 
Cr.  Pa.  Ger.  ol;  Ger.  all  (adv.),  so  used. 
The  expression  half -all,  i.  e.,  half  gone,  is  also  used. 
C.-O. 
Lan.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Berks,  Leb.,  Sch.,  Camb. 

All  both.  Both. 

"They  all  both  went  walking." 
Cr.  Pa.  Ger.  dl  bad;  Ger.  alle  beidc. 
"They  all  both  was  lately,  but  they're  two  miles  away  now." — 

Hoover,  p.  261. 
C-O. 

Already.  Expletive,  used  with  past  tense. 

"I  came  this  morning  already." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Per.,  Mif.,  Ches.,  Sch.,  Bucks. 
Cr.  Pa.  G.  shun,  Ger.  schon. 

"A  sort  of  auxiliary  [adverb]  supposed  to  be  necessary  to  com- 
plete the  idea  of  the  past  tense." — Grumbine. 
C.-O. 

Allow.  Intend. 

"I  allow  to  sow  my  wheat  to-morrow." 
Ad.,  Ches.,  Mif.,  Lan.,  Y.,  Blair,  Cent,  Bucks. 
C— Coll.  U.  S. 

Any  more.  Intensive. 

"I  can't  find  my  hat  any  more." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Leb.,  Berks. 
Cr.  Pa.  Ger.  nimd;  Ger.  nimmermehr. 
C.-O. 

Ashamed.  Bashful,  timid  (without  any  consciousness  of  guilt). 

"Don't  notice  the  child ;  he's  ashamed." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Ad.,  Berks. 

Possibly  Fr.   Ger.  Sdiam,  one  meaning  of  which  is  modesty, 
bashfulness. 
[This  is  not  due  to  German  influence,  but  is  provincial  English 

usage,  in  Delaware,  for  example. — The  Editor.] 
C.-O. 
W.-O. 
Ss. — Abashed,  disconcerted. 


312  Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 

At.  To,  with  verbs  of  motion. 

"He  went  at  the  barn." 
Ad.,  Leb.,  Y. 
In  Pa.  Ger.  an  would  be  used.     In  some  cases  an  is  correctly 

translated  by  at;  so  at  comes  to  be  used  generally  where  an 

would  be  used  in  Pa.  Ger. 
C.-O. 

At.  On,  upon. 

"Did  you  put  salt  at  the  potatoes  ?" 
Lan.,  Cum.,  Dau.,  Ad. 
Cr.  Ger.  An  is  used  for  on  and  at. 
C.-O. 

Awhile.  Expletive,  now;  often  of  no  special  force. 

"Eat  your  supper  awhile"  equals  "Eat  your  supper." 

Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Ad. 

(Cf.  already.) 

Cr.  Pa.  Ger.  weil;  Ger.  eine  weile. 

Sometimes  this  is  used  to  imply  expectation  of  something  to 

follow,  as  in  the  example  above  it  might  mean  before  the 

others. 
C.-O. 

Bag,  v.  Play  truant. 

"I  bagged  my  geometry  yesterday." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Bucks,  Leb.,  Montg.,  Sch. 
It  is  also  used  as  a  noun  in  the  phrase  "play  bags,"  i.  e.,  play 

truant. 
C-O. 

Barrack.  Hay-shed. 

Ad.,  Lan.  and  Loudon  Co.,  Va. 
C— Used  in  Md. 

Barrick.  Hill. 

"There's  a  barrick  across  the  creek." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Leh.,  Y. 

Cr.  Pa.  Ger.  bdrg;  Ger.  berg.     [Briick?] 
C. — Bergh,  bargh ;  prov.  Eng. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  313 

Beal,  v.  (Beel).  Fester, 

"I  ran  a  splinter  into  my  finger  and  it  healed." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Camb.,  Sch.,  Mif.,  Y.,  Ad. 
(Used  also  in  Canada.) 
C. — Obsolete  except  in  Scotland. 
W. — Prov.  Eng. 
S. — Dial,  or  obs. 

Belsnickel.  I.  Santa  Claus.    2.  Mummers  who  come  on 

Christmas  Eve. 

Lan.,  Y.,  Bucks,  Cent.,  Ad.,  Leb.,  Leh.,  Sch. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  belsnik'l;  Ger.  Pehnickel  or  Pelzmadel.     (Coll.) 
This  word  is  used  in  both  senses  often  in  the  same  locality.     It 
is  not  exactly  equivalent  to  Santa  Claus,  as  the  Belsnickel  carries  a 
whip  to  punish  bad  children,  as  well  as  nuts  and  candy  for  the  good 
ones.    In  some  localities  the  Belsnickel  still  comes  on  Christmas  Eve, 
to  the  terror  and  delight  of  the  children. 
C.-O. 

Better  would.  Had  better. 

"You  better  would  take  an  umbrella." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Cum.,  Dau.,  Bucks. 
Cr.  Pa.  Ger.  bes'r  dash't  [equals  H.  G.  ldtest'\. 
C.-O. 

Blow-horn.  Tin  horn;  a  dinner  horn. 

"Do  you  folks  use  a  bell  or  a  blow-horn  f" 
Lan.,  Ad.,  Leb.,  Sch.  [cf.,  He's  a  blow-horn], 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  blosd-horn. 
C.-O. 


(To  be  continued.) 


BIBLIOGRAPHY     OF     GERMAN     AMERICANA     FOR 
THE  YEAR  1906. 

William  Godfrey  Bek. 

The  Pennsylvania  German.  January,  1906.  Professor  Israel  Daniel 
Rupp.  P.  C.  Croll.  —  The  Perkiomen  Region  and  its  People. 
A  Descriptive  and  Historical  Survey.  H.  A.  Schuler.  —  The 
River  Brethren.  An  Historical  Sketch.  John  K.  Miller.  — 
Zion,  the  "Old  Red  Church"  in  West  Brunswick  Township, 
Schuylkill  Co.,  Pa.  H.  A.  Weller.  —  The  Spelling  of  our  Dia- 
lect.    H.  A.  Schuler. 

January  and  March.    The  Gnadenhiitten  Massacres. 

March,  1906.  William  Pepper,  M.  D.,  LL.  D.  P.  C.  Croll.  — 
A  Garrison-Town  in  Pennsylvania  Fifty  Years  Ago.  Theo- 
dore M.  Riley.  —  The  Pennsylvania-German  in  Fiction.  Ell- 
wood  Roberts.  —  Tombstone  Inscriptions  from  the  Graveyard 
of  "Little  Tulpehocken  Church."     M.  A.  Gruber. 

May,  1906.  Rachel  Bahn,  the  York  County  Poetess.  J.  H. 
Betz.  —  The  Pennsylvania-German  Society — Its  Origin.  Its 
Mission.  Its  Growth.  H.  M.  M.  Richards.  —  The  First 
Printed  Pennsylvania-German  Poem.  H.  A.  Schuler.  —  Han- 
jorg  Kistler  and  His  Descendants.    Chas.  E.  Kistler. 

May,  September,  October  and  November,  1906.  The  Wild 
Rose  of  Bethlehem. 

July,  1906.  The  Pennsylvania-German  as  Pionier  and  Home- 
builder.  F.  J.  F.  Schantz.  —  The  Pennsylvania-German  as 
Farmer.  Geo.  F.  Mays.  —  The  Pennsylvania-German  as  Man- 
ufacturer and  Merchant.  L.  R.  Harley.  —  The  Pennsylvania- 
German  as  Scientist.  D.  H.  Bergey.  —  The  Pennsylvania-Ger- 
man as  Artist.  John  W.  Jordan.  —  The  Pennsylvania-German 
as  Patriot  and  Soldier.  J.  G.  Rosengarten.  —  The  Pennsyl- 
vania-German in  Law,  —  The  Pennsylvania-German  as  States- 

(314) 


Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6.       315 

man  and  Legislator.  Geo.  M.  Jones.  —  The  Pennsylvania-Ger- 
man as  Governor.  V.  S.  Koons.  —  The  Pennsylvania-German 
as  Printer  and  Publisher.  —  Early  German  Musical  Publica- 
tions in  Pennsylvania.  A.  Stapleton.  —  The  Pennsylvania- 
German  in  Literature.  Reginald  W.  Kaufmann.  —  Education 
Among  the  Pennsylvania-Germans.  H.  A.  Schuler.  —  The 
Pennsylvania-German  as  Churchman.     Lucy  Forney  Bittinger. 

German  Church-Life  in    Pennsylvania.      J.  H.   Dubbs.  — 

The  Pennsylvania-German  as  Champion  of  Religious  Liberty. 
H.  W.  Kriebel.  —  Characteristics  of  the  Pennsylvania-German. 
Sidney  Geo.  Fischer.  —  Some  Pennsylvania-German  Statistics. 
H.  A.  Schuler.  —  Where  the  Pennsylvania-German  Has  Been 
First.  —  The  Pennsylvania  Chautauqua.  P.  C.  Croll.  —  The 
Pennsylvania-German  as  Citizen.     Thomas  C.  Zimmermann. 

September,  1906.  —  Rev.  John  William  Weber:  Pioneer 
Reformed  Preacher  of  Western  Pennsylvania.  D.  L.  Fouse.  — 
Weather  Prognostications  and  Superstitions  Among  the  Penn- 
sylvania-Germans. John  Baer  Stoudt.  —  Our  Pennsylvania 
Wives  and  Sweethearts.     Geo.  T.  Ettinger. 

October,  1906.  Pennsylvania  Genealogies.  By  many  authors. 
—  A  Genealogical  Trip  to  Switzerland.  Oscar  Kuhns.  —  Ger- 
man-American Genealogies,  Chiefly  Pennsylvanian,  Found  in 
the  New  York  Public  Library.    Richard  E.  Helbig. 

November,  1906.  How  "Harra  Chake"  Cut  the  Gordian 
Knot.  A  Story  of  Life  in  a  Pennsylvania-German  Community. 
W.  H.  Richardson.  —  An  Oft  Told  Tale  of  the  Revolution. 
L.  S.  Shimmell.  —  Barbara  Fritchie  at  Home.  J.  H.  Apple.  — 
Kinderlieder  aus  dem  Elsasstal.  John  Baer  Stoudt.  —  Penn- 
sylvania-German Genealogies.  By  many  authors.  —  The  York 
Riflemen.     L  H.  Betz. 

December,  1906.  George  SchaeflFer,  the  Pioneer.  D.  N. 
Schaeffer.  —  Early  History  of  the  Reformed  Church  in  Read- 
ing. Daniel  Miller.  —  An  Important  Historical  Error  Corrected. 
A.  Stapleton.  —  Christopher  Wieger,  the  Towamancian  Diarist. 
H.  W.  Kriebel.  —  The  Old-time  Pennsylvania-German  Christ- 
mas. H.  A.  Schuler.  —  Are  the  Pennsylvania  Germans  a  "Pe- 
culiar People"?     Geo.  W.  Sandt.  —  A  Pennsylvania  German 


3i6       Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6. 

Anthology.  R.  K.  Biiehrle.  —  Historic  Buildings  of  the  Lehigh 
Valley.  Chas.  E.  Roberts. 
The  Princeton  Theological  Review.  July  and  October,  1906. 
Schwenckf eld's  Participation  in  the  Eucharistic  Controversy  of 
the  Sixteenth  Century.  Fr.  W.  Lx)etscher. 
The  Reformed  Church  Review.  March  22,  1906.  Benjamin  Frank- 
lin and  the  Germans.    Wm.  J.  Hinke. 

October,  1906.  Christian  Unity  in  the  Reformed  Church :  An 
Historical  Review.    Conrad  Clever. 

October  18,  1906.  The  Union  of  the  Reformed  Church  in 
the  United  States  and  the  Presbyterian  Church,  U.  S.  A.  G.  W. 
Richards. 

October  25,  1906.     Some  Thoughts  on  Education  in  the  Re- 
formed Church.    W.  Rush  Gillan. 
The  Reformed  Witness.     Vol.  H,  No.  3.     The  College  of  German 

Tradition  and  Modern  German  Culture.     M.  D.  Learned. 
The  Sewanee  Review.     October,  1906.     Some  Odes  and  Didactic 

Verses  of  Goethe  in  English.     Wm.  H.  Guthrie. 
The  South  Atlantic  Quarterly.     Vol.  V.     No.  2.     Some  German 

Criticisms  of  America.    Wm.  H.  Wannamaker. 
The  Virginia  Magazine  of  History  and  Biography.    October,  1906. 

The  Germans  in  Madison  County,  Virginia.     Wm.  J.  Hinke. 
Ungdomsvdnnen.  January,  1906.    (Articles  began  in  1904,  continued 
to  close  of  1906.)     Svensk-Amerikanska  Forfattare. 

January,  1906.  Amerikanska  Folklifsbilder  fran  gatan.  (Con- 
tinued throughout  the  year.)  —  Gustaf  IV  Adolf  i  Heidel- 
berg.   Amandus  Johnson. 

February,  1906.  En  nyuppstackt  svensk  forfattare  och  ett 
enastaende  verk, 

April,  1906.  Svensk-Amerikanska  Konstnarer.  (Through- 
out the  year.) 

May,  1906.    Karl  Joseph  Alfred  Hedenstjarna. 
August,  1906.     Svensk-Amerikanernas  Dag  i  Norrkoping. 
Valkyrian  (New  York).    March  to  July,  1906.    John  Adolph  Dahl- 
gren.     J.  Emil  Blomen. 

May,  1906.  Augustana-synodens  kultur-  och  valgorenhets 
arbeta.    Wilh.  Berger.  —  Svenska  nationalkoren. 


Bibliography  oj  German  Americana  for  the  Year  i go 6.       317 

August,  1906.     En  Svensk  Konstnar.     Edward  Sundell. 

August  and  September,  1906.  Ulric  Dahlgren.  J.  Emil 
Blomen. 

September,  1906.  Kolonien  "Nya  Sverige."  Ett  tvahundra- 
femtioarsminne.    G.  Rosenberg. 

September  to  December,  1906.  Ungdomskarlek.  Svensk- 
Amerikansk  Novell.     Felix  Vivo. 

November,  1906.    Emigrantens  farval.    Ludvig  Holmes. 

December,  1906.  Kogl.  Svenska  Vetenskapsakademiens  hog- 
tidsdag  1893  och  havd  med  anledning  deraf  passerade.  CI. 
Adelskold.  —  En  julafton  pa  Bremer  Street.  Signe  Ankarfelt. 
—  En  svensk-amerikan.  Ludvig  Holmes.  —  En  akta  svensk- 
amerikanska.  Ernst  Skarstedt. 
Westermann's  Monatshefte.    July,  1906.    Vom  Deutschtum  im  Aus- 

lande.     Wilhelm  Dibelius. 
Zeitschrift  des  Allgemeincn  Dentschen  Sprachvereins.     Vol.  XXI. 
No.  4.     Sinfonia  domestica.     Eine  deutsch-amerikanische  Be- 
merkung  zur  Musiksprache.     Robert  Kohler. 

No.  II.  Ueber  den  Bestand,  die  Pflege  und  die  Aussicht 
der  deutschen  Sprache  in  Amerika.  —  Deutscher  Unterricht  in 
Amerika. 


REVIEWS. 

Beilage  der  Allgemeinen   Zeitung    (Miinchen).     August  8,    1906. 
Paul  Cohn's  Das  Bildungswesen  in  den  Vereinigten  Staaten  von 
Amerika.     By  Alfred  Holder. 
Deutsch-Anierikanische   Geschichtsbldtter.     January,    1906.      F.   P. 
Kenkel's :  Die  Amerika. 

January,  1906.    F.  P.  Kenkel's :  Die  Amerika. 
October,  1906.    Richard  Bockh's :  Die  Ermittlung  des  Volks- 
thums  der  Einwanderer  in  die  Vereinigten  Staaten.  —  Mitthei- 
lungen  des  Deutschen  Pionier-Vereins  von  Philadelphia. 
Deutsche  Historische  Gesellschaft  fur  den  District  Columbia.    Jan- 
uary, 1906.     Zur  Geschichte  der  St.  Johannes-Kirche. 

April,  1906.     Aufgabe  und  Ziel  der  Deutschen  Historischen 
Gesellschaft  fiir  den  District  Columbia.    Gustav  Bender. 


3i8       Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  igo6. 

April  and  July,  1906.     Geschichte  des  „Washington  Sanger- 
bund."     Chr.  Starck. 

July,  1906.     John  Lederer,  der  Entdecker  der  Virginia  Val- 
ley.    Chr.  Starck. 
Deutsche  Monatsschrift.     February,  1906.     Ralph  Waldo  Trine  — 

Amerikanischer  Idealismus.     Max  Christlieb. 
Die  Abendschule  (St.  Louis).     Vol.  LII.     No.  5.     Deutschland  ein 
schlechter  Kolonisator. 

No.  7.    Bartholdts  Friedensbemiihungen. 

No.  8.     Kaiser  Wilhelm  und  die 'Portsmouth  Konferenz. 

Nos.  10  and  20.     Haager  Friedenskonferenz. 

No.  II.     Deutschamerikanische  Stadte  beriihrnt. 

No.  13.    Deutschtum  wachst  hier. 

No.  14.    Eingewanderte  wandern  zuriick. 

Nos.  15  and  21.    Deutsch  in  Amerika. 

No.  17.    Burenkolonie  in  Mexiko  geht  ein. 

No.  17.    Deutschland  Amerikas  Freund. 

No.  21.    Roosevelt  iiber  Deutschland. 

No.  22.    Karl  Schurz  gestorben. 

No.  24.  Schurz'  meisterhaftes  Englisch. 
Deutsche  Erde.  No.  i  of  1906.  Julia  W.  Colton's  Deutsche  und 
Hollander  unter  den  ersten  Ansiedlern  New  Amsterdams.  By 
Rudolf  Blume.  —  Gord  and  Hinke's  Minutes  and  Letters  of 
the  Coetus  of  the  German  Reformed  Congregations  of  Penn- 
sylvania, 1 734- 1 792.  —  G.  A.  Neeff's  Vom  Lande  des  Sternen- 
banners.  —  Oscar  H.  Kraft's  Jahrbuch  fiir  die  deutschen  Ver- 
eine  von  Chicago.  —  W.  H.  Richardson's  The  Picturesque 
Quality  of  the  Pennsylvania  Germans.  —  Vom  Douro  und  Rio 
Grande. 

No.  10.  1905.  Review  of  an  article  in  "Das  Deutschtum  im 
Auslande."  Winke  fiir  die  Erhaltung  und  Pflege  des  deut- 
schen Schulwesens  in  Siidbrasilien.     By  Dr.  Aldinger. 

No.  2.  1906.  Review  of  an  article  found  in  "Die  deutschen 
Schulen  im  Auslande."  Die  Germaniaschule  zu  Buenos  Aires. 
By  C.  Sennewald.  —  Karl  Lares'  Das  Deutschtum  in  den  Ver- 
einigten  Staaten.  By  Rudolf  Blume.  —  Clement  L.  Martzolff's 
Deutsche  in  Perry  Co.,  Ohio.     By  Albert  Beyer.  —  Ernst  von 


Bibliography  of  Germayi  Americana  for  the  Yea7  igo6.       319 

Halle's  Mexico  und  Deutschland.  By  Alford  Zimmermann,  — 
Egas  Moniz  Barreto  de  Aragao's  Ein  Vorkampfer  deutscher 
Bildung  (in  Brasilien).  By  Victor  Hantzsch.  —  Review  of 
article  found  in  "Erstes  Jahrbuch  fiir  die  deutsch-sprechende 
Kolonie  im  Staate  S.  P.  Das  Deutschtum  in  Sao  Paulo.  By 
Wilhelm  Sievers.  —  Robert  Gernhard's  Deutschsprachliche 
Bauernsiedlungen  in  Brasilien.  By  Karl  Bollen.  —  Klasing  und 
Kull's  Der  deutsche  Riograndenser  Bauernverein.  By  Karl 
Bollen.  —  Ulrich  Schmidel's  Der  Erste  Deutsche  in  den  La 
Plata-Landern.  Viktor  Hantzsch.  By  R.  v.  Fischer-Treuen- 
feld.  —  Die  (deutsche)  Kolonie  Hohenau  in  Paraguay.  Wil- 
helm Gotz. 

No.  3.  1906.  G.  F.  V.  B[arsewich]  :  Die  wirtschaftliche 
Lage  der  Deutschen  in  Rio  Grande  de  Sul.    By  Karl  Bollen. 

No.  4.  1906.  Felix  Linke's  Die  iiberseeische  Auswanderung 
und  das  Deutschtum  im  Ausland.  By  Alfred  Zimmermann.  — 
Eberhard  Meinhold's  Die  deutsche  Kolonie  Sao  Lourenco.  By 
Karl  Bollen.  —  Alfred  Funcke's  Der  Kolonisator.  Eine  Griin- 
dungsgeschichte  (Siidamerika).  By  Karl  Bollen.  —  Brief  re- 
view of  article  in  No.  6  of  "Die  deutsche  Schule  im  Auslande." 
Was  wir  wollten  und  was  wir  erreichten.  (Siid-Amerika.) 
—  Gustav  Lenze's  Die  Schule  der  deutschen  Kolonie  in  Mexico. 

Deutsche  Monatsschrift.  Vol.  VI.  No.  i.  Ein  deutsches  Lieder- 
buch  fiir  amerikanische  Studenten. 

Educational  Review.  Vol.  XXX.  No.  3.  Thilly  &  Elwang's  trans- 
lation of  Paulsen's  The  German  Universities  and  University 
Study. 

German  American  Annals.  Vol.  IV.  No.  3.  Otto  Heller's  Studies 
in  Modern  German  Literature.  —  E.  Z.  Davis'  Translations  of 
German  Poetry  in  American  Magazines.  1741-1810.  —  Falk- 
ner's  Curieuse  Nachricht  von  Pennsylvania. 

Journal  of  the  Presbyterian  Historical  Sotiety.  Vol.  III.  No.  12. 
Daniel  Miller's  History  of  the  Reformed  Church  in  Reading, 
Pa. 

Modern  Language  Notes.  Vol.  XXI.  No.  4.  August  Hofer's 
Padagogische  Streifziige  durch  die  Vereinigten  Staaten  von 
Amerika.    By  George  Henry  Dalton. 


Bibliography  of  German  Americana  for  the  Year  ipo6.       320 

No.  6.  E.  Z.  Davis'  Translations  of  German  Poetry  in 
American  Magazines.     1741  to  1810.     By  H.  M.  Belden. 

The  South  Atlantic  Quarterly.  Vol.  V.  No.  4.  Thilly  and  El- 
wang's  translation  of  Paulsen's  The  German  Universities  and 
University  Study. 

Zeitschrift  fiir  Philosophie  und  Pddagogik.  Vol.  XIII.  No.  10. 
Pallet's  Schule  und  Kunst  in  Amerika. 

Zeitschrift  des  Allgemeinen  Deiitschen  Sprachvereins.  Vol.  XXI. 
No.  II.     Fernande  Richter's  Die  deutsche  Frau  in  Amerika. 

No.  3.  O.  Sperber's  Das  Verschwinden  der  deutschen 
Sprache  in  Nord-Amerika. 

No.  4.  A.  Pilger's  Wie  man  in  Amerika  Deutsch 
spricht.  —  Announcements  of  maps  published  by  Justus  Per- 
thes, Gotha.  Karte  der  Verbreitung  des  Deutschtums  in  den 
ostlichen  Ver.  Staaten.  —  Karte  der  Verbreitung  des  Deutsch- 
tums in  Slid-  und  Mittelamerika.  —  Karte  des  Anteils  der 
Deutschen  an  der  Erforschung  Siidamerikas.  —  Karte  der  siid- 
lichen  deutschen  Kolonien  in  Rio  Grande  do  Sul.  —  Karte  der 
deutschen  Kolonie  S.  Lourenco.  —  Karte  der  deutschen  Ko- 
lonie  am  mittleren  Taquary.  —  Karte  der  Verbreitung  des 
Deutschtums  in  Nordamerika.  (Pennsylvania,  New  York,  St. 
Louis,  Chicago.) 


©crman  Ctmcrican  Clnitals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 


A   BI-MONTHLY   DEVOTED  TO   THE  COMPARATIVE  STUDY  OF  THE 

Historical,  Literary,  Linguistic,  Educational  and  Commercial  Relations 

OF 

Germany  and  America 


ORGAN   OF 

The  German  American  Historical  Society 
The  National  German  American  Alliance 
The  Union  of  Old  German  Students  in  America 


EDITOR, 
MARION  DEXTER  LEARNED, 

University  of  Pennsylvania. 
CONTRIBUTING  EDITORS  : 
H.  C.  G.  Brandt,  Julius  Goebel, 

Hamilton  College.  Harvard  University. 

W.  H.  Carpenter,  J.  T.  Hatfield, 

Columbia  University.  Northwestern  University. 

W.  H.  Carruth,  W.  T.  Hewett, 

University  of  Kansas.  Cornell  University. 

Hermann  Collitz,  A.  R.  Hohlfeld, 

Bryn  Mawr  College.  University  of  Wisconsin. 

Starr  W.  Cutting,  Hugo  K.  Schilling, 

University  of  Chicago.  University  of  California. 

Daniel  K.  Dodge,  H.  Schmidt-Wartenberg, 

University  of  Illinois.  University  of  Chicago. 

A.  B.  Faust,  Hermann  Schoenfeld, 

Cornell  University.  Columbian  University. 

KuNO  Franckh,  Calvin  Thomas, 

'  Harvard  University.  Columbia  University. 

Adolph  Gerber,  H.  S.  White, 

Late    of   Earlham  College.  Harvard  University. 

Henry  Wood,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 


New  Series,  Vol.-'S.  Old  Series,  Vol.  9. 

51907. 

published  by 

THE  GERMAN  AMERICAN  HISTORICAL  SOCIETY 
Chas.  H.  Breitbarth,  Business  Manager, 

Pbiladelpbia. 
*«W« :  mew  13orft :  Xcipjifl : 

MAYER  &  MULLER  CARL  A.  STERN  p.  A.  BROCKHAUS 

lon&on:  parig: 

KEGAN.  PAUL  TRENCH,  TRCBNER  &  CO..  Ltd.  H.  LeSOUDIER 


(5erman  Qmcrican  Qnnals 

CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUARTERLY 

AMERICANA  GERMANICA 

New  Series,  November  and  December  Old  Series,. 

Vol.  V.     No.   6.  1907.  Vol.   IX.     No.   6. 


FRANCIS  DANIEL  PASTORIUS. 
The  Founder  of  Germantown. 

By  Marion  Dexter  Learned. 

[Copyrighted] 

CHAPTER  IV. 

Agent  of  the  German  Company. 

The  Voyage. 

The  one  absorbing  desire  of  Pastorius  in  leaving  his  native 
land  was  that  he  might  escape  the  vanities  of  the  old  world,  and 
lead  a  quiet  Christian  life  in  the  wilds  of  America.  His  disgust 
for  the  old  life,  which  he  was  leaving  behind  in  Europe,  is  strongly 
expressed  in  the  farewell  letter  written  to  his  father  and  friends 
from  Deal,  as  he  was  embarking  for  the  new  world.  The  letter 
is  dated  June  7th,  1683,  and  runs,  in  English  translation,  as  fol- 
lows: 

"After  I  had  seen  enough  of  the  countries  and  provinces  of 
Europe,  and  considered  the  impending  motiis  belli,  and  the  disquiet- 
ing changes  and  disruptions  of  my  native  land,  I  yielded  to  the 
special  guidance  of  the  Supreme  Being  to  journey  to  Pennsylvania, 
cherishing  the  hope  that  this  my  purpose  might  turn  out  to  the  best 
interests  of  my  dear  kinsmen,  and  to  the  advancement  of  God's 
honor  (which  is  my  highest  aim),  especially  as  the  libertinism 
and  sins  of  the  European  world  are  increasing  more  and  more  from 

(323) 


324  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

day  to  day  in  such  a  manner  that  the  righteous  judgments  of  God 
cannot  long  be  delayed.  ^ 

In  all  my  doings  I  had  taken  this  vanity  and  presumption  to 
heart  and  considered  their  final  issue  with  deep  reflection,  how  life 
and  limb,  property  and  goods,  ambition  and  lust,  are  subject  to 
death  and  decay.  But  the  soul  once  lost  is  lost  forever.  Semel  peri- 
isse  aeternum  est. 

Accordingly  I  have  entered  upon  this  journey  and  passage 
across  the  great  ocean  under  God's  guidence  the  more  cheerfully,  in 
order  to  escape  temporal  and  eternal  ruin,  and  together  with  nine 
persons  attached  to  me,  in  company  with  a  number  of  respected 
families,  sailed  from  Deal,  the  yih-  of  June,  1683,  in  the  hope  that 
the  Lord,  who  till  this  hour  has  so  richly  blessed  me  and  commanded 
his  angels  to  keep  watch  over  me,  will  so  rule  my  outgoing  and 
incoming  that  thereby  His  most  Holy  Name  may  be  praised  in  un- 
known places  beyond  the  sea. 

I  commit  then  my  father  and  all  the  dear  ones  at  home  to  the 
protecting  hand  of  the  Almighty,  and  as  soon  as  the  Lord  shall 
bring  me  to  Pennsylvania  I  shall  give  a  more  detailed  account  of 
all.  But  should  it  be  his  Holy  Will  to  summon  me  on  the  way,  I  am 
ready  with  all  my  heart,  and  so  on  this  account  take  leave  of  my 
father  as  befits  a  son,  obediently  thanking  him  again  for  all  the 
love  and  fidelity  which  have  been  manifested  in  such  superabund- 
ance.    May  God  repay  it  in  time  and  eternity. 

I  recall  having  read  in  my  tour  the  following  epitaph : 

"Der  ich  bey  frembder  Grufift  so  manche  SchriflFt  gelesen, 
Und  deren  gute  Zahl  in  dieses  Buch  gebracht, 

Weiss  nicht  wo  ?  wan  ?  und  wie  ?  ich  selbsten  werd  verwesen. 
Drum  gib  ich  Welt-Lust  dir  nun  tausend  gute  Nacht."^ 


^  The  impression  of  impending  European  disaster,  so  deeply  engraved  on 
Pastorius'  mind,  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  evidence  that  he  entertained  Chili- 
astic  views  of  the  approaching  end  of  the  world,  but  rather  as  a  prophetic 
presentiment  of  the  catastrophe  which  culminated  in  the  French  Revolution. 

A  similar  reflection  is  expressed  in  a  letter  written  home  March  7th, 
1684  (cf.  Zurich  A.). 

'  This  would  seem  to  show  that  the  letter  was  written  immediately  after 
Pastorius'  arrival  in  Deal,  when  he  expected  the  ship  to  sail  at  once.  As  we 
learn  from  the  Genealogical  Sketch  {Beehive,  223),  and  other  sources  he  did 
not  sail  for  America  until  June  loth,  1683. 

*  I  who  on  foreign  graves  have  oft  inscriptions  read, 
And  many  too  of  these  into  this  book  did  write, 
Know  not  where,  when,  nor  how  I  shall  myself  lie  dead; 
To  thee  then,  worldly  joy,  a  thousand  times  good  night. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  325 

Should  we  not  see  one  another  again  here  below,  we  shall  in 
Heaven.   If  otherwise,  we  shall  fulfil  the  will  of  God  here  on  earth, 
which  I  desire  from  the  depths  of  my  soul,  and  remain  till  death, 
My  father's  faithful  and  obedient 

F.  D.  P."4 

Pastorius  sailed  from  Deal  on  the  loth  of  June,  1683,  ^"<^ 
arrived  in  Philadelphia  August  20th,  1683,  six  wrecks  earlier  than 
the  main  body  of  the  first  German  colonists,  the  Crefelders  and 
others,  who  arrived  on  the  6th  of  October,  1683.  He  had  with 
him  nine  persons:  four  males,  two  maids,  two  children  and  a 
lad.^  One  of  the  maids  was  a  Hollander  whom  he  had  em- 
ployed in  Deal  after  his  arrival  from  London.  He  came  over  on 
the  ship  America,  which  was  commanded  by  Captain  Vasey,  and 
drew  thirteen  feet  of  water.  There  were  some  eighty  other  pas- 
sengers in  the  company.  The  journey  was  attended  with  much 
stormy  weather  and  marred  by  the  customary  bad  fare.  A  number 
of  mishaps  occurred  during  the  voyage.  The  foremast  of  the 
ship  as  broken  by  the  violence  of  the  storm,  the  two  carved  lions 
of  the  ship's  belF  fell  upon  Pastorius,  nearly  breaking  his  back. 
On  another  occasion  he  fell  during  a  severe  storm  and  was  con- 
fined to  his  bed  for  some  days  in  consequence.  He  remarks  in  his 
waggish  humor  that  these  two  falls  reminded  him  emphatically  of 
the  first  fall  of  our  first  parents,  which  was  visited  upon  their 
posterity.     Accidents  befell  some  of  those  also,  who  were  with 


*  Cf.  Umstdndige  geographische  Beschreibung  Der  su  allerletzt  erfundenen 
Provintz  Pensylvaniac,  etc.  1700,  pp  45-47:  Copia  Genommenen  Abschieds 
Francisci  Danielis  Pastorii  von  seinem  Vatter  und  Befreundten.  Aus  Deal 
den  7.  Junii  1683. 

*They  were  Jacob  Schumacher,  Georg  Wertmuller,  Isaac  Dilbeck  with 
his  wife  (Marietta)  and  two  boys  (Abraham  and  Jacob),  Thomas  Gasper, 
Conrad  Bacher  (alias  Rutter)  and  Frances  Simson,  an  English  maid.  (Cf. 
Seidensticker,  Bilder  aus  der  Deutsch-Pennsylvanischen  Geschichte,  p.  38.) 

•  The  original  passage  is :  "Zwey  ausgehauene  Loben  der  Schiffglocke," 
which  evidently  refers  to  the  ornamental  frame  work  of  the  ship's  bell. 


326  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

him.  Georg  Wertmiiller  had  a  serious  fall,  Thomas  Gasper  had 
a  severe  eruption  on  his  body,  and  the  English  maid  had  an  at- 
tack of  erysipelas.  Pastorius  states  that  he  had  a  small  ship's 
hospital  on  board,  although  he  alone  of  all  the  Germans  had  his 
quarters  among  the  English  passengers. "^  One  of  the  sailors 
went  crazy,  and  the  ship  was  shaken  by  repeated  attacks  of  a 
whale. 

The  hardships  of  the  voyage  were  increased  by  the  poor 
and  scanty  fare  which  forced  them  to  live  "medice  ac 
modice."  The  allowance  for  ten  persons  was  three  pounds  of 
butter  a  week,  four  measures  of  beer  a  day,  two  measures  of  water 
a  day,  two  dishes  of  peas  at  midday,  meat  at  midday  four  times 
a  week,  and  fish  for  the  midday  meal  three  times  a  week.  This 
they  had  to  prepare  with  their  own  allowance  of  butter  and  save 
enough  from  the  midday  meal  for  supper.  The  worst  of  all  was 
that  the  meat  and  fish  were  so  salt  and  stale  that  they  could 
scarcely  eat  it.  Pastorius  himself  had  taken  the  precaution,  upon 
the  advice  of  a  friend  in  England,  to  lay  in  some  supplies  before 
sailing,  and  in  his  account  advises  others  either  to  procure  their 
own  provisions  or  to  have  a  binding  contract  both  as  to  quantity 
and  quality  of  the  food  to  be  served  on  the  voyage.  He  advises 
further  that  voyagers  should,  if  possible,  take  passage  on  ships 
sailing  directly  to  Philadelphia,  as  those  landing  in  Upland  are 
subjected  to  many  annoyances.® 

It  was  a  very  mixed  company  of  passengers  who  came  over 


^  Pastorius  took  quarters  among  the  English  passengers  evidently  in  the 
hope  of  better  service  and  associations,  as  he  was  travelling  as  a  gentleman, 
or,  at  least,  as  a  man  of  some  consequence  in  his  capacity  as  agent  of  the 
German  Society. 

*  Amandus  Johnson,  Harrison  Fellow  in  Germanics  at  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania,  has  suggested  that  Pastorius  may  still  have  remembered  the 
Swedes  unfavorably,  because  his  grandfather  Martinus  Pastorius  had  met 
death  at  the  hands  of  the  Swedes  during  the  occupation  of  Erfurt  in  the 
Thirty  Years'  War. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  327 

on  the  America  with  Pastorius:  A  Doctor  of  Medicine^  with 
his  wife  and  eight  children,  a  French  captain,  a  Low  German 
pastry  cook,  an  apothecary,  a  glassblower,  a  blacksmith,  a  cabinet- 
maker, a  cooper,  a  hatter,  a  shoemaker,  a  tailor,  a  gardener,  yeo- 
men, seamstresses,  etc..  some  eighty  persons  in  all  besides  the 
crew.  The  oldest  woman  was  sixty  years  of  age,  and  the  young- 
est child  twelve  weeks  old.  Pastorius  states  that  there  were  with 
him  Roman  Catholics,  Lutherans,  Calvinists,  Anabaptists,  Epis- 
copalians, and  only  one  Quaker.  He  not  unfittingly  remarks  that 
the  ship  might  be  likened  to  Noah's  Ark. 

On  the  nth  of  August  they  cast  anchor  for  the  first  time, 
and,  finding  that  they  were  near  the  Great  Sand  Bank,  they  sailed 
a  hundred  miles  out  of  their  course  to  safe  waters.  On  the  i6th, 
to  their  great  delight,  they  sighted  America,  reached  the  Delaware 
Bay  on  the  i8th,  passed  New  Castle,  Upland  and  Tinicum  Island 
on  the  20th,  arriving  on  the  evening  of  the  same  day  at  Phila- 
delphia, after  a  voyage  of  ten  weeks. 

The  German  Company  or  German  Society. 
The  group  of  German  purchasers  of  land  in  Pennsylvania, 
for  whom  Pastorius  was  agent,  was  in  the  beginning  rather  an 
aggregation  of  individuals  than  an  organized  land  company. 
It  must  be  noted  that  Pastorius,  in  his  earlier  reports,  speaks  of 
his  constituents  as  the  German  Company,  or  High  German  Com- 
pany or  Society  ("Hoch-teutsche  Compagnia,"  "Hoch-Teutsche 
Societat,"  "Teutsche  Compagnia,"  "Teutsche  Societat,"  "Teui- 
sche  Compagnia  oder  Societat") .  The  German  Company  or  Soci- 
ety seems  to  have  consisted  of  a  group  of  sympathetic  friends  or 
acquaintances  in  Frank furt-on-the-Main,   Duisburg,  Wesel  and 

"  Thomas  Lloyd,  afterwards  President  of  the  Provincial  Council  of 
Pennsylvania.  It  appears  that  Lloyd  and  his  first  wife  (Mary  Jones,  of 
Welchpool)  had  at  the  time  of  sailing  for  America  nine  children  instead  of 
eight,  as  stated  by  Pastorius.  This  may  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  the 
youngest  child,  Deborah,  was  an  infant.  (Cf.  Charles  P.  Keith,  The  Pro- 
vincial Councillors  of  Pennsylvania,  pp.  16-17.) 


328  Francis  Daniel  Pastor ius 

Other  places,  who  had  come  into  contact  with  Wilham  Penn  and 
the  Quakers  in  the  preceding  years,  and  had  purchased  lands 
in  Pennsylvania  with  the  purpose  of  settling  there,  or  at  least 
of  sending  representatives  to  take  up  lands  for  them.  Pastorius 
mentions  the  following  as  the  most  interested  participants  in  this 
company  in  its  beginning:  Jacob  von  de  Walle,^^  Dr.  Johann 
Jacob  Schiitz,  Daniel  Behagel,  merchant,  all  three  at  Frankfort- 
on-the-Main ;  Dr.  Gerhard  von  Mastricht  at  Duisburg,  Dr. 
Thomas  von  Wolich^'  and  Johann  Lebrunn  at  Wesel,  Benjamin 
Furly  at  Rotterdam.  Philipp  Fort  at  London.  These  men  also 
forwarded  letters  and  wares  for  emigrants  and  furnished  desired 
information  and  advice  to  those  wishing  to  emigrate  to  Pennsyl- 
vania. ^~ 

The  actual  purchasers  in  the  German  Company  or  Society 
who  first  transferred  the  official  management  of  their  interests  to 
Pastorius  April  2d,  1683,  may  be  seen  in  the  following  power  of 
attorney  in  English  translation  in  Pastorius'  own  hand : 

"At  all  times  &  in  all  things  the  Lord  be  praised !  Whereas 
Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  U.  J.  Licentus  a  German  of  Winsheim 
in  Franckenland  did  signify  his  Jnclination  to  travel  towards  Penn- 
silvania,  viz.  that  Province  in  America,  which  heretofore  was  called 
New  Netherland,  Jacob  van  de  Wallen  of  Francfort  Mercht.  for 
himself  &  as  Attorney  of  John  William  Petersen  of  Lubeck,  and  of 
his  wife  Johanna  Eleonora  van  Morlaw,  as  also  John  Jacob  Schutz 
of  Francfort  U.  J.  Licentus  and  Daniel  Behagel  &  Caspar  Merian  of 
Francfort  Merchants  have  trusted  &  comitted  unto  him  the  Care  & 
Administration  of  all  their  Estate,  lands  &  Rights  which  they  law- 
fully obtained  there  of  William  Penn  Governr  in  that  part.  So  that 
the  said  Pastorius  in  the  Name  of  the  Constituents  shall  reecive  & 


"  Pastorius  gives  the  High  German  from  "von"  here  instead  of  the  usual 
and  correct  form  "van,"  the  name  being  Jacob  van  de  Walle.  The  form 
"Wallen"  instead  of  "Walle,"  which  is  sometimes  found  in  German  and 
transferred  into  English,  is  really  the  oblique  case  of  "Walle,"  as  proi)er 
names  were  then  inflected. 

"Also  written  "Wylich"  (or  "Willich")  and  "Le  Brunn." 
"  Cf.  Umstdndige  geographische  Beschreibung,  p.  35.     For  an  account  of 
the  several  individuals  of  the  Company  cf.  S.  W.  Pennypacker's  Germantown. 


H 

X 
PI 

_    r 
o   w 


vO 


Oj 


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B 1 

^^^b^^^Tj  hHIIKk 

^mB^^^^^^^^^^m 

^K^' JHo^ 

I^^^^^^^^^^H 

^P',ap 

^gjJM| 

SHfPB^^w 

^^K  A~i  '■'  m^^^^Km 

J^^^^fiST  >     '^ 

^^^^firalH 

M^^ 

H^l^ 

tK^^J^^ 

^H^^^ 

K^^^/'JiuiH 

K^ 

^M^ 

K  - 

EI^I^H 

^^^He*'< 

PppMB 

^^^  V  -^.  'p^'f 

■M 

Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  329 

Conserve  in  the  best  form  of  Law  the  things  themselves,  the  Pos- 
session thereof  and  other  Rights :  Order  the  Tillage  of  the  ground 
&  what  belongs  to  husbandry  there  according  to  the  best  diligence, 
hire  Labourers,  grant  part  of  the  land  to  others,  take  the  yearly 
Revenues  or  Rents ;  and  shall  &  may  do  all  what  the  Owners  may 
do  in  Administration :  nevertheless  all  sorts  of  Alienation  &  Mort- 
gaging excepted.  To  this  end  a  certain  sum  of  money  has  been 
delivered  to  his  trusty  hands:  Of  all  which  he  shall  &  will  yearly 
give  an  account  to  the  Constituents  or  their  heirs ;  but  the  Constit- 
uents will  not  be  obliged  to  any  man  by  all  his  doings  &  Contracts : 
What  will  be  reasonable  will  be  assigned  unto  him  out  of  the  ex- 
pected Jncomes  or  Rents  in  Pensilvania.  This  being  thus  done  hath 
been  subscribed  by  the  Parties  own  hands,  Confirmed  by  publick 
authority  and  committed  to  divine  blessing,  Jn  Francfort  on  Mayn 
a  free  City  of  the  German  Empire  in  the  year  of  Christ  according 
to  vulgar  account  1683,  the  2d  day  of  the  2d  month  comonly  called 
April. 

(Seal)  Jacobus  vande  Walle  for  (Seal)   John  Jacob  Schutz 

myself  &  as  Attorney  of  (Seal)   Caspar   Merian. 

John  Wm.  Petersen  and 
his  wife  Johanna  Eleo- 
nora  van  Merlaw. 

(Seal)   Daniel  Behagel. 

(Seal)   Francis  Daniel  Pastorius. 

(Seal)  That  the  aforesd  Parties  did  agree  to  all  the  above  Contents, 
and  Jn  my  presence  Sign,  Seal  and  Acknowledge  the  same, 
J  do  hereby  witness  the  Date  as  above  mentioned 

Christian  Fenda  Jmperial  Approved  &  Jmatriculated 
Publick  Notary  here. 

Manu  &  Sigillo." 

Endorsed  on  the  back  in  Pastorius'  hand  as  follows :  "A  Trans- 
lation bf  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  his  Letter  of  Attorney." 


The  Crcfeld  Purchasers.  • 

Another  company  of  German  purchasers  (not  members  of 
this  German  Company  or  Society,  the  so-called  Frankfurters,  in 
its  first  inception,  as  it  seems)  had  already  purchased  landinPenn- 


33<^  Francis  Daniel  Pastorizis 

sylvania  and  were  plannino-  to  make  a  settlement  there.  They 
were  the  so-called  Crefeld  Purchasers,  some  of  whom  had  bought 
land  in  Penn's  Province  as  early  as  March,  1682.  The  active 
spirit  among  these  Cref elders  was  Jacob  Telner,  who  had  visited 
Pennsylvania  in  the  years  1 678-1 681,  and  after  his  return  to 
Europe  had  induced  or  agreed  with  his  friends  to  buy  extensive 
tracts  of  land  in  Penn's  Province.  Two  groups  of  these  Crefeld 
Purchasers  appear  in  the  Land  Records.  The  first  group  included 
Jacob  Telner^^  of  Crefeld,  dealing  as  merchant  in  Amsterdam; 
Jan  Strepers^^  of  Kaldenkirchen,  and  Dirck  Sipman^^  of  Crefeld, 


"  "This  Indenture  made  the  Second  day  of  the  fourth  month  called  June 
in  the  four  and  thirtieth  year  of  the  reign  of  King  Charles  the  Second  over 
England  &c.  Ano  Dni  one  thousand  six  hundred  eighty  &  three  Between 
William  Penn  of  Worminghurst  in  the  county  of  Sussex  Esq  of  the  first  part 
&  Jacob  Telner  of  Amsterdam  in  the  Province  of  Holland  Mrcht  of  the  other 
pt.  Whereas  the  said  William  Penn  by  his  Indentures  of  Lease  &  Release 
bearing  date  the  ninth  &  tenth  day  of  the  month  called  March  for  the  Consid- 
eration therein  mentioned  did  alien  grant  bargain  sell  release  &  confirm  unto 
the  said  lacob  Telner  his  Heirs  &  Assigns  forever  the  full  &  just  proportion 
&  quantity  of  five  thousand  acres  to  be  admeasured  &  computed  according  to 
the  dimensions  of  acres  mentioned  &  appointed  &c."  {Exemplification  Rec- 
ords, I,  441,  and  VIII,  655.) 

The  year  1683  should  be  1682,  as  the  first  year  of  the  reign  of  Charles  II. 
was  1649.  The  most  cogent  argument  against  1683  is  the  fact  that  William 
Penn  was  then  in  Pennsylvania.  (Cf.  S.  W.  Pennypacker,  The  Settlement  of 
Germantoivn,  pp.  54-55.)  Pastorius  gives  the  year  1682.  (Cf.  Grund-  und 
Lager-Buch.) 

"The  name  is  written  also  "Streepers"  and  "Streypers."  The  following 
passage  from  the  indenture  deed  gives  the  essential  data : 

"Whereas  by  my  Indentures  of  Lease  &  Release  bearing  date  the  ninth 
and  tenth  days  of  the  month  called  March  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one  thou- 
sand six  hundred  eighty  two  for  the  considerations  therein  mentioned  I 
granted  unto  John  Streipers  of  Kaldenkirchen  in  the  county  of  luliers  in  the 
borders  of  Germany  Merchant  five  thousand  acres  of  land  to  be  taken  up  in 
the  sd  Province  &c."     {Exemplification  Rec,  I,  p.  441.) 

"  Cf.  the  following  passage : 

"William  Penn  true  and  absolute  Proprietary  and  Governor  in  Chief  of 
the  province  of  Pennsylvania  and  teritories  thereunto  belonging  to  all  to  whom 
these  presents  shall  come  sendeth  Greeting.  Whereas  by  my  Indentures  of 
lease  and  release  dated  the  ninth  and  tenth   days  of  March  Anno   Sixteen 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  331 

each  of  whom  purchased  of  William  Penn,  on  March  9th  and 
loth,  1682,  5000  acres  of  land  in  Pennsylvania.  These  purchas- 
ers were  evidently  the  first  fruits  of  Telner's  prospecting  tour  in 
Pennsylvania,  and  the  contracts  were  executed  while  Penn  was 
still  in  England.  The  second  group  of  Crefeld  Purchasers  con- 
sisted of  Covert  Ranckes^e  ^f  Crefeld,  Jacob  Isaacs  van  Bebber,*^ 
and  Lenert  Arets^^  each  of  whom  purchased  1,000  acres  of  Penn- 
sylvania land  in  June  1682.  The  indenture  of  sale  to  Ranckes 
and  van  Bebber  is  dated  June  loth  and  nth,  1683,  and  that  to 
Arets  is  given  in  one  case  as  June  nth,  1683.  The  purchases  of 
the  first  group  of  Crefelders  were  made  before  Pastorius  had  re- 
turned to  Frankfurt  from  his  tour  with  Bodeck;  the  purchases  of 
the  second  group  were  made  on  the  day  and  day  after  Pastorius 
embarked  from  Gravesend  for  America,  but  before  the  Crefelders 
sailed  for  Pennsylvania. 


f^r/n^H  I  ^.v,  m  consideration  of  one  hundred  pounds  sterling  money 
I  granted  five  thousand  acres  of  land  to  Dirick  Sipman  of  Crevett  in  the 
county  of  Meurs  on  the  borders  of  Germany  &c."  {Exempl  Record    I    462) 

"The  name  is  written  by  Pastorius  in  the  Grund-  und  Lager-Buch  as 

Remckins,'  which  is  doubtless  the  correct  form,  although  the  form  "Remke" 

also  occurs,  and  the  Exempl.  Records  have  "Ranckes."    Cf   this-  "*     *    And 

whereas  by  my  like  Indentures  of  lease  and  release  bearing  date  the  tenth 

and  eleventh  days  of  June  ,n  the  year  one  thousand  six  hundred  and  eighty 

iT.'"K''°f  •^^'■^*'''"  °f  *'^^"*y  P°""^^  J  ^'■^"t^d  «"e  thousand  acres  of 
knd  o  be  laid  out  in  the  said  Province  to  Covert  Banckes  [Ranckes]  of 
Crevelt  aforesaid  &c."  (^Exempl.  Rec.  I,  p.  470.) 

"For  the  Van  Bebbers  cf.  S.  W.  Pennypacker  in  the  Pennsylvania  Maga- 
zine for  .    The  record  runs : 

A.,  "*.»,* fu^i^^r^u  ^^  ^'^^  Indentures  of  lease  and  release  bearing  even 
tf\r\  the  last  above  recited  indentures  of  lease  and  release  [9th  and  loth 
of  March  1682  Indentures  to  Dirick  Sipman]  in  consideration  of  twenty 
pounds  I  granted  one  thousand  acres  of  land  to  Jacob  Isaacs  Vanbebber  &c." 
(t.xempl.  Kec.  I,  p.  473.) 

fj,.  1^1  r*i  *  }J^he''^3s  by  my  Indentures  of  Lease  &  Release  bearing  date 
the  tenth  &  eleventh  days  of  June  in  the  year  one  thousand  si.x  hundred  eighty 
three  for  the  Considerations  therein  Mentioned  I  granted  to  Leonart  Arretts 
then  of  Crevelt  in  the  County  of  Meurs  in  the  borders  of  Germany  Linen 
Weaver  (but  now  of  Germantown  in  the  sd  Province)  the  quantity  of  one 
thousand  acres  of  land  to  be  laid  out  in  the  sd  Province"  &c.  (Exempl  Rec 
1,  p.  700.; 


3^2  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Taking  up  Land  and  Founding  the  German  Town 

The  beginnings  of  the  German  settlement  are  best  gathered 
from  the  Land  Records  and  the  Reports  which  Pastorius  sent 
to  his  friends  and  constituents  in  Germany.  A  number  of  these 
letters,  reports,  etc.,  are  still  extant,  entire  or  in  part,  many  of 
them  having  been  later  incorporated  or  abstracted  in  the  Um- 
stdndige  Beschrcibiing  of  1700.  These  sources  arranged  in  chron- 
ological order  are : 

I. — A  letter  from  Pastorius  to  his  father  and  stepmother, 
dated  March  7th,  1684,  now  found  in  the  City  Library  of  Zurich, 
Switzerland.  It  will  be  cited  in  the  following  pages  as  "Ziirich- 
A." 

2. — An  accurate  report  from  America,  dated  March  7th, 
1684,  sent  by  Pastorius  to  his  friends  in  Germany,  a  printed  copy 
of  which  is  found  in  the  City  Library  of  Ziirich.  It  will  be  quoted 
here  as  "Zurich  B."  This  report  was  incorporated  in  substance 
later  in  the  Beschreibttng,  p.  41  fif.  (See  photographic  reproduc- 
tion.) Cf.  J.  F.  Sasche,  Letters  relating  to  the  Settlement  of 
Germantown,  &c.,  pp.  T,-y. 

3. — Pastorius'  report  to  the  German  Society,  dated  the  end 
of  November,  1684.    This  is  found  in  the  Beschreihung,  p.  16  ff. 

4. — Pastorius'  report  of  January  7th,  1684,  found  in  the 
Beschreihung,  p.  39. 

5. — Pastorius'  letter  to  Dr.  Schiitz,  dated  May  30th,  1685 
{Beschreihung,  p.  47). 

6. — Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  October  loth,  1691 
{Beschreihung,  p.  49  ff). 

7. — Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  June  ist,  1693 
{Beschreihung,  p.  54  ff). 

8. — Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  March  30th,  1694 
{Beschreihung,  p.  64  ff) 

9. — Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  January  21st,  1694 
{Beschreihung,  p.  70  f). 

10. — Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  the  last  of  April, 
1695  {Beschreihung,  p.  68  f). 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  333 

II- — Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  March  ist,  1697, 
enclosing  also  a  letter  from  Pastorius'  two  sons,  John  Samuel  and 
Henry  (B'cschreibimg,  p.  /iff). 

12. — Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  May  13,  1697 
{Beschreibung,  p.  75  ff). 

13. — Contents  of  a  letter  of  Pastorius'  to  Rector  Georg 
Leonhard  Modelius  (Beschreibung,  p.  yyff). 

14.— Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  May  30th,  1698 
{Beschreibung,  p.  81  ff). 

15. — Letter  of  Melchior  Adam  Pastorius  to  William  Penn, 
January  20th,  1698  (Beschreibung,  p.  94). 

16.— Penn's  answer  to  M.  A.  Pastorius'  letter,  April  25th, 
1699  (Beschreibung,  p.  96). 

17.— Pastorius'  letter  to  his  father,  dated  March  4th,  1699, 
enclosing,  as  it  appears,  the  second  letter  of  Pastorius'  sons  to 
their  grandfather  (Beschreibung,  p.  98  ff). 

18. — Melchior  Adam  Pastorius'  answer  to  the  letter  of  his 
grandsons  (Beschreibung,  p.  103  ff). 

In  addition  to  these  we  have  other  invaluable  sources  of 
information  such  as  : 

I. — Old  Land  Record  of  Germantown  (Grund-  und  Lager- 
Buch). 

2. — Pastorius  Manuscripts  (a  collection  of  seventeen  sep- 
arate manuscripts  relating  to  the  lands  of  the  Frankfurt  Com- 
pany, found  in  the  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania). 

3.— Original  letter  of  attorney  to  Falkner,  Kelpius  and  Jaw- 
ert  (in  the  possession  of  former  Governor  S.  W.  Penny- 
packer). 

4. — Land  documents  in  the  office  of  Recorder  of  Deeds, 
Philadelphia,  and  in  the  Department  of  Internal  Affairs,  Harris- 
burg. 

5. — The  Court  Record  of  Germantown  (Raths-Buch)  in  the 
Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania. 

It  is  possible  from  this  score    of  letters  and  reports  to  con- 


334  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

struct  a  fairly  full  account  of  the  part  taken  by  Pastorius  in  the 
founding  and  early  growth  of  Germantown. 

As  has  already  been  seen  from  the  Genealogical  Sketch,  the 
German  Company  or  German  Society  had  purchased  15,000  acres 
of  land  in  Pennsylvania.  This  purchase  was  made  through  Ben- 
jamin Furly,  Penn's  plenipotentiary  agent  in  Rotterdam,  before 
Pastorius  sailed  for  America.  Furly  was  also  plenipotentiary 
agent  at  Rotterdam  for  the  German  Society,  as  appears  in  a  con- 
tract dated  June  8th,  1683,  after  Pastorius'  departure  from  Hol- 
land for  London.^'"*  These  contracts  ( "verfertigte  Documenta  u. 
Contracten")  which  Furly  had  made  out  in  Rotterdam,  Pastorius 
took  along  with  him  to  have  them  confirmed  in  England.  Inas- 
much, however,  as  Penn  had  already  sailed  for  America,  August 
3,  1682,  and  the  books  in  London  had  been  closed,  Pastorius  could 
not  finally  settle  the  details  of  the  agreement  until  he  met  Penn 
in  Philadelphia.^" 

Accordingly,  without  unnecessary  delay,  on  the  21st  of  Au- 
gust, 1683,  the  day  after  arriving  in  Philadelphia,  Pastorius  called 
on  Penn  and  was  heartily  received  both  by  the  Proprietary  and 
his  Secretary,  Johann  Lehenmann.-^  Pastorius  states  that  he 
entered  into  the  most  intimate  friendship  with  Lehenmann.  When 
the  location  of  the  land  purchased  by  the  members  of  the  Ger- 
many Society,  came  up  for  discussion.  Penn  was  disinclined  to 
confirm  the  original  agreement,  which  called  for  the  following: 


^  Cf.  the  following  passage  in  the  deed  of  John  Luken  and  his  wife  Mary 
to  Eve  Bellonge,  8th  3d  mo.  (May)  1697: 

"Fifty  acres  *  *  *  granted  by  Benjamin  Furly  Agent  &  Attorney  of  the 
Franckfort  Company  at  Rotterdam  to  John  Luken  *  *  *  which  sd  deed 
beareth  date  the  8th  day  of  the  month  called  June  Anno  1683." 

^  Furly  had  inquired  of  Claypoole  about  this  matter  and  received  the 
reply  that  the  location  of  the  land  lay  in  the  power  of  Penn  alone  (cf.  Clay- 
poole's  letter  of  January  24,  1682-3,  Claypoole's  Letter  Book  in  Hist.  Soc. 
of  Pa.) 

^*  The  name  is  written  in  the  Colonial  Records,  Philip  Theodore  Lenman 
and  Ph.  Thleman.  Pastorius  evidently  has  confused  the  name  of  Philip 
Theodor  Lehnmann  with  that  of  his  father,  Johann  Georg  Lehnmann,  farmer- 
general  of  Saxony. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  335 

I. — 15,000  acres  of  land  together  in  one  tract  on  a  navigable 
stream. 

2. — 300  acres  in  the  City  Liberties,^^  between  the  Delaware 
and  the  Schuylkill. 

3. — 3  lots  in  the  city  of  Philadelphia  for  the  erection  of 
houses. 

In  reply  to  Pastorius'  request  for  warrants,  surveys,  etc., 
Penn  answered  the  three  points  in  substance  as  follows : 

I. — That  the  lots  in  the  city  and  the  300  acres  in  the  Liber- 
ties could  not  be  justly  assigned  to  the  Society,  because  they  were 
not  purchased  till  after  he  had  left  England  and  the  books  in 
London  had  been  closed.  Pastorius,  however  standing  on  his 
rights,  urged  that  these  Germans  were  the  forerunners  of  all  Ger- 
man colonists,  and  therefore  due  more  consideration.  Penn 
finally  yielded,  and  issued  a  warrant  for  the  survey  of  three  lots 
from  the  share  of  William  Penn,  Jr.,  son  of  the  proprietor,  in 
the  beginning  of  the  city.  The  first  and  second  lots  assigned  were 
100  feet  wide  and  400  feet  deep.  The  third  lot  was  the  largest 
of  all.  There  was  room  on  each  lot  for  two  houses  in  front  and 
two  in  the  rear.  These  lots  may  be  seen  on  the  diagram  of  lots 
which  Pastorius  sent  with  his  report.  The  condition  of  tenure 
of  these  lots  was  that  at  least  one  house  be  built  on  each  lot  within 
two  years. 

On  the  first  lot  Pastorius  and  his  hired  man  built  a  house 
"half  under  and  half  above  ground,"  15  feet  wide  and  30  feet 
long.  As  glass  was  scarce,  the  windows  were  made  of  paper 
saturated  with  oil.  The  cellar  of  the  house  was  7  feet  deep,  12 
feet  wide  and  20  feet  long.  Over  the  door  of  the  house  Pastorius 
placed  the  following  inscription : 

"Parva  domus,  sed  amica  bonis,  procul  este  profphani."^^ 

Pastorius  boasted  that  this  house,  though  small,  had  fur- 


**  Called  also  "Liberty  Lands"  or  simply  "The  Liberties." 

^  It  may  be  freely  rendered  as  follows  : 

"Small  is  my  house,  but  friendly  to  good  men  and  closed  to  the  evil. 


336  Franns  Daniel  Pastorius 

nished  shelter  for  twenty  of  the  Crefelders  during  their  sojourn 
in  Philadelphia  while  houses  were  being  built  for  them  in  Ger- 
mantown. 

2. — Penn  objected  to  assigning  to  the  Germans  the  300  acres 
in  the  City  Liberties  because  land  there  was  only  offered  to  pur- 
chasers who  bought  tracts  of  5,000  acres  before  he  left  England, 
and  the  German  Society  was  not  among  these.  But  Pastorius 
was  again  persistent,  and  presented  a  second  "memorial"  to  Penn, 
urging  the  rights  of  the  Germans.  Whereupon  Penn,  because  of 
his  special  fondness  for  the  Germans,  consented  to  grant  them  the 
300  acres  in  one  tract,  but  declared  he  would  extend  this  favor  to 
no  one  else  who  bought  land  in  the  Liberties  after  the  closing  of 
the  books  in  London,  no  matter  who  he  might  be!  This  land 
Pastorius  began  to  till  by  planting  Indian  corn  upon  it, 

3. — The  assignment  of  the  15,000  (or  12,000)  acres  in  the 
large  tract  likewise  encountered  objections  on  the  part  of  Penn. 
Pastorius  mentions  two  chief  obstacles :  First,  that  Penn  did  not 
wish  to  assign  so  much  land  in  one  tract,  while  a  large  amount  of 
land  was  still  vacant ;  and,  second,  he  objected  to  assigning  the 
land  on  the  Delaware,  where  all  was  taken  up.  This  refusal  nulli- 
fied that  part  of  the  contract  of  the  German  Company's  purchase 
which  called  for  land  on  a  navigable  stream,  inasmuch  as  the 
desirable  tracts  of  this  size  on  the  Schuylkill  below  the  Falls,  the 
only  desirable  region  left,  seem  not  to  have  been  available,  at  least 
in  the  mind  of  the  Proprietary.  But  in  the  case  of  this  third 
tract,  as  in  the  two  previous  instances.  Pastorius  was  persistent 
in  urging  the  claims  of  the  Germans.  He  argued  that  it  would 
be  pred judicial  to  the  Germans  and  to  their  posterity  to  be  scat- 
tered among  the  English ;  that  Benjamin  Furly  had  shown  them 
William  Penn's  autograph  letter  in  Rotterdam,  in  which  the  orig- 
inal promise  was  made.  Penn  finally  yielded  a  third  time  to  the 
pleadings  of  Pastorius  and  issued  a  warrant  for  the  land,  making 
it  a  condition  of  tenure,  that  thirty  families  should  be  settled  upon 
it  within  one  year,  in  three  townships,  with  ten  families  each,  in- 
cluding the  three  families  already  there. 


The   Outskirts    of    Windsheim    in    1903. 
(Wheat  and  Poppy  Fields  in  the  Foreground. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  337 

These  concessions  seem  not  to  have  been  finally  made  by 
Penn  until  after  the  arrival  of  the  Cref elders  on  the  6th  (or  i6th, 
New  Style)  of  October,  1683.  It  was  evidently  the  plan  of  Penn 
to  wait  for  the  actual  arrival  of  a  considerable  number  of  Ger- 
mans and  then  assign  lands  as  the  number  and  character  of  the 
new  arrivals  seemed  to  justify. 

There  was  not  a  little  vacillation  on  the  part  of  the  prospect- 
ing German  colonists  as  to  the  wisdom  of  emigrating  to  America. 
This  was  particularly  the  case  with  the  members  of  the  German 
Company.  In  the  outset  it  was  evidently  expected  that  a  consid- 
erable number  of  the  Frankfurt  purchasers  should  actually  settle 
in  Pennsylvania.  This  is  apparent  from  the  correspondence  of 
Claypoole  and  Furly,  and  from  the  letter  of  Pastorius  to  Dr. 
Schiitz  in  Frankfurt,  dated  November  14,  1685., 

In  the  early  letters  to  Furly  under  date  of  January  24,  1682- 
3,  May  15,  1683,  May  18,  1683,  Claypoole  speaks  of  the  prospec- 
tive German  passengers  of  the  Concord  as  "Franckforders,"^'* 
"Ffranckfurtrs,"-^  "Ffrauckfords.-^  It  is  not  till  the  letter  of 
June  5,  1683,  that  we  hear  of  them  as  "the  people  from  Crevelt." 
This  letter  shows  that  Furly  had  sent  a  list  of  thirty-three  per- 
sons (the  so-called  Cref  elders)  to  Claypoole.'"^  From  this  time 
on  we  find  no  further  mention  of  the  Frankfurters,  which  seems 
to  indicate  clearly  that  the  great  things  expected  of  the  Frank- 


"The  passage  in  question  in  letter  of  January  24,  1682-3,  runs:  "As  for 
thine  and  ye  Ffranckfordrs  land  to  bee  sett  out  upon  a  Navigable  River,  that 
is  only  in  ye  power  of  ye  Governour  to  doe,"  etc. 

^'  Cf.  letter  of  May  15,  1683 :  "So  it  will  be  yett  about  6  weeks,  before  wee 
leave  England,  which  thou  mayst  advise  ye  Ffranckfurtrs,  that  they  may  be 
ready  against  the  tyme,"  etc. 

^  Letter  of  May  18,  1683 :  "As  J  have  advised  thee  in  my  last  that  we 
were  lymited  to  the  30th  next  month  to  be  ready  to  sayle  from  Gravesend 
so  that  if  the  Ffranckfords  do  intend  to  goe  in  our  ship  they  must  be  at 
Gravesend  by  that  time,"  etc. 

"Cf.  Letter  of  June  5,  1683:  "J  understand  the  people  of  Crevelt  have 
agreed  to  goe  in  our  ship  and  so  have  287  Rthlr  to  remit  thee  for  Y2  their 
freit,"  etc. 


338  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

furters  or  the  German  Company  in  the  beginning  of  the  corre- 
spondence were  left  for  the  Crefelders  to  carry  out. 

After  the  long  and  annoying  delays  recited  in  the  letters  of 
Claypoole,  the  Crefelders  finally  set  sail  from  Gravesend  and  ar- 
rived  at  Philadelphia  on  the  6th  (or  i6th,  New  Style)  of  Octo- 
ber, 1683.  They  numbered  thirteen  families,  thirty-three  full 
passengers  in  all.  Their  names  are  given  by  Pastorius^^  as  fol- 
lows: Dirck  op  den  Graeff,  Abraham  op  den  Graeff,  Herman  op 
den  Graeff,  Lenert  Arets,  Thones  Kunders,  Reinert  Tisen,  Wil- 
liam Strepers,  Jan  Lensen,  Peter  Keurlis,  Jan  Simen,  Johannes 
Bleickers,  Abraham  Tunis,  and  Jan  Luken. 

On  the  I2th  of  October,  1683,  six  days  after  the  arrival  of 
the  Crefelders,  Penn  issued  a  warrant  to  Pastorius  in  behalf  of 
the  German  and  Dutch  purchasers  for  6,000  acres  of  land  on  the 
east  side  of  the  Schuylkill : 

"William  Penn  Proprietary  &  Governr  of  ye  Province  of  Penn- 
silvania  |  &  ye  Territories  thereunto  belonging  |  At  ye  Request  of 
Daniel  Pastorius  in  behalf  of  ye  Germans  &  Dutch  Purchasers  yt  J 
would  grant  ym  Six  Thousand  Acres,  to  settle  upon.  These  are  to 
will  &  require  thee  forthwth  to  survey  or  cause  to  be  survey'd  unto 
him  for  ym  ye  said  Number  of  Acres  on  ye  Eastside  of  Skulkill 
River  and  make  returns  there  of  into  my  Secretary's  Office.  Given 
at  Philadelphia,  ye  12th  8br.  1683. 

Wm.  Penn.2» 

For  Thomas  Holme 
Surveyr  General." 

On  the  back  of  the  warrant  is  the  following  endorsement  in 
German,  in  Pastorius'  own  hand : 

"Warrant  vor  ein  Downship  von  6,000  ackers." 


^  Cf.  Grund-  und  Lager-Buch,  p.  — .  Friedrich  Kapp  {Franz  Daniel 
Pastorius,  Beschreibung  von  Pennsylvanien)  made  an  effort  to  determine  the 
forms  of  the  names  as  found  in  Crefeld  sources  with  the  following  result : 
Dietrich  op  de  Graeff,  Hermann  op  de  Graeff,  Abraham  op  de  Graeff,  Leon- 
hard  Arets,  Tiinis  Strepers,  Jan  Lensen,  Peter  Kuirlis,  Jan  Simens,  Johann 
Bleikers,  Abraham  Tunies,  Jan  Luycken. 

"  Philadelphia  Old  Rights,  No.  1869  (Department  of  Internal  Affairs, 
Harrisburg.) 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  339 

It  was  on  this  tract  that  Pastorius,  twelve  days  later,  on  the 
24th  of  October,  1683,  laid  out  the  first  German  township  and 
began  the  German  settlement  which  he  called  Germantown,  be- 
cause it  was  inhabited  by  Germans.  It  appears  from  the  same 
documentary  source^*^  that  the  6,000  acres  were  divided  equally 
between  the  German  Company  or  Society  and  the  Crefeld  pur- 
chasers, each  party  receiving  3,000  acres.  Thus  the  settlement 
of  Germantown  was  effected  by  the  union  of  the  interests  of  the 
Crefeld  Purchasers  and  the  German  Society.  This  is  evidently 
what  Penn  has  in  mind  when  he  refers  to  the  "Germans  and 
Dutch  Purchasers"  in  the  warrant.  Then  Zurich  A  gives  us 
the  further  interesting  information  that  Penn  had  set  apart  for 
the  Germans,  in  addition  to  the  6,000  acres  above  mentioned,  an- 
other tract  of  12,000  acres,  which  he  called  New  Franconia, 
("Neu  Franckenland" ) ,  possibly  with  the  expectation  that  this 
should  become  more  distinctively  a  settlement  of  High  Germans, 
that  is,  of  the  German  Society  proper,  the  so-called  Frankfurters, 
who  had  promised  to  follow  Pastorius  to  America.  This  seems 
the  more  likely  inasmuch  as  the  majority  of  the  first  settlers  of 
Germantown,  the  Crefelders,  bore  for  the  most  part  Low  Ger- 
man names,  and  came  from  near  the  Low  German  border.  Pas- 
torius, however,  in  his  report  bearing  the  same  date,  March  7, 
1684,  refers  to  this  New  Franconia  as  if  it  were  to  include  the 
whole  German  colony  of  present  and  prospective  settlers.  The 
original  German  translated  into  English  runs  as  follows : 

"I  could  wish  for  my  small  part  that  we  receive  a  small  sep- 
arate province,  and  be  so  much  the  better  able  to  protect  ourselves 
from  oppression.  If  one  of  you  could  release  himself  to  come  hither 
and  bring  with  him  so  many  families,  your  own  best  interests  would 
be  incomparably  advanced  thereby,  particularly  as  he,  W.  Penn, 
only  day  before  yesterday  said  to  me  that  he  would  favor  you 
above  all  the  English  settlers,  in  this  case,  who  had  previously  pur- 
chased but  were  not  yet  here,  and  would  grant  certain  privileges 
in  our  New  Franconia  (so  he  called  the  tract  designed  for  us).    In 


**  Cf.  Sichere  Nachricht,  Zurich  B.,  p.  6. 


340  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

case,  however,  it  is  too  difficult  for  you  to  transport  so  many  families 
in  such  a  short  time,  it  would  be  well,  in  my  judgment,  which  of 

course  is  not  binding,  that  the  friends  of  accept  a  few 

thousand  acres  and  assist  some  households,  from  their  rich  abund- 
ance, to  come  hither  in  order  that  the  15,000  acres  may  be  assigned 
to  us  together  and  without  any  English  neighbors  intervening; 
especially  as  he  wishes  to  grant  them  too  far  from  this  city,  namely, 
on  the  Schuylkill  above  the  Falls,  where  he  himself  thinks  of  build- 
ing a  house  and  establishing  a  Manor.  The  land  next  to  the  river 
is  quite  hilly,  and  not  ill-adapted  to  grape  culture ;  but  further  in, 
it  is  level  and  productive.  The  worst  is  that  it  is  impossible  to  pass 
the  falls  and  the  rocks  with  a  boat  (except  when  there  has  been 
much  rain,  and  then  not  without  danger).  Inasmuch  as  I  did  not 
know  what  you  would  decide  to  do  in  this  case,  and  yet  much  de- 
pends upon  this  matter;  also  concerning  the  oft  mentioned  15,000 
acres  with  the  cost  of  28  pounds  sterling,  viz.,  5  shillings  of  Eng- 
lish currency  for  every  100  acres,  as  charges  for  surveying,  which 
money  I  have  not  on  hand,  I  must  wait  for  your  decision  in  order 
not  to  transgress  the  limits  of  a  faithful  agent.  In  order,  how- 
ever, that  I  may  locate  the  three  families  which  have  arrived  upon 
their  600  acres,  I  have  united  with  the  Crefelders  (who  have  bought 
18,000  although  they  cannot  obtain  them  in  one  tract)  and  taken 
up  6,000  acres  for  a  township,  of  which  they  have  3,000  and  we 
3,000.  This  city  I  laid  out  the  24th  of  October  and  called  it  Ger- 
mantown." 

Thus  the  first  German  pioneer  cherished  the  idea  of  a  sep- 
arate German  Province  within  the  larger  Province  of  Pennsyl- 
vania, "a  State  within  the  State,"  in  which  the  German  colonists 
might  have  their  own  peculiar  rights,  institutions  and  mode  of 

life. 

So  it  appears  that  without  the  Crefeld  purchasers,  the  found- 
ing of  Germantown  could  scarcely  have  been  effected,  as  Pastorius 
had  with  him  neither  the  purchasers  of  his  German  Company  or 
Society,  nor  settlers  to  take  up  the  land  which  the  Society  had 
purchased.  It  was  possible  only  by  uniting  the  interests  of  the 
Crefelders  and  those  of  the  German  Society  to  secure  a  grant  in 
one  solid  tract.  The  Crefelders  had  bought  in  all  18,000  acres  of 
land,  but  could  not  obtain  a  grant  for  it  all  in  one  tract.  Pas- 
torius. having  encountered  like  diiificulties  in  securing  a  large 
tract,  and  having  three  families  representing  the  lands  of  the  Ger- 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  341 

man  Society,  joined  the  two  interests  in  order  to  accomplish  in 
the  form  of  a  compromise  the  purpose  of  the  two  groups  of  set- 
tlers. 

Such  were  the  arduous  labors  and  devious  ways  through 
which  Pastorius  passed  in  founding  the  first  German  colony.  It 
was  his  untiring  patience,  steady  persistence,  and  masterful  tact 
which  won  these  important  concessions  from  Penn  in  the  face  of 
the  pronounced  opposite  policy  of  the  Proprietary.  Only  a  man 
well  versed  in  the  intricate  science  of  law  and  acquainted  with  the 
conditions  of  both  settler  and  Proprietary  could  have  achieved 
such  an  amicable  arrangement  as  that  which  Pastorius  secured  for 
the  German  township. 

The  settlement,  Germantown,  was  laid  out  with  one  main 
street,  sixty  feet  wide,  and  cross  streets  forty  feet  wide.  Three 
acres  were  allowed  as  the  lot  for  each  house ;  Pastorius,  however, 
had  double  that  number  of  acres  for  his  own  house.  The  loca- 
tion of  the  lots  is  shown  in  an  old  map  of  Germantown  of  the 
year  1688.  It  will  be  seen  from  this  map,  as  well  as  from  the 
surveys,  that  this  first  German  settlement  was  not  located  on  the 
Schuylkill,  as  seems  to  have  originally  been  contemplated,  but 
some  distance  eastward  toward  Mill  Creek,  a  small  tributary  of 
the  Wingacocum.  Thus  the  original  agreement  that  the  German 
tract  should  be  on  a  navigable  stream  was,  after  all,  evaded  by 
Penn,  who  seems  to  have  been  inclined  to  circumvent  or  alter  the 
original  agreement  with  the  Germans  at  every  essential  point. 

Step  by  step  the  German  town  grew  and  throve  so  that  Pas- 
torius was  able  to  report  on  the  7th  of  March,  1684,  that  twelve 
families,  numbering  forty-two  persons  in  all,  were  living  happily 
in  the  new  settlement.  It  appears,  from  the  next  report  from  Pas- 
torius, in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Schiitz  in  Frankfurt,  dated  May  30th. 
1685,  that  he  himself  was  still  living  in  Philadelphia,  although  he 
writes  that  his  thoughts  are  now  in  Philadelphia  and  now  in  Ger- 
mantown. 

The  first  year  in  the  new  settlement  was  naturally  one  of 
great  hardship  and  exposure.     Pastorius  offered  temporary  shel- 


342  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

ter  under  his  own  modest  roof  for  some  of  the  newly  arrived 
Germans,  and  the  rest  found  quarters  elsewhere,  according  to 
tradition  in  "caves"^^  or  rather  probably  rude  huts,  with  cellars, 
until  houses  were  ready  for  them  in  Germantown.  The  most 
pinching-  circumstances  were  the  scarcity  of  money  and  provis- 
ions, and  the  lack  of  carpenters  and  other  skilled  workmen. 
These  conditions  are  graphically  set  forth  in  the  report  of  March 
7,  1684.32 

The  land  transactions  of  Pastorius  as  agent  of  the  Grerman 
Company  during  the  early  years  may  be  seen  in  the  Grund-  und 
Lager-Buch.  Relatively  few  sales  or  rentals  of  land  are  recorded. 
A  glance  at  this  old  record  will  give  the  impression  that  Pastorius 
opened  the  book  with  large  expectations,  but  was  obliged  to  leave 
most  of  the  large  folios  blank.  The  following  transfers  by  Pas- 
torius for  the  German  Company  are  entered : 

I. — The  transfer  of  50  acres  to  Paul  Wulfif,  under  date  of 
July  29,  1685   (Grund-  und  Lager-Buch,  p.  207). 

2. — The  transfer  of  50  acres  to  Abraham  Isaacs  op  de 
Graefif,  March  15,  1686  (Grund-  und  Lager-Buch,  p.  199). 

3. — The  transfer  of  25  acres  to  Isaac  Dilbeeck  by  a  deed 
dated  May  27,  1686  (Grund-  und  Lager-Buch,  p.  159). 

The  following  transfers  were  effected  entirely  or  in  part  by 
members  of  the  company  on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic  and 
were  later  confirmed  and  recorded  in  Pennsylvania : 

T.  Fifty  acres  *****  were  "granted  by  Benjamin  Furly, 
Agent  and  Attorney  of  the  Franckfort  Company  at  Rotterdam,  to 
John  Luken,  his  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  which  sd  deed  beareth 
date  the  8th  day  of  the  month  called  June  Anno  1683"  (Grund- 
und  Lager-Buch,  p.  105). 

2. — Johah  Willhelm  Ueberfeldt  deeded  his  1,000  acres  to 
Francis  Daniel  Pastorius,  July  11,  1683.    The  deed  was  executed 


"  Cf.  Watson's  Annals  of  Philadelphia. 

"  Cf.  Sichere  Nachricht  (Zurich  B.),  p.  6  ff.,  in  the  photographic  repro- 
duction. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  343 

in  Frankfurt-on-the-Main  (a  copy  in  German  and  in  English 
translation  is  found  in  Pastorius'  hand  among  the  Pastorius  MSS. 
in  the  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania). 

3._"Thomas  van  Wylich  and  Jhon  le  Brun,  both  partners 
of  the  Franckfurt  Company,  by  the  third  article  of  in  Jndenture 
made  with  Heyvert  Papen  the  23d  of  the  ist  month  i  March, 
1685,"  deeded  50  acres  to  Heyvert  Papen  (Grund-und  Lager- 
Buch,  p.  219). 

4. — Johann  Jacob  Schiitz.  Jacobus  van  de  Walle  and  Daniel 
Behagel  made  a  contract  with  Johann  and  Arnold  Cassel,  who 
were  to  take  up  and  cultivate  50  acres  of  land  in  Pennsylvania. 
This  document  is  so  explicit  in  detail  that  we  print  it  here  in  the 
original  German.^^  It  is  attested  by  the  Imperial  Notary,  Chris- 
tian Fenda,  at  Frankfurt-on-the-Main. 


"Jm  nahmen  Gottes  haben  Johann  Jacob  Schiitz,  Jacobus  von  de  Walle 
und  Daniel  Behagel  fiir  sich  und  im  nahmen  derer  Mitgenossen  Pennsilvani- 
scher  Compagnie  Zu  Franckfurt  am  Mayn  in  Teutschland  und  Consorten, 
als  Erbverleyer  an  Einem  Theil  mit  uns  Johann  und  Arnold  Cassel,  Vatter 
und  Sohn,  beyden  ackersleiiten,  unseres  alters  respective  47.  und  22.  Jahr  als 
Erbbestandern  andern  theils  nach  folgender  gestalt  contrahirt  und  geschlossen : 
Erstlich  sollen  und  wollen  wir  uns  samt  den  unserigen  und  gehoriger 
Nothurfft,  auff  unsere  alleinige  kosten,  so  bald  moglich,  von  hier  iiber  Engel- 
land  nacher  Peiisilvania  in  America  begeben ;  2.  Die  von  besagter  Compagnie 
dortigen  Sachwalter  uns  daselbsten  im  wald  angeviriesene  Fiinftzig  Morgen 
oder  acker  lands  in  bau  bringen ;  Das  darauff  befindliche  Holtz  ausrotten,  und 
benothigte  wohnung,  scheiirn  und  stallungen  fiir  uns  daselbst  auff  unsere 
kosten  anrichten,  auch  3.  Der  Compagnie  von  jedem  acker  oder  morgen 
Jahrlich  Drey  Viertel  Schilling  Englisch,  hiesiges  gelds  fiinftzehen  kreutzer. 
Erbpacht  ( :  welcher  Zinsz  am  Ende  des  andern  Jahres  vom  tage  unserer 
ankunfft  in  Pensivania  das  erste  mahl  gereicht  werden  soil  :)  erlegen.  4. 
Gegen  solchen  Jahrlich  richtig  eingeliefferten  Erbpacht  sollen  und  wollen  wir, 
unsere  Kinder  und  Kinds  kinder,  so  lang  unser  Geschlecht.  Mann  und  Weibs 
linien  weren,  auff  besagten  von  uns  erbauten  giittern  bleiben  und  unvertrieben 
seyn.  5.  Dafern  unser  geschlecht  iiber  kurtz  oder  lang  gar  absterben  solte, 
so  soil  dieses  land  samt  dessen  besserung  der  obgesagten  Compagnie,  als 
Erb-lehnherren,  wieder  vollkomlich  heimfallen.  6.  Weilen  wir  die  vollige 
Mittel,  uns  selbsten  allda  in"  stand  zu  setzen,  nicht  haben,  sondern  theils  von 
vorbesagter  Compagnie  uns  vorgeschossi?n  werden,  alsz  versprechen  wir  deme 
absonderlich    hieruber   verfertigten    Vergleich,    unter    Gottes    hiilffe,    unver- 


344  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

h'i>  will  appear  from  these  few  entries  there  was  httle  activ- 
ity in  the  sale  of  the  land  purchased  by  the  German  Company. 
Most  of  the  transfers  of  land  were  made  by  the  Crefeld  Purchas- 
ers. These  transactions  are  recorded  also  in  the  Grimd-und  La- 
ger-Buch. 

The  details  of  the  holdings  of  the  members  of  the  German 
(or  Frankfurt)  Company,  and  the  manner  of  distributing  lots  at 
a  later  time,  are  given  by  Pastorius  in  the  beginning  of  the 
Gnind-und  Lager-Buch.  The  account  is  here  printed  in  English 
translation : 

"The  whole  Germantownship  comprises  according  to  the  fore- 
going patent  or  land  warrent  5700  acres.  Of  this  2675  acres  be- 
long to  the  members  of  the  Company  as  a  whole,  as  first  purchasers, 
viz., 

To  Jacobus  van  de  Walle 535  acres 

To  Johaii  Jacob   Schiitz    428  acres 

To  Johaii  Wilhelm  Ueberfeld    107  acres 

To  Daniel  Behagel 356  acres 

To  Gorg  Strauss 179  acres 

To  Jan  Laurens   535  acres 

To  Abraham  Haesevoet  535  acres 

2675  acres 


briichlich  nachzukomen.  Alles  getreulich  und  sender  Gefahrte :  Dessen  zur 
wahren  Urkundt  ist  dieser  Contract  Dreymahl  originaliter  auff  pergament 
unter  beiderseits  Contrahenten  unterschrifft  und  pitschafften,  mit  Corrobora- 
tion des  hierzu  erbettenen  Notarij  Caes.  Publici  ausgefertiget.  Signatum 
Franckfurt  den  3iten  Martij  Anno  1686. 
Johan   Jacob   Schiitz.  () 

Daniel  Behagel  () 

Jacobus  van  de  Walle  () 

Johannes  und  Arnold  Cassell     Q 
Jn   fidem    praemissorum    attestire 
ich   Christian  Fenda,  Keyl.   ap- 
probiert.    und     immatriculierter 
offenbarer  Notarius. 
Gepassirt  in  Court  of  Record  den  iQten  tag  des 
8ten  Monats  1697. 

Peter  Schumacher  Justice. 
Aret  Klincken  Justice. 


^ii^Ctc  Ttad)vid}t  aug  America ,  ft>f^en  ^^r  2anbf(^(\f(i 
^(nn\r)lvanux  /  von  dnem  Dorf^m  gcrciptcn  Zmkl)(n/ 

dedatofhiUdclphiJ.fdl;.  Marcii  u-^. 

^iii«  f(t)ii!6^cii  Dblu^di^cif  fo  wol  nl?  an*  ntciiKni  :«'r(f;[cNi(f?c!i  ^>crtrrc(f)ai  tin 
»<iui3(iiiul<it{oi/toiirf)cttrajtimWfjiit(i.f'cradv.iircn,  iriciii;tn'ag  rf;  bictiaec 

u  i^iCKfc AftatiOH ibrcrrKibiiitcr ^.lf  iil1lr.Kfu^ra  inirtcii ,  tcrmUcrc  irfi  jimitor'- 

..i.\(1)li*tctf<ii  tcr  iXcip  imp  Ten  ^^i^aimcl  bicfuKr^Proviii^  /  a:s  ten  umi  aiitcrii  wit 

koAmSei.SffiS  ft^  9?.otettaiti  iin>  (f  lujcUaiiD  ci;it  crmaSc 

to./jc.  5n«  atlt  SaiSaS^  f^£ft?f '•''''^^  'l'"""'"'  ^"^ ^^ »"^''^«"  / «»* "''"'"nt  4(bo. 


Jo( 


imxn 


:•'.."■"  ""Ill 

fc:i<5cralt^cinmMniufeiitc5circil  tatn\nt3fflunil%ilbnuM>KiMc:iiciTc!i.  lluP  barteirt)  m(1)iii(f;t,iiiff  i 

bc»vatl\-ii .filter .svciint' ,  ii; (iiiiKlUiit ,  niit iiiitci irt.v.ctu.lcu 23crfriri1;«iii?g-.?Oitrt<iii  tcifoMt / Htffa  i 

<ci  v<iiiuitMii1iiiLHi  lib  (laviifci.KiMi.    :iil  tcip^t^^cu  i^oii  fliuii  tic6ii.rmoaiif)crcjtucifciU3(mii((/  -j 
i  tvoljubociMilncii  hipricciintcNt,  woitvcn-Ulinic  i()ic(M<!K5lc!ltf)Uii/  crcrfo  welter iriiiamitSt  ' 

rt'.gaiuliratiuiitnutDanetfnffvr^puii'tl.i'CtiiuKn/uicviciuiitivdrtxrKDtic  t^iiiili  tcfcmiiKiifoi. 
i  Icn  i  ti!it  tc.irclKMi iciic >Kiuiucr tarni iu vcrbintdi  / nui§ ma.i  ums^ vvciiuue ton t er  ,^raii)t  ^U^ia  ju 

ijciaMc.i  a.iiKhcnlaiTcii  ini(f)womi^4l:rf)U'ft'"i""f'^"<>  '^rtjm  autf tiiujcii /  tag  bip  ini)i(\u]<Stau 
'  OMnurcivMaiu iU"'.ibtt,M  nmiimitc<iirtiitcrn/lUmUFiaiiHi(jcni)«i6<iiy  mi)\m:\(\}tx^mWliik* 

fticiuintcnvcrtfc:iii?.  _     ,        ^  -  ^  *,, ..  . 

Cniciiic  ibcKiiulnifft  bcnuut  rtug  f  tclcrtcp  fecrt  iciitcn'ta  war  cm  T^.  SO^ctn  ma:  nut  fciium  !33(i& 
!  UDts.  ivtiitcvii  (in5raimor.c;avifaiii;cin9iictcvtcutt(tKc5lii(1)(iib(ct"cr^ciii  2lvcthC(ter/®iasbUKr/ 
'  fOuiur(tAg(tmitt2Ba'yicr,e(tti'i'iv'r.^-i'i'''<>"v'-piif"i>'ii*«'  'SrtjuiuTy^rfMicita 

S(jatcrtii:'eii/K.  in aliciii ctlirt)  mil  So/pcvioncii, aiiiTcv  tan  ^eititfrdct.    eoirfjc  miii  fmt  mrf)t  iiDr 
I  ihrmiM(r(maiTcuiinrcrc.Mt(|t<5t<"i6o.'o'i^r;tagiuiuvl<  iiint  abcriiiiru.2Bo(lKii  aitmdrfl)) 

imt  nuiKurffimai -tpanttbiauiuj  iu(t  untctfitiictcii/iLMitcin  and)  to  ti|fa'ciU(niX<lt3ion<ii  imtffiitn* 


tifctjcii  lint  nut  t«  (^nalifrtKi^  i^'^*'-"  f"''"!!  ant  niir  ciiKii  Qiiacf cr.    S)(n  1 1 .  idKj.  wurffeii  wr  MS 
<trtcina[tafiotanMtntwiirtcniUtxn;&rtafiwittid:tH-ptcr.w'lTfitS'tiK'mi(t/Uiitrt(rojU^^ 
rf)cuint>Kacln/Vufoic^ii(f)m(()vtanii  loo,  2ri(iiniauiT«iiiiic'.iiC"oiir5laiitfeiiinii|l«n. 

S>cii  1 6  tito  b'*f amen  wir  ^Uncricani  tnit  Srcutcn  ins  0ciut)t  /  uiit  ijdmiijfen  ten  1 8.  Wormi 
In  ten  £!eiawarrc  baw  /  welft)«  w-  ^n^l.  iSJciun  (an^/unt  i  f .  bwit/aiifcei)  son  fo  uii^lciftet  Jie/fe  i|l/ 
ta§«eilen unfcr ort)iff M- Su^iti't"'" 2Ba<Tcnveii<5  wir et(iit>in.il aiiifin «5ant fiijeii bdebeiu 

Tseuio  fiit*rcnw;r^"'i<in5aftie  llrlant  untI>ijiiiiiiin»Orben;  uiitfln:it?irt(nniifeinbreif)ent<H 
2Ifeent'©o« iobmCictiKti  Ui  i^hiiateli'bia ;  ta  i(T)  te^  foKjeiiteii  '^A^i  tie  niit^abeiite6(t)teib{ii  ait 
^  ^Pennuberlieffctte  iiiittoiiif)incmiiiiebvoiierSr<untli(f;f<it<mpfaui<intiutCi  ton  iHefem  f^r 
ta>cttbcnaRannuntiu&imtiutuieii9\c^enfciiio(rei(liM((i(e       _  .      ^.,    ,     -,^  . 

11  <f  111  lint  aiitersiiberff^Kibcui  allctii,  nKine5<ter/(  Jriewcffict'OnemeinTlMer/  \tmM  - 
renlirfi  tin  fo  acnanufcr  2Qitter  in  meiii  ^aii^  ^ebrattt )  ill  viel  iu  ]<i)mtp  I  tie  t)Cf).<  'JiHcnten tic<<rf 
-Y5fe"i7eii  tannfoKfiesiftSrintcr^eat  jiHvrriniiteM.  C?r(i^frtini(f)iuni6fterii  an  leineJaffci  bitten/ 
yTnrt  inrin(v!eterieit«bauii(()en<»ere((f(tafftaugwante(iiiin6reiren  *  untta  i<f)mm  ?-1^  von 
*  ir  n  bl^ic(uali<ntonSReueaf{((iu^o(en/aniren»ar/ nnt  er  nit«trcl(te.3cir  fl^^^^ 
Sim  f  r  re tbil  in  niein  Jbaurij<n  /  ml u^mt  /  i(t  folfe tort)  worti<n tititi  ein  vaar  inai  bet)  i^ine  iu  ©flft 
t? «  "c    & i^atik  ()«r(ilt(t lUb/imt fa^(e eintfotfeiitliit)  in niciner m(nmrtmj(v^ 

\X\rm  lint  llmbUcOcntcn :  ^U  ^  ^  ^  ^  Hb  \A)  (ieb  /  ant  wit /  tat«  iftr  fie  atiit l!<b<ri  mji 
onlmoi  irt)  iibri^Kiif  niemaieii  ter^leic^en  s8efe((C/worf  tjoii  i&in  jc^oret  m<i  mi^^<t  mir  fe  m 
Si  uSS'c  ficmitt<in(Bebot(«)o«eg(  vid.  ,.3of,.j/M.  )^an^uctit)f6rni(.3(int.  ^^tman^ 
ri^  ,,fhv  Mill  t fa  n  / al^ta^  2Bi((.  ^cmltin  CWann f(f»)/we((fier  (bettmtnwl  von  56iik wi<t«  g(« 
ii*^",  lirV- Set  ta^  mc  liebet/ant wn  rtfloi  «ufeti  tnit  rettt  Adkfxt  wirt ;  :c.  3(1;  jtrciffie  iii*f / <| 
Serten  iiMfiiSc  kmin  an()«o  tomnKn/unt  im  2B<r(f  crfa^ven  /  ui  nmt  5<t«  OieniiiifaW  no<9 

.    '^Vi Vi .  ISen unt  9?ieterteiitrrf)e  /  wH(bc  lo.  3a6r unt  (4n>Kr  fodi^M  i-f baiif  /  f'-jl* «' N<gnj 

Q5riint  lint  »ot< n  «'  *  7^^,  ^ ,.„fjn,cn  <,ebiiOr(i(fc  bearbeiten  unt  mi|ten  wclte .  an  weirfien  j»  ?en 
tebelobnenw   t  /     J      J  ^,^'   3>;uun^cta*feaifeeinwo(,iierMntrrfne<t.rcDe«nomi/^a^ 


Jfl()ct  |t<  au(t  gctiiigcn  3?iJiicii  tartoii  fitiorffcn.  6i£tcr(i(t/  lit  'Poiiitciif}  /  niit  tvclrta  (Bott  t(nJ^ 
^orfamJltanigbeftraift  rrtt!Crim(S(t)n?<iP  Killed 2lii,3ofiitt«  foUc  fdn  2^ro6  fiTcii  /  iK^ft  an*  Min 
S?ti(t)f5inm(ingrrf;afffiii  tie|ciiiaiiD<iirtii/unt»  mogencicKni^e  /  tvcittc  ibrer^Jiiitc  jii'fit'oncii.Kt'en' 

(fell,  IH'tbUibCll  wo  lie  flWO  i  Hic  opus ,  hic  labor  eft ,  lint  ift  lll^t  fJCllII^;  &Ui:  (onUx  (ScilcijClIlH'lf  ill 

hxrctcn  a\\i}<uii  bringcii,  Daimce  fcrlicrtfrtt  untatcii.pAntciiiintima.j  iilnvol  luit  Sflioiucn  (aA<i\  ■ 
(Bi Ut  SiA^C-  2^''ff<" i'«tvi(t)cn(t  34f)r  fe^t  bid i<ut bcrtcg au^  ^id--  imr  3rr(aiir/a:6  <ju* 25 (ir*' 
battoeVuiit  »"if'T>i  2lnKriC4iii|(txii  Jiifudi  tjier  anf  ciiKii/imf  ti<(c  'Provfinii  iip(t)  iiirtjt  fiitfUiiiK  kUDs-- 
mittd  tor  fcfitf  a)?<ii!?c  ^crforbriiigt,  tahixo  aik'Sktmiitn  mUiO}  tfxnal  un'^i^djt  rcr  timbc  mcit! 
«UeiOiiJ»i5aiiferba(biaitt)e:ocfoitbctfeiitr!rinitterc^citrtRb«D(rl<9(iiicnitK^rcriiUlH7flug<ii^ 
I)«n,iri'n2B.'Pcim0clD|(t)(at}cii/uiitDcr2lcfcrbiiubC!Tcrb<iW(ctn)irM2<.    2irbeir8icur  iinD  JSaucm 
finl  cniiii)  am<i  am iii.Mt)i;jfKij  /  tint  irrmfitJc  ((f)  niir  tvtn <iii  ©ufSent  iTarrfc  ivxoln  /  tie  Ci'cfcii  eu 
(tjcr.bjumiiidcrjintcrtfai,  taniiwcftinniaiiriitmirirentt/  taf)iiift$:  icur  m  antiquam  fyivam, 
tii^am luir <iii 2Balt ,  uiit fail  mciii^ («r< ^Piafj  jii tiiitcii/  trcriiiiifaW /  \vk aurfi in crditcn aiitcrii 
©tutfcii/mictiiKinqtit'orgcfaiTtc^oifHUiia  bcrro^cii/alb^neiiiblirf)  /  ta^  in  tcr.iid(^{ii  ttjiitcii  »"Haiim« 
gartcn  t^aiifs  t(ina<pff<(nori)  SSirn  aiijiirrffffn/aiiit)  tio'cii/irkwoi (m faireii 2Ciiita  f c iii.t^iri'iii  t^-jj 
licuiun/jf .  ju  bcf omnun  ^cttcKn.  Sie  wiu  Jraiibcn  fiiit  >^ar  f idii  /  unt b<qiiciiicr  / '  cStTi^'' a[g  hm 
MvauSminaa^n  -  tkwciiitcD^fi^t^abfniUcrau^ticfetSftatcn  unttt5cnif5ticf(^crnfniii  tagfi 
cfp  mii|tanicii  2Uiftii1)(ai3cn£ifaumirctib  iliit/tic  JKltcii  aber  mil)  ^ar<iiiriH  frnt  aivab'  ^cfrf'niacf cr/ 
h)icau(ttic>Pfainii5(2ln^ffe(  ant  JSiriifc^rqiir  lint  iii(fct6tarauiiKatc(n,iji)iictaS<8tcr^^^ 
niw^iebt  >iu  ciiiige  tcrlaii^tn/zc.  ^ini^c^Kn  fint  nu^r iX^tcdlittan^cn  t  tcrcn  Stiili  fotiirt)/;  im  *ant/ 
fli6_,iin«licbi|lxc  CiiO(^tipircniacniiipi(ttaoc)uamtcftisocuhcusl)iVtb(!ifu.Kn  taptcni6  Octcb 

wwnaiigdCijt/untteiUf.tifonntnfbcnantcrnjiirutfanbcroiianijcn/Wiriintatt'caecinciiaiuiitciu 
^ftiimaiitrijciaiitffnfii  tri(ten2B(in(Ic(f  ai^crrcffcii  /iroranb<n  400.  ?raub<ii  biciUKii .  tvcPhaibcti 
tt'irtaimtcn  i^anni  innb^fiiaufn ,  iiiigaKe  s.  cratti.jt/  iint  }(t<x  ncd)  (incii  .t?tit  v>oU  iiiir  firti  nari) 

SJX'^'^^  y^rcnipd  ill  ^aiitcii  Moi  nvmn  w\x  ticfc  crinilirt)  an  ten  PfliM  (c^cn  ivcrtcn.  '^lt) 

1.1  .^M,^'"^'^'^/''-^!^*.'" "''^^*"''  "'^''^  tip autf  2.  tctrcrbcn. i^iffcrttebnter  SB.pcnn  baf ciiicn  23ci  l 
&  k^.«''"^'-'L- ^<t"""'9<ffliii><  t;«(r 2Ba(f)gtbuiiu)iit iiii] anjuittaucij,  iiiit  luir ; ais ((t) Htfab/ 
M6  ■  f .  aap.  oo^amiigju  nartjftniilirfjdi  ©ciiiAth  ffibrte.  '^' 

tlr*I^f  ^^i^"";^"""'^'*  '^'"'^^"^^  "'f^'f  q>6i(at(trbif(fc(ebcn  woUcirdUc,pi,,nrtn)crtcn  KS 
fcan<gfintenfi(f)«lt(fK  Muff  tic  fi(tffig(i<f;frt)i(ft  /  wa.^  terlicbcSKunt  S  1, 

^aiitbricff^cn UKltn, ta^ wir ncnibiiit allOitr nicbr Slofb wn t<ii tc  tmbcncn  Gbriffcn /  aSonS 
Snltancni^abcn.  Scrnawcttcn  and)  aia  init  tar  (5t.Ut  a  1  uS  AnaS  ttc  Sd  rS  dn  „  iV 

miitlcn.    25<ii  2Dm  nart)  bfra^c  (Her.  ,?S  '  '^  '"'t''i^^''if ''^  '"'tern  ticiieii 

ffiaUbcvcth.jt|e«.  »i<jpaumEatiS^^  ^niiMiKllcn  als  cniciii  nanirlnl^fii 


iKu ^^  v>Kl  uiiD  fail  irf}  nm  C3nint  r<f  :Sart?tit  rcrtxtctii  tan  i(t>  m  eurcra  '■  r^'^  tj^o  ^((i,^ 
S  S.  jSli  "luuciNMuf tinahlf  abcv  t  as  2B.t<ti  vid :  £i^  u.it  IM  if!  tctlotun  n-orloi,  tt«  <,„,«„ 

ur folrfKi  ctiul^c.^  ni)t.i:tu1)c rououttitt  H< MMi  io.3abi;ti«  Mat tctrcbua,  imrtirf) alio 4K^mm 
ifl m  a  1  uciniirf,^  ^(Mcna  55ranCcnbur.^ (r/Jpoitlc.iKv.AirtjnrciHcr  2c  aud-  maxMxmxitvMii^ 
iV.  ri  ^all  ^a.uKt  /  fcntcra  vcn  tuicn  I'ct  cticrcm  fo  .mm\un  ^i^urcii  nKiiK9?a(f)nfl)tfir?ffi^ 

Sidii  ?«Tc  mliWik niif  vot  aiuu'ii  f Diiimcii/tratcii  tic  )ciii.uii  jitcc  fc  bci^  UrUiit  am  mmUnx 

^nif'iS^^^^^       «"^-f'^"  r(trvaviili(f)ronUcib / mtUrbw ibrWcmttrmh  blau  jc^Hf 

ItZ   iiifiunimU'im<vti<i>uif^^  tic ^ilwNiijf j?iii. 

« rv  uuii  mif  ai'  tct  i afci  Mfi  /  ttcfciunuu la^uc  20-  f  i"""  (^rcirtiev ihrc -erra*  ii(itili(()  prcnitttctdi 
ini  )catnd)<iii  Jcututcf  :  •  fanuTaifotctu. Cctobr. ivicaiirfUcn  ii.l>«cmbr.  cinaiitcm j^O' 
Mi  uiit  "ilmii  v'liiuiKin  -'Miir'.  '^tcml'it•(r(l!uffcnm^1)  ticKBciiiciiicicbr  cfit  tcii<ni(titO(^fdf}(JUj(it 
n  fi'c Mcbniitciiiciii ^turf VL'rot iiiit  inuul -i^ict ciivciic  ircrtiivil' taimciiic 6o^<ii-iict' "nliiiciicr* 
tt^-tfrMtt\iiitncniii1)rurrti.ulHUt.^^cutrilMUrtiui/it(ineariiTiiiiO(tafi|}'.i^riitcr)ii<nii<ii,  an.'^^t 
^''■^i'rai1)'i1in.^nn!u1tuiit.vbt  iiuuiic^I>arroibaltciietcr3taiu^mi(t}<iuiiiWi-ai'itiStirciiii}na(t/.\i-. 
Kh7.-  Hrtiiiit  ^\atuv  i-cti  cn<at  /  muf  man  licfo  ju  vctcn  1  u  bd  iiHn  ;;s  ,rcii  m  tic ;  itcirfjc  (inc  ^tii'^n^ 
mif  i/i  10  acnaniucn  O'bvit^ciuoin  criirt/miD  tic;  10  cril  aiif'anJicii  aiiHl?rcn -pofcn  fewor  <u  f^^^^^ 
T>an  i icncV.it  tcrutmibt iiiit  aiaiirna,«cht<8  fictcii  ob,r.n,ior.,r:{ii  ^Imil-^ibtitUn  ju  taiutcn  ; 
f  rrrf'T  •  i\^^i-  £oi(i)ciiicrnun  tcriciitc  inirncmi(1)icii!cn  ira^ricniciMum  llnt«» 
t.f'^ir  iniViiirlUtM(t)<run.ila^crmircincni£aiiciiucnbvin.wi»roitcbtad)t()cto4aiit(irciiet4(( 
tlun^iiux  iir,t\roUcnvi1>bct<tcn  cgfcnciiioaluun  :(.  2^ai(f)iMnabcrrpr!?cllct(/  tapiitnuat 
0  N  ' acicbcii  bcfanntccr  Acacii  ciiicii  tarbcp  ilcbcntcii  ^rfnrctcii ,  tap  cr  cs  auEi  «ctni(3 '?<'ti(Jn  /  in 
<Tl?^nmlla^vciuvIrcr|Im6^lntrlMlllllcn  KtMOKl^r^Mciroacnaiiiiiit'tfaincntriirtc.  ^Jiiidiitcr 
Sr  can niciiicni Camni ten  ^^^i antcwcin  alio :  ^^^r  itcif re Kiiicii Siiuurtarciii /  iiiit ticfcii  ^crnafe 
Kiicr  unib  ui 'cbcn  ob ami) :Da'Vcr  uiitcrnKn,u  ktc  .vc.  j.c.  3>ic!c  (ci^icrc  ijin^cjcii  finC  cine* 
rScii «cinii  fc^  l-cicitiac n  nicmant  imt babcii  ivir m^m ibncii ^aiKi iiiit't  jii fiirrfwn  (f m 
?5i  XatnirlcHibnuiciTju-rcrBcn  taut,  tic  tteimcnuintc  IkrniaMiun.uniicr?  tcMtaifaf  cr* 
S!tc  laJtr  fciiu ^-uinacr  iu*t  tot  ten nioruciiteii  laA lor^en loimi /  mnm<i  Me^ertea tm. 
^rt?ictaJ)K(il'CMiiiriibilcii  ^rieflnunallcjitogarrettcOit:  ?^qaiiinrirCMi)?einu*fm'Prmi» 
Jrnkfuffeni  t  Kbri^uMiaf;uMetleinnuVi.tttci^  _3>a  Dicic .pen  en  i^re itcr|OMiiii(j 

titrunt  aim  e  I  .1,  ^  UP  ^d)  la^ecbcMtanialfi  \i!m2h(t(mfam* 

EeS  r  Sb^Kerilfcr  /  ibre  ma  rtaxm  ^nm  I  f^rinir  lie  tae  >^-'''^''V:Ba^cr  aui-up. 
J  n?,,  Kl    cr\f i(ter.'iSlatfei7  tie fic iiatti t<v ^JJaMi^itMi  noibuj (jabcii abjiirnii^kii Mit) ailf 

farSSiS5fcn;!(e?5J?feS 

®'"' ^St?nV  JcSSrieS'r  a.^ 

33on tciien  i  ^|V,  f  V  c  anpc  =?cit  iiber  ben  aeiiiiitem  ^ii'faiit nut  .jiifcin  limnt txftinUnt 

inu<iiin?un(t»erufMnJc'^"^ 


luiii  •pJiiift.5cnr{fjrti1)ir.iitMniicr<r'ivarc!ik-ijcwiimi\;i(;tij.iniio&uc  ^iulxn^  /  i.'itft  ml)  atcr  oois 
5iiju;it  JtViiuitrcrKifeciMuri^cirmiin  .III. 

2>J6  erffliitfrc^ant  iiiin  ('<rrcf^cll^:  (virMDlitic^  in  ixtHxl<\)  lUt  Abwhdkt i  nmilirfi  '(JnTdVI) 
fimtfjchcii  Mu'■cH^  iifcrsbcpramiiKii  m  ciiiim  cn'ict  unt  iiii  ciucm  I'liirtVcutci!  ^i^jifcr.    ^wcrtciisj/, 

(5(ol»ilI.  i>rif(fii6'  ^rl•l)^opin  Ccr^wtt  -p.itiKr  raraiif  iiibaacii.  <Iiis  i(t>  niiii  iiarf)  niciiKt 
Tliiocrf  iir.rff  i'Oi  20.  -pcii/i  iiinb  2Barraiitf ,  )ciif.u'Dait)fc  ^l■a'cr(C9  I^cil  at?3um<ifcn,  aiit  in  PoiTciTioii 
jtifriMii:  .iiif)i((K,ivar  KiiiarifcKiliiwcrt  Ciip  aiiliiii<;ciiD  ; 

I.  J'ic  t«n  ic^  in  tcr  Stafcf  /  tiiiti  ric  ^rcl^ftu^^at  2i(tm  in  i(xo  ^rct^ftdt  /  fo((f)<  i)on  9lcff)tg' 
h'lMcii  fc<iicu  iii(t?tiiir.inicn  n\i(cii  lic  ^(tautf^^ialf)l■cm^l  20.  pciiii  imi(i)in\  von  ^n' 

.jcU.iaDab^ctciilliiifct'iC'i^rutHT jiUoiircUiicultlcifcii  tr^iicii,: .  i'la.t'fciii  ntihin  abcr  lepixlciuirt/ 
tap i^r  tic  J-OHUii'UT tppii »illc:i ?(utfi1)(:i  uiit  Mbcro  in nichKre GouMtcraiion  jit  jicdcn, 2c.  ^at <ix 
imtiii  ^nfanij  t«  6taCt  tici)  io^  {jintcrciiiiiiitcr  loon  Ktnccji'in^cni  ^om  M^<\U\bmif\ii\  Uifuu 


&c.     u.     II,      10.      9,     i.     7.     a,     s-     4.       h     '.     '. 

©«  torpdflrirf;  bcMita  hn  3>c(atramSlii§  /  a($  an  ttdttaii  tie  efa^t  ^Klcun  id  tic  ^aMcn 
atcr /foi.jciit(Jpi^ii!cr lint  ^rtiKviifcoif:  i.  *a(t)ivft  ett)tvan.  j.  S^icnitlu-riiiliCRivit).  j.  i'cji 
^^frtrrcr*' Jpaiip.  4.  ;?in(Jn^l.  5}ianii.  f.  eawct  .'lnti«.  6.  ZDill.  ^yciins  miMiicr  ^obn. 
7- ^\t  8.  Q^^idpfm.    9- X^ifvSoiicriirunttcroSlaulThaii^.    10.  X>ae20irtf'6» 

Nuejiimb(aii(n3(nifcr.  1 1.  ^anict;  ^(anpook.  u.  k.  eint  .iiitac  ^.'niKr  /■  tcvcn  iycndhni'- 
nmhunwmh.i  mtal]cmaiiti( ^:<Uuvm<  '  tnniict.'it]c(n<mitCy£trJt! ,  wormifiiiifcrcriici 
m  mi i  hnntm  ^wv  breir  nut  CKrhniirat  uih  ,  m  cnt  tqTcn  tonniit  ciiK  (9a|Tc  tann  mm iwcn» 
t(6 io)i,  aiiit) von  >((cii1;ni.vTi^a-  ^:&x<iu  nut  ^iii>uc.  5cnicr  eiiic aiitci c  «.iC : u!itVntrt(Tj  imrcr tnttcs 
m.  JlonnaitcmnacoantfKtesioptioriUi  jivci)/unt&intCii«inaiiit).Mii\n^J^.inrcrn<bi;n  cniAiitct/ 
gw(i5(i(t).infti<tuhiot!iivo(if  ^auk'tniit  ihrcn  bcboriirf'cn  ->pcffi].1tfcn  fiuuidjcn  ^cbaiKt  ircrtcn/ 
»(I(P<tO(t  allc  auffht  vStrdlfcn  au^^^c^cnju  Oiotfea-cntiij  ab<x  nn'iiT<ii  wir  inncrb^Kb  wmn 
gaiitcn(wota!iantci-|^foiitickipni(t)tivollcnticrlicrca  trcnJ^.^tut'cr/tasiil  autfictC'^a''fi(in.paiif/ 
jimuKrii.  3(t)  &abc  antf t.ie  l^oxUxc  nut  nnfcrni  jineitt  amm  cm  f iciiice  balb  unrcr  •  tint  haib 
obcr^aib tcr ^xUw rtiitf.jcvirt)tct  /  rtihUf  iwax  ntir  trciiTia  erfiub  ian.^  tint  funtfjcbn  btcit  /  KtoA  aii 
tie  ^^t(fclt(r  &icr  bc>)  luitio.iirtcn/  mwm  %\xm<n  bctcrbcr^cn  finite.  2lii  tae  0<l^Utranctt< 
y.ipic^5<nt^cnibcrtci'?t)ut^abci(1)^crrf)ncbcn  :  I'jrv.i  domus .  fed  amiciboni.s  procuidtc 
^";f ''tr 'J  ,?H<"''«8  2B.  *pcnii  lcf>tl)iii  i^cicfcn  /  iiiit  fitf)  .jcfaKcn  (aifcn.  Ubcr  6i^  m  \(f)  cincii 
MUcr,rtcbcntrtni!;cncf  laTitfbrcit/iiiif  janinfjujianj/ani  2cU'v-m^ 
111  nvt  ciiiciii  ^m-pm  tbiicnt.^  2lllc,trci)  *of  fnit  von  tc:;'^.^iinicn  .ui'Aubcit  tic  ut  n.^a'!liM:» 
M  \^/'^  !,"^^  '^'^ .»iitiamf(lHMii  5xoi-n  bci;,c:i ivcttc.  n -h,  (f ?  1!? ubcrniis bciltunrliiD imt fotl^ 
&;£niT  f.flrl u^,''l!!!-u'  "-'^''t^^ «^'/ f ^^'^^  '^-^'H-:'  tcrfvct,umtfciitcn  pfcitc ;  iliih  tint  6rfv,rcinc 

uifljt  b"at  ff<,  '       k  fi'±"i^'l"'^"'*''"'  ^"'"^  '''11K"I3  cniu-fiintcn ,  ivoniiifcr  tic 
niBTialftbmkfftttc/  tfr  nir  t=e  fff„,,  W  5.wn/  ta  irt)  ii>ni  iibcriinii  item  i!i.V. 

in  <Ju(1)  ;    mit  w^anc  Irco  hiSn  tap  v^r  nti.^  fo'itcrdilHT  WciAMaii'ut 


cr  'cp. 


^(  6  )^ 

i'wu^  a(fo  SorSrttJtni/fofmd  aWcxla^  Siitiauifitc  iiorn  in  tie  (Jrt</dn<n  ^tnfam  Auff  tu'<n  \c<y, 
2lcf<t  ( titilba  ciiK^albc  (Stunt  ntifit  vcii  f)i(fi.}«  (itaM  cmfaiit fcmi itatcn )  junuc^cn  <  taniit 
5ti^fjuiiD€(tn:cmb«lT(r^Alt(ii,flU£ti|o  telle  mcttStiuvtcci'AUCii/uiit  team  2?c(^ui>iciiteuiarinit 
antjant^c^ciiniogc. 

lap  2B.  ^cnn  ftc  niitt  gem  bcrfanim  an  cmdu  firilct  tjcbiii  vtoltc ,  auf  tag  tiirt^t  fo  ^at  ^rciTc  g^iiij  jtji 
iant^tunCkalwiibiubeii  .ftud)  iii(t)t  am  Zximtauc  Jiap  tifrdbilutjeiuiic?  ten  anC<ni  uuff^c* 
iicmnxH trorttn.  ^cKuncrt)  imrfitfm  itf) i^nu juni  ^frcrn fo itel mfml^ats  I'd)! il^ta* feri}c'?eli«  taf 
<Stingtmbunrerctt(utf((;ai??adi;fcminliiivjf(f)a|f(K(ttFt-iuticirltw/  roedruiitaticSiijiPctaiiijC' 
fJctff jutratKU/jiimalcuiB.Sutlr tcnm  gciniZD.'Pcnne^antttici^oi  coiiinuinicirt  m 

trcidtjcmi^r unfair {Rarioncin antcrs v<ri>ro(l6<n'jc.  ^at^rmitUijfiKfc cmcn2Darrantcrt()e(ir  un-- 
f(rMnCbciMflnmunjuf:flb(iv'tt^cf<r!imrbiiincn3abr{i5tifllKiiri^Samili<nauifCin'untfj({imf(m'. 
jenl)  2lct(r6  ilciUn  troUcn,  ncmlift)  tr<u  2cir  m'hire',  Kitten  ^c^cn-paiipijaimngcii,  itcrju  tic  tre^  ti<  iu 
rcit6f)icrfint,ju«(fcncn.(3nifaUab<tii!tlutKiflrtii5aniilicii  MriHfrni(tfAcf'ai[(Hr(t;n,ta3iant4a 
dncmvSti'icf  jU9<b<n.)  3if)m<nK6ttcnig<nDrt«njDlt«trDlttniif(fen  /  tap  trir  cine  fcnaute  Hm 
^Jrctinf}  <r&alt<n  unt  uns alfo von  allcr  UnKrtnictmig ifo  Itflo  mcbi  borfckn  utf d)f<n.^&iif( nnn  m 
md) eincr in  fitfiKlbilfrct trcttcn / umb anf)«ro ju f omnKnTc ti<i 5aniiii<n  initiubringcn, iriictc (un 
fiiun belies unr«ra«irf)li(tKfavtatur(t)b(rcrlm;g<l!alifam(^t2B. 'Pcnn  ailcfjsgdlcrn  ju  niitfajtt/ 
lag»^r<iid)iiiti<f(nua[ItoralUn CEntjiintm  tieawarcfjcntcrgefaum  abcrnc(t)ni(tf  ()i« 
tci inrco;  uMt  .uwijTe  ^ytivic^^ia  in iiuKtni  i}i<iicn  Sraiictcntaiit  ( To  \iam\u  (ft  tic  un&  b<ilin'i«  iaiiN 
frfjafFt)  cit^cilcnvtoitc  SMlt^cudtabcr  jii  fjarrrDtitlSamiltcninroniKicr  ^<it  jutransportircn/ 
tfhx(  nuince!  unniapr<(i(i(f)(n  lartor^altcn^  gut/taf  tie  5r<unt  ten  <iii  raar  fatifcnt  Mrt^ 

ten  cult)  anncfjimn  /uut  ctii(tcn.t:au(rbaliuugcntonihrcn  gcfcgncfcn  Ilbctflu^  anbabMtn limit 
ja»i<fuJiff)C6entaufentit*cr£!un^cftcnnt  untfontetja-iilitcnfaUcntt  SiujluU'c  ?iari'baurii  unj'im 
f omnun  mbc^m  ■>  jumaicn  (Jt  tic  nirt}t  ailiuurr  ton  hicfijcr  6tatt  gcbcii  tr n  ncmbiirf'  an  Icni Sccil. 
fi!l/obCTbalb't(?5all6  trorclbft(ftrcib|T(iii-pau^;Ubau£U/unt  <in<fic(i!t-»>crnltiafii!(t)fciftotfi(> 
flniucrtnen gctuinct.  2>aSlant  niirtjiltcmSliipitliicnilitObcrgict'f ,  u!iliuni!lG<iiibaiim(f*fttrt'C» 
flucm ;  emwarte  abet cben iint  ♦rurt^tbar  taf  frtitinuiifK  \fi  cap  man  mit  fcincm  erfntr  ( amfctann 
ti  ticl  gcrcgnct  /  unt  gtci(titol  nirtt  obnc  ©cfabt )  ilbcr  Icn  Sail  unt  euinfliptcn  ai'Aijun  fun/.Y. 
2)icwcilcn  irti  nun  ni(6( ttriiTcii  f untc  tras  if>r  tififail?  ju  rbun  cntiftl  ciTcn  mbctut  unt  i  c(f)  i)\<m  ]<f)t 
fid gclcgcn ;  au(^ lUcrticK offtcntc^ntc fum^jcijcn raufci.t ^ictctf  bep z^-'Tmiil cteii.  iicniblitr^Ktc 
ftuntcrt  ilctcr?  f.SrtiiK.  hicfiecriantfbcjabiuiigabjumciTcn  foi'tcn  ,  trclrfjcs  ®c(t  idj  afccrniiptm 
Jpantcn /mug  i(b  cf!  bi^  aufcrbaltcnc  cure  OUrolurion/inflctcn  laiTcn.uui  tic  ^rf'tanctcn  cincf^mcu* 
<ii ©ctcUmatttigtcn ni(f}t  ju i'ibfrfrf)tcitcn.    £)am!t irf) abcr tic .unMrfcDrcn Samificn  aiif i^rc mi> 
^untcrt 71(f<r£!  amrcifcn  nu'£f)(c  bab  irimcbcnn  tc:t  Grcfcitcrn  ( vcHix arfu jctscn  lanfcnt  .>'fauiff jir.J  : 
flUiiajtPcnN  ni(l)t anctiicmcirut criangcn fcnnca )  fcrf^^faufcnt ?l(fcr^  ju  finer Icitnif it  mmj'  i 
iiommcn/wcranfiettcj!  taufcnt  /  unt  ttittrcrtaut'cnt  babcn.   3>icre*5rart[cgfc  ii  tcn?^.rftop. 
on  /  unl  ncnnte  fie  (Scmiantown ;  €ie  ;i<?t  i;ur  i.  Ubr  .'cbens  ten  bier '  antf  mirf'tbaren  Seren/  iino 
an annuitbigen ^^tunnoueUen  / ttt^tr on ut obcn gcmcitct.  X)k\tf  niu|1c nt tarumb tbun irtmniJ. 
<rcnnnicmantenfeine>portionabrorrtrrlirtiaebcitHH  rontcinmrilTcnaliein  Jctvnibiporer  CMrmi 
bcpiamm  »o^nen;mit)  ticfegni(t)tron&<t^heb!i('..e  Ihfatteit/ \rctu;itcrtie  tornebniifc,  taN^^^^ 
weig  tie  iRintctiure(t)U(enaeNI(<n/imtbxitfiVui(fcer  junMUtenuntem^ereii/ 3J^^^ 
flnterlieb--urtbnifreicf)cJf>antbicun/untmit«efamnuen23^unt  tn  cffentli(t>en  Suianineiiw^^^ 
eottesOiVeloben  preifenunSer^bcnrtnnen.    nb.  soja.jt  ihrtcrowc.jcntcn^amilien/iKicnng 
hWtigan|)croiibabrin9t/tt>olnur5unt<rt2(rfcrgjueignen/  inittannoit  falfcben  fo  ticiiirtpflcpi 

"^^'"SeTnt  Jbauf  batmna  befreffen^  /  mu<  id)  fotrtc  gem  miffgtubottfff  f*  «>>ri.tren/ ^^^^^^ 
^acobSicSer  tnit  teraltee**tei^erfeartien(i(t)  /  binac^en  m<n  ^*  ^''„'^"'5>^i^ 
iante?a£n./fonterli(tt.eOTagt  /  it^ 

fcaiiAi^rietuurbalten  ;U<'^C'>utttnfentrcrte;reeaenKnemit  ibreni.^mtcrn mO)t^^^e^^^ 
fen/o6?Eena.MnaiJannbringenfan.   3<tm(angefeer/io.Nl  mogluJ_ciu.p  *^  u^^^ 
fiiibnoTu ttieae  1  tetet  i(t  mebr tertrauen  toinie  ali id}  leiter !  nun "<<*' f^"'  ^  Jn;^^/mienK< 


iMar 
arrflct 
jiir i)?aitKii()t tt<il<it/t)»i^ A'm'^ iov  ^ii jfofjii ic^r l\'rn,ujcrt I  mint  n'o<x tk .Hon rajlirf)  nichr  nif^t/ 

({11.  NB  lillca ^a.itirercterii ii{a;i Beittifa'Prctp vicfc^t /  aui^  miip a;tt>cii ^Hiiuifnuiiiis;  uMai'cii 
iiurrU  JOclffte  jcirO'i.'<;""?frt'(it ;  Ob  jirar  rciniutbiutj  mir  ticfci  no.t)  in  ?.  eta  4.  !ja^iciutc;u.3 
(biofitjumArf)M  it'ictic'Sonct^UiattraiiMWrtftr  trirC;  iiav.n  i.  bxuuit  )ctcri'^cufcni!ii:iimoric( 
»)0;»5lldl)«iui  :t0CMtbt(t!aift m(rfu1;/lap«frci!;ige3'if'nii(t>f?tetartf.  i.  :ijti aU.'^ict  fchrwc.u^ 
0ett)'WUwo(^ic2ieJtcr6e^^Jr!'.(l(^b(t)tie«lI ^o^<lTo iiroifcr ;  S5cu  16. OTovcmb.warJtif'tniartf in 
uiif«m'PMf''MpH/t'*ii'^^''^c*'^i''i'f'|'P<''''''P^'i  '^Stcrt.ioicte.  5.  S^m  nuu  mil?  5ic»'(nUaiia 
iiO(^f(iii«^<:toiir-0''itcrimc6«r^Sii!3clIan^iJiipn  rcii/jc.  2B.'P<.m  intoitirtWflr-OauiHpitlirbttC 
SDfbaCi)  unb  ten  "ZBdnwflf^ti  jii  etablircii;  v£if)ict"cfUii^lcro^a(bcn  niitfulicrcrGJciCvjcii&citijutc 

I  2Saiireb{ii/w<ilant«ro5ortrommii,igiii(^tjii3tr(iff<:ln.  3r<mal(a•^aI!^5el^)mt@nnen»€fla- 
nwi  fon5«lid)iiiiKiuiiit'-^iiffii;:c.  Mib  nb.  <tM)(  tjrcffe  ctKriie  il'cdj^afcu/  uiit  iiKtuantcr  tic* 
(f<ut)e  ^clffl .  3tci«/  f men  dfcrncji  i^fcll  i  wci:(n  &er  !2Biiitcr  al!iji«  iiidilcn?  fo  fait  iils" &<i^  ciiit  /  iiiit> 
JtaauftcnDJottwiiibtoidungeftumnKr.  3tcm/(t(id)c53(ttt{(f<ii/  ct(r??iatcraiicu/maiTeini1inii1,u 
mc^tniitmirgenomiiKn  /  alt  t(t)(bciiiponnct()enftatt<  /  imtirtlHitciKiiKnyviicrtHmcbrbcrotumcn. 

.  SBoit i^t <nim au(t) dntij« @tU(£S5ar(^ct/UiiD Clfrabnlct.  IdiKii  2ii(t  an^ero  Riitai /  fan  cs nut  ju-- 
tmi2)ott^dl»ctfauffrh)«tien/Jc. 

Sin  lodgerbct  imkin  ^rtnt)W«cf  niit  arclfijm  9?ii^en  anffliigdi  /  uMiTeu  wiv  f)!cr  ml  in  ten 

flU«bdteMdnMrtt(S(^iK/K.  alldn  mii!!e  diiiifwiieapitatbrtrjiKmrioiirtnrcrtciu  t-a  tmui  it» 
(^crd'dj  ro((ter  rtu^^dfreuteScltfainc  in  hir(<er3dt due  rct^e  ^f  rate  I'ernrMilKn  wurtc ,  re  ju  ^ucrm 
Kiferii 9?(i(^fencfenf)dmf!eae.  S>ic jwet) n6t(>i3tJ<Sn1rffint»/ 1. fluf tie hm'ch in  bw'uMx ^tatt bcqiie-- 
UKJpauietjubmien/»el(^et^euer»>er&euert/inib)5hr((flt»u.proioo.r6Hncn.^-n''Oiinciiircrtcii.  2.ei'^ 
~-nt3tt^rtbreHnerf5 mulimiwomuus:S.^tn:imintii(f)twn  f[ai] ni -?cbeiu\r'Vrc(f)cn,  tann fo 
Irtiuj trirfeiiie©feinbacfen,i|!iin|crSflufijnt]iiur66lBern.  Jiiitcre^anltvcrctjleut moaen  \mi) >tot 
<tli|e3rt^riurilcf&(etben/K.JC. 

^upie4.Sra3Cii3ebirf)Jiefeepii5penttore:(iKWor(.'  i.'!B.g>eiin^af  einenf^meii  ®rnnt  ^t  ei< 
Mtttewfettwen  Diestemnj  gdegt/uiitrubiicirt boii  3dt ju  3df  nif^[t(t)e  @eah;.  1.  -^ Alt  cr  nrt(l)tb>U'^ 
W&eSreuncwaftmif  oUen an<3rA:i(5eii6eii®o»berneiirn;  fjoift  and}  I  tic  mit  ^allimor  cbfrfnrcbcate 
etmti3ftifiouee()fteiwbur(^eine5i6iii3t.eeiuenijflbi]Cfeaiuiiitauf^ebob(iiwevten;  5.  ^Bnt^^c- 
M^term  <peitns»oii  allim  Soltf  fcbr  gelicbtunb  .jelcbt  /  ^etlattfatit  mid)  tie  alten  lailerbAftcn  ^m-- 
?fll!"^^i^x''^"I"i'"'!)/^''^f'^^f>^^^'rt'«"»^«i|'«l'  '^Wnun iio(t)iiienwln  .^eiehcn  babcii.  ;irtj wag 
naftbriltflute  unfc  fcurf^btn^eiibe  oeufjtr  fanlte  tiefer  (iebeS^ann  ten  errten  Ja^Uieiee  wieter  jn^e> 
ttm(n<n9^eueii3a&rltnbie^.-bobeuntwtem?6ronunKrf:^^ 
'  i>S«fl^'^?^'^*^l'v '''^ W!°  ""^''^'^ '"  ^'<*''^'"  ""l«'>  ^P^i!a^!r5ia  an jiitrcffen ,  ais  ^r  feines 
'  7«?.!^1W?? ""!>'*««" »ffSrtemn.j a'e  e;a  ijetreiier ianteg' -- IMtux txciumn  bamMxt  iff- 
tJ.n*^iK  f^i.  "  ^«<^5^'i"'r  "11  wrtier^eecnten  etitag  weni^eS  aiujefili^ret ,  verniintern  aii^tcr 
M9iiM«beiKth(^e  1 00.  cg^(i(  wcirer  in  tag  Jant  ein  K. 

flufifmwKnl^/ft*^  '  '^''  •'t'liiitreinerunuerfe/^rtcr  CcnKiciii^  cii-emuiit  anfcni 

S?rMei  S2  i^  'i^  ^'^^V^^  transportireii  ?  3(1,^  antwcttemit .^uteni  iVcrberartu  tap  ut  mnir 
S?/&|aSffia^f'"^^^^^  Setcft  /  tavern ihr  ..)>i(t)t  ^.c.H^x 

<()<nl(r/»e(tcbeMug?eSrC!  rrf,!f c^^^       "''-^'^ Kfit^utartne  i^untren  laiDt  jii  bart  ic  .ubcr le 

,«ribU>«?<)rttbewKftSri,.h^^^^^^^^  /  Mc  ju  eii(t)tra<?entciiebaiipri;:cte:ifo:;rc. 

QiuoiirtpMg^rtnnetiKbcflutrte^ureactiuipifei;  co  Mtlt  1111* mm  ;ii. 

I'annnei] 


iit(tnuiri?i.Vttcr,roiitcniS'rH(titbviiii]cii;  jurufticnBcit  ■  5n'l(t)tc  t«  ^^iiP-  Stuilitc  tee  ,5ti(t(nd/ 
5r^l(1nctcr(Scre(tti^fat!  A5aimwa6t)iltfr8ciiKiifcl(t)<iiuiim^[}ca  SSaiim  /  0br(luMit<r05anncrKiiKt 
iicrf)  cfiut)(3<"'r  fcrfdioiKt.tenrdbtn  iiitt  a'ilcm5Ui^unibi}r5bt/uiitbeati>dt<t/  toit)  c.itiict)  autfnktt 
nfcl.u'v.t^  i^ciTcniii^  aiif bauct  /  mt  in  Cfcii  wirift.  l^et^icbt  iu;c licfc  (SKiitiii^  /  li<bwcrtbe  5«iiii6 ; 
tvir  ciiifiw  allbia-  ta^urt)  mit  t<n^l(i(tcii  u,;fni(t)tbarcii  ^iV.imeii  uiub  batten  fu  iii<t « /  u.X  brauttm 
t«  t-cr  t?r(pnbptfi.  *^p  ill  m  wliwi  (\u<  4utl.icv;^!.\t llianiuna  /  tic  mrtu  fibaldi  tan.  jiV  bc'ebKciiij 
fAnuHiu1iv35ttiii^crinflui.nz  ,ebnctrctrt).:;iii.crc5ruaitbatfcitiuitcUfonniuai  X:i«rJ?^rr  /  Cttloi 
2CcUcn  g<i3(b(n  6flf  ■  ■i,iH  aiut' caf  X'uiibrirtijcn  1 2lmcti. 

Jp'/vliCr.  fcrit(  iiV  cui  Sluftcr  Kr  nll&icr  c^cbrSu(tii(t<n3nti(inif(tf  n  COlitn^/trt  6  .ton  leii  wtijfw/ 
itnt ;.  boii  btn  fi^ivarficn  tiucn  ^iii^lifrticn  'Smbm  mam\  •  UIl^  wcllcn  nun  i5cta(I)tc  ^nimt 
ni(tjtjmc^trcr€Uber^clfb(tfatifl'<ii  foll^crneiuii^ull^«LlcinlllitihlCl2J;unHbcirttlt  K^n/»ci((iifi{ 
irciiUntbeiifbifWcidiitimitfircii  uutaiirf)  ()unfirt2)i<i,»tciur«iifrf)>rar[e(injt(t!eittrclkn;5>aB 
fiOU'b(nin<incniro;(l)cn:ib«jiaubcn/trtp<bc«rofcicl3nliauct).ibtli(t)t^<:b^aiiuiT(:n/rt'itie(/»i»ni« 
Ii(fctfiivcv^T«rtiibcrorciiiir,cn,K.  ,  ^  -^  . 

S>i(K^  nun  bab id) iii  uctift.ircn  /  mdutf  cbdc^fnten  e<t)ii!t^f<iUii fct?" <mKiT«n  /  alsmifttrt 
niciilf  ecr.ura.u'  \?etr<»frfuiircii  ju  trcrrcu'  Mo:  inir  fo tt>ol'23.  >3Pcnn ,  uiiJ  antcre  teClirfic  ieuf/ 
flleiiiuin  (i^ni (bciviiT<n  reci(})cei itt  nicbr, ale  taufentcn  '^(ciit  rrt>5(i<  cm  nrcpiochable  ^^oi^ii Mcbat 
fantagcemirjicnilKltfftivfvralk  inMeicmfoilbJrcn ( ai.bcp AoiMcercn  ) iaut id »i<l  iliiwiinJ 
IfbcbiUrcniufcncrk^ni  /  ti^nnt  ibr  Kiiluriiiii  ciartncn  ^  2lll{i.;tae:^crtraucniuuiiram 
Srttta  ubcnvintct  flU<^,    Wn'nTct  aUc  ai.tctcaJcf aatmi  von  luir  ()cr(jli(t). 


3d}  pertlcihc  ailejcit  «uer  trcti  f  un9  bknilbtHSnf 
bi0fter 


n.Kl' 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  345 

And  further,  2675  acres  belong  to  the  first  Crefeld  Purchasers,  viz., 

To  Jacob  Tellner 989  acres 

To  Jan  Strepers  275  acres 

To  Dirck  Sipman 588  acres 

To  Govert  Remkins  161  acres 

To  Lenert  Arets 501  acres 

To  Jacob  Isaacs   161  acres 

2675  acres 

Further,  200  acres  belong  to  Frantz  Daniel  Pastorius. 
And  finally  150  acres  to  Gorg  Hartzfelder. 

In  all  5700  acres. 
Of  the  above  mentioned  5700  acres  of  land,  there  are 

In  Germantown    2750  acres 

In  Krissheim    884  acres 

In  Sommerhausen    900  acres 

In  Crefeld  1 166  acres 

Then,  after  the  2750  acres  or  55  city  hereditary  holdings  in 
Germantown  had  been  laid  out  and  surveyed  on  the  29th  of  Decem- 
ber, 1687,  and  following"  days,  the  purchasers  and  hereditary  lessees, 
to  whom  the  remaining  2950  acres  in  the  Germantownship  belong, 
distributed  the  same  by  lot  on  the  4th  of  April,  1689,  into  the  said 
three  separate  villages,  the  northernmost  of  which,  adjoining  Ger- 
mantown, was  called  Krissheim,  the  middle  one  Sommerhausen, 
and  the  furthermost  Crefeld,  as  sufficiently  appears  from  what  is 
subjoined  below : 

To-day,  the  4th  day  of  the  second  month,  anno  1689,  those  who 
still  have  land  to  take  up  in  the  Germantownship  have  drawn  lots 
for  the  remaining  2950  acres  and  Peter  Keurlis,  Jan  Liicken  for 
his  half,  Abraham  Tunnes,  Gerhard  Heinrichs,  Peter  Schumacher, 
Hanns  Peter  Umstatt,  Heinrich  Sellen.  Willjam  Strepers  for  100 
acres,  Johannes  Bleickers,  Jacob  Schumacher  for  50  acres,  Jacob 
Tellner,  Kornelis  Sjoert,  Andrew  Griskum,  and  Abraham  op  de 
GraeflF  for  25  acres,  have  received  the  first  next  portion  to  German- 
town  as  their  lots  and  respective  shares.  Secondly,  the  Frankfurt 
Company  has  obtained  by  lot  in  addition  to  what  it  received  in  the 
furthest  division,  together  with  Frantz  Daniel  Pastorius  for  his  own 
200  acres   the   middle  portion.     Thirdly,   Tunes   Kunders,   Govert 


NB. — An  interesting  point  in  this  document  is  the  fact  that  the  German 
Company  (or  Frankfurt  Company)  is  called  by  those  in  Frankfurt  the  "Penn- 
sylvanian  Company"    ("Pennsilvanische  Compagnie"). 


346  Francis  Daniel  Pastofius 

Remkins,  Lenert  Arets,  Reinert  Tisen,  Jan  Lucken  for  his  second 
half,  Cornelis  Bom,  Jan  Strepers,  Dirk  op  de  Graeff,  Herman  op  de 
Graeff,  Abraham  op  de  Graeff  for  his  remainder,  Jacob  Isaacs,  the 
Frankfurt  Company  for  287^^  acres,  Jacob  Schumacher  for  25 
acres  and  Willjam  Strepers  for  50  acres  received  by  lot  the  last  or 
furthest  portion.  That  the  foregoing  drawing  of  lots  took  place 
openly  and  honestly,  without  deception  or  fraud,  in  the  aforemen- 
tioned manner,  we,  the  undersigned  bear  witness,  with  this  sub- 
scription in  our  own  hand.  Done  in  Germantown  the  4th  of  the  2nd 
month,  1689. 

Frantz  Daniel  Pastorius  for  himself  and  the  Frankfurt  Com- 
pany. Jacob  Telner.  Cornelis  Sioerts.  Jacob  Schumacher.  Abra- 
ham op  de  Graeff.  Hanns  Peter  Umbstatt.  Hendrich  Sellen.  Her- 
man op  den  Graaf.    Jacob  Isaacs. 

Anno  1690,  the  14th  of  the  nth  month  (January)  the  lines  or 
boundaries  were  made  through  the  said  villages  as  is  indicated  in 
the  preface  of  this  book." 

The  Reorganization  of  the  German  Company. 

The  agreement  or  promise  of  the  German  Company  or  So- 
ciety to  follow  Pastorius,  their  agent,  to  America  was  not  kept, 
and  Pastorius  evidently  began  to  feel  uneasy  about  the  financial 
obligations  which  he  had  assumed  as  agent  of  the  Society.  There 
is  an  intimation  of  this  uneasiness,  or  of  his  unwillingness  to  de- 
cide upon  questions  of  policy  in  his  report  of  March  7th,  1684. 
Accordngly,  he  wrote  a  letter  on  the  14th  of  November,  1685,  to 
Schutz,  van  de  Walle.  Behagel  and  Petersen,  asking  to  be  re- 
leased from  the  responsibility  of  accounting  to  their  constituents 
and  heirs.  Although  the  original  letter  seems  to  have  been  lost, 
we  have  the  content  of  it  and  the  replies  to  it  preserved  in  Eng- 
lish, a  manuscript  in  Pastorius'  own  hand,  which  we  give  here: 

"The  14th  day  of  November  1685  J  did  write  to  Jacob  van  de 
Wallen,  John  Jacob  Schutz,  Daniel  Behagel  &  Wm  Petersen,  that 
in  case  they  would  not  free  me  of  my  Promise  in  their  Letter  of 
Attorney,  viz,  to  be  accountable  to  the  Constituents  &  their  heirs, 
J  was  not  at  all  able  nor  willing  so  to  do,  but  must  lay  down  mine 
Administration ;  for  as  much  as  they  in  like  manner  promised  me, 
to  follow  me  to  this  Province  the  next  ensuing  year  after  my  de- 
parture out  of  Germany,  the  which  was  not  perform'd  by  them: 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  347 

Wherefore  J  expect  an  Answer  from  them  all,  whether  they  would 
release  unto  me  the  sd  mine  Obligation  or  not? 

Whereupon  they  in  One  Letter  Subscribed  by  them  all  an- 
swered as  followeth. 

Francfort  the  20/30.  of  June  1686. 

Dear  Brother  —  We  thank  God  for  thy  Joyful  Recovery  and 
Preservation  of  all  the  rest;  Putting  in  so  much  no  Mistrust  at  all 
in  thy  Fidelity  &  Diligence,  that  we,  especially  J  for  mine  own  per- 
son do  approve  thine  accounts  unseen :  Nevertheless  in  case  Jt  is 
not  against  thee,  only  for  a  nearer  Advice  sake  to  send  such  ac- 
counts over  (  :  at  least  to  make  no  ill  Precedent  to  any  future  Suc- 
cessor, whom  perhaps  we  dare  not  so  fully  trust  without  all  Care :  ) 
Jt  will  be  very  pleasing  to  &  not  against  us  to  approve  them  in 
optima  forma. 

J.  J.  Schutz. 

Jn  the  same  Letter  it  followeth  thus : 

My  heartily  beloved  Friend  &  Dear  Brother.  To  all  that  which 
our  beloved  Schutz  hath  written  we  assent  in  all  parts  without  any 
exception,  and  our  beloved  Behagel  will  doubtless  do  the  same  by 
some  lines ;  And  J  do  the  same  likewise  in  the  name  of  John  Wil- 
liam Petersen  &  his  wife. 

Ja:  v:  Wallen. 

Further  in  the  same  Letter  thus: 

My  dear  &  beloved  Friend.  How  greatly  we  longed  for  your 
Letter,  you  may  easily  think,  because  since  your  former  from  ul- 
timo May  &  i8th  of  June  we  had  nothing  written  by  you  but  the 
aforementioned  from  the  14th  of  Novemb.  which  we  received  the 
19th  of  June,  and  is  fully  answered  by  Friend  Schutz,  whereby  you 
may  see,  that  we  do  not  only  approve  of  what  you  have  done,  but 
request  you  to  Continue  and  not  faint,  or  let  sink  the  Courage  to  the 
hurt  of  us  all  and  of  the  whole  business. 

Daniel  Behagel." 

The  result  of  this  correspondence  was  the  formal  organiza- 
tion or  reorganization  of  the  German  Company  or  Society,  re- 
ferred to  by  Pastorius  in  the  Grund-  und  Lager-Buch  as  the 
Frankfort  Company.  The  instrument,  agreement  or  contract  of 
this  new  corporation  was  printed  in  German  in  Frankfurt-on-the- 
Main.  Three  copies  of  it  are  known  to  have  been  in  existence 
in  Philadelphia :  one  originally  among  Penn's  papers,  but  now  in 
possession  of  Ex-Governor  Samuel  W.  Pennypacker,  at  Penny- 
packer's  Mills;  the  other  at  the  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylva- 


348  Francis  Daniel  Pasiofius 

nia.  and  the  third,  evidently  Pastoriiis'  own  copy,  as  it  is  the  only 
one  having  his  signature,  originally  found  among  the  Proud 
papers.  In  addition  to  the  printed  German  text  there  is  extant 
an  English  translation  in  Pastorius'  hand  among  the  Pastorius 
MSS.  in  the  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania.^* 

The  reorganization  of  the  German  Company  seems  to  have 
had  little  effect  upon  the  affairs  of  the  company  in  Pennsylvania, 
if  we  may  judge  from  the  entries  in  the  Gnmd-und  Lager-Buch, 
which  doubtless  is  a  faithful  record  of  the  transactions  of  the 
company  under  the  direction  of  Pastorius,  who  against  his  will 
continued  as  agent  of  the  company  after  the  reorganization  until 
the  year  1700. 

Release  of  Pastorius  as  Agent  of  the  German  Society. 

Meanwhile,  a  number  of  the  original  members  of  the  com- 
pany had  died,  and  some  of  the  survivors,  apparently  dissatisfied 
with  the  state  of  their  affairs  in  Pennsylvania,  concluded  to  re- 
lieve Pastorius  of  the  agency,  and  agreed  to  issue  a  letter  of  at- 
torney to  Daniel  Falkner,  Johannes  Kelpius,  both  in  Pennsyl- 
vania, and  Johannes  Jawert,  son  of  Balthasar  Jawert,  of  Liibeck, 
one  of  the  principals  of  the  company. 

The  reasons  for  this  Letter  of  Attorney  are  quite  fully  set 
forth  in  the  document  itself  in  the  following  passage  in  Pastorius' 
translation : 

"And  yet,  because  of  the  death  of  some  heads  of  the  sd  Com- 
pany, &  the  between  Jrruption  of  the  French  War,  as  also  chiefly 
because  of  the  absence  of  the  Governour,  &  the  unableness  of  the 
sd  Our  Factor,  these  Our  affairs  in  the  sd  Province  are  come  to  a 
Stop,  the  more  mentioned  Mr.  Pastorius  having  also  desired  by  &  in 
several  of  his  Letters  to  be  discharged  of  his  Administration  &c." 

There  were  apparently  other  reasons  for  this  transfer  of  the 
agency  of  the  company  to  these  new  hands.  First,  because  of 
the  interest  which  Jawert  had  in  the  company,  and  the  fact  that 


**The  original,  dated  Nov.  12,  1868,  will  be  reporduced  photographically. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  349 

he  himself  was  emigrating  to  America  and  could  look  after  af- 
fairs; secondly,  because  Falkner  was  on  friendly  relations  with 
some  of  the  company,  as  appears  from  the  fact  that  he  is  men- 
tioned in  the  deed  of  gift  of  Catharine  Elizabeth  Schiitz  as  one 
of  the  beneficiaries.  Just  what  reason  there  was  for  appointing 
Kelpius,  the  dreamy  hermit  of  the  Wissahickon,  is  not  apparent, 
unless  it  was  because  of  the  religious  sympathy  existing  between 
him  and  Johann  Wilhelm  Petersen. 

The  reference  in  the  document  to  the  inability  ("unable- 
ness")  of  Pastorius  to  continue  as  agent,  and  the  fact  that  the 
affairs  of  the  company  had  "come  to  a  Stop"  is  not  necessarily  to 
be  construed  as  indicating  any  incapacity  or  laxness  on  the  part 
of  Pastorius,  but  is  easily  explained  by  the  fact  that  during  the 
years  1698  to  1700  or  1701  he  was  engaged  in  teaching  school  in 
Philadelphia,  and  for  this  reason  could  not  give  his  undivided  at- 
tention to  the  affairs  of  the  company. 

The  translation  of  this  letter  of  attorney  in  Pastorius'  quaint 
English  and  in  his  own  hand  is  still  extant,  and  is  printed  here  in 
full: 

We  subscribed  do  manifest  &  confess  herewith,  Whereas 
we  Joiningly  have  bought  five  &  twenty  thousand  acres  of 
unseparated  land  in  Pennsilvania,  according  to  the  documents 
&  Jndentures  thereof,  with  peculiar  Priviledges  &  Rights,  And 
therefore  in  Vertue  thereof  the  12th  of  November  1686.  by  a 
peculiar  Writing  haveing  formed  a  Society,  &  for  the  Cultivation  & 
Administration  of  the  sd  land  have  Jmpowred  Mr.  Francis  Daniel 
Pastorius.  J.  U.  L.  according  to  the  Letter  of  attorney  bearing 
Date  the  12th  of  April  1683.  And  yet  because  of  the  death  of  some 
heads  of  the  sd  Company,  &  the  between  Jrruption  of  the  French 
War,  as  also  chiefly  because  of  the  absence  of  the  Governour,  & 
the  unableness  of  the  sd  Our  Factor,  these  Our  affairs  in  the  sd 
Province  are  come  to  a  Stop,  the  more  mentioned  Mr.  Pastorius 
having  also  desired  by  &  in  several  of  his  Letters  to  be  discharged 
of  his  Administration ;  That  we  for  such  end  do  conferr  full  Power 
&  special  Authority  on  Mr.  Daniel  Falkner  &  Johanes  Kelpius  as 
Jnhabitants  for  the  present  in  Pensilvania,  and  also  on  Mr.  Jo- 
hanes Jawert  the  son  of  one  of  our  Principals,  nominally  Mr.  Bal- 
thasar  Jawert  of  Lubeck,  who  hath  resolved  to  transport  himself 
thither,  thus  and  in  such  wise  that  these  Our  three  Plenipotentiaries 


350  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

Joiningly  or  in  Case  of  death  of  one  or  the  Other,  they  or  he  who 
remains,  shall  have  in  the  best  form  the  Administration  of  all  our 
goods  we  have  there  of  the  lands  in  the  form  &  where  they  are 
Joiningly  or  separately  assigned  unto  us,  or  shall  be  assigned,  sur- 
veyed &  set  out,  and  of  the  City-Lots  by  reason  of  the  five  &  twenty 
thousand  acres  being  Competent  to  us,  viz.  the  4  or  6  Places  in  the 
City  of  Philadelphia,  and  of  the  300.  Acres  situated  in  the  Right 
&  Liberty  of  the  City  before  &  about  Philadelphia,  And  of  the  land 
bought  by  the  Scullkill  for  a  Brick-kiln  And  of  all  &  every  erected 
Building  &  other  Meliorations,  and  of  what  hath  been  sent  thither, 
or  bought  there,  or  otherwise  got  of  Victuals,  Comodities,  Cattels, 
household-stufif,  tools,  Servants,  Tenants  &  of  other  Persons,  &c  and 
therefore  to  call  to  an  account  in  Our  Name  the  sd  Mr.  Pastorius, 
who  hitherto  hath  been  our  Plenipotentiary,  and  to  take  of  him 
herewith  all  such  Our  Estates  &  effects,  and  in  Case  any  of  them 
should  be  alienated  without  our  knowledge,  above  all  things  to 
vindicate  them ;  So  then  in  general  or  special,  as  it  can  be  done  best, 
to  dispose,  exchange,  sell  &  receive  the  money  for  them,  and  here- 
upon to  quit,  transact,  make  Jndentures  &  Documents,  Assurances, 
&  in  Suma  to  do  &  leave  every  thing  what  we  Ourselves  could  or 
might  do  or  leave,  if  we  were  then  &  there  personally  present.  Cum 
potestate  Substituendi,  et  Substitutionem  toties  quoties  revocandi, 
cumq  Clausulis  rati,  grati.  omnibusq'  alijs  illius  loci  &  fori  neces- 
sarijs  et  Consuetis.  And  in  Case  our  aforementioned  Plenipoten- 
tiaries should  want  Any  larger  Pozver  then  herein  is  Contained,  the 
same  we  advisedly  do  grant  herewith  unto  them,  &  do  decently  Jm- 
plore  the  Governour  in  Chief  and  Magistrates  of  the  sd  Province,  to 
regard  them  as  such,  and  to  grant  them  upon  their  request  their 
Magisterial  aid,  in  Case  they  should  want  the  same ;  On  the  other 
hand  Our  Plenipotentiaries  Joinedly  &  Separately  are  directed  to 
the  two  Principals  in  Francfort  on  the  river  of  Main,  vizt.  the  heirs 
of  Jacob  van  de  Walle  &  Daniel  Behagel  both  deceased,  to  acquaint 
&  give  an  account  unto  them  timely  of  every  one  of  their  trans- 
actions, and  to  address  unto  them  Moneys  or  Comodities,  to  Corre- 
spond within  and  to  expect,  if  need,  further  Orders  &  Jnstructions 
of  them  in  the  name  of  the  whole  Company,  wherewith  they  shall 
further  in  this  Case  Communicate  and  get  their  Consent.  Lastly 
we  grant  unto  them  herewith  special  Power  to  appropriate  fifty 
Acres  of  Our  land  in  Germantown  for  the  benefit  of  a  Schoolmaster, 
that  the  Youth  in  reading,  writing  &  in  good  manners  &  education, 
without  partial  admonition  to  God  &  Christ  may  be  brought  up  and 
Jnstructed. 

All  faithfully  &  without  Fraud,  Jn  true  Witness  whereof  we 
have  with  our  own  hands  Subscribed  &  Sealed  this  Letter  of  At- 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  351 

torney,  and  caused  the  same  to  be  made  under  &  by  publick  Author- 
ity. Done  in  Francfort  on  the  River  of  Mayn,  the  24th  day  of 
January  1700. 

(Seal)     Catharina  Elizabetha  Schiitzin  Widow. 
(Seal)     the  Widow  of  Jacob  van  de  Walle  deceased. 
(Seal)     the  Heirs  of  Daniel  Behagel  deceased. 
(Seal)     Johannes    Kemmler. 
(Seal)     Balthasar  Jawert. 

(Seal)     Johan :  Wilhelm  Petersen  d 

(Seal)     Gerhard  van  Mastrich. 
(Seal)     Johahes  Le  Briin. 

(Seal)     Maria  van  de  Walle  Widow  of  Doctor  Thomas 
van  Willig  with  her  Copartners. 
The  above  and  within  written  is  a  True  Copy  of  ye  originall 
Letter  of  Attorney  as  ye  same  is  Recorded  in  ye  Rolls  Office  at 
Philadelphia  in  Book  D.  2.  vol  4.  page  104  &c. 
Examined  by  me 

Richd.  Heath  Dep.  ibm." 

This  transfer  of  the  agency  of  the  reorganized  German  com- 
pany to  Falkner,  Kelpius  and  Jawert  terminated  Pastorius'  official 
connection  with  the  company's  afifairs.  At  the  end  of  August, 
1700,  the  new  agents,  after  the  arrival  of  Falkner  and  Jawert, 
entered  upon  their  duties.  Pastorius  turned  over  to  the  new 
agents  the  company's  land,  house,  barn,  stable,  corn  (grain)  in 
and  above  ground,  cattle,  household  goods,  utensils,  etc.,  and  also 
arrears  of  rents  and  other  debts  due  the  company,  amounting  in 
all  to  some  £230.  Kelpius,  however,  more  inclined  to  mystic 
dreaming  than  to  business,  and  evidently  soon  convinced  that  he 
could  not  be  party  to  the  acts  of  Falkner,  resigned  his  office  as 
co-agent,  declaring  himself  "civilly  dead"  (civiliter  mortuus), 
delivering  his  authority  to  the  society  and  to  Falkner  to  act  in 
conjunction  with  Jawert  in  his  stead.  The  deed  of  assignment 
is  witnessed  by  Godfried  Seelig  and  Johann  Hendrick  Sprogell. 
Jawert  was  disgusted  at  the  shameful  conduct  of  Falkner,  who, 
among  other  things,  "played  the  sot,"  posted  a  notice  on  the  meet- 
ing-house in  Germantown  warning  the  public  against  transacting 
business  with  Falkner  as  agent  of  the  company.  On  the  20th  of 
March,   1705,  Falkner  and  Jawert  gave  a  letter  of  attorney  to 


352  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

George  Lowther,  who  attempted  to  conduct  the  affairs  of  the 
company,  and  on  the  26th  of  March,  1706,  affixed  a  notice  on 
the  meeting-house  in  Germantown  summoning  those  having  busi- 
ness with  the  company  to  appear  before  him  Friday,  April  5th, 
at  the  house  of  Joseph  Coulson  in  Germantown. 

Henceforth  Pastorius'  interests  in  the  German  Company  are 
chiefly  of  a  personal  character,  as  one  of  the  original  members. 
According  to  his  own  statement,  he  was  appointed  to  act  with 
Hans  Henry  Meels  as  attorney  for  the  4000  acre  donation  made 
by  Catherine  Elizabeth  Schiitz.  The  letter  of  attorney  is  dated 
November  4,  1704.  There  is  no  record  of  his  having  received 
any  compensation  for  his  seventeen  years  of  service  as  agent  for 
the  German  Company. 

The  affairs  of  the  company  rapidly  grew  worse.  As  is  usually 
the  case  in  such  land  crises,  an  adventurer  appeared  in  the  person 
of  Johann  Heinrich  Sprogel,  who,  arriving  from  Holland,  claimed 
to  have  bought  out  the  company's  interests  before  sailing.  Falk- 
ner,  deep  in  debt,  joined  Sprogel  and  retained  David  Lloyd  by 
fraudulently  turning  over  to  him  1000  acres  of  Benjamin  Furley's 
land,  and  quietly  secured  from  the  Court  of  Philadelphia  County 
the  famous  or  infamous  "Writ  of  Ejectment"^'^  dispossessing  the 
German  Company  of  their  25,000  acres  of  land.  The  pleas  were 
made  before  Joseph  Growdon,  Samuel  Finny  and  Nathan  Stan- 
bury,  Esqs.,  Justices  of  the  Court  of  Common  Pleas  of  Philadel- 
phia County,  January  13,  1708.^'^ 

The  injustice  of  this  decision  was  strongly  urged  by  Pasto- 
rius both  in  his  brief.  The  Case  of  the  Francfort  Company's  Busi- 
ness brieffly  Stated,  and  in  his  more  elaborate  statement  of  the 
case  entitled  Exemplum  sine  Exemplo,  written  in  161 1.  In  1713 
Jawert  brought  the  matter  before  the  Friends'  Monthly  Meeting, 


^'  A  copy  of  this  is  to  be  found  in  Pastorius'  hand  in  the  Pastorius  MSS. 
in  the  Historical  Society  of  Pennsylvania. 

"  The  documents  relating  to  this  case  were  first  printed  by  Hon.  Samuel 
W.  Pennypacker  in  his  Pennsylvania  Colonial  Cases,  Philadelphia,  1892. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  353 

calling  David  Lloyd  seriously  to  account   for  the  part  he  had 
taken  in  the  matter. 

After  having  gone  over  the  matter  with  careful  scrutiny 
I  find  no  reason  to  impugn  the  account  given  by  Pastorius  in  both 
of  his  papers,  and  I  print  the  shorter  of  the  two  here  as  his  epit- 
ome of  the  whole  case : 

"The  Case  of  the  Francfort  Company's  Business  brieffly  Stated. 

Jacob  van  de  Walle,  Caspar  Merian,  Johah  Jacob  Schutz, 
Johan  William  Uberfeld,  Johan  William  Petersen  and  Daniel  Be- 
hagel  having  purhcased  15000  acres  of  land  in  Pennsylvania,  gave 
Ano  1683.  the  2d  of  April,  and  the  5th  of  May  to  Francis  Daniel 
Pastorius  two  letters  of  Attorney,  to  administer  the  said  land, 
wherein  they  promised  him  a  reasonable  Salary  out  of  the  Jncomes 
and  Rents  thereof.  Aiio  1683,  the  nth  of  July  Johaii  William 
Uberfeld  conveyed  unto  the  sd  Pastorius  by  a  certain  Deed  of  Sale 
his  1000.  Acres,  which  he  had  purchased  of  William  Penn,  sending 
him  the  Original  Lease  &  Release  under  the  sd  William  Pens  hand 
&  Seal.  Anno  1686  the  12th  of  November  the  abovesd  Vande  Walle 
(having  bought  Caspar  Merian's  share),  Schutz,  Petersen  and  Be- 
hagel  together  with  other  five  persons,  viz:  Gerhard  van  Mastricht, 
Thomas  Willigh,  John  Le  Brun,  Balthasar  Jawert  and  John  Kemler, 
(who  purchased  loooo  Acres  more,)  made  a  Contract  of  [Sale] 
inserting  also  the  sd  Pastorius'  Name  for  1000  Acres;  So  that  the 
whole  Content  of  their  land  is  25000  acres,  and  the  Partners  in  all 
ten. 

Jn  this  Contract  of  Society  among  other  Covenants  &  Articles 
they  agreed,  that  those  of  the  Partners  who  transported  themselves 
into  Pefisilvania  may  take  up  some  land  for  themselves  out  of  the 
sd  Tract  of  25000  Acres  for  a  certain  Recognition  or  Rent,  &c. 
Jtem,  that  if  there  should  happen  any  Misunderstanding  or  Cause 
of  Contention  between  them,  their  heirs  &  Successors,  concerning 
this  Estate,  and  whatever  depends  thereon  the  same  shall  be  deter- 
mined by  two  honest  persons  unanimously  chosen  by  the  differing 
Parties,  and  that  these  two  chosen  persons  shall  have  Power  to  take 
unto  them  the  third,  if  they  think  it  necessary,  &c. 

Anno  1700.  the  24th  of  January  the  Widow  of  Jacob  vande 
Walle,  the  Widow  of  Johan  Jacob  Schutz,  the  heirs  of  Daniel  Be- 
hagel,  the  widow  of  Thomas  Willigh,  John  Kemler.  Balthasar 
Jawert,  Johan  William  Petersen.  Gerhard  van  Mastricht  and  John 
Le  Brun,  (nine  partners  beyond  Sea,)  being  often  requested  by  the 
aforesd  Pastorius,  to  put  an  other  in  his  place,  gave  a  Letter  of  At- 


354  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

torney  to  Daniel  Falkner,  Johannes  Kelpius  &  Johannes  Jawert  to 
act  Jointly,  or  in  Case  of  death  of  one  or  the  other,  then  the  Sur- 
vivors or  Survivor,  &c. 

Eodem  Anno  1700,  the  ist  of  March  Catherin  Elizabeth  Schu- 
tzin  (widow  of  Johan  Jacob  Schijtz),  by  a  Deed  of  Gift  Freely 
gave  the  4000  Acres,  which  her  husband  had  purchased  with  her 
own  money,  unto  such  pious  persons,  as  Daniel  Falkner  &  Arnold 
Stork  shall  think  meet,  which  sd  Stork  Substituted  Francis  Daniel 
Pastorius  &  Hans  Henry  Meels  by  his  Letter  of  Attorney,  dated  the 
4th  of  November  1704.  proved  &  Recorded  at  Philada. 

Jn  the  aforesd  year  1700.  at  the  end  of  the  6th  month  (August,) 
Daniel  Falkner  &  Johaiies  Jawert  being  arrived  here,  began  along 
with  Johannes  Kelpius  to  administer  the  Company's  affairs,  to  whom 
the  sd  Pastorius  delivered  up  the  land,  house,  barn,  stable,  corn  in 
&  above  ground,  Cattel,  household  goods,  Utensils,  &c  and  besides 
in  arrears  of  Rents  &  other  Debts  due  to  the  Company  about  230. 
i  hoping,  they  would  do  Business  with  better  Success,  than  he  sig- 
nified to  the  Partners  in  Germany,  that  he  was  able  or  capable  to  do 
himself;  But  soon  after  Johanes  Kelpius  declared,  [that]  he  would 
not  act  as  Attorney  for  the  sd  Company,  calling  himself  Civiliter 
Mortuus :  Whereupon  Daniel  Falkner  plaid  the  Sot,  making  Bone- 
fires  of  the  Company's  Flax  in  open  street,  giving  a  Piece  of  eight 
to  one  Boy  to  shew  him  in  his  drunken  Fit  a  house  in  Philada.,  and 
to  another  a  Bit  to  light  him  his  Pipe  &c.  Jnsomuch  that  his  Fellow 
Attorney  Johanes  Jawert  affixed  an  Advertisement  on  the  Meeting 
house  at  Germantown,  that  no  body  should  pay  any  Rent  or  other 
Debt  to  the  Company  unto  the  sd  Falkner.  Yea  and  the  then  Bailiff 
and  Burgesses  of  the  Germantown  Corporation  acquainted  the  sd 
Company  of  the  ill  Administration  of  this  their  Attorney  here,  in  a 
letter,  which  (as  they  afterwards  did  hear,)   miscarried. 

For  this  reason  of  Deficiency  of  Power  none  would  buy  any 
land  of  the  sd  Falkner,  and  so  all  was  still  and  quiet,  till  John  Henry 
Sprogel,  (a  cunning  and  fraudulent  Fellow,  as  appears  by  several 
letters,  sent  from  Holland  after  him,)  arrived  in  this  Province, 
who  one  time  would  say,  that  his  father  had  some  Jnterest  in  the 
Francfort  Company,  (which  is  utterly  false;)  and  an  other  time, 
that  he  bought  the  Companies  Estate  of  Gerhard  van  Mastricht 
and  the  rest  when  in  Germany,  and  that  the  French  took  away  his 
writings;  (which  is  no  more  true  than  the  former,)  For  after  he 
was  taken  he  still  for  some  weeks  did  lye  in  Holland,  and  so  might 
either  have  had  other  Deeds  from  them,  or  at  least  a  letter  from 
any  of  them,  to  signify  unto  their  Attornies  here,  that  he  bought  the 
land,  which  he  never  bought  one  acre  of,  as  since  the  sd  van  Mast- 
richt did  write. 


Francis  Daniel  Pastorius  355 

[Meanwhile  the  sd]  Falkner  pretending  to  have  a  Special  Power 
to  Sell,  and  being ebts  together  with  the  sd  Sprogel  be- 
friended themselves   with   David   Lloyd   by   means  of  a  thousand 
Acres  of  Benjamin  Furly  land,  accomplished  their  horrible  Plot,  and 
without  the  least  knowledge  either  of  Johannes  Jawert  or  Francis 
Daniel  Pastorius,  and,  and  also  without  any  Warning  given  to  the 
Tenants  in  Possession,  in  a  Court  held  for  the  County  of  Philada. 
Ejected  the  Company  out  of  their  25000  Acres  of  land,  they  hon- 
estly purchased  in  Pefisilvania.     The  like  Trick  he  the  sd  Falkner 
intended  some  time  before,  imploying  George  Lowther,  who  brought 
that  Jnstrument,  which  he  calls  a  Special  Power,  into  the  German- 
town  Corporation  Court,  in  order  to  have  it  acknowledg'd  &  Re- 
corded; But  the  sd  Court  disapproved  the  same,  Because  the  sd 
Paper  was  only  Signed  by  two  (and  those  the  youngest)  of  the  sd 
Company,  neither  did  it  revoke  the  former  Letter  of  Attorney  given 
to  Falkner,  Kelpius  and  Jawert,  Signed  by  all  the  nine  Partners 
living  in  Germany ;  But  is  only  a  Declaration  of  something  in  the 
sd  Letter  of  Attorney,  which  of  itself  is  plan  &  manifest:  Moreover 
the  sd  Falkner  could  not  prove  the  sd  Jnstrument  according  to  the 
Law  of  this  Province,  And  where  has  he  ever  proved  the  same 
Viva  voce  of  at  least  two  Witnesses?    Had  David  Lloyd  not  shewed 
himself  so  Pragmatical  in  this  Case,  but  let  Daniel  Falkner  by  his 
lame  &  insufficient  Explanatory  Letter  Convey  the  Company's  land 
to  Sprogel,  they  might  easily  long  ago  have  recover'd  the  same,  and 
many  honest  men  in  high  &  low  Germany,  who  are  sincerely  Jnclin'd 
to  Truth,  Peace,  Righteousness  &  Christianity  would  not  be  Occa- 
sioned to  think  so  strange  of  this  the  Pennsilvanian  Lawyers  Way 
of  Ejectment  sine  die;  especially  when  they  hear,  that  One  called  a 
Quaker  had  a  hand  in  it :  And  the  sd  Pastorius  might  at  least  have 
obtained  somewhat  of  a  Salary  for  his  Service  done  unto  the  sd 
Company  Seventeen  years  and  a  half,  and  what  he  disbursed  of  his 
own  during  that  time. 

Now  the  Company  being  thus  miserably  dispossest  of  all  their 
Estate,  as  afore  mentioned,  the  sd  Pastorius  once  with  Arnold 
Cassel  went  to  David  Lloyd,  and  Complaining  of  the  Wrong,  also 
desired  his  Advice,  presenting  him  a  small  Fee,  which  he  refused 
to  take;  but  told  him,  that  he  the  sd  Pastorius  &  Johafies  Jawert 
were  not  included  in  the  Ejectment,  which  they  knew  already.  And 
when  the  sd  Pastorius  further  asked  the  sd  David  Lloyd,  what  was 
best  for  him  to  do?  David  drawing  his  shoulders,  told  him,  that 
his  land  (viz.  the  1000.  Acres)  was  Jnvolv'd  in  that  of  the  Company, 
and  that  he  must  seek  for  it  at  Sprogels.  Which  Counsel  he  the 
sd  Pastorius  scrupled  to  embrace,   ist  not  to  Prejudice  the  Com- 


356  Francis  Daniel  Pastorius 

pany's  Case  by  his  so  doing,  and  2dly  by  reason  that  he  was  fully 
assured  of  Sprogel's  unjust  Occupation; 

For  Joseph  Growden,  (who  at  the  abovesd  County  Court  was 
Judge  upon  that  Bench,)  himself  owned  before  the  Lieutenant 
Governr  and  his  Council,  when  Johahes  Jawert  exhibited  his  Peti- 
tion to  that  Board,  that  the  Court  has  been  Surprised  by  the  Law- 
yers, whom  Falkner  and  Sprogel  had  all  Feed,  except  only  Thomas 
Clark,  who  rising  as  if  he  would  speak  some  thing  to  the  Matter, 
was  taken  by  the  Sleeve  and  Whispered  in  the  Ear,  Be  Quiet,  you 
^hall  have  Forty  shillings,  &c.  as  he  likewise  then  and  there  did 
relate  it  Openly. 

And  if  David  Lloyd  dare  Justify  this  barbarous  Manner  of 
Proceeding,  and  Spoiling  of  Widows  and  Orphans,  its  more  than 
any  can  do  that  professeth  Truth,  and  unless  he  really  repent,  and 
endeavour  to  have  Restitution  made  to  those  who  so  deeply  Suffer 
he  certainly  [will]  be  answerable  for  it  at  the  great  day  of  Judg- 
ment." Francis  Daniel  Pastorius. ^^ 


"  An  adverse  estimate  of  Pastorius'  merits  as  Agent  of  the  German 
(Frankfurt)  Company  is  given  by  J.  F.  Sachse  in  The  German  Pietists  of 
Pennsyhania,  p.  300ff. 


(To  be  continued.) 


GERMAN  ARCHIVES  AS  SOURCES  OF  GERMAN- 
AMERICAN  HISTORY. 

Paper  read  before  the  Pennsylvania  German  Society,  October, 
1907,  by  Joseph  G.  Rosengarten,  LL.  D. 
There  yet  remain  many  sources  of  information  unexhausted 
as  to  details  of  the  part  played  by  Germans  in  American  history. 
In  the  archives  at  Marburg,  still  made  practically  inaccessible 
by  the  want  of  interest  of  the  keeper  in  American  history,  there 
must  be  much  of  value  and  interest.  Every  German  officer  was 
required  to  make  full  reports  for  the  home  authorities  and  to 
keep  journals  for  inspection — few  of  these  have  been  printed.  It 
would  be  well  for  the  Pennsylvania  German  Society  to  invite 
co-operation  of  similar  bodies  in  asking  the  U.  S.  Government  to 
secure  from  the  German  Government  access  to  the  Marburg  and 
other  collections,  and  to  make  calendars  with  a  descriptive  ac- 
count of  the  most  interesting  papers.  The  Library  of  Congress 
is  having  such  calendars  made  in  the  State  Paper  Office  and  other 
record  depositories  in  England,  of  papers  relating  to  American 
history,  particularly  that  of  the  Revolution.  In  a  recent  volume 
of  the  invaluable  publication,  the  Report  of  the  English  Histor- 
ical Commission,  there  are  detailed  descriptions  of  various  mat- 
ters relating  to  the  German  soldiers  serving  with  the  British  in 
this  country.  There  are  curious  and  interesting  descriptions  of 
the  efforts  made  by  the  American  authorities  to  secure  recruits 
from  the  German  soldiers  who  were  prisoners  of  war — both  men 
and  officers  reported  quite  fully  on  this  subject,  and  clearly  there 
must  have  been  many  successful  conversions  of  the  German  sol- 
diers into  good  Americans,  for  substantial  inducements  and  re- 
wards were  held  out.  We  hear  from  time  to  time  of  good  Ameri- 
can citizens  claiming  descent  from  Hessian  soldiers  who  remained 
and  settled   in  this  country,   and   particularly  in   Pennsylvania, 

(357) 


358     German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History 

Maryland  and  Virginia,  where  many  of  them  found  homes  with 
their  fellow  countrymen,  old  settlers,  sometimes  with  relations, 
often  with  old  friends  and  neighbors  in  the  Fatherland.  The  late 
Rev.  Dr.  Morris,  of  Baltimore,  himself  an  active  worker  in  the 
history  of  Germans  in  Maryland,  was  very  proud  that  he  was  the 
son  of  a  Hessian  who  had  left  the  British  forces  at  York,  Pa., 
joined  the  American  army  and  served  with  credit,  and  became  an 
honored  citizen  of  York. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  gather  the  particulars  of  such 
cases,  which  must  have  been  very  numerous  in  the  aggregate. 
Then,  too.  the  royal  masters  who  had  sold  their  men  to  Great 
Britain,  encouraged  them  to  take  leave  of  their  old  flag  and  settle 
in  America,  for  thus  all  questions  of  pension  compensation  at 
home  were  solved.  It  would  be  interesting  to  know  how  many 
did  so  and  how  many  brought  family  and  friends  and  neighbors 
from  the  Fatherland  to  settle  in  America,  and  thus  started  that 
stream  of  immigration  which  flowed  so  strongly  and  enriched 
the  United  States  with  so  large  a  part  of  one  of  its  most  valuable 
elements,  our  German  American  citizens.  Then  again,  it  has 
often  been  asked,  "What  colors  did  the  German  troops  serving 
with  the  British  army  carry  and  what  became  of  them?"  It  is 
recorded  in  the  interesting  Berufsreise  of  Madam  Riedesel,  that 
she  saved  the  colors  of  her  husband's  regiment,  when  it  surren- 
dered with  Burgoyne  at  Saratoga,  by  sewing  them  up  in  her  petti- 
coats, and  thus  carried  them  home.  Unluckily,  a  fire  destroyed 
them,  together  with  many  of  the  records  of  the  Brunswick  troops, 
in  the  city  of  Brunswick.  Mr.  Gherardi  Davis,  of  New  York,  has 
devoted  much  time  and  attention  to  the  study  of  the  flags  carried 
in  the  Revolution  by  both  American  and  foreign  troops. 
He  has  recently  printed  a  book  of  great  interest  and  value  on 
the  subject.  Here  in  the  collection  of  the  Historical  Society  of 
Pennsylvania,  are  preserved  the  almost  faded  and  perishing  colors 
of  the  Anspach  regiment,  and  at  West  Point  and  in  the  New 
York  Historical  Society  there  are  others.    The  Rev.  Dr.  Edward 


German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History     359 

Everett  Hale,  an  indefatigable  octogenarian,  remembers  having 
seen  staffs  with  German  colors,  captured  at  the  Battle  of  Ben- 
nington, where  Baum's  Heavy  Brunswick  Dragoons  were  routed 
by  Stark's  Militia  Sharp  Shooters.  The  colors  have  long  smce 
disappeared,  so  that  they  cannot  be  identified,  but  the  flagstaffs 
are  still  piously  preserved  in  the  Old  North  Church,  of  Boston. 
Thanks  to  the  kindly  interposition  of  His  Excellency,  the  Hon. 
Charlemagne  Tower,  American  Ambassador  to  Germany,  the 
effort  is  now  being  made  in  Berlin  to  secure  a  collection  of  repro- 
ductions of  all  the  flags  carried  by  German  troops  serving  in 
America,  and  if  it  is  only  approximately  complete,  it  will  be  an 
interesting  addition  to  and  illustration  of  Mr.  Davis'  work. 

At  West  Point  there  are  also  some  German  flags  captured 
by  the  Americans,  and  these  will  no  doubt  be  identified  by  com- 
parison with  the  German  reproductions.  There  are  some  huge 
German  Dragoon  boots  and  some  arms  preserved  in  Bennington, 
as  relics  of  that  victory  which  so  clearly  established  the  superior- 
ity of  the  American  sharpshooter  over  the  trained  German  soldier, 
for  warfare  in  our  mountain  country.  What  trophies  did  the 
Germans  carry  home,  other  than  the  colored  drummers  taken  by 
Riedesel  to  Brunswick,  where  the  tradition  and  the  writers  of 
historical  novels  have  preserved  their  memory  and  perhaps  exag- 
gerated it? 

A  valuable  addition  to  our  better  knowledge  of  the  actual 
life  and  surroundings  of  the  German  soldiers  here,  is  derived 
from  their  journals  and  diaries.  To  the  growing  number  of 
these  personal  records,  Prof.  Learned  has  added  the  Waldeck 
Diary,  kept  by  a  chaplain  of  that  name  and  of  the  Waldeck  reg- 
iment. He  has  enriched  the  value  and  interest  of  the  text  by 
notes  supplied  by  his  own  intimate  knowledge  of  the  subject, 
and  by  special  research  in  foreign  archives.  After  all,  however, 
when  it  is  remembered  that  every  oflRcer  must  and  many  soldiers 
did  keep  diaries  and  journals,  what  we  have  of  them  in  print  is 
a  very  small  proportion  of  those  still  in  uncatalogued  archives 


360     German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History 

and  in  private  hands.  Not  long  since,  one  such  journal,  Captain 
Dernberg's,  was  printed  on  the  anniversary  of  a  great  public 
school  in  Germany  as  a  tribute  to  one  of  its  former  pupils.  It 
is  to  be  hoped  that  many  more  will  yet  see  the  light,  for  ev«ry 
such  diary  brings  us  in  close  touch  with  the  men  and  the  deeds 
and  the  events  of  that  heroic  time,  the  war  for  American  Inde- 
pendence ;  and  as  much  can  be  learned  from  the  statements  made 
in  all  good  faith  of  those  who  tried  to  prevent  it,  as  from  its 
most  ardent  supporters.  In  the  latest  and  one  of  the  best  works 
on  the  subject,  that  of  Sir  George  Trevellyan,  it  is  interesting 
to  note  the  extent  to  which  he  has  drawn  from  such  sources, 
mostly  hitherto  unused  by  the  solemn  historian  of  the  old  school, 
but  in  the  hands  of  so  great  a  master  as  Sir  George  Trevellyan, 
adding  entirely  new  light  to  the  picture  he  draws  of  the  great 
struggle  for  American  independence.  It  must  be  recognized,  too, 
that  the  Declaration  of  Independence  was  almost  as  much  one 
for  constitutional  liberty  of  England  as  of  America. 

From  the  peace  of  Paris,  the  power  of  the  Crown  dimin- 
ished and  that  of  Parliament  increased.  What  influence  Amer- 
ican example  and  experience  had  on  the  Germans  who  served  in 
this  country,  is  now^here  distinctly  stated,  yet  there  can  be  little 
doubt  that  the  American  War  of  Independence  was  a  large  factor 
in  the  struggle  against  Napoleon  and  the  final  establishment  of 
Germany  as  an  independent  power,  and  later  on  of  its  logical 
outgrowth,  the  German  Empire  of  to-day.  Almost  every  Amer- 
ican pamphlet  or  book  or  record  of  its  Congress,  was  translated 
and  published  in  Germany.  Many  of  these  and  other  contem- 
porary publications  have  historical  interest  to-day.  as  showing 
the  trend  of  political  sympathy  and  opinion  of  Germany  of  that 
day,  its  close  and  watchful  interest  in  America,  and  the  difference 
between  the  Hanoverians  and  particularly  the  Gottingen  Pro- 
fessors, naturally  sympathizing  with  their  elector  and  the  King 
of  England,  on  one  side,  and  the  rest  of  intellectual  Germany 
on  the  other. 


German  Archives  as  Sources  of  Ge?  man-American  History     361 

We  all  remember  gratefully  Schiller's  eloquent  diatribes 
against  the  petty  sovereigns  who  sold  their  subjects  to  fight  in 
America,  against  freedom,  and  in  a  cause  with  which  they  had 
no  concern  and  certainly  no  reason  for  hostility.  It  would  be 
interesting  to  know  how  many  of  these  German  "hirelings"  re- 
mained in  or  returned  to  this  country,  and  how  many  other 
sturdy  Germans  were  led  to  come  here  as  settlers  by  the  favorable 
report  of  the  country  and  the  people  in  which  they  had  gained 
so  little  honor,  but  so  much  knowledge  and  experience.  The 
large  accession  of  Germans,  with  all  the  thrift  and  perseverance 
and  other  virtues  of  the  race,  may  be  due,  in  a  large  part,  to  the 
German  soldiers  sent  here  witliout  their  own  consent,  to  help 
maintain  British  control.  At  all  events,  it  would  be  well  to  secure 
and  preserve  all  official  and  personal  narratives  of  their  enforced 
visit  to  America  and  all  the  stories  of  America  told  by  them  and 
others  on  their  return.  To  the  patient  and  persevering  researches 
of  Dr.  Sachse,  this  Society  and  the  public  that  reads  its  pub- 
lished volumes,  may  well  make  acknowledgment  for  the  light 
he  has  thrown  on  the  early  history  of  the  sects  that  came  to  this 
country  of  freedom  of  religious  opinion,  on  the  help  that  Germans 
gave  Pennsylvania  in  the  successful  founding  of  this  great  Com- 
monwealth, and  on  some  of  its  leaders  of  thought  and  action. 

Other  workers  in  other  fields  of  historical  research  have 
added  to  our  knowledge  of  the  early  settlers  of  Pennsylvania.  Will 
not  this  Society  now  lend  its  help  to  procuring  copies,  if  not  orig- 
inal papers,  from  the  German  archives  and  from  both  private  and 
public  collections,  and  add  them  to  the  historical  material 
now  being  slowly  gathered  in  the  Library  of  Congress,  in  that 
of  the  venerable  German  Society  of  Pennsylvania,  and  in  the 
Library  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  and  in  that  of  the  His- 
torical Society — all  gradually  growing  in  importance.  What 
Seidensticker  and  Pennypacker  have  done  for  early  Pennsylvania 
history ;  what  Rattermann,  of  Cincinnati,  has  done  for  the  history 
of  Germans  and  German  literature  in  America ;  what  this  Society 


362     German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History 

has  done  and  is  still  doing  for  a  better  knowledge  of  Pennsyl- 
vania Germans,  their  history,  their  religion,  their  customs  and 
their  ancestry;  what  Learned  has  done  for  their  literature  and 
its  steady  growth  and  development,  all  of  these  and  kindred  con- 
tributions may  well  be  an  inspiration  to  continued  and  renewed 
effort  to  collect  from  all  quarters  all  records  of  the  Germans  who 
have  so  greatly  heli>ed  to  make  this  nation  and  much  of  its  his- 
tory. 

There  is  a  large  harvest  to  be  gathered  of  printed  books,  lis- 
torical  and  geographical  descriptions,  biographies  and  autobiog- 
raphies, novels  and  poetry,  written  by  Germans  in  and  on  Amer- 
ica, during  the  long  period  from  the  first  settlement  of  Germans 
in  this  country  down  to  our  own  day.  Hessian  and  Swabian 
local  authors,  and  others  of  much  wider  fame,  have  written  about 
their  countrymen  in  this  country,  both  in  war  and  in  peace.  Indi- 
vidual collectors  have  gathered  much  of  this  material,  but  the 
Pennsylvania  German  Society  might  well  enter  this  field  and 
secure  copies  of  all  that  throAvs  light  on  the  German  settlers  of 
Pennsylvania,  from  the  first  comers  to  our  own  day. 

With  the  recent  development  of  close  and  friendly  relations 
between  the  German  Empire  and  the  United  States,  it  ought  to 
be  possible  to  have  access  to  German  archives  with  their  wealth 
of  material  relating  to  our  own  history,  national  and  local.  In 
war  matters,  Kapp  and  Lowell  have  given  us  much  in  print,  but 
thev  and  others  have  left  much  still  in  manuscript.  Mr.  Ban- 
croft's collection  of  material  for  his  History  of  the  United  States, 
largely  collected  for  him  bv  Kapp.  is  now  accessible  in  the  Lenox 
Library,  in  New  York.  Mr.  IvOwell's  admirable  hook.TJte  Hes- 
sian Troops  in  the  American  Revohition .  by  no  means  exhausted 
the  wealth  of  original  documents  procured  by  him  during  a  long 
stay  in  Germany.  His  representatives  would  no  doubt  give  per- 
mission to  this  Societ^^  through  a  properly  accredited  representa- 
tive, to  make  a  selection  of  material  to  print  for  the  use  of  stu- 
dents.   The  English  Historical  Commission  Reports,  Doniol's  ex- 


German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History     363 

haustive  work  on  France  and  the  United  States,  are  examples  of 
the  kind  of  material  that  can  be  found  in  hitherto  hidden  archives 
and  in  collections  belonging  to  individuals.  An  industrious  Swe- 
dish-American, Mr.  Amandus  Johnson,  of  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania,  has  found  in  Sweden  new  material  for  the  better 
knowledge  of  the  history  of  its  early  settlements  on  the  Delaware. 
Surely  our  German  students  can  do  as  much  for  us  at  home  and 
abroad. 

An  American  author,  Mr.  Henry  Charles  Lea,  has  won  great 
and  deserved  reputation,  even  greater  in  Europe  than  in  this 
country,  by  his  monumental  historical  writings;  his  mastery  of 
the  subjects  he  has  made  his  special  field  of  research,  is  based 
on  his  large  collection  of  original,  mainly  manuscript  material, 
gathered  in  Spain  and  in  the  countries  that  were  formerly  Span- 
ish colonies,  in  Mexico  and  in  Peru,  as  well  as  in  Germany,  where 
the  great  university  libraries  have  furnished  much  hitherto  un- 
used material  for  this  greatest  of  American  historians.  True, 
it  is  his  ability  to  know  how  to  use  it  that  has  made  him  so  widely 
honored  wherever  his  works  are  known,  but  first  he  had  to  col- 
lect his  sources  from  afar. 

Is  there  not  a  Avide  field  of  research  and  collection  open  to 
the  Pennsylvania  German  Society  and  to  kindred  bodies,  a  field 
in  which  new  discoveries  of  old  material  still  remain  for  the  dil- 
igent student?  Cannot  this  Society  enlist  the  co-operation  of 
kindred  bodies  in  obtaining  copies  from  the  German  archives, 
of  all  documents  throwing  new  light  on  the  history  of  Germans  in 
this  and  other  States?  Will  not  such  a  task  be  an  inspiration  to 
all  who  are  looking  for  subjects  on  which  to  obtain  and  dissem- 
inate a  larger  knowledge  of  our  past  history,  and  thus  show  them 
that  patriotism  which  is  the  highest  honor  of  American  citizen- 
ship, and  make  known  what  Germans  and  Germany  have  done 
for  this  country? 

How  invaluable  would  be  a  diary,  even  crudely  written,  by 
a  resident  of  Hesse  or  any  of  the  small  German  States,  durmg 


364      German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History 

the  war  of  the  American  Revolution,  telHng  the  story  of  the  rais- 
ing of  troops  for  service  in  America,  of  the  departure  of  indi- 
vidual soldiers  and  organizations,  of  the  reports  and  rumors 
received  at  home  from  the  distant  soldiers,  and  of  their  return 
and  welcome  home.  We  have  a  few  diaries  and  journals  kept 
by  the  soldiers,  and  even  by  the  officers,  and  there  must  be  many 
more  still  in  manuscript.  Sir  George  Trevellyan's  recent  volumes 
of  history  of  the  American  Revolution  show,  almost  for  the  first 
time,  the  state  of  public  opinion  in  England  towards  the  Amer- 
icans, and  there  must  be  material  for  some  similar  view  of  the 
feeling  of  the  German  families  towards  the  country  to  which  the 
sons  had  been  sent  to  subdue  a  rebellion  that  found  so  many 
warm  supporters  among  the  Germans  in  both  Germany  and 
America.  Apart  from  military  records  and  reports,  we  want  to 
know  what  was  the  general  drift  of  sentiment ;  of  public  opinion 
there  was  little  or  none  in  those  days  of  German  separate  and 
bad  governments.  What  was  the  result  of  the  return  of  several 
thousand  soldiers  from  a  country  where,  in  spite  of  war,  there 
was  prosperity  for  every  industrious  family,  to  poor  Germany, 
ground  down  by  taxes  and  hopeless  of  either  political  or  social 
future  ? 

Were  not  the  returned  soldiers  the  best  advocates  for  that 
emigration  which  benefited  both  countries?  A  recent  German 
historical  novel,  dealing  with  a  Hessian  soldier,  makes  him  find 
a  brother,  long  before  settled  in  Pennsylvania,  who  contrasted  his 
comfort  and  prospects  with  those  of  the  family  left  in  Germany. 
Was  not  this  the  condition  of  many  families,  who  gladly  joined 
their  friends  and  relatives  across  the  ocean  and  thus  helped  to 
swell  the  tide  of  emigration?  What  the  Hallesche  Nachrichten 
do  for  a  better  knowledge  of  the  religious  life  of  the  Germans  in 
America,  the  letters  and  diaries  and  journals  of  German  soldiers 
here  during  the  Revolution  will  do  for  a  more  intimate  view  of 
actual  life  in  this  country. 

Professor  Learned  and  Mr.  Myers  have  made  an  interesting 


German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History     365 

exhibit  at  Jamestown  of  charts  showing  the  gradual  spread  of 
German  and  other  migrations  from  the  North  to  the  South  and 
West  in  Colonial  days,  and  after  the  Revolution  and  the  Consti- 
tution had  opened  the  whole  Union  to  newcomers.  They  have 
also  gathered  many  interesting  relics  of  those  early  days,  showing 
the  implements  of  trade  in  farming  and  other  pursuits.  Why  not 
try  to  collect  the  printed  and  manuscript  material  that  will  show 
how  Germany  learned  to  know  the  boundless  resources  of  Amer- 
ica, and  how  this  country  became  a  prosperous  home  for  the 
thousands  of  Germans  whose  descendants  still  honor  their  ances- 
try in  this  and  other  States. 

Much  in  the  way  of  research  and  collection  still  remains, 
and  this  Society,  proud  of  its  stately  volumes  of  papers  on  the 
local  history  and  achievements  of  Pennsylvania  Germans,  may 
well  find  a  new  field  of  activity  in  inviting  the  co-operation  of 
similar  societies.  United  effort  cannot  fail  to  open  archives 
hitherto  closed,  and  to  obtain  from  public  and  private  sources, 
much  of  value  and  interest  for  a  better  knowledge  of  our  German 
settlers  and  emigrants,  and  their  homes  and  ancestors  and  local 
surroundings.  Professor  Learned  has  been  a  diligent  laborer  in 
this  field;  his  study  of  the  family  of  Pastorius  shows  what  a 
harvest  of  facts,  hitherto  unknown,  he  has  garnered  by  intelligent 
pursuit  of  inquiries  in  Germany.  What  he  has  done  single 
handed,  may  well  be  continued  and  increased  in  result  by  the 
united  effort  of  a  body  as  powerful  as  the  Pennsylvania  German 
Society. 

A  member  of  a  well  known  family  of  Philadelphia,  Mr. 
John  Frederick  Lewis,  has  gathered  material  for  the  genealogy 
and  history  of  his  ancestors,  Ludwig  was  the  old  German  name, 
and  his  research  has  been  amply  rewarded  by  showing  how  well 
that  name  deserved  honor  and  won  it  alike  in  the  Fatherland  and 
in  the  new  home  in  America.  Such  examples  are  well  worth 
bearing  in  mind  as  illustrations  of  what  can  be  done  by  the  Penn- 
sylvania German  Society. 


366     German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History 

Let  me  urge  this  Society  to  use  its  influence,  due  to  its 
activity  and  the  value  of  its  publications,  to  secure  a  complete  cat- 
alogue of  all  the  papers  preserved  in  German  archives,  and  in 
private  collections,  relating  to  America  in  its  Colonial  days,  in 
the  Revolutionary  War,  and  in  the  time  of  that  German  immi- 
gration which  has  been  so  large  a  factor  in  American  prosperity. 
The  time  is  ripe  for  thus  harvesting  in  our  national  library  at 
Washington,  all  that  can  be  garnered  abroad  and  at  home.  The 
Pennsylvania  Society  would  thus  broaden  its  field  of  activity, 
would  enlist  the  co-operation  of  kindred  societies,  and  would 
make  its  work  national. 

Let  me  present  the  contents  of  a  letter  from  Prof.  Charles 
M.  Andrews,  of  Johns  Hopkins  University,  giving  a  summary 
of  the  work  he  is  doing  to  add  manuscript  sources  from  English 
archives  to  the  material  for  history  of  the  United  States. 

Prof.  Andrews  is  preparing  a  Guide  to  the  English  Archives 
and  is  having  transcripts  from  them  made  for  the  Library  of 
Congress.  He  has  described  the  first  part  of  the  work  in  a  report 
printed  not  long  since.  The  work  of  1903-4  covered  the  principal 
collections  of  English  records,  in  1905  it  was  devoted  to  the 
Colonial  Office  papers,  /.  e.,  the  Board  of  Trade  and  America 
and  West  Indies,  and  included  also  commercial  and  colonial  cor- 
respondence. In  1906  it  covered  many  of  the  minor  repositories, 
including  the  Guildhall  Library,  the  Royal  Society,  Dr.  Wil- 
liams' Library,  Lion  College,  Devonshire  House,  Society  for  the 
Propagation  of  the  Gospel,  etc.  In  1907  he  completed  his  survey 
of  the  Public  Record  Office,  the  Audit  Office,  Commissariat  and 
Customs  Offices,  the  Treasury,  Solicitor,  with  a  re-examination 
of  the  War  Office,  Foreign  Office,  and  Home  Office  collections, 
the  records  of  the  Corporation  of  London  in  the  Guildhall,  the 
Bodleian  and  the  British  Museum  Libraries.  The  work  was 
originally  projected  in  two  volumes,  with  the  title,  "Guide  to  the 
Materials  for  the  History  of  the  United  States  to  1783,  in  Lon- 
don Archives,  in  the  British  Museum,  and  in  the  Manuscript 


German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History     367 

Collections  of  Oxford  and  Cambridge."  The  first  volume  is 
waiting  for  the  re-arrangement  of  the  records  now  in  progress 
in  England,  and  is  thus  postponed  for  an  uncertain  time.  The 
second  volume  will  appear  probably  this  winter  and  under  an 
independent  title.  Work  for  the  Library  of  Congress  will  pro- 
vide in  the  neighborhood  of  one  hundred  volumes  of  transcripts, 
of  which  a  list  was  given  in  the  Report  of  the  Librarian  for  1906, 
pp.  137-9,  b^^  many  additions  have  been  made  since.  It  includes 
documents  from  the  Bodleian  and  British  Museum  Libraries, 
from  the  Admiralty,  Colonial  and  Treasury  papers  in  the  Record 
Office.  It  also  includes  papers  relating  to  the  Hessian  and  other 
German  allied  soldiers  serving  in  this  country,  from  the  Treasury, 
Colonial  and  Audit  and  Foreign  Offices  and  the  British  Museum. 
The  material  is  so  scattered  and  much  of  it  so  little  known,  that 
a  calendar  of  it  should  be  very  useful  to  anyone  writing  the  his- 
tory of  the  German  auxiliary  troops  in  America.  Letters,  agree- 
ments, rosters,  descriptions  often  in  minute  detail,  accounts,  sta- 
tistics of  losses,  killed,  wounded  and  captured,  of  individual 
losses  in  battles,  as  at  Trenton,  regarding  which  some  very  im- 
portant information  came  to  light  in  a  volume  found  this  summer 
in  the  Audit  Office,  labeled  "Acct.  of  the  extraordinary  Disburse- 
ments, to  be  made  good  by  the  Crown  of  Great  Britain,  for  the 
losses  of  the  Hessian  troops  from  1776- 1784."  These  accounts 
are  often  itemized  in  great  detail,  items  for  sickness,  hospital 
charges,  repairs  to  guns,  traveling  expenses,  postage,  etc.  The 
lists  of  personal  effects,  money,  jewelry,  baggage,  lost  at  Trenton, 
are  most  interesting.  These  documents  are  all  in  English,  but 
many  of  the  others  are  in  German  and  French.  Two  volumes  on 
"America  and  West  Indies,"  contain  some  correspondence  with 
Brig.-General  Campbell,  on  the  subject  of  embarkation,  and 
among  the  Foreign  Office  papers  "Prussia,"  aie  many  letters 
which  relate  to  the  attitude  of  Frederick  II.  on  the  subject  of 
allowing  hired  German  troops  to  pass  through  Prussian  or  rather 
Hohenzollern  territory.     What  Prof.  Andrews  is  thus  doing  in 


368     German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History 

English  archives  may  well  be  followed  in  those  in  Germany. 
There  are  i8o  volumes  compiled  by  the  late  B.  F.  Stevens,  now 
in  the  Library  of  Congress,  forming  an  exhaustive  catalogue 
index  of  manuscripts  in  the  archives  of  England,  France,  Hol- 
land and  Spain,  relating  to  America,  from  1763- 1783,  described 
as  "the  sole  key  to  the  American  Revolutionary  documents  in 
European  archives,"  yet  none  of  those  in  Germany  are  included. 
Prof.  Andrews,  too,  limits  his  "Guide  to  Material  in  British  Col- 
lections" to  be  issued  by  the  Carnegie  Institution,  of  Washington, 
to  collections  in  England.  Even  there  he  has  found  material  for 
a  calendar  of  papers  relating  to  the  German  troops  in  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution,  described  by  the  Librarian  of  the  Congressional 
Library  as  "interesting  in  itself  and  serving  to  complete  such  cal- 
endars now  in  the  Library,"  although  as  yet  it  is  limited  to  only 
a  portion  of  the  German  troops  serving  here.  It  is  described  by 
Prof.  Andrews  as  "three  bundles  of  papers  containing  the  ac- 
counts of  the  Hessian  troops  engaged  during  the  war,  1775- 1779, 
with  tables  giving  the  exact  names,  ranks  and  numbers  of  Bran- 
denburg and  Anspach  forces  in  America,  forming  altogether  one 
of  the  most  complete  rosters  of  the  Hessians  that  we  have.  The 
documents  are  in  French,  German  and  English."  In  the  vast 
mass  of  uncatalogued  papers  in  the  British  Museum  are  papers 
relating  to  the  Palatines,  in  the  Lansdowne  manuscripts;  in  the 
New  Castle  papers  there  are  17  volumes  of  Bouquet  papers,  and 
231  volumes  of  Haldimund  papers,  listed  in  Brymner's  Canadian 
Archives;  in  the  War  Office  records  there  are  "Hessian  letters 
with  rosters."  Prof.  Andrews  points  to  the  untouched  records  of 
the  Foreign  Office,  for  reports  from  British  diplomatic  and  mili- 
tary agents  in  Germany,  particularly  in  Brunswick,  Hesse  and  the 
other  states  that  furnished,  as  well  as  those  that  refused  to  sell 
troops  to  Great  Britain.  What  wealth  of  material  must  there  be 
as  yet  untouched  or  only  partly  known,  in  the  archives  of  these 
countries,  from  which  much  information  yet  remains  to  be  gath- 
ered. 


German  Archives  as  Sources  of  German- American  History     369 

As  an  illustration  of  how  much  more  of  ignorance  there  is 
than  of  information  on  German  Americans,  let  me  point  to  a 
paragraph  in  a  recent  English  book,  "Society  in  the  Country 
House,"  by  T.  H.  S.  Escott,  formerly  editor  of  a  leading  English 
magazine,  and  a  voluminous  author.  This  book  bears  the  im- 
print of  Geo.  W.  Jacobs  &  Co.,  Philadelphia.  In  it  (on  page  356) 
he  speaks  of  Sunday  Schools  "acclimated  at  Ephratah,  in  Penn- 
sylvania, by  the  descendants  of  those  who  had  sailed  to  New  Eng- 
land in  the  Mayflower."  Is  not  such  a  statement  the  strongest 
argument  in  support  of  my  plea  for  a  plan  for  calendars  or  de- 
scriptive catalogues  of  the  records  preserved  in  German  archives 
touching  American  history  and  the  share  of  Germans  in  it? 


PROVINCIALISMS    OF    SOUTHEASTERN    PENNSYL- 
VANIA. 

By  Professor  B.  A.  Heydrick, 

State  Normal  School,  Millersville,  Pa. 

(Continued.) 

Blow  up  (snow,  rain,  &c.).  Storm  coming. 

"It  will  blow  up  something  before  night." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Sch.,  Bucks,  Ad. 
Pa.  Ger.  ufblosa;  Ger.  heraiifblascn. 
C. — Quotes  Shakespere,  "Blow  up  rain." — Lucrece,  1.  1788. 

BouGHTEN.  Purchased. 

"I  have  a  boughten  sled." 
Sch.,  Bucks,  Lack.,  Mif.,  Berks,  Sul. 
C— Coll.  U.  S. 

Bush.  Woods. 

"The  horse  ran  off  the  road  into  the  bush." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Dau.,  Sch.,  Berks,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  bush,  a  forest;  Ger.  Busch  denotes  a  small  wood, 

thicket. 
Used  also  in  Ontario,  Canada,  and  Wisconsin. 
C. — Stretch  of  forest  or  shrubby  vegetation ;  scrub. 

Brash.i  Brittle. 

"That  stick's  too  brash;  it  will  break  easily." 
Lan.,  Men,  Ad.,  Per.,  Y. 
Also  in  Canada. 
C— Local  in  U.  S. 

Brash. 2  Impetuous. 

"If  the  river  gets  too  brash  the  ice  will  go." 
Lan.,  Bucks,  Ad.,  Phila. 
C— Coll.  Eng.  and  U.  S. 

Briggle,  v.  Trifle ;  to  work  ineffectively. 

"You  never  will  get  it  done  if  you  briggle  away  at  it  like  that." 
Blair,  Mercer.,  Y.,  Lan. 

C.-O. — Not  given  in  Murray's  New  Eng.  Diet,  nor  in  Wright's 
Eng.  Dial.  Diet. 

(370) 


Provincialisms  of  Soiitheastern  Pennsylvania  37 1 

Butter-bread.  Buttered  bread. 

"I  want  some  butter-bread." 
The  expression  "gravy-bread"  is  also  used. 
Lan.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Dau.,  Ad.,  Cum.,  Bvicks,  Blair, 
fr.  Pa.  Ger,  bud'r-brod;  Ger.  butterbrod. 
C.-O. 

By,  or  Byo.  Cradle  (in  nursery  talk). 

"Put  the  baby  in  the  byo  now.'' 
Lan.,  Bed.,  Per.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Sch.,  Berks. 

Query :  From  by-low ;  by-low  land  =  sleep.    Used  by  Pa.  Ger- 
mans, but  not  given  in  Home. 
C.-O. 

Caba  (cab'a).  Hand-satchel  used  by  a  lady. 

"She  had  her  handkerchief  in  her  caba." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Ches.,  Ad.,  Sch.,  Phila. 
fr.  cabas,  but  used  in  Pa.  Ger.     Not  in  Home. 
C.  and  Web.  Int.  give  this  word  as  if  used  everywhere ;  Murray 
says  U.  S.     Is  it  even  general  in  the  U.  S.?     It  is  reported 
as  unknown  in  these  places :   Crawford  and   Montour  Co., 
Pa. ;    Eastern    Nebraska,   Northern   Illinois,    Northern    New 
Hampshire,  Loudoun  Co.,  Va.,  and  Somerset  Co.,  Md. 

Calculate.  Think;  sometimes,  to  intend. 

"I  calculate  to  get  my  money's  worth." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Sch.,  Ches.,  Fran.,  Y.,  Cum.,  Ad. 
C. — Colloq.  N.  Eng. 

Catty.  Small  cat-fish. 

"He  caught  a  catty  in  the  dam." 
Lan.,  Bucks,  Ad.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Phila. 
Cf.  sunny,  stony. 
C.-O. 

Cellar-neck.     (Rare.)  Cellar-way  or  entrance. 

"Be  careful  in  going  down  the  cellar-neck." 
Lan.,  Leb. 

Pa.  Ger.  kelarhols;  Ger.  Kellerhals. 
C.-O. 

Chaff-bag.  Straw  tick. 

"He  can  sleep  better  on  a  chaff-bag  than  on  feathers." 
Lan.,  Ad.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Sch. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  shbrousok;  Ger.  Spreusack. 
C.-O. 


372  Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 

Chicker.     (Rare.)  Cultivate  (a  field)  ;  to  drag  with  a  harrow. 

"You  ought  to  chicker  that  ground  more." 
Ad.,  Leb.,  Cen.,  Y. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  chicker.    Not  in  Home. 
Also  pronounced  checker,  jigger. 
C.-O. 

Come  away.  Disappear ;  become  lost. 

"My  knife  came  away  last  week." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Sch.,  Leh.,  Dau.,  Berks,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  wekkumd;  Ger.  ivegkommen. 
C.-O. 

Com  MY.  A  stone  marble,  the  commonest  sort. 

"He  won  all  my  commys." 
Lan.,  Ad.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Mercer,  Sch.,  Phila. 
In  Canada  called  grays. 
Query :  f r.  Common. 
C.-O. 

CoNCEiTY.  1  Over-particular,  notional ;  ^conceited. 

"He's  too  conceity  about  his  victuals." 
Ches.,  Camb.,  Sch.,  Mif.,  Lan.,  Y.,  Ad. 
Cf.  Conceit,  v. 
C.-O. 
Murray — Chiefly  Scottish. 

Complected.  Having  a  certain  complexion. 

"He  was  a  daiTk-complected  fellow." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Mif.,  Camb.,  Sch.,  Ches.,  Cum. 
(Cf.  adjectives  formed  by  adding  -ed  to  nouns,  as  booted,  v. 

Appendix  to  Schmidt's  Shakespere  Lexicon.) 
C— Coll.  W.  &  S.,  U.  S. 

Contraption.  Device,  Contrivance. 

"He  fixed  up  a  contraption  to  keep  the  cow  from  hooking  people." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Cum.,  Bucks,  Ad. 
Cent.— Coll.  U.  S. 
W.-O. 

Corn.  Give  corn  to. 

"Did  you  corn  the  horses?" 
Lan.,  Bedford. 

Verb  formed  from  noun.    Cf.  hub. 
C. — Scotch. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  373 

Crisskingle.  I.  Santa  Claus.     2.  A  Christmas  gift. 

"See  what  Criss  Kingle  brought  me !" 
Ad.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Lan.,  Sch.,  Cent.,  and  Salem  Co.,  N.  J. 
Pa.  Ger.  Krishd  Kind'l;  Ger.  Christ  Kindlein. 
It  is  used  of  the  giver  and  of  the  gift,  but  the  first  is  more 

common.    It  is  never  used  in  the  sense  given  below. 
C.  (Cyc.  Names)  defines  as  the  Christ  Child. 

Dare,i  v.  t.  Have  permission. 

"Dare  I  be  excused  early  to-day?" 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  darfd;  Ger.  durfen. 

Dare,2  n.  Permission,  often  with  article,  as  below. 

C.-O. 

"May  I  have  the  dare  to  go  ?" 
Y.,  Dau.,  Lan.,  Per.,  Mif.,  Sch.,  Ad. 
See  Dare.^ 
C.-O. 

Dinner.  Noon ;  time  of  dining. 

"We  had  beans  this  dinner" — i.  e.,  to-day  at  dinner. 
(Cf.  breakfast  and  supper). 

Lan.,  Lib.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Lack.,  Camb.,  Ches.,  Cum.,  Berks, 
fr.  Ger.  Mittag;  Pa.   Ger.  middog,  which  in  both  languages 

means  dinner  as  well  as  noon. 
C.-O. 

Doctor-book.  Family  medical  guide. 

"Look  in  the  Doctor-hook  and  see  what  ails  you." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Sch.,  Bucks,  Lack.,  Huntg.,  Cent, 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  Dukt'r  buck. 
C.-O. 

Do  UP.  Can ;  preserve. 

"I  will  do  up  the  cherries  to-day." 
Lan.,  Ad.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Sch.,  Phila.,  Wayne,  Cent.,  Bucks, 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  uf  doo;  Ger.  auf  thun. 
C.-O. 

Done  up.  All  gone ;  exhausted. 

"The  apples  are  done  up." 
Lan.,  Mif.,  Camb.,  Cum.,  Bucks.    . 
Cf.  eaten  up. 
C-O. 


374  Provincialisms  oj  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 

Doodle.  Small  pile  of  hay. 

"Throw  the  windrows  up  into  doodles." 
Mercer,  Bedford,  Ad. 
Not  given  in  Murray. 
C.-O. 

Dumb.  Slow-witted. 

"You  can't  teach  him  a  thing,  he's  that  dumb!" 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Sch.,  Cent.,  Mer. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  dum;  Ger.  dumm. 
C— Local  U.  S. 

Dress  around.  Change  clothes. 

"I  must  dress  around  before  I  go." 
Dau.,  Ad.,  Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Cum.,  Bucks, 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  rumshdripa;  Ger.  umziehen. 
C.-O. 

Dumbhead.  Dolt. 

"You're  spoiling  everything,  you  dumbhead!" 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Cen.,  Ad.,  Sch.,  Wayne,  Men,  Bucks, 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  dum  kiip;  Ger.  dummkopf. 

Hoover,  p.  62:  "You're  a  dumbhead,  that's  what  you  are;  any- 
body ought  to  know  that  there !" 
C.-O. 

DuNCY.  ^^      ^  Rather  stupid. 

"He's  a  duncy  fellow." 
Lan.,  Ad.,  Lack.,  Sch. 

Cf.  dauncy  =  slightly  sick  at  the  stomach. 
C.  gives  duncish. 

Expect.  ^^  Suppose. 

"I  expect  they  are  home  by  this  time." 
Lan.,  Dau.,  Cen.,  Bucks,  Ad. 
C. — Prov.  Eng.  and  local  U.  S. 

Falling  weather.  Rain  or  snow. 

"It's  clouding  up,  and  we'll  have  falling  weather  to-morrow." 
Lan.,  Sch.,  Leb.,  Dau.,  Y.,  Mif.,  Cum.,  Cent. 
C.-O. — Not  in  Murray. 
S. — Colloquial. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  375 

Fen-dubs.     (Dubs.)  No  double  shots;  in  marbles,  prohibiting 

player    from    gaining    more    than    one 
marble  by  a  single  shot. 

Lan.,  Y.,  Sch.,  Berks,  Camb. 
C. — Given  as  above. 

Fen-evers.  Everything  forbidden ;  used  in  playing  marbles, 

cuts  off  all  privileges. 

"Fen-evers!    You  can  go  around  or  get  two." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Sch.,  Mif. 

Query :  fr.  fen  [     Fr.  defendre]   -(-  everything. 
C. — See  fen-hext. 

Fen-hext.  No  charming.    Used  in  playing  marbles,  meaning 

that  your  opponent  must  not  make  a  cross  on 
the  ground  to  bewitch  you. 

"You  daren't  do  that ;  I  said  fen-hext." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Sch.,  Cen.,  Bucks, 
fr.  fen  or  fend,  and  Ger.  hexen,  to  bewitch. 
C.  gives  fen,  but  not  this  phrase. 

Filling.  Stuffing,  of  a  fowl. 

"I  want  some  chicken  and  some  more  -filling." 
Ad.,  Cent,  Y.,  Bucks,  Leb.,  Leh.,  Sch.,  Phila.,  Salem  Co.,  N.  J., 

and  Loudoun  Co.,  Va. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  iils'l;  Ger.  fullsel. 
C-O. 

Flitting.  Moving  (of  household  goods.) 

"There  goes  Jones'  Hitting." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Ches.,  Bed. 
C. — Scot,  and  Prov.  Eng. 
W.— Do. 

Frolic.  Gathering  of  neighbors  to  assist  at  some  work,  as 

raising  a  barn,  followed  by  a  feast  and  frolic. 

"They  had  a  big  frolic  when  that  ditch  was  dug." 
Lan.,  Bucks,  Cen.,  Mer.,  Ad.,  Leb. 
Used  by  Hoover,  p.  108. 
C.-O. 


376  Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 

Gad,  n.  A  run-about;  gossip.     (Usually  of  women.) 

"There  goes  that  good-for-nothing  gad." 
Lan.,  Sch.,  Dau..  Ad. 
Noun  formed  from  verb  of  same  meaning. 
C.-O. 

w.-o. 

S. — Same  as  gadabout. 
Get  shut  of.     [Cf.  shed  of.]  Get  rid  of. 

"I  have  more  apples  than  I'll  get  shut  of." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Bucks,  Berks,  Sch.,  Ches.,  Ad. 
(Used  in  Tennyson's  Northern  Farmer,  new  style.) 
C. — Prov.  Eng.  and  U.  S. 
W. — Local  Eng.  and  U.  S. 

Get  to  go.  Be  able  to  go. 

'T  don't  think  I'll  get  to  go  to-morrow." 
Lan.,  Ches.,  Mif.,  Bucks,  Y.,  Dau.,  Ad. 

C.  says  Coll.  Pa.,  but  I  have  had  it  reported  from  Canada,  Vir- 
ginia and  Illinois. 

GiVE.i  Yield  (of  crops). 

"My  orchard  will  give  fifty  bushels  this  year." 
Lan.,  Sch.,  Ches.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  gewa;  Ger.  geben. 
Cf.  give  rain. 
C. — Def.  3,  to  yield. 

GiVE.2  S2iy,  especially  in  phrase  below. 

"I  must  go  and  give  him  good-by." 

Lan..  Y.,  Sch.,  Mif.,  Ad. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  good-by  gezva. 

Cf.  "Seeing  they  were  wearie  ...  he  let  them  see  their  lodg- 
ing, and  so  gave  them  good-night. — Greene's  Menaphon,  Ed. 
Arber,  p.  33. 

C. — 3,  e,  defines  give  "to  utter." 

G1VE.3  Prove  to  be ;  turn  out  as. 

"He'll  give  a  good  doctor." 
Lan.,  Dau.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Cen.,  Bucks,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  idiom ;  also  Ger. 
C-O. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeaston  Pennsylvania  377 

Give  a  bow.  Make  a  bow. 

"I  gave  a  bozu  as  she  passed." 
Leb.,  Lan.,  Ches.,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  bow  geva;  Ger.  geben. 

Give  rain.  Rain. 

"I  think  it  will  give  rain  to-night." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Dau.,  Berks,  Y.,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  raya  geva;  Ger.  regcn  geben. 
"Give  snow,"  "give  hail,"  also  used. 
C.  refers  to  Grumbine. 

Glove.  Mitten ;  a  hand  covering  without  fingers. 

"She  knit  him  some  warm  gloves." 
Leb.,  Y.,  Cent. 
See  mitten. 
C.-O. 

Go.  Ring,  of  a  bell,  usually  in  pret.  tense. 

"Has  the  bell  gone  yet?" 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y  ,  Dau.,  Mif.,  Sch. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  ga. 

C. — Def.  24 :  "To  start  into  activity,"  but  not  this  phrase. 
W.-O. 
S. — Def.  17:  To  strike,  as  a  clock 

Go  DEAD.  Die.     (Used  of  persons  and  animals.) 

"His  horse  zvent  dead  last  night." 
Lan.,  Dau.,  Berks,  Bucks,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  dad  ga;  Ger.  todt  gehen 
C.-O. 

Goody.  Kernel  of  a  nut. 

"Crack  those  nuts  and  pick  out  the  goodies." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Dau.,  Per.  Sch.,  Ches 
C.  gives  as  sweetmeats  of  any  kind. 

Grouchy.  Ill-humored. 

"He's  so  grouchy  you  can't  stay  near  him." 
Query :  f r.  gnitch,  dial,  for  grudge 
C.-O. 


37^  Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 

Gust.  Thunder-storm. 

"I  was  kept  at  home  by  a  gust." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Ad. 
C.  defines  as  a  "sudden  squall." 

Hap.     (Pronounced  as  in  "happy.")  A  wadded  covering  for 

a  bed;  a  comfort. 

"She  put  a  blanket  and  a  hap  on  the  bed." 
Bed.,  Per.,  Mif.,  Camb.,  Blair. 
C. — Prov.  Eng.  and  Scotch. 
W.  defines  as  "cloak  or  plaid." 

Haul,  v.  int.  Bring  a  load. 

"I  think  I'll  haul  to  town  to-morrow." 
Lan.,  Montg.,  Dau.,  Berks. 
C.-O. 

Have  it.  To  suffer,  be  ill ;  always  with  part  affected. 

"She  had  it  in  the  head  very  bad." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Dau.,  Mif.,  Jun. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  idiom,  im  kup  hoiva;  also  Ger.  haben  =  to  ail. 
C.-O. 

Hex.  Witch,  or  a  general  term  of  reproach ;  hag. 

"The  old  hex  is  always  meddling  around." 
Lan.,  Bucks,  Cent.,  Ad.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Sch. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  hex;  Ger.  hexe. 
Hoover,  p.  113:  "Say,  Galsch,  you  old  hex  .    .    .  don't  you  go 

and  make  our  cows  give  bloody  milk." 
C.-O. 

HiCKLE.     (Rare.)  To  hop;  go  lame. 

"I  had  to  hickle  along  on  one  foot." 
Lan.,  Leb. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  hikla;  Ger.  hinkeln? 
"Hickle"  is  also  used  as  the  name  for  "hopscotch." 

Hike.     (Slang.)  Get  away  quickly;  usually  with  "out." 

"Hike  out  of  here  now,  right  quick !" 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Ad.,  Mif.,  Dau.,  Sch. 
C.-O. 
W.-O. 
S. — Prov.  Eng.  and  local  U.  S. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  379 

Homesick.  Homesickness  (only  in  phrase  given  below). 

"I  have  homesick  so  bad  I  can't  sleep." 
("Have  the  homesick"  is  also  used.) 
Dau.,  Lan.,  Y.,  Ad. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  hamwa  howa;  Ger.  Heivnweh  haben. 
C.-O. 

Hook  up.  Hitch ;  also  to  put  on  harness  and  hitch. 

"Hook  up  the  horses  to  haul  hay." 
Lan.,  Dau.,  Sch.,  Y.,  Mif.,  Berks,  Ad. 
C.-O. 

Hootch,  or  Hootch y,  Colt. 

"There's  the  old  mare  and  the  hootchy." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Mif.,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  hutschli,  an  imitative  word. 
C.-O. 

Horn,  v.  To  hook,  to  strike  with  the  horns. 

"That  cow  will  horn  you  yet." 
Dau.,  Lan.,  Leb.,  Hunt.,  Sch.,  Mif.,  Ad. 
Verb  from  noun ;  cf .  huh. 
C.-O. 
S. — Colloquial. 

How  ABOUT.     (Rare.)  How  are  you?     (As  a  salutation.) 

"How  about  you  this  morning?" 
Query:  fr.  Ger.  Wie  geht  es  hei  Ihnen?    Pa.  Ger.  same  idiom. 
Lan.,  Dau.,  Bucks,  Sch.,  Mont. 
C.-O. 

Hub,  v.  Graze  with  the  hub. 

"Look  out  or  you'll  huh  that  post." 
Lan.,  Bucks. 

Verb  formed  from  noun ;  cf.  horn. 
C-O. 

HuDDER.     (Rare.)  Cap  sheaf. 

"That  shock  of  wheat  will  get  wet  unless  it  has  a  hudder  on  it." 
Lan.,  Cent.,  Ad. 
C-O. 


380  Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania 

HuMMY.  Little  Calf. 

"That's  my  hummy  there  by  the  red  cow." 
Lan.,  Y.,  Leb.,  Dau.,  Berks,  Sch.,  Ad. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  homili;  prob.  connected  with  Ger.  hummel,  a  young 
bull  (colloq.). 

c.-o. 

Ink-licker. 

who  earns  a  living  otherwise  than 
by  manual  labor. 
"He  wants  to  get  a  place  as  ink-licker  in  some  store." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Berks. 
Used  by  Hoover,  p.  23 :  "Fred  Ruthvon  is  making  an  ink-licker 

of  his  boy  instead  of  bringing  him  up  to  the  plow  ..." 
C.-O. 

Jacket.  Vest ;  waistcoat. 

"He  took  oflf  his  coat  and  his  jacket." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Ches.,  Sch.,  Mif.,  Y.,  Cum.,  Dau.,  Bucks, 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  jacket  =  waistcoat.     The  English  work  has  been 

adopted  and  used  in  this  sense,  then  it  finds  its  way  back 

into  English  with  its  new  meaning. 
C. — Local  U.  S. 

Jag,  n.  Small  load. 

"We  brought  a  jag  of  hay  along." 
Mif.,  Y.,  Lan.,  Bucks,  Cum. 
C— Prov.  Eng.  and  U.  S. 

Leaven  (lev'n).  Allow;  let. 

"Leaven  me  see  your  book." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Berks,  Lack.,  Sch. 
C.  gives  leave  with  this  meaning,  but  not  leaven. 

Let.  Allow  to  remain. 

"Let  your  books  here  when  you  go." 
Lan.,  Dau.,  Bucks,  Y.,  Mif.,  Sch.,  Leb.,  Ches. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  lusd,  Ger.  lassen,  which  in  both  languages  is  used 

for  let  and  leave. 
C— Obs. 

Liken  (v.)  or  Like.  To  be  likely. 

"I  likened  to  die  of  cold  last  week." 
Lan.,  Ad.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Cent. 
C.  gives  like  in  this  sense,  rare. 


Provincialisms  of  Southeastern  Pennsylvania  381 

Lock  open.  Unlock. 

"Lock  the  door  open.    I  want  to  come  in." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Ad.,  Y. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  ufshlesa;  Ger.  aufschliessen. 
C.-O. 

Listen  on.  Listen  to. 

"Just  listen  on  him !" 
Dau.,  Lan.,  Leb.,  Ad. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger  ufhard  or  awhard;  Ger.  anhoren. 
C.-O. 

Loss,  V.  Lose. 

"Be  careful  of  that  or  you'll  loss  it." 
Lan.,  Leh.,  Westmd.,  Mer.,  Ad. 

Verb  formed  from  noun,  or  merely  a  mispronunciation? 
C.-O. 

Loud,  v.  i.  To  sound. 

"That  music  doesn't  loud  pretty  to  me." 
Lan.,  Dau.,  Ad. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  laivda,  not  in  Home;  Ger.  lauten. 
Used  also  of  the  thought,  as:  "Don't  say  such  things;  it  louds 

badly." 
C.-O. 

Make.i  Do. 

"What  did  you  make,  that  you  tore  your  coat  so  ?" 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Ad. 

fr.  Pa.  Ger.  tvos  mochst;  Ger.  machen. 
C. — Archaic ;  quotes  F.  Q.  VII,  6,  25. 

Make.2  Prepare,  especially  by  cooking. 

"She  made  a  beefsteak  for  breakfast." 
Lan.,  Leb.,  Y.,  Dau.,  Ch.,  Montg.,  Ad. 
fr.  Pa.  Ger.  mocha;  so  used. 
C.,  I,  5,  gives  prepare,  as  to  prepare  a  feast;  but  here  the  use  is 

somewhat  different. 
"His  daughter,  a  very  pleasing  young  lady,  made  breakfast." — 

Boswell,  "Tour  to  the  Hebrides,"  Thursday,  Aug.  19. 
"And  he  also  had  made  savory  meat." — Genesis,  27:31. 

(To  be  Continued.) 


REVIEWS. 

Geschichte  des  IVeinhaus  unicr  hesonderer  Beriicksichtigung  der 
Bayerischen  Rheinpfalz  von  Dr.  Friedrich  Bassermann- Jordan. 
1907 :  Frankfurt  am  Main.  Heinrich  Keller.    3  Bde.    M.  30. 

In  three  large  volumes,  numbering  in  all  962  pages,  Dr.  Basser- 
mann-Jordan  has  contributed  the  most  complete,  searching  and  in- 
teresting account  of  European  grape  culture  with  special  reference 
to  the  Rhine  Palatinate,  that  has  so  far  been  undertaken  by  one  in- 
dividual. The  nature  of  the  subject  compelled  the  author  to  go  be- 
yond the  confines  of  present-day  Germany.  The  contributions  of 
the  Romans,  who  really  brought  the  knowledge  of  grape  culture  to 
the  north,  are  duly  considered.  The  work  is  tastefully  illustrated  by 
140  cuts  and  20  charts.  It  is  beautifully  printed  and  attractively 
bound.  Numerous  footnotes  bespeak  the  painstaking  method  of  the 
writer.  A  most  valuable  bibliography  is  appended  to  the  last  volume 
covering  forty  pages  and  dealing  with  the  entire  range  of  the  subject 
in  hand.  In  contrast  with  many  German  books  this  work  contains  a 
very  full  index  and  table  of  contents. 

The  work  is,  in  a  measure,  a  labor  of  love.  Dr.  Bassermann- 
Jordan  is  a  resident  of  Deidesheim,  of  which  city  his  brother,  Dr. 
Ludwig  Bassermann-Jordan  is  Burgomaster.  Deidesheim  figures 
prominently  in  this  treatise,  a  distinction  which  it  is  duly  entitled  to, 
as  the  Rhine  Palatinate  is  in  fact  the  cradle  of  the  now  highly 
developed  industry  of  wine  culture  in  Germany. 

The  scope  of  the  work  is  perhaps  best  comprehended  in  an  epi- 
tome of  its  contents.  Under  the  caption  of  "History  of  the  Spread 
and  Development  of  Wine  Culture"  the  following  subheads  are 
treated:  i.  The  "Urrebe,"  when  it  is  shown  that  the  grape-vine  is  in- 
digenous to  many  climes  and  that  former  claims  of  certain  scholars 
that  the  grape-vine  came  from  the  Orient  is  unfounded.  It  is  granted, 
however,  that  the  knowledge  of  the  treatment  and  improvement  of 
the  plant  and  its  fruit  came  from  the  East.  2.  The  grape-vine  was 
known  in  prehistoric  times  but  the  region  where  the  discovery  of 
its  usefulness  was  made,  cannot  be  determined  with  accuracy.  3. 
Caesar's  appearance  in  Gaul  was  an  event  of  great  moment,  for  from 
(382) 


Reviews  383 

the  Romans  the  northern  races  became  acquainted  with  the  cultivated 
vine.  4.  According  to  Tacitus,  agriculture  and  horticulture  were 
undeveloped  among  the  Germans  in  the  first  century  of  our  era.  It 
was  Emperor  Probus  (276-282)  who  really  brought  the  knowledge 
of  cultivating  the  grape  to  the  Rhine  region.  The  author  traces,  in 
an  illuminating  manner,  the  development  of  this  industry  from  the 
decline  of  the  Roman  supremacy  to  the  present  day. 

In  the  second  volume  of  the  work  Dr.  Bassermann-Jordan  treats 
historically  these  themes :  The  tillage  of  the  vineyard,  Vintage,  Im- 
plements employed  in  the  vineyard,  Wine-press,  Species  of  grapes, 
Other  plants  besides  the  grape  in  the  vineyard,  Treatment  of  wine. 
In  the  same  volume  he  discusses  the  hindrances  to  grape  culture,  that 
have  existed  and  may  still  obtain.  The  most  serious  check  is  man 
himself,  who  either  by  the  devastation  of  war,  wanton  destruction, 
limitation  of  agriculture,  trade  and  traffic,  duties  on  wine  or  by  adul- 
terations retards  the  wine  industry.  A  second  hindrance  is  discussed 
under  the  heading  "Rebeschadlinge."  Here  the  destruction  caused 
by  animals,  insects,  blight,  mildew  rot,  etc.,  is  carefully  treated. 

No  less  interesting  are  the  descriptions,  amplified  by  illustrations, 
of  various  vessels  used  for  storing  wine,  drinking  cups  and  wine- 
vaults.  The  cost  of  wine  production,  the  various  species  of  grape- 
vines, areas  taken  up  by  vineyards  and  their  yield  are  then  considered 
in  detail. 

The  third  volume  contains  among  other  things  a  record  by  years 
of  the  weather  conditions  conducive  or  unfavorable  to  the  production 
of  wine,  dating  with  greater  or  smaller  gaps  back  to  the  year  91 
A.  D.  Wine  prices  are  treated  in  a  separate  chapter  as  are  also  the 
topics  of  the  traffic  and  consumption  of  wine. 

The  entire  treatise  is  historical.  The  sources  are  carefully  cited 
and  varying  opinions  are  duly  noted.  It  is  a  stupendous  undertaking 
to  get  to  the  bed  rock  of  the  truth  in  the  study  of  an  industry  that 
has  played  such  an  important  role  in  the  civilization  of  the  human 
race.  While  the  author  deals  particularly  with  the  industry  of  the 
Rhine  Palatinate,  he  does  not  fail  to  do  justice  to  every  other  wine- 
growing region  of  Germany. 

The  work  is  a  monumental  contribution  to  the  economic  history 
of  Germany  and  should  find  a  host  of  readers  in  America. 

Wm.  G.  Bek. 


Addenda. 

Inasmuch  as  the  Jordan  family,  to  which  the  author  of  the 
above-noted  Geschichte  des  Wcinhaus  belongs,  has  been  engaged  in 
grape  culture  at  Deidesheim  since  1773,  it  will  interest  our  readers 
to  learn  that  the  brother  of  our  author,  Dr.  Ludwig  Bassermann- 
Jordan,  Burgomaster  of  Deidesheim,  was  one  of  the  jurors  at  the 
St.  Louis  Exposition  in  1904.  He  is  also  both  a  scholar  and  a  man  of 
affairs,  having,  with  fine  historic  intinct  and  taste,  revived  the  old 
customs  of  the  vintage  season  on  his  paternal  estates,  with  the  cos- 
tumes and  festivities  of  an  earlier  period  and  even  himself  written 
vintage  songs  for  such  occasions.  After  his  return  from  America 
he  joined  the  "Stars  and  Stripes"  to  the  colors  of  the  Pfalz  in  the 
vintage  season  of  that  year,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  accompanying 
illustration  representing  the  Burgomaster  and  his  vintagers  in  festal 
array. 

The  region  of  Deidesheim  is  the  garden  spot  of  grape  culture 
in  the  Rhenish  Palatinate  and  some  of  the  best  of  this  grape  land  is 
found  in  the  Bassermann-Jordan  estates.  One  who  has  had  the 
pleasure  of  enjoying  the  hospitality  and  the  sparkling  wines  of  Dei- 
desheim must  wonder  that  our  American  importers  do  not  give 
more  expression  to  their  admiration  for  the  "Pfalz"  by  offering 
their  patrons  more  of  the  delicious  wines  of  the  Haardt,  particularly 
as  the  firm  of  Hammell  in  Neustadt  and  Giessen  of  Deidesheim 
export  directly  to  American  houses.  Historically  Deidesheim  has 
many  points  of  interest  for  Americans,  both  of  German  and  English 
descent.  It  was  in  this  region  that  the  scenes  of  Cooper's  novel 
Heidenmauer  were  laid.  The  old  castle  and  monastery  and  the  Hei- 
denmauer  itself  are  still  standing  as  monuments  of  the  fierce  but 
romantic  past.  The  efforts  of  the  Bassermann-Jordan  family,  es- 
pecially of  Dr.  Ludwig  and  Dr.  Friedrich  Bassermann-Jordan,  and 
of  the  venerable  archaeologist  Dr.  Mehlis  have  done  much  to  keep 
alive  an  intelligent  interest  in  the  historical  importance  of  this  pic- 
turesque region.  This  interest  was  expressed  in  the  Exhibition  held 
in  Neustadt  in  the  year  1903,  when  a  fine  display  was  made  of 
articles  illustrating  the  manners,  customs  and  industries  of  the 
Palatinate. —  [The  Edi  or.] 
(384) 


0"ln    o 


W    3 


(D 


2  p   o 


-1  B 

■  n  2 

To  w 


D3  a 


?^  > 

a>  3    X 

O  > 

"^^    :i. 

o  i:  ^ 
o  ^  > 


0732 


3   1198  05117  4048 


N/ina/D5117/MDMflX 


