Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  general ions  on  library  shelves  before  il  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

Il  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  diflicult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parlies,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  plus  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  b<x>k  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 

countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  il  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  hooks  while  helping  authors  ami  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  I  lie  lull  text  of  this  book  on  I  lie  web 
at|http  :  //books  .  qooqle  .  com/| 


^CWXA^A        K.^V^^-^ 


^?   cw^    v      l^*. 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


^J^ 


GESTA  ROMANORUM: 

OR, 

ENTERTAINING  MORAL  STORIES ; 

IKVESiTED    BT    THK   MOXKS  AS  A  FIRESIDE    RECREATION,   AND  COMMONLT  APPLIED    Of 
THEIR   DISCOURSES  FEOM  THE  PULPIT:  WHENCE  THE  MOOT  CELEBRATED 
OP  OUR  OWK   POETS  AND   OTHERS.  PROM   THE   EARLIEST 
TIMES,   HAVE  EXTRACTED  THEIR  PLOTS. 

TRANSLATED   FROM    THE    LATIN,    WITH 
PRELIMINARY   OBSERVATIONS   AND   COPIOUS   NOTES, 


BY   THE   REV.   CHARLES   SWAN. 


REVISED   AND    CORRECTED   BT 

WYNNARD   HOOPER,   M.A. 

Clare  College,  Cambridge. 


*  They"  [the  Monks]  "might  be  disposed  occasionally  to  recreate  their 
minds  with  subjects  of  a  light  and  amusing  nature;  and  what  couM  be 
more  innocent  or  delightful  than  the  stories  of  the  Gesta  Romanorum  ? " 

Douce's  Illuttrationt  of  Shakespeare. 


LONDON: 

GEORGE    BELL  &   SONS,  YORK    ST.,  COVENT    GARDEN, 

AND  NEW  YORK. 
1894. 


566089 


{Reprinted  from  Stereotype  Plates.) 


•  • 


•  •     • 

•    •• 
'•  •    •  • 
•  •  •  •  • 
•  •  •      • 


•  • 


»  » 


•  _ » 


LONDON  :   PRINTED  BT    WILLIAM  CLOWE*  AM»  W>S8,   LIMITED, 
KfAMKOKI)   STICK  KT   AM)   CHAICIMi    CKOK8. 


PKEFACE. 


It  is  somewhat  remarkable  that,  in  spite  of  the  great 
interest  attaching  to  the  Gesta  Romanoritm,  as  the  most 
popular  story  book  of  the  Middle  Ages,  and  as  the  source  of 
much  literature  in  that  and  later  times,  no  English  version 
of  it  should  have  appeared  until  1824,  when  a  translation 
was  published  in  two  volumes  by  the  Rev.  C.  Swan.  Mr. 
Swan,  though  hia  translation  was  in  many  respects  faulty, 
kept  to  the  original  with  tolerable  fidelity,  and  only 
deliberately  tampered  with  the  test  once  j  namely,  in  alter- 
ing the  termination  of  Talc  XXVIII.,  because  he  considered 
that  the  story,  as  it  stood,  did  not  afford  a  good  "  moral." 
He  very  often  paraphrased ;  and  where  the  Latin  con- 
tained too  bald  a  statement  of  facts,  he  considered  himself 
justified  in  amplifying  the  narrative.  But  this  can  hardly 
be  objected  to.  The  stories  are  often  told  so  carelessly 
that  a  translator  is  bound  to  add  something  in  his  render- 
ing to  make  them  express  what  they  were  intended  to 
convey  to  the  reader.  An  English  version  of  a  work  like 
the  Gesta  Somanorum  should  certainly  not  be  a  literal 
translation. 

The  present  edition  is  a  reprint  of  Mr.  Swan's,  with 
considerable  corrections  and  alterations.  Whenever  Mr. 
Swan  only  expanded  the  Latin  in  his  translation  so  as  to 
express  what  was  really  implied  in  the  original,  I  have  left 
his  rendering  untouched.     But  I  have  expunged  whatever 


was  an  unnecessary  departure  from  the  text.  On  the 
other  hand,  Mr.  Swan  had  occasionally  omitted  sentonces 
of  importance;  these  have  been  restored  to  the  text  in 
the  present  edition.  Mistakes  in  translation,  of  which 
there  are  more  than  might  havo  been  expected,  have,  of 
t,  been  corrected. 

notes  are  sometimes  erroneous  and 
occasionally  pointless.  With  regard  to  the  former  class,  I 
have  generally  allowed  them  to  stand,  and  added  a  cor- 
rection of  the  mistakes.  Notes  of  the  latter  class  I  havo 
nitted,  and  those  so  treated  will  not,  I  think, 
nissed  by  the  reader.  The  most  valuable  part  of  Mr. 
a  his  quotations  from,  other  authors 
illustrative  of  the  text,  in  selecting  which  he  showed  more 
judgment  than  in  the  actual  work  of  translation ;  but  it  is 
throughout  evident  that  his  knowledge  of  English  litera- 
ture, or,  at  all  events,  of  writers  about  English  literature, 
was  greater  than  his  acquaintance  with  either  Latin  or 
Greek. 

A  great  deal  has  been  done,  since  Mr.  Swan  wrote, 
towards  settling  the  vexed  questions  relative  to  the  genesis 
of  the  Gfesta.  Sir  Frederick  Madden,  in  his  work  on  the 
old  English  versions  of  the  Getta,  did  a  good  deal  towards 
solving  the  problem.  But  the  book  which  has  dealt  with 
the  subject  in  the  most  thorough  and  satisfactory  manner 
is  the  work  of  a  painstaking  German,  Herr  Hermann 
Oesterley.*  It  is  little  known  in  England.  The  British 
only  possesses  tho  first  part ;  tho  authorities 
apparently  not  thinking  it  worth  while  to  obtain  the 
remainder,  when,  it  was  not  spontaneously  offered  them  by 
the  bookseller,  perhaps  because  no  one  ever  asked  for  the 
work.  The  leaves  of  the  first  part  were  not  even  cut  till 
recently.  Considering  the  value  of  Herr  Oesterley's  book, 
its  absence,  except  in  an  incomplete  state,  from  the  shelves 
•  Getta  Bomanorian,  voo  H.  Oesterley.    Berlin,  1872. 


of  our  groat  national  library  is  strange.     There  is  a  com- 
plete copy  in  the  University  Library,  Cambridge. 

It  is  impossible  to  do  more  here  than  to  give  a  brief 
resume  of  Herr  Oesterley's  conclusions  regarding  the  Gesla. 
To  go  into  bis  proofs,  except  in  the  merest  outline,  would 
be  to  reproduce  hia  book,  for  it  contains  nothing  whatever 
but  what  is  strictly  relevant  to  the  matter  in  hand.  Those 
who  are  acquainted  with  the  subject  will  be  aware  how 
obscure  and  perplexing  it  is.  Mr.  Swan's  Introduction, 
though  rather  vague  and  rambling,  ia  worth  studying. 
It  contains  soma  valuable  conjectures,  which  subsequent 
inquiry  has  shown  to  bo  sound.  Warton's  "Dissertation 
on  the  Gesta  Romanurum"  (Uisl.  of  English  Poetry* 
vol.  i.  p.  exxxix.),  as  being  the  earliest  attempt  to 
arrive  at  definite  conclusions  as  to  the  origin  of  this 
collection  of  stories,  in  worth  rending,  apart  from  the 
deservedly  high  authority  of  its  author.  But  its  in. 
adequacy  was  obvious  even  to  Warton's  contemporaries. 
Donee's  "Dissertation"  (TUmti-iiihiix  nf  8/ttikcnpcare,  p.  516) 
ie  a  really  useful  piece  of  work.  Although  mistaken  in. 
several  points,  his  remarks  are  always  acute  and  valuable  ; 
and  he  called  attention  to  the  importance  of  a  thorough 
examination  of  the  MSS,  contained  in  the  libraries  of 
the  Continent,  with  a  view  to  discovering,  if  possible,  the 
origin  of  the  Genta.  "  It  is  a  fact,"  he  says,  "  as  remark- 
able as  the  obscurity  which  exists  concerning  the  author  of 
the  Gesla,  that  no  manuscript  of  this  work,  that  can  with 
certainty  be  pronounced  as  such,  has  hitherto  been 
described.  If  the  vaBt  stores  of  manuscripts  that  are  con- 
tained in  the  monastic  and  other  libraries  of  Germany, 
Switzerland,  Italy,  and  Spain,  were  examined,  there  is 
rcely  a  doubt  that  some  original  of  a  work  so  often 
luted  would  be  discovered."  Donee's  expectations  have 
q  falsified  by  the  result  of  Herr  Oesterley's  investiga- 
*  Taylor's  edition,  ia  three  volumes.     1810. 


tions  in  this  very  field.  It  is  now  clearly  ascertained  that 
no  MS.  corresponding  to  the  printed  collection  of  stories 
known  as  the  (Jutta  llama-riorum,  exists. 

Before  laying  before  the  reader  a  snecinct  account  of 
the  facta  relative  to  the  Gesta  with  which  Herr  Oesterley 's 
work  supplies  us,  it  is  necessary  to  say  that  what  is  known 
par  excellence  am  tho  Gesta  Romanorum  is  a  collection  of 
181  stories,  first  printed  about  1473,  and  that  this  is  the 
collection  of  which  the  present  edition  is  a  translation. 
Bnt  before  the  appearance  of  this  collection  there  existed 
a  great  number  of  MSS.  all  over  Western  Europe,  no  two 
of  which  exactly  resembled  each  other.  I  shall  now  give 
pome  details,  chieSy  obtained  from  Herr  Oesterley,  concern- 
ing both  printed  editions  and  MSS. 

I.  Printed  editions. 

A.  The  editio  primceps,  printed  in  folio  by  Ketelaer  and 
De  Leempt,  at  Utrecht.  Date  uncertain.  It  con- 
tains 150  (not  152,  as  Douce  erroneously  says") 
chapters,  t 

(«)  A  second  edition  of  the-  cdilui  pririwps,  printed 
by  Arnold  Ter  Hoenen,  at  Cologne.  Date  un- 
certain.    It  contains  151  chapters. 

B.  The  Vulgate  (vnlgartext),  or  second  editio  princeps, 
printed  by  Ulrich  Zell,  at  Cologne.  Date  uncertain. 
It  contains  181  chapters. 

Subsequent  to  the  Vulgate  numerous  editions  were 
printed  resembling  it  in  all  essentials. 

I  There  is  no  doubt,  according  to  Herr  Oesterley,  that  all 
three  editions  [A,  (<t),  &  B]  appeared  betwoen  14/2  and 
14754  He  has  adopted  A  and  B  as  his  text;  A  for 
the  first  150  chapters  (except  chapter  13,  which  is  found 


lUiatratiorui,  &a„  p.  533.     See  Oeetertey,  p.  26fi, 
In   discussi'ins    on     Lhr-    Grslu     Itmitutwrum    tbe    reader    must 
remember  that  "  cbapter  "  =  "  story."  J  Oesterley,  p.  2<*7. 


only  in  E),  and  E  for  the  remainder.*  His  text  therefore 
reproduces  the  two  editiones  prineipes,  if  such  an  expression 
is  not  a  solecism. 

C.  Various  editions  in  English,  basod  on  Iho  Ijatin  MSH. 
of  English  origin.  Thoy  contain  usually  44  chapter*. 
but  sometimes  43,  and  once  58.  A  fow  examplm 
will  suffice. 

1(a)  Printed  by  Wynkyn  de  Wordc,  in  munll  4t«., 
at   London,   date    uncertain.      It  contain!  43 
chapters,  and  is  a  translation  of    MH.    Hurl, 
5369.t     In  the  library  of  St.  John'*  Collude, 
Cambridge. 
(6)  Printed    in     London,     1C48.        Contain*    44 
chapters. 
(c)  London,  1689.     44  chapters. 
(d)  London  [1722?].  58 chapter!  (British  Muiwiim, 
1456a). 
These  editions  all  have  some  stories  in  common  with  tlin 
Vnlgate,  together  with  many  which  arc  peculiar  •/)  llnin 
selves.     I  may  remark  that  Wynkyn  da  Worde's  edition 
(a)  is  the  only  instance  we  have  of  a  printed  copy  exactly 
corresponding  to  a  MS.  of  the  Geata. 

II.    Manuscripts. 

The  MSS.  of  the  Geata  fall  natnrally  into  throe  jfrouj™, 
or  families,  as  Heir  Oesterloy  calls  them.  J 

A.  The  English  group;  written  in  Latin.  Of  tbi*  thn 
best  representative  is  MS.  Harl.  2270;  date,  fifteenth 
century.  It  contains  102  chapter!,  of  which  72  an: 
found  in  the  Vnlgate. §  This  is  tins  group  which 
Mr.  Doace||  calls  the  "English  Oust*,"  and  which 
he  and  others  have  maintained  to  hare  been  com- 


piled  in  imitation  of  the  "  Original  Geata,"  i.e.  the 
Gesta  represented  by  the  set  of  manuscripts  (C) 
which  supplied  the  Vulgate. 

B.  Group  of  Latin  and  German  MSS.  This  family  is 
best  represented  by  an  edition  in  German,  printed  by 
John  Schopser,  at  Angsburg,  in  1489.* 

0.  A  group  represented  bi/  the  Vulgate.  The  MSS.  of 
this  group  have  been  greatly  influenced  by  one 
another,  and  by  entirely  distinct  collections  of 
stories ;  t  particularly  by  Robert  Holkot's  MoralUates. 
Stories  from  Gervase  of  Tilbury  appear  in  some  of 
the  younger  MSS.  of  this  group. J  This  group  con- 
stitutes what  Douce  calls  the  "  Original  Gesta." 

I  have  here  given  as  concise  a  statement  as  possible  of 
a  great  multiplicity  of  facts.  The  diversity  existing  among 
the  MSS.  known  in  England,  and  their  apparent  want 
of  connection  with  the  printed  editions,  gave  rise  to  the 
theory,  upheld  by  Mr.  Douce  and  combated  by  Mr. 
Swan  and  others,  that  there  were  two  distinct  collections 
of  stories  called  Gesta  Rumanorum,  one  of  German,  the 
other  of  English  origin.  The  early  appearance  of  the 
Gesta  in  England,  the  fact  that  the  Vulgate  was  only 
printed  on  the  Continent,  as  well  as  the  local  colour- 
ing of  certain  of  the  stories,  were  held  to  prove  that 
shortly  after  the  compilation  of  the  "Original  Gesta"  in 
Germany,  a  similar  set  of  stories  was  composed  in  imita- 
tion of  it  in  England.  That  no  copy  of  the  "English  Gesta" 
printed  appeared  as  strange  as  the  fact  that  no  MS. 
of  the  Vulgate  had  ever  been  found.  As  remarked  above, 
Mr.  Douce  fully  expected  that  a  careful  search  in  the 
libraries  of  the  Continent  would  reveal  the  missing  MS. 

Herr  Oesterley's  investigations  appear  to  show  con- 
clusively that,  though  there  were  not  two  Gestas,  in  the 

Oenterlej,  pp.  1,  245         f  ^'^  PI'  24:,,  246.        I  Rid.  p.  253. 


«enae  intended  by  Douce,  yet  there  u  a  considerable  differ 
ence  between  the  MSS.  of  England  and  of  the  Continent, 
and  between  each  of  theso  and  the  printed  Vulgate.  He 
is  of  opinion  that  the  Gesta  was  originally  compiled  in 
England;  that  it  rapidly  passed  to  the  Continent;  was 
then  considerably  altered,  by  additions  and  corruptions; 
and  that,  on  the  invention  of  printing,  an  edition  (A)  con- 
taining 150  stories,  selected  by  the  editors,  as  they  thought 
best,  was  issued.  Shortly  after,  an  enlarged  edition 
(Bj  m  issned.  This  last  is  the  Vulgate.  Neither  A 
nor  B  was  a  reproduction  of  any  one  MS. ;  und  they  were 
both  compiled  from  MSS.  belonging  to  group  C.  It  is 
easy  to  understand  why  the  "  English  Gesta  "  was  never 
printed.  The  Vulgate  appeared  in  England  before  there 
was  time  to  commence  printing  an  edition  of  the  Geeta 
from  the  MSS.  of  the  English  group,  and  being  much 
larger  than  even  the  best  of  these  (Harl.  22/0,  above 
referred  to),  speedily  got  possession  of  the  field,  and 
rendered  it  superfluous  to  produce  another  Gesta,  Pro- 
liably  not  one  man  in  ten  thousand  would  know  of  the 
existence  of  MSS.  containing  stories  not  in  the  Vulgate. 
Anil  when  Wyntyn  de  Worde  printed  his  edition  (1510-— 
1515)  a  need  for  an  English  version  had  arisen,  which  he 
mot  by  printing  a  complete  translation  of  one  of  the  MSS. 
of  the  English  group  (see  p.  ix.). 

Herr  Oesterley  admits  *  that  it  is  possible  that  the 
Gesta  was  originally  compiled  in  Germany,  and  thence 
carried  to  England,  and  enlarged  by  the  addition  of 
specially  English  stories,  while  in  Germany  a  process  of 
growth  was  also  going  on.  But  he  thinks  that  the 
balance  of  probability  is  in  favour  of  the  view  which 
places  the  home  of  the  Gesta  in  England.  He  considers 
that  the  names  of  the  dogs  in  Tale  CXLTI.  are  distinctly 
English ;  +  and  that  the  German  proverb  in  the  moraliza- 


"  Oesterlny,  p.  2GG.  f  **  P-  264. 


; 


111  PREFACE. 

tie-n  of  Tale  CXLIV.,  on  which  so  much  stress  has  been  laid 
by  the  believers  in  the  German  origin  of  the  Gesta,  is  an 
addition  made  by  tbe  editors  of  the  printed  copies,  as  is 
clear  from  an  inspection  of  the  MSS.* 

Herr  Oesterley's  conclusions  as  to  the  author  of  the 
Gesta  are  purely  negative.  The  theory  which  assigns  the 
authorship  to  Berchorins,  the  prior  of  St.  Eloi  (Pierre 
Bercheur),  he  treats  as  quite  unproved.  The  only  other 
claimant  put  forward  is  Helinand;  Herr  Oesterley  decides 
against  him  also,  and  the  matter  is  left  as  incapable  of 
settlement,  f 

Herr  Oeaterley  is  of  opinion  that  the  Gesta,  was  com- 
piled towards  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century.  It  has  been 
urged  that  the  collection  cannot  have  appeared  before  the 
death  of  Robert  Holkot  (1349),  since  a.  series  of  stories 
found  in  the  Gesta  are  taken  from  his  MoralUafes.  But 
even  supposing  these  stories  were  first  made  known  by 
Holkot,  this  can  only  be  used  to  prove  that  the  MSS.  of 
the  Gesta  which  contain  them  were  written  since  1349,  not 
that  the  Gesta  was  not  originally  compiled  much  earlier.J 
Herr  Oesterley  also  urges  the  fact  that  the  MSS.  had,  as 
early  as  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth  century,  become  suffi- 
ciently diversified,  by  a  natural  process  of  differentiation,  as 
to  group  themselves  into  the  three  families  mentioned  above,  § 
as  a  proof  that  the  first  or  primitive  MS.  cannot  have 
appeared  later  than  the  early  part  of  the  fourteenth  century, 
i'or  some  time  must  have  elapsed  before  so  great  a  diversity 
could  have  arisen.     Moreover,  Herr  Oesterley  mentions  a 

IMS.  written  in  1326,  which  is  obviously,  from  the  corrup- 
tions of  words,  and  especially  of  proper  names,  a  copy  of 
Borne  earlier  edition.|| 
Herr  Oesterley's  views  as  to  the  origin  of  the  Gesta  are 
I 


*  Oesterley,  p.  2G2.         t  Ibid,  pp.  254,  255.        %  Ibid,  p.  256. 
§  Ibid.  p.  2B7.     "  Von  jeder  lamilic  ist  una  TnindeBtena  et'n  codei 
«lie  dii  mitte  des  14  jahrbuiidcrta  crlmltcn,"  and  the  rest  of  tha  pa^o. 
i  Ibid.  pp.  257  and  lid. 


PREFACE. 

necessarily  only  conjecture:!,  but  as  such  they  are  of  con- 
siderable value.  Ho  thinks  that  at  some  early  period  there 
were  collections  of  stories  taken  from  Roman  history  in 
actual  use  as  texts  for  sermons ;  *  and  that  these  stories 
«ere  then  put  together  for  the  express  purpose  of  being 
moralized,  and  finally  appeared  under  the  title  of  Oe«ta 
Rmanorum  Moralizata,  or  something  similar.f  Whether 
this  first  compilation  was  entirely  composed  of  classical 
stories,  or  contained  some  of  more  modern  date  as  well,  it 
is  impossible  to  say. J  What  we  now  know  as  the  Genta 
I  Smtuumem  arose  from  the  moralizing  of  this,  or  some 
similar  work,  after  it  had  been  enlarged  by  the  addition  of 
a  considerable  number  of  stories  relating  to  later  times. 
It  would  be  easy  to  circulate  a  collection  of  stories  nnder 
the  name  of  the  "  Gests  of  the  Romans  "  among  a  people 
«hose  ideas  of  history  were  as  limited  as  those  of  our  fore- 
fathers in  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries,  even  though 
it  had  not  contained  a  single  word  about  Rome.  The  inten- 
tion of  the  original  authors  of  the  Gesta  was  to  provide 
tests  for  moral  izations.  The  stories  themselves  were  of 
secondary  importance.  Very  often  in  the  MSS.  the  first 
"ords  of  some  well-known  story  appear  at  the  commence- 
ment of  a  chapter,  and  then  the  moralization  follows 
immediately.  In  many  of  the  older  copies  some  of  the 
•lories  liave  spaces  left  after  them  for  the  moralization, 
the  writer  presumably  intending  to  add  it  subsequently.  § 
It  is  not  till  a  very  late  period  that  the  stories  become  tin: 
more  important  part,  and  the  moralization  recedes  into  the 
laekground.||  Herr  Oesterley  is  very  severe  on  Grasse's 
rash  statement  that  the  English  MSS.,  which  are  mostly 
Krly  ones,  have,  as  a  rule,  no  moralizations.Tf 

At  the  risk  of  being  accused  of  undue  repetition,  I  shall 


Oeitetloy.  p.  WO. 

t  lhid.  p.  2G1. 

lhid.  p.  lei. 

S  Ibid,  p.  26t. 

li  Hid.  p.  2 

Ibid.  (V  Se2.     Grin 

e.  Gkta  JbnMnerem 

ii.  SOS. 

recapitulate  the  results  of  Herr  Oesterley's  labours,  which 
have  been  set  forth  in  the  pages  of  this  preface.  The  Gcata 
was  originally  composed  in  England,  whence  it  rapidly 
passed  to  the  Continent,  at  the  end  of  the  thirteenth 
century.  By  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth  century  there 
were  three  distinct  families  of  MSS.  of  the  Oesta.  Waen 
printing  was  invented,  one  of  these  groups  (C)  was,  so  to 
speak,  crystallized  and  hardened  into  the  Vulgate,  after 
which  no  further  change  took  place.  The  Vulgate  became 
known  as  Gesta  Bomanorum,  and  was  probably  supposed 
by  each  person  to  be  identical  with  the  work  he  had  always 
heard  called  by  that  title,  bat  which  was,  as  we  have  seen, 
differently  given  by  every  MS. 

Returning  to  the  present  edition,  it  is  necessary  to 
explain  why  the  moralizations  have  been  shortened.  Mr. 
Swan  omitted  the  greater  part  of  all  but  a  few  at  the 

:-=  !l(  ■  111  ■.■t'r:-1  , 

except  from  the  light  they  throw  on  the  nature  and  origin 
Of  the  Oesta,  and  as  a  mere  translation  of  them  is  of  no  use 

|  for  this  purpose,  I  have  left  them  in  the  abbreviated  state. 
The  reader  can  easily  judge  of  their  nature  from  the  few 

|  given  in  full. 

I  have  revised  the  translation  clikily  by  reference  to  the 
readings  in  Oesterley's  edition,  which  is  a  reprint  of  the 
two  first  editions.*  I  have  also  frequently  referred  to  an 
edition  printed  in  folio,  at  Hagenau,  by  Henry  Gran,  in 
1517,  which  is  a  reprint  of  his  edition  of  1503,  from  which 
Mr.  Snan  made  his  translation.  The  colophon  of  the 
edition  of  1517  (in  the  British  Museum)  ia  the  same,  with 
the  exception  of  the  date,  as  that  of  Gran's  edition  of  1508, 
of  which  the  colophon  will  be  found  at  the  end  of  the 
volume.  The  differences  between  the  Hagenau  edition  and 
the  Vulgato  are  very  small,  and  would  only  be  appreciable 
to  the  public  if  a  literal  translation  were  made  of  each. 
*  See  above,  pp.  viiL,  ii. 


PREFACE.  XV 

Whenever  the  reading  of  the  Hagenau  copy  is  more 
intelligible  than  that  of  the  older  edition,  I  have  adopted 
it  It  is  quite  possible  that  Gran  may  have  bad  access  to 
MSS.  which  the  editors  of  the  Vulgate  did  not  know  of; 
and  thus  he  may  have  obtained  a  warrant  for  introducing 
the  few  slight  improvements  he  made  on  his  predecessor»' 
text 

I  would  call  the  reader's  attention  to  the  fact  that  one 
or  two  very  good  stories  are  contained  in  Mr.  Swan's 
Introduction. 

W.  K. 

Losdoh,  July  31«*,  1876. 


TnT  History  of  Romantic  Fabling  ia  enveloped  in  much  perploiity  j 
nor  iB  it  diminished  by  the  various  conjectures  which  have  been 
started  and  upheld.  The  labours  of  ingenuity  am  not  always  eon. 
vincing ;  and  perhaps  the  very  fact  of  their  plausibility  leads  Hi  to 
mistrust.  Disc  nasi  on  upon  remote  history  is  ever  attended  with 
difficulty ;  and  armaments  that  rest  upon  the  basin  of  refined  deduc- 
tion—that are  artfully  designed  to  pull  down  one  nystetn  while  i  !■■■  v 
support  another  eqnally  imaginative,  may  have  a  well-founded  elaim 
to  admiration,  bat  not  upon  the  score  of  truth.  It  is  singular  i  '■■■■■ 
the  mind  loves  to  grasp  at  mystery,  and  to  disport  itself  in  the  chain 
of  departed  time.  It  ipringsi  undauntedly  forward,  onappatled  i#y 
the  numberless  shadows  which  nit  in  "dim  perspective71  before  it, 
and  undeterred  by  the  inl  I 

captive  escaped  from  confinement,  wantoning  in  the  eiceea  of  nn- 
acenstomed  liberty.  And  the  more  boundless  the  subject,  the  leos 
timid  we  find  thu  adventurer  ;  tho  more  perilous  the  journey,  the  In* 

as  if,  because  the  faint  heart  never  attained  the  fair  lady,  raodnt 
pretensions  and  unassuming  merit  never  secured  the  lady  Tbcth. 
It  is  a  libel  upon  the  head  and  the  heart;  and  cannot  be  too  spend  dy 
abandoned. 

Of  the  theories  already  advanced,  none,  it  seems  to  me,  is  perfect; 
and  none,  without  some  portion  of  accuracy.  They  each  go  part  of 
the  way,  but  stop  before  they  touch  the  mark.  Bishop  Percy,  after 
Mallet,  attributes  the  invention  of  romance  to  the  ancient  Scald*  or 
Bards  of  the  North.  "  They  believed  the  existence  of  giants  and 
dwarfs ;  they  entertained  opinions  not  unlike  the  more  modirti 
notion  of  fairies;  they  were  strongly  possessed  with  the  belief  of 
«pells  and  enchantments,  and  were  fond  of  inventing  combats  with 


INTRODUCTION. 


dragons  and  I 
than  the  entire  machinery  employed  i 
every  other  oriental  fiction.  Snch  a  I 
the  result  of  accident ;  i 


is  unequivocally  nothing  less 
all  the  Arabian  Talcs,  and  in 
'incidence  no  one  will  suppose 
tliat  the 


n  imaginations  of  the  East — where  Nature  brightens  the  fancy 
equally  with  the  flowers — borrowed  it  from  the  colder  conceptions  of 
the  Northern  bards.  Many  parts  of  the  Old  Testament  demonstrate 
familiarity  with  spells;  and  Solomon  (which  proves  a  traditional 
it  least,  between  the  Jews  and  other  people  of  the  East), 
by  universal  consent,  has  been  enthroned  sovereign  of  the  Genii,  and 
lord  of  the  poworfnl  Talisman.  In  David  and  Goliath,  we  trace  the 
j  of  knights  with  giants:  in  the  adventures  of  Samson, 
perhaps,  the  miraculous  feats  attributed  to  the  heroes  of  chivalry. 
In  tlio  apocryphal  Book  of  Tobit,  we  have  an  angel  in  the  room  of 
.[NT;  enchantments,  autiiloU-4,  di^inTscd  damsels,  demons,  and 
t  of  the  other  machinery  of  the  occidental  romance.'  Parts 
of  the  Pentateuch,  of  Kino,  iVc,  <Wv.  Lippcar  to  hiivo  boon  amplified, 
and  rendered  wild  and  fabnloos ;  and  were  the  comparison  carried 
jiHiinii.'lv  forward,  I  am  persutidod  that  the  analogy  would  be  fonnd 
s  striking  as  distinct.  I  mean  not  that  this  has  always  been  the 
immediate  source  :  I  am  rather  inclined  to  suppose  that  certain 
ns,  direct  from  the  East,  already  dilated  and  improved, 
i  generally  the  origin.  But  Scripture,  in  many  cases, 
furnished  a  supernatural  agency  without  pursuing  this  circuitous 
I  as  heroea  with  all  the  attributes  of  ancient  romance. 
In  the  old  French  prose  of  Sir  Outs],  chap,  xsiv.,  wo  have  the 
following  exclamation-  on  the  donlh  of  tlio  knight,  Roland,  which 
partly  confirm  my  observation  : — "  Compare  a  Judas  Machabeus  par 
ta  valeur  et  prouesse;  resscmblanl  a  Xa-ii/nn,  et  pareil  a.  Jonatas  fits 
Haul  par  la  Fortune  de  sa  triste  morte ! "  The  Jewish  Talmud, 
and  especially  the  commentary  upon  it,  abounds  with  fables,  composed 
ne  respect*  of  1 1 10  material-  worker!  up  by  i  l,c  Moulds,  but  long 
ior  in  date  to  their  compositions,  so  far  as  they  aro  known. 
-.  Percy  contends  that  "old  writers  of  chivalry  appear  utterly 
unacquainted  with  whatever  relates  to  the  Mahometan  nations,  and 
s  worshipping  idols,  or  adoring  a  golden  image  of 
Mahomet,"  ■  This,  I  should  conceive,  would  naturally  be  the  case, 
mof  Christian  writers  to  represent  the  infidels  in  the 


■'■■■■'"■■»"  If  i 

111  Mir:  up}-!'".    .    . 

list.  <jf  Axe.  £ng. 


■ient  English  Paltry,  v 


IXXHODUCTION,  XIX 

worst  light  possible.  They  thought  them  tho  moat  wretched  being* 
in  creation ;  and  they  might,  therefore,  artfully  pervert  their  creed 
and  exaggerate  their  vices.  Most  freijuunU;,  such  would  be  the 
genuine  result  of  their  abliori-eiicc :  just  us  popular  superstition 
pictnres  the  "  foul  fiend  "  with  hoins.  and  cloven  feet,  and  a  hideously 
distorted  countenance — Dot  because  it  ii  really  accredited,  but 
because  nothing  is  thought  too  vile  or  too  fearful  for  the  Evil  One. 
The  hostility  which  the  crusades  eicited  ai.d  nourished  ;  nay,  tha 
very  difference  of  religions  feeling,  wonld  lu-n-mnriiy  u»U  out  the 
«bole  virulence  of  an  age  not  remarkable  for  ,n  furb>-aran.oe  j  and  it 
is  absurd  to  suppose  that  the  intercourse  so  lur.z  maintained  between 
the  two  continents  (boih  previous  to  these  expeditions,  anrt  subse- 
quent) ebonld  not  have  given  them  a  aufnr.rr.t  acquaintance  with 
the  Saracen  belief  and  mode  of  worship.  If  the  great  Baladin 
required  and  received  knighthood  from  the  hands  of  the  Christians,' 
it  argued  a  degree  of  intimacy  with  European  customs  on  the  oua 
ri'-k-.  Which  it  would  be  unfair  and  arbitrary  to  deny  the  other. 

That  the  Scalds  added  some  circumstances  to  the  original  matter, 
and  rejected  others,  is  extremely  probable.  The  traditions  which 
conveyed  the  fable  would,  of  course,  be  corrupted  ;  not  only  from 
the  mode  of  conveying  it,  but  from  tho  dissimilarity  of  customs  and 
ideas  among  those  by  whom  it  was  reoeived.  All  I  contend  for  is 
the  original  ground,  upon  which  thay  and  other  nations  have  bnilt ; 
and  this,  I  think  1  ahull  be  able  to  demonstrate,  purely  oriental. 
But  it  is  objected  that,  if  the  Northern  bards  had  derived  their 
systems  from  the  East,  they  would  have  naturalized  them  as  the 
Romans  did  the  stories  of  Greece.  It  is  thought  that  they  must  have 
adopted  into  their  religious  rites  .the  same  mythology,  and  havo 
evinced  as  strong  a  similitude,  as  the  nations  of  classical  celebrity. 
There  is,  in  truth,  no  basis  for  such  an  assertion  to  stand  upou.  The 
lung  intercourse  between  these  nation?,  [.heir  vicinity  to  each  otht, , 
and,  more  than  all,  the  original  similarity  of  their  worship,  prepared 
the  Romans  to  receive  the  devotional  system  of  a  conquered  country 
without  hesitation.  They  understood  and  valued  Grecian  literature, 
and  consequently  found  an  additional  motive  for  the  reception  of 
Greoian  theology.  It  accorded  with  preconceived  notions;  it  was, 
in  fact,  a  ■part  of  their  own.  Besides,  the  Romans  were  rising  in 
civilization,  and  canght  at  every  shadow  of  improvement.  The 
people  of  the  North  were  totally  the  reverse.   They  were  the  children 


a  jusilu-  Iobuccd. 


i.  it)  Is  cited  1)7  Gibbco  fcf 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 

of   Nature — of  Nature  yet  unbotrothed   to  Art.     They   were   not, 

therefore,   prepared   by   anything   analogous    to  produce    a   similar 

(.■flout :  and  could  but  seize  the  most  prominent  features  that  were 

asented  to  them,  upon  which  to  engraft  their  own  wild  and  terrible 

Warton  baa  written  a  long  dissertation  to  prove  that  the  Arabians, 
"Ilii  had  been  for  soma  time  seated  on  the  northern  coasts  of  Africa, 
and  who  entered  Spain  about  the  beginning  of  the  eighth  oentury, 
"  disseminated  those  extravagant  inventions  which  were  so  peculiar 
ti>  their  romantic  and  creative  genius."'  This  hypothesis  Bishop 
Percy  has  endeavoured  to  refute ;  and,  according  to  Mr.  Ellis,*  he 
has  entirely  succeeded.  The  argument  advanced  on  this  oooaaion  is 
that,  were  it  true,  "  the  first  French  romances  of  chivalry  would  have 
boon  on  Moorish,  or  at  least  Spanish  subjects,  whereas  the  most 
ancient  stories  of  this  kind,  whether  in  prose  or  verse,  whether  iu 
Italian,  French,  English,  &a.,  are  chiefly  on  the  subjects  of  Charle- 
magne and  the  Fuladins,  or  of  our  British  Arthur,  and  his  Knights  of 
tho  Bound  Table,  &c.,  being  evidently  borrowed  from  the  fabnlous 
chronicles  of  the  supposed  Archbishop  Turpin,  and  of  Jeffrey  of 
Monmouth."  *  Something  in  this  there  may  be  ;  hnt  it  is  stiU  clear 
that  intercourse,  of  whatever  kiud,  existing  between  two  nations, 
must,  i"  a.  iii'rrniTi  di.^ivi-,  ;-ii[j[>k  informal  inn  n/lmivi-  l.u  their  peculiar 
habits  and  belief.  That  each  side  would  hold  commnnicatiou  with 
their  captives,  either  from  political  motives  or  otherwise,  is  con. 
sistent  with  the  experience  of  all  ages ;  and,  surely,  not  every 
individual  would  bo  so  fastidious  as  to  repel  a  closer  intimacy. 
Courtesy,  humanity,  intrigue,  &c,  would,  in  some  few  at  least,  open 
u  door  to  an  unfettered  interchange  of  thought ;  while  gratitude  for 
certain  benefits  might  operate  on  others.  In  the  oourse  of  a 
multifarious  warfare,  such  things  mutt  occur ;  the  line  of  separation, 
"i «si  uccusiuniiHj  be  removed,  and  youthful  hearts  and  minds  must, 
■now  and  than,  however  sundered  by  luiuum  prejudice*,  break  down 
the  strongest  barrier  that  interposes  between  them.  If  this  be 
granted,  when  the  history  of  such  times  and  such  circumstances  was 
forgotten,  tho  litfrariire  which  they  hail  helped  to  disseminate  would 
remain.  The  legendary  tale  of  the  sire  iTxilHWlli  numitilateiJ  to  the 
son;  and  the  fact  is  cu  record,  though  the  occasion  be  obliterated. 
The  fabulous  chronicle  of  Turpin  might  then  be  drawn  up  j  having 
its  superstructure   on   French   manners,  but   its  basis  on  oriental 

*  Anc.  Met.  Kamanra,  vol.  1.  p.  31. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXI 


learning.  Mack  time  must  inevitably  elapse  before  new  system» 
tan  take  root  \  and  when  they  do,  it  is  imperceptibly  and  silently. 
Hence,  may  the  hostile  incursions  of  the  Saracens  bare  introduced 
•ume  portion  of  Eastern  fiction:  bat  not  all ;  for  it  is  the  common 
tendency  of  &  conquered  country  to  engraft  its  own  character  and 
cnsU-1013  npoa  those  of  the  stranger  power. 

It  has  been  observed  by  KitBOD  (whose  virulent  and  ungentle  manly 
ibuse  of  his  opponents  is  disgusting  in  the  extreme  !}  that  neither 
to»  Spaniards,  nor  any  ether  nations  of  Europe,  had  an  opportunity 
iiF sdopting  literary  information  "from  a  people  with  whom  they  bad 
!»i  connection,  bub  as  enemies,  whose  language  they  never  underrtood, 
*ti  white  manners  they  detested  ;  nor  would  even  have  condescended 
or  permitted  themselves  to  make  such  an  adoption  from  a  set  of 
infidel  barbarians  who  have  invaded,  ravaged,  and  possessed  them- 
«■Iresuf  some  of  the  best  and  richest  provinces  of  Spain."  >  Mucb  of 
ujflisin  substance  what  has  been  contended  against  above;  and  that 
1  >Eiy  short  period  of  servitude  will  nut  open  the  sources  of  a  more 
n  appearance  at  least — between  nations 
is  contrary  to  historical  fact  and  to  human 
"«are.  The  enslaved  roust  look  np  to  the  enslaver  for  protection — 
f*  support ;  and  the  latter  in  return  would  enforce,  under  the 
pfnilty  of  extermination,  the  aid  which  was  considered  requisite, 
finis,  however  involnntory  and  hatoful,  intercourse  must  be  nader 
al  situations.  But  here  the  fact  is,  as  Mr.  Warton  remarks  {though 
K:wia  pleases  to  overlook  it),  that  after  the  irruption  of  the  Saracens, 
tb«  Spaniards  neglected  even  the  study  of  the  Sacred  Writings,  I<f 
t1*  express  purpose  of  acquiring  the  Arabic.  This  curious  passage  is 
cited  by  Du  Cange,  whose  words  I  «ball  quote  at  length  ; — 

"Quod  veto  supra  laudatua  Scriptor  anonymoa  dp  Gallim  nostras 
x>  Lingua  Latina  barbaric  auto  Caroli  M.  tompura,  idem  de  Hispania 
I  "at  Baracenomm  irrnptiooem  testator  AJvarus :  nbi  neglectis  et 
E^tthobitts  ScripiurU  Saiicti.-.,  >;mimquo  sacria  interpret  bus,  q  not  quo  t 
""perarant  Christian!,  Arabnm  Cbaldmorunique  libris  evolveudis 
'iflnnbeBAnt,  gentilitia  erwfiiinii.s  -pwclari,  .!■■■.(;•.'■■■■  elaqmo  tublititatt, 
ttliaiaiticam  pulchritwlinem  ignorantes,  et  Ecelesia  fiumina  de 
P<"a&i»o  manamtia,  quasi  vilistima  contemnentes,  legem  mam  ntsciebanl, 
.  «*  Hmjuam  propHam  nan  adverfaiiant  Latini,  ifa  ut  en  omni  Christi 
CoBijfc  t-w  inveniretur  un»*  in  milleno  hominum  genere,  q-ui  salu. 
tetnrias  fralri  poaset  Tationaliier  dirigttre  literal,  CttM  RErEKiJtENiuiL 

1"S^Dl     MCWKItO      SUTLTIPLICEB      TUBE*:,       qui        EBUD1TE      Ch*(.I)iUCAS| 


XXII  INTRODUCTION. 


■ 


■ 

VEiinontIM  explicjhpvt  itim  pas,  Quod  cpmletri  aliunde  Grmatt  qnic  de 
Elepanto  Tolotano  supra  dixiuius.  Sod  et  indo  Batis  arguimus  undo 
tot  voces  Arabia»  in  Hispauam,  guhintie  aoao  intulernnt."  ' 

We  have,  then,  a  complete  refutation  of  Ritson's  strongest  objec- 
tion ;  and  perhaps  had  not  the  spleen  of  the  writer  boon  more  power. 
fa]  than  the  good  sense  and  feeling  of  tho  man,  he  never  would  have 
hastarded  the  remark.  And  if  judicial  astrology,  medicine,  and 
chemistry,  were  of  Arabian  origin,  and  introduced  into  Europe  a 
century  at  least  before  tho  crusades ;  if  Pope  Gerbert,  or  SylveBter  II., 
who  died  i.e.  1003,  brought  the  Arabic  numerals  into  France,  it  is 
surely  reasonable  to  suppose  that  these  sciences,  bo  intimately 
connected  wil  h  rustical  (ipoi-aiiniM  (and  will:  tiriirins  from  them)  us 
tr>  confer  upon  the  possessor  a  title  to  supernatural  agency,  would 
extend  their  influence  to  the  legendary  stories,  as  well  as  to  tho 
manners  of  the  West,  which  these  very  stories  are  admitted  to 
describe !  Yet,  after  all,  it  is  not  to  be  imagined  that  the  introduction 
of  Eastern  invention  happened  at  one  time,  or  in  one  age;  it  was 
rather  the  growth  of  many  times,  and  of  many  ages — continually, 
though  gradually,  augmenting,  till  it  attained  matnrity. 

The  neit  hypo)  Ii-hI?  ^ivpn  Armorica,  or  Brotany,  as  the  source  of 
romantic  fiction.     But  to  this,  the  same  objections  arise  that  have 

■  been  started  with  reapect  to  the  rest.  Mr.  Ellis,  in  tho  introduction 
to  his  Specimens  nf  E"rhj  Engliih  Romances,  plausibly  suggests  that 
all  are  compatible.  He  imagines  "  that  tho  scenes  and  characters  n[ 
oar  romantic  histories  were  very  generally,  though  not  exclusively, 
derived  from  the  Bretons,  or  from  tho  Welsh  of  this  island;  that 
much  of  the  colouring,  aiid  |K-iT.i l j i j  ionii:  pari  iiriilnr  adventures,  may 
be  of  BuandiT.iiviiM]  origin,  ii  ml  ili-il  occiisiuuii!  ('[.i^.dos,  together  with 
part  of  the  machinery,  may  have  bcon  borrowed  from  the  Arabians."  * 

I  Which  is  as  mnch  as  to  say,  that  each  nation  OQuli'iljui.ed  soiiteOiiiij, 
Bind  very  likely  they  did  ;  bat  which  furuished  the  greater  part,  or 
which  originated  the  whole,  is  jnst  as  obscure  as  before  a  "recon- 
ciliation" of  opinions  was  projected.  This  conciliatory  system  will 
remind  the  render  of  Boccacio'a  tale  of  Tin-  Three.  Hiiiys,  "  the  question 
of  which  is  yet  remaining." 
Another  supposition  attributes  the  chief  source  of  romantic  fiction 
to  classical  and  mythological  authors;  that  is,  to  the  stories  of 
Greece  and  Rome,  somewhat  altered  by  modern  usages.  To  this 
beliof   Mr.   Sonthey'  and  Mr.  Dunlop  seem  to  incline.     The  latter 


o  .-1  mad  is  of  Gaul- 


INTRODUCTION.  x: 

wills  that-,  "  after  all,  a  groat  proportion  of  the  wonders  of  romance 
must  be  attributed  to  the  imagination  of  the  authors."  Bat  when 
these  wonders,  similarly  constructed,  pervade  the  moat  remote 
wontries,  there  moat  be  something  more  than  an  author's  imagination 
taught  into  the  account.  Con  side  rat  ion,  however,  is  dne  to  the  idea 
■■i  a  classical  origin ;  and  Una,  blended  with  the  rest,  may  help  to 
cake  np  a  perfect  system.  Before  I  proceed  to  the  attempt,  I 
would  advert  to  certain  observations  which  Mr.  Dunlop  has 
promulgated  in  hia  History  of  Fiction,  He  saya,  "It  cannot  be 
denied,  and  indeed  has  been  acknowledged  by  Mr.  Warton,  that  the 
StlioTis  o/  the  Arabians  and  Scalds  are  totally  afferent."1  Mac* 
munodprstanding  would  doubtless  bo  avoided  by  accurate  references : 
•lul  if  Mr.  Dunlop  bo  correct  in  what  he  assorts,  it  would  be  a 
pl&Mnt  thing  to  know  the  edition  and  page  to  which  he  allndes.  In 
contradiction  to  tho  insinuation  hero  thrown  out,  Warton  aays,  "But 
*»$&  resemblance  which,  tlw  paqwn  Scandinavians  bore  to  the  Eastern 
Milan»  in  manners,  monuments,  opinions,  and  practices  is  so  vkei 
P'E'.t-ptiiilk  and  aH'aiiknt,  an  infi.'rouoe  arises,  that  their 
""gnuon  from  the  East  must  have  happened  at  a  period  by  many 
■ISM  more  recent,  and  therefore  most  probably  abont  the  time 
«IWifisd  by  historians,"  *  And  again,  "  These  practices  and 
"limiouK  eo-oporated  with  kindred  suporsi.it  ion  a  of  dragons,  dwarfs, 
frWtt,  giants,  and  enchanters,  which  the  traditions  of  the  Gothic 
Snider»  had  already  planted  ;  and  produoed  that  extraordinary 
•pecios  of  composition  wbioh  has  been  called  Romance."  '  In 
'"utliar  place,  indeed,  he  admits  that  there  were  "  tut  few  "  of  these 
ministers  in  the  poetry  of  tho  most  anoient  Scalds  ;  but  that  few  ia 
qoitu  jafficiant  for  the  argument. 

80  that,  one  would  think:,  Warton  supplies  no  testimony  in 
rapport  of  a  doctrine,  which  I  cannot  help  fancying  may  be  proved 
altogether  groundless.  "  Allowing  the  early  Soaldie  odes  to  be 
Maine,'1  says  Mr.  Dunlop,  "  we  find  in  thera  no  dragons,  giants, 
.  it  mctattieci  castiBB.  These  are  only  to  be  met  with  in 
""JCmupositions  of  the  bards  who  flourished  after  the  native  vein  of 
limit;  fabling  had  been  enriohed  by  the  tnlea  of  the  Arabians."  ' 
Tiii  is  an  aitromely  cautions  method  of  writing;  for  while  wo 
"intend  that  the  Easterns  famished  tho  groundwork,  and  ill  tho 
^e,  Mr.  Dunlop  may  tell  us,  be  it  when  it  may,  that  it  waa 
»itwf(uent  to  the  period  in  which  the  Bunk  fable  flourished  in  its 


xx.lV  INTRODUCTION. 


■ 


itive  parity.  Let  oh  eiamine,  however,  how  far  bis  bold  assertioi 
y  be  maintained,  respecting  the  poeUeiil  machinery  adopted  by  the 
ancient  Scalds.  Let  us  advert  to  Emu,1  a  monument  "  tont-a-fttit 
nniqne  en  son  espece,"  as  Monsieur  Mallet  assures  us,5  and  try 
whether  there  be  not,  in  fact,  almost  the  whule  of  what  be  has 
rejected. 

Gylfe  was.  king  of  Sweden,  and  a  celebrated  magician.  When  a 
colony  of  Asiatics  arrived  in  his  country  (a  tradition  which  adds 
strength  to  mj  hypothesis)  ho  assumed  the  form  of  an  old  man,  and 
journeyed  to  the  city  of  Aegard.  "  Sed  Abbs  erant  perspicaoiorea, 
(imo  ut)  pneviderent  iter  ejus,  enmque  /use inn t tone  oenlorum 
eiciperent.  Tunc  cemebaf  tile  altum  palatium:  Teeta  ejus  erant 
tocta  anreis  clypcis,  ut  tectum  novum.  Ita  loquitur  Diodolfiua  I 
'  Tectum  ei  auro  niicatite,  Parietes  ex  lapide,  Fnndamjna  anise  ex 
montihas  feeero  Aste  sagaciores.'  "  * 

Here,  beyond  dispute,  is  an  enchanted  castle.  And  not  only  so, 
but  the  common  oriental  practice  of  putting  a  number  of  questions  as 
the  test  of  a  person's  wisdom,  occurs  in  this  very  fable.  "*  Qui  est  le 
plus  ancien  ou  le  premier  des  DieuxP"  is  first  asked,  and  other 
interrogatories  follow,  of  a  similar  character.  Then  for  the  Giants 
— in  the  Runic  mythology  nothing  is  more  common.  Speaking  of 
the  formation  of  man,  the  Edda  observes  (I  follow  the  French 
translation  of  M.  Mallet) :  "  Cot  homme  fnt  appallo  Tine  ;  las  Gcans 
le  nomment  Oergehner,  et  o'est.  de  lui  que  too  teg  leurs  families  de- 
scendant, commo  cela  est  dit  dans  la  Voluspa:  '  Tou1.es  les  Prophetesses 
viennent  de  Vittolfe ;  les  sages  de  Vilmfldc,  les  GeaNs  do  Yme,' 
et  dans  un  autre  endroit :  '  Des  neuves  Elivages  ont  coule  des 
goutes  de  venim,  et  il  souffia  un  vent  d'oii  un  Geant  fnt  forme. 
De  lui  uiennent  tautes  les  races  Gigantesques.' " '  In  this  plaee  we 
have  not  merely  an  accidental  notice  of  giants,  but  their  full 
genealogy,  and  a  quotation  from  a  poem  still  more  ancient  than  th» 
Edda,  introduced  in  support  of  it.  Afti'rwjiiila  mention  is  made  of 
the  Dwarfs  .-  "  Alors  les  Dieux  s'etant  assis  sur  leurs  thrfinos  rendirent 
1  "The  EdAi  it'iw  ■■"luiiilf-.l,  iii,-!,;',i.::IIii  with  many  iddiiions  an. 

mihti/iitiiidtir,  ■mil  ili.'u^li  I  ■!■■  ii ■<  il'.'iiy  Un1  i'ri.li,i|.ill[y  oT  Inlerpotat 
rr-Jiii4iu1h.li  tin'  <ii>///'s.  ,^l-.,  :iirl.  >nt  liii-tlicr  proof. 

'  IbummiJr  to.  M.-itl.-it.  :t  il...  ,',i  r-vj.V  ,(.■,-  (V.7.S.  he,  p,  13,  Fn, 

il.-    I-;  .ii.  ■  !.--:: 


The*  hi  ixhn.i  ,1  I'.n,/ 

wllh  golden  shields,  like  a  new  rout.     Tl  xi  ni..il..liii:-  - 
,l,l.itiL'-.  m..,ri.'  «kilhil,  made  the  n   " 


d  wllh  golden  shields,  like  a  new  roof.     Tlifta  Piiilullh 
-  nf  fining  gold,  ,     •   " 
■  "— IjUELAlSOS,  Li 


Mjlhubjgic  Ciltiijue,  [l 


INTEODUCTION. 


SIT 


1»  ins 


)   et   deli  bete  rent  s 


i  concernoit  las  Nuns.     Cetto 

is  In  poudre  de  la  terre,  conuH 
ies  vers  naiasent  dans  cm  cadavre,"1  And  ug-.iin  of  the  Fairies  and 
Genii,  or  beings  answering  to  them — "  Lea  unes  sont  d' origin» 
divine,  d'antres  descendant  des  GsstFs,  d'autre»  dea  Naina,  comme 
il  eat  dit  dans  aes  vers  %  H  y  a  ii»  Fses  de  diverse  origine,  qutlques 
«tie»  viennent  del  Ditux,  et  d'autres  des  Ge.mes,  d'autres  des  Sains."  * 
This  fable  gives  a  vory  curious  account  of  the  fairies  :  •'  Voici,"  says 
M-  Mallet,  "one  Thearie  cotoplette  de  la  F6erie;"  bnt  they  axe 
perhaps,  as  Bishop  Fere;  has  remarked,  more  analogous  to  the  Weird 
Sitter!  than  to  the  popular  notion  of  fairyism  in  the  present  day.  The 
ninth  fable  of  the  Eijda  alludes  to  "'  LeS  Genies  lumineni,"  «bo  are 
aaid  to  be  "plus  brillans  que  le  soleil  ;  maia  les  noirs  sont  plus  noirs 
que  la  potx."*  And  what  is  this  bnt  the  good  and  bad  genii  of 
Eastern  romance?  Thcr's  "  taillante  ceinture,  qui  a  le  pouvoir 
d'accroitre  Mi  forces,"  and  the  "chaine  magiqne,*'*  are  equivalent 
to  the  enchanted  ring  ;  nor  are  "  le  grand  serpent  da  Midgard,"  with 
other  monsters,  so  unlike  the  oriental  Dragon,1  is  to  preclude  any 

ttMEjpatfeuL 

In  short,  the  reader  clearly  distinguishes  the  accordance  of  the 
Northern  mythology  with  that  of  the  East.  I  could  cite  many  more 
examples,  but  they  are  unnecessary  ;  and  if,  as  Mr.  Dnulop  imagines, 
'•in  the  Eastern  Peris  we  may  trace  the  origin  of  EusofeaH  Faisles,"* 
by  what  possible  contrivance,  if  he  will  be  consistent,  can  be  deny 
to  the  fairies  of  the  North  that  claim  which  he  grants  to  the  viholA 
of  BntmZ 

J  shall  now  proceed  to  account  for  the  introduction  of  romantic 
fiction,  by  a  channel  which  appears  to  me  the  most  natural,  and 
therefore  the  moat  likely  to  be  true.  I  would  begin  with  that 
period  in  which  the  persecutions  of  the  pagan  rulers  drove  the 
primitive  Christians  into  the  East-  Full  of  the  mysterious  wonders 
of  the  Apocalypse,  not  less  than  of  the  miraculous  records  of  the 
Holy  Gospels;  imbued  with  all  that  the  Old  Testament  narrates,  and 
probably  anticipating  similar  interposition  from  Heaven  in  their  own 
persons;  their  minds  wrought  up  by  many  causes  to  the  highest 
pitch  of  enthusiasm,  and  their  hearts  glowing  with  a  fervoor  that  no 
other  ages  can  beast — they  were  well  prepared  to  receive  the  impres- 


'  nybftpie  Critique,  p.  3d. 
•  TV  Apocryphal  cODtlnuiti 


ISTRODrCTIOX. 

sions  naturally  made  npon  ft  bested  fancy;  and  to  pnt  credit  in  tales 
which  the  distress  of  their  situation  prevented  them  from  investi- 
t'iitin^,  and  their  ignorance  or  credulity  debarred  from  doubt.  Hence, 
with  the  lives  of  the  Fathers  of  the  Church,  they  interwove  prodigies 
of  another  land  ;  and  being  farther  willing  W  address  the  prejudices 
of  those  they  might  hope  to  convert,  adorned  their  martyrologies 
with  fictitious  incidents  of  oriental  structure — even  as,  to  conciliate 
the  heathen,  they  introduced  into  their  religious  buildings  the 
statues  of  pagan  worship,  dignifying  them  with  novel  namea,  nnd 
serving  them  with  novel  ceremonies.  Not  always,  indeed,  was  this 
the  process;  nor  the  apotheosis  always  intentional.  Succeeding 
times  exhibited  another  mode  of  realising  fables,  if  I  may  eo  «peak  ; 
and  discovered  another  path  to  falsehood  under  the  garb  of  truth. 
The  monks  were  accustomed  to  akensH  themselves  with  declaiming 
upon  the  merits  of  their  patron  saint-  To  give  a  new  varnish  to  his 
fame,  to  aicite  yet  more  powerfully  either  the  intellects  or  the 
devotion  of  the  drowsy  brotherhood,  they  added  romantic  fictions 
of  their  own;  and  invented  familiar  stories,  derived  from  an  infinite 
variety  of  sources.  But  because  Eastern  imaginations  were  more 
splendid  and  captivating — because  Jerusalem  and  the  Holy  Se pule hro 
were  in  the  East — because  "an  idle  and  lying  horde  of  pilgrims  and 
palmers"  (as  Mr.  Dunlnp  impresses  it)  annually  brought  thither  fresh 
subjects  for  credulity  to  feed  upon,  they  were  the  most  partial  to 
oriental  conceptions.  Tho  fables  which  tbey  thus  constructed  were 
laid  by,  fairly  transcribed,  and  beautifully  illuminated;  until,  in  due 
time,  the  monastery  coffers  were  ransacked,  and  the  gross  and 
acknowledged  inventions  of  earlier  ascetics  were  imposed  npou  their 
later  brethren,  as  the  undoubted  aod  veritable  history  of  real  Fathers 
and  real  saints. 

It  la  well  known  that,  in  tho  earlier  apes  of  Christianity,  forged 
gospels  were  pnt  forth  in  imitation  of  the  true  ;  while  the  tenets  of 
tho  Persian  magi  were  united  with  1  he  dootrlnes  of  the  Son  of  God.1 
If  this  prove  nothing  further,  it  proves  the  facility  with  which 
oriental  dogmas  were  interwoven  with  those  of  the  West.  At  a  more 
advanced  period,  other  legends  written  in  Latin,  and  professing  to  be 
narratives  of  what  octuallv  occurred,  ware  ngain  transcribed,  with 
manifold  amplifications  by  those  into  whose  hands  tho  manuscripts 
might  happen  to  fall.  Metrical  versions  were  then  given;  and  their 
popularity  scon  induced  the  narrators  to  step  ont  of  their  immediate 
walk  of  martyrdom,  to  raise  the  standard  of  chivalry  in  the  persons 

SH  Mosheim'a  Kcdn.  Silt.  Cent,  I,  ind  III. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XX  VII 


of  Brute,  Alexander,  Charlemagne,  and  the  rest.  Let  it  be  observed 
tint  all  these  stories  are  of  a  similar  coat ;  the  Live»  of  He  Saint*, 
tomebow  or  other,  are  always  connected  with  the  lictious  of  every 
hero  of  chivalry.  They  invariably  work  marvels  ia  behalf  of  their 
onirics;  they  bequeath  relies  of  surprising  power— or  they  appear 
111  Jreams ;  or  the  utterance  of  their  mighty  names  counteracts  the 
Vfltsncy  ef  magical  delusions,  Ac,  Ac.,  while  the  hero  himself,  treading 
ill  lae  steps  of  bis  canonized  precursor,  becomes  a  distinguished  r<:li- 
J>«u ;  and  at  last  takes  ki<s  place  in  the   calendar — "a  very,  very 

SllST." 

If  my  hypothesis,  therefore,  be  jnst,  with  the  return  of  the  eiiled 
Onirtians  from  the  East  originated  raiuimtic  fiction  in  Europe.  but 
«lis,  of  course,  must  be  taken  with  modifications.  Time  alone  could 
nrntore  what  in  its  progress  acquired  such  extensive  popularity : 
indit  seems  to  me  one  of  the  glaring  defects  of  other  sv.-i  m  . 
tl*j  would  represent  the  rise  of  that  particular  kind  of  fable  in 
question  to  have  been  almost  instantaneous:  to  have  followed  swift 
upon  the  incursions  of  the  Saracens — to  have  sprung  up  mysteriously 
"mong  the  Scandinavians,  or  equally,  if  not  more  bo,  among  the 
tanorioins.  Whereas  that  which  was  so  wide  in  its  extent— so 
liapilu  in  ita  effects— so  deeply  impressed  on  a  large  portion  of  the 
ciobe,  must  inevitably  have  had  a  beginning  and  a  middle  :  it  must 
Webaen  long  orescent,  before  it  was  at  the  full.  It  is  true  the 
cluskal  system  has  not  all  the  objections  which  meet  the  other,  on 
tkascore  of  precipitancy  [  but  still  it  accounts  only  for  that  part  of 
rammce  which  is  evidently  built  upon  olassin  ground.  Much  of  the 
nKcbinery  is  wholly  different ;  and  from  the  comparatively  few 
lilnaiaos— froni  the  indistinct  and  monstrous  perversions  of  Grecian 
w  Roman  fable,  ws  are  sure  that  their  knowledge  was  very  limited. 
""1  in  fact,  a  union  of  classic  traditions  with  oriental  fiction  is  not 
""if  probable  bnt  certain  ;  yet  my  hypothesis  still  traces  it  to  the 
mbl1  For  it  will  be  noticed,  that  Eastern  conceptions  invariably 
Illuminate,  oven  where  the  subject  is  confessedly  classic  ;  as  in  the 
*Wria  of  AJeiandor,  Ctosar,  and  others.  Besides,  the  incursions  i.t' 
™t»  leaders  into  that  quarter  of  the  world  might,  as  it  lias  happened 


which  Ulyasefl  preserved  himself  from  th 


,...'■      . 


'-  fault."    i 


.  .i[ii.|.jL'i:i!  might  li»ve  given  rim  0 


INTRODUCTION.  XXIX 

The  pilgrims,  who  visited  Jerusalem,  eagerly  copied,  in  the  moat 
dittant  dimes  o/  the  earth,  the  faithful  mode]  of  monastic  life.  The 
diieijjles  qf  Antony  spread  thenwelves  beyond  the  tropic,  over  the 
Clvittian  empire  of  (Ethiopia.1  Tha  monastery  of  Banchor,'  iu  Flint, 
ihire,  which  contained  above  two  thousand  brethren,  dispersed  a 
among  the  barbarians  of  Ireland  ;  and  Ionn,  one  ot 
the  Hebrides,  which  was  planted  by  the  Irish  monks,  diffused  over 
the  northern  regions  a  doubtful  ray  of  science  and  sujiersrtiton."* 

The  roving  characters  of  the  monk»,  therefore,  is  another  link  of 
'be  chain  by  which  I  introduce  oriental  notion  into  the  West ;  ami  it 
^utterly  impossible  (maturely  weighing  this  habits  and  propensities 
of  [his  class  of  people)  that  they  should  not  have  pinked  up  and 
retained  the  floating  traditions  of  the  countries  through  which  they 
pused.  "  Some  of.  the  early  romances,"  aays  Mr.  Walker,*  "  as  well 
'-■  the  legends  of  saints,  wore  undoubtedly  fabricated  in  the  deep 
«iltnceof  the  cloister.  Both  frequently  sprung  from  the  warmth  of 
fumy,  which  religious  seclusion  is  so  well  calculated  to  nourish  ;  but 
llw  former  were  adorned  with  fort'.ijh  m.HieitishBienU,"  It  is  exactly 
w  (bis  footing  (though  I  certainty  include  the  latter,  that  is,  the 
legends  of  the  saints,  in  the  idea  of  foreign  embellishment !)  that  I 
"outplace  the  hypothesis  I  have  advaucud;  and  here  Mr.  Walker's 
opinion,  that  Ireland  is  indebted  to  Italy  for  some  of  her  fictions, 
fcrited  originally  from  the  Kast,  will  find  caniirtnatioo.  They 
might,  at  the  same  time,  ham  been  received  by  way  of  Enolsnd,  and 
is  history  testifies  the  fact  of  a  colony  of  nionks  from  thence,  taking 
root  in  Ireland,  the  notion  is  more  than  probable.  But  in  either  case 
rt*  o-rijiinnl  is  the  same.  As  further  corroborative  I  may  add,  that 
inthe  ninth  century  Crete  and  Sicily  were  invaded  and  conquered  by 
'b  Arabs ;    who    likewise    entered    Italy,   and    almost   approached 

Hon», 

1  need  scarcely  allude  to  the  crusades  as  sources  of  romantic 
fibling.  They  are  undisputed  parts  of  the  system  ;  and  probably,  at 
(be  termination  of  the  third  expedition,  toward  the  close  of  the 
'"fifth  eentury,  this  kind  of  writing  was  at  its  height.  Chivalry  was 
Ibru  followed  with  a  steady  devotion,  which,  J  am  inclined  to  think, 
■Wl  afterwards  abated  ;  and  was  rather  the  undulation  of  the  water 
;  the    tempest,  than  the  tempest  itself.     Tha   fourth  and 


xxx  rsTRODrcnoN. 

fifth  crusade  followed  at  the  distance  of  abont  twenty  years;  bnfc 
upwards  of  thirty  elapsed  before  the  aixth  and  last.  The  blood  and 
.in  that  had  been  so  uselessly  lavished  might  well  conduce  to  satisfy 
.e  most  enthusiastic  crusader,  and  stem  the  torrent  of  popalur 
superstition  :  while  the  surprising  frenzy  that  had  so  loop  desolated 
both  hemispheres,  from  its  very  intensity-,  was  calculated  to  subside, 
and  introduce  a  jnster  mode  of  thinking,  and  more  rational  ideas. 
Time,  which  allays  all  other  passions,  could  not  but  temper  this  ;  and 
the  last  of  these  frantic  expeditions  appears,  to  my  imagination,  the  ■ 
desperate  effort  of  expiring  fanaticism— the  last  violent  struggle  of 
religious  persecution  in  the  East.  With  the  decline  of  chivalry,  the 
fictions,  which  principally  attained  their  celebrity  during  its  zenith 
(because  they  had  become  incorporated  with  it ;  though  originally 
independent  and  extraneous),  would  naturally  cease  to  be  regarded  ; 
and  the  extravagant  conceptions  which  this  institution  cherished, 
would,  when  good  sense  resumed  or  assumed  her  proper  place, 
necessarily  fall  into  decay. 


SECTION  n. 
I  now  hasten  to  the  Gest*  Homanosuic  ;  and  purpose  giving  a 
brief  outline  of  its  history,  with  a  notice  of  certain  stories  which, 
without  reference  to  their  own  individual  merit,  have  been  raised 
into  higher  importance  by  furnishing  the  groundwork  of  many 
popular  dramas.  I  shnll  also  take  occasion  to  offer  a  fow  remarks 
upon  the  translation  now  before  the  public,  elucidatory  of  certain 
points  which  seem  to  require  explanation. 

The  GEBTi  Romanorum  was  one  of  the  most  applauded  com- 
pilations of  the  Middle  Ages.  The  method  of  instructing  by  fables 
is  a  practice  of  remote  antiquity;  and  lias  always  been  attended 
with  very  considerable  benefit.  Its  great  popularity  ouoooruged  the 
monks  to  adopt  this  medium,  not  only  for  the  sake  of  illustrating 
their  discourses,  bat  of  making  a  mure  durable  impression  upon  the 
minds  of  their  illiterate  auditors.  An  abstract  argument,  or  logical 
deduction  (had  they  been  capable  of  supplying  it),  would  operate  but 
faintly  upon  intellects  rendered  even  mora  obtuse  by  the  rtida 
of  their  customary  occupations  ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  an 
ppositc  story  wo  ul  ii  arouse  attention,  and  a  tin.  u  late  that  blind  and 
ig  devotion,  which  is  so  remarkably  oharjcteristic  of  the 
Middle  Ages. 


INTRODUCTION.  X3CS1 

The  work  under  consideration  ia  compiled  from  old  Latin 
chronicles  of  Roman,  or  rather,  as  Mr.  Warton  and  lir.  Douce  tliiu  k . 
of  Gum»  invention.  Bat  this  idea,  with  all  submission,  dertvsa 
little  corroborative  evidence  from  fact.  There  ia  one  story,  and  I 
believe,  but  one,  which  gives  any  countenance  to  it.  That  a  few  ai" 
extracted  from  German  nnthors  (who  may  not,  after  all,  be  Um 
(jirencors)  ia  no  more  proof  that  the  compiler  was  a  Gorman,  than 
that,  because  some  stories  are  found  in  the  Roman  annals,  the  whole 
book  was  the  production  of  a  Latin  writer. 

Oriental,  legendary,  aod  classical  fables,  heightened  by  circum- 
stances of  a  strong  romantic  cast,  form  (be  basis  of  this  singular  com- 
position. But  the  authorities  cited  for  classical  allusions  are  usually 
of  the  lower  order.  Valerius,  Maiimns,  Macrobius,  Aulas  Gellius, 
Pliny,  Seneca,  Boethiua,  and  occasionally  Ovid,  are  introduced;  bnt 
they  do  not  always  contain  the  relation  which  they  are  intended  to 
substantiate ;  and  it  is  invariably  much  disguised  and  altered.  The 
oriental  apologues  are  sometimes  from  the  romance  of  fJanrfa.ni  anil 
Jasaphat,  and  in  several  instances  from  a  Latin  work  entitled,  I': 
Clerical)  Ditciplina.  attributed  to  Petrns  Alphonsu»,  a  converted 
Jew,  godson  to  Alpbonsus  I.  of  Arragon,  after  whom  he  was  named. 
There  is  an  analysis  of  it  by  Mr.  Donee  inserted  in  Mr.  Ellis « 
Specimen*  of  Early  En.$li*h  Romances,  According  to  the  formci  of 
tbeae  gentlemen,  two  productions  bearing  the  title  of  Gebta  Roma, 
hokum,  and  totally  distinct  from  each  other,  exist.  I  confess  I  see 
no  good  reason  for  the  assertion.  1  take  the  later  work  to  be  the 
same  as  its  predecessor,  with  a  few  additions,  not  so  considerable  by 
any  means  as  Mr.  Donee  imagines.'  This  I  shall  show,  by  and  by. 
Of  the  present  performance,  though  it  purports  to  relate  the  Gists 
or  TH«  Romans,  there  is  little  that  corresponds  with  the  title.  On 
the  contrary,  it  comprehends  "a  multitude  of  narratives,  either  not 
historical,  or  in  another  respect,  such  as  are  totally  unconnected 
with  the  Roman  people,  or  perhaps  the  most  preposterous  misrepre- 
•entations  of  their  history.  To  cover  this  deviation  from  t!m 
promised  plan,  which,  by  introducing  a  more  ample  variety  of 
matter,  haa  contributed  to  increase  the  reader's  entertainment,  our 
collector  has  taken  care  to  preface  almost  every  story  with  the  ™» 

1  ■■  In  iKt.  the  two  Qmmi  maj  Jon  u  well  br  coariferNl  II 


I 


■■■jatktl 

ftSK 


INTRODUCTION. 


■ 


Or  reign  of  a  Roman  emperor;  who,  at  the  same  time,  is  often  a 
monarch  that  Defer  existed,  and  who  seldom,  whether  real  or 
Hupposititions,    has    any    concorn    with    the    circa  instances    of    the 

The  influence  which  this  work  has  had  on  English  poetry  is  not 
the  least  surprising  fact  connected  with  it.  Not  only  the  earlier 
writers  of  onr  country— Gower,  Chauoer,  Lydgate,  Occlove,  Ac. — have 
been  indebted  to  it,  but  also,  as  the  render  will  perceive  in  tho  notes, 
the  poets  of  modem  times.  Its  popularity  in  the  reign  of  Queen 
Elizabeth  is  proved  by  many  allusions  in  the  works  of  that  period. 
In  an  anonymous  comedy,  published  early  in  the  following  reign, 
entitled  Sir  Giles  Goosecap,  we  have;  "Then  for  your  lordship's 
quips  and  quick  jests,  why  Gksta  Romanqrum  were  nothing  to 
them."'  In  Chapman's  May-Day,'  a  person  Kpcnking  of  the 
literary  information  of  another  character,  styles  him—"  One  that  haa 


The  author  of  this  popular  v 
nothing  certain  is  known.  Wi 
ili/iclii.rius,  or  Pierre  Bercheur, 
the   Benedictine  convent  uf  Sain 


3  like 


irk  has  been  often  guessed  at,  but 


him 


i   Petrm 


9  of  Poiton ;  and  prior  of 
it  Paris,  in  the  year  13«2. 
Mr.  Douce,  on  the  other  huud,  contends  that  he  is  a  German, 
because  "in  the  Moraliaation  to  chapter  144"  [Tale  OXLIV.  of 
the  translated  Gesta],  "there  is,  in  most  of  the  early  editions, 
n  German  proverb;  and  in  chapter  14?"  [Talc  CXLII.],  "several 
German  names  of  dogs,"  I  apprehend,  however,  that  these  names 
ii i ay  be  found  more  analogous  to  the  Saxon ;  and,  at  all  events, 
Warlon's  idea  of  an  interpolation  is  far  from  improbable.  Mr. 
Donee  adds,  that  the  earliest  editions  of  the  Gesta  were  printed 
in  Germany ;  and  certainly  they  often  bear  i  In-  mjws  of  some  plnce 
in  that  country.  But  in  the  first  ages  of  the  art  of  printing,  such 
might  be  the  case,  without  actually  identifying  the  point  where  the 
impression  was  struck  off.  It  is  a  fact,  sufficiently  well  known,  that 
copies  of  certain  books,  printed  in  Italy,  appeared,  in  every  respect 
similar,  and  at  the  same  time,  in  many  parts  of  Germany,  the 
Netherlands,  4c.  The  only  <il'Miv;iUr  ililt".  rence  was  in  the  altera- 
tion of  name»  in  the  title-page.  Now,  if  this  be  true,  the  Betta 
Jitflimnarum,  printed  in  Italy,  and  thence  sent  for  sale  to  some  factor 


1  Wiulnn,  Dtutrt.  on  Orll.  Him.  p.  vii. 
L™kn.    Prime*  tor  J.  Windet,  1(06.        -Act  01.  p.  31.    1111.      •  Yi 


Wins. 


INTRODUCTION. 


XXX1U 


in  distant  parts,  might  have  thia  person's  name  and  residence  affiled, 
out  from  any  dishonest  motive,  bat  merely  to  announce  the  place  in 
which  they  were  to  be  sold.  Such  a  supposition  is  not  beyond  tut; 
bounds  of  probability,  and  may  be  worth  considering.  Many  pop  ins 
will  bo  found  without  date  or  place;  and  perhaps  the  inconvemeni:'i 
and  ditBcnlty  which  a  new  title-page  created,  might  on  ninii 
occasions  induce  the  booksellers  to  omit  it  altogether. 

English  idioms  and  proverbial  expressions  are  so  freqnent  in 

the  Guta  Ronumorum,  that  they  might  lead  to  a  supposition  quits 

the   reverse    of    Mr.    Donee's    idea ;    but    I   rather    conceive    them 

the  necessary  consequence  of  transcription  ;  and  that  the  mamucript 

was  thought  to  require  verbal  flourishes,  as  well  as  gilded  margin* 

and  illuminated  initials.     In  like  manner  I  account  for  the  Saion 

names   of  dogs  [Tale    CXLI1.],  which   are    quite  unnecessary,  and 

seem   introduced    in    the   most  arbitrary    manner.      The   incident* 

of  one  story   [Tale   CLV.]   are   said  la  occur   in  the   bishopric  of 

Ely.     "  This   foot,"   soys   the   writer  of    the    Gest,   "  related    up"i 

the  faith   of    many   to  whom   it    was    well    known,    I   have   my«e</ 

kmrd,  both  from   the  inhabitants  of  the  place  and  others."     The 

inference,  therefore,  is  that  the  narrator  waa  either  an  Englishman, 

«one  well  acquainted  with  the  localities  of  the  place  he  describes. 

1!  the  origin   of  the  other  stories  be  deducible  from  tbe   position 

laid  down  by  Mr.  Douce,  then,  by  parity  of  reasoning,  tbe  writer  of 

>be  tale  in  question  was  the  compiler  of  the  series — and  most  probably 

m  Englishman :  at  all  events,  bis  work  might  be  prepared  in  Kng. 

tad.    But  this  would  not  be  conceded  ;  and  it  ia  only  by  supposing 

«i  interpolation   of   the   atory,  or  of   part   of  the  story,   that  the 

difficulty   is  to  be  obviated.     At  any  rate,  tbe   circumstance   itaelf 

"Wnot  justly  be  adduced  in  proof  either  one  way  or  the  other.     But 

*Wer  was  the  author,  or  authors  (wbioh  ia  more  probable),  and 

"limtcr  they  were  produced,  it  is  for  the  most  part  agreed  that 

He»  tales   were   collected    aa  early  as  the  commencement  of   tbn 

Wteeoth  century— if  not  long  before.     Throngh  a  period  of  rivtj 

hiulrtd   years,  they  have   afforded   a   popular  entertainment :   the 

"ntultiTMed  minds  of  the  Middle  Ages  valued  them  as  a  repertory  of 

tliwikifica.1  information,  and  later  times  as  an  inexhaustible  fund  of 

"«malic  in  oi  dent. 

01  that  which  is  called  by  Mr.  Douce  the  English  G'sti,  it  row 
""Ulna  to  speak.  "  This  work  waa  utidouoledlij  composed  in  Entflar.i 
ra  "■station  uf  the  other;  and  therefore  it  will  be  necessary  for  tbe 
fotun  to  distinguish  thu  two  works  by  tha  respective  appellations  uf 


jtxxiv  introduction. 

the  anginal  and  the  EnglUh  Gt*ta." '  "  It  is  natural  to  suppose  that. 
*  work  like  the  original  Ottia  would  stimulate  suae  person  to  the 
compilation  of  one  that  should  emnlate,  if  not  altogether  supersede 
it;  and  accordingly  this  design  was  accomplished  at  a  very  early 
period  by  some  Englishman — in  all  probability,  a  monk."  ■  The 
fueling  on  my  mind  with  regard  to  this  Gesta  certainly  is,  that  it 
wis  intended  for  the  same  work  as  the  original :  bnt  that  in  the 
transcription,  with  the  latitude  which  the  "Adam  seriveners"  of  old 
insariably  allowed  themselves,  many  alterations  (miscalled  improve- 
ments) were  made,  together  with  some  additions.  The  English 
translations  of  this  last  compilation  vary  frequently  from  their 
original.  For  instance,  in  the  eighteenth  chapter  of  the  MS. 
["  English  "]  Gesta,  fol.  17,  a  knight  falls  in  love  with  Aglaes,  daugh- 
ter of  the  Emperor  PoLKsnvs ;  bnt  in  the  English  translation  of 
the  story  (in  1648,  a  thin  ISmo,  containing  forty-four  stories)  this 
BDme  person  is  styled  PntLOKntVS.  It  forms  "Tho  fourteenth 
History-"  Mow,  the  fact  that  no  manuscript  of  this  Gesta  exists 
in  any  of  the  catalogues  of  continental  libraries  is  easily  accounted 
for.  on  the  supposition  of  its  being  transcribed  in  England,  and 
consequently  confined  to  this  country.  For  other  nations,  being  it 
possession  of  an  authenticated  original,  would  have  little  inducement 
to  seek  after  a  newly  fabricated  copy.  English  verses  found  therein, 
with  English  proper  names,  and  English  law  terms,  and  modes  of 
speech  (arguments  on  which  Mr.  Donee  lays  much  stress),  no  more 
constitnte  another  work  than  Horace's  .lrt  o/  Poetry,  translated  by 
Roscommon;  or  than  Donne's  Satires,  modernised  by  Pope. 

As  the  annexed  tales  gave  occasion  to  some  of  Shakespeare's 
plays,  and  moreover  are  not  defeotive  in  that  kind  of  interest  which 
is  the  peculiar  merit  of  such  things,  I  shall  transcribe  as  many  as 
appear  in  the  English  translation,1  following  Mr.  Douce  s  arrange, 
ment,  in  order  to  show  that  fcbo  difference  hot  woo  u  the  two  Gestas  is 
not  so  wide  as  this  gentleman  appears  to  imagine.  Such  as  are  of 
Too  interest,  I  shall  omit. 


INTRODUCTION. 


CHAPTER  I. 


There  reigned  b> 


e  time  in  Home  *, 


«i  and  mighty  emi 


':.v.',.' 


a  shield  of  nilve 

be  loved  much ;  he  had  also  continual 
war  he  lost  all  his  temporal  goods 

ed,  uever- 


Aosflm,  who  (lid  bear 

this  emperor  had  three  sons  mi 

war  Kilo  the  king  of  Egypt,  in 

eicept  a  precious  tree.     It  fortuned  niter  on  a  nay  mi 

the  name  king  of  Egypt,  wherein  he  was  grievous!: 

theless  he  obtained    tlie    victory,    notnitii standing  1 

"wound ;  wherefore  while  he  lay  at  point  of  death,  be  called 

eldest  son,  and  said:  My  dear  and  well-beloved  son,  all  my  temporal 

riches  are  spent,  and  almost  nothing  is  left  me,  but  a  precious  tree,  [he 

which  stands  in  the  midst,  of  my  empire  ;  I  give  fa  thee  all  that  is  under 

the  earth,  and  above  the  earth  of  the  same  tree.     0  my  reverend  father 

(quoth  he)  I  thank  yon  raoeb. 

Then  said  the  emperor,  cnll  to  me  my  second  son.  Anon  the  eldest 
•on  greatly  joying  [if  his  father's  gift,  called  in  his  brother;  and  when 
he  came,  the  i-ni|'W"t  sui-J.  niv  doar  son,  I  may  not  make  my  testami    ' 

forasmuch  as  I  have  spent  all  rr J- '  -  ' «■- -•■  -*— J 

the  midst  of  mini 

ia  great  and  smal 

thank  you  much. 

Theti  M-3  "•- 


II  my  goods,  e 


tree  I  bequen 
and  said,  My 


ic  emperor,  call  to  me  my  third  son,  and  so  it  was  done. 
Ana  wnen  ne  was  come,  the  emperor  said,  My  dear  son,  I  must  die  of 
these  wounds,  and  I  have  only  a  precious  tree,  of  which  I  have  given 
thy  brethren  their  |iortion,  and  tu  thee  I  bequeath  thy  portion:  for  I 
will  that  thou  have  of  the  said  tree  all  that  is  wet  and  dry.  Then  said 
lis  son,  Father,  I  thank  you.  Soon  after  the  emperor  had  made  his 
bequest,  be  died.  And  shortly  after  the  eldest  son  took  possession  of  the 
tree.  Now  when  the  second  son  heard  ihis.  lie  came  to  him,  saying,  My 
brother,  by  what  law  or  title  occupy  you  thiB  tree  ?  Dear  brother,  4 until 
he,  I  occupy  it  by  this  title,  mj  father  gave  mo  all  that  is  under  the 
earth,  and  above  of  the  said  tree,  by  reason  thereof  the  tree  is  mine. 
Unknowing  to  thee,  quoth  the  second  brother,  he  gave  unto  me  all  that 
is  great  and  small  of  the  said  tree,  and  therefore  I  have  a»  great  right  in 


Oh  ;. 


s  y... 


This  hearing  tl 
brethren,  it  beho 
right  in  the  trei 


fcyou: 


is  ye,  for  by  the  1 
md,  for  of  truth 


ive  for  this  tree,  for 

he  gave  me  of  the 
eo  by  right  ia  mine 


Isst  will  and  te 

said  tree  all  that  is  wet  and  dry,  and  th 

but  forasmuch  as  your  words  are  of  great  fur 

counsel  is,  that  we  be  judged  by  reason :  for  it 

mendable  that  strife  or  dissension  should  be  ai 

dwelieth  a  king  full  o!  reason,  therefore  to 

and  each  of  us  lay  his  right  before  him;  and  as  he  shall  judge,  let  111 

stand  to  bis  judgment:    then  said   his  brethren  thy  counsel  is  good, 

wherefore  they  went  all  three  unto  the  king  of  reason,  anil  each  of  them 

severally  sheweth  fortli  his  right  unto  him,  as  it  is  said  before. 

When  tho  king  had  heard  the  titles,  ho  rehearsed  them  all  again 
severally  :  Firat,  saying  to  the  eldest  soil  thus :  You  say  (quoth  the  king) 
that  your  father  gave  you  all  that  is  under  the  earth  and  above  the  earth 
of  the  Raid  tree.  And  to  the  second  brother  he  bequeathed  all  that  is 
small  of  that  tree.    And  to  the  third  brother  he  gave  all  that 


great  and  s: 


I 


VI  INTRODUCTION. 

And  with  that  he  laid  the  law  to  them,  and  «aid  that  this  will  onght 
to  stand. 

Now  my  dear  friends,  briefly  I  shall  satisfie  all  your  requests,  aid 
when  he  had  thus  said,  he  turned  him  uoto  the  eldest  brother,  saying, 
My  dear  friend,  if  you  list  to  abide  the  judgment  of  right,  it  behoveth 
you  to  be  letten  blood  of  the  right  arm.  My  lord  (quoth  he),  your  will 
shn.ll  bo  done.  Then  the  king  called  for  a  discreet  physician,  command- 
ing him  to  let  him  blood. 

When  the  oldest  eon  was  letten  blood,  the  kinjr  said  unto  them  all 
three:  My  dear  friends,  where  is  your  father  buried?  then  answered 
they  a.n.1  said  :  forsooth  my  lord  in  such  a  place.  Anon  the  king  com- 
manded to  dig  in  the  ground  for  the  body,  and  to  take  a  bono  out  of  his 
breast,  and  to  bury  the  body  again  :  and  so  it  was  doae.     And  when  in* 


if  the  alder  iwilnT,  ,.> 

be  washt  with  (liar  wal 
.nded:  and  when  thev  ! 
■ay  ;  wIibu  the  king  s 
—  l-  letten  blot» 

iiui:ik-._i.  D 


in  the  (.__.  . 
r :  his  serial: 


i  dried,  i 


that  thou 


a  fulfilled  all  that  he  had 
they  began  to  wash,  the  blood  vanished  alcail 
aw  this,  he  aaid  to  the  second  sou,  It  behoveth. 
1,  as  thy  brother  was.  Then  said  he,  My  lord's 
id  anon  he  was  done  unto  like  as  his  brother  was 
they  began  to  wash  the  hone,  the  blood  vanished 
away.  Then  said  the  king  to  Ihe  third  son,  It  behoveth  thee  to  be  letten 
blood  likewise,  lie  m^w.-rcd  ,111.1  Kin!.  Mv  l..,id  it  please th  me  well  so  to 
be.  When  the  youngest  brother  was  letten  blood,  and  done  nuto  in  all 
things  as  the  two  bn'thrijii  wen:  hef ore,  then  the  king's  servants  began 
to  wash  the  bono,  but  neither  for  washing  nor  rubbing  might  tl 
away  the  blood  of  the  bone,  but  it  ever  appeared  bloody  :  r1 —  ' 
saw  thia,  he  said  it  appenretli  openly  now  that  this  blood  is 


thee  the  tr 


i  fur  cvurmor 


is  true  sou,  aud  the  other  two  i 


they  do 
he  king 

e  bastards,  I  judga 


CHAPTER  II. 


In  Borne  there  dwelt  sometimes  a  noble  emperor,  named  Diocletian, 
who  loved  exceedingly  the  vertue  of  charity,  wherefore  he  desired 
greatly  to  know  what  fowl  loved  her  young  best,  tn  the  intent  that  he 
might  thereby  grow  to  more  perfect  chaii:y  ;  it  1  u'Miiuil  upon  a  day, 
that  the  emperor  rode  to  a  forrest  totaki-  !ii«  .Li:.<....it,  ulu-it^lm  found  (he 
nest  of  a  great  bird,  (called  in  Latin  Uruehio  eelemi,  in  English  an 
oatridge)  with  her  vuung,  thewhieli  young  bird  tl.e  emperor  took  with  him, 
and  closed  her  in  a  vessel  of  glass,  the  .lain  of  this  little  bird  followed 
nuto  the  emperor's  palace,  and  Haw  iuto  the  hall  where  her  young  one 
was.  But  when  she  saw  her  young  one,  nod  could  u.,i  tunic  to  her,  uor 
get  her  out,  she  returned  again  to  the  forrest,  and  abode  there  three 
days,  and  at  the  last  she  came  again  to  ttu  palace,  bearing  in  her  mouth 

she  let  the  worm  fall  upon  the  glass,  by  virtue  of  whicl    

1  young  one. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

"The    emperor  Gauterus,"   &e,— This  is    Tale  CI.  of   the  origiiM 
sta  ;  and,  a»  the  reader  will  see,  not  related  with  much  variety. 


diligently  to  delivor  hi 

"The   emperor  G 
Geita  ;  and,  aa  the  ret 


hd  n 


INTRODUCTION. 


CHAPTER  XTIII. 

e  dwelt  a  mighty  ei 


if  and  gracioi 


I  promise  yi.u 


i  gentle  knight  that  loved  dearly  this  lady.  It  b-fel  after  on  a  day,  th  it 
thin  knight  bilked  with  this  lady,  and  secretly  uttarod  his  desire  to  her. 
Then  she  said  <;ourt.'i>u:-.!v.  Seeing  i-oa  lim-r-  uttered  to  me  tlie  secrets  o, 
jour  henrt,  T  will  likewise  for  your  love  utter  to  you  the  secrets  of  my 
heart,  and  truly  I  lay,  that  above  all  other  I  hive  you  beet.  Then  Mid 
the  knight,  1  purpose  to  visit  the  Holy  Land,  and  therefore  give  ma  your 
troth,  that  this  seven  yours  you  shall  take  no  other  man,  but  only  for  my 
love  to  tarry  fur  me  so  long,  and  if  I  Dome  not  again  by  this  day  seven 
yearn,  then  take  what  man  you  like  best.  And  likewise  I  pr 
that  within  this  seven  year»  I 

covenant  please  til  ma  well.  When  ima  was  saiu,  eaen  ui  iiumi  wls 
trothed  to  other,  and  then  this  knight  took  his  leave  of  tin;  inly, 
■went  to  the  Holy  Laud.  Shortly  after  tin-  ■--:,[■  o !■■  :■  tivattd  with  the  I 
of  Hungary  for  the  marriage  of  his  daughter.  Than  cumo  Iho  kit 
Hungary  to  the  emperor's  palace,  to  see  his  daughter,  and 
«ecu  hor,  he  liked  marvellous  well  her  beauty  and  her  b«ha 
the  emperor  and  the  king  were  accorded  in  all  things  as  touching  the 
nuniage,  upon  the  condition  th.it  the  dumsel  would  eminent.  Then 
nUed  the  Bmperor  the  young  lady  to  him,  and  said,  O  my  fair  daughter, 
1  have  provided  for  thee,  that  a  king  shall  be  thy  husband,  if  thou  list 

lie  to  her  father,  It  pleaseth  tuo  well :   but  one  thing,  dear  father,  I 
intreat  of  you.  ■"  .11  to  grant  me  ;  I  have  vowed  to  keep 

my  virginity   and  not  to  uuirrv  itu>s.j  *ihi  v-(-ar.-i ;  thm-fure,  dear  father, 
iWcchyouforall  thole-  "-- 


king  of 
he  had 


■,  liiat  you  name  no  man  tu  l.i!  my  l.ura.iiid    till   these  Bevu.. 

ed,  and  then  I  shall  bo  ready  iu  all  things  to   fulfil  youi 

Then  said  the  emperor,  Sith  it  is  so  that  thou  hast  thus  vowed,  I  w 


break  thy  vow, . 

Unking  of  Hungary  to  thy  h'i'i. .,:>.]. 
it  forth  hi   ■ 


eipired,  thou  shalt  h 


j  king  of  Hungary,  prny- 

fflE  Win  if  it  might  please  liim  to  stay  «even  i-imm  fur  ilu'  hive  of  his 
daughter,  and  then  ho  should  speed  without  fail.  Herewith  the  king  was 
pleued  and  content  to  stay  the  prefixed  day. 

Aud  when  the  seven  years  wore  oudcJ,  save  a  day,  the  young  lady 
■tan!  in  her  chamber  window,  aud  went  sure,  saying,  Woo  and  alas,  aj 
to-morrow  my  love  promised  to  be  with  mo  again'  from  tho  Holy  Land  : 
"d  sljo  the  king  of  Hungary  to-morrow  will  be  here  to  marry  mo, 
■..'.  [other'!  promise  :  and  if  my  love  comes  not  at  a  certain 
bow.  then  am  I  utterly  deceived  of  the  inward  love  I  bear  to  him. 

WVm  foe  Jny  came,  the  king  hasted  toward  tho  emperor,  to  marry 
ois  daughter,  and  was  royally  arrayed  iu  purple.  And  while  the  king 
*•»  tiding  on  his  way,  there  came  a  knight  riding  on  his  way,  .■. 
I™  of  the  empire  of  Rome,  and  now  am  lately  tome  from  the  Holy  Laud, 
™imii  ready  to  do  you  the  best  service  I  can.  And  as  they  rode  talking 
"Xtta  way,  it  began  to  rain  so  fast,  that  all  the  king's  pippurul  was  sure 
'"'  ■  '--■  ■-■  i l  said  tho  knight,  My  lord  ye  have  done  foolishly,  for  as  much 
«F  brought  not  with  you  your  house:  then  said  th.' king;  Why  Kp.-aJ:.-.; 
«"■«  so  i  My  hcuae  is  large  and  broad,  and  made  of  stones,  aud  mortar. 
»"*  ilitjulU  i  bring  then  with  me,  my  house  f  thou  ipeakait  like  a  fool. 


■ 


xxxvill  INTRODUCTION. 

When  this  wo»  said,  they  rode  on  till  they  came  to  s  great  deep  wafer, 
»nd  the  king  emote  his  Imrse  with  hie  spurs,  and  leapt  into  tho  water,  »o 
that  he  wan  llmott  ilirumJ.  When  the  knight  «aw  this,  anil  wu  over 
on  the  other  side  of  tho  wat it  without  peril,  he  said  to  the  king:,  Yo  were 
in  peril,  and  therefore  je  did  foolish  Iv,  heeausn  you  brought  nut  with  yon 
your  bridge.  Then  said  the  king.  Thou  apeakest  strangely,  raj  bridge  is 
made  of  lirao  and  stunt1,  and  cnutaiuoth  in  finality  more  than  half  a  mile: 
how  should  t  then  hour  with  me  ray  bridge  I  thanfare  tliou  speakeet 
foolishly.  Well,  si  id  (lie  kniiiht.  inv  foolishness  may-turn  thee  to  wisduru. 
When  tim  king  had  ridden  a  little  further,  lie  asked  the  knight  what  time 
of  day  it  was.  Then  said  the  knight,  If  any  man  hath  list  to  eat,  it  is 
lime  el'  the  day  to  eat,  Yt'hoi-i  fore  my  lord,  pray  take  a  moiiieum  with 
me,  for  that  is  no  dishonour  to  you,  hut  great  honour  to  me  before  the 
state»  of  this  empire:  Then  said  the  king,  I  will  gladly  eat  with  thee. 
They  sat  both  down  in  a  fair  vine  garden,  ami  (lino  dim -ii  together,  both 
the  king  and  tho  knight.  And  when  dinner  was  dine,  and  that  the  kirij; 
had  washed,  tho  keielii  said  unto  tlie  king.  My  lord  ye  have  dene  foolishly, 
for  that  yu  brought  not  with  von  yi.nr  father  nnd  mother.  Then  said  the 
king,  what  siiyost  thou  r  My  father  in  drn.1,  ami  my  mother  is  old,  and 
may  not  travel,  how  should  I  tlun  hung  ihom  with  me  »  t  bore  lore  to  say 
the  truth, a  foelisher  mini  (ban  llion  ml  did  1  never  hear.  Then  said  the 
knight,  Kveiv  work  is  pmJM-d  at  the  end. 

When  the  knight  bud  ridden  a  liti.le  i'ui  iher,  mid  nigh  to  the  emperor'» 
palace,  he  asked  lnvr  to  go  from  hi  in.  lot  bo  knew  n  nearer  way  to  the 
palnce,  to  the  young  holy,  thai  lie  might  rome  lirst,  and  eany  her  away 
with  him.     Then  said  the  kiiu:,  1  prav  thee  ti'll  me  by  what  plaeu  thou 

Siirposest  to  ride;  Then  said  the  kni'glil,  I  shall  tell  you  the  truth:  this 
ay  seven  yearn  1  left  n  net  in  n  ptaee.  and  now  1  jiui-pose  to  visit  it,  and 
draw  it  to  me,  ami  if  it  bo  lvtiob',  then  will  I  lake  it  In  me,  and  keep  it  as 
a  preoious  jewel  ;  ii  it  he  broken,  ilmu  will  1  leave  it  :  and  when  he  had 
thus  said,  he  took  his  leave  of  the  king,  and  rode  forth,  hut  the  king  kept 
the  broad  highway. 

When  the  emperor  beard  of  the  king'*  romitig,  he  went  towards  him 
With  a  great  company,  nnd  royally  reeeived  him,  causing  him  to  shift  his 
wet  cloalhs,  ami  to  put  on  fier.li  apparel.     And  when  the  emperor  and 

the  king  were  set  at  merit,  tl mpoior  woleoimil  him  with  all  the  clioar 

"-—  he  hud  oaten,  the  emperor  asked 

,  I  shall  toll  you  what  I  have  huard 

a  knight  l.o  nn-,  and  reverently  saluted 
mo;  and  anon  a  ft  er  tlu-iv  fell  a  great  lain,  and  greatly  .-(■■  Ufit  my  apparel. 
And  anon  the  k  nig  hi  said.  Sir,  vtiai  .■  den-  foolishly,  for  thul  \e  brought 
'  1  the  emperor.  What  cloathmg  had  tha 


>t  willi  yi'ii  your  house,    Ttieii  said  II 
'* — *"  quoth  the  king. 

ie  house  whereof  ho  spake  was 


knight  en  P     A  cloak,  quoth  the  king.     Thou  said  the  emperor, 


.donk,  then  your  tlontlis  had  not  been  si. 

king,  when  he  had  ridden  a  little  further,  no  eame  to  a  deep  water,  and  I 
smote  my  horse  with  my  spurs,  and  I  was  almost  drowned,  but  he  rid 

through  tho  «liter  wit! t  any  poll  I  :  I  hen  said  lie  lo  mi  ,  Von  did  foolishly, 

for  that  you  brought  not  with  you  your  luiiigo.  V.  nl>  saiil  rle.  einpi'i'or, 
he  saith  truth,  for  he  railed  the  «quires  the  bridge,  lliar  should  have  ridden 
before  you,  and  assayed  the  deepness  ,-f  the  water.  Then  said  the  king,  w 
"  '  i  prayed  mo  to  dine  wi*"  ' ' 
wisely,  because  I  brou 
tho  omporor,  ho  nan  a 


INTKODUCTKWJ. 


[wisely]  :  for  hi-  called  your  father  and 
victual.  Then  said  the  king,  we  rode  i 
leave  to  go  from  me,  and  I  asked  ci 
answered  again,  and  said,  This  day  m 
place,  and  now  I  will  ride  to  see  it ;  a 
will  I  leare  it,  but  if  it  be  as  I  left  i 
precious.  When  the  emperor  heard  tl 
Mid,  O  yc  mv  knights  and  servi 


then  shii.il  il 


me'right 


Fiiid,  O  ye  my  knight?  and  sei  viinrs,  cum-  ye  with  me  speedily  unto  my 
daughter's  chamber,  for  surely  that  in  (he  net  of  which  he  sp*ke',  ami 
I rthwith  his  knights  and  servants  want  onto  his  daughter's  chamber. 


snd  found  her  not,  for  the  afun 
And  thus  the  king  was  deceive  " 
to  his  own  country  ashamed. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 

i  wise  emperour,  i 


Theodosius  reigned,  a  wise  emperour,  in  the   city  of  Rome,   i 
mighty  he  was  of  power;  the  which  emperour  had  threj  drinulitiTi- 
it  liked  to  this  emperour  to  know  which  of  hi»  daughters  loved  him  ht 
And  then  he  said  lo  the  eldest  daughter,  How  much  lovest  thou  ci 
Forsooth,  quoth  she,  more  than  I  do  myself.    Therefore,  quoth  he,  thou 
■halt  be  highly  advanced,  and  married  her  to  a  rich  and  mighty  king. 
Then  he  came  to  the  second,  and  said  to  her,  Daughter,  how  much  loveit 
tliou    me?     As  much,    forsooth,   said   she,   as    I  do    myself.      80  the 
emperour  married   her   to   a  duke.      Aud   then  he   said  to   the  third 
daughter,  Hf.w  much  Invest  thmi  nn,  ■■  Forsooth.  ((in<tli  shij.  im  much  as  ye 
be  worthy,  and  no  more.     Then  said  the  emperour,  Daughter,  silh  thou 
lovest  me  un  more,  thou  shalt  not  bo  married  so  richly  as  thy  sisters  be. 
And  then  he  married  her  to  an  earl.     After  this  it  happened  that  the 
emperour  held  battle  against  the  king  of  Egypt.     And  the  king  drove 
the  etujjeruur  out  of  the  empire,  in  so  much  that  the  emperour  lind  no 
ihide  in.     So  he  wrote  letters,  ensealed  with  his  ring,  to  his 
'     -self,  foi   ' 


,t  daughter,  that  said  that  she  loved  b 


pray  her  of  si 


it  great  need,  because  he 


empire.  And  when  the  daughter  hod  read  these  letters,  she  told  it  to 
the  king,  her  husband.  Then,  quoth  the  king,  it  is  good  that  we  succour 
him  in  ibis  need.     I  shall,  quoth  he,  gathercn  an  host  and  help  him  in 


-l,;,ll.   .-ni.-.'t 
-,  and  that 


o  the  father,  that 

'  '    (  to  be  in  hi* 

the  emperour 

id  therefore  I 


..II  that  I  can  or  may. 

to  be  in  fellowship  with  him, 

was  ydone  indeed.     And  the  daughter 

other  help  might  he  not  have  but  live  knights  01  me  x 

fellowship,  at  the  cost  of  the  kinp  her  husband.    And  wh 

beard  this,  he  area  heavy  in  his  heart,  and  said,  alas !  al 

was  in  her,  for  she  taid  she  loved  me  more  than  herself, 

advanced  her  so  high. 

Then  he  wrote  to  the  second  that  said  she  loved  him  a*  much  aa  her- 
self, and  when  she  had  read  his  letters,  she  shewed  his  errand  to  her 
husband,  and  gave  him  in  counsel  that  he  should  Hod  him  meat  and 
drink  and  clothing  honestly,  as  for  the  state  of  such  a  lord  during  time 
of  his  need.  And  when  this  was  granted,  she  wrote  letters  again  to  her 
father.  The  emperor  was  heavy  with  this  answer,  and  said,  Silh  my 
two  daughters  have  thus  treated  me,  soothly  I  shall  prove  the  third, 
And  90  he  wrote  to  the  third,  that  said  she  loved  him  as  much  as  he  was 

rtly,  and  pwyed  her  of  succour  in  his  need,  and  told  her  the  answer 


INTRODUCTION, 

of  her  two  sister*.  So  the  third  daughter,  wheo'she  had  considered  the 
mischief  of  her  father,  she  told  her  husband  in  this  form  :  My  worship- 
ful lord,  do  succour  me  now  in  this  great  need,  tuy  father  »  put  out  uf 
his  empire  end  his  heritage.  Then  spake  be,  What  were  thy  will  I  do 
thereto?  That  ye  gather  a  great  host,  quoth  she,  and  help  him  to 
tight  against  his  enemies.  I  shell  fulfil  thy  will,'  said  the  earl,  and 
gathered  a  great  host,  und  went  with  the  emperour  at  his  own  oostage  to 
the  battle,  and  had  the  victory,  and  set  the  emperour  again  in  his 
heritage.  And  then  said  the  emperour,  Blessed  be  the  hour  I  gat  my 
youngest  daughter :  I  loved  her  less  than  any  of  the  other,  and  now  in 
my  need  she  hath  succoured  me,  and  the  other  have  yfailed  me;  and 
therefore  after  my  death  she  shall  have  mine  empire.  And  so  it  was 
dons  indeed ;  for  after  the  death  of  the  emperour,  the  youngest  daughter 
reigned  in  his  stead,  and  ended  peaceably.  —  Hael.  MS.  No.  7333. 


CHAPTER  XXT. 

There  was  a  powerful  emperor  called  Andronious,  before  whom 
knight  wmb  wrongfully  accused.  When  the  charge  could  not  be  snbstan 
*■"■■  -najesty  proposed  to  him  certuinpusslmg  questions,  which  wer 
itefy  answered,  under  pain  of  death,  The  knight  expresse< 
himself  ready  to  do  his  heat.  Thmi  said  the  emperor,  How  far  i 
h.'avfiu  distant  from  hell  *  That  is  the  first  question.  As  far,  repliei 
he,  as  a  sigh  is  from  the  heart. 


height.  As 
Emperor.  H 
KntghU  Giv 
tell  you. 

££= 

jmber  of  flaggous  ol 

re  there  in 
frith  wai 

the  sea  ? 
;er,  and  I  will 

Enperor.   To   the   first 
between  heaven  and  hell,  h 
llnv  H-jLTL  this  be  ? 

Knight.  A  sigh  passes  fi 
ami  iu  like  manner  the  soul 

question  you  answered,   that 
as  us  great  as  between  a  sigh  a 

■■■in  the  heart  with  tho  rapidity 
goes  from  the  body  into  a  sta 

the  distune» 
ud  the  heart. 

of  a  glance; 

Emptrw.   Hn  is  the  depth  of  the  sea  a  stone'B  throw  ? 
Knight.  All  weight  rti-i-c/mls  .  ami  lin/ausi:  a  stem;  is  henvy  it  d 
to  the  bottom  of  the  tea  at  once.     Its  depth  is  therefore  a  alonSa  thr, 

t  Emperor.  And  how,  if  you  knew  the  number  of  fhiggons  of  f 
Knight.  Be  good  enough  to  try  it.  Begin  the  reckoning  yourself. 
I 


CHAPTER  XXYT. 
Bononius  was  emperor  of  Rome,  &c.,  &c. 

*"  is  is  the  same  story  u  Tale  CXXXH.  of  the  original  Geata.    Ontr- 
by  Mr.  Bolter, 


Mr- 


INTRODUCTION. 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 
olonius  governed  the  city  of  Rome  with  groat  wisdom.     He  a 

ticeeiliiigly  fond  of  the  game  of  chess;  aud  observing,  on  one  r 

tilt  when  the  men  were  replaced  in  his  bag  si  usual,  tbe  king  was 
loafomided  with  the  inferior  pieces,  it  led  him  to  redeotions  upon  the 
™u:y  of  human  greatuess.  He  thereupon  determines  to  make  a  triple 
■*"  '"Tgdom,  und  hasten  to  the  Holy  Land.     He  did  to,  aiul 


CHAPTER  XXX. 


Trie  timporor  Avcrrhocs,  4c,  io. 

This  is  the  story  of  the  knight  Placiclus,  in  Tale  CX.  of  the 
«npinal  Gesta,  with  some  variations.    This  also  Mr,  Douce  has  omitted 

CHAPTER  XXXI, 

The  following  tale,  together  with  Mr.  Douce'a  remarks,  I  extract, 
*"iatini,  from  the  second  volume  ol  tlie  {/italr-ilnint  "J  ■'■■"nktipetui.  It 
'■ -I']». iifil  in  ](,urnts,  under  liii-  icJgn  of  one  Plebeks,  a-^ording  to  the 
"(.  It  should  be  premised  that  the  first  part  of  the  story  resemble* 
IsloLXIX. 

'A  luw  was  made  at  pome  that  the  sentinels  of  the  city  should  each 
nipil  L-iauiiofi  what  was  passing  in  all  the  houses,  BO  that  do  private 
ini.idbr'-,  should  be  committed,  nor  anything  done  whereby  the  city 
should  be  endangered.  It  happened  that  an  old  knight  mimed  Joaiaa 
hid  married  a  young  and  beautiful  woman  who,  by  the  sweetness  of  her 
Mifinj!,  attracted  many  persons  to  bis  house,  several  of  whom  came  for 
tltpwpoBB  of  making  love  to  her.  Among  these  were  three  young  men 
'Id  Hen  high  in  the  emperor's  favour.  They  respectively  agreed  with 
the  woman  lor  a  private  assignation,  for  which  «ho  waa  to  receive 
twtuty  marks.  She  discloses  the  matter  to  her  husband,  bat  not 
(hueiue  ii  give  up  the  money,  prevails  on  him  to  consent  to  the  murder 
—  "-"liag  of  their  persons.  Thia  te  accomplished, 
o  cellar.  The  woman,  mindful  of  trie  new 
J»»  mat  bad  been  made,  sends  for  one  of  the  sentinels,  who  waa  her 
wither,  pretends  that  her  husband  had  killed  a  man  in  a  quarrel,  and 
["«"uIb  on  him,  for  a  reward,  to  dispose  of  the  dead  body.  She  then 
«tiller?  to  him  the  lirfit  ol  the  young  men,  whom  he  put  into  a  sack,  and 
"■''■■xi-  into  the  sea.  On  hi»  rtViitn  to  the  sister,  she  pretends  to  go  in», 
'lis  cellar  to  draw  wine,  and  cries  out  for  help.  When  the  sentinel 
m"n  to  her,  she  tells  him  that  the  dead  man  is  returned.  At  this,  be  of 
wune  «presses  much  surprise,  but  putting  the  second  body  into  his 
"•«i  ties  a  atone  round  its  ntnk  and  plunges  it  into  the  sea.  Returning 
''Ms  more,  the  woman,  with  additional  arte,  piaya  the  same  part  again. 
afsui  be  is  deceived,  and  taking  away  the  third  body,  carries  it  into  a 
■Mat,  makes  a.  tire,  and  consumes  it"  During  tliia  operation  he  baa 
wc*fl]on  to  retire,  and  in  the  mean  time  a  knight  on  horseback,  who  was 
P'ifRto  a  tournament,  passes  by,  and  alights  to  warm  himself  al  the 
■"•■  On  the  other's  return,  the  knight  is  mistaken  for  tbe  dead  man, 
"'■il  mth  many  bitter  words  thrown  into  tbe  tire,  bona  and  all.'  The 
"I'hntl  goes  back  to  bis  sister,  and  receives  the  stipulated  reward.    A 

'  Siiiinf  uiae  the  Irtfksl  jam  at  tins  story,  It  would  be  susceptible  of  auk 


xlii 


INTRODUCTION. 


■;:n 


hue  and  cry  had  noiv  1 u  in  oh.'  .ifl^r  1  lie  young  men  who  win-  Tm.-nii^. 

Tlre  husband  and  wife  engage  in  it  quorrol,  and  the  murder  i.«  of  com» 

discovered. 

"This  story  has  been  immediately  taken  from  The  Seven  Wise  Matlrta, 
rere  it  forma  tin'  rjumph-  of  the  sixth  muster.     Tim  groundwork  is, 

■m,  in  The  little '  hnnehhieled  Uiylnr  of  The  Arabian  Sight*.  It  win 
potted  into  Europe  very  early,  and  fell  into  Ihe  hands  of  the  lively 
d  entertaining  l'i'  n.Ji  r>iiii-li..l-.  wli.i  tiavc  heated  it  in  various  ways. 
Been  in  Le  (irand.  Vabhaui  it  Vmiti-n,  torn,  iv.,  where  it  is 
times.  The  =ev,.,.,l  imitations  .if  it.  from  The  Sere»  '■'..„■ 
Masters  may  be  found  in  all  ihe  edition!  of  Prince  Erastttt,  un  Italia" 
iiuiiliricjiljoii  '  of  the  Wise  Min-lrrs.  It  form»  tin-  substance  of  a  well- 
constructed  and  entertaining  story  of  two  friars,  John  ami  Richard,  who 
nre  said  to  have  resided  rit  Norwich,  in  the  reign  of  Henri-  t lit  Fil'ih. 
This  is  related  in  Hevwood's  fl«/«i»  „f  III;»,,,.  ni,-l,r  the  title  of  The 
,a;,    W»   ./Jfcn      '" 

ttraordmiiry  niniin.'r,   I. 

rddition  of  the  murder 

s  Erpingham,  a.  well-known  character,'  In 
an  old  English  pmn  entitled,  A  merry  je.it 
■nek  of  Leic  ftr,\  nt«l  i,-a:  he  wax  !'„air  In,,.,  uluiii.  nail 
wee  hanged.  Prin1,-d  ai  l,oml..ri,  l,y  ,1.  Aid.-,  in  -It...,  without  date.  This 
-  ].i-iiljiihiv  ths  same  story,  which  has  certainly  been  borrowed  from  one 
>f  those  related  by  the  Norman  minstrels." 


K.-.r  I 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 
n  also  indebted  to  the  III 


n    (lire 


iHHtt,  *e. 

.vided.     Ne* 


He 
:o  this 


bree  uuupk  wen;  provided.  Sni  tu  tins 
ie  loved  his  falcon  and  his  greyhound.  It  happened  one  day  that 
he  was  called  to  a  l.mi  nrini.nl,  whirlier  his  wife  and  domestics  went  alto, 
leaving  the  child  in  the  cradle,  the  gnyhoBod  lying  bj  him,  and  the 
falcon  on  bia  perch.     A  serpent  that  inhabited  a"  hole  near  the  castle, 

taking  advantage  of  the  profound  silcnn-  Hint  r,  iu: 1.  crept  from  In! 

habitation  and  odvnuued  towards  the  cradle  to  di-v the  child.     The 

falcon,  perceiving  the  danger,  II  uttered  with  bis  wings  till  ho  awoke  the 
dog,  who  instantly  attacked  the  invi.il.-r-,  uii.l  after  n  fierce  conflict,  in 
which  he  was  sorely  wounded,  killed  him.  He  then  lay  down  on  the 
ground  to  lick  and  heal  his  won  nils  When  111.' nurses  returned  they  found 
the  cradle  overturned,  the  child  thrown  out,  and  the  ground  covered 
with  blood,  as  welt  a»  Hie  d"y,  who.  thev  immediately  concluded,  had 
killed  the  child.  Terrified  at  the  idea  of  meeting  ihe  anger  of  the 
parents,  they  determined  to  escape,  hut  iu  their  flight  fell  in  with  their 
*o  whom  they  were  compelled  to  relate  the  supposed  murder  of 


rod  tally,  lii-  Mr  J.. .lull,  mi  .i.'i  i i,ui  i.i  mc  h„,i:Ki 


INTRODUCTION. 

thscbild  bj  the  greyhound.  The  knight  aooii  arrived  to  hear  tho  sad 
tl'-i.  liiJ.  maddened  with  fury,  rushed  forward  to  the  spot.  The  poor 
■ouniltd  and  faithful  animal  made  uii  effort  to  rise,  :ind  welcome  his 
nuter  with  hia  accustomed  fondness;  but  the  enraged  knight  riwiv.J 
him  ns  tie  point  of  hia  sword,  and  he  fell  lifeless  to  the  ground.  On 
uiminsiiou  of  the  crudle  the  Infant  was  found  alien  and  unhurt,  und 
the  dead  serpent  lying  by  bim.  The  knight  now  perceived  what  had 
lippeneJ,  lamented  bitterly  over  hi»  faithful  dog,  und  blamed  hinisi-lt 
t  r  luring  depended  too  hastily  on  tho  word»  of  Ids  wife.     Abandoning 


it  of  Ids 


"This  tale  is  likewise  borrowed  by  the  compiler  of  the  Geita,  from 
Tlittirttn  Wist  M.«ttcn.  and  of  oriental  construction.  It  is  originally  in 
Pil|*y;.  Fables,  twins;  t tint  ■■(  Thr  ■•';t.„,  .,.„/  the  hrok,  ,<  Vitthar. 

"There  is  a  very  extraordinary  tradition  in  North  Wales,  of  an 
mcijijiit  resembling  that  in  our  story  having  happened  to  Prince 
Lii-H'iillvri  «bout  the  vonr  I'.'Oi.  He  is  sold  to  have  erected  a  tomb  over 
kiifuthful  dog,  still  known  in  Carnarvonshire  by  the  name  of  Cfl/mrl'i 
Omr.'  Tliis  tradition  is  the  subject  of  an  elegant  ballad  by  the 
honourable  Mr.  Spencer,  privately  printed,  in  a  siuule  -beet,  under  the 
tills  of  jittk  (iittrt,  ■■'  tht  (Jivr't  of  the  <;>:vh>:i>,tt.  At  Abergavenny 
Priory  Church  there  is  said  In  be  l.be  ligure  ■■!  an  irintd  knight  with  ;s 
i«t  »t  hi»  feat ;  and  with  this  person,  whoever  he  was,  (he  story  of 
CtUmrt  has  also  been  connected.     But  the  dog,  us  well  as  other  animals, 


"  hsquently  found  at  the  feet  of  figur 

jr-'il-,  Ilit    subject  appears   not  uudc& 
w'i'lih  antiquaries.     It  would  be  proper, 


serving  of  the  consideration  of 
lould  be  proper,  however,  on  any  such  occasion, 

—  Ji  mind  the  uumerous  applications  of  circumstances  otto^'th.  r 
Uliulius  to  real  persons;  one  example  of  which  has  occurred  in  the 
Ituty  from  the  Qttta  that  immediately  precedes  the  present. 

"It  may  be  thought  worth  adding,  that  Virgil'*  urigiwil  (I nut 
"•Babied  in  its  outline,  as  given  by  Donatoa,  the  story  In  the  Getta.  A 
''eflmrd  there  falls  asleep  in  a  marshy  spot  of  ground ,  a  serpent 
"ifnmtlies,  and  is  about  to  kill  him.  At  thin  moment  a  glial  settle-  mi 
t"  ihepherd's  face,  stings,  and  awakens  him.  He  instinctive! v  apolics 
*»Wl  to  the  wounded  part,  and  crushes  the  gnat.  He  soon  porceivi-s 
tbst  be  had  destroyed  his  benefactor,  aud,  as  the  uuly  recompense  in  his 


CHAPTER  XLTI. 
"  Some  time  ago  in  Rome  there  dwelt  a  noble  emperor,  of  great  live- 
mooJ,  named  Alexander,  ivhicii,  above  all  venues  loved  the  vertua  of 

™j*rp»in  of  dentil  --l.i.nid  turn  :i  pl.iicc  in  Ins  di-di  al  bis  ui.mI.  but  milv 
™*  the  white  side,  and  not  the  black  ;  and  if  any  man  would  attempt  to 
™  the  contrary,  he  should  suffer  deat.li  wi:li"iil:  any  pardon  :  but  yet  ere 


INTRODUCTION. 

at  meat,  he  was  served  with  a  plaice,  and  he  which  was  an  hungry  I 
hod  elii  appetite  to  his  meat,  after  bo  had  eaten  the  white  side,  he  tur 
ami  began  to  eat  thereof :  wherefore,  straightway  lie 


led 


_ ..(.In.    Thra 

said  the  emperor,  Let  him  dye  ■uouidiiH  in  i!n-  law  «ritbont  any  delay. 

"  When  the  earl's  son  heard  that  tiis  father  should  .lip,  immediately 

he  full  down  on  both  his  kins-,  hifurv  i] m]»:™.  mid  said,  O  my  reverend 

lord,  I  moat  humbly  intrant,  you,  [hat  I  may  dye  for  my  father.  Then 
said  the  emporor,  II  pleaseth  me  well  §0  that  one  dve  for  the  offence. 
Then  said  the  earl's  son,  Sith  it  is  so  that  I  must  dve,  I  ask  the  benefit  of 
the  law,  that  is,  that  I  may  have  three  petitions  «ranted  ere  I  dye.  The 
emperor  answered  aad  said,  Ask  what  thou  wilt,"  there  shall  no  man  soy 
thee  nay. 

"  Then  said  this  young  knight,  My  lord,  you  have  but  one  daughter, 
the  which  I  desire  of  your  highness  •  •  •"  The  emperor  granted,  for 
fulfilling  of  the  laws,  though  it  were  against  his  will  •  *  ". 

"  The  second  petition  is  this,  I  ask  all  thv  treasure  ;  and  immediately 
the  emperor  granted,  because  lie  would  not  be  called  a  breaker  of  the  law. 

it  both  to  poor  and  to  rich,  by  means  «heteof  he  obtained  their  good 


"  My  third  petition 
put  out  incontinent  tl 

ihcmsuTyes^If^Iack 
r  eyes  be  put  01 


is  this,  I  aak,  my  lord,  that  all  their  eyes  may  be 
iat  saw  my  father  eat  the  black  side  01  the  plaice. 
turn  r  1  l -. ■  fhiice,  bethought  them,  and  sai'S  uiol  :u 
nowtedge  that  we  saw  him  do  this  trwpii'i-,  (hen 
it :  and  therefore  it  is  belter  that  we  hold  ua  still ; 
Ami  w  Ihere  was  none  found  that  would  accuse  him. 

"  When  the  earl's  son  heard  this,  he  said  to  the  emperor,  My  lord 
(i|iioth  he)  ye  see  there  is  no  man  aecuseth  my  father,  therefore  give  roa 
rightful  judgment.  Then  said  the  emperor.  Forasmuch  as  no  man  will 
in  S< ii -i »-]• ■<l<r«  that  thev  saw  him  turn  Die  plaice,  therefore  I  will  not  that 
thy  father  shall  die.  So  thus  the  son  Baved  his  father's  life,  and  after  the 
decease  of  the  emperor  married  his  daughter." 


CHAPTEB  XLVII. 


This  chapter,  but  with  less  i 
old  English  translation,  which 
trary  method  of  departing  from 
in  the  story,  I  pass  it. 


[It  is 


CHAPTEB  XLVIII. 

,mperor,  in  Home,  and  he  had  a  fair 

o  transcribe  this  tale  (which  in  the  origin  of  the  band 


the  drama  itstlf,  irum  \hu  1'<<-ji-oii 
tiiovanni  Fiorentino,  an  Italian  novelist,  who  wrote  in  1378.  It  occurs 
also  in  an  ol.l  English  Ms.  j,r<-.a-rvc,i  in  rh.-  Hart.  OnU-elion,  No.  733U, 
evidently  translated  from  the  <i-..t«  towwruiti  [Tkmp.  Hen.  VI. 1,  which 
Mr,  Douce  h.-m  given  in  the  1st  volume  of  his  very  entertaining  Illustra- 
tion* of  Shaketpsare,  ]i.  281.  But  as  the  Tale  of  the  Three  Vnsh.tt  has 
not  been  made  so  public,  I  insert  it  in  tbi*  place,  although  it  forms 
Chapter  CIX,  of  the  MS.  Oesta.     Sm  ait»  JfeU  11.] 


INTRODUCTION.  XI V 

iltin  Rome  a  mighty  emperor,  mimed  Anselm,  who  had 
iauehter  of  Jerusalem,  a  fair  lady,  mid  gracioua  in  the 

,  but  ahe  was  long  time  with  the  emperor  ere  she  bare 
erefore  the  nobles  of  this  tropin-  were  very  aorronfui, 
had  no  heir  of  his  owu  body  begotten  :  till  at  bat  it. 


■■,  t  two  e 
iiltle  bird  with 

■:r  -.ivi.ts   tl 


«tin:  ;    therefore   hi-   v,- 
)t.     Then  he  thought  li 

:,■■■    ..:    :...-■  i-  -.i  i-  '. 


loir,  and  how  the  khur  r,f 
...  he  hjil  no  son  to  make 
rowful,  and  went  to  hia 
"u  hie  sleep,  that 


to  be,  and  that 

her.     And  after  tie  saw  a 

ours,  am]  by  that  bird  atuod  two  boasts,  which  led  th.-i.i 
id  bowing 


vard  the  bird,  went  their  way  :  then  eiiinc  there  divem 
als  that  sung  sweetly  and  pleasantly,  with  that  the  emjiemr  awaked. 

"hitheniornilij.'  miilv  :liis  Ansel  m  relilrml •  ('.■■ I  Lis  vi-ini.  and  wondred 
'Mhwint  it  might  si(rnifie;  wherefore  lie  milled  tn  lnin  hi-  philosophers, 
i  .i.  flii-  stilus  ni  tin:-  ■  ruoit'-,  nnd  r.. .Id  rln.r::  his  d renin  .  i/luicitin;?  them 
I'.l  liira  tin;  sigiiiliiMtioii  thereof  on  pain  liI"  diutli.  and  if  the  i  told  hi  in 
In- true  interpretation  thereof,  ho  promise!  r-1 -■■.-■: ti  {.'.„„1  reward.  Theu 
■  lord,  toll  ii-  \-.iiLi-  dream,  mid  we  shall  declare  to  you  what 
bulukeua.  Then  the  cnifiuror  told  then  ' 
■J.      When    the   |,],[U- 


nipresaid. 


-Trie  lii 


mid,  Sir.  t 
:  clearer 


ilosuphers   hoard   this,    ivitl 


isi..o  that 
i  ride 


the  o 


i  the  , 


i  the  empress,  that  hath  lost  part  of  her  colour,  through  the 
■  Pinion  of  Ji  si  .in  t.Lat  .-In:  Imili  con,:,l  v.-d.  Tlio  little  I.ir.1  lid  ofceneth 
!;■—  »•-■■  rh.it  she  shall  bear.  Tho  two  boaste  that  fed  thLshird.liel.okeneth 
l!l;«k  and   riell    men  of  the  empire  whinii   drill   obey  tlio  ».n.     'llii'Hii 

Iiltiuoi  that  ahull  do  hi  in  h.  nun  ire.     Tin-  bird  thut  sung  bo  sweetly  to  this 
kenflth  the  Eomans,  who  shall   rojoyca  and  sing  btoouao 
'illiis  birth.     This  is  tin-  i.-n  interpretation  ,,i  y our  dream. 

"When  the  emperor  heard  this.  1,-  ms  n-hi  jovfnl.  .So....  after  that, 
Hit  empress  travmlud  in  rliihil'iilli.  ami  was  delivered  of  a  fair  sou,  at 
........  |.:r[|,  [here  iviiji  e/r.-Lt  and  wit  derful  joy  made. 

"Wheu  the  king  of  Ainpluy  heard  tliisi  li-  thought  in  himself  thus  i 
!■■'.  1  Live  waned  against  tin:  emperor  all  the  days  of  my  life,  and  now 
■:..  ft- hi.  when  ho  C0liior.li  to  full  inn..,  wid  revenue  the  «-run» 
llnvudono  against  hi*  father,  therefore  il  is  hid  tor  that  1  send  to  the 
'■ini'smr.  and  beseech  him  of  trueo  and  peace.,  that  the  aon  mayha.ee 
nulling  «gainst  me,  when  he  cometh  to  manhood :  -' 
'  ■"!  !■.■  himself,  he  wrote  to  tho  emperor,  beseeching  ] 
^  lint  the  emperor  saw  that  the  king  of  Ainpluy  wro 

"-'■chit,  sureties  r.o  keep  the  pmice.  mid  hind  h.tmelf  all  tiio  days  of  his 
*  to  ilo  him  service  and  homage,  ho  w.mld  receive,  him  to  peace. 

"When  the  king  had  read  the  tenor  of  the  emperors  letter,  he  eall'd 
'-  t-'mncil.  ii-iviii.'  t.i.eiii  to  give  iiiii  ooiiiis.-l  how  he  best  might  do,  as 
touching  thia  matter.  Then  said  tlu.v,  1c  i,  good  that  ye  obey  the 
..i,d  Co  mi  mo  n.l  i  lira  I.  in  nfl  tinners.  For  lirst,  in  that  he 
«"trel  of  you  surety  for  tho  peace  ;  to  this  we  answer  thus,  Ye  have 
™t  one  daughter,  and  the  emperor  one  sun,  wherefore  let  a  uiaviugo  \ya 


slvi 


INTRODUCTION. 


iloiiBod  the 
triage.     TLon 


mads  Imu'ivh  them,  uid  that  may 

Also  ho  askoth  honuiitii  uiul  I  I'llmk-.'  which  it-  is  good  t"  fulfil.     Then  the 
king  H,:nl.  ln:i  mosson,;ors  I"  1  lie  oiupcnii-,  savin;.',  (lull  he  vrauli]  fulfil  ins 
dorure  in  all  things,  if  ii  mig-ht  please  his  highness.  Hint  his  boi 
king's  daughter  might  he  miin-iod  together.     All  this  well  p] 
emperor,  yet  he  sent  again,  saying.  If  his  daughter  were  a  ale 
limn  1ih-i-  l.inh  mill)  (lull  il:iv,  In'  would  in  ■    ■   ■  * 
vu  th«  king  right  K'«'.  fllr  '"*  daughter 

"  Theieforo,  when  the  Idlers  uf  coveuiim  nun  ioimjuict.  were  Beaten, 
the  king  fumi-ln-d  :l  fiiir  -hip.  win-ruin  lie  might  send  his  daughter,  with 
many  uohhi  knight»,  ladies,  «ml  groat  riches,  unto  the  oiuporor,  for  to 
have  hit  tou  in  marriage. 

•'  And  when  lho\  k  ■■!■■  sailing  III  I  In-  sea,  liiiviiiiis  K.imri,  n  storm  urti-il 
no  oitruamly  mid  s,"i  honihli  Unit  tin-  -hip  ln-;iko  against  a  rock,  and  they 

Wen;  nil   dinw 1   nnve   r.i.lv  lie-    v.-uiig   luiiv.  whhli   li\eil    lu-r   hnpo   mid 

heart  bo  greatly  mi  Hud,  ihid  she  was.  ««.vedi  and  about  Ihrce  of  the  clock 
111,-  li  nip. -I  c.-ase.l,  ii n, I  tin-  liiilv  'in  no  fnrlli  nviTllii'  .IJli'.-  in.  that  broken 
«hip  wbidi  was  iin!  up  again  :'H'it  ji  hug.- whale  followed  ^fter,  ready  to 
devour  bulli  tho  ship  niui  Iht.  WIibi'Imii-  (hi?  \  uuug  liiJv,  whim  night 
1'iiiiiii.  smote  1 1 i-i -  iv i (ti  ii  nl  i mi-  win- ii-n  ish  lln-  ship  wns  greatly  lijiiiiuiiil, 
uml  then  the  wind"  durst  noi  ml  venture  inward  I  lm  ship  for  fear  of  that 
light.  At  the  eii.'k  en  .wing.  I  his  young  liuly  wis  F"  weary  of  Iho  great 
ii-mji.-si  uml  ii.iiilil"  nl  .»i.:i.  I!,  ii  -he  -li'i-l.  uml  within  u  litile  whilo  after 

tin'  lii"  i-easod,  mid  I  hi  i  iv  In  ill-  cum ,.1  devoured  the  virgin.     Ami  nvlion 

she  uwnkoil  iin,|  found  hoisolf  suntl'.woil  u]i  in  tin-  while's  hctly,  she 
smote  lire,  uml  wilh  n  knife  wounded  tho  whale  ill  in. my  phices,  and 
when  111*  whnle  toll  himself  wounded,  uncording  to  Ins  nature  he  began 

"There  wis  dwelling  at  I  hid  limo  in  u  eountrv  mar  hy,  a  noble  eftrl 
nornoti  Pirris,  who  for  hn  rcoicati'.n  walking  on' the  sea  shore, Saw  the 
whnlo  coming  towmils  lln    [mid.  wherefore  In;  turned  Imiuu  again,  and 

gathered  ji  great,  runny  of  n  mid  worn and  ciimo  I  hither  again,  and 

fought  «illi  tin-  iv  I  iii  I  e 1  «i -ii  tided  linn  very  sore,  anil    is  they  «mot*, 

tho  maiden  that  win  in  his  belly  cryed  with  an  high  voice,  and  said, 
O  goutlo  friends,  huvo  nn-ii-v  and  conipnssien  on  me.  for  I  am  a  lring"a 
daughter,  and  a  Inin  virgin  from  the  hour  of  my  birth  unto  this  day. 
When  the  earl  heard  I  his.  ho  wi  union  d  greatly,  and  opened  the  side  of 
the  whale,  and  found  the  young  lady,  mid  tool;  her  out;  and  when  she 
wo»  thus  delivered,  sin-  iuld  linu  ioi-thw  nl.  «Ii-f  iliiughtor  she  wu,  and 
bow  she  had  lost  all  her  goods  in  the  son,  and  how  she  should  have  been 
married  unto  tho  emperor's  sou.  Anil  when  the  earl  heard  this,  he  was 
very  giad,  and  comforted  her  the  more,  and  kept  her  with  him  til)  she 
was  well  refreshed,  And  in  Ihe  mean  time  he  mint  uiosaengers  to  the 
emperor,  ieil  in;:  liim  to  kn.-w  li,,iv  (he  kinuV  daughf  er  was  saved, 

"Then  was  the  emperor  right  glad  of  her  safely,  ami  coming,  had 

gn-.it  i-niii].ns-i,,ii  on  h.i,  saying,  Ah  i.- i  in, ii, i in.  lor  the  hoe  of  inv  s"n 

th-ul   hnst  sulYon  d   niueli  woo  :    m  Veil  lie  lew,  if   1 1 he  worthy  to  be  his 

Wife,  soon  shall  1  prove.  And  when  he  hud  thus  said,  lie  cn'used  three 
vessels  to  he  brought  ferlh  ;  the  lii.t  was  mad"  •■!'  pure  '.Mid,  well  besot 
with  precious  stones  with, ait,  and  within  full  of  ih  an  men's  bones,  and 

iven  this  jiosie :    Whoso  intsnn  he,  biliLLL  nun 

.     Tho  second  vessel  was  made  of  tine  silver,  filled 

h  earth  and  worms,  the  supoi-cr.plieti  wa-  tint-,   Wlioso  1-I1U3KTH  KB, 

and  then  upon  was  inscuipt  this. 


INTRODUCTION. 


ran.  These  three  vessels  the  emperor  shewed  the  maiden,  and  said 
Id,  hers  daughter,  these  be  rich  Teasels,  if  thou  ohuaa  one  of  these 
wbeieia  ia  profit  to  thee  and  to  others,  then  shall  thou  have  my  son 
And  if  thou  chuBo  that  wherein  ia  no  profit  to  thee,  nor  to  any  other, 


thai  I  may  receive  the  e    , 

Srr!  vessel  of  gold,  which  ^ 

srription:    Whoso  thierth  «if,  shall  find  that  he  dete 

Though  this  vessel  be  full  precious,  and  made  of  p 

I  know  not  what  is  within,  therefore,  my  dear  ft 


chute, 

e  beheld  Die 

1  the  nuijer- 

.  saying  thu», 

gold,  nevertheless 


d  will  I 


,  open  thy 
v.41  fh'-s-n 


"And  then  die  beheld  the  second  vessel,  that  was  of  pure  silver,  and 
read  the  superscription,  Whoso  ehnseth  me,  ihait  find  that  hit  nature 
iaireth:  Thinking  ihus  within  hersdf,  if  I  ilui-c  ttiis  vessel,  what  is 
within  I  know  not,  but  well  I  know,  (here  shall  I  find  th.it  nature 
desire  th,  arid  my  nature  deeireth  the  luit  of  the  fleeh,  and  therefore  this 
vessel  will  I  not  ehuse. 

"  Whenahe  had  seen  those  two  vbrhIb,  and  had  given  an  answer  as, 
touching  them,  she  beheld  the  third  vessel  of  lead,  and  read  the  super- 
scription. Whom  chttaeth  me,  ihatl  find  that  Gad  hath  disputed:  Think- 
ing within  herself,  ihis  vessel  i,  n„t  von-  riili,  «r.r  jilI  Hardly  jireciouf, 
yet  the  superscription  snith,  Jr/,,,.  .  rhuselh  me,  shall  find  tlutt  God  hath 
iitpntcd:  and  witliiiut  UnuM  <itA  never  disposeth  any  harm,  therefore, 
by  the  leave  of  God,  this  vessel  will  I  chuse. 

"  When  the  emperor  heard  this,  he  said,  O  fair  maider, 
vessel,  for  it  is  full  of  precious  stones,  and  Bee  if  thou  hast  1 
or  no.  And  when  this  young  lady  had  opened  it,  she  found  it  full  of 
fine  gold  and  precious  stones,  as  the  enii,en,r  hail  If,  1.1  her  before.  Then 
said  the  emperor,  daughter,  Ijeoimsi-  lliou  h;is.r  well  i:lii.>son,  thoa  shall 
marry  my  son-     And  then  he  appointed  the  wedding  day ;  and  they  wen 

CHAPTER  XT. IX. 

original  Gesta ;  Tale  L.      Not  ohBarred 

CHAPTER  L. 
This  apologue  is  also  in   the  original  Qesta,  with  slight  variations. 
See  Tale  XLV.     It  is  noticed  in  the  Illustrations,  &c. 

CHAPTER  LL 
Is  also  in    the   original    Gesta;    Tale    LXIV.       Not    observed    by 
l£r.  Douce. 

CHAPTER  LTV. 
a  the  original  Geeta ;  Tale  CXX.     Noticed  in  the  llluitrationt. 

CHAPTER  LYI. 
s  the  original  Gesta ;  Tale  XX.     Overlooked  by  Mr.  Donee. 


INTRODUCTION. 


CHAPTER  LXII. 


This  story,  though  not  csmilv  the  snm,.,  resci^Mes  Trilo  I.,  Tale 
XXVII.,  and  part  of  Tale  LV.  But  it  is  really  Tide  LXVI.  Set 
:,;hr,ii  by  Mr.  iJouce. 

CHAPTER  LXVIII. 
This  is  tho  Twenty- third  History  of  the  English  Translation;  hut 


CHAPTER  LXX, 


.■;   Sjh-rimriil,  Ac),  Tule 


CHAPTER  LXXII. 
Forms  the  latter  part  of  Tale  CI.     Not  observed  by  Mr.  Douce. 

CHAPTER  LXXvn. 
Is  the  Twenty-eighth  History  of  the  English  Translation,  but  not 

n-nrtli  tr.in-icrilimsj.  Til.1  hirer  par:  of  this  story  is  the  same  with 
Tale  LXXXII.  and  Talo  CLXXXI.  Mr.  Douce  notices  the  lull.r,  but  it 
is  not  so  similar  by  any  means  as  the  former. 


CIIAPTER  LXXVIII. 


at  Rome,  that  no  man  should  marry  for  beauty, 
but  for  riches  otily  ;  and  that  mi  woman  s1ii.il lil  hi'  united  to" a  poor  man, 

certain  poor  knieiu"  ■.■.ii.'it-t  the  hw.A  ;i  ;i  rel,  hoy,  hut  she  reminded 
him  of  the  law.  ijinl  n.'sinu  him  to  n-i-  the  Ijfst  rin.Mt.-  of  complying  with 
it,  in  order  to  effect  their  onion.  He  departed  in  gn-ai.  sorrow,  and  after 
much  enquiry,  wna  iufi.niusl  r,f  a  rie»  duke,  who  had  been  blind 
from  the  day  of  his  birth.  Him  he  resolved  ti.  uinnie.r,  and  uhtoin  his 
wealth;  but  tinim!  that  In:  whs  [ir-iiooti'il  ill  tins  ilny-t.iinn  by  several 
armed  domestics,  and  at  night  l.y  tin:  vi-ilmice  of  a  faithful  dog.  Ha 
contrived,  however,  to  kill  the  dog  with  an  arrow,  and  inimrnfMlftt 
afterwards  the  ni.-i-.i ■  r.  with  win  —  -  ire.n.y  In;  returned  tu  the  lady.  He 
irJormed  her  that  he  hnd  aecomplish'.d  his  |nu-pose;  and  being  interro- 
gated how  this  hid  heen  (li:ni.  in  si.  sli.'il  ;l  -p.ee  ef  time,  tn1  relatod  nil 
that  ■    ■  ■ 


that  hud  taappei 
'---  that  hew 
l  bis  tomb. 
The  knight  armed   himself, 
the  night  he  hea   ' 

judge,  all  that  I 


lady  desired,  befo 
'here  tl 

shi.  i„. 


do  for  thee 

ijoiueu,  iliirty  years  frot     ' 
The  knight,  extremely  terrified, 

"oflected  that  thirty  years  were  a  long  period, 
During  tho  whole  of  the  above  time  thi 


i"  umm.-iLfe  should,  take 
ko  was  buried,  lay  him- 
r,  and  then  report  it  to  her. 
■rningly.     In  the  middle  of 

•  ' ,  what  askeat 

thou  upright 

■  i.l.j.j.-t  unjustly  spilt.     The 

thy  wish  shall  be  fulfilled. 

ith  tho  news  to  the  lady. 

and  resolved  on  the 

parties  remained  in 


ho  thirty  years   were  nearly  elapsed,   the  kni 


INTRODUCTION. 


■|:i  !■,:■  ■:•'■■■-.  ::::;-.^..M    I    ~,.lirfit: 


But  health  iwturtd.  a  wolf  again  we  see.1 

Interrogated  a*  to  tha  meaning  of  those  enigmatical  lines,  the  knight  at 

'..];« tfSpbif  11  td  thciu,  by  el  ]  irin,;  lii.-  own  story,  and  added,  that  in  eight 

Mil;  years  ivoul.l  expire.     Hi;  iuvite.1  all  hi*  friend»  to  a 

>.-:  ji  that  period,  and  "wltt-jj  thy  day  wan  nixivod,  (he  guests  placed  at 

ijl.lt,  IN.!  tin-  miili'ttels  atl.iiuirig  lln.-ir  iiiiirurti-juts  nt    nju  -■,-,  .1  1 ilil'ul 

um.  The  knight  listened  i.lt'-ntin.-lv,  and  said,  I  fear  thin  bird 
■  •  !M.-[-i-twri''.  }Il  tlum  t- -uk  iii>  buw,  .md  shut  an  arrow 
latu  ii,  iu  presence  ot  all  the  company.  Instantly  the  castle  divided  iu[i. 
tw  puts,  and,  with  the  knight,  his"  wife,  and  all  who  were  in  it,  was 
piwii»tued  to  the  lowest  depth  o!  the  infernal  regions.  Tha  story  odds, 
Man  thy  not  where  the  castle  stood,  there  ia  now  a  spacious  lake,  on 
WWl  DO  substance  whatever  floats,  but  is  immediately  plunged  to  tha 
hjlttirn,"  * 

CHAFFER  LXXJX 
"The  dog  and  the  lamp,  in  thin  story,  arc  introduced  in  chap.  i.  of 
U*  other  Gtatit.  tail  the  t n  1  "_■  ~  hiv..  nothing  •■'.*•■  in  common."  "— DottOK. 
BolthBpwsu.rjr/n  is  in  Tale  CXV.,  and  lii*  [ln-rr.  evir  letod  from  thu 
tin'»  fo.it,  in  Tain  CIV.  Th-  proteetioii  .l!>  .nl.-.t  bv  the  animal  rc- 
■iblaithat  in  Tale  CIX.— The  vouth's  subterranean  residence  seems 
wpi«l  from  the  story  of  the  third  calendar  in  tha  Arabian  A'igAti. 

CHAPTER  LXXS. 

"The  substance  of  this  story,"  says  Mr.  Douce,  "is  incorporated 
■"ith  tbe  old  ballad  of  '  A  warning  Piece  to  England,  or  the  Fall  of 
*>»M  Eleanor.'  "— Cell,  of  old  ballads,  vol.  i.  No.  liii. 

CHAPTER  LXXXII. 
"There  dwelt  eome  time  in  Rome  a  mighty  emperor  and  a  merciful, 

'  "     elay,  who  onlai i  mieh  a  hut,  that  what  inuooont  person 

mil  put  in  prison,    if  he   might   escape   and  cotno   to  the 


It  was  not  long  after,  but  it  befel,  that  a 


'iilHPjr's  palace,  he  should 
•[unit  him  in  his  life  timt.     __ 

■night  was  acousod,  uherei'ire  he  was  taken  and  put  in  a  nLrong  nun 
m  prison,  where  ho  lay  a  long  time,  mid  had  no  light  hut  a  little 
■radow,  whereat  scant  light  shone  in,  that  lighted  him  to  eat  such 
■mjto  meit  as  the  keeper  bii.iudit  him  ;  wliei-uiuru  ho  «inurmjil  greatk, 
ud  mm]e  sorrow  that  he  was  than  fast  shut  up  from  the  sight  of  lussu. 
NlTOtheless,  when  the  keeper  was  gone,  there  came  daily  a  mghl  inj/i.t- 
«allho  window,  and  sun-  full  sweetly,  bv  whoso  sung  this  wolul 
Wglltwu  often! iuii.-3  I'd  with  j"V,  mid  when  rhe  bin!  l'-l't  .'if  ;.iu;.'iii::. 
tl«  would  she  ilye  into  the  knight's  bosome,  and  there  this  knight  fed 

it  or  the  Oula  Htm 
xl  m  Tula  1  Vll. 


INTRODUCTION. 

her  many  a  day,  of  tho  victual  that  God  sent  him.     It  befel  after  upon  i 

•  lay,  that  tlni  knight  was  greatly  desolate  tii  comfort.  Nevertheless,  lln- 
bird  tint  sal.;  ;n  Ins  hosoiuo  te.l  iijion  kernels  of  nuta,  and  thus  he  eoitl 
to  tho  bud,  Sweet  bird,  I  have  sustained  thee  nuuiy  a  day,  what  win 
h., ii  rive  incut™  iiimydesnlalii.ii  M  e..  .me  .it  me  r  lie  mem  her  thy  se  t 
!]ow  that  thou  art   the  rrealure  of  God,   and  so  am  I  also,  and 


therefor, 


"Wli.'ll    l' 

tarried    from 
brought  in  hi 

An. J  when  she  nau  so  an 
The  knight  marvelled  u 


my  grca 


lie  bird  hoard  this,  she  llrw  forth   from  hia   bosoiue,  and 
him    three  days,   but    the    third    day  she   came   again, 

■r  mouth  a  preeioos  sh.ue,  in  1  laid  it  In  tile  knight's  bosom. 
1  .e,  she  took  tier  Wight  and  Hew  from  him  again, 
the  Btuue,  and  a!  the  bird,  and  forthwith  he 
d,  and  touched  his  ^ivtjs  and  fellers:  therewith, 
and  presently  they  fell  off.  And  then  he  arose  and  touched  tho  doors 
of  the-  prison,  and  they  opened,  and  he  escaped,  and  ran  fast  to  tin* 
emperor's  palace.  "When  tlui  keeper  >>i  Ilu1  prison  perceived  this,  be  blew 
his  horn  thrice,  and  raised  up  .'.II  the  foils  of  rh«-  i-ity,  anil  led  them  forth, 
crying  with  an  high  voic.-.  !■..,  the  thief  is  gone,  follow  we  him  all.  And 
wiih  that  ho  ran  before  all  Lis  fellows  lowards  ilu    knight.     And  when 

with  he  smote  the  keeper  in  the  lung-,  an.i  slew  him,  aud  thou  ran  to  the 
palace,  where  he  found  succour  against  the  law." 

CHAPTER  KCrV. 

Tho  same  as  Tale  CXXX.  and  Talo  CXLIL  Not  observed  by 
Mr.  Douce. 

CHAPTER  XCTIII. 

"  In  Roma  somo  time  dwelt  a  mighty  emperor,  named  Martin,  which 
for  entire  alfeoiinn  kept  wi:h  him  his  'hiolh.T's  son,  whom  men  called 
Fulgentius.  With  this  Martin  dwell  also  a.  knight,  that  was  steward  of 
the  empire,  and  unkle  unto  the  emperor,  which  envi.-J  this  Fulgent iui., 
-tu living  day  :iTi.l  ii  i -hi  huw  he  miglit  bring  the  emperor  aud  this  youth 
at  debate.  "Win  ieP.r<-  the  steward  on  a  day  wont  to  the  emperor,  mid 
said,  My  lord  (quoth  he),  I  that  am  your  true  servant,  am  bound  in  duty 
in  warn  your  highness,  if  I  hear  any  thing  tint  i-nieheth  your  hunour, 
wlni-fore'  I  have  such  things  that  I  niii.t  needs  utter  it  iu  secret  to  your 
majesty  between  in  two.  Then  laid  the  emperor,  Good  friend,  say  cu 
what  thee  list. 

■'My  most  dear  lord  (quoth  the  steward':,  Fulgeutim  your  couaiu  and 
ii,  hath  defamed  you  won.  lei  inily  and  sh'imef  ally  throng), 


.at  all  your  whole  er_,_-, 

death  to  him  to  serve  your  cup.  Then  the  emperor  was  grievously 
displeased,  aud  almost  beside  himself  f-.r  aug.-r.  and  said  unto  him  thus  : 
I  pray  thee  good  trie  a.!  tell  me  ilie  very  ti  ml.,  if  that  my  breath  stinketli 
as  Lb"  saith.  My  lord  (.prntli  I  lie  steward),  ye  may  believe  me,  I  never 
perceived  a  sweeter  breath  in  my  dais  than  yours  is.  Thou  said  the 
emperor,  I  pray  thoo  good  friend,  toll  me  how  I  may  bring  this  thing 
to  good  proof. 

"The  Btewan!  answered  ami  said  :  My  I.. n.1  (ipioth  he)  yn  shall  right 
weli  understand  the  truth  ;  for  to-morrow  nest  when  he  serveth  you  of 
your  cup,  ye  shall  see  that  lie  will  turn  away  his  face  from  you,  because 
'if  your  breath,  and  this  is  the  most  certain  proof  that  may  be  had  of  this 
thing.    Verily  (quoth  the  emperor),  a  truer  proof  cannot  be  had  of  this 


INTRODUCTION. 


ftiw.    Therefore  anor 


u  kiii-miii,  iu 


i  steward  heard  this,  he  went  »1 


thee.  Then  said  thin  Futgentius,  Ah  good  Sir,  for  his  Love  that  died  upon 
the  eras,  tell  me  why  my  lord  is  so  km  moved  frith  m- ■,  lor  I  am  ready 
iii  amend  my  fault  in  nil  that  I  can  or  may,  and  for  to  be  ruled  by  jour 

"  Thy  breath  [quoth  the  steward)  stinketh  so  sore,  that  his  drink  doth 
him  no  good,  so  grievous  unto  him  wtha  -tin  kin;/  breati  of  thy  mouth. 
Hen  said  Fulgent i us  unto  tin;  steward:  Truly,  that  perceived  I  never 
till  n..w  j  but  what,  think  ye  of  my  breath,  I  pray  you  teli  me  the  vary 
Ij-uth  -"  Trulv  fijnolh  the  steward,!  ir  sliuker.h  ^r-.alU1  and  foul.  And 
■.Lis  Fii]-i;li1ln-  believed  oil  that  ho  had  said,  aud  was  right  sorrowful  in 
lot  miii'i.  and  prayed  the  steward  of  his  c  nuual  aud  help  in  this  woful 
ciie.     Than  -aid  the  steward  unto  him.  If  that  thou  wilt  do  my  oounael, 

tell  thee. 

"I  counsel  thee  for  the  best,  and  also  wan 
«ervest  my  lord  tie  emperor  of  his  cup,  that  t 
ir.,m  him,  to  tlint  ho  may  not  smell  thy  stinkiL=  ___ 
that  thou  bast  provided  thee  of  some  remedy  therefore. 

'-  Then  was  Fulgcutius  right  glad,  and  swaro  to  him  that  he  woul 
do  by  iiis  counsel. 

"  Not  long  after  it  hefcll  that  this  young  man  Fulgentius  served  hi 
lord  as  he  was  wont  to  do,  and  therewith  suddenly  lie  turned  his  fat 
(torn  Ihe  lord  the  emperor,  as  the.  sti,w;,rii  hud  taught  him. 

"And  wlieti  the  emperor  [lereeiv.-d  tin:  ■■n'-.'iditig  of  his  head,  h 
■  mote  this  vouug  Fuljrenhus  on  the  hi'M.'l.  with  his  i'.j.-i,  aud  said  to  hit_ 
thus:  O  thou  lewd  varlet ;  now  I  sob  well  it  is  true  that  I  have  heard  of 
Ihee,  and  therefore  go  thou  anon  our.  ot  mv  siiJit,  that  I  may  see  thee 
no  more  iu  this  pluco.  And  with  that  il.is  young  r'ulgentius  wept  full 
>ore,  and  avoided  tlie  place,  and  wi-nt  nut  of  his  sight. 

"And  when  this  was  done,  the  emperor  culled  unto  him  his  steward, 
and  uid,  How  may  I  rid  this  va.-h-t  from  the  world,  that  thus  hath 
defamed  m(.5    My  most  dear  lord  [quoth  the  steward),  right  well  you 

■'For  hero  Inside,  within  these  three,  miles,  ye  have  brick-makers, 
which  daily  make  great  fire,  for  to  hum  luiek.  ami  also  they  make  lime, 
therefore  my  lord,  send  to  them  this  night,  charge  them  upuu  puiii  of 
death,  that  whosoever  comet h  to  them  lir.-t  in  Ihe  in-rning,  saying  to 
ihem  thus,  My  lord  commamlclh  them  i.j  fnliil  his  wilt,  that  they  take 
him  and  cast  hiin  into  the  furunee,  and  lv. in  h.ni  ;  ami  ihi.s  night  com- 
mand you  tliis  Fulgeutius,  that  he  go  early  m  the  m  inning  to  your  work- 
men, and  that  he  usk  them  whether  they  have  fulfilled  your  will  which 
they  were  uoitiinaiided,  or  not;  aud  then  shall   they,  according  to  your 

death. 

"Surely  {'1UJ.-.I  I)  the  em;, ei'Oi.  thy  counsel 
ins  (hat  vmlet  Fulgentins.    And  wht     "  ■ 
emperor'*  presence,  he  said  to  him 

doath,  that  thou  rise  early  in  the  rm.ruiiii.-,  ami  go  to  the  hur.icio  ui  iiiuD 
d  hrick,  and  that  thou  be  with  them  early  before  the  aun  rise,  three 


hen  the  young  man  was  cr 


INTRODUCTION. 


■ 


milea  from  this  house,  ami  charge  them  in  my  behalf,  that  they  fulfil  my 

eoirimnndmciif,  or  elso  ~.-v  -in  1 1  ill--  ;i  most  shameful  death. 

"Then  spake  Ibis  Tul-eiitius.  Iilv  Lt.nl,  if  God  semi  me  my  life,  I 
shall  f nllil  your  will,  were  i!  tln.r  I  go' to  tin.:  world's  en rl. 

"  When  Fntgentius  had  Ibis  ■■tiur;.:.',  he  emiid  not  sleep  for  thought, 
that  he  must  rise  early  to  fulfil  his  lord's  commandmont.  The  ompornr 
n bout  midnight  sent'n.  messenger  oa  hor.sebnek  unto  hist  briek- makers, 
.■ominamliug,  that  upon  pain  of  death,  that  whosoever  rame  to  them 
first  in  the  morning,  savin u  un  in  tb..in  <ns  h  before  rehearsed)  they  should 
T like  him  mid  hind  him,  ami  east  him  into  tbs  tire,  and  burn  him  to  thy 
hare  bones. 

"The  brick-makers  answered  mid  said,  it  should  be  done.     Then  thu 

ment  should  ho  diligently  JuMlatl. 

towards  His  way.  and  us  lie  w.-nt,  he  heard  a  lull  ring  to  service,  where- 
fore he  went  to  hoars.-rviee.  and  .'Li't.-r  the  end  of  service  he  fell  asleep, 
and  there  slept  a  long  while  so  soundly,  that  tlie  priest,  nor  none  other. 
might  awake  hiin, 

"  The  steward  desiring  inwardly  to  heir  of  his  death,  about  two  off 
111"  eloek  h"  went  in  I  hi-  wuiknn-n,  and  said  mil-.,  It.  mi  ihus.  Mrs  (ijuotii 
ii'O,  have  v  ilon i'  tin'  r  mper.r's  e.enm  nei  merit  or  nop 

"  The  bviok-makoi-s  a  us  we  red  him  and  said.  No  truly,  wo  have  not 
yet  done  his  eommamlmenf,  hut  it  shrill  In':  done.  Mid  ivith  that  they  lnid 

hands  on  him.     Then  cried  -.;,  itawai.l.  ami  -aid,!.. I  .irs,  .„1Vi.- m'y  lire, 

for  the  emperor  commanded  (hat  I'ulgi  alius  should  he  put  to  death. 
Then  said  th BTr,  the  mes.eiiL.mr  told  us  not  so,  hut  he  bad  us,  that  whoso- 
ever came  first  in  the  morning,  saying  as  you  hare  said,  that  we  should 
take  him,  ami  cast  him  lain  the  furnace,  and  burn  him  to  ashei:  and 
with  that  they  threw  him  into  the  fire. 

"  And  when  he  was  burnt,  Fulgent  ins  prime  to  thorn  ami  said  .  Good 

mill  therefore  go  vc  again  to  the  emperor,  anil  tell  him  so.  Than  said 
Fulgent  ins.  for  Ci, rial's  1-ve  (ell  m-  that  .■  inmiiudment. 

"We  had  a  commandment  miid  ihey.  up. in  puiu  of  death,  that  whoso- 
ever enme  to  as  11  ist.  in  the  mol-TLini.',  nn.l  said  like  as  lliou  hast  said,  that 

t.lie  steward-  mid  therefore  on  In  in  Lave  ivi:  f  mulled  the  emperor's  com- 
mandment, now  he  is  burnt,  l.o  the  bare  bones. 

"When  Fulrmntius  heard  ti.ii,  l.o  I  hanked  Clod,  that  he  had  so  pre- 
•■■vi-"ii  him  fn,in  deaili,  therefore  lu:  look  his  leave  of  the  workmen,  and 
went  again  to  the  palace. 

"  When  the  emperor  saw  him,  he  was  alui'.st  distract  of  his  wits  for 
anger,  and  thus  he  said.  Hast  thou  been  with  the  brink- makers,  and 
fulfilled  my  comninmiinent  -  ,-o..il.hlv.  my  gracious  Lord,  I  have  been 
there,  but  ere  I  earn.'  I  here,  your  enm  ma  m  him  ui:  ihls  ful  idled.  How  may 
Ihat  he  true,  ipioth  the  emperor? 

"Forsooth,  .laid  Fid;?. -niins,  the  steward  mime  to  them  afore  me,  and 
said  that  I  should  have  said,  so  they  took  him  and  threw  him  into  the 
furnace,  and  if  I  had  come  nuv  earlier,  s..  would  they  have  done  to  me, 
Mid  lhir.-1'..i-...  I  thimk  (o.ii,  thai  he  h.ilh  preserved  me  from  dentil. 

"  Then  said  tin-  emperor,  i.-ll  in.-  the  truth  of  such  ijin  ■.lions  as  I  shall 
demand  of  thee,  Theu  said  Fulgenliuii  lo  the  emperor:  You  never  found 
i ue  in  any  falslmod,  ami  th.-n-f.-r..  I  greatly  wonder  why  ye  have  ordained 
such  a  death  for  me  ?  for  well  ye  know,  that  I  am  your  own  brother's  son. 


or  rnoDUCTiojf. 


Then  tnicl  tbe  emperor  to  F.il^ciiCn. 
nnlained  for  thee,  through  umtuiid 


..n  wonder,  for  that  death  I 
iteward,  because  thou  didst 


defatne  me  throughout  nil  my  empire,  saying,  t 
«u  grievously,  thn!  it  was  death  to  thee,  ami  in  token  thereof  thou  turned» t 
uway  thy  face  when  thou  serveilst  mn  of  my  «up,  mid  that  I  saw  with 
mine  eyes  ;  and  for  this  cause  I  ordained  i"[  tine  ml.-Il  :,  death;  and  yet 
thou  shult  die,  except  I  hear  a  better  eicuse. 

"  Then  answered  Fulgeutiu»,  liik]  «iid  ;  All,  deiir  |...rij,  if  it  mi-ht  pie/is.. 
your  highness  for  to  hear  me,  I  hIim.1I  shew  you  a  subtile  ami  deceitful 
Imagination.     Say  on,  quoth  the  emperor. 

'■The  steward  (ijui.tli  Fui^i  ntimj  that  is  now  dyad,  came  to  tni 
said,  that  ye  told  unto  him  tb.  it  my  breath  did  stint,  and  ihereupii 
connaelled  me,  tint  whim  1  served  y.,u  of  your  cup,  I  should  turn  nil 
away,  I  take  God  to  witness,  I  lie  not. 

"  When  die  .Minier-iir  heard  tliis,  he  be' !■  ■  v.'<l  hiin,  and  said.  C 
nephew,  now  I  pee,  thr'Mish  tli>>  li-h?  wise  judgment  of  LJod,  the.  ate 
is  burnt  and  his  own  wickedness  and  envy  is  fallen  on  himself,  fi 
ordained  this  malice  against  thee,  and  tharefore  thou  art.  much  hniu 
Almighty  God,  that  hath  iin-rcrved  tlieo  fr"iii  de-itli. 

t^Th.n  ■•»»  .»„..  [...,..,  — ..,.-.  r v.  »[,«  F„<.l         tii„ 


•'ThiBstorymny  haye'enmefromthe  East,     i.S.,e  Scott's  Tula /rot 
the  Amine  and  Fvsian,  p.  ii'.l,  where  lliere  is  .in  excellent  story,  of  similar 
constructiou.)     "ft  is  likewise  extrein.  Ey  uvll  related  in  the  Qantt 
or  Miracle,  •>/  tM   Virgin    (Lo  Grand,  Fabliaux,  v.  74},  and 
places."— TJortca. 

CHAPTER  C. 


CHAPTER  CI. 


1  On  this  story  Schiller  wrm- ;<- li  i v..  I . . 1 1 - , . I . ■ . •  hi»  '-: I  ef '•  rri.l.,lin,  or  the  K 

to  the  ln-.il  FoimnVry,"  lately  IrariKl 1  l.y  Mr.  I'Mht-r.      in  ^InlleMlie.  c.use  of  tlie- 

v.mtb's  i.iirii.h-.-.l  ili.Kt.riirtiuii  is  jtaluttiy  lli-.li^ni.nl  Iv  ':v  ii-.l  i  r  ■  I  !„■  :nii,l  of  Lis  ull-i-t, 
by  Robert  tbe  Huntsman. 

-•'--     ind   mot   i>i'   II..-'   ].ilii.-ir.  .1   vir.-Lni«(unci!«   i.f  the   stury  .!!■■ 


'iii'j!  In 


,  iu,i  B  I'l". 


in  his 


re  .ii.iii„I]v  several  priuteil  or  MS.  » 
of  on  tMoliili  nriein.  which  is  ill 
1«;  the  fimOWhlglSth,.  »,:<-., Ill, t|!il 


'if  know  of  nc  similar  lurrn 


"  theinode 


liv  INTRODUCTION. 

graoions  in  all  her  works,  especially  she  was  merciful.  On  a  time,  as 
the  emperor  lay  in  hi»  bed,  he  fc»llni«ulit  him,  that  he  wonla  go  and  visit 
the  Holy  Land!  And  on  the  morrow  he  called  to  him  the  empress  his 
wife,  and  his  own  only  brother,  and  thus  he  said ,  Dear  ludy,  I  may  noi, 
nor  will  not  hide  from  you  the  privities  of  my  heart,  I  purpose  to  visit 
the  Holy  Land,  wherefore  1  ordain  thee  principally  to  he  lady  and 
governess  over  all  my  empire,  and  all  my  people:  and  under  thee  I 
*-     -  thy  steward,  for  to  provide  all  things  may 


be  profitable  to  my  empire  and  my  peoph 


Then  said  the  empress,  Sith  it  will  no  otherwise  be,  bat  that  need* 

y'jsiiiill  .1 


thou  wilt  fro  to  visit  the  city  at  Jerusalem,  I  shall  be  in  your  absence  a* 
*'-  4tit  hath  lost  her  mate;  for  at  ™  l  _1 


escaj>e  thence  with  your  . 

"The  emperor  anon  comforts  her  with  fair  words,  and  kissed  her, 
and  after  that  took  his  leave  of  her  and  all  others,  and  went  toward  tllw 
i-iEy  of  Jerusalem. 

"  And  aaon  after  the  emperor  was  gone,  his  brother  became  so  proud, 
that  he  oppressed  poor  men  and  robbed  rich  men  ;  and  he  did  wors-i 
than  this,  for  he  daily  stirred  the  empress  to  commit  sin  with  him  ;  but 

knight  would  not  leave  with  this  answer,  but  ever  when  he  found  her 
alone,  he  made  his  complaint  to  her,  and  stirred  her  by  all  the  ways  time 

"  When  this  lady  saw  that  he  would  not  cease  for  any  answer,  nor 
would  not  amend  himself;  when  she  saw  her  time,  she  called  to  her 
three  or  four  of  the  worthiest  men  of  the  empire,  and  said  to  them  thus  : 
It  ia  not   unknown  to  you,   that  my  lord  the  emperor  ordained   me 

«toward  under  rar,  and  that  lie  sh-udd  do  nothing  without  ray  counsel, 
but  he  doth  all  the  contrary ;  for  he  oppreaseth  greatly  poor  men.  and. 
likewise  robbeth  the  rich  men ;  yet  he  would  do  mure  than  Otis  if  he 
might  have  his  intent ;  wherefore  I  command  you  in  my  lord's  name, 
that  you  bind  him  fiat,  and  cost  him  into  prison. 

"Then  said  they,  Soothly  he  hath  done  many  evil  deeds  since  our 
lord  the  emperor  wont,  therefore  mc  W  ready  to  obey  your  miiiraaiiil- 
ments,  but  In   this  matter,  you   must  answer  for  us  to  our  lord  the 

"Then  said  she,  Ho  ml  ve  not,  i!  my  lord  knew  what  he  had  done  as 
well  0»  I,  he  would  put  him  to  the  iouh-t  death  th.it  could  bo  thought. 
Immediately  lb'---  men  laid  hand-,  'in  him,  mid  l."..unil  him  fast  with  iron 
chains,  and  put  him  in  prison,  whore  he  lay  lung  time  after,  tili  at  tha 
lost  it  fortuned,  there  eame  tidinas  that  the'  emperor  was  couiiui;  home. 
mid  luitl  obtained  ;_'tonf  renown  arid  vietnrv.  When  his  brother  hoard  of 
his  oominn,  he  Kiid,  Would  to  I  tod  my  brother  might  not  find  me  in 
prison,  for  if  he  do,  liu  will  enquire  the  cause  of  my  imprisonment  of  tha 
empress,  anil  she  will  toll  him  .ill  the  tiulli  how  1  moved  her  to  commit 
sin,  ancl  so  for  her  I  shall  have  n..  fav.ur  of  my  brother,  but  lose  my 
life  ;  this  know  I  well :  therefore  it  shall  not  bo  so.  Then  se.it  ho  a 
messenger  unto  the  empress,  praying  her  that  she  would  vouchsafe  to 
come  to  the  prison  -'I  o-ir,  ih;it  lie  mL'i.i  sneak  :i  w.T.l  or  (wo  with  her. 

"Tlie  empress  cauiu  to  him,  anil  c-ii.jilireiL  of  him  what  ho  would 
--J  laid,  0  lady,  have  mercy  upon  me,  for  if  the 
me  in   prison,  then  shall  I  die  without  any 

aedy. 

"Then  said  tho  empress,  If  I  might  know  that  thou  wouldit  be  a 


INTRODUCTION.  I 

gnnil  man.  and  leave  thy  folly,  thon  shouldest  End  grace.  Then  did  ha 
promise  her  assuredly  to  be  true,  and  to  amend  all  his  trespass.  When 
lie  had  thus  promised,  the  empress  deliver' d  him  anon,  and  made  him  to 
bo  bathed  and  shaven,  and  apparelled  him  worthily,  according  to  his 
itate,  and  then  she  said  thus  to  him  ;  Now,  good  brother,  take  thy  steed, 
and  come  with  me,  that  we  may  meet  my  lord.  He  answered  and  said. 
Lady,  I  urn  ready  to  fulfil  your  will  and  commandment  in  all  things ;  i.ii.l 
then  the  empress  took  him  with  her,  and  many  other  knights,  and  so 
rode  forth  to  meet  the  emperor :  and  as  they  rode  together  by  the  way, 
they  saw  a  great  hart  run  before  them,  wherefore  STMJ  man,  with  such 
hounds  as  they  hud,  shaaed  him  on  horseback:  so  that  with  the  mum 
was  left  "  "  -: 

Lid}  ,  here  is  beside  a.  privnte.  forrest,  and  long 

"Tnen  said  the  empress,  Ah  fool,  what  may  this  bep     Yesterday  I 
delivered  thee  out  of  prison  upon  thj 


I  'folly  again;  wherefore  I  any  u 
mid  he,  if  thou  w'- 


thee,  as  I  have  said  bef  01 

me,  I  «hall  haiif.'  thee  huv,-  up. .11  a  tree  in  this  forrest,  where  no  man 
shall  find  thee,  and  so  shalt  thou  die  an  evil  death.  The  empress 
answered  meekly,  and  suid.  Though  thou  smite  off  my  head,  nr  put  me 

"When  he  heard  this,  he  unslothed  her  all  save  her  smock,  and 
hanged  her  Up  by  the  hair  up  in  a  tree,  ami  lied  her  ste.-d  before  her,  and 
so  rode  to  his  fellows,  and  told  them  that  a  great  host  of  men  mot  him, 
and  toot  the  empress:  away  from  him,  and  when  he  had  told  them  this, 
thev  made  all  great  sorrow. 

"  It  befell  on  the  fluid  day  after,  there  came  an  earl  to  hunt  in  that 
forrest,  and  as  ho  rode  beating  tin-  hushes,  he  unkenneled  a  fox,  whom 
his  hounds  followed  fas!,  till  they  c;mie  near  the  tree  where  the  empress 
hanged.  And  when  the  do;»  smelt  the  savour  of  the  empress,  they  left 
Iho  fox,  and  run  towards  llj._-  tree  as  fast  as  they  could. 

"The  earl  seeing  this,  wondred  greatly,  and  spurring  his  horse, 
followed  them  till  he  eiiuie  where  the  empress  hanged.  When  the  earl 
saw  her  thus  hanging,  he  marvehrd  ;:;i'rly,  forasmueh  as  the  was  right 
fair  and  beautiful  to  behold  ;  wherefore  he'  s.iM  unto  her  in  this  manmv- 
mise :  O  woman,  who  art  thou  F  and  of  what  country  f  and  wherefore 
hangeet  thou  here  in  this  manner  P 

"The  empress  that  was  not  yet  fully  dead,  but  at  point  ready  to  die, 

q,  quoth  she,  a  strange  woman,  and  ai~ 

iw  I  camo  hither,  Liod  knov  " 

sri  and  sard.  Whose  horse  is  this  that  standesl 
tree?  Then  answered  the  holy  ami  said,  that  it  was  hers.  When  the 
earl  heard  r  i ,  -  -,  I  ■  ■  -  -iw  well  that  she  was  a  gentlewoman,  and  come  of 
noble  lineage,  when-fore  he  was  the  rather  moved  with  pity,  and  said 
unto  her:  O  fair  lady,  thon  seemest  of  gentlo  blood,  and  therefore  I 
purpose  to  deliver  thee  from  this  mischief,  if  thou  wilt,  promise  to  go 
1  '■  ■  li  her  at  home  in 
my  castle,  for  I  have  no  child  but  only  her,  and  if  i.hou  keep  her  w.el 
BsM  «half  have  a  good  reward  for  thy  labour.  Then  said  she:  As  far 
forth  as  I  can  or  may,  I  shall  fulfil  vnnr  in  tent.  Anil  .^Ini'ii  she  had  thus 
"  "'  lised  him,  Le  took  her  down  off  the  tree,  ami  led  her  home  to  his 
:,  and  gave  her  the  keeping  of  his  daughter  that  he  loved  so  much, 


Ivi  INTRODUCTION. 

ami  ahe  wan  cherished  bo  well,  that  she  lay  every  night  in  the  earl's 

eluiiubnr.  ini'l  hi.  duimhtor  wilh  liir:  arid  in  the  chamber  every  nijjKT 
rln  ii-  Li i irn-. i  .1  la m 1 1,  which  hn ngod  !..■! wi.-«mi  the  einpresaea  bed  and  the 
curl's  bed.  This  holy  behaved  h-rsi'lf  s..  gently,  t Jj;i  1  she  «via  beloved  of 
•  'Vi'rv  creature.  There  was  at  that  fluic  in  tin:  carl's  house  a  steward, 
which  much  loved  this  emprcaa,  and  often  spake  tn  her  of  his  love.  But 
she.  iiiisn-i  red  him  again  and  said,  Know  ye,  dour  friend,  [or  11  certainty, 
that  I  will  never  love  any  man  in  such  manner-wisc,  but.  only  him  whom 
I  nm  great  lv  lionrid  in  love  bv  Ginl's  I'linuiandment. 

"TheiiHiid  r  1 , ..-  si.cward,  'J'li.-u  tli  m  wlliimt  , ^iiil  unto  me?     Sir 

(quoth  she),  what  need  you  any  more  to  ask  such  things  P  The  vow  that 
I  have  made,  I  will  truly  knii,  mid  lir.lii  by  the  grace  of  God. 

"  And  when  the  steward  heard  this,  he  went  his  way  in  great  wrath 
Mid  miner,  Ihinkiu.g  within  hi  n  lit  I  i.  if  I  riiiiy,  I  shall  hi'  revenged  on  thee. 

"Itbefcl  uiiiii  ii  nodal  wiili  in  ii  '-Iniii  lime  after,  ilni  the  curl's  chamber 
ih.i.rwas  l''.rL''.l1.ii.iii,.lli-]'l  ui.deil.  which  Ike  slewuni  hadnuoU  ["'rccivo.l  : 
mid  when  they  were  all  asleep,  ho  wont  and  espied  by  tho  light  of  the 
lump  where  tho  omprra  and  the.  young  nniiden  lay  together,  and  with 
I] nit  lie  drew  nut  liis  knife,  n ml  cut.  the  throat  of  tin.'  curl's  daughter  and 

tut  the  knife  into  the  empresses  hand,  she  being  :ie.U'v|i.  und  nothing 
uowing  thereof,  to  the  intent,  that  when  the  Earl  awaked  ha  should 
think  that  .-I:.'  hud  out  his  dauehlor's  ilin  at,  mid  so  would  she  be  put  to 

:i  sh.imi-ful  i.''  :-1ii  ti.r  Ids  mischievous  '! I."     Ami  wli,-n    rln.:  lluill.el  wii-- 

thua  alain,  and  the  bloody  knife  in  the  empresses  hand,  the  countess 
awaked  out  of  her  shep.  and  saw  by  lie.'  lighl   of  11«:  hunp  the  bloody 

l.llil'..-  in  The  elli[il'"-si'S  il,    wis,  I'ol'i.re    sill-  WHS   allliiist   out    of    ],,.■]■  wil:-. 

..ml  said  to  the  carl,  U  my  lord,  behold  in  yonder  lady'a  hatiil  a  wonder- 
ful thing. 

"The  eorl  awaked,  and  looked  toward  tho  empresses  bed;  and  saw 

lie:  bloedv  knife,  n.s  lb,'  i:.iiiu!< -*  had  said  :  wherefore  he  waa  greatly 
moved,  and  cried  r.n  her,  and  ,-.iirl.  Awake,  w.  Him  ii,  our.  of  thy  sleep,  wr  "* 
Ihing  is  this  i|,:it  I  sec  in  thy  hand  ':  Then  the  cm  pi.  ss  through  his 


Oiny  Ion 
bctl'i-ugl, 


i'.'iee  she  cried,  and  raid,  Alas!  ah.s'  and  wo  is  me,  my  lord's  daughter 

"  Then  cried  Ihe  countcan  unto  the  curl  with  a  piteous  voice,  and  said, 
y  lord,  let  this  devilish  woman  lie  put  to   Ihe   foulest  death  that  call 

l'i"iiiibt,  which  thus  hath  si ;ii ii  .-ur  only  child. 

"Then  when  Ihe  c-unteis  hinl  said  thus  [..  (he  ear],  he  said  to  the 
empress  in  thin  wise;    Tin;  high  <i"d   kuownth  thai    thou,  niiachievou* 

woman,  hast   slain   mv  daughter  with  thii wn  ham  Is,  for  I  saw  the 

bl. io.lv  knife  in  :hv  hand,  and  Ihcrcforc  thou  shall  die  a  foul  douth. 
Then  said  the  carl  in  Ibis  wise  :  (I  thou  woman,  were  it  not  I  dread  God 
proatly,  I  should  cleave  thy  body  with  my  sword  in  two  parts,  for  I 
delivered  thee  from  hanging,  uml  now  thou  hast  slain  my  daughter  ; 
neveitbi'le-s.  for  mo  llioil  shalt  have  no  barm.  Ihei.iore  go  thy  way  out 
of  this  city,  with' .ii t  iinv  delay,  for  if  I  hnd  thee  here  after  this  day,  thou 
i-halt  die  a  luosi  cruel  death. 

"Then  arose  this  wofnl  empress,  and  put  on  her  clonths,  and  after 
I . ■.■].' . I  ..u  I  or  pat  in  v.  eiel  rude  1 1, ward  the  eu-1  nlo'iie  without  any  safe 
touduct ;  and  as  she  rode  thus,  mourning  by  the  way,  ahe  espied  ou  the 


•  This  Incident  will  remind  the  reader  of  a  similar  one  In  llacbttll. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Anon  tbs  emproBB  accorded  with  them  and.  puid  his  ransom,  and  ho  w 

"  Then  said  she  to  him :  Now,  my  (rood  friend,  bo  true  unto  m 
than  die,  sith  I  have  .  iili  v.t  .  ■<]  f  h  ■.■■  ■  from  death. 

"On  my  soul  (quoth  In')  I  |ir..iruisi>  you  ever  to  bo  trua.  And  when 
ba  hid  thua  said,  he  followed  the  lady  «till,  till  limy  rainii  nigh  n  r.ii.y, 
"ad  then  said  the  empress  to  him  :  Good  friend  (<iuut.h  she),  pi  forth  lliy 
tftjiifore  ine  intu  the  oity,  and  sec  thou  tak.'up  i.u-  n 
l"t  there  I  purpose  to  rest  awhile.  Herman  went  forth  »•■  she  commanded 
iroil  took  up  her  a  good  lodging,  ami  an  honest,  where  she  abode  n  lon| 
lime  When  the  men  of  the  city  ^iereeivud  her  beauty,  they  wonilrci 
Eiv.illj ;  ii hi' re [Viie  many  "i  tliciu  eruveit  of  her  unlawful  love,  hut  all 
KU  In  in  in,  I"..,)  di.'v  might  not  speed  in  any  wise. 

"  li.  ii.ltiniil'il   ufier   ujuiii  ;i  iliiy,  tlint  there  enmn   11   ship  full  of  m 

ii,i  ;,?iivi'.l  in  (In-  haven  of  Hint  city.     When  the  lady  heard 

M"-.  -In--  Hid  unto  her  servant :  Go  to  the  ship,  and  «ee  if  there  br  

nl"lb  for  niy  use. 

"Her  servant  went  forth  to  the  ship  when-n*  h"  found  ini.ny  wry  line 

i-  in!.:  In-  jiiny'il  ihu  imi-ter  of  the  .-hip,  that  he  wouJd  u 

:-'  Mi-  iityiind  :-]i.'iil;  with  his  I  inly.     Tln.i  uiaMer  gran  led  him,  and  Bo  the 

■«nut  anno  home  (..  hi.  In.ly  1  .'.■!■. re,  urn  I  ii„rti<  .1  h.-i  of  ihu  coming  of 

n  ship.     Sii'in  lifter  the  unifier  n(  the  ship  camo  and 

ously,  and  the  lady  received  him  according  to  his  degree, 

7  such  doth  as  might  be 

should   have 


writing 


J  her,  o 

mediately  ii 


g  that  liked  her,  and  Bonn  they  were  agreed, 
—  went  iriiiih  'In.!,  li'  again   Willi  the  master  of  tin 

'■Mil.     Al.il  when    (hey  ivrli'  hulh  will ,11    .-I.IJi-l'.i.il.l.  the  1 1 1  - 1  - 1 . 


f    111"    -hi).    I- 


east  reward. 

"Then  answered  he  and  eatd  :  I  thull  (quoth  lie)  lie  sworn  to  (lice  to 

ii'i'P  thy  counsel,  in,. I  fnllil  thine  intent  a-  li.i  forth  u.i  I  can. 
"Then  mod  the  n.iii-l.-r  uf  tlui  htup.  1  l-.vu  Hiy  li.ily  num.,  Ihnnlran 

i     her  till  Hie  f-.'l.l    I  I,,  I.  1    I, live;    .,!,.  I    i:     I    nil,  y. I, t. .Ill  the  h.V,: 

ago  thy  help,  I  will  give  thee  whatsoever  thou  wilt  drain) 

"Then  said  the  lady's  servant,  tell  mu  by  «hat  means  I  may  best 

"If  thee.     1  ht'ii  -ni.l  riie  i t.-r  ..f  Ue-  -l.i>.,  -■■  I .■  to  thy  lads'  ugum, 

■'li-il  In  .,  (hut  1  i.  ill  not  deliver  I.,  Mi."  I'lir.-I'il,  .'io'e|.|  ."h, i  i.i.  ,'i,i,  I,-:- 
«W;  and  do  thou  bul  Lriny  her  in  my  rW\y,  m:d  if  lln:  wind  be  good  and 
«,  then  I  purpose  to  lead  her  away.     Thy  counsel  iti  good,  qunih  tin 

'Iv'il    St..rV,ll|t,      tlli.Til'i. O.'     glVll      MU-     : :■     IV  IV.  II''  I,     llll'.l     I     -ll'lll      nihil     tiiv 

**nj, 

"XViw  when  he  had  received  his  reward,  lie  want  again  to  I  be  lady, 
■'-'I  t',1,1  her,  thill  by  no  mi  an,-  the  mii.-ler  of  the  i-i.ip  would  deliver  him 
M'l'nlnrh,  eiij..pt  she  came  to  him  herself. 

"Ilie  lady  believed  her  servant,  and  went  to  the  nhip.     Now  when 


lvill  IXTRODUCnON. 

"  When  the  muter  saw  that  she  was  within  the  ship,  and  the  wind 
was  good,  he  drew  Dp  the  ail  sod  tailed  forth. 

"When  the  lady  perceived  this,  thns  die  said  to  tbe  roaster :  0  master 
(quoth  she),  what  treason  is  this  thou  hast  done  to  me  ?  The  master 
answered  and  said :  certainly  it  is  so,  that  I  must  needs  *  •  *  *  espouse 
thee'  O  good  sir,  quoth  she,  I  have  made  a  tow,  that  I  shall  never  do 
such  a  thing  •  *  *  •  Soothly  (quoth  he),  if  you  «ill  not  grant  me  with 
your  good  will,  I  will  cast  you  out  into  the  midst  of  the  sea,  and  there 
shall  ye  die  an  evil  death :  If  it  be  so  (quoth  she),  that  I  must  needs  con- 
tent, or  else  die,  first  I  pray  thee  to  prepare  a  private  place  in  the  end  of 
the  ship,  whereas  I  may  fulfil  thine  intent  ere  I  die,  and  also  I  pray  thee, 
that  I  may  say  my  prayers  unto  the  father  of  heaven,  that  he  may  have 

"  The  master  believed  her.  wherefore  he  did  ordain  her  a  cobbin  in 
the  end  of  the  ship,  wherein  she  kneeled  down  on  both  her  knees  and 
made  her  prayers,  Buying  on  this  wise :  0  thou  my  Lord  God,  thou  hast 
kept  me  from  my  vouth  in  id— ""— ,  keep  me  now  •  •  *  •  *  so  that  I 
ma;  ever  serve  thee  with  a  clean  heart  and  mind,  and  let  not  this  wicked 
man  prevail  with  me,  nor  any  olhtr  the  like  wickedness  come  nigh  me. 
When  she  bail  ended  h'T  prayers,  there  arose  suddenly  a  groat  tempest 
in  the  sea,  so  tbiit  the  ship  nil  brnst,  ami  all  thai  w.-re  therein  perished. 
save  the  lady ;  and  she  caught  a  cable  and  saved  herself,  and  the  master 
caught  a  board  of  flu:  -lop  am!  Kiml  himself  likewise  ;  nevertheless,  she 
knew  not  of  him,  nor  In'  i.f  hi:]1,  for  tbev  were  driven  to  divers  coasts. 
The  lady  landed  in  her  own  empire  ntiir  to  a  ri,:h  ,.-ity,  «heroin  she  was 
honourably  received,  ami  -In;  lived  so  holy  a  life,  that  God  gave  her 
grace  and  power  to  heal  siik  folk  ■.>(  all  manner  <.!  diseases;  wherefore 
Hum.:  ■■;,]„.  niiu'li  (,i..(.li  '■■  ;,-  r.  1-ti,  ■■;■  ..ike.;,  hi  in.  I,  ami  l:i[n.',  an. I  ..-v..  i\ 
man  through  the  grace  of  Cod  ami  )ht  good  endeavour  was  healecf, 
wherefore  Her  iininn  was  known  thro'  diuera  regions.  Nevertheless,  she 
was  nrit  known  as  the  empress.  A(  the  -a;:.e  i.iih;  c III-  emperor's  brother, 
that  had  ban  Red  lira'  lief,, re  by  the  hair,  was  sin  ill  en  with  a.  foul  leprosie. 
The  knighl  Hint  slew  the  earl's  .hi  lighter,  and  pot  (he  liloodv  knife  in  her 
hand,  was  blind,  deaf,  ami  had  the  pal.ie.  The  ihief  thai  iieln.ycd  her 
tn  the  inu-ter  of  I  he  ship,  was  lame  and  full  of  the  cram]j,  and  the  master 
ut  fhe  ship  distraught  of  his  wits. 

"When  the  emperor  heard  that  so  holv  a  woman  was  in  the  city,  he 
milled  hi"  brothi  r.  mid  said  fo  him  thus  :  ('in  we,  dear  I  nut  her,  unto  this 

In  ile  iv.- in  Hi  a  I   i-i  dw-lhng  in  tins  e  it  V,  that    she   iiiuv   lh  ill   tboe  of   rliv 

leprosio.  Would  1"  (h'»l.  (J  nnlile  ho. tie  r.;.]. uith  he),  that  I  were  healed. 
Anon  the  emperor  ivit.li  his  hint  her  ivenl  tuwjird  the  e.ity.  Then  when 
the  eili/en-  hi .iii-i I  I'f  1 1 is-  eoTiiii.g.  thev  rei.  ive.l  him  honourahly  with  pro- 
ccssion  and  all  priivisinu  debiting  bis  eslate.  And  then  the  emperor 
enquired  of  lie  eili'eus.  if  any  sm'h  holy  woman  were  among  them,  that 
could  heal  sick  folk  of  llieir  diseases  '  The  eitiwais  answered  and  said, 
that  such  stl  ont'  there  was.  Now  at  the  same  time  was  come  to  the 
same  city,  the  knight  that  slew  the  earl's  daughter,  ami  Lhe  thief  which 
she  saved  from  the  galli.wa,  and  the  master  of  the  ship,  to  bo  healed  of 
their  diseases. 

"Then  was  tbe  empress  called  forth  before  the  emperor,  but  she 
muffled  her  face  as  well  as  she  could,  that  the  emperor  her  husband 
should  not  know  her,  ami  when  she  hud  «i  done,  she  saluted  him  with 
great  reverence,  as  apportioned  to  bis  stale:  and  again  he  in  like 
manner,  saying  thus :  i)  g.>ml  lady,  if  thou  list  of  thy  kindness  to  heal 
my  brother  of  his  leprosie,  ask  of  me  what  you  will,  and  I  shall  grant  it 
thee  for  thy  reward, 


"  When  the  empr 


INTRODUCTION. 


\  heard  this,  she  looked  about  her,  and  saw  there 

tl™  Ihe  Usrl's  duu^liti-r.  Wind  in.. I  deaf,  til..-  thle!  that  sin-  saved  lr II.' 

gs.ih.ws  lame,  and  also  tho  master  of  the  ship  distraught  out  of  his  wit*. 
and  all  were  come  to  her  to  be  healed  01  their  lnnL.nln-.-..  and  knew  her 
i.et ;  but  (tough  they  knew  her  not,  she  knew  them  well.  Then  said 
slit  unto  the  emperot  thus  t  My  reverend  lord,  though  you  would  give 
in.:  :i![  your  empire,  I  rJinnot  hen  I  yi'ir  brother,  n.ir  none  rif  the»  other, 
i^ctjit  they  acknowledge  oponh  «li.it  great  evil  they  have  done, 

■■  When  111.'  .-m|i0rer  heard  this,   hi-  In  rued   lorn   towards  his  brother. 

mid  said  unto  him  :  Brother,  acknowledge  openly  thy  sin  before  nil  these 

I1-.I-.,  ili.it  tlmu  nmvest  lie  huali-il  df  lliv  .-ii  kn.'-H.     Then  anon  be  began 

bed  lad  In-  life,  but  In-  told  i,.,t  how  !.■■  h  ..i  h.uiged  :!,■■ 

smprewin  the  force  st  l>y  the  hu.it  of  the  he„il  iuo.-l  deapitefully. 

"  When  he  bud  uelinuwledg.-d  nil  tliut  bill]  li.-t,  tin;  empress  replied. 
tndiaid:  Sooth  ly,  inv  lord,  I  would  gladly  liv  unto  hi  in  my  mediciue, 
imtl  net  right  well  it  is  in  vain,  for  lie  bath  nol  made  a  full  confession. 
"Tbe  emperor  hearing  this,  he  turned  (uwards  his  I  .rather,  and  said 
in  Bus  wise :  What  evil,  j>mi#,  or  orher  unhippv  wroi.die.lne-s  ii-  in 
*»?  Beeatthou  not  bow  that  thou  art  a  foul  leper:  tlierofore  aclmnw- 
felge  thy  Bin  truly,  that  thou  may  est  be  whole,  or  else  avoid  my  company 


tell  my  life  ojienly,  except  I  be 


thee  forgiven 


i  hen 


bod 


r.th.r  u 


"Alt  my  lord  (quoth  he).  I  may 
>TO  of  thy   grace.     What  hast  thou  crest 
'i»[|«'.-r ■-    Then  answer,..!  bis  brother,  and 
Mee  i»  grievous,   and   therefore  I  heartily  ask 
Jnjwror  thought  not  on  the  empr.-ss,  f-.rasmueh 

Ml  ML  wher(  in  he  bad  ■  .11  •ti  .  [■  .  1  bini,  and  In-  should  be  forgiven. 

"When  the  emperor  had  thus  forgiven  bis  brother,  he  be"  in  to  tell 
"paly  how  he  bad  desired  the  empress  to  commit  adultery  with  him. 
"la  because  ahe  denied,  he  had  kau"od  bet  by  the  hair,  in  tbe  forrest,  on 
fids  day. 

"When  the  emperor  heard  this,  he  wag  almost  beside  himself,  and  in 
™  rigs  he  said  thus  :  O  thou  wrelehed  creature,  the  vengeance  of  God 
lj  :  iii'.-a  upon  thee,  and  were  it  not  that  1  have  pardoned  thee,  thou 
wjuldert  die  the  most  shameful  death  that.. -ouid  he  th- night. 

"Tlteti  said  the  knight  that  slow  tbe  earl's  daughter,  1  wot  not  quoth 
«I  «bit  lady  you  uie.au,  but  I  wot.  lli.it  my  b-r.l  lo.lnd  ...|1  a  time  siieli  a 

''v1  Imaging  in  the  fi.rn.-st,  ami  brought  her  i u:  to  his  castle,  and  he 

™*  bet,  and  gave  bet  bis  daughter  to  keep,  and  J  jjnivokt.il  her 
«nuchas  I  could  to  sin  witb  me,  hut  she  would  in  no  vv.se  ..'..iiseiil  '.■■ 
"*i  wherefore  1  alew  tbe  earl's  daughter  that  lay  with  her,  and  when  1 
««din  dono,  I  put  the  bloody  knile  in  [lie  lady's  Iron!,  that  the  earl 
ilionld  think  that  she  had  slain  bis  daughter  with  her  own  hand,  ami 
*™"lie  was  exited  then..-'-.  but  when.'  -be  hi-enme  1  wot  not. 

"Then  said  the  thief,  I  wot  not  of  what  lady  you  mean  ;  but  well  1 
**.  that  seven  office»  were  leading  me  I.,  the  gallows,  and  snub  a  lady 
'"'•'■  tiding  by,  and  bought  me  of  them,  ami  then  went  I  witb  her,  and 
«Imyed  her  unto  the  master  ot  the  ship. 

"Such  a  lady  (quoth  the  master  ..;  [In-  skip),  ren-ivi  .1 1,  and  when  we 
*'■"  in  the  midst  of  the  sea,  1  would  have  lain  with  her,  but  she  kneeled 
'"""]  to  bet  prayers,  and  mii.ui  rbeie  arose  such  a  tempest,  that  the  ahi|. 
■'''■1;  ..I.  .imt'nll  therein  w,,s  dt.jWiieu,  sale  she  ami  I,  but  afterward 
"  "1  befell  of  her  I  wot  not. 


INTRODUCTION. 

"  Then  cried  the  empress  with  n  hied  voice,  ami  said:  Socthly  dear 
friends,  ye  do  now  truly  eorife-s  and  ■  i . - ■ -. ! ^ j i ■.-  the  truth,  wherefore  I  will 
no»  'iruily  my  medieine,  ami  iirmn  they  received  their  healths. 

L1  When  tEie  hide  tin-  empress  hail  thus  dune,  sin-  uncovered  her  face 

1"  tl lu  ]i.ir  it-,  iinil  hi-  l".  .1-1  !,-,!■  i:L  ki.eiv  ln-r,  ui,.-l  run  I...1  !..■]-.  nil  J  embraced 

her  in  his  arm?,  n  1  ■  ■  i  kissed  her  oftentimes,  mid  fur  joy  he  wept  bitterly  : 
saving,  Dlc-sed  be  tii .J,  nr.iv  I  have  fimiid  that  r  desired.  And  when  he 
h:id  thus  s.i  id,  ho  led  her  tin  mo  !.u  tin-  i  -i  l:i  .-h.-  wi;h  :.-je.it  joy  ;  and  after, 
when  it  pleased  Almi^hly  Wl,  they  einl'-'l  beth  their  lives 'in  peace  and 

"  Oceleve  has  rob^-d  tl.is  story  in  verso,  from  the  present  work 
(Ma.  Jleg.  17  D.  vi.J,  and  it  is  also  t<i  lie  found  in  the  I'atraiias  ei 
Timomda  (1'atr.  21).  The  outline  ha-  been  burrowed  from  one  of  the 
)',i»Uh  fonts,  or  miracles  of  the  Virgin  Mary.i  The  incident  of  the 
bloody  knife  occurs  likewise  io  (.IIhiucit's  Miih  0/  l.-.in''  Title,  and  in  ■ 
story  related  by  Gowor,  fA'iifi-sti'i  Jiuiiuii",  t'ol.  32." — Douce. 


A  few  additional  remarks  upon  the  stories  to  follow,  for  which 

■  i.l.!:- -■   I  ■   l"-:i'.l;i-.   ■■-..->!!  cl;'-.. ,   '.viiay    I    i\  m   1  !-,!■  rojek-i"  10  a  v  1.-- 

disposed  to  ei'iisidL'r,  as  tid ] s-jillc  a  inarch  as  the  doughty  kmirhts-  iff 
old  experienced  in  gaining  access  to  some  enchanted  castle.  But  let 
me  whisper  in  his  ear  that  the  distressed  damsels  whom  his  in- 
trepidity shall  relieve  are  most  of  theni  passing  fair  and  gentle. 
He  cannot  display  resolution  in  a  better  cause)  and  if  (de  gustibnt 
noa  est  disputandvm !)  their  beauty  sometimes  disappoint  his 
[-.ipeelations,  let  him  remember  that  adoration  has  been  offered 
them  by  past  ages  of  heroic  spirits :  that  bards,  whose  names  are 
familiar  in  our  mouths  as  household  words,  have  condescended 
to  adopt  thetn;  and,  therefore,  that  they  possesa  an  undoubted 
claim  to  public  nmsiderutiun,  if  not  on  the  ground  of  their  own 
intrinsic  excellence. 

Much  of  the  merit  of  these  fables  consists  in  the  curious  and 
interesting  light  wiiirb  they  throw  upon  a  period  necessarily  involved 
in  great  obscurity.  The  fictions  are  strongly  and  vividly  delineated; 
and  the  reader  iWIs  himself  Lurried  hack  into  the  romantic  BOetioa  of 
chivalrous  emprize,  and  busily  mingling  in  the  commotions  of  camp 
and  oonrt.  The  fan  t  us  tie  ies."iihilJons  of  many  of  the  tales  accord 
with  historical  notices  of  chivalry;  in  which  the  most  ridiculous 
commands  were  imposed  and  executed.  The  sports  of  the  field, 
united  with  the  pursuit  of  wild  odventnre :  love,  and  war,  and 
devotion;  absurd  penances  for  unimaginable  crimes,  and  carelessness 

'  See  Vincent  of  Beanyil»,  ,vp«.  Thiol.  Let.  vtli.  cup.  BO,  »1. 


INTRODUCTION.  Ixi 


for  the  commission  of  enormous  ones,  form  no  small  part  of  the 
Vteseat  compilation.  Every  natural  phenomenon  is  a  miraole  ;  and 
oonEirned  as  best  may  serve  the  interests,  or  accord  with  the 
]iti?jralices  of  the  party.  Tub  first  object  ia  to  esponse  some  ineffably 
flir  daughter  :  whose  affections  are  disposed  of,  not  according  to  the 
Mramon  excellent  system  of  policy,  or  power,  or  wealth,  bat  by 
the  simple  and  singularly  efficacious  method  of  resolving  certain 
raptBtie»!  in  expounding  riddles,  or  in  compliance  with  some 
inexplicable  vow.  If  this  should  be  considered  no  very  favourable 
account  of  what  the  reader  may  look  for,  it  should  be  remembered 
tliaite  tales  in  question  are  faithful  representations  of  other  days, 
«nil  that  the  character  with  which  the  period  is  impressed  tolerates 
mill  justifies  many  absurdltios.  Yet  are  we  not  to  suppose  every 
'-ins  absurd  which  now  appears  so.  The  progress  of  civilization  has 
inttodnced  a  vast  number  of  unnecessary  refinements,  at  which  our 
ftneesiors  would  laugh  ;  perhaps  more  boisterously,  but  with  as  much 
11  fH'il  w  justice  as  their  politer  descendants  exhibit  at  the  inartificial 
clmmoter  of  earlier  times. 

Ignorance  is  always  credulous;  and  therefore,  in  considering  the 
probability  or  improbability  of  the  fable,  we  must  consider  how  it 
"as  calculated  to  impress  those  for  whom  it  was  invented,  or  to 
«tram  it  was  told.  If  the  narrator  suited  his  contrivance  to  tho 
ninloRanding,  and  communicated  pleasure  to  tho  imagination,  of  hi» 
traders  or  auditors,  he  possessed  the  requisite  ingenuity  ;  and  bis 
1'rrit  was  proportionally  great.  We  ought  not  to  make  our  own 
tte  standard  of  others'  judgments  ;  much  less  ought  we  to  impose 
onrownage  and  nation  as  the  criterion  of  past  times  ami  fun.'iu'i» 
«rantras.  Comparatively  secluded  as  the  monk»  at  all  times  were, 
their  views  of  life  mast  necessarily  have  been  confined  also :  aucl 
tbeir  simplicity  would  easily  be  duped  by  those  who  were  interested 
in  deceiving  them.  Prom  the  pulpit,  whence  it  would  appear  that 
[neir  stories  wore  delivered,  tho  opportunity  of  adding  new  fictions, 
(rathe  purpose  of  illustrating  now  positions,  would  be  irresistible; 
"d  bere  we  trace  the  source  of  many  of  the  strained  allusions  which 
"orepeatedly  occur.  Tbe  good  old  custom  likewise,  ci  enlivening  a 
"iaWr'i  evening  by  the  relation  of  fabliaux,  accompanied,  no  doubt, 
'"/«oral  and  mytieai  application,  gives  as  a  delightful  picture  of 
ua  social  intercourse  and  familiarity  of  remote  times  ;  but  discovers 
Wat  another  incentive  to  eitravagant  fancy  and  high-Sown  conceit, 
Tas  attention  of  their  hearers  could  only  be  riveted  by  the  marvel- 
fc*;   and    that    which    was    barely   probable,    from    the    constant 


I 


lxii  INTRODUCTION. 

recurrence  of  extravagant  fiction— from  the  itching  oars,  which 
opened  only  to  toe  wildest  exaggeration,  naturally  became  no  longer 
acceptable,  because  taste  waa  vitiated,  and  the  imagination  over- 
wrought. All  (he ■-■.'  I'ii'irmiis'inncoa  require  consideration  in  forming 
a  judgment  of  the  ensuing  tales.  They  certainly  vary  in  point 
of  merit;  bnt  many  of  them  are  eminently  beautiful.  Some  display 
a  rioh  vein  of  pathos  ;  and  there  ore  passages  of  deep  poetio  interest. 
In  the  description  of  manners,  however,  they  are  unrivalled ;  and  my 
aim  baa  been,  to  render  passages  of  this  kind  with  ail  fidelity  ;  while, 
in  the  diction,  1  have  adhered  as  closely  as  possible  to  that  simplioity 
of  stylo  which  forms  the  principal  charm  of  ancient  narrative. 

In  perusing  the  conversational  ports,  the  reader  who  has  pored 
over  illuminated  manuscripts  will  recall  subjects  to  which  they 
apply.  He  will  rr.-rnllivi  fair  Indies  glittering  iu  every  colour  of  the 
rainbow,  chattering  from  a  window  to  grotesque-looking  gentlemen 
with  pink  feathers  drooping  from  immense  hats;  and  misshapen 
shoes,  vying  in  the  longitude  of  their  peaks  with  a  barber's  pole  i  he 
will  be  reminded  of  grim.visagad  emparora  ornamented  with  royal 
beards  and  projecting  jaws — in  short,  he  will  distinguish  the  whola 
of  what  these  volumes  delineate.  There  is  in  tho  British  Museum 
a  beautiful  mai]ii-i::t'i|>[  of  tho  fliimjTit  de  la  floss,  which  will,  in  most 
respects,  exemplify  my  observations. 

It  would  appear  that  hospitality  waa  a  never. failing  virtue  ;  and 
the  eagerness  with  which  pilgrims  and  wayfaring  persona  were 
invited  to  share  the  repast  and  partake  the  couch  of  the  friendly 
citizen,  or  to  occupy  the  castle  of  the  knight,  is  a  pleasing  trait  in 
die  character  of  the  times.  Bnt  it  will  be  thought  that  wisdom  was 
a  scarce  commodity,  when  three  prudential  maxims  wero  valued  at  a 
thousand  florins.  [See  Tale  CIIL]  Considering  the  result,  they 
were  cheaply  purchased ;  although,  in  these  days,  when  advice  ii 
much  ofteuer  given  than  paid  for — even  with  thanks,  the  price  may 
be  deemed  somewhat  of  the  highest. 

The  many  stories  on  the  6ubjeot  of  adultery  seem  to  indicate 
a  bad  moral  state  of  society  at  tho  time  they  were  written  [  and  it  is 
to  be  feared  that  tho  lawless  fooling  which  chivalry  in  ita  decline 
exhibited,  affords  an  unhappy  confirmation.  Whether  the  fact  of 
the  monks  levelling  mnoh  of  their  satire  against  tbo  fair  sex  is  also 
corroborative,  or  whether  it  proceed  from  that  impotence  of  mind 
which,  being  itself  fretted  by  circumstance,  would  gladly  etfaee  or 
deteriorate  whatever  is  the  object  of  its  unavailing  wishes,  1  do  not 
take  upon  me  to  decide. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Ixiii 


necessary  that  I  should  advertise  tho  reader  of  what  he  will 
to  perceive,  that  the  tales  are  not  always  perfect  in  every 
lor  are  the  positions  laid  down  at  the  commencement  always 
This  may  result  from  ignorant  transcribers  having 
nmitted  some  passages,  and  interpolated  others :  and  snch  a 
lanpoaition  accounts,  as  I  observed  before,  for  the  numerous  varia- 
tions which  appear  in  various  copies,  as  well  as  for  tho  introduction 
nl  certain  expressions  that  have  been  ooneidercd  arguments  in  belialf 
of  thsir  origin.  That  they  have  boon  collected  from  all  countries, 
and  at  many  times,  I  have  no  donbt.  Some  appear  of  Italian 
ccinstrnotion,  a  few  German,  bat  the  greater  part  oriental.  The 
»h"t>lme  power  of  the  emperors,  who  sport  with  life  and  death  in  the 
most  capricious  and  extraordinary  manner —the  constant  introduction 
uf  tlia  leprosy  and  crucifixion,  amply  confirm  their  connection  wilt) 
tneEirt. 

"It  may  not  be  thought  impertinent  to  close  this  discourse  with  a 
remark  on  the  jroRALtlnTio.fs  snbjoined  to  the  stories  of  the  Gesta 
Komisobum,  This  was  an  age  of  vision  and  mystery :  and  every 
*ork  was  believed  to  contain  a  double,  or  secondary,  meaning. 
Nothing  escaped  this  eccentric  spirit  of  refiocmont  and  abstraction  ; 
ind,  together  with  the  Bible,  as  we  have  seen,  not  only  the  general 
history  of  ancient  times  was  explained  allegorically,  but  even  the 
pocticsl  fiotions  of  the  classios  were  made  to  signify  the  great  truths 
of  religion,  with  a  degree  of  boldness,  and  a  want  of  discrimination, 
which,  ia  another  age,  would  have  acquired  tho  character  of  the 
tnost  profane  levity,  if  not  of  absolute  impiety,  and  can  only  be 
Hondsd  from  the  simplicity  of  the  state  of  knowledge  which  then 
prereilsd. 

"Thus,  God  creating  man  of  clay,  animated  with  the  vital  princij'k 
»1  respiration,  was  the  story  of  Prometheus,  who  formed  a  man  of 
ntnilar  materials,  to  which  he  communicated  life  by  fire  stolen  from 
iearen.  Christ  twice  born,  of  His  Father,  God,  and  of  His  mother, 
Huy,  was  prefigured  by  Bacchus,  who  was  first  born  of  Semele,  and 
•Howards  of  Jupiter.  And  as  Minerva  sprung  from  the  brain  of 
Jupiter,  so  Christ  proceeded  from  God  without  a  mother.  Christ 
tarn  of  the  Virgin  Mary  was  expressed  in  tho  fablo  of  Danae  shut 
within  a  tower,  through  the  covering  of  which  Jnpiter  descended  in 
»  tbower  of  gold,  and  begat  Perseus.  Action,  killed  by  his  own 
Wnda,  was  a  type  of  the  persecution  ond  death  of  our  Saviour.  Tho 
foot  Lycophron  relates  that  Hercules,  in  returning  from  the  adventure 
•'tho  golden  fleece,  waa  shipwrecked  i  and  that,  being  devoured  by  n 


lxiv 


INTRODUCTION. 


he  wm  disgorged  alive  on  the  shore  after  three  davs. 
Here  waa  an  obvious  symbol  of  Christ's  resurrection.  John  Waleys, 
au  English  Franciscan  of  the  thirteenth  century,  in  hie  moral 
exposition  of  Ovid's  Metamorphoses,  affords  many  other  instances 
equally  ridiculous ;  and  who  forgot  that  he  was  describing  a  mors 
heterogeneous  obaoa,  than  that  which  makes  so  conspicuous  a  figure 
in  his  author's  exordium,  and  which  combines,  amid  the  monstrous 
and  indigested  aggregate  of  its  unnatural  associations, 

"  At  length,  compositions  professedly  allegorical,  with  which  that 
age  abounded,  were  resolved  into  allegories  for  which  they  were 
never  intended.  In  the  famous  Eomaunt  of  the  Kose,  written 
about  the  year  1310,  the  poet  couches  the  difficulties  of  an  ardent 
lover  in  attaining  the  object  of  his  passion,  under  the  allegory  of  a 
rose,  which  is  gathered  in  a,  delicious  but  almost  inaccessible  garden. 
The  theologists  proved  this  rose  to  bo  the  white  rose  of  Jericho,  the 
new  Jerusalem,  a  state  of  grace,  divine  wisdom,  the  holy  Virgin,  ur 
eternal  beatitude,  at  nouo  of  which  obstinate  heretics  can  ever 
arrive.  The  chemists  pretended  that  it  was  the  philosopher's 
stone;  the  civilians,  that  it  was  the  most  consummate  point  of 
equitable  decision;  and  the  physicians,  that  it  was  the  infallible 
panacea.  In  a.  word,  other  professions,  in  the  most  elaborate 
commentaries,  explained  away  the  lover's  rose  into  the  mysteries  of 
their  own  respective  science.  Jn  conformity  to  this  practice,  Tasso 
■■ilkguriied  his  own  poem;  and  a  flimsy  structure  of  morality  was 
raised  on  the  ohimerifHj  •.■■.  inceptions  ot  AnosuTs  Uilando.  In  the 
year  1557,  a  translation  of  a  part  of  Amadm  do  Caule  appeared  in 
Franca;  with  a  learned  preface,  developing  the  valuable  atorea  of 
profound  instruction,  concealed  under  the  aaki  i  letter!  of  the  old 
romances,  which  were  discernible  only  in  the  intelligent)  and  totally 
unpercoived  by  common  readers ;  who.  icst^ml  of  plotting  the  fruit, 
were  obliged  to  rest  contented  with  la  si»ij.J.  V:  kl'S  d*  la  Lecture 
litterale.  Even  Spenser,  at  a  later  period,  could  not  indulge  his 
native  impulse  to  descriptions  of  chivalry,  without  framing  such  a 
story,  as  conveyed,  under  the  dark  conceit  of  ideal  champions,  a  set 
of  historic  transactions,  and  an  exemplification  of  the  nature  of  the 
twelve  moral  virtues,  fie  presents  his  fantastic  queen  with  a  rich 
romantic  mirror,  which  showed  the  wondrous  achievements  of  her 
Uingnilicent  ancestry:— 

'  Met.  lib.  I.  Ik 


INTRODUCTION. 


■And  llion,  0  fairest  print. 


5ll  thy  great  ancestry.'1 
"It  was  not,  however,  solely  from  an  unmeaning  and  a  wanton 
spirit  of  refinement  that  the  fashion  of  resolving  everything  into 
■Ilegory,  so  universally  prevailed.  Tbe  same  apology  may  be  offered 
for  cibaliatioal  interpreters,  both  of  the  classics  and  of  the  old 
romances.  Tbe  former,  not  willing  that  those  books  should  be  quite 
eiploded  which  contained  the  ancient  mythology,  laboured  to 
reconcile  the  apparent  absurdities  of  the  pagan  system  in  tbe 
Christian  mysteries,  by  demonstrating  a  figurative  resambliince.  The 
litter,  as  true  learning  began  to  dawn,  with  a  view  of  supporting  fur 
awlila  the  expiring  credit  of  giants  and  magicians,  ware  compelled 
to  palliate  those  monstrous  incredibilities,  by  a  bold  attempt  to 
uorSTel  the  mystic  web  which  had  been  wove  by  fairy  hands,  and 
bt  shewing  that  truth  was  hid  under  the  gorgeous  veil  of  Gothic 

'  Wirtoe.  /nliwiuclory  Hitter.  See  Hist,  of  g.  Poetry,  vol.  1H.  d-  Idv.  e£  Kq.  I 


Wirton,  which  tbe  render  will  readily 
That  tip  Is  frequently  incorrect  is  «rl 


.[ntranklyavowlDg.  I 

a  fund  of  Information 
latter  writer,  whose  In 
m  Justly  ar 


s  certain ;  but  he  la  blamed  by  til 
ey  hive,  forgot  the  difficulty  of  his 
typographical  errors  In  a  work  ol 


OUTLINES   OF   THE   TALES. 


■   A  king"»  daoghter,  guarded  by  five  soldiers,  elopes  with 
a  duke.    She  is  subsequently  received  back  by  her 


1-    Of  duty  towards  par  outs    ... 
Ill    B(,w  tint   the  law   [niuitilu-s 


i  for  the 


:   Of  the  conflicting  claims  of  mercy  ami  justice 
}  How  a  youth,  taken  by  pirates,  was  left  in  prison  by 
hie  father,  but  rf-li-dsr-il  l.y  hi~  mpj.ir's  'laughter 
How  that  inconsiderate  oaths  do  not  continue  of  force 

forever  

How  a  Roman  nobleman  had  two  sons,  of  whom  one 
married  a  harlot,  and  was  at  first  rejected  but  after- 
wards received  by  his  father 

■  Story  of  a,  statue  with  a  <.'nl.li  n  rin-r,  heard,  and  cloak 
How  the  son  of  a  certain  emperor  wished   to  slay  him, 

but  was  dissuadi-il  frr-m  Li-  purpose 

■  Of  the  rings  of  Memory  and  Oblivion 

>   Story  of  the  queen's  daughter  who  was  nourished  on 

■  Of  a  wonderful   rivulet  that  Honed  thrfitigh   the  jaws 

or  a  putrid  dog 
L   A  queen  commits  incest,  luil.  Win;;  peniti'nt  is  saved  ... 


LXVIU  OUTLINES   OF   THE   TALES. 

XIV.    Story  of  a,  son  who  left  his  mother  and  rescued  hia 

XV.    The  life  of  St.  Alexius  

XVI.    An  emperor  discovers  a  sarcophagus  with   certain 

Words  engraved  on  it 
XVII.    Story  of  Guido,  who  rendered  sis  hinds  of  service 
to  a  certain  emperor  ... 
"•■XVIII.     How  a  certain  Julian  unwittingly  killed  his  parents 
XIX.    Of  the  quarrel  between   Pompey  and  Ciesar,  and 
of  the  passage  of  tho  Kubicnu 
XX.     How  tho  Emperor  Conrad  unconsciously  caused  the 
fulfilment   of  a  prophecy   which   had  filled   him 
with  anger  ... 
XXI.     How  a  king  of  Lacodaunon  sent  secret  intelligent» 
to  his  countrymen 
XXII.    How  tin'  fcisyprinn»  ]iM>i™ri't]  Ms  and  Scrapie 

XXIII.  Of  tho  burning  on  the  funeral  pile  of  an  emperor's 

XXIV.  Of  a  magician  who  enticed  his  enemies   into  on 

enchanted  garden  anil  destroyed  them 
XXV.     A  lady,  whose  dominions  have  been  laid  waste  by  a 
certain  king,   is  defended    by   n   pilgrim,  who  is 
slain  during  tho  battle 
XXVL    Of  a  queen'a  illegitimate  son,  who  was  clothed  in 
garments  half  prior,  hull'  cwtly 
XXVII.    How  an  emperor  left  his  daughter  in  charge  of  a 
seneschal,  who  disobeyed  II"-  orders  given  him, 
and  was  put  to  a  miserable  death 
XXVIII.    How,  through  the  cunning  of  an  old  woman,  a  youth 
obtained  the  love  of  a  noble  married  lady 
XXIX.    How  the  skin  of  a  certain  unjust  judge  was  nailed 

on  the  judgment  seat 
XXX.    How  a  certain   king   treated    his   generals   when 

XXXI.    The  remarks  of  certain  philosophers  ou  the  death 
of  Alexander  the  Great  ...  ...  ... 


OUTLINES  OF  THE  TALES. 

lxii 

nxu. 

Remark  of  Seneca  on  poisoned  corpses  ... 

"*■ 

XXS.III. 

Of  a.  tree  on  which  three  successive  wives  of  one 

man  hanged  themselves 

B6 

xurv. 

Aristotle's  advice  to  Alexander 

«7 

XXX?, 

How  Soman  noMetuen  became  reconciled  after 

being  at  variance 

68 

XXXVI. 

Discourse  of  a  philosopher  before  a  certain  king 

69 

SXXVIL 

Of   the    wisdom    displayed    by    an    eaglh    when 

jtttzii'kril  bv  the  serpent  I'eniu 

72 

MSVIII. 

A  dove  brings  news  to  a  beleaguered  city 

73 

XXXE. 

How  discord  between  two  brothers  was  brought 

74 

XL. 

How  a  learned  clerk  discovered  the  infidelity  of 
the  wife  of  a  certain  knight 

ra 

XLI. 

Of  the  self-sacrifice  of  an  Athenian  king 

7« 

XIAI. 

A  prophecy  concerning  the  fall  of  Rome 

70 

ttJOL 

Of  a  chasm  in  the  midst  of  Rome,  and  how  it  was 
closed 

77 

ix-rv. 

Of  an  artificer  who   made  glass  as  flexible  as 
copper,  and  of  the  wickedness  of  the  Emperor 
Tiberius  ... 

78 

Slj, 

Of  the  four  reputed  sons   of  a  deceased   king, 
and   how   it  wu  decided   wIjuIi  of  them  was 

really  his               

80 

S-X--VI. 

How  a  certain  man  gathered  more  leaves  than 
he  could  carry 

81 

xuvn. 

Of  a  Danish  king  who  saw  the  three  kinps  of 
Cologne  in  a  vision 

82 

n-vuL 

The  story  of  Pbularis  of  Agrigentura  and  Perillus 

84 

^Llx, 

Of  the  treachery  of  the  Duchess  Rosimila  and  its 

reward 

85 

L. 

Of  the    Emperor    Zelongus,   who  sacriSced   his 
right  eye  for  his  son's  soke 

8S 

U 

Tiberius    Cesar's    reason   for   allowing    oortupt 

governors  to  retain  their  offices         ...            .., 

87 

OUTLINES  OF  THE  TALES. 

LIL 

N'oliU;  conduct  of  Quintus  Fiihin.j  MuviiniiB 

tt 

LIII. 

Of  an  old  woman  who  prayed  for  the  long  life  of 

Dion  ysius  of  Syracuse 

8*. 

LIV. 

How  this  Emperor  Frodorie  llu-  .Si-cmd  constructed 

a  gate  in  Capua 

90 

LV. 

Allegory  concerning    Justice,   Truth,    Moray,    and 

Peace 

90 

LVI. 

How  a  prince  caused  a  certain  merchant  to  cease 
from  envying  him     ... 

93 

LVII 

Of  the  speaking  statue  in  Rome,  and  i>f  the  wisdom 
of  Focus  the  carpenter 

96 

lviii. 

How  a  malefactor,  who  stated  three  indisputable 
truths,  was  dismissed  unpunished 

99 

LIS. 

The  story  of  the  Emperor  Jovinian 

00 

LX. 

Of  a  king's  daughter  who  was  wonderfully  swift 

offoot 

OS 

LSI. 

How  the  Emperor  Claudius  gave  his  daughter  in 

marriage  to  a  philosopher 

OS 

Lin. 

Of  !.)'■■■  portrait  of  the  beautiful  Florentine 

10 

M.XIIL 

How  a  certain  valiant  knight  won  the  daughter  of 
an  emperor  ... 

u 

LS1V. 

How  a   certain   king  took   a.  wise   and    beautiful 

virgin  to  wife 

14 

LXV. 

Of  a  king  who,  on  a  certain  occasion,  was  obliged 
to  let  Ms  horse  go  without  food 

15 

I.XVI. 

How    a   knight   recovered   her    dominions  for   a 
certain   lady,  and  was  slain   before  he  could  be 

married  to  her 

16 

Lxvn. 

Of  two  knights,  one  wise,  and  one  foolish,  and  of 

their  rniserable  end   ... 

IS 

LXVIII. 

How   the   wife   of  a   knight    was    rebuked    by    the 

crowing  of  two  cocks,  but  not  of  the  thjrd 

21 

LXIX. 

Of   the   wonderful   whiteness   of   the   shirt   of   a 
certain  carpenter 

22 

f" 

Of  a  king's  daughter  who  would  be  married  only 

on  the  fulfilment  of  three  conditions     ... 

21 

OUTLINES   OF   THE   TALES. 

kxi 

LXXL 

How  a  tome  and  a  blind  man  arrived  safely  to 

***" 

enjoy  a  feast  given  by  a  certain  king 

vm 

IJCTTI. 

Of  a  king  who  handed  over  his  crown  to  his  son, 
win',     proving     ungrateful,     wo»    afterward* 

deposed               ...            ... 

127 

iisni. 

How  B  certain  fellow,  dual  ring  to  client  other*, 

lost  his  eyes  without  getting  tiny  advantage 

UB 

LX2IV. 

How  a  eertuin  king  linim-allied  a  gulden  apple 

to  the  greatest  fool  tlint  DOHU  be  found 

ISO 

LSXV. 

Of  the  three  daughters  of  a  king  who,  being 

widows,  would  not  marry  again      ... 

132 

LXXTL 

Of  the  wonderful  skill  und  friendship  of  two 

physicians             

133 

LXSTH. 

Of  the  two  daughters  of  a  king 

135 

usvnj. 

Why  a  certain  king's  daughter  would  not  marry 

a  second  time      ...            ...            ...            ... 

1M 

LXIDC 

Of  the  delight  of  a  certain  king  in  little  dog*, 

and  of  the  folly  of  an  ass  ... 

1B7 

txxx. 

Story  of  the  hermit  who  travelled  in  company 

with  an  angel 

nut 

LXXXI. 

Of  the  birth,  life,  and  death  at  P'>po  Gregory  ... 

141 

LXXSU. 

Of  the  stork,  the  avenger  iif  adultery 

IN 

uxxm. 

Of  a  wild  boar  that  injured  a  fair  garden,  and 

waa  at  length  slain            ,,.            ...            ... 

uw 

LWxiy. 

How  a  certain  lady  guvo  a.  knight  a  falcon,  and 

afterwards  slew  it              ...            ...            ... 

Ufl 

^Uxv. 

Of  the  Emperor  Tiberius,  tho  harper,  and  the 

whistler    ...            .„            .„ 

158 

LISXVL 

How  a  certain  adulteress  was  released  from  prison 

with  her  son 

m 

uxxva 

How  a  certain  knight,  having  saved  an   em- 

peror's life,  was  recompensed  by  him 

EM 

ntxvm. 

Bow  a  prince  overcanw  hi*  TWfnlfH  by  MBBlDg 

Of  a  knight  who  beijututhed  a  ring  to  each  of 

IUI 

his  three  son*      ...            ...            ...            ,,, 

101 

OUTLINES    OK   THE   TALES. 


xcm. 
scrv. 


XCVII. 

xcvm. 
xcix. 


CVL 


How  a  certain  inheritance  wis  divided  between 
two  brothers 

Story  of  the  three  slothful  men 

How,  of  two  serpents  found  near  a  king's  castle,  the 
male  was  killed  and  not  the  female 

How  the  two  sons  of  a  certain  lord  went  abroad  to 
stud j,  and  what  bcfcl  when  they  returned 

How  a  king's  daughter  became  a  leper,  but  sub- 
sequently recovered  ... 

How  Constantino  assisted  the  Romans 

How  King  Alcsiiiuli t  furtive  sill  t'rimiuiila  who  con- 
fessed their  crini.   beiYjre  :i  cundle  burnt  out 

How  the  Romans  made  a  statue  of  Julius  Ctosar    ... 

A  custom  of  the  Romans  when  besieging  a  town 

How  a  knight  assisted  a  serpent  against  a  toad,  and 
was  in  turn  assisted  by  it 

How  a  woman  esc» pi:' 1  lliu  jiemilly  nf  adultery 

Story  of  Ganter,  who  sought  a  kingdom    ... 

How  a  necromancer  would  by  magic  have  done  to 
death  a  certain  noble  knight,  but  was  himself 
slain  through  the  skill  nf  a  learned  man 

How  the  Emperor  Doiuiiiau  bought  three  wise 
maxims  from  a  merchant,  and  found  great  profit 
therein 

How  a  knight  rendered  n  service  to  a  lion  and  was 
himself  benefited  in  return 

Story  of  the  bell  of  Justice 

Story  of  three  travellers  who  had  one  loaf  between 


CVII.    How  a  certain  subtle   clerk   of  Rome  discovered 
a    subterranean    palace,    and    through    rashness 
perished  therein 
CVIII.  '  How  two  thieves  made  good  their  promises  to  one 
another 
CIX.     Haw  a  certain  avaricious  carpenter  lost  hia  treasure 


0T7TLIKES  OF  THE  TALIS.                    lxxiti 

~s  ex. 

Story  of  the  knight  Placidu»   ... 

m 

CXL 

How  Argus  watched  the  white  cow  of  •  certain 

nobleman,  and  was  deluded  by  Merenry            ... 

m 

cxn. 

Hon  the  sou  of  the  Emperor  Gorgcoins  wis  at 

enmity  with  hie  stepmother               ...            ... 

M 

cxin. 

How  the  Emperor  Adonias  deiigiittd  in  tonrna- 

** 

cm. 

How  a  certain  mac  fell  into  a  pit,  wherein  dwelt  ■ 

dragon,  yet  nevertheless  escaped 

M 

CSV. 

Of  a  wonderful  elephant,  and  how  it  waa  litin    ... 

205 

CXVL 

How  a  queen  waa  obliged  to  beat  her   stepson 

with  the  same  care  that  she  bestowed  on  her  own 

W7 

avn. 

How  a  knight  rescued  a  young  girl  from  a  eertsia 
fellow,  and  of  her   eubeeqaent   ingratitude  to 

her  preserver           ...             ...             

906 

exvm. 

How  a  certain  knight  recovered  a  mm  of  mommy 

from  one  that  would  have  defrauded  him  of  it 

210 

<XL\. 

Of  the  ingratitude  of  a  certain  seneschal  toward* 

■a  poor  man  who  had  saved  bid  life     ... 

IIS 

(.■xx. 

How  a  youth  bad  three  valuable  talismans,  and 
having  lost  them  all   through  the  wiles  of  a 

woman,  at  length  recovered  them    

2i  e 

«XI. 

How  a  young  knight  slew  an  old  one  and  married 

his  wife   ...            ...            ... 

220 

exxa 

How  a  certain  lady  enabled  her  lover  to  escape 

before  her  husband's  face     ... 

222 

taxm 

Of  another  lady  who  cleverly  deceived  her  husband 

223 

'XXIV 

How  a  certain  knight  obtained  pardon  for  his 

offences    ... 

223 

axv. 

Story  of  the  sixty  Mack  crows 

22« 

CXIVI. 

(•lory  of  the  prudence  of  the  young  Papirios,  and 

the  inability  of  women  to  keep  secrets 

227 

CSXVil 

How  a  hermit,  who  saw  an  apparently  innocent 
man   punished,    and    murmured    against    the 

justice  of  Providence,  was  rebuked    ... 

228 

lxxiv  OUTLINES  OF  THE  TALES. 

CXXVIII.    Of  the  fraud  committed  by  a  certain  Knight, 
and  its  discovery  and  ptu&bawat  ... 
CXXIX.    How  a   king's   eon    discovered  which  of   his 

friends  loved  him  most 
CXXX.    How  a  certain  king  had  three  knights,  of  whom 
one  succeeded  in  an  enterprise  in  which  the 
others  had  failed 
CXXXI.    Of  a  king  who  gave  to   all  whatsoever   they 

CXXXH.    How  three  physicians  got  rid  of  a  fourth,  their 

CXXXIII.     Of  the  two  greyhounds  belonging  to  a  king      ... 
CXXXIV.     How  a  certain  knight,  who  saved  a  eity  in  its 

utmost  need,  was  ungratefully  put  to  death 

by  its  inhabitants 
CXXXY.  Story  of  Lucretia  ... 
CXXXVI.    How  the  credulity  of  a  certain  thief  led  to  hia 

CXXXVII.     Story  of  a  Roman  emperor  who,  being  banished, 
mado  war  on  his  country,  but  was  induced  to 

CXXXVIU.    How  a   son  made  war  against  the  king,  hU 
father,  but  repented 
CXXXIX.     How    a    baailiBk,   which    slew   the    soldiers    of 
Alexander  the  Great,  was  killed      ... 
CXL.    How    the     Emperor     Heruclius    administered 

justice  ... 
CXLI.    How  a  serpent  benefited  a  certain  knight,  ana 

of  the  letter's  ingratitude 
CXLU.    Of  a  certain  king  who  had  a  forest  filled  with  all 
kinds  of  game,  and  how  a  traitor  tried   to 
destroy  them  with  nets  and  dogs    ... 
CXLIll.     How  a  king  made  known  unto  his  brother  why 

be  was  sad  at  a  feast 
CXLIV.    How  four  philosophers  explained  the  evii  state 
of  a  certain  kingdom 


OUTLINES   OF   THE    TALES. 

kxv 

CXLV. 

How    Socrates    discovered    why   a   curtain    road 

"" 

could  not  bo  passed  by  any  living  thing 

252 

OXLVI. 

The  answer  of  Dkulil ..Its  the  pirate  to  Alexander 

253 

CXLVII. 

How  a  certain  king  slew  his  enemies     ... 

254 

XLVIH. 

How  A  moii  was  saved  from  dejatb  by  u  dolphin 

254 

CXLIX. 

Why  the  murderer  of  Philip  committed  the  crime 

255 

CL. 

How,  in  a  certain  land,  water  waa  drawn  by  means 

of  musical  instruments 

256 

CLI. 

Of  two   knights,  one  avaricious   and   the   other 

25S 

CLH. 

How  Cleonitns  cheered  his  besieged  subjects 

25S 
259 
299 

CLIT. 

How  the  city  of  Edessa  was  safe  from  all  enemies 

CLV. 

Story  of  the  phantom  knight  nf  Wandlesbnry 

300 

CLVL 

Hdw    Ulixes    discovered    Achilles   wheu   hiding 

from  the  Greeks 

302 

CLVLt. 

Of  the  shrewdness  of  a  certain  jiorter     ... 

303 

OLVUX 

How  the  body  of  a  giant  was  found  in  a  tomb  at 

Rome 

301 

CLIX. 

How  Noah  discovered  how  to  make  wine 

305 

CLX. 

Haw   an  evil  spirit  appeared  in  the  form  of  a 

noble  lady 

30S 

CLSI. 

How,  in  a  certain  part  of  Eugland,  thirsty  hunters 

were  given  refreshment  by  a  benevolent  goblin 

307 

CLXII. 

Of  a  certain  mountain  on  which  was  a  palace  of 

demons 

308 

CI,XIII. 

How  a  scholar  obtained  a  copy  of  verses  from  the 

devil 

311 

CJLXIV. 

How  St.  Peter  saw  fivo  meu  whom  he   deemed 

mad           ...            ...  *        ...            

313 

ULXV. 

Of  three  men  that  were  fools    ... 

314 

C1.XVI. 

Of  the  game  of  chess  ... 

315 

ui.xvu. 

How  an  archer  was  deceived  by  a  nightingale 

318 

CI.XVilL 

Parable  concerning  a  sinner     ., 

319 

CLXIX. 

How  a  certain  lawgiver  induced  the  people  to 

abide  by  his  laws    ... 

820 

lxxvi  OUTLINES  OF  THE  TALES. 

TALK  PAOI 

CLXX.    How  a  gambler  played  at  dice  with  St.  Bernard  321 
CLXXI.    Story  of  the  friendship  of  the  knight  of  Egypt 

and  the  knight  of  Baldac  ...            ...            ...  322 

CLXXII.    Story  of  the  knight  Guy  of  Warwick  ...            ...  325 

CLXXm.    Allegory  of  the  fair               ...            ...            ...  333 

CLXXIV.    Of  the  ingratitude  of  a  serpent  towards  one  who 

had  benefited  it   ...            ...            ...            ...  33G 

CLXXV .    Of  the  wonderful  things  to  be  found  in  the  world  337 

CLXXVI.    Of  two  wonderful  things        ...            ...            ...  340 

CLXXVII.    Story  of  Queen  Hester,  and  of  Aman  and  Mar- 

Qocneus ...            ...            ...            ...            f..  ot& 

CLXXVIII.     Plow  a  certain  painter  instructed  a  king           ...  34:; 
CLXXIX.    Of  the  evils  arising  from  gluttony  and  drunken- 

U6dd            ...                   ...                   ...                   ...                   ...  ijtO 

GLXXX.    How  the  knight  Onulphus  saved  the  life  of  his 

master,  King  Portaticus     ...            ...            ...  347 

CLXXXJ.    How  a  lion  was  avenged  on  his  faithless  spouse  349 


\ 


l, 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


Pompey"  was  a  wise  and  powerful  king.  He  had  an  only 
daughter,  remarkable  for  her  beauty,  of  whom  he  wait 
Ktnmely  fond.  He  committed  her  to  the  custody  of  five 
wldiers ;  and  charged  them,  under  the  heaviest  penalties, 
lo  preserve  her  from  every  possible  injury.  The  soldiers 
*ereoc  guard  night  and  day  ;  and  tiefore  the  door  of  her 
bed-chamber  they  suspended  a  burning  lamp,  that  the 
approach  of  an  intruder  might  be  the  more  easily  detected. 
Anil  they  kept  a  dog,  whose  hark  was  loud  and  piercing, 
jo  rotate  them  from  sleep.  From  all  these  circumstances, 
it  would  appear  that  every  precaution  had  been  taken  : 
hwt.  unhappily,  the  bid;:  panted  for  the  pleasures  of  the 
"Odd.  As  she  was  one  day  looking  abroad,  a  certain  duke 
fwsed  by,   who  regarded  her  with   impure  and  improper 

'  Th<?  fair  reader  who  has  not  condescended  to  notict  my  pru- 
h°**tia  (and  I  hope  tbe  suspicion  is  not  treasonable ! J  may  reqnim 
|" lit:  informed  that  "(Jesta  Rohasokimi  "  supplies  a  n-ry  ithi.1i.hj rnj F'. 
Ha nf  the  contents  of  these  volumes.  The  Romans  base  tittle  to  rlo 
m  Ihii  mattKr.  and  King  Pompey  must  not  be  confounded  with  I'ompcy 
b  Gnat,  though  they  are  in. questionably  meant  for  the  same  person. 
(»eb  blunder»  are  (>erjHttaa]. 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


■ 


feelings.  Observing  her  beauty,  and  ascertaining  that  she 
was  the  reputed  heir  to  the  throne,  he  became  enamoured, 
and  made  her  many  promises  to  obtain  her  consent;  which 
she,  hoping  much  from  his  words,  gave,  and  straightway 
slew  the  dog,  put  out  the  iamp,  and  rising  by  night,  fled 
with  the  duke.  In  the  morning,  however,  inquiries  were 
set  on  foot.  Now,  thoro  was  at  that  time  in  the  king'» 
palace  *  a  champion  of  remarkable  prowess,  who  ever  did 
battle  for  justice  in  that  realm.  When  he  understood  the 
contempt  which  the  lady  liaii  exhibited  towards  her  parent, 
he  armed  himself,  and  hiistened  after  the  fugitives.  A 
battle  speedily  entmed,  in  which  the  champion  triumphed, 
and  decapitated  the  seducer  on  the  spot.  The  lady  he 
conveyed  back  to  the  palace ;  but  being  refused  admittance 
to  the  presence  of  he;-  father,  thenceforward  she  passed  her 
time  in  bitterly  bewailing  her  misdeeds.  It  happened  that 
a  wise  person  in  the  emperor's  court  heard  of  her  repentance. 
On  all  ooowions  when  his  services  were  required,  he  bad 
proved  himself  an  active  mediator  between  majesty  and  ita 
offenders  ;  and  being  now  moved  with  compassion,  he 
reconciled  her  to  her  indignant  parent,  and  betrothed  her 
tp  a  powerful  nobleman.  After  this  she  received  many 
and  diverse  gifts  from  her  father.  In  the  first  place  he 
presented  to  her  a  tunic,  which  extended  to  the  heel,  com- 
posed of  tho  finest  and  richest  woof,  having  the  following 
inscription  : — "  I  have  forgiven  thee,  see  that  thou  add  not 
to  thy  offence."  Prom  the  king  also  she  received  a  golden 
coronet,  bearing  tin;  legend,  "Thy  dignity  is  from  me." 
The  champion,  who  had  conquered  in  her  behalf,  gave  a 
ring,  on  which  was  .sculptured,  "I  have  loved  thee,  learn 
thou  to  love."  The  mediator  also  bestowed  a  ring,  inscribed 
as  follows,  "What  have  I  done?  How  much?  Why?" 
Another  ring  was  presented  by  the  king's  son  ;  and  there 
was  engraved  upon  it,  "  Thou  art  noble,  despise  not  thy 
nobility."  Her  own  brother  bestowed  a  similar  gift,  of 
which  the  motto  ran  thus  : — "  Approach  ;  fear  not — I  am 
thy  brother."  Her  husband  likewise  added  a  golden 
signet,  which  confirmed  his  wife  in  the  inheritance  of  his 

*  [Whether  the  fl 
nr  not,  it  is  iin|«'^ihli.'  t'>  distuvti 
further  on. — Ed.} 


APPLICATION. 


goods,  and  bore  this  superscription,  "  Now  thou  art  es- 
poused, Bin  no  more." 

lie  lady  received  these  various  presents,  and  kept 
them  as  long  as  she  lived.  She  succeeded  in  regaining  the 
favour  of  those  whose  affections  her  former  conduct  had 
alienated,  and  closed  her  days  in  peace.* 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  heavenly  Father,  who  hath 
drawn  away  His  children  from  the  jaws  of  the  devil  by  the 
sufferings  of  His  blessed  Son.  He  in  the  King  of  kings,  and 
Lord  of  lords.  Dm.1.  xxxii. :  "  Is  He  not  thy  Father  who 
liath  obtained  tiiee  hy  conquest,  made,  and  established 
thee?"  The  only  daughter  is  the  rational  soul,  which  is 
delivered  to  five  soldiers,  that  is,  to  the  five  senses,  to  guard  ; 
being  armed  by  virtues  received  id  baptism.  These  senses 
are  eight,  hearing,  itc,  which  have  in  charge  to  preserve 
ii  from  the  devil,  the  world,  and  the  flesh.  The  burning 
lamp  is  the  will,  subjected  in  all  things  to  the  control  of 
(iud,  and  which  in  good  works  should  shine  out  brilliantly, 
dispersing  the  gloom  of  sin.  The  barking  dog  is  conscience, 
which  has  to  struggle  against  error ;  but,  alas !  the  soul, 
desirous  of  gazing  upon  the  objects  of  this  world,  looks 
abroad  as  often  as  it  acts  contrary  to  the  divine  command  ; 
and  then  is  willingly  seduced  by  a  duke — that  is,  by  the 
infernal  ravisher.  And  thus  the  lamp  of  good  works  is 
eitinguished,  and  the  dog  of  conscience  destroyed:  and 
thus  the  soul  follows  the  devil  in  the  dark  night  of  sin. 
'i'huse  things,  when  our  champion  had  heard,  namely. 
WB — because  "  there  is  no  other  that  fights  for  us,  but 
uniy  Thou,  our  God" — instantly  He  combats  with  that 
wicked  misleader  the  devil,  gains  a  victory,  and  leads  the 
soul  to  the  palace  of  the  heavenly  King.  The  wise 
mediator  is  Christ  ;  as  the  apostle  says,  1  Tim.  ii. :  "  There 
is  one  mediator  between  God  and  man,  ihe  Man  Christ, 
Jesus."      The  son  of  the  king  is  Uhkist.     So  the  psalmist 


*  "  The  latter  piirt  of  this  ntury  it 


11  Hit  UilroihirftirYttirmnistiLri'.'i'::!. 


CE5TA   ROMANORITM. 


■ 


witnesses — "Thou  art  my  eon.  this  day  have  I  begotten 
tiiee."  Christ  is  also  our  brother.  Gen.  xxxvii. :  "  He  ie 
our  brother."  And  He  is  our  spouse,  according  to  that  of 
Hosea  ii. :  "I  will  marry  thee  in  faithfulness."  Again, 
••  Thou  shalt  be  the  spouse  of  my  blood."  By  Him,  we  are 
reconciled  to  our  heavenly  Father,  and  restored  to  peace. 
"  For  He  is  our  peace,  who  hath  made  both  one." — Ephes.  ii. 
From  Him  we  received  the  aforesaid  gifts:  first,  a  cloak 
descending  to  the  ankle — that  is,  His  most  precious  skin  ;  * 
and  said  to  be  of  delicate  texture,  because  it  was  woven 
with  stripes,  blood,  bruises,  and  other  various  instances  of 
malice.  Of  which  texture,  nothing  more  is  meant  than 
this — "1  have  forgiven  tlice."'  because  I  have  redeemed 
thee ;  "  see  that  thou  add  not  to  thy  offence."  "  Go,"  said 
our  Lord,  "  and  sin  no  more."  This  is  the  vest  of  Joseph 
— the  garment  dyed  in  the  blood  of  a  goat. — Gen.  xxxvii. 
That  same  Christ  our  King  gave  to  us  an  all-glorious 
crown  ;  that,  is,  when  lie  submitted  to  be  crowned  for  our 
sakes.  And  of  a  truth,  "  Thy  dignity  is  from  me  "—even 
from  that  crown.  John  xix. :  "  Jesus  went  forth,  bearing 
the  crown  of  thorns.''  Christ  is  our  champion,  who  gave  us 
a  ring- — that  is,  tho  hole  in  His  right  hand ;  and  we  our- 
selves may  perceive  how  faithfully  it  is  written— "I  have 
loved  thee,  learn  thou  to  love."  Bev.L:  "Christ -our  mediator 
loved  us,  and  washed  us  from  crur  sins  in  His  blood."  He 
gave  us  another  ring,  which  is  the  puncture  in  his  left 
hand,  where  we  see  written,  "What  have  I  done?  How 
much  ?  Why  ?  " — "  What,  have  I  done  ?  "  I  have  despoiled 
myself,  receiving  the  form  of  a  servant.  "How  much?" 
I  have  made  God  man.  "  Why?"  To  redeem  tho  lost. 
Concerning  these  three  —  Zaehan/  xiii. :  "  What  are  the 
wounds  in  the  middle  of  thy  hands?  And  He  answered, 
saying,  I  am  wounded  by  these  men  in  their  house,  who 
ioved  me."  Christ  is  our  brother,  and  son  of  the  eternal 
King.     He  gave  us  a  third  ring — to  wit,  the  hole  in  His 

*  Attempt*,  like  the  present,  t.<-.  strum  everything  into  an  allegory, 
arc  very  frequent  in  there  "  mystical  ami  moral  application!."  It  is 
for  Ihie  reason,  aiming  others,  tli.it  I  thought  it  rifrhi  •■■  abridge  them ; 
for  while  the  reader's  patience  «as  exliaiijtett,  hi?  feelings  wouM 
revolt  an  well   at  the  absurdity  as  ut  the.  apparent  impiety  of  tho 


right  foot ;  and  what  can  bo  understood  by  it  except, 
"Thou  art  noble,  despise  not  thy  nobility"?  In  like 
manner,  Christ  is  hut  brother-german.  And  He  gave  ns  a 
fourth  ring,  the  puncture  in  his  left  foot,  on  which  is 
written,  "  Approach  ;  fear  not — I  am  thy  brother."  Christ 
aaleoour  spouse;  He  gave  ub  a  signet,  with  which  He 
touiirnied  our  inheritance  :  that  is,  the  wound  made  in  His 
(iik*  by  the  spear,  on  account  of  the  great,  love  with  which 
He  loved  us.  And  what  can  this  signify  hut  "  Thou  art 
now  joined  to  me  through  mercy  ;  sin  no  more." 

Let  us  study,  my  beloved,  to  keep  tht-iso  gifts  uninjured, 
that  we  may  be  able  to  exclaim,  as  in  St.  Matthew,  "  Lord, 
thou  gavest  to  me  five  talents  ; "  and  thus,  unquestionably, 
»e  shall  reign  in  the  bosom  of  bliss.  That  we  may  be 
thought  worthy  the  Father,  Son,  &c. 


The  Emperor  Titus  made  a  law,  that  whosoever  provided 
not  for  his  parents  should  he  condemned  to  death.  It 
happened  that  there  were  two  brethren,  descended  from 
the  same  father.  One  of  them  had  a  son,  who  discovered 
his  uncle  in  the  greatest  indigence;  and  immediately,  in 
compliance  with  the  law,  but  in  opposition  to  the  will  of 
hk  father,  administered  to  his  wants.  Thereupon  the 
father  expelled  him  from  his  house.  Notwithstanding,  he 
■till  maintained  his  poor  uncle,  and  supplied  him  with 
every  requisite.  By  and  by,  the  uncle  became  rich  and 
the  father  indigent.  Now,  when  the  son  beheld  the 
altered  circumstances  of  his  parent,  he  liberally  supported 
him  also,  to  the  great  indignation  of  his  uncle,  who  drove 
him  from  his  house  and  said,*  "'Formerly,  when  I  was 
poor,  thou  gavest  me  support,  in  opposition  to  thy  father; 
for  which  I  constituted  thee  my  heir,  in  the  place  of  a 


I 


6  GESTA    ROMANOKUM. 

«on.  But.  an  ungrateful  son  ought  not  to  obtain  nn  in- 
heritance ;  and  rather  than  such,  we  should  adopt  a 
stranger.  Therefore,  since  thou  bast  been  ungrateful  to 
thy  father  in  maintaining  me  contrary  to  his  command, 
thou  shalt  never  possess  my  inheritance."  The  son  thus 
answered  his  uncle :  "  No  ono  can  be  punished  for 
executing  what  the  law  commands  and  compels.  Now, 
the  law  of  nature  obliges  children  to  assist  their  parents 
in  necessity,  and  especially  to  honour  them  :  therefore,  I 
cannot  justly  he  deprived  of  the  inheritance." 

APPLICATION 

My  beloved,  the  two  brothers  are  the  Son  of  God  and 
the  world,  whieli  bofli  proceed  from  one  heavenly  Father. 
The  first,  begotten  ;  the  .second,  created.  Between  them, 
from  the  beginning,  discord  arose,  and  continues  to  this 
day  ;  so  that,  lie  who  is  the  friend  of  the  one  is  an  enemy  to 
the  other.  According  to  Si.  James  iv.  :  "  Whosoever  would 
become  the  friend  of  this  world  shall  be  accounted  an 
enemy  to  God."  The  only  son  is  every  Christian,  who  is 
the  progeny  of  Christ  because  .he  is  desccuded  from  Him 
by  faith.  Therefore,  we  should  not  feed  fat  the  world 
with  pride,  avarice,  and  other  vices,  if  we  would  be  the 
children  of  God.  And  if  our  desires  are  contrary,  too 
surely  we  shall  he  excluded  from  the  family  of  Christ, 
and  lose  our  heavenly  inheritance.  If  we  maintain  and 
cherish  Christ  by  works  of  love  and  of  piety,  the  wc1 " 
indeed  will  abhor  us— but  better  is  it  to  be  at  enmity 
with  the  world  than  forego  an  inheritance  in  heaven. 


OF   JUST   JUDGMENT, 

A  certain  emperor  decreed,  that  if  any  woman  were  taken 
in  adultery,  she  should  be  east  headlong  from  a  very  high_ 
precipice.  It  chanced  that  a  woman,  convicted  of  th» 
immediately  conveyed  to  the  place  of  punish— 


OF   JUSTICE. 

mcnt,  and  thrown  down.  But  she  received  no  injury  in 
the  fall.  They  therefore  brought  her  hack  to  the  judg- 
ment-seat ;  and  when  the  judge  perceived  that  she  was 
unharmed,  ho  commanded  that  she  should  again  he  led  to 
tin:  precipice,  and  the  twntence  eilectuully  executed.  The 
woman,  however,  addressing  the  judge,  said,  "  My  Lord,  if 
vuii  command  thin,  you  will  act  contrary  to  the  law,  which 
punishes  not  twice  for  the  same  fault.  I  have  already 
lieen  cast  down  as  a  convicted  adultresB,  but  God  mira- 
culously preserved  me.  Therefore,  I  ought  not  to  be 
Kil'jcett'd  to  it  again."  The  judge  answered,  "Thou  hast 
«ell  said ;  go  in  peace  :  "  and  thus  was  the  woman  saved. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God,  who  made  a  law  that 
if  my  one  polluted  the  soul  (which  is  the  spouse  of  Christ ) 
by  the  commission  of  any  mortal  sin,  he  should  be  pre- 
cipitated from  a  high  mountain — that  is,  from  heaven  ;  ns 
Wet  our  first  parent,  Adam.  But  God,  by  the  sufferings 
of  His  Son,  hath  preserved  us.  When  man  sins,  God  does 
i(it  instantly  condemn  hun,  because  His  mercy  is  infinite  ; 
hot  •'  by  grace  we  are  saved,"  and  not  cast  headlong  into 
bell 


OF  JUSTICE. 

During  the  reign  of  Ciesar  a  law  was  enacted,  that  if  a 
">*n  maltreated  a  woman,  and  overcame  her  by  violence, 
it  should  remain  with  the  aggrieved  party,  whether  the 
ptreon  bo  offending  should  he  put  to  death,  or  married  to 
tar,  without  a  portion.  Now,  it  fell  out  that  a  certain 
fellow  violated  two  women  upon  the  same  night  ;  the  one 
of  whom  sought  to  put  him  to  death,  and  the  other  to  be 
■Harried  to  him.  The  violator  was  apprehended  and 
brought  before  the  judge,  to  answer  respecting  the  two 
*'«men,  according  to  law.    The  first  woman  insisting  upon 


8  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

her  right,  desired  his  death ;  while  the  second  claimed 
him  for  her  husband.  The  first  woman  said,  "  It  cannot 
be  denied  that  the  law  ordains  that  I  should  obtain  my 
wish."  The  other  replied,  "  In  like  manner  the  law  raises 
its  voice  for  me.  But  because  my  demand  is  of  less 
importance,  and  more  charitable,  I  doubt  not  but  that 
sentence  will  he  given  in  my  favour."  Both  women  com- 
plained, and  both  required  the  enforcement  of  the  law, 
When  either  side  had  been  heard,  the  judge  ordered  that 
the  second  woman  should  obtain,  the  man  for  her  husband. 
And  60  it  was  done. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor,  who  framed  the  law,  is  our 
Lord  Jesua  Christ.  The  violator,  any  sinner,  who  violates 
two  females,  that  is.  Justice  and  Mercy,  which  are  both 
the  daughters  of  God.  The  violator  is  brought  before  the 
Judge,  when  the  soul  separates  from  the  body.  The  first 
woman,  that  is,  Justice,  alleges  against  the  sinner  that  by 
law  he  is  subject  to  eternal  death :  but  the  other,  that  is, 
Divine  Mercy,  alleges  that  by  contrition  and  confessioa 
he  may  be  saved.     Therefore,  let  us  study  to  please  God. 


OF   FIDELITY. 

The  subject  of  a  certain  king  fell  into  the  hands  of  pirates, 
and  wrote  to  his  father  for  ransom.  But  the  father  would- 
not  redeem  him;  so  the  youth  wasted  away  in  prison- 
Now,  he  who  detained  him  in  chains  had  a  daughter  ofT" 
great  beauty  and  virtue.  She  was  at  this  time  in  her- 
twentieth  year,  and  frequently  visited  the  young  mau. 
with  the  hope  o I  alleviating  his  griefs.  But  he  was  too» 
disconsolate  to  hearken.  It  one  day  fell  out  that,  wb.il» 
the  damsel  was  with  him,  the  youth  said  to  her,  "  Oh,  thaC- 
you  would  try  to  set  me  free,  kind  maiden  !  "    She  replied.» 


OF    FIDELITY.  9 

"But  how  am  I  to  effect  it?  Thy  father,  thine  own 
lather,  will  not  ransom  thee ;  on  what  ground  then  should 
L  a  Btranger,  attempt  it?  And  suppose  that  I  were 
induced  to  do  so,  I  should  incur  the  wrath  of  my  parent, 
because  thino  denies  the  price  of  thy  redemption.  Never- 
theless, on  one  condition  thou  «halt  be  liberated."  "  Kind 
damsel."  returned  he.  "  impose  what  thou  wilt ;  so  that  it 
be  possible,  I  will  accomplish  it."  "  Promise,  then,"  said 
she,  "to  marry  me,  whenever  an  opportunity  may  occur." 
"  I  promise,"  said  the  youth,  joyfully.  "  and  plight  thee  a 
faith  that  shall  never  be  broken."  The  girl  Ktmightway 
set  him  free  from  his  bonds,  without  her  father's  know- 
ledge, and  fled  with  him  to  his  own  country.  When  they 
arrived,  the  father  of  the  youth  welcomed  him.  and  said, 
"  Son,  I  am  overjoyed  at  thy  return ;  but  who  is  the  lady 
under  thy  escort?"  He  replied,  "It  is  the  daughter  of  a 
&g,  to  whom  I  am  betrothed."  The  father  returned, 
"On  pain  of  losing  thy  inheritance.  I  charge  thee,  marry 
W  not."  "  My  father,"  exclaimed  the  youth,  "  what  hast 
thon  said?  My  obligations  to  her  are  greater  than  they 
Me  to  you;  for  when  imprisoned  and  tbt  tared  by  my 
enemy,  I  implored  you  to  ransom  me ;  but  you  would  not. 
Sow,  she  not  only  released  me  from  prison,  but  front 
deadly  peril — and,  therefore,  I  am  resolved  to  marry  her." 
The  father  answered,  "  Son,  I  tell  thee  that  thou  canst 
Dotconnde  in  her,  and  consequently  ought  not  to  espouse 
her.  She  deceived  her  own  father,  when  she  liberated 
"iee  from  prison  ;  for  this  did  her  father  lose  the  price  of 
thy  ransom.  Therefore,  I  am  of  opinion  that  thou  canst 
lot  confide  in  her,  and  consequently  might  not  to  espouse 
her.  Besides,  there  is  another  reason.  It  is  true  she 
"berated  thee,  but  it  was  for  the  gratification  of  her 
passions,  and  in  order  to  oblige  thee  to  marry  her.  And, 
•moe  an  unworthy  passion  was  the  source  of  thy  liberty. 
I  think  that  she  ought  not  to  be  thy  wife."  When  the 
kdy  heard  snch  reasons  assigned,  she  answered,  "  To  your 
firet  objection,  that  I  deceived  my  own  parent,  I  reply 
'hit  it  is  not  true.  He  deceives  who  takes  away  or 
diminishes  a  certain  good.  But  my  father  is  so  rich  that 
he  needs  not  any  addition.  "When,  therefore,  I  had 
maturely   weighed    this  matter,    I   procured   the   young 


10  GESTA    ROMANORUM. 

man's  freedom.  And  if  my  father  had  received  a  r: 
for  hire,  he  had  hcen  hut  little  richer;  while  you  would 
have  been  utterly  impoverished.  Now,  in  acting  thus, 
1  have  served  you,  who  refused  the  Tansom,  and  have  done 
no  injury  to  my  parent.  As  for  your  last  objection,  that 
an  unworthy  passion  urged  me  to  do  this,  I  assert  that  it 
is  false.  Feelings  of  such  a  nature  arise  either  from  great 
personal  beauty,  or  from  wealth,  or  honours ;  or  finally, 
from  a  robust  appearance.  None  of  which  qualities  your 
son  possessed.  For  imprisonment  had  destroyed  his 
beauty  ;  and  he  had  not  sufficient  wealth  even  to  effect  his 
liberation;  while  much  anxiety  had  worn  away  his 
strength,  and  left  him  emaciated  and  sickly.  Therefore, 
compassion  rather  persuaded  me  to  free  him."  When  thpi 
father  had  heard  this,  he  could  object  nothing  more.  So 
his  son  married  the  lady  with  very  great  pomp,  aud  closed 
his  life  in  peace.* 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  son  captured  by  piratea  is  the  whole 
human  race,  led  liy  the  sin  of  our  first  parent  into  the  prison 
of  the  devil — that   is,   into  his   power.      The   father   who 

•  The  deliverance  of  the  ynuth  liy  the  Imiy  rese7nliles  the  236th 
Night  nf  the  Arabian  Talt'H.— Tlie  <jV*-<  i.-  mention*  -<1  !>y  Wurton  ob  the 
temud  tale  in  hi.-  analysis  .  anil  two  <>r  three  nthur  variations  occur. 
What  edition  lie  followed  I  know  not.  1  have  examined  five.  The 
sentiment  conn.' veil  !>y  this  tale  (p.  '■<),  that  she  who  has  deceived 
her    father   will   dnvivo    her   husband,   is   thus  expressed   by  Shak- 

"  Look  tt>  her.  Munr  ;  have  a  (juick  eye  to  Bee; 
like  has  deceii-i.il  h:-.r  I'ath-r,  and  mail  lltee." 

Othello,  Act  i.  Sc.  3. 
In  nn  18mo  edition  of  the  Gebta  Kohanouum,  published  at 
Iieyden,  155.1,  there  in  preiisui  to  tin1  tVnirtli  tale.  by  way  of  argn- 
ment,  the  following  remarkable  passage :  ".Inslilia  nempe  et  miBeri- 
cordia  Deorimi  m.ni:'»:  esl  :  ml  <;«»«  mm  /-'"niaiH  ■■xjiediliur  rl  propria* 
accedcre.  qaam  his  tlwihtis."  This  is  HhriiUij  w  bal  Sliakapcate  umliei 
l'ortia  observe  in  the  "  Merchant  of  Venice  "  : — 

"  But  Mercy  in  above  tbia  sccptered  away, 

It  it  an  allrHmte  of  God  Himttlf; 

And  earihiij  )«,ir<r  ,Uh  thru  .tlime  liked  (loeTl, 

Whin  Warm  seatoiu  just  ice.  "—Act  IV.  8c,  I. 


OP  FOLLOWING   REASON. 


11 


would  not  redeem  him  is  the  world,  which  aids  not  man's 
escape  from  the  evil  one,  but  rather  loves  to  detain  him  in 
iliruldum.  The  daughter  who  visited  him  in  prison  is  the 
Divinity  of  Christ  united  to  the  soul;  who  sympathized 
■tfith  the  human  species — and  who,  after  His  passion,  de- 
scended into  hell  and  freed  us  from  the  chains  of  the  devil. 
But  the  celestial  Father  had  no  occasion  for  wealth, 
because  He  is  infinitely  rich  and  good.  Therefore  Christ, 
moved  with  compassion,  came  down  from  heaven  to  visit 
us,  and  took  upon  Himself  our  form,  and  required  no  more 
than  to  be  united  in  the  closest  bonds  with  man.  So 
ttoteo  ii. :  "  1  will  marry  her  to  me  in  faithfulness."  But 
our  father,  the  world,  whom  many  obey,  ever  murmurs  and 
objects  to  this.  *'  If  thou  unitest  thyself  to  God,  thou 
shalt  lose  my  inheritance  "—that  is,  the  inheritance  of 
this  world ;  because  it  is  "  impossible  to  serve  God  and 
mammon."  Matt.  vi. :  "  He  who  shall  leave  father,  or 
mother,  or  wife,  or  country  for  my  sake,  he  shall  receive 
an  hundredfold,  and  possess  everlasting  life."  Which  may 
Jwus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  vouchsafe  to  be- 
•tow  upon  us ;  who  with  the  Father,  and  the  Holy  Gbo*t, 
liveth  and  reigueth  for  ever  and  ever.     Amen. 


OF  FOLLOWING   BEASOX. 

A  cehtain  emperor,  no  less  tyrannical  than  powerful, 
«pnused  a  very  beautiful  girl,  the  daughter  of  a.  Icing. 
After  the  ceremony  was.  concluded,  each  solemnly  vow<*l 
that  the  death  of  the  one  should  be  followed  by  the  volun* 
•ry  destruction  of  the  other.  It  happened  once  that  the 
•Mperor  went  into  a  far  country,  and  continued  there» 
wngtime.  Being  desirous  to  prove  the  fidelity  of  his  wife, 
hi- directed  a  messenger  to  inform  her  that  he  was  dead, 
When  this  intelligence  was  communicated,  she  remembered 
the  «th  which  had  been  administered,  and  precipitated 
omelf  from  a  lofty  mountain,  with  an  intention  10  die, 
•hit  she  received  little  injury,  and  in  a  short  spaee  was 


12  GESTA   EOMASOEDM. 

restored  to  health.  Then  once  again  she  desired  to  throw 
herself  from  the  mountain,  and  bo  die.  Her  father  under- 
standing this,  forbade  obedience  to  the  mandate  and  oath 
prescribed  by  her  hnsband.  Still,  as  she  seemed  anxious 
to  comply  with  them,  the  father  said,  "  Since  you  refuse 
assent  to  my  request,  depart  at  once  from  my  presence." 
But  she  replied.  "  I  will  ni>t  do  that ;  and  I  will  prove,  by 
good  reasons,  my  right  to  remain.  When  an  oath  is  sworn, 
ought  it  not  to  be  faithfully  maintained  ?  I  hare  sworn  to 
my  husband  that  I  would  destroy  myself,  if  I  survived 
him  :  therefore,  it  is  no  crime  to  fulfil  my  vow,  and  I  ought 
not  to  he  driven  from  your  palace.  Moreover,  no  one 
should  be  punished  for  that  which  is  commendable.  Now, 
since  man  and  woman  are  one  flesh,  according  to  the  laws 
of  God,  it  is  commendable  for  a  wife  to  perish  with  her 
husband.  On  which  account,  there  was  a  law  in  India, 
that  a  wife  after  the  decease  of  her  lord  should  burn  her- 
self, as  evidence  of  her  grief  and  love  ;  or  else  be  deposited 
alive  in  his  sepulchre.  And  therefore  I  think  that  I  do  no 
wrong  to  kill  myself  for  the  love  of  my  husband."  The 
father  answered,  "  When  you  said  that  you  were  bound  by 
an  oath  to  act  thus,  you  Bhould  have  remembered  that 
such  an  obligation  is  not  binding,  because  its  end  is 
deprivation  of  life.  An  oath  should  always  be  consistent 
with  reason ;  and  therefore  yours  being  unreasonable  is 
of  no  force.  As  for  the  other  argument,  that  it  is  praise- 
worthy in  a  wife  to  die  with  her  husband,  it  avails  you 
not.  For  although  they  are  one  in  the  body,  united  by 
carnal  affections,  yet  they  an-  two  persons  in  soul,  and  are 
really  and  substantially  different.  .Therefore,  neither  does 
this  afford  any  resource."  When  the  lady  heard  these  words, 
she  could  argue  no  further,  but  complied  with  the  request, 
of  her  parent.  She  refrained  from  soliciting  destruction; 
hut  though  apprized  of  her  husband's  existence  soon  after, 
she  would  not  return  to  him. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  the  devil.     The  girl  is  the 

nl  created  in  the  likeness  of  God.  but  by  sin  espoused  to 

the  ovil  one,     WhcrcA'ore,  in  the  commission  of  sin,  then» 


0F  THE  ENVy  OF  BAD  MEN  TOWARDS  THE  GOOD.      13 

is  -L  covenant  established,  namely,  that  if  a  man  die  in  s 
ind  in  remote  parts — that  is,  in  hell — it  is  previously 
«greed  upon  by  his  own  pride,  that  tho  Burning  soul  should 
rastitfcelf  from  u  high  mountain — that  ie,  from  heaven  down 
to  hell :  and  thus  it  wan,  before  the  advent  of  our  Saviour. 
But  He,  by  His  passion,  reinstated  it  in  health.  Notwith- 
standing, the  soul  Btill  desires  to  precipitate  itself,  as  often 
«it  acts  against  tho  divine  command.  But  God,  who  is 
onr  Father,  would  not  willingly  that  we  should  fall,  but 
hid  rather,  by  contrition  and  confession,  receive  us  wholly 
M  Himself,  and  bind  us  so  firmly  to  Him,  that  with  Hiu 
we  might  enjoy  everlasting  life. 


OF  THE    ENVY    OF    BAD   MEN    TOWARDS  THE   OOOD. 

Wiies  Diocletian  was  emperor,  there  was  a  certain  noble 
««Idier  who  had  two  sons,  whom  he  entirely  and  truly 
loved.  The  younger  of  them  married  a  harlot,  without 
the  knowledge  of  his  father,  and  the  infamy  of  this  pro- 
wling overwhelmed  him  with  the  greatest  grief.  He 
tttttly  banished  him  from  his  presence,  and  left  hiir.  to 
tk  rebukes  of  conscience,  and  to  the  agonies  of  approach- 
ing want.  A  beautiful  child  was  born  to  him,  and  he  was 
reduced  to  great  distress.  In  this  situation  he  despatched 
*  messenger  to  his  parent,  to  supplicate  relief ;  and  when 
hi»  wretchedness  was  made  known,  it  moved  him  to  com- 
p-issiim,  and  he  torsive  him  all.  After  their  reeunciliatiuii. 
Hie  son  entrusted  to  his  father's  protection  the  child  that 
the  harlot  bore  Mm,  and  it  was  taken  to  his  house  and 
sWted  as  his  own.  But  when  the  elder  brother  heard 
*!wt  had  happened,  he  was  exceedingly  wroth,  and  said 
if  las  father,  "  Thou  art  mad,  and  I  will  prove  it  by  satis- 
factory  reasons.  He  is  mad  who  fosters  and  adopts  a  son 
ty  whom  he  has  been  grievously  wronged.  Now,  my 
■"other,  whose  son  that  child  is.  did  you  great  injury  when 
^spoused  a  harlot  contrary  to  your  will.  Therefore,  I 
*!"  persuaded  that  you  are  inad — for  you  both  protect  the 


1*  (JEST  A    KOMANORUM. 

child,  and  are  at  peace  with  him."  Here  the  father  an- 
swered, "  Son,  I  am  reconciled  to  thy  brother,  in  conse- 
quence of  his  own  contrition,  and  the  urgent  entreaties  of 
his  friends.  Therefore,  it  becomes  me  to  love  my  recovered 
son  more  than  you ;  because  you  have  often  offended  me, 
but  never  sought  a  reconciliation  :  and  since  you  have  not 
humbly  acknowledged  your  transgressions,  yon  are  more 
ungrateful  than  your  brother  has  been,  whom  yon  would 
have  me  banish  from  ray  house.  You  ought  rather  to 
rejoice  that  he  is  reconciled  to  me.  But  because  you  have 
exhibited  so  much  ingratitude,  you  shall  not  receive  the 
inheritance  designed  for  you.  It  shall  be  given  to  your 
brother."     And  so  it  was  done." 


APPLICATION. 

My    beloved,   by  this  father  we   are    to   understand 

our  heavenly  Father ;  by  the  two  sons,  the  angelic  and 
human  nature.  The  human  nature  was  united  with  a> 
harlot — that  is,  with  iniquity,  when  it  ate  the  fatal  apple, 
contrary  to  the  divine  injunction.  Wherefore  it  was 
banished  by  the  heavenly  Father.  The  son  of  the  harlot 
is  mankind,  which  had  perished  in  its  perverseness  but  for 
the  paternal  regard.  And  it  is  diwrik-d  as  sickly,  because 
being  the  fruit  of  sin,  it  is  placed  in  a  valley  of  tears. 
As  in  Gen.  iii. ;  "  By  the  sweat  of  thy  brow  shall  thou 
eat  bread."  But  he,  by  the  passion  of  Christ,  in  reconciled 
to  God  the  Father,  and  fully  established  by  the  good 
offices  and  prayers  of  holy  men,  who  daily  pour  forth  their 
petitions  to  Heaven,  for  all  the  world.  So  the  Psalmist : 
'•  They  ask  that  which  they  desire."  But  the  other 
brother,  namely,  the  devil  (who  is  the  father  of  ingrati- 
tude), continually  attacks  us,  and  murmurs  at  our  re- 
conciliation ;  alleging  that  we  ought  not  to  obtain  our 
heavenly  inheritance  because  of  original  sin.  But  doubt- 
less, if  we  live  a  holy  and  pure  life  in  this  world,  his 
allegations  will  nothing  avail ;  nay,  we  shall  obtain  his 
portion — that  is,  the  place  which  he  has  lost  in  heaven. 

ce,  ends  like  the 


OF    FALSE    ALLEGATIONS. 


OF    FALSE    ALLEGATIONS. 


the  Emperor  Leo  reigned,  hie  chief  pleasure  eon- 
in  seeing  beautiful  women.  Wherefore  he  canned 
three  images  to  be  made,  to  which  ho  dedicated  a  stately 
temple,  and  commanded  all  his  subjects  to  worship  them. 
The  first  image  stretched  out  its  hand  over  the  people, 
and  upon  one  of  its  fingers  was  placed  a  gulden  ring  bear- 
ing the  following  device :  "  My  jimjer  if  yiier-imt ;  behold 
Ai»  ring."  The  second  image  had  a  golden  beard,  arid  on 
its  lirow  was  written,  "  I  have  a  beard:  if  any  one  be  beurd- 
fcn,  let  him  come  to  me,  and  I  will  give  him  one."  The  third 
imago  had  a  golden  cloak  and  purple  tunic,  and  on  its 
hreast  appeared  these  words,  in  large  gol<leri  characters, 
"I fear  no  one.'''  These  three  images  were  fabricated  of 
stuns.  Now,  when  they  bad  been  erueted  ui-cording  to  the 
command  of  the  emperor,  he  ordained  that  whosoever 
'•'iiiveyed  away  either  the  ring,  or  golden  beard,  or  cloak, 
should  he  doomed  to  the  most  disgraceful  death.  It  bo 
'iiim-ul  tliat  a  certain  fellow  entering  the  temple,  per- 
ceived the  ring  upon  the  finger  of  the  first  image,  which 
lie  immediately  drew  off.  He  then  went  to  the  second, 
isA  bjok  away  the  golden  beard.  Last  of  all,  he  came  to 
lie  third  image,  and  when  he  had  removed  the  cloak  he 
departed  from  the  temple.  The  people,  seeing  their 
images  despoiled,  presently  communicated  the  robbery  to 
to  emperor.  The  transgressor  was  summoned  before 
him,  and  charged  with  pilfering  from  the  images,  con- 
trary to  the  edict.  But  he  replied,  "  My  Lord,  suffer  me 
to  apeak.  When  I  -entered  the  temple,  the  first  image 
«tended  towards  me  its  finger  with  the  golden  ring—  as 
'f  it  had  said,  '  Here,  take  the  ring.'  Yet,  not  merely 
Wsuse  the  finger  was  held  forth  to  me,  would  I  have 
"Wed  it;  but,  by  and  by,  I  read  the  superscription, 
"tell  said,  'My  finger  is  yenerous— take  the  ring.'  At 
™ce  I  understood  that  it  was  the  statue's  pleasure  to 
'""tow  it  upon  me,  and  therefore  I  took  it.  Afterwards, 
'  '1'proacbed  the   second   image  with  the   golden   beard  ; 


16  GESTA    ROMANORUM. 

Lnd  I  communed  with  ray  own  heart,  and  said,  '  The 
author  of  this  statue  never  had  such  a  beard,  for  I  have 
in  him  repeatedly ;  and  the  creature  ought,  beyond 
question,  to  be  inferior  to  the  Creator,  Therefore,  it 
is  fitting  and  necessary  to  take  away  the  beard.'  But 
although  he  offered  not  the  smallest  opposition,  yet  I  was 
unwilling  to  carry  it  off,  until  I  distinctly  perceived,  '  I 
have  a  beard :  if  any  one  be  beardless,  let  him  come  to  me, 
and  I  will  give  him  one.'  I  am  beardless,  as  your  Majesty 
may  see,  and  therefore,  fur  two  especial  reasons,  took 
away  the  beard.  The  first  was,  that  he  should  look  more 
like  his  author,  and  not  grow  too  proud  of  his  golden 
beard.  Secondly,  that  by  these  means  I  might  protect 
my  own  bald  pate.  Again,  I  came  to  the  third  image, 
which  lx>re  a  golden  cloak.  I  took  away  the  cloak,  be- 
cause, being  of  metal,  in  the  winter  time  it  is  extremely 
cold  ;  and  the  image  itself  is  made  of  stone.  Now,  stone 
is  naturally  cold  ;  and  if  it  had  retained  the  golden  cloak 
it  would  have  been  adding  ei>M  to  cold,  which  were  a  bad 
thing  for  the  image.  Also,  if  it  had  possessed  this  cloak 
in  summer,  it  would  have  proved  too  heavy  and  warm  for 
the  season.  However,  I  should  not  have  borne  it  away 
even  for  those  isuiises,  if  there  had  not  been  written  upon 
the  breast.  '  I  fear  nobody.'  For  T  discovered  in  that 
vaunt  such  intolerable  umiganco,  that  I  to 'k  away  the 
cloak,  merely  to  humble  it."  "  Fair  sir,"  replied  the 
emperor,  "  does  not  the  law  say  expressly  that  the  images 
shall  not  be  robbed,  nor  the  ornaments  upon  them  mo- 
lested on  any  pretence?  You  have  impudently  taken 
away  that  which  did  not  belong  to  you,  and  therefore  I 
determine  that  you  he  instantly  suspended  on  a  gallows." 
And  so  it  was  done.  (1) 


My  beloved,  that  emperor  is  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
The  three  images  are  three  sorts  of  men,  in  whom  God 
takes  pleasure — as  it  is  written,  "  Thy  delight  is  in  the 
sons  of  men."  If  we  live  piously  and  uprightly,  God  will 
remain  with  ns.  By  the  first  image  with  extended  hand, 
we  nuiy  conceive  the  poor  and  simple  of  this  world;  who. 


OF   FALSE    ALLEGATIONS. 


17 


if  tbpj- have  business  in  the  halls  of  princeB  and  noblemen, 
«ill  prevail  but  little  unless  tlie  hand  is  put  forth  to  pre- 
sunt  a  gift.  Gifts  blind  the  eyes  of  a  judge.  Iiut  if  it 
should  be  asked  of  such  a  one,  or  of  his  servants,  "  Why 
Snout  thou  the  poor?"  it  is  instantly  replied,  "Can  I 


no!  receive  with  a  good  conscience  what  is  voluntarily 
presented?  If  I  took  not  the  offering,  people  would  say 
Iwns besotted;  and  therefore,  to  curb  their  tongues,  I  take 
ft."  By  the  second  imago  we  are  to  understand  the  rich 
of  the  world,  who,  by  the  grace  of  God,  are  exalted  to 
groat  wealth.  So  the  Psalmist :  "  Thou  raisest  the  poor 
iiut  y f  the  mire,  ainl  they  are  aou-uscd  bofVu'o  their  rival..." 
(i'jnie  wretched  man  hath  a  golden  board — that  is,  greater 
ritliea  than  his  father  had  ;  and  straightway  we  oppress 
him, either  with  a  legal  pretext  or  without.  A  just  man  is 
nTerborne  and  robbed ;  for  they  say,  "  We  are  bald,"  that 
ib,  we  are  poor  ;  and  it  is  fitting  that  he  divide  his  riches 
with  us :  nay,  he  is  often  murdered  for  his  property. 
"Covetonsness,"  says  St.  Paul  to  Timothy,  "in  the  root 
of  all  evil."  By  the  third  image  with  the  golden  cloak, 
we  are  to  understand  men  raised  tu  groat  dignities.  Such 
are  the  prelates  and  princes  of  the  earth,  who  are  ap- 
pointed to  preserve  the  law,  to  cultivate  virtue,  and  to  root 
™t  vice.  Wherefore  evil-doers,  who  refuse  to  submit  to 
necessary  discipline,  lift  themselves  up,  and  conspire 
against  their  ecclesiastical  governors  and  superiors,  saying. 
"  We  will  not  have  him  to  reign  over  us." — St,  Luke.  The 
■lews  seeing  Christ  performing  miracles,  and  proving  that 
tncy  had  sinned  against  the  law,  immediately  contrive 
bis  death.  But  these  conspirators,  and  the  like  to  them, 
fball  die  the  death.  Therefore,  let  us  diligently  study 
to  correct  what  is  amiss  in  this  life  present,  that  we 
»»y,  Ac. 

[Fwrn  hence  the  morale  have-  been  abridged,  and  merely  the  chief 
ttads  of  them  given.] 


0E3TA   BOSLAXGRVM. 


OF    DEPRAVITT   CONQUERED   BY    MILDNESS. 

Alexander  was  a  renowned  and  prudent  emperor.  He 
married  the  daughter  of  the  King  of  Syria,  and  had  by 
her  a  beautiful  eon.  The  boy  grew,  but  coming  to  man's 
estate,  be  conspired  against  his  father,  and  continually 
sought  his  death.  This  conduct  surprised  the  emperor, 
and  conversing  with  the  empress,  he  said,  "  Fair  wife, 
tell  roe,  I  pray  thee,  without  reserve,  hast  thou  ever  for- 
saken me  for  another  ?  " — ''  My  Lord."  answered  his  wife, 
"what  is  the  purport  of  your  question?" — "Your  son," 
Baid  he,  "  seeks  ray  life.  It  amazes  me ;  and  if  be  were 
mine  he  could  not  do  it."—"  Heaven  can  witness,"  re- 
turned the  lady,  "  that  I  am  innocent.  He  is  truly  your 
son,  but  to  what  end  he  pursues  your  destruction,  I  cannot 
sumiise."  The  emperor,  satisfied  on  this  point,  spolfe  to 
his  son  with  the  utmost  mildness.  "  My  dear  son,"  said 
he,  "  I  am  your  father;  by  my  means  you  came  into  the 
world,  and  will  succeed  me  on  the  throne.  Why  then  do 
you  desire  my  death?  I  have  ever  loved  and  cared  for 
you,  and  my  possessions  are  not  less  yours  than  mine, 
(.'ease.  I  conjure  you,  from  such  an  iniquitous  pursuit ;  and 
curtail  not  the  few  brief  hours  that  are  assigned  me." 
Nevertheless  the  son  disregarded  Iris  father's  entreaties, 
and  every  succeeding  day  discovered  fresh  proofs  of  a  hard 
and  depraved  heart ;  sometimes  endeavouring  to  slay  him 
in  public,  and  sometimes  resorting  to  secret  assassination. 
When  the  father  became  aware  of  this,  he  retired  into  a 
very  secluded  apartment,  and  took  with  him  his  son. 
Presenting  a  naked  sword,  he  said,  "  Take  this  weapon, 
and  now  hesitate  not  to  put  a  speedy  end  to  the  existence 
of  thy  parent ;  for  it  will  be  esteemed  less  shameful  to  be 
slain  by  my  own  son.  quietly  and  in  secret,  than  to  be 
exposed  to  the  uproar  and  observation  of  the  people." 
The  son,  struck  with  the  enormity  of  what  he  purposed, 
cast  aside  the  extended  sword,  and  falling  upon  his  knees, 
wept  aloud.  "  Oh,  my  father,"  said  he,  "  I  have  done  theo 
wrong — open    and   noterious   wrong,  and    am    no   mora 


OF  DEPRAVITY  CONQUERED   BT   MILDNESS. 

worthy  to  be  called  thy  boh.  Yet  forgive  me,  dearest 
lather,  anil  once  again  restore  me  to  thy  forfeited  love. 
From  henceforth  1  will  be  indeed  thy  son,  and  Id  all 
tliiiiirs  execute  thy  pleasure."  When  the  overjoyed  parent 
heard  this,  he  fell  upon  hie  neck,  and  kissed  him.  "Oh, 
my  Moved  son,  be  faithful  and  affectionate,  and  thou 
shall  find  a  fond  arid  indulgent  father."  He  then  clothed 
him  in  gorgeous  apparel,  and  brought  him  to  the  banquet- 
iniv-i-liiiiuber.  where  he  was  sumptui'iitly  fimwt.ed  with  all 
'■  ■  Jii'iili.'ii  iif  his  empire.  The  emperor  lived  a  short  time 
after  this,  and  finished  hie  career  in  peace. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Son  iif  God.  He  who  seekB  the  life  of  his  father  is  any 
W  Christian  who  is  made  a  legitimate  child  of  God,  by 
the  virtues  of  baptism.  The  mother  of  the  boy  is  the 
h'i!y  Church,  through  which  our  baptismal  vows  are 
received;  and  through  which  also  the  perverse  sinner, 
removed  from  God  by  manifold  offences,  seeks  the  death 
of  Christ,  who  is  Himself  the  father,  as  appears  from  De.ut. 
«xii. :  "  Is  He  not  thy  father,"  Ac.  Therefore  the 
Christian  attempts  to  destroy  Christ,  as  often  as  he 
departs  from  the  law  of  God.  Again,  Christ  leads  us  into 
the  desert  of  this  world,  and  there,  not  only  offers  His 
breast  to  the  drawn  sword — but  has  actually  died  for  our 
Wherefore,  remembering  His  love,  and  the  sources 
)wn  security,  we  ought  to  resist  sin,  and  serve  Him 
lly.  The  father  delivered  to  his  son  the  instrument 
ith:  so  God  gives  to  you  a  sword — that  is,  free  will, 
to  receive  His  grace  and  love,  or  to  reject  them.  Do 
therefore  act  as  the  son  did :  east  from  thee  the  sword 
if  iniquity  and  malice. 


GESTA    ROJfASOMJM. 


OF  THE    MANAGEMENT   OF   THE    SOUL. 

Tke  Emperor  Vespasian  lived  a  long  time  without 
children;  but  :it  hist,  hy  the  counsel  iif  certain  wise  men, 
he  espoused  ii  beautiful  girl,  brought  to  him  from  a  distant 
country.  Re  afterwards  travelled  with  her  into  foreign 
htrirls,  ami  tlii  n:  heraine  father  of  a  son.  In  the  course  of 
time,  he  wished  to  revisit  his  own  kingdom  ;  hut  his  wile 
obstinately  refused  to  comply,  and  said,  "  If  you  leave  me, 
I  will  kill  myself."  The  emperor,  therefore,  in  this 
dilemma,  constructed  two  rings  ;  and  upon  the  jewels  with 
which  they  were  richly  ornamented,  he  sculptured  images 
possessing  very  singular  virtues.  One  bore  an  effigy  of 
Memory;  and  the  other  an  cfiigy  of  Oblivion.  They  were 
phi.ed  upon  the  apex  of  each  ring;  and  that  which 
r-  |ipstiiti:il  ohliviou  he  bestowed  upon  his  wife.  The 
other  he  retained  himself;  and  as  their  love  had  been, 
such  was  the  power  of  the  rings.  The  wife  presently 
forgot  her  husband,  and  the  husband  cared  but  little  for 
the  memory  of  his  wife.  Seeing,  rhercWe.  that  his  object 
was  achieved,  lie  de-parted  joyfully  to  his  own  dominions, 
and  never  afterwards  returned  to  the  lady.  So  he  ended 
his  days  in  peace. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  hy  the  emperor  understand  the  human 
soul,  which  ought  to  return  to  its  own  country— that  is, 
to  heaven,  hy  which  path  alone  it  can  arrive  at  security. 
Therefore  the  1'salmist  isays — "  Save  me,  0  God,"  &c. 
The  wife  is  our  body,  which  holds  the  soul  ip  sensual 
delights,  that  encumber  and  liar  its  passage  to  that  eternal 
life,  where  the  empire  and  hope  of  the  soul  is.  And  why 
does  it  so  impede  it  V  Because  the  flesh  rebels  against  the 
spirit,  and  the  spirit  wars  against  the  flesh.  Do  ye, 
therefore,  as  the  emperor  did  ;  make  two  rings — the  rings 
of  memory  and  forgetfulness,  which  aTe  prayer  and  fast- 
for   both  are   offective.     In   most  countries,  a  ring 


OF   THE   POISON    OF   SIS.  21 

spun  the  woman's  finger  is  a  token  of  her  marriage ;  anil 
«lien  ii  man  resigns  himself  to  prayer  and  fasting,  it  is 
evidence  of  his  being  the  bride  of  Christ.  Prayer  is  the. 
ring  of  memory,  for  the  apostle  enjoins  us  to  "  pray  with- 
"'it  ceasing."  Man.  therefore,  makes  use  of  periodic*! 
Jiiyer,  tliat  God  may  remember  his  desires;  while  angels 

fl wives  present  and  aid  the  petition,  as  we  read  in  the 

Bunk  of  Tobit.  Fasting  may  be  tailed  the  ring  pi  ..i. 
avian,  because  it  withdraws  from  and  forgets  the  entice- 
ments uf  the  flesh,  that  there  may  be  no  obstruction  in  its 
pogresa  to  God.  Let  us  then  study  to  preserve  theso 
rings  and  merit  everlasting  life. 


OF  THE  POISON   OF  SIN. 

Alexander  was  a  prince  of  great  power,  and  a  disciple  of 
Aristotle,  who  instructed  him  in  every  branch  of  learning. 
''be  Queen  of  the  North  having  heard  of  his  proficiency, 
Bunrished  her  daughter  from  the  cradle  upon  a  certain 
kind  of  deadly  poison ;  and  when  she  grew  up,  she  wui 
(Sundered  so  beautiful,  tliat  the  sight  other  alone  affected 
many  with  madness.  The  queen  sent  her  to  Alexander 
to  espouse.  He  had  no  sooner  beheld  her,  than  he  became 
Hdufry  enamoured,  and  with  much  eagerness  desired  to 
possess  her;  but  Aristotle  observing  his  weakness,  pail-  - 
"  Do  not  touch  her,  for  if  you  do,  you  will  certainly  perish. 
Gk  lias  been  nurtured  upon  the  most  deleterious  food, 
tlkh  I  will  prove  to  you  immediately.  Here  is  a  male- 
hotor,  who  is  already  condemned  to  death.  He  shall  be 
united  (o  her,  and  you  will  soon  see  the  truth  of  what  I 
ulrnnce."  Accordingly  the  culprit  was  brought  withont 
•slay  to  the  girl ;  and  scarcely  had  he  touched  her  lip*, 
kfore  his  whole  frame  was  impregnated  with  poison,  and 
he  expired.  Alexander,  glad  at  his  escape  from  such 
imminent  destruction,  bestowed  all  thank*  on  hi»  in- 
fractor, and  returned  the  girl  to  her  mother.* 

"■Tbia    etory    is    founded   on   the   twenty-eighth    cb»pt*r    '■' 
«iitotlc's  Secretvh   SECBCToata :   in  which  *  queen  of  India  i» 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


A  PPL  [CATION. 


■ 


My  beloved,  any  good  Christian  strong  and  powerful  in 
virtue*)  communicated  at  his  baptism,  may  be  called  Alex- 
ander. He  is  strong  and  powerful  as  long  as  he  preserves 
his  purity  from  the  contamination  of  the  devil,  the  world, 
and  tho  flesh.  The  Queen  of  the  North  is  a  superfluity  of 
the  things  of  life,  which  sometimes  destroys  the  spirit,  and 
generally  the  body.  The  envenomed  beauty  is  Luxury 
ami  Gluttony,  which  feed  men  with  delicacies,  that  are 
poison  to  the  soul.  Aristotle  is  thy  conscience,  or  reason, 
which  reproves  and  opposes  the  union  that  would  undo 
the  soul.  The  malefactor  is  a  perverse  man,  disobedient 
to  his  God,  and  more  diligent  in  pursuing  his  own  carnal 
delights  than  tho  divine  commands.  He  enfolds  his  sins 
in  a  close  embrace,  by  whose  deadly  touch  he  is  spiritually 
destroyed.     So  the  Book  of  Wisdom :  "  He  who  touches 

iiitch  shall  be  denied  by  it."  Let  us  then  study  to  live 
louestly  and  uprightly,  in  order  that  we  may  attain  to 
everlasting  life. 


OF  BAD  EXAMPLE 
Is  the  reign  of  Otho  there  was  a  certain  slippery  priest, 
who  created  much  disturbance  among  his  parishioners, 
and  many  were  extremely  scandalized.  One  of  them,  in 
particular,  always  absented  himself  from  Mass,  when  it 
fell  to  the  priest's  turn  to  celebrate  it.  Now,  it  happened  on 
a  festival  day,  during  the  time  of  Mass,  that  as  this  person 

said  to  have  trpiii'hi-rntisly  *™t  In  Al.-xaniier,  anion;;  other  cosily 
presents,  the  pietninlfd  ti>liiiJ'iTiiis.J  of  h . ■  r  friiriuli-liip.  ,1  st'n[  of  exqui- 
site beauty,  who  having  been  fed  with  serpents  from  her  infancy, 
partook  of  their  nature.  If  I  recollect  right,  in  Pliny  there  are 
accounts  of  nations  whose  natural  food  was  poison.  Mithridates, 
king  of  Pontua,  the  land  of  venomous  herbs,  ami  the  country  of  the 
Nurceres»  Medea,  was  supposed  to  i'&t  pr-iison.  Sir  .I.-.iin  Maml«ille*3 
Travels,  I  believe,  will  afford  other  instances,"— Wabton, 

[Mr.  O.  Wendell  Holmes  has  made  usq  of  this  weird  notion  in  his 
'   "Elsie  Venoer." -Ed.] 


OF  BAD   EXAMPLE. 


23 


was  walking  alone  through  a  meadow,  a  sudden  thirst 
came  upon  him  ;  insomuch  that  be  was  persuaded,  unlet* 
present  relief  could  he  obtained,  he  should  die.  In  this 
extremity,  continuing  his  walk,  lie  discovered  a  rivulet  of 
tie  purest  water,  of  which  he  copiously  drank.  But  the 
more  he  drank,  the  more  violent  became  his  thirst.  Sur- 
prised at  so  unusual  an  occurrence,  he  said  to  himself,  "  I 
will  find  out  the  source  of  this  rivulet,  and  there  satisfy 
my  thirst."  As  he  proceeded,  an  old  man  of  majestic 
a|.']x-arauce  met  him,  and  said,  "My  friend,  where  are  yon 
going?"  The  other  answered,  "I  am  oppressed  by  an 
I'wssive  drought,  surpassing  even  belief.  I  discovered  a 
little  stream  of  water,  and  drank  of  it  plentifully;  but  the 
mure  I  drank,  the  more  I  thirsted.  So  I  am  endeavouring 
to  find  its  source,  that  I  may  drink  there,  and,  if  it  be 
possible,  deliver  myself  from  the  torment."  The  old  man 
pointed  with  his  finger.  "  There,"  mi  id  he,  "is  the  spriug- 
lioiid  of  the  rivulet.  But  tell  me.  mine  honest  friend,  why 
we  you  not  at  church,  and  with  other  good  Christians 
hearing  Mass?"  The  man  answered.  "Truly,  master,  our 
j'li.st  leads  such  an  execrable  life,  that  I  think  it  utterly 
impossible  he  should  celebrate  it.  so  as  to  please  God."  To 
«huh  the  old  man  returned,  "  Suppose  what  you  say  in 
trne.  Observe  this  fountain,  from  which  so  much  ex- 
'■'Iknt  water  issues,  and  from  which  you  have  lately 
drunk."  He  looked  in  the  direction  pointed  out,  and 
Held  a  putrid  dog  with  its  mouth  wide  open,  and  its 
''■'■tL  black  and  decayed,  through  which  the  whole  foun- 
fcfa  gushed  in  a  surprising  manner.  The  man  regarded 
'lie  stream  with  great  terror  and  confusion  of  mini), 
«nfently  desirous  of  quenching  his  thirst,  but  apprehensive 
of  poison  from  the  fetid  and  loathsome  carcase,  with 
which,  to  all  appearance,  the  water  was  imbued.  "  Be 
"»t  afraid,"  said  the  old  man.  regarding  his  repugnance, 
"because  thou  hast  already  drank  of  the  rivulet;  drink 
•gun,  it  will  not  harm  thee."  Encouraged  by  these 
«nuances,  and  impelled  by  the  intensity  of  his  thirnt, 
1*  partook  of  it  once  more,  and  instantly  recovered  from 
•he  drought.  "  Oh,  master !  "  cried  he,  "  never  man  drank 
°f  such  delicious  water."  The  old  roan  answered,  "  -See 
""w;  as  this  water,  gushing  through  the   mouth  of  a 


24 


GESTA    ROMANdRUM. 


putrid  dog,  is  neither  polluted  nor  lose»  aught,  of  ifa 
natural  taste  or  colour,  bo  is  the  celebration  of  Muss  by  a 
worthless  minister.  And  therefore,  though  the  vices  of 
such  men  may  displease  and  disgust,  yet  should  you  not 
forsake  the  duties  of  wliiuli  they  ui'ii  (lie  appointed  urgan." 
Haying  theae  words,  the  old  man  disappeared ;  and  what, 
the  other  had  seen  he  eonimunicated  to  his  neighbour*, 
and  ever  after  punctually  attended  Masa.  Ho  brought 
this  unstable  and  transitory  life  to  a  good  end,  and  passed 
from  that  which  ia  corruptible  to  inherit  incorruption. 
Which  may  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  Mary, 
grant  to  all. 


AF  pi,  I  CATION. 
My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God,  in  whose  kingdom, 
that  is,  in  the  world,  there  is  an  evil  priest ;  namely,  every 
pervem  Christian.  For  as  the  priest  provides  for  the 
spiritual  welfare  of  his  parishioners,  so  the  Christian  iw 
required  to  watch  over  and  preserve  the  spiritual  gifts 
communicated  in  baptism.  The  bad  priest,  through  the 
influence  of  a  bad  example,  causes  ninny  to  separate  from 
tho  community;  and,  therefore,  St.  Gregory  well  says 
that  "as  often  as  he  does  an  ill  action,  he  loses  a  soul." 
In  liko  manner,  the  hud  Christian  occasions  the  condemna- 
tion of  multitudes  by  tho  attraction  of  wicked  examples 
and  enticing  words.  If  any  of  you  to  whom  I  now  speak 
have  been  so  deluded,  act.  like  the  parishioner  in  our  story. 
Walk  across  tho  meadowB,  that  is,  through  tho  world, 
until  you  find  one  whom  your  soul  esteems  and  loves — to 
wit,  that  old  man,  who  is  Christ,  revealed  by  actions  of 
benevolence  and  mercy.  Rut,  in  the  first  place,  drink  of 
I  lie  rivulet,  iiltlniii^li  it  sin 'i  ild  i  ml  immediately  extinguish 
your  thirst.  That  rivulet  is  baptism,  which  alone  is  able 
to  quench  the  drought  .-.iccasioiicd  liy  original  sin.  Yet, 
should  the  evil  nature  of  that  origin  prevail,  and  you  fall 
again  into  error,  then  seek  out  the  fountain  and  there 
drink.  For  that  fountain  is  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  He 
witnesses  of  Himself:  "1  am  a  fountain  of  living  water, 
springing  up  into  eternal  life." — John  iv.  The  streams  or 
7      of  that  fountain  arc  the  words  of  Scripture,  which 


OF  BAD    EXAMPLE. 

too  frequently  issue  from  the  mouth  of  a  putrid  dog ;  that 
is,  of  an  evil  preacher.  Jf  it  should  be  asked  why  th« 
spring  of  pure  water  is  made  to  flow  through  the  rank 
jiiffi  of  a  dug,  rather  than  through  those  of  any  other 
animal,  it  is  answered,  1  hat  Scripture  more  usually  com- 
pare» it  with  a  priest  than  with  anything  else ;  and  as  in 
a  dog  there  are  four  excellent  qualities,  described  in  the 
following  couplet :— . 

"  In  cane  bis  bin»  sunt :  et  lingua  medicina, 
Nnria  odor&tus,  amor  integer,  atque  latratus." 
[In  a  dug  thero  are  four  things :  a  medicinal  tongue:  *  a  distinguish. 
ingotse;  an  unshaken  love,  and  unremitting  watchfulness.] 

So  priests,  who  would  be  useful  in  their  station,  ought 
diligently  to  cultivate  these  four  properties.  First,  that 
Ihc.ir  tongue  possess  the  power  of  a  physician  in  healing 
the  sick  in  heart,  and  probing  the  wounds  of  sin ;  being 
careful,  at  the  same  time,  that  too  rough  a  treatment  does 
not  exacerbate  rather  than  cure :  for  it  is  the  nature  of 
Jugs  to  lick  the  body's  wounds.  Secondly,  as  a  dog,  by 
keenneSB  of  scent,  distinguishes  a  fox  from  a  hare,  so  a 
priest,  by  the  quickness  of  his  perception  in  auricular 
diwiusmrcs.  should  discover  what  portion  of  them  apper- 
tain» to  the  cunning  of  the  fox — that  is,  to  heretical  and 
sophistical  porvorsoriess ;  what  to  internal  struggles  and 
timorous  ap  pre  liens  ions,  arising  from  the  detestation  of 
evil  or  hopelessness  of  pardon  ;  and  what  to  the  unbroken 
ferocity  of  the  wolf  or  Hon,  originating  in  a  haughty  con- 
tempt of  consequences;  with  other  gradations  of  a  like 
character.  Thirdly,  as  the  dog  is  of  all  animals  the  most 
iitillifii],  and  ready  in  defence  of  his  master  or  his  family, 
so  priests  also  should  show  themselves  staunch  advocates 
for  the  Catholic  Faith;  and  zealous  for  the  everlasting 
salvation,  not  of  their  parishioners  alone,  but  of  every 
denomination  of  true  Christians,  according  to  the  words 
of  our  Lord,  John  x.  :  "  A  good  shepherd  lays  down  his  life 
for  his  sheep."  Also,  John  i.  :  "  Christ  laid  down  His  life 
•  Lovel,  in  hi"  l'a^iij"tiyiv'ii-r,iiiu-i;iit«jui.  lias  enumerated  all  the 
rare  properties  which  iiuek-sil  iiiciiji'in»  i;tiri!>iU<-<l  to  dogs ;  but  what 
f'jrli ■  ■  ■  j  1  -. T-  virtue  the  Ib-nijue  was  held  to  posses*  ' 
Lovcl's  work  niuot  have  been  o: 


■err 


26  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

for  us."  And  we,  in  humble  imitation  of  our  divine 
Master,  ought  to  lay  down  our  lives  for  our  brethren. 
Fmrlkly,  an  a  dog  by  barking  betrays  the  approach  of 
thieves,  and  permits  not  the  property  of  his  master  to  be 
invaded,  bo  the  faithful  priest  is  the  watch-dog  of  the 
great  King :  one  who  by  his  bark,  that  is,  his  preaching 
and  his  watchfulness,  ceases  not  to  defeat  the  scheme» 
and  machinations  of  the  devil  against  his   Lord's  treasury. 


that  is,  the  soul  of  1 
Christ   hat 
precious  blood. 


neighbour,  which 
rith   the   mighty 


OF   INORDINATE   LOVE. 


ot    llis 


A  ckhtais  emperor  was  strongly  attached  to  a  beautiful 
wife.  In  the  first  year  of  their  marriage,  she  was 
delivered  of  a  son,  upon  whom  she  doatcd  with  extrava- 
gant fondness.  When  the  child  had  completed  its  third 
year,  the  king  died  ;  for  whose  death  great  lamentation 
was  made  through  the  whole  kingdom.  The  queen  be- 
wailed him  bitterly;  and,  after  his  remains  were  deposited 
in  the  royal  sepulchre,  took  up  her  residence  in  another 
part  of  the  country,  accompanied  by  her  son.  This  child 
became  the  object  of  an  affection  so  violent,  that  no  con- 
«deration  could  induce  her  to  leave  him ;  and  they 
invariably  occupied  the  same  bod,  even  till  the  boy  had 
attained  his  eighteenth  year.  Now,  when  the  devil 
perceived  the  irregular  attachment  of  the  mother,  and 
the  filial  return  exhibited  by  the  son,  he  insinuated  black 
and  unnatural  thoughts  into  their  minds  -,  and  from  time 
to  time  repealing  his  detestable  sol imitations,  finally  over- 
threw them.  The  queen  became  pregnant;  and  the 
unhappy  son,  filled  with  the  deepest  horror,  and  writhing 
beneath  the  most  intolerable  agony,  quitted  the  kingdom, 
and  never  was  heard  of  again.  In  due  time  the  queen  was 
delivered  of  a  lovely  female,  whom  her  eyes  no  sooner  be- 
held, than— (mark,  ye  who  dream  that  one  dereliction  from 


OF   INORDINATE   LOVE. 


27 


virtue  may  lie  tried  with  impunity — mark  !)  desperate  at 
il;i'  remembrance  of  her  fearful  crime,  and  apprehensive  of 
detection,  she  snatched  up  a  knife  that  lay  beside  her,  and 
plunged  it  into  the  infant's  breast.  Not  content  with  this 
inhibition  of  maternal  inhumanity,  aho  cut  it  directly 
across  the  throat,  from  whence  the  blood  rapidly  gushed 
forth,  and  falling  upon  the  palm  of  her  left  hand,  dis- 
tinctly impressed  four  circular  lines,  which  no  human 
power  could  erase.  Terrified,  not  less  at  the  singular 
"'i;*!|ik:iiee  of  her  guilt  than  at  the  guilt  itself,  she 
carefully  concealed  this  awful  and  mysterious  evidence. 
ar.J  dedicated  herself  for  life  to  the  service  of  the  blessed 
Virgin.  Yet,  though  penitent  for  what  she  had  done,  and 
regularly  every  fifteenth  morning  duly  confessed,  she 
scrupulously  avoided  any  disclosure  relating  to  that 
torrid  transaction.     .She  distributed  alms  with  the  most 

■  ■'iiili'l  liUiitlity;  and  the  people,  experiencing  her 
tiiidness  and  benevolence,  evinced  towards  her  the 
greatest  respect  and  love. 

It  happened  on  a  certain  night,  as  her  confessor  knelt 
»t  his  devotions,  repeating  five  times  aloud  the  "Ave 
Maria,"  that,  the  blessed  Virgin  herself  appeared  to  him, 
and  said,  "  I  am  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  have  an  important 
ooBBHtnicatioD  to  make  to  thee."  The  confessor,  full  of 
joy,  answered,  "  Oh,  dear  Lady,  wherein  can  thy  servant 
please  thee?  "  She  replied,  "  The  queen  of  this  kingdom 
nU.eoniesB  herself  to  you;  but  there  is  one  sin  she  has 
'"iiiiiiittud,  which  shame  and  horror  will  not  permit  her 
'"  disclose.  On  the  morrow  she  will  come  to  you ;  tell 
tor  from  me,  that  her  alms  and  her  prayers  have  been 
Wcepted  in  the  sight  of  my  Son  ;  I  command  her,  there- 
fore, to  confess  that  crime  which  she  secretly  committed 
in  her  chamber — for,  alas !  she  slew  her  daughter.  I  have 
entreated  for  her,  and  her  sin  is  foTgiven,  if  she  will 
confess  it.  But  if  she  yield  no  attention  to  your  words, 
oid  her  lay  aside  the  cover  upon  her  left  hand ;  and  on 
tor  palm  you  will  read  the  crime  she  refuses  to  acknow- 
ledge. If  she  deny  this  also,  take  it  off  by  force."  When 
slit  had  thus  spoken,  the  blessed  Virgin  disappeared.  Ju 
the  morning,  the  queen  with  great  humility  was  shrieved 
"fall  her  sins — that  one  excepted.     After  she  had  uttered 


28  GESTA   ROMANOKUM. 

as  much  as  she  chose,  the  confessor  said,  "Madam,  and 
dear  daughter,  people  are  very  inquisitive  to  know  tor  what 
strange  reason  you  constantly  wear  that  cover  upon  your 
left  hand.  Let  me  see  it,  I  beseech  you,  that  I  may 
ascertain  why  it  is  concealed,  and  whether  the  conceai- 
inent  be  pleasing  to  God."  The  queen  answered,  "  Mir, 
my  hand  is  diseased,  and  therefore  T  cannot  show  it." 
Hearing  this,  the  coui'essor  caught  hold  of  her  arm,  and 
notwithstanding  her  resistance,  drew  off  the  cover. 
"  Lady,"  said  he,  "  fear  not ;  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary 
loves  you  ;  and  it  is  she  who  hath  commanded  me  to  do 
this."  When  the  hand  was  uncovered,  there  appeared 
four  circles  of  blood.  In  the  first  circle  there  were  four 
letters  in  the  form  of  a  C ;  in  the  second,  four  D's;  in 
the  third,  four  M's ;  and  in  the  fourth,  four  K's.  Upon 
the  outward  edge  of  the  circles,  in  the  manner  of  a  seal, 
a  blood-coloured  writing  was  distinguishable,  containing 
the  legend  beneath.  First,  of  the  letter  C,— which 
was  interpreted,  "  Canu  ci-ridisl.!  i-nnu-  atraia."  [Blinded 
by  the  flesh  thou  hast  fallen.]  The  letter  D,  "  D&moui 
dedinti  dona  donata,"  [The  gifts  that  were  bestowed  on 
thee  thou  hast  given  to  the  devil.]  The  letter  M, 
"  Mottstrat  mamfeat'e.  mantis  maculata,"  [The  stain  upon 
thy  hand  discovers  thee.]  The  letter  E,  "  Becedet  rubigo, 
reijina  rogoia."  TWhen  the  queen  is  interrogated  the  red 
marks  will  vanish.]  The  lady  beholding  this,  fell  at  the 
confessor's  feet,  and  with  many  tears  meekly  related  her 
dreadful  offences.  Then  he i Jig  entirely  and  truly  penitent, 
she  was  absolved  ;  and  a  very  few  days  afterwards,  slept 
in  the  Lord.  Her  death  was  long  lamented  by  the  whole 
state* 


AF  PLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Jesus  Christ,  who  married 

a  beautiful   girl,  that  is,  our  human   nature,  when    He 

became   incarnate.       But  first   He   was   betrothed   to   her, 

wKon   the   Father,  speaking  to  the  Son  and  Holy  Ghost, 

— "  Let  us  make  man  in  our  own  image,  after  our 

"Tina  story  n 


OF   HONOURING   PAKBNT&  29 

likeness."  Our  Lord  had  a  fair  child,  that  is  to  nay.  the 
**/  made  free  from  all  spot  by  Hii  Passion,  and  by  virtue 
of  baptism.  That  Honl  is  skin  in  na  by  sin.  I)o  yon  ask 
lii'v, ■?  I  «ill  tell  you.  Hy  giving  ourselves  up  to  carnal 
ildights,  whose  fruit  is  death.  The  hluod  on  the  hand  ii 
*in,  which  tenaciously  clings  to  ua;  as  it  in  said,  "  My 
buuI  is  ever  in  my  own  hands  " — that  in.  whether  it  doe» 
Wll  or  ill  is  as  openly  apjKirent  aa  if  it  were  placed  in 
Mi.  hutdi  for  the  inspection  and  sentence  of  the  Supreme 

['I'ltrn  are  two  moralixaUeni  to  this  (story :  but  then:  u  nothing  ia 
either  north  emni  (nation .] 


OF   HONOURING    PARENTS. 

Is  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Dorotheus  a  decree  waa 
[MBed  that  children  should  support  their  parents.  There 
Win,  »t  that  time,  in  the  kingdom,  a  certain  .soldier,  who 
hiid  espoused  a  very  fair  and  virtuous  woman,  hy  whom 
1»  had  a  son.  It  happened  that  the  soldier  went  upon 
a  journey,  was  made  prisoner,  and  very  rigidly  confined. 
Iiiiisii-Jiaiuly  he  wrote  to  his  wife  and  son  for  ransom. 
The  intelbgence  communicated  great  uneasinestt  to  the 
former,  who  wept  bo  bitterly  that  she  became  blind. 
Whereupon  the  son  said  to  his  mother,  "  I  will  hasten  to 
my  father,  and  release  him  from  prison."  The  mother 
*U8vrered,  "  Thou  shalt  not  go  ;  for  thou  art  my  only  son 
-even  the  half  of  n>y  soul,*  and  it  may  happen  to  thee 
«it  has  done  tohiin.  Hadst  thou  rut  her  ransom  thy  absent 
fMBlrt  than  protect  her  who  is  with  thee,  and  presses  thee 
I"  her  affectionate  arms?  I»  ni-lt  tne  possession  of  one 
thing  better  than  the  expectation  of  two?t  Thou  art 
i*4  with  f™ 

Alitor  was  acquainted  with  Horace  (Citrm.  i.  3). 

[Si-t  also  C'urm,  ii.  17,  ii.     Fvtlm(rotos  is  said  to  have  gpokt-D  of  a 
ir^d  «J  bis  ai  fa™  Tij,  ^uxSi.— En.] 

t  The  Latin  teit  ie,  "Quotiena  it" 
dwbusei  qui  tst  prase 


30 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


my  son  as  well  as  thy  father's ;  and  I  am  present,  while 
he  is  absent.  I  conclude,  therefore,  that  you  ought  by 
no  means  to  forsake  me  though  to  redeem  your  father." 
The  son  very  properly  answered. ""  Although  I  am  thy  son, 
yet  he  is  my  father.  He  is  abroad  and  surrounded  by  the 
merciless  ;  but  thou  art  at  home,  protected  and  cherished 
by  loving  friends.  He  is  a  captive,  but  thou  art  free — 
blind,  indeed  ;  but  he  perhaps  sees  not  the  light  of  heaven, 
and  pours  forth  unheeded  groans  in  the  gloom  of  a  loath- 
some dungeon  oppressed  with  chains,  with  wounds,  and 
misery.  Therefore  it  is  ray  determination  to  go  to  him 
and  redeem  him."  The  son  did  so ;  and  every  one 
applauded  and  honoured  him  for  the  indefatigable  in- 
dustry with  which  he  achieved  his  lather's  liberation. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  heavenly  Father,  who 
imposes  upon  sons  the  duty  of  maintaining  and  obeying 
their  parents.  But  who  is  our  father  and  mother  ?  Christ 
is  our  father,  as  we  read  in  Deut.  32.  His  affection  for  us 
partakes  more  of  this  than  of  the  maternal  character. 
You  know  that  when  the  eon  transgresses,  the  father  cor- 
rects! him  somewhat  harshly,  even  with  stripes  and  blows; 
while  the  doating  mother  soothes  and  coaxes  her  favourite 
into  humour.  Christ  permits  us  to  be  scourged,  because 
of  our  many  failings  ;  on  the  contrary,  our  mother,  the 
world,  promises  us  infinite  pleasures  and  lascivious  enjoy- 
ments. Christ  forsakes  us,  and  goes*  into  a  far  country,  as 
it  is  written  in  the  t'salms,  "  i  am  made  a  stranger  by  my 
brethren."  Christ  is  still  hound  and  in  prison ;  not  indeed 
by  Himself,  but  by  those  who  are  the  members  of  His 
Church  ;  for  so  says  the  apostle  to  the  Hebrews.  "  Who- 
soever lives  in  any  mortal  sin  is  cast  into  the  prison  of 

h  as  two  by  htm 
;]  It  is  therefore 
_■  adhered   to   the   most."    The   tense  answers   \a   the  English 
verb,  "  A  bird  in  1. 1 1 ■  -  luiud  is  worth  two  in  the  bush." 
[I   have  examined   «-vei-iil    of  the   printed   copies   in    tile  British 
iseuin,  in  hopes  of  finding  cut  in  mime  uui-  of  them,  as  n  vuriaut  for 
in  this  passive,  but  williunl  success.   Cut  could  be  translated  with 
much  less  difficulty  than  cjui,  which  is  awkward  iu  the  extreme  —  Ep.j 


■ 


OF   HONOURING   PARENTS.  31 

the  devil ;"  but  our  Father  wills  that  wo  labour  for  his 
redemption.  Luke  9:  "Let  the  dead  bury  their  dead," 
said  our  blessed  LoTd ;  "  but  go  thou,  aud  preach  the 
kingdom  of  God,"— and  this  is  to  redeem  Christ.  For 
whosoever  powerfully  preaches  the  word  of  God,  advan- 
tages his  brother,  and  in  him  redeems  Christ.  Matt.  25: 
"  That  which  you  have  done  to  the  least  of  these  my 
followers,  ye  have  also  done  unto  me."  Dut  the  mother, 
that  is,  the  world,  will  not  permit  a  man  to  follow  Christ 
into  exile  and  poverty,  but  detains  him  with  diverse 
arguments.  "  I  cannot,"  she  say?,  "  eadure  a  life  of 
abstinence  and  privation  which  I  must  necessarily  submit 
to,  if  you  repent  and  turn  after  Christ."  Thus  it  is  with 
whatsoever  she  proposes  to  man's  acceptance  :  but  do  not 
comply  with  her  wishce.  Ciho  is  blind  indeed,  for  she 
exclaims,  "  Let  us  enjoy  the  good  things  of  life,  and 
speedily  use  the  universe  like  as  in  youth ; "  but,  my 
beloved,  if  you  are  good  and  grateful  sons,  thus  answer 
your  worldly  minded  mother:  ''My  father  is  the  source 
of  my  being— that  is,  of  my  soul ;  and  all  things  which 
1  possess  are  his  free  gift."  Therefore,  I  advise  you  not 
to  desire  length  of  years,  which  may  approach  in  suffering, 
poverty,  and  blindness  ;  for  then  the  world  will  flee  you, 
how  much  soever  you  cling  to  it.  Ko  longer  than  you 
can  be  serviceable  will  you  bo  valued.*  Remember  this, 
and  study  to  amend  your  lives  with  all  diligence  ;  that  so 
you  may  come  eventually  to  everlasting  life.  To  which 
may  God  lead  us,  who  lives,  <fcc. 

•  The  j>fcii(,iiu..-]it  licrri  osjirfs^i  il.  implies  a  greater  knowledge  tit 
the  world  than  we  should  have  looked  for  in  an  «.orotic;  but  we 
frequently  meet  with  a  shrewd  reflect  i"».  v.  In-ii  w*t  prepared  for  it 
— as  the  forest-ranger  finds  the  "onwslip.  violet,  and  tile  primrose 
■pale,"  ornamenting  the  wildest  and  must  sequestered  nooks.  Old 
Bni-t'ii  hai  a  passuse  «o  similar,  b..th  in  thought  and  expression,  that 
I  cannot  forbear  affixing  it  at  fo"t :  "Our  estate  and  bene  ems  ebbs 
and  Uowb  with  our  .-.plum  :.iity  :  and  as  we  are  endowed  or  enriched, 
lo  wa  are  beloved  or  "-iiiT.iu.il .  u  lasts  no  longer  than  our  wealth . 
«hen  that  is  gone,  aid  the  object  removed,  farewell  friendship:  as 
lung  as  bounty,  good  cheer,  and  rewards  were  to  be  hoped,  friends 
enough  ;  they  wore  lied  t^  Ibt-e  by  the  teeth,  and  would  follow  thee 

bs  crows  do  a  carcase :  hut  when   thy  g li  are  gone  and  spent,  the 

lump  of  their  love  is  out:  ano  thou  shall  In1  contemned,  scorned, 
lialutl,  injured." — Anatomy  of  Mtlaiicholy,  vol.  ii.  u.  lli'J. 


QESTA   ROMANORTJM. 


In  the  reign  of  one  of  the  Roman  emperors  f  lived  a 
youth,  named  Alexius,  the  son  of  Eut'emian,  a  noble 
lioman,  at  that  time  tlxt*  chief  ornament  of  the  emperor's 
court.  ITe  was  attended  by  a  band  of  three  thousand 
youths,  girded  with  golden  /ones,  and  habited  in  silken 
vestures.  Eufemian  was  well  known  for  his  charity.  Ho 
daily  maintained  three  tables,  to  which  the  widow  and 
the  orphan  were  ever  welcome.  Their  necessities  wer_> 
often  supplied  by  his  own  person  ;  and  at  the  ninth  hour, 
in  company  with  other  devout  men,  lie  sat.  down  to  dinner. 
His  wife,  whose  name  was  Abael,  was  as  religious  und 
charitable  as  himself.  But  there  is  ever  some  bitterness 
mixed  up  with  the  draught  of  human  joy;  and  in  the 
midst  of  so  much  splendour,  the  want  of  a  successor  was 
long  a  source  of  unavailing  affliction.  At  length  their 
prayers  were  heard;  Heaven,  in  its  benevolence,  blessed 
them  with  a  son,  who  was  carefully  instructed  in  all  the 
polite  learning  of  the  period.  Arriving  at  the  age  of 
manhood,  he  proved  himself  an  acute  and  solid  reusoner. 
But  reason  is  no  harrier  against  love ;  he  became  attached 
to  a  lady  of  the  blood-royal,  and  was  united  to  her.  On 
the  very  evening  of  their  nuptials,  when  the  clamour  of 
the  feast  had  subsided,  the  pious  youth  commenced  a 
theological  disquisition,  and  strove  with  much  force  and 
earnestness  to  impress  his  bride  with  the  tear  'ind  love  of 
God.  When  he  had  concluded,  recommending  her  to  pre- 
serve the  same  modesty  of  demeanour  for  which  she  had 
always  been  distinguished,  lie  consigned  to  her  care  his 
gold  ring,  and  the  clasp  j  of  the  sword -belt  which  usually 
begirt  him.    "  Take  charge  of  these  vanities, '  said  he,  "for 


»  It  i 


j<<'ri|>]ini:itiFsill3'  translated. 

t  Before  the  close  of  the  tale 
t  The  Latin  is  caput;  if  it 


the  reader   that  this  tale  is  BomewhM 


Mt   what  it 


OF   ALEXIUS. 


33 


I  abjure  them;  anil  as  long  as  it  shall  please  God,  keep 
them  in  remembrance  of  me  :  may  the  Almighty  guide 
us."  He  then  provided  a  sum  of  money,  and  going  down 
to  the  sea-coast,  secretly  embarked  in  a  ship  bound  for 
L&odicea.  From  thence  be  proceeded  to  Edessa,*  a  city 
of  Syria.  It  was  here  that  the  image  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  wrought  upon  linen  by  supernatural  hands,  was 
preserved.  On  reaching  this  place  be  distributed  what- 
ever he  had  brought  with  him  to  the  poor;  and  putting 
on  a  worn  and  tattered  garment,  joined  bimsolf  to  a 
number  of  mendicants  who  sat  in  the  porch  of  the  temple 
dedicated  to  the  Virgin  Mary.  He  now  constantly 
solicited  alma;  but  of  all  that  he  received,  only  th'n 
smallest  portion  was  retained — an  unbounded  charity 
leading  him  to  bestow  the  residue  upon  his  more  needy, 
or  more  covetous  brethren. 

The  father  of  Aleiius,  however,  was  overwhelmed 
»"ith  sorrow  at  the  inexplicable  departure  of  his  son  ;  and 
despatched  his  servants  m  pursuit  of  him  to  various  part* 
of  the  world.  These  servants  were  very  diligent  in  theii 
inquiries;  and  it  chanced  that  certain  of  them  came  t'. 
the  city  of  Edessa,  and  were  recognised  by  Alexius  ;  but. 
pertinaciously  concealing  himself  under  the  garb  of  want 
snd  misery,  he  passed  unknown  and  unsuspected.  The 
men,  little  aware  who  was  experiencing  their  bounty, 
conferred  large  alms  upon  the  paupers  amongst  whom  he 
sojourned ;  and  his  heart  silently  but  gratefully  acknow- 
ledged the  benefaction :  "  I  thank  thee,  0  my  God,  that 
thou  hast  thought  good  to  dispense  thine  alms  by  the 
bands  of  my  own  servants." 

On  this  unsuccessful  issue  of  their  search,  the  messen- 
gers returned  ;  and  when  the  intelligence  of  their  failure 
reached  his  mother,  she  shut  herself  up  in  a  remote  chain  - 
W,  and  there  gave  utterance  to  her  griefs.  She  slept 
Upon  the  ground,  with  sackcloth  only  for  a  covering ;  and 
«olemnly  vowed  never  to  change  her  way  of  life  until  sho 
recovered  her  lost  son.  The  bride  said  to  her  father-iii- 
W,  "Until  I  hear  tidings  from  my  sweet  husband  I  will 
remain  with  you."     In  the  mean  time,  Alexius  remained  a 

"  It  bag  also  borne  the  names  of  Antioehia,  Callinhoi, .)  mtinopolt. 
—and  Rhiini,  aaid  to  hare   >scn  built  by  Ximtod 


34  GESTA   ROMANOHUM. 

beggar  in  the  porch  of  St.  Mary's  church  for  the  space  of 
seventeen  years  ;  until  at  length  the  imago  of  tho  Virgin, 
which  stood  within  the  sacred  edifice,  said  to  the  warden, 
"  Canse  that  man  of  God  to  enter  the  sanctuary :  for  he  is 
worthy  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  upon  whom  tho  spirit 
of  God  rests.  His  prayer  ascends  like  incense  to  the  throne 
of  grace."  But  since  the  warden  know  not  of  whom  she 
spake,  she  said  once  more,  "  It  is  the  man  who  sits  at  the 
entrance  of  tho  porch."  The  warden  then  went  out  quickly, 
and  brought  him  into  the  church.  Now,  a  circumstance  of 
this  extraordinary  nature  soon  attracted  remark ;  and  tho 
veneration  with  which  they  began  to  consider  AlexiuB, 
approached  almost  to  adoration.  But  he  despised  human 
glory,  and  entering  a  ship,  set  sail  for  Tarsus,*  in  Cilicia ; 
but  the  providence  of  God  so  ordered,  that  a  violent  tem- 
pest carried  them  into  a  Roman  port.  Alexius,  informed 
of  this  circumstance,  said  within  himself,  "I  will  hasten 
to  my  father's  house ;  no  one  will  know  me,  and  it  is 
better  that  I  prove  burthensome  to  him,  than  to  another." 
As  he  proceeded,  he  mot  his  father  coming  from  the  palace, 
surrounded  by  a  large  concourse  of  dependants,  and  im- 
mediately he  shouted  after  him,  "  Servant  of  God,  com- 
mand a  poor  and  desolate  stronger  to  be  conveyed  into 
your  house,  and  fed  with  tho  crumbs  which  fall  from  the 
table :  so  shall  the  Lord  have  pity  on  the  wanderer  you 
love."  The  father,  out  of  lovo  to  his  son,  gave  him  into 
the  charge  of  his  followers,  and  appropriated  to  him  a 
room  in  his  house.  He  supplied  him  with  moat  from  his 
own  table,  and  appointed  one  who  was  accustomed  to 
attend  upon  himself  to  serve  him.  But  Alexius  discon- 
tinued not  the  fervency  of  his  devotion,  and  macerated  his 
l)ody  with  fasts  and  other  austerities.  And  though  the 
pampered  servants  derided  him,  and  frequently  emptied 
their  household  utensils  on  his  head,  his  patience  was 
always  invincible.  In  this  manner,  for  seventeen  years 
under  his  own  father's  roof,  his  life  was  spent ;  but  at  last, 
jHsrceiving  by  tho  spirit  that  his  end  approached,  he  pro- 
cured ink  and  paper,  and  recorded  the  narrative  of  his  lift. 
Now,  on  tho  succeeding  Sunday,  after  the  solemnization  of 

•  Tarsm  ia  the  capital  of  Cilicia,  called  iiy  tlio  Turks  Territ. 


OF  ALEXIUS.  o.J 

Mass,  a  voice  echoing  like  thunder  among  the  mountains, 
was  heard  through  the  city.  It  said,  "Come  unto  me,  all 
ye  that  labour,  and  I  will  give  you  real."  The  people,  terri- 
fied and  awe-struck,  fell  upon  their  faces;  when  a  second 
time  the  voice  exclaimed,  "  Seek  out  a  man  of  God  to  offer 
prayer  for  the  iniquity  of  lioino."  Search  was  accord- 
ingly made,  hut  no  such  man  could  he  found;  and  the 
same  voice  waxing  louder,  and  breathing  a»  it  were  with 
tin!  mingled  blast  of  ten  thousand  tfmusaiid  trumpets, 
Bpoke.  "  Search  in  the  house  of  Eufemian."  Then 
mperors  Arcadiiis  and  Honoring,"  in  conjunction  with 
Pontiff  Innocent,  proceeded  towards  the  house  to 
h  the  words  of  the  Invisible  directed  them,  and  as 
approached,  the  servant  who  attended  upun  Alexius 
COM  running  to  his  master,  and  cried,  "  What  think  you, 
my  Lord?  Is  not  the  mendicant  stranger  a  man  of  exem- 
plary life?  "  Eufemian.  following  up  the  huggestion,  has- 
tened to  his  chamber  and  found  him  extended  upon  the 
i*d.  Life  had  already  passed,  hut  his  countenance  retained 
J  dazzling  emanation  of  glory,  like  the  countenance  of  a 
itarab  in  its  own  pure  and  beatified  element.  A  paper 
«wupied  the  right  hand,  which  Eufemian  would  have 
Wne  away,  but  he  was  unable  to  extricate  it  from  the 
jraep  of  the  dead  man.  Leaving  him,  therefore,  he 
returned  to  the  emperors  and  the  pontiff,  and  related  what 
lie  had  seen.  They  were  astonished,  and  entering  tin- 
apartment  exclaimed,  "Sinners  though  we  are,  we  direct 
tee  helm  of  State,  and  provide  for  the  well-being  of  the 
paatoral  government.  Give  us,  then,  the  paper,  that  we 
may  know  what  it  contains."  Immediately  the  pontiff 
'Irew  near,  and  put  his  hand  upon  the  scroll  which  the 
deceased  yet  firmly  grasped, — and  he  instantly  relaxed  bio 
WE  It  was  read  to  the  people  ;  and  when  the  father, 
Eufemian,  beard  its  contents,  he  was  paralyzed  with  grief, 
uia  strength  deserted  him,  and  he  staggered  and  fell, 
Heturning  to  himself  a  little,  he  rent  his  garment,  plucked 
jt  the  silver  hairs  of  his  head,  and  tore  the  venerable 
that  swept  his  unhappy  bosom.     He  even  inflicted 

re  we  to  suppose  that  the  o 

"•a»  «tpererogatoiy. 


severe  wounds  upon  himself,  and  falling  upon  tlie  dead 
body,  cried,  "  Alas  I  my  son— my  son !  why  hast  thou  laid 
up  for  mo  Biicli  deadly  anguish  ?  Why,  for  bo  many  years, 
hast  thou  endured  a  bitterness  which  death  itself  cannot 
exceed?  Wretched  man  that  I  am,  he  who  should  have 
heeu  the  guardian  of  ray  increasing  infirmities,  and  the 
hope  and  the  honour  of  my  ago,  lies  upon  this  miserable 
pallet,  and  apeaks  not.  Oh !  where  is  conHolation  to  be 
found?"  At  this  instant,  like  an  enraged  and  wounded 
lioness  breaking  through  tho  toils  with  which  the  hunters 
had  encompassed  her,  the  poor  broken-hearted  Abaci,  who 
had  followed  in  the  presa,  rushod  desperately  forward. 
Her  garments  were  torn,  and  hanging  about  her  in  shreds ; 
her  hair  dishevolled  and  flying  ;  her  eyes,  wild  and  spark- 
ling with  tho  violence  of  emotion,  were  raised  piteously 
to  heaven.  With  that  strength  which  frenzy  sometimes 
supplies,  she  burst  through  t.ho  multitude  who  struggled 
to  detain  her ;  and  approaching  the  body  of  her  deceased 
child,  said,  or  rather  shrieked,  in  a  heart-piercing  accent, 
■'  t  will  pass ;  I  will  look  upon  my  soul's  only  comfort. 
Did  not  this  dried  fountain  suckle  him?  Have  not  theBe 
withered  arms  supported  him?  Hath  he  not  slept— ah ! 
not  such  sleep  as  this! — while  I  have  watched  him?  Oh, 
my  child  !  "  Saying  this,  she  throw  hor  emaciated  form 
upon  tho  unconscious  object  of  her  solicitude  ;  and  again 
giving  vent  to  her  sorrows,  exclaimed,  "  My  own  dear 
boy  !  light  of  tho  dimmed  eyes  that  will  soon  close  up*  n 
all,  since  thou  art  gone — why  hast  thou  wrought  this  ? 
why  wast  thou  so  inhuman  ?  Thou  didst  see  our  tears — 
thou  didst  hearken  to  our  groans — yet  earnest  not  forward 
to  abate  them !  Tho  slaves  scoffed  at  and  injured  thee, 
but  thou  wert  patient — too,  too  patient."  Again  and 
again  the  unfortunate  mother  prostrated  herself  upon  tbs 
body;  one  while  clasping  him  in  her  arms,  at  another, 
passing  her  hand  reverently  over  his  seraphic  features. 
Now,  she  impressed  a  kiss  lijmii  the  cold  cheek  and  eyelids 
which  her  tears  had  moistened  -and  now  bending  over  him, 
muttered  something  in  a  low  and  inaudible  voice.  Sud- 
denly turning  to  the  spectators,  she  said,  "  Weep,  I  pray 
ye,  weep:  ye  who  are  regarding  the  agonies  of  a  bereaved 
parent — have  ye  no  tear  to  spare  her?    Abiding  together 


OF   ALEXIUS.  37 

Cor  leventeen  years,  I  knew  him  not !  not  him,  my  beloved 
1  beautiful!     They  taunted  him,   and  showered   their 

inly  blows  upon  his  enduring  head.     Oh  !  who  will 

i  bring  tears  to  my  burning  eyolids?     Who — whu 

bear  &  part  in  my  misery  ?  " 

The  wife,  whom  Alexius  had  married  and  quitted  on 
the  evening  of  their  nuptial*,  liiid  been  borne  along  by  the 
wngregating  populace;  but  distress,  until  now,  had  hold 
W  silent.»  As  Abael  ceased,  she  sprung  forward  and 
wind,  "  Thou,  miserable  !  what  then  am  I?  Woe  is  me  I 
to-day  I  am  desolate ;  to-day  I  am  all  a  widow !  Now, 
there  is  none  for  whom  1  may  look — none  whom  I  may 
JKt  expect,  although  he  come  not.  Where  shall  mine  eye 
we  gladness  ?  The  glass  of  my  joy  is  broken  t— shivered 
— «hjvered :  my  hope  is  extinct ;  and  grief  is  all  the 
portion  of  my  widowhood."  The  multitude,  penetrated 
by  the  various  calamities  of  which  they  wore  witnesses. 
■\v:up;itrii/Ld  with  the  sufferers,  and  wept  aloud. 

By  command  of  the  pontiff  and  the  two  emperors,  the 
body  was  deposited  on  a  sumptuous  bier,  and  brought  into 
thu  middle  of  the  city.  Proclamation  was  made  that  the 
nisn  of  God  was  discovered,  whom  they  had  before  sought 
in  vain  ;  and  every  one  crowded  to  the  bier.  Now,  if  any 
infirm  person  touched  the  hallowed  corpse,  instantly  lie 
wis  strengthened.  The  blind  received  their  sight ;  those 
who  were  possessed  of  devils  were  net  free,  and  all  the 
sick,  bo  the  disorder  what  it  might,  when  they  had  once 
noma  in  contact  with  the  body,  wore  made  whole.  These 
miraculous  effects  attracted  the  attention  of  the  emperors 
wi  the  pontiff.  They  determined  to  support  the  bier ; 
«d  when  they  had  done  so,  they  were  sanctified  by  the 
Wiucss  which  proceeded  t'nuii  the  corse.  They  then  scat- 
tered great  abundance  of  gold  and  silver  about  the  streets, 
lJ«t  the  people's  natural  cupidity  might  draw  them  aside, 
wd  the  bier  be  carried  forward  to  the  church  ;  but, 
sttsDge  to  say,  careless  of  all  else,  they  pressed  yet  the 
mora  vehemently  to  touch  it.  At  length,  after  great  exer- 
tions, he  was  brought  to  the  church  of  St.  Boniface  the 

'  The  reader  will  not  perhaps  comprehend  much  occasion  for  the 
Mj*!  «now. 

t  The  monk  is  not  cftun  so  poetical- 


38  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

Martyr ;  and  there,  for  the  space  of  seven  days,  they 
tarried,  praising  God.  They  constructed  a  monument, 
glittering  with  gold  and  precious  stones,  and  here,  with 
the  greatest  reverence,  placed  the  body  of  their  Saint. 
Even  from  the  very  monument,  ao  sweet  an  odour  of 
sanctity  broke  forth,  that  it  seemed  to  be  entirely  filled 
with  the  most  fragrant  aroma.  He  died  about  the  year  of 
our  Lord  CCCXXVUI.  (2) 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  Eufemian  iB  any  man  of  this  world  who 
hath  a  darling  eon,  for  whose  advantage  he  labours  day 
and  night.  He  obtains  a  wife  lor  him,  that  is,  the  vanity 
of  the  world,  which  he  delights  in  as  in  a  bride  ;  nay,  the 
world's  vanities  are  often  more  to  a  man  than  the  most 
virtuous  wife — for  life  is  sacrificed  to  the  one,  but,  alas ! 
how  seldom  to  the  other  !  The  mother  is  the  world  itself, 
which  greatly  values  her  worldly-minded  children.  But 
the  good  son,  like  the  blessed  Alexius,  is  more  studious  to 
please  God  than  his  parents,  remembering  that  it  is  said, 
"  He  who  forsakes  land  or  houses,  or  father,  or  mother, 
or  wife,  for  my  sake,  shall  receive  an  hundredfold,  and 
possess  eternal  life."  Alexius  enters  a  ship,  &c.  The 
ship  is  our  holy  Church,  by  which  we  ought  to  enter,  if 
we  would  obtain  everlasting  happiness.  We  must  like- 
wise lay  aside  gorgeous  raiment — that  is,  the  pomps  of 
world ;  and  associate  with  the  poor — that  is,  the  poor  in 
spirit.  The  warden,  who  conducted  him  into  the  church, 
is  a  prudent  confessor,  whoso  duty  it  is  to  instruct  the 
sinner,  and  lead  him  to  a  knowledge  of  the  sacred  Scrip- 
tures, by  which  the  soul  may  pass  unharmed  to  imroor 
tality.  But  sometimes  tempests  arise,  and  hurry  a  man 
to  his  own.  country,  as  it  happened  to  Alexius.  The 
temptations  of  the  Evil  One  are  symbolized  by  these 
tempests,  which  turn  the  voyager  from  his  settled  course, 
and  prevent  a  life  of  goodness.  If,  therefore,  you  feel  that 
you  are  subject  to  certain  temptations,  follow  the  example 
of  the  holy  Alexius.  Assume  the  dress  of  a  pilgrim — -that 
is,  take  the  qualities  necessary  for  the  pilgrimage  of  this 
life,  and  disguise  yourself  from  your  carnal  and  worldly 


OF  AN   EXEMPLARY    LIFE. 

fatter,  and  become  a  man  of  God.  But  if  it  fall  out  that, 
when,  such  a  one  aspires  to  a  life  of  penitence,  hia  parent^ 
lament,  and  decry  their  child's  contempt  of  tho  world,  anil 
hia  voluntary  choice  of  poverty  for  the  love  of  God — still, 
it  ie  safer  to  displease  them  than  Heaven.  Obtain,  there- 
fore, a  fair  pier:!1  of  paper,  which   is  a  g 1  conscience,  on 

which  inscribe  your  life  ;  aud  then,  the  High  Priest  with 
the  emperors  will  draw  near — that  ie,  Cbrist  with  a  mul- 
titude of  angels— and  convey  your  soul  to  the  church  of 
St.  Boniface — that  is,  to  eternal  life,  where  all  sanctity  (or 
joy)  abounds. 


OF  AN   EXEMPLARY    LIFE. 

We  read  of  a  certain  Roman  onipcror,  who  built  a  mag- 
nificent palace.  In  digging  the  foundation,  the  workmen 
discovered  a  golden  sarcophagus,  ornamented  with  thrcti 
circlets,  on  which  were  inscribed,  "  I  have  expended — 1 
hive  given — I  have  kept— I  have  possessed — I  do  possess 
—I  wive  lost — I  am  punished.  What  T  formerly  expended. 
1  have  ;  what  I  gave  away,  I  have."  *  Tho  emperor,  on 
«eeing  this,  called  to  him  the  nobles  of  his  empire,  and 
»id,  "Go,  and  consider  among  ye  what  this  superscrip- 
tion signifies."  The  nohlrmen  replied,  "  Sire,  the  meaning 
B,  that  an  emperor,  who  reigned  before  your  majesty, 
wished  to  leave  an  example  for  tho  imitation  of  his  suc- 

*  From    hence,    in    nil    probability,    )!..iliert    HyrkeB   derived    the 
"t   epitaph,   which   is  to    bo    found,  according   to   Gough,   in 
"'  ir  church,  "  new  cat"  upon  hia  tomb  in  Roman  capitals: — 
''Howo:  Howe:  whoishearo: 
I,  Robin  of  DouchsUt,  and  Mitrsisiret  my  fonre. 
Tlial  I  spent,  that  I  had: 
Tiiat  I  gave,  that  I  have ; 
That  I  left,  that  I  lost. 

a.d.  1579. 
Quod  Robert  ub  Byrkos, 
who  iu  thia  worlde 
did  reygne  thre 
«core  yeares  and  seaven, 
and  yet  lived  not  onu." 


40  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

cessors.  He  therefore  wrote,  '  I  have  expended, ' — that  is, 
my  life  ;  judging  some,  admonishing  others,  and  governing 
to  the  best  of  my  ability.  '  I  have  given,' — that  is, 
equipments  to  my  .soldiers,  and  supplies  to  the  needy;  to 
every  one  according  to  his  desert.  '  I  have  kept,' — that  ia, 
exact  justice ;  showing  mercy  to  the  indigent,  and  yield- 
ing to  the  labourer  his  hire.  '  I  have  possessed,' — that  is. 
a  generous  and  true  heart ;  recompensing  faithfully  those 
who  have  done  me  service,  and  exhibiting  at  all  times  a 
kind  and  affablo  exterior.  '  I  do  possess,' — that  is,  a.  hand  to 
bestow,  to  protect,  and  to  punish.  '  J  have  lost,' — that  is, 
my  folly  ;  I  have  lost  Ike  friendship  of  my  foes,  and  the 
lascivious  indulgences  of  the  flesh.  '  I  am  punished,' — -that 
is,  in  hell ;  hecauso  I  believed  not  in  one  eternal  God,  and 
put  no  faith  in  the  redemption."  *  *  *  * 

The  emperor  hearing  this,  over  after  regulated  himself 
and  his  subjects  with  greater  wisdom,  and  finished  his  life 
in  peace. 

APPLICATION, 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  any  Christian,  whose  duty 
it  is  to  raise  a  fair  structure — that  is,  a  heart  prepared  for 
the  reception  of  God.  If  he  dig  deep,  led  onward  by 
sincere  contrition  for  past  offences,  ho  will  find  a  golden 
sarcophagus — that  is,  a  mind  gildo.l  with  virtue  and  full 
of  the  divine  grace.  Three  golden  circlets  will  ornament 
it,  and  these  are  faith,  hope,  and  charity.  But  wbat  is 
written  there?  In  the  first  place,  "I  have  expended." 
Tell  me,  my  beloved,  what  havo  you  expended?  The 
good  Christian  may  reply,  "  Body  and  soul  in  the  service 
of  God."  Whosoever  of  you  thus  expends  his  life,  will 
secure  the  rewards  of  enmity.  The  second  legend  saith. 
"I  have  kept."  Tell  me,  my  beloved,  what  have  you 
kept?     The  good  Christian  may  answer,  "  A  broken  and 

*  Tho  story  seems  Letts  to  be  defective.  "What  I  expended,  I 
have;  what  I  gave  away,  I  have,"  iwoiu1»  iv  explanation.  It  insy 
be  filled  up  thu* :  "  Wlml  I  ii]«nilcd.  I  have,"  that  is,  having  ex- 
ponded  my  prnpiTly  with  jinisjnn  ut,  (  hiive  wviv.  <!  various  beueGU 
which  remain  to  me  in  my  pnstority.  '■  What  I  gave  away,  I  have," 
that  is,  my  donations  have  procured  for  me  the  thanks  of  the  poor, 
md  the  blessing  of  heaven. 


OF   A    PERFECT   LIFE. 


41 


contrite  spirit."  The  third  inscription  says,  "  I  have, 
given."  Tell  me,  my  beloved,  what  have  you  given  ?  The 
pood  Christian  may  reply,  "  My  whole  heart  to  God."  El 
lie  de  extent. 


OF   A   PERFECT    LIFE. 

As  emperor  i.<--creed  that  whoever  wished  to  serve  him 
should  obtain  his  wish,  conditionally  that  he  struck  throw 
times  upon  tho  palace  gate,  by  whirl]  tho.se  within  might 
understand  that  he  wished  to  take  service.  Now,  there 
we  a  certain  poor  man  in  the  Roman  empire,  railed  Guide; 
■"to,  on  hearing  the  mode  by  which  admission  to  thu 
eraperor'B  service  was  to  be  attained,  thus  thought—"  I 
sun  a  poor  fellow,  of  low  descent ;  it  is  better  for  nie  to 
«rw  and  acquire  wealth  than  to  live  in  independent  e 
and  Ktarve."  So  he  proceeded  to  the  palace,  and  according 
to  the  edict,  gavo  three  blows  upon  the  gate.  The  porter 
ii!i:]!rli;]j,:ly  opened  it,  and  brought  him  in.  He  was 
iuli-dilur.il  and  made  his  obeisance  to  the  emperor,  who 
said,  "What  seek  you,  my  friend?"  Guido  replied,  "I 
wish  to  serve  your  majesty."  "  And  for  what  office  may 
you  he  lit?"  returned  the  emperor.  "I  can  serve,  witli 
tolerable  expertness,  in  sis  capacities,"  said  Guido.  "  First, 
lean  act  an  body-guard  to  the  prince  ;  1  can  make  his  bod, 
dress  liis  food,  and  wash  his  feet.  Secondly.  I  can  watch 
"■hen  others  sleep,  and  sleep  when  others  watch.  Thirdly. 
I  can  drink  good  drink,  and  tell  whether  it  be  good  or 
not.  Fourthly,  I  can  invite  company  to  a,  festival  for 
my  Barter's  honour.  Fifthly,  I  can  make  a  fire  withoul 
the  least  smoke,  which  will  warm  all  that  approach  it. 
Sixthly,  I  can  teach  people  the  way  to  tho  Holy  Land, 
from  «hence  they  will  return  in  excellent  health."  "  By 
my  faith,"  said  the  emperor,  "  these  are  lino  matters,  and 
B"dl  bo  useful  on  many  occasions.  Thou  shalt  stay  with 
■""i  and  sane  me  first  as  body-guard.    In  each  department 


42  QESTA   ROMANORUM. 

thou  shalt  remain  a  full  year."  Guido  expressed  himself 
content ;  and  every  night  made  ready  the  emperor's  bed, 
washed  the  linen,  and  occasionally  changed  it.  Then  he 
lay  down  at  the  entrance  of  the  chamber,  armed  at  all 
points.  He  likewise  provided  a  dog,  whoso  barking 
might  warn  him  of  any  danger.  Once  every  week  •  he 
washed  the  em [ terror'»  feet,  and  in  all  respects  ministered  so 
faithfully  and  manfully,  that  not  the  least  fault  was 
found  with  him.  The  emperor,  therefore,  was  well 
pleased;  and  at  the  expiration  of  the  year  made  him 
his  seneschal,  preparatory  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  second 
office,  which  was  to  watch.  Then  Guido  commenced  his 
operations ;  and  during  the  whole  summer  collected  a 
variety  of  stores,  and  watched  with  great  assiduity  the 
fittest  opportunities.  So  that  on  the  approach  of  winter, 
when  others,  who  had  wasted  the  proper  season,  began  to 
labour  and  lay  up,  he  touk  his  ease,  and  thus  uompleteel 
the  service  of  the  second  year.  When  the  emperor  per- 
ceived his  diligence  and  sagacity,  he  called  to  him  his 
chief  butler,  and  said,  "  Friend,  put  into  my  cup  some  of 
the  best  wine,  mingled  with  musl  and  viuegar.-f  and  give 
it  to  Guido  to  taste;  for  that  is  his  third  ministry,  namely, 
to  taste  good  drink,  and  pronounce  upon  its  qualities." 
The  butler  did  as  he  was  commanded.  When  Guido  had 
tasted,  he  said,  "  It  was  good ;  it  is  good ;  it  will  be  good. 
That  is,  the  must  which  is  new  will  be  good  when  it  is 
older;  the  old  wine  is  good,  at  present;  and  the  vinegar 
was  good  formerly."  When  the  emperor  saw  that  he  had 
such  a  sound  judgment  of  the  beverage,  he  said,  "  Go  now 
through  town  and  country,  and  invite  all  ray  friends  to  a 
festival ;  for  Christmas  is  at  hand :  herein  shall  consist 

*  [Stmi.-1  omni  ebdomnda.  Mr. 
night/'  being  Biiinirently  -shrieked  u 
emperor  of  soap  mid  water. — Ed.] 

t  Mwt  is  new  wine.  "  Viuum  igitur  mmta,  quomodo  Cat" 
loquitur,  idem  est,  qui*)  nm-nm.  wvc  olr-o!  fuicrxiSio!.  Nonius.:  Mufum, 
rum  solum  vinuiu,  veiiini  iimvllmii  'ii<i('-|i]i-l  ct-t.  recti)  dicitux." 

Vinegar,  Lat.  aeetiun.  "Optimum  el  luu'hti-riimim  aoetum  ■ 
Romania  hubelmlor  .-l-: ^ y [ . 1 1 1 1 1 1 ,  qiicn)  nfriiiieniiiiii  quidem  haWat 
multam,  fed  mi  Mum  turin-n  diitcediiu'  iilii|iiii,  rju:c  ii*-|.'.-ntiit,-m  tulkrii. 
nee  horrorem  jjiiBliitsdi  iiijiet-ret  " — t'ucciul.  The  vim-gar  epoif.uoi 
in  the  text  wiw  probably  sweetened. 


OF   A    PERFECT   LIFE.  48 

your  fourth  ministry."  Guido  instantly  set  out ;  but 
instead  of  executing  the  orders  he  had  received,  he  invitvd 
none  but  the  emperor's  enemies  ;  thus,  on  Christmas  Eve, 
his  court  was  filled  with  them.  Wheu  he  observed  this, 
be  was  exceedingly  perturbed,  and  calling  Guido  to  him, 
said,  "How  is  this?  Did  you  not  say  that  you  knew 
what  men  to  ask  to  my  table?"  H*  answered,  "Surely, 
ray  Lord."  "And  said  I  not,"  returned  the  emperor,  verv 
much  provoked,  "  said  I  not  that  thou  wert  to  invite  my 
frianU?  How  comes  it  that  thou  hast  assembled  only  my 
enemies?"  "My  Lord,"  replied  Guido,  "suffer  me  to 
speak.  At  all  seasons,  and  at  .'ill  hours,  your  friends  may 
visit  you,  and  they  are  received  with  pleasure ;  but  it  is 
nut  bo  with  your  enemies.  Fr<>m  which  reflection  I  per- 
suaded myself  that  a  conciliating  lw?haviour  and  a  good 
dinner  would  convert  your  inveterate  enemies  into  warm 
friends."  This  was  really  the  case ;  before  the  feast  con- 
cluded they  all  became  cordial  partisans,  and  as  long  as 
they  lived  remained  faithful  to  their  sovereign.  The 
emperor,  therefore,  was  much  delighted,  and  cried, 
'"Blessed  be  God,  my  enemies  are  now  my  friends t 
Execute  thy  fifth  ministry,  and  make  both  for  them  and 
me  a  fire  that  shall  burn  without  smoke."  Guido  replied, 
''It  shsill  be  done  immediately,"  and  he  thus  performed 
his  promise.  In  the  heat  of  summer,  he  dried  a  quantity 
of  green  wood  in  the  sun  :  having  done  this,  he  mode  a 
tire  with  it  that  blazed  and  sparkled,  but  threw  out  no 
smulte;  so  that  the  emperor  and  his  friends  wanned  them- 
selves without  inconvenience.  He  was  now  directed  to 
perform  his  last  service,  and  promised  great  honours  and 
wealth  on  completing  it  also,  equally  to  the  satisfaction  of 
nia  master.  "  My  Lord,"  said  Guido,  "  whoever  would 
travel  to  the  Holy  Land  must  follow  me  to  the  seaside." 
Acft.rJitjgly.  proclamation  being  made,  men,  women,  and 
children  in  immense  crowds  hastened  after  him.  When 
'hiy  arrived  at  the  appointed  place,  Guido  said,  "  My 
Wends,  do  you  observe  in  the  sea  the  same  things  which 
I  do?"  They  answered,  "  We  know  not  that."  "  Then," 
unturned  he,  "  do  you  perceive  in  the  midst  of  the  waves 
*&  immense  rock?  Lift  up  your  eyes  and  look."  They 
ttplied,  "  Master,  we  see  it  well  enough,  but  do  not  under- 


.  under- 


stand  why  you  ask  us."  "  Know,"  said  he,  "  that  in  this 
rock  there  is  a  sort  of  bird  continually  sitting  on  her  nest, 
in  which  are  seven  eggs.  While  she  is  thus  employed 
the  sea  is  tranquil ;  but  if  she  happen  to  quit  her  nest, 
storm  and  tempest  immediately  succeed;  insomuch  that 
they  who  would  venture  upon  tho  ocean  are  certain  to  be 
cast  away.  On  the  other  hand,  as  long  as  she  sils  upon 
the  eggs,  whoovor  goes  to  sea  will  go  and  return  in 
safety."  "  But,"  said  they,  "  how  shall  we  ascertain 
when  the  bird  is  on  her  nest,  and  when  she  is  not?" 
He  replied,  "  She  never  quits  her  nest  except  on  some 
particular  emergency.  For  there  is  another  bird,  ex- 
ceedingly hostile  to  her,  and  labouring  day  and  night  to 
defile  her  nest  and  break  the  eggs.  Now,  the  bird  of  the 
nest,  when  she  sees  her  eggs  broken  and  her  nest  fouled, 
instantly  flies  nwuy  possessed  with  the  greatest  grief; 
then  the  sea  rages,  rind  the  winds  become  very  boisterous. 
At  that  time  you  ought  especially  to  avoid  putting  out  of 
port."  Tho  people  made  answer,  "  But,  master,  what 
remedy  is  there  for  this?  How  shall  we  prevent  the 
unfriendly  bird  from  approaching  the  other  s  nest,  and 
bo  pass  safely  over  the  waters?"  "There  is  nothing," 
returned  Guido,  "which  this  unfriendly  bird  so  much 
abhors  as  the  blood  of  a  lamb.  Sprinkle,  therefore,  with 
this  blood  tho  inside  and  tho  outside  of  the  nest,  and  as 
long  as  one  single  drop  remains  it  will  never  approach 
it :  the  bird  of  the  nest  will  sit ;  tho  sea  will  continue 
calm ;  and  you  will  pass  and  repass  with  perfect  safety." 
When  they  bad  heard  this,  they  ttiok  the  blood  of  the 
lamb,  and  sprinkled  it  as  he  had  said.  They  then  passed 
securely  to  tho  Holy  Land ;  and  the  emperor,  seeing 
that  Guido  had  fulfilled  every  ministry  with  wisdom, 
promoted  him  to  a  great  military  command,  aDd  bestowed 


■ 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  heavenly  Father,  who 
decreed   that  whosoever  struck   thrice   upon   the  gate— 
There  are  Bevtml  popular  etnriea  not  unlike  tho  present,  but 
they  «ill  probably  occur  to  the  memory  of  most  readers. 


OF   VENIAL  SIN. 

thai  ia,  who  prayed,  fasted,  and  gave  alms — should  become 
a  soldier  of  the  Church  militant,  and  finally  attain  ever- 
lasting life.  Guido  ia  any  poor  man,  who  in  baptism 
begins  his  ministry.  The  first  office  is  to  serve  Christ, 
and  prepare  the  heart  for  virtue.  The  second  is  to  watch; 
"  Fur  ye  know  not  at  what  hour  the  Son  of  Man  oometh." 
The  I  ami,  to  tasto  of  penitence;  which  was  good  to  the 
saints  who  live  eternally  in  heaven  ;  and  it  t>  good,  because 
it  brings  us  to  that  blessed  situation.  Lastly,  it  will  be 
good,  when  the  resurrection  is  come,  and  we  are  summoned 
to  receive  a  crown  of  glory.  The  fourth  ministry  is  to 
invite  Christ's  enemies  to  become  His  friends,  and  inherit 
eternal  life:  for  He  "came  not  to  call  the  righteous,  but 
sinners  to  repentance."  The  fifth  is  to  light  the  fire  of 
charity,  which  shall  burn  frco  from  all  impure  and  im- 
proper feelings.  The  sixth,  to  teach  the  way  to  the 
Holy  Land— that  is,  to  heaven.  Tho  sea,  over  which  men 
must  be  conveyed,  ia  the  world.  The  rock,  in  the  midst 
of  it,  is  the  human  form,  or  rather  the  heart,  on  which  a 
bin!  cowers ;  that  is,  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  seven  eggs 
we  seven  gilts  ui'  the  Spirit.  If  tho  Spirit  leave  us  the 
'i'Vil  defiles  the  nest,  and  destroys  those  good  gifts.  The 
Huodof  the  lamb  ia  Clirist'.s  blood,  shed  for  our  salvation, 
with  which  wo  ought  ever  to  be  sprinkled  :  that  is,  ever 
to  retain  it  in  memory.* 

'  There  19  a  curious  defence  of  Iran  substantia  I  inn  in  this  moral ; 
•nil  wc  may  admire  its  ingenuity  while  wq  reprobate  the  absurd, 
'I'vtriiH.  it  is  designed  to  advocate. 

"You  aak,"  says  the  writer  of  the  Get!,  "  bj  what  means  bread 
"O-J  ha  converted  into  the  real  body  of  Christ.  Observe,  how  tho 
WHhar  tioiiriBhes  her  child.  If  alio  lutiiirr  ami  iMeit  milk,  [lie  infant, 
"kprivpl  of  its  prMixT  sufttiiiuii:^,  !.i;ii,'rr,-ii'-..  and  dies.      But  if,  hi  her 

rtei  eitremity  she  drink  but  [lie  lees  of  wine,  those  lees,  taken 
.  the  mouth,  l*.-coii)e  changed  into  hWnl.  ami  supply  milk  an.) 
nutrime.-il  to  the  child.  If  nature,  then,  exert  ao  mueh  power  over 
r|*'  wimnn,  how  much  more  «hull  the  virtue  of  the  sacramental  rite, 
■Wtitl!.'  bv  the  mouth  of  the  pri.-.-t  ttliat  is,  bv  th.'  wurds  of  Christ 
-":  '-'■'-■'ii.-ij;  i'rom  Ilia  mouth),  convert  bread  into  Ilesh,  and  wine  into 


'] 


GESTA    ROMANOROM. 


TALE    XVIII. 

OF    VENIAL   SIN. 


A  certain  soldier,  called  Julian,  unwittingly  tilled  his 
parents.*  For  being  of  noble  birth,  and  addicted,  an 
youth  frequently  is,  to  the  sports  of  the  field,  a  stag 
which  lie  hotly  pursued  suddenly  turned  round  and 
addressed  him :  "  Thou  who  pursuewt  mc  so  fiercely  shalt 
be  the  destruction  of  thy  parents."  These  words  greatly 
alarmed  Julian,  who  feared  their  accomplishment  even 
while  he  disavowed  the  probability.  Leaving,  therefore, 
his  amusement,  he  went  privately  into  a  distant  country 
and  enrolled  himself  in  tho  bands  of  a  certain  chieftain. 
His  conduct,  as  well  in  war  as  in  peace,  merited  bo  highly 
from  the  prince  lie  nerved,  that  lie  created  him  a  knight, 
and  gave  him  the  widow  of  a  castellanf  i"  marriage, 
with  her  castle  as  a  dowry. 

All  this  while,  the  parents  of  Julian  bewailed  the 
departure  of  their  son,  and  diligently  sought  for  him  in 
all  places.  At  length  they  arrived  at  the  castle,  and  in 
Julian's  absence  were  introduced  to  his  wife,  who  asked 
them  what  they  were.  They  communicated  without 
reserve  the  occasion  of  their  search,  and  their  sorrow  for 
an  only  child.  Convinced  by  this  explanation  that  they 
were  her  husband's  parents  (for  he  had  often  conversed 
with  her  about  them,  and  detailed  the  strange  occurrence 
which  induced  hiiii  to  tlec  liis  country),  she  received  them 
very  kindly;  and  in  consideration  of  the  love  she  bore 
her  husband,  put  them  into  her  own  bed,  and  commanded 
another  to  he  prepared  elsewhere  for  herself.  Now,  early 
in  the  morning,  the  lady  castellan  went  to  her  devotions. 
In  the  mean  time  Julian  returning  home,  hastened,  ac- 
cording to  custom,  to  the  chamber  of  his  wife,  imagining 
that  she  had  not  yet  risen.      Fearful  of  awaking  her,  ha 

•  [This  story  in  rrrniLikdlli:  for  its  resemblance  in  several  reapsctt 
tn  that  of  CEdipus,  to  whirl)  legend  the  Greek  dramatists  wen 
indebted  for  prune  il  their  iinest.  e"iireplimis,— Ed.] 

t  The  castellan  was  a  military  guardian  of  a  castle  and  of  th* 
dignity  as  the  ijacount.    (See  Du  Cange.) 


OF    VENIAL   SIN.  \~ 

loftly  entered  the  apartment,  and  perceiving  two  person! 
in  ted,  instantly  concluded  that  his  wife  wan  disloyal. 
Without  a  moment's  pause,  he  unsheathed  his  sabre,  and 
«lew  both.  Then  he  hurried  from  the  chamber,  and  acci- 
liantally  took  the  direction  in  which  the  church  lay,  and 
by  which  hia  wife  had  proceeded  not  long  before.  On  the 
threshold  of  the  sacred  building  be  distinguished  her,  and 
struck  with  the  utmost  amazement,  inquired  whom  they 
were  that  had  taken  possession  of  his  bed.  She  replied 
that  they  were  his  parents ;  who,  after  long  and  wearisome 
search  in  pursuit  of  him,  arrived  at  his  castle  the  last 
evening.  The  intelligence  was  as  a  thunderWt  to 
Julian;  and  unable  to  contain  himself  he  burst  into  an 
agiray  of  tears.  "Oh!  "  he  exclaimed.  "  lives  there  in  the 
world  so  forlorn  a  wretch  as  I  am?  This  accursed  hand 
hu  murdered  my  parents,  and  fulfilled  the  horrible  predic- 
tion which  I  have  struggled  to  avoid.  Dearest  wife, 
pardon  my  fatal  suspicions,  and  receive  my  last  farewell  : 
for  never  will  I  know  rest,  until  I  am  satisfied  that  God 
liiia  forgiven  me,"  His  wife  answered,  "Wilt  thou  aban- 
i'.'ii  riii-  then,  my  iK-luved,  and  leave  me  alone  and  widowed? 
No— I  have  been  the  participator  of  thy  happiness,  and 
now  will  participate  thy  grief."  Julian  opposed  not,  and 
they  departed  together  towards  a  large  river,  that  flowed 
it  no  great  distance,  and  whore  many  had  perished.  In 
'tip  place  thoy  built  and  endowed  a  hospital,  where  they 
abode  in  the  truest  contrition  of  heart.  They  always 
ferried  over  those  who  wished  to  cross  the  river,  and 
received  great  numbers  of  poor  people  within  the  place. 
Many  years  glided  by,  and,  at  last,  on  a  very  cold  night, 
about  the  raid-hour,  as  Julian  slept,  overpowered  with 
fatigue,  a  lamentable  voice  seemed  to  call  his  name,  and 
tag  him  in  dolorous  accents  to  take  the  speaker  across  the 
river.  He  instantly  got  up,  and  found  a  man  covered 
with  the  leprosy,  perishing  for  very  cold.  He  brought 
him  into  the  house,  and  lighted  a  fire  to  warm  him;  but 
i*  could  not  be  made  warm.  That  he  might  omit  no 
possible  means  of  cherishing  the  leper,  he  carried  him  into 
hbjnwn  bed,  and  endeavoured  by  the  heat  of  bis  body  to 
restore  him.  After  a  while,  he  whu  seemed  sick,  and  cold, 
and  leprous,  apj>eared  enveloped  in  an  immortal  splendour: 


+8  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

and  waving  his  light  wings,  seemed  ready  to  mount  up 
into  heavon.  Turning  a  look  of  the  utmost  benignity 
upon  his  wondering  host,  he  said,  "Julian,  the  Lord  hath 
sent  iuo  to  thee,  to  announce  the  acceptance  of  thy  contri- 
tion. Before  long  both  thou  and  thy  partner  will  sleep  in 
the  Lord."  So  saying,  the  angelic  mustm-n^er  disappeared. 
Julian  and  hia  wife,  after  a  short  time  fully  occupied  in 
good  works,  died  in  peace.     (3) 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  knight  Julian  is  any  good  Christian 
prelate,  who  ought  manfully  to  war  against  the  devil,  the 
world,  and  the  flesh ;  and  to  hunt— that  is,  to  acquire 
souls  for  the  service  of  God.  He  should  flee  from  the 
world,  and  he  will  then  receive  the  lady  castellan  iu 
la arri age — that  is,  divine  grace.  The  parents  are  the 
vanities  of  this  life,  which  pursue  a  man  everywhere: 
thete  parents  must  be  slain  with  the  sabre  of  repentance. 
The  river  is  the  Holy  Scriptures ;  and  the  hospital  by  its 
(tide  is  prayer,  fasting,  and  alms-giving. 


OF   THE   SIN    OF   PRIDE. 

We  read  in  the  Roman  annals  (i.e.  Gesta  Itomanorum)  of 
a  prince  called  Pompey.  He  was  united  to  the  daughter 
of  a  nobleman,  whose  name  was  Ctesar.  It  was  agreed  be- 
tween them  to  bring  the  whole  world  into  subjection  ;  and 
with  this  view  Pompey  gave  instructions  to  his  associate 
to  possess  himself  of  certain  distant  fortresses:  for  the 
Utter  being  a  young  man,  it  became  him  to  be  moat  active. 
In  the  mean  while,  Pompey,  as  the  chief  person  of  the 
commonwealth,  endeavoured  to  guard  it  against  tho 
machinatious  of  their  enemios ;  and  appointed  a  particular 
day  for  the  return  of  Cassar — in  failure  of  which,  he  was 
to   be  deprived  of  his  citizenship  for  ever.*     Five  years 


:»' 


OF   THE   SIN   OF   PltlDE.  49 

were  allowed  him ;  and  Cicsar,  assembling  a  large  army, 
marched  rapidly  into  the  country  he  was  about  to  attack. 
But  the  inhabitants  being  warlike,  he  was  unable  to 
subdue  them  in  the  specified  time.  Curing,  therefore,  to 
[fa J  Porapey  leGB  than  to  relinquish  hia  conquests,  he 
continued  abroad  eonsiiVriihly  beyond  the-  fivo  years;  and 
was  consequently  banished  the  empire.  When  Cassar  had 
concluded  the  campaign  he  turned  towards  Home,  march- 
ing with  his  forces  across  a  river,  distinguished  by  the 
name  of  Rubicon.  Here  a  phantom  of  immense  stature, 
standing  in  the  middle  of  the  water,  opposed  his  passage. 
It  said,  "  Ctesar,  if  your  purpose  be  the  welfare  of  the 
slate — pass  on;  but  if  not,  beware  how  you  advance 
«cother  step."  Cfcsar  replied,  "  I  have  long  fonght  for, 
lad  am  still  prepared  to  undergo  every  hardship  in 
defence  of  Rome ;  of  which  I  take  the  gods  whom  1 
worship  to  be  my  witnesses."  Aa  he  said  this,  the 
panntom  vanished.  Caesar  then  spurred  his  war-horse 
and  crossed  the  river ;  but  having  effected  his  paaaage,  be 
paused  on  the  opposite  bank : — "  I  have  rashly  promised 
|*acO  said  he;  "for  in  this  case,  I  must  relinquish  my 
just  right."  From  that  hour  he  pursued  Pompey  with  the 
utmost  virulence,  even  to  the  death ;  and  was  himself 
'bin  afterwards  by  a  hand  of  conspirators.* 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  by  Pompey  understand  the  Creator  of  all 
things ;  Cassar  signifies  Adam,  who  was  the  first  man. 
Hia  daughter  is  the  soul,  betrothed  to  God.     Adam  was 

"•»>  »  «overeign  Prince  of  Borne  is  only  one  of  the  strange  delusion* 
•kith  eiiated  during  the  period  tome  what  loosely  known  as  "the 
KHdfc  Age^'-Ec] 

'  This  story  is  evidently  built  upon  a  confused  tradition  of  Caesar 
"id  Pompey.  "  It  was  impossible,  nays  Warton,  "  that  the  Roman 
History  cuuld  pasa  tbrougli  the  dark  ages  without  beinj;  infected 
•ith  many  romantic  corruptions.  Indeed,  the  Roman  was  almost 
lie  only  ancient  history  which  the  readers  of  those  ages  knew  :  and 
*lut  related  even  to  Pagan  Rome,  the  parent  of  the  modern  papal 
Wlropolii  of  Christianity,  wis  regnrdt'd  uitli  a  -iip.  r.-liuous  venera- 
•w»  and  often  mBjrniliBd  with  miraculous  additions.'*— Ww.  on  tlia 
'"Ma  iiwannomin,  vol.  i.  p.  el. 


I 


50  OESTA  ROMANOKOM. 

placed  in  Paradise  to  cultivate  and  to  guard  it ;  but  not 
fulfilling  the  ci md it.ii in  imposed  ufion  him,  liko  Casaar,  he 
was  expollod  hie  native  country.  The  Rubicon  is  baptism, 
by  which  mankind  re-enters  a  state  of  blessedness. 


OF   TRIBULATION    AND   ANGUISH. 

In  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Conrad,  there  lived  a  certain 
count,  called  Leopold,  who  for  some  cause,  fearing  the 
indignation  of  his  master,  fled  with  his  wife  into  the 
woods,  and  concealed  himself  in  a  miserable  hovel.  By 
chance  the  emperor  limited  there  ;  and  being  carried  away 
by  the  heat  of  the  chace,  lost  himself  in  the  woods,  and 
was  benighted.  Wandering  about  in  various  directions, 
he  came  at  length  to  tho  cottage  where  the  count  dwelt, 
and  requested  shelter.  Now,  his  hostess  being  at  that  time 
pregnant,  and  near  the  moment  of  her  travail,  prepared, 
though  with  sumo  difficulty,  a  meal,  and  brought  whatever 
be  required.  The  same  night  she  was  delivered  of  a  son. 
While  the  emperor  slept,  a  voice  broke  upon  Ilia  ear, 
which  seemed  to  say,  "  Take,  Take,  Take."  He  arose 
immediately,  and  with  considerable  alarm  said  to  himself, 
•■  What  can  that  voice  mean?  'Take!  Takel  Take!" 
What  am  I  to  take?"  He  reflected  upon  the  singularity 
of  this  for  a  short  space,  and  then  fell  asleep.  But  a 
second  time  the  voice  addressed  him,  crying  out,  "  Restore, 
Restore,  Restore."  He  awoke  in  very  great  sorrow. 
'•  What  is  all  this  ?  "  thought  he.  "  First,  I  was  to  '  Take, 
Take,  Take,'  and  there  is  nothing  for  me  to  take.  Just 
now  the  same  voice  exclaimed,  '  Restore,  Restore,  Restore,' 
and  what  can  I  restore  when  I  have  taken  nothing?" 
Unable  to  explain  the  mystery,  he  again  slept;  and  the 
third  time  the  voice  spoke.  *'  Fly,  Fly,  Fly,"  it  said, 
■■  for  a  child  is  now  born,  who  Bhatl  become  thy  son-in- 
law."  Those  words  created  great  perplexity  in  the  em- 
peror ;  and  getting  up  very   early   in   tho    morning,    be 


.itlBULATION    AND   ANGUISH.  51 

«wight  out  two  of  his  squiros,  and  said,  "Go  and  force 
away  that  child  from  its  mother ;  cleave  it  in  twain,  and 
briugits  heart  to  me."  The  terrified  squires  obeyed,  and 
snatched  away  the  child  as  it  hung  at  its  mother's  broawt. 
But  obaerving  its  very  great  beauty,  they  were  moved 
to  compassion,  and  placed  it  upon  the  branch  of  a  tree,  to 
rescue  it  from  the  wild  beasts  ;  and  then  killing  a  hare,. 
they  conveyed  its  heart  In  the  emperor.*  Soon  after  this, 
a  duke  travelling  in  the  forest,  passed  by,  and  hearing  the 
cry  (if  an  infant,  sea rehed  about ;  iind  discovering  it,  placed 
it,  unknown  to  any  one,  in  the  folds  of  his  garment. 
Having  no  child  himself,  he  conveyed  it  to  his  wife,  bade 
her  nourish  itas  their  own,  and  gave  it  the  name  of  Floury. 
The  boy  grew  up,  handsome  in  person  and  oxtremely 
doqnent;  so  that  he  became  a  general  favourite.  Now, 
the  emperor,  romarking  the  extraordinary  quickness  of  the 
youth,  desired  his  foster-father  to  send  him  to  court : 
where  he  resided  a  length  of  time.  But  the  great  estima- 
tion in  which  he  was  held  by  all  ranks  of  people,  caused 
the  emperor  to  repent  what  he  had  done ;  and  to  fear  lest 
he  should  aspire  to  the  throne,  or  probably  be  the  nami 
whom,  as  the  child,  he  had  commanded  his  squires  hi 
destroy.  Wishing  to  secure  himself  fYnm  every  [lossitiU 
turn  of  fortune,  he  wrote  a  letter  with  his  own  hand  to  the 
queen  to  the  following  purport:  "I  command  you, on  pain 
of  death,  as  soon  as  thiK  letter  reaches  you,  to  put  the 
young  man  to  death."  When  it  was  completed,  he  went 
by  some  accident  into  a  church,  and  seating  himself  upon 
»  bench,  fell  asleep.  The  letter  had  been  enclosed  in  a 
puree,  which  hung  loosely  from  his  girdle  ;  and  a  certain 
priest  of  the  place,  impelled  by  an  ungovernable  curiosity  . 
opened  the  purse  and  read  the  purposed  wickedness  Filled 
with  horror  and  indignation,  he  cunningly  erased  the 
pMeage  commanding  the  youth's  death,  and  wrote  in 
«lead,  "  Give  liiin  our  daughter  in  marriage."  The  writing 
"M  conveyed  to  the  queen,  who  iiiiding  the  emperor'» 
signature,  ami  the  impression  of  the  royal  signet,  called 
together  the  princes  of  the  empire,  and  celebrated  then 

•  [This  eirfru instance  in  a  part  of  Mivenil  well-known  »U>tir.r. 
See,  in  particular,  Lockout's  gpauilh  ISallada,  "  Tb«  Eneap*  td 
«■jfiro.."-EB.] 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


miptials    with    great    pomp.     When    this    ' 

cafced  to  the  emperor  he  waa  greatly  afflicted,  but  when  he 

heard  thewholo  chain  of  miraculous  interposition  from  the 

two  squires,  the  duke,  and  the  priest,  he  saw  that  he  must 

resign  himself  to  the  dispensations  of  God.    And,  therefore, 

sending  for  the  young  man,  he  confirmed  his  1 

and  appointed  him  heir  to  his  kingdon 


APPLICATION. 


i  marriage, 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God  the  Father;  who. 
angry  with  our  first  parents,  drove  them  from  Paradise 
into  the  woods,  and  desolate  places  of  life.  The  child  who 
was  born  is  Jesus  Christ,  whom  many  persecute ;  but  who 
will  finally  triumph  over  all  His  enemies.  The  squires 
are  the  divine  power  and  grace  operating  upon  the  heart. 
The  child  is  placed  in  a  tree — that  is,  in  the  Church ;  and 
the  duke,  who  preserved  it,  is  any  good  prolate.  The 
slain  hare  is  our  carnal  affections,  which  ought  to  be 
destroyed.  The  letter  which  the  emperor  wrote  with  his 
own  hand  is  every  evil  imagination  which  possesses  the 
heart.  For  then  Christ  is  in  danger  of  being  destroyed. 
The  priest  who  preserved  the  youth  is  any  discreet 
minister,  who  by  means  of  the  Sacred  Writings  mollifies 
the  asperities  of  the  human  soul,  and  betioths  it  to  Heaven. 

*  "This  story  is  told  by  Caitou  in  the  Golden  Legend*,  under 
tiio  life  of  Pelugian  the  Pope,  entitled  '  Here  foloiccth  thf.  lyf  of  Sag*! 
Celagyen  thej>t'i>i',  villi  mami  vtl-  ■■■  lajMnrii,.-  ami  tji-:tij.<  of  !!*■  Lombarda, 
ami  of  Mnchvuirte,  tcith  other  rrmiijrh-s.'  Tin'  Cestu  l.oiigobadortim 
are  fertile  in  legendary  matter,  ami  furnished  Jacobus  de  Yorajrine, 
Cailon's  original,  with  many  marvellous  histories.  Caxtoo,  from  the 
yetlii  of  tht  Lombardis,  gives  a  wonderful  account  of  a  pestilence  ia 
Italy,  under  the  reigo  of  king  Gilbert."— Warton,  Ths  GoLDIS 
Legende  enters  somewhat  into  the  life  of  the  Emperor  Henry  after 
hcj  came  to  the  throne.  Amongst  other  matters,  he  "  put  out  of  hi" 
eonntrae  all  tin-  jiisiU-r;  ;i:ni  jjava  to  poor  people  all  y1  was 
be  given  to  mynstrellos." — Fol.  occlliL 


Uf  OVERREACHING  AND   CONSPIRACY. 


TALE     XXI. 


Justin  records  that  the  Lacedaemonians  conspired  against, 
their  king;  and  prevailing,  banished  liini.  It,  happened 
fiat  a  king  of  the  Persians  plotted  the  destruction  of  the 
same  state,  and  prepared  to  besiege  Laceda-mon  with  a 
Urge  army.  Tho  exile,  though  smarting  beneath  the 
wrongs  accumulated  on  him  by  his  own  subjects,  could  net 
hut  liave  regard  fur  the  land  of  his  nativity.  Having  ascer- 
tained, therefore,  the  hostile  designs  uf  the  lYridiin  monarch 
against  the  Lacedivmonians.  lie  reflected  by  what  means 
he  might  securely  forewarn  them  of  the  impending  dan- 
ger. Accordingly,  taking  up  his  tablets,  he  communicated 
n  iKseoTOry,  and  explained  how  they  might  best  resist 
ind  defeat  their  enemies. 

When  he  had  written,  he  enveloped  the  whole  in  wax. 
and  finding  a  trustworthy  messenger,  despatched  him  to 
the  chiefk  of  the  state.  On  inspection  of  the  tablets,  no 
writing  could  be  distinguished;  for  tho  entire  surface  of 
the  wax  discovered  not  the  slightest  impression.  This 
laterally  gave  rise  to  much  discussion,  and  each  delivered 
In-  opinion  as  to  the  intent  and  further  disposal  of  the 
Ublets.  But  the  mystery  none  of  them  could  unravel. 
Now,  it  chanced  that  a  sister  of  the  Lacedaemonian  king, 
understanding  their  perplexity,  requested  permission  to 
inspect  them.  Her  desire  was  admitted  ;  she  commenced 
»  minute  investigation,  and  assisted  by  that  peculiar 
shrewdness  which  women  frequently  display  in  emer- 
gencies, raised  the  wax,  and  a  portion  of  the  writing 
MUM  manifest.  She  had  now  a  clue,  and  proceeding 
hi  her  work,  gradually  removed  the  waxen  covering  and 
WJhitad  the  legend  at  full.  The  nobles  of  the  council, 
thus  pre-raonished,  rejoiced  exceedingly;  took  the  neees- 
*wy  steps,  and  secured  themselves  against  the   menaced 


Mp» 


*  [This  story  is  told  by  Herodotui 
■"m  mutilations  tb.au  some  of  the  otl 


at     . . 

MMi    OT  TTM-.n-      V. 


ta1£  yyn 


1-  mn 


*»  4*  bmhML  w  wnHivwitr  of  ineir  farrtu.  < 

be  put  ivtMcuwuiuiw&^L     Ttasu  iim-awM:  aw» 

iiiiiic;i»      and  laae   Urn  «Twill   inr  shnuld   i»   «snsfir 


^■iJi^T  U|| 


*af*aMriM*Uh«« 


■Jt>U_I:I  >  ■>■_■.    ■ 
*     taw  •*•    I 


-.  bavBaAMttg 


OF   SPIRITUAL    MEDICINE. 


TALE    XXIII. 

OF   SPIRITUAL   MEDICINE. 


r  Augustine  relates  that  an  ancient  custom  formerly 
ailed,  in  compliance  with  which  emperors,  after  death, 
«"ere laid  upon  a  funeral  pile  and  burnt;  and  their  ashes 
deported  in  n  certain  lofty  place.  lint  it  happened  that 
one  of  them  died  whose  heart  resisted  the  impression  of 
fire.  This  circumstance  created  the  utmost  astonishment. 
«id  all  the  rhetoricians,  and  other  wise  men  of  every 
inwince,  «-ere  summoned  to  one  place.  The  question  was 
dim  proposed  to  them,  and  they  thus  answered:  "The 
■r  died  by  poison,  and  through  the  influence  of  the 
venom  his  heart  cannot  he  consumed."  When  this 
I  understood,  they  drew  the  heart  from  the  fire,  and 
d  it  with  theriaque*  and  immediately  the  poison  was 
«peifed.  The  heart,  being  returned  to  the  flames,  was 
•wn  reduced  to  ashes. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  men  are  thus  in  a  spiritual  sense.  The 
heart  is  impoisoned,  and  then  the  fire  of  tho  Holy  Ghost 
«ill  not  touch  it.  The  theriaque  is  repentance,  which 
removes  all  transgressions. 


TALE    XXIV. 

OF   THE    SUGGESTIONS    OF   THE   DEVIL. 

There  was  a  celebrated  magician,  who  had  a  vory  beautiful 
garden,  in  which  grew  flowers  of  the  most  fragrant  smell, 
«id fruits  of  the  most  delirious  flavour.  In  short,  nothing 
on  earth   could   exceed   it.      But   he    invariably   refused 

*  Therinque  if*  an  i 
pnd  Tulgo  th/friiiqii:  J 
of  lie  volume. 


»-»■  "  suti  as  were  Lis 
--1-  ~- "*^-'*"er.  their  wonder 
x  -= -Tv.-  -  =red  to  be  allowed 
-1  -  -L— s-rii  this  boon  to  no 
— -  ~  o^i.»r  to  him.     The 

while  they 

of  the 

The  conse- 

'=srfa   asleep, ,  the 

—  *^cri    the   instru- 

:*^aifti  the  foulest 


TT-L     It  supplies 

=ci  -r**n?  obtained, 

^■nz^elves  rich. 

"t^askih?  has  dis- 


■-----:  -- ■       --    --*        -^  -»i  -  iXe  from  the 

■•-■-=.>■*   :_•=  -*^z- -  et  nihil 

■'~~-    -      -"*i^j-»;  - -T  i=:siantes : 

.*-        .:.-■■  ■  '■-         -■--•-       -"«set?—?   et  dat 

---'--       ■-  ■     ■■  ^     -•-.^^Hcr'j:;   manus, 

.  ..    -      ..-:-     -    -  ■**■-      "  ■"     -*k   -^:.^  ^vhil  inve- 

-   -   ■  ■  *-  ■*•*  -  k;.=^:  :-  it.    In 

-     ...:-.-.*  -----  ^^•.■.&it.-*k    Fr«ently 

..■..-•    '---■       -  ■  -■ '         --:-.-*  i?ee*r.  which 

. ,  .    ■■•-  .-    t'-_    :■*-■  -•:    t    :i:ti  :rra:efully, 

----       '---    -■■■  •    -     -    ---^  •■»=.     ^or  and  by 

.  •«.    '.««vn  — £   -**Z.   ----  -^-    ■»>  wl    s*r. 


rfrt  *.W  /i  *  ^~-  *Vi»r  "TTi-iJUr'i'i  i*ftL 


>(/>.  v-y^  «  :»ruvr  ji  :vi  autu^'' 


Gay's  JTjdi^  ed.  1727. 


OF   INGRATITUDE. 


OF   INGRATITUDE. 

-A certain  noble  lady  suffered  many  injuries  from  a  tyran- 
nical king,  who  laid  waste  her  domains.  When  the 
purticnlara  of  it  were  communicated  to  her,  her  tears 
flowed  last,  and  her  heart  was  oppressed  with  bitterness. 
Itiuppened  that  a  pilgrim  visited  her,  and  remained  there 
for  gome  time.  Observing  the  puverty  to  which  she  had 
heen  reduced,  and  feeling  compassion  for  her  distresses,  he 
•offered  to  make  war  in  her  defence,  on  condition  that,  if 
he  fell  in  battle,  his  stall"  and  scrip  should  be  retained  in 
her  private  chamber,  as  a  memorial  of  his  valour,  and  of 
her  gratitude.  She  faithfully  promised  compliance  with 
"is  wishes;  and  the  pilgrim,  hastening  to  attack  the 
ljrant,  obtained  a  splendid  victory.  But,  in  the  heat  of 
tit  contest,  he  was  himself  mortally  wounded.  The  lady, 
a  ware  of  this,  did  as  she  promised  :  the  staff  and  scrip  were 
«blended  in  her  chamber.  Now,  when  it  was  known  that 
fchehad  recovered  all  her  lost  possessions,  tlnve  kings  made 
large  preparations  to  address,  and,  as  they  hoped,  incline 
her  to  become  the  wife  of  one  of  them.  The  lady,  fore- 
warned of  the  intended  honour,  adorned  herself  with  great 
(=are,  and  walk«l  forth  to  meet  them.  Tiny  wore  received 
According  to  their  dignity  ;  and  whilst  they  remained  with 
her,  »lie  fell  into  soine  perplexity,  and  said  to  herself,  "  If 
»e  three  kings  enter  ray  chamber,  it,  will  disgrace  me  tti 
suffer  the  pilgrim's  stuff  mid  scrip  to  remain  there."  She 
wmmanded  them  to  he  taken  away  ;  and  thus  forget  her 
*«*»,  and  plainly  evinced  her  ingratitude. 


,  My  beloved,  the  lady  is  the  human  soul,  and  the  tyrant 
]*  the  devil,  who  spoils  us  of  our  heavenly  inheritance, 
i In.-  |nl-iiiii  is  Christ,  who  lights  for  and  redeems  us ;  but. 
Sirpitful  of  His  services,  we  receive  the  devil,  the  world, 
■wil  the  flesh,  into  the  chamber  of  our  souls,  and  put  away 
iw  memorials  of  our  Saviour's  love. 


GESTA   ROMASORUJL 


TALE   XXVI. 

OF  HTJIIILITT. 


I 


There  was  a  queen  who  dishonoured  herself  with  a 
servant,  and  bore  him  a  son.  This  eon.  on  arriving  at 
years  of  maturity,  practised  every  description  of  wicked- 
ness, and  conducted  himself  with  the  greatest  insolence 
toward  the  prince,  his  reputed  father.  The  prince,  unable 
to  account  for  such  perversion  of  mind,  interrogated  the 
mother  as  to  the  legitimacy  of  her  child  ;  and  finding,  by 
her  reluctant  confession,  that  he  was  not  his  son.  though 
loth  to  deprive  him  of  the  kingdom,  he  ordained  that  his 
dress,  for  the  time  to  come,  should  be  of  a  different  tt-iture 
and  colour;  one  Bide  to  be  composed  of  the  most  ordinary 
materials,  and  the  other  of  the  most  valuable:  so  that 
when  he  looked  upon  the  baser  portion,  his  pride  might  be 

■  abated,  and  the  vicious  propensities,  in  which  he  had 
indulged,  relinquished;  on  the  other  hand,  when  he 
surveyed  the  more  gorgeous  part,  his  hopes  might  be 
raised,  and  his  spirit  animated  to  goodness.  By  this 
judicious  device,  lie  became  remarkable  for  humility,  and 
ever  al'lcr  abandoned  his  dishonest  life. 


My  beloved,  the  queen  is  any  one  who  commits  a 
mortal  sin.  The  worthless  side  of  the  garment  is  our 
fleshly  Bulistanco;  the  other  is  the  soul,  by  which  man  is 
clawed  with  the  beings  of  heaven,  and  aspires  to  an 
immortal  existence. 


OF  JUST  RECOMPENSE. 
V  ricih  and  powerful  emperor  had  an  only  daughter 
amnion  beauty.  She  was  consigned  to  the  care  of 
ddiera,  who  were   commanded  to  be  o 


t    JUST   RECOMPENSE.  5ft 

arms;  and  every  day   a  stated  sum  was   paid   thera    out 
uf  tlie  king's  treasury.      This  emperor  had  a  seneschal 
"lioiu  he  greatly  favoured;  and  a  valuable  but  ferocious 
ii",;,  which  it  was  necessary  to  confine  with   triple  chains, 
una.-  it  killed  all  it  could   sci/.e.      It  happened  that,  as  the 
nijjwjr  lay  in  lied,  he  formed  a  reaolution  to  proceed   I" 
In.  Hiiiy  Land;  and  in  the  morning,  when  he  aroBe,  sent 
for  the  seneschal,  and  said,  "  I  am  about  to  undertake  an 
«pedition  to  Palestine;  to   your  vigilance  I  commit  ray 
u.iv  daughter,  with  the  soldiers  of  her  guard.     The  dog, 
likewise,  which  I  specially  value,  I  entrust  to  your  care ; 
'Hid,  on  pain  of  instant  death,  let  there  be  no  deficiency  in 
itMidance   upon   my  daughter.     You   shall   supply    the 
ftildim  with   all    that   they  require;    but    observe    that 
tie  dog  is  securely  chained,  and  fed  sparingly,  so  that  his 
IVrocity  may  abate."     The  seneschal  approved  of  all  the 
emjieror's  injunctions,  and  promised   faithfully  to  comply 
'"ib  them  ;  instead  of  which  he  acted  in  direct  opposition, 
i'te  dog  was  fed  with  the  most  unsuitable  food,  and  not 
guarded  as  he  ought  to  have  been,     lie  denied  the  neces- 
saries of  life  to  the  lady,  and  robbed  the  soldiers  of  their 
P»y,  who,  being  needy  and  unemployed,  roamed  over  the 
•-"wintry  in  great  distress.     As  for  the  poor  girl,  forsaken 
tnd  destitute,  she  passed  from  her  chamber  into  tho  court- 
yard of  the  hall  which  she  occupied,  and  there  wandered 
up  and  down  in  sorrow  and  tears.     Now,  the  dog,  whose 
savage  nature    improper    aliment   had   augmented,   burst 
"y  a  sudden  and  violent  movement  from  the  bonds  that 
'-'iiilirtined  him,  and  toro  her  limb  from  limb.     When  this 
afflicting   circumstance    was    known    in    the   kingdom,   it 
'-■Jilted  universal  regret.     When  the  emperor  heard  of  his 
daughter's  death,  he  was  deeply  moved.     The  seneschal 
was  summoned  before   him,  and  asked  why  the  lady  had 
"wn  left  unprovided  for,  the  soldiers  unpaid,  and  the  dog 
inipruuerly  fed,  contrary  to  his  express   command.     But 
toe  man  was  unable  to  answer,  and  offered  not  the  least 
«cuse.    The  torturers,  therefore,  were  called  in ;  he  whs 
round  hand  and  and  foot,  and  thrown  into  a  fiery  furnace. 
"«  emperor's    decree    gave    satisfaction   to   the   whole 
empire.» 

'  This  ie  the  twtiitj-sistu  chapter  in  Wurton's  Andy»». 


GESTA    ROMANiilXM 


My  beloved,  the  emporor  ia  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  the 
fair  daughter  in  the  human  soul ;  the  five  soldiers  are  the 
five  senses;  and  the  dog  is  carnal  allVic  lions,  which  disturb 
and  slay  the  spirit.  The  triple  chain  is  love  to  God— the 
fear  of  offending  Him.  and  shame  when  we  have  done 
so.  The  seneschal  is  any  man  to  whom  the  care  of  thu 
senses  and  the  guardianship  of  the  soul  is  committed. 


TALE  XXVIII. 

OF   THE   EXECRABLE   DEVICES    OF   OLD    WOMEN. 

In  the  kingdom  of  a  certain  empress  there  lived  a  knight, 
who  was  happily  espoused  to  a  noble,  chaste,  and  beautiful 
wife.  It  happened  that  he  was  called  upon  to  take  a  long 
journey,  and  previous  to  his  departure  lie  said  to  the  lady, 
"  I  leave  you  no  guard  but  your  own  discretion  ;  I  be- 
lieve it  to  he  wholly  sufficient."  He  then  embarked  with 
his  attendants.  She  meanwhile  continued  at  her  own 
mansion,  in  the  daily  practice  of  every  virtue.     A  short 

eriod  had  elapsed,  when  the  urgent  entreaties  of  a  neigh- 
ur  prevailed  with  her  to  appear  at  a  festival;  where, 
amongst  other  guests,  was  a  youth,  upon  whom  the  excel- 
lence and  beauty  of  the  lady  made  a  deep  impression.  He 
became  violently  enamoured  of  her,  and  despatched  various 
emissaries  to  declare  his  passion,  and  win  her  to  approve 
his  suit.  But  the  virtuous  lady  received  his  advances 
with  the  utmost  scorn.  This  untoward  repulse  greatly 
disconcerted  the  youth,  and  his  health  daily  declined. 
Nevertheless  he  visited  the  lady  oft,  which  availed  him 
nothing  ;  he  was  still  despised.  It  chanced  that  on  one 
occasion  he  went  sorrowfully  towards  the  church ;  and, 
upon  the  way,  an  old  woman  accosted  him,  who  by  pre- 
tended sanctity  had  long  obtained  an  undue  share  of 
reverence  and  regard.  She  demanded  the  cause  of  the 
youth's  apparent  uneasiness.  "It  will  nothing  profit  me 
to  tell  theo,"  said  he.  "  But,"  replied  the  old  woman,  "  as 
lung  as  the  sick  man  hides  his  malady  from  the  physician 
he  cannot  be  cured :  discover    the  wound,  and  it  ie  not 


OF  THE    EXECRABLE   DEVICES   OF   OLD    WOMEN.       61 

impossible  but  a  remedy  may  be  found.  With  the  aid  of 
Heaven  I  will  rostoro  you  to  health."  Thus  urged,  the 
youth  made  known  to  her  hie  love  for  the  lady.  "  Is  that 
all  ?  "  said  the  beldam — "  return  to  your  home,  I  will  tind  a 
medicine  that  shall  presently  relieve  you."  Confiding  ii 
her   assurances,  he  went  his  way  and  the  other  hers. 

It  seems  she  possessed  a  little  dog,  which  she  obliged 
to  fast  for  two  successive  days ;  on  the  third,  she  made  bread 
of  the  flour  of  mustard,  aud  placed  it  before  the  pining 
animal.  As  soon  as  it  had  tasted  the  bread,  the  pungent 
bitterness  caused  the  water  to  spring  into  its  eyes,  and  the 
whole  of  that  day  tears  flowed  copiously  from  them.  The 
old  woman,  accompanied  by  her  dog,  posted  to  the  house 
of  the  lady  whom  the  young  man  loved ;  and  the  opinion 
entertained  of  her  sanctity  secured  her  an  honourable  and 
gracious  reception.  As  they  sat  together,  the  lady  noticed 
the  weeping  dog,  and  was  curious  to  ascertain  the  cause. 
The  crone  told  her  not  to  inquire,  for  that  it  involved  a 
calamity  too  dreadful  to  communicate.  Such  a  remark, 
naturally  enough,  excited  still  more  the  curiosity  of  the 
fair  questioner,  and  she  earnestly  pressed  her  to  detail  the 
story.  This  was  what  the  old  hag  wanted ;  she  said, 
"  That  little  dog  was  my  daughter — too  good  and  excellent 
for  this  world.  She  was  beloved  by  a  young  man,  who, 
thrown  into  despair  by  her  cruelty,  perished  for  her  love. 
My  daughter,  as  a  punishment,  tor  her  hard-hearted  con- 
duet,  was  suddenly  changed  into  the  little  dog  respecting 
which  you  inquire."  Saying  these  words,  a  few  crocodile 
tears  started  itito  her  eyes ;  and  she  continued,  "  Alas  ! 
how  often  does  this  mute  memorial  recall  my  lost  daughter 
ouceao  beautiful  and  virtuous:  now — oh,  what  is  she  now? 
degraded  from  the  state  of  humanity,  she  exists  only  to 
pine  away  in  wretchedness,  and  waste  her  life  in  tears. 
She  can  receive  no  comfort;  and  they  who  would  ad- 
minister it  can  but  weep  for  her  distresses,  which  surely 
are  without  a  parallel,"  The  lady,  astonished  and  terrified 
at  what  she  heard,  secretly  exclaimed — "Alas!  I  too  am 
beloved;  and  he  who  loves  me  is  in  like  manner  at  the 
point  of  death" — and  then,  instigated  by  her  fears,  dis- 
covered the  whole  circumstance  to  the  old  woman,  who 
idiately   answered   'Beautiful   lady,   do  not  disregard 


02  GESTA    ROMANORUM. 

the  anguish  of  this  young  man:  look  upon  my  unhappy 
.laughter,  and  he  warned  in.  time.  As  she  is,  you  may  he." 
"Oh!"  returned  the  credulous  lady,  "my  good  mother, 
counsel  mo ;  what  would  you  have  me  do  ?  Not  for  worlds 
would  I  become  an  she  is."  "  Why,  then,"  answered  the 
treacherous  old  woman,  "  send  directly  for  the  youth,  and 
give  him  the  love  ho  covota."  The  lady  said,  "  May  I 
entreat  your  holiness  to  fetch  him  ;  there  might  be  some 
scandal  circuited  il'anotliur  went."  '•  My  dear  daughter," 
said  she,  "  I  suffer  with  you,  and  will  presently  bring  him 
hither."  She  arose  and  returned  with  him  ;  and  thus  the 
youth  obtained  bu  mistress.  And  so.  through  the  old 
woman's  means,  the  lady  was  led  to  adultery.* 

APPLICATION. 
My  beloved,  the  knight  is  Christ  ;  the  wife  is  the  soul, 
to  which  God  gave  free  will.  It  is  invited  to  the  feast 
of  carnal  pleasures,  where  a  youth — that  is,  the  vanity  of 
the  world — becomes  enamoured  of  it.  The  old  woman  is 
the  devil ;  the  dog,  tike  hope  of  a  long  life,  and  the  pre- 
sumptuous belief  of  God's  clemency,  which  lead  us  to 
deceive  and  soothe  the  soul. 


OF  CORRUPT  JUDGMENT. 
An  emperor  established  a  law  that  every  judge  convicted 
of  a  partial  administration  of  justice  should  undergo  tki« 

*  The  demon-hunter  in  linn i<>  in  brought  to  mind  by  thisstor^ 

There  thu  lftiiy's  uppreheiisi.iHi.  "  grew  an  powerfully  ou  her,  thai  w 
prevent  the  like  Iuilvv  doom  from  lulliiig  on  her,  eho  «tudied  (jk.*^ 
therein  bestowed  all  the  night  n  uwui)  linw  to  change  her  bntred  ir»-w' 
hind  )ove,  which  ;ir  k-nrrth  flit  I'iiUv  nl.tniiirsl."— Il-rameron,  5th  I)»»5 
Nov.  8.  The  aame  story  occura  in  the  12tli  chapter  of  Alphonsn*.  -" 
t 'iirii-iili  Jltf-i/tHita.  It  ufi]n-ui-h  in  ii.il  Jjii-IUi  u-iiri.  nmougBt  a  coll  ■*  -<* 
lion  of  JEsop'a  Falile.i,  puMinlu-i.1  in  l(j,"is.  Mr.  EIIU,  or  ruthcr  ^  lr 
Douuo  in  bin  Analysis  of  Alplioiisus  (see  Aatii-.nt  Metrical  Itomane^^-'i 
lias  not  noticed  this  translation. 

tHr.  Swan  thought  fit  to  nltot  the  termination  of  this  story,      I'.1 
iug  the  liiisliiiinl  return  siKhk-iily  ami  kill  hi?  wife  and  her  kiv*w- 
This,  lie  thought.  "  ullbrded  a  better  moral."     I  have  omitted     J"'J 

I.-rjinlntioil. — Eoj 


OF   OFFENCE   AND   JUDGMENT. 

■Bverest  penalties.  It  happened  that  a  certain  judge, 
bribed  by  a  large  sum,  gave  a  notoriously  corrupt  decision. 
Thin  circumstance  reaching  the  care  of  the  emperor,  ho 
commanded  him  to  be  flayed.  The  sentence  was  immedi- 
ately executed,  and  the  skin  of  the  culprit  nailed  upon  the 
seat  of  judgment,  as  an  awful  warning  to  others  to  avoid 
a  similar  offence.  The  emperor  afterwards  lieatowed  the 
same  dignity  upon  the  son  of  the  deceased  judge,  and  on 
presenting  the  appointment,  said,  "  Thou  wilt  sit,  to  ad- 
minister justice,  upon  the  skin  of  thy  delinquent  aire : 
should  any  one  incite  thee  to  do  evil,  remember  his  fate; 
look  down  upon  thy  father's  skin,  lest  his  fate  befal  thee." 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ ;  the  unjust  judge  is 
any  evil  man,  who  ought  to  be  flayed — that  is,  stripped  of 
all  bad  dispositions  and  humours.  The  skin  nailed  to  the 
«eat  of  judgment  is  Christ's  passion,  which  is  a  memorial 
to  w  of  what  our  conduct  should  be. 


OF  OFFENCE  AND  JUDGMENT. 
A  certain  king  determined  on  the  occasion  of  some  victory 
h  appoint  three  especial  honours,  and  an  equal  number  of 
disagreeable  accompaniments.  The  first  of  the  honours 
*as  that  the  people  should  meet  the  conqueror  with 
**clamations  and  every  other  testimony  of  pleasure.  The 
B«Coad,  that  all  the  captives,  bound  hand  and  foot,  should 
attend  the  victor's  chariot.  The  third  honour  was  that, 
^wrapped  in  the  tunic  of  Jupiter,  he  should  sit  upon  a 
**intnphal  car,  drawn  by  four  white  horses,  and  be  thus 
oronght  to  the  capital.  But  lest  these  exalted  rewards 
should  swell  the  heart,  and  make  the  favourite  of  fortune 
forgst  his  birth  and  mortal  character,  three  causes  of 
*tmoyance  were  attached  to  them.  First,  a  slave  sat  on 
W  right  hand  in  the  chariot — which  served  to  hint  that 


GESTA    ROMANORCM. 

poverty  and  unmerited  degradation  wero  no  bare  to  the 
■subsequent  attainment  of  the  highest  dignities.  The 
second  annoyance  was  that  the  slave  should  inflict  upon 
him  several  severe  blows,  to  abate  the  haughtiness  which 
the  applause  of  nis  countrymen  might  tend  to  excite — at 
the  same  time  saying  to  him,  "  Nosce  te  ipsum  "  (that  is, 
hune  thyself),  "  and  permit  not  thy  exaltation  to  render 
thee  proud.  Look  behind  thee,  and  remember  that  thou 
art  mortal,"  The  third  annoyance  was  this,  that  free 
licence  was  given,  upon  that  day  of  triumph,  to  utter  the 
most  gAlling  reproaches,  and  the  most  cutting  f 
against  the  victor  while  enjoying  his  triumph.* 


APMJCATTON. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  heavenly  Father ;  and 
the  conqueror  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  has  obtained  a 
glorious  victory  over  sin.  The  first  honour  typifies  His 
entry  into  Jerusalem,  when  the  people  shouted,  "  Hosanna 
to  the  Son  of  David."  The  second,  those  enslaved  by  sin. 
The  third,  Christ's  divinity.  The  four  white  horses  are 
the  four  Evangelists.  The  slave  is  the  worst  of  the  two 
robbers  crucified  with  our  Lord.  The  second  grievance  is 
the  blows  lie  received  ;  and  the  third,  the  indignities  with 
which  He  was  overwhelmed. 


TALE  XXXI. 

OF    THE   RIGOUR   OF   DEATH. 

We  read  that  at  the  death  of  Alexander  a  golden  sepul- 
chre was  constructed,  and  that  a  number  of  philosophers 

*  Privilt*!;t'h  nf  tin*  kirul  wi  »■  jii-riuitU'd  to  the  Roman  alavaa,  on 
the  celebrftiiiiii  of  their  Saturnalia.  Horace  gives  us  an  example 
(Sat.  ii.  7,  5):— 

"Age,  iibertate  Deeembri, 
(Quando  ita  majnres  voluerunt)  utere:  narra." 
Davaa  Bpnrea  not  his  master  ;  and  in  all  probability,  many  a  long- 
treasureil  grudg«  would,  oa  these  oocuion*,  be  rented  io.  tie  bitterest 


OF  GOOD  INSPIRATION. 

a&wml>Ied  round  it.  One  said — "Yesterday,  Alexander 
made  a  treasure  of  gold ;  and  now  gold  makes  a  treasure 
of  him."  Another  observed — ■'  Yesterday,  the  whole  world 
was  not  enough  to  satiate  Ms  ambition;  to-day,  three  or 
four  ells  of  cloth  are  moro  than  sufficient."  A  third  said 
—"Yesterday,  Alexander  commanded  the  people;  to-day, 
tie  people  command  him."  Another  said — "  Yesterday. 
Alexander  could  enfranchise  thousands  ;  to-day,  ho  cannot 
avoid  the  spear  of  death."  Another  remarked—"  Yester- 
day, he  pressed  the  earth ;  to-day,  it  oppresses  him." 
"Yesterday,"  continued  another,  "  all  men  feared  Alexan- 
der ;  to-day,  men  repute  him  nothing."  Another  said, 
"Yesterday,  Alexander  had  a  multitude  of  friends  ;  to-day, 
not  one.  Another  said,  "Yesterday,  Alexander  led  on  an 
innj;  to-day,  that  army  bears  him  to  the  grave." 


APPLICATION, 

My  beloved,  any  one  may  be  called  Alexander  who  is 
rich  and  worldly-minded ;  and  to  him  may  the  observa- 
tions of  the  philosopher  be  truly  applied. 


TALE    XXXII. 

OF  GOOD  INSPIRATION. 

mentions  that  in  poisoned  bodies,  on  account  of 
malignancy  and  coldness  of  the  poison,  no  worm  will 
ender ;  but  if  the  body  be  struck  with  lightning,  in  a 
days  it  will  be  full  of  them.' 

*  Seneca's  observations  are  singular :  "  Mud  isque  inter  annotanda 
fat  licet,  quod  ft  hominum,  at  c-tuternrum  nDimalium  qurc  icta  sunt, 
capot  Bpectat  ad  exitum  fulmims:  quud  omnium  perciu&aruiu  arborum 
«mlra  (nlmina  hastnlie  surgunt.  Quid.  ijui,.-l  malonun  serpentinm,  tt 
ilionmi animalium,  quibua  morlifera  via  inest,  cum  fnhnme  icta  aunt, 
m  omne  coDSumitui?  Unde.  inquit  scia?  In  rniinalh  corpori- 
'—     Fnhnin»  •'-•- 


■-■-  ma 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  men  are  poisoned  by  sin,  and  then  they 
produoe  no  worm,  that  is,  no  virtue ;  but  struck  with  light- 
ning, that  is,  by  the  grace  of  God,  they  are  fruitful  in  good 
works. 


TALE    XXSni. 

OF  HANGING. 

Valerius  tells  ub  that  a  man  named  Paletinns  one  day 
burst  into  a  flood  of  tears,  and  calling  his  son  and  his 
neighbours  around  him,  said,  "  Alas !  alas  I  I  have  now 
growing  in  my  garden  a  fatal  tree,  on  which  my  first  poor 
wife  hung  herself,  then  my  second,  and  after  that  my 
third.  Have  I  not  therefore  cause  for  the  wretchedness  I 
exhibit?  "  "  Truly,"  said  one  who  was  called  Axrius,  "  I 
marvel  that  you  should  weep  at  such  an  unusual  instance 
of  good  fortune  I  Give  me,  I  pray  you,  two  or  three  sprigs 
of  that  gentle  tree,  which  I  will  divide  with  my  neigh- 
bours, and  thereby  afford  every  man  an  opportunity  of 
indulging  the  laudable  winhes  of  his  spouse."  Paletinus 
complied  with  his  friend's  request,  and  ever  after  found 
this  remarkable  tree  the  most  productive  part  of  his 
estate." 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  tree  is  the  cross  of  Christ.  The  man's 
three  wives  are  pride,  lusts  of  the  heart,  and  lusts  of  the 
eyes,  which  ought  to  be  thus  suspended  and  destroyed. 
He  who  solicited  a  part  of  the  tree  is  any  good  Christian. 

*  This  curious  anecdote  ie  recorded  by  ('icero,  in  his  second  boot 
'  De  Oratore,"  from  wbom,  probably,  Valerius  Maximua  copied  il.  if 
it  be  in  hi»  work.    I  cannot  find  it. 

"Salsa  sunt  etiam,  que  habent  Buapicioncmridiculi  abscond i lira . 
—  in  generu  ist  illml  Si'/iili.  i-mii  fuiHilinria  i|uiil:i;ii  qiu-rurtitur, iju'ii 
ret,  niorem  auam  euependisae  ee  de  lieu.    Amabo  tt,  inquit,  da  mil* 
■a  oroore,  51™  «cram,  turculos."— Lib.  ii.  278. 


OF  CONSIDERATION   OF  LIFE. 


TALE  XXXIV. 

OF  CONSIDERATION  OF  LIFE. 

Wk  read  that  Alexander  the  Great  was  the  disciple  of 
Aristotle,  from  whose  instructions  he  derived  the  greatest 
advantage.  Amongst  other  important  matters,  he  inquired 
of  his  master  what  would  profit  himself,  and  at  the  same 
time  be  serviceable  to  others.  Aristotle  answered,  "  My 
sun,  hear  with  attention ;  and  if  you  retain  my  counsel, 
you  will  arrive  at  the  greatest  honours.  There  are  seven 
distinct  points  to  be  regarded.  First,  that  you  do  not 
overcharge  the  balance.  Secondly,  that  you  do  not  feed  a 
fire  with  the  sword.  Thirdly,  gird  not  at  the  crown ;  nor, 
Fourthly,  eat  the  heart  of  a  little  bird.  Fifthly,  when  you 
have  once  commenced  a  proper  undertaking,  never  turn 
from  it.  Sixthly,  walk  not  in  the  high-road ;  and, 
snthly,  do  not  allow  a  prating  swallow  to  possess 
r  eaves."  The  king  carefully  considered  the  meaning 
e  enigmatical  directions  ;  and,  observing  them,  ex- 
i.  their  utility  in  his  subsequent  life.* 


APittJCATION. 

My  beloved,  the  balance  is  human  life;  do  not  over- 
charge it,  but  weigh  everything  accurately,  and  deliberate 
upon  what  you  do.  As  in  the  fable  of  the  vulture.  A 
vulture  swooping  upon  her  prey,  struck  it  with  her  talons. 
After  it  was  killed,  she  first  endeavoured  to  cany  off  the 
1  *hole ;  but  finding  this  beyond  her  power,  she  tore  off  as 
much,  as  she  could  fly  away  with,  and  loft  the  remainder, 
beliind.  "  Do  not  feed  a  fire  with  the  sword," — that  is, 
provoke  not  anger  with  sharp  words.  "  Gird  not  at  the 
crown," — that  is,  respect  the  established  laws.     "  Eat  not 

"This,  I  think,  ia  from  the  Secketa  Sechetobum.  Aristotle,  for 
-  reuong,  sens  a  popular  character  in  the  dork  ogea.  He  was  the 
tahei  of  their  philosophy  '■  am)  bad  been  Die  preceptor  of  Alexander 
UwGrest,  one  of  the  pnncipnl  livirrs  nf  rimiuiice.  Nor  was  Aristotle 
towlf  without  111-  roraamii*  lu^ry ;  in  which  he  fall  a  in  love  with 
m  o[  Greece,  who  quickly  confutes  his  subtlest  syllogism»." 


68  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

the  heart  of  a  little  bird,"  which  being  weak  and  tiraic 
becomes  not  the  condition  of  a  Christian  man.  "  Whe 
you  have  eomineiicud  a  l.dittiijj;  ilcsign,  do  not  turn,  froi 
it," — and  especially,  having  begun  repentance,  persevere  t 
the  end.  A  viper,  wishing  to  espouse  a  kind  of  eel  calle 
the  lamprey,  was  rejected  by  the  latter,  because  of  th 
poison  it  conveyed  The  viper,  determining  to  carry  it 
object,  retired  to  a  secret  place  and  cast  up  the  venom ;  bu 
after  the  nuptials  wen1  solemnized,  went  back  to  the  plao 
where  the  virus  was  deposited,  and  resumed  the  wholo.  L 
like  manner  do  all  sinners.  They  are  awhile  penitent,  bir- 
soon  return  to  their  vomit — that  is  to  their  sins.  "  Wall 
not  by  the  high-road," — which  is  the  road  of  death.  "  Per- 
mit not  a  prating  swallow  to  possess  your  eaves," — that  ii, 
suffer  not  sin  to  dwell  upon  thy  heart. 


TALE    XXXV. 

OF   PEACE,   REFORMATION,   ETC. 


In  the  Roman  annals  we  road  that  it  was  customary,  when 
peace  was  established  between  noblemen  who  had  been  st 
variance,  to  ascend  a  lofty  mountain,  and  take  with  them 
a  lamb,  which  they  sacrificed  in  pledge  of  complete  re- 
union ;  thereby  intimating,  that  as  they  then  poured  forth 
the  blood  of  the  lamb,  so  should  his  blood  be  poured  forth, 
who  infringed  the  smallest  article  of  that  solemn  compact 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  toe  noblemen  t 
lamb  is  Christ. 


nd  man  ;  and  the- 


OF   THE    COURSE   OF   HUMAN    LIFE, 


TALE    XXXVI. 

OP  THE  COURSE  OF  HUMAN  LIFE. 
We  are  told  of  a  certain,  king  who,  beyond  all  other 
singa,  wished  to  make  himself  acquainted  with  the  nature 
of  man.  Now,  in  a  remote  part  of  his  kingdom,  there  dwelt 
a  famous  philosopher,  by  whose  great  science  many  sur- 
prising mysteries  were  expounded.  When  the  king  hoard 
of  Lis  celebrity,  he  despatched  &  messenger  to  him  to  com- 
mand his  immediate  appearance  at  court.  The  philosopher 
willingly  complied  with  the  king's  wish.  On  his  reaching 
lie  reduce,  the  royal  inquirer  thus  addressed  him:  "Master, 
I  have  heard  much  of  your  extraordinary  wisdom,  and  pro- 
found research  into  natural  phenomena.  I  would  myself 
bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  general  report.  In  the 
first  place,  tell  me  what  is  man?  The  philosopher  an- 
swered, "  Man  is  a  wretched  thing  :  this  is  his  beginning, 
middle,  and  end.  There  is  no  truth  so  apparent;  and 
llierefore  Job  said,  '  Mau  that  is  born  of  a  woman  is  full  of 
miseries.'  Look  upon  him  at  his  birth ;  he  is  poor  and 
powerless.  In  the  middle  period  ol'  Ids  life,  you  will  find 
tU  world  attacking  him,  narrowing  his  comforts,  aud  eon- 
Iributing  to  the  eternal  reprobation  of  Ids  soul.  If  you 
reriew  the  end,  you  will  mark  the  earth  opening  to  receive 
Mm !  And  then,  0  king !  what  becomes  of  the  pomp  of 
your  regal  establishment— of  the  pride  of  your  worldly 
glory?"     "  Master,"  said  the  king,  "  I  will  ask  you  four 

ritions,  which  if  you  resolve  well  and  wisely,  I  will 
ate  you  to  wealth  and  houour.  My  first  demand  is, 
What  is  man  ?  My  second,  What  is  he  like  ?  The  third, 
Where  is  he  ?  and  the  fourth,  With  whom  is  he  asaoci- 
ttod?"  The  philosopher  replied,*  "  At  your  first  question, 
my  lord,  I  cannot  but  laugh.  Ton  ask,  '  What  is  man  ? ' 
«hy,  what  is  he  but  the  slave  of  death — the  guest  of  the 
place  he  dwells  in — a  traveller  hastily  journeying  to  a  dis- 
i™t  land  1   He  is  a  slave,  because  he  is  subject  to  the  hand 

by  fhe  philosopher  is  not  completed, 

more  than  n  moral i nation.     Perhaps 

pceeh  has  become  confused  elhc! 


70  GESTA   EOMAN0RUM. 

of  the  tomb;  death  fetters  him,  sweeps  off  from  the  scene 
even  the  memorials  of  his  name,  and  causes  his  days  to 
drop  away,  like  the  leaven  in  autumn.  But  according  to 
his  desert  will  he  be  rewarded  or  punished.  Again,  man 
is  the  '  guest  of  the  place  ho  dwells  in,'  for  he  lingers  a  few 
short  hours,  and  then  oblivion  covers  him  as  with  a  gar- 
ment. He  is  also  a  'a  traveller  journeying  to  a  distant 
land.'  He  passes  on,  sleepless  and  watchful,  with  scarce  a 
moment  given  him  to  snatch  the  means  of  subsistence,  and 
discharge  the  relative  duties  of  his  station.  Death  hurries 
him  away.  How  ninth,  therefore,  are  wo  called  upon  to 
provide  every  requisite  for  the  journey — that  is,  the  vir- 
tues which  beseem  and  support  the  Christian.  To  your 
second  question,  '  What  i*  man  like?'  I  answer  that  he 
resembles  a  sheet  of  ice,  which  the  heat  of  noon  certainly 
and  rapidly  dissolves.  Thus  man,  mixed  up  of  gross  and 
elementary  particles,  by  the  fervour  of  his  own  infirmities, 
quickly  falls  into  corruption.  Moreovor,  he  is  like  an 
apple  hanging  upon  its  parent  stem.  The  exterior  is  fair, 
and  promises  a  rich,  maturity — lint  there  is  aworm  preying 
silently  within  :  ere  long  it  drops  to  the  earth,  perforated 
and  rotten  at  the  core.*  Whence,  then,  arises  human 
pride?  The  third  query  is,  '  Where  is  man?1  I  reply,  in  a 
state  of  multifarious  war,  for  he  has  to  contend  against  the 
world,  the  flesh,  and  the  devil.  Your  fourth  demand  was, 
'  With  whom  is  he  associated  ? '  With  seven  troublesome 
companions,  which  continually  beset  and  torment  him. 
These  are,  hunger,  thirst,  heat,  cold,  weariness,  infirmity, 
and  death.  Arm,  therefore,  the  soul  against  the  devil,  the 
world,  and  the  flesh,  whose  wars  are  divers  seductive 
temptations.  Various  preparations  are  needful  for  an 
effectual  resistance.  The  flesh  tempts  us  with  voluptuous- 
ness; the  world,  by  the  griitiiiealioiis  of  vanity;  and  the 
devil,  by  the  suggestions  of  pride.  If,  then,  the  flesh 
tempt  thee,  remember  that,  though  the  day  and  the  hour 
be  unknown,  it  must  soon  return  into  its  primitive  dust ; 
and,  remember  yet  more,  that  eternal  punishment  awaits 


yuiSESPEARE,  Merch.  of  Venice,  Act  i.  Sc.  3. 


OF    THE    OOTJBSE    OF    HUMAK    LIFE. 


71 


%  dereliction  from  virtue.  So,  in  the  second  chapter  of 
ilie  Book  of  Wisdom,  '  Our  body  shall  become  duet'  and 
ashes.'  It  follows  that,  after  these  passages  of  mortal  life, 
oblivion  shall  be  our  portion — we  and  our  deeds  alike 
itmll  be  forgotten.  Tno  recollection  of  this  will  often 
oppose  a  barrier  to  temptation,  and  prevent  its  clinging 
wdtii  fatal  tenacity  to  the  heart.  If  the  vanity  of  the 
world  allure  thee,  reflect  upon  its  ingratitude,  and  thou 
wilt  be  little  desirous  of  becoming  bound  to  it.  And 
though  thou  ehouldst  dedicate  thy  whole  life  to  its  ser- 
vice, it  will  permit  thee  to  carry  off  nothing  but  thy  sins. 
This  may  lie  exemplified  by  the  fable  of  the  partridge.  A 
pirtridge,  anxious  for  the  safety  of  her  young,  on  the 
"pproach  of  a  sportsman,  ran  before  him,  feigning  herself 
1  "n  order  to  draw  him  from  her  nest.  The 
crediting  this  appearance,  eagerly  followed, 
she  lured  him  on,  until  he  had  entirely  lost  sight 
the  nest,  and  then  rapidly  flew  away.  Thus  the 
sportsman,  deceived  by  the  bird's  artifice,  obtained  only 
Es  labour  for  his  paina.*  So  it  is  with  the  world.  The 
sportsman  who  approaches  tho  nest  is  the  good  Christian, 
who  acquires  food  and  clothing  by  the  sweat  of  his  brow. 
The  world  calls,  and  holds  out  the  temptation,  which  his. 
fiailty  cannot  resist.  She  tells  him  that  if  ho  follow  her, 
he  will  attain  the  desire  of  his  heart.  Thus  he  is  gradually 
red  from  works  of  goodness,  and  follows  the  vanities 
world.  Death  comes  and  bears  on  his  pale  steed 
ived  and  miserable  man,  since  he  neither  has  those 
goods  ho  sought  nor  the  fruit  of  good  works.  See 
world  rewards  its  votaries  !  t  So,  in  the  second 
f  James,  "  The  whole  world  is  placed  in  evil ;  is 
of  the  pride  of  life,"  &c.  In  the  third  place,  if 
tempt  thee,  remember  Christ's  sorrows  and  Buffer- 
thought  which  pride  cannot  surely  resist.     "  Put 

i  fable   of   the   partridge   is   popular ;   but   it   BeemB    more 
"  'o  tho  lapwing. 

is  a  (emwkable  ooiuoidence  or  plagiarism.    Pope   has 

[ifeu  a  complete  and  literal  version  of  the  passage  iu  this  moral. 

"Ecco  quomodo  mundua  suia  aervitonbiia  reddit  meroedem." 

" See  how  iht  icnrli)  /r*  r-l-  rum  reward*!" 

Moral  Esiuys,  "  On  the  Character  of  Women." 


72 


OESTA  ROMANORCM. 


on,"  says  the  apostle,  "  the  whole  armour  of  God,  that  ye 
may  stand  fast.'  Solinus  *  tells  us  (speaking  of  the  -won- 
ders of  the  world)  that  Alexander  had  a  certain  horse 
which  he  called  Bucephalus.  When  this  animal  was 
armed,  and  prepared  for  battle,  he  would  permit  no  one 
hiit  Alexander  to  mount ;  and  if  another  attempted  it,  he 
presently  threw  him.  But  in  the  trappings  of  peace,  he 
made  no  resistance,  mount  him  who  would.  Thus  a  man, 
armed  by  the  passion  of  our  Lord,  receives  none  into  his 
heart  but  God  ;  and  if  the  temptations  of  the  devil  strive 
to  sit  there,  they  are  east  violently  down.  Without  this 
armour,  it  is  open  to  every  temptation.  Let  us  then  study 
to  clothe  ourselves  with  virtue,  that  we  may  at  length 
come  to  the  glory  of  God. 


TALE    XXXVII. 

OF  LIFTING   UP   THE    MIND   TO   HEAVEN. 

Pliny  f  mentions  the  story  of  an  eagle  that  had  built  her 
nest  upon  a.  lofty  rock,  whose  young  a  kind  of  serpent 
called  Perna  J  attempted  to  destroy.  But  finding  that 
they  were  beyond  her  reach,  she  stationed  herself  to  wind- 
ward and  emitted  a  large  quantity  of  poisonous  matter,  so 
as  to  infect  the  atmosphere  ami  poison  the  young  birds. 
But  the  eagle,  led  by  the  unerring  power  of  instinct,  took 
this  precaution.  She  fetched  a  peculiar  sort  of  stone  called 
Achates^  which  she  deposited  in  that  quarter  of  the  nest 

*  Solinns  wrote  Be  MiroMlibm  Nnndi.  He  was  a  Latin 
grammarian;  but  the  period  in  vdiii'.h  he  flourished  is  doubtful. 
Moreri  says  hie  work  was  entitled  I'ohjltiitar ,  "ijui  est  uu  reeueil 
dea  choses  leu  pliip  me  mi  Tab  Irs  1,11'™  voit  en  divers  pais." 

t  This  story  dots  not  appear  in  Pliny. 

%  There  is  no  such  monster  in  Pliny.  He  tisoa  the  word  for  a 
seion  or  graft,  book  17,  c.  x.,  and  it  also  signifies  a  kind  of  shell-fish, 
according  to  Basil. — Fabeb. 

S  Achates  is  the  Latin  name  for  agate.  "Found  it  was  first  in 
Ficilie,  near  mil"  a  river  ealU-il  liken  i-e  Achate- ;  but  afterwards  in 
many  other  place?."  "  People  are.  prr-meled  that  il  availeth  much 
•gainst  the  sting  of  venomous  apidert  anil  csijrpinijs :   which  proptrtio 


OF  PRECAUTION. 


which  was  opposite  to  the  wind  ;  and  the  stone,  by  virtue 
of  certain  occult  properties  which  it  possessed,  prevented 
W  Dfttictons  intentions  of  the  serpent  from  taking  effect. 


My  beloved,  the  eagle  is  any  man  of  quick  perception 
and  aspiring  mind.  The  young  birds  are  good  works, 
which  the  devil — that  is,  the  serpent — endeavours  to 
destroy  by  temptation.  The  rock  on  which  the  eagle  built 
is  Christ. 


TALE    XXXVIII. 


h<  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Ilenry  II.,  a  certain  city  was 
Weged  by  its  enemies.  Before  they  had  reached  its  walls 
s  dove  alighted  in  the  city,  around  whose  neck  a  letter 
•as  suspended,  which  bore  the  following  inscription : — 
"The  generation  of  dogs  is  at  hand;  it  will  prove  a 
quarrelsome  breed ;  procure  aid,  and  defend  yourselveB 
resolutely  against  it," 

APPLICATION. 


'  «Did  very  well  believe  tube  in  the  Sicilian  ninths,  fur  that  so  soone 
^scorpions  come  within  ihe  aire,  and  brtuth  of  the  said  province  of 
^■■ili.-,  i\s  venomous  aa  they  bet1  otherwise,  they  die  thereupon."  "In 
faeia,  they  arc  (itrsuaded,  that  a  perfume  of  agnthes  turuath  away 
tempests  and  all  eitraoriiinarie  impression)!  of  the  aire,  as  also  stnieth 
'ke  violent  strearae  and  rage  of  rivers.    Bnt  to  know  which  be  proper 


f°r  this  purpose.  Uiev 
*«er;  for  if  thev  cn.di 
n;U'— PlUty,  Nat.  Hi 


t  them  into  a  cauldron  of  seething 
11  argument  that  they  bee 


GESTA    ROMAN'uRUM. 


TALE    XXXIX. 

OF   RECONCILIATION    BETWEEN   GOD   AND   MAN, 

The  Roman  annals  say,  snub  discord  oxisti.il  between  two 
brothers,  that  one  of  them  maliciously  laid  waste  the  lands 
of  the  other.  The  Emperor  Julius'  having  heard  of  this, 
determined  to  punish  the  offender  capitally.  The  latter, 
therefore,  understanding  what  was  meditated,  wont  to  the 
brother  whom  ho  had  injured,  and  besought  forgiveness ; 
at  the  same  time  napes ting  that  he  would  screen  him  from 
the  emperor's  vengeance.  But  they  who  were  preBont  at 
the  interview  rebuked  him,  and  declared  that  he  deserved 
punishment,  nut  pardon.  To  which  he  from  whom  for- 
giveness was  asked  made  the  following  reply :  "  That 
prince  is  not  worthy  of  regard  who  in  war  assumes  the 
srentleiiess  of  a  lamb,  but  in  peace  puts  on  the  ferocity  of  a 
lion.f  Although  my  brother  should  not  incline  towards 
me,  yet  will  I  endeavour  to  conciliate  him.  For  the 
injury  he  did  me  is  sufficiently  avenged  now  that  he  is 
asking  for  pardon."  And  thus  he  restored  peace  between 
the  enraged  emperor  and  his  brother. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  these  two  brothers  are  the  sons  of  God 

and  man  ;  between  whom  (lie re  is  discord  as  often  as  man 
commits  a  mortal  sin.     The  emperor  is  God. 


"  "We   must  iint    forget   that   there  was  the  romance  of  Juliui 
Casar.     And   I  believe   Antony  nnd  l!loo|  intra   were  more   known 

churautcra  in  (In-  dark  ii.u'cs  llu»  it  (.'•'] muimly  supposed.  ShakBl«*n) 
is  thought  to  kayo  formal  his  pluy  <>u  this  Amy  from  North's  transla- 
tion of  Amyot'u  unauthoutio  Frc-uoh  l'lutnrch,  published  at  Looduri 
in  1579." 

From  such  pouriVf.  in  :ill  ]>rul,;iliilit.y.  tin-  in. int.-  derived  the  little 
they  know  of  the  Gesta  Komanohum. 

+  "  In  pcucv,  (Ji.'it's  iiMlliinj  sn  lircoiiics  a  man. 
As  modt-ht  hi.i] liios  in m[  humility : 
But  when  tki'  tihiht  t.f  wiir  I.Imwh  in  our  ears, 
Then  imitate  the  neti™  of  the  tiger." 

SiiAHEh-rEiiu;,  Mm.  V.  Act  iii.  6c  1. 


OF   TEMPTATION. 


OF  THE  MEASURE  OF  TEMPTATION,   AND  OF  SKILL. 

Kuxofirng  relates  *  that  a  certain  knight,  in  consequence 
of  something  he  had  witnessed,  suspected  his  wife  of  trans- 
ferring her  affections  from  himself  to  another.  He  inter- 
rotate.-]  her  on  the  subject,  but  she  firmly  denied  it.  Not 
satisfied  with  her  asseverations,  the  knight  inquired  for  a 
cunning  clerk  ;  and  having  found  such  as  he  wanted,  he 

eiscd  to  him  the  question  which  disturbed  his  rest, 
clerk  answered,  "  Unless  I  am  permitted  to  see  and 
morose  with  the  lady,  I  cannot  take  upon  me  to  decide." 
"  I  pray  you,  then,"  said  the  knight,  "  dine  with  me  to- 
day, and  I  will  give  you  the  opportunity  you  require." 
Accord i ugly  the  clerk  went  to  the  knight's  house  to  dinner. 
The  meal  being  concluded,  our  clerk  entered  into  conver- 
sation with  the  suspected  lady,  and  spoke  to  her  on  various 
topics.  This  done,  he  took  hold  of  her  hand  ;  and,  as  if 
acei  lien  tally,  pressed  his  finger  upon  her  pulse.  Then,  in 
a  careless  tone,  adverting  to  the  person  whom  she  was 
presumed  to  love,  her  pulse  immediately  quickened  to  a 
surprising  degree,  and  acquired  a  feverish  heat.  By  and 
by  the  clerk  mentioned  her  husband,  and  spoke  of  him  in 
ranch  the  same  way  as  he  had  done  of  the  other ;  when 
the  motion  of  her  pulse  abated,  and  its  heat  was  entirely 
lost.  Whereby  he  plainly  perceived  that  her  all'i^tions 
"We  alienated ;  and,  moreover,  that  they  were  placed  upon 
the  very  person  respecting  whom  she  had  been  accused. 
Thus,  by  the  management  of  a  learned  olerk,  the  knight 
«certained  the  truth  of  his  s 


Am,  I  CATION. 


My  beloved,  the  knight  is  Christ,  who,  having  warred 
in  our  behalf  against  the  devil,  was  joined  to  the  soul  in 
wptism,  which  is  emblemed  hy  the  wife.  That  wife  too 
men  regards  another — that  is,  the  world.  As  the  motion 
'rf  the  pulso  revealed  the  lady's  attachment,  so  does  the 
bating  of  the  heart  our  love  of  worldly  vanities. 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


■ 


OF   THE    CONQUESTS    AND    CHARITY    OF    OCTt    LORD. 

CosriRAS,  king  of  tlio  Athenians,*  having  declared  war 
against  the  Dorians,  assembled  an  army,  and  despatched 
messengers  lo  the  oracle  of  Apollo,  to  ascertain  tUo  fortune 
of  the  engagement.  The  god  answered  that,  unless  he 
himself  fell  liy  the.  sword  of  the  enemy,  he  should  not  win 
the  battle.  The  Dorians,  also,  uniLurstaiikliiifr,  the  response 
of  the  oraelo,  strictly  enjoined  their  soldiers  to  spare  the 
life  of  Cosdras;  but  the  king,  disguising  himself,  cut  his 
way  into  the  heart  of  the  hu.stilo  army.  One  of  their  sol- 
diers seeing  this,  pierced  him  to  the  heart  with  a  lance. 
Thus,  by  the  sacrifice  of  Lis  own  life,  he  rescued  his  people 
from  the  hands  of  their  enemies,  and  Jub  death  was 
l*wailed  not  less  by  the  adverse  hoBt  than  by  bis  own 
subjects. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  thus  did  our  blessed  Lord,  by  the  pre- 
determined counsel  of  God,  dio  to  liberate  mankind  from 
their  worst  enemies.  As  Cosdras  changed  his  regal  state 
for  the  humiliating  garb  •  •(  a  servant,  so  did  Christ  put  on 
mortality,  and  by  His  death  triumphed  over  our  demoniacal 


OF   WANT   OF   CHARITY. 


. 


Valerius  records  t  that  ho  once  saw  in  the  city  of  Rome  ft 
very  lofty  column,  on  which  were  inscribed  four  Jotters, 
three  times  repeated— throe  P's,  throe  S's,  three  R's,  and 

•  By  Omdrai  is  meant  Coimrn,  the  last  king  of  Athene.  Sw 
Justin  ii.  oh.  I)  nral  7. 

[II  is  curious  that  the  fircrk  history  of  the  fiesta  should  be  M 
much  more  fieeunile  llum  it»  Itnuinn  liistnry.  Coinp.  the  story  of 
Dumaratus,  Tftl*  XXI,— En,] 

f  There  is  no  foundation  in  Valerius  M^tiimus  for  this  story. 


OF  CHBIST.  77 

three  F's.  When  the  letters  had  attracted  attention,  he 
exclaimed,  "  Woe,  woe ;  I  see  confusion  to  the  city."  The 
nobles,  hearing  what  had  been  done,  said  to  him,  "  Master, 
Vet  us  understand  thy  conceit."  He  answered,  "  The  mean 
ing  of  the  inscription  ib  this:  'Pater  patriae  perditur.' 
[The  father  of  his  country  is  lost.]  '  Sapientia  secuin  sus- 
tollitur.'  [Wisdom  has  departed  with  him.]  '  Ruunt 
reges  Eomte.'  [The  kings  of  Home  perish.]  '  Ferro, 
flamiaa,  fame.' "  [By  the  sword,  by  fire,  by  famine.]  The 
event  afterwards  fully  approved  the  veracity  of  the  pre- 


My  beloved,  spiritually  speaking,  the  father  of  his 
country  is  charity,  which  is  the  result  of  love  to  God ; 
»'ten  that  is  lost,  wisdom  also  departs.  Hence,  the  kings 
of  the  earth  fall  j  and  the  sword,  fire,  and  dearth  devour 
mrnkind. 

Of  CHRIST,  WHO,  BY  HIS  PASSIOH,  DELIVERED  C8 
FROM  HELL. 
Li  the  middle  of  Rome  there  was  once  an  immense  chasm, 
which  no  human  efforts  could  fill  up.  The  gods  being 
questioned  relative  to  this  extraordinary  circumstance, 
made  answer  that,  unless  a  man  could  be  found  who 
would  voluntarily  commit  himself  to  the  gulf,  it  would 
remain  unclosed  for  ever.  Proclamations  were  sent  forth, 
signifying  that  he  who  was  willing  to  offer  himself  a 
«cifice  for  the  good  of  his  country  should  appear  — 
™t  not  a  man  ventured  to  declare  himself.  At  length 
Harcim  Aurelius  *  said,  "  If  ye  will  permit  me  to  live  as  I 
please  during  the  space  of  one  whole  year,  I  will  cheerfully 
surrender  myself,  at  the  end  of  it,  to  the  yawning  chasm." 


TALE    XLIII. 


'  Mrhmib  CurtiUB  was  the  name  of  the  youth  who  devoted  himself. 
•Ruling  to  Roman  history.  The  condition  upon  which  Iho  sacrifice 
*m  to  be  performed  U  purely  monastic. 


7S 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


The  Romans  assented  with  joy,  and  Aurelius  indulged  Sit 
that  year  in  every  wish  of  his  heart.  Then,  mounting  a 
noble  steed,  he  rode  furiously  into  the  abyss,  which  imino- 
diataly  closed  over  him. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  Home  is  the  world,  in  the  centre  of  which, 
before  the  nativity  of  Christ,  was  the  gulf  of  hell,  yawn- 
ing for  our  immortal  souls.  Christ  plunged  into  it,  and  by 
bo  doing  ransomed  the  human  race. 


OF  ENVY. 


into  it,  and  by 
ras  remarkable 


Before  Tiberius  ascended  the  throne,  he  was  remarkable 
for  his  wisdom.  His  eloquence  was  brilliant,  and  his 
military  operations  invariably  successful.  But  when  he 
became  emperor  hi»  nature  seemed  to  have  undergone  a 
perfect  revolution.  All  martial  enterprises  were  aban- 
doned, and  the  nation  groaned  beneath  his  relentless  and 
persevering  tyranny.  He  put  to  death  hie  own  sons,  and 
therefore  it  was  not  to  be  expected  that  he  should  spare  those 
of  others.  The  patricians  threatened,  and  the  people  cursed 
him.  Formerly  he  had  been  noted  for  temperance,  but 
now  he  showed  himself  the  most  intemperate  of  a  dissolute 
age ;  insomuch  that  be  obtained  the  surname  of  Bacchus." 
It  happened  that  a  certain  artificer  fabricated  a  plate 
of  glass,  which,  being  exhibited  to  the  emperor,  he 
attempted,  but  ineffectually,  to  break  it.  It  bont,  however, 
beneath  his  efforts,  and  the  artificer,  applying  a  hammer 
and  working  upon  the  glass  as  upon  copper,  presently 
restored  it  to  its  level.  Tiberius  inquired  by  what  art  this 
was  effected ;  and  the  other  repliod  that  it  was  a  secret 

•  The  orgies  of  Tiberius  might  qualify  him  for  this  title;  but  it 
noes  not  appear  that  it  was  ever  conferred,  Seneca  eaid  pleaeuntlv 
of  this  emperor,  that  "he  never  wa*  drunk  but  once;  and  that  oqcb 
kus  all  his  life." 


OF   ENVY.  79 

not  fo  bo  disclosed.  Immediately  he  was  ordered  to  the 
block,  the  emperor  alleging  that  if  such  an  art  should 
be  practised,  gold  and  stiver  would  be  reckoned  as 
notiung.* 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved  Tiberius  is  any  matt  who  in  poverty  is 
humble  and  virtuous,  but  raised  to  affluence  forgets  every 
honest  feeling.  The  artificer  is  any  poor  man  who  presents 
the  rich  with  unacceptable  gifts. 

*  "Tbia  piece  of  history,  which  appears  also  in  Cornelias  Agripp» 
Di  Vikitatb  Scikntiabcm,  is  taken  from  Pliny,  or  rather  from  bis 
tannriber  Iflidore.'  Pliny,  in  relating  this  story,  says  that  the 
lempemture  of  gloss,  so  as  to  render  it  flexible,  was  discovered  under 
tie  reign  of  Tiberius, 

"In  the  same  chapter  Pliny  observes  that  glass  is  susceptible  of 
«II  colours.  'Fit  et  allium,  et  imirrhenuiii.  nut  liyneinthoa  sapphi- 
>oique  imitatum,  et  omnibus  aliis  eoloribus.  Nee  est  alia  nunc 
nutmaaequari'it.  mit  vijitm  j,irintx  accommodalior.  Maiimus  tamen 
Honor  in  candido.'1  But  the  Romans,  aa  the  laet  sentence  partly 
1>WT«,  probably  never  used  any  coloured  glass  for  windows.  The 
Ural  notice  of  windows  nf  a  church  made  nf  ivjfiurufl  idass  Doours  in 
Chronicles  quoted  by  Mmatori.  In  the  year  802  a  pope  built  a 
ciraich  at  Rome,  and  'fenestras  ei  vitro  diversia  eoloribus  conclu sit 
ntque  decoravit.'  And  in  856  he  produces  'fenestra  vera  vitreia 
ooforibna,'  &e.  Thia,  however,  was  a  sort  of  Mosaic  in  glass.  To 
MpresB  figures  in  glass,  or  what  we  now  call  the  art  of  paiutiu;-  in 
glass,  waa  a  very  different  work :  and  I  believe  I  can  show  it  waa 
btonghl  from  Constantinople  to  Rome  before  the  tenth  century,  with 
nther  ornamental  arts.  Guicciardini,  who  wrote  about  15G0,  in  his 
IkxTitiioiu  de  talii  Paeai  Bassi,  ascribes  the  invention  of  baking 
colours  in  glass  for  church -windows  to  tin:  Nctlivrliuidurs  -  but  he  docs 
not  mention  the  period,  and  I  think  be  must  be  mistaken.  It  is 
certain  that  this  art  owed  much  to  the  laborious  ami  mechanical 
genius  of  toe  Germans ;  ami,  in  particular,  their  uVcp  researches  and 
ciperimentB  in  chemistry,  which  they  cultivated  in  tbc  dark  agusi 
with  the  most  indefatigable  assiduity,  must  have  greatly  awiati-d  it* 
operations,    I  could  give  very  early  anecdotes  of  this  art  in  England." 

— WlJTOd. 

1  Mdon  waa  a  favontiw  rspertnry  of  the  Middle  Ag™, 


QESTA  ROMANORUM. 


There  was  a  wise  and  rich  king  who  possessed  a  beloved, 
but  not  a  loving  wife.  She  had  three  illegitimate  sons, 
who  proved  ungrateful  and  rebellious  to  their  reputed 
parent.*  In  due  time  she  brought  forth  another  son, 
whose  legitimacy  was  undisputed  ;  and  after  arriving  at  a 
good  old  age,  he  died,  and  was  buried  in  the  royal  sepul- 
chre of  his  fathers.  But  the  death  of  the  old  king  caused 
great  strife  amongst  bis  surviving  sons,  about  the  right  of 
succession.  All  of  them  advanced  a  claim,  and  none  would 
relinquish  it  to  the  other ;  the  three  first  presuming  upon 
their  priority  in  birth,  and  the  last  upon  his  legitimacy. 
In  this  strait,  they  agreed  te)  refer  the  absolute  decision  of 
their  cause  to  a  certain  honourable  knight  of  the  late  king. 
When  this  person,  therefore,  heard  their  difference,  he 
said,  "  Follow  my  advice,  and  it  will  greatly  benefit  you. 
Draw  from  its  sepulchre  the  body  of  the  deceased  monarch ; 
prepare,  each  of  you,  a  bow  and  single  shaft,  and  whoso- 
ever transfixes  the  heart  of  his  father  shall  obtain  the 
kingdom."  The  counsel  was  approved,  the  body  was 
taken  from  its  repository  and  bound  to  a  tree.  The  arrow 
of  the  first  son  wounded  the  king's  right  hand — on  which, 
as  if  the  contest  were  determined,  they  proclaimed  him 
heir  to  the  throne.  But  the  second  arrow  went  nearer, 
and  entered  the  month  ;  so  that  lie,  too,  considered  himself 
the  undoubted  lord  of  the  kingdom.  However,  the  third 
perforated  the  heart  itself,  and  consequently  imagined  that 
his  claim  was  fully  decided,  and  his  succession  sure.  It 
now  came  to  the  turn  of  the  fourth  and  last  son  to  shoot? 
but  he  broke  forth  into  a  lamentablo  cry,  and  with  eyes 
swimming  in  tears,  said,  "  Oh  t  ruy  poor  father ;  have  I 
then  lived  to  see  you  the  victim  of  an  impious  contest — 

*  It  La  stated  in  the  first  book  of  Herodotus  that  the  Persians 
considered  a  rebellious  son  undoubtedly  illegitimate.  This  is  another 
strong  proof  of  the  oriental  structure  of  these  stories.  Sec  Tale* 
IX.  and  XXVI. 


,.    Hn  edm 


OF   MORTAL   SINS.  SI 


thine  own  offspring  lacerate  thy  unconscious  clay  ?— Far, 
oh !  far  be  it  from  mo  to  strike  thy  meliorated  form,  whether 
living  or  dead."  No  sooner  had  he  uttered  these  words, 
than  the  nobles  of  the  realm,  together  with  the  whole 
twple,  unanimously  elected  hira  to  the  throne;  and  de- 
priving the  three  barbarous  wretches  of  their  rank  and 
wealth,  expelled  them  for  ever  from  the  kingdom." 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  that  wise  ami  rich  king  is  the  King  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  lords,  who  joined  Himself  to  our  flesh, 
■if  to  a  beloved  wife.  But  going  after  other  gods,  it  forgot 
the  love  due  to  Him  in  return,  and  brought  forth  by  an 
illicit  connection,  three  sons,  viz.  Pagans,  Jews,  and  Here- 
lice.  The  first  wounded  the  right  hand— that  is,  the 
doctrine  of  Christ  by  persecutions.  The  second,  the 
month — when  they  gave  Christ  vinegar  and  gall  to  drink  ; 
and  the  third  wounded,  and  continue  to  wound,  the  heart 
—while  they  strive,  by  every  sophistical  objection,  to 
deceive  the  faithful.  Tho  fourth  son  is  any  good  Christian. 


TALE     XLVI. 

OF   HOBTAL   SINS. 

Julius  relates  that  in  the  month  of  May  a  certain  man 
entered  a  grove,  in  which  stood  seven  beautiful  trees  in 
leaf,  The  leaves  so  much  attracted  him,  that  he  collected 
mure- than  he  had  strength  to  carry.  On  this,  three  men 
mme  to  his  assistance,  who  led  away  both  the  man  and 
ihe  load  beneath  which  ho  laboured.  As  ho  went  out  he 
lei!  iuto  a  deep  pit,  and  the  extreme  weight  upon  his 
tlionlders  sank  him  to  the  very  bottom.     The  same  author 

*  This  tale,  containing  an  appeal  to  natural  affection,  in  all 
probability  takes  its  vise  ['nun  tlir  jm  lament  of  Solomon.  But  whether 
or  not.  the  analogy  U  sufficiently  striking  to  betray  its  Eastern 
derivation. 


82  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

also  relates,  in  his  history  of  animals,  that  if,  after  a  crow 
had  built  her  nest,  you  wished  to  hinder  her  from  hatching 
her  eggs,  place  between  the  bark  and  the  tree  a  quantity 
of  pounded  glass ;  *  and  as  long  as  it  remained  in  that 
situation,  she  would  never  bring  off  her  young. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloTed,  the  grove  is  the  world,  wherein  are  many 
trees,  pleasant  indeed  to  the  eye,  hut  putting  forth  only 
mortal  sins.  With  these  man  loads  himself.  The  three 
men  who  brought  assistance,  are  the  devil,  the  world, 
and  the  flesh:  the  pit  is  hell.  Again,  the  crow  is  th.' 
devil ;  the  nest  the  heart ;  which  he  too  frequently  in- 
habits. The  pounded  glass  is  the  remembrance  of  our 
latter  end,  the  tree  is  the  soul,  and  the  bark  is  the  huinaii 
body. 


TALE    XLVII. 


OF   THREE    KINCS. 


A  Danish  king  bad  the  greatest  reverence  for  the  thret 
Eastern  potentates  f  whom  the  star  led  to  Jerusalem  ou 
the  nativity  of  our  blessed  Lord ;  and  he  was  usually  in 
the  habit  of  invoking  them  to  his  aid  upon  any  dilemma. 
The  pious  king  set  out  with  a  great  company  to  Cologne, 
where  the  bodies  of  tin;*;  sninted  kings  are  preserved  with 
great  splendour,  taking  with  him  throe  gulden  crowns,  con- 
structed after  a  wonderful  and  roynl  fashion.  Besides  this, 
he  distributed  more  than  six  thousand  marks  to  the  church 
and  to  the  poor,  thus  leaving  an  example  of  faith  to  his 
people.  As  he  returned  to  his  own  dominions,  he  fell  into 
a  deep  sleep  ;  and  dreamt  that  he  beheld  the  three  kings 
bearing  upon   their  heads  the  crowns  he   had  lately  pru- 

•  Cinerel ;  anliea  of  glass. 


iitlod  lor  tht  Uui.-u.m  uikndur. 


OF   THREE    KINGS. 


83 


Kilted,  from  whenco  issued  a  dazzling  lustre.  Each 
appeared  to  address  him  in  turn.  Trie  first  and  the 
older  of  the  three  said,  "  My  brother,  thou  hast  happily 
arrived  hither,  and  happily  .-.halt  thou  return."  The  next 
«aid,  "  Thou  hast  oll'ored  imii.li,  but  more  «halt  thou  carry 
lack  with  thee."  The  third  said,  "  My  brother,  then  art 
faithful:  therefore  with  us  shalt  then  conjointly  reign 
in  heaven  at  the  end  of  twenty- three  years."  Then  the 
elder  presented  to  him  a  pyx  *  filled  with  gold — "  Receive." 
Mid  he,  "  a  treasury  of  wisdom,  by  which  thou  wilt  judge 
_ile  with  equity."  The  second  presented  a  pyx  of 
and  said,  "  Receive  the  myrrh  of  prudence,  which 
bridle  the  deceitful  workings  of  the  rlosli :  for  he  beet 
jrna  who  is  master  of  himself."  The  third  brought  a 
vyi  full  of  fran  kin  cense,  Baying,  "Keceive  the  frank- 
incense of  devotion  and  (leniency;  for  thus  shalt  thou 
relieve  and  soothe  the  wretched.  And  as  the  dew 
moistens  the  herbage  and  promotes  a  large  increase  of 
Futility,  pi.  the  clemency  of  a  king  lifts  him  to  the  stars."  f 
The  sleeping  monarch,  surprised  at  the  distinctness  and 
"n^iilarity  of  his  vision,  suddenly  invoke,  and  found  the 
lyics,  with  their  rich  contents,  deposited  by  his  side, 
fetnrning  to  his  own  kingdom,  he  devoutly  fulfilled 
Uii'  purport  of  his  dream,  and  on  the  conclusion  of  the 
period  foretold,  he  was  worthy  to  possess  an  everlasting 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  Danish  king  is  any  good  Christian 
who  bringH  three  crowns  to  three  holy  kings— that  is. 
W  the  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost.     These  crowns  are 

•  Pyx  is  properly  a  box.    "im£ls,  in-l  nifr!  qnnd  nomcn  buiuui 

"■-"'Lii'at, li-  L.-t  jivxiilciii  tini-iiUin  Ititli  viii'LLnl.."— Fau,  The».     Tht- 

Hiiomn  UthnLiea  put  the  IWt  i-.ilo  this  kind  of  box. 

*  I  tit  l.ntin  r.riy  iiml  iii  its  inlluws  :  "Hicut  roa  herba.ni  irrigat  ut 
'■"■•'■.ii:  -!,■  Mela  dementia  regii  usque  ad  sydera.  provetlit  et 
eullat,"  wliji-li  ccin.:i,U-p  ft-iuiirkni.ly  «iili  u  lM^a.-'r  in  thu  "  Ueiri J 

"The  quality  of  mercy  ia  not  strained; 
It  dropprlh,  !'■■  Ili--  ■ji-fih-  rvhijrvm  heaven, 
Upon  the  place  bentath." — Act  iii.  Sc.  1. 


84  GESTA  ROMANOBUM. 

faith,  hope,  and  charity.  The  pyx  of  gold  is  e 
of  virtues ;  that  of  myrrh  typifies  repentancl 
pyx  of  frank  in  cense  denotes  the  grace  of  God. 


TALE   XLVIII. 


OF   TIIE   END    OF    SINNICHS. 


mil   the 


Diosysius  records  that  when  PerilluB  desired  to  become 
an  artificer  of  Phalaris,  a  cruel  and  tyrannical  king  who 
depopulated  tho  kingdom  of  Agrigentum,  and  was  guilty 
of  many  dreadful  excesses,  he  presented  to  him,  already 
too  well  skilled  in  cruelty,  a  brazen  bull,  which  he  had 
just  constructed.  In  one  of  its  sides  there  was  a  secret 
door,  by  which  those  who  were  sentenced  should  enter 
and  be  burnt  to  death.  The  idea  was  that  tho  sounds 
produced  by  the  agony  of  the  sufferer  confined  within 
should  resemble  the  roaring  of  a  bull ;  and  thus,  while 
nothing  human  struck  the  ear,  the  mind  should  bo  unim- 
pressed by  :i  fueling  of  mercy.  The  king  highly  applauded 
the  invention,  and  said, "  Friend,  the  value  of  thy  industry 
is  yet  untried:  more  cruel  even  than  the  people  account 
me,  thou  thyself  shalt  be  the  first  victim."  Indeed,  there 
is  no  law  more  equit.iil.ilc  than  that  "  the  artificer  of  death 
should  perish  by  his  own  devices,"  as  Ovid  *  has  observed. 


My  beloved,  the  sufferer  is  any  evil-worker  who  will 
finally  suffer  for  the  exertion  of  his  iniquitouB  practices. 

•  "Nor] no  cnim  lex  leqnior  ulla, 

Quam  neeia  artifices  arte  pet  ire  sua." 

De  Arte  Amandt. 
[The  edition  from  whic.fi  Mr.  Bwnn  translated  rend  Quidius  here, 
and  he  allowed  111  is  uiiniilV-at  error  i.o  eLmd.  H  is  eesy  tu  ape  how 
it  crept  into  the  test,  y  nuJ  O  ue  very  mod)  alike  in  Black  Letter, 
and  v  of  course  appeared  tm  u.  All  the  hrst  editions,  except  that 
printed  iit  H:L£!<nau  in  1W17,  rtiui  Ouidiua. — Ed.] 


OF   THE   ILLUSIONS   OF  THE   DEVIL.  85 

TALE  XLLX. 

OF  THE  ILLUSIONS  OF  THE  DEVIL. 
PiDi.ni  the  historian  of  the  Longol>ardi,*  relates:  that 
i'"C;i!i.  king  ui"  t.lti-  1 1  im^ii  inns,  was  besieging  a  castle  in 
the  town  of  Julius,  t  called  Sondat.  Eosimila,  the  duchess  of 
tiaf  plaes,  hail  four  sous  and  two  thai  filters.  When  she  per- 
«iveii  that  Conan  was  a  wonderfully  handsome  man,  she 
sent  him  a  secret  message,  saying,  "  If  you  will  take  me 
1  wife  I  will  surrender  the  castle  to  you,"  The  king 
"  «ced  and  the  castle  was  given  up ;  but  the  sons, 
lant  at  the  treacherous  conduct  of  their  mother,  fled 
-.    Conan,  however,  adhering  to  his  promise,  married 

n  the  following  day.      But  the  nest  morning 

tials,  he  delivered  her  to  twelve  Hungarian 

e  publicly  abused  and  mocked ;    and  on  the 

day,  he  commanded  her  to  be  stabbed,  arid  transfixed 

the  throat  downward,  observing,  "that  a  wife  who 

betrayed  her  country  to  gratify  her  evil  passions,  ought 

to  possess  such  a  husband.' 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  Conan  is  the  devil,  who  beeiegod  a  castle, 
that  is,  the  human  heart.  Rosimila  is  any  woman  who 
wanders  from  the  path  of  rectitude.  The  children  are 
those  virtues  which  leave  the  breast  when  evil  enters ;  and 
ihe  Hungarian  soldiers  are  the  vices  into  which  it  falls. 

*  "Paulus,  Unit  i",  Pmilirs  I>i,ii'nr.i].-;.  Hit-  ln'.-lorian  i-fth:  l.'»i{plar<'f. 
i<  quoted.  Ho  was  cluuicelltr  of  Dtsidcrius,  tko  lust  kiny  of  tht 
Ltfilmis:  with  whom  he  was  taken  en|.tivc  by  UlmrleiiiEigne.  The 
fcntorj  hero  referred  I"  i-  untitled  <ii-.sTA  l-ONUOiiAFtTjOiii'v," — Warton. 

t  Warton  nulla  it  "  Fi/ro-Jul!"  heaiuse  the  Latin  is  "in  fora  Julii." 
In  ill  probability  the  same  place  is  meant  as  ill  thu  following  extract 
f'nm  the  old  play  of  j-'riiinon  ad  CtunHiuttra : — "  In  Hie  cylie  of  Julio 
(«omelinie  under  the  dominion  of  t.Wvitjnt.  kin;.;  of  limn/ark,  aud 
*■■»),"  &c  1578. 

[The  aiime  of  the  town  here  spoken  of  is  Forum  Julii  fcomjuir'- 
«aMatkel  Drayton,  Marhit  Ui^w-ortli,  ac),  mid  c(iiiM.'<jiitritly  Warton 
i>  more  nearly  right  in  hi?  ivriin:^  of  it  than  Mi.  Swsm.  There  were 
«o  tonus  of'thia  nalne.  one  liie  modern  I' rein?  near  the  month  ol"  the 
^gens,  in  the  south  of  Vt-.^-.e-;  tlie  other  (Civiikd  di  Friuli)  about 
foitj  mile»  north-west  from  Trieste  — En.] 


GBSTA    BOMAN"B0SL 


EM     Ota!   To    A    JUBT  JUDGE. 

Yausbiv*  informs  us  Him  the  BapetarZaiuMiwiidoiKw 

by  ^liii-li    if  any  one  abawd  a  virgin,  In1  :imuld  lose  both 

!'  happened  that  hieuiiiy  bob  trespassed  in  this 

immtmr  «it.h  itn   il.i;..  .:!;  widow,  wk>.'  mime- 

pMMmsB  rf  the  —ym'i  no  (J 

HMfce    tbua:  -My  Lord,    you    have  rightetiuaW 

(iiai   In-    ii  .  ngbt.     Tour 

i 'ill y  buti  liar  illnibiiuinii'.-d    mv  daughter ;    command  him  to 

"■  Jim, i&had       3  i.i-M-  >i truis  greatly  distressed  flmmm«i'Pi  ■ 

but  be  gave  instant  orders  rejecting  the  punislimtaii  of 

Uu  BOB.     On   thU.  two  uobletneu   observed  :  "  The  young 

■up    only  child,  and   heir  to  the  throne  :  it  were 

i!n|pi'.pii.r.  if  fo]  thu  )i'  should  luae  his  eyes."      The  emperor 

uuaweced,  "  I*  it  not  evident  to  yon  that  I  myself  ordained 

tin»  VL-ry  law  ?  disgraceful  as  the  occasion  is,  it  may  break 

but  out  my  r-jsolution.  My  mm  tun 
tiritt  to  transgress  the  law,  and  therefore  shall  be  the  first 
UjMJargQ  lin:  penalty."  "Sire."  said  the  nobleman, 
"  1st  na  ijiiploiv  yon.  jbr  the  Bake  of  Heaven,  to  forgive  the 
<  i  root  of  your  child."  rJomewliut  subdued  by  the  urgency 
of  their  entreaties,  the  emperor,  after  a  moment's  pause, 
said,  "  My  friends,  liati-n  U>  me  :  my  eyes  are  the  eyes  of 
my  son  ;  and  bis  are  in  like  manner  mine.  Pluck  out, 
llmrefore,  my  right  eye,  and  lot  him  surrender  bis  left; 
thus,  the  law  will  l>e  satisfied."  The  paternal  affection  of 
Hi.,  emperor  was  indulged,  and  the  whole  kingdom  extolled 
the  pr'idi'iii'e  ami  justice  of  their  prince* 


•  Zal.,1 


nt  Zelnn  gun,  wa*  the  i>. 

of  juiUoft  a  it  on 


id  nt  t.ho  king  who  performed 
told    by  Valerius  Maximus: 
,  i ■  r r ,,    i,,pc,..|imilIii  ii  w.  mi i ii iii  iTiniisnti|Hi:  urilisi-iniis  It.^ihus 
ill!    IHitln  rin»   lirliilLi-rii   i.TUiiilii.'  dillillliililH,  secundum  jus  ah 

[iiLlriit  |n.)nui  in ■■<■;,- iiul, 'in  iu!i ili'Biiiii] tn lo  rctnitteret.  ali- 
i-iuiu'nin  it.  Ail  iilliiniiiii  |.r,'i'iliiiH  j.M|ni!i  <>vicliiH,  aim  jirins. 
i  wuli  iiriitu,  imiitii  viiifiiili  ulriijiii'  rcliijiiit.  Ha  iJeliitum 
modiuii  li-jri  fill  li<  lit,  ii'i.iiitaliH  ml  mini  bill  teni]>praiiii?nti>, 
laisL'riciirdi'iu  lHilri.-iu  ft  i iisluia  k^ioiiitutuiii  partitus."— 
5,  Es.  a. 
;us  was  uot  a  "  king"  but  11  lawgiver  of  the  Locrianfl. — En.] 


OF   EXTORTION. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ ;  the  eyes  are  divine 
grace  and  eternal  happiness,  which  he  who  sinned  would 
hare  totally  lost,  hail  not  the  compassion  and  consequent 
aulTcrings    of  tha   Son   of    God   meliorated  the   condign 

pilniaJiment. 


OF   EXTOETION. 

Jkephus  mentions  that  Tiberius  Caesar,  when  asked  why 
the  governors  of  provinces  remained  so  long  in  office, 
answered  by  a  fable.  "  I  have  seen,"  said  he,  "  an  infirm 
wo  covered  with  ulcers,  grievously  tormented  by  a 
swarm  of  flics.  When  I  was  going  to  drive  them  away 
ibr  him  with  a  flap,  he  said  to  me,  '  The  means  by  which 
you  think  to  relieve  me  would,  in  effect,  promote  tenfold 
«offering.  For  by  driving  away  the  flies  now  saturated 
with  my  blood,  I  should  afford  an  opportunity  to  those 
that  were  empty  and  hungry  to  supply  their  place.  And 
whe  doubts  that  the  biting  of  a  hungry  insect  is  not  ten 
thousand  times  more  painful  than  that  of  one  completely 
P'rjred — unless  the  person  attacked  be  stone,  and  not 
flt*h/"« 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  governors  who  are  already  enriched  by 
plunder  are  less  likely  to  continue  their  oppression  than 
they  who  are  poor  and  needy. 

*  I  have  mot  with  a  similar  story  in  a  modem  book  of  fables  under 

ill.;  Hawing  form: — 

"One  hot  day  in  Bummer,  a  boar,  covered  with  wounds,  threw 

Mmnrlf  l-n.ni.-iLf.il  tjii-  shadow  of  u  liir.u-(-  tn.-c,  "here  he  was  griuvonsly 
t'lfmcnted  by  innumerable  swarms  of  Hies.  A  fox,  who  was  passing 
'■J'.ilrir*  ni-itr,  uml  iriiad-riui  urrdlv  oliVivd  in  dnv</  away  the  i.i.ii.im.-,:- 
iiBMtt.     'Let  them  aloin.-,  my  fiii/nd.'  said  the  boar;  'these  flies  are 

shitlul,  ari.l  iikllIj].-  in  d«  iin'  i Ii  further  injury.     But  if  they  are 

~  I  >- 1 H- ._-!-,  o]]'.  ,-itlu-rs  will  sopph  i  ln-i  i-  |iU,rLs,  and  at  this  rate,  I  shall  not 
!>"*»  drop  of  Mood  lfft  in'myWy.'" 

[Tliia  etorv  is  only  slightly  varied  from  that  in  Aristotle's 
««tone,  lik.  ii"  oh.  20,  p,  1393.— Ed.] 


GESTA   ROMAKORUM. 

TALE     L  I  I . 

OP   FIDELITY. 


I 


Valerius"  records  that  Faluns  redeemed  certain  captives 
liy  the  promise  of  a  sum  of  money;  which  when  the 
senato  refused  to  confirm,  he  sold  all  the  property  he 
with  the  produce  paid  down  the  stipulated 
ing  less  to  be  poor  in  lands  than  poor  in  hooesty. 


AMPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  Fiibiua  is  Christ,  who,  at  the  expense  of 
life,  ransomed  mankind  from  eternal  death. 


TALE    LIII. 

OP    GOOD   RULERS,    WHO   ARE    NOT   TO    BE    CHANGED. 

Valerius  Maximum  states  that,  when  all  the  Syracusans 
desired   the  death  of  Dionysiua,  king  of  Sicily,  a  single 

*  The  occasion  of  this  DoMe  proceeding  il  thna  detailed  : — "Captivofl 
nb  Annibale  inlerposita  pactiriiio  iiunmioruin  roceporat.  Qui  onm  a 
senatu  non  prjpatarontur,  mieso  in  Urbew  lili",  fundum,  <|uein  unicum 
possidebat,  vcndidit,  t-jiiwjiiii  prelinm  AuiiiUsli  prix-iiius  numeravit. 
Si  ad  oalculoa  reiu.vliu-,  piirvtmi,  utpote  septem  jugeribus,  ot  hoc  in 
Fupiuia  uddictia,  redact  nm  :  si  auiino  erogantis,  omni  peouuiu  nmjua. 
Se  cniin  patrini'iiiii.  i-jimm  |mtri,irn  lidi.i,  inopeiu  tsse  inaluit:  eo 
quidem  mujore  cominembili'nn  , .- 1 1 3 ■  ■  ■  ]  pr^ni  stiiilii  w-rtius  indicium  »c 
supra  vires  uiti,  qimm  viribua  ex  faciii  uti.  Altor  mini  quod  potest, 
prieatat :  alter  etiam  plua  quam  potent."— Valerius  Maximum,  lib.  iv. 
c  8,  Ex.  1. 

The  Fabiui  of  whom  thia  ia  told  is  Fabius  Maximcs. 

t  The  anecdote,  is  thus  rrcnrdi-'d  by  the  histm-hm  :  "  Se.nectutia 
nltiiuni qugL'dum,  Svnu'u.-iiiiM  omnibus  lli"]iy.-ii  n  runni  <  xiluni,  propter 
nimiam  mom m  acerb itatein  et  intolerabilia  orient.  iolii  expulenlibua. 
sola  quotidio  ujatutino  Lrinpore.  dens,  ut  iiicoluiiiis  su?  sibi  siipcrsi.es 
I'ssot,  orabat.  Quod  obi  is  cognovit,  con  debitani  sibi  aduiiratus 
benevoleutiam,  arcoaeit  earn,  et  quid  tin  In»;  aid  .jrw  mui  mtiTilj>  fanerti, 
interrogavit.  Turn  ilia,  ettta  '.•/,  inquit,  rniio  pr«i-i,*ili  im-i,  piiftla  ttaiia, 
cum  gravem  tyraumim  !nvnr.  i.-ijis.  'mtrro--  <.itpi'<>".tiii  :  if  10  iitlt-rfncto,  ali- 
quanlo  tetrior  orcein  occuptitit.     I:'j:a  ■fr.-fi:  jinii  i  duudnalionem  laagni 


OF   GOOD    RULEBS. 

woman,  of  great  age,  every  morning  entreated  the  gods 
to  continue  his  life  beyond  hers.  Dionysiua,  surprised  at 
A»  solitary  exception,  inquired  the  reason.  She  answered, 
"When  I  was  a  girl,  and  governed  by  a  tyrant,  I  wished 
for  bis  removal,  and  presently  wo  obtained  a  worse  instead. 
Having  got  rid  of  him,  a  worse  still  succeeded ;  and  there- 
fore, tinder  the  justifiable  apprehension  that  your  place 
may  be  filled  up  by  yet  a  worse,  I  pray  earnestly  for  your 
longer  continuaoee."  "  Dionysius,  hearing  this,  gave  lier 
"io  farther  trouble.f 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  be  not  desirous  of  change.    God  is  merciful 
*»d  gracious — be  content  with  His  government. 


■titan  U  tuperioribus  importuniorein  habere  etxpimut 
Itaque  fimPTij,  ne,  si  tu  /urn's  alisumptus,  delerior  in  locum 
'**i™  succcdat,  caput  mearn  pro  iua  salute  denoceo.  Tam  facetam 
^ldaciaru  Dionysius  punire  crubuit."—  Vol.  Max.  lib.  tl  c.  2,  Ex.  2, 

This  must  remind  the  leader  of  Muoq'k  fable  of  the  frogs  who 
^Ctiied  a  king.      Which  is  the  original?     It  occurs  among  some  trana- 
'at«i  Dutch  (ah k a,  by  Do  Wilt,  under  the  title,  of  A  Woman  praying 
f**T  lie  long  Life  of  Dionysiua  tile  Tyrant     Sec  the  Appendix. 
*  The  sentiment  is  similar  to  that  of  Shakipeare : — 

"  And  makes  ns  rather  bear  those  ills  wo  have. 
Than  fly  to  others  that  we  know  not  of." 

BamUt,  Act  iii.  8c.  I. 


j  III. 

"tjuidam  abbas  dciiit  monachis  snis  tria  ferenla.  Diierunt 
ehi,  late  parum  dat  nobis.  Eogemus  Deum  ut  cilo  laoristiir. 
fe  ex  hoc  causa,  she  ex  alia,  mortniu)  est.  Subatitutus  est  alios, 
ni  M  tamen  dedit  duo  ferenla.  Irati  monachi  contristati  diierunt, 
'tine  mag-is  est  orandum,  quia  unnra  ferculum  subtraetum  est,  Dens 
"Ubtrahat  oi  vitam  suatti.  Tandem  mortuus  est.  Substitutes  est  t<r- 
tiu,  qui  duo  fercula  subtrahat,  Irati  monachi  diierunt,  Iste  pessi- 
urn*  ett  inter  oranee,  quia  fanii-  nr»  int':rfi:eit ;  rogemus  Deum  quod 
rib>  aoriatnr.  Dixit  nnus  monnchus,  Rogo  Deum  quod  det  ei  vitam 
tagun,  et  manu  teocat  eum  nobis.  Alii  odmirati  qiuerebont  qrmre 
u"  dim-ret :  qui  ait,  Vide  quod  primus  fuit  mains,  secundu*  pfjrir,  iste 
F-inst;  timed  quod  cum  moriuus  /uerit  alius  psjor  succedit  qui 
Miliu  not  fame  perimtt,  Unde  eolet  dici,  Seilde  corned  te  betere" 
[Seldom  comes  a  better.] 


GESTA   K0HA50EU1L 


O*    A   CELESTIAL    KINGDOM. 

The  Emperor  Frederic  IL  constructed  a  curious  marble 
gate  at  the  entrance  of  Capua.  It  stood  above  a  fountain 
.if  running  water  ;  and  upon  it  the  statues  of  the  emperor 
aud  two  of  his  judge*  were  sculptured.  In  a  half  circle 
over  the  head  of  the  right-hand  judge  waa  inscribed  as 
follows :  "■  He  who  regards  his  own  safety  and  innocence, 
let  him  enter  here."  Similarly  over  the  head  of  tbe  left- 
hand  judge  ap]>eared  this  scroll,  "  Banishment  or  imprison- 
ment is  the  doom  of  the  envious."  In  a  semicircle  over 
the  emperor's  head  was  written,  "  Those  whom  I  made 
miserable,  I  recompensed."  In  like  manner,  above  the 
gate  was  inscribed,  "  In  Caesar's  reign  I  became  the 
guardian  of  the  kingdom."  • 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God ;  the  marble  gate  if 
tbe  Church,  which  is  placed  above  a  running  fountain — 
that  is,  above  the  world,  which  Scots  like  a  water-course. 
The  judges  indicate  Mary,  the  mother  of  Jesus,  and  John 
the  Evangelist. 


I   ilUJIU 


OF    THE    REVOCATION    OF   A    BANISHED   SINNER. 

A  ceutain  great  king  had  a  handsome  son,  who  proved 
himself,  on  all  occasions,  wise,  bold,  and  courteous.  The 
same  king  had  luiir  daughters  also,  whoso  names  were 
Justice,  Truth,  Mercy,  and  Peace.     Now,  the  king,  being 

*  "I  wonder  there  are  not  more  romance  extant  on  the  lives  of  the 

trora  in  Germany ;  many  of  whom,  to  say  no  marc,  were 

is  cruaadefl.     There  is  a  romance  in  old  German  rhyme, 

culled    TEl'liliUANK,  on   Maximilian    the    First,   written  liv  JLkliior 

PflnzinE,  his  chaplain.     Printed  at  Nuremberg  in  1517."— WabtoK. 


OF  THE   REVOCATION    OF   A   BANISHED   SINNER.       91 

very  desirous  of  procuring  for  his  son  a  suitable  partner, 
despatched  a  messenger  in  search  of  a  beautiful  virgin.  to 
wlom  he  should  he  united.  At  last,  the  daughter  of  tint 
King  of  Jerusalem  was  selected,  and  married  to  the  young 
|>rince,  who  was  much  struck  with  the  beauty  of  his  bride. 
At  this  time  there  was  in  the  court  a  servant  whom  the 
ting's  son  principally  trusted,  and  to  whom  lie  had  con- 
Mad  the  care  of  oue  of  his  province*.  This  man,  in  return 
for  the  benefits  accumulated  upon  him,  seduced  the  lady, 
taA  wasted  the  country  over  which  he  was  placed.  When 
the  husband,  therefore,  knew  of  his  wife's  infidelity,  he 
was  overwhelmed  with  sorrow,  and  repudiated  her  with 
the  loss  of  every  honour.  Thus  cireamatanced,  she  fell 
into  extreme  poverty ;  and,  reduced  to  despair  by  the 
wretchedness  of  her  condition,  walked  from  place  to  plac»; 
fogging  her  bread,  and  wishing  for  the  death  that  came 
not  to  her  relief.  But  at  length  the  husband,  compas- 
sionating her  distress,  sent  messengers  to  recall  her  to  his 
court.  "  Come,  lady,"  they  said,  "  come  in  perfect  safety. 
Thy  lord  wishes  thy  return ;  fear  nothing."  Yet  she 
refused,  and  exclaimed,  "  Tell  my  lord  that  I  would  wil- 
lingly come  to  him,  but  I  am  unable  to  do  so.  If  he  asks 
■ky,  say,  in  compb'ance  with  an  imperious  law.  If  a  man 
tturry,  and  bis  wife  prove  an  adult  res»,  he  shall  give  her  a 
writing  of  divorcement ;  but  from  that  hour,  she  can  be  ni> 
Iwger  his  wife.  To  me  such  a  writing  has  been  given— 
for,  alas !  I  am  an  adultress  ;  therefore,  it  is  impossible  for 
We  to  return  to  my  lord."  "  But,''  replied  the  messengers, 
ir  lord  is  greater  than  the  law  which  bo  made  himself : 
id  since  he  is  disposed  to  show  mercy  towards  yon,  wo 
lest  that  you  may  properly  comply  with  his  wishes, 
ire  from  further  punishment  or  reproach."  "How 
11 1  know  that  ?  "  said  the  lady ;  "  if  my  beloved  would 
re  me  of  it ;  if  he  would  deign  to  come  and  kiss  mo 
i  the  kiss  of  bis  lip,  then  should  I  feel  certain   of 


a  the  messengers  communicated  to  the  prince  what 
;ed  between  them  and  his  afflicted  wife,  bo  called 
r  the  noblemen  of  his  kingdom,  and  deliberated 
e  measures  it  became  him  to  adopt.  After  mature 
ition,  they  determined  that  some  man  of  ex  pencil'*: 


92  OESTA  ROMANOnUM. 

and  judgment  should  be  sent  to  persuade  her  to  return. 
But  thoy  who  answered  this  description  refused  to  under- 
take the  office  ;  and  the  husband,  in  hie  extremity,  de- 
spiitched  once  more  a  immi'iipir,  whom  ho  commissioned  to 
tmcak  thus  :  "  What  can  I  do  for  you?  There  is  not  a  man 
in  my  dominions  who  will  execute  my  wishes!  "  These 
words  increased  the  anguish  id'  the  unfortunate  lady,  and 
she  wept  bitterly.  Her  condition  was  related  to  the  prince, 
and  he  earnestly  besought,  his  father  to  give  him  permis- 
sion to  bring  back  his  wife,  and  to  assuage  her  sorrows. 
The  king  acquiesced—"  Go,"  said  he,  "  go  now  in  thy 
might,  and  reinstate  her  in  tho  scat  from  which  she  has 
fallen."  Tho  messengers  were  then  ordered  to  return  and 
apprize-  her  of  the  purposed  visit.  But  tho  prince's  elder 
sister,  that  is  to  say,  Justice,  understanding  what  was 
meditated,  hastened  to  her  father,  and  said,  "  My  Lord, 
tbou  art  just.  You  decided  rightly  C' incoming  that  harlot. 
You  properly  sanctioned  the  writing  of  divorcement, 
whereby  she  eonhl  no  longer  be  my  brother's  wife ;  there- 
fore, to  the  law  let  her  appeal.  And  if,  in  violation  of 
justice,  you  act  thus,  be  assured  that  I  will  no  longer  be 
accounted  your  daughter."  The  second  sister,  who  was 
called  Truth,  then  suid,  "  My  father,  she  h;is  spoken  truly. 
You  have  adjudged  this  woman  an  aduliress:  if  you  per- 
mit her  to  return,  you  destroy  the  very  essence  of  truth, 
and  therefore  I,  too,  will  no  more  fulfil  the  offices  of  » 
daughter."  But  the  third  sister,  called  Mercy,  hearing 
what  had  been  said  by  tho  other  two,  exclaimed,  "Oh,  my 
Lord,  I  also  am  thy  daughter :  forgive  the  offence  of  this 
repentant  woman.  If  thou  wilt  not,  thou  abandonest 
Mercy,  and  she  wiil  never  again  acknowledge  thee  her 
father."  Tho  fourth  sister,  whose  name  was  Peace,  ter- 
rified at  the  discord  between  her  parent  and  sisters,  desired 
to  leave  the  country,  and  fled. 

Justioo  and  Truth,  however,  relinquished  not  their" 
purpose;  and,  putting  into  their  father's  hands  a  nnkedj 
sword,  said,  "  My  Lord,  wo  present  to  you  the  sword  oM 
Justice.  Take  it,  and  strike  the  harlot  who  has  wrongeM 
our  brother."  But  Mercy,  rushing  forward,  snatched  the; 
weapon  from  their  grasp.  "  Enough,  enough,"  cried  she 
"long  have  you  reigned,  and  your  iuclinationB  have  beec= 


OF   RF.MEMBERISG   DEATH. 


N 


,Fo»r  only  law.     Now   forbear ;  it  is   fit  that   my  wiehea 
should  sometimes  be  listened  to.     Eenieinl-tr  that  J.  ('■" 
Mi  the  daughter  of  the  king."      To   this  Justice   made 
answer,  "  Thou  hast  said  well :  we  have  reigned  long :  ami 
Jong  will  we  preservo  our  authority.     But  since  there  is 
this  discord,  call  our  brother,  who  is  wise  in  all  things  ; 
and  let  him  judge  between  us."  The  proposal  was  assented 
to.    They  showed   him  the  grounds  of  their  altercation, 
and  explained  how  Justice  and  Truth   pertinaciously   de- 
manded the  infliction  of  the  law,  while  Mercy  sought  a 
free  forgiveness.      "My  beloved  sisters,"  said  the  prince, 
"  I  am  little  satisfied  with  the  flight  of  my  sister  Peace. 
whom  your  unbeseeming  strife  has  banished.     This  ought 
not  to  be,  and  shall  not.     And  as  for  my  adulterous  wile, 
i  am  prepared  to  undergo  her  punishment  myself."     "If 
this  be  your  determination,"  observed  Justice,  "  we  cannot 
oppose  you,  my  brother."     Then  turning  towards  Mercy, 
he  said,  "  Use  your  endeavour  to  restore  my  wife.     But 
should  I  receive  her,  and  she  again  falls,  do  you  design  to 
renew  your  intercession''"     "Sot,"  said  the  other,  "unless 
sfce  he  truly  penitent."     The  prince  then  conducted  back 
his  sister   Peace,   and   caused   each  of   the  others  to  em- 
trace  her,  in  turn.     Concord  being  thus  re-established,  he 
hastened  to  his  erring  wife.     She  was  received  with  every 
honour,  and  ended  her  days  in  peace. 


APPLICATION". 


My  beloved,  the  king  is 
i»  Christ;  and  the  wife  is  t] 
Section  with  the  devil. 


r  heavenly  Father ;  the  i 
soul,  made  impure  by  w 


OF    REMEMBERING    DEATH. 


*•  certain  prince  derived  great  pleasure  from  the  chase. 
"  happened,  on  one  occasion,  that  a  merchant  accidentally 
l';jwii:il  the  same  path ;  and  observing  the  beauty,  afla- 
™'ity,  and  Bplendour  of  the  prince,  he  said  in  bis  heart, 


91  GESTA   BOMANORUM. 

"  Oh,  ye  heavenly  powere !  that  man  has  received  too 
many  favours,  lie  is  handsome,  hold,  and  graceful  ;  and 
even  hie  very  retinue  are  equipped  with  splendour  and 
comfort."  Under  the  impression  of  such  feelings,  he 
addressed  himself  to  one  oi'  the  attendants.  "  My  friend," 
said  he.  "  tell  iin-  whu  your  master  is?  "  "  Tie  is."  replied 
the  other,  "the  despotic  lord  of  an  extensive  territory; 
his  treasury  is  filled  with  silver  and  gold;  and  his  slaves 
are  exceedingly  numerous."  "God  has  been  bountiful  to 
him,"  said  the  merchant ;  "  he  is  more  beautiful  than  any 
one  I  ever  beheld ;  and  he  is  as  wise  as  any  I  have  met 
with."  Now,  the  person  with  whom  he  conversed  related 
to  his  master  all  that  the  merchant  had  said;  and  as  the 
prince  turned  homeward  about  the  hour  of  vespers,  he 
besought  the  merchant  to  tarry  there  all  night.  The 
entreaty  of  a  potentate  is  a  command  ;  and  the  merchant, 
therefore,  though  with  some  reluctance,  returned  to  the 
city.  When  he  had  entered  the  palace,  the  prodigious 
display  of  wealth,  the  number  of  beautiful  halls,  orna- 
mented in  every  part  with  gold,  surprised  and  delighted 
him.  But  supper- time  approached,  and  the  merchant,  by 
express  command  of  the  prince,  was  seated  next  his  wife. 
This  honour,  and  her  beauty  and  gracious  manner,  so  en- 
raptured the  poor  tradesman,  that  he  secretly  exclaimed, 
"  Oh,  Heaven !  the  prince  ponsesses  everything  that  his 
heart  wishes  ;  he  has  a  I  n.-a  1 1 1  i  1'u  1  wife,  fair  daughters,  and 
brave  sons.  Ilia  family  establishment  is  too  extensive." 
Ah  he  thus  thought,  the  meat  was  placed  before  him;  but 
what  was  his  consternation  to  observe  that  it  was  de- 
posited in  the  skull  of  a  human  being,  and  served  from 
thence  to  the  prince  and  his  guests  on  silver  dishes. 
Honor- struck  at,  what  he  saw,  the  merchant  said  to  him- 
self, "Alas,  1  fear  1  shall  lose  my  head  in  this  place  !  " 

In  the  mean  time  the  lady  of  the  mansion  comforted 
him  as  much  as  she  could.  The  night  passed  on,  and  he 
was  shown  ijito  a  bed-chamber  hung  round  with  caul- 
drons; and  in  one  corner  of  the  room  several  lights  were 
burning.  As  soon  as  he  had  entered,  the  door  was 
fastened  without;  and  the  merchant  was  left  alone  in 
the  chamber.  Casting  his  eyes  around  him,  he  distia- 
;uiahed  in  the  corner  where  the  light  was  two  dead  men 


OF   REMEMBERING    DEATH. 


95 


kcging  hy  the  arms  from  the  ceiling.  This  shocking 
circumstance  so  agonized  him,  that  ho  was  incapable  oi 
anjoying  repose.  In  the  morning  he  got  up.  "  Alas  !  " 
cried  he,  "  they  will  assuredly  hang  rue  by  tho  side  of 
theee  murdorod  wTctebos."  When  the  prince  had  risen, 
be  commanded  the  merchant  to  be  brought  into  his 
presence.  "  Friend,"  said  he,  "  what  portion  of  my  family 
establishment  best  pleases  you?"  i'he  man  answered, 
"I  am  well  pleased  with  everything,  my  Lord,  except 
that  my  food  was  served  to  me  out  of  a  human  head — a 
-!;!il  bii  sickening  that  I  could  touch  nothing.  And  when 
1  would  have  slept,  my  repose  was  destroyed  by  tho 
terrific  objects  which  were  exhibited  to  me.  And,  there- 
in»-, for  the  love  of  God,  sutler  mo  to  depart."  "  Friend," 
replied  the  prince,  "  the  head  out  of  which  you  were 
served,  and  which  stood  exactly  opposite  to  my  wife — 
iiiv  beautiful  but  wicked  wife! — is  the  head  of  a  certain 
'like.  I  will  tell  you  why  it  was  there.  He  whom  1 
have  jiniiishi'il  in  so  exemplary  a  manner,  I  perceived  in 
the  act  of  dishonouring  my  bed.  Instantly  prompted  by 
an  tmcon  troll  able  desire   uf  vengeance,  I  separated  his 

Rid  from  his  body.  To  remind  the  woman  of  her  shame, 
b.  day  I  command  this  memento  to  be  placed  before 
\  in  tho  hope  that  her  repentance  and  punishment  may 
i-ii  her  crime.  A  son  of  the  deceased  duke  slew  two 
my  kindred,  whose  bodies  you  observed  hanging  in  the 
dumber  which  had  been  appropriated  to  you.  Every  day 
I  punctually  visit  their  corpses,  to  keep  alive  the  fury 
*:ii<:li  ought  to  animate  me  to  revenge  their  doaths.  And 
recalling  tho  adultery  of  my  wife,  and  the  miserable 
diBgfcta  of  my  kindred,  I  feel  that  there  is  no  joy 
Werved  for  me  in  this  world.  Now,  then,  go  in  peace, 
Mil  in  future  judge  not  of  the  life  of  any  man  until 
yon  know  more  of  its  true  nature."  The  merchant 
gladly  availed  himself  of  the  permission  to  depart ; 
«i<i  returned  with  greater  satisfaction  to  tho  toils  of 
taffic* 

*  "Caiton  haa  the  history  nf  Albrone,  a  king  of  the  Lnml)iiriis, 

*ti"  timing  i>ijin.|ii«re<l  unotlier  king,  '  htilu  iumje  wytb  hym  Hoea- 
wrandeliis  wyf  in  <;uritvvyti!,  I.ut  nl"t,:r  ]■.-  tmik  liyr  to  liyawyfe,and 
lie  djdi!  make  a  euppe  of  tlic  akulle  of  taut  kjugu,  aud  of       *  ' 


■ 


GESTA   ROMANORUM, 


a  rrr.  (cation. 


My  beloved,  the  prince  is  intended  to  represent  any 
good  Christian,  whose  wife  is  the  soul  that  sins,  and  being 
punished,  remembers  its  iniquity  and  amends.  The 
adulterer  is  the  devil ;  to  cut  off  his  head  is  to  destroy  our 
vices.  The  slain  kinsmen  of  the  prince  are  love  to  God 
and  to  our  neighbour,  which  the  sin  of  our  first  parent 
annihilated.  The  merchant  is  any  good  prelate  or  con- 
fessor, to  whom  the  truth  should  always  be  exposed. 


TALE  LVII. 

OF   PERFECT   LIFE. 

When  Titus  was  emperor  of  Eome,  he  made  a  decree  that 
the  natal  day  of  bis  first-born  Hon  should  be  held  sacred: 
and  that  whu-oovor  violated  it  by  any  kind  of  labour  should 
be  put  to  death.  This  edict  being  promulgated,  he  called 
Virgil,  the  learned  man,*  to  him,  and  said,  "  Good  friend,  I 

goldo  and  sylner,  and  dranttu  out  of  it.'" — Gold.  Lrg.  f.  ecclxiivii.  8. 
edit.  14'J3.  This  is  nil  lli-tori'::il  lar't,  and  Iimv  lir  li'tllid  ill  liit'luju's 
!h::hi,e  .in.;  I'M  of  Hie  liumnn  liui/iin;  vol.'viii.  page  129.  1811. 
"This,  by  the  way,  is  the  old  I tuliuu  tragedy  <>f  Messer  Giovanni 
Knedlni,  plamu'd  iin  llio  model  of  the  anl.initu,  and  acted  in  the 
[!iii'r.-|]ai  Gar.l.  ii>.  at  t-'lnrence,  bufore  Lira  the  Tenth  and  tiis  Court  in 
the  year  1510.  llaveiiant  has  also  a  tragedy  .>n  the  same  subject, 
.'iiildd  AuioviSE,  Hintj  •>/  Hit.  !.nmh.inU.  hit  Tragedy. 

•'  A  most  sanguinary  scene  in  Siiuktvifvaru's  Tins  AvnaoNICFS,» 
incident  in  Irryd.'ti's,  or  Uni'ciife-'H  TakuklIi  am]  SifirsMONDA,  and  the 
.■utastroplli.'  ft"  tin-  Waul  il'ul  metrical  iolnnTKV  nt  Ihi!  Laiiy  op  Faqdkl. 
arc  founded  on  the  same  Inn-rid  ideas  of  inhuman  retaliation  and 
ravage  revenge :  but  in  tlio  bat  two  pieces,  tin:  eircu  instances  are  «i 
ingeniously  imuirined,  as  to  lose  n  considerable  degree  of  their  almeily, 
and  to  be  productive  of  the  most  patln  tic  and  in;. ■rating  situation!." 
— Wakton. 

[Tale  CXLIII.  terminates  with  a  similar  piece  of  advice  to  that 
riven  in  this.— En.] 

'   The  Latin  original  snys,   Mi-ii-Un-n    Viryilium,  Master  VirgiL 


OF  PERFECT  LIFE. 

have  established  a  certain  law,  but  as  offences  may  fre- 
quently be  committed  without  being  discovered  by  the 
ministers  of  justice,  I  desire  you  to  frame  some  curious 
piece  of  art,  which  may  reveal  to  me  tvi.Ty  transgressor  of 
the  law."  Virgil  replied,  "  Sire,  your  will  shrill  be  accom- 
plished." lie  straightway  constructed  a  magicstatue,  and 
caused  it  to  be  erected  in  the  midst  of  the  city.  By  virtue 
of  the  secret  powers  with  which  it  was  invested,  it  commu- 
nicated to  the  emperor  whatever  offences  were  committed 
in  secret  on  that  day.  And  thus,  by  the  accusation  of  the 
statue,  an  infinite  number  of  persons  were  convicted. 
Now,  there  was  a  certain  carpenter,  called  Focus,  who 
pursued  his  occupation  every  day  alike.  Once,  as  he  lay 
ill  bed,  his  thoughts  turned  upon  the  accusations  of  the 
statue,  and  the  multitudes  which  it  had  caused  to  perish. 
In  the  morning  ho  clothod  himself,  and  proceeded  to  the 
statue,  which  he  addressed  in  the  following  manner:  "0 
statue  !  statuo  !  because  of  thy  in  luniiat  ions,  many  of  our 
citizens  have  been  apprehended  and  slain.  I  vow  to  my 
God  that,  if  thou  aceusest  me,  I  will  break  thy  head." 
Having  so  said,  he  returned  home.  About  the  first  hour, 
the  emperor,  as  he  was  wont,  despatched  sundry  messen- 
gers to  the  statue,  to  inquire  if  the  edict  had  been  strictly 
complied  with.  After  they  had  arrived,  and  delivered  the 
emperor's  pleasure,  the  statue  exclaimed,  "Friends,  look 
up;    what   see   ye   written   upon   my   forehead?"     They 

"  Vincont  of  Beo.uva.ia  relates  many  wonderful  things,  mirabffita 
tttata,  done  by  tile  poet  Vliu'il.  wijmii  he  n  ]ire~. ml.-  as  a  magician, 
.idiong  others,  lie  .-av."  I.lmt  Virgil  falun/ated  tho.-i'  hra/t  n  sl.atias  at 
Home,  called  Utilmvi'i  tiunini,  which  were  the  gods  of  the  provinces 
conquered  tiy  the  Romans.  Kvery  one  el'  these  statues  held  in  ita  hand 
u  bell,  framed  by  magic;  and  when  nay  province  was  meditating  a 
revolt,  the  statue  or  i ■  1  ■  .■  1  nf  cliat  r.i ■u>i t jv  -truek  lii.-t  dell." — Waeto.y. 

The  following  ingenious  hypntlu-.-is  may  i.'\|ilain  the  eauso  of  the 
necromancy  so  universally  attributed  to  Virgil  during  tho  dark 
ages:— 

"  Maium  ilium,  uvimi  \  ireilii.  I'xemjilaiia  vita:  omnia  Mayuui 
vocont.  At  dun  ejus  (ilia.  Vitgihi  inatrr.juxta  omni-s  Main  dicta  ait: 
"imiino  Made  jint.  r  toil,  Mains,  una  Magus:  iiuh-que  nrHim  exislimn, 
lit  Yirgilins  umijii-it  nrlilm-i  imhiltut  /it)*.*:/;  ervilitim  nit  lib  Elhlttndil 
moiiucli'i  aliisijue  scqinorid  seeuli  t.eri|itiirihus  :  quod  et  llcloga  se[>tiini 
magien  qusednm  sacra  descii |isisset,  el  peritas  esset  muliarum  urtiuia, 
.  I  |.rri"'i]>ili:  avum  liiSJUlits.'  .U.vn:.1  <l[m\'Uii."—Hi~:l.  I'.  17,-ij.  .l/.jr.  ■: 
Car.  A'aaw. 


98  QESTA  EOMANOEUM. 

looked,  and  beheld  three  sentences  which  ran  thna  :  "  Times 
are  altered.  Men  grow  worse.  He  who  speaks  truth  will 
have  his  head  broken."  "  Go,"  said  the  statue,  "  declare  to 
his  majesty  what  you  have  seen  and  read."  The  messen- 
gers obeyed,  and  detailed  the  circumstances  as  they  had 


The  emperor,  therefore,  commanded  his  guard  to  arm, 
and  march  to  the  place  on  which  the  statue  was  erected; 
and  he  further  ordered  that,  if  any  one  presumed  to  molest 
it,  they  should  bind  him  hand  and  foot,  and  drag  him  into 
his  presence.  The  soldiers  approached  the  statue  and  said, 
"  Our  emperor  wills  you  to  declare  who  have  broken  the 
law,  and  who  thi-y  weru  Uiat  1  brwiinied  you."  The  statne 
made  answer,  "  Seize  Focus  the  carpenter  I  Every  day  he 
violates  the  law  and,  moreover,  menaces  me."  Immediately 
Focus  was  apprehended,  and  conducted  to  the  empetor, 
who  said,  "  Friend,  what  do  I  hear  of  thee?  Why  dost 
thou  break  my  law  ?  "  "  My  Lord,"  answered  Focus,  "I 
cannot  keep  it !  for  I  am  obliged  to  obtain  every  day  eight 
pennies,  which,  without  incessant  labour,  I  have  not  tha 
means  of  acquiring."  "And  why  eight  pennies?"  said 
the  emperor.  "  Every  day  through  the  year,"  retained 
the  carpenter,  "  I  am  bound  to  repay  two  pennies  which 
I  borrowed  in  my  youth ;  two  I  lend ;  two  I  lose  ;  and  two 
I  spend."  "  You  must  mako  this  more  clear."  said  the 
emperor.  "  My  Lord,"  he  replied,  "  listen  to  me.  I  in 
bound,  each  day,  to  repay  two  pennies  to  my  father  ;  for, 
when  I  was  a  boy,  my  father  expended  upon  me  daily  the 
like  sum.  Now  he  is  poor,  and  needs  my  assistance,  and 
therefore  I  return  what  I  borrowed  formerly.  Twu  other 
pennies  I  lend  to  my  son,  who  is  pursuing  his  studies;  in 
order  that  if,  by  any  chance,  I  should  fall  into  poverty,  be 
may  restore  the  loan,  just  as  I  have  done  to  his  grandfather. 
Again,  1  lose  two  pennies  every  day  on  my  wife ;  for  she 
is  contradictious,  wilful,  and  passionate.  Now,  becaueeof 
this  disposition,  1  account  whatsoever  is  given  to  her 
entirely  lost.  Lastly,  two  other  pennies  I  eipend  upon 
myself  in  meat  and  drink.  I  cannot  do  with  less;  nor  on 
I  obtain  them  without  unremitting  labour.  You  now  kno* 
the  truth ;  and,  I  pray  you,  give  a  righteoiiB  judgment" 
*•  Friend,"  said  the  emperor,    "  thou  hast 


st  answered  well- 


OF  CONFESSION. 


0» 


Go,  and  labour  earnestly  in  thy  calling."  Soon  after  this  the 
emperor  died,  and  Focus  the  carpenter,  on  account  of  his 
singular  wisdom,  was  elected  in  bin  stead,  by  the  unani- 
mous choice  of  the  whole  nation.  He  governed  as  wisely 
is  he  bad  lived  ;  and  at  his  death,  bis  picture,  bearing  on 
the  head  eight  pennies,  was  repoBJted  among  the  effigies  of 
the  deceased  emperors. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God,  who  appointed  Sun- 
day bs  a  day  of  rest.  By  Virgil  is  typified  the  Holy  ripirit, 
"liich  ordains  a  preacher  to  declare  men's  virtues  and  vices. 
Focus  is  any  good  Christian  who  labours  diligently  in  his 
vocation,  and  performs  faithfully  every  relative  duty. 


TALE     LVIII. 


OF   CONFESSION. 


A  certain  king,  named  Asmodeus,  established  an  ordi- 
nance, by  which  every  malefactor  tak^n  and  bruiight.  betide 
tie  judge  should,  if  he  distinctly  declared  three  truths, 
aguiust  which  no  exception  could  be  taken,  obtain  his 
life  and  property.  It  chanced  that  a  certain  soldier  trans- 
gressed the  law  and  fled.  He  hid  himself  in  a  forest,  and 
there  committed  many  atrocities,  despoiling  and  slaying 
whomsoever  be  could  lay  his  hands  upon.  When  the 
judge  of  the  district,  ascertained  his  haunt,  he  ordered  the 
furest  to  be  surrounded,  and  the  soldier  to  he  seized  and 
brought  bound  to  the  soat  of  judgment.  "  You  know  the 
l»w,"  said  the  judge.  "  I  do,"  returned  the  other  :  "  if  I 
declare  three  unquestionable  truths.  I  shall  bo  free ;  but 
if  not,  I  must  die."  "  True,"  replied  the  judge :  "  take 
then  advantage  of  the  law's  clemency,  or  this  very  day 
yon  shall  not  taste  food  until  you  are  hanged."  "Cause 
«ilence  to  be  kept,"  said  the  soldier.  His  wish  being  corn- 
ed with,  be  proceeded  in  the  following  manner  : — "  The 
it  truth  is  tnis:  I  protest  before  ye  all,  that  from  my 


'. 


100  CESTA  ROMANOHUM. 

youth  up  I  have  been  a  bad  man."  The  judge,  hearing 
this,  said  to  the  bystanders,  "He  says  true?"  Thei 
answered,  "  Else,  he  "had  not  now  been  in  this  situation. : 
"  Go  on,  then,"  said  the  judge ;  "  what  is  the  second 
truth  ? "  "I  like  not,"  exclaimed  he,  "  the  dangerous 
situation  in  which  I  stand."  "  Certainly,"  said  the  judge, 
"  we  may  credit  thee.  Now  then  fen  the  third  truth,  and 
thou  hast  saved  thy  life."  "  Why,"  he  replied,  "  if  I  once 
get  out  of  this  confounded  place,  I  will  never  willingly 
re-enter  it."  "  Amen,"  said  the  judge,  "  thy  wit  haw 
preserved  thee;  go  in  peace."     And  thus  he  was  saved. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ.  The  soldier  is  my 
sinner;  the  judge  is  a  wise  confessor.  If  the  sinner  tun- 
fess  the  truth  in  such  a  manner  as  not  even  demons  c« 
object,  he  shall  be  saved— that  is,  if  he  confess  <al 
repeat. 


OP  TOO  MDCH  PRUIE  ;  AND  HOW  THE  PROUD  ARE  FRE- 
QUENTLY COMPELLED  TO  ENDURE  SOME  NOTABLR 
HUMILIATION. 

When  Jovinian  was  emperor,  he  possessed  very  great 
power ;  and  as  he  lay  in  bed  reflecting  upon  the  extent  M 
his  dominions,  his  heart  was  elated  to  an  extraordinary 
degree.  "  Is  there,"  he  impiously  asked,  "  is  there  any 
cither  gnd  than  me?"     Amid  such  thoughts  he  fell  asleen. 

In  the  morning  he  reviewed  his  troops,  and  said,  "My 
friends,  after  breakfast  wo  will  hunt."  Preparations  bein^ 
made  accordingly,  he  set  out  with  a  large  retinue.  During 
the  chase,  the  emperor  felt  such  extremo  oppression  frm» 
the  heat,  that  he  believed  his  very  existence  depend» 
upon  a  cold  bath.  As  he  anxiously  looked  around,  he  dis- 
covered a  sheet  of  water  at  no  great  distance.     "  Remain 

),"  said  he  to  his  guard,  "  until  I  have  refreshed  myi  " 


>   MUCH   PRIDE. 


101 


in  yonder  stream."  Then  spurring  Us  steed,  he  rode 
tastily  to  the  edge  of  the  water.  AlightiDg,  ho  divested 
himself  of  his  apparel,  and  expeHewiJed.  the  greatest  plea- 
sure from  its  invigorating  Iresliii-ifaJ-aii  1  coolness,  But 
whilst  he  was  thus  employed,  a  person  feiauMorto  him  in 
•very  respect— in  cinlisteiuinco  and  gcst  n  ro  Yimtyi  ■!  I:iin 
self  uu perceived  in  the  emperor's  dress,  and  tlito  mounting 
bis  horse,  rode  off  to  the  attendants.  The  resemblijiict;_.t«. 
the  sovereign  was  such,  that  no  doubt  was  entertbih&L- 
of  the  reality;  and  when  the  sport  was  over  command  was".-' 
issued  for  their  return  to  the  palace. 

Joviniau,  however,  having  quitted  the  water,  sought 
in  every  possible  direction  for  his  horse  and  clothes,  and  to 
his  utter  astonishment  could  find  neither.  Vexed  beyond 
measure  at  thi":  ei  rem  instance  (for  he  was  completely  naked, 
»nd  saw  no  one  near  to  assist  him),  he  began  to  reflect 
upon  what  course  he  should  pursue.  "  Miserable  man 
that  I  am,"  said  he,  "  to  what  a  strait  am  I  reduced ! 
There  is,  I  remember,  a  knight  residing  close  by,  whom 
I  have  promoted  to  a  military  post ;  I  will  go  to  him, 
Md  command  his  attendance  and  service.  I  will  then 
ride  on  to  the  palace  and  strictly  investigate  the  cause  of 
4is  extraordinary  conduct."  Jovinian  proceeded,  naked 
lad  ashamed,  to  the  castle  of  the  aforesaid  knight,  and 
tat  loudly  at  the  gate.  The  porter  inquired  the  cause  of 
the  knocking,  "  Open  the  gate,"  said  the  enraged  emperor, 
"and  you  will  see  whom  I  am."  The  gate  was  opened  ; 
«id  the  porter,  struck  with  the  strange  appearance  be 
exhibited,  replied,  "  In  the  name  of  all  that  is  marvellous, 
That  are  you?"  "I  am,"  said  he,  "Jovinian,  your  em- 
peror ;  go  to  your  lord,  and  command  him  from  me  to 
■Pply  the  wants  of  his  sovereign.  I  have  lost  lioth  horse 
a&d  clothes."  "  Thou  liest,  infamous  ribald ! "  shouted  tin: 
porter;  "just  before  thy  approach,  the  Emperor  Jovinian, 
accompanied  by  the  officers  of  his  household,  entered  the 

eice.  My  lord  both  went  and  returned  with  him;  and 
even  now  sat  with  him  at  meat.  But  because  thou 
iast  callod  thysel  f  the  emperor,  my  lord  shall  know  of  thy 
>re*umption."  The  porter  entered,  and  related  what  had 
Jovinian  was  introduced,  hut  the  knight  retained 
i  slightest  recollection  of  his  master,  although  the 


' 


102  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

emperor  remembered  him:'-,  ''Who  are  you?"  said  the 
former,  "  Jind  what  is.  yoltr.  riaine  ?  "  "I  am  the  Emperor 
Jovinian,"  rej<>iiie<i  1)*-.  v  canst  thou  have  forgotten  me? 
At  such  a  timu.I  preiaiuted  thee  to  a  military  command." 
"  Why,  thQtt.iuoat  audacious  scoundrel,"  said  the  knight, 
"  dareat.tV'"ii  VaTl  thyself  the  emperor?  I  rode  with  him 
myself  t».*tho  palace,  from  whence  I  am  this  moment 
.■rtturijed.  But  thy  impudence  shall  not  go  without  its 
-.«eward.  Flog  him,"  said  he,  turning  to  his  servants, 
■.""flog  him  soundly,  and  drive  him  away."  This  sentence 
was  immediately  executed,  and  the  poor  emperor,  bursting 
into  a  convulsion  of  tears,  exclaimed,  "  Oh,  my  God,  is  it 
possible  that  one  whom  I  have  so  much  honoured  and 
exalted  should  do  this  ?  Not  content  with  pretending 
ignorance  of  my  person,  he  orders  these  merciless  villains 
to  abuse  me  !  "  He  next  thought  within  himself,  "There 
is  a  certain  duke,  one  of  my  privy  councillors,  to  whom 
I  will  make  known  my  calamity.  At  least,  he  will  enable 
me  to  return  decently  to  the  palace."  To  him,  therefore, 
Joviniaxi  proceeded,  and  the  gate  was  opened  at  his  knock. 
But  the  porter,  beholding  a  nuked  man,  exclaimed  in  the 
greatest  amaze,  "  Friend,  who  are  you,  and  why  come  you 
here  in  such  a  guise  ? "  He  replied,  "  1  am  your  emperor ; 
I  have  accidentally  lost  my  clothes  and  my  horse,  and  I 
have  come  for  succour  to  your  lord.  1  beg  you,  therefore, 
to  do  mo  this  errand  to  the  duke."  The  porter,  more  and 
more  astonished,  entered  the  hall,  and  communicated  the 
strange  intelligence  which  he  had  received.  "  Bring  him 
in,"  said  the  duke.  He  was  brought  in,  hut  neither  did  he 
recognize  the  person  of  the  emperor.  "  What  art  thou?" 
he  asked.  "  I  am  the  emperor."  replied  Jovinian,  "  and  I 
have  promoted  thee  to  riches  and  honour,  since  I  made 
thee  a  duke  and  one  of  my  councillors."  "  Poor  mad 
wretch,"  said  the  duke,  "  a  short  time  since  I  returned 
from  the  palace,  where  I  left  the  very  emperor  thou 
assumest  to  be.  But  since  thou  hast  claimed  such  rank, 
thou  siialt  not  escape  unpunished.  Carry  him  to  prison, 
and  feed  him  with  bread  and  water."  Tho  command  was 
no  sooner  delivered  than  obeyed;  and  the  following  day 
's  naked   body   was   submitted  to  tho  lash,  and   he  was 


again  cast  into  the  dungeon. 


OF  TOO   MUCH   TRIDE.  103 

Thus  afflicted,  he  gave  himself  up  to  the  wretchedness 
of  his  untoward  condition.  In  the  agony  of  his  heart,  he 
said,  "  What  shall  I  do  ?  Oh,  what  will  be  my  destiny  ? 
I  am  loaded  with  the  coarsest  contumely,  and  exposed  to 
the  malicious  observation  of  my  people.  It  were  better 
to  hasten  immediately  to  my  palace,  and  there  discover 
myself— my  servants  will  know  me  ;  and  even  if  they  do 
Lot  my  wife  will  know  mo  !  "  Escaping,  therefore,  from 
lis  confinement,  he  approached  the  p.ihuxi  ;. rul  li:.nt  upuii 
the  gate.  "Who  art  thou?"  said  the  porter.  "It  is 
strange,"  replied  the  aggrieved  emperor,  "  it  is  strange 
that  thou  shouldest  nut  know  me  ;  thou,  who  hast  served 
me  so  long  !  "  "  Served  time  .' "  returned  the  porter  indig- 
nantly, "  thou  Host  abominably.  I  have  served  none  but 
ll»  emperor."  "  Why,"  said  the  other,  "  thou  knowest 
that  I  am  he.  Yet,  though  you  disregard  my  words,  go,  I 
implore  you,  to  the  empress  ;  communicate  what  I  will  tell 
thee,  and  by  these  signs  Lid  her  send  the  imperial  rol>es, 
fit  which  sumo  rogue  has  deprived  me.  The  signs  I  tell 
thee  of  are  known  to  none  but  to  ourselves. "  "  In  verity," 
will  the  porter,  "  thou  art  mad :  at  this  very  moment  my 
lord  sits  at  table  with  the  empress  herself.  Nevertheless, 
out  of  regard  for  thy  singular  merits,  I  will  intimate  tby 
Mara  ti  on  within;  and  rest  assured,  thou  wilt  presently 
find  thyself  most  royally  beaten."  The  porter  went 
tccordingly,  and  related  what  he  had  heard.  But  the 
empress  became  very  sorrowful,  and  said,  "  Oh,  my  lord, 
what  am  I  to  think?  The  most  hidden  passages  of  our 
lives  are  revealed  by  an  obscene  fellow  at  the  gate,  and 
raj>eated  to  me  by  the  porter,  on  the  strength  of  which  he 
declares  himself  the  emperor  and  my  espoused  lord  !  " 
H'k'ii  i  lie  fictitious  monarch  was  apprised  oi'  this,  he  CGin- 
wnniied  him  to  lie  brought  in.  He  had  no  sooner  entered 
than  a  large  dog,  which  couched  upon  the  health,  and  had 
Wn  much  cherished  by  him,  flew  at  his  throat,  and,  but 
for  timely  prevention,  would  have  killed  him.  A  falcon. 
«Jbo,  seated  upon  her  perch,  no  sooner  beheld  him,  than  shu 
hroke  her  jesses  *  and  flew  out  of  the  hall.  Then  the  pre- 
tended emperor,  addressing  those  who  stood  about  him. 


*  lasts  are  the  leather  strap*  with  which  u  hawk  «l,  confined. 


104  GESTA   EOMANOHUM. 

said,  "My  friends,  hear  what  I  will  ask  of  yon  ribald. 
Who  are  you?  and  what  do  you  want?"  "These  ques- 
tions," said  the  suffering  man,  "  are  very  strange.  You 
know  I  am  the  emperor  and  master  of  this  plaoe."  The 
other,  turning  to  the  nobles  who  Hat  or  stood  at  the  table, 
continued,  "  Tell  me,  on  your  allegiance,  which  of  ua  two 
is  your  lord  and  master?'  "  Your  majesty  asks  us  an  easy 
thing,"  replied  they,  "and  need  not  to  remind  us  of  our 
ri  lie  gin  nee.  That  obscene  wretch  we  have  never  before 
*oen.  You  alone  are  he,  whom  we  have  known  from 
ihildhoocl ;  and  we  entreat  that  this  follow  may  bo  severely 
punished,  as  a  warning  to  others  how  they  give  scope  to 
their  mad  presumption."  Then  turning  to  the  empress, 
the  usurper  said,  "Tell  me,  my  lady,  on  the  faith  you  have 
sworn,  do  you  know  this  man  who  calls  himself  thy  lord 
and  emperor  ?  "  She  answered,  ''My  lord,  how  can  you 
ask  such  a  question?  Have  I  not  known  thee  more  than 
thirty  years,  and  Lor  no  tfiuo  many  children?  Yet,  at  oue 
thing  I  do  admire.  How  can  this  fellow  have  acquired 
so  intimate  a  knowledge  of  what  has  passed  Letween  us?" 
The  pretended  emperor  made  no  reply,  Lut  addressing 
the  real  one,  said,  "  Friend,  how  darest  thou  to  cull  thyself 
emperor?  We  sentence  thoo,  for  this  unexampled  impu- 
dence, to  Le  drawn,  without  loss  of  time,  at  the  tail  of  a 
horse.  And  if  thou  utterest  the  same  words  again,  thou 
shalt  be  doomed  to  an  ignominious  death."  He  then  com- 
manded his  guards  to  see  the  sentence  put  in  force,  but  to 
preserve  hie  life.  The  unfortunate  emperor  was  now 
Jiimost  distracted. ;  and  urged  by  his  despair,  wished  ve- 
hemently for  death.  "  Why  was  I  Lorn  ?  "  he  exclaimed. 
"  My  friends  shun  mo  ;  and  my  wife  and  children  will  not 
acknowledge  me.  But  there  is  my  confessor,  still.  To 
him  will  1  go;  perhaps  he  will  recollect  me,  because  be 
has  often  received  my  confessions."  lie  went  accordingly, 
and  knocked  at  the  window  of  his  cell.  "  Who  is  there?" 
*aid  the  confessor.  "The  emperor  Jovinian,"  was  the 
reply ;  "  open  the  window,  and  I  will  spook  to  thee."  The 
window  was  opened ;  Lut  no  sooner  had  he  looked  out  thin 
he  closed  it,  again  in  great  haste.  "  Jlcpart  from  me,"  said 
he,  "accursed  thing:  thou  art  not  the  emperor,  but  the 
devil  incarnate."     This  completed  the  miseries  of  the  per- 


OT  TOO  MUC£I  PHIDK.  105 

«erated  man;  and  he  tore  his  hair,  and  plucked  up  his 
beard  by  the  roots.  "  Woe  is  me  !  "  he  eried,  "  for  what 
«range  doom  am  I  reserved?"  At  this  crisis,  the  impious 
words  which,  in  the  arrogance  of  his  heart,  ho  had  uttered, 
'.:-i.'SM''l  liis  recollection.  Immediately  he  boat  again  at 
the  window  of  the  confessor's  cell,  and  exclaimed,  "For  the 
love  of  Him  who  was  suspended  from  the  cross,  hear  my 
confession  with  the  window  closed."  The  recluse  said,  "  1 
"ill do  thia  with  pleasure;"  and  then  Jovinian  acquainted 
him  with  every  particular  of  liis  past  life;  and  principally 
how  he  had  lifted  himself  up  against  his  Maker,  saying 
that  he  believed  there  was  no  other  god  but  himself. 

The  confession  made,  and  absolution  given,  the  recluse 
opened  the  window,  and  directly  knew  him.  "  Blessed  he 
the  most  high  God,"  said  he,  "  now  do  I  know  thee.  I  have 
here  a  few  garments  :  clothe  thyself,  and  go  to  the  palace. 
1  trust  that  they  also  will  recognize  theo."  The  emperor 
did  as  the  confessor  directed.  The  purler  opened  the  gate, 
and  made  a  low  obeisance  to  hint.  '■  Host  thou  know  me?" 
wA  he.  "  Very  well,  my  lord !  "  replied  the  menial ;  "  but 
I  marvel  that  I  did  not  observe  you  go  out."  Entering 
the  hall  of  his  mansion,  Jovinian  was  received  by  all  with 
a  profound  reverence.  The  strange  emperor  was  at  that 
time  in  another  apartment  with  the  queen  ;  and  a  certain 
«tight  came  out  of  the  chamber,  looked  narrowly  at 
Juvinian,  and  returning  to  the  supposed  emperor,  said, 
"My  lord,  there  is  one  in  the  hall  to  whom  everybody 
beads;  he  so  much  resembles  you,  that  we  know  not 
which  is  the  emperor."  Hearing  this,  the  usurper  said 
la  the  empress,  "  Go  and  see  if  you  know  him."  She  went, 
and  returned  greatly  surprised  at  what  sho  saw.  "  Oh,  my 
lord."  said  she,  "  1  declare  to  you  that  I  know  not  whom 
to  trust."  "  Then,"  returned  he,  "  I  will  go  and  determine 
you.'L-When  he  bad  entered  the  hall,  he  took  Jovinian  by 
the  hand  and  placed  him  near  him.  Addressing  the 
assembly,  he  said,  "  By  the  oaths  you  have  taken,  declare 
which  of  ua  is  your  emporor."  The  empress  answered,  "  It 
k  incumbent  on  me  to  speak  first ;  but  Heaven  is  my  wit- 
ness that  I  am  unable  to  determine  which  is  ho."  And  so 
laid  all.  Then  the  feigned  emperor  spoke  thus,  "  My 
That  man  is  your  king  and  your  lord. 


106  GESTA  ROHANORUM. 

He  exalted  himself  to  the  disparagement  of  his  Maker : 
and  God,  therefore,  scourged  and  hid  him  from  your  know- 
ledge. I  am  the  angel  that  watches  over  his  soul,  and  I 
have  guarded  low  kingdom  while  ho  was  undergoing  hii» 
penance.  But  his  repentance  removes  the  rod  ;  he  has  now 
made  ample  satis  faction,  and  again  let  your  obedience 
wait  upon  him.  Commend  yourselves  to  the  protection 
of  Heaven."  So  saying.  In;  disappeared.  The  emperor 
gave  thanks  to  God,  and  lived  happily,  and  finished  his 
days  in  peace.  (6) 

APPLICATION 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  represents  any  one  whom  the 
pride  and  vanity  of  life  wholly  engross.  The  knight  to 
whom  Jovinian  first  applied  is  Reason;  whioh  ever  dis- 
claims the  pomps  a?id  foul  erics  of  life.  The  duke  is  eon- 
science  ;  the  savage  dog  is  the  flesh,  which  alarms  the 
falcon,  that  is,  divine  grace.  The  wife  is  the  human  soul ; 
the  clothes  in  which  the  emperor  was  at  last  arrayed  are 
the  virtues  that  befit  the  true  sovereign,  that  is,  the  good 
Christian. 


OF   AVARICE    AND    ITS   SUBTLETY. 

A  certain  king  had  an  only  daughter,  remarkable  for  the 
beauty  and  dignity  of  her  person.  She  was  called  Rosa- 
mond ;  and,  at  the  early  age  of  ten  years,  she  proved  so 
swift  a  runner,  that  she  invariably  attained  the  goal  before 
her  competitor.  The  king  caused  it:  to  be  proclaimed  that 
whosoever  should  surpass  his  daughter  in. speed  should 
marry  her,  and  succeed  to  the  throne :  but  in  the  event  of 
a  failure  ho  should  lose  his  head.  And  even  with  the 
heavy  penalty  before  them,  numbers  permitted  themselves 
to  be  buoyed  up  by  the  hope  of  .snceiws  to  a  I  tempt,  and  to 
perish  in  the  attempt.  But  it  happened  that  a  poor  man, 
called  Abibns.  inhabited  (lint,  country,  who  thus  communed 
with  himself :  "  I  am  very  poor,  and  of  a  base  extraction  j 


OF  AYABICE  AND   ITS  SUBTLETY.  107 

if  I  may  overcome  this  lady  and  marry  her,  not  only  shall 
I  be  promoted  myself,  but  all  who  are  of  my  blood."  But 
wiser  than  the  rest,  he  took  the  three  following  precautions. 
First,  he  framed  a  curious  garland  of  rosea,  of  which  he 
had  ascertained  that  the  lady  was  devotedly  fond.  Then, 
he  procured  a  Bone  of  the  finest  silk,  from  a  conviction  that 
most  damsels  were  partial  to  this  sort  of  clothing.  And, 
lastly,  he  bought  a  silken  bag,  in  which  he  deposited  a 
golden  ball  bearing  the  following  inscription :  "  Whosoever 
plays  with  me  shall  never  satiate  of  play."  These  three 
things  he  placed  in  his  bosom,  and  knocked  at  the  palace 
gate.  The  porter  inquired  his  business  ;  and  he  stated  his 
wish  in  the  usual  form. 

It  happened  that  the  princess  herself  stood  at  a  window 
close  by,  and  heard  Abibas  express  his  intention  to  run  with 
her.  Observing  that  he  was  poor,  and  his  attire  thread- 
hire  and  rent,  she  despised  him  from  her  very  heart,  and 
Baid,  "  Lq  !  what  poor  wretch  is  this  with  whom  I  have  to 
contend?"  However,  she  prepared  to  run;  and  everything 
being  in  readiness,  they  commenced  the  race.  Abibas 
would  have  been  left  at  a  considerable  distance ;  but 
taking  the  garland  of  roses  from  its  repository,  he  skilfully 
threw  it  down  before  her,  on  which  the  maiden  stooped, 
picked  it  up,  and  placed  it  on  her  head.  Delighted  with 
the  odour  and  beauty  of  the  flowers,  she  paused  to  examine 
it ;  and  Abibas  took  advantage  of  her  forgetfulness  and 
advanced  rapidly  towards  the  goal.  This  awoke  her  to  a 
recollection  of  what  was  going  forward,  and  crying  aloud., 
"Never  shall  the  daughter  of  a  prince  be  united  to  t  is 
miserable  clown,"  she  threw  the  garland  from  her  into  a 
deep  well,  and  rushed  onward  like  a  whirlwind.  In  a  few 
moments  she  overtook  the  youth,  and  extending  her  hand, 
struck  him  upon  the  shoulder,  exclaiming,  "  Stop,  foolish 
thing;  hopest  thou  to  marry  a  princess?"  Just  as  she 
was  on  the  point  of  repassing  him,  he  drew  forth  the 
silken  girdle,  and  cast  it  at  her  feet.  The  temptation 
again  proved  too  strong  for  ber  resolution,  and  she  stooped 
to  gather  it.  Overjoyed  at  the  beauty  of  its  texture,  she 
must  bind  it  round  her  waist ;  and  whilst  she  did  this, 
Abibas  had  recovered  more  ground  than  he  had  lost.  As 
i  as  the  fair  racer  perceived  the  consequences  of  her 


108  GESTA    ROMANORUM. 

folly,  she  buret  into  a  flood  of  tears,  and  rending  the  zone 
asunder,  hurried  on.  Having  again  overtaken  her  adver- 
sary, she  seized  him  by  the  arm,  striking  him  smartly  at 
the  same  time :  "  Fool,  thou  shalt  not  marry  me ;  "  and 
immediately  she  ran  faster  than  before.  Abibas,  when  he 
saw  this,  waited  until  she  was  near  the  goal,  and  then 
threw  at  her  feet  the  bag  with  the  golden  ball.  It  was 
impossible  to  forbear  picking  it  up  ;  and  equally  impossible 
not  to  open  it  and  peep  at  its  contents.  She  did  so;  but 
reading  the  inscription,  "  Who  plays  with  me  shall  never 
satiato  of  playing,"  she  played  so  much  and  so  long,  that 
Abibas  came  first  to  the  goal  and  married  her.* 


Am,  I  CATION. 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  daughter  is  the 
soul,  and  Abibas  is  the  devil,  who  provides  v 
lions  to  draw  ub  from  the  goal  of  heaven. 


OF   REFLECTION. 

»nly 


The  Emperor  Claudius  had  an  only  daughter  who  was 
incomparably  beautiful.  As  he  lay  in  bed,  he  reflected 
seriously  upon  the  best  mode  of  disposing  of  her.  "If," 
thought  he,  "  I  should  marry  her  to  a  rich  fool,  it  will 
occasion  her  death.  But  if  I  bestow  her  upon  a  wise 
man,  although  he  be  poor,  his  own  wit  will  procure  him 
riches."  f 

Now,  it  happened  that  there  dwelt  in  the  city  a  phi- 

*  "This  is  evidently  n  <1  ■■■'!.] i i';  tiiiiiivsilion  nf  tin-  classical  tale  ef 
Atalanta.  But  it  is  nut  im|ii>xsi!>k-  Unit  mi  urkntul  apologue  might 
have  given  riso  to  the  Grecian  fable." — Warton. 

The  story  of  Atiiliiiit.il  I  n-.nsidi/r  to  In;  Hip  origin  of  many  subse- 
quent fables.  Amongst  these,  the  "Hare  ami  the  Tortoise"  may 
bo  noticed. 

t  It  was  a  maxim  of  Tliemistorles  that  his  daughter  had  better 
marry  a  man  without  an  ettete,  than  :ui  estate  without  a  man. 


OF   REFLECTION.  I 

losopher  called  Socrates,  whom  the  king  very  greatly 
esteemed.  This  person  was  sent  for,  and  thus  addressed, 
"My  good  friend,  I  design  to  espouse  you  to  my  only 
daughter."  Socrates,  overjoyed  at  the  proposal,  expressed 
his  gratitude  as  he  best  could.  "  But,'  continued  the 
emperor,  "  take  her  with  this  condition  :  that  if  she  die 
first,  you  shall  not  survive  her."  The  philosopher 
Mental ;  the  nuptials  were  solemnized  with  great  splen- 
dour, and  for  a  length  of  time  their  happiness  was 
uninterrupted. 

But  at  last  she  sickened,  and  her  death  was  honrly 
expected.  This  deeply  afflicted  Socrates,  and  he  retired 
into  a  neighbouring  forest  and  gave  free  courso  to  his 
alarm.  Whilst  he  was  thus  occupied,  it  chanced  that 
King  Alexander  *  hunted  in  the  same  forest;  and  that  a 
fc'Uier  of  his  •riiard  discerned  tin-  ] philosopher,  and  rode  up 
tu  him.  "Who  art  thou?  "asked  the  soldier.  "I  am," 
"plied  he,  "the  servant  of  my  master;  and  he  who  is 
the  servant  of  my  master  is  the  lord  of  thine."  "  How  ?  " 
aied  the  other,  "there  is  not  a  greater  person  in  the 
universe  than  he  whom  I  serve.  But  Bince  you  are 
pleased  to  say  otherwise,  I  will  presently  lead  you  to 
nira ;  and  we  will  hear  who  thy  lord  is."  Accordingly, 
he  was  brought  before  Alexander.  "  Friend,"  said  the 
king,  "  concerning  whom  dost  thou  say  that  his  servant 
«my  master?"  The  philosopher  answered.  "'My  master 
i«  reason  ;  hi»  servant  is  the  will.  Now,  dost  thou  not 
guvorn  thy  kingdom  according  to  the  dictates  of  thy 
«ill?  Therefore,  thy  will  is  thy  master.  But  the  will 
ia  the  servant  of  my  master.  So  that  what  I  said  is  true, 
and  thou  canst  not  disprove  it."  Alexander,  wondering 
at  the  man's  wit,  candidly  answered  in  the  affirmative, 
•oil  ever  after  ruled  both  himself  and  his  kingdom  by  the 
laws  of  reason, 

Socrates,  however,  entered  farther  into  the  forest,  and 
"*zp.  bitterly  over  the  expected  decease  of  his  wife.  In 
the  midst  of  his  distress  he  was  accosted  by  an  old  man 
«ho  inhabited  that  part  of  the  wood.  "  Master,"  said  he, 
"  why  art  thou  afflicted  ?. "     "  Alas !  "  answered  the  other. 


110  GESTA  KOMANORUM. 

"  I  have  espoused  the  daughter  of  an  emperor  upon  the 
condition  that  if  she  die  I  should  die  with  her :  she  is 
now  on  the  point  of  death,  and  my  life  therefore  will 
certainly  bo  required."  "  What  I  "  said  the  old  man, 
"grievest  thou  for  thin?  Take  my  counsel,  and  thou  shalt 
be  Bate  enough.  Thy  wife  is  of  royal  descent ;  let  her 
besmear  heT  breast  with  some  of  her  father's  blood.  Then, 
do  thou  search  in  the  depths  of  this  forest,  where  thou 
wilt  find  three  herbs :  of  oue  of  them  make  a  beverage  and 
administer  it  to  her;  the  other  two  beat  into  a  piaster, 
and  apply  it  to  the  afflicted  part.  If  my  instructions 
are  exactly  attended  to,  she  will  be  restored  to  perfect 
health."  Socrates  did  as  he  was  directed ;  and  his  wife 
presently  recovered.  When  the  emperor  knew  how  he 
had  striven  to  find  a  remedy  for  his  wife's  disorder,  he 
loaded  him  with  riches  and  honours.* 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  the 
daughter  is  the  soul,  given  to  man  on  condition  that, 
should  it  be  destroyed  by  sin,  he  also  should  lose  eternal 
life.  The  priest  is  the  Church,  where  health  and  safety 
may  he  found.  The  old  man  ia  a  wise  confessor,  and 
Alexander  is  the  world. 


OP   THE  BEAOTY  OF  A   FAITHFUL  MIND. 


uvtiful 


When  Sains  was  emperor,  there  lived  a  very  beantil 
woman,  whose  name  was  Florentina.  She  was  so  remark- 
ably handsome  that  three  kings  sought  her  love,  by  one 
of  whom  she  was  abused.  This  occasioned  a  war  between 
them,  and  great  numbers  of  men  fell  on  both  sides.     But 

•  The  latter  purl  of  tdis  si|'»li£uo  is  in  A 1  pi  mil  bus,  Hi  Cl'-rindi 
Disciplina.  It  is  the  last  of  the  Latin  Copy;  but  aut  noticed  in 
Mr.  Douco'b  analysis,  as  occurring  in  the  Gesta. 


OF  THE  BEAUTY  OF  A  FAITHFUL  MIND,  111 

the  nobles,  unwilling  to  see  so  much  wante  of  Mood,  inter- 
fered, and  (iJdr^ssidj;  the  em|:*ror.  bade  him  observe  that, 
unless  a  stop  were  put  to  the  virulent  animosity  which 
divided  them,  the  whole  kingdom  would  lie  amiiliihiti'd. 
The  euiperor,  duly  considering  what  had  been  said, 
directed  letters,  impressed  with  the  royal  signet,  to  be 
sent  to  the  fair  occasion  of  the  war;  by  which,  without 
delay,  she  was  commanded  to  appear  before  him.  A 
herald  bore  the  mandate,  but  before  he  could  deliver  it 
«he  died.  The  herald,  therefore,  returned,  and  the  era- 
jeror,  very  much  regretting  that  he  had  lost  sight  of  so 
Tieautiful  a  woman,  caused  all  the  best  artiste  in  the 
lingdom  to  be  summoned  into  his  presence.  When  they 
Trere  assembled,  ho  Bpoke  as  follows :  "  My  friends,  the 
reason  that  1  have  sent  for  you  is  this.  There  was  a  very 
leautiful  woman,  named  Florentina,  for  whose  love  a 
.great  number  of  men  have  lost  their  lives.  She  died 
lefore  I  had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  her.  Do  ye  go, 
"therefore ;  paint  her  to  the  life,  as  she  was  in  all  her 
1*saty,  Thus  shall  I  discover  wherefore  so  many  were 
sacrificed."  The  artists  answered,  "  Your  majesty  wishes 
a  thing  which  is  very  difficult  to  execute.  Her  beauty 
"Was  so  surpassing,  that  not  all  the  artists  in  the  world, 
«»ve  one,  would  be  able  to  do  her  justice ;  and  he  hides 
kimself  amongst  the  mountains.  But  he  alone  can  per- 
f*ctly  fulfil  your  desires."  On  receiving  this  information. 
*nessengers  were  despatched  in  pursuit  of  him.  He  was 
soon  found,  arid  brought  before  tho  curious  monarch,  who 
*5omnianded  him  to  paint  Florentina  as  she  appeared  when 
living ;  and  if  he  did  it,  his  reward  should  be  royal. 
**Your  request  is  extremely  difficult,"  said  the  painter; 
"nevertheless,  cause  all  the  beautiful  women  in  your 
kingdom  to  come  before  me  for  an  hour  at  least,  and  I 
"*villdo  as  you  desire."  The  emperor  complied,  and  made 
them  stand  in  his  presence.  From  these  the  artist  selected 
rVmr,  and  permitted  the  rest  to  return  home.  Then  he 
commenced  his  labours.  First,  he  laid  on  a  coat  of  red 
colour;  ami  whatever  was  exquisitely  beautiful  in  the 
•our  women,  that  he  copied  in  his  painting.  In  this 
maimer  it  received  its  completion  ;  and  when  the  emperor 
Meld  it,  he   said,    "  Oh,   Flo    ntina,  had  you  lived  to 


GESTA   ROMAN'ORUM. 


eternity,  you  ought  to  have  loved  that  painter  who  has 
represented  you  in  so  much  beauty." 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God;  the  beautiful  Floren- 
tina  ia  the  soul  ;  the  three  kings,  the  devil,  the  world, 
and  the  flesh.  The  nobles  are  the  patriarchs  and  prophets, 
who  wore  the  mediators  between  God  and  man.  The 
painters  are  the  angels  and  men,  amongst  whom  there  was 
(bund  no  one  who  would  rescue  the  soul  from  death.  The 
artist  who  came  from  the  mountains  is  Christ.  The  red 
colour  is  blood;  the  four  women  are  existence,  growth, 
feeling,  and  understanding. 


TALE   LXIII. 

■   THE   PLEASURES  OP   THIS   WORLD. 


The  Emperor  Vespasian  had  a  daughter  called  Agliiefl, 
whose  loveliness  wus  ^voider  than  that  of  all  other  women. 
It  happened  that  as  she  stood  opposite  to  him  on  a  certain 
occasion,  he  considered  her  very  attentively,  and  then 
addressed  hor  as  follows  :  "  My  beloved  daughter,  thy 
beauty  merits  a  loftier  title  than  thou  hast  yet  received 
I  will  change  thy  name;  henceforward,  be  thou  called  the 
Lady  of  Comfort,  in  sign  that  whosoever  looks  upon  thee  in 
sorrow  may  depart  in  joy." 

Now,  the  emperor  pi  >ssi'ss.->d.  near  his  palace,  a  delicious 
garden,  in  which  ho  frequently  walked.  Proclamation  was 
made  that  whosoever  wished  to  marry  his  daughter  should 
come  to  the  palace,  and  remain  iu  this  garden  the  space  of 
three  or  four  days;  when  they  quitted  it,  the  ceremony 
should  take  place.  Immense  crowds  were  allured  by  the 
iipparontly  easy  terms  of  the  notice;  tLey  entered  the 
garden,  but  were  never  again  seen.  Not  one  of  them 
returned.  But  a  certain  knight,  who  dwelt  in  some  remote 
country,  hearing  of  the  condition»  by  which  the  daughter 


OF  THE  PLEASURES  OF  THIS  VtVlliAj.  113 

of  a  great  king  might  be  espoused,  came  to  the  gate  of  the 
palace  and  demanded  entrance.  On  being  introduced  to 
the  emperor,  he  spoke  thus  :  "I  hear  it  commonly  reported, 
my  Lord,  that  whoever  enters  your  garden  shall  espouse 
your  daughter.  For  this  purpose  I  come."  "  Enter,  then," 
said  the  emperor;  "on  thy  return  thou  shall  marry  her." 
"But,"  added  the  knight,  "I  solicit  one  boon  of  your 
majesty.  Before  I  enter  the  garden,  I  would  entreat  an 
opportunity  of  conversing  a  short  time  with  the  lady." 
'*  I  have  no  objection  to  that,"  said  the  emperor.  She  was 
called,  and  the  knight  accosted  her  in  these  words  :  "Fair 
damsel,  thou  hast  been  called  the  Lath/  of  Comfort,  because 
every  one  who  enters  thy  presence  sorrowful  returns  &. 
tented  and  happy.  I,  therefore,  approach  thee  sad  a 
desolate — give  me  the  means  to  leave  thee  in  happiness  : 
many  have  entered  the  garden,  but  never  any  reappeared. 
If  the  same  chance  happen  to  me — alas !  that  I  should 
have  sought  thee  in  ma  mage."  "I  will  teD  thee  the  truth," 
Baid  the  lady,  "  and  convert  thy  unhappiness  into  pleasure. 
In  that  garden  there  is  an  enormous  lion,  which  devours 
every  one  who  enters  with  the  hope  of  marrying  me.  Arm 
thyself,  therefore,  cap-a-pie,  and  smear  your  armour  with 
gum.  As  soon  as  you  have  entered  the  garden  the  lion 
■will  rush  toward  you ;  attack  him  manfully,  and  when  yon 
are  weary,  leave  him.  Then  will  he  instantly  seize  yon 
by  the  arm  or  leg  ;  but  in  so  doing,  the  gum  will  adhere 
to  his  teeth,  and  he  will  be  unable  to  hurt  you.  As  soon 
as  you  perceive  this,  unsheath  your  sword  and  separate 
his  head  from  his  body.  Besides  the  ferocious  animal  1 
have  described,  there  is  another  danger  to  be  overcome. 
There  is  but  one  entrance,  and  so  intricate  are  the  laby- 
rinths, that  egress  is  nearly  iisipf'SNildu  without  assistance. 
But  here  also  1  will  befriend  you.  Take  ibis  ball  of  thread, 
and  attach  one  of  the  ends  to  the  gate  as  you  enter,  and, 
retaining  the  line,  pass  into  the  garden.  But,  as  you  love 
your  life,  beware  that  you  lose  not  the  thread."  * 

The  knight  exactly  observed  all  these  instructions. 
Having  armed  himself,   be  entered  the  garden  ;    and  the 

•  A  flue  moral,  whinh  miijht  be  oftener  remembered  with 
adsantage.  The  Gospel  is  to  tin;  t'hH-tian  what  tin-  bull  of  thread 
"as  to  th*  knight :  pity  that  it  should  ao  frequently  tie  loot ! 


114 


GKSTA    ROMANOKUM. 


lion,  with  open  mouth,  rushed  forward  to  devour  him.  He 
defended  himself  rc.iolntuly  ;  and  when  his  strength  failed, 
he  leapt  a  few  paces  back.  Thou,  as  the  lady  had  said, 
the  lion  seized  upon  l.lic  knight's  arm  :  but.  since  his  teeth 
were  clogged  with  gum,  he  did  him  no  injury,  and  the 
sword  presently  put  an  end  to  the  combat.  Unhappily, 
however,  while  exulting  over  his  victory,  he  let  go  the 
thread,  and  in  great  tribulation  wandered  about  the  gar- 
den for  three  days,  diligently  Hooking  the  lost  clue. 
Towards  night  he  discovered  it,  and  with  no  small  joy 
hastened  back  to  the  gate.  Then,  loosening  the  thread, 
he  bent  his  way  to  tho  presence  of  the  emperor;  and  in 
due  time  the  Lady  op  Comfort  became  his  wife.* 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ ;  the  Lady  of  Comfort 
ia  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  The  garden  is  the  world ;  the 
lion,  the  devil.  The  ball  of  thread  represents  baptism,  by 
which  we  enter  into  the  world. 


TALE    LXIV. 

OP  THE  INCARNATION  OP  OCR  LORD. 
A  CERTAIN  king  watt  lviuurkrilile  for  three  qualities.  Firstly, 
he  was  strongor  in  body  than  all  men;  secondly,  he  wa» 
wiser;  and  lastly,  mere  beautiful.  He  lived  a  long  time 
unmarried;  and  his  counsellors  would  persuade  him  to 
take  a  wife.  "  My  friends,"  said  he,  "  it  is  clear  to  yon 
that  1  am  rich  and  powerful  enough;  and  therefore  want 
not  wealth.  Go,  then,  through  town  and  country,  and 
seek  me  out  a  beautiful  and  wise  virgin  ;  and  if  ye  can  find 
such  a  one,  however  poor  eho  may  be,  I  will  marry  her." 
The  command  was  obeyed ;  they  proceeded  on  thoir  search. 

•  "Here  seems  to  he  an  nlliHion  to  Medea'»  hi-tery."— WaSTiM- 
It  ia  surely  mure  analogous  to  the  story  of  Ik©  Minotaur,  and  tbooli 
furnished  Ijv  Ariu'lni.'  to  her  lover.     Wnrton.  should  have  e; 
ttiv  rtscinblauuo  lit  lias  fancied. 


OF   THE   CURE   OF  THE    SOUL.  115 

until  at  last  they  discovered  a  lady  of  royal  extraction 
with  the  qualifications  desired.  Hut  the  king  was  not  so 
easily  satisfied,  and  determined  to  put  her  wisdom  to  the 
lent.  Ho  sent  to  the  lady  by  a  herald  a  piece  of  linen 
flirt li,  fhree  inches  square  :  and  hade  In.-r  contrive  to  make 
fur  him  a  sliirl  exactly  lilted  lo  his  Wly.  "  Then,"  added 
ho,  "she  shall  be  my  wife."  The  messenger,  thus  com- 
missioned,  departed  on  his  errand,  and  reside tfn I  ly  pre- 
sented the  cloth,  with  the  request  of  the  king.  "  How  can 
1  comply  with  it,"  exclaimed  the  lady,  "  when  the  cloth  ii 
t  three  inches  square?  It  is  impossible  to  make  a  shirt 
but  bring  me  a  vessel  in  which  I  may  work,  and 
je  to  niako  the  shirt  long  enough  for  the  body." 
:  messenger  returned  with  the  reply  of  the  virgin,  and 
the  king  immediately  sent  a  sumptuous  vessel,  bj 
«f  which  she  extended  the  cloth  to  the  required  ai 
o.-iiiphted  the  shirt.     Whereupon  the  wise  king  married 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  God ;  the  virgin,  the  mother 
of  Christ ;  who  was  also  the  chosen  vessel.  By  the  mes- 
senger is  meant  Gabriel ;  the  cloth  is  the  grace  of  God, 
which,  by  proper  care  and  labour,  is  made  sufficient  fur 
man's  salvation. 


OF    THE   CURE    OF   THE    SOUL. 

A  Kiso  once  undertook  a  journey  from  one  state  to  another. 
' "  )T  much  travel,  he  came  to  a  certain  cross,  which  was 
d  with  inscriptions.  On  one  side  was  written,  "  Ob, 
if  you  ride  this  way,  you  yourself  will  find  good 
ainment,  but  your  horse  will  get  nothing  to  eat." 
ther  part  appeared  as  follows:  "If  you  ride  this 
air  horeo  will  be  admirably  attended  to,  but  you 
t  nothing  for  yourself."  Again,  on  a  third  place 
scribed'    "If  you    walk  this   path,   you   will   find 


116 


GESTA.  ROMA.N0RUM. 


entertainment  both  for  yourself  and  horse  ;  but  before  you 
depart,  you  will  be  miserably  beaten."  On  a  fourth  part 
of  the  cross  it  was  said :  "  If  you  walk  thiB  way,  they  will 
serve  you  diligently,  but  they  will  detain  your  horse, 
and  oblige  you  to  proceed  the  rest  of  your  journey  on  foot." 
When  the  king  had  read  the  inscriptions,  he  legan  to  con- 
sider which  of  tho  evils  lie  should  choose.  He  determined 
at  length  upon  the  first ;  "  For,"  said  he,  "  I  shall  faro  very 
well  myself,  though  my  horse  Btarve ;  and  the  night  wil' 
noun  pass  away."  On  this,  he  struck  the  spurs  into  his 
horse  ;  and  arrived  at  the  castle  of  a  knight,  who  entreated 
him  courteously,  but  giive  his  steed  little  or  nothing.  In 
the  morning  he  rode  on  to  his  own  palace,  and  related  all 
that  he  had  seen.* 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  any  good  Christian,  who 
journeys  for  the  safety  of  his  soul.  The  horee  which  he 
rides  is  the  body,  composed  of  the  four  elements.  The 
cross  is  conscience,  which  pointa  out  the  way,  and  explains 
the  consequences  attending  it. 


TALE    LXVI. 

OF   CONSTANCY. 


There  once  lived  a  king  who  had  a  beautiful  and  beloved 
daughter.  After  his  death  she  succeeded  to  the  throne, 
but,  being  young  and  unprotected,  a  certain  tyrannical 
duke  came  to  her,  and.  by  means  of  large  promisee,  won 
her  to  dishonour.  When  his  iniquitous  purpose  was 
accomplished,  the  girl  wept  bitterly;  and  soon  after  the 
tyrant  expelled  her  from  the  inheritance.  Thus  reduced 
from  the  splendours  of  royalty  to  the  lowest  state  of 
wretchedness,    she  solicited  alms  of  the  passengers.     It 

»  [Compare  the  story  of  "  Lubim  Czarewu'li  and  the  Winded 
Wolf"  in  fluWnu  ]';pulnr  Tuts,  p.  1,  wln.-re  the  hero  is  offered  the 
i-hniec  betwet-u   ll:rtu  mails  in  terms  almost  idunticiil  with  the  U 


OF   CONSTANCY.  117 

happened  that  as  she  eat  weeping  by  the  wayside,  a 
certain  knight  passed  by,  and  observing  her  great  beauty, 
became  enamoured  of  her.  "  Fair  lady,"  said  he,  "  what 
are  you  ?  "  "I  am,"  replied  the  weeping  girl,  "  the  only 
daughter  of  a  king ;  after  wlio.se  death  a  tyrant  seduced 
and  abused  me,  and  then  deprived  me  of  ray  inheritance.7' 
"  Well,"  returned  the  knight,  "  arc  you  willing  to  marry 
me?"  "Oh,  my  Lord!"  exclaimed  she,  "I  desire  it  be- 
yond anything  that  oo'ild  liappc-11.'"  '■  Then  plight  me  your 
faith,"  said  the  knight ;  "  promise  to  receive  no  one  for 
your  husband  but  me,  and  I  will  make  war  upon  the 
tyrant,  and  reinstate  you  in  your  possessions.  But  if  I 
fall  in  the  conflict,  I  entreat  you  to  retain  my  bloody  arms 
tinder  your  care,  in  testimony  of  affection  ;  that  in  case 
any  one  hereafter  shall  desire  your  love,  you  may  enter 
the  chamber  in  which  the  arms  hang,  and  may  thus  be 
reminded  of  the  proof  I  have  given  of  my  attachment  and 
devotion  to  your  service."  "  I  promise  faithfully,"  re- 
turned she,  "  to  comply  with  your  wishes  :  but,  oh !  may 
your  life  be  s;ife  !  "  The  knight  there  fore  armed  himself, 
and  proceeded  to  engage  the  tyrant,  who  had  heard  of  his 
intention,  and  prepared  for  the  attack.  The  knight,  how 
ever,  overcame  him,  and  cut  off  his  head  :  but,  receiving 
a  mortal  wound,  be  died  on  the  third  day.  The  lady 
bewailed  his  death,  and  hung  up  his  bloody  armour  in  her 
■chamber.  She  visited  it  frequently,  and  washed  it  with 
bitter  tears.  Many  noblemen  sought  to  espouse  her,  and 
made  magnificent  promises ;  but  invariably  before  return- 
ing an  answer  she  entered  the  chamber,  and,  surveying 
the  bloody  armour  steadfastly,  exclaimed,  amid  abundance 
of  tears,  "  Oh,  thou,  who  devotedst  thyself  to  death  for 
one  so  unworthy,  and  restoredst.  inc  my  kingdom  ! — far  be 
it  from  me  to  abjure  my  plighted  faith."  Then  returning 
to  those  who  sought  her  love,  she  declared  her  resolution 
never  to  unite  herself  with  another.  When  they  heard 
this  they  departed ;  and  thus  she  remained  single  to  the 
end  of  her  life.* 

•  See  Talis  XXV..  whu'b  differs  but  little  from  this. 

[Mr.  D.  U.  Hotwtti  Ijiih  uwl  c L . i ~  tule  lid. I  tin-  tv iintv-flfth  an  the 
groundwork  of  his  beautiful  poem,  "The  Staff  an  J  Scrip"  (Rosietti'i 
Poem»,  p.  J7J.— Ed.] 


GESTA    ROMAN  OR  I/M 


APPLICATION. 


■ 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  heavenly  Father ;  and  the 
danghter  is  the  s<jiil  seduced  by  the  devil.  The  wayside 
is  the  world.  The  soldier  who  rode  past  is  the  Son  of 
God ;  the  bloody  armour  is  His  death  and  passion. 


TALE    LXVII 


The  Emperor  Maximian  was  renowned  for  the  wisdom  of 
his  government.  In  his  reign  there  lived  two  knights, 
the  one  wise  and  the  other  lbidish,  but  who  had  a  mutual 
regard  for  each  other.  "  Lot  us  make  an  agreement," 
said  the  wise  knight,  "  which  will  be  advantageous  to 
both."  The  other  assented,  and,  by  (lie  direction  of  hia 
friend,  proceeded  to  draw  blood  from  Lis  right  arm.  "I," 
said  the  latter,  "  will  drink  of  thy  blood,  and  thou  of 
mine;  so  that  neither  in  prosperity  nor  in  adversity  shall 
our  covenant  be  broken,  and  whatsoever  the  one  gains, 
shall  be  divided  by  the  other."  The  foolish  knight 
agreed;  and  they  ratified  the  treaty  by  a  draught  of  each 
lit  tier's  blood.  After  this  they  both  dwelt  in  the  same 
mansion.  Now,  the  lord  of  the  country  had  two  cities, 
one  of  which  was  built  on  the  summit  of  a  lofty  mountain, 
tiince  all  who  went  to  it  would  possess  great  wealth,  and 
remain  there  for  life,  the  path  to  this  city  was  narrow 
and  stony,  and  about  midway  three  knights  with  a  large 
army  were  stationed.  Tho  custom  waa  that  whosoever 
passed  should  do  battle,  or  lose  his  life,  with  everything 
that  he  possessed.  In  that  city  tho  emperor  appointed  a 
seneschal,  who  received  without  exception  all  who  entered, 
and  ministered  to  them  aeeonling  to  their  condition.  But 
the  other  city  was  built  in  a  valley  under  the  mountain, 
the  way  to  which  was  perfectly  level  and  pleasant.  Three 
soldiers  dwelt  there,  who  cheerfully  received  whosoever 


OF  EXCUSES  WHICH  AKE  NOT  TO  BE  ADMITTED.      119 

came,  and  served  them  according  to  their  pleasure.  In 
this  city  also  a  seneschal  was  placed,  but  he  ordered  all 
who  approached  to  be  thrown  into  prison,  and  on  the 
coming  of  the  judge  to  be  condemned. 

The  wise  knight  said  to  hie  companion,  "  My  friend, 
let  MB  go  through  the  world  as  other  knights  are  wont  to 
do,"  and  seek  our  fortune."  His  friend  acquiesced ;  they 
Bot  out  upon  their  travels,  and  presently  came  to  a  place 
■where  two  roads  met.  "  Sec,"  said  the  wise  knight,  "  here 
are  two  roads.  The  one  leads  to  the  noblest  city  in  the 
world,  and  if  wo  go  tliithor,  wo  shall  obtain  whatsoever 
our  hearts  desire.  But  the  other  path  conducts  to  a  city 
which  is  built  in  a  valley ;  if  we  venture  there,  we  shall 
be  thrown  into  prison,  and  afterwards  orueiiied.  I  advise, 
therefore,  that  wu  avoid  this  i'u;i<:l.  ami  pursue  the  other." 
"  My  friend,"  replied  the  foolish  knight,  "  I  heard  long 
ago  of  these  two  cities;  but  the  way  to  that  upon  the 
mountain  is  very  narrow  and  dangerous,  because  of  the 
soldiers  who  attack  those  that  enter  ;  nay,  they  frequently 
rob  and  murder  them.  But  the  other  way  is  open  and 
broad;  and  the  soldiers  who  are  stationed  there  receive 
passengers  with  hospitality,  and  supply  them  with  all 
things  necessary.  This  is  siilliii.ntlv  muni  lust;  I  see  it, 
and  bad  rather  believe  my  own  oyes  than  you."  "It  is 
true,"  returned  his  companion,  "one  way  is  difficult  to 
walk  along,  but  the  other  is  infinitely  worse  at  tho  end  : 
ignominy  and  crucifixion  will  certainly  he  our  doom.  But 
fear  you  to  walk  the  strait  road,  on  account  of  a  battle, 
or  because  of  robbers  ?  you,  who  are  a  soldier,  and  there- 
fore in  duty  bound  to  light  valiantly  !  However,  if  you 
will  go  with  me  the  way  I  desire,  I  promise  to  precede 
you  in  the  attack  ;  and  he  assured  with  your  aid  we  shall 
overcome  every  obstacle."     "  I  protest  to  you,"  said  the 

•  "Sicnt  cajteri  milites."  Hero  we  discover  those  features  of 
chivalry,  bo  admirably  ridiculed  by  Cervantes.  But,  in  times  of 
oppression,  «ben  every  one  followed 

"  the  simple  plan, 
That  he  may  hike  «  Lo  lias  ike  power, 
And  he  may  keep  who  can," 
the  (Hindering   here,  ever  rviuly  to  risk    liis    life    in  defence  of  the 
rod,  was  governed  by  a  nuble  and  useful  institution. 


1 


injured, 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

other,  "  I  will  not  go  your  way,  but  will  take  mine  own.*' 
"  Well,"  replied  the  wise  knight,  "since  I  have  pleiip?*' 
you  my  word,  and  drank  your  blood  in  token  of  fidelity.  ' 
will  proceed  with  you,  though  against  my  better  judg- 
ment."    So  they  both  went  the  same  path. 

The  progress  was  extremely  pleasant  till  they  reacts 
the  station,  of  the  three  isoldk-re,  wIki  honourably  and  t»*&' 
nificently  entertained  them.    And  here  the  foolish  kni  &1 
said  to  the  wise  one,  "  Friend,  did  I  not  tell  thee    tu* 
comfortable  this  way  would  be  found  ;  in  all  which.       "* 
other  is  deficient  ?  "     "  If  the  end  be  well,"  replied.      "e' 
"all  is  well;*  but  I   do  not  hope  it."     With,  the  t^*Yjf 
soldiers    they    tarried    some    time ;    insomuch   that         ™* 
seneschal  of  the  city,  hearing  that  two  knights,  coutr^*8^ 
to  royal  prohibition,  were  approaching,  sent  out  troop»   -*  '" 
apprehend  them.     The  foolish  knight  ho  commande«^3  J° 
be  bound  hand  and  foot,  and  thrown  into   a  pit,  but  t"e 

other  he  imprisoned.  Now,  when  the  judge  arrived,  ™e 
malefactors  were  all  brought  before  him,  and  among  ™ 
rest  our  two  knights — the  wiser  of  whom  thus  spoke :  *fc  ^J 
Lord,  I  complain  of  my  comrade,  who  is  the  occasiotr^*  *■' 
my  death.  1  declared  to  hini  the  law  of  this  city,  and  ^18 
danger  to  which  we  were  exposed,  but  he  would  not  li^*teu 
to  my  words,  nor  abide  by  my  counsels.  '  I  will  trust  ^J* 
eyes,'  said  he,  '  rather  than  you.'  Now,  because  I  ^3™ 
taken  an  oath  never  to  forsake  him  in  prosperity  or"  m 
adversity.  I  accompanied  him  hither.  But  ought  I  th.^^516" 
fore  to  die?  Pronounce  a  just  judgment."  Then  ~*{'e 
foolish  knight  addressed  the  judge :  "  He  is  himself  "^l|e 
rause  of  my  death.  For  every  one  knows  that  he  u 
reckoned  wise,  and  I  am  naturally  a  fool.  Ought  he  th^-e" 
so  lightly  to  have  surrendered  his  wisdom  to  my  foil  ^?* 
And  had  he  not  done  so,  1  should  have  returned  to  go  *r 
way  which  he  went,  even  for  the  solemn  oath  which  I  J:»  *~ 
sworn.  And  therefore,  since  he  is  wise,  and  I  am  fooli  ^^r* 
he  is  the  occasion  of  my  death."  The  judge,  hearing  tfc* _i8' 
spoke  to  both,  but  to  the  wise  knight  first  :  "  Thou  w  -*10 
art  wise,  since  thou  didst  listen  so  heedlessly  to  his  fo  J-  'v 

•  "Si  flnia   bonus  eat,  totum   bonum   erit."    This   gives  us   -*°8 
origin,  probably,  of  the  proverb.  "  AH',  well  that  mid»  well."     "FS-*"' 
opua  "  is  of  a  tiuiilar  character. 


Uf   MAINTAINING   TBUTH    TO   THE   LAST.  121 

and  followedst  him,  and  thou,  foolish  man,  since  thou 
didat  not  credit  his  word.  but  aeted  out  thine  own  foUy,  ye 
shall  both  be  suspended  on  the  cross  this  very  day."  Thus 
it  was  done. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ;  the  two  knights, 
body  and  soul ;  of  which  the  last  is  the  wise  one.  In 
baptism  they  were  united.  They  drank  blood ;  that  is, 
the  blood  in  the  veins  prevents  their  separation,  and  pre- 
serves life.  The  two  ways  are  penitence  and  the  world's 
glory.  The  way  of  penitence  is  narrow,  but  the  other  ia 
bToad  and  alluring.  The  city  on  the  mountain  is  heaven ; 
that  in  the  valley  is  hell.  The  three  soldiers  are  the 
world,  the  flesh,  and  the  devil,  &c,  &c. 


OF   MAINTAINING    TRUTH   TO   THE   LAST. 

Is  the  reign  of  Gordian,  there  waa  a  certain  noble  soldier 
who  had  a  fair  but  vicious  wife.  It  happened  that  her 
husband  having  occasion  to  travel,  the  ludy  sent  for  her 
gallant.  Now,  one  of  her  handmaids,  ir  seems,  was  skilful 
in  interpreting  the  song  of  birds  ;  and  in  the  court  of  the 
castle  there  were  three  cocks."  During  the  night,  while 
the  gallant  waa  with  his  mistress,  the  iirsl.  cock  began  U) 
crow.  The  lady  heard  it,  and  said  to  her  servant,  "  Dear 
friend,  what  says  yonder  cock  ?  "  She  replied,  "  That  you 
are  grossly  injuring  your  hiisbsind."  '-Thvn,"  said  the  lady, 
"  kill  that  cock  without  delay."  They  did  so  ;  but  aoou 
after  the  second  cock  crew,  and  the  lady  repeated  her 
question.     "  Madam,"  said  the  handmaid,  "  he  says   "  My 

•  The  interpretation  of  the  Inn  gu  <!:_•<■  of  bin]*  is  dearly  on  oriental 
fiction :  several  InstanoM  of  which  are  fiu-nisiied  by  the  Arabian 
Tales.  It  hat  .-line  I. tun  lunik'  lb,'  vthii'lt  "!'  iusiuv  instructive  tables, 
i>L-e  Spectator,   vol.  vii.   No.  a  12.  which  is  copied  tiuiii  the  "Stury  of 

ii,...-  Ik"  i  Hi  I-/'  in  tire  Turkish  Tela. 


122  GESTA   ROMAKORDM. 

oompanion  died  for  revealing  the  truth,  and  for  the  same 
cause,  I  am  prepared  to  die."*  "Kill  him,"  cried  the  lady, 
— which  they  did.  After  this,  the  third  cock  crew. 
"  What  says  he  ?  "  asked  she  again.  "  Hear,  see,  and  say 
nothing,  if  you  would  live  in  peace."  "  Oh,  oh !  "  said  the 
lady,  "  don't  kill  him."     And  her  ordors  were  obeyed. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God ;   the  soldier,  Christ ; 

and  the  wife,  the  soul.     The  gallant  is  the  devil.     The 

handmaid  is  conscience.     The  first  cook  is  our  Saviour, 

who  was  put  to  death  ;  the  second  is  the  martyrs ;  and  the 

I  third  is  a  preacher  who  ought  to  be  earnest  in  due  luring 
the  truth,  but,  being  deterred  by  menaces,  is  afraid  to 
utter  it. 
i 
; 


TALE    LXIX. 

OF   CHASTITY. 

The  Emperor  Gallns  employed  ;i  singularly  skilful  carpenter 
in  the  erection  of  a  ma^nilio^nt  pulace.  At  that  period,  a 
certain  knight  lived  who  had  a  very  beautiful  daughter; 
and  who,  perceiving  the  extraordinary  sagacity  of  the 
artificer,  determined  to  give  him  the  lady  in  marriage. 
Calling  him,  therefore,  he  said,  "  My  good  friend,  ask  of 
me  what  you  will ;  so  that  it  be  possible,  I  will  do  it,  pro- 
vided you  marry  my  daughter."  The  other  assented,  and 
the  nuptial  rites  were  celebrated  accordingly.  Then  the 
mother  of  the  lady  said  to  the  carpenter,  "  My  son,  since 
you  have  become  one  of  our  family,  1  will  bestow  upon  you 
a  curious  shirt.  It  possesses  this  singular  property,  that 
as  long  as  you  and  your  wife  are  faithful  to  each  other,  it 
will  neither  be  rent,  nor  worn,  nor  stained.  But  if— which 
Heaven  forbid ! — either  of  you  prove  unfaithful,  instantly 
it  will  lose  its  virtue."  The  carpenter,  very  happy  in  what 
he  heard,  took  tin;  shirt,  and  roturnud  great  thanks  for  the 

gift. 


OF  CHASTITY. 


123 


A  short  while  afterward,  the  carpenter  heing  sent  for 
to  superintend  the  building  of  the  ein]>eror'B  palace,  took 
irilh  him  the  valual.de  present  which  ho  had  received.  He 
continued  absent  until  the  structure  was  complete;  and 
numbers,  observing  how  much  he  laboured,  admired  the 
freshness  and  spotless  purity  of  hie  ahirt.  Even  the 
emperor  condescended  to  notice  it,  and  said  to  him,  "  My 
roaster,  how  ia  it  that  in  despite  of  your  laborious  occupa- 
tion, and  the  constant  use  of  your  shirt,  it  still  preserves 
its  colour  and  beauty  ? "  "  You  must,  know,  my  Lord,"  said 
te,  "that  as  long  as  my  wife  and  I  continue  faithful  to 
each  ether,  my  shirt  retains  its  original  whiteness  and 
lieauty  ;  but  if  either  of  us  forget  our  matrimonial  vows,  it 
si II  sully  like  any  Dther  cloth."  A  soldier,  overhearing 
dun,  thought  within  himself,  "  If  I  can  I  will  make  you 
wash  your  shirt."  Wherefore,  without  giving  any  cause  of 
mi,  [id  on  to  the  ear] muter,  lie  secretly  hii.st.ouod  to  his  house, 
■iini  sulioited  his  wife  In  dishonour.  She  received  him  with 
at  iipjiearance  of  pleasure,  and  seemed  to  he  entirely  in- 
fluenced by  the  same  feelings.  "But,"  added  she,  "in  this 
place  we  are  exposed  to  nbservation  ;  come  with  me,  and  1 
«ill  conduct  you  into  a  private  chamber."  He  followed 
iter,  and  closing  the  door,  she  said,  "  Wait  here  awhile ;  I 
«ill  return  presently."  Thus  she  did  every  day,  all  the 
time  supplying  him  only  with  bread  and  water.  Without. 
regard  to  his  urgency,  she  compelled  him  to  endure  this 
humiliating  treatment ;  and  Wore  long,  two  other  soldiers 
rame  to  her  from  the  emperor's  court,  with  the  same  evil 

VIDWB.      Ill  like  manner,  sin.:  doei'Vcd  them  in tu  tlieehimilici , 
«nd  fed  them  with  bread  anil  water. 

The  sudden  disappearami*.  however,  of  the  three  sol- 
ars gave  rise  to  much  inquiry;  and  the  carpenter,  on 
His  oo  in  plot  ion  of  his  labours,  received  the  stipulated  sum, 
*«<!  returned  to  his  own  home.  His  virtuous  wife,  met  him 
with  joy,  and  looking  upon  the  spotless  shirt,  exclaimed, 
"Blessed  he  God  1  our  truth  is  made  apparent— there  in 
Ma  single  stain  upon  the  shirt."  To  which  ho  replied, 
"My  beloved,  dining  the  progress  of  the  building,  three 
wilJLiirs,  one  after  (mother,  c(unc  to  ask  questions  about  the 
•hirt.  I  related  the  fact,  and  since  that  time  nothing  has 
heard  of  them."     The  lady  smiled,  arid  said,  •'  The 


~" 


12*  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

soldiers  respecting  whom  you  feel  anxious  thought  me  a 
fit  subject  for  their  improper  soli  citation,  and  came  hither 
with  the  vilest  intent.  I  decoyed  them  into  a  remote 
chamber,  and  have  fed  thorn  with*  bread  and  water."  The 
carpenter,  delighted  with  tliis  proof  of  his  wife's  fidelity, 
sjMired  their  lives,  and  liberated  them  ;  and  he  and  his  wife 
lived  happily  for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 


APPLICATION. 


is  wife 
is  the 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God ;    the  palace 
human  heart.     The  knight  who  married  his  daughtei 
the  carpenter  is  Christ ;   the  carpenter  is  any  good  Chris- 
tian, and  the  mother  is  the  Church.     The  shirt  is  faith ; 
the  three  soldiers  are  pride,  lusts  of  the  eyes,  and  lusts  of 
the  heart. 


OF   THE   COMPUNCTIONS   OP   A   FAITHFUL   MIND. 

A  certain  king  had  a  beautiful  and  wise  daughter,  whom 
he  was  desirous  of  marrying.  But  she  had  sworn  never  to 
unite  herself  to  any  but  upon  three  conditions.  First,  he 
was  to  state  accurately  how  many  feet  there  were  in  thu 
length,  breadth,  mid  dupth  of  the  four  elements.  Secondly, 
he  was  to  change  the  north  wind.  And  thirdly,  he  was  to 
carry  fire  in  his  bosom  without  injury.  When  the  king, 
therefore,  understood  his  daughter's  resolution,  he  pro- 
claimed it  through  the  kingdom,  and  promised  to  give  her 
in  marriage  to  whomsoever  performed  the  conditions. 
Many  endeavoured,  but  failed;  until  at  length  a  certain 
knight  from  foreign  parts  heard  of  the  girl's  oath.  He 
hastened  to  the  palace,  conveying  with  him  a  single  at- 
tendant, and  an  extremely  fiery  horse.  On  being  admitted 
into  the  king's  presence,  he  said,  "  I  am  desirous  of  espous- 
ing your  majesty's  daughter,  and  1  am  prepared  to  solve  the 
questions  which  have  been  proposed."  The  king  assented, 
and  the  soldier,  calling  his  servant,  commanded  him  to  lie 


OF  THE  COMPUNCTIONS  OF  A   FAITHFUL  MIXD-   125 

njKJn  the  earth.  And  when  he  was  thus  laid,  his  master 
lueasured  his  length  from  one  extremity  to  the  other. 
Uheu  he  had  done  this,  lie  said  to  the  king,  "My  Lord, 
your  first  question  is  resolved  ;  I  find  in  the  four  elements 
wnicfly  seven  feet."  "  How?"  re|ilioil  tin-  king.  "What 
has  this  to  do  with  the  four  elements?"  "My  Lord," 
uiiswered  the  soldier,  "  every  man,  as  well  as  every  animal, 
iiti'iiipesed  of  this  four  diluents."  "Amen,"  said  the  king, 
"you  have  proved  this  very  satisfactorily.  Now  then  for 
liu!  second  condition,  which  in  to  change  the  wind."  Im- 
w&liately  ho  caused  his  horse  to  bo  brought  into  the  aren 
of  the  court,  and  there  administered  a  potion,  by  which  tho 
imimal  was  made  perfectly  quiet.  This  done,  he  turned 
his  horse's  head  towards  the  east,  and  said,  "  Observe,  my 
Lord,  the  wind  iB  changed  from  north  to  east."  "  How  ? " 
answered  the  king,  "  what  is  this  to  the  wind  1 "  "  Sire," 
Murned  the  soldier,  "  is  it  not  obvious  to  your  wisdom 
that  the  life  uf  every  animal  consists  in  his  breath,  which 
is  air?  As  long  as  he  raged  fiercely,  so  long  was  he  in  the 
north.  But  when  I  had  given  him  the  potion  I  turned  him 
toward  the  east,  so  that  he  is  ready  to  hear  his  burden." 
"Thia  also,"  said  the  king,  "  you  have  well  proved  ;  go  on 
to  the  third."  "  My  Lord,"  replied  the  soldier,  "  this,  so 
please  you,  I  will  perform  before  all  your  court."  Then, 
Wing  up  a  handful  of  turning  o.mls.  hu  deposited  them  in 
lii»  bosom,  without  injury  to  his  flesh.  "  Truly,"  exclaimed 
liieking.  "you  have  done  very  well  in  these  matters:  but 
fell  me,  how  happens  it  that  you  are  unhurt  by  the  fire." 
"  It  was  not,"  returned  the  soldier,  "  by  any  power  of  my 
own,  but  by  virtue  of  a  singular  stone,  which  I  always 
carry  about  with  me.  And  whosoever  possesses  this  stone 
isable  to  resist  the  hottest  fire."  The  king,  satisfied  that 
the  conditions  had  been  accurately  complied  with,  gave 
orders  for  his  marriage  with  the  lady.  He  loaded  him 
with  riches  and  honours,  and  they  both  ended  their  days 
m  the  greatest  happiness. 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.     The 
i»aghter  is  the  human  soul.      To  measure  the  elements  ' 


, 


GESTA   ROMAXORUM. 


to  subdue  the  lusts  of  the  flesh.  The  fiery  horse  is  any 
sinner,  whom  repentance  changes.  The  Are  in  the  bosom 
is  luxury,  pride,  CTBlioa,  .te.,  and  the  stone  is  a  true  and 
lively  faith  in  Christ. 


TALE     LXXI. 

OF    AN   ETERNAL    RECOMPENSE. 


1" 


A  king  made  a  great  feast,  and  despatched  messengers 
with  invitations,  in  which  the  guests  were  promised  not 
only  a  magniiicent  mitortiiiiiiin/ut,  but  considerable  wealth. 
When  the  messengers  had  gone  through  town  and  country, 
executing  everywhere  the  commands  of  their  king,  it 
happened  that  lliure  dwelt  in  n  certain  city  two  men,  of 
whom  one  wan  valiant  and  robnst.lv  m;idi\ luit  blind;  while 
the  other  was  lame  and  feeble,  but  his  sight  was  excellent. 
Said  the  blind  man  to  thu  lame,  "My  friend,  ours  is  a  hard 
case ;  for  it  is  spread  far  and  near  that  the  king  gives  a 
great  feast,  at  which  every  man  will  receive  not  only  abun- 
dance of  food,  but  much  wealth  ;  and  thou  art  lame,  while 
I  am  blind  :  how  then  shall  we  get  to  the  feast?"  "  Take 
my  counsel,"  replied  the  lame  man,  "  and  we  will  obtain  a 
share  both  of  the  dinner  and  wealth."  "  Verily,"  answered 
the  other,  "I  will  follow  any  counsel  that  may  benefit 
me."  "  Well,  then,"  returned  the  lame  roan,  "  thou  art 
stout  of  heart,  and  robust  of  body,  and  therefore  thou  shall 
carry  me  on  thy  back  who  am  lamo  and  weak,  and  I  will 
guide  you,  since  1  have  good  sight ;  by  this  means  we  shall 
reach  the  festival  and  secure  the  reward."  "Be  it  as  thou 
hast  said,"  replied  he  of  the  legs  ;  "  get  upon  my  back 
immediately."  He  did  so;  the  lame  man  pointed  the  way, 
and  the  other  carried  him.  They  arrived  at  the  feast,  and 
received  the  same  recompense  as  the  rest.* 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who 
prepared  the  feast  of  eternal  life.     The  blind  man  is  t 


*  This  fable  has  crept 


OF  THE   DESTRUCTION"    OF   UNGRATEFUL    MEN.      127 

powerful  of  this  world,  who  are  blind  to  their  future 
safety.  The  lame  ruau  is  any  devout  person,  who  has 
Mliing  in  common  with  the  man  of  the  wurld,  but  seea 
the  kingdom  which  is  to  come." 


TALE  LXXII. 

OF  THE  DESTRUCTION  OF  UNGRATEFUL  MEN. 
Acebtain  king  had  an  only  son,  whom  he  ardently  loved. 
When  the  hoy  arrived  at  mini's  e-state,  day  after  day  ho 
(■"■•iii.'itiiil  his  father  to  resign  the  kingdom,  and  deliver  to 
himself  the  sovereign  power.  "My  dear  eon,"  said  the 
king,  "if  I  were  satisfied  Unit  you  would  treat  me  honour- 
ably and  kindly  during  tho  remainder  of  my  life,  I  should 
have  no  objection  to  relinquish  the  throne  to  you."  The 
sou  answered,  "  My  Lord,  I  will  bind  myself  by  an  oath, 
tefore  all  the  noblemen  of  the  empire,  to  do  in  every 
reepect  aa  a  son  ought  to  do.  Be  confident  that  I  will 
show  greater  honour  to  you  than  to  myself."  The  old 
ting  trusted  to  his  assura-iiees,  and  re-signed  the  supreme 
command.  But  no  sooner  was  the  son  crowned,  and  seated 
on  the  throne  of  his  ancestors,  tlia»  his  heart  underwent  a 
total  change.  For  a  few  years  he  gave  due  honour  to 
his  indulgent  parent,  but  after  that  entirely  neglected 
him.  This  unexpected  and  unmerited  treatment  naturally 
exasperated  the  old  king,  and  hv  began  to  complain  to  the 
*ise  men  of  the  empire  that  his  son  had  broken  the  con- 
tract. They,  therefore,  having  always  loved  the  father, 
reproved  the  son  for  his  ingratitude.  But  the  new  king 
spurned  them  from  him  with  fury;  imprisoned  liis  father 
in  acaBtle,  and  permitted  not  the  smallest  access  to  him. 
Here  he  often  endured  the  extremity  of  hunger,  and  every 
other  sjweies  of  wretchedness. 

■  The  latter  part  of  this  amrnlhtilinn  rrromirvrids  "  liilnlitf.'r  viris 
«Hesisnt  id*  :hri,ittt-  iIiitk.  I>1  1j!i--c  f-.-criti-  n»  viri  rt-ligiosi  tenemur 
v:..-,i-  tiling  Hidutis  . ■fit.-u. Itri-  i|'iu]ii"i|i.  |i.,i.-rlri.,  nd  v 1 1  iiiji  itwnaro  per- 
ronire."  The  nionko  never  forgot  this  —  '1  If  you  pay  ua,  we  will  show 
you  ilie  way  :  elau,  fiud  it  out  yourself"     Sueli  was  the  burden  of 


GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

It  happened  that  the  king  himself  once  passed  the 
night  in  the  same  castle  ;  and  the  father  sent  to  him  the 
following  message: — "  Oh,  my  son,  pity  thy  old  father  who 
gave  up  everything  to  thee.  I  si'ffer  thirst  and  hunger  ; 
and  deprived  of  all  comfort — even  of  wine  to  cheer  me  in 
my  infirmity — I  draw  out  niy  life."  "  I  know  not,"  said 
tlie  king,  "that  there  is  wine  in  this  castle."  He  was 
trdd  that  there  were  five  casks  reposited  in  that  place,  hut 
that  without  his  permission  the  seneschal  refused,  to  draw 
wine  from  them.  "Suffer  me,  my  dear  eon,"  said  the 
unhappy  father,  "  suffer  me  at  least  to  recruit  my  wasted 
form  with  the  first  of  these  casks.''  The  son  refused, 
alleging  that  it  was  new,  and  tliuivfure  prejudicial  to  old 
men.  "Then,"  said  the  old  man,  "give  me  the  second 
cask."  "  I  will  not  do  that,"  answered  the  king,  "  because 
it  is  kept  for  my  own  drinking,  and  for  the  young  noble- 
men who  attend  me."  "Yet  you  will  surely  permit  me 
to  take  the  third,"  continued  his  father ;  "  No,"  replied  the 
other;  "  it  is  very  strong,  and  you  are  so  weak  and  infirm 
that  it  would  kill  you."  "Thy  fourth  cask,  then?"  said 
he,  "  give  me  that."  "  It  is  sour,  and  would  do  you  much, 
injury."  "  But,"  urged  the  father,  "  there  is  a  fifth,  allow 
me  to  retain  it."  "  Oh,"  said  the  king,  "  it  is  nothing  but 
dregs;  the  noblemen  would  charge  me  with  having  filain 
thee  iu  case  thou  wert  permitted  to  drink  of  it."  The 
poor  father,  hearing  excuses  like  these,  went  away  very 
sorrowful ;  but  secretly  wrote  letters  to  the  noblemen, 
declaring  how  he  had  been  treated,  and  imploring  them 
to  relieve  him  from  the  misery  ho  was  compelled  to 
endure.  *His  ill-usage  excited  their  pity  and  indignation ; 
they  restored  the  father,  and  threw  toe  son  into  prison, 
where  he  died." 


APPLICATION. 


3  Christ ;  and  the  t 


i  any 


•  Our  nursery-bookB  contain  a  story  not  unlike  the  present.  A 
fiit her  resijinn  his  estates  to  an  ungrateful  son,  and  is  driven  into  the 
garret,  and  left  i"  ncirU'ct  ami  poverty.  The  grandson  jjities,  and  by 
a  pointed  apeeull  hardly  eliaiactcriistic  of  a  child — reproves,  and 
touehe'i  Lis  parent's  heart. 


OF  AVARICE,   WHICH   MAKES   MANY   BLIND.         129 


TALE  LXXIII 

OF    AVAEICE,   WHICH   MAKES   MANY    BLIND. 

A  certain  king  of  Rome  decreed  that  every  blind  man 
ihonld  annually  receive  a  hundred  shillings.  It  hap- 
pened that  twenty-three  associates  came  into  the  city 
and  entered  a  tavern  to  drink.  They  remained  there 
fcven  days,  both  eating  and  drinking;  but  when  they 
raid  reckon  with  the  tavern-keeper,  they  had  not 
sufficient  money  to  defray  the  expense  of  what  they 
rned.  "  Friends,"  quoth  mine  host,  "  here  be 
ng  a  hundred  shillings.  I  tell  you,  of  a  certainty, 
not  hence  till  ye  have  paid  the  uttermost  farthing." 
rather  startled  tho  revellers,  who,  turning  to  one 
"aimed,  "What  shall  we  do?  We  cannot  pay 
m."  At  length  ono  of  them  observed,  "  Listen 
tome;  I  will  give  you  the  best  advice.  The  king  of  this 
ronDtry  has  decreed  that  whosoever  is  blind  shall  receive 
from  his  treasury  one  hundred  shillings.  Let  us  then  cast 
lota,  and  upon  whomsoever  the  lot  falls,  we  will  deprive 
liniof  sight,  and  send  him  to  the  king  for  the  promissd 
Wvolence.  Thus  we  shall  depart  in  peace."  They  all 
agreed  that  the  counsel  was  excellent;  and  casting  lots, 
tne  chance  fell  upon  the  contriver  of  the  expedient ;  whose 
eyes  they  immediately  put  out.  He  was  then  led  to  tho 
pttlace.  Arriving  at  the  gate,  they  knocked  and  were 
admitted  by  the  porter,  who  inquired  their  business. 
"  blind  man  answered,  "  I  am  one  entitled,  from  my 
icy  of  sight,  to  tho  benefit  of  the  royal  donation." 
"  said  the  porter,  "I  will  inform  the  seneschal." 
t  accordingly;  hut  the  wary  seneschal  first  deter- 
to  examine  his  exterior  before  he  delivered  the 
He  did  so,  and  then  asked  what  he  wanted.  "  A 
shillings,"  replied  he,  "which  the  law  gives  to 
-v  blind  man."  "  My  friend,"  said  the  seneschal,  "  if 
I  am  not  greatly  mistaken,  I  saw  you  yesterday  in  a 
biera  with  both  eyes  perfect.  You  misinterpret  the  law. 
k  relates  to  those  who,  by  some  natural  infirmity,  or  by 
accident,  become  blind — and  against  which  there  was  no 


130 


GESTA    ROJIANOKUM. 


defence.  Such  the  law  protects  and  relieves.  But  you 
voluntarily  surrendered  your  eyes;  you  drank  away  your 
money  in  a  tavern,  aud  planned  this  deceit.  Seek,  there- 
fore, consolation  and  relief  in  the  same  place,  for  you  shall 
not  get  a  halfpenny  here."  The  blind  man  then  retired 
in  great  confusion  from  the  palace. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  law  in  the  story  is  the  law  of  God. 
He  who  errs  by  natural  infirmity,  or  through  the  tempta- 
tions of  the  devil,  and  repents,  is  forgiven.  But  if  any 
one,  from  pure  malice,  shall  commit  sin  and  fall  into 
despair,  he  can  scarcely,  if  at  all,  be  pardoned.  The 
tavern-keeper  is  the  dbvil. 


TALE   LXXIV. 

OF   FORESIGHT   AND   CARE. 

A  king  had  an  only  son,  whom  he  tenderly  loved.  Ha 
caused  a  golden  apple  to  be  made  at  an  immense  expense ; 
and  shortly  after  its  fabrication  he  sickened.  Finding  his 
end  approach,  he  called  to  him  his  son,  and  spoke  after  the 
following  manner: — "My  dear  son,  I  shall  not  recover 
from  the  sickness  under  which  I  suffer,  and  on  my  blessing 
1  charge  you,  travel  through  town  and  country,  and  take 
with  you  the  golden  apple  which  I  caused  to  be  made; 
find  out  the  greatest  fool,  and  deliver  to  him  that  apple  from 
me."  The  son  faithfully  promised  to  execute  his  parent's 
wish;  and  the  king,  turning  himself  toward  the  wall, 
resigned  his  spirit.  A  splendid  funeral  was  prepared,  and 
after  the  interment  the  son  set  out  upon  his  travels,  with 
the  apple  in  his  possession. 

He  traversed  many  countries  and  kingdoms,  and  found 
abundance  of  fools,  but  none  whom  he  thought  quite 
worthy  of  the  apple.  At  last  he  entered  a  certain  province, 
and  approached   ite  principal  city.     Observing  the  king. 


OF    FORESIGHT   AND   CARE.  131 

'fry  magnificently  attended,  riding  through  I  In.'  streets,  he 
Mod  rarioua  qtteations  respecting  the  person  he  saw,  anil 
Hpecidly  of  the  institutions  of  the  country.  He  wan 
inewered  that,  according  to  their  custom,  the  throne  was 
iinmnliy  vacated;  avul  tliat  the  late  possessor,  deprived  of 
(very  honour,  was  driven  into  banishment,  where  ho  died 
in  obscurity  and  poverty.  Tho  traveller,  hearing  this 
Mwunt.  exclaimed.  "  Thin  is  the  man  ;  I  have  found  hi  in 
*Lom  I  Bought;"  and  immediately  hastening  to  the 
palace,  he  bent  his  knee,  arid  cried,  "  Hail,  oil  king  !  my 
deceased  father  bequeathed  to  you  this  gulden  apple  in  his 
l»rt  will."  The  king  received  the  gift  and  said,  "My 
friend,  how  can  this  ho?  Y  our  royal  parent  knew  nothing 
'if  me.  nor  have  1  ever  performed  any  service  to  him. 
fthy.then.  hath  he  left  me  so  valuable  a  present?"  "The 
Hug,  my  Lord,"  replied  lie.  "  bequeathed  it  not  more  to  you 
than  to  another;  tint  on  his  blessing,  he  charged  me  to 
Wow  it  upon  the  greatest  fool  that  I  could  find.  And  I 
bve  now  travelled  through  various  kingdoms  and  coun- 
tries, tut  nowhere  have  1  discovered  so  exquisite  a  fool 
and  madman.  Therefore,  according  to  my  sire's  command. 
lsViiien  the  apple  to  your  most  gracious  majesty."  "  But,'' 
■Jd  the  king,  "on  what  account  do  you  take  me  for  so 
pwt  a  feed  ?  "  "  I  will  tell  you,  my  Lord,"  returned  the 
«tier.  "  You  are  king  for  one  year ;  and  then,  doomed  to 
poverty  and  exile,  you  perish  most  miserably.  I  declare 
*>  you,  I  do  not  believe  that  there  is  in  the  whole  world 
wt'.'ti  an  instaneu  of  egregious  folly.  For  would  any  but 
*  t'nil  choose  so  short  a  time  of  splendour  for  an  end  bo 
■aluaitouB?"  "Why,"  replied  the  king,  "you  are  doubt- 
Iobb  right ;  and  therefore,  while  I  yet  reign,  I  will  prepare 
'»r  my  future  existence.  1  will  send  the  greater  portion  of 
my  wealth  into  a  remote  land,  upon  which  1  may  live  in 
comfort,  when  I  am  driven  into  exile."  lie  did  so  ;  and 
■  ■  number  of  years  enjoyed  great  prosperity,  and  ended 
1»  life  in  peace. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  who  bequeathed  a  golden  apple 
™"    t  apple  is  the  world.     The  king  win, 


!  GESTA    ROMANORUM. 

reigned  for  a  year  is  any  man  who  lives  in  this  world 
i  considered  with  respect  to  futurity)  but  as  a  single  hour. 
Let  us  then  make  provision  for  the  future. 


OF   WORLDLY   ANXIETY. 


There  formerly  lived  a  king  who  had  three  fair  daughters. 
He  married  them  to  three  dukes ;  but,  unhappily,  all  their 
husbands  died  in  the  space  of  one  year.  The  king,  being 
made  acquainted  with  this  circumstance,  would  have  had 
his  daughters  marry  again,  and  calling  the  first  into  hta 
presence  be  said,  "  My  dear  daughter,  your  husband  is 
dead  ;  I  will  therefore  unite  yon  to  another."  But  she 
would  by  no  means  con svi it,  and  assigned  for  it  this  reason: 
"  If  I  marry  again,  I  should  love  my  second  husband 
equally  wir.li  the  first  ;  perhupK  move,  or  it.  might  be  less. 
This  ought  not  to  be;  for  my  first  husband  possessed  my 
uarlio.it.  alfoction — my  virgin  tmth.  Therefore  the  second 
ought  not  to  be  loved  so  well.  But  I  might  love  him  more, 
stud  this  would  increase  the  evil :  on  the  other  hand,  if  I 
hived  him  less,  there  would  exist  only  contention  between 
us.  So  that  I  resolve  never  to  be  espoused  again."  The 
king,  satisfied  with  what  he  heard,  called  another  of  bis 
d;i .ughters,  and  proposed  the  same  thing  to  her  as  to  hor 
oldest  sister.  She  replied,  "My  Lord.  I  also  decline  this 
matter.  For  should  I  comply,  it  must  be  either  for  riches, 
or  power,  or  beauty.  Now,  of  riches  I  have  quite  enough  ; 
my  friends  are  sufficiently  numerous  to  defend  mo;  and  as 
for  beauty,  I  do  nut  believe  there  was  so  beautiful  a  person 
in  the  world  as  my  late  husband.  Therefore,  I  too  resolve 
upon  a  single  state."  The  king  then  applied  to  the  third 
daughter,  and  she  gave  the  following  leasuns  for  refusing 
hts  request :— "  If,"  said  she,  "  I  marry,  my  huBband  must 
desire  me  either  for  my  beauty  or  my  wealth.  Now,  it  can- 
not he  for  the  former,  because  I  am  not  beautiful;  then,  it 
must  be  for  the  latter,  and  true  love  never  existed  which 


OF   CONCORD. 

was  founded  upon  mercenary  feelings.  When  wealth  flies. 
W  flies  with  it.*  Therefore,  I  would  on  no  account 
many  again.  Moreover,  the  Sacred  Writings  say  that  a 
husband  and  wife  are  one  body  but  two  souls ;  therefore, 
tho  body  of  my  husband  is  my  body,  and  the  converse. 
Eiery  day  I  visit  the  sepulchre  of  my  deceased  lord,  and 
he  is  ever  present  to  my  mind.  For  all  these  causes.  I 
determine  to  remain  as  I  am."  The  king,  pleased  with  the 
virtuous  resolutions  of  hie  daughters,   solicited   them  no 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  ting  is  God.  The  three  daughters  are 
trie  soul,  which  image  the  Holy  Trinity.  For  God  said, 
*'  Let  us  make  man  in  our  image ; "  therefore  the  Trinity  in 
unity  is  typified  by  the  soul,  and  the  soul  represented  by 
three  persons.  The  three  dukes  are  the  devil,  the  world, 
and  the  flesh ;  when  they  die,  that  is,  when  the  soul 
repents  of  her  sins,  do  not  again  be  united  to  them. 


TALE     LXXVI. 


OF   CONCORD. 


*W  physicians  once  resided  in  a  city,  who  were  admirably 
•killed  in  medicine  ;  insomuch  that  all  the  sick  who  took 
tiffiir  prescriptions  were  healed,  and  it  thence  became  a 
question  with  the  inhabitants  which  of  them  was  the  best. 
After  a  while,  a  dispute  arose  between  them  upon  this 
Said  one,  "  My  friend,  why  should  discord  or  envy 
ir  separate  us  ?  Let  us  make  the  trial,  and  whosoever 
rior  in  skill  shall  serve  the  other."  "But  how," 
1  his  friend,  "is  this  to  be  brought  about?"  The 
it  physician  answered,  "  Hear  me.  I  will  pluck  out  your 
B,  without  doing  you  the  smallest  injury,  and  lay  thei 

i  at  the  door,  Love  flies  o 


134 


GESTA    ROMAS'ORUM. 


before  yon  on  the  table ;  and  when  you  desire  it,  I  will 
replace  them  as  perfect  and  serviceable  as  they  were  before. 
If,  in  like  manner,  yon  can  perform  this,  we  will  then  he 
esteemed  equal,  and  walk  as  brethren  through  the  world. 
But,  remember,  he  who  fails  in  the  attempt  shall  become 
the  servant  of  the  other."  "  I  am  well  pleased,"  returned 
Ids  fellow,  "  to  do  as  you  say."  Whereupon,  he  who  mado 
the  proposition  took  out  his  instruments  and  extracted  the 
eyes,  besmearing  the  sockets  and  the  outer  part  of  the  lids 
with  a  certain  rich  ointment.  "  My  dear  friend,"  said  he, 
'•  what  do  you  perceive '! "  "  Of  a  surety,"  cried  the  other, 
"  I  see  nothing.  I  want  the  use  of  my  eyes,  but  I  feel  no 
pain  from  their  loss.  I  pray  yon,  however,  restore  them 
to  their  places  as  you  promised."  "  Willingly,"  said  his 
friend.  He  again  touched  the  inner  and  outer  part  of  the 
lids  with  the  oint7uent,  and  then,  with  much  precision, 
inserted  the  balls  into  theiT  sockets.  "  How  do  you  see 
now?"  asked  he.  "Excellently,"  returned  the  other,  "nor 
do  I  feel  the  least  pain."  "  Well,  then,"  continued  the 
first,  "  it  now  remains  for  you  to  treat  me  in  a  similar 
manner.""  "  I  am  ready,"  said  the  latter.  And  accord- 
ingly taking  the  instruments,  as  the  first  had  done,  be 
smeared  the  upper  and  under  parts  of  the  eye  with  a 
peculiar  ointment,  drew  out  the  eyes  and  placed  them  upon 
the  table.  The  patient  felt  no  pain  ;  but  added,  "  I  wish 
you  would  hasten  to  restore  them."  The  operator  cheer- 
fully complied ;  but  as  he  prepared  his  implements,  a  crow 
entered  by  an  open  window,  and  seeing  the  eyes  upon  the 
table,  snatched  one  of  them  up,  and  flew  away  with  it. 
The  physician,  vexed  at  what  had  happened,  said  to  him- 
self, "  If  I  do  not  restore  the  eye  to  my  companion,  I  must 
become  his  slave."  At  that  moment  a  goat,  browsing  at 
no  great  distance,  attracted  Lis  observation.  Instantly  be 
ran  to  it,  drew  out  one  of  its  eyes,  and  put  it  into  the  place 
of  the  lost  orb.  "  My  dear  friend,"  exclaimed  the  operator, 
"  how  do  things  appear  to  you  ?  "  "  Neither  in  extracting 
nor  in  replacing,"  he  answered,  "did  I  suffer  the  least  pain; 
but— bless  me  ! — one  eye  looks  up  to  the  trees!"     "Ah!" 

"  A  foolish  physician.  IF  the  other  siiwwlffl.  In:  wkitfwlcrlgpd 
his  superiority,  or  equality,  at  least;  if  not,  be.  lost  his  eyea.  At  all 
events,  liv  cuuM  j_ni]i  nothing  l>y  thu  experiment. 


■ 


OF  RICHES,   WHICH   ABE    NOT   TO    BE   COVETED.     135 

replied  the  firet,  "  thin  is  the  very  perfection  of  medicine. 
Neither  of  ua  is  superior ;  henceforward  we  will  be  friends, 
at  we  are  equals ;  and  banish  far  off  that  spirit  of  con- 
tention which  has  destroyed  our  peace."  They  lived  from 
this  time  in  the  greatest  amity. 


My  beloved,  the  two  physicians  are  the  new  and  th 
old  law.  Thus  the  Jews  and  Christians  contend :  the 
extracted  eyes  denote  those  parts  of  the  old  law  which 
Christians  retain.  The  crow  is  the  devil ;  and  the  goat's 
eye  typifies  those  ceremonies  of  the  Jews  to  which  they 
attach  so  much  importance,  and  by  which  they  are  not  able 
to  discern  the  truth.* 


TALE    LXXVII. 

OP  EICHES,   WHICH  ARE   NOT   TO    BE    COVETED. 

A  certain  king  had  two  daughters,  one  of  whom  was 
eitremely  beautiful,  and  very  much  beloved.  The  other, 
however,  was  of  a  dark,  unprepossessing  complexion,  and 
haled  as  much  as  her  sister  was  esteemed.  This  differem.' 
in  their  appearance  caused  the  king  to  give  them  charac- 
teristic  names.  He  called  the  first  Rosamunda^  that  is, 
the  fragrant  rose ;  and  the  second,  Gratiaplena,  or  the  full 
*f  grace. 

A  herald  was  commanded  to  proclaim  that  all  men 
eluralil  come  to  him,  and  he  would  give  his  daughters  to 

*  ThiB  is  to  see  the  beam  in  a  neighbour's  eye,  and  forget  that  in 

tttirown.  Tin:  Csitli-lic  ivrtimmis.'*  uru  uuera  to  the  same  censure, 
•ndare  equally  prcjwlicuil  in  [heir  «Jiisequcucea. 

t  Or  Rosa  mundi,  roue  of  the  world.  There  are  two  monkinh 
'■■'lin  Yi-rHi.-.j  iri-.-riU'ii  over  ihr  unfurlinnili.:  iniruiiji-ur  of  lltiirv  11. 
ite*. s-.i.-i i J 


136 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


those  who  were  worthy.  But  whoever  got  the  beautiful 
girl  to  wife  should  hare  nothing  hut  her  beauty;  and  he 
who  selected  the  dark  girl  should  succeed  him  to  the 
throne.  Multitudes  flocked  to  the  summons ;  but  every 
one  still  clung  to  the  fair  lady,  and  not  even  the  tempta- 
tion of  a  kingdom  could  induce  any  one  to  espouse  the 
other.  Gratiaplena  wept  bitterly  at  her  unhappy  fate, 
'•  My  daughter,"  said  tin*  king,  "why  are  you  so  grievously 
afflicted?"  "Oh,  my  father,"  returned  she,  "no  one  visits 
or  speaks  kindly  to  me ;  all  pay  their  attentions  to  my 
sister,  and  despise  me."  "  Why,  my  dear  daughter,"  said 
the  father,  "  do  you  not  know  that  whosoever  marries  you 
will  possess  the  crown  ?  "  The  lady  dried  her  tears,  and 
was  marvellously  comforted. 

Not  long  after  a  king  entered  the  royal  palace,  and, 
seeing  the  great  beauty  of  Rosamunda,  desired  her  in  mar- 
riage. The  king,  her  father,  consented,  and  she  was 
espoused  with  great  joy.  But  the  other  daughter  remained 
many  years  un betrothed.  At  last  a  certain  poor  nobleman, 
very  wisely  reflecting  that  though  the  girl  was  abominably 
ugly  yet  she  was  rich,  determined  to  marry  her.  He  there- 
fore went  to  the  king,  and  solicited  his  consent;  who,  glad 
enough  at  the  proposal,  cheerfully  host  owed  her  upon 
him ;  and  after  his  decease,  bequeathed  him  the  kingdom. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  Rosa- 
munda  ia  the  world,  which  every  one  loves.  The  other 
daughter,  Gratiaplena,  so  abhorred  by  the  world,  is  poverty. 
But  the  poor  in  spirit  will  receive  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 


TALE  LXXVIII. 


OF   THE   CONSTANCY   OF    LOVE. 


The  beautiful  daughter  of  a  certain  king  was  betrothed  to 
a  noble  duke,  by  whom  she  had  very  handsome  children. 
The  duke  died,  and  was  greatly  bewailed  by  the  whole 


OF  PRESUMPTION.  137 

atote.  After  his  death,  her  friends  earnestly  solicited  the 
lady  to  marry  a,  second  time,  alleging  that  her  youth  and 
beauty  required  it.  But  she  answered,  "I  will  never 
many  again.  My  departed  lord  waa  bo  good  and  kind ; 
he  loved  me  bo  truly,  that  I  verily  believe  I  shall  not  live 
much  longer.  And  if  it  were  possible  that  I  could  forget 
"what  lie  has  been,  where  shall  I  find  another?  Admitting 
"that  I  should  marry,  perhaps  my  second  husband  would 
also  precede  me  to  the  grave  ?  Why,  then,  my  grief  would 
Xb  awakened  tho  second  time,  and  my  afflictions  be  as 
heavy  as  before  I  Moreover,  if  ho  were  a  bad  man,  it 
Mould  indeed  be  torture  to  remember  him  who  was  good, 
■while  one  so  inferior  had  succeeded  him.  I  am  therefore 
determined  to  remain  as  I  am."  * 


APPLICATION. 


TALE    LXXIX. 

OF   PRESUMPTION. 


There  was  a  certain  king  who  had  a  singular  partiality 
for  little  dogs  that  harked  loudly  ;  so  much  so,  indeed,  that 
they  usually  rested  in  his  lap.  Being  long  accustomed  to 
^at  and  sleep  iii  this  situation,  they  would  scarcely  do 
pi  tier  elsewhere  :  seeming  to  take  great  pleasure  in  look- 
ing at  him,  and  putting  their  paws  upon  his  neck ;  and 
■*hog  the  king  got  much  amusement  from  their  antics. 
■Now,  it  happened  that  an  ass,  who  noticed  this  familiarity, 
thought  to  himself,  "  If  I  should  sing  and  dance  before 
*h«  king,  and  put  my  feet  round  his  neck,  he  would  feed 
^ne  also  upon  the  greatest  dainties,  and  suffer  me  to  rest 
in  Ub  lap."  Accordingly,  quitting  his  stable,  he  entered 
See  Tale   LXXV.,   which  is   similar   both    iu    structure   uii  I 


138 


OESTA   BOMAKOECM. 


ihe  hall,  anil  running  up  to  the  ting,  raised  his  clumsy 
feet  with  difficulty  around  the  royal  neck.  The  servants, 
not  understanding  the  ass's  courteous  intention,  imagined 
that  he  was  mad ;  and  pulling  him  away,  belaboured  him 
■outidly.     He  was  then  led  back  to  the  stable.* 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  barking  dogs  are 
?!ealous  preachers.  The  ass  is  any  one  who,  without  the 
necessary  qualifications,  presumes  to  take  upon  himself 
the  interpretation  of  the  word  of  God. 


enter  tl. 

Wit 

turned  ; 


There  formerly  lived  a  hermit,  who  in  a  remote  cave 
paused  night  and  day  in  the  service  of  God.  At  no  great 
distance  from  his  cell  a  shepherd  tended  his  flock.  It 
happened  that  this  person  one  day  fell  into  a  deep  sleep, 
it tid  in  the  mean  time  a  rubber,  perceiving  his  carelessness, 
curried  off  bis  sheep.  When  the  keeper  awoke  and  dis- 
covered the  theft,  ho  began  to  swear  in  good  get  terms 
that  he  had  lost  his  sheep  ;  and  where  they  were  conveyed 
was  totally  beyond  his  knowledge.  Now,  the  lord  of  the 
flock,  when  he  heard  this,  was  tilled  with  rage,  and  com- 
manded him  to  bo  put  to  death.  This  gave  great  umbrage 
to  tliB  hermit  1»;  ft  ire  mentioned.  "  Ob,  Heaven,"  said  he  to 
himself,  "seest  thou  this  deed?  the  innocent  suffers  for 
the  guilty:  why  permit  test  thou  such  things?  If  thus 
injustice  triumph,  why  do  I  remain  here?  I  will  again 
enter  the  world,  and  do  as  other  men  do." 

With  these  feelingj  he  quitted  his  hermitage,  and  re- 
turned into  the  world  ;  but  God  willed  not  that  he  should 


We  buvo  here  i 


OF   THE   CUNNING    OF   THE   DEVIL.  139 

be  lost :  an  angel  in  the  form  of  a  man  was  commissioned 
to  join  him.     Accordingly,  crossing  the  hermit's  path,  he 
tins  accosted  him — "  My  friend,  where  are  you  going  ?  " 
"  I  go,"  said  the  other,  "  to  the  city  before  us."     "  I  will 
accompany  yon,"  replied  the  angel ;  "  I  am  a  messenger 
from  heaven,  and  come  to  be  the  associate  of  your  way." 
They  walked  on  together  towards  the  city.     When  they 
iiai  entered,  they  entreated  for  the  love  of  God  *  har- 
Iwirage  during  the  night  at  the  house  of  a  certain  knight, 
■*v-ho  received  them   with   cheerfulness,    and  entertained 
"fcfcem  with  much  magnificence.     The  knight  had  an  only 
eon  lying  in   the   cradle,   whom    he   exceedingly  loved. 
-After  supper,  their  bed-chamber  was  sumptuously  deco- 
rated; and  the  angel  retired  with  the  hermit  to  rest.     But 
a-"bout  the  middle  of  the  night  the   former  got  up  and 
•strangled  the  sleeping  infant.     The  hermit,  horror-struck 
a.t.  what   he  witnessed,  said   within   himself,  "Never  can 
"tills  be  an  angel  of  God  :  the  good  knight  gave  him  every- 
"tlaing  that  was  necessary ;  he  had  but  this  poor  innocent, 
&nd  this  strange  companion  of  mine  has  strangled  him." 
"V^et  he  was  afraid  to  reprove  him. 

In  the  morning  both  arose  and  went  forward  to  another 

city,  in  which  they  were  honourably  entertained  at  the 

house  of  one  of  the  inhabitants.     This   person  possessed 

a-  superb  golden  cup  which  he  highly  valued  ;  and  which, 

•luring    the   night,    the    angel   purloined.      The    hermit 

thought,  "  Verily,  this  is  one  of  the  lost  angels  ;  our  host 

lias  treated  us  well,  and  yet  he  has  robbed  him."     But 

fctill  he  held  his  peace,  for  his  apprehension  was  extreme. 

&  morrow  they  continued  their  journey ;  and  as  they  , 

d  they  came  to  a  certain  river,  over  which  a  bridge 

is  thrown  ;  they  ascended  the  bridge,  and  about  raid-way 

»  poor  man  met  them,     "  My  friend,"  said  the  angel  to 

him,  "  show  us  the  way  to  yonder  city."     The  pilgrim 

turned,  and  pointed  with  his  finger  to  the  road  they  were 

to  take ;  but  as  he  turned,  the  angel  seized  him  by  the 

shoulders,  and   precipitated  him  into  the  stream  below. 

At  this  the  terrors  of  the  hermit  were  again  aroused — 

t  is  the  devil,"  exclaimed  he  internally — "it  is  the 

*  Tha  common    mode   of    supplication,    and    will    be   frcquontlj 


GESTA   ROMANOnrST. 

devil,  and  no  good  angel !  What  evil  had  the  poor  man 
i.l'iiii.'  that  ho  should  be  drowned?"  He  would  now  have 
ghidiy  departed  iiliint;  ;  hut  was  afraid  to  give  utterani*  (u 
the  thoughts  of  his  heart.  About  the  hour  of  vespers  they 
reached  a  city,  in  which  they  again  sought  shelter  for  the 
night ;  hut  the  master  of  the  house  to  whom  they  ii|i]Ji'J 
sharply  refused  it.  "For  the  love  of  Heaven,"  said  tha 
angel,  "  afford  ub  a  shelter,  lest  we  fall  a  prey  to  the 
wolves  and  other  wild  boasts."  The  man  pointed  lo  « 
stye — "  That,"  said  he,  "  is  inhabited  by  pigs ;  if  it  pka^s 
you  to  lie  there,  you  may — but  to  no  other  place  «ill  I 
admit  you."  "  If  we  can  do  no  better,"  returned  the  angel, 
"  we  must  accept  your  ungracious  offer."  Thoy  did  no; 
and  in  the  morning  the  angel,  calling  their  host,  aid, 
'•My  friend.  1  give  you  this  cup;"  and  he  presented  to 
him  the  stolen  goblet.  The  hermit,  more  and  more  as- 
tonished at  what  ho  saw,  said  to  himself,  "Now  I  am 
certain  this  is  the  devil.  Tho  good  man  who  received 
us  with  all  kindness  he  despoiled,  and  gives  the 
plunder  to  this  fellow  who  refused  us  a  Induing."  Turn- 
ing to  the  angel,  he  exclaimed,  "  I  will  travel  with  JM] 
o  longer.  I  commend  you  to  God."  "  Dear  friend, 
answered  the  angel,  "  first  hear  me.  and  then  go  thy 
way.  "When  thou  wert  in  thy  hermitage,  the  owner  of 
Ihe  (loci;  unjustly  put  to  death  his  servant.  True  it'5 
he  died  innocently,  but  he  had  formerly  done  deeds  for 
which  he  deserved  to  die.  God  allowed  hira  to  he  slain, 
to  enable  him  to  escape  the  future  consequences  of  tbo» 
former  sins  of  which  he  bad  not  repented.  But  the 
guilty  man  who  stole  the  sheep  will  suffer  eternally 
while  the  owner  of  tho  flock  will  repair,  by  alma  W>™ 
good  works,  that  which  he  ignorantly  committed.  As  for 
the  son  of  the  hospitable  knight,  whom  I  strangled  in  tke 
cradle,  know  that  before  the  boy  was  born  he  perform*1* 
numerous  works  of  charity  and  mercy,  but  afterward' 
grew  parsimonious  and  covetous,  in  order  to  enrich  tb» 
child,  of  which  he  was  inordinately  fond.  This  was  th* 
cause  of  its  death ;  and  now  its  distressed  parent  again  ** 
become  a  devout  Christian,  Then,  for  tho  cup  which  ■ 
purloined  from  him  who  received  us  so  kindly,  know  tb* 
before  the  cup  was  made,  there  was  not  a  more  abstemio*** 


OF   THE    DISPENSATIONS   OF   PROVIDENCE.  141 

person  in  the  world  ;  but  afterwards  he  took  such  pleasure 
in  it,  and  drank  from,  it  bo  often,  that  he  was  intoxicated 
twice  or  thrice  during  the  day.  I  took  away  the  cup,  and 
he  has  turned  to  his  former  sobriety.  Again,  I  cast  the 
pilgrim  into  the  river  ;  and  know  that  ho  whom  I  drowned 
was  a  good  Christian,  but  had  he  proceeded  much  further, 
he  would  have  fallen  into  a  mortal  sin.  Now  he  is  saved, 
and  reigns  in  celestial  glory.  Then,  that  I  bestowed  the 
oup  upon  the  inhospitable  citizen,  know  nothing  is  done 
without  reason.  He  suffered  us  to  occupy  the  swine- 
house,  and  I  gave  him  a  valuable  consideration.  But  ke 
will  hereafter  reign  in  hell.  Put  a  guard,  therefore,  on 
thy  lips,  and  detract  not  from  the  Almighty.  For  He 
knoweth  all  things."  The  hermit,  hearing  this,  fell  at 
the  feet  of  the  angel  and  entreated  pardon.  He  returned 
to  his  hermitage,  and  became  a  good  and  pious  Chris- 
tian. (7) 


TALE  LXXXI. 


Tub  Emperor  Marcus  had  an  only  son  and  daughter,  to 
whom  he  was  extremely  attached.  When  he  was  much 
advanced  in  years,  he  was  seized  with  a  grievous  sickness  ; 
anil  seeing  his  end  approach,  summoned  into  his  presence 
the  chief  nobles  of  his  empire.  "My  friends,"  said  he, 
"  know  that  this  day  my  spirit  will  return  to  the  God 
who  gave  it.  All  my  conuem  resides  in  an  only  daughter, 
whom  I  have  not  yet  bestowed  in  marriage.  Therefore, 
do  thou,  my  son  and  heir,  upon  my  blessing,  provide  fur 
her  an  honourable  and  befitting  lni.sb.ind  ;  and  as  long  as 
thou  liveBt,  value  her  as  thine  own  self,"  Saying  tlie.se 
words,  he  turned  toward  the  wall,  and  his  spirit  fled. 
The  state  made  irrent  lamentation,  and  interred  him  witli 
much  magnificeneo. 

The  young  emperor  commenced  his  reign  with  great 


I 


142  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

■wisdom,   and  in   all  that  related   to   his   sister    strict  "1? 
fulfilled  his  father's  dying  injunction.     He  seated  her      "5& 
the  same  chair  with  him  at  table,  and  assigned  to  her-     ° 
separate   couch   in  the  same  apartment  that  he  oocupi  ^ed 
himself.      Here  began  their  unhappmess.      Tempted  "fc^y 
the  devil,  he  gave  way  to  the  most  horrible  desires ;  aK^o 
finally,   in  spite  of  the  pleading  of  the  wretched  gir^*h 
violated  every  law  both  human  and  divine.     Her  tea^K^8" 
if  tears  could   have   retrieved   the  ignominy,    had  be^^^11 
enough:    she   wept    bitterly,   and    refused  all  coraibr^^*j 
although    the  emperor   attempted  to    console    her,    at-*"11* 
evinced  the  excess  of  grief  and  love.     About  the  niidd-— —  6 
of  the  year,  as  they  sat  at  table,  the  brother  narrow]       1) 
scrutinized  his  sister's  looks.      "My   beloved  sister."   sai     --*  . 
he,   "why   dost   thou  change  colour?   the   upper   part  i— -— -* 
thine  eyelids  darken."     "No  wonder,"  she   re  turned,  "fb^    " 
1     bear    the   weight   of    thy    most    fearful    wickedness. 
Hearing  this,   the  emperor   felt  his  spirit  sink   withb^^*) 
him,  and  turning  round,  wept  very  bitterly.      "  Perish, 
said  he,  "  the  evil  day  that  I  was  born ;  what  is  to  b^«^* 
done?  "     "  My  brother,"  said  the  lady,  "  bear  me  ;  we  ar^^^ 
not,  alas,  the  first  who  have  grievously    offended    God— ---■ 
There  is,  as  you  well  know,  a  certain  ancient  knight,  ones^ 
of  the  most  approved  counsellors  of  our  late  father :  caltf^ 
him  hither,  and,  under  the  seal  of  confession,  let  us  tel^^- 
him  the  whole  sad  story;  he  will  give  us  counsel  how  »-a^ 
may  make  atonement  to  God,    and  avoid  disgrace  before^-" 
the   world."      The    emperor    assented — "  but,"    said    he, 
'•  let  us  study  in  the  first,  place  to  be   lecurid  led   to  God." 
They  were  then  both  confessed,  and  their  contrition  was 
perfect  as  sincere.     Afterwards   sending  for  the  knight, 
they  revealed  amid  a  flood  of  tears  their  crime.     "My 
lord,"  he  replied,  "since  ye  are  reconciled  to  God,  hear 
what   I  counsel.     As  well  for  your  own  sins,  as  for  the 
sins  of  your  father,  hasten  to  the  Holy  Land ;  and  before 
you  embark,  call  together  the  noblemen  of  the  kingdom, 
and   explain   to   them  your  intent.     And   because  your 
sister  is  your  only  heir,  charge  them  to  be  obedient  to 
her.     Then,  turning  to  me,  command  that  she  be  placed 
under  my  custody;  and  that,  as  I  value  my   life,  she  be 
securely  and  happily  lodged.     I  will  so  provide  that  her 


t   THE   DISPENSATIONS   OF   PROVIDENCE.  143 

parturition  be  kept  secret,  and  every  one  remain  ignorant 
of  her  fate — unless,  indeed,  my  wife  be  made  acquainted 
with  it,  in  order  to  wait  upon  her  in  her  necessity." 
"You  counsel  well,"  rejoined  the  king,  "and  I  will  do 
ae  you  have  said." 

Immediately  the  noblemen  were  summoned,  and  pre- 
parations made  for  the  emperor's  departure  to  the  Holy 
Land.  His  sister  was  conveyed  to  the  knight's  castle; 
and  when  his  wife  beheld  her  she  inquired  whom  he  had 
brought.  He  answered,  "The  king's  sister;  but,  wife, 
swear  to  me  by  all  that  thou  boldest  sacred,  on  penalty 
of  thy  life,  never  to  .oommuniciite  to  a  living  suul  that 
which  I  am  about  to  impart."  She  swore  accordingly; 
and  the  knight  then  informed  her  of  the  situation  of  the 
lady,  and  his  desire  that  no  one  might  attend  her  but 
herself.  The  obedient  spouse  promised  compliance,  and 
the  lady  was  privately  introduced  into  tbo  lia.IL  appointed 
for  her  residence.  She  was  splendidly  attended,  and  when 
the  time  of  her  confinement  came  on,  she  was  safely- 
delivered  of  a  beautiful  boy.  As  soon  as  the  knight 
understood  this,  he  entreated  permission  to  call  in  a 
priest  for  the  purpose  of  performing  the  rite  of  baptism. 
But  she  positively  refused,  declaring  that  its  shameful 
birth  forbade  her  to  interfere,  since  it  would  expose  her 
to  detection  and  disgrace.  "  Your  crime  indeed  is  heavy," 
returned  the  knight,  "but  consider,  should  your  child, 
therefore,  perish  immortally  ? "  "  My  vow  is  registered 
in  heaven,"  said  the  lady ;  "  I  have  sworn,  nor  will  I  add 
perjury   to  my   faults.      Moreover,    I   command  you   to 

firepare  an  empty  cask."  The  knight  obeyed;  and  the 
ady,  placing  therein  the  cradle  with  the  new-born  boy, 
inscribed  on  small  tablets  the  following  words:  "Know 
ye,  to  whomsoever  chance  may  conduct  this  infant,  that 
it  is  not  baptized,  because  it  is  the  unholy  offspring  of 
incestuous  affection.  JFor  the  love  of  God,  then,  cause  it 
to  be  baptized.  "Under  the  child's  head  you  will  discover 
a  quantity  of  gold,  and  with  this  let  it  be  nunured.  At 
the  feet  is  an  equal  weight  of  silver,  designed  to  assist 
it  in  the  future  prosecution  of  study."  This  done,  she 
deposited  the  tablets  by  the  infant's  side,  the  gold  at  the 
and  the  silver  at  its  feet :  then,  enveloping  it  in  silk 


be* 


144  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

garments  embroidered  with  gold,  she  enclosed  it  in  the 
cask,  and  directed  the  knight  to  cast  it  forthwith  into  the 
sen — trusting  that,  by  the  overruling  providence  of  God, 
it  might  be  carried  into  a  place  of  safety.  The  knight 
faithfully  executed  the  lady  s  wishes  ;  he  threw  the  cask 
into  the  sea,  and,  standing  upon  the  shore,  watched  its 
progress,  until  it  was  at  length  lost  to  his  sight. 

As  he  returned  to  his  castle,  a  king's  messenger  met 
him,  whom  he  thus  accosted:  "Friend,  whenoe  come 
you  ? " 

"  From  the  Holy  Land." 

"  Indeed !  what  rumours  are  abroad  ?  " 

"  My  lord  the  king  is  dead  ;  and  we  have  brought  his 
corpso  to  one  of  his  own  castles." 

Hearing  this,  the  good  knight  could  not  refrain  from 
tears.  At  that  momont,  his  wife  approached,  and,  learning 
the  unwelcome  tidings,  joined  her  tears  to  his.  But  the 
knight,  recovering  somewhat  of  the  dejection  of  spirit  into 
which  the  intelligence  had  thrown  him,  said  to  his  wife, 
"  Weep  not,  I  pray  thee,  lest  our  mistress  should  perceive 
it,  and  inquire  the  cause.  It  were  better  to  keep  silence 
on  this  unwelcome  subject,  until  she  bo  risen  from  her 
child-bed."  Saying  this,  the  knight  entered  the  queen's 
apartment,  followed  by  his  wife.  But  the  manifest  sorrow 
on  their  countenances  could  nut  escape  the  penetration  of 
the  lady,  and  she  eagerly  asked  the  occasion.  "  Dear  lady, 
we  are  not  sad,"  they  said,  "but  rather  joyful  at  your 
rapid  recovery."  "  That  is  not  true,"  replied  she ;  "  I 
conjure  you,  conceal  nothing,  be  it  for  good  or  evil."  "  A 
messenger,"  answered  the  knight,  "  has  just  returned  from 
the  Holy  Land,  convoying  intelligence  of  my  lord,  your 
brother." 

"What  does  the  messenger  say?  Let  him  be  called 
hither." 

This  was  done;  and  the  lady  aBkcd  after  the  king. 
"  He  is  dead,"  said  the  messenger,  "  and  we  have  brought 
the  body  to  his  own  kingdom,  to  be  buried  according  to 
the  rites  of  his  country."  The  lady,  possessed  of  this 
fatal  intelligence,  fell  upon  the  ground ;  and  the  knight 
and  his  wife,  participating  in  her  extreme  grief,  cast 
themselves  besido  her.     For  a  length  of  time,  they  all 


OF   THE    DISPENSATIONS   OF   PROVIDENCE.         145 

three  continued  in  this  attitude ;  and  ho  intense  was  their 
Borrow,  that  neither  sound  nor  sense  appeared  remaining. 
The  lady  arose  first ;  tore  her  hair,  wounded  her  face,  and 
exclaimed  in  a  shrill  voice,  "  Woe  is  me  I     May  that  day 
perish  in  which  I  was  conceived  !     May  that  night  be  no 
more  remembered  in  which  so  great  a  wretch  was  horn. 
How  vast  is  my  iniquity  I     In  me  all  things  are  fulfilled. 
My  hope  is  broken,  and  my   strength ;  he  was   my  only 
brother — the  half  of  my  soul.     What  I  shall  do  hereafter, 
alas !  I  know  not."     The  knight  arose  and  said,  "  Dearest 
1     lady,  listen  to  me.     If  you  suffer  yourself  to  be  thus  con- 
cerned, the  whole  kingdom  will  perish.    You  only  are  left; 
and  you  are  the  lawful  heir.     Shtiuld  you  destroy  yourself, 
the  nation  will  remain  at  the  mercy  of  foreign  powers. 
Arise,  then,  and  direct  the  body  to  be  brought  hither, 
and  honourably  interred.     After  wards,  we  will  debate  con- 
cerning the  prosperity  of  the  kingdom."     Quieted,  if  not 
comforted,  by  the  knight's  words,  she  arose,  and  proceeded 
with  a  noble  company  to  the  castle,  where  her  brother's 
twdy  lay.     It  was  placed  upon  a  bier  ;  and  no  sooner  had 
the  queen  entered,  than  she  fell  upon  the  corpse  and  kissed 
it,  from  the  crown  of  his  head,  even  to  the  soles  of  his 
fet,    Now,  the  soldiers,  perceiving  the  violent  grief  of 
their  queen,  drew  her  from  the  bier,  and  led  her  into  the 
kill;  and  then,  with  great  pomp,  carried  the  body  to  its 
icpalchre. 

A  short  period  after  this,  a  certain  "Duke  of  fiuv^undv 
i'ot  messengers  to  demand  the  lady  in  marriage ;  but  she 
declared  her  fixed  determination  never  to  marry.  Irritated 
j'-Ikt  refusal,  the  duke  observed,  "If  she  had  married  me, 
1  should  indeed  have  been  king  of  the  country;  but  since 
it  is  her  pleasure  to  despise  me,  she  who  fills  the  throne 
shall  enjoy  little  satisfaction."  Whereupon  he  collected 
troops,  and  devastated  every  place  to  wliieli  he  marched. 
He  perpetrated  an  immensity  of  ill,  and  subdued  all  oppo- 
sition. The  queen,  in  this  extremity,  fled  to  a  strongly 
f'irtiEeJ  city,  where  there  was  a  castle  well  appointed  and 
Mended ;  and  here  she  continued  many  years. 

let  us  now  return  to  the  boy,  who  was  thrown  into 
the  sea.  The  cask  in  which  he  was  placed  floated  through 
tt»ay  countries,    until   it  reached,   at   length,   a  certain 


'- 


H6  GESTA  noMANOEUM. 

monastery,  about  the  sixth  festival."  On  that  day,  th* 
abbot  of  the  monastery  proceeded  to  the  sea-shore,  and 
«aid  to  his  fishermen,  "  My  friends,  make  ready  to  &h;" 
and  whilst  they  were  preparing  their  nets,  the  vessel  w«* 
tossed  by  the  motion  of  the  waves  upon  tho  shore.  Tho 
abbot  observed  it,  and  said  to  his  servants,  "  See  ye  that 
cask?  open  it,  and  find  out  what  is  within."  They  did 
bo,  and  behold,  it  was  a  newly  born  boy  covered  with  very 
rich  clothing.  No  sooner  had  the  child  looked  upon  the 
abbot,  than  it  smiled.  The  sight  greatly  concerned  lb» 
worthy  monk.  '•Oh,  my  God,"  said  he,  "  how  comes  it  thai 
we  find  a  child  in  this  ilirpWiiblc  situation  ?"  Raisiog it 
with  his  own  hands,  he  perceived  the  tablets  under  il« 
side,  which  the  mother  had  placed  there;  and  whoa  he 
had  read  them,  he  discovered  that  it  was  the  offspring  »i 
an  incestuous  bed,  and  not  yet  baptized — and  saw  that 
this  sacrament  was  implored,  for  the  sake  of  Heaven;  «id 
that  gold  and  silver  were  deposited  for  his  nurture  and 
education.  When  ho  had  read  this,  and  observed  thatuw 
cradle  was  ornamented  with  rich  cloth,  he  saw  that  the 
boy  was  of  noble  blood.  He  immediately  baptised  and 
called  him  after  his  own  name,  Gregory.  He  then  intnifltd 
him  to  a  fisherman  to  nurse,  with  tho  gold  and  silvw 
found  upon  him.  The  boy  grew  up  universally  beluvwl 
In  his  seventh  year  the  abbot  provided  for  his  stuife, 
which  he  mastered  in  a  surprising  manner ;  insomuch  that 
the  monks  were  as  fond  of  him  as  though  he  had  beeauf 
their  own  order.  In  a  short  time  he  acquired  more  know- 
ledge than  them  all. 

It  happened  that  one  day,  as  he  played  at  ball  *itf> 
the  son  of  the  fudicrmnn,  his  pn -.sinned  lut-hor,  Ly  chiJffl 
he  struck  him  with  the  ball.  The  lad  wept  bitterly.  i"lJ 
running  home,  complained  to  bis  mother  that  he  had  ten 
struck  by  his  brother  Gregory.  Instantly  the  anpj 
mother  issued  out  of  doors,  and  harshly  reproved  him. 
exclaiming,  "Audacious  little  vagabond,  why  hast  tho" 
struck  my  son?  Thou  I — of  whose  origin  and  country 
we  know  nothing — how  darest  thou  do  this?"  "De« 
mother,"  answered  Gregory,  "am  I  not  your  son?     Why 

*  That  is,  six  monkish  holy  days  from  tlie  luue  of  its  departure. 


DISPENSATIONS   OF   PROVIDENCE.  147 


do  you  speak  to  me  in  this  manner?"  "My  son!"  said 
the  woman ;  "  no,  in  good  troth  ;  neither  do  I  know  whose 
thou  art.  All  I  know  is  that  thou  wert  one  day  dis- 
covered in  a  cask,  and  that  tho  abbot  delivered  thee  to 
me  to  bring  up."  When  the  hoy  heard  this  he  burst  into 
tears,  ran  hastily  to  the  superior,  and  said,  "  Oh,  my 
lord,  I  havo  been  a  long  time  with  you,  and  I  believed 
that  I  was  the  fisherman's  son ;  hut  I  learn  that  it  is  not 
bo  :  consequently,  I  am  ignorant  who  my  parents  are.  If 
it  please  you,  my  lord,  sutler  me  to  become  a  soldier,  for  hen 
I  will  not  remain."  "  My  son,"  said  the  abbot,  "  think 
not  of  it.  The  monks  all  love  you,  and  I  doubt  not,  after 
my  decease,  will  promote  you  to  the  abbacy."  "  My  good 
lord,"  answered  Gregory,  "  I  know  not  my  parents,  and  1 
will  not  continue  longer  than  I  can  help  in  this  intoler- 
able suspense."  The  abbot,  finding  solicitation  useless, 
entered  the  treasury  and  hrought  to  him  the  tablets 
which  he  had  found  iu  the  cradle.  "My  son,"  he  said, 
"read  this;  and  what  you  are  will  be  clear  to  you." 
When  he  had  read,  he  fell  to  the  earth,  and  exclaimed, 
"  Alasl  are  such,  then,  my  parents?  I  will  hasten  to  the 
Holy  Land,  and  do  battle  for  the  sins  of  tho  unhappy 
authors  of  my  being;  and  there  I  will  end  my  life.  I 
entreat  yon,  therefore,  my  lord,  without  delay  to  make  Bie 
a  knight."  *  The  abbot  complied,  and  when  his  departure 
was  made  known,  the  whole  convent  and  neighbourhood 
were  loud  in  their  lamentation. 

Straightway  he  agreed  with  certain  sailors  for  his 
passage  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  embarked.     But  as  they 

*  The  power  of  tho  superior  of  a  convent  to  create  kniyhta  ia  a  well- 
known  fact  in  chivalry. 

Upon  a  pasBHjjo  in  the  romance  of  "Sir  Egltnnour  of  Artoys." 
Mr.  Ellia  hne  rernnrked  that  "The  author  in  ilii*  |'lu<'e  certainly 
appears  to  quote  the  Geela  Umim immm  fur  this  singularly  absurd 
«lory:  but  1  have  not  boon  able  to  discover  it  io  that  collection."— 
Eirijt  Biff,  Rim.,  vol.  iii.  p.  274.  The  story  which  Mr.  Ellis  could 
not  find  is  unquestionably  the  present.  In  the  romance,  a  child  and 
its  mother  are  deposited  in  a.  vessel,  and  left  to  lli-at  upon  the  waves. 
Here  some  variation  occurs,  hut  the  iiiiunt,  \n  in  the  i/ftt,  ia  conveyed 
to  a  place  of  safety,  and  received  under  tie-  pretention  of  a  king,  who 
is  hmiliag;  ho  educates,  and  finally  confers  Lhielithood  upon  him. 
The  youth  afterwards,  marries  his  lie  ther.  Further  than  this,  the  tales 
bavo  nothing  in  cnmuieu,  but  hern  is  enough  to  prove  imitation. 


148 


QESTA  EOMANORTJM. 


sailed  the  wind  became  contrary,  and  they  were  suddenly 
driven  upon  the  coast  of  that  country  in  whiuh  his 
mother's  castle  stood.  What  the  state  was,  and  wbo 
reigned  there,  the  sailors  knew  not ;  but  as  GregCrf 
entered  the  city  a  citizen  met  him,  and  said,  "  My  lord, 
whither  are  you  going?"  "To  seek  an  inn,"  was  the 
reply.  On  which  the  hospitable  citizen  led  him  to  hill 
own  house,  and  entertained  him  magnificently.  As  they 
sat  at  table  Gregory  inquired  of  his  host  what  state  it 
was,  and  who  was  the  lord  of  it.  "  Sir,"  returned  the 
other,  "  awhile  ago  we  had  a  very  powerful  emperor,  but 
he  died  in  the  Holy  Land,  and  left  his  throne  to  his  sister. 
The  Duke  of  Burgundy  would  have  married  her,  but 
she  was  pleased  to  refuse  his  offer.  Whereupon  he  la» 
forcibly  made  himself  master  of  the  whole  kingdom,  kivb 
a  single  city  in  which  the  queen  resides."  "May  I." 
returned  the  young  knight,  "declare  with  safety  thfl 
Becret  wish  of  my  heart  ?  " 

"  With  the  greatest  safety." 

"I  am,"  continued  the  other,  "  a  soldier.  If  it  pie»» 
you,  go  to-morrow  to  the  palace  and  obtain  for  me  a  com- 
munication with  the  seneschal,  and  if  he  will  promise  to 
remunerate  me,  I  will  fight  for  this  year  in  behalf  of  the 
lady."  "I  doubt  not,  my  lord,"  answered  the  citizen, 
"  hut  that  he  will  acquiesce  with  alacrity.  To-morrow  1 
will  do  as  you  desire."  He  went  accordingly,  and  declared 
the  occasion  of  his  coming.  The  seneschal,  not  a  little 
exhilarated,  immediately  sent  off  a  messenger  for  Gregory; 
and,  on  his  arrival,  presented  him  to  the  queen,  who 
expressed  herself  well  satisfied  with  her  champion.  She 
observed  him  closely,  but  had  not  the  remotest  enspioion 
that  it  was  her  son,  for  she  thought  him  long  since  over- 
whelmed in  the  waves.  The  seneschal  therefore,  in  the 
presence  of  his  mistress,  covenanted  that  he  should  eei" 
a  full  year.  On  the  morrow  he  prepared  for  war,  mw 
assembled  a  large  host.  So  judicious  were  his  movement! 
that  Gregory  triumphed  in  every  engagement,  and  peno- 
trated  to  the  very  palace  of  the  duke,  whom  he  finallj 
took  and  beheaded. 

Gregory  after  this  continued  the  war  from  day  to  daj 
with  constant  success ;  and  the  fame  of  hie  great  prowe» 


OF   THE   DISPENSATIONS    OF   PROVIDENCE.  149 

was  carried  to  all  parts  of  the  realm.  Thus,  before  the 
completion  of  the  year  which  he  hud  covenanted  to  serve, 
he  had  wrested  the  whole  kingdom  from  the  hands  of 
their  enemies.  Then  he  went  to  the  seneschal,  and  said, 
"  Good  friend,  you  know  in  what  state  I  found  your  affairs, 
and  in  what  a  good  condition  I  leave  them.  I.  therefore 
tieg  you  to  give  me  my  hire,  for  I  intend  to  proceed  to 
another  country."  "My  lord,"  said  the  seneschal,  "you 
have  merited  much  more  than  our  agreement  stipulated  ; 
lot  us  hasten  to  the  queen,  and  there  conclude  as  to  the 
recompense."  They  went  accordingly ;  and  the  seneschal 
thus  spoke  :  "  My  dear  lady,  I  would  say  something,  which 
will  he  to  your  advantage.  From  the  absence  of  a  head, 
we  have  sustained  many  grievous  afflictions.  It  were  de- 
sirable, therefore,  for  you  to  take  a  husband,  who  is  able 
to  defend  us  from  a  return  of  the  like  troubles.  Your  king- 
dom is  rich  enough,  ao  that  I  would  not  advise  you  to 
select  a  spouse  for  his  wealth.  And  this  being  allowed, 
I  know  not  where  you.  could  find  one  in  every  respect  so 
suitable  and  beneficial  to  the  state  as  my  lord  Gregory." 
The  lady,  as  we  have  seen  before,  rejected  a  second 
marriage ;  but  overcome  by  the  arguments  and  urgency 
of  her  seneschal,  appointed  a  day  on  winch,  after  mature 
deliberation,  she  would  give  an  answer.  That  day  came  ; 
and  in  the  presence  of  all  the  assembled  nobles,  she  arose 
and  spoke  thus  :  "  Since  my  lord  Gregory  has  valiantly 
and  effectually  liberated  both  us  and  our  kingdom  from 
ihe  thraldom  of  oppressive  foes,  I  will  receive  him  for  my 
husband."  The  audience  rejoiced :  and  an  early  period 
was  fixed  for  the  celebration  of  their  nuptials.  They 
were  then  espoused  with  the  approbation  of  the  whole 
country — the  sou  to  his  own  mother :  but  both  were 
ignorant  of  the  relationship.  They  loved  each  other 
tenderly:  it  happened,  however,  that  the  lord  Gregory 
on  one  particular  occasion  went  out  to  hunt ;  and  a  hand- 
maid of  the  queen  said  to  her,  "  Dear  lady,  have  you  not 
offended  my  lord  in  something?"  "Surely  not,"  returned 
Bhe.  "I  bolieve  that  there  is  not  in  the  whole  world  a 
married  pair  bo  mutually  attached  to  each  other  as  we 
are.  But  why  do  you  ask  ? "  "  Because,"  said  the  hand- 
"  every  day,  when  the  table  is  laid,  my  lord  enter* 


I 


150  QESTA   RCIMAXOROM. 

his  private  chamber  in  great  apparent  pleasure  ;  but  whe: 
he  returns  it  ia  with  lttnie-jitiition  and  wailing.  After  tb» 
he  washes  his  face ;  but  why  all  this  is  done,  I  do  nui 
loniprehend." 

On  hearing  thia,  the  lady  immediately  entered  thi 
private  chamber  be  ions  alluded  U>.  and  narrowly  inspei'tcl 
every  closet  and  crevice.  At  length,  she  came  to  the 
place  wherein  the  tablets,  inscribed  with  the  ignominy/ i>i 
his  birth,  and  which  ho  waa  wont  to  read  day  by  dsr. 
were  deposited;  and  then  she  wept  most  piteously.  For 
they  were  the  same  which  she  had  laid  in  the  cradle;  and 
which,  when  they  now  atarted  up  before  her,  as  it  weft», 
hy  magic,  she  remembered  too  well.  She  opened  then. 
ami  recognized  her  own  handwriting.  "  Alas ! "  »lw 
exclaimed,  "how  has  he  obtained  this  dark  testimony  ef 
my  crime,  if  he  be  not  my  son  ?"  And  then  bunting  irt 
a  lamentable  cry,  "Woe  ia  me,  that  I  ever  saw  tin'  tntf 
of  heaven — would  that  I  had  died  ere  I  was  born."  Tb« 
Holdiers  in  the  hall,  hearing  the  clamour  produced  by  (lie 
anguish  and  perturbation  of  her  mind,  ran  into  tin 
chamber,  and  found  her  stretched  upon  the  earth.  ThCT 
stood  around  her  a  considerable  time  before  she  was  abl' 
to  ejaculate,  and  when  at  length  she  could  s;seak,  she  said. 
"  If  ye  desire  me  to  live,  hasten  immediately  for  my  lord. 
The  spectators  hearing  her  wish,  mounted  their  hornes, 
and  rode  to  the  king.  They  explained  to  him  the  iw- 
minent  danger  of  his  wife ;  and  he  forthwith  left  'h" 
unase,  returned  to  the  castle,  and  entered  the  ehunil"'r 
where  the  queen  lay.  When  she  saw  him,  she  said,  "Of1- 
iny  lord,  command  us  to  be  left  alone;  what  I  h»W  ''' 
say  is  for  your  private  ear."  The  room  was  accordingly 
cleared;  and  the  lady  enprly  besought  him  to  saj  i'f 
what  family  he  was.  "  That  is  a  singular  question, 
replied  he,  "but  know  that  I  am  a  native  of  a  diM*"1 
country."  "  Oh,"  returned  the  lady,  "  I  solemnly  ve«  '" 
liod  that,  unless  you  declare  to  mo  the  whole  truth,  I'm 
sure  I  shall  quickly  die."  "  I  tell  you,"  he  said,  "  I  *** 
poor — possessed  of  nothing  but  the  arms  with  which  I  ft**1,, 
you  and  the  kingdom  from  slavery."  "  Only  tell  Pc- 
urged  the  lady,  "  from  what  country  you  came,  and  «h< 
are  your  parents;  and  unless  you  apeak  truly,  I  will  ne** 


OF   THE    DISPENSATIONS   OF   PROVIDENCE.  151 

more  touch  food."  "  Yon  shall  be  satisfied,"  said  tha 
king.  "  I  was  brought  up  by  an  abbot  from  my  ear 
ago ;  and  from  him  I  learnt  that  I  was  found  cradle 
a  cask."  Here  the  queen  showed  him  the  tablets, 
said,  "Dost  thou  remember  these?"  He  looked,  and  fell 
prostrate  on  the  earth.  "  My  «on  /  "  cried  she,  "  for  th 
art  bo;  my  only  son,  and  my  husband,  and  my  lor 
Thou  art  the  child  of  my  brother  and  myself.  Oh,  my 
son,  I  deposited  in  the  cask  with  thee  these  tablets.  Woe 
is  me !  why,  0  God,  didst  thou  permit  my  birth,  since 
I  was  born  to  bo  guilty  of  so  much  wickedness  !  Would 
that  the  eye  which  looks  upon  mo  might  reduce  ine  to 
ashes ;  would  that  I  had  passed  from  the  womb  to  the 
grave!"  Then  striking  her  head  against  the  wall,  she 
cried,  "  Oh,  thou  Almighty  Being,  behold  my  son — my 
husband,  anil  the  son  of  my  brother.'"  "  I  thought," 
replied  Gregory,  "  to  shun  this  danger,  and  I  have  fallen 
into  the  snares  of  the  devil.  Dismiss  me,  lady,  to  bewail 
my  misery :  woe !  woe  I  my  mother  is  my  mistress — my 
wife  1  See  how  Satan  hath  encompassed  me  !  "  When 
thft  mother  perceived  the  agony  of  her  child,  she  said, 
"  Dear  son,  for  the  residue  of  my  life,  I  will  expiate  our 
crimes  by  hardships  and  wanderings.  Thou  shalt  govern 
the  kingdom."  "  Not  bo,"  returned  he  ;  "  do  you  remain, 
my  mother :  you  are  wanted  to  rule  the  realm.  I  will 
roam  about,  until  our  sins  are  forgiven." 

The  same  night  he  arose,  broke  his  lance,  and  put  on 
the  dress  of  a  pilgrim.  Ho  bade  hia  mother  farewell,  and, 
with  naked  feet,  walked  till  he  reached  the  uttermost 
boundaries  of  the  kingdom.  Having  entered  a  oertain 
city,  he  sought  out  the  house  of  a  fisherman,  with  whom 
he  requested  permission  to  lodge.  When  the  fisherman 
had  considered  him  attentively,  and  observed  the  come- 
liness of  his  person,  and  the  grace  of  his  form,  he  said, 
"  Friend,  you  are  no  true  pilgrim  ;  this  is  evident  from 
the  elegance  of  your  body."  "  Well,"  answered  the  other, 
"  though  I  be  not  a  tnio  pilgrim,  yet,  for  the  love  of  God, 
I  beseech  you  to  give  me  harbourage."  Now,  the  fisher- 
man's wife,  looking  upon  hira,  was  moved  with  a  devout 
feeling,  and  entreated  that  he  might  be  sheltered.  He 
entered    therefore;  but  directed  his  bed  to  be  made  for 


152 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


liim  at  the  gate.  Fish,  with  water  and  bread,  were  given  tc 
Mm.  Amongst  other  things,  the  fisherman  said  "Pilgrim, 
if  von  would  become  holy,  go  into  some  remote  place." 
■-  Sir."  answered  Gregory,  "  I  would  willingly  follow  your 
advice,  bnt  I  know  of  no  such  place."  "  On  the  morrow," 
returned  he,  "I  will  myself  conduct  you."  "May  God 
reward  you,"  naid  the  pilgrim.  The  next  morning  the 
fisherman  bade  him  rise,  and  hurried  him  so  much  that  he 
left  his  tablets  behind  (lie  gate  where  h 


,  embarked   upon 

;  came  to  a  huge 

vithout  a  key, 


The   fisherman,  with   his   companio 
the  sea,  and  sailing  about  sixteen  mill 
rock,  having  chains  at  its   feet,  whic 
could  not  be  unloosed.     After  the  fisherman  Lad  undone 
them,  he  cast  the  keys  into  the  sea,  and  returned  home. 
Tlit:  pilgrim  remained  in  that  place  seventee 
every  feeling  of  the  most  perfect  penitence. 

About  this  period  the  pope  died  ;  and  at  the  moment 
of  his  decease,  a  voice  from  heaven  cried  out,"  Search 
after  a  man  of  God,  culled  Gregory,  and  appoint  him  my 
vicar."  The  (.lectors,  greatly  rejoiced  at  what  they  heard, 
eeut  messengers  into  different  parts  of  the  world  to  seek 
him.  At  length,  some  of  them  lodged  in  the  house  of  the 
fisherman ;  and  as  they  sat  at  Buppor,  one  said,  "  My 
friend,  we  are  much  harassed  by  journeys  through  town 
aud  country,  in  pursuit  of  a  holy  man,  called  Gregory, 
whom,  when  we  find,  we  are  to  place  in  the  pontificate." 
The  fisherman,  then  recollecting  the  pilgrim,  answered, 
"It  is  now  seventeen  years  since  u  pilgrim  named  Gregory 
lodged  in  this  house.  I  conducted  him  to  a  cortain  rock 
in  the  midst  of  the  sea,  and  there  I  left  him.  But  it  is  so 
long  ago,  that  he  may  be  dead."  It  happened  that  on  the 
same  day,  a  number  of  fishes  were  caught ;  and  as  lie 
gutted  one  of  them,  he  found  the  keys  which  seventeen 
years  before  he  had  cast  into  the  sea."  Immediately  he 
shouted,  "  Oh,  my  friends,  behold  these  keys !  I  cast 
them  into  the  sea;  and  I  draw  from,  this  circumstanco 

*  Thia  incident  is  purely  oriental :  and  occurs  frequently  hotli  in 
the  Arabian  Xi>jhW  EnU-rUi! :m,i,lf.  mid  in  the  l'i-riian  Tulet. 

[Though  «'hut  Mr.  Swan  fail  in  this  note  is  probably  true,  it  is 
w'frtll  unite  to  remind  ttie  reader  nl'  the  iV<;\  of  Pelycrates  of  Samua 
■nil  the  ring.    But  that  story  may  be  of  Eastern  origin. — Ed.} 


OF   THE   DISPENSATIONS   OF   PROVIDENCE. 


153 


i  respecting  the  success  of  your  labours."  The 
were  much  pleased  with  the  man's  prognosti- 
cation, and  early  in  the  morning  desired  him  to  bring 
ihem  to  the  rock.  He  did  so ;  and  there  finding  Gregory. 
ihi'j  said,  "  Man  of  God,  go  up  with  us  ;  by  the  command 
of  the  Omnipotent,  go  up  with  us  :  for  it  is  His  will  that 
tboii  shouldst  be  appointed  His  vicar  upon  earth."  To 
which  Gregory  replied,  "  God's  will  bo  done;"  and  then 
followed  them  from  the  rock.  As  soon  as  he  approached  the 
city,  the  bells  Tang  of  their  own  accord,  which  the  citizens 
hearing,  said,  "  Blessed  he  the  Most  High,  he  oometh 
who  shall  be  Christ's  vicar,"  ami  hastened  tc>  meet  him. 
St.  Gregory,  thus  appointed,  conducted  himself  worthily 
in  every  respect;  and  multitudes  from  every  part  of  the 
world  came  to  ask  his  counsel  and  assistance.  Mow,  his 
mother,  hearing  of  the  remarkable  .sanctity  <>!'  the  reigning 
pope,  thought  that  nowhere  could  she  lind  help  sooner 
than,  from  so  holy  a  man.  But  that  he  was  her  son  and 
liusband  she  knew  not.  Hastening,  therefore,  to  Borne, 
she  confessed  herself  to  the  vicar  of  God  ;  nor  was  it  till 
after  confession  that  the  pope  recollected  his  unhappy 
mother.  He  then  spoke  thus  :  •' Dearest  mother,  and  wife, 
and  mistress,  the  devil  dreamt  of  bringing  us  to  hell  ; 
Irat,  by  the  grace  of  God,  we  have  evaded  his  toils."  At 
these  words,  sho  fell  at  his  feet ;  and  even  for  very  joy, 
wept  bitterly.  But,  the  pope  raised  her  up,  and  tenderly 
femhraced  her.  He  founded  a  monastery  over  which  ho 
ttada  her  abbess,  and  a  short  time  afterwards,  both  yielded 
up  their  souls  to  God. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ,  who  gave  His 
daughter,  that  is,  the  human  soul,  to  the  charge  of  the 
brother,  that  is,  the  flesh.  They  lay  in  one  chamber,  that 
ia,  in  one  heart,  or  in  one  mind.  The  son  born  of  these 
1«  all  mankind.  The  cask  is  the  1  loly  Spirit,  which 
Moats  upon  the  sea  of  the  world.  The  Duke  of  Burgundy 
*8  the  devil,  who  invades  tlio  soul,  exposed  by  sin,  and 
«onquers  it ;  until  the  Son,  that  is  Christ,  who  is  God  and 

n,  enfranchises  it,  and  marries  the  mother,  that  i 


APPLICATION. 


154 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


■ 


■oul.      The    tablets    are    the    ten    comm  iin  dm  en  ts. 
abbot  is  God,  who  saved  us  by  His  only-begottei 
The  fisherman-nurse  is  any  prelate  ;  the  ship  St.  Gregory 
afterwards  embarks  in  ia  the  Church.     The  seneschal  is 
a  confessor.     The  broken  lance  is  to  put  away  or  destroy 
an  evil  life.     The  rock  '    - 

i 

° 


TALE   LXXXII. 

OF    JUDGMENT   AGAINST   ADULTERERS.* 


The 


istroy 


A  certain  knight  had  a  very  beautiful  castle,  upon  which 
two  storks  built  their  nest.  At  the  foot  of  this  castle 
a  a  clear  fountain,  in  whieh  the  storks  were  wont  to 
bathe  themselves.  It  happened  that  the  female  stork 
iiruugLt  I'uvth  j-ijhiiit,  and  the  male  flew  about  to  procure 
food.  Now,  while  he  was  absent,  the  female  admitted  a 
gallant ;  and  before  the  return  of  the  male  went  down  to 
the  fountain  to  wash  herself,  in  order  that  the  other  might 
perceive  no  disorder  in  her  appearance.  But  the  knight, 
often  observing  this  with  wonder,  olosed  up  the  fountain, 
that  the  stork  might  no  longer  wash  or  bathe  herself.  In 
this  dilemma,  after  meeting  her  lover,  she  was  obliged  to 
return  to  her  nest ;  and  when  the  male  came  and  saw  by 
various  signs  that  she  hud  been  it n faithful,  he  flew  away, 
and  brought  back  with  him  a  great  multitude  of  storks, 
who  put  the  adulterous  bird  to  death,  in  presence  of  the 
knight. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  two  storks  are  Christ  and  the  soul, 
the  spouse  of  Christ.     The  knight  is  the  devil ;  and  the 

*  "ThoSTORKE  vreker  of  advouterie"  [adultery].  Chadobe,  The 
Awrnhli'-  of  F,„rl,:s,  [<>],  235. 

"  This  bird,"  save  Gpefht  (Gloss,  in  v.),  "  breedeth  in  the  qhtmney- 
tops  of  houses,  and  as  it  is  written  of  liim,  if  tho  man  or  the  wife 
riinimit  inliillcry.  lit  [ir.-HL'iitly  iorsiLktth  the  place.  And  as  Aristotle 
ciiitli.  if  liin  lViiial«  piny  l'iil:.i',  ha  will,  if  he  can,  kill  her:  or  else 
""terly  forsake  her.  Tharefore,  Chauoai  calletb  him  the  wreker  of 
utoj." 


OF  THE  TIMOROUS  GUARDIANSHIP  OF  THE  SOUL.     155 

fountain,  that  of  confession  and  repentance.  If  Christ  at 
the  day  of  judgment  find  us  unwashed,  i.e.  impenitent,  He 
*'ili  come  with  a  multitude  of  angels  and  put  us  to  death. 


TALE   LXXXIII. 

OF  THE   TIMOROUS   GUARDIANSHIP    OF   THE    SOUL. 

When  Trajan  reigned  he  took  great  pleasure  in  gardeni__ 
Tlaving  constructed  one  of  uncommon  beauty,  and  planted 
in  it  trees  of  every  kind,  he  appointed  a  keeper  with  in- 
junctions to  defend  it  fnithfully.  But  by  and  by  a  wild 
hoar  broke  into  the  garden,  overturned  the  young  trees, 
*ud  rooted  up  the  flowers.  The  keeper,  whose  name  was 
Jonathan,  perceiving  this,  cut  off  the  boar's  left  ear,  and 
the  animal  with  a  loud  noise  departed.  But  another  day, 
the  same  boar  re-entered  the  garden  and  committed  great 
depredations;  upon  which  Jonathan  cut  off  his  right  ear. 
But  notwithstanding  this,  he  entered  a  third  time;  and 
the  keeper,  on  seeing  this,  cut  off  his  tail— with  which 
ignominious  loss  he  departed,  as  formerly,  making  ;l 
ti"emendous  uproar.  However,  he  appeared  on  a  fourth 
occasion,  and  committed  the  like  injuries;  when  Jonathan, 
rtiore  and  more  incenwd,  caught  up  a  lance  and  transfixed 
him  upon  the  spot.  He  was  then  tent  to  the  royal  kitchen 
»*id  prepared  for  the  king's  table.  New  Trajan,  it  seems, 
"**"««  especially  partial  to  the  heart  of  any  animal ;  and  tho 
cook  observing  that  tho  boar's  heart  was  particularly  fat 
a<id  delicate,  reserved  it  for  his  own  tooth.  When,  there- 
f*>W,  the  emperor's  dinner  was  served  up,  the  heart  was 
**»quired  after;  and  the  servants  returned  to  the  cook. 
**  Tel!  my  lord,"  said  tho  fellow,  "  that  it  had  no  heart ; 
aTxd  if  he  disbelieves  it,  say  that  1  will  adduce  convincing 
reasons  for  the  defect."  The  servants  delivered  the  cook's 
message,  and  the  astonished  emperor  exclaimed,  "What 
^**  I  hear  ?  There  is  no  animal  without  a  heart !  But 
B*r*ce  he  offers  to  prove  his  assertion  we  will  hear  him." 
The  cook  was  sent  for,  and  spoke  thus,  "  My  lord,  listen 


156 


QESTA   ROMAXORUM. 


to  me.     All  thought  proceeds  from  the  heart.     It  folloim, 
therefore,  that  if  there  bo  no  thought,  there  is  no  heart. 
The   boar,  in    the  first   instance,  entered  the  garden  an-i 
committed  much  injury.     I  *  seeing  it,  cut  off  his  left  e»>i' 
Now,  if  he  had  possessed  a  heart,  he  would  have  recolleo&-*k 
the  loss  of  so  important  a  member.     But  he  did  not,  ^IVii 
he   entered   a  second  time.     Therefore,  he  had  no  In  n      ^^ 
Besides,  if  ho  had  had  a  heart,  when  I  had  out  off  KT  b1* 
right  ear,  he  would  have  meditated  on  the  matter;  whiter  _ieh 
he  did  not,  for  ho  came  again  and  lost  his  tail.     Moreov — ^^wer, 
having  lost  his  ears  and  his  tail,  had  he  possessed  ev*.^-  ven 
ii  particle  of  heart,  he  would  have  thought ;  but  he  e»      did 
not  think,  for  he  entered  a  fourth  time  and  was  kill» -tied. 
For  these  several  reasons  I  am  confident  that  he  had  t"> 

heart."      Tho  emperor,  satisfied  with  what  he  heard,  ek-       ap- 
plauded the  man's  judgment.     And  thus  he  escaped. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ,  who  delights  ln 

fair  gardens  ;  that  is,  in  religious  men,  in  whom  our  Loc^^11^ 
planted  many  virtues.  The  keeper  is  a  prelate  ;  the  bc^*** 
is  any  winMly-mhi'led  man  who  sins,  and  is  punish^»*-10* 
for  his  transgressions.  The  abscission  of  the  left  ess^" 
represents  the  decease  of  a  beloved  relation  ;  the  right,  ^ 

a  son  or  daughter ;  and  the  tail,  of  a  wife.  At  last  Dea»"  th, 
that  is  Jonathan,  Iranslixes  tins  sinner  himself.  The  hei^"^*"1 
here  emblems  tho  soul,  which  never  would  bavo  tran^7-*1"" 
greased  had  it  retained  its  reason. 


TALE     LXXXIV. 

OP  god's  benefits. 

In  the   reign   of  Pompey  there  lived  a   fair 

lady ;  and  near  to  her  residence  dwelt  a  handsome 

noble  knight.     He  was  in  tho  habit  of  visiting  her 

11  con fw> km  between  the  keeper  and  the  oook. 


of  god's  benefits.  157 

quently,  and  was  much  beloved  by  her.  The  knight  coming 
once  to  see  her,  observed  a  falcon  upon  her  wriat,  which 
be  greatly  admired.  "  Dear  lady,"  said  be,  "  if  you  love 
me,  give  me  that  beautiful  bird."  "  I  consent,"  returned 
she,  "  but  on  one  condition  :  that  you  do  not  attach  your- 
self so  much  to  it  as  to  rob  me  of  your  society."  "  Far  be 
such  ingratitude  from  your  servant,"  cried  the  knight ; 
"  I  would  not  forsake  you  on  whatever  emergency.  And 
believe  me,  this  geiiorooily  binds  me  more  than  ever  to 
love  you."  The  lady  presented  the  falcon  to  him;  and 
bidding  her  farewell,  he  returned  to  his  own  castle.  But 
he  derived  bo  much  satisfaction  from  the  bird,  that  he 
forgot  his  promise  to  the  lady.  Mid  thought  but  little  of 
her,  while  every  day  be  sported  with  the  falcon.  She  W  ' 
messengers  to  him,  but  it  waH  of  no  use;  he  came  not: 
and  at  last  she  wrote  a  very  urgent  letter  entreating  him, 
without  the  least  delay,  to  hasten  to  her  and  bring  the 
falcon  along  with  him.  He  acquiesced ;  and  the  lady,  alter 
salutation,  requested  him  to  let  her  touch  the  bird, 
sooner  was  it  in  her  possession,  than  she  wrenched  its 
head  from  the  body.  "  Madam,"  said  the  knight,  not  a 
little  grieved,  "  what  have  you  done  ?  "  To  which  the 
lady  answered,  "  Be  not  offended,  but  rather  rejoice  at 
what  I  have  done.  That  falcon  was  the  occasion  of  your 
absence,  and  1  killed  him  that  I  might  enjoy  your 
my  aa  I  was  wont."  The  knight,  satisfied  with  the 
i,  became  once  more  a  regular  visitant. 


. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  heavenly  Father ;  ; 
[y,  our  human  nature  joined  to  the  divinity  in  Christ. 
The  knight  hi  any  Christian,  and  the  falcon  temporal 
prosperity. 


GESTA   ROMANORUJL 


TALE   LXXXV. 

OF  PRAYER,  WHICH   IS  AS  HARMONY  BEFORE  GO*^' 

■When  Tiberius  reigned  he  -was  passionately  fond  of  mi^*-svC' 
It  happened  that,  as  he  once  pursued  the  chase,  he  -     rr'* 
struck  with  the  sound   of  a  harp,   whose  sweetness 
delighted  him,  that  he  turned  his  horse's  head  and  rode^^ 
the  place  from  which  it  issued.     When  he  arrived  tb^^^1^' 
he  perceived  a  broad  sheet  of  water,  and  near  it  a  cerfc^^1^1]? 
poor  man  seated  on  the  ground,  having  a  harp  in  his  ha  — * 
From   hence  arose  the   melody ;   and  the   emperor  v^^^*8 
refreshed  and  exhilarated  by  the  delicious  tones  the  h^*-    "i1 
gave  forth.     "  My  friend."  wild  the  king,  "  inform  me  h—^*1'* 

it  is  that  your  harp  sounds   so  sweetly."      "My  lor- ' 

answered  the  other,  "  for  more  than  thirty  years  I  hi^^*™ 
sat  by  this  stream,  and  God  has  bestowed  upon  me  sic^— "^ 
grace,  that  the  moment  I  touch  the  chords  of  my  har  — T' 
the  very  fishes,  enchanted  with  the  harmony,  come  er"*6" 
into  my  hand,  and  afford  sustenance  to  my  wife  a. — — nd 
family.  But,  unhappily  for  me,  a  certain  whistler  l^^*1" 
arrived  within  these  few  days  from  another  country;  a^^131^ 
he  whistles  bo  admirably,  that  the  fishes  forsake  me  a^^ 
go  over  to  him.  Therefore,  my  lord,  since  you  a 
ful,  and  tho  ruler  of  this  kingdom,  give  me  some  i 
against  this  abominable  whistler."  "  My  friend,"  return  -*•* 
the  king,  "  I  can  help  you  only  in  one  thing;  but  I  ho^.  P6 
this  will  be  enough.  I  have  in  my  hunting-bag  a  gold^^^j1 
hook,  which  I  will  give  you  :  fasten  it  on  the  top  of  a  ro^^ 
and  then  strike  your  harp.  Tho  sound  will  inveigle  t* — j"-' 
fishes,  and  as  soon  as  they  approach,  by  the  moans  of*^^?* 
hook  draw  them  to  land.  If  you  follow  my  advice,  tB^"^' 
whistler  will  dopart  in  great  trouble."  Tho  poor  man  d  — - * 
as  be  was  directed  ;  and  before  the  fishes  could  arrive  fll 

the  place  whoro  tho  whistler  was  stationed,  the  hoc^— '* 
brought  them  to  land.  The  whistler,  perceiving  hinise^^3 
outdone,  retired  in  much  tribulation.* 


OF   SINNEB& 


,  My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ ;  the  harmony  which 
'«ignis  him  is  prayer.  The  water  is  the  world ;  the 
**ies  an  shuum.     The  poor  man  is  a  preacher;  and  the 

***])  is  the-  Sacred  Writings.     The  whistler  ia  the  deril ; 

*°d  the  golden  hook  is  divine  grace. 


TALE   LXXXVI. 


A  certain  emperor  made  a  law  by  which,  if  any  ■» 
w^re  taken  in  adultery,  she  should  be  condemned  to  per- 
petual imprisonment.  It  happened  that  a  knight  espoused 
*  noble  lady,  to  whom  he  was  greatly  attached.  The 
«night  having  been  called  by  some  emergency  into 
foreign  parts,  his  wife  fell  under  the  sentence  of  the 
law.  She  was  accordingly  cast  into  a  dungeon,  and  there 
brought  forth  a  remarkably  handsome  hoy.  The  child 
grew,  and  was  beloved  by  all  who  saw  him.  Bnt  the 
mother  consumed  her  hours  in  groans  and  tears,  nor 
experienced  the  smallest  comfort.  The  boy,  observing 
■the  continual  lamentation  of  his  mother,  said  Ui  her,  "  For 
■What  reason,  dearest  mother,  do  you  afflict  yourself  in  thta 
Bianner  ?  "  "  Oh,  my  son  ! "  returned  she,  "  I  have  much 
'eason  to  weep.  Above  our  heads  is  an  intercourse  with 
Ttiankind;  and  there  the  sun  shines  in  his  «plendour. 
ttere  we  are  kept  in  utter  darkness,  and  light  titvi-r 
Messes  our  sight."  "  I  am  ignorant  of  all  this,"  said  the 
boy,  "  because  I  was  born  in  prison.  As  long  as  I  receive 
a  sufficiency  of  meat  and  drink,  I  shall  willingly  remain 
here."  As  they  thus  conversed,  the  emperor  and  his 
guards  were  standing  near  the  door  of  the  prison.  One 
of  them  solicited  his  sovereign  to  liberate  the  mother  and 
eon;  and  he,  compassionating  their  distress,  and  in  con- 
sideration of  the  entreaties  of  his  attendant*,  set  them  at 
liberty,  and  absolved  them  from  future  ponislimettt. 


GESTA   ROMANORUM 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  heavenly  Father,  the 
wife  is  the  soul,  and  the  husband  ib  Christ.  The  prison 
is  hell;  the  child  is  the  powerful  and  wealthy  of  the 
world,  who  are  satisfied  with  sensual  delights.  The 
intercessor  is  any  good  prelate. 


TALE  LSXXVIL 


As  emperor,  engaged  in  mortal  war,  was  in  imminent 
peril  of  death.  A  zealous  knight,  perceiving  his  danger, 
placed  himself  between  the  emperor  and  his  enemies,  and 
thus  saved  him  from  destruction.  But  in  the  attempt 
the  knight  was  grievously  wounded,  and  not  until  after 
a  tedious  and  dangerous  illness,  healed.  The  scars,  how- 
ever, remained,  and  gave  occasion  to  many  commendations 
upon  the  valour  and  loyalty  which  he  bad  exhibited.  It 
happened  that  the  same  knight  was  in  danger  of  being 
defrauded  of  his  inheritance.  He  went,  therefore,  to  the 
emperor,  and  entreated  that  ho  would  assist  him  and  give 
sentence  in  his  favour.  "  My  good  friend,"  replied  the 
emperor,  "I  cannot  attend  to  you  at  present;  but  I  will 
appoint  a  judge  who  shall  examine  into  your  case,  and  do 
you  every  justice."  "  My  lord,"  cried  the  other,  "  how 
can  you  say  so?"  And  immediately  tearing  open  Jus 
vesture,  he  exposed  tho  scars  left  by  his  wounds.  "  See 
what  I  have  borne  for  you — yet  you  will  neither  vindicate 
!  Is  it  not  unjust  that,  after  I  have  under- 
gone so  much,  another  should  bo  deputed  to  judge  and 
advocate  my  cause  ? "  The  emperor,  hearing  this,  in- 
stantly replied,  "  My  friend,  you  say  true ;  when  I  was  in 
peril  you,  and  not  another,  preserved  me."  Then,  ascend- 
ing the  tribunal,  bo  gave  judgment  in  his  favour." 


OF  THE  TRIPLE  STATE  OF  THE  WORLD.  161 

APPLICATION, 

My  beloved,  the  kniglit  ia  Christ,  who  received  many 
*ounda  in  our  behalf.  Lot  us  not  depute  another  to  show 
oar  gratitude,  but  exert  ourselves  in  the  moat  earnest 
manner. 


TALE  LXXXVIII. 

OF  THE  CONNINO  OF  THE  DEVIL. 

F  It  is  related  of  a  certain  prince  that,  with  all  his  power, 
Qe  could  not  subdue  his  enemies.  At  length  he  made  use 
of  the  following  stratagem.  Ho  feigned  a  flight,  and 
*Xaigned  his  castles,  with  the  provisions  they  contained. 
Into  the  hands  of  his  foes.  Now,  the  castles  were  furnished 
"*ith  casks  of  wiiio  empoisoned  with  the  seed  of  a  certain 
iierb;  insomuch  that  whosoever  drank  of  it  immediately 
fcll  asleep.  He  knew  that  his  opponents  were  hunger- 
starved  aud  gluttonous ;  and  that,  overjoyed  to  find  suoh 
^rcellent  quarters,  they  would  drink  to  excess,  and  fall 
iaito  a  death-like  sleep.  They  did  so,  aud  the  prince 
*"*-'tuming  put  them  all  to  death. 


My  beloved,  the  prince  is  the  devil :  lot  ua  beware  of 
"hit  he  leaves. 


TALE  LXXXIX. 

OF  THE  TRIPLE  STATE  OF  THE  WORLD. 

)  knight  had  three  sons,  and  on  his  death-bed  ha 

eathed  the  inheritance  to  his  first-born ;  to  the  second. 

Jeasury ;  and  to  the  third,  a  very  valuable  ring,  of 

'acre  worth  indeed  than  all  he  had  left  to  the  others 


« 


L62 


GESTA    ROMASOEUM. 


But  the  two  former  had  also  rings ;  and  they  were  al 
apparently  the  siwe,  After  their  father's  death  the  firr 
«m  said,  "I  possess  that  precious  ring  of  my  father." 
The  second  said,  "You  have  it  not— 1  have,"  To  thi. 
the  third  boh  answered.  "  That  is  not  true.  The  eldei 
of  us  hath  the  estate,  the  second  the  treasure,  and  there- 
fore it  is  but  meet  that  I  should  have  the  most  valuable 
ring."  The  first  son  answered,  "  Let  us  prove,  then, 
wliuse  claims  to  it  have  the  pre-eminence."  They  agiw!, 
and  several  Biek  men  wore  made  to  resort  to  them  for  the 
purpose.  The  two  first  rings  had  no  effect,  but  the  last 
cured  all  their  infirmities.* 


My  beloved,  the  knight  is  Christ :  the  three  soni  Ms 
the  Jews,  Saracens,  and  Christians.  The  most  valuable 
ring  iw  faith,  which  is  the  property  only  of  the  younger; 
that  is,  of  the  Christians. 

*  This  story  is  in  the  Decameron,  first  day,  Nov.  3,  with  »oW 
considerable  variations. 

"  There  was  a  very  wealthy  man  who,  among  other  precious  jtteli 

of  his  own,  had  a  goodly  ring  of  great  value :  tin;  beauty  and  estima- 
tion whereof  made  him  earnestly  desirous  to  leave  it  as  a  perpahul 
memory  and  honour  to  his  successors.  Wherenpon,  he  willed  >aJ 
i'rdiiiin'ti  that  lie  among  his  male  children  with  whom  this  rinj 
(being  left  by  llu-  father)  =  1 1  ■  hi  1 . 1  be  found  in  en -truly  after  hie  death. 
he,  and  none  other,  wan  to  he  reputed  his  heir,  and  to  be  honoured  irjj 
reverenced  by  :ill  the  rest,  us  bi  in.Lr  tin;  [irime  and  worthiest  person- 

In  process  of  lime  the  ring  fell  to  one  who  had  three  bios,»™ 
doubtful  who  should  have  it.  he  canned  two  other  rings  to  be  WO- 
struel.cd  exactly  similar.  "  Lying  upon  his  death-bed,  and  bis  I™1 
then  plyiiijr  him  by  I  heir  host  nj.]>,  .rt  unities,  he  gave  to  eaeli  of  LlifB 
a  ring.  And  they  (after  his  death),  presuming  severally  upon  ll"'' 
right  to  the  inheritance  and  honour,  grew  to  great  contradiction  a"» 
square;  each  man  producing  (heu  his  ring,  whi.-h  were  so  truly  w 
alike  in  resemblance,  as  no  one  could  know  the  right  ricg  from"" 
other."  "  In  like  manner,  my  very  good  lord,  concerning  those  tb"* 
lawn  given  by  find  the  Father,  to  threti  such  people  as  yon  b&™ 
propounded"  (tin-  Jews.  Saracens,  ami  Christian*),  "each  of  tbi"'0 
do  imagine  that  (hoy  have  the  heritage  r,f  God.  and  bis  true  law,»*' 
also  duly  perf  inn  Li.,  commandments,  but  which  of  them  do  ao,  inii*** 
ibe  ' | nesl i m  (as  of  tlie  three  rim.;.-.)  is  yet  remaining." 

It  also  occurs  in  the  O-nl,,  .Y..cJ/."  Anlidie.  Nov.  71,  and  pert»»' 
in  Swift's  Tale  of  a  Tub.    Tyrwhitt.  however,  thinks  otherwise. 


OF    FBEE    WILL. 

There  was  formerly  a  king,  in  whose  reign  a  law  was 
enacted  that  the  elder  brother  should  divide  the  inherit- 
ance, and  then  that  the  younger  should  have  the  choice; 
the  reason  of  which  was  that  they  considered  it  a  greater 
proof  of  discretion  to  apportion  than  to  select,  and  the 
elder  ought  to  be  the  wiser.  There  was  also  another  law, 
which  permitted  a  son  by  a  slavo  woman  to  receive  an 
inheritance  as  well  as  the  lawfully  begotten  sons.  Now, 
there  were  two  brothers,  the  one  born  of  a  handmaid,  and 
the  other  of  a  free  woman,  between  whom  an  estate  was 
to  be  divided.  The  elder,  therefore,  divided  it  in  this 
manner.  On  one  side  he  placed  the  whole  inheritance, 
and  on  the  other  his  brother's  mother.  The  latter  reflected 
that  he  ought  to  love  his  parent  beyond  all  else  ;  and  ci 
sequently  chose  her,  trusting  to  the  kindness  and  liberality 
of  his  brother.  But  here  he  was  deceived ;  for  he  would 
supply  him  with  nothing.  Upon  which  he  hastened  to 
the  judge,  and  complained  that  his  brother  had  excluded 
him  from  his  inheritance.  The  brother  made  answer  that 
the  matter  rested  not  with  him,  since  he  who  chose,  not 
he  who  divides,  is  secure  of  his  portion. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  two  sons  are  Christ  and  man; 
elder,  that  is  Christ,  divided  the  inheritance;  the  mother 
is  the  earth,  which  the  younger  chose,  and  thereby  lost 


TALE    XCI. 


The  Emperor   Pliny  had   three  sons,  to  whom   he  ^ 
extremely  indulgent.     He  wished  to  dispose  of  his  king- 
dom» and  calling  the  throe  into  his  presence,  spoke  thus : 


164 


GESTA  KOMANOKUM. 


"  The  most  slothful  of  you  shall  reign  after  my  decease 
"  Then,"  finswcivil  the  elder,  "(lie  kingdom  must  bo  rain* 
for  I  am  so  W,y,  that  sitting  once  by  the  fire,  I  humt  ia 
legs,  lwauso  1  was  t*x>  indolent  to  withdraw  them."  Tl 
second  son  observed,  "  Tho  kingdom  should  properly  h 
mine,  for  if  I  hnd  a  rope  round  my  neck,  and  held  ;i  unvnl 
in  my  hand,  my  idleness  is  such,  that  I  should  not.  j'ui 
forth  my  hand  to  cut  the  rope."  "  But  I,"  said  the  third 
son,  "  onght  to  be  preferred  to  you  both  ;  for  I  outdated 
in  indolence.  While  I  lay  upon  my  bed,  water  droppl 
from  above  upon  my  eyes  ;  and  though,  from  tho  nature 
of  the  water,  I  was  in  danger  of  becoming  blind,  I  neither 
could  nor  would  turn  my  head  ever  bo  littlo  to  tho  right 
hand  or  to  the  left."  The  empomr  hearing  this,  beqiicrLiiiwl 
the  kingdom  to  bini,  thinking  hjia  the  laziest  of  tlw 
three.  * 


My  beloved,  tlie  king  is  the  devil;  and  the  three  bow. 
;ses  of  corrupt  mnn. 


eldest  mn,  i 
a  jrrea/  ' 


by  your  father,  to  ba  pwtfd 
you  three?     They  nnsnered  tli.-  jiuLt,  he  that  ahull  1»  tl" 

«lulled  i» 


"  And  the  mill,  how  was  it  demised  by 
mring  ymi  three V     They  answered  the  jm  „  . 
ncet  lyar,  moat  evil,  and  must  idmv,  misilit  to  have  it.     Then 


t  tilnthfiit,  fur  many  years  past  I  bov 


.o  all  tin'  full  I  «.it!  it,  ;ik  di.-h-w;itor  mid  cilicr  lillli.  that  mnstiH 
fully  »lunk,  iiiMiiiiin.'li  ill; M  nil  my  llesh  ws  rotten  therewith,  «rid  mi0" 
i;vi>i  lil i nd,  and  the  iliirt  tinder  niv  hiiok  huh  a  tout  hiyh,  and  J*1  ty 
sloth  I  hud  rather  abide  there  thin  rise  up.  The  second  «M} 
siiji]ifiBi?,  tlint  the  mill  shall  he  mine,  for  if  I  came  to  a  tahle  carei™ 
with  all  milliner  oT  delicate  meats,  wlicrof  I  mi  «lit  eat  if  IwooMwJ 
of  the  heat  r  I  am  bo  slothful  that  I  miv  not  eat,  unless,  one  b!'™1''1 
put  tho  meat  in  roy  mouth,  The  third  nayd,  tlie  mill  shiill  be  mi:»-. 
for  J  "III  vet  ji  greater  Ivur,  and  mure  slolhful  than  any  of  you  '"'■'' 
for  if  I  hurl  thirst  unto  the  d.nlh,  ami  if  I  found  then  iilv.o  i 
i,  fair  water  up  to  Liu  neck.  I  would  rather  dve.  (hnn  move  mvs-'  "' 
drink  one  drop  thereof.  Thon  Mid  the  judge.  Ye  wot  net  i"»1  f 
lay;  for  neither  I,  nor  any  other,  may  well  umltvataud,  you;  lul  W" 
cuuse  I  remit  among  you." 


OF  A  FAITHFUL   SOUL. 


TALE  XCII. 

OF  CHRIST,  WHO   DIED  THAT  WE  MIGHT  LIVE. 

A  certain  king  had  a  wife  named  Cornelia.  It  happened 
that,  under  a  wall  in  one  of  the  king's  castles,  two  serpents 
were  discovered ;  one  male,  and  the  other  female.  The 
king,  hearing  of  this,  interrogated  his  learned  men  as  to 
the  signification;  and  they  assured  him  that  they  were 
hidden  there  to  predict  the  death  of  a  man  or  woman. 
They  further  declared  that  if  the  male  were  killed,  a  man 
should  die  ;  if  the  female,  a  woman  and  a  wife.  "  If  this 
be  so,"  said  the  king,  "  kill  the  male  serpent,  and  let  the 
female  live;  for  a  man  ought  more  willingly  to  die  him- 
self than  permit  the  death  of  his  wife."  And  he  gave 
this  reason  for  it :  "  If  my  wife  live,  she  may  bring  forth 
many  sons  who  may  succeed  to  my  throne ;  but  if  she 
ehould  die,  the  kingdom  wuuld  want  an  heir." 


APPLICATION, 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  wif 
nature,  for  which  He  gave  himself  to  death. 


TALE  XCII  I. 


OF  THE   INHERITANCE  AND  JOY  OF   A  FAITHFUL 
SOUL. 

A  certain  powerful  lord  sent  his  two  sons  to  study,  that 
they  might,  by  their  own  assiduity,  obtain  a  livelihood. 
After  some  time  ho  scut  letters  to  them,  to  command  their 
return  to  their  own  country;  and  thuy  returned  accordingly. 
One  of  the  brothers  rejoiced  at  this,  and  waa  received  with 
equal  pleasure.  He  was,  moreover,  put  in  possession  of 
a  fair  inheritance.  But  the  other  was  much  distressed  at 
his  recall.     When  hia  mother  ran  out  to  meet  him,  she 


166  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

kissed  him.  and  while  doing  so  Lit  off  his  lips.  His  sister, 
also,  following  the  mother's  example,  bit  off  his  nose.  Hifl 
brother  also  put  out  his  eyes ;  and  the  father,  entering, 
caught  him  by  the  hair  of  his  head  and  flayed  him  alive.' 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  rich  lord  is  God,  and  the  two  son» 
are  soul  and  body  ;  the  latter  of  which  is  unwilling  to 
return  to  its  native  earth.  The  sister  and  brothers  ft 
toads  and  serpents,  who  devour  the  nose,  eyes,  &c. 


I 


OF  THE  SOUL,  WHICH  BEING  INFECTED  WITH  TUX 
LEPROSY  OF  SIN,  CANNOT  RECOVER  ITS  AKC1EST 
BEAUTY,  EXCEPT  BY  PENITENTIAL  SIGHS  AND  TEiBS. 

A  kino  being  desirous  of  visiting  foreign  countries,  ami 
possessing  an  only  daughter  of  great  beauty,  indeed 
infinitely  brighter  than  the  sun,  knew  not  into  wbu» 
custody  he  might  fearlessly  consign  her.  At  last  he  pu' 
her  under  the  charge  of  hia  secretary,  for  whom  he  had 


in  the  Latin  .Esop.     It  is  us  follows: — 

"There  wis  a  yrnni^r  i-hild  which  in  his  youth  began  to  ste*li"™ 
nil  that  he  diil  steal  lie  I'tonghl  to  hi.-  mother,  and  the  mother  V" '' 
gladly,  and  woulil  in  no  wise  correct  liim  ;  and  after  lie  hud  -■'  ''■" 
iniLi.y  thin k*i  be  "iis  taken  :i i nl  c'iiLili.'iniii..i!  to  lie  hanged;  and  siBUflj 
led  him  tii  llii!  justice,  his  mother  followed  him  and  wept  fiore:  *» 
then  the  child  prayed  the  justice  that  lie  mi  id  it  say  soniewlait  t'  lw 
mother,  and  having  leave,  he  approached  to  her,  and  mukiiii:  iif  ''": 
he  would  pjienk  to  her  In  her  car,  wiih  I  dr.  I.eeth  he  bit  off  her  W*: 
for  which,  when  the  judge  blamed  him,  he  answered  him  in  u*1' 
manner,  My  lord,  she  is  (he  cause  of  my  death,  for  if  she  H»d  i"11 
chastised  me,  I  had  not  come  to  this  shame."  . 

This  fable,  it  in  true,  bus  a  different  application,  anil  the  plot  <* 
it  {bo  to  Epeuk)  likewise  varies  :  hut  the  singular  thought  of  biting  ™ 
a  person's  BOM  can  have  had  but  one  origin. 


OF  THE  SOUL. 


m 


the  greatest  regard.  Ho  commanded  him.  to  take  every 
precaution,  and  especially  to  guard  against  her  drinking 
of  a  singular  fountain  which  sprung  up  in  that  country. 
For  it  had  tho  property,  although  of  a  most  eiquisite 
flavour,  of  infecting  with  leprosy  whosoever  tasted  it. 
The  secretary,  therefore,  in  order  to  restore  her  to  her 
father  as  beautiful  as  when  he  departed,  reflected  much 
upon  his  precarious  employment ;  remembering,  at  the 
Bame  time,  that  if  she  were  at  all  injured  he  should  lose 
his  office,  and  be  unahle  to  meet  his  manter.  For  a  while 
he  watched  his  charge  with  extromo  vigilance;  but  the 
lady  having  discovered  the  fountain,  went  eo  cunningly  to 
work,  that  she  drank  of  it,  and  was  consequently  iniVctud 
with  a  loathsome  disease.  Tho  secretary  perceiving  this, 
was  filled  with  the  most  poignant  grief,  and  carried  her 
away  to  a  desert  region.  There  he  found  a  hermit ;  and 
heating  with  his  hands  upon  tho  door  of  his  cell,  related 
to  him  all  that  had  happened,  In* eccl'iing  him  to  point  out 
how  she  might  he  healed.  "  Go,"  said  the  hermit,  "  to 
a  mountain  which  I  will  show  you :  in  that  place  you 
■will  discover  a  certain  stone  and  a  peculiar  kind  of  rod. 
Take  this  rod,  and  strike  the  stone  sharply,  strongly,  and 
boldly,  until  a  moisture  exudes  from  it.  Anoint  the  lady 
with  this  liquid,  and  sho  will  bo  presently  restored  to  her 
original  beauty."  The  secretary  strictly  followed  the 
hermit's  injunctions,  and  the  lady  became  as  she  was 
before. 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  daughter  is  the 
soul,  originally  brighter  than  the  sun.  The  fountain  is 
the  world,  which  infects  it  with  sin.  The  recluse  is  the 
Church;  the  rod,  penitence;  and  the  moisture,  the  tears  of 
acontrito  heart. 


GESTA  ROMAN0RU1I. 


We  read  in  the  Roman  annals  of  a  certain  tyrant  called 
Masen ti us,  who  would  have  deprived  the  Romans  of  their 
paternal  estates.  Yielding  to  the  cruelty  of  the  tyrant 
they  (It'll  to  Constantino,  kin^uf  1'iiilam.  At  length,  when 
many  wcro  assembled  at  his  court,  the  emigrants  tlirrcd 
up  the  British  monarch  to  revenge  them  upon  the  tyrant 
Moved  by  their  entreaties,  ('oi:stiiiitine  mouuted  his  horse, 
overthrew  tho  tyrant,  and  restored  the  exiles  to  their 
inheritance." 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  tyrant  is  the  devil ;  and  Coostantins 
represents  that  God  to  whom  the  distressed  should  flee 


OF  THE  LIFE   PBESENT,  WHICH   IS  A  LIFE  0 

AND  GRACE. 
Kiss  Alexander  placed  a  burning  candle  in  bis  hall,  ana 
sent  heralds  through  the  whole  kingdom,  who  made  u® 
following  proclamation  : — "  If  there  bo  any  under  Wf" 
feiture  to  the  king,  and  he  will  come  boldly  into  ^ 
prusence,  while  the  caiidlo  burns,  the  king  will  lori^'- 
the  forfeiture.  And  whosoever  is  in  this  pri-dimm;  [-;j 
and  comes  nut  before  the  expiratiun  of  the  candle,  he  sli1"! 
perish  by  an  ignominous  death."  Many  of  the  populi"*1' 
hearing  the  proclamation,  came  to  tho  king  and  Iwsi.fl^1' 
his   mercy.     The  king  received  them  kindly;   but  tttiW 

•  "I  think  tin-re  i; 


were  many  who  neglected  to  come ;  and  tho  very  moment 
in  which  the  candle  expired,  they  were  apprehended  and 
put  to  death. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  Alexander  is  Christ,  the  burning  candle 
is  the  life  present,  and  the  heralds  are  the  preachers. 


TALE     XCVII. 

OF   DEATH. 

We  read  in  the  Eoman  chronicles  that,  ahont  the  twenty- 
eecond  year  from  the  building  of  the  city,  the  people 
erected  in  the  Forum  a  marble  column,  and  on  the  top  of 
it  placed  an  imago  of  Julius  Caesar."  Upon  tho  head  they 
inscribed  his  name,  because  it  was  erected  in  his  honour. 
The  same  Juliun  Causar  received  three  signs  which  were  to 
happen  at  his  death,  or  just  beforo  ho  was  to  die.  On  the 
hundredth  day  preceding  this  event,  the  effigy  in  the 
Forum  was  struck  by  lightning,  and  the  first  letter  of  hia 
name  OTased.  The  very  night  before  his  death,  the 
windows  of  his  bed-chamber  burst  open  with  suoh  a 
tremendous  noise,  that  he  thought  the  whole  building 
had  been  overturned.  And  on  the  same  day  that  he  died, 
when  about  to  go  into  the  Capitol,  letters  «ere  given  him, 
declaring  tho  danger  in  which  he  stood.  If  he  had  read 
them  he  would  have  been  saved. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  God  does  thus  with  mankind.  We  receive 
many  warnings,  but  not  attending  to  them  are  eternally 
destroyed. 

•  A  very  singular  annchronism ;  but  for  what  reason  (save  that  of 
ignoran™!}  chronology  has  lict-n  eo  much  vinliiU-il.  it  is  not  easy  to 
conceive.    There  does  not  appear  any  necessity  ii,r  Bzing  tho  date. 


GESTA  BOMAXOELTL 


TALE  XCVril. 


The  Komans  had  an  ancient  custom,  that  when  they 
besieged  a  castle  or  oity,  they  lighted  a  single  candle  of 
a  certain  length;  and  as  long  as  it  burnt,  they  were  pre- 
pared to  roocive  overtures  of  peace,  however  vile  the 
proposer.  But  after  it  waB  consumed  they  exercised  the 
severest  justice  upon  their  enemies,  nor  could  any  one 
then  be  redeemed  even  by  the  sacrifice  of  all  he  was 
worth.' 


My  beloved,  God  thus  treats  sinners.     For  the  soul, 
when   beset  by  vices,  has  an   opportunity   of  pro 
peace  as  long  as  the  light  of  life  burns. 


irocuring 

IT. 


OF  CHRIST'S  MANLY  CONTEST  AND  VICTORY. 

1»  the  reign  of  Csesar  there  lived  a  noble  and  valiant 
knight,  who  once  rode  by  a  certain  forest,  and  beheld  a 
eerpent  engaging  with  a  toad.f  The  latter  obtaiued  the 
mastery;  which  when  the  knight  saw,  he  assisted  the 
serpent;  and  grievously  wounding  the  toad,  reduced  it 
to  seek  saffity  in  flight.  But  the  conqueror  was  also 
affected  by  tho  toad's  venom.  The  knight  turned  home- 
ward, and  for  a  long  time  lay  sick  of  his  wound.  At  last 
he  made  his  will  and  prepared  himself  for  death.  Now, 
as  he  reclined  near  thfl  fire,  utterly  hopeless  of  lifo,  the 

*  This  apologue  U  very  similar  to  Tale  XCVI. 

t  "  Tho  storiiw,  perhaps  fabulous,  of  tho  serpent  lighting  with  his 
iterate  enemy.  I  In:  wimsi-1,  «1m  rati  ruo  before  the-  iitlaek  begins  ; 
of  the  serpent  tidiliiii;  with.  mi. I  bem;;  killed  by  the  spider, 
iaate  frouj  Plioy,  Aru(.  Hist.  j.  81,  xz.  13."— Wabtos. 


OF  CHRIST.  171 

serpent  which  he  had  preserved  entered  the  apartment. 
When  the  attendants  beheld  it,  they  said,  "  My  lord,  my 
lord,  a  serpent  has  entered  the  room  I  "  When  the  knight 
saw  it,  he  recollected  that  it  was  the  same  he  had  aided  in 
its  contest  with  the  toad,  anil  through  which  he  was  laid 
npon  his  bed  incurable.  "  Do  not  molest  it,"  said  the 
knight,  "  I  do  not  believe  that  it  will  harm  me."  The 
serpent  glided  towards  him,  and  applying  its  tongue  to 
the  wound,  sucked  up  the  poison  till  its  mouth  was  quite 
full;  and  then,  hastening  to  the  door,  cast  it  out.  It 
returned  twice  to  the  wound,  and  did  as  before,  until  the 
venom  was  exhausted.  The  knight  commanded  milk  to 
be  given  to  the  serpent,  which  it  instantly  drank  ;  and  no 
sooner  had  it  done  so,  than  the  toad  from  which  the 
wound  had  been  received,  entered,  and  again  attacked  the 
serpent,  in  revenge  for  its  hiivinir  In  -i  1 1  ■.-•  1  the  knight.  The 
latter  seeing  this,  said  to  his  servants,  "Without  doubt, 
my  friends,  this  is  the  toad  which  I  wounded  in  defence 
of  that  serpent,  and  from  which  I  derive  all  my  in- 
firmity. If  it  conquer,  it  will  attack  me  ;  therefore,  as  ye 
love  your  master,  kill  it  incontinently."  The  servants, 
obedient  to  the  knight's  command,  slew  it  with  swords 
and  clubs;  while  the  serpent, as  if  to  praise  and  thank  its 
defender,  twined  around  his  feet,  and  then  departed.  The 
knight  completely  recovered  his  health. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God;  the  knight,  Christ; 
the  toad  is  the  devil,  and  the  serpent,  man- 


OP   CHRIST,  WHO   IS   LONG-SUFFERING  AND 
MERCIFUL. 

Wheit  Diocletian  reiiiiied,  ho  decreed  that  whatsoever 
woman  committed  adultery  should  be  put  to  death.  It 
happened  that  a  certain  knight  married  a  girl  and  had 


172  GESTA   ROMANOBUM. 

a  son  by  her.  The  child  grow,  and  every  one  loved  hixit. 
After  a  while  hie  father  went  out  to  battle,  and,  fighting 
manfully,  was  deprived  of  his  right  arm.  In  the  mean 
time  his  wife  lost  her  honour ;  and  the  husband,  on  his 
Tetura,  discovering  the  shame,  ought,  according  to  law,  V) 
have  put  her  to  death.  Calling  his  son,  thuroforc-,  !n; 
Baid,  "My  dear  boy,  your  mother  has  committed  adultery, 
and  by  law  should  die  by  my  hand}  but  I  have  lost  my 
arm,  and  am  unable  to  destroy  her.  I  command  yi.ni  to  1" 
this."  The  son  answered,  "  The  law  enjoins  ohildrcu  to 
honour  thoir  parents ;  and  if  I  were  to  slay  my  oira 
mother,  I  should  nit  contrary  to  the  law,  and  bring  «!)«ti 
her  curse  on  myself.  Therefore  in  this  I  canik>t  "Wy 
you,"     So  the  woman  was  saved  from  death  by  her  son. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God;  the  knight,  Christ: 
and  the  wife,  the  soul.  If  the  soul  err,  the  law  of  God 
commands  its  death.  Christ  fights  against  the  devil,  and 
loses  an  arm ;  that  is,  all  the  austerity  which 
previous  to  hie  incarnation. 


TALE   CI. 

OF  WORLDLY  EVIL  AND  DISTRESS. 
We  read  of  a  certain  man,  named  Gariter,  who  wi 
his  pleasures  might  never  end.  He  got  up  one 
and  walked  until  he  came  to  a  kingdom  in  \ 

Erince  was  lately  deceased.  The  noblemen  observing 
e  was  a  bold  man,  chose  him  for  their  king.*  Ho  Wt 
of  course,  much  elevated  with  the  election.  But  at  nigh'' 
when  the  servants  brought  him  into  his  chamber,  hi  [*'' 
ceived  at  the  head  of  the  bed  a  very  fierce  lion ;  a  drag"" 
was  at  the  foot;  on  the  right  side,  a  hnge  bear;  *"» 

•  Perhaps  thia  part  of  the  Btory  may  arise  in  the  cIoj-klimI  u'1'. 
Gordiui.  who  was  similarly  ruiswl  to  ttic  ttirouc.    See  Jutti*.  ii. *'■  " 


OF  WORLDLY  EVIL  AND   DISTRESS. 


173 


serpents  and  toads  on  the  left,  "  What  is  all  this  ?  "  asked 
Grantor ;  "  am  I  to  sleep  in  company  with  all  these  beasts  ? " 
"  Tea,  my  lord,"  was  the  reply ;  "  for  all  the  former  kings 
have  done  so,  and  by  these  beasts  have  been  devoured," 
"  That  ia  all  very  fine,"  returned  Gantor,  "  but  as  I  feel  no 
relish  for  either  the  bed  or  the  beasts,  I  will  not  be  your 
king."  He  therefore  wont  his  way,  and  came  into  another 
kingdom,  where,  in  like  manner,  he  was  called  to  the 
throne.  At  night  he  enterod  the  bed-chamber,  and  beheld 
a  very  superb  couch,  full  of  sharp  razors.  "  What !  "  ex- 
claimed he,  "am  I  to  sleep  in  this  bed?"  "Even  so,  my 
lord,"  replied  the  attendants ;  "  for  in  this  bed  all  our 
kings  have  laid,  and  have  perished."  "Why,"  said  Ganter, 
"everything  is  excellent,  except  this  bud ;  but  because  of 
this  I  will  not  be  your  sovereign."  In  the  morning  he 
again  departed,  and  travelled  for  three  days  alone.  On 
the  way  he  saw  an  old  man  sitting  abovo  a  fountain. 
His  hand  contained  a  staff,  and  when  our  traveller  ap- 
proached, he  said,  "My  dear  Ganter,  whence  come  you?" 
"I  come,"  he  replied,  "from  foreign  countries."  "And 
where  are  you  going?"  "To  seek  three  things  which 
I  cannot  find."  "What  are  they?"  "The  first,"  said 
Ganter,  "is  unfailing  plenty;  the  second,  joy  without 
sorrow ;  and  the  third,  light  without  darkness."  "  Take 
this  staff,"  said  the  old  man,  "  and  go  thy  way.  Before 
you  is  a  high  mountain,  and  at  its  foot  a  ladder  with  six 
stops.  Go  up  it,  and  when  you  have  attained  the  sixth, 
you  will  be  at  the  top  of  the  mountain.  There  you  will 
discover  a  magnificent  palace ;  strike  three  times  at  the 
gate,  and  the  porter  will  answer  you,  Show  him  the 
staff,  and  say,  '  The  master  of  the  staff  commands  you  to 
admit  me.'  When  you  have  gained  admittance,  you  will 
find  the  three  things  which  you  seek."  Ganter  did  as  the 
old  man  desired ;  and  the  porter,  seeing  the  staff,  per- 
mitted him  to  enter.  He  found  what  ho  had  sought,  and 
much  more;  and  there  he  continued  during  the  residue  of 


s  life. 


ArFLI  CATION. 


My  beloved,  Ganter  is  any  g 
rnal  life.     The  first  bed  is  hu 


1  Christian,  who  seeks 
.n  life,  with  its  v 


174  OEBTA   ROMANORUM. 

attendant  evils:  do  not  rest  there.  The  second  is  hell 
with  its  torments — and,  oh  I  avoid  that.  Take  the  staff 
of  penitence,  and  climb  by  the  ladder  of  holiness  unto  a 
heavenly  place,  whose  porter  is  divine  goodness.* 


Is  the  reign  of  Titus  thcro  lived  a  certain  noble  mil 
devout  knight,  who  had  a  beautiful  wife;  but  she  dis- 
honoured herself,  and  persisted  in  her  dishonour.  The 
knight,  therefore,  was  very  sorrowful,  and  resolved  hi  visit 
the  Holy  Land.  In  this  determination  he  said  to  hiewife, 
"  My  beloved,  I  go  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  leave  }'on  to 
the  guidance  of  your  own  discretion."  No  sooner  bad  he 
embarked  than  the  lady  sent  for  a  certain  skilful  neero- 
mancer,  whom  she  loved ;  and  he  dwelt  with  her.  It 
happened  that,  as  they  lay  in  bed,  the  lady  observed, 
"  If  you  would  do  one  thing  for  me,  I  might  become  your 
wife.  "  What  is  it,"  replied  ho,  "  that  will  please  yen, 
and  which  I  can  perform  for  you?" 

"  My  husband  is  gone  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  loves  me 
little ;  now,  if  by  your  art  you  could  destroy  him,  all  that 
I  possess  is  yours."  "I  acquiesce,"  said  the  clerk,  "hut 
on  condition  that  you  marry  me."  To  this  the  l»dy 
bound  herself,  and  the  necromancer  fashioned  an  inwg0 
under  the  similitude  and  name  of  the  knight,  and  few 
it  before  him  on  the  wall. 

In   the  mean   time,   while   the   knight  was    passing 

•  "III  more  eonfinod  sense,  the  first  part  of  thin  apologue  wr  ^ 
separately  interpreted  to  signify  that  a  king,  when  he  (alien  an  Wl 
important  charge,  ought  not  to  suppose  himself  to  succeed  to  tt" 
privilege  of  (in  i-xcini.it ion  fmm  rare,  mid  to  lit-  put  into  the  ii'i[:ii,l'1Jl' 
possession  of  the  highest  pleasures,  conveniences,  and  felicities  "' 
life;  but  to  be  sensible,  that  from  that  moment,  he  begun 
the  greatest  dangers  and  diiticulties."— N'aktus. 


OF  THE   TRANSGRESSION'S   OF  THE   SOCL.  175 

liirongh  the  main  street  of  Rome,  a  wise  master  met  him 

id  observing  him  narrowly,   said,   "  My 

Becret  to  communicate." 

"  Well,  master,  what  would  yon  please  to  Bay  ?  " 

"This  day  you  are  one  of  death's  children,  unless  yon 

bllow  my  advice :  your  wife  is  a  harlot,  and  contrives 

Er  death."  The  knight,  hearing  what  was  said  of 
Bjwuse,  put  confidence  in  the  speaker,  and  said,  "Good 
Waster,  save  my  life,  and  I  will  amply  recompense  yon." 
"WUingry,"  answered  the  other,  "if  you  will  do  as  I 
shall  tell  you."  The  knight  promised,  and  the  master 
twk  him  to  a  bath,  undressed  him,  and  desired  him  to 
fetlie.  Then  putting  into  hie  hand  a  polished  mirror, 
fiaii,  "  Look  attentively  upon  this,  and  yon  will  see 
■wonders."  He  did  bo,  and  the  meanwhile  the  master 
rend  to  him  from  a  book.  "  What  see  you?"  he  asked. 
"I  see,"  said  the  knight,  "a  certain  clerk  in  my  house, 
""itli  an  image  of  was  which  resembles  me,  and  which  he 
las  fastened  in  the  wall."  "  Look  again,"  continued  the 
Blaster;  "what  do  you  perceive  now?" 

"He  takes  a  bow,  and  places  in  it  a  sharp  arrow;  and 
now  he  aims  at  the  effigy." 

"As  you  love  your  life,  the  moment  yon  discern  the 
*!row  flying  to  its  mark,  place  yourself  in  the  bath,  and 
*-«main  there  until  I  tell  you  to  come  out." 

Ab  soon,  therefore,  as  the  arrow  quitted  the  string,  ho 
plnnged  his  body  into  the  water.  This  done,  the  master 
^aiil,  "  Eaise  your  head  and  look  into  the  mirror.  What 
*lo  you  perceive  now?"  "The  effigy  is  not  struck,  and 
*ie  arrow  is  sticking  by  its  side.  The  clerk  apiiears 
"*JUch  concerned."  "Look  in  the  mirror  once  more,"  «aid 
the  master,  "  and  observe  what  he  does."  "  He  now  goes 
learer  to  the  image,  and  refixes  the  arrow  in  the  string  in 
°*ier  to  strike  it." 

"As  you  value  your  life,  do  as  before." 
Again  the  knight  plunged  his  body  into  the  water  as 
"~  a  he  saw  by  the  mirror  that  the  clerk  was  bending 
"  ;  and  then,  at  the  command  of  the  master,  re- 
lis  inspection  of  the  mirror,  said — 
3  clerk  makes  great  lamentation,  and  says  to  10» 
■'-■ '  If  the  third  time  1  do  not  strike  the  effigy,  I  shall 


176  GESTA  BOMAKOKCM. 

lose  my  life.'     Now  lie  approaches  bo  near  that  I  think  he 
cannot  miss  it." 

"  Take  care,"  said  the  master.  "  as  soon  as  yon  see  him 
bend  the  bow,  immerse  your  body  as  1  before  told  yon." 
The  knight  watched  attentively,  and  as  soon  as  he  saw 
the  clerk  draw  back  the  bow  to  shoot,  plunged  below  the 
water.  "  Rise  quickly,  and  look  into  the  mirror."  "When 
he  had  done  so,  he  began  to  laugh.  "  My  friend,"  said 
the  master,  "  why  do  you  langh  ?  "  "I  observe,"  answered 
he,  "  very  distinctly,  that  the  clerk  has  missed  the  effigy, 
and  that  the  arrow,  rebounding,  has  entered  his  bowels 
and  destroyed  him.  My  wife  makes  a  hole  under  my  bed, 
and  there  he  is  buried." 

"  Else,  then,  dross  yourself,  and  pray  to  God." 
The  knight  returned  sincere  thanks  far  his  life,  and, 
having  performed  his  pilgrimage,  journeyed  toward  his 
own  home.  His  wife  met  and  received  him  with  much 
apparent  pleasure.  He  dissembled  for  a  few  days,  and 
t&en  sending  for  her  parents,  said  to  them,  "  My  deaT 
friends,  hear  why  I  have  desired  your  presence.  This 
woman,  your  daughter  and  my  wife,  has  committed 
adultery;  and,  what  is  worse,  designed  to  murder  me." 
The  lady  denied  the  accusation  with  an  oath.  The  knight 
then  began  to  relate  the  whole  story  of  the  clerk's  actions 
and  end.  "  And,"  he  continued,  "  if  you  do  not  credit  this, 
come  and  see  where  the  clerk  is  buried."  He  then  led 
them  into  the  bed-chamber,  and  dragged  tho  body  from 
its  hiding-place.  The  judge  was  called,  and  sentenced 
ner  to  be  burnt,  and  her  ashes  to  bo  scattered  in  the  air. 
The  knight  soon  afterwards  espoused  a  beautiful  virgin, 
by  whom  he  had  many  children;  and  with  whom  he 
finished  his  days  in  peace."  (8) 


My  beloved,  tho  emperor  is  Christ ;  the  knight  is  man ; 
and  the  wife,  the  flesh.  To  visit  the  Holy  Land  is  by 
good  works  to  attain  Heaven.     The  wise  master  is  a 


OF  CONCORD   AND   FORETHOUGHT.  1' 

prudent  confessor.  The  clerk  is  the  devil,  and  the  ima| 
represents  human  pride  and  vanity.  The  bath  is  co 
fession ;  the  mirror,  the  Sacred  Writings,  which  ward  < 


Domitian  was  a  very  wiso  and  just  prince,"  and  suffered  no 
offender  to  escape.  It  happened  that  as  he  once  sat  at 
table,  a  certain  merchant  knocked  at  the  gate.  The  porter 
opened  it,  and  asked  what  he  pleased  to  want.  "  I  have 
brought  some  useful  things  for  sale,"  answered  the  mer- 
chant. The  porter  introduced  him  ;  and  he  very  humbly 
laade  obeisance  to  the  emperor.  "My  friend,"  said  the 
latter,  "  what  merchandise  have  you  to  dispose  of? " 
"  Three  maxims  of  especial  wisdom  and  excellence,  my 
lord."  "  And  how  much  will  you  take  for  your  maxims?" 
"  A  thousand  florins."  "  And  so,"  said  the  king,  "  if  they 
are  of  no  use  to  me,  I  lose  my  money?"  "My  lord," 
answered  the  merchant,  "  if  the  maxims  do  not  stand  you 
in  stead,  I  will  return  the  money."  "  Very  well,"  said 
the  emperor ;  "  let  us  hear  your  maxims."  "  The  first, 
my  lord,  is  this — '  Whatever  you  do,  do  wisely,  and 
think  of  the  consequences.'  The  second  is — '  Never  leave 
the  highway  for  a  byway.'  And,  thirdly,  'Never  stay 
all  night  as  a  guest  in  that  house  where  you  find  the 
master  an  old  man,  and  his  wife  a  young  woman.'  These 
three  maxims,  if  you  attend  to  them,  will  be  extremely 
serviceable."  The  emperor,  being  of  the  same  opinion, 
ordered  him  to  be  paid  a  thousand  florins  ;  and  so  pleased 
was  he  with  the  first,  that  he  commanded  it  to  be  inscribed 
in  his  court,  in  his  bed-chamber,  and  in  every  place  where 
he  was  accustomed  to  walk;  and  even  upon  the  table- 
cloths   of   the    palace.      Now,    the    rigid  justice    of   the 


\  strange  contradiction  of  hieiotj'. 


1~8  QESTA   ROMANORUM. 

emperor  occasioned  a  conspiracy  among  a  number  of  h^ 
subjects ;   and  finding  the  means  of  accomplishing  tlie^ 
purposes   somewhat  difficult,  they  engaged  a  barber,  tkj 
large  promises,  to  cut  bis  throat  as  he  shaved  him.     Whe» 
the   emperor,   therefore,    was   to  be    shaved,    the  barber 
lathered  his  beard,  and  began  to  operate  upon  it ;  but 
easting  his  eyes  over  the  towel  which  he  had  fastened 
round  the  royal  neck,*    he   perceived   woven   tbereoa — 
"  Whatever  you  do,  do  wisely,   and   think  of  the  con- 
sequences."    The  inscription   startled   this  tousor,  and  be 
said  to  himself,  "  I  am  to-day  hired  to  destroy  this  man; 
if  I  do  it,  my  end  will  be  ignominious;  I  shall  be  con- 
demned to  the  most  shameful   dciith.      Therefore,  wliatw- 
ever  I  do,  it  is  good  to  consider  the  end,  as  the  writiuj; 
testifies."     Those  eogituljiuis  <1  ist <i rl >l-J   the  worthy  toiwr 
so  much  that  his  hand  trembled,  and  tbo  razor  fell  to  the 
ground.     The  emperor  seeing   this,  inquired   the  cam 
"Oh,  my  lord,"  said  the  barber,  "have  mercy  upon  me: 
1  was  hired  this  day  to  destroy  you  ;  but  accidentally. "' 
rather  by  the  will  of  God,  1  read  the  inscription  on  tin 
towel,  '  Whatever  you  do,  do  wisely,  and  think  of  tins 
consequences.'     Whereby,  considering  that,  of  a  surety, 
the  consequence  would  be  my  own  destruction,  my  hand 
trembled   so   much,    that   I  lost  all   command  over  it. 
"Well,"   thought   the   emperor,   "this    first    maxim  bath, 
assuredly  saved  my  life :  in  a  good  hour  was  it  purciwwd. 
My  friend,"  said  bo  to  the  tonsor,  "on  condition  that  y»a 
be  faithful  hereafter,  I  pardon  you." 

The  noblemen,  who  bad  conspired  against  the  emWTSi 
finding  that  their  project  had  failed,  consulted  with  one 
another  what  they  were  to  do  nest.  "  On  such  a  day,' 
said  one,  "  he  journeys  to  a  particular  city  ;  we  will  bide 
ourselves  in  a  bypath,  through  which  be  will  pass,  and 
so  kill  him."  The  counsel  was  approved.  The  king.  J* 
bad  been  expected,  prepared  to  set  out ;  and  riding  on  till 
he  came  to  the  bypath,  bis  knights  said,  "  My  lord,  it  will 
be  better  for  you  to  go  this  way,  than  to  pass  along  lbs 

*  A  curious  picture.  One  sees  the  whole  process — the  to*d 
twisted  under  his  jaws,  the  hither  i-liiuiii^  r"uud  tin:  «Lin.  wid  •'" 
r;i?.i>r  derated   tiir  tin..  i.|jur;iliou.     If  he  "shaved  for  twopence,"  •'" 

fieserifjtion  would  be  complete. 


OF  CONCORD  AND  FORETHOUGHT.       179 

broad  road ;  it  is  considerably  nearer."  The  king  pondered 
the  matter  within  himself.  "  The  second  maxim,"  thought 
he,  "  admonishes  me  never  to  forsake  the  highway  for  a 
by-way.  I  will  adhere  to  that  maxim."  Then  turning  to 
his  soldiers,  "  I  shall  not  quit  the  public  road ;  but  you,  if 
it  please  ye,  may  proceed  by  that  path,  and  prepare  for 
nty  approach."  Accordingly  :i  number  of  them  went ;  and 
the  ambush,  imagining  that  the  king  rode  in  their  com- 
pany, fell  upon  them  and  put  the  greater  part  to  the 
sword.  When  the  news  reached  the  king,  he  secretly 
exclaimed,  "  My  second  maxim  bath  also  saved  my  life." 

Seeing,  therefore,  that  by  this  piece  of  cunning  they 
were  unable  to  slay  their  lord,  the  conspirators  again  took 
counsel,  and  said  among  themselves,  "  On  a  certain  day  he 
will  lodge  in  a  particular  ]i"iis.-.  where  all  the  nobles  lodge, 
because  there  is  no  other  fit  for  his  reception.  Let  us 
then  agree  with  the  master  of  that  bouse  and  bis  wife,  for 
a  sum  of  money,  and  then  kill  the  emperor  as  he  lies  in 
bed."  This  was  agreed  to.  But  when  the  emperor  bad 
come  into  the  city,  and  had  been  lodged  in  the  house  to 
which  tho  conspirators  referred,  he  commanded  his  host 
to  be  called  into  bis  presence.  Observing  that  he  was  an 
old  man,  the  emperor  said,  "Have  you  not  a  wifo?" 
"  Yes,  my  lord."  "  I  wish  to  see  her."  The  lady  came  ; 
and  when  it  appeared  that  she  was  very  young — not 
eighteen  years  of  age — the  king  said  hastily  to  his 
chamberlain,  "  Away,  prepare  me  a  bed  in  another  house. 
I  will  remain  here  no  longer."  "  My  lord,"  replied  he, 
"be  it  as  you  please.  But  they  have  made  everything 
ready  for  you  :  were  it  not  better  to  lie  where  you  are, 
for  in  the  whole  city  thvro  is  not  so  com  modi  ous  a  place." 
"I  tell  you,"  answered  the  emperor,  "I  will  sleep  else- 
where." The  chamberhmi,  therefore,  removed;  and  the 
king  went  privately  to  another  resilience,  saying  to  the 
soldiers  about  him,  "Remain  bore,  if  you  like;  but  join 
me  early  in  the  morning."  Now.  while  they  slept,  the  old 
man  and  his  wife  arose,  being  bril>ed  to  kill  the  king  in  his 
sleep,  and  put  to  death  all  the  soldiers  who  had  remained. 
In  the  morning  the  king  arose  and  found  his  soldiers 
slain.  "Oh,"  cried  he,  "if  I  had  continued  here,  I  should 
have  been   destroyed.      So   the    third    maxim   hath   alsc 


180  OE3TA   ROMANORUM. 

preserved  me."  But  the  old  man  and  hie  wife,  with  tb.< 
whole  of  their  family,  were  crucified.  The  emperor  re- 
tained  the  three  maxima  in  memory  during  life,  and  ended 
hie  days  in  peace.  (9) 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  ia  any  good  Christian ;  the 

Sorter  is  free  will.  The  merchant  represents  our  lord 
esus  Christ.  The  florins  are  virtues,  and  the  maiim 
received  for  them  are  the  grace  and  favour  of  God.  The 
highway  is  the  ten  cf)  mm  and  merits  ;  the  byway,  a  UA 
life ;  those  who  lay  in  ambush  are  heretics.  The  <M 
man  is  the  world,  and  his  wife  is  vanity.  The  con- 
spirators are  devils. 


OF  THE   REMEMBRANCE  OF  BENEFITS. 

There  was  a  knight  who  devoted  much  of  his  t 
hunting.  It  happened  one  day,  as  he  was  pursuii 
diversion,  that  he  was  met  by  a  lame  lion,  who  showi 
his  foot.  The  knight  dismounted,  and  drew  from  it  a  tt 
thorn;  and  then  applied  an  unguent  to  the  wound,  wl 
npcudily  healed  it.  A  while  after  this,  the  king  of  «w 
etiimtry  hunted  in  the  same  wood,  and  caught  that  lion, 
and  held  him  captive  for  many  years.  Now,  the  knight. 
having  offended  the  king,  fled  from  his  anger  to  the  verj 
forest  in  which  he  hail  been  accustomed  to  hunt.  There 
he  lietook  himself  to  plunder,  and  spoiled  and  slow  * 
multitude  of  travellers.  But  the  king's  sufferance  *w 
exhausted  ;  ho  sent  out  an  army,  captured, and  «mdenm&l 
him  to  be  delivered  to  a  fasting  lion.  The  knight  wu 
aceerdiugly  thrown  into  n  pit,  and  remained  in  terrified 
expectation  of  the  hour  when  he  should  1«  devoured.  But 
the  lion,  considering  him  itltentively,  and  remembering  hi» 
former  friend,  fawned  upon  him  ;  and  remained  seven  day» 
with  him  destitute  of  food.     When  this  reached  the  e»ti 


MERANCE   OF   BENEFITS. 


1K1 


of  the  king,  he  was  struck  with  wonder,  and  directed  the 
knight  to  be  taken  from  the  pit.  "  Friend,"  said  he,  "  by 
what  means  have  you  been  able  to  render  the  lion  harm- 
less?" "As  I  once  rode  along  the  forest,  my  lord,  that 
lion  met  me  lame.  I  extracted  from  his  foot  a  large  thorn, 
and  afterwards  healed  the  wound,  and  therefore  he  has 
spared  me."  "  Well,"  returned  the  king,  "  since  the  lion 
has  spared  you,  I  will  for  this  time  ratify  your  pardon. 
Study  to  amend  your  life."  The  knight  gave  thanks  to 
the  king,  and  ever  afterwards  coniluotcil  hiinsidf  with  all 
propriety.  He  lived  to  a  good  old  age,  and  ended  his 
days  in  peace.' 

»  "  The  learned  reader  must  immediately  recollect  a  similar  story 
of  one  Anciroclu-.  wbu  bii:m-  ■.■.vpi-sr.-tl  v-  li_-;ii  m-ii-ii  v.ild  beasts  in  the 
Roman  amphitheatre,  is  recognized,  and  uiiat  tacked  by  a  savage  lieu, 
whom  he  had  formerly  healed  exactly  in  Die  stinc  manner.  But  I 
believe  the  whole  is  nothing  more  than  an  oriental  apologue  on  grati- 
tude, written  much  earlier;  nijd  Dial  il  here  exists  in  its  original 
state.  AndrocliH's  ti-iny  is  related  by  Autiis  ». - . . I ! i  1 1 r ,  on  the  authority 
of  a  Greek  writer,  one  Appion,  Balled  PUxtontoet,  who  flourished 
under  Tiberius.  The  character  of  .Npniuii.  v.  itli  winch  Gellius  prefaces 
this  tale,  in  some  measure  invalidates  his  credit;  n^twitlistandin^ 
he  pretends  to  have  been  an  eye-witness  of  this  extraordinary  fai-t. 
'Ejus  libri,'  says  Gelliua,  'con  inoelebres  feruntur;  quibus  omnium 
ferme  qua;  nn'rii;.-,!  its  .-Keyjitn  vi-.iint.nr  :ii!diitiL[i;r-.|iie.  hislnria  compre- 
henditur.  Bed  in  bis  qu*e  audivisse  et  K-gisse  sese  dieit,  fortasse  a 
vitio  Btudioque  ostentatit'int  lit  luijunfi-r.'  A*:.1  Had  our  compiler  of 
the  Gesta  taken  tbis  story  from  Gellius,  it  is  probable  be  would  have 
told  it  with  some  of  the  same  circumstances  ;  especially  as  Gellius  is 
■  writer  whom  he  frequently  follows,  and  even  quotes ;  and  to  whom, 
on  this  occasion,  he  might  have  been  obliged  for  a  few  more  strokes  of 
the  marvellous.  But  the  two  writers  aim  <■  only  in  the  general  subject. 
Our  compiler's  narrative  has  much  more  simplicity  than  that  of 
Gelliua;  and  contains  marks  of  Eastern  manners  and  life.  Let  me 
add  that  the  oriental  fabulists  are  fond  of  illustrating  and  enforcing 
the  duty  of  gratitude,  by  feigning  instance:'  <>\'  Die  c.  latitude  of  bea.-ts 
towards  men.  And  of  Ibis  the  present  compilation,  mhidi  i/  nituinjti/ 
tinctured  mitt  orimtaUma,  affords  several  other  proofs." — Wahton. 
Warton  is  clearly  correct  ia  his  idea  of  the  oriental  origin  of  this 
xilogue.    It  also  occurs  in  JEsop's  fables,  but  be  has  not  noticed 


E* 


185!  GESTA  R01IAN0BUM. 

APPLICATION. 

I  My  beloved,  the  knight  is  the  world  ;  the  lame  lion 

the  human  race  ;  the  thorn,  original  sin,  drawn  ont 
baptism.      The  pit   represents   penitence,  whence  safe 
is  derived. 
- 


The  Emperor  Theodosiiis  had  the  misfortune  to  lose  hi* 
eight.  He  put  Tip  a  hell  in  his  palace ;  and  the  Ian-  «"tut, 
that  whoever  had  any  suit  to  make  should  pull  tie 
string  with  his  own  hands.  When  the  bell  rang,  a  judge. 
ji  I 'pointed  to  this  end.  descended  and  administered  justi* 
It  chanced  that  a  serpent  made  her  nest  iinnifciliai' ,}' 
under  the  bell-rope,  and  in  due  time  brought  firth  young. 
When  they  were  old  enough,  one  day  she  conduct wl  (kin 
forth  to  enjoy  the  fresh  air  beyond  the  city.  Now,  while 
the  serpent  was  absent,  a  toad  entered  and  occupied  ;":r 
nest.  When,  therefore,  the  former  returned  with  h* 
young,  she  found  the  toad  in  possession,  and  instantlr 
began  an  attack.  But  the  latter  baffled  her  attempts,  «d^ 
obstinately  maintained  his  station.  The  serpent,  per- 
ceiving her  inability  to  eject  the  intruder,  coiloJ  her 
tail  around  the  boll-rope,  and  forcibly  rang  the  Ml' 
as  though  she  had  said,  "  Descend,  judge,  and  give  a« 
justice;  for  the  toad  has  wrongfully  seized  my  D* 
The  judge,  hearing  the  hell,  descended;  but  not  seeinE 
any  one,  returned.  The  serpent,  finding  her  design  abor- 
tive, once  more  sounded  the  alarm.  The  judge  again 
appeared,  and  upon  this  occasion,  seeing  the  serpen* 
attached  to  the  bell-rope,  and  the  toad  in  possession  of  he' 
nest,  declared  the  whole  circumstance  to  the  emperor 
"Go  down,  my  lord,"  said  the  latter,  "and  not  only  dm' 
away  the  toad,  but  kill  him ;  let  the  serpent  possess  he 
right."    All  which  was  done.     On  a  subsequent  day,  as  ta 


OF   THE  VICISSITUDE    OF   EVERYTHING    GOOD.     1S3 

king  lay  in  his  bed,  the  serpent  entered  the  bed-chamber 
carrying  a  precious  atone  in  her  mouth.  The  servants, 
perceiving  this,  informed  the  emperor,  who  gave  directions 
that  they  should  not  harm  it ;  "  for,"  added  he,  "  it  will  do 
me  no  injury."  The  serpent,  gliding  along,  ascended  the 
bed,  and  approaching  the  emperor's  eyes,  let  the  stone  fall 
upon  them,  and  immediately  left  the  room.  No  sooner, 
however,  had  the  stone  touched  the  eyes  than  their  sight 
was  completely  restored.  Infinitely  rejoiced  at  what  had 
happened,  the  emperor  made  inquiry  after  the  serpeut, 
but  it  was  not  heard  of  again.  lie  carefully  treasured 
this  invaluable  stone,  and  ended  his  days  in  peace.* 


4PPL1CATI0N. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  any  vorldly-minded  man 
who  is  blind  to  spiritual  affairs.  The  bell  is  the  tongue 
of  a  preacher;  the  cord  is  the  Bible.  The  serpent  is  a 
wise  confessor,  who  brings  forth  young — that  is,  good 
works.  But  prelates  and  confessors  are  often  timid  and 
negligent,  and  follow  earthly  more  than  heavenly  matters  ■ 
and  then  the  toad,  which  is  tlio  devil,  occupies  their  place 
The  serpent  carries  a  stone — and  the  confeBsor  the  Sacred 
Writings,  which  alone  are  able  to  give  sight  to  the  blind. 

*  ,; This  circumstance  of  the  Bill  of  J  uttoe  Mow)  in  the  real 
history  of  soii'm;  Hii-trm  iiiomircli,  «  lio.-i?  11,11m;  I.  Lave  forgot. 

"In  the  Arabian  philosophy,  st'i- pools,  villus  from  the  brightness 
of  their  eyes,  or  U'caiiso  they  iidmHt  :1m-  .'.l\  iiios  of  the  earth,  were 
considered  as  having  a  natural,  or  occult,  conniption  with  previous 
etones.  In  Alphonsns's  Ci.kiucai.is  Disci  i'J.ina,  a  snake  is  mentioned, 
whose  eyes  wore  real  jacinths.  In  Aliiaudiri'?  romantic  history,  he 
is  said  to  have  found  serpt-iitr"  in  flu,  vuh-  of  Jordian.  with  collars  of 
huge  emeraJda  growing  on  their  necks  The  toad,  under  a  vulgar 
in.lLS'.'riiiiiii:iiiii_-  idm,  if  rankod  with  I  ho  rtutilo  raco  :  and  JShakspearo 
has  a  beautiful  comparison  ,,ti  tijt-  t-rii'!iti..iiian-  notion  that  the  toad 
haa  n  rich  gem  iuclusod  witliin  its  hoad.  Milton  givoa  his  serpent 
oyi.'S  of  ourbuuclo  ( ['ur-flif:  Lust,  is.  oi'i'i  "      WaiM'B. 

fThe  "  Eastern  monarch"  of  whom  Wu.rton  was  thinking  ia 
J  e  han  jeer. — En  ,] 


CESTA    ROMANORL'M. 


OF  THE  DECEITS   OF  THE   DEVIL. 

There  wore  once  three  friends,  who  agreed  to  make  a 
pilgrimage  together.  It  happened  that  their  provisions 
fell  short,  and  having  but  one  loaf  between  them,  they 
were  nearly  famished.  "  Should  this  loaf,"  they  said  to 
each  other,  "be  divided  amongst  us,  there  will  not  be 
enough  for  any  one.  Let  us  then  take  counsel  together, 
and  consider  how  the  bread  is  to  be  disposed  of."  "  Sup- 
pose we  sleep  upon  the  way,"  replied  one  of  them  ;  "  and 
whosoever  hath  the  most  wonderful  dream  shall  possess 
the  loaf?"  The  other  two  acquiesced,  and  settled  them- 
selves to  sleep.  But  he  who  gave  the  advice  arose  while 
they  were  sleeping  and  eat  up  the  bread,  not  leaving  a 
single  crumb  for  his  companions.  When  he  had  finished 
he  awoke  them.  "  Get  up  quickly,"  said  he,  "  and  tell  us 
your  dreams."  "  My  friends,"  answered  the  first,  "  I  have 
had  a  very  marvellous  vision.  A  golden  ladder  reached 
up  to  heaven,  by  which  angels  ascended  and  descended. 
They  took  my  soul  from  my  body,  and  conveyed  it  to  that 
blessed  place,  where  I  beheld  the  Holy  Trinity,  and  where 
I  experienced  such  an  overflow  of  joy  as  eye  hath  not 
seen  nor  ear  heard.  This  is  my  dream,"  "And  I,"  said 
the  second,  "  beheld  tho  devils  with  iron  instruments,  by 
which  they  dragged  my  soul  from  the  body,  and  plunging 
it  into  hell  flames,  moat  grievously  tormented  me,  saying, 
'  As  long  as  God  reigns  in  heaven  this  will  be  your  por- 
tion.' "  "  Now  then,"  said  the  third,  who  had  eaten  the 
bread,  "hear  my  dream.  It  appeared  as  if  an  angel  came 
and  addressed  me  in  the  following  manner : — '  My  friend, 
would  you  see  what  is  become  of  your  companions?'  I 
answered,  'Yes,  Lord.  We  have  but  one  loaf  between  us, 
and  I  fear  that  they  have  run  off  with  it.'  '  You  are 
mistaken,'  he  rejoined,  '  it  lies  beside  us :  follow  me.'  He 
immmediately  led  me  to  the  gate  of  heaven,  and  by  his 
command  I  put  in  my  head  and  saw  you ;  and  I  thought 
that  you  wero  snatched  up  into  heaven  and  sat  upon  a 
throne  of  gold,  while  rich  wines  and  delicate  meats  stood 


OF  REMEMBERING  DEATH. 

tomtd  you.     Then  said  the  angel,  '  Your  companion,  you 
We,  has  an  abundance  of  good  things,  and  dwelb  in  »11 
Treasures,     There  he  will  remain  for  ever;   for  he  has 
catered  the  celestial  kingdom,  and  cannot  return.     Come 
*ww  where  your  other  associate  is  placed.'     I  followed,  and 
he  led  me  to  hell-gates,  where  I  beheld  you  in  torment,  as 
_you  just  now  said.     Tet  they  furnished  yon,  even  there, 
"with  bread   and  wine  in  abundance.     I   expressed  my 
eurrow  at  seeing  you  in  misery,  and  yoa  replied,  '  As  long 
»s  God  reigns  in  heaven  here  1  must  remain,  for  I  have 
merited  it.     Do  you  then  rise  np  quickly  and  eat  up  all 
the  bread,  since  you  will  see  neither  me  nor  my  com- 
panion again.'     I  complied  with  your  wishes,  arose,  and 
«at  the  bread."  * 


AmjCATIOS. 

My  beloved,  the  Saracens  and  Jews,  the  rich  and 
powerful,  and,  finallv,  the  perfect  among  men,  are  typified 
t>y  the  three  companions.  The  bread  represents  the  king- 
dom of  heaven. 


TALE    CVII. 

OF  REMEMBERING  DEATH,  AND  FORGETTING  THJKGS 
TEMPORAL. 

...E  was  an  image  in  the  city  of  Rome  standing  in  an 
A  posture,  with  the  dexter  hand  outstretched ;  and 
u  the  middle  finger  was  written,  ■•  Steike  hkck."  The 
;e  stood  a  long  time  in  this  manner,  and  no  one  under  - 
1  what  the  inscription  signified.  It  was  much  wou- 
1  at,  and  commented  on ;  bat  this  was  all,  for  they 
invariably  departed  as  wise  as  they  came.  At  last,  a 
certain  subtle  clerk,  hearing  of  the  image,  felt  snxioua 
to  set  it ;  and  when  be  had  dune  so,  he  observed  the  super- 


*  "  lUl  _;■.:  .--■   . 


b  AlpionHu.™ — Vunv*. 


I 


■ 


18G  GESTA    B0S1AX0PXM. 

seription,  "Strike  here."  lie  noticed  that  when  the  sun 
shone  upon  the  imago,  the  outstretched  finger  was  dis- 
cernible in  the  lengthened  shadow.  After  a  little  con- 
sideration he  took  a  spade,  and  where  the  shadow  ceased, 
dug  to  the  depth  of  about  three  feet.  This  brought  him 
to  a  number  of  steps,  which  led  into  a  subterranean  cavity. 
Not  a  little  exhilarated  with  his  discovery,  the  clerk  prose- 
cuted the  adventure.  Descending  the  steps,  he  entered 
the  hall  of  a  magnificent  palace,  in  which  he  perceived  a 
king  and  a  queen  and  many  nobles  seated  at  table,  and 
the  hall  itself  filled  with  men.  They  were  all  habited  in 
costly  apparel,  and  kept  the  most  rigid  silence.  Looking 
about,  he  beheld  in  one  corner  of  the  place  a  polished 
stone,  called  a  carbuncle,  by  the  single  aid  of  which  the 
hall  was  lighted.  In  the  opposite  corner  stood  a  man 
armed  with  a  bow  and  arrow,  in  the  act  of  taking  aim 
at  the  precious  stone.  Upon  hiB  brow  was  inscribed,  "  I 
am  what  I  am :  my  shaft  is  inevitable ;  least  of  all  can  yon 
luminous  carbuncle  escape  its  stroke."  The  clerk,  amazed 
at  what  he  saw,  entered  the  bed-chamber,  and  found  a 
multitude  of  beautiful  women  arrayed  in  purple  garments, 
but  not  a  sound  escaped  them.  From  thence  he  proceeded 
to  the  stables,  and  oliserved  a  number  of  horses  and  asses 
in  their  stalls.  He  touched  them,  but  they  were  nothing 
but  stone.  He  visited  all  the  various  buildings  of  the 
palace,  and  whatsoever  his  heart  desired  was  to  be  found 
there.  Returning  to  the  hall,  ho  thought  of  making  good 
his  retreat.  "  I  have  seen  wonders  to-day,"  said  he  to 
himself,  "  hut  nobody  will  credit  the  relation,  unless  I 
carry  back  with  me  some  incontrovertible  testimony." 
Casting  his  eyes  upon  the  highest  table,  he  beheld  a 
quantity  of  golden  cups  and  beautiful  knives,  which  he 
approached,  and  laid  his  hands  upon  one  of  each,  designing 
to  carry  them  away.  But  no  sooner  had  he  placed  them 
in  his  bosom,  than  the  archer  struck  the  carbuncle 
with  the  arrow,  and  shivered  it  into  a  thousand  atoms. 
Instantly,  the  whole  building  was  enveloped  in  thick 
darkness,  and  the  clerk,  in  utter  consternation,  sought 
his  way  back.  But  being  unable,  in  consequence  of  the 
darkness,  to  discover  it,  he  perished  in  the  greatest  misery, 
amid  the  mysterious  statues  of  the  palace.  (10) 


I 


OF  CONSTANCY  IK   ADHERING   TO  PROMISES.      1S7 


My  beloved,  the  image  is  the  devil ;  the  clerk  i 
covetous  man,  who  sacrifices  himself  to  the  cupidity  of  hia 
desires.  The  steps  by  which  he  descends  are  the  pas- 
sions. The  archer  is  death,  the  carbuncle  is  human  life, 
and  the  cup  and  knife  are  worldly  possessions. 


TALE  CVIII. 


OF    CONSTANCY    IN   ADHERING   TO    PROMISES. 

In  the  reign  of  a  certain  emperor,  there  were  two  thieves 
who  bound  themselves  by  an  oath  never  to  quit  one 
another  on  any  emergency,  even  though  death  were  the 
alternative.  They  afterwards  committed  many  depreda- 
tions, and  were,  on  some  occasions,  guilty  of  murder.  It 
happened  that  one  of  them,  ]><;it>jr  ciiiight  in  some  theft, 
was  imprisoned  unil  placed  in  fetters.  His  companion, 
understanding  what  had  chanced,  hastened  to  him,  and 
said,  "  My  friend,  by  the  engagement  which  we  have 
formed,  I  adjure  you  to  tell  me  what  I  can  do  to  serve 
you."  "It  appears,"  answered  the  other,  "that  I  must 
die,  having  been  taken  in  the  fact  for  which  I  am  sen- 
tenced. But  I  will  show  you  how  to  oblige  me.  Obtain 
permission  to  remain  in  my  place,  while  I  hasten  to 
arrange  my  affairs,  and  provide  for  my  wife  and  children. 
Having  done  this,  I  will  return  in  due  time  and  liberate 
you."  "  My  friend,"  answered  the  first,  "  I  will  readily 
comply  with  your  wishes."  He  went  therefore  to  the 
judge,  and  spoke  thus:  "My  lord,  my  friend  has  been 
thrown  into  prison,  and  condemned  to  death.  It  seems 
that  there  is  no  chance  for  him  ;  let  it  please  you,  then, 
to  permit  him  to  return  home  to  arrange  the  affairs  of  his 
family,  and  I,  in  the  mean  time,  will  beoome  his  surety, 
and  remain  in  prison."  "On  such  a  day,"  replied  the 
judge,  "  he,  with  some  others,  will  be  executed ;  if,  upon 
that  day,  he  return  not  before  a  certain  hour,  look  you 


188  GESTA  SOMANOEUM. 

to  it:  your  death  is  inevitable."  "My  lord,"  answered 
the  man,  "  I  am  prepared  for  the  worst."  "  Let  him  go, 
then :  I  consent  to  your  wishes."  The  judge  ordered  the 
substitute  to  be  ironed,  and  placed  in  prison  in  the  room 
of  his  friend,  who  immediately  set  out  to  his  family.  So 
long,  however,  did  ho  postpone  his  return,  that  the  day  of 
execution  arrived,  and  his  pledge  was  unredeemed.  The 
latter,  therefore,  was  brought,  with  many  others,  to  tho 
seat  of  judgment.  "Where  is  your  friend?"  said  the  judge; 
"he  has  not  arrived  to  make  good  his  word."  "I  hope 
the  best,  my  lord,"  replied  the  other;  "  I  do  not  think  he 
will  fail  me."  Some  time  passod  over,  and  still  he  came 
not ;  and  tho  prisoner  was  at  length  conducted  to  the 
cross.  "  You  must  attribute  your  death  to  yourself,"  said 
the  judge ;  "  do  not  charge  it  upon  me.  Ton  have  rashly 
trusted  to  your  friend,  and  he  has  deceived  you."  "  My 
lord,"  replied  he,  "defer  the  crucifixion  but  for  a.  moment, 
and  suffer  me  to  play  upon  an  instrument  three  timet* 
before  my  death."  "  Play !  "  exclaimed  the  judge ;  "  of 
what  nature  is  that  playing?"  "I  will  shout,  my  lord." 
"  As  you  please."  Accordingly  he  began  to  vociferate. 
He  shouted  loudly  once,  twice,  and  at  the  third  shout  he 
distinguished,  at  some  distance,  a  man  running  toward 
them  with  surprising  velocity.  "  My  lord !  my  lord ! 
there  is  a  man  coming;  stay  the  execution — perhaps  it  is 
my  friend,  and  I  shall  yet  be  liberated ! "  The  judge 
waited,  and  the  person  they  looked  for  made  his  appear- 
ance. "I  am  the  man  you  expect,"  he  exclaimed.  "I 
have  arranged  my  affairs,  and  meanwhile  my  friend  has 
been  in  peril  of  death  For  me ;  let  him  now  freely  depart, 
for  I  am  ready  to  suffer  death  for  my  crimes."  The  judge 
regarded  him  for  a  few  moments  with  attention,  and  then 
said,  "My  friend,  tell  me  whence  it  comes  that  you 
are  so  faithful  to  one  another?"  "My lord,"  he  replied, 
"  from  our  youth  up  we  have  been   friends,  and  ever 

Eledged  ourselves  to  be  faithful.  For  this  reason  he  put 
imself  in  my  place  till  I  had  settled  my  affairs."  "  Well," 
said  the  judge,  "  because  of  this  remarkable  instance  of 
fidelity,  I  pardon  you.  Remain  with  me,  and  I  will  pro- 
vide all  things  necessary  for  your  well-being."  They 
returned  thanks  to  the  judge,  and  promised  equal  fidelity 


OF  THE  PURSUIT  OF   RICHES. 


Ie  then  received  them  to  favour ;  and  all  praised 
who  showed  them  this  mercy.* 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God  ;  the  two  thieves,  soul 
and  body,  which  «re  united  in  sin.  The  thief  who  is 
taken  is  the  body  captured  by  its  lusts.  The  first  shout 
typifies  contrition,  the  second,  confession,  and  the  third 
satisfaction. 


A  certain  carpenter  residing  in  a  city  near  the  sea,  very 
covetous  and  very  wicked,  collected  a  large  sura  of  money, 
and  placed  it  in  the  trunk  of  a  tree,f  which  he  placed  by 
his  fireside,  that  no  one  might  have  any  suspicion  that  it 
held  money.  It  happened  once  that,  while  all  his  household 
slept,  the  soa  overflowed  its  boundaries,  broke  down  that 
side  of  the  building  where  the  log  was  situated,  and  carried 
it  away.  It  floated  many  miles,  and  reached,  at  length, 
a  city  in  which  there  lived  a  person  who  kept  open  house. 
Arising  early  in  the  morning,  he  perceived  the  trunk  of 
a  tree  in  the  water,  and  brought  it  to  land,  thinking  it 
was  nothing  but  a  bit  of  timber  thrown  away  by  some 
one.  He  was  a  liberal,  kind-hearted  man,  and  a  great 
benefactor  to  the  poor.  It  one  day  ohanced  that  he  enter- 
tained some  pilgrims  in  his  house  ;  and  the  weather  being 
extremely  cold,  he  cut  up  the  log  for  firewood.  When  he 
had  struck  two  or  three  blows  with  the  axe,  he  heard 
a  rattling  sound ;  and  cleaving  it  in  twain,  the  gold  pieces 

*  This  appears  to  be  the  classical  stnry  of  Damon  and  Pythias, 
with  a  few  inconsiderable  variations.  From  hence,  or  from  similar 
stories,  may  probably  have  arisen  the  proverbial  saying  of  "  Honour 
among  thieves." 

'Vartoii  calls  it  a  client. 


■ 


190 


GESTA   ROMANU HUM. 


rolled  out  in  every  direction.  Greatly  rejoiced  at  the 
discovery,  lie  reposited  thera  in  a  secure  place,  until  he 
Bhould  ascertain  who  was  the  owner. 

Now,  the  carpenter,  bitterly  lamenting  the  loss  of  hie 
money,  travelled  from  place  to  place  in  pursuit  of  it.  He 
came,  by  accident,  to  the  house  of  the  hospitable  man,  who 
had  found  the  trunk.  He  failed  not  to  mention  the  object 
of  his  search  ;  and  the  host,  understanding  that  the  money 
was  his,  said  to  himself,  "  I  will  prove,  if  God  will,  that 
the  money  should  be  returned  to  him."  Accordingly,  he 
made  three  cakes,  the  first  of  which  he  filled  with  earth; 
the  second,  with  the  bones  of  dead  men ;  and  in  the  third, 
he  put  a  quantity  of  the  gold  which  he  had  discovered  in 
the  trunk.  "  Friend,"  said  he,  addressing  the  carpenter, 
"  we  will  eat  three  cakes,  composed  of  the  beat  meat  in 
the  house.  Choose  which  you  will  have."  The  carpenter 
did  as  he  was  directed  ;  he  took  the  cakes  and  weighed 
them  in  his  hand,  one  after  another,  and  finding  that  with 
the  earth  weigh  heaviest,  he  chose  it.  "  And  if  I  want 
more,  my  worthy  host,"  added  he,  "I  will  have  that." 
laying  his  hand  upon  the  cake  containing  the  bones. 
"  You  may  keep  the  third  cake  yourself."  "  I  see  clearly," 
murmured  the  host,  "  I  see  very  clearly  that  God  does  not 
will  the  money  to  bo  restored  to  this  wretched  man." 
Calling,  therefore,  the  poor  and  infirm,  the  blind  and  the 
lame,  and  opening  the  cake  of  gold  in  the  presence  of  the 
carpenter,  to  whom  he  spoke,  "Thou  miserable  varlet, 
this  is  thine  own  gold.  But  thou  preferredst  the  cake  of 
earth,  and  dead  men's  tionos.  I  am  persuaded,  therefore, 
that  God  wills  not  that  I  return  thee  thy  money  " — with- 
out delay,  he  distill.iut.cd  the  whole  amongst  the  paupers, 
and  drove  the  carpenter  away  in  groat  tribulation.  (11) 


My  beloved,  the  carpenter  is  any  worldly-minded 
the  trunk  of  the  tree  denotes  the  human  heart,  filled  with 
the  riches  of  this  life.  The  host  is  a  wise  confessor.  The 
cake  of  earth  is  the  world  ;  that  of  the  bones  of  dead  men 
s  the  flesh;  and  that  of  gold  ia  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 


; 


OF   THE    MIRACULOUS    P.KCALI.    OF    SINNERS. 


OF  THE-  MIRACULOUS  RECALL  OF  SINNERS,  AND  OF 
THE  CONSOLATIONS  WHICH  PIETY  OFFERS  TO  THE 
DISTRESSED. 

In  the  reign  of  Trajan  there  lived  a  knight  named  Placidus,* 
who  was  conimanrior-iji-eliief  of  the  emperor's  armies.  He 
was  of  a  very  merciful  disposition,  but  a  worshipper  of 
idola.  His  wife  also  participated  in  the  same  feelings, 
and  adhered  to  the  same  religious  rites.  They  had  two 
bods,  educated  in  all  the  magnificence  of  their  age  and 
station;  and  from  the  general  kindness  and  goodness  of 
their  hearts,  they  merited  a  revelation  of  the  way  of  truth. 
Aa  he  was  one  day  following  the  chase,  he  discovered  a 
herd  of  deer,  amongst  which  was  one  remarkable  for  the 
beauty  and  magnitude  of  its  form.  Separating  itself  from 
the  rest,  it  plunged  into  the  thicker  part  of  the  brake. 
While  the  hunters,  therefore,  occupied  themselves  with 
the  remainder  of  the  herd,  Placidus  gave  his  attention  to 
the  noble  animal  in  question,  and  followed  the  course  it 
had  taken  with  all  the  celerity  in  his  power.  While  he 
was  giving  all  his  strength  to  the  pursuit,  the  stag  at 
length  scaled  a  lofty  precipice,  and  Placidus,  approaching 
as  near  to  it  as  he  could,  considered  by  what  means  it 
might  be  secured.  But  as  he  regarded  it  with  fixed  atten- 
tion, there  appeared,  impressed  upon  the  centre  of  the 
brow,  the  form  of  the  cross,  which  glittered  with  greater 
splendour  than  a  meridian  sun.  Upon  this  cross  an  image 
of  Jesus  Christ  was  suspended  (12);  and  as  formerly  hap- 
pended  to  the  ass  of  Balaam,  utterance  was  supplied  to 
the  stag,  which  thus  addressed  the  hunter  :  "  Why  dost 
thou  persecute  me,  Placidus  ?  For  thy  sake  have  I  assumed 
theBhapeof  this  animal:  lam  Christ  win 'in  thou  ignorantly 
worship]) est.  Thine  alms  have  gone  up  before  Me,  and 
thereforo  I  come,  that  as  thou  hast  hunted  this  stag,  so 
may  I  hunt  thee."  Some  indeed  assert  that  the  image, 
hanging  between  the  deer's  antlers,  said  those  things. 
•  »  Sir  Plaeidoa  is  the  name  of  a  knight  iu  tlie  Faerie  Qi 


192 


GE3TA  ROMANORUSl. 


- 

However  that  may  be,  PlaoidnB,  filled  with  terror,  Fell 
from  his  horse ;  and  in  about  an  hour  returning  to  himself, 
arose  from  the  earth  and  said,  ''Declare  what  Thou  sayest, 
that  I  may  believe  in  Thee."  "  I  am  Christ,  0  Placidus  ! 
I  created  heaven  and  earth ;  I  caused  the  light  to  arise, 
and  divided  it  from  the  darkness.  I  appointed  days,  and 
seasons,  and  years.  I  formed  man  out  of  the  dust  of  the 
earth ;  and  I  became  incarnate  for  the  salvation  of  man- 
kind. I  was  crucified,  and  buried;  and  on  the  third  day 
1  rose  again."  When  Placidus  heard  this,  he  fell  again 
upon  the  earth,  and  exclaimed,  "I  believe,  0  Lord,  that 
Thou  art  He  that  made  all  things :  and  that  Thou  art  He 
who  bringest  back  the  wanderer."  The  Lord  answered, 
"If  thou  believest  this,  go  into  the  city  and  be  baptized." 

"  Wouldat  Thou,  0  Lord,  that  I  impart  what  has 
liefallen  me  to  my  wife  and  children,  that  they  also  may 
believe?" 

"  Do  so ;  tell  them  that  they  also  may  be  cleansed 
from  their  iniquities.  And  do  you,  on  the  morrow,  return 
hither,  where  I  will  appear  again,  and  show  you  more 
fully  of  the  future." 

Placidns,  therefore,  departed  to  his  own  home,  and 
communitiitud  all  that  had  passed  to  his  wife.  But  she, 
too,  had  had  a  revelation  ;  and  in  like  manner  had  been 
enjoined  to  believe  in  Christ,  together  with  her  children. 
Mo  they  hastened  at  midnight  to  the  bishop  of  the  city  of 
liome,  where  they  were  entertained  and  baptized  with 
great  joy.  Placidus  was  called  Eustacius,  and  hia  wife, 
Theoshyta ;  the  two  sons,  Theosbytus  and  Agapetus.  In 
the  morning  Eustacius,  according  to  custom,  went  out  to 
hunt,  and  coming  with  his  attendants  near  the  place,  he 
dispersed  them,  as  if  for  the  purpose  of  discovering  the 
prey.  Immediately  the  vision  of  yesterday  reappeared, 
and  prostrating  himself,  he  said,  "  I  implore  Thee,  0  Lord, 
to  make  clear  what  Thuu  didst  promise  to  Thy  servant." 

"Blessed  art  thou,  Eustacius,  because  thou  hast  re- 
ceived the  laver  of  My  grace,  and  thereby  overcome  the 
devil.  Now  hast  thou  trod  him  to  dust  who  beguiled 
thee.  Now  will  thy  fidelity  appeal  ;  for  the  devil,  whom 
thou  liiist  deserted,  is  arming  himself  uirfiiust  thee  in  a 
variety  of  ways.     Much  must   thou  undergo  ere  thou 


OF   THE   MIRACULOUS    RECALL   OF    SINNERS. 


193 


crown  of  victory.  Much  must  thou  Buffer 
that  thou  mayst  be  humbled,  and  abandon  the  deep- 
seated  vanity  of  thia  world,  and  once  mora  be  raised  by 
spiritual  wealth.  Fail  not,  therefore,  nor  look  back  upon 
thy  former  condition.  Thou  must  demonstrate  thyself 
another  Job ;  but  from  the  very  depth  of  thy  humiliation, 
I  will  restoro  thee  to  the  summit  of  earthly  splendour. 
Choose,  then,  whether  thou  woiili.lsi.  prefer  thy  trials  now, 
or  at  the  conclusion  of  life."  Eustacius  replied,  "  If  it 
become  mo,  0  Lord,  to  he  exposed  to  trials,  let  them  pre- 
sently approach ;  but  do  Thou  uphold  me,  and  supply  me 
with  patient  fortitude." 

"Be  bold,  Eustacius;  My  graco  shall  support  your 
Bonis."  Saying  thus,  the  Lord  ascended  into  heaven. 
After  which  Eustacius  returned  home  to  his  wife,  and 
explained  to  her  what  had  been  decreed.  In  a  few  days 
a  pestilence  carried  off  the  whole  of  their  men-servants 
and  maid-servants ;  and  before  long  the  sheep,  horses, 
and  cattle  also  perished.  Robbers  plundered  their  habi- 
tation, and  despoiled  them  of  every  ornament;  while  he 
himself,  together  with  his  wife  and  sous,  tied  naked  and 
in  the  deopest  distress.  But  devoutly  they  worshipped 
God;  and,  apprehensive  of  an  Egyptian  redness  (13), 
went  secretly  away.  Thus  were  they  reduced  to 
utter  poverty.  The  king  and  the  Benate,  greatly  afflicted 
with  their  general's  calamities,  sought  for,  hut  found 
not  the  slightest  trace  of  him.  In  the  mean  time  this 
unhappy  family  approached  the  sea;  and  finding  a  ship 
ready  to  sail,  they  embarked  in  it.  The  master  of  the 
vessel  observing  that  the  wife  of  Eustacius  was  very 
beautiful,  determined  to  secure  her ;  and  when  they 
had  crossed  the  sea,  demanded  their  passage  money, 
which,  as  he  anticipated,  they  did  not  possess.  Notwith- 
standing the  vehement  and  indignant  prate  stations  of 
Eustacius,  ho  seized  upon  his  wife  ;  and,  beckoning  to  the 
mariners,  commanded  them  to  cast  the  unfortunate  hus- 
band headlong  into  the  sea.  Perceiving,  therefore,  that 
all  opposition  was  useless,  he  took  up  his  two  children, 
and  departed  with  much  and  heavy  sorrow.  "Alas  for 
me  and  for  you  I "  he  exclaimed,   as   he   wept   over  his 

saved  offspring ;  "  your  poor  mother  ia  \o&t,  ani  wv  » 


194  GESTA    EOMASORUM. 

strange  land,  in  the  arms  of  a  strange  lord,  must  It 
her  fate."  Travelling  along,  lie  came  to  a  river,  th 
water  of  which  ran  so  high  that  it  appeared  hazardous  iii 
an  eminent  degree  to  cross  with  both  the  children  at  tin 
same  time :  one,  therefore,  he  placed  carefully  upon  tlu 
liank,  and  then  passed  over  with  the  other  in  hie  arms. 
This  effected,  he  laid  it  upon  the  ground,  and  retmncd 
immediately  for  the  remaining  child.  But  in  trie  midst. 
of  the  river,  accidentally  glancing  hid  eye  back,  ho  beheld 
a  wolf  hastily  snatch  up  the  child,  and  run  with  it  into 
an  adjoining  wood.  Despairing  of  saving  it,  he  hastened 
to  the  other;  but  while  he  was  yet  at  some  distance,» 
huge  lion  approached  the  child  he  had  left,  and,  Beijing 
it,  presently  disappeared.  (14)  To  follow  was  useless, 
for  he  was  in  the  middle  of  the  water.  Giving  himself 
up,  therefore,  to  his  desperate  situation,  he  began  to 
lament  and  to  pluck  away  his  hair;  and  would  have  «it 
himself  into  the  stream  had  not  Divine  Providence  pre- 
served him. 

Certain  shepherds,  however,  observing  the  lion  carrying 
off  the  child  in  his  teeth,  pursued  him  with  dogs;  and  hj" 
the  peculiar  dispensation  of  Heaven  it  was  dropped  un- 
hurt. As  for  the  other,  some  ploughmen  witnessing  tho 
adventure,  shouted  lustily  after  the  wolf,  and  gaCMMW 
*  a  liberating  the  poor  victim  from  its  jaws.     Now,  it  hap- 


pened that  both  the  shepherd»  and  plough n 

the  same  village,  aud  brought  up  the  children  amonpl 

them.      But   Eustaeius   knew   nothing   of  this,  and  ni* 


affliction  was  so  poignant  that  ho  was  unable  to  control 
his  complaints.  "  Alas !  "  ho  would  say.  "  ouco  I  flourish»! 
like  a  luxuriant  tree,  hut  now  I  am  snipped  of  my  leave*. 
Once  1  was  encompassed  with  military  ensigns  aud  Uwl» 
of  armed  men;  now  |  am  a  single  l-cing  in  the  universe. 
I  have  lost  all  my  children,  and  everything  that  I 
possessed.  Rememlier,  0  Lord,  that  thou  saidat  mj 
trials  should  resemble  Job's ;  behold,  they  exceed  the* 
For,  although  he  was  destitute,  he  had  a  couch,  however 
vile,  to  repose  upon  ;  I,  alas !  have  nothing.  He  W 
compassionating  friends,  while  I  have  savage  beast*- 
who  have  carried  off  my  sons,  for  my  friends.  His  wif* 
remained,  but  mine  is  forcibly  carried  off.     Assuage  03 


OF   THE    MIIJAf'll.nlS    RECALL    OF   SIS-VF.RS. 


195 


anguish,  0  Lord !  ami  place  a  bridle  upon  my  lips,  lest  I 
utter  foolishness,  ami  1*  cast  away  from  before  Thy  face." 
With  such  words  he  gave  free  course  to  the  fulness  of  hit- 
heart;  and  after  much  travel  entered  a  village,  where  he 
abode.  In  this  place  he  continued  for  fifteen  years,  and 
tended  the  lambs  of  the  men  of  that  place  as  their  hired 
servant. 

To  return  to  the  two  boys.  They  were  educated  in  tin- 
same  neighbourhood,  hut  had  no  knowledge  that  they 
were  brothers.  And  as  for  the  wife  of  Eustaeius,  she  pre- 
served her  purity,  and  suffered  not  the  infamous  usage 
which  circumstances  led  her  to  apprehend.  Aftor  souje 
time  her  persecutor  died. 

In  the  mean  while  the  Roman  emperor  was  beset  by 
his  enemies,  and  recollecting  how  valiantly  PI  acid ub  hail 
behaved  himself  in  similar  straits,  his  grief  at  the  de- 
plorable mutation  of  fortune  was  renewed.  He  despatched 
soldiers  through  various  parts  of  the  world  in  pursuit  of 
them ;  and  promised  to  the  discoverer  infinite  rewards  and 
honours.  It  happened  that  somo  of  tho  emissaries,  being 
of  those  who  had  attended  upon  the  per.sun  of  I'Widus, 
came  into  the  country  in  which  he  laboured,  and  one  of 
them  he  recognized  by  his  gait.  The  sight  of  these  men 
brought  back  to  the  exile's  mind  the  situation  of  wealth 
and  honour  which  he  had  once  possessed  ;  and  being  filled 
with  fresh  trouble  at  the  recollection — -"0  Lord!"  he 
exclaimed,  -'even  as  beyond  expectation  I  have  seen  these 
people  again,  so  let  me  be  restored  to  my  beloved  wife. 
Of  my  children  I  speak  not  ;  for  I  know  too  well  that 
they  are  devoured  by  wild  beasts."  At  that  moment  a 
voice  whispered,  "  Be  faithful,  Eustaeius,  and  thou  wilt 
shortly  recover  thy  lost  honours,  and  again  look  upon  thy 
wife  and  offspring."  Now,  when  tho  soldiers  met  Placidus. 
they  knew  not  who  ho  was  ;  and  accosting  him,  they  asked 
if  he  were  acquainted  with  any  foreigner  named  Placidus, 
with  his  wife  and  two  sons.  He  replied  in  the  negative, 
but  requested  that  they  would  tarry  in  his  house.  They 
consented  ;  and  he  conducted  them  home,  and  waited  on 
them.  And  here,  as  before,  at  tho  recollection  of  his 
former  splendour,  his  tears  flowed.  Unable  to  contain 
himself,  he  went  out  of  doors,  and  when  he  Y\aA  -waibWiA 


aei. 


196  GESTA   ROMANOEUM. 

Lis  face  lie  re-entered,  and  continued  hie  service.*  By 
aud  by  the  appearance  of  their  ancient  master  underwent 
a  more  exact  scrutiny  ;  and  one  said  to  the  other.  "  Surely 
this  man  hears  great  resornblauoe  to  him  we  inquire 
after."  "  Of  a  truth,"  answered  his  companion,  "  you  say 
well.  Let  us  examine  if  he  possess  a  scar  on  his  head, 
which  ho  received  in  action."  They  did  so,  and  finding  a 
near  which  indicated  a  similar  wuuud,  they  leaped  nj  aiiJ 
embraced  him,  and  inquired  after  his  wife  and  sons,  He 
related  his  adventures;  and  the  neighbours,  coming  in. 
listened  with  wonder  to  the  account  delivered  by  the 
soldiers  of  his  military  achievements  and  former  mu- 
nificence. Then,  obeying  tho  command  of  the  emperor, 
they  clothed  him  in  sumptuous  apparel.  On  the  fiftieth 
day  they  reached  tho  imperial  court ;  and  the  emperor, 
apprized  of  his  coming,  went  out  to  meet  him,  and  Galuttd 
him  with  great  gladness.  Eustacius  related  all  that  had 
befallen  him ;  ho  was  thon  invested  with  tho  command  of 
the  army,  and  restored  to  eveiy  office  that  he  had  held 
prior  to  his  departure.  When  the  soldiers  were  numbered, 
they  were  found  to  be  too  few  to  meet  the  enemy.  He 
therefore  drew  together  from  all  parts  the  young  men  of 
the  country  ;  and  it  fell  in  the  lot  of  tho  village  where  hie 
own  children  were  educated,  to  send  two  to  the  army; 
and  these  very  youths  were  selected  by  the  inhabitants  a» 
the  best  and  bravest  of  their  number.  They  appeared 
before  the  general ;  and  their  elegant  manners,  united  lo 
a  singular  propriety  of  conduct,  won  his  esteem.  Hephwed 
them  in  the  van  of  his  troops,  and  began  hm  march 
against  the  enemy.  After  the  rout  of  the  foe.  he  caused 
his  army  to  lialt  tor  three  days  at  a  certain  place,  when). 
as  it  happened,  his  wife  was  living  in  poverty.  Strang* 
to  say,  the  sons  themselves,  in  the  general  distribution  of 
the  soldiers,  wero  quartered  with  their  own  mother,  hot 
all  the  while  ignorant  with  whom  they  were  stationed. 

About  mid-day  the  lads,  sitting  together,  related  th* 
various  mutations  to  which  their  infancy  had  been  subject; 
and  the  mother,  who  was  at  no  great  distance,  became  »° 
attentive  auditor.     "  Of  what  I  was,  while  a  child,"  w'° 


iS  picture  of  tho  olden  limps 


OF  THE   MIRACULOUS    RECALL   OF    SINNERS.        197 

the  elder  of  the  brothers,  "  I  remember  nothing,  except 
that  my  beloved  father  was  a  leader  of  a  company  of 
soldiers;  and  that  my  mother,  who  was  very  beautiful, 
had  two  sous,  of  whom  I  was  the  elder.  We  accompanied 
our  parents  from  the  habitation  in  which  we  had  con- 
stantly resided  during  the  night,  and  embarking  on  board 
a  vessel  that  immediately  put  to  sea,  sailed  I  know  not 
whither.  Our  mother  remained  i;i  llio  ship  but  where- 
fore, I  am  also  ignorant.  In  the  mean  time  our  father 
carried  my  brother  and  myself  in  his  arms,  and  me  he 
left  upon  the  nearer  bank  of  a  river,  until  ho  had  conveyed 
the  younger  of  us  across.  But  no  sooner  had  ho  accom- 
plished his  design,  and  was  returning  to  my  assistance, 
than  a  wolf  darted  from  a  thicket  and  bore  my  brother  off 
in  his  mouth.  Before  he  could  hasten  back  to  his  succour, 
a  prodigious  lion  seized  upon  me,  and  carried  me  into  a 
neighbouring  wood.  Certain  shepherds,  however,  delivered 
and  educated  rue  amongst  them,  as  you  know.  What  has 
become  of  my  father  and  my  brother.  I  know  not."  The 
younger  brother  here  buret  into  a  flood  of  tears,  and  ex- 
claimed, "  Surely  I  have  found  my  brother ;  for  they  who 
"brought  me  up  frequently  declared  that  I  was  emancipated 
from  the  jaws  of  a  wolf."  Then  did  they  exchange  em- 
braces and  shed  tears.  The  mother,  who  listened,  it  may 
he  well  supposed,  with  intense  interest  to  what  w:is  going 
forward,  felt  a  strong  conviction  that  they  were  her  own 
children.  She  wan  silent,  however;  and  the  next  day 
went  to  the  commander  of  the  forces,  and  entreated  per- 
mission to  go  into  her  own  country.  "  I  am  a  Roman 
woman,"  said  she,  "and  a  stranger  in  these  parts."  As 
she  uttered  these  words,  her  eye  fixed  with  an  earnest  and 
anxious  gaze  upon  the  countenance  of  him  she  addressed. 
It  was  her  husband,  whom  she  now  for  the  first  time  re- 
collected; and  she  threw  herself  at  his  feet  unable  to 
contain  her  joy.  "  My  lord."  cried  the  enraptured  matron, 
"  I  entreat  you  to  relate  some  c  iron  instances  of  your  past 
life- ;  for,  unless  I  greatly  mistake,  you  are  Placidus,  tho 
master  of  the  soldiery,  sinee  known  by  the  name  of  Eusta- 
ciiiH,  whom  our  blessed  Saviour  converted,  and  tried  by 
such  and  such  temptations  :  I  am  liis  wife,  taken  from  him 
at  sea  by  a  perfidious  wretch,  but  who  aiOCaavxi&faj&,  m& 


"■ 


ft 


198  GESTA    ROMANOBTJM. 

his  atrocious  purposes.  I  had  two  sons,  called  Agapetn* 
and  Theosbytus."  When  EuBtacfru  heard  this,  he  looked 
at  her  earnestly,  and  saw  that  it  was  his  wife.  Tier 
embraced  and  wept;  giving  glory  to  God,  who  brings  joy 
to  the  sorrowful.  The  wife  then  observed,  "My  fori 
what  has  become  of  our  children  ?  "  "  Alaa  !  "  replied  he. 
•'  they  were  carried  off  by  wild  beasts  ; "  and  he  repeated 
the  circumstance  of  their  loss.  "  Give  thanks,"  said  bii 
wife,  "  give  manifold  thauks  to  the  Lord ;  for  as  His 
Providence  hath  revealed  our  existence  to  each  othtr.so 
will  He  give  ns  back  our  beloved  offspring."  "Didluot 
tell  you,"  returned  he,  "  that  wild  beasts  had  devoured 

"  True ;  but  yesternight,  as  I  sat  in  the  garden,  1  over- 
heard two  young  men  relate  the  occurrences  of  their 
childhood,  and  whom  1  bcliove  to  be  our  eons.  Interrogate 
them,  and  they  will  tell  you." 

Messengers  worn  immediately  despatched  for  this  pW- 
pose,  and  a  few  questions  convinced  Enstacius  of  the  fall 
completion  of  his  happiness.  They  fell  upon  each  other'i 
necks  and  wept  aloud.  It  was  a  joyful  occanon  ;  and  the 
whole  army  rejoiced  at  their  being  found,  and  at  tie 
victory  over  the  barbarians.  Previous  to  their  return 
the  Emperor  Trajan  died,  and  was  succeeded  by  Adrian* 
more  wicked  even  than  his  predecessor."  However,  te 
received  the  conqueror  and  his  family  with  great  mag- 
nificence, and  sumptuously  entertained  them  at  his  o«n 
table.  But  the  day  following  the  emperor  would  have 
preceded  to  the  temple  of  his  idols  to  sacrifice,  in  conse- 
quence of  the  late  victory;  and  desired  his  guests  |" 
accompany  him.  " My  lord,"  said  Eustacius,  "I  worship 
the  God  of  the  Christians  ;  and  Him  only  do  I  nerve.  aw< 
propitiate  with  sacrifice."  The  emperor,  full  of  rage.pl*™ 
him,  witli  his  whole  family,  in  the  arena,  and  let  loc#  ' 
ferocious  lion  upon  them.  But  the  lion,  to  the  astoniaji- 
ment  of  all,  held  down  his  head  before  them,  as  if  f 
reverence,  and  humbly  went  from  them.  On  which  llj» 
emperor  ordered  a  brazen  bull  to  be  heated,  and  into  thi* 
his  victims  were  cast  alive  ;  but  with  prayer  and  suppli*" 

*  Neither  Trojan   nor  Adrian  deserve   this   ahsnieter;  tat*** 
former  is  vilely  slandered. 


r    VIGILANCE   IN   OCR   CALLING.  199 

tion  they  commended  themselves  to  the  mercy  of  God,  and 
three  days  after,  being  taken  out  of  the  furnace  in  the 
presence  of  the  emperor,  so  untouched  were  they  by  the 
fire  that  not  a  hair  of  their  heads  was  singed,  nor  had 
the  fiery  vapours  in  any  way  affected  thein.  The 
Christians  buried  their  corpses  in  the  most  honourable 
manner,  and  over  them  constructed  an  oratory.  They 
perished  in  the  first  year  of  Adrian,  a.d.  120,  in  the 
calends  of  November;  or,  as  sumo  write,  the  12th  of  the 
calends  of  October." 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ ;  Placidus,  any 
worldly-minded  man.  The  stags  are  the  senses.  The 
large  and  beautiful  stag  is  reason ;  it  ascends  a  precipice, 
which  is  justice  or  n.i'iinide.  The  horns  are  the  old  and 
new  law.  The  wife  of  Placidus  is  the  soul ;  the  two  sons 
are  the  will  and  the  works  of  man.  Tho  master  of  the 
ship  is  a  prelate,  who  would  detain  the  soul  from  error ; 
and  the  ship  is  the  Church.  The  river  is  the  world ;  the 
lion  is  the  devil  *  and  the  wolf,  the  flosh.  Tho  shepherds 
are  confessors  ;  and  the  ploughmen,  preachers.  The  mes- 
sengers sent  in  pursuit  of  Placidus  represent  the  patriarchs 
and  prophets. 

- 

TALE  CXI. 

OF   VIGILANCE    IN   OUR   CALLING. 

A  certain  nobleman  had  a  white  cow,  to  which  he  was 
extremely  partial.  He  assigned  two  reasons  for  this. 
First,  because  she  wiw  ^mtlisr-ly  white  ;  and  next,  because 
she   gave   abundance   of  rich   milk.     The  estimation  in 

*  Howovor  fun-Jt-iis  (lir  .-unci  lire  r.f  tliis  UK',  it.  convoys  an  admir- 
able moral.  It  teaches  that  tho  eye  of  Gnd  is  vigilant  for  the 
safeguard  of  mankind;  and  that  in  the  darkest  hour  with  which 
humanity  can  lit  visiinl.  -  nil  iljin<>  'iii-  working  ki^rther  for  good." 
But  the  tendency  of  the  whole  of  those  stories  is  uufciccyViiniBWui. 


200  QESTA   KOMANOEUM. 

which  the  nobleman  regarded  his  beast  increased  eo  much, 
that  he  constructed  gold™  horns  for  her,  and  thought  for 
ii  long  time  how  she  might  be  best  secured.  Js'ow,  there 
lived  at  that  time  a  man  called  Argus,  who  was  entirely 
1'nitliful  to  his  employer,  and,  moreover,  possessed  an 
hundred  eyes.  The  nobleman  despatched  a  messengerto 
Argus,  to  request  his  atteiiehinoo  without  delay.  On  hi» 
arrival,  he  said,  "  I  commit  tti  your  custody  my  cow  with 
golden  horns ;  and  if  you  guard  it  securely  I  wil"  .itwrally 
remunerate  you.  But  if  you  permit,  her  horns  tu  be  stolen, 
yon  shall  die  the  death."  Argus  accordingly  received  the 
cow  under  his  charge ;  and  every  day  attended  her  to 
the  pasture,  and  watched  her  with  unremitting  care.  At 
night  he  drove  her  homo.  But  there  dwelt  in  these  days 
a  certain  avaricious  knave  called  Mercury,  whose  still  in 
music,  was  surpassing.  He  had  a  great  desire  to  jtfww 
the  animal  so  narrowly  watched ;  and  he  went  frequent!;' 
to  her  keeper,  in  the  hope  of  prevailing  with  liimJ'y 
prayers  or  promises,  [o  deliver  the  horns  to  him.  But 
Argus  fixed  a  shepherd's  staff,  which  he  held,  firmly  in  tl» 
ground;  and  addressed  it  in  the  person,  of  his  masts':* 
"  Thou,  oh  staff,  art  my  master,  and  at  night  I  shall 
return  to  your  castle.  Ton  will  question  me  about  the 
cow  and  hor  horns ;  I  answer,  '  My  lord,  the  cow  has  l«l 
her  horns;  for  a  robber,  coming  while  I  slept,  ran  off  wit» 
them.'     Now,  you  reply,  '  Rascal !  had  you  not  an  hundred 

•  A  similar  colloquy  to  that  in  this  story  occurs  in  (be  IVM* 
Tula:- 

"  Let  me  suppose  that  I  am  nt  eonrt  (continued  lie.  taking  his  i*F 
nil'  hi.-  bi'ii'l.  siiJ  in  villi;  it  on  the  floor  } . .  I". .  r  l  -  him),  li.-t  lue  suppose  nj 
■  ■-l|>  !•'  In-  T.>-iiltiiiiiir.  and  fee  if  1  Mil  have  tin.'  eontidence  In  in.'"; 
upon  a  lio  in  Die  face  of  the  king.  Knteriri};  inlo  hir  iin^enee. 1  -J111' 
liim.  Snddyq.aays  lie  to  iiif,  let  my  t>l:fk  ln«r.-rlH'  i;'>t  ready,  IineM'1' 
ride  him  tn-ilav,—  Sir,  :m  mvideiit  has  >.,-  fallen  III  in  :  yesterday,  in  $# 
even  in r.  lie  would  «it.  nothing  whatever  that  was  offered  to  him,  «^ 
he  died  at  midnight;  nor  can  I  imagine  -what  has  killed  him.— H""' 
mv  btaok  horse,  tlul  enrrinl  me  so  well  but  yesterday,  is  he  il*" 
Win  must  it  U*  lie  rattier  tliun  so  many  others  that  are  in  the  W* 
MaUo?  What  story  is  this  you  tell  me?  Begone,  you  are  *  Ii*1- 
Thou  hast  eil  lii  v  sold  in v  li"r>e  ti.  sntiii'  fori-iener,  who  nentmwit  *^ 
self  in  **• 


lh"' 


heart  this  moment;  c 


OF  THE  CARE  OF  THE  SOUL.        201 

eyes?  How  was  it  that  they  were  all  asleep,  while  the 
rubier  stole  the  horns?  This  is  a  lie,  and  I  will  put  you 
to  death.'  And  if  I  say  that  I  have  sold  it,  I  shall  be 
equally  exposed  to  the  indignation  of  my  lord."  "Get 
thee  gone,  then,"  answered  Mercury  :  "thou  shalt  have 
nothing."  With  this  threat  Mercury  departed,  and  the 
neit  day  returned  with  a  musical  instrument.  He  then 
began  to  tell  Argus  stories,  and  to  sing  to  him  ;  until  at 
last  two  of  his  eyes  dropped  asleep ;  then  two  more,  and 
finally,  the  whole  head  sunk  into  a  deep  slumber.  Mercury 
perceiving  this,  decapitated  him,  and  bore  away  the  cow 
with  her  golden  horns.* 

APPLICATION. 

My  heloved,  the  nobleman  is  Christ ;  the  whit*  cow  is 
the  soul.  The  milk  represents  prayer  and  supplication,  on 
account  of  which  he  gave  her  golden  horns,  that  is,  eternal 
life.  Argus  is  any  prelate,  who  ought  to  be  circumspect 
and  watchful.  The  pastoral  staff  is  the  ecclesiastical 
power  communicated  to  him ;  the  songs  are  put  for  singing 
women.  Then,  if  the  prelate  fall  asleep,  the  head  is  cut 
off,  that  is,  he  lose*  eternal  life.     Mercury  is  the  devil. 


OF  THE  CABE  OF  THE  SOUL. 
Tee  Emperor  Gorgonius  had  a  beautiful  wife,  who  was 
delivered  of  a  son.  The  boy  grew  up  a  universal  favourite; 
l>at  on  attaining  bin  tenth  yt-ur  (lie  mother  died,  and  was 
«plendidly  interred.  By  the  advice  of  his  counsellors,  the 
I'luperor  took  another  wife,  who  conceived  a  dislike  for  her 
Btm-ia-law,  and  did  him  many  injuries. f     When  this  was 

*  "The  classical  Btory  of  Argue  and  Mercury,  with  some  romantio 
"Witions." — Wartok, 

t  Wsrton  says,  in  his  BUelyeii  of  this  Btory,  "The  ado  of  king 
jfanalai  is  beloved  by  hi»  step  mother."  This  ia  a  mistake.  Tim 
'-•tin  test  is,  '•  Hes.  alium  Hx.-in.-ijj  riusit.  i[a:n  (ilium  prima  uinria 
^"  dikxil,  led  approbria  multa  tilt  iniulii."     Xetliin.,-  can  be  plainer. 


■ 


202  ORSTA  ROMAMORCM. 

com  mim  ion  toil  to  the  king,  being  desirous  of  gratifying 
his  new  spouse,  he  Vanished  the  young  man  from  tie 
kingdom.  Thus  driven  from  his  home,  he  turned  his 
nt.tunt.ion  to  physic,  and  became  in  the  course  of  time» 
great,  nnd  perfect  physician.  The  emperor,  hearing  of  bis 
celebrity,  was  much  pleased  at  it ;  anil  happening  a  ehort 
time  afterwards  to  fall  sick,  sent  letters  to  recall  him. 
When  the  son  understood  his  I'athr-r's  pleasure,  he  made 
haste  to  comply  with  it,  and  by  his  skill  in  luodicinr 
soon  restored  him  to  convalescence.  The  fame  of  this 
cure  spread  through  the  whole  kingdom.  Now,  it  chawed 
that  his  stepmother  sickened  even  to  death,  and  phy- 
sicians from  every  place  were  summoned  to  attend  her. 
They  all,  however,  unanimously  declared  that  death  wit 
inevitable,  and,  full  of  grief  at  the  intelligence,  the 
emperor  desired  his  son  to  undertake  the  cure,  "  So,  my 
lord,"  said  he.  "  I  cannot  comply  with  your  wishes."  "It 
you  deny  me,"  returned  the  father,  "  1  will  again  lmaish 
you  the  kingdom."  "  Then,"  he  replied,  "  you  will  act 
with  the  greatest  injustice.  You  acknuwJeiiged  your*-!' 
my  father,  yet  banished  mo  from  you  through  this  f«J 
woman's  suggestion.  My  absence  occasioned  your  sick- 
ness and  sorrow,  and  my  presence  produces  a  like  efe' 
upon  the  queen,  my  unkind  stepmother;  therefore  I  will 
not  cure  her,  hut  will  immediately  depart."  "  The  queen, 
returned  the  father,  "is  afflicted  with  tho  same  infirmity 
that  I  was,  and  which  you  so  effectually  dispelled:  lot nie 
entreat  you  to  preserve  her  also."  "My  beloved  fcthSi 
answered  lie,  "  although  she  has  tho  same  infirmity,  her 
complexion  is  different.  When  I  entered  the  palace,  the 
joy  you  felt  at  my  return  contributed  to  your  speedy 
recovery;  but  the  reverse  happens  to  my  stepmother.  B 
I  speak,  she  is  full  of  grief;  if  I  touch  her,  she  is  carried 
beyond  herself.  Now.  nothing  is  more  beneficial  to  the 
sick  than  compliance  with  their  wishes.  She  cannot  be*1 
my  presence,  and  why  should  you  wish  it?"  By  the» 
excuses  the  son  evaded  the  matter,  and  his 


OF    SriRITL'AL   CONTESTS. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  first  parent.  Adam  ;  the 
first  wife  is  the  soul ;  and  the  son  is  Christ,  who  cures  our 
infirmities.     The  stepmother  is  the  devil. 


TALE   CXIII. 

OF   SPIRITUAL  CONTESTS. 

The  Emperor  Adonias  was  exceedingly  rich,  and  delighted 
in  tournaments  and  in  tilting.  He  once  held  a  tourna- 
ment, and  caused  it  to  be  proclaimed  that  the  conqueror 
should  obtain  a  magnificent  reward.  This  caused  a  great 
iblage  of  the  princes  and  peers  of  the  kingdom  ;  and 
nperor  ordained  that  the  knights  should  be  divided, 
so  many  on  one  side  and  so  many  on  the  other.  But  they 
who  first  entered  the  field  were  to  dispose  their  shields  and 
arms  in  order  in  a  certain  place ;  and  further,  whosoever 
of  the  adverse  party  would  touch  the  shield  of  another 
with  his  lance,  immediately  he  whose  shield  was  touched, 
being  previously  armed  by  a  niiiideii  selected  for  tile 
purpose,  should  descend  to  the  contest,  and  if  he  proved 
victorious,  should  be  crowned  with  a  kingly  crown,  and 
eat  meat  at  the  royal  table.  Now,  a  certain  knight,  having 
diligently  inspected  the  shields  of  his  antagonists,  was 
wonderfully  taken  with  one  bearing  three  apples  or;  and 
that  shield  he  touched.  Instantly  the  owner  of  it  armed 
and  met  his  opponent,  and,  after  a  short  conflict,  cut 
'  i   head,    and  .received    the    promised 


•  "  The  most  curious  anecdote  of  chivalry,  now  on  record, occur* 
in  the  ecclesiastical  history  of  Spain.  AlphonBUB  the  Ninth,  about 
the  year  1214,  having  expelled  (lie  Moors  from  Toledo,  ende»  von  ml 
to  establish  the  Rowan  missi.l  in  tin-  plu.-c  of  >uim  Isidore's.  Thin 
alarming  innovation  was  oUsiiimli/K  ■  ■j.[..vi  d  by  the  I'voplo  of  Toledo, 
and  the  king  found  that  his  prnjr.-l  vmiiI.1  Ik-  iiil.iiided  with  almost 
insuperahle  difficulties.  Thu  contest  at  length  between  the  two 
missals  grew  no  serious,  that  it  was  mutually  resolved  to  decide  ths 
controversy,  Dot  by  a  tbeoloyietil  disputation,  but  \yj  ain^ie  «rti&»!.\ 


GESTA.   EOMASOIUJM. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  our  Lord  Jeaus  Christ;  tha 
tournament  is  the  contest,  ln-lween  (iod  and  the  devils; 
the  shields  are  some  of  the  attributes  of  the  Almighty ; 
and  the  field  is  human  nature.  The  shield  bearing  three 
golden  apples  is  the  Trinity  in  Unity,  against  which  the 
knight — that  is,  any  man — strikes  when  he  commits  a 
mortal  sin.     The  reward  uf  the  conqueror  is  eternal  life. 


OF   DKUVF.IUN'.'K    FROM    HKl.t.. 


Tn  the  reign  of  a  certain  king  there  lived  a  poor  man  who 
was  accustomed  to  go  every  day  to  a  neighbouring  forest 
to  cut  wood  for  sale.  On  one  occasion,  as  he  went  with 
an  ass,  the  thickness  of  the  underwood  caused  him  to  lose 
his  footing,  and  he  fell  unawares  into  a  pit,  from  which 
he  was  unable  to  deliver  himself.  In  this  pit  lay  a 
horrible  dragon,  whose  scaly  length  completely  encom- 
passed it.  The  higher  part  was  occupied  by  a  number 
of  serpents ;  as  also  tho  bottom  ;  half  way  down  was  a 
round  stone,  whicii  the  serpents  daily  ascended  and  licked. 
After  that  the  dragon  licked  it.  The  poor  man  wondered 
at  what  he  saw,  and  deliberated  upon  the  meaning.  "I 
have  already  remained  here  many  days,"  thought  he, 
"  without  sustenance ;  and  unless  I  con  obtain  food,  with- 


in which  the  champion  of  the  Tolebti  mLial   proved 


;  tournaments,  a  short 


I 


In  illtifitrntinn   nf  1.1m   nvide  of  en  id  tic  I 
(juntutiini  from  Fnii-vnrl  may  in:  adduced  :- 

"They  ordayned  in  a  fnyre  pinyne  betwene  Cahiys  and  Saynt 
Iiiirilburtes  tlirc  fn  snlj  ,-ii  m  [miiilyoiia  l.o  In1  ]'y?lii  up:  and  at  the 
crrtre  of  every  piiiiilini]  tlu-iv  imrifird  two  nhf-lilcii,  uitli  the  urines  of 
the  kni^htcs;  ouo  .«hcldis  of  jirari:,  another  of  narre ;  and  it  »aa 
nrdayned  Unit  siu'h.:  as  Hlmnldo  ryn  and  do  dedea  of  armea  ahonlde 
touch  one  of  tin:  /hthli-t,  or  r.in.ic  to  In'  l-i>u'lini  whirhr.  a.-i  pkusetli  them, 
«id  he  should  bedelyuered  according  tohia  desire." — Behneh's  Froit- 
■oL  ii.  cap.  clsviii. 


OF  RECONCILIATION   THROUGH  CHRIST.  205 


rOBt  doubt  I  must  perish.  I  will  do,  therefore,  as  the 
serpents  and.  dragon  do."  Accordingly,  ho  went  up  to  the 
«tone  and  l*gan  to  lick  it,  when,  to  his  astonishment, 
Jia  found  that  it  partook  of  every  delicious  flavour  that 
imagination  could  devise,  and  was  aa  much  invigorated  as 
if  he  had  eaten  all  the  food  in  the  world.  A  few  days 
after,  a  dreadful  thunderstorm  burst  overhead;  insomuch 
that  the  serpents  left  their  retreat  one  after  another:  and 
when  they  had  departed,  the  dragon  which  Jay  at  the 
bottom  of  the  well  raised  itself  above,  and  would  have 
flown  away;  but  the  poor  man,  observing  this,  caught 
hold  of  it  by  the  tail,  and  by  these  means  succeeded  in 
escaping  from  the  pit.  The  dragon  carried  him  a  con- 
siderable distance,  and  dropped  him  in  the  same  wood; 
but,  ignorant  of  his  situation,  he  was  unablo  to  find  the 
way  out.  A  company  of  merchants,  however,  happening 
to  travel  through  that  forest,  showed  him  the  path  he 
wanted.  Very  happy  at  his  marvellous  deliverance,  he 
returned  to  his  own  city,  and  published  what  had 
occurred;  but  bis  death  followed  immediately  afterwards. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  heavenly  Father ;  the 
poor  man  is  aa  men  are  naturaliy,  who  enter  a  wood — 
that  is,  the  world.  The  pit  is  mortal  sin.  The  round 
stone  in  the  centre  is  Christ.  Tho  thunderstorm  typifies 
confession,  which  Iv-itig  limird,  the  st-rpiuihi — that  is,  sins 
and  devils — are  affrighted,  and  depart.  The  dragon  is  the 
deriL  and  the  merchants  are  preachers. 


TALE  CXV. 

OF  RECONCILIATION  THROUGH  CHRIST. 


A  cntTAiN  emperor  possessed  a  forest,  in  which  was  an 
e'ephant  whom  no  one  dare  approach.  This  caused  his 
•Dajeety  no  little  surprise,  and  '.rilling  together  his  nobles 
a'id  wise  men.  he  asked  them  what  was  the  nature  of  this 
*'Bphant.      They  replied  that  he  mightily  approved  pure 


206 


GESTA  KOMANultOI. 


and  modest  virgins.  Thereupon,  the  emperor  wished  U 
despatch  two  beautiful  and  virtuous  maids,  who  wen 
likewise  skilled  in  music,  if  any  such  were  to  bo  found  in 
his  kingdom.  At  last,  his  emissaries  discovered  two  wiu 
were  honest  and  fair  enough,  and  causing  them  to  he 
stripped,  one  of  them  was  required  to  carry  a  basin,  ind 
the  other  a  eword.  They  entered  the  forest,  and  began 
to  sing ;  and  the  elephant,  attracted  by  tho  sound,  Mm 
approached.  In  the  mean  time  the  virgins  continual 
their  song,  till  the  elephant  fondled  them,  and  by  and  lj' 
fell  asleep  in  tho  lap  of  one  of  tho  maids.  The  other, 
perceiving  this,  slew  him  with  the  sword  she  had  enrm-J. 
while  her  companion  filled  the  bowl  with  blood.  Thnfi 
they  returned  to  the  king ;  and  when  he  heard  of  their 
success,  he  rejoiced  succeedingly,  and  ordered  a  very 
beautiful  purple,  and  many  other  curious  matters,  to  he 
made  of  the  blood." 

*  "  Id  this  wild  tale,  there  are  circumstances  enough  of  geoenl 
analogy,  if  not  of  peculiar  piirnllelinn,  to  recall  to  my  memory  th' 
following  beautiful  description,  in  the  MS.  romance  of  §yr  LwiolJ-ff 
two  damsels,  whom  the  knight  unexpectedly  meets  is  a  dnnU* 
forest  :— 

"Ab  he  sat  in  sorrow  sore 
He  saw  come  out  of  hclt-e«  hoar, 

Gentle  maidens  two; 
Their  kirtles  were  of  Ind  sandal ' 
Ylaced  small,  jolyf '  and  well, 
There  might  none  gayer  go. 
Their  mantled  were  of  jjrn.'ii  velvet, 
Y  bordered  with  mid  rijrlit  well  y  set, 

Y  pelured"  with  grie  and  gro.* 
Their  head  r*  «ere  well  difht  withal, 
Each  had  on  a  jolyf  coronal 
TVith  sixty  gems  and  mo.' 
Their  faces  were  while  as  tnnw  on  down. 
Their  rode "  was  red,  their  eyen  were  brown, 

The  one  bare  of  gold  a  basin, 
That  other  11  towel  while  !Oid  fine, 
Of  silk  that  was  good  and  rich. 
Their  kerchiefs  WM  well  schyre  ' 
Arrayed  with  a  rich  gold  wire," — Wahto*. 


Tli/.TTur    1..« 


OF   THE    LOVE    OF   GOD. 


APPLICATION. 


My  Wiivnl.  the  emperor  is  our  heavenly  Father;  the 
elephant  is  Christ ;  and  tlie  two  virgins,  Mary  and  Eve, 
who  were  both  born  free  from  sin.*  Mary  being  sanctified 
in  the  womb.  She  curries  a  sword,  that  is,  sin,  by  which 
Christ  died. 


OF   THE    LOVE    OF   OOD. 

Kino  Pepin  married  a  very  beautiful  girl,  by  whom  he 
had  a  son  ;  but  tho  mother  died  in  her  confinement.  He 
therefore  espoused  another,  and  she  also  brought  forth  a 
son,  whom  ho  sent  with  the  cider-born  to  be  educated 
in  another  country.  Now,  they  so  much  resemhled  one 
another,  that  it  was  impossible  to  distinguish  them;  and 
when,  after  a  length  of  time,  the  anxiety  of  the  living 
mother  to  behold  her  son  occasioned  llicir  return,  although 
tho  one  was  younger  by  perhaps  a  yc:ir.  he  was  as  tall  as 
his  brother,  which  indeed  frequently  happens.  But  the 
resemblance  to  each  other  was  so  strong,  that  the  mother 
knew  not  her  own  child.  She  earnestly  entreated  the 
king  to  determine  her  doubts,  but  he  refused  compliance 
with  her  wishes.  This  occasioned  a  flood  of  tears;  and 
the  king,  feeling  distressed  at  her  trouble,  said,  "Weep 
not ;  that  is  your  son,"  and  pointed  to  him  who  was  born 
of  the  first  wife.  This  deception  comforted  the  queen; 
and  without  delay  sin:  studiously  sought  to  supply  all  his 
wants,  to  the  neglect  of  him  who  was  really  her  oil'spring. 
The  king,  seeing  this,  asked,  "  Why  do  you  deceive  your- 
self? One  of  these  two  is  your  son,  but  which  you  have 
yet  to  learn."  "  To  what  end  is  this  ? "  answered  she  : 
"tell  me  which  is  he?"  "No,"  said  the  king ;  "certainly 
not,  and  for  this  reason.  If  I  tell  you  the  truth,  you  will 
love  one  and  neglect  tho  other.     I  desire  you,  therefore. 


i   opportunity  «f 


MB  GESTA    ROMANORUM 

to  attend  equally  to  both,  and  when  they  have  arrived  at 
mill"*  estate.  I  will  show  you  which  is  which  ;  then  your 
b  will  be  perfect."  The  queen  complied  with  her 
a  will;  she  conducted  herself  with  the  strictest 
impartiality,  until  they  had  attained  to  manhood.  On 
discovering  her  own  child,  she  gave  free  course  to  her 
joy.     Thus  her  days  glided  on,  and  ended  in  peace.* 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  two  eons  are  the 
elect  and  the  reprobate.  The  mother  of  the  last  bob  is 
the  Church.  The  dead  mother  represents  the  old  law. 
The  Church  distinguishes  not  between  those  who  ■« 
elect  and  reprobate ;  but  when  they  come  of  age — that  is, 
at  the  day  of  judgment — the  truth  will  be  declared. 


TALE  CXVII. 

OP  TJX  CON  VERSION. 

The  Emperor  Frederic  decreed  that,  if  any  female  *w» 
violated,  whosoever  freed  her  from  the  hand  of  the 
oppressor  should  have  her  for  his  wife  if  he  wished. 
Now,  it  happened  that  a  certain  vile  wretch  caught  up 
a  young  girl,  and  dragging  her  into  a  forest,  there  abased 
her.  She  shrieked  violently;  and  a  noble  knight,  riding 
by  some  chance  in  the  same  forest,  heard  her  exclamation*, 
and  spurred  on  his  horee  to  her  assistance.  He  inquired 
the  occasion  of  the  clamour.  "  Oh,  my  lord,"  said  the 
damsel,  "  for  the  love  of  God,  succour  me.  This  villain 
lias  abused  me.  and  threatened  me  with  destruction. 
"  My  lord,"  answered  the  fellow,  "  she  is  my  wife,  whew 
I  have  taken  in  adultery,  and  I  therefore  menaced  her 
with  death."     "  Do  not  believe  it,  my  lord,"  said  the  p"1 

•  "A  favourite  old  roraau-e  is  founded  no  the  indlttin 
ness  of  twn  <■(  I ']  i.irt.ii  i  :i^rn-'s  .;mi;titd,  A  my  a  and  Amclion  ;  origin*''? 
celebrated  by  Turpin,  and  pit  ed  bj  Vincent  of  BeauvaU,  under  '*' 
reign  of  Pepin."— Wabtoic. 


OF    UNCONVEBSION. 


r  have  I  been  other  than  a  maid, 
until  treacherously  maltreated  by  this  ruffian.  Help  me. 
then,  I  implore  you."  "  I  perceive  plainly,"  said  the 
knight,  "that  this  wretch  has  oppressed  you,  and  I  will 
therefore  free  you  from  hia  hands."  "  You  will  do  this  at 
your  peril,"  answered  the  other ;  "  I  will  defend  my  right 
to  the  last."  Saying  which,  he  prepared  himself  for  a  con- 
test. After  a  desperate  struggle,  the  knight  obtained  the 
victory,  but  was  dangerously  wounded.  He  then  said  to 
the  lady,  "  Aro  you  pleased  to  espouse  me?  "  "  Willingly," 
returned  she;  "  I  wish  it  from  my  heart,  and  here  pfedgc 
my  faith."  This  done,  the  knight  said,  "  You  eha.il  reside 
in  my  castle  for  a  few  days ;  and  in  the  mean  time  I  will 
go  to  my  parents,  and  provide  everything  requisite  for 
our  union.  After  that,  I  will  return  and  espouse  you 
with  great  splendour."  "  I  am  ready  to  obey  you  in 
all  things,"  answered  the  lady ;  and  the  knight,  having 
placed  her  as  he  had  said,  bade  her  farewell.  But  while 
he  was  absent,  an  oppressive  lord  of  that  country  went  to 
the  castle,  where  the  girl  was  placed,  and  knocked  at  the 
gate.  She  denied  him  admission  ;  and  he  had  then  re- 
course to  magnificent  promises.  He  declared  himself 
ready  to  espouse  her  honourably;  and  she,  lending  too 
credulous  an  ear  to  what  wan  said,  at  last  opened  the  gate. 
He  went  in,  and  remained  with  her  during  the  night.  In 
about  a  month's  space,  the  knight  returned  to  his  eaatle. 
He  knocked,  but  no  one  replied  to  him.  Filled  with  the 
greatest  bitterness  of  heart,  he  said,  "  Oh,  dear  girl,  recall 
how  I  saved  thy  life,  and  the  faith  which  you  solemnly 
pledged  me.  Speak,  dear  girl,  and  let  me  behold  thy 
face."  The  lady,  hearing  this,  opened  the  window,  and 
said,  "Look,  you  ass  I  what  does  it  please  yo  to  want?" 
"  I  marvel,"  replied  he,  "  at  thy  ingratitude.  I  received 
several  dangerous  wounds  in  defending  thee;  and  if  thou 
art  incredulous,  I  will  show  them."  Saying  this,  he 
loosed  his  robe,  and  discovers)  1  lit  sears.  "  Do  not,"  added 
he,  "  be  ungrateful ;  open  the  gate,  that  I  may  receive  you 
as  my  beloved  wife."  But  she  made  no  answer,  and 
turned  away.  The  knight  complained  to  the  judge,  and 
alleged  the  services  he  had  rendered  her.  He  displayed 
the  wounds  taken  in  her  behalf,  and  claimed  Yist  mt%c 


210 


GESTA   HOMANORUM. 


pence  as  bia  wife.  The  judge,  therefore,  sent  for  the 
seducer,  and  said,  "Hast  thou  withheld  the  woman  whom 
the  knight's  bravery  freed  from  uncourteous  usage?" 

"i  have,  my  lord." 

"  And,  according  to  law,  she  voluntarily  became  hie 
wife?  How,  then,  darest  thou  affect  the  wife  of  another? 
First,  you  entered  his  cattle  during  his  absence  j  next, 
you  violated  his  bed ;  lastly,  for  a  long  time  you  have 
kept  hiB  wife  from  him  :  what  have  you  to  answer?" 

He  was  silent ;  and  the  judge,  turning  to  the  woman, 
said,  •'  Girl  I  by  the  law  of  the  land,  you  are  doubly  the 
wife  of  this  knight.  First,  because  he  freed  you  from  a 
violator  ;  and  secondly,  because  you  contracted  yourself  to 
him.  Why  hast  thou  opened  the  gate  of  thy  husband's 
castle  to  another  than  he  ? "  She,  also,  was  unable  Vi 
answer;  and  the  judge  condemned  both  to  be  crucified. 
This  was  done  accordingly,  and  iuuuh  praise  was  given  to 
the  judge  for  the  sentence  he  hud  pronounced. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God ;  the  woman  ia  the 
soul;  and  the  violator,  the  devil.  The  knight  is  Christ; 
the  castle,  the  human  body. 


TALE    CXVIII. 


A  certain  knight,  who  had  made  a  temporary  r 
in  Egypt,  was  desirous  of  laying  up  a  sum  of  n 
which  he  possessed  in  that  country.     He  inquired,  tl 
fore,  for  some  person  in  whom  he  might  repose  oo  " '" 
and  a  certain  old  man  being  pointed  out,  he  ^ 
delivered  to  him  ten  talents.     He  then  prepared  ft 
pilgrimage.     His  business  completed,  be  return   ' 
demanded  the  amount  of  what  he  had  deposited, 
agent,  proving  a  rogue,  asserted  that  he  had  no 
■  and,  totally  regardless  of  the  knight's  supplio 


and  conciliatory  language,  bade  him  with  much  contumely 
trouble  him  no  further.  The  knight,  exceedingly  dis- 
turbed at  such  unexpected  usage,  having  accidentally  met 
nn  old  woman  equipped  in  the  garb  of  a  devotee,  and 
supported  by  a  staff,  removed  a  number  of  atones  which 
slood  in  the  way,  and  which  might  have  cut  her  feet. 
Glaerving  the  despondency  of  the  knight's  demeanour, 
mil  at  the  same  time  suspecting  that  he  was  a  foreigner, 
sliu  entreated  him  to  come  near,  and  questioned  him  upon 
the  cause  of  his  solicitude.  Ho  gave  her  a  full  account 
of  it,  and  tho  old  woman  counselled  him  what  he  should 
do.  "Bring  me,"  said  she,  "to  a  man  of  your  own 
wnntry  whom  we  may  trust."  He  did  so,  and  she 
directed  him  to  fabricate  ten  chests,  painted  outwardly 
>tth  curious  devices  and  rich  colours,  bound  with  iron, 
and  fastened  with  silver  locks,  but  filled  up  with  stones. 
All  this  was  done,  and  the  woman  then  bade  the  knight 
«ni  them  by  ten  porters  to  the  warehouse  of  the  rascally 
fcctor.  "  Let  them  come  one  after  another,  in  order;  and 
aa  soon  as  the  first  man  has  entered,  do  you  boldly  demand 
jour  money.  I  trust  you  will  find  it  restored  to  you." 
-actordingly.  tney  proceeded  to  the  factor's  house,  and  the 
old  woman  addressed  him  as  follows  : — "  My  master,  this 
Stranger"  (pointing  to  the  artificer  of  the  chests)  "lodges 
*ith  me,  and  wishcB  to  return  to  his  native  land.  But 
first  he  would  deposit  his  wealth,  which  is  contained  in 
ten  chests,  under  the  safeguard  of  some  honourable  and 
faithful  person.  And  because  I  have  heard  this  character 
**f  you,  I  should  be  unwilling  to  let  any  one  else  have  the 
^are  of  them."  As  she  spoke,  a  porter  entered  with  the 
first  chest;  and  at  the  same  instant  tin:  knight  appeared, 
to  require  his  money.  Tho  knavish  factor,  fearing  that 
*f  he  disputed  the  right  of  the  last,  he  should  lose  the 
golden  harvest  which  the  custody  of  ten  such  apparently 
Valuable  chests  promised,  came  up  to  him  in  a  soothing 
tone,  and  said,  "  My  friend,  where  have  you  been  ? 
deceive,  I  pray  you,  the  money  which  you  laid  up  with 
one."  The  knight  was  not  slow  in  complying,  and  gave 
Bleat  thanks  to  God,  and  the  old  woman,  for  the  sums  he 
h-ad  almost  despaired  of.  "  Master,"  said  she  to  the  factor, 
"  1  and  my  man  will  go  and  make  inquiry  about  the  other 


212 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


chests,  and  hasten  back  immediately.  Expect  us;  and 
take  care  of  that  which  we  have  brought."  Thus,  by 
the  assistance  of  the  devotee,  the  knight  recovered  hi* 
property, 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  knight  is  any  Christian;  the  f*n 
talents  are  the  ten  command  men  ts.  The  factor  it  the 
world.  The  old  devotee  is  a  good  conscience;  and  the 
iron-bound  chest,  filled  with  stones,  is  a  heart  full  *f 

TJYtHIB, 


OF      INGRATITUDE. 

In  the  reign  of  a  certain  king  there  lived  a  ] 
oppressive  seneschal.     Now,  near  the  royal  pah 
forest  well  stocked  with  game :  and  by  the  direction  of 
person  various  pits  wore  dug  there,  and  covered  wit'  '" 
for   the   purpose  of  entrapping   the   beasts.     It  I 
that  the  se ne seh ill  himself  went  into  this  forest,  £ 
much   exaltation    of  heart  exclaimed   internally, 
there  a  being  in  the  empire  more  powerful  than  1 
This  braggart  thought  was  scarcely  formed,  ere  1 
upon  one  of  his  own  pitfalls,  and  immediately  disapp 
The  same  day  had  been  taken  a  lion,  a  monkey,  3 
pent.    Terrified  at  the  situation  into  which  fate  hi 
him,  he  cried  out  lustily,  and  his  noise  awoke  a 
called  Guido,  who  had  come  with  his  ass  into  ths 
to  procure  firewood,  by  the  sale  of  which  he  got  h 
Hastening  to  the  mouth  of  the  pit,  he  was  promis 
wealth  if  ho  would  extricato  the  seneschal  from  his 
situation.      "  My  friend,"   answered    Guido,    "  I   1 
means  of  obtaining  a  livelihood   except  by  the  t. 
which  I  collect :  if  I  neglect  this  for  a  single  day,  J 


OF   INGRATITUDE.  213 

be  thrown  into  the  greatest  difficulties."  The  seneschal 
reiterated  his  promises  of  enriching  him;  and  Guido  went 
hack  to  the  city,  and  returned  with  a  long  cord,  which  ho 
let  down,  into  the  pit,  and  bade  the  seneschal  hind  it  round 
his  waist.  But  before  he  could  apply  it  to  the  intended 
purpose,  the  lion  leaped  forward,  and  seizing  upon  the 
cord,  was  drawn  up  in  his  stead.  Immediately,  exhibiting 
great  signs  of  pleasure,  the  beast  ran  off  iuto  the  wood. 
The  rope  again  descended,  and  the  monkey,  having  noticed 
the  success  of  the  lion,  vaulted  above  the  man's  head,  and 
shaking  the  cord,  was  in  like  manner  set  at  liberty,  and 
hurried  off  to  his  haunts.  A  third  time  the  cord  was  let 
down,  and  the  serpent,  twining  around  it,  was  drawn  up, 
gave  signs  of  gratitude,  and  escaped.  "Oh,  my  good  friend," 
«aid  the  seneschal,  "  the  beasts  are  gone,  now  draw  me 
up  quickly,  I  pray  you."  Guido  complied,  and  afterwards 
succeeded  in  drawing  up  his  horse,  which  the  seneschal 
instantly  mounted  and  rode  back  to  the  palace.  Guido 
returned  home  ;  and  his  wife  obsorviug  that  he  had  come 
without  wood,  was  very  dejected,  and  inquired  the  cause. 
He  related  what  had  occurred,  and  the  riches  he  was  to 
receive  for  his  service.  The  wife's  countenance  brightened. 
Early  in  the  morning  her  husband  went  to  the  palace. 
But  the  seneschal  denied  all  knowledge  of  him,  and  ordered 
him  to  be  whipped  for  his  presumption.  The  porter  exe- 
cuted tho  directions,  and  beat  him  so  sovorely  that  ho  left 
him  half  dead.  As  soon  as  Guido' s>  wife  understood  this, 
she  saddled  their  ass,  and  brought  him  homo  in  a  very 
infirm  state.  The  sickness  which  ensued  consumed  the 
wholo  of  their  little  property ;  but  as  soon  as  he  had 
recovered,  he  returned  to  his  u.siiiil  occupation  in  the  wood. 
Whilst  he  was  thus  employed,  lie  beheld  afar  off  ten  asses 
iaden  with  packs,  and  a  lion  following  close  on  them, 
pursuing  the  path  which  led  towards  Guido.  On  looking 
narrowly  at  this  beast,  he  remembered  that  it  was  the  same 
which  he  had  freed  from  its  imprisonment  in  the  pit. 
The  lion  signified  with  his  foot  that  he  should  take  the 
loaded  asses,  and  go  home.  This  Guido  did,  and  the  lion 
followed.  On  arriving  at  his  own  door,  the  nohle  beast 
fawned  upon  him,  and  wagging  his  tail  as  if  in  triumph, 
cods.     Guido  caused  proclaraatioi    '    ' 


214 


gesta  eomanorcm:. 


made  in  different,  churches,*  that  if  any  asses  had  been 
lost,  the  owners  should  come  to  him ;  but  no  one  appearing 
to  demand  them,  he  opened  the  packages,  and,  to  his  great 
joy,  discovered  them  full  of  money.  On  the  second  day 
Guido  returned  to  the  forest,  but  forgot  an  iron  instrument 
to  cleave  the  wood.  He  looked  up,  and  beheld  the  monkey 
whose  liberation  he  had  effected;  and  the  animal,  by  help 
of  teeth  and  nails,  accomplished  his  desires.  Guido  then 
loaded  his  asses  and  went  home.  The  next  day  he  renewed 
his  visit  to  the  forest ;  and  sitting  down  to  prepare  his 
instrument,  discerned  the  serpent,  whose  escape  he  had 
aided,  carrying  a  stone  in  its  mouth  of  three  colours;  on 
one  side  white,  on  another  black,  and  on  the  third  red. 
It  opened  its  mouth  and  let  the  stone  fall  into  Guido's  lap. 
Having  done  this,  it  departed.  Guido  took  the  stone  to 
a  skilful  lapidary,  who  had  no  sooner  inspected  it  than  he 
knew  its  virtues,  and  would  willingly  have  paid  him  an 
hundred  florins  f  for  it.  But  Guido  refused ;  and  by 
means  of  that  singular  stone  obtained  great  wealth,  and 
was  promoted  to  a  military  command.  The  emperor 
having  heard  of  the  extraordinary  qualities  which  it  pos- 
sessed, desired  to  see  it.  Guido  went  accordingly ;  and 
the  emperor  was  so  struck  with  its  uncommon  beauty, 
that  he  wished  to  purchase  it  at  any  rate  ;  and  threatened, 
if  Guido  refuscid  compliance,  to  banish  him  the  kingdom. 
"  My  lord,"  answered  he,  "  I  will  sell  the  stone  ;  but  let 
me  say  one  thing — if  the  price  be  not  given,  it  shall  be 
presently  restored  to  me."  He  demanded  three  hundred 
florins,  and  then,  taking  it  from  a  small  coffer,  put  it  into 
the  emperor's  hands.  Full  of  admiration,  he  exclaimed, 
"  Tell  me  where  you  procured  this  beautiful  stone."  This 
he  did;  and  narrated  from  the  beginning  the  seneschal's 
aocident  and  subsequent  ingratitude.  He  told  how 
severely  he  had  been  injured  by  his  command ;  and  the 

*  "  Per  eeclesias  proelamare  feoit." 
notice  was  fasd-iicil  f>  liu!  fluirch  door.  ■ 
The  laat  is  moat  probable. 

t  "A  florin  or  franc;  an  «anient  mine  of  gold  in  France,  worth 
2t.  uteri,,  not  current  at  this  day;  (though  Languedric,  and  the 
countries  adjoyning,  retuiuo  the  nainu  still,  in  a  piece  that's  worth 
lSff.  aterl.J."— Cotusave. 


OF   INGRATITUDE.  215 

benefits  he  had  received  from  the  lion,  the  monkey,  and 
serpent.  Much  moved  at  the  recital,  the  emperor  sent  for 
the  seneschal  and  said,  "  What  is  this  I  hear  of  thee  ?  " 
He  was  unable  to  reply.  "  0  wretch !  "  continued  the 
emperor — "  monster  of  ingratitude  !  Guido  liberated  thee 
from  the  most  imminent  danger,  and  for  this  thou  hatt 
nearly  destroyed  him.  Dost  thou  see  how  even  irrational 
things  have  rendered  him  goud  fur  the  service  he  per- 
formed? but  thou  hast  returned  evil  for  good.  Therefore 
I  deprive  thee  of  thy  dignity,  trhdeh  I  will  bestow  upon 
Guide ;  and  I  further  adjudge  you  to  be  suspended  on  a 
cross."  This  decree  infinitely  rejoiced  the  noblemen  of 
the  empire ;  and  Guido,  full  of  honours  and  years,  ended 
his  days  in  peace." 

KAPPIJCATIOK. 
My  beloved,  the  emperor  ia  God ;  the  pauper,  man. 
The  forest  is  the  world,  which  is  full  of  pits.     The  lion 

*  "This  story  occura  in  Symeon  Seth's  translation  of  the  eele- 
brated  Arabian  fable-book,  called  Calii.ah  u  Dumkau.1  It  is  recited 
by  Matthew  Paris,  under  the  year  1195,  B6  a  parable  which  king 
Itichard  the  First,  afi.ir  his  n.turn  limn  tin-  l:!:i.~t,  was  often  accus- 
tomed to  repeat,  by  wuv  uf  ri'(in>vi:i^  thosu  ungrateful  prinoEB  who 
refused  to  engage  in  the  crusade.  It  is  verailied  by  Gower,  who 
omits  the  Linn,  u   Mai  thaw  Paris  does  the  ape,  in  the  fifth  book  of 

KCONFESSIO  A  MANTIS," — W AUTOS. 
There  is  aoine  little  difference  in  Oower. 


"  The  stone  he  proffereth  to  the  sale. 

Thus  when  this  stone  was  bought  and  sold, 

flntiiewiird  with  joy  many-fold  ; 

Tli is  HanliiN  p_-".tli.  itn-.l  is  ln.:i  he  came 

Home  to  his  )ii>u.-c,  ari'l  ilua  he  name* 

His  gold  out  of  his  puree  within. 

Ho  found  his  stone  also  therein. 


Cut  Don 


•  Ami  thus  it  fell  him  overall 
Whfri'  he  it  sold  in  sundry  place, 
Such  \sas  the  fortune,  and  the  grace." 

Confestio  AmoHtit,  lib.  v.  foj.  111-18. 
■ork  w»  transls's.i  int..  i;n..-li.4,  (m,]?r  Hi-  Mile  ot  'Dosnrtt  M< 
*  the  Raiian  tmiiBliitor."— "Vi°«««.'      ''        *'*        w°     ""^  '' 


216  GE5TA  ROMANORUM. 

is  the  Son  of  God,  who  assumed  humanity ;  the  monkey  is 
conscience ;  and  the  serpent  is  a  prelate  or  confessor.  The 
cord  is  Christ's  passion ;  the  loaded  asses  are  the  divine 


OF    FEMININE    SUBTLETY. 


Kino  Darius  was  a  circumspect  prince,  and  had  three  & 
whom  he  much  loved.  On  his  deathbed  he  bequeathed 
the  kingdom  to  his  first-born ;  to  the  second,  all  his  own 
personal  acquisitions ;  and  to  the  third  a  golden  ring,  a 
necklace,  and  a  piece  of  valuable  cloth.  The  ring  had 
the  power  to  render  any  one  who  bore  it  on  his  finger 
beloved ;  and,  moreover,  obtained  for  him  whatsoever  he 
sought.  The  necklace  enabled  the  person  who  wore  it 
upon  his  breast  to  accomplish  hie  heart's  desire;  and  the 
cloth  had  such  virtue,  that  whosoever  sat  upon  it  and 
thought  where  he  would  be  carried,  there  he  instantly 
found  himself.  These  three  gifts  the  king  conferred  upon 
the  younger  son,  for  the  purpose  of  aiding  bis  studies ; 
but  the  mother  retained  them  until  he  was  of  a  proper 
age.  Soon  after  the  bequests,  the  old  monarch  gave  up 
the  ghost,  and  was  magnificently  buried.  The  two  elder 
sons  then  took  jinKsessiun  of  their  legacies,  and  the  mother 
of  the  younger  delivered  to  him  the  ring,  with  the  caution 
that  he  should  beware  of  the  artifices  of  women,  or  he 
would  otherwise  lose  the  ring.  Jonathan  (for  that  was 
his  name)  took  the  ring,  and  went  zealously  to  bis  studies, 
in  which  he  made  himself  a  proficient.  But  walking 
on  a  certain  day  through  the  street,  he  observed  a  very 
beautiful  woman,  with  whom  he  was  so  muoh  struck,  that 
he  took  her  to  him.  He  continued,  however,  to  use  the 
ring,  and  found  favour  with  every  one,  insomuch  that 
whatever  he  desired  he  had. 

Now,  the  lady  was  greatly  surprised  that  he  lived  so 
splendidly,  having  in)  possessions;  and  ouce,  when  he  was 
particularly  exhilarated,  tenderly  embraced  him,  and  pro- 


OF    FEMININE   SUBTLETY.  217 

tested  that  there  was  not  a  creature  under  the  sun  whom 
she  loved  so  much  as  she  did  him.  He  ought  therefore, 
she  thought,  to  tell  her  hy  what  means  he  supported  his 
magnificence.  He,  suspecting  nothing,  explained  the 
virtues  of  the  ring ;  and  she  Legged  that  he  would  he 
careful  of  bo  invaluable  a  treasure.  "  But,"  added  she, 
"  in  your  daily  intercourse  with  men  you  may  lose  it : 
place  it  in  my  custody,  I  beseech  you."  Overcome  by 
her  entreaties,  he  gave  up  the  ring;  and  when  his 
necessities  came  upon  him,  she  asserted  loudly  that 
thieves  had  carried  it  orf.  He  lamented  bitterly  that 
now  he  had  not  any  means  of  subsistence  ;  and,  hastening 
to  his  mother,  stated  how  he  had  lost  his  ring.  "  My 
son,"  said  she,  "  I  forewarned  you  of  what  would  happen, 
but  you  have  paid  no  attention  to  my  advice.  Here  is 
the  necklace;  preserve  it  more  carefully.  If  it  be  lost, 
you  will  for  ever  want  a  thing  of  the  greatest  honour  and 
profit."  Jonathan  toot  the  necklace,  and  returned  to  his 
studies.  At  the  gate  of  the  city  his  mistress  met  him, 
and  received  him  with  the  appearance  of  great  joy.  He 
remained  with  her,  wearing  the  necklace  upon  his  breast; 
and  whatever  ho  thought,  tie  possessed.  As  before,  he 
lived  so  gloriously  that  the  lady  wondered,  well  knowing 
that  he  had  neither  gold  nor  silver.  She  guessed,  there- 
fore, that  he  carried  another  talisman;  and  cunningly 
drew  from  him  the  history  of  the  wonder-working  neck- 
lace. "  Why,"  said  the  lady,  "  do  you  always  take  it 
with  you  ?  You  may  think  in  one  moment  more  than  can 
be  made  use  of  in  a  year.  Let  me  keep  it."  "  No," 
replied  he,  "you  will  lose  the  necklace,  as  you  lost  the 
ring;  and  thus  I  shall  receive  the  greatest  possible  in- 
jury." "  0  my  lord,"  replied  she,  "  I  have  learnt,  by  having 
had  the  custody  of  the  ring,  how  to  secure  the  necklace ; 
and  I  assure  you  no  one  can  possibly  get  it  from  me." 
The  silly  youth  eonfided  in  her  words,  and  delivered  the 

Now,  when  all  he  possessed  was  expended,  he  sought 
his  talisman  ;  and  she,  as  before,  solemnly  protested  that 
it  had  been  stolen.  This  threw  Jonathan  into  the  greatest 
distress,  "Am  I  mad,"  cried  he,  "that  after  the  loss  of 
I  should  givo  up  the  necklace?"     Imme.dia,\fc\^ 


HIS 


GESTA   ROMANORCM. 


hastening  to  his  mother,  he  related  to  her  the  whole 
circumstance.  Not  a  little  afflicted,  she  said,  "  Oh,  my  dear 
child,  why  didst  thou  place  confidence  in  the  woman  ? 
People  will  believe  thee  a  fool :  but  be  wise,  for  I  have 
nothing  more  for  yon  than  the  valuable  cloth  which  your 
father  loft :  and  if  you  lose  that,  it  will  be  quite  useless 
returning  to  me."  Jonathan  received  the  cloth,  and  again 
went  to  hie  studies.  The  harlot  seemed  very  joyful ;  and 
he,  spreading  out  the  cloth,  said,  "  My  dear  girl,  my 
father  bequeathed  me  this  beautiful  cloth ;  sit  down  upon 
it  by  my  side."  She  complied,  and  Jonathan  secretly 
wished  that  they  were  in  a  desert  place,  out  of  the  reach 
of  man.  The  talisman  took  effect ;  they  were  carried  infcC 
a  forest  on  the  utmost  boundary  of  the  world,  where  there 
was  not  a  trace  of  humanity.  The  lady  wept  bitterly, 
but  Jonathan  paid  do  regard  to  her  tears.  He  solemnly 
vowed  to  Heaven  that  he  would  leave  her  a  prey  to  the 
wild  beauts, unless  she  restored  his  ring  and  necklace;  and 
this  she  promised  to  do.  Presently,  yielding  to  her  re- 
quest, the  foolish  Jonathan  discovered  the  power  of  the 
cloth ;  and,  in  a  little  time  being  weary,  placed  his  head 
in  her  lap  and  slept.  Tn  the  interim,  she  contrived  to  draw 
away  that  part  of  the  cloth  upon  which  he  repoBed,  and 
sitting  upon  it  alone,  wished  herself  where  she  had  been 
in  the  morning.  The  cloth  immediately  executed  her 
wishes,  and  left  Jonathan  slumbering  in  the  forest.  When 
he  awoke,  and  found  his  cloth  and  bis  mistress  departed, 
he  hurst  into  an  agouy  of  tears.  Where  to  bend  his 
steps  he  knew 'not;  but  arising,  and  fortifying  himself 
with  the  sign  of  the  cross,  he  walked  along  a  certain  path, 
until  he  reached  a  deep  river,  over  which  he  must  pass. 
But  he  found  it  so  bitter  and  hot,  that  it  even  separated 
the  flesh  from  the  bones.  Full  of  grief,  he  conveyed 
away  a  small  quantity  of  that  water,  and  when  he  had 
proceeded  a  little  further,  felt  hungry.  A  tree  upon 
which  hung  the  most  tempting  fruit  invited  him  to 
partake ;  he  did  so,  and  immediately  became  a  leper.  He 
gathered,  also  a  little  of  the  fruit,  and  conveyed  it  with 
him.  After  travelling  for  some  time,  he  arrived  at 
another  stream,  of  which  the  virtue  was  such,  that  it 
restored  the  flesh  to  his  feet ;  and  eating  of  a  second  tree. 


OF   FEMINISE   SUBTLETY. 


219 


he   was  cleansed  from  his   leprosy.     Some  of  that  fruit 
he  likewise  took  along  with  him. 

Walking  in  thin  manner  day  after  day,  he  came  at 
length  to  a  castle,  where  he  was  met  by  two  men,  who 
inquired  what  he  was.  "  I  am  a  physician,"  answered 
he.  "  This  is  lucky,"  said  the  other  ;  "  the  king  of  this 
country  is  a  leper,  and  if  yon  are  able  to  cure  him  of  hia 
leprosy,  "vast  rewards  will  be  assigned  you."  He  promised 
to  try  his  skill ;  and  they  led  him  forward  to  the  king. 
The  result  was  fortunute  ;  lie  supplied  him  with  the  fruit 
of  the  second  tree,  and  the  leprosy  left  him  ;  and  washing 
the  flesh  with  the  water,  it  was  completely  restored. 
Being  rewarded  most  bountifully,  be  embarked  on  board 
a  vessel  for  his  native  city.  There  he  circulated  a  report 
that  a  great  physician  was  arrived  ;  and  the  lady  who  had 
cheated  him  of  the  talismans,  being  sick  unto  death,  im- 
mediately Bent  for  him.  Jonathan  was  so  much  disguised 
that  she  retained  no  recollection  of  him,  but  he  very  well 
remembered  her.  As  soon  as  he  arrived,  he  declared  that 
medicine  would  avail  nothing,  unless  she  first  confessed 
her  sins ;  and  if  she  had  defrauded  any  one,  it  mnst  be 
«stored.  The  lady,  reduced  to  the  very  verge  of  the 
grave,  in  a  low  voice  acknowledged  that  Bhe  had  cheated 
Jonathan  of  the  ring,  necklace,  and  cloth;  and  had  left 
him  in  a  desert  place  to  he  devoured  by  wild  beasts. 
When  she  had  said  this,  the  pretended  physician  exclaimed, 
"Tell  me,  lady,  where  these  talismans  are?"  "In  that 
chest,"  answered  she  ;  and  delivered  up  the  keys,  by  which 
he  obtained  possession  of  his  treasures.  Jonathan  then 
gave  her  of  the  fruit  which  produced  leprosy ;  and,  after 
she  had  eaten,  of  the  water  which  separated  the  flesh  from 
the  bones.  The  consequence  was  that  she  was  excruciated 
with  agony,  and  shortly  died.  Jonathan  hastened  to  his 
mother,  and  the  whole  kingdom  rejuiced  at  hie  return. 
He  told  by  what  means  God  had  freed  him  from  such 
various  dangers ;  and,  having  lived  many  years,  ended  his 

ImVD    Jl,    »!■(£,     (15) 


o*Y6ia  peace.  (15) 


OESTA   ROJIANORUM. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  queen-mother,  the 
Church ;  and  the  three  sons,  men.  living  in  the  worll. 
The  third  eon  is  any  good  Christian :  the  ring  is  faith; 
the  necklace  is  grace  or  hope  ;  and  the  cloth,  clarity. 
The  concubine  ia  the  flesh  ;  the  bitter  water  is  repentant*, 
and  the  first  fruit  is  remorse ;  the  second  water  is  con- 
fession, and  the  second  fruit  is  prayer,  fasting,  and  alms- 
giving. The  leprous  king  is  any  sinful  man;  the  ship 
in  which  Jonathan  embarked  is  the  divine  command. 


OF  WORLDLY    GLORY    AND    LUXURY. 

There  formerly  Lived  a  king  who  had  two  knight 
dent  in  one  city.  One  of  them  was  old,  the  other  y 
The  old  knight  was  rich,  and  had  i 
damsel  on  account  of  her  exquisite  beauty.  The  y 
knight  was  poor,  and  espoused  an  old  woman  in  conw- 
queues  of  her  immense  wealth.  It  happened  that  the 
young  knight  walked  by  the  castle  of  the  elder,  and  m 
a  window  his  wife  sat,  and  sang  deliriously.  The  youtn 
was  much  taken  with  her,  and  said  in  his  heart,  "'' 
would  be  ten  thousand  times  better  if  that  sweat  g>r' 
were  united  to  me,  and  her  old  doting  husband  poflSW* 
of  my  infirm  wife."  From  that  hour  he  conceived  a 
violent  affection  for  her,  and  made  her  many  valua'1^ 
presents.  The  lady  entertained  a  similar  feeling,  aid 
whenever  she  could,  permitted  him  to  visit  her.  Sw 
endeavoured  also  to  secure  him  for  her  husband  in  «• 
event  of  the  old  man's  death.  Now,  near  the  windo*  °' 
the  castle  which  the  old  knight  occupied,  there  grew  a 
fig-tree,  on  which  a  nightingale  stationed  herself  ever? 
evening,  and  uttered  the  most  ravishing  harmony.  To" 
circumstance  drew  the  lady  thither;  and  it  became  ■ 
custom  with  her  to  remain  at  the  window  a  long  tin**' 
to  listen  to  the  song  of  the  nightingale.     When  her  b" 


OF  WORLDLY  GLORY  AND   LUXURY.  221 

band,  good  man !  noticed  this  extreme  watchfulness,  he 
said,  "  My  dear,  what  is  the  reason  that  you  get  up  every 
night  with  so  much  regularity? "  "A  nightingale, 
answered  she,  "  sings  upon  the  fig-tree,  oppusite  my 
window;  and  her  song  is  so  delightful  ttuit  1  cannot 
resist  the  pleasure  of  listening  to  it."  The  old  knight 
hearing  this,  arose  early  in  tht:  morning,  and,  armed  with 
bow  and  arruw,  hastened  tu  the  fig-tree.  He  shot  the 
nightingale,  and  taking  out  the  heart,  presented  it  to  his 
wife.  The  lady  wept  exceedingly,  and  said,  "Sweet  bird, 
thw  didst  but  what  became  thee.  I  alone  am  the  occasion 
of  thy  death."  Immediately  she  despatched  a  messenger 
to  the  youthful  knight,  to  inform  him  of  her  husband's 
cruelty,  The  intelligence  grieved  hiin  to  the  heart's  core, 
and  he  exclaimed  internally,  "If  this  cruel  old  wretch  only 
knew  how  much  hiB  wife  and  I  are  attached  to  each  other, 
he  would  treat  me  even  more  vilely ! "  This  reflection 
determined  him ;  he  cased  himself  in  a  double  coat  of 
mail,  and  entering  the  castle,  slew  the  aged  knight.  Sewn 
after  this,  bis  old  wifo  dying,  he  married  the  relict  of  the 
old  knight.  They  lived  many  years,  and  ended  their 
days  in  peace." 


My  beloved,  the  two  knight*  are  Moses  and  Christ, 
The  latter,  who  is  tho  old  knight,  married  a  young  wife, 
that  is,  the  new  law.  The  old  wife  is  the  old  law.  The 
fig-tree  is  the  Cross;  the  nightingale,  Christ's  humanity, 
which  the  Jews  destroyed.  The  heart  of  the  bird  is  the 
love  exhibited  by  our  Saviour.  The  double  arms  are  the 
Jewish  ci 


*  This  ia  Btr&nge  justice ;  but  I  s 
cute  what  Pope,  utter  Chaucer,  hut  si 

"  No  greater  folly  can  be  soon 
Than  crocked  eighty,  eeoplu!  with  liyhteon.** 
The  maxim  is  indisputable ;   but  I  wish  the  writer  el'  the  (lest  had 
otherwise  expressed  it. 

The  above  itt.-.ry  i^  amori"  t lie  t.uy-  of  Marie  (a  Krenrh  puttees. 
ttmp.  Henry  III.  resident  in  Kii^IhtiiI)  under  the  title  of  Laustic. 
Mr.  Ellia,  in  bia  abstract,  h«s  not  noticed  its  occurrence  in  the  GtUa 


GESTA   EOMANORUM. 


TALE  CXXIL 

OF    ECCLESIASTICAL    BLINDNESS. 

A  certain  knight  went  to  gather  grapes  in  his  vineyard 
His  wife,  imagining  that  he  would  be  absent  for  a  longer 
time  than  he  actually  was,  sent  hastily  for  her  gallant, 
While  they  were  together  the  knight  returned ;  for  it 
seems,  while  plucking  down  a  bunch  of  grapes,  he  had 
struck  out  an  eye,  and  came  home  in  great  agony.  The 
lady,  hearing  his  knock  at  the  gate,  was  much  perturW. 
and  immediately  concealed  her  lover.  The  knight  i-nrer- 
ing,  complained  of  his  wounded  eye,  and  directed  a  bed 
to  be  prepared,  that  he  might  lie  down.  But  the  wife, 
fearing  lest  the  gallant,  who  was  hidden  in  the  chamber, 
should  be  detected,  said,  "  Why  would  you  go  to  bed? 
toll  me  what  has  happened."  He  told  her.  "  My  dear 
lord,"  cried  she,  "  permit  me  to  strengthen  the  uninjured 
eye  by  medicinal  applications,*  or  the  diseased  part  may 
communicate  with  the  sound,  and  thereby  both  ts 
irremediably  injured."  The  knight  made  no  objection, 
and  his  wife  spreading  a  large  plaster  so  as  completely  to 
obstruct  his  sight,  beckoned  to  her  gallant,  who  escaped. 
Satisfied  with  her  successful  stratagem,  the  lady  ofcMr™ 
to  the  husband,  "  There,  dear !  now  I  feel  satisfied  thut 
your  sound  eye  will  take  no  injury.  Go  into  your  bed, 
and  sleep."  f 


APPLICATION'. 

My  beloved,  the  knight  is  a  prolate  of  the  Chnrch;'nP 
adulterous  wife  is  the  soul.  The  prelate's  eye  is  struck 
out  as  often  as  it  is  blinded  with  gifts. 


_ 


OF   CONFIDENCE    IN    WOMEN. 


TALE  CXXIII. 
OF  ABSENCE  OF  PARENTAL  RESTRAINT. 
A  soldier,  going  into  a  far  country,  intrusted  his  wife  to 
the  care  of  her  mother.  But  some  time  after  her  husband's 
departure  the  wife  fell  in  love  witft  a  young  man,  and 
communicated  her  wishes  to  the  mother.  She  approved 
of  the  connection,  and  without  delay  sent  for  the  object 
of  her  daughter's  criminal  attachment.  But  while  they 
fe&Bted,  the  soldier  unexpectedly  returned  and  beat  at  hia 
gate.  The  wife,  in  great  tremor,  con  coaled  the  lover  in 
her  bed,  and  then  opened  the  door  fcr  her  husband.  Being 
weary  with  travel,  he  commanded  his  bed  to  be  got  ready  ; 
and  the  wife,  more  and  more  disturbed,  knew  not  what 
she  should  do.  The  mother  observing  her  daughter's  per- 
plexity, said,  "  Before  you  go,  my  child,  let  us  show  your 
husband  the  fair  sheet  which  we  have  mado."  Then 
standing  up,  she  gave  one  corner  of  the  sheet  to  her 
daughter  and  held  the  other  herself,  extending  it  before 
him  so  as  to  favour  the  departure  of  the  lover,  who  took 
the  hint  and  escaped.  When  he  had  got  clearly  off,  "  Now," 
said  the  mother,  "  spread  the  sheet  upon  the  bed  with 
your  own  hands — we  have  done  our  parts  in  vieaming  it."  * 


APPLICATION, 


My  beloved,  the  soldier  is  any 
in  this  world.     The  wife  is  the  fcDnu , 
world ;  and  the  sheet,  worldly  vanities. 


who  is  a  wanderer 
the  mother  is  the 


A  cei 


TALE   CXXIV. 

OF  CONFIDENCE  IN   WOMEN. 


certain  noble  knight  had  grievously  offended  a  king 
iii  vassal  he  was.  Ho  sent  messengers  to  the  monarch 
itercede  for  him,  and  they  obtained  his  pardon,  but  on 
'his  fable  is  in  Alphonsua.     It  is  very  similar  to  the  \HtsQS&\\»4. 


221  QESTA  ROMANORUH. 

condition  that  lie  should  enter  the  senate-house  on  foot 
and  on  horseback  at  the  same  time ;  that  is,  half  walking, 
half  riding.  Moreover,  he  was  to  "bring  with  him  his 
most  attached  friend,  the  best  joculator  or  jester,*  and 
his  most  deadly  foe.  The  knight,  exceedingly  distressed, 
reflected  how  these  strange  conditions  were  to  be  fulfilled. 
t  One  night,  as  he  exercised  the  hospitality  of  his  mansion 
towards  a.  pilgrim,  he  said  privately  to  his  wife,  "  1  know 
those  pilgrims  often  carry  considerable  sums  of  money 
along  with  them.  If  you  think  fit,  let  us  kill  this  fellow, 
and  get  possession  of  his  money."  "  You  say  well,"  re- 
turned the  lady;  and  when  all  were  asleep,  at  an  early 
hour  in  the  morning,  the  knight  arose,  and  awaking  the 
pilgrim,  bade  him  begone.  He  then  slaughtered  a  calf, 
cut  it  into  small  pieces,  ai;d  placed  its  mutilated  body  in 
a  sack.  Arousing  his  wife,  he  gave  her  the  sack  to  hide 
in  a.  corner  of  the  house,  observing,  "  I  have  only  deposited 
the  head,  legs,  and  arms  in  the  sack ;  the  body  is  interred 
in  our  stable."  He  then  showed  her  a  little  money,  as  if 
he  had  taken  it  from  the  murdered  pilgrim. 

Now,  when  the  day  approached  on  which  he  was 
bound  to  appear  before  his  liege  lord,  he  took  upon  his 
right  hand  a  dog,  and  on  his  left  his  wife  and  unweaned 
child.  As  they  drew  near  the  royal  castle  he  put  one  leg 
over  the  back  of  the  dog,  as  if  ho  were  riding,  while 
with  the  other  he  walked;  and  thus,  as  a  pedestrian  and 
equestrian,  he  entered  the  palace.  When  the  king  ob- 
served his  cunning,  he  was  greatly  surprised.  "But," 
said  the  judge,  "where  is  your  most  attached  friend?" 
Instantly  unsheathing  his  falchion,  he  severely  wounded 
the  dog,  which  fled  howling  away.      The  knight   then 

•  The  Jocitlators  were  licensed  jesters.  "  Latin  terms  were  used 
by  the  Middle  Age  writers  so  li'juiiti'HislT,  mid  ■.villi  such  extreme 
carelessness,  that  in  many  cases  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  ft  precise  idea 
of  their  meaning.  Thus  the  jvsturs  and  minstrels  were  uidonnitely 
expressed  by  the  wind*  jvanljinr,  ,»-:trr-i.  tui'mas,  itiiiutraUut,  &c,  a 
practice  that  may  admit  of  justification,  when  we  consider  that  in 

■  arly  liirii:.-  I  lie  \,v'.-,-i  re  I 1  > .  1 1 1 !  ■  ■■•  ■  i  .■iinrm'l  ith  hi  re  snmctmirs  unite,  i 

ill  one  person.  It  must  be  allowed,  ii^wuver,  that  in  an  i'tvmoli>irt.til 
point  of  view,  tlit-  term  Jw.:ul'.iU>r  is  inueh  better  adapted  to  the  jester 
than  the  minstrel."— Docce,  On  the  CUmiis  and  Foolt  of  Shaktptart, 
vol.  u.  p.  307. 


OF  CONFIDENCE   IN   WOMEN.  22") 

called  to  him,  arid  the  dog  returned.  "  Here,"  said  he, 
"here  ie  the  most  faithful  of  all  friends."  "True,"  answered 
the  king ;  "  where  ie  your  jester  ?  "  "  Here  also,"  replied 
the  knight,  pointing  to  his  infant :  "  I  never  have  so  much 
pleasure  as  in  the  disportings  of  this  child."  "Well," 
continued  the  king,  "  where  is  your  worst  enemy?" 
Turning  toward  his  wife,  he  struck  her  a  violent  blow, 
wid  exclaimed,  "  Impudent  harlot,  how  darest  thou  look 
wantonly  upon  the  king?"  The  wife,  furious  at  the 
injustice  of  the  attaok,  shrieked  violently.  "  Cursed 
homicide,"  said  she,  "  why  dost  thou  smite  me  ?  Dost  thou 
forget  that,  in  thine  own  house,  thou  jierpetratedst  the  most 
atrocious  murder,  and  didst  kill  a  pilgrim  for  the  sake  of 
■  little  gold  ?  "  Again  the  knight  beat  her.  "  Wretch !  " 
»id  he,  "  why  dost  thou  not  fear  to  disgrace  thy  child  ?  " 
iQ  which  she  fiercely  replied,  "  Come  with  me,  and  I  will 
aver  to  you  where  the  head  and  arms  of  the  murdered 
i  have  been  deposited  in  a  sack;  the  body  he  has 
in  the  stable."  Search  was  accordingly  made ; 
'ad  digging  where  the  wife  directed,  they  were  astonished 
lo  find  manifest  tokens  of  a  call's  flesh.  The  attending 
"uihles,  recognizing  in  this  the  wit  of  the  mau,  greatly 
«tolled  him;  and  he  was  ever  after  exceedingly  valued 
aiiil  honoured  by  his  feudal  lord. 


My  beloved,  the  knight  is  any  sinner  who  finds  favour 
*ith  the  Lord  ;  and  who  upon  certain  conditions  pardons 
Ml  offences.  The  pedestrian  and  equestrian  condition  is 
Mr  nature,  partly  human  and  partly  celestial;  the  dog 
typifies  man's  good  angel,  or  a  priest,  who  is  wounded  an 
''lien  as  the  soul  sins.  The  joculator,  that  is,  tho  infant, 
"  Bwife  i£  the  flesh. 


QE8TA   ROMANORUM. 


TALE   CXXV. 


" 


I 


There  were  two  brothers,  of  whom  one  was  a  layman  anJ 
tho  other  a  parson.  The  former  had  often  heard  his 
brother  declare  that  there  never  was  a  woman  who  could 
keep  a  secret.*  He  had  a  mind  to  jiut  this  maxim  t ■>  &t 
test  in  the  person  of  his  own  wife,  and  one  night  he 
addressed  her  in  the  following  manner :  "  My  dear  wife, 
I  have  a  secret  to  communicate  to  you,  if  I  were  certain 
that  you  would  reveal  it  to  nobody.  Should  you  diviiijj* 
it,  it  would  cause  me  the  greatest  uneasiness  and  w 
ation."  "  My  lord,"  answered  his  wife,  "  fear  not;  we  are 
one  body,  and  your  advantage  is  mine.  In  like  mnuii'i- 
your  injury  must  deeply  affect  me."  "  Well,  then,"  said 
he.  "  know  that,  my  bowels  being  oppressed  to  an  eittf 
ordinary  degree,  I  fell  very  sick.  My  dear  wife,  win' 
will  you  think?  I  actually  voided  a  huge  black  mi*, 
which  iiiBtantly  took  wing,  and  left  me  in  the  greatest 
trepidation  and  confusion  of  mind."t  "Is  it  possible'" 
nskcd  tin1  innocent  lady;  ""  but,  husband,  why  should  this 
trouble  you  ?  You  ought  rather  to  rejoice  that  yon  ire 
freed  from  such  a  pestilent  tenant."  Here  the  conver- 
sation closed ;  in  the  morning,  the  wife  hurried  off  to  Hw 
house  of  a  neighlwur.  "  My  best  friend,"  said  she, "  n»3[ 
I  tell  you  a  secret  ? "  "  Ab  safely  its  to  your  own  soul, 
answered  the  fair  auditor.  "  Why,"  replied  the  etluT, 
"a  marvellous  thing  has  happened  to  ray  poor  liuabaml. 
Kiting  lust  night  extremely  nick",  he  voided  two  ]mwligi"l|s 
black  crows,  feathers  and  all,  which  immediately  fie* 
away.  I  am  much  concerned."  The  other  promis,  .1  w>' 
fiiithl'ully — and  immediately  told  her  neighbour  thn> 
three  black  crows  had  taken  this  most  alarming  S''1' 

*  In  thin  scuiidalmia  xtiiry,  the  monks  smii  to  have  inlrodiK— 
pnrxaii  for  the  .-also  of  ctivcvlii^  n  sperms  of  wisil.im  which  icwi'  '■■' 
with  his  situutiOTi.      lint  l-ln.'.v  wurv  j;iviit  monopolizers. 

t  "Cum  ad  privata  accesainsem  ut  opni  Datura  laoerem,  w"1 

iii^rrriiiiii.i  ,i  jmric  jmstiTorii  ivokilmt." 


OF    WOMEN  J   WHO    ARE    NOT   TO    BE   TRUSTED.     227 

The  next  edition  of  the  story  made  it  four;  and  in  this 
way  it  spread,  until  it  was  very  credibly  rejforted  that 
sixty  black  crows  had  been  evacuated  by  tine  unfortunate 
vnrlet.  But  the  joke  h;nl  gone  further  than  he  dreamt  of; 
he  became  much  disturbed,  and  assembling  his  busy 
neighbours,    explained    to    them    that    having  wished    to 

Erove  whether  or  not  his  wife  could  keep  a  secret,  he 
ad  made  such  a  com  mil  ui  cation.  Soon  after  this,  his 
wife  dying,  he  ended  hih  days  in  ■  cloister,  where  lie 
learnt  three  letters ;  of  which  one  was  black  ;  the  second, 
red;  and  the  third,  white.*  (16) 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  layman  is  any  worldly-minded  man 
who,  thinking  to  do  one  foolish  thing  without  offence, 
falls  into  a  thousand  errors.  But  he  assembles  the  people 
— that  is,  past  and  present  sins — and  by  confession  expur- 
gates 


TALE   CXXVI. 

OF  WOMEN;  WHO  ARE  NOT  TO  BE  TRUSTED. 
Macrobius(IT)  states  that  a  lioinan  youth,  named  Papirius, 
was  once  present  with  his  father  in  the  senate  at  a  time 
when  a  very  important  matter  was  debated,  which,  on 
pain  of  death,  woe  to  be  kept  secret.  When  the  lad 
returned  home,  his  mother  asked  him  what  it  was  that 
was  guarded  under  so  heavy  a  penalty.  He  replied  that 
it  was  unlawful  to  reveal  it.  The  mother,  little  satisfied 
with  the  boy's  reply,  entreated,  promised,  threatened,  and 
even  scourged  him,  in  the  hope  of  extorting  a  communica- 
tion. But  he  remained  inflexible;  and  at  hint,  willing  to 
satisfy  her,  and  yet  retain  his  secret,  said,  "  The  c 

*  This  fci-niM  mi-ri-lv  iiitmhir-f-d  to  tell  ii-,  in  tin-  uppliuition.  Hint 
Hi*  I. luck  letter  if  rtoollwtinu  of  out  sins;  the  red,  Christ'»  liluod-, 
nml  the  white,  Uiu  deeire  of  heaven. 


■22H  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

met  upon  this  matter :  whether  it  were  more  beneficial  -fc. 
the  state  that  one  man  should  have  many  wives,  or  on , 
woman   many  husbands."      The   mother   no   sooner  lien-T-^ 
this,  than  away  tslie  posted  to  divide  the  important  sect-e( 
wiih  other  Roman  daiues.     And  on  the  following  day, 
assembling  in  a  large  body,  they  went  without  hesitation 
to   the   senators,   earnestly    requesting    that   one  woman 
might  1«  married  to  two  men,  rather   than   two  women 
to  one  man.     The  senators,  astonished  at  the  shame]»» 
frenzy  of  a   sex   naturally  modest,   deliberated   upon  tin 
beet  remedy.     The  boy  Papirius,  finding  this,  related  ro 
them  the  circumstance  winch  had  occasioned  the  uproar; 
and  they,  bestowing  great  commendation  on  his  ingenuity, 
passed  a  decree  that  he  should  be  present  at  their  n" 
su!  lotions  whenever  he  would.* 


My  beloved,  the  boy  is  any  one  whose  life  is  p 
.e  father  is  a  prelate  ;  and  the' mother  is  the  world. 


TALE   C  XXVII. 

OF  JUSTICE  AND  EQUITY. 

A  certain  tyrannical  and  cruel  knight  retained  in  I'1' 
service  a  very  faithful  servant.  One  day,  when  1«  *» 
been  t"  the  market,  he  returned  with  this  servant  titlflP 
a  grove,  and  by  the  way  lost  thirty  silver  marks.  W 
soon  as  he  discovered  the  loss,  he  questioned  his  BSrfl* 
about  it.  The  man  solemnly  denied  all  knowledge  t>f  l!il 
matter,  and  he  spoke  truth.  But  when  the  money  ** 
not  to  be  found,  he  amputated  the  servant's  foot,  a"" 
leaving  him  in  that  place,  rode  home,  A  hermit.  hwi:'i.- 
the  groans  and  exclamations  of  the  man,  went  speed;'?' 
his  assistance.  He  confessed  bim;  and  being  satisfied"1 
*  Tfaientorv  has  been  modernized:  and  occurein  a  volume  eolith 
B'autiet  or'  Pcctry,  edited  by  a  Mr.  Melmotli,  «nd  prob»Uj  ia 
■lanj-  others. 


OF   JUSTICE   AND    EQUITV.  2i!) 

,  conveyed  him  upon  his  shoulders  to  hi» 
hermitage.  Then  entering  the  oratory,*  he  dared  to 
reproach  the  All-just  with  want  of  justice,  inasmuch  in 
hild  permitted  an  innocent  man  to  lose  his  foot.  1\ 
length  of  time  he  continued  in  tears,  and  prayer»,  and 
reproaches  ;  until  at  last  an  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  to 
him,  and  said,  "Hast  thou  not  read  in  the  Psalms,  'God  is 
a  just  judge,  strong  and  patient'?"  "Often,"  answered 
the  hermit  meekly,  "  have  I  read  and  believed  it  from  my 
heart;  but  to-day  I  have  erred.  That  wretched  man. 
whose  foot  has  been  amputated,  perhaps  under  the  veil  of 
confession  deceived  me."  "  Tax  not  the  Lord  with  in- 
justice," said  the  angel;  "His  way  is  truth,  and  His 
judgments  equitable.  Recollect  how  often  thou  hast  read, 
'The  decrees  of  God  are  unfathomable.'  Know  that  he 
who  lost  his  foot,  lost  it  for  a  former  crime.  With  t-ho 
same  foot  hi.'  malii-'iously  .spurned  his  mother,  and  cast  her 
from  a  chariot,  for  which  lie  has  never  done  worthy  penance. 
The  knight,  his  master,  was  desirous  of  purchasing  a  war 
horse,  to  collect  more  wealth,  to  the  destruction  of  his 
soul;  and  therefore,  hy  the  just  sentence  of  God,  the  money 
was  lost.  Now  hear;  there  is  a  very  poor  man  with  his 
wife  and  litt.lt-  onus,  who  daily  supplicate  Heaven,  and  per- 
form every  religious  exercise.  He  found  the  money,  when 
otherwise  he  would  have  starved,  and  therewith  procured 
for  himself  and  family  the  necessaries  of  life,  intrusting 
a  portion  to  his  confessor  to  distribute  to  the  poor.  But 
first  ho  diligently  endeavoured  to  find  out  the  right  owner. 
Not  accomplishing  this,  the  poor  man  applied  it  to  its 
proper  use.  Place,  then,  a  bridle  upon  thy  thoughts;  and 
no  more  upbraid  the.  ri^hlw.is  Disposer  of  all  things,  as 
thou  but  lately  didst.  For  he  is  true,  and  strong,  and 
patient."  f 

APPL1CATI08. 

My  bdoved,  the  knight  is  a  prelate ;  the  amputation 
of  the  servant's  foot  is  the  cutting  off  rebellion  from  the 

*  "  Oratoriu;  a  closet,  or  private  clmppell  to  pruy  in." — Cotgrave. 

t  This  story  lias  oome  resemblance  to  Tale  LXXX.,and  it  contaiiiii 

a  beuutiml  lusson. 


RK8TA.    RnMANiHH'M. 


Church.     The  hermit  is  n  prudent  confessor.     The  ari^-i  is 
a  pure  conscience.     The  poor  man  is  Christ. 


TALE    CXXVIII. 

OF    INJUSTICE. 

Iw  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Maximian  there  were  two 
knights,  of  whom  one  feared  God  and  loved  justice.  "hil>' 
the  other  was  covetous  and  rich,  and  more  studious  "I 
pleasing  the  world  than  his  Maker.  Contiguous  to  thin 
parson's  lands,  the  just  knight  had  a  piece  of  ground, 
which  his  avaricious  neighbour  ardently  desired  to  pos- 
sess. He  offered  large  sums  for  it ;  hut  being  denied,  he 
was  filled  with  vexation.  It  happened,  however,  th»t  the 
just  knight  died;  on  hearing  which,  the  other  forged  »n 
instrument  purporting  to  1»  written  by  the  deoMned 
knight.  It  stated  that  the  land  in  question  had  beon  sold 
for  a  specified  sum  a  short  time  previous  to  his  death; 
and  three  men  wore  hired  to  attest  it.  Having.  l>y  immi' 
means,  obtained  access  to  the  dead  knight,  he  Ltitrnduei'd 
the  witnesses  ;  and  finding  Ins  signet  in  the  hall  where  k 
lay,  took  it,  and,  fixing  it  upon  the  thumb  of  the  dweiwd, 
sealed  the  paper  with  the  usual  formalities.  "Youw* 
witnesses  of  this  deed?"  said  he  to  the  men  who  nm'"»' 
pauied  him.  "  We  are,"  answered  they ;  and  then  [Uiaai 
good  their  retreat,  the  knight  seized  upon  the  land.  The 
son  of  the  deceased  complained  grievously  of  lliis  injn^i'. 
"  Why  have  you  taken  possession  of  my  land?"  asked  he. 
"  It  was  sold  to  mo  by  your  father."  "  Impossible,"  <■""' 
the  other;  "  my  father  many  times  refused  to  sell  it;  »Dil 
that  he  afterwards  did  so,  I  will  never  believe."  They 
both  went  before  the  judge ;  and  the  covetous  Ysif^ 
triumphantly  produced  the  forged  instrument,  beuring ti^ 
impression  of  the  deceased's  signet-ring,  and  broil!?1' 
forward  the  ful.se  witnesses  to  the  scaling.  After  exiim"!" 
ing  it,  the  son  said,  "  I  know  that  this  is  my  father  i 
signet,  but.  I  know  also  that  he  never  disposed  01  the  &•" 
How  you  obtained  tho  signet  and  these  witnesses,  i  »B 


OF   INJUSTICE.  231 

ignorant."  The  judge,  after  some  deliberation,  took  each 
of  the  witnesses  aside  in  turn;  and  separately  examined 
them,  together  with  tlio  knight.  Ho  asked  the  eldest  if  he 
knew  the  Lord's  Prayer,  and  made  him  repeat  it  from 
beginning  to  end.'  He  did  this  accurately,  and  was  then 
placed  apart.  When  the  second  witness  appeared,  the 
judge  said,  "  My  friend,  your  companion  has  told  me  facts 
as  true  as  the  Lord's  Prayer  ;  therefore,  unless  you  inform 
me  what  I  demand,  you  shall  instantly  hang  upon  a  cross." 
The  fellow,  imagining  that  his  comrade  had  revealed  the 
fraud,  confessed  how  they  had  obtained  the  seal  to  the 
document.  When  the  communication  was  made,  he  placed 
him  apart;  and  sending  for  the  third,  spoke  to  him 
as  to  the  other,  and  threatened  him  with  the  like 
penalty,  unless  he  declared  the  fact.  This  man,  there- 
fore, corroborated  his  companion's  account,  and  was  than 
stationed  by  himself.  The  old  knight  was  then  called; 
and  the  judge,  putting  on  a  stem  aspect,  spoke  thus: 
"  Wretched  man  !  thy  avarice  hath  blinded  thee.  Tell  me 
how  the  deceased  knight  sold  you  the  land."  The  culprit, 
not  divining  that  the  truth  had  been  discovered,  boldly 
persevered  in  the  account  he  had  before  given.  "  Foolish 
man !  "  answered  the  judge,  "  thy  own  witnesses  accuse 
thee.  Didat  thou  not  place  the  signet  on  the  dead  man's 
thumb,  and  sign  the  paper?"  When  the  knight  found 
that  his  forgery  was  revealed,  he  fell  prostrate  upon  the 
earth,  and  entreated  mercy.  "Such  mercy  as  thou  ineritost, 
thou  shalt  have,"  said  the  judge  :  "  bear  them  away,  and 
drag  them  at  the  tails  of  horses  to  the  cross,  upon  which 
let  them  be  immediately  suspended."     The  noblemen  of 

*  Whether  this  was  the  usual  mods  of  ■dmlniatering  an  oath,  or 
whether  it  ia  only  of  the  number  of  those  whimsical  and  arbitrary 
circumstances  which  continually  occur  in  these  volumes,  I  am  unable 
toaajr. 

[The  objeet  of  making  the  man  repeat  the  Lord's  Prayer  is  toler- 
ably plain.  It  was  necessary  that  he  should  appear  to  be  making 
some  eontinuons  statement  to  the  judge,  to  induce  the  other  witness 
to  believe  that  the  forgery  «as  being  made  known.  It  was  of  DO  eon- 
sequence  what  be  siiiil  us  long  i,~  lie  appeared  to  say  something.  The 
false  witness  would  be  only  too  ready  to  show  his  knowledge  of  the 
Prayer,  with  Hie  view  of  manifesting  his  piety  to  the  judge.  Why 
then    should    this    be    called    a   "  whimsical    jinl     arbitrary    oircuiii- 


232  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

the  kingdom  applauded  the  sentence,  not  less  than  the 
ingenuity  of  the  investigation.  The  property  of  the  unjust 
knight  was  conferred  upon  the  son  of  him  whom  he  hid 
wished  to  wrong ;  the  young  man  gave  thanks  to  the  king, 
and  possessed  his  inheritance  in  peace." 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  two  knights  are  the  devil  and  our 
first  parent,  whose  sou  is  the  whole  human  race.  Ton 
inheritance  is  Paradise;  the  forged  writing,  original  sin: 
and  the  seal,  Adam's  eonsont  to  partake  with  Eve  of  the 
Unbidden  tree.  The  three  witnesses  are  the  pride  of  tik-, 
concupiscence  of  the  flesh,  and  concupiscence  of  the  eyes. 


TALE  CXXIX. 

OF   REAL    FRIENDSHIP. 

A  certain  king  had  an  only  son,  whom  he  much  loved. 
The  young  man  was  desirous  of  seeing  the  world  and 
making  friends  for  himself,  and  obtained  his  father's  per- 
mission to  this  end.  After  an  absence  of  seven  years,!  he 
returned,  and  his  father,  overjoyed  at  his  arrival,  ask»1 
what  Mends  he  had  acquired.  "Three,"  said  the*"1; 
•'  the  first  of  whom  I  love  more  than  myself ;  the  second. 
equally  with  myself;  and  the  third,  little  or  nothing 
"  You  say  well,"  returned  the  father ;  "  but  it  is  a  P*"* 
thing  to  prove  them  before  you  stand  in  need  of  tWr 
assistance.  Therefore  kill  a  pig.  put  it  into  a  sack,  oi 
go  at  night  to  the  house  of  him  whom  you  lovo  best,airJ 
say  that  you  have  accidentally  killed  a  man,  and  if  "& 
body  should  be  found  you  will  be  condemned  to  a" 
ignominious  death.  Entreat  him,  if  he  ever  1  ived  )'{M< 
to  give  his  assistance  in  this  extremity."     The  son  did 

*  The  eximiiiiulien  "f  liif  ful^t  wiinessc*  in  this  story  will  n*-;l;'' 
tin;  render  of  toe  mode  by  which  the  wickedness  of  the  dJr»  "** 
iliwoverml  in  the  Apocrypha. 

t  The  moral  says  twelve;  meaning,  however,  the  lerni  of  li'iii>"a 


OF   REAL   FRIENDSHIP.  233 

so;  and  the  friend  answered,  "Since  you  have  rashly 
destroyed  a  man,  you  must  pay  the  penalty  :  for  if  the 
body  were  found  in  my  house  I  should  very  likely  I» 
crucified.  Now,  because  you  were  my  friend,  I  will  go 
with  you  to  the  cross,  and  bestow  upon  you  three  or  four 
ells  of  cloth,  to  wrap  your  body  in  when  you  are  dead." 
The  youth,  hearing  this,  went  in  much  indignation  to  the 
second  of  his  friends,  and  related  the  same  story.  Ho 
received  him  like  the  first,  and  said,  "  Do  you  believe  me 
mad,  that  I  should  expose  myself  to  such  peril '!  But, 
since  I  have  called  you  my  friend,  I  will  accompany  you 
to  the  cross,  and  console  you  as  much  as  possible  upon  the 
way.  The  priuce  then  went  to  the  third,  and  said,  "  I  am 
ashamed  to  address  you,  for  I  have  never  benefited  you 
in  any  way:  but,  alas  !  I  have  mx-iduiitiilly  slain  a.  man, 
and  must  hide  the  body  or  perish."  "My  friend," 
answered  the  other,  "I  will  readily  do  what  you  wish, 
and  take  the  crime  on  myself;  and,  should  it  he  necessary. 
I  will  he  crucified  for  your  sake."  This  man,  therefore, 
proved  that  he  was  his  friend.* 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  God;  the  only  son  is  any 
Christian.  The  first  friend  is  tho  world  ;  and  if  it  gives, 
in  your  necessity,  two  or  three  ells  of  cloth,  it  is  much 
indeed.  The  second  friend  is  your  wife,  and  sons,  anil 
daughters ;  they  will  bewail  you  to  your  sepulchre,  but 
tsooii  forget  you  after  you  are  laid  there. "f    The  third  friend 

*  This  stray  is  in  Alphonsus.  "  It  is  remarkable  tlmt  I.e  Grand, 
ua   well  ad  Barbazan,  aeenie   to  have  kimwu  u'lthinj,'  nhuut  Putrus 

Alphonsus,  whom  In:  olussirs,  miilur  hi,-  Fiiriicliiiird  mime  of  Pierre 
Anfurs.  aiunii^ht  ilu:  NnriniLii  inMeours." — Doijck. 

t  Massing!:!1  hu.-=  11  tfjiilLmniit  =o  .-imilur,  tlmt  if  |1il-  eiperience  uf 
nil  uges  were  not  alike,  one  might  fancy  tliat  thu  poet  had  borrowed 
from  tbo  monk. 

"  WlicQ  dead,  we  are 
With  solisuin  pump  Lron^lit  lin-lu-r,  ;ni'i  our  heira, 
Masking  their  joy  ill  1'aUu  ili.-^eiiibled  tears, 
Weep  o'er  Uit  hearse  :  hut  cinth  no  euouer  covers 
The  earth  brought  hither,  but  they  turn  away 
With  inward  smiles — tin:  ibnul  m.  ummc  n  me  inhered." 

The  Maid  of  Honour,  &.«,  W.  \&i&.  V 


t  GKRTA   ROMANOJIUM. 

is  Christ,  for  whom  we  have,  done  little,  who  loves  n 
upon  the  cross,  and  joyfully  gave  away  His  life  for  o    - 


TALE  CXXX. 

OF    WISDOM,   WHICH    EXCELS   STRENGTH. 


Tiietif,  was  St  king  who  promoted  a  poor  man  to  prwt 
wealth,  and  committed  to  him  the  custody  of  one  of  ni« 
castles.  Thus  elevated,  ho  became  proud  to  an  excess, «ml 
conspired  against  the  king,  and  surrendered  his  castle  into 
the  hands  of  the  enemy.  This  conduct  gave  the  kinj: 
great  concern  ;  and  he  deliberated  upon  the  bait  mean**' 
regaining  what  he  had  lost.  But  ho  was  told  that  this 
could  not  he  done  but  by  the  possession  of  three  things, 
viz.  bravery,  wisdom,  and  the  love  of  his  subject*:.  No* 
there  were  at  that  time  in  the  kingdom  three  knights,  of 
whom  the  first  was  the  bravest  of  all  men ;  the  hwA 
the  wisest ;  and  the  third,  the  most  attached  to  the  king- 
Those  knights  were  severally  sent  with  largo  anniw  to 
hesiege  the  castle.  The  bravest  knight  conducted  hi* 
troops  through  a  forest,  in  which  the  king's  cnemii* 
awaited  him;  but  while  he  was  performing  prodigies  of 
valour,  an  arrow  from  a  cross-bow  struck  him  in  the  gr<»n, 
and  he  died  of  the  wound.  In  the  mean  time  tlie  ■*"* 
knight  brought  up  his  forces  and  t>egan  to  speak  of  right 
and  law,  hoping  by  these  moans  to  draw  them  to  Mirni''1' 
the  castle.  But  while  he  spoke,  an  arrow  penetn» 
between  the  lungs  and  the  stomach,  and  killed  him.  The 
third  knight,  perceiving  (he  death  of  his  comrades,  cnt«!™ 
the  forest,  and  spoke  so  eloquently  and  wittily  to  the  in- 
surgents, thai  they  listened  gladly,  and  at  hist  pantiW' 
him  to  enter  the  castle.  And  he  so  ordered  mattei*  dm' 
the  opposing  armies  joined  with  him,  and  gave  hiin  entiH 
possession  ;  so  that  he  planted  his  standard  on  the  ton. 
When  the  king  understood  how  prudently  he  had  obtain™ 
the  disputed  fortress,  he  promoted  him  to  great  honcui». 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  poor  man  who  was 
raised  to  honour  is  Adam,  appointed  the  seneschal  of  a 
castle,  that  is,  of  Paradise.  The  first  and  bravest  knight 
is  the  rich  and  powerful  of  the  world,  whom  the  arrow  of 
pride  spiritually  slays.  The  second  knight  denotes  the 
wise  or  pnidnit  of  tnie  WOrM,  and  they  are  slain  by  the 
arrow  of  avarice.  The  third  knight  is  any  Christian  who 
loves  God  with  all  bis  heart ;  and  who,  in  his  simplicity, 
is  often  a  match  for  the  more  cunning  of  mankind. 


TALE    CXXXI. 


OF   RICHES. 


A  kino  issued  a  proclamation  that  whosoever  would  come 
to  him  should  obtain  all  they  asked.  The  noble  and  the 
rich  desired  dukedoms,  or  counties,  or  knighthood ;  and 
somo,  treasures  of  silver  and  gold.  But  whatsoever  they 
desired  they  had.  Then  came  the  poor  and  the  simple,  and 
solicited  a  like  boon.  "  Ye  come  tardily,"  said  the  king  ; 
"  the  noble  and  the  rich  have  already  been,  and  have 
carried  away  all  I  possess."  This  reply  troubled  them 
exceedingly  ;  and  the  king,  moved  with  a  feeling  of  pity, 
said,  "  My  friends,  though  I  have  given  away  all  my 
temporal  possessions,  I  have  still  the  sovereign  power ; 
for  no  one  required  this.  I  appoint  ye,  therefore,  to  be 
their  judges  and  masters."  When  this  came  to  the  ears 
of  the  rich,  they  were  extremely  disturbed,  and  said  to  the 
king,  "  My  lord,  we  are  greatly  troubled  at  your  appoint- 
ing these  poor  wretches  our  nilcvu ;  it,  were  better  for  us 
to  die,  than  admit  such  servitude."  "  Sirs,"  answered  the 
king,  "  I  do  you  no  wrong :  *  whatever  you  asked  I  gave  ; 
insomuch  that  nothing  remains  to  me  but  the  supreme 
power.    Nevertheless,  I  will  give  you  counsel.    Whosoever 


GESTA    noMASORUM. 


of  you  has  enough  to  support  life,  let  him  bestow  tlie 
superfluity  upon  these  poor  people.  They  will  then  Hw 
honestly  and  comfortably,  and  upon  these  conditions  1  «ill 
resume  the  sovereignty  and  keep  it,  while  you  avoid  tlw 
servitude  ye  apprehend."     And  thus  it  was  done." 


AITUCATIOI. 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  God  ;  the  herald  is  a.  preacher: 
the  ricb,  etc.,  are  the  men  of  thia  world,  and  the 
the  poor  in  spirit. 


TALE  CXXXII. 

OF  ENVY  TOWARD  THE  GOOD. 


There  once  lived  in  the  same  city  four  physicians,  *™ 
skilled  in  medicine.  The  younger  of  them,  however, 
excelled  the  other  three;  insomuch  that  the  sick  «W 
only  to  him.  This  excited  the  envy  of  the  rest,  »i« 
talking  together  upon  thin  subject,  they  said,  "  How  sli«U 
we  get  rid  of  that  troublesome  fellow  ?  everybody  Htt> 
to  him,  and  our  gains  are  a  mere  trifle."  "  Why"  Eii'l 
one,  "  you  know  he  goes  every  week  on  a  visit  to  tlw 
duke,  about  three  leagueB  off,  and  he  will  pay  a  visii 
there  to-morrow.  Now,  I  will  go  a  league  beyond  th< 
city,  and  there  await  his  coming.  You  shall  bo  sitiit.it.ritJ 
at  the  second  league,  and  our  fellow  here  at  the  thiw 
And  when  he  has  advanced  the  first  league.  I  will  nif' 
him  and  make  the  sign  of  the  cross  before  him.    Both"' 

*  [It  nmy  li'  double  J  whrlher  I  lit-  author  til'  tin*  remarkable  f»W', 
liuil  tiny  intention  of  putting  innvaiil  ii  political  theory  by  mean1"1 
it,  Nevertheless  u  communistic  ideal  ivas  bv  no  means  ernilrar» L" 
the  spirit  of  tho  Church  in  the  Middle  Ages.  The  Chan*  of  90* 
being,  so  to  speak,  a  theO0M>U*ed  Ciosarism,  hM  always  lunl  MmH* 
able  sympathy  with  tho  mafia  of  the  people.  It  was  until  the  Mff 
41li.n1  a  despotism  with  democratic  leanings  and  republican  ini-iii'1' 
lions;  for  any  jiriiM.  however  poor,  might  become  pope,  if  an  »W' 
But  it  oertaiiilv  sounds  strange  to  find  a  14th  ceutury  uij.  '•>  * 
ith  Dr.  Kail  Man.— Ed.] 


OF   SPIRITUAL    FRIENDSHIP.  237 

yoti  nrnst  do  the  like.  He  will  then  ask  the  reason  of 
this,  and  we  will  answer,  '  Because  you  are  a  leper ; '  and 
his  fear  will  certainly  occasion  it :  '  for,'  says  Hippocrates, 
"he  who  fears  leprosy  will  through  fear  become  a  leper.* 
Thus  diseased,  no  one  will  approach  him."     And  so  it  was 


My  beloved,  by  the  three  physicians,  who  infected  the 
fourth,  three  vices  arc  signified—  the  devil,  the  world,  and 
the  flesh.      The  fourth  physician  is  a  good  Christian, 


TALE  CXXXIII. 

OF   SPIRITUAL    FRIENDSHIP. 

A  king  had  two  greyhounds,  whom  he  kept  alternately 
chained  up.  As  long  as  they  were  thus  fastened  they 
mutually  loved  and  fawned  upon  each  other,  but  no 
sooner  were  they  unloosed  than  they  exhibited  the  most 
deadly  signs  of  mutual  hostility.  The  king  was  much 
concerned  at  this ;  because  when  he  would  have  coursed 
with  them,  and  for  that  purpose  set  them  at,  liberty,  they 
fought  so  fiercely  that  he  was  unable  to  follow  his  sport. 
This  led  him  to  consult  some  learned  man,  who  recom- 
mended that  the  first  of  the  dogs  should  be  encountered 
by  a  strong  and  savage  wolf:  and  then  the  second  should 
lie  encouraged  to  the  attack  when  his  companion  was 
in  danger  of  being  defeated.  For  when  the  first  saw 
how  the  other  aided  him,  they  would  in  future  be  friends. 
This  was  accordingly  done:  and  as  the  strength  of  the 
first  dog  failed,  the  second  was  let.  loose,  who,  after  a 
severe  struggle,  killed  the  wolf.     From  this  time,  bound 

*  [Compare  the  story  in  the  Hitopadesa,  entitled  "  The  Brahman 
and  the  (ioat"  in  which  three-  !;n;n cs  nhisiirt  »  pint  from  n.  Brahmin 
n  ho  wan  carrying  it  on  hi*  i-linuM,-^  l.y  mjfi'twivcly  listing  him  why 
he  carried  a  do;;  fthe  do«  ln-iris;  »u  imclumi  iniimal).  See  Urn 
lluok    of  Good  CwianU,  by  Kilwin  Arnold,  p.  130.— £d."\ 


QESTA   ROWAHOBUH. 


tlie    most    perfect 


or   unbound,    thoy  lived    togethei 
friendship. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ;  the  two  dogs  are thn 
soul  and  body.  If  loosed  by  mortal  sin,  they  are  at  war. 
The  wolf  is  the  devil,  which  being  overcome,  11107  live 
together  in  peace. 


TALE  CXXXIV. 

OF   CHRIST,    WHO    DIED    INNOCENT. 

Seneca'  relates  that  there  was  a  law  in  some  city.  5? 
which  a  knight  was  obliged  to  be  buried  in  armour;  aud 
further,  that  it  was  ordained  if  any  one  deprived  tin;  &?■"■ 
man  of  this  armour,  he  should  bo  put  to  death.  I' 
happened  that  a  certain  city  was  besieged  by  a  tyiannW 
despot,  who.  {limiting  a]ii!>usc;ides  and  pitfalls  around  tlw 
tity,  destroyed  an  indefinite  number  of  the  inh;iUi[i"h 
Fear  made  them  incapable  of  longer  resistanee ;  and,  while 
thus  situated,  a  noble  and  valiant  knight  entered  the 
city,  and  compassionated  the  distresses  of  the  despairing 
citizens.  They  humbly  petitioned  him  to  undertake  il'':r 
defence,  and  free  them  from  the  imminent  peril  in  which 
they  stood.  "  My  friends,"  replied  he,  "  this  cannot  te 
done,  except  by  a  strong  hand;  and  you  perceive  I  W 
unarmed.  It  is  in  vain,  therefore,  to  expect  that  I  shuul'l 
go  out  to  fight."  "  My  lord,"  observed  one  of  the  cit.iw'i" 
"  but  a  few  days  since  a  knight  was  buried  in  ft* 
sepulchre,  clad  in  most  admirable  armour  ;  take  it,  P1' 
save  our  city."  The  knight  assented,  received  the  an"* 
of  the  deceased,  and,  encountering  the  enemy,  put  them 

*  Seneca  in  eitetl  here,  but  I  can  give,  no  ri'iVruti ■::•.  The  aw*  '" 
B  very  singular  one.  In  tliiioli)  KiiirHnli  IJt.'lii  [see  tlie  Intnnii"'1'"11- 
it  [ihjiis  tliu  ■'  Sen-nth  Itijslnni ,- "'  ntl.liniisli  tin)  termmaiion  u  *'<"' 
wlial-  diffureiit.  Tlir  luiiuht'H  |il.n<lin-  i.-i  suixviinfiil  with  Ww  .r  — 
hut  the  aceiia<_'ia.  lukini;  npun  tliemsuhta  die  Execution  of  tb*  i**1 
slay  hiui  ia  is  [J  [mail  km  tu  till  juatico. 


OP    CONSCIENCE.  239 

to  flight.  He  then  restored  the  arms  to  their  original 
position.  But  certain  men,  envious  of  the  fame  which  ho 
acquired  by  the  exploit,  accused  him  before  the  judge  of 
having  despoiled  tlio  dead  of  his  armour  contrary  to  law. 
"My  lord,"  answered  he,  "of  two  evils,  the  greater  is  to 
be  avoided.*  Now,  I  could  not  defend  your  city  without 
armour  ;  and  having  taken  that  of  tlic  dee-jawed.  1  returned 
it  when  the  exigence  had  ceased.  A  thief  would  not  have 
acted  in  this  manner ;  he  would  have  kept  the  arms,  which 
I  did  not.  and  therefore  merit  rather  recompense  than 
charges  of  Much  a  nature.  Besides,  if  a  house  he  on  fire  in 
the  midst  of  a  city,  would  it  not  he  better  that  that  single 
dwelling  should  be.  without  delaj  ,  comnh-rdy  destroyed, 
before  other  houses  catch  lire  and  the  whole  city  is  burnt 
to  the  ground?  Apply  this  in  my  case.  Was  it  not  more 
beneficial  that  I  should  preserve  your  town  by  borrowing 
the  armour  than,  by  not  borrowing,  endanger  all  your 
lives?"  "Away  with  him,  away  with  him,"  shouted 
they  who  were  jealous  and  envious  of  his  fame;  "he 
deserves  death  ;  away  with  him  !  "  The  judge  could  not 
resist  their  urgent  petition,  and  condemned  him  to  death. 
The  sentence  was  accordingly  executed,  and  the  whole 
state  lamented  him  with  unfeigned  regret. 


My  beloved,  the  besieged  city  is  the  world.  The 
knight  without  arms  is  Christ ;  the  armour  is  His  hu- 
manity. The  envious  men  axe  Jews,  who  put  Him  to 
death. 


TALE    CXXXV. 

OF   CONSCIENCE. 
AuoosTrsE    relates,    in     his    work    De    CinitaU    Dei.    that 
Lucretia,  a  noble  Roman  lady,  was  the  wife  of  Oalatinus.f 
The  latter  invited  to  his  castle   Sextus,  the  son  of  the 


De   duobua    nuilia   mujua    malum   eat     vitaiidum."       Here    i 
r  English  proverb,  "  01"  two  evils,  uhuae  the  luast," 
t  Meaning  OeUatbiK*. 


240 


GESTA    ROMAN'ORVM. 


Emperor  Tarquinius,  who  became  violently  enamoured  of 
his  beautiful  wife.  Selecting  a  seasonable  opportunity, 
when  both  Calatinus  and  the  emperor  had  departed  from 
Home,  he  returned  to  the  above-mentioned  castle,  and  slept 
there.  During  the  night,  not  as  a  friend  but  foe,  he 
secretly  entered  the  bed-chamber  of  Lucretia,  and  putting 
one  hand  upon  her  brenst,  while  he  held  a  drawn  sword 
in  the  other,  said,  "  Comply  with  my  wishes,  or  I  will  kill 
you."  But  she  resolutely  repelled  him ;  and  Sestus, 
enraged,  assured  her  that  he  would  stab  a  slave  and  place 
him  in  her  bed.   so    that  the  world   should   believe   her 

f;ni!ty  of  the  most  low-lived  and  flagrant  wickedness.  At 
*st  Scxtus,  accomplishing  his  villainy,  went  away ; 
and  the  lady,  full  of  the  deepest  grief,  despatched  letters 
to  her  father  and  husband,  to  her  brothers,  to  the  emperor, 
together  with  the  proconsuls ;  and  when  they  were  all 
present  she  spoke  thus:  "Not  as  a  friend,  but  as  a 
foe.  Sextus  entered  my  house.  Calatinus,  your  bed  has 
known  the  garments  of  a  stranger;"  but  though  my 
body  is  violated,  my  mind  is  innocent.  Acquit  me  of 
crime,  and  T  will  provide  lny  own  punishment."  At 
these  words,  snatching  a  sword  which  she  had  hidden 
beneath  her  robe,  she  plunged  it  into  her  breast.  The 
assembled  friends,  taking  up  the  weapon,  swore  by  the 
hlood  of  the  injured  Lucretia  to  drive  the  family  of  the 
Tarquins  from  Koine.  And  they  did  so.  As  for  Sextus, 
the  author  of  this  tragedy,  he  was  miserably  slaughtered 
not  long  after,  f 

*  "  Scius  til,  O  On  Inline,  retliwnla  riri  olii-ni  in  /fcf.i  luofuit"  ,*" 
a  refined  expression,  ami  link  ;ira'"rcliii~  with  the  usual  indelicacy  of 
the  iLjte. 

[If  Mr.  Swan  had  turner]  to  his  1. ivy  he  wind. 1  I  here  have  found 
the  eituse  of  litis  unusual  "  refinement."  The  passage  is  nothing  but 
h  distorted  echo  ;>f  iiio  well-kmiwn  "  vosti^-ia  viri  alieni,  Collatine,  in 
Icrtn  sunt  tuo  "  (Lii:  i.  57,  58}.— Ed.] 

t  This  story  is  from  St.  Austin's  Citi,  of  God. 

"  A  more  rlas.-i''al  authority  for  this  story,  had  it  been  at  hand, 
would  have  Keen  slighted  for  St.  Austin's  I  >ity  of  Coo,  which  was  the 
favourite  s;ii ritual  romance  ;  and  whii'h.as  ihe  tr.ovsiHou  from  re!iu-i"" 
to  pallnntry  was  aueieutly  very  easy,  frave  rise  l.e  the  famous  -ill 
Ftench  romance,  c.dleil  the  City  <ii  Ladies."— IVaktoS. 


OF   VIGILANCE   IN   OUR   CALLING  2il 

APPLICATION 

My  beloved,  Lucretia  is  the  aoul;  Sextus  is  the  devil; 
and  the  castle  represents  the  heart,  into  which  he  enters. 
The  sword  is  penifenoe. 


TALE  CXXXVI. 

OF  VIGILANCE  IN   OUR  CALLING. 

A  thief  went  one  night  to  the  house  of  a  rich  man,  and 
scaling  the  roof,  peeped  through  a  hole  to  examine  if  any 
part  of  the  family  were  yet  stirring.  The  master  of  the 
house,  suspecl'iiig  soriif.-tiiirig,  said  secretly  to  his  wife, 
"  Ask  me  in  a  loud  voice  how  I  acquired  the  property  I 
possess,  and  do  not  desist  until  J  bid  you."  The  woman 
complied,  and  began  to  vociferate,  "My  dear  husband, 
pray  tell  me,  since  you  never  were  a  merchant,  how  you 
obtained  all  the  wealth  which  you  have  now  collected." 
"  Foolish  woman,"  answered  her  husband,  "do  not  ask 
such  questions."  But  sin-  pcisi^teil  in  her  inquiries;  and 
at  length,  as  if  overcome  by  her  urgency,  lie  Maid,  "  Keep 
what  I  am  going  to  tell  you  a  secret,  and  your  curiosity 
shall  be  gratified." 

"  Oh,  trust  me." 

"  Well,  then,  you  must  know  that  I  was  a  thief,  and 
obtained  what  I  now  enjoy  by  nightly  depredations." 
"It  IB  strange,"  said  the  wife,  "that  you  were  never 
taken."  "  Why,"  replied  he,  "  my  master,  who  was  a 
skilful  clerk,  taught  me  a  particular  word,  which,  when 
I  ascended  the  tops  of  people's  houses,  I  pronounced  seven 
times,  and  then  got  down  into  the  house  by  the  rays  of 
the  moon  and  took  what  I  wanted,  and  then  in  like 
manner  ascended  again  without  danger  and  departed." 
'•  Tell  me,  I  conjure  you,"  returned  the  lady,  "  what  that 
powerful  word  was."  "  Hear,  then ;  but  never  mention 
it.  again,  or  we  shall  lose  all  our  property."  "  He  sure  of 
that,"  said  the  lady ;  "  it  shall  nevor  be  repeated." 


242 


fiESTA    KOMANOIU'M. 


"  It  was — is  thero  no  one  within  hearing? — the  mightj 
word  won  '  Saxlrm.'  " 

Tho  lady,  uppireutly  quite  satisfied,  foil  asleep;  and 
her  husband  feigned  it.  Ho  snored  lustily,  und  the  thief 
above,  who  had  heard  their  conversation  with  mticb 
pleasure,  attempting  to  take  hold  of  a  moon-ray  «id 
rotating  tlio  charm  seven  times,  relaxed  tho  hold  Wii"l 
hands  and  ftt;t,  mid  let.  himself  drop  through  the  skylight. 
He  fell  with  a  loud  thud,  and  in  the-  fall  disWietl  hi»  h 
and  arm,  and  lay  halt'  dead  upon  tlic  floor.  The  oivmrcl 
the  mansion,  hearing  the  noise,  and  well  knowing  dm 
reason,  though  ho  [u-elended  ignorance,  asked  what  »'»" 
the  matter.      "Oh!"  groaned  the   suffering  thief,  "d» 


words  of  your  tale  have  deceived  n 
him,  and  had  him  suspended  o 


The  r, 


i  the  morning. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  tho  thiof  is  tho  devil ;  the  house  is  the 
human  heart.  The  man  is  a  good  prelate,  and  his  wife  i> 
tho  Church. 


TALE  CXXXVIL 

OF    CHRIST'S   CLEMENCY. 

In  the  chronicles  of  Kusebius  we  read  of  an  emperor  «no 
governed  the  Roman  people  with  the  greatest  equity, 
sparing  none,  whether  rich  or  poor;  but  measuring  i'1-' 
punishment  according  to  the  extent  of  the  crime,  Tw> 
factious  senators,  however,  deposed  him,  and  obliged  «■> 
to  flee  in  poverty  from  the  kingdom.  Immediately  he  fM 
to  Constantino,  and,  entering  into  a  close  compact  vriifi 
him,  on  all  occasions  conducted  himself  so  boldly  and  pr"" 
doutly,  that  ho  succeeded  him  to  the  sovereignty  oi  fi"' 
umpire.     Then  assembling  an  army,  he  besieged  thu  oi1,*' 


OF   SEVERITY.  243 

of  Rome ;  and,  when  the  Romans  were  unable  to  escape, 
but  were  always  captured  by  hiin,  the  people  sent  out  to 
him  their  senators,  and  young  men  and  women,  with  their 
feet  bare,  who  prostrated  themselveM  before  him,  and 
humbly  requested  tin:  forgiveness  which  he  refused  to 
grant.  At  length  they  despatched  his  parents,  who  were 
resident  in  the  city,  alone  upon  this  embassy.  His  mother 
wept  and  entreated  ;  conjuring  him  by  the  breasts  which 
he  had  sucked,  to  spare  the  place  of  bis  nativity.  Unable 
to  resist  the  force  of  natural  affection,  he  pardoned  on  her 
account  their  offences.  He  then  marched  into  the  city, 
and  was  honourablv  entertained.* 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ ;  the  city  is  the 
human  heart,  from  which  Ho  is  expelled  ;  Constantino  is 
God ;  the  senators,  etc.,  are  the  prophets,  and  patriarchs, 
and  apostles. 


TALE  CXXXVIII. 

OF   SEVERITY,   WHICH   AVAILS    LESS   THAN    KINDNESS. 

A  certain  king,  named  Medrus,  had  an  only  son.  whom  he 
constituted  his  heir.  The  son  was  ungrateful  to.his  father, 
who  punished  him  by  immediate  disinherison.  The  son, 
thus  circumstanced,  tied  to  the  King  of  the  Persians,  the 
rival  and  enemy  of  his  parent.  He  stated  that  he  was 
ready  to  serve  him  to  the  death  ;  and  declared  himself 
ready  to  make  war  upon  the  author  of  his  being.  War 
was  accordingly  declared,  and  they  fought  iogcthor  for 
some  time  with  equal  fortune.  It  happened  that  Medrus 
the  king  was  grievously  wounded,  and  tlie  blood  flowed 
very  copiously.  No  sooner  had  his  sun  perceived  this,  and 
reflected  on  it,  (hen  lie.  straightway  hurried  lo  his  father's 
side,  and  attacking  the  troops  of  the  Persian   monarch, 


*  We  liave  here  a  new  version  of  the  story  of  Coriolnnua. 


-2ii 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


put  them  to  flight.  After  this,  of  course,  the  compact  was 
made  void ;  and  the  son,  returning  to  his  father,  meekly 
sought  forgiveness,  and  obtained  it.  Thus,  peace  being 
established,  he  was  again  constituted  his  father's  heir. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  two  kings  are  God  and  the  devil.  The 
Bon  is  the  human  soul,  which  Christ  (who  is  God),  by  the 
effusion  of  His  blood,  redeemed. 


TALE  CXXSIX. 

OF   THE   SOUL'S   WODNDS. 


le  world.     He 


Alexander  the  Great  was  lord  of  the  whole  world.  He 
once  collected  a  large  army,  and  besieged  a  certain  city, 
«round  which  many  kiiijiliis  and  others  were  killed  with- 
11  tit  any  visible  wound.  Much  surprised  at  this,  he  called 
together  his  philosophers,  and  said,  "  My  masters,  how  is 
this  ?  My  soldiers  die,  and  there  is  no  apparent  wound  !  " 
"  No  wonder,"  replied  they  ;  "  on  the  walls  of  a  city  is  a 
basilisk,  (18)  whose  look  infects  your  soldiers,  and  they 
die  of  the  pestilence  it  creates."  "  And  what  remedy  is 
there  for  this  ?  "  said  the  king. 

"  Place  a  mirror  in  an  elevated  situation  between  the 
army  and  the  wall  where  the  basilisk  is;  and  no  sooner 
shall  he  behold  it,  than  his  own  look,  reflected  in  the 
mirror,  will  return  upon  himself,  and  kill  him."    And  so  it 

*  "  CElinn,  in  his  FflnV.i»  iTishirii,  nif-T>l.ione  a  serpent,  which, 
appearing  from  the  mouth  of  a  cavern,  stopped  the  march  of  Alex- 
ander's army  through  a  spacious  desert,  The  mid  beasts,  serpents, 
and  birds,  which  Alexander  t-ne.-nmtered  in  mari'liinc  through  India, 
wure  most  extravagantly  in  mixing  I  by  tin»  oriental  fabulists,  and  form 
the  chief  wonder.-  .if  Unit  in.inar.'h'r  romance."-  -Warton. 

Amongst  1:ie  fabulous  monsters  of  old  romance,  the  Gn,iFFi(dis- 
tinguished  from  tho  Griffin,  or  (jryiihun)  seems  to  be  pre-em merit. 
In  an  old  and  very  rare  Fietich  iumaui;e  there  is  a  curious  description 


My  beloved,  look  into  the  glass  of  reflection,  and,  by 
remembrance  of  human  frailty,  destroy  the  vices  which 
time  elicit». 


TALE     CXL. 

OF  EQUITY. 


The  Emjieror  Heraclius,  amongst  many  other  virtues,  was 
remarkable  for  his  inflexible  justice.  It  happened  that  a 
certain  man  accused  a  knight  of  the  murder  of  another 
knight,  in  this  form  : — "  They  two  went  out,  in  company 
with  another,  to  war ;  but  no  battle  was  fought.  He,  how- 
ever, returned  without  his  companion ;  and,  therefore,  we 
believe  that  ho  murdered  him."  The  king  appeared  satis- 
fied with  the  inference,  and  commanded  the  prisoner  to  be 
executed.  But  as  they  approndieil  the  pluco  of  execution, 
they  beheld  the  lost  kuight  advancing  towards  them,  alive 

of  this  creature,  which  the  reader  may  be  pleased  to  Bee.  "  To  give 
you  an  idea  of  the  nature  of  this  kiud  of  monstrous  serpent,  know 
that  its  body  ia  as  strong  as  an  enraged  bull.  He  has  a  human  face  ; 
but  instead  of  a  noes  he  has  the  beak  of  an  eagle.  He  possesses  a 
goose's  eyes,  an  ase's  ears,  and  the  tirtlli  ef  u  do;;.  His  tnugue  is  long 
and  venomnua;  with  which,  when  he  is  chafed,  he  darts  a  prodigious 
number  of  fire-brands  united  with  a  smoke  so  fetid,  that  it  is  enough 
to  infect  a  whole  city.  He  has  the  legs,  feet,  and  elaws  of  a  lion  :  a 
dragon's  tail,  which  is  as  long  as  a  lance.  His  back  is  armed  with  a 
scale  so  hard,  that  no  steel,  howuvs-r  .  Mvlleutly  tempered,  is  able  to 
penetrate.  Moreover,  the  shoulders  are  ornamented  with  the  strong 
wings  of  a  Grijjin,  which  enable  him  to  eleavo  the  air  even  more  rapidly 
than  was  possible  to  the  cunning  Daedalus,  or  to  the  horse  of  Faoolot  " 
(foi.  i).  The  fuli  title  of  the  very  curious  and  entertaining  work  from 
which  the  quotation  is  taken  is  as  follows: — "  I.e  premier  liure  nil 
L'maTomis  et  ancienne  crohiqub  de  Gerabd  d'Edphkate,  DVC  de 
Bodboosgce  :  traitant,  pour  la  plus  pari,  ion  origins,  irunettt,  amort  et 
eheualernvz  faitz  d'armci:  auea  renrnntres,  et  auantures  nuruniUew", 
de  plu»ieuri  Chevalier»,  et  gran»  sriyneuri  de  ion  tempi:  Mil  de  nou- 
vtan  en  noitre  vvlgnire  Fruncoys."  PsRis,  1549.  But  the  Colophon 
speaks  of  twelve  books,  and  we  have  here  the  lirat  ouly.  It  is  in  Sina 
College  library. 


2+6 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 


and  well.  The  judge,  enraged  at  this  interruption  of  the 
sentence,  said  to  the  accused.  "  I  order  you  to  lie  put  to 
death,  because  you  are  already  condemned."  Then  turning 
to  the  accuser,  "  And  you  also,  because  you  are  the  cause 
•  •f  his  death."  "  And  you,  too."  addressing  the  restored 
knight — "  because  you  were  sent  to  kill  a  knight,  and  you 
did  not."  * 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  God:  the  first  two  knights, 
body  and  soul.     The  third  is  any  prelate. 


3F  GOOD  ADVICE. 


In  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Fulton  tins,  a  certain  knight, 
named  Zedechias,  married  a  very  beautiful  hut  imprudent 
wife.  In  a  certain  chamber  of  their  mansion  a  serpent 
dwelt.  Now.  tlie  knight's  vehement,  inclination  for  tourna- 
ments and  jousting  brought  him  to  extreme  poverty ;  he 
grieved  immoderately,  and,  iike  one  who  was  desperate, 
walked  backward  and  forward,  ignorant  of  what  he  should 
do.  The  serpent,  beholding  bis  misery,  like  the  ass  of 
Balaam,  was  on  that  occasion  miraculously  gifted  with 
si  voice,  and  said  to  the  knight,  "Why  do  you  lament? 
Take  my  advice,  and  you  shall  not  repent  it.  Supply  mo 
every  day  with  a  certain  tji.umt.ity  of  sweet  milk,  ami  I 
will  enrich  you."  This  promise  exhilarated  the  knight, 
and  he  faithfully  followed  the  instructions  of  his  subtle 
friend.  The  consequence  was  that  he  had  a  beautiful 
sou,  and  became  exceedingly  wealthy.  But  it  happened 
that  his  wife  one  day  said  to  him,  "  My  lord,  I  am  sure 

•  This  is  jusliw;  with  u  renqeance. 

This  story  i«  told  by  Seneca  or  Cneiua  Piao,  D.:  Ira.  lib.  i.  c  S, 
sud  it  ia  found  in  Chaucer's  Soropaours  Tale,  who  mention»  the 
since  authority. 


OF    GOOD   ADVICE.  247 

that  serpent  has  great  rich»  hidden  in  the  chamher  where 
ho  dwells.  Let  ub  kill  him  and  get  possession  of  the 
whole."  The  advice  pleased  the  knight,  and  at  the  request 
of  his  wife  he  took  a  hammer  to  destroy  the  serpen t,  and 
a  vessel  of  milk.  Allured  by  the  milk,  it  put  its  head 
out  of  the  hole,  as  it  had  been  accustomed  ;  and  the  knight 
lifted  the  hammer  to  strike  it.  The  serpent,  observing 
his  perfidy,  suddenly  drew  baek  its  head ;  and  the  blow 
fell  upon  the  vessel.  No  sooner  had  ho  done  this,  than 
his  offspring  died,  and  he  lost  everything  that  he  formerly 
]H>Bseased.  The  wife,  taught  by  their  common  loss,  said 
to  him,  "  Alas  !  I  have  ill  counselled  you  ;  but  go  now  to 
the  hole  of  the  serpent,  and  humbly  acknowledge  your 
offence.  Perad venture  you  limy  find  grace."  The  knight 
complied,  and  siu-uding  liefuri.:  tin-  dwelling-place  of  the 
serpent,  shed  many  tears,  and  entreated  tiiat  he  might 
once  more  he  made  rich.  "  I  see,"  answered  tho  serpent, 
"  I  see  now  that  you  are  a  fool,  and  will  always  be  a  fool. 
For  how  can  I  forget  that  blow  of  the  hammer  which  you 
designed  me,  for  which  reason  I  slew  your  son  and  took 
away  your  wealth  ?  There  can  be  no  real  peace  between 
us."  The  knight,  full  of  sorrow,  replied  thus  :  "  I  promise 
the  most  unshaken  fidelity,  and  will  never  meditate  tho 
«lightest  injury,  provided  J  may  this  once  obtain  your 
gTace."  "  My  friend,"  said  the  serpent,  "it  is  the  nature 
of  my  species  to  bo  subtle  and  venomous.  Let  what  I 
Lave  said  suffice.  The  blow  offered  at  my  head  is  fresh 
upon  my  recollection ;  get  you  gone  before  you  receive  an 
injury."  The  knight  departed  in  great  affliction,  saying 
to  his  wife,  "  P'ool  that  I  was  to  take  thy  counsel !  "  But 
ever  afterwards  they  lived  in  the  greatest  indigence.  (19) 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  king  is  God  ;  the  knight  is  Adam,  who 
by  following  bis  wife's  advice  lost.  Paradise.  The  serpent 
in  the  chamber  signifies  Christ  retained  in  the  human 
heart,  by  virtue  of  baptism. 


GESTA    ROMANOUUM, 


TALE  CXLII. 

OF  THE  SNARES  OF  THE  DEVIL. 
A  certain  powerful  king  planted  a  forest,  and  surnmiHM 
it  with  a  wall.  He  stocked  it  with  various  animals, i" 
which  In-  l<i'ik  infinite  pleasure,  it  happened  tliut  "'■■■ 
being  discovered  militating  traitorous  designs,  his  pro- 
perry  was  confiscated,  and  himself  banished  the  land. 
This  person,  therefore,  provided  various  kinds  of  dops  ami 
nets,  and  went  privately  into  the  royal  forest  to  take  sinl 
destroy  the  animals  which  it  contained.  The  names  rf 
his  dogs  were  Richer,  fimuleyin.  Hancgiff,  Haiidyii.  Cri*- 
mel,  Egofyn,  Boamis,  and  Renelen.*  By  means  of  lbs** 
dogs  and  the  nets  he  destroyed  every  animal  in  the  forest. 
The  king  was  greatly  enraged  at  this  circiimstano>'.  i.',,l 
said  to  his  eon,  "  My  dear  son,  arm  yourself;  call  out  tl» 
troops,  and  slay  this  traitor,  or  drive  him  from  the  kingdom ." 
The  youth  answered,  "  I  am  ready  to  comply  with  your 
wishes;  but  as  I  have  heard  that  he  is  a  man  of  exceeding 
prowess,  it  would  bo  advisable  to  conceal  myself  lor  a 
certain  time,  in  company  with  a  beautiful  girl,  who"* 
wisdom  surpasses  Unit,  of  all  others.  I  will  converse  witli 
her,  and  then  prepare  myself  for  battle."  The  fn'l.'.r 
replied,  "  Go  to  the  castle  Varioch  ;  f  there  you  will  fiiw 
a  girl  of  inimitable  prudence,  By  her  means,  yon  ro»y 
send  a  defiance  to  our  enemy,  and  I  will  then  proiii'>t<>  l-'r 
to  many  honours."  This  heard,  the  Hon  entered  the  radii' 
secretly,  and  was  received  by  the  lady  with  great  ]<■'>'- 
He  remained  there  some  time,  and  then  departed,  MB» 
with  the  power  of  hie  father,  against  the  traitorous  '■" 
spoiler  of  the  royal  forest.  In  the  end  he  overthrew  hi"1- 
cut  ofl'  his  head,  and  returned  in  triumph  to  the  kiri£! 

*  This  tulo  seems  tn  be  of  Etaxnn  nrip-in.  Many  of  tbe  nsmfp  ' 
iliTivalilu  from  thai  Imifuit.L-v,  aa  Kii'lier,  ITaneyitl,  Beamis,  Kill  ^ 
1  [lerlmpa  from  Sin    ]1i:m  i.,  cursor),  tos. 

[See  Oetterky,  p.  264,— Ed,] 

+  Query  if  from  Pits.  Vmn,  Hpten  or  beDmn,  and  Ioc,  jufrsm' 

[The  tV,l..-ii,,(liti..r,.  printed  by  Ulric  Zell  (14D0  ?),  omit»  "  ** 
ml  I'Li-tnilii  Vmioili." — Ep.1 


OF   TERROR. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God  ;  the  forest  the  world, 
whose  wall  is  the  divine  precepts.  The  traitor  is  any 
evil  Christian ;  the  dogs  and  nets  are  vices ;  the  son 
is  Christ ;  and  the  castle,  the  Virgin  Mary. 


TALE    CXLIH. 


OF    TERROR. 


A  king  made  a  law,  by  which  whosoever  was  suddenly  to 
be  put  to  death  in  the  morning,  before  sunrise  should  he 
saluted  with  songs  and  trumpets,  and.  arrayed  in  black 
garments,  should  receive  judgment.  This  king  made  a 
great  feast,  and  convoked  all  the  nobles  of  his  kingdom, 
who  appeared  accordingly.  The  most  skilful  musicians 
were  assembled,  and  there  was  much  sweet  melody.*  But 
the  sovereign  was  discontented  and  out  of  humour;  his 
countenance  expressed,  intense  sorrow,  and  sighs  and 
groans  ascended  from  his  heart.  The  courtiers  were  all 
amazed,  but  none  had  the  hardihood  to  inquire  tho  cause 
of  his  sadness.  At  last  they  requested  the  king's  brother 
to  ask  the  cause  of  his  sorrow ;  he  made  known  to  him  the 
surprise  of  his  guests,  and  entreated  that  ho  might  under- 
stand the  occasion  of  his  grief.     "  t.iu  home,  imw,"  answered 


*  "  In  the  days  of  chivalry,  a  concert  of  a  variety  of  instruments  of 
Ohio  constantly  made  a  part  of  Die  Bdluimjils1  of  a  splendid  fcant. 
i  in  an  unpriuted  metrical  r.uhlixv  of  Kuiure,  JISS.,  CM.  Cu%  A  2. 
1.  72  a. 

" '  Sir  Ladore  let  make  a  feast, 
That  was  fair  and  honest, 

With  bin  lord  the  king; 
There  was  m-uch  mmnlrefoi/, 
Tromp-eB,  tabors,  and  psaltery, 
Both  harp  and  fiddl-i'-ing ! ' 
"  And  in  Chaucer's  January  and  May.,  v,  1234  : — 

" '  At  every  course  came  the  loud  minstrelsy.' " 


2-jO  gesta  romanorum. 

the  king  j  "  to-morrow  yon  shall  know."  This  was  done. 
Early  in  tho  morning  the  king  directed  the  trumpets  w 
sound  before  his  brother's  house,  and  the  guards  tn  k:^ 
him  to  the  court.  Tho  brother,  greatly  alarmed  at  tk 
sounding  of  the  trumpets,  arose,  and  put  on  sable  vi-suu-1- 
When  he  came  before  the  king,  the  latter  comruimiloU 
deep  ptt  to  be  dug,  and  a  rotten  chair  with  four  decayed 
feet  to  be  slightly  Bnapended  over  it.  In  this  chair  lis 
made  his  brother  sit ;  above  his  head  he  caused  a  «mfd 
to  hang,  attached  to  a  single  silk  thread  ;  *  and  four  men, 
each  armed  with  an  extremely  «harp  sword,  to  stand  near 
him,  one  before  and  one  behind,  a  third  on  the  right  ban1!. 
and  the  fourth  on  the  left.  When  they  were  thus  placed, 
the  king  said,  "  The  moment  I  give  the  word,  strike  Up 
to  the  heart."  Trumpets  and  all  other  kind  of  ihium' 
instruments  were  brought,  and  a  table,  covered  silli 
various  dishes,  was  set  before  him.  "  My  dear  brother. 
said  tho  king,  "what  is  the  occasion  of  your  Borrow' 
Here  are  the  greatest  delicacies — the  most  enrapturing 
harmony;  why  do  you  not  rejoice?"  "  How  can  Injoiot? 
answered  he.  "  In  the  morning  trumpets  sounded  for  «'■} 
death;  and  I  am  now  placed  upon  a  fragile  chair;  if  I 
move  ever  so  little  it  will  fall  to  pieces,  and  I  shall  l;lil 
into  the  pit  and  never  come  out  again.  If  I  raise  my 
head,  the  weapon  above  will  penetrate  to  my  biOT- 
Besides  this,  the  four  torturers  around  stand  ready  to  Wl 
me  at  your  bidding.  These  things  considered,  were  j 
lord  of  the  universe,  I  could  not  rejoice."  "'Sow.  flwft 
answered  the  king,  "I  will  reply  to  your  truest  inn  ',: 
yesterday.  I  am  on  my  throne,  as  you  on  that  frail  cli»11' 
For  my  body  is  its  emblem,  supported  by  four  dei'iiv1-".' 
feet,  that  is,  by  the  four  elements.  The  pit  below  me-  w 
hell ;  above  my  head  is  the  sword  of  divino  justice,  ready  *" 
take  life  from  my  body.  Before  ine  is  the  sword  of  dea*I' 
which  spares  none,  and  comes  when  it  is  not  expect^^] 
behind,  a  sword — that  is,  my  sins,  ready  to  accuse  me 
the  tribunal  of  God.     The  weapon  on  the  right  hand 

*  This  circumstance  seems  to  appertain  to  the  story  of  the  tyr^^ 

Iii'iiivsius  iiiul  lii.i  lliitterers. 

[For  tho  well-known  str.ry  nf  tho  "Sword  of  Damocles,"  i 
to  in  the  above,  nolt,  sl-l  Hornet,  Curat,  iii.  1,  17  sen. — En.] 


OF   THE    ACTUAL    STATE   OF   THE    WORLD.  251 

the  devil ;  and  that  on  the  left  is  the  worms  which  after 
death  shall  gnaw  my  body.  And,  considering  all  these 
■  ■ileum stances,  how  can  I  rejoice?  if  you  to-day  feared 
me,  who  am  mortal,  how  much  more  ought  I  to  dread  my 
Creator?  Go,  dearest  brother,  and  lie  careful  that  you  do 
not  again  ask  such  questions."  The  brother  rose  from  his 
unpleasant  seat,  and  rendering  thanks  to  the  king  for  his 
life,  firmly  resolved  to  amend  himself.  All  who  were 
present,  commended  the  ingenuity  of  the  royal  answer.  (20) 


TALE  CXLIV. 

OF  THE  ACTUAL  STATE  OF  THE  WORLD. 

In  the  reign  of  a  certain  king  there  happened  a  sudden 
and  remarkable  change,  as  from  good  to  evil,  from  truth 
to  falsehood,  from  strength  to  weakness,  from  justice  to 
injustice.  This  mutableness  excited  the  king's  wonder; 
and  inquiring  the  eau.se  of  four  of  the  wisest  philosophers, 
they  went,  after  much  deliberation,  to  the  tour  gates  of 
the  city,  and  severally  inscribed  thereon  three  causes. 
The  first  wrote — "  Powor  is  justice ;  therefore  the  land  is 
without  law.  Day  is  night ;  therefore  there  is  no  pathway 
through  the  land.  The  warrior  flees  from  the  battle; 
therefore  the  kingdom  has  no  honour."  The  second 
wrote — "One  is  two;  therefore  the  kingdoTn  is  without 
truth.  The  friend  is  an  enemy:  therefore  the  kingdom 
is  without  faith.  Evil  is  good  ;  therefore  the  kingdom  is 
without  devotion."  The  third  wrote — "  Ifeason  is  united 
with  licentiousness ;  therefore  the  kingdom  is  without 
name.  A  thief  is  set  on  high;  therefore  the  kingdom  is 
without  wealth.  The  dove  would  become  an  eagle ;  there- 
fore there  is  no  prudence  in  the  land."  The  fourth  wrote — 
"The  will  is  a  counsellor;  therefore  the  kingdom  is  ill 
ordered.  Money  gives  sentence;  therefore  the  kingdom 
is  badly  governed.  God  is  dead ;  therefore  the  whole 
kingdom  is  full  of  sinners."  • 

*  The  application   ia    long    and  iininlcrestiiig,   and    hifiipiiolc    ■! 
abridgment;  I  have  therefore  thought  it  beat  to  omit  it  entirely.     It 


GESTA   ROKANORUM. 


TALE    CXLV. 

OF   SALVATION, 

Albertus  *  relates  that  in  the  time  of  Philip  there  was 
a  pathway  lying  between  two  mountains  of  AroW*' 
which  had  long  been  unused.  For  the  air  of  that  amW 
was  so  pestilential,  that  whosoever  breathed  it  died.  I* 
king,  therefore,  was  desirous  of  ascertaining  the  eaiw  ''■' 
the  evil,  but  no  one  could  discover  it.  At  length  Bod»* 
wae  sent  for,  who  requested  him  to  build  a  raaaaan  "I11;" 
in  loftiness  with  the  mountains.  This  was  done ;  and  tie 
philosopher  then  cons  In:  clod  a  mirror  of  steel,  with  apf" 
fectly  pure  and  polished  surface,  bo  that  from  every  p*rt 
the  appearance  of  the  mountains  was  reflected  in  ''■ 
Entering  the  edifice,  Socrates  beheld  two  dragons,  """ 
upon  the  mountain  and  the  other  in  the  valley,  «bid. 
simultaneously  opened  their  mouths  and  drew  in  the  air.  A" 
lie  looked,  a  youth  on  horseback,  ignorant  of  the  iLi'i!'"1'- 
wished  to  pass  that  way :  suddenly  lie  fell  from  hifi  hw1* 
and  died  incontinently.  Socrates  went  without  delay  t" 
the  king,  and  declared  what  he  had  seen.  The  ilriij;""" 
were  afterwards  taken  by  a  cunning  trick,  and  intstiirit.y 
slain.  Thus  the  path  over  these  mountains  became  »'! 
and  easy  to  all  who  passed  by. 

contains,  however,  what  may  lead  us  to  suspect  thai  certain  tif  ■'■'"' 
talcs  (though  very  few,  I  believe)  Lire  of  Gcrmim  derivation.  "l'<'"' 
Iviln,"  Bays  llir  original,  "  v  nitrite  r :  die-  tflutti-:.k  nil  jli.-i,  n  .nV  ''"" 
ah  ri.r  mller.  Mei'i  lion  wst  diserttin,"  &c.  So  one  edition  ;  t»c^lli,:" 
read,  "Der  v.rvl  iri/ll  i:lw  -/in  also  luiot.  tils  '/it  ami  aquilti,  Idee.  *''■■ 
and  two  (one  oi' which  holeee/ci]  to  Mr.  Tyrwhm.  now  in  tli-  i>'"'* 
Milium)  have  llio  Latin  translation.  "  Culcx  eupit  tain  ulk  i"''""1 
niiiiit  ipsa  aqnilla."  Curabola  above,  I  apprehend,  should  In-  ,"i;''i'v|:' 
[Oesterlcy,  who  has  examined  an  enormou»  number  of  M'"' 
states  that  the  proverb  does  not  appear  in  one  of  them,  but  i<  *J 
addition  nmili;  l>y  tin;  cdilurs  of  the  printed  copies  :  "  1Mb  spricd*1'" 
toll]  lilt  ill  [Jt-n  liiuiii.-clsrill.nl  ear  niolit  ver"    ( Ursl.   p    2tL').      Kl'- 

•  Jlhsrtoti 

Adam  to  1256. 


a  abbot  of  Blade,  and  author  of  a  eliminate  fro* 


■ 


OF   REBUKES  TO   PBSBSOBB. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  mountains  * 
of  the  world;  the  dragons  arc 
mirror  in  our  Saviour  Christ ;  a 
The  young  man  who  perished  i 
Socrates  is  a  good  prelate. 


re  the  noble  and  powerful 
pride  and  luxury.  The 
id  the  edifice,  a  good  life. 
;  a  man  killed  by  vanity. 


TALE  CXLVL 


OF   REBUKES   TO    PIUVCES. 


Augustine  tells  us  in  his  book,  Da  Civitaie  Dei,  that 
Diomedes,  in  a  piratical  galley,  for  a  long  time  infested  the 
.t(-n,  plundering  ;iinl  sinking  m:uiy  ships.  Being  captured 
by  command  of  Alexander,  heliiru  whom  he  was  brought, 
the  king  inquired  how  ho  dared  to  molest  the  seas.  "How 
darest  thou,"  replied  he,  "  molest  the  earth  ?  Because  I  am 
master  only  of  a  single  galley,  I  am  termed  a  robber  ;  but 
you,  who  oppress  the  world  with  Imp?  squadrons,  are  called 
a  king  and  a  conqueror.  Would  my  fortune  ahftnge,  I 
might  become  better ;  and  were  you  more  unlucky,  you  too 
would  have  so  much  the  worse  name."  "  I  will  change 
thy  fortune,"  said  Alexander,  "  lest  Fortune  should  be 
blamed  by  thy  malignity."  Thus  ho  became  rich ;  and 
from  a  robber  was  made  a  prince  and  a  dispenser  of 
justice.* 

APPLICATION. 

i  his  galley  is  a  sim 


GESTA   ROMANORUSt 


TALE   CXLVII. 

OF   THE    POISONOUS   NATURE    OF   SIN. 

The  enemies  of  a  certain  king  wished  to  slay  him,  w^ 
since  he  was  powerful  they  resolved  to  destroy  Lini  b;' 
poison.  Some  of  them  came  to  the  city  where  he  atA 
arrayed  in  humble  garments.  Now,  there  was  a,  fountain 
of  water,  from  which  the  kin ^  Ir-.-qii'-ji tl \-  drank,  ami  they 
impregnated  it  with  the  poison.  The  king,  ignorant  ^ 
their  treason,  drank  according  to  eustoin,  and  died. 


APPLICATION. 

The  king  is  Adam ;  hie  enemies  are  the  dovils ;  and  th« 
fountain  is  the  human  heart. 


TALE  CXLVIII. 

OF  THE  PUNISHMENT  OF  SIN. 
Auma  Gellius  says  of  Amon,"  who  was  extremely  ncn. 
I  hat  when  lie  wished  to  [kiss  from  one  kingdom  to  aui.idjtT. 
he  hired  a  ship.  The  Bailors  designed  to  kill  him  fur  hfc* 
wealth;  but  he  obtained  from  them,  that  first  he  sbonw 
King  in  honour  of  the  dolphins,  which  are  said  to  be  m"1'" 
delighted  with  the  songs  of  men.  "When,  therefore,  lie  »^ 
east  overboard,  a  dolphin  caught  him  up,  and  carried  biw 
to  land;  and  while  the  sailors  believed  him  drowned hL' 
was  accusing  them  to  the  king,  by  whom  they  were  t* 
domned  to  death.f 

*  [It  1b  very  etrnnge  that  all  the  printed  editions  sh-ull  ":l 
.liaiin.  fscpt  'in,,  wliii'h  |]i,g  A-mer,  when  the  itorv  if  < tj;it  "I'  A"'" 
TheUkenesa  I.,  iw  n  Hi,  liuv,-  :i.  in,  •  ■,;..■■  .1.-.:  Ih.ii  ■,.,■.■.-■ 
forced  to  suppose  that  BOmo  of  the  early  MSS.  miift  liavo  linl  «* 
name  ciirreelly.  Nunc  of  Uinac  examined  by  Oijletley  have  it.  >"r 
i'l.  prino.  haa  Amor. — Ei>.] 

t  Aulua  Gelliua  rolutos  this  story  (Noel.  Attie.  lib.  xvL  cap.  »W 


OF   VAIN    GLORY. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  rich  man  is  any  virtuous  person ; 
sailora  are  devils ;  and  the  king  is  God. 


TALE    CXLIX. 

OF   VAIN    GLORY. 

Valewtjs  records  that  a  certain  nohleman  inquired  of 
a  philosopher  how  he  might  perpetuate  his  name.  Ho 
answered  that  if  lie  should  kill  an  illustrious  personage, 
his  name  would  he  eternally  remembered.  Hearing  this, 
he  slew  Philip,  the  lather  of  Alexander  the  Great.  But 
he  afterwards  came  to  a  miserable  end." 

APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  nohleman  is  any  one  who  seeks  a 
worldly  name  by  bad  means. 

from  Herodotus, in  whom  it  is  now  extant  (lib.  viti.J      This  character 
of  the,  dij]|>liiii  htu)  been  often  alluded  to. 

"  Sweet  sir,  'tis  nothing : 
Straight  rmnr-j  a.  ilolpliin.  [■liiyinir  ni-ur  your  ship, 
Having  his  cruekt't  bud;  iij..  iiud  presents 
A  feather  bod  to  waft  yo  to  the  shore 
As  easily  as  if  you  slq.it  i'  ill'  court." 

Fokd,  The  L'.iwr'r  Mihinrl,e,hj,  Act  i.  Sc.  3. 
[The  reference  to  llt'rodijtus  id  ■.ir'.'iii.mslv  ^ivon.     It  should  be 
Herod,   i.  1'H.  2-!.  t<2  5i)  kd-yauiri  Kop[vB,o,  K.T.A.-ED.] 

•  This  curious  aneodotr  is  recorded  r.f  1'aii-niiiii-.  in  the  eighth 
liook  of  Valerius  Maiimus,  De  Cupidiliile  Ijluri/e.  cap.  si  v. 
Exter.  i. 

"  Nam  dutn  Ilwiiifiulta  |ic>':on(»ti.is  esse!..  7«™«™  minh>  suhito  tlarut 
posset  eeadere,  fttque  iw  rcepoTidisset,  si  iUwttem  virum  nUtptrm  euxiilii- 


Kt.futurum  nl  iilijri'n  ijti*  >iil  i/isuia  mlu-iniimt  :  conliuiiii  1'hilippum 
intereuiit.  Kt  quidem  qund  [■ctic nit,  inventus  cat.  Tain  er'—  - 
jiarrioidio,  quaiu  1'hilippua  viitute,  notum  posteris  reddidit." 


QESTA    ROMANORUM. 


OF  CELESTIAL   DEW. 

Pust  says  that  there  is  a  certain  land  in  which  neither 
dew  nor  nin  falls.  Conseq neatly,  there  is  a  general  arii- 
uees;  but  iu  this  country  there  is  a  single  fountain,  from 
which,  when  people  would  draw  water,  they  are  awm- 
totned  to  approach  with  all  kinds  of  musical  instruments, 
and  bo  march  around  it  for  a  length  of  time.  The  melody 
which  they  thus  produce  causes  the  water  to  rise  to  the 
mouth  of  the  spring,  and  makes  it  flow  forth  in  great 
abundance,  so  that  all  men  are  able  to  obtain  as  much  « 
they  will.* 


My  beloved,  the  arid  land  is  man ;  the  fountain, 
the  musical  instruments,  devotional  exercises. 


a.  M: 


OF   A   SISFITL    AND    LEPROUS    SOUL. 


Is  the  kingdom  of  a  oertain  priuco  thero  were  two  knight», 
one  of  whom  was  avaricious,  and  the  other  envious.  Tba 
former  had  a  beautiful  wife,  whom  every  one  adniini'l  sb-' 
loved.  But  the  spouse  of  the  latter  was  ugly  and  d>3' 
agreeable.  Now,  the  envious  knight  had  a  piece  of  l»^ 
;i<ij<iining  the  estate  of  his  covetous  neighbour,  of  «hi™ 
tlie  last  exceedingly  desired  possession.  He  made  hint 
many  offers,  but  the  envious  person  invariably  refused  to 
«ell  bis  inheritance  for  silver  or  gold.  At  last,  in  the  en*? 
of  his  soul,  ho  meditated  how  to  destroy  the  beauty  of  ^9 

•  I  am  unable  to  find  this  account  in  Pliny.    In  the  second  *•*■ 


OF  A  SINFCTL  AND  LEPROUS   SOUL.  257 

wife  of  the  covetous  kniglit,  and  offered  him  the  land  on 
condition  of  enjoy  injv  hi1-  wife  for  one  night.  The  cove- 
tous wretch  immediately  assented;  and  bade  his  wife 
submit  herself  to  his  will.  This  diabolical  contract  ad- 
justed, the  envious  knight  instantly  infected  himself  with 
the  leprosy,  and  communicated  the  disease  to  the  lady,  for 
wliioh  he  assigned  the  following  reason.  He  said  that,  being 
tilled  with  envy  at  the  beauty  and  grace  which  he  observed 
in  hia  neighbour's  wife,  while  his  own  was  so  deformed 
and  hateful,  he  had  resolved  to  remove  the  disparity.  The 
lady  wept  exceedingly  ;  and  related  to  her  husband  what 
had  happened.  This  troubled  him,  but  he  bethought  him- 
self of  a  remedy.  "  As  yet,"  said  he,  "  no  symptoms  of  the 
disorder  are  perceptible.  At  a  short  distance  from  hence, 
there  is  a  large  city,  and  in  it  a  university.  Go  there ; 
stand  in  the  public  way,  and  entice  every  passenger  to 
you.  By  this  means,  you  will  free  yourself  from  the  dis- 
temper. "  The  lady  did  as  she  was  directed ;  and  the 
emperor's  son,  passing  by,  fell  violently  in  love  with  her. 
Afraid  to  infect  a  person  so  near  the  throne,  she  resisted 
his  advances,  and  informed  him  that  she  was  a  leper.  This, 
however,  altered  not  the  feelings  of  the  young  man ;  and 
accordingly  the  leprosy  of  the  woman  adhered  to  him. 
Ashamed  of  what  had  befallen,  and  at  the  same  time 
fearful  of  discovery,  he  went  to  his  mistress,  and  abode 
with  her.  This  circumstance  she  stated  to  her  husband, 
and  he,  much  troubled,  set  his  bed-chamber  in  order,  and 
there  the  prince  dwelt  in  the  strictest  seclusion,  attended 
upon  only  by  the  lady.     Here  he  continued  seven  years. 

It  chanced  in  the  seventh  year  that  there  was  an  in- 
tolerable heat,  and  the  leprous  man  had  a  vessel  of  wine 
standing  by  his  side,  designed  to  refresh  his  exhausted 
spirits.  At  this  moment  a  serpent  came  out  of  the 
garden,  and,  after  bathing  itself  in  the  vessel,  lay  down 
at  the  bottom.  The  prince,  awaking  from  sleep,  under 
the  influence  of  an  excessive  drought,  took  np  the  vessel 
and  drank;  and,  without  knowing  it,  swallowed  tin- 
serpent.  The  creature,  rinding  itself  thus  unexpectedly 
imprisoned,  began  to  gnaw  his  bowels  so  griovously  as  to 

*  For  an  awoun  t  of  the  lepK*y  boo  Note  13;  the  qualities  attribute  J 
to  it  arc  an  whimsical  as  fabulous. 


258 


0E8TA   ROMANokt'M. 


put  the  leper  to  inconceivable  anguish.  The  lady  greatly 
lompnssiomilcd  him:  and.  indeed,  for  three  daya,  Le  w»* 
an  object  of  pity.  On  the  fourth,  however,  an  emetic  bemjt 
%dm  mistered,  he  vomited,  and  east  up,  together  with 
the  inward  disease,  the  serpent  which  had  tormented  Mi^ 
Immediately  the  pain  ceased  ;  and  by  little  and  little  Dm 
leprosy  left  him.  In  seven  days  bin  flesh  win  as  to 
from  the  disorder  as  the  flesh  of  a  child ;  and  the  lady, 
much  delighted,  clothed  him  in  sumptuous  apparel,  and 
presented  liim  a  beautiful  war-horse,  on  which  ho  returned 
to  the  emperor.  He  was  received  with  all  honour,  and 
after  his  father's  death  ascended  the  throne,  and  ended 
bis  days  in  peace, 

APPLICATIOS. 
My  beloved,  the  two  knights  are  the  devil  and  the  first 
man.  The  first,  envious  of  human  happiness,  possesses  a 
deformed  wife,  that  is,  pride;  the  second  had  a  beautiful 
wife,  which  is  the  soul.  The  leprosy  is  iniquity,  nfcirb 
drove  us  from  Paradise  into  the  university  of  the  world- 
The  son  of  the  emperor  is  Christ,  who  took  upon  Hiniw'f 
our  nature,  but  by  His  sufferings  freed  us  from  thfl  con- 
sequence of  ain.  As  the  leper  thirsted,  so  did  Christ  thirst 
upon  the  cross ;  but  not  for  wine .-  it  was  for  the  salvation 
of  our  souls.  The  serpent  is  His  crucifixion ;  the  war- 
horse,  the  divine  and  human  nature,  with  which  Ho 
ascended  into  heaven. 


I) 


OF  ETERNAL  DESTRUCTION. 

A  prince,  named  Cleonitus,  wishing  to  give  instruction 
to  certain  of  his  subjects  who  were  beleaguered  by  "* 
enemy,  ordered  a  soldier  to  go  to  the  place  attacked.  I" 
order  to  insult  the  beleaguerers,  he  directed  an  inBcriptii"1' 
skilfully  fastened  upon  some  arrows,  to  be  prepared,  a'1'1 
shot  amongst  the  hostile  armies.  It  ran  thus;  "B*** 
hope  in  the  Lord,  and  be  faithful;  Cleonitus  eouit*  * 
person  to  raise  the  siege." 


OF   TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION. 


APPLICATION1. 


My  beloved,  the  prince  is  Christ ;  the  people  besieged 
b  sinners ;  and  the  beleaguerers,  the  devils.  The  mes- 
□ger  is  a  preacher. 


OF  TEMPORAL  TRIBULATION,  T>yA  ,         "^^"   '5Ae 

ntiochus.  the  king   of  Antioch    (from  whom   the  city  **  im^^jj 
kee  its  name),  had  a  daughter  of  such  uncommon  beauty,    ty  "£•*• 
at  when  she  came  of  marriageable  years,  she  was  sought  ^  ^AtX^ 
ter  with  the  greatest  eagerness.    But  on  whom  to  bestow     t^A 


aquently  contemplating  the   exquisite  loveliness  of  her 

□e,  the  delicacy  of  her  form,  and  the  oxeeUence  of  her    "M-*-1 

spoeition,  he  began  to  love  her  with  more  than  a  father's 

ve.      He  burned  with   an    unhallowed   flame,  and  would 

lvb    excited  a   simultaneous   feeling  in   his  daughter.* 

ie,  however,  courageously  perse  vi-n;d  in  the  path  of  duty, 

ltil    at  length   violence    accomplished    what    persuasion 

id  in  vain  struggled  to  effect.     Thus  situated,  she  gave 

loose  to  her  tears,  and  wept  in  an  agony  of  the  bitterest 

irrow.      At  this  moment  her  nurse  entered,  and  asked. 

ie  occasion  of  her  uneasiness;  she  replied,    "Alas,  my 

gloved  nurse,  two  noble  names  have  just  perished."    "Dear 

idy,"  returned  the  other,  "why  do  you  say  so?"     She 

)ld  her.     "  And  what  accursed  demon  has  been  busy?" 

iked  the  nurse.     "  Where,"  replied  the  lady,  "  where  is 

ly  father?     I  have  no  father;    in  me  that  sacred  name 

as  perished.     But  death  is   a  remedy  for  all,  and  J  will 

ie."     The  nurse,  alarmed  at  what  she  heard,  soothed  her 

lto  a  less  desperate  mood,  and  engaged  her  word  not  to 

eek  so  fearful  a  relief. 

Thii  king  unto  him  took  a  phecrc, 
Who  died  and  left  a  female  heir, 
So  buiom,  blithe,  and  full  of  face, 
As  Heaven  had  lent  ber  all  His  grace." 

Shaxespiahb.  I'erirlri, 


2G0 


GESTA  ROMAKORUSL 


In  the  mean  time  tbe  impious  parent,  assuming  the 
specious  garb  of  hypocrisy,  exhibited  to  the  citizens  the 
fair  example  of  an  honust  life.  Iu  secret  he  exulted  at 
the  success  of  hie  iniquity,  ana"  reflected  upon  the  best 
meaDS  of  freeing  his  unhappy  daughter  from  the  numerous 
suitoTB  who  honourably  desired  her  hand.  To  effect  this, 
he  devieed  a,  new  scheme  of  wickedness.  He  proposed 
certain  questions,  and  annexed  to  them  a  condition,  by 
which  whosoever  furnished  an  appropriate  answer  should 
espouse  the  lady ;  but  failing1,  should  bo  instantly  decapi- 
tated. A  multitude  of  crowned  heads  from  every  quarter, 
attracted  by  her  unmatchable  beauty,  pre-ented  them- 
selves ;  but  they  were  all  put  to  death.  For,  if  any  one 
chanced  to  develop  tbe  horrid  secret,  he  was  slain  equally 
with  him  who  failed,  in  order  to  prevent  its  being  divulged. 
Then  the  head  of  the  victim  blackened  upon  the  gate. 
The  suitors,  therefore,  naturally  grew  less  ;  for,  perceiving 
so  many  ghastly  countenances  peering  above  them,  tlieir 
courage  quailed,  and  they  returned  hastily  to  their  several 
homes. 

Now,  all  this  was  done  that  he  who  had  produced  this 
scene  of  wickedness  might  continue  in  uninterrupted  pos- 
session. After  a  short  time,  the  young  prince  of  Tyre, 
named  Apollonms,  well-lettered  and  rich,  sailing  along 
the  coast,  disembarked  and  entered  Antiooh.  Approaching 
the  royal  presenile,  he  «aid,  "  Hail,  oh  king !  1  seek  thy 
daughter  in  marriage."  The  king  unwillingly  heard  him 
communicate  his  wishen,  and  fixing  an  earnest  look  upon 
the  young  man.  said,  "Dost  thou  know  the  conditions?" 
"  I  do,"  answered  he  boldly,  "  and  find  ample  confirmation 
at  your  gates."  *  The  king,  enraged  at  his  firmness,  re- 
turned, "Hear,  then,  the  question — 'I  am  transported 
with  wickedness;  I  live  upon  my  mother's  flesh.  I  seek 
my  brother,  and  find  him  not  in  tho  offspring  of  my 

*  "  Ho  made  a  law 
(To  keep  her  still,  and  men  in  awe). 
That  whoso  asked  her  for  his  wife, 
His  riddle  told  not,  lost  hia  life  : 
So  for  her  many  a  wight  did  die. 
As  yon  grim  looks  do  testify." 


M 


OF    TEMPORAL    TRIBULATION.  261 

mother."'*  The  youth  received  the  question,  and  went 
from  the  presence  of  the  king ;  and  after  duly  considering 
the  matter,  by  the  good  providence  of  God,  discovered  a 
solution.  He  immediately  returned,  and  addressing  the 
incestuous  wretch,  said,  "  Thou  hast  proposed  a  question, 
oh  king  !  attend  my  answer.  Thou  hast  said,  *  I  am  trans- 
ported with  wickedness'  and  thou  hast  not  lied :  look  into 
thy  heart.  'I  live  ujjori  my  mother's  flesh,' — look  upon  thy 
daughter."  The  king,  h'  u.mg  this  explication  of  the 
riddle,  and  fearing  the  discovery  of  his  enormities,  re- 
garded him  with  a  wrathful  eye.  "  Young  man,"  said  he, 
"thou  art  far  from  the  truth,  and  deservest  death;  but 
I  will  yet  allow  thee  the  space  of  thirty  days.  Recol- 
lect thyself.  In  the  mean  while,  return  to  thy  own 
country :  if  thou  findest  a  solution  to  the  enigma,  thou 
shalt  marry  my  daughter;  if  not,  ihou  shalt  die."t  The 
youth,  much  disturbed,  called  his  company  together,  and 
hastening  on  hoard  his  own  vessel,  immediately  Bet  sail. 

No  sooner  had  he  departed,  than  the  king  sent  for  his 
steward,  whose  name  was  Taliarehus,  and  spoke  to  him 
in  this  manner :  "  Taliarehus,  you  are  the  most  faithful 
repository  of  my  secrets ;  you  know,  therefore,  that  the 
Apollonius  of  Tyre  has  found  out  my  riddle.      Pursue 

*  "  [Pmc/f«  read»  the  riddle.'] 
I  am  no  viper,  yet  I  feed 
On  Binilicr'»  lli-oli  which  Jiil  me  breed; 
I  sought  a  huauuud,  in  which  labour, 
1  found  that  kindness  in  a  father. 
He'e  father,  bod.  and  husband  mild, 
I  mother,  wife,  and  yet  hie  child. 
How  they  may  be,  and  yet  in  two, 
Aa  you  will  live,  resolve  it  you." 

Shakespeabe,  Periclti. 
t  "  Ant.     Young  prince  of  Tyre, 
TlnMiL^li  liy  the  loiiour  of  our  strict  edict, 
Your  ei|Hi3iii"i]  j a U interpreting1, 

Wo  niifrhl  | 'i- ■■  il  [■''  '■> .-I  of  your  day» J 

Yet  hope,  sn..-1'iniini.'  from  M)  fair  a  tree 

As  your  fair  hoIF,  dotli  tune  us  otherwise! 

Forty  days  Jouyer  we  do  respite  you ; 

if  l>y  which  tirji-.-  our  .-.noivt  i,-e  undone, 

This  mercy  shows,  we'll  joy  iu  such  a  son : 

And,  until  thin,  your  viitrrtain  shall  be, 

Aa  doth  belit  our  honour  and  your  worth."    Ibid, 


!62  GESTA   ROMANOKCM. 


26 

him  instantly  to  Tyre,  and  destroy  him  either  with  the 
sword  or  with  poison.  When  you  return,  you  shall  receive 
a  liberal  recompense."  Taliarchus,  arming  himself,  and 
providing  a  sum  of  money,  sailed  into  the  country  of  the 
young  man.* 

When  Apollouius  reached  his  own  home,  he  opened  his 
coffers,  and  searched  a  variety  of  books  upon  the  subject 
in  question,  but  he  still  adhered  to  the  same  idea.  "Un- 
less I  am  much  deceived,"  said  he  to  himself,  "ting 
AiitiochuH  entertains  an  impious  love  for  his  daughter." 
And  continuing  his  reflections,  he  went  on,  "  What  art 
thou  about,  Apollonius?  thou  hast  resolved  his  problem, 
and  still  he  has  not  given  thee  his  daughter.  Therefore, 
(iod  will  not  have  thee  die."  Commanding  his  ships  to 
lie  got  ready,  and  laden,  with  a  hundred  thousand  measures 
of  corn,  and  a  great  weight  of  gold  and  silver,  with  many 
changes  of  garments.  In;  hastily  embarked  during  the  night, 
in  company  with  a  few  faithful  followers.  They  put  to 
sea  immediately ;  and  much  wonder  and  regret  arose  the 
next  day  an  mug  tin:  citizens  respecting  him.  For  be  was 
greatly  beloved  amongst  them  ;  and  such  was  their  sorrow, 

I  that  the  barbers,  for  a  length  of  time,  lost  all  their  occu- 
pation; public  spectacles  wore  forbidden;  the  baths  were 
closed,  and  no  one  entered  either  the  temples  or  taber- 
nacles. 
While  these  tilings  were  going  on,  Taliarchus,  who  had 
been  despatched  by  Antiiiehus  ti)  destroy  the  prtnee,  ob- 
serving every  house  shut  up,  and  the  signs  of  mourning 
general,  asked  a  boy  the  occasion  of  it.  "  Sir,"  replied  he, 
11  are  you  ignorant  of  this  matter,  that  you  ask  me  ? 
Understand,  then,  that  Apollouius.  prince  of  this  country, 
having  returnod  from  a  visit  to  King  Antiochus,  is  no- 
where to  be  found."  Much  rejoiced  at  what  he  heard, 
Taliarchus  returned  to  his  vessel,  and  sailed  back  again  to 
*  "  Enter  Thaliard. 
Thai.  Doth  your  highness  call? 

iAnl.  Thulin.nl.  you've  of  our  chamber,  and  our  mind 
Partakes  her  private  actions  to  your  flecresy; 
And  lor  your  la illi fulness  we  will  advance  you. 
Thaliard,  behold,  here's  poison  and  here's  gold: 
We  hate  the  prince  of  Tyre,  and  thoii  most  l;ill  liin 


!£  Paid*» 


OF  TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  263 

his  own  country.*  Presenting  himself  to  the  king,  he 
exclaimed,  "  Be  happy,  my  lord ;  Apollonius,  through 
dread  of  you,  is  not  to  be  found  anywhere."  He  has  fled," 
returned  the  king ;  "  but  long  he  Hhall  not  escape  me." 
And  he  immediately  put  forth  an  edict  to  this  effect : 
"  Whosoever  brings  before  me  the  traitoT  Apollonius 
shall  receive  fifty  talents  of  gold  ;  but  whosoever  presents 
me  with  his  head  shall  be  rewarded  with  a  hundred." 
This  tempting  proposal  stimulated  not  only  his  enemies, 
hut  his  pretended  friends,  to  follow  him,  and  many  dedi- 
cated their  time  and  activity  to  the  pursuit.  They 
traversed  sea  and  land,  near  and  remote  countries,  but 
he  fortunately  escaped  their  search.  The  malicious  king 
fitted  out  a  navy  for  the  same  purpose,  and  commanded 
them  to  proceed  with  the  utmost  diligence  in  their 
employment. 

Apollonius,  however,  arrived  safely  at  Tharsus,  and 
wnlking  liking  the  shore,  he  was  distinguished  bya  certain 
slave  of  his  own  household,  called  Elinatns,  f  who  hap- 
pened that,  very  hour  to  have  reached  it.  Approaching,  he 
made  obeisance  to  the  prince,  and  Apollonius,  recognizing 
Itiui,  returned  his  salute  as  great  men  are  wont  to  do  ;  for 
hi;  thought  him  contemptible.  The  old  man,  indignant  at 
Iiim  reception,  again  saluted  him,  "  Hail,  King  Apollonius  ! 
Return  my  salute,  and  despise  not  poverty,  if  it  be  orna- 
mented by  honest  deeds.  Did  you  know  what  I  know,  you 
would  be  cautious."  "  May  it  please  you  to  tell  me  what 
you  know '! "  answered  the  prince.  "  You  are  proeeribed," 
returned  the  other. 

"  Thai.  Well,  I  perceive  (Anide). 

— *  V  hangM  now,  although  I  would ; 

j's  gone,  the  king  it  nure  taunt  please, 
.  d  the  land,  to  perish  on  the  seas. — 
But  I'll  present  me. — Peace  to  the  lords  of  Tyre  I 
Eel.  Lord  Thaliard  from  Antiochus  is  welcome. 
TkdL  From  him  I  come 
With  message  unto  princely  Pericles  ; 
But  since  my  landing,  its  I  hare  understood 
Yonr  lord  has  took  himself  to  unknown  travela, 
My  meiisage  must  return  from  whence  it  came." 

SlUKEsl-KAlit:,  1'ericUl. 
t  Called  Hellanicns  in  the  Latin  copy  of  1595 


GESTA    ROMANORUM. 

"  And  who  shall  dare  proscribe  a  princt 

■■  Antioehus  has  done  it." 

"  Antioehus !     For  what  cause  ?  " 

"  Because  you  sought  to  be  what  the  father  of  his 


"And  what  is  the  price  of  my  proscription?" 

"He  who  shall  take  you  alive  in  to  receive  fifty  talerjt» 
of  gold ;  hut  for  your  head  he  wall  have  a  hundred  Aid 
therefore  I  caution  you  to  be  upon  your  guard." 

Saying  this,  Elinatus  wont  his  way.  Apollouins  re- 
L-alled  Mm,  and  proffered  the  hundred  talents  of  gold 
which  had  Ixtcn  set  upon  his  head.  "  Take,"  said  he,  "W 
much  of  my  poverty ;  thou  hast  merited  it  :  cut  off  my 
head,  and  gratify  the  malicious  king.  Ton  possaa  the 
sura,  and  still  you  arc  innocent.  T  engage  yon,  therefore, 
of  my  own  free  will,  to  do  so  great  a  pleasure  to  him  who 
seeks  my  destruction."  "  My  lord,"  answered  the  old  m"1' 
"  far  he  it  from  me  to  take  away  your  life  for  hire;  uie 
li-ioiidsliip  of  good  men  is  of  more  value,  and  cannot  be 
bought."  Then,  returning  thanks  to  the  prince  for  Di* 
munificence,  he  departed.  But  as  Apollonius  tarried  OH 
the  shore,  he  perceived  a  person  named  Stniiigailio  »]>- 
preaching  him  with  a  sorrowful  aspect,  and  every  now 
and  then  uttering  a  deep  lament.  "Hail,  Stranguttw ! 
said  the  prince.  "  Hail,  my  lord  the  king  !  "  was  his  rep?'- 
■■  You  appear  concerned  ;  tell  me  what  occasions  it?" 

"To  say  truth,"  returned  Apollonius,  "it  is  because  1 
have  required  the  daughter  of  a  king  in  marriage.  ''s" 
I  conceal  myself  in  your  country  ?"  "  My  lord,"  answers! 
SI  ninguilio,  "  our  city  is  extremely  poor,  and  cannot  *'}■' 
tain  your  attendants,  in  consequence  of  a  grievous  faia^- 
which  has  wasted  the  land.  Our  citizens  are  hopeless  «"! 
helpless  ;  and  death,  with  all  its  accompanying  horrors.  "■ 
before  our  eyes."  "  Give  thanks  to  God,"  replied  Ap1'" 
lonius,  "  who  hath  driven  me  a  fugitive  to  your  shores.  '' 
you  will  conceal  my  flight,  1  will  present  to  you  »  h«»' 
dred  thousand  measures  of  corn."  Full  of  joy,  Straiurml'0 
prostrated  himself  at  the  feet  of  the  prince,  and  exdnii"11' 
'•  My  lord,  if  you  will  assist  our  starving  city  we  will  n« 
only  conceal  your  flight,  but,  if  nocessary,  unshenth  *™ 


OF  TEMPORAL   TfilT! ULATION.  -h-5 

swords  in  your  defence."  Apolkinius.  therefore,  hastened 
into  the  forum,  and  ascending  the  tribunal,  spoke  thus  to 
the  assembled  population  :  "  Men  of  Tbarstis,  understand- 
ing that  an  afflicting  dearth  of  provisions  troubles  you,  I, 
ApollonhiB,  proffer  aid.  I  believe  that  you  will  not  forget 
the  benefit  1  render  you,  but  conceal  my  flight  from  thoso 
who  unjustly  pursue  me.  Ye  know  what  the  malice  of 
Antiochus  aims  at,  and  by  what  providence  1  am  brought 
hither  to  relieve  you  in  this  terrible  emergency.  I  present 
to  you  a  hundred  thousand  measures  of  corn  at  the  price 
I  gave  for  it  in  my  own  country — that  is,  at  eight  pieces 
for  each  measure."  The  citizens,  delighted  at  what  they 
heard,  gave  thanks  to  God,  and  immediately  prepared  the 
corn  for  use.  (21) 

But  Apollonius,  not  forgetting  the  dignity  of  a  king 
in  the  traffic  of  a  merchant,  returned  the  purchase-money 
to  the  state  ;  and  the  people,  struck  with  wonder  at  this 
unexpected  instance  of  generosity,  erected  in  the  forum 
a  chariot  drawn  by  four  horses,  running  side  hy  side. 
In  the  car  was  a  statue,  representing  ApuMonius  with  his 
right  hand  rubbing  the  corn  frow  the  ear.  His  left  foot 
trampled  upon  it ;  and  on  the  pediment  they  placed  the 
following  inscription :—"  Apollo nius,  prince  of  Tyre,  by 

A  GIFT  TO  THE  CITY  OK  THARSUS,  PRESERVED  ITS  INHABITANTS 
FROM  A  chuel  death."  *  A  few  days  afti-r  wards,  by  the 
advice  of  Stravngnilio  and  his  wife  Dioiiynias.t  the  prince 
determined  to  sail  for  Pentapolis.J  a  city  of  the  Tyrrheni, 

*  "  Ami  to  ri.-riic-ml'i-r  what  he  doea, 

Gild  bis  statue,  glorious."— Shakespeare. 

Gower  cays, 

"  It  was  of  l'iil-'ii  nvtT-gilt."   -  Cotif,  Avian. 

+  Diuntza  in  Shakeapeare. 

1  Pentanotis  wiiti  jirdpiTly  ;i  ■.-.■luilr:;  of  Adieu,  ami  i?  called  fr  m 
its  five  cities.  licrcnicL,  Arriiiot.-,  I'lnk-iuuiK,  l.'yionc.  and  Apnllouia  it 
won  also  a  country  of  Palestine.  Hut  J  suppose  n  city  of  Tuaoni.y 
in  meant  litre,  which  ivas  called  by  the  name  of  Pontapolie.  Mr. 
Stevens,  however,  lays  tlmt  it  is  ou  imaginary  city,  and  its  nanio 
probably  borrosvn]  from  some  romance.  '"  Thai  the  reader  may  know 
through  how  many  regions  the  scene  of  this  drama  is  dispersed,  it  is 
necessary  to  observe  that  Anli/vii  was  tin;  metropolis  of  Syria  :  Tyre, 
a  city  of  Phomicia  in  A  sin;  'J'urtu*.  the  iiurropoji.-  (.■['  (.'ilicia.  a  country 
or  Asia  Minor  ;  MtU/h-iti-.  the  capital  of  l.i..«l«s.  an  inland  in  the  Aigv.ui 
Sea;  and  Jtpheaus,  the  capital  of  Ionia,  a  country  of  Leaaer  Asia." — 


.OMAJfOEUK, 


■ 


where  he  might  remain  in  greater  tranquillity  and 
Opulence."  They  brought  him,  therefore,  with  much 
ceremony  to  the  sea-shore ;  and  then  bidding  his  hosts 
farewell,  he  embarked.  For  three  days  and  nights  he 
sailed  with  favourable  winds  ;  hut  after  losing  sight  of 
the  Tharsian  coast,  they  veered  round,  and  blow  from  the 
north  with  great  violence.  The  rain  fell  in  heavy  showers, 
mixed  with  hail ;  and  the  ship  waa  carried  away  by  the 
fury  of  the  storm.  Dark  clouds  brooded  over  them ;  and 
the  hlast,  still  increasing,  threatened  them  with  immediate 
death.  The  crew,  imagining  all  was  lost,  caught  hold,  of 
planks,  and  committed  themselves  to  the  mercy  of  the 
waves.  In  the  extreme  darkness  that  followed,  all 
perished.  But  Apollonius,  riding  on  a  plank,  was  cast 
Upon  the  Peiitiipolitaii  allure;  on  which,  after  quitting  the 
water,  he  stood  thoughtfully,  and  fixing  his  eyes  upon 
the  ocean,  now  in  a  calm,  exclaimed,  "  Oh,  ye  faithless 
waves  !  better  had  I  fallen  into  the  hands  of  that  savage 
king !— to  whom  shall  I  now  go?  What  country  shall 
I  seek  ?  Who  will  afford  succour  to  an  unknown  and 
helpless  stranger?"  As  he  spoke  this,  he  behold  a  young 
man  coming  towards  him.  He  was  a  robust,  hard- 
favoured  fisherman,  clad  in  a  coarse  frock.  Apollonius, 
driven  by  his  distresses,  humbly  besought  this  man's 
assistance,  even  with  tears  starting  from  his  eyes.     "  Pity 

*  "  (_Dvmh  aft™.) 
Enter  at  one  door  Pkuclw,  talking  refft   Olboit;   ull  the  train  with 
them.     Enter  id  n  wither  iliior  «  <'Jt:itllr-mnn,  irith  v  hitter  to  Pehioi.es; 
I'ekicj.iM  ulnars  t)i-  trli-r  l<:  l.-i.Kijv  ;  then  i/ire*  tli  e  Messenger  a  reward, 
ami  kniijlih  him.     I'.i-nnit  I'urirtt-*.  I  'l-m.  Ait.,  severally. 

Gnw.  Good  Il<.-I it-ii in-  Imili  .-liiy'il  at  home. 

Not  to  eat  honey,  like  a  drone, 

From  others'  InVnuirB  ;  fir  tho'  lie  strive 

To  killen  baa,  keep  s01"!  alive  ; 

And.  to  fulfil  liie  prince'  Uesire, 

Sends  won!  <>f  sill  ilinl  1j;ijik  in  Tyre: 

How  Thaliard  c:ime  full  bent  with  am. 

And  hid  intent  to  murder  liim  : 

And  that  in  Tharsus  was  not  Oest 

Longer  tnr  him  to  make  his  rest: 

He.  knowing  bo.  put  fortli  to  seas, 

Where  when  tutu  been,  there's  seldom  ease." 

Eos,  Per 


OF  TEMPORAL  TRIBULATION.  267 

me,"  said  he,  "  whosoever  thou  art ;  pity  a  man  stripped 
of  all  by  shipwreck — one  to  whom  better  daya  have  been 
familiar,  and  who  is  descended  from  no  ignoble  family. 
But  that  yon  may  know  whom  you  succour,  understand 
that  lama  prince  of  Tyre,  and  that  my  name  is  Apollonius. 
Save,  then,  my  life,  I  entreat  you."  The  fisherman,  com- 
passionating his  sufferings,  brought  him  to  his  own  roof, 
and  placed  such  as  he  had  before  him.  And  that  there 
might  be  no  deficiency  in  the  charitable  part  he  was 
acting,  he  divided  Lis  cloak,  and  gave  one-half  to  the 
stranger ;  "  Take,"  said  the  benevolent  man,  "  take  what 
I  can  give,  and  go  into  the  city  ;  there,  perhaps,  yon  will 
find  one  with  more  power  to  servo  you  than  I  am.  If  you 
are  unsuccessful  in  your  search,  return  hither  to  me. 
What  poverty  can  provide  you  shall  share.  Yet,  should 
you  hereafter  be  restored  to  your  throne,  do  not  forget 
or  despise  the  coarse,  threadbare  cloak  of  the  poor  fisher- 
man." •  "Fear  not,"  said  Apollonius;  "should  I  prove 
ungrateful  may  I  be  shipwrecked  again,  nor  find  in  my 
extremity  a  man  like  yourself."  As  he  spoke,  the  fisher- 
man pointed  out  the  way  to  the  city  gates,  which  Apol- 
lonius shortly  entered. 

Whilst  he  reflected  upon  the  path  he  should  pursue,  he 
beheld  a  naked  hoy  running  along  the  street,  having  his 
head  anointed  with  oil,  and  bound  with  a  napkin. t  The 
youth  luBtily  vociferated,  "  Hear,  hear,  pilgrims  or 
slaves ;  whosoever  would  be  washed,  let  him  haste  to  the 
gymnasium."  Apollonius,  according  to  the  proclamation, 
entered  the  hath,  and  pulling  oft'  his  cloak,  made  use  of 
the  water.  Whilst  he  was  doing  this,  be  cast  his  eyes  ^ 
around  to  discover  some  one  of  an  equality  with  himself; 
and  at  last  Altistrates.J  king  of  all  that  country,  entered 
with  a  troop  of  his  attendants.     The  king  played  with 

*  "  'i  Fish.  Ay,  but  hark  you,  my  friend  ]  'twas  we  that  made  up 
this  garment  tlmm-ii  1 1  l -_-  r"ii.L']i  sciisus  of  r.hi ■  sums  :  tlwro  are  certain 
oondolementa.  certain  mihs.  I  hone,  sir.  if  von  thrive,  you'll  remem- 
ber from  whenoe  ym  had  it."     Siiakksitaiie,  1'eride». 

t  The  custom  of  anointing  the  body  fitter  lathing  in  a  well-known 
Eastern  practice;  hut  the  nudity  of  the  boy  running  through  the 
streets  with  a  proclamation,  1  do  not  exactly  understand. 

t  Called  by  Sliak.-|'c.Lrr  jvim'.iu'iilis ;  bat  the  iueide.nl  following  ii 
omitted,  mid  auotuei  uetd  instead. 


268  GESTA    ROMANORTJM. 

them  af,  tennis ;  *  and  Aprdlonius  running  forward,  caught 
up  the  hall,  and  striking  it  with  inconceivable  skill  and 
rapidity,  returned  it  to  the  royal  player.  The  king, 
motioning  to  his  servants,  said,  "Give  up  your  sport, 
give  up  your  sport;  for  I  suspect  this  youth  is  as  good 
a  player  as  I  am."  f  Apollonius,  nattered  by  this  praise, 
approached  the  king,  and  catching  up  au  unguent,  J  with 
a  dexterous  hand  anointed  the  king's  body-  Then,  having 
gratefully  administered  a  bath,  he  departed.  After  he 
was  gone,  "I  swear  to  you,"  said  his  majesty  to  his 
surrounding  friends,  '-that  1  have  never  bathed  so  agree- 
ably as  I  have  done  to-day  by  the  kindness  of  a  youth 
whom  I  do  not  know.     "  Go,"  added  he,  to  one  of  the 


*  "  Ludum  Sph 

+  An  extract  )i 

game  alluded  to  !— 


u*  thrr 


"  And  as  it  should  then  befall_ 
Tli  nt.  day  wan  -i/t  uf  such  assise, 
That  they  ahnuld  in  the  land-*»  guise, 
(As  was  heard  of  the  people  say) 
Their  (.'Mm]  in  hi  Mine  then  play. 
And  cried  was,  that  they  should  couib 
IJnlii  the  i;ara-e  all  and  sorae; 
Of  them  that  ben  deliver  and  wits. 
To  do  such  maatery  as  they  might. 
They  mads  them  naked  (as  they  should) 
"  "  it  ilke  gam-e  would; 


And  II 


£  the  ei 


Auiijliii-e*  thuin  iviia  rn 

Tho  flower  of  all  the  tc 

And  of  (he  court  also  there  v 

And  that  was  in  a  larg-a  place. 

Eight  even  before  the  king-?*  face. 

Which  Arthescatoa  then  hight. 

The  play  was  played  right  in  his  sight, 

And  who  most  worthy  was  of  deed, 

Receive  he  should  a  certain  meed. 

And  in  tin:  eitv  bear  a  price. 

Apolloniua,  which  was  ware  and  wise, 
Of  every  game  could  an  end 
He  thought  assav.  how  so  it  went," 
'Coafeisio  Amantis, 
■n  aecepto,"  in  the  Wit  of  tho  Gerta  Roma/. 


i  the  " ft'arratio,"  4c,  "aecepto 


"  a  compound  of  oil  ami 


OF  TEMPORAL  TRIBULATION.  ! 

attendants,  "  go,  and  inquire  who  lie  is."  He  followed 
accordingly,  and  beheld  him  equipped  in  the  mean  cloak 
received  from  the  fisherman.  Returning  to  the  king,  he 
said,  "  The  youth  ia  one  who  has  suffered  shipwreck. " 
"  How  do  you  know  I "  replied  he.  "  The  man  said 
nothing,"  answered  the  servant,  "  hut  his  dress  pointed 
out  his  circumstances."  "  Go  quickly,"  returned  the 
king,  "and  say  that  I  entreat  him  to  sup  with  me." 
Apollonius  was  content,  and  accompanied  the  servant 
back.  The  latter,  approaching  the  sovereign,  stated  the 
return  of  the  shipwrecked  pewon,  but  that,  ashamed  of 
his  mean  habit,  he  was  unwilling  to  enter.  The  king 
instantly  gave  command  that  he  should  he  clothed  in 
honourable  apparel,  and  introduced  to  the  supper-room. 

Apollonius  therefore  entered  the  royal  drawing-room, 
and  was  placed  opposite  to  the  king.  Dinner  was  brought, 
and  then  supper.  He  feasted  not,  however,  with  the 
feastcrs,  but  continually  cast  his  eye  upon  the  gold  and 
silver  ornaments  of  the  table,  and  wept.  One  of  the 
guests  observing  this,  said  to  the  king,  "  He  envies  your 
regal  magnificence,  unless  I  am  much  deceived."  "  You 
suspect  unhappily,"  answered  he;  "he  does  not  envy  me, 
but  laments  somewhat  that  he  has  loet."  *  Then,  turning 
to  Apollonius,  with  a  smiling  countenance  he  .said,  "Young 
man,  feast  with  us  to-day.  and  hope  that  tjod  has  better 
things  in  store  for  you."  As  he  thus  ■endeavoured  to  raise 
the  drooping  spirits  of  theyoutli.  bis  daughter,  a  beautiful 
girl,  entered,  and  first  kissed  her  father,  and  then  those 
who  were  bis  guests. f  When  she  bad  gone  through  this 
ceremony,  sihe  returned  to  the  king,  and  said,  "  My  dear 
father,  who  is  that  young  man  reclining  opposite  to  you 

the  place  of  honour,  and  whose  grief  appears  so  ex- 


»  "Sim.  Tet  pause  a  while; 
Yon  knight,  methinkE,  doth  sit  too  melancholy, 
As  if  the  entertainment  in  out  court 
Had  oot  a  show  might  countervail  his  worth." 

Shakespeare,  Fericle*. 

t  This  presents  il?  a/'iinilii  ].i_'[urr,  rutin  r  than  flu-  oYliiicalicn  <> 
a  court:  hut  the;  were  primitive  times,  ami.  inure  ['oreihly  tl'iiin  urn 
other  circumstance,   these  tijurhc*  liem.'tc  the  liijdi  u]i1ii[iiily  of  the 


270 


GESTA   ROMANORCM. 


ceasive?"  "Sweet  daughter,"  answered  he,  "that  it  i 
ehipwrecked  youth,  who  pleased  me  to-day  in  the 
gymnasium ;  therefore  I  invited  him  to  supper ;  tut  «i» 
he  is  I  know  not.  If  you  wish  to  ascertain  this,  ask  him 
—it  becomes  you  to  know  al)  things  :  and  perhaps,  when 
you  are  made  acquainted  with  his  sorrows,  you  may  com- 
passionate and  relieve  them  "  The  girl,  happy  in  fa 
permission,  approached  the  young  man,  and  said.  "I'1"1"'' 
friend,  kindness  proves  nobility :  if  it  be  not  trotil)l(BMW 
tell  me  your  name  and  fortunes."  "Would  yon  Sn^sirt 
my  name?"  replied  he:  "I  lost  it  in  the  sea;  or  my 
nobility?  I  left  it  in  Tyre."  "Speak  intelligibly," said 
the  girl;  and  Apollonius  then  related  his  name  wi 
adventures."  When  he  had  made  an  end  he  wept,  md 
the  king,  perceiving  his  tears,  said  to  his  daughter. "  My 
dear  child,  you  did  ill  to  inquire  the  name  and  oOtUUMBNI 
of  the  young  man's  life.  You  have  renewed  bi-  pill 
griefs.t  But  since  he  has  revealed  the  truth,  it  is  rigbr 
that  you  should  show  the  liberty  you  enjoy  as  queen.' 
The  lady  complied  with  the  wishes  of  her  father,  and 
looking  upon  the  youth,  exclaimed,  "  You  are  our  knight, 

*  "  Sim.  Tell  him,  we  desire  to  know, 
Of  whence  ho  is,  his  name  and  parentage. 

Thai.  The  king  my  father,  air,  has  drunk  to  you. 

Per.  I  thank  him. 

Thai.  WisliiiiL'  it-  so  much  blond  untn  your  life. 

Per.  I  thank  both  him  and  you,  and  pledge  him  ft 

Thai.  And  further  he  desires  to  know  of  you, 
Of  whence  you  are,  your  name  and  parentage. 

Per.  A  gentleman  of  Tyre— (my  name,  Periclea  ; 
My  education  being  in  arta  and  arms ;) 
Who,  looking  for  adventures  in  the  world. 
Was  by  the  rough  sea  reft  of  ships  and  man, 
And,  after  pliipvtri'k-,  driven  iipnn  this  shore. 

Thai,  lie  thnrsks  yuur  frrsuY- :  niuuvs  himself  Pericle*, 
A  gentleman  of  Tyre,  who  only  by 
Misfortune  of  the  sea  has  been  bereft 
Of  ships  and  men,  and  cast  upon  this  shore. 

Sim.  Nmv,  l>y  the  "r.fis.  I  f -ity  his  misfortune. 
And  will  awake  him  from  his  melancholy." 

Shakespeare,  Per-  '* 

+  "Veteres  ejus  dolores  renovasti."— One  does  not  expect  S5^ 

Virgil's  "  Begina  jubos  reuovare  dolorem,"  in  a  writer  of  a^*- 

romances,  who  certainly  ncvt-r  went  to  the  fountain-head. 


OF   TEMPORAL   TKIHULATjON.  271 

Apollonius !  *  Put  away  your  afflictions,  and  my  father 
will  mate  you  rich."  Apollonius  thanked  lier  with 
modesty  and  lamentation.  Then  said  the  king,  "Bring 
hither  your  lyre,  and  add  song  to  the  hanquet."  She 
commanded  the  instrument  to  Vic  brought,  and  began  to 
touch  it  with  infinite  sweetness.  Applause  followed  the 
performance.  "  There  never  was,"  said  the  eourtiers,  "  a 
better  or  a  sweeter  song."  Apollonius  alone  was  silent, 
and  his  want  of  politeness  drew  from  the  king  a  remark. 
"  You  do  an  unhandsome  thing.  Everybody  else  extols 
my  daughter's  musical  skill ;  why  thou  do  you  only  dis- 
commend it?"  "  Most  gracious  king,"  replied  he,  "permit 
me  to  say  what  I  think.  Your  daughter  comes  near  to 
musical  pre-eminence,  but  has  not  yet  attained  it.  Com- 
mand, therefore,  a  lyre  to  be  given,  me,  and  you  shall  then 
know  what  you  are  now  ignorant  of."  "  I  perceive," 
observed  the  king,  "  that  you  are  universally  learned," 
and  directed  a  lyre  to  be  presented  to  him.  Apollonius 
retired  for  a  few  moments,  ami  ilccorated  his  head ;  then, 
re-entering  the  dining-room,  he  took  the  instrument,  and 
struck  it  so  gracefully  and  delightfully  that  they  unani- 
mously agreed  that  it  was  the  harmony  not  of  Apollonius, 
but  of  Apollo."!" 

The  guests  positively  asserted  that  they  never  heard 
or  saw  anything  better;  and  the  daughter,  regarding  the 
youth  with  fixed  attention,  grtjw  suddenly  and  violently 
enamoured.  "  Oh,  my  father,"  cried  she,  "  let  me  reward 
him  as  I  think  fit."     The  king  assented;  and  she,  looking 

F*  "  Thai.  But  you,  my  knight  and  guest ; 
To  whom  this  wreath  of  victory  I  give, 
And  crown  you  king  of  this  day's  happiness. 
Per.  'Tis  more  by  fortune,  hnly.  than  my  merit." 
Sfi iikKsi-f.AESK,  Periclet. 
t  "  Enter  Peeiclhb. 
Per.  All  fortune  to  the  good  Simonides  I 
Sim.  To  you  as  much  !     Sir,   I  am  beholden  to  yon 
For  your  sweet  music  lliis  !;i.-t  ijiijbt  :   my  ears, 
I  do  protest,  were  never  better  fed 
With  auch  dolightful  pleasing  harmony. 

Per.  It  is  your  grace's  pleasure  to  commend  ; 
Not  my  desert. 
Sim.    Sir,  you  are  music's  master. 

-.  The  worst  of  all  her  scholars,  my  good  lord."        Ibid. 


272  GESTA  ROMANORin*. 

tenderly  upon  the  youth,  said,  "  Sir  Apollonius.  receive 
out  of  my  royal  father's  munificence  two  hundred  talents 
ol  gold  and  four  hundred  pounds  of  silver,  a  rich  gamut, 
twenty  men-servants,  and  ten  handmaids  ;  "  then,  tuning 
to  the  attendants  present,  she  continued,  "  Bring  what  t 
roised."  Her  commands  were  obeyed ;  and  the 
quests"  then  rising,  received  permission  to  depart. 

When  they  were  gone,  Apollonius  also  arose,  and  said, 
"Excellent  king,  pitier  of  the  distressed!  and  yon,  0 
queen,  lover  of  study  and  friend  of  philosophy,  fate  ve 
welL"  Then  addressing  the  servants  bestowed  upon  him. 
he  commanded  them  to  bear  away  the  presents  he  hail 
received  to  an  hostelry;  but  the  girl,  who  became  iippre 
hensive  of  losing  her  lover,  looked  sorrowfully  M  W 
parent,  and  said,  "  Beet  king  and  father,  does  it  pMIrt 
you  that  Apollonius,  whom  we  have  so  lately  t'liridn-'- 
should  leave  us?  The  goods  we  have  given  him  will  1« 
purloined  by  wicked  men."  The  king  admitted  this,  mid 
unsigned  him  apartments  in  the  palace,  where  he  lived  in 
great  honour. 

But  the  lady's  affection  so  much  increased,  that  it 
deprived  her  of  all  reHt ;  and  in  the  morning  she  hasttiio-'i 
to  the  bedside  of  her  father.  Surprised  at  the  early  **fc 
lie  inquired  what  had  roused  her  at  so  unusual  an  hour. 
"  I  have  been  unable  to  sleep,"  answered  the  lady;  "itidl 
wish  you  to  permit  me  to  receive  instructions  in  ju"*11-' 
from  the  young  stranger."  The  king,  pleased  with  his 
daughter's  zeal  for  improvement,  cheerfully  assented,  und 
ootnmanded  the  youth  to  be  brought  into  his  presence. 
"Apollonius,"  said  he,  "  my  daughter  is  extremely  desirous 
of  learning  your  science ;  if  you  will  instruct  her,  I m" 
reward  you  abundantly."  "  "  My  lord,"  he  answered, " ' 
am  ready  to  comply  with  your  wishes  ;  "  and,  according?- 
the  girl  was  placed  under  his  tuition.  But  her  love  pi',1'1- 
upon  her  health,  and  she  visibly  declined.  Physioi»111' 
ivere   called  in,  and  they  liad  recourse  to  the  usual  ei- 

*  "Sim.  My  daughter,  sir,  thinks  very  well  of  you: 

Ay,  so  wi;ll,  sit.  that  yen  must  bu  Irt  master, 
And  bIr'U  viMir  si'hnlnr  !.'<-■ :  tlie-ri'fort'  look  to  it. 

Per.  Unworthy  T  to  lie  htr  wlioolmastet, 

Sim.  She  thinks  not  so  " 

SllAKKdPEABK,  iW 


OF  TEMPORAL  TRIBULATION.  273 

pedients ;  *  but  the  diagnostics  led  them   to  no   certain 
conclusion. 

In  a  few  days  three  young  noblemen,  who  had  long 
deBired  to  espouse  the  lady,  presented  themselves  before 
the  king,  and  besought  his  favour.  "  You  have  often 
promised  us,"  said  they,  "  that  one  or  the  other  should 
many  yonr  daughter.  We  are  rich,  and  of  noble  lineage : 
choose,  then,  which  of  us  shall  be  your  S"ii-hi-law."  "  You 
come,"  replied  the  king,  "  at  an  unseasonable  time.  My 
daughter  iB  unable  to  follow  her  usual  pursuits,  and  for 
this  reason  languishes  on  her  bed.  But  that  I  may  not 
appear  to  you  unnecessarily  to  protract  your  uncertainty, 
write  each  of  you  your  names,  and  the  settlement  you  will 
make  her.  Sho  shall  examine  them,  and  chuee  botween  ye." 
The  suitors  complied,  and  gave  the  writings  to  the  king, 
who  read,  and  sealed,  and  then  despatched  Apollonius  with 
them  to  the  lady.  As  soon  as  she  beheld  him  whom  she 
loved,  she  exclaimed,  "  Sir,  how  is  it  that  you  enter  my 
chamber  alone?"  He  presented  the  writings  which  her 
father  had  sent,aud. having  opened  them,  she  read  the  names 
and  proposals  of  the  three  suitors.  Casting  them  aside, 
she  said  to  Apollonius,  "  Sir,  are  you  not  sorry  that  I  must 
be  married?"  "No,"  returned  he;  "whatever  is  for  your 
honour  is  pleasant  to  me."  "  Ah  !  master,  master,"  con- 
tinued the  girl;  "but  if  you  lov<>d  me,  you  would  grieve." 
She  wrote  back  her  answer,  sealed,  and  delivered  it  to 
Apollonius  to  carry  to  the  king.  It  ran  in  these  words : 
"Royal  sir  and  father,  since  you  have  permitted  me  to 
write  my  wishes,  I  do  write  them.  I  will  espouse  him 
who  was  shipwrecked."  The  king  read,  but  not  knowing 
which  of  them  had  been  in  this  predicament,  he  said  to  tho 
contending  parties,  •'Which  of  you  has  been  shipwrecked?"' 
One,  whose  name  was  Ardomus,  replied,  "I  have,  my  lord." 
"  What !  "  cried  another,  "  diseases  confound  thee  ;  mayst 
thou  be  neither  safe  nor  sound.  I  know  perfectly  well 
that  thou  hast  never  been  beyond  the  gates  of  the  city  : 
where,  then,  wert  thou  shipwrecked?  "When  the  king 
could  not  discover  the  shipwrecked  suitor,  he  turned  ti> 


which  these  talus  weiT  L'uliriiMttJ. 


27* 


QESTA   EOMASORUM. 


"  Take  thou  the  tablets  and  read ; 
intelligible  to  you   than  they 


Apollonins,  and  aaid, 
perhaps  they  will  he  more 

are  to  me."     He  took  them,  ana  running  ms  eye  over  tne 
contents,  perceived  that  he  was  the  person  designed,  and 
that  the  lady  loved  him.     He  blushed.     "Dost  thou  dis- 
cover  this  shipwreck  I'd   person,    Apollonius  ?  "    asked  the 
king.     He  blushed  still  deeper,  and  made  a  brief  reply. 
Now,  in  this  the  wisdom  of  Apollonins  may  bo  perceived, 
since,  as  it  is  in  Eccles.,  "  There  is  no  wisdom  in  many 
words."     And  in  1  Peter  ii. :  "  Christ  hath   left  you  au 
example  to  he   diligently   followed,   who   never   sinned, 
neither  was  deceit  found  in  His  mouth."      The  same,  also, 
the  Psalmist  declares :    "  As  He  said,  bo  it  was  done ;  " 
wherefore  He  was  to  be  called  a  true  Israelite,  in  whom 
there  was  no  guile.      And  John  i. :    "Therefore   let  us 
imitate  Him  in  not  cursing,  unr  rendering  malediction  fur 
i  n  ale  diction,  but  reserve  the  tongue  for  blessing."     Thus 
shall  it  become  the  ]hhi  of  a  ready  writer — that  is,  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  suddenly   pouring  forth  its  gifts;  according 
its  it  is  said,  "  Suddenly  a  noise  was  heard  in  heaven." 
So  1  Peter  iii.  "  Ho  who  would  see  happy  days,  let  him  re- 
frain his  tongue  from  evil,  and  his  lips  that  they  speak  nu 
guile  :  "  that  is,  man  ought  not  to  murmur  within  umeU 
nor  act  outward  evil;  so  shall  he  enjoy  quietness  in  tins 
life,  and  in  the  future,  eternal  rest.    For  the  first  prevents 
the  outbreaking  of  reproachful  words  to  the  injury  of  hie 
neighbours;  and  it  is  the  beginning  of  eternal  peace.    So 
the  Psalmist:   "I  will  sleep  and  repose  in  peace."    Form 
the  tongue  of  a  good  and  quiet  man  is  directed  by  the 
power  of  God ;    so  the  tongue  of  a  malicious  person  is 
ministered  unto  by  evil  spirits.     As  it  is  written,  "  In  o«r 
garden  grows  a  whitethorn,  upon  which  the  birds  rest- 
By  this  garden  we  should  understand   the   mouth,  s^r- 
rounded  by  a  double  hedge — to  wit,  the  teeth  and  the  1^1* 
— for  no  other  cause  than  that  we  may  place  a  guard  uf™ 
the   mouth,  and   speak  nothing  but  what  is  in  praiB*  ot 
God.     The  thorn  in  the  garden  is  the  tongue  itself*  B' 
called  from  its  likeness ;  because,  as  the  material  tt*otn 
pricks  (St.  Matt,  xxviii. :    "  Twining  a  crown  of  iha*^ 
they  placed  it  upon  His  head,  and  the  blood  flowed  d^T 
His  blessed  body  in  consequence  of  the  puncture  of     ' 


OF   TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION. 


275 


thorns  "),  thus  the  thorn,  that  is  the  tongue,  pierces  a  man 
— one  while  j>\  taking  away  Lis  guud  sense  ;  sit  another,  by 
falsehood;  and  then,  again,  by  discovering  I  lie  evil  that 
there  is  in  any  person  :  all  which  ought  carefully  to  be 
ehnnned.  Etit  the  birds  resting  upon  the  thorn  are  the 
Jevils,  who  incline  man  to  vice,  so  that  he  becomes  their 
servant.  Therefore  they  will  exclaim,  in  the  last  day, 
"'Cast  this  man  to  us,  O  righteous  judge!  for  since  he 
"would  not  be  thine  in  all  virtue,  he  is  ours  in  all  malice." 
-Let  every  one  of  us  keep  in  his  tongue,  which  Oato  declares 
"to  be  the  first  virtue. 

But  to  return  to  our  story.  When  the  king  hecame 
sware  of  his  daughter's  inclination,  lie  said  to  the  three 
lovers,  "In  due  time  I  will  communicate  with  you." 
They  bade  him  farewell  and  departed.  But  the  king  has- 
tened to  his  daughter.  "  Whom,"  said  he,  "wouldft 
thou  ehuee  for  thy  husband?"  She  prostrated  herself 
before  him  with  tears,  and  answered,  "  Dear  Father,  I 
desire  to  marry  the  shipwrecked  Apollonius."  His  child's 
tears  softened  the  parent's  heart;  lie  raised  her  up,  and 
said,  "My  sweet  child,  think  only  of  thy  happiness  ;  since 
lie  is  thy  choice,  he  shall  be  mine.  I  will  appoint  the 
day  of  your  nuptials  immediately."  The  following  room- 
ing, he  sent  messengers  to  the  neighbouring  cities  to 
invite  the  nobles.  When  they  arrived,  he  said,  "  My 
lords,  my  daughter  would  marry  her  master.  I  desire 
i»ou,  therefore,  to  be  merry,  for  my  child  will  be  united  to 
a  wise  man."  Saying  this,  he  fixed  the  period  of  their 
spousal  s. 

Now,  it  happened,  after  she  became  pregnant,  that  she 
WaUied  with  her  husband,  prince  Apollonius,  by  the  sea- 
shore, and  a  fine  ship  riding  at  anchor  in  the  distance,  the 


latter  perceived  that  it  was  of  his 

to  the  master  of  the  vessel,  he  said,  "  Wheno 

"  From  Tyre,"  replied  the  man. 

"  You  speak  of  my  own  land,  my  friend." 
"  Indeed  !  and  arc  you  a  Tyrian  ?  " 
"As  you  have  said." 

"  Do  you  know,"  continued  the  master,  ' 
that  country,  called  Apollonius  ?  I  seek  him 
ever  you  happen  to  see  bini,  bid  him  exult. 


Turniji] 
a  you 


;« 


276 

chus  i 


GESTA  ROMANOEUM. 


- 


me!  his  daughter,  at  the  very  same  instant,  were 
masted  with  lightning.*  The  kingdom  has  fallen  to 
Apollonius."  Full  of  pleasure  at  the  unexpected  intelli- 
gence he  had  received,  the  prince  said  to  his  wife,  "  Will 
you  acquiesce  in  my  setting  out  to  obtain  the  throne?" 
The  lady  inistaiitly  buret  into  tears.  "  Oh,  my  lord,"  said 
she,  "  the  journey  is  long,  and  yet  you  would  leave  me ! 
If,  however,  it  is  necessary  that  you  should  go,  we  will 
go  together."  t  Instantly  hastening  to  her  father,  she 
communicated  the  happy  news  which  had  juet  been  heard, 
that  Antiochus  and  his  daughter,  by  the  just  judgment  of 


,  an,  my  Eacanea  ;  know  this  of  m 
Antiochua  from  inoeat  lived  aot  free  ; 
For  which  the  most  high  goda  aot  minding  longer 
To  wi tli hold  the  vengeance  that  they  had  in  store, 
Due  to  tliia  heinous  capital  offence; 
Even  in  the  height  and  pride  of  all  hia  glory, 
When  he  was  seated,  mid  his  daughter  with  him. 
In  a  chariot  of  inestimable  vulac, 
A  fire  from  heaven  emoe   mid  shrivell'd  up 
Their  bodies,  even  to  loathing;  for  they  so  stunk, 
That  all  thoi<e  evfrs  :i- !■  ■:..■■  1  llu-m,  ire  their  fall, 
Scorn  cow  their  hand  should  give  their  burial." 

Shakespeare,  J 
+  "  Com.  At  laat  from  Tyre 
(Fame  ausuvrji);.'  I  he  most.  -I  mug  inquire) 
To  the  court  of  king  Simonidea 
Are  letters  Lrmi^ht,  tin-  tenour  these  : 
Antiochus  mid  In-  ii;tnsrht.i--r's  dead; 
The  meu  of  Tjrrus  on  the  head 
OfHeli.arma  would  set  on 
The  erown  of  Tyre,  but  he  will  none  : 
The  mutiny  there  he  hastes  t'  appease; 
Says  to  them,  if  king  Pericles 
Come  not,  in  twice  six  moous,  home, 
He,  ohedieat  to  their  doom, 
Will  take  the  crown.    This  sum  of  this, 
Brought  hitherto  Pentapolis, 
Y-rftvishcd  the  regions  round, 
And  every  one  wii.li  chips  Van  sound, 
Our  heir  apparent  is  a  king  : 
Who  dream' d,  irlui  ttunitjhl  n/  *itch  a  Iking  1 
Brief,  he  must  henrc  dt  jmrt  to  Tyre : 
His  rtueen  «  iih  child  ma  ken  her  dcaira 
(Which  win  i  shall  riiMB  V)  along  to  go  ; 
(Omit  we  all  their  dole  and  woe)." 


F   TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  277 

an  offended  (3od,  had  been  struck  with  lightning,  and  hip 
wealth  and  diadem  reserved  for  her  bifsband.  Anil  lastly, 
(she  entreated  his  permission  to  accompany  him.  The  old 
king,  much  exhilarated  with  the  intelligence,  was  easily 
prevailed  upon  to  assent;  and  ships  were  accordingly 
prepared  for  their  conveyance.  They  were  laden  with 
everything  necessary  for  the  voyage ;  and  a  nurse,  called 
Ligoridis,"  was  embarked,  and  a  midwife,  in  anticipatinn 
of  the  young  queen's  parturition.  Her  father  accompanied 
them  to  the  shore,  and  with  an  affectionate  kiss  of  each, 
took  his  leave. 

When  they  had  been  at  sea  some  days,  there  arose  a 
fearful  tempest;  and  the  lady,  brought  hy  this  circum- 
stance into  premature  labour,  to  all  appearance  perished. 
The  moaning  and  tears  of  her  family  almost  equalled  the 
storm;  and  Apolliniius.  alarmed  at:  the  outcry,  ran  into 
the  apartment,  and  beheld  his  lovely  wife  like  an 
inhabitant  of  the  grave.  He  tore  his  garments  from  his 
breast,  and  cast  himself  with  tears  and  groans  upon  her 
inanimate  body.  "  Dear  wife !  "  he  exclaimed,  "  daughter 
of  the  great  Altistrates,  how  shall  1  console  thy  unhappy 
pareat?"t/  Here  the  pilot,  interrupting  him,  observed. 
"  Sir,  it  will  prejudice  the  ship  to  retain  the  dead  body 
on  board;  command  that  it  be  cast  into  the  sea." 
"  Wretch  that  you  aro,"  returned  Apollonius,  "  would  you 
wish  me  to  burl  this  form  into  the  waves,  that  succoured 
me  shipwrecked  and  in  poverty?"  Then  calling  his  at- 
tendants, he  directed  them  to  prepare  a  coffin,  and  smear 
the  lid  with  bitumen.  He  also  commanded  that  a  leaden 
scroll  should  be  placed  in  it,  and  tin;  body,  arrayed  in  regal 
habiliments,  and  crowned,  was  then  deposited  in  the  coffin. 
He  kissed  her  cold  lips,  and  wept,  bitterly.  Afterwards 
giving  strict  charge  respecting  the  new-horn  infant,  ho 
committed  all  that  remained  of  his  wife  to  tlio  sea.  (22) 

On  the  third  day  the  chest  was  driven  by  tho  waves 
to  tho  shores  of  Ephesus,  not  far  from  the  residence  of  a 
physician,  called  Cerimon,  who  happened  at  that  hour  to 


*  In  Shakspeare.  Lychorida. 

t  "  Li/ch.  Patience,  Kivnl  *ir  :  di>  nut-  as.-r 

Here's  nil  tin  it  i-i  left  living   .['  vi>uf  ipiL-eu. 

A  little  daughter."  Shak: 


278 


GESTA  KOMA>*OP.C«. 


be  walking  with  certain  of  his  pupils  upon  the  sands. 
Observing  the  chest  deserted  by  the  waters,  he  commanded 
his  servants  to  secure  it  with  all  speed,  and  convey  it  to 
his  house:  this  done,  be  opened  it,  and  discovered  a 
beautiful  girl,  attired  in  royal  apparel.  (23)  Her  un- 
common loveliness  struck  all  the  spectators  with  astonish- 
ment; for  she  was  as  a  sunbeam  of  beauty,  in  which 
nature  had  created  everything  pure  and  perfect,  and 
failed  in  nothing  but  in  denying  her  tbe  attribute  of  im- 
mortality.* Her  hair  glittered  like  the  snow,  beneath 
which  a  brow  of  milky  whiteness,  smooth  and  unwrinkled 
as  a  plain,  peacefully  rested.  Her  eyes  resembled  the 
changeableness,  not  the  prodigality,')'  of  two  luminous 
orbs ;  for  their  gaze  was  directed  by  an  unshaken  modesty, 
which  indicated  a  constant  and  enduring  mind.  Her  eye- 
brows were  naturally  and  excellently  placed ;  and  her 
shapely  nose,  describing  a  straight  line,  rose  centrically 
upon  the  face.  It  possessed  neither  too  much  length  nor 
too  little.  Her  neck  was  whiter  than  the  solar  rays,  and 
ornamented  with  precious  stones;  while  her  countenance, 
full  of  unspeakable  joy,  communicated  happiness  to  all 
who  looked  on  her.  She  was  exquisitely  formed  ;  and  the 
most  critical  investigation  could  not  discover  more  or  less 
than  there  ought  to  be.  Her  beautiful  arms,  like  the 
branches  of  some  fair  tree,  descended  from  her  well-turned 
breast ;  to  which,  delicately  chiselled  fingers,  not  out- 
shone by  tbe  lightning,  were  attached.  In  short,  she  was 
outwardly  a  perfect  model, — Hashing  through  which,  the 
divine  spark  of  soul  her  Creator  had  implanted  might  be 
gloriously  distinguished.  (24)     Works  of  power  ought  to 

*  "Quoniam  verue  erat  pulohritudinia  radius:  in  quo  nature,  nihil 
viciosum  cotmtituit;  nii-i  ijiiinl  cam  immortal  cm  nou  formaverat." 
This  ia  far  beyon.l  tin;  aominon  .-.train  of  a  monkish  imagination ;  and, 
iu  truth,  the  whole  pasaage  forma  a  brilliant  description  of  female 
beauty.    See  Note  24. 

i  Prodijrality  (in  the  original,  prodique)  seems  to  imply  an  im- 
pTidunt  «tare ;  an  eye  proili^.il  '■('it»  i'avmir.-i,  :is  may  be  said  of  a  star. 
The  chaugeableneaa  of  the  eye  id  a  great  beauty.  Pope  says  of  his 
bulimia — 

"  Her  lovely  looks  a  eprightly  mind  disclose. 
Quiok  as  iier  eves,  ulal  v.i  unlu-ed  aa  those." 

llape  d/  the  Lock 


OF  TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  2/it 

Accord  with  each,  other :  and  hence  all  corporal  beauty 
"Hginates  in  the  soul's  loveliness.  It  has  even  been  said, 
that  mental  excellence,  however  various,  adapts  the  mass 
'if  matter  to  itself.* 

Be  this  as  it  may,  the  most  perfect  adaptation  of  soul 
and  body  existed  in  this  lady,  now  discovered  by  Cerimon. 
"Fair  girl,"  said  he,  "how  earnest  thou  so  utterly  for- 
saken?" The  money,  which  had  been  placed  beneath  her 
head,  now  attracted  his  attention,  and  then  the  scroll  of 
J'.'jiil  presented  itself. 

"  Let  us  examine  what  it  contains." 
He  opened  it  iiceordi ugly,  and  ri.'iid  as  follows  : — 
"  Whomsoever  thou  art  that  findest  this  chest,  I  entreat 
thy  acceptance  of  ten  pieces  of  gold  ;  the  other  ten  expend, 
I  pray  thee,  on  a  funeral.  For  the  corse  it  shrouds  hath 
left  tears  and  sorrows  enough  to  the  authors  of  her  being. 
If  thou  dost  neglect  my  request,  I  imprecate  upon  thee 
curses  against  the  day  of  judgment,  and  devote  thy  body 
to  death,  mil  ion  on  red  and  miinhurned."  j 

When  the  physician  had  read,  lie  directed  Ids  servants 
to  comply  with  the  mourner's  injunction.  "  And  I  solemnly 
vow,"  added  he,  "to  expend  mure  than  his  sorrow' requires.'' 
Immediately  he  bade  them  prepare  a  funeral  pile.  When 
this  was  done,  and  everything  laid  in  order,  a  pupil  of  the 
physician,  a  young  man.  hut  possessing  the  wisdom  of  old 
age,  came  to  look  upon  the  lady.  As  he  considered  her 
fair  form  attentively,  already  laid  upon  the  pile,  his 
preceptor  said  to  him,  "  You  come  opportunely ;  I  have 
expected  you  this  hour.  Get  a  vial  of  precious  ointment, 
and,  in  honour  of  this  bright  creature,  pour  it  upon  the 
funeral  pile."  The  youth  obeyed,  approached  the  body, 
and  drawing  the  garments  from  her  breast,  poured  out  the 
ointment.  But  accidentally  passing  his  hand  over  her  heart, 
*  These  are  Plutonie  fanciefl. 
+  "  Here  I  give  to  understand, 
(If  e'er  this  coffin  drive  u-lotid,) 

LI,  king  Pericles,  have  lost 
Tliid  queen,  worth  all  our  mundane  coat. 
Who  finds  her,  give  her  burying, 
She  va.5  the  daughter  of  11  king : 
Itf!.i(it-d  this  Injure  for  ft  fee, 
The  soda  require  hie  charity ! "    Bhasjhfeabk,  Fericlet. 


aso 


GESTA   KOMAXOKCM. 


ho  fancied  that  it  beat.  The  youth  was  electrified.  He 
touched  the  veins,  mill  searched  if  any  breath  issued  from 
the  nostrils.  He  pressed  his  lips  to  hers ;  and  he  thought 
he  felt  life  struggling  with  death.  Calling  hastily  to  the 
.servants,  he  bade  them  place  torches  at  each  corner  of  the 
bier.  When  they  had  dune  this,  the  blood,  which  had  been 
i-< litguluted,  presently  liquefied;  and  the  young  inan,  at- 
tentive to  thi:  clismgc,  oxcliiimiid  to  his  master,  '"She  lives! 
she  lives!  You  scarcely  credit  me;  come  and  see."  As 
lie  spoke,  he  bore  the  lady  to  his  own  chamber.  Then 
heating  oil  upon  his  breast,  he  steeped  in  it  a  piece  of 
wool,  and  laid  it  upon  her  body.  By  these  means,  the 
congealed  blood  being  dissolved,  I:  ho  spirit  again  penetrated 
to  the  marrows.*  Thus,  the  veins  being  cleared,  her  eyes 
opened,  and  respiration  returned,  f  "  What  are  you  ?  "  said 
she.  "  Touch  mo  not  otherwise  than  I  ought  to  lw  touched  : 
for  I  am  the  daughter  and  the  wife  of  a  king."  Full  of 
rapture  at  the  sound  of  her  voice,  the  young  man  hurried 
into  his  master's  room,  and  related  what  had  occurred. 
"  I  approve  your  skill,"  returned  lie,  "  I  magnify  your  art, 
and  wonder  at  your  prudence.  Mark  the  results  of  learn- 
ing, and  be  not  ungrateful  to  science.  Receive  now  thy 
reward ;  for  the  lady  brought  much  wealth  with  her." 
Cerimon  then  directed  food  and  clothes  to  be  conveyed  to 
her,  and  administered  the  best  restoratives.  A  few  ill.''* 
after  her  recovery,  .she  declared  her  birth  and  misfortune. 
and  the  good  physician,  commiserating  her  situation, 
adopted  her  as  his  daughter.      With  tears  she  aoheiitJ 


fc 


t  "  Eider  n  S-rnml,  trilh  l.t,ri-*,  mi /A  ins,  aadjire. 
Cer.  Well  said,  well  hiih!  :  the  lire  and  the  clotas.- 
The  rough  and  woeful  music  that  wo  have. 
Cause  it  to  sound,  'beseech  you. 

The  viol  niiei.-  mere  ;— How  thou  slirr'st,  thou  block  !— 
The  music  there. — I  pray  you,  give  her  air: — 
Gentlemen, 

This  <]iii  en  will  live  :  nature  awakei ;  a  warmth 
Ureal  hes  out  of  her:  she  hath  not  been  entranced 
Abova  Ave  hours.     See,  how  she  'gins  to  blow 
Into  life's  flower  again  t "  KuASEdPEASE,  Fe 


.-<!* 


OF   TEMPORAL  TRIBULATION. 


281 


-_  reside  among  the  vestals  of  Diana ;  and 
lie  placed  her  with  certain  female  attendants  in  the  mag- 
nificent temple  of  the  goddess. 

In  the  mean  while  Apollonius,  guided  by  the  good 
providence  of  God,  arrived  at  Tharaus,  and  disembarking, 
sought  the  mansion  of  Stranguilio  and  Dionyeias.  After 
mutual  greetings,  he  narrated  his  adventures.  "  Wretched 
as  I  am  in  the  death  of  a  beloved  wife,  I  have  yet  cause 
for  joy  in  the  existence  of  this  infant.  To  you  I  will 
intrust  her;  for  never,  since  his  offspring  has  perished, 
will  I  again  revisit  the  old  Altistrates.  But  educate  my 
girl  with  your  own  daughter  Philomatia;*  and  call  her 
after  your  city,  by  the  name  of  Tharsia.t  I  would,  more- 
over, pray  you  to  take  charge  of  her  nurse,  Ligoridis." 
With  such  words,  he  gave  the  child  up  to  them,  accom- 
panied by  large  presents  of  gold  and  silver,  and  valuable 
raiment.  He  then  took  an  oath  that  he  would  neither  cut 
his  beard,  or  hair,  or  nails,  until  his  daughter  were  he- 
stowed  in  marriage.lf  Grieving  at  the  rashness  of  the  vow, 
Stranguilio  took  the  infant,  and  promised  to  educate  it 
•with  the  utmost  care;  and  ApuJk'iiius.  snii^-lied  with  the 
assurance,  went  on  board  his  vessel,  and  sailed  to  other 
countries. 

While  these  things  were  transacting,  Tharsia  attained 
hor  fifth  year,  and  commenced  a  course  of  liberal  studies 
with  the  young  Philomatia,  her  companion.  When  eho 
was  fourteen,  returning  from  school,  she  found  her  nurse, 
Ligoridis,  taken  with  a  sudden  indisposition,  and  seating 
herself  near  the  old  woman,  kindly  inquired  the  cause. 
"My  dear  daughter,"  replied  she,  "hear  my  words,  and 
treasure  them  in  your  heart.  Whom  do  you  believe  to 
be  your  father  and  mother ;  and  which  is  your  native 
country?"  "  Tharsus,"  returned  she,  "is  the  place  of 
my  nativity  ;  my   father,    Stranguilio,   and    my  mother, 

*  In  Shakespeare,  Philoten. 

t  Called  Marina  in  Shakos  poare. 
I  "Pur.  Till  i-hi;  lie  iiiiirrii.d,  mailnm, 
By  bright  Diana,  whom  we  honour  all. 
Uneciasored  shall  this  hnir  of  mine  remain, 
Tho'  I  show  will '  in't."  Shakh^'eare,  Peridei. 


I 


232  GESTA   BOM4XOEC3L 

Jjionyeiafl."  The  nurse  groaned,  and  said,  "  My  daughter, 
listen  to  me ;  I  will  tell  you  to  whom  yon  owe  your  birth, 
in  order  that,  when  I  am  dead,  yon  may  have  some  guide 
for  your  future  actions.  Your  father  is  called  Apollonius ; 
and  your  mother's  name  is  Ludna,  the  daughter  of  King 
Altistrates.  She  died  the  moment  you  were  bora ;  and 
Apollonius,  adorning  her  with  regal  vesture,  cast  the  chest 
which  contained  her  into  the  sea.  Twenty  aestertia  of  gold 
were  placed  beneath  her  head,  and  whosoever  discovered 
it  was  entreated  to  give  her  buriaL  The  ship  in  which 
your  unhappy  father  sailed.  tos»ed  to  and  fro  by  the  winds 
which  formed  your  cradle,  at  last  put  into  this  port,  where 
we  were  hospitably  received  by  Strangnilio  and  Dionysias. 
to  whom  your  sire  also  recommended  me.  He  then  made 
a  vow  never  to  clip  his  beard,  or  hair,  or  nails,  until  you 
were  married.  Now,  I  advise  that  if,  after  my  death, 
your  present  friends  would  do  you  an  injury,  hasten  into 
the  forum,  and  there  you  will  find  a  statue  of  your  father. 
Cling  to  it,  and  state  yourself  the  daughter  of  him  whose 
statue  that  is.  The  citizens,  mindful  of  the  benefits 
received  from  him,  will  avenge  your  wrong."  "My  dear 
nurse,"  answered  Tharsia,  "  you  tell  me  strange  things,  of 
which,  till  now,  I  was  ignorant."  After  some  future  dis- 
course, Ligi.li  idiri  gave  up  the  ghost.  Tharsia  attended  her 
obsequies,  and  lamented  her  a  full  year. 

After  this,  she  returned  to  her  studies  in  the  schools. 
Her  custom  was.  on  returning,  Tiever  to  eat.  until  she  hail 
been  to  the  monument  erected  in  honour  of  her  nurse. 
.She  carried  with  her  a  flask  of  wine,  and  there  tarried, 
invoking  the  name  of  her  beloved  and  lamented  parents. 
Whilst  she  was  thus  employed,  Dionysus,  with  her 
daughter  Philomatia,  passed  through  the  forum ;  and  the 
citizens,  who  had  caught  a  gliinpso  of  Tharsia's  form, 
exclaimed,  "  Happy  father  of  the  lovely  Tharsia ;  but  as 
for  her  companion,  she  is  a  shame  and  a  disgrace."  The 
mother,  hearing  her  daughter  vilified,  while  the  stranger 
was  commended,  turned  away  in  a  madness  of  fury.  She 
retired  to  solitary  communication  with  herself.  "  For 
fourteen  years,"  muttered  she,  "  the  father  has  neglected 
his  daughter;  he  has  sent  no  letters,  and  certainly  he  is 
dead.     The  nurse  is  also  dead,  and   there  is  no  c 


in  \   ne   ia 


OF   TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  283 

oppose  me.     I  will  kill  her,  and  deck  my  own  girl  with 

her  ornaments."    As  she  thus  thought,  her  steward,  named 

Theophilus,*  entered.     She  called  liim,  and  promising  a 

vast  reward,  desired  him  to  put  Tliarsia  to  death.     "  What 

hath  the  maid  done  ?  "  asked  he.     "  She  hath  done  the 

■very  worst  things;  you  ought  net  therefore  to  deny  me. 

Do  what  I  command  you  ;  if  you  do  it  not,  you  will  bring 

evU  on  yourself."     "  Tell  me,  lady,  how  is  it  to  be  done?" 

"  Her  custom  is,"  replied  Dionysias,  "  on  coming  from 

the  schools,  not  to  take  food  until  she  has  entered  her 

nurse's  monument ;  arm  yourself  with  a  dagger,  seize  her 

by  the  hair  of  the  head,  and  there  stab  her.     Then  throw 

her  body  into  the  sea,  and  come  to  me ;  I  will  give  you 

your  liberty,  with  a  large  reward."  t    The  steward,  taking 

the  weapon,  went  with  much  sorrow  to  the  monument. 

"  Alas !  "  said  he,  "  shall  I  not  deserve  liberty  except  by 

the  sacrifice  of  a  virgin's  life  "'.  "  JIo  entered  the  monument, 

where  Tharsia,  after  her  occupation  in  the  schools,  had  as 

usual  retired ;  the  flask  of  wine  was  in  her  hand.     The 

steward  attacked  the  poor  girl,  and,  seizing  her  by  the 

hair,  threw  her  upon  the  ground.     But  as  he  was  on  the 

point  of  striking,    Tharsia  cried  out,  "  Oh,  Theophilus ! 

what  crime  have  I  committed  against  you,  or  against  any 

other,  that  I  should  die?"     "You  are  innocent,"  answered 

he,  "of  everything,  save  possessing  a  sum  of  money  and 

certain  royal  ornaments  left  you  by  your  father."     "  Oh, 

sir ! "  said  the  forsaken  orphan,  "  if  I  have  no  hope,  yet 

suffer  mo  to  supplicate  my  Maker  before  I  die."     "  l)o  so," 

answered  the  steward,  "  and  God  knows  that  it  is  upon 

*  Id  Shakespeare,  Leonine. 

t  "Dion.  Thy  natli  remember;  thou  hast  sworn  to  do  it; 

'Tia  but  11  blow,  wliit'li  never  .-bull  I*  known. 

Thou  canst  not  do  a  thing  i'  the  world  so  soon, 

To  yieh)  tln-e  !•'■  Hindi  [irofit.      let  not  conscienoo, 

Which  is  hut  cold,  inHume  lovo  in  thy  bosom, 

Inflame  too  nfaelj  :  nor  let  pity,  which 

n  have  cast  off,  molt  thou,  but  bo 


tajJifctsl'LABK,  1'triclei. 


r 


284  GESTA    RDMANOnnM. 

compulsion  that  I  slay  thee."  Now,  while  the  girl  mil 
engaged  in  prayer,  certain  piTatesvniahed  into  the  tuolii- 
rnent,  expecting  to  carry  off  a  booty;  and  observing  a 
young  maid  |*r<.>st  rated,  and  a  man  standing  over  her  in 
the  act  to  destroy  her,  they  shouted  out.  "'  Stop,  barbaric' 
that  is  oiir  pi"ey,  not  your  victory."  Theophitus.  full  of 
terror,  fled  hastily  from  the  monument  and  hid  hinuselfly 
the  shore.  (25) 

The  pirates  carried  off  the  maid  to  sea  ■  and  the  steward, 
returning  to  his  mistress,  assured  her  that  he  had  obeyed 
her  commands.  "  I  advise  you,"  said  he,  "  to  put  on  u 
mourning  garment,  which  I  also  will  do,  and  shed  tear* 
for  her  death.  This  will  deceive  the  citizens,  to  whom 
we  will  say  that  she  was  taken  off  by  a  sickness."  When 
■Stranguilio  heard  what  had  boon  done,  his  grief  was  sin- 
cere and  violent.  "  I  will  clothe  myself  in  deep  mourning," 
cried  he,  "for  I  too  am  involved  in  this  fearful  enormity. 
Alas !  what  can  I  do  ?  Her  father  freed  our  city  from 
a  lingering  death.  ThroWgh  our  means  he  suffered  sLip- 
wreck ;  he  lost  his  property,  and  underwent  the  externa 
of  poverty.  Yet  we  return  him  evil  for  good!  Ho  in- 
trusted his  daughter  to  our  care,  and  a  savage  lionets  hsili 
devoured  her !  Blind  wretch  that  I  was  !  Innocent,  I 
grieve.  I  am  bound  to  a  base  and  venomous  serpent- 
Lifting  up  his  eyes  to  heaven,  he  continued,  "0  God, 
thou  knowest  that  I  am  free  from  the  blood  of  thi6  girl- 
require  her  of  Dionysias."  Then  fixing  a  stern  look  upon 
his  wife,  "  Enemy  of  God,  and  disgrace  of  man,  thou  W 
destroyed  the  daughter  of  a  king." 

Dionysias  made  much  apparent  lamentation:  she  pit 
her  household  into  mourning,  and  wept  bitterly  before  (It 
citizens.  "  My  good  friends,"  said  she,  "  the  hope  of  W 
eyes,  the  beloved  Tharsia,  is  gone — she  is  dead.  Our  ttar8 
shall  bedew  the  marble  which  we  have  raised  to  iwi 
memory."  The  people  then  hastened  to  the  phiw  »!i'  "■' 
her  form,  moulded  in  brass,  had  been  erected,  in  gratiwd" 
for  the  benefits  conferred  upon  that  city  by  her  father.' 


Ie  almost  (in idled,  and  her  epitaph* 

In  .diTtiTini.'  j^elili-ii  chanietera  espreas 

A  general  praise  to  bur."        Shah. Ear kahe,  ftr#» 


OF  TEMPORAL  TRIBULATION.  285 

The  pirates  transported  the  maid  to  Machilenta,*  where 
she  was  placed  among  other  slaves  for  sale.  A  most 
wretched  and  debauched  pimp,  hearing  of  her  perfections, 
endeavoured  to  buy  her.  But  Athanagoras,  prince  of  that 
city,  observing  her  lofty  port,  her  beautiful  countenance, 
and  wise  conduct,  offered  ten  golden  sestertia* 

P.   I  will  give  twenty. 

Athanag.  And  I,  thirty, 

P.  Forty. 

Athanag.  Fifty. 

P.  Eighty. 

Athanag.  Ninety. 

P.  I  will  give  a  hundred  aeetertia  in  ready  money ;  if 
any  one  offer  more,  I  will  give  tea  gold  -sestertia  above. 

"  Why  should  I  contend  any  farther  with  this  pimp," 
thought  Athanagoras.  "  I  may  purchase  a  dozen  for  the 
price  she  will  coat  him.  Let  him  have  her ;  and  by  and 
hy  I  will  enter  covertly  his  dwelling  and  solicit  her  love." 

Thareia  was  conducted  by  the  pimp  to  a  house  of  ill 
fame,  in  an  apartment  of  which  there  was  a  golden 
Priapns,  richly  ornamented  with  gems. 

"  Girl !  worship  that  image,"  said  the  wretch. 

Tkareia.  I  may  not  worship  any  such  thing.  Oh,  tny 
lord !  are  you  not  a  Lapaateuarian.f 

P.  Why? 

Thartia.  Because  the  Lapsateni  worship  Priapus. 

P.  Know  you  not,  wretched  girl,  that  you  have  entered 
the  house  of  a  greedy  pimp  ? 

Casting  herself  at  his  feet,  she  exclaimed,  "  Oh,  sir ! 
do  not  dishonour  me ;  be  not  guilty  of  such  a  flagrant 
outrage." 

P.  Are  you  ignorant  that,  with  a  pimp  and  the  tor 
turer,  neither  prayers  nor  tears  are  available  ? 

He  sent  for  the  overseer  of  the  women,  and  desired  hi  in 

*  M~itylfrn£  in  Shakepeare. 

t  Of  the  Lapsateni,  I  am  unable  to  give  any  account,  unless  they 
are  ropaot  for  the  Lamjreaaeni,  the  people  of  Lampaacus,  a  city  In 
Asia,  upon  the  Hi-llnapnnt.  They  were  worshippers  of  Priapus,  in 
«Mob  place  this  divinity  is  said  to  have  had  his  birth. 

On  referring  to  the  romance  of  ApolliMiius  (i.e.  the  A'uvratio, &t^, 
I  find  roy  «imposition  confirmed,     it  is  there  wuUuo  Lo.m-nso.ceai. 


286  GESTA    HOMANORUW. 

to  array  Thursia  in  the  most  splendid  apparel,  and  pro- 
claim around  the  city  the  price  of  her  dishonour,*     The 
overseer  did  as  he  was  ordered  ;  arid  on  the  third  day  u 
crowd  of  people-  arrived,  preceded  by  the  pimp  with  music 
But  Athanngoras  came  first  in  a  mask,  am!  Tharsia.  look- 
ing despairingly    upon    him,   throw  herself  at   his   feet, 
"  Pity  tne,  my  lord ;  pity  mo,  for  the  love  of  Heaven,    By 
that   Heaven  I  adjure  you  to  save  mo  from  dishonour, 
Hear  my  story  ;  ami  knowing  from  whom  I  sprung,  respect 
my  descent  and  defend  my  innocence."      She  then  details! 
the  whole  fortunes  of  her  life  ;  and  Athanagoras,  confmteJ 
and  penitent,  exclaimed,  "Alas !  and  I  too  have  a  daughter, 
whom  fate  may  in  like  manner  afflict.     In  your  mn£r 
tune»   I   may  apprehend   hers.      Here   are   twenty  nU 
pieces ;  it  is  more  than  your  barbarous  master  exacts  an 
you.     Relate  your  narrative  to  the  next  comers,  and  it 
will  insure  your  freedom."      Full   of  gratitude  for  the 
generous  treatment  hlii'  experienced,  Tliavsia  returned  liim 
thanks,  hut  entreated  that  her  story  might  not  he  wro- 
mnnicated  to  others.     "  To  none  but  my  own  daughter," 
«aid  ho,  "  for  it  will  he  replete  with  moral  nHviuii  *_'■ 
Sn  wiving,  and  shedding  some  tears  over  her  fallen  etrtnli'i 
he  departed.    As  he  went  out  ho  mot  a  friend.  whOBtepftJ 
him  and  asked  how  the  girl  had  behaved.     ••  Non.-  I «■« 
returned  the  prince ;  "  but  she  is  very  sorrowful."    Tti* 
youth  entered,  and   she   closed   the   door  as  on  the  femwf 
occasion.     "How  much  has  the  prince-  given  you?"aslt«l 
he.     "  Forty  pieces,"  answered  the  girl. 

"Here,  then  ;  take  the  whole  pound  of  gold."  t  Thttrsi» 
took  the  present,  but  falling  at  his  feet,  explained  In'* 
situation.  Aporiatus  (for  that  was  the  young  man's  rnun'i 
answered,  "  Rise,  lady ;  we  are  men.  All  of  us  are  nlrj* ' 
tit  misfortunes."  He  went  out,  and  olasorvme;  Atliii:i-'ip,|;i' 
laughing,  said  to  him,  "  You  a.ro  a  fine  fellow  !  Hsto  yuu 
nobody  to  pledge  in  tears  but  mo?"  Afraid  ilmt  W* 
words  should  betray  the  matter,  they  gave  another  w 

"  "  QiiiiMiii'iU"  TlnirsiiiJti  vinliivi'i'it  meilium  liliniin  dibit;  p'M 
ai!  fl:n£Til(W  seliiie-  T...*..l.i»  w«»I"  " 

t    "  l'riln-r|is  . 


OF   TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  287 

to  the  discourse,*  and  awaited  tlie  coming  of  some  other 
person.  Great  numbers  appeared,  but  they  all  returned 
in  tears,  having  givL-u  ken  sums  of  money.  Tharsia  having 
obtained  the  sum  which  the  pimp  had  fixed  as  the  price 
of  her  dishonuur,  presented  it  to  him.  "  Take  care,"  said 
the  monster,  "  that  you  bring  mo  whatever  money  is  pre- 
sented to  you."  But  the  next  day,  understanding  that  she 
yet  preserved  her  honour,  Ids  rage  knew  no  bounds ;  and 
he  immediately  commissioned  the  overseer  of  the  women 
to  complete  the  iniquity.  When  he  appeared,  the  poor 
girl's  tears  flowed  in  profusion.  "Pity  me,  sir,"  she  said, 
falling  at  his  feet;  "  my  misfortunes  have  created  the  com- 
passion of  others,  and  surely  you  will  not  alone  spurn  my 
request.  I  am  the  daughter  of  a  king ;  do  not  dishonour 
me."  "  This  pimp,"  replied  he,  "  is  avaricious :  I  know 
not  what  I  can  do."  "  Sir,"  answered  Tharsia,  "  I  have 
been  educated  in  liberal  pursuits.  I  understand  music ; 
if,  therefore,  you  will  lead  mo  to  I  lie  forum,  you  shall  hear 
my  performance!  Propose  question»  to  the  people,  and  I 
will  expound  them  ;  I  have  no  doubt  but  I  shall  receive 
money  enough."  "  Well,"  said  the  fellow,  "I  will  do  as 
you  would  have  mo." 

Proclamation  being  made,  the  people  crowded  to  the 
forum;  and  her  eloquence  and  beauty  impressed  them  all. 
Whatever  question  they  proposed,  she  lucidly  answered  ; 
and  by  these  means  drew  much  wealth  from  the  curious 
citizens.!     Athanagoraa,  also,  watched  over  her  with  much 

*  The  original  k-\t  is.  "  JurahmU-  no  luce  voriui  oni'jue  proderent," 
which  mums,  I  Kiipim.-jO.  that  tln.-y  cwr.-<fiircd  to  render  the  worda  un- 
intelligible to  others. 

+  "Marina.  If  Ibut  Ihy  mulu  would  gain  aught  by  me 
Proclaim  that  I  con  Ring,  weave,  sew,  and  dance, 
With  other  i  irtnes,  wlii-'ii  I'll  kr>-i>  I'rnm  boast; 
And  I  will  ihiiIi.ti.lIii!  nil  llu.s,-  !.->  tench  ''  Khakkijt'eare,  Peridot. 

»\  "  Gout.  Marion  thu-  tin)  brothel  acapes,  ami  chances 
Into  an  honest  house,  our  story  says. 
She  sings  like  one  immortal,  and  she  dances 
As  goddesa-iike  to  hor  :idmirod  lays: 
Deep  clerk  she  dumbs:  and  will.  hi.T  iiculd  composes 
Nature's  own  shape,  of  bud.  bird,  branch,  or  berry  ; 
That  even  hor  art  sinter*  i  in-  natural  rosea  ; 
Her  inkle,  silk,  twin  with  Hie  rubied  cherry  : 
That  pupils  lacks  she  none  of  noble  race, 
Who  pour  their  bounty  on  her."  TJjid.. 


8  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

anxiety— with  little  leas,  indeed,  than  ho  showed  to  lii' 
wily  child.  He  recommended  her  to  the  care  of  the  ow 
seer,  and  bought  him  to  his  interest  by  valuable  presents. 

Let  uh  now  return  to  Apollonius.  After  a  lapse  of 
fourteen  years,  lie  again  made  liis  appearance  at  the  house 
of  Stranguilio  and  Dionysias,  in  the  city  of  Tharsns:  no 
Knoner  had  the  former  beheld  him,  than  he  strode  about 
like  a  madman.  "  Woman,"  said  he,  addressing  his  wife, 
"  what  wjlt  thon  do  now?  Thini  hast  said  that  Apollonius 
was  shipwrecked  and  dead.  Behold,  he  seeks  his  rlnu^lif'.'r; 
what  answer  shall  we  make?"  "Foolish  man,"  returned 
she,  "  let  ns  resume  our  mourning,  and  have  recourse  to 
tears.  He  will  believe  that  his  child  died  a  natural  dwti. ' 
As  she  said  this,  A  poll  on  ins  entered.  Observing  their 
funeral  habiliments,  he  asked,  "Do  you  grieve  at  my 
return?  Those  tears,  I  fear,  are  not  for  yourselves,  Wt 
for  me."  "  Alas !  "  replied  the  woman,  "  I  would  to 
Heaven  that  another,  and.  not  me  or  my  husband,  bad  to 
detail  to  yon  what  I  must  say.  Your  daughter  Thaw» 
is  suddenly  dead !  "  Apollonius  trembled  through  every 
limb,  and  then  stood  iixed  as  a  statue. 

"Oh,  woman,  if  my  daughter  lie  really  as  you  dc-SL-rib*. 
have  her  money  and  ilothes  also  perished?"  "  Some  ]*ti 
of  both,"  replied  Dionysius,  ■•  is  of  course  expended;  but 
that  you  may  not  hesitate  to  give  faith  t< 1  uur  assurance*, 
we  will  produce  testimony  in  our  behalf.  The  eiferA 
mindful  of  your  munificence,  have  raised  a  brazen  monu- 
ment to  her  memory,  which  your  own  eyes  may  see. 
Apollonius,  thus  imposed  upon,  said  to  his  servauts,  "  Go 
ye  to  the  ship;  I  will  visit  the  grave  of  my  unluri'y 
child."  There  he  read  the  inscription,  as  we  have  detail™ 
above,  and  then,  as  if  imprecating  a  curse  upon  his  own 
eyes,  he  exclaimed  in  a  paroxysm  of  mental  agony,  "Bale- 
ful, cruel  sources  of  perception,  do  ye  now  refuse  tears  to 
the' memory  of  my  lamented  girl."  With  expressions  lit'' 
these,  he  hastened  to  hie  ship,  and  entreated  his  servants 
to  cast  him  into  the  sea." 

They  set  sail  for  Tyre,  and  for  a  time  the  breeze*  We"' 
prosperously;  but  changing,  they  were  driven  considerably 

*  The  wlidlc  "f  I  lie  «We  is  i;Sj>ri*sed  bv  Slinks  j>ran?  (or,  *t  I™*1 
by  the  writer  of  Pericles,  Prince  of  Tyre)  In  dumb  show. 


OF   TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  289 

out  of  their  course.  Guided  by  the  good  providence  of 
God,  they  entered  the  port  of  Machilona,*  where  his 
daughter  still  abode.  The  pilot  and  the  rest  of  the  crew 
shouted  loudly  on  their  approach  to  land,  and  Apollonius 
sent  to  inquire  the  cause.  "  My  lord,"  answered  the  pilot, 
"  the  people  of  Machilona  are  engaged  in  celebrating  a 
birthday. '  Apollonius  groaned,  "  All  can  keep  their 
birthdays  except  me.  But  it  is  enough  that  I  am  miser- 
able ;  I  give  my  attendants  ten  pieces  of  gold,  and  let 
them  enjoy  the  festival.  And  whosoever  presumes  to 
utter  my  name,  or  rejoice  in  my  hearing,  command  that 
his  legs  he  immediately  broken."  t  The  steward  took  the 
necessary  sums,  and  having  purchased  supplies,  returned 
to  the  ship.  Now,  the  bark  which  contained  Apollonius 
being  more  honourable  than  the  rest,  the  feast  was  cele- 
brated there  more  sumptuously.  It  happened  that 
Athanagoras,  who  was  enamoured  of  the  fair  Tharsia, 
walked  upon  the  sea-shore  near  the  king's  ship. 
"  Friends,"  said  he  to  those  who  accompanied  him,  "  that 
vessel  pleases  roe."  The  sailors  with  which  she  was 
manned,  hearing  him  applaud  their  vessel,  invited  him 
on  board.  IJe  went  accordingly ;  and  laying  down  ten 
gold  pieces  upon  the  table,  observed,  "  You  have  not 
invited  me  for  nothing."  They  thanked  him;  and,  in 
answer  to  certain  questions  he  had  put,  informed  the 
prince  that  their  lord  was  in  great  affliction,  and  wished 
to  die :  they  added,  that  he  had  lost  a  wife  and  daughter 
in  a  foreign  country.  "I  will  give  you  two  pieces  of 
gold,"  said  Athanagoras  to  Ardalius.  one  of  the  sorvants. 
"  if  you  will  go  and  say  to  him  that  the  prince  of  this  city 
dosires  a  conference."  "  Two  gold  pieces,"  answered  the 
person  he  spoke  to,  "will  not  repair  my  broken  legs.  I 
pray  you  send  another ;  for  he  has  determined  thus  to 
punish  any  one  who  approaches  him."  "  He  made  this 
law  for  you,"  returned  the  prince,  "  but  not,  I  think,  for 
me  :  I  will  descend  myself;  rill  me  his  name."  They  told 
him — Apollonius.  "Apollonius?"  said  he  to  hiniBelf;  "so 
Tharsia  calls  her  father." 

*  Miiyhne   ia   evidently  meant;  both  here,  and   in  the   former 
mention  of  Machilenta. 

t  Another  testimony  of  Eastern  origin. 


290  T.ESTA   ROMANORUM, 


290 

He  hastened  into  his  presence,  and  beheld  a  forlorn  ar^^1* 
desolate  person.  His  beard  was  of  great  length,  and  li— - — ia( 
head  in  the  wildest  disorder.  In  a  low,  subdued  tone  ^^"°' 
voice,  he  said,  "  Hail,  Apollonius !  "  Apollonius,  supposin-^J'S 
it  to  be  one  of  his  own  people,  fixed  on  him  a  furious  look^^"' 
hut,  seeing  an  honourable  and  handsome  man,  remaine  -^^™ 
silent.  "Yon  are  doubtless  surprised,"  said  the  princ^^^*' 
"at  my  intrusion.  I  am  called  Athanagoras,  and  ai**^0 
prince  of  this  cito.  Observing  your  fleet  riding  at  anchor  '— r 
from  the  shore,  I  was  attracted  by  it ;  and  amongst  othec^  ~r 

things,  being  struck  with  the  superior  structure  of  thi. ft  s 

vessel,  your  sailors  invited  me  on  board.     I  inquired  foj»»^ 
their  lord,  and  they  answered  that  he  was  overwhelm e^=3 

with  grief.     I  have  therefore  ventured  hither,  in  the  h"p" a 

of  administering  comfort  to  you,  and  drawing  you  "i™=i 
more  into  the  light  of  joy.     I  pray  God  that  it  may  prove^^s 

so."      Apollonius  raised  his  head.     "  Whomsoever  you  are,, , 

go  in  peace.  I  am  unworthy  to  appear  at  the  banquet^  ; 
and  I  do  not  desire  to  live."  Perplexed,  yet  anxious  t"* — ~~> 
console  the  unhappy  king,  Athanagoras  returned  upon^^i 
deck ;  and  despatched  a  messenger  to  the  pimp,  to  require  ~~ 
the  immediate  presence  of  Tharsia,  whose  musical  skill 
and  eloquence,  he  thought,  could  not  but  produce  somt— = 
effect.*  She  camo,  and  received  instructions  from  *l"  ■  ~ 
prince.  "  If  you  succeed,"  said  he,  "  in  softening  fhii=~~= 
royal  person's  affliction,  I  will  present  to  you  thirty  goli^^K 
sestertia,  and  as  many  of  silver ;  moreover,  for  thirty  days- 

*  "  Lye.  Sir  king,  all  hail  I  the  gods  preserve  yon  I    Hail, 
Hail,  royal  sir  I 

He!..  It  is  in  vain  ;  he  will  not  apeak  to  you. 

1  Lord.  Sir,  w<_-  have  a  maid  in  Mitylene,  1  durst  Wager, 
Would  win  some  words  of  him, 

Ly>.  'Tis  well  bethought. 
She,  questionless,  willi  Iht  sweet  harmony 
And  other  choice  attractions,  would  allure, 
And  make  n  battery  through  his  deafen'd  parti, 
Which  now  are  midway  stopp'd  : 
She,  all  ns  li:i],|!y  as  of  nil  the  fairest, 
Is,  witll  her  fillnv.  >n:i!!,!ii-.  nnw  witbin 
The  leafy  shelter,  that  abuts  against 
Tho  island's  side." 

Shakesfeabb,  Ptriclt*. 


OF   TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  2D1 

redeem  yon  from  the  power  of  your  master."  *  The  girl 
accordingly  prepared  herself  for  the  task.  Approaching 
the  mourner,  "  Heaven  keep  you,"  said  she,  in  a  low  plain 
live  voice,  "  and  make  you  happy ;  a  virgin  that  hath 
preserved  her  honour  amid  her  misfortunes  salutes  you.7' 
She  then  sang  to  an  instrument,  with  such  a  sweet  and 
ravishing  melody,  that  Apollonius  was  enchanted.  Her 
songf  related  to  the  fortunes  she  had  experienced,  and  was 
to  the  following  effect  : — That  she  fell  into  the  hands  of 
dishonest  people,  who  sought  to  traffic  with  her  virtue : 
but  that  she  passed  ini  tocent  through  all  her  trials. 
•'  Thus,"  continued  she,  "  the  rose  is  protected  by  its 
thorns.  They  who  bore  me  off  heat  down  the  sword  of 
the  smiter.  I  preserved  my  virtue  when  attacked  by  my 
brutal  owner.  The  wounds  of  the  mind  linger,  and  tears 
fail.  In  me  behold  the  only  offspring  of  a  royal  house. 
Contain  your  tears,  and  limit  your  anxiety.  Look  up  to 
heaven,  and  raise  your  thoughts  above.  The  Creator  and 
Supporter  of  mankind  is  God ;  nor  will  Ho  permit  the 

*  "  Z#8-  Fair  one,  nil  goodness  that  consists  in  bounty 
Expect  even  here,  where  is  a  kingly  patient; 
If  that  thy  |ii-M-|ii.]ii'iH-:L:lilicial  feat 
Can  draw  him  but  to  answer  thee  in  aught, 
Thy  sacred  physio  shall  receive  such  pay 
Aa  thy  desires  can  wish."  Shakespeare,  PericUt. 

+  In  a  rare  Latin  copy  of  this  story,  en  titled  "Narratio  eorum 

Si.-e    con  tiger  u  »1  Aj'iollutiiii  Tyrio.      lis  Meriibmnis    vetustis.     Anno 
.D.XCV."  the  rending  of  these  versed  (else  Lenity  distinguishable) 
is  as  follows: 

k"Per  sordes  gradior,  schI  surdiiun  c^i-'.ia  non  sum. 
Sic  rosa  do  soitds  ncscit  viularier  ullis. 
Corripit  et  raptor  j_rLn  ■  I  i  i  I'erieiitis  ab  ictu  : 
Traditn.  Lenoni  non  sum  vinlnta  pudore. 
Vulnern  oessassent  auiini.  Itirryiiueqiie  deessent, 
Nulla  etenini  ine.lior.  si  iwsseiu  r-i-rtu  parenlcs, 
Unica  regalis  geiu.-ri-  >ilhl  slirpe  areata: 
Ipsa jubente  i1<:p  lii'lidi  etvdr.  aliquaudo. 
Figo  modn  lacrymus,  cumin  dissolve  raolestam, 
Redde  polo  fnchnt.  lyji.ntvnupn!  ad  sydera  tolle. 
Nam  decs  it  li.-iiniuiiui  |. In- tun  tor,  rector  et  cuetor, 
Non  sinet  bsia  lacrymas  casso  tinire.  lubore." 
I  have  collated  this  enpy  with  the  test  from  which  the  translation 
is  made,  but  the  jnnlrriid  variations  tin-  iiteousidenihle.     The  Latin, 
however,  is  very  much  better. 


■ 


29*  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

tears  of  TTi*  virtuous  servants  to  be  shed  in  vain."  A»  ste 
concluded.  ApoUonius  fixed  hia  eyes  upon  the  girl,  and 
grouted  deeply.  "  Wretched  man  that  I  am,"  said  he, 
'"  how  long  shall  I  struggle  with  my  sorrows  ?  But  I  am 
grateful  for  your  attentions ;  and  if  again  permitted  to  re- 
joice in  the  zenith  of  my  power,  your  memory  will  support 
me.  You  say  you  are  royally  descended  ? — who  are  your 
parents?  But  begone;  here  are  a  hundred  gold  pieces: 
take  them,  and  speak  to  me  no  more.  I  am  consumed  willi 
new  afflictions."  The  girl  received  his  donation,  awl 
would  have  left  the  ship ;  but  Athanagoras  stopped  h«. 
•  Whither  are  you  going?"  said  he;  "you  have  as  yet 
done  no  good  :  is  your  heart  so  pitiless  that  you  can  suffer 
a  man  to  destroy  himself,  without  striving  to  prevent  it? 
"I  have  done  everything  that  I  could,"  answered  Tharsia: 
"  he  gave  me  a  hundred  gold  pieces,  and  desired  me  to 
depart." 

"  I  will  give  you  two  hundred  pieces  if  you  will  return 
the  money  to  him,  and  say,  '  My  lord,  I  seek  your  safety, 

Tharsia  complied,  and  seating  herself  near  to  the  kinR. 
said.  "If  you  are  determined  to  continue  in  (he  sqtieli'l 
state  to  which  you  have  accustomed  yourself,  give  iue_ 
leave  to  reason  with  you.  I  will  propose  a  qncstion:  i' 
you  can  answer  it,  I  will  depart ;  if  not,  I  will  return  JOW 
present  »nd  go." 

"Keep  what  I  have  given;  I  will  not  deny  your 
request.  For  though  my  evils  admit  of  no  cure,  yet  1 
determine  to  hearken  to  you.  Put  your  question,  then, 
and  depart." 

"  Hear  me ;  there  is  a  house  in  a  certain  part  of  W 
world  which  bounds  and  rebounds,  but  it  is  dosed  •p"-* 
mankind.  ThiB  house  loudly  echoes,  but  its  inhibit»11' 
is  ever  silent;  and  both — the  house  and  inhabitant— wove 
forward  together."  Now,  if  you  are  a  king,  as  yon  ilVlL 
you  should  l>e  wiser  than  I  am.     Resolve  the  riddle." 


"  Est  domus  in  tcrris  ']iia>  nobis  rltiuaa  results! 
Ipsa  dooms  resonat,  tncitua  Bed  nnn  snnnt  liospes: 
Ambo  tumen  curruut,  Lo.-pi-s  diiuil  tt  donius  ubii." 


OF   TEMPORAL  TRIBULATION.  503 

"  To  prove  to  you  that  I  am  no  impostor,"  said 
Apolloniue,  "  I  will  reply.  The  house  which  hounds  and 
rebounds  and  echoes  is  the  wave ;  the  mute  inhabitant  is 
a.  fish,  which  glides  along  with  its  residence."  *  Tharsia 
continued,  "  I  am  borne  rapidly  along  by  the  tall  daughter 
of  the  grove,  which,  equally  em  loses  an  innumerable  com- 
pany. I  glide  over  various  paths,  and  leave  no  footstep."  f 
"When  I  have  answered  your  questions,"  said  Apollonius. 
"I  will  show  you  much  that  you  know  not.  Vet  I  am 
astonished  that  one  so  young  should  be  endowed  with  wit 
so  keen  and  penetrating.  The  tree  enclosing  a  host,  and 
passing  through  various  ways  without  a  trace,  is  a  ship." 

"A  person  passes  through  circumferences  and  temples 
without  injury.  There  is  a  great  heat  in  the  centre  which 
no  one  removes.  The  house  is  not  uncovered,  but  it  suits 
a  naked  inhabitant.  If  you  would  allay  pain,  you  must 
enter  into  fire." 

"I  would  enter,  then,  into  a  bath,  where  fire  is  intro- 
duced by  means  of  round  tables.^  The  covered  house 
suits  a  naked  inhabitant)  and  he  who  is  naked  in  this 
situation  will  perspire."  § 

When  she  had  said  these  and  similar  things,  the  girl 
threw  herself  before  Apollonius,  and  drawing  aside  his 

•  This  ingenious  apologue,  with  the  following,  ia  omitted  in  thu 
drama  of  Shakapeare. 

t  "Longa  feror  veloi  formosie  (ilia  ailvie, 

Inmimerfi  pn.rit.i--j-  em  ni  tnni  ~tiimnte  eaterva  ; 

Curro  per  via*  umlfus,  vi^ti-iu  nulla  reliquo." 

J  "Intrarem  balneum  ijl'i  liiin-iinl..-  Ihiiniiiu-  )ni  Uthuias  aurgimt." 

§  There  is  an  obscurity  here  which  I  tun  afraid  I  have  not  removed. 

-Per  ivitiin  i-t  :i  ik:.-  i;uin\iin  iili-  j«.Ti  kuimI  :   1\h  c.-n  I .  .j-  in  nieiliu  iiiu^uiij 

5 item  nemo  reniovit.    Noti  tsl  iiuihi  ilniinis  :  nude.-,  svil  eouveuit  hoppt;. 
1  Inctum  ponercs  innoctiua  ituniris  in  i-riii;*."     This  mysterious  ail'.or 
ia  thus  enunciated  in  the  Latin  "  Narrniio"  &<:. : — 
"Per  tutu»  win  iniioxiii!"  inirail  igtw. 
Est  calor  in  medio  iilii^uii-.  ijii-.  uj  nettio  removit; 
Non  eat  nudtt  dnmus,  nudus  setl  com-mit  boapea, 
Si  luctum  penas,  insons  intrabia  in  ignea." 
To  this  Apolloniua   answers,    "Intrarem    balneum,  ubi   hincirde 
fl»tnm!0  per  tabulae  Eurgunt,  nuda  Junius  in  .jini  nihil  intua  eat,  nudus 
koapea  conveuit,  nudus  audabit." — The  reader  must  make  what  ho 
can  of  it. 


r294  GESTA   HOMAXORCM. 

hands,  embraced  him.  "  Hear,"  said  she,  "  the  voice  of 
your  supplicant :  regard  a  virgin's  prayers.  It  is  wicked 
in  men  of  so  much  wisdom  to  destroy  themselves.     If  you 


. 


lament  your  lost  wife,  the  mercy  of  (led  can  restore  her  to 
you ;  if  you:-  deceased  child,  you  may  yet  find  her.  You 
■jught  to  live  and  be  glad."  Ajmllynius,  irritated  at  the 
girl's  pertinacity,  arose  and  pushed  her  from  him  with  his 
foot.  She  fell  and  cut  her  check,  from  which  the  blood 
copiously  flowed.  Terrified  at  the  wound  she  had  received, 
she  burst  into  tears,  and  exclaimed,  "  0  thou  eternal 
Architect  of  the  heavens  !  look  upon  my  afflictions.  Born 
amid  tho  waves  and  storms  of  the  ocean,  my  mother 
perished  in  giving  life  to  her  daughter.  l)enied  rest  even 
in  the  grave,  sho  was  deposited  in  a  chest,  with  twenty 
gold  sestertia,  and  thrown  into  the  sea.  But  I,  unhappy, 
was  delivered  by  my  remaining  parent  to  Stranguilio  and 
Dionysius,  with  the  ornaments  belittiug  a  royal  extraction. 
I  was  by  them  devoted  to  death  ;  but  whilst  I  invoked  the 
assistance  of  God,  a  number  of  pirates  rushed  in  and  the 
murderer  fled.  I  was  brought  hither;  and  in  His  own 
good  time  Hod  will  restore  ino  to  my  father  Apollonius." 
(2t!)  Here  she  concluded,  and  the  royal  mourner,  struck 
with  her  relation,  shouted  with  a  loud  voice,  "  Merciful 
God !  Thou  who  lookest  over  heaven  and  earth,  and 
revealest  that  which  is  hidden,  blessed  be  Thy  holy 
name."  Saying  this,  ho  fell  into  the  arms  of  his  daughter. 
Tenderly  he  embraced  her.  and  went,  aloud  for  joy.  "My 
best  and  only  child,"  said  he ;  "  half  of  my  own  soul !  I 
shall  not  die  for  thy  loss.  I  have  found  thee,  and  I  wish 
to  live."  Exalting  his  voice  yet  more,  "Bun  hither,  my 
servants,  my  friends!  all  of  ye;  my  misery  is  at  an  end. 
I  have  found  what  I  had  lost — my  child,  my  only 
daughter!"  Hearing  his  exclamations,  the  attendants 
ran  in,  and  with  thorn  the  prince  Athanagoras.  They  dis- 
covered the  enraptured  king  weeping  upon  his  daughter's 
neck.  "  See,  see,"  said  he,  "  this  is  she  whom  1  lamented. 
Half  of  my  soul !  now  will  I  live."  Participating  in  their 
muster's  happiness,  they  all  wept. 

Apollonius  now  divested  himself  of  his  mourning 
dress,  and  attired  himself  in  regal  habiliments.  "Oh, 
my  lord,"  said  his  followers,  "  how  much  your  daughter 


OF  TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  295 

resembles  you!  "Were  there  no  other  guide,  that  would 
indicate  her  birth."*  The  delighted  girl  overwhelmed 
her  recovered  parent  with  kisses.  "  Blessed  be  God," 
cried  she,  "  who  has  been  ho  gracious  to  me,  and  given  me 
to  eeo,  and  live,  and  die  with  you."  Then,  entering  into 
a  more  detailed  account  of  her  adventures,  she  related 
what  she  had  endured  from  the  «retched  ]>imp,  and  how 
the  Almighty  had  protected  her. 

Athanagoras,  fearing  lest  another  might  demand  her 
in  marriage,  threw  himself  at  the  king's  feet,  and  modestly 
Intimating  how  instrumental  he  had  been  in  promoting  their 
happy  reunion,  besought  him  to  bestow  his  child  upon  him. 
"  I  cannot  deny  you,"  returned  Apollonius,  "  for  you  have 
alleviated  her  sorrows,  and  been  the  means  of  my  present 
and  future  happiness.  Take  her.  But  deeply  shall  that 
rascal  feel  my  vengeance."  Athanagoras  immediately 
returned  to  the  city,  and  convoked  an  assembly  of  the 
people.  "Let  not  our  city  perish,"  said  he,  addressing 
them,  "  for  the  crimes  of  one  impious  wretch.  Know  that 
King  Apollonius,  the  father  of  the  beautiful  Tharsia,  has 
arrived.  Behold  where  his  navy  rides.  He  threatens  us 
with  instant  destruction,  unless  the  scoundrel  who  would 
have  prostituted  his  daughter  be  given  up  to  him." 
Scarcely  had  he  spoken  when  the  whole  population,  men 
and  women,  hurried  off  to  implore  the  king's  clemency. 
"  I  advise  you,"  said  Athanagoras,  "  to  take  the  wretch 
with  you."  Seizing  the  execrable  man,  they  tied  his 
hands  to  his  back,  and  carried  him  along  to  the  presence 
of  ofiended  majesty.  Apollonius,  clad  in  royal  robes,  his 
hair  shorn,  and  crowned,  ascended  the  tribunal  with  his 
daughter.  The  citizens  stood  round,  in  expectation  of  his 
address.  "  Men  of  Machylena,"  said  he,  "  to-day  I  have 
recovered  my  daughter,  whom  that  villainous  pimp  would 
have  corrupted.  Neither  pity,  nor  prayers,  «or  gold 
could  prevail  with  him  to  desist  from  his  atrocious  pur- 
poses. Do  ye,  therefore,  avenge  my  daughter."  The 
people,  with  one  voice,  answered,  "  Let  him  1«  burnt 
alive,  and  his  wealth  given  to  the  lady."  Instantly  the 
wretch  was  brought  forward  and  burnt.     "  I  give   y"ou 


296  GESTA   ROMASORCH. 

your  liberty,"  said  Tharsia  to  the  overseer,  "  because,  by 
your  kindness  and  the  kindness  of  the  citizens,  I  remained 
uusullied.  I  also  present  to  yon  two  hundred  gold  sl-s- 
tertia."  Turning  to  the  other  girls,  she  added,  "  Be  free, 
and  forget  your  past  habits." 

Apollonius,  again  addressing  the  people,  returned  them 
thanks  for  their  kindness  to  him  and  his  daughter,  and 
bestowed  on  them  a  donation  of  five  hundredweight 
of  gold.  Shouts  ;ind  applause  followed;  and  they  im- 
mediately set  about  erecting  a  statue  to  their  benefactor 
in  the  midst  of  the  city.  Upon  the  base  was  the  following 
inscription : — 

TO  APOLLO8T0S,   OF  TTEE, 

THE  PRESERVER  OF  OUR  STATE  ; 

AND     TO     THE     MOST     HOLY     THAB31A, 

HIS   VIRGIN  DAUGHTER. 

A  few  days  after  the  lady  was  espoused  to  AthanagOfSf, 
amid  the  universal  joy  of  the  city. 

Intending  to  sail  with  his  daughter,  and  son-in-law,  and 
followers  to  his  own  country  by  way  of  Tharsns,  an  angel 
admonished  him  in  a  dream  to  make  for  Ephesue,"  ami 
there,  entering  the  temple  with  his  daughter  and  hr 
husband,  relate  in  a  loud  voice  all  the  varied  turns  "I 
fortune  to  which  he  had  been  subject  from  his  earliest 
youth.  Accordingly,  he  sailed  for  Ephesus.  Leaving  his 
ship,  ho  sought  out  tin.-  temple  to  which  his  long-lost  wife 
had  retired.  When  his  wife  heard  that  a  certain  kin),'  had 
come  to  the  temple  with  his  daughter,  she  arrayed  wffl"l» 
in    regal    ornaments,    and    entered   with    an    honours')!? 


"  Plilill/LEfl 


tfke 


asleep;  Diana  appearing  to  him  at 


"  Dia.  My  ( <_■  1 1 1  j ■  ] t_-  ft  urn  In  in  lljiheeus :  liie  thee  thillier 
And  do  upon  mine  altar  sacrifice. 

There,  whtii  my  maiden  priests  are  met  together, 
liufore  the  people  all, 

Reveal  how  thi-.u  nt  sen  duli-t  lisc  thv  wife: 
To  mourn  thy  i:r,^f.-,  wil.ii  thy  daughter's,  call, 
And  give  them  repetition  to  the  life. 
lVrl'm-m  my  Lidding  nr  thou  liie-t  in  woe: 
"by  my  silver  bnv 

dream.      fD/ant.  ...„,. 

Shakeai'IUSE,  J'erifl'* 


OF  TEMPORAL   TRIBULATION.  297 

escort.  The  surrounding  multitude  was  much  struck  with 
her  beauty  and  modesty,  und  Maid  there  never  was  so  lively 
a,  virgin.  Apollonins,  however,  knew  her  not;  but  such 
was  her  splendour  that  he  and  his  companions  fell  at  her 
feet,  almost  fancying  her  to  be  Diana,  the  goddess.  He 
placed  on  the  shrine  precious  gifts,  and  then,  as  the  angel 
had  ordained,  he  commenced  his  history.  "  I  was  born," 
said  he,  "  a  king.  I  am  of  Tyre,  and  my  name  is  Apol- 
lonius.  I  solved  the  riddle  of  the  impious  Antiechus,  who 
sought  to  slay  me  as  the  detector  of  his  wickedness.  I 
Bed,  and,  by  the  kindness  of  King  Altiatrates,  was  espoused 
to  his.  daughter.  On  the  death  of  Antiechus,  I  hastened 
with  my  wife  to  ascend  his  throne ;  but  she  died  on  the 
passage,  after  giving  birth,  to  this  my  daughter,  I  de- 
posited her  in  a  chest,  with  twenty  gold  sestertia,  and 
committed  her  to  the  waves.  I  placed  my  daughter  under 
the  care  of  those  whose  subsequent  conduct  was  base 
and  villainous,  and  I  departed  to  the  higher  parts  of 
Egypt.  After  fourteen  years  I  returned  to  see  my  daughter. 
They  told  me  she  was  dead ;  and  crediting  it,  I  ondured 
the  deepest  anguish  of  mind.  But  my  child  was  at  length 
restored  to  me."  (27) 

As  he  ended,  the  daughter  of  Altiatrates  sprung  towards 
him,  and  would  have  clasped  him  in  her  arms.  He  repelled 
her  with  indignation,  not  supposing  that  it  was  Ms  wife. 
"  Oh,  my  lord  !  "  cried  she,  weeping,  "  better  half  of  my 
soul!  why  do  you  use  me  thus?  I  am  thy  wife,  the 
«laughter  of  King  Altistrates  ;  and  thou  art  of  Tyre  ;  thou 
art  Apollonins,  my  husband  and  lord.  Thou  wert  the 
"beloved  one  who  instructed  me.  Thou  wert  the  ship- 
"-wrecked  man  whom  I  loved  with  pure  and  fond  regard." 
-Apollonins  awakening  at  the  mention  of  these  well-known 
circumstances,  recollected  his  hirig-lost  lady.  He  fell  upon 
tier  neck,  and  wopt  for  joy.  "  Blessed  be  the  Most  High, 
"who  hath  restored  me  my  wife  and  daughter."  "  But 
-where,"  said  she,  "  is  our  daughter  1 "  Presenting  Tharsia, 
lie  replied,  "  Behold  her."  They  kissed  each  other  tenderly  ; 
aid  the  news  of  this  happy  meeting  was  soon  noised 
»l)road  through  the  whole  city.  (28) 

Apollonins  again  embarked  for  his  own  country. 
Arriving  at  Antioch,  ho  was  crowned,  and  then  hastening 


298  GESTA   ROMANORUK. 

to  Tyre,  ho  appointed  Athanagoraa  and  his  daughter  to 
the  rule  of  this  place.  Afterwards  assembling  a  large 
array,  he  eat  down  before  Tharsus,  and  commanded  Stran- 
guilio  and  Dionyeias  to  be  seized  and  brought  before  him. 
Addressing  the  Tharsians,  he  inquired,  "  Did  I  ever  do  an 
injury  to  any  one  of  you  ? "  "  No,  my  lord,"  answered 
they ; "  we  are  ready  to  die  for  you.  ThiB  statue  bears 
record  how  you  preserved  ub  from  death."  "  Citizens," 
returned  Apollonius,  "  I  intrusted  my  daughter  to  Stran- 
guilio  and  his  wife :  they  would  not  restore  her."  "  Oh, 
ray  lord,"  criod  the  unhappy  woman,  "  thou  hast  read  her 
fate  inscribed  on  the  monument."  The  king  directed  his 
daughter  to  come  forward ;  and  Tharsia,  reproaching  her, 
said,  "  Hail,  woman !  Tharsia  greets  thee  ;  Tharsia  returned 
from  the  grave."  Dionysias  trembled;  and  the  oitizens 
wondered  and  rejoiced.  Tharsia  then  called  the  steward. 
"  ThoophihiB,  dost  thou  know  me?  Answer  distinctly, 
who  employed  thee  to  murder  me?  " 

"  My  lady  Dionysias." 

The  citizens,  hearing  this,  dragged  both  the  husband 
and  wife  out  of  tho  city  and  atoned  them.  They  would 
have  killed  Theophilus  also,  but  Tharsia,  interposing,  freed 
him  from  death.  "  UnlesB  he  had  given  me  time  to  pray," 
she  said,  "  I  should  not  now  have  been  defending  him." 

Apollonius  tarried  here  three  months,  and  gave  large 

f'fts  to  the  city.  Thence  sailing  to  Pontapolis,  the  old 
ing  Altistrates  received  them  with  delight.  He  lived  with 
his  son,  and  daughter,  and  grandchild  a  whole  year  in 
happiness.  After  that  he  died,  full  of  years,  bequeathing 
the  kingdom  to  his  son  and  daughter. 

As  Apollonius  walked  imo  day  upon  the  sea-shore,  he 
recollected  the  kind-hearted  fisherman  who  succoured  hint 
after  his  shipwreck,  and  he  ordered  him  to  be  seized  and 
brought  to  the  palace.  The  poor  fisherman,  perceiving 
himself  under  tho  escort  of  a  guard  of  soldiers,  expected 
nothing  less  than  death.  He  was  conducted  into  the 
presence  of  the  king,  who  said,  "  This  is  my  friend,  who 
helped  me  after  my  shipwreck,  and  showed  me  the  way  to 
the  city;"  and  he  gave  him  to  understand  that  he  was 
Apollonius  of  Tyre.  Ho  then  commanded  bis  attendants 
to  carry  hiw  two  hundred  sestertia,  with    men-servants 


OF   A   CELESTIAL   COUNTRY.  299 

and  maid-servants.  Nor  did  his  kindness  atop  here — he 
made  hini  one  of  Ids  personal  attendants,  and  retained  him 
as  long  as  he  lived.  Elamitus,  who  declared  to  him  the 
intentions  of  Antioehua,  fell  at  his  feet,  and  said,  "  My 
lord,  remember  thy  servant  Elamitus."  Apollonius,  ex- 
tending his  hand,  raised  him  up,  and  enriched  him.  Soon 
after  tins  a  son  was  born,  whom  he  appointed  king  in  the 
room  of  his  grandfather,  Altistrates. 

Apollonius  lived  with  his  wife  eighty-four  years;  and 
ruled  the  kingdoms  of  Antioch  and  Tyre  in  peace  and 
happiness.  He  wrote  two  volumes  of  his  adventures,  one 
of  which  he  laid  up  in  the  temple  of  tin-  Ephesians,  and 
the  other  in  his  own  library.  After  death,  he  went  into 
everlasting  life.  To  which  may  God,  of  Ilia  infinite  mercy, 
lead  us  all.  (29) 


OF   A    CELESTIAL   COUNTRY. 

Gervase*  relates  that  iu  the  city  of  Edessa,  in  consequence 
of  the  presence  of  Christ's  holy  image,  no  heretic  could 
reside — no  pagan,  no  worshipper  of  idols,  no  Jew. 
Neither  could  tin.'  barkirian*  invado  that  place  ;  but  if  an 
hostile  army  appeared,  any  innocent  child,  standing  before 
the  gates  of  the  city,  read  an  epistle ;  and  the  same  day  on 
which  tho  epistle  whs  read,  the  barbarians  were  either 
appeased,  or,  becoming  womanish,]  fled. 


My  beloved,  that  city  is  the  city  of  tho  Apocalypse, 
namely,  Heaven  :  or  it  may  signify  our  body,  in  which,  if 

*  GervnPt-  "1'  Till  hi  rv  (''cimlv  of  Kswn).  a  lnciikii-li  historian.  He 
fl,.urifl)i.-i.l  about  the  vea'r  1200. 

f  ['•  Ell'eminati."  It  eeeme  very  probable  that  ibis  legend  is  u, 
tlwtnrtcd  rrjirri(lui-t.ion  of  ,i  Jtory  in  11-  mini:,/  (i.  Ilia).  In  whicb  a  band 
nf  Scythians,  who  plundered  t.lie  tuuipli.'  <>('  Aplmniitu  Urania  at 
AmI™,  is  said  to  lime  been  rendered  subject  to  Oi \iav  voTtrtw,  i.e. 
W.ime  i»ii«h™ii,  which  to  all  nv>peitranc-  —  ciVmiiuati.  See  Lid- 
ddl  and  Suott,  sub  TOO»  ithi)  atlb  voe.  'Ei^ief,— El).] 


300  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

Christ  dwelt— that  is,  if  our  soul  be  full  of  His  lore— 
nothing  repugnant  to  Him  will  inhabit  it.  The  boy  is  a 
clear  conscience,  and  the.  epistle  is  confession  and  re- 
pentance. 


OF  THE   DISCOMFITURE    OF"  THE    DEVIL. 

There  is  in  England,  as  Gervase  tells  us,  oil  the  1 
of  the  episcopal  see  of  Ely,  a  castle  called  Cathumci;  a 
little  below  which  is  a  place  (listing-rushed  l.y  the  a[i]i'll.i- 
tion  of  Wandlesbury,*  because,  as  they  nay.  tin'  Yaiiihis, 
having  laid  waste  the  country,  and  cruelly  slaughters! 
the  Christian»,  here  pitched  their  camp.  Around  a  small 
hillock,  where  their  tents  were  pitched,  was  a  circular 
space  of  level  ground,  enclosed  by  rain  parte,  to  which  but 
one  entrance  presented  itself.  Upon  this  plain,  as  it  is 
cammonly  reported,  on  the  authority  of  remote  tradition!, 
during  the  hush  of  night,  while  the  moon  shone,  if  any 
knight  called  aloud,  "  Lot  my  adversary  appear,"  hewia 
immediately  met  by  another,  who  started  up  from  the 
opposite  quarter,  ready  armed  and  mounted  for  coinkt. 
The  encounter  invariably  ended  in  the  overthrow  of  one 
party.  Concerning  this  tradition,  I  have  an  actual  occur- 
rence to  tell,  which  was  well  known  to  many,  and  ivhii'li 
I  have  heard  both  from  the  inhabitants  of  the  place  ami 
others.f 

There  was  once  in  Great  Britain  a  knight,  whose  name 
■was  Albert,  strong  in  arms,  and  adorned  with  every  virtue- 
It  was  his  fortune  to  enter  the  above-mentioned  castle, 
where  he  was  hospitably  received.  At  night,  after  siipni. 
as  is  usual  in  great  families  during  the  winter,  the  house- 
hold assembled  round  the  hearth,  and  occupied  the  hour  in 
relating  divers  tales.J     At  last,   they  discoursed  of  the 

•  Near  Cambridge.  There  ie  no  account  of  this  place  iu  Cui''™'* 

t  This  eiordium  does  not  greatly  favour  Mr.  Douoe'e  bjpotlifcM- 
See  the  Introduction. 

1  We  have  hure  an  in«i.rt:*tir.i.«  fni'ture  "I  tin.  olden  times:  n'nl  - 
i»  mcli  plotuiw  that  give  an  invaluable  character  to  themj  nlorit* 


E  DISCOMFITURE   OF  THE  DEVIL.  301 


wonderful  occurrence  before  alluded  to;  and  our  knight, 
not  satisfied  with  the  report,  determined  to  prove  the 
truth  of  what  lie  hud  heard,  before  he  implicitly  trusted 
it.  Accompanied,  therefore,  by  a  squire  of  noble  blood, 
he  hastened  to  the  spot,  armed  in  a  coat  of  mail.  He 
ascended  the  mount,  and  then,  dismissing  his  attendant, 
entered  the  plain.  He  shouted,  and  an  antagonist, 
accoutred  at  all  points,  met  him  in  an  instant.  What 
followed?  Extending  their  shields,  find  directing  their 
lances  at  each  other,  the  steeds  were  driven  to  the  attaint, 
and  both  the  knights  shaken  by  the  career.  Their  lanoes 
brake,  but  from  the  slipperincss  of  the  armour,  the  blow 
did  not  take  effect.*  Alburt,  however,  so  resolutely  pressed 
his  adversary,  that  he  fell ;  and  rising  immediately,  beheld 
Albert  making  a  prize  of  his  horse.  On  which,  seizing  the 
broken  lance,  he  cant  it  in  the  manner  of  a  missile  weapon, 
and  cruelly  wounded  Albert  in  the  thigh,  Our  knight, 
overjoyed  at  his  victory,  either  felt  not  the  blow,  or  dis- 
Herabled  it ;  and  his  adversary  suddenly  disappeared.  He, 
therefore  led  away  the  captured  horse,  and  consigned  him 
to  the  charge  of  his  squire.  He  was  prodigiously  large, 
light  of  stop,  and  of  a  beautiful  shape.  When  Albert 
returned,  the  household  crowded  around,  him,  struck  with 
the  greatest  wonder  at  the  event,  and  rejoicing  at  the 
overthrow  of  the  hostile  knight,  while  they  lauded  the 
bravery  of  the  magnanimous  victor.  When,  however,  he 
put  off  his  cuishes,  one  of  them  was  filled  with  clotted 
blood.  The  family  wero  alarmed  at  the  appearance  of  the 
wound;  and  the  servants  were  aroused  and  despatched 
here  and  there.  Such  of  them  as  had  been  asleep,  admira- 
tion now  induced  to  watch.  As  a  testimony  of  oonquest, 
the  horse,  held  by  the  bridle,  was  exposed  to  public 
inspection.  His  eyes  were  fierce,  and  he  arched  his  naek 
proudly;  his  hair  was  of  a  lustrous  jet,  and  ho  boro  a  war- 
saddle  on  his  back.  The  cock  had  already  begun  to  crow, 
when  the  animal,  foaming,  curveting,  snorting,  and  furi- 
ously striking  the  ground  with  his  feet,  broke  the  bonds 
that  held  him  and  escaped.  He  was  immediately  pursued, 
but  disappeared  in  an  instant.  The  knight  retained  a 
perpetual  memento  of  that  .severe  wound  ;  for  every  year, 
*  '*Ietuijiic  i-vaiii/scuiii  pit  lulmcum." 


GESTA   ROMANORUW. 

upon  the  night  of  that  encounter,  it  broke  out  afresh. 
Some  time  after,  he  crossed  the  seas  and  toll,  valiantly 
fighting  against  the  pagans.  (30) 

APPLICATION. 
My  beloved,  the  knight  ia  Christ ;  his  antagonist  is  the 
devil,  who  is  armed  with  pride ;  the  caatle  is  the  world. 


OF   THE   SUBVERSION    OF   TROT. 

Ovid,  speaking  of  the  Trojan  war,  relates  that  «tea 
Helen  was  carried  off  by  Paris,  it  was  predicted  thai  tii» 
city  of  Troy  could  not  be  captured  without  the  death  "1 
Achilles.  His  mother,  hearing  this,  placed  him,  in  the 
dress  of  a  female,  amongst  the  ladies  of  the  court  of  » 
certain  king.  Ulixes.*  suspecting  the  stratagem,  kuJed 
a  ship  with  a  variety  of  wares  ;  and  besides  the  tririki :ts 
of  women,  took  with  him  a  splendid  suit  of  armour, 
Arriving  at  the  ca*tle  in  which  Achilles  dw.'lt  niiinti^  :  "■ 
girls,  he  exposed  his  goods  for  sale.  The  disguised  Wft 
delighted  with  the  warlike  implements  upon  which  lie 
gazed,  seized  a  lance,  and  gallantly  brandished  it.  The 
secret  was  thus  manifested, f  and  Ulix.es  conducted  him  to 

"  Meaniug  thereby  Ulysses. 

f  How  far  this  stratagem  would  be  successful  is  very  donWu» 
■nil  probability  is  opposed  to  it.  Habit  in  t"o  nii.-hty  to  be  com]U«(* 
in  an  instant ;  and  man,  who  is  the  creature  of  habit,  may  at  *™ 
discard  his  uature  as  the  confirmed  prejudices  of  youtb.  b>  fuel, 
they  become  his  nature,  and  Achilles,  like  Lucio,  in  "  Love's  Cure, 
delineated  by  Beaumont  and  Fletcher,  uuder  similar  oironmstwa* 
would  much  more  reasonably  be  expected  to  say : 

"Go.  fetch  my  wort.    This  ruff  was  not  well  starched, 
So  tell  the  maid ;  't  has  too  much  blue  in  it : 
And  look  you.  that  the  partridge  ami  tbe  pullen 
Have  clean  meal  and  fresh  water,  or  my  mother 
Is  like  '    ' 

sword  and  spear,  and  change  his  pcWnul  f* 


OF    THE    PUNISHMENT   OF   OFFENDERS.  3(13 

Troy.  The  Greeks  prevailed ;  find  after  his  decease,  and 
the  capture  of  the  city,  the  hostages  of  the  adverse  Bide 
were  set  at  liberty. 


My  beloved,  Paris  represents  the  devil ;  Helen,  the 
human  soul,  or  all  mankind.  Troy  is  hell.  Ulixes  is 
Christ ;  and  Achilles,  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  arms  signify 
the  cross,  keys,  lance,  crown,  etc. 


TALE  CLVII. 
OF  THE  PUNISHMENT  OF  OFFENDERS. 
There  was  an  emperor  whose  porter  was  remarkably 
sagacious.  He  earnestly  besought  his  master  that  he 
might  have  the  custody  of  a  city  for  a  single  month,  and 
receive,  by  way  of  tax,  one  penny  from  every  crook-backed, 
one-eyed,  scabby,  leprous,  or  ruptured  person.  The  empe- 
ror admitted  his  request,  and  confirmed  the  gift  under  hia 
own  seal.  Accordingly,  the  porter  was  installed  in  his 
office  ;  and  as  the  people  entered  tho  city,  he  took  note  of 
their  defects,  and  charged  them  a  penny,  in  conformity 
with  the  grant.  It  happened  that  a  hunchbacked  fellow 
one  day  entered,  and  the  porter  made  hia  demand.  Hunch- 
back protested  that  he  would  pay  nothing.  The  porter 
immediately  laid  hands  upon  him,  and  accidentally  raising 
his  cap,  discovered  that  he  was  one-eyed  also.  He  de- 
manded, two  pennies  forthwith.  The  other  still  more 
vehemently  opposed,  and  would  have  fled ;  but  the  porter 
catching  hold  of  his  head,  the  cap  came  off,  and  disclosed 
a  bald  scabby  surface.  Whereupon  he  required  three 
pennies.  Hunchback,  very  much  enraged,  persisted  in 
his  refusal,  and  began  to  struggle  with  the  determined 

*  "Gower  has  this  history  OWN  at  large  in  the  ConfessIo 
AhaNtib;  but  be  refers  to  a  Cronilte,  which  mms  to  be  the  Bore 
of  Tboie,  mentioned  at  the  end  of  tho  chapter  (lib.  v.  foi 
fol.  101)."— Warton, 


30* 


GESTA  BOMANOROr. 


porter.  This  produced  an  exposure  of  his  arms,  by 
which  it  became  manifest  that  he  was  leprous.  The  ionrth 
penny  was  therefore  laid  claim  to;  and  the  scuffle  con- 
tinuing, revealed  a  rupiure,  which  entitled  him  to  a  fifth. 
Thus,  a  fellow  unjustly  refusing  to  pay  a  rightful  demand 
of  one  penny  was  necessitated,  much  against  his  inclina- 
tion, topay^oc." 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  Christ.  The  porter  is  any 
prelate,  or  discreet  confessor ;  the  city  is  the  world.  Th« 
diseased  man  is  a  sinner. 


TALE  CLVIII. 

OF  THE  SOUL'S  IMMORTALITY. 


(tedboAj-, 


There  was  once  discovered  at  Rome  an  uncorrupted  body, 
taller  than  the  wall  of  the  city,  on  which  the  folW'i»; 
words  wore  inscribed : — "  Pallas,  the  son  of  F.v.rikr. 
whom  the  lance  of  a  crooked  soldier  slew,  is  interred  here. 
A  candle  burned  at  his  head,  which  neither  water  nor 
wind  could  extinguish,  until  air  was  admitted  through  » 
hide  made  with  the  point  of  a  needle  beneath  the  flame. 
The  wound  of  which  this  giant  had  died  was  four  feet  and 
a  half  long.  Having  been  killed  after  the  overthrow^ 
Troy,  he  had  remained  in  his  tomb  two  thousand  two 
hundred  and  forty  yeara. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  giant  is  Adam,  who  was  formed  free 
from  all  corruption.  The  wound  of  which  he  died  is 
transgression  of  the  divine  command.  The  burning  casnli1-' 
is  eternal  punishment,  extinguished  by  means  of  a  nMd'u 
— that  is,  by  the  passion  of  Christ. 


*  This   lole   i 


Rot,  50. 


Alplionaun,  trad   the   Cento 


OF    THE    INVENTION    OF   VINEYARDS. 


OF  THE  INVENTION  OF  VINETAEDS. 

Josephus,  in  his  work  on  "  The  Causes  of  Natural  Things," 
says  that  Noah  discovered  the  wild  vine,"  and  because  it 
was  bitter,  he  took  the  blood  of  four  animals,  namely,  of  a 
lion,  of  a  lamb,  a  nig,  and  a  monkey.  This  mixture  bo 
united  with  earth,  and  made  a  kind  of  manure,  which  he 
deposited  at  the  rootB  of  the  trees. f  Thus  the  blood 
sweetened  the  fruit,  with  which  he  afterwards  intoxicated 
himself,  and,  lying  naked.  w:ik  derided  by  his  younger  son. 
Assembling  his  children,  he  declared  to  them  by  what 
means  he  had  produced  this  effect.J 

APPLICATION. 

My   beloved,   the   vine    manured   with   the   blood   of 
animals  indicates  its  effects.     The  blood  of  the  lion  pro- 


Th«l 


[    suppose,   ■ 


d  fancy  that  Webster,  la    his 
While  DecS,  observes, 

"As  in  cold  countries  hwsbandnitn  plant  trine». 
And  with  icnria  b/wri  manure  them,  even  so,"  Ac. 
X  "  I  know  not  of  any  bonk  of  Josephus  on  this  subject.  The  first 
editor  of  Iho  Latin  Josephus  was  Lndovtooi  Ocadnia,  of  Verona,  who 
wns  ignorant  that  he  was  publishing  a  modern  translation." — "  The 
substance  of  thii-  elKiptrr  is  iV.'iinlv'l  '■!.  it  rubirmiciil  tradition  related 
by  Fabricius.1  When  Noah  planted  the  vino,  Satan  attended,  and 
sacrificed  a  sheep,  a  iion,  an  ape.  ami  a  sow.  These  animals  were  to 
symbolize  the  gradations  of  ebi  iety.  When  a  man  begins  to  drink,  ha 
is  meek  and  ignorant  ns  the  lamb,  tlieu  becomes  bold  as  the  lion  :  his 
courage  is  soon  truiiHl-riod  inn  the  foolishness  of  the  ape,  and  at  last 
he  wallows  in  the  mire  like  it  nt,  Chauoei  hence  says,  in  the 
Manciples  Prologue,  as  the  passage  is  justly  corrected  by  Mr. 
Tyrwhitt— 

'  I  trowe  that  ye  liavo  dronkcu  urine  of  ape. 
And  that  is  when  men  plaieu  nt  a  strawe." 
In  the  old  Kil.nNnaiEa  den  BEnr.Eas,  as  Jlr.  Tyrwhitt  has  remarked, 
I'ih  de   finflc,  rin   de  moiilon,   riit  de   lyan,  and  fin  de  porceuu,  are 
mentioned    in    their  rrsjuTtivt;  njit rut  ions  en  the  four  temperaments 
of  the  kuuma  body." — W  a  kick. 


'  Loo.  Pm 


i.  V<t.  Tn- 


riESTA   ROMANORUM. 


duces  anger  ;  that  of  the  lamb,  ahame  ;  of  the  pig,  filttu- 
ness  ;  of  the  monkey,  idle  curiosity  and  foolish  joy. 


OF  THE  SEDUCTIONS  OK  THE  DEVIL. 


nlves  into 
tIr  what- 


It  often  happens  that  the  devils  transform  themselves  in 
angels  of  light,  in  order  to  foster  in  human  hearts  what- 
ever is  fiendish.  In  proof  of  which,  a  most  remarkable 
instance  is  subjoined. 

When  Valentine  filled  the  episcopal  see  of  Aries.* 
there  stood  on  the  outskirts  of  the  diocese  a  castle,  the 
lady  of  which  invariably  quitted  church  before  the  cele- 
bration of  mass,  for  she  could  not  bear  to  look  on  the  con- 
secration of  our  Lord's  body.  This  peculiarity  gave  her 
husband  much  uneasiness,  and  he  determined  to  ascertain 
the  reason  of  so  singular  a  proceeding.  On  a  certain  day. 
the  gospel  being  ended,  she  was  about  to  retire,  when, 
after  much  violent  struggling,  she  was  forcibly  detain"! 
by  her  husband  and  his  attendants.  The  priest  then  con- 
tinued the  service,  and  at  the  instant  that  he  proceeded  to 
consecration,  the  lady,  borne  along  by  a  diabolical  spirit, 
flew  away,  carrying  along  with  her  a  portion  of  the  chapel, 
and  was  seen  no  more  in  those  regions;  and  part  of  'he 
very  tower  is  yet  standing,  in  testimony  of  the  truth  of 
the  above  relation. |  (31) 

APPLICATION 

My  beloved,  the  castle  is  the  world ;  and  the  lord  of  it 
a  discreet  confessor. 

*  A  town  in  Prance. 

t  [This  ia  us  good  a  proof  of  veracity  u  that  offweJ  by  Si 

weaver  for  the  validity  of  Jack  Cade's  claims  to  be  the  grandsmol 
Edmund  Mortimer.     Cade  having  asserted  that  his  father  was  ata'len 

by  a  beggar-woi i   hIil-ii  yimui;.   and   brought  up   as  a  bridd»}""' 

ignorant  of  in*  noble  birth.  Smith  adds:  "Sir,  he  made  a  china"'! 
in  an  f;itiii-r'jj  house,  and  the  firi'.-'V.-  w  nlire  at  thit  day  to  itttij'yi1 
therefore,  deny  it  not"  (Jjeeond  Part  of  /lenry  VL,  Act  iv.  So  fy- 


Of  OBAT1TUDE  TO  GOD.  307 

TALE  CLXL 

OF  GRATITUDE  TO  GOD. 


If  the  kingdom  of  England  there  is  a  hillock  m  the 
*i<int  of  a  thick  wood,  about  the  height  of  a  man.  Thither 
*iiighte  and  other  followers  of  the  chase  were  accustomed 
to  ascend,  when  they  Buffered  much  from  heat  and  thirst, 
and  sought  eagerly  for  relief.  From  the  nature  of  tiro 
place,  and  the  circumstances  of  their  occupation,  each  as- 
cended the  hill  alone ;  and  each,  as  if  addressing  some 
other,  would  say,  "  I  thirst."  Immediately,  beyond  ex- 
pectation, there  started  from  the  side  one  with  a  cheerful 
countenance  and  an  outstretched  hand,  bearing  a  largo 
horn  ornamented  with  gold  and  precious  stones,  such  an 
we  are  still  in  the  habit  of  using  instead  of  a  cup,  and  full 
of  the  most  exquisite,  but  unknown,  leverage.  Thia  he 
presented  to  the  thirsty  person;  and  no  sooner  had  he 
drank,  than  the  heat  and  lassitude  abated.  One  would 
not  then  have  thought  that  he  had  been  engaged  in  labour, 
but  that  he  was  desirous  of  commencing  an  arduous  em- 
ployment. After  the  liquor  had  been  taken,  the  attendant 
presented  a  clean  napkin  to  wipe  the  mouth.  His  ministry 
completed,  he  disappeared,  without  awaiting  recompense, 
or  permitting  inquiry.  He  did  this  daily,  and,  aged  as  he 
seemed  to  be,  his  pace  was  singularly  rapid.  At  last,  a 
certain  knight  went  to  these  parts  for  the  purpose  of 
hunting ;  and  a  draught  being  demanded,  and  the  horn 
brought,  instead  of  restoring  it  to  the  industrious  skinker  * 
as  custom  and  urbanity  required,  he  retained  it  for  his  own 
use.  But  the  knight's  feudal  lord,  ascertaining  the  truth  of 
thia  matter,  condemned  the  plunderer ;  and  presented  the 
horn  to  Henry  the  Elder.!  king  of  England,  lest  he  himself 
should  be  held  a  partaker  in  the  crime.J 

"  [See  Shakespeare,  Firrt  Part  of  Henry  IV.,  Act  ii.  Se.  i.— En] 

t  Henry  I.  according  to  Warton. 

I  "  This  story,  which  seems  imperfect,  I  suppose,  is  from  Gervasc 
of  Tilbury."— Warton. 

"The  drinkiug  vessels  of  the  northern  nations  were  the  iioBN»  of 
«niinals.  of  their  natural  length,  only  tipt  with  silver.  Ac.  In  York 
Winster  is  preserved  one  of  thvsi  uncii-iit  -lriuk irju'-vi-ntils.  composed 
ot  a  Itirsir  .■li-|i!i.ii:I's  tmitli.  i 'f  it*  nun: ml  diniriisinixi,  ornamented  with 
•Kulpture,  iu.     See  Drake's  flirt,"— Bishop  Feecy. 

L^»-V«*»-  TXii   tMt    ^A  "tk*.  ,L.^djJC   «\j  *i^-T)_j}t  ^  ■>■  o,   "-"^  { 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


APPLICATION. 


My  beloved,  the  mountain  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven; 
the  forest  is  the  world.  The  hunter  is  any  worldly-minded 
man.  The  thirst  and  heat  are  divine  love ;  the  horn, 
mercy,  which  is  tilled  at  the  fountain  of  benevolence.  He 
who  bore  it  is  Christ ;  ami  the  napkin  ia  confession. 


TALE  CLXII. 

OF   AVOIDING    IMPRECATIONS 

G  ervase  of  Tilbury  *  relates  to  Otto.f  the  Roman  emperor, 
a  very  remarkable  occurrence,  but  at  the  same  time  full  of 
excellent  advice,  and  affording  a  reason  for  caution  to  the 

There  was  in  the  bishopric  of  Girona,  in  Catalonia,  a 
very  high  mountain,  whi>se  ti scent  was  extremely  arduous, 
and,  except  in  one  place,  inaccessible.  On  the  summit 
was  an  unfathomable  lake  of  black  water.  Here  alto 
stood,  as  it  is  reported,  a  palace  of  demons,  with  a  largo 
gate  continually  closed;  but  the  palace  itself,  as  well 
as  its  inhabitants,  existed  in  invisibility.  If  any  one 
cast  a  stone  or  other  hard  substance  into  this  lake,  the 
■lemons  exhibited  their  anger  by  furious  storms.  In  one 
part  of  the  mountain  was  perpetual  snow  and  ice;  here  there 
was  abundance  of  crystal,  and  the  sun  never  was  seen.  At 
its  foot  flowed  a  river,  whose  sands  were  of  gold  ;  and  the 
precious  metal  thus  obtained  was  denominated  by  uie 
vulgar  its  cloak.  The  mountain  itself,  and  the  parU 
adjacent,  furnished  silver  ;  and  its  nnexhanstible  fertility 
was  not  the  least  surprising  of  its  peculiarities. 

*  "  Whenever  our  compiler  quotes  GervaSB  of  Tilbury  the  relewf 
is  to  his  Otia  Ihferiama:  whirl»  ia  addressed  to  tko  Emperor  (III»1 
the  Fourth,  and  I'ont.'iiiift  his  l.'<i>uini-iiliiriu<>  tlr  regain  Imptratim'1 
Ji\,iiicn<ir»iit.  Ijii"  Sfuiuli  Jlefi:ripiin.  unil  his  Trai-tatu/  ./<•  .IJV^^ll.■^W'," 
Mtuidi.  All  thfft-  1'iinr  havt  iinu  improperly  supposed  to  be  sepifa" 
workfl."— Wa  rtos. 


OF   AVOIDING    IMPHECATIONS.  30!) 

Not  far  From  hence  live  J  u  certain  farmer,  who  one  daj 
being  much  occupied  with  domestic  matters,  and  troubled 
exceedingly  hy  the  incessant  squalling  of  his  little  girl, 
at  length,  after  the  maimer  of  people  when  angry,  wished 
his  infant  at  the  devil.  This  incautious  desire  was 
scarcely  uttered,  ere  the  girl  was  sei/.ed  by  an  invisible 
hand,  and  carried  off.  Seven  years  afterwards,  a  person 
journeying  at  the  foot  of  tho  mountain  near  the  farmer's 
dwelling,  distinguished  a  man  hurrying  along  at  a  pro- 
digious rate,  and  uttering  in  the  most  doleful  tones, 
"  Alas!  forme,  wretched  man !  what  shall  I  do  to  get  rid  of 
this  huge  load?"  The  traveller  stopped  to  inquire  the 
occasion ;  and  was  told  that,  for  the  space  of  seven  years 
last  past,  he  had  been  committed  to  the  custody  of  the 
demons  upon  that  mountain,  who  daily  made  use  of  him  as 
a  chariot,  in  consequence  of  an  unwary  exclamation  to 
that  effect.  The  traveller,  startled  at  an  assertion  so  ex- 
traordinary, and  a  little  incredulous,  was  informed  that  his 
neighbour  had  suffered  in  a  similar  degree  ;  for  that,  having 
hastily  committed  his  daughter  to  their  power,  they  had 
instantly  borne  her  off.  He  added  that  the  demons,  weary 
of  instructing  the  girl,  would  willingly  restore  her,  pro- 
Tided  the  father  presented  himself  on  the  mountain  and 
there  received  her. 

The  auditor,  thunder-struck  at  this  communication, 
doubted  whether  he  should  conceal  things  so  incredible,  or 
relate  what  he  had  heard.  He  determined,  at  last,  to 
declare  the  girl's  situation  to  hor  father;  and  hastening, 
accordingly,  found  him  still  bewailing  the  lengthened 
absence  of  his  daughter.  Ascertaining  the  cause,  ho  went 
on  to  state  what  he  had  heard  from  the  man  whom  the 
devils  used  as  a  chariot:  "Therefore,"  said  he, "  I  recommend 
you,  attesting  tho  Divine  name,  to  demand  of  these  devils 
the  restitution  cf  your  daughter."  Amazed  at  what  was 
imparted  to  him,  the  father  di-liherated  upon  the  best 
method  of  proceeding  and  finally  pursued  the  counsel  of 
the  traveller,  Ascending  the  mountain,  he  passed  forward 
to  the  lake,  and  adjured  the  demons  to  restore  the  girl 
whom  his  folly  had  committed  to  them.  Suddenly  a 
violent  blast  swept  by  him,  and  a  girl  of  lofty  stature- 
stood  in  his  presence.     Her  eyes  were  wild  &»&.  •wimAnx- 


GESTA  KOMANOnUM. 

ing,  and  her  bones  and  sinews  were  scarcely  covered  with 
«kin.  Her  horrible  countenance  discovered  no  ii<rn  nf 
sensibility;  and,  ignorant  of  nil  language,  she  scsrwly 
could  be  acknowledged  for  a  human  being.  The  father, 
wondering  at  her  strange  apjiearan.ce,  and  doubtful 
whether  she  should  lie  taken  to  his  own  home  or  not 
posted  to  the  bishop  of  (iiroua,  and,  with  a  sorrowful 
aspect,  detailed  what  hail  befallen  him ;  at  the  same  time 
requesting  his  advice.  The  bishop,  as  a  religious  man, 
and  one  intrusted  with  a  charge  of  bo  much  importune-, 
(unrated  every  circumstance  respecting  the  girl  to  his  dis- 
ease. He  warned  them  against  rashly  committing  their 
fortunes  to  the  power  of  demons,  and  showed  that  our 
adversary  the  devil,  as  a  raging  lion,  goeth  about  seeking 
whom  he  may  devour ;  that  he  will  slay  those  who  «ru 
given  to  him,  and  hold  them  in  eternal  bonds,  and  torment 
and  afflict  those  devoted  to  him  for  a  time. 

The  man  who  was  used  by  the  devils  as  a  charM, 
remained  a  long  time  in  this  miserable  situation ;  hut  his 
subsequent  faith  and  discretion  emancipated  hiia.  He 
stated  that  near  the  above-mentioned  plaoe  there  waBM 
extensive  subterranean  palace,  whoso  entrance  washy» 
single  gate,  enveloped  in  the  thickest  darkness.  Through 
this  portal  the  devils,  who  had  been  on  embassies  to 
various  parts  of  the  world,  returned,  and  com  muni  in  led 
to  their  follows  what  they  had  done.  No  one  could  tell  i>f 
what  the  palace  was  constructed,  save  themselves,  and 
those  who  passed  under  their  yoke  to  eternal  damnation. 
From  all  which,  my  beloved,  wo  may  gather  the  danger» 
we  are  exposed  to,  and  how  cautious  we  should  ho  «' 
invoking  the  devil  to  our  assistance,  as  well  as  of  com- 
mitting  our  family  to  his  power.  Let  us  guard  our  hesrti, 
and  beware  that  he  catch  not  up  the  sinful  soul,  mi 
plunge  it  into  the  lake  of  everlasting  misery ;  where  there 
is  snow  and  ice  untbawed — crystal,  that  reflects  the 
awakened  and  agonized  conscience,  perpetually  b 
with  immortal  Are. 


*. 


petuatiy  Human 


OF    EXTREME    FEAR. 


TALE    CLXIIt 

OF   EXTREME  FEAR, 

:ani)er  had  an  only  son,  called  Celestinus,  whom  he 
1  with  the  utmost  tenderness.  He  desired  to  have 
faim  well  instructed,  and  sending  for  a  certain  philosopher, 
said,  "  Sir,  instruct  my  eon,  and  I  will  bountifully 
remunerate  yon."  The  philosopher  acquiesced,  and  took 
the  hoy  home  with  him.  He  diligently  performed  his 
duty;  and  it  happened  that  one  day,  entering  a  meadow 
with  his  pupil,  they  perceived  a  horse  lying  on  the 
ground,  grievously  affected  with  the  mange.  Near  the 
animal  two  sheep  were  tied  together,  which  busily  cropped 
the  grass  that  grew  in  abundance  around  them.  It  so 
chanced  that  the  sheep  were  on  each  side  of  the  horee,  and 
the  cord  with  which  they  were  bound  passed  over  his 
back  and,  chafing  the  sores,  galled  him  exceedingly. 
Disturbed  by  this  circumstance,  he  got  up ;  but  the  cord, 
then  loaded  with  the  weight  of  the  sheep,  afflicted  him 
more  and  more ;  and,  filled  with  fury,  he  began  to  run  off 
at  a  great  speed,  dragging  along  the  unfortunate  sheep. 
And  in  equal  proportion  to  their  resistance  was  the  aug- 
mentation of  the  horse's  suffering.  For  the  cord,  having 
worn  itself  into  a  hollow,  sunk,  at  every  struggle,  yet 
deeper  into  the  wound. 

Adjoining  the  meadow  was  the  house  of  a  miller, 
toward  which  the  horse,  impelled  by  the  anguish  of  his 
wound,  galloped,  and  entered,  with  the  sheep  hanging 
as  we  have  said.  The  house  was  then  unoccupied ;  but 
there  was  a  fire  burning  upon  the  hearth,  and  the  quadru- 
ped, plunging  and  striking  with  his  hoofs,  so  scattered  the 
fire  that  the  flame  caught  hold  of  the  building,  and  reduced 
it  to  ashes,  together  with  the  horse  and  the  sheep.  "Young 
man,"  said  the  preceptor  to  his  pupil,  "you  have  perceived 
the  beginning,  the  middle,  and  the  completion  of  this 
incident :  make  me  some  correct  verses  upon  it,  and  show 
me  who  is  responsible  for  the  burning  of  the  house. 
Unless  you  do  this,  I  assure  you  I  will  punish  you 
severely."  Celestinus,  during  the  absence  of  his  master, 
applied  himself  diligently  to  study,  but  he  was   unable 


312  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

to  execute  his  task.  This  much  troubled  him ;  and  the 
devil  met  him  in  the  likeness  of  a  man,  and  said,  "ill; 
son,  what  has  made  you  so  sorrowful?" 

Celest.  Never  mind ;  it  is  no  use  telling  you. 

Demi.  Yon  know  not  that ;  tell  me,  and  I  will  help  yon. 

Celest.  I  am  charged,  under  a  heavy  punish  myiil,  tn 
make  some  verses  about  a  scabby  horse  and  two  sheep, 
and  I  don't  know  how. 

Devil.  Young  man,  I  am  the  devil  in  a  human  firm, 
anil  the  best  poet  that  ever  lived:  care  nothing  abmtt  yuiir 
master,  but  promise  to  serve  me  faithfully,  and  1  will 
compose  such  delectable  verses  for  you  that  they  shall 
excel  those  of  your  pedagogue  himself. 

Celestinus  gave  his  word  to  serve  him  faithfully  if  :|1' 
fulfilled  his  engagement.  The  devil  then  produced  ths 
following  verses : — 

Bound  by  a  thing,  that  passed  along 

A  horse's  mangy  hide, 
Two  shut])  thiTi-  lay.  a*  1  you  Bay,* 

One  upon  either  side. 
The  stored  uprose,  and  upward  goes 

Each  sheep  with  dangling  breech; 
Borne  !iy  Hi,-  Ilhihi-'h  rapid  course, 

The  miller's  hut  they  reach. 
Scattering  tin-  tiro  "itli  ii.rklesa  ire. 

The  rafters  caught  the  Ilame  ; 
Aad  bleating  l,i>-nl  and  si-nhby  steed 

Were  roasted  in  the  same. 
Now  had  that  wight,  that  miller  h i -rl 1 1, 

Vouchsafed  his  house  to  keep: 
Ere  he  return, ■,!  il  li.nl  suit  burned. 

Nor  hunu  (1  lijs  lior-u  and  sheep.f 

*  i.e.  As  1  tell  you  ;  or,  tay  to  you. 

"He  said,  '  Upturn.  Imve  good  day  I 

Sekerly,  a»  I  you  toy.'  "-  -  Homaim:  of  Sit  /iW'W1 

t  As  these  are  probably  the  onlv  verses  on  record  of  the  devil's 

composition  (at  least,  bo  well  authenticated).  I  cauaot  do  hss  ttian 

transcribe  them  for  tin'  iditii ■utimi  of  the  curious: — 

"Nexus  Dvem  biiiam,  per  suinara  traxit  equinnm; 
Ijbbiib  sur^it  fquiiJ.  pciidet  utrumque  pecus. 
Ad  mnlendluum,  pondui  portabat  equiaum, 
Dispergendn  focum,  se  cremat  utque  lncum. 
Custodea  abcrant  singula  damua  ferant" 


OF   THE   PERVERSITY   OF  THE   WORLD.  313 

The  boy,  made  happy  by  the  present,  returned  home. 

Mailer.  My  child,  have  you  stolen  your  verses,  or 
made  them  ? 

Celeet.  I  made  them,  sir. 

He  then  read  what  we  have  given  above;  and  the 
master,  struck  with  the  greatest  astonishment  at  their 
uncommon  beauty,  exclaimed,  "My  dear  boy,  tell  me  if 
any  one  made  these  tui-ucs  for  you?" 

Celeet.  No,  sir  ;  no  tine  did. 

Matter.  Unless  you  tell  me  the  truth,  I  will  flog  you 
till  the  blood  nm. 

The  lad,  fearful  of  what  might  follow,  declared  all  that 
had  occurred,  and  how  he  had  bound  himself  to  the  devil. 
The  preceptor,  grieved  at  the  communication,  induced  the 
youth  to  confess  himself  and  renounce  this  fearful  con- 
federacy. When  this  was  dono  he  became  a  holy  man, 
»nd,  after  a  well-spent  life,  gave  up  his  soul  to  God. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  the  philosopher,  any 
prelate ;  the  mangy  horse,  a  sinner  covered  with  sins. 
The  two  sheep  are  two  preachers  bound  by  the  cord  of 
charity ;    the  miller's  house  is  the  world ;  and  the  fire. 


TALE  CLXIV. 

OF  THE  PERVERSITY  OF  THE  WORLD. 

We  read  in  a  certain  book  of  a  conversation  between  Jesus 
Christ  and  St.  Peter.  "  I  saw,"  said  the  latter,  "  five  men 
whom  I  thought  madmen.  The  first  ate  the  sand  of  the 
sea  so  greedily,  that  it.  slipped  through  his  jaws  on  either 
side  of  the  mouth.  Another  I  observed  standing  upon 
a  pit  full  of  sulphur  and  pitch,  of  which  the  smell  was 
intolerable ;  yet  he  strove  earnestly  to  inhale  it.  The 
third  lay  upon  a  burning  furnace,  whose  heat  was  not 
enough  ;  ho  endeavoured  to  catch  the  sparks  emitted  from 
the  furnace  that  he  might  eat  them.     A  fourth  sat  upoc 


314  GESTA    ROMANORFM. 

a  pinnacle  of  the  temple,  in  order  to  catch  the  win^. 
For  this  purpose  he  held  his  mouth  open.  The  fift/j 
devoured  whatsoever  of  his  own  members  he  could  get 
into  his  mouth,  and  laughed  incessantly  at  every  other 
man.  Many  beheld  these  five  men,  and  much  wondered 
why  they  did  these  things." 


My  beloved,  the  first  of  these  men  represents  the 
covetous;  the  second,  the  gluttonous  and  luxurious;  the 
third,  the  rich  and  honourable  ;  the  fourth,  the  hypocrites 
and  the  fifth  are  the  calumniators  of  the  good. 


TALE  CLXV. 


OF   THE   SAME   SUBJECT. 

We  read  in  the  Lives  of  the  Fathers,  that  an  angel  showed 
to  a  certain  holy  man  throe  men  labouring  under  a  triple 
fatuity  The  first  made  a  faggot  of  wood,  and  because  it  wm 
too  heavy  for  him  to  carry  he  added  to  it  more  wood,  toping 
by  such  means  to  make  it  light.  The  second  drew  water 
with  great  labour  from  a  very  deep  well  with  a  sieve,  wbicb 
he  incessantly  filled.  The  third  carried  a  beam  in  his 
chariot ;  and  wishing  to  enter  his  house,  whereof  the 
gate  was  so  narrow  and  low  that  it  would  not  admit  him, 
he  violently  whipped  his  horse,  until  they  both  fell  together 
into  a  deep  well.  Having  shown  this  to  the  holy  ffl»^ 
the  angel  said,  "  What  think  you  of  these  three  men? 
"  That  they  are  three  fools,"  answered  he.  "  UndereM"* 
however,"  returned  the  angel,  "  that  they  represent  the 
sinners  of  this  world.  The  first  describes  that  kind  o» 
men  who,  from  day  to  day,  add  new  sins  to  the  old,  bet»"» 
they  cannot  bear  the  weight  of  those  which  they  alresty 
have.  The  second  man  represents  those  who  do  good,  but 
do  it  sinfully,  and  therefore  it  is  of  no  benefit.  And  the 
third  person  is  he  who  would  enter  the  kingdom  of  hea'*" 
with  all  his  worldly  vanities,  but  is  cast  down  into  hell 


OF  THE  GAME  OF  SCHACI.  6lO 

TALE  CLXVI. 

OF  THE   GAME   OF   SCHACI.  (32) 

Scracariuji  *  has  sixty-four  points,  divided  by  eight,  as 
husband  and  wife.  Iiridfjrrmim  and  bride,  clergy  and  lay, 
rich  and  poor.  Six  men  are  used  at  this  game.  The  first 
is  HocHus,t  and  it  is  of  two  kinds,  white  and  black.  The 
white  is  placed  on  the  right  hand,  and  the  black  upon  the 
left.  The  reason  cf  which  is,  that  when  ail  the  Schaci  are 
fixed  in  their  places,  the  noble,  as  well  as  the  vulgar  pieces, 
have  certain  goals  towards  which  they  must  proceed.  The 
Eochi  alone,  when  they  are  enclosed,  have  no  power  of 
proceeding,  unless  a  way  shall  1*  cleared  for  them  either 
by  the  higher  or  lower  men.  The  Kochus  moves  directly 
across,  and  never  to  the  corners,  whether  in  going  or 
returning ;  and  if  he  move  laterally  from  the  other  side, 
and  take  some  piece,  he  lieeomes  a  thief. 

The  second  piece  is  Alfhinus,!  which  passes  over  three 
points.  For  in  its  proper  place,  that  which  is  black  is 
fixed  to  the  right  of  the  king,  with  the  white  on  his  left ; 
and  they  are  nut  called  white  and  black  with  respect  to 
their  colour,  but  to  their  situation.  Because  the  Hack 
piece,  proceeding  toward  the  right,  that  is,  into  the  black 
and  void  space,  is  stationed  before  the  Husbandman.  But 
the  left,  by  its  own  power,  moves  two  points,  the  one 
towards  the  white  space  on  the  right;  and  the  other, 
towards  the  white  and  void  space  on  the  left.  Thus  also 
of  the  third  piece  to  the  third  square,  by  preserving  its 
proper  situation  on  the  board ;  g  bo  that  if  it  be  black,  to 

*  Schaearium  ie  tbo  table  or  board  on  which  the  same  is  played, 
being  distinguish*  ■•[  I  y  alhnmtr  black  and  white  squares. 

+  Boehut,  Jtiirrwi,  Ilf-H*.  Ilr-1-u.f,  from  Die  German  word  RocR, 
signifying  on  upper  garment.  Whether  thin  etymology  can  be  ad- 
mitted is  very  doubtful.      It  moves  to  i.he  rifiht,  in  1' send. -Ovid. 

[This  pieoe  is  the  Castle  or  Hook.— EnJ 

X  This  piece  is  rolled,  by  the  French.  \.r.  r'"i..  nnd  by  the  Italians, 
Alfino  (Du  Freim:  in  u).  According  to  Pseudo-Ovidiufl,  it  moves  in 
an  oblique  direction. 

[The  Bishop;  which  Formerly  could  only  move  two  squares  at  a 
time,  but  could  leap  over  an  intervening  man. — Ed.] 

g  [This  sentence  ie  very  obscure,  and  must  be  corrupt,  I  think ; 
but  this  description  of  the  game  (chess)  is  coufuae.il  u\V VWiiijJi.— ; luu^ 


316  GESTA   KOMASOR17M. 

black,  and  tie  contrary — proceeding  in  an  angular  ilireo 

The  third  kind  is  of  Knights,  of  whom  the  right  is 
white,  and  the  left  black.  The  white,  when  on  his  «rn 
square,  haa  three  moves— one  towards  the  right  in  the 
black  place  before  the  Hushand.mas  ;  the  other  in  the  black 
and  void  space  before  the  Wool-cahuer  ;  the  third,  towards 
the  left,  in  the  place  of  a  Merchast.  When  this  piece  is 
fised  near  the  king,  it  may  move  six  squares,  and  when 
in  the  middle,  eight.  It  ib  the  same  with  the  left.  When 
the  black  is  opposite  to  the  king,  and  the  white  also  oppo- 
site, they  move  together;  one  is  placed  before  the  queen, 
as  the  left ;  the  other,  before  the  king,  as  the  right, 

The  fourth  kind  is  of  the  inferior  pieces,  which  haw 
one  and  the  same  move.  For  from  the  square  on  which 
they  are  placed  they  may  proceed  to  the  third,  and  there, 
as  in  security,  remain  within  reach  of  the  king.  But 
when  they  go  out  of  the  king's  move,  they  are  content 
with  one  square,  and  proceed  in  a  direct  line.  Yet  they 
never  rotnrn  in  this  manner,  but  secure  by  their  progress 
those  honours  which  belong  by  their  position  to  the  nobles. 
If  they  should  be  assisted  by  the  knights  and  other  noble- 
pieces,  and  arrive  at  the  line  of  squares  where  the  adver- 
sary's nobles  are  posted,  they  acquire,  by  their  valour,  » 
power  conferred  by  grace  on  the  queen.  But  it  should.'* 
observed  that  if  the  inferior  pieces,  going  on  the  right. 
find  any  noble  or  vulgar  adversary,  and  this  in  an  angle, 
they  may  take  or  kill  him  on  the  right  or  the  left;  but 
the  inferior  piece  never  moves  out  of  the  straight  line,  to 
the  right  or  left,  unless  he  has  obtained  power  ui  a* 
queen.* 

The  fifth  piece  in  the  play  of  the  Schaci  is  called  tho 
Queen.  Her  move  is  from  white  to  black,  and  she  is  placed 
near  the  king  :  if  she  quit  his  side,  she  is  captured.    "When 

*  I  have  tin  m;."]  it  it  tisi-lt'Sii  1"  trim  shite  the  very  strained  appliciti"" 
of  this  gumc.  iiitri'ilm-ril  li!:twrc;ii  I'lu'li  ili'»rri|>ttuTi,  hut  the  IVillminc 
illustration  [ilt)iu|.i!j  oui;ht  not  to  Ims  disi-urilt.il:— "  Virjjil,  dpst'DtltJ 
from  a  low  Ijiiin-'hiird  ['.".  Herman]  family,  !>ut  11  native  of  iUn'.---<. 
ma  most  rcimwrn-d  fur  hi»  wisdnii),  mid  the  pxivlk-iict]  nf  his  pwtii'J 
tulent.  Whi-n  auiii.l-iily  juvused  liini  of  inserting  certain  nf  Hnirirf'1 
verses  in  hi*  work.  In-  :tii.-\vcreil.  ■  Thut  they  weru  strong  uicu  »l"' 
ouuld  brandish  the  club  of  Hercules. ' " 


OF   THE    GAME   OF    SCHACI.  K17 

she  has  moved  from  the  black  square  in  which  she  wan 
first  placed,  she  can  go  only  from  square  to  square,  and 
this  angularly,  whcfliw  she  go  tin-ward  nr  return  ;  whether 
she  take,  or  is  taken.  But  if  it  be  asked  why  the  queen 
is  exposed  to  war,  when  the  condition  of  a.  female  is  frail 
and  tin  warlike,  wo  reply,  when  husbanda  go  out  to  battle, 
it  is  customary  for  their  women  and  wives,  and  the  rest 
of  their  family,  to  live  in  the  camp.  And  though  they  do 
not  use  a  bow,  and  encumber  men  more  by  their  whims 
than  they  destroy  the  foe  by  their  valour,  yet  the  queen 
is  intended  for  the  king's  help.  Therefore,  that  she  may 
evince  her  affeetion,  she  accompanies  him  to  battle.* 

The  sixth  kind  of  pieces  used  in  this  game  are  the 
Kings.  The  king  shows  above  all  the  rest  what  is  the 
nature  of  motion  and  progression.  For  since  he  may 
reside  in  tliu  fourth  square  with  the  white,  though  he 
himself  lie  black,  ho  hath  the  Knight  on  the  right  hand 
in  a  white  space,  but  the  Alphinus  and  the  Kocbus  in  the 
black.  In  the  left  he  holds  opposite  places.  But  though 
the  king  has  more  power  and  dignity  than  ail  the  other 
pieces, it  does  not  lu.'eonje  him  to  move  far  from  his  throne; 
and  therefore  he  begins  his  move  from  his  own  white 
square,  like  the  HocHi,  from  right  and  left.  Yet  he  cannot 
be  placed  on  the  left  in  the  black  space,  near  the  situation 
of  the  Rochus  on  the  white ;  but  he  may  go  into  the  white 
upace  near  the  aforesaid  Kochus  in  the  corner  square,  where 
the  guards  of  the  city  are  fised;  and  there  he  hath  in  such 

*  Amnng  inany  other  matters  in  dispraise  of  the  fair  acx,  which 
are  found  in  this  ii]>|>!i<-;uinii  (mid  whieli  !  shmdd  lilnsh  to  translate  !), 
the  writer  observes  alter  Smiwji,  "  (Juinl  wulierea  qwe  malum  faciei» 
liubent,  leves  et  inipndiue  si  in  I."  lint  this  is  a  Hfttonic  tenet  Again, 
"Qcidius"  (or  Ovum's)  very  learnedly  remark»,  "Casta  eat  qim.ni 
nemo  rogavit."  This  is  no  doubt  the  original  of  a  song  in  Congreve'i 
Love  for  Lot*. 

"A  nympli  and  a  a  wain  to  Apollo  once  prayed; 
The  awain  hud  Wri:  jilted,  tin.:  nymph  been  betrayed; 

t  Their  intent  was  tu  try  if  Id.-  oraale  knew 
E'er  a.  nyuipji  that  was  chaste,  or  a  swain  that  waa  true. 
Apollo  waa  mute,  and  had  like  to've  been  posed, 
But  sagely  at  length  he  [his  si-eret  disclosed  : 
He  alone  won't  betray  in  whom  none  will  confide  r 
And  the  nyuiph  may  be  chaste,  that  has  w 


GESTA  HOMANORUM. 

e  the  nature  of  the  knight.      But  he  takes  theac  two 
B8  in  place  of  the  queen." 


TALE  CLXVII. 

OF    HEARING    GOOD   COUNSEL. 

An  archer,  catching  a  little  hird  called  a  nightingale. 
was  about  to  put  her  to  death.  But,  being  gifted  with 
language,  she  said  to  him,  "  What  will  it  advantage  v  J 
to  kill  me?  I  cannot  satisfy  your  appetite.  Let  meg0, 
and  I  will  give  you  three  rules,  from  which  you  «ill 
derive  great  benefit,  if  you  follow  them  accurately." 
Astonished  at  hearing  the  hird  apeak,  he  promised  wr 
liberty  on  the  conditions  she  had  stated.  "  Hear,  then," 
eaid  she :  "  never  attempt  impossibilities  ;  secondly,  do  not 
lament  an  irrecoverable  loss;  thirdly,  do  not  credit  tiling 
that  are  incredible.  If  you  keep  these  three  maxima  wiih 
wisdom,  they  will  infinitely  profit  you."  The  man,  fiitli- 
ful  to  his  promise,  let  the  bird  escape.  Winging  htr 
flight  through  the  air,  she  commenced  a  most  exigiiisitu 
song ;  and  having  finished,  said  to  the  archer,  "  Thou  art 
a  silly  follow,  and  hast  to-day  lost  a  great  treasure- 
There  is  in  my  bowels  a  pearl  bigger  than  the  egg  of  an 
ostrich. "  Full  of  vexation  at  her  escape,  lie  immediately 
spread  his  nets  and  endeavoured  to  take  her  a  second 
time ;  but  she  eluded  his  art.  "  Come  into  my  house, 
sweet  hird  I "  said  he,  "  and  I  will  show  thee  every 
kindness.  I  will  feed  thee  with  my  own  hands,  «ud 
permit  thee  to  fly  abroad  at  pleasure."  The  nightingale 
answered,  "  Now  I  am  certain  thuu  art  a  fool,  and  piiyist 
no  regard  to  the  counsel  I  gave  thee :  '  Regret  not  «hat 
is  irrecoverable.'  Thou  canst  not  take  me  again,  yet  thou 
hast  spread  thy  snares  for  that  purpose.  Moreover,  th'111 
believest  that  my  bowels  contain  a  pearl  larger  than  the 
egg  of  an  ostrich,  when  I  myself  am  nothing  near  that 

•  I  cannot  hope  that  I  have  translated  this  account  of  »n  obsrw 
game  quite  intelligibly;  but  I  was  unwilling  to  omit  it. 

[A»  remurked  iu  our  Nuts  ;;'J.  ibis  -'ubs'.'ure  gnuie"  is  Class-— ^J 


OF   ETERNAL    CONDEMNATION.  3 

size !  Thou  art.  a  fool ;  and  a  fool  thou  wilt  always 
remain."  With  this  consolatory  assurance  she  flew  away. 
The  man  returned  sorrowfully  to  hi»  own  house,  but  never 
again  obtained  a  sight  of  the  nightingale.  (33) 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  archer  is  any  Christian  :  the  nightin- 
gale is  Christ ;  and  man  attempts  to  kill  Him  as  often  s 
he  sins. 


TALE   CLXVIII. 

OF   ETERNAL  CONDEMNATION. 

BaklaAM  says  that  a  sinner  is  like  a  man  who,  being 
afraid  of  a  unicorn,  stepped  hackward  into  a  deep  pit. 
But  when  he  had  fallen  he  laid  hold  of  the  branch  of  a 
tree,  and  drew  himself  up.  Looking  below,  he  espied 
at  the  foot  of  the  tree  by  which  tie  had  ascended  a  very 
black  well,  and  a  horrible  dragon  encompassing  it.  The 
dragon  appeared  to  expect  his  fall  with  extended  jaws. 
Now,  tho  tree  was  constantly  being  gnawed  by  two  mice, 
of  which  one  was  white  and  the  otEet  black,  ;uid  the  man 
felt  it  shake.  There  wcro  also  four  white  vipers  at  its 
foot,  which  filled  the  whole  pit  with  their  pestilential 
breath.     Lifting  up  bis  eyes,  tho  man  beheld  honey  drop- 

Sing  from  a  bough  of  the  tree  ;  and,  wholly  forgetful  of  his 
anger,  he  gave  himself  up  to  the  fatal  sweetness.  A  friend, 
sketching  out  to  him  a  ladder,  would  have  raised  him 
entirely  out ;  but,  overcome  by  the  allurement,  he  clung  to 
the  tree,  which  fell,  and  cast  him  into  the  jaws  of  the 
dragon.  The  monster  immediately  descending  to  the 
lowest  pit,  there -devoured  him.  He  thus  died  a 
able  death.' 

•  "  This  is  anothar  of  Barlaam'a  Apologues  in  Damascenus's 
romance  of  Baklaam  and  Josapkat  :  iiml  whieli  has  been  adopted 
into  the  Lives  of  tha  Saints,  ijy  .Suriiis  mil  others.  A  uoimmseatios 
is  subjoined,  eiactly  agreeing  with  that  in  the  Gksta." — Wauton. 


GESTA   ROMANORUM. 


APPLICATION. 


My  Moved,  man  is  that  sinner ;  and  the  unicorn  ii 
death.  The  pit  is  the  world ;  the  tree  is  life,  which  i» 
ever  being  consumed,  as  it  were,  by  the  white  mouse  and 
the  blaek,  even,-  hour  of  the  day  and  night.  The  past 
which  the  vijw.ts  oeeuriii-d  is  the  human  frame  ;  the  ilra^ni 
is  the  devil ;  and  the  lower  (tit  in  hell.  The  honoyc'l  ln.mjrh 
is  the  pleasures  of  sin;  the  friend,  any  Christian  preacher; 
and  the  ladder  is  penitence. 


TALE  CLSIX. 

OP  MANNER  OF   LIFE. 

Tragus  PosiPF.itra  •  relates  of  Lijrurius,  a  noble  knight,  (hit 
he  induced  the  inhabitants  of  the  state  to  make  oath  that 
they  would  faithfully  preserve  certain  just  and  whole- 
some, though  rather  severe  laws,  until  he  returned  with 
an  answer  from  the  oracle  of  Apollo,  whom  be  feigned  to 
have  made  them.  He  then  went  to  Crete,  and  there  abcdo 
in  voluntary  exile.  But  when  he  was  dead,  the  ritSMM 
brought  back  his  bones,  imagining  that  they  were  then 
freed  from  the  obligation  of  their  oath.  These  laws  were 
twelve  in  number.  The  first  insisted  on  obedience  to 
their  princes,  and  enjoined  princes  to  watch  over  the  well* 
being  of  their  subjects,  and  to  repress  wickedness.  The 
eecond  law  commanded  economy,  and  considered  war 
better  provided  for  by  sobriety  than  drunkenness.  Tha 
third  law  ordained  rewards  to  he  proportioned  to  merit- 
The  fourth  laid  down,  that  silver  and  gold  were  the  vileet 
of  all  things.  The  fifth  divided  the  administration  of 
government ;  empowering  kings  to  make  war,  magistratM 
to  give  judgment,  and  the  seuate  to  try  offenders.  It  «I*1 
conferred  upon  the  people  permission  to  elect  their  rulers. 

*  "Our  compiler  here  means  Justin's  Abridgment  of  Tlflgw: 
which,  to  tht  irreparable  injury  of  literature,  soon  destroyed  'u 
original.  An  early  epitome-  of  ) .ivy  would  have-  been  attended  fit* 
the  same  unhappy  ctraueo,  uenc.ee." — Wabtos. 


OF  REPENTANCE.  321 

The  sixth  law  apportioned  lands,  and  settled  disputed  claima 
respecting  patrimony,  so  that  no  ono  could  become  more 
powerful  than  another.  The  seventh  enjoined  all  feasts 
to  be  held  in  public,  lest  one  person  should  1».'  the  cause  of 
luxury  to  another;  the  eighth,  that  young  men  should 
have  tut  one  habit  during  the  year  ;  the  ninth,  that  poor 
lads  Bhould  be  employed  in  the  fields,  and  not  in  the 
forum,  by  which  their  first  vi.ns  should  be  spent  in  hard 
labour,  not  in  idleness.  The  tenth  law  exacted  that 
virgins  bo  married  without  dowry ;  the  eleventh,  that 
wives  he  not  chosen  for  money  ;  and  the  twelfth,  that  the 
greatest  honour  should  not  bo  assigned  to  the  greatest 
wealth,  but  to  priority  in  years.  And  whatever  law 
Ligurius  established,  he  himself  observed  beyond  all 
others.* 


My  beloved,  the  knight  is  Christ ;  and  the  laws,  those 
moral  ordinances  which  He  established. 


TALE    CLXX. 

OF  REPENTANCE. 

A  certain  gambler  met  St.  Bernard  on  horseback. 
"  Father,"  said  he,  "  I  will  play  with  you,  and  stake  my 
kouI  against  your  horse."  InniKidhitely  .St.  Bernard  dis- 
mounted, and  said,  "  If  you  throw  more  points  than  I,  you 
Khali  have  my  horse ;  but  if  not,  I  will  tako  possession  of 
your  soul."  The  gambler  acceded  ;  and  taking  up  the 
dice,  threw  seventeen  points.  Thinking  himself  sure  of 
the  victory,  he  laid  hold  of  the  bridle  of  St.  Bernard's 
steed.  "  My  son,"  said  the  holy  man,  "  there  are  more 
points  than  that  in  three  dice.'  Accordingly,  he  threw 
eighteen  points,  ono  more  than  the  gambler;  who  forth- 
with put  himself  under  the  guidance  of  the  saint.  After 
*  [The  lawgiver  who  acted  aa  stated  in  tliia  atota  tras  S*s\ofc^~ 
Ed.] 


322  GESTA  ROSLANORUI 

a.  life  of  great  sanctity,  ho  came  to  a   happy  end,  and. 
passed  into  the  joy  of  his  Lord.*  (34) 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  gambler  ia  any  worldly-minded  imn, 
and  Bernard  is  a  discreet  confessor.  His  horse  typifies  bis 
heart;  and  the  three  dice  are  the  Holy  Trinity. 


TALE  CLXXI. 


[  OF 


Tetrdb  Alphosscts  t  relates  a  story  of  two  knights,  of 
whom  one  dwelt  in  Egypt  an-1  tho  oilier  in  Baldao.J  Mes- 
sengers often  passed  between  them;  and  whatever  there  «a* 
curious  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  the  knight  of  that  country 
sent  to  his  friend,  and  he,  in  like  manner,  sent  hack  an 
equivalent.  Thus  much  kindness  wan  manifested  on  both 
sides.      But  neither  had  ever  seen  tho  other. 

As  the  knighl  of  Hibhic  once  lay  upon  his  bel.  he  lit-U 
the  following  soliloquy  : — "  My  correspondent  in  Egypt  hw 
discovered  much  friendship  for  me  ;  but  I  have  never  jet 
seen  him  :  I  will  go  and  pay  him  a  visit."  Accordingly  hi> 
hired  a  ship  and  went  into  Egypt ;  and  his  friend,  hearing 
of  his  arrival,  mat  him  by  the  way,  and  received  him  with 
much  pleasure.  Now,  the  knight  had  a  very  beautiful  girl 
in  his  house,  with  whom  tho  knight  of  Baldac  was  bo  smitten, 
that  he  fell  sick  and  pined  away.  "  My  friend,"  said  the 
other,   "what  is  the  matter  with  you?"     "My  heart," 

"  From  Caxton's  Golden  Leqend.    See  tho  Note, 

t  "Thie  ia  the  story  of  fioooaoe'e  popular  novel  of  Trro  iw 
liiaippo,  and  of  Lydyatu's  Tals  of  too  MardutnU  of  Egypt  aid  <t) 
Haidad,  a  mauu-iTi|it  [.mem  in  tin:  Uritinh  .Mi^emu,  jlis'1  lalelv  in  L; 
libirary  of  Dr.  Askew,1  Peter  Alphonsmi  is  quoted  fortliii  «lory; «J 
it  mates  the  »e<-<nul  fnlil»  ,.f  his  (./lericalis  ■JuscirMHA.'" 

[Compare  Tale  CVIIL— En.] 

;.  Bagdad. 


OP  TOO  MUCH  LOVE.  323 

returned  Ma  comrade,  "  has  fixed  itself  upon  one  of  the 
■wonnjn  of  your  household,  and  unless  I  may  espouse  her  I 
shall  die."  Upon  this,  all  the  household,  save  the  indi- 
vidual in  question,  were  summoned  livtbro  him  ;  and  having 
surveyed  them,  he  exclaimed,  "  I  care  little  or  nothing  for 
these.  But  there  is  one  other  whom  I  have  not  seen ;  and 
her  my  eoul  loveth."  At  last  this  girl  was  shown  to  him. 
He  protested  that  it  was  to  her  alone  that  he  must  owe 
his  life.  "  Sir,"  said  his  friend,  "  I  brought  this  girl  up 
with  the  intention  of  making  her  my  wife;  and  I  shall 
obtain  much  wealth  with  her.  Nevertheless,  so  strong  is 
my  affection  for  you,  that  I  give  her  to  you  with  all  the 
riches  which  should  have  fallen  to  my  share."  The  sick 
knight,  overjoyed  at  his  good  fortune,  received  the  lady 
and  the  money,  and  returned  with  her  to  Baldac. 

After  awhile  the  knight  of  Egypt  Ijijoaine  so  extremely 
indigent  that  he  possessed  no  habitation.  "  I  had  better," 
thought  he,  "  go  to  my  friend  of  Baldac,  to  him  whom  I 
enriched,  and  inform  him  of  my  wants."  He  did  so ;  and 
reached  Baldac  a  while  after  sunset.  "  It  is  night,"  said 
he  to  himself;  "  if  I  go  now  to  my  friend's  house,  he  will 
not  know  me,  for  I  am  so  poorly  dressed.  I,  who  once  used 
to  have  a  large  household  about  me,  am  now  desolate  and 
destitute.  To-night,  therefore,  I  will  rest,  and  on  the 
morrow  will  go  to  his  mansion."  Happening  to  look 
toward  a  burial-ground,  he  observed  the  gates  of  a  church, 
thrown  open,  and  here  he  determined  to  remain  for  the 
night.  But  while  he  was  endeavouring  to  compose  him- 
self to  sleep  in  a  court  of  that  place,  there  entered  two 
men,  who  engaged  in  battle ;  and  one  was  slain,  The 
murderer  instantly  fled  to  the  burial-ground,  and  escaped 
on  the  other  side.  By  and  by  an  extraordinary  clamour 
penetrated  through  the  whole  city.  "  Where  is  the  mur- 
derer? Where  is  the  traitor?"  was  the  general  cry.  "I 
am  he,"said  our  knight ;  "  take  me  to  crucifixion."  They 
laid  hands  on  him  and  led  him  away  to  prison.  Early  the 
next  morning  the  city  bell  rang,  and  the  judge  sentenced 
him  to  be  crucified.  Amongst  those  who  followed  to 
witness  his  execution  was  the  knight  whom  he  had 
befriended ;  and  the  former,  seeing  him  led  towards  the 
cross,  knew  him  at  once.     "  What  1"  cried,  tw,  "&W\,D»\ft 


GESTA  BOMANORUM. 

crucified,  and  I  alive?"  Shouting,  therefore,  with  a  lend 
voice,  he  said,  "  My  friends !  destroy  not  an  innocent  mm. 
I  am  the  murderer,  and  not,  he."  Satisfied  with  his  de- 
claration, they  immediately  seized  him  and  brought  "both 
to  the  cross.  When  they  were  near  the  place  of  execution, 
the  real  murderer,  who  happened  to  be  present,  thought 
thus.  "  I  will  not  permit  innocent  blood  to  be  shed :  the 
vengeance  of  God  will  sooner  or  later  overtake  me,  and  it 
is  better  to  suffer  a  short  pain  in  this  world  than  subject 
myself  to  everlasting  torments  in  the  next."  Then  lifting 
up  his  voice.  "  My  friends !  for  God's  sake,  slay  not  the 
guiltless.  The  dead  man  was  killed  without  premedita- 
tion, and  without  the  knowledge  of  either  of  these  men. 
I  only  am  the  murderer ;  let  those  men  go."  The 
crowd,  hearing  what  he  said,  instantly  apprehended  ami 
brought  him  with  no  little  amazement  to  the  judge.  The 
judge,  seeing  the  reputed  criminals  along  with  them,  asked 
with  surprise  why  they  had  returned.  They  relate! 
what  had  occurred ;  and  the  judge,  addressing  the  first 
knight,  said,  "  Friend,  why  did  you  confess  yourself  the 
murderer?"  "My  lord,"  answered  he,  "I  will  tell  yon 
without  deceit.  In  my  own  land  I  was  rich  ;  and  every- 
thing that  I  desired  I  bad.  But  I  lost  all  this ;  and  pos- 
sessing neither  house  nor  home,  I  was  ashamed,  and 
sought  in  this  confession  to  obtain  a.  remedy,  I  am  will- 
ing to  die ;  and  for  Heaven's  love  command  me  to  be  put 
to  death."  The  judge  then  turning  to  the  knight  of  Bal- 
dac — "And  you,  my  friend !  why  did  you  avow  yourself 
the  murderer?"  "My  lord,"  replied  he,  "this  knight 
bestowed  upon  me  a  wife,  whom  he  had  previously  edu- 
cated for  himself,  with  an  infinite  store  of  wealth.  When, 
therefore,  I  perceived  my  old  and  valued  friend  reduced  to 
such  an  extremity,  and  saw  him  led  rudely  to  the  cross,  I 
proclaimed  myself  the  murderer.  For  his  love  I  would 
willingly  perish."  "  Now  then,"  said  the  judge  to  the  real 
homicide,  "  what  have  you  to  say  for  yourself !  "  "1  h»™ 
told  the  truth,"  answered  he.  "  It  would  have  been  a  beavv 
i,  indeed,  had  I  permitted  two  innocent  men  to  pcriM 
by  my  fault,  and  I  therefore  prefer  to  undergo  tho  penalty 
here,  than  to  be  punished  at  some  other  time,  or  perhap" 
a  hell."     "  Well,"  returned  the  judge,  "since  you  h*" 


OF    MEXTAL    CONSTANCY.  325 

declared  the  truth  and  saved  the  lives  of  the  innocent, 
study  to  amend  your  future  life ;  for  this  time  1  pardon 
you — go  in  peace." 

The  pooplo  unanimously  applauded  tin/  decision  of  the 

judge  in  acquitting  the  guilty  pemm.  whom.:  magnanimity 
had  rescued  two  innocent  persons  from  death. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  God ;  *  the  two  knights, 
Christ  and  our  first  parent,  f  The  beautiful  girl  is  the 
soul.     The  dead  man  ia  the  spirit  destroyed  by  tho  flesh. 


TALE  CLXXII. 

OF   MENTAL   CONSTANCY. 

In  the  reign  of  a  certain  King  of  England,  thero  were  two 
knights,  one  of  whom  was  culled  Guido,und  the  other  Tyrius. 
The  former  engaged  in  many  wars,  and  always  triumphed. 
He  was  enamoured  of  a  beautiful  girl  of  noble  family,  but 
"whom  he  could  not  prevail  upon  to  marry  him,  until  he 
had  encountered  many  enemies  for  her  sake.  At  last,  at 
tho  conclusion  of  a  particular  exploit,  he  gained  her  con- 
sent, and  married  her  with  great  .■splendour.  On  the  third 
night  succeeding  their  nuptials,  about  cook -crowing,  he 
arose  from  his  bod  to  look  upon  the  sky;  and  amongst  the 
most  lustrous  stars  he  clearly  distinguished  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  who  said,  "  (iuido,  Guldol  you  have  fought 
much  and  valiantly  for  the  love  of  a  woman ;  it  is  now 
time  that  you  should  encounter  my  enemies  with  equal 
resolution."  Having  so  said,  our  Lord  vanished.  Guido, 
therefore,  perceiving  that  it  was  His  pleasure  to  send  him 

*  There  is  no  Esirt:T:oii  in  the  ftory:  but  that  la  of  little  conse- 
quence. The  render  must  »it},ptisr>  one.  Long  uae  had  so  habituated 
the  author  or  author*  of  tlie  Gesta  Rnmanorum  to  the  anomalous 
iritrml action  of  nn  cmpL.r.T.  rLnl  Uie  emission  must  have  been  held  ■ 
flagrant  breach  of  court  etiquette. 

t  "In  agrv  Ikwtuec'ntu  I'laMnutua  eat"  in  the  originnU 


326  GESTA  ROHAXOBUM. 

to  tho  Holy  Land,  to  avenge  Him  upon  the  infidels,  re- 
turned to  Ms  wife.  "  I  go  to  the  Holy  Land ;  should 
Providence  bless  ub  with  a  child,  attend  carefully  to  its 
education  until  my  return."  The  lady,  startled  at  these 
words,  sprung  up  from  the  bed  as  one  distracted,  ami 
catching  a  dagger,  which  was  placed  at  the  head  of  the 
coach,  cried  out,  "Oh,  my  lord,  I  have  always  loved  you, 
and  looked  forward  with  anxiety  to  our  marriage,  even 
when  you  were  in  battle,  and  spreading  your  fame  over 
all  the  world;  and  will  you  now  leave  me?  First  will 
I  stab  myself  with  this  dagger."  Guido  arose,  and  loot 
away  the  weapon.  "  My  beloved,"  said  he,  "  your  words 
alarm  me.  I  have  vowed  to  God  that  I  will  visit  tho 
Holy  Land.  The  best  opportunity  is  the  present,  Mb" 
old  age  come  upon  me.  Bo  not  disturbed. ;  I  will  soon 
return."  Somewhat  comforted  with  this  assurance,  she 
presented  to  him  a  ring.  "  Take  this  ring,  and  as  often 
as  yon  look  upon  it  in  your  pilgrimage,  think  of  me.  I 
will  await  with  patience  your  return."  The  knight  We 
her  farewell,  and  departed  in  company  with  Tyrius.  At 
for  the  lady,  she  gave  herself  up  to  her  sorrows  for  many 
days,  and  would  not  be  consoled.  In  due  time  she  brought 
forth  a  son  of  extreme  beauty,  and  tenderly  watohed  ovw 
his  infant  years. 

Guido  and  Tyriua,  in  the  mean  while,  passed  through 
many  countries,  and  heard  at  last  that  the  kingdom  of 
Dacia  *  had  been  subdued  by  the  infidels.  "  My  friend," 
said  Guido  to  his  associate,  "  do  you  enter  this  kingdom ; 
and  since  the  king  of  it  is  a  Christian,  assist  him  withal! 
your  power.  I  will  proceed  to  tho  Holy  Land ;  and  when 
I  have  combated  against  the  foes  of  Christ,  I  will  return 
to  you,  and  we  will  joyfully  retrace  our  steps  to  England, 
"Whatever  pleases  you,"  replied  his  friend,  "  shall  pies* 
me.  I  will  enter  this  kingdom  ;  and  if  yon  live,  come  to 
me.  We  will  return  together  to  our  country."  Quito 
promised ;  and  exchanging  kisses,  they  soparated  with 
much  regret.  The  one  proceeded  to  tho  Holy  Land,  snd 
the  other  to  Dacia.  Guido  fought  many  battles  «gainst 
tho  Saracens,  and  was  victorious  in  all ;  so  that  his  fanw 

•  A  country  of  Srytbia  beyond  Hungary ;  divided  into  Tnunj^ 
ranis,  Wallaeliia.  and  Moldavia. 


OF   MENTAL   CONSTANCY.  327 

flew  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.     Tyrius,  in  like  manner, 

? roved  fortunate  in  war,  and  drove  the  infidels  from  the 
tacian  territory.  The  king  loved  and  honoured  him 
above  all  others,  and  conferred  on  iiini  great  riches.  But 
there  was  at  that  time  a  savage  nobleman,  f silled  Plebeus, 
in  whose  heart  the  pros]w>riiy  of  '1'yrins  excited  an  ioordi- 
nate  degree  of  hate  and  envy.  He  accused  him  to  the 
king  of  treason,  and  malevolently  insinuated  that  he 
designed  to  make  himself  master  of  the  kingdom.  The 
king  credited  the  assertion,  and  ungratefully  robbed 
Tyrius  of  all  the  honours  which  his  bounty  had  conferred. 
Tyrius,  therefore,  was  reduced  to  extreme  want,  and  had 
scarcely  the  common  sustenance  of  life.  Thus  desolate, 
he  gave  free  course  to  his  griefs  ;  and  exclaimed  in  great 
tribulation,  "Wretch  that  I  am!  what  will  become  cf 
we?"  While  he  was  taking  a  solitary  walk  in  sorrow, 
Guido,  journeying  alone  in  the  habit  of  a  pilgrim,  met 
him  by  the  way,  and  knew  him,  but  was  not  recognized 
by  his  friend.  He,  however,  presently  remembered  Tyrius, 
and  retaining  his  disguise,  approached  liiiu,  and  said,  "  My 
friend,  from  whence  are  you  ?  "  "  From  foreign  parts," 
answered  Tyrius,  "  but  I  have  now  been  many  years  in 
this  country.  I  had  once  a  companion  in  arms,  who  pro- 
ceeded to  the  Holy  Land;  but  if  he  be  alive  or  dead  I 
know  not,  nor  what  have  beeu  his  fortunes."  "  For  the 
love  of  thy  companion,  then,"  said  Guido,  "suffer  me  to 
lest  my  head  upon  your  lap,  and  sleep  a  little,  for  I  am 
very  weary."     He  assented,  and  Guido  fell  asleep. 

Now,  while  he  slept,  his  mouth  stood  open ;  and  as 
Tyrius  looked,  lie  iliw'uveivd  a  white  weasel  pass  out  of  it, 
and  run  toward  a  neighbouring  mouiiluiti,  which  it  entered. 
After  remaining  there  a  short  space,  it  returned,  and 
again  ran  down  the  sleeper's  throat.  Guido  straightway- 
awoke,  and  said,  "  My  friend,  I  have  had  a  wonderful 
dream!  I  thought  a  weasel  went  out  of  my  mouth,  and 
entered  yon  mountain,  and  after  that  returned."  "  Sir," 
answered  Tyrius,  "what  you  have  seen  in  a  dream  I 
beheld  with  my  own  eyes.  But  what  that  weasel  did  in 
the  mountain,  I  am  altogether  ignorant."  "Let  us  go 
and  look,"  observed  the  other ;  "  perhaps  we  may  find 
jthing  useful."     Accordingly,  they  entered  the  ^laca 


•omei 


328  GESTA  HOMANORUM. 

which  the  weasel  had  been  seen  to  enter,  and  found  there 
a  dead  dragon  filled  with  gold.  There  was  a  sword  aki, 
of  peculiar  polish,  and  inscribed  as  follows :  •'  Br  msjkS 

OF    THIS    SWORD,   GUIDO  SHALL  OVERCOME  THE  ADVERSARY  OF 

Tyrius."  Rejoiced  at  the  discovery,  the  disguised  pilgrim 
said,  "  My  friend,  the  treasure  is  thine,  but  the  sword  I 
will  take  into  ray  own  possession,"  "  My  lord,"  he 
answered.  '■  1  do  not  deserve  so  ranch  gold;  wbv  slifnil-: 
you  bestow  it  upon  me  1 "  "  Kaise  your  eyes,"  said  Guido, 
"I  am  your  friend!"  Hearing  this,  he  looked  at  him 
more  narrowly ;  and  when  be  recollected  bis  heroic  asso- 
ciate, be  fell  upon  the  earth  for  joy,  and  wept  exceedingly. 
"  It  is  enough ;  I  have  lived  enough,  now  that  I  have  wen 
you."  "  Rise,"  returned  Guido,  "rise  quickly;  you  ought 
to  rejoice  rather  than  weep  at  ray  coming.  I  will  combat 
your  enemy,  and  we  will  proceed  honourably  to  England. 
But  toll  no  one  who  I  am,"  Tyrius  arose,  fell  upon  hi* 
neek,  and  kissed  him.  lie  then  collected  the  gold,  and 
hastened  to  bis  home ;  but  Guido  knocked  at  the  gate  of 
the  king's  palace.  The  porter  inquired  the  cause,  and  lie 
informed  him  that  ho  was  a  pilgrim  newly  arrived  h* 
the  Holy  Land.  He  was  immediately  admitted,  and 
presented  to  the  king,  at  whose  side  sat  the  invidions 
noble  11  uui  who  hud  deprived  Tyrius  of  his  honours  and 
wealth,  "  Is  the  Holy  Land  at  peace  ? "  inquired  thr 
monarch.  "  Poaco  is  now  firmly  established,"  n&W 
Guido,  "  and  many  have  been  converted  to  Christianity.' 

King.  Did  you  see  an  English  knight  there,  called 
Guido,  who  has  hniiiht  .so  many  battles? 

Guido.  1  have  seen  him  often,  my  lord,  and  have  eaten 
with  him. 

King.  Is  any  mention  made  of  the  Christian  kings? 

Guido.  Yes,  my  lord ;  and  of  you  also.  It  is  said  that 
the  Saracens  and  other  infidels  had  taken  possession  ■ 
your  kingdom,  and  that  from  their  thraldom  you  ven 
delivered  by  the  valour  of  a  noble  knigbt,  named  Tyrius. 
afterwards  promoted  to  great  honour  and  riches.  It  ^ 
likewise  said  that  you  unjustly  deprived  this  same  Tyri"* 
of  what  you  had  eoiiferred,  at  the  malevolent  iristiiiaii"" 
of  a  knight  called  Pleheus. 

Ptebeus.  False  pilgrim  !  since  thou  presumest  to  utttr 


OF  MENTAL  CONSTANCY.  329 

these  lies,  hast  thou  courago  enough,  to  defend  them?  If 
so,  I  offer  thee  battle.  That  very  Tyrioa  would  have  de- 
throned the  king.  He  was  a  traitor,  and  therefore  lost 
hid  honours. 

Guido  (to  the  king).  My  lord,  since  he  has  been  pleased 
to  say  that  I  am  a  false  pilgrim,  and  that  Tyrius  is  a 
traitor,  I  demand  the  combat.  I  will  prove  upon  his 
body  that  he  lies. 

King.  I  am  well  pleased  with  your  determination : 
nay,  I  entreat  you  not  to  desist. 

Guido.  Furnish  me  with  arms,  then,  my  lord. 

King.  Whatever  you  want  shall  be  got  ready  for  you. 

The  king  then  appointed  a  day  of  battle  ;  and  i'ouring 
lest  the  pilgrim  Guido  should  in  the  mean  time  fall  by 
treachery,  he  called  to  him  his  daughter,  a  virgin,  and 
said,  "  As  you  love  the  life  of  that  pilgrim,  watch  over 
him,  and  let  him  want  for  nothing."  In  compliance, 
therefore,  with  her  father's  wish,  she  brought  him  into 
her  own.  chamber,  bathed  him,*  and  supplied  him  with 
every  requisite.  On  the  day  of  battle  Plebcus  armed 
himself,  and  standing  at  the  gate,  exclaimed,  "  Where  is 
that  false  pilgrim?  why  does  he  tarry?"  Guido,  hearing 
what  was  said,  put  on  bis  armour,  and  hastened  to  the 
lists.  They  fought  so  fiercely.  Ilia!  I'lolitns  would  have 
died  had  he  not  drank.  Addressing  his  antagonist,  he 
said,  "Good  pilgrim,  let  me  have  one  draught  of  water." 
"  I  consent,"  answered  Guido,  "  provided  you  faithfully 
promise  to  use  the  eame  courtesy  to  me,  should  I  require 
it."  "  I  promise,"  replied  the  other.  Having  quenched 
his  thirst,  he  rushed  on  Guido,  and  they  continued  the 
battle  with  redoubled  animosity.  By  and  by,  however, 
Guido  himself  thirsted,  and  required  the  si*me  courtesy 
to  be  shown  him  as  he  had  exhibited.  "  I  vow  to 
Heaven,"   answered    his   enemy,    "  that    you  shall  taste 

*  "  This  was  a  common  practice  in  the  ti 
examples  of  it  may  be  found  in  ancient  roinai 
assisted  in  bathing  the  knights  after  the  liuiu-iie;  el'  buttle,  but  ad- 
ministered proper  mediriiK's  l<>  lieul  Un;ir  «euiuls.  Mnlilar  iosUuH'cs 
occur  in  the  writings  of  llomer.  In  thu  Odjwey,  1'oljcaBte,  one 
the  daughters  of  Ncator,  bathes  IVleiiiLichiiH  ;  mill  it  appears  t 
HdIm  iipfupir  \it,A   nj^Fnvmpj-l   the  like  office  for  Ulysses. — Douce, 


330 


GESTA  ROMANOBUM. 


nothing,  except  by  the  strong  hand."  At  this  ungrateful 
return,  Guido,  defending  himself  as  well  as  he  could, 
approached  the  water,  leaped  in,  and  drank  as  much  as  ho 
wished.  I'll'  11  springing  out,  he  rushod  upon  the  trea- 
cherous Plebeus  like  a  raging  lion,  who  at  last  Bought 
refuge  in  flight.  The-  king,  observing  what  passed, 
caused  them  to  be  separated,  and  to  rest  for  that  night, 
that  in  the  morning  they  might  he  ready  to  renew  thu 
contest.  The  pilgrim  then  re-entered  his  chamber,  and 
received  from  the  kind's  daughter  all  the  kindness  it  wis 
in  her  power  to  display.  iShe  bound  up  his  wound*, 
prepared  supper,  and  placed  him  upon  a  strong  wooden 
pallet.  Wearied  with  the  eiertione  of  the  day,  he  HI 
asleep. 

Now,  PlcbeuB  had  seven  eons,  all  strong  men.  He  sent 
for  them,  and  spoke  thus  :  "  My  dear  children,  I  give  ytra 
to  understand  that,  unless  this  pilgrim  bo  destroyed  to- 
night, I  may  reckon  myself  among  the  dead  to-mornm. 
I  never  looked  upon  a  braver  man."  "  My  dear  father." 
said  one,  "  we  will  presently  get  rid  of  him."  About 
midnight,  therefore,  they  entered  the  girl's  chamber, 
where  the  pilgrim  slept,  and  beneath  which  the  se* 
flowed.  They  said  to  one  another,  "  If  we  destroy  hiffl 
in  bed,  we  are  no  better  than  dead  men  :  let  us  toss  bhn, 
bed  and  all,  into  the  sea.  It  will  be  thought  that  lio  baa 
fled."  This  scheme  was  approved;  and  accordingly  they 
took  up  the  slumping  warrior,  and  hurled  him  into  the 
waves."  He  slopt  on,  however,  without  perceiving  what 
had.  happened.  The  same  night  a  fisherman,  following 
his  occupation,  heard  the  fall  of  the  bed,  and  by  the  light 
of  the  moon  saw  him  floating  upon  the  water.  Much 
surprised,  he  called  out,  "  In  the  name  of  God,  who  are 
you?  Speak,  that  I  may  render  assistance,  before  the- 
waves  swallow  you  up."  Guido,  awoke  by  the  clamour, 
arose,  and  perceiving  the  sky  and  stars  above,  and  the 
ocean  beneath,  wondered  where  be  was.  "Good  friend, 
said  he  to  the  fisherman,  "  assist  me,  and  I  will  amply 
reward  you.     I  am  the  pilgrim  who  fought  in  the  lists; 

*  Thf*  incident  might  have  furnished  Lord  Byron  wilt  •** 
mysterious  di^ippuimiifi:  of  ^ir  Ezieliu,  in  hie  "  Lara."  But  I  *boaW 
tjeuredy  think  it. 


OF  MENTAL  CONSTANCY. 


331 


but  how  I  got  hither,  I  have  no  conception."  The  man, 
hearing  this,  took  him  into  his  vessel,  and  conveyed  him 
to  his  house,  where  he  rested  till  the  morning. 

The  sons  of  Plebeus,  in  the  mean  white,  related  what 
they  thought  the  end  of  the  pilgrim,  and  bade  their 
parent  discard  his  fear.  The  latter,  much  exhilarated, 
arose,  and  armed  himself;  and  going  to  the  gate  of  the 
palace,  called  out,  "Bring  forth  that  pilgrim,  that  I 
may  complete  my  revenge."  The  king  commanded  hia 
daughter  to  awake  and  prepare  him  for  battle.  Ac- 
cordingly, she  went  into  his  room,  but  he  was  not  to  be 
found.  She  wept  bitterly,  exclaiming  that  some  one  had 
conveyed  away  her  tirauuiro  ;  and  the  suTpriso  occasioned 
by  the  intelligence  was  not  less,  when  it  became  known 
that  his  bed  was  also  missing.  Some  said  that  ho  had 
fled;  others,  that  be  was  murdered.  Plebeus,  however, 
continued  his  clamour  at  the  gate.  "Bring  out  your 
pilgrim ;  to-day  I  will  present  his  head  to  the  king." 
Now,  while  all  was  bustle  and  inquiry  in  the  palace,  the 
fisherman  made  his  way  to  the  royal  seat,  and  said, 
"  Grieve  not,  my  lord,  for  the  loss  of  the  pilgrim.  Fish- 
ing last  night  in  the  sea,  I  observed  him  floating  upon  a 
bed.  I  took  him  on  board  my  vessel,  and  he  is  now 
asleep  at  my  house."  This  news  greatly  cheered  the 
king,  and  ho  immediately  suit,  to  him  to  prepare  for  a 
renewal  of  the  contest.  But  Plebeus,  terrified,  and  appre- 
hensive of  the  consequence,  besought  a  truce.  This  was 
denied,  even  for  a  single  hour.  Both,  therefore,  re-entered 
the  lists,  and  each  struck  twice ;  but  at  tho  third  blow 
Guido  cut  off  his  opponent's  arm,  and  afterwards  his  head. 
He  presented  it  to  the  king,  who  evinced  himself  well 
satisfied  with  the  event;  and  hearing  that  the  sons  of 
Plebeus  were  instruments  in  tho  meditated  treachery,  he 
caused  them  to  he  crucified.  The  pilgrim  was  loaded  with 
honours,  and  offered  immense  wealth  if  ho  would  remain 
•with  the  king,  which  ho  resolutely  declined.  Through 
him  Tyrius  was  reinstated  in  his  former  dignity,  and 
recompensed  for  his  past  suffering.  He  then  bade  the 
king  farewell.  "Good  friend,"  returned  the  monarch, 
"  for  the  love  of  Heaven,  leave  me  not  ignorant  of  your 
name."     "  My  lord,"  answered  he,  "  I  am  ttai,  Ci\i\io  A 


332  GESTA  RO.MANORUSt. 

whom  you  liave  often  heard."  Overjoyed  at  this  happy 
discovery,  the  king  fell  upon  his  neck,  and  promised  inn 
ft  large  part  of  his  dominions  if  lie  would  remain.  But  In 
could  not  prevail ;  and  the  warrior,  after  returning  kin 
friendly  salutation,  departed. 

Guido  embarked  for  England,  and  hastened  to  his  owe 
castle.  He  found  a  great  number  of  pauj.iers  standing 
about  his  gate ;  and  amongst  them,  habited  as  a  pilgrim, 
sat  the  countess,  his  wife.  Every  day  did  she  thus  minis- 
ter to  the  poor,  bestowing  a  penny  upon  each,  with  it 
request  that  he  would  pray  far  the  safety  of  her  husDaml 
tiuido,  that  onee  more,  before  death,  she  might  rejoica  in 
his  presence.  It  happened,  on  the  very  day  of  his  retnm, 
that  his  son,  now  seven  years  of  age,  sat  with  his  mother 
among  the  mendicants,  sinnptumisly  apparelled.  When 
ho  heard  his  mother  address  the  person  who  experienced 
her  bounty  in  the  manner  mentioned  above,  "  Motber," 
said  he,  "  is  it  not  my  father  whom  you  recommend  to  the 
prayers  of  these  poor  people  ?  "  "  It  is,  my  son,"  replied 
she;  "  the  third  night  ful  lowing  our  marriage  he  left  me. 
and  I  have  never  seen  him  since."  Now,  as  the  lad)' 
walked  among  her  dependents,  who  were  ranged  iu  order, 
she  approached  her  own  husband  Uuido,  and  gave  him 
alms — but  she  knew  not  who  he  was.  He  bowed  liia  head 
in  acknowledgment,  fearful  lest  his  voice  should  discover 
him.  As  the  countess  walked,  her  son  followed;  and 
linido  raising  his  eyes  and  seeing  iiis  offspring,  whom  he 
had  not  before  seen,  ho  could  not  contain  himself.  He 
caught  him  in  his  arms,  and  kissed  him.  "  My  durlitJg 
child,"  said  he,  "may  the  Lord  give  thee  grace  to  do  tin' 
which  is  pleasing  in  ilis  eyes."  The  damsels  of  the  lad?- 
observing  the  emotion  and  action  of  the  pilgrim,  culled» 
him  and  bade  him  stand  there  no  longer.  He  appruachcl 
his  wife's  presence,  and  without  making  himself  known, 
entreated  of  her  permission  to  occupy  some  retired  pU<* 
in  the  neighbouring  forest;  and  she,  supposing  that_he 
was  the  pilgrim  he  appeared  to  be,  for  the  love  of  God 
and  of  her  husband  built  him  a  hermitage,  and  thera 
he  remained  a  long  time.  But  being  on  the  point  of 
death,  he  called  his  attendant.,  and  said,  "Go  quickly  to 
the   countess ;    give  her  that  ring,  and   say  that  if  ^ 


OF   THE    BURDENS    OF   THIS    LIFE.  3 

wishes  to  aee  me,  she  must  come  hither  with  all  speed." 
The  messenger  went  accordingly,  iiLnl  delivered  the  ring. 
As  soon  as  she  had  scon  it,  she  oxclaimed,  "  It  is  my  lord's 
ring  !  "  and  with  a  fleet  foot  hurried  into  the  forest.  But 
Guido  was  dead.  She  fell  upon  the  corpse,  and  with  a 
loud  voice  cried,  "  Woe  is  me  !  my  hope  is  extinct !  "  and 
then  with  sighs  and  lamentations  continued,  "  Where  are 
now  the  alms  I  distributed  in  behalf  of  my  lord  ?  I  beheld 
my  husband  receive  my  gifts  with  his  own  hands,  and 
knew  him  not.  And  as  for  thee  "  (apostrophizing  the  dead 
body),  "  thou  sawest  thy  child,  and  touehedst  him.  Thou 
didst  kiss  him,  and  yet,  revealed* t.  not  thyself  io  me  !  What 
hast  thou  done  ?  Oh.  Guido !  Guido  !  never  shall  I  see 
thee  more !  "  She  sumptuously  interred  his  body ;  and 
bewailed  his  decease  for  many  days.  (35) 


My  heloved,  the  knight  represents  Christ ;  the  wife  is 
the  soul,  and  Tyrius  is  man  in  general.  The  weasel  typi- 
fies John  and  the  other  prophets,  who  predicted  the  coming 
of  Christ.  The  mountain  is  tho  world.  The  dead  dragon 
is  the  old  law,  and  the  tiv;i«iiiv  within  it  is  tho  ten  com- 
mandments. The  sword  is  authority  ;  the  king's  daughter, 
the  Virgin  Mary.  The  seven  sons  of  Plebeus  are  seven 
mortal  sins  ;  the  fisherman  is  the  Holy  Ghost. 


TALE  CLXXIII. 

OF   THE   BURDENS    OF   THIS    LIFE, 

A  certain  king  once  went  to  a  fair,*  and  took  with  him  a 
preceptor  and  his  scholar.  Standing  in  tho  market-place, 
they   perceived    eight    packages    exposed    for   sale.       The 


ja  accruing  to  tho  crown  of  England  from 

the  fair  of  Saint  Botolph,  at  Boston  in  Lincolnshire,  within  the 
HoNOEBOfRkti'i'isk  menlion  is  madonl'  the  royal  pavilion,  or  booth, 
which  stood  in  the  fair,  about  tho  year  1280.  This  fair  was  regularly 
frequented  by  merchants  from  tut  im  -I  MtpiM  tmd&g  towns  of  Nor. 
mandy,  Germany,  Flanders,  and  other  countries." — VJkKKW,, 


3S4  GESTA  ROMANOBUM. 

scholar  questioned  his  teacher  respecting  the  first  of  them. 
"Prav,"  said  he,  "  what  in  (he  price  of  poverty — tost  in, of 
tribulation  for  the  love  of  God?" 

Preceptor.  The  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Scholar.  It  is  a  great  price  indeed.  Open  the  second 
package,  and  let  us  see  what  it  contains. 

Preceptor.  It  contains  meekness :  blessed  are  the  meek. 

Scholar.  Meekness,  indeed,  is  a  very  illustrious  thing, 
and  worthy  of  divine  majesty.     What  is  its  price? 

Preceptor.  Gold  shall  not  be  given  for  it ;  nor  iWI 
silver  bu  weighed  against  it.  I  demand  earth  for  it  j  and 
nothing  but  earth  will  I  receive. 

Scholar.  Tboreisaspacious  tract  of  uninhabited  conntry 
between  India  and  Britain.  Take  as  much  of  it  as  y« 
please. 

Preceptor.  No ;  this  land  is  the  land  of  the  dying,  the 
land  which  devours  if*  inhabitants.  Men  die  there.  I 
demand  the  land  of  the  living. 

Scholar.  I  muse  at  what  you  say.  All  die,  and  would 
you  alone  be  exempt  ?  Would  you  livo  for  over?  Behold, 
blessed  are  the  meek,  for  they  shall  inherit  the  Kabtu. 
What  is  there  in  the  third  package? 

Preceptor.  Hunger  and  thirst. 

Scholar.  For  how  much  may  these  be  purchased? 

Preceptor.  For  righteousness.  Blessed  are  they  wh" 
hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness,  for  they  shall  be  filled. 

Scholar.  Therefore  you  shall  ptosis*  righteousness,  pro- 
vided there  be  no  neglect.    What  does  the  fourth  contain' 

Preceptor.  Tears,  wailings,  and  woe  ; 

Moisture  above,  and  moisture  below. • 

Scholar.  It  is  not,  customary  to  buy  tears  and  wniliiip. 
yet  Iwill  buy  it;  because  the  saints  desire  it  at  thispriw 
Blessed  arc  t.hev  who  mourn,  for  they  shall  be  ooniforteA 
What  is  the  filth  package  ? 

Preceptor.  It  is  a  precious  thing,  and  contains  iwrcj, 
which  I  will  weigh  to  please  you.  At  a  word,  I  will  Uk* 
mercy  for  mercy,  eternity  for  time. 

Scholar,  You  were  a  had  umpire  to  ask  this,  md* 
mercy  should    plead   for  you.      Nevertheless,  she  shall 


OF  THE  BURDENS  OF   THIS  LIFE.  335 

become  your  surety.  And  blessed  are  the  merciful,  for 
they  shall  obtain  mercy.  In  this  lite  we  abound  in  poverty 
and  wretchedness  and  hardship.  Undo  the  sixth  package  ; 
perhaps  it  may  contain  something  better. 

Preceptor.  It  is  clearly  full ;  but  it  loves  not,  like  a 
purple  robe,  to  be  exposed  before  the  common  eye ;  you 
shall  see  it  in  private,  and  there  we  will  agree  about  the 
price. 

Scholar.  Very  well ;  what  is  it  ? 

Preceptor.  Purity  ;  which  is  extremely  valuable.  There 
are  gold  and  silver  vases,  namely,  piety,  goodness,  charity, 
and  spiritual  joy.  Now,  then,  let  us  open  these  precious 
garments.  Here  are  lectures,  meditations,  prayers,  and 
contom|>UtionB.  The  judgments  of  the  Lord  are  justified 
in  themselves,  and  more  to  be  desired  than  gold  and 
precious  stones. 

Scholar.  There  is  a  great  reward  in  the  possession. 
Ask,  therefore,  what  ye  will. 

Preceptor.  To  see  God. 

Scholar.  Therefore,  blessed  aro  the  pure  in  heart,  for 
they  shall  see  God.     Open  the  seventh  package. 

Preceptor.  It  contains  peace. 

Scholar.  "What !  are  you  going  to  «H  me  your  peace? 

Preceptor.  It  does  not  accord  with   my  poverty,  nor 

uld  it  with  your  justice  and  great  wealth,  to  take  any- 
thing of  me  for  nothing.  But  your  liberality  will  make 
me  rich.  What  then  ?  I  am  a  mean  country  follow,  and 
mado  of  clay  ;  formed  of  the  very  dust  of  the  earth.  My 
want  of  nobility  oppresses  me,  and  I  would  no  longer  bear 
the  reproach  which  says,  "  Yon  are  earth,  and  to  earth  you 
shall  go."  I  would  rather  have  it  said  to  mo,  "  You  are 
heaven,  and  to  heaven  you  shall  go."  I  eagerly  desire  to 
fulfil  the  destiny  of  the  sons  of  God ;  I  would  become  a 
<¥tn  of  God. 

Scholar.  I  have  done  :  I  confess  the  truth,  and  distrust 
you  no  longer.  Blessed  are  the  peace-makers,  for  they 
shall  be  called  the  sons  of  God.  If,  therefore,  you  preserve 
the  love  of  a  son,  you  shall  receive  the  paternal  inheritance. 
Now,  what  ia  contained  in  the  last  package?    Explain  it. 

Preceptor.  It  contains  only  tribulation  and  persecution 
for  the  sake  of  righteousness. 


they 
woul. 


i  GESTA  ROMANORUM. 

Scholar.  And  what  do  you  want  for  it  ? 

Preceptor.  The  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Scholar.  I  gave  you  that  as  the  price  of  poverty ! 

Preceptor.  True;  but  month  after  month,  week  after 
week,  man  wanders  in  his  wishes.  You  are  mistaken ;  I 
ask  this  for  the  present  week  or  month  ;  as  to  the  future  I 
wait  humbly. 

Scholar.  I  marvel  at  your  sagacity  in  making  a  bargain. 
Now  hear,  good  and  faithful  servant!  because  thou  hast 
been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  appoint  thee  lord 
over  many  :  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  lord.* 


tiee  lord 
'UDE. 


TALE  CLXXIV. 

OF  NATURE  AND  THE  RETURNS  OF  INGRATIT 
An  emperor  rode  out  in  the  afternoon  to  hunt.  Happen- 
ing to  pass  a  certain  wood,  he  heard  a  serpent,  which  some 
shepherds  had  caught  and  bound  firmly  to  a  tree,  making 
a  most  horrible  clamour.  Moved  by  pity,  he  loosed  it, 
and  warmed  its  frozen  body  in  his  own  bosom.  No  sooner, 
however,  did  the  animal  find  itself  recovered,  than  it 
began  to  bite  its  Ix-nefuotor.  and  siu.it  h  Hood  of  poison  into 
the  wound.  "What  hast  thou  done  V  "said  the  emperor. 
"  "Wherefore  have  you  rendered  evil  for  good  ? "  The  ser- 
pent, like  the  ass  of  Balaam,  being  (suddenly  endowed  with 
voice,  replied,  "  The  propensities  which  nature  has  im- 
planted no  one  can  destroy.  You  have  done  what  you 
could;  and  I  have  only  acted  according  to  my  nature. 
You  exhibited  towards  me  all  the  kindness  in  your  power, 
and  I  have  recompensed  you  as  well  as  I  might.  I  offered 
poison,  because,  except  poison,  I  had  nothing  to  offer. 
Moreover,  I  am  an  enemy  to  man ;  for  through  him  I 
became  punished  with  a  curse."  As  they  thus  contended, 
they  entreated  a  philosopher  to  judge  between  them,  and 

*  Thia  i»  a  curious  instance  of  the  onoa  Bwhtottsbk  pmotie 
f"rduK  (jverytli i ii.lt  in i ■  ■  iiJ J-.-l." u-y.      Nut  runny  wiild  Lave  hit  u] 
odd  an   invention.     It  imiy  U-  tlmnfslit   i)mt   the  preceptor  . 
disrijAc  should  change  places  in  the  dialogue. 


>  rue  i  ice  ei 
lit  upon  gn 
t  and  hi* 


OF   THF.    WORLDS   WONDERS.  33" 

to  state  which  was  in  tne  wrong.  "  I  know  these  matters," 
answered  the  umpire,  "only  by  your  relation  ;  but  I  should 
like  to  see  the  thing  itself  upon  which  I  am  to  pronounce 
judgment.  Let  the  serpent,  therefore,  he  hound  to  the 
tree,  as  he  was  iu  the  first  instance,  and  let  my  lord  the 
emperor  remain  unbound  ;  I  shall  then  determine  the 
matter  between  you."  This  was  dune  accordingly.  "  Now 
you  are  bound,"  said  the  philosopher.  ;iddivssnig  theserpent, 
"  loose  yourself  if  you  can."  "  I  cannot,''  said  the  serpent ; 
"I  am  bound  so  fast  that  I  can  scarcely  move."  "  Then 
die,"  rejoined  the  philosopher,  "  by  a  just  sentence.  You 
were  always  ungrateful  to  man.  and  you  always  will  be. 
My  lord,  you  are  now  free ;  shake  the  venom  from  your 
bosom,  and  go  your  way  :  do  not  repeat  your  folly.  Re- 
member that  the  serpent  is  only  influenced  by  his  natural 
propensities."  The  emperor  thanked  the  philosopher  for 
his  assistance  and  advice,  and  departed.*  (36) 

APPLICATION, 

My  beloved,  the  emperor  is  any  good  ecclesiastic,  the 
wood  is  the  world,  and  the  serpent  is  the  devil.     The 

shepherds  are  the  prophets,  patriarchs,  Christian  preachers, 
&c.     The  philosopher  is  a  discreet  confessor. 


TALE  CLXXV. 

OF    THE    WORLD'S    WONDERS. 

Pliny  says  that  there  are  certain  men  who  have  the  heads 
of  dogs ;  who  bark  when  they  converse,  and  elotho  them- 
selves in  the  skins  of  animals.  (37)  These  represent, 
preachers,  who  ought  to  he  coarsely  clad,  as  an  example  to 
others. — Also  in  India  there  are  men  who  possess  a  single 
eye.  which  is  placed  in  the  forehead. t  They  live  upon  the 
flesh  of  animals.    These  are  they  who  have  the  eye  of  reason. 

*  This  fable  is  in  Alphonsua,  Dn  Ctericali  Disciplinn. 

t  "  And  in  '.me  '.■!'  Uii'-c  i^l.'r-  arc  mtii  tliut  biivu  but  one  eve.,  ami 
that  is  in  tht  mi dili' si  of  tln-ir  fpmt,  mid  they  eat  their  £ 
fish  all  raw."— Masdevilz;  and  Pliny,  lib.  vii.  C,  2. 


GESTA   ROMANORL'M. 

In  Africa  there  are  women  without  heads,  having  eyei 
and  mouth  in  their  breasts.*  Such  are  like  humble  men. 
— In  the  East,  over  against  the  terrestrial  Paradise,  are 
people  who  never  eat,  and  whose  mouth  is  so  small  that 
what  they  drink  is  conveyed  into  the  stomach  by  means 
of  a  reed.  They  live  upon  the  odour  of  apples  and  flowers; 
and  a  bad  smell  instantly  destroys  them.t  These  desig- 
nate abstemious  men  ;  and  to  die  of  an  ill  odour  is  to  die 
of  sin. — There  are  men  without  a  nose,  but  otherwise  with 
complete  faces ;  and  whatsoever  they  see  they  think  good.J 
Such  are  the  foolish  of  the  world. — And  there  are  some 
whose  nose  and  lower  lip  is  so  long,  that  it  covers  all  the 
face,  while  they  sleep. §  These  are  just  men. — In  Scjthia 
are  men  with  ears  that  completely  envelop  their  whale 
body.||  These  represent  such  as  listen  to  the  word  of  God. 
— Some  men  there  are  who  walk  like  cattle,?  and  these 

*  "  And  in  another  isle  ore  men  that  have  no  heads,  and  their 
eyes  are  in  their  shoulders,  and  their  mouth  ia  in  their  breast."— 
MasdeviLe:  see  also  Puny,  and  Tiirkhh  Tales,  vol.  ii.  page  303. 

t  In  the  utmost  marshes  of  Iinlm.  eastward,  about  the  source  anil 
head  of  the  river  Gauge?,  there  is  r,  nation  called  the  Astomes,lor 
they  have  no  mouths:  all  liniije  over  the  whole  bodie,  jet  clothd 
with  the  soft  iv'l.mu  ami  ilnwiu:  that  come  from  the  leaves  of  trc«; 
they  livo  only  by  the  aire,  and  smelling  v>  meet  odours,  which  the» 
draw  in  at  their  nose  thrills.  No  meat  nor  drink  they  take,  onelj 
pleasant  savours  from  divers  and  sundrie  roc*-    " 


take,  on* 
l  and  «ilil 


they  would  not  nurse  their  smelling.  And  yet  if  the  scent  ba  any 
thing  strong  and  stinking,  they  are  sorrae  therewith  overcome,  and 
die  withal."— P.  Holland's  Trans],  of  Pliny's  Nit.  But. 

To  this  an',  .nut  Sir  Julm  Maude  vile  adds,  that  "  they  ore  not  reason 
able,  but  as  wild  as  beasts,"  p.  121.  He  calls  the  place  of  their 
residence  Pit  an. 

t  "  And  in  another  isle  are  men  that  have  flat  facea  without  aoM, 
and  without  eyes— but  they  have  two  small  round  holes  instead  of 
eyes,  and  they  have  tint-  iu"u1iii  without  lips." — Manp. 

g  "And  ifi  another  isle  are  foul  men,  that  have  their  lips  aboti  I 
iiieir  nil  mill  so  grunt,  that  when  they  sleep  in  the  sun,  they  cover  oil 
their  face  with  their  lips." — Mand. 

||  "  And  in  another  isle  are  wild  men  with  hanging  ears,  who 
have  feet  like  a  horse,"  &c. — Mamj.  "And  some  again  that  wilb 
their  ears  cover  their  whole  bodie."— Pl in v,  lib.  vii.  o.  2. 

1  "  And  in  another  isle  are  men  Hint  :ro  u|>on  their  hands  and  ftft 
'.ike  beasts,  and  are  all  rough,  and  will  leup  Upon  a  tree  likeoatt  a 
*>pes."— Mand. 


OF  THE  WORLD'S  WONDERS.  339 

are  they  who  honour  neither  God  nor  His  saints. — There 
are  likewise  people  who  are  homed,  having  short  noses 
and  the  feet  of  a  goat.*  These  are  the  proud. — lu 
.Ethiopia  are  men  with  hut  one  leg,  whose  velocity  Dover- 
theless  is  such,  that  they  run  down  the  swiftest  animal. f 
These  are  the  charitable. — In  India  are  pygmies  two 
cubits  long;  they  ride  upon  goats,  and  make  war  against 
the  eranes.f  These  arc  they  who  begin  well,  but  eeaae 
before  they  are  perfect. — In  India  there  are  also  men  who 
possess  six  hands.  They  are  without  clothes,  but  are 
extremely  hairy,  and  dwell  in  rivers.  These  are  the 
zealous  workers  who  labour  and  obtain  etiTiinl  life. — There, 
too,  are  men  who  have  six  fingers  on  each  hand,  and  six 
toes  on  each  foot ;  §  during  the  week  they  keep  themsolves 

*  "And  tiere  is  id  that  wilderntis-  ninny  wild  men  with  horns  on 
their  heads,  very  hideous,  and  t  In  y  ?|ii-ak  not." — Mand. 

f  "In  Ethiope  Hindi  nii'ii  as  lisivr  I  nit  one  fool,  mid  they  go  so  fast 
that  it  ia  u  great  marvel :  mid  that  is  a  lnrjre  foot,  for  tko  shadow 
thereof  coverolii  (in-  body  from  sun,  or  ruin,  w  hen  they  lie  upon  their 
hacks;  and  when  their  children  are  lirst  horn,  tliey  look  like  russet, 
but  when  they  wax  old,  thoy  bo  all  black." — MaKD. 

Pliny  calls  these  people  BoiOfoiwa. 

J  "Higher  in  the  couutroy,  and  above  tin  so,  even  in  the  ed^e  and 
skirts  of  tins  niountaiin.'s,  tlie  F>/'jmti:i  tij/ijthaiiiei  are  r. 'ported  to  bee  : 
called  they  are  hi,  for  that  tliey  are  lull  u  cnlnte  or  throe  shnf  fluents 
(or  spnllnes)  hiL-li,  I  but  is  to  say,  I  hieo  tinn-s  nine  i  indies.  The  clilue 
wheriu  tliey  dwell  is  very  wholesome,  (lie  aire  henlthie,  and  ever  liku 
to  the  tempera t mo  of  the  spring ;  by  reason  that  the  niountaines  art 
on  the  north  side  of  them,  and  lieare  oft'  all  oold  blasts.  And  these 
pretie  people,  Homer  als"  Imth  reported  to  be  much  troubled  and 
anuoied  by  cranes.  The  speoch  gooth,  that  in  the  spring  time  they 
set  out  all  of  them  in  battel  array,  mount,  d  upon  the  buck  of  rammes 
and  goats,  armed  with  bowes  and  arrowes,  and  so  dowue  to  the  sea- 
side they  march,  where  thoy  nukr  fonl  w.irkc  niLioo^e  the  egjits  and 
young  oranelings  newly  hatched,  which  tiiey  destroy  without  all  pitie. 
rl'kus  for  three  moucths  this  their  journey  mid  i  xpodii.ion  eontimicth. 
and  then  they  make  an  end  of  their  valiant  service:  lor  otherwise  if 
they  should  continue  any  longer,  they  were  never  able  to  withstand 
the  new  flights  of  this  fuule,  growne  to  some  strength  and  bignessc. 
As  for  their  houses  and  cottages,  made  thev  are  of  clay  or  mud,  fouls 
feathers,  and  birds  egge  shells.  Howbcit  Aristotle  writeth,  that 
these  Pvi^mieans  live  in  hollow  eaves  and  boles  under  the  ground." — 
lh,lhnuV*}>liny. 

Addison  has  written  a  Latin  poem  upon  this  subject,  and  Dr. 
Beattie  has  translated  if  into  very  elegant  lluglish  verse. 

|  "And  in  another  isle  arc  men  that  go  ever  on  their  bands 
marvellously,  and  tliey  have  on  every  foot  eight  toes." — Wvsu. 


3+0 


GEKTA    ROMAXniil."M. 


pure,  and  on  the  seventh  day  sanctify  themselves. — Certain 
women  there  are  bearded  to  the  breast ;  but  their  heads 
are  totally  bare.*  These  represent  men  who  obey  the 
Church,  aDd  are  turned  from  that  course  neither  by  love 
nor  by  hatred. — In  Ethiopia  there  are  men  with  four  eyes 
each.f  These  are  they  who  fear  God,  the  world,  the  devil, 
and  the  flesh.  They  turn  one  eye  to  God,  to  live  well ; 
another  to  the  world,  to  flee  from  it ;  a  third  to  the  devil, 
to  resist  him  ;  and  the  last  to  the  flesh,  to  chastise  it.— Li 
Europe  are  very  beautiful  men;  but  they  have  a  crane's  head, 
and  neck,  and  beak.J  These  designate  judges,  who  ought 
to  have  long  necks  and  lieaks,  in  order  that  what  the  heart 
tiiinig  may  be  long  be/ore  it  reach  the  mou(a.§  If  all  judges 
were  thus  we  should  have  fewer  injudicious  awards. 


TALE  CLXXVL 

OF   SPIRITUAL    MEDICINE. 

There  was  a  male  child  born,  divided  from  the  navel  up- 
ward. Thus  he  had  two  heads  and  breasts,  and  a  proper 
number  of  sensitive  faculties  to  each.  While  one  slept 
or  eat,  the  other  did  neither.  After  two  years,  one  part 
of  the  boy  died,  and  the  other  survived  about  three  days.| 


*  In  thia  country  . 


n  shave  their  heads,  a 


+  ''The  region  above  Sirbithim,  where  the  mountains  doc  end.  is 
reported  to  have  upon  the  sea-coast  certains  .Ethiopians  called 
N'isicnstes  and  Nisites,  that  !s  to  say,  men  with  throe  or  fonr  eiee 
apcece;  not  for  that  they  are  so  eied  indeed,  but  because  they  are 
cicellent  archers."— Puny.  Xat.  Ilirt.  lib.  vi.  o.  30. 

I  "He  and  his  subjects  Lire  not  1  i k ■  ■  us,  men  without  heads :  thf¥ 
have  hepds  like  tlm.-p  of  Unit;  and  their  voice  go  exactly  rescniMi  ■ 
the  voice  »f  bird:-,  rhui.  m  Jn.-n  any  one  of  them  arrives  in  our  island. 

we  take  bim  for  :l  \Y;Lier-fowl  uiiil  tat  him with  all  the  sevend 

nances  witli  which  men  are  wont  to  eat  wild  -fowl."— TurlU.h  IWM 
vol.  ii.  p.  3tH. 

§  Excellent  doctrine ! 

II  Braooiolinua,  or  flrandiolinua  Poggras,  a  Florentine,  wbo 
fliiiirisliefl  in  the  loth  century,  hus  given  an  account  of  the  monsier 
here  alluded  to.     I  quote  the  translation  of  his  fables,  of  1658 : — 

"Also  within  a,  little  while  after  it  befell  out  about  the  in 


OF    SPIRITUAL   MEDICINE.  341 

Also,  as  Pliny  records,  there  was  a  tree  in  India  whose 
flowers  had  a  sweet  smell,  and  its  fruit  a  delightful  flavour. 
A  serpent,  called  Jacorlus,  which  dwelt  near,  had  a  great 
aversion  to  the  odour,  and  that  he  might  destroy  its  pro- 
ductiveness envenomed  the  root  of  the  tree.  The  gardener, 
observing  what  was  done,  took  an  antidote  of  that  country, 
and  inserted  it  in  a  branch  at  the  top  of  the  tree,  which 
presently  drove  the  poison  from  the  root.  The  tree,  before 
barren,  was  now  loaded  with  fruit. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  child  represents  the  soul  and  body  of 
man.  The  tree  is  also  man  ;  the  fruit,  good  works.  The 
serpent  is  the  devil ;  and  the  gardener  is  God.  The 
branch  is  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary  ;— so  Isaiah,  "  A  branch 
shall  spring  from  the  root  of  Jesse."  And  thus  also 
Virgil,  in  the  second  of  his  Bucolics.* 

"Jam  tedit  et  vir^'ti  redeunt  satiirnia  regna: 
Jam  nova  progenies  cuilo  dimittitur  alto. 
Ta  moifo  jni*«rm/i"+   [Hiciu,  quo  ft-rrmi  primnm, 
Deshiet,  et  J  to  to  surgct  gens  aurea  mundo." 

In  this  branch  was  plarud  the  antidote,  that  is,  Christ. 


i  another.  Of  the  whk-ti  child  tidings  came  unit' 
\u>.-.  fii-i^'iii  in  fuge  at  Rome." 

*  The  reader  will  In:  ^urpi  i-i;d  to  meet  with  a  quotation  from 
Virgil  in  thia  place.  It  i.-.  moat  probftMe,  from  its  corruptness,  that 
the  [ju«siLf,ri;  wan  lint  driiwii  iiniiLi  .li.itilv  from  the  poet 

t  The  true  reading  is — 


Casta  fave  Lucina."— Eel.  iv.  line  10. 
IB  it  stands  above;  but  the  editior  of  1521,  18mo,  i. 


GESTA    ROMAXGKL'M. 


TALE    CLXXVII. 

OF   FEBSECDTION.* 

Kind  Asuerus  made  a  great  feast  to  all  the  princes  of  his 
kingdom.  Ho  commanded  the  queen,  Vasti,  to  appear  at 
the  festival,  that  his  people  might  behold  the  splendour 
of  thut  beauty  which  he  had  raised  to  the  throne.  Wltffl 
she  refused  to  come  in,  the  king  deprived  her  of  her 
loyalty,  and  raised  Hester  to  the  Tank  of  queen  in  her 
stead.  After  thin  (In-  king  promoted  a  certain  Ainan,  and 
made  all  the  princes  of  his  empire  pay  him  homage.  Tbey 
complied;  hut  Mardocheiis,  the  king's  uncle,  would  not 
honour  him.  Enraged  sit  thin  disregard  of  his  authority, 
Aman  dolivorcd  him  to  death,  with  all  his  family,  and 
made  an  ordinance  under  the  royal  seal  to  exterminate 
every  Jew  in  the  kingdom;  and  const  rneting  a  high  ^ilik-tt 
In-  i-i'M>lvcd  ilini.  M:ii'iloi-lii-n.-i  slmnlil  lie  lask-ned  upon  it. 
But,  in  the  mean  time,  it  was  the  fortune  of  the  latter  to 
discover  two  traitors  who  had  conspired  to  kill  the  king: 
and  immediately  giving  such  information  as  led  to  their 
apprehension,  ho  was  clothed  in  a  purple  robe  and  crowned, 
and  rode  on  a  royal  steed  through  the  city,  while  Aman, 
with  all  his  knights,  were  reduced  to  the  necessity  of 
extolling  liirn.f  When  this  was  done,  Mardocheus  related 
to  the  queen  that  Aman  intended  to  put  all  their  nati"Ti 
to  death ;   wherefore  she  proclaimed  a   fast,  and  afflicted 

*  Then  io  a  metrical  romance  on  this  subject;  and  Thomw '■' 
I'lliiiliiusi,  a  i-livniiu'li'i.  imIIs  tin-  C'>nmaU"[i  icust  «f  King  Ilt-nrv  I-"1 
MUli  n  MVtul  least  .if  Alms  Herns.  "Hence  ulsn  t'tiaiicur's  iilln*-,!' 
at  the  marridivo  ,'t"  January  niiil  May.  wiii  [,.  they  art-  a  I  the  solemn'1! 
of  the  wintiiia-  lUtiui'T.  nhii'U  is  very  splendid: — 
'Queen  Esther  looked  ne'er  with  such  an  eye 
On  Absuotb,  so  meek  a  look  bath  she '  (March.  TaU,  v.  1261))." 

t  ["  Altum  eresit  cmlrHm."  Swan  translated  ecaZmi»  "rtti- 
which  would  it»|iretst-ut  fairly,  tliousli  by  no  means  accurately,  ll* 
uieiiuius  of  tlie  term  in  classical  Latin.  Bat  in  the  Miililic  A-'" 
il  tut-Aii t  a  gibbtl,  "Equuleos,  parrhitum,  furen  coi  dewlUUt»0 
niartyrum  ctiiliivera  affigvbant  "  (Do  Cange).— En.] 

J  This  is  dividttily  na  Eastern  custom.  See  the  AiaUai  Til** 
Ac.  [Hiisiw. 


OF   FORETHOUGHT. 

herself  with  fasting  and  prayer.  She  then  made  a  great 
feast,  to  which  she  invited  the  king  and  Araan.  First 
imploring  the  life  of  her  people,  «he  explained  how  the 
latter  had  condemned  all  to  death.  Full  of  indignation, 
the  king  ordered  him  to  be  fixed  upon  the  same  gibbet 
which  he  had  prepared  for  MardoeheiiB,  who  succeeded  to 
all  his  honours.  Thus,  by  the  disposing  hand  of  Provi- 
dence, the  innocent  people  were  freed,  and  the  generation 
of  the  wicked  utterly  exterminated.* 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  Christ ;  and  the  queen  is  the 
soul.  Aman  represents  the  .Jewish  people,  who  seek  to 
destroy  the  Church.  The  two  traitors  are  the  Jew  and 
the  Gentile. 


TALE  CLXXVIII. 

OF   FORETHOUGHT. 

A  certain  king  was  desirous  of  ascertaining  the  best 
mode  of  governing  himself  and  his  empire.  He  therefore 
called  to  him  one  more  excellent  in  wisdom  than  the  rest, 
and  required  of  him  to  impart  some  rule  by  which  he 
might  attain  his  wishes.  "  Willingly,  my  lord,"  replied 
he;  and  immediately  upon  a  wall  he  depicted  the  king, 
crowned,  sitting  on  a  throne  and  habited  in  a  purple  robe. 
His  left  hand  supported  a  globe,  while  liis  right  held  a 
sceptre ;  above  his  head  was  a  light  burning.  On  the  left 
wan  the  queen,  crowned  also,  find  elud  in  golden  vesture. 
The  other  si ile.  was  occupied  by  ciiunsel  Ws  seated  in  chairs, 
and  before  them  an  open  book.  In  front  of  these  was  an 
armed  knight  mi  burse-hack,  having  a  helmet  on  hie  head, 
and  a  lance  in  his  right  hand.     The  shield  covered  him  on 

*  One  won lil  nniieiiii-  that,  the  sl.r.ry  ef  MnrnVrai  could  never  luivi- 
bi'f'ti  actually  mul  l.y  t lu-  nutimr  !■!'  tin.-  t:i!<' ;  il.  «n»  us  if  a  Hon  ting 
imilition  hiul  Vn'cii  muijlit  uu  and  wurk.  <1  into  tin-  u[ml.iKui-  of  .Vnnrn- 

rjunu.     The  latter  num.;  if  I  im-k,  mul 'iir.-i  in   the  ri].<.ierv liliat  mu- 

tinuation  of  the  Book  of  EHther. 


I 


8M  GESTA   ROMANORUM. 

the  left,  and  a  sword  hung  by  hia  side.*  His  body  »  ■ 
eased  in  mail,  having  clasps  t  upon  the  breast.  Irt'/i 
greaves  |jii.itui.:li'tl  his  legs  .  spurs  wiiii:  upon  his  heels,  lill-t 
iron  ■gauntlets  on  his  hanila.  His  horse,  practised  in  war, 
was  gorgeously  trapped.  Beneath  the  king  were  his 
deputies;  line,  jus  an  equestrian  knight,  iu  eloak  and  mp 
"1'  parti-col  on  red  skins.  Ix-aring  an  extended  rod  iu  bis 
right  hand.  The  people  stood  before  the  deputies  in  the 
form  following: — One  man  carried  a  apade  in  hia  right 
hand,  wherewith  he  W»8  digging,  and  in  hia  left  a  rud, 
with  whieh  he  directed  the  motions  of  a  herd.  In  his 
girdle  hung  a  sickle,  with  which  corn  is  cut  and  vines 
and  other  trees  pruned.  To  the  right  of  the  king  a  car- 
penter was  painted  before  a  knight;  one  hand  bora  » 
mallet,  and  the  other  an  adze ;  in  his  girdle  was  a  tiuird. 
Also,  before  the  people  stood  a  man  having  a  pair  t>f 
pincers  in  one  hand,  and  in  the  other  a  huge  eword ;  «'itli 
a  note-book  and  a  bottle  of  ink  in  his  girdle,  a  pen  stuck 
in  bis  right  ear.  Moreover,  in  the  same  part  of  the  paint- 
ing was  a  man  bearing  a  balance  and  weights  in  his  right 
hand,  and  an  ell-wand  in  his  left;  a  puree  containing 
various  kinds  of  money  bung  at  his  girdle. 

Before  the  queen  wen;  physicians  and  colour  men  nnJ'-'f 
this  form.  A  man  was  placed  in  a  mantel's  chair  with  * 
hook  in  his  light  hand,  and  an  urn  and  box  in  hie  left ; 
an  instrument  for  probing  sores  and  wounds  was  in  hi» 
girdle.  Near  him  stood  another,  with  hie  right  hied 
elevated  to  invite  the  passengers  to  his  inn  ;  his  lefi  «'*' 
full  of  exceedingly  fair  bread  ;  and  above  stood  a  ves«' 
full  of  wine  :  his  girdle  held  a  bunch  of  keys.  Also  oil  the 
left  side,  before  a  knight,  was  a  man  with  large  keys  ;" 
hia  right  hand,  and  an  ell-wand  iu  hia  left;  at  hit;  girdle 
was  a  purse  tilled  with  pennies.  Before  the  king.  :!>"■ 
was  a  man  with  nigged  and  disorderly  hair  ;  in  hi»  n^il 
hand  was  a  little  money,  and  three  dice  were  in  hifl  l«'i 
his  girdle  held  a  box  full  of  letters.  "When  the  kins  ^1'1 
aitentively  considered  this  picture,  ho  found  it  replete*'1'1 
wisdom. 

*  "  Enaeni  in  deifera,"  flays  the  orininal ;  but  he  could  not  W 
Loth  la  act  and  meonl  in  the  sunn-  hand  at  once, 
■f  "  Fibulas  in  puctore,"— weaninj;  kitubt  perhaps. 


OF   GLUTTONY    AND    !>RU.\  Lvi-:_\_\KSS. 


APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  tlie  king  is  any  good  Christian,  or  rather 
prelate ;  and  he  is  clothed  in  purple  to  figure  the  beauty 
of  virtue.  The  globe  and  sceptre  are  symbols  of  power. 
The  burning  light  signifies  a  threat.  The  queen  is  charity. 
The  counsellors  or  judges  are  prelates  and  preachers,  and 
the  books  before  them  the  Sacred  Writings.  The  armed 
knight  is  a  good  Christian  armed  with  virtues.  The  other 
knight  rides  the  horse  of  Justice,  wearing  the  cloak  of 
Mercy,  and  the  cap  of  Faith.  The  extended  rod  is 
equal  distribution  of  right — et  tie  de  cmleria. 


TALE  CLXXIX. 

OF  GLUTTONY  AND  DHUNKENNESS. 

Cesarius,*  speaking  of  the  detestable  vices  of  gluttony  and 
drunkenness,  says  that  the  throat  is  the  must  intemperate 
and  seductive  part  of  the  whole  body.  Its  daughters  are 
uncleanness,  buffoonery,  foolish  joy,  loquaciousness,  and 
dulness.  It  has  15  vi  ■  grades  of  sin.  The  first  is,  to  inquire 
for  high-seasoned  and  delicate  food ;  the  second,  to  dress 
it  curiously;  the  third,  to  take  it  he  fore  there  is  occasion  ; 
the  fourth,  to  take  it  too  greedily ;  and  the  fifth,  in  too 
large  a  quantity.  The  first  man,  Adam,  was  conquered 
by  gluttony  ;  and  for  this  Esau  gave  away  his  birth-right. 
This  excited  tin:  people  of  Sodom  to  sin,  and  overthrew 
the  children  of  Israel  in  the  wilderness.  So  the  Psalmist, 
■•  While  the  meat  was  yet  in  their  mouths,  the  anger  of 
God  came  upon  them."  The  iniquity  of  Sodom  aroso  in 
its  superabundance ;  and  the  man  of  God,  who  was  sent 

*  "Cesariua,  I  suppose,  is  a  Cistercian  monk  of  the  thirteenth 
century;  who  besides  voliiiniumis  lives,  I'hrumclcs,  and  homilies, 
wrote  twelve  bouks  on  tho  niiinelus,  visum.',  uiid  examples  of  his  own 
age.  But  there  is  another  and  an  nidi  i  Tuordii-h  writer  of  tli 
name.  In  tli«  British  .Miisuin,  there  is  a  nu-riutive  takei 
CeBariuB,  in  old  northern  English,  i.fs  lady  deceived  by  fiends, 
devil,  thro'  the  pride  of  rieh  clothing." — Wabtok, 


31«  OESTA  BOJtaXOBUX. 

to  Bethel,  was  slain  by  a  lion  in  consequence  of  indulging 
his  appetite.  Dives,  of  whom  it  is  said  in  the  Gospel  that 
he  feasted  sumptuously  every  day,  was  buried  in  helL 
Nabusardan,'  the  prince  of  cooks,  destroyed  Jerusalem. 
How  great  the  danger  of  gluttony  is,  let  the  Scriptnres 
testify.    "  Woe  to  the  land,    says  Solomon,  "whose  princes 

■  eat  in  the  morning."  Again,  "  All  the  labour  of  man  in 
the  mouth  will  not  fill  his  soul."  The  daughter  of  glut- 
tony is  drunkenness  ;  for  that  vice  is  the  author  of  luxury 
— the  worst  of  all  plagues.  What  is  there  fouler  than 
this?  What  more  hurtful?  What  sooner  wears  away 
virtue?  Glory  laid  asleep  is  converted  to  madness;  and 
the  strength  of  the  mind,  equally  with  the  strength  of  the 
body,  is  destroyed.  Basilius  says,  "  When  we  serve  the 
belly  and  throat,  we  are  cattle ;  and  study  to  resemble 
brutes  which  are  prone  to  this,  and  made  by  nature  to  look 
upon  the  earth  and  obey  the  belly."  f  Boethius  also,  Dc 
L'onsolaiione,  51,  iv.  :  "He  who  forsakes  virtue  ceases  to 
lie  a  man  ;  and  since  he  cannot  pass  to  the  divine  nature, 
it  remains  that  he  must  become  a  brute."  And  our  Lord, 
in  the  Gospel :  "  Take  heed  lest  your  hearts  bo  hardened 
with  surfeiting  and  drunkenness."  Oh,  how  great  had  been 
the  counsels  of  wisdom,  if  the  heats  of  wine  and  greediness 
interposed  not.  Dangerous  is  it  when  the  father  of  a 
family,  or  the  governor  of  a  state,  is  warm  with  wine,  and 
inSamed  with  anger.  Discretion  is  dimmed,  luxury  is 
excited,  and  lust,  mixing  itself  with  all  kinds  of  wicked- 
neHB,  lulls  prudence  asleep.  Wherefore,  Baid  Ovidius. 
"Wine  produces  lust  if  taken  too  copiously."  Oh,  odious 
vice  of  drunkenness  !  by  which  virginity — the  possession 
of  all  good  things — the  security  of  happiness — is  lost  for 
ever  and  ever.  Noah,  heated  with  wine,  exposed  himself 
to  his  children.     The  most  chaste  Lot,  thrown  by  wine 

•  Nabusardan  wbb  a  general  of  Nabnchodonoeor  II,,  who  besieged 
uad  took  J<-ruMil(>i>i,  a.m.  ;-i'HU  :  but  how  In.  bt-i'auio  l'HlNcl:  dp  CoOKs, 
und  what  part  his  culinary  skill  had  in  thu  tluwniall  of  thu  "rebellious 
city,"  the  writer  of  the  ( insr  must  ciplain. 

t  "  This  is  tho  Bun  lament  of  the.  historian  SilII list,  in  the  opening 
of  thu  Jugurthiiie  «tt, 

"Omuee  uotiiiiiun,  i|iii  sese  student-  u  restarts  cieUTiis  finimalibus, 
6I1IIIIHU  npc  niti  (lci'.-r,  ue  vitani  silenlin  tiiLrtBeutit,  veliLti  peeurar  qua 
natnrii  proua  utyuu  DMM  obcdicuUo.  jiiv«l." 


07  FIDELITY.  347 

into  Bleep,  dill  that  which  was  evil  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord.  We  read  of  men,  who  were  such  firm  friends  that 
each  would  expose  his  life  for  the  other,  becoming  n 
inflamed  with  wine  that  they  slew  one  another.  Herod 
Antipas  had  not  decapitated  (he  holy  John,  if  he  had  kept 
from  the  feast  of  surfeiting  and  drunkenness.  Balthasar. 
kinj;  of  Babylon,  had  not  been  deprived  of  his  Life  and 
throne,  if  he  had  been  sober  on  the  night  in  which  Cyrus 
and  Darius  slew  him,  overpowered  with  wine.*  On  which 
account  the  Apostle  advises  us  to  be  "sober  and  watch." 
Let  us  then  pray  to  the  Lord  to  preserve  us  in  all  sobriety, 
that  we  may  hereafter  be  invited  to  a  feast  in  heaven. 


TALE    CLXXX. 

OF    FIDELITY. 

Paulus,  the  historian  of  the  Longobards,  mentions  a 
certain  Onulphns.  siirnaiuod  I'apien.  a  knight,  who  gavt 
signal  proofs  of  fidelity  to  his  master,  King  Portaticus; 
insomuch  that  lie  exposed  himself  to  death  tor  his  safety. 
For  when  Grimmoah.his,  duke  of  Hen  even  turn,  forcibly 
entered  the  pavilion  of  (iodobert.  king  of  the  Longobards. 
who  had  Leon  treacherously  slain  by  Uoriliahlus.f  duke  of 
Kavenna,  the  first  betrayer  of  a  royal  crown,  Portaticns, 
the  brother  of  the  aforesaid  king  (lodobert,  Hying  to  the 
Hungarians,  was  reconciled  To  (jrimmoaldus  by  tho  knight 
Onulphus,  so  that  without  fear  he  might  quit  Hungary 
nnd  solicit  pardon  at  the  king's  feet.  Thus  his  life  was 
secure,  although  bo  obtained  not  the  regal  dignity  which 
was  his  due.  But  a  few  days  at'ler  this  reconciliation, 
some  malicious  tongues  disponed  (irimmoaldus  to  put  to 
death  Fortatieus.  To  get  rid  of  him  the  more  easily,  and 
prevent   his  seeking  safety  in  flight,  he  commanded   that 

*  DariiiF.  tin;  s»i  rf  J-lyMiisrita,  conquered  TCuoylon.  But  tho  son 
and  grandson  of  tlii*  mniMuvli  mi'  hern  meant. 

+  Ho  is  (tilled  ("iKNEfuii.in. ■■*  here,  ami  iil'trnviinls  GEitiBALtit'S,  in 
all  tin:  live  ditfcrent  editions  I  liuvo  UisptctKd. 


r'Aiti  GESTA  BOMANORUSL 

wine  should  be  served  to  him,  that  he  might  become 
intoxicated.  Onulpbus  hearing  this,  went,  with  his 
squire,  to  the  house  of  Portaticus ;  and  leaving  his 
attendant  in  bed.  concealed  with  the  coverture,  he  led  out 
Fortaticus,  disguised  as  his  squire,  threatening,  and  even 
striking  him,  the  better  to  cover  the  deceit.     Thus  they 

I  passed  through  the  watch,  or  guard,  placed  before  the 
bouse  of  Portaticus,  till  they  reached  the  abode  of  the 
knight,  which  was  built  upon  the  city  walls.  He  then 
hastened  to  let  biin  down  by  a  rope ;  and  catching  certain 
horses  from  the  pasture,  Portaticus  fled  to  the  city  of 
Astensis,  and  from  thence  to  the  king  of  France.  In  the 
morning  Onuiphus  and  hiB  squire  were  brought  before 
the  king,  and  examined  as  to  the  escape  of  their  master. 
They  answered  exactly  as  the  case  was ;  and  Grimnioaldus, 
turning  to  his  counsellors,  said.  "  What  punishment  do 
they  deserve  who  have  done  this,  contrary  to  our  royal 
pleasure?"  All  agreed  that  it  should  be  capital.  Some 
protested  that  they  should  be  flayed  alive;  and  others. 
that  they  should  be  crucified.  "  By  Him  that  made  me." 
replied  the  king,  "  they  are  deserving  of  honour,  not 
death,  for  their  unshaken  fidelity."  Acting  up  to  this 
feeling,  Grimmoaldus  loaded  them  with  favours ;  but 
GerihalduB  the  traitor  was  miserable,  though  justly  shun 
by    the   hand   of  < •  udobert'a  squire,   the    follower   of   him 

Iwhom  he  had  treacherously  deprived  of  life  and  kingdom. 
This  happened  on  the  solemn  festival  of  St.  John  the 
Baptist. 
APPLIC4T10S. 
My  beloved,  the  knight  Onulpbus  is  any  good 
Christian ;  Portaticus  is  the  soul.  Grimmoaldus  typifies 
Christ,  and  Hungary  the  world.  The  horses  taken  from 
the  pasture  are  the  merits  of  martyrs  and  saints ;  Astensia 
is  the  city  in  the  Apocalypse.     France  signifies  heaven. 


OF  ADULTERY.  349 

TALE    CLXXXL 

OF  ADULTERY. 

A  certain  king  had  a  lion,  a  lioness,  and  a  leopard,  whom 
he  much  delighted  in.  During  the  absence  of  the  lion, 
the  lioness  was  unfaithful,  and  colleagued  with  the  leopard ; 
and  that  she  might  prevent  her  mate's  discovery  of  the 
crime,  she  used  to  wash  herself  in  a  fountain  adjoining  the 
king's  castle.  Now,  the  king,  having  often  perceived  what 
was  going  forward,  commanded  the  fountain  to  be  closed. 
This  done,  the  lioness  was  unable  to  cleanse  herself;  and 
the  lion  returning,  and  ascertaining  the  injury  that  had 
been  done  him,  assumed  the  place  of  a  judge — sentenced 
her  to  death,  and  immediately  executed  the  sentence. 

APPLICATION. 

My  beloved,  the  king  is  our  heavenly  Father;  the 
lion  is  Christ;  and  the  lioness,  the  soul.  The  leopard  is  the 
devil,  and  the  fountain  is  confession,  which  being  closed, 
death  presently  follows, 


QESTA    ROMANOni'M. 


Bemarkable  Histories,  from  the 

&e#ta   Ho  man  ovum, 

combined  with  numerous  moral  and  mystic* 

applications,  treating  of  vices  and  virtues. 

Printed    and    diligently   revised,   i 

the  ex  pence  of  that  provident 

and  circumspect  man, 

John  Kynman, 

gaw; 

at  the  workshop  of  llcnry  Gran,  citizen  of  the 

imperial  town  of  Hagenaw.     Concluded 

happily,  in  the  year  of  our 

safety,  one  thousand 

five  hundred 

and  eight : 

March 

the 


NOTES. 

Note  1.    Page  16. 

This  fable  is  very  well  told  by  Gower,  but  with  seme  variations. 

[The  letters  printed  in  Italics  are  to  be  pronounced  as  separate 
syllables ;  the  acute  mark  denotes  the  emphasis.] 

Ere  Rom-«?  came  to  the  creance  l 
Of  Christoa  faith,  it  fell  perchance 
Caesar,  which  then  was  emperour, 
Him  HsW  for  to  do  honour 
Unto*  the  temple  Apollinis ; 
And  made  an  image  upon  this, 
The  which  was  cleped  s  Apollo*, 
Was  none  so  rich  in  Rom-0  the.* 

Of  plate  of  gold,  a  beard  he  had, 
The  which  his  breast  all  over  spradde.4 

Of  gold  also,  withouten  fail, 
His  mantle  was  of  large  entayle,5 
Be-set  with  perrey  tf  all  about. 
Forth  right  he  stretched  his  ringer  out, 
Upon  the  which  he  had  a  ring — 
To  see  it,  was  a  ricW  thing, 
A  fine  carbuncle  for  the  nones/ 
Most  precious  of  all  stones. 

And  fell  that  time  in  Rom-e  thus, 
There  was  a  clerk,  one  Lucius, 
A  courtier,  a  famous  man ; 
Of  every  wit 8  somewhat  he  can, 
Out-take  •  that  him  lacketh  rule, 
His  own  estate  to  guide  and  rule ; 
How  so  it  stood  of  his  speaking, 
He  was  not  wise  in  his  doing ; 
But  every  rioW  at  last 
Must  need-is  fall,  and  may  not  last. 
After  the  need  of  his  desert, 
So  fell  this  clerk-*  in  poveVte, 

1  Belief.  "Called.  «Then.  «Spread. 

"  Cat ;  from  the  French  entailUr.  •  Pearls.  ♦  Purpose* 

*  Knowledge.  •  Except. 


Ant!  wist  nnt  hrw  for  to  rl«e 
Wlmrmif  in  many  a  sundry  wise 
Ht  east  his  wil-e.i  here  and  than, 
He  looketh  nigh,  he  looketh  far. 
Fell  on  i  tim-it  that  hi  coma 
Into  the  temple,  «ad  heed  nome ' 
Whore  that  the  god  Apollo  stood  ; 
He  sow  the  riches,  and  the  good;* 
And  thought  he  wold-e  br 
The» 


«ray, 


,    _   ,o  silly  wrought, 
That  his  purpose  about  he  brought. 
And  wont  away  unnperueLVed  : 
Thus  hath  the 'man  hi-  god.  de.-eivcd— 
His  ring,  his  mantle,  and  Ms  beard, 
As  lie  which  nothing  was  afoard, 
All  privily  with  him  he  bare; 
And  when  the  warden»  were  aware 
Of  that,  their  god  despuilod  in, 
They  thought  it  was  s  wondro 


Ho« 


is  tale  i 


olhel 


is  through  spoken 
Hut  for  tn  know  in  special, 
What  manner  man  hath  done  the  deed, 
They  snughtcn  help  upon  the  need, 
And  inadna  calculation, 
Whereof  by  demonstration 
The  man  was  fuund-e  with  the  good. 
In  judgment,  and  when  ho  stood, 
The  king  hath  asked  of  htm  thin— 
'•  ^ay,  thou  nnsely  '  Lucius, 
Why  hast  thou  done  this  sacrilege  1  " 
"  My  lord,  if  I  the  cause  allege," 
(Quoth  he  again.)  "me-thlnketh  this, 
That  [  have  done  nothing  at  ' 


Threi 


*theri 


hlti 


eof  the  iirst-e  point  stands  i 
That  I  the  ring  have  ta'en  «wav— 
Until  this  point  this  will  I  «ay. 
When  1  the  god  beheld  about, 
I  saw  how  he  his  hand  stretched  out, 
A  in!  pniifi'i-cd  in"  the  ring  tn  yeve  :  * 
Aoii  I,  which  wold-e  gladly  live 
Out  of  [nivorte  thin'  his  largess, 
It  tindrrfnug,1  !D  that  I  guesi  j 


5  Accepted. 


And  therefore,  a 


To  clothen  him  the  I 


And  thus  thinking  thought-*»  fele  * 
A»  [  mine  eye  about-*  cast, 
liis  larg-e  beard-e  then  at  last 
I  sow;  and  thought  an  on  ttii.-rt-fWa 
How  that  his  father  him  before. 
Which  sto,.d  u[>-il  tht  turn-*  phee. 
Wu  beardless,  with  a  youngly  fa» 


For  tbat  his  father  had-*  none. 
To  make  him  like  ;  and  hereupon 

Lo,  thus  where  siiciilffj;'  is  n-ol, 
A  man  on  feign  his  conscience; 
Ami  rijrhl  upi'ii  sm-h  evidence 
Id  l-iv-es  rnusc  if  1  shall  treat, 
There  be  #f  such-*  small  snd  great, 
If  they  no  leisure  find-e  else, 
"hev  will  not  wend-*  for  the  bells; 
Not  tho'  they  see  the  priest  it  mass 
That  will  thev  letten  over-pass : 
If  that  thev  iind  their  lov-e  there 


Th«Y 


and',  and  tellen 


:  of  Gud  n< 
Whil-e  they  be  in  that  lulfpuKM 
But  ere  they  go,  snme  advantage 
There  will  they  have;  and  some 
Of  goodly  word,  or  of  behest; 
"      '  ic  they  taken  at  the  least 


r hand  a 


Out  oi 

So  nigh,  tl 

As  Him  «aim,  "Bat  snau  not  lorget 

Thus  hallow  they  the  high-e  feast. 
Such  theft-e  maj-  no  church  arrest," 


aU  is  lawful  that  them  likclh, 


Before  the  fairest  ul 


All  for'  he  should  seem  ires 


Upon  the  fowl,  there  he  shall  light : 


And  si 


a  fo*ry, 


He  shcn-i-th  him  before  her  eye, 
In  holy  plac-e  where  they  ait, 
All  for  to  make  their  heart-ea  Hytte.' 
•e  will  abide, 

un  lier  ana  ner,  as  him  beat  liketh, 
And  other  while,  among  he  aiketh  ;' 
Thinketh  "One  of  them  that  was  for  n 
And  so  there  thinketh  two  or  three; 
it  he  lovetl 


But  loot  and  p 


But! 


«falL 


And  nath-e-lcss  to  I 
The  cause  why  that  he  so  doth. 
Is  for  to  steal  a  heart  or  two, 
Out  of  the  church  ere  that  lie  go. 
And  as  1  said  it  here  above, 
All  is  that  sacrilege  of  lore, 
For  well  may  he  that  he  stesleth  aw> 
Thill  In-  never  niter  yield  may." 

"Tell  me  for  thia,  my  son,  anon. 


b 


■  ;  bu'ttru-B-ly 
o  church  went 


NOTES. 

h  manner  a»  ve  mi 
>  woman  that'  is  a!  i 
mae  why  i  have 


...I  i.- 


Am  nothing  able  for  to  steal, 
Though  there  be  women  pot  su  Ma.' 
But  yet  will  I  not  say-«  this, 
When  1  im  where  mv  lady  is, 

n  lieth  wholly  my  quarrel, 


Will 


hapel 


All  ia  for 


roLd-e 


only  el 


There  might-e  at 
My  lady's  heart-e  for  to  changi 
Which  ever  hath  been  to  me  so 
So  that  all  my  devotion, 
And  all  my  con  tern  plat  icSn, 
With  all  mine  heart,  and  my  c, 

And  evei 
Ifshelo 
That  I 


nil 


)k  any  thing  aside, 
e  may  of  her  advise; 
withct 


lit,  that  me  were  lefe  '* 
To  he  in  holy  church  a  thief. 
But  nut  to  steal,  a  vost-e-ment, 
Km-  that  is  nnthiiig  my  talent ; 
Bat  1  would  steal,  if  that  1  might, 
A  I'lml  wui-il,  in-  a  goodly-  sight. 
And  ever  liiy  service  I  proffer, 
And  namely,  when  she  «ill  iru,  nrter 
For  then  I  lead  her,  if  I  may: 
ffould  1  si 


When 


I  tb*  I 


Yet  at  least,  1  steal  ■ 
,nd  other  while  '  grant  mercy,'  " 
And  ao  were  I  thereby 
■ord  eke, 


A  Insly  touch,  a  good  word  eke, 
But  all  the  rem-e-nant  to  seek, 


/i-ence  I  would  allow 


:o  speed  in  other  place, 


There  !i  in  me  i 


No  sacrilege  of  her  1  took, 
But '  it  were  of  word  or  look, 
0»  els-e  if  that !  her  freed,1 
When  1  toward  offering»  her  lead, 
'like  thereof  «hat  1  take  may, 
Kor  els-e  bear  1  nought  away. 
For  tho'  i  wold-«  ought  else  hare, 
All  other  thing-es  be  so  safe, 
And  kept  with  such  ji  privilege, 
That  i  may  do  no  sacrilege. 
God  wote  '  my  will  uith-tf-less, 
Thcugh  1  must  neeil-es  k»ep-e  pease, 
/ni'.l  miiugre  mine  so  let  it  paw, 
My  will  thereto  is  not  the  lass," 


Th< 


thinketh  tr 
thereof  have  guilt  or  none." 

■Hiv  will,  mvsou.il  for  to  blame, 
is  but  I 


it  I  hay 


■e  told* 


e  this  lore  into  thy  wit, 
That  all  things  have  time' and  -tea 
The  church  servcth  for  the  bead," 
The  chamber  is  of  an  uihur  sjn-i-ch 
But  if  thou  trirtast  nf  the  trNdu,1 
fl'iiv  HHcrilesrs  it  hath  abought, 
Thou  woldesl  bnifi  h,;  f.-A fc...uj; hi 
Canfessio  Amanita,  lib. 


NOTES. 

I  have  transcribed  i.Ili-  «lioh;  uf  this  tult-  (11i"iil':i  the  latter  part 
of  it  U  but  the  niorai)  because  of  this  truth  am]  nature  with  which  it  is 
replete.  Our  churches  art-  ti] led  in  this  day  with  too  many  of  the 
characters  d+'scriU'd  .-■"  admirably  by  Gower. 

Ibid.  "  For  two  BCpedtt]  reasons  took  away  the  beard.  The  tirst 
was.  that  tin:  *}<>>it!'i  tv':  aiine  lil:c  k>:r  au/hr/t,  tuul  a>7  /jr-nr  lw>  pf-"<<i 
vf  hir  ■jiildfii  btanl  "  (p.  81). 

This  idea  seems  trj  have  arisen  from  n  witticism  "f  llinuyshi*,  lh« 
tyrant  of  Syracuse,  reeordi-d  by  Valerius  Mainiius,  lib.  i.  cap.  1,  ex.  'M  : 

"  Iilein  Knidaairi  .Ksi/idapio  Uirliam  i.iin.-ura  demi  juesit:  quod 
n  Hi  mi  are  t.  uvn  i-unnnin  /mIi-hm  Aiullinvtit  ijitWii-m.  iy.-nm  harbaiam." 


Notb  2.    Page  38. 
"AiWius,  or  A  Wis,  was  canonized.     Thi.i  story  is  taken  from  bin 
legend.     In  the  metrical    l.iws    «f   Ihr    f/iiiati.    Ids  life  is  told  in    a 
tort  of  measuiv  dill'.-rent  From  I  bat  of  the  ivst,  and  nut  very  cominou 
in  the  earlier  stages  of  our  poetry.    It  begins  thus  :— 

»"  Listeneth  all,  and  hearkeneth  me, 
Young  and  old-c,  band  and  free, 


"  la  Rum-f  was  a  doughty  man, 
That  was  v-clep«d  Eufemian, 

Man  of  much  might; 
Gold  and  silter  he  had  enows, 
Hall  and  bowers,  oxen  and  pit,* 
And  very  well  it  dight. 


'■  So  toon  a3  he  spake  of  his 
The  guud  man,  as  was  his 
Can  to  sigh  sore; 


I  "At  his  burial,  many  miracles  ara  »n 
"  With  mochel ■  sighs,  and 
That  holy  corse,  them  al 
Bishops  to  church-e  bi 


"  Amidst  right  the  high  street, 
So  much  f»lk  him  guoc  meet. 

That  Ihny  rest  a  stonde,1 
All  they  sighed  that  in  him  er 


And  healed  w 


'"I." 


I 


Of  feet,  and  eke  of  hcnde. 

"The  history  of  Saint  Alexius  is  told  entirely  in  tin?  same  wntAt 

in  tilt-  Uesta  ItuMASOHiiM,  ami  in  the  I,b;emh  A  tuba  of  .liicnbuB  de 

Yoraigne.3  truii.-l;d.-.|  through  n   I'Vn.-h  nu'diiiiri,  i >y  CuxUni.     This 

work  of  Jncohu*  iln^  not  eoiisi~t  solely  of  tin:  IorciiiIs  of  the  sBints, 

in:  I    i-    ri(.T:-|Ni-.i:|   :illllli~  ill  lis  I'Ulrhi  rriiUi*  .1   jirri  i/rilli.-  hintiiriit,  Willi 

many  other  nmr-t  iwiiiitii'ul  and  strange  histories."  s— WaHton. 

As  it  may  ins  amusing  to  Hit-  render  to  romparo  I  In-  triinsliiiinri  in 
the  text  with  Unit  executed  Lv  (he  v.n.  raid,,  patriarch  of  the  prew. 
William  Cnxton.  in  the  lillccnih  century.  I  am  tempted  to  tranncrilie 
it.  There  an-  many  I  Nth-  additi-'iial  tone  In. h  nf  nn  moors  which  llie 
iiiitiijnury  will  ml  ill-  :  urn  I  while  the  general  reader  smiles  at  Ihii  prinii- 
tin;  simplicity  with  which  tlio  story  in  narrated,  he  will,  it  is  pre 
slimed,  derive  some  pleasure  from  the  stroii;;  contrast  afforded  by  the 
inist  and  the  present  era— from  the  elevated  situation  on  which  henuv 
seem  to  stand:  a  being,  as  it  were, of  another  sphere;  averting  the 
pre-eminence  of  civilisation  over  uncultivated  life  — the  polite  rtlltif- 
men!  of  modern  inauuera  over  the  rude  diameter  of  remote  and  bur- 
barons  times. 

J^ttt  folntortli  tljt  [nfr  nf  sannt  Slflis. 
And  fyrst  of  his  name. 

Alexis  is  us  moche  as  to  srtye  as  goynge  not  of  the  lawe  of  tatXJHt 
for  to  keep  virginite  lor  goddes  xake.  and  to  renounce  all  tile  pnmj- 
and  ryehesses  of  the  worlde  for  to  hue  in  pouerte. 

In  the  tynif  that  Ar-lnnliiis  anil  Ilonoriua  were  empetouti "' 
Koine,  there  was  in  Borne  ;i  rvirlit  ii'ilJr  lord  mimed  Eiifeinyen,  uliiri' 
w.is  ehcfe  and  alione  all  other  i"idi:.-  alwntc  the  emporoiira,  and  ruul 
under  his  pom  a  thonsandc  kityglites.  He  was  a  mnche  imtn»11 
to  all  men.  and  also  he  was  pyteoua  and  metcyfull  unto  y  )»"e 
For  he  had  dayly  ttire  tables  .■■.■I.  und  enncred  lor  to  fide  y-"  orpluii' 
poor  wydowes.  and  pylgryms  And  he  etc  ai  the  honre  of  none  til'1 
good  and  religyous  persones.  His  wyfe  y'  was  named  Aglaea  l(do" 
:■  'iliu'vi'ii-  lyl'i-.  lint  liyi'iiuse  tlii-y  had  no  childc,  they  prayl  l> 
god  to  send  them  a  sone  y  mv^lit  he  tlicyr  lieyn;  after  them,  of  tbw 
honour  and  gnodes.  It  was  bo  that  ;.'>hI  hcrde  tlieyi-c  po^rt>.  <'■'' 
heheld  they  re  bnunte  and  good  lyvynge,  and  gave  unto  them  awl» 

"  "Hyilor.    In*i\    to  I.   .  Iviii.   nllt     I  (T9,  tol  ,  anil   in  Vin™-r,t   .-.f  It.  -mi  .1-.  -I:" 

utof  Fn-riMhe  into  Eogjlwllf- bj  «'«"" 
d,  ind  fyniadHd  It  u  the  lu«l  Am*  °t  hv>  IrB."  J* 

11(rf)(™»teUii'Aol'yofthe  legend»  ot  Uw  W-  ■  '-' 

is  u  iBlerspemd  with  florte      "" 


NOTES.  359 

itfiirli  was  named  A  I. 'sis,  "home  tin  y  .  I  y  1  t"  In.:  tauirht  and  nn:'o.]rni.  d 
■11  all  ucyences  ami  honours.  After  this,  they  marred  hym  unto  ft 
fayrti  daiaoysel,  which  was  of  y*  lygnage  of  y*  emperour  of  Rome. 
Wliiin  thi'  date  "I'  y  woddynu-e  was  i-i-jih-ii  1"  i-ven.  Alexis  lu'Viisif  i" 
Tin'  ehuuibrc  w1'  his  wyfe.  alone.  U^an  to  enfourme  and  eniluce  her  to 
«lrede  god  «nil  act  an  livni.  and  wvrc  all  that  night  togyder  in  right 
good  doetry lie.  n rid  fyiniUy  In-  pivs  to  his  wyfe  his  rynge  and  the 
luickle  of  guide-  i>f  liys  gyrdle.  I-  -tin-  boiuiden  in  a  lyti-1  cloth  of  purple, 
and  sayd  to  her.  h'uyre  sist,-r,  bane  this,  and  kepo  it  as  longe  os  it 
tluill  please  nnr  lord  god,  and  it  shall  In-  n  token  bytwecne  us,  and  he 
(lytic  you  grace  to  kepe  truly  your  virgynitie.  After  this  ho  toke  »f 
(jiihle  mill  sylner  a  grotc  sommi',  and  departed  alone  fro  Home,  and 
fotimle  a  «hyppe  in  which  he  sayled  in  to  Greece.  And  fro  them 
went  ill  to  Snrrye,1  and  came  to  a  city  called  l-Mi-sia,  and  gnua  there 
all  his  money  for  the  lone  of  tied,  and  clad  hym  in  a  cote,  and  de- 
ruuimded  almea  for  goddus  sake  lyke  a  poore  man  tofore  the  chirche  of 
oar  lady,  and  what  lie  lefte  "I"  the  almesses  aboue  his  necessity,  he 
galie  it  to  other  fur  ^"Idi-.-  sake,  and  euery  sondaye  he  was  houaeled 
nod  reecyved  the  sai'ramciit.  snehe  a  Kfe  lie  ladd.-  lon^-c.  Snjin-  n!"  y  ' 
messengers  y'  Ml  father  had  sent  to  aecbe  hym  through  all  the 
[iiirtvcs  of  Hie  world  came  to  seek  hym  in  the  sayd  oyte  of  l-Mys-ia 
and  gaue  unto  hyin  thevr  nhnes.  he  syttvna-e   tofore  the  chirche  with 

ntlii'i  ['■'ore  ] ]■!> ■.  lull  lln.-y  knew  hym  not.  and  lie  liricwe  will  tin  in. 

and  thanked  onr  l.ord.  sayenef.  1  thank  tile  fayre  lorde  Jesu  Chryst 
y1  thou  vouchest  sale  to  call  rue.  and  to  take  almes  in  thy  name  of  my 
mruants.  I  jirayi-  the  lo  |ierfonn:i  in  mi-  that  whieli  thou  hast  begun. 
Whan  the  messengers  were  returned  to  Home,  and  Eufemyen  his 
fader  suwe  they  had  not  founden  his  simp,  he  hi  yd  hym  down  upon  a 
mntres  stratcliynge  on  the  erth,  waylvngo  and  nayd  thus,  I  shal  hnlde 
me  here  and  aiiyile  tyll  y'  I  have  tydynges  of  my  aone.  And  y  wyfe 
of  his  «one  Ale-vis  sayd  wenvnge  to  Eufemyeu,  I  shal  not  departe  out 
of  your  hous,  hut  aba]  make  me  asmblable  and  lyke  to  the  tnrtle, 
whiche  after  y'  she  hath  lost  her  felon e  wjl  take  none  other,  hut  all 
ber  lyfe  after  lyvcth  chaste.  In  lyke  wyse,  I  shall  refuse  all  felow- 
ahyp  unto  y  time  y'  I  shall  knowe  where  my  ryghte  awete  freode  is 
beeonien.  After  I  hut  Alexis  had  done  his  penaiinee  hy  right  grete 
poverte  in  v  sayd  eyte,  and  ledde  a  ryght  holy  tyfe  hy  y"  space  of 
xvij  yere,  there  wan  a  voyee  lierde  y'  came  fro  god  un'o  the  chireha 
of  our  lady  and  said  In  the  potior.  Make  (lie  man  of  god  to  entre  in, 
for  he  ia  worthy  to  hnne  the  kingdoms  of  heven,  and  the  apiryto  of 
god  reeteth  on  hym.  Whan  the  storks  oonda  not  t'yndo  ne  knowe 
hym  amonge  the  other  poor  men,  he  prayed  unto  god  to  shewo  to 
hym  who  it  was.  And  a  vovee  eame  lioin  heven  and  sayd,  he  sytteth 
Without  tofore  the  entrc  of  the  chirche.  And  bo  the  clerke  founde 
bym,  and  prayed  hym  humbly  that  he  wolde  come  into  y*  chirche. 
Whan  this  myracle  came  to  the  knowledge  of  the  people,  and  Alexia 
«awe  that  men  dyd  lo  hym  honour  and  worshy  p,  a  none  for  to  eschews 
Voynglory  he  departed  fro  thens  and  cairn-  into  On  ce  when  he  toko 
■liyppe,  and  entred  for  to  go  to  Cecyle,1  but  us  god  wold  there  aroso 
'SjtU.    '  •  Skllr, 


■  grete  wyndc  which  made  the  *li  vppo  tc 


i  the  porte  of  Ronu 


When  Alexis  ant  lliis.  auonc  ho  Suyd  to  iiyinselfc.  By  the  grace  of 
god  I  wyl  charge  no  man  nf  lii.ano.  I  tvyl  go  to  iny  fadera  lions  ia 
suchu  wyse  us  1  slial  not  be  U-linuWcii  of  ony  peraou.  And  when  he 
was  within  Rome  he  meUe  MiilVniyi.ii  his  fader  which  came  fro  y 
l«ilaya  of  y*  empemurs  w™  a  grete  nieyny  '  followynge  hym.  And 
Alexia  hyo  sone  a  poore  man  ranue  cryenge  and  eayd.  Scrgcauiii  "■' 
god  haue  pyte  on  me  that  am  a  poor  pylgryiu.  and  receyvu  me  iota 
ihy  hous  fur  l.i  haue  my  ^u-.linnunei;  nf  y  ■  rtdcfo  y1  shall  comi!  fro  thy 
horde,  that  god  [niayj  hlysso  the,  anil  haue  pyte  on  thy  sone,  which 
is  also  a  pylgryiu.  Whan  Euteinycn  herd.'  -poke  of  his  sone,  anone 
his  herte  begun  to  iji.lt  and  suyd  to  hys  scrvnuntes,  Whiche  of  you 
wyl  haue  pyte  on  tliia  man,  and  take  y  cure  and  charge  of  hym.  I 
i-liiill  deliver  hym  linii  hya  si.Tvagc  and  liiiikr-  him  free,  and  .shall  gyve 
hym  of  myn  herytagc.  And  auonc  Jil-  eommys.i  d  -  hym  to  one  of  hid 
sorvauntos,  anil  cumin  luri.Ld  y'  his  1  n ■■  i ■  1 . ■  sholde  be  made  in  a  corner 
of  y'1  hall,  whereas  comers  and  sours  myght  se  hym.  And  the  ser- 
vaunt  to  whom  Alexia  was  coin  in»  undid  to  kepe  made  anonc  his  beddc 
under  this  atayr  and  steppes  of  the  hall.  And  there  he  lay  tight  like 
a  poore  wretche,  and  siiilYcd  n.any  vvlanvi.s  and  despytes  of  the  ser- 
vauntea  of  hia  fader,  which  oft  tyiucs  cast  and  threwe  on  hym  y* 
wasahynsc  of  disshes  and  other  fyllh,  and  dyd  to  hym  many  eu ill 
tiirnoa,  and  ni»ckod   hym,  tint  ho  m-tier  ciiuiplaynod,  but   suffered  all 

tacyently  for  the  louc  of  god.  Final  h  "lian  hi'  had  ledde  this  right 
oly  lyfe  w'in  hia  fadera  hous  in  fuslynge,  in  prayenge,  and  in 
peuauuee  hy  the  spii'ie  of  nj  yere,  and  kocwe  [hat  he  sholde  soon  dye, 
lie  prayed  the  servnniit  y1  kepte  hym  to  gyve  hym  a  pece  of  parche- 
ineut  and  ynke.  And  therein  he  wrote  l.y  ordre  all  hya  lyfe  and  how 
he  was  maryed  by  the  commaniidcnient  of  his  fader,  and  what  he  hail 
sayd  to  hya  wife,  and  of  the  tokens  of  hya  rynge  and  boele  of  hys 
tiyrdell,  T li.tt-  he  had  iiyuon  to  her  at  lu>  di.- part  voire,  and  what  he  had 
•uttered  for  goddea  sake.  And  all  this  dyd  lie  for  to  make  his  fader 
to  understand!'  that  he  was  his  sone.  After  this  whan  it  pleased  god 
liir  to  shewe  and  many f est  the  vy-ctory  of  our  hirde  Jcsu  llhvist  in  hi- 
serv aunt  Alexia.  On  a  tyma  on  a  sondaye  after  mas.se  herynge  all 
ihe  people  in  the  ehirohe.  Ihrre  was  a  voyce  hcrde  from  god  cryenge 
and  sayenge  as  is  say.l  Mathei  umlccimo  rapitnlo.  Come  unto  me 
ye  that  Inbuilt'  and  It  trainiyh.d.  1  shall  comfort  yon.  Of  which  Yoytv 
all  the  people  were  aba-f.lird.  whiehe  anone  fell  downe  unto  the  erth. 
And  the  voyco  sayd  agayne.  Seche  ye  the  servannt  of  j™d,  for  In' 
praveth  for  all  Home.  And  they  sou -hi  hym,  but  he  was  not  fnuuden. 
1!  Alexin  in  a  mornynge  on  a  good  frydnye  gaue  hid  soul  to  god, 
and  departed  out  of  this  worhle.  And  j"  saiuo  daye  all  the  people 
assembled  at  Siiynt  f'etois  ehnrrhe  and  prayed  god  y'  he  wolde  shewe 
to  them  where  the  in:m  of  «nd  myght  hi-  fouuden  y'  prayed  for  Koine. 
And  a  yoyce  was  horde  that  rami:  fro  god  (lull  sayd.  Ye  shall  fynde 
him  in  the  hous  of  Eufemyen.  And  the  people  said  unto  Fui'emyen. 
Why  hast  thou  hydde  fro  us.  thou  hast  suchc  grace  in  thy  bona.  And 
Kufcmyen  answered.     God  huowelh  that  I  knowe  no  thytigo  therof. 


NOTES.  361 

J  ArchaditiB  ami  Honorious  y'  were  empcroiirs  at  Home,  and  also 

y"  popo  Innocent  I'emi indod  y'  men  shold  go  unto  Eufeinyens  luuia 

for  to  enqnyre  dili.-i  ijtSy  tydynges  of  the  man  of  cod.  Eufemyen 
«'tint  tofore  with  his  s.-rvauntes  for  to  make  rcdy  his  lions  agnynat  the 
enmynge  of  tun  I'ope  and  cmperourB.  And  whan  Alexis  wyfu  under- 
stade  the  cause,  and  how  a  voyce  was  herds  that  came  fro  god, 
aayenge.  Sechc  ye  y"  mau  of  god  in  Eufemyens  hous,  anon  she  sayd 
to  Eufemyen.  Syr  si;  )  f  this  poor.,  man  that  ye  have  so  loujr  kepte 
a' id  herln.-roiird  o.  ■  tin-  -aim;  in  an  of  i;'nl,  I  tjiivi-  well  iiiarki  d  that.  I.e 
Inith  lyued  a  right  fayre  and  holy  iyi...  Ha  hath  euery  sondaye 
receyyed  the  sacrament  of  the  awter.  He  hath  ben  ryght;  religions 
i!  fastyngc,  in  wakynge,  and  in  prayer,  and  hatli  auiired  paoyently 
and  debonayrly  of  our  servauntes  many  vylanyes.  And  when 
Eufemyen  had  herde  all  this,  he  ran  toward  Alexia  and  founde  hym 
deed.  He  dyscnuorod  his  visage,  whi'.die  shone  and  was  bryght  aa  y" 
faeu  of  an  aungell.  And  anone  he  returned  tonarde  y*  eniperouis 
and  sayd.  We  have  foundeu  the  man  of  siod  that  we  sought.  Ami 
tolde  unto  them  how  In-  had  In'r-Leinwed  hi  :n.  and  ]n>iv  the  holy  man 
had  lyued,  and  also  how  he  was  deed,  and  that  he  helde  o  byll  or 
lettre  in  his  hande  whieh  they  uiLdit  not  drawo  out.  Anone  the 
emperoura  with  the  pope  went  to  Eufemyens  hous,  and  came  tofore 
the  bedde  wheie  Alexis  lay  deed  and  sayd.  Hew  well  that  we  be 
synners,  yet  nenerlbeless  ive  governo  y"  world..;,  and  1™  here  is  y* 
pope  the  gcneiall  fader  of  nil  tlie  rdnrehe.  ami  gyve  us  i be  lettre  j' 
thou  boldest  in  tbyn  hande,  for  to  kuowe  what  is  the  ivrytyng  of  it. 
And  the  pope  wente  tofore  and  toke  the  lettre,  and  loke  it  lo  his 
notary  for  to  rede.  And  y  notary  redde  tofore  the  pope,  the  empe- 
rours  and  all  the  people.  And  whan  be  ratine  to  the  poynt  that  made 
mencyon  of  his  fad. a  and  of  hi-  moder.  and  also  of  his  wyfo,  and  that 
by  the  enseygnes  '  that  la;  bad  gyuen  to  his  wyfo  at  his  departynge, 
his  rynge  and  boele  of  his  gyrdlu  wrapped  in  a  lytoll  purple  clothe  at 
his  dopartynge.  Anone  EulVmverj  fell  dowue  in  a  sivoone,  and  whan 
he  came  agayne  to  hymseliV  in;  bejrao  to  draw  his  lures  and  belle  his 
brcst  and  fell  downe  on  the  corps  of  Alexia  hie  sone,  and  kyeaed  it, 
wepyug  and  cryenga  in  ryght  grete  aorrowo  of  herte,  aayenge.  Alas 
ryght  swete  son  wlu-rtfure  hast  thou  made  me  to  stifl™  suche  aorowe, 
thou  aaweat  what  aorowe  and  heuynes  we  had  for  the,  alaa  why 
hnddeaf  thou  no  pite  on  ua  in  so  long  tyme,  how  myghteat  thou  auffre 
thy  moder  aud  thy  father  wepe  so  moHm  for  The,  ami  thou  sawest  it 
well  without  fat-yog  pyte  on  ua.  I  supposed  tn  hare  herd  some 
tydynges  of  the,  and  now  1  se  the  lye  d..ed.  whiche  sboldeat  be  my 
solace  in  myne  age,  alaa  what  aolace  may  I  haue  that  se  my  right 
dere  son  deed,  me  were  better  dye  than  lyvo.  Whan  the  moder  of 
Alexis  sane  ami  herd  this,  she  eaiiio  rennyngo  lyke  a  lyonesse  and 
oryed,Alasl  alas  I  drawing  her  hecre  in  grete  tonowe,  scralchvng!! 
her  pappea  with  her  navies  aayimgo.  These  i>ap]ies  hauo  gyven  the 
souke,  and  whan  she  might  not.  eome  to  the  mips  for  the  toy  sou  ol 
people  y'  wub  sane  thyder,  she  oried  and  said.  Make  rome  and  wayo 
to  me  sorrowfull  moder  y1  I  may  ae  my  desyre  and  my  dere  sou  that 


body  of  her  aonc,  bIip  fell  downe  on  it  pyteously  aod  kyasei 
enge  thus.  Ala*  for  Borowe  my  dere  sou,  y'  lyght  of  rnyn  i 
hast  thou  made  tie  entire  so  mi  who  aorow,  thou  rawest  thy  fu 
me  thy  sorowefnll  moder  so  ofto  wepe  for  the,  and  nolde 
make  to  us  sum 
wepe  ye  with  it 

vij.  yere  lis  a  poore  man,  to  whnrne  my  servuiitilcs  have  done  mocac 
yylany.  A  1  fuyre  sone  thou  hast  suii'red  them  right  swetely  mil 
ih-lxmayrly.  Alas,  tlioii  that  were  my  trust,  my  coiufnrte,  and  my 
solace  in  myn  . il 1 1. ■  ajrc,  how  loLj.lit.j.t  tlinu  hyde  y°  from  me,  that  aa. 
thy  aorowfnll  modf-.r,  who  shall  gyve  to  myn  even  from  hens  forth  u 
fuuntayn  of  teres  for  to  make  payue  uutn  y  sorowe  of  my  herte.  AnJ 
after  this  came  tlio  wyfi;  of  Ales  is  in  wqiyng  throwynge  heraelfe  up™ 
the  body,  and  with  grote  syudies  and  lieuyness  sayd,  Rig-lit  sm-if 
fromle  and  spouse  u  home  Ionise  I  uimu  doayred  to  ae,  and  chastely  I 
haue  to  y=  kept  myselfc  lykc  a  turtle  v1  alone  without  make'  wayletli 
arel  vvcpctli.  and  loo  here  is  my  right  swete  husbooda,  whome  I  have 
■lesyred  to  ae  alyue,  and  now  I  se  hyni  deed,  fro  bena  forth  I  note  put 
in  whome  I  shall  haue  fvnuuee  lie  hope.  Certoa  my  solace  is  deed, 
and  in  aorowe  I  ahall  be  unto  y*  deth.  For  now  fortho'  I  urn  )' 
most  unhappy  amon;;,.  all  women,  run  I  h-kened  amongc  the  sorowfull 
wydowes.  And  after  these  pyteoua  complayntes  y  people  wepte  ("r 
the  deth  of  Alexia.  The  pope  made  the  body  to  he  taken  up  and  In 
be  put  into  a  ahryiie,  and  borne  unto  y  ehirche.  And  whan  it  «»a 
borne,  through  y':  eyfe  ry<rht  ■j.nAt:  foyson  *  of  people  came  ainiyri-t  i'. 
and  aayd.  Tin  man  of  god  i.H  fonnden  y*  the  cyte  nought.  What- 
Eomever  sike  body  toyght  touch  the  ahryne,  he  was  anone  heied  "I 
his  malady. 

There  waa  a  blyndo  man  yl  recoinnil  hys  IJght,  and  lame  B-nd 
other  he  heled.      The    emperour  made  gnitu  foyson    of   golcle  t>uJ 

ie  throwon  a ngi'  y    people  for  to  nuke  wave  y'  theabryne 

And  thus,  by  grck'  labour  and  reuerenee,  waa  borne 
the  body  of  Saint  Aleiis  unto  the  churcho  of  Saynt  Bony-face,  y" 
irl'iiion.-i  irnirtyr.  And  there  waa  the  body  put  in  a  ahryne  iii-h'Ii.- 
honourably  nulr  of  rri-Mo  and  hyluer,  y1"  seuenth  dsye  of  Juvll.1  Anil 
»1  the  people  rend  rod  thankyn^es  ami  luiidea  to  our  lorde  God  for  bis 
gretc  inyiaelcs,  unto  whome  be  gyuen  honour,  laude  and  glory  in 
aecula  seculorum.    Amen.' 

From  the  prreodin!;  narratives,  the  reader  may  discover  some  d 
the  moat  prominent  features  of  Roman  Catuello  worship.  Let  vt 
glance  at  the  story.  Here  ia  a  young  man  connected  by  the  olousl 
of  all  ties  to  a  deserving  female,  whom  he  marries  to  read  a  the- 
logical  lecture,  and  then  leave  a  prey  to  irremediable  regret.  Be 
associates  with  a  number  of  squalid  wretches,  and  eiinta  on  the  pre- 


myjiJit  pas 

the    body  i 


1  Tint 


" 


>y  Wjnkyn  do  WordC,  -ol  Uk  nlM 


NOTES. 

carious    bounty  nf  strangers    in    the    most  unprofitable,  not   to   say 

knavish,  indolence.  In  the  mean  time  his  broken -In  artod  parents  are 
devoured  by  an  intense  anxiety,  of  which  he  is  totally  regardless.  1 
puaa  the  miraculous  part  of  tins  veritable  history:  if  Prince  Hohcn- 
lohe's  marvels  deserve  credit,  it  would  be  incongruous  and  incon- 
sistent to  refuse  it  here.  Our  "pious  .-Eneas,"  disguised  in  the 
accumulated  tittli  of  seventeen  years,  returns  to  hie  father's  house. 
Here  he  breeds  a  raco  of  vermin  ;  and  luxuriously  battens  upon  tliu 
garbage,  which  the  servant-,  aware  el' Ins  peculiar  l.ustc,  plentifully,  anil 
one  might  think,  properly,  communicated.  Ail  this  while  ho  is  an  eye- 
witness, and  an  car  witness,  of  tie  misery  Ids  absence  occasions  ;  and,  as 
if  to  complete  I  be  per  feci  ion  of  sue  It  a  character,  lie  leaves  behind  hint 
a  scroll,  of  which  the  only  clleci.  must  necessarily  be  til  arouse  a  keener 
agony,  and  to  quicken  a  dying  despair.  And  this  is  the  monstrous 
compound,  which  a  voice  from  heaven  proclaims  holy,  and  which 
miracles  are  called  iti  to  sanctum!  This  is  to  be  emphatically,  a 
"  Man  of  God  !"  He  who  neglects  every  relative  duty;  he  who  ia  a 
cruel  and  ungrateful  son,  a  bad  husband,  and  careless  master ;  he 
whose  whole  life  is  to  consume  time,  not  to  employ  it — to  vegetate,  but 
not  to  exist-  to  dream  away  life,  with  every  sense  looked  up,  every 
capability  destroyed,  every  sjoni  principle  uncultivated — and  that 
too  in  the  most  loathsome  and  degraded  condition  ruts,  ia  to  be  a 
««no/  God! 

That  the  story  before  us  contains  a  faithful  picture  of  the  times, 
and  of  many  succeeding  times  ;  tin, t  it  describes  the  prevailing  tenets 
of  popery,  will  be  generally  admitted.  Some,  indeed,  whose  charity 
"  hopeth  the  best,"  will  be  ready  to  believe  that  the  colours  of  an 
imaginative  mind  have,  been  scattered  along  it;  and  that,  however 
correspondent  the  outline  may  be,  the  sketch  has  been  filled  up  by 
aid  of  exa iteration,  while  embellishment  has  stepped  into  the  place 
of  truth,  ilut  we  have  unfortunately  loo  many  prototypes  in  nature  ; 
history  is  too  copious  in  examples  to  oblige  us  to  have  recourse  to 
fiction  for  an  illustrative  comment,  The  life  of  Ignatius  Loyola,  the 
founder  of  the  order  of"  Jesus,  prcsonls  a  very  singular  and  apposite 
continuation  of  the  remark  :  and  I  am  happy  to  have  received  a  most 
obliging  permission  to  extract  an  able  article  on  this  subject  front  a 
late  number  of  the  Ui-fnif/nKtiin!  /Y'lfiiien;  a  work  which  I  have  no 
hesitation  in  commending,  whether  for  the  soundness  of  its  principles, 
the  depth  and  accuracy  of  its  researches,  or  the  high  intellectual 
superiority  with  which  it  has  hitherto  been  conducted.1 


"  We   n 


r  history  in  the  year  1491,  which  was 


^!"1  TtaSlEi  «"*■  tL?pB™iStim™«' 

1  |-r,it,.Ll']y  (delude  Itiat  larmlimnj  u 
wljri  lp\;>-n  an  Interest  fo  the  progress  ol 

-l".;1'"!  '""';■■  til!!™!?!™! 

nethlao;  of  works  formerly  aj  popular. 

prifUL'tti  to  ill."  will  Denied  an  oc 
iiIjIcvp.  or  ulalitv  MrtiimuiiLciilc.     1 

union  of  acquiring  at,  mucb  as  iDTMlga- 

i:i,.ii.'f:ii  rc.taai.wu  In  llw  Seven 

enlti  Number— nut  pi-rlup*  as  the  tail 

364 


NOTES. 


rendered  import urit  by  tli.'  hinh  of  Ignatius,  who  first  saw  the  lijtit 
in  Spain,  in  the  district  culled  i  uiipu-coa.  Being  descended  from  in 
ancient  family,  tlu!  lords  of  Ogncz  and  Loyola,  and  moreover  *rll- 
shaped  and  of  a  lively  temper,  his  father  destined  hira  for  the  court, 
where  he  was  sent  at  an  early  ago  as  page  to  king  Ferdinand.  In- 
cited, however,  by  the  example  of  his  brothers,  who  had  d-istmguy.oi 
themselves  in  the  army,  and  his  own  love  of  glory,  ha  soon  rk* 
weary  of  the  inactivity  of  a  court  life,  and  determined  to  seek  mi.ui 
in  war.  He  applied  himself  with  L-reat  assiduity  and  success  to  Lis 
military  exercises,  and  soon  qualified  himself  for  the  service  of  to 
prince.  It  is  said  that  on  all  occasions  ha  displayed  great  braiery 
and  conduct :  Nut  the  writers  of  his  1  i iV-  being  ncrc  interested  in  ilw 
detail  of  hia  theological  warfare,  have  passed  bis  military  utiicve- 
nu'nts  with  a  slight  notice,  except  (in;  ait'air  which  was  the  more 
immediate  cause  of  what  is  called  his  conversion.  This  was  the  tiegi 
of  i'ampcluni  tiy  I  ho  French :  on  which  occasion  Don  Ignatiib.  ilu-a 
about  tliirly  years  of  age.  displayed  meat  .gallantry,  and  was  waimdcl 
by  a  splinter  in  his  ltt't  leg,  mid  his  right  was  almost  at  the  sum 
monieni  broken  by  a  cannon  shot.  The  wounds  were  for  a  tiaieoiu- 
sidcrcd  dangerous ;  and  the  physicians  declared  that,  unless  adaiiiia- 
took  place  before  (lie  middle  of  the  night,  they  would  prove  final:  ii 
was  rlierefore  thought  advisable  that  the  sacrament  should  k  "i- 
ministered  to  him.  i'his  fonunalcly  happened  to  be  the  eve  of  St 
Peter,  for   whom   Ignatius   had  a  special    veneration,  and   in  «lime 


» 


of  the  night  arrived,  the.  apostle  appeared  to  him  in  «vision, 
bringing  '  healing  on  his  wings.' 

"Another  of  his  biographers  conjectures  that  the  prince  -if  ti> 
ajjosths  effected  his  resloruiion  to  health,  because  he  had  a  s|Wiul 
interest  iu  tbo  cure  of  a.  man  destined  by  heaven  to  maintain  u.. 
authority-  of  the  Holy  See  against  hotcsy.  However  this  may  I"1. 
Ignatius  assuredly  recovered,  although  a  slight  deformity  rcmiauol 
on  his  leg,  caused  by  the  protrusion  of  a  bone  under  the  h'L' 
liiievously  ulllicted  lliat  the  symmetry  of  his  person  should  be  luiis 
spoiled,  he  determined  to  have  the  obnoxious  bone  cut  off,  anil  tlie 
operatiou  was  performed  almost  without  producing  a  chuni»  '& 
countenance  in  the  hardy  sol  lie;.      \,n«  ilh.-landiug  all  his  care,  Iu'«- 

c\er.  his  cighl  leg  always  !■.  loaiked  Si  illle  VI  ll.lt  rl|Or[,.-r  (l,;-,u  the  I  r  it.    11'- 

strained  from  walking,  and  confined  to  hie  bed,  he  requested,  in  nnlt-f 
to  aninse  himself,  to  lie  furnished  with  some  books  of  chivalry. '.i'1 
sort  of  reading  which  chiefly  occupied  the  attention  of  people  rt' 
quality  at  that  time;  hul  instead  of  l\ili,i,-rin  nf  Em/laml,  or  Aiwl* 
<■/  Gaul,  they  brought  him  The  Una  ■•/  Die  SdiiiU.  At  first  he  reid 
them  without  any  other  view  than  that  ofhrguiling  the  time:  but  by 
degrees  lie  began  to  relish  them,  and  at  length  became  so  ahsort*"! 
in  the  study  of  asceticism,  (bat  he  passed  whole  days  iu  sttuiivrn.S 
Th*  Lire*  a/ iltf  .~'itinl.~,  ami  tiuallv  made  a  resolution  to  imitate  men 
who  bad  so  distinguished  themselves  by  warring  against  their  <)« 
flesh  and  blood.  These  aspirations  were  succeeded  by  his  foron* 
desire  tor  military  glory ;  but  alter  various  mental  conflicts,  and  > 


NOTES.  36-5 

preat  deal  of  reflection,  the  chains  of  penance   at  length  complete! j 
triumphed. 

"For  the  purpose  of  gratifying  this  passion,  ho  determined  to  go 
barefoot  to  the  i  I ■  I y  l.nml.  to  clothe  himsvll  in  ■;<!■■  b'loth,  to  live  upon 
Wetid  ami  water.  '■■  ~lr;«?]-  "n  tit--  lure  -[■■urn!.  ami  tu  choose  n  desert  f"r 
hie  abode  ;  but  in  the  mean  time,  as  bin  leg  wan  not  sufficiently  well 
to  allow  bim  to  curry  hi.-1  wish,--  ;;•-,.  i  effect,  in  order  in  a  slight  decree 
to  satisfy  the  longings  of  hi»  soul,  tin  spent  part  (if  the  night  in  weep- 
ing for  his  fins ;  and  out  night,  prostrating  himself  before  an  image  of 
the  blessed  Virgin,  he  consecrated  himself  to  tile  service  of  her  illld 
her  Son.  Immediately  he  heard  a  terrible  noise.  The  bouse  shook, 
the  windows  were  broken,  and  ii  rent  made  in  the  wall,  which  was 
Jong  after,  and  pr"bubly  may  ut  thi-  day  be  seen.  These  extraordinary 
signs  are  not  noticed  by  M.dtei :  bill  hi?  less  cautious  brother.  Itiba- 
deneira,  relate»  the  iuet.  although  be  is  in  some  doubt  whether  it  was 
a  sign  of  the  uppiobaiinti  of  the  IJeity,  or  of  the  rage  of  the  devils,  at 
seeing  their  prey  ravished  from  them. 

'•Another  mgiil  the  Virgin  appeared  to  him,  holding  her  Son  in 
her  arms;  a  sight  which  so  replenished  him  with  spiritual  unction, 
that  from  that  time  forward  bis  soul  became  puriiie.d,  and  all  images 
of  sensual  delight  were  for  ever  razed  from  his  mind.  He  felt  himself 
re-created,  anil  spent  all  bin  time  in  read  in. g,  writing,  and  meditating 
on  performing  something  extraordinary.  At  length  he  sallied  forth 
from  Loyola,  where  be  had  been  convev.-d  alter  the  siege  of  Fampeluna, 
and  took  the  roud  to  Montserrat.  ■••  monastery  "1  benodictines,  at  that 
time  famous  for  the  de\otions  of  j.jIl,-  iin-.  making  by  the  way  a  vow  of 
perpetual  chastity,  one  of  the  instrument»  with  which  he  proposed  to 
arm  liim-elf  in  iii*  eentompliited  combats,  lie  had  not  ridden  far  be- 
fore he  fell  in  with  a  Moor,  with  whom  he  entered  into  conversation, 
and  amongst  other  topics  engaged  in  an  argument  about  i  le-  i .■ ; r l l - 1 ■  ■  i : 
late  purity  of  tlie  blessed  Virgin.  The  Moor  agreed  that,  until  the 
birth  of  Christ,  Mary  preserved  her  virginity:  but  he  maintained  that 
when  she  became  a  mother  ilm  ceased  to  be  a  virgin.  The  knight 
heard  this  i  reason  agidu-i,  iii»  Lady  with  the  greatest  horror;  and  the 
Moor,  perceiving  the  diseu.-smn  was  tending  to  a  disagreeable  point, 
set  spur»  to  his  horse  and  made  off.  The  champion  of  the  honour  of 
the  blessed  Virgin  was  for  a  while  in  doubt  whether  it  was  required 
of  him  to  revenge  the  blasphemies  of  the  Moor.  He,  however, 
followed  him,  until  tie  arrived  at  a  place  where  the  road  parted,  one 
branch  of  it  leading  to  Montserrat,  and  the  other  to  a  village  whither 
the  Moor  was  going:  ami  U  jog  mindful  of  the  expedient  which  errant 
knight»  of  old  frequently  adopted  to  solve  a  doubt,  he  very  wisely 
determined  to  be  guided  by  his  horse,  and  if  the  animal  took  the  sam'o 
road  as  the  Moor,  to  take  vengeance  on  bim  :  if  not,  then  to  pursue  his 
way  in  peace  to  Montserrat.  The  horse  being  of  a  peaceable  disposi- 
tion, took  the  road  to  Montserrat :  and  having  arrived  at  a  village,  at 
the  foot  of  tbc  mountain  on  which  the  monastery  stands,  his  rider  pur- 
chased the  equipage  of  n.  pilgrim,  and  proceeding  to  the  monastery, 
sought  ont  an  able  spiritual  director,  ami  confessed  ids  sinn,  which  b 
did  in  so  full  and  ample  a  manner,  ami  interrupted  it  with  such  tor- 
rents of  tears,  that  his  confession  lusted  three  aaya. 


306  NOTES. 

which  Ignatius  took  was  tn  seek  out  a,  poor  man,  to  whom,  strippra; 
himself  to  his  shirt,  he  privately  gave  all  his  clothes  :  then,  putting 
on  hia  pilgrim's  weeds,  he  returned  to  the  church  of  the  monastery .' 
Here,  nine  inhering  that  it  was  customary  for  persona  to  watch  a  whelf 
Light  in  their  arms,  previously  to  their  being  knighted,  he  determine! 
in  like  manner  to  keep  bit.  mil  before  the  altar  OS  his  Lady ;  and  sus- 
pending his  sword  upon  a  pillar,  in  token  of  his  renonncing  seculw 
warfare,  he  continued  in  prayer  the  wh...le  night,  devoting  himself  to 
the  Saviour  and  the  Mossed  Virgin,  as  their  true  knight,  according  to 
the  practice  of  chivalry. 

"  Early  in  the  morning  ho  departed  from  Montserrat,  leaving  liii 
horse  to  the  monastery,  ami  roci-ivmg  in  r-sclianin:  certain  penitential 
instrument!'  from  his  ghostly  father.  Willi  his  staff  in  his  hand,  la- 
scrip  by  his  side,  bare-headed,  one  foot  unshod  (the  other  being  still 
weak  from  his  wound),  he  walked  briskly  to  Munreza.  a  small  town . 
about  three  leagues  from  Montserrat.  Resolved  to  make  Manrein 
illustrious  by  his  exemplary  penance,  he  took  up  his  abode  at  tiu 
hospital  for  pilgrims  and  sick  persons;  he  girded  his  loins  with  IE  ircn 
chain,  put  on  a  hair  shirt,  discipline-' 1  himself  throe  times  a  day,  laid 
upon  the  bare  ground,  and  lived  upon  bread  and  water  for  n  week. 
Not  content  witli  these  tnorti  tics  tin  ns,  he  sometimes  added  to  his  hair 
shirt  a  girdle  of  certain  herbs  full  of  thorns  and  prickles.  Ha  spent 
seven  hours  every  day  in  prayer,  and  frequently  continued  a  lengthnf 
time  nil li.ii, t  motion.  <".-,iim.|.  rim.-,  hewi-ivr.  tliiii  ibis  maceration  'iflii- 
liody  would  advance  him  but  a  liitle  way  lo  heaven,  he  nest  resolved 
tn  .-tine  in  himself  nil  emotions  nf  pride  and  self-love,  and  for  this  end, 
he  studiously  rendered  himself  disgusting,  nenK-eiin^  his  person,  and. 
to  hid*  his  quality,  assuming  a  clownish  carriage.  With  his  fat* 
covered  with  dirt,  lit.*  hair  matted,  and  his  beard  mul  nails  of  a  fearful 
length,  but  his  soul  filled  with  inward  satisfaction,  he  begged  hi* 
broad  from  door  to  door,  a  spectacle  of  scorn  and  ridicule  to  all  the  in- 
habitants and  children  "f  Manro/.a.1  He  persevered  in  this  course, 
notwithstanding  the  suggestions  of  the  wily  enemy  of  mankind,  Mb" 
wished  to  tempt  him  to  the  world  again,  until  a  report  was  circulated 
that  he  was  a  person  of  iiimlity.  and  the  feelings  of  the  people  were 
C"nvi-rt..:d  from  scorn  and  ridicule  to  ii.liuir.il  i"fi  and  reverence,  whei!- 
upon  he  retreated  to  a  cave  in  the  neighbourhood.1  The  gloom  of 
his  new  abode  excited  in  him  a  lively,  vigorous  spirit  of  peminee,  in 
which  he  revelled  with  the  utmost  fervour,  and  without  the  lea»! 
restraint,  lie  chastised  his  body  f.nir  or  live  times  a  day  with  hi» 
iron  chain,  abstained  from  food  until  exhausted  nature  compiled  tin 
to  refresh  himself  with  a  few  roots,  and  instead  of  praying  seven 
hour»  a  day,  he  did  nothing  but  pray  from  morning  until  niglil, 
and  again,  from  night  until  morning,  lamenting  his  transgressi"fi*. 
ami  praising  the  mercies  of  God.  These  excessive  indulge!!".1* 
mightily  impaired  his  health,  and  brought  on  a  disease  of  (In 
stomach,  which  at  intervals  all  lifted  him,  until  the  time  of  his  death: 


NOTES.  307 

the  spiritual  joys  which  they  hail  formerly  brought  suddenly  disap- 
peared, he  lieeuiue  melancholy,  had  thoughts  of  destroying  himself, 
and  then  recollecting  to  Uv»  rernl  of  a  hermit  who,  haying  fruitlessly 
petitioned  for  a  favour  from  God,  determined  to  eat  nothing  until  hia 
prayers  were  heard,  he  also  resolved  to  do  the  same ;  he  persevered  for 
a  week,  and  then  at  the  command  of  his  spiritual  director  left  off  fast- 
ing. His  troubles  ceased,  and  he  now  began  to  wax  into  a  saint.  He 
had  a  vision  of  the  mystery  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  of  which  he  spoke, 
although  he  could  only  just  read  and  write,  with  so  muoh  light,  and 
with  such  sublime  expressions,  that  the  most  ignorant  were  instructed 
and  the  most  learned  delighted.  Nay,  he  wrote  down  his  conceptions 
of  this  mystery,  but  we  lament  to  say  that  his  manuscript  was 
unfortunately  lost.  His  virions  began  to  multiply,  the  most  remarkable 
of  which  was  an  eitacy,  which  lasted  eight  days,  neither  more  nor  loss. 
These  illuminations  were  so  convincing,  that  he  was  hoard  to  say 
that  had  the  revelulii'N.'  in  vi-r  I -i ■■  -u  recorded  in  ^rripture,  he  would 
still  have  maintained  them  to  the  last  drop  of  his  blood.  Tile 
heavenly  favours  he  thus  received  he  opened  in  part  to  his  ghostly 
directors,  but  with  this  esceprini],  he  shut  them  up  in  his  own  heiirt. 
His  efforts  to  conceal  himself  from  the  eyes  of  men  were  vain;  his 
austerities  and  extacies,  aided  by  tin  belief  of  his  being  a  man  ef 
quality  in  disguise,  attracted  crowds  of  people  to  see  and  hear  him, 
sod  he  was  pronounced — a  saint. 

"  Notwithstanding  that  the  necessary  consequence  of  actions  like 
these  was  to  attract  the  attention  of  the  world,  he  is  described  as  being 
desirous  of  withdrawing  himself  from  the  notice  and  esteem  of  men, 
and  he  resolved  to  carry  into  execution  a  design,  which  he  had  long 
nourished,  of  visiting  the  Holy  Land.  He  accordingly  proceeded  to 
Barcelona,  where  he  embarked  on  board  a  ship  about  to  sail  for  Italy, 
landed  at  Gayeta  in  1523,  and  proceeded  on  6iot  to  Koine,  where  ho 
received  the  Pope's  benediction,  urn!  obtained  permission  to  make  a 
pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem.  From  Rome  he  went  to  Venice,  where  he 
embarked,  and  arrived  at  Jerusalem  on  the  4th  of  September  in  that 

"  Here  his  heart  was  touched  with  the  most  tender  devotion,  and 
he  began  to  deliberate  whether  he  should  fix  his  residence  on  the 
illustrious  soil  '>f  Judica,  and  apply  himself  to  the  conversion  of  the 
infidels.  For  his  greater  satisfaction,  he  ■'.insulted  the  superior  of  the 
Franciscans,  who  had  tho  care  of  the  H.-ly  Sepulchre  ;  the  superior 
remitted  him  to  the  Father  Provincial,  who  counselled  him  to  return 
to  Europe:  but  Ignatius,  having  some  scruples  about  abandoning 
his  design,  answered  the  Provincial,  that  notbing  but  the  fear  of. 
displeasing  God  should  make  him  leave  the  Holy  Land.  '  Why  then,' 
said  the  Provincial,  '  you  shall  be  gone  to-morrow  ;  I  have  power  from 
the  holy  see  to  send  back  what  pilgrims  I  please,  and  you  cannot  resist 
me  without  offending  God,'  Ignatius  submitted  without  another 
word,  left  Jerusalem  on  the  following  day,  and  arrived  at  Venice  about 
the  end  of  January,  1524.  A  Spanish  merchant  at  this  place  forced 
him  to  take  fifteen  or  sixteen  reals,  but  on  his  coming  to  Ferrara  he 
gave  a  real  to  the  first  beggar  that  held  out  his  hand ;  a  second  come, 


and  lie  gave  him  another.  These  liberalities  drew  nil  the  hcsear*  t™ 
him,  «nil  ho  refused  none  so  lone;  us  his  money  lusted,  and  when  in. 
had  dons  h,i  lic-j-iin  b>  b.-i;  J i L 1 1 1 ~i  1 T,  whereupon  tboy  ^rieJ  out,  A  mini, 
ii  miiit  I1  He  needed  no  more  t.>  make  liiui  leave  the  place  ;  lie  con- 
tinued his  journey  llirmi^li  Lombiirdy  t"  tlenon,  where  he  embarked 
for  Barcelona.  Daring  hit-  voyage  Frum  the  Holy  Land,  he  hud 
reflected  u  good  deal  on  tin:  subject  of  converting  the  infidele.  and 
considering  that  without  the  uid  or'  human  learning  his  efforts  would 
be  eon ] Birn lively  inefficacious,  tie  ili-t.-riuincil  to  put  himself  under  tin 
rare  of  Ardebaln.  the  muster  ol"  Hie  gfumniar  school  nt  llarcelona.  He 
was  now  thirty-Tjirei'  _v.-ii.t-.-i  of  age.  On  his  arrival  at  lSiircelon».  he 
fell  to  the  study  or  the  rudiments  of  the  Latin  language,  and  went 
ever;  day  to  school  with  the  little  children;  but  whilst  his  master 
■  ■...-  i  \fil.iimii_-  tin  rules  .if  grammar,  lie  was  deeply  engaged  with  llic 
mysteries  of  fnith.  This  distraction  of  attention  lie  ascribed  to  the 
powers  of  darkness,  and  made  a  vow  to  continue  his  studies  witii 
greater  application;  nay,  he  requested  of  Ardebalo  to  require  tiio 
same  task  from  him  as  the  rest  nf  tin;  Imys,  and  if  lie  did  not  perform 
it.  to  punish  htm  us  lie  punished  Hum.  by  reprimands  and  stripes.  Wo 
(In  not  learn  whether  the  mutter  was  necessitated  to  quicken  lii* 
scholar's  diligence  in  the  way  suggested,  hut  it  is  cur  tit  in  tliut  he  new 
jiroeeeded  in  his  studies  with  isnn-li  greater  facility.  About  this  tint? 
he  read  the  Eti'-liiriMm,  MUM*  Chri*li<uii  of  Erasmus,  which  lual 
been  recommended  to  him,  but  find  ins  that  it.  «anted  fervour,  and.  ill 
1 1.1;,  diiiiiiiinln-d  bis  devi.i.ii in  and  exercises  of  piety  (and  wan  probably 
reducing  liim  inn  reasonable  Christian),  In;  threw  away  I  lie.  book,  ami 
conceived  sueh  a  horror  of  it,  that  he  would  never  read  it  more,  nnd 
when  he  became  I  bn.Tal  of  Hie  Jesuits.  ordered  tliut  the  sooicti  sli.ml.l 
not  rend  the  works  of  Kra.siuiis.  lining  re-mtii! dished  in  his  health,  lie 
r.  :.■■■.'.-.  d  l,is  jilsl  .1  it.es,  hill,  iin  1 1;.-  ,•;•  I,--  ■  ■!'  sllidy,  r.  t : ,  ■,,:,..,  |  ;l  |,  :; 
nf  his  seven  hours  of  prayer.  John  1'aseal,  n  devout  vouth,  the  eon 
of  the  woman  with  whom  he  lodged,  would  frequently  rise  in  the  night 
to  observe  what  Ignatius  was  doing  in  his  chamber,  and  eomeliniti 
he  saw  him  on  his  knees,  at  oihers  prostrate  on  the  ground,  and  once 
he  thought  lie  .saw  bun  elei  uted  from  the  earth,  and  surrounded  witii 
light,  or  as  ] in  11  er  expresses  it  in  ins  Hndibriu — ■ 
"  '  Hang  like  Mahomet  in  th'  air, 
Or  Saint  Ignatius  at  his  prayer.' 
"But  whilst  Ignatius  was  labouring  after  his  own  perfection,  lie 
did  not  neglect  that  of  his  neighbour,  employing  those  hours  wliirh 
were  not  devoted  to  study,  in  withdrawing  souls  from  vice,  by  striking' 
examples  and  edifying  discourses.  Remarkable  instances  of  his 
■e  related,  and  on  one  oeeasion   liis  interfereuee  cost  him.  t> 


ut  Hiiieeiona,  h 

University  of  Aleala,  to  which  plaoe   1 

young  men,  whom  ho  hud  brought  in 


i  of  philosophy  at  tl 
went  accompanied  by  (linn 
the  way  of  virtue,  and  wlw 


369 


j  him :  to  then  be  added  ■  fourth  on  his 
arrival  at  Alok  He  had  ma  trmer  arrived  than  he  began  to  «tudy 
with  inch  extrera*  ojDwn  applying  himwlf  to  ao  many  «eieni-es 
at  onre,  that  hii  HiiiliiilMiaiiii   In  laain  emfuaed,  and  hi*  labour  pro- 

-  aedimh  hi*  K — 


tittle  progrtat.  be  emptmed 
1  «naiBiii  the  sick  b> 
I  by  Ifaatina  in  Akal» 
kMfth  fa»*  me 


u  About  this 
partly  from  bia  ■— teritiai.  asd  partlT 
idnaed  by  bia  phyaieiaiia  In  try  t' 
adTtea  which  he  the  awae  readili 
hu  «aupacioti»  i    ' 
i    ibMiluUlj 


•atj*   bemg  afflicted 

and  pert!  t  ft™  the  ei  uaate  of  Paria,  ■ 
he  benefit  of  hia  aatna  air;    aa 
adopted,  frtj  beeaaae  three  of 


f  suocess  which  attended  hi! 
preaching :  it  will  be  sufficient  to  apprize  our  readers,  that  as  soon  u 
he  preached  against  the  immnd est  attire  of  the  women,  it  lllwUNHIlJ 
that  the  same  day  he  denounced  gaming,  the  gamesters  threw  their 
dice  Into  the  river :  that  the  courtezans  made  ho]]1  pilgrimages  m 
foot,  and  the  blasphemers  ceased  to  muse. 

"  Although  this  sketch  of  the  life  of  Ignatius  Loyola  bean  on 

Eroportion  to  the  details  which  have  been  given  of  it  by  about  twMit» 
iograpbers,  it  is,  we  conceive,  sufficiently  ampJa  to  enable  the  reader 
lo  form  a  correct  judgment  of  his  character.  It  has  been  tliour;Jit 
that  the  society  of  Jesuits  owed  its  origin  to  the  enthusiasm,  ralli.r 
than  the  policy,  of  its  founder.1  Let  the  reader  trace  him  from  bts 
conversion  to  his  ileuili.  fallow  him  through  his  rigorous  infliction  "f 
self-punishment,  hi*  fastings  until  exhausted  nature  was  ready  w 
sink  under  hi*  sevi-re  austerities,  his  voluntary  lieggary,  hit  gmvin:,' 
reputation  fnr  sanctity,  his  flight  from  public  notice  and  reverem* 
whilst  he  pursued  the  eery  means  to  obtain  them,  his  being  stamp"! 
a  saint,  his  application  to  human  learning,  the  unfolding  of  hi.-  vie*!, 
the  alteration  in  his  austerities,  iu  bin  habits  of  life  and  mode  rf 
dress,  and  be  will  probably  be  of  a  different  opinion.  Enthminaiu 
was  doubtless  the  inspiring  fountain  at  which  he  first  drank;  not  i» 
much,  however,  the  enthusiasm  of  an  ardent  and  noble  mind,  a»  » 
preternatural  excitement  caused  by  the  sort  of  reading  to  which  acci- 
dent invited  him,  working  on  a  debilitated  and  feverish  frame.  His 
enthusiasm,  after  the  first  ebullition,  seems  to  have  bad  a  method  in 
it ;  it  led  him  to  just  so  mucb  voluntary  suffering  as  was  necewatj 
to  gain  him  the  reputation  of  a  saint,  and  it  was  probably  at  tali 
species  of  fame  that  he  at  first  aimed :  his  affected  humility  *« 
...t-iiLilioii  ;  hU  pretended  seclusion,  notoriety;  ho  did  not  amend 
from  his  left  hand  what  his  right  hand  did,  he  distributed  the  alms  b» 
had  acquired  to  beggars,  and  as  soon  as  be  had  done  began  1» 
beg  himself,  to  the  admiration  of  the  professors  of  mendicity:  wiJ 
it  was  no  wonder  they  should  cry  out,  A  saint,  a  saint  I  He  did  nul 
retire  into  trackless  desert*  like  the  'eremites'  of  old,  but,  like  > 
retiring  beauty,  suffered  his  flight  from  the  world  to  be  seen,  and 
was  shocked  when  he  was  followed.  Whilst  rendering  himself  «n 
abject  of  loathing  and  disgust,  and  attenuating  bis  body  to  the  proper 
point  of  sanctity,  it  was  swelling  with  holy  pride  and  iawani 
gratulation ;  but  as  soon  as  this  port  of  his  object  was  once  seen» 
plished,  he  threw  off  his  tattered  robes  and  iron  chain,  he  diminished 
his  hours  of  prayer,  and  grander  prospects  and  mightier  power  bepm 
to  open  before  him.  Not  that  he  would  luivc  hesitated  to  coutiim' 
them  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  his  reputation  or  seenrine;  in 
important  object ;  but  what  is  to  be  remarked,  is,  that  those  tiling» 
which  he  hud  formerly  considered  indispensable  were  now  no  lone?1 
thought  so,  and  that  without  any  change  of  '' 

,    Bsvle, 


originally  made  them  necessary,  and 
visions  to  account  for  the  change, 
imagination  miglit  see  such  things  '  i 
the  conduct  of  Ignatius  marks  him 
calculating  politician,1  anil  the  visit 
longer  required  to  spread  his  nai 
Though   influenced  by 


371 

it  is  not  sufficient  to  resort  to 
For,  although  an  enthuiuastio 
dim  perspective,'  the  whole  of 
a  be  a  cool,  persevering,  and 
ins  themselves  ceased,  when  no 
me  and  consolidate  his  power, 
■mbition,  they  were  not  those  of 
wealth  or  rank,  but  of  real,  substantial  power;  and,  although  some 
obscure  thoughts  of  framing  a  religious  Order  might  have  obtruded 
upon  his  meditations  at  Manreza,  it  is  probable  that  the  precise 
nature  of  it  was  only  gradually  unfolded,  and  not  completed  until  be 
was  about  to  leave  Paris."  * 

The  latter  part  of  the  life  of  Ignatius  Loyola  bears  no  propertion 
to  its  outset.  Enthusiasm  had  abated,  and  policy  was  the  cynosure 
of  his  subsequent  career.  In  this  he  differs  from  Aleiius;  as  he 
became  more  active,  hi'  became  leas  a  Saint;  ami  as  his  mind  opened, 
and  reason  assumed  her  proper  station,  be  gradually  lost  the  fanatic 
in  the  designing  ["under  of  a  sect.  What  lie  retained  of  fanaticism 
was  chiefly  esterm.]  mid  artificial;  but  the  leading  features  of  bis 
life  accord  surprisingly  with  the  legtmUu-i  character  of  the  text. 
Hod  Loyola  remained  always  ignorant,  lie  liail  le.u  » I  ways  a  bi=ot; 
and,  judging  by  the  commencement  of  the  life,  would  have  died  as 
useless  and  as  burdensome  to  society  as  the  son  of  the  senator 
Hmfrmfam 


Note  3.    Page  48. 

"  This  story  is  told  in  Coiton's  Gou>w  Lboen'dr,  and  in  tho 
Metrical  Lives  of  the  Saints.  Hence  Julian,  or  Saint  Julian,  wua 
called  hotpitator,  or  the  gixlt  \nhnjOurf  and  the  Pater  Nosier  became 
famous,  which  be  used  to  say  for  the  souls  of  his  father  and  mother, 
whom  he  had  thus  unfortunately  killed.  The  peculiar  eicellencies 
of  this  prayer  are  displayed  by  Boeeace.  Chaucer,  speaking  of  the 
hospitable  disposition  of  his  Fraukelein,  says — 


11  This  history  is,  like  the  last,  related  by  our  compilers  in  the 
words  of  Julian's  Legend,  as  it  stands  in  Jacobus  de  Voroniue. 
Bollandus  has  inserted  Antuninua's  account  of  this  saiot,  Which 
appears  also  to  be  literally  the  same.  It  is  told,  yet  not  exactly  in 
the  samo  words,  by  Vincent  of  Beauvais." — Wartos. 

The  passage  in  Boccacio,  above  alluded  to,  is  as  follows  : — 
"  Falling  from  one.  discourse  to  another,  they  began  to  talk  of  such 
prayers  as  men  (iu  journey)  use  to  salute  God  with  all;  and  one  of 
the  thieves  (they  being  three  in  number)  spake  thus  to  -Hiualdo: 


:,  J'jiL.  KiimLi.:  I.J 


Sir,  let  it  bo  no  offence  that  I  desire  to  know,  what  prayer  you  most 
use  when  von  travel  on  the  way  ?  Whereto  Rinaldo  replied  in  this 
manner;  'fo  tell  yon  true,  sir,  I  am  n  man  gross  enough  in  sikIi 
divine  matter»,  as  meddling  more  with  merchandize,  than  I  do  with 
books.  Nevertheless,  nt  all  times,  when  I  am  thus  in  journey,  in  the 
morning  before  I  depart  my  chamber,  I  say  a  Paler  Notfer  and  an 
At-  Moria  for  the  souls  of  the  father  and  mother  of  St.  Julian:  aixl 
after  that,  I  pray  (Jim!  and  St.  Jcltak  to  semi  me  a  good  lodging  at 
night.  And  let  me  toll  you,  sir,  that  very  oftentimes  heretofore,  I 
have  met  with  many  great  dangers  iif»>n  the  way,  from  all  which 
1  escaped,  and  evermore  (when  night  drew  on)  I  came  to  an  exceeding 
good  lodging.  Which  makes  mo  believe  that  Saint  Julian  (in  honour 
of  whom  I  cpenlt  it.)  hath  begged  of  God  such  great  grace  for  mc: 
and  methioks,  that  if  any  day  I  should  fail  of  this  prayer  in  the 
morning,  I  cannot  travel  securely,  nor  come  to  a  good  lodging.  No 
doubt  then,  sir,  {ijnnh  the  other)  hut  you  have  said  that  prayer  this 
morning?  I  would  he  sorry  else,  said  Rinaldo-  such  aa  especial 
matter  is  not  to  be  neglected."— Secand  Day,  Novel  II.     1681. 


Note  4.    Page  55. 

"Certaine  troc.hisks1  there  be  made  of  it  viper,  called  by  theQreeki 
Ihfrinci :  for  which  poroese  they  rut  away  at  both  ends  as  toward  tbo 
hearl  as  the  taile,  the  breadth  of  fourt  tinkers,  tin  y  rip  her  bellie  also, 
and  take  out  thi-  jmrbagr  within  .  but  especially  they  rid  away  tlm 
blew  string  or  vcine  that  sticketh  close  to  tile  ridge-bone.  Which 
done,  the  rest  of  the  bod  it  they  seeth  in  a  pan  with  water  and  dill 
need,  until  nueh  time  as  nil  the  flesh  is  gone  from  the  chine:  which 
being  taken  away,  ami  all  the  priokic  bone*  thereto  belonging  the 
Utah  remaining,-  thoy  ineoqiorate  with  tine  dower,  ami  reduce  into 
troches,  which  being  dried  in  the  shade,  are  reserved  for  diverse  «set, 
and  enter  into  many  s.^vrai-'ir  anttdots  and  confections.  But  hen1 
it  is  to  bee  noted,  that  although  these  troches  bee  called  tberiaci."-  ni 
«re  they  made  of  i<ip<r\  tb-h  onely.  Some  there  he,  who  after  a  viper 
is  demised,  as  is  above  said,  take  out  the  fa!,  and  seeth  it  with  asestar 
ufoile  untill  the  one  halfo  Lee  consumed  ;  whii-li  servcth  to  drive  away 
is  beasts,  if  three  drop,  of  this  ointment  be  put  into  oila 
"      ver"_PJ,ni/'.    Wn(     ffU 


I.  1601. 


-Pliny's  Nat  1 


NOTES.  373 

"There  was  a  man  that  was  called  Cntolonapes,  he  was  ful  rich, 
and  hud  a  fair  castle  on  a  hill,  and  strong,  and  he  made  a  wal  all  about 
j'1  hill  right  strong  and  fay  re,  within  tic  had  a  fair  gardeine  wherin 
wan  many  trees  bearing  all  mailer  of  fruits  y'  he  might  fynd,  and  ht> 
bad  planted  thuriti  al  maner  of  herbs  of  good  snie!  and  that  hare 
llowers,  and  ther  wer  many  faite  wels,  and  by  them  wer  made  many 
bale  and  chambers  wel  dight  w1  gold  and  aswe,  and  he  had  made 
there  dy  verse  stories  of  bens  tea  and  birds  y'  song  and  turned  by  engin 
and  orbage  as  tbey  had  been  quick,  and  he  hod  in  his  gardeine  al 
thing  that  mi(,"ht  lie  ti  until  solace  und  comfort,  he  had  also  in  that 
gardeine  maydens  within  yL'  age  of  xv  yeare,  the  fairest  y*  he  myght 
rind,  and  men  children  of  the  same  age.  and  they  were  idol  h  Lid  tt  itti  .-I..:  h 
of  gold,  and  he  said  that  they  were  aungele,  and  he  caused  to  he  made 
certain  bils  and  enclosed  them  about  W  precious  stones  of  jasper  and 
ckristal,  and  set  in  gold  and  pearls,  and  other  maner  of  stones,  and  he 
hod  mode  a  conduit.- '  under  y"  earth,  so  that  whan  he  wold  y1'  wait) 
nm  sometime  with  milkc,  sometime  with  wine,  sometime  with  honey, 
and  this  place  is  called  Paradise,  and  when  any  yong  bachelor  of  the 
countrey,  knight  or  aqyer,  couieth  to  him  for  solace  and  disport,  he 
ledcth  them  into  his  paradise,  and  bliewtrth  tln-in  tk'se-  things  as  the 
songs  of  birds,  and  his  dnmosols.  ;md  wtJs  ;  and  tic  did  strike  dhurrso 
instruments  of  musykc,  in  a  high  tower  that  might  bs  heard,  anil 
sayd  they  were  aungels  of  god,  and  that  place  was  purudise,  that  god 
hath  graunted  to  those  that  beleued,  when  he  sayd  thus :  Dabo  «obit 
lerrara  fiaenleia  lacle  et  melle ;  that  is  to  say,  I  shall  give  you  laud 
flowing  with  mylk  and  hony.  And  than  tbifl  rych  man  dyd  these 
men  drinke  a  maner  of  driukr,  ■>f  whi'-li  they  were  drunken,  ami  hu 
sayd  to  them,  if  they  wold  dye  for  hia  sake,  when  they  were  dead, 
they  ahold  cotne  to  Ilia  paradise,  and  they  si i old  be  of  the  age  of 
those  maydens,  and  shold  d«i-ll  ahvay  iviih  them,  and  he  ahold  put 
them  in  a  fnyrer  paradise  where  they  timid  ie  god  in  joy.  and  in  his 
maiesty :  and  then  they  graunted  to  do  that  he  wold,  and  he  bade 
tiieni  go  and  sleay  such  a  lord,  or  a  man  of  the  countrey  that  lie  was 
wroth  with,  and  that  they  sholti  haue  no  dread  of  no  man.  And  if 
they  were  slaine  themaelfe  for  his  aake.  he  shold  put  them  in  his 
paradise  when  they  were  dead.  And  mi  went  it.,  si-  bachelors  to  sleay 
great  lords  of  the  countrey,  and  were  slain  tluinn-ift;  in  hone  to  havu 
that  paradise, and  thus  he  was  avenged  ol  his  enemies  thru  bis  d.  s.  r, 
and  when  rich  im-n  of  the  countrey  iit.-rcidvcd  this  cantcll  and  malice, 
and  the  will  of  this  Catolonaues,  they  gathered  them  together  and 
assayled  the  castel  and  slew  hym  and  destroyed  all  hi-  ^oods  und  his 
faire  places  and  riches  that  were  in  his  paradise ;  and  the  place  of 
tho  walls  is  there  yet.  and  some  other  tiling,  but  ilie  riches  are  not, 
and  it  is  not  long  ago  since  it  was  destroyed."-   Chap.  XC. 

The  latter  part  of  this  fable  is  the  story  of  the  Assassins,  whose 
Iuian  or  leader  was  known  by  the  appellation  of  the  "  Old  Man  of  the 
Mountains." 

From  Maude  vile  (or  rather  from  I'urchus's  rili/rim,  where  similar 
accounts  are    met  with},   Mr.   Sou they,  in    his  splendid    poem  of 


Page  ll 


"On  this  there  is  an  ancient  Kreteh  M'.kai.ite,  entitled.  'L'Orgueil 
ft  Pretomptio'i  tlr  I'  Kwpunvr  JonwiAN.'  This  is  also  the  story  of 
]',iii>jiT  kin {f  ni"  Sicily,  ji'i  old  Kiiifli-h  | ii urn  ■t  romance."  -WahtuS. 

An  entertaining  abstract  of  tliis  olii  romance  is  here  added,  from 
Mr.  Ellis's  Specimen». 

"  ROBERT  OF  CY6ILLE. 

"  Roliert  king  of  Sicily,  brother  !o  Pope  Urban  and  ti»  Valcmnnd 
emperor  of  Germany,  Was.  among  the  tmhI  powerful  and  valorous 
princes  of  Europe  ;  but  his  arrogance  ivl,j  still  more  conspicuous  than 
hu  power  or  his  valour.  Constantly  occupied  by  the  survey  of  his 
present  greatness,  or  by  project»  for  its  fill» re  intension,  he  considered 
the  pcrfiinnaner  of  his  religious  duties  us  insufferably  tedious;  and 
never  paid  bis  adorations  to  tin?  Supreme  Uciug  without  evident 
reluctance  nud  disgust.  His  guilt  was  great;  and  his  punishment 
was  speedy  and  exemplary. 

"Once  upon  a  time.  I  wing  present  during  vespers  on  the  eve  ti 
St.  John,  liu  attention  «in  excited  by  [lie  following  passage  in  the 
Magnificat ;  'deposuit  potentes  de  sede.  nt  eiultavit  humiles.'  He 
inquired  of  a  rlxrk  the  meaning  of  there  words;  and,  Laving  heard 
the  explanation,  replied  that  such  expressions  «ere  very  foolish,  sinco 
fie,  being  the  very  flower  of  chivalry,  was  too  mighty  to  be  thrown 
down  from  his  seat,  and  hail  iv  appveboiisi'iu  of  seeing  others  exalted 
»i  his  expense.  The  olerk  did  not  presume  to  attempt  any  remon- 
strance; the  service  continued  ;  l!'->!.ei-t  thought  it  longer  and  mora 
tedious  than  ever ;  and  at  last  fell  fast  asleep. 

"His  slumber  was  not  interrupted,  nor  indeed  noticed  by  any  of 
the  congregation,  because  an  angel  having  in  the  mean  time  assumed 
hi-  features,  together  with  the  royid  robes,  had  been  attended  by  tho 
usual  officers  to  the  palace,  where  supper  was  immediately  served. 
Knbert,  howBYor,  awaked  at  the  close  of  day ;  was  much  astonished 
by  the  darkness  of  the  eliuieli.  and  not  less  so  by  the  solitude  which 
surrounded  him.  He  began  to  call  loudly  for  his  attendants,  and  el 
length  attracted  the  notice  of  the  sexton,  who,  conceiving  him  to  be  ■ 
thief  secreted  in  the  church  for  the  purpose  of  stealing  the  saered 
ornaments,  approached  the  door  with  sonic  precaution,  and  transmitted 
his  suspicions  through  the  key-hole.  Robert  indignantly  r-pellcd 
causation,  affirming  that  he  was  the  king;  upon  which  thr 
.  persuaded  that  he  hud  lost  his  senses,  and  not  ut  all  desirous 
of  having  a  madman  under  his  care,  opened  the  door,  and  was  glnd 
to  see  the  supposed  maniac  run  with  all  speed  to  the  palace.  But  the 
palace  gates  were  shut;  and  Robert,  whose  temper  was  never  very 
enduring,  and  was  now  exasperated  by  rago  ancl  hunger,  vainly  »t- 
tcm  jiteii  by  threats  of  uupAwnnMiA,  sad  even  of  death,  to  subdue  tho 


NOTES.  375 

contumacy  of  the  porter.  While  the  metamorphosed  monarch  was 
renting  hie  rage  at  the  gate,  thin  officer  hastened  to  the  hall,  and 
falling  on  his  liners,  requested  his  sovereign' n  orders  concerning  a 
madman,  who  loudly  assorted  his  right  to  the  throne.  The  angel 
directed  that  he  should  be  immediately  admitted ;  and  Hobert  at 
length  appeared,  covered  with  mud,  in  consequence  of  an  affray  in 
wliioli  in-  had  flattened  the  porter's  nose,  and  had  been  himself  rolled 
in  a  puddle  by  the  porter's  assistants. 

"Without  paying  the  least  attention  to  the  accidental  circum- 
stances, or  the  clamours  of  the  wounded  man,  who  loudly  demanded 
justice,  he  rushed  up  to  the  throne;  and  though  a  good  deal  startled 
at  finding  not  only  that,  and  all  the  attributes  of  royalty,  but  even 
his  complete  set  of  features,  in  the  possesion  of  another,  he  boldly 
proceeded  to  treat  the  angel  as  an  impostor,  threatening  him  with  the 
vengeance  of  the  pope  and  of  the  emperor,  who,  he  thought,  could 
not  fail  of  distinguishing  the  true  from  the  fictitious  sovereign  ot 


"  'Thou  art  my  foul !'  said  the  angel  ; 
'Thou  shalt  be  shorn,  every  deal 


I  thou 


a  fool  K 


dignity, 
mine  counsellor  shall  be  an  ape  ; 
And  o1  clothing  you  shall  be  shape. — 
He  shall  ben  thine  own  fere: 
Some  wit  of  him  thou  might  lere, 
Hounds,  how  so  it  befalle, 
Khali  eat  with  thee  in  the  hall. 
Thou  .shalt  eaten  on  the  ground; 
Thy  'sayer  shall  ben  an  hound. 
To  assay  thy  meat  before  thee; 
For  thou  hast  lore  thy  dignity.' 

"  He  cleped  a  barber  him  before, 
That,  as  a  fool,  he  should  be  shore. 
All  around  like  a  frere, 
An  haade-breds a  above  the  car; 
And  on  his  crown  makell  »  cross.* 
He  gan  cry  and  make  noise  ; 
An. I  sniil  thi-v  slumld  all  abye, 
That  did  Urn  swich  villainy,  etc 

"  Thus  was  Robert  reduced  to  the  lowest  state  of  human  degrada- 
tion ;  mi  object  of  contempt  and  derision  in  those  whom  lie  had  been 
accustomed  to  despise;  often  milV-r in ■;  from  hunger  and  thirst;  and 
seeing  bis  sufferings  inspire  no  mure  compassion  than  those  of  the 
allium!-  with  whom  he  shared  his  pru-arious  and  disgusting  repast. 
Yet  his  pride  and   petulance  were   uot  subdued.    To  the   frequent 


inquiries  of  the  angel,  whether  he  still  thought  himself  si  kin;,  lis 
continued  to  answer  by  haughty  denunciations  of  vengeance,  ami  «v 
incensed  almost  to  madness,  when  this  reply  excited,  as  it  constuuvlj 
did.  a  general  bunt  of  laughter. 

■■  In  the  mean  time,  Robert's  dominions  were  admirably  govenral 
by  his  angelio  substitute.    The  country,  always  fruitful,  became  » 
paragon  of  fertility ;  abuses  were  checked  by  a  severe  udniiisi^nsn  " 
of  equal  justice:  and,  for  a  time,  all  evil  propensities  seemed  ti 
eradicated  from  the  hearts  of  tbe  happy  Sicilians — 

"  Every  man  loved  well  other ; 


1b 


«joyful  thing 


I  join  him  mi 


"  At  the  end  of  about  three  years  arrived  : 
Sir  Valemond  the  emperor,  requesting  that  Robert  would  join  hi 
hnly  Thursday,  at  Rome,  whither  he  proposed  to  go  on  a  visit  le  iw 
brother  Urban.  The  angel  welcomed  the  ambassadors;  bestowed  on 
them  garments  lined  witli  ermine  and  embroidered  with  jewels,  soti- 
quhitely  wrought  as  to  eioite  universal  astonishment ;  and  dsparlti 
in  their  company  to  Rone. 


:t  also  went, 


"  The  fool 
I'lniii'"!  in  loathly  garncment, 
With  fbi-tails  riven  all  about: 
Men  might  him  Itnowon  in  the  root. 
An  ape  rode  of  his  clothing ; 
So  foul  rode  never  king. 

"These  strange  figures,  contrasted  with  the  unparalleled  n. 
J-i  infinite  mer 

l  were  enlivened  tj 


1™, 


ihem  for  thus  joining  in  an  unnatural  conspiracy  with  trio  usurper  of 
his  throne.  This  violent  sally,  however.  »■«  received  hv  his  hniiliiT-. 
and  by  the  whole  papal  court,  aa  an  undoubted  proof  of  his  madness; 
and  he  now  learnt  for  the  first  time  the  real  eiteut  of  his  misfortune. 
His  stubbornness  and  pride  gave  way,  and  were  succeeded  by  sepli- 
uiciits  of  re  morse  and  penitence. 

"  We  have  already  seen,  that  he  was  not  very  profoundly  versed  in 
Scripture  history,  but  he  now  fortunately  recollected  two  e.vamplw 
which  he  considered  as  nearly  similar  to  bis  own;  those  of  Nebuchad- 
nezzar and  Holofernea.  Recalling  to  his  mind  their  greatness  ami 
degradation,  he  observed  that  (Juj  alone  had  bestowed  on  them  tlu.1 
power  which  he  afterwards  auuihilated. 


*"5o  hath  he  mine,  for  my  gult) 

Now  am  1  full  lowe  pule  ; 

And  that  is  right  that  I  so  bo : 

Lord,  on  thy  fool  have  thou  pitt. 
"'That error  hath  mnde  me  to  amort 

That  I  had  in  my  heart ; 

Lord,  I  'leved  not  on  thee  : 

Lord,  on  thy  fool  have  thou  pitfi. 

" '  Holy  writ  t  had  in  despite ;  , 
Therefore  reaved  is  my  light; 
Therefore  is  right  a  fool  that  I  be  : 
Lord,  on  thy  fool  have  thou  pite,'  ete. 

"Tlie  sincerity  of  his  contrition  is  evinced,  in  the  original,  by  a 
long  aeries  of  such  atuuzaa,  with  little  variation  of  thought  or  espres- 
aiou  ;  but  the  foregoing  specimen  will,  perhaps,  suffice  for  the  satisfac- 
tion of  the  reader. 

•'  After  live  weefcs  spent  in  Borne,  the  emperor,  and  the  supposed 
hing  of  Sicily,  re  1 1  Med  to  their  respective  dominium,  Robert  being  atill 
accoutred  in  his  fos-taila,  and  accompanied  by  his  ape,  wbora  ha  now 
ceased  to  consider  as  Ida  inferior.  When  returned  to  the  palace,  tlie 
angel,  before  the  whole  court,  repented  his  usual  question ;  but  the 
penitent,  far  from  persevering  iu  hia  former  insolence,  humbly  replied, 
■  that  he  was  indeed  a  fool,  or  worse  thuu  a  fool ;  but  that  he  hail  nt 
least  acquired  a  perfect  indifference  for  all  worldly  dignities.'  The 
attendants  were  now  ordered  to  retire  ;  and  the  angel,  being  left  alone 
with  Robert,  informed  him  that  Ida  sins  were  forgiven;  gave  him  a 
few  salutary  admonitions,  aud  added — 


Sent  to  keep  thy  regions. 

More  joy  me  shall  foil 

In  heaven,  among  mine  ferea  all, 

In  an  hoar  of  a  day, 

Than  here,  1  thee  say, 

In  an  hundred  thousand  year; 

Though  all  the  world,  far  aud  n< 

Were  mine  at  my  liking: 

I  am  an  angel  ;  thou  art  king  ! ' 


"  With  these  words  he  disappeared  ;  and  Robert,  returning  (o  the 
ball,  received,  not  without  some  surprise  and  confusion,  the  uaual 
salutationa  of  the  courtiers. 

"  From  this  period  he  continued,  during  three  years,  to  reign  with 
so  much  justice  and  wisdom  that  his  subjeota  had  no  cause  to  regret 
the  ohange  of  ttu-ir  sovp reign  :  ali'T  which,  being  warned  by  the  angel 
of  his  approaching  dissolution,  be  dictated  to  hia  secretaries  a  full 
account  of  his  former  perrerseness,  and  of  ita  strange  punishment ; 
and,  having  sealed  it  with  the  royal  signet,  ordered  it  to  be  sent,  for 
the  ediflcatbn  of  his  brothers,  to  Rome  and  Vienua.    lirtii  KwivseA. 


378  NOTES. 

with  due  respect,  the  important  ImDC  :  the  emperor  often  recnllwld 
with  b-mlemess  and  compassion  the  degraded  situation  of  the  Tnlis.nl 
Itobert ;  and  the  pope,  besides  availing  himself  of  the  fltory  in  a  num- 
be»  of  sermons  add  rcssed  to  the  faithful,  caused  it  *~  " 
preserved  iu  the  archives  of  the  Vaticun,  its  a  eons  tan  t 
pride,  and  an  incitement  to  the  performance  of  our  religion 

The  story  of  "The  King  of  Thibet  and  the  Princess  of  tlw 
Naimaus"  in  the  I'-rtinu  and  Turkish  Tul?>,  presents  an  iiiciJi •■■'■ 
h'linewhat  similar,  Hut  the  assumption  of  another's  likeness  is  • 
common  Eastern  figment. 


carrfnllj 
.ingapaiti.-t 


Nori    7.     Page  HI. 

•'This  in  the  Fnble  of  ParneU'e  Hermit,  which  that  elegant  aid 
original  writer  lias  bi-i^litrrW  with  iminv  muster]  v  touches  fit"  findi'il 
I'.ilouring,  and  a  happier  arrangement  of  circumstances.  Arms 
other  proofs  which  might  bo  mentioned  of  Pamell'a  genius  sad 
:ulilri'."ti  in  treating  this  subject,  by  reserving  the  discovery  "!' *'"' 
angel  to  u  critical  pi-riml  at  the  close  of  the  fable,  he  bus  foulnl  nrs'1- 
'o  introduce  a  beautiful  description,  and  un  interesting  surprint."- 


Wai 


s  the  it 


THE  HERMIT. 

■  wild,  unknown  to  public  vies 


.is  bed.  the  i 
m  fruits,  h 


.bins 


cell, 


lemote  from  men.  with  God  he  pass'd  his  di 
'ray'r  all  hi»  business,  all  his  pleasure  praii 

A  life  so  sacred,  such  serene  repose, 
•eem'd  heaven  itself,  till  one  suggestion  rosi 
'ha!  vice  should  triumph,  virtue  vice  obey, 
'his  sprung  some  doubt  of  Providence's  swa 
li-  hopes  :n.  more  a  certain  prospect  boast, 
Intl  all  the  te 


of  his 


lature's  image  on  its  wat'ry  breast, 
bend  the  banks,  the  trees  depending  grow, 
'      eath  with  answering  colours  glow  i 


Swift    1" 


M  the  gentle  si 


.Ir.l  irltnvmevini;  tYi  laments  of  a  broken  sun, 
IVinks.  trees,  nn.l  ■kii-s  in  thick  disorder  rnn. 

To  clear  this  doubt,  to  know  the  world  by  sight, 
Tii  [in. I  ii"  hunk-,  ui'  Mviiins.  report  it  right, 
(For  vet  hy  swab»  alone  the  world  he  knew, 
Whose  feet  came  wand'ring  o'er  the  nightly  dew) 


BOTES. 

H"  quit's  his  cell ;  the  pilgrim's  alnff  he  bore, 
And  ii  i'd  the  scallop  in  his  hat  before  : 
Then  with  the  suu  a  rising  journey  went, 
Sedate  tu  think,  and  watching  each  event. 

The  morn  was  wasted  in  the  pathless  grass, 
And  long  and  lonesome  was  the  wild  to  pass  ; 

A  youth  came  pnsting  o'er  the  r-mssing  way  I 
His  raiment  decent,  his  complexion  fair, 
And  soft  in  graceful  ringlets  wav'd  his  hair. 
Then  near  approaching,  '  Father,  hail  I '  he  cried, 
And  '  Hail,  my  son,'  the  rev'rend  sire  replied  ; 
Words  follow  d  words,  from  question  answer  How'l 
And  talk  of  various  kind  deceiv'd  the  road. 
Till  each  with  other  plsas'd,  and  loth  to  part, 
While  in  their  age  they  differ,  join  in  heart. 
Thus  stands  an  aged  elm  in  ivy  bound, 
Thus  youthful  ivy  clasp»  an  elm  around. 
Now  sunk  the  si 


ailed  o'er  with 
e  bid  the  world  ri 


'd  thei! 


rard,  i 
Nature  in  silen. 
When  near  the 
There  by  the  in 
Whose  verdure  craw 
It  i-innrM  the  noble 
-iiil  nnde  his  house  the 
Vel  still  the  kindness,  fri 
Prov'd  the  vain  flourish  < 
■['in.  jiiiir  arrive;  the  liv'ried  servants  wait; 
Their  lord  receives  them  at  the  pompous  gate. 
The  table  groans  with  costly  piles  of  food, 
And  all  it  more  than  hospitably  good. 
Then  led  to  rest,  the  day's  long  toil  thev  drown, 
Deep  sunk  in  sleep,  and  silk,  and  heaps  of  dnwu. 

At  length,  'tis  mom,  and,  at  the  dawn  of  day. 
Along  the  wide  canals  the  zephyrs  play  : 
Krei-h  u'er  the  gay  parterres  the  breeies  creep. 
And  shake  the  neighb'ring  wood  to  hruiisii  >!•■-_■[■■ 
Up  rise  the  guests,  obedient  to  the  call ; 
An  early  banquet  deck'd  the  splendid  hall; 
Hi.  h  lu.-dous  wine  a  golden  goblet  grsc'tt, 
Which  the  kind  master  fore'd  his  guests  to  taste. 
Then  pleas'd  and  thankful,  from  the  porch  th 
And,  but  tbe  landlord,  none  had  cause  for  wo 
His  cup  was  vanish'd  ;  for  in  secret  guise, 
The  younger  guest  purloin'd  the  glittering  pi 

As  one  who  spies  a  serpent  in  his  way, 
Glist'ning  and  basking  in  the  sunny  ray. 


ofpra 


iy  s°; 


Then  w 


It  faint 


d  tb* 


anger  n<     . 
is  on,  and  looks  w 


NOTES. 

So  seem'd  the  sire  ;  when,  Tar  upon  the  road, 
The  shining  spoil  his  wily  pnrtnur  shew'd  : 
He  itopp'd  with  silence,  walk'd  with  trembling  heart, 
And  much  he  wiih'd,  but  durst  not  ask,  to  part; 
-  -  L  -  lifts  his  eyas,  and  thinks  it  hard 


Thai 


Whi 


flL    f. 


Th. 


thus  they 


is  glory  shiou 


Wl 


hang  out 
presag'd  approaching  rain, 
nd  beasts  to  covert  scud  across  the  plain, 
t'd  by  the  signs,  the  wand'ring  pair  ret 
ek  for  shelter  at  a  neighb'ring  seat. 
,  built  with  turrets  on  a  rising  ground, 
strong,  and  large,  and  unimprov'd  arou 


:ind  and  griping,  caus'd  a  desert  there. 
s  sear  the  miser's  heavy  doors  they  drew, 
•ce  rising  gusts  with  sadden  fury  blew; 
nimble  light'ning  mii'd  with  show'ra  began, 
.  o'er  their  heads  loud  rolling  thunders  ran. 
e  long  they  knock,  but  knock  or  call  in  vain, 
r'n  by  the  wind,  and  batter'd  by  the  rain, 
length  some  pity  warm'd  the  master's  breast, 
.■as  then  his  threshold  first  roeeiv'd  a  guest,) 
v  creaking  turns  the  door  with  jealous  care, 
i  shiv'ring  pair ; 

.heir  limbs  recalls ; 
Bread  of  the  coarsest  sort,  with  eager  '  wine, 
(Each  hardly  granted)  served  them  both  to  dine 
And  when  the  tempest  first  appear'd  to  cease, 
A  ready  warning  bade  them  part  in  peace. 

With  still  remark  the  poi 
la. 


rugal  faggot  lights  tl 


a  life  i 


w'd, 


•  And  whv  should  such,'  within  himself  he  cried, 
'  Lock  the  lost  wealth  a  thousand  want  beside  ? ' 
Gut  what  new  marks  of  wonder  soon  took  place, 
In  every  settling  feature  of  his  face ; 
When  from  his  vest  the  young  companion  bore 
That  cup  the  jri.-u'ruu.i  IjnJIuvd  uwn'd  before, 
And  paid  profosely  with  the  jirecious  bowl 
The  stinted  kindness  of  the  churlish  soul. 

The  sun  emerging  ops  an  azure  sky  ; 
A  fresher  green  the  smelling  leaves  display, 
Ami.  glitt'ring  as  they  tremble,  cheer  the  dav  [ 
'Hie  weather  tempts  them  from  the  poor  retreat, 
And  the  glad  master  holts  the  wary  gate. 


NOTES. 

While  hence  they  walk,  the  pilgrim'»  bosom 
With  all  the  travel  of  uncertain  thought ; 
Hi»  partner's  acts  without  their  cause  appen 
T«i!  there  a  vice  and  seem'd  a  madness  her 
Detesting  that,  and  pitying  this,  he  goes, 
Lost  and  confonnded  with  the  various  shows, 
ight's  dim  shades  again  involve  the  I 


l  lodging  nigh. 

.-.  aor  Idly  great: 

i  of  mind, 


Again  thev  search,  a    '  * 
1h,.-s,,il  improved  nr. 
-\nd  :L-it  li  .■  i   j.nnrly  Ion- 
It  Heem'd  to  speak  its  n 
Content, — and  not  for  praise,  bat  vi 

Hither  the  walkers  turn  with  weary  feet, 
Then  bless  the  mansion,  and  the  master  greet : 
irnii-  |rwtt»|  fair,  bestow'd  with  modest  guise, 

'  Without  a  vain,  without  a  grudging  heart, 
To  him,  who  givus  us  all,  1  yield  a  part , 
From  him  vou  come,  for  him  accept  it  here, 
A  frank  and  sober,  more  than  costly  cheer.' 
He  spoke,  and  bid  the  welcome  table  spread, 
Then  ulk'd  of  virtue  till  the  time  of  bed, 
Whm  the  grave  household  round  his  hall  repair, 
Warn'd  by  »  bell,  and  close  the  hours  with  pray'r. 
At  length  the  world,  renew'd  by  calm  repose, 
Was  strong  for  toil,  the  dappled  mom  arose; 
Before  the  pilgrims  part,  the  younger  crept 
Sear  the  clos'd  cradle,  nh-.ri:  (in  int'ant  slept. 
And  writh'd  his  naek:  the  landlord's  little  pride. 
O  strange  return  1  grew  black,  and  gasp'd,  and  diec 
Horrors  of  horrors !  what  t  his  only  son  I 
How  look'd  the  hermit  when  the  fact  was  done  ; 
Not  hell,  tho'  hell's  black  jaws  in  sunder  part. 
And  breathe  bine  fire,  could  more  assault  his  heart 

Confus'd,  and  struck  with  silence  at  the  deed, 
Ha  Hies,  but  trembling  falls  to  fly  with  speed. 
ili-  ataM  the  youth  pursues  :  the  country  lay 
lVr;d<ii'd  with  roads,  a  servant  show'd  the  way  : 
A  river  cross'd  the  path  ;  the  passage  o'er 
Was  nice  to  find  -,  the  servant  trod  before ; 
ak  an  open  bridge  supplied, 


p  the- 


The  youth. 

Approarh'd  the  careless  guide,  and  thrust  him  in  : 
1'lunging  he  falls,  nnd  rising  lifts  his  head. 
Than  Bartlng  turns,  and  sinks  amongst  the  dead. 
Wild,  sparkling  rage  inflames  the  father's  eyes, 
He  bursts  the  bands  of  fear,  nnd  madly  ories, 
'  Detested  wretch  ' — but  scarce  his  speech  began, 
n  the  strange  partner  seem'd  no  longer  man 


Thu'  loud  it  first  the  pilgrim's  pa» ion  gre' 


<Thv  prsv'r,  thy  praise,  thy  life  to  vii 
IIWMt  memorial  rise  before  the  throne 


n'd,  1  forsook  the  sky  :- 


The  Maker  justly  claims  the  world  he 
Id  this  the  right  of  Providence  is  laid 
Its  sacred  majesty  thro'  all  depends. 


'n  using  s> 
'  lis  thus,  < 
The  Power 
Your 


roh  y..u 


u  high, 


' 


And  bids  the  doubting  sons  of  men  be  still. 

'  What  strange  events  can  strike  with  more  snr 
Than  those  which  lately  struck  thy  wond'ring  ey 
Yet,  taught  by  these,  confess  the  Almighty  jit, 
And,  where  you  can't  unriddle,  learn  to  trust  ! 

-The  great  vain  man,  who  far'd  on  costly  food, 
Whose  life  was  too  Insurious  to  be  good  ; 
Who  made  his  iv'ry  stands  with  goblets  shine. 
And  fore'd  his  guests  to  morning  draughts  of  win 
Has,  with  the  cup,  the  graceless  custom  lost. 
And  still  he  welcomes,  but  with  less  of  cost. 

'The  mean,  suspicious  wretch,  whose  bolted  dot 
Ne'er  mov'd  iu  pity  to  the  wand'ring  poor; 
With  him  I  left  the  cup,  to  leach  hia  mind 
That  Heav'ncan  bless,  if  mortals  will  be  kind. 
Conscious  of  wanting  worth,  he  views  the  bowl, 
And  feels  compassion  touch  hia  grateful  soul. 
Thus  artists  melt  the  sullen  ore  of  lead, 
With  heaping  coals  of  tire  upon  his  head  ; 
In  the  kind  warmth  the  metal  learns  to  glow, 
'  loose  from  dross  the  silver  runs  belo1 


I 


NOTES.  3S3 

But  now  the  child  half-wean'd  his  heart  frum  W  ; 
(Child  of  his  age)  for  him  he  liv'd  in  pain. 

To  what  excesses  had  his  dotage  run  ? 
But  flod,  to  save  the  father,  took  the  sod. 
To  all,  hut  thee,  in  fits  he  seern'd  to  go, 
(Arid  'twas  m;  ministry  to  deal  the  blow,) 
The  poor  fond  parent,  humbled  in  the  dust, 

HOW  Owns  tU  tears  tin:   JilihUhlliellt   was  just. 

1  But  how  had  all  his  fortunes  1'elt  a  wrack, 
Had  that  false  servant  sped  in  safety  back  ; 
This  night  his  treasur'd  heaps  he  meant  to  steal, 
And  what  a  fund  of  charity  would  fail ! 
Thus  Heav'n  instructs  tby'mind;  this  trial  o'er, 
Depart  in  peace,  resign  and  sin  no  more/ 

On  sounding  pinions  here  the  youth  withdrew, 
The  sage  slued  wondYiog  as  the  seraph  flew. 
Thus  look',!  Klishii,  when  to  mount  on  high, 
His  Master  took  the  chariot  of  the  sky  ; 
The  fiery  pomp  ascending  left  the  view  ; 
The  prophet  sai'.l.  and  wish'J  to  follow  too. 

The  bending  hermit  here  a  pray'r  begun, 

'  LOKD,  AS  IN  Hkav'N,  ON  EARTH  THY  WILL  BE  DOSE." 

Then,  gladly  tm-nuijr,  smiiriil  liii  indent  place, 
And  pass'd  a  life  of  piety  and  peace." 

ha  name  apologue  occurs,  with  some  slight  additions,  and 
8  for  the  worse,  in  Howell's  Lettkhs.  ;  who  professes  to  have 
Liken  it  from  tlii;  sjw-nliithv  Sir  I'liilip  Herbert's  Cokch-tions  to  hia 
Son,  a.  book  which  I  have  never  seen.  These  Letters  were  published 
about  the  year  1(150.  It  is  also  found  in  the  Divine  Dialogues  of 
Doctor  Henry  More,  who  has  illustrated  its  important  moral  with 
tin;  following  liiii;  reflections: — 

"•The  affairs  of  this  world  are  like  a  curious,  but  intricately 
contrived  comedy:  and  we  cannot  judge  of  the  tendency  of  what  fs 
past,  or  acting  at  present,  before  tilt*  entrance  of  the  last  act,  which 
shall  bring  in  righteousness  in  triumph:  who.  though  she  hath 
abided  many  a  brunt,  and  ban  been  verj  cruelly  mil  ,1.  spitefully  used 
hitherto  in  the  world,  yet  at  last,  woorailig  to  our  desires,  we  shall 
see  the  knight  ovore.-oue  the  i-iotit.  1'nr  wlmt  is  the  reason  we  aro 
so  much  pleased  witli  the  reading  roniuiuvs  ami  the  fiftiona  of  the 
poets,  but  that  here,  as  Aristotle  says,  things  are  set  down  as  thev 
should  be ;  but  iu  the  true  history  hitherto  of  the  world,  things  are 
recorded  indeed  as  they  are.  but  it  is  but  a  testimony,  that  they  have 
not  been  as  they  should  be?  Wherefore,  in  the  upshot  of  all,  when 
we  shall  see  that  come  to  pass  that  to  mlghtS;  pleases  us  in  the 
reading  the  most  ingenious  plays  and  heroic  poems,  that  long  airlifted 
virtue  at  lust  cornea  to  the  crown,  the  mouth  or'  all  unbelievers  must 
be  for  ever  atoppod.  And  for  my  own  part,  1  doubt  not  but  that  it 
will  so  come  to  pass  in  the  oloso  of  the  world,     but  lus.^.viWi.Vj  mi 


384 


NOTES. 


call  for  vengeance  upon  every  enormity  before  that  time,  ia  rudely  to 
overturn  the  stage  before  the  entrance  iDto  the  fifth  act,  out  of 
ignorance  (if  the  pint  nf  the  comedy  ;  and  to  prevent  the  solemnity  of 
the  genera!  judgment  hy  more  paltry  and  particular  executions.' 

"Pameli  stoma  I"  have  chicliv  followed  the  story  as  it  is  told  by 
thia  Platonic  theologiat>  who  had  not  less  imagination  than  learning. 
Pope  uned  to  eay  that  it  wan  originally  written  in  Spanish.  This  I 
dn  not  believe :  but  from  the  early  conniption  between  the  Spaniards 
and  Arabians,  this  assertion  tends  to  confirm  the  auapicion  that  it 
was  an  oriental  tale." ' — Wahtoh. 


Note  8.     Page  176. 

"  In  Adam  Davie's  Gest,  or  romance  of  AlesjlXDer  Nectabanus, 
a  king  and  magician,  fli.-e.,vr.«  tin;  niLC'hiiiiiti'.m-  <>t'  his  enemies  by 
embattling  them  in  figures  of  wax.  Thia  is  the  most  extensive 
necromantic  opemtkiii  .-.;'  the  liind  that  I  rem  ember,  and  must  have 
formed  a  puppet-show  equal  to  the  most  pplendid  pan 


"  F.iir'.n.  wrr, 
That  this  a] 


vhilnn 


veil  understood  : 


Quick  he  looked  ill  the  star; 

Of  wm  made  him  puppe'ts, 

Ami  made  them  light  with  hats :  ' 

And  so  he  learaod,  jc  votts  d. 

Ay  to  quell  his  enemy, 

With  chirms  nad  with  canjurison: 

Thus  he  e»s&yed  the  reginuns, 


And  be^pcnket.h  all  his  death. 
King  Philip  of  great  thede,' 


ir  thirty;  i.e.  fcirrfl. 


Aal  ^-=  Mb  mm^W  ■  ■"■  ML 

■m  ai  MHb  rich  na 

T,  _1,  «  k^bu,.-,,:' 


;SKT 


I»  ■  tan  «II  bt  r**n*  : 

Be  ■»  a  Ida  Ml  the  km; 

atntjrfUiaKMi 

WdUfchai  -:_--  H«aV 


Of  >□  that  cap  Uk  pot  «w. 

iVrw*n»  he  ten  a>  M«t  <■*  the  nM  Olyifa».  m 
pi»,  whik  ■»■■■&  who»  ha  riol»U»  in  the  «hepr  rf  «  dngni 

•ikbirbiiNibiWi, 

C**cnd  wdl  vita  aOai  m* 


Of  the 


After,  he  tat  Tjrp»  »■*,• 

Tit  pan'i  ubm  n  tit  >u  fat  vrtte, 

WUi »  «at  ■■>*  Am!  fa*: 

liiWhiiitii, 

AHm— irttt  raffitttht, 

TV»  im«I  Iwmlit 
TkyyiiKrWaT 
ih«  piU|tt,  a*  tie  «*, 

WU.WMHMJMJM, 

•W  »  »/  la  bar  ottnc  " 
«We  th-M>t  >  «mm  Mn  j 

T.  fa*  rl»>*T  far  »*.  fa»  **M, 


"  Theocritus.  Virgil,  and  Horace  have  left  instances  of  incanta- 
tions conducted  bj  figures  in  wax.  Irs  the  beginning  of  the  last  cen- 
tury, many  witches  wen:-  >-iocutfd  for  attempting  the  lives  of  persons, 
by  fabricating  representations  of  them  in  mi  and  clay.  King  James 
this  First,  in  hi»  DwoNOLOSDt,  speak»  of  the  practice  as  very  common  ; 
the  eflicaey  of  which  he  peremptorily  ascribes  to  the  power  of  the 
devil.1  His  majesty"»  oigumenU,  intended  to  prove  how  the  magi- 
cian's image  operated  on  the  person  represented,  arc  drawn  from  the 
depths  of  motu!.  lln-.ili>Lrii';il,  physical,  uml  metaphysical  knowledge 
The  Arabian  magic  abounded  with  these  infatuations,  which  were 
partly  founded  on  the  doctrine  of  sympathy. 

"  But  to  return  to  ths  Gesta  Eoiunouum.  In  this  story  one  of 
the  magicians  is  styled  niagiater  peritus.  and  Emmet™,.-»  simply  ui.e.'j;- 
ttr.  That  is,  a  cunning  man.  The  title  magUter  in  our  universities 
has  its  origin  from  t)io  use  of  this  word  in  the  Middle  Ages.  With 
what  propriety  it  is  uiv  continued  I  will  not  say.  Mystery,  anciently 
used  for  a  particular  art,-  or  skill  in  general,  is  a  specious  and  easy 
corruption  of  iivu.;'eni  or  iiiatLry,  the  English  of  the  Latin  magis- 
TEitiUH,  or  artijkiiini  :  in  r'reiieii  nia/strise,  vitnikr,  meslric,  and  in 
Italian  magitlerio,  with  the  same  sense."  3 — Wabton. 

"  Niderus,"  says  Hey  wood  (Hierarchi*  of  Ok  Blttted  AngfU,  p 
475),  "  speaketh  of  one  (Eniponte,  a  most  notorious  witch,  who,  hy 
making  a  picture  of  wax,  and  pricking  it  with  in'idlvs  in  divers  parts, 
and  then  burying  it  under  the  threshold  of  her  neighbour's  house, 
whom  she  muoh  hated,  she  was  tormented  by  men  grievous  and  in- 
sullerable  prickings  in  her  fie»h,  as  if  so  many  needles  had  been  tlu-n 
sticking  at  once  in  her  body.  But  the  image  being  found  aud  burned, 
she  was  instantly  restored  to  her  former  health  and  strength." 

These  kinds  of  tides  are  innumerable,  and  appear  to  have  been 
most  implicitly  believed. 


This  it 


o  Eastern  fiction,  and  is  thus  told  in  the  Turkish  Talcs  ■'- 


"  BTOBY  OF  A  KING,  A  BOFI,  AND  A  8UEGEON. 
"  An  ancient  king  of  Tartary  went  abroad  one  day  to  take  a  walk 
with  hti>  bey».  He  met  on  the  road  an  abdal,  who  cried  out  aloud, 
'  Whoever  will  give  me  j.  hundred  diuaras,  1  will  give  him  some  good 
advice.'  The  king  stopped  to  look  on  him.  ,i»d  said,  ■  Abdal,  what  is 
this  good  advice  thou  offerest  for  a  hundred  dinaras?'  'Sir 
(answered  the  nbdnl),  order  that  sum  to  be  given  me,  and  I  will  tell 


tU  tb«  HXI 


NOTES.  387 

it  you  immediately.'  The  king  die]  so  ;  and  expected  to  have  heard 
something  extraordinary  for  his  money;  when  the  dervise  said  tn 
him,  'Sir,  my  advice  U  this:  Never  begin  any  thing  till  you  hove 
reflected  what  will  be  the  end  of  it.' 

"At  these  words  all  the  beys,  and  other  persons  that  attended  toe 
king,  burst  out  into  laughter.  'It  must  bo  confessed  (said  one  of 
them),  that  this  abdal  knows  some  maxims  that  are  very  new.'  '  He 
was  not  in  the  wrong  (said  another)  to  get  paid  beforehand.'  The 
king,  seeing  that  they  all  laughed  at  the  dervise.  said,  '  You  have  u" 
reason  to  laugh  at  the  good  advice  this  ubdal  lias  given  me  :  though 
no  inan  is  ignorant,  that,  when  we  form  any  enterprise,  wo  ought  to 
meditate  well  upon  it.  and  eonsidei-  nanurely  wlmt  event  it  may  pro- 
duce. Nevertheless,  for  want  of  observing  this  rule,  we  engage  «very 
day  in  affair*  of  ill  consequence.  For  my  part.  I  value  very  much  the 
der vise's  advice.  I  will  always  bear  it  in  my  mind,  and  command  it  to 
be  written  in  letters  of  gold  on  every  door  of  my  palace,  on  the  walls, 
and  on  the  goods ;  and  that  it  be  engraved  on  all  my  plate ; '  which 
was  done  accordingly. 

"  In  a  short  time  after  this,  a  great  lord  of  the  court,  urged  on  by 
ambition  rather  than  any  cause  he  had  to  complain  of  that  prince. 
resolved  to  deprive  him  both  of  his  crown  and  life.  To  this  end,  he 
found  means  to  get  a  poisoned  lancet,  and  applying  himself  to  Ulb 
ting's  surgeon,  said  to  him,  '  If  thou  wilt  bleed  the  king  with  this 
lancet,  here  are  ten  thousand  crowns  in  gold,  which  I  give  thee  as  a 

?  resent.  As  soon  as  thou  hast  done  the  business,  the  throne  is  mine, 
have  already  r u . . J i  .'t.d  tin:  means  to  mount  it:  and  I  promise  thus, 
that,  when  I  am  king,  I  will  make  thee  my  grand  virier,  and  that 
thou  shall  partake  with  me  in  the  sovereign  power.'  The  surgeon. 
blinded  with  the  advantage  "f  the  proper]  thermit  man  had  made 
him,  accepted  of  it  without  the  least  hesitation.  He  received  the  ten 
thousand  crowns  in  hand,  and  put  the  laueet  in  his  turban,  to  use  it 
■when  there  should  be  an  opportunity. 

"An  opportunity  soon  offered  itself.  The  kin:;  wanted  to  be  bled, 
and  the  surgeon  was  sent  for.  He  came,  and  began  to  bind  up  the 
king's  arm,  while  they  placed  a  buson  t"  receive  I  lie  blood.  The  sur- 
geon took  the  fatal  lancet  out  uf  hit  milstti,  and  was  just  going  to 
open  the  vein,  when  accidentally  casting  his  eye  on  the  bason,  he 
read  these  words  that  wore  engraved  upon  it. :  ,\vn  r  Iwtjin  any  tldwi 
till  ym  hurt,  jir.'t  rvi\--i'lfl  what  trill  of  the  rial  of  it  He  iustant.K 
full  into  a  deep  study,  and  said  within  himself,  '  If  I  bleed  the  king 
with  this  lancet,  he  is  a  'lead  man.  If  lie  die,  I  thai!  certainly  be 
soiled,  and  put  to  death  amidst  dreadful  torments.  When  I  am  dead, 
what  will  the  crowns  of  gold  that  I  have  received  avail  mo?'  Struck 
with  these  reflectinna,  ho  put  the  poifoed  i.ineel  into  his  turban, 
and  took  another  out  of  bin  pocket.  The  king,  perceiving  it,  asked 
him  why  ho  changod  his  lancet.  'Sir  (answered  tho  surgeon), 
because  the  point  of  tlie  Bret  mu  not  good.'  '  Show  it  me  (said  the 
prince) ;  1  will  see  it.'  Then  the  surgeon  was  almost  struck  dumb 
with  fear,  and  seemed  in  great  confusion.  The  king  cried  out,  'What 
means  this  concern  thou  art  in?  It  conceals  wane  mystery;  tell  me 
°  "    ">r  thou  diest  this  moment.'     The  surgeou,  intiumlui.  <' 


Jtsi  fT^w^  *  itmr  in  but;  tw  gaud*  prp 
fewtto  »— Jot  «f  fimmif  bm 

fxMMIlBgMkutr'JirNifiai: 


•"-  !*«Mi.  «*r  <*Ml  n.  tt*  WW  )«t&      B*  ™*  «itonlt  ionH  D 

*ini— .»  »iii» i  >»"  «.I  Mined»  fc*  wn»»  »pw «tot  b< 

i  inr  n — r      1  <J!a— ih*  »»»i.1  «7".  abating  </tkk  frhk, 

H  u»  W*<  kM;  <mft  Mite  fcnfaa*  «m  «Titfcs.,  Strife»» 
>Mh  mmm'  f  aMri  »  mum. it  M  «raved  but  tnbn 
IM^mMiWMaipMiitlUrwUtnintoaiMa  At 
h^«fc  VM»-«  tWittrf»*  MWfcHV  At  wonky,  «*-errin«;  the 
■■*■«»—  rf  <W  ft*****  A.  f>ML  W  mM  the  TO.  At 
Mtt*VM»*«'l*»**i'>  ?««WWTMf  »U^l  iWbv 
.wcMi* Mm>A|M^.«A}M>f>«thewtk:  tlucuEt. 

—  > „»*    A,    WW*     *-«-^.-» Trfp*d  IlhfWpUM 


NOTES. 

a  banquet,  with  numerous  attendants  in  gold,  and  cups  of  ii 
size  and  value.  Id  a  recess  was  a  carbuncle,  whose  lustre  illuminate' 1 
the  whole  palace:  opposit."  to  v.hii  h  «tixnl  >i  figure  with  a  bended  bow. 
As  they  attempted  to  touch  some  of  the  rich  furniture,  all  the  golden 
images  seemed  to  rush  upon  them.  Gerbert  was  too  wise  to  attempt 
this  a  second  time  :  but  the  page  was  bold  enough  to  snatch  from  the 
table  a  golden  knife  of  exquisite  workmanship.  At  tbat  moment 
all  the  golden  images  rose  up  with  a  dreadful  noise;  the  figure 
with  the  bow  shot  at  the  carbuncle :  and  a  total  darkness  ensued. 
The  page  then  replaced  the  knife,  otherwise  they  both  would  have 
suffered  a  cruel  death.' 

"  Malmesbury  afterwards  mentions  a  brazen  bridge,  framed  by  the 
enchantments  of  Gerbert,  beyond  which  were  golden  norses  of  gigantic 
size,  with  riders  of  gold,  richly  illuminated  by  the  most  serene 
meridian  sun.  A  large  company  attempt  to  pass  the  bridge,  with  a 
design  of  stealing  some  pieces  of  the  gold.  Immediately  the  bridge 
rose  from  its  foundations,  and  stood  pi-rpendiculnr  on  one  end;  a 
brazen  man  appeared  from  beneath  it,  who  struck  the  water  with  a  mace 
of  brass,  and  the  sky  was  overspread  with  the  most  horrible  gloom. 
Gerbert,  likn  some  other  necromancers  of  the  Gothic  ages,  was  sup- 
posed to  have  fabricated  a  brawin  head  under  the  influence  of  certain 
planets,  which  answered  questions.  But  I  forbear  to  suggest  any 
more  hints  for  a  future  collection  of  Arabian  tales.  I  shall  only  add 
Malmeabury's  account  of  the  education  of  Gerbert,  which  is  a  curii  us 
illustration  of  what  lias  often  been  inculcated  in  these  volumes,  con- 
cerning the  introduction  of  romantic  Action  into  Europe. 

"  •  Gerbert,  a  native  of  France,  went  into  Spaiu  for  the  purpose  of 
learning  astrology,  and  other  sciences  of  that  cant,  of  the  Saracens ; 
who,  to  this  day,  occupy  the  upper  regions  of  S['!iiii.  Thoy  are  seated 
in  the  metropolis  of  S- dllc ;  ivhcr-.--,  accord  ins;  to  the  customary  prac- 
tice of  their  country,  they  study  tin-  arts  of  divination  and  enchant- 
ment. HoreGi.Tbi.-rt  <"'\ni  i.-ic-_-cdi-d  I'lnluuiy  in  tlic  astrolabe,  Alchind 
in  astronomy,  and  Ttilius  Finnic  us  in  fatality.  Here  he  learned  the 
meaning  of  the  flight  and  language  of  birds,  and  was  taught  how  to 
raise  speolres  from  hell.  litre  he  acqniri-d  whatever  human  curiosity 
has  discovered,  for  the  destruction  or  convenience  of  mankind.  I  say 
nothing  of  bis  knowledge  in  m  ithiueti--,  iiiuuio,  and  geometry,  which 
he  so  fully  understood,  as  to  think  them  beneath  his  genius 
which  he  yet,  with  great  industry,  introduced  into  France,  ' 
they  had  been  long  forgotten.  He  certainly  was  the  first  who  brouil.t 
the  algorithm  from  the  Saracens,  and  who  illustrated  it  with  sm'h 
rules  as  the  most  studious  in  that  science  cannot  explain.  He  lodgul 
with  a  philosopher  of  that  sect.'  " — Wakton. 


A  similar  Blory  is  in  the  Decameron.  "  The  king  condndrd 
then  into  the  great  hall,  where  (as  he  had  Li.-fi.ire  pvi.-ii  ordt-i)  .- 
two  great  chests  fast  iocked,  and  in  the  presence  of  all  his  lords. 


fc  il>ifa<»H^   ' 


•  «— -  iMfc^dfc 


NOTES,  391 

two  chests  covered  with  pitch  they  viewed  with  contempt.  Then  said 
the  king,  I  presumed  what  would  be  your  determination  :  for  ye  look 
with  the  eyea  of  aense.  But  to  discern  baseness  or  value  which  are 
hid  within,  we  muat  took  with  the  eyea  of  the  mind.  He  then  ordered 
the  golden  chests  to  be  opened,  which  exhaled  an  intolerable  Blench, 
and  filled  the  beholders  with  horror.' ' 

"In  the  Mbthical  Lives  of  the  Saints,  written  about  the  year 
1500,  theaa  chests  are  called  /our  fates,  that  is,  four  rate  or  vessels."  — 

The  historian  goes  on  to  observe  that  the  romantic  legend  of 
Barlaarn  and  Josaphat  contains  strong  trues  nf  oriental  composition  ; 
and  that  it  possibly  originated  with  this  monk  whose  name  it  hears, 
or,  at  least,  with  "some  devout  ami  lnirned  a.-,  net  it  of  tlie  14  reek  Church, 
and  probably  before  the  tenth  century." 


Note  12.    PagB  191. 

There  is  a  surprising  similarity  in  the  marvellous  cr 
ipoken  of,  to  that  which  is  on  record  relative  fco  Oetonel  (iardiner: — 

"This  memorable  event  happened  towards  the  middle  of  July, 
1719;  but  1  cannot  be  exact  as  to  the  day.  The  major  had  spent  thy 
evening  (and,  if  I  mistake  not,  it  was  the  Sabbath)  in  some  gay  com- 
pany, and  had  aa  unhappy  assignation  with  a  married  woman,  of  what 
rank  or  quality  I  did  not  particularly  inquire,  whom  he  waB  to  attend 
exactly  at  twelve.  The  company  broke  up  about  eleven ;  and 
not  judging  it  convenient  to  anticipate  the  time  appointed,  he 
went  into  his  chamber  to  kill  the  tedious  hour,  jut  1 1:1519  with  some 
amusing  book,  or  some  other  way.  But  it  very  accidentally  happened 
that  he  took  up  u  religious  book,  which  his  good  mother  or  aunt  had. 
without  his  knowledge,  slipped  into  his  portmanteau.  It  was  called. 
if  I  remember  the  title  exactly,  The  Cltrktimi  .SiiWtVr,  nr  Heaven  taken 
by  Storm  ;  and  was  written  by  Mr.  Thomas  Watson.  14uosaing  by  the 
title  of  it  that  he  should  find  some  phrases  of  his  own  profession 
spiritualized  in  a  manner  which  he  thought  might  afford  him  some 
diversion,  he  resolved  to  dip  into  it ;  but  he  took  no  serious  notice  of 
anything  he  rend  in  it :  and  yet,  while  this  book  was  in  his  hand,  au 
impression  was  made  upon  Ms  mind  (perhaps  God  only  knows  how), 
which  drew  after  it  a  train  of  the  most  important  and  happy  conse- 
quences. 

"There  is  indeed  a  possibility  that,  while  be  was  sitting  in  this 
attitude,  and  reading  in  this  careless  and  profane  manner,  be  lniirhi 
suddenly  fall  asleep,  and  only  dream  of  what  lit-  apprehended  he  saw. 
But  nothing  can  be  more  certain  than  that,  when  he  gave  me  this 
relation,  he  judged  himself  to  have  been  as  broad  awoke  during  the 
whole  time  as  he  ever  was  in  any  part  of  his  life ;  and  he  mentioned 
it  to  me  several  times  afterwards  as  what  undoubtedly  passed,:  ' 
in  his  imagination,  but  before  bis  eyes. 

Blbl.  Ball.    C'umpnre  Onion's  Goldis  LeoisDE,  fol.  J931, 


u,  Su.-fus 


A 


NOTES. 

"He  thought  ho  saw  an  unusual  blaze  of  tight  fall  on  the  book 
while  he  was  reading,  which  he  at  first  imagined  might  happen  by 
gome  accident  in  the  saddle.  But  lifting  up  nil  eyes,  he  apprehended, 
to  hia  extreme  amazement,  that  there  was  before  him,  as  it  were, 
suspended  in  the  air,  a,  visible  representation  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
upon  the  cross,  surrounded  on  all  Bides  with  a  glory;  and  was  im- 
pressed as  if  a  voico,  or  something  equivalent  to  a  voice,  had  come  to 
him,  to  this  effect  (for  he  was  nut  confident  as  to  the  very  words), 
'  Oh,  sinner  !  did  I  suffer  this  for  thee,  and  arc  thd-o  the  returns  [ 
But  whether  this  were  an  audible  voice,  or  only  u  strong  imprta- 
sion  on  Ms  mind  equally  striking,  ho  did  not  seem  very  araflaast ; 
though,  to  the  best  of  my  remembrance,  he  rather  judged  it  to 
bo  the  former.  Struck  with  so  amazing  a  phenomenon  as  this, 
there  remained  hardly  any  life  in  him ;  bo  that  he  sunk  down  in 
the  armchair  in  which  he  sat,  and  continued,  he  knew  not  exactly 
how  loug,  insensible  (which  was  one  circumstance  that  mode  me 
several  times  take  the  liberty  to  suggest  that  he  might  possibly 
be  all  thifl  while  asleep).  But  however  that  were,  he  quickly  after 
opened  his  eyes,  and  saw  nothing  more  than  usual. 

"  It  may  easily  It  supp.  i,n]  hi;  was  in  no  condition  to  make  any 
observation  upon  the  tiuic  in  which  ho  had  remained  in  an  insensible 
state ;  nor  did  he,  throughout  ail  the  remainder  of  the  night,  once 
recollect  that  criminal  uud  detestable  assignation  which  had  before 
engrossed  all  his  thoughts.  Ho  rose  in  a  tumult  of  passions  not  to  be 
conceived,  and  walked  to  and  fro  in  his  chamber,  till  he  was  ready  to 


lifetime  been  cruuilvin;,-  Ulnisl  afresh  by  his  sins,  and  now  saw,  as  he 
assuredly  believed,  by  a  mirinmlous  vision,  the  horror  of  what  he  had 
done.  With  this  was  connected  such  a  view  both  of  the  majesty  and 
goodness  of  God,  as  caused  him  to  loathe  and  abhor  himself,  and  to 
repent  as  in  dust  and  ashes.  He  immediately  gave  judgment  against 
himself,  that  he  was  most  justly  worthy  of  eternal  damnation.  He  was 
astonished  that  he  had  nut  been  immediately  struck  dead  in  the  midst 
of  his  wickedness;  and  (which  I  think  deserves  particular  remark) 
though  he  assuredly  believed  that  ho  should  ere  long  bo  in  hell,  and 
settled  it  as  a  point  with  himself  for  several  months,  that  tho  wisdom 
"  1  did  ■ 
ir  should  h 
and  a  spectacle  as  such  both  to  angels' and  men,  so  that  he  "hardly 
durst  presume  to  pray  for  pardon  ;  yet  what  he  thon  suffered  was  not 
so  much  from  the  fear  of  hell,  though  he  concluded  it  would  soon  be 
his  portion,  as  from  a  sense  of  that  horrible  ingratitude  he  had  shown 
to  the  God  of  his  life,  and  to  that  blessed  Redeemer  who  hud  been  in 
so  affecting  a  manner  set  forth  as  crucified  before  him."— Doddbiouc, 
Life  of  Col.  Gardiner,  p.  15,  d  seq. 


Note  13.     Page  193. 

'Rubor  Mgyptua,"— this  I  take  to  be  the  leprosy;  whioh  the 
.owing  account  from  Pliny's  Natural  History  seouis  to  confirm : — 
"This  disease  also  began,  for  Hie  mast  part,  iu  the  face,  and 
namely  it  took  the  nose,  where  it  put  forth  a  little  speeke,  or  pimple, 
no  bigger  than  a  small  leotill;  but  soono  after,  as  it  spread  farther,  and 
ran  over  the  whole  bodie,  a  man  should  perceive  the  skin  to  be 
painted  and  ipotted  with  divert  and  sandrie  colours,  and  the  same 
uneven,  bearing  out  higher  In  one  place  than  another,  thicke  here 
hut  thin  there,  and  hard  every  where ;  rough  also,  like  as  if  a  scurl'e 
or  scab  over-ran  it,  untill,  in  the  end,  it  would  grow  to  bo  blackish, 
bearing  downe  the  flesh  flat  to  the  bones,  whiles  the  fingers  of  the 
hands,  and  toes  of  the  feet,  were  puffed  up  and  swelled  againe.  A 
peculiar  malady  is  this,  anil  natural  to  the  SggpthMM;  but  looks  when 
any  of  their  kings  felt  into  it,  woe  worth  the  subjects  and  poore 
people,  for  there  wore  the  tubs  and  bathing  vessels  wherein  they 
-*-    a  the  balne,1  filled  with  men's  blood  for  their  cure."— P.  H.  T. 


lib.  i 


La.  2. 


Egyptians  might,  perhaps,  wear  a  red  appearance. 


i   the 


Note  11.    Page  191. 

The  romance  of  "Sir  Isambras"  in  many  respects  corresponds 
with  this  story,  and  particularly  with  the  striking  incident  detailed 

"The  knight,  afflicted  by  Heaven  in  consequence  of  hia  sins,  was 
met  by  a  part  of  his  household,  who,  with  many  tears,  informed  him 
that  his  horses  and  oxen  had  been  suddenly  struck  dead  with  light- 
ning, and  that  his  capons  were  all  stung  to  death  with  adders.  He 
received  tin'  tidings  with  humble  resignation,  commanded  his  servants 
to  abstain  from  murmurs  aguiust  Providence,  and  passed  on.  He  was 
next  met  by  a  page,  who  related  that  his  castle  was  burned  to  the 
ground;  that  many  of  hia  servants  hod  lost  their  lives  ;  and  that  his 
wife  and  children  had  with  .i-hut  diilii'iilty  r!<i':iji'il  from  the  flames. 
Sir  iBumbros,  rejoiced  that  Heaven  had  yet  spared  those  who  were 
most  dear  to  him,  bestowed  upon  the  astonished  page  his  purse  of 
gold  us  a  reward  for  the  intelligence. 


" 


Brought  out  of  their  bed. 

woful  man  then  was  he, 

When  he  siw  them  all  Diked  be. 


Thi 


NOTES. 

lady  said,  all  10  blive, 

rthing,  sir,  be  ye  adrsd.' 
oH'bis  surcote  of  pullm^,' 
with  it.  iliiil  his  wife, 
rlct  mantle  tb,:n  ^hinc  ht ; 
i  he  [-Irnpit  hi'  children  thus 
naked  before  him  stood. 


"  He  then  proposed  to  his  wife  that,  as  an  expiation  of  their  das, 
they  should  instantly  undertake  a  pilgrimage  to  Jerusalem ;  and, 
cutting  with  hi»  knife  a  sign  of  the  cross  on  his  Bhoulder,  set  off  with 
the  four  companions  of  his  misery,  resolved  to  beg  his  bread  till  he 
should  arrive  at  the  holy  sepulchre. 

"  After  passing  through  '  sflTon  lands/  supported  by  the  scanty 
alms  of  the  chitiiial.;,-,  tin  y  arrived  (it  length  at  a  forest  where  they 
wandered  during  three  days  without  meeting  a  single,  habitation. 
Their  food  was  reduced  to  the  few  berries  which  they  were  able  to 
collect;  and  the  ohildren,  unaccustomed  to  sucli  hard  fare,  began  to 
sink  under  the  accumulated  difficulties  of  their  journey.  Id  this 
situation  they  were  stopped  by  a  wide  and  rapid  though  shallow 
river.  Sir  Iaumbras,  taking  his  eldest  son  in  his  arms,  carried  him 
over  to  the  opposite  bank,  and  placing  him  under  a  bush  of  broom, 
directed  him  to  dry  bis  tears,  and  amuse  himself  by  playing  with  the 
blossoms  till  bis  return  with  his  brother.  But  scarcely  had  be  left 
the  plane  when  a  lion,  starting  from  a  neighbouring  thicket,  seized 
the  child,  and  bore  him  away  into  the  recesses  of  the  forest.  The 
fiwrail  son  became,  in  like  maimer,  the  prey  of  an  enormous  leopard ; 
and  the  disconsolate  mother,  when  carried  over  with  her  infant  to  the 
fatal  spot,  was  with  difficulty  persuaded  to  .survive  the  loss  of  her  two 
elder  children.  Sir  Isumbras,  though  he  could  not  repress  the  tears 
extorted  by  this  cruel  calamity,  .■xi-yi .■■!  himself  t"  console  his  wife, 
and,  humbly  confessing  his  sins,  contented  himself  with  praying  tbut 
his  present  mi^er;  niiijht  hi- accepted  by  Heaven  as  a  partial  expiation, 

"  Through  forest  they  went  days  three, 
Till  they  came  to  the  Greekish  sea; 

They  grette,"  and  were  full  wo  I 
As  t hoy  stood  upon  the  land, 
They  saw  a  £eef  Dome  sail  and, 
Three  hundred  ship  and  mo. 
With  top-castols  set  on-loft, 
Richly  then  were  they  wrought, 
'?kle  pride: 


With 
A  heathen 
That  Chrii 


ather 


a  the  pilgrims  had  tasted  bre»d  o 
IB  Hgniff  ing  u  [urticui 


BOTES. 

meat;  the  soudan's  galley,  therefore,  was  no  sooner  moored  t.    . 

beach  than  they  hastened  on  board  to  beg  for  food.  The  soudan, 
under  the  apprehension  that  they  were  spits,  ordered  them  to  lw 
driven  back  on  shore:  but  his  attendants  ubscntd  to  him  that  these 
on  Id  not  be  (.-■mi i] mi i  Iiil--:;!S  ;  Unit  tli.-  ml mst  limbs  and  tall  stature 
of  tha  husband  proved  him  to  lie  ■  knight  in  disguise  ;  and  that  the 
delicate  complexion  nf  the  wife,  who  was  '  bright  as  blossom  on  tret,' 
formed  a  striking  contrast  to  the  ragged  apparel  by  which  she  was 
very  imperfectly  covered.  They  wore  now  brought  into  the  royal 
presence;  and  the  soudan,  addressing  Sir  IsumbraE,  imuieilbitrlv 
offered  him  ;is  much  treasure  us  be  should  rcqnirr.-,  mi  condition  thut 
he  shoidd  renounce  Christianity,  and  consent  to  flght  under  the 
Saraoen  banners.  The  answer  was  a  respectful  but  peremptory 
refusal,  concluded  by  an  earnest  petition  for  a  little  food ;  bat  the 
soudan,  having  by  this  linn:  turned  his  i-yrs  froin  Mr  Ijiimbras  to  the 
beautitid  oonirijoit.u  of  his  pil^iiiiiiige,  [iaid  no  attention  to  thii 
request. 


She  shall  be  quoin  of  my  land; 
Aid  all  men  bow  unto  her  hand; 

And  none  withstand  her  stew».'* 
Sir  lsumbras  said,  'Say  I 
lay  wife  1  will  noaght  ttll  away, 

Though  ye  EM  fur  her  aloo  1 
1  wadded  her  iu  Godis  lay, 
To  hold  her  tn  mine  coding  day 

Both  for  weal  and  wo.' 


"  It  evidently  would  require  no  small  share  of  casuistry  to  construe 

this  declaration  bit"  uu  iitviptiun.u.'  of  (he  bargain;  but  the  Saracens, 
having  heard  the  offer  of  their  rjneroiirti,  -It  I ibiint'dy counted  out  the 
stipulated  sum  on  the  mantlo  of  Sir  lsumbras :  took  possession  of  the 
lady;  carried  the  knight  v.ith  lii.-:  infuiit  son  on  -h.,re  ;  beat  him  till  he 
was  scarcely  ablu  to  move;  and  then  returned  for  further  orders."— 
.St wri mi,  .;.■  c/  K.  K.  Hitm.  v.  111. 

This  accordimcr  nf  Sir  I  ~  umbras  with  the  tale  in  the  Geila  has  not 
been  notir-ed  by  Mr.  Ellis. 

The  story  is  found  in  Caxton's  Golden  Legend,  anil  in  (he  metrical 
Lira  af  /he  Saint». 


Son:  15.     Pago  219. 

"From  this  beautiful  tale. of  which  the  opening  only  is  fame  glrta, 
Oecleve,  commonly  «lied  Chaucer's,  disciple,  framed  a  poem  in  ili« 
octave,  which  was  printed  in  the  year  ltjH,  by  William  Browur.in 
his  set  of  Eclogues  called  the  Shepheard's  Pipe.  Oecleve  has  literally 
fallowed  tbe  book  before  us.  and  has  even  translated  into  IhgUn 
prose  the  Mobiliiitios  annexed.  Ha  has  given  do  sort  of  embclliib- 
ment  to  his  original,  and  by  no  means  deserves  the  praises  whiih. 
Browne,  in  the  following  elegant  pastoral  lyrics,  has  bestowed  on  kit 
performance,  and  wltich  more  justly  belong  to  the  genuine  Gothic,  or 
rather,  Arabian  inventor. 

"Well  I  wot,  the  man  that  first 
Sang  t hi i  by,  did  qn«nch  bit  thirst, 
Deeply  as  di-i  ever  one, 
In  the  tins»'  Helicon. 
Hany  limes  he  hath  been  seen 
With  the  faeries  on  tbe  green, 
■    '  to  them  his  pipe  did  si "    ' 


j  they  J 


rand; 


e  solace  would  they  make 
jinn  it  midnight  often  take  hin 
And  convev  him  from  his  room 
T«  a  field  of  yellow  broom, 
Or  into  the  mead  air*  where 
Mints  perfume  rhe  gentle  air. 
And  where  Flora  spreads  her  tr 
There  they  would  begin  their  m 
If  it  chanced  night's  sable  shrot 
Muffled  CynthU  in  her  doods. 
Safely  home  they  then  wonld  se 
Aad  from  brakes  and  qoaEinire: 
There  «re  few  such  await 
Now-a-days  for  harmony. 


he1 


"The  history  of  Darius,  who  gave  thin  legacy  to  hie  three  sortf.i' 
incorporate  I  with  that  of  Alexander,  which  hat*  been  decorated  witt 
innumerable  fictions  by  the  Arabian  writers.  There  ia  also  a  separate 
romance  on  Darius,  and  on  Philip  of  Macedon." — Warton. 

"The  story  has  boen  Tery  properly  termed  by  Mr.  Warton  a 
bi-autiful  one  :  but  ha  has  not  been  equally  accurate  in  hia  Itataneat 
that  '  Oceleve  has  literally  followed  the  book  before  as  (i.e.  tot 
original  Getta),  and  has  even  translated  into  English  pmae  the  mor.ili- 
zation  annexed.'  Occleve's  immediate  model  was  nur  Euglish  Qtita; 
nor  is  it  improbable  that  ha  might  even  be  the  translator  of  it :  the 
ii,.->r ilizatiuii,  also,  ia  entirely  different.  Mr.  Warton  has  omitted  to 
notice,  that  this  story  corresponds  with  that  of  Furtunatus ;  which, 
miles»  itself  of  oriental  origin,  might  have  been  taken  from  it."— 
Doloe. 


I 


1m  mMmi  -f  ii-  =a^  M  u.  h  hai  - 
<*  Ahmed,  and  ti*  Fairj  Fkri  Bom,*  ' 


"mm  this  ifeTj.  witt  t«j  b 


-T:-   -   :■      I 


IglbtndnB 
Though  it 
To  tell  U>. 

Well  £ir«  ■  hist  for  once,  how  to  apply 
The  amnio;  first,  thea  hang  the  tale  thenar. 

People  full  oft  are  pat  into  a  pother 
For  want  of  understanding  one  another; 
And  strange  amosing  stories  creep  about. 
That  come  to  nothing  if  too  trace  them  ont  j 
Liei  of  the  das,  perhaps,  or  month,  or  rear. 
Which,  having  served  their  pnrpoK.  disappear. 
From  which,  meanwhile,  disputes  of  every  aba, 
That  is  to  lay,  misnndentaudings  rise. 
The  springs  of  ilL  from  bick'riag  Dp  to  battle, 
From  wan  and  tumults  down  to  tittle-tattle. 
Such  as,  for  instance  (for  we  need  not  roam 
Far  off  to  find  them,  bat  come  nearer  home), 
Such  as  befall,  by  sudden  misdi  fining, 
On  cuts,  on  coals,  on  boiet,  and  on  signing. 
Or  on  what  now,'  in  the  affair  of  mills. 
To  us  and  yon  portends  each  serious  ills. 
To  note  how  meanings,  that  were  nerer  meant, 
By  eager  giving  them  too  rash  assent. 
Will  (ly  about,  just  like  bo  many  crows, 
Of  the  same  breud  of  whirh  the  story  goes, — 


That 


;s  the  pnblic,  or  the  private  weal. 


idinE*»  o« 


.iOTES. 

"  Hark  ye,"  said  he,  "  'tis  an  odd  story  this 
About  the  crows  I  "     "  I  don't  know  what  it  is," 
Replied  his  friend.     "  No  !  I'm  surprised  at  that— 
Where  I  come  from  it  is  the  common  chat, 
lint  you  shall  hear — an  odd  afl'air,  indeed  I 
And  that  ii  happened,  1 1my  are  ail  agreed. 
Nut  to  detain  you  from  a  thing  so  strange, 
A  gentleman  thai  lives  nnt  far  from  'Change, 
This  weik,  in  short,  as  all  the  alley  knows, 
Taking  a  puke,  has  thrown  up  three  bliok  crows !  " 

"  Impossible !  "     "  Nay,  but  indeed  'tis  true ; 
I  had  it  from  good  hands,  and  so  may  you," 
"From  whose,  I  pray  1"     So  having  named  the  man, 
Straight  t"  iu.j n i i-.-,  his  r  'irimn  comrade  ran. 

"  Sir,  did  yoa  tell *  "  relating  the  affair. 

"  Yes,  sir,  I  did  ;  and  if  'tis  worth  your  care, 

Ask  Mr,  3uch-a-one — he  told  it  me; 

But,  by-the-by,  'twas  Two  black  crows,  not  THREE." 

Kesolved  to  trace  so  wondrous  an  event, 

Whip  to  the  third  the  virtuoso  went. 

"Sir"— and  so  forth— "Why,  yes;  the  thing  is  fact  ; 

Tho'  in  regard  to  number  not  exact : 

it  was  not  Two  black  crows,  'twas  only  One; 

The  truth  of  that  you  may  rely  upon. 

The  gentleman  hiin»i:if  c. ■  -■  1 . 1  nn-  the  case-." 

"  Where  may  I find  hint"     "Why,  in  such  a  place/ 

Away  goes  he,  and  having  found  him  out, 

"  Sir,  be  so  good  as  to  resolve  a  daabt," 

Then  to  his  last  informant  he  referred, 
And  begged  to  know  if  true  what  he  had  heard  ; 
"  Did  yaa,  sir,  thro*  >rr  .<  )<t-i.:k  crow  i  "     "  Sot  I  ?  " 
"  Bless  me  I  how  people  propagate  a  lie  ! 
Black  crotrs  hnvr.  ami  t/iwit  itp,  TuiiEE,  Two,  and  ONE, 
And  here,  fjiml,  alt  <-<im;.'.s  -it  l.ist  to  none. 
Did  yon  say  nothing  of  a  crow  at  all  t " 
"  Crow  I  crow  !     Perhaps  1  might,  now  I  recall 
The  matter  over."     "And  pray,  sir,  what  wasftt" 
"Why,  I  was  horrid  link,  and  at  the  last 
I  did  throw  up,  and  told  mv  neighbour  so, 
Something  that  was  as  black,  sir,  as  a  crow  t  " 

Misc.  Poems,  vol.  i.  p. 


Notk17.    Page  227. 

"This  ia  one  of  the  most  lively  stories  of  MncroljiuB,"  eaya  Wart™. 
It  is  detailed  Salunud.  lib.  ii  c.  Ii,  "  JJe  origine  uc  usu  pretexts,"  pug» 
117.— "Mos  anteaBeuatoribusfuitimuriaui  prurttxti""  *" 


2K 


NOTES. 

Cum  in  senatti  res  major  qucepiam  consultahatur ;  eaque  in  pnsteruni 
diem  prolata  usstt :  plueuit  Ht  hane  rem,  super  qua  tmetiYissenl,  ne 
quia  enuntiurct  [iriusquani  decreta  easet.  Mater  Papirii  pueri,  qui 
cum  parento  suo  in  curia  fuerat,  percunctatur  filiuui,  quidnam  in 
seuatu  ogissent  put  res :  puer  respondit  tacendum  esse,  Deque  id  dici 
licere.  Mulier  fit  audiendi  cupidior,  secretuui  rei  et  silentiuni  pueri 
animum  ejus  ad  inquirendum  everberat.  Quajtit  igitur  coinpressus 
violeuti  usque ;  turn  puer  urgente  matre  lepnli  ntqiin  iestivi  mendacii 
oonGiliuin  capit;  actum  id  senatu  dixit  utnim  yideretur  utilius 
magisque  e  republic»  esse,  unuane  at  duas  uxores  habcret,  an  ut 
una  apud  duos  nupta  esaot.  Hoc  ilia  ubi  audivit,  animo  compavesdt ; 
doino  trepidaua  egreditur,  ad  caeteras  matronas  affert;  postridieiiue 
ad  aenatum  eopi...-u  ijuuruui-'.^milias  caterva  confluunt.  Lacrymautes 
atque  obsecrantes  orant  una  potiua  ut  ducbus  nupta  fieret,  quam  ut 
udi  duie.  Benatorea  ingredientea  curiam,  qua)  ilia  mulierum  intem- 
peries,  et  quid  sibi  postulatio  iatac  vellet,  mirabantur ;  et  ut  dod 
parva)  rei  prodigium  illam  verecuudi  sexus  impudicam  insaniam 
pavescebant.  Puer  PapiriuB  publicum  metum  demit ;  Dam  in  medium 
curia*  progressus  quid  ipsi  mater  audire  institisset,  quid  matri  ipse 
siiuulasset;  siout  fuerat,  enarrat.  Seuatus  fidem  atque  ingenium 
pueri  exoaculatui ;  conauttumque  facit  uti  poatbac  pueri  cum  patribus 
iu  curiam  non  introeant  prater  ilium  unum  Papirium ;  eique  puero 
postea  cognomentum  honoria  gratia  decreto  inditum,  Prxiex taiut ;  ob 
tacendi  loquendique  in  pratextas  astate  prudentiam." 


Note  18.    Pago  244. 

"  Next  unto  which  I  may  mention  the  Cockatrice,  or  Basilisk  ; 
now  this  is  the  king  of  serpents,  not  fur  his  magnitude  or  greatness, 
hut  for  his  stately  pore  and  magnanimous  niiiul ;  for  the  head  and 
half  part  of  bia  body  he  always  carries  upright,  and  hath  a  kind  of 
oreat  like  a  orown  up™  his  head.  This  creature  is  in  thieknesse  ns 
big  as  a  man's  wrist,  ami  of  1.  vijrth  pii'port.Lnijublc  to  thut  thickness  : 
his  (-yea  are  red  in  a  kind  of  cloudy  blackness,  as  if  lire  were  mixed 
with  smoke.  His  poison  is  a  very  hot  and  vonoiviOHS  poison,  drying  op 
and  scorching  the  grass  as  if  it  were  burned,  infecting  the  air  round 
about  him  so  as  no  other  creatiiro  eari  live  near  him :  in  which  he  is 
like  to  the  Oorgon,  whom  last  of  all  I  mentioned. 

"And  nmoi'i|jst  (ill  living  en  a  to  res,  there  is  none  that  perisheth 
sooner  by  the  poison  of  the  Cockatrice  than  man ;  for  with  his  sight 
ho  killeth  him  :  which  is,  heraux-  the  beams  of  the  Cockatrice's  eyes 
do  corrupt  the  visible  spirit  of  a  man ;  as  is  affirmed :  whieh  being 
corrupted,  all  the  other  spirits  of  life,  coming  from  the  heart  and 
brain,  are  thereby  corrupted  also ;  and  so  the  man  dietli.  His  hissing, 
likewise,  is  said  to  be  as  bad.  in  regard  that  it  blantetl]  trees,  kill.-th 
birds,  Ac.,  by  poisoning  the  air.  If  any  thing  bo  slain  by  it,  the  same 
alao  proveth  venomous  to  such  as  touch  it ;  only  a  weasel  kills  it. 

hat  they  be  bred  out  of  an  egg  laid  by  an  old  cock,  is  acarae 


NOTES. 

credible  :  how  Wit  some  affirm  Kith  great  confidence,  that  when  the 
cock  waxeth  old  . .  .  there  groweth  in  him,  of  his  corrupted  seed,  a 
little  egg  with  a  thin  film  instead  of  a  shell,  and  thin  being  hatched 
by  the  toad,  or  some  such  like  creature,  bringetb  forth  a  venonioics 
worm,  although  not  this  basilisk,  that  king  of  serpents." — Swas's 
tipeculum  Man di,  chap,  ix.  p.  4S6.     1635. 


Notb  19.     Page  247. 


ly  from 
part  of 


The  following  apologue  fr 
the  Gerta  Bomanorum,  this  for 
the  fifteenth  century 

"  Of  the  Poor  Man  and  the  Serpent. 

"  He  that  applies  himself  to  do  other  men  harm,  ought  cot  to  think 
himself  secure;  wherefore  JEsop  rehearseth  this  fahle.  Thero  was  a 
eerpent  which  came  into  the  house  of  a  poor  man,  and  lived  of  that 
which  fell  from  the  poor  man's  table,  for  the  which  thing  there  hap- 
pened great  fortune  to  this  man,  and  he  became  rich.  But  on  a  day 
this  man  was  very  angrie  against  tho  serpent,  and  took  a  sword  and 
smote  at  him  ;  wherefore  the  teqient  went  uut  of  tho  house,  and  came 
no  more  thither  again.  A  little  after,  this  man  fell  again  into  great 
poverty  and  then  he  knew  that  by  fortune  of  the  serpent  he  was 
become  rich ;  wherefore  il  repented  him  that  he  had  driven  away  the 
serpent.  Then  he  went  and  humbled  iiiuisulf  to  [he  serpent,  saying, 
I  pray  thee  that  thou  wilt  pardon  me  the  offence  that  I  have  done 
thee.  And  the  serpent  suid.  Seeing  thou  repentost  theo  of  thy  mis- 
deed, 1  forgive  thee  ;  but  as  long  as  1  shall  live,  1  shall  remember  thy 
malice  ;  for  as  thou  hurtedst  me  onoe,  so  thou  maieat  again.  Where- 
fi/rt  that  'rhk-h  iea*  once  evil,  snail  ever  so  be  lield  ;  men  ought  therefore 
not  to  intuit  over  him  of  whom  the.ij  receive  soine  benefit,  nor  yet  to  tut- 
pect  their  good  and  true  friends."— P.  83.     1658. 

There  is  also  a  fable  attributed  to  Avian  (a  Latin  writer  of  the 
fourth  century,  who  imitated  Pha>drus),  to  the  following  purport : — 

"He  that  seeketh  to  get  more  than  be  ought,  oft-times  getteth 
nothing;  as  saith  the  fable,  of  a  man  which  had  a  goose  that  laid 
every  day  an  egge  of  gold.  The  man,  out  of  covetousuess,  commanded 
her  that  every  day  she  should  lay  two  eggs :  and  she  said  to  him. 
'  Certainly,  my  master,  I  may  not/  Wherefore  the  man  was  wroth 
with  her,  and  slew  her  ;  by  means  whereof  he  lost  his  former  profit, 
and  afterwords  waxed  very  sorrowful." — 1658. 

lint  these  stories,  with  some  of  modern  manufacture,  have  all, 
probably,  originated  from  the  apologue  of  Gabria,  or  Babria,  s  Greek 
poet,  who  put  the  fables  of  JBaop  into  Iambio  verse.  The  period  i» 
which  he  nourished  is  unknown. 


'■  xpvrrovv  a>hv  Sprit  tio-airar. 

is  ir\ajTjStli  XPW'PT*!'  tJj*'  ippJva, 

ivc  Tainiiy,  xpwov  if  AaS<?f  OcAur. 

8«  judfof  Si-jo»  iA*Kf!  thxis- 

ae  U  Babriai,  not  Babria,  still  less  Gabria, — En.] 


Note  20.    Page  251. 

"  Gower.  in  the  Confessio  Amantjs,  may  perhaps  have  copied 
the  c iicum stance  of  the  morning  trumpet  from  this  apologue. 

"  It  >d  befell,  that  on  a  day 
There  was  ordained  by  the  lawe 
A  trump  with  a  atern  breath, 
Which  was  (l.'ii.'J  ilii-  ii-ii[ii|)  nf  death: 
And  id  the  ooart  where  the  king  was, 
A  certain  man  thia  trumne  of  brasa 
Hath  in  keeping,  and  thereof  serve th, 
That  when  a  lord  hia  death  deserveth. 
He  shall  this  dreadful  truiup-s  blow, 
Before  his  gate,  to  make  it  know, 
How  that  the  judg-u-ment  is  give 
Of  death,  which  shall  not  be  forgive. 
The  king  when  it  was  night  annn, 
Thia  man  had  sent,  and  bade  him  gone, 
To  trumpen  at  his  brother's  gate; 
And  he,  which  he  might  do  algate,1 
Goeth  forth,  and  doth  the  king's  heat. 
This  lord  which  heard  uf  this  tempest 
That  he  to-fore  his  gate  blew, 
Then  wiat  he  by  the  law,  and  knew 
That  he  was  surely  dead,  &c. 

"  But  Oower  has  connected  with  thia  circumstance  a  different 
story,  and  of  an  inferior  cast,  both  in  point  of  mural  anil  imagination. 
The  truth  is,  Gower  seems  to  have  altogether  followed  this  story  as  it 
appeared  in  the  Sfkcitlcm  Hibtoria  l.e  of  Vincent  of  Bcauvais,  who 
took  it  from  Diunasccnua's  romance  of  Barlaam  ami  Josaphat. 
Part  of  it  is  thus  told  in  Gaston's  tratnl.it  in»  <A  that  legend,  fed.  H!.W  ; 

"  'And  the  kvTi^i-  hailnY  sndn:-  »  I'li-inhic.  that  when  one  abolde  be 
delyvered  to  deth.  the  kyuge  phnlde  send  hys  cry  nr  wyth  hys  trompt 
that  was  ordeyned  thereto.  And  on  the  even  In.-  -elite  tin.*  cryar  wyth 
the  trooipe  tot'ore  hys  brother'e  gate,  and  made  to  soune  the  trompe. 
And  whan  the  kyii^s  bniliL-r  > l -.- r .  I r -  tliy.j.  In-  bil-  in  di  rpuvrof  saninjje 
hys  lyfu,  and  cold e  nut  slope  of  0.11  the  nyght,  and  n.ade  hyst     '  " 


402 


NOTES. 


And  on  the  mime  erly,  lie  clndde  hym  in  blacke:  nod  came  wytb 
wtpyng  with  hys  wyf  and  ehyldren  to  the  kynfies  paleya.  And  the 
fcynge  mode  hym  to  com»  tofore  hym,  and  sayd  to  hym,  A  fooll  that 
thou  art,  that  thou  hast  herde  the  meaegen  of  thy  brother,  to  whom 
tbou  knowest  well  thou  huet  not  trespsoed,  and  doubtert  »o  niooohe. 
Howe  oughte,  not  I  then  ne  doute  the  measagures  of  our  Lorde 
•uM.viiist  whom  I  have  boo  ofte  synned,  which  signefyed  unto  me 
uj'-ru  ok-rely  the  deth  than  the  trompe.'  "— Wahton. 


Note  21.    Page  265. 

"Enter  Pericles,  uith  Attendants. 

"  Per.  Lord  governor,  for  so  we  hear  you  are. 
Let  not  our  ships  and  number  of  our  men 
Be,  like  a  beacon  tired,  to  nmaie  your  eyes. 
Wb  have  heard  jour  miseries  as  far  as  Tyre, 
And  seen  the  desolation  of  your  streets : 
Nor  come  we  to  add  sorrow  to  your  tears, 
But  to  relieve  them  of  their  heavy  load  ; 
And  these  our  phips  you  happily  msv  think  ' 
Are,  like  the  Trojan  horse.  war'-stutFd  within, 
With  bloody  views,  eipecting  overthrow, 
Are  stored  with  corn,  to  make  your  needy  bread, 
And  give  them  life,  who  are  hunger-starved,  half  dead. 

"  All.  The  gods  of  Greece  protect  yon  I 
And  we'll  pray  for  you. 

"  Per.  Pise,  1  pray  yoa,  rise  , 

We  do  not  look  for  reverence,  but  for  love, 
And  harbourage  for  ouraelf,  our  ships,  and  men. 

"  Cle.  The  which  when  any  shall  not  gratify. 
Or  pay  you  with  unthankfulness  in  thought, 
Be  it  our  wives,  our  children,  or  ourselves, 
The  curse  of  heaven  and  men  succeed  their  evils ! 
Till  when,  (the  which,  I  hope,  shall  ne'er  be  seen,) 


r  grace  _] 


'.  Which  n 


ie  we'll  a. 


ept;  feast  here  a  while. 


of  all  the  modern  editionn;  ills,  bo 

Ml  these  our  ships  ttMol  Imply  TQi 
..  iiii-tln:  Trajan  borne,"  to. 


NOTES, 

Note  22.    Page  277. 

"  Enter  two  Sailors. 

«1  Sail. 

What  eou 

"S8. 

sir?     God  save  you. 

"Per.  C 

ourage  ear, 

gh 

It  hath  do 

rst.     Yet,  fur  the  We 

l.lf  1  hi^-  Jim 

r  infant,  th 

a  fresh-new  seafarer, 

I  would  it 

i-..ul.[  li-  i| 

'■  1  Sail. 

Slaca   tin 

a  there;  thou  wilt  no 

split  thyself. 

"  3  Sail. 

But  sea-ro 

an  the  brine  and  do 

la 


ndyb 


is  loud,  and  rill  Ml  Ifc  HH  tin  *Sj)  l,:  cleared  of  the  dea 

"  Per.  That's  your  superstition. 

"1  Sail.  Pardon  us,  sir;  with  us  at  sea  it  still  hath  be 
we  are  strong  in  earnest.  Therefore  briefly  yield  her;  f< 
buard  straight. 

"Per.  lie  it  as  you  think  meet. — Most  wretcheJ  queen 

"  Per.  A  terrible  I'hiUbol  ha.-t  llmu  had,  my  dear  ; 
No  light,  no  tire ;  the  unfriendly  elements 
Forgot  thee  utterly  ;  nor  hare  I  time 
J'o  give  thee  hallow'd  to  thy  grave,  but  straight 
Must  cast  thee,  scarcely  euliin'd.  in  the  ooie; 
Wh^ri\  fin"  ^  iiHinuiiicm  upon  thy  bones, 
And  aye-remaiuiiij;  lamps,  the  lieldiing  whale, 
And  humming  water  mu.it  u'cnihHm  thy  corpse. 
Lying  with  simple  shells.     Lychorida, 
Bid  Nestor  bring  me  spices,  ink,  and  paper, 
My  casket  and  my  jewels;  and  bid  Nicander 
Bring  me  the  satin  coffer:  lay  the  babe 
Upon  the  pillow ;  hie  thee,  whiles  I  say 
A  priestlv  farewell  to  her:  suddenly,  woman. 

"  2  Sail.  Sir,  we  have  n  chest  beneath  the  hilchef ,  can 
ready. 

"Per.  I  thank  thee." 


1  'hi  the  sea  toss  upon  eur  shore  this  chest ; 

"He  of  some  wreck. 

"  Cer.  Set  't  down  ;  let's  look 

"  2  Oent.  Tis  like  a  coffin,  rir. 


I«VMk«H 


7 

Fii"   ■'■"J 


S5SL»j*5^»   i*  1 1  a*Mfcu^»*|d^!r:^S 


»tw^ii»it.<^a>«te  mmin  pm^tm 


.  .fc^MiialwMwn—lninwjniw-lftriixiMilinirin^AUl 


animi  jncnnditateia.  Corpus  tti:im  non  diminutum  Tel  quautitati* 
Iliole  BUperabuiulnri.i  niajiU'iiui!:]  <|iiil>i].-i  in  m  ci-utfiTe  propoaJlit.  El 
cuius  pectoie  bi'Livhin  jiiikliiilinliiiU  1:11141111111  ex  arboris  truiico  rumi 
procmiabant.     Quorum  digiti  quuntitntis  ddliitH.ni  aibi  lisnunijtsiTnrn 


i  etiam  singuluri 
ilivinam  creando  sibi  infusie." — Fol.  lsiv.  ed.  1508. 

The  reader,  I  think,  will  agree  with  me,  that  this  i 
brilliant  description  of  female  beauty  ;  and,  for  the  dm 
unhackneyed. 


"Leon.  Conn 

"Mar. 

M  Leon.  If  yo 

grant  it:  Pra 

IT  the  goda  ar 


'  What  mean  you  ? 
■pace  for  prayer, 


with  hi 


and  1  am  si 


Why  will  you  kill  m 

"  Lton.  To  satisfy  my  lady. 

"Mar.  Why  would  she  have  me  kill'd? 
Now,  as  1  can  remember,  by  my  troth, 
I  never  did  her  hurt  in  all  my  life] 
1  never  spake  bad  word,  nor  did  ill  turn 

I  trod  upon  a  worm  against  niv  will, 
But  1  wept  for  it.     Ho»  have  I  offended, 
Wherein  my  di'ath  might  yield  her  profit,  01 
My  life  imply  her  danger? 

Is  not  to  reason  of  the  deed,  but  do  it. 

"Afar.  You  will  not  do't  for  all  the  world,  1  he 
You  are  wall-favour'd,  and  your  looks  final»* 


11  -■nt 


ihear 


.       caught  hurt 

G..iudi..».th,  il  shuwM  iv 
Your  lady  Becks  my  life 
And  save  poor  me,  the  1 

And  will  despatch. 


Mr, 


+06  NOTES. 

"  Enter  Pirates,  tchilit  Marina  it  straggling. 
'•  1  Pir.  Hold,  TiUwi!  [Z*mt«ntfu 

"  1   Pir.  A  priie  !  a  pnze  1 

'-  3  Pir.    Half-part,    mats,   half-part.      Come,  let'i    have  her   ■ 
suddenly. 

[E.ttunl  Pirate*  »" '  " 


Note  26.    Page  294. 

"  Per.  Wherefore  cali'd  Maria»? 

"  Mar.  Call'd  Marina, 

For  1  «as  bora  at  Kb. 

"  Per.  At  tea  i  thy  mother? 

"  Star,  My  mother  was  the  daughter  of  a  ting; 
Who  died  the  very  minute  1  was  born, 
As  my  good  nurse  Lychorida  hath  oft 
Delivery  weeping. 


o  the  bottom  of  your  story, 
And  never  interrupt  you. 

■'Mar.  You'll  scarce  believe  me;  'twere  best  I  did  gin  i 

"  Per.  I  will  believe  yon  by  the  syllable 
Of  what  you  shall  deliver.     Vet,  give  me  leave- 
How  came  yon  in  these  parts  ?  where  were  yon  bred  ? 

"  Mar.  The  king,  my  father,  did  in  Tharsns  leave  me ; 
Till  cruel  Cleon,  with  his  wicked  wife, 
Did  seek  to  murder  me :  and  hiving  woo'd 
A  villain  to  attempt  it,  who  having  drawn, 
A  crew  of  pirates  came  and  rescued  me ; 
Brought  me  to  Mityleue.     But  now,  good  sir, 
Whit hor  will  you  have  me?     Why  do  yon  weep  ?     It  may 
You  think  me  an  impostor;  no,  good  faith; 
I  am  the  daughter  to  king  Pericles, 
If  good  king  Pericles  be." 


Note  27.    Page  297. 

"Per.  Hail,  Man!     To  perform  thy  just 
!  here  confess  mvself  the  king  of  Tyre ; 
Who,  frighted  from  mv  country,  did  wed 
The  fair  Thaisa,  at  Pentapolis. 


NOTES. 

At  sea  in  childbed  died  she,  but  brought  forth 

A  ]ii:;il-,.liil.t  aill'.l  Marina;  who,  0  gnddess, 

Wears  vet  thv  silvc-r  livery.     She  at  Tharsns 

Was  niiVs'd  with  I'l,™ ;  whom  at  fourteen  year 

Hi'  «.sight  to  murder  ;  but  her  better  stars 

Brought  her  to  Mitylene;  against  whose  shore 

hiding,  her  fortunes  brought  the  maid  aboard  11. 

Where,  by  her  own  most  clear  remembrance,  shi 

Made  known  herself  my  daughter." 

Shakespeare. 

George  Lillo  (the  memorable  truthcr  of  Georpe  Barnwell)  worked  up 
this  story  into  a  drumii  of  tlirw  nets.  Hero  L'hiloteti,  the  duughiur  nf 
(Jleon,  is  Q.vkkn  oF  Tharsus ;  and  wheu  l'oriclea  arrives,  he  recounts 
his  history  to  hor  in  tho  following  lines,  whioh  display  vary  consider- 
niih:  puttie  ability. 

*  But  to  my  purpose. 

Tis  more  than  twice  seven  years  since  I  beheld  thai 

With  my  Marina ;  both  were  infanta  than. 

Peace  and  security  smiled  on  your  birth) 

Hers  was  the  mdiWt  wi-Li>niVto  this  world 

That  e'er  was  '  Prince's  child  :  Born  on  the  sea, 

(Hetite  is  she  call'd  Marina,)  in  a  tempest, 

When  the  high  working  billows  kiss'd  the  moon, 

And  the  shrill  whistle  of  the  boa 

Born  wheu  her  mother  died !     That  latBi  nour 

Must  still  live  with  ma. — 0  you  gracious  gods! 

Why  do  you  maks  u»  love  your  goodly  gifts, 

And  snatth  thrm  si  i-aight  away  ';     The  waves  received 

My  queen.     A  sea-imte's  thuni  wiliti'ii  her  corpse; 

In  which  she  silent  lies  'midst  groves  of  coral, 

Or  in  a  glittering  bed  of  shining  shells.3 

The  air-fed  lamps  of  heaven,  the  spouting  whale. 

And  dashing  waters  that  roll  o'er  her  head. 

Compose  a  monument  to  hida  her  bones, 

is  heaven,  and  lasting  as  the  frame 


loatswain's  pipe 
of  death;—* 


Of  ui 


:t  II.  £ 


■untested  to  Mr.  Muure  bj 


For  what  I  did  hestnw: 


Their  pare. 


and  tht'ii 


-Marina,  A 


11.  S 


Lillo  had  imif-li  ti-.i.iiic  jviwcir,  iL.rifl  wrote  with  a  pat  boa  wliii'li  i»  iir-> 
tisliblo.  Hia  versification  is  uncommonly  harmonious.  Ha  was,  per 
Imps. the  last  of  tliti  old  school  of  the  drama;  and  there  are  passage 
in  some  of  bis  plays,  which  would  have  done  no  discredit  I"  hi?  :.'•■ 
celebrated  predeceaaorB. 


Kote  28.    Page  297. 

"  Thai.  Voice  sad  favour  I— 
You  are— you  are— 0  royal  Pirriclei!  [1 

"  Per.  What  means  the  woman  F  she  diet  1  help,  gentle 

"  Ctr.  Noble  sir, 
If  you  have  told  Diana's  altar  true, 
This  is  your  wife. 

"Per.  Reverend  appcarer,  n 

I  threw  her  o'erboard  with  these  very  an 

«  Or.  Upon  this  coast,  I  w 


"Ptr. 


Tis  m 


o  the  lady  ;— 0,  she's  but  o'erjoy'd. 
fcarlv,  one  Olust'ring  morn,  this  lady  was 
Thrown  on  this  shore.     1  oped  the  coffin,  and 
Found  there  rich  jewels;  recovered  her,  and  placed  her 
Here  in  Diana's  temple. 

"Per.  May  we  see  them? 

"  Cer.  Great  sir.  thiir  -hall  be  brought  you  to  my  house, 
Whither  I  invite  you.     Look  !  Thaisa  is 

•'  Thai.     0,  let  me  look  ! 
If  he  be  none  of  mine,  my  sanctity 
Will  to  my  sense  bend  no  licentious  ear. 
But  curb  it,  spite  of  seeing.     O,  my  lord, 
Are  you  not  Pericles?     Like  him  you  speak, 
Like  him  vou  are:    Did  you  not  name  a  tempts 
A  birth,  and  death  ? 

"Per.  The  voice  of  dead  Thaisa 

"  Thai.  That  Thaisa  am  I,  supposed  dead 


Wi  -in. 


n'd. 


"Per.  Immortal  Dian ! 

"  Thai.  Sow  1  «-now  you  better.- 

When  we  with  tears  parted  I'entapolis, 
The  king,  my  father,  gave  you  such  a  ring. 


"Per.  This,  this:  no  more,  you  gods !  v.ur  j.i 
■  Iik.:s  my  past  miseries  spurt.  Vou  shall  do  wil 
■'     touching  of  her  lip  I  may 

le,  be  buried 


..■-a-l  ti 


within  ti 


My  heart 
Leap  to  be  gone  into  my  mother's  bosom.  [Kneels  to  Thaisa. 

"  Per.  Lout,  who  kneels  hire  !     Flesh  of  thy  flesh,  Thais»  : 
Thy  burden  at  tbe  sea,  and  call'd  Marina, 
For  she  was  yielded  there. 

Wess'd  and  mine  own." 

Shakespeare. 


Note  29.    Page  209. 

"  Thin  story,  the  longest  in  the  book  before  us,  and  the  ground- 
work of  a  favourite  old  romance,  U  known  to  hare  existed  before  tliu 
year  1190. 

"In  the  |iriil.. .;!!•■  to  tin-  Iliulifli  r-.n/ince  on  thin  subject,  called 
KynOe  AfolYNe  ov  Thyre,  and  printed  by  Wynkyn  do  Worde,  in 
1510, we  are  told;  'Sly  worshypfull  mayster,  Wynkyn  da  Wordc-,  ha- 
yynge  a  lytell  boko  of  an  auncyent  hjHtory  of  u  kyngc  sriuictymi- 
reynyno  in  the  countree  of  Thyre  Called  Appulvn.  forii-i.-i-ny n^t.'" his 
nialfortuuas  and  peryllouH  adventure»  right  espouventablc*,'  bryelly 
com py led,  and  pytcoiis  for  to  here;  the  which  boke  I,  Robert  L\>p- 
lande,'  have  me  applyed  for  to  translate  out  of  the  Frensshe  language 
into  our  maternal  Englysahe  tongue,  at  the  eihortacyon  of  my  forsayd 
mayater,  aeoordynge  dyreetly  to  myn  auctor:  gladly  fullowyoge  the 
trace  of  my  maynter  C'aiton,  begynnynge  with  small  story ts  and 
pamfletes  and  so  to  other.'  The  English  romance,  or  the  French, 
which  is  the  name  thing,  exactly  corresponds  in  many  piwsagea  with 
the  test  of  the  Gesta.  I  will  instance  iu  the  following  one  only,  in 
which  thecomplic«,[inn  r,[  tin-  fublt  cmmienccH.  King  Appolyn  dines 
in  disguise  in  the  hall  of  king  Altistratea.  'Came  in  the  kynges 
daughter,  uccompanyed  with  tunny  ladyea  and  damoyselleK,  whom 
f|ili-nd.:TitL'  Litaute  «ere  U«,  Inaij  u<-  n-h/l-:.  for  her  r"..;i.-_mte coloure  wan 
medled1  with  grete  favour.  She  dranke  unto  her  fader,  and  to  all  the 
l Tiles,  and  to  idl  them  thai,  hud  hen  at  t.fm  j.lay  of  Ihe  Khcklr.'  And 
espyed  kynge  Appolyn,  and  then 


!e  and  pleasaunt  a  player  at  the  ahclde,  a 
fore  have  I  made  hym  to  come  and  *ottpa  with  my  kuygktus.     And  yf 
ye  wyll  knowe  what  he  is,  demauadu  hym  ;  for  peradventure  he  wyll 


tell  you  sooner  than  me.  Methynke  that  he  is  departed  from  mm 
good  place,  anil  I  think.-  in  my  invmli;  that  soinethyngo  is  befallen 
hym  /or  which  h-.'  is  wiry.  This  anyd,  the  noble  dnmoysell  wento  unto 
Appolyn  and  sayd,  Fayre  sir,  graunt  me  a  boon.  And  he  graunted 
her  with  goode  herte.  And  she  sayd  unto  hym.  albeyt  that  your 
vysnge  he  triste  and  hevy,  your  behaviour  stwwetb  noblesse  and 
facundyte,  and  therefore  I  pray  you  to  tell  me  of  youre  aflayre  and 
estate.  Appolyn  answered,  yf  ye  dcniaunde  of  my  ryebesses,  I  have 
lost  them  in  the  so».  Tho  damoyseil  sayd,  I  pray  you  that  yon  toll 
me  of  your  adventures.' '  But  in  the  Gesta,  the  princess  at  entering 
the  royal  hail,  kisses  all  the  knights  and  lords  present,  except  the 
stranger.  Tnssius  says,  that  about  the  year  1520,  one  Alamamus 
Itinucinus,  u  Fl"rehtLni\  translated  into  Latin  this  fabulous  history; 
and  that  tho  translation  was  corrected  by  Ber«aldus.  V.isnius  cer- 
tuiuly  cannot  mean  that  he  translated  it  from  the  Greek  original."— 
Warton. 

"The  history  of  ApoLMWttJS,  king  op  Tybf,  was  supposed  by  Mark 
Welser,  when  he  printed  it  in  1990,  tn  have  been  translated  from  the 
Creek  a  thousand  years  before  [Fabr,  Bib.  Gr.  v.  6,  p.  821].  It 
rertainly  bears  strong  marks  of  a  Greet  original,  though  it  is  not 
(that  I  know)  now  extant  in  that  language.  The  rhythmical  poem, 
under  that  title,  in  modem  Greek,  was  re- translated  (If  I  may  so 
speak)  from  the  Latin  irh  auriMijj  ffl  'PwpaucV  y\t&ff-aar.     Du  Freme, 


ciii'e)  unions  tho  Gksta  Hohanohvm.  In  un  edition,  which  I  have, 
printed  at  limn  n  in  lrv.il.  it  makes  the  154th  chapter.  Towards  ths 
hitter  end  of  the  xiill)  LX-nl'iry.  fii-1/r.i,  o/  Viiabo,  in  his  Tanthton  or 
I'liiversiil  Chri.ni^l.-,  in^iidii  this  romance  as  part  of  the  history  af 
e  Christ.    It  begins  thus 


tin)  third  Anti'u'litis,  a  Unit  i'JU  y 


[BIS.  Reg.  14,  c 


lL]i- 


Filia  Stleuci  regis  stat  tiara  di 

it  defuncts  pater  arsit 

I,  pressap 


Matra]  ne 
Bes  nab 


:114    (, 


•>  The  rest  in  tho  same  metre,  with  one  pentameter  only  to  two 
hexameters. 

"  Gower,  by  his  own  acknowledgment,  took  his  story  from  the 
1'antlieon;  as  tin  uutli'T  ("hnrver  lie  was)  of  J'e  rifles,  prince  of  Tyre, 
professes  to  have  followed  Gower."— Tykwhitt. 

"  It  is  observable,  i  lint  the  lusro  nf  this  tale  ia,  in  Gowor's  poem,  «i 
in  the  present  pi uy.  i-allcd  /n-hir-  nf  Tyre  :  in  the  Gerta  KoMASOttl'M/ 
nnil  Copland's  prose  romance,  lie  is  entitled  King,  Most  of  til* 
incidents  of  tho  piny  are  found  in  tin-  f'uri/..s»(o  Aumutig,  and  a  fe* 
nf  Gower'a  expressions  art  ix'i.a.-i"iiully  borrowed.  However,  I  think 
it  is  not  unlikely  that  there  may  have  been  (though  I  have  not  met 


ThL-i.ll. 


rictly  Hue.     He  ii  frequently  ( 


NOTES. 


411 


with  it)  an  early  prose  translation  of  this  popular  story  from  the  Gebt* 
KtiMASiiKi'M,  iii  which  the  name  of  ;ipollonius  was  changed  to  l'erielei' : 
to  which,  likewise,  tho  author  of  this  drams,  inai  b;ivc  been  indebted. 
"  The  numerous  corruptions  that  are  found  in  the  original  edition 
in  1609,  which  Iklvc  been  carefully  preserved  and  augmented  in  all 
the-  subsequent  impressions,  pveiiubly  arose  friitn  its  having  been  /re- 
ijwnlhj  exhibited  on  'If  thuje.  In  tin-  four  quarto  editions  it  is  called 
tilt  much  admir'd  play  of  i'Lme'i.Ks,  Prince  01'  Tire;  and  it  is  men- 
tinned  by  many  ancient  writers  as  a  very  popular  performance."— 

M  ALONE." 

"There  are  three  French  translations  of  this  story,  vii.  'La 
chronique  d'Appolin,  Roy  de  Thyr ; '  4to.  Geneva,  bl.  1.  no  date ;  and 
'Plaisante  et  agrcable  Histoire  d'Appolouius  Prince  de  Thyr  en 
Affrique,  et  Roi  d'Antioeho :  trnduit  par  Gilles  Coroset,' 8vo.  Pari», 
1530;  and  (in  the  seventh  volume  of  the  Histoires  Tragiqae*,  &c, 
Ilium.  ltiU-1,  par  Fnmcjois  lie  lie -forest,  kc.)  '  Accidens  diuers  aduenus 
a  Appnllonie  Iiiii  de.-  Tyriens ;  ses  malheurs  sur  mer,  sea  pertes  de 
femme  et  tille.  et  In  tin  biurcuse  de  tons  eii.-iemble.' 

"The  popularity  "!  this  tide  of  Apollonius  may  be  inferred  From 
the  very  numerous  MSS.  in  which  it  appears, 

"Both  editions  n|'  Tuuic's  translation  are  now  before  me.  Thomas 
Twine  was  the  oontinuator  of  Phaer's  Virgil,  which  was  left  imperfect 
in  the  year  1558."—. Steeyenb. 


Note  30.    Page  302. 

From  this  story  we  learn  (as  Warion  observes),  "  that  when  a 
company  was  assembled,  if  a  juggler  '''  minstrel  were  not  present,  it 
was  the  custom  of  our  ancestors  to  entertain  themselves  by  relating  or 
bearing  a  series  of  adventures.  Thus  the  genera!  plan  of  the  Can- 
TtaHiiiiY  Tales,  which  at  iirst  sight  seems  to  be  merely  an  ingenious 
invention  of  the  poet  to  serve  a  particular  occasion,  is  in  a  great 
measure  founded  on  a  fashion  of  anoient  life :  and  Chaucer,  in  sup- 

C'ng  each  of  the  pilgrims  to  tell  a  tale  as  they  are  travelling  to 
ket's  shrine,  only  makes  them  adopt,  n  mode  of  amusement  which 
was  common  to  the  conversations  of  his  ago.  I  do  not  deny  that 
Chaucer  has  shown  his  address  in  the  use  and  application  of  thin 

Sir  Walter  Scott,  in  bis  notes  to  the  third  Canto  of  "Marmion," 
cites  this  story  immediately  from  Gc.rva.-e  of  Tilbury  (Olia  Imperial, 
ap.  Script,  ter.  Bruntvic.  vol.  i.  p.  71(7).  without  kinm  ing  apparently 
of  its  existence  in  the  Gesta  Ri)Manc>i»;ii.  The  knight's  name  in 
Gervase  is  Q/lierl,  which  seems  to  form  the  only  difference  in  tha 
stories:  Sir  Walter  mentions  tin-  adventure  of  two  Bohemian  knights, 
but  not  altogether  as  it  occurs  in  the  authority  ho  has  given.  I 
shall  transcribe  the  original. 

"Niderius  tellcth  this  story:  ip  the  bofders  of  the  kingdonm  of 


412  NOTES. 

Bohemia  lieth  a  valley,  in  which  divers  nights  together  was  heiiri 
clattering  of  armour,  and  clamors  of  men,  as  if  two  armies  had  met  in 
pitcht  but  tell.  Two  knights  that  inhabited  ucerc  unto  this  prodiiji'His 
place,  agreed  to  artne  themselves,  and  discover  the  secret»  of  this  in- 
visible army.  The  night  was  appointed,  and  ucconimodated  at  all 
assayes  they  rode  to  the  place,  «here  they  might  descry  two  battel* 
ready  ordered  for  present  skirmish .  they  could  easily  distinguish  the 
culoura  and  pravant  liveries  of  everie  company:  but  drawing  neere, 
the  one  {whose  courage  began  to  relent)  told  the  other  that  ho had 
scene  sufficient  fur  his  part, and  tlmught  it  good  not  to  dally  with  such 
prodegiea,  wherefore  further  thau  he  was  he  would  n.-it  go.  The  other 
culled  him  coward,  and  pricht  on  towards  the  armies;  from  one  of 
which  an  horse n hi h  eame  forth,  foujrht  with  liiin,  and  cut  offhia  head. 
At  which  sight  the  other  fled,  and  told  the  newes  the  nest  morning. 
A  great  confluence  of  poodle  searching  for  the  body,  found  it  is  one 
place,  the  head  in  another,  hut  n.  ilinr  rmd'i  discern  the  footing  of 
horse  or  man;  onely  the  print  of  birds  feet,  and  those  in  isyrii 
places,  Ac." — Hi-.vs'.ii'iL''-  llif.-iirfki.  v,j  ill'-  lilf'ssfj.l  Angi'U,  pages  55-!, 
555.     1035. 

"The  most  singular  tale  of  the  kind,"  says  Sir  Walter  Scott,  "ii 
contained  in  un  extract  oammunioated  to  me  by  my  friend  Mr.  Surtecs 
of  Mainsforth,  in  the  Bishopric,  who  copied  it  from  a  M8.  note  in  a 
copy  of  Burthoggo  '  On  the  nature  of  Spirits,'  Svo.  ltifH.  which  lilJ 
been  the  property  of  the  late  Mr.  Oill,  attorney-general  to  Egerton, 
Bishop  of  Durham." — Note*  to  Marmion.  This  extract  is  in  Latin ; 
as  it  is  certainly  very  curious,  I  annex  a  translation. 

"It  will  nol  In.-  led  ions  if  I  Mute,  upon  j.|i,..  faith  of  a.  very  worth  J 
and  nnble  person,  a  wonderful  I  king  of  thi-  kind,  which   happened  in 


l'lilik   '■!'    1  l.i      I  «i  ed   '.virb     Ids     !  I  :■.!■)■  | .  ...  1:;,I    I  .y    ,..•■.■).  i-ui     ■■■Til!!.: 

Scot,  formerly,  as  ho  thought,  well  known  to  him.  The  latter  com- 
menced a  furious  attack  ;  and  as  it  was  permitted  amongst  foes  during 
a  contest  (there  being  but  a  very  brief  space  f.ir  niustinn),  they  met 
one  another  with  rapid  course  ami  hostile  minds.  Our  knight,  in  tin- 
first  career, unable  t"  ivithstand  the  impetuous  attack  of  his  adversary, 
was  thrown,  horse  and  man,  to  the  ground;  and  discharged  copious 
streams  of  blood  from  wotmls  in  Hie  head  and  breast.  Me  resembled 
u  dying  man,  which  the  other  "bsr-rviiiir.  uddn  .-s.  d  him  with  soothing 
words  :  ami  promised  as,- isramv  if  In  would  follow  his  instruction;, 
and  abstain  from  every  thought  of  sacred  things.  Moreover,  on  con- 
dition that  he  offered  neither  prayers  nor  vows  either  to  God,  the 
Virgin  Mary,  or  to  any  saint  whatever,  he  engaged  t<>  restore  him  to 
health  and  strength  in  a  short  time.  Tin-  condition  being  complied 
with,  in  consequence  of  the  agony  he  suite  red,  the  cunning  knave, 
murmuring  I  kjiovr  not  what  kind  of  dishonest  murmur,  took  him  by 
tho  hand  ;  and  sooner  than  it.  is  said,  raised  him  upon  his  feet  whole, 
as  before,  iliil  our  knight,  struck  with  tho  greatest  terror  at  the 
unheard  of  novelty  of  the  rase,  exclaimed,  '  My  Jesus  ! '  or  something 
like  it.  Looking  about  him  immediately  afterward,  he  saw  neither 
Lis  enemy  nor  any  oue  else;  and  the  steed,  which  but  very  lately  hod 


.NOTES. 


413 


been  afflicted  with  a  grievous  wound,  was  feeding  quietly  by  tlio 
river-aide.  He  returned  to  the  camp  in  great  astonishment ;  and 
fearful  of  obtaining  no  rri'-lit.  in  1.1k.'  first  instance  concealed  the  cir- 
cumstance ;  but  '"'ii  I  lie  completion  "I'  the  war  lit-  dec  In  ml  the  whole 
tn  his  ounfecsor.  There  is  no  doubt  but  it  was  n  delusion  ;  and  the 
vile  deceit  of  that  subtle  cozener  i-  a|i|uicat.  by  wliii-h  he  would  have 
seduced   a   Christian   hero  to  use   forbidden  aid.     The  name  af  this 

Srson  (in  other  respects  noble  and  distinguished)  1  forbear  to  men- 
n;  since  there  is  no  question  but  the  devil,  by  permission  of  God, 
may  assume  what  shape  be  pleases ;  nay,  even  that  of  an  angel  of 
light  :  as  tlio  hallowed  eye  of  tin;  Almighty  observes." 

The  MS.  Chronicle.  Sir  Waller  add?,  from  which  this  estract  was 
taken,  cannot  now  be  found. 


Many  strange  stories  are  related  of  «nirils;  among  others,  let  the 
reader  take  the  fallowing.  A  young  and  beautiful  girl,  of  a  noble 
Scottish  family,  consorted  with  a  spirit,  who  was  discovered  in  her 
"The  clamour  Hies  abroad,  the  neighbours  come  in  to  be  spec- 


who  seeing  this  pr"dii/ious  ap,Ttaoli;.  broke  out  into  these  words  of 
St.  John  the  Evangelist,  lit  Veriwni  mm  fnelmn  '■'!.  And  the  Word 
was  made  flesh  :  which  was  no  «inner  spoke,  but  tin:  devil  arose,  and 
suddenly  vanished  in  a  terrible  atomic,  carrying  wi!h  bim  the  roofo  of 
the  chamber,  and  setting  flre  on  the  bed  wherein  be  bad  lieu,  which 
was  in  a  moment  burned  to  ashes.  Sine  mis  within  three  days  after 
delivered  of  a  monster,  audi  as  tin:  father  appeared  unto  (hem,  of  so 
odible  an  aspect,  that  the  mid  wins  eaus-d  it  instantly  to  be  burnt, 
lest  the  infamy  of  the  daughter  mi;;ht  too  much  reflect  upon  the  iimo- 
cencic  of  the  noble  parents."— IlfcYWOop's  Hif-rnn'ltie,  lib.  viji.  p,  512. 

*'  Another  thing,  much  more  admirable,  hapned  in  the  diocesse  of 
Cullein.  Diuers  princes  and  noblemen  being  assembled  in  a  benuti- 
full  and  fairc  palku'e.  which  was  scituate  u|ion  the  riuer  Rhino,  they 
behold  u  boat  or  small  barga  make  toward  the  shore,  drawne  by  a 
swan  in  a  sillier  ehaiue.  the  one  end  fastened  about  her  necke,  the 
other  to  the  vessel,  and  in  it  an  unknownc  souldiir,  a  man  of  a  comely 
personage,  and  irr:iee!idl  pro~cnec.  who  ste|jt  upon  the  shore:  which 
done,  the  boat,  guided  by  the  swan,  hit  him.  and  fir-tod  downe  the 
riaer.  This  man  fell  afterward  in  league  with  a  fniro  gentlewoman, 
married  her,  and  by  her  hail  many  children.  After  some  yeares,  the 
same  swinne  came  with  the  sumo  bar^e  uulo  the  same  place;  ttni 
souldier  entring  into  it,   was  carted   thence   the  way   he  came,  after 


Thin  beautiful  Incident  of  tho  awan  drawing  the  boat  » 
think,  in  "  Morta  Arthur." 

[Obviously  we  have  bore  tlio  story  of  Lohengrin  ii 
(wU-tl  form,— Ed.] 


Note  32.    Page  315. 

Bod, Bond, or Boaflht  m Mud  of  chena:  U  jeu  dei  Eckea.  Tint 
called,  according  tti  Du  Fromie,  from  tho  Arabia  or  Fenian  word, 
KcAi-ii,  nr  kiii^.  I'lTiuiH,-  (his  U  tin.'  principal  piece  in  tho  game 
rsoiulMHiiliue  (l,il>.  i  ■!■■  Vrtnln)  finishes  tLu  following  description, 
which  will  noiiiunhut  eluciiliile  the  leit: — 

"Sen  species  snllus  eiernsiit,  wv  quoque  «caci. 
Miles,  ct  Aljihinus,  [towns,  Hun,  Virgo,  Pedenque, 
Id  catnpum  primum  ile  m>s  istis  snliunt  Ives, 
Ret  ;  Pedes,  Virgo:  Pedes  in  rectum  salit,  ntque 
Virgo  pur  obliqtium,  lies  j-nltn  un,l[l,-'t  nti'oque, 
Ante  ratroqua  tunn  tun  Bax  quara  Virgr 
Ante  Pedes  solum  ;  cnpti-ns  nliliquus  In  ante, 
Cum  Unun  mi  uielaui  stadil  perairrerit,  ex  tune 
Sicut  Virgo  sulit,  in  .iimpLim  verb  secundum 
T«»  lib  «aliunt,  in  rectum  Roccus,  eique 
Suli  concessum  est  ultra  cltraque  salire. 
Oblique  salit  Alphiims,  i-e.1  Miles  utroque 

Of  the  origin  of  this  play  tho  aame  worthy  writer  observe» 

"  Est  alius  Indus  sCKOruin,  Iwius  Ulymis, 
Lodtis  Triijami  ifu,'ia  frvit  in  obsidians, 
Ke  vol  tvdci-i't  jivi'i'i'i-es  in  tempore  trcugic, 
Vtl  belli,  si  qui  pro  vulnerlbUB 
In  caatns  :   Ui'lus  qui  mstris  n 
Inventor  cnjii» jure laudandui 
Suit  eausaum  laudis i  adver 


i----iinii.imr. 


r. 


[To  judge  fr 
l"  Ibis  tale,  it  B_ 

nuknown  game.  It  is  nothing  more  nor  lees  than  cheita ;  and  the 
aeeount  of  it.  tlnniKh  riilluT  i-iiiclrsr.  is  ijiiili-  I'lt'ur  when  we  take  int» 
account  the  way  in  which  the  pant'  wan  player!  ut  the  time  whra 

llii'  tli at»  wiih  written.    There  i-  ii'itliiii^'  iTiia h  in  the  ih-seripti"ri. 

but  a  good  deal  is  omilti  il  which  mi^hl  In  have  been  inserted,  anil 
i'1-rtiiin  slaleinenls  are  wanting  in  clearness.  The  description  of  the 
RochuB  or  Rook  requires  nn  remark.  Alphinus,  the  Bishop,  is  not  m 
easily  understood.  The  test  is  prnbubly  in  fault,  for  il  in  nut  [n-wsililr 
"  " '    *  with  one  anotlai. 


ncinii'jli  ii  II  I  In'  statements  innde  about  ihia  p 


NOTES.  415 

It  should  be  rinu  mbi-rcd  thiit  the  Bishop's  move  was  limited  to  two 
square*,  mi'l  tlmt  be  could  leap  over  an  intervening  man,  at  tho 
time  this  desi'ri|itiou  was  wriUcu.  The  Knight  is  described 
rrctlv.  and  it»  power  was  [hen  what  it  is  now.  As  to  the  Pawns,  the 
King's  P.  seems  to  be  the  Merchant,  the  Bishop's  P.  the  Wool- 
Ciirder,  and  the  Rook's  P.  the  Husbandman.  The  Queen's  and 
Knight's  ]'.  are  not  mentioned.  The  i'uwns  queened  as  with  us;  but 
though  they  attacked  adverse  pieces  diagonally  as  with  us,  on  eap- 
iniing  them  thc-y  moved  straight  on.  The  Queen  was  the  weakea' 
piece  on  the  board,  only  command  iky  the  four  squares  of  Hie  sum 
eolour  adjacent  tn  that  she  stood  on.  The  King  moved  as  with  m 
He  was  allowed  once  in  a  game  to  move  like  a  Knight.  Ac 
parently  the  operation  of  Caatiing  ll  nbaourely  alluded  to  In  the  laal 
sentence  hut  one  of  the  description.— El>.] 


Notk  33.     Pago  319. 

"  This  fable  is  told  in  the  Greek  legend  of  Barlaau  and  Josa- 
phat,  written  by  Johannes  Damasdiuis  :  and  in  Castou'a  Golden 
I.EOENnE,  fol.  129.  It  is  also  found  in  Clehicalis  Dibcipliha  o( 
Alphon  hub."— W  a  hton. 

Mr.  Way  has  told  thia  tale  so  beautifully,  that  no  apology  is  m 
wry  for  its  introduction  here. 

"THE  LAY  t)F  THE  LITTLE  BIRD. 


"In  da; 


ofy. 


There  liv'd  a  carle  as  wealthy  as  a  prince : 
His  name  1  wot  not;  but  his  wide  domain 
Was  rich  with  stream  and  forest,  mead  and 
To  crown  the  whole,  one  manor  he  posaesa'd 
In  choke  delight  so  passing  all  the  rest, 
No  castle,  burgh,  or  city  might  compare 
is  quaint  bi 


The  so. 
Like  s. 


efab 


is  paradise  of  all  delight; 


iwd  stripling,  all  to  riot  bent, 


endthiift  heir,  to  bring  great  wealth  to  aou^V,t. 


NOTES. 

A  lofty  tower  and  strong,  the  building  stood 
Midst  i  vast  plain  surrounded  by  a  flood ; 
And  hence  one  pebblbpnved  channel  stray M, 
Tbnt  compass'd  in  a  clustering  orchard's  shade : 
Tivas  a  choice  charming  plat ;  abundant  round 
Flowers,  roses,  «Junius  spices  duth'd  the  grouadj 
Unnumber'd  kinds,  and  siii  prei'mcly  shower'd 
Such  aromntick  balsam  as  they  flower'd, 
Their  fragrance  might  have  stay'd  nun's  parting  breatk. 
And  chas'd  the  hovering  agonv  of  death. 
The  sward  one  hjvcl  held,  and'duse  above 
Till  shiuely  trees  their  leafy  mantles  wove, 
All  equal  growth,  and  lav  their  branches  came, 
Thick  set  with  g':«dliv-t  linii:;  (if  every  name. 
In  midst,  to  cheer  the  ravish'd  gaaer's  view, 
A  gushing  fount  its  waters  upward  threw, 
Thence  slowly  on  with  crystal  current  pass'd, 
And  crept  into  the  distail.  finod  at  last: 
But  nigh  its  source  s  pine's  umbrageous  head 
Stretiifi'd  far  and  wide  in  death less  verdure  spread, 
Met  with  broad  shade  the  summer's  sultry  gleam. 
And  through  (he  livclung  rear  shni  nut  the  brain, 
e  :— yet  still  the  place  was  bl 


Witt 


c  passing  all  II 


m 


is  bird  of  et 
Had  riVd  hi-  dwelling  in  the  i ui'ted  plnej 
There  still  he  sat.  and  there  with  amnrous  lay 
Wak'd  the  dim  morn,  and  clos'd  the  parting  day: 
Match'd  with  these  strains  ■  ■!'  lintcd  sweetness  wrought 
The  violin  and  full-ton'd  harp  were  nought; 
Of  power  they  were  with  new-born  joy  to  move 
The  cheerless  heart  of  Inng-dcsponding  love ; 
Of  power  so  strange,  that  sh-uld  I  hey  i/esise  to  sound. 
And  the  blithe  songster  dee  the  mystiek  ground, 
That  goodly  orchard's  .-«a.,  the  ;ino-tree's  shade, 
Trees,  flowers,  and  fount,  would  nil  like  vapour  fade. 
'  Listen,  listen  to  my  lay  I ' 
Thus  the  merry  notes  did  chime, 
'All  who  mighty  love  obey, 
Sadly  wasting  in  your  prime, 
Clerk  and  laiek,  grave  and  gay! 
Yet  do  yn,  before  the  rest, 
Gentle  maidens,  mark  me  tell  I 
Store  my  lesson  in  your  breast, 
Trust  me  it  shall  profit  well : 
Hear,  and  heed  me,  and  be  bleas'd  I ' 
So  sang  the  bird  of  old  ;  but  when  he  spied 
The  carle  draw  near,  with  ilter'd  tone  he  cried— 
'Back,  river,  to  thy  source;  and  thee,  tall  tower. 
Thee,  castle  strong,  may  gaping  earth  devour! 


Bend  down  vmir  heads,  je  gaudy  flowers,  and  fadel 
And  withn'd  be  each  fruit-tree's  mantling  shade  1 
Be  Death  these  beauteous  bra  aches  once  were  seen 
Brave  gentle  knights  disporting  on  the  green, 
And  lovelr  dames  ;  and  oft,  these  flowers  among, 
Stay'd  the  blithe  bands,  and  joy'd  to  hear  my  song; 
Nor  would  they  hence  retire,  nor  quit  the  grove, 
Till  many  a  vow  were  past  of  mutual  love; 
These  more  would  cherish,  those  would  more  dcserv*; 
Cost,*      ■ 


Obitt 
A  faitc 


viiiain  L 


Foul  glut 
Nor  heeds  nor  nea 
"So  spake  the  1 
Indignantly  he  els 
And  straight  was 
'     ■'  i  flora's  bi( 


achful 


t  stirr'd 


Bent  was  his  wit  alone  by  quail 

To  snare,  and  sell  him  for  a  passing  price. 

So  well  he  wrought,  so  craftily  he  spread 

In  the  thick  foliage  green  his  slender  thread, 

That  when  at  eve  the  little  sonester  sought 

His  wonted  spray,  his  heedless  foot  was  caught. 

'How  have  I  harm'd  you?'  straight  he  'gan  to  cry, 

'  And  wherefore  would  you  do  me  thus  to  die  ?  '— 

'Nay,  fear  not,' quoth  the  clown, 'for  death  or  wrong[ 

J  only  seek  to  profit  by  thy  song  ; 


I'll  ,;, 


thee  a  fine 


It  thou 


and  of  se 

But  sing  thou  shall;  for  if  thou  piny 'it  the  mute, 
I'll  spit  thee,  bird,  and  pick  thy  bones  to  boot.' 
■Ah,  wo  is  me!'  the  little  thrall  replied, 
'  Who  thinks  of  song,  in  prison  doom'd  to  bide  ? 
And,  were  I  cook'd,  my  bulk  might  scarce  afford 
One  scanty  mouthful  to  my  hungry  lord.' 

"  What  may  I  more  relate  1— the  captive  wight 
Assay'd  to  melt  the  villain  all  he  might: 
And  fairly  promis'J,  were  he  once  set  free. 
In  gratitude  to  teach  him  secrets  three ; 
Three  secrets,  all  so  marvellous  and  rare. 
Hi»  race  knew  nought  thut  might  with  these  compar». 

"The  carle  prick 'd  up  his  ears  amain  ;  he  loos'd 
The  songster  thrall,  by  Idvo  of  gain  sedne'd  : 

Sped  the  blithe  bird,  and  there  at  ease  he  stay'd. 

And  trick'd  his  plumes  full  leisurely,  1  trow, 

Till  the  carle  claim'd  his  promise  from  below  : 

'  Right  gladly,'  quoth  the  bird  ; '  now  grow  thee  wise : 

All  human  prudence  few  brief  lines  comprize : 


'  Keep  then  thy  silly  lesson  for  thyself; 

Tu  prick  thy  memory  with  advice  like  this, 

f  '!■■  1'To ; 
Now  may'at  thou  hold  it  fast  fur  evermore. 
Mark  next  my  second  rule,  nod  sadly  know, 


He  felt  the  morki-ry  "f  the  wnigster's  strain. 

'  Peace,'  quoth  the  bird ;  '  my  third  is  far  the  "best ; 


Stiii-.!  thou  the  precious  ti 
What  good  thou  bast,  sk  eh 

— He  spoke,  and  twittering  flad 
Straight,  sunk  in  earth,  the  gui 
Down  fall  the  fruits,  the  wither 
Fades  all  the  beauteous  plat,  so 
Into  thin  air,  anil  never  more  is 
"Such  was  the  meed  of  avari 
The  carle  who  all  would  gather 


f.lll  LI'   i-mijl  THEE  CIST. 

way  full  fiut. 
□g  fountain  dries, 
pmu-tree  .lies, 
rol,  so  green, 

: — bitter  cost ! 


a  be  found  in  Lydgate,  entitled  "  The  Chorle 


Notb-M.     Page  322. 

TIlia  ia  componndeii  of  two  BtorieB,  apparently  from  the  QoMcn 
Legende,  foL  218.  "A  ruonke  that  had  ben  a  rybauiie  in  y«  worlds 
and  a  player,  tuupli.il  by  a  «yoked  spyrite,  «old.-  ret  time  agayne  to 
yB  worlde.  Ami  us  Saytit  liemarde  ri.-toynod  hym,  he  demuundtd 
hym  wherof  lie  sholde  lytie.  Ami  he  answered  hym  yl  he  coude  well 
playe  at  the  ilyce,  mid  ho  shot, L;  well  lyiu-  tlierhy.  And  Sayut  Ber- 
nartie  sayd  to  hym.  If  I  delyuer  to  the  ony  good  wylt  thou  come  to 
mi!  ugiiyii  oric-iy  yero  that  1  miiy  parte  balte  agayo  with  the.  And  he 
hud  grete  joyc  therof,  and  promysed  hym  so  lo  do.  And  than  Sayni 
Bernardo  said,  i  tint  then;  shoMe  bo  dedyvered  to  hym  twenty  shyl- 
iyuges.  And  than  ho  wonto  liys  way  thcnvilh.  And  this  holy  mil  a 
dyd  this  for  to  drawe  byin  ninu-no  to  the  rclygyon  as  he  dyd  after. 
And  so  he  wculi-  ferlli  jtid  lost  all.  and  enm  ftguyue  all  confused  tofure 
y*  gate.  And  whan  f-iiynt  lli.rnnrde  knewe  hym  there,  he  wente  M 
hym  joyously  and  opened  liys  hippe  for  to  parte  the  gnyne,  and  he 
suyd,  Fader  I  have  wonne  no  thynge,  but  havu  lost  your  catayle, 
reeeyue  me  if  it  please  you  for  to  be  your  catayle.  And"  Saynte  Ber- 
uarrte  answered  to  hym  awetcly,  if  it  be  so,  it  is  better  that  I  reeeyue 
the  than  leso  bothe  y*  one  and  that  otber.  1  On  a  tyme  Saynt 
li.Tuarde  rode  upon  an  hors  by  the  way,  and  mette  a  vylayne  by  y* 


NOTES. 

waye  whiche  aayd  to  hym  that  lie  had  not  hys  hert  forme  and  stable 
in  prayenge.  And  y1'  vylayne  or  ltplondysshc  111:111  had  grete 
denpyte  therof,  and  anvil  llii.t  he  had  liyw  horte  ferme  and  stable 
in  all  hys  prayers.  And  Saynt  Bernardo  which  wr.hle  vnynquyssbe 
hym,  and  sfiewe  nil  fUjj  aayd  to  hym.  Departe  a  lytell  Fro  mo,  and 
begyD  thy  Pater  Nosier  in  the  beat  en  tent  thou  canst,  and  if  y°  canst 
fynysshe  it  without  thytikynir  on  ony  other  thyutro.  w'out  doubte  I 
shall  gyue  to  the  the  In  us  that  1  am  on.  And  thou  shalte  promyse  to 
me  by  thy  fayth,  that  if  thou  thynko  on  any  other  Ihynge,  y"  pluilte 
not  byde  it  fro  me.  And  the  man  was  gladde,  ami  reputed  that  hers 
hys,  and  gratinted  it  hym,  and  went  aparic.  ami  began  hys  Pater 
\o.-tor,  and  he  hud  net  sayd  the  liali'e  nlu-:i  he  remembered  yf  ln- 
sholdo  hauc  y"  sadle.  withall,  and  tberwilh  he  relumed  to  Saynt  Her 
narde,  and  sayd  that  lie  had  thought  in  prnytnge.  And  after  y'  he 
had  no  more  wyll  Ui  anaunt '  hym." 


Note  3fl.     Page  333. 

The  reader  perceives  this  is  the  story  of  Giiidn  or  Guy,  Earl  oi 
Warwick :  and  probably  thin  ia  the  early  outline  of  the  life  and  death 
of  that  ronovviiul  champion.* 

"  Many  romances  were  at  first  little  more  than  h-wuls  of  devotion, 
containing  the  pilgrimage  of  an  old  warrior.  At  length,  as  chivalry 
came  more  into  vogue,  and  tin-  stores  of  invention  «ere  in  crease  il,  tie- 

Coutbful  and  active  part  of  tlie  pilgrim's  life  was  also  written,  and  a 
mg  series  of  imaginary  martial  adventures  waa  added,  In  whjub  his 
religious  was  eclipsed  by  his  heroio  character,  and  the  pUnitent 
was  lost  in  the  knight-errant.  That  which  waa  the  principal  subject 
of  the  short  and  simple  legend,  became  only  the  remote  catastrophe  ot 
the  voluminous  romance.  And  hence,  by  decrees,  it  waa  almuat  an 
established  rule  of  ..■very  romance,  tor  the  knight  to  end  his  days  in 
a  hermitage.  Cervantes  bus  ridiculed  ibis  circumstance  with  great 
pleasantry,  where  Don  Quixote  holds  a  grave  debate  with  Sane  ho, 
whether  he  shall  turn  aaiut  or  archbishop. 

"  So  reciprocal, or  rather  so  convertible,  was  the  pious  and  the  mili- 
tary character,  that  even  si 'me  of  the  Aih-ti.i-s  had  t.h.-ir  romance.  In 
the  ninth  century,  ihe  chivalrous  ami  fabling  spirit  of  the  Spaniard* 
transformed  Saint  James  into  a  knight.  They  pretended  that  he. 
appeared  and  fought  with  irresistible  fury,  completely  armed,  aud 
mounted  on  a  stately  white  horse,  in  moat  of  their  engagements  with 
the  Moore;  and  Wean  so,  by  ids:  superior  prowess  in  these  bloody  con- 
flicts, he  was  supposed  to  have  freed  the  Spaniards  from  paying  the 


'    Mr.  Kill-;  f.--,wi'i 


It.  p.  SI  ni 


420 


KOTE3. 


annual  tribute  ef  a  hundred  Chriatinii  virgins  to  their  infidel  enemies, 
they  represented  l.iiu  iu  u  professed  nnd  powerful  ciuunjiiou  of  dis- 
treiiaed  damsels.  This  apotheosis  of  chivalry  in  the  person  of  their 
own  apoatle,  must.  have,  ever  afterwards  contributed  to  exaggerate  the 
characteristic»!  romioilie  heroism  of  the  Spnniarda,  by  which  it  was 
occasioned :  and  lo  propagate,  through  succeeding  ages,  a  stronger 
veneration  for  that  hjii^ii-s  of  military  enthusiasm,  to  w:hich  they  were 
naturally  devoted.  It  (a  certain,  tlmt  in  consequence  of  these  illus- 
triouu  achievements  in  the  Moorish  wars,  Saint  James  waa  constituted 
patron  of  Spain  ;  and  became  the  founder  of  one  of  the  moat  magnifi- 
cent shrines,  nnd  of  Die  most  opulent  order  of  knighthood,  now 
exUtrng  in  Chrifitcnilom.  The  legem!  of  tliia  invincible  apostle  ia 
inserted  in  the  Mosarahic  I.itnr-ry." — Wahton. 

The  following  is  an  abstract  of  the  romance  of  Sir  Guy  above 
alluded  to  :— 

"  The  pioly  of  Sir  Quy  wns  neither  leas  capricious,  nor  leas  diaaa- 
tr.iua  in  its  eons.qiiriieos.  tl.uu  the  ii (lection  of  his  mistreaa.  He  had 
Is.vn  taught  tlmt  ntlirr  iliili'-a  «vie  more  sacred  anil  more  acceptable 
in  the  sight  of  heaven,  than  those  of  husband  and  father.  But  the 
historian  «hall  toll  hi»  own  story.  At  tho  end  of  forty  days  alter  the 
marriage,  tt  hnp]*ned  tlmt— ■ 


is  Sir  Guy  a 


,  from  play 


iookeil  »i 

„,iU  him 

far  and 

,1  bethm 

■  he  had  d 

iv  aiiiiii 

with  h 

nt  11».!  a- 

ii, .yM  n 

isny  a  1 

all  whs  1 

net  for  God's  taki 

i  above. 

*  Felice,  who  had  observed  his  reverie,  inquired  the  canse;  and 
karat,  with  honor  uiul  astonishment,  hia  determination  to  spend  tha 
remainder  of  his  life  in  n  state  "f  peimne.e  and  mortification.  He  oon- 
i. -ill.-.)  himself  wiili  ilirei'tiiiL.-  her,  whenever  their  child  shonlil  be  of 

E  roper  age,  if  it  should  prove  a  son,  to  intrust  his  education  to  Sir 
luraud ;  and  quitted  her  without  taking  leave  of  the  earl,  and  even 
without  coniiuunicating  to  his  old  companion  Heraud  the  singular 
resolution  he  had  formed.  Felice,  unable  to  detain  him,  places  on  his 
finger  a  gold  ring,  requesting  him  to  bestow  at  least  a  thought  on  her 
whenever  he  should  cast  his  i yes  on  tlmt  pledge  of  her  affection;  and 
her  husband,  after  promising  to  obey  her  instructions,  assume*  the 
dress  of  a  pultuer,  and  departs  for  the  Holy  Land. 

"Felice  communicates  to  Rohand  the  news  of  thia  unexpected 
misfortune ;  and  the  good  earl  is  persuaded,  with  great  appearance  of 
probability,  that  Sir  (Juy  can  mean  no  more  than  to  put  her  affection 
to  tho  teat,  by  a  conduct  as  capricious  as  her  own.  She  ut  first  is 
disposed  to  put  an  eud  to  her  life,  but  is  cheeked  by  the  thoughts  of 


her  child.    Sir   Heraud,  in  hopes  oi 


ting  his   friend  i 


»"Guy  songht  hallinns  '  in  many  cou 
Anti  sithe  to  Jerusalem  went  he; 
And  when  he  tu  Jerusalem  caine, 
To  Antiuch  his  wny  he  nam».1 

"  Sir  Guy,  Boldly  occupied  with  devotional  pm-suits,  had  travelled 
to  Constantinople,  and  from  thence  into  Almayne.  Here  he  chances 
to  meet  a  pilgrim  who  '  made  semblaut  sorry.'  Gay  enters  into  con- 
versation with  him,  and  finds  him  to  be  bis  old  friend  Sir  Thierry, 
Who  had  been  displeased  by  the  emperor  of  all  his  fiefs,  and  reduced 
to  the  greatest  distress,  in  consequence  of  a  false  accusation  preferred 
against  him  by  Barnard,  cousin  of  the  famous  Duke  Otho,  the  felon 
Duke  of  Pavia,  who  had  inherited  the  estates  and  the  vices  of  that 
treacherous  prince,  and,  unfortunately  for  the  imperial  vassals,  pos- 
sessed to  the  same  degree  the  confidence  of  his  master,  together  with 
the  dignity  of  steward  to  the  emperor.  Sir  Guy,  on  hearing  that  thi 
death  of  Otho,  whom  he  had  slain,  had  been  employed  to  the  ruin  a 
his  friend  Thierry,  falls  into  a  swoon ;  a  practice  to  which,  as  we  have 

rhe  was  much  addicted. 
"'Good  man,' quoth  Thierry,  'IbII  thou  ma 
How  long  this  evil  hath  holden  thee*' 
'Many  a  day,'  quoth  Sir  Gny,  'it  took  me  oret* 
'Good  love! 'quoth  Thierry," 'do  it  no  more!' 

"  Thierry  proceeds  to  lament  the  supposed  death  of  Sir  Gny,  who, 
though  full  of  compassion  for  bis  friend,  and  already  determined  to 
redress  his  injuries,  continues  to  conceal  his  name.  But  Thierry  was 
weak  and  faint  with  hunger ;  and  Sir  Guy  tells  him,  that  as'hehas 
a  penny  in  his  parse,'  it  would  be  expedient  to  hasten  to  the  nearest 
town,  and  employ  that  sum  in  the  purchase  of  provisions.  Thierry 
willingly  accompanies  him,  bat,  feeling  sleep;  as  well  as  faint,  i» 
advised  to  refresh  himself,  in  the  instance,  with  a  few  moments' 
repose;  and  the  famished  Thierry  falls  asleep  with  his  head  resting 
on  the  knees  of  Sir  Got.  During  his  slumber,  a 'white  weasel 
suddenly  jitrnpn  out  of  his  mouth;  takes  refuge  in  the  crevice  of  * 
neighbouring  rock,  and  after  a  short  space  of  time  returns,  aod  a^ain 
m  down  his  throat.  Bir  Thierry,  waking,  informs  Sir  Guy  thut  he 
—  n  a  '  fair  bright  sword  *  r-  ' 


had  dreamed  a  dream ;  1 1  ■  ■  t.  he  had  m 


treasure  of  inestimable  value,  and  tW,  tiMpfa»  01  his  arm,  he  had 
been  saved  by  him  from  a  dreadful  «.latnltv.  The  «opposed  palmer 
interprets  the  dream;  gnum  to  jfc*  IfO*  indicated  by  thu  weasel, 


finds" the  sword  and  tMMM]  which  hi  deliver»  to  Sir  Thierry,  with 
an  injunction  to  preservn  tlia  sword  with  the  greatest  possible  care, 
and  then  takes  his  leaf». 

"  Sir  Guy  n<iw  FMsabl  Ui  thu  •UIMNl'l  pnlfuw,  asks  charity,  and  is 
admitted  into  the  hall.     A*  bt*  Writ  buipeak»  him  a  traveller,  he  is 
'Took. 


,  ..  'e  of  bis  conduct  towards  the  innocent  Thierry ;  and,  throwing 
down  hia  glove,  offers  to  prove,  by  force  of  arms,  the  falsehood  of 
Barnard's  accusation.  The  steward,  though  not  a  little  surprised  by 
tin.'  nppeoruaoe  of  such  an  uncouth  adversary,  accepts  the  challenge; 
the  buttlo  is  iv.aril.il :  the  palmer  is  presented  with  n  suit  of  armour, 
»u>l  then  repairs  to  Thierry  f"r  the  sword  which  bad  been  miraculously 
discovered  by  the  white  weasel.  Sir  Harnard,  however,  was  so  stout, 
that  after  a  combat  which  lusted  dunm:  tlie  wliole  dny,  the  victory 
wo»  still  undecided:  but  he  hod  discovered  during  this  trial  of  tlis 
p  diner's  [itu'vw.  that  it  would  I»'  tunch  more  oouveuiont  to  get  rid  of 
bis  adversary  by  any  other  means  than  to  abide  by  the  issue  of  * 
-■.'■inl  I'Miilliet.  ,1  ii(lj.'iu.i:  therefore  tliul  the  palmer  would  sleep 
soundly  utter  his  fatigue,  bo  despatches  a  number  of  bis  emissaries, 
with  orders  to  take  him  up  in  bis  bed  in  the  rui'.lille  of  the  night,  and 
to  throw  him  into  the  sen.  Although  Sir  t>uy  ni  lodged  in  the 
palace,  beiuu-  under  tin:  immediate  protection  of  the  justice  of  the 
1'inpire.  this  bold  enterprise  w.is  successfully  emyuied;  and  Sir 
Guy,  when  he  awaked  in  Hie  morning,  was  not  a  little  astonished  to 
lind  liiin-vl!'  ili.ntiiiu-  in  his  Led,  at  s-oiiio  distance  I'mm  land.  But 
Providunee,  who  bad  intended  that  the  guilt  of  Sir  llarnord  should 
become  completely  manifest,  directed  a  fisherman  to  the  spot,  who 
conveyed  .Sir  Guy  in  safety  to  tha  palace,  and  related  this  miraculous 
incident  to  the  emperor.  The  monarch  having  determined  that  the 
punishment  of  I  lie  steward  -lion  Id  In.1  irillieinl  by  the  champion  whom 
Ibivon  iiad  thus  nmrki'd  nut  for  the  purpose,  the  buttle  recommences, 
and  Sir  Barnard,  already  half  vanquished  by  the  reproaches  of  his 
■>wu  conscience,  is  overpowered  and  slain.  The  victor  then  demand» 
tin-  reinstatement  of  Sir  Thierry,  and,  having  obtained  it,  goes  in 
search  of  his  friend,  whom  he  IiihIh  in  a  church,  devoutly  engaged  in 
prayer,  and  hastily  h-.ids  hini  to  the  emperor,  who  weeps  at  the  siyht 
nf  his  distress,  and  restores  him  to  all  his  possessions. 


"The 


1    l.alli-  Tin- 


Try, 


And  nil  thing»  that  ho  had  of  lie 

*  Thierry,    who   had    hitherto  felt   little  ( 

oea  of  the  pilgrim,  was  now  tilled  with  the  warmest  gratitude 

i.  mod.  I. in  di-liivOT I    his  ..-ml  il  inli..  w  is  ex. died   lo  enilnLsia-ci. 

when,  having  been  invited  to  aeeoni puny  him  during  a  part  of  his 
journey,  he  discovered,  in  this  deliverer.  Ids  old  friend  and  benefactor. 
He  adjured  Sir  Guy  to  share  the  prosperity  he  bad  bestowed;  but  the 
hero,  only  solicitous  to  become  an  humble  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
I'rovidenei.',  and  drieriiiined  t"  fnllil  Lis  di  stiny,  ndiatever  it  might  be, 
tore  himself  from  Ids  vudivacc-.  and,  pursuing  ids  journey,  I 
Viithout  meeting  av.\  new  ,i>.Uen\.wies,"\i\ Y-n^ni, 


NOTES.  423 

"  The  disconsolate  Felice,  during  the  long  interval  of  his  absence, 
had  passed  her  whole  time  in  acts  of  devotion  or  of  charity.  Her 
husband,  presenting  himself  at  her  gate  in  his  pilgrim's  weeds,  was 
invited  into  the  hall ;  was  plentifully  entertained ;  and  enjoyed  the 
pleasure  of  witnessing,  unknown  and  unsuspected,  her  daily  observance 
of  those  duties  to  which  he  had,  long  since  devoted  the  remainder  of 
his  life.  Unwilling  to  withdraw  her  from  these  salutary  pursuits,  he 
again  departed  unknown,  taking  with  him  a  single  page  as  an  atten- 
dant, and  retired  to  a  solitary  hermitage  in  the  forest  of  Ardenne, 
where  he  was  advertised  by  an  angel  of  his  approaching  dissolution. 
He  then  despatched  his  page  to  Felice  with  the  gold  ring  which  he 
had  received  from  her  at  parting,  and  adjured  her  to  come  and  give 
directions  for  his  burial.  She  arrived;  found  him  dying;  received 
his  last  breath ;  and,  having  survived  him  only  fifteen  days,  was  buried 
in  the  same  grave. 

"  2)ow  is  the  story  brought  to  an  end, 
Of  Guy,  the  bold  baron  of  price, 
And  of  the  fair  maid  Felice, 
Fair  ensamples  men  may  lere, 
Whoso  will  listen  and  hear. 
True  to  love,  late  and  early, 
As,  in  his  life,  did  good  Sir  Guy ; 
For  he  forsook  worldly  honour, 
To  serve  God  his  creatour ; 
Wherefore  Jesu,  that  was  of  a  maid  bora 
To  buy  man's  soul  that  was  forlorn, 
And  rose  from  death  the  third  day, 
And  led  man's  soul  from  hell  away, 
On  their  souls  have  mercy ! 
And  ye,  that  have  heard  this  story, 
God  give  yon  all  his  blessing, 
And  of  his  grace  to  your  ending , 
Ad/1  yfj1  and  bliss,  that  ever  shall  be ! 
Am**,  Amen,  tttr  charite!" 

"  The  Hirtory  <*  *"  f**j"  **>!*  Biahop  Percy  (Jfct pruts  of  Ane. 
Poetry,  vol.  iii,  p,  JOJ>f  **th/mjf)i  WfW  very  pwperly  resigned  to  children. 
was  once  adimre*]  by  all  re(»Ux*  *4  wit  and  taate :  for  taste  and  wit 
had  once  their  childhood,  A\l\um$i  of  Kngliab  growth,1  *t  was  early 
a  favourite  with  other  htiibm* ;  it  appeared  in  French  in  1525,  and  is 
alluded  to  in  the  *M  *p*ttt*h  tUmmttito  'V*mk*tz  el  blavcd,  which,  it 
i»  believer!,  wa*  writteti  wA  \tn%%  ntUtr  th*  y*s*t  1430. — See  advertise- 
ment to  the  F/CTi/;h  tr  ***)*»)/*>,  2  1**1*,  I2u*>. 

"The  OTi*ir#aJ,  whanf*  all  tb***  *V*rUm  are  extracted,  is  a  very 
ancient  romanoe  ir»  t,\*\  ViU%\\nh  *wm.  whfcb  i*  quoted  by  Chancer  as 
a  celebrated  pieoe  *>vf  n  m  b»*  l\u#,  n%, ',  - 

Vrr/m  *V  *rttretfi*t*trf+  >-f  fM  m*\\li*  *A  th*  Hnry  trtnt  in  the  Oesta  Boman- 
orum  f'rii*  ;*  vf-ry  4:-rfn*-iM*  :  **r4  '**  t*  **>"•»*>  U>  b*v*  +%\*v»i  ir»  r'Tueb  m  **rly  ss 
it.*-  "'.v; niton  of  ;frt  h*rft  t+M*ty     t  «**vui4  h*  totUj*4  to  j^w,  a*  Gtsfo\)ut^<fe- 


"lien  epefcpn  of  romances  of  price, 
Of  Horne  child»  and  Ippotes, 

Of  Bevis  and  Sia  Guv,  etc.  It.  of  ThOp. 

And  was  uEiinllv  snug  to  the  harp  at  Christmas  dinners  and  bridiaka, 
as  we  learn  from  Puttenbaro's  Art  of  Poetry,  Ito.  15H9." 

But  the  Gttta  Bomannrum  is  most  probably  the  origin  of  the  tales 
in  question,  since  the  date  is  un  quest  ion  ably  earlier  tlian  thoie  fixed 
upon  by  Bishop  Percy. 


«x  book* 


From  a  work  of  this  kind,  pmhnbly  the  same,  the  fallowing  fable 
hasbeen  extracted,  derived,  uo  doubt,  iron]  the  Gesta  Ilo-manorum  : — 

"None  ought  to  render  evil  fur  good;  and  they  that  help  ought 
not  to  be  hurt,  as  this  fable  slieweth,  of  a  dragon  which  was  within  a 
river;  and  as  the  river  mis  di  mini -lied  nf  water,  the  dragon  abode  at 
the  river,  whidi  was  all  dry ;  and  thus  t"..r  lai.k  nf  water  ho  dould  not 
stir  him.  A  labourer,  or  villain,  came  that  way,  and  demanded  of  the 
dragon,  savin".  What  doest  thou  Lere  '>  And  the  dragon  said,  Here  I 
Bm  without  water,  without  the  whieh  1  cannot  move  ;  but  if  thou  wilt 
bind  me,  and  set  me  upon  thy  ie-~e,  and  k-ad  me  into  a  river,  I  shall 
give  thee  abundance  of  gold  and  silver;  and  the  villain,  fur  co  ve  ton  sn  esse 
bound  him,  and  led  him  into  a  river :  and  when  he  had  unbound  him, 
he  demanded  of  him  his  salary  or  payment.  The  dragon  said  to  him, 
because  thou  hast  unbound  me,  thou  wilt  be  paid;  and  because  that 
I  am  now  hungry,  I  will  eat  thee.  And  the  villain  onswered  and  said, 
for  my  labour  wilt  thou  eat  and  devour  me?  And  as  they  strived 
together,  the  foi  being  within  the  fort'sl,  and  In  arini:  their  questioning, 
came  to  them,  and  said  in  this  manner:  Strive  ye  no  more  together, 
for  I  will  accord,  and  make  pence  betwixt  you ;  let  each  of  yon  tell  me 
his  reason,  for  to  wit  whieh  of  you  have  right.  And  when  each  of 
them  had  told  hia  tale,  the  fox  said  to  the  villain,  shew  to  me  how 
thou  unbounded!  tliedine/ori.  that  I  may  she  thereof  a  lawful  sentence. 
And  the  villain  pill  ihe  dragon  upon  his  ass,  nend  bound  him  as  he  did 
before.  Then  the  fox  demanded  of  the  dragon,  held  he  thee  to  fast 
bound  as  thou  art  now?  And  the  dragon  aaawi  red,  yea,  my  lord,  an  d 
yet  more  hard.  And  the  fox  said  to  the  vilAin,  bind  hor  yet  harder; 
tor  he  that  well  himietb.  welt  can  unbind,  mud  when  tho  dragon  waa 
fast  bound,  the  fox  said  to  the  villain,  bear  him  again  where  thou  didat 
first  bind  him,  and  there  \ea.ve  bisa  bound  as  ho  is  now,  and  so  he  shaJl 
out  eat  and  devour  Ihte."— ^o^' t  FaUt5,\*vini.\(1vS.,^.yA. 


Sir  John  Mande- 


Note  87,    Pago  337. 

This  allegorical  race  of  beings  is  thus  described  ii 
vile's  tare  work : — 

"From  this  ii-k-  nvn  i-u  !■■  aueilur  that  is  called  Macumeran,  which 
is  a  great  isle  and  n  fair:  and  the;  men  and  women  of  this  country 
have  heads  like  hounds;  they  are  reasonable,  and  worship  an  ox  for 
tlieir  God.  They  are  good  men  to  lipiht.  and  they  btMr  a  great  target, 
with  which  tiiey  covi  r  al]  tlieir  ixnly,  and  :i  spuur  in  their  hand.  And 
if  they  take  any  man  in  battle  they  send  him  to  their  king,  which  is  a 
great  lord,  ami  devuiit.  in  iii-  faith  :  for  he  hath  about  his  neck,  on  a 
chain,  three  hundred  srrout  |  tear  Is.  and  as  the  juijiists  say  their  Paler 
Nailer,  and  other  prayers,  so  their  king  saitb  every  day  three  hundred 
prayers  to  his  God,  before  he  either  eat  or  drink;  and  he  beareth  alno 
about  Ms  neck  a  ruby  orient,  fine,  and  good,  that  is  near  a  foot  and 
five  fingers  long.  For  when  they  clmse  their  king,  they  give  to  him 
that  ruby  to  bear  in  his  hand,  and  then  they  lead  him  riding  about 
the  city,  and  tiien  ever  after  they  are  subject  to  him,  and  therefore  he 
beareth  that  ruby  alway  about  his  neck  ;'  for  if  he  bear  not  the  ruby, 
they  would  no  longer  noH  Mm  for  tbi  ii  Ubk.  The  great  Caaue  of 
Cathay,  hath  ranch  coveted  this  ruby;  but  lie  might  never  have  it 
neither  by  war  nor  by  other  means.  And  this  king  is  a  full,  true,  and 
vertuous  man,  for  men  may  go  safely  and  surely  through  his  land,  and 
bear  all  that  tiny  will,  fur  there  is  no  man  bo  hardy  to  let  them." 
—  Foynfles  and  Travels,  p.  95. 

In  the  Turkish  Tales  we  hare  also  some  notice  of  this  "  virtuous " 
people  ;— 

"The  Samsarrts  were  monstrous  anthropophagi,  or  men -eaters,  who 
bad  the  body  of  a  man  and  the  head  "f  a  dui;." — Vol.  ii.  p.  349. 

And  Pliny  (whom  the  Geat  writer  quotes),  B.  vii.  c.  2,  «peaks  of  a 
country  of  India.  "  where  there  is  a  kind  of  men  with  heads  like  does, 
clad  nil  ovef  with  the  alt  inn  of  wild  beast»,  who  in  lieu  of  speech  used 


ALPHABETICAL  LIST 

OF 

BOHN'S    LIBRARIES. 

March,  1894. 


'  I  may  say  in  -eg.ird  to  nil  manner  of  book»,  Bonn'*  rubllcntton  Series  ii  Ihe 
uvfullest  tiling  1  know.' — Thomas  Carlvle. 

1  The  respectable  and  sometimes  excellent  translations  of  Bonn's  Library  hone 
done  for  literature  what  railroads  have  done  for  internal  intercourse. '—Emerson. 

'Ad  important  body  of  cheap  literature,  for  which  every  living  worker  in  this 
Lonniry  who  l! r ^ i v.- .-.  aiiL-nyili  li-.'in  the  p:i,t  has  reason  to  be  grateful.' 

Professor  HENRY  MOblBT. 

BOHN'S    LIBRARIES. 

HISTORICAL   LIBRARY       . 

23  Volumes. 

PHILOSOPHICAL  LIBRARY 

17  Volumes. 

ECCLESIASTICAL  LIBRARY 

15  Volumes. 

ANTIQUARIAN  LIBRARY    . 

36  Volumes. 

ILLUSTRATED   LIBRARY   . 

75  Volumes. 

SPORTS  AND   GAMES . 

16  Volumes. 

CLASSICAL  LIBRARY  . 

108  Volumes. 

COLLEGIATE   SERIES. 

10  Volumes. 

SCIENTIFIC   LIBRARY. 

46  Volumes. 

ECONOMICS   AND   FINANCE 

5  Volumes. 

REFERENCE  LIBRARY 

30  Volumes. 

NOVELISTS'   LIBRARY 

13  Volumes. 

ARTISTS'   LIBRARY      . 

10  Volumes, 

56  Volumes. 

SELECT  LIBRARY  OF  STANDARD  WORKS    31  Volumes. 

'Messrs.    Bell   are  determined  to  do  more  than  maintain  the  reputation  of 
"Bohn's  Libraries."'— Guardian. 

'  The  imprint  of  Bohn's  Standard  Library  is  a  guaranty  of  good  editing.' 

1  This  now  and  attractive  form  in  which    the   volumes   of   Bohn's  Standard 

Library  arc  being  issued  is  not  meant  to  hide  either  indifference  in  the  selection  Df 

books  included  in  this  well-known  series,  or  carelessness  in  the  editing.' 

SL  /amts'i  Gaultt. 

'Messrs.  Bell  &  Sons  are  making  constant  additions  of  an  eminent])'  acctpiahk 
c/tiracter  to  "Bohn's  Librai'ves." ' — j4thaut*m. 

_™ 

BOHN'S    LIBRARIES. 

747  Vols.,  Small  Post  8vo.  cloth.    Price  £160. 

Compute  Detailed  Catalogue  will  be  sent  on  application. 

AddlBon'a  Works.    6  vols.    y.6d.  each. 

Brut1»  Manual  of  the  History  of  Philo- 

Aesohylua,      Verse   Trans,   by    Anna 

sophy.     51. 

Swanwick.    $s. 

Beaumont  &  Fletcher.    Leigh  Hunt's 

Prose  Trans,  by  T.  A.  Buckley. 

31.  6d. 

BechstOln'S  Cage  and  Chamber  Birds. 

Agassi!  &  Gould's  Comparative  Phy- 

5-f- 

siology,     si. 

Ecckmann'B     History    of    Inventions. 

AMerfB  Tragedies.   Trans,  by  Bowring, 

3  vols.     3>.  6d.  each. 

Bade 'a  Ecclesiastical  History  and  the 

Alford'B  Queen's  English,     is.  &  it.  &.!. 

A.  S.  Chronicle.    51. 

Allen's   Banks   of   the    British   Navy. 

Bell  (Sir  C.)  On  the  Hand.     %t. 

Anatomy  of  Expression,     jr. 

Ammlanus   Warcelllriafl,      Trans,   by 

Bentley'a  Phalaris.    jr. 

C.  D.  Yonge.     7s.  6rf. 

BJornson'B  Ame  and  the  Fisher  Lassie. 

Andanen'B  Danish  Tales.     Trans,  by 

Caroline  Peachey.     jr. 

Blair's    Chronological    Tables.       ior. 

Antoninus  (Marcus  Aurelius),     Trans. 

Index  of  Dates,     a  vols.     51.  each. 

by  George  Long.     31.  Sd. 

Bleak's  Introduction  to  the  Old  Testa- 

Apollonian  RhodtuB.  Tile  Argonaut  ica. 

Trans,  by  E.  P.  Coleridge.     51. 

BoethlUB'   Consolation   of  Philosophy, 

ApuleluB,  The  Works  of.     51. 

*c.     51. 

Arlosto's  Orlando  Furioso.     Trans,  by 

Bohn'8  Dictionary  of  Poetical   Quota- 

W.  S.  Rose,     3  vols.     51.  each. 

Aristophanes.  Trans,  by  W.J.  Hickie. 

Bond'B    Handy -book   for    Verifying 

«  vols.     5r.  each. 

Dates,  ftc.     51. 

Aristotle's  Works.    5  vols,  51.  each  ; 

Bonomi'B  Nineveh.    $1. 

Boawell'B  Life  of  Johnson.     (Napier). 

ArrlajL.    Trans,  by  E.  J.  Chinnock.   5/, 

6  vols.     31.  6J,  each. 

Aseham's   Scholemaster.      (J.   E.   B. 

(Croker.)    s  vols.    3CU' 

Brand's  Popular  Antiquities.    3  vols. 

Bacon's  Essays  and  Historical  Works, 

3>.   6d. ;    Essays,    ij.    and   11.    &/. ; 

Bremer's    Works.      Trans,    by    Mary 

of  Learning,  51. 
Ballads  and  Songs  of  the  Peasantry. 

Brldgewater  Treatises.  9  vols.  Various 

By  Kobert  Bell.     3/.  6<£ 

B:lnk  (B.  T.-n).     Early  Kmrlish  Lit™*. 

Bass's  Lexicon  to  [be  Greek  Test.     aj. 

ALMABETICAL   LIST  OF 


Browne's  (Sir  Thomas)  Works.    3  vols, 
ictionary    of    Scientific 


Buckland's  Geology  and  Mineralogy. 

Burke's  Works  and  Speeches.     S  vols, 
or     M.    each.      The    Sublime    and 
.  Reflections  on 

Life,  by  Sir  James  Prior.     3».  6rf. 

Buruoy's    Evelina.       31.    6A       Cecilia 

2  vols.     31.  td.  each. 
Bums'  Life  by  Lockhort.     Revised  by 

W.  Scott  Douglas.     31.  6d. 
Butler's    Analogy    of    Religion,    and 


Seroii 


r.  6£ 


Butler's   Hudibras. 


(The)    of   Maddaloni.      By 


Carpenter's  Mechanical  Philosophy  jr. 

Vegetable    Physiology,     61.     Animal 

Physiology.     61. 
Carrel's     Counter     Revolution    under 

Charles  IL  and  James  II.     31.  &£ 
Cattermols'a     Evenings    at     Haddon 

HalL      51. 
Catullus    and    Tibullus.      Trans,    by 

W.   K.  Kelly.      51. 
Cellini's  Memoirs.      (Roscoe.)    31.  6d. 
Cervantea'  Exemplary  Novels.    Trans. 

by  W.  K.  Kelly.     3J.  6d. 
— —  Don  Quixote.     Motteux's  Trans. 

Galatea.     Trans,   by  G.   W.   J. 

Gyll.    31.  W. 
Chalmers  On  Man.     51. 
Channlne'a  The  Perfect  Life.     is.  and 


Chess    Congress 

Lowenthal.      51. 

Cuevrenl  on  Coloui 

Chllllngworth's  Tl 


Friendship  and  Old  Age.    u  and 

i>.  6tf. 
Clark's  Heraldry.     (Plancbe.)    51.  and 

Classic  Tales,     jr.  6d. 

Coleridge's    Prose    Works,       (Ashe.) 

6  vols.     31.  6j£  each. 
Comte'a  Philosophy  of  the    Sciences. 

(G.  H.  Lewes.)     51. 
Coode's  History  of  the  Arabs  in  Spain. 

3  vols.     3J.  6d.  each. 
Coopar'S     Biographical    Dictionary. 

3  vols.     5J.  each. 
Cowpor's  Works.     (Soulhey.)     8  vols. 

31.  6d,  each. 
Coxo'a  Houseof  Austria.  4  vols.  $i.6d. 

each.       Memoirs    of    Marlborough. 

3    vols.       31.    6d.    each.      Atlas   to 

Marlborough's  Campaigns.     101.  6d. 
Crali'B  Pursuit  of  Knowledge.     51. 
Craven's  Young  Sportsman's  Manual, 


CrulkshanS'i 


Punch   and  Judy.      51. 
B  Lives  of  British  Painters. 


31.  6rf.     In  (en 
n.  6rf.     Purgatorio.    '11.  and  11.  6d. 
Paradiso.     11.  and  11.  6rf. 
Trans,  by  I.  C.  Wright      (Flai- 


*>     . 


Inferno.    Italian  Text  and  Trans. 

by  Dr.  Carlyle.     5*. 

Purgatorio.       Italian    Text    and 

Trans,  by  W.  S.  Dugdale,     51. 

De  CommlneB'  Memoirs.  Trans,  by 
A.  R.  Scoble.     a  vols.    31.  6d.  each. 

Detoe'a  Novels  and  Misccl.  Works. 
6  vols.  31.  6J.  each.  Robinson 
Crusoe  (Vol.  VII).  31.  6d.  or  $j. 
rI"he  Plague  in  London,  ir.  and 
ii.  6d. 

Delolme  on  the  Constitution  of  Eng- 
land,    y.  6d. 

Diiimuins'  Arms  and  Armour.  Trans, 
by  C.  C.  Black.     71.  64 

lie ruosth ones'  Orations.  Trans  by 
C.  K,\nn  Kennedy.     4  vols.  51. ,  and 


BOHN'S  LIBRARIES. 


Demosthenes'  Orations  On  the  Crown. 

U.  and  u.  bd. 
De  Stael's  Corinne.     Trans,  by  Emily 

Baldwin  and  1'aulina  Driver.     3J.  6d. 
Devey"s  Logic,    sj. 
Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Latin  Quota- 


of     Noted     Names     of    F 

(Wheeler.)    51. 

of  Obsolete  and   Provincial   Eng- 
lish.     (Wright.)     a  vols.     5..  each. 

Didron'a  Christian  Iconography. 


Dobree'B  Adversaria.  (Wagner),  a  vols. 

Dodtt's  Epigrammatists.     6s. 
Donaldson's  Theatre  of  the  Greeks,  jr. 
Draper's    History  of   the   Intellectual 
Development  of  Europe,    a  vols.    51. 

Dunlop'B  History  of  Fiction.      3  vols. 

Dyer'B  History  of  Pompeii.     71.  6d. 

The  City  of  Rome,     51. 

Dyet'B  British  Popular  Customs.     Jr- 

Early  Travels  in  Palestine.  (Wright.) 
5J- 

Eaton's  Waterloo  Days.    11.  and  u.  6rf. 

fiber's  Egyptian  Princess.  Trans,  by 
E.  S.  Buchheim.    31.  6d. 

Edge  worth's  Stories  for  Children. 
31.  6d. 

Ellifl'  Specimens  of  Early  English  Me- 
trical Romances.     (HalliwelL)     51. 

Else's  Life  of  Shakespeare.  Trans,  by 
L.  Dora  Schmits.     51. 

Emerson's  Works.  3  vols.  31.  6d.  each, 
or  5  vols.  u.  each. 

Ennemoser'i  History  of  Magic   avols. 

Eplctetns.  Trans,  by  George  Long.  51. 
Euripides.    Trans,  by  E.  P.  Coleridge. 

Eosebius'  Eccl.    History.      Trans,  by 

C.  F.  Cruse.     &■ 
Evtlvn'a   Diary  and    Correspondence 

(Bray.)     4  vol*,     y.  each. 


Pair  holt's     Costume    in    England. 

Fielding's  Joseph  Andrews.       31.  6i 

Tom  Jones,      a  vols.     31.  6d.  each. 

Amelia,     jr. 
Flaxman's  Lectures  on  Sculpture.    6j. 
Florence     of    Worcester's    Chronicle. 

Trans,  by  T.  Forester,     51. 
Foster's  Works.    10  vols.   gj.  64  each. 
Franklin's  Autobiography,     u. 
Gesta  Ronrnnorum.    Trans,  by  Swan 

&  Hooper.     51. 
Gibbon's  Decline    and   FalL      7  vols. 

Gtlbart's  Banking,     3  vols.     51.  each. 

Oil  BIAS.     Trans,  by  Smollett.     61. 

GlraldUS  Cambrensis.     5;. 

Goethe's  Works  and  Correspondence, 
including  Autobiography  and  Annals, 
Faust,  Elective  affinities,  Werther, 
Wilhelm  Meister,  Poems  and  Ballads, 
Dramas,  Rcinecke  Fox,  Tour  in  Italy 
and  Miscellaneous  Travels,  Early  and 
Miscellaneous  Letters,  Correspon- 
dence with   Eckermann  and   Soret, 


is  translators. 


i  vols.    3J.  6. 


Faust.       Text    with    Hayward's 

Translation.     (Buchheim.)    51, 

Faust.     Part  I.     Trans,  by  Anna 

Swanwick.     11.  and  n.  ti.J. 

Boyhood.  (Part  I.  of  the  Auto- 
biography.)   Trans,  by  J.  Oxenford. 

Rein 

Rogers. 

Goldsmith's  Works.  (Gibbs.)  5  vols. 
3>.  6d.  each. 

Plays,     ij.  and  is.  6d.     Vicar  ol 

Wakefield.     11.  and  i).  6d. 

Grammont's  Memoirs   and   Boscobel 

Gray's  Letters.    (D.  C  Tovey.) 

[/*  ihefrns. 
OreeS  Anthology.  Trans,  by  E.  Purges. 

Greek  Romances.  (Theagenes  and 
Charklea.  Dnphnis  and  Chloe.  Cli- 
tophoandLeucippe.)  Trans,  by  Rev. 
R.  Smith.     51, 

G.reek'T'-s.uwMT.v.    <*. 


ALPHABETICAL   LIST  OF 


Greene,   Marlowe,    and    Ben   Jonson'i 

Poems.     (Robert  Belt)     3/.  64 
Gregory'»   Evidences  of  the  Christian 

Religion.  31.  64 
Grlmm'B  Gammer  Grethel.      Trans,  by 

E.  Taylor.     31.  64 
German  Tales.     Trans,   by  Mrs. 

Hunt,     a  vols.     31.  64  each. 
Grossl's  Marco  Visconli.     31.  64 
Gulaot'H     Origin      of     Representative 

Government  in  Europe.     Trans,  by 

A.  R.  Scoble.     31.  64 

Ens . 

,      '.  HaililL 
-  History  of  Civilisation.    Trans,  b 

W.  Hazlitt.     3  vols.     31.  (id.  each. 

Hall  (Robert).     Miscellaneous  Works. 

31.  64 
Handbooks  of  Athletic  Sports.     8  vols. 

31.  6d.  each. 
Handbook  of  Card  and  Table  Games. 

of  Proverbs.    Ry  H.  G.  Bobn.   Jr. 

of  Foreign  Proverbs.     51. 

Harflwlclr'B  History  of  the  Thirty-nine 


Banff's  Tales.  Trans,  by  S.  Mendel. 
31.  64 

The  Caravan  and  Sheik  of  Alex- 
andria.    11.  and  11.  64 

Bawl  home's  Novels  and  Tales.   3  vols. 

Haslitt's  Lectures  and  Essays.    7  vols. 

3..  64  each. 
Heaton's  History  of  Painting.    (Cosmo 

Moukhouse.)    51. 
Hegel's  Philosophy  of  History.    Trans. 

by  J.  Sibree.     51. 
Heine's  Poems.    Trans,  by  E.  A.  Bow- 
ring.     31.  Qd. 
Travel  Pictures.  Trans,  by  Francis 

Storr.     31.  64 
Helps  (Sir  Arthur).       Life  of  Thomas 

Brassey.     it.  and  u.  6d. 
Henderson's  Historical  Documents  01 

the  Middle  Ages.     51. 
Henfrej'B  English  Coins.    (Keary.)  6j. 
Henry  (Matthew)  On  the  Psalms.     51. 
flenryof Huntingdon'sHislar(.  Iran». 
by  T.  Forester.    51. 


Wheeler's  Analysis  and  Summary 

of.     51.     Turner's  Notes  on.     51. 
Heslod,    Callimachus    and    Theognis. 

Trans,  by  Rev.  J.  Banks.     31. 
Hoffmann's    Tales.        The     Serapion 

Brethren.     Trans,  by  Lieut. -Colonel 

Ewing.     a  vols.     3/,  64 
Hogg's      Experimental     and     Natural 

Philosophy.     51. 
Holbein's  Dance  of  Death  and  Bible 

Cuts.    51. 
Homer.    Trans,  by  T.  A.  Buckley,     a 

vols.    $t.  each. 

Pope's  Translation.     With  Fiai- 

EOan's  Illustrations,    a  vols.   51.  each. 

Cowper's    Translation.       a  vols. 

3*  64.  each. 

Hooper*»  Waterloo.     31.  64 

Horace,    Smart's  Translation,  revised, 

hy  Buckley.     31.  64 
Hugo's  Dramatic  Works.     Trans,  by 

Mrs.  Crosland  and  F.  L,  Slous.  31.  6d. 
- — -  Heraani.     Trans,  by  Ua   Cros- 

Poems.   Trans,  by  various  writers. 

CollectedbyJ.H.L  Williams.   jr.  64 

Humboldt's  Cosmos.     Trans,  by  Qui, 
Paul,  and  Dallas.    4  vols.  31.  ot/.each, 

— —  Personal  Narrative  of  his  Travels. 

Trans,  by  T.  Ross.    3  vols.    51.  each. 
Views  of  Nature,    Trans,  by  Otlft 

and  Bohn.    51. 
Humphreys'  Coin  Collector's  Manual. 


History  of.     31.  64 
Hunt's  Poetry  of  Science,     y. 
Hutchinson's  Memoirs.     31.  64 
India  before  the  Sepoy  Mutiny.     St 
Ingulph's  Chronicles.    51. 
Irving    (Washington).      Complete 
Works.      15  vols.     31.  6d.  each  ;  or 
in  18  vols.  ii.  each,  and  a  vols.  u.  64 

Life  and   Letters,      By  Pierre  E. 

Irving,     a  vols,     31.  64  each. 
iBOcratas.     Trans,    hy   J.    H.   Freest 

Jajnes'  Life  of  Richard  Cceur  de  Lioa. 
31.  6d.jL 


BONN'S  LIBRARIES, 


Jameson  (Mis.)  Shakespeare's  Hero- 
ines.    3j.  64 

Jesse  (E.)     Anecdotes  of  Dogs.     5/. 

Jesse  (J.  H.)  Memoirs  ofihe  Court  of 
England  under  the  Stuarts,     3  vols. 


.    [Naj 


Johnson's  Lives  of  th 

3  vols.    31.  64  eac 
Josephns.     Whiston's  Translation,  re 

vised  by  Rev.  A.  R.  Shilleto.    5  vols. 

3'.  64  each. 
Joyce's  Scientific  Dialogues.    51. 
Jukes -Browne's  Handbook  of  Physical 

Geology.    71.61/.     Handbook  of  His 

torical  Geology.     6s.     The  Building 

of  the  British  Isles.     js.  64 
Julian  the  Emperor.     Ttans.  by  Rev. 

C.  W.  King,     5* 

s  Edition, 


Justin,  Com 


Li.  \i']!Os.  :=. ml  Plutrijj!ii[!j. 

irans.  DyKev.  J.  S.  Watson.  51. 
Juvenal,    Persius,    Sulpicia,   and    Lu- 

ciliua.  Trans,  by  L.  Evans,  sr. 
Kant'B  Critique  of  Pure  Reason.  Trans. 

by  J.  M.  D.  Meiklejohn.     51 

Prolegomena,  &c     Trans,  by  E. 

Belfort  Bax.     51. 

Kelghtley's     Fairy     Mythology.       51. 

Classical  Mythology.    Revised  by  Dr. 

LSchmitz.     sr. 
Eldd  On  Man.     31.  64 
Klrby  On  Animals.     2  vols.     y.  each. 
Knight's  Knowledge  is  Power.     51. 
La.  Fontaine's  Fahles.      Trans,  by  E. 

Wright.     31.66 
Lamartine's  History  of  the  Girondists. 

Trans,  by  H.  T,  Ryde.  3  vols.  31,  6d. 

Restoration  of  the  Momirchv    in 

France.      Trans,    by    Capt.    Rafter. 
4  vols.     31.  6d.  each. 

French  Revolution  of  1848.  31.6W. 

Lamb's    Essays    of  Elia  and  Eliona. 

31.  64,  or  in  3  vols.  U.  each. 
Mcmorialsand  Letters.  Talfourd's 

Edition,  revised  by  W.  C.  Hazlitt. 

a  vols.     31.  64  each. 
Specimens  of  the  English  Dramatic 

Pcetso/theTimeofEIuabeth.  31.61*. 


Lanzi's  History  or  Painting  in  Italy, 
Trans,  by  T.  Roscoe.    3  vols.    31.  64 

LappenbergJs  England  under  the 
Anglo-Saxon  Kings.  Trans,  by  B. 
Thorpe,     a  vols.     31.  6d.  each. 

Lectures  on  Painting.  By  Bany,  Opie 
and  Fusel i.     51, 

Leonardo  da  Vinci's  Treatise  on  Paint- 
ing.    Trans,  by  J.  F.  Rtgaud.     51. 

IspfitiB'LettcrsfromEgypt.fic.  Trans, 
by  L.  and  J.  B.  Homer.     5s. 

Leasee's  Dramatic  Works.  Trans,  by 
Ernest  Bell,  s  vols.  3!.  64  each. 
Nathan  the  Wise  and  Minna  von 
Bumhdm.  11,  and  11.  64  Laokoon, 
Dramatic  Notes,  &c.  Trans,  by  E.  C. 
Beasley  and  Helen  Zimmern.  jr.  64 
Laokoon  separate,     rj.  or  is.  64 

Lilly's  Introduction  to  Astrology. 
(Zadkiel.)     is. 

Llvy.    Trans,  by  Dr.  Spillan  and  others. 

Locke's  Philosophical  Works.  (J.  A. 
St.  fohn).     a  vols.     31.  64.  each. 

Lite.     By  Lord  King.     31.  64 

Lodge'B  Portraits.     8  vols.    51.  each. 
Longfellow's  Poetical  and  Prose  Works. 


vols.     5*.  each 
Lncan's  Pharsalia.      Trans,  by  H.  T. 

Riley,     si. 
Luclan's    Dialogues.      Trans,   by   H. 
—     St 

Trans,    by    Rev.    ].    S. 


Lucretius. 
Watson. 
Lut&ertl  Table  Talk.     Trans,  by  W. 


Hai 


1.  64 


Autobiography.        (Michelet). 

Trans,  by  W.  Hazlitt.     31.  64 
MachlavBlli'B  History  of  Florence,  fie. 


ffantell's  Geological  Excursions 
through  the  Isle  of  Wight,  fie.  51. 
Pet:  if ac  dons  and  their  Teachings. 
61.     Wonders  of  Geology.     3  Vols, 


mweiS.'o-)'^. ■■«■*.*«- 


ALPHABETICAL   LIST  OP 


Martial»  Epigrams.    Trans,    7).  6rf. 
Martlaeau'a    History  of  England. 
1800-15.      3..  firf. 

History  ot   the    Peace,    1816-46. 

4  vol*.    31.  6d.  each. 

Minnow  Parts.    Trans,  by  Dr.  Giles. 

Matthew  of  Westminster.  Trans,  by 
C.  U.  Yonge.     a  vols.     51.  each. 

Maxwell's  Victories  ol  Wellington.    51. 

Henz«l'a  History  ot  Germany.  Trans, 
by  Mrs.  Horrocks.    3  vols.    31.6d.ta. 

Michael  Angelo  and  Raffaelle.  By 
Duppa  and  Q.  de  Quincy.     51. 

Mlolielet'a  French  Revolution.  Trans 
by  C  Cocks.     31.  bd. 

Mlgnet'I  French  Revolution.     31.  6£ 

Miller's  Philosophy  of  Hislory,  4  vols. 
3s.  6d.  each. 

Milton'B  Poetical  Works.  (].  Mont- 
gomery.)   a  vols.     31.  dd.  each. 

Prose  Works.     (J.  A.  St.  John.) 

5  vols.     3,.  6d.  each. 

Mitford'B  Our  Village,     a  vols.    31.  6d. 

Mollere'a  Dramatic  Works.  Trans,  by 
C.  H.  WalL     3  vols.     31.  6d.  each. 

The  Miser,  Tartuffe,  The  Shop- 
keeper turned  Gentleman.  ii.&u.6rf. 

Montagu's  (Lady  M.  W.)  Letters 
and  Works.  (Wharndiffe  and  Moy 
Thomas.)    a  vols.    51.  each. 

Montaigne"s  Essays.  Cotton's  Trans. 
revis=d  by  W.  C.  Hatlilt.  3  vols. 
3J.  6d.  each. 

Montesquieu's  Spirit  of  Laws.  Nu- 
genl's  Trans,  revised  by  J.  V. 
1'richard.    a  vols.    31.  6d.  each. 

Morphy'a  Games  of  Chess.  (Lowen- 
thaL)    sJ. 

Mndle's  British  Birds.   (Martin.)  a  vols. 

Naval  and  Military  Heroes  of  Great 

Meander's  History  of  the  Christian  Re- 
ligion and  Church.  10  vols.  Life  of 
Christ  1  vol.  Planting  and  Train- 
ing of  the  Church  by  the  Apostles, 
a  vols.  History  of  Christian  Dogma, 
a  vols.  Memorials  of  Cluistijji  Life 
in  the  Early  and  Middle  Ages. 
16  vols.      3».  64.  each. 

Flcollnl'a  History  of  [he  Jesuits.     5», 


North's  Lives  of  the  Norths.   (Jessopp.) 

Nugent's  Memorials  o(  Hampden.  S* 
Ockley'BHistoryoftheSaracens.  31,  6d 
Ordericna    VltallB.        Trans,     by    T 

Forester.     4  vols.     5*.  each. 
Ovid.    Trans,  by  H.  T.  Riley.    3  vols. 


P t-llo- JudEBUB.   Trans,  by  C.  D.  Yonge. 

4  vols.    5>.  each. 
Pickertna/B  Races  of  Man.    5J. 
Pindar.    Trans,  by  D.  W.  Turner,    si 
PlanCue'B  History  of  British  Costume. 


-  Apology,    Crito.    Pharfo,    ProU 
nalysis  and  Index  to  It» 


Trinummus,    MenaKhmi.   Aulu 

lnria,  Captivi.     11.  and  11.  bd. 

Pllny'B  Natural  History,  Trans,  by 
Dr.  Bostock  and  H.  T.  Riley.    6  vols. 

Pliny  the  Younger.  Letters  of.     Mil 
■■  '   trans,  revised  by  Rev.  F.  C  T. 


BOBflTS  LIBRARIES. 


Political  Cyclopn-dia.  4  vols.  3j.6rf.ea. 
Polyglot  of  Foreign  Proverbs.     31. 
Pope's  Poelical  Works.     (Cstmiihers. ) 

Homer.    (J.  S.  Watson.)   a  vols. 

51.  each. 


PropertHm.    Trans,  by  Rev.  P.  J.  F. 

Gantillon.    31.  fjrf. 
Front  (Father.)    Rcliques.     51. 
Quint  Ulall '8  Institutes  of  Oratory. 

Trans,  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,   a  vols. 


Ronnie's  Insect  Architecture.  (J.  G. 
Wood.}    sr. 

Reynold's  Discourses  and  Essays. 
(Beechy.)    a  vols.     31.  6rf.  each. 

RIcardo'a  Political  Economy.  (Con- 
ner.)   st. 

Rlcnter'g  Levana.     jr.  6rf. 

Flower  Fruit  and  Thorn   Piece; 

Trans,  by  Lieut. -CoL  Ewing.  31.  6. 

Roger  de  Hovenden'fl  Annals.  Tran: 
by  Dr.  Giles,     a  vols.     51.  each. 

Roger  of  Wendover.  Trans,  by  Di 
Giles,     a  vols.     5*.  each. 


Bogat'B  Animal  and  Vegetable 

siology.  a  vols.  6».  each. 
Rome  in  the  Nineteenth  Century.    (C.A. 

Eaton.)  a  vols.  51.  each. 
RoEcoe'»  Leo  X.    a  vols.    31.  6rf.  each. 

!  .!::■  :     ■■    :■■   '■■',     ...      ;;-.i  .,'. 
RUHHla,  History  of.     By  W.  K.  Kelly. 


Bchillert  Works.  Including  History  of 
the  Thirty  Years'  War,  Revolt  of  the 
Netherlands,  Wallenstein,  William 
T«U,  Don  Carlos,  Mary  Sloan.  Maid 


(.fOih;ms,  Rri.lc  of  Messina,  Robbers. 

Ghost-Seer.  Sport  of  Divinity,  Poems, 
Aestheiical  and  Philosophical  Kisfiys, 
&c.     By  various  translators.    7V0IS. 

Mary  Stuart   and  The   Maid   of 

Orleans.  Trans,  by  J.  Mdlish  and 
Anna  Swanwick.     u.  and  n.  6rf. 

Schlegel  (F.).  Lectures  and  Miscel- 
laneous Works.    5  vols.    3j.6rf.eath. 

(A.  W.}.      Lectures  on  Dramatic 

Art  and  Literature.     31.  6rf. 

Schopenhauer's  Essays.  Selected  and 
Trans,  by  E.  Belfort  an.     51 

On    the    Fourfold    Root    of    the 

Principle  of  Sufficient  Reason  and 
on  the  Will  in  Nature.  Trans,  by 
Mdme.  Hillebrand.     SJ. 

Echonw'B    Earth,    Plants,    and    Man. 

Trans,  by  A.  Henfrey.     51. 
Bchumann'B  Early  letters.    Trans,  by 

May  Herbert.     y.  6rf. 

Reissmann's  Life  of.     Trans,  by 

A.  L.  Alger.     31.  6rf. 

Benefits.    Trans,  by  Aubrey 


ut.     3. 


6rf. 


Essays  and  On  Cleirancy. 
Trans,  by  Aubrey  Stewart.     51. 
Sharpe'B   History  of  Egypt,      a  toIs. 

Sheridan's  Dramatic  Works,     y.  6rf. 

Plays,    ii.  and  u  6rf. 

ire  of  the  .South  of 
by  T.   Roscoc,     a 


Smith  (Adam).      Wealth  of  Nations. 

(Belfort  iiai.)    a  vols.     31.  b,l.  each. 
Theory     of     Moral     Sentiments. 

31.  6rf. 
Smith  (Pye).     Geology  and  Scrijiture. 


ALPHABETICAL  LIST  OF  BOHS"S  LIBRARIES. 


Eoioman's  Ecclesiastical  History.     5*. 

Epfnoia'a    Chief   Works.       Trans,    by 

R_  H.  M.  EIwcs,    a  vols.    51  each. 

Gtulay'c  Dutch  and  Flemish  Painters. 


Bt^Ung-aNobleDeedsoftt'orneo.  5/. 
■tauxton't  Chess  Players'  Handbook. 

Si.   Chess  Ptaris.    u.    Chess  Players' 

Companion.    5L    Chess  Tournament 

of  it; i.     51. 
StJckliaidt'i  Experimental  Chemistry. 

IHeaton.)    5.. 
Btrabo'a     Geography,       Trans,     by 

Falconer    and    Hamilton.       3    vols. 

is  of  England.      6 
Mary   Queen    of 


VOti, 


■ad  Sum 

Stuart     ft     Revett'i     Antiquities    of 

Athens,    si. 
luetonlus*  Uves  of  (he  Caesars  and  of 

rented  by  T.  Forester.     5». 


lolly's     Men 


Mrs.    Lennoi'! 


>.  revi  sed.    4  vols.    ; 
Tacitus,    The  Orford  i 

T 

Taeso'a  Jerusalem  Delivered.      Trans. 

by  J.  H.  Wiffen.     51. 
Taylor1»  Holy  Living  and  Holy  Dying. 

y.6A 

i.  Trans,  by  H.  T, 


L-iiley 


r,  J.Banks. 


Tfceo*OTet  and  Evagrius.     51. 
Thierry's  Norman  Conquest.    Trans. 

by  W.  Hailitt.    a  vols.    31.  6d.  each. 
Thucydides.  Trans  by  Rev.  H.  Dale. 

1  vols.    31.  6d.  each. 
Wheeler's  Analysis  and  Summary 

of.    y. 


tkespeare's    1 

Trans,  by  U  Dora  Schauta,     a  vols. 

31.  6tt.  each. 
Unci*  Tom's  Cabin.     31.  6t£ 
UWi    Cotton    Mannfactnre  of   Great 

Britain,     a  vols.     51.  each. 

Philosophy  of  Manufacture.  71.  id. 

Vasarl's  Lives  or  the  Painters.    Trans. 

by  Mrs.  Foster.    6  vols.    3]-.  6cf.  each. 
Ylrgll     Davidson's  Trans,  revised  by 

T.  A.  Buckley.     31.  dd. 
Voltaire's  Tales.      Trans,    by   R.   B. 

BosweU.     31.64 
Walton's  Angler.     51. 

Lives.     (A.  H.  Bullen.)    51. 

Waterloo    Days       By   C   A.    Eaton. 

n.  and  is.  64. 
Wellington.   Life  of.      By    -An   Old 

Soldier.'    51 


WestroprVs  Handbook  of  Archaeology. 

Wheatley.    On  the  Book  of  Common 

Prayer,     ar.  6£ 
Wheeler"!  Dictionary  of  Noted  Names 

of  Fiction.     s>. 
White'!  Natural  History  of  Selborne. 

5* 
Wieaelefs    Synopsis  of  the  Gospels. 

S* 
William  Of  MalmesbuTy's  Chronicle. 

5* 
Wright's  Dictionary  of  Obsolete  and 

Provincial  English.    2  vols.    51.  each. 
Xenophon.     Trans,  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Wat- 
son and  Rev.  H.  Dale.    3  vols.    51.  ea. 
Young's  Travels   in  France.   17B7-89. 

(M.  Betham-Edwards.)     3].  bd. 

Ireland,  1776-9.     (A.  W. 


Hutton.)    a  vols.     3«-  °*  ™b- 
Tula  Tide  Stories,     (a  Thorpe.)    51. 


I 

•Tbl 


Mow  KdlUoDi,  f 0»p.  810.  2i.  M.  «oh,  nit. 

HE    ALDINE   EDITION 
BRITISH    POETS. 

ion  of  tho  English  clansicp,  with  the! 


<:M.r:nV:'  whii-h  urn  j upt  now  no  njnch  too  common.' — St.  JhjiucbV  Oau-lU. 
*An  oiqflloDt  ueriDB.    Small,  hanrlj,  nnd  comrlcto.'— Safurrtay  Itoirta. 


Blake.    Edited  by  W.  M.  RoBSetti. 
Keats     Edited   by   the  late   Lord 

Houghton. 
Campbell.    Edited  by  bis  non-in- 

li.w.tli.)  IL.'i-.  A.  W.  Hill.   WitUMamoir 
by  W.  Alliog'bfl.m. 
Coleridge.    Edited   by    T.    Ashe, 


Raleigh  and  Wotton.     With  Se- 

Ira-liim*    rrdm    the   Wrillni»    of  othor 
("l-HIXV   PilET.-ifrom   1540  to  1650. 

D.C.L.     7 
Chatterton.    E.lited  by  the  Rev. 

W.  W.   Skast,  W.A.    2  rob. 
Kogers.    Edited  by  Edward  Bell, 

Herbert.   Edited  by  the  Rev.  A.  B. 

Groniu-t. 
Chaucer.  EditedbvDr.R.  Morria, 

with  Memoir  by  Sir  H.  Nlcolaa.  6  Tolb. 

Spenser.  Edited  by  J.  Payne  Col- 
lier, fi  rob. 

Dryden.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  R. 
Huouer,  M.4.    Svoli. 

Gray.    Ediled    by    J.    Bradahaw, 


Churchill.  Edited  by  Jan.  Cannay. 

Scott    Edited   by   John    Dennis, 

StoIi. 
Shelley.     Edited   by    H.    Bttston 

Fonuan.    5  vols. 
Prior.    Edited  by  R.  B.  Johnson. 

Words  wortn.      Edited    by    Piol 

Dowdon.    7 'Ola. 
Burns.     Edited  by  G.  A.  Aitken. 

Herrick.   Edited  by  George  Saints- 

bury.    2  volt. 
Butler.    Edited  byB.  B,  Johnson. 

Parnell.    Edited  by  G.  A.  Aitken. 

To  be  followed  by 
Goldsmith.      Edited    by    Austin 

Thomson.    Edited  by  the  Rev,  D. 

0.  Totoj.    2™ls. 
Collins.      Edited     by    W.     Moy 

Thomaa. 
Surrey.      Edited    by   J.    Gregory 


Swift.     Edited    by   the    Rev.    K, 
Cowper,    Edited  by  John  Bruce, 


The  only  authorized  asd  complbt»  'Wusth.' 
WEBSTER'S   INTERNATIONAL   DICTIONARY. 


•ntirely  New  Edition,  thoroughly  Revised,  considerably  Enlarged, 
and  reset  in  New  Type. 


Prices:   Clolh,  £i  us.  6d. ;   half-calf,  £i 

calf,  £a  Sa.      Also  ia  a  vols,  cloth, 

In  addition  to  the  Dictionary  of  Words,  with  their  p  ion  uncial  ion,  ety- 
mology, alternative  spellings,  and  various  meanings,  illustrated  hy  quotations 
and  numerous  woodcuts,  there  are  several  valuable  appendices,  comprising  a 
Pronouncing  Gazetteer  of  the  World  ;  Vocabularies  of  Scripture,  Greek,  Latin, 
and  English  Proper  Names ;  a  Dictionary  of  the  noted  Names  of  Fiction  ■  a 
Brief  History  of  the  English  Language  ;  a  Dictionary  of  Foreign  Quotations, 
Words,  Phrases,  Proverbs,  &c.  ;  a  Biographical  Dictionary  with  10,000 
Names,  &c. 

This  last  revision,  comprising  and  superseding  the  issues  of  1847,  1864, 
and  18S0,  is  by  far  the  most  complete  that  the  Work  has  undergone  during 
the  sixty-two  years  that  it  has  been  before  the  public  Every  page  has  been 
treated  as  if  tie  book  were  now  published  for  the  first  time. 


SOME  PRESS  OPINIONS  ON  THE  NEW  EDITION. 

'We  believe  that,  all  things  considered,  this  will  be  found  to  be  the  best 
existing  English  dictionary  in  one  volume.  We  do  not  know  of  any  work 
similar  in  size  and  price  which  can  approach  it  in  completeness  of  vocabulary, 
variety  of  information,  and  general  usefulness.' — Guardian, 

'The  most  comprehensive  and  the  roost  useful  of  its  kind.' — National 
Observer, 

"A  magnificent  edition  of  Webster's  immortal  Dictionary.'  —  Daily 
Telegraph. 

'  A  thoroughly  practical  and  useful  dictionary. 'Standard, 

'  A  special  feature  of  the  present  book  is  the  lavish  use  of  engravings, 
which  at  once  illustrate  the  verbal  explanations  of  technical  and  scientific 
terms,  and  permit  them  to  remain  readably  brief.  It  may  be  enough  to  refer 
to  the  article  on  "  Cross."  Hy  the  use  of  the  little  numbered  diagrams  we  me 
sparud  what  would  have  become  a  treatise,  and  not  a  very  clear  one.  .  .  . 
We  recommend  the  new  Webster  to  every  roan  of  business,  every  father  of  1 
family,  every  teacher,  and  almost  every  student — to  everybody,  in  fact,  who  is 
likely  to  be  posed  at  an  unfamiliar  or  half-understood  word  or  phrase.'— 
St.  lames' s  Gazette. 

Prospectuses,  with  Specimen  Pages,  on  application. 
London ;  GEORGE  BELL  &  SONS,  York  Street,  Covin!  Garden. 


i 


